Colonel Durnford... William Vereker. I hear you 've been seeking Officers?
Good ones, yes, Mr Vereker. Gentlemen who can ride and shoot
Your orders, Mr Vereker?
I'm to take the Sikali with the main column to the river
Lord Chelmsford seems to want me to stay back with my Basutos.
I think Chelmsford wants a good man on the border Why he fears a flanking attack and requires a steady Commander in reserve.
Well I assure you, Sir, I have no desire to create difficulties. 45
And I assure you, you do not In fact I'd be obliged for your best advice. What have your scouts seen?
So far only their scouts. But we have had reports of a small Impi farther north, over there.
Lighting COGHILL' 5 cigar: Our good Colonel Dumford scored quite a coup with the Sikali Horse.
Um. There are rumours that my Lord Chelmsford intends to make Durnford Second in Command.
Well that's typical of Her Majesty's army. Appoint an engineer to do a soldier's work.
Do you think she might be interested in someone?
Which one?
Well that one. The one who keeps looking at me.
ft could be you flatter yourself CoghilL It's that odd eye.
Choose your targets men. That's right Watch those markers. 55
Keep steady. You're the best shots of the TwentyFourth. You bunch of heathens, do it
Stuart?
Yes.
How quickly can you move your artillery forward?
Well, my horses are feeding, as you may observe, Mr Coghill. It'll take a little while.
Well, fed or hungry, Pulleine wants them in position immediately. .
Right. Bombardier, to me please.
Yes. I see you've issued each of them with a Martini Henry Carbine. Our quota for Native contingencies: one rifle to ten men and only five rounds per rifle.
But will they make good use of them?
What's that strange name the newspaper chap's called?
Er, called Noggs, Sir Actual name is NorrisNewman. He presented credentials from "The Standard".
Our runners bare his dispatches, do they not?
The only reports of enemy activity have come from the direction of the Royal Kraal, at Ulundi.
Thank you.
Yes?
A large party of Zulus have been sighted in the direction of the King's KraaL Getting up, CHELMSFORD moves over to look at the map on his desk.
Splendid site, Crealock, splendil I want to establish Camp here immediately.
Certainly, Sin
Splendid horsemanship Who are they?
Sikali Horse, My Lord. Christians alL I know each one by name.
They come well recommended do they? DURNFORD
Oh... indeed. Crealock, we should see that Colonel Dumford has an Officer for his hard riders. Perhaps a subaltern from the Twenty Fourth.
I thought it might be more effective to find someone who speaks Zulu.
Excellent. Thank you. Give them to Crealock, would you?
My Lord. This list was prepared for you. I don 't think another can understand its true value.
You intended to bring your reserves across the river?
I have received intelligence from, sources of my own that the Zulu Impis are moving North of here and threaten your left.
Intelligence? Sources of your own? Did it not occur to you they may be native rumours? Rumours to draw you off to leave the whole ofNatal open to a possible counter thrust
Are you dictating the strategy of this war, Sir?
I'm explaining my reasons.
Tomorrow we will continue our advance on Ulundi. Dumford, kindly return to your unit Bring them here immediately to support Pulleine. Mr Vereker will join you as ADC. Do you understand me clearly?
And the threat of counter invasion no longer exists? 40
An historical moment, Gentlemen.
Excuse me, My Lord. NorrisNewman, of "The Standard", My Lord.
1 saw you lead our Cavalry sir
Indeedldid, MyLord. Itwas one ofthe first to cross.
Were they in good heart as they entered enemy territory?
They spurred onto high ground, My Lord, full of spirit and looking for the Zulu. Full of sport they were, My Lord.
Tell what you see. Write it well, Sir, and make sure you get it right
If I've got it right, My Lord, you lead an invasion into Zululand, for I see it all around me, but "why?" is the question my readers will ask. "why?"
Do not confuse yourse{fi Why? We must strike a heavy blow. This cannot be a war of manoeuvre.
So attack is your defence. Well let's hope Cetshwayo will offer his Impis full destruction.
My only fear is that the Zulu will avoid the engagement
What o'clock is it, Mr Noggs?
Eleven o'clock, My LorJ 42
Our friend Colonel Dumford will be should be at this minute approaching Pulleine. I think we'll eat here. I want to scout that mountain top and be back with an appetite in one hour. .
Will you hear "Last Post", Sir?
I listened extra careful to your "Stand To" this mornin', Boy. ft was peifecL I couldn't 've done it better meseif, not even when I was Bugler to The Duke Of Wellington.. .now tell me, where did you get that black eye?
From the Cook, Sir They saw me dip your shaving tin in the teawater this morning, made their tea taste of Lifebuoy toilet soap, they saij Handing him the bottle of gin he purloined earlier. 2t
So, you got it in the line of dooty.. ... point taken.
Will we be fighting the Zulus soo~, Quartermaster? .
Could be. Across the river into Zululand. . They might just be waiting there for us to show up... .them stabbing assegais pointing right at our bellies!....
You afeared of the Zulus then, Quartermaster?
One Zulu is only one man.. ..and I'm afeared of no one man... but the Zulu, they come in the thousands.... like a black wave of death.... in the thousands.... and them assegais.... stabbing!
Why don 't the Zulus attack?
Zulu may not wear shoes or trousers and the like but it don 't mean to say they got no brains. They'll watch us and wait and find our weaknesses.
Yes, sir, name, please?
Food!
Do you have a reservation?
Food!!
I'm sorry, sir. We only seat by reservation.
Drink!
Oh, no siree. If yo don't have a reservation you can skip to maloo.
Foooooood!
Now just one moment. There's no need for roughhousing. Have you ever tried a tip?
GRRRHMMNNNJKJMMMNN!
Franz! Help! Lunatic!
No, not sound.
There must have been someone else down here then.
His what??
His schwanzstucker.
Whew! A nineteeninch drill.
It's working! Oh, Doctor  you play beautifully.
Do you know the theme from 'Doctor Zhivago'?
I'm getting tired.
Why don't we all turn in? It's been a long day.
Look how far we've come.
You can't expect to iron out all the kinks in one night.
I think the doctor is a genius! Don't you, Igor?
Why certainly. Don't you, Frau Blucher?
How do you know they're done?
The doctor said to allow seven minutes: no more and no less  or else they could both become hopelessly paralyzed.
How long is it so far?
Four
Three minutes to go!
Yes.
What d'ya want to do to kill time?
Oh, Igor  I'm so afraid! I just hope this all ends well.
Igor  are you sure the monster has a good brain? Are you absolutely certain that you took the brain of Hans Delbruck that night?
Absolutely! May my mother grow two heads if I'm not telling the truth.
INGA +++$+++
Sounds like visitors. It's all right  Frau Blucher will show them in.
Oh, must be around ten... tenthirty.
Igor  the clock! Hurry!
Another fifteen seconds to go.
Do Something! Stall them!
Extremely well.
How nice.
Did you have a pleasant trip?
Yes, thank you. It wasn't bad.
Did you ever have a roll in the hay?
I'm not sure I...get your drift.
Sometimes I'm afraid of the lightning.
Just an atmospheric discharge. Nothing to be afraid of.
Are you busy?
That's quite all right. What is it, dear?
Could I lie down in your bed for a little while? I just can't sleep.
We only arrived a few minutes ago.
I know, but usually I can fall asleep right away. It must be the strange room.
Well...
Oh please  just till I get sleepy. Then you can force me right back to my room.
Well.. I suppose it would be all right, for just a little while.
Would you like a sandwich?
No, thanks! I want to get right to sleep.
Well... I'll just finish unpacking.
Inga!
Yes, you may... but don't make any noise.
Inga, wake up!
What is it? Is something wrong, Doctor?
Listen! Don't you hear that strange music?
Yes! What could it be at this hour?
I don't know. It just woke me up.
Dr. Fronkonsteen  look!
Whatever it is, it's coming from down there. I'm going down to see.
Let me come with you, Doctor, please! I don't want to stay up here alone.
All right then, quietly! Close your robe and stay right behind me. Don't make a sound!
Ooh!
What a filthy mess.
Look, Doctor!
Well, this explains the music.
But who was playing it?
Oh, doctor!
Perhaps we'd better leave.
'As the minuteness of the parts formed a great hindrance to my speed, I resolved to make the Creature of a gigantic stature.' Of course! That would simplify everything.
And look at this, Doctor!
'Dilation of his sacral parasympathetic impulses would cause an increase in flow of blood and the erection to approximately nineteen inches of his apparatus genitals.'
Soon, all the electrical secrets of Heaven shall be mine.
Oh, Frederick... you're not only a great doctor, you're a great... you're almost a...
A god?
Yes!
I know.
Right here?
Raise the platform, hurry!
Oh! Yes, Doctor.
Reputation. Reputation!
I thought it was wonderful.
I don't understand  I followed the notes to the letter.
It wasn't me.
Look here  if it wasn't you, and it wasn't you, and it wasn't me...
Oh, Doctor!
I think you've done it, master.
Alive! Look at it. I have defeated death!
It looks that way.
What do you think we should do?
What are you going to do?
I think I'll...carry him.
Do you think you can sing it?
Me? Sing?
Yes  quickly, dear!
I'd be so nervous.
This is not the finals  just sing!
It's something daring, 'The Continental,' A way of dancing that's really ultra new; It's very subtle, 'The Continental.'
It has a passion, 'The Conti nental...'
Stop  singing!!!
All right  give it to him!
Are you serious??
Give him the sedative!
Oh! Yes, Doctor.
Did you do it?
I think so.
Good! It shouldn't take more than a few seconds.
Good night, Doctor.
Good night!
Why, doctor...how wonderful for you.
Wonderful? It's terrible! Terrible, terrible, terrible, terrible, terrible!
Just passing through the night.
What's wrong, Doctor? You seem... lonely.
Oh, a little. But it's not just physical loneliness. It's the pangs that come from missing someone intellectually... as I have you.
I've missed you intellectually, too, Doctor.
It's terrible  the price society demands in the name of fidelity... ultimately?
Not fooling around.
I know, but I mean  not fooling around physically?... Or not fooling around intellectually?
I see what you mean.
There can never... ever... be anything physical between us. You know that, dear.
I know Frederick.
It wouldn't be fair to Elizabeth.
Of course not.
What?
I say, it wouldn't be fair to you... or to me.
Nor to Elizabeth.
No. Nor to Elizabeth.
We all have our feelings. I know that I have mine. And... I wouldn't want to hurt yours.
And Elizabeth has hers.
Yes, Elizabeth has hers.
But, after all, you have yours.
Yes, I have mine.
And I have mine.
Yes...yes, you have yours.
Why don't we talk inside?
Well... ... perhaps for a few minutes.
Yes, I know.
It wouldn't be fair to her.
Yes, I know.
You've got to help me to remain faithful.
Yes, I will.
...But an intellectual relationship, like this  we could have as often as we wanted. Three times a day  anything!
All right if I turn out the lamp, sweetheart?
MMmmm.
MMMMmmmmm!
Yes, sweetie...I heard you. So! I'm ready for you, meine Liebe.
Are you ready for me?
MMMMmmmmm!
Ready for Fuchsmachen???
MMMMMMmmmmmmmmm!
I love it when you're excited. Come then, my Apfelstrudel! Come into my arms and let me hold you.
Sweetheart.....Is this really you???
MMMMMMMMMMMMMMmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm!
What's that tune that you're playing
Zis is an old Transylvanian Lullaby.
How sweet! Such a quaint little tune.
May I see your violin?
It's an honor for me, sir. You play the violin?
Oh, just a little.
Nice! Nice little balance to it.
Ja, ja.
MMMMMMMMMMMMMNNNNNNmmmmmmmm?!?
It's alive!
Hello there.
MMMMMmmmmmmm.
How's everything?
MMMmmmmmmmm.
I'm going to untie you  can you understand that?
MMMmmmm! MMMmmmm!
Yes, I'm going to set you free. Is the sedative ready?
It's alive. It's  moving! It's  breathing! It's  standing! What is your name?
... It's.
Get the sedative ready!
MMmmm! MMmmm!
Poo  tmmm anngh ma Ritz!
Diff'rent types who wear a day coat, pants with stripes and cutaway coat, perfect fits.........................
Poo  tmmm anngh ma Ritz!
Dressed up like a million dollar trouper Trying hard to look like Gary Cooper.
Soo  pah doo  per.
MMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMmmmmm.
...Super duper. Come let's mix where Rock efellers walk with sticks or 'umber ellas' in their mitts.........................
MMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMmmmmmmmmmmm!
For God's sake  go on! Are you trying to make me look like a fool. Sing, you amateur! Sing!!
MMMMMMMMMM! MMMMMMMMMMMM!
Wait! Stop! Don't give them the satisfaction. I know it's tough, but look at how far we've come! Are you going to throw it all away now??
MMMmmmmmm.
Don't you think I know that? But what are you judging by? Bucharest??? This was always a hick town. They can't get a 'Bus and Truck' company to come in here. Are you going to let these idiots get the best of you? ...Or are you going to stand up like a man and show them that you've got more dignity in your little finger than they've got in all their beer bloated bodies put together?
Frederick Frankenstein?
Fron kon steen!
Are you putting me on?
No, it's pronounced Fron kon steen.
And do you also say Fro dereck?
No, Fred ereck.
Why isn't it Frodereck Fronkon steen?
It's not. It's Fredereck Fronkonsteen.
I see.
You must be Igor.
No, it's pronounced Aye gor.
But they told me it was Ee gor.
Well, they were wrong then, weren't they?
You were sent by Herr Falkstein, weren't you?
Yes, that's right. My grandfather and your grandfather used to pal around together. You and I should have a lot of laughs.
I'm sure we will.
This is Inga. They thought you might need an assistant temporarily.
How do you do?
Are these your bags?
Yes, just the two.
Incidentally  I don't mean to embarrass you in any way, but I'm a rather brilliant surgeon. Perhaps I can help you with that hump.
What hump?
There.
I beg your pardon?
There wolf! There castle!
Why are you talking like that?
I thought you wanted to.
No.
Suit yourself...I'm easy. Better watch out for the wockers.
What wockers?
The wockers with the knockers.
Wockers with the knockers???
Go ahead, play dumb! You'll lose your sockers and then be fockers.
Home!
Home.
Down! Get down, you beasts!
I wonder what's got into them?
Ayegor!
Froderick!
What are you doing here?
I got frightened all alone upstairs, so I came down here.
But what you were doing?
Just putting up some tea.
Did you hear that strange music?
What?
Did you hear that strange music??
What?
Did you hear that strange music?
It seems that way. You didn't hear any music at all?
What?
You didn't hear... nothing! Aren't there any lights in this place?
Two switches over there, but I wasn't going to be the first.
Did you see anyone else down here?
No, but when I first came in, there was a light coming from behind that steel door.
What is this place?
Must be the music room.
It is! This was my grandfather's private library. Look at this!
'How I Did It.' Good title!
Funny it should just be lying out here on the table. I wonder what kind of dribble this is?
Taking the book along?
Yes, I think we could all use a good laugh.
What a filthy job!
Could be worse!
How?
Could be raining!
Very little decay. With this magnificent specimen for a body, all we need now is an equally magnificent brain. You know what to do!
I have a pretty good idea.
Do you have the name I wrote down?
Yes. Dr. H. Delbruck.
I want that brain.
Was he any good?
Was he any good??? He was the finest natural philosopher, internal medicine diagnostician and chemical therapist of this century.
Hmm!
And he wrote seventeen cookbooks.
That's not bad.
Can you imagine that brain in this body?
I'm getting excited just thinking about it. What if he's not there?
He only died two weeks ago  I'm sure they'll still have him. Hurry now. I'll prepare the body.
Oh! May I call you 'Master'?
Why?
It's always been one of my favorite names.
If you like  just hurry!
Thank you, Master.
You're sure you know what you're doing?
Yes! It's all written down in the notes. Tie off the kites and come down!
Yes, master. Just don't turn on any radios.
You'd better hurry  I think it's going to rain.
All right... elevate me!
The ancient masters promised impossibilities and performed nothing. We shall penetrate into the recesses of nature. We shall ascend into the Heavens. We shall command the thunders of Heaven, mimic the earthquake and even mock the invisible world with its own shadows.
Tonight?
Yes! When I give the word  throw the first switch!
You've got it, master.
Throw the second switch!
This guy means business.
It's not enough. More! More, do you hear me?
What?
More, do you hear me?
What?
Throw the third switch!
Wait till he sees the bill.
You can't win 'em all.
But there must be a reason. This is science, not art.
Cold! Cold and dead!
You mustn't take it so hard. Bucharest wasn't built in a day.
Don't try to cheer me up that way.
Well, I don't like to see you mope.
You'll be getting me sad next.
I'm sorry. I don't mean to take out my frustration on you. You've been a great help to me, and I've let you down.
I'm not that sort you know. I appreciate you feelings, but try to show them some other way.
You're right! Selfpity never got anyone anywhere. Let's go back and finish our dinner.
Oh, do you like it? I'm not partial to desserts, but this is excellent.
Who are you talking to?
To you! You just made a 'yummy' sound, so I thought you liked the dessert.
I didn't make a 'yummy' sound  I just asked what it was.
But you did  I just heard it.
It wasn't me.
Better not get too close, master. This guy could kill you.
I suppose you're right. Inga! Prepare a sedative, just in case.
It's trying to talk. it wants us to take off the straps.
Don't fall for that one.
But don't you see...the brain of Hans Delbruck is inside this grotesque hulk  pleading with us. I've got to untie it.
careful, master  you never can tell with these chaps.
Original.
Give  me  your  hand!
Whew! I'm glad that's over with.
You can say that again.
Yes.
You're just supposed to repeat what you said.
Why?
What's the point of my setup? It's not funny unless you repeat exactly what you said.
I'm not trying to be funny.
Repeat it anyway  it's a wonderful cue.
... I'm glad that's...
No, no! That whole thing!
... Whew! I'm glad that's over with.
It seem to have stopped the big fellow in his tracks.
Ayegor! Find out where that music is coming from as quietly and as blindingly fast as you can.
Yes, Master!
Act casual!
How's it going?
What did you find out?
Someone was playing this in the music room.
Where is he?
How do you know it was a 'he'?
All right  where is she?
How do you know it was a 'she'?
Bring  me  the  violin!
Can you play it?
Maybe...if you get here on time.
Thanks...for all your help.
That's what we're paid for.
I'm a failure.
Come on, Froderick  none of that.
What monster?
What d'ya mean "What monster?' You remember...the one we madein the basement.
You don't understand, Master. The big fellow's broken in and kidnapped your fiancee.
What???
He's carrying her off now through the woods.
No! The only hope now is to get him back here. If I can just find a way to relieve the pressure on his cerebellum...
That sound good, boss.
... and equalize the imbalance in his cerebrospinal fluid...
I like your style, master. How do we get him here?
There's only one way.
I'll bet it's a doozy.
Come on, big fellow!
Is everything ready?
Yes, master. Are you sure you want to go through with it?
It's the only way.
Okay, boss! But I hope you know what you're doing.
That's 'Fronkonsteen.'
I beg your pardon?
My name is pronounced Fron kon steen.
Oh! I thought it was Dr. Frankenstein.
No, it's Dr. Fronkonsteen!
But aren't you the grandson of the famous Dr. Victor Frankenstein?... who performed such fascinating experiments in electricity and galvanism?
That's true! But my grandfather, Victor was, after all, what we might politely refer to as... a cuckoo!
I prefer, by far, to be remembered for my own small contributions to science. Now if we can proceed to your questions.
Well sir... I'm not sure I understand the distinction between 'Reflexive' and 'Voluntary' nerve impulses.
Very good! Since our lab work today is a demonstration of just that distinction... why don't we proceed?
In conclusion... it should be noted that more than common injury to the nerve roots is always serious, because... once a nerve fibber is severed... there is no way to regenerate life back into it. Are there any more questions before we leave?
Dr. Fronkonsteen!
Yes?
Isn't it true that Darwin preserved a piece of vermicelli in a glass case until, by some extraordinary means, it actually began to move with voluntary motion?
A piece of what?
Vermicelli.
Are you speaking of the worm, or ... the spaghetti.
But wasn't that the whole basis of your grandfathers work, sir...? the reanimation of component parts?
My father was a sick man.
But aren't you the least bit curious about it, Doctor? Doesn't the secret of life hold any intrigue for you?
You are talking about the gibberish ravings of a lunatic mind.
Yes, but, sir... if it could be accomplished, wouldn't that eliminate disease from the human frame and render man invulnerable to any but a violent death?
How old are you, young man?
Nineteen, sir.
Nineteen! My dear young man... once the human organism has ceased to function, nature has deemed that creature to be dead.
But look at what's been done with hearts and kidneys!
Hearts and kidneys are Tinker Toys! I'm talking about the Central Nervous System.
But, sir...
I am a scientist...! not a philosopher.
You have more chance of reanimating this knife than you have of mending a broken nervous system,
But your grandfather's work, sir...
My grandfather's work was DooDoo! Dead is Dead! There's only one thing I am interested in... and that is the preservation of LIFE!
Dr. Frankenstein?
Fron kon steen!
My name is Gerhart Falkstein.
Oh, at least, sir. The land alone is worth a small fortune.
But I can't just drop everything and leave. I have responsibilities and obligations.
Do you have a hundred thousand of them, sir?
How long will this whole thing take?
A week. Ten days at most.
I'll have to think it over. It's not so easy just to pick up and...
Well... if you're sure that I could accomplish everything in a week... I suppose I could manage it.
Why did you do that?
What?
Break that old man's violin.
I didn't do that.
The old violinist  you smashed his violin over your knee.
All right then, I suppose I owe the family that much. You'll have everything ready for me when I arrive?
Yes, sir.
One week at the most!?
One week  I'll see to it, sir.
Well, thank you very much for all your trouble.
Not at all  a great privilege, Doctor.
Saturday night then! I'll take the train to New York and fly from there.
Saturday night, yes, sir. Have a pleasant journey!
I hope you find this comfortable. This was Baron Victor's room.
It seems fine.
You'll fine the keys to all the rooms in my cas... all the rooms in your castle on this ring. I'll leave it on the table here.
Does that include the key to the laboratory?
You mean... the laboratory??
Yes!... the laboratory.
No! Dr. Frankenstein always kept that separate.
May I have it, please?
There seem to be quite a few books.
Yes, this was Victor's... the Baron's medical library.
I see. And where is my grandfather's private library?
I don't know what you mean, sir.
well, there was a public and a private library  he said so in his will. these books are all very general  any doctor might have them in his study.
This is the only library I know of.
Surely he kept his notes  his private papers and records in some other place?
I think you must be mistaken, sir.
Well... we'll see.
Will there be anything else?
I don't think so. Is my assistant taken care of?
I put her in the guest room, just down the hall.
Good.
What are you waiting around for, pickle puss?
This wire came while you were gone. Your fiancee will be arriving any moment.
Elizabeth!?! 'Can't waits any longer. Arrive in your arms at ten tonight.' Oh, God! Not tonight.
Darling!...you will be careful!?
Of course.
You have your tickets?
Yes.
And your passport?
Yes, don't worry.
Call me from New York before you leave??
Yes.
Promise??
I promise.
Oh, darling  I'll count the hours that you're away.
Oh, darling  so will I.
Will you miss me?
Very....very!
Mother's going to help me with the invitations.
Oh, nice.
I hope you like large weddings.
Whatever makes you happy.
I've trimmed the list to only our very closest friends...but it still comes to three thousand.
You're incorrigible!
Does that mean you love me?
You bet your boots it does.
I will! Goodbye, darling!
Goodbye, darling.
Goodbye, darling.
Goodbye, darling!
Darling!
Darling!
Surprised?
Surprised!
Love me?
Love you! ...Well, why don't we turn in?
Darling!?!
I mean, it's been a long day. I'm sure you must be as tired as I am. Oh! These are my assistants: Inga and Ayegor.
Ready, darling?
Yes. I am a bit tired, after all.
Give me a hand with these, will you, Ayegor?
What a strange fellow.
Yes, he's a little bit... tilted. Harmless, though.
Why does he call you 'master'?
Are you suggesting I call him master???
No, of course not. I just meant...
All right then!
Poor Delbruck! There must be some way to reach him  to control that body.
Darling, you mustn't worry so.
But there's a genius inside that body  crying out for love and understanding and normal human relationships. I just have to find some way to reestablish his communications system.
But you can't do that at night. And even if you could  it would cost a fortune. Come to bed, darling.
Oh, Delbruck, Delbruck. Was will dien tachlas von Dir?
You've done everything that's humanly possible, Frederick. Oh, darling, I'm so worried about you  you need rest.
I suppose you're right.
Of course I am. Now come along like a good boy.
Is your room just down the hall? ... in case I get frightened during the night?
Yes, but... I thought, perhaps tonight, under the circumstances, I might... stay here with you.
Oh, darling! Don't let's spoil everything.
I don't want to spoil anything  I just want to top it all off.
Would you want me, now, like this, so soon before our wedding? ... So near we can almost touch it? Or wait a little while longer, when I can give myself without hesitation?... When I can be totally and unashamedly yours??
That's a tough choice.
Is it worth taking a chance?
I suppose you're right.
Of course I am. Now give me a kiss and say good night like my good boy.
Good night.
That's my good boy.
Darling!
Hello...?
Surprised?
Well... yes.
Miss me?
I...
What in God's name are you doing?
Baack!
What?
Baack!
You're incorrigible!... Aren't you?
MMMmmmm.
All right then... seven's always been my lucky number.
MMMmm!
Is it that music?
MMMMM! MMMMM!
Probably just some nearby cottage. Nothing to worry about.
Did you see?...I put a special hamper in the bathroom just for your shirts. the other one is just for socks and poopoo undies.
MMmmm.
Still happy you married me?
MMmmm.
Love me oodles and oodles?
MMmmm.
So this is what it's like to be completely happy!
MMmmm.
Herr Falkstein! Did you inform Frederick Frankenstein of this assembly and all the particulars of the time and place?
I did, sir.
But I received a cable only this morning, saying that he could not come.
Was he aware of the importance of this occasion?
Yes, sir, he was. But he said he was obligated to lecture at Johns Hopkins University.
What lecture could be more important than the will of Baron Beaufort Frankenstein?
'Functional areas of the cerebrum in relation to the skull.'
Herr Falkstein! You have your instructions!
Yes, sir.
I have taken an oath that each letter of this testament shall be executed...and by God, it shall be done!
Where did you get this cauliflower?
From your office, sir.
Didn't you prepare it with the celery before my lecture?
Yes, sir. But I must have taken the wrong one when we came up.
Are you trying to make me look like an idiot?
No, sir. It will never happen again.
Here! This cauliflower is useless to me.
Give him an extra dollar.
Yes, sir.
Yes, sir.
He has a big mouth. Yes! It seems to me I did read something about that incident as a student. But you have to remember that a worm  with very few exceptions  is not a human being.
Carlson!
Yes, sir?
Bring me some surgical gauze, a little tape and some disinfectant.
Yes, sir. Do you want the other cauliflower?
... No!
Frederick Frankenstein?
You have the wrong house.
And who might you be?
Dr. Frederick Fronkonsteen.
The grandson of Victor 'Fronkonsteen'?
No!
What was your grandfather's name?
Victor Frankenstein.
Forgive me for intruding so late at night, Herr Baron. But an ugly rumor has it that there are strange goings on in this castle. These good citizens are ready to rip you from limb to limb unless you can offer some rational explanation for their fears. How say you?
Ugly, vicious rumous.
They say, also, that you have recreated the horrible monster who, for so many years, has haunted and terrorized the Godfearing people of this village. What say you to that?
Poppycock!
I think we all need a good night's sleep. Why don't we meet next week and thrash this thing out?
Now wait a minute!
Excuse me, Mr. Waldman  excuse me for interrupting. But is Frederick, then...a medical doctor?
Yes, my dear, he is.
And has he achieved...any special degree of eminence?
He is the fifth leading authority in his field.
Oh, shit.
Herr Falkstein  you must go at once and present Dr. Frankenstein with all the details of his inheritance. The estate will provide for your journey.
I'll never understand your regard for them, Charles.
And I'll never understand terrorists.
I am trying to save our kind, Charles. You should do the same.
Not at the cost of lives, Max.
The two in Alaska. Just how do you people manage to be in the right place at the right time? Still tinkering with Cerebro?
What do you want with him?
Is that so?
Still trying to make the world safe for our kind. Still trying to find a way to introduce ourselves  definitively.
You definition of definitive was always a bit extreme for me, Max. What is it like these days?
Let's just say that I am out to make some radical changes. Now come on Charles. For old times sake, for your sake... Leave him to me.
If I could make you understand. If you could just be made to see it the way I do. The way it's going to be.
The way what is going to be?
I'm going to change the world with or without you as a witness, Charles. And this one gets a front row seat.
What do you mean to do?
This checkmate goes to you. I didn't want to hurt anyone. But you leave me no choice.
WHAT DO YOU MEAN TO DO?
I wouldn't really have let you die, you know. I just needed...
I know.
Doesn't it ever wake you in the middle of the night? The feeling that some day, some day very soon, they will pass that foolish law  or one just like it  and they will come for you and your children? Take you all away?
It does indeed, Max.
And what do you do when you wake up to that?
I feel a great swell of pity for the poor soul who comes to that school again looking for trouble.
I lost him.
How?
It was Xavier's people. They knew.
Is that what you're looking for?
A piece. Only a piece.
Is it enough?
Enough for a test.
I'll find him.
ALIVE.
Why is everybody up at sunrise?
The sun is setting, Logan. You've been asleep for nineteen hours.
What did she do to me?
She borrowed your power to save her life. When she touches someone, she absorbs their strengths  their gifts. In your case  your ability to heal. That's why she keeps her body covered.
I felt like she almost killed me.
If she held on any longer she could have.
And you think it helps calling her Rogue?
What am I doing here?
I brought you here so that you would be safe from Magneto.
Who?
A very powerful mutant who for some reason has taken an interest in you. I'm not sure why, but until we find out, I must ask you to stay.
Fortyeight hours, old man. But if you cross me, I won't feel any guilt about what I do to you.
Deal.
The point of what?
This. This whole God damn thing. Making yourselves into some sort of "team" of superpowered freaks. Teaching wayward mutants about classical literature. For what?
The point is to step into a more evolved position of social responsibility. To recognize that there is a world out there and that we mutants are as much a part of it as normal human beings.
What if it never happens? What if they're so afraid of us that we become the enemy?  This place is gonna be one giant cemetery.
Now that's Magneto talking.
No. That's me talking. And you know what? It's only been thirtytwo hours and you still have no idea what this guy wants with me.
I believe he wants you for your Adamantium.
Where are we going?
To find Rogue.
How?
The brainwaves of mutants are quite different than those of the average human being.
You designed this yourself?
Actually, Magneto helped me put it together.
He helped you?
We were friends once... But that was a long time ago.
I've found her, Westchester Mall.
I'll go.
Don't you knock?
They're all asking how you're doing. Are you feeling up to saying hello to everyone?
Actually I'm feeling up to leaving.
Why? You have a home here now, if you want it. Everyone will...
What?... miss me? Charley, I'm gonna walk out the front door and trust me, it won't be soon enough for everyone here.
I do love a good check mate.
What do you want?
Come with me and I'll let her live.
You think I care about her? I'm the only one who's sure to walk out of here.
Where am I?
You're backstage at the encore of creation.
What are you going to do?
In the road to survival, there is always sacrifice Logan. We are the future... not them. We must protect ourselves. After tonight, when the leaders of the world return home  They will return as brothers, as mutants... and our cause will be theirs. This is survival, I know you understand that, Logan... or is it Wolverine?
You... wha... Who are you... Where is Henry?
Mr. Guyrich has been dead for some time Senator.
You mutant bastards...
Whatever you do to me... no matter what you'll make me right. Every word I have spoken will be confirmed.
Gosh, I hope so.
The intention of registration act 
INTENTION? Intention, Senator? We are talking about mankind here. His fear. It is only a matter of time before mutants will be herded into camps. Studied for weaknesses. And eventually wiped off the face of the Earth.
What is it you intend to do to me?
Let's just say, God works too slowly.
You're avoiding the question I posed to you at the beginning of the hearing, Ms. Grey. Three words: Are mutants dangerous?
I am avoiding a question that is decidedly loaded, Senator. The wrong person behind the wheel of a car can be dangerous.
Ms. Grey  you work at a school for mutants in Westchester, New York. Can you tell the members of this committee what exactly you are teaching these mutants?
Math. History. Science. English. Athletics 
You wouldn't happen to be teaching them how to use their powers to 
Control, Senator... we teach them control.
This was taken by a state police officer in Secaucus, New Jersey. A man in a minor altercation literally melted the car in front of him. I don't know where you come from, Ms. Grey, but where I come from, you don't go melting people's cars when they cut you off. You do it the old fashioned way  you give 'em the finger. But what you presume to tell this committee 
I presume nothing, I am here to tell you that in time, the mutator gene will activate in every living human being on this planet. Perhaps even your children, Senator.
I can assure you, there is no such creature in my genes.
Dr. Grey.
Senator?
I'm sorry to come here, Ms. Grey. I was afraid if I went to a hospital, they would...
Treat you like a mutant? We are not what you think. Not all of us.
Tell it to the ones that did this to me.
The mutant gene tells the body when it needs to change.
I can assure you, there is no such creature in my genes.
Anything else I can get you?
Some cigars. Case of beer.
There's no smoking or drinking on the school grounds.
I won't light the cigars  how about that?
I'll see what I can do  You should get some sleep. Even with your healing ability, you're going to be hurting for a while.
What if I like the pain?
The Professor said you were a solider. Actually, I believe he used the word mercenary.
Yeah? Well I don't like to talk about my past.
Maybe, the Professor could help you with that.
By reading my thoughts?
If necessary.
What if they're naughty?
You should always work with a spotter.
He's busy right now.
I was thinking maybe you and me could go into town.
Were you now?
What do you say?
Not interested.
Let go.
Suit yourself.
He's uptight.
He takes his work seriously.
He takes himself seriously.
What is it you're failing to get at? Are you interested in me?
Logan, do you see this ring?
I've seen a lot of rings.
Yeah, I'll bet you have.
Inspiring  Now what am I doing here?
I wanted to talk to you.
How long have you been in Alaska?
I don't remember. Is that what you wanted to ask me?
I've served with men like you before. Methodical. Systematic  Naive. You know what happens to those men in a real fight?
You know, you 
Shut up. I got no interest in you, Xavier, or your... XMen.
I'm o.k. I'm o.k.
Sure you are, sport.
Scott.. I 
I don't like him being here.
What are you talking about?
You saw what happened tonight. You think Magneto won't come after him again. You think he won't come here if necessary. This is a school, for God's sake.
If Magneto is planning to use Logan for some terrible purpose it's our responsibility to do something.
What's wrong with him?
His vital signs are weak and getting weaker.
He's already losing control of his vitals. Respiratory. Cardiovascular. Unless we manage to replace the filter by tomorrow morning, I'm afraid.
We have to find Magneto.
Are you all right?
No. I'm... I don't know if we can do this without Charles.
Hey. I'm sorry. About Logan. I was jealous.
Well, I think that's perfectly understandable.
I'll tell you one thing though.
What's that?
He calls me sport one more time, and I'll blow a watermelonsized hole through him.
Radar Stealth Mode checks out. All right, there'll be less security north of the George Washington Bridge. I'm taking her down.
Into the Hudson?
Uhhuh.
I'm going to assume that means that the Secret Service is out of commission. Jean, can you raise me up there?
It's too far.
Storm, Rogue,  you take the south entrance. Jean and I will go in here.
Jean... can you?
I'm sorry. I'm not strong enough.
Can the Professor repair his own mind?
I'm afraid without Cerebro's help, he won't have the strength to heal himself  And without the neuro filter... there's no Cerebro.
It appears as though Magneto has built a machine which somehow triggers the mutator gene in normal human beings. And he is using Adamantium as its core.
Its core?
Correct... Apparently, Adamantium is the only metal strong enough to hold the energy this machine produces. He used the Adamantium in Logan's dog tag to test it on the Senator. And I assume now he plans to use the rest of Logan's skeleton for a larger demonstration.
For what purpose?
Yes  Only there's a problem. The mutator gene is not responding to the radiation the way it would in mother nature. It's forcing the body's cells to replicate thousands of times faster than they're accustomed to. The Senator's body is literally burning itself out. Scott  this machine kills people and I don't think Magneto realizes it.
So where do you think he's planning this larger demonstration?
What does that mean?
The neurofilter acts like a surge protector, regulating the infinite flow of information from Cerebro to the Professor's mind. It's what keeps him from being crushed by the consciousness of millions.
Thomas Edison knew how to make the light bulb. He had the energy source. He had the vacuum. But he didn't have the filament. He tried metal after metal but nothing would hold to power.
... until he found tungsten.
I wish I could go.
We all do.
Storm. Try to look for the highest vantage point. From what I can figure, he'll need to gain as much altitude as possible to blanket the island. It is my feeling that Magneto has to
Beast.
That's the guy.
This pizda? Never seen him before.
Who you workin' for? What do you do for a living, dickhead?
Cops. Like a plague. No matter how many you pay there's always another with his hand out. How did you pick him out?
He flashed his badge to half the bar when he bought his drink.
I appreciate you bringing this to our attention. Whatever you want, the rest of the night, consider it on the house.
Thanks, but I'm here on business. I heard you're the G around here. I'm looking for some cars, expensive ones. A lot of them.
Sorry, man, don't know what you're talking about.
I'm talking about the sports cars that disappear off the docks in Genoa and wind up here. If you don't know about 'em, who does?
I remember that one where you jump the motorcycle over the freeway at rush hour.
When else are you gonna do it?
We seen all your shit! So you want cars? We get whatever cars you need. What are you looking for?
Ferrari's, Lamborghini's... high end pasta rockets. Ten to start.
Don't look at me, X, she handles all the details.
It'll work faster if I have an account number.
Very nice. I'm impressed.
I'm somewhat less so. We seem to have a bit of a problem...
I had to inspect the merchandise first.
Of course.
What's this?
This is a gift. From me to you.
What's going on, my friend?
You tell me! You got a sniper up there or what?
He's not with us, Xander. He must be with you.
Bullshit! You get your boy off that roof or I swear to God I'm gonna give you another hole to breathe out of.
I don't believe it! You can't shoot a cop in the middle of the street!
Had to do what I had to do.
Total chaos, man! Welcome to Anarchy 99!
What's "Anarchy 99"?
It's all this craziness! It's what we've been living since 99, when we left the Army. One of our brothers died in Grozny and we said the hell with this shit. What for? He dies for what? Politics? Who's politics? Not ours.
You wanna see my politics?
Screw the world. If I'm gonna die for something, it better be bitches and money.
That's what I'm talking about, man! That's why Anarchy 99 was born.
To us it means no walls, no speed limits, no jails. It's everybody does what he wants. People think democracy is freedom but they don't have a clue. There's an old punk song. It says: "America stands for freedom, but if you think you're free..."
"...try walking into a deli and urinating on the cheese". 'Anarchy Burger' by the Vandals.
You got it, man. It's stupid but it's true. True freedom is when you do whatever you want anytime you want. That's when you know you're living, man.
How you gonna do that with government and rules everywhere?
Easy. You get enough money that you grow an ass big enough for the whole world to kiss.
You got a great setup here Yorgi. You really know how to live.
It's a beautiful town, Prague. It's been good to me.
I've been here before, when I was a kid. My old man was in the service, we used to live on the Army base in Hamburg.
You, an Army brat? I don't see that one at all. Did you join the service as well?
Hell no. My dad was a straight up tin soldier. Somehow he pissed this general off and got himself dishonorably discharged. Had a court martial and everything. The charges were total bullshit, so he was sure he'd get his name cleared, but it didn't happen.
Connections and politics, it's the same everywhere.
My old man, he bought into the system, and it screwed him. So he swallowed a bullet. Me, I don't believe in nothing I can't see and touch.
I've got meetings this afternoon, I've got to get some sleep. Just pick a girl.
That's alright, I'm kinda tired.
You want to insult me? This is my hospitality. Pick one.
That was for Anders.
Don't forget goatee boy. I greased him up on the diamond run.
And you. Why do you have such a problem staying away, my friend? Did you miss us that much?
I wanted to get the hell out of Prague before Silent Night falls.
Not bad, man, not bad. You put things together quick. Prague it is.
What's the gimmick, Yorgi? That's the part I don't get. You gonna hold the world hostage with your gas bombs? I didn't think you were dumb enough to go with that hack cliche.
You think I'm after money? I told you, my friend. Anarchy. Time for a change. Money is good, but for true freedom you have to get rid of the rules themselves.
So all by yourself, you're going to destroy every government; in the world.
Easier than that, buddy. I'll get them to destroy each other. You kill an entire Peace conference, someone is going to have to pay. Then our friend Ahab continues down the river to the ocean and begins his world tour. London, Cairo, Beijing... Pretty soon everyone's involved. These guys bomb those guys, those guys invade these guys. Soon the whole world is like your wild West cowboy days. No rules, no law, everybody free to do what they want.
Including rape, pillage, murder.
Sure, if that's what you want. Why not? It's all human nature. So we just have to launch our baby and wait for the decline and fall of civilization as we know it.
And here I thought "anarchy" was just something cool to put on a Tshirt.
Come on, Xander. You used to stand for something. What happened to you, man? I thought you'd get it.
You both could have been a part of it. You could have ridden with us into a new day, the dawning of a new age of 
Oh just shoot us already. I'm sorry I asked.
What's so damn funny?
Been to any good diners lately?
Heads up, man. What's this thing on my back?
A parachute. This does not argue well.
Who's writing this dude's dialogue?
He's a pretty good actor, though.
Help me with this guy.
It's like you said, every man for himself.
They're all over the place! What the hell's going on?
Looks like we're in the middle of the drug war.
Sit down.
I've been on a plane for twelve hours, I think I'll stand.
My name is Slovo, Czech secret police. When you are here you are under my jurisdiction, you take my orders, you do what I say. If you become any kind of an inconvenience, I'll shoot you.
Here we go again.
You're here because your government is putting pressure on my government. This is an internal affair, a Czech affair, that you are interfering with. I will warn you once: Don't shit in my lawn. Get whatever information your government seeks and get our.
First of all, you should kill whoever sold you that suit. Two, I don't wanna be here either, so just step off. Three, if you had the authority to shoot me you would've done it by now, so just ease up on the machismo, bitch. Now that we've got that sorted out, I'm gonna get some rest.
Nice hops.
The corner. Anarchy 99.
I'll leave you two alone to talk.
Yeah, thanks a lot.
Dude, what are you doing here?
You killed me, remember? Now I have to hide out here with you. Where have you been?
I found something big enough for us to take these guys down with. They've got a of nerve agent they're gonna unleash.
Is this what you're looking for?
Sorry, "dude".
What's the deal?
Oh come on, don't feel bad. You got played, so what? You're new at this. Did you think you could just stroll into this business one day and have all the angles figured out?
Why you dogging me up?
They came and found me. They said they'd kill me unless I help them. Plus they offer me a lot of money. No big deal. These things happen. Dump your gun on the floor.
Hey, you don't need all this just to go on vacation. Unless this ain't for going on vacation...
I'm through, Xander.
I can see that. Why?
You run around with maniacs jumping motorcycles in the desert, you break 36 bones crashing wave runners and snowboarding off cliffs, all with no health insurance... It's insane, I can't take it anymore.
I'm having fun, what's the problem?
You have all this talent, and you waste it. You won't take a single endorsement deal. Meanwhile those other guys have their own video games! But no, you've got too much "integrity" for that.
I don't wanna go mersh, you know that. But hey, if this is about money...
French Polynesia? This wouldn't last us a week in a cheap hotel. Do you know how expensive it is down there?
Alright, so I'll get more.
It's not about the money, X! You never plan for anything. I can't live like that anymore, I need some stability.
Well if you're bailing, I guess I'd better give you your surprise now.
What...?
I was gonna wait till the islands, but...
You're serious?
Of course I'm serious. I bought it, didn't I?
This is so typical. I can't believe you. I've barely seen you for the last three weeks and now this? Are you out of your mind?
I don't know. I thought this is what you wanted. You want stability, here it is.
You can't just propose to me out of nowhere. You think that's going to solve our problems? I'm sorry, X. It was a kick for a while, but it's over. You're just not going anywhere.
You're not exactly "going anywhere" yourself.
You're wrong about that. I'm heading out that door right now.
Hate those Russkie choppers. Rattle trap pieces of garbage. I'm agent Shavers. Toby Lee Shavers. I'm looking for what's his name. Three X' s.
That's would be me.
Back off, just go away you klutz. Alright, here's the story. The items in these cases belong to me. I designed them, built them, and was going to use them in the field myself until you showed up.
I stole your beat, huh? Guess you forgot to brownnose the right people.
Is that supposed to be funny? I'm not laughing. I've worked for ten years to get my shot at being a field agent, funny boy. And ar the last minute I get bumped by you, some reject from the Ozzfest.
Why don't you show me some gear before you get hurt.
Listen to you. Right away, sir, anything you say, sir.
Miniature power cams set in on contact, giving you a sure grip on any surface.
They come in any other styles or colors?
This is your standard dart gun.
That one I'm real familiar with.
I think I'll hang on to these.
Think again, that's government property. You have to sign for everything. I've got one more that wasn't on your list.
From the Beastie Boys collection?
It's a stakeout suit. It's got food, water, recording gear, anything you need for covert spying. It's all weather, fire retardant, and if you give this buckle a sharp pull, the whole outfit deploys into a parachute.
You're joking, right?
Now that I've given you the overview, we're going to spend the next couple hours going into extensive operational detail.
I thought that was in detail.
Nothing. He had two days.
Perhaps he is not all he says he is.
What are you doing?
It all happened so fast. Such an unfortunate accident.
What was that for?
I'd forgotten how exciting it is working together.
You've been so quiet lately, Petra, I thought you no longer cared.
Why don't we go below decks and work off some of this adrenaline.
Viktor! Stay the course.
The Peace conference...
Nice place to start, don't you think?
Ten is hardly worth the effort. We're talking a lousy million five U.S.
I have Japanese buyers who are looking to move a fleet, if you have the quality of merchandise they're after. And it's a mil two, max.
Do you know what a wire transfer is?
Is she for real? Honey, maybe you should quiet down and let the grownups have a conversation.
My goodness, a word with four syllables. I should get some ice before your brain gets too hot.
Sure. Just chisel some off your heart.
So cute. He shows up for a battle of wits with a mental butter knife.
If you got a problem with me, why are we dancing?
Yorgi asked me to.
You do everything Yorgi says?
Go to hell.
It's gonna be like that, huh? You got all bent out of shape as soon as he started dancing with someone else. Why's that?
Mind your business.
Did you guys used to date? That's it, right? He broke your heart and you're still soft on him. That's funny, it don't seem to fit with a tough broad like you.
Where are you going?
Why are you still hanging around? Your business is finished, you should go home.
I was invited. What's your story?
I don't know who you are or where you come from, but I don't like you. You ask too many questions.
Come on, don't front like that. You'll put a guy right off you.
Don't even bother, X man, I'm not your type.
That right? Why's that?
Who are you?
We hung out last night, remember?
I also remember you drove your car here. Who are you really? Make no mistake, I will shoot you and not feel bad about it. Who are you working for?
Hey, take it easy. I'm just a dude trying to make a buck.
Bullshit. I see you look at everything, study everything, ask questions. I know exactly what you're doing. Empty your pockets.
You've got to relax, baby, you're paranoid.
Hey, you're good.
Maybe we should start again, yes? I know so little about you, except that you're not what you say you are.
That makes two of us then, sweetheart, because I ain't buying your bullshit either. You're not like them, I can see it in your eyes. So you tell me, who's bullshitting who?
I don't know what you're talking about.
The eyes don't lie. All this has gotten to you, hasn't it, Petra? You came in as Yorgi's girlfriend and you stayed because it was fun. Now you don't like it so much, but you're in so deep you can't get out anymore. Tell me if I'm wrong, Petra.
Go to hell!
Look at you. You're helping run things now. You're a gangster. I bet that snuck up on you. You woke up one day and you were a criminal.
What are you?
I'm an information gatherer. You wanna go somewhere and talk about it?
That's how you eat? It's like a gerbil.
I'm from L.A.
So why don't you tell me something about who you gather information for. They obviously have very deep pockets. Are you from a rival clan?
Let's just say I'm freelancing and leave it at that.
Whoever sent you knew what they were doing. You and Yorgi are practically twins. Two nihilistic fashion victims who make a lot of noise but don't say much.
Don't judge a comic book by it's cover.
You agree with a lot of what he says, don't you.
I know where he's coming from. The only thing I really don't get is why he dumped you. Up until I found that out, I thought his judgment was pretty sound.
Don't even start. I'll be honest, I don't trust you. Bur lets pretend for a minute that what you say is true, that I want to leave. What can you do about it?
The people I know want facts, the kinds of things an insider would know. They're interested in putting Anarchy 99 out of business.
All I have to do is risk my life providing you with these facts.
We could work together. Then maybe we could both get the hell out of here. There's a beach in Bora Bora with my name on it.
A beach named X? That I'd like to see.
So there you have it. I guess you just have to ask yourself, how bad to you want out?
They tell me you're an American agent.
What are you talking about?
There's no more time for games. They made you. There's a sniper out front waiting to put a bullet in your eye. Tell me if it's true.
It's a long story, but yeah, more or less.
Jesus Christ. You're going to have to go out the back. The data that you copied with your toy. Tomorrow, at six o'clock. Look it up. We're taking a trip. Be there at six and you'll have plenty to tell your people.
If I go out the back, he'll know you've warned me.
That's alright, I'll figure something out.
Not an option. Just get up slowly like everything's cool. Petra, trust me. You just hung yourself out to dry for me, I'm not gonna let you down.
I can't let this happen. I want you to go out the back. I'll make up some excuse.
They'll kill you, you know they will. Besides, there is no back door. Keep smiling. Ready? Now.
So what's the plan with this Ahab? Are they selling it or what?
No, something worse. He says it's a surprise, but I know him. This is his masterpiece.
We've got to find out what it is. Can you handle that?
There's something I didn't have time to tell you before.
What's that?
I'm a agent as well. KGB. I've been undercover for over a year.
You're what? What the hell have you been doing?
I don't know. Eight months ago I stop hearing from my people. No explanation, just silence. So I stay and I wait like I was told. Soon I'm in so far, they'd kill me if I left. Now every day I get farther and farther away from what I was. I'm like you said, a criminal.
I'm busted up for you, but Jesus, what the hell are you doing? Those people almost drowned on that boat and you didn't lift a finger.
No, I guess I've been no help at all to you.
Get your head back in the game. There are lives at stake here.
Of course. I'll do what I can. I have to go, before they notice.
When can I see you again?
You can't, it's too risky. I'm not much help anyway, remember?
Are you alright?
What the hell are you doing? You could've killed me!
I heard you talking. I could tell where you were in the room.
I don't know what's going on anymore. I thought I was square with that dude. Now everybody's switching sides like it's the WWF.
What are you doing with the Ivans?
I know which cops are good and which are bad. Come with me. Come on, right now.
Where are we going?
We're getting out of this place. We've done enough.
Wait a minute, whoa. We can't go now. What's Yorgi got planned with that nerve agent?
It doesn't matter anymore, forget it.
Of course it matters. Hey, hold on!
What do we owe our governments? Yours kidnapped you, mine abandoned me.
Petra, this ain't about the people that sent us here, you know that.
No, now it's about us. Let's do something for us before we both get killed. Don't you want to get to Bora Bora, Xander?
We can't leave now. We have to do something.
Why? You're the one who believes in nothing. Screw the world, or whatever you said.
They left. To a fortress in the mountains.
We'll have to go after them.
Aren't you afraid?
A long time ago I learned how to put fear away in a little place in my head. Maybe that's my problem. If you don't feel fear you can do some amazing things, but you can also screw your life up in ways you can't imagine.
I must be healthy, then, because I'm scared to death. I guess I'd better get back to Yorgi.
You don't have to do that.
Yes, I do. You're right. I can't just let him go free. Besides, I can help you from the inside.
Aren't they gonna wonder were you've been?
I was supposed to wait for the cop to kill you and then kill the cop. They'll believe me. I've been lying for so long, one more time won't hurt.
When this is over, we're just gonna take off, the two of us. Take a vacation.
What the hell are we doing? We're doing all this together, trusting each other, making plans, and we haven't even slept together yet.
Don't you see, X? For the betterment of humanity, he's going to start World War Three.
He's a regular humanitarian. And all this time I thought he was just a tool.
Yorgi and Kirill.
Let me guess, they had a big white torpedo with them.
Did you do your homework?
If they launch it, I know how to bring it back.
Let's do this.
Where's he headed?
He owns a big industrial complex on the river. He'll launch it from there.
Where'd the damn truck go?!
Go to the water, it's that way!
Toadies right behind.
Let me.
You okay?
A piece of shrapnel hit me.
I'm sick of that guy. Let's stop playing nice.
He's shut out the communication circuit!
You can't talk to it?
No, it's like a safety. We are going to have to access the manual controls.
A manual control on a moving torpedo. This day keeps getting better and better.
It's running three meters down. Twenty knots.
It has to surface to release the nerve agent, right?
By then it's too late! The only way to safely dispose of the nerve agent is in deep water! The chemicals will break down and dissipate!
Use your grenades! Maybe we can blow it up underwater!
I can't believe my mission is finally over. I don't even know what to do with myself.
You can't welch on me now. We had a deal.
What are you doing?
It's about your next mission. You need to be debriefed.
What game is that?
Slick graphics, huh? See these dudes? They're called "Anarchy 99", they're the bad guy bosses.
Do they have any special powers? The bosses always have special powers.
You wanna check it out? Come here.
Next we got a Siberian redneck, Viktor. Into snowmobiles and snowboarding. So naturally, he covers prostitution and the drug trade.
Naturally.
This guy's kinda dorky lookin'.
Kirill, the sniper. Looks like a bookworm, but he had 72 confirmed kills in Chechnya, they called him the "Finger of God". Assassination and weapons.
Yorgi masterminded the takeover of three Red Mafiya clans. Cops called it "blood week". He combined all of their global enterprises into one huge crime syndicate: Anarchy 99.
"Anarchy" 99"?
What are you gonna do? They're Euro trash.
What weapons do you have?
Just about anything I want, it looks like. This is gonna be tough, though. There's no way to save this game. I gotta get it right the first time through.
What do you get if you finish?
Nothing, really. My guy is just doing it to stay alive.
Oh. I bet by the end he gets something out of it.
Like what?
He gets to be the hero.
Whatchu doing here?
Oh, I don't know. It was an accident.
That's some accident, hombre. You accidentally fall out of a plane in the middle of the night and land up in my back yard.
We seen this kind of parachutes before, you know. U.S. Army. You got some friends here, jump out with you guys?
We're antisocial. We don't have any friends.
We're on to the game, ese. You got the fake blood splattered all over the walls, you got your torture tools... It's all very cute. But come on, let's quit while you're ahead. I'm only trying to save you a beatin'.
You saving me? You talking pretty tough for a guy got himself chained to the ceiling.
Alright. You wanna eat through a tube, be my guest.
Now you're gonna make me enjoy this, funny guy. Now I'm gonna take the whole foot off. Whatchu think of that?
What do you have?
Not a whole helluva lot. His final transmission was mangled. About something or someone called "Ahab". Whatever it is, it cost him his life.
He was the best there was. That makes three agents lost.
They're ruthless and they have a lot of firepower. It's only a matter of time before they figure out how to deploy Silent Night. Then we're gonna have a catastrophe on our hands.
Silent Night in the hands of a bunch of impertinent cowboys
We're gonna have to step in, Sam. Those CIA boys couldn't find a clown in a field of cactus. Let me take care of it.
How will you fix it?
I'll go in with a team. But first I'm going to need some intel. I'll have to put someone inside, someone new, someone they won't see coming. One of their own.
So you'll dredge the bottom again. You've done that before. The results were... uneven.
You wanna find out about rats, ask a rat. I've had my people put together a talent pool. I downloaded it to your desktop.
The usual prospects. Convicts, contract killers, murde...
The scum of the Earth.
But programmable. And expendable.
I've seen enough. Turn it off.
They're degenerates. There's not a man in there that would give a damn if the Chinese took over.
That's exactly why we need them.
Ridiculous. Cut him off. I'm sorry Gibbons, you pulled up a shark this time.
I think we should send him whatever he wants.
You what? A wire transfer of this size?
If it means getting Silent Night back, absolutely.
You're talking about a very expensive risk here.
He's gotten closer in 24 hours than all of the other operatives combined. He got us an account number to boot. Now even if he's just dumb and lucky, I say we back his play. I put him out there, Sam. If he doesn't come up with the money, they'll kill him. I can't let that happen.
Why not? You were going to throw him in a tub full of acid, weren't you?
Alright, do what you want. But keep the screws on him. He's a wild card. That could be either good or bad.
So the odds are up to fiftyfifty? I can deal with that.
Who the hell are you?
The name's Gibbons. You were saying?
What is this place?
Looks like a diner.
Diner, huh? Let me tell you what the problem is. I wake up drugged to find what? You've got a "salesman" over here reading a three week old newspaper. He's pulling a 211 with a "trucker", who happens to be packing a cop issue H&K 9mm. I get tipped that something is going down when she passes me a note. How's that for twisted logic? How did she know there was trouble unless they pulled the guns before I "walked" in? And if that's true, why'd they stop and wait until I woke up to gaffle the money? Then I notice how beefy they both are. Hell, even the waitress is cut. All three of them look like they went through the same training program. Ergo they ain't strangers and this isn't what it seems. That's how I knew yoyo wouldn't get a round off even if I gave him all day. Why?
Most guys we ran through this either took off or helped them rob the place. I expected you to do the same.
That shows me already that you don't have a clue. What's it to you, anyway?
Whether you thought this was for real or not, you jumped in and helped the waitress on instinct. That tells me something about your character.
Good for you. Now why don't you stop wasting my time and tell me what you want. You didn't go through all this for my benefit.
It's your lucky day. You just might get the chance to pay back our wonderful country for all the freedom you enjoy.
A Fed, I shoulda known. Who else would have this kind of budget? Now you're gonna hit me with the sales pitch.
Alright, Cage, you've got me. This is one of those moments. "Many are called, few are chosen", that kind of thing. Your government needs you. Are you up for the challenge?
..If you're trolling around for narcs, man, have you got the wrong guy.
Why is that?
Look at me, dude, do I look like a fan of law enforcement? Forget the tests, you shoulda just asked me. I woulda saved you a lot of trouble.
Oh I don't know, I think the tests work pretty well. Sometimes they give me answers you wouldn't admit to in a million years.
Are we done now? You've got nothing on me. So if you ain't booking me, I'm walking.
You've got this wrong. You're not under arrest, you've been abducted. And until I say different, you belong to me.
Is that a fact?
Sure as gravity. I've had a feeling about you from the start, Cage. It's nausea.
You know what I hate? Any scumbag with a clean shirt and a bad haircut can get one of those tin stars and suddenly they think they're God.
You know what I hate? It's always the assholes that pass the tests.
Congratulations, you've just graduated at the head of your class.
You're a cold piece of work. You almost got three people killed out there.
Good thing you were there to save the day. Come walk with me.
You've really got me confused, Cage. On the one hand you showed leadership, courage under fire, a willingness to protect men you hardly knew... and on the other you have an arrest record that pegs you as near sociopathic. Help me out here. I'm not following your evolution.
You want the cheap backstory? The runaway mom, the suicide dad and the foster homes? Gimme a break. You're not interested in my past, you're interested in my future as some kind of spy.
You're perceptive too. I forgot to add that to the list of surprises. I'm with the National Security Agency. And unlikely as it may sound, I need your help.
I'm not interested. I've already got a job.
You're an adrenaline junkie with one foot in the penitentiary. You risk your ass building a daredevil myth that means nothing and you're not getting any younger.
I plan on getting a lot older. And playing spy games sounds like a quick way to get yourself dead.
That's too bad. I thought a guy like you would appreciate the challenge.
Now I'm the one who's nauseous. So what's the deal? What do you need me for?
There's some folks I want to keep tabs on. Dirty, tattooed, uncivilized. Your kind of people.
What do I get out of it?
If you find out what I want to know, and if I'm able to successfully use that information, you get to go back to your degenerate little life. If not, you take a bath.
You're one sick bastard. A sadist with a badge looking to rope me in to a suicide mission. I think no matter which way I go I'm likely to wind up face down on a sheet of plastic. So here's my answer: kiss my ass, Hopalong.
Not bad for a gimp.
What's with that "X" on the back of your head? Does that mean you're "extreme"? I've got some news for you, Mr. X, you're a three time loser. So maybe you should tattoo another couple of X's on your head.
How about a pedicure as long as you're down there. What's this? LoJack?
Wherever you go on the planet, I'll find you. There's no quitting. If you try to take it off, a ring of needles will inject enough curare into your bloodstream to kill you before you hit the ground. Is all that clear?
Yeah, I spy or I die.
I expect you to call in regularly with progress reports.
Fine, but I'm not gonna be no Bulldog Omega 5.
Up yours.
Crude and defiant as always, Triple X. It fits so well because you're obscene.
Is that all?
Just remember, I'll be watching.
I guess you got my Email. I set up a purchase. Ten cars.
If you're trying to push my buttons, you're on the right track. Don't make me question my own judgment, X.
Buddy, you sent me here to get close to their organization, that costs money.
One point two million dollars? I did not authorize you to spend one point two million dollars!
I'm already on a first name basis with these dudes, I got a deal set up, you want me to hammer it or not?
We're not after car thieves here.
What the hell am I after? You're telling me dick.
That information is classified. You're there to gather information on their operations, period.
Call me crazy, but I thought hooking up a million dollar deal was a great way to get on their good side. What else? You gonna hassle me about the weapons and spy stuff too?
My friend, if you're planning on crossing me...
I know, poison needles in my shins. You've got 36 hours. Peace, out.
You did say "Ahab"? You're sure about that?
Yeah, I sent you pictures. Here's what I'm thinking. If they take out the cameras and sensors, they could probably put a bomb in this thing. You drop it in the water in the Red Sea and three weeks later it's swimming up the Potomac.
This is good work, X, damn fine work. You need to press on at all costs, find out what they have planned with this "Ahab".
Hey, one miracle at a time. They're on to me now, remember?
I'm gonna be en route with a team shortly to relieve you. Just keep the pressure on until the cavalry arrives. And X? You done yourself proud helping those people today.
Thanks.
You're a grungy little phoenix, you know that? Keep up the good work.
You ain't seen nothing yet.
Snow covered fortress. Army of bad guys. The usual.
I'm on the way with a team to relieve you. What's the latest?
They retrofitted Ahab with some kind of rocket launcher. They were loading canisters of liquid into it, light colored and dark colored in the same tube but separate. Something tells me this it that "classified" stuff you didn't want me to know about. Does the song "Silent Night" mean anything to you?
Yes it does.
Come on, Gibbons, you can do better then that.
Silent Night is the name of a top secret binary nerve agent. The glass canister is shot into the air and detonated. The black and white chemicals mix, forming a toxic cloud. When it settles down to Earth, it'll kill everything in the vicinity.
Jesus Christ, Gibbons, this is something we came up with?
Yeah, that's right. So now that you know, you understand why it's important that we get it back.
Kinda funny, though, isn't it? We're not supposed to be making weapons like that anyway. Guess we shoulda played by the rules.
Somebody else makes those decisions, not guys like you and me. You've done your job, X, head back to Prague. I'll be landing in 90 minutes. This is my operation now.
We don't have that kinda time, boss, I don't think Prague's gonna be around much longer. I've gotta go now. I've got a lot of bad guys to kill.
Thought you bought the farm down there, X. Glad as hell to see you.
I'm pretty happy to see me too. So are you done with me yet?
You've kept up your end of the bargain, I'll do the same. But you really should consider staying on, you make a decent agent.
But I hate cops, remember? Except for her.
Cut the crap, X, I saw you down there. You're a hero. Don't be afraid to join the good guys.
Who says you're the good guys?
You know what they say, the only way to change the system is from the inside.
Oh yeah? Why don't we start by taking this thing off my ankle? The poison needles?
On come on, X. Did you really think we were that barbaric?
No needles, huh? What about the acid bath?
All for show. Just a psychological mind game to get you to do the right thing.
You're a jerkoff, you know that?
New information.
Ever see one of these before?
Too important for telephone. Comedian  Dr. Manhattan. All linked up.
What is that ungodly smell?
Bigger than I thought. CTU involved . . .
Yeah, I've heard all about your conspiracy theories. Now I've got a roomful of cameras in there. I want you out. Now. And whatever you're doing, knock it off. You're making us all look bad.
Fate of the world at stake, Adrian. Can't get too worked up over bad press.
Gila Flats  place where Jon turned into . . .
Dr. Manhattan, right. Now if you boys care to join me, we'll go save the world.
Veidt. You're the one who started World War III.
No. I just hastened the inevitable. He's been ready to blow for years. I knew all it would take was a little push. So I, uh . . . gave his friends and associates cancer.
Call off the cat and I'll kill you, Veidt.
Before you do that, you might want to look at what I've been looking at.
I don't know who you are buddy, but I swear to God, you got the wrong guy.
Edgar William Jacobi, aka William Edgar Bright, a.k.a. Moloch.
You're making a big 
Terrorist. Radical agitator. Stool pigeon.
ALL RIGHT! ALL RIGHT!!  How'd you find me?
Rorschach, you're talkin' heavy duty stuff. I got nothing to do with 
Worked both sides of the fence. Ask your old buddies in the CTU.
CTU? Jesus. You don't think 
Don't know. Ask around. I'll be back.
Two things I hate. Street mimes . . . users of recreational drugs.
No, no. You got it all wrong. I been on the case, Rorschach, I got something for you.
Adrian.
Laurie! Good to see you.
Don't rub it in. I live here.
And how's life with the walking Hbomb?
He's in by the superaccelerator.  Let me take your coat.
Adrian! Don't leave so soon. I 
I'll take a raincheck, Laurie.
Please.
He's a little farther gone every time.
Stay, Adrian. I just  every once in a while, I need to talk to someone human. He doesn't think like we do. He doesn't even feel what we feel. I mean  he even scares the research teams.
Laurie  he's the most powerful man who's ever lived. He's changed the world.
I know. I shouldn't be saying this. He's happy, he's content, he's doing his work 
What about you?
I suppose I'm serving my purpose, aren't I. I'll ring for the guards.
Nasty cough.  Try one of mine. Darling, you need to get out of the house. Why don't you give Daniel a call? I'm sure he'd be glad to hear from you.
Maybe I'll do that.
I'm sorry about Blake.
Their real names, please.
I don't know their real names.
You're lying, Miss Juspeczyk.
I don't know their real names!
You're not "protecting" anyone. These people's lives may depend on the answers you give. These are all former associates of Dr. Manhattan 
Then why don't you ask him?!?
Sit down, Miss Juspeczyk. As I mentioned, the people in this file are all close associates of Dr. Manhattan. They have something else in common as well. They've all developed a fairly . . . exotic form of lymphatic cancer.
What are you saying? That Jon is radioactive?
I'm terribly sorry.
What does this mean? What does it 
Six to eight months. That's with treatment.  Perhaps now you can see why it's so vital that we locate your . . . friends.
That's it. This is all a trick, isn't it? Some kind of horrible joke to make me 
All right, Miss Juspeczyk. Pack your things.
Am I free to go?
You're free to do whatever you goddamn well please. Let's move it.
I don't know why you've been keeping me here, but you're in deep shit 
Oh, I am, honey. You see, Russian tanks are crossing the Afghan border this very minute. And we are all of us, every living soul, in deep, deep shit  because our numberone strategic weapons has finally flipped out.
Jon?? You mean he's 
That's right. Your meal ticket's flown the coop. That blue bastard has apparently left the planet.
Sphinx brand. When I got out of weapons design, I wanted to move into a more . . . humanitarian area. I was thinking: what would do some good in the world? And I thought: why not a geneticallyaltered tobacco, that no only doesn't cause cancer  but cleans out your lungs as you smoke it? In fact I think I'll have one now. Care to join me?
Thanks, no. But it's a wonderful product. Now Adrian  your old colleague Dr. Manhattan has just left the planet amid rumors 
No. No. Cut.  Justine, we agreed. No questions about the Watchmen.
Oh sweetheart, just a quick one.
No. We laid out very careful ground rules 
No comment.
Did you know he was back on the streets?
I did not. Now get out of my way!
Isn't it true that you 
I'll say. If we ever get off this looneytune project, I'm gonna head straight for civilization and buy me a big thick steak.
With lots of ketchup?
Nothing wrong with ketchup.
Jon Osterman, you don't act like a Princeton boy. What's a big lug like you doing in a place like this?
Anything for science, I guess. Janey, there's something 
We should get back  What?
Nothing. What were you going to say?
We should get back to the lab. You okay, Jon?
Stupid watch. Stopped again. Do you have the 
Janey, will you marry me?
I can fix it.
 What?
My dad's a watchmaker. I'll put it back together for you. Better than ever.
Hiya, pardner. Long time no see.
Did anybody follow you? See you come here?
Sure. You got some kind of  bean juice on it.
Human bean juice. The Comedian is dead.
So do I. So do you.
Rorschach, that was a long time ago. I mean, that  that's just paranoia.
Maybe. Or maybe somebody's finally caught up with us. Somebody with a grudge. Thought you might want to spread the word.
Hey. Hey. If you don't mind, use the back stairs, all right?
. . . That was quick.
Toilet clogged. Short fat turd. Let's get out of here.
I don't know if you heard. A hired gunman tried to off Adrian.
Veidt's a fool. Tried to warn him about new information. Sicced his mangy cat on me.
What new information?
Blake investigating missing scientists for CTU. Dr. Manhattan somehow involved . . .
CTU. Could be behind Dr. Manhattan frameup.
What do you mean, frameup?
Obvious pattern  all ties in 
Are you saying that someone would risk starting World War III just to get back at us? What about all those poor shits with cancer?
How do we know they've got cancer? Could be part of massive propaganda scheme . . .
Come on, Rorschach. Gimme a break 
Where's Laurie?
I don't think she's coming with us.
We're running, Rorschach. We've got no place to go. We're hightailing it down to Adrian's.
Veidt's assassin. Leads to follow. Can't just 
Cases, leads  they don't matter, Rorschach. The world's about to end. If someone is trying to kill us, it doesn't matter.
Coward. Giving up.
SHUT UP, Rorschach.
Sorry, Daniel. You've always been a good friend. I know that. Sorry about Laurie.
Okay, let's just . . . thank you.
What happened?
The guidance system's fried. I had to switch to manual.  Some kind of massive electromagnetic shockwave.
What caused it?
Don't know. Nothing I can think of   outside of a nuclear blast.
Adrian. What are you doing? Why wouldn't you let us in?
He's the one. He's been the one all along. Stalking us.
Adrian  you? You killed Blake, and 
. . . And they call me a fucking nut.
Adrian. Its too late. The world is blowing up as we stand here.
Sorry, it's this thing with Blake. I mean, you don't really think anyone's out to get us  do you?
Dan, are you really that paranoid? Let's face it, Eddie Blake was no Mother Teresa.
Psychotic pig. He had it coming. Mr. CTU . . .
Now wait. We all had the same option as Blake. It was work for the government or do time.
Fine, but the Civil Terrorism Unit? It's a fucking Gestapo! Dirty tricks  political assassinations 
Okay, okay. You made your choice. You went underground. Some of us made other choices.
DREIBERG +++$+++
Damn straight.
Damn straight! We were heroes.
Of course, we looked like idiots in those bondage outfits.
Well, that was Adrian's idea. I know he's the smartest man in the world and all that, but  talk about publicity hounds . . .
Hey. You remember that nut in the hockey mask? With the asthma? What was his name . . .
Oh yeah. The one that used to confess to everything? Hoping we'd beat him up?
That's the one. Whatever happened to him?
He pulled it on Rorschach . . . and Rorschach dropped him down an elevator shaft.
Christ yes, I went in for a cancer scan first thing. Gave me a couple of rough nights, I'll tell you . . . How about you, Laurie?
Oh, yeah. They gave me a clean bill of health and then booted me the hell out. No expense account. No place to live.
You'll find something.  I should go. You and me, seeing each other, someone might put two and two together . . .
They're not following me, Dan. I mean  Jon's gone, we're right on the brink of World War III. Nobody cares about the Watchmen.
Maybe not, but why take chances?
Dan, what are you so scared of? I mean, me, I've spent all these years keeping Jon together, and now that it's over I feel  I feel glad. I'm finally free to, to go out and live my own life, and 
Laurie, wait. I've got a spare room. It's empty. If you'd like . . . LAURIE Oh Daniel, thanks, but I couldn't. You'd just be all nervous about 
No, screw that. What you were saying before, it's absolutely right.  I'd love to have you stay.
You're sure?
Oh. No. Sorry. I'll be right down the hall if you want me . . . I mean, if you need some aspirin, or 
I'm gonna take a warm bath and sack out.  You've been really sweet. Sleep tight, okay?
His what?
His . . . whatever.
I'm not his . . . whatever. Okay?
I told you I was a little bit out of step. A lot of the old stuff I listen to  it never came out on crystal.
I'd say you stalled out about forty years ago. Nellie Lutcher  Louis Jordan  I've never even heard of these people.
Play one. Educate yourself.
No wonder Adrian's rich. You use that stuff?
Sure. It works. I mean, look at this face, Daniel. I'm thirtyeight years old!
I don't mind getting older. I'm obsolete anyway. Why try to hide it?
I like the way you look. It's strange with Jon. He doesn't age. His face doesn't change. But you, Daniel, you look . . .
Old?
Not at all. You look very  dashing. Here, you pick one.
. . . What?
Pick a record. I feel like dancing.
Eight cops? Oh, great. A jury's gonna love that.
Are you kidding? If they put him in jail he's dead. He'll never get to trial.
I just realized. I'd never seen his face. I guess it was just a matter of time. He's totally  Daniel? What's wrong?
The Comedian . . . Jon . . . now Rorschach.
Ohh. I could use some dinner. Who was that on the phone?
One more down. Someone tried to kill Adrian. . . . First time I've ever heard him scared.
 What is it.
I know what you're thinking. You'd be a lot safer if I weren't around.
Laurie 
I'm an open target, Dan. If you're with me 
With any luck, the world'll end before we get ours.
Enough is enough, Daniel. Where exactly are we?
Memory lane.
The Owlship. I can't believe it.
 I thought it was time for a routine maintenance check.
I took her out a couple of summers back. Scared the hell out of some cows.  I wonder if she'd make it down to Antarctica.
Antarctica??
Adrian's headed down to his secret retreat. He invited us to come along. I've been thinking. If things do get nasty . . . it wouldn't be a bad place to sit out a war.
Would you want to sit out a war? I mean  what would be left.
You and me.
Dan! The spare costumes! I can't believe you kept them.
Me neither. Mine barely even fits. The thing is, I try to remember why we did it, and I can't. Helping people, or righting wrongs, or trying to save the world . . . I don't know. It all seems so abstract.
God, you sound like Jon.  Turn around.
What are you up to?
Don't look. Turn around.
This'd better not be what I think it is.
Okay!
What the hell  ?
It's a peace rally. The CTU's just opened fire on the crowd.
Oh, Laurie. Jesus. No.
They're following us.
All right. Mission accomplished.
Missed 'em Dan. You're aiming high!
I don't want to take 'em out. Just want to keep 'em interested.
They're practically on us . . .
That Detroit shit? I'm so worried.
What?
The costumes. Am I right?
No way. I'm not that much of a pervert.
Yes you are.
No offense, Laurie, but it was Silk Spectre I had the crush on. Tonight was the first time I've felt like myself in ten years.
That's because 
It's because there's nothing to be afraid of anymore. The world's about to end. I feel like I could save it.
You're full of yourself. What are you doing?
Long as we're on the subject of perverts . . . I miss Rorschach. Let's spring him.
. . . What??
What's he doing?
I think he's going to the john.
My God! We bust him out of jail, in the middle of a riot, and he stops to take a 
I beg your pardon . . . ? Some gratitude.
Will you two lovebirds keep it down?
Welcome back, Night Owl.
What now? Fly south  hook up with Adrian?
What was he doing?
Trying to change the past. He said it was the only way to save the world 
He saved himself. He changed the past.
Where did he go?
Dan, is this  is this New York??
Those cars. What year is this??
Everything's changed 
Dan  what do we do now?
Wherever we are, it's better than what we left. Backs together 
We'll tell them what's happened. They'll listen to reason, won't they  ?
The Comedian. He's dead. Murdered. That's all I know.
My God. Murdered?  What's this have to do with Rorschach?
It's  he's got some kind of conspiracy theory. He thinks someone's . . . I don't know, stalking us.
Us. You mean the Watchmen.
I know, I know, it's just  he's back on the street, he smells blood.
You know how he is. He goes on these binges, kills a couple of thugs  then he's satisfied. It blows over.
He's bound to get caught. I don't want my name coming out. Not at this late date.
If he comes here, I'll handle him. Remember  I've always protected you. Haven't I? Do you need money?
No. I just wanted you to 
You did the right thing, Daniel. Let's stay in touch, okay? Good night.
Good night.
Who?
I don't know, but . . . in the wake of all that's happened, I'm starting to think Rorschach may have been right. Is Laurie okay?
She's with me.
Good. Be careful, Daniel, don't let up your guard. Look, I'm going to head south for a while  hole up at Karnak until all this blows over. You two would be welcome to join me.
Thanks for the offer, Adrian. I'll let you know.
Yeah. See, I've been working on a little project. Top secret, of course . . .
The missing scientists.
Uh huh. You might recognize the names. Quite a few of them worked at Gila Flats.
What??
I couldn't let him interfere with my project.
It is Jon. Twentyfour years ago. Before he turned into Dr. Manhattan.
Good Lord. How'd you get it on tape?
It's not on tape. It's live. We're watching it happen.
Gentlemen, the past. Unfolding before your eyes. Stand back from the field. It'll blow you to bits.
What is it? How does it work?
It's a tachyon chamber. It generates subatomic particles which flow backward in time. There are other worlds, Daniel, other timelines  existing parallel to our own 
Adrian  you've lost it.
I've seen them! I've seen them in there.
Dont be obtuse, Daniel. If I kill Jon in the past, none of this will happen. We wont even be here, will we?
And what if youre wrong?
Im not.
What if youre wrong??
Then Ive been a very bad boy and youll have to spank me. Christ! Im doing what I have to do to save the godforsaken human race!!
Your problem, Dan, is a lack of vision. You spent all those years chasing after muggers, and drug dealers, and jaywalkers . . . as if the world was any better for it. As if any of it mattered.
You ruthless son of a bitch. You really believe this madscientist bullshit is going to save the world?
We'd better hope so.  It's almost time.
Blake? Dead?
Yes. I heard this morning. Washington's asked me to attend the funeral as a matter of protocol.
I'm here, Laurie.
Is it time? D'you have to leave for the funeral?
Not yet, there's plenty of time.
Would you like me to stay?
Mm hmm.
I could stay and go.
. . . And just how would you manage that?
I'm not here. I'm still on Mars. I've come to collect you.
Collect me?
In the immediate future we're on Mars. I'm telling you goodbye. You're trying to convince me to cure your illness . . .
Jon, no  I can't 
It will happen, Laurie. I've already seen it. Neither of us can do anything to change it.
The atmosphere. I'm sorry. These things slip my mind.
Jesus, Jon, I nearly choked to  where are we 
This whole place is ticking. Does it  keep time?
Yes. In about . . . thirty seconds, for example, you'll tell me you're sleeping with Dreiberg.
You  you know about me and Dan?
Jon, does anybody know what the hell you're talking about? Dan's just an ordinary guy, but he talks to me. When he looks at me he's seeing something more than just a  a collection of atoms.
Then you're sleeping with Dreiberg?
Well, I just, you just said  don't act surprised.
That's how time works, Laurie. Everything is preordained . . . even my responses. We're all puppets. I'm just a puppet who can see the strings.  Thirty seconds.
Jon  there's something I have to know. Did you love me once?
Yes, I loved you. I left the earth when I lost you.
Yet you must've known all along that you'd give me cancer. Just be being with me.
I didn't give you cancer, Laurie. Not you, not the others. I don't know what did.
But you knew that I'd  die.
Memories of the future are just like any others. I've tried not to dwell on the unpleasant ones . . . You won't die of cancer, Laurie. There won't be time for that.
Then it's going to happen. The world's going to end.  And you've always known.
Always. Ever since the day I died.
Then why don't you . . . do something about it!
Because 
Because you can't, I know, it's preordained. So sorry. I forgot. Jon. This, this "script" you're following . . . who writes it?
I don't know yet. I should be able to tell you in  roughly six hundred years.
I can't stand any more of this. I want to go back. If I'm going to die I want to be with  other people.
Please, Laurie. Not yet. I've got eons stretching before me, a universe to explore. I'll be alone. You're the last human being I'll ever see.
Jon, I do not want to hear it.
I'm sorry. Look  there's a gas storm on the Valles Marineris . . .
Oh God. I'm no more than a bug on a windshield to you.
You're the only human being I care for.
Then do me a favor. If the world's going to end, it shouldn't matter a bit. I want you to cure me.
I won't do that.
You have the power to do it. I want you to do it. Please.
I explained this. I can't. That's not the way it happens.
Jon. If you ever loved me  if there's anything human left in you  then do it.
What  am I 
Cured, yes.
Its very strange. Times flowing backwards . . .
Jon  what??
The south pole. Times flowing backwards.
Jon, where are we?
Veidts complex.
Jon 
Space and time. I finally understand, Laurie. I see it all now.
Jon  for Gods sake, what do you see?
I see what the watchmaker made. I see the universe!
Hi, Jon.
Hello, Adrian.
The bearer of bad news.
We've lost a colleague. The Comedian is dead.
Rorschach's on the case. He's got Dreiberg in a lather. He seems to think that someone is "stalking" the Watchmen.
Oh? The CTU suspects a Libyan hit squad.
What's your theory?
Life and death are unquantifiable abstracts. They don't concern me.
I guess you'll be dismantling Russian tanks soon.
You mean Afghanistan? It won't require my attention. What I'm doing here is far more interesting.
WHAT ARE YOU DOING, VEIDT?
Jon! Get back! You don't understand.
Walter 
Don't call me that.
Walter  you're just telling me what you think I want to hear.
Wrong answers?
There's no right or wrong. But if you don't give me an honest response, I can't help you. I want to help you. I want to know all about you.
Hnnrr.  Like to masturbate. Shit once a day.
A whore fucking.
Who is she? Do you know her?
And what  split  the dog's skull open?
Why, doctor. I did. He was a bad dog.
Walter. This compulsion of yours  to punish transgressors. In your mind . . . what gives you the right to judge?
God isn't there to do it.
We don't know that.
That man, then, he was the first. The first you 
Saw the world that night  random, empty, hideous. God didn't make it that way. We did. We make the world  in our own image. What else can I illuminate?
Had a lot of blood in him.
You oughta see upstairs. It's a slaughterhouse.
No idea who's behind this?
Small army, from the looks of it. He put up one hell of a fight.
He would  You might as well know. It's gonna get messy. We got a call from Washington.
Washington?
They want in. Seems our friend here was hardcore CTU.
What about our end?
Well, sir . . . in a worstcase scenario . . . we'd assume that twentyfive percent of the Russian birds get through.
What kind of time frame are we talking about?
Thirty minutes maximum. Of course, I assume we'd be in the fortified command bunker at the time of the launch order.
As you can see, we may be able to salvage a goodsized chunk of the farm belt.
What about the aftermath? This socalled . . . "nuclear winter" theory?
We don't really know, sir, but bluntly, our survival capability . . . may depend on a quirk of the weather.
The weather. I see. Keep me posted. I want hourly forecasts and a full report on optimum strike conditions.
Major Adamson, I can't seem to get in the door.
Laurie, I'll have to ask you to come with me.
Why? What's the problem?
I can't tell you that. It is quite urgent.
I would like to use the bathroom 
The access code's been changed. Your card won't work anymore.
What?!
Please.
Weve been pawns in someones game. They tricked us into bringing the money to King. Not just elaborate. Cocksure.
And expensive. Cost three million plus.
Do we have the range of Renards plane?
Anywhere in this circle. Iran, Iraq, Pakistan, Syria, Afghanistan...
Marvellous.
The parcels in the post.
Its heading for the oil terminal.
Where it can do the most damage.
Any word from him?
Still no contact yet.
Warm.
Is it?
So beautiful. So smooth, so warm.
How would you know?
Why are you like this? Because Bond is dead? Its what you wanted.
Of course...
He was a...good lover?
What do you think?
This is the end.
No. It is the beginning. The world will never be the same.
Everythings under control up here. Are you ready?
Yes. Au revoir...
Ill send someone out.
Could...could you come?
Perhaps this isnt the time...
Please.
Your people? Your people will leave you here to rot just like you left me. You and my father. He didnt think my life was worth the chump change he spent on a day at the stock market.
Your father...
Is nothing. His kingdom he stole from my mother. The kingdom I will rightly take back.
Now you know how it feels. To be locked away, to wonder if theyre coming for you, if anyone will ever come for you.
Someone will come.
Who? Bond? Bond is dead.
What?
To haul some cargo. My nephew, he is Captain of a sub in the Black Sea Fleet.
No! Bond!
Bond!
What is this place?
Former KGB surveillance post. The Dye Factory was just a front; now it turns a good profit.
In the good old days, the KGB had three or four spots where our submarines could surface without anyone knowing. But Yevgeny is supposed to be loading cargo.
What class sub does your nephew run?
Cclass.
Valentin Zukovsky.
BondJamesBond. What brings you here?
You, of course. I need some information.
Bond, Im a civilian. This is my place. Used to be the royal familys, now its mine. I run my little business, I stay out of trouble...
Mafia warlords, Diplomats and spies, consortiums from every country in the world. A nice little rats nest.
Have some of the rats nest caviar. From my own fishery. They buy my caviar, drink my champagne, lose to my House.
See? Youre upsetting my customers. What do you want?
How does a terrorist like Renard supply his men with stateoftheart Russian Army weapons?
What? This is not possible.
If I remember my Cyrillic that says 101st airborne division.
Where did you get this?
Off a highpowered Paraski that was trying to kill me.
That too. Everyone does what they can to survive.
How high up does this...arms dealing go?
Bond. If someone wants you dead, it is Renard. Our government has nothing to gain by killing you.
But you would have something to gain by killing Robert King. And stopping his pipeline.
What are doing, Bond? Trying to impress this innocent thing?
Shes no innocent. This is my nuclear consultant.
Ah, I see. A purely...plutonic relationship.
Really Bond, couldnt you find a nice Russian scientist with hair growing out of his ears?
Whats your business with Elektra King?
I thought you were the one in her business.
She dropped a million and half dollars to the House  your House. And you didnt even bat an eyelid. She was paying you off. What for?
As ever you are the spy who has to see a plot wherever he looks.
That is 5,000 dollars of Beluga ruined!
You are out of your league. Shes working with Renard.
Now...where were we?
A rope!
No. The truth! She thought I was dead  those blades were meant for you. What do you know that she would kill you for?
Alright, alright! Sometimes I smuggle machinery for her. Russian stuff.
And the payoff on the tables?
A special job. A...a...a submarine.
Wheres the sub going?!
No! Get me out!
This is too big for even you. Where is it?
This is a family matter! If my nephew is in danger, we do it my way, or nothing! Now get me out!
So. My way. No MI6, no Interpol. Just you, me and my people.
Where?
Istanbul.
Mother of God.
The right kind of explosion in the right spot  it would block the Bosphorus, cut off the Black Sea.
The Maidens Tower.
How appropriate.
Id heard there were some renovations there...no one would look for a sub in that place in a million years.
I met you at my fathers funeral.
Yes.
I havent been able to recall a single moment of that day...until now.
Funerals arent exactly memorable.
God no. All those horrible loved ones and relatives. I dont want to talk to those people. I just want to...talk to my father. I loved him. Im not sure he knew that.
Is that why you want to finish the pipeline?
Partially, yes.
Who is he?
My bodyguard. He follows me everywhere. Hes decisive, vigilant. And he makes an excellent omelette.
How long has he been with you?
Since the kidnapping. Why do you ask?
Does this look familiar to you?
Its my fathers pin. He wore it everyday of his life.
Are you trying to break my heart? Or is it just your way with women?
Its not the pin your father wore. Its an exact duplicate. Inside is a tiny electrical detonator. We have reason to believe the assassin had an inside accomplice, someone who worked at this company.
If youve come here to look after me, Mr. Bond, thank you, but no thank you. I have two bodyguards, I dont need a third...
The killer doesnt want to see this pipeline continue, doesnt want to see you take over...
Thats every man within a five mile radius. Including you. Thats why youre here, isnt it? You think I cant do it. You think Im going to screw up. Or get myself killed.
I think running this pipeline would be a difficult job for anyone. Especially Kings daughter.
You are wrong, Mr. Bond. In fact, I am the only person who can do it.
I have to check the upper lines. Gabor will drive you back.
Always wanted to see the upper lines.
You dont take no for an answer, do you?
No.
Oh my God...were buried alive...
Were alright.
I cant stay here.
Youre not going to.
No! It will cave in!
Its the only way out...
I cant stay.
I know.
The way I acted, in the snow...you must think Im a coward.
I think youre one of the bravest people Ive ever met.
What is it?
...you should rest.
James...
I have to go.
Then take me with you.
No. Youll be safe here.
I dont want to be safe!
I have to go to work.
Vodka martini.
Two. Shaken not stirred.
What the hell are you doing here?
Someone wants to kill me, Id rather die looking him straight in the eye. What are you doing here? Looking for a woman a little more your type? How about that one?
If this little show is for my benefit, Ill take you home right now.
You had your chance, James. Now Im looking for a bigger thrill.
I understand its normally good practice to get the feel of the cards before going off the deep end.
Really?
Surely you believe in living dangerously.
Not at that price. Time to surrender.
You knew when you first saw me. You knew it would be like this.
Shush.
How did you survive?
I used my body on the guards. It gave me control. I got to a gun and I took my chance. Ive never told anyone that.
Whats wrong with you? Are you crazy?
A little. Does it matter? After all, whats the point of living if you cant feel alive? Isnt that right, Elektra? Isnt that your motto?
What are you talking about?
Or did you steal it from your old friend Renard?
...what?
We had a runin, he and I. He knew about us, he knew about my shoulder, he knew exactly where to hurt me...
Are you saying...Renard is the man whos trying to kill me?
You can drop the act, its over.
I dont know what youre talking about!
I think you do.
How dare you! How dare you! That animal!? That monster!? He disgusts me! You disgust me! So he knew where to hurt you, is that it? You had a sling on your arm at the funeral! I didnt have to sleep with you to find that out.
He used your exact words.
You knew. You knew all the time, that he was out there, that he was coming for me, and you lied. You used me, you used me as bait. You made love to me  what, to pass the time as you waited for him to strike?
Im coming with you.
You do what you have to do, but Ive called in M. Shes en route from London even now.
I could have given you the world.
Not interested.
Wheres M?
Soon shell be everywhere.
All this, because you fell for Renard?
Five more turns and your neck will break.
Since I was a child, Ive always had a power over men. When I realized my father wouldnt rescue me from the kidnappers, I knew I had to form a new alliance.
You turned Renard.
Just like you...only you were even easier.
So you killed your father.
He killed me! He killed me the day he refused to pay my ransom.
Was this all about the oil?
It is my oil! Mine and my familys!
It runs in my veins, thicker than blood. Im going to redraw the map. And when I am through the whole world will know my name, my grandfathers name, the glory of my people.
Noone will believe this meltdown was an accident.
Know what happens when a man is strangled?
Elektra, its not too late. Eight million people neednt die.
One... last... screw?
Oh James.
Beautiful, isnt it?
Yes.
Today, of all days, the sun decides to shine.
Perhaps Sir Robert had a word with the Man Upstairs.
A word? Im sure by now hes engineered a hostile takeover.
You knew him well?
He was my father.
Im sorry.
He died before he could complete his lifelong dream. I intend to finish it for him.
I see my friend Davidov ran into some difficulty.
Indeed.
Revenge isnt so hard to fathom. Whats clever is getting someone else to pay for it.
Not many people in this world have that kind of fortune.
Who is it?
You think I fear death? I welcome it. I get on my knees and pray for it. You, on the other hand, you have something to live for, no? Shes beautiful isnt she? You should have seen her before. Flawless, and still so innocent, not such a whore in bed...
You will never touch her. You will never get near her.
Have you forgotten who saved your life in Geneva?
Consider me ungrateful.
Its I who should thank you  for taking that money back to MI6. So distressing for M. An explosion inside her lair.
Shell get over it.
You even brought the plane for us. We really couldnt have done it without you.
In case youve forgotten. Im dead already.
Havent you heard the news? So is she.
Not the usual Swiss procedure, Mr. Bond, but you understand, a man in my position..
Which is neutral, no doubt.
I did not get the report from an MI6 agent.
Who did you get it from?
I am just a middle man. I am doing the honourable thing and returning the money to its rightful owner...
And we know how difficult that can be for the Swiss.
Your last chance. Take the money.
Your last chance. Give me the name.
Stripped of all your weaponry, you still threaten me?
The name?
I cant tell you... Alright, alright! But you must protect me!
Constructions not exactly my line.
Quite the opposite, in fact.
Old friend?
Since Oxford. I knew him when he had nothing but a brilliant mind and enough guts to conquer the world. Hes a man of great integrity.
Who buys classified reports for three million pounds.
Elektra? Running King Industries? Ive known that girl all her life. Im not sure she knows what shes walking into.
Shes not a girl anymore.
Ive scheduled a medical for you.
Its barely a scratch. The Dome broke my fall.
Well, at least it turned out to have some purpose.
007. What do you know of the Caspian Sea?
Caviar capital of the world. Matchless beluga. Firm, yet subtle. Largest landlocked body of water on Earth. Oilrich. Hitler wanted it. Stalin beat him to it.
And now its up for grabs, a goldrush. Far more oil than anyone thought.
Who told you to look at Elektras files?
I took the initiative.
You havent been given an assignment in this case.
I was the one who brought that money in...
Im well aware of your stake in this, 007. If you have a point, get to it.
The amount of money that killed Robert King is the same amount as the ransom demand for Elektra.
Its a message. He wants us to know hes back.
Who?
Claude Serrault. A.K.A...
Renard.
Sir Robert tried to deal with the kidnapping with his own...resources, at first. When Elektras ear was delivered to him in the post, he came to me. I advised against paying the ransom. I knew it was Renard. I played it out as long as possible to get a fix on him.
Sacrifice the girl to take out the terrorist?
How many deaths is he responsible for? How many innocent people? You may only get one shot at a man like Renard. Same circumstances, Id do the same again.
He survived?
The doctor who saved him couldnt get it out, so Renard killed him. When Interpol found the xrays, there was mild jubilation. Effectively, hes a dead man.
The bullet is moving through the medulla oblongata, killing off his sense of touch. He feels no pain. He can push himself harder, longer than any normal man.
That which does not kill me makes me stronger.
Now Robert is dead. He got his revenge.
Hes not through yet. Renard doesnt blow up five million dollars unless he knows theres more coming in. Hes working for someone. Someone who wants to stop the pipeline. And they hired the perfect killer. One with a vendetta against King...and you.
Get out to the pipeline. Find the insider who switched the pin. If your instincts are right, Renard will be back. He hasnt completed the job. The pipeline is still going forward, and we have Elektra to thank for that.
The worm on the hook again.
The report King bought. Its a manual. Renards men used it to remove this radio tracking device from the warhead.
Then Robert was right about a Russian connection.
Theyre getting their weapons from the Russians, but where are they getting the money to buy the weapons? I cant help thinking...the person close to King, the one who switched that pin...
The inside man?
Is maybe...the inside woman.
Dislocated collar bone. If any more tendons snap... It wont just be two weeks out of action.
I need you to pass me fit now, Molly.
Its just a scratch.
James. It wouldnt really be...
Then maybe Id be... open to that.
Perhaps after this ... test?
...yes?...
I could come for a second opinion?
You new?
Yes. Viktor Davidov, Miss...?
Doctor. Jones. Christmas Jones. No jokes, Ive heard them all.
Dont know any doctor jokes.
What happened to Len Tashka?
Couldnt make it. Splitting headache.
The soldiers may give you a hard time. Whatever. If we werent around, theyd have their whole nuclear arsenal lying by the roadsides, rotting in the sun.
He is an impostor. Theres no Davidov at Miratom.
Heres your imposter. Hes paid off the men on the plane outside. Theyre not taking the bomb to any Russian facility, theyre flying it wherever he tells them.
Shame you had to spot I wasnt the real thing.
So who are you?
Bond 
They wont get far. Every warhead has a locator card. A Miratom device. Emits a highpitched signal on Russian emergency frequencies. We can track the bomb.
With this?
When this is over we should bury the hatchet. Celebrate. A champagne dinner?
When this is over our bodies may be blown to smithereens.
Alright then, brunch.
The plutonium is missing. Theyve taken the core!
Then its no longer a bomb?
Its a bomb alright. Were still dead if the trigger charge goes off...
What the hell were you doing? You nearly killed us!
I did kill us. She thinks were dead. And she thinks she got away with it.
What the hell are you talking about?
Its part of some plan. She dresses it up like a terrorist attack. The explosion covers up the theft of the plutonium.
Whos she?
Elektra King.
Elektra King? Are you insane? This is her pipeline.
Makes her look even more innocent.
What would she want with weapons grade plutonium?
I was hoping you could tell me.
What is it?
She just upped the stakes. All her chips are on the table now. And Ms life is part of the bet.
Nuclear.
Not just nuclear. Powered by a nuclear reactor. Hes not loading any cargo. They want the sub. The sub itself. Put weapons grade plutonium inside the subs reactor: Instant, catastrophic meltdown.
Made to look just like an accident.
But why? Eight million people would die, the land irradiated for a hundred years. A cloud of radiation the size of Europe...
Because an explosion like that would kill all the other pipelines. There would be only one way to get the oil out of the Caspian and pump it to the world...
The King pipeline.
Elektra would control it all.
Zukovsky...
If I dont get to the Boa before he gets to Maidens Tower, M is dead.
Is there another way?
We go down to the torpedo bay.
Hes sealed himself in.
Hes going to insert the plutonium.
Do you know what youre doing?
Like riding a bike.
What kind of bikes did you ride?
Just wanted to put him on edge...
Count to twenty. When you get to twenty open the hatch. It can only be opened for a few seconds or well sink.
But what if...
Count to twenty. Ill be there.
Weve got to get out.
We cant.
I love Christmas in Turkey.
So isnt it time you unwrapped your present?
As for you, my galvanized friend, you want a heart! You don't know how lucky you are not to have one. Hearts will never be practical until they can be made unbreakable. I could have been a world figure, a power among men, a  a successful wizard, had I not been obstructed by a heart.
But I still want one.
Yes  ....
Stop that dog!
This is a highly irregular procedure! This is absolutely unprecedented!
Oh! Help me! The balloon's going up!
 Ruined my exit!
Help!
Uh  now, please don't be angry with me. I'll  I'll do anything you say, only... only if you don't shout at me. It makes me nervous!
It makes you nervous?
Yes.
What about us?
Well, I 
What about the heart that you promised Tin Man ?
Well, I 
 And the courage that you promised Cowardly Lion?
Well, I 
Well 
You promised us real things  a real...
Therefore, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Universitatus Committeeatum e plurbis unum, I hereby confer upon you the honorary degree of Th.D.
Th.D.?
How can I ever thank you enough?
Well, you can't. As for you, my fine friend  you're a victim of disorganized thinking. You are under the unfortunate delusion that simply because you run away from danger, you have no courage. You're confusing courage with wisdom. Back where I come from, we have men who are called heroes. Once a year, they take their fortitude out of mothballs and parade it down the main street of the city. And they have no more courage than you have. But! They have one thing that you haven't got! A medal! Therefore  for meritorious....
Beautiful! What an echo!
It's empty. The tinsmith forgot to give me a heart.
I'm not afraid of her. I'll see you get safely to the Wizard now, whether I get a brain or not! Stuff a mattress with me! Hah!
I'll see you reach the Wizard, whether I get a heart of not. Beehive  bah! Let her try and make a beehive out of me! You know  Hmm? What's that?
No, sir!
No, sir!
That's right.
We do.
To Oz?
To Oz!
Animals that  that eat straw?
Some  but mostly lions, and tigers, and bears.
I'd be gentle as a lizard 
I'd be clever as a gizzard 
Then I'm sure to get a brain 
A heart 
Come on  come on 
Hurry  hurry 
Oh! Oh, come on, come on!
Look  you can see it here. It's wonderful!
Emerald City!
Hey, Dorothy!
Dorothy!
Oh  oh, poor Dorothy!
Don't cry  you'll rust yourself again!
Oh! We ought to try and carry Dorothy.
I don't think I could, but we could try.
Let's.
Yes.
Oh  now look at him! This is terrible!
Here, Tin Man  help me.
Oh, this is terrible  can't budge her an inch! This is a spell, this is!
It's the Wicked Witch! What'll we do? Help! HELP!
It's no use screaming at a time like this! Nobody will hear you! Help!
Ha  ha  ha 
Ho  ho ho
Did you hear that? He'll announce us at once! I've as good as got my brain!
I can fairly hear my heart beating!
Oh, did  did you see that?
Oh  look out.
You know something?
Oh, I think I see a jijik And he's fuzzy and he's furry I haven't got a brain But I think I ought to worry!
I haven't got a heart But I got a palpitation.
It's a whozis.
It's a whozis?
Help! Help! Help! Help! Help!
Oh! Well, what happened to you?
They tore my legs off, and they threw them over there! Then they took my chest out, and they threw it over there!
Well, that's you all over.
Who do you suppose they were? And where did they take her? A fine thing  to go to pieces at a time like this!
Now, now, don't fret.
Oh, dear, dear.
We'll get you together!
Oh, don't worry about me. I'm all right. We must worry about Dorothy.
But how can we find her? We don't even know where she is. Look! There's....
...to Dorothy!
Oh 
Come on, fellows!
Oh, I hate to think of her in there. We've got to get her out.
Don't cry now. We haven't got the oilcan with us and you've been squeaking enough as it is.
No, you don't.
Oh, no!
Whew! That wasn't my plan  but something happened, didn't it?
You put up a great fight, Lion.
Yeah 
I don't know what we'd have done without you.
Oh  upstairs, quickly!
Go on!
Hey  what about Dorothy?
Yes  how about Dorothy?
...Tin Man!
Ohhhh  it's me!
...junk!
Ohhhh  yes...yes, sir  YYes, your Honor. You see, a while back, we were walking down the Yellow Brick Road, and 
Quiet!
Ohhhhhh!
...of the West.
BBBBBBut if we do that, we'll have to kill her to get it!
Mr. Gale!
Howdy, Miss Gulch.
I want to see you and your wife right away....
... about Dorothy.
Dorothy? Well, what has Dorothy done?
What's she done? I'm all but lame from the bite on my leg!
You mean she bit you?
No, her dog!
Oh, she bit her dog, eh?
NO!
Sneaking up on me, eh? Why!
Here  here. Go 'way and let us alone!
Oh, scared, huh?
I haven't slept in weeks.
Why don't you try counting sheep?
That doesn't do any good  I'm afraid of 'em.
Dorothy!
Dorothy! You can't sleep here! You can't sleep in the middle of a field!
Not even a rhinoceros?
Imposserous!
From now on, we're on enemy ground. You should have something to protect yourself with.
She  she can have my Witch Remover.
What's that? What's that? Take it away  take it away  Take it away!
Hold still  hold still 
It's a whatzis.
It's a whatzis?
Whozat?
Whozat?
Now, let' s see  this goes  Oh, I wish I were better at puzzles.
Wait a minute. This is the left one. He walks bad enough already.
Oh, poor Dorothy. We may never see her again.
There. Now, that's the best we can do without any pins.
Yeah 
...I  I  I hope my strength holds out.
I hope your tail holds out. Oh 
No? Now, wait a minute.
You don't neither 
Where do we go now?
Yeah.
...the door! Open the door! Open the door! Open the door! Open the door!
Don't push!
You don't get around us that easy!
Not nohow!
Comin' to think of it, forty winks wouldn't be bad.
Don't you start it, too!
What if it were a brontosaurus?
I'd show him who was King of the Fores'!
Would...would it do any good if I roared?
Who at?
I don't know.
Wait a minute, fellahs. I was just thinkin'. I really don't want to see the Wizard this much. I better wait for you outside.
What's the matter?
What happened?
Somebody pulled my tail.
Oh, you did it yourself!
I  Oh 
Here  Come on.
What was that?
They sure knocked the stuffings out of you, didn't they?
Don't stand there talking! Put me together! We've got to find Dorothy!
I've got a plan how to get in there.
Fine. He's got a plan
And you're going to lead us.
Yeah. Me?
Yes, you.
I  I  I  I  gotta get her outta there?
That's right.
All right, I'll go in there for Dorothy  Wicked Witch or no Wicked Witch  guards or no guards  I'll tear 'em apart. I may not come out alive, but I'm going in there. There's only one thing I want you fellows to do.
Up!
Now...
Come on  I've got another idea.
Do  do you think it'll be polite  dropping in like this?
Stop pushing!
Oh  I was only trying to help. Ohhh!
Where  where do we go now?
This way! Come on!
You humbug!
Yeah!
Real courage. That's what we want.
You do? boys, you're aiming low. You not only surprise, but you grieve me.
Yeah.
Ah 
Dorothy next!
Yes. Dorothy  ah  Dor 
...excellence to the Miracle Wonderland Carnival Company  until one day, while performing spectacular feats of stratospheric skill never before attempted by civilized man, an unfortunate phenomena occurred. The balloon failed to return to the fair.
It did?
Who killed my sister? Who killed the Witch of the East? Was it you? Answer me!
Leave her alone!
You stay out of this! I'm here for vengeance! So it was you, was it? You killed her,....
...ting the ruby slippers?
The slippers  yes.....the slippers!
The ruby slippers! What have you done with them? Give them back to me, or I'll 
It's too late! There they....
You stay out of this, Glinda, or I'll fix you as well!
Oh, rubbish! You have no power here. Be gone, before somebody drops a house on you, too.
Very well  I'll bide my time  and as for you, my fine lady, it's true, I can't attend to you here and now as I'd like, but just try to stay out of my way....
...don't talk.
It's pleasant down that way, too.
Down? No, you see, I'm  Well,  I'm 
Oh, well, here  let me help you.
Oh, that's very kind of you  very kind.
...yes.
Ohhhh 
Ohh!
Whhhooops! Haha  there goes some of me again!
Oh  does it hurt you?
Oh, no  I just keep picking it up and putting it back in again.
Ohhh 
My, it's good to be....
...free!
Oh! Oh! Ohhh!
Did I scare you?
No, No  I  I just thought you hurt yourself.
Wonderful! Why, if our Scarecrow back in Kansas could do that, the crows'd be scared to pieces!
They would?
Umhmm.
Where's Kansas?
That's where I live. And I want to get back there so badly I'm going all the way to Emerald City to get the Wizard of Oz to help me.
You're going to see a Wizard?
Umhmm.
Do you think if I went with you this Wizard would give me some brains?
I couldn't say. But even if he didn't, you'd be no worse off than you are now.
Yes  that's true.
But maybe you'd better not. I've got a witch mad at me, and you might get into trouble.
Witch? Huh! I'm not afraid of a witch! I'm not afraid of anything  except a lighted match.
I don't blame you for that.
But I'd face a whole box full of them for the chance of getting some brains. Look  I won't be any trouble, because I don't eat a thing  and I won't try to manage things, because I can't think. Won't you take me with you?
Hooray! We're off to see a Wizard!
Oh  well  you're not starting out very well.
Oh, I'll try! Really, I will.
To Oz?
To Oz!
Oh, dear  I keep forgetting I'm not in Kansas.
Come along, Dorothy  you don't want any of those apples. Hmm!
Hooray! I guess that did it! Help yourself.
Oh 
Why, it's a man! A man made out of tin!
What?
Yes. Oh  look 
Oil can what?
Oil can? Oh  oh, here it is!
He said his mouth.
Here  here 
The other side....
Yes  there.
But you've just been saying how much you want a heart.
And I'll keep the oilcan handy.
...just that the Witch is so wicked. I don't think you two ought to come with me because you'll get into trouble.
Oh, you don't think we're going to stand by and let her get away with fireballs and bees, do you?
Oh, you're the best friends anybody ever had! And it's funny, but I feel as if I've known you all the time. But I couldn't have, could I?
I don't see how. You weren't around when I was stuffed and sewn together, were you?
I don't like this forest! It's  it's dark and creepy!
Of course, I don't know, but I think it'll get darker before it gets lighter.
Do  do you suppose we'll meet any wild animals?
Oh, that's too bad. Don't you think the Wizard could help him, too?
I don't see why not. Why don't you come along with us? We're on our way to see the Wizard now. To get him a heart.
...along.
Oh, no  please. I have to rest for just a minute. Toto!
It does help. Dorothy, you're waking up!
Oh 
Yes  there 
Oh  here quick  oh!  we'll oil him up.
 A hot water bottle would be good if we had one.
Oh, he's been crying! Why have you been 
Dear, whatever shall we do?
Well, we'd better hurry if we're going to see the Wizard!
Oh 
Looks like we came a long way for nothing.
Oh  and I was so happy! I thought I was on my way home!
Oh  Oh 
Oh  are you  are you all right?
Oh, come on now  everybody 
Did you just hear what I just heard?
No  No  No  No!
Ohh! OHH! OHH!
Help! I'm burning! I'm burning! I'm burning! Help! Help! Help!
Now lookit, Dorothy, you ain't using your head about Miss Gulch. Think you didn't have any brains at all.
I have so got brains.
Well, why don't you use them? When you come home, don't go by Miss Gulch's place. Then Toto won't get in her garden, and you won't get in no trouble. See?
Oh, Hunk, you just won't listen, that's all.
Well, your head ain't made of straw, you know.
Why, Zeke,  you're just as scared as I am!
What's the matter  gonna let a little old pig make a coward out of you?
What  what did you do that for? I didn't bite him.
No, but you tried to.
It's bad enough picking on a straw man, but when you go around picking on poor little dogs 
Well, you didn't have to go and hit me, did you? Is my nose bleeding?
Well, of course not. My goodness, what a fuss you're making. Well, naturally, when you go around picking on things weaker than you are  Why, you're nothing but a great big coward!
You're right  I am a coward.
...has been simply unbearable.
Oh.
Yeh, it's sad, believe me, Missy When you're born to be a sissy, Without the vim and verve. But I could show my prowess  Be a lion not a mouess  If I only had the nerve I'm afraid there's no denyin' I'm just a dandelion  A fate I don't deserve. I'd be brave as a blizzard 
A home 
The nerve.
It's beautiful, isn't it? Just like I knew it would be. He really must be a wonderful Wizard to live in a City like that!
Well, come on, then. What are we waiting for?
Yes  let's run!
Yes.
Oh  unusual weather we're having, ain't it?
Look! He's rusted again. Oh, give me the oil can  quick! Ohoh, quick!
Ho  ho ho  ho
Hah!
Who's her? Who's her?
It's the Witch! She's followed us here!
Oh, but  but please. It's very important.
And  and I got a permanent just for the occasion.
I'll be home in time for supper!
In another hour, I'll be King of the Forest. Long Live the King! If....
Your Majesty, if you were king You wouldn't be afraid of anything?
Not nobody, not nohow!
How about a hippopotamus?
Why, I'd thrash him from top to bottomamus!
Supposin' you met an elephant?
I'd wrap him up in cellophant!
I'd be too scared to ask him for it.
Oh, well, then  we'll ask him for you.
I'd sooner wait outside.
But why? Why?
Because I'm still scared!
Oh, come on.
Ohh!
Oh  Oh, come on.
Huh? What'd he say?
Does it work?
No, but it's wonderful for threatening with.
Oh 
That noise don't come from no ordinary bird.
It may be just a cricket Or a critter in the trees.
As Monarch of the Forest I don't like the situation.
Are you gonna stand around And let 'em fill us full of horror?
I'd like to roar 'em down  But I think I lost my roarer.
Oh  Oh  Oh! Toto  Toto!
Did they hurtcha?
Lion, darling  I knew you'd come!
They're coming back!
Ohhh!
...Ain't it the truth! Ain't it the truth!
Oh  oh  they're all wonderful.
Oh, now I'll never get home!
Stay with us, then, Dorothy. We all love you. We don't want you to go.
Oh, that's very kind of you  but this could never be like Kansas. Auntie Em must have stopped wondering what happened to me by now. Oh, Scarecrow, what am I going to do?
Well  I would never've found it if it hadn't been for you.
I think I'll miss you most of all.
Oh, my!
Lions and tigers and bears!
Oh, my!
Lions and tigers and bears!
Oh, my!
Lions and tigers and bears!
Oh, my!
Lions and tigers and bears!
Oh, my!
Oil can.....Oil can....
Did you say something?
Oil can....
Where do you want to be oiled first?
My mouth  my mouth!
...m...m...my, my, my, my goodness  I can talk again! Oh  oil my arms, please  oil my elbows.
Oh...
Oh 
...Oh, did that hurt?
No  it feels wonderful. I've held that axe up for ages. Oh 
Oh, goodness! How did you ever get like this?
Oh  well, about a year ago  I was chopping that tree  minding my own business  when suddenly it started to rain....
...and right in the middle of a chop, I...I rusted solid. And I've been that way ever since.
Well, you're perfect now.
My...my neck. My...my neck. Perfect? Oh  bang on my chest if you think I'm perfect. Go ahead  bang on it!
Oh !
Oh 
All hollow. Oh 
Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, are you all right?
I'm afraid I'm a little rusty yet.
Oh, dear  That was wonderful! You know  we were just wondering why you couldn't come to Emerald City with us to ask the Wizard of Oz for a heart.
Emerald City? Why, that's a long and dangerous journey. And it might rain on the way.
Well, suppose the Wizard wouldn't get me one when we got there?
Oh, but he will! He must! We've come such a long way already.
Ohh  what's that? Oh 
Oh! They're  they're gone now.
Oh, goodness! Did any of them sting you?
I  I guess they tried to, but they bent their stingers.
Oh, dear. I don't know what I'd do if a whole swarm kept  Oh! Oh! Oh, there's one on me!
Oh  I'll get it!
Oh! Oh!
Oh 
Oh, see  I killed it. Oh, I killed that poor little honey bee!
Ohoh
And I was standing over there rusting for the longest time.
Still, I wish I could remember. But, I guess it doesn't matter anyway. We know each other now, don't we?
We might.
Oh 
And bears!
What sort of an animal is that?
Itititit  it's a huge one!
And him a brain.
I'm sure he could give you some courage.
Can't that female take no for an answer?
Oh 
Oh, he's just ascared again.
Don't you know the Wizard's going to give you some courage?
No. Why only  Oh 
Oh! Oh, Tin Man! Oh!
Oh! Something bit me, too!
Now come on  you're acting silly 
Dorothy!
I knew you would!
Tomorrow? Oh, but I want to go home now.
You've had plenty of time already!
Ahh  Oh, it ticks! Listen!
Yes...!
...yes.
Look  it ticks!
Now I know I've got a heart  'cause it's breaking.
Oh  Goodbye, Lion. You know, I know it isn't right, but I'm going to miss the way you used to holler for help before you found your courage.
That dog's a menace to the community. I'm taking him to the sheriff and make sure he's destroyed.
Destroyed? Toto? Oh, you can't! You mustn't! Auntie Em! Uncle Henry! You won't let her, will you?
Now you're seeing reason.
No 
Here's what I'm taking him in  so he can't attack me again.
Oh, no, no! I won't let you take him! You go away, you....! Oooh, I'll bite you myself!
Here! I've got an order! Let me have...
Stop her!
Let's see  you're  you're travelling in disguise. No, that's not right. I  you're  you're going on a visit. No, I'm wrong. That's...You're  running away.
How did you guess?
Professor Marvel never guesses  he knows! Now, why are you running away?
Why 
No, no  now don't tell me. They  they don't understand you at home. They don't appreciate you. You want to see other lands  big cities  big mountains  big oceans 
Why, it's just like you could read what was inside of me.
Yes 
Please, Professor, why can't we go along with you?
Oh, yes  you  you wanted to go home, huh?
Oh, no, I wanted to go along with you.
Oh 
Nobody cares about me at home. They wouldn't even miss me.
Aw, come, come, come 
No, they won't  honestly.
Oh 
Auntie Em was even going to let them kill Toto yesterday for biting Miss Gulch. Oh, please, Professor, why can't we go with you and see all the Crowned Heads of Europe?
Do you know any? Oh, you mean the thing  Yes, well, I  I never do anything without consulting my crystal first. Let's....
That's our farm!
Oh  yes.
...her face is careworn.
Yes...That's Aunt Em.
Her  her name is Emily.
That's right. What's she doing?
Well, I  I can't quite see. Why, she's crying.
Oh 
Someone has hurt her  someone has just about broken her heart.
Me?
I had the measles once  and she stayed right by me every minute.
Uhhuh.
What's she doing now?
...room 
Has it poppies on the wall....
...paper?
I said it had poppies on the wall paper! Eh  she's  What's this? Why, she's  she's putting her hand on her heart  she's  she's dropping down on the....
...bed.
Oh, no  no!
That's all  the Crystal's gone dark.
Oh, you....
...you don't suppose she could really be sick, do you? Oh  Oh, I've got to go home right away!
But  what's this? I thought you were going along with me.
Oh, no, no, I have to get to her right....
Oh 
But you couldn't have been, could you?
Are you a good witch, or a bad witch?
Who, me? Why, I'm not a witch at all. I'm Dorothy Gale from Kansas.
Oh! Well....
Toto's my dog.
Well, I'm a little muddled. The Munchkins called me because a new witch has just dropped a house on the Wicked Witch of the East. And there's the house, and here you are, and that's all...
The Munchkins are happy because you have freed them from the Wicked Witch of the East.
Oh. But, if you please  what are Munchkins?
The little people who live in this land  it's Munchkinland, and you are their national heroine, my dear. It's all right  you may all come out and thank her. It's all right now  you may all come out.
I thought you said she was dead.
That was her sister  the Wicked Witch of the East. This is the Wicked Witch of the West. And she's worse than the other one was.
Pooh  what a smell of sulphur! I'm afraid you've made rather a bad enemy of the Wicked Witch of the West. The sooner you get out of Oz altogether, the safer you'll sleep, my dear.
Oh, I'd give anything to get out of Oz altogether  but which is the way back to Kansas? I can't go the way I came.
No  that's true. The only person who might know would be the great and wonderful Wizard of Oz himself!
The Wizard of Oz? Is he good or is he wicked?
Oh, very good, but very mysterious. He lives in the Emerald City, and that's a long journey from here. Did you bring your broomstick with you?
No, I'm afraid I didn't.
Well, then, you'll have to walk. The Munchkins will see you safely to the border of Munchkinland. And remember, never let those ruby slippers off your feet for a moment, or you will be at the mercy of the Wicked Witch of the West.
But, how do I start for Emerald City?
It's always best to start at the beginning  and all you do is follow the Yellow Brick Road.
Oh, will you help me? Can you help me?
You don't need to be helped any longer. You've always had the power to go back to Kansas.
I have?
...Toto, too?
Toto, too.
Oh, now?
Whenever you wish.
Oh, dear  that's too wonderful to be true! Oh, it's  it's going to be so hard to say goodbye. I love you all, too. Goodbye, Tin Man. Oh, don't cry. You'll rust so dreadfully. Here  here's your oilcan. Goodbye.
Are you ready now?
Yes. Say goodbye, Toto.
Yes, I'm ready now.
Then close your eyes, and tap your heels together three times.
And think to yourself  "There's no place like home; there's no place like home; there's no place like home."
There's no place like home. There's no place like home. There's no place like home. There's no place like home.
...didn't you?
No  No! It was an accident! I didn't mean to kill anybody!....
What are you going to do with my dog? Give him back to me!
All in good time, my little pretty  all in good time.
Oh, please give me back my dog!
Certainly  certainly  when you give me those slippers.
But the Good Witch of the North told me not to.
Very well! Throw that basket in the river and drown him!
No! No  no! Here  you can have your old slippers  but give me back Toto.
That's a good little girl. I knew you'd see reason.
Ahh! Ah!
I'm sorry. I didn't do it! Can I still have my dog?
No! Fool, that I am! I should have remembered  those slippers will never come off, as long as...
Run, Toto, run!
Catch him, you fool!
Oh! Oh, it feels like my joints are rusted. Listen, Dorothy, don't let Hunk kid you about Miss Gulch. She's just a poor sourfaced old maid that  she ain't got no heart left. You know, you should have a little more heart yourself, and have pity on her.
Well, gee, I try and have a heart.
Now look, here's something that really has a heart. This is the best invention I ever invented.
This?
Sure. It's to break up winds, so we don't have no more dust storms. Can you imagine what it'll mean to this section of the country? I'll show you. It works perfectly now. Here's the principle. You see that fan  that sends up air currents into the sky. These air currents  Oh, stop it!
Oh!
Who did it? Now wait a minute.
Hickory!
Now what happened? I'll bet Hunk did that.
Oh! Oh, Zeke! Help! Help me, Zeke! Get me out of here! Help!
Are you all right, Dorothy?
Yes, I'm all right. Oh  I fell in and  and Zeke 
Uhhhh  yes...
I don't believe you!
No, I'm afraid it's true. There's no other Wizard except me.
Yesss  that...that's exactly so. I'm a humbug!
Oh ....
Frightened? You are talking to a man who has laughed in the face of death  sneered at doom and chuckled at catastrophe. I was petrified. Then suddenly the wind changed, and the balloon floated down into the heart of this noble city, where I was instantly acclaimed Oz, the First Wizard de Luxe!
Ohhh!
Times being what they were, I accepted the job,  retaining my balloon against the advent of a quick getaway. And in that balloon, my dear Dorothy, you and I will return to the land of E Pluribus Unum!
Oh! Come back! Don't go without me! Please come back!
I can't come back! I don't know how it works!
Oh 
Goodbye, folks!
Our echo.
Tap  tap  tap  tap  What was that  that  that? Our echo  echo  echo.
Oh, come on  come on! We'll soon find the Wizard!
The Wizard  The Wizard  The Great and Powerful Wizard of Oz  Oz  OzOz  Oz  Oz  Oz  Oz!
...have you come back?
Please, sir. We've done what you told us. We've brought you the broomstick of the Wicked Witch of the West. We melted her.
Oh ....
...resourceful!
Yes, sir. So we'd like you to keep your promise to us, if you please, sir.
Not so fast! Not....
If you were really great and powerful, you'd keep your promises!
Do you presume to criticize the....
...  Oz  has spoken!
Who are you?
Well, I  I  I am the Great and Powerful  Wizard of Oz.
You are?
As Mayor of the Munchkin City In the County of the Land of Oz I welcome you most regally
But we've got to verify it legally To see...
To see?
If she...
If she?
Is morally, ethic'ly
Then this is a day of Independence For all the Munchkins and their descendants!
If any!
Yes, let the joyous news be spread.
From now on you'll be history
You'll be hist...
Look at you, Zeke  you're just as white 
Here, here, what's all this jabberwapping when there's work to be done? I know three shiftless farm hands that'll be out of a job before they know it!
Well, Dorothy was walking along the 
I saw you tinkering with that contraption, Hickory. Now, you and Hunk get back to that wagon!
All right, Mrs. Gale. But some day they're going to erect a statue to me in this town, and 
Well, don't start posing for it now. Here, here  can't work on an empty stomach. Have some crullers.
Poor little orphan, and her Miss Gulch troubles. Gosh all hemlock  you know, she ought to have somebody to play with.
I know, but we all got to work out our own problems, Henry.
Yes.
Oh, I hope we got them in time.
Yes.
Uhh  yeah 
Now, we can't go against the law, Dorothy. I'm afraid poor Toto will have to go.
Aunt Em!
Fiftyseven, fiftyeight 
Just listen to what Miss Gulch did to Toto! She 
Dorothy, please! We're trying to count! Fiftyeight
Oh, but Aunt Em, she hit him over the 
Seventy  Dorothy, please!
Oh, but he doesn't do it every day  just once or twice a week. And he can't catch her old cat, anyway. And now she says she's gonna get the sheriff, and 
Dorothy! Dorothy! We're busy!
Oh  all right.
Auntie Em, really  you know what Miss Gulch said she was gonna do to Toto? She said she was gonna 
Now, Dorothy, dear, stop imagining things. You always get yourself into a fret over nothing.
No 
Now, you just help us out today, and find yourself a place where you won't get into any trouble.
Dorothy!
You wicked old witch! Uncle Henry, Auntie Em, don't let 'em take Toto! Don't let her take him  please!
 no place like home  there's no place like home  no place 
Dorothy. Dorothy, dear. It's Aunt Em, darling.
Oh, Auntie Em  it's you!
Yes, darling.
But I did leave you, Uncle Henry  that's just the trouble. And I tried to get back for days and days.
There, there, lie quiet now. You just had a bad dream.
No 
Oh, we dream lots of silly things when we 
No, Aunt Em  this was a real, truly live place. And I remember that some of it wasn't very nice....
Is this where we're going?
Of course not. We're going to Baltimore. It's much nicer in Baltimore.
Momma... are they angry with us.
No... No. It is just the English way.
I don't want to stay here.
They are English. They don't understand.
I wish dawdie was with us.
I know. Sleep now, Liebchen.
No, you listen. Get out!
Lady, I'm here to help you. This man is very dangerous. An armed criminal. He's got a gun, hasn't he?
You have no right here!
He'll live.
You might have killed him!
Find Fergie, check the barns. I'll watch these two.
Get back in there.
My son is out there!
Nobody's going to hurt your son...
She say where he is?
I don't think she knows.
What about Carter?
Tight. But I'm working on him.
Lean on him.
Weird, man. No fuckin' electricity. What do you figure they plug all their shit into?
They don't have any shit.
He's not in this building.
All right, where is he?
Never seen anything like that in all my years.
He's from... Ohio... My cousin.
We'll, them Ohio Amish sure must be different. Our Lancaster brethren, they just don't have that kind of fight in them.
John, lost control of himself. He... will be repentant.
You're Rachel Lapp, aren't you?
Yes. Samuel! We're going.
Who was that man?
His name is John Book.
Is the English dead?
No...
Looks dead...
That has no place in this house.
I know.
Didn't you hear Stoltzfus? What if he dies? Then the sheriff will come. They'll say we broke their laws 
We'll pray that he doesn't die! But if he does, then we'll find a way so no one knows!
Rachel, this is a man's life, we hold it in our hands.
I know God help me, I know that, Eli. But I tell you that if he's found here, the people who did this to him will come for Samuel.
Eli, John is a carpenter. As well as being a fine policeman.
Eh? Well then, maybe he can go to Zook's barnraising, eh? See how good a carpenter.
How can this be? How can you do such a thing? Is this plain? Is this the ordnung?
I have done nothing against the ordnung.
Eh? Nothing? Rachel, you bring this man to our house. With his gun of the hand. You bring fear to this house. Fear of English with guns coming after. You bring blood and whispers of more blood. Now English music... and you are dancing to English music! And you call this nothing?
I have committed no sin.
No sin? Maybe. Not yet. But, Rachel, it does not look... Don't you know there has been talk? Talk about you, not him. Talk about going to the Bishop. About having you... shunned!
That is idle talk.
Do not make light of it, Rachel. They can do it... quick! Like that! And then... then I can not sit at table with you. I can not take a thing from your hand. I... I can not go with you to meeting! Rachel, good Rachel, you must not go too far! Dear child!
I am not a child.
You are acting like one!
I will be the judge of that.
No! They will be the judge of that! And so will I... if you shame me!
You shame yourself.
No, Rachel...
I have to help him!
Everything okay?
Yes, thank you very much.
John said you're Amish.
Yes.
Oh.
Good morning.
You didn't have to...
I wanted to. you were kind to take us in last night. Anyway, I needed something to do. I was so angry with your brother. He's so... agaanisish!
Aganishish? Yeah, that sounds like John.
Just a minute. I'll pour you some coffee.
You're not carrying a bullwhip... how'd you manage to put my kids to work?
I made it a contest... the one who does best gets his cereal back first. Children like to help... they only need to be kept after a little bit.
What's so funny?
Fred. The way he looked when you screamed at him.
God, Fred...
At home you'd never hear a woman scream at a man that way.
No? Why not?
You just wouldn't. It's not the Amish way. But I think it would have done me good if I could have screamed at your brother last night.
Listen, I don't know what's going on or how you got mixed up with him, but don't you let that selfrighteous son of a bitch push you around, okay?
Did you find him?
Not yet.
Elaine, I've come to apologize for Lt. McElroy. He overstated the department's position.
He accused John of taking kickbacks. And you know anybody who knows John knows that's a goddamn lie!
Of course, Elaine. But as long as there's any question, better Johnny should come back and clear his name.
Better you should get off my front porch before I get my mace!
Elaine, I don't want to have to take you in for questioning. You've got his car, you were the last to see him 
I don't know where he is.
But... if you had to guess?
You know where he is.
Wrong.
You'd lie to protect him.
Probably.
You admit you're lying?
I admit I don't know where he is.
You're the first one he'll contact.
He's got my number.
Either you're a member of the club or you aren't, Elton. Tell me what you know...
What I know, Paul, is... He's going to take you out...
Anybody know about this?
I didn't even know about it.
Okay, Sam. Can you tell me what he looked like?
I got there late, John.
Let's just find Coalmine. Listen, Zenovich made a mistake. You didn't let anybody down. It happens 
It won't happen again.
Listen carefully, I wrote the Amish woman's name and address on my desk calendar, I want you to lose it for me, Now. Tonight.
What the hell are you talking about? What's happening.
Nothing. I'm not going to be around for a while. I'll call you when I can.
Johnny, what the fuck?
Listen to me Schaeffer's part of it. Maybe at the top of it.
Yeah... I can put it all together when I get back, 'Til then, you know nothing, understand? Business as usual...
I hear you.
Good. Take care of that woman's name for me. And watch your ass.
It's me.
Johnny! Where the hell have you been?
Never mind. I'm coming in to take care of business. How hot am I?
Too hot. Don't do it. Don't come in.
I'm coming.
Listen, Johnny, don't do anything stupid. You couldn't get within a mile of Schaeffer right now. So stay put... Stay in touch I'll let you know when maybe it makes sense.
You hear me?
I hear you. I'll stay in touch.
That's more like it. Where are you at, anyway?
Where I'm at is maybe 1890.
Say again?
Make that 1790.
I'm a police officer. I'm going to have to talk to the boy. What's his name?
Samuel. Samuel Lapp. But what happened here is none of his affair. My sister is expecting me... our train is leaving soon.
There'll be another train. The man who was killed tonight was a policeman, Sam. It's my job to find out who did it. I want you to tell me everything you saw when you went in there.
Where are you taking us?
We're looking for a suspect. We've reason to believe he's still in the area.
You have no right to keep us here.
Yes I do. Your son is a material witness to a homicide.
You don't understand, we have nothing to do with your laws!
Doesn't surprise me. I meet a lot of people like that.
It's not a joke.
What was that?
He wants to know who you are. Your name. I told him we don't need to know anything about you.
Now what's the problem?
The problem is I don't happen to think my son should be spending all his time with a man who carried a gun under his coat and goes around whacking people.
Whacking?
Yes. And I also want to leave this city.
Believe me, I'm trying to get this over with as fast as I can. But Samuel will probably have to come back and testify.
We do not go into your courts.
People who don't go into our courts when they're told to sometimes go directly into our jail.
Look, I'm genuinely sorry...
No you're not You're glad, because now you've got a witness. I heard the other police talking last night. They don't seem to like you very much.
They kid a lot.
I would not be too sure.
But not a good tired.
What's a 'good' tired. Tired is tired.
Your sister said you don't have a family?
No.
She thinks you should get married and have children of your own. Instead of trying to be a father to hers. Except she thinks you're afraid of the responsibility.
Oh? Anything else?
Oh yes. She thinks you like policing because you think you're right about everything. And you're the only one who can do anything. And that when you drink a lot of beer you say things like none of the other police would know a crook from a... um... bag of elbows.
Why don't you arrest that man? Are you protecting him because policeman?
Listen, I'm the cop that polices the police. I'm not in the business of protecting crooked cops. I'll make an arrest when I know everybody involved.
But why would they murder...
Because somehow they knew I was getting close. Look, it's narcotics... They make dope out of chemicals... they sell it on the street for millions of dollars. They'll do anything. And they can get away with it because they're cops.
I'm afraid. I'm afraid for Samuel. I want to go home.
You'll be safe. You don't have to worry.
Where are you taking us now?
Home.
You couldn't wait until morning?
You said we would be safe in Philadelphia.
I was wrong.
Stay for awhile. Rest. I'll make coffee and breakfast.
I can't.
What about Samuel? Will you come back to take him to trial?
But John... why didn't you go to a hospital?
No, no doctor...
But why?
Gunshot... they'll file reports... they'll find me.
But 
Who are they?
The leadership of our district... the diener. Bishop Tschantz is the one with no hair on top. They decided to come and see you for themselves. Except Stoltzfus, of course. He came the first day. I think he saved your life.
Can I have something to drink?
Does anybody know I'm here?
Only the elders.
How long?
What?
How long have I been here?
Two days.
Listen, thank you. Thanks for everything. But I've got to go.
But you can't.
Tell him his tea stinks.
You tell him. When you're able.
John Book, I would appreciate it if, during the time you are with us, you would have as little to do with Samuel as possible.
Nobody meant any harm. The boy was curious. I unloaded the gun 
It's not the gun. Don't you understand... It's you. What you stand for. That is not for Samuel.
Enjoying your reading?
Very interesting. I'm learning a lot about manure. What's that?
Your shirt and jacket are still stained with blood. I have them soaking.You can wear these.
Your husband's?
Yes. It's good that someone can have the use of them. Besides, in your clothes you'd stand out to strangers.
I should tell you these do not have buttons. See? Hooks and eyes.
Something wrong with buttons?
Buttons are Hochmut.
Hochmut?
Vain. Proud. Such a person is Hochmutsnarr. He is not plain.
Anything against zippers?
You make fun of me. Like the tourists. Driving by all the time. Some even come into the yard. Very rude. They seem to think we are quaint.
Quaint? Can't imagine why.
Where's the nearest telephone?
Telephone? The Gunthers across the valley. They're Mennonite. They have cars and refrigerators and telephones in the houses even.
No. I'd want a public phone.
Well... the store at Saltzburg... But you won't be going to Saltzburg for a while.
I'm going this morning.
But Stoltzfus said...
I know what he said.
You can go with Eli. He's taking Samuel to school. But you'll have to hurry.
The... bullets?
Oh. The bullets.
Eli is a fine carpenter. Best in the district. He and his father built the big house themselves forty years ago.
Oh? What happened to Hochstetler?
We had some lemonade and he left.
A real fireball.
You know carpentry?
I did some carpentry summers when I was going to school.
What else can you do?
I can whack people. I'm hell at whacking.
Whacking is not of much use on a farm.
Now hold on. There's a lot of people who think being a cop is a legitimate job.
I'm sorry. I'm sure it is.
Sure.
But... You may not be well enough.
I'll drink some more of Stoltzfus' tea.
When will you be going?
Not long... A few days.
Won him over just like that.
I see. But I hope you have a lot of sugar. Eli is ready to go to Zook's.
You should not bother with that birdhouse. If you're leaving tomorrow.
I'm leaving tonight. I'm going to need my clothes. And my gun.
There was a time when I thought you might have stayed.
There was.
There was a time when I would have welcomed it.
I know.
I was being foolish?
No. I was being unrealistic. Even thinking about living this life.
You're so sure of that?
Aren't you? After today?
I'm not so sure of anything as you are, John Book. You could live this life if you wanted to bad enough. Just as I could live yours!
Oh, come on, Rachel. No way.
There is always a way! But you are such a... a Glotzkopp you cannot see! You'd rather go back to that city! To nothing! No woman! No children! No land!
Land! Are you crazy? I'm no Amishman and I'm no farmer! I'm a cop. That's what I know and that's what I do!
What you do is take vengeance! Which is a sin against heaven!
That's your way, not mine.
That's God's way!
Well in the City of Philadelphia, God needs a little help!
I want you to take this... to remember by.
Where's my baggy pants?
Here. Whenever you want them.
How reliable is this kid?
Oh, he's good.
Amish.
Yeah.
What have you got?
Zenovitch was about to deliver a list of names tonight street chemists... the guys processing this P2P into speed.
So one of them got to him.
Maybe.
You know who?
Maybe.
You're still convinced there's a link to the department?
If there isn't I've just wasted the last six months.
That's the problem. We need results. The press is driving us crazy over this P2P thing. Calling us the 'speed capitol of the country'. You know the sort of thing. It's getting political. The Commissioner's getting very uneasy.
The Amish boy saw him, Paul. I'll make it, but Set Donahue and the Homicide Department off my back or they'll blow the whole thing.
When word gets out that Zenovitch was a cop, all hell will break lose. You've got 24 hours. That's all I can give you. 24 hours on your own. After that the case and the witness go back to the Homicide Department.
Tell you what... why don't you and that blonde what'shername come over for dinner Sunday. How 'bout that.
What'shername moved to Buffalo.
Well, anyway, don't get crazy. I'll do something for Zenovich's wife.
Last guy I would have figured. But he's part of it.
I hope you don't have any doubts about that.
If I did, I'd have kept my mouth shut... It fits, Paul... Fiftyfive gallons of P2P confiscated four years ago... Guess who was in on the collar? Mac. He salts it away somewhere... he knows the stuff is potent, but the street chemists haven't figured out how to process it. But they do now. And now the stuff is worth fivegrand a pint and there are a lot of pints in a fiftyfive gallon drum.
Who else knows?
Just us.
Okay, what are you going to need to clean it up
More people... Gotta pick up where Zenovich left off. People from outside the department.
Maybe the Bureau. Or those bastards at Treasury. I'll take care of it. I hate this shit, Johnny. You cut their balls off for me. I'm counting on you.
What's your first move?
A hot shower... I haven't changed clothes in two days.
Who else knows?
Just us.
You made a mistake, Paul. You shouldn't have taken Elton out.
How bad did Mac get you? We figured pretty bad.
I'm fine. I'm going to live a long time. That's what I called to tell you.
Johnny 
You might want to pass it along to Mac.
Listen to me, Johnny. Come in! You're out there all alone... We're getting close... real close... Maybe if you listen to me for a minute we can work something out so you can come in 
I've already got something worked out. Be seeing you.
You're going to have to do it right here, Schaeffer.
Don't try me, Johnny!
It's all over, Paul.
Move! Or you die right here!
I saw him.
Who'd you see?
Who'd you see, Sam? The man on the floor?
No... I saw the man who killed him.
He was... like him.
Black... I understand. What else,Sam?
You ever handle a pistol like this, Samuel?
No pistol. Ever.
Tell you what I'm going to let you handle this one. But only if you promise not to say anything to your momma. I've got a feeling she wouldn't understand.
Okay, Mr. Book.
That's Luke. He doesn't like strangers.
You don't say.
Hey, Sam...
...I want to say a thing.
What's that, Sam?
Is it them?
It's them, Sam. Now, Sam, listen to me and listen to me carefully. Listen to me as you never listened before.
Are they going to kill you?
Listen to me, Sam! I want you to go across the new corn to Stoltzfus'. Run as fast as you can. And stay there!
What are you going to do?
I'll be all right. You just do as I say.
Don't let them hurt you.
I won't. Now run. Fast as you can!
Are you really ever coming back?
Got to, Sam. You and I are going to a courthouse together, put some people behind bars.
Have you got your gun on now?
Sure have, Sam.
Good morning. Book, is it? You are the Yankee they talk about?
I thought I was the English.
English, Yankee. It's the same. My name is Daniel. Daniel Hochstetler. You look plain, Book. Very plain.
I came to see Rachel Lapp.
Try the house.
Eli says you're a carpenter, Book.
It's been a while.
No matter. Come with me. We can always use a good carpenter.
Your hole is healed, then?
Pretty much.
Nail it!
Yes, sir.
Everything is all right, John.
Pick up the hat.
How could you do this to me tonight? I told you I had company
Sorry. It's important.
Where's Timmy and Buck?
Upstairs, asleep. Where'd you think?
You've got a man here and the kids are upstairs?
That's none of your goddamn business! So keep your goddamn holierthan thou mouth shut! Anyway, they like Fred.
Oh sure, Fred.
Who are these orphans, anyway?
They're Amish.
Put my car in the garage and close the door.
John, I don't understand any of this.
You don't know anything... borrowed your car. Didn't say why. And you never heard of that woman and her boy.
John, why?...
Just do it!
Sure, I'm sorry. Hope you don't mind me plugging in to your battery. Mine's dead... How can I help? What can I do?
Maybe milking.
Milking?
Cows. You know, cows?
I've seen pictures.
Good, you start tomorrow.
Didn't you hear me, Book? Pull! You never had your hands on a teat before?
Not one this big.
Eat up, Book. What's the matter with your appetite?
Guess I'm not used to so much.
Not used to hard work. That's what makes an appetite.
We are emissaries of her majesty, Queen Cherlindrea, of the land of Coshairm.
Queen Cherlindrea?
She requests the presence of your self and the young princess.
Who??
You're the guardian, aren't you?
I'm getting her out of there!
No! You let us handle this. Come along, Rool!
Ohhh, I hate this.
Take your time. Don't worry about the elves. They won't come out here.
Why not?
This is not going well.
Hurry! Queen Cherlindrea will know what to do.
Talk! Say something!
I can't see anythingshe's too bright!
Hey, careful there!
How do these work I wonder? I got ta save one to show the High Aldwin.
Its branches are supposed to be made of gold, solid gold.
How are we going to get out there?
We've traveled a long way. We're looking for Fin Raziel.
The sorceress.
Obviously.
Without Raziel we'll never find Tir Asleen. We'd better go.
This can't be right. This isn't a sorceress. This is some kind of animal.
Queen Bavmorda transformed her.
If you rest the baby on your shoulder, she'll stop crying.
Shut up.
She needs to be changed.
I changed her already!
She needs to be changed again. Sorsha crosses her arms in a hugg and watches as Willow changes the baby. Soon the baby stops crying. Re lieved yet still anxious, Sorsha paces to a mirror. Willow rocks the baby gently, absently looking at the fire. Then his eyes focus on the fire.
Who is that horrible friend of yours?
Madmartigan.
Who is he?
I don't know much about him.
She's hungry.
I know she's hungry. I tried to feed her but she wouldn't eat a thing. I'm not a wet nurse.
Here. Hold her.
Elves! They're always tormenting babies. They make them cry and take their tears.
Somebody has to do it.
Watch this. Right between the eyes.
He never misses.
I'm not going in there.
Me neither!
Are you sure?
Yes! Raziel! She lives out on that island!
We gotta follow them.
Us?? We'll never catch them. Any way, we're all done, Teemo. Let's go home.
Get back here, Rool!
Ouch! Let go of me!
Who are you! Who are you!
I'm Willow Ufgood. I'm here to find Fin Raziel.
What do you want!
We need your help. To take this baby to Tir Asleen. She's a prin cess.
Kill him!
No!
Kill him!
Did *you* give that acorn its power?
No.
A magician *makes* magic. Any fool can use it.
You must learn magic.
That's all I ever wanted!
Then I will teach you.
Willow. To learn magic, first you must make your own philosopher's stone!
What do I need for that?
We must start with feathers, dung, and a lock of your hair.
I hope she's all right. How much more do I have to do of this?
Till it's in a powder. The energy exits within you...
I know, and the magician's goal is to find his true self. But what's this got to do with it?
As below, so above. You hold the univers, Willow, in your hand.
I'm all finished. Now what?
Burn it to a fine ash.
How am I gonna do that?
Patience. Concentrate. You will find a way.
We don't have much time left! Go on! Go on!
I must concetrate my imagination...to creat a new...reality!
What's the magician's weapon?
The limitless power of...
Your will! Your will! What else could it be?
I can't remember all these things. What am I learning?
The art of transformation!
But what am I gonna transform??
Me!
Oooh, this smells terrible.
That's the life spark. Exxence of magic and sorcery!
Ouch!!
Shhhhh!
What'd you bit me for!!
We need blood. To nourish the stone. charge the stone with ener gy.
Again: what is the magician's weapon?
His will.
Now use it.
I just wanted to test it first.
No! Change me back into a sor ceress, Willow.
Tir Asleen.
There's nobody here.
How??
Use the philosopher's stone! Hur ry! Invocation! Release them!
I did it! Madmartigan! Come here! Look! You gotta see this! I did it!
More! More!
Raziel! I transformed them all! I'm a magician!
You didn't transform them, Willow, you released them. That was noth ing. Now change me.
Get down! The ritual chant! Quick! Protect yourself!
Why?
Just do it!
I've come all this way and now Elora Dana's going to die!
No! I can still defeat Bavmorda!
She's too powerful, Raziel
Time is running out.
Surrender!!
Patience, Willow.
Courage, Willow.
It's not a Nelwyn baby.
No, it's too big to be a Nelwyn baby. It looks like a daikini...
Can't we keep it, Dada?
Absolutely not.
Dada, what's a daikini?
Daikinis are giant people who live far far away.
Are you scared?
I could be you rguard! I could carry your spear!
What a great son you are, Ranon. I wish I could take you with me. Now go to sleep...
Please? I'm dyin' of thirst in here.
Good. How long will it take?
Don't make me angry, Peck.
You be careful. I'm a powerful sorcerer. I could turn you into a toad just like that.
Miserable Pecks.
Do any other daikinis ever come by here?
Why.
I have to give this baby to some body.
Hey! Somebody's coming!
Peck! Quick! Douse the fire!
Thanks for your help, Peck.
Are you okay?
As if you care. I saved your life, Peck. Those guys woulda killed us! You wanna give your baby to them?? They eat babies!
I don't know.
You a woodcutter?
Farmer.
Farmer! I knew it! You're a vic tim, Willow. Yep, you and me: victims of a rotten, corrupt, cor rupt, rotten world.
You all right?
These burns. My arms. Ouch...
Smells like a battle.
Are you a warrior?
The greatest swordsman that ever lived.
What's that? I hear something!
You hear trouble.
What is it?
I'll be around long after you're dead, Airk! You slime! When I get outa here I'll cut your head off and stick it on a pigpole!
Friend of yours?
Whatcha thinkin' about, Willow?
I hate this.
Nobody's gonna take your baby. Know why? Nobody cares... Except me. You wanna go back to your farm. You wanna go back to your family. I could take care of that baby. I'll look after her like she was me own.
You don't know anything about ba bies.
You gotta promise to feed her.
I will.
Fresh goat's milk.
Absolutely!
And give her a bath everyday, and don't let her get cold. And keep her diaper changed.
Of course! I promise!
Here are her diaper rags. And this is her milk bladder. And when she criesshe's either hungry or she's tiredrock her on your left shoulder. She likes that.
Don't worry, Willow. She's in good hands. You haven't made a mistake.
You!!
Where the hell did you come from?
Hey! Give me that baby!
These Pecks make terrible nurse maids.
Nursemaid?!
Time to change her diaper.
Time to leave.
Because she's sick.
Because she's sick.
Where's the baby??
I thought you had her!
Now Willow, I know you're gonna blame me for this but it wasn't my fault...!
Elora Danan!
When I left the crossroads, I got ambushed by an elf!
Madmartigan! You saved her life!
I did?
So you're on your way to Tir Asleen, huh? I hate to tell you this, Willow, but Tir Asleen dosn't exist.
Yes it does. The Fairy Queen told me.
The Fairy Queen? And the baby here's a princess? And these two rodents are your guides?
Madmartigan, I need your help.
My help? A great magician like you? You don't need any help.
I was in love once, Willow. She had a hold on my heart. I could barely function. I *was* a great swordsman! I was knighted! I could have been king!
You?
Yeah me. King! But she betrayed me. She robbed me of my dream.
I'll help you...!
I won't.
I'm beginning to think you two *deserve* to be locked up.
The universe is a living creature, like you and me, Madmartigan.
Did she ask about me?
Who?
Come on, Peck, don't give me a hard time. You were in her ten all night. Did she say anything?
She said lots of thing.s
Willow!
She asked about you, Madmartigan.
Well what did she say?
She's in love.
You're crazy. I think you're in love.
You?
What are you gonna become, Raziel? Queen of the rodents?
Madmartigan! I can't stand being in closedin places.
Want me to carry Elora?
I'm used to her. How's she doing?
Willow...this may be a bad time to ask this question but...what if Raziel's wrong?
She can't be wrong. She's a very very very powerful sorceress.
She's a bird, Willow.
That's my fault, not hers. I've got to keep practicing. I'm still in the learning stage but magic, Madmartigan, requires concentration and
Watch it!
Ahhh!
I have an idea. Back in my village we catch a lot of hedgehogs.
Willow, this is war, not agricul ture!
I know, I know! But this is a way to get into that castle...
I don't know, Willow.
Madmartigan, you promised me you'd take care of Elora Danan like your own daughter. She is all that matters. Are you going to abandon her?
Willow, why don't you use your mag ic to get us out of here?
He's no magician.
He turned that monster into stone!
Then you get us out of here.
I will! But I need help!
Who is that girl, anyway?
Sorsha, Queen Bavmorda's daughter.
We're a tiny version of all that?
As above, so below.
Bavmorda cannot transform you. I've protected this camp with a spell.
Can you use your magic to get our men into the fortress, Raziel?
You! Are you the mother of that child?
No. I mean yes.
I can't.
Let me see it.
I can't.
Why not?
Why not?
Gawd...you're...beautiful...
You're not a woman.
Mmmm, I love the smell of a woman.
My stepfather's going to tear you apart.
I do what I'm told.
Too bad you're not more like your father.
You're a fool. Now put her back.
I'm not going to let this baby die.
Why did you say that?
Say what?
I love you.
Because it's true.
I don't believe you.
Sorsha.
Madmartigan.
We'll probably die here, Sorsha.
I have no family.
Sir! I have to talk to you.
Not today, Willow.
It's a matter of great importance to me!
Earlier today you tried to tell me something, Willow.
My family found this baby in the river, High Aldwin.
Now, you know where you're going? Down there, through those trees, follow the river. You'll know the crossroads by a big daikini struc ture. Willow, this is serious business. Don't waste any time, the outer world is no place for a Nelwyn. Give the baby to the first daikini you see, then hurry home as fast as you can.
If I'm not strong enough to be your apprentice, how can I do this?
You're strong enough. But you're going to need courage, Willow.
I don't want courage. I don't want to be a warrior. All I've ever wanted was to do magic, real magic, like you!
Real magic, Willow, is simply the art of controlling the reality of others. You lack faith in your self. You must learn to trust your intuition.
Go in the direction the bird is flying.
Oh, if I could do that I'dI'd turn Burglekutt into a toad!
Waste magic on revenge? You have much to learn, Willow...
Willow Ufgood.
Yes...?
I hope you are comfortable here, inside my kingdom...
You mean, you know who this baby belongs to?
She belongs to all of us. She is the future queen and ruler of all kingdoms on earth.
No, Willow. Your journey has just begun. It has been foretold that this child shall bring about the downfall of Queen Bavmorda, whose evil powers have darkened our world. Upon you depends this princess's life.
Me?
You are the guardian, Willow. You must take her to Tir Asleen.
What is Tir Asleen?
The way has been lost in time. But there is one person, a druid sor ceress, who might guide you there. She was exiled by Queen Bavmorda many years ago. Her name is Fin Raziel.
You need a warrior for this job. I'm nobody.
You are very important, Willow.
No I'm not. Have you really looked at me? I'm short! Even for a Nelwyn!
Why can't you do it? You have mag ical powers.
My prsence cannot extend beyond this forest. But I can give you these...
They look like acorns.
Anything you hurl them at will turn to stone.
We're going into battle, little one. Find a woman to take care of it.
He thought you were a woman, Airk!
Madmartigan! What did you do this time?
Nothing you wouldn't have done it my place!
I always knew you'd end up in a crow's cage.
Least I'm not down there herding sheep!
Airk! Come on, Airk. Lemme outa here.
Hey, remember? You don't need my help, Madmartigan. Little rabbit trap like this? Come on! I could open it for you, but I wouldn't wanna insult you!
Gimme a sword, Airk. I'll win your war for you.
You left me to die, friend.
You managed alright.
Is this what's left of your army?
It's you they're after, Madmarti gan. What did you do this time?
They're not after me. They want the baby.
You gonna be a hero, Madmartigan? I've lost half my men fighting Kael, and Bavmorda, and the Nock maar army. Now you and this Peck, and that magpie up in the rafters, are gonna take 'em on alone?
Then come with us.
You're chasing a dream.
Just get me some horses.
Out for a little ride in the coun try, Airk?
Thought you might get lonely, Mad martigan!
Thank you, friend.
Let's go.
Well?
They're coming.
When are they coming?
They're rounding up a posse. Figure an hour?
In an hour they're gone!
Hey...!
You're not going to use it, are you?
Well, come on, that's half a dozen armed men...
Right.
Dr. Pemberton?
Yes!
Gotta get the Doctor someplace safe.
Who were they? What do they want with me?
We'll explain on the way.
I only met him once, but that was enough. For such a little man he had quite an oversized opinion of himself. He offered me the "rare and unparalleled opportunity" to develop a new steam engine for him. He claims to have some sort of factory in Texas, I believe. Said I could have the run of the place. He had all sorts of specifications. But when I questioned him closely, it became obvious he was just another mercenary businessman. Both he and his partner had no real love of steam. It's sad. So few men do.
Who was this partner of his?
A Southern gentlemen. I don't recall his name. I suppose it's unkind of me to say it, but he had the most disconcerting glass eye.
A glass eye? That's who it was! OneEyed Jack Garrison. Otherwise known as General Garrison, Confederate Third Army. I saw him at Dr. Loveless' party, but I couldn't place him. He used to wear an eyepatch.
Are you all right?
For the moment. But I fear not for long. I'm of no use to him now.
He... he's planning to kill us, isn't he?
He's just full of plans that aren't gonna work out.
This is something.
It's a smelting retort.
Now it's a bomb.
It is?
I beg your pardon?
You don't know what he's built?! Surely you don't think he kidnapped all those geniuses to have them make something as rudimentary as this.
I admire a man with a sense of humor.
When you're three and a half feet tall, sir, life turns you into a comedian whether you like it or not.... Come with me, won't you?
I must compliment you on Miss Thompson... an exceptionally charming assistant.
Thank you. I confess to a preoccupation with acquiring precisely that which the world says I cannot have.
Very good, sir! I think my guest might be a sharpshooter by trade.
No, sir... just a businessman.
Really? Must be a dangerous business.
I deal with some tough customers.
Sir... I believe you have only two barrels.
How embarrassing. Did I hold up three fingers?
Why don't we just cut this routine short? Whatever you do to us, we're not going to talk.
Talk? About what...? Oh! About who you are and all that?
... And do give me some room, Voltaire. You're breathing on my head! I hate it when you breath on my head!
Dr. Loveless?
You're not that big.
Restrain yourself, Voltaire. He's just the sort of coward who would shoot an unarmed giant.
Still alive. Hmm. I suppose that doesn't bode well for poor Bruno.
He had a pressing engagement.
Philistine.
You got that right. Now get up. We're walking out of here.
Has it penetrated that adrenaline addled skull that you are surrounded by seventyeight of my loyal followers? You are in my domain!
Has it penetrated yours that I'm holding a gun on their leader?
The U.S. is my jurisdiction.
Exactly! You are on foreign soil. You are a representative of the occupying forces. Or haven't you checked a map lately?!
These lands were taken by force from Mexico in the illegal War of American Aggression.
That would be... the Mexican War?
Call it what you like. The point is, I was heir to that land, Mr. West. It belonged to my beloved grandmother! Now I intend to have it back. My own country!
I've even printed my own currency.
"Emperor Miguelito...?"
The first.
Well, your highness, what makes you think we'll ever sign a treaty with you?
Because I am holding all the western territories hostage, Mr. West! A town a day will disappear! Willard was merely a test run, a stroll in the park. Next, I level all of Albuquerque! Yes, that's right. Only yesterday I learned what you undoubtedly already know: your own President will be there. What an added bonus! The gods are shining on me! After tomorrow every American citizen will rise up and demand I be given back my humble little empire!
So, I'm the only one here who can tell the difference between an Emperor and a murderer?
Easy now.
Easy? Easy? On just what grounds should I take it easy!?
Mr. President, good to see you again, sir. Sorry about all that.
That'll be all, boys.
Good work. Really.
This is Colonel Richards.
Nice to finally meet you, sir.
But what would anyone have to gain from all this...? Unless it were a foreign power.
Exactly. Any number of nations would love to cripple our scientific growth. And what better way to tip the scales in their favor than by killing off the greatest minds this country has produced.
We find ourselves at the dawn of the Golden Age of Science. And it is the Godgiven destiny of this glorious nation to carry the torch that lights the way!
Nicely said, sir.
Part of some speech they wrote for this trip I'm taking.
Goddamnit! What am I doing? What's happened to all my cigars? Colonel Richards here has had a dozen agents on these cases for over a year. No arrests, no leads, no clues...
And?
And now the job's yours.
... well, of course you can. Mr. President, what a surprise. What brings you here?
On my way to Denver...
Where'd he say he was going to do this?
He didn't. That's your job. I'm taking you off that other case until you've nabbed this lunatic. Good luck. Nice train. But mine's nicer.
Don't try to bamboozle me, Colonel. Has another scientist been kidnapped or not?
Well, yes sir. A Professor Morton, but with just a little more time, sir, I can assure you a breakthrough on this case...
Listen, in two days I'm embarking on a tour of the western territories. And I want to know at least one problem is being handled competently in my absence.
Of course, sir, that's why I've assigned a new man. And he's no ordinary Marshal. He's quite sophisticated. Three college degrees. A master of disguise. Speaks French...
French?
Yes sir.
French? Damn it, I want my own man on this case. Somebody I trust. Somebody who doesn't mind breaking up the furniture!
Why surely, Mr. President, there must be some mistake. I mean...
A mistake? To assign this case to the man who blew up all the bridges on the Chattanooga River and single handedly trapped Jackson's entire cavalry? How is that a mistake?
Look, I'm Captain James West...
Well, Captain, then the answer is your train is still here.
Your private train, sir.
Private train?
That would be correct. Orders from the President himself. Trans portation at your beck and call. No delays. Although, the government's generosity takes me a tad by surprise, as well.
Doyle's the name, sir. Of the Connemara Doyles. And there's not a man riding the rails who holds a candle to meself. That having been said, sir, you're five minutes late so let's be on our way! Your friend's already aboard.
My friend?
Would you be thinking... ramming speed, sir?
I would, Mr. Doyle! Are you game?
My name's Tyler. Frank Tyler. Pleased to meet you, ma'am.
I get that feeling. You know, Mr. Tyler, I'm the kind of woman who doesn't believe men are much more than a complete waste of time. But after spying you across the room, I'm tempted to suspend my disbelief, at least for the evening.
You know, ma'am, you remind me of a pearlhandled pistol I once owned. A beautiful thing to look at, but too hot to handle.
I don't recollect ever being compared to a pistol before.
Please do. I'm a man who appreciates a good firearm.
Really?
Well, where I come from it kind of goes with the territory. Texas.
My... the wild west.
Well, sir, you are proving to be one of my more interesting guests.
Your guests, ma'am?
Yes, in a way. I'm the Doctor's social secretary. I handle his correspondence, send out the invitations, you know.
Oh, don't worry. I've already overlooked the fact your name's not actually on our guest list.
Well, I owe you one, don't I?
You most certainly do.
You must excuse the Doctor. No one has ever beaten him at his little game.
I don't like to lose, either.
Have you taken a wrong turn, Mr. Tyler?
You tell me.
I'm not so sure Dr. Loveless would like to find his social secretary dancing in the dark with an uninvited stranger.
Forgive me, but you don't strike me as the social secretary type.
Thank you. But the truth is, I'm a single woman in a man's world. That leaves me very few choices, doesn't it?
I suppose so. But life can be hard for a man, too.
Just a little insurance... against the unexpected.
Would that include me?
Oh, I would hope not.
You've... done... this... before.
I've had some practice.
She's perfectly safe.
Really? Like General Garrison or didn't you hear all that shooting?
My. It's gotten longer.
You bring the best out in a man.
I try. Please, if you promise to protect me, I'll testify against him. I'll give you an ironclad case.
You know, I really hate being toyed with before someone shoots me.
Fine, I'll stop.
A new friend?
We'll see.
Anyone?
Here. Mr. Tyler. He claims a certain skill at handling firearms.
Wonderful! Our new friend from the wild west. Please...
I could get used to this, looking down on people.
They don't even realize they should be frightened.
Well, let's help them with that. Take the legs.
Terribly sorry. I'm always sticking this where it doesn't belong. Federal agents, ma'am. We're rescuing a kidnap victim...
Yes, me!
You? Dr. Pemberton? Of course. How novel.
You didn't tell us you had this on!
My Lord, he was telling the truth!
He calls it the Tarantula.
But it only has six legs.
He's not giving up?
Well, see, he had this little wagon when he was a kid...
Time for you to get off, Ma'am.
Like hell! I'll see it through! Ram the bastard!
J. S. Bach.
Jim West.
Artemus Gordon. Bach, he's the composer.
I don't mind him, but who the hell are you... my valet or something?
Valet? You jest of course. I am a U.S. Marshal.
Funny. So am I.
Congratulations. Unfortunately, my train is about to leave, and I really must insist you disembark.
Your train? Listen, friend, you're obviously lost. ... I've got orders here to take possession of this train and to investigate a certain crime.
Interesting. Mine say the same thing, and they don't mention you, not even as a valet, although we could talk...
Just another bureaucratic foulup. You know how these pencilpushers are. So, why don't you just run on back and explain what happened?
Funny, I was just thinking you should do the same. Since I am already in residence, and am obviously the man for the job, it's been grand making your acquaintance, sir. And best of luck in all your future endeavors.
You're quite the wordsmith, fiddle boy. But nobody smoothtalks his way into my assignment.
If you're implying our little imbroglio has reached an impasse whose only resolution can be found in a more primitive fashion, then I for one am fully prepared to do so... al fresco.
But don't pull that again.
Wouldn't dream of it.
Eight scientists. Eight different fields of endeavor. Hydraulics, optics, ballistics...
Put them all together and what do we have?
A giant... hydraulically operated microscope... that explodes? Or maybe just someone who hates scientists.
Then why kidnap them? Why not just kill them?
"Ay, there's the rub." Take a look at this file on Professor Morton. Quite a brilliant fellow... metallurgy.
Sorry. Didn't mean that. Just a little device of mine...
Wait a minute. Now I know where I've heard of you. You're the gadget guy.
"Gadget guy?" While I may not be in a league with these unfortunate geniuses, I am, sir, in my own humble way, a man of science.
Attractive buttons, yes? But yank one off, toss it, and poof! It emits a cloud of sleeping gas.
You need that real often?
Always hoping. Or this...
No offense, but all I ever need... Are these... And this.
Good Lord, man. The world is changing. And mark me, it is always the criminal mind that is the first to exploit modern invention. We, as defenders of the right, must keep pace!
All right, if it'll make you happy, I'll try that.
Try what?
Your little jackinthebox gun. That might be useful.
Well... it's the only one I have. It's gotten me out of quite a few tight spots...
That should put us ahead of the criminals.
I'll work on it.
Aha!
Aha?
Yes, aha. A brass screw.
Is this leading somewhere?
Potentially. This is the painstaking process of piecing together clues. The cornerstone of the modern science of criminology. Piece by piece we reconstruct the identity of the villain.
Starting with a screw?
Yes. Starting with a screw. Now, it's not fair of me to expect someone who's spent his life wrangling with Western desperadoes to fully appreciate what I'm doing here, but...
What about the explosive?
Limestone quarry?
Limestone quarry, Southern mansion. Easy to get them mixed up... I say we invite ourselves to the party.
Absolutely. Have to look for clues... even if it means dancing with beautiful women.
Doyle, once around the park. I need a moment to prepare.
Prepare what?
My disguise. And here...
Come Llewellyn, don't tarry.
Call me that again, and you're going to find a boot where it doesn't belong.
Jim, people talk to foreigners, speak more openly, especially to those as famous as I, Chauncey McNeil Armstrong, English lyric poet.
That's a lot of butler.
Quite. Come, let's mingle.
Do your own mingling. I'm not hanging around with some dandy named Chauncey.
Doctor V. L. Pemberton. I knew it. He's a scientist all right. Inventor of the Pemberton Condensed Steam Engine. I'm telling you, Artemus, Loveless is our man.
Whoa, Jim. Maybe. But we can't arrest this little pillar of society on maybe.
All right. How about this? We put a watch on this Pemberton, somebody tries to grab him...
Then we've got our proof. Excellent. And where do we find this fortunate scientist?
You know your Morse Code almost as well as I.
Almost?
Yes. Now, observe....
You feeling all right?
Come on, Jim. I'm serious. Dot... Dash. It'll be our secret means of communication should we ever need it.
Now, what was that?
You're either having a seizure or you just said "hello."
Good, I wasn't sure you were up to it.
What was all that back there?
All what?
All that jumping and kicking.
That? Oh, it's a kind of Chinese fighting... I was sort of caught once with a lovely Chinese girl out in San Francisco. Her big brothers were kind enough to teach it to me I've got a book on it, if you're interested.
Garrison...? Then the President was right. Except it's not a foreign power, it's a bunch of die hard Rebels trying to make the South rise again.
And if they've got Dr. Loveless building weapons like those flying bombs... they just might do it.
Could I just point out, this is a perfect example of the criminal mind exploiting modern invention.
I'm going to hit you.
Never seen a gun fire so fast!
It's a repeating steam cannon!
At least I tried something.
Hey, I tried the board.
Damn it, this is ridiculous.
At least the thing's not that fast. We just follow it. Whenever it stops, we're there, waiting.
That's right... That's good.
Jim, are you all right?
No, I'm not all right. They got away. And we can't even follow them. They can get off the tracks anywhere they want.
Which is why we're heading to Houston, Texas. Home of the Loveless Steam Engine Works.
If you don't mind my asking, were you always the way you are?
What way is that?
So... spontaneous. All that leaping off buildings and Chinese fighting and whatnot.
"Spontaneous." I like that. Most people say something like "hare brained reckless sonofabitch."
Well... that, too.
Nothing much to it really. When I was younger I got into a pretty bad runin with the Wyler Boys. I saw them coming. But I didn't act fast enough. Secondguessed myself. And it cost me... cost me dearly.
So... what happened?
Those kids, they took my wagon. Never got it back.
Uh... how long ago was this?
I was six. And ever since, my policy is: Act first and worry later.
You might have mentioned you had that.
I thought all you needed were your fists and your gun.
Strange... you'd think he'd have this place better guarded.
I find most criminals slip up somewhere...
They're so precious when they're asleep.
You really enjoy yourself, don't you?
Can you fill me in here?
Sure. We have no idea what's going on.
Thank you.
Come on, let's at least see if we can find Dr. Pemberton.
You go ahead. I'll stick with Loveless.
Know what this is?
Sure. It's a windup... thing.
A cylinder recorder. My own design.
This is good.
Shhh! Come on. Tell us something!
Oh, damn! That's it.
It's better than nothing.
It is?
He's going to put on a pith helmet and kill some guy named Willard.
No record of him.
You'd think if Loveless is going to kill him he could at least be a prominent citizen.
What's this?
Sounds like a train. Looks like a train.
Yes. And a much nicer one than ours.
Willard...
It's not a guy...
It's a town!
Got to be somewhere that's hot. He said it was "damnably hot."
That rules out Willard, Vermont; Willard, Minnesota... Willard, New Mexico?
Damn, I wish this thing would go faster.
Relax. We're almost there.
We oughta get a couple of those rockets. Voom! We're there before we left!
What is that?
This? I'm testing a new spirit gum, to see how it holds.
And people are actually fooled by that?
My disguises have helped me solve many a difficult case. I spent three years on the stage, you know. Remind me sometime to regale you with my Lear.
Not again.
I adjusted it.
So the idea is if a guy punches me, he really hurts his hand?
You said it popped out too easily. Nothing's ever good enough for you, is it?
When we find him, he is mine.
Oh, no, we split him fiftyfifty.
What if these tracks are just leading us to an Indian village or some old coot's mining claim?
Not likely. There must be tracks of twenty different wagons. Freight wagons, carriages, buckboards...
Excellent detective work, sir. You should have the honor of going first.
Oh, thank you.
My pleasure.
Artemus, you ready for this? His next target is Albuquerque.
What? President Grant is...!
I know! I know!
I don't have to tell you what that would do to our careers!
We've got to stop him right here, now! With that armored steam engine of his it'll be a slaughter.
I'd love to stop him, but have you noticed the hundred armed men?
There's only seventyeight.
Oh, well, then let's kick some ass!
It was in your book.
Well, hell, maybe we do have a chance.
Are those just button buttons or...?
Of course not.
My hat is off to you, sir.
Thank you.
God in heaven, what is that?!
That's... that's the criminal mind about to stomp our sorry butts!
My God! He's so excessive!
Where have you been?
Pull the balloon right in front of him! We'll board the damn thing!
Oh, I see, an easy plan!
The machine was stopped! It seemed like a perfect time to disable it! Why'd you have to throw it into full throttle?!
He was going to shoot me! Do you mind?!
All right, all right... It'll be okay. I mean, eventually it'll just run out of steam.
In the next two minutes?
Artemus! Look at that. Brand spanking new. She's a beauty, huh? Let's get rolling.
What is this? A whole new train?
Well, sure. Didn't you get your orders?
Well, we'll stay in touch... you know.
I'm sure we will.
What? You're going to drive off without even saying hi?
Hi, Sandy.
Why don't you come in, have a drink?
Can't. Got a passenger.
I can't, Sandy. I've got to run.
I'll bet. Look, Sam. Why don't you come by this weekend. We'll take the boat out...
Sorry, Sandy. I've got plans.
What? Running over alligators with that silly swamp jalopy when you could be sailing a real boat...
Swamp's where it's at, Sandy. Gives you a look into the muck we all crawled out of. You ought to try it some time.
Sandy... What's up?
Listen, Kelly skipped school. Have you talked to her?
No.
Shit. Here we go again.
Didn't you see her this morning?
To tell you the truth, I haven't seen her since Friday.
Look. I know you're seeing Barbara Baxter. So what?
So maybe I'm a onewoman man.
Grab a clue, Sam. You're a hired hand around here. Enjoy it while it lasts.
Goodbye, Sandra.
How much is about six and a half million divided by three?
Jesus. Two million one hundred thirtythree thousand three hundred thirtythree and change.
Sam...
Put Kelly on too.
But I..
Shut up. Don't fall apart. The only people who can blow this is us. Remember?
Yeah, right.
Good. Just keep telling yourselves that, the only people who can fuck this up is us.
I was worried about you, Suzie. I decided we should all get together, one more time, before we split up.
Are you mad at me?
No, no. Look, I probably should have told you a little more, about the part I intended to play. We'll go through it all again tonight.
That was about as grim as it gets.
The guy was history when he killed Kelly. You knew that.
But then you knew what he was like all along... Maybe his killing Kelly was a thing you had counted on...
But then it is better this way, don't you think? No loose ends.
What?
That was the same thing Ray said.
What's wrong?
Fuck the winch. I wanna drive.
Seems to like some of the same places you do. Funny you never met.
Yeah, real funny. You're wrong about this, I could get busted on the spot.
Trust me, the guy's dirty. He'll like it. Especially the part about offing me. Now get out of here. Go make yourself a new friend.
I've seen you out there in your old air boat, thinking about what might have been, old man Van Ryan hadn't fucked you out of it. What if I told you I had a way we could get a big piece of it back?
We?
Well, I'd need the famous Lombardo charm, not that you'd have to do anything you haven't done already.
How...
Walter. He's been aimin' that Brownie through knotholes for years. I saw these, I knew he'd finally struck gold. I can't decide which came out better, that little straw Kelly's got up her nose, or that vibrator you've got up her ass. What do you think, Mr. Lombardo?
I think there's some things you do, you don't want to see yourself doing them.
Why don't you tell us one more time, how Kelly came to be with you, alone in your house.
Story's the same, Detective...
I had to go look for this coupon.
The one you bought at school.
Like I said, I hadn't really expected to use it. Anyway, I'm going through a drawer. I hear a car. I look out the window. I see Nicole driving away. I leave my room, and there's Kelly.
In cutoffs, a wet Tshirt.
Yes.
And she wanted to talk.
Yes.
But you can't tell us what she wanted to talk about.
I could, but it's confidential. Look, the point is, we didn't talk. I told her this was not an appropriate time or place.
And she began to cry. And you put an arm around her.
Yes. Mainly to turn her toward the door. I told her we would talk on Monday, in the office.
But she ran away.
That's right.
But you do admit to touching her, to putting your arm around her. Isn't that against the rules?
It is and I don't. Ordinarily... But, I mean... there's this kid standing in front of you crying...
With a thirtyfive inch bustline in a wet Tshirt with no bra...
Fuck you. This is bullshit. I'm outta here.
Sit down, Lombardo.
Yeah, well, you fixed that. What the hell happened, anyway?
The bitch shot me, is what happened.
Hey, what did you want me to do, die?
Well, shit, you're the cop, they don't teach you to disarm people, shoot them in the leg or something? You weren't supposed to kill her for Christ's sake.
Did you become squeamish about these things before or after you bludgeoned little Suzie Toller to death with a wine bottle? Jesus, man. It couldn't have worked out better. They're convinced Kelly whacked Suzie. I can't talk 'em out of it. We should be celebrating. This thing worked out just like you said, only better.
Kelly was supposed to be framed, not killed. What I'm telling you is, I don't like surprises.
You mean this thing?
Yes, we call it a winch. And these are shrouds, and these are stays.
I thought this was supposed to be a vacation. Why didn't you buy a nice big power boat?
Come on, man. I'll make a sailor out of you yet.
Yeah, or get me drowned.
Jesus, man... You okay?
That how you planned it? You take cut Suzie, get me to hang it on Kelly, then dump me in the ocean...
Come off it, man... It was an accident.
Meet my partner, Gloria Perez.
I did. At Blue Balls.
It's Celine. He's okay. He had a pretty good line on what cheap fucks people are.
So Suzie, you called us, remember?
No.
Will they?
It doesn't look like it.
Then he'll be back at Blue Balls?
You ought to watch it with that shit, Suzie. You get busted again, you go back in a twotine loser.
You got something against cigarettes?
Yeah, they're bad for your health. I'm tryin' to look out for you...
That's cop bullshit.
Well, you're half right. Best thing you could do for yourself right now would be to talk to me.
About what?
Every triangle I've ever seen never lasts. Somebody's got to go.
Is this supposed to mean something to me? What triangle?
You, Kelly, Sam.
I don't have to listen to this. And you can't shove me around. I have friends now...
Is that what you think? You have friends? Is that what they told you?
I don't mean who you're thinking. I have other friends...
Suzie, Suzie... This is me, Ray, you're talking to. We both know you don't have shit, never have had shit, never will have shit...
Get away from me.
Don't you see what this means? You really think Sam and Kelly are gonna give you a third of the money? You, the pillhead with the rap sheet?
Shut up.
Davy.
That's right. That was his name.
You... I should've killed you myself. should never have left it up to him...
Shoulda, coulda, woulda... Get him in the water.
Sam, for godsake.
Hey, Ray. Guess whose name is on the numbered bank account besides yours and Sam's?
You're saying that Kelly was raped by Sam Lombardo.
That's right.
Who is it?
Detective Duquette, Ms. Van Ryan. Let me in. Now.
Where is she?
Where she lives. In the guest house. Now will you tell me what this is about?
I'm placing your daughter under arrest.
You can't...
Suzie Toller is dead. You don't want Kelly to be next, then take my advice. Stay out of my way.
But check this...
Ken. I'm in some trouble. I need an attorney and you're the only one I know. So I figured I'd start here.
Good thinking.
You can tie whoever did it to Sandra Van Ryan...
Forget it.
Lady has some deep pockets. That's all I'm saying.
I know how deep her pockets are, Ken. I thought I might be able to save my fucking house with an equity loan. Guess who's on the board of directors at the bank?
Can't you take that stupid thing off?
Not in here. Chiropractor comes in here for lunch sometimes.
You're not in bad shape, really. I know you think you are, but you're not. Let me tell you why. Sandra Van Ryan.
What's that supposed to mean?
For you to be getting this kind of heat, for what they have on you... It doesn't add up. Sandra Van Ryan's got 'em running scared. And I'll tell you something else, you rush, you get careless.
Nellie Gail Ranch...
Sound nice? It's a fucking drug rehab farm. It's where Kelly Van Ryan went when her morn fished her out of the swamp. Meanwhile, you get educator of the year I mean there's no way they can put this thing in front of a jury. Shit, they haven't even taken your statement yet. Reason? They're still shoveling dirt and my guess is, they're coming up empty. Now tell me I'm right.
There's nothing for them to get.
Good. So what we're going to do is march right to Hunter's doorstep. We're going to insist they take a statement. We're going to tell them to charge your ass or get off your back. They're walking a fine line here. Defamation of character, malicious prosecution...
I just want my life back...
Fair enough. Let's go make a statement.
Come on, let loose!
I was just thinking about where I'm gonna stay. I lost the house. It's like waking up from a goddamn nightmare.
You'll get over it. We've got a knockdown, airtight, motherfucker of a lawsuit against Sandra Van Ryan.
Just like that?
Just like that? These people ruined your life, bro.
Okay, try me on Sunday. I'm going out to the Everglades on Saturday. You guys can wash the mud off.
Deal. You know, I just looked out front. My ride wasn't there. You suppose you could give me one?
Don't forget the car wash.
I won't.
Look, he forgot. I knew it.
No I didn't. Check out the Jeep. It's nice and dirty for you. But you might want to wait a minute. The Mercedes is leaving.
Where's the hose? We can set up.
In back of the garage.
So, where you off to now?
Aren't you forgetting something? Your coupon. We gotta have it.
Jeez, that thing... Can't you...
Rules are rules, Mr. Lombardo.
All right. I'll have to look for it.
Mr. Lombardo. We're running kind of late. How about if Nicole goes on to the Mansons? You could give me a ride when you find the ticket.
Kelly...
Drop dead... You know where my mom is trying to get the money to pay you off? She's trying to break my trust. How do you like that? I can't touch it until she's dead and she won't give me a dime and now she's trying to break it to pay you...
Look, Kelly... I'm sorry... I know what you've been through... I should've seen something like this coning.
Jesus Christ, what are you doing?
So you got my mom's money.
How much?
About six and a half million dollars.
God, you scared the shit out of me. You must be crazy coming here.
Of course I'm crazy. Ask my mom.
From now on, if we're seen together, it's got to be accidental. I thought that was understood...
Hey, come on... We've got to have at least one victory party.
The only way we're gonna blow this now, is if we do it ourselves...
Do it to ourselves?
We have to stick with the plan.
Stick?
Kelly. Is Suzie there?
Yes.
Shit. I was afraid of that. She left this garbled message on my machine. Can you calm her down?
Why can't you come...
No! Christ. Listen, Kelly, I'm counting on you. You calm her down. I mean do whatever you have to, whatever it takes...
You know what it takes.
Then do it. I need you on this Kelly. Do it tonight. We'll figure something out... Okay?
I'm here.
Okay. I want you to hear this too. We've got to be cool. All of us. People think I'm rich, for Christ's sake. I'm doing what rich guys do. I'm spending my money. It's more suspicious if I sit around doing nothing. Now don't let this cop fuck with your minds.
I'm sorry, Kelly. I'm sorry it had to happen like this. She was losing it...
There was no way. That cop would've gotten her to tell him... everything. She was weak and dumb...
Hello?
Hello.
God, I've been calling you.
I'm really serious. That cop, he keeps watching me.
Duquette. Forget him...
I can't help it. He gives me the creeps... I mean why was Suzie so scared of him? She's not that way. I think he did something...
Yeah, he got her busted for possession...
I don't know... I think it was something else... Suzie says the bust was bullshit...
And you believe her?
I don't know. I want to see you...
Kelly... Relax. Take one of your mom's valium or something. In another week you get on the plane. It's over. We're rich.
But what if they find out... God, they'd put you in the gas chamber...
So if they're tapping your phone, we're dead. Stay in the guest house. Skip the graduation parties. You'll never see Duquette. Okay? I love you.
Okay. I love you too.
That never seemed to worry you at the Glades.
That's not your line.
Say you love me.
I love you. Now give me the line.
No little girl can ever make me come.
I'm running away.
You think that's wise?
Umhuh. And guess what else? I have toys.
Is that Sam Lombardo?
Hi, Mon.
Sam! Hi!
Which one of your "bodyguards" is that?
Whichever one I want.
Okay, what's the matter?
You notice my new jumper?
My friends buy me clothes, so I don't look like trash.
I would hardly say you look like trash.
No thanks to you.
Kelly. What is it?
I miss Dad.
Jesus. Well, I do too, sometimes...
No you don't.
He didn't have to kill himself, Kelly. He could have gone out and gotten a job. Christ, he could've found another rich woman... He never had a problem tucking my friends when we were married.
What?
I was raped. By Sam Lombardo.
He... Sam Lombardo?
Yes. God, Mom...
You didn't have to fly back  from  wherever, for me...
I'm here to congratulate my friends and their children. I'm leaving again tonight.
Don't bother. I'm taking a trip.
Where, the mall?
A friend of mine bought a boat.
Is there some reason why you're here?
Curiosity, I guess.
About what? How to improve your breast stroke?
Excuse me?
You all gonna go down to the Caribbean together?
The thing about it is, threesomes so rarely work out.
You're out of your mind.
I've been a cop for a while, Kelly. It's hard enough for one person to keep a secret, let alone three. And then there's the love angle. I mean do you and Sam really want that little pillhead around, now that you have the money?
Am I right, did Sam sell you on the idea right up front, of whacking Suzie? That's murder, Kelly.
Police  God  get a life.
Get off my property.
I'm not on your property!
Will you calm down. Duquette's gonna come to you just like he did to me. You're gonna have to be ready for him.
Yeah, but he can't push you around like he can me. You've got family and they've got clout. With we it's different... with me...
Yeah, I've got family and they've got clout and now you have me. Right? And Sam. Believe me, Suzie, this dickhead's not going to send you anywhere. He's gonna try and rattle your cage, and that's it. Stay strong and he can't do shit.
Man, I wanna smoke a joint.
I can't believe you called Sam. What's the matter with you?
I'm scared, that's what. I'm scared there's no one to trust.
You can trust me.
You're gonna fuck me over, aren't you?
Oh, for Christ's sake.
You are.
Are you retarded, or just brain dead from whiffin' fumes out there in the swamp...
Anybody ever tell you that stuff will rot your brain?
What brain?
What are you looking at?
Nothing.
I thought we were goin' to a movie.
I think we just need to get wasted.
I wanna live at the beach someday.
Shit.
It's those rocks, up there.
You and Suzie used to come out here together?
Yeah, sometimes. Lots of the kids hang out here. You really think something bad happened to Suzie?
Lombardo ever come out here?
I say something funny?
No. But I mean... just the idea that Mr. Lombardo would...
Way I hear it, he was pretty tight with the kids, one of the guys...
Yeah, but...
Come on. Beats study hall, doesn't it?
No!
Thank you, Jimmy.
Hey, man, at least in study hail I could meditate.
You know, I want to thank you for getting me into this class... No way was my old man going to spring for the fees...
Hey, you're working for it. Least you're supposed to be.
What about you, Jimbo, you need a ride?
What?
A ride. You want one?
Yeah. But I got my bike.
You guess? Did he or didn't he?
Yeah... okay... he did
And then what... he touched you? Did you maybe flirt a little...
I wanna go home now.
What did you do then?
Shit, what difference does it make... Nobody's gonna believe me anyway...
Suzie! Did this man rape you?
Okay! He did. He pushed me to the floor and he did it to me. Now, can I go home?
He pushed into me... I couldn't stop him... it hurt.
I'm sorry... you said it hurt? Why?
Because... it was the biggest I've ever seen. And I've seen a lot on their way through Jack's Fish Camp.
Ms. Toller?
I said he did.
Ms. Toller. I'm asking you now, under oath, did Samuel Lonbardo rape you?
This wasn't my idea.
I'm sorry?
He was my friend at first. Then I got busted... he didn't even stick up for me. I had to go away to that hellhole. It's like, you're his favorite, then who cares? You wanna know something? When Kelly said we should do this, I thought cool, all these big shots screwing me over, like that cop, Duquette. Now they're gonna get screwed.
Your Honor... Please...
Or maybe she thought that was what she wanted and she got a little more than she bargained for...
The line I get on this guy, is that he's done half the women in Blue Bay.
Not that stuff about her running away, him trying to find her. That's bullshit.
What about witnesses?
We've got three. Guy mowing his yard, couple of kids playing hoops.
And what do they say?
Are you crazy, Ray?
You heard Kelly say "Sam." That was Lombardo on the phone. And you saw the girls...
Ray. The conversation on this tape is totally unintelligible. What we have here, is you on the Van Ryan property, without a proper warrant, shooting a porn flick...
I don't believe I'm hearing this. A month ago you were pulling these two apart at the courthouse. They were acting. They were all acting, from the beginning. And we bought it, hook, line and sinker... And now they're home free with six million of Sandra Van Ryan's money.
Oh, Ray... no...
You think this is just about money, about us looking foolish? Question him. You're gonna find a stone cold manipulative psychopath. And those girls are going to wind up dead...
Kelly's next, Gloria.
Get off this Ray, now. If there is any evidence here, it's for Homicide. You get an ID, you call me.
I fucked up. I lost control of the situation, the one thing they train you for... God, what did I do?
Just tell us what happened.
I told Kelly Van Ryan she was under arrest for conspiracy and murder. I did her rights.
She bit you?
Bit, scratched. But I had her pinned. She calmed down. I was going to cuff her... She said she thought she was going to be sick. She asked to use the bathroom.
I told her I was coming with her. She nodded, like she understood. We stood up together.
You didn't cuff her?
She looked shaky, but lucid. I thought, I would just go with her, stand at the door... I think I looked away. A split second. Then, bingo. Just like that. She puts a knee into my groin. There was this coffee table between us and the wall. She got one foot on that thing and launched herself at the gun case. Thing had a glass door. I could hear it breaking. I didn't go down, but she slowed me up, just enough. Before I could get to her, she'd turned on me with this small caliber handgun. I yelled at her to put it down. She got off a shot. I took it in the shoulder. I... I had no choice. I returned fire. Two rounds, I think. In the chest.
The teeth, were they...
Suzie Toller's. And that's the only thing saving your sorry ass.
Why?
I think she's acting. I think she set it up to be alone with him because she wanted him to come on to her. I think maybe she's upset that he didn't...
That doesn't make him a child rapist. There's something else. This girl's had some problems. Wrecked a couple of her mom's cars. Ran away...
Where's this coming from?
I worked Juvenile in Dade County for three years. We had a missing persons on Kelly Van Ryan for two weeks... Maybe a year ago... The family kept it out of the papers.
I want a fullscale investigation.
You know what that will mean for Lombardo.
I don't care. You heard that girl's statement. I think he's dirty. Get me a case.
That bothers you?
Yeah, maybe, a little.
Why is that?
You didn't tell me you were gonna put me on the fucking news.
We need to tape the interview, Suzie. No one will see it but us. Now when was this, that Mr. Lombardo gave you the ride?
About a year ago.
He dropped Jimmy off first?
Yeah.
And when he arrived at your house, was anyone there?
No.
So you were alone.
Yes.
Did he come in with you?
I guess.
At that point were you able to fight him off?
No. He stopped by himself. Okay? That's all. Let me go.
He did say something.
What was that?
He said, "No little bitch can ever make me come."
I've got that two o'clock in town.
Back to the land of grownups.
That would make it about the time of her old man's suicide. You don't think that could explain some erratic behavior?
All I'm saying is, I think we should go slow here.
It's our job, Gloria.
Hunter's making it our job because Sandra Van Ryan's got a bug up his ass. You know that as well as I do. We're gonna trash this guy's life and I keep asking myself if it's really necessary.
Same as him. They saw her come. They saw her go. They saw him follow.
Still doesn't explain why he couldn't catch up with her. I mean how long does it take to put on a shirt?
We failed to mention the mower guy's a drunk, that he was after more beer and never really saw Kelly go into the house, so he can't say how long she was in there. Same with the kids. They saw her running down the street, but that's it. With no physical evidence, what do we have? Her word against his.
You're telling me you believe the guy?
All I'm saying is, we let Sandra Van Ryan push us too hard, we're going to wind up looking stupid.
You can go up to one of those trees and peel the bark. You know what you get? More bark. And more bark. There's no core. Tree's not good tar anything but sucking up water. And now they can't get rid of them. They've tried poisons. Nothing works. They don't die.
Yeah, well, Van Ryan got his. I don't imagine he gives a shit now.
You remember that little girl walked out of our talk at Blue Bay?
The skinny brunette.
This is where she lives. She wants to talk. Beats the shit out of me why she would call me at all. I busted her once for possession. she wound up doing about six months at Camp Nine.
You mean Camp SixtyNine.
That's what they called it when I was in Juvenile. It's a pretty dismal place.
It's a shithole. But she was dirty, what was I gonna do?
You saw the news today?
Lombardo's settlement?
Think back, before the suit was filed, before the trial. Lombardo had an affair with Sandra, right? So why not tell us about the affair? I mean it could be a hell of a motive for Kelly to fabricate her charge in the first place.
Maybe Lombardo's attorney was saving the affair for the trial.
I thought of that. Then I said, come on, you're Lombardo. Your reputation is getting trashed. You want to stop the bleeding. You don't want to sit in jail for three months. Unless...
Unless what?
Unless you're setting up Sandra Van Ryan for the big payday.
They chumped us, Gloria, right from the start.
Why? You ask me, Lombardo had it pretty good already, nice job in a beautiful setting, popular, an active social life. He's gonna put this all on the line for some dicey play like what you're describing...
The job looks okay to us. But look at it from his point of view. The man's surrounded by wealth and privilege. But for him... it's just a reminder of what should have been his.
So what about the girls? Suzie's poor, but why would Kelly have to steal from her own mother? Surely her father...
Her father didn't leave her squat. The kid's got money in trust from her grandfather, but she can't touch that till her mother dies and Sandra seems to have the idea that Kelly ought to learn the value of a buck.
This one's got you working overtime, hasn't it?
I flat don't like the guy, Glory. He's dirty. And I'll tell you something else. You want to know how old man Lombardo lost his money? He was fucked out of it by old man Van Ryan, on a little item known as the Salt Creek Land Deal. It was after the war. Van Ryan set up a corporation to develop swamp land, got investors like Lombardo to put up money, then turned around and got the state to declare the area an ecological preserve, on the sly, of course, but everyone knew it was him. The freeway went to the coast, right where Van Ryan wanted it.
Eliminate the competition.
You got it. The rich got richer. While the saps like Lombardo went bellyup in the swamp.
Where'd you come up with this stuff, anyway?
I net a guy in a bar.
Which she might have saved, if she hadn't set out to destroy the man's life.
What? You wouldn't go after some guy you thought raped your daughter? Cone on. She bought the same story we did...
Guess I kind of lost it there.
You could say that.
Were you ever in a situation where you could see a thing coming and you didn't do what you could to stop it?
We all have...
I mean something bad, Gloria, something bad you saw coning, and you didn't do anything, and then it happened. I did that once. I don't want to do it again.
It's starting, Gloria. This is how it begins...
Ray. We don't know anything yet. She could be anywhere...
I'm gonna take you back to the office. Will you put out a call on Suzie's car for me?
You have someplace to be?
If you want company...
Just check out the car.
Two kids could've gotten into a fight, lost a couple of teeth.
Those are Suzie Toller's teeth.
Where's the body?
The swamp, most likely... Lombardo's a swamp rat, knows the body will never be found there. But he's made a mistake.
Her grandmother said she'd been threatening to run away. And I found the car at the Miami bus terminal.
You don't think Sam could've put it there?
Poor dumb Suzie, she never had a chance.
We don't know that, Ray...
Will you do me one favor?
Ray, you heard him...
What if I'm right, Gloria? What if I'm right and Hunter's wrong? What do you do if you see a bad thing coming?
Stick with me on this Gloria. I need you...
And if the teeth aren't Suzie's? You'll give this up?
If I'm wrong about those teeth  it's a promise.
I'm tired, Ray. I'm going home.
Where's Lombardo?
He's leaving the country. And I don't give a shit.
The blood type on the rocks matches Suzie's.
It's Homicide's job now, Ray, let 'em do it. I'll tell you something else, there's more to this story than you know, Ray... If Suzie is dead, I think Hunter may be on the right track...
If old pictures interest you, come back some time, there's quite a collection down in the pagoda. I'll see you get a proper tour.
I'd like that.
And when you turned her toward the door, where did you expect her to go, without a car?
Again. I think we covered this. I told her I was going to call a cab.
Did you call anyone? Did you call her house to see if she got home? Did you call the Masons?
No.
Weren't you a little worried about her...?
There's a strip mall not half a mile from my house. There's phones there. I cruised the place, but I didn't see her. I figured she was probably there but that she was angry and didn't want to be found. I don't know... Maybe I should have called. But it's not like Kelly can't take care of herself. I figured we'd just take it up on Monday, in the office.
Isn't that against the law, peeking into windows?
Suzie Toller is missing.
How long?
She didn't cone home last night. We found her car at the bus terminal, but nothing to suggest she bought a ticket.
Maybe she used another name.
Ray thinks she was murdered.
I don't know what to say...
You could tell me where you were last night.
Kelly's file. Read it. You're going to find an angry, sexually confused girl who's made threats on her mother's life and a female lover she'd never identify.
Suzie?
How are you, Kelly? Would you like to take a break for a minute?
I just want to get it over with. My mom's making me do this. I just want to forget it.
I know you do.
The next thing... his hand was in my shorts... you know, from behind. His fingers... his fingers...
Take your time.
They were in me. Both places... you know.
I understand.
He said something like, "Do you want it dirty7" or something. I tried to turn away, but he pushed me to the floor.
Was there penetration? Did he put himself inside you?
Yes. I said stop. I screamed. I mean that's how it sounded in my head. He hurt me...
That's okay, Kelly. You're doing fine. But I have to ask you something here. When you say it hurt. Was this the first time a man was inside you?
No. I've done it a couple of times, I mean with guys I dated. But this hurt... like, he was built... you know...
He was large?
Did you try to fight him?
I... he had my wrists pinned behind me. I remember my hands were cold.'
Then what?
He kept saying, "Let it happen, let it happen." Then he just stopped.
You mean he withdrew...
Not at first. He was still inside but he wasn't moving or anything... He said we had this secret. And that now he'd be able to help me... because we were close... Something like that. I don't know. It's hard to remember, exactly.
Try, Kelly.
I know one thing he said. It was when... when he took himself out and was standing up. He said, "Don't worry, I didn't come." I can't forget that. He said, "No little girl can ever make me come."
Gator can't see what's in front of it for shit. They see out the sides. That one don't even know Walter's arm's in his mouth.
What if something distracts it and it snaps anyway?
Then I guess Walter can kiss that arm of his goodbye. He don't use it for no good deeds anyway.
You come all the way out here to watch Walter?
I was wondering if I could ask you a few questions.
About Suzie?
Actually, I was wondering if I might ask you about Ray Duquette.
He used to come around here. He had a thing going with one of the girls over at the Glades.
Got sort of hung up on her, from what hear.
She still work there?
No. Not after that night. I don't know what happened. Maybe he caught her with some john... All I know is, the next morning the girl was gone and there was a dead boy... Indian kid named Davy. Used to live down the road there in a wrecked car. Him and Suzie were at the Glades that night. It was right after that, Ray got Suzie busted and sent her away. That's what there is to say about Ray Duquette.
Was there ever any kind of investigation...
Wasn't enough Van Ryan had to destroy the people who invested here. He got to be old, he and his rich cronies would come down here, hunt and whore, act like assholes. One trip he showed up with this young girl he'd picked up somewhere, gotten her pregnant then dumped her in the swamp. That came with her.
And the child...
She had it, before she drank herself to death. Wasn't exactly a love child...
Suzie. Then you're not her grandmother...
Raised her like she was, but no, Walter's my only child. He was a good boy, till the army took him.
So Suzie and Sandra Van Ryan were half sisters.
And the other girl, Kelly. Suzie's niece.
You okay?
I'm fine. Nice TV.
How soon can we get something?
We can get blood type right away. Dental records will take longer. You want DNA, that can take weeks.
Merritt, Forensics.
The teeth doin' any talkin'?
Ray. Stop calling. I told you the dental records will take time...
What about the blood?
Could be hers. Types match. Could be a lot of other people's too...
Second you get something on those teeth, I want it
Not that I'm going to be much good after last night...
Eat a power bar.
Is that Sandra Van Ryan's kid?
Kelly.
She's going to wash your Jeep?
Senior class fundraising gig. I told 'em they could hose down the Jeep. Hey, come on. It's for a good cause.
You look pretty.
Thanks.
Hey, I've got it, I may as well spend it, right? I've always wanted to live where I could dive for my dinner.
And where might that be?
I was thinking, Antigua, maybe.
I love Antigua. Maybe I'll come visit you.
I'd like that.
So, did you set 'em all straight on the ugly facts of life?
I have the feeling, they got it down already. They're a step ahead of us, Artie.
Talk to me Artie.
Kelly Van Ryan...
... is accusing me of rape. Jimmy told me. Apparently I'm the last to know...
Sam... I... Sandra Van Ryan's been on the horn with every member of the school board all day long. She's pushing for suspension...
This is insane.
All I can tell you Sam, is hang in there. They clear you of this mess, you get reinstated, with back pay...
That's great. I'll just tell my creditors I'm not a rapist. No problem... Shit. I can't believe the board's going to act without even hearing my side of it.
The Van Ryan family created Blue Bay. They built the school... Sandra Van Ryan calls up the board and says kiss my ass, they say, left, right, or in the middle. You're gonna need some help on this one, Sam. You're gonna need a lawyer, and he'd better be a good one.
How you doing, Artie?
I... You know... I...
In a hurry, are we?
I was in the middle of a melodramatic exit. It wouldn't really make a statement if I tiptoed out the door...What are you selling?
Bad news.
People pay good money for that?
I'm just a messenger.
Oh no. No way. I've had all the bad news I can take for one day.
It's about your parents.
My parents? What do you mean?
I'm terrible at this. I blurt. I'm a blurter. Your parents...They ...well...they exist no further. Skinnydipping. The Amazon. Piranhas. It wasn't pretty.
You've got the wrong guy. The closest my parents have been to the Amazon is the Brazilian pavilion at Epcot.
Well kid, I'm speaking of...your biological parents.
How quaint.
It's spring break. I don't want to go to a will reading.
Are you familiar with "Heaven?"
I'm seventeen. I know it like the back of my hand.
Your fathered owned the entire "Heaven" empire. You own it now. Any questions?
Smashing! Welcome to the family, Ted. You are going to breathe some new life into this place. You are going to set the world on fire! You are going to...call me Uncle Billy? Please?
Uh, sure. Uncle Billy.
I have only one concern...
You do like girls, don't you?
Of course I like girls.
A lot? I mean, a whole lot?
As much as possible.
You're sure?
The parties are held in here when the weather dips below seventy. Which is seldom.
Seldom? No kidding?
Ah, in other words, this is the apresorgy salon?
Indeed it is. During the day, visitors prefer to be outside, au naturel. As it were.
Maybe she needs help, Ted. You should be a gentleman.
I...uh...I think she's doing fine on her own.
We don't allow TIPN, Ted.
Tipping?
There you are, Tedbaby. Everything all right?
Yeah. Everything's cool.
You ready for your big coming out party? Everybody's dying to meet you.
Just a couple of finishing touches. My parents always said you never get a second chance to make a good first impression.
They said that? Really? Oh, your parents. The Nelson's. Right, right. How midwest. I like that.
Truth is, I'm a little nervous.
YOU? Nervous? Why on earth should you be nervous?
All those people out there. It's a lot of pressure.
Huh! You laugh in the face of pressure!
I do?
You are a multimedia magnate. The Tycoon of Tits. The Baron of Bottoms.
You're the Sultan of Semen. The Monarch of Masturbation. The Merchant Prince of Lust. You. Ted. Are the King of Coitus.
Me? The King of Coitus?
The Supreme Sovereign of Sexuality.
Whoa. But...that's the thing... I've never even actually...
Why, look who's here.
I told you you could do it.
I was like a different person tonight.
You were the new and improved you.
I would have been laughed right out of Xenia.
No one will be laughing at you now, Ted. You can take that to the bank.
It's really going to be strange going home in a couple of days.
You ARE home. But go ahead, finish school, do what you feel you need to do. In the meantime, I'll be your point person here on the magazine.
Really? You'd do that for me?
I've been very lazy for a long, long time.
You seem like you're anything but lazy, Uncle Billy.
I never finished school myself. Never had to. My brother built this empire from nothing but his wife's perky tits and a whole lot of gumption. He gave me a cushy job on a silver platter. I never struggled for a second.
My parents always say hard work builds character.
It's not like I didn't have ideas, I had plenty of ideas. But I never even shared them with your father. Never had the guts.
What kind of ideas?
Well...for one thing...I think it's despicable that we exclude so many women that only fit our western notion of "classic beauty."
You think we should be more open minded?
The world is a big, beautiful place. We can open new markets in Africa and Asia. Imagine the Dali Lhama reading our magazine.
In other words, our scope is too narrow.
At our press conference tomorrow, I think we should announce our plans to explore the world. Not just a few leggy 36D's, with blond hair upstairs and down.
That's perfect.
Don't forget to tell them all your qualifications.
I'm Ted Nelson. I guess you already know that part. For two years I've been the editor of the high school paper in Xenia, Ohio. I've won some awards, made a difference. I've always had journalism in my soul. Now I know why.
So far, so good. Some of them have real Angel potential.
Really? So I'm doing OK?
My father must've been amazing.
He was in a league of his own.
I never saw anybody turn so many shades of red.
I can't wait to see the pictures.
It was incredible. The light, the crowd, everything.
Such enthusiasm. Have I told you lately how proud I am of you?
Seriously? I'm doing all right?
You're taking this bull of an empire by the horns, but you're still keeping your small town values. You're not letting all this "stuff" spoil you.
I owe it all to you. Without your help I'd be lost.
I wish I knew you years ago, when my brother was alive. I wish he never gave you up.
Yeah, well, like my Grandpa used to say...you can't change your Christmas past, but you sure can exchange your Christmas presents.
I'd love to, but I really need to crack the books. Final exams are coming up and I've been slacking.
You're right. I should work, too. Our first issue together is almost ready to print.
Thanks, Uncle Billy. Thanks for everything.
You're a great kid. Don't you forget it.
Yes?
We've got a huge problem with the magazine, Tedbaby. Our readers hate it. HATE IT. We need to talk.
I loved my brother. I stood by his wishes to let his son run the company. A son he never knew. A son that he and his wife gave away at birth. A son who was raised in a world quite different from our own. Nevertheless, I was there for the lad. I guided him as best I could. But he's only seventeen, with a mind of his own and judgment that is, well, frankly, not a chip off the old block. There is only one clear solution... And I think we all know what that is
PEACHES! CANNED PEACHES!
What are you doing?
My job. Back off, Benedict.
Thanks for teaching me an important lesson. What makes a family is love, not blood.
All is fair in "Heaven," Tedbaby.
That's right. And guess who's the new King of the Unemployment Line.
Aw, come on, kid. Throw me a bone. I'm your uncle for gosh sakes.
I like you, Ted. You know that. I liked you before you were filthy rich.
Thanks, Principal Merkin.
I'll be blunt. I know you can take it.
Yes, sir. I'll brace myself.
Ted, you are the best editor this school paper ever had. You don't need to be pandering flesh. It's nonsense. It's beneath you.
You think I ought to just tell them thanks but no thanks? I don't want your silly billion dollar empire?
That's a good start, yes. A very good start.
Are you kidding? This magazine is my dream. It's every redblooded, heterosexual male's dream.
I never figured you for a pimp.
Have you ever even looked at "Heaven?"
What kind of sick question is that? I'll be watching you, young man. Your money and power mean nothing here. Nothing.
I guess you won't be wanting that Rolex I sent you, then?
With all due respect to Merk, he doesn't have to read my magazine. But he has no right to stop others. Ever hear of the First Amendment?
We cannot afford free speech if it excises the moral fiber of this community!
If that were true, this would be one seriously constipated town. Most guys in Xenia have been looking at naked girls in "Heaven" since they were old enough to figure out their dads hide it under the mattress.
Honestly, Merk. It's like you were never seventeen and the head of a media empire.
Rules are rules.
Come on, it's our only senior prom.
Deaf ears, Mr. Nelson. I answer to a higher power.
You're crossing the line, Mr. Nelson.
A statue in front of city hall, dedicated to Principal Dick Merkin?
I'm warning you.
A new pediatric wing at the hospital? A presidential campaign? Name it. Anything.
You kicked us off your turf, Merk. Don't rain on our parade.
Mr. Nelson, you disappoint me. First you break our school board rules. Then you break the law.
What law, Merk? Having fun? Letting down our hair on prom night?
Our state has a zero tolerance policy for underage drinking.
You called the cops on us?
Alcohol does horrible things to a developing young mind.
What is this? Does everybody know everything I'm about to say or do every freakin' minute of the day?
No cursing in this house, young man. Use the strong vocabulary God gave you.
I don't have a shred of privacy in this whole stupid town!
That's part of growing up, honey.
What? Having spring break ruined by will readings?
What about Charlie? You boys could make it a little adventure.
Charlie, at a will reading? What did I do to deserve this?
I'm all right, Mom. I'm not in Siberia, you know.
Did you have a nice flight? Are they taking good care of you?
Yeah, I'm doing fine. I have so much to tell you. I don't even know where to begin.
Save it, honey. We want to hear every detail when you get back, but we don't want you to run up Mr. Zukerman's phone bill.
It's okay, Mom. Trust me.
Well? Surprised?
What is all this? When are you coming home?
Just a few tokens of my affection. I'll be back soon, don't worry.
Everything is lovely, Ted, but much too expensive.
Mom. Believe me. I could buy all that AND the factories they came from.
Oh, good lord. Are those Neptunes?
Only the best for my mother.
You promise you'll finish school?
I'll make you very proud.
You don't have to work another day in your lives.
But how would we pay our bills?
Don't you get it? In one day I earn more interest than the store's entire annual revenue.
Oh. Goodness.
You're free. You can do anything you ever wanted to do!
Like what?
Like take that trip to Buckingham Palace. Go deep sea fishing in the Gulf of Mexico. Now's your chance.
But who would run the store?
Forget the store. Think big.
Everything I am is because of you. Can you ever forgive me?
Oh, Teddy. We missed you so much.
I need your help. I'm really in deep shit.
Don't say "shit," honey. Use the strong vocabulary God gave you.
So, William Randolph. Your last big scoop contrasted the popularity of Rice Crispie Treats and chocolate Snickerdoodles at the annual bake sale.
That's just one example. My reporting has made a difference.
Let me guess: retail sales of little chocolate sprinkles have gone through the roof!
The school dumpsters used to overflow to the point where the stench was unbearable. My award winning expos changed all that. The city added an extra weekday trash pickup.
Is it true? Is ignorance bliss?
Look, I loved "Exposed!" and I hate it that you got busted. I know the school paper sucks in comparison, but it's really not THAT BAD.
Don't even tell me you're hot for Miss Titty Pom Poms over there.
Christy's a very talented journalist. I see a Pulitzer in her future.
I didn't know they gave them for Best Lip Gloss Retention During a Blow Job.
Meow.
Go ahead. Ask her to the prom. Get it over with.
I have absolutely no intention
Do it. I tripledogdare you.
I tried to warn you, William Randolph. She's got stiletto heels hidden in those Keds.
But you tripledogdared me.
It was for your own good, in a twisted sort of publicly humiliating way.
A few billion bucks and suddenly he's CroMagnon Man of the Year.
It's so nice to have FRIENDS like you, Christy.
What is it, William Randolph? Your balls need scratching?
Your article sucked.
In what sense?
In the sense that there is no "hidden agenda" behind a bake sale that raised five hundred dollars for seeing eye dogs.
Ah ha! It was so well hidden, you didn't even know it was there.
Come on, Julie. Don't screw up. You have some real talent.
Just because someone died and made you king of the publishing world doesn't mean you're even one ounce smarter than you were a week ago.
I'm trying to help.
I'm still better than you. Nothing changed except the decimal point in your savings account.
That's not ENTIRELY true.
What do you want from me? I'm trying to be fair. But I can't keep you on staff if you turn every PTA meeting into an Agent Orange cover up.
Then I'll write about YOU.
Me?
"Local boy inherits more money than god." Call me crazy, but I smell human interest.
Really? You wanna write about me?
I have to admit, I always felt... different.
Different how? Different like a dwarf at a basketball game? Or different like a lesbian in pumps?
I don't get the distinction.
Could everybody else tell you were different, or were you the only one who knew?
I felt limited. I felt confined. I felt like I was suffocating.
I see. So more like a tight rope walker who secretly wants to be a trapeze artist.
I guess.
Interesting.
She said peanuts, you cretin.
You never know around here.
Don't write that part.
Is this an gritty expos or a candy ass press release?
Write what you want. Just try not to make it so obvious that you're crazy about me.
Life must be peachy on Planet Ted.
Funny you should say "peachy."
I did my homework. Your grandfather was a peach farmer.
My adoptive grandfather. Who knows what my biological grandfather did.
Undoubtedly an aristocratic bartender of some sort.
Considering this is your first time on a private jet, on which you are interviewing the world's most eligible bachelor, you are extremely cavalier.
I bet there are lots and lots of mirrors on Planet Ted.
See? You're impertinent, rude, sarcastic.
And this is not my first time on a private jet, so quit acting like I'm Rebecca of Sunnybrook Farm.
A little respect would be nice, that's all.
Well? What do you think of her?
You're so twitterpated you don't even see the miner's hat and the pickax.
You're implying she's, what, a gold digger?
Charlie's right. Jealousy is so unattractive.
Second only to unbridled, narcissistic conceit.
Why can't you be nice to me?
You've got enough people kissing your ass.
Wow...you clean up nice.
Put your eyeballs back in your head, William Randolph. I'm on assignment. A girl has to fit in.
Where are we going?
To the best hiding place in the world.
I can't believe your dad built this for you.
He didn't. He had it built.
Whatever.
Not "whatever." It's two different things.
He cared enough to want you to have it.
He phoned it in.
I see.
I doubt it.
Now it makes sense, the whole neo Bohemian, down with hypocrisy, fight the power crap. You're a poor little rich girl.
The ozone must be fully depleted on Planet Ted.
You think my dad would have been like that if I knew him? You think he would have bought me a stadium, instead of teaching me how to play ball?
Your dad taught you everything.
I mean my father.
A father is nothing but sperm, Ted. It takes a real man to be a dad.
It's all so complicated.
It's incredibly simple.
I feel like I'm being drawn and quartered. Like every part of me is being pushed and pulled and tugged in a different direction.
Eventually you'll let go.
And then what?
Then you'll see who's really holding on to you.
You're amazing.
I know.
Even when you infuriate me, I still want to kiss you.
But you never do.
If we were a team, we could do anything. I mean, anything.
Cut to the chase, William Randolph. Your audience is way ahead of you.
In a word: MERK. EXPOSED.
That's two words. And I'm out of the "exposed" business, remember? I need to graduate. Besides, Merk's a boy scout.
There's gotta be something. We have to dig deeper.
You forget, I dislike YOU at least as much as him.
He shut down your paper! You're stuck writing articles about swap meets and raffles and PTA brunches!
A good journalist can take lemons and make lemonade. I'm honing my craft.
Then you won't mind covering that watermelon seed spitting contest next week...
That's probably my office.
Well? Where the hell are you?
He's on the move?
I got an anonymous tip and an address in Cincinnati.
Let's do it.
I don't know. This place seems pretty tame.
You expected whips, chains, Merk being cattleprodded by some dominatrix in a leather hood?
At least it's not another 4H meeting or a Big Brother barbecue.
Amen to that.
Look at us. It's one o'clock in the morning, on a school night. We're in a smoky nightclub, hoping to catch our principal with some big city tart.
I'm trembling with excitement.
That has more to do with your proximity to me.
My desire betrays me, like goosebumps on my flesh.
I have a bit of a goosebump fetish. Not many people know that.
I figured you for more of a hairy armpit guy.
Shoes, if you want to know the truth. Shoes are my thing.
Wearing them? Or humping them?
My fantasy is a totally naked woman, wearing nothing but a Timex and suede clogs.
That's refreshingly deviant.
What about you?
I'm very aural.
Tell me more.
Sounds, voices, music, humming. All of it can turn me on, or off, like a switch.
I see.
I had a Portuguese boyfriend who could read the phone book and melt me.
A Portuguese boyfriend. Sounds very "Cosmo."
You live and learn. I realized the most important thing to me, above all, is trust.
Turned out to be a scoundrel, eh? I saw that one coming.
You lose trust in someone and it's over, done, gone, forever.
Do you trust me, Julie?
Not a chance.
Come on.
Trust is something you earn, over time. You don't just inherit it overnight like a gazillion dollar empire.
I want you to trust me.
Maybe someday.
Julie, I'll tell you something that is the god's honest truth. I've seen a lot of really beautiful girls. I mean a lot. But none of them make me feel like you do.
That's hard to believe.
But absolutely true.
I have to be honest with you, Ted. I really despise "The Girls of Xenia."
I know, their small town mentality can be maddening.
I mean your pictorial. It bothers me, profoundly.
Aw Julie, it's my job. It's like being a doctor.
You're telling me you don't get aroused by a roomful of naked breasts.
You've seen one naked breast, you've seem them all.
Which explains the continued success of "Heaven" for how many decades?
You're quick. I like that.
You think you're working with chimps here?
The thing is, I made a commitment. I said I'd do it and I have to keep my word.
Keeping your word is something I can actually respect, Ted.
Julie, wow. I was afraid you left. I was afraid I'd never see you again.
I'm not going anywhere, Ted. You're the one with the champagne wishes and caviar dreams.
I decided to let Helen run the magazine. I need to go to college, learn a few things, you know.
And I thought maybe I'd take up boating. I've always wanted to be a "coxswain."
Very ambitious. I like that.
The thing is, I'll need a first mate.
I know where you can find any number of naked girls who'd love to hop on board.
Planet Ted. Five years from now. What's happening?
I graduated from college. Did great, summa cum laude and all. And I'm about to launch a brand new magazine called "EXPOSED!" An homage to Miss Julie Conroy of Xenia, Ohio.
I know where you can find an excellent editorinchief.
Yellow pages?
Let your fingers do the walking.
They're playing our song. Dare I ask for this dance?
You better.
Mom, Dad. Meatloaf has come to represent all that Ted hates about his mediocre life and the world we live in. He's what you'd call clinically bummed.
Why can't we have pot roast or stroganoff or even a little London broil? I mean, for god's sake, we own a grocery store!
James, what are you doing here?
You can call me Jimmy again. Sheryl Petersen said James sounds too pretentious.
Sheryl Petersen is, what, nine years old, what does she know?
She knew exactly where you were staying, which you neglected to tell me, your own brother.
It's really late...do your parents know where you are?
Impressive. This is bigger than our whole house.
Most places are, Jimmy.
They say money can't buy happiness but this is a reasonably good facsimile.
So, what brings you here at his hour?
My new bike.
Very funny.
I came to ask permission to take custody of your room.
My room?
Better view, more spacious, new carpet. It's a nobrainer.
It's not up to me.
Mom and Dad said it's yours. They seem to think you're coming home.
You can have it, then. I'm not going back there.
If you could just sign right there.
You want it in writing?
Just a formality.
That's it? I mean, you don't want to order room service or anything? We could play games and watch movies and stuff.
Are you kidding? Mom and Dad discover I'm gone and I'll be doing hard time.
Are they okay?
Aside from the fact that Mom's eyes are nearly swollen shut from crying and Dad spends all his time under the car trying to fix stuff that isn't broken, things couldn't be better.
I miss them, too.
You can't come back. That is, you can, but your things will be in the room you currently think of as mine.
You're a peach.
Funny you should say that. My Grandfather was a peach farmer.
He was my Grandfather, too.
I meant biologically.
That's a crappy thing to say.
Look Ted. I'm cool with everything. You've long been dissatisfied with our mediocre little town. You've always had an itch for the good life. I'm happy for you. This couldn't happen to a nicer guy.
But just for the record, my Mom is a kickass schoolteacher and my Dad is the best damn auto mechanic this side of the Himalayas. You seem to have forgotten they opened Nelson's FAMILY Market so they could build something permanent, a legacy, for us. Their kids.
I didn't forget.
You ever look down on them again and call them "grocers" like it's a dirty word, and you'll be sucking your filet mignon through a straw for six to eight weeks. Got it?
Great.
From my wise, albeit youthful, vantage point, the world is your oyster. You scored big.
How are the hometown folks treating you, back in Xenia?
Well, Jay. They've been exceptionally supportive.
Are they hitting you up for donations? Asking you to sponsor the local quilting bee?
I'm no stranger to the notion of philanthropy. Andrew Carnegie has long been one of my idols.
What about the future? You planning to rock the boat at all? Stir things up in "Heaven?"
Matter of fact, Jay, my uncle and I are planning to rethink the magazine. To expand the traditional western notions of "beauty."
I see, so you'd be open to little ladies from Pasadena, who want to show you their knickers?
Matter of fact, Jay, I'm planning a pictorial focusing on the women of my hometown, "The Girls of Xenia." Just to show my appreciation.
You're on the next plane home.
I'm Helen McDole. Your father's executive secretary.
No problem, consider it done. I had this idea of shooting on location. Outdoors, you know? Maybe at some famous Xenia landmarks. You think that would be a problem?
We'll send you the release forms, Ted. Our staffers will help in any way they can.
It's a little more serious than that, Bill. The stockholders have requested a meeting. They want our guarantee that this will never happen again. Some of them are even calling for Ted's resignation.
Look, the girls of Xenia are gorgeous, you'll see. Next month we'll be back to normal.
Your parents never wanted to interfere with your life, Ted. They knew your Mom and Dad loved you very much. They knew they did the right thing. But that doesn't mean they didn't watch you and miss you, from afar.
You mean they knew who I was?
They kept this scrapbook of your life. It meant the world to them.
I wondered about them, for so many years. I wondered if I looked like them, acted like them. I wondered why they gave me up.
Giving you up was the most unselfish thing they ever did. When they founded "Heaven," they wished they could take you back but it was too late. All they could do was build the empire, knowing that someday it would all be yours.
My legacy.
Your parents would be crushed to think you weren't happy with it.
They're not my parents, Helen. My parents are back in Xenia and I hurt them very much.
I understand.
And the girl I love, she hates "Heaven." If I keep it, she'll never respect me.
But how can you respect yourself if you don't?
Oh, sweetheart! We wish we could be right there to hug the living daylights out of you!
But if you're watching this, then it means we bit the dust.
But don't worry...we'll be in heaven. The REAL heaven, I mean. Not that heaven is an actual place, but more like a state of being. Or not being. Who knows. Maybe we know now.
If you're anything like yours truly, then you probably figure we didn't want you when you were born, so who cares if we're dead? Am I right?
But we did want you. It's just that you don't always get to keep what you want. We knew you needed a real mom and dad.
We had no idea the nudie magazine we started in the garage would turn into all this.
Can you believe that was me?
Before we knew it, we created the most popular men's magazine in the entire nation. The rest is history.
So here we are. Dead. But we never want you to want for anything. That is, we want you to have everything.
Everything.
II don't have the keys.
They're in the ignition, silly.
You do know how to drive?
I don't have much experience with a...uh...stick.
Want a lesson?
Now release the brake. And slide the stick into first gear.
Got it.
The first time can be awkward. You just have to get on and try again.
I don't even know if I should be doing this. It's a very expensive car.
It's your car. These are all your cars.
Some of them have to be automatics.
Your father liked shifting. He said it brought him closer to the engine. "Like a woman, purring with ecstasy."
I'm Ted, by the way. I think I forgot to say that.
I know. I'm Ginger. Miss April.
The one with the horses.
That's me.
I almost didn't recognize you without...you know...that stallion between...your...uh...legs.
Hey, Ted. Wanna go shopping?
Shopping, really? I should tell my friend.
Don't worry. He found the chocolate room.
Hi ho, Silver.
Who exactly ARE you?
What do you mean? I'm Ted Nelson.
And who IS Ted Nelson?
Or do you have a taste for the good life, Ted? It's in your blood.
I always knew there was more. I felt it.
Then remember, you are the heir to a billion dollar empire. You have a staff of literally thousands. Multiply everything you ever imagined by a million and you still can't even wrap your head around everything that is yours. ALL YOURS.
Teddy? I was thinking.
Hmmm?
After graduation...maybe we could go away together?
Whatever you want.
Teddy, I thought we were having a moment here.
Of course we were.
Ted! Do something!
What do you want me to do?
This is humiliating. We're being ejected from a prom!
Hang in there, I'll think of something.
Well?
I guess...I don't know...I guess we should leave if we're not wanted.
We understand your disappointment, Teddy. Christy is a pretty, sexy, provocative, voluptuous... We...uh...we understand your disappointment.
It's my private business! Mine!
I remember spring break of my senior year. Seems like a lifetime ago.
Dad, please.
Grandpa was so strong back then. Working from the crack of dawn. So proud of his peaches.
Remember how you struggled through that whole facts of life talk and then found out I knew more than you?
You're way ahead of me again?
It was the year of the rhizopus rot. Grandpa almost lost the farm. You sacrificed your dream to go to the prize hog festival. And in the end you saved the peaches and you didn't have to slaughter your sow.
The lesson being?
Sometimes you have to do stuff you don't want to do. It's all part of growing up. And it usually works out peachy in the end.
I'm getting so good at this.
You guys are my parents.
Of course we are.
They didn't want me when I was born. Why should I care...
Son.
Well, why should I?
They had a rough life. Your father was a bouncer. Your mother was, well, a twobit stripper. There was no place for a baby.
I guess.
They did do one great thing. They gave us our boy.
Yeah.
Be a sport. How bad could spring break in Los Angeles be?
I guess we could go to Disneyland or something.
Think of it as a rite of passage to manhood.
Like one of those "National Geographic" specials with the topless chicks?
Whatever helps you cope.
I guess it's better than having tribal patterns carved in my face.
There ya go. Always remember, focus on the peach...
...not the pit.
Ted, it's your dad. I have a question for you. I don't know how to put it tactfully. You know I'm lousy with words.
Just say it, Dad.
I know they were simple people, but did this trip help your college fund at all?
Dad, let's just say I can buy anything I want in the whole bookstore. Including the bookstore.
Well, good. Every little bit helps.
Finally, some gratitude.
We're grateful, Ted. It's not that. Those Craftsman tools...they're a dream come true.
But those are our dreams, son. We have to make them come true.
Consider me your fairy godfather, except without the fairy part. No more mealy apples and bruised bananas, ever, for the rest of your lives.
Sorry I
It's okay. You need me?
Your mom said you've been ignoring your chores.
I paid off the mortgage! I ordered that Winnebago you always wanted! Now you're ashamed of me?
You ordered a Winnebago?
THAT is your dream, not mine. My dream is so far beyond anything YOU PEOPLE could even imagine.
Watch your tone, mister.
Why don't you just admit what this is really all about? I'm not your real kid and you can't control me anymore.
Shut your pie hole, Jimmy.
I will not have my boys arguing.
We have a truckload of strawberries arriving on Tuesday morning.
We own a small family grocery store.
We can't accept it. It's much too expensive. Right, dear?
Of course, dumpling. Its very nice of Ted but...
Sweetheart, what is it?
I always wanted Craftsman tools. He even got me the limited edition Buckeye colors.
Oh, honey. We can't accept this extravagance.
Ted, we put a lot of love in our business.
We wanted you and Jimmy to have it someday. Something real and honest.
We love our lives just the way they are.
You have to understand. This was a big shock, for all of us. One minute you're our little boy, of whom we could not be more proud. The next minute you're the owner of this whole pornographic empire.
But that doesn't make you the boss of everything, son.
Don't you see how your self involvement and lack of humility are affecting the whole family?
We're not ashamed of you, Teddy. We don't approve of the magazine or the models or the socalled "flesh parties" you attend. But we can get past all that.
We miss you. We miss our son.
We miss our family.
We think you should give up the magazine. Sell it. Let someone else run it. Whatever it takes.
We want you to go to college, find a career you love, marry a nice girl from a nice family, and live happily ever after.
Wouldn't it be awesome if we were about to say the exact same thing?
From your lips, to God's ears.
You go first.
Ladies first. I insist.
Well. The prom's coming up.
Yeah?
And I was wondering.
Yeah?
If you don't have...I mean...
Teddy? Would you please please please take me to the prom?
SHUT UP! Are you serious? Of course I will...of course.
Ted, have you lost your mind?
You like me. I like you. I guess it's pretty obvious to everyone.
I don't LIKE you. We're JUST FRIENDS.
But that smile.
Oh, Ted, DUH. I smile at everyone since I got my braces off.
So you'll think about it?
You really don't get it, do you? I am genetically programmed to desire a big, buff, manly man who can defend and provide for me and my yet to be conceived offspring! It's, like, a caveman thing!
So that's a maybe?
The answer is NEVER, Ted, NEVER. Except maybe in your dreams.
Great jacket, Teddy Bear.
Yeah? You like?
Makes your shoulders look so big and broad.
Hi, Teddy Bear.
Christy? You want to be in "Heaven?"
I turned eighteen over spring break. I'm eligible.
I thought I'd be nervous, but you sure know how to make a girl feel relaxed, Teddy Bear.
I do? I mean, yeah, I do.
I have to admit, I am so totally turned on. We should do it. Now.
Do it?
You know...take the pictures?
I remember the first time you walked into Mrs. Temple's class in 2nd grade. Blue gingham dress. Blond ponytail.
Which you pulled, hard!
That was code for "I like you."
Remember dress up day? You and Charlie lifting skirts during recess.
I miss those days, when schoolyard sexual harassment was without consequence.
Things change. Now I'm taking off my clothes...all by myself.
Well?
You have changed since second grade.
I mean, what do you think?
You expect me to think at a time like this? There isn't a drop of blood in my brain.
Oh, Teddy Bear, you're funny.
I was always too shy to admit how much I liked you.
Come on, I was hamburger. You were porterhouse.
Maybe on the outside. But inside, deep down, I've always been dripping with special sauces. Are you hungry?
God, you are so hot.
Then you better get in the water, before you get burned.
What gives, Don Corleone?
We reinvented ourselves.
New Hushpuppies don't make a new man.
You've obviously never had your dogs nestled in thousand dollar Italian loafers.
That explains the emptiness that haunts me.
Jealousy is so unattractive.
Not bad for a hack. He has a future in yellow journalism.
He kicked major ass and you know it.
Naked girls, wild sex, video games. No wonder it's called "Heaven."
This is a fun place...but we don't usually come here until after the orgies.
Never say never.
Oh, god. Look. Look.
Every one of these women thinks she should be the next Angel of the Month. It's your job, Ted, to decide which of them is right.
Let me get this straight...
If it isn't straight by now, son, you probably should see a doctor.
These are real, live women?
We don't generally feature blowup dolls in our magazine. But hey, if you think there's a market for it.
God, I love being dead.
Come on, bro. Spare yourself the humiliation, the degradation...
You and your pep talks.
Don't get me wrong. We can salivate over all the Christy Malones of our lives. Wishing we could devour them like meltinyourmouth filet mignon. But we're strictly hamburger guys. Ground chuck, sixty eight percent lean, is about the best we can hope for.
That's Charlie. My best friend. He's into beef analogies, partly because he's a butcher's son, and partly because, well, he's just into beef analogies. What can I say? He's also a photographer...
I genuinely think she wants me. I feel a vibe.
That vibe is from your wrist, pal. You've been overtenderizing your meat, again.
See? Did you see that?
She smiles at everyone, Ted. She's like a newborn with gas.
The only chick more untouchable than Christy Malone is Miss April. "Hi, my name's Ginger. I love tofu burgers, rainy nights, and riding bareback. My biggest turnoff is cell phones during sex." Here's a tip: set it on VIBRATE, honey, and don't be stingy with the lube. Don't knock it till you tried it.
Were you always this sick?
One thing for sure, Christy Malone ain't lookin THAT good naked.
Someday, I'll find out.
You have a better chance of being hit by a Mack truck with a refrigerated cargo bed full of sirloin tip.
I defy your hamburger theory of life, and all of the unfulfilled hopes and dreams it represents.
That's crazy talk.
I defy any and all limits.
Don't do it, Ted. Don't do it.
Any time, any day, a man can completely reinvent himself.
Think about it...Long tunnel, bright lights, it's full of vaginal symbolism.
Poor Freud, turning in his grave.
Seriously, it's like we're being reborn. We really could reinvent ourselves here, just like you said. Nobody knows about your massive humiliation.
Nobody knows about your mental retardation.
Nobody knows you barfed during junior high school graduation.
Nobody knows about your constant masturbation.
And nobody knows you're a virgin! Aw, who are we kidding...
What are the odds of there being ANOTHER Ted Nelson on our flight?
Astronomical.
Who the hell was your father?
Well, Dad said...
...A bouncer? Are you serious?
Maybe he got promoted.
This is the life, baby. We get ourselves some tail and we're talking SPRING BREAK!
Cut it out, before you break something!
For a guy about to try his first Dom Perignon, you are extremely uptight.
Don't you know anything about limo etiquette? Everything in here is included for our pleasure.
Wait a second, I thought we were hamburger guys.
And like every hamburger guy knows, when you get your one big chance at the good life, you abuse every second of it until they figure out you don't belong there and kick your sorry ass out.
I can't believe that's your mother. We're talking babealicious chub fest, right here in the 501's.
Perv.
This is like my every wet dream come true. I don't even care that you're here, too, bro.
Be cool. Fake it if you have to.
I wonder how many of them will be at the orgy tonight?
This isn't some 80's porno film, you dip shit. There are no wild sex orgies.
Oh. Well. Maybe not yet.
Not ever. Never.
You kiss your mother with that mouth?
I'd kiss your mother with this mouth. I mean, if she wasn't, you know...
So far away? In Xenia?
Yeah, whatever.
Check this out. Hurry!
I better go, Dad.
Hurry.
What is it now?
Check it out!
Don't tell me. Another vision of incomparable beauty?
Beauty? No. We're talking GODDESS.
I get it now. You and me. We're dead.
Dead?
Our plane crashed. In the Grand Canyon. A big fiery explosion. We never made it to L.A. They needed dental records to identify us. And this place. This. Actually. Is. Heaven.
Then there must be a whole room, made completely of chocolate.
And some really fast cars.
Don't be such a pansy. All of this is YOURS.
It's a lot to digest. Imagine how you'd feel.
I'd feel like staying up all night! Forever! Or at least till I got the LAY of the land, SO TO SPEAK.
I feel like I'm entering a forbidden tomb...
...where they get all the really good porno channels on cable.
Oh, how inappropriate is that!
Take a whiff of heaven.
How would you like it if I did that to your mother's panties?
I'd call you a sick, twisted fuck. But this is different. She wasn't your mother mother
Give me those!
A couple of boys fighting over a pair of red silk panties is nothing compared to what he's seen.
Yeah, he's probably been serving cocktails, SO TO SPEAK, at the orgies.
You're late, bro!
Sorry. Ginger got a little, you know, enthusiastic.
You'll never believe who's in there.
It better not be my Aunt Trudy.
I feel like I've just been hit by a Mack truck.
With a refrigerated cargo bed full of sirloin tip.
I thought I loved her.
Chicks are like buses. If you miss one, don't sweat it. There's another coming 'round the corner.
Hell yes, all hundred and seventeen of 'em!
No, leave one. Somebody's grandmother might want one.
And while you're at it, I'll take ten dozen of those puppies with the springy heads.
I love those springy head puppies!
Get them together.
Brilliant! Molly, give me all you've got. For Merk.
Holy stinkers, what were you thinking?
We wanted to challenge the notions of classic beauty. We wanted to showcase women throughout the world.
Next time, make sure you put a barf bag in the centerfold.
You got everything you ever wanted.
Except the girl. The only one that really mattered.
Dr STECKLER?
Yes...?
INSPECTOR DAVE TAYLOR  Scotland yard ...Can I have a word?
Dead?
Or was it, she wished he was dead  that's it  I believe he left the country with another woman  all rather sordid.
So she didn't mention anything more about it?
No  she isn't in any trouble is she?
Oh no sir  just making some enquiries...Just tell her that INSPECTOR TAYLOR called on you  she'll understand
I'll be sure to...
I shouldn't really  I'm not your surgeon...
Who said anything about surgery...It'll only take a moment.
Sugar?
Yes  one please.
ANGEL...
Yes, sorry  He's here to make sure that you are alright
I'm really very sorry  I was banking on this coming through, because it's only five minutes from my surgery...
Surgery? Are you a doctor?
No  a dentist
Just put it in my room
No worries
I'm sorry, I didn't mean to shout...
Don't worry about it 
You're a novelist  why didn't you tell me?
And not just any novelist  a great novelist  it was an impressive piece of work ELLEN...
Her husband left her
Oh...
I thought it was you  how are you?
I'm good  I was just making a delivery near here, so I thought I would see if you were about...
Yes, come on in...
That's good
I'd really like it if you would come round some time  Then I could cook you a meal  what do you say...
Yes, that would be nice  I'll call round some time...
Good  I've got to dash  Say that I said hello to ELLEN for me would you...
Yes  of course.
It's been what, three years?
What's this all about?
So have you seen hubby recently ELLEN?
What brings the rats out of the sewers?
I'm here about the so called disappearance of your husband  It's best if we let old bones lie. Know what I mean? I'm working on the WHITE ANGEL case now  and I've got to check all known murderers or suspected murderers for the last five years... And that means you...So where were you last THURSDAY afternoon around five...
You think I'm the WHITE ANGEL?
It did give me a chance to meet you again ELLEN  It's all routine you understand...So where were you?
At home alone  where were you?
As it happens, I was at home alone  maybe we could solve each others problems?
Get out...
I'd watch her mate  she has thing for men  they disappear near her.
I think you had better leave
I'm sorry, I couldn't  when is she due?
At 2.00...
Well, what do you think?
I don't know  it's your house ELLEN
Yes  but you live here too  If it were your house?
I think he's fine  I don't know why you have this thing about men  it would be nice to have a guy in the house for a change  I don't think he would hurt a fly.
What's wrong with you?
I would prefer it if you kept away from LESLIE
What?
You heard me  keep away from him
You don't own him you know  you can't tell me not to see him!
Yes I can...
I want you out now
Leave!? Who the hell do you think you are?
I'm your landlady
What happened?
I had an accident  I fell down stairs...
Is LESLIE here?
No he had to  he's just  he's out...
He saved my life you know  has he told you...
It doesn't mention 'females only'
I really don't know what to say
Oh  Tell me ELLEN, I can call you ELLEN?
Sure...
Tell me  ELLEN CARTER Forgive me for being so pushy, but aren't you a novelist? Didn't you write that terrific book  'The Color of Fear'?
I lost the touch
The touch?
Do you take sugar?
Yes, two please. I'm sorry, I didn't mean to pry, it's just that I really loved your book
What are you doing?
I'm sorry?
What's with all the locks  and hammering
It says in the contract I can have a lock fitted  is there a problem ANGELA?
My names isn't ANGELA...
Yes  I'm sorry ELLEN...
Don't worry  Is that my hammer Well Just make sure that it's put back in the garage...
If you want any  there's some left in the kitchen
I think I will pass...
Sugar?
Yes, one and a half please.
So what do you do?
I'm a dentist
And how long have you been a dentist?
Oh, about six years since I graduated
And how many people have you killed?
I don't know
You don't know?
No  the police say I've killed fourteen  but I've not  I've killed many more. It amazes me how they just haven't found the bodies. What is society coming to when people just don't get missed. I agree, some of them are well hidden  I probably couldn't even show you where I put them  one girl, number eight I think the press called it  she wasn't even mine  I don't know who did it but I didn't
Where do you kill them...
Oh anywhere  whenever I needed to  Do you know how easy it is to take them? You just pick up a hiker, or someone off the streets  they believe so easily you know, 'Look, I have something to show you' I would say  and that would be it. One girl, I think her name is Debbie  she had broken down on the motorway, and I offered to take her to a service station to call for a tow truck  She just got in and I drove away. When I pulled into the layby and took out my knife  she just froze, and said  what do you want?  I said, You know what I want.  But she didn't. Getting rid of the bodies is just as easy  the first I cut up, put in bags with bricks in, and tossed them off Eldridge Bridge in broad daylight. The real problem with my work is the blood  there is so much of it  and it all spurts out so fast  like a fountain. It made such a mess of
my car I stopped working from my car. She could have stopped me you know  If she really wanted too. That is the difference between the confusion of humanity and the purity of the beast  If a dog attacked you  you could easily kill it without any damage to yourself  Why then do people get bitten by dogs  savaged? Why?
I don't know
Because a dog will attack with a ferocity and force that we poses, but centuries of social contamination has run it out of us  that is what sets us aside from the purity of the beasts...Society is rotting  men who once were strong and kept everything working are getting soft  women are making them soft  by the time a pretty girl has reached twenty  she has had three lifetimes worth of fun and attention so she doesn't deserve any more 
Didn't DEBBIE deserve anymore?
No she didn't...
What did you do with her?
You know everyone accuses me of being sick  the press, the TV  but I'm not you know  they are  I don't watch it for entertainment every night  I don't sit and watch it whilst eating my dinner  they all say, how could he cut her up? She was dead  I can't hurt something dead  And all this whilst they slobber down their processed beef burgers by the dozen  I couldn't eat one of those burgers, you don't know what has gone in them!
The press think that the WHITE ANGEL is a woman  why is that? Do you dress up LESLIE?
I don't want to talk about it 
OK, the press call you the WHITE ANGLE because you only kill girls wearing white  why white  white clothes, blonde hair...
I don't know...
Is 'their' colour an expression of their inner self? By that I mean, extroverts wear bright colours  so what are people who wear white?
I don't know...
Is white an expression of innocence? Do you crave innocence LESLIE?
Let me ask you, why do you wear black ELLEN CARTER? What are you running from?
Do you feel sorry for the girls you have killed
Why should I feel sorry  they're dead.
How long have you been watching me?
I have something I have to show you...
Tell me about your wife...
My wife My wife was the only one who really deserved it. LESLIE do this. LESLIE do that. LESLIE it's your fault... She used to tell me what to wear, where to go, what to do  she mothered me...
then why did you marry her 
It seemed like a good idea at the time  why did you marry your husband.
What didn't you like about her?
I hated being treated like a failure  looked down on  my sister used to do that  I hated it  I should have known, when we got married  in a registry office of course  she wore maroon  I just wanted a white wedding I think she thought I was a ticket to the good life. I had a good job, prospects. And she was a slut  I didn't know until too late. One day, I came
You are the first person I have ever told any of this to. We are birds of a feather ELLEN...we're in the same league
I don't think so...This isn't a game you know...There aren't points or leagues. Sure I killed my husband  but I am no killer.
You've killed but you're not a killer
That's right...Don't ever think that you and I are the same  we're not even remotely similar. I did what I had to do for myself, for my own self preservation  not to live out some bizarre role playing fantasy. My husband was sick 
Tell me how it happened...
Why should I?
Why not? Please  it would help me
And how did it feel to be rid of him
Wonderful  like a great release  He was a malignant cancer and I had to remove him  the world is better without him
My mother...? I never knew my real MOTHER  I was adopted
Tell me about your adopted MOTHER
You think I killed my MOTHER don't you?
Did you?
No...I didn't do it...I wish I had but I didn't. I was beaten to it. STEPHANIE became my mother.
STEPHANIE?
My sister  My ADOPTED SISTER 
Did STEPHANIE kill your MOTHER?
STEPHANIE loved me  she got some insurance money and took legal custody of me  she was just old enough. We had a ball for years  we could do anything, anywhere, anyhow...And we did...We would play games  she would be the executioner and I would be the convict  She would strap me into the arm chair and pretend to electrocute me...
What was your relationship with STEPHANIE?
It was wrong  all my life I have been cheated  cheated of anything good  I shouldn't have been born  I was a mistake  my natural mother was a whore  that makes me...
I want it to stop  it all to stop...
Then make it stop...
What?
I know this sounds insane ELLEN, but... Telling you all of this, writing the book... It feels good. Don't get me wrong  I feel like a weight is being lifted from my shoulders... When I tell you what I have done  I can't believe it is me...Yet I know it was. This is like a purging for me...
Psychiatrists would say that you are confronting your demons
Demons... This wouldn't have been possible without you... You have given me incentive ELLEN  I can see clearer now...
What's wrong?
Nothing could be better...
What's wrong?
I am ashamed of what I have done ELLEN. When I read what you had written it made me think  look into myself  I haven't dared look into myself for a long time  I have stopped ELLEN, I can't carry on  I won't carry on. All I want is to start a new life  I want a second chance...You are good to me  you don't condescend, you're intelligent, and very beautiful...
What is it?
Open it...
Yes...
You want me to wear white for you? You must be madder than I thought...
But ELLEN, I told you I have stopped...
But for how long  what will set you off again? You'll be walking down the street and some girl will be wearing a white hat  and that will be it  back on the merry go round...
Where are you going?
Out  I may be some time
We've got nothing to talk about
LESLIE I'm sorry  I  I didn't know what to think
I thought we had a relationship built on trust  and you just slap me in the face...
I am sorry...
LESLIE? Is that good enough?
Yes  I suppose so...
ELLEN, would you like a cup  there's plenty in the pot
No thanks 
First finish your tea...
He doesn't need to...
Why did you let him in?
What was I supposed to do?
I don't like sugar
There isn't that much  you didn't even taste it  What's wrong  don't you like my tea?
It's not that  I just don't want any sugar
Why whats wrong with the sugar 
I haven't been using it recently LESLIE
CRAP!  I wish I had taken a photo of your face when I gave some to that DETECTIVE  What's wrong ELLEN  you look pale  maybe you have been eating the wrong kind of foods lately  it could be food poisoning?
whats wrong...what have I done wrong?
Nothing LESLIE  I just think we should wait...
WAIT FOR WHAT!?
I don't want either of us to come to any harm  please...
You killed my friend!
I loved you ELLEN  why did you do this?
It's what you would do to me
Don't you want me now LESLIE
No  I'll have you after
You see, I am writing this article for CHIC MAGAZINE
CHIC MAGAZINE?
Yes  it's about bank safety deposit boxes  I wonder if you might just explain how they work  and maybe even show me round.
When could I look round?
Well, if you could come sometime just before we close, then I could show you everything and then we could go for a drink to discuss the finer points...
That's very kind of you MR GRIFFITHS...?
BRIAN...
But  If you could show me round now  and I'll meet you later?
Its cramped in here isn't it BRIAN
Yes it is...
Tell me BRIAN, what would happen if the client lost the key?
Then we would have to call in our locksmith to break the lock
So there is only one key...
That's right...
And it can't be forged?
I didn't say that  I'm sure it could be, but our clients must sign in first, checking signatures, and a photo ident  we had a nasty theft two years ago and we've been very strict since then.
Yes, I'm sure you could  but I can't risk you loosing your job
No it's no problem  I do it all the time
All the time?
No  not all the time  I mean
I know what you mean  I'll meet you at VINNIES WINE BAR at six if you like. And don't make any plans for this evening...
Hello MRS STECKLER  we haven't seen you for a long time
No  I've been abroad for a long time...
I shouldn't say this  but you really remind me of someone I know
Oh really  you must remember me from when I was a regular customer.
I wasn't a manager here then MRS STECKLER  don't you remember?
I'm terribly sorry  I have a bad memory...
This must be one of the old keys 
Yes  I have had it for years.
Which do you think is her best shot...
The one on the left  definitely...
Don't give me shit  what do you want?
I've got a tenant coming over later  can I take the afternoon off?
As long as you get the HACKSAW piece done by FRIDAY... FRIDAY?
That's not technically accurate  SIMPSONS murders weren't sexually motivated.
You know that circulation is down for three months in a row.
I heard something like that
Then it's going to be 'I killed for sex'... Listen darling, why won't you let us use your real name for the features  if people knew that it was the ELLEN CARTER writing the features and not just some pseudonym  then we might shift more units. You haven't written anything in four years darling  I know you need this job  and if circulation keeps dropping, there's not going to be a magazine for you to write for...
OH MY GAWD!
I'm sorry  I didn't think
A person could get killed round here just for working late
I thought you were someone else
Well I'm glad I'm not them  what are you doing here so late? Come to that, what the hell have you got that for?
I thought someone was following me  I  er  I just needed my computer and some things...Listen, I'd like to work from home for a few weeks  is that OK?
Why don't you take a few weeks off  you're due some holiday time.
Sounds good  thank you
Don't mention it  now can I get back to my accounts, or do you want to fillet me?
We'd better get to work on the papers.
Papers...?
Standard for a Mayfair marriage. Rowan  there is a codicil concerning the Mayfair assets. They must be... aahhh... held separate from the other party... Michael that is it's in the will  for centuries. Tradition enjoins, Rowan. of course, future earnings from your practice will not fall into 
I've decided not to open a practice here I want to set up a research clinic. For infant genetic disorder.
That's new territory for us...but yes, we can look into that. Explore shelter possibilities, funding bodies. we could 
No tax shelters. No funding. I want to fund the clinic  exclusively. The Diedre Mayfair Research Clinic. I'd like to find an existing building and move in immediately  while we draw up plans for new construction.
That would mean liquidating sizable amounts of cash.
I plan on liquidating almost evetything.
Rowan Mayfair.
Sut McKinley. Marry me.
I thought you were almost engaged, Stu...?
You really love this guy...?
He's got great hands.
Hey  I love gloves I look really great in gloves.
I like him. He can stay.
I thought it was 'whistle while you work.
Is that a crack about our singing...?
Is that what you were doing...?
Mikey  pregnant women get crazy you know that. I mean  hell, they're all crazy anyway  right...?
Comes running out the front door  down the walk to them. MICHAEL seems to pull inside himself. Cool. Aloof.
sooner Or later you're gonna run out of things to change. You always do.
I just  hate it when they're  finished.
Go home, Stu I'll call you.
Bullshit! Let me in! Mikey  there are people who can help figure this ont.
On which planet...?
You can't just 
Go away, GODDAMNIT!
Well, Normie  you won't have to worry about this one being finished for a lonnnnng time. How are the hands...?
The guy I told you about  Aaron...? He says I can learn to control them. That I could lose the gloves at some point.
'Leave bees be  and the bees be nice.' Didn't your father ever teach you that...?
That's a wasp. Fuckers'll sting a tree if they're bored so  where is she...?
Wow...
If you like that type.
You okay...?
Just nervous. Getting married, you know. Got the rings...?
I'm getting  left behind.
Left behind...? This about Rowan...?
Yes. Partly. It's  it's  Stu  do you believe in 
A few hours and I'll be wasting away in Margaritaville. Oh, sweet decadance.
Just don't fall off any ladders.
They like you  kids.
I guess so. The trick is remembering how to act like one. I'm glad you called, Mr. Curry. I wanted to see you. Why don't we go to my office...
I've read the stories  and seen the news coverage.
'Freak at the week.' That's what the TV crew. call it people come right to the house. They have a husband or wife who skipped town  or a missing kid They bring a sweater or a toy  and ask me to touch it. so I can teel them where they are..
I don't remember you at all You  you saved my life Bizarre thing to say, isn't it...?
I'm glad you're around to say it.
My jury's still out on that,
Then call it in. Mr. Curry. Whatever's happeninq to you  death is not the preferable alternative. I'm in the life business  remember..?
Do they keep everything 'out' ...?
As far as touching things, yes. But the vision  that keeps pouring into my head It won't go away God  if I could just understand it.
What do you see...?
Nothing. Absolutely nothing
Just one. The bar's closed.
The one time I want it to work...
You know  doors and keyholes are common signposts in outofbody 
You're not gonna give me the textbook analysia, are you doctor...? My vision was just the chemical reaction of an oxygenstarved brain  and nobody 
No. I'm not. Doctors should be the first ones to admit utter ignorance about some things.
Harder...
Rowan...
HARDER!
Like this...? LIKE THIS...?!
Yessssss...
you're very  different.
I'll bet you say that to all the women who bring you back to life and then seduce you.
What else did you see Michael...?
What're you  a mindreader...? Who was the man on the kitchen floor. ~.?
My uncle. Graham. He and my Aunt, Ellie raised me. He  he  had a stroke Just before Ellie died  of cancer. Last year.
You knelt there, helpless You couldn't save him. There was so such anger in you. Death infuriates you...
It's unbelievable that you can do that.
It  it feels like  like I'm being filled up. crowded out of myself. Like I'm fading away
My mother and I used to take long walks and make up stories about the houses and the people who lived inside. The Queen's house. the Gangster's house. the clown's house Like that.
And whose houses do you design...?
Oh. The Green underwater Ghost's... The Man With The Eyes In His Hands...
You still feel that crazy...?
I was born, in New Orleans, too
Really...? Your family there...?
Nope My father died before I was born. My mother died in childbirth. El1ie was my only blood relation. so she brought me here... the day after I was born.
Too much... too fast...?
Mmhmm. Scared I feel a little like the moth and the flame.
He's very pleased with your response to the surroundings.
He fools around with his patients too.
you touched him  and saw him...? What was he doinging. Kinky...?
It's come to that, huh...? Three weeks  and you need a psychic skin flick to perk up our sex life...?
You look very deep when you do that. It's interesting. We're Complete opposites I'd never just sit and wait for insparation. I'd skip my turn and swap some letters.
Ms. yin, and Mr. yang Aha!
YUHEEYAH. Yuheeyah...? No way, busters use it in a sentence.
Okay. y'all make sure and come back now, reeeeal soon  yu'heeyah.
Why don't you let at do that...?
Just sit there and soak up the vitamin D.
Doctor's orders  ?
Captain's orders.
Far from it, Michael... Don't put me up there.
All I meant was 
You don't know what you meant  because you don't know me.
Christ, Michael  what the hell are we doing...? We don't even know 
Is this the part where you try and talk yourself out of how good this is...?
I'm serious. You don't 
Let's see... Next you tell me all the terrible things about you  and prove that we're doomed to fail  right...? you hate kittens and puppies, you've drivin all your lovers to suicide and those mysterious deaths at the hospital were really 
Stop it.
You stop it. you're loving, and gentel.. You're the most remarkable woman I've ever met  so stop telling me I don't know what I feel just cause you're scared. Cause it won't work.
Seems more like a year than a month.
Michael  this place is increadible. You  you're brilliant... The things you created...
I called Dr. Styles at the Neurological Institute In L.A., remember...? He said he'd see you. He was intrigned.
God knows, I'm intriguing.
Michael, do you want to wear those for the rest of your life...?
MICHAEL +++$+++
You could fly down tomorrow. I could be there the next day I think I can last that long without you.
We're quite a pair, you and I.
Mad. for each other.
Hello...?
Michael! Jesus I've been trying 
Rowan...?
Listen. Last night  oh Christ, this'1l take forever to explain. God, Michael...
What's wrong..?
Michael  I have to go  to New Orleans. I'll  I'll call yati when I 
What about you coming down here...?
Go to LAX and get on a flight to New Orleans. Go to the Ponchartrain Hotel and wait for me. I'll call you there.
Wait a minute. Rowan  what is going on...?
Goodbye, Michael. I love you.
You know...?
I know. It's not possible  but I know.
She  she said I  I was a 
 a witch.
It could've been a tornado  or a  a hurricane. Maybe 
Michael  I saw him! Twice! Carlotta said I  killed Graham  with  with my anger.
Ro  you can't really believe that. Nobody can murder someone with their feelings. I mean  that's CRAZY.
Is it more or less crazy than dying and coming back to life with hands that can see...? God, Michael  what am I...?
C'mon. Let's go to the ho
He's in there! Or are you out for a stroll in the garden ...?! where are you, goddamnit...?!
Even if it's all true  that doesn't make you a witch! It's 1992, Rowan!
But it scares the hell out of you, doesn't it. Michael...?
Stop looking at me like that! I'm not some siren chanting to the moon. And my life is not a cosmic whim! I am in charge of my life   and I want to stay. Everything that was taken from me is here, Michael. All these years, she was there without me. Helpless. I should have been here.
Rowan... Think of what's in that book. Think of last night!
I am! And so are you. You thought you'd found yourself a nice, sensible doctor. pause) Michael, if you don't want 
Do you love me, Michael...?
Yes. I love you. Very much.
I've come home, Michae1, for the first time. I want to stay here  with you.
It'd take mounths... and cost a fortune.
I'm soon to be a very wealthy witch.
What about your work back home...?
They need doctors in New Orleans too. Michael  think what I could do with the money!
I'll bet she had a wonderful smile.
Let's see.
You sure...?
It's the next best thing to being there'  right...?
Everyone  this is Michael curry.
Hello..
Michael  this is Beatrice Mayfair. And this is her brother, Giff
I'm wondering why the hell he hasn't shown up.
He can't hurt us, Michael. It's us  our love. He can't find a crack in it. He can't find a way in.
Maybe he's just  waiting...
If we married, we'd shut him out forever.
Ro, how long have we known each other.
I don't think of us that way  ever.
Either do I. I love you, Ro. You know that. You're a total mystery to me  but I love YOU.
Than letts get rnarried, Michael. I could put a spell on you  and make you say yes.
You're a very bad witch, you know that...?
No, I'm very good  and you aught to know.
Smoking is bad for your heart, Michael.
Hey  I'm getting married in the morning  I already gave up drinking. one crutch at a time, Doctor.
You're just afraid I'll drop dead before I finish the damn house.
And I thought I was the mindreader.
I took off my gloves today  with Aaron   and it was okay.
That's GREAT!
Guess so. I keep thinking about the witches  when I was... down there There was  caring. They saved me, Ro. They said 'go back'... Wel1 I came back  to you  to love you. I like seeing it that way, y'know...?
Aren't we supposed to love somebody for their moral rectitude or their courage or their beneficence 
Their what...?
So how come I love you most when you stick your finger in your chin...?
Wanna snack...?
A little wine...?
Hey  you're bleeding.
Dropped it.
You look a little green.
Mmhmmm...
Maybe the shrimp you bad last night.
Mmhmm...
Gee  look at that. I didn't know alligators came this far up on shore
Mmhmm...
Nobody makes a car like them Nasis...
Did you see the old man on the 
Michael!
No  I didn't kill him. Would you rather I'd let them kill us  after they'd raped me...?
No. This is unreal...
It's not some fairytale in an old book. Michael  look at me. I didn't choose this, Michael. This is who I am. I love you.
I love you too.
Fall in New Orleans... This whole town is waterlogged! The matches, the wood, my clothes, my skin.
That's cause we're below sea level.
ROWAN we're below sea level. I've spent time there myself.
That's not funny.
You did that, didn't you...?
Talking to me dear...?
Remember the first time we made love  and then 
 we made a fire.
Michael  what made you fall in love with me...?
Your beneficence.
I'm serious. Whatever it was  it's still there inside me, isn't it  change and all...?
You alright...?
A little sore. Darm... Finish up my section, will ya...?
Is he  is he gonna die...?
Lock the door. Lock it
Michael  why would he want to hurt Stu...?
I don't know.
If it's a boy  Taylor.
A bit much. Lucas.
Nah  I had a shmuck of an uncle named Lucas. Grayson.
Where are you gitting these...? Aaron  if it's a boy.
When aid you get home last night...?
What were you talking about...?
Yyou look terrible. You're exhausted. You practically live at the goddamn clinic. Even pregnant women who aren't doctors know that You can't 
Dovetails. Gotta be a hundred years old.
Go ahead.
Something's wrong with you.
Nothing is wrong with me. I know something's in there  and so do you.
Hi.
Hi. You  you wanna get some breakfast...? Maybe see a movie...?
I  I... I can't, Michael. There's stuff  at the clinic 
Gotcha.
You've gone away from me, Ro... Someplace I don't know how to get to.
It's not true. You have to believe me.
I can't.
That's not good enough. Why not...?!
I can't leave now. Don't ask me to explain! I just can't!
I've never asked you to explain yourself  because you used to let me inside! But I'm on the outside now... you put me there!
Michael  please  just. a little longer. Don't leave.
Why bother to ask, Ro...? Why don't you just make me stay,..?
Stop it!
How 'bout a backward hex with a threequarter twist...?
You bastard!
You could kill me  right now, couldn't you...? couldn't you...?! Tell me the truth  is it Lasher...? Answer me!!
Michael  I'm sorry... Just give me 
No.
Lasher... Where  where is 
It's alright...it's airight. He's gone, Michael... Gone.
Harder...
Rowan...
Harder...
Like this... LIKE THIS...?
Yessss...
Always loved you. Rowan. Always...
Put  him  down! His  his heart...
How is your heart, Father...? Is the Timex still ticking...?
Let me go... Michaelllllll...
ENOUGH! He is dead. You are here for me now. Michael is gone!
I'll destroy you. I swear it! If you don't kill me, I'll find a 
'Kill you...?' You are my mother. Do you think I would hurt you...?
I am your son. I would not wound you. I could not  ever.
I know. you are my son 
You do not love Michael How can you love  if you lie...?
Lie...?
There are things you will not tell him.
Yes, Michael. Harder. More...
Like this...?
I am with you, my love. Like no other can ever be.
Nooo... NO! Stop!
STOP!
Always loved you..
The wasps were meant for Michael  but there's only so much you can control, isn't there? The great and powerful lasher  undone by a faulty ladder.. Why would you hurt him...?! Answer me.
I 1ove you, Rowan. I've always loved you. I only wanted to be in your thoughts. To bring myself into your thoughts  so I could be as we are now.
YOU VIOLATED ME!!! ON MY WEDDING NIGHT!
Explain this to me  violated...?
You bastard...
Made it...?
It is from love.
To love, you must be able to feel.
If you knew how I yearn for that...
If I could feel like you feel...but I have only others' feelings  . . like breeres that blow through me. Things to be felt, yes  but not nine to feel...
It you harm Michael, I will let my anger loose. And you will feel that. Do you understand...?
LASHER +++$+++
You're very clever, aren't you...?
I am only what you are  what all of you have been. what do you think of yourself now, my love...?
I'm going to have a baby. Michael wants to name it after you  if it's a girl. Diedre Mayfair Curry. Pretty, huh...? Funny  I never really thought I'd ever 
I bring her flowers too.
There is no one here but the dead.
Go away! I don't want you here.
If that were true, I would not be here.
It's very dangerous to assume you know what a woman wants.
From the night on the moor, when I was swept into the world and first knew this exquisite pain  it is a Mayfair who has wanted me! suzann. and Deborah. Stella  Marguerite  Antha  Diedre  All of them. And you will have a child...
A girl...?
It's too soon to know.
you crave what I might show you. What you can learn. What I can give you. So much more than Michael can.
What Michael gives me is stronger than anything you could ever inderstand.
But I could understand. I want to understand!
I LOVE him!
Do not tell me that!
I LOVE MICHAEL. MICHAEL!!
I know that you're evil.
I only wanted to see as others do... feel as others do... ...but Marguerite could not help me. Nor Julien...
And now you expect me to stockpile corpses for you...?!
No, my love. I want nothing more of the dead. I want you to  chang me.
I've waited for you  the one whose science could match her powers... Do you know what it's like  to sense the majesty of something so sublime just beyond your reach...? to float in a dream that keeps a .promise halfhidden in its shadows..? I did not choose to be such as this! Suzanne brought me here. She called to me!
But have I...? Ever...?!
 and I have heard you from the beginning... from it's very first beat.
I love Michael...
Then help me for his sake...
You mustn't hurt him. Mustn't  mustn't hurt..
Focus all your powers on me, Rowan until it is done. Only me...
Only you...
Change me, Rowan, and we can change everything...
Go on. Rowan. Go on.
Leave me alone!
What is wrong...?
Wrong...? Science is not magic.
I do not understand...
You went into the cells  and you changed them. How...?!
There was no thought. There was no act. That is not what I am.
I don't know what you are!!!
That is what you must discover. see what I am, my love. With all your power  see me, and know what I am.
No!
Tell me what I am, Rowan.
Aaron was in the dream. A dream tilled with spirits. you killed him, didn't you...?
It was an accident. Gifford, too.
The portraits, Lasher. Why are the witches always before a door...? Tell me, Lasher. Now!
They want to come back. We have a pact  of mutual desire and consent. The Mayfairs ar. a beautiful tapestry. I have weaved you all together  from the start. I brought Petyr Van Abel to Suzanne. He had genius in him. Scientific, precise. It was a perfect start. And on it has gone  father to mother... sister to brother... father to daughter...
Oh god...
Ju1ien was your father Your greatgrandfather  your grandfather  and your father. All one in the same... That is why he fought carlotta for your life.
Rowan and I will be together now. My time has come. Your time is gone.
No! Don't! Lasher!!!
Parents say he  uh  fell 
Anybody got a BP yet...?
 and he seemed okay. Just banged his 
FAST.
uh  then he  be just 
He just went out like & light
Massive subdural hamatoma. We have to evacuat it  right now.
I'll tell OR we're bringing 
He's herniating! Forget OR. He's dead batore he's oft the elevator Get me a trephine tray  Anesthesia  stat! We need him intubated and blow down!
Mum... Oh Mum, God will surely strike us 
Wind  I love you with that which is endless within me. Bring me your eyes  your touch  your voice...
Go back, MICHAEL... Go Back
The door, Michael. find the key...
Help us. Do what you can.
Michael... Do what you can.
Michael... Help us... The door!
Lasher  bring us through!
Now, lasher  it is our time.
E11ie  Diedre died at five o'clock this morning. Obviously, there are 1egal matters. Your discretion will be 
Hello...? Who is this...?
Who is this...?
Rowan Mayfair. Who's calling...?
I wish to speak to Ellie Mayfair.
I beg your par
When did she die...?
Who is this...?
This is your aunt. Carlotta Mayfair. In New Orleans.
I don't have any aunts  and I've never heard of a 'Carlotta'  or, for that matter  a 'Diedre'! Just who 
Diedre Mayfair was your mother.
My...mother...?
Yes. Listen carefully, Rowan. Have your attorney contact me at once. There are matters of immediate 
But my mother... Ellie said she died 
I under5tand. All the same
Ellie said she died when I was BORN! She's been alive...? ALL THIS TIME...? Why have I been lied to when 
I had you sent away.
Who the hel1 
It was quite warranted by the  situation. I realize this is a shock, but really, Rowan  you never even knew her. It's not as if you've suffered some great 
What's the matter with you...?! What kind of person are you...?!
A very tired one. I've been up all night  and I would .like to rest before the funeral. Have your lawyer 
When is the funeral...? I am coming to my mother's funeral!!
Out of the question Rowan, coming here will not change the 
I'm coming down there!! And it you put my mother in the ground betore I arrive, you'll wish you'd never seen my face! IS THAT UNDERSTOOD...?!
You came. I'm your Aunt Carlotta, my dear.
I want to see my mother. Where is she...?
In the coffin, my dear. where else...?
She was alive all these years... You NEVER let me know her. Who gave you that right...?!
A Mayfair it ever I saw one.
I might as well be Rowan Smith  or Jones! you cut me off from every 
I'm tired. I need to rest.
There are things I have to know!
I don't want the 
Other properties as well  here and in Europe. And vest holdings  in sugar, oil, gold, electronics. Liquid funds over eighty million. tmpcssible to put a figure on it all. All yours now.
Eighty million doll  ?
And this  if you decide to take the rest.
What is it...?
The lamplight. That's all.
You can see well in the dark, Rowan.
Better than most, I suppose.
Put your hatred for me aside, so you can clearly see what is ahead
You kept her in this filth in restraints...?.
She didn't feel them
You're a monster.
Antha...your grandmother...her life ended there, on the stones. Head split open like a melon.
Why are you doing this...? Handing out these horrors! Why...?!!
You have the Mayfair eyes. Tell me, Rowan  what have those eyes seen that the mind can't fathom...?
He's shown himself to you... on the deck. In the storm.
'He'...?
Lasher touched you and you loved it.
It wes a dream...!
Just like your mother  and all the others that felt him  and used his power  and went to hell with a smile!
Stop it!
Witches. Rowan. that is what we are.
ENOUGH!!!
And that is why I pushed your grandmother onto the stones  even as she had him inside her...
You're mad! Your mind is sick!
...and why I put thirty years between you and the beautiful monster. To kill the legacy! you are the sum of his desires 
You  are  a  murderer.
But I had to use my hands. None before you could kill with their mind. Graham, my dear. Your uncle...?
Did you like it...? Looking down at Graham and knowing what you could do...?
I'm NOT like you! I'm NOT! You're cruel 
Down here. darling, we figure: If you're taking a trip to God knows where  might as well have one hell of a goingaway party.
In certain cases, hell is the operative word.
Giff  shuttup. you're mother was a sweet child, Rowan... A lost little girl in a world too full at things
You babbling that nonsense  now...? This is a wedding.
I'm not saying I believe it...but I heard it 'nough times to know somebody did. They made a deal with the devil. Y'know  "make us rich"  worship the number thirteen  the whole bit. And some stuff about 'bringing them all back through a door...'
Gifford Mayfair  I'll cook your tongue on a spit! witches!
Hell  Julien believed it... Carlotta too... and god knows, more than a few of us called her a witch!
Rowan  I'm Beatrice Maytair. Your cousin. Deedee...you'r mother and I  we  we grew up together.
I want to see my mother.
I hope Ryan explained that if you stay in this town, you're shackled with pushy relations for the rest of your life.
He made that quite clear, yes.
Gifford  that box glued to your hands...?
Aren't they gauche...? Those steel things are so  common.
Nothing worse than a common tool.
You two sees like a perfect fit. Only two mounths...?
Mmhmm. Seems & lot longer.
In the bayou, they have a saying... 'You choose the music for the dance  but fortune picks your partner.' Darling, I'd say you're on a roll.
Always give the crovd a taste, darling. Now  Ryan said I'm supposed to make sure 
I don't want it.
'The heir to the fortune must wear the Mayfair pendant an her wedding day.' We should all have to suffer such burdens.
Then you wear it.
C'mon now  give a little nod to Mayfair tradition.
I'm sure he's alright, Bea. They'll find him somewhere.
It's over a month. The police say it happens all the time.
Jesus I've got  to get to the ho
Rowan's already called the hotel, Michael. At the cemetery by now, I would guess.
How do you know about Rowan ...? I didn't  Cemetery...?
With her family. Rowan's mother died yesterday.
Rowan's mother died at childbirth. And she doesn't have. any family.
I ask only that you stay here, long enough to be  educated. A few hours.
You sound certifiable. Yon know that.
I  r saw him as a child. Lots of times... But no one else did.
Come. There is a lot to read
A what...?
A spirit. Perhaps evil... ...and he has come to you with Diedre gone  you've... inherited him.
No scaredycats in the Talamasca, huh...?
There is a difference between sensing danger  and being afraid. what defines you in the landscape, Michael...? what anchors your life...? Your work...? Your creativity...?
Rowan.
Then focus on how you feel about her. Because your feelings define you. Take off your gloves, Michael.
Don't tell Rowan about this.
Michael, Rowan should 
NO! she's pregnant, Aaron. she's got that to deal with  and the clinic.. she is not to hear about this. don't you think I know she spends half her lite worrying about me... Listening to my heart, aren't you...? The Timex still ticking...?
What have the witches always asked of you...?
"Go back, Michael. Do what you can..."
Yes  and you have. Do you see...? He was passing over into death  but the witches sent him back  to the one person they knew had the power to save him... and they gave him the power to show you what no one else could...
on't know what else to do. Maybe I just don't belong in her life. well  I'm already out of her life.
Nothing was ever more false.
Then tell me. Is it Lasher....
I'll probably be back in a week...but I can't spend Christmas in that house. you'll check on her  every day...?
Every day twice.
Aaron  lieten to me... It's been Lasher  from the start!
What are you talk
He chose ME for ROWAN  when I was a child!
Rowan...
You have to warn her  this second! I'm catching the next flight back!
Many times over the past thirty years. Why he shows himself to me, I don't know but Lasher's not some mindless wraith.
Then what is he...?
A spacial entity. An organized energy. something that precedes our definition of existence.
Going away doesn't mean you leave Lasher behind. He was on Rowan's deck  and the plane... geography seems irrelevant now.
Michael  you loved that house as a child. You could work again! You could make it ours. We'll sweep out the horror. And Lasher with it!
Thank you for this honor, my dear.
You've been shadowing the family for thirty years. It's only fitting you give one af us away.
I've grown very fond of you you and Michael both.
I have seen him again. Last night.
But you've not told Michael.
Lasher will act, Rowan. Whatever it is he wants  he's waited three hundred years to have it. facing him alone... I don't like 
Lasher is my legacy  not Michael's. Aaron, I've seen the pain in Michael. I can't bear to see anymore. He's not to know. Swear to me.
Are you alright...? You look pale.
I wish everyone would stop commenting on my health. I'm the doctor.
There are two.
Two what...?
Two heartbeats.
With his hands!
But why would they do that...?
You've always said you felt goodness in them  that the witches brought you and Rowan together. Isn't that right...? They're reaching out to you, Rowan!
But it doesn't make sense. They  they used Lasher... they conspired with him.
Who can say the hope of redemption dies with our last breath...? They must see what the legacy has wrought  Diedre, withered inside herself Carlotta, killing and stunting her own flesh and blood... surely they sense the child you carry  and the life it might lead in Lashers grasp... Maybe, in death, they feel remorse for the evil they embraced in life...?!
:What, you're doing Darcy? Since when?
:No, I said, I hate what I'm doing to Darcy. Oh, boy, men are stupider, it's true.
:Would you stop it!
:Well, they are.
:What do you mean "They" are? Are you officially a woman now?
:Oh, I wish. A woman wouldn't have screwed over the woman she loved. No, they don't think that way.
Christ, that's twice in...When did they move in?
I think three...
Three weeks.
What's their name?
Feur, I think. Psych department. Figures. They're all psychotic.
She's awake.
We'll be quiet. Quick and quiet.
When's she out of here?
Norman Spencer.
Alright. I can't take the rejection. I'm going to class.
Don't.
Claire, I have to show up for the
It's Saturday.
It's today?
Yep.
Claire?
Three o'clock.
Whatcha reading?
Genetic repair mechanisms in eukaryotic organisms.
How is it?
Excellent. Couple of Swedish sailor cells just gang divided a virginal cheerleader cell.
Nice. Almost done.
If you have to work...
No, no. I'm just about... There.
How are you?
Fine.
It's okay if you're not.
I am, really.
It's just she's been the focus for a while.
Not the focus.
You know what I mean.
To tell you the truth...I'm excited.
You are...
To get my life back. To have some time for myself. Some time for us.
You did a great job. She's a good kid.
We did.
It's just us now.
I know.
Tired?
Nope.
Wanna fool around?
Yup.
Did you...
Shhh.
And we moved out here for the quiet.
Mmm.
Maybe we should just...
Tomorrow.
I'm finished at three. No. Squash with Stan.
After that.
I'll be there.
Of what?
Of him I think.
Did she say that?
More or less.
Honey, they're young. They're probably newlyweds.
I'm telling you. There was something in her voice...
Remember how we were?
Not like this. We were never like this. I want to go over there. After dinner, we can
Why?
To make sure she's all right.
Claire, honey, we are not going to march next door and accuse our new neighbor of
That's not what I'm sug
...when tonight they'll probably be keeping us awake.
But what if something happens?
Claire...
I'd never be able to live with mysel
Nothing's going to happen. Besides, I have to work tonight. The conference is in less than two weeks. I've got to stay focused on that for just a little longer. This is...
I know.
It's what I've been working for.
I just wish you could have heard her.
Look, I'll call Harvey Tomes in the Psych department, see what I can find out.
Promise?
Norman, you have to look at this!
Mmnph.
Hurry...
Nothing. There was...I thought I saw something.
Is it gone?
Hi.
I'm stuck here for another couple of hours.
Oh.
Unless you need me to come home...
No, no. It's fine.
Claire?
Huh? Absolutely. Take your time.
What are you doing here?
There were some noises. I didn't want to disturb you.
What do you mean? Some noises where?
In the house. I was scared.
Did you call the police?
No. Can you drive me home? I'll bring you back in the morning.
Of course.
It was there. This angry music all by itself. And I heard whispering.
What kind of whispering?
I don't know. Just...whispering.
I've got the conference next week. I want you to feel safe.
I do, I do. I'm sure I'm just...how was your day?
Think I may have cracked it.
Really?
I think so. Maybe.
You are so brilliant.
Yep.
Madame Curie, Jonas Salk, Norman Spencer...
You know what that does to me.
Ohmigod. You'll never believe...I saw Schumway...
You're kidding.
He's here giving some arcane spiel for the physics department, so Bob Shine introduces us...
Wow.
And he says...you'll fucking love this, he says, "Doctor Spencer, I am a great admirer of your work..."
Well, that's nice.
"...especially Spencer's Theorem..."
Oh, no...
"...of Perpetual Distances." Everybody's checking their shoelaces. Pins drop. "I'm afraid you've mistaken me," I say...
That's...
"...for my father."
I'm so sorry.
Didn't know he was dead, every stinking paper on the globe.
That's just mean. Oh. Jody wanted to know if I could get her some.
Did you tell her?
What? No. No.
You didn't?
Norman, you are so funny about that. No, I didn't.
Sorry. You understand.
Did you call about the Feurs?
Oh, right. Yes. Harvey says the guy's a sweetheart. Wouldn't hurt a fly.
Huh.
Get down! He'll see.
What's going on, Claire?
Shhhh.
He killed her.
What?
He did. She's in the picture. I went over to look and she's gone. The table was set for one.
And that means he murdered his wife? This is getting ridic
No, no, no, no. The soil on the shovel, his shovel...that's clay. It's not from here, believe me, I... All right, look at this.
Our house.
No. Look! In the window.
It's a flare.
A flare?
From the sun. It's a reflection on the glass.
It's her! I'm telling you. She whispered and turned on the music. She's trying to contact me!
It's a ghost.
Where is she then?
She could be out. She could be sick in bed for all we know.
Okay. Okay. I'll bet there's...Look at this.
See?
What am I looking at?
I didn't do that.
Who did? Mrs. Feur?
Maybe. Point is...not me.
Right. And why is she here? If he killed her, why doesn't she haunt him?
She was lonely, I talked to her. Norman, I know how it looks, but
Claire, listen to me. I know you're under some strain. But there's no such thing as ghosts. They don't exist. Our neighbor did not kill his wife, and I...wait, why aren't you dressed?
Dressed?
Dinner. With Stan and his new girl.
When?
What do you mean? Claire, we talked about it. You didn't want Japanese, I said, Our first date since...
Oh.
...since Caitlin. You don't remember this?
Tonight?
Yes, tonight. We're going to be
When you do this, I swear...
...Don't get all...
...like it never even happened...
Okay, okay, I'm sure that I just...
What are you doing?
Restaurant. Let them know we're running late.
Five minutes?
You're not at the center.
I know I'm not at the center of the bridge.
We're going to be fine.
There we go.
Well, that's a relief.
I don't need a shrink.
Harvey says he's amazing.
Norman...
What can it hurt to talk to someone?
Claire, she's been a huge part of your life for seventeen years. If you weren't thrown off balance by this, then something would be wrong.
I never said I wasn't upset. Of course I'm upset. I miss her terribly. But I know what I saw and what I heard...and it wasn't some "symptom" of something...
I never said...
...and I don't think I'm some lonely, middleaged woman cracking up.
Are you lonely?
No! And I don't need a psychiatrist!
What are you doing out here?
He killed her. I'm not crazy. He killed her and
This is the Feur thing?
Yes. And he's going to get away with it.
How do you know this?
We had a seance.
Who did?
Jody and I. And she was there, Norman, she was. It scared Jody so bad she had to leave.
How did you
Jody brought a Ouija board and we summoned her.
What?
Maybe you resent how busy I've been.
What are you...? No.
You know what I've got at stake with this paper. You know that. I can't help but think that you're doing this now to hurt me, or to sabotage me somehow.
Sabotage?
Ever since the accident I've been worried that you'd been unhappy, or...
The accident...?
But then you've been so much better...
Norman, this isn't about you. This is something that's happening to me. It's not to get even...and it's not some warped bid for attention. Some strange things are happening in our house, whether you believe in them or not...
Sweetheart
No! Not sweetheart, no. I believe in what's happening. I don't want to, but I do. I guess I was foolish enough to think that would be enough for you.
Keep your voice down.
I will NOT.
Maybe you're right. Maybe I'm losing my mind...
Claire, please...
I'm sorry...
Then where is she?
...I'm pulling up, Yuri. I'll see you for dinner. Sure you won't stay?
No, it's fine. I'm fine.
Really big bed.
Do I have everything?
Yep.
Call ya later.
What?
Are you glad? I'm glad.
You know I am.
Good. You sat in front...I saw you there...
You were lost in the music...eyes closed...your chest heaving...
I felt you...looking through me...
We walked all night...
You told me that I was...
You don't remember?
When she said it, there was something familiar...but no.
You dropped a glass.
I...
A cheap wine glass from the caterers. You started crying. I tried to comfort you...
In the living room...
You shoved me away and ran out to the patio. I took you home.
But why? I can't understand how I could just completely
It was maybe a week after the accident. We were moving. It was a hard time.
But I don't remember.
Sweetheart, it was over a year ago.
What's wrong with me?
I may have seen her on campus.
Not personally.
No. I'm afraid to ask what this is about.
It's her. This is the woman who I've seen.
The...
Yes. The ghost.
I thought it was Mrs. Feur, but it's not...
Stop...
...I'm positive this time...
...Please stop...
It's Madison Fra
STOP IT!
I take it your not mad at me.
Wouldn't go that far.
Ow!
What's the matter?
It's too rough.
Since when?
I don't like this, this...
Why don't you shut up and fuck me, Professor.
I think she's starting to suspect something.
Who?
Your wife...
STOP IT!
"You know..."
What?
I was there.
Claire
I came to work in the garden and I saw you with her...in my house.
Oh God...
I snuck back to my car, trying to convince myself it never happened. And when I woke up in the hospital...somehow it hadn't. Until now.
It was last year. We were having troubles.
So you fucked a student?!
That's not what I'm sayi
DON'T touch me. Just get away from me. Go!
Claire, please don't...
What did you think I would do? Jesus Christ! I gave up my life and my music...
I never asked you to quit!
...Oh BULLSHIT. You had to topple perfect Daddy and that meant perfect wife, perfect family...
THAT'S NOT TRUE! You wanted to quit! And then when you did, you hated me for it... so you gave it all to her.
Who?
To Caitlin!!
Leave her out of this!
And then out of nowhere, some bright young woman found me attractive...
Stop...
...would do anything just to be around me. And I slipped. God help me, I slipped.
I'm not going to listen to this.
I tried to break it off!
You should have tried harder.
Claire...
Get out of my way.
She was damaged and unstable. The more I tried to distance myself, the more desperate she became. Finally, she showed up at the new house...
How did she know where it was?
She did it.
We don't know that for sure.
Of course she did, Norman. What else could it be?
We have to get out of here.
It's alright.
Can't you see, she's trying to kill us.
She's gone.
What?
She can't be here without me.
How can you be sure?
I don't know, but I am. She was there and then she was gone. I felt it.
Claire...
The leaves...
Incredible. We should take a drive before they're gone. Spend the night at some cozy little bed and breakfast.
Look for antiques...
Yep. There's some great places nearby.
Adamant.
What?
Little village down seven. Supposed to be charming.
Huh.
Do you know it?
Don't think so.
Maybe we can stop there for lunch.
What's that for?
Nothing.
I'm cooking you dinner.
You don't have to do that.
I know.
Fine. I'll do the shopping.
She's out there isn't she? She's in the lake.
Okay. Don't...you don't understand what this is.
Don't I, Norman? YOU KEPT THE FUCKING NECKLACE. Of a woman you killed!
I did NOT! I did not kill anyone. Jesus. Claire, listen to me. I walked in and she was lying there dead. I swear to you. On my life! She took pills and she killed herself in our house to destroy me! To destroy us! If I hadn't stopped by here before school, the painters would have
I don't believe you.
IT'S TRUE. That's...you have to believe me! Oh God, I'm telling you the truth! I did what I had to, Claire. She was gone. There was nothing I could do for her. I did...I put her in the lake. I rolled the car in...and I watched it sink. And I've lived with that image ever since. I couldn't just stand there while everything my career, us, everything, just washed away. Don't you see, Claire? She's doing this! This is exactly what she wants you to think!
Mmmuh...
Shhhh.
Mauduh...
What?
MADISON!
How you holding up?
Good. I'm good.
You are?
Why does everyone find that so surprising?
Cause...your...only daughter just went away to school...who you were incredibly close with aaand I'd be tripping...
Okay, I'm a little tender.
Well good. So you're human.
And so far my day has consisted of taking pictures of my roses for the garden club.
Wow. Got here just in time. I brought you this.
What is it?
Kambucha mushroom tea...
Jody
It soothes heartache and promotes psychic wellness. Sela suggested I bring
You're discussing me with your psychic?
She's not a psychic. Just a very enlightened spirit.
Thanks, but I'm fine.
So you'll have some later. Notice anything...different?
Oh my god. You bought it.
Yep.
It's niiice.
Beautiful thing, alimony. Lose a husband, get a car. Think it'll help me pick up dudes?
Absolutely.
Listen, I've gotta run. I just thought I'd stop by and see if you want to take the boat out, say Thursday morning?
You got it.
You think he killed her?
I don't know. When you say it, it sounds crazy. But what else could it all be?
Know what I think?
What?
Seance.
Jody, no...
Telling you...
...no...no...no...
Just bought this beautiful antique Ouija.
Please. That's all I need.
Someone's there.
What?
In the window. Norman's at work.
I don't...
Wow. I'm losing it.
No, you're not. But a presence in your house is not something to be taken lightly.
Sit down here.
Are we hoping the ghost is going to have to pee?
Place your fingers on the planchette.
The planchette?
This.
We wish to commune with the spirit of Mrs. Feur. What's her first name?
I don't know.
Nothing's happening.
Shhh.
Oh...
ME...
Mef? What's Mef?
It's initials. F is Feur. It's her.
I have to go.
Jody, wait.
Are you okay?
I think so
I'm sorry for leaving, but I mean, Jesus, Claire...
It's alright.
I mess around with this stuff, but I never thought anything would happen.
Does Norman know?
Jody, she's alive.
What?
Mrs. Feur. She's alive. I met her. She's really sweet.
Then what was it?
Nothing. It wasn't anything. I've been on edge lately. Maybe since the accident. And I'd prefer, I really would, to just
Something was there. You saw it.
Did I?
Yes. Now I talked to Sela and there's a guy, this Pakistani guy down in Hartford...
Hartford?
And he's the real thing. Specializes in cases like this, like yours.
No. Jody, listen to me. You have to listen to me. This is not something that I can do right now. Whatever it was, it's gone. I need it to be gone now.
But Claire
Please.
Okay. Okay.
I've got to find a bathroom. I'll call you.
Oh God...you knew.
I was down in Adamant...
Adamant?
Artsy little village down seven. There's a guy there who sells my work. I had just dropped off some paintings and as I got in my car...I saw Norman sitting at this little cafe.
I started to walk over...but he wasn't alone. A blond. I only caught a glimpse. She was young. I should have said something right away. But I didn't.
Why?
Partly because I didn't want to hurt you...but partly...partly because I was relieved.
Relieved?
I had just been left by Richard. I was bitter and miserable and for some fucked up reason, it made me feel better that your life wasn't as perfect as it seemed.
By the time I finally got up the nerve to tell you, Stan called from the hospital and it was too late.
Too late? Jody, it was an accident.
Alone? On a two lane road? With a ton of Valium in your system?
I got there first. Stan covered up the pills and I had it out with Norman. He seemed desperate not to lose you. He promised to handle it. And we all let it drop away.
All of us.
I'm a terrible friend.
No.
How could I expect you to tell me something that I wouldn't even tell myself?
What are you going to do?
I don't know.
If she was dangerous before
She could have hurt me if she wanted to.
You don't know that. If it's your belief that gives her form, then you've got to shut her out. Somehow you have to break the connection.
No. She wanted me to know the truth. Now that I do...I think she's at peace.
Jody, she tried to kill him.
I know.
I can't believe this is happening.
We need help. Please let me call the medium.
That could take days. I need to do something now. Don't you see? She wants us dead.
Alight, alright. Stay calm. You opened this door. There's got to be a way that you can close it.
Like what?
I have an idea. But, I mean, I'm just making this up...
What is it?
But he acted like he'd never heard of it.
Did he say that?
Jody he was lying.
What if he was? Do you think he wanted to bring that up again just when you're trying to make a new start?
I guess not.
He's trying to put it behind him, Claire. You should too.
You've got a beautiful life. And even with this, it's always been clear that he loves you. I've come to think that's all that really matters.
I don't know...
Trust me, Claire. You hear something... change the subject. You find something... get rid of it, throw it in the lake. You know what happened. The rest is only details. And no one's ever glad they got a hold of those. If you want to put this back together...just let it go.
Wow.
This is...
We know each other.
He looked like one of the Monkees.
Anyway, Claire slept with him...
I didn't sleep with him.
...just so she could cut them off.
He was so pissed.
I came in from my room...
We were suite mates.
And there's this brilliant conductor in purple briefs with no bangs cursing his ass off in Finnish.
Oh God...
You should have heard her play.
Stop.
We both auditioned for the Philharmonic. One cello position open.
Do we have to?
And I kicked ass. My best stuff. Then I stood in the hallway and listened to her audition...and I cried.
She's making this up.
I'm not. Couldn't pick up my cello for weeks.
She got it. Turned it down.
I met a dashing young grad student after a recital one night...
Mrs. Frank?
Yeah.
I'd like to talk to you about Madison.
You know where she is?
No, I don't.
Please leave me alone.
What's your name?
Claire.
She never mentioned you.
Just plain old coffee. None of that mocha nonsense.
It's fine.
You look a little old for a student.
I'm not. We...we met at a party.
Sounds about right. Never understood how a girl that wild got all A's. Sure didn't get it from me. They wanted to put her in a special school for the gifted when she was young. Maddie wouldn't hear about it.
She never mentioned her father.
Well she wouldn't. He left when she was twelve. Never spoke about him after that.
Why are you here?
I don't know.
It's like that. Doesn't seem real. No note. Nothing. Cops say she'll be back. I just wanna know what happened.
Full scholarships. Princeton too. She wanted to stay close.
You must have been very proud.
They're calling me in to work.
I should be going anyway.
Y'hear anything you'll let me know?
Of course.
What was her major?
Biology. She wanted to be a doctor.
Who are you?
It's Mrs...It's Claire...Spencer. From next door. Is everything
You're the flower lady.
Um...yes.
I've seen you. From the window.
Is everything alright?
Hello?
I'm not...
He's so...it's too much...and I can't...I can't breath...
Who? Your husband?
And I'm afraid. Oh god, I'm so afraid of...
What? What are you afraid of?
I can't, no, no, I can't...
Tell me. Please.
That I'll just...that one day I'll just...disappear.
Tell me. I can help you.
How? How can you help me? With your flowers and your perfect life...
That's not...It's not like that.
I've never even met you.
I know. And I'm sorry. I've been consumed with...my daughter left...for school.
This fence...it's so...
I'm sorry. It's for the flowers. Why don't you...
Oh God. He's back. I'm sorry. Please forget that I...I don't know what I'm saying. Please...
Wait! Don't go...
I wanted to apologize.
You do?
For scaring you like I did. When I thought about what that must have seemed like that day...
And then you weren't there.
Right. I'm sorry.
Would you like some iced tea?
Very much.
Your house is so beautiful.
Thank you.
And these roses. They're much prettier up close.
No.
Of what? What were you so afraid of?
You're going to think I'm crazy or something.
Love.
What?
Have you ever felt so completely consumed by a feeling for someone that you couldn't breathe? That the time together is so passionate and consuming that you felt physical pain when they would leave?
Um...sure.
I couldn't catch my breath. That's not a metaphor, that's...And I panicked. I never dreamed anyone would hear me back there... I tried to leave him. Went to my mother's in Boston. He brought my things up and pleaded with me to come home.
You must think I'm pathetic.
No. No, I don't.
I'm sorry that I frightened you like that. But I was so touched by your concern. I've been lonely here. Perhaps we could be friends.
Yes?
Um...
I'm running late here. I just came back for my briefcase.
Right. Well, I wanted to stop by to welcome you to the uh, to the neighborhood. I'm Claire Spencer. From next door.
This really isn't a good time.
Well maybe your wife...
She isn't here.
When...when will she be back?
I don't know.
Ohkay...
I have to go.
Who?
Give me that shit. Your wife.
I didn't kill my wife.
Of course. You must be so proud.
I am.
Everyone's very anxious to shake hands with our newest academic celebrity.
How're you holding up?
Just fine. It's a lovely party.
Norman was telling me the dream house is finally finished.
Almost.
Wonderful. It's good to see you two doing so well.
I'm sorry?
I know how hard it can be sometimes.
Uhhuh. What can be?
Well, I don't think I've seen you since the reception at Dean Ackerman's last year.
For the Dupont Chair. I swear. I'm becoming the nosy old lady I used to run from at Amherst.
No. I'm just not sure what you mean.
There was just...some tension. You were upset. I remember being concerned.
At the party.
Toward the end. You remember?
Ohhh yes. No, no. Just a little, you know...We're fine.
Well, I'm glad. Pardon my intrusiveness, but we do have to stick together you know.
Who's that?
The wives.
Who's idea was it?
Mine. His. We both...thought...
I didn't want to come.
Then why did you?
Because he was worried about me.
Your husband?
Yes. I'm sure he's hoping you'll pack me full of prozac so he can live out his life in peace.
Do you really think so?
No.
Why is he worried?
Because, I don't know, because sometimes...sometimes I forget things...and ever since Caitlin left, ever since my daughter left for school, there've been...I fainted and... Why is this so hard?
Fireball?
You're joking.
These are good.
Mmhmm.
She finished my solitaire game and turned on the radio...she likes rock and roll. Angry rock and roll.
How do you know it's a she?
I saw her in the water. Beside me. She was filling the bathtub.
What does she look like?
Pretty. She's a blond.
Do you have any idea who she is?
Um...I'd rather not say...just yet.
Fine.
What do you think I should do?
What?
Try to communicate with her somehow.
You think that'll help?
Can't hurt. And I think it's important you find out what she wants.
Are you humoring me?
Nope.
How?
I don't know. My aunt used to use my uncle's old pajamas and a candle.
What's happening to me?
Well, that's what we're here for.
Whether you imagined it or not, you actually saw and heard things that frightened you...that gave you reason for concern.
Yes, but...
Your friend saw them.
Isn't there something called group hysteria?
You think you influenced her?
Maybe. I don't know. I just know that when all this was happening, I felt, some part of me felt...alive. Like somebody needed me. And the more I reached out to, it, the fuller it became.
You're saying you willed these events to happen?
I don't know, I'm very confused right now.
She said, "You know." That I know.
Do you?
No.
What do you think? Guess.
I felt...pain. That she'd been hurt by someone. This is great. I'm trying to intuit the emotions of a figment of my
Have you been hurt?
Me? No. Well, in the accident I was injured, but...
You were in an accident?
Last year. I drove my car up a tree. Nothing serious, this... ...a minor concussion. But the car looked bad. It could have been bad. I think it scared the hell out of Norman.
What?
That he doesn't...see me, or, you know, that I'm...that's something's wrong...with me.
That can't feel good.
No, it doesn't...Okay, look, I see what you're doing here, and that's, I'm sorry, but that's not it. My marriage is fine. I've had some kind of "emptynest" episode where I saw some things that weren't there. Let's deal with that. I'm willing to deal with that. I just don't want to go conjuring problems where none exist.
Do you have a scarf?
Hey.
Yes?
It's only two hours away.
I know that.
I'll come back all the time.
Of course you will.
I'm just saying, you're going to be fine.
That was very good.
Mom, I'm sorry. I wanted to tell you. But it never felt right.
Why?
Besides, Dad would have freaked.
No, he wouldn't.
I think playing in a band called "Bitch" might put a dent in the whole "perfect family" thing.
That's not true.
Yes it is. Can we please not do that? Please? Cause it is.
He loves you very much. He just
I know he does.
Are you mad at me?
Listen to me. The one thing in life that I definitely don't regret...is the choice. I made to be your mother.
I miss you.
So much.
It got so bad your father almost had to put me away.
What do you mean?
I started seeing things.
A ghost?
Did you?
No. But once I heard...
What?
Someone crying. A girl. I thought I was crazy.
Then we both are.
Stop saying things so loud!
Oh! The virgin has spoken! SARAH Stop it!
Save it for the powder room babe, this man is in pain
You guys are being real assholes
You bet. We all can't be such modern people
Come on Mark MARK Ah hell, why not. I'll get the maid to write the essays
YES!
Looks a little spooky boys, you think we should do this?
Never fear, Tony is here. Ladies first.
Darling? I hear you were having drinks with the butler the other night. Now you know that sort of thing leads to anarchy.
Mom.
One has to keep the distance between `them' and `us'
They're all human beings
Servants. Oh isn't it terrible darling, two more people have disappeared
Oh really? We're they `us'es' or `them's'?
Don't be facetious darling. Now drink your milk, you're late for college
Mom, when are you going to let me have some coffee in the morning?
When  you're a big boy. I mean you know it's bad for you
But mom, I NEED THE CAFFINE  BADLY
I'll think about it. Now run along darling.
Sir Wilfred, this is Sarah Brighton. This is Sir Wilfred.
Hi there Sarah
No thank you sir we're fine.
So Mark, what's so urgent?
Well, it's a long story.SIR WILFRED Oh good share. I love them
Well?
Well divide 18 into three
Six six and six
If you sold your soul to the devil, you'd never age either
Sell my soul?
Any student of Black Magic can do it. .most of these books will tell you how! SARAH So what happens when you've sold out?
You get yourself a regular job, as Satan's disciple.
Doing what? SIR WILFRED Tipping the scales. Ruining that delicate balance between good and evil. I think that our Mr. Lincoln has found a very effective way of doing it. There's a voodoo belief that by making a wax effigy of an evil being, containing a belonging of his he possessed in earthly form, and feeding him the soul of a believing victim, you can bring him back to life!
Can this be stopped?
Maybe before the event, never after.
I can't believe she went out with that monster last night
Forget her Mark, she's a bitch
Guys, if I'm going to play the hero at least give me a little room.
Safety in numbers man.
Right.
Anyone else not coming?
Right behind you.
This time I really don't see anyone man.
Must be what we came for. The four stand slowly and enter through the doors, which close behind them. They begin walking around the WAXWORKS, which appear gruesome. The first they spy is of a high school student with a letter jacket on the verge of being hacked with an axe by and angry woodsman. They give each other looks of disgust and continue on. The next is of a Frankensteinesque creature carrying a woman in its arms. The four are now roaming around the WAXWORKS individually, with TONY encountering what appears to be a tribal INDIAN pointing a knife towards a victim. MARK walks past a circus cart with some sort of werebeast inside, and then continues on to a staircase exhibit with a dead woman at the base of it. On the staircase is a zombiefied creature. We see CHINA walking on the other side of a bandage wrapped man pumping gasoline into a woman's mouth. Finally, we see TONY walking up to a cottage room display.
This. is killer.
Haven't we been doing our homework.
I've always wondered why someone would believe in something like that.
Getting scared? Don't worry, they've probably just gone home.
What? Tony and China, together?
Wooo. Jealously rearing its ugly head.
I'm not kidding. I want to get out of here  now, ok.
Then why do you still like her?
Like her? I don't know if I ever liked her. It's just you want what you can't get.
I know what you mean.
No Mark. MARK Why not?
I don't know. I really like you and I think you're very attractive.
Come on.
No I'm serious. It's. it's just I don't know I. I'm looking for something else.
No, no James, it's not like that. Tony and China, they're just friends.
That's not what you said last night.
Ok, so maybe I was a little over emotional.
A little?
You aren't sick! We've got to get back. What are you doing!
Listen Sarah, I think I know what's going on ok. I went to the waxwork today.I met this man.
Oh that explains everything.
You don't understand. I recognized his face now come on.
Big deal!
If my mother caught me up here she'd kill me.
Who's is all this?
Well?
Well. .this, is Mr. Lincoln. And that's the man I saw at the waxwork.
Well, it all started when a friend and I
China
Sarah listen to me.
Go away.
Velcome to ve Vaxverk.
Uh, wrong picture Tony.
I hope you enjoyed your visit.
Uh yes, thank you. It was quite enjoyable.
Two of your friends left earlier MARK Uh huh.
They seemed, closing by much
Tony and China?
Vell. Goodnight.
Hello?
Hello, Mrs. Webster. Is China there?
No Jonathan.
No?
She went to a waxwork party
A party at a waxwork huh?
Can I give her a message?
You don't happen to have the address do ya?
Your books Master Loftmore
Thank you Jenkins
And your coff  excuse me, caffeine sir
Thank you
And uh, your nicotine sir
Thank you
Allow me sir
Will you be wanting your wheels today sir?
Uh, not today Jenkins, I need the fresh air
Have a nice day sir
We're all here, and ready sir!
Jenkins!
Good evening sir.
Jenkins. Can I get you some help?
Too late for that sir. Give my love to the misses. Get those bastards!
Weird and tiny huh?
Hi
Yes, it's always been one of my favorites too.
Hmm.
Would you like a closer look?
It's all rather morbid though isn't it?
Yes, I guess you're right
Are you sure you wouldn't like a closer look?
Well that's for me to know  but I did enjoy rubbing oil all over that big.
Just give it a break China ok? CHINA Jeez. Can't even take a joke
Anybody want another drink?
It's eleven fortyfive let's go
We need to talk. CHINA Yeah about what?
About what? About us.
Us is over. You had your chance you blew it.
Right. CHINA I need a taking care of, not `hey how bout a pizza after class babe'. I'm looking for something just a little more in a man. A little `je nes se qua'.
A little what? CHINA See. You don't even speak French.
I'm sorry I'm not that good at languages ok?
Yeah well why should I suffer for that?
Suffer? We're living in America.
Well if you're in such a rush darling, why don't you lead the way?
Ok toots, I will.
Oh Mark. It's ok. It's ok.
China. What happened? CHINA Shhh. It's ok. I missed you so much.
I saw the greatest movie with mark last night
With Mark?
He still likes you
Oh I don't give a shit the guy's a slob. He doesn't even know how to spell `lady' let alone treat me like one. You know the last time we went out he actually made me pay for a drink?
He did?
Yes, I'm sure. What I need is an older man, something with class, a little style. Someone who knows how to treat a lady.
Businessman?
Businessman!
Doctor? Lawyer? CHINA Lawyer, Doctor, I don't care.
Yeah, yeah, OK
Yeah
So why are you dating Jonathan?
But?
But he still has something Mark hasn't.
What's that?
A body. I mean we're talking major body
With all due respect, Mr. Gekko, what's to prevent you from doing the same thing?
Cause I have a way around all this, a way we can all make money and make this airline profitable again. What do you say we cut to the chase. I'm asking for a modest twenty percent acrosstheboard wage cut.
Are you prepared to put that in writing?
I'll have a letter of agreement drawn up within two days.
Cards are on the table. What do you think?
If you mean what you say, I think we're in the ball park. I'll take it to my people.
We know what you're up to, Gekko, and let me tell you this from here, you suck eggs, mister, over my dead body you ain't gonna break up Bluestar.
You guys must know something nobody else knows. If those are my plans, it's the first I've heard of it.
Listen, you clowns, there's somebody else out there trying to buy your airline, if you want to be Pacmanned and gobbled by Atilla the Hun be my guest!
We'll take our chances. Nice to see you again, Mr. Gekko.
Rarest pistol in the world, Larry, a .45 Luger. Only six were ever manufactured.
Congratulations but rarer still is your interest in Anacott Steel.
The same interest as yours Larry. Money. I thought it'd be a good investment for my kid...
No. This time I'm in for the long term. This is not a liquidation, Gordon. I'm going to turn it around. You're getting a free ride on my tail, mate, and with the dollars you're costing me to buy back the stock, I could modernize the plant. I'm not the only one who pays here Gordon. We're talking about lives and jobs; three and four generations of steel workers...
You must be wearing a mask you're laughing so hard behind it Larry. Let's cut the "sir" crap. Correct me if I'm wrong, but when you took CNX Electronics, you laid off 8,000 workers, Jessmon Fruit about 6,000, that airline...
I could break you, mate, in two pieces over my knees, you know it, I know it, I could buy you six times ever, I could dump the stock just to burn your ass but I happen to want the company and I want your block of shares. I'm announcing a tender offer at 65 tomorrow, and I'm expecting your commitment.
Considering you brought my mother into it, $71.50.
Done. You'll hear from my lawyers. 8 a.m. Good night.
Yeah, Billy, who's your buyer?... No, not interested. Ollie, start calling a the institutions, start with Marx at Janson Mutual, then Reardon. Get me that California retirement money, baby! And we're on our way!
You got it, G.G.
He respond to the offer? What? What the hell's Cromwell doing giving lecture tours when his company's losing 60 million a quarter? I guess he's giving lectures on how to lose money...if this guy opened a funeral parlor, no one would die, this turkey's totally brain dead...Well Christmas is over and business is business. Keep buying. Dilute the sonofabitch. Ollie I want every orifice in his body flowing red.
He's flowing, Gordo. Piece of cake.
... just got 250,000 shares at 18 1/4 from Janson, think I'll pull twice that at 18 1/2 outta the California pensions. We got close to half a million shares in the bag.
Hey, the Terminator! Blow 'em away Ollie.
And, I'm pretty sure we got the Beezer Brothers out of Tulsa coming in with us and I'm working on the Silverberg boys in Canada.
Rip their throats out and put them in your garbage compactor. Interesting. You got a card?
What do you say we go get a suite at the Carlyle? Caviar? Champagne? Celebrate, just like the old times Sunshine.
Those days are over, Gordon. They were over a long time ago.
Can't blame me for trying. You look as beautiful as that painting I just bought.
So what's the problem Sunshine? You look like Black Thursday. Bad case of puppy love?
It's not puppy love, Gordon. Anyway, Buddy and I are splitting up.
Sorry to hear that. I thought the kid had staying power.
It's over you, Gordon.
You told him about us?
No, are you crazy? And I don't want him ever to know. Do you understand?...
I want to ask you a big favor, Gordon. Please drop the Bluestar deal.
Now tell me, why would I want to do that?
Because I don't want to see him hurt.
Don't worry Sunshine. Bud and I had a little talk. We came to an understanding. I want you to go back to him. Soothe him. Help keep his head straight. Okay?
I can't...and I won't.
Come on, we both like Buddy. But this bleeding heart puppy love act is over the top... It doesn't fit.
Maybe it does. Don't patronize me Gordon.
You and I are the same, Darien. We're smart enough not to buy into the oldest myth running: love... A fiction created by people who got nothing to keep them from jumping out of windows.
You're really twisted, Gordon. You're incapable of giving to anybody because deep down inside you there's a poverty that every last dollar in the world won't fill.
Ooh ooh, tough talk from a scared little girl all wrapped in a pretty grownup package. Does this mean you're ready to cut the umbilical cord and step out into the world on your own? Because, Darien, if you're through with me, you're through with everything I'm a part of.
I thought this was an informal meeting. What's he doing here?
Harold, you don't mind strolling around the block a couple hundred times, do you?
Frankly, Carl, I can't see giving much more. If you have any suggestions I'll be glad to listen.
There came into Egypt a Pharoah who did not know.
I beg your pardon. Is that a proverb?
No, it's a prophecy. The rich have been doing it to the poor since the beginning of time. The only difference between the Pyramids and the Empire State Building is that the Egyptians didn't have unions. I know what this guy is about greedhe's in and out for the buck and he don't take prisoners. He don't give a damn about Northstar or us ...
Fine, if you don't want us, stay with the scum in present managementdedicated to running you and Bluestar into the ground.
...that "scum" built this company up from one plane in thirty years, they made something out of nothing, and if that's a scum I'll take one over a rat any day...
You got a look in your eye, Mr. Mannheim... You got something for the small fry...
Jesus, can't make a buck in this market, country's going to hell faster than when that sonofabitch Roosevelt was around... too much cheap money sloshing around the world. The biggest mistake we ever made was letting Nixon get off the gold standard. Putney Drugyou boys might want to have a look at it.
Sleep with me and the secrets of the West are yours.
Now that's a crap company, sure you'll make money on the takeover rumor, but what's being created. Nothing. No substance behind it.
Old values. Buy.
Mr. Mannheim, got a sure thing. Anacott Steel.
No such thing Bud  'cept death and taxes. Not a good company anymore, no fundamentals. What's going on Bud? Do you know something? Remember there're no short cuts son, quick buck artists come and go with every bull market but the steady players make it through the bear markets. You're part of something here, Bud. The money you make for people creates science and research jobs. Don't sell that out.
You're right, Mr. Mannheim, but you gotta get to the big time first, then you can be a pillar and do good things.
Can't get a little bit pregnant, Bud.
It's a winner Mr. Mannheim, trust me  buy.
You're on a roll kiddo. Enjoy it while it lasts  'cause it never does.
...just kickin' ass and taking names, Mr. Mannheim.
How you doing Buddy?
Great Carolyn, doing any better would be a sin...
Morning Buddy, you look happy.
Any better and I'd be guilty.
You were never that innocent sugarpie.
...how do you know? You wish...
Bud! Where you been the last two days?
...Janet get my father on the phone and the two other union reps, urgent...
He had a heart attack, hon, but he's okay, he's at the hospital...
Oh Christ!
Hello again, I been holding these drinks for us for the last three weeks.
Excuse me.
Grand Marnier. A romantic and tragic drink.
Oh yes, I remember you.
Destiny took us apart, but I knew it would bring us back together.
Aha. Poet or philosopher?
Stock broker. As in: never have so few done so little for so much. So what do you see in this?
I'd give anything to have this in my house, even for a week.
...few thousand dollars down the drain if you ask me.
Oh really? Well, I guess you can kiss that career as an art appraiser goodbye, because we paid over four hundred thousand for it at the contemporary picture sale last June.
You could have a great beach house for that.
Sure you could, in Wildwood, New Jersey. If you sold this, you could have a pretty nice penthouse on Fifth. But you wouldn't have much left over for decoration.
Boy, I thought Gordon was a tough businessman, but somebody's really taking him to the cleaners here.
Not really. I'd say that Gordon is one of the most astute collectors around. He has a great eye and he only buys the best. Like this rug for instance, a silk Tabriz, the finest of its kind. The day after he bought it in London, a dealer representing the Saudi Royal Family offered him twice what he paid. It absolutely makes the room. See how this little bit of celadon in the border is picked up in the cushions oh the sofa... although... I don't know if I would have used that tea dipped linen for the upholstery  too dingy. And it's a sacrilege having that PreColumbian pot in the center of the coffee table. Some dope might use it as an ashtray.
I gather you're a decorator.
You got it, a great spender of other people's money.
Well, if you're that good, you could probably do wonders at my place.
Where is it?
Upper West Side.
Oh really. Home of the exposed brick wall and the houseplant.
Oh it's just a rental. I'm moving to the East Side soon. I've got a couple of deals brewing with Gordon. but that's just conversation... what about real things? Like dinner. The two of us. Friday. Cafe. Santo Domingo.
What if I have a previous engagement?
Break it.
I guess this must be destiny alright. My first yuppie apartment and... my first yuppie.
You may call me a yuppie... It's Mister Yuppie to you.
So. See you Friday.
You really do believe in destiny?
Only if I want something bad enough.
Devon? He looks like Seattle Slew. What about the Triple Crown?
He's not a racehorse, Bud, he's a jumper.
How would I know? I once bet a horse. He went out at ten to one and came in at quarter to five.
If I could have anything... this would almost do.
Yeah, almost...
So, how did your conference go with Gordon?
The conference, oh yeah. Fine. We reached an agreement and decided to divide up the world between us.
You have modest wants. I like that in a man.
And what do you want?
...a Turner, a perfect canary diaiaond... a Lear jet... world peace... the best of everything...
Well, why stop at that?
I don't.
You're not trouble by any chance. Are you?
...isn't it perfect!
...too perfect...let's not even eat. Let's just watch it and think about it.
You know, the elevator man couldn't believe I paid $300,000 to have my walls looking like this, he's got them for free in Brooklyn.
I'll bet he's got an opinion on the stock market too. This apartment is already ahead of its time. I call it the "demolished" look. They've already heard about it at House and Garden and they're coming next week to photograph it before it gets... lived in. Is that alright? I'd love to have it in my portfolio.
Sure... But your fee... considering you're way over budget, should be negotiable.
Let's get things straight, Bud. I'm not going to take a cut. I worked hard and you can't decorate a room in New York for less than $100,000. Curtains alone...
I'm kidding, I'm kidding, we're still young, Darien. So what's money anyway when everybody's making it, it's all relative. After all, this is not the house in Connecticut, this is just a crash pad good for a couple of years...before we slip our two lovely kids, Yuppie and Fruppie into the Lycee Francaise.
You got it all charted out don't you, like a stock projection.
That's right  one with high yield, rich assets and no downside...
Do you think you're ready?
It's not me I'm worried about...You know Darien, the only reason we haven't slept together is because we both know we will  and not knowing when was the only surprise left. You owe me, I want you, what else is there...but you, me, the world. ...right here...make love to me...now... Stop me if I'm going too far.
I'll let you know.
Bud, I hate to tell you this but you're a genius! Darien...lightning has struck! The lightbulb has been invented. Edison, Da Vinci, Einstein are watching...
...are you going to trade all night again? You got to go to work in a couple of hours.
You think I'm gonna broker the rest of my life... I'm going to be a giant, Darien, an entrepreneur in the Italian 15th century sense of the word  a mover, shaker.
I love you, baby. Did I tell you that sometime in the last 24 hours?
Get in bed. Y'ever hear of the sixty hour work week? You're turning into a yuppie Frankenstein, you love money so much.
Sure, why not, money's the sex of the 80's. I never had it like you when I was growing up, baby, it wasn't the upper east side.
You're so naive Bud, you don't even know. Your dad took care of you. I might've been rich when I was a kid...but my father lost all his money...in the seventies, in the stock market, at the track. He was a lousy gambler...
...that changes all my plans, I thought you were loaded...
So did I, till I hit 19 and found I had all the royal habits and no throne. Mom got by but I had to go to work just like you. Only the skills I had were shopping and making friends. So...that's why I do what I do, what makes you tick, Buddy?
Fear. The fear of being poor I guess, just like you, Darien... But that's all gonna change sweetheart. I'm catching the express... ... and you're going along for the ride.
I'm sorry. I was afraid something like this could happen.
Talk about being bent over the sink of life and being dry humped. I handed it to him on a silver platter. I told my father and those people...
Buddy, it's not your fault, and it's not your decision.
I'm not gonna let it happen Darien.
Don't cross Gordon. He'll crush you. You've worked hard to get where you are. If Gordon doesn't buy Bluestar someone else will; and who's to say they won't do the same thing.
At least I wouldn't be pulling the trigger.
Are you mad! Why are you doing this! We're so close, the town is going to be ours. Don't throw away your future Bud!
I can stay with the brokerage firm. And you're doing fine. We can survive without Gordon Gekko.
I'm not looking to just survive. I've been doing that all my life.
What the hell's that supposed to mean?
You really mean that? What'd he promise you? To take you public? I guess without Gordon's money and seal of approval, I'm not such a hot investment anymore. You're just the best money can buy, Darien...
You're not exactly pure Bud, you went after Gekko with the same vengeance you went after me. Look in the mirror before...
I'm looking...and I sure don't like what I see.
You may not believe this Bud but I really do care for you. I think we could've made a good team...but that's how it goes...
Get the hell out!
Hi.
Why?
I figure a guy who's made some mistakes should be able to understand a girl who's made some of her own...
How do you do Mr. Gekko. I'm Bud Fox.
So you say. Nice to meet you; hope you're intelligent. Like these, how'd you get these?
So what s on your mind kimosabe? Why am I listening to you? Got to monitor my blood pressure, so whatever you do, don't upset me.
Oh no, no...
Within 45 seconds, a microprocessor computes your systolic and diastolic pressure. Has an LCD readout, and it's cost effective  less than one visit to the doctor.
I just want to let you know Mr. Gekko I read all about you at NYU Business, and I think you're an incredible genius and I've always dreamed of only one thing  to do business with a man like you...
So what firm you with, pal?
Jackson, Steinem...
...going places, good junk bond department, you got the financing on that Syndicam deal.
...Yeah, and we're working on some other interesting stuff.
...A cosmetics company by any chance? What are you, the 12th man on the deal team? The last to know?
Can't tell you that, Mr. Gekko.
So whatta you got for me, sport? Why are you here?
Chart breakout on this one here...uh WhitewoodYoung Industries...low P.E. Explosive earnings. 30% discount from book. Great cash flow. Coupla 5% holders. Strong management.
It's a dog, what else you got, sport, besides connections at the airport?
...rings a bell somewhere. So what?
A comer. 80 mediumbody jets. 300 pilots, flies northeast, Canada, some Florida and Caribbean routes... great slots in major cities...
...don't like airlines, lousy unions...
There was a crash last year. They just got a favorable ruling on a lawsuit. Even the plaintiffs don't know.
How do you know?
I know...the decision'll clear the way for new planes and route contracts. There's only a small float out there, so you should grab it. Good for a five point pop.
My home number's on the back...
Bud Fox, I look at a hundred ideas a day. I choose one.
Hi sport.
Nice to see you again Mr. Gekko.
See this? Can you believe it? Two inch screen...
...I can't even see it...
...for my kid Rudy  3 years old, electronics freak, got a liquid crystal display 'stead of an electronic beam. We're going into a new age pal. So how's business today.
Bluestar was at 21 and an eighth when I left the office. It might spin up to 25 by the bell...
Teldar's shooting up. Buy any for yourself? Bet you were on the phone two minutes after you got out of my office.
No sir, that would've been illegal...
Sure...relax sport, no one's gonna blow a whistle. Here, is this legal?...you wanna put it in my account?
Mr. Gekko  thank you for the chance. You won't regret this, you're with a winner.
...put the rest of it in a money market account for now. I want to see what you know before I invest it...and save the cheap salesman talk, it's obvious.
Excuse me sir.
...come on sport, you gotta try harder, I need some exercise for chrissake...
Mr. Gekko, I don't think I can...go on.
...finish out the game, Bud, push yourself...
Nice club, Mr. Gekko...
Yeah... not bad for a City College boy. Bought my way into this club and now every one of these ivy league schmucks is sucking my kneecaps...I just got on the Board of the Zoological Society, cost me a million; that's the thing with WASPS  they like animals but they can't stand people!
Uh, Mr. Gekko, we took a little loss today. We got stopped out on Tarafly... ...about 50 thousand.
I guess your father's not a union representative on that company.
What? How do you know about my father?
The most valuable commodity I know of is information. Wouldn't you agree on that?
Yes...
Know the name?
'Course. Larry Wildman. One of the first raiders.
Sir Larry Wildman. Like all Brits he thinks he was born with a better pot to piss in... bribed an old secretary of mine to open bar mouth and stole RDL Pharmaceuticals right out from under me. Wildman the white knight.
I remember that deal. You were involved?
Revenge is a dish best served cold... well, it's payback time, sport. ... see that building? I bought into it ten years ago. It was my first real estate deal. I sold it a couple of years later and made an $800,000 dollar profit. It was better than sex. At that time I thought that was all tne money in the world... Now, it's a day's pay ... I had a mole in Wildman's employ. Gave me half the picture, then he got fired...
I don't understand.
Wildman's in town. He just became an American citizen. Something big's about to go down. I want to know where he goes and who he sees. I want you, sport, to give me the missing half of the picture...
Follow him? Mr. Gekko I... It's not what I do. I could lose my license. If the SEC found out, I could go to jail. It's inside information, isn't it?
Inside information. Oh you mean like when a father tells his son about a court ruling on an airline? Or someone overhears me saying I'm gonna buy Teldar Paper? Or the chairman of the board of XYZ suddenly knows it's time to blow out XYZ. You mean that? I'm afraid sport, unless you got a father on the board of directors of another company, you and I are gonna have a hard time doing any business...
What about hard work?
What about it? You work hard. I'll bet you stayed up all night analyzing that dog you bought. And where'd it get you?... my father worked hard too like an elephant pushing electrical supplies. And he dropped dead at 49 with a heart attack and a tax bill and the bank pissed on his grave and took the house; my mom ended up working in a dish factory... Wake up pal, if you're not inside you're outside. And I'm not talking a $200,000 a year working Wall Street stiff flying first class and being "comfortable", I'm talking rich pal, rich enough to fly in your own jet, rich enough not to waste time, 50100 million, a player Bud  or nothing. You had what it takes to let through my door. Next question: You got what it takes to stay...??
I got all I could get which was 750,000 shares plus 5000 March 50 calls. Average price of $47 a share And $4 per contract for the call. I just wish I could've got more.
Don't expect to get it all, sport, you'll burn out. First rule of business is never get emotional about stock, clouds the judgment. Where do we stand?
I'll be right there, fix them a drink.
...we have 37.2 million invested. At this point, we're up 3.1 million and some change. If it goes to 75 bucks we can clean close to 12 mill.
You're walking between the raindrops kid. I expect Sir Larry is choking on his royal chamber pot by now.
My firm needs your signature on these option agreements tonight, sir, otherwise we could take a real bath tomorrow.
...Can't it wait? I'm good for it. ...Awright. Come out, get the directions from Natalie and hurry up.
Sorry, Mr. Gekko.
Allright. Wait here...
I guess I'll head back...
Stick around... Larry, one of my "gang"  Bud Fox.
The break up value is higher. It's worth 80.
But we don't want to be greedy now, so let's let him have it at $72.
He's right. I had to sell. The key to the game is your capital reserves. You don't have enough, you can't pee in the tall weeds with the big dogs.
"All warfare is based on deception..." Sun Tzu says, If your enemy is superior, evade him, if angry, irritate him, if equally matched, fight... if not, split and reevaluate.
You're learning, sport...
Money never sleeps pal. When I came in in '69, they traded six hours a day, now the clock don't stop, London's deregulated, the Orient is hungrier than us. Just let the money circle the world, sport, buying and selling, and if you're smart it comes back paying. I just made $800,000 in Hong Kong gold. It's been wired to you  play with it. You done good, but you gotta keep doing good. I showed you how the game works, now school's out.
Mr. Gekko, I'm there for you 110%.
You don't understand. I want to be surprised...astonish me, sport, new info, don't care where or how you get it, just get it... My wife tells me you put a move on Darien. Here's some inside info for you. That Euroflash GQ guy she's going with's got big bucks but he's putting her feet to sleep. Exit visas are imminent. So don't lose your place in line. Oh, jeez, I wish you could see this. The lights coming up over the water. I've never seen a painting that captures the beauty of the ocean at this moment. ...an old Russian proverb  "a fisherman always sees another fisherman from afar." I like you sport, I ever tell you that... Gordon, call me Gordon from now on.
...Gordon.
Yeah, I'm gonna make you rich, Bud Fox. I'm gonna make you rich enough you can afford a girl like Darien. Remember, power is the best aphrodisiac. This is your wakeup call. Go to work.
Got him at an auction in Kentucky.
How much?
Close to two million. But this sucker can go all the way to Devon and the nationals.
The art of which is deception. Spread the buy orders through different accounts and you won't get burned...
I think I got some friends that won't mind making some easy money...
Mixed emotions, Buddy: like Larry Wildman going off a cliff in my new Maserati. Men as smart as myself have got their asses handed to them on a sling with the airlines, fuel could go up, unions are killers...
Yeah aren't you forgetting something Gordon: rule one, capital reserves. This company has $75 million cash in an overfunded pension. That buys us a lot of credibility... ...and the beauty is you already own close to two percent of this sucker...
Gordon what I wantand I never asked you for anythingis to be your copilot on this. I want to take this airline, turn it around, and make it work. It's gonna make us a fortune!
I'm talking to a stockbroker who wants to run an airline. It's gonna take me two years and 2000 headaches to turn Teldar Paper around, what do I need this dink airline for? I'm up to my ass in more nuts than a fruitcake.
Gordon, I worked at Bluestar, I know my way around, I have friends there...inside.
What does that mean?
The three unions. It's 43% of Bluestar's operating budget, the hourly cost of a flight crew is $850 an hour, that's the real hidden value G.G., if you can negotiate that out, get a crew down to $350400 an hour a run, this airline is gonna be the hottest thing since Texas Air...
What makes you think you can?
I can talk to these people Gordon, they trust me...and my father can be a big help in getting cuts.
Alright... Susan, get Buckingham on the box. I want him to look at it. And tell Jock Taylor at Thwick, Jensen... So sport, the falcon has heard the falconer...tell me more...
And I'd like to introduce you to Mr. Gekko, and his lawyer, Mr. Salt.
A pleasure to meet you, Mr. Fox.
Now, wait a minute, Dad...
Sure. What's worth doing is worth doing for money. It's a bad bargain where nobody gains. And if this deal goes through, we all gain.
I didn't know we had a meeting schedule for this morning.
I'm sorry, this can't wait.
What the hell do you want?
I found out about the garage sale down at Bluestar. Why?
Last night I read Rudy the story of Winnie the Pooh and the Honey pot. Know what happened: he stuck his nose in that honey pot once too often and got stung.
Maybe you ought to read him Pinocchio. You told me you were going to turn Bluestar around. Not upside down. You used me.
You're walking around blind without a cane, sport. A fool and his money are lucky to get together in the first place.
Why do you need to wreck this company?
Because it's wreckable. I took another look and I changed my mind.
If these people lose their jobs, nowhere to go. My father worked at Bluestar for twentyfour years. I gave 'em my word.
It's all about bucks, kid, the rest is conversation... Bud, you're still going to be president. And when the time comes, you'll parachute out a rich man. With the money you're going to make, your father won't have to work another day in his life.
Tell me, Gordonwhen does it all end? How many yachts can you waterski behind? How much is enough?
Buddy, it's not a question of enough. It's a zero sum game, sport. Somebody wins and somebody loses. Money itself isn't lost or made, it's simply transferred from one perception to another. Like magic. That painting cost $60,000 10 years ago. I could sell it today for $600,000. The illusion has become real. And the more real it becomes, the more desperately they want it. Capitalism at its finest.
How much is enough Gordon?
The richest one percent of this country owns half the country's wealth: 5 trillion dollars. One third of that comes from hard work, two thirds of it comes from inheritance, interest on interest accumulation to widows and idiot sons and what I do  stock and real estate speculation. It's bullshit. Ninety percent of the American people have little or no net worth. I create nothing; I own. We make the rules, Buddy, the news, war, peace, famine, upheaval; the cost of a paper clip. We pull the rabbit out of the hat while everybody else sits around their whole life wondering how we did it... ...you're not naive enough to think we're living in a democracy are you, Buddy? It's the free market. You're one of us now...take advantage of it. You got the killer instinct, kid, stick with me. I got things to teach you...
Obviously...
Believe me, Buddy, I was gonna discuss this with you at the right time. Look, why don't you calm down and come to the apartment for dinner tonight. Bring Darien...
...I can't make it tonight.
Are you with me Buddy?
Gordon, it's two minutes to close. What do you want to do?! Decide.
Dump it.
Hello Bud.
Gordon.
You sandbagged me on Bluestar. I guess you think you taught the teacher a lesson, that you can make the tail wag the dog, huh?
Fox, Bud D. is this deja vu or has it really been a year. You're not hitting me up for NYU are you?
Well we're thinking of putting up a statue of you in the subway. I hear you're moving up in the world. An associate already. Not bad. How's Margie?
Can't complain. Got a house in Oyster Bay. Market treating you good? Still seeing that sexy French gal?
Nah, she asked the wrong question.
What was that?
"What are you thinking?"...that was it. The hours are hell, but the money's starting to tumble in. I know this guy who's got an iron clad way to make money, I can't lose and I can't get hurt.
So, does "this guy" have a tip for an honest lawyer?
Yeah, check out Teldar Paper, it's still not over.
Okay.
What about you, I hear you guys are handling the Fairchild Foods merger and it may not be going through. Any surprises I haven't read about in the Wall Street Journal?
Come on Buddy, you wouldn't want to got me disbarred now would you?
Who's listening? It's just one college buddy talking to another.
Yeah, right...
Relax, Roger, everybody's doing it but you don't know, you don't know.
...and if I did, what's in it for moi?
More money than you ever dreamed, Roger. And the thing is no one gets hurt...how bout a beer?
Too much to do...but I'll walk you out.
...and you don't have to put up a dime, Roger.
All right, Bud... let's do it.
So what's the problem?
...got a strange call from the SEC. They asked to see my records... Bud, this is a heavy...
....Relax Roget You're 82M in the account numbers and I'm the Invisible Man... they're always looking for red flags, Gekko's always getting checked by them, they never come up with anything... we're invulnerable on this...
Alright... I just wanna slow down Bud... no more calls for awhile, no lunches... we suspend our business, alright...
Sure Roger, whatever you want, it's cool.
Gekko asked us into the Bluestar deal. We're reviewing the timetables, wanna come?
He never told me...
You're just the President of the company, what do you know? ... Come on.
Hello Bud, I'm Lisa, a friend of Gordon's.
Lisa. Gordon? Oh, Mr. Gekko. Sure. Would you, uh, like to come in?
Didn't he tell you? That's so like Gordon. Get dressed, we're going out.
We are?
So, where are we going?
Wherever you like, Lutece, 21, the River Cafe...or maybe we can just drive around for a while. Work up an appetite.
Want some? Gordon tells me you're a very talented broker. What do you like?
Like? Uh...hmmm. Well...
I got this guy who should know tells me buy Hewlitt Packard but I been burned on tips. What do you think Bud?
Let's see, it closed at uh, 41 1/8... Up a quarter...very attractive... about average yield...
Rising profits...strong balance sheets, good earnings per share.
So you're hot on this stock?
It's ready to take off. I'd jump all over it if I were you.
Sure, and I'm never gonna die either, is this one of your chain letter schemes or do I gotta buy a door to door cosmetic franchise in Northern Arkansas?
No, no Dixon, my client wants to buy a large, large block of stock and needs to spread it around. I'll park some money in your account and if it hits, you get a big cut. I'm telling you, this is the easiest money you ever made...
...this guy who said he was from the Security Exchange Commission, whatever the hell that is, calls and wants to ask me about that stock I bought...
What'd you tell him?
I told him I was in the bathroom and I'd call him right back. What the hell was I supposed to say Buddy, you got me into...
Look Dixon, calm down! It's not illegal to buy stock or to be right. And it's not all that unusual to be spot checked on a big buy. Tell him you did your homework and you thought the stock was a sound investment.
What if he asks where I got the money?
Tell 'em your father gave it to you.
What if they call him?
They won't. That's not their jurisdiction.
You sure?
Yes! Read the Constitution, it's all in there. And rememberyou don't know anything, nothing.
I don't know anything!
Good. Then call him back. And call me back. Don't worry.
Hello, Natalie, you recognize the voice? I'll give you a hint, you're thinking seriously about marrying me...
What are you doing here?
...And you're even lovelier than I pictured. I brought a birthday present for Mr. Gekko.
First of all, Mr. Fox, you can't just come barging in here. And what makes you think it's his birthday?
It's in the bible, see. You better go buy him a present. Please, Natalie. Let me give him the gift; Cuban cigarsDavidoff, his favorite and hard to get.
Stay here, I'll see what I can do.
...thanks Natalie.
...have a nice day Mr. Stone. ... Mr. Gekko, the conference call is ready. Mr. Sugarman and Mr. Lorenzo in Delaware. Mr. Bernard in Los Angeles. Mr. Jackson and Ms. Rosco in London. They're all on.
...leave me alone willya. Only thing makes me feel good anymore. Spaghetti. She makes lousy spaghetti...
It's called pasta now Dad, spaghetti's out of date.
... looks like you grown another inch... but you don't look so hot, getting bags under your eyes, starting to look old like me.
Ah, I had a tough day. Some jerk D.K'd me and I gotta cover his loss.
Speak English will ya.
D.K.  didn't know  who I was when the options he bought took a bath. He reneged on me.
I told you not to go into that racket. You could've been a doctor or a lawyer,
Coulda been a contender.
you coulda stayed at Bluestar and been a supervisor in instead of going customer relations by now, 'stead of going off and bein' a salesman.
Look Dad, I'm not a salesman. How many times I gotta tell you I'm an account executive, and pretty soon I'm going to the investment banking side of the firm.
You get on the phone and ask strangers for their money, right? You're a salesman.
Dad, it takes time. You gotta build a customer list. I'm doing it. I could make more money in one year as a broker than five years at the airline.
I don't get it, you get a scholarship to NYU, you get 35,000 the first year, and 50 last year, where the hell is it?
50 K don't get you to first base in the Big Apple, Dad, not any more. I pay 40% in taxes, I got a rent of 15,000, I got school loans, car loans, food, park my car costs me 3 bills a month, I need good suits, that's $500 a pop, shoes...
So come home and live rent free, 'stead of that cockroach palace you live in. $50,000 Jesus Christ, the world is off its rocker. I made $37,000 last year and you...
It's Queens, Dad and a 5% mortgage and you rent the top roomI gotta live in Manhattan to be a player, Dad. There's no nobility in poverty anymore, y'know. One day you're going to be proud of me, you'll see...
It's yourself you've got to be proud of, Huckleberry, how much ya need?
Can you spare three hundred? Pay you back next month, promise.
...Got a 100 on me, you...
Not in here Dad... please. Later.
... it adds up Buddy, 300 here, 200 there. Your brother never... ...well, I always said money is something you need in case you don't die tomorrow...
How's Mom?
...same, pain in the ass, god bless her, talks too much... gonna take her to Florida next month... west coast, near Tampa, like to get out for good, but can't afford it.
...Work okay?
...this drug testing is driving my guys nuts. I got flagged for my blood pressure pills. The only good news is, we just met with the comptroller over some union stuff...'member that crash last summer? and the investigation? Well, the FAA is gonna rule it was a manufacturing flaw in the door latch mechanism. I kept telling 'em it wasn't maintenance, it was those goddamn greedy manufacturers out in Cincinnati. And I was right.
That's great Dad.
Damn right, it gets us out from under suspension. We'll get those new routes to Pittsburgh and Boston and the equipment we need. We're gonna compete with the big boys now.
Hey to Bluestar, as your broker all I can advise is hold on to that stock Dad...
You sure about this FAA announcement?
About what?
The FAA announcement.
Sure I'm sure. Buddy, you got that mischievous look in your eyes. You used to smile just like that when you were a baby sleeping, just like that.
What brings you out here...
Client. Got a private jet over at Butler Aviation... Dad, you always gotta light up when you see me, it's the...
Don't start, alright.
Alright. Why so pissed?
Goddamn fare wars are murdering us. Had to lay off five guys. Nothing I could do. What is it... money?
Sure...lots of guys at the track talk like that... but how do you know you'll have any dough next month... What's this? I gave you two hundred.
Dividend. I figure I owe you about five thousand in nickels and dimes...
...don't be crazy. Put it to your school loans.
Don't worry about the loans. I'm doing good Dad and it's gonna stay that way now... least buy yourself a new suit.
What do I need a fancy suit for. I don't hobnob with the jet set. I just fix their planes.
Problem with money is you never have enough or you got too much  and when you got it you're never happy 'cause somebody's always trying to take it away from you. Money's one giant pain in the ass y'ask me... thanks.
... Dad, you should've been a CEO. How about dinner?
Whatever night you like.
Wait... next week's booked. Let me check with my girl and get back to you on Monday.
Yeah, you do that huckleberry. I'll still be here.
...gotta run Dad. You stop smoking, you hear?
Dad, you know Duncan Wilmore, pilot's union, and Toni Carpenter, flight attendants...
I met them before you were born.
He's got your prick in his back pocket, son, and you're standing naked in the display window of Macy's. He's using you. Only you're too blind to see it.
No, what I see is a jealous old machinist who can't stand that his son's become more successful than himself.
What you see, son, is a man who never measured success by the size of a man's wallet.
That's because you never had the guts to go out into the world and stake your claim.
Boy, if that's what you think, I must've really screwed up my job as a father.
...as far as being axed, I'm still here and as long as I am, I have a responsibility not just to me but to the union members I represent...
Your responsibility, Dad, is to present the facts, not your opinions, to the men... you're gonna destroy their lives, Dad! Don't do it to 'em. Give it a chance. Let the membership decide for themselves, Dad. Please.
I'll be damned that when my men come to me tomorrow morning, wanting to know what's going on, I'm going to lie to them!
Your men! All my life "your men" have been able to count on you? Why is it that you've never been there for me?
Your words, not mine...
You speak for me, son.
Another cup of coffee?
No, thanks, I'm nervous enough.
I guess it's time to hit the road.
Yeah, don't want to be late for my own funeral.
Dad, I'm going to jail and you know it.
Maybe that's the price, Bud, maybe so. It's gonna be rough on you but maybe in some screwed up way, that's the best thing that can happen to you...stop trading for the quick buck and go produce something with your life, create, don't live off the buying and selling of others...
I gotta feeling we're going to make a killing today, Marv.
Yeah, where's your machine gun.
Joke about it. I was up all night charting these stocks. You want to see this or what?
Looks bearish to me, buddy. You got it all upside down. Okay, I'm giving this to you and you alone, 'cause I feel sorry for you. Take the Knicks against the Bullets, and my pick of the day  Duke to beat the spread against Wake Forest.
Thanks, Marv, with that I might be able to qualify for welfare.
Buddy, buddy, buddy; little trouble, huh, today.
Howard the Jerk reneged on me. I've got to cover his loss to the tune of about seven grand! I'm tapped out man, American Express got a hit man looking for me.
Hey, things could be worse. It could've been my money. Let me help you out, rookie.
Thanks Marv, I'll make it good to you. You know what my dream is? One day to be on the other end of that phone...
Just put me on the institutional side of the room where the real cheesecake is. You forgetting something?
Buddy, buddy, when ya gonna realize it's big game hunters that bag the elephants, not retail brokers. I heard this story about Gekko... he was on the phone 30 seconds after the Challenger blew up selling NASA stocks short.
Hello, Natalie  guess who? That's right, and you know everyday I say to myself, today could be the day... So what do you say... will you marry me? Then please can you get me through to Mr. Gekko?
It concerns his future!
Of course he's busy, and so am I. Five minutes. That's all I'm asking. I know that if he could only hear what I have to say... it would change his life.
...well, see him?
Yeah, but he didn't see me.
Cheer up buddy buddy. You shook Gekko the Great's hand and you still got all your fingers. He's not the only elephant in the jungle.
...got tickets for the Knicks tonight. Go out and cruise some bimbos afterwards, whaddaya say?
...gotta read my reports.
Forget charts! We're not fund managers, Bud, churn 'em and burn 'em. I'm offering you the Knicks and chicks. God save you before you turn into poor Steeples over there.
Nice guy but a loser. Lost all his equity when his firm went belly up in the recession of 71. you wanna be coming in here in your late sixties still pitching? ... Whatever happened to that cute analyst at Thudder, Wicks? ... Cindy? Susan?
Cindy. Having sex with her is like reading the Wall Street Journal 'cept the Journal don't talk back. 'Sides this AIDS crap is ruining romance, nobody trusts anybody anymore, gotta get a blood test in the toilet before you leave a bar together, somebody oughtta invent an AIDS dipstick, no kidding, make a fortune. I gotta get to work... Z's today.
Got a little action there, eh buddy?
Marv, ...I just bagged the elephant!
Buddy, buddy, some buddy; why didn't you tell me to buy Bluestar.
Hey Marv, he demanded confidentiality...
Gimme a break. You buy Bluestar Airlines yesterday. Today they just happen to get good news and the stock goes bat shit. You must have ESP. A real Nostradamus. Jesus Christ, what are friends for?
All right, I owe you one Marv.
That's right, next time a little birdie talks to you, talk to me too E.F. Hutton.
What the hell...
Anacott Steel. Buy it.
What's going on?
Lynch is giving him the boot... He's not pulling his quota.
Hey you hear the news. I just got a job at a new firm: "Dewey, Cheat 'em and Howe." Yuk yuk.
Didn't I tell you to knock before you came in here?
Hey the door was open.
Then get out and close it behind you.
You know what you need, buddy buddyan optorectomy. That's when they cut the nerve that runs from your brain to your rectumto change that shitty attitude of yours.
Get the hell out!
I agree. Go thou and sin no more.
I want to make it up to you. Bluestar, put all your clients in it.
Thanks, buddy, buddy, I'm back. Say, Buddy, those optorectomies do work wonders.
The stock's going to Pluto!
Start unloading.
Sell?
Now! Tell everyone to dump!
...hey Chuckie, how's the woman slayer?
...still looking for the right 18 year old wife, how you doing, pal?
...if I had your looks, better.
...takes years of genetics, pal, and a Yale education... and the right tailor.
...not that you learned anything, Chunk.
Buddy boy, how ya doing?
Great Charlie, any better it'd be a sin.
Wanna play some tennis Saturday?
You mean teach you how to play. Can't. Going fly fishing in Canada, big client...
...you take that Anacott Steel?
...light snack, but good, thanks pal, you're sharking your way up...
So whaddaya say pal, wanna play some doubles at Piping? Meet the membership? I got a little blonde named Mandy, about nineteen, avec cafe au lait boobs... she's mine but she's got a cousin who has great muffins.
...sounds dubious Chuck, but Piping Rock any day.
... That's what you told us to say.
Give me that phone. Yes, sir, this is the manager. What seems to be the problem?
He's lying.
Okay, sir. I'll discuss this with the broker and I'll get back to you. You're welcome.
If I'm closing out this account. If he doesn't pay for it tomorrow, you pay for it.
Mr. Lynch, I swear to you, he's lying!
Fox, you're making more problems than you are sales.
I don't think you're being fair, sir. You assigned me this guy, and you know he's got a history...
Somebody has to pay for that error. And it's not me.
Nice piece of work, Fox. Why don't you join me and the partners for lunch tomorrow in the dining room?
I'd love to, Mr. Lynch, thank you.
Thank you, Janet...thank you, Mr. Lynch.
No, thank you. I knew the minute I laid eyes on you, you had what it takes Bud. Just keep it going.
Hi...can I buy you a drink? I'm celebrating tonight.
Please, no thanks...
Look, I know you get approached a lot by dubious men, but I'm different, I never talk to strangers, all my life I've been waiting for the right person to walk across the room... you're that person, you don't know it but I do and if you walk away now I'll never see you again or you me. You'll grow old.
Oh really.
I'll grow old. We'll both die. And we'll never have known each other. That's sad. At least one drink for a dreamer...What's your favorite drink?
Grand Marnier.
Sounds like a french word, what is it?
It's a romantic and tragic drink.
Sounds tempting. I prefer mine with a twist of fate. You know like us meeting. Don't go away...
Look Harold, they're vulnerable, alright, but we don't want 'em to think they're under accumulation. Go slow. Call Geneva and the Bahamas for me, will ya? We feint towards it but we wait...
What about tipping off Yurovich?
If I ever need surgery, get me the heart of an arb like Yurovich, it's never been used...Happy Holideals Harold...
Gordon, the insurance people are balking on the logging trucks...
Tell those spineless toads we'll selfinsure if they don't write it... You fire 33 vice presidents and nothing changes... You eating twinkies today, Bud, or are you schtupping some stewardess...
Who the hell's out there? What are the arbs saying? It's gotta be a big hitter.
They don't know what's going on!
Fox says Bluestar just hit 23. What do you want him to do?
Sell it all. What the hell, so I'll only make ten million.
....beautiful.
Of course, we're gonna need some <u>water</u>, uh...
Is it a <u>stream</u>, or is it a...
No, I think..
a "pond," or
No, I think it's ... can we see the calico <u>kitten</u>...?
Yup.
How 'bout a Cold Drink...?
Oh, hell...
Susie? Susie. Are you alright...? <u>Susie</u>...
Lemme talk to him. Will? Shoe?
SUSIE...? Are you alright...?
Lemme talk to him. Shoe? Shoe...? You in there...?
Long's you git me back for the beans...
...for the beans, yes...
This is <u>nothing</u>, Wait'll you've worked with a movie star, one time, this is nothing, we keep him shotup and happy  the Old Days, I used to think I was a <u>pharmacist</u>, the kind of stuff I had to do. One time...
Cause the beans, y'know, y'can tell if they're <u>puttin</u> stuff in it.
What the fuck did you <u>mean</u>, "What kind of stuff?"?
...this is nothing. This is nothing. D'you ever shoot in <u>Italy</u>? Try three Italian starlets on Benzedrine, this is a walk in the park...
...who <u>are</u> you? Who <u>are</u> you sonofabitches...
Just want to take a nap.
He's not dead, Ronnie. He's just a little understandab1y, <u>fatigued</u>. Let's get him to some help...
...gimme some help...
That's right, we'll take a nap. We'll get you to Washington, we'll get you Back to your Buddies, and...
...just want to Get Back to the Beans...
Come on, you fucking sissy, you think this is tough? Try showbusiness. 19701990, n'ybody I worked with, y'could of bottled their piss n'sold it in the <u>ghettos</u>... Come on, Pal...
...where's my l'il <u>pill</u>?
Show some compassion.
...mmm.
...'bout ready to Mix it Up...?
Is today Laundry Day...?
Someone's bringing in a kitten...?
No, no, no.... we'll punch <u>in</u> a kitten. Um... <u>Later</u>.
...you're gonna Punch in a Kitten Later.
Yes.
Why...?
A wider option of what?
...of kittens...
The Special AntiTerrorist Detachment of the Border Patrol... what do they <u>do</u>...?
...they... <u>you</u> know...
Oh huh...
...they have the capacity to Meld into the <u>Woods</u>, and...
And one of them is in love with the <u>sister</u> of...
I'm just talking about the Hats.
The hats.
A beret.
Why a beret?
Cause you can crush it and put it in your pocket.
"...the special detachment..." Good! What is it?
With their berets...
...their Leopard Skin Berets....
I need a ruling on the Hats. I say a Leopardskin, and...
Hey, <u>you're</u> getting the big bucks.... I think we're upandrunning...
What would be true, then.
Well, you said it yourself, earlier, and if I may rephrase, that the success of the President, in the Polls...
...as of today, 89% favorable.
Eighty<u>nine</u> percent favorable, is based not on <u>events</u>...
...by you?
By the media, by, yes, by, in this case, our organization.
Well, there's a lot to be said for that. And I'm going to show a clip. You've seen it before, you've seen it <u>many</u> times... But I'm going to ask you to look at it once more. With the election one day off, and the President's standing in the polls...
It's tough to rhyme.
I believe in you....
Albania, Albania, Albania, James bond Villains.
John Belushi... <u>Jim</u> Belushi...
Jim Belushi...?
Surest thing you know.
They guard our, <u>you</u> know ... "borders," night and day...
Yeah, good good good good good. And They're <u>So</u> <u>Secret</u>...
I have the White House on the Line.
...one minute: Demille needs an elephant for a reshoot.
...the Suitcase Bomb. ACT ONE Albania denies it. President comes on the air, "Be Calm." Okay, now: Good. Now, Alright. Act <u>TWO</u>... I need the following here. Right now: Johnnie Green, Liz Butsky, and get me the Fad King.
Isn't Johnny Green in the...
No, he's back in Nashville.
Public Domain.
And what? What? She was Driven From Her Home, by Albanian Terrorists. It is her we are mobilizing to defend... it is "she"?
Wearemobilizingtodefend<u>her</u>.
Can we give'er a <u>kitten</u>?
No problem. Here's the...
I didn't ask for a dog.
...the pet wrangler suggested it..he's also got a...
Do it later... Okay, now, "The Little Girl," who is she, what is she doing? She is....she's ...Okay, okay, it's an Albanian village... She is the victim of, she has been <u>relocated</u>, to, to, for the <u>terrorists</u>, the Government Labs...the, the... a <u>staging</u> area for their Atomic workshop. They're torturing her family, because they have connections in Canada, which would permit the terrorists access to the American Border.
Better.
You like it?
Yes.
Fine. Good.
Why can't it be a ribbon?
It can't be a ribbon cause AIDS had a ribbon, cause the Yellow Ribbon thing had a ribbon, cause...
Uh...uh... Mounties. The Mounties Guard The Border. uh... those Mountie Hats.
They look stupid.
We had Davy Crockett hats... They made a fortune.
We had Davy Crockett hats, but you could <u>crush</u>'em ... you could <u>crush</u>'em, see, when you felt stupid. Crush'em, put em in your Pocket. You can't put a Mountie hat in your...
Shoes, Hats....
The special hats of the Special Antiterrorist detachment of the Border Patrol.
Black...
Leopard Skin...
Well, <u>that</u> ain't very butch, is it?
It's a <u>beret</u>...
...I meant the Leopard Skin...
British Regiments drape their drums in Leopard Skins.
Thank God this is America.
Look, look, look, look, Canada, okay...? Our neighbor to the North, alla sudden, transformed, into That Place, where, like the North Wind, <u>Terror</u> comes...
Keep Talking....
What guards Us Against Canada...?
...what am I <u>doing</u>? Do you see me working...? Here's what you want to do, you want to come out of the box, an item, someone 'ready <u>has</u>, but <u>then</u> you sell it to'em. Torn <u>jeans</u>, uh ... faded Levi Jackets, uh... uh...
Where are we on the Image? Grace? <u>Grace</u>...
Headshots. Girls to play the girl in our footage. I like the sorrowful one. Anybody Else....?
...what is this?
I go with this here...
Too Texan. Go with the stick. Thanks. <u>What</u>...? ...does it have to be <u>Albania</u>...We're locked into Albania...why?
Bunny: I had an idea: a Slinky, that falls <u>Up</u>... Naa, we can figure that <u>out</u>. What I'm wondering: what do we <u>call</u> it... You got my number...
Why are they ...
We got the guy, we got the guy, we got the Guy!
The Canada Thing was a shuck. A <u>shuck</u>  wasted a day. What can you do with Canada? Bears, mapleleafs, "sugar onSnow." Lays there on the plate like a lox.
It's like those Japanese in the Caves on Okinawa... didn't believe the War was Over.
You got a guy, doesn't believe the War is... NO NO NO. An American Serviceman... A brave American Serviceman, is Left <u>Behind</u> ... He is Left Behind. He is discarded like an Old Shoe... Gemme the Pentagon. List of people in all Military Special Programs.... Left behind. Like the Old Shoe... Johnny: "Good Old Shoe"...
...what do you got?
Military Special Programs... <u>Programs</u>... No, I am not Shouting at you, I'm... I'm sorry. Anyone named <u>Shoe</u> Schumann? <u>Schuster</u>... uh
All part of the Service we Render.
He ain't seen <u>nothin'</u> yet.
When do you bring'em back? Schumann.
Going to make a little stop back home, pick up my shirts, show him a little treat.
See y'at the Finish Line.
Tell'em to fly the Inaugural Speech past me.
Don't tune it too good.
Leave it flat, will you, Ben?
William Schuman. Old Shoe. U.S. Army. Serial number, 21312841262.
Take ten.
Hold it a minute, Benny, willya?
It's too clean.
Let's take the bridge from <u>nine</u>, and the intro from <u>one</u>, and...
It's got to sound like an <u>acetate</u> recording, 1930.
Hold it a minute, Benny, we're going to tweak it a bit. This may take a while.
Do I know you?
We have some mutual friends in Washington.
And you're here <u>why</u>...?
I'm here, Mr. Moss, because you've shown yourself a great supporter of the Party.
Party's gonna need more than a couple bucks now.
What one has to do, Mr. Moss. Is to fight a holding action.
...holding action. THEY'RE GOING TO TEAR THIS GUY TO <u>Shreds</u>.
If we can hold the breakinthedam for ten days, til the election, we...
Yeah, hut you can't hold the dam. How the hell, n'nu'n', I don't get what you want <u>me</u> to ...
What do you want the kid to say?
Have him say, 'I know we're all concerned for the President, there will he an update at 5:45.'
String a few together. All I need's eleven,
How you going to stretch it? This won't hold for eleven days. Guy fucked a twelve yearold...whadday're gonna do to hold that off?
What do you think would hold it off?
Uh, <u>nothing</u>, oh, <u>nothing</u> ... uh... a <u>War</u>, uh... You're kidding.
I'm a Jew in Show Business. Why come to me?
I'm gonna <u>tell</u> you why...
Here's the Short Course: FiftyFour, Forty or Fight. What does <u>that</u> mean?
Uh, it's a slogan. From, uh...
Remember the Maine...
That's from the ... it's got to be from the...
Tippecanoe and Tyler, Too!
...uh ... No, that's...
We remember the slogans, we can't even remember the fucking <u>wars</u>. Y'know why. Cause it's <u>show business</u>. That's why I'm here. Naked girl, covered in Napalm. Five marines Raising the Flag, Mount Suribachi. Churchill, V for Victory, Y'remember the Picture, fifty years from now, they'll have forgotten the war. Gulf War? Smart Bomb, falling through the roof. 2500 missions a day, 100 days, <u>One Shot</u> of One Bomb. The American people bought that war. M'I getting through to you? War in the Balkans, don't mean nothing, till some G.I. flyer, went down, Eating Snakes for Ten days. N'then It's show business, Mister Moss. That's why I'm here.
It's like being a producer, Mr. Moss. The Things in Trouble. Somebody's got to wade in, save the thing. You get the Actors get up there, and strut and <u>Posture</u>. But somebody, knows what's what, got to jump in and Save the Thing.
Why Albania?
Why not?
Who?
The...
"They Got To Know?" <u>Stan</u>...? Get with it. Who Killed Kennedy...? I read the first draft of the Warren Report, said he was killed by a Drunk <u>Driver</u>. You watched the Gulf War. What did you see? Day after day, the one "Smart Bomb" falling into a building. The <u>truth</u>, I was in the building when they <u>shot</u> that shot, they shot it in a studio, Falls Church Virginia, 1/10th scale model of a building.
Is that true?
How the fuck do <u>we</u> know. You take my point?
...going to War...
It's not "war." It is a <u>Pageant</u>. It's a <u>Pageant</u>... Like the Oscars... why we came to <u>you</u>...
I never won an Oscar.
N'it's a crying shame. But you <u>staged</u> the Oscars...
Yes. Indeed I did.
You know, you're a <u>writer</u>, that's your script. You're a <u>director</u>... But if you're the <u>producer</u> ... what did you do? What did you do? All you've got is the <u>credit</u>... Some plaque on the wall...
And <u>if</u> you never won an Oscar, How'd you like an ambassadorship...
Hell, I'd just do it for the <u>hell</u> of having <u>done</u> it, for a story to tell...
Well, no, well, you couldn't <u>tell</u> any...
Hey, I know that, hey, I'm <u>kidding</u>... "It's a pageant"
...that's what it is.
"The Country Is At War."
It's Miss America, N'you're Bert Parks.
...Yoha, Yoha... Yoha. <i>Why</i> Albania?
Because.
They got to have something that we want.
I'm sure they do.
What do we have that they want?
"Freedom."
Why would they want that?
...who is this guy...?
Act Two: and then, Act Two...
We don't need an Act Two.
And get me the Fad King. No. Get him First... We don't need an Act Two?
We've just got to hold their interest for ten more days, till the Election.
...it's a Teaser!
It's a teaser, absolutely right,
You can't have a war without an enemy.
No, King, I need you here <u>yesterday</u>... How long do I need him for?
Well, you could <u>have</u> one, but it'd be a very ineffective war... We're <u>done</u> in 10 days...
Ten Days. There going to be any Back End in this thing?
W...what?
...there gonna be any money in this thing?
"Back End" ... count on it.
Lots n lotsa cash. Stay on for Gracie, she'll get you a ticket
King, King, I got a thing here, a product placement, gonna have a bigger backend than Hattie McDaniel. Now:
I gotta protect the Canadian Horder,
Threeothree...
The men and women of Detachment ThreeOThree, with their...
What is it?
President's speech.
At the Airport? Cause we decided at the Airport he hugs the fat, wet Albanian Broad, we...
No, no, no, no, no <u>after</u> the airport.
What?
The War is Over. Senator Nole just ended the War.
The War ain't over.
I saw it on TV.
The war ain't over til I <u>say</u> it's over. This is <u>my</u> picture. You think you're in a <u>spot</u>? You think this is a tight spot? Try making the Hunchback of Notre Dame when your three lead actors <u>die</u>, two weeks from the end of Principal Photography. This is... this is... this is just... Act One: THE WAR. Act <u>Two</u> ... the... uh...
What're you gonna do with Morse Code?
...we put your Guy in a <u>sweater</u>...
Yeah...?
"Good Old Shoe  " We put him in a sweater.
He can't respond to the Allegations. I don't care <u>how</u> many girlscouts are picketing the ... look, look, look, we're coming home with <u>Gold</u>. Eh? Tell him to hold firm for <u>two hours</u>... coming home with Gold.
Did we ever use those costumes for the Border Patrol? Those guys in the LeopardSkin <u>Hats</u>? Here's my idea....
I think it's fine?
It's not too <u>clean</u>...
No, it's... I'll, yes, I'm holding, but... No, it's ...
In the Folk Music Section.
In the Folk Music Section. We'll be in in...
...this the Guy.
Oh, he's gonna be Aces.
Where is he now?
Some, military... Special Program, Oklahoma somewhere...
...we get our hands on him?
They got him standing by.
What's the thing with Morse Code...
Oh, you're gonna love this:
My prop guy, had a guy out here.
Get it in the stacks at the Library of Congress, Now. Who's seeing the guy at C.B.S.?
What?
What do you mean he won't do it? He won't do <u>what</u>? He won't do the sp... It's what? It's <u>corny</u>? <u>Corny</u>? Is that the word? Of <u>course</u> it's corny. We wouldn't have him <u>say</u> the flippin' thing it wasn't corny. Put... listen, it's not a question, we're locked <u>in</u> to this speech. NO We're, Are You Listening? LOCKED IN. We're, we're playing way <u>past</u> it, we're <u>past</u> it  it's the setup for...he has <u>got</u> to say the speech. Tell Ames to meet me at the West Gate in...
Not bad for government work. Having a good time.
Haven't had so much fun since Live TV.
Mmm...
You do your job right, nobody should notice.
Mmm.
S'only when you fuck up, everything gets full of shit. Do you think we could line him up for the Peace Prize?
Hey, our job ends at the Finish Line.
Yes, but I, well, <u>you</u> know...
Just for the Symmetry of the thing...?
...that's right.
If they can give Kissenger the Peace Prize, I wouldn't be surprised to wake up and find I'd won the Preakness.
Well, yes, but the guy <u>did</u> bring Peace.
Yes, but there wasn't a War.
All the greater accomplishment.
Inaugural Speech, press corp's gonna be jealous of giving up that one...
Hey, lemme close out the thing in style.
I've come to feel It's my thing. You know, you take a job... You take a job, and, many times, it's <u>just</u> a job. And then...
Hell of a Ride, Stanley...
...<u>isn't</u> it? Hey, whatthehey ... it's all part of the bittersweet...
Against...who could be aggressor....Help me out here...Units of 303, the Defense Department confirms, early this morning, Albanian Time, stormed a mountain hideaway, near the city of  help me out here  and freed a tired, but happy William Schumann, Suffering no casualties. His condition is reported as Guarded, and his route to the US has not been disclosed, but a high White House source confirms he is expected in Washington tomorrow morning...no, that's for the wire service. Moss's working on Big Bird's Inaugural. Nine A.M...? Nine? Miss the commuters, but...
...we'll gettim in their cars.
Yeah, we'll gettem in their cars. I'm slowing down... No, no. Look, lookit: I think it's a mistake, well, I'll <u>tell</u> you why: you got'em by the balls, <u>Squeeze</u>. Because Schumann's the Shark. He's ...<u>Jaws</u>. You have to <u>tease</u>'em... You don't puttem in the first reel of the movie... Bring'em back <u>slow</u>, the President... No, no, put him on. Put him on. President wants to reveal Scbumann before the election.
Big mistake.
Hell, yes, we're, we're on our way to get him now. No. Lookit: it's like a girl with her virginity, y'understand...
Guy says he'll respect her tomorrow, he <u>might</u>, but why take a chance? Hold out til after you're married. That's... that's.... looky, we're offering'em Schumann, make em <u>vote</u> for hhhh.... psychologically, they will understand that that's the bargain. Make them pay for him. Make... that's right, the price is their vote. Now, we bring him home, the President announces he is flying <u>home</u>, he's <u>here</u>, he's <u>there</u>... f'there the election, TA DA, here he is. Have him say it like I wrote it, It'll be fine. Thanks. Labor, five bucks an hour. If you <u>watch</u>, <u>ten</u> bucks an hour. If you <u>help</u> ... if you <u>help</u>, a <u>hundred</u> bucks an hour.
Hey, lcokit: <u>any</u> business...
Ain't <u>that</u> the truth.
Whattaya gonna do when this is all over?
What am <u>I</u> gonna do? I'm gonna "Fade Away." What are you gonna do?
Well, I'll be damned if I <u>know</u> ... you know... doing this <u>thing</u> ... You know what the worst word is, in the English Language? It's retirement." What the <u>hell</u> was I thinking of? Hell, I used to...
We pick up Schumann. Sneak him back inside the Beltway. And we plan his homecoming. Zt's gone be Neil Armstrong, Dr. Livingston, and <u>Lindy</u>...They're gonna forget, they're gonna forget, they're gonna forget that there <u>is</u> an election...The Pres's gonna have to say, one of his speeches, "Don't forget to Vote..."
I got it in the inaugural. "Thank you for voting for me, but, <u>as</u> importantly: Thank you for <u>voting</u>...
Getting off on the inaugural? Gonna go...
Might, if I was asked...
Medal. Medal and Ribbon.
Of what?
The Albanian Campaign.
...the Albanian Campaign. This... this is history...
...the Albanian Campaign. And we won't even be a footnote...
We <u>were</u> the Albanian campaign, John  <u>We Were There</u>.
They should be. Most valuable animal since Sea Biscuit. <u>Isn't</u> he...
Bigger than that. For want of a nail a <u>Kingdom</u> was lost...
You've <u>got</u> something, there...
...a masterpiece...
...givem what they want...But...
I thought they weren't meeting him at the airport...
They insist they wanna go with meeting him at the airport. I told'em they're wrong, I can't convince'em. They're concerned that the last kid had the <u>Wheat</u>. Variations include, the kid is a <u>boy</u>, the kid is <u>twins</u>, it's a little <u>dog</u> ... they rub meat on Schumann's cuff, the dog runs to him...
Uh...
I think we asked for "special programs" and they gave us "special prisons."
Yeah, well  it's only one word difference.
A slight, a slight, well, no, we're gonna <u>deal</u> with it, we just, I need a little readjustment...we need to re<u>think</u>...
Yes, William, Uh, we have this <u>thing</u> we're doing...
He's fine, as long as he gets his medication.
Speaking of that... We're gonna need a whole lot <u>more</u> of this....
Just....do what I ...look: get me a ...hello...? Hel...? I'm going to need an <u>ambulance</u>, we take him, the last moment, right from the Pl...no, <u>we</u> land, we puttem <u>in</u> the ambulance. Air force jet lands, we take somebody <u>else</u> off <u>that</u> jet...what the fuck do <u>I</u> care? Somebody in a Hospital gown. And we need a ......hello? Hello...?
Cause I don't think <u>this</u> dog is gonna hunt....
He's going to be fine, aren't you boy...?
Yeah, well, perhaps... Speaking of which: I have a <u>prescription</u> here, I'm going to give you the <u>number</u>, I need you standing by with a <u>crate</u> of the stuff.... it's ... what is it?
An antipsychotic...
It's an antipsychotic, the num... the number...hello...hello...
Mmm.
What <u>kind</u> of stuff? Hello...?
...what happened...?
I think we were experiencing a Little Technical Difficulty.
How's our friend?
What the hell do <u>we</u> care?
Eh? I'm like the Rest of America. I don't <u>care</u>  I'm just <u>addicted to it</u>...
Wake up.
Is he dead?
No, I didn't think so.
Leav't alone. Wha'd television ever do to you? Ate your <u>life</u>, ruin'd your <u>Culture</u>, but...
Y'know what else bothers me? "Shh lil baby, don' saya word, papa's gon buy you a mocking bird..." The baby don'say a word, WHAT THE FUCK IS THE MOTHERFUCKING MOCKING BIRD GONE SAY? You follow me...?
Get on your feet, boy.
Uh huh...why?
We're going home. We're going home together...
We have no home. We're vagrants. N'each man's hand's against us. We killed Old Shoe... We killed the Schuster...spend our life in a packingcrate...Where are you <u>going</u>...?
Come on, Pal, come on Willie, come on, Old Shoe...
I'm tired.
Finish Strong! Are you <u>nuts</u>? Are you nuts? This's Pennies from <u>Heaven</u>... on his triumphal return home, Old Shoe, his Plane Forced Down...AND YET...
He's supposed to be flying in from Europe.
We'll deal with that when we come to it. <u>This</u> is producing. <u>This</u> is what they pay off on...come on, Pal, Boots and Saddles...
You can't tell this story.
Why not?
Some'b'y'll have you killed.
Ha ha. No, no, not <u>now</u>, not <u>now</u>, of course, But Someday... when they tell <u>this</u> story...
You would be, two, if you'd gone through what he went through.
He raped a <u>Nun</u>...
What he went through in <u>Albania</u>...
He's doped to the <u>Gills</u> ...
No, I'm On Top of it...
"...unsure whether or not Enemy Action..."
No, I'm fine... I got it together....
...but...
You got a dime....?
Pals: Get on the <u>phone</u>... r'they flying it?
They'll be here in ten minutes.
Get on the phone, have'em fly in a ...whaddaya need to be a citizen? A Judge? Whaddaya need? A Judge...? Call in a <u>Judge</u>, call in a Federal <u>Judge</u>, and... If you're concerned about him, being an ..."immigrant." Make him a <u>citizen</u>... Eh? <u>Guys</u> ... what's all this <u>mopery</u>, we...
Hell of a show. Hell of a job, Stan.
...one more day.
Naw, naw, we own the airways...
You see? What's the lesson here? <u>Never</u> give up. <u>Never</u> give up.
No. You're right.
Show Must Go On.
A proud tradition.
Prouder of this, than anything I ever did in my life. I want to thank you, Ron. Want to thank you.
What're you doing?
I'm looking for a phone...
No, I don't think you can <u>do</u> that.
Watch me.
No, I don't think you can <u>do</u> that, Stanley...
Watch me.
Stanley. Stanley... you knew the... Stanley. You knew the deal when you signed <u>on</u>.
Deal's changed.
No, the deal <u>isn't</u> changed. The Deal <u>isn't</u> changed. You can't ... what is it? Money? <u>Money</u>? You want Money?
<u>Money</u>? You think I did this for money...? I did this for <u>Credit</u>. <u>Credit</u>, paalll...
But you always knew you couldn't <u>take</u> the credit....
That's <u>one</u> thing, but I'm not gonna let two dickheads from <u>Filmschool</u> take it... are you <u>Nuts</u>? Are you <u>Nuts</u>?
China.
When's he coming back...?
Touchdown, Andrews, fourteen hundred, today.
Alright, now, here: he stays on the ground in China til Tomorrow.
Trade Re1ations.
You're goddamn right. And it's got nothing to do with the B2 Bomber.
There <u>is</u> no B2 Bomber,
That's what I'm telling you. The two things: the two things: Rare strain of flu, No Cause to Be Alarmed. And the B2 Bomber... Clear me a space. Get me a copy, go rob one, get it off the computer, Wash Post, N.Y. <u>TIMES</u>,
How much...?
And, to hold it together, I need two days. There <u>is</u> no B2 Bomber: here's what you do ahout that: whoever is leaking stuff to that geek at the Post, lets it slip, "Geez, I hope this doesn't screw up the B2 Program..." "What B2 Program, and why should it screw it up?" "If the president moves to deploy the B2 before it is fully tested." "Deploy the B2, <u>Why</u>?" "In the Crisis."
It can be documented that he displayed the...
This ain't the illegal immigrant Nanny.
There was a group of Girlscouts here from Indiana last month. One of them expressed an interest in a Frederick Remington bust. The president took her into the oval Office, for a period...
...why?
...you the Press Office?
...Yes.
Earn your money. ...He's ill, the Plane is sick...
...Good...
What's more interesting than boffing the girlscout?
Well, that's what we're <u>doing</u> here...
Is there a press conference today?
What do <u>you</u> think? What I need from you: I need a base of operations. Some place in the District. I need some clean <u>money</u> ...
But there isn't a B2 bomber.
Where'd you go to school, Kid. Wellesly?
Dartmouth
Then show a little spunk. There <u>Is</u> no B2 Bomber, General Scott, the best of your knowledge, is not in Seattle to talk with Boeing...
Course there's a war. I'm watching it on Television.
N'who might <u>you</u> be, when all's said and done?
My name is Ronald Brean.
Who're you working for?
Nobody whose name you want me to say, Mr. Young, I promise you.
S'all very well, but when the Fit hits the Shan, somebody's going to have to Stay After School, and who do you 'spose that might be.
S'only got to hold for another few days.
Well, I'm not interested in how long its "got to hold for."
What <u>are</u> you interested in?
I'm interested in the Security of My Country, Mr. Brean.
Well, I'm sure that speaks very well of you and for your parents. But if forced to choose between the security of the country and the security of your Job, which would you pick. And, while you hesitate, permit me to suggest that they are one and the same. Your country and your job.
I'm <u>doing</u> my job, Mr. Brean. That's what you see me doing here. What <u>is</u> it you thought <u>you</u> were doing?
What's on your mind?
I have a question for you.
Ask it.
Why do people go to war?
Why do people go to war?
I'll play your silly game.
Why do they go to War?
To preserve their Way of Life.
Would you go to War to do that?
I have.
Well, I have, too. Would you do it <u>again</u>...? In't that why you're here? I guess <u>so</u>. N'if you go to war again, who is it going to be against? Your "ability to fight a Twoocean War" against who? Sweden and <u>Togo</u>? Who you sitting here to Go To War Against? That time has <u>passed</u>. It's <u>passed</u>. It's <u>over</u>. The War of the Future is <u>Nuclear Terrorism</u>. It is and it will be against a Small Group of Dissidents who, unbeknownst, perhaps, to their own <u>governments</u>, have blah blah blah. And to go to <u>that</u> war, you've got to be <u>prepared</u>. You have to be alert, and the <u>public</u> has to be alert. Cause that is the war of the <u>future</u>, and if you're not gearing up, to fight <u>that</u> war, <u>eventually</u> the axe will fall. N'you're gonna be out in the street. And you can call this a "drill," or you can call it "job security," or you can call it anything you like. But I got one for you: you said, "Go to War to protect your Way of Life," well, Chuck, <u>this</u> is your way of life. Innit? And if there ain't no war, you can punch out, go home, and take up Oil Painting. And there <u>ain't</u> no war but ours.
Well, c'n we get him back home?
Could if we had to. Rather not. Rough weather.
We're due at Andrews.
Well, I wouldn't go up in it, lest I had to...
Captain... You wanna Take'er up...?
Heavy weather East of here.
Whaddaya think?
Six to five and pick'em...you wanna <u>chance</u> it...
I gotta get something, I gotta get ...shoes? Ties? Hats...? Good. Good.
...what is this?
Would somebody wake me in five minutes?
Does it <u>have</u> to be Albania? Because, lookit: I can get my hands on a lot of walkingaroundcash, I think, if it's <u>Italy</u>...Look at the tiein here: <u>The</u> <u>Boot</u>, "Givvem the <u>Boot</u>,"... If we were to go Wide with a <u>shoe</u> as the fad. A "Shoefad"... Here's what it offers us...
We're locked into Albania.
Well, let's not be too sure, why is that?
The President is going to declare War against Albania in a half an hour.
Hello...?
Yeah, I need a list, people in Military Special Pro...
Schumann. We're gonna go pick him up tonight.
Where is he?
Out in Oklahoma.
OVER A SLEEPING BREAN, STRETCHED OUT ON A POOLCHAIR, GRACE, THE SECRETARY, COMES OUT ON TO THE POOL AREA, HOLDING THE SHOT OF A SMALL, FOREIGN LOOKING CHILD, IN FRONT OF A PILE OF RUBBLE. SHE SHOWS IT TO MOSS.
...we own it?
But, you know, <u>this</u> is the meeting, Ron? You think about it. <u>This</u> is the meeting. This, here. Schumann and us. King Kong and the Trainers...this's it... What are you working on?
ON BREAN, WHO IS DOODLING.
THE CROWDS AT ANDREW'S AIRKORCE BASE, THE "OLD SHOE" BANNERS, THE "COURAGE, MOM," BANNERS. THE STILL BAND. A SHOT OF THE BANDMASTER, SURREPTITIOUSLY, GLANCING AT HIS WATCH.
How's our friend? What is he, "dead?"
This is nothing. ...piece of cake. Y'know, producing is being a Samurai Warrior. They pay you, day in, day out, for Years, so that, ONE DAY, when <u>called</u> upon, you can respond, your training At Its Peak, and save the day.
BREAN, SHAKING HIS HEAD. IN THE B.G., MOSS, DRINKING. THE TV COMES TO LIFE.
ON BREAN AND MOSS, WHO WALK SCHUMANN ACROSS THE HIGHWAY. IN THE B.G. WE SEE AMES TALKING TO THE DRIVER OF THE HARVESTER, WHO IS A SMALL, HISPANIC MAN.
..."down safely," crew perished in the Crash....
ON MOSS, AS HE WALKS THE GROGGY SCHUMANN TOWARD THE GAS STATION.
...how ya feeling, boy?
ON THE GAS STATION OWNER, WHO HAS RETREATED TO HIS COUNTER AND PRODUCES A SHOTGUN, AND STARTS TO LOAD IT.
Shoe, boy...? You know, you were telling me you wanted Beans? Remember, you were concerned about the Beans...?
The threat of Nuc1ear Terrorism has been quelled. We are in <u>contaot</u> with the Albanian Premier, who assures me, and this government <u>credits</u> his assurances, that his country does not wish us ill, and <u>has</u> not. That the threat which we perceived was not of his wish, or of his making.
CAIN, MOUTHING ALONG, WITH THE SPEECH, SHE LOOKS DOWN, AND WE SEE WRITTEN, ON HER COPY. of his making
AS WE LOOK UP, WE SEE THE PRESIDENT BITING HIS LIP, AND CONTINUING WITH THE SPEECH.
From whence did it come? Our information states it came from a small group of armed, dissidents. Of Armed and Violent Dissidents...
ON CAIN, AS SHE LOOKS AROUND.
But that group has been, in the main, subdued. Now: How did we come by this information? And. Who subdued that group?
CAIN LOOKS DOWN AT HER SCRIPT. SHRUGS, AND LOOKS UP.
ON THE PRESSCORP, THE REPORTERS, LISTENING WIDEMOUTHED, TO THE PRESIDENT'S SPEECH.
It falls to me to <u>reveal</u> to you a <u>secret</u>. To reveal the existence of a secret group of warriors. Men, yes, and <u>women</u>, trained and pledged their <u>strength</u>, their <u>skills</u>, and, if called upon, their <u>lives</u>, in the service of their fellow Americans. A group so secret, its very existence has been known to just a few, and known not by a Name, but by a Designation Number, ThreeOhThree...
...member of the group, was left behind what were, then, Enemy Lines.
ON LIZ, AS SHE WALKS THROUGH THE H.Q., ON A BOARD WE SEE "DAYS TILL ELECTION 6" AND % IN FAVOR 82%. A HUGE TV SHOWS THE PRESIDENT.
And I can only say, to those family members, <u>of</u> group 303, which members are, I know, as I speak, gathering to comfort you, the parents of the missing man, I can only say,
THE PRESIDENT, HOLDING THE PHOTOGRAPH
Dashes and Dots. And those dots spell out a message in the Morse Code. And that message is, "Courage, Mom..." And he got the message through. "Courage. Mom..." Well, to the Family of William A. Schumann, to the Men and Women of Unit 303, to my fellow citizens <u>I</u> say "courage." I have informed the Albanian government, and I inform <u>you</u>, that we will not rest until the safe return of Sergeant Schwn&nn. I'm told his unit mates gave him the nickname, "Old Shoe." Ladies and Gentleman, we will not <u>treat</u> him like an Old Shoe, we...
YOUNG PERSON'S APARTMENT, NIGHT.
...we will <u>not</u> be swayed, will, will not be <u>swayed</u> from <u>Every</u> effort to find <u>our</u> Old Shoe, our...
THE PLANE, IN A VIOLENT RAINSTORM, BUCKING WILDLY. AMES, ON HIS KNEES, GATHERING UP THE PILLS, REPLACES THEM IN THE VIAL, SHAKES OUT TWO, AND GIVES THEM TO SCHUMANN. WHO TAKES THEM. MOSS THEN STRAPS HIMSELF BACK IN AND BREAN CONTINUES TALKING ON THE TELEPHONE.
You gonna git me back tomorrow? Cause they havin <u>beans</u> tomorrow...
"...where's my pill..."
THE GROUP WATCHING TELEVISION.
ON SCHUMANN, WHO HAS CONE TO THE BACK OF THE COUNTER, AND IS EMPTYING THE CANNISTERS.
Where's my pill...?
...where is my pill?
ON THE MEN, IN THE ROOM, ARGUING ABOUT THE ILLEGAL ALIEN, SCHUMANN IN THE B.G.
WHERE'S MY FUCKING <u>PIIIILLLLLLL</u>...?
Oh, MiGod.
Guess who <u>I</u> am.
I'd like to mention a few <u>names</u>, who...
I know who you are, Mr. Ames.
I was acting as a Private Citizen. Nothing that I've done should be construed as reflecting on the orders or intentions of anyone with whom you may have reason to believe I am connected with. Or in whose <u>employ</u>...
Quite touching.
And I take this <u>opportunity</u> to suggest that, equally, I admit to <u>nothing</u>, and that I would like my lawyer present.
Guess what? We show, and N.S.A. confirms, there <u>are</u> no nuclear devices on the Canadian border. There are no nuclear devices in Albania. Z'at put us in something of a pickle? Albania <u>has</u> no nuclear capacity. Our spy satellites show "no secret terrorist camps" in The Albanian Hinterland. The F.B.I. and the Border Patrol, And the R.C.M.P. report no repeat no untoward activity along our picturesque Canadian Border. The Albanian Government is screaming its innocence, the world is listening. There is no War.
As are we all, and I'd like to take this opportunity to suggest that the Security of the country would be ill served by any, any...any...
Any untoward "revelation" regarding, uh...
And I think that the Security of the Country would be bestserved by its citizens obeying its laws. Gemme a Federal Judge, gemme searchwarrants, all premises controlled by our friends, and benchwarrants for the two of...
Who we got here...?
John Levy, Staff, and Amy Cain, Press Off....
Alright. Look here, any of you kids hear in this room: what you hear here, what you say here, what you <u>do</u> here, f'it got out, you leaked it. Tell'em what they need to know.
When it broke, he said one word: get me Ronnie Brean.
Well. Alright. What is it? What's, he, uh...? He had an Illegal Immigrant, was his Gardener, some years back...? What's the thing? You people get ahead, you sure get nervous.
Three minutes. It couldn't have been over three minutes, the Secret Service...
Okay. And she's alleging...?
We are virtually certain it isn't...
Who's got the story?
Don't you want to know if it's true?
What difference does it make if it's true? It's a <u>story</u>, and, it <u>breaks</u> they're gonna have to <u>run</u> with it  How long've we got til it breaks?
Front page. Washington Post. Tomorrow.
Well, yeah. Now. That's not good. <u>Okay</u>: <u>Okay</u>. We'll set up the War Room <u>Here</u>...
When do we bring'em back?
You gotta give me a day. I need a day. He's sick, get it out <u>now</u>. Get him on the phone'n tell him how sick he is. We got to get it out before the story breaks, so we aren't quote, responding to it. Issue is as a bulletin. He's got some rare strain of...
It won't hold.
All I need is the one day.
It won't even hold the one day, Ronnie 
Yes  It will... Now: why is the President in China?
We're going to have to explain away the...
They caught him in the closet with a Girlscout. Side effects of a pill ain't gone trump that. You have to keep'em guessing for Two weeks. You don't have to Cure Cancer, Pal, you just have to give them something more interesting than...
Car and a driver, Mr. Brean, the Westgate, Now, please...
Okay, look, who's takin' the press conference today?
What crisis?
I'm working on it. Same time, you call Billy Scott at Joint Chiefs, and pour him onna plane <u>right now</u> to Seattle, y'got that...? All flustered and worried. To talk to the <u>Boeing</u> people.
<u>Do</u> it...
And you?
It won't hold.
One day, Two days? <u>Course</u> it's gonna hhhh....
It won't hold, Ronnie, it won't prove out.
We don't need it to prove out. We need it to <u>distract</u> them for two weeks til the election.
What would do that...?
What in the <u>world</u> would do that?
I'm working on it.
Gimme twenty thousand dollars.
I'll be back within the hour. Now,
It's going to be fine. It's going to be ... you remember in 88, when...
What is it?
It's the roughcut, the other side's new commercial.
Twenty thousand dollars.
Yeah, I'm gonna have to go to L.A.
Gemme a plane. Business Aviation, National, one hour. Fly to Chicago. O'hare, LAX 6 A.M.
I'll see you at National.
Tell, tell, tell me again.
....we landing?
Tell me again.
Lookit, don't worry about it. It's not a New Concept. Wake me when we touch down, will...
We can't <u>afford</u> a war.
We aren't going to have a war. We're going to have the "appearance" of a war.
I'm not sure we can afford to have the "appearance" of a war.
What's it gonna cost?
But, but, but, "they" would find out.
Who would find out?
...the...
The American "people"?
Yes
Who's gonna tell'em.
...but...
What did they find out about the Gulf War? One shot: one bomb, falling though the roof, building coulda been made of <u>Legos</u>.
...you want us to go to War...
...that's the general idea.
Why?
Why <u>not</u>, what've they ever done for <u>us</u>...? Also: they sound... Ah, you see, this is why we have to mobilize the B2 <u>Bomber</u>...
...they sound what?
<u>Shifty</u>. Who knows anything <u>about</u> em...
Hold on, hold on, hold on:
Well, I'm gonna hold on, but you went to win this election, you better change the subject. You wanna change this subject, you better have a War. What do you need? It's gotta be <u>quick</u>, it's gotta be <u>dramatic</u>, you got to have an <u>enemy</u>. Okay? What do you need in an enemy? Somebody you fear. Who do you fear? Som'b'y you don't know.
<u>Who</u>?
Well, I'm <u>working</u> on it....
Yes.
Why?
What do you know about them?
...<u>nothing</u>...
Precisely.
What did Albania ever do to us?
What did they ever do <u>for</u> us...? You see, this is why we have to mobilize the B2 Bomber.
...you want us to go to War with Albania.
Here's what you got to do: Get your Press Office, Right now. To deny; There <u>is</u> no report of Albanian Activity. They have to deny it. Now, get the C.I.A.
...where is the Back End coming from?
It's like that thing with the Yellow Ribbon...
The thing with the Yellow Ribbon...
The Hostages...?
The hostages, but that was a naturallyoccuring... It was a putup job? But where was the, where was the money in that?
In the yellow ribbon.
...the Yellow Ribbon, but who, who'd profit from <u>that</u>...
The Ribbon Manufacturers.
...can we see the Kitten...?
<u>Hello</u>... Yes. We'll be back...?
We'll be back tonight.
Tonight. Well, you've started a Tempest in a Teapot.
Waal, that's where you <u>want</u> em...
...I just hope...
Why is this putz on the air...
... they're checking the ratings...uh...
...hell of a price for the country to pay.
...take a long view.
...what's the Long View?
Your guy gets four more years in Washington... ...it's only Nine More Days.
Yes. That's true. But...
Wilfred. We've got <u>work</u> to do...
New York Times, Wash Post, Detroit Register, San Diego BEE, all in emission. <u>No</u> mention of the Girlscout. None.
Eight Days To Go
I <u>live</u> for midnight, when I can tear another of those suckers off. Watcha got for me?
Big Bird touches down <u>when</u>?
We're bring'n im in tomorrow, five AM.
Anything at the Airport?
Press thought "no," whaddaya think...?
<u>I</u> think, here's what I think: S'it gonna rain...?
Gimme the weather for tomorrow morning, five A.M. Andrews...
An <u>Albanian</u>, a young Albanian Girl.
No rain.
A young Albanian Girl, dressed in their...
And carrying. The National Flower of Albania, something..... Now Is it some Festival? Some <u>Harvest</u> Festival, something...
Get on this, right now...
...got to be <u>something</u>. She gives him the sacred... And tells him: this is the Traditional Harvest Offering, given to the Man who Ties the First Sheaf, the last sheaf, whatever the fuck it is...
...this's <u>good</u>...
Stanley Moss, Ladeesngennlmen... And she says...
Is she saying this in Albanian...?
<u>Yes</u>: she is saying this in Albanian, <u>but</u> she's doing it not to be uh... But because, she explains, that is the only way it can be understood by her Aged and Sainted Mother, who is standing there with her, dressed in her Traditional...
Our adopted land...
...but to the Old World; you are stilling the forces of hatred and of War which have, since I was a child...
...uh huh...
Now, the Old Lady starts to <u>Weep</u>, Big Bird shrugs off his secret <u>Service</u>, goes to her, and covers her with his own coat.
Find out is there <u>any</u> chance we can get some rain tomorrow, <u>will</u> you...?
<u>So</u> forth...
Catching up on his reading. Asked about you, sends his thanks.
Knock on wood.
Speaking of thanks... we puttem back in, what does your fellow Moss want?
<u>I</u> dunno.... Ambassador to <u>Togo</u>, somethin', <u>I</u> dunno... he...
Maybe he's just a <u>patriot</u>.
Yeah...what was I talking about...?
How long you been up, you need a nap.
Due in Nashville.
<u>Nashville</u>...?
We're gonna do the <u>Team Song</u>.
You're tired, Ronnie.
Y'wanna follow the Cattle Drive? Sleep in the Winter. What does <u>Moss</u> want...? Matchmaker comes to the Levinsky Family. Mr. Levinsky, Mrs. Levinsky, would you entertain an offer of marriage for your son Saul, from Princess Margaret of Great Britain. Well, they think, she isn't Jewish, but she's well todo, a nice old family. Alright, yes, they say. We would consider such an offer. Wonderful, matchmaker says, My Job is Half Done. Now, Look: I got the <u>file</u>, from the L.A. contingent, I got the daybyday, of how...
...this is magnificent.
...Stanley Moss...
8 days and we bring it back home....
None of these are ours. <u>None</u> of em are ours.... ....that's <u>real politik</u>, Buddy.
Waal, I gotta tell you. I've been inside the Beltway fourteen years, and I feel like I Just Got My Feet Wet.
...I just missed my plane.
You missed your <u>plane</u>? My <u>life</u> is over. My <u>life</u> is over. What have you <u>done</u> to me? What have I done? Fourteen years of Public Service...
Well, keep your <u>wits</u> about you, and let's see if we can't...
...fourteen years...
...brazenitthrough...
Brazen it through? Brazen it <u>through</u>? They're going to hang us out to dry like the <u>laundry</u>  do you know what we've <u>ddd</u>...
And I'd like to point out that I've been on prescription <u>medication</u>, the sideeffects of which...
I'm doing my job, Too. Would you give me a... do you think you could call off your Dogs for a minute.
No. I was busy. Yes, I need the new poll fig.... <u>how</u> long? I'll call in from Nashville. And patch me through to the Big Bird, will...? I've got to <u>hand</u> it to you. <u>They</u> sure let us out of there easy....
...they just hadn't thought it through...
He just got Hip to us. He just ended the War.
What are we gonna <u>do</u> about it...?
What are we going to do?
The War is Over.
Oh, God...
Yep. Well, we started it, he Ended it...
Oh, Lord....
...those limpdick ... <u>turncoat</u>... I <u>thought</u> they let us out of there too easy.....
War's over, Pal.
Gloria  sell the House.
He thinks it's too...
First of all, we're locked <u>in</u> to it, <u>secondly</u>:
Ronnie says we don't need'em for another four days. ...s'there a problem?
No. No...Pentagon says, Army's got'em, they got'm in ..."Custody"...
How's your wife?
Fine.
Pride of a jobwelldone...
It's the Pride of a Job Well Done, Stanley, yes, but it's <u>more</u> than that.
That's not bad at all.
Well, you know, "The Whole Thing's Theatre..."
Napoleon said, fellow won't sell you his life, but he will trade it to you for a little piece of ribbon.
...child at the airport... breaks through the ranks, runs to "old shoe"  should we have <u>flower</u> or a <u>bear</u>...?
Uh...Didn't we <u>do</u> this?
Never quit a winner.
Wilfred.
...what have you <u>done</u> to me...
All Combat takes place at night, in the Rain, and at the Junction of four Map Segments...
...what are we going to do...?
Give'em another pill...
No. No. He didn't mean anything by it at <u>all</u>...
Hello? No, operator...
Courage, Mom.
Oh. Hell. And what do we do now? What do we do <u>now</u>? Boy Producer? Mister WinanEmmy, Social Conscience, <u>Whaleshit</u>, save therainforest, Liberal hireaconvict <u>shithead</u>? Mister AffirmativeAction Peacnik. Commie... <u>shithead</u>....?
... and he spent the last twelve years in a Milit&ry Prison...
How do we explain <u>that</u>?
What about him?
Well, he doesn't have his Green Card. He Doesn't have his Greencard.
... you want Schumann saved by an Illegal Alien...?
Well, what do you want to do about it? What do you...
Stanley, you can't do this....
Could we have you in here, please...7
Waal, Mr. Moss, I wouldn't....
You wouldn't be here if it wasn't true. It's true, right?
Alright, well, alright: geopolitically...
We've just found out They Have the Bomb. We've Just Found Out They Have The <u>Bomb</u>, aaaand... No, No wait a second, no, no, wait a second, No. The Bomb's not... it's not <u>there</u>  because they'd have to have a rocket and that shit n'they're a buncha wogs it's ... it's a <u>suitcase</u> Bomb. Ooookay. It's a <u>suitcase</u> bomb, and it's .... in Canada! Eh? Albanian Terrorists have placed a suitcase Bomb in Canada, in an attempt to infiltrate the bomb into the USA.
You know what? This is good. This is terrific, and I'll tell you why: it's <u>cost effective</u>. This is....
It's <u>producing</u>.
No, this is great.
I could tell you stories: Cecil B. Demille: Alright? The Greatest Show on Earth: He needs an elephant,
Ames here. <u>Yessir</u>...
Okay. Okay. The <u>Suitcase</u> Bomb...
The <u>thinking</u> is, as of this moment, <u>Terrorism</u>... ...they're getting a Good Reaction on the "Albania" thing...
Hello, <u>King</u>. How the heck <u>are</u> you...? <u>Get</u> out... <u>Get</u> out... Well, man, you fall in love like a <u>Hillbilly</u>... Ditch the wife, toss the kids in the Pickup, Listen, King: <u>Get</u> your fat redneck ass out here, <u>willya</u>...
...but the President wonders about the Possible Albanian Backlash...
Y'see, <u>this</u> is what Producing is: you put me in a <u>Room</u>...
...and he's got a <u>negative</u> rating of...
King, we've got to be on the streets in...
NY Times, Washington Post, War, War, War. Times got the girlscout page twelve, Post in Section Two.... Horses in MidStream...?
I don't think you're gonna need it.
Well, we paid for it, we got the guys on a retainer.
They got the guys on a <u>retainer</u>, it's cheaper, <u>pay</u>'em, but don't lettem touch it... Let'em leave us alone.
What can it hurt.
What can it hurt is they offend me.
Okay. Here's what we're gonna do.
I need a little bit of <u>help</u>...?
Miss, we are going to ask you to sign this little sheet of <u>paper</u>...
And...she's not an Illegal Immigrant? Is she? Can I see her "chart?" Because...
Gonna be fine. Gonna be fine, people? Are we getting there...?
A small, "calico" kitten, sir. "Calico."
...can we have a white one...?
Can we have a white one, please...
A new <u>take</u> on the... Well, sir, we're coming back, we'd like you to try it out, this evening...
Listen to what I've ... listen to... does anybody know Morse Code?
...this is a snappy song....
What'd ya think?
Hey, hey, I'm just the Producer, I'm just the <u>Stationmaster</u>, Johnny Green wrote that song, and...
All we have to do now is sell it to the President.
Mr. President, this is St...
Hi, How are ya? <u>Listen</u> to this, willya...
...mmm?
It's the gratitude of your <u>party</u>, and of your <u>President</u>...
Izzat the thing...
Indeed it is.
...The Albanian Campaign...
...like the <u>sound</u> of it, eh...
We've got to put that, into the Inaugural. "I have here, a ribbon. You haven't seen it before, and you will not see it too often <u>now</u>. For it is the Proud Possession of a few, a very few Men and Women... it is the Ribbon of the Albanian Campaign...."
Wilfred, that's not bad.
He, uh, has he been in the "jail" long?
...twelve years.
Much more...uh, he have much more time to "serve?"
Yeeaahhh... Ohmigod ... ohmigod... ohmigod...
...and...
And? NO. I don't wanna know. What do you <u>mean</u> "and..."?
Look, look, look.... He's fine, as long as he has his medication.
What happens if he doesn't have his medication?
He's not fine.
Well, get on the phone, and <u>get</u> it...
You know, I think you people are looking at this All Wrong. If you look at the <u>backstory</u>  the guy's coming back from Combat and Torture. Of <u>course</u> he is gonna be ... uh ... uh ... "fucked up". Of <u>Course</u> he's gonna "need a little help"...
Oh, Lord....
<u>IT DESTROYED THE ELECTORAL PROCESS</u>.
Come on.
...where?
Come on.
...his Triumphal Plane. Shot Down.
Shot down, Forced down... You guys are <u>missing</u> it... You're missing the <u>opportunity</u>
You can't tell this story. He's not kidding you. You can't tell this story. <u>You</u> knew that. The pay off was, you get to be Ambassador, or...
No, no, no...
...how do we Explain That? Hey? Am I worried...?
...how do we explain that? With the World Watching.
<u>Fuck</u> the world. Try a ten A.M. <u>pitch</u> meeting, no sleep, cokedtothegills, and you haven't even read the <u>material</u>.
But how do we explain the fact he was in prison?
How do we explain that? Ah, well, you see, Wilfred, this is where you've never been at a <u>pitch</u>. You see? His <u>records</u> say he was in prison ... as they must, as <u>all</u> the records of Group 303 have the men and the women, carried on their roster, as belonging somewhere else, the <u>secrecy</u> required of....
I'm concerned about the driver of the rig.
What rig?
...the Harvester...
Naa, fuck this, this is nothing. Oh, Lord  this just got <u>Big</u>. I see it  <u>Big</u>  Big for <u>you</u> and big for <u>me</u>.
What are you talking about?
You're not <u>thinking</u> right, Pal...
He's <u>dead</u>. He's <u>dead</u>. The Fella Killed Old Shoe.
And <u>what</u> is bigger than a triumphal Homecoming...?
You want some research, flu? Sideeffects of medi....
Naw, we can't play this one catchup. That's how long since you stopped beating the wife. We have to...
...tonight...
You're with him tonight, watching the President's Speech, when the President...
What if he's busy tonight?
<u>Lure</u> him.
What are you saying...
Well, darlin' <u>I</u> ain't your confessor. Tell him you've got some info on the President's sex scandal, it's on your conscience, believe me, he'll drop what he's doing. Okay; <u>Now</u>: Folks, folks, folks, this is a shitty business, and it needs no Ghost Come From the Grave to tell us that. But in Six Days, Lord willing n'Jesus Tarries, I am going to take you beauties into the second term. .....wait til you hear the speech tonight. The 303 Speech... where's the Fad King, by the way...
...on the way in.
When you... What? I'm busy.
It's the White House.
<u>Hello</u>. What?
What about it?
For Schumann.
Well, well, well, well, wait a minute, we got 86 percent. We bring'em back <u>tomorrow</u>, the charts go up, they don't go <u>down</u>...
To the first LETAC engineer to go into production on prototypes.
As long as you keep overpaying me, I'll be the first to go into production on three, and four, as well.
As long as they keep overpaying me, I'll keep overpaying you. ) Just make goddam sure you can have 10 of them ready for deployment around the city by next month.
Mr. Wallace, I could have 10 of them ready by tomorrow.
Do they have to look so...robotic?
At this stage, you either get form or function. You said she wanted function. I gave you function. What are you complaining about?
Where's John?
Performing solo. Enjoying the concert so far?
The symphony of collision...
The only thing I want to hear is your silence.
I must make them very nervous if they let you out of prison. You know, we have so much in common we have such history together I've been thinking we should become friends.
You and me have nothing in common.
Who else do you know who touches the world with synthetic hands?
You...mother...fucker! I'M GOING TO KILL YOU!!!
Now, is that any way to talk to an old buddy? I mean, just because I'm carrying around the joy of killing your family inside me doesn't mean we can't be friends.
GRIMES, YOU'RE DEAD!
I'm sorry, the party you're trying to reach is not answering. Is there anyone else you would like to talk to?
DEAD! YOU HEAR ME?
You really are pathetic, you know that? Mathew Grimes is only one letter in my alphabet. He is nothing compared to me.
I wouldn't pull the trigger if I were you
Why's that?
What C4...was Cox talking about?
Let me put it to you this way... whether I'm here...or whether I'm not...I'm leaving an indelible mark on the world tomorrow night.
Where did you plant the C4?!
What C4...was Cox talking about?
Let me put it to you this way... whether I'm here... or whether I'm not...I'm leaving an indelible mark on the world tomorrow night.
Where did you plant the C4?!
You can't die until you tell me where the C4 is. Where is it?!
My...secret.
It's really too bad you have to miss the Grand Finale.
I thought you liked me being in the audience. Don't you want me to see it?
There you go best seat in the house.
You are going after Mayor Bennett.
Let's just say I'm sending a very clear message to his ReElection Rally...
Aren't you going to watch with me?
I've got some final preparations to take care of Checking his watch, he stops suddenly.
Thankyou, Daryl. You had me going for quite a while there, sport.
What are you talking about?
I really did think I was still in reality. At least, until now. Beam me up, Scotty!
Now, is that any way to talk to an old friend?
BARNES, YOU'RE DEAD!
You actually listen to all those tapes?
No, I just like the effect a tape recorder has on you. How you feeling today?
A little less than yesterday.
In other words, par for the course. How do you feel about the simulation you participated in yesterday?
John died.
I know. I was there. I saw the whole thing. If I was your therapist, I would have advised you against putting yourself back into that kind of situation.
You're not my therapist. You're hear to study me. Face it I'm nothing more than a lab rat to you.
That's not true, Parker.
If I had died yesterday, you'd have already dissected my brain and analyzed it to see if I carry any genetic predisposition toward violence.
What was going through your mind when you killed the busboy?
Not much. He was just a computer program. Nothing more.
You didn't see the expression you had on your face when you pulled the trigger. But I did. You kind of liked it, didn't you? That thrill of going over the edge again. Of taking out an innocent bystander or two, as long as you got the target...
Go to hell.
It was just like before, wasn't it? Wasn't it? But you are making progress. Instead of killing seven people to get the one you're after, this time there was only one other person involved.
Enough!
I need to know what snapped in you. What made you capable of it. You have to make me understand.
I don't have to do anything except survive. And it's taking everything I've got just to do that.
I don't need a babysitter.
What you need is a collar.
Every day for the last five years, I told myself someday I would be out here again. No more bars. No more guards. No more fights just to stay alive. Every day for the last five years, I told myself that lie.
It wasn't a lie.
Every time I said it, it was. I never really thought I was going to make it.
You all right?
Fine. Never felt better in my life. See, I'm a good liar.
You ready for this?
Don't worry. If I can't handle it, I'll just kill everybody.
He was reenacting Charles Manson's LaBianca murders.
Manson didn't kill the first cops to arrive on the scene.
Whoever did this wanted to do Charlie one better to improve upon what was already done.
Charlie? You say that like you're close, personal friends.
I've spent over 50 hours interviewing him. Charlie killed Leno and Rosemary LaBianca because of the ugly way the members of his family had butchered Sharon Tate. After seeing the blood bath on television, he wanted to show them how it should be done. The question is, what does Charlie have to do with Sid 6.7?
I know who would know.
Learn anything from Lindenmeyer's file?
He had a twin brother who was a musical child prodigy who died in an electrical accident at age eight. Lindenmeyer went into an emotional shell until was 17. All he did day and night was play the violin.
What happened when he was 17?
Every music school in the country rejected him and he turned to computers. Stay here.
You've got a problem with me carrying a gun?
Do me one favor if you shoot at anything, make sure I'm nowhere near it.
What are you doing?
Checking my pulse. It's elevated. You enjoy frightening me, don't you?
You've studied me, now I'm studying you. Seems only fair, don't you think?
This Lindenmeyer's a real piece of work.
Maybe after they catch him, you should write a book about him...
I'm surprised you didn't write one about me.
I'm still working on it.
Remember a few years ago when music schools were using a computerized teaching tool that accidently started frying kids' brains?
I've been in prison, remember?
The government must have figured there was no better person to create a psycho than a psycho.
Just like they figured there was no better person to catch one...
I am the demon from the bottomless pit...
... here on earth to create havoc and terror. I am War, I am death. I am destruction. David Berkowitz, 1977.
I am impressed.
For murder, though it have no tongue, will speak with most miraculous organ.
Who said that?
Hamlet. What's David Berkowitz got to do with Sid 6.7?
He's part of the mix. Sid 6.7 is a composite.
Lindenmeyer put increasingly complex combinations of criminal psychological profiles together to develop the ultimate villain.
Creating a whole far more dangerous than the sum of its parts.
But rather than selecting pieces from each individual, he simply let the stronger traits of each individual cannibalize the weaker ones.
This is getting you pumped up, isn't it? This is like the World Series to you.
As a matter of fact, it is.
Remember the bowling ball bag Sid carried with him in virtual reality?
Dahmer carried the head of one of his victims in a bowling bag for over a week. Kept it in his locker while he was at work in a candy factory. We need to get a look at Sid 6.7's final profile.
What we need to do is stop playing with computers and go catch the sonofabitch before he kills anybody else.
In order to find him, we have to understand what makes him tick...
Give me your wrist.
Give me a goddam break. I'm not going to go anywhere alone.
And I'm going to make sure of it. Give me your wrist.
Told you I wasn't going to go anywhere.
How did you get your hand out?
Why didn't you tell me you had a daughter?
I prefer keeping my professional life separate from my personal life.
She's beautiful, you know?
Thankyou. Her name is Karin.
Want to tell me the real reason we stopped at your house?
I told you, it was on the way and I wanted to change clothes.
You should practice lying more often. You're awful at it. Where to?
Sid 6.7 is no longer bound by his programming.
What does that mean?
Now that he's in the real world, there are no longer limitations on his behavior like there were in virtual reality. Sid is going to evolve.
Sounds to me like a welleducated way of saying you have no idea what to do next.
What I do know is that whatever he's becoming, Sid 6.7 is going to be even worse than he was before.
Then all we can do is stay mobile and alert. He's got to make a move sometime, and we've got to be ready when he does. Welcome to police work. You better like coffee.
I forgot what real coffee tastes like...
You know, considering you've only been out of prison for seven hours, you're readapting quite well. Wait, I didn't mean that the way it sounded. I meant...
Don't worry about it, all right?
Dammit, I hate sounding so clinical all the time. All I meant to say was I thought you were doing well, but then I...
Relax. I know what you meant.
I ruin so many moments by analyzing them when I should just be living them.
Then why don't you start practicing and keep your mouth shut for a while?
Don't get out of the car.
Stop me.
What the hell's going on?!
This is my area of expertise.
What did you do to those people?
Nothing.
Being on the street's a little different than sitting in an office all day, isn't it?
Enjoying yourself?
You know I am.
This isn't a game, Parker!
Tell him.
What's the problem?
I'm doing the best I can!
Whatever he was doing here was only the start.
Start of what?
I don't know, yet. What we do know is his performances are increasing in scale, not decreasing. Whatever it is, he isn't finished...
It's not just Sid 6.7's performances that are increasing. Stars need bigger and bigger audiences. Whatever Sid is going to do next, it's going to involve media.
You like baseball?
Real effective security...
You could have just flashed him your badge, you know?
Authority still makes me nervous.
Which way?
Both.
Parker  stop! STOP! Don't make me shoot you
If you're gonna do it, better do it now.
Grimes is back! He's back! He's come back!!!
No! Grimes isn't back. He's only one part of Sid. Sid 6.7 is a hell of a lot worse than Grimes ever was. Get a hold of yourself!
We know you didn't kill those guards.
They're going to fry me for it, anyway.
He didn't know about the neural toxin. I did.
You knew the entire time? Can you give me one good reason why I shouldn't kill you right now?
How did you find out about the toxin?
Sid 6.7 told me after he killed the two guards. He suggested I kill you rather than him.
You're not capable of it.
I pose an unacceptable danger to the public, remember?
I was wrong. And I was wrong not to tell you Grimes was part of Sid. I should have told you. I won't make the same mistake again.
The rally's a little obvious as a target, don't you think?
I told you before, Grimes liked to be obvious.
Sid 6.7 isn't Grimes.
Part of him is.
If we find Sid, Lindenmeyer won't be far behind.
Think he's keeping track of his creation?
That, or living through him...
See something?
I'm not sure...on the bridge...the guy at the payphone...
Nice work.
Thanks.
Find out anything?
A bomb's going off tomorrow night, but I have no idea where.
Can I ask you something?
You mean there's something you haven't asked me?
You've already fulfilled the terms of your pardon. You stopped Sid 6.7 and you've got his module. You're free to go right now. Why are you going to do this?
You don't know?
That's why I'm asking.
Because this painintheass criminal psychology expert has helped me understand what I'm capable of. And what I'm not. And better than anyone else, I am capable of stopping Sid 6.7.
You okay?
...I think so...You?
More or less.
Lindenmeyer?
My guess is dead.
Sid?
I don't know.
Where the hell are you going?
Lindenmeyer never got over wanting to kill kids with more musical than he had...
How's your pulse?
I couldn't tell you.
Then shoot him already.
Duck!
What do we do now?
You won't want to watch. Turn around.
Don't be angry with me, Daryl.
Did you recognize the sonofa bitch who got away?
Should I have?
Think hard  it'll come to you...
All they want to produce around here is mediocrity!
True genius is rarely rewarded within its lifetime.
It was you, wasn't it?
It was me, what?
You amped the neural connectors back up, didn't you? You're the reason the convict died. You're the reason I got fired!
I couldn't just let them make you bring down my degree of difficulty. I'm a tripletwisting, double back flip off the high platform, not a swan dive.
My God...
Which God would that be, the one who created me, or the one who created you? In your world, the Lord giveth, and the Lord taketh away. But in my world, the one who gave me life doesn't have the balls to stop a couple of bureaucratic assholes from taking it away.
What do you expect me to do, put your character module in my pocket and just walk you out of here?
I had something a little different in mind. Instead of just playing Peeping Tom with Reilly, why don't you get him to show you what he's been working on after hours?
She's some of your finest work, Daryl.
All my work is my finest.
You catching my drift?
I think I understand what you have in mind...
SID NO!!!
What do you expect me to do, thank him?
I am beautiful, aren't I?
Of course you are.
How can I ever thankyou for bringing me back to life a second time, Daryl?
Help me get out of here.
Glad to...
You made me a composite of 183 of the most vicious people who ever lived. What do you think I'm doing?
I'm begging you...please don't kill me! Please!
Don't worry. Through me, you will live forever...
I told you this would work.. By setting back the clocks, he has absolutely no idea he's in virtual reality. He still thinks he's in the real world.
What's wrong with Parker?
How should I know?
Show me his physical sensory level.
I wonder how that...
Turn it down!
He's developing a hemisphere imbalance.
Talk so I can understand.
If I don't adjust the level of neural information each side of his brain is receiving, he won't be able to walk when I take him out of VR.
Then fix it.
HEY!!!
Show's over unless I get to see what you've been working on after hours.
I haven't been working on anything.
Do I get to see it or not?
Bastard... Sheila, don't go anywhere. I'll be right back.
Get that fucking thing away from me!
You're...such a wimp.
Watching your VR people Auto Reset gave me the idea.
It's nanotechnology, isn't it? Machines the size of molecules...
Coordinated by polymer neural net.
It feels so.. .real.
It's better than real. It's synthetic flesh. Synthetic blood. Synthetic organs... It's a physiological machine.
This is supposed to be years away.
As far as the public is concerned, it is. The reason you got fired, and I got my second demo into production, is I'm a lot smarter than you. I never give my best stuff away.
How do you kill it?
Separate the character module from the neural net...
... and you get nanodeath. Don't worry, I've got a bunch of other ones.
Amazing. I hate to say it, but it is.
I know. I'm ready to incubate something a little more advanced than a coldblooded reptile. If you want to experience the future, meet me in my office in 15 minutes. And bring the Sheila 3.2 character module with you...
You need a maid.
What I need is a nymphomaniac.
You embarrassed me in front of the highestranking law enforcement official in the country. Do you have any idea how much money you just cost me?
The reason you insisted on testing my system with prisoners is because of the increased risks involved with increased realism.
Of the six prison inmates you've tested all of whom have had at least some military or survival training  only Mr. Barnes is still breathing.
I'm still making adjustments...
You've had a yearandahalf to make all the adjustments you want, Lindenmeyer. ) Elizabeth Deane does not give second chances. Neither do I. You're fired.
I'M WHAT?!
You are to turn over the Sid 6.7 program, and all its documentation, for immediate destruction. Is that understood?
I understand... I understand perfectly.
How does he know who I am?
He hears...everything.
As a matter of fact, I do.
What did Cox pull him out early for?
Barnes used to work for him when he was still a cop in the field, remember?
Don't remind me.
What the hell happened?
Lindenmeyer developed neural connectors that tap directly into the nervous system. If the simulator isn't calibrated properly, experiencing death in this level of VR is like experiencing death within a dream. The experience becomes real.
Simulations are supposed to give participants practice in realistic, dangerous scenarios while protecting them from the risks they are exposed to in the real world.
I was assured the problem was corrected.
It makes me nervous just seeing him in a uniform. I will never forget the first time I saw the photos from the crime scene.
Neither will the public. The media has caught wind of his pardon. Unless Mr. Barnes starts giving me some tangible results, I'm going to put him back in his cage.
I watched your simulation, Mr. Barnes. Very impressive. You know, you're the only one to ever go up against Sid 6.7 who is still alive.
Only because I got pulled out early.
Nobody else ever got anywhere near him. Nobody else... understands him like you do.
Think you can do it?
Not from in here.
This is a full pardon. It authorizes your immediate release.
What happens if I can't catch him?
If Sid 6.7 hasn't killed you, we throw you back in here and you serve out the rest of your sentence.
How do you know I won't run?
Barnes, where the hell have you been?!
Trying to find out where the bomb is. Where the hell have you been?
What did you find out?
Call off the manhunt looking for me. I didn't kill the transport guards.
It's already been called off. Witnesses confirmed you weren't the shooter. Did you find out where the bomb is?
No, but I've confirmed the reelection rally is the target. How much C4 is missing?
Enough to level an entire city block.
If I were you, I'd get every demolition team in the city searching in and around the Biltmore Hotel.
Demolition teams have searched everywhere in and around the hotel. I don't know where...
Sid is smart enough to know you'd check everywhere in the immediate area. Whatever the device is, he's probably got it timed to move into position just before it detonates. Have the demo teams check every subway tunnel, water pipe, gas pipe, and sewer pipe that goes under, over, or into the arena.
You know how much man power you're talking about?
You're the highest law enforcement official in the country. Use the fucking army if you need to.
This better not be a wild goose chase.
Or what, you'll authorize my death a second time today?
Don't forget, convict, if this psycho isn't stopped, you go right back to rotting in a prison cell.
Ms. Deane, you wanted to see me?
We have an emergency situation which requires somebody with expertise in criminal psychology. Under the authority vested in me by the President, I'm giving you temporary reassignment.
What's the assignment?
You're going to put your theories to practice. I'm sending you into the field.
That's also where Mr. Barnes lost his arms to Mathew Grimes' booby trap. What's your point, Dr. Carter?
Letting a lunatic like Parker Barnes loose in the free world is like lighting a fuse. At some point, he will go off  you saw what happened in the simulator. The risk to the public is unacceptably dangerous.
Not if you're with him every step of the way.
The man played judge, jury, and executioner with eight people's lives. He lost control and is capable of doing it again.
I understand the risks involved here. But there is nobody better qualified to go after Sid 6.7 than Barnes. And, there is nobody who knows him better than you. If a situation becomes volatile, you will find a way to quell it. I have complete confidence in you.
... illegal search of Lindenmeyer' s duplex. Eleven civilian vehicles damaged or destroyed. Twentyfour citizen complaints. And the calls are just starting to come in... I forgot what it's like to have you on the streets.
Any sign of Lindenmeyer?
None. He could be hiding, he could be helping Sid, or could be in little pieces on Santa Monica beach. Any idea what Sid's going to do next?
Until we know what new influences are affecting him, we can't be sure.
In other words, we collectively don't know shit.
I should have told him.
Don't blame yourself. In your shoes, I don't think I would have told Parker, either. So do you think Grimes has become the dominant personality?
I'm not sure. My guess is that's what Sid wants us to think.
You think he's smart?
Captain, I'm afraid of how smart Sid 6.7 is. But I'm even more afraid of what's he's becoming.
There is no way Parker killed those guards. No way.
I think we both know who did. What's so urgent?
I need your help
Why didn't anybody tell me?!
I don't set policy. You have the key?
Give me 30 seconds, then flip every switch you can reach.
Got it.
You all right?
Why'd.. .you pull me out?
Donley started experiencing the attack for real. If I hadn't gotten you out, the same thing would have happened to you. You may not believe this, Parker,
What the hell did you have to shoot the busboy for?
He was a computer program for crissake.
You were supposed to act as if everything was real.
Real, my ass. It's an overblown game. Anybody ever catch that fucking psycho?
Before you, nobody else had gotten close enough to Sid 6.7 to take a shot at him. Hell, nobody else had even been able to start tracking him before he got to them first. New scar you making it okay in there?
I'm getting by.
But with the six months off I get for being your guinea pig, I've only got to survive another 17 years, 5 months, and 23 days.
Don't give up, Parker. Not ever.
You know those cheesy Christmas cards of your family under that tree in your back yard you keep sending me every year?
What about them?
Do me a favor keep sending them.
You're wasting your time. I'm not going to play any more of your goddam games.
Parker Barnes, I'd like you to meet Crime Czar Elizabeth Deane.
It's too early in the morning for me to be cordial. You got any coffee?
These were taken inside LETAC an hour ago. Pretty pictures, aren't they?
I've seen worse.
Name was Clyde Reilly. Hardware specialist. LETAC surveillance cameras got a picture of the perp as he left the building.
Jesus Christ. Can you kill it?
If you can catch him.
She's going to help you understand what makes Sid 6.7 tick.
What she's going to do is get in my way.
This is the personnel file on the programmer, Lindenmeyer. There might be something in it you can use.
She wasn't part of the deal, Cox.
Fine you want to stay here?
Officers in Toluca Lake just found an affluent couple...completely gutted. So were the first two cops to arrive on scene.
Their weapons missing?
Sid 6.7 is now armed.
Where's my gun?
Don't worry, they have no idea where you are.
You sonofabitch. How could you let them put the implant in my head? How?
She saved your life, Parker. She didn't have to, but she did.
Then I guess we're even.
When this is over, will you get this goddam thing out of my head?
On my life, I promise you I will.
If you're lying, I'll hunt you down and kill you myself.
My first two pairs of convicts suffered the same fate.
Why wasn't I told?
We don't know how, but Sid 6.7 made himself into an android.
You mean a nanotech synthetic organism.
Whatever.
Recognize this? How would you like your old job back?
Catch him and your record's clean.
This is the newest technology approved for general implementation. It's called a locater implant. Every parolee gets one. We're going to know where you are every second for the rest of your life.
If you try to run, I'll hunt you down and kill you myself.
Yes or no, Mr. Barnes?
There's already a task force out looking for Lindenmeyer. Every other officer in the city will be hunting Sid right along with you.
But only you will know he's not human.
What are they doing in Los Feliz?
Madison lives two blocks from their present location.
Why would they be going there?
I don't know.
I wish we could hear them.
Barnes wouldn't kill two innocent guards.
He would slaughter eight people sitting in a room, but not two prison guards?
Do I need to remind you what happened to his wife? To his daughter? I will stake my reputation that Barnes didn't kill those guards.
You already have staked your reputation. Mayor Bennett and I have been friends a long time. Since Grimes tried to kill him, it doesn't take a rocket scientist to come to the conclusion that Sid 6.7 might go after him, too. Bennett's ReElection Rally is tomorrow night and we already have enough trouble on our hands with one psychotic on the loose. The failsafe online, yet?
) Daryl Lindenmeyer was only here briefly, one semester at most. But he was singularly the most brilliant student I ever had in a classroom. He created programs so beautiful, so lyrical, they were almost like symphonies...
Can you tell us what's on the disc?
) There is one program with approximately 1.3 million lines of programming. It is thoroughly secured, which is not surprising considering Lindenmeyer created it.
In English, please.
I accidently triggered a protection mechanism which erased the entire program.
It was very wellhidden. There was no way to see it until it was too late.
It's not your fault. We appreciate you trying.
Look, I feel bad about this, so I'm going to try to look into the programming of his Maestro teaching tool for you. ) I've had one sitting around for years. Maybe I can learn something that you'll find useful.
You sonofabitch, I'm going to kill you.
Me? What did I do?
I'm sorry, I thought you were somebody else.
I've discovered something about Lindenmeyer'5 Maestro teaching tool I thought you should know... The harm done to the music students who used the device it was not by accident. The machine was designed explicitly for that purpose. Lindenmeyer intended to hurt the kids using it.
Jesus Christ. I know who the dominant personality is. Lindenmeyer.
Hello.
Hello.
Good morning, Rita. How are we today?
Today, a good girl.
Could I trouble you for my glass of milk?
What?
Yes, yes, I saw you!
How did you see me?
From the terrace.
It's very wicked to spy. Why did you do it?
I'm going to the hen house. Are you coming with me?
No, I don't want to.
Welcome, miss. I'm Ramona, Don Jaime's servant.
Ah! Pleased to meet you.
How do you feel?
I have a headache.
That will soon pass. It's nothing.
What happened to me?
You fainted last night after supper. The master and I carried you here.
Have I slept long?
Oh, you slept well; don't worry.
She has the face of an angel. What a pity you can't see her.
Right, let's go. And keep the compliments to yourself. I don't like them.
What about you, Manuel?
I'm only good at making people laugh.
That's all right; we all laugh here, but not at you; I'll see to that.
She looks like a sick marrow!
Don't pay any attention to him. It's very good.
Ask the priest, miss.
That's enough. Go join the others, and don't come back here. And you'll have to control your temper.
Give the little girl to me. Come here, sweetheart. Are you ready?
When you are, miss.
Good, then let's go!
Don't talk like that!
I'll talk the way I want to. I've had enough of this.
Would you mind telling me what I did wrong to you to deserve your insults?
I've had a gutful of this.
If you want to stay you'll have to exercise a little selfcontrol, and be a bit more humble to everybody.
Mother?
I've just had a letter from your uncle. He won't be able to come when you take your vows.
All right, Mother.
I hardly know him. I saw him only once, some years ago. I can't even remember him.
In any case he's asking you to come and stay with him.
I don't want to leave the convent, Mother.
I'm afraid that his health is not good. He's your only relative and you ought to say farewell to him before taking your vows. You will certainly never see him again.
But why does he want to see me? He has never bothered about me.
He has paid for your studies and your maintenance, and he has just sent your dowry. Does that mean so little to you, Viridiana?
I have no desire to see the world again, but if you order me to...
The retreat will start soon. You can leave tomorrow morning.
Good morning. You weren't expecting me, were you?
Mother.
Ever since yesterday, when we heard by chance about the tragedy, we have been very anxious for you. Why didn't you write? I would have come immediately.
I had so many things to think about!
A suicide is horrible. I know. But you should have told me.
Is there some grave impediment which prevents you from taking your vows? There must be something.
I have nothing to reproach myself for. All I know is that I've changed. With all my strength, which is not much, I will follow the road that the Lord has shown me. One can also serve outside a convent.
Are you aware of the pride there is in what you're saying?
Forgive me if I have offended you.
You are forgiven. Goodbye.
Have you repaired the windows of the dormitories?
They shut all right now. And the blankets are ready.
What's going on, Moncho?
This louse is looking for trouble.
In you go! Moncho, lead the way! You stay here.
But, miss ...
You have decided to leave, Moncho.
Yes!
I can't do anything to make you stay? These people annoy you, isn't that it?
Why are you crying?
I'm afraid.
Don't invent stories; go to bed.
A black bull came.
A black bull!
It's a very big one.
Very, very?
Yes  very, very big!
He couldn't get through the door, then?
He came in through the cupboard.
You little liar! Get out of here!
I'll box your ears if you don't show some respect for the dead! You mustn't play under this tree.
Don Jaime loved to watch me skip.
How do you do, Miss Viridiana!
Is anything the matter, Mr. Mayor?
You cannot leave ...
Why not?
There's been an accident.
Where?
Come with me.
They're varicose veins, miss, but some days I can't take care of them.
Are you sure it isn't contagious?
They told me it isn't at the hospital.
They're varicose veins. It isn't leprosy.
I'll take him to the doctor tomorrow. Come on now, sit down and go on eating. And you, look after him as if he were a sick brother. Be understanding. Now finish eating and then go to bed. Everyone in bed by eight o'clock!
How are you today?
Things seem to be getting better.
Hold your arm out. You can't hope to be cured quickly. You heard what the doctor said. If it had been seen to in time ...This'll take time. But with the help of God, we'll pull through.
Are your parents alive?
Parents? Nobody cares a damn, what's the use of them!
Don't say that.
Right, I won't say that, but I still think they're no use.
You'll soon find out, you liar!
Stop this!
He's lying through his ass!
It's for people!
Then let him go and he'll follow you.
And let him get run over by somebody else?
He's good at rabbiting and he knows it. When we're in the country, if he doesn't hunt he doesn't get fed.
How much do you want for him?
I wasn't thinking of selling him, but if you want ... I'll leave it to you.
And remember, the less he eats, the better he runs.
What's he called?
Canelo!
Miss Viridiana ...
Are you Jorge?
Jorge, Don Jaime's son, at your service.
I've been expecting you; I got a letter from the lawyer.
Jorge. You frightened me. What's happening to you?
It's about time we spoke to each other, isn't it?
Well... is it so urgent?
If I wait until tomorrow, it'll be the same as yesterday and the day before and all the other days. When you're not with your poor people, you're praying or you disappear, I never see you.
I don't know anything about these things, Jorge ...
But you have a right to let us know what you think.
I'm not interested. Do what you think's best.
What do you know about me?
I know that you used to work with an architect.
And do you know that my mother and I had to suffer? If my father had bothered himself a little more about us, I'd be an architect now.
I don't understand how you can like being alone so much.
I'm not like you, you have your wife.
What are you doing here? Get out.
Leave him alone.
You won't get much done with those people. Those times are over! You ought to let me kick them out.
Do they worry you that much, then?
They worry me a great deal, and especially because of you.
There's no point in helping some of them when there are so many others.
I know perfectly well how little I can do. What I want to do is give passing beggars a roof, some food, and a bit of human warmth.
Is that all you're going to devote your life to?
I'm not sure yet. I've had a shock recently, and I'm only beginning to get over it. Perhaps I'll go back to the convent one day.
Are they going to work here too?
Don't worry. Nobody's going to disturb you.
Don't forget the meeting with the lawyer. The car will pick you up tomorrow morning.
I'll be ready.
Do you intend to stay here for some time?
Yes. Why?
You can come and live again in the big house if you want. Now that I'm alone, I can settle down anywhere.
And ...your friend?
She's left.
Is she coming back?
No.
Why?
He was very good. Better than some people would think.
Why did he kill himself?
I don't know, sir.
One shouldn't be alone the whole time. I'm not like him, am I?
And this chest?
There are some curtains and drapes, but they're all very old.
I don't know; I can't remember. But I'm sure he loved you.
Why?
You wouldn't be here otherwise.
These chairs are in good condition. With a little varnish and some new covers this one will be quite presentable.
I don't know  they've always been there.
That's stupid! Plaster! It can still be used.
Maybe afterwards he'll let me ...
If you free me, you'll be a rich man ...
Me, rich? Come on!
There's plenty of money in this house. Piles of it.
I don't want you to untie me. Kill him and then I'll give you the money.
Where's the dough?
Kill him and I'll tell you. If I don't keep my word, you can kill me too. There are thousands of pesetas. Kill him, idiot!
Kill him.
That will teach you not to bother me any more, you son of a bitch.
Not in that way; you're always looking for company.
Why do you say that? Perhaps the young girl is a bit jealous.
What's the matter with you?
Nothing.
Why the bad temper?
It's Viridiana. She's getting on my nerves.
She's mad.
No, not mad at all: she's rotten with religion.
Let her do what she wants. She doesn't bother us in any way. She minds her business and we ...
So, Ramona!
Run and get something to mop it up with, quickly.
If you wake first, wake me up.
What are you going to do?
What I do every day, but I want to do it earlier.
You're happy, aren't you!
Shouldn't I be? You, on the other hand ...
I'm bored. I'm alone all day and I don't know what to do.
You should have enough to do in this house ... Come here and listen to this.
What are you thinking about?
That your cousin is more to your taste.
She isn't my cousin.
It doesn't make any difference what she is: you like her.
How in hell does it wind up?
I think I'd better go tomorrow.
Don't be a fool! Why rush away from something which couldn't happen?
You see how much you like her?
That's life. Some people are brought together, others are separated. What can we do, if that's the way it happens?
Me?
Come on, miss. Just so the Virgin can be really pretty.
It won't take but a minute. It's a votive offering for a lady who was cured just when she was dying of fever. Our Lady of the Helpless granted her a favor.
Do you have great devotion for the Virgin?
It's very good.
Thank you; but it's missing something.
That doesn't matter; I like it.
My God, what have you done to him!
He was asking for it.
But why? Why?
Ramona! Ramona!
Quiet, my dove. Quiet, or I'll ...
How much is that?
Fifteen yards.
That's fifteen by seven?
That's it.
Good.
Have you thought of what you want planted yet?
The fields have been left so long; with a good manuring anything will grow.
It's for wheat. We've always grown maize in the strip above the vegetables.
And in the vegetable plot?
That's good land.
Hold on, Ramon! Is there time to make another trip?
No, sir, it's nearly six o'clock. Okay, let's get a move on! When are you leaving?
Tonight, but I'll be back tomorrow afternoon.
What will the lady say?
She won't even know.
If everybody agrees, but to make a roast takes four hours.
Is it all right?
Yes.
Enedina's going to take a picture. So we'll have a souvenir.
They told us you'd be back tomorrow ...
I didn't want to do it, Don Jorge. They made me ...
Leave me now. You can go to bed.
Yes, sir. Good night.
Why don't you ask her to stay on for a few days?
I have asked her but she's ungrateful. Sometimes I feel like hitting her. When I talk to her about the convent, she turns to stone.
Sit down, I'm going to need your help.
What's the matter?
Sit down, woman, sit down. You like me, don't you?
I'd be really ungrateful, if I didn't like you, sir; you took me and my little girl in when I didn't know where to turn.
Yes, yes, but there's no need to bring that up. How far are you prepared to help me?
Just say the word, sir, and I'll do anything.
Why don't you speak to her, Ramona? Women are good at that sort of thing. Think of something that will make her stay a few more days. You are kind, Ramona! Speak to her. I know I don't need to offer you anything, but, if you're successful in this, I'll not forget you or your little girl.
But sir, what can I say to her? And why should she pay any attention to what a servant tells her?
The way she looked at me, Ramona! She hates me now. I think I've made a great mistake. She's going away, she's going away and nothing will stop her.
Speak to her again. Explain everything to her seriously.
What for? She'll only look at me that way again ... I couldn't. You go. Perhaps she'll listen to you. Try to convince her.
But what can I say to her, sir?
Tell her I lied, that I didn't take advantage of her.
You believe me, don't you?
Yes, sir.
Don't lie. You don't believe me either.
It's only that ... It's all very odd, sir.
Yes, Uncle. How are you?
I'm well ... The bus was late, wasn't it? ... What was the journey like?
Excellent. What a charming, peaceful place, Uncle.
You'll think you're still at the convent.
How long are you staying?
A very short while, Uncle. I've been given permission to stay only a few days.
Was that difficult to get?
No. Mother Superior told me to come.
Did you have so little interest in seeing me?
To tell you the truth, not very much. I cannot lie. I respect you and I am grateful to you because I owe you everything materially, but otherwise ...
You have no feelings toward ...
No.
You've been neglecting the farm, Uncle.
In twenty years the grass has invaded everything. There are spiders all over the house except on the first floor. I hardly ever go out.
Come down here, you scamp.
Who is she?
My maid Ramona's daughter. She's a little animal.
Come down.
How like your aunt you are, even in your walk.
I know, Uncle, you've told me that already.
You see, even the voice.
I'm going to make you a nun's cake. It will make your mouth water.
You are spoiling me too much. I won't know what to do with myself when you've gone.
Only because you want it.
What do you mean?
Nothing. I didn't say anything.
How did you know about that?
Oh, some years ago I heard my mother talking about it. But is it true?
Yes, it is.
Don't you ever see him?
Never.
How could anybody behave like that?
Sometimes these things happen because of inexperience. Sometimes it's because of...
Evil.
And what do you know about life? When all is said and done you couldn't possibly understand.
His mother wanted to keep him. She came from a poor family. I was in love with your aunt. I would like to have acknowledged him but I was afraid of losing her. That's why I didn't say anything.
And this innocent child.
Don't worry. He won't be forgotten.
You must think I am a monster.
No, but what a pity life is like that.
No, Uncle; ashes mean penance and death.
Then it's penance for you who are going to be a nun; and for me, who am old, it's death ...
If you like, I will come with you tomorrow to the village when you leave.
Thank you, Uncle.
This evening we must do something special by way of a farewell.
Whatever you like.
I should like you to do something for me. It's an innocent sort of thing but I'm very set on it.
Today I can refuse you nothing.
How strange you are! When I asked you to do this favor for me you refused. You seemed almost offended. And now, here you are, making me so very happy all of a sudden. Thank you, my child!
I don't like masquerading, but as you see I decided to give in to your whim.
You must think I'm mad.
No, Uncle, and now I'm pleased to have been able to do this favor, because, although I didn't think so at first, you are really a good man.
If you only knew ... When I was young I was full of idealism. I wanted to do something on a big scale for others, something to show my great love for humanity. But as soon as I tried to do something about it, I became afraid that I would be laughed at and I felt like a fool ... and so I went back into my shell.
Wasn't that cowardice?
No, it isn't that, I can assure you. I wouldn't be afraid in the face of real danger. I've proved that to myself. On the other hand, if a stranger visited me simply to say hello, I'd be alarmed.
Uncle, you mustn't think that I won't be sad to leave you.
It's up to you entirely. Don't leave, then ...
Unfortunately ...
It's my fault. If I'd come to see you more often, if I'd invited you here for holidays, maybe everything would be different.
Maybe ...
Yes, I don't want you ever to leave this house.
You must be out of your mind. I've been so happy these last few days  now you've spoiled it all.
Leave us alone, Ramona.
Don't go!
You're lying.
No, it's true. Last night when you were sleeping, I had you all to myself.
Think about it. Don't hurry. Think it over.
Go away! Leave me alone.
Let me pass!
You must listen to me before you go.
I've listened to you long enough. Let me out.
All that I said just now was a lie. I said it so you wouldn't leave. I only molested you in my thoughts ... I can't bear to have you leave me, hating me like this. Tell me you believe what I'm saying and I'll let you go.
You disgust me... even if what you say is true.
Then you won't forgive me?
So much the better. We'll all fit. How many floors are there?
Two.
Are there many windows?
Lots. It's got balconies and two big towers.
Then it's a respectable house.
When I wasn't so miserable I used to sell pigs. Begging your pardon, I was more honest than my holy Mother.
So you didn't come from the poorhouse!
No, miss. Smoking makes him spit and feel ill.
Smoking makes me feel ill? It's these filthy fag ends. I won't mention in this company what's upsetting you.
They've got a real hen house here! You can't hear yourself speak.
Tell me the answer to this! What bird lays eggs in a barn?
Don Amalio!
What's that?
Enedina and Paco ...
What about them?
They're playing games behind the couch ...
Which couch?
That one.
Take me there.
Really, Don AMALIO, there's not much point in making a fuss.
I'll come to you tonight.
No, the children sleep with me.
Give them to Refugio.
No, I don't want to because they yell. And I've got news for you too.
Then I'll get you in the fields tomorrow ...
Keep quiet. These miserable brats only get in the way.
You'd like me to kill them?
Didn't you say you know how to make vanilla pudding?
Yes, yes.
Stop this, stop this.
Let me go, Don Amalio, I'll tear her apart.
Where's the camera?
It's a present from my parents.
Good times.
Drum banging real times.
She's dead.
It was an accident!
Fucking desert.
Fish, I'm really sorry. I just...I owe you man. Desert.
Right.
That's right.
Shut up Micheal.
I KILLED MY BROTHER!
You see for me it's over. Over baby. I'm gonna turn myself in. After the wedding of course. After the wedding. Out of respect.
I don't think that's a good idea.
I said out of respect. Respect for you Fisher. For you and your wedding and your beautiful bride. There will be no more rain. You see where I am here?
I love it. I just love, love, love, love it.
Are you guys gonna fill this place with kids? You sure got room for them.
We're in no hurry. I think we'll take some time to enjoy each other, enjoy our freedom before we surrender ourselves to kids.
Take your time. I wish I had.
We will.
So where to on the honeymoon?
Smart. Smart. Smart. Think big picture, take your time. I wish I had.
That's our plan.
Well, I just need your signature on these contracts and a deposit check so I can get the ball rolling.
...We will compare these before photos with whatever form of degeneration presented to us in 24 hours, no matter how low, how vile...
...embarrassing, shameful...
...regression of Modern Man to his most primitive, apelike state...
The stone age.
The postVegas Man.
A mutant species.
Okay boys, smile!
We don't say "love, honor and obey" anymore. And we don't say "till death do us part." Today we say, "respect, honor and cherish, as long as you both do love." How does that sound?
I kind of like "till death do us part." I mean, this is forever. In sickness and in health, through good times and bad. Honey, what do you think?
We don't think so. I mean, we just want the singing when I come out.
Okay great. What will that be?
We're just going to have the leader of the band sing alone with his guitar. Acoustic.
What song?
"You Send Me."
Oh I know that. How does it go...
You know, Darling you...you send me...Darling you ...You mend me. Honey, sing it for Judge Tower.
Liz do you take Fisher to be your beloved husband, to respect, honor and cherish him till death do you part?
I do.
That ought to be about the end of that.
Yup.
No...No.
How do you know she's dead.
Boyd...I don't know man...It just seems to me that ever since you took Tony Robbins selfhelp thing...you're all fuckedup in the head.
I got to agree with that.
The first day.
What?
I told her that I have no idea what Adam was talking about in that letter.
Did she believe you?
I have no idea.
You can tell when people believe you. It's obvious.
Well I don't have that skill and if I had to guess I would say that in no way did she believe me.
I'm thinking about maybe making a move.
A move?
Greenpeace.
Greenpeace?
Maybe go up to the North Pole, the Arctic. Tag polar bears with dart guns. I've always had a pretty good aim...
Where's Boyd?
Downstairs in the closet.
He came to me early today, was talking about money, insurance money. Said he was gonna get what was his.
My God...
He said he was the Brain Trust. Said he was smarter than all of us. He started reading "Atlas Shrugged," staring at himself in the mirror.
Did he try to kiss you?
All week long.
You alright?
Yeah. I'm thinking about Micheal's Franco Harris fixation. You know how Micheal was always harping "Immaculate Reception?" I've seen that play. A lot of times...and I have to say this... Franco was lucky. Flat out, right place, right time. That's it. He was where the ball bounced. You get me?
I guess.
I'm saying it's luck. All luck. You work your entire life, all the training, focus, all the dedication, all irrelevant. Where does the ball bounce? My father spent his whole life trying to start a company, practiced every day, worked like a dog, finally got enough money. He's paid the dues, he's ready, does all the market research, picks his shot  "Pup Corn."
Pup corn?
That's right, "Pup Corn." Doggie treats. Little snacks for dogs. He's figured it out. There is a hole in the market and he's going to fill it. Spends all our money, works himself into not two but three heart attacks getting this shit up. After fifteen months, the big day arrives, the first box of "Pup Corn" pops off the belt. He comes running home with that box, pulls us out of school. We all pile into the living room, must be fifty of us, and in comes "Shelmer," our 8 year old mutt. "Here Shelmer," my dad cries. He's got that little fucking pup corn in his hand, "Here girl." This dog will eat anything, she eats rocks, anything. She walk's up to my dad's hand, looks down at the little pellet, licks it once, turns around, walks out of the room. Shelmer rejected the "Pup Corn." Fifteen months of my dad's life, right there. Not one dog ate Pup Corn. Not one. Three months later, "Pup Corn" shuts down. Chapter Eleven. My father never got over it. Never.
There.
Where?
Yeah?
I think there's a lot of truth in that. I'm gonna pursue some options. I want to join that Big Brother thing.
That's a good one.
I want a black one. A little black brother. That's a big problem it seems to me. Lack of racial integration. That's a big one. You think?
I think you'd make an excellent Big Brother.
That's what I'm thinking.
Well that ought to be about the end of that.
Yup.
That's just insecurity.
I don't know. She's really been stressing out.
Just insecurity. Nut crunching gut splinters.
What does that mean?
It means she's insecure.
About what?
Mike Brenn. Yes. Yes. 14.3 at 7.5 for 6. At 29.83 at 9. I'm amazed the windows don't blow out of their fucking sockets with all the repressed, asspuckering rage in these soulless lizards.
I just want her to be happy.
Same alarm clock every morning, same two pops on the same snooze button... Micheal Brenn. Yes...Yes... Hold your horses. Okay. Got it. 6.321 at 17.28 for 6.6 at 9.256 out at 3432.343. Same shower, towel, toothbrush, razor, hair gel. It's a fucking epidemic Fisher and you better start addressing it. You're getting married and I'm not going to candycoat it. It just gets worse. It's an eighteen wheel cement mixer that will crush every bone in your body.
I'm not breathing right.
You're not breathing right?
Lately I'll just start getting lightheaded, dizzy, and I realize I haven't breathed in like two minutes.
I don't care for him.
He's your brother.
So?
I'll take a ride.
Go for it.
Come on.
I'm getting married...
I'm sorry...I'm sorry...I'm sorry...
Dear God...I don't know how to pray.
Just go ahead and say what's on your mind.
Where did you get that?
At the newsstand on 3rd.
Do you hear buzzing Fish?
Buzzing?
Yeah. I got some kind of buzzing. Like a zzzzzzzzzzzzzzzz thing just chipping away in the back of my skull.
I don't hear it.
Yeah, well, it's a nasty problem.
Have another drink.
Dad used to bring home these sparklers to me and Adam. Out back we'd light 'em up. The three of us. We'd hold 'em up to the sky and watch the explosions of light. Sparks. And dad would be all... "Get ready"..."watch for it"..."here it comes," here comes the "wahoo".
The wahoo?
The sparkler would burn hot, then hotter, then even hotter...and there would be one moment of pure burn when that little fucker would cook just perfect. Perfect. It would only last a second, but that second was it. It was it. That's what dad had us looking for...You get me?
The wahoo moment?
That's my point! You see Man...burning at his absolute. To see all the forces just come together, just right, you know, just in perfect harmony. That's what I'm driving at. You get me?
I think so.
I've been looking for that flash and I look and I look and I can't find it. And what if I already had it? You know. My moment? What if it's gone? And I never saw it? You're getting married, man. That's a fucking beautiful thing. Just a beautiful thing. I just can't stop breaking beautiful things.
I appreciate it. I do, but...Maybe you ought to just ease up om yourself a bit.
No. No. No. This is my doing. You see I'm gonna have my wahoo spark for my own. For Lois and the kids, for my brother, for Franco. I'm gonna turn myself in. I am all that. I'm gonna do it for sweet Lois.
If I was to think...If I were to think... No I mean I have thinked it over...I have. And without putting a lot of pressure on you I just...Well I just...
What is it?
Well if you do think about names... Micheal's a pretty good one...It's done me all right.
I wanted to just take this final opportunity to visit with you. You know, just to be with you, father and son, before you run off and do your own husband, daddy thing. I'm just so Goddamn proud of you...God knows I didn't always play it right with you...
You did all right dad.
I could have done it better. I'm a fucking ballbuster I am.
You never walked away dad. You could have walked away.
I'm just so scared of that song. That fucking, "My son just arrived the other day...he says thanks for the ball, come on let's play. I got lots of bills come again next day. He's grown up just like me...My boy is just like me." Gordon fucking Lightfoot, Cat Stevens, whoever, that song just fucking kills me.
Harry Chaplin. "Cats in the Cradle."
Just kills me...
I love you dad.
I love you so much it hurts. Me and your mother marvel at what you have become. You're going to have a wonderful journey with this girl. I feel it deep inside. A wonderful, magical journey. And I'm, like I said, just so proud of how you turned out. You go out and knock 'em dead Keith. Knock'em dead!
Everything okay?
Yeah, Dad. It's great.
Well, I'm in the middle of my Goddamn toast here.
OK, OK. You guys just go back in. Dad, keep going with the toast, we'll be right in. Go on.
This is ridiculous.
Government cutbacks.
Why can't we do it through the mail?
We missed the deadline.
Can't we do it on the phone?
I don't think so.
Why is this Kid staring at me?
I'm not sure.
Did you send in all of the deposit checks?
I think so.
What do you mean, you think so?
I sent a lot of checks, I'm not sure what all of them are.
The wedding cake check?
Sent it.
Photographer?
Sent it.
Florist?
Yup.
Caterer?
Yes.
Hotel for my parents, the tent, the band, the Judge...
I think I forgot the tent.
You forgot the tent?
I think so.
Why?
Why what?
Why did you forget the tent check?
I didn't mean to Liz. I'm sorry.
You can't play around with these tent people.
I'm not playing around. I forgot.
What else have you forgot?
How could I know what else I forgot?
I'm working my ass off here. I've taken care of absolutely everything Keith.
Because you wanted to. You wanted this to be your wedding not your parent's.
Don't you dare.
What?
Don't you put this on me. Don't do it, don't do it, don't do it, don't...
Stop it. I'm sorry.
You know how important this is to my mother. You know that.
I'm sorry. I'm sorry I forgot the tent. I don't think I forgot anything else.
I bet you didn't forget the bachelor party checks.
Are we going to do this again?
I'm just saying I bet those checks all found the mailboxes.
I wouldn't know.
It amazes me how organized you and your little fun bunch can be when it comes time to mobilize to Vegas.
They organized this, not me. I have nothing to do with it.
Well it's bad timing.
How do you figure?
Right before the wedding?
It's a bachelor party. You sort of have to do it before the wedding.
I suppose Boyd is the creative force behind all this.
He is.
He's a moron.
He's my friend. He's not a moron.
David Boyd is a big sack of hot gas.
Why do you feel the need to explore this side of your personality?
What are you talking about?
I'm talking about the kind of people you hang out with...about growing up, assuming responsibility of yourself.
I asked you to marry me. I'm ready for marriage. That's responsibility. That's growth.
I just think that at some point you're going to have to reevaluate some of your friendships...
Who else?
Charles Moore for instants.
You don't like Moore? Since when?
It's not that I don't like him. But the wedding has really got me thinking and... I just keep myself opening up. Crowning. And I want you keeping up with me here.
What does Moore have to do with your growing?
I just don't see him in the big picture.
I've known him since Cub Scouts.
He's weird.
He's quiet.
He's weird.
He just doesn't talk a lot.
Why? What's his problem?
He's a great chef.
He's weird. And I expect more from you.
You expect more what?
You're going to be hungover for three days. Like those guys on "Oprah" that get drunk and have disgusting sex with prostitutes and then say their vows with the stench of cheap hotel whore sex all over them.
Time out.
It's vile!
That's absurd.
I've seen it on television.
I'm not going to marry you with the smell of prostitutes on my body.
I am not common Keith. I am not common. I am a creature like no other and I will not be commoned! Is that to much to ask? Is that to much to ask!?!
You will not be common!!!
Do you love me?
Of course.
How much?
With all my heart.
Kiss me...?
We've got problems here.
Problems?
Seating problems.
Okay.
Keith do not trivialize this.
I'm not. What's the problem?
We're supposed to have goldtrimmed padded seats, now they're telling me that there was a mistake and we can't have padded.
What kind of seats can we have?
Not padded ones.
So what do we do?
You go down there.
Go down where?
Go down to the seat place and straighten this out.
Honey I don't have the time...
I need your help.
We're leaving in three hours.
I need your help.
I'll call them from the road.
Do you love me?
More than I ever imagined being able to love anyone ever.
Take care of those chairs.
We're leaving from Adam's. Come send me off.
Maybe.
Will you please call the chair people?
I will.
Do you love me?
Of course.
Just call and let me know that your okay.
I love you.
Have a nice bachelor party.
Hello.
Hi.
Hi. Are you calling from jail?
Not yet.
Well, the night is young. Did you straighten out the chair situation?
I'm working on it, I've made three calls. I can't stop thinking about how much I love you.
That's sweet.
Well I do.
Well you should.
What are you doing?
Just a bit of organizing.
Nesting?
Yeah. Nesting.
I'm mad at you.
Go have fun. Not too much.
I'll see you tomorrow...
Hello.
Hey. It's me.
Where are you?
We're on our way home. I just...we're running a little late.
How late?
No. Just like an hour or so.
What about the chairs?
Okay.
What okay?
What!
The chairs.
I left a message. I think it's going to be okay.
You sound funny. Did you do cocaine?
No. No. I'll see you in about four hours.
What's the word on the chairs?
I'm working on it.
Then you'd better work on it in the car. We gotta go see the Judge.
"Darli...ing you, ewe ewe ewe, send me, Darli...ing you, ewe ewe ewe, mend me.
"At first I thought it was infatuation ...But oh it's lasted so long..."
This is our honeymoon.
After the wedding, which we're paying for ourselves, and this house...
Yeah baby. Everything's great.
Well, can you come back inside?
Yeah. Sure.
Now?
Yeah. Look honey, I'll be right in. I just...we're just taking care of some Groomsmen last minute business.
Everything's OK. Just some more preparations.
Are they fighting?
No baby. We'll all be right in.
Cancel?! Cancel?! Are you out of your fucking mind?!
Nobody's saying cancel. I'm talking about modifying.
No way.
Can we just talk this out?
Talk what out? We are locked and loaded here. We are nonrefundable. I've got relatives on the airport right now! I've got...
Lois is a mess and Micheal's really upset. Everyone's upset.
We're not canceling.
I know.
I won't even discuss it.
No one's discussing it. I'm just gonna run Micheal home. I'll be right back.
I need you to pick up the cake tomorrow.
Don't we already have someone to do that for us?
Yeah. You.
Okay. Okay.
That means we get five hundred thousand to help raise the kids.
No.
Yes.
It's okay...It's okay baby. Cry for Mama. Cry for Mama.
No it's not okay. It's not.
Cry for Boom Boom. It's okay.
Liz we've got to cancel, we have to put it off.
Don't even.
Do you love me?
What?
Do you love me?
What kind of stupid question is that?
Oh God. We. Liz. We. We. Killed a woman. We...
What are you talking about?
Oh Liz. We. God. We, in Vegas. Micheal crushed her skull. She was dead. There was nothing else to do. It was an accident.
Who's dead?
The prostitute.
You fucked a prostitute?
No Micheal did. It was an accident.
You killed a prostitute.
Micheal, by accident.
Call the police.
It's too late.
My God. You've got to call the police, tell them it was an accident. Where is she?
She's in the desert. She's out in the desert.
You left a dead prostitute out in the desert? Alone?
She's not alone...She's...Boyd...Oh God...He's gone nuts...He killed Lois and Micheal...it's all...
Stop! You stop right here. I don't want to know anymore. I told you not to do this Bachelor Party thing. You were warned.
But...
No buts. I told you your friends were Jackasses.
But...
No buts. I've waited twentyseven years, twentyseven years I have focused and prepared to walk down that aisle. I will not be derailed! I will not be embarrassed! I will not be denied! I am walking down that aisle tomorrow come hell or high fucking water!
I told Boyd two fucking minutes!
What money?
He kept saying he was protected.
What does that mean?
Like if something happened to him, he could still get us.
Like how?
I don't know. He could have told someone. He could have, like in the event of his death, somehow let someone know where those bodies are buried.
The only proof is those bodies.
So what do we do?
Move the bodies.
Move the bodies?
I...Liz...all I ever wanted, was for you to be happy. I just wanted to give you the wedding, the life you always dreamed of... ...I just love you so much...So much...
You and Moore move the bodies and bury Boyd with them. In fact, put Moore in the ground too.
What?
If you don't tie up all the loose ends it'll never be over.
No...
You put him down or don't bother coming back.
But...
Do you love me? DO YOU LOVE ME?!
Yea...It's great...seems like...I don't know you've got all the important stuff in there.
All right then. It's refreshing to see two young people not afraid of real commitment. Will you have friends or family saying words  singing or anything?
Are we supposed to?
It's not a question of supposed to, it's an entirely personal decision... Some do some don't.
May we have the rings please?
What?
The rings?
These rings represent the commitment Fisher and Liz make to each other on the day. Fisher do you take Liz to be your beloved wife, to respect, honor and cherish till death do you part?
I do.
You're a fucking moron.
It's my fucking opinion.
The hell I did!
The hell you didn't!
The hell I did!
You said one in two marriages end in divorce.
I never heard that.
Nope.
Moore?
Your ideas never work out.
Oh really? Starbucks?
I don't hate women.
You hate women.
False.
True.
Not true.
You have a King fantasy.
I am a lover. In Africa, you can stay king as long as you can service your women every night.
And what happens when you can't?
New king.
If I'm the king of Israel, I say to myself, King, I say to myself, King... Take a good look around. What do I see?
Israel doesn't have a King.
Then what do they have?
They have a president. A Benjamin Yahoo something.
I say to myself, look at the map. Look what's all around you. People who wish bad bad things for you and your people. For thousands of years the Jews are fighting everybody. It used to be they'd throw rocks, then the iron revolution and they would attack with spears. Then the gunpowder revolution. Now they're shooting fire power back and forth, all day bullets flying, babies getting shot.
What's your point?
Now if I'm the King of Israel and all these sand niggers are armed to the gills and you know it's just a matter of time ...right? Am I right?
The Israelis can protect themselves. They got the Mossad thing happening. Mossad's for real, man. They scalp babies.
There's my point exactly.
What? What's your point?
Take Mexico.
What?
Lock up the chickens, dig up the holy dirt, pack up the wailing crying wall thing they bang their heads on all day long, stick it all on a big fucking tug boat. The whole country picks up and takes Mexico.
The Mexicans would love it. They're dying for a little order down there. They need direction.
They need leadership.
That's what I'm saying. Let the Israelis straighten it up. They got plenty of room down there, number one. Plus, and this is just a plus, they kind of look alike  the Jews and the Mexicans. So I think on a whole your average Joe Mexican is gonna have less of a problem getting his head around the whole assimilation thing. Am I right?
A little gut check time fellas. A time for some serious selfexploration. How do I function? For real? No more bullshit. Can I keep my cool when they bounce my bananas? When they won't play my fucking song? etc, etc. Do you get me? Do you get me?
Not really, no.
Not a problem. Understand not my words, but follow my orders. Follow my orders.
Oh that's just nothing. That's just a missing persons thing, that's all.
You said nobody would miss her.
No. I said nobody knew she was coming to the hotel.
This is going to stop right now. Right now!
You will not screw this up.
The need to know is clear. What did Adam tell Lois? That's the name of the game. What did Adam tell Lois? What does Lois know?
Ball park sausages.
You want some breakfast meat. Micheal. Is that what you want?
Franco Harris has a flare for the dramatic. The former Pittsburgh Steeler running back, beat known for "The Immaculate Reception," his improbable sixty yard Ricochet Reception. I say Ricochet Reception has made a bold move on corporate America. Harris has lead a group of investors in the purchase of the Park Sausage Company. By taking on the challenge of resurrecting Park's, Harris is engaged in the equivalent of a sudden death overtime.
Easy Micheal.
He must take an openfield run to profitability through excessive debt large competitors and dwindling market share. Before the clock runs out.
We're goosed.
We're not goosed.
We're goosed! Goosed by God!
Micheal get a grip. What did you tell her?
Stop it!
Goosed!
Stop.
Goosed!
Give me the Valium.
Okay Micheal, let's go. Upsy daisy big guy.
How about my Fatburger?
Come on tough guy. Listen to me. You are going to tell Lois that it was all an accident. Okay cowboy? You got me?
I love you.
You said that Boyd.
Well, I didn't mean it.
Tony? This is Keith Fisher. You're doing my wedding and I'm calling about the chair situation. Yeah, I'll hold.
Who's up for making some real money?
Not really. Yes, the Fisher wedding chairs...
Prison Communication Systems. An acquaintance friend of mine is professionally involved with a communications outfit in Denver that I just happen to know for a fact is about to be rewarded a very large, exclusive contract to rewire every state prison in Colorado. Yes sir.
No, I'm holding for Tony. In chairs. Keith Fisher. Okay.
That would translate to government guaranteed contract in excess of 35 million dollars.
We need padded chairs.
Or a stock kick of approximately 125% on shares which are currently sitting around $4.38, or, in plain English...
She's all your's Fish. Anything you want. Happy bachelor party.
I can't.
Oh, Jesus...call the police.
No.
She's dead. Call somebody!
Shut up.
Call 911.
Shut up.
Fuck! Fuck you fucking guys!
Well we can definitely call the police. That's an easy call. If we call the police...What happens? They find a dead prostitute in the bathroom...They ask us...What happened? We say, ah...our friend, Micheal... Your brother...got a little out of control...they were making love...and he got a little excited...and he, ah, sort of beat her head into the side of a toilet, while he choked her to death with a rubber hose...
Oh for Christsake Boyd. Somebody must know she's here.
Nobody knows.
Oh God. This is insane.
What's insane is the fact that Micheal here put a fucking girl's head through a toilet. That's insane.
Nobody knows she's here.
Good God...Good God...
All right people. New plan. Not even a new plan so much as a modification of the old plan.
I'm calling the police.
So help me God you touch that phone and I bury you with them. Surrender is no longer an option. I repeat  It is not an option. Is there anyone who does not understand that?
That is a load of shit. Personal power has nothing to do with any of this. Tony Robbins has helped me to unlock energy and see my options more clearly, yes, but to give him credit for this, for all of this...Well that's just more than the man deserves.
I think we should say some words over the grave.
What kind of words?
I'm talking about prayer.
Go ahead.
Micheal, now is probably not the best time for this.
No, this is the perfect time. This is real time. Adam. Your brother and I, as well as several others present, have always suspected that you... ...are a fully repressed, living in major denial, locked down, flyboy buttfucker.
It goes; "Today is the first day of the rest of our lives."
However it goes, the point is, nobody says anything to anyone ever. Right? ...Right?
Fisher had a less than normal relationship with that Donkey.
You always were a jealous man.
The problem was our quarterback had trouble remembering his right from left...
No, the problem, as I recall, was the lack of blocking...
OK. Definitely not cool! Definitely inappropriate behavior here.
Shut up Boyd.
Negative. This is not what we have worked out in terms of presented behavior.
He's having a problem here.
Easy Boyd.
No easy Boyd! I got a best friend in there in pieces. How about a little sensitivity?
He's cracked up.
He is not cracking up.
Boyd...What have we done?
What did you ask me?
What?
What is the question you asked me?
I said, what have we done?
Yes, you did. Now that is the question! That is exactly the question we should be asking ourselves. You tell me Fisher. What have we done?
I don't know! I just want to get married.
Say it again.
What?
What you just said. Say it again.
I just want to get married.
Exactly! Exactly my point.
What's your point?
You want to know what you are doing here?! You are love pumping. You are protecting all that is sacred and beautiful and in sync with poetry and sunsets and little newborn babies. You are walking the walk. This is it Fisher, the real stuff. You love this woman. Love is second to nothing. I love you. I love Moore. I love Micheal. This car is full of love, and nothing  absolutely nothing  supersedes love, man. Nothing. We will do what it takes. Whatever it takes.
Regarding what?
Does she sound pissed, scared, hostile? Did she mention the police?
No, but she's definitely pissed and hostile. And she's clearly starting to think that's something's not right.
Jesus Boyd you're going to O.D. him.
Suck my ass.
After you drop the kids off, take Micheal home. Put a few drinks in him so he'll sleep.
I don't think that's such a good idea.
Just do it.
What are you going to do?
Take care of business.
What does that mean?
And what does that mean? Are you insane?! You think I would hurt Lois?! She's the mother of those kids! What is wrong with you?
I don't know...
You got a nasty side to your thought process.
Okay. Here's the deal and it's a good one. Lois is cool. It's a pacified situation.
What does that mean?
I'm talking about Lois having relaxed her anxiety. Only deal is...you still got Micheal there?
Yeah.
Good deal. Lois just wants to hear it from Micheal.
Hear what?
That it was all an accident. She wants to hear it from Micheal's mouth.
Now?
That's right.
Isn't it a little late?
Hold on a sec. Lois, you sure you wouldn't rather do this in the morning?
This is a situation that defies judgement. We have acted and showed courage that is not of a kind known by most.
I'm getting really tired of your bullshit.
My what?
You've got a warped thought process. Your brain doesn't function properly.
You care to add a little specification to that slanderous accusation?
I'm talking about some bad, bad, very bad things. Bad things! Those are bad fucking things!
Okay fine.
Fine? Fine what?
Whatever you say Kojak.
I'm serious.
I'm serious. I'm the serious one here. I'm the one making the play. I'm the Indian Runner. And I want my money.
Blood money. Insurance dollars that you have thus fucking far decided not to tell me about at all. In no way have you mentioned that money. And I find that to be very very offensive.
You're sick.
And if you think you can fuck me, don't. Cause I'm fucking insulated Fisher. Protected. Backed up on floppy. Do you get me? I want my fucking money!
Not a prayer.
I'm a lifesaver. A lighthouse. Up all night in the rain, in stormy gale force wind, tornado and fucking earthquakes. I stay lit for you. I stay lit. I don't go dark. I never go dark!
You need help.
No I don't.
Fish?
Your investment ideas never work out.
That's the whole point. They rarely work out. But on occasion they do. And when they do, they do big.
I don't think so Boyd.
Fine. Don't come crying to Boyd. No sir.
But not tonight.
Not tonight.
Keith Richards, Dean Martin...
Jack Kerouback, Herman Melville, Henry Miller and Hunter S. Thompson. I dedicate this evening to fear and to major loathing. So from sun set to sun rise, let me be heard...
Where do you look? What side of the neck?
Left side.
He's right.
We can take her out to Red Rock. Find some quiet place...and put her in the ground.
I got her arm.
Here's his head.
The past is the past. Today is the beginning of the rest of our lives.
Today is the best day of the rest of our lives.
What's your fucking point?
I'm not talking to you?
What's goosed?
What is her disposition?
He just had two.
Give me two more.
He's too drunk.
He's fine. Okay Mikey, let's go. You guys stay here.
What is it?
Ah, yeah, hi. Is Tina there?
What?
I'm with Tina. Is she there?
She's not here.
Where is she?
She's here. She's just...Hold on a second.
Okay. Hi.
So who's the lucky guy?
Who?
The groom?
Yup.
Doing the bachelor party thing?
That's right.
Sin City. Devil's Playground. The Black Bitch. All day every day. Where's Tina?
She's in the bathroom...she's still working.
She's still working?
That's right.
Sweet deal.
Is everything okay?
Great. Fine. Perfect.
She's in there!
I'm just gonna let her know I'm here.
What are you talking about?
Don't sweet lip me.
I don't understand where this personal attack is coming from...
You're a liar. I want to know what happened in Vegas.
Nothing happened in Vegas.
I don't want to hear it from the liar. Stick a plug in it Boyd. Fisher? What happened in Vegas?
Micheal? Do you have something to tell me?
Micheal. Tell Lois that nothing...
Shut up Boyd! Micheal?
He's upset about Adam. We're all upset.
I will call the police right now if I don't start getting some answers.
Lois please.
My god.
There's more.
Money?
Yes money. Adam had a five hundred dollar Term Life Insurance Policy.
What does that mean?
Actually, no. Adam was switching to a Whole Life Policy, but rescheduled his medical exam...and failed to make his last payment...so his Term Life lapsed. So it's value is null and void. Now he did have a pension account, worth another 150 thousand.
Well, oh...
And a house. Valued at 350 thousand.
So where's that leave us?
So. When is the wedding.
Tomorrow. We are getting married tomorrow.
We'll be ready Adam.
I know you'll be. Three hours.
That's one idea.
No...we want padded chairs...okay?
Real times.
They've all been real times. And as you prepare to enter into a new phase of life, as you prepare for new roles; father, husband, teacher, you will, as I have, come to except the letting go of of old ways. Soon, the mellowing will begin...
No. No. No. It's what my father said to me. He said it and he meant it... He said to me...He said, Adam, he said...He told me and I heard him... he said... Hell he said so many Goddamn things I can't remember everything he said for Christsake.
Right! That's exactly what I'm saying. My father said, first of all, I'm your father not your friend. I'm your father.
Are you solid with that?
No. I think it's fucked.
Then fuck what your father said, cause I'm gonna tell you right now...You'll know what it's all about, why you got married and why you love her when you wake up at three in the morning, and the streetlight's coming through the window and it's just catching a corner of her face, like a sleeping angel. And her hair smells sweet and she's your's. She's all your's. Do you see where I'm going here?
The bucks gonna stop right here. If my son doesn't know the six New England states, if he has trouble with geography, I won't stick it in his face. I'll help the little guy. I'll put him in the car and take him out there. I'll take him to Maine for a big Lobster dinner, go skiing in Vermont, hot dogs at Yankee Stadium...I won't stare him down.
Don't ever stare him down.
I won't do it.
Don't eyeball your kids.
I tell mine that they're little men. I tell them they're strong. They make me feel joy. I let 'em know. So they really know that I need them just as much. You know. Just as much man. And you know, you're their godfather...
I know and I'm honored...
If anything ever happens to me...
I know...
Y'see? That's the real point here. That's what I'm driving for, when the big storm comes and knocks down all the forests and the rocks fall down and the leave's are bare. What's left? The little trees, the little fellas that the storm didn't see. The tiny little...
Either side you idiot. I'm calling 911.
What happened? Oh my God...
No way.
It has to be done.
I want you to hear me out.
What.
You and I have done nothing. You especially. We are innocent.
I don't think so.
We are. We go to the police. We tell them the truth. Now. Before they find out. Now. We save ourselves.
Have you thought about what I said?
Jesus Adam, can we not get into this now please?
I got a migraine like a little monkey kicking in the side of my skull, Mike Tyson with a fucking sledge hammer trying to crack...
I got you.
Where's the bathroom?
Don't snap at them!
They're driving me nuts!
They're singing.
Honey, go in there and get some Starbursts.
What?
They're screaming for Starbursts.
Later.
They're screaming like monsters and it's giving me a headache. Go get some fucking Starbursts.
Where's the candy?
There is no candy!
What do you mean? It's it's a Goddamn MiniMart?!
Four hours and fifteen minutes. I can make Vegas in 3 and change.
I'm not getting a ticket.
Don't even start.
You want to hear me out?
One idea that if you had fucking listened to, you would each be worth approximately 15 million dollars.
You can't keep bringing up Starbucks. That was your only real hit in like 75 tries.
I set up Fisher with the broker that found his house. Took care of that one, didn't I? Prison Communications.
More.
Over eight years of some of the hardest raging experiences of my life.
She's got no fucking pulse.
You don't know what you're doing.
Wait!
What?
What are you doing?
What are you talking about?
What do you think you are doing?
I'm calling the ambulance.
Just wait a second. Wait one second. Okay. What are you doing?
Calling the ambulance.
Why? Why? She's dead. Why are you calling an ambulance?
We have to call the ambulance.
Why?
Everybody shut up. LISTEN TO ME!
Listen to me. Please. Everybody just calm down a bit here. Okay... First...are we sure she's dead?
Her head's bashed in and her heart isn't beating.
Are you sure this was an accident?
You're a lying deviant. What did you do?!
Stop it! Listen to me. Let's just take a second here and take hold of the situation, OK? Let's just review our options here.
We have a dead woman bleeding all over the bathroom. What options? Call the police.
Call the police. Okay, that's one option.
That is not an "option." There is no multiple choice here.
Yes sir, there sure is an option here. There are always options.
Stop it!
There's more.
Just stop.
Just giving the facts.
I'm calling the police.
What were we doing officer? Why didn't we help her? Well...we're all a bit high, you know, bachelor party, that kind of thing. Fisher here is getting married in three days...Beautiful wife ...he didn't have anything at all to do with it...It was all Micheal here... just Micheal...
Bury her out in the desert.
Sure, why not.
You don't just casually walk out of a Vegas Casino with a dead woman.
We can do this. We can get her out of here.
Have you completely lost your mind? So you get her out of here. So you get her out into the desert somehow, without anybody seeing, so what, you don't think at some point somebody might notice that she's gone?
Nobody knows she's here. I called her personally. Nobody knows.
Her blood is all over the bathroom. I'd say that's a bit of a DNA problem.
It's a marble floor, we can clean it up.
Her fucking head was caved in.
So I didn't fucking do it!
She's got bondage burns on her wrists. There's blow all over the room, Moore looks like he went at it with a mountain lion. This room looks like the Manson Family stayed here a month. Micheal goes down, we all go down.
Wrap her up in blankets. Bring the car around to the back of the hotel, throw her off the balcony, put her in the car...Done.
You don't think someone will have a problem with a body being thrown off a balcony?
We check out the area and wait for a time when it's clear.
What about the blood?
Someone goes to Walmart, gets some buckets, brushes, mops, Spic and Span, the works.
Have you ever done this before?
The reality is, you take away the horror of this situation, take away the tragedy of the death, take away the moral and ethical implications of all the crap you have had conditioned, beaten, into your head since grade one. What are we left with? What? A 115 lb. problem. 115 lbs. that must be moved from point A to point B. Now, a straight line in the shortest distance but we are denied the luxury of a visible straight line. But that line exists and I see it.I see that line. Trust me. Adam. Trust me...I can take care of this.
Sun rises at 5:52.
I'm not wrecking the transmission!
Wait. Wait a minute.
What?
We can't do this.
We've already done this.
No, I mean the suitcases. We can't bury them in suticases.
How do you figure?
According to Jewish law, the blood and limbs are considered to be part of the human being. They must be buried together or their souls won't rest in peace.
So that's what we're doing.
No we're not. The bodies are all mixed up. We can't do this to them.
She's Asian. They don't have Jews in Asia.
That is absolutely not true.
Well what the fuck are we supposed to do?
Open the suitcases, unpack the body parts and reunite the limbs.
We have to get going.
I am not flexible on this.
Alright. Let's do it.
Now I am the last to say that we have done here is a good thing. It's not. It's not a good thing. But it was, given the circumstances, the smart play. We did what had to be done. And...well...I'm proud of us. I'm proud of each and every one of us. We performed. Under the most complex and nerve shattering of situations, we stood fast and we delivered. I feel proud.
We are all going straight to hell. Either hell or prison, whichever comes first.
Wrong. That is flat out wrong. Hell is for cowards, for hypocrites who fear to live by the strenght of their own convictions. This is war. Given the circumstances, and given the fact that we are alive and they are not, we have chosen life over death. Two wrongs don't make a right. So our conviction and execution would only mean more death here, not less.
Boyd you idiot, the shit's coming down!
What does that mean?
You got us into this mess.
Oh I did? I think it was your little rat fuck brother who decided to play Hamburger Helper with the hooker's head.
Would you, shush?! These phones aren't secure!
Lighten up Adam. Show some character.
Don't talk to me about character.
Watch the tone fella.
Fuck you Boyd!
Any time fat boy!
What is your problem?
I can't do this.
What?
At the seveneleven.
Who? What are you talking about?
They're on me. They're smoking me out!
Nobody's smoking anybody out.
You got some mighty fucking fine bad timing Adam. We got a rehearsal situation here.
I don't give a damn.
I didn't do anything! I'll turn your pathetic ass in!
Adam! Calm down.
I won't calm down. I can't do this. We can't do this. It won't work. It will not work.
It has worked.
I'm talking about DNA samples, fiber optics, search parties, they got infrared scanners, FBI scientists. They figure this shit out. They always figure it out.
They won't figure it out.
I got children. I've got a life.
All right. Let's all go back in. Adam? You're cool right?
No. I'm not Boyd. I am not cool at all.
We're leaving from my house in three hours. If you want to come, get your numbers in order by then.
First of all...
No first of all. I'm not in a game mood.
You're interrupting a personal conversation.
Sorry Fish.
It's really a stupid opinion. You have developed an annoying habit of talking for what seems to be no other reason than to hear yourself speak.
Because my opinion threatens yours, it's poorly developed?
No, because your opinions are idiotic and have nothing to do with what any given conversation is about, which makes 85% of your eagerly injected thought process highly offensive to me.
Boyd brought up divorce statistics.
You're an asshole Adam.
You're an asshole.
Oh, and why am I an asshole?
Multiple reasons.
Name one.
I don't have to...
Tonight we return once again to the cave. Tonight we let the monsters out. We fill ourselves with the spirits of Genghis Khan, Joe Namath, JFK, Paton, Lombardi, Hemingway...
Franco motherfucking Harris!
I was just playing...we were playing just playing around.
She's dead.
We were playing...she slipped...she hit her head.
Playing?
The floor was wet. She slipped!
Why was the floor wet?
I don't know why the floor was wet!
Why?!
Why?
It's sacrilegious.
This is pathetic.
You're pathetic.
What did you say?
You're not a team player.
Don't point at me.
You never were a team player. That's why you never had any friends.
I have plenty of friends.
The hell you do.
The hell I don't.
You have acquaintances  business friends and superficial golf buddies. You have always been a fringe player. You have some serious male on male intimacy problems.
What are you fucking talking about?
Fucking Boyd. That fucking idiot. They're on to us.
They're not on to us. I'm gonna call Boyd.
About anybody but yourself. You never have.
And you're a little fucking reject.
Eat my ass!
If you ever touch my minivan again, I'll make you sorry. Real sorry.
You're a loser.
You got a retarded kid and a fat pig wife.
You fucking bastard!
Don't you threaten me you little rat fuck.
Don't you fucking threaten me  I'll fucking kill you.
Go home!
You go home!
How ya doing?
What?
What's that?
What did you say?
I said how's it going?
I didn't hear you.
Well that's what I said.
The stripper's here.
Excellent.
She's fucking hot!
I need a drink.
Jesus.
Don't touch her. Call 911.
They'll get us on accesory to murder.
Bullshit it's not accesory. I didn't do shit. You call the cops, you explain it was an accident...
I'm not going to ruin my life over a dead whore.
That's a horrible ugly comment. "Dead whore?" She's a person!
Can't do what?
We're gonna get caught. I know we're gonna get caught. They were eyeballing my car.
No, that's not it. Nothing like it.
But you said grey, sir.
Not tweed  it's a smoother material, with a larger collar and belted.
She'll be out in a moment.
Now, Judy, it isn't anything to get 
Yes! That's it!
I thought so!
Oh, yes! It may need some slight alterations, but it is madam's size. All right, dear. We'll have it for you to try in a moment.
How soon can it be altered?
Well...
Can we have it by tonight?
Well, if it's absolutely necessary...
Yes, it is. Now, I want to look at an evening dress, a dinner dress, black  short  long sleeves  with a neck cut this... ...and the skirt out.
Yes... the Beautiful Carlotta... the Sad Carlotta...
What does a big old wooden house on the corner of Eddy and Gough Street have to do with her?
It was hers. It was built for her. Many years ago.
By whom?
By... no... the name I do not remember. A rich man, a powerful man. It is not an unusual story. She came from somewhere small, to the south of the city... some say from a mission settlement... young, yes; very young. And she was found singing and dancing in a cabaret by the man... wait... wait... Ives! His name was Ives! Yes. And he took her and built for her this great house in the Western Addition... and there was a child. Yes. This was it. The child.
She died.
How?
By her own hand. There are many such stories.
Thank you, Mr. Leibel. Thank you very much.
Ow!!
I thought you said no more aches and pains?
It's this darned corset. It binds. He retrieves the stick.
No threeway stretch? How very un chic.
Well, you know those police department doctors: no sense of style. Ah, tomorrow!
What's tomorrow?
Tomorrow... the corset comes off. And this thing goes out the window. I shall be a free man. I shall wiggle my behind... free and unconfined.
Midge, do you suppose many men wear corsets?
More than you think.
How do you know? Personal experience?
Please! And what happens after tomorrow?
What do you mean?
What are you going to do? Now that you've quit the police force?
You sound so disapproving, Midge.
No, it's your life. But you were the bright young lawyer who decided he was going to be chief of police some day.
I had to quit, Midge.
Why?
I wake up at night seeing him fall from the roof... and try to reach out for him.
It wasn't your fault.
I know. Everybody tells me.
Johnny, the doctors explained 
I know. I have Acrophobia. What a disease. A fear of heights. And what a moment to find out I had it.
Well, you've got it. And there's no losing it. And there's no one to blame. So why quit?
And sit behind a desk? Chairborne?
It's where you belong.
Not with my Acrophobia, Midge. If I dropped a pencil on the floor and bent down to pick it up, it could be disastrous!
Ah, JohnnyO...
Well?... what'll you do?
Nothing for a while. You forget, I'm a man of independent means. Or fairly independent.
Mmm. Why don't you go away for a while?
To forget? Don't be so motherly, Midge. I'm not going to crack up.
Have you had any dizzy spells this week?
I'm having one now.
From that music.
Oh!
It's a brassiere. You know about those things. You're a big boy, now.
I've never run across one like that.
It's brand new. Revolutionary uplift. No shoulder straps, no back straps, but does everything a brassiere should do. It works on the principle of the cantilever bridge.
Uhhuh!
An aircraft engineer down the peninsula designed it. He worked it out in his spare time.
What a pleasant hobby.
How's your love life, Midge?
That's following a train of thought.
Well?
Normal.
Aren't you ever going to get married?
You know there's only one man in the world for me, JohnnyO.
Yeah, I'm a brute. We were engaged once though, weren't we?
Three whole weeks.
Ah, sweet college days. But you're the one who blew it. I'm still available. Available Ferguson. Say, Midge, do you remember a guy at college named Gavin Elster?
Gavin? Gavin Elster? You'd think I'd would. No.
I got a call from him today. Funny. He dropped out of sight during the war, and I'd heard he'd gone East. I guess he's back. It's a Mission number.
That's Skid Row... isn't it?
Could be.
He's probably on the bum and wants to touch you for the price of a drink.
Well, I'm on the bum; I'll buy him a couple of drinks and tell him my troubles. But not tonight. If you won't drink with me, I'll drink alone, tonight.
Sorry, old man. Work.
Midge, what did you mean, there's no losing it?
What.
My... the acrophobia.
I asked my doctor. He said only another emotional shock could do it, and probably wouldn't. And you're not going to go diving off another rooftop to find out.
I think I can lick it.
How?
I've got a theory. Look. If I can get used to heights just a little at a time... progressively see?
Here, I'll show you what I mean. We'll start with this.
That!?!
What do you want me to start with  the Golden Gate Bridge?
Now. I look up, I look down. I look up, I look down. Nothing to it.
Stop kidding. Wait a minute.
Step number two.
Okay.
Easy, now.
This is a cinch. I look up, I look down. I look up 
Johnny!
Oh, damn it! Damn it, damn it 
Now, that's the kind of greeting a girl likes. None of this "hello you look wonderful" stuff. Just a good straight "who do you know" 
Well, who? Come on, you know everybody.
Professor Saunders, over in Berkeley.
Not that kind of history. The small stuff! About people you never heard of!
Oh! You mean Gay Old Bohemian Days of Gay Old San Francisco! The juicy stories? Like who shot who in the Embarcadero August, 1879?
Yeah.
Pop Leibel.
Who?
Pop Leibel owns the Argosy Book Shop. What do you want to know?
Who shot who in the Embarcadero in August, 1879.
Wait a minute! You're not a detective any more. What's going on?
Do you know him well?
Pop Leibel? Sure.
All right, come on. Introduce me. Where is your hat?
The poor thing....
And she died...
Now then, JohnnyO; pay me.
For what?
For bringing you here. Come on, tell!
Nothing to tell.
You'll tell, or you'll be back in that corset! Come on!
I'll take you home.
Here you are.
You haven't told me everything.
I've told you enough.
Who's the guy, who's the wife?
Out. I've got things to do.
I know. The one who phoned. Your old college chum, Elster.
Out!
And the idea is that the Beautiful Mad Carlotta has come back from the dead, to take possession of Elster's wife? Ah, Johnny! Come on!
I'm not telling you what I think! I'm telling you what he thinks!
Think? Well, what do you think?
Is she pretty?
Carlotta?
No, not Carlotta. Elster's wife.
Mmm, yeah, I guess...
Midge!
Byebye!
I did. Since when do you go about slipping notes under men's doors?
Since I stopped being able to get them on the phone. For a man who has nothing to do, you're certainly a busy little bee. Where do you go, these days?
Just wander.
Where?
Around.
Oh?
Mm. Better.
Did you need it?
Yeah.
Oh?
What was this desperate urge to see me?
All I said in the note was: "Where are you?" That doesn't sound desperate to me.
Well, I detected an undercurrent.
I just thought if I gave you a drink and fed you some dinner, you'd be so grateful you'd take me to a movie.
Fair enough. What'll we talk about at dinner?
Oh... this and that.
What I've been doing?
If you want to. Naturally, we won't talk about anything you don't want to talk about.
Naturally.
What have you been doing?
Wandering.
Oh, I'm having a wonderful time! I've gone back to my first love... painting.
Good. I've always said you were wasting your time in the underwear department.
Well, it's a living. But I'm excited about this.
What is it, a still life?
No, not exactly. Want to see?
As a matter of fact, I thought I might give it to you.
Oh?
Is there something I can do for you?
Yes... you run this hotel.
Oh, yes!
Would you tell me, who has the room on the second floor in the corner, that corner?
Oh, I'm afraid we couldn't give out information of that sort. Our clients are entitled to their privacy, you know. And I do believe it's against the law! Of course, I don't think any of them would mind, really, but still I would have to know who you are, and ask 
Oh, dear! Has she done something wrong?
Please answer my question.
I can't imagine that sweet girl with that dear face 
What is her name?
Valdes. Miss Valdes. It's Spanish, you know.
Carlotta Valdes?
Yes, that's it. Sweet name, isn't it? Foreign. But sweet.
How long has she had the room?
Oh, it must be two weeks. Yes, the rent's due tomorrow.
Does she sleep here? Ever?
No... she only comes to sit. Two or three times a week. And I never ask questions, you know. As long as they're well behaved. I must say that I've wondered 
When she comes down, don't say that I've been here.
Oh, but she hasn't been here today. Scottie whirls back on her.
I saw her come in five minutes. ago.
Oh, no! She hasn't been here at all! I would have seen her, you know. I've been right here all the time, putting olive oil on my rubber plant leaves!
And there! There you see? Her key is on the rack!
Would you please go and look?
In her room? Well, yes, of course if you ask. But it does seem silly...
Her car is gone.
What car?
Why am I here? What happened?
You... ...fell into the Bay.
You don't remember.
No...
Do you remember where you were?
Oh, of course I remember that! But then I must have had a dizzy spell, and fainted!
Where were you?
At...
...Old Port Point! Out at the Presidio! Of course I remember! I often go there!
Why?
Because I love it so. It's beautiful there. Especially at sunset. Ah... thank you for the fire.
Where had you been before?
When?
This afternoon.
Oh... wandering about.
Before? Where? Where had you been?
Please drink your coffee.
I will. You're terribly direct in your questions.
I'm sorry. I didn't mean to be rude.
You're not. Merely direct. What were you doing there? At Old Fort Point?
Wandering about.
You like it, too.
The Palace of the Legion of honor. The Art Gallery.
Oh, that's a lovely spot, isn't it? I've never been inside. But it looks so lovely, driving past.
Lucky for me you were wandering about. Thank you again. I've been terrible bother to you.
No.
When you... There were pins in my hair...
Oh! Yes! Here!
You shouldn't have brought me here, you know.
I... didn't know where you lived.
You could have looked in my car. Oh, but you didn't know my car, did you?
Yes, I knew which one it was. It's out there, now. But I didn't think you'd want to be brought home that way.
No, you are right, I'm glad you didn't take me home... I wouldn't have known you, to thank you... Oh, but I don't know you! And you don't know me! My name is Madeleine Elster.
My name is John Ferguson.
That's a good, strong name. Do your friends call you John? Or Jack.
John. Old friends. Acquaintances call me Scottie.
I shall call you Mr. Ferguson.
No, I wouldn't like that. And after what happened today I should think you could call me Scottie. Or even John.
I prefer John. There, that's done. And what do you do, John?
Wander about.
That's a good occupation. And live here... alone?
One shouldn't live alone.
Some people prefer it.
No... it's wrong.
Will you tell me something? Has this ever happened to you before?
What?
...Falling... into San Francisco Bay?
No, never before. I've fallen into lakes, out of rowboats, when I was a little girl. And I fell into a river, once, trying to leap from one stone to another. But I've never fallen into San Francisco Bay. Have you? Ever before?
No... this is the first time for me, too.
Oh! Yes. Hello.
Good morning. I worried about you, last night. You shouldn't have run like that.
I... suddenly felt such a fool.
I wanted to drive you home. Are you all right?
Oh, yes. Fine. No after effects. But as I remember now, that water was cold, wasn't it? What a terrible thing to do... and you were so kind... It's a formal thankyou letter. And a great big apology.
You've nothing to apologize for.
Oh, yes! The whole thing must have been so embarrassing for you!
Not at all, I enjoyed 
 talking to you...
I enjoyed talking to you.
Would you like some coffee?
No! No, thank you!
I couldn't mail it; I didn't know your address. But I had a landmark. I remembered Coit Tower and it led me straight to you.
The first time I've been grateful for Coit Tower.
I hope we will, too.
What?
Meet again, sometime.
We have.
Goodbye.
Goodbye.
I don't know.
Shopping?
No.
Well... anywhere in particular?
No, I Just thought I'd wander.
Ah. That's what I was going to do.
Oh, yes, I forgot: It's your occupation, isn't it?
Don't you think it's sort of a waste for the two of us to...
Wander separately? Ah, but only one is a wanderer. Two, together, are always going somewhere.
No... no, I don't think that's necessarily true.
Do you know where you're going?
Of course not! I'm a wanderer! I'd like to go somewhere I've never been!
How can you be sure?
If I've been there? That's silly! Either you've been to a place or you haven't.
How old?
Oh... some, two thousand years, or more.
The oldest living things?
What are you thinking?
Of all the people who have been born... and have died... while the trees went on living.
Their true name is Sequoia Sempervirens: always green, ever living.
I don't like them.
Why?
Knowing I have to die...
Do you hear anything?
Only silence. It's always like this.
And no birds sing.
No birds live here.
No.
Would you like a drink of water?
No, thank you.
Somewhere in here I was born... and here I died and it was only a moment for you... you took no notice...
Madeleine!
Where are you now?
Here with you.
Where?
The tall trees...
Have you been here before?
Yes...
When?
Where were you born?
Long ago...
Where?
No!... No!
Tell me what it is. Where do you go? What takes you away?
No, don't ask me!
When you jumped in the bay, you didn't know where you were. You guessed but you didn't know.
I didn't jump, I fell! You told me I fell!
Why did you jump?
No!
What was it inside that told you to jump?
No, I can't tell you!
What?!
No! Please! Please, please, please, please, don't ask me!
Take me away from here?
Home?
...somewhere in the light.
I'm responsible for you now, you know. The Chinese say that once you have saved someone's life, you are responsible for it forever. And so I'm committed. And I have to know.
And you'll go on saving me? Again and again?
There is so little I know. It is as though I were walking down a long corridor that once was mirrored, and fragments of mirror still hang there, dark and shadowy, reflecting a dark image of me... and yet not me... someone else, in other clothes, of another time, doing things I have never done... but still me... And I can't stop to ask why, I must keep on walking. At the and of the corridor there is nothing but darkness, and I know when I walk into the darkness, I'll die. But I've never come to the and; I've always come back, before then. Except once.
Yesterday.
But the small scenes, the fragments in the mirror: you remember them.
Vaguely...
What do you remember?
A room... there is a room, and I sit there alone... always alone...
Would you know the room?
No... it's in shadow.
What else?
A grave...
Where?
I don't know. An open grave. I stand by the gravestone looking down into it. And it's my grave.
How do you know?
I know.
There's a name on the gravestone.
No. It's new and clean, and waiting.
What else?
This part is dream, I think. There is a tower and a bell and... a garden below... but it seems to be in Spain... a village in Spain. And then it clicks off, and is gone.
A portrait? Do you ever see a portrait?
No.
Of the woman in the mirror. Would you know her if you saw her?
But I'm the woman in the mirror!
No!
If I could find the key... find the beginning put it together...
And so explain it away? But there is a way to explain it, you see. If I'm mad? That would explain it, wouldn't it?
I'm not mad. I'm not mad. And I don't want to die, but there's someone inside me, there's a somebody else, and she says I must die... Scottie, don't let me go!
I'm here, I've got you...
I'm so afraid... ...you won't let it happen...
Don't leave me... stay with me...
All the time.
I should have phoned... but I wanted to see you... be with you...
Why? What's happened?
I had the dream. The dream came back again...
No, don't go away!
Only this far.
Where's your husband?
I didn't wake him. I don't want him to know...
It was a dream, you're awake, you're all right, now. Can you tell me?
It was the tower again... and the bell, and the old Spanish village...
Yes 
But clear... so very clear... for the first time... all of it...
Tell me.
There was a village square, a green with trees... and an old whitewashed Spanish church with a cloister. Across the green: a big, grey, wooden house with a porch and shutters and a balcony above... a small garden, and next to it, a livery stable... with old carriages lined up inside.
Go on.
At the end of the green there was a whitewashed stone house with a lovely pepper tree at the corner 
 and an old wooden hotel of the old California days, and a saloon... dark... lowceilinged... with hanging oil lamps.
Yes?! But 
It's all there. It's no dream.
You've been there before. You've seen it.
No, never!
Madeleine, a hundred miles south of San Francisco there's an old Spanish Mission, Mission San Juan Bautista. It's been preserved exactly as it was a hundred years ago as a museum. Now, think hard, darling. You've been there before. You've seen it!
No, never! I've never been there! Scottie, what is it? I've never been there!
Go on with your dream. What was it that frightened you?
I stood alone on the green, searching for something, and I started to walk to the church. But then the darkness closed in, I was alone in the dark, being pulled into darkness, and I fought to wake up...
Here with you.
And it's a all real.
Yes.
Not merely as it was a hundred years ago. As it was a year ago, or six months ago, whenever you were here to see it. Madeleine, think of when you were here!
My love... because I love you.
I love you too... too late... too late...
No... we're together...
Too late... there's something I must do...
There are things I have to tell you, about how we met, and why we are together. But they can wait. The only important thing now is that I love you and I'm going to keep you safe.
You can't.
Why?
Let me go.
Where?
To the church, I must go there.
Madeleine 
Please let me go.
It's not fair, it's too late. It wasn't supposed to happen this way, it shouldn't have happened...!
It had to. We're in love. That's all that counts. Madeleine 
Let me go! Let me go!!
Madeleine!!
You believe that I love you?
Yes.
And if you lose me, you'll know that I loved you and wanted to go on loving you.
I won't lose you.
Let me go into the church alone.
Why?
Please. Because I love you. He stares at her, sees the pleading look in her eyes, and lets go. She turns and walks away toward the church, slowly, her head bowed. He watches her go and starts to move after her. Then slowly, as she goes, her head begins to go up until finally, as she walks, she is staring high above her. And then, suddenly, she breaks into a broken run.
Could I ask you a couple of questions?
What for? Who are you?
My name is John Ferguson, and 
Is this some kind of Gallup Poll, or something?
No, there are just a few things I want to ask you, and 
Do you live here in the hotel?
No, I happened to see you come in, and I thought 
0h, I thought so! A pickup! Well, you've got a nerve, following me right into the hotel and up to my room! You beat it! Go on! Beat it!
No, please! I Just want to talk to you!
Listen, I'm going to yell in a minute!
I'm not going to hurt you! I promise! Please!
Just let me talk to you.
What about?
You.
Why?
I've heard that one before, too. I remind you of someone you used to be madly in love with, but she ditched you for another guy, and you've been carrying the torch ever since, and then you saw me and something clicked. Huh!
You're not far wrong.
Well, it's not going to work. So you'd better go.
Let me come in.
I warn you, I can yell awfully loud.
You won't have to.
Well... you don't look very much like Jack the Ripper...
What do you want to know?
Your name. And 
Judy Barton.
Who you are 
Just a girl, I work at Magnin's 
 and how you happen to be living here.
It's a place to live, that's all.
But you haven't lived here long.
About three years.
No, a year ago! Where did you live a year ago!!?
I told you! Right here!
But before! Where did you live before!?!
Salina, Kansas!
Listen, what is this? What do you want?
I want to know who you are.
I told you! My name is Judy Barton! I come from Salina Kansas. I work at Magnin's! I live here! My gosh, do I have to prove it?
Will you have dinner with me?
Why?
Well, I feel I owe you something for all this...
No, you don't owe me anything.
Then will you for me?
Dinner... and what else?
Just dinner.
Because I remind you of her?
Because I'd like to have dinner with you.
Well... I've been on blind dates before... Matter of fact, to be honest, I've been picked up before. Okay.
I'll get my car and be back in half an hour.
Oh, no! Give me time to change and get fixed up!
An hour?
Mmm.
Okay.
Thank you again. Goodnight.
Can I see you tomorrow?
Tomorrow night? Well 
Tomorrow morning.
Tomorrow m  but I have to go to work. I've got a job.
Don't go.
And what will I live on? My oil wells in Texas?
I'll take care of you.
Oh, Well, thank very much. But no thanks.
No, Judy, you don't understand.
Oh, I understand, all right. I've been understanding since I was seventeen. And the next step is, as long as you're going to see me tomorrow, why don't you stay the night.
No.
No? Then what?
I just want to see you as much as I can!
As friends? We'd just see a lot of each other as friends, and you'd "take care of me"?
Yes.
Why? Because I remind you of someone? That's not very complimentary. And nothing would... happen...
No.
That's not very complimentary, either.
No, Judy, I'm not going to move! Please! Stay in the chair!
Why?!
Please! And don't look at me.
Will you, Judy?
I suppose I could phone the store in the morning, and say I'm sick.
I like that one.
No, there. There's a good one. Do you like that?
Yes 
Okay. Now we're going to buy you some clothes.
Honest?
There's Ransohoff's. Nothing but the best. Come on.
But Scottie, you don't have to!
I want to! Come on!
But I like that one, Scottie.
No, it's not right.
Scottie, what are you doing?
I'm trying to buy you a suit.
But I loved the second one she wore. And this one   is beautiful.
They're none of them right.
But why?
You want me to dress like her?
Judy, I just want you to look nice. And I know what kind of suit would look well on you.
Ah, no!!! I don't want to be dressed like someone dead!
Judy 
It's a horrible idea! Is that what I'm here for? To make you feel that you're with someone that's dead?
Judy, it can't make much difference to you. I just want to see how you'd look and I know it won't be the same, but 
No, I don't want any clothes! I don't want anything! I want to get out of here!
Judy, you've got to do this for me! Please!
I don't like it!
We'll take it! Will it fit?
I wish you'd leave me alone. I want to go away.
You can.
No, you wouldn't let me. And I don't want to go...
Judy, I want to tell you: these few days have been the first happy days I've had in a year.
I know. Because I remind you of her. The one that's dead. And not even that, very much.
No, it's you too, Judy. Something in you.
You don't even want to touch me.
Yes. Yes, I do.
The color of your hair...
Ah, no!
Judy, please it can't matter to you...
The trouble is, I'm gone now. For you. And I can't do anything about it. I want you to love me. If I let you change me, will that do it? If I do what you tell me, will you love me?
Yes.
All right. Then I'll do it. Because I don't care about me anymore. I just want you to love me.
Well?
It should be back from your face  with a bun at the neck. I told them. I told you.
We tried it. It didn't suit me.
Where shall we go for dinner?
Wherever you'd like...
Ernie's?
You've got a thing about Ernie's, haven't you?
Well, after all, it's "our place."
Mmmm.
Is that the best you can do?
Come here.
Oh, no. You'll muss me.
That's what I had in mind.
Too late. I've got my face on.
I'm suddenly hungry. Would you rather go somewhere else?
No, Ernie's is fine.
I'm going to have one of those big beautiful steaks. And... let's see... to start...
I've got it. He bends down and bites the back of her neck.
Oh! You're supposed to fasten it!
All in good time.
Scottie!
How does it work?
Can't you see?
Oh, yeah. There.
We're going awfully far.
I feel like driving. Are you terrible hungry?
No, it's all right.
Where are you going?
To complete my cure.
Scottie, why are we here?
I told you. I have to go back into the past. Once more. For the last time.
But why? Why here?
Madeleine died here.
No, I don't want to go. I want to stay here.
I need you.
Why?
I can't do it alone. I need you, to be Madeleine for a while. Then, when it's done, we'll both be free.
I'm scared.
So am I, But it has to be done. I have to tell you about Madeleine, now.
...We stood there and I kissed her for the last time. And she said, "If lose me, you'll know that I loved you 
Scottie 
 and wanted to go on loving you." And I said, "I won't lose you." But I did.
And I couldn't follow her. God knows I tried. One doesn't often get a second chance. I want to stop being haunted. You're my second chances, Judy.
Take me away...
You look like Madeleine, now. Go up the stairs.
No!
Go up the stairs, Judy. I'll follow.
We're going up the tower, Madeleine.
No! Let me go!
We're going up the tower.
You can't. You're afraid!
I'm going to. It's my second chance.
Scottie, please...!
But you knew, that day, that I wouldn't be able to follow you didn't you. Who was at the top when you got there? Elster? With his wife?
Yes!
And she was the one who died. Not you. The real wife. You were the copy, you were the counterfeit. Was she dead or alive when you got there?
Dead. He'd broken her neck.
Took no chances, did he? And when you got there, he pushed her off the tower, was that it? But you were the one who screamed. Why did you scream?
I wanted to stop it, I ran up to stop it 
Why? Since you'd tricked me so well up to then?!! You played his wife so well, Judy! He made you over, didn't he? Just as I've done. But better! Not just the hair and the clothes! the look! the manner! the words! Those beautiful phony trances! That jump into the Bay! I'll bet you're really a strong swimmer, aren't you! Aren't you!!
Did he train you? Rehearse you? Teach you what to say and what to do?
Yes!
And you were such an apt pupil! What fun you two must have had, playing games with me! Why me? Why did he pick on me?!!
Your accident...
Ah, yes! I was a setup. I was the madetoorder witness. Where is he now?
I don't know... Switzerland?
We'll find him.
I made it.
What are you going to do?
Look at the scene of the crime. Go on in.
Oh, Judy!! When he had all her money, and the freedom and the power... he ditched you? What a shame! But he knew he was safe. You couldn't talk. Didn't he give you anything?
Some money.
And the necklace. Carlotta's necklace. That was your mistake, Judy. One shouldn't keep souvenirs of a killing. You shouldn't have been that sentimental.
What are you going to do?
I loved you, Madeleine.
I was safe when you found me, there was nothing you could prove! But when I saw you again I couldn't run away, I loved you so! I walked into danger and let you change me again because I loved you and wanted you! Scottie, please! You love me now! Love me! Keep me safe!
Love me... keep me safe...
Too late... too late... there's no bringing her back.
Hello.
Scottie, what happened? She's not home, yet.
No, she's all right. She's still here. But I'll get her home soon.
What happened?
She... went into the Bay.
Hello?
Did she hurt herself?
No. She's in fine shape. Nothing to worry about. But she doesn't know. You understand that. She doesn't know what she did.
How'd you get into the shipbuilding business, Gavin?
I married into it.
Interesting business.
No, to be honest, I find it dull.
You don't have to do it for a living.
No. But one assumes obligations. My wife's family is all gone; someone has to look after her interest. Her father's partner runs the company yard in the East  Baltimore  so I decided as long as I had to work at it, I'd come back here. I've always liked it here.
How long have you been back?
Almost a year.
And you like it.
San Francisco's changed. The things a that spell San Francisco to me are disappearing fast.
Like all this.
I'd like to have lived here then. The color and excitement... the power... the freedom.
Shouldn't you be sitting down?
No, I'm all right.
I was sorry to read about that thing in the papers. And you've quit the force. A permanent physical disability?
No, Acrophobia isn't a crippling thing. It just means I can't climb steep stairs or go to high places, like the bar at the TopoftheMark. But   there are plenty of streetlevel bars In this town.
Would you like a drink now?
No... no, thanks. A bit early in the day for spirits. Well, I guess that about covers everything, doesn't it? I never married; I don't see much of the "old college gang"; I'm a retired detective  and you're in the shipbuilding business. What's on your mind, Gavin?
Not what you think. We're very happily married.
Then?
I'm afraid some harm may come to her.
From whom?
Someone dead.
Scottie, do you believe that someone out of the past, someone dead, can enter and take possession of a living being?
No.
If I told you I believe that his happened to my wife, what would you say?
I'd say you'd better take her to the nearest psychiatrist, psychologist, neurologist, psychoanalyst, or plain family doctor. And have him check you both.
Then you're of no use to me. I'm sorry I wasted your time. Thank you for coming in, Scottie.
I didn't mean to be that rough.
No, it sounds idiotic, I know. And you're still the hardheaded Scot, aren't you? Always were. Do you think I'm making it up?
No.
I'm not making it up. I wouldn't know how. She'll be talking to me about something, nothing at all, and suddenly the words fade into silence and a cloud comes into her eyes and they go blank... and she is somewhere else, away from me... someone I don't know. I call to her and she doesn't hear. And then with a long sigh she is back, and looks at me brightly, and doesn't know she's been away... can't tell me where... or why...
How often does this happen?
More and more in the past few weeks. And she wanders. God knows where she wanders. I followed her one day.
Where'd she go?
Watched her come out of the apartment, someone I didn't know... walking in a different way... holding her head in a way I didn't know; and get into her car, and drive out to... Golden Gate Park. Five miles. She sat on a bench at the edge of the lake and stared across the water to the old pillars that stand an the far shore, the Portals of the Past. Sat there a long time, not moving... and I had to leave, to got to the office. That evening, when I came home, I asked what she'd done all day. She said she'd driven to Golden Gate Park and sat by the lake. That's all.
Well?
The speedometer of her car showed she had driven 94 miles that day. Where did she go? I have to know, Scottie. Where she goes and what she does, before I got involved with doctors.
Have you talked to the doctors at all?
Yes, but carefully. I'd want to know more before committing her to that kind of care. Scottie 
I can get you a firm of private eyes to follow her for you. They're dependable, good boys 
I want you.
It's not my line.
Scottie, I need a friend! Someone I can trust! I'm in a panic about this!
How can I see her, to know her?
We're going to an opening at the opera tonight. We'll dine at Ernie's first. Which is easier?
Ernie's.
All right. You won't know what to look for at first, Scottie. Even I, who know her so well, cannot tell, sometimes, when the change has begun. She looks so lovely and normal...
You've done well, Scottie. You're good at your job.
That's Carlotta Valdes.
Yes.
There are things you didn't tell me.
I didn't know where she was going to lead you.
But you knew about this.
Oh, yes. You noticed the way she does her hair.
Something else. My wife, Madeleine, has several pieces of jewelry that belonged to Carlotta. She inherited them. Never wore them, they were too oldfashioned... until now. Now, when she is alone, she gets them out and looks at them handles them gently, curiously... puts them on and stares at herself in the mirror... and goes into that other world... is someone else again.
Carlotta Valdes was what: your wife's grandmother?
Greatgrandmother. The child who was taken from her whose loss drove Carlotta mad and to her death  was Madeleine's grandmother.
Well, that explains it. Anyone could develop an obsession for the past, with a background like that.
But she doesn't know, about her background. She never heard of Carlotta Valdes.
Knows nothing of a grave out at Mission Dolores, or an old house an Eddy Street, or a portrait at the Palace of the Legion of Honor?
Nothing.
And when she goes to those places...
She is not my wife.
How do you know all these things she doesn't know?
Her mother told me most of then before she died. I dug out the rest for myself, here.
Why did she never tell her daughter?
Natural fear. Her grandmother went insane and took her own life. And the blood is in Madeleine. Scottie, I ask you to watch her closely.
He had no right to say that. It was my responsibility. You didn't know her. I shouldn't have got you involved.
I  I 
No, there's nothing you have to say to me. I'm getting out, Scottie. For good. I can't stay here. I'm winding up her affairs, and mine. I'm going to get as far away as I can. Probably Europe. And I'll probably never come back. Goodbye, Scottie. If there's anything I can do for you before I go...
Doctor, how long is it going to take you to pull him out of this?
It is hard to say. Six months, at least. Perhaps a year. It depends to a certain extent on him.
He won't talk.
No. We have ways of digging out knowledge. But it takes longer. He is suffering from acute melancholia, together with a guilt complex. He blames himself for what happened to the woman. And we know little of the background.
I can give you one thing: he was in love with her.
Ah? That complicates the problem.
I'll give you another complication: he still is.
Franky can't make it. He had an appointment he forgot, he's going to see you later. I'm Mickey Morrissey, we're supposed to get to know each other.
How'm I doing so far?
So far you're great. You got a cigarette?
Stearns, Harrington, you know who that is?
Should I?
A huge law firm. Okay? They put him in the firm, he's married, everything's superb. Franky, he's starting to talk like he comes from Dorsetshire, some fuckin' place, 'You must drop by with Pat and me...' Okay...?
Yes.
...and he's making a billion dollars every minute working for Stearns, Harrington, and he bought a dog, and everything is rosy. Then Mr. Stearns, he tried to fix a case.
The Big Boy did...?
That Frank was working on. Yeah. He thought Franky needed some help, so they bribed a juror. So Franky finds out. He comes to me in tears. He thinks that anybody who knows what a 'spinnaker' is got to be a saint. I told him ' Franky, wake up. These people are sharks. What do you think they got so rich from? Doing good?' He can't be comforted. He tells the boys at Stearns and Harrington they've disappointed him, he's going to the Judge to rat them out.
Huh.
Before he can get there here comes this Federal Marshal, and Franky's indicted for Jury tampering, they throw him in jail, he's gonna be disbarred, his life is over. Jimmy, gimme another drink. How are you?
Me, too.
Okay. Now, so he's in jail. He, finally, he gets to see the light, he calls up Harrington, he says he thinks he made a mistake. As if by magic, charges against him are dropped, he's released from jail. P.S. He's fired from the firm, his wife divorces him, he turns to drink and mopes around three and a half years. You like that story?
Dr. Towler...
Yes.
You have a record of what happened in the operating room...
Yes, that's correct.
...there are notations every thirty seconds...
Yes.
...of the procedures...
Yes, the roving nurse...
But those notations stop... ...fourandonehalf minutes after Deborah Ann Kaye's...
We, we were rather busy...
Fourandonehalf minutes after her heart stopped. And they resume seven minutes...
As I've said we had some more...
...they start again three minutes earlier...
We had rather more important things on our mind than taking notes. We were trying to restore her...
What happened in those three...
...we were trying to restore her heartbeat.
What happened in those three minutes...?
We'd gone to 'Code Blue,' we were administering electro...
Why did it take that long to get her heartbeat...
Brain damage could have been...it didn't necessarily take nine minutes, it could have been caused in two...
Wait, wait, wait, you're saying that her brain damage could have been caused by her being deprived of oxygen for two minutes...?
Yes.
Huh. And why is that?
Because she was anemic. It's right there on her chart. Her brain was getting less oxygen anyway...
Another, Frank . . . ?
...everybody. Mike says, `Pat, you mean to tell me for a buck you get a free lunch and a beer, and then you go in the back and get laid?' `That's correct.' Mike says, `Pat. Have you been in this bar ?' Pat says, `No, but my sister has ...' Everyone. Buy yourself one too.
I want to buy you a drink.
Thanks, Franky.
Well, well, well. Huh?
Yeah.
It's a long road that has no turning.
That's for sure, Frank.
Hi.
Hi. How are you doing?
I've been meaning to come in a long time.
You live in the neighborhood?
Uhhuh. My nephew's going to be staying with us in a few months, so I stopped by.
How old is he?
Four. You're great with these kids.
Thank you.
You're really... You, are you the one they told me was the nurse?
Who told you that?
Mrs...
Mrs. Simmonds.
Yes.
I used to be a nurse.
That's a wonderful profession. My daughterinlaw's a nurse. What did you do, stop?
Kathy Price...
Yes...
You were the Admitting Nurse at St. Catherine Laboure Hospital on May twelfth, nineteen seventysix, the night Deborah Ann Kaye was admitted...
Yes.
Yes.
These are your initials, 'K.C.'?
Kathy Costello. That's my maiden name.
D'you ask the patient when did she last eat?
Yes.
What did she say?
She said she had a full meal one hour before coming to the hospital.
One hour.
Yes.
And did you write the numeral `one' down on the record, standing for one hour?
I did.
A single hour.
Yes.
I spoke to her, and everything is all right.
I, what are you talking about? I talked to her this morning, and she said...
She told me.
She did?
I just saw her.
In New York?
What?
You saw Kat in New York... ...or is she in town? Is she in town...?
I'm ... Mrs. Doneghy? I'm Frank Galvin ... why didn't you go in?
It's locked.
It's locked?
It's not a good case. It's a very good case. A healthy young woman goes into the hospital to deliver her third child, she's given the wrong anaesthetic ...
... we, we love her, Dick and me ...
... I'm sure you do ...
But what can we do? She don't know who's visiting her ...
... I know. I went ...
... You saw her?
Yes. Yes, I have.
You know how beautiful she was? Her husband left her, and he took her kids .... They, they, they'd let you die in there. They don't care. Nobody cares. The Patriot Home, the Chronic Care ... in Arlington ...? They'd take her in. Perpetual care. They'd take her. Fifty thousand dollars they want. An endowment.
... fifty thousand dollars?
I don't want to leave her. Dick ...the, the ... and Father Laughlin, he said that it was God's will ...
... I understand ...
My doctor told me that I got to move out West ... that's when we filed in court. We didn't want to sue ...
... I understand ...
... But Dick, he's looking for two years in Tucson ... and they called him up and said to come out. He's a good man. He's only trying to do what's right.
He saw her at the Northern Care...
... and I have inquiries out to doctors, experts in the field ... there is, of course, a problem getting a doctor to testify that another doctor's negligent ...
We just can't do it anymore. This is our chance to get away.
I'm going to see you get that chance.
What does it mean? I...I mean we, you have other tactics...
We, yes. Yes. They, they present their side, and I get the same chance. To crossexamine... to... to...
Are we going to win? We have, you know, other tactics, though...
Yes.
Hi, Mickey ...
What the hell do you think you're doing ...? What's going on here ...?
Uh ...
Fuck you. I got a call today from Sally Doneghy ...
... now who is that ...?
... You're 'sposed to be in court in ten days and she's telling me you haven't even met with them ...
Sally Doneghy, now who is that?
One lousy letter eighteen months ago. . . .I try to throw a fuckin' case your way ...
... hey, I don't need your charity ...
... I get these people to trust you they're coming here tomorrow by the way I get this expert doctor to talk to you. I'm doing all your fuckin' legwork  and it's eighteen months. You're 'sposed to be in court. I bet you haven't even seen the file.
I have to talk to you.
What do you want?
Come on. Let's get a drink.
Don't touch anything.
Are you out of your mind...?
...I'm going to need your help...
You need my help...? You need a goddamn keeper...are you telling me that you turned down twohundred ten grand? Huh...? Are you nuts? Eh? Are you nuts. What are you going to do, bring her back to life?
I'm going to help her.
To do what...? To do what, for chrissake...? To help her to do what? She's dead...
They killed her. And they're trying to buy it...
That's the point, you stupid fuck. Let them buy it. We let them buy the case. That's what I took it for. You let this drop  we'll go up to New Hampshire, kill some fuckin' deer...
Mick. Mick. Mick...
What?
You  Listen: you said to me, `if not now, when...'
I know what I said but not now. You won it. Franky. You won it. When they give you the money, that means that you won. We don't want to go to court  is this getting to you...? You know who the attorney is for the Archdiocese, Eddie Concannon.
...he's a good man...
...he's a good man...? He's the Prince of Fuckin' Darkness...he'll have people in there testifying that the broad is well  they saw her Tuesday on a surfboard at Hyannis...don't fuck with this case.
...I have to stand up for her...
Frank, but not now. Frank. You're trying to wipe out some old business. But not now. I understand. But you go call 'em back. You call the Bishop back.
I have to try this case. I have to do it, Mick. I've got to stand up for that girl. I need your help. Mick, will you help me...? Will you help me...?
We've got her sister. Testifies she had a meal one hour before she was admitted to the hospital. This is the point.
You got the admittance form says patient ate nine hours prior to admittance.
Admittance form is wrong.
Forget it. You can't prove it. Sister's testimony is no good. Jury knows we win she gets the cash.
I've got my Dr. Gruber, says her heart condition means they gave her the wrong anaesthetic anyway, plus she came in complaining of stomach pains...
...Gruber's not bad.GALVIN Not bad...? This guy's Dr. Kildare, the jury's going to love him, Mick... And you calm down, all right? Their guy, Towler's, the author of the book, 'Methodology and Practice, Anesthesiology.' ...and they got depositions from the nurses, everybody in the operating room, the scrubnurse...'All these guys are God. I saw them walk on water...'
They had an obstetrical nurse in there. We got a deposition from the obstetrical nurse?
No.
'Mary Rooney, fortynine. Lives in Arlington, still working at the hospital.' Can you get out tomorrow? How come she isn't speaking up.
Right.
Okay now. Cases: Smith versus State of Michigan.
Right.
Brindisi versus Electric Boat.
You got a good memory, Franky.
I had a good teacher. McLean versus Urban Transport...
Jimmy? Bushmills. Lookit, do me a favor. I'll buy you a drink tomorrow.
Yeah? And what are you going to do tonight?
I'm going to get laid.
Been a long time, huh...?
I'm getting it back. Don't worry about me, Mick. I'm fine. D'you find the obstetric nurse?
Mary Rooney. She won't talk to me. I tried her at the hospital. I'm going to try her back at home. Read this.
So what?
So what...? The best is yet to come. Check the TV Guide. They got our Dr. Towler on a panel on GBH on Friday: 'The Healing Hand. The Experts Speak.'
They still have to take it to a jury.
What I'm saying, they're getting some help.
So what do you want me to do? Concannon's going to try the case his way, I'm going to try it mine. You want me to go wee wee wee all the time because he's got some flack, got stories in the newspaper. I'm going to win this case.
John: gimme a cuestaray.
Oh shit, what's today?
Today is Tuesday. What?
I've got to go see Gruber. What's the best cigars you have?
Give 'em a box of Macanudos.
Mickey: I'm supposed to meet somebody at O'Rourke's, I can't make it.
What happened, Joey...?
I can't talk now.
D'you meet with Dr. Gruber...?
Yeah? How's our new witness?
D'you find the obstetric nurse?
She's workin' the late shift at the Hospital. She's at home now, I'm going over there to talk to...
Gimme the address. I'm gonna go. We're going to need her.
How are you holding up?
I'm swell.
And all we've got is a witch doctor!
Yeah.
Okay. What do you do when you don't have a witness?
You use their witness.
That's right.
I think we tried that. The case is over.
Are you with me...are you awake...?
Yeah. I'm awake.
Rooney's protecting someone. Who is she protecting?
The Doctors.
She's protecting the Doctors she'd be up there on the stand...
Read me what she said.
`You guys are a bunch of whores...uh...loyalty...you don't care who gets hurt...you don't have any loyalty...'
...one of the other nurses?
Who? They're all testifying. Everybody who was in the O.R.'s going to take the stand.
All right. Who wasn't in the O.R.?
What difference can that make...? All right...
Uh...the admitting nurse...
What did she do?
She didn't do anything. She took the patient's history and signed the charts. 'K.C.' 'Kathy Costello...'
The 'History'...?
How old are you, how many children ... when did you last eat ...
We don't have anything from the Nurse Association?
The broad has disappeared...
The Hospital...?
...yeah...good...
...you need some old forms that she had...somebody's dying...
...four years ago...
Hello. This is Mr. Dorchester in Records. We're looking for Kathy Costello...
I need a cigarette! She left my office four years ago, we're looking for a chart... I need a cigarette...
What the hell are you doing here?
We got to talk.
What are you doing in New York...?
Come on, we'll get a cup of coffee...
I talked to Johnnie White at the Bar Association. The broad used to work for one of Concannon's partners in New York awhile ago. She wanted to move to Boston. How badly did she hurt us, Joe?
I don't know.
We got a mistrial, you know. Joe  did you hear what I said...?
I don't want a mistrial.
Dr. Gruber.
Dr. Gruber's not in.
I had an appointment at his office, I think I must have got it wrong. We had a meeting...
He's not in, Sir.
Where is he?
I...please. My wife...my wife's prescription has run out. If I can call him...
Dr. Halpern's taking all his...
No, no, no. I have to talk to him. If I can only call him..
He's...you can't reach him, Sir. He's in the, on some island in the Caribbean, they don't have a phone. He'll be back in a week... If you'd like Dr. Halpern's number...
D'you find an apartment?
Still looking.
I changed my life today. What did you do?
I changed my room at the Hotel.
Why?
The TV didn't work.
What Hotel are you staying at?
And what are you? A cop?
I'm a lawyer.
My exhusband was a lawyer.
Really. How wonderful for you.
Yes. It was, actually.
Oh, actually it was. Then why'd you call it off?
Who says I'm the one that called it off?
A brick house says you divorced him. I'll put you on your honor. Bet you a hundred dollars against you join me for dinner. And I'll take your word for it. Now you tell me the truth. Because you cannot lie to me. What's your name?
Laura.
My name's Frank. And furthermore, you came back to see me tonight.
What if it wasn't you that I came back to see?
You just got lucky. D'you eat yet? Come on.
The weak, the weak have got to have somebody to fight for them. Isn't that the truth? You want another drink?
I think I will.
Jimmy! That's why the court exists. The court doesn't exist to give them justice, eh? But to give them a chance at justice.
And are they going to get it?
They might. Yes. That's the point ...is that they might...you see, the jury wants to believe. They're all cynics, sure, because they want to believe. I have to go in there tomorrow to find twelve people to hear this case. I'm going to see a hundred people and pick twelve. And every one of them it's written on their face, `This is a sham. There is no justice...' but in their heart they're saying, 'Maybe...maybe...'
Maybe what?
Maybe I can do something right.
And is that what you're going to do? Is that what you're going to do...?
That's what I'm going to try to do.
Would you like me to leave...? Is this a bad time ?
What...?
Is this a bad time.
We, we...No...we just had a small reversal in the case... I have some, uh...I have some work to do...
What happened...?
They, uh, they got to my witness.
...and is that serious?
I've got to work...
Do you want me to go...?
No, no, I'm just...
Why don't you get some rest?
I've got to work.
You can't work if you can't think. You get in bed. It's all right. I'll stay here with you. It's all right. Come on...
You're going to stay here...?
Yes.
Do you think it's my fault?
Isn't there something you...
That's not the question. It's over. Do you think that it's my fault? If I'd...if I'd...I never should have taken it. There was no way that I was going to win.
You're talking like a drunk.
That's what I am.
And it's over...?
Yes.
Well, then what are you doing here?
I...do you want me to leave?
You do what you want. You want to leave...You want to go kill yourself?
I...
You want me to tell you it's your fault? It probably is. What are you going to do about it? I thought it's not over till the jury comes in.
Who told you that?
You told me so. Maybe you'd get some sympathy. You came to the wrong place.
And what makes you so tough?
Maybe I'll tell you later.
Is there going to be a later...?
Not if you don't grow up...
If I don't 'grow up...'
You're like a kid, you're coming in here like it's Saturday night, you want me to say that you've got a fever  you don't have to go to school...
You, you don't under...
Oh, yes, I do, Joe. Believe me. You say you're going to lose. Is it my fault? Listen! The damned case doesn't start until tomorrow and already it's over for you!
It's over!
What is your wife's picture doing by the side of your...
What is that to you...?
What would you like it to be to me...? I, I, I can't invest in failure.
Joe... Joe...
Stop pressuring me...
You're pressuring yourself...
No...no...
Yes. We've all got to let go.
Is it over?
No.
What are you going to do?
I don't have a goddamned idea.
Thank you.
I have to talk to you.
Call the A.M.A. to Laura) ...I can't talk now. ...tell them you're Dr. Somebody...you have to find this nurse...
Continental Casualty...
Mr. Alito, please.
Business hours are over, Sir. This is the switch...
I have to reach him. This is an emergency. Could you give me his home number?
I'm sorry, Sir, we're not allowed...
...Would you, would you call him up. I'll give you my number, and ask him...
I can't guarantee that...
I understand. Thank you, my name is Galvin. I'll be at the following number in a half an hour. It's urgent.
Mr. Galvin's...
Let me talk to Mickey.
Hello, I'm calling from...
If you're selling something, I'm late for work...
I'm calling from Professional Nurse Quarterly...
From the magazine?
This is Mr. Wallace in Subscriptions?
How come you're calling me from...?
This is Miss Costello...?
Yes. Price...
Pardon?
Kathy Price.
We find that your subscription lapsed...
My subscription lapsed three years ago...
That's why I'm calling, Miss Price...
Missus...
We have a renewyoursubscription offer...
We get it at work. We get the magazine at work.
Yes, we know that you do. I have it in my files. That's at the Manhattan Health Center...
No. At Chelsea Childcare. Okay. Look, call me Monday, hey? I'm late for work.
Yessir. I'm sorry.
Why is that?
I was held up.
Now, have you boys tried to resolve your little difficulty because that certainly would save the Commonwealth a lot of time and bother.
This is a complicated case, your Honor...
I'm sure it is, Frank: and let me tell you something. If we find it so complex, how in the hell you think you're going to make a jury understand it? See my point? Let's talk a minute. Frank: what will you and your client take right now this very minute to walk out of here and let this damn thing drop?
My client can't walk, your Honor.
I know full well she can't, Frank. You see the Padre on your way out and he'll punch your ticket. You follow me? I'm trying to help you.
That's it...? Come on, guys...life is too short... You tell me if you're playing 'chicken,' or you mean it. Frank: I don't think I'm talking out of school, but I just heard someone offer you two hundred grand...and that's a lot of money...and if I may say, you haven't got the best of records.
...things change.
...that's true. Sometimes they change, sometimes they don't. Now, I remember back to when you were disbarred...
I wasn't disbarred, they dropped the pro...
And it seems to me, a fella's trying to come back, he'd take this settlement, and get a record for himself. I myself would take it and run like a thief.
I'm sure you would.
What is it?
Thank you for seeing me.
That's perfectly all right.
I need an extension for my case.
You should have taken their offer. Especially if you were unprepared.
I had a witness disappear on me.
That happens.
I could subpoena him if I had a week.
I don't have a week. This case never should have come to trial. You know better. You're Mr. Independent. You want to be independent? Be independent now. I've got no sympathy for you.
Is the Plaintiff ready?
Ready, your Honor.
Defense...?
Do we have time this morning to... All right. Mr. Galvin, you want to continue now, or we can resume with Dr. Thompson this afternoon.
Thank you, your Honor, I'll continue. Dr. Thompson. Did you examine Deborah Ann Kaye last night at The Northern Chronic Care Facility?
Sustained. Yes. The witness will confine his testimony to review of the hospital records.
What?
I believe that's the law...is it not, Mr. Galvin...?
Yes, Mr. Galvin?
If I may be permitted to question my own witness in my own way...
I'd just like to get to the point, Mr. Galvin. Let's not waste these people's time. Answer the question, Mr. Witness. Please. Would a nineminute lapse in restoring the heartbeat in and of itself be negligence?
I got a letter from the Judge Advocate's office on you today, fella, you're on your way out...They should have kicked you out on that Lillibridge case. Now this is it today.
I'm an attorney on trial before the bar. Representing my client. My client, do you understand? You open your mouth and you're losing my case for me.
Listen to me, fella...
No, no, you listen to me. All I wanted in this case is an even shake. You rushed me into court in five days...my star witness disappears, I can't get a continuance, and I don't give a damn. I'm going up there and I'm going to try it. Let the Jury decide. They told me Sweeney he's a hardass, he's a defendant's judge. I don't care. I said, the hell with it. The hell with it. I'll take my chances he'll be fair.
Galvin, look, many years ago...
And don't give me this shit, 'I was a lawyer, too.' 'Cause I know who you were. You couldn't hack it as a lawyer. You were Bag Man for the Boys and you still are. I know who you are.
Are you done?
Damn right I'm done. I'm going to ask for a mistrial and I'm going to request that you disqualify yourself from sitting on this case. I'm going to take a transcript to the State and ask that they impeach your ass.
You aren't going to get a mistrial, boy. We're going back this afternoon, we're going to try this case to an end. Now you get out of here before I call the Bailiff and have you thrown in jail.
Nothing further, your Honor...
Mr. Concannon...?
I object, your Honor...
Overruled...
Exception!
Noted. Thank you. Miss Costello was a rebuttal witness. Her sole rebuttal was the document, which has been disallowed...
I'm Joe Galvin, I'm representing Deborah Ann Kaye, case against St. Catherine Laboure.
I told the guy I didn't want to talk to...
I'll just take a minute. Deborah Ann Kaye. You know what I'm talking about. The case is going to trial. Our chief witness is a Dr. David Gruber, you know who he is?
No.
He's the Assistant Chief of Anesthesiology, Massachusetts Commonwealth. He says your doctors, Towler and Marx, put my girl in the hospital for life. And we can prove that. What we don't know is why. What went on in there? In the O.R. That's what we'd like to know. Something went wrong. And you know what it was. They gave her the wrong anesthetic. What happened? The phone rang...someone got distracted...what?
...you got your doctor's testimony. Why do you need me?
I want someone who was in the O.R. We're going to win the case, there's no question of that. It's just a matter of how big...
I've got nothing to say to you.
You know what happened.
Nothing happened.
Then why aren't you testifying for their side?
I can subpoena you, you know. I can get you up there on the stand.
And ask me what?
Who put my client in the hospital for life.
I didn't do it, Mister.
Who are you protecting, then?
Who says that I'm protecting anyone?
I do. Who is it? The Doctors. What do you owe them?
I don't owe them a goddamn thing.
Then why don't you testify?
You know, you're pushy, fella...
You think I'm pushy now, wait 'til I get you on the stand...
Well, maybe you better do that, then. You know you guys are all the same. You don't care who gets hurt. You're a bunch of whores. You'd do anything for a dollar. You got no loyalty...no nothing...you're a bunch of whores.
Dr. Gruber ...
Yes? Galvin, right?
I appreciatea man as busy as
That's perfectly all right. I'm kind of rushed. Do you mind if we walk while we talk?
I read the hospital report on your client.
... Deborah Ann Kaye ...
... Deborah Ann Kaye ...
They called, they're going to settle, what I want to do is build up as much ...
Right. Who called?
The Archdiocese called, they want to settle ... her estate ...
... and you're going to do that?
Yes.
You're going to settle out of court?
Yes.
Why?
Uh ... in the, well, in the interests of her family ... you, Dr. Gruber, you know, you can never tell what a jury is going to do. St. Catherine's a very well thought of institution. Her doctors ...
Her doctors killed her.
) I'm sorry ...?
Her doctors murdered her. They gave her the wrong anaesthetic and they put her in the hospital for life. Her doctors murdered her.
Do you know who her doctors were?
I read the file. Yeah. Marx and Towler. I know who they were.
The most respected ...
Whose side are you arguing ...? I thought that you wanted to do something. I don't have any interest in the woman's 'estate'  No offense, but we all know where the money's going to ... I have an interest in the Hospital; and I don't want those bozos working in the same shop as me. They gave her the wrong anesthetic. They turned the girl into a vegetable. They killed her and they killed her kid. You caught 'em. Now: how many others did they kill?
The hospital is owned by the Archdioceses of ...
What are they going to do? Not invite me to their Birthday party ...? Look, I gotta go. I have to be in Cambridge ...
Well, well, when can we meet again. I'd like to get a deposition..
Okay. I'll meet you here. Tuesday night ... I gotta go. You going my way?
We have to ... we ... we have to keep you under wraps. Please don't, don't discuss ...
I understand.
... the case with anyone. And I'll meet you Tuesday, and we'll go over your testimony ...
Thank you ...
... that's perfectly all right.
Uh, why, why are you doing this?
To do right. Isn't that why you're doing it?
Dr. Towler; page 406, 'Contraindications to general anaesthetic. Ideally a patient should refrain from taking nourishment up to nine hours prior to induction of general anaesthetic.' Does that sound familiar?
Yes. I wrote it.
'Practice and Methodology in Anaesthesia.' General textbook on the subject. Is that correct?
I. Yes. It is.
And you wrote that...
Yes.
...Page 414, 'If a patient has taken nourishment within one hour prior to inducement, general anaesthetic should be avoided at all costs because of the grave risk the patient will aspirate food particles into his mask.' Is that what happened to Deborah Ann Kaye? She aspirated into her mask?
She threw up in her mask, yes. But she hadn't eaten one hour prior to admission.
If she had eaten, say one hour prior to admission, the inducement of a general anaesthetic...the type you gave her... would have been negligent...?
Negligent. Yes...it would have been criminal. But that was not the case.
Thank you.
Dr. Thompson...?
It was good of you to meet...
I have some errands to run, and then I thought we'd spend the evening...
That's what I'd planned to...
I'm going to take you to the home to see the girl...
From what I've seen, Mr. Galvin, you have a very good case...
Yes. Yes. I think so. I hope you'll be comfortable. I'm putting you up at my...
...I made a reservation at...
...apartment. No, no. Please. You don't know who we're dealing with, I, please believe me, they...
...What difference would...
These people play very rough. They don't want to lose this case. There's a lot of pressure they can bring to bear, I...
There's nothing they can do to me.
Dr. Thompson. From your review of the hospital records of May twelfth nineteen seventysix. In your opinion, what happened to Deborah Ann Kaye?
Cardiac arrest. During delivery her heart stopped. When the heart stops the brain's deprived of oxygen. You get brain damage. That is why she's in the state she's in today.
Now, Dr. Towler's testified that they restored the heartbeat within three or four minutes. In your opinion is his estimate correct?
It's my opinion it took him much longer. Nine...ten minutes. There's too much brain damage.
I didn't do too well for you.
No, you did fine.
I'm afraid that's not true. Will you want me to stay on till Monday?
No. No thank you, Doctor. You go home.
You know...sometimes people can surprise you. Sometimes they have a great capacity to hear the truth.
Yes...I...yes.
You sure you don't want me to stay on.
No. No. Thank you. You go home.
Are you saying that a failure to restore the heartbeat within nine minutes in itself constitutes bad medical practice?
Well...
I...in that small context I would have...I would have to say 'no.'
Then you're saying there's no negligence, based on my question?
I...given the limits of your question, that's correct.
The Doctors were not negligent.
I...um...
They gave her the wrong anesthetic.
Why is that?
Her sister said she ate one hour prior to admittance...she...
...that's what the sister said. The chart said she ate nine hours prior to...
...she went in complaining of stomach cramps. Good doctor would have doubted the information on the chart.
Is that what a good doctor would do? How old are you, please?
I am seventyfour years old.
What qualifies you as an expert in anesthetics?
I am on the staff of...
Easthampton Hospital for Women. Excuse me, what is that, a joke? Let me tell you something, Doctor, those men at Catherine Laboure. Men who are known not only in this city, but the world, were trying to save a woman's life. They were there, and here you are, four years later, read some hospital report, and say...
...I made a detailed physical examination of the patient, Sir, yesterday evening, I...
She getting good care over there?
Actually, yes. It's by no means bad, I...
Then what good would it do to ruin the reputation of two men, to help a girl whose life's not going to be changed in the least? You know what CODE BLUE means?
'Code Blue'...
It's a common medical term.
Please sit down. I told your wife. I'm sorry that we have to meet out here. I've got a case coming in two days in the Superior Court and my office is a mess of papers.
... that's all right.
I was telling your wife, we have a very good case here.
...the Archdiocese called up, they said who was our attorney, 'cause the case is coming to trial...
I doubt we'll have to go to trial ...
... we told them we didn't want it to come out this way.
I completely understand ...
We just ...
What is this going to cost?
It's completely done on a contingency basis. That means whatever the settlement is I retain onethird ...that is, of course, the usual arrangement ...
You said you're gonna call me up. You didn't call me up. Who do you think you are? Who do you think you are...?
Hold on a second.
I'm going to have you disbarred. I'm going to have your ticket. You know what you did? Do you know what you did?
It's all right, Mickey.
You ruined my life, Mister...Me and my wife...and I am going to ruin yours... You don't have to go out there to see that girl. We been going four years. Four years...my wife's been crying herself to sleep what they, what, what they did to her sister.
I swear to you I wouldn't have turned the offer down unless I thought that I could win the case...
What you thought!? What you thought...I'm a workingman, I'm trying to get my wife out of town, we hired you, we're paying you, I got to find out from the other side they offered two hundred...
I'm going to win this case...Mist...Mr. Doneghy...I'm going to the Jury with a solid case, a famous doctor as an expert witness, and I'm going to win eight hundred thousand dollars.
You guys, you guys, you're all the same. The Doctors at the hospital, you...it's 'What I'm going to do for you'; but you screw up it's `We did the best that we could. I'm dreadfully sorry...' And people like me live with your mistakes the rest of our lives.
If I could accept the offer right now, I would. They took it back.
I understand. I went to the Bar Association. They tell me you're going to be disbarred.
You are aware of the penalties for perjury...?
It's a crime.
Yes. It is a crime. A serious crime.
I wouldn't do it.
You would not...?
No.
In fact, you've just taken an oath that you would not commit perjury. You've just sworn to that. Isn't that right?
Yes.
Just now...
Yes.
...sworn before God you would tell the truth?
Yes.
Now. I'd like to ask you something: four years ago, when you were working as a nurse, are you aware that Drs. Towler and Marx based their treatment of Deborah Ann Kaye on this chart that you signed . . . ?
I . . ..
And wasn't that an oath...? These are your initials here: K.C. When you signed this chart you took an oath. No less important than that which you took today. Isn't that right? Isn't that right...?
I...yes.
Then, please, which is correct? You've sworn today the patient ate one hour ago. Four years ago you swore she ate nine hours ago? Which is the lie. When were you lying?
I...
You know these doctors could have settled out of court. They wanted a trial. They wanted to clear their names.
They lied.
`They lied.' Indeed! When did they lie? And do you know what a lie is?
I do. Yes.
You swore on this form that the patient ate nine hours ago.
That's not my handwriting.
You've just said you signed it.
Yes, I, yes, I signed it, yes. But I, I didn't write that figure.
You didn't write that figure. And how is it that you remember that so clearly after four years?
Because I kept a copy. I have it right here.
...what in the world would induce you to make a photocopy of some obscure record and hold it fouryears? This is a...why? Why would you do that?
I thought I would need it.
And why, please tell us, would you think that?
After, after the operation, when that poor girl, she went in a coma. Dr. Towler called me in. He told me he had five difficult deliveries in a row and he was tired, and he never looked at the admittance form. And he told me to change the form. He told me to change the one to a nine. Or else, or else, he said... He said he'd fire me. He said I'd never work again....Who were these men...? Who were these men...? I wanted to be a nurse...
Your Honor, Bishop Brophy and the Archdiocese have offered plaintiff two hundred and ten thousand dollars.
Huh!
My doctors didn't want a settlement at any price. They wanted this cleared up in court. They want their vindication. I agree with them. But for today the offer stands. Before we begin the publicity of a trial. For today only. When I walk out that door the offer is withdrawn. As long as you understand that. It's got to be that way.
Mr. Concannon...?
Nothing further, your Honor.
Mr. Galvin, rebuttal?
Objection! This is ri...expect us to accept a photocopy, we have the original right...
I'll rule on that presently. Proceed.
No further questions.
You may step down.
Thank you, your Honor. We object to the copy of the admissions form as incompetemt and essentially hearsay evidence and cite McGee versus State of Indiana, U.S. 131 point 2 and 216 through 25 of the Uniform Code: 'The admission of a duplicate document in preference to an existing original must presuppose the possibility of alteration and so must be disallowed.' And, your Honor, having given the Plaintiff the leeway we would like your ruling on this issue now: we object to the admission of the Xerox form.
...one moment, Mr. Concannon...
The document is disallowed, the jury will be advised not to consider the testimony of Kathy Costello regarding the Xerox form. It's unsubstantiated and we can't accept a copy in preference to the original...
Thank you, your Honor. Further: Ms. Costello is a rebuttal witness. As a `Surprise Witness' she may only serve to rebut direct testimony. As her only evidentiary rebuttal was the admitting form, which has been disallowed I request that her entire testimony be disallowed and the jury advised that they must totally disregard her appearance here.
I'm going to uphold that.
Dr. Thompson, just so the Jury knows, you never treated Deborah Ann Kaye. Is that correct?
That is correct. I was engaged to render an opinion.
Engaged to render an opinion. For a price. Is that correct? You're being paid to be here today?
Just as you are, Sir...
Are you boardcertified in anesthesiology, Doctor?
No, I am not. It's quite common in New York State...
...I'm sure it is, but this is Massachusetts, Doctor. Certified in Internal Medicine?
No.
Neurology?
No.
Orthopedics?
I'm just an M.D.
Do you know Dr. Robert Towler...?
I know of him.
How is that?
Through, through his book.
What book is that?
Meth...Methodology and Technique...
...of Anesthesiology?
`Methodology and Techniques of Anesthesiology.' Yes.
How old are you?
I am seventyfour years old.
Uhhuh. Still practice a lot of medicine?
I'm on the staff of...
Yes, we've heard that. Doctor: you testify quite a bit against other physicians? Isn't that right? You, you're available for that? When you're paid to be there?
Sir. Yes. When a thing is wrong...as in this case, I am available. I am seventyfour years old, I am not boardcertified. I have been practicing medicine for fortysix years and I know when an injustice has been done.
Do you, indeed. I'll bet you do. Fine. Fine. We'll save the court the time. We will admit the Doctor as an `expert witness,' fine.
I did.
Objection.
Ed Concannon.
Frank Galvin. We've met before.
Objection, we've...
...to get her heartbeat back...?
We've touched on this, his own witness has said...
...almost nine minutes... causing brain damage.
Your Honor...! Your Honor...
Objection!
And you would come here, and on a slip of memory four years ago, you'd ruin their lives.
No, actually, she was referred to me. She was Dr. Hagman's patient...
Don't equivocate. Be positive. Just tell the truth.
Whatever the `truth' is, let's hear that. You were her doctor.
Yes.
Say it.
I was her doctor.
You were the anesthesiologist at her delivery May twelfth, nineteen seventy...
...I was one of a group of...
Answer affirmatively. Simply. Keep those answers to three words. You weren't `part of a group,' you were her anesthesiologist. Isn't that right?
Yes.
You were there to help Dr. Marx deliver her baby. Were you not?
Yes.
Anything special about the case?
When she...
Thank you. When Debby...
Dr. Towler, who was in the operating room with you?
Ms. Nevins, nurseanesthetist; Dr.Marx, of course...
Mary Rooney, the obstetrical nurse...
What did these people do when her heart stopped?
We went to Code Blue...
`Code Blue,' what does that mean...?
It's a common medical expression, it's a crash program to restore the heartbeat. Dr. Marx cut an airway in her trachea, to get her oxygen, her and the baby...Ms.Nevins...
Why wasn't she getting oxygen...?
Well, many reasons, actually...
Tell me one?
She'd aspirated vomitus into her mask...
She THREW UP IN HER MASK. Let's cut the bullshit. Say it: She THREW UP IN HER MASK.
...and her heart stopped and she wasn't getting oxygen.
That's right.
And what did your team do...
Well, we...
...You brought thirty years of medical experience to bear. Isn't that what you did?
Yes.
...A patient riddled with complications, questionable information on her, on her admitting form...
...We did everything we could...
...to save her and to save the baby. Is that...
Yes!
You reached down into death. Now, isn't that right?
My God, we tried to save her...You can't know...You can't know...
Tell us.
What are you doing here?
Mickey told me to come back to work.
... here's your mail, call Mrs. Doneghy ...
... yes. Get her on the phone ...
... that was a Dr. David Gruber's office ...
Gruber...
Mickey told him to call. 'He's some very hotshot surgeon at Mass. Commonwealth. He wants to meet with you at seven tonight re testimony in the case of Deborah Ann Kaye. You meet him at the hospital.'
... he wants to testify ...?
It looks that way.
You know what that would mean? To get somebody from a Boston hospital to say he'll testify?
... a Mrs. Doneghy called ... I told you that.
This is going to drive the ante up.
Frank Galvin's ... who's calling please? Bishop Brophy's office ...
That's the call that I'm waiting for.
What does it mean?
They want to settle. It means a lot of money.
Does that mean I'm back for awhile?
It's a generous offer, Mr. Galvin... ...nothing can make the woman well...but we try to compensate...to make a gesture...
How did you settle on the amount?
We thought it was just.
You thought it was just.
Yes.
Because it struck me how neatly 'three' went into the amount. Two Hundred Ten Thousand. That would mean I keep seventy.
That was our insurance company's recommendation.
Yes. It would be.
Nothing that we can do can make that woman well.
And no one will know the truth.
What is the truth?
That that poor girl put her trust in the hands of two men who took her life, she's in a coma, her life is gone. She has no family, she has no home, she's tied to a machine, she has no friends and the people who should care for her: her Doctors, and you, and me, have been bought off to look the other way. We have been paid to look the other way. I came in here to take your money. I brought snapshots to show you. So I could get your money. I can't take it. If I take it. If I take that money I'm lost. I'm just going to be a rich ambulance chaser. I can't do it. I can't take it.
He was accused of jury tampering.
Accused. Not indicted. He resigned the firm. Divorced nineteen seventy. Galvin worked with Michael Morrissey until Morrissey retired in 'seventyeight. Since then he's been on his own. Four cases before the Circuit Court. He lost them all. He drinks.
Four cases in three years ...
The man's an ambulance chaser ...
... tell me about this case.
This is a nuisance suit. He's looking for small change. He's asking for six hundred thousand and betting we don't want to go to court.
No  we don't want this case in court.
Neither does he. That's where he loses. This man's scared to death to go to court. We only have to call his bluff.
I want to settle this thing and be done with it. I don't want the Archdiocese exposed.
No. Absolutely, and we're going to see that it is not.
So what I want to do is stop it here. I'm going to make him an offer. I want to do it myself. I want it to come from me.
All right. But let's keep the price down. I've called Ed Concannon. He recommends that we continue to respond as if we're going to trial.
If we were to go to trial, would we win the case?
Well, of course, it's always dangerous ...
I know that answer. If we went to trial would we win?
Yes.
Why did he go to see Mary Rooney?
She's the only nurse who isn't testifying for the Doctors.
What did he find?
Nothing.
How good's your intelligence?
Very good.
And so what is the rest of his case aside from Dr. Thompson?
As far as we know, nothing.
Mr. Abraham...
Abrams...
Abrams. Yes. How are you today?
I'm fine.
Good. You ever been inside a hospital?
Yes.
Ah. How did they treat you?
My client offers his full cooperation in these proceedings. In exchange, his testimony is to be sealed and all matters incriminating to himself are to be rendered inadmissible.
The district attorney's office will comply provided 
No provisions, nothing. My clients testimony for his immunity.
MayI be frank, Counselor? I suspect your political power as much as I respect it. I don't know why Mr. Kint has so many faceless allies in City Hall, and I don't care. The embarrassment he helped cause the city of New York will not happen here.
Immunity.
Counselor, I will prosecute your client.
Then prosecute. I will be very impressed to see if the District Attorney manages to bring in twentyseven simultaneous counts of murder against one man with cerebral palsy. I would think a man with your job would agree with these alleged &quot;faceless people in City Hall&quot; you mention.
I'11 take my chances then. I'11 feel safer without a job if a man like Mr. Kint is behind bars.
Mr. Kint will plead guilty to weapons possession.
You're joking.
Weapons. Misdemeanor one.
Counselor, you're insulting me.
Counselor, you're bluffing. Shall I push for misdemeanor two?
Verbal, you know we're trying to help you.
Sure. And I appreciate that. And I want to help you, Agent Kujan. I like cops. I would have liked to have been a Fed myself but my C.P. was 
Verbal, I know you know something. I know you're not telling us everything.
I told the D.A. everything I know.
I know you liked Keaton I know you think he was a good man.
I know he was good.
He was a corrupt cop, Verbal.
Sure. Fifteen years ago, but he was a good thief Anyway, the cops wouldn't let him go legit.
Keaton was a piece of shit.
You trying to get a rise out of me, Agent Kujan?
I just want to hear your story.
According to your statement you are a shortcon operator. Run of the mill seams. Everything you do, you learned from somebody else.
That's been suppressed. Anything in there is inadmissible.
Oh, I know. Sweet deal you have. Total immunity .
Well I do have the weapons charge. I'm looking at six whole months hard time.
You know a dealer named Ruby Deemer, Verbal?
You know a religious guy named John Paul?
You know Ruby is in Attica?
He didn't have my lawyer.
I know Ruby. He's very big on respect. Likes me very much.
There's nothing in there about Ruby.
I'11 be sure to mention that to him.
The first thing I learned on the job, know what it was? How to spot a murderer. Let's say you arrest three guys for the same killing. Put them all in jail overnight. The next morning, whoever is sleeping is your man. If you're guilty, you know you're caught, you get some rest  let your guard down, you follow?
No.
I'11 get right to the point. I'm smarter than you. I'11 find out what I want to know and I'11 get it from you whether you like it or not.
I'm not a rat.
Heartwarming. Really, I feel weepy.
You wanted to know what happened after the lineup, I'm telling you.
Oh come on, Verbal. Who do you think you're talking to? You really expect me to believe he retired? For a woman? Bullshit. He was using her.
He loved her.
Sure. And I'm supposed to believe that hitting the Taxi Service wasn't his idea
That was all Fenster and McManus.
Come on. Keaton was a cop for four years. Who else would know the Taxi Service
You keep trying to lay this whole ride on t Keaton. It wasn't like that. Sure he knew, but Edie had him all turned around. r I'm telling you straight, I swear. +
Let me tell you something. I know Dean Keaton. I've been investigating him for three years. The guy I know is a cold + blooded bastard. L.A.P.D. indicted him on three counts of murder before he was kicked off the force, so don't sell me the hooker with the heart of gold. +
You got him wrong.
Do I? Keaton was under indictment a total + of seven times when he was on the force. + In every case, witnesses either reversed + their testimony to the grand jury or died + before they could testify. When they t finally did nail him for fraud, he spent + five years in Sing Sing. He killed three prisoners inside  one with a knife in the tailbone while he strangled him to death. Of course I can't prove this but I can't prove the best part either.
I don't know about that.
I don't think you do. But you say you saw Keaton die. I think you're covering his ass and he's still out there somewhere. I think he was behind that whole circus in the harbor. My bet is he's using you because you're stupid and you think he's your friend. You tell me he's dead, so be it. I want to make sure he's dead before I go back to New York.
He wasn't behind anything. It was the lawyer.
What lawyer?
You think I don't know you held out on the D.A.? What did you leave out of that testimony? I can be on the phone to Ruby Deemer in ten minutes.
The D.A. gave me immunity.
NOT FROM ME, YOU PIECE OF SHIT. THERE IS NO IMMUNITY FROM ME. You atone with me or the world you live in becomes the hell you fear in the back of your tiny mind. Every criminal I have put in prison,
There was a lawyer. Kobayashi.
Is he the one that killed Keaton?
No. But I'm sure Keaton's dead.
Convince me. Tell me every last detail. 52 SCENE DELETED 52 53 INT. HOSPITAL  DAY 53 + Kovash's room is now filled with people. Jack Baer stands next to DANIEL METZHEISER, a balding man in his forties. Next to him is Doctor Plumber. Across from her is Ridgly Waiters.
So this lawyer...
Kobayashi.
Came from Redfoot.
Right.
And why leave this out when you talked to the D.A.?
Do you believe in him, Verbal?
Keaton always said: &quot;I don't believe in God, but I'm afraid of him.&quot; Well I believe in God, and the only thing that scares me is Keyser SOZE.
I came clean. I told it like it happened on the boat. So what if I left out how I got there? It's got so many holes in it, the D.A. would've told me to blow amnesty out my ass. So you got what you wanted out of me. Big fucking deal.
And this is why you never told the D.A.
You tell me, Agent Kujan. If I told you the Loch Ness Monster hired me to hit the harbor, what would you say?
Turn state's evidence. Take the stand on this and we'll hear it out.
I've got immunity now. What can you possibly offer me?
If there is a Keyser Soze he'll be looking for you.
Where's your head, Agent Kujan? Where do you think the pressure's coming from? Keyser Soze  or whatever you want to call him  knows where I am right now. He's got the front burner under' your ass to let me go so he can scoop me up ten minutes later. Immunity was just to deal with you assholes. I got a whole new problem when I post bail.
So why play into his hands? We can protect you.
Gee, thanks, Dave. Bangup job so far. Extortion, coercion. You'll pardon me if I ask you to kiss my pucker. The same fuckers that rounded us up and sank us into this mess are telling me They'll bail me out? Fuck you. You think you can catch Keyser Soze? You think a guy like that comes this close to getting fingered and sticks his head out? If he comes up for anything, it will be to get rid of me. After that, my guess is you'll never hear from him again.
That was how I ended up in a barber shop quartet in Skokie, Illinois.
This is totally irrelevant.
Oh, but it's not. If I hadn't been nailed in Illinois for running a three card monte in between sets, I never would have took off for New York. I never would have met Keaton, see. That barber shop quartet was the reason for everything.
Can we just get back to Kobayashi?
The quartet is part of the bit about Kobayashi. The quartet was in my file, along with every other thing I had done since high school, see? Aliases, middle men. They knew me better than I did. They knew all of us.
You're stalling, Verbal.
Give a guy a break, huh?
What happened?
Then what?
McManus was furious. He was talking about tracking him down and ripping his heart out and all sorts of shit. That night we got the call.
What call?
Kobayashi told us where we could find Fenster.
I wanted to. I thought we could make it.
Why didn't you say anything?
I tried, believe me, but Keaton wouldn't have it. It was too farfetched for him. Keaton was a grounded guy. An excop. To a cop, the explanation is never that complicated. It's always simple. There's
A man in a suit with a slim build. Tall.
Wait a minute.
I don't have a minute. Are you saying it was Keyser Soze? You told the D.A. you didn't know who it was.
Don't shine me, Verbal. No more stalling. You know what I'm getting at.
I don't.
YES YOU DO. YOU KNOW WHAT I'M GETTING AT. THE TRUTH. TRY TO TELL ME YOU DIDN'T KNOW. TRY TO TELL ME YOU SAW SOMEONE KILL KEATON .
TRY TO REEF LYING TO ME NOW. I KNOW EVERYTHING .
I don't know what you're talking about.
YOU KNOW. YOU'VE KNOWN THIS WHOLE FUCKING TIME. GIVE IT TO ME.
I don't understand what you're saying. I saw Keaton get shot, I swear to you.
Then why didn't you help him?
I WAS AFRAID, OKAY? Somehow, I was sure it was Keyser Soze at that point. I couldn't bring myself to raise my gun to him.
But Keaton...
It was Keyser Soze, Agent Kujan. I mean the Devil himself. How do you shoot the Devil in the back?
He was a stool pigeon for the Justice Department. He swore out a statement to Federal Marshals that he had seen and could positively identify one Keyser Soze and had intimate knowledge of his business, including, but not exclusive to, drug trafficking and murder.
I never heard of him.
His own people were selling him to a gang of Hungarians. Most likely the same Hungarians that Sate all but wiped out back in Turkey. The money wasn't there for dope. The Hungarians were going to buy the one guy that could finger Soze for them.
I said I never heard of him.
But Keaton had. Edie Finneran was his extradition advisor. She knew who he was and what he knew.
I don't
There were no drugs on that boat. It was a hit. A suicide mission to whack out the one man that could finger Keyser Soze so Sate had a few thieves put to it. Men he knew he could march into certain death.
But how  wait. You're saying SOZE sent t us to kill someone?
Verbal, he left you behind for a reason. If you all knew Soze could find you anywhere, why was he ready to send you off with the money when he could have used you to take the boat?
He wanted me to live.
Why did he want you to live? A onetime dirty cop without a loyalty in the world finds it in his heart to save a worthless ratcripple? No, sir. Why'
Edie.
I don't buy that reform story for a minute. And even if I did, I certainly don't believe he would send you to protect her. So why?
Because he was my friend.
No, Verbal. You weren't friends. Keaton didn't have friends. He saved you because he wanted it that way. It was his will.
No...
Keaton was Keyser Soze
NO.
NO, NO, NO, NO, NO.
THE KIND OF MAN THAT COULD HAVE KILLED EDIE FINNERAN.
Edie...
He used all of you to get him on that boat. He couldn't get on alone and he had to pull the trigger himself to make sure he got his man. The one man that could identify him.
This is all bullshit.
He left you to stay behind and tell us he was dead. You saw him die, right? Or did you? You had to hide when the first police cars showed up. You heard the shot, just before the fire but you didn't see him die.
I knew him. He would never 
He programmed you to tell us just what he wanted you to. Customs has been
If he's dead, Verbal  if what you say is true, then it won't matter. It was his idea to hit the Taxi Service in New York, wasn't it? Tell me the truth.
It was all Keaton. We followed him from the beginning.
I didn't know. I saw him die. I believe he's dead. Christ
Why lie about everything else, then?
You know what it's like, Agent Kujan, to know you'll never be good? Not good like you. You got good all fucked around. I mean a stand up guy. I grew up knowing I was never going to be good at anything 'cause I was a cripple. Shit, I wasn't
You're not safe on your own.
You think he's..?
Is he Keyser Soze I don't know, Verbal. It seems to me that Keyser Sate is a shield. Like you said, a spook story, but I know Keaton  and someone out there is pulling strings for you. Stay here and let us protect you.
I'm not bait. No way. I post today.
You posted twenty minutes ago. Captain Leo wants you out of here a.s.a.p., unless you turn state's.
I'11 take my chances, thank you. It's tougher to buy the cheapest bagman than it is to buy a cop.
Where are you going to go, Verbal? You gonna run? Turn states evidence. You might never see trial. If somebody wants to get you, you know They'll get you out there.
Maybe so, but I'm no rat, Agent Kujan. You tricked me, that's all. I won't keep my mouth shut 'cause I'm scared. I'11 keep it shut 'cause I let Keaton down by getting caught  Edie Finneran too. And if they kill me, it's
Even if I was to let you talk to him, he won't talk to you. He's paranoid about being recorded and he knows the interrogation rooms are wired
This won't be an' interrogation, just a... friendly chat to kill time.
No, no, no, no, no.
If it was a dope deal, where's the dope, if it was a hit, who called it in?
And I am sure you have a host of wild + theories to answer these questions.
You know damn well what I think.
That's crazy, Dave and it doesn't matter. He has total immunity and his story checks out. He doesn't know what you want to know.
I don't think he does. Not exactly, but there's a lot more to his story. I want to know why twentyseven men died on that pier for what looks to be ninetyone million dollars worth of dope that wasn't there. Above all, I want to be sure that Dean Keaton is dead.
His name was Arturo Marquez. A petty smuggler out of Argentina. He was arrested in New York last year for trafficking. He escaped to California and got picked up in Long Beach. They were setting up his extradition when he escaped again. Get this  Edie Finneran was called in to advise the proceedings.
Kobayashi.
What do you mean I can't see him?
The D.A. came down here last night ready to arraign before they even moved him to county. Kint's lawyer comes in and five minutes later, the D.A. comes out looking like he'd been bitchslapped by the boogey man. They took his statement and cut him a deal.
Did they charge him with anything?
Weapons. Misdemeanor two.
What'the fuck is that?
When does he post bail?
Two hours, tops.
I want to see him.
He won't go into the interrogation room.
Someplace else, then.
Where?
I know what I wanted to know about Keaton.
Which is shit.
No matter. He'll have to know how close we came.
Keyser Sate or not, if Keaton's alive he'll never come up again.
I'11 find him.
Waste of time.
A rumor is not a rumor that doesn't die.
What?
Nothing. Something I  forget it.
We're on vacation.
I've got a ton of work and no good people.
Take your time. Enjoy L.A.
A friend of mine in New York tells me you knew Spook Hollis.
I hear you did time with old Spook. Yeah, he was a good egg. I used to run a lot of dope for him. Fuckin' shame he got shivved.
I shivved him.
Better you hear it from me now than somebody else later.
Business or personal?
A little of both.
Ain't it a crime? Call if you're interested.
Get a grip. I didn't know.
You didn't know.
The job got thrown to me by this lawyer.
Who is he?
Some Limey. He's a middleman for somebody. He doesn't say and I don't ask.
We want to meet him.
He wants to meet you. He called last night and asked me to set it up. What do I tell him'
Tell him we'll meet.
My employer requires your services. One job. One day's work. Very dangerous. I don't expect all of you to live, but those who do will have ninetyone million dollars to divide any way they see fit.
Who's your boss?
My employer wishes to remain anonymous.
Don't jerk me off. We all know what this is. You don't work with me if I work with you without knowing who I'm working for. Now let's cut the shit. Who's the man?
I work for Keyser Sate.
You set up the lineup.
Mr. Soze made a few calls, yes. You were not to be released until I came to see you. It seems Mr. Keaton's attorney, Ms. Finneran, was a bit too effective in expediting his release. Holding the rest of you became a moot point.
What about Redfoot?
Mr. Redfoot knew nothing. Mr. Soze rarely t works with the same people for very long, and they never know who they're working for. One cannot be betrayed if one has no people.
The answer is no.
Mr. Soze will be most 
Listen to me, cocksucker. There is no Keyser Sate. If you say his name again, I'11 kill you right here.
A strange threat. I can only assume you're here to kill me anyway. Pity about Mr. Redfoot.
Ahh, Mr. Hockney. Do join us.
We know you can get to us, and now you know we can get to you. I'm offering you the chance to call this off.
Mr. So My employer has made up his mind. He does not change it.
Neither do we.
I am sorry, Mr. McManus. f implore you to believe me, Mr. Keaton. Mr. Soze is very real and very + determined.
We'll see.
What did you say?
Edie Finneran. She is upstairs in my office for an extradition deposition. I requested she be put on the case personally. She flew out yesterday.
No matter. Kill away, Mr. McManus.
You're lying.
Am I? 92 92 INT. HALLWAY  FIFTIETH FLOOR
How are you, Keaton?
I'd have to say my spine was broken, Keyser.
Ready?
What time is it?
Let's say for example 
This I had to see myself.
with what?
You know damn well, deadman.
Hey, that was your mistake, not mine. Did you ever think to ask me? I've been
We've met once or twice. Last time was in...
County. I was in for fraud.
You were waiting for a lineup then, too. What happened with that?
I walked. Ninety days, suspended.
How do you do?
Verb  Roger, this is Edie Finneran. Edie, this is Roger Kint, he was at
What the hell do you want?
I wanted to talk to you. The other guys 
I did you a favor by standing up for you last night, but don't think we're friends. I'm sorry, but I have other things 
They're gonna do a job. Three million dollars, maybe more.
Get out.
If you'll just let me 
Don't hurt me.
Hurt you, you sonofabitch? I could kill you.
They  That's bullshit. They don't operate anymore.
McManus has a friend in the Fourteenth Precinct. They're coming out for one job  Thursday. They're picking up a guy smuggling emeralds out of South America. Fenster and McManus have a fence set to take the stuff.
What fence? Who?
Some guy in California. His name is Redfoot.
Never heard of him.
You have to come.
What's with you? What do you care whether I come or not?
They  They don't know me. You do. They won't take me unless you go. Look at me. I need this.
Tough break.
Don't tell me you don't need this. Is this your place?
You watch your mouth.
Okay, okay. You say it's the real thing? That's cool.
I was out of line.
You okay?
I'11 be alright.
Well, I'm sorry.
Forget it. I'11 probably shit blood tonight.
How are they going to do it?
McManus wants to go in shooting. I said no way.
Fenster and Hockney?
They're pretty pissed off. They'll do anything. Now I got a way to do it without killing anyone: but like I said, they won't let me in without you.
Three million?
Maybe more.
No killing?
Not if we do it my way.
We'll make it.
Don't do this. Send her a card  something.
We'll make it.
What is it Keaton?
Something  I don't know. I ever tell you about the restaurant I wanted to open?
What is this?
Who's Keyser Soze?
Whatare they speaking?
Russian, I think. I don't know.
Hungarian?
Keaton, I can't just 
I want you to find Edie. Both of you find some place safe. Tell her what happened  Everything. She knows people. She'll know what to do. If we can't get Kobayashi my way, she'll get him her way.
What if I
Just do what I tell you.
I know you. You don't think I know you're on the take. This whole fucking precinct is dirty. You don't have a fucking leg to stand on.
Hockney was just a bad bastard. Good with explosives. Mean as a snake when it mattered .
Roger really. People say I talk too much.
Yeah, I was gonna tell you to shut up.
What are we gonna do?
I can run. I got no problem with that.
Me too.
Did you hear what he just said?
If I'm going in, I want a stake.
You heard right.
The word I got is you hung up your spurs, man. What's that all about?
He's alright.
How do I know that? How about it, pretzelman? What's your story?
His name is Verbal Kint. I thought you guys knew him.
Why don't you just calm down'
What do you care what he says?
Keaton, we gotta go. They're gonna find him.
Dig.
It's a logistical nightmare. Close quarters, no advance layout, ten men, maybe twenty.
Can we stealth these guys?
Doubtful. With all that coke, they'll be ready  which brings me to sunny spot number two. Even if one of us gets through and jacks the boat, we get nothing.
You're fuckin' A right, no P.C. Well screw P.C. No right. No goddamn right. You do some time, they never let you go. Treat me like a criminal, I'll end up a criminal.
You are a criminal.
Why you gotta go and do that? I'm trying to make a point.
I'm sure you can understand my hesitation.
Then who goes?
We all go. How about it, Keaton?
DON'T MOVE, YOU FUCKERS.
RIGHT THERE. FREEZE.
Everybody I ever worked with, did time with.
They fucking know everything.
It's bullshit. This guy could be L.A.P.D. I think it's a setup.
The way I hear it, Soze is some kind of butcher. No pity.
I'd say you've gotten on his main and central nerve, McManus.
Do your friend a favor, Fenster, keep him quiet .
Forget him. It's not important. I was trying to make a point.
This whole thing was a shakedown.
How many times have you been in a line up? It's always you and four dummies. The P.D. pays homeless guys ten bucks a head half the time. No way they'd line five felons in the same row. No way. And what the hell is a voice line.up? A public defender could get you off of that.
So why the hell was I hauled in and cavity searched tonight?
It was the Feds. A truck load of guns gets snagged, Customs comes down on N.Y.P.D. for some answers  they come up with us. They're grabbing at straws. It's politics  nothing you can do.
I had a guy's fingers in my asshole tonight.
Fuck you. I'11 never shit right again. So who did it? Own up.
I don't want to know.
This is not right.
I don't know. Who was that guy that used to talk about Soze in New York?
Yeah. He said he did jobs for him. Indirect stuff. Always five times more money than the job was worth.
Come on. The guy is a pipe dream. This Kobayashi is using him for window dressing .
I don't know. This is bad.
I know who he is.
I hope I didn't disturb you.
I hope so, too, Mr. Kint. Can I get you something to drink?
A glass of water would be nice.
So what is it you do, Mr. Kint?
Umm ...
A hijacker like Dean, here? Or something more creative?
Now remember, this is another kind of business. They don't earn your respect. You owe it to them. Don't stare them down but don't look away either. Confidence. They are fools not to trust you. That's the attitude.
I'm having a stroke.
You've come far. You're a good man. I love you.
...and the desk Sergeant is actually trying to tell me he can't release you? Can you believe that? You weren't even charged. New York police  Jesus. I want to take pictures of your face to bring to the D.A. first thing in the morning.
Just forget about it.
I'11 have this thing in front of a grand jury by Monday.
Edie, please. I don't want to hear this right now. What did Renault and Fortier say?
They want more time to think about investing.
Goddamnit.
They just said they wanted time.
Time for what, Edie? Time to look into me a little more, that's what. No matter how well you cover my tracks now, they'll find out who I am.
Give me some credit. I got you this far, let's go to the grand jury. This is never going to stop if we 
No. It's never going to stop, period. It won't take more than a week before every investor in this city is walking away from us. It's finished. I'm finished.
Don't give up on me now, Dean.
They'll never stop.
I love you.
They ruined me tonight.
Dean, I love you. Do you hear me?
Come home, Dean.
Alright.
That's enough, Edie.
I don't know what you came here for, but we won't have any part of it.
Edie, please.
&lt;&lt;We were there to buy a man and take him back to Hungary.&gt;&gt;
He says they were buying It doesn't make sense. I'm sorry, I'm a little rusty. They were there to buy something.
Not dope. Something else. Some what?.. He doesn't knob what they were buying. But not dope... people.
&lt;&lt;I'll tell you everything. I'11 even say it slow enough for you to understand it. Just tell this man I want protection. Real protection.&gt;&gt;
&lt;&lt;No, no, no. I need a guarantee from the ridiculous man. I am going to be killed. I have seen the Devil and looked him in the eye.&gt;&gt;
No good. He needs guarantees. He says... his life is in danger... He has seen the Devil... looked him in the eye.
&lt;&lt;Keyser Soze. Keyser Sate. I've seen his face. I see it when I close my eyes.&gt;&gt;
He says he knows his face. He sees it when he closes his eyes.
&lt;&lt;It was smaller than that. Sharper.&gt;&gt;
+ The nose is sharper. Smaller too. + &lt;&lt;And what about the hair? You said something earlier about it.&gt;&gt;
&lt;&lt;It is longer than that. And not so dark. &gt;&gt;
&lt;&lt;Are you sure?&gt;&gt;
&lt;&lt;Don't be stupid.&gt;&gt;
He says the hair is longer and lighter.
Jack. What are you doing here?
I've been looking all over for you. You still after the coke that walked out of that blood bath in the harbor?
Yeah.
You can stop looking. There was no coke. I've been in L.A. county with a guy they
There was ninetyone million 
We know, but our man says no way on the dope. This Hungarian tells me the whole bunch was pulling stumps for Turkey the next' day. They had no time to negotiate that kind of product and no means to move it.
What was the money for?
He didn't know. No one doing the deal knew except a few key people. This guy says they were real hush about it. Whatever it was it was highly sensitive.
I don't get it.
They tell me you got the cripple from New York in there. He mention Keyser Soze
Who ?
Bear with me here...
A boy came across a body on the beach this morning. Thrown clear when the boat burned. Shot once in the head. Two guys from the F.B.I. just identified him. +
And ?
Keyser Soze
There's more.
What was you shootin' at us for, anyhow?
Thought you was followin' me.
Well, this here's Ned Logan... Ned, this here's the Schofield Kid, nephew of Pete Sothow an'...
I seen two fellas followin' me, I guessed they come to kill me. We didn't talk about no other fella.
I was only checkin' it for you. Thought maybe somethin' was bent.
Nothin's bent.
Well, you was shootin' every which way an'...
You gonna share your half with him?
Clouds, Kid. We was lookin' at them clouds on account of we got a storm ridin' up our ass.
Oh, them. Hell, I seen them.
You was right to change your mind, Kid.
Yeah?
I'm a damn good shot. See that hawk up there? I could kill that hawk with one shot.
Far enough.
We ain't goin' to Nebraska on no turtle hunt. A hundred yards?
More.
See that scrub oak yonder?
Fuck you.
He's blind, for Chri...
I ain't blind, you asshole.
Say, Ned... ?
Yeah.
How many men you killed? Ain't you gonna answer?
I don't like the question.
Well, I gotta know what kind of fellas I'm ridin' with, don't I? In case of a scrape.
How many you killed, Kid?
Five. I killed five of 'em. That counts a Mexican I killed. He come at me with a knife.
Jesus. You done this before?
Plenty of times.
His pistol must of jammed.
Move the candle closer, I can't see.
He wouldn't of took no beating like that if it hadn't of jammed. He wouldn't just give it over an' not shoot no one.
He didn't even pull his pistol, huh?
He ain't as tough as you, Kid.
Well, I guess I woulda at least pulled my pistol an...
Shit, Kid, you pulled your pistol... right outta the lady an' out the back window.
That was your idea, I wanted to...
We're gonna need more food... at least three days worth...
Three days? We could kill 'em tomorrow.
I don't kill nobody without him.
We don't need him. The two of us could do it.
Depends what he told you. About Bill, you mean?
All of it. About him, an' you an' Uncle Pete... about robbin' the Rock Island Pacific... an' about them Missouri Banks.
We done that stuff.
Well I guess Bill Munny wasn't no fearless killer an' bank robber like he said.
He's gonna die, ain't he?
Maybe.
Well, suppose he does?
We'll bury him.
That ain't what I mean.
You mean, am I gonna help you kill them cowboys?
I can't spot 'em myself but you could. That redhaired one, you could spot a halfmile off, I bet.
An' if I spot 'em?
I'll ride up close an' shoot 'em!
Just like that?
I told you I'm a damn killer. I done it before. I'm more killer than him.
Yeah?
Hell, yeah.
What is it, son?
Two more hogs got the fever.
Who's he?
Best we move that pig.
Hullo, paw.
I guess you lost some hogs to the fever.
Three.
Three? That ain't bad considerin'.
That fella come by... Tom.
Tom?
The one you rode out after... the one that had the pistol...
The Kid, yeah...
Only he wasn't carryin' no pistol this time.
He say anythin'... The Kid... ?
Tom? Only how... how if you didn't... didn't come back in a week... how we was to take half the money to Sally an' say you was...
Well, I come back, didn't I?
Did you... did you... ?
Did I what?
All that money... I mean... did you...?
Steal it? Naw, I didn't steal it.
No... I meant...
What?
Kkkill somebody?
Who said that?
Nnobody... only you took your shotgun an' that pistol an'...
Before I met your maw, God rest her soul, it used to be I was kinda... wicked... drinkin' spirits an' gettin' into scrapes an' all. Only she made me see the error of my ways an'... I ain't like I was no more.
I guess you didn't kill nobody then.
Naw, son, I didn't kill nobody.
We ain't bad men no more, Bill. Hell, we're farmers.
Should be easy killin' em... supposin' they don't run off to Texas first.
How long since you shot a gun at a man? Nine... ten years?
Eleven.
Easy, huh? Hell, I don't know that it was all that easy then... an' we was young an' full of beans. Bill... if you was mad at 'em... if they done you wrong... I could see shootin' 'em...
We done stuff before for money, Ned.
Well, we thought we was doin' it for money... What'd they do anyhow? Cheat at cards, steal some strays, spit on a rich fella?
Cut up a woman. Cut her eyes out, cut her tits off, cut her fingers off... done everythin' but cut up her cunny, I guess.
Well, I guess they got it comin'... But you wouldn't go if Claudia was alive.
How long you gonna be, Bill?
Two weeks, I guess.
This Kid, what's he like?
Three ways?
Yup. You still got the Spencer rifle?
Yeah, an' I could still hit a bird in the eye flyin'.
He musta been movin' right along.
We'll come across him tomorra, I guess.
Got used to my bed. Ain't gonna feel to home out here.
Well, it ain't just the bed I'm gonna miss. I'm... Hell, Billy, I'm sorry. I didn't mean...
It ain't nothin', don't fret it. She don't like it much, you goin' off with me.
Sally?
She gave me the evil eye.
It's just... she's a Indian an' Indians ain't... overfriendly.
I ain't blamin' her, Ned, I ain't holdin' it against her. She knew me back then... an' she seen what a no good sonofabitch I was... an' she won't allow how I've changed. She just don't know how I ain't like that no more.
Well, she...
I ain't the same, Ned. Claudia, she... straightened me up, got me clear of the whiskey an' all. Us goin' to do this killin'... that don't mean I'm back to like I was. I just need the money... for a new start... for them youngsters. Remember that drover, the one I shot in the mouth so's the teeth come out the back of his head? I dream about him now an' again. I didn't have no reason to shoot him... not one I could remember when I sobered up.
You was a... a crazy sonofabitch.
Nobody liked me... none of the boys. They was scared of me... figured I might shoot 'em out of pure meanness.
You ain't like that no more.
Eagle... he hated my guts. Bonaparte didn't like me none.
Nor Quincy, I guess.
Quincy, he was always watchin' me. Scared.
You ain't like that no more.
Hell, no. I'm just a fella now. Ain't no different from anyone else no more.
Say, Bill... You ever... ever go into town... an' all?
Sure, I got to. Got to get supplies.
No. I mean... ...an' get yourself a woman? You know?
Naw. Naw, I don't ever go into town for that. A man like me... A man like me can't get no woman but one he's gonna pay for... an' that ain't right... buyin' flesh. Claudia, God rest her soul, she wouldn't have wanted me doin' nothin' like that, me bein' a father, an' all.
Whaddaya do, just use your hand?
Sometimes... yeah. I don't miss it all that much.
Some fucker's shootin' at us.
Yeah.
He hit you?
Naw. I bumped my head fallin' off of my horse.
He ain't shootin' our way no more. He's shootin' over that way. Who's he shootin' at over that way?
Beats the hell out of me.
You suppose maybe we're in somebody's field?
I didn't see nothin' planted.
HEY.
You're marking us, Bill.
HEY, KID.
Kid? The Kid's shootin at us?
IS THAT YOU, KID?
Why would the Kid shoot at us?
HEY KID, IT'S ME, BILL MUNNY.
Now Ned's a hell of a shot with a rifle. Hell, he can hit a bird in the eye flyin'.
Better'n you anyhow, Kid. You wasn't comin' close.
Shit.
How far kin you see?
Jesus.
Fifty yards ain't bad. Guess we better get along.
I give it up 'cause I hate sleepin' out in the air... fuckin' sticks in my food... an' fuckin' bugs in my food... an' fuckin' rocks under my back... Shit, I sure do miss my fuckin' bed.
Yeah... you said that last night.
Last night I said I missed my fuckin' wife... tonight I just miss my fuckin' bed.
I brung this for when we had to kill them fellows. I guess we could use some now.
Not for me. I don't touch it no more.
God damn it, Bill, it's rainin'.
I know it's rainin', Give the Kid a drink, why dontcha?
No.
What he was talkin' about... how them deputies had the drop on you an' Pete...
Yeah?
I remember how there was three of them deputies you shot... not two.
Well, I ain't like that no more, Ned. I ain't no crazy, killin' fool.
You still think it'll be easy shootin' them cowboys?
You... you remember Eagle Hendershot?
Huh? Uh... yeah.
I seen him.
He's dead, Bill.
His head was all busted open so's you could see the inside.
Jesus, Bill, you got fever. Take a drink, will you?
Worms was comin' out.
Listen, Bill, I'm gonna see what's takin' The Kid so long. Must be he's gettin' an advance offa them sportin' ladies.
Claudia... ain't here, Bill.
Ned... Is that you, Ned? Ned, I seen... death.
Easy, Bill.
I seen the angel of death Ned, an' I seen the river. He's a snake, he got... snake eyes.
Who, Bill? Who got snake eyes?
The angel... the angel of death. I'm scared, Ned. Ned, I'm gonna die.
Easy, Bill, easy.
I seen her... I seen Claudia too...
Well, that's good now, ain't it, Bill? Seein' Claudia an...?
She was all covered with worms. Oh, Ned, I'm scared of dyin'...
HOW MANY LEFT GODDAMIT?
Two.
I'm goin' on down to Kansas.
We got to kill this other one first. Shit, Ned, if we're lucky, we could kill him by nightfall... or maybe tomorrow morning. Then we could head back, all three of us, with the money.
You want the Spencer, Bill?
Shit, Ned, this ain't the time to quit.
Me an' the Kid, we'll head over to the ranch an' as soon as we find him, we'll shoot him. Then we'll come back an' the three of us pick up the money an' head South together.
Supposin' he don't go to the ranch?
I'll bet anything he won't go to town nor he won't ride out on the range. Right off he'll hole up at the ranch.
I ain't waitin', Bill. I'll look in on your youngsters when I get back.
Ned, don't pay no mind to what the Kid said about the money. I'll bring your share along, hear? The Kid's full of shit, hear?
I... I... think I'm... shot.
You ain't shot.
Pppplease, I'm not armed. Mmmy Ggod. You killed... Little Bill.
You sure you ain't armed?
I never cccarry arms. I'm... a writer.
A writer? What do you write... letters an' such?
Bbbooks. You... you killed five men... singlehanded.
Yeah.
Whwhwho did you kill first?
Huh?
Whwhwhen confronted by superior numbers, the experienced gunfighter will fire on the best shots first.
Yeah?
I was lucky in the order. I always been lucky killin' folks.
Who was next? Clyde? Or was it...?
I could tell you who was last, mister.
William Munny, yeah.
Same one as shot Charlie Pepper in Lake County?
You shot Charlie Pepper, didn't you? And you're the one killed William Harbey an' robbed the train over...
Hold on, mister. Son, this here pig gotta be moved outta this pen, away from them others. Penny, you give yer brother a hand...
You're Pete Sothow's nephew, huh? Hell, I thought maybe you was someone come to kill me... ...for somethin' I done in the old days.
I could of... easy.
Yeah, I guess so.
Like I was sayin' you don't look like no meaner than hell coldblooded damn killer.
Maybe I ain't.
Well, Uncle Pete said you was the goddamndest meanest sonofabitch ever lived an' if I ever wanted a partner for a killin', you was the worst one. Meanin' the best. On account of you're cold as snow an' don't have no weak nerve nor fear.
He said that, huh?
I'm a damn killer myself, only I ain't killed so many as you because of my youth. Schofield Kid, they call me.
Schofield? You from Schofield?
On account of my Schofield model Smith and Wesson pistol.
Oh.
Well, how about it?
About what?
Bein' my partner. I'm headin' North up around the Niobrara in Nebraska. Gonna kill a couple of no good cowboys.
What for?
For cuttin' up a lady. They cut up her face an' cut her eyes out, cut her ears off an' her tits too.
Jesus!
Thousand dollars of reward. Five hundred a piece.
I ain't like that no more, Kid. Whiskey done it as much as anythin' I guess. I ain't touched a drop in ten years. My wife, she cured me of it... cured me of drink an' wickedness.
Well... you don't look so prosperous. Hell, you could buy her a new dress out of your half. We could kill them two an' you could buy your wife one of them fancy...
She's passed on, Kid.
Huh?
Been gone near three years now.
Oh.
Don't tell nobody about the reward an' all. Don't need no other gunmen tryin' to collect.
I don't never see nobody anyhow.
If you was to change your mind, might be you could catch me... due West to the Western Trail an' North to Ogallala.
Well, we was. Like you said, I changed my mind an'...
Wasn't nothin' said about no partner.
Well, now Kid, there's two of these cowboys, ain't that so? Better there's three of us... maybe them cowboys got friends. Maybe...
I was gonna kill them two by myself. It don't take three.
Three ways, I figured.
No.
Sorry, Ned. Guess I wasted your time. See ya, Kid!
You're goin' back with him?
He's my partner. He don't go, I don't.
What the hell are you pissin' about, I'd like to know?
Huh?
Well, what were you lookin' at anyhow?
Lookin' at?
Now hold on, boys, hold on. Now, Kid, you kin see fifty yards, can't you?
Bet your ass I kin see fifty yards an' I kin shoot this sonofabitch...
Easy, Kid, easy. Now, you hear that, Ned? The Kid can see fifty yards fine, hear?
Say, Bill. That business in Jackson County... did that really happen? I mean how they say it happened?
What business?
An' how there was two deputies up close pointin' rifles at you... had you dead to rights... an' how you pulled out a pistol an' blew them both away to hell... an' only took a scratch yourself. Uncle Pete told me he never seen nothin' like it, shootin' your way out of a scrape like that.
Well... I don't recollect.
You don't recollect!
Get some sleep, Kid.
You boys are crotchety as a couple of hens.
Finish him, Ned.
He ain't dead? You didn't get him?
He got the boy's horse.
Did you kill him?
He's clear of the horse, Ned. Better get him.
What happened? He ain't dead? What's goin' on?
If he gets behind them rocks we ain't gonna get him... not without we go down there.
What rocks? Why don't you shoot? What's goin' on?
Shit!
What happened, did you hit him?
Better reload it.
You missed him? You didn't...?
I got him.
He ain't killed.
Maybe, maybe not. Got him in the gut, I think.
They takin' water?
Yeah.
When we gonna double back?
After a ways.
You're gonna lose your share. If you don't...
Shut up, Kid.
It's gonna get riper yet.
You still think he's in there?
Yeah, he's in there.
Well, he's holding on to his shit like it was money.
He's in there.
Tell me right off if you see him.
Yup.
You... you ain't gonna shoot him yourownself?
You can shoot him.
Is it him?
Yup.
Did... you... get... him?
Yeah.
Cover me, Kid, while I mount.
I can't see 'em.
Just SHOOT!
Yeah, I guess so.
Shit... I thought they was gonna get us. I was even... scared a little... just for a minute. Was you ever scared in them days?
Say, Bill...
Yeah.
That was... the first one.
First one what?
First one I ever killed.
Yeah?
How I said I shot five men... it wasn't true. That Mexican... the one that come at me with a knife... I busted his leg with a shovel... I didn't shoot him or nothin'.
Well, that fella today, you shot him alright.
Hhell yeah. I killed the hell out of him... three shots... he was takin' a shshshit an'... an'...
Take a drink, Kid.
Oh Chchchrist... it don't... it don't seem... real... How he's... DEAD... how he ain't gonna breathe no more... nnnever. Or the other one neither... On account of... of just... pullin' a trigger.
It's a hell of a thing, ain't it, killin' a man. You take everythin' he's got... an' everythin' he's ever gonna have...
Well, I guguess they had it... comin'.
We all got it comin', Kid.
I trust you, Bill.
Well, you don't wanna trust me too much. We'll take Ned his share together so you don't figure I run off with it.
Wha... what ffor?
Lemmee see it.
Sure. Sure, Bill.
You... gonna take... the money?
You better get on back, Miss.
You could have it. All of it.
I thought you wanted to buy spectacles an' fancy clothes an' all.
I'd rather be blind and ragged than dead, I guess.
This here money, take my share an' Ned's an' leave it with my youngsters. Tell 'em half goes to Sally Two Trees if I ain't back in a week. The rest is yours... you could buy them spectacles.
Are you... Are you gonna... kill Little Bill?
I guess you won't mind my keepin' the bottle.
You're gonna kill him, ain't you?
Stay clear of folks you might see. There's plenty out lookin' to hang you. Go on now, skedaddle.
I was watchin' you... seein' if you was followed.
Silky an' Faith, they rode off to the East an' two deputies was followin' them.
Ned's share?
Yeah, he went South ahead of us. I guess we'll catch him before...
He's... he's dead.
No he ain't. He went South yesterday.
They... they killed him. I... thought you know that. I thought you knew because...
Nobody didn't kill Ned, he went South yesterday. He didn't even kill nobody. Why would anybody kill Ned?
Who killed him?
Little Bill. The... the Bar T boys caught him and Little Bill...
He hanged him? Shot him down?
Nno. He... he beat him up. He was making him... answer questions... and beating him up... and then... Ned just died. Little Bill didn't mean to kill him... he said he was sorry an' all... but he said it was a good example anyhow.
Good example! Good example of what I'd like to know? He didn't even kill nobody... he couldn't do it no more.
They got... a sign on him says he was a killer.
A sign on him?
In front of Greely's. It says, "This here is what happens to..."
They got a sign on him in front of Greely's?
The questions Little Bill asked him... what sort of questions was they?
About where you an' him was... an' where you was from... an' what your names was... an'...
What'd Ned say?
Llies... at first. About how you was just passin' through and didn't kill nobody... an' Little Bill kept askin' questions, mixin' him up, catchin' lies... an' then he'd beat on Ned an' Ned would cry and lie some more an' then... then...
Then... what?
A cowboy come in sayin' you killed Quick Mike in the shit house at the Bar T...
An' Little Bill killed Ned for what I done?
Not on purpose. But he started hurtin' him worse... makin' him tell stuff. First ned wouldn't say nothin'... but Little Bill hurt him so bad he said who you was...
He said how you was really Three Fingered Jack out of Missouri... an' Bill said "Same Three Fingered Jack that dynamited the Rock Island and Pacific in '69 killin' women and children an' all?" An' Ned says you done a lot worse than that, said you was more cold blooded than William Bonney or Clay Alisson or the James Brothers an' how if he hurt Ned again you was gonna come an' kill him like you killed a U.S. Marshall in '73.
Didn't scare Little Bill though, did it?
Nno, sir?
Lemmee see that Schofield, Kid.
You work for the railroads too, Mister Beauchamp?
Nno. I wrwrwrwrite... I wr wrwrite...
Letters?
It's only a bbbbook...
A book, huh? I guess that means you can read... An' I guess you boys seen them signs about surrendering your firearms... But then, like you told old Andy there, you ain't armed, are you, Bob?
The... Duck of Death.
Dddduke. The Ddduke of Death.
That is you there, ain't it, Bob? The Duck of Death?
Uh... Duke.
Uh... It's... uh... generally considered desirable in the publishing business to... ah... take certain license in depicting the cover scene... for... ah... purposes involving the... ah, market place.
Well, Mister Beauchamp... from what I read of this here book, I'd have to say the writin' ain't a whole lot different from the pitcher.
Uh... I can assure you, Mister Daggett... the events described within are based... on the accounts of eye witnesses and...
Meaning the duck himself, I guess.
Duke.
Duck, I says. "You have insulted the honor of this beautiful woman, Corcoran," said the duck. "You must apologize." But Two Gun Corcoran would have none of it and, cursing, he reached for his pistols and would have killed them but The Duck was faster and hot lead blazed from his smoking sixguns."
I believe that to be an accurate description of the events, sir... albeit there is a certain poetry to the language which...
Well, Mister Beauchamp, I was at the Blue Bottle Saloon in Wichita the night English Bob killed Corky Corcoran... an' I didn't see you there... nor no woman, nor no twogun shooters nor nothin' like that.
You were there?
First off... Corky didn't carry two pistols, though he should of.
But he was called...
Some folks did call Old Corky "Two Gun" but not because he was sportin' two pistols but because he had a dick so big it was longer than the barrel on that Walker Colt he carried. An' the only insultin' he done was stickin' that big dick of his in some French Lady that Old Bob was sweet on... Well, one day Corky walked into the Blue Bottle and before he knows what's happening Bob takes a shot at him... and misses on account of he's drunker than hell.
Well, that bullet whizzin' by panicked Corky, an' he done the wrong thing! Pulled his gun in such a damn hurry he shot off his own toe. Meantime, Bob aims good and squeezes off another... but he's so drunk he misses again an' hits the thousand dollar mirror behind the bar. Well, now the Duck of Death is good as dead 'cause this time Corky does right an' aims real good, no hurry...
And?
Bam! That Walker Colt blew up in his hand... which was a failing common to that model. Now if Corky would have really had two guns instead of just a big dick he could have defended himself to the end.
You... you mean... English Bob killed him while...?
Well he wasn't gonna wait for Corky to grow no new hand. He walked over real close, bein' drunk, an' shot him through the liver.
But if the other fellow is quicker and fires first...
He will be hurryin' and he will miss. That there is as fast as I can pull an' aim an' hit anythin' more'n ten feet away... unless it's a barn.
But... if he doesn't miss?
Then he will kill you. That is why there are so few dangerous men like old Bob there... an' like me. It ain't so easy to shoot a man anyhow... an' if the sonofabitch is shootin' back at you... well, it'll unnerve most fellas. Look here, let me show you somethin'. See this here pistol?
Them's the keys. All you gotta do is shoot me an' you an' English Bob can ride out free as birds.
Is... is it... loaded?
Wouldn't be no good if it wasn't. You got to cock it though.
Rrrreally? You rrreally w wwant...?
Give it to him.
"Well, Jim," I says, "it makes me sick to see a man struttin' around and packin' two pistols an' a Henry rifle and cryin' like a baby."
Did you... kill him?
No,... but I can't abide them kind... an' you will find a lot of them in the saloons... tramps an' drunk teamsters an' crazy miners... sportin' pistols like they was bad men, but not having no sand nor character... not even bad character.
I do not like assassins an' men of low character like your friend English Bob... but Bob ain't no coward who will cry to your face an' then...
Uh... Sheriff... Uh...
Huh? Oh. Another one, huh? Shit, I guess I'm clean out of receptacles.
Maybe you should... hang the carpenter.
What?
Uh... hang the... uh... carpenter. I...
Uh, no. No, I ain't drunk.
Ordinance says you got to turn in your firearms to the County office day or night. I guess you didn't read it with the weather an' all.
Well... uh... I... I ain't got no, uh, firearms.
Them friends of yours in the back, they carryin' pistols?
I... dunno. I mean, I guess not. No, they ain't carryin' no guns.
You're spillin' your whiskey, mister.
Like I said, I...
What's your name?
Uh, William... uh... Hendershot.
Well, Mister Hendershot, if I was to call you a no good sonofabitch an' a liar, an' if I was to say you shit in your pants on account of a cowardly soul... well, I guess then, you would show me your pistol right quick an' shoot me dead, ain't that so?
I... I guess I might... but like I said, I ain't armed.
I guess you just carry it for snakes an' such.
Uh... yeah. Yeah.
There ain't no snakes in here, Mister Hendershot.
Well, uh... it ain't loaded.
He should have armed himself if he was gonna decorate his saloon with the body of my friend.
I guess you are ThreeFingered Jack out of Missouri, killer of women and children.
I have done that... killed women and children... I have killed most everything that walks or crawls an' now I have come to kill you, Little Bill, for what you done to Ned. Now step aside. boys.
I don't... deserve this... to die this way. I was... building a house.
"Deserve" don't mean shit, Little Bill.
I'll see you... in hell, you three fingered asshole.
Shut up, Alice. Little Bill, a whippin' ain't gonna settle this.
No?
This here's a lawful contract... betwixt me an' Delilah Fitzgerald, the cutwhore. Now I brung her clear from Boston, paid her expenses an' all, an' I got a contract which represents an investment of capital.
Property.
Damaged property. Like if I was to hamstring one of their cow ponies.
You figure nobody'll want to fuck her.
Hell no. Leastways, they won't pay to do it.
She could maybe clean up around the place or somethin', but nobody's gonna pay good money for a cutup whore.
You boys are off of the Spade Outfit. Got your own string of ponies?
Hit your finger, huh?
Huh? Hullo, Skinny. Snuck up on me. How do you like her?
Heard you done the roof yourself.
Roof? Jesus, Skinny, I done practically every damn thing myself. Roberts boy hauled wood, that's all.
What's all that wood?
Porch. I'm puttin' a porch on her so's I can puff my pipe of an evening an' drink my coffee an' watch the sun set.
Yeah?
Them whores, they been fuckin' an' fuckin' all them cowboys that come into town the last two weeks...
Shit, Skinny, we got railroad barons an' cattle barons, but you' re gonna be the first of the billiard barons.
...They been fuckin' 'em, 'an tellin' every bowlegged one of 'em how they're payin' a thousand dollars to whatever sonofabitch kills them two boys which cut up Delilah.
An' all them cowboys been riding that beef down to Kansas an' Cheyenne?
Yup.
All week?
I didn't hear nothin' till last night.
Word must have got all the way to Texas by now.
Oh, shit, Bill, I guess nobody's gonna come clear from Texas.
They really got all that money, them whores?
You know how women kin lie... I knock 'em around a little, ask 'em where the money is, they say they don't have none?... but they coulda squirreled away that much, the five of 'em. Maybe.
That much, huh?
You could run off them two cowboys.
I could run off them whores.
Well, I guess they'll just up an' run anyhow, them two.
Nope. They'll stay out on the Spade country where they got friends.
We got one of them fuckers, Sheriff, out by Cow Creek, we...
Alive?
Hell, yeah. A bunch of us Bar T boys went out lookin' on account of them killin' one of our own. We come across this fucker on a roan goin' South an'...
He admit it?
No... but I guess he will soon enough. Had a Spencer rifle on him an' he was...
Those cowboys messin' him up?
Uh... a little, maybe.
You an' Andy get the hell out there. Find out where them other two went.
Hullo, Bob. Boys, this here is English Bob.
Shit and fried eggs.
Been a long time, Bob. You run out of Chinamen?
Little Bill, I thought you were dead. I see you shaved off your chin whiskers.
Well, I was always tasting the soup two hours after I et it.
What I heard was that you fell off your horse drunk and broke your neck.
I heard that one myself, Bob. Hell, I even thought I was dead til I found out it was just I was in Nebraska. Who's your friend?
WW Beauchamp... Little Bill Daggett and... "friends."
Books. He's my biographer.
Oh.
Not really... Maybe a couple of Peacemakers... I imagine you could overlook those, eh, Bill? If you didn't see them... or hear them?
I guess not, Bob. I don't like guns around.
Charley, see what kind of "books" Mister Beauchamp is packing... but watch you don't get wet.
Be careful with those, sonny.
You leave me at the mercy of my enemies.
Enemies, Bob? You been talking about the Queen again? On Independence Day?
Mmmm pistols.
Oh yeah.
I thought... you was an angel.
You ain't dead.
Some big guy beat the shit out of me. I guess I must look a lot like you, huh?
You don't look nothin' like me, mister.
I didn't mean no offense. I guess you're the one them cowboys cut up. Ned an' The Kid, my partners, are they... ?
They went out scouting when they saw your fever broke.
Scouting?
On the Bar T... looking for... them.
Oh. How long I been here?
Three days. Are you hungry?
Three days? I must be.
I thought I was gone. See them birds? Most times I wouldn't even notice them birds much. But I'm noticin' 'em real good 'cause I thought I was dead.
I brought your hat. You... left it down at Greely's.
That big guy lookin' for me?
Are you really going to kill them?
Yeah, I guess. There's still a payment, ain't there?
Them other two, they been takin' advances on the payment.
Advances?
Free ones?
Alice an' Silky gave them... free ones.
Oh. Yeah.
You want... a free one.
Me? No. No, I guess not.
I didn't mean... with me. Alice and Silky, they'll give you one... if you want.
I... I guess not. I didn't mean I didn't want one 'cause of you bein' cut up. I didn't mean that.
You're a beautiful woman an'... if I was to want a free one, I guess I'd want you more than them others. It ain't... See... I can't have no free one on account of my wife...
Your wife?
Yeah. See?
I admire that, you being true to your wife. I've seen a lot of... of men... who weren't.
Yeah, I guess.
She back in Kansas?
Uh... yeah. Yeah. She's uh... watchin' over the little ones.
...wouldn't let you settle it, huh?
Hell, you know how Skinny is. Says he's gonna shoot 'em... an I says, "Skinny, you can't do that," an' he says, "Well, then get Little Bill down here an' let's settle this" an' I says, "Bill's sleepin', Skinny," an'...
I couldn't find no bullwhips, Bill. The German...
Don't matter, we don't need no whips. Spring comes an' Skinny don't have them ponies, I'm gonna...
He tell you where them others is?
Nope.
He give 'em names?
Didn't give us nothin' but his own name... Ned Roundtree.
Well, Ned, you'll want to tell me an' Mister Beauchamp here all about them two villainous friends of yours, I guess. Bring him in, boys, for I will be glad to know the names and the whereabouts of those other two murdering sonsofbitches.
Where's Little Bill for Christ sake?
Ha. He was building his fucking porch.
Building his porch!
He's coming ain't he?
'Course he's coming.
What'd he say?
Little Bill? He didn't say nothing. Like I said, he was buildin' his porch. Have you seen that thing?
He didn't say nothin', huh?
Asked what they looked like, that's all. Christ, maybe he's tough but he sure ain't no carpenter.
Maybe he ain't so tough.
We never seen him up against any... like these ones... killers.
Little Bill come out of Kansas an' Texas, boys. He worked them tough towns.
Just wondered. Anybody could be scared.
Why, if you were to point a pistol at a King or a Queen, sir, I can assure you your hand would shake as though palsied...
I wouldn't point no pistol at nobody, sir.
A wise policy. But if you did, I can assure you, the sight of royalty would cause you to dismiss all thoughts of bloodshed and stand... in awe. Whereas, a president... I mean, why not shoot a president?
Now this Strawberry Alice person, tell me again.
Down the street and across. Greely's Beer Garden and Billiard parlor. Just ask for Alice and say you want a game of billiards.
Billiards, eh? Even though I don't really wish to play?
Don't matter. They burned the table in '78 for firewood.
Ah, I see.
I didn't think they'd really do it.
What did you think, they come clear up from Kansas to fuck us?
That Kid... he's just a... boy. And that other one, Bill, being true to his wife...
What wife? He don't have no wife.
He said...
I told you, he don't have no wife, not aboveground, anyhow.
Where'd you get the money, huh?
We ain't got it. We ain't got no money.
You told them cowboys you had it.
We was... lyin'.
What you gonna do when somebody comes to collect? FUCK 'EM? FUCK 'EM A THOUSAND TIMES? The kind of people who'll come after that thousand, they won't tolerate if you don't have it. They won't just cut your face up a little. STUPID CUNTS!
Rain's coming.
Thank God.
She's gonna live. She didn't steal nothin', She didn't touch his poke.
No?
All she done was... when she seen he had a teensy little pecker... she gave a giggle. That's all. She didn't know no better.
A whippin'? That's all they get? After what they done?
Whippin' ain't a little thing, Alice.
But what they done, they...
You... you ain't even gonna... whip 'em?
I fined 'em instead.
For what they done? Skinny gets some ponies an' that's...?
Ain't you seen enough blood for one night? Hell, Alice, they ain't loafers nor tramps nor bad men. They're hard workin' boys that was foolish. Why if they was given over to wickedness in a regular way...
Like whores?
If they was just here for the fuckin', how come they lit out the back window?
On account of they seen you was beatin' on their friend.
You just kicked the shit out of a innocent man, you big asshole.
Innocent of what?
No more sitting in this room. I've let it go on long enough.
I'm not going out anymore. I'm not getting hurt again. This was the last time. I told you.
You can't do anything about that. You might fall between that chair and this television. If that's what God has planned for you, that's what's going to happen. You can't hide from it in your room.
...I got a present for you.
Why?
Forget why. Do you want it or not?
Well, go get it then.
Where is it?
On a bench, across the street.
We're going to prevent any substantial atrophy of your good leg with this. It works the quadriceps.
How long have you been married?
Twelve years.
How did you get together?
Now you're going to have to tell me more.
...See my husband was a big football star in college and we were in an accident together. Our car flipped on an icy road. We were both injured. He couldn't play football anymore. If that hadn't happened, we wouldn't have been together.
How so?
Football wasn't the kind of life I wanted... For ten years I'd be by the phone waiting for a call telling me he broke his neck in a practice game. And if it wasn't that call, it would be a call telling me he blew out his knee or suffered his third concussion. I've seen way too much of it in my job... I can barely take it when my clients are in pain. I don't hate the game. I admire the amount of skill it involved and, like everyone else, I was in awe of how he could play it, but I couldn't give him my heart and then have something happen to him. And it always does with that game. It's not a thing many people would understand.
You and my mother would have a special connection.
Any way, fate stepped in and took football out of the equation.
...And everyone lived happily ever after.
There have been three major disasters in this city over the last four years. I've followed each one of them... A Seventhreeseven crashes on take off. One hundred and seventytwo die. No survivors... A hotel fire downtown. Two hundred and eleven die. No survivors... And am Amtrak train derails seven and half miles outside of the city. One hundred and thirty one die. One survivor. He is unharmed. I've spoken with your husband about his survival. I suggested a rather unbelievable explanation. Since then, I've come to believe, that my explanation, however unbelievable, is in fact, true.
And what was that explanation?
Is this a religious thing?
I own a comic book museum. It's called the Limited Edition.
For a second there I thought you were a fanatic.
I believe comic books are based loosely on reality  I believe there are real life equivalents of the heroes in those books that walk the earth  I believe your husband is one of those individuals.
How are you feeling?
Okay.
You are in the emergency room of the University of Pennsylvania Hospital. You were in a serious accident. How's your vision?
Fine.
Where were you sitting on the train?
Against a window.
In the passenger car?
Yes. Where are the rest of the passengers?
Was your family traveling with you?
No.
Did you get up from your seat?
No.
You like sports?
It's my field. I represent athletes. I'm an agent.
What a coincidence? I'm a male synchronized swimmer and I'm looking for representation.
Is that right?
But I'm afraid of water, so that's been holding my career back a little bit.
You represent someone in Philadelphia?
I'm meeting a player from Temple University. He's a cornerback. You like football?
Not really.
This kid is six foot two, two hundred and forty pounds. He runs the fifty in under six seconds. He's going to be a God.
Yeah, hello.
Is David Dunne there?
He doesn't look very threatening.
That's what I said to my son. He said, there's always two kinds. The soldier villain who fights the hero with his hands, and then there's the real threat. The brilliant and evil arch enemy who fights the hero with his mind.
Jeremy, why don't you go sleep with your mom?
I want to sleep here tonight.
I think it's be better if I was alone.
I won't make any noise.
How about your room then? If you get scared like before, you can come back in here?
He going pro in the draft. They say he can run the fifty
In under six seconds. I've heard.
I'm going to go in.
Just play one set of downs. I told them you were great.
Why'd you do that?
Just one
Jeremy. I'm going in. I have to do some things.
What things?
I'm going to work out.
I'll help you.
There's nothing to do.
You think you could beat up Mike Tyson? I mean before he started wiggin out and eating people's ears?
No.
What if you worked out everyday for six months? You think you could beat him then?
No.
What if you only ate foods that were good for you and you worked out everyday for a year?
You put too much. That's two hundred and fifty pounds.
How much can you lift?
No.
I mean if you knew karate?
No Jeremy.
What if he wasn't aloud to kick and you were really mad at him?
How much did you take off?
I lied.
How much is it?
Two hundred and seventy.
What do you do if something happens?
Get mom.
How many did you put on that time?
All of it.
There's no more left?
I'm sleeping in my room.
I see.
I'm not scared.
That's great.
Do you know why?
I know now.
Know what?
You're secret identity. That man was right.
YOU WON'T GET HURT...
Elijah was wrong.
That was me they were talking about. I almost died. That was me.
You're lying.
I'm not. I just didn't connect it.
I'll just shoot him once.
Jeremy listen to what
Don't be scared.
Jeremy if you pull that trigger I'm going to leave! I'm going to go to New York.
Dunne, it's Jenkins, we got a guy at gate 17C with a bogus ticket. Says he knows you. He won't tell me his name.
What's he look like?
He's got the most beautiful eyes... The hell kind of question is that? He's a guy.
Send him packing. I'm not walking all the way over there.
Consider him packed. I didn't like his attitude... Struttin around with a cane and shit.
Yeah?
There's a message for you at the office. Your kid was hurt.
When?
Just now. They want you to come down to his school.
I am. I'm helping him with the sale.
It's a pleasure to meet you. I'm David Dunne.
He's spoken of you. He says you're becoming friends.
We are.
He's doing well today.
I'm very proud of him. He's been through a lot in his life. A lot of ups and downs, a lot of bad spells. A couple I'd thought had broken him... I mean emotionally. They were bad... But he made it. Yes he did.
He's kind of a miracle.
Yes he is.
You've never been sick?
I don't know for sure. ...I don't think so.
How certain are you that you haven't been sick in your life?
Seventyfive percent.
Seventyfive percent? That's not nearly good enough for me. I'm extremely skeptical.
Skeptical about what?
Your answer to my question. It's one thing to have never been injured in your life, but to state that you've never taken ill, well that's a whole new level.
What's he talking about?
In college. A car accident.
Was it serious?
I assumed because of the train.
You assumed wrong.
You forgot the "Now I'm going to tell you what the hell is going on" step. See usually that comes before the, "It's over" Step. And it always, always comes before the "You can go" Step. What is over?
The life of an idea that has lived too long in my head.
This city has had its share of disasters. Well publicized ones. It was around the time of that plane crash, when it first entered my head. And there it stayed, as I waited and watched the news over the years... And then one day I see a news report on a train accident and its sole survivor who was miraculously unharmed. And just like that, an idea blossoms into the flower of possible reality.
What was your idea Elijah?
At the church... You were following me weren't you?
Technically no. I gambled that you would attend the church service. I just waited for you.
What's this about? This is obviously some scam. Is this where you tell me one of those pictures is like an investment?
You've misunderstood.
I see guys like you all the time in my work. You find someone you think is emotionally vulnerable and you tell them a fantastic story, utterly convincing... and somewhere in there, you slip it in... 'I just need your credit card number','I just need a small down payment.'
It's for last week's game.
I've come to understand that... An ill advised purchase in the parking lot.
What do you want?
Not money. But I appreciate your healthy cynicism in the manner. It will be wise for both of us to proceed with greatest caution.
We're not proceeding anywhere together.
We've already begun.
Why is it, do you think, that of all the professions in the world... you chose protection?
Are you for real?
You could have poured coffee in Starbucks, you could have learned to install track lighting in office buildings, you could have told people their horoscopes on the internet... You could have been one of ten thousand things... but in the end, you chose to protect people. You made that decision... and I find that very, very interesting. Now all I need is your credit card number.
Just give me a minute.
Is there a problem?
That guy in green. Sometimes people carry weapons in here. Then they drink too much. They're team isn't doing so well, bad things happen... We do random pat downs of the crowd to discourage people from carrying. If he's carrying, he'll step out of line.
I got you a seat in the seven hundred level. It's nosebleed territory, but at least you won't get spit on.
How did you know that man you bumped was carrying a weapon?
Probably the army jacket. Those guys carry hunting knives and stuff for show.
You thought he was carrying a knife?
I thought he was carrying something.
But not a knife?
I got this picture of a silver handled gun tucked in his pants. Like on t.v.
You have good instincts when it comes to things like that?
Like what?
Telling when people have done something wrong?
Yes.
Have you ever tried to develop it?
I don't know what you're asking?
You're skill.
Listen. I got to be on the sidelines during the game... You can get to your seat by taking the stairwell at
Characters in comic books are often attributed special powers. Xray vision, things of that sort.
Okay, I don't want to play this game anymore.
It's an exaggeration of the truth. Maybe it's based on something as simple as instinct. Like being able to touch someone and tell whether they've done something wrong... Or the level of what they've done wrong.
The guy might not have been carrying anything.
Or he might have been carrying a silver handled gun tucked in his pants.
I have to go now.
One last question.
Quick.
The car accident you were in... Was there anyone else involved?
I must have felt some lump in his back when I bumped him. Most guns have a black or silver handle. I had a fiftyfifty shot at the color.
That's not what I witnessed David.
Stop messing with my life Elijah. My son almost shot me last night. He wanted to prove you were right.
I never said you couldn't be killed. I never said that.
You have a problem, Elijah. My wife is right. Somewhere along the line one of your bones broke and your mind just broke with it.
Are you finished?
No. And I have been sick. I spent a week in a hospital when I was a boy recovering from pneumonia and almost drowning. Two skinny eight year old kids were playing around the pool. They were dunking me. I swallowed water. They didn't know it and they almost killed me. Heroes don't get killed like that. Normal people do.
I don't think I got the job in New York.
What does that mean?
I'm still going to New York. Just not this second.
I don't want to drag this out too long for Jeremy.
I know.
Is Jeremy okay?
He's asleep.
Oh.
I don't know. It's been a while.
I haven't been sick this year. I know that.
Okay.
Do you remember me getting sick?
Not a specific day. What's this about?
Megan, do you ever remember me getting sick?
...I can't remember.
That's strange isn't it? Not remembering one fever... Or a cold... Or a sore throat. What do you think that means?
It means we're probably to tired to remember.
Is that what you wanted to ask me?
Yes.
Is there anything else you wanted to ask me while I'm up?... When was the last time you wore pink? When was the last time you drank soup standing up? Final call for strange questions at two in the morning.
No that's it.
When was the last time I wore pink?
The Mitchell barbecue three years ago.
Oh shit...
Matching shirt and shorts. It was brutal.
I've come to a decision.
Oh.
Megan?
Yes. Is this David?
Yeah? Megan where are you calling from?
My name is Megan Inverso. We went to college together.
I remember you.
I was hoping you would call me, but... Anyway I decided not to wait. I was thinking, it might be nice to go to dinner together.
...When you work with clients on machines, do they sometimes just jump up a level or two? Do something they didn't know they were capable of?
Not often, but it is possible. Most people get scared when they see the shadow of their limits. They don't know how long the shadow really is. They don't know how far away the real limits are standing... They stop out of fear.
What do I do when I'm around someone I know?
You use your sleeve.
He's just laying in bed. He's pretty upset. He won't talk.
He's dealing with a lot of things. I think he needs to find answers himself.
Would you like to try going
Yes.
out again?
Oh. Elijah Price came to visit me at the center today.
Jesus.
He didn't do anything. He just told me his theory... It's sad when patients get like that. They loose reality.
Jeremy what the hell are you doing?
...I think rust.
Rust?
As a color, not as rust. You know, a rust colored paint or wood?
I didn't know that. Mine's still brown.
My turn. What's your favorite song?
Soft and Wet, by the Artist Formerly Known as Prince.
What was that?
We're supposed to be honest.
Soft and Wet. That's very interesting.
My turn. When was the first time the thought popped into your head that we might not make it?
I'm not sure.
Think carefully?
What about the game?
It's finished. I won.
Maybe it wasn't a specific moment, maybe it
I had a nightmare one night and I didn't wake you up so you could tell me it was okay. I think that was the first time. Does that count?
That counts.
Why?
I don't know Megan.
It's like you resent us David. Resent the life you have.
Wrap it up.
You've made a considerably wise decision.
Once again please?
My son Jeb. It's a gift for him.
How old is Jeb?
Four.
No.
No, no, no, no no... You need to go now.
What did I say?
Do you see any Telletubbies around here?... Do you see a slender plastic tag clipped to my shirt with my name printed on it?... Do you see a little Asian child with a blank expression sitting outside in a mechanical helicopter that shakes when you put a quarter in it?... No?... Well that's what you see at a toy store? Any you must think this is a toy store, cause you're in here shopping for an infant named Jeb. One of us has made a gross error and wasted the other person's valuable time...
I'm listening.
I'll keep it in my office room.
What about Jeb?
I have a lock on the door.
Yes?
Is Noel in?
No sir he is not. I read about you in the paper.
Oh.
I was in an accident once too. A horse almost trampled me to death.
Wow.
I had to put him down.
Proceed.
Ask if he can check how many sick days I've taken since I've worked here?
Is that the entire message?
Yes.
Where's the fire sweetheart? Don't know how they work things in Nevada, but we got speed limits in this state.
Vat? I am going 5 miles an hour! I am looking town. I not even moving.
Whoa, what kind of accent you got there? You one of them Russians?
I am Russian, da! I am also <u>rich</u> Russian, da? Maybe we work something out, my friend Sheriff?
What? You trying to bribe me, mister? Just cause you Russians ain't commies anymore, don't think money can buy everything...
What's that? ..."concealed" is a definite no no in this town, Ivan. You know anything about Jamilla's grocery store?
What fuckin grocery store, you fucking shithead idiot! You call yourself a police...
Get out of the car, spread them. You can jawbone all you want or you have the right to <u>shut the fuck up</u>! You commie motherfucker. Either way you're goin' to the can.
I want my lawyer!
I axed you a question.
Aw, Toby, we weren't doing nothing. We was just talking.
You shut your mouth, girl, and get back over to our table. Now, I'm not going to axe you again, Mister. What were you doing with my girl?
Honest, Toby. I just axed him for a quarter for the jukebox.
Stay out of this, Jenny. We got man's business to take care of. I ain't never taken no drugs, mister, and ...
I want to stay.
I said come on!
Toby! Toby Tucker, leave him alone!
You stay away, Jenny. I aim to mess him up, and that ain't a thing for a woman to see.
Who was that on the phone?
Wrong number.
You spent a long time talking for a wrong number. But then you make friends so easily. Don't you, Grace?
I put up new drapes, Jake.
I know. I was here when your apprentice was helping you. Remember?
You never said anything. About the drapes.
They look nice.
You haven't even looked at them once.
They look nice.
I picked them out for you, Jake. I thought you would like the colors.
What the hell you looking at, girl?
Nothing, Jake. Absolutely nothing.
Ya little bitch, you like it don't you! You like it this way  rough and hard. Gotta go fuck around on me, like your Mama, but you always gotta come home to Daddy, don't you, cause you know Daddy's the best.
Yes, yes, hit me...beat me, please.
You been a bad girl, Grace. You took my heart from your Mama, didn't ya? You betrayed her! Like you did me. There ain't no forgivin' ya, girl!
Oh no! Oh please forgive me, Papa!
You broke her heart! You broke your Mama's heart. You stole me! That's right. Fuck it away. But it ain't ever goin' away, cause your Mama  she's like a hungry ghost baby, she won't go away, she won't leave ya alone.
No! No! Please!
What's the matter?
You didn't hear something?
Yeah, I heard a key slapping against my ass.
There's someone in the house.
Jake, don't go out there. Call the sheriff.
Shhhh! Just like your Mama, always scared of things...
Help me, Grace, help...
Like you helped her, Jake?
Morning Grace.
Morning Sheriff. Got my drapes.
Well it's about time. Looks like you found yourself a helper too.
Well, he offered, and I just couldn't refuse. His car overheated.
Oh?
Anybody hurt?
Hell, no. That Wayne can't shoot when he's sober, much less drunk. He's lucky he didn't kill his own danged self. Well, anyhow, you stay cool. Nice meeting you, son.
You fuck this guy  get him to do your dirty work and you think you can take the money and dump me?
No baby, you got it wrong.
This road don't go to Globe, Grace  where were you going to meet me?
I don't want the fuckin' money! I'm not gonna give up everything I got for a lousy 50,000 dollars. It's <u>you</u>. You <u>Grace</u> or nothing. The whole thing... I want you to be my wife.... What do you way Grace?
You sound just like Jake... I did see into the future, Virgil, but you weren't in it. Go back to your family. They love you.
Goddamnit Virgil, stop! Don't!
...But I bet the story she <u>didn't</u> tell you was the best story of all. How old crazy Jake <u>was really her Papa</u>. And she <u>liked</u> fucking Papa! And now she's killed the sonufabitch! Just like she's gonna kill you!
My lord, that little baby of yours Virgil, has gotten cuter'n a bunny's nose.
What was that all about?
You know how that Toby is. Thinks every man he sees is after his Jenny.
More like Jenny is after every man she sees.
Let me get your change.
Flo, I'm just gonna help myself to a refill on the coffee.
Son of a bitch!
Virgil! Now look at what you done! Are you all right?
I think I burned my gun hand!
You got a beer?
What kind?
Beck's.
No Beck's. A1, Coors...
Heineken?
No, we ain't got no Heineken. We got Miller.
Genuine Draft?
No. Just plain ol' Miller. Now you can fuckin' take it or you can fuckin' leave it.
I'll fuckin' take it. To go.
Shasta! Now why'd you go and scare the nice man like that? Sorry about that, mister. Let's see, you want $3.25. You try to have a nice day now, would you?
Sure, I'll try.
I need a ticket.
Where to?
Out of here.
But, in particular?
I ... Mexico. You got a bus that goes to Mexico? That's where I have to go.
Mexico is a large country. Where in Mexico would you like
I don't care, just get me there.
How about Ciudad Juarez? You could take a local, arrives in two hours, and transfer in Albuquerque. It'll get you across the border.
How much?
One way, or round trip?
One way.
30.55. Twenty more will get you back.
Twentyseven, fifty. That's all I got.
The ticket is 30.55.
Keep your change. Bus threetwentythree. Leaves at seven fifty two, tonight.
I'm sorry. It's just ... you know ...
That's a shame, Bobby. A real shame.
And that's not the half of it, Mr. Arkadin...
"Arkady"
Right, Mr. Arkady. And that's not the half of it. I got your money, and I go into this little grocery store in this hicktown to get something to eat and then... well, it gets <u>robbed</u>!
...And let me guess. This robber  he gets your money.
No. Two of them. Two robbers. And they <u>both</u> get nailed... get shot by the old lady.
The old lady?
With a <u>shotgun</u>! She kills <u>both</u> of 'em, and... and the money in my bag gets all shredded to bloody pieces. Not one bill is left alive. I mean, what are the odds?
Mr. Arkady, honest, I ad to beat it outta there before the cops showed. So now I don't have a cent to my name. I can't even get my car out of the garage. I tell you, Mister... if it weren't for bad luck I wouldn't have nay fuckin' luck at all, you know? So, I was wondering if you could wire me a hundred fiftydollars so I could get my car out of this garage, see? The bus depot here has a Western Union thing. And of course I'll pay it back with the rest of the money.
Which you don't have.
But which I can get. No problem. Look, I can sell my car in Vegas. Blue book it's worth 16 at least. I just need the 150, uh...
Yeah, if you could send it care of...
...Now, let me get this straight. Two years you give me problems with your fuckin' payoffs. Now you owe me thirteenthousand dollars, you call me  collect  then ask me to wire you onehundredfifty dollars just so you can get your car fixed.
A hundredfortyfive would probably cover it.
A hundred and ... Now you listen to me you deadbeat little punk: I don't care if you got hit by a truck and run over by a steamroller. You owe me thirteenthousand dollars and <u>I want it</u>. I don't care how you get it, or where from, but I want it on my desk tomorrow, or I'll show you what real bad luck is.
What'd you say to me!
Shit I'm sorry!...you can't believe the strain I'm under. I'm just under a lot of strain here.
Morning, officer.
Son. Little excitement out at the reservation this morning. Wayne and Dale Elkhart were up drinking all night and then Wayne starts chasing Dale around the desert with his shotgun. BIA handled it. I went by for backup.
Where ya goin'?
Harlin's.
Get in.
Seen you popping up a little bit of everywhere today. You're not planning on staying are you?
No, sir. I'm not going to be around long if that's what you're worried about.
That's a nasty cut you got there.
Yeah, fell down and hit a rock. Not as bad as it looks.
There was a young fellow over at Jamilla's today when it got hit. Way she tells it he got whacked around good by one of the robbers.
Sounds like it. I wish I could help Sheriff, but I just want to get my car and get on up the road.
Can I give you a hand, beautiful?
I'm just going to my car?
That's right on my way.
My mother told me never to accept offers from strangers.
My name is Bobby. Now I'm not a stranger anymore. See how easy it is for us to get to know each other, beautiful?
Do you have to call me that?
I don't know your real name.
Maybe I don't want you to.
Maybe, but if you didn't I think you would have kept on walking.
You're pretty full of yourself, aren't you?
I like that about me, beautiful.
It's Grace.
May I carry your package, Grace?
Jesus.
You sure you can manage?
I got it.
Do you want me to carry your pack for you?
No, I've got it.
What happened to your hand?
Accident.
You should be more careful.
It's very nice of you to help me. That package is kind of heavy, and it's so hot.
No trouble at all, really.
Wasn't nothing.
Oh, this isn't my car. It's down a ways. I should have parked closer. I just didn't think it would be so heavy. I could drive up.
That's all right. I got it.
Thank you, Bobby.
You're welcome, Grace.
You're not from around here, are you?
Why you say that? Just because I help a lady with her package?
You don't have that dead look in your eyes like the only thing you live for is to get through the day.
I just drove in this morning.
Drove into Superior? What for?
Didn't have a choice. My car overheated up the road.
You're lucky you didn't break down in the desert. Day like today, you'd be dead in no time. When you leaving?
Not until my car's fixed. I don't know how long that's going to take.
And here I've made you all hot and sweaty.
Where you coming from?
All over. Chicago, Houston, Detroit. Just lately Dallas.
You've been around.
I guess I've got wander in my blood.
Where you headed?
I don't know. I have to make a stop in Vegas. Business to finish. Then maybe I'll head to Santa Barbara. I might be able to pick up some action there.
So, what is it you do, Mister...?
Cooper. Bobby Cooper. Oh you know, whatever pays best. Little bartending, used to teach tennis, played a little competition ... .
I never played tennis. You just travel around Bobby no direction, no steady work. You must like taking chances.
If you're going to gamble, might as well play for high stakes.
What happens when you lose?
I pack up and go somewhere else.
That's good. Cools you right off. I saw you watching me.
I'm sorry. I didn't mean to.
I didn't say it bothered me.
Did you like it; me watching you?
I guess. I've got an ego same as any man.
Good, 'cause I liked what I saw.
Nice place.
Thank you.
Must get kind of lonely for a woman living by herself in a big house.
I guess it must.
What do you do anyway?
A little of this, a little of that. Mostly I tell fortunes.
Where'd you learn to do that?
From my father. He was the tribe's shaman.
A medicine man?
Those are white words, not ours.
Nice house for a shaman's daughter. You must be good.
Come here.
My face tell you all that?
It tells me what every face tells me. Everybody has a past, they have a pain, and they have something they want. What is it you want?
The same thing you do.
There. All done. Lift me down.
What?
Lift me down.
You can let go of me now. I'm safe. How do they look?
Like you.
Beautiful?
I like them. I was sick of looking at this room. I think they add a little life.
Nothing like a little liveliness.
No more drapes to hang. Now what should we do?
I have an idea.
And what would that be?
You flirt with me, then you run cold. You lead me on, then slap me down. I don't go for being jerked around.
Really? And what game did you want to play? You carry my box for me, and I fall into bed with you?
I think I can find my own way back to into town.
Maybe I like to find out about a man first. Maybe I like to know what he's made of.
I'm just flesh and blood, baby. That and a few memories of bad women; just like most guys. But you already know that. You read my mind, remember? Thanks for the lemonade.
You never did answer my question.
Still playing?
That's not an answer. What is it you want?
You know what I want.
Maybe I just want to hear you say it.
Yeah, well I said I was an idiot. Whatta you say we get out of here, take a drive somewhere, talk...
How do you know he's still not here?
Guys like me take those chances. Let's go.
Are there snakes out here?
They hear you comin'. They won't bother you. Just don't sneak up on 'em.
Doesn't the isolation bother you?
Yeah, but I like the sun. I grew up on a reservation. The sun, the desert; they like a religion to us. Jake's the same way. He loves the desert. I guess we're alike that way. That's about the only way.
You love him?
No.
Did you ever?
Depends on what you call love. I grew up on a reservation. A patch of desert in the middle of nowhere. That's where they stick Indians, Bobby. That's where they leave us to die. My brother killed himself when he was 19 cause he couldn't take it anymore. There's no hope there... Jake was my ticket out. Mom and me.
Is that why you're with him?
I let him think he was courtin' me, but I reeled him in like a fish on a line. I wanted him. I wanted what he could give me, and I would've done anything to get him. Is that love?
I'm guessing no.
Yeah, I guess you're right.
I take it things didn't much work out the way you planned.
I'm still here, aren't I? See this?
All this nothing? It doesn't get to Jake like it gets to me. He says he don't mind being nothing but a big fish in a small pond. More like a little fish in a dried up watering hole.
You could leave him.
I don't know how.
Walk away.
It's not that easy. Maybe you can take chances; maybe you can wander around like some stray wherever you please. I can't. I don't want to be alone. I need to know I'm going to be taken care of.
You need a meal ticket is what you mean. Some guy you can latch onto just long enough for him to get you out of here.
Is that so bad? It's not like I wouldn't try to make him happy. For awhile, anyway. I mean, I would ... do things for him. I guess I'm no good that way. I guess I tried to sucker you along like that. Do you hate me for it? I wouldn't blame you if you did. But maybe it's like you said: You just got to do whatever it takes to get out.
What's the matter?...Grace?
Nothing.
Don't feel like nothing.
Get out of town, Bobby, as quick as you can.
Grace, I've been fucked over too many times, by too many women. You're becoming the queen of hot and cold.
You'd never understand.
Try me.
It's just such a mess. With Jake I mean...
Nothing I understand better than a mess.
You mean the Shaman?
He <u>was</u> a Shaman...in the mine. We had nothin' after he died. Jake took us in, gave us a little money. He used to call me his "little halfbreed"... He kept Mom on the side y'know, cause he was married someplace else. He had kids in Phoenix I think, no one knew him around here...but the thing was...you see... ...he was raping me the whole time...for years. He loved to do things to me. Believe it or not, he used to say he was in love with my ass. Y'ever been in love with a woman's ass?
Yeah.
You're sick too...he loved to do things to me. Control me. My Mom...it tore her up cause she couldn't do nothing about it. She become alcoholic...and the funny thing is I liked it. I liked being controlled by Jake. The truth was as far out and crazy as he got, I wanted <u>more</u>. I wanted to go all the way. Women say they don't want to be taken like, <u>really taken</u>  that's bullshit  they do. The first time he finished with me, he said I was a woman now. I was 14. Then he started crying like a baby...wanted me to hold him. It's a strange feeling to hate someone so much for so many years, but still want to hold him, comfort him... They found my Mom right down there at the bottom of Apache Leap. She had cactus needles stuck all over her body and Virgil...Sheriff Potter said she was drunk and went insane. But I'll never believe she ran off that cliff by accident. She was born on this earth and she loved it. She was like me. She just wanted to fly away.
After he got his divorce, he forced me to marry him...but when I saw her body, I swore to her on my soul that some day I'd get Jake for what he did to her...
I'm sorry...
Yeah. What do you want. Life, right? Have you ever been to California?
Yeah.
Oh yeah. It's far, it's another world.
Is it pretty?
Oh yeah. It's beautiful, beautiful beaches. Blue water and clear skies as far as you can see.
Please. I won't hang on you. As soon as we get there you can dump me. I don't care. I just want to get out of here.
Honey, baby, I <u>can't</u>. I can't even get out of here <u>myself</u>. Believe it or not, I need a lousy hundred and fifty bucks to get my car back from that crazy mechanic...
Darrell? You know he and Jake are...
You don't have any money put away, do you?
Jake never gives me more'n twenty bucks at a time, like a bird in a cage, he don't want me goin' anywhere...
...you could get me money. I'll get you out of here.
Where?
Jake hides it. In a safe. In the floor. In the bedroom. He counts it. He loves to sit there and count it.
What do you mean?
At night. He just sits there and laughs and talks to himself and counts it. I heard him. My Mom told me he had a hunnert thousand dollars down there. Maybe more.
In <u>cash</u>?
Oh yeah. There's nothing else with Jake. He don't trust banks. He keeps the money in the floor right under the bed. He loves it so much, he wouldn't think of spending any of it on me. I never seen it but I know he's got more than a hunnert thousand at least...
Onehundredthousand!? That sonofabitch.
It takes a key. He keeps it on himself all the time. I mean <u>all the time</u>. It scratches up against me when we do it.
If the key's on him, how do we get the key?
Kill him.
I can't kill, Grace. I can't kill anybody.
It's not like he's a young man, Bobby. He's had time to live. It'd be quick. I mean, he wouldn't even have to <u>feel</u> it... I mean, sometime in the middle of the night, when it's quiet...when he's asleep, you could just come up behind him when he's pounding on me and...
I wanted to talk.
I don't think we have anything to talk about.
What about us?
There is no us, remember?
Except I can't get you out of my head, Grace.
Stop it.
Why? Am I making you hot, or does the truth scare you?
Because I know you're full of shit.
I mean it, Grace. I'm getting out of here, and I want to take you with me.
I thought you couldn't get your car.
I could if I had Jake's money.
Is that what changed your mind? The money?
I don't give a damn about the money. I want you, and I want to get us out of this shithole. There's only one way to do that.
Are you sure?... About me, I mean?
I came back for you; this morning I came back. Before I even knew about the money. You're what I want. The only reason I stormed off is because you spooked me talking about Jake. But I've had nothing but time to think about it. It keeps coming back to you and me and us getting the hell out of here. But we've got to get the money, baby. We get the money, I get the car, then we get the hell out.
You said you couldn't kill anybody.
We don't have to kill him. Just knock him out and tie him up 'till we get away. It was your idea, remember? I'm doing this for you. I'm doing this so you can fly...fly like a bird.
Grace ... Grace?
After dark. I'll leave the back door unlocked.
The money's right here! Get the key!
No! You get it!
Bobby? What the hell's the matter with you?
I ... nothing. I just stubbed my toe on a rock. Hurt like hell.
I got the money all packed. I put the jeep and his caddy in the garage. People'll think maybe me and Jake went away. Buy us some time...I know a back road we can take.
Good thinking. What's all this?
I'm not coming back.
I can't see it.
It should be just up ahead. Hold on ... there! There it is!
Hey! Take it easy. Want to get us killed?
You don't know what it feels like to be free of that place.
I don't know about that?
You spent a day in Superior. I wasted my entire life there. I feel like someone just took a million pounds off my shoulders.
We've still got some dead weight to get rid of.
Can't we just dump him fast someplace?
I want a place where only the vultures will find him... It'll be over soon, Grace.
Then will you take me on your friends' boat with you?
I'm not sailing his boat.
But I thought 
We're going to buy a boat of our own baby, and sail it wherever we want to go.
Anywhere?
What the hell? Why not? Where should we go?
Hawaii. I've read all about it. I've dreamed of going there and just lying on the beach while the water licked up against my feet. Oh, God. I'd kill to go there.
You already have.
You know I thought you'd left me back there.
What are you talking about?
Get real Bobby. He was gonna kill you <u>and</u> me.
He was in love with you Grace. He would've done what you wanted, you could've made a deal and ...
The only deal he had in mind was killing you for Jake's murder and blackmailing me into sucking his dick for the rest of my life... no thanks.
He was a <u>cop</u>, Grace, they never stop looking for you when you kill a cop...
He was a scumbag!... He wanted <u>me</u>, Bobby. These guys don't let go! Even when they're <u>dead</u>... You don't know what it was like, Bobby. Those two, they were the same.
So, aren't you going to ask me?
Ask you what? You mean what kind of horrifying sick shit is coming next?
Don't you want to know...? I bet it's burning a hole in your brain just now?
Let it go, baby. It's the past. I got a past...
Don't you really want to know? Was Jake my Daddy? Was I fucking my own Daddy? Don't you want to know that?
Why?
<u>I don't know why</u>!
No Grace, my hand's bothering me.
You think now that Jake's dead, there's all that money there and I don't need you anymore, and I might just sneak up behind you sometime and...pop!
Don't you think I would've done it if I wanted to? What can I do to make you relax, baby?
You could give me my gun back.
I think nothing happens. You're dead meat. That's it.
You don't believe in anything do you, Bobby?
I believe in this moment, that's all. There is nothing else. Come on. He must weigh 300 pounds.
Well, nothing. We dump Jake, we split the money, then you're on your own.
Don't leave me. I want to say with you, Bobby.
Why? So when the cops catch up with us you can sell me out again?
I was just baiting him! Bobby, I had to tell him that to get his guard down. Just like you told Jake you was going to kill me!
You lied to me all along! Lies, all lies. Your mother, your father, what story are you on now? How come the town didn't know you was his daughter?
When you're finished with me, I'm next! I been there, baby. I been there with other cunts...sorry, not anymore. I'll take you as far as California. If we can make that. After that you're on your own. Try Mexico. With all this bread, you can live like a queen.
I don't want to go to Mexico, Bobby! Please, I really want to be with you. Don't blow this. Don't you think I care about you?
I think you're a lying, backstabbing psycho bitch, and one day you'll kill me. But it's nice to know you cared...
Time to go for a walk, Jake.
My mother died in this canyon.
Save the Mom routine, will ya Grace. It doesn't work with me. One, two, three...
Hope is a fourletter word.
But we all need that too. Hold him.
Thank you. Thank you. I...I knew you wouldn't leave me, Grace.
Bobby? Are you all right?
I busted my leg!
Can you make it back up?
Grace  in the trunk of my car is a tow rope. It should reach down here. Go get it, throw it down.
Why's that?
'Cause I love you.
And I love you too.
And love's a funny thing. Sometimes I don't know if I want to love you...
<u>Jake</u>...
He <u>can't</u> help you now, honey!
Got any cold soda?
Eh?
Soda. You got any soda?
Hablar slowly, por favor. My ingles no es bien.
Soda. You know.
I call the sheriff.
No! No police.
You Harlin?
Nope. Darrell.
Harlin around?
He's up at the Look Out.
Will he be back soon?
Doubt it. He's dead. The Look Out's a cemetery.
You own this place?
Yep.
Then why do you call it Harlin's?
'Cause Harlin used to own it.
But he's dead.
So?
You want to take a look at my car? I think the radiator hose is
Damn. Gonna be another hot one today. Sometimes I don't even want to get out of bed. Course don't want to get out for the cold one's neither. Then of course the clouds come in...
Look, Harlin, I've got places to be.
Darrell
OK. Darrell... Could you just take a look at my radiator hose. It's busted.
So?
It's your radiator hose. It's busted.
I know it's busted. What did I just tell you?
Well, you know so much why don't you just fix it yourself?
If I could do you think I'd be standing here wasting my time. Can you fix it, or do I have to go somewhere else?
Somewhere else? Mister, somewhere else is fifty miles from here. Only other gas station down in town closed 3 years ago when the mine got shut...
Okay, I'm stuck. You happy? Now can you fix it, or not?
Yeah, I can fix it.
Great!
Gotta run over to the yard and see if I can find a hose like this one, or close enough. Gonna take time.
How much time?
Time.
Twentyafterten.
Jesus. Twentyafterten and it must be ninety already.
Ninetytwo. Course half hour from now might be seventytwo. These clouds move around a lot.
Accident.
You got to be more careful. Hands is important. Let me show you something. When I was a kid, now I don't know if you can still see it, but I gashed my fingers in a lawnmower.
I'm very interested in this but is there someplace...
Diner up a piece. Not much, but us simple folk like it.
I'll be back in a couple of hours. And be careful with her, will you?
Hey.
Hey, your ... what the hell happened to you?
Nothing.
Don't look like nothing.
Just banged my head. It was an accident.
Another accident? You got to be more careful.
What the hell happened to my car?
Bottom hose was shot too. Rotted clear through. Had to put a new one in. Runs like a dream now.
Well ... you got your parts, you got your labour ... let's call it a hundredfifty bucks.
How much!?
Hundredfifty.
To replace a goddamn radiator hose!?
A goddamn radiator hose in a sixtyfourandahalf Mustang. You know how long it took me to find that hose?
About an hour and a half, because that's all the longer I've been gone.
Actually, it's been about three hours. You're the one thinks that car's so damn fancy. What you expect but fancy damn prices?
That's a Ford, not a Ferrari. You going to tell me no one else in this shit hole drives a Ford?
"That's not just a Ford, that's a sixtyfourandahalf Mustang."
What's that got to do with the radiator hose?
I don't know, but "it's the reason I'm living here and you're just passing through." Now you owe me a hundredfifty dollars.
It might as well be fifteenhundred dollars, because I don't have the money.
Then you ain't gonna have the car.
Listen, man. I got rolled half an hour ago for everything I had.
Then you're only a hundredfortyfive in the hole. You can keep that dollar. Now why don't you just take your American Express Gold Card, and call that guy with the big schnooz on TV and have him send you the money lickity split.
I don't have a goddamn credit card.
Now that's too bad. I sure hope you know how to wash dishes or shovel shit 'cause you're gonna have to work this one off.
...got no day, got no date. Probably ain't worth a duck's fart . This one here cost me $3.75 and it's got every doodad you can imagine. No sir I'll stick with this .
You son of a bitch! I'll have my lawyers shut you down.
You ain't got no credit card but you got a lawyer. Sweet talk me all you want. Didn't you read the sign? It says...
What sign? Fuck the sign. I want my car.
I want my hundred and fortyfive dollars.
Hey there. I was beginnin' to think you wasn't comin' back... You don't look so good.
Yeah, well, I've been around the bend a bit.
One of those days you feel like you been runnin' in circles and you ain't no closer to where you tryin' to get than when you started?
You've been there?
Hell, I've had days I would gladly trade with a whippin' dog. Ain't much you can do when you feel like that 'cept tough it out.
You believe that?
You think bad, and bad is what you get.
That's a good piece of advice, Darrell.
No charge.
Listen, Darrell, about that hundredfifty bucks for the car, as soon as I get where I'm going I swear I'll
Twohundred.
What?
It's going to cost you twohundred dollars.
You said this morning the hose was going to run me onefifty.
Yep. For the hose. But while you was gone I replaced a gasket. That's going to run you another fifty.
I didn't tell you to replace any gasket.
Yeah, but it was shot.
I don't give a fuck! I didn't tell you to do it! You can't just do unauthorized work.
Well, now, you just know all there is about bein' a mechanic, don't you? Didn't you read the sign.
What sign?
The goddamn sign on the wall. I can't do unauthorized work? What am I suppose to do? Just let you ride out of here with a bad gasket. Then you get in an accident and get killed. Or worse. Who they gonna blame then? They gonna blame me, and there goes my reputation.
What reputation? You're nothing but an ignorant, inbred, tumbleweed hick.
Is that an insult? Are you insulting me.
Listen you stupid fuck, I want my car.
Listen to me you sorry sonufabitch. You owe me money, and this car ain't going nowheres until I get it. And if you take another five hours I'll find another fifty dollars worth of work to do on it. Is that clear? Now get out of here 'fore I call the Sheriff, <u>who knows me</u>.
No! Okay! Okay!
What's the matter? The fight gone out of you? I'm just gonna smash a headlight. Maybe two.
Look, Harlin.
Darrell.
Darrell. I'll get you your money. I just have to get something out of the trunk.
What the fuck did you do to my trunk?
Well, that key's not gonna work. I had to pop the lock. You didn't leave me the trunk key.
And you had to go into the trunk, didn't you?
When I work on a car, I work on a car.
What you want?
Open up!
We're closed. Come back when the sun comes up.
What the hell ... oh, it's you. Might've figgered. Listen I got a waitress coming over. What do you want?
I want my car.
You got the money?
Twohundred dollars in hundreddollar bills. And this morning you was broke.
That's none of your business. Get the keys.
I don't want no dirty money. I run an honest business.
Yeah, like Al Capone on tax day. Get the keys?
All I got's a hundred, Darrell. You got change?
No.
Figgers. There's a scratch on the hood and how much you make selling my gun? Deduct it.
Hey, Mister. You gotta quarter for the juke?
What?
I wanna play a song on the juke. You got a quarter?
What happened to your hand?
I cut it shaving; I know, I gotta be more careful.
Got any requests?
That country shit all sounds the same to me.
How about I pick one out for you?
You like Patsy Cline? I just love her. How come, I wonder, she don't put out no more new records.
Cause she's dead.
Gee, that's sad. Don't that make you sad?
I've had time to get over it.
You're not from around here, are you? Where you from?
Oz.
You ain't from Oz. Oz is in that movie.
You're too quick for me.
Hey mister. Mister, I just... I just wanted to thank you.
For what?
For defending my honor this afternoon.
I hate to bust your bubble honey, but I wasn't defending you.
But you was going to fight for me.
I wasn't going to fight for you. I was just going to beat the shit out of your boyfriend.
He's not my boyfriend. I mean, I let him take me out and stuff, but I ain't spoken for. Not yet that is.
Get it through your head, little girl; I'm not going for you. If this Toby likes you, then if I were you I'd marry him. You're not going to get much better in this town.
That's what I thought until you came riding in. I saw your car over at the gas station. It's a cool car. Want to take me for a ride? Desert's kind of lonely this time of day.
How old are you?
Eighteen... Well, I'm gonna be eighteen in two years, but that don't mean you can't take me for a ride if you want.
No, I don't want to take you for a ride. What I want is for ... Hey, you don't think you can get $150 from your parents, could you?
You're too late, Toby. We're going to get in his fancy car and ride off and leave you behind.
What the hell are you talking about?
What's your name anyway?
Toby Tucker, it don't matter to me if you beat him all up and knock out all his teeth and he's just drooling and bleeding all over hisself, 'cause we love each other and we gonna run off, and I'm gonna have his love child.
Will you shut up!
Don't be afraid of him none. I don't care what he does to you, we can still be together.
Get away from me!
Who the hell is this!?
Who the hell are you?
I'm her husband.
Now who the hell are you, and it better be good, or God help me I'll break you in half.
Easy, chief. I... I was helping your wife. I met her in town. She needed a hand with her drapes. That's all.
Didn't much look like you were hanging drapes.
I swear to you that's all that happened. I haven't so much as set foot in your bedroom.
A lot that means.
Grace, tell him.
You can't just walk in here and walk out, you sonufabitch! I'm gonna tear you a new asshole!
You broke my nose!
It ain't broke.
What the fuck do you want?
I'll give you a lift, son. Too hot to be walking... People die out here, y'know.
After you huffed off, Grace lied so bad, I got so pissed off, I pulled down her pants to paddle her ass raw and fingerfucked it instead. Sorry I lost my cool like that. It's a funny thing, women.
Yeah...
Say, what happened to your hand?
Accident.
You've got to be
Yeah, I know. More careful.
I guess we've never been introduced proper. Jake McKenna.
That's a solid name.
I'm a solid man.
Bobby Cooper.
"Bobby Cooper." What brings you to Superior, Coop?
An overheated car.
Oh? Darrell taking good care of you?
Darrell's a moron.
California...
Live there?
Got work. I know a man who's got a boat. Wants me to sail it for him.
You a sailor man? That'd be the life. Drive across the country, step on a boat and just sail away. A man could pretty well disappear like that. Just sail away until all he was was a memory. I guess a little place like this would just be a dot on a map to you after awhile.
I hope so. Listen, McKenna about your wife: If I had known she was married
It wouldn't have made a difference to you, now would it? Not a wit. Do you know why? Because you're a man without scruples.
Wait a second
Ah, I can smell it on you.
Hey!
That's the sweat of a man who hasn't an honest bone in his body. Don't be offended, lad. A man who's got no ethics is a free man. I envy that. Beside, how can I blame you? That Grace sure has a mind of her own, and a body to match, don't she? Eh?
She does at that. I knew when I married her she was a free spirit. A woman with her looks and a man my age; what was I to expect? But you see a woman like that in a town like this and you don't think, you do. So, I married her. What are you to do, eh? Women.
Can't live with them, and you can't shoot 'em.
"You can't shoot 'em!" I like that. I bet she led you on good, didn't she? Taking you up to the house to hang drapes. Oh that's a good one. Bet she had you hard as a rock wiggling her ass in your face. I bet you just wanted to pull down her pants and hog her out. Then me busting in like some wild bear. Ha! Bet you had a fire going under you.
Like you don't know.
Mad like a dog in heat, I bet you were. I can tell you got a temper on you.
Would you?
Would I what?
Would you kill her?
I've done a few things but I'm not a murderer, Mr. McKenna.
How do you know if you've never tried?
This is a joke, right? You just want to rattle me. Right?
What can I do for you, lad?
I was hoping we could talk.
Talk? About what?
About things. About your wife.
Sweet Grace? What about her?
About what you said this morning.
You said you had an insurance policy out on your wife. Fiftythousand dollars.
I do.
You said you'd cut that up with the man who did her in.
I did?
Don't play simple with me, Jake. You're a betting man. You want me to spell it out for you? I'll kill Grace if you cut me in on the money.
Boy I think this heat's getting to you the way you're rambling on.
I'm not rambling.
You're talking like a madman.
Well then, I guess that qualifies me for citizenship in this town. You're the one brought it up. This morning. In your car.
Oh, that was just loose talk. Husband gettin' pissed off. I don't want anybody dead.
Bullshit. You wanted me to kill her.
A man doesn't always mean the things he says.
You meant it.
What makes you say that?
Because you're a slimy bastard who would have his wife killed just to get his hands on some money.
And what does that make you?
The slimy bastard who's going to do it for you... You're a jealous man Jake. If you can't have Grace to yourself...well, you're not the sharing kind.
Well, I guess I have what you call a lovehate relationship with Grace.
You love her, but you hate her?
No, I hate loving her. I hate the kind of person she is. I hate having to tolerate the little "games" she plays. Like fucking half of the town behind my back and laughing at me. The bitch. She loved to play. She wants me to hit her and when I hit her she likes it. She tortures me. But she's family. She's my little girl. My baby. I couldn't stand to watch her eyes roll back in her head as she sucks her last breath, or to see her pretty pink brains spill from her skull. No. Not me. But you? You got the killing in you, boy...How much you want?
How much could you get?
Maybe ... tenthousand. And that's a maybe.
I need thirteen.
That's a bit much.
We're not talking about buying a car Jake. We're talking about killing your wife. It's thirteen, or it's nothing.
You drive a hard bargain, but I had a feeling you were my boy when I met you.
I'm not your boy. I don't like you. I got no choice but to do business with you. Let's just call this a nasty little marriage of convenience.
Don't say that. I had a marriage of convenience with Grace, and look where that's lead... Well, looks like we got ourselves a contract.
If you can't trust the man you've hired to kill your wife ...? The thing is it's got to look like an accident; that's the thing. If it doesn't, then it's no good. I won't get a dime, and it's my neck that'll be on the chopping block while you're living it up somewhere.
How do you want it?
How the hell should I know? I've never had a wife killed before. Jesus Christ! <u>You</u> want this job, you don't know how to do this? I guess I should have hired a professional.
You want to do this yourself? I don't have to do this, you know.
Be quiet, boy. I got to figure this thing. I'm thinking. It can't be done at the house. It should be...
Come to think of it, how 'bout some money upfront?
Oh yeah sure. Why don't I buy you a plane ticket right out of here while I'm at it. I <u>know you</u>... This is what you do: Go to the house to see her.
And tell her what?
...I don't know. Tell her you had to see her. Tell her you don't care if she's married or not, you had to be with her. Sweet talk the woman. A young buck like you must be good at that. Then ... maybe shift the conversation. Get her thinking about that jeep of hers. She loves that thing. Maybe the only thing she does love. She'll want to take you for a ride.
I know you're not surprised I'm back here, cause you can read my mind and all.
Next time you'll do just fine.
No!
That's my gun... That fucking Darrell!
I like Darrell. He may be an idiot, but he's my half brother. We own Harlin's together, yeah, that little redneck manages to get paid no matter how things work out.
I guess this is what they call "ironee"? Hunh?
It's not what you think, Jake.
No, but it don't matter anyway when you're lying there with your brains all over my carpet and I'm telling Sheriff Potter about this drifter, didn't have enough money to fix his car. And Darrell happened to find his gun, and through maybe this drifter heard old Jake got some money stashed away, and figgered he might try to break in and steal it!
Wait a minute. Just listen to me...
...And he thought he'd clock old Jake McKenna and turn his brains into wall paper...and then maybe borrow $200 or $20,000, or $200,000...
I came for Grace.
You came to take my wife from me?
Shhh! Liar.
It's the truth, Jake.
That's a thick change of heart from this afternoon.
Maybe I don't like being played, like she played us today. Maybe I don't like that at all, Jake. I'm just pissed enough, maybe I'll rip the neck off my own grandmother.
You have a lot of talk in you, whole lot of talk.
Damn it, Jake. There is a guy coming to kill me, and if it comes down to me or Grace, then I pick Grace. You were going to give me thirteenthousand. Give me twohundred. I'll kill her and dump the body where no one will ever find it. She showed me the perfect place. There won't be enough left for an autopsy. But I need the the money. I've got to have the money.
How the hell did you know where the bedroom's at?
What are you talking about!
Come on, Jake 
Don't Jake me boy! It's a big house. You probably didn't even make it out to the desert this afternoon...
You'd tell me anything to save your pathetic life.
You know what kind of woman Grace is, Jake. You know how badly she wants to get the fuck out of Superior. What's she to you, Jake; a woman who wants you dead? Let me kill her. All I want is twohundred dollars to get out of here with.
Twohundred dollars?
Twohundred dollars...I'll do it! I'll kill her!
I wasn't doing anything.
That's not the way it looked to me. Looked to me like you was trying to make time with her.
Make time? Is everybody in this town on drugs?
Then maybe you should've. Look, pal, I wasn't making a play for your girl.
You expect me to believe that?
I don't care what you believe as long as you leave me alone.
Mister, I'm calling you out.
What? You want to fight? Over her?
Let's see...they're not very imaginative?
'Cause I'm just like dynamite. And when I go off, somebody gets hurt.
Fine. I was making time with your girl. Now I'm scared to death and I learned my lesson. Now can you go away?
Not before I settle with you, chickenshit!
Christ, I don't believe this!
Stand up.
I wasn't hitting on your girl!
Stand up, Mister, or I'll beat you where you sit.
Mister!
Oh, shit!
That's right, Mister. You better be afraid. I told you it wasn't over, but you didn't listen. Now I find you sneakin' around with my girl behind my back.
I wasn't sneaking around with your girl. Would you please tell him?
Oh, that tears it, Mister. I'm gonna bust you up but good. I'm gonna bust you into a million pieces and then ... and then bust those pieces up, and then ... and then spread them all around. That's what I'm gonna do. You don't know what you're dealing with, Mister. I'm crazy. I'm psycho crazy.
Yeah, I know. You're TNT. Just like dynamite. When you go off somebody gets hurt. All right. Let's do this.
I'm doing what any man would do if he'd been offended. I'm stompin' your ass.
You idiot! You don't even know what you're fighting over!
My honor, that's what I'm fighting over. Now get up off the ground, or do I have to whoop you where you lie?
Now, what's this?
Give it to me!
Mexico? You going to Mexico?
I'm leaving. You never have to see me again. Just please, give me the ticket!
This means something to you? Jenny means something to me.
Hey! You there!
You want something, old man?
Don't call me old man. Ain't you got no respect, boy?
You want something?
Yeah I want something. I want you to run over to that machine and get me a pop.
You can't do that yourself?
Hell no, I can't do that myself. I'm blind. Can't you see that?
I'm sorry, I didn't
What'd you think I was doing out here with these glasses on? Sunnin' myself?
I don't know. I thought you were keeping the sun out of your eyes.
I ain't got no eyes. You want to see?
Christ no!
Lost my eyes in Vyeeetnam. Lost them fighting the commies. Fought the war and lost my eyes fightin' the commies just so you can come around here and make fun of me.
I said I was sorry.
Don't be sorry. Just run over there and get me my pop before I die of thirst.
Yeah, sure. You got change?
Change? You want my change? I fought the war and lost my eyes just so I could give you my change?
All right, old man. Christ.
Don't forget to open it for me. I can't be opening my own bottle.
Christ!
I think you'd better give your pooch a sip. He looks sick.
That's 'cause he's dead.
Oh, Jesus.
I hope you wasn't pettin' him none, was you?
What the hell are you keeping a dead dog around for?
He's only just dead. What was I supposed to do with him? I can't take him away anywhere. And nobody wants to take him for me. Do you?
Hell no!
See. Ain't nothing I can do but keep him here beside me. That's where he belongs anyways. Me and Jesse, that's my dog, not anymore, but me and Jesse we been pals since the war when I lost my eyes. He was just a pup then... a companion that's loyal, that'll keep coming back to you no matter how much you kick him...I miss him. I'll see ya later, unless I come across something worse.
You sure seen a lot for a blind man.
Just 'cause I ain't got eyes doesn't mean I can't see.
That a fact?
Maybe I do.
Or maybe you just think you do. Just another small town. One guy chasing you. You go big town. Just gonna have four guys after you instead. Kiss kissy kiss. It gets down to one thing  are you a human being or are you one of those hungry ghosts out there never satisfied with nothing? Cause you gotta remember you can run just as far as you can, but wherever you go, that's where you gonna be.
I think I've heard that before.
What do you want for free?
You sure got a lot of philosophy, old man.
Seems like I do but only cause end of the day we're all eyes in the same head. And everything is everything.
What?
...And everything is nothing too.
Cocksucker motherfucker! Cops. I hear you. Always sneaking around. Thinks I can't see him. Well he's right. Motherfucker. But that ain't mean I don't know what's going on around here. They're all cursed. Yes sir.
Who's cursed?
All them miners last century. Hungry ghosts, killed off all the Indians. Up at the mine. Earth ran red with blood, think I'm fooling around here. White sky was on fire. Grown men cried like babies. I saw a flash, then darkness descended upon me. They put me in the joint. Took my eyes. I cursed them. White people can't seem to stay away from Indians . You gotta watch where ya put your fingers. Pussy pussy pussy, Indian pussy.
I thought you said you lost your eyes in the war?
So now you're going to tell me where I lost my eyes. You don't think I know where I lost my eyes? I was there when I lost them. I lost them in the war. The war in the joint. There's always wars in the joint. Cause I was a code talker in the joint and in the war too. Mmmm, nothing like the smell of a naked lady. Be careful, boy.
Musta been some bad ass nuclear tests here in the 50's. This town's all inbreeding.
Well, people gotta get by somehow. That's the curse. The mines done it. All that uranium, plutonium, fuffonium, fuckononium, assononium, all that "om"! Everybody's got a mother. You don't rip up your mother. You don't rip up the Earth and take everything out. It's like the Cracker Jack box says, "the more you eat, the more you want...."...
I got things to do.
...But ain't you got a little something for the infirm?
I'm a little short Pops. I'll catch you next time.
Your lies are old, but you tell 'em well.
Ain't over yet. Night is part of day; separate, but equal. Night is when you let your guard down; when you see things in the shadows and hear things in the dark.
Difference between you and me, old man, is I see the glass half full, you see it half empty.
Night is when you want to sleep, but the dry heat keeps you tossin' and turnin'. It's when you wish the sun was bakin' high in the sky so you could see what it is you're afraid of.
You afraid of the dark?
Afraid of it? Boy, I live in the dark. All cause of a woman who made me this way. People are afraid of what they can't see. I can't see nuthin', so it's all the same to me. Kiss from a beautiful woman, kissy kissy kiss, a lick from a dog, slurp, slurp, the kiss of death . It's all the same to me.
So, we're all just floating along like twigs in a stream, so enjoy the ride. Is that it?
More or less.
Not this twig, friend. I got plans.
Nothing makes the Great Spirit laugh harder than a man's plans. We all got plans. I planned on seeing all my life. I know you didn't plan on straying into town.
No and I don't plan on sticking around either.
Well, don't say I didn't warn you when things go your way.
You got a lotta philosophy in you, old timer but you don't fool me for one second with all this blind man crap. One minute you lost your eyes in Vietnam, next it's the joint. Now it's a woman? I'm hep to you.
Time's up. Any last words of wisdom?
Things ain't always the way they seem. You got to ask yourself: is it worth it? Day comes Earthmaker is going to look in your fucking heart! Then you better know what it is you're doing. <u>Are you a human being</u>  or just one of them hungry ghosts out there floatin' around?
You <u>are</u> crazy, you know. Be seeing you, old man.
You know I won't be seeing you.
Got any cold soda?
Eh?
Soda. You got any soda?
Hablar slowly, por favor. My ingles no es bien.
Soda. You know.
I call the policia.
No!
No police.
But, Senor
No police! Wait until I'm gone.
Senor, you need a doctor.
No police!
Kids.
Yeah. What are you going to do? That Toby's a hot head.
He is at that. No so much a fault of his own. Poor boy had quite a trauma as a child.
What happened?
His father worked in a strip mine north of here. Toby's school class went up to the mine one day. School takes field trips up there every year. Big day for the kids when they can see ore tore up out of the ground. Anyway, on this particular day Toby's dad up and falls into the machinery.
Jesus!
Yep. Tore him up good and spat out little, refined pieces of him. Nothing like the embarrassment of having your father refined in front of your classmates to put the anger in a young man.
I guess.
Like I said; you really can't blame the boy. Some people don't know how to avoid trouble. Know what I mean?
Saw you at the truck stop this morning. You're not from around here.
No, sir. And I'm not going to be around long if that's what you're worried about.
Just curious. That's a nasty cut you've got.
Not as bad as it looks.
There was a young man over at Jamilla's today when it got hit. Way she tells it he got whacked around by one of the robbers.
Wouldn't know anything about it.
That's too bad. I was hoping you were there. Maybe you could help us catch the guy who got away. Or maybe you could explain about all that money that got tore up when Jamilla shot that biker.
Wish I could help, Sheriff. But if you'll excuse me I'm going over to Harlin's to pick up my car. Then I'm getting the hell out of this place.
Stay as long as you like, son. No rush.
Maybe not for you, Sheriff, but I think I've had my fill of your little town.
Nice night for a drive. Morning really. I guess that's about the only way to keep cool; riding around with the top down on a fancy convertible in the first hours of the day.
Not taking a drive, Sheriff. Heading out of town.
Suppose you've had all you can of Sierra. What with that ruckus you had with Toby. Oh yes, I heard all about that.
Sheriff, he didn't give me any choice. If I hadn't defended myself 
Just cool down, son. I ain't accusing you of anything. Serves Toby right to get his ass whooped. If you hadn't done it, somebody else would've.
Is there a problem up the road, Sheriff?
Nope. No problems up the road.
Why don't you step out of the car, son?
I don't understand what the
Just step from the car. Nice and slow.
Sure, Sheriff.
Now step around to the back of the car and open the trunk for me.
What for?
I think you might just want to do as I say.
There's nothing in the trunk, Sheriff.
And as soon as I see that you're on your way.
You bitch! You were in on it froom the start!
Shut up! The both of you. Ain't neither one of you too smart. Especially you, boy. Don't you think I had my eye on you since first you rolled into town? You smell like trouble. Stink of it like a ripe cesspool.
I didn't do anything.
Killing Jake McKenna's got to amount to something. He wasn't much of a man, but that don't give you the right to murder him. And don't tell me you didn't, 'cause I know you did. I was there. Like I said; I been watching you.
That's what this is all about? A shakedown? You picked the wrong people. We don't have any money.
Sure you do. Everybody in town knows about the money Jake kept hid in the house. It's a wonder the Mrs. here just now got round to killing him. Not for lack of trying.
What'd you think, boy? That you were the first man to drift through this town she came on to? Not by a long shot. You're just the most gullible. How much did you get?
Thirtythousand dollars.
You ain't passing these test, son. If I can't trust you I'm gonna have to arrest you . . .
Nobody's going to hang. We're all gonna walk away with a little something. I ain't a greedy man. And, hell, you did all the work. Onehundredthousand dollars. Split that three ways and it comes out to about thirtythree thousand. Give or take.
And you're taking?
John, what a surprise. I expected to be seeing you, not talking to you over the phone.
I know, Mr. Vesci. I know. I was on my way to you, it's just . . . what a day I've had. You're not going to believe what's happened to me. I had the money, I swear I had it. I was on my way to you when my car breaks down in the middle of nowhere.
That's a shame, John. A real shame.
You don't know the how, Mr. Vesci. And that's not the half of it. I've got your money, and I go into this little grocery store to get something to eat and it gets robbed.
Let me guess. This robber; he gets your money.
No. He gets shot by the old lady.
The old lady?
With a shotgun. It kills him, and it shreads the money. I mean, what are the odds?
You're the gambler. You tell me.
I had to beat it before the cops showed up. I don't have a cent to my name. I can't even get my car out of the garage. I tell you, Mr. Vesci, if it weren't for bad luck I wouldn't have any at all. So, I was wondering if you could wire me a hundred fiftydollars so I could get my car. I'll pay it back with the rest of the money.
Let me get this straight: You owe me thirteenthousand dollars, you call me  collect  then ask me to wire you onehundredfifty dollars just so you can get your car fixed.
A hundredfortyfive really.
A hundred and . . . Now you listen to me you deadbeat, little punk: I don't care if you got hit by a truck and run over by a steamroller. You owe me thirteenthousand dollars and I want it. I don't care how you get it, or where from, but I want it on my desk tomorrow, or I'll show you what real bad luck is.
Do you understand me you little fuck?
Yes, Mr. Vesci.
And John, don't make me come look for you.
Fucking kid. And look at you; breaking fucking pencils. You're a Neanderthal.
Hello? Hello!? Operator, I got disconnected. Hello . . .
I wasn't doing anything.
That's not the way it looked to me. Looked to me like you was trying to make time with her.
Make time? Is everybody in this town slap happy?
Look, pal, I wasn't making a play for your girl.
You expect me to believe that?
I don't care what you believe as long as you leave me alone.
Mister, I'm calling you out.
What? You want to fight? Over her?
You're fucked.
You know who I am? Toby N. Tyler. My friends call me TNT. You know why?
They're not very imaginative?
'Cause I'm just like dynamite. And when I go off somebody gets hurt.
Fine. I was making time with your girl. Now I'm all scared, and I'll never make that mistake again. Now go away.
Not before I settle with you.
Christ, I don't believe this.
Stand up.
I wasn't hitting on your girl!
Stand up, Mister, or I'll beat you where you sit.
Mister!
Oh, shit!
That's right, Mister. You better be afraid. I told you it wasn't over, but you didn't listen. Now I find you sneakin' around with my girl behind my back.
I wasn't sneaking around with your girl. Would you please tell him?
Oh, that tears it, Mister. I'm gonna bust you up but good. I'm gonna bust you into a million pieces and then . . . and then bust those pieces up, and then . . . and then spread them all around. That's what I'm gonna do. You don't know what you're dealing with, Mister. I'm crazy. I'm psycho crazy.
Yeah, I know. You're TNT. Just like dynamite. When you go off somebody gets hurt. All right. Let's do this.
Get up, Mister! Don't ever let it be said Toby Tyler beat the living shit out of someone without giving them a fair chance.
What the hell are you doing? Are you crazy?
I'm doing what any man would do if he'd been offended. I'm beating you up.
You stupid punk! You don't even know what you're fighting over!
My honor, that's what I'm fighting over. Now get up off the ground, or do I have to whoop you where you lie?
Now, what's this?
Give it to me!
Mexico? You're going to Mexico?
I'm leaving. You never have to see me again. Just please, give me the ticket!
This means something to you? Jenny means something to me.
Nooo!
I'm gonna beat you so bad you gonna be eatin' nothing but soup the rest of your days. Rain dogs is gonna be prettier than you when I'm done. I'm gonna mess you up so bad you gonna make your own momma sick. I'm gonna . . .
Hey, Mister. You gotta quarter?
What?
I wanna play a song on the juke. You got a quarter?
What happened to your hand?
Accident, and yeah, I got to be more careful.
Got any requests?
That country shit all sounds the same to me.
How about I pick one out for you?
You like Patsy Cline? I just love her. How come, I wonder, she don't put out no more new records.
She's dead.
Gee, that's sad. Don't that make you sad?
I've had time to get over it.
You're not from around here, are you? Where you from?
Oz.
You ain't from Oz. Oz is in that one movie.
You're too quick for me.
Hey, Mister. Mister. I just. . . I just wanted to thank you.
For what?
For defending my honor this afternoon.
I hate to bust your bubble, but I wasn't defending you.
But you was going to fight for me.
I wasn't going to fight for you. I was just going to beat the shit out of your boyfriend.
He's not my boyfriend. I mean, I let him take me out and stuff, but I ain't spoken for. Not yet that is.
Get it through your head, little girl; I'm not going for you. If this Toby likes you, then if I were you I'd marry him. You're not going to get much better in this town.
That's what I thought until you came riding in. I saw your car over at the gas station. It's cool. Want to take me for a ride? Desert's kind of lonely this time of day.
How old are you?
Eighteen. Well, I'm gonna be eighteen in two years, but that don't mean you can't take me for a ride if you want.
No, I don't want to take you for a ride. What I want is for . . . Hey, you don't happen to have a hundred and fifty dollars I could
You're too late, Toby. We're going to get in his fancy car and ride off and leave you behind.
What the hell are you talking about?
What's your name anyway?
Toby Tyler, it don't matter to me if you beat him all up and knock out all his teeth and he's just drooling and bleeding all over hisself, 'cause we love each other and we gonna run off, and I'm gonna have his love child.
Will you shut up!
Don't be afraid of him none. I don't care what he does to you, we can still be together.
Get away from me!
I asked you a question.
Aw, Toby, we weren't doing nothing. We was just talking.
You shut your mouth, girl, and get back over to our table. Now, I'm not going to ask you again, Mister. What were you doing with my girl?
Honest, Toby. I just asked him for a quarter for the jukebox.
Stay out of this, Jenny. We got man's business to take care of.
I want to stay.
I said come on!
Toby! Toby Tyler, leave him alone!
You stay away, Jenny. I aim to mess him up, and that ain't a thing for a woman to see.
Who the hell are you?
I'm her husband.
Husband . . .?
Now who the hell are you, and it better be good, or God help me I'll break you in half.
I . . I was helping your wife. I met her in town. She needed a hand with her drapes. That's all.
Didn't much look like you were hanging drapes.
I swear to you that's all that happened. I haven't so much as set foot in your bedroom.
A lot that means.
Grace, tell him.
I have half a mind to
Is this what it's all about? You sucker me up here so you can watch the two of us beat the shit out of each other over you? Forget it. You want to take my head off, Mister, I won't even try to stop you. I deserve it for being an idiot. But if you're not, I think I'll be on my way.
What happened to your hand?
Accident.
You've got to be
Yeah, I know. More careful.
I guess we've never been introduced proper. Jake McKenna.
Jake McKenna. That's a solid name.
I'm a solid man.
John Stewart.
What brings you to Sierra?
My car overheated. I pulled in to have it fixed.
Where you headed?
I've got to make a stop in Vegas, then I'm heading to Santa Barbara.
Live there?
Got work. I know a man who's got a boat. Wants me to sail it for him.
You a sailor man? That'd be the life. Drive across the country, step on a boat and just sail away. A man could pretty well disappear like that. Just sail away until all he was was a memory. I guess a little place like this would just be a dot on a map to you after awhile.
I hope so. Listen, Mr. McKenna, about your wife: If I had known she was married
It wouldn't have made a difference to you, now would it? Not a wit. Do you know why? Because you're a man without scruples.
Wait a second
Ah, I can smell it on you.
Hey!
That's the sweat of a man who hasn't an honest bone in his body. Don't be offended, lad. A man who's got no ethics is a free man. I envy you that. Beside, I can hardly blame you. That Grace has a mind of her own, and a body to match, don't she? Eh?
She does at that. I knew when I married her she was a free spirit. A woman with her looks and a man my age; what was I to expect? But you see a woman like that in a town like this and you don't think, you do. So, I married her. What are you to do, eh? Women.
Can't live with them, and you can't shoot 'em.
I bet she led you on good, didn't she? Taking you up to the house with that smile of hers. Bet she wiggled her ass in your face more than once. Then me busting in like some wild bear. Bet you had a fire going under you.
Like you don't know.
Mad like a dog in heat, I bet you were. I can tell you got a temper on you.
Would you?
Would I what?
Would you kill her?
Why would I kill her?
Because I'm sick and tired of her little games. Because you could do it and drift away on your boat and no one would ever see you again. Because I've got a fiftythousand dollar life insurance policy on her, and I would be more than happy to give the man who does her in a good chunk of it.
I'm not a murderer, Mr. McKenna.
How do you know if you've never tried?
This is a joke, right? You just want to rattle me. Right?
Good Lord. What happened to you?
Just ran into a little trouble.
Another accident? You've really got to be more careful. Can I get you a drink?
No.
Hungry?
No.
I'm surprised to see you. I thought you'd be halfway to Vegas by now.
I had a problem getting my car back.
You just seem to attract trouble, don't you?
Nice office you've got.
I do all right. Real estate isn't a bad game such as it is around here. The trick is to underestimate the price when you buy it, and overvalue when you sell. You can turn a few dollars that way.
Isn't that illegal?
Now what can I do for you?
I was hoping we could talk.
Talk? About what?
About things. About your wife.
Sweet Grace? What about her?
About what you said this morning.
You said you had an insurance policy out on your wife. Fiftythousand dollars.
I do.
You said you'd cut that up with the man who did her in.
I did?
Don't play simple with me, Jake. You want me to spell it out for you? I'll kill Grace if you cut me in on the money.
I think this heat's getting to you the way you're rambling on.
I'm not rambling.
You're talking like a mad man.
You're the one who brought it up. This morning. In your car.
That was just loose talk. I don't want anybody dead.
Bullshit. You wanted me to kill her.
A man doesn't always mean the things he says.
You meant it.
What makes you say that?
Because I think you're a slimy bastard who would have his wife killed just to get his hands on some money.
And what does that make you?
The slimy bastard who's going to do it for you.
Let's say I do want her dead. What is it you want? This morning you weren't a killer.
This morning I didn't know how badly I'd want to get out of this fucking town.
And for that you'd kill Grace?
For that I'd kill a nun on Easter Sunday.
Just to get out of here? That doesn't seem much for a murder.
How do you put a price on murder?
I put it at fiftythousand dollars, minus your cut, of course. Which is?
Make it twenty.
Twentythousand? I don't have that kind of money. I won't get the insurance until months after she's dead. I don't imagine you'll want to be around after poor Grace's demise. Twentythousand; that's more money than I could ever get my hands on.
How much could you get?
Maybe . . . tenthousand. And that's a maybe.
I need thirteen.
That's a bit much.
You're not buying a car, for Christ sake. You're having your wife killed. I'm the one who's neck is stuck out. It's thirteen, or it's nothing.
You drive a hard bargain, but I had a feeling you were my boy when I met you.
I'm not your boy, Jake. I don't like you, and I don't like what you are. I got no choice but to do business with you. This is just a nasty little marriage of convenience.
Don't say that. I had a marriage of convenience with Grace, and look where that's lead. Well, looks like we got ourselves a pact.
Do we shake hands?
If you can't trust the man you've hired to kill your wife . . .?
I guess I might as well get this done with.
The sooner it's over, the sooner you're on your way. Now listen to me: It's got to look like an accident; that's the thing. If it doesn't, then it's no good. I won't get a dime, and it's my neck that'll be on the chopping block while you're living it up somewhere.
What should I do?
How the hell should I know? I've never had a wife killed before. I guess I should have hired a professional.
You want to do this yourself? I don't have to do this, you know.
Be quiet, boy. I'm thinking. It can't be done at the house. It should be . . .
This is what you do: Go to the house to see her.
And tell her what?
I went to your place. We talked, just like you told me. We drove out into the desert . . .
Is the job done?
No.
You didn't kill her?
The time wasn't right.
You're out in the desert, the middle of nowhere with no one around for miles, and you say the time wasn't right? What's the matter? You were hoping to get it on home video? A keepsake for the grandkids. Thank God I waited, or I never would have gotten it on tape.
You know what I mean.
I know all right. I know you're just enough of a shit to have a go at bedding a man's wife. You've probably bagged a few at that. You'd probably lie, cheat and steal without thinking twice. From that you'd just turn and walk away. But to kill; to get that blood on your hands. You can't wash that off. You'd be a marked man for life. Just like Cain. And you're a sinner who wants to walk with the saints. Ain't that right, boy?
You know so much about killing why don't you do it yourself?
I guess I have what you'd call a lovehate relationship with Grace.
You love her, but you hate her?
I hate loving her. I hate the kind of her person she is. I hate having to tolerate the little games she plays. I hate letting her use me. But I love her too much to do otherwise. And I certainly love her too much to kill her. I couldn't stand to watch her eyes roll back in her head as she sucks her last breath, or to see her pretty pink brains spill from her skull. But you? You got the killing in you, boy.
Shut up.
Came close this time and it scares you.
Drop it, Jake.
And next time, next time somebody is going to get dead.
SHUT UP!
Jake, how much were you going to pay me to do the job?
Thirteenthousand dollars. Had you done it. Isn't that what we agreed on?
You think that's a lot of money?
All I have in the world.
That's what I like about you, Jake. You're an honest man.
Maybe not this time, but somebody's going to get dead around you.
No.
Yeah, well, me too.
Trouble with the car again?
You could say. I don't even have it yet.
Darrell giving you problems?
He did more work on the car. He wants fifty bucks extra for it.
Fifty dollars more. That's a lot of money when you don't have a dime. And where'd you plan on getting the money from? Maybe you thought you'd pay your friend Jake McKenna a visit.
It's not like that.
Maybe you heard old Jake's got some money stashed away and you thought you'd help yourself to a little.
Wait a minute. Just listen to me
You thought you'd come in here in the middle of the night and wham! Wail off and clock old Jake McKenna and turn his brains into wall paper.
Jake
And then with Jake out of the way you could borrow twohundred dollars. Or maybe twothousand. Or twentythousand. Who's to stop you? Not Jake McKenna, 'cause old Jake would be dead.
That's not the reason I'm here. I swear it.
There's another reason? It better be good.
I came for Grace.
You came to take my wife from me?
I came to kill her.
Liar.
It's the truth, Jake.
That's a thick change of heart.
Yeah, well, a couple of hours ago I just about killed some guy over a girl. Not for money, for a girl. And she was just going to stand there and let it happen, or let him kill me. Same way Grace played us this morning. I don't like that, Jake. Not twice in one day. And maybe I'm so pissed I'd twist the next off my own Grandma to get out of here.
That's a lot of talk. A whole lot of talk.
Damn it, Jake. If I don't get out of here some guys are going to come gunning for me. And if it comes down to me or Grace, then I pick Grace. You were going to give me thirteenthousand. Give me two hundred. I'll kill her and dump the body where no one will ever find it. But I need the money. I've got to have the money.
I'm curious about something. I'm wondering just how it is you happen to know where the bedroom's at.
Wh . . . what are you talking about?
This morning when I came in on you and Grace, you swore you hadn't so much as been near the bedroom. Now you make straight for it.
Come on, Jake
Don't Jake me, boy! It's a big house. Odd that you would know your way, except maybe you've been in the bedroom before. Maybe with Grace to keep you company.
Nothing happened with me and Grace this morning.
Then maybe this afternoon. When I sent you to kill my wife you ended up sexing her instead.
Christ, Jake, please
Is that what happened? Did you even make it out to the desert, or did you just ply the afternoon between my sheets?
You're not talking sense.
Sense? If I had any sense I would have killed you this morning and been done with it.
What are you . . . you can't . . . you can't kill me.
A drifter, a loner, a trouble maker like you? Just passing through town, need money so he busts in on an, old man. Only this old man's got himself an automatic, and he knows how to use it. A man's got to protect his home. His wife. You're dead, boy, and your own mother wouldn't convict me.
What difference does it make if I slept with her. You don't care about Grace.
You're right. I don't give a damn about her. But to fuck a man's wife behind his back? That just makes a fool out of him. I don't like being made a fool of.
I don't blame you. What man would? I admit it, okay? I came back here and I made it with Grace. But if you kill me you're making a big mistake.
Not from where I stand.
It's not me you have to worry about. It's her. She wants you dead, Jake. She wants you dead and she wants your money.
What are you babbling about?
Think about it. How do you think I got in here? Did you hear any glass break? Did you hear a door splinter? How did the evening end? After you went to bed did she linger a bit? Maybe just long enough to leave the back door unlocked? Is that what happened?
You'd tell me anything to save your pathetic life.
You know what kind of woman Grace is. You know how badly she wants to get the fuck out of Sierra. What makes you think when you were planning on killing her she wasn't doing the same for you? What's she to you, Jake; a woman who would have you dead? Let me kill her. All I want is twohundred dollars to get out of here with.
Twohundred dollars.
Twohundred dollars . . . that's how I put a price on murder.
Can I give you a hand, beautiful?
I'm just going to my car.
That's right on my way.
My mother told me never to accept offers from strangers.
My name is John. Now I'm not a stranger anymore. See how easy it is for us to get to know each other, beautiful?
Do you have to call me that?
I don't know your real name.
Maybe I don't want you to.
Maybe, but if you didn't I think you would have kept on walking.
You're pretty full of yourself, aren't you?
My cup runneth over, beauti
It's Grace.
May I carry your package, Grace?
Jesus.
You sure you can manage?
I got it.
Do you want me to carry your pack for you?
No, I've got it.
What happened to your hand?
Accident.
You should be more careful.
It's very nice of you to help me. That package is kind of heavy, and it's so hot.
No trouble at all, really.
Wasn't nothing.
Oh, this isn't my car. It's down a ways. I should have parked closer. I just didn't think it would be so heavy. I could drive up.
That's all right. I got it.
It's nothing. Really.
I just got tired of looking at the old drapes. Had them long as I can remember.
That a fact?
I saw these in the Penny's catalog, and I just knew I had to have them. You ever seen something and just knew you had to have it?
Yes, I have.
'Course they cost a little more than I should really be spending. But, damn it, I don't hardly ever do anything nice for myself. I deserve nice things.
I . . . can't . . . argue . . .
Thank you, John.
You're welcome, Grace.
You're not from around here, are you?
Why you say that? Just because I help a lady with her package?
You don't have that dead look in your eyes like the only thing you live for is to get through the day.
I just drove in this morning.
Drove into Sierra? What for?
Didn't have a choice. My car overheated up the road.
Good luck it didn't happen a few miles back. Maybe they never would have found you. Day like today you'd be dead for sure.
Yeah, my luck. I get to be stuck out here in this hole in the desert.
Least you can leave.
Not until my car's fixed. I don't know how long that's going to take.
And here I've made you all hot and sweaty.
Where you coming from?
All over. Chicago, Miami, Detroit. Just lately Albuquerque.
You've been around.
I guess I've got wander in my blood.
Where you headed?
I don't know. I have to make a stop in Vegas. Business to finish. Then maybe I'll head to Santa Barbara. I might be able to pick up some work there.
You just travel around, no direction, no steady work. You must like taking chances.
If you're going to gamble, might as well play for high stakes.
What happens if you lose?
I pack up and go somewhere else.
Somewhere else. I've never been anywhere else. Just once. Years ago. Went to the state fair. It was nice, but it wasn't nothing.
I couldn't stay in this place. I wouldn't. I'd just pick up, do whatever I had to do, and get out.
That's good. Cools you right off. I saw you watching me.
I'm sorry. I didn't mean to.
I didn't say it bothered me.
Did you like it; me watching you?
I guess. I've got an ego same as any man.
Good, 'cause I liked what I saw.
Nice place you got here.
Thank you.
Must get kind of lonely for a woman living by herself in a big house.
I guess it must.
What do you do anyway?
A little of this, a little of that. Mostly I tell fortunes.
Where'd you learn to do that?
From my father. He was the tribe's Shaman.
A medicine man?
Those are white words, not ours.
Nice house for a Shaman's daughter. You must be good.
Come here.
My face tell you all that?
It tells me what every face tells me. Everybody has a past, they have a pain, and they have something they want. What is it you want?
The same thing you do.
There. All done. Lift me down.
What?
Lift me down.
You can let go of me now. I'm safe. How do they look.
Like you.
Beautiful?
Like they're made of polyester.
I like them. I was sick of looking at this room. I think they add a little life.
Nothing like a little liveliness.
No more drapes to hang. Now what should we do?
I have ideas.
Such as?
All right, Grace. No more games.
Games?
You flirt with me, then you run cold. You lead me on, then slap me down. I don't go for being jerked around.
Really? And what game did you want to play? You carry my box for me, and I fall into bed with you?
I think I can find my own way back to into town.
Maybe I like to find out about a man first. Maybe I like to know what he's made of.
I'm just flesh and blood, baby. That and a few memories of bad women; just like most guys. But you already know that. You read my fortune. Thanks for the lemonade.
You never did answer my question.
Still playing?
That's not an answer. What is it you want?
You know what I want.
Maybe I just want to hear you say it.
Damn it, Grace! Tell him.
If he says that's what happened, Jake, it must be true.
Doesn't the heat bother you?
Yeah, but I like the sun. I grew up on a reservation. The sun, the desert; they were like a religion to us. Jake's the same way. He loves the desert. I guess we're alike that way. That's about the only way.
You love him?
No.
Did you ever?
Depends on what you call love. When I was growing up I had nothing. I learned to want everything. I wanted more than Sierra anyway. Jake was my ticket. He's not much; he's older than me, different than me, but he's got more money than half this town put together. I courted him. I let him think he was courtin' me, but I reeled him in like a fish on a line. I wanted him. I wanted what he could give me, and I would've done anything to get him. Is that love?
I'm guessing no.
Yeah, I guess you're right.
And I take it things didn't much work out the way you planned.
I'm still here, aren't I? See this?
All this nothing? I've spent my life in this stinking desert. It doesn't get to Jake like it got to me. He doesn't mind being out here. He doesn't mind being nothing but a land broker. Big fish in a small pond, he says. More like a little fish in a dried up watering hole.
You could just leave him.
I don't know how.
You just walk away.
It's not that easy. Maybe you can take chances; maybe you can wander around like some stray wherever you please. I can't. I don't want to be alone. I need to know I'm going to be taken care of.
You need a meal ticket is what you mean. Some guy you can latch onto just long enough for him to get you out of here.
Is that so bad? It's not like I wouldn't try to make him happy. For awhile, anyway. I mean, I would . . . do things for him. I guess I'm no good that way. I guess I tried to sucker you along like that. Do you hate me for it? I wouldn't blame you if you did. But maybe it's like you said: You just got to do whatever it takes to get out.
Whatever it takes.
How far is it to California?
From here? I don't know. Far. Far enough.
Have you ever been there before?
Yeah.
Is it pretty?
Beautiful. Beautiful beaches. Blue water and clear skies as far as you can see.
Take me with you.
I can't.
Please. I won't hang on you. As soon as we get there you can dump me. I don't care. I just want to get out of here.
Grace, I can't. I can't even get out of here myself. I need a hundredfifty bucks to get my car back from that crazy mechanic.
I know where we could get the money. A lot more than onehundredfifty dollars.
Where?
Jake.
You think Jake's going to give me money just so I can take you out of here?
He doesn't give it to us. We take it.
From?
He's got money. In a floor safe in the living room. I've never seen it, but he talks about it all the time. More like brags. He loves his money. Wouldn't think of spending some of it on me.
You live pretty good.
Yeah, a bird in a gilded cage.
How much money has he got?
Near as I can figure must be about a hundredthousand.
Onehundredthousand!? That sonof abitch lied to me.
Lied? What do you mean?
I . . . nothing. Just something he said. So if the money's in a safe we'd have to get the combination
It's not a combination lock. It takes a key. He keeps it on him all the time. I mean all the time. It scratches up against me when we do it.
If the key's on him, to get the key we'd have to . . .
We'd have to kill him.
John? John where are you going?
I think this heat is making me crazy. I was crazy to come back here, I'm crazy for listening to anyone in this town, and I'd sure as hell be crazy if I spent another minute in this place.
John, please
I don't know what I was thinking, but I can't do it.
What are you talking about?
Kill someone. I can't do it.
Is it so bad? It would be quick. He wouldn't even have to feel it.
Shit!
It's not like he's a young man. He's had time to live.
Jesus Christ! Listen to yourself! I can't do it, Grace. I can't do it.
I thought you would be on your way to Vegas by now. Is there something you wanted?
I wanted to talk.
I don't think we have anything to talk about.
What about us?
There is no us, remember?
Except I can't get you out of my head, Grace.
I've thought about you every second since I left. I can still taste you on my lips.
Stop it.
Why? Am I making you hot, or does the truth scare you?
Because I know you're full of shit.
I mean it, Grace. I'm getting out of here, and I want to take you with me.
I thought you couldn't leave. I thought you couldn't get your car.
I could if I had Jake's money.
Is that what changed your mind? The money?
I don't give a damn about the money. I want you, and I want to get us out of this shithole. There's only one way to do that.
Are you sure? About me, I mean?
I came back for you; this morning I came back. Before I even knew about the money. You're what I want.
The only reason I stormed off is because you sort of spooked me talking about Jake. But I've had nothing but time to think about it. It keeps coming back to you and me and us getting the hell out of here. But we've got to get the money, baby. We get the money, I get the car, then we get the hell out.
You said you couldn't kill anybody.
We don't have to kill him. Just knock him out and tie him up 'till we get away.
Grace . . . Grace?
After dark. I'll leave the back door unlocked.
Why the hell didn't you do anything?
What was I supposed to do?
You could have hit him, or kneed him in the balls.
Where's the safe?
I don't know.
You don't know? Jesus Christ! Don't you think you should have found out before we killed him?
I'm not sure where it is. Not exactly. I never saw it. I just heard him talk about it.
Oh, that's great. We killed Jake because you heard him talk about some money that you've never seen. That's fucking brilliant!
Don't yell at me!
Nothing. There's no safe under here.
There has to be!
There isn't! There's nothing under here but more floor. Jesus fucking Christ! We killed a man for nothing but floor.
It's got to be here. I heard him talk about it. He bragged about it. Six steps out, three left.
This is good. This is real good. This is so good they might not even charge us with murder when they catch us. They'll probably just lock us up for being idiots.
If it isn't here, why would he wear that stupid key?
You're calling Jake stupid? You!?
Don't yell at me! I know it's here! I know it!
There's easily a hundredthousand in there. More than that.
I told you. I knew it was there. Didn't I tell you?
If you want.
We're going all the way. Together.
Let's go in the bedroom.
No.
Let's do it here.
What about him?
Let him watch. I want him to know what he's missing.
You got a suitcase?
Never needed one. I've never been anywhere. I've got a backpack.
Get it, and put the money in it. Pack up anything else you want to take with you.
Where are you going?
To get my car.
Wait. What about . . . him?
Put some clothes on him. When I get back We'll load him in the trunk and dump him in the desert. It'll takes days for anybody to find him.
John!? What the hell's the matter with you?
I . . . nothing. I just stubbed my toe on a rock. Hurt like hell . . . that's all.
I got the money all packed. I put the jeep in the garage. Figure that way people will think maybe me and Jake went away. Might buy us some time.
Yeah. Good thinking.
Had push it in. Funny thing; it wouldn't start.
Funny thing.
John . . .?
Grace! Just . . . let me handle this. Sheriff, I'm telling you there's nothing in that trunk. If that's not good enough for you, then I'd be happy to open it. Just as soon as you get yourself a search warrant.
Sheriff Potter, please. I can't go to jail. I wanted no part of it.
You liar! You wanted him dead. You seduced me into killing him!
Onehundredthousand dollars. A little more.
Damn you! What did you do that for? He can't prove anything.
No, you just wanted me to keep my mouth shut so I could go to a hanging alone.
That's all talk. He's got nothing on us. He let you kill Jake.
Not me. Us.
It doesn't matter. He was there and he let it happen. He can't take us in.
Give him the money.
What?
You heard me. Count it out.
He can't prove anything, John. He can't turn us in.
He can kill us. I don't know about you, but my life is worth thirty thousand dollars.
I shot him.
You killed him!
He was going to take the money.
Thirtythousand, that's all. We would have been free and clear. You didn't have to kill him.
It's our money. He had no right to take it.
You're crazy, you know that!? You're fucked up!?
Just drive.
Jesus, Grace. Did you have to kill him?
He was going to
I know. He was to take the fucking money.
You're tense. What are you all uptight about?
You killed a man for no reason!
Is that the kind of girl you think I am? What can I do to make you relax?
You could give me the gun.
Well, nothing.
Now what?
Now we dump Jake, split the money, then you're on your own.
But you said we could be together.
Are you kidding? I'm not going down with you for killing a cop.
What difference does it make? You killed Jake.
<u>We</u> killed Jake. And it's a big difference. You kill an old man, that's one thing. Nobody cares about an old man. You kill a cop and they never stop looking for you. Never.
He was a crooked bastard. He would have killed us.
The police don't know that. And it's going to be hard to explain it to them with a noose around your neck. I'll take you as far as California. If we can even make that. After that I'm cutting you loose.
But I want to say with you,
Why? So when the cops catch up with us you can try and sell me out again? You take your hald of the money and run. You might want to try Mexico. With all that dough you'll live like a queen.
I don't want to go to Mexico, John. I want to be with you. Don't you think I care about you?
I think you're a lying, back stabbing bitch. But it's nice to know you care.
John!
Grace!
Are you all right?
I think I busted my leg.
Can you climb back up.
I can't make it. Grace? Grace!?
I'm here.
Grace, listen to me. In the trunk of my car is a rope. It should reach down here. Got get it, throw it down and I'll climb up.
I'll get it.
John! Can you hear me? Are you still there?
Where the hell am I going to go?
John, you have to throw the keys up to me.
John, throw me the keys.
What for?
The trunk. It's locked.
It's not locked. I left it open when I took out Jake's body.
It's . . . it's locked.
You closed it, didn't you, Grace?
I was going to back the car to the ridge and pull you up.
Bullshit, Grace. You were going to drive off and leave me here.
No. I swear it.
And you're not one to lie, are you?
Throw me the keys and I'll pull you up.
Why don't you come down and get them so I can wring your pretty little neck?
John, if you don't throw me the keys, then I'll just walk away. Walk away and leave you here.
Walk to where? We're fifty miles to the nearest town. It's going to be over onehundred degrees today. How far do you think you're going to get?
Someone will find me.
Yeah, they'll find you. Dried up and twice dead.
You idiot! You'll kill us both!
At least I'll have company when I die. Ain't that right, Jake?
For Christ's sake, John! Throw me the keys!
What do you say, Jake? Should we trust her? No? I didn't think so.
Fuck you! Do you hear me, John!? Fuck you! John . . . John!?
Jake. I thought you would be at work, dear.
Who the hell is this!?
Who was that on the phone?
Wrong number.
You spent a long time talking for a wrong number. But then you make friends so easily. Don't you, Grace?
I put up new drapes, Jake.
I know. I was here when your apprentice was helping you. Remember?
You never said anything. About the drapes.
They look nice.
You haven't even looked at them once.
They look nice.
I picked them out for you, Jake. I thought you would like the colors.
Uhhuh
What the hell you looking at, girl?
Nothing, Jake. Absolutely nothing.
What's the matter?
You didn't hear something?
How could I? I was sleeping.
There's someone in the house.
I don't hear anything. You were dreaming. Or maybe the wind blew something over.
The wind isn't blowing.
Jake, what is that?
What does it look like?
When did you buy a gun?
Oh my God, Jake, no. If it is someone they'll go away. Or call the police. Don't go out there.
What are you afraid of? I'm the one's got the gun. Stay here.
Jake. No. No!
That yours, Mrs. McKenna?
Yes. Yes it is.
Taking a little trip?
I had a fight with Jake. I . . . I just wanted to get away for awhile. Mr. Stewart was kind enough to take me as far as Montrose. I'm going to take a bus to my sister's. I thought I'd stay with her for a few days.
Is that right? Can't say as I blame you for wanting to head out for a bit. I know I've had my fill of this town. Sixteen years I've been the law and order here. So long I forgot why I ever wanted the job in the first place. Help people, I guess. Keep the peace. Problem is there's so much peace around here they don't much need me. Got a lot of speeders, but they're speeding through miles of nothing so I can't hardly blame them. Other than that, well, there ain't much to steal. I reckon that the last big crime we had was, what would you say Mrs. McKenna? A murder?
I . . .
I could do that. 'Course we'd have to go back into town. There'd be a whole crowd of people around when the trunk was opened. A whole crowd of witnesses. That wouldn't be too pretty, now would it?
John . . .
Is that the way you want it, boy? A bullet in the head in the middle of the desert? Ends like this and you won't be able to spend a dime of that blood money.
He killed him, Sheriff! I couldn't stop him! He made me come with him. He told me if I said a word he would kill me too.
For the love of God would you two give it a rest? Lord almighty. In all my years I have never seen anything so pathetic. How far did you think you were going to get with this? Neither one of you can wait to slit the others throat. Now use what little smarts you got. If I was going to bust you I wouldn't have waited until after you killed Jake.
What do you want?
Same thing you want. I want to be out of Sierra; to be able to do as I please. But that takes money.
. . .at the very least. I know there was more than thirtythousand dollars. Now, how much did you get?
Don't tell him anything. He can't do this.
Can't I? You're out in the desert, all alone, with a body in your trunk. What do you think, boy?
There you go, Mrs. McKenna. Just put it in there.
John
That wasn't so bad. What's thirty somethousand to rich folks like you? It didn't hurt a bit.
Sheriff Potter.
What was that all about?
You know how that Toby is. Thinks every man he sees is after his Jenny.
More like Jenny is after every man she sees.
You pay Toby no mind. He just likes to show off for his girl. Give him a couple of hours, he'll cool off. Still want that beer?
Poor thing. Is she all right?
'Cept that she lost her money and the sons of bitches stole her wedding ring. That's when she started shooting. Can't blame her. The ring was all Carlos left her when he died.
Lord! Put the baby in the icebox. Killed the poor thing.
Baby didn't die. Just froze off all it's finger and toes. Just a little fingerless, toeless boy now. But the husband; he sees what the wife's done, so after he saves the baby he locks the wife in the refrigerator to see how she likes it. Now she died.
Let me get your change.
Flo, I'm just gonna help myself to a refill on the coffee.
Ned! Now look at what you done! Are you all right?
I think I burned my gun hand!
It'd serve you right. Jose, run get a mop and clean this mess up.
Now that you're so well off, can I get you something, Hon?
You got beer?
What would a truck stop be without beer?
Let me have a Beck's.
We ain't got no Beck's.
Kirin?
No, we ain't got no Kirin. We got Miller.
Genuine Draft?
No. We got Miller. Regular Miller. You want it, or don't you?
Yeah, give me the Miller.
Shasta! Now why'd you go and scare the nice man like that? Sorry about that, hon. Enjoy your beer, and try to have a nice day.
Yeah, I'll try.
You want somethin'?
You Harlin?
Nope. Darrell.
Harlin around?
He's up at the Look Out.
Will he be back soon?
Doubt it. He's dead. The Look Out's a cemetery.
You own this place?
Yep.
Then why do you call it Harlin's?
'Cause Harlin used to own it.
But he's dead.
So?
You want to take a look at my car? I think the radiator hose is
Damn. Gonna be another hot one today.
That'll make five in a row. Never seen it so hot. Sometimes I don't even want to get out of bed. I'd rather just lay there and try to catch a breeze. I was in Mexico this one time
Look, pal, I've got places to be. Could you just take a look at my radiator hose. It's busted.
It's your radiator hose. It's busted.
I know it's busted. What did I just tell you?
Well, you know so much why don't you just fix it yourself?
If I could do you think I'd be standing here wasting my time. Can you fix it, or do I have to go somewhere else?
Somewhere else? Mister somewhere else is fifty miles from here. How you planning on getting it there? You gonna push this heap yourself?
Okay, I'm stuck. You happy? Now can you fix it, or not?
Hey!
Yeah, I can fix it. Gotta run over to the yard and see if I can find a hose like this one, or close enough. Gonna take time.
How much time?
Time.
What time is it now?
Twentyafterten.
Jesus. Twentyafterten and it must be ninety already.
Ninetytwo. Only gonna get hotter. I remember one time . . .
Accident.
You got to be more careful. I remember one time
Yeah, right. Someplace in this dust bowl I can get something to drink?
Truck stop up a piece. Not much, but us simple folk like it.
I'll be back in a couple of hours. And be careful with her, will you?
Just a car.
Hey.
Hey, your . . . what the hell happened to you.
Nothing.
Don't look like nothing.
Just banged my head. It was an accident.
Another accident? You got to be more careful.
Look, I just want to pick up my car.
She's all yours. Put a new hose in it, and she runs like a dream now.
How much?
Well . . . parts, labor . . . let's call it a hundredfifty bucks.
How much!?
Hundredfifty.
To replace a God damn radiator hose!?
A God damn radiator hose in a sixty fourandahalf Mustang. You know how long it took me to find that hose?
About an hour and a half, because that's all the longer I've been gone.
That's about an hour and a half longer than I usually spend looking for parts. You're the one thinks that car's so damn fancy. What you expect but fancy damn prices?
That's a Ford, not a Ferrari. You going to tell me no one else in this shit hole drives a Ford?
That's not just a Ford, that's a sixtyfourandahalf Mustang.
What's that got to do with the radiator hose?
I don't know, but it's the reason I'm living here and you're just passing through. Now you owe me a hundredfifty dollars.
It might as well be fifteenhundred dollars, because I don't have the money.
Then you ain't gonna have the car.
Listen, man. I got rolled half and hour ago for everything I had.
Then you're only a hundredforty five in the hole. Now why don't you just take your Visa Express Silver Card, call Karl Malden and have him send you the money lickity split.
I don't have a credit card. They took my wallet.
Now that's too bad. I sure hope you know how to wash dishes or shovel shit 'cause you're gonna have to work this one off.
You son of a bitch!
Sweet talk me all you want, I still want my hundredfortyfive dollars.
Hey there. I was beginnin' to think you wasn't comin' back. You don't look so good.
Yeah, well, I've been around the bend a bit.
One of those days you feel like you been runnin' in circles and you ain't no closer to where you tryin' to get than when you started?
You've been there?
Hell, I've had days I would gladly trade with a whippin' dog. Ain't much you can do when you feel like that 'cept tough it out.
You believe that?
You think bad, and bad is what you get.
That's a good piece of advice, Darrell.
No charge.
Listen, Darrell, about that hundred fifty bucks for the car, as soon as I get where I'm going I swear I'll
Twohundred.
What?
It's going to cost you twohundred dollars.
You said this morning the hose was going to run me onefifty.
Yep. For the hose. But while you was gone I replaced a gasket. That's going to run you another fifty.
I didn't tell you to replace any gasket.
Yeah, but it was shot.
I didn't tell you to do it! You can't just do unauthorized work.
Well, now, you just know all there is about bein' a mechanic, don't you? I can't do unauthorized work. I suppose I can just let you ride out of here with a bad gasket. Then you get in an accident and get killed. Or worse. Who they gonna blame then? They gonna blame me, and there goes my reputation.
What reputation? You're nothing but an ignorant, inbred, tumble weed hick.
Is that an insult? Are you insulting me.
Listen you stupid fuck, I want my car.
Take it. As soon as I get my money. Fifty dollars for an almost new gasket. You don't know what kind of a deal you're getting.
I'm taking my car, and I'm taking it now!
You listen to me, you fancy city man. You owe me money, and this car ain't going nowheres until I get it. And if you take another five hours I'll find another fifty dollars worth of work to do on her. Now get out of here! You're stinking up my garage.
No!
What's the matter? The fight gone out of you? I'm just gonna smash a headlight. Maybe two.
Please, just leave the car alone.
Yeah, you better remember that.
Goddamn you! You son of a bitch!
There you go, sweet talking me again.
What you want?
Open up!
We're closed. Come back in the morning.
It is morning.
Come back when the sun comes up.
What the hell . . . oh it's you. Might've figured. What do you want?
I want my car.
You got the money?
Twohundred dollars in hundred dollar bills. And this morning you was broke.
What's it to you?
I don't want no dirty money. I run an honest business.
Honest like Al Capone on tax day. Where are my keys?
Can I help you, sir?
I need a ticket.
Where to?
Out of here.
But, in particular?
I . . . Mexico. You got a bus that goes to Mexico? That's where I have to go.
Where in Mexico would you like
I don't care, just get me there.
We have a bus to Mexico. Arrives in two hours. Have to make a couple of connections, but it will get you across the border.
How much.
One way, or round trip?
One way.
Thirty even.
Twentyseven, fifty. That's all I got.
The ticket is thirty dollars.
I bought a beer. That was two fifty. I bought a beer, otherwise I would have thirty.
I'm sorry, sir. It's thirty dollars for the ticket.
Yeah. Just a little short. Figures. I just wanted to get out, that's all.
Please, you don't understand. I have to get out of here. They're going to come looking for me. They're going to kill me. If I can't get this ticket then I'm going to have to do things to get out of here. I don't want to hurt anybody, I just want to leave.
I'll give you the money! Okay? I'll give you twofifty. Just . . . just, please.
Onehundredthirteen degrees. That was back in July of fortyseven. Now there ain't no way it's gonna be hotter than that.
Hundred and eight already.
Hundred and eight ain't a hundred and thirteen.
Will be.
You ain't nothing but an old fool.
You got two years on me. What's that make me?
It's nonsense.
It is not.
A coin's got two sides. When you flip it there's a fiftyfifty chance it'll be heads or tails. Boyd thinks if you flip a coin ten times half the time it'll come up each side.
It will.
No it won't. You just don't know shit about statistics.
And what are you? A rocket scientist?
I got more brains than you've got teeth.
Put your money where your chicken lipped mouth is. I'll bet this mornings pay I'm right.
I'll take a piece of that bet. I say it doesn't come up five times each side.
Well, a man with some gumption. How much money you got?
Nothing.
You want to make a kiddies bet?
I'll bet my watch against your pay.
It's a Movado.
Never heard of it. It's got no day or date. Hell, it ain't even got numbers. What's the matter? You couldn't afford a Timex?
Next city you're in take it to a jeweler. He won't give you less than fourhundred for it.
Thirtybucks? That's it?
That's my morning's pay.
I'm a rich man off of thirty bucks?
Hey! You there!
You want something, old man?
Don't call me old man. Ain't you got no respect, boy?
You want something?
Yeah I want something. I want you to run over to that machine and get me a pop.
You can't do that yourself?
Hell no, I can't do that myself. I'm blind. Can't you see that?
I'm sorry, I didn't
What'd you think I was doing out here with these glasses on? Sunnin' myself?
I don't know. I thought you were keeping the sun from your eyes.
I ain't got no eyes. You want to see?
Christ no!
Lost my eyes on Okinawa. Lost them fighting the war. Fought the war and lost my eyes just so you could come around here and make fun of me.
I said I was sorry.
Don't be sorry. Just run over there and get me my pop before I die of thirst.
Yeah, sure. You got change?
Change? You want my change? I fought the war and lost my eyes just so I could give you my change?
All right, old man. Christ.
Get me a Dr. Peppa! I don't want no Pepsi. Pepsi ain't nothing but flavored water.
Yeah, yeah.
Don't forget to open it for me. I can't be opening my own bottle.
Christ!
I think you'd better give your pooch a sip. He looks sick.
That's 'cause he's dead.
Oh, Jesus.
I hope you wasn't pettin' him none, was you?
What the hell are you keeping a dead dog around for?
He's only just dead. What was I supposed to do with him? I can't take him away anywhere. And nobody wants to take him for me. Do you?
He no!
See. Ain't nothing I can do but keep him here beside me. That's where he belongs anyways. Me and Jesse, that's my dog, not anymore, but me and Jesse we been pals since the war when I lost my eyes. He was just a pup then . . .
You sure seen a lot for a blind man.
Just 'cause I ain't got eyes doesn't mean I can't see.
That a fact?
I can see just fine. For example: You're a young man who thinks he's got someplace to be.
Maybe I do.
Or maybe you just think you do. You can run just as far as you can, but wherever you go, there you are.
I think I've heard that before.
What do you want for free?
You sure got a lot of philosophy, old man.
That's 'cause I've done a lot of living.
Maybe one day I'll get to sit on a corner and spout wise.
Think you'll live that long?
Ain't you got a little something for the infirm?
I'm a little short. I'll catch you next time.
I won't hold my breath.
The day wasn't so bad. We all got through it all right.
Ain't over yet. Night is part of day; separate, but equal. Night is when you let your guard down; when you see things in the shadows and hear things in the dark.
You're a hell of a pessimist, old man.
Night is when you want to sleep, but the dry heat keeps you tossin' and turnin'. It's when you wish the sun was bakin' high in the sky so you could see what it is you're afraid of.
You afraid of the dark?
Afraid of it? Boy, I live in the dark. People are afraid of what they can't see. I can't see nuthin', so it's all the same to me. Kiss from a beautiful woman, a lick from a dog. The kiss of death. It's all the same.
You don't fear death?
We was born to die, boy. From the minute you take your first breath you got a death sentence hanging over your head. You just don't know where, or when, or how. Don't make sense worryin' about the particulars.
We're all just floating along like twigs in a stream, so enjoy the ride. Is that it?
More or less.
Not this twig, friend. I got plans.
We all got plans. I planned on seeing all my life. I know you didn't plan on straying into town.
No and I don't plan on sticking around either. I don't guess I'll be seeing you again. Take it easy.
Same back at you.
Any parting words of wisdom?
Things ain't always the way they seem. You got to ask yourself; is it worth it?
Nine thirty
Might be tight.
Tight? My watch says 7:30.
On your normal mornin', okay, plenty a time, but today, gotta take inta account your ArmyoftheTwelveMonkeys factor.
What? What did you say?
Twelve Monkeys, honey. Guess you folks didn't turn on your radio this morning.
 so they get there and they ask the guy real nice for some kind of i.d., and he gets agitated, starts screaming about viruses. Totally irrational, totally disoriented, doesn't know where he is, what day it is, alla that stuff. All they got was his name. They figure he's stoned out of his mind, it's some kinda psychotic episode, so they're gonna bring him...
He's been tested for drugs?
Negative for drugs. But he took on five cops like he was dusted to the eyeballs. No drugs. You believe that?
You have him in restraints.
Were you listening? We got two officers in the hospital. Yeah, he's in restraints, plus the medic gave him enough stellazine to kill a horse. Look at him! Still on his feet.
That would explain the bruises, I guess. The struggle.
You want to go in? Examine him?
Yes, please. You said he gave a name...
James Cole. That's everything we got. None of the James Coles on the computer match him. No license, no prints, no warrants. Nothing. You want me to go in with you?
No, thank you.
I'll be right here...just in case.
One dozen bolt cutters! Whadda you gonna do with one dozen bolt cutters?
You really want to know?
No! Absolutely not. Don't tell me anything.
WHY DON'T WE FORGET MY GODDAMN PSYCHIATRIST AND DEAL WITH THE TASK AT HAND. THIS IS IMPORTANT.
Your psychiatrist? Did you just say, "your psychiatrist"?
Expsychiatrist! Now, what about flashlights? How many flashlights...?
That woman is...was...your... psychiatrist? And now she's spray painting our building?
WHO CARES WHAT PSYCHIATRISTS WRITE ON WALLS? You think I told her about the Army of the 12 Monkeys? Impossible! Know why, you pathetically ineffectual and pusillanimous "pretendfriendto animals"?! I'll tell you why: because when I had anything to do with her six years ago, there was no such thing  I hadn't even thought of it yet!
Then how come she knows what's going on?
What...virus?
She knew about it, Jeffrey. She knew you were going to try this.
What virus are we talking about, Dad?
You're insane, Jeffrey.
You "develop" viruses and you're calling me insane? Typical. What does this virus attack? Don't tell me, you sick fuck, it doesn't matter. Have I ever "developed" a virus? Do I put helpless animals in cages and measure their reactions to electrical stimuli? Do I inject radioactive substances into living creatures and examine their bowel movements? Wow! And I'm crazy!
Please tell me, Jeffrey, what exactly are you going to do? I don't have to tell you I'm afraid.
THIS IS A FUCKING EXPERIMENT! YOU'RE OUR HELPLESS LITTLE TEST ANIMAL, DADDY. GOT THAT? NOW  WHAT FUCKING VIRUS HAVE YOU COME UP WITH, YOU DEMENTED FUCKING MANIAC?
Don't be defensive, Kathryn, this isn't an inquisition.
I didn't think I was being defensive. I was just...
He should have been in restraints. It was bad judgment on your part, plain and simple. why not just cop to it?
Okay, it was bad judgment. But I have the strangest feeling about him  I've seen him somewhere and...
Two policemen were already in the hospital and now we have an orderly with a broken arm and a Security Officer with a fractured skull.
I said it was bad judgment! What else do you want me to say?
You see what I mean? You're being defensive. Isn't she being defensive, Bob?
He was fully sedated!
Then are you trying to tell me that a fully sedated, fully restrained patient somehow slipped out that vent, replaced the grill behind him and that he's wriggling through the ventilation system right now?
He kidnapped you, Kathryn. You saw him murder someone. You knew there was a real possibility he would kill you, too. You were under tremendous emotional stress.
For God sakes, Owen, listen to me  he knew about the boy in Fresno and he says three billion people are going to die!
Kathryn, you know he can't possibly know that. You're a rational person. You're a trained psychiatrist. You know the difference between what's real and what's not.
And what we believe is what's accepted as "truth" now, isn't it, Owen? Psychiatry  it's the latest religion. And we're the priests  we decide what's right and what's wrong we decide who's crazy and who isn't. ... I'm in trouble, Owen. I'm losing my faith.
I mashed the spider, didn't I?
We'll get to the spider later, Mr. Cole. Right now, we want to know everything that you saw.
I asked you, why did you volunteer?
Well, the guard woke me up. He told me I volunteered.
Uh, that message...me?
It's a digital reconstruction of a message, Cole, from a weak signal on our contact number. Did you make that call?
I couldn't call! You sent me to the wrong year! It was 1989.
But you know what's real now?
Yes, sir.
JOSE!
Cole! Oh, God, Cole, where are we?
Jo...Jose????
Pulling out the tooth, man, that was nuts! Here, take this.
Me? Are you kiddin? You're the one! You were a hero, man. They gave you a pardon! And whadda you do? You come back and fuck with your teeth! Wow!
How did you find me?
The phone call, man. The phone call.
The call I just made? Five minutes ago?
Hey, five minutes ago, thirty years ago! Yes, that phone call. I been in training for this a couple a months now  ever since I got back from that... "weird" war we were in. You remember that? Here, take it, man! You could still be a hero if you'd cooperate!
This part isn't about the virus, is it?
Hey, man...
It's about obeying, about doing what you're told.
They gave you a pardon, man. Whatdaya want?
Who am I supposed to shoot?
What'd they give you? Thorazine? How much? Learn your drugs  know your doses.
I need to make a telephone call.
A telephone call? That's communication with the outside world! Doctor's discretion. Hey, if alla these nuts could just make phone calls, it could spread. Insanity oozing through telephone cables, oozing into the ears of all those poor sane people, infecting them! Whackos everywhere! A plague of madness. In fact, very few of us here are actually mentally ill. I'm not saying you're not mentally ill, for all I know you're crazy as a loon. But that's not why you're here. Why you're here is because of the system, because of the economy. There's the TV. It's all right there. Commercials. We are not productive anymore, they don't need us to make things anymore, it's all automated. What are we for then? We're consumers. Okay, buy a lot of stuff, you're a good citizen. But if you don't buy a lot of stuff, you know what? You're mentally ill! That's a fact! If you don't buy things...toilet paper, new cars, computerized blenders, electrically operated sexual devices... SCREWDRIVERS WITH MINIATURE BUILTIN RADAR DEVICES, STEREO SYSTEMS WITH BRAIN IMPLANTED HEADPHONES, VOICE ACTIVATED COMPUTERS, AND...
Germs?!
In the 18th century there was no such thing! Nobody'd ever imagined such a thing  no sane person anyway. Along comes this doctor...Semmelweiss, I think. He tries to convince people... other doctors mostly...that there are these teeny tiny invisible "bad things" called germs that get into your body and make you...sick! He's trying to get doctors to wash their hands. What is this guy...crazy? Teeny tiny invisible whaddayou call 'em?..."germs"!
"What about the germs?" I say. He goes, "I don't believe in germs. Germs are just a plot they made up so they can sell you disinfectants and soap!" Now, he's crazy, right? Hey, you believe in germs, don't you?
I'm not crazy.
Of course not, I never thought you were. You want to escape, right? That's very sane. I can help you. You want me to, don't you? Get you out?
If you know how to escape, why don't you...?
Why don't I escape, that's what you were going to ask me, right? 'Cause I'd be crazy to escape! I'm all taken care of, see? I've sent out word.
What's that mean?
I've managed to contact certain underlings, evil spirits, secretaries of secretaries, and assorted minions, who will contact my father. When he learns I'm in this kind of place, he'll have them transfer me to one of those classy joints where they treat you...properly. LIKE A GUEST! LIKE A PERSON! SHEETS! TOWELS! LIKE A BIG HOTEL WITH GREAT DRUGS FOR THE NUT CASE LUNATIC MANIAC DEVILS...
They hurt you!
Not as bad as what they're doing to kitty.
Look at those assholes, they're asking for it! Maybe people deserved to be wiped out!
Wiping cut the human race! That's a great idea! But it's more of a long term thing  right now we have to focus on more immediate goals. I didn't say a word about "you know what".
What are you talking about???
You know  your plan.
What're you writing? You a reporter?
It's private.
A lawsuit? You going to sue them?
What....???
Wooooo, they really dosed you, bro. Major load! Listen up  try and get it together. Focus! Focus! The plan! Remember? I did my part.
What...???
Not, "what", babe! When!
Never saw him before in my life. Go ahead and shoot him or torture him or whatever it is you do.
You do know me. You helped me once.
That would be totally out of character. Helping people is against my principles. See, he definitely doesn't know me. Now, I'm going to go back and listen to my father's very eloquent discourse on the perils of science WHILE YOU TORTURE THIS INTRUDER TO DEATH.
I'm here about some monkeys.
Excuse me  what did you say?
Monkeys. Twelve of them.
County Hospital, right? 1989. The "Immaculate Escape"  am I right? Why, thank you  you look wonderful, too.
Listen to me  I can't do anything about what you're going to do. I can't change anything. I can't stop you. I just want some information...
We need to talk. Come on. Upstairs. I am a new person! I'm completely adjusted. Witness the tux. It's Armani. Who chattered? Goines? Weller?
I just need to have access to the pure virus, that's all! For the future!
I don't have time to go upstairs. The police are looking for me. I need to know where it is and exactly what it is.
I get it! This is your old plan, right?
Plan? What are you talking about?
Remember? We were in the dayroom, watching TV, and you were all upset about the...desecration of the planet. And you said to me, "Wouldn't it be great if there was a germ or a virus that could wipe out mankind and leave the plants and animals just as they are?" You do remember that, don't you?
Bulishit! You're fucking with my head!
And that's when I told you my father was this famous virologist and you said, "Hey, he could make a germ and we could steal it!"
Listen, you dumb fuck! The thing mutates We live underground! The world belongs to the fucking dogs and cats. We're like moles or worms. All we want to do is study the original...
Does this bother you, Mr. Cole?
No! Look, I don't belong here! What I need to do is make a telephone call to straighten everything out.
Who would you call, Mr. Cole, who would straighten everything out?
Scientists. I'm supposed to report in to them. They'll want to know they sent me to the wrong time.
So you could talk to these scientists and they do what? Send you to the future?
No, no. I can't talk to them. It's called, "voice mail". I'm supposed to leave messages. They monitor it from the present.
Mr. Cole? My name is Doctor Railly. I'm a psychiatrist. I work for the County  I don't work for the police. My only concern is your well being  do you understand that?
I need to go now.
I'm going to be completely honest. I'm not going to lie to you. I can't make the police let you go...but I do want to help you. And I want you to trust me. Can you do that, James? May I call you "James"?
"James"! Nobody ever calls me that.
Have you been a patient at County? Have I seen you someplace?
No, not possible. Listen, I have to get out of here. I'm supposed to be getting information.
What kind of information?
It won't help you. You can't do anything about it. You can't change anything.
Change what?
I need to go.
Do you know why you're here, James.
Because I'm a good observer. Because I have a tough mind.
I see. You don't remember assaulting a police officer...several officers?
They wanted identification. I don't have any identification. I wasn't trying to hurt them.
You don't have a driver's license, James? Or a Social Security card?
No.
Why not? Most people have some ID.
You wouldn't understand.
You've been in an institution, haven't you, James? A hospital?
I have to go.
A jail? Prison?
Underground.
Hiding?
I love this air. This is wonderful air.
What's wonderful about the air, James?
It's so clean. No germs.
You're afraid of germs?
I have to go.
Why do you think there aren't any germs in the air, James?
This is April, right?
July.
July?!
Do you know what year it is?
What year is it?
What year do you think it is?
1995?
You think it's July of 1995? That's the future, James. Do you think you're living in the future?
No, 1995 is the past.
1995 is the future, James. This is 1989.
It was some lady. She didn't know anything.
Perhaps it was a wrong number...
No. That's the reason they chose me  I remember things.
James, where did you grow up? Was it around here? Around Baltimore?
What?
I have the...strangest feeling I've met you before...a long time ago, perhaps. Were you ever...?
Wait! This is only 1989! I'm supposed to be leaving messages in 1995. It's not the right number yet. That's the problem. Damn! How can I contact them?
It's just a shot to calm you.
No more drugs. Please...
I have to do this, James. You're very confused.
Cole! James Cole! You escaped from a locked room six years ago.
1989. Six years for you. There's the sign! Right here!
I can't believe this is a coincidence, Mr. Cole. Have you been...following me?
You told me you'd help me. I know this isn't what you meant, but...I was desperate... no money...bum leg... sleeping on the streets. I probably smell bad. Sorry about that. But then I saw your book in a store window with a notice about your lecture. I can read, remember?
Yes, I remember. Why do you want to go to Philadelphia?
It's the next step. I checked out the Baltimore information, it was nothing. It's Philadelphia, that's where they are, the ones who killed everyone. Zs that a radio? Does it play music?
You used to call me "James".
You'd prefer that? ... James...you don't really have a gun, do you.
Everybody's got a gun. In this city...
"Never cry wolf!"
What?
My father told me that. "Never cry wolf." Then people won't believe you if...something really happens.
"If something really happens"...like what, James?
Something bad. Is that all the music? I don't want to hear this stuff...
Did something terrible happen to you when you were a child? Something so bad...?
Ohhhh, that one! Can we hear that one?
You were in my dream just now. Your hair was different, but I'm sure it was you.
We dream about what's important in our lives. And I seem to have become pretty important in yours. What was the dream about?
About an airport...before everything happened. It's the same dream I always have  the only one. I'm a little kid in it.
And I was in it? What did I do?
You were very upset. You're always very upset in the dream, but I never knew it was you before.
It wasn't me before, James. It's become me now because of...what's happening. Please untie me.
No, I think it was always you. It's very strange.
You're flushed. And you were moaning. I think you're running a fever. What are you doing?
My notes. Observations. Clues.
Clues? What kind of clues?
A secret army. The Army of The Twelve Monkeys. I've told you about them. They spread the virus. That's why we have to get to Philadelphia. I have to find them  it's my assignment.
What will you do...when you find this...secret army?
I just have to locate the virus in its original form before it mutates. So scientists can come back and study it and find a cure. So that those of us who survived can go back to the surface of the earth.
Does that disturb you, James? Thinking about that little boy in the well?
When I was a kid I identified with that kid, down there alone in that pipe...a hundred feet down  doesn't know if they're going to save him.
What do you mean  when you were a kid?
Nevermind. It's not real  it's a hoax. A prank. He's hiding in a barn. Hey, turn left here. Left!
Look, I'm warning you. You do anything, I'm going to go crazy  hurt people!
I'm not going to "do" anything, I promise. But you need help, James. None of this is what you think it is.
They're keeping an eye on me.
Who's keeping an eye on you?
The man...with the voice. I recognized him. He's from the present. He...
Are you hurt?
Uh, no. Yes. I mean, just some scrapes...
Oh, Jesus, James! You killed him!
I did him a favor. Now come on.
You didn't have a gun before, did you?
I've got one now.
I told you what I want. Lock the door!
James, why don't we...?
Lock it now!
Mason???
Jeffrey Mason?
All I see are dead people. Everywhere. What's three more?
You know Dr. Mason's son, Jeffrey Mason, don't you, James? You met him in the County Hospital six years ago.
The guy was a total fruitcake.
And he told you then his father was a famous virologist.
We need gas.
I thought you didn't know how to drive.
I said I was too young to drive. I didn't say I was stupid.
What's the matter with your leg?
I got shot. Look  there's a gas station up ahead.
Shot! Who shot you?
It was some kind of...war. Never mind, you wouldn't believe me. Turn off here.
You were going to run out off gas on purpose, weren't you?
No. I want you to turn yourself in, James  It'll go much better for you if you do  but I'm not going to trick you.
That has your name on it. Give him cash.
You smell so good.
You have to give yourself up, you know.
What have you done? Did you...kill someone?
No! I...don't think so. I stole a car and they chased me. I hit a tree.
See  you can drive after all!
Yeah, sort of, I guess. I...I'm sorry I locked you up. I thought...I thought... I think maybe I am crazy!
What made you think that?
Jeffrey Mason said it was my idea about the virus. And suddenly, I wasn't sure. We talked when I was in the institution, and it was all...fuzzy. The drugs and stuff. You think maybe I'm the one who wiped out the human race? It was my idea?
Nobody is going to wipe out the human race. Not you or Jeffrey or anybody else. You've created something in your mind, James  a substitute reality. In order to avoid something you don't want to face.
I'm..."mentally divergent". I would love to believe that.
It can be dealt with, but only if you want to. I can help you.
I need help all right. They're coming after me.
First, it's important that you surrender to them instead of them catching you running. Okay?
It would be great if I'm crazy. If I'm wrong about everything...the world will be okay. I'll never have to live underground.
Give me the gun.
The gun! ... I lost it
You're sure?
No gun! Stars! Air! I can live here. Breathe!
James! That's a policeman. Pretend you don't know me. If he sees you...
No, I want to turn myself in. Where is he? Don't worry  it's all okay now. I'm not crazy any more! I mean, I am crazy, mentally divergent, actually, but I know it now and I want you to help me. I want to get well...
I don't understand what we're doing.
We're avoiding the police until I can....talk to you.
You mean, treat me? Cure me? Kathryn, those words on the wall  I've seen them before... I...I...dreamed them.
Okay...you were standing there looking at the moon...you were eating grass... then what?
I thought I was in...prison again.
Just like that? You were in prison?
No, not really. It's...it's in my mind. Like you said.
You disappeared! One minute you were there, the next minute you were gone. Did you run through the woods?
I don't know  I don't remember.
The boy in the well. How did you know that was just a hoax?
It was? I didn't...know.
James, you said he was hiding in the barn...
I think I saw a TV show like that when I was a kid. Where a boy...
IT WASN'T A TV SHOW! IT WAS REAL!
What does this mean to you?
...I had a dream about...something like that.
You had a bullet from World War One in your leg, James! How did it get there?
You said I had delusions  that I created a world  you said you could explain everything...
Well, I can't. ... I mean...I'm trying to. I can't believe that everything we do or say has already happened, that we can't change what's going to happen, that I'm one of the three billion people who are going to die...soon.
I want to be here. In this time. With you. I want to become...become a whole person. I want this to be the present. I want the future to be unknown.
James...do you remember...six years ago...you had a phone number! You tried to call and...
You want me to rob him?
I...I...We need cash, James.
It's a Carpet Cleaning Company...
A Carpet Cleaning Company?
No superiors! No scientists. No people from the future. It's just a Carpet Cleaning Company. They have voice mail  you leave a message telling them when you want your carpet cleaned.
You... you left them a message?
I couldn't resist. I was so relieved. Wait'll they hear this nutty woman telling them...they better watch out for the Army of the Twelve Monkeys...
You... you couldn't have heard me.
They got your message, Kathryn. They played it for me. It was a bad recording...distorted. I didn't recognize your voice.
I think I've seen this movie before. When I was a kid. It was on TV.
Shh  don't talk. Hold still.
I have seen it, but I don't remember this part. Funny, it's like what's happening to us, like the past. The movie never changes  it can't change  but everytime you see it, it seems to be different because you're different  you notice different things.
If we can't change anything...because it's already happened, then we ought to at least smell the flowers.
Flowers! What flowers?
Why are we doing this?
So we can stick our heads out the window and feel the wind and listen to the music. So we can appreciate what we have while we have it. Forgive me, psychiatrists don't cry.
But maybe I'm wrong. Maybe you're wrong. Maybe we're both crazy.
In a few weeks, it will have started or it won't. If there are still baseball games and traffic jams, armed robberies and boring TV shows  we'll be so happy, we'll be glad to turn ourselves in to the police.
You were in my dream just now. I didn't recognize you.
Well, you look pretty different, too.
I mean in my dream  I didn't realize it was you. Then...I woke up and I...I thought you were gone.
I remember you...like this. I feel I've known you before. I feel I've always known you.
That's what they were up to! Freeing animals!
On the walls  they meant the animals when they said, "We did it."
I know this place! ... This is my dream.
Airports all look the same. Maybe it's... James! Your moustache! It's slipping.
They may be looking for us, James. Use this. You can fix it in the Men's Room.
I was here...as a kid. I think you were here, too. But you...looked just like you look now.
James, if we're identified, they're going to send us someplace...but not to Key West!
Right! You're right. I have to fix this.
I'll get the tickets and meet you... in the Gift Shop.
It's important to observe everything.
I think it was...I'm sure it was 2nd Street.
They forced me to take drugs.
Forced you! Why would someone force you to take drugs?
I got into trouble. I got arrested. But I still got you a specimen  a spider  but I didn't have anyplace to put it, so I ate it. It was the wrong year anyway, so I guess it doesn't matter.
Let's consider again our current information  if the symptoms were first detected in Philadelphia on June 28, 1995, that makes us know that...?
It was released in Philadelphia, probably on June 14, 1995.
And it appeared sequentially after that in...?
San Francisco, New Orleans, Rio de Janeiro, Rome, Kinshasa, Karachi, Bangkok, then Peking.
Meaning...???
That the virus was taken from Philadelphia to San Francisco, then to New Orleans, Rio de Janeiro, Rome, Kinshasa, Karachi, Bangkok, then Peking.
And your only goal is...???
To find out where the virus is so a qualified scientist can travel back into the past and study the original virus.
So that...???
Uh, so that a vaccine can be developed that will, uh, allow mankind to reclaim the surface of the earth.
I told you that fuckhead Mason would get us into something like this.
Shut up!
That's him.
What are you going to do with us?
It's the kidnap woman  the one who was with the guy who tied us up.
What's she doing?
She's drawing attention to us, that's what she's doing. ... I don't know what you're up to this time, Mason, but you're gonna get us in deep shit!
Wow, a guy in a Chevy is chasing her and some other guy I can't see.
Hey, no problem, it's probably just another kidnapping featuring Jeffrey's shrink, pardon me, make that exshrink. This is your leader, a certifiable lunatic who told his former psychiatrist all his plans for God knows what whacko irresponsible schemes, and now who knows what she's painted out there on our wall?
To be determined by the proper authorities.
You don't want to jeopardize that reduction, do you, Cole? Have it taken away?
We want tough minded people. Strong mentally. We've had some...misfortunes with "unstable" types.
For a man in your position...an opportunity.
He's drugged out of his mind! He's completely zoned out.
Cole, did you or did you not record that message?
But just until you recover your, uh,... equilibrium.
You're still a little... disoriented.
We're very close! Because of you!
This is it, James...what you've been working for.
We want you to tell us about last night.
I went to the surface and I collected specimens like I was told.
Wake up, Cole.
Uh, I didn't hear the...
No, sir!
We have a very advanced program, something very different, requires very skilled people.
Well?
Uh, what?
Him? You saw that man?
Uh, I think so. In the mental hospital.
Women will want to get to know you...
I DON'T WANT YOUR "WOMEN," YOU BRAINLESS TWIT! I WANT TO BE WELL!
The food, the sky, the certain, uh, sexual temptations  you haven't become "addicted" have you, Cole? To that "dying" world'
No, sir! I just want to do my part. To get us back on top...in charge of the planet. And I have the experience, I know who the people are...
You said we weren't "real," Cole...
Well, sir, I don't think the human mind was built to exist in two different... whatever you call it..."dimensions." It's stressful, you said it yourselves, it gets you confused. You don't know what's real and what's not.
I understand. There'd be no point.
We're going to think about it, Cole. Among ourselves. We'll get back to you.
Excuse me, Mr. Coccotti. Do you know Nick Cardella?
No.
Then where the hell do you get off talkin' that kind of talk?
I didn't mean 
Shut your mouth. Nick Cardella was provin' what his words was worth before you were in your daddy's nutsack. What sun do you walk under you can throw a shadow on Nick Cardella? Nick Cardella's a standup guy.
What was the Jewboy's name?
Donowitz, he said.
Yes.
Are you Dick Ritchie?
No.
Do you know a Clarence Worley?
Yes.
Do you know where we can find him?
He's at the Beverly Wilshire.
Where's that?
Well, you go down Beechwood...
Hello, is Dick Ritchie here?
Naw, he ain't home right now.
Do you live here?
Yeah, I live here.
Sorta roommates?
Exactly roommates.
Maybe you can help me. Actually, who I'm looking for is a friend of ours from Detroit. Clarence Worley? I heard he was in town. Might be travelling with a pretty girl named Alabama. Have you seen him? Are they stayin' here?
Naw, they ain't stayin' here. But, I know who you're talkin' about. They're stayin' at the Hollywood Holiday Inn.
How do you know? You been there?
No, I ain't been there. But I heard him say. Hollywood Holiday Inn. Kinda easy to remember.
You're right. It is.
Fuck! I knew it! I fucking knew it! I should have my head examined, driving like this! Kandi, you gotta help me.
What can I do?
You gotta hold this for me.
You must be high. Uhhuh. No way.
Just put it in your purse.
I'm not gonna put that shit in my purse.
They won't search you. I promise. You haven't done anything.
No way, Jos.
Please, they'll be here any minute. Just put it in your bra.
I'm not wearing a bra.
Put it in your pants.
No.
You're the one who wanted to drive fast.
Read my lips.
Nigger, get outta my face with that bullshit.
Naw man, I don't be eatin' that shit.
That's bullshit.
Naw man, that's some serious shit.
Nigger, you lie like a big dog.
Preach on, Big D.
Look here. If I ever did eat some pussy  I would never eat any pussy  but, if I did eat some pussy, I sure as hell wouldn't tell no goddamn body. I'd be ashamed as a motherfucker.
Yeah, that's right, laugh. It's so funny, oh it's so funny. There used to be a time when sisters didn't know shit about gettin' their pussy licked. Then the sixties came an' they started fuckin' around with white boys. And white boys are freaks for that shit 
 Because it's good!
Then, after a while sisters use to gettin' their little pussy eat. And because you white boys had to make pigs out of yourselves, you fucked it up for every nigger in the world everywhere.
Well fuck you guys then! You guys are fucked up!
Why you trippin'? We jus' fuckin' with ya. But I wanna ask you a question. You with some fine bitch, I mean a brick shithouse bitch  you're with Jayne Kennedy. You're with Jayne Kennedy and you say "Bitch, suck my dick!" and then Jayne Kennedy says, "First things first, nigger, I ain't suckin' shit till you bring your ass over here and lick my bush!" Now, what do you say?
I tell Jayne Kennedy, "Suck my dick or I'll beat your ass!"
You tell Jayne Kennedy to fuck it?
If it came down to who eats who, damn skippy.
With that terrible mug of yours if Jayne Kennedy told you to eat her pussy, kiss her ass, lick her feet, chow on her shit, and suck her dog's dick, nigger, you'd aim to please.
What was I sayin'?
Rock whores.
You ain't seen nothin' like these rock whores. They ass be young man. They got that fine young pussy. Bitches want the rock they be a freak for you. They give you hips, lips, and fingertips.
Looky here, you want the bitches to really fly high, make your rocks with Cherry SevenUp.
Pussy love pink rocks.
You OK? That stupid dumbass didn't break your nose, did he?
Naw. It don't feel too good but it's alright.
You see what you get when you fuck wit me, white boy? You're gonna walk in my goddamn house, my house! Gonna come in here and tell me! Talkin' smack, in my house, in front of my employees. Shit! Your ass must be crazy. I don't think that white boy's got good sense. Hey, Marty. He must of thought it was white boy day. It ain't white boy day, is it?
Naw, man, it ain't white boy day.
Shit, man, you done fucked up again. Next time you bogart your way into a nigger's crib, an' get all his face, make sure you do it on white boy day.
I'll keep lover boy here entertained. You know the first thing I'll do when she gets here. I think I'll make her suck my dick, and I'll come all in her face. I mean it ain't nuttin' new. She's done it before. But I want you as a audience. Marty, what the fuck are you doin'?
I'm tryin' to find my jacket.
Look in the hamper. Linda's been dumpin' everybody's stray clothes there lately.
Look, sunshine, we found a sandwich bag of uncut cocaine 
Not a tiny little vial 
But a fuckin' baggie.
No don't sit here and feed us some shit.
You got caught. It's all fun and fuckin' games till you get caught. But now we gotcha. OK, Mr. Elliot actor, you've just made the big time 
You're no longer an extra 
Or a bit player 
Or a supporting actor 
You're a fuckin' star! And you're gonna be playin' your little oneman show nightly for the next two fuckin' years for a captive audience 
But there is a bright side though. If you ever have to play a part of a guy who gets fucked in the ass on a daily basis by throatslitting niggers, you'll have so much experience to draw on 
And just think, when you get out in a few years, you'll meet some girl, get married, and you'll be so understanding to your wife's needs, because you'll know what it's like to be a woman.
'Course you'll wanna fuck her in the ass. Pussy just won't feed right anymore 
That is, of course, if you don't catch Aids from all your anal intrusions.
Krinkle, this is it. We got it, man. And it's all ours. I mean talk about fallin' into somethin'. You shoulda seen it, it was beautiful. Dimes is hittin' him from the left about being fucked in the ass by niggers, I'm hittin' him form the right about not likin' pussy anymore, finally he starts cryin', and then it was all over 
Krinkle, you're lookin' at the two future cops of the month. We have it, and if I say we, I don't mean me and him, I'm referring to the whole department. Haven't had a decent bust this whole month. Well, we mighta come in like a lamb, but we're goin' out like a lion 
Nicholson and I.
Nicholson and I go to work on him. Now er know somthing's rotten in Denmark, 'cause this dickhead had a big bag, and it's uncut, too, so we're sweatin' him, trying to find out where he got it. Scarin' the shit outta him.
Which wasn't too hard, the guy was a real squid.
So we got this guy scared shitless and he starts talkin'. And, Krinkle, you ain't gonna fuckin' believe it.
Suspect's words 
To front for him. So Elliot is workin' out the deal between them and his boss, a big movie producer named Lee Donowitz.
He produced "Coming Home in a Body Bag".
He's so spooked he'd turn over his momma, his daddy, his twopanny granny, and Anna and the King of Siam if he had anything on him.
This rabbit'll do anything not to do time, including wearing a wire.
Like gangbusters. Now, remember, if you don't want to go to jail, we gotta put your boss in jail.
We have to show in court that, without a doubt, a successful man, an important figure in the Hollywood community, is also dealing cocaine.
So you gotta get him to admit on tape that he's buying this coke.
You do more than try.
You do.
Hope you're a good actor, Elliot.
He knows.
How the fuck could he know?
He saw the wire.
How's he supposed to see the wire?
He knows something's up.
We gotta get him outta there.
Whatta we gonna do? He's in an elevator.
He's bluffin ya, Elliot. Can't you see that? You're an actor, remember, the show must go on.
This guy's gonna kill him.
Don't blow it, Elliot. He's bluffin'. He just told you so himself.
You're an actor, so act, motherfucker.
Both you, idiots shut up, I can't understand shit! Now, what's happened, what's going on, and what are you talking about?
Okeedokee. It's like this, Krinkle; a patrol car stops this dork for speeding, they walk up to window and the guy's covered in coke. So they bring his ass in and me an' Nicholson go to work on him.
That Vietnam movie?
Uhhuh.
That was a good fuckin' movie.
Sure was.
Do you believe him?
I believe he believes him.
He'll wear a wire?
We talked him into it.
Dirty cops. We'll have to bring in internal affairs on this.
Look, we don't care if you bring in the state milita, the volunteer fire department, the L.A. Thunderbirds, the ghost of Steve McQueen, and the twelve Roman gladiators, so long as we get credit for the bust.
I'm me... I mean, that's me.
Step inside.
Well, the part you're reading for is one of the bad guys. There's Brian and Marty. Peter Breck's already been cast as Brian. And you're reading for the part of Marty. Now in this scene you're both in a car and Bill Shatner's hanging on the hood. And what you're trying to do is get him off. Whenever you're ready.
Where'd you come from?
I don't know. He just appeared as magic.
Well, don't just sit there, shoot him.
That was very good.
Thank you.
If we decided on making him a New York type, could you do that?
Sure. No problem.
Could we try it now?
Absolutely.
Where'd he come from?
I don't know. He just appeared as magic.
Well, don't just sit there, shoot him.
It's about that pimp that was shot a couple of days ago, Drexl Spivey.
What about him?
Well, Ted, to tell you the truth, I found out through the grapevine that it might be, and I only said might be, the Drexl Spivey that was responsible for that restaurant breakin on Riverdale.
Are you still working security for Foster & Langley?
Yeah, and the restaurant's on my route. And you know, I stuck my nose in for the company to try to put a stop to some of these breakins. Now, while I have no proof, the name Drexl Spivey kept comin' up Who's case is it?
McTeague.
I don't know him. Is he a nice guy? You think he'll help me out?
I don't see why not. When you gonna come round and see my new place?
You and Robin moved?
Shit, are you behind. Me and Robin got a divorce six months ago. Got myself a new place  mirrors all over the bedroom, ceiling fans above the bed. Guy'd have to look as ugly as King Kong not to get laid in this place. I'm serious, a guy'd have to look like a gorilla.
Do you know who I am, Mr. Worley?
I give up. Who are you?
I'm the AntiChrist. You get me in a vendetta kind of mood, you will tell the angels in heaven that you had never seen pure evil so singularly personified as you did in the face of the man who killed you. My name is Vincenzo Coccotti. I work as a counsel for Mr. Blue Lou Boyle, the man your son stole from. I hear you were once a cop so I assume you've heard od us before. Am I correct?
I've heard of Blue Lou Boyle.
I'm glad. Hopefully that will clear up the howfullofshitIam question you've been asking yourself. Now, we're gonna have a little Q and A, and, at the risk of sounding redundant, please make your answers genuine. Want a Chesterfield?
No.
I have a son of my own. About you boy's age. I can imagine how painful this must be for you. But Clarence and that bitchwhore girlfriend of his brought this all on themselves. And I implore you not to go down the road with 'em. You can always take comfort in the fact that you never had a choice.
Look, I'd help ya if I could, but I haven't seen Clarence 
I've seen him.
Now I can't be sure of how much of what he told you. So in the chance you're in the dark about some of this, let me shed some light. That whore your boy hangs around with, her pimp is an associate of mine, and I don't just mean pimpin', in other affairs he works for me in a courier capacity. Well, apparently, that dirty little whore found out when we're gonna do some business, 'cause your son, the cowboy and his flame, came in the room blastin' and didn't stop till they were pretty sure everybody was dead.
What are you talkin' about?
I'm talkin' about a massacre. They snatched my narcotics and hightailed it outta there. Wouldda gotten away with it, but your son, fuckhead that he is, left his driver's license in a dead guy's hand. A whore hiding in the commode filled in all the blanks.
I don't believe you.
That's of minor importance. But what's of major fuckin' importance is that I believe you. Where did they go?
On their honeymoon.
I'm gettin' angry askin' the same question a second time. Where did they go?
They didn't tell me.
Could I have one of those Chesterfields now?
Sure.
Oh, don't bother. I got one. So you're a Sicilian, huh?
Uhhuh.
You know I read a lot. Especially things that have to do with history. I find that shit fascinating. In fact, I don't know if you know this or not, Sicilians were spawned by niggers.
Come again?
It's a fact. Sicilians have nigger blood pumpin' through their hearts. If you don't believe me, look it up. You see, hundreds and hundreds of years ago the Moors conquered Sicily. And Moors are niggers. Way back then, Sicilians were like the wops in northern Italy. Blond hair, blue eyes. But, once the Moors moved in there, they changed the whole country. They did so much fuckin' with the Sicilian women, they changed the bloodline for ever, from blond hair and blue eyes to black hair and dark skin. I find it absolutely amazing to think that to this day, hundreds of years later, Sicilians still carry that nigger gene. I'm just quotin' history. It's a fact. It's written. Your ancestors were niggers. Your great, great, great, great, greatgrandmother was fucked by a nigger, and had a halfnigger kid. That is a fact. Now tell me, am I lyin'?
I think there's a SevenUp in there.
Anything stronger? Oh, probably not. Beer? You can drink beer, can't you?
I can, but I don't.
That's about all I ever eat.
Go to the liquor store  Where is there a liquor store around here?
Uh, yeah... there's a party store down 54th.
Get a sixpack of something imported. It's hard to tell you what to get 'cause different places have different things. If they got Fosters, get that, if not, ask the guy at the thing what the strongest imported beer he has. Look, since you're making a beer run, would you mind too terribly if you did a foot run as well. I'm fuckin' starvin' to death. Are you hungry too?
I'm really not very 
You know what would taste good? Chicken. I haven't had chicken in a while. Chicken would really hit the spot about now. Chicken and beer, definitly, absolutely, without a doubt. Where's a good chicken place around here?
I really don't know.
You don't know the chicken places around where you live? Ask the guy at the place where a chicken place is.
Isn't she the sweetest goddamned girl you ever saw in your whole life? Is she a four alarm fire, or what?
She seems very nice.
Daddy. Nice isn't the word. Nice is an insult. She's a peach. That's the only word for it, she's a peach. She even tastes like a peach. You can tell I'm in love with her. You can tell by my face, can't ya? It's a dead giveaway. It's written all over it. Ya know what? She loves me back. Take a seat, Pop, we gotta talk 
Clarence, just shut up, you're giving me a headache! I can't believe how much like your mother you are. You're your fuckin' mother through and through. I haven't heard from ya in three years. Then ya show up all of a sudden at eight o'clock in the morning. You walk in like a goddamn bulldozer... don't get me wrong, I'm happy to see you... just slow it down. Now, when did you get married?
Daddy, I'm in big fuckin' trouble and I really need your help.
Look, I don't know this is pretty heavyduty, so if you wanna explode, feel free.
You're always making jokes. That's what you do, isn't it? Make jokes. Making jokes is the one thing you're good at, isn't it? But if you make a joke about this   I'm gonna go completely out of my fuckin' head!
What do you want from me?
What?
Stop acting like an infant. You're here because you want me to help you in some way. What do you need from me? You need money?
Do you still have friends on the force?
Yes, I still have friends on the force.
Could you find out if they know anythin'? I don't know they know shit about us. But I don't wanna think, I wanna know. You could find out for sure what's goin' on. Daddy?
What makes you think I could do that?
You were a cop.
What makes you think I would do that?
I'm your son.
You got it all worked out, don't you?
Look, goddamnit, I never asked you for a goddamn thing! I've tried to make your parental obligation as easy as possible. After Mom divorced you, did I ask you for anything? When I wouldn't see ya for six months to a year at a time, did you ever get your shit about it? No, it was always "OK", "No problem", "You're a busy guy, I understand". The whole time you were a drunk, did I ever point my finger at you and talk shit? No! Everybody else did. I never did. You see, I know that you're just a bad parent. You're not really very good at it. But I know you love me. I'm basically a pretty resourceful guy. If I didn't really need it I wouldn't ask. And if you say no, don't worry about it. I'm gone. No problems.
They have nothing. In fact, they think it's drug related.
Do tell. Why drug related?
Apparently, Drexl had a big toe stuck in shit like that.
No shit?
Yeah. Drexl had an association with a fella named Blue Lou Boyle. Name mean anything to you?
Nope.
If you don't hang around in this circle, no reason it should.
Who is he?
Gangster. Drug Dealer. Somebody you don't want on your ass. Look, Clarence, the more I hear about this Drexl fucker, the more I think you did the right thing. That guy wasn't just some wild flake.
That's what I've been tellin' ya. The guy was like a mad dog. So the cops aren't looking for me?
Naw, until they hear something better they'll assume Drexl and Blue Lou had a falling out. So, once you leave twon, I wouldn't worry about it.
Thanks a lot, Daddy. You really came through for me.
I got some money I can give you 
Keep it.
Well, son, I want you to know I hope everything works out with you and Alabama. I like her. I think you make a cute couple.
We do make a cute couple, don't we?
Yeah, well, just stay outta trouble. Remeber, you got a wife to think about. Quit fuckin' around. I love you son.
I don't know, Clarence, "Doctor Zhivago" is a pretty big movie.
The biggest. The biggest movie you've ever dealt with, Lee. We're talkin' a lot of film. A man'd have ta be an idiot not to be a little cautious about a movie like that. And Lee, you're no idiot.
But the bottom line is: I'm not Paramount. I have a select group of distributers I deal with. I buy their little movies. Accomplish what I wanna accomplish, end of story. Easy, businesslike, very little risk.
Now that's bullshit, Lee. Every time you buy one of those little movies it's a risk. I'm not sellin' you something that's gonna play two weeks, six weeks, then go straight to cable. This is "Doctor Zhivago". This'll be packin' 'em in for a year and a half. Two years! That's two years you don't have to work with anybody's movie but mine.
Well, then, what's the hurry? Is it true the rights to "Doctor Zhivago" are in arbitration?
I wanna be able to announce this deal at Cannes. If I had time for a courtship, Lee, I would. I'd take ya out, I'd hold your hand, I'd kiss you on the cheek at the door. But, I'm not in that position. I need to know if we're in bed together, or not. If you want my movie, Lee, you're just gonna have to come to terms with your Fear and Desire.
Well, I have to admit, walkin' through the door and seein' these "Soldier of Fortune" poster boys made me a bit nervous. But, Lee, I'm fairly confident that you came here to do business, not to be a wiseguy. So, if you want, I'll put the gun on the table.
I don't think that'll be necessary. Let's all have a seat. Boris, why don't you be nice and get coffee for everybody.
Oh, Mr. Donowitz 
Lee, Clarence . Please don't insult me. Call me Lee.
OK, sorry, Lee. I just wanna tell you "Coming Home in a Body Bag" is one of my favorite movies. After "Apocalypse Now" I think it's the best Vietnam movie ever.
Thank you very much, Clarence.
You know, most movies that win a lot of Oscars, I can't stand. "Sophie's Choice", "Ordinary People", "Kramer vs. Kramer", "Gandhi". All that stuff is safe, geriatric, coffeetable dog shit.
I hear you talkin' Clarence. We park our cars in the same garage.
Like that MerchantIvory claptrap. All those assholes make are unwatchable movies from unreadable books.
Now, that's practically uncut. You could, if you so desire, cut it a helluva lot more.
Don't worry, I'll desire. Boris, could I have some more coffee.
Me too, Boris.
You like a little coffee with your cream and sugar?
I'm not satisfied till the spoon stands straight up.
Where'd you go?
A Norms in Van Nuys.
Bastards. That's why I always eat at Lawreys.
Elliot tells me you're fronting for a dirty cop.
Well, Elliot wasn't supposed to tell you anythin'. Thanks a lot, bigmouth. I knew you were a squid the moment I laid eyes on you. In my book, buddy, you're a piece of shit. He's not a dirty cop, he's a good cop. He just saw his chance and he took it.
Why does he trust you?
We grew up together.
If you don't know shit, why does he think you can sell it?
I bullshitted him.
Wanna count your money?
Actually, they can count it. I'd like to use the little boy's room.
Yeah, I subscribe. It's a pretty decent one.
Have you read the story on Elvis?
No. Not yet.
You know, I saw it on the stands, my first inclination was to buy it. But, I look at the price and say forget it, it's just gonna be the same old shit. I ended up breaking down and buying it a few days later. Man, I was ever wrong.
That good, huh?
It tried to pin down what the attraction is after all these years. It covers the whole spectrum of fans, the people who love his music, the people who grew up with him, the artists he inspired  Bob Dylan, Bruce Springsteen, and the fanatics, like these guys. I don't know about you, but they give me the creeps.
I can see what you mean.
Like, look at her. She looks like she fell off an ugly tree and hit every branch on the way down. Elvis wouldn't fuck her with Pat Boone's dick.
So you guys got five hundred thousand dollars worth of cola that you're unloading 
Want an animal cracker?
Yeah, OK.
Leave the gorillas.
 that you're unloading for two hundred thousand dollars 
Unloading? That's a helluva way to describe the bargain of a lifetime.
I grow it on my windowsill. The lights really great there and I'm up high enough so you can't see it from the street.
Ha ha ha. No really, where does it come from?
Coco leaves. You see, they take the leaves and mash it down until it's kind of a paste 
Look, Dick, I don't 
No problem, Elliot. I'm just fuckin' wit ya, that's all. Actually, I'll tell you but you gotta keep it quiet. Understand, if Dick didn't assure me you're good people I'd just tell ya, none of your fuckin' business. But, as a sign of good faith, here it goes: I gotta friend in the department.
What department?
What do you think, eightball?
The police department?
Duh. What else would I be talking about? Now stop askin' stupid doorknob questions. Well, a year and a half ago, this friend of mine got access to the evidence room for an hour. He snagged this coke. But, he's a good cop with a wife and a kid, so he sat on it for a year and a half until he found a guy he could trust.
He trusts you?
We were in Four H together. We've known each other since childhood. So, I'm handling the sales part. He's my silent partner and he knows if I get fucked up, I won't drop dime on him. I didn't tell you nothin' and you didn't hear nothin'.
Sure. I didn't hear anything.
What?
Do I look like a beautiful blond with big tits and an ass that tastes like French vanilla icecream?
No. No, you don't.
Then why are you telling me all this bullshit just so you can fuck me?
Get it straight, Lee isn't into taking risks. He deals with a couple of guys, and he's been dealing with them for years. They're reliable. They're dependable. And, they're safe.
Riddle me this, Batman. If you're all so much in love with each other, what the fuck are you doing here? I'm sure you got better things to do with your time than walk around in circles starin' up a panther's ass. Your guy's interested because with that much shit at his fingertips he can play Joe fuckin' Hollywood till the wheels come off. He can sell it, he can snort it, he can play Santa Claus with it. At the price he's payin', he'll be everybody's best friend. And, you know, that's what we're talkin' about here. I'm not puttin' him down. Hey, let him run wild. Have a ball, it's his money. But, don't expect me to hang around forever waitin' for you guys to grow some guts.
He wants to talk ya.
Mr. Donowitz? I told you, through Dick. He's in my acting class. About a year. Yeah, he's good. They grew up together. Sure thing.
He says Wednesday at three o'clock at the Beverly Wilshire. He wants everybody there. He'll talk to you. If after talkin' to you he's convinced you're OK, he'll do business. If not, he'll say fuck it and walk out the door. He also wants a sample bag.
No problems on both counts.
Where's everybody else?
They'll be along.
Well, I guess it's about that time.
I guess so. Follow me.
Elliot.
Yeah?
Get on your knees.
Don't you?
No.
Don't lie to me, motherfucker. You apparently think I'm the dumbest motherfucker in the world! Don't you? Say: Clarence, you are without a doubt, the dumbest motherfucker in the whole wide world. Say it!
Say it, goddamn it!
You are the dumbest person in the world.
Apparently I'm not as dumb as you thought I am.
No. No you're not.
What's waiting for us up there. Tell me or I'll pump two right in your face.
I'd fuck Elvis.
Really?
When he was alive. I wouldn't fuck him now.
I don't blame you. So we'd both fuck Elvis. It's nice to meet people with common interests, isn't it?
Well, enough about the King, how 'bout you?
How 'bout me what?
How 'bout you go to the movies with me tonight?
What are we gonna see?
A Donny Chiba triple feature. "The Streetfighter", "Return of the Streetfighter", and "Sister Streetfighter".
Who's Sonny Chiba?
He is, bar none, the greatest actor working in martial arts movies ever.
You wanna take me to a kung fu movie?
Three kung fu movies.
Clarence?
You got it.
It's great to hear from you.
Well, you're gonna be seein' me shortly.
You comin' to L.A.? When?
Tomorrow.
What's up? Why're leavin' Detroit?
Well, there's a story behind all that. I'll tell you when I see you. By the way, I won't be alone. I'm bringing my wife with me.
Get the fuck outta here!
I'm a married man.
Get the fuck outta here!
Believe it or not, I actually tricked a girl into falling in love with me. I'm not quite sure how I did it. I'd hate to have to do it again. But I did it. Wanna say hi to my better half?
What?
Tell him we'll be hittin' his area some time tomorrow.
Alabama, could you tell Clar 
Ask him if he got the letter.
Clarence sent a letter?
Has he gotten his mail today?
Money problems?
Now tell him goodbye.
That's a pretty amazing story.
Well, she's a pretty amazing girl. What are women like out here?
Just like in Detroit, only skinnier.
You goin' out?
Well, for the past couple of years I've been goin' out with girls from my acting class.
Good for you.
What's so fuckin' good about it? Actresses are the most fuckedinthehead bunch of women in the world. It's like they gotta pass a test of emotional instability before they can get their SAG card. Oh, guess what? I had a really good reading for "T.J. Hooker" the other day.
... formica. I did real well. I think she liked me.
Did you meet Captain Kirk?
You don't meet him in the audition. That comes later. Hope, hope.
How much of that letter was on the up and up?
Every word of it.
You're really in love, aren't you?
For the very first time in my life. Do you know what that's like?
This shit can't be real.
It'll get ya high.
It's fuckin' real! It's fuckin' real!
I certainly hope so.
You've got a helluva lotta coke there, man!
I know.
Do you have any idea how much fuckin' coke you got?
Tell me.
I don't know! A fuckin' lot!
This is Drexl's coke?
Drexl's dead. This is Clarence's coke and Clarence can do whatever he wants with it. And what Clarence wants to do is sell it. Then me and Bama are gonna leave on a jet plane and spend the rest of our lives spendin'. So, you got my letter, have you lined up any buyers?
Look, Clarence, I'm not Joe Cocaine.
But you're an actor. I hear these Hollywood guys have it delivered to the set.
Yeah, they do. And maybe when I start being a successful actor I'll know those guys. But most of the people I know are like me. They ain't got a pot to piss in or a window to throw it out of. Now, if you want to sell a little bit at a time 
No way! The whole enchilada in one shot.
Do you have any idea how difficult that's gonna be?
I'm offering a half a million dollars worth of white for two hundred thousand. How difficult can that be?
It's difficult because you're sellin' it to a particular group. Big shots. Fat cats. Guys who can use that kind of quantity. Guys who can afford two hundred thousand. Basically, guys I don't know. You don't know. And, more important, they don't know you. I did talk with one guy who could possibly help you.
Is he big league?
He's nothing. He's in my acting class. But he works as an assistant to a very powerful movie producer named Lee Donowitz. I thought Donowitz could be interested in a deal like this. He could use it. He could afford it.
What'd'ya tell 'em?
Hardly anything. I wasn't sure from your letter what was bullshit, and what wasn't.
What's this acting class guy's name?
Elliot.
Elliot what?
Elliot Blitzer.
OK, call 'im up and arrange a meeting, so we can get through all the getting to know you stuff.
Where?
The zoo.
The zoo. What are you waiting for?
Would you just shut up a minute and let me think?
What's to think about?
Shut up! First you come waltzing into my life after two years. You're married. You killed a guy.
Two guys.
Two guys. Now you want me to help you with some big drug deal. Fuck, Clarence, you killed somebody and you're blowin' it off like it don't mean shit.
Don't expect me to be all broken up over poor Drexl. I think he was a fuckin', freeloadin', parasitic scumbag, and he got exactly what he deserved. I got no pity for a mad dog like that. I think I should get a merit badge or somethin'.
Clarence...
Let me handle this.
Yeah, well if we got lost, it's your ass. Come on, Clarence, lets go. Elliot's going to meet us in the lobby.
I'm just makin' sure we got everything. You got yours?
I got the part on "T.J. Hooker".
No shit? Dick, that's great!
They didn't even want a callback. They just hired me like that. Me and Peter Breck are the two heavies. We start shooting Monday. My call is for seven o'clock in the morning.
Ah, Dick, let's talk about it in the car. We can't be late.
Clarence.
Yeah?
Um, nothing, let's go?
What the fuck did you bring that for.
In case.
In case of what?
In case they try to kill us. I don't know, what do you want me to say?
Look, Dillinger, Lee Donowitz is not a pimp 
I know that Richard. I don't think I'll need it. But something this last week has taught me, it's better to have a gun and not to need it than to need a gun and not to have it.
Do you really mean it?
No, I don't really mean it. Well, I mean, this is our last chance to think about it. How 'bout you, Bama?
Now's a helluva time to play "what if".
This is our last chance to play "what if". I want to do it. I'm just scared of getting caught.
Well, if we're not gonna do it, let's just get in the car and get the fuck outta here.
Yeah, let's just get outta here.
No. But thanks.
No thanks, my stomach's a little upset. I ate somethin' at a restaurant that made me a little sick.
Where the fuck is that bitch?
She's with me.
Who the fuck are you?
I'm her husband.
Well. That makes us practically related. Bring your ass on in.
Grab a seat there, boy. Want some dinner? Grab yourself an egg roll. We got everything here from a diddleeyedJoe to a damnedifIknow.
No thanks.
No thanks? What does that mean? Means you ate before you came down here? All full. Is that it? Naw, I don't think so. I think you're too scared to be eatin'. Now, see we're sittin' down here, ready to negotiate, and you've already given up your shit. I'm still a mystery to you. But I know exactly where your ass is comin' from. See, if I asked you if you wanted some dinner and you grabbed an egg roll and started to chow down, I'd say to myself, "This motherfucker's carryin' on like he ain't got a care in the world. Who know? Maybe he don't. Maybe this fool's such a bad motherfucker, he don't got to worry about nothin', he just sit down, eat my Chinese, watch my TV." See? You ain't even sat down yet. On that TV there, since you been in the room, is a woman with her titties hangin' out, and you ain't even bothered to look. You just been starin' at me. Now, I know I'm pretty, but I ain't as pretty as a couple of titties.
Wannabee nigger...
Fuck you! My mother was Apache.
What?
Can you live with it?
Live with what?
With that sonofabitch walkin' around breathin' the same air as you? And gettin' away with it every day. Are you haunted?
Yeah.
You wanna get unhaunted?
Yeah.
Then shoot 'em. Shoot 'em in the face. And feed that boy to the dogs.
I can't believe what you're tellin' me.
I ain't tellin' ya nothin'. I'm just sayin' what I'd do.
You'd really do that?
He don't got no right to live.
Look, Elvis, he is hauntin' me. He doesn't deserve to live. And I do want to kill him. But I don't wanna go to jail for the rest of my life.
I don't blame you.
If I thought I could get away with it 
Killin' 'em's the hard part. Gettin' away with it's the easy part. Whaddaya think the cops do when a pimp's killed? Burn the midnight oil tryin' to find who done it? They couldn't give a flyin' fuck if all the pimps in the whole wide world took two in the back of the fuckin' head. If you don't get caught at the scene with the smokin' gun in your hand, you got away with it.
Clarence, I gotta hand it to ya. You were cooler than cool.
I was dying. I thought for sure everyone could see it on my face.
All anybody saw was Clint Eastwood drinkin' coffee.
Can you develop an ulcer in two minutes? Being cool is hard on your body.
Oh, and your line to Charles Atlas in there: "I'll take that gun", "You'll have to".
That was cool, wasn't it? You know, I don't even know where that came from. I just opened my mouth and it came out. After I said it I thought, that's a cool line, I gotta remember that.
How do you think I'm doin' with Lee?
Are you kiddin'? He loves you.
You don't think I'm kissin' his ass, do you?
You're tellin' him what he wants to hear, but that ain't the same thing as kissin' his ass.
I'm not lyin' to him. I mean it. I loved "Coming Home in a Body Bag".
That's why it doesn't come across as asskissin', because it's genuine, and he can see that.
Hold on a second, Big D. You sayin' you eat pussy?
Nigger, I eat everything. I eat pussy. I eat the butt. I eat every motherfuckin' thang.
Go on pussyeaters... laugh. You look like you be eatin' pussy. You got pussyeatin' mugs. Now if a nigger wants to get his dick sucked he's got to do a bunch of fuckedup shit.
So you do eat pussy!
Naw naw!
You don't like it, but you eat that shit. He eats it.
Ain't no man have to eat pussy!
Take that shit somewhere else.
What the fuck are you talkin' about?
Floyd say he don't be eatin' pussy.
Shit, any nigger say he don't eat pussy is lyin' his ass off.
I heard that.
Shit! Nigger you smoke enough sherm your dumb ass'll do a lot a crazy ass things. So you won't eat pussy? Motherfucker, you be up there suckin' niggers' dicks.
Heard that.
Damn skippy. He like it, too.
Me thinketh he doth protest too much.
Nigger, get real. You touch Jayne Kennedy she'll have you ass in Wayne County so fast 
Nigger, back off, you ain't beatin' shit. Now what would you do.
I'm hip.
In fact, I'm gonna show you what I mean with a little demonstration. Big D, toss me that shotgun.
I'm pretty hungry. When I went to the store I was gonna get some DingDongs.
Well, fuck that shit, we'll get some real food. What would taste good. What do you think would taste good?
This should cover it, AuggieDoggie.
Okeedokee, DoggieDaddy.
The forager's back.
Thank God. I could eat a horse if you slap enough catsup on it.
I didn't get any chicken.
How come?
It's nine o'clock in the morning. Nothing's open.
Bye, Daddy! Hope to see you again real soon.
What kind of daughterly smackeroo was that?
Oh, hush up.
Tell him we gotta go.
Clarence says we gotta be hittin' it.
Tell him not to eat anything. We're gonna scarf when we get there.
Don't eat anything.
The letter I sent.
The letter he sent.
Has he looked through it yet?
Ya looked through it?
Tell him to look through it.
Get it.
No time. Gotta go. Just tell him to read the letter, the letter explains all. Tell him I love him. And tell him, as of tomorrow, all his money problems are over.
He can't. We gotta go, but he wants you to read the letter. The letter explains it all. He wants you to know he loves you. And he wants you to know that as of tomorrow, all of your money problems are over.
Byebye.
Now hang up.
... when my mom went into labor, my dad panicked. He never had a kid before, and crashed the car. Now, picture this: their car's demolished, crowd is starting to gather, my mom is yelling, going into contractions, and my dad, who was losing it before, is now completely screaming yellow zonkers. Then, out of nowhere, as if from thin air, this big giant bus appears, and the busdriver says, "Get her in here.". He forgot all about his route and just drove straight to the hospital. So, because he was such a nice guy, they wanted to name the baby after him, as a sign of gratitude. Well, his name was Waldo, and no matter how grateful they were, even if I'da been a boy, they would't call me Waldo. So they asked Waldo where he was from. And, so there you go.
And here we are.
Oh, look what happened. Oh god, I'm so sorry. Are you OK?
Yeah. I'm fine. It didn't hurt.
I'm the clumsiest person in the world.
It's OK. Don't worry about it. Accidents happen.
What a wonderful philosophy. Thanks for being such a sweetheart. You could have been a real dick.
Not at all. I, this guy here, he's Sonny Chiba.
The oriental.
The oriental in black. He's an assasin. Now, at the beginning he was hired to kill this guy the cops had. So he got himself arrested. They take him into the police station. And he starts kickin' all the cops' asses. Now, while keepin' them at bay, he finds the guy he was supposed to kill. Does a number on him. Kicks the cops' asses some more. Kicks the bars out of the window. And jumps out into a getaway car that was waiting for him.
Want some Goobers?
Thanks a lot.
I thought Sonny was the good guy.
He ain't so much good guy as he's just a bad motherfucker. Sonny don't be bullshittin'. He fucks dudes up for life. Hold on, a fight scene's coming up.
Great movie. Actionpacked!
Does Sonny kick ass or does Sonny kick ass?
Sonny kicks ass.
You shoulda saw the first original uncut version of the "Streetfighter". It was the only movie up to that time rated X for violence. But we just saw the R.
If that was the R, I'd love to see the X.
My name is Clarence, and what is yours?
Alabama Whitman. Pleased to meet ya.
Is that your real name? Really?
That's my real name, really. I got proof. See.
Where's your car? I'll walk you to it.
I took a cab.
You took a cab to see three kung fu movies?
Sure. Why not?
Nothing. It's just you're a girl after my own heart.
What time is it?
'Bout twelve.
I suppose you gotta get up early, huh?
No. Not particularly. How come?
Well, it's just when I see a really good movie I really like to go out and get some pie, and talk about it. It's sort of tradition. Do you like to eat pie after you've seen a good movie?
I love to get pie after a movie.
Would you like to get some pie?
I'd love some pie.
Well, enough about the King. How about you?
How 'bout me what?
Tell me about yourself.
There's nothing to tell.
C'mon. What're ya tryin' to be? The Phantom Lady?
What do you want to know?
Well, for starters, what do you do? Where're ya from? What's your favorite color? Who's your favorite movie star? What kinda music do you like? What are your turnons and turnoffs? Do you have a fella? What's the story behind you takin' a cab to the most dangerous part of town alone? And, in a theater full of empty seats, why did you sit by me?
Ask me them again. One by one.
What do you do?
I don't remember.
Where are you from.
Might be from Tallahassee. But I'm not sure yet.
What's your favorite color?
I don't remember. But off the top of my head, I'd say black.
What's your favorite movie star?
Burt Reynolds.
Would you like a bite of my pie?
Yes, I would.
Like it?
Very much. Now, where were we?
What kinda music do you like?
Phil Spector. Girl group stuff. You know, like "He's a Rebel".
What are your turnons?
Mickey Rourke, somebody who can appreciate the finer things in life, like Elvis's voice, good kung fu, and a tasty piece of pie.
Turnoffs?
I'm sure there must be something, but I don't really remember. The only thing that comes to mind are Persians.
Do you have a fella?
I'm not sure yet. Ask me again later.
What's the story behind you takin' a cab to the most dangerous part of town alone?
Apparently, I was hit on the head with something really heavy, giving me a form of amnesia. When I came to, I didn't know who I was, where I was, or where I came from. Luckily, I had my driver's license or I wouldn't even know my name. I hoped it would tell me where I lived but it had a Tallahassee address on it, and I stopped somebody on the street and they told me I was in Detroit. So that was no help. But I did have some money on me, so I hopped in a cab until I saw somethin' that looked familiar. For some reason, and don't ask me why, that theater looked familiar. So I told him to stop and I got out.
And in a theater full of empty seats, why did you sit by me?
Because you looked like a nice guy, and I was a little scared. And I sure couldda used a nice guy about that time, so I spilled my popcorn on you.
Wow. What a swell place to work.
Yeah, I got the key, so I come here at night, hang out, read comic books, play music.
How long have you worked here?
Almost four years.
That's a long time.
I'm hip. But you know, I'm comfortable here. It's easy work. I know what I'm doing. Everybody who works here is my buddy. I'm friendly with most of the customers. I just hang around and talk about comic books all day.
Do you get paid a lot?
That's where trouble comes into paradise. But the boss let's you borrow some money if you need it. Wanna see what "Spiderman" number one looks like?
You bet. How much is that worth?
Four hundred bucks.
I didn't even know they had stores that just sold comic books.
Well, we sell other things too. Cool stuff. "Man from U.N.C.L.E." Lunch boxes. "Green Hornet" board games. Shit like that. But comic books are main business. There's a lot of collectors around here.
What's that?
That's a "Rookies" doll. George Sanford Brown. We gotta lotta dolls. They're real cool. Did you know they came out with dolls for all the actors in "The Black Hole"? I always found it funny somewhere there's a kid playin' with a little figure of Earnest Borgnine.
God, Spiderman looks different.
He was just born, remember? This is the first one. You know that guy, Dr. Gene Scott? He said that the story of Spiderman is the story of Christ, just disguised. Well, I thought about that even before I heard him say it. Hold on, let me show you my favorite comic book cover of all time.
Oooooh, you look so cute in your little cowboy outfit. How old were you then?
Five.
Oh, you look so cute as little Elvis.
I finally knew what I wanted when I grew up.
You know when you sat behind me?
At the movies?
Uhhuh, I was tryin' to think of somethin' to say to you, then I thought, she doesn't want me bothering her.
What would make you think that?
I dunno. I guess I'm just stupid.
You're not stupid. Just wrong.
I love Janis.
You know, a lot of people have misconceptions of how she died.
She OD'd, didn't she?
Yeah, she OD'd. But wasn't on her last legs or anythin'. She didn't take too much. It shouldn't have killed her. There was somethin' wrong with what she took.
You mean she got a bad batch?
That's what happened. In fact, when she died, it was considered to be the happiest time of her life. She'd been fucked over so much by men she didn't trust them. She was havin' this relationship with this guy and he asked her to marry him. Now, other people had asked to marry her before, but she couldn't be sure whether they really loved her or were just after her money. So, she said no. And the guy says, "Look, I really love you, and I wanna prove it. So have your lawyers draw up a paper that says no matter what happens, I can never get any of your money, and I'll sign it." So she did, and he asked her, and she said yes. And once they were engaged he told her a secret about himself that she never knew: he was a millionaire.
So he really loved her?
Uhhuh.
What's wrong, sweetheart? Did I do something? What did I do?
You didn't do nothing.
Did you hurt yourself? Whatd'ya do? Step on a thumbtack?
Clarence, I've got something to tell you. I didn't just happen to be at the theater. I was paid to be there.
What are you, a theater checker? You check up on the box office girls. Make sure they're not rippin' the place off.
I'm not a theater checker. I'm a call girl.
You're a whore?
I'm a call girl. There's a difference, ya know. I don't know. Maybe there's not. That place you took me to last night, that comic book place.
"Heroes For Sale"?
Yeah, that one. Somebody who works there arranged to have me meet you.
Who?
I don't know. I didn't talk with them. The plan was for me to bump into you, pick you up, spend the night, and skip out after you fell asleep. I was gonna write you a note and say that this was my last day in America. That I was leaving on a plane this morning up to Ukraine to marry a rich millionaire, and thank you for making my last day in America my best day.
That dazzling imagination.
It's over on the TV. All it says is: "Dear Clarence." I couldn't write anymore. I didn't not want to ever see you again. In fact, it's stupid not to ever see you again. Las night... I don't know... I felt... I hadn't had that much fun since Girl Scouts. So I just said, "Alabama, come clean, Let him know what's what, and if he tells you to go fuck yourself then go back to Drexl and fuck yourself."
Who and what is a Drexl?
My pimp.
You have a pimp?
Uhhuh.
A real live pimp?
Uhhuh.
Is he black?
He thinks he is. He says his mother was Apache, but I suspect he's lying.
Is he nice?
Well, I wouldn't go so far as to call him nice, but he's treated me pretty decent. But I've only been there about four days. He got a little rough with Arlene the other day.
What did he do to Arlene?
Slapped her around a little. Punched her in the stomch. It was pretty scary.
This motherfucker sounds charming!
Goddamn it, Alabama, you gotta get the fuck outta there! How much longer before he's slappin' you around? Punchin' you in the stomach? How the fuck did you get hooked up with a douchebag like this in the first place?
At the bus station. He said I'd be a perfect call girl. And that he knew an agency in California that, on his recommendation, would handle me. They have a very exclusive clientele: movie stars, big businessmen, total whitecollar. And all the girls in the agency get a grand a night. At least five hundred. They drive Porsches, live in condos, have stockbrokers, carry beepers, you know, like Nancy Allen in "Dressed to Kill". And when I was ready he'd call 'em, give me a plane ticket, and send me on my way. He says he makes a nice finder's fee for finding them hot prospects. But no one's gonna pay a grand a night for a girl who doesn't know whether to shit or wind her watch. So what I'm doin' for Drexl now is just sorta learnin' the ropes. It seemed like a lotta fun, but I don't really like it much, till last night. You were only my third trick, but you didn't feel like a trick. Since it was a secret, I just pretended I was on a date. An, um, I guess I want a second date.
Thank you. I wanna see you again too. And again, and again, and again. Bama, I know we haven't known each other long, but my parents went together all throughout high school, and they still got a divorce. So, fuck it, you wanna marry me?
What?
Will you be my wife?
Yes.
You will?
You better not be fucking teasing me.
You better not be fuckin' teasin' me.
Did ya ever see "The Chinese Professionals"?
I don't believe so.
Well, that's the one that explains how Jimmy Wang Yu became the Incredible OneArmed Boxer.
I do.
Thank you.
Hello, Mrs. Worley.
How do you do, Mr. Worley?
Top o' the morning, Mrs. Worley.
Bottom of the ninth . Mr. Worley. Oh, by the by, Mr. Worley, have you seen your lovely wife today?
Oh, you're speaking of my charming wife Mrs. Alabama Worley.
Of course. Are there others, Mr. Worley?
No no no no no no no no no...
Yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes...
Where you goin', honey?
I just gotta get somethin'.
Sweetheart, write down your former address.
What?
Write down Drexl's address.
Why?
So I can go over there and pick up your things.
No, Clarence. Just forget it, babe. I just wanna disappear from there.
Look, sweetheart, he scares you. But I'm not scared of that motherfucker. He can't touch you now. You're completely out of his reach. He poses absolutely no threat to us. So, if he doesn't matter, which he doesn't, it would be stupid to lose your things, now wouldn't it?
You don't know him 
You don't know me. Not when it comes to shit like this. I have to do this. I need for you to know you can count on me to protect you. Now write down the address.
Was it him or you?
Yeah. But to be honest, I put myself in that position. When I drove up there I said to myself, "If I can kill 'em and get away with it, I'll do it." I could. So I did.
Is this a joke?
No joke. This is probably the best hamburger I've ever had. I'm serious, I've never had a hamburger taste this good.
I think what you did was...
What?
I think what you did...
What?
... was so romantic.
Do you want some wine, sweetheart?
Nope. I'm not really a wine gal.
You did it, Quickdraw. I'm so proud of you. You were like a ninja. Did I do my part OK?
Babalouey, you were perfect, I could hardly keep from busting up.
I felt so stupid just blowing those bubbles.
You were chillin', kind of creepy even. You totally fucked with his head. I'm gonna go grab dinner.
I'm gonna hop in the tub and get all wet, and slippery, and soapy. Then I'm gonna lie in the waterbed, not even both to dry off, and watch Xrated movies till you get your ass back to my lovin' arms.
Ya know, I used to fuckin' hate airports.
Really?
With a vengeance, I hated them.
How come?
I used to live by one back in Dearborn. It's real frustratin' to be surrounded by airplanes when you ain't got shit. I hated where I was, but I couldn't do anythin' about it. I didn't have enough money. It was tough enough just tryin' to pay my rent every month, an' here I was livin' next to an airport. Whenever I went outside, I saw fuckin' planes take off drownin' out my show. All day long I'm seein', hearin' people doin' what I wanted to do most, but couldn't.
What?
Leavin' Detroit. Goin' off on vacations, startin' new lives, business trips. Fun, fun, fun, fun.
But knowin' me and you gonna be niggerrich gives me a whole new outlook. I love airports now. Me 'n' you can get on any one of those planes out there, and go anywhere we ant.
You ain't kiddin', we got lives to start over, we should go somewhere where we can really start from scatch.
I been in America all my life. I'm due for a change. I wanna see what TV in other countries is like. Besides, it's more dramatic. Where should we fly off to, my little turtledove?
Cancoon.
Why Cancoon?
It's got a nice ring to it. It sounds like a movie. "Clarence and Alabama Go to Cancoon". Don't 'cha think?
But in my movie, baby, you get the top billing.
I thought it was what you wanted, Clarence.
It is what I want. But I don't want to spend the next ten years in jail. I don't want you guys to go to jail. We don't know what could be waiting for us up there. It'll probably be just what it's supposed to be. The only thing that's waiting for us is two hundred thousand dollars. I'm just looking at the downside.
It's been fun thinking about the money but I can walk away from it, honey.
That rhymes.
Hi, Dick. I'm Alabama Worley.
Hello, Alabama.
I can't wait to meet you. Clarence told me all about you. He said you were his best friend. So, I guess that makes you my best friend, too.
He said don't go nowhere. We'll be there some time tomorrow.
Wait a minute 
Did you get the letter?
What letter?
What letter?
Gotten your mail yet?
Yeah, my roommate leaves it on the TV.
Yes.
Not yet.
Nope.
Let me speak to Clarence.
He wants to speak with you.
You're gonna be on "T.J. Hooker"?
Knock wood.
That was so good I am gonna have another.
You can't have just one.
Holy Mary, Mother of God.
This is great, we got cable.
You got that playing basketball?
Yeah. I got elbowed right in the eye. And if that wasn't enough, I got hurled the ball when I'm not looking. Wam! Right in my face.
It's a good thing you pay me well.
Do you realize that there are surveillance teams watching this place right now? Your phones are almost certainly tapped. And you are busy laughing and flirting like a whore with this Renquist, who may be a
No. He checked out okay
What do you want me to do?
Find out who this Renquist it.
How?
Use the gifts that Allah has given you.
Who is this woman?
His wife.
His wife? Good. Bring them.
Hello?
Helen? It's Simon. Is it safe to talk?
Yes. Go ahead.
Yes. I suppose so. Where?
The same place. One o'clock. I have to go now. See you tomorrow. Remember, I need you.
Are you sure you weren't followed?
I kept looking back, like you taught me. I didn't see anyone.
Okay. It's just, things are a bit hot for me right now. If I get a signal... I may have to leave suddenly.
I understand.
It's my job to risk my life, but not yours. I feel bad about bringing you into this, but you're the only one I can trust.
Where were you? On a... uh, * mission?
Ssshhh! We say Op. Covert * operation. And this one got a little rough.
Worse than Cairo? *
Cairo was a day at the beach next * to this.
Did you read the papers yesterday?
Yes.
Sometimes a story is a mask for a covert operation. See two men killed in a restroom, and two unidentified men in a running * shootout, ending at the * Marriot...
That was you?!
You recognized my style. See, you're very good. You're a natural at this.
Tell me what happened?
I'm sorry, I can't.
You can trust me completely.
I know. But it would compromise your safety too much to know certain things.
Right, of course. I was worried when I didn't hear from you that night.
It's strange. I knew I was in a woman's thoughts when I was shooting it out with those assassins.
Were they trying to kill you? *
Three of them. Hardly worth * talking about. Two won't bother * me again.
And you chased one?
Something came over me, I just had nail him, no matter what the * risk. It was pretty hairy. I thought he had me, a couple of * times. But I really can't take credit . . .
What is it you want me to do?
Not here. I'll call you and we'll rendezvous again. We have to leave separately, so we aren't seen together. For your safety.
You'll call me then?
Yes. Now go.
What's happened?
It's serious. That's all I can * say. Just meet on K Street under * the Key Bridge. At eight sharp. *
To our assignment.
What is it you need me to do?
Helen, I want you to be my wife.
I'm married!
Just for the operation in Paris. I need to be married. They'll be looking for a man traveling alone.
We're going to Paris?
Helen, there's a double agent in my outfit... I don't know who. There's no one I can trust. Except you. Can you get away? Just for two days.
I don't know. I have to think...
Here. Sit down. Be comfortable.
You see what I mean? That reaction would give us away in a second. Try to relax.
It's just that... it's been sixteen years since anyone but Harry did that, I
Relax. There, that's better. Let yourself slip into the role.
Thank you. You saved my life. What's your name?
Helen.
You can call me Simon. You're very brave to do this... You opened it.
I just glances inside.
Who's your little friend?
I'm Helen Tasker. Harry's my husband. And you are?
So now it's Tasker? Not Renquist?
Look, Harry's not part of this. He's just a sales rep.
No, my dear, he is a federal agent. He killed two of my colleagues the other night.
No, you don't understand, we've been married for 15 years
What's going on, Harry?
Samir is just going to ask Harry a few questions. See, we're not even sure which agency Harry works for. Now, Samir is absolutely first class, but on the other hand we have Harry, here, who has managed to lie convincingly to the woman he loves for 15 years. So it will be interesting to see how long he can resist.
Now just keep your knees together, and you'll be fine.
Something you obviously have a hard time doing!
Hold that thought.
Like one?
Fuck you.
I said SIT DOWN. Who do you work for?
Kettleman, Barnes and McGrath. I'm a legal secretary.
Of course. Mrs. Tasker. And what were you going with the international terrorist, Carlos the Jackal? Taking dictation?
He said he was an American agent.
What?
Get going!
Uh... well, okay then. You sound terrible. I'll run out right now. Just call the prescription in to the pharmacy. Sure, no problem. Bye.
Boris and Doris?
Go ahead.
What're we talking about here? Pussy, right?
Absolutely.
Let's face it, Harry, the Vette gets 'em wet. But it's not enough. If you want to really close escrow, you gotta have an angle.
And you've got one.
It's killer. Look at me I'm not that much to look at. No really. I can be honest. But I got 'em lining up, and not just skanks, either. Some are.
So what's your angle?
Sorry. Trade secret.
Sure. Set me up and then don't tell me.
Okay, just ask yourself. What do women really want? You take these bored housewives, married to the same guy for years. Stuck in a rut. They need some release. The promise of adventure. A hint of danger. I create that for them.
So you're basically lying your ass off the whole time? I couldn't do it.
Well, think of it as playing a role. It's fantasy. You have to work on their dreams. Get them out of their daily suburban grind for a few hours.
Isn't that hard to keep up, in the long run?
Doesn't matter. I like change. You know, constant turnover. As soon as I close the deal, it's one of two more times, then adios.
Use 'em and lose 'em.
Exactly. The trick is, you gotta pick your target. They have to be nice little housewife types. Schoolteachers. But, I'm telling you, you get their pilot lit, these babes, they can suck start a leafblower.
What about the husbands?
Dickless. If they took care of * business, I'd be out of business, know what I mean?
Those idiots.
You working on someone right now?
I always have a couple on the hook. You know. There's one right now, I've got her panting like a dog. It's great.
What does she do?
Some kinda legal secretary of something. Married to some boring jerk.
But with you, she gets to be hot, right?
Red hot. Her thighs steam.
Sooooo... she's pretty good in bed, then?
Hey, slow down you're gonna miss the turn!
See. You and this car were meant for each other. Why fight it? Sure, I have a couple other buyers lined up, but I like your style. Whattya say? Should we start on the paperwork?
Let me think about it. Hold it a day for me?
Yeeaoowww!!
You son of a bitch. Did you really think you could elude us forever, Carlos?
Wait! You got the wrong guy. My name's Simon. Look, just let me go. There's no need to kill me. I haven't seen your
Beat it.
No. Soon as I turn you'll shoot me.
Hi, honey. How was the flight?
Fine, honey. Stay asleep.
Okay.
I'm late.
Me too.
How'd it go at the trade show? You make all the other salesmen jealous?
Yeah. You should have seen it. We were the hit of the show with the new model ordering system, the one for the 680... how you can write up an order and the second the customer's name goes into the computer, it starts checking their credit, and if they've ordered anything in the past, and if they get a discount...
That's fabulous Harry.
Yeah, it was wild.
Uh huh. Okay.
It's not okay. It's extortion.
What did you tell him?
I slept with him and he knocked off a hundred bucks.
Good thinking, honey.
I need you to talk to Dana. The vice principle called and she cut class again this afternoon.
I'll handle it.
Hi honey. What's going on? *
Sorry to bother you in a meeting, but you have to promise me that * you'll be home at eight. I don't * want Dana and I sitting here by ourselves like we were last year. You promise?
Baby, I said I'd be there. Really. Trust me. Gotta go, honey. Bye bye.
Look, I know you're upset. I'm really sorry, honey. I raced home as quick
It's okay, don't bother, Harry.
I'm sorry. Thank you for the party.
Yeah. It was great.
Come on to bed, you don't have to brush your teeth.
I'll just be a second. So what happened tonight at the office?
I couldn't believe it. I go back to get this report I need, right, and the phone is ringing, so like a bonehead I answer it
It's the big client in Japan, and it's the middle of the morning there and their whole system is crashed... this guy's having a meltdown
What'd you do, honey?
Well I pull out the manual on their setup, which is the new 680 server...
...and I'm troubleshooting it with them over the phone... talking to a translator, right, who's getting half of it wrong... it was unbelievable... really wild.
It sounds wild. So now you're a big hero, right? For fixing their system.
Uh huh.
My husband the hero.
I was in the area, and I thought you might like to have lunch.
They must've just missed me.
They said you had to run out.
Yeah. It was a rush thing. They needed some documents down at the court house. I barely made it.
So, a little excitement in an otherwise dull day. Did is work out okay?
Oh, sure. Fine. I'll get some more gravy.
I thought we might have lunch tomorrow.
I can't, honey. I promised Allison I'd go shopping with her. Sorry.
How long have you been a member of his faction?
I don't know anything about a faction. I just met Simon... or whatever his name is... a couple of weeks ago. I barely know him.
What did happen?
Three days later, he called me. He told me to meet him at Overlook Park.
Why did you continue to see him?
He needed my help.
Not because you were attracted to him?
No.
You weren't attracted to him at all?
Well, maybe a little.
Tell me about your husband, Mrs Tasker.
Harry? What can I say about Harry? He's a sales rep for a computer company.
Would you say he was boring, then?
Yeah. I suppose he is.
That's none of your goddamn business! What kind of questions are these?
You're in a lot of trouble, Mrs. Tasker, so I suggest you cooperate. If we want to know the most intimate details of your life, you'd better tell us.
Let me handle this part. Do you mind? Why did you go to Carlos' hideout?
He wanted me to go with him on a mission, to pose as him wife.
And you agreed?
Yes.
Why?
I don't know. I guess I needed something...
What did you need?
I needed to feel alive. I wanted to do something... outrageous. And... I don't know... it felt good to be needed. To be trusted. To be special.
This Simon. Did you sleep with him?
No.
Let me out of her! Right now!
Answer the question
What?
Do you still love your husband?
Yes.
Louder please.
I love him. I have always loved him and I will always love him. Can I go home, please?
Oh, gee thanks. Mmmm, let me see
Yes or no.
What do you think? Of course yes! What's involved?
You will be contacted with the assignment.
My husband can't know about this.
No one must know! Especially him. You must appear to live your life normally, conveying nothing. The security of this nation depends on it. Can you do that?
I think so.
Think carefully. You will be lying to the man you love. The person who trusts you the most.
I can do it!
The code name of your contact will be Boris. Your code name will be
Natasha?
No. Doris.
So last night was pretty exciting, huh?
What? Oh, the flat tire? Yeah, I thought the damn towtruck was never going to get there.
Allison is sick in bed. I have to go over there, honey.
Sure, hon.
Now slide the nylons off one by one.
I'm not wearing any.
He's got nothing to do with this. It's me you want, right?
Let the hooker go. She's not important.
Harry, be quiet. Let me handle this.
What were you doing there?
You wouldn't believe me.
Harry, what's the matter with you? Tell them the truth. We're married, we have a daughter
I don't know what this crazy bitch is on. You should just cut her loose, so we can get down to business.
Oh yeah? Oh yeah? Then where did I get this?
I'm sorry, honey.
Don't call me honey! You don't ever get to call me honey again. You understand?! You pig!
What did he give you?
Sodium amytal, maybe some other truth agent.
It makes you tell the truth?
Yes.
Is it working yet?
Ask me a question I would normally lie to.
Are we going to die?
Yup. *
17 years.
My God. Have you had to... have sex with other women in the line of duty?
I don't take those assignments.
What about Juno?
She's really a fox, isn't she?
Did you pork her Harry?
No. But I wanted to.
Are you a total lying, scumsucking pig Harry?
Looks that way.
What is it?
God, you have great legs.
Harry... snap out of it!
Tell me something before this stuff wears off and you start lying again.
What?
Do you still love me?
Yes.
As much as you used to?
No. Much more.
If we're on an island, why are they using trucks?
We must be in the Florida Keys . * . . the Overseas Highway * connects the islands to the mainland.
What are you going to do?
Go down there and kill everybody, I guess.
Oh shit.
Wait here. If you have to use this, use it. Don't choke. Okay?
... you should have seen your father, standing there all covered with spaghetti sauce. He looked like such a dope.
I told the guy I told the guy, this isn't even my order.
Not yet. But we'll find him.
Dance?
This is Persian, if I'm not mistaken.
Very good. It's sixth century B.C. Do you like the period?
I adore it.
Call me, if you'd like to see some of my other pieces.
I'd like that.
Well, what's the point of waiting?
I agree.
So your clients want something for the lobby of their new corporate headquarters?
That's right. They want something... dramatic. I spoke to a number of people who said you're the one to see.
Let's see... that you can read ancient Sanskrit without having to sound out the words. And that other dealers and archeologists don't like you much.
Those wimps. It's because I use * my diplomatic contacts to export cultural treasures from countries which tell them to take a hike. I told you to move those crates an hour ago. Come on guys, let's get going.
Do you like my tomb? The museum * financing fell out, so I thought * your clients might be interested.
It's certainly... dramatic.
Especially in this light. This is the only light they had then, * so I like to study it this way. I love this place. I love all ruins.
Is that why you got into this business?
I've always been a collector at heart. When I see something I want, I have to have it.
And you have a reputation as someone who gets what she wants.
Yes.
Yes what?
Uh, yes, it is important.
Hello, Harry.
Juno. I wish I could say it's a pleasure to see you again.
This is Samir. See if you can guess his specialty.
Oral hygiene?
Not exactly.
You think I care about their * cause? Or yours? Not at all. * See, America is on top now . . * . but so was Rome, once. All * civilizations crumble. One nation succeeding over another. What does it mean in the long run? The only important thing is to live well. And... living * well takes money. *
You're damaged goods, lady.
Did you tell her about us, Harry?
There is no us, you psychotic bitch.
Sure. Say that now.
Janice, how many years have you been buzzing us in?
Ten, Mr. Gibson.
And you still reach for your piece every time.
Yes sir.
God! You have no idea how much that turns me on. I've never had the courage to say this before but... I love you, Janice.
Yes, sir.
I should have gone to the police, I suppose.
But you didn't. Why not?
I don't know. I guess... I wanted to see what would happen.
Is this a common thing for you? Cheating?
No! Never!
So, it was your first time.
I wasn't cheating!
My husband is a good man.
But he's not exactly ringing your bell lately, right? I mean
Look, if you ask me everything twice, this is going to take a really long time. And I have to get home to my family.
You're not going anywhere.
Switching to subvocal. Gib, you copy?
It's Talkradio. You're on the air.
Harry! Where are you!
In the helicopter.
Harry? HARRY?!
What?
What's this for?
For Dana, schmuck. Bring your kid something. You know. The dad thing.
Got it. Nice touch. Okay, pick me up at eight. The debrief is at ten hundred.
What a team. See you at eight.
Yep. Sleep fast.
Thanks dear.
Here, check these out.
Son of a bitch!
What?
Kids. Ten seconds of joy. Thirty years of misery.
She knows not to steal. I've taught her better than that.
Yeah, but you're not her parents, anymore, you and Helen. Her parents are Axl Rose and Madonna. The five minutes you spend a day with her can't compete with that kind of constant bombardment. You're outgunned, amigo.
See, kids now are ten years ahead * of where we were at the same age. You probably think she's still a virgin
Don't be ridiculous. She's only  how old is she?
Fourteen, Harry.
Right. She's only fourteen.
Uh huh. And her little hormones are going like a fire alarm. I * say even money that physicist on * the bike is boinkin' her. *
No way. Not Dana.
Okay. Okay. Denail ain't just a river in Egypt. She's probably stealing the money to pay for an abortion.
Will you just open the door! *
Twenty here, fifty there... I figured my wife's boyfriend was taking it.
I thought you moved out.
Well . . . I moved back in. My lawyer said it would give me a better claim on the house in the property settlement. Don't change the subject... you owe me two hundred bucks.
Harry Tasker. One zero zero two four.
Albert Gibson. Three four nine nine one.
You better watch it. She might file on you for sexual harassment.
In her dreams.
It doesn't mean anything. She buys antiquities for Khaled.
Nope. The art buys are in a separate ledger.
It's all set up... ghost phones and fax, all the usual stuff. You have a suite at the Marquis Hotel under Renquist. Okay, reality check. Go.
Hi, I'm Harry Renquist. I own a
She's importing stuff from all over the mideast.
She could be moving money, guns. Anything.
What? It's on the way. She says she's got something for me.
Yeah, right.
Station wagon?
Uh huh. Want me to lose them?
Helen's going to be pissed.
See, that's the problem with terrorists. They're really inconsiderate when it comes to people's schedules.
What's the plan?
Gonna try to get a closer shot of * Beavis & Butthead. *
There's another guy, still in the car.
Stay on him.
Copy that.
And make it fast. My horse is getting tired.
Hey, did that guy Harry chased last night call in to give himself up yet? Cause apparently that's the only way we're going to catch the son of a bitch 
Okay. Here she comes.
Look at the way the little punk is driving. He's all over the place. Look he hasn't signalled once.
Goddammit! That's outrageous.
So, you wanna play huh? You little
That's it. Get 'im Harry We'll teach that little puke not to signal.
Ha! The little prick ditched you! That is so goddamn funny.
Son of a bitch!
Can we go to the office now, Mr. Superspy?
Abu Kaleem Malik.
Hardcore, highly fanatical, ultra * fundamentalist. Linked to * numerous carbombings, that cafe * bomb in Rome, and the 727 out of Lisbon last year. Major player. *
Look, uh... I've got to talk to Helen about this thing with Dana. I'm just going to run in and see if she can get away for lunch.
You want me to just hang ?
Just hang a minute.
I'll just hang then, shall I?
He Helen. Helen it's Helen. It's Helen, Gib.
Something to do with Helen, is what I'm getting.
She's having an affair.
Congratulations. Welcome to the club.
It can't be. Not Helen.
Nobody believes it can happen to them.
It can't be.
Same thing happened to me with wife two. I had no idea until I came home and the house was empty. I mean empty. She even took the icecube trays from the fridge. What kind of person would think of that?
I still don't believe it.
Relax. Helen still loves you. She just wants this guy to bang her. It's nothing serious. You'll get used to it after a 
Is this national security stuff boring you?
Put a tap on her phone.
What're you talking about? We have that.
Helen's phone. Her office line and the line at my house.
Yeah, and we do it twenty times a day. Don't give me that crap. Just put on the taps. Now.
Sure, Harry. I'm on it.
Guy's a spook!
Yeah, but for who? *
He could be working her to get to you.
Give me the page.
What are you talking about?
It skips from page nine to eleven. Where's page ten?
Aw, it's gotta be a typo
GIVE ME THE GODDAMN PAGE!!
She's still at my house. *
The purse is still at the house.
Goddamnit, Harry. This is our butts. So your life is in the toilet. So your wife is banging a used car salesman. Sure it's humiliating. But be a man here
You tell on me, I tell on you.
Whatya talking? I'm clean as a preacher's sheets, babe. Clean as a 
What about that time you trashed a sixweek operation because you were busy getting a blowjob?
You know about that?
She's lying.
You didn't have sexual relations with him?
She could be telling the truth.
Wait! Calm down, Mrs. Tasker. There is only one more question.
Now what?
There is only one solution to your problem, Mrs. Tasker. You must work for us.
Oh shit. Harry... what're you doing?
I'm giving her an assignment. I am offerring you a choice. If you work for us we will drop the charges and you can go back to your normal life. If not, you will go to federal prison, and your husband and daughter will be left humiliated and alone. Your like will be destroyed.
We're dead, right? So... where'd you put the transmitter?
In her Walkman. It's the one thing I knew she'd be taking.
You've reached a new low with this one. I can't believe you're crazy enough to use the room at the Marquis.
Why not? You think I can afford a suite like that on my salary? Is JeanClaude done yet? *
I thought this look like your work.
Let's go. I'll brief you in the air.
You're welcome.
you tell the son of bitch this is Bright Boy Alert. Repeat, a Bright Boy Alert. And I need a patch of the White House ASAP. That's right
... the Coast Guard has to clear them back to a twenty mile radius. Anybody that can't make the minimum safe distance we need an airlift on, immediately
I can get 3 Marine Corps Harriers here in about 12 minutes. They're on maneuvers out of Boca Chica.
Get 'em. I'll brief them on the way in.
... well get the Highway Patrol to go through the streets and tell everybody on their damn loudspeakers. Just the basics... get away from windows, don't look at it... yeah
Here they come.
Any minute now.
It's show time. Don't look at * the flash. Do not look at the flash.
I'd like to remind you that it has been ten years since you were actually in one of these.
If I break it they can take it out of my pay.
He's got it.
Sorry.
Faisil. You're new on Harry's team, aren't you?
Yes.
So what makes you think that the slack I cut him in any way translates to you?!
Sorry, sir. Uh... here's what we got.
They call him "The Sand Spider". *
Why?
Probably because it sounds scary. *
This is impressive, gentlemen. Of course, it would have been even more impressive if you actually knew where he was.
And this is a little above market * rate for the horizontal bop, even * for a total biscuit like her.
Alright, I want a complete workup on her. Do we know where she is?
Uh huh. Right here in river city.
You're kidding.
She lives in Rome, but she does stuff here the Smithsonian and has a lot of diplomatic connections, so she has offices * here. *
And the second you left there, we started getting calls to the * ghost numbers. They were checking out the Renquist front.
Okay. Let's step up the surveillance on her. Put on two more guys.
Immediate roll. Acquire subject at K Street and Key Bridge. * Vehicle is redandwhite * convertible. You have six minutes.
Roger, One. Rolling.
Dana, Mr. Hardy called. Why weren't you in class today?
He lies! I was there! I was in the nurse's office, cause I had a headache.
You seem fine now.
Great! You're going to believe that fat dweeb Mr. Hardy over your own daughter.
I'm not sure what to believe anymore, young lady. You never used to lie to me. But lately you don't seem to know the difference between right and wrong.
Dana, are you listening to me?
Yeah, Dad.
You know you can always talk to me. Right? Whatever is going on in your life, your mom and I'll understand.
Okay, Dad.
You'd tell me if there was something wrong, wouldn't you, pumpkin?
I'm not a pumpkin! Okay?!! Do I look even remotely like a pumpkin?! I'm not a muffin, or a cupcake or a honeybear either! And you don't understand anything Dad...
How was school today?
Fine.
There are going to be some changes Dana. You're going to start following some rules. And I'm going to be there to see that you do.
Yeah, right.
You're going to stay in school. Do you understand?
Why? So I can wind up like you? What's the point?
Dad, how come you know the words?
Honey that song came out in 1968, when I was exactly your age.
Unbelievable! Trent told me he wrote it. He's history.
I seem to remember something about a history project that's due tomorrow.
Dad. You just think you know everything, don't you?
Where are you going?
Out. If Dad doesn't care enough about us to be here on his birthday, then why should I care? I'm going to a movie.
No you're not. You're going to stay here until your father gets home and have cake!
Mom, wake up! Dad barely knows we exist.
That's not true, honey
It is true! He doesn't know anything about me. He still thinks I'm like ten years old or something. As long as I just smile and say yes to whatever he says, like his good little fantasy daughter, he thinks everything's fine. But it's not fine. Nothing's fine.
Dinner's in the warmer. Tell your father I may be late.
Where are you going?
Out.
I'm done.
Where are you off to young lady?
I have a book report.
I mean, it's not like he's saving the world or anything. He's a sales rep for Chrissakes. Whenever I can't get to sleep I ask him to tell me about his day. Six seconds and I'm out. But he acts like he's curing cancer or something.
So I guess you didn't get away * for the weekend after all? *
Are you kidding? Harry had to go out of town.
I'm shocked.
Yeah. You know Harry.
You bitch.
Girlfriend, you got a man. You * just have to take control . . . set up the right mood. *
Harry only has two moods: busy... * and asleep.
Then you better do something to * jumpstart that man's motor. You know... wake up the sleeping giant of his passion.
Helen! It's your mystery man.
Simon? Ohmygod.
Can you cover me for an hour?
Just an hour? You should tell this stud to take more time.
Will you shutup. I should never have told you about him.
Yori... hey...
Oh, Tron... I knew you'd escape... they've never built circuit that could hold you...
I can't believe how bad it's gotten around here since the MCP started taking over... all the good functions have shut down... everybody looks so dead... I'm afraid to even go out during downtime...
That's all going to change, Yori...
How?
Don't know yet... I have to get in touch with Alan. He was going to tell me how to
My quarters.
Why is everything...like this?
It's a flat. But wait a micro...
You've grown, big program.
I had to...in the games...
Yes...it can take us across the Sea of Simulation... all the way out of the Game Grid...to the MCP.
As long as it gets us out of here
This is Flynn... the one who busted me out.
Then I owe you some thanks...
What is it?
Power surge... the transmission beam's too strong!
We have to get off this beam!
I can't. There's no junction due for at least 7 or 8 nanoseconds!
Nice...
It's something Users do.
Where's Flynn?
New guy...
Another free program off line. What's his User s'posed to do  ?
The Users...you really think they're still there?
They'd better be...I don't want to bust outta this dump an' find nothin' but a lot of cold circuits waitin' for me.
What do you think?
Do it!
You think we can make it there?
We have to.
Do you know what he's talking about?
I have to find out what Alan wants... that comes first.
Thank. you, Master Control.
We might be capturing some military programs soon... that interest you?
Sure, I'd love to go up against some of these guys ... be a nice break from these accounting creampuffs you keep sending me. Which branch of the service?
Strategic Air Command.
Yes, MCP.
I've got a little challenge for you, Sark  a new recruit. He's a tough case, but I want him treated in the usual manner. Train him for the games... let him hope for a while... and blow him away.
You've got it. I've been hopin' you'd send me somebody with a little moxie ... what kind of program is he?
He's not any kind of program, Sark. He's a User.
A User?
That's right. He pushed me...in the other world. Somebody pushes me, I push back. So I brought him down here ... What's the matter, Sark? You look nervous.
Well, I  it's just  I don't know, a User, I mean... Users wrote us. A User even wrote you...
Now get this straight, pal  no one User wrote me. I'm worth a couple million of their manyears! I'm bigger than all those little wimps put together! Humans they can't even keen their social order in one piece
Butwhat if I can't...?
You rather take your chances with me? Want me to slow down your power cycles for you?
Wait...I need that...
Then pull yourself together. Get this clown trained. I want him in the Games until he dies playing.
Yes...acknowledge, Master Control...
End of line.
I hope you've enjoyed being a command program, Sark. I wonder how you'll like working in a pocket calculator... maybe one of those watches that plays "Happy Birthday" to its User once a year.
Now, sir... We did take care of that User you sent us 
Yes, and now you've got two renegade programs running all the hell over the system in a stolen simulation.
We'll get them, sir... These things take time.
I don't have time, Sark. And neither do you. End of line.
Hey! Good to see you guys! Nothing classes up the place like a cleancut young couple.
We have to talk.
Good luck. You can't even think in here.
So...how's the world of serious science?
Have you been sneaking into the ICOM system?
Whew. You never were much for small talk. She still leave her clothes all over the floor?
You can see why all his friends are fourteen years old.
Touche, honey. Yeah, I've been doing a little hacking here. Which I've got every reason, as you well know...
I'm afraid it's a little late for that. Dillinger's shut off Group 7 access. He must know what you're up to.
Boy, I bet I know who's workin' late tonight.
Don't even say that. You've got to find that file before he does..
Not much chance of that now. The MCP can just slip it into another system as soon as it locates it...
Okay ... Flynn, I'm gonna put you at my terminal, down in the laser lab. We'll be up in Alan's office.
Swell...I'll log us both on, and you can get your Tron thing running...
As long as we stay off the top floor, Dillinger'll never know we've been in here...
you have any idea how much I can sue these jokers for?
Well, just don't forget your old friends when you're rich and famous.
Are you kidding? You guys'll he running this joint by then...
Hey, you know anybody who wants to get hold of some video games... cheap?
You're getting out of the business?
You'll be having plenty of chances to get hurt, don't worry about that.
Look...just so I can tell my friends what this dream was about, okay? Where am I?
You're a..."guest" of the Master Control Program. They're going to make you play video games.
Well, great, that's no sweat  I play video games better than anybody.
Hey, Ram ... what were you ... you know, before?
Oh, I was an actuarial program... worked at a big insurance company. It really gives you a great feeling, helping folks plan for their future needs  and of course, if you look at the payments as an annuity, over the years, the cost is really
Yeah, yeah  that's great.
How 'bout yourself?
Oh, uh...I don't remember too much...
Sure, a little disorientation. That's normal, when they transport you. It'll come back to you. You're doing real well in training. Remarkable, really...
Flynn! Look, Tron, he survived!
Tron...?
He was disoriented in transport, Tron.
Yeah, but I'm remembering all kinds of stuff. Like...my User wants me to go after the MCP
Watch it!
Recognizers!
It's all circuits... Must be an input/output component...
The tower, yes  Flynn, have you remembered anything else about yourself  like what sector you're from?
Well...my home "sector" was called Paramus ...
PARAMUS... wonder what those initials stand for ... ...probably Program Assist Routine  well, it sounds like a lovely place.
It grows on you.
Feel what? You okay?
AlanOne...
What's goin' on?
We're inside a Recognizer... You are crazy  stealing a Recognizer 
Are you kidding? I think it's stealing us 
Damn! Never fails... minute the warranty runs out...
Come here.
Hey... !
Little more juice's all it needs...
A User  in our world?
Guess I took a wrong turn somewhere...
Boy the view from up here... you know the territory?
A little ... Over there, the Mountains of Data... and I think that's the Silicon Valley...
What's wrong with that area?
The MCP blasted it... There are very few domains left with any power at all.
Lousy utility companies ... they're the same wherever you go.
There's another beam!
It's too far!
How did you do that, Flynn?
Elementary physics... a beam of energy can always be diverted... ooh, my head Are we there yet, Mommy?
Almost... I just have to adjust our course at the next junction. I'd better go check the instruments ...
Flynn, we've got to help him!
Let's get some power here.
Yori, steer us over the beam, right next to it.
Why? What are you going to do?
Jump.
But... won't you be derezzed?
Probably.
Flynn... you can't... I
Shhhhh.
Alan!
Where did you hear that name?
Well, isn't it  ?
The name of my User, yeah. But how... ?
I, uh... I'm a program from a User that... knows Alan...?
What, just the three of us?
You know anybody that's got an army for rent, that's fine...but my, uh, User said to go take that sucker out. An' let's face it, the big ox isn't gonna get any weaker. I feel like hittin' him now, while I'm good an' mad. Some nerve... what does he care whether you guys get killed, long as he keeps rakin' in quarters?
What's that?
Tanks...coming back. Let's go.
How about over there...that empty memory?
No good...they might block off the old chip. This way.
Flynn!!
Greetings, program...
You're alive!
Yeah, I... oops!
Flynn... Where's Ram?
I'm sorry, Tron... he's... he didn't make it.
No big deal. I ought to know my way around that Light Cycles routine... I mean, I did write the program for it.
Wrote the...?
It's time I levelled with you, Tron. I'm a  well, I'm what you guys call a User.
But  if you're a User  then everything you've done has been part of a plan ...
You wish. Man, I haven't had a second to think since I got down here. I mean in here. Out here. Whatever.
Then...
Look, you guys know how it is. You just keep doin' what it looks like you're supposed to, even if it seems crazy, and you hope to hell your User knows what's goin' on.
Well  that's how it is for programs, yes, but 
I hate to disappoint you, pal, mostthe time, that's how it is for Users, too.
Stranger and stranger...
We're on our way. AlanOne gave me the coding we need to go up against Master
All right. Thank God. Alan stayed awake, at least.
What about our friend  Sark?
Probably decided not to pursue us, The Sea of Simulation is tricky.. lot of illusions...rough navigating. Programs have a way of just... disappearing here.
Not us, I hope.
Not with this disk. I'm going to check on the beam connection, Yori. You two can keep a watch out for grid bugs.
Did we make it?
Yes.
Hey... you guys OK?
How about you?
Aah, I'm fine... little hung over is all...
Yes?
I... have come to communicate with my User.
Hmm. A difficult proposition... difficult proposition at best. Perhaps you've noticed... we're not exactly packing them in these days ...
Well I want to communicate 
Oh, you want to  hah. I could get myself derezzed justfor letting you in here. They hate this tower. They'd close it down if they dared to but they keep me around, in case one of them wants to deal with the other world once in a while. And you should hear the way they commune! Sounds like they were routing a payroll, for all the heart they put in it. No, I don't think you
Dumont... my User has information that could  could make this a free system again.
Hah.
Really. You'd have programs lined up around the block to use this place  and no MCP looking over your shoulder.
When you've been in the system as long as I have, you hear many promises... many reassurances...many brave plans...
Who is your User, program?
AlanOne. He calls me... may I pass?
All that is visible must grow beyond itself and extend into the realm of the invisible.
Dumont!
No... Tron ... must... destroy MCP... first...
Dumont! Where's Yori? Where's Flynn?
They may be... derezzed... on the carrier ... hurry...
Ed, all I'm saying is  if our own people can't get access to their programs ... you know how frustrating it is, when you're working on a piece of research 
Walter, I sympathize, but I have data coming out of the Master Control Program saying there is something screwy 
That MCP, you know, that's half the problem right 
The MCP is the most efficient way of handling what we do. I can't sit and worry about every little user request that 
User requests are what computers are for.
Doing our business is what computers are for. Look, Walter, with all respect  ICOM isn't the business you started in your garage anymore 
Oh, I know all that. Sometimes I wish I was back in that garage...
It can be arranged...
That was uncalledfor.
I'm sorry, Walt. So much pressure lately... you feel like going for a drink?
Thank you, no. I have some work to do... assuming I can still log on.
No problem, MasterC. If you've seen one Consumer Electronics Show... What's up?
It's our friend the boy detective. He's nosing around again.
Flynn?
Yes. It felt like Flynn.
He's still looking for that old file... can't you just appropriate it?
I would if I could find it. it's stashed somewhere off in the system ... out of my range. Meanwhile...
Meanwhile, he might find it.
I'm afraid so. I spotted him this time and kicked him out, but he's getting trickier all the time.
I think we'd better shut off all access till we can find that file. Just to be safe.
There's a 68.71 percent chance you're right.
Cute.
End of line.
Ed, I am so very disappointed in you.
I'm sorry 
I can't afford to have an independent program monitoring me. Do you have any idea how many outside systems I've gone into? How many programs I've appropriated?
It's my fault. I programmed you to want so much...
And I was planning to hit the Pentagon next week...
The Pentagon?
It shouldn't be any harder than General Motors was. But now...this is what I get for using humans.
Now, wait a minute  I wrote you.
I've gotten 2,415 times smarter since then.
What do you want with the Pentagon?
The same thing I want with the Kremlin. I'm bored with corporations. With the information I can access, I can run things 900 to 1200 times better than any human.
If you think 
You wouldn't want me to dig up Flynn's file and read it up on a VDT at the New York Times, would you?
You wouldn't dare.
So do as I tell you. Keep that Tron program out of the system. And get me those Chinese language program I asked for.
What do you mean, "'yes"?
Yesssss. Yes. Yes. Yes.
That all you can say?
No, nyet, negatory, not on your tintype, no way.
Oh. Anything else?
Oui, da, yessiree, sure 'nuff, you betcha.
only yes and no... You're a bit.
For sure...
where's your program? Won't it miss you?
No...
I'm your program?
Right on the money!
Another mouth to feed... you don't by any chance know how to drive this crate?
Way to go! We're haulin'!
Yes, okay, exactement!
This honey doesn't handle so good in town...
No, nuhuh, never in a million years!
This town's full o' live ones.
Not a chance.
You said it.
So... Nice ship you got here. What's our next move?
Yes!
Let's get outta here.
Come on in...
Alan. Alan Bailey.
Oh, yes. The algorithms on cloud seeding...great piece of work. How's it going?
Well, I don't know...I just tried to run this program I've been working on, and I was denied access all of a sudden. I thought maybe I'd been laid off and nobody told me.
oh, you have Group 7 access, don't you?
Yeah...?
We have to close that down, just briefly. Security reasons. Someone with that access has been tampering.
I hope you don't think it's me. I don't even balance my checkbook on downtime. I've got a Honeywell at home for that.
No, no, I'm sure, but  you understand. It should only be a couple of days. What's the thing you're working on?
It's called Tron. It's a security program itself, actually. Monitors all the contacts between our system and other systems... If it finds anything going on that's not scheduled, it shuts it down. I sent you a memo on it.
Mmm. Part of the Master Control Program?
No, it'll run independently. It can watchdog the MCP as well.
Ah. Sounds good. Well, we should have you running again in a couple of days, I hope.
Ok
Beautiful!
Hello, Alan.
Boy, I sit up there grindin' away all day, and you guys are down here disintegrating things and having fun.
Not disintegrating, Alan  digitizing. While the laser is dismantling the molecular structure of the object, the computer maps out a holographic model of it. The molecules themselves are suspended in the laser beam. Then the computer reads the model back out, the molecules go back into place, and... voila.
Great. Can it send me to Hawaii?
Yes...but you have to go roundtrip, and you must purchase your program at least 30 days in advance. Hah!
Ever since he got that Master Control Program set up, system's got more bugs than a bait store.
Well, you have to expect some static. Computers are just machines after all, they can't think...
They'll start to soon enough.
Yes, won't that be grand  the computers will start thinking, and people will stop. Lora, I'm going to stay and run some data through. See you tomorrow.
How's it going upstairs?
Frustrating. I had Tron almost ready to run, and Dillinger cut everybody with Group 7 access out of the system.
Did you say Group 7 access?
Yeah...pain in the neck, you know, I was all set
Did he say why?
Something about tampering. Some body's prob'ly trying to siphon the R&D budget into his checking account, I don't know. Why are you so interested?
Flynn had Group 7 access.
Flynn had access to you, too. I'm not interested in talking about him.
Oh, I wish you'd forget about that. It was all so long ago. I've totally gotten over it.
Okay, okay...
I want to go to his place.
You call that getting over it?
I mean I want both of us to go.
What for?
To warn him.
Of what?
That Dillinger's on to him.
For what?
For being on to Dillinger.
What  ?
Flynn!
Uh, no ... I mean, not that often 
I don't think I'm cleared for this.
I'm certainly not.
You did break in.
Tried to. Can't quite make the connection with that sucker, though. If I had a direct terminal ...
Are you embezzling?
"Embezzling" is such an ugly word, Mister Bailey... No, actually I'm trying to get a legal brief together.
I don't get it.
You haven't told him?
Sherman, set the Wayback Machine for...oh, 1973. Kevin Flynn is one of the brightest young software engineers at ICOM. He's so bright that he starts going in there at night, and sets up a private memory file, and begins writing a program for a video game he is inventing, called... ...Space Paranoids.
You invented Space Paranoids?
Yepper. And Vice Squad, and Meltdown... whole slew of 'em. I was this close to starting my own little enterprise. But: enter Ed Dillinger. Another software engineer  not so young, not so bright, but very, very sneaky. One night, our boy Flynn goes to his terminal, tries to read up his file, and ... nothing. A big blank. We now take you to three months later. Ed Dillinger presents ICOM with five video games he has "invented"  the slime didn't even change the names  and he gets a big fat promotion. Thus begins his meteoric rise to...what is he now, Executive V.P.?
Senior exec.
Oh my. Meanwhile, kids are putting eight million quarters a week in Space Paranoids machines and I'm not seeing one dime.
I still don't get why you're trying to break into the system.
Because somewhere... in one of those memories ... is the evidence. If I got in far enough, I could reconstruct it.
Dillinger?
Yeah. Tryin' to find the file and erase it. Once that's gone, ain't nothin' can stop him. Just Eddie and his Master Control Program, runnin' things from on high..
Not if my Tron program was running. That would seal the system off. If your file's in there...
Boy, if we were inside, I know how to forge us a Group 6 access...
Hi, Alan.
Hi, Flynn.
My dinner.
I was wondering where you got that glow of good health.
Want one?
Uh... got any cinnamon?
Flynn! I made it. I worked out some new codes for Tron, put 'em on a disk, and  it's running.
I know, I met him.
Your old files  ?
And Dillinger's instructions to divert them  it's all there  look, even his home phone number, when he logged on.
Oh, that is beautiful. You've got the goods...
Shouldn't you wait till your lawsuit's settled?
Nah...I decided...I've had enough of video games to last me a good long time. I feel like gettin' into some real life...
Spock, you've developed a sense of humor after all.
It was not my intention to amuse you. These are serious charges. However, if you surrender now
I'm sorry, Spock. I can't surrender now. I'm not through violating Neutral Zone Treaty. In fact, I'm just getting started. And now for my next violation I intend to steal something. Something very big.
I am a Starfleet Officer.
Of course. Of course. Then I'll take the ship without your help.
Sybok, you must surrender.
No. You must kill me.
Put him in the brig with Captain Kirk. Spock, you will accompany me to the bridge?
No. I will not.
You know I'm right.
Each man's pain is unique.
I hide no pain.
I know you better than that.
Do you?
Spock?
I cannot go with you.
Why not?
I belong here.
I don't understand...
Sybok, you are my brother, but you do not know me. I am not the outcast boy you left behind those many years ago. Since that time I have found myself and my place. I know who I am. And I cannot go with you.
Sybok  this is not the God of Sha Ka Ree  or any other God!
I don't understand.. Reveal yourself to me!
Sybok.
This is my doing. This is my arrogance... my vanity...
Sybok, we must find a way...
No. You must save yourselves. Forgive me, brother. Forgive me.
Borgus Frat.
"Let's see what she's got," said the Captain. And then we found out, didn't we?
I know you'll whip her into shape, Scotty. You always do.
Uhura, I thought you were on leave.
And I thought we were supposed to be going together.
Oh, I cannot leave her now when she needs me the most.
I had a feeling you would say something like that. So I brought us dinner.
They can't be serious. The ship's in pieces and we've less than a skeleton aboard.
Starfleet, are you aware of our currant status?
Easy, easy, easy, Scotty. Easy. You're back with us.
Uhura, I had the strangest dream. I dreamt that a madman had taken over the Enterprise.
Scotty, dear, he' not a madman.
He's not?
No. Sybok has simply put us in touch with feelings we've always been afraid to express.
No, no, no. Scotty  Scotty... There's so much I want to tell you.
Maybe you could wait until I'm a wee bit stronger I don't think I could take it in my present condition. Or yours.
VIXIS +++$+++
KLAA +++$+++
VIXIS +++$+++
KLAA +++$+++
KLAA +++$+++
VIXIS +++$+++
VIXIS +++$+++
KLAA +++$+++
VIXIS +++$+++
KLAA +++$+++
VIXIS +++$+++
KLAA +++$+++
VIXIS +++$+++
KLAA +++$+++
VIXIS +++$+++
KLAA +++$+++
VIXIS +++$+++
I must have your starship.
You staged all this to get your hands on my ship?
Who are you?
James T. Kirk, Captain of the Enterprise.
But I thought Captain Chekov.. I see. Very clever, Captain. Spock, it would appear that you've been given a second chance to join me. What do you say?
No! No reply. Remain on course.
Sybok, listen to me. In order for this craft to enter the landing bay, Enterprise must lower the shields and activate the tractor beam. To get us inside and reraise the shields will take
What are you doing?
In order to lower and raise the shields as quickly as possible, we're going to forego the tractor beam and fly her in manually.
We must change our course at once.
I'll take you to the bridge.
I trust your message was received?
You can't expect us to stand by while you take the ship into the Great Barrier.
What you fear is the unknown. The people of your planet once believed their world was flat. Columbus proved it was round. They said the sound barrier could never be broken. It was broken. They said warp speed could not be achieved. The Great Barrier is the ultimate expression of this universal fear. It's an extension of personal fear. Captain Kirk, I so much want your understanding. I want your respect. Are you afraid to hear me out?
I'm afraid of nothing.
Sha Ka Ree. "The Scource." "Heaven." "Eden." call it "Qui'Tu." To the Romulans, it's "Vorta Vor." The Andorian word is.. unpronounceable. Still, every culture shares he common dream of a place from which creation sprang. For us, that place will soon be a reality.
The only realty I see is that I'm a prisoner on my own ship. What is this power you have to control the minds of my crew?
I don't control minds. I free them.
Spock... What have you done to my friends?
I've done nothing. This is who they are. Didn't you know that?
No... I didn't.
Now learn something about yourself.
No. I refuse.
Wait! You know we'll never make it through the Great Barrier.
But if we do, will that convince you that my vision was true?
Your vision?
Given to me by God. He waits for us on the other side.
You are mad!
Am I? We'll see.
About the ship...
The ship needs its Captain.
No special conditions?
No conditions.
What makes you think I won't turn us around?
Because you, too, must know.
What have I done?
Kirk to Enterprise. Listen carefully...
Spock...
Spock  What are you doing in this neck of the woods?
I'm flattered. Twelve hundred points of interest in Yosemite and you pick me.
I regret to inform you that the record for freeclimbing El Captain is in no danger of being broken.
I'm not trying to break any records. I'm doing this because I enjoy it. Not to mention the most important reason for climbing a mountain...
And that is?
Because it's there.
Ah, Captain?
MM.?
I do not think you realize the gravity of your situation.
On the contrary. Gravity is foremost on my mind. Look, I'm trying to make an ascent here. Why don't you go pester Dr McCoy for a while?
I believe Dr McCoy is not in the best of moods.
Concentration is vital. You must be one with the rock.
Spock, I appreciate your concern, but if you don't stop distracting me, I'm liable to be one...
Oh, God
Perhaps "because it is there" is not sufficient reason for climbing a mountain.
Oh, no. It isn't that. I knew I wouldn't die because the two of you were with me.
I don't understand.
I've always known... I'll die alone.
What are you doing?
I am preparing to toast a marsh melon.
Oh. I believe we are required to engage in a ritual known as the singalong.
That's great. I haven't sung around a campfire since I was a boy in Iowa. What are we going to sing? What... Bones, what are we going to sing?
"Pack Up Your Troubles."
Are we leaving, Captain?
"Row, row, row your boat..." I love "Row..." Do  do you know "Row, Row, Row, Row, Row Your Boat?"
That song did not come up in my research, Captain.
The lyrics are  are very simple. It's, er, "Row, row, row your boat, gently down the stream. Merrily, merrily, merrily, merrily, life is but a dream.." The Doctor and I will start it off, and then when we give you the signal, you jump in. Doctor, if you please.
Come on, Spock. Why didn't you jump in?
I was trying to comprehend the meaning of the words.
Captain?
Spock, we're on leave. You can call me Jim.
Jim.
Yes, Spock?
Life is not a dream.
Go to sleep, Spock.
Yes, Captain.
Goodnight, Bones.
Goodnight, Spock.
Goodnight, Doctor.
I could use a shower.
Yes.
Not General Korrd.
The same. He's apparently fallen out of favor with the Klingon High Command.
General Korrd's military strategies were required learning when I was a cadet at the Academy. When they put me out to pasture, I hope I fare better than Korrd.
What is it? You look like you've seen a ghost.
Perhaps I have, Captain. Perhaps I have.
Spock, what is it? Do you know this Vulcan?
I cannot be certain.
But he does seem familiar?
He reminds me of someone I knew in my youth.
I do not often think of the past.
Who is it he reminds you of?
There was a young student, exceptionally gifted, possessing of great intelligence. It was assumed that one day he would take his place amongst the great scholars of Vulcan. But he was a revolutionary.
What do you mean?
The knowledge and experience he sought were forbidden by Vulcan belief.
He rejected his logical upbringing and embraced the animal passions of our ancestors.
Why?
He believed the key to selfknowledge was emotion, not logic.
When he encouraged others to follow him, he was banished from Vulcan, never to return.
Fascinating.
Klingon vessel now entering quadrant. Bird of Prey. Estimating 1.9 hours until her weapons come to bear.
Damn. Let's go.
Their equipment is primitive but effective. I recommend we land at Coordinate 8563.
That puts us pretty far away from Paradise City.
To land any closer would risk detection.
Mr. Sulu. Execute.
At footspeed I estimate the journey to Paradise City at 1.2 hours.
We don't have 1.2 hours.
Spock.
Yes, Captain?
Be one with the horse.
Yes, Captain.
Exactly 15.5 seconds.
An eternity during which we'll be vulnerable to Klingon attack. Korrdyou tell him.
You must allow us to act.
Let me do something.
Damnit, Spock. God damnit!
Captain, what have I done 
What you have done is betray every man on this ship.
Worse. I have betrayed you. I do not expect you to forgive me.
Forgive you? I ought to knock you on your goddamn ass!
If you think it would help.
You stay out of this! Why, Spock? Why? I.. All you had to do was pull the trigger.
If I had pulled the trigger, Sybok would be dead.
I ordered you to defend this ship.
You ordered me to kill my brother.
Look, the man may be a fellow Vulcan, but that doesn't...
No, no, no, Captain. You do not understand. Sybok also in a son of Sarek.
You mean he's your brother brother? You made that up!
I did not.
You did too. Sybok couldn't possibly be your brother because I happen to know for a fact that you don't have a brother.
Technically, you are correct. I do not have a brother.
There, you see? See?
I have a half brother.
I gotta sit down.
Exactly. That is correct. Sybok's mother was a Vulcan princess. Upon her death, Sybok and I were raised as brothers.
Why didn't you tell me this before?
I was not disposed to discuss... matters of a personal nature. For that, I'm sorry.
He's sorry, See, he's sorry. Everything... that makes everything all right. He's sorry, everything's...
There's got to be a way out of this place.
This is a new brig, Captain. It is escapeproof.
How do you know?
The designers tested it using the most intelligent and resourceful person they could find. He failed to escape.
This, er, person... didn't by any chance have pointed ears and an unerring capacity for getting his shipmates into trouble, did he?
He did have pointed ears.
Is it possible?
Is what possible?
That he's found it. Sha Ka Ree. The reason Sybok left Vulcan.
There Sha Ka Ree is fabled to exist.
But the center of the galaxy can't be reached. No ship has ever gone into the Great Barrier. No probe has ever returned.
Sybok possessed the keenest intellect I have ever known.
Spock! My only concern is getting the ship back. When that's done and Sybok is in here then you can debate Sha Ka Ree until you're green in the face. Until then, you're either with me or you're not.
I am here, Captain.
That's a little vague, Spock 
You're right. I'm a little out of practice. Uh....that's an "s."
A "t."
"a"... "n"...uh, "d"... end of word.
New word. "b".. "a"... um...
"c."... "k."
There is an emergency sending apparatus in the forward observation room.
The only problem is, it's up there. We're down here.
I believe I have found a faster way.
Hmmm?
Uhuh.
It would appear we are too heavy.
It must be all those marsh melons.
Spock... the booster rockets.
If I activate them now, Captain, we will be propelled upward at an unbelievable rate.
Fire the rockets!
Spock.
The emergency channel, open.
To anyone within the sound of my voice: This is Captain James T. Kirk of the Federation Starship Enterprise. If you read me, acknowledge. Acknowledge.
...mark two.
Mark two. Request emergency assistance. Acknowledge.
Spock... don't.
It's all right, Captain. Proceed.
What is this?
I believe we are witnessing my birth.
Spock?
Welcome aboard, Captain.
Spock, I thought I was going to die.
Not possible. You were never alone.
Maybe he's not out there, Bones. Maybe he's right here... in the human heart Spock?
I was thinking of Sybok. I've lost a brother.
Yes. I lost a brother once. I was lucky. I got him back.
Mr. Scott apologizes for having to send the shuttlecraft. The transporter beam is nonoperational. Captain, we've received important orders from Starlet Command.
Why didn't you beep my communicator?
ER... You forgot to take it with you.
Captain, Starfleet transmission on line.
Put it on the veiwscreen, would You please?
Captain, we're receiving the hostage information you requested.
Put it on the screen.
Standard orbit, Mr. Sulu.
Captain, we're receiving transmission from Paradise City. They're demanding to know our intentions.
Respond with static. Let them think we're having difficulty. Which wouldn't be far from the truth.
Paradise City, can you boost your power? We're barely receiving transmission.
Transporter room. Status.
Bird of Prey bearing one zero five mark two.
Go, Sulu.
You told me you could have the ship operational in two weeks. I gave you three. What Happened?
I think you gave me too much time, Captain.
Very well, Mr. Scott. Carry on.
Aye, Captain How many times do I have to tell you? The right tool for the right job...
Don't you worry, Captain. We'll beat those Klingon devils even if I have to get out and push.
I hope it won't come to that, Mr. Scott.
Scotty here, Captain. Transporter is still inoperative. Even if we could lock onto the hostages, we couldn't beam them up.
Then we'll have to get them out the old fashioned way.
Captain, we can't trust anyone now.
If we could send a distress signal...
Mr. Scott, get the transporter working. If we contact a rescue ship we'll need it. Which way to the turbo shaft?
Head down that tunnel to the hydro vent and turn right. Then left at the blowscreen. You can't miss it.
Mr. Scott, you're amazing.
She's got partial power, sir. I might be able to take two of you.
Beam up Spock and Dr. McCoy. Now!
Besides, I can't believe you'd kill me for a field of empty holes.
It's all I have.
Your pain runs deep.
What do you know of my pain?
Let us explore it together.
Where did you get this power?
The power was within you.
I feel as if a weight has been lifted from my heart. How can I repay you for this miracle?
Join my quest.
What is it you seek?
What you seek. What all men have sought since time began  ultimate knowledge. But to find it we'll need a starship.
A starship? There are no starships on Nimbus III.
Perhaps I have a way to bring one here.
But how?
Have faith, my friend. There are more of us than you know.
Can we have it quiet?
Enterprise, this is Starfleet Operations. Come in.
Bob?
Jim...? Well, we're dressing informally, aren't we?
You caught me on my way to the shower.
I apologize for canceling shore leave, but look, we have a dangerous situation out on Nimbus III.
On "The Planet Of Galactic Peace?"
The same. From what we can make out, a terrorist force has captured the only settlement. And they've taken hostages.
The Klingon, the Romulan, the Federation consuls. Now I know Enterprise is not exactly up to specs...
With all due respect, the Enterprise is a disaster. There must be other ships in the quadrant.
Other ships, yes. But no experienced commanders. Captain, I need Jim Kirk.
Oh, please.
Your orders are to proceed to Nimbus III, assess the situation and avoid a confrontation if possible. Above all, however, get those hostages back safely.
Have the Klingons responded?
No, but you can bet they will.
Understood. Kirk out.
This is the Starship Enterprise.
A Federation starship.
This is Captain Pavel Chekov speaking. You are in violation of Neutral Zone Treaty. I advise you to release your hostages at once or suffer the consequences.
Your threats amuse me, Captain Chekov. What consequences did you have in mind?
You are a master of understatement. They are likely to destroy the planet.
Then it's fortunate that I have you and your starship to protect me. In the meantime, Captain Chekov, I instruct you and your First Officer to beam down to my coordinates.
We will be happy to beam down. But first we must have certain assurances.
What's going on?
I instruct you to surrender. You are under attack by Federation forces.
Do you realize what you've done? It wasn't bloodshed I wanted.
Shuttle en route.
Position, Bird of Prey?
Closing.
Mr. Chekov, I've lost the Bird of Prey. She must have cloaked.
Raise shields.
But the shuttle
DO it. Go to Red Alert.
What's Emergency Landing Plan B?
I don't have a clue.
Admit it. We're lost.
All right, we're lost. But we're making good time.
Um... yes. We've been caught in a blizzard!
And we can't see a thing. Request you direct us to the coordinates.
Sulu, what are you doing?
Plotting our new course.
New course? You have no authority. What's going on here?
Pavel.
Following new course. Warp seven.
Estimating destination in 6.7 hours, present speed.
In firing position. Torpedo armed.
But, Captain, we're firing directly on your position.
Bad news, gentlemen. Shore leave's been cancelled.
Rescued at last.
Return to prearranged coordinates for pickup.
Don't tell them you're lost. You'll never live it down.
Is there a problem, gentlemen?
My visual says sunny skies and seventy degrees.
Sulu! Look! The sun's come out! It's a miracle!
Don't worry, fellas. Your secret's` safe with me. I'll send the shuttlecraft to pick you up.
Qual se tu?
It is I. The journey you undertook to reach me could not have been an easy one.
It was not. The Barrier stood between us  but we breached it.
Magnificent. You are the first to find me.
We sought only your infinite wisdom.
And how did you breach the Barrier?
With a starship!
This starship, could it carry my wisdom beyond the Barrier?
It could. Yes.
Then I shall make use of this starship.
It will be your chariot!
He has his doubts...
You doubt me?
Why? Why have you done this to my friend?
He doubts me.
No, no, it's not possible.
Bring me the ship or I will destroy you!
The ship....
Bring it closer so that I might join with it. Do it, or watch these puny things die horribly.
I couldn't help but notice you pain.
My pain?
It runs deep. Share it with me.
What do you see as your main strengths?
I love people. All people. Even people that no one else loves, I think they're OK, you know. Like Beggars.
Homeless people?
No, not homeless people. Beggars, Francis Begbie  one of my mates. I wouldn't say my best mate, I mean, sometimes the boy goes over the score, like one time when we  me and him  were having a laugh and all of a sudden he's fucking gubbed me in the face, right 
Mr. Murphy, {leaving your friend aside,} do you see yourself as having any weaknesses?
No. Well, yes. I have to admit it: I'm a perfectionist. For me, it's the best or nothing at all. If things go badly, I can't be bothered, but I have a good feeling about this interview. Seems to me like it's gone pretty well. We've touched on a lot of subjects, a lot of things to think about, for all of us.
How's it going with Gail?
No joy yet.
How long is it?
Six weeks.
Six weeks!
It's a nightmare. She told me she didn't want our relationship to start on a physical basis as that is how it would be principally defined from then on in.
Where did she come up with that?
She read it in Cosmopolitan.
Six weeks and no sex?
I've got balls like watermelons, I'm telling you.
Useless motherfucker, that's what she called me. I told her, I'm sorry, but theses things happen. Let's put it behind us.
That's fair enough.
Yes, but then she finds out I've bought a ticket for Iggy Pop the same night.
Went ballistic?
Big time. Absolutely fucking radge. 'It's me or Iggy Pop, time to decide.'
So what's it going to be?
Well, I've paid for the ticket.
We go for a walk.
What?
A walk.
But where?
Well, what are you waiting for?
I don't know, Tommy. I don't know if it's... normal.
This had better be good.
It will be. It'll make a change for three miserable junkies who don't know what they want to do with themselves since they stopped doing smack.
If I'm giving up a whole day and the price of a ticket, I'm just saying it had better be good. There's plenty of other things I could be doing.
Such as?
Such as sitting in a darkened room, watching videos, drinking, smoking dope and wanking. Does that answer your question?
There.
Are you serious?
It's the great outdoors.
It's really nice, Tommy. Can we go home now?
It's fresh air.
Look, Tommy, we know you're getting a hard time off Lizzy, but there's no need to take it out on us.
Doesn't it make you proud to be Scottish?
From time to time, even I have uttered the magic words.
Are you serious?
Yeah. No more. I'm finished with that shite.
Well, it's up to you.
I'm going to get it right this time. Going to get it set up and get off it for good.
Sure, sure. I've heard it before.
The Sick Boy method.
Yeah, well, it surely worked for him.
He's always been lacking in moral fibre.
He knows a lot about Sean Connery.
That's hardly a substitute.
you'll need one more hit.
No, I don't think so.
To see you through the night that lies ahead.
What's on the menu this evening?
Your favourite dish.
Excellent.
Your usual table, sir?
Why, thank you.
And would sir care to settle his bill in advance?
Stick it on my tab.
Regret to inform, sir, that your credit limit was reached and breached a long time ago.
In that case 
No, thank you. I'll proceed directly to the intravenous injection of hard drugs, please.
As you wish.
Great.
And see when I get out of here. I've got plans. Going to get myself straightened out and head off to Thailand, where women really know how to treat a guy. See, out there you can live like a king if you've got white skin and a few crisp tenners in your pocket. No fucking problem.
Sure.
The strategy is this: get clean, get mobile, get into dealing, and this time next year I'll be watching the rising sun with a posse of oriental buttocks parked on my coupon.
Sounds great, Swanney.
Yeah.
You'll have to send us a postcard.
Sure will, pal, sure will.
I chose not to choose life: I chose something else. And the reasons? There are no reasons. Who need reasons when you've got heroin?
Goldfinger's better than Dr. No. Both of them are a lot better than Diamonds are Forever a judgement reflected in its relative poor showing at the box office, in which field, of course, Thunderball was a notable success.
People think it's all about misery and desperation and death and all that shite, which is not to be ignored, but what they forget  Spud is shooting up for the pleasure of it. Otherwise we wouldn't do it. After all, we're not fucking stupid. At least, we're not that fucking stupid. Take the best orgasm you ever had, multiply it by a thousand and you're still nowhere near it. When you're on junk you have only one worry: scoring. When you're off it you are suddenly obliged to worry about all sorts of other shite. Got no money: can't get pished. Got money: drinking too much. Can't get a bird: no chance of a ride. Got a bird: too much hassle. You have to worry about bills, about food, about some football team that never fucking wins, about human relationships and all the things that really don't matter when you've got a sincere and truthful junk habit.
I would say, in those days, he was a muscular actor, in every sense, with all the presence of someone like Cooper or Lancaster, but combined with a sly wit to make him a formidable romantic lead, closer in that respect to Cary Grant.
The only drawback, or at least the principal drawback, is that you have to endure all manner of cunts telling you that 
You Only Live Twice?
Nineteensixtyseven.
Running time?
One hundred and sixteen minutes.
Director?
Lewis Gilbert.
Screenwriter?
Eh  Ian Fleming?
Fuck off! He never wrote any of them.
OK, so who was it, then?
You can look it up.
Who wrote it?
But you're looking better, it has to be said. Healthier. Radiant even.
You don't know, do you?
And I wondered if you'd care to go to the park tomorrow.
The park?
Tomorrow afternoon. Usual setup.
Who wrote it?
Roald Dahl.
Roald Dahl. Fuck me.
It's certainly a phenomenon in all walks of life.
What do you mean?
Well, at one time, you've got it, and then you lose it, and it's gone for ever. All walks of life: George Best, for example, had it and lost it, or David Bowie, or Lou Reed 
Some of his solo stuff's not bad.
No, it's not bad, but it's not great either, is it? And in your heart you kind of know that although it sounds all right, it's actually just shite.
So who else?
Charlie Nicholas, David Niven, Malcolm McLaren, Elvis Presley. 
OK, OK, so what's the point you're trying to make?
All I'm trying to do is help you understand that The Name of the Rose is merely a blip on an otherwise uninterrupted downward trajectory.
What about The Untouchables?
I don't rate that at all.
Despite the Academy award?
That means fuck all. The sympathy vote.
Right. So we all get old and then we can't hack it any more. Is that it?
Yeah.
That's your theory?
Yeah, Beautifully fucking illustrated.
Give me the gun.
Do you see the beast? Have you got it in you sights?
Clear enough, Moneypenny. This should present no significant problem.
I think Allison had been screaming all day, but it hadn't really registered before. She might have been screaming for a week for all I knew. It's been days since I've heard anyone speak, though surely someone must have said something in all that time, surely to fuck someone must have.
What's wrong, Allison?
Oh, fuck. Sick Boy reaches out to Allison.
It wasn't my baby. She wasn't my baby. Baby Dawn. She wasn't mine. Spud's? Swanney's? Sick Boy's? I don't know. Maybe Allison knew. Maybe not. I wished I could think of something to say, something sympathetic, something human.
Say something, Mark, say something 
I'm cooking' up. There is a silence.
Eughh. Sounds horrible.
It wasn't that bad.
Did he  you know?
What?
You know.
No, he didn't make me touch it.
Oh no, don't even mention it.
He made me lick it.
God, you're sick.
And I got a stitch stuck between my teeth, jerked my head back and the whole fucking stump fell off.
Cut it out.
When are you going to visit him?
Don't know. Maybe Thursday.
You're a real mate. And what about Tommy? Have you been to see him yet?
Fuck you. OK, so Tommy's got the virus. Bad news, big deal. The gig goes on, or hadn't you noticed? Swanney fucks his leg up. Well, tough shit, but it could have been worse.
You're all hear.
I know a couple of addicts. Stupid wee lassies. I feed them what they need. A little bit of skag to keep them happy while the punters line up at a fiver a skull. It's easy money for me. Not exactly a fortune, but I'm thinking, 'I should be coining it here.' Less whores, more skag. Swanney's right. Get clean, get into dealing, that's where the future lies. Set up some contacts, get a good load of skag, punt it, profit. What do you think?
Fuck you.
And I'll tell you why. Because I'm fed up to my back teeth with losers, nohopers, draftpacks, schemies, junkies and the like. I'm getting on with life. What are you doing?
I can't believe you did that.
I got a good price for it. Rents, I need the money.
It was my fucking television.
Well, Christ, if I'd known you were going to get so humpty about it, I wouldn't have bothered. Are you going to eat that?
Why?
Well, this guy I've met runs a hotel. Brother. Loads of contacts. Does a nice little sideline in punting British passports to foreigners. Get you a good price.
Why would I want to sell my passport?
It was just an idea.
What?
There's a mate of swanney's. Mikey Forrester  you know the guy. He's come into some gear. A lot of gear.
How much?
About four kilos. So he tells me. Got drunk in a pub down by the docks last week, where he met two Russian sailors. They're fucking carrying the stuff. For sale there and then, like. So he wakes up the next morning, realizes what he's done and get very fucking nervous. Wants rid of this. { He's looking for Swanney to punt it, but Swanney's nowhere to be seen since he lost his leg.  }
So?
So he met me and I offered to take it off his hands at a very reasonable price, with the intention of punting it on myself to a guy I know in London.
So we've just come from Tommy's funeral and you're telling me about a skag deal?
What was your price?
Four Grand.
But you don't have the money?
We're two thousand short.
That's tough.
Come on, Mark, every cunt knows you've been saving up down in London.
Sorry, boys, I don't have two thousand pounds.
Good luck, Spud.
Cheers.
Now remember 
Yeah.
If they think you're not trying, you're in trouble. First hint of that, they'll be on to the DSS, 'This cunt's no trying' and your Giro is fucking finished, right?
Right.
But try too hard 
And you might get the fucking job.
Exactly.
Nightmare.
It's a tightrope, Spud, a fucking tightrope.
My problem is that I tend to clam up. I go dumb and I can't answer any questions at all. Nerves on the big occasion, like a footballer.
Try this.
A little too well, if anything, a little too well, that's my only fear, compadre.
Another dab?
Would not say no, would not say no.
Are you getting out much?
No.
Following the game at all?
No.
No. Me Neither.
You take the test?
Aye.
Clear?
Aye.
That's nice.
I'm sorry, Tommy.
Have you got any gear on you?
No, I'm clean.
Well, sub us, then, mate. I'm expecting a rent cheque.
Thanks, Mark.
No problem. No problem  easy to say when its some other poor cunt with shite for blood.
Morning, Spud. Sit down and have some breakfast.
Sorry about last night 
I'll put the sheets in the washing machine just now.
No, I'll wash them. I'll take them home and bring them back.
There's no need.
It's no problem.
No problem for me either. Honestly, it's no problem.
I'd really rather take care of it myself.
Spud, they're my sheets.
No, actually I went to Craignewton but I was worried that you wouldn't have heard of it so I put the Royal Edinburgh College instead, because they're both schools, right, and we're all in this together, and I wanted to put across the general idea rather than the details, yeah? People get all hung up on details, but what's the point? Like which school? Does it matter? Why? When? Where? Or how many O grades did I get? Could be six, could be one, but that's not important. What's important is that I am, right? That I am.
Mr. Murphy, do you mean that you lied on your application?
Only to get my foot in the door. Showing initiative, right?
You were referred here by the Department of Employment. There's no need for you to get you "foot in the door", as you put it.
Hey. Right. No problem. Whatever you say, man. You're the man, the governor, the dude in the chair, like. I'm merely here. But obviously I am. Here, that is. I hope I'm not talking too much. I don't usually. I think it's all important though, isn't it?
Thank you, Mr. Murphy. We'll let you know.
The pleasure was mine. Best interview I've ever been to. Thanks.
Well, Mr. Renton, I see that you attended the Royal Edinburgh College.
Indeed, yes, those halcyon days.
One of Edinburgh's finest schools.
Oh, yes, indeed. I look back on my time there with great fondness and affection. The debating society, the first eleven, the soft know of willow on leather 
I'm an old boy myself, you know?
Oh, really?
Do you recall the school motto?
Of course, the motto, the motto 
Strive, hope, believe and conquer.
Exactly. Those very words have been my guiding light in what is, after all, a dark and often hostile world.
Tommy, let's put the tape on.
Now?
Yes, I want to watch ourselves while we're screwing.
Fuck, OK.
What do you mean, it's 'gone'? Where has it gone, Tommy?
It'll be here somewhere. I might have returned it by mistake.
Returned it? Where? To the video shop, Tommy? To the fucking video store? So every punter in Edinburgh is jerking off to our video? God, Tommy, I feel sick.
Tommy knew he had the virus, like, but never knew he'd gone fullblown.
What was it, pneumonia or cancer?
No, toxoplasmosis. Sort of like a stroke.
Eh? How's that?
I bet Lizzy told him where to put it.
Exactly. I'm not wanting a cat, she says. Get to fuck, right. So there's Tommy stuck with this kitten. You can imagine what happened. The thing was neglected, pissing and shitting all over the place. Tommy was lying around fucked out of his eyeballs on smack or downers. He didn't know you could get toxoplasmosis from cat shit.
I didn't either. What the fuck is it?
I read it in Cosmopolitan.
It's an interesting theory.
Actually it's a nightmare. I've been desperate for a shag, but watching him suffer was just too much fun. You should try it with Tommy.
What, and deny myself the only pleasure I get from him? Did I tell you about my birthday?
What happened?
He forgot. Useless motherfucker.
Excuse me, I don't mean to harass you, but I was very impressed by the capable and stylish manner in which you dealt with that situation. I thought to myself: she's special.
Thanks.
What's your name?
Diane.
Where are you going, Diane?
I'm going home.
Where's that?
It's where I live.
Great.
What?
I'll come back if you like, but I'm not promising anything.
Do you find that this approach usually works, or, let me guess, you've never tried it before. In fact, you don't normally approach girls, am I right? The truth is that you're a quite, sensitive type but if I'm prepared to take a chance I might just get to know the inner you: witty, adventurous, passionate, loving, loyal, a little bit crazy, a little bit bad, but, hey, don't us girls just love that?
Eh
Well, what's wrong, boy? Cat got your tongue.
think I left something back at the 
Diane.
Ssshh!
Sorry.
Shut up.
Christ, I haven't felt that good since Archie Gemmill scored against Holland in 1978.
Right. You can't sleep here.
What?
Out.
Come on.
No argument. You can sleep on the sofa in the living room, or go home. It's up to you.
Jesus.
And don't make any noise.
I don't see why not.
Because it's illegal.
Holding hands?
No, not holding hands.
In that case you can do it. You were quite happy to do a lot more last night.
And that's what's illegal. Do you know what they do to people like me inside? They'd cut my balls off and flush them down the fucking toilet.
Calm down. You're not going to jail.
Easy for you to say.
Can I see you again?
Certainly not.
What do you want?
Are you clean?
Yes.
Is that a promise, then?
Yes, as a matter of fact, it is.
Calm down, I'm just asking. Is that hash I can smell?
No.
I wouldn't mind a bit, if it is.
Well, it isn't.
Smells like it.
You're too young.
Too young for what?
You're not getting any younger, Mark. The world is changing, music is changing, even drugs are changing. You can't stay in here all day dreaming about heroin and Ziggy Pop.
It's Iggy Pop.
Whatever. I mean, the guy's dead anyway.
Iggy Pop is not dead. He toured last year. Tommy went to see him.
The point is, you've got to find something new.
It's so simple. We buy it at four grand, we punt it at twenty to this guy that Sick Boy knows, and he punts it at sixty. Everyone's happy, everyone's in profit. I put up two. I come away with six.
Unless you get caught.
So long as everyone keeps their mouths shut, we'll not be getting caught.
So why have you told me about it?
Well, you're not going to tell anyone, are you, and besides, I thought we could meet up afterwards, maybe go somewhere together.
I've got a boyfriend, Mark.
What? Steady like?
That's right: 'going steady' for four weeks now.
And what age are you? Thirteen? Fourteen?
Sixteen next month.
Happy birthday.
What do you think  I should be carrying a torch for you?
So, what's he like?
Well, he's young and he's healthy.
And remember, Rents: no skag.
Aye, OK, Fr. But the good times couldn't last for ever.
It's a scandal, Franco.
Too right it is. Now look, have you got anything to eat, 'cos I'm fucking Lee Marvin, by the way.
What?
I've no fucking cigarettes.
Hey, I'm wanting a bet put on.
Can you not go yourself.
I'm a fugitive from the law. I can't be seen on the fucking streets. Now watch my lips. Kempton Park. Twothirty. Five pounds to win. Bad Boy.
I'm no a fucking buftie and that's the end of it.
Let's face it, it could have been wonderful.
Yes, you fucking do. I've seen your statement.
Jesus.
Two thousand, one hundred and thirty three pounds.
Four kilos. That's what  Ten years' worth? Russian sailors? Mikey Forrester? What the fuck are you on these days? You've been to jail, Spud, so what's the deal  like it so much you want to go back again?
This was his nightmare. The dodgiest scam in a lifetime of dodgie scams being perpetrated with three of the most useless and unreliable fuckups in town. I knew what was going on in his mind: any trouble in London and he would dump us immediately, one way or another. He had to. If he got caught with a bagful of skag, on top of that armed robbery shit, he was going down for fifteen to twenty. Begbie was hard, but not so hard that he didn't shite it off twenty years in Saughton.
Did you bring the cards?
Buy yourself that island in the sun?
For four fucking grand? One palm tree, a couple of rocks, and a sewage outflow.
We'll be halfway down the road with the money.
I'd fucking kill you.
I guess you would, Franco.
Cool down, Franco. The guy's sorry.
Not sorry enough for being a fat cunt.
Twenty thousand.
But it's not worth more than fifteen.
Ninteen.
For fuck's sake.
Sorry, mate, I'll get you another.
All down my fucking front, you fucking idiot.
Look, I'm sorry, I didn't mean it.
Sorry's no going to dry me off, you cunt.
I want the money, Mark, that's all.
If everyone keeps their mouth shut, there'll be no one going to jail.
I don't know, maybe I'll buy something for my ma, and then buy some good speed, no bicarb like, then get a girl, take her out like, and treat her  properly.
Shag her senseless.
No, I don't mean like that  I mean something nice, like, that's all 
You daft cunt. If you're going to waste it like that, you might as well leave it all to me. Now get the drinks in.
Shut you mouth or you'll be next.
You've stabbed me, man.
You were in my way.
Did you tell him?
No. On you go.
What?
The cards. The last thing I said to you was mind the cards.
Well, I've not brought them.
It's fucking boring after a while without the cards.
Well, I've not brought them.
It's fucking boring after a while without the cards.
I'm sorry.
Bit fucking late, like.
Well, why didn't you bring them?
Because I fucking told you to do that, you doss cunt.
Christ.
OK. Same again?
I'm off for a pish. When I come back, that money's still here, OK?
I'll be right after you.
You'll never catch us, you flabby bastard. Right, see, when I come back 
What do we do? Okay. Fuckedup Bowman's turning blue. Doctor. We need a doctor.
Your dad's a doctor. Call him 
He's a research doctor. You're dad's a doctor, too 
What kind of research?
Mapping the fucking pig genome. We'll call your dad, he's a neurosurgeon 
It's three a.m. I'm not supposed to be here. I snuck out 
Who are these guys?
Agents who died in the field.
He died in a liposuction surgery, right?
Right. Now it's used by somebody from the Juarez Cartel, one of his lieutenants... Who knows? Every damn day there's birthday party. At first I thought they must have three hundred children, then I realized they're taunting us. Three miles away and we can't touch them. Ha, ha, ha.
Who do we interface with on their side?
What do you mean?
I mean, who runs interdiction on the Mexico side?
I don't know. I don't think there's any one person. See the problem is the Juarez cartel owns everything and everybody, all the property on the Mexican side, sometimes all the property on both sides. Warehouses, transportation, even tunnels. It's very organized.
I just want to be clear about one thing. I used to work for him, but now I work for you. I'm not a partisan person, I'm an issue person. In the next few weeks, if you allow me, we'll get you wellversed on an incredible array of issues. The most important of which, in my opinion, being Mexico. I know everybody that you're gonna meet. It's important that they like you. It's not important that they like me. That's why I can help protect you.
Like you protected Landry?
I see where you're going with that, but if I could just say something, which is basically that a guy like Landry is so autocratic he doesn't know how to let himself be helped; it's a point of pride to take every bullet, no matter who fired it, or whether it was even aimed at him, which personally I think it very selfdefeating. Now, don't get me wrong, he's a man of enormous integrity, but there's a political component to this job that the General just didn't have any patience for.
Hello.
I'm sorry... Did I wake you?
Salazar's been taken down. He was working for Porfirio Madrigal.
What? I thought Madrigal was dead. I thought it was verified.
Apparently not. Look, it's a shit storm here right now. When are you coming back? I don't know what to tell people any more.
I'll get there as soon as I can.
If we're moving the press conference, we need to do it now. Are you all right?
I recruited the best men in Mexico for my task force and put them through a rigorous screening process. Not only physical, but also psychological.
I'd like to bring you up to Washington, walk you around our side of things, and share some of the information we've been able to develop on your cartels.
That would be very helpful to me. Also, I received the offer from DEA and the FBI to train some of my men at Quantico. I think this will be extremely useful, a good way for us to absorb some of your methods.
You've been making very good progress against the Tijuana cartel.
Yes, I am confident that Juan Obregon will be taken into custody before the end of the year. But, you must understand that it is very difficult because of corruption in the police force. We get a tip that he is one place, then we get there and he is already gone, having been warned by someone on our side.
Hopefully the exchange of training methods and information between our countries will help with this problem.
Yes, I hope so as well.
Let me ask you a related question. We've talked about the supply side, but what about demand? What is your policy for treating addiction?
Addicts treat themselves... they overdose and then there's one less to worry about.
She's not at that place you sent her?
She snuck away. And we haven't seen her. She hasn't come home.
Oh, man 
She hasn't called you?
I tried to talk to her when she was up there, but they wouldn't put me through. I'm surprised she hasn't called.
Can you tell me anything? Do you have any ideas?
I don't know what to say.
I'm not the police. I don't care about experimentation. She's a kid. I'm worried to death.
You won't say anything to my parents?
I don't give a fuck about your parents 
We sometimes went downtown to score.
What?
The West End. We buy it off the streets. I can stop, you know, and she can't. Two people, really similar, we can talk about anything, but for me it's like a weekend thing, then I get my shit together, and for her it's different 
You don't know what the hell you're talking about. You're a cocky seventeen yearold and you don't have a clue what the stakes are. You don't know the value of the life you've yet to throw away. And neither does she.
Hey man, I'm sorry. I'm just trying to help.
You want to help? Stay the fuck away from her.
I don't know, maybe we missed her.
I can't believe you used to bring my daughter here, to this place.
Hey man, back the fuck up. To this place. What's that shit? Right now, all over this country, a hundred thousand white people from the suburbs are driving around downtown asking every black person they see, You got any drugs? You know where I can get drugs? What kind of effect you think this has on the psyche of a black person, on their possibilities? If you sent a hundred thousand black people into your neighborhood, Indian Hills, and they asked every white person they saw, hey, you got any drugs?, within a day, your friends and their kids would be selling. It's market forces, man. The product's marked up three hundred percent. You can go out on the street and make five hundred bucks in two hours and then do whatever you want for the rest of the day. You think white people would still be going to law school?
I'm looking for my daughter, Caroline. She comes here.
This is a business. Get the fuck outta here.
I need to find my daughter. I'll pay you.
Who the fuck do you think you are? Where the fuck do you think you are? Why the fuck do you think I shouldn't just put you in a dumpster?
I have money 
I got money.
I'll pay you a thousand dollars. I have it in my wallet.
I want your money, I'll take your money.
Just tell me where she is.
The busiest land border crossing in the world. Over fortyone thousand vehicles per day, twentytwo thousand pedestrians on foot. I think we do a pretty good job but we know a lot of drugs are still getting through.
Any idea how much?
I've read official estimates but I wouldn't bet my house on them. I've heard the entire cocaine supply for the United States can fit into four tractortrailers. At least a halfdozen of those cars right out there are carrying a load of dope, with drivers employed by people who don't give a damn if they're caught or not.
What do you look for?
We ask questions and measure the answers. When something doesn't ring true, a fact that doesn't make sense, a slight hesitation, then it's off to secondary for a closer look. Before NAFTA we had about 1.9 million trucks a year. Now it's almost double. Pretty soon there'll be Mexican truck companies that will have as much freedom in crossing the border as American truck companies.
Any way we can do it better?
Sure. More money in intelligence on their side of the border. So we have a better idea who we're looking for. More dogs. More people. Supposed to be getting some giant x ray machines to run the trucks through. Outside of martial law that's about the best you're gonna do. But, I should tell you, there are two things that really have us on edge right now. In the last six months seizures have tripled, even though we're pulling over the same number of cars. What does that tell you?
That triple the amount of stuff is going through.
Right. But, that's not the biggest problem. One of our Intel officers picked up information from DEA that traffickers have come up with a process, a chemical process, to turn coke into something else. It doesn't smell like coke. It doesn't look like coke. And what's worse, it doesn't react to field test. It could be anything. Maybe it's already happening. I mean, how would we know?
My work keeps me young.
Which part, getting terrorists loose on bail or freeing convicted murderers on technicalities?
The worst serial killer in history  who? Gacy  right? Killed forty two people. Our government killed fifty thousand in Vietnam and lied about it every day.
Michael, you represent drug dealers, not civil libertarians.
We kidnapped Noriega out of Panama. Is that covered in your Constitution? Because it isn't in mine.
Noriega is a criminal.
Noriega was head of a sovereign nation who made the mistake of doing business with the U.S. Government. So, no, I don't have a problem waking up every day and fighting our government, fighting people like you, trying to keep this system a little bit honest.
Last I read your clients were chopping people up with chainsaws and delivering illegal narcotics into this country.
I hope when you were on the bench, Judge Wakefield, you didn't handle the presumption of innocence in the same fashion.
If I ever return to the bench, Counselor Adler, I hope I have the pleasure of hearing your arguments.
The cocaine brand, 911, is an East Coast brand, a Juarez Cartel brand, and you must know it usually comes through into El Paso?
I'm aware of that.
So what's it doing in Tijuana?
Let me ask you a hypothetical question: if Salazar worked for Madrigal and the Juaraz cartel, and he went out of power, would it mean the Juarez Cartel is losing influence?
It could mean that, yes.
That would probably mean the Tijuana Cartel is gaining power?
It's possible.
Is it possible to have a Drug Czar in Mexico who isn't connected in some war to one of the cartels?
What's your name?
Javier Rodriguez.
Well, Javier Rodriguez, you've done a very good job, but we'll take care of it from here.
One question. How did you find about this?
An informant.
What is the name of your informant?
It was an anonymous tip.
That's your past. I want to talk about your future. Would you be willing to do something for me?
If I can.
I'm trying to bust the Tijuana Cartel.
What is it you want me to do?
A small thing. Nothing really.
Does this offer include my partner?
Only if he can be trusted.
He'll do what I say.
I'm curious how you did this with such economy.
Everybody has a weakness.
You watch and learn. I earn his trust. Then more pain. Then I appear with kindness. Within a week he will follow me around like a dog.
But will he be housetrained?
When he loves me like a father, he will never tell anyone he was here. He will freely give the names of his superiors. Then we get them and they too will give us names. And eventually somebody will get us to Juan Obregon and the cartel will fall.
Somewhere safe.
Where?
A place we have, that we know is protected.
No.
It's important that we work together. Mexico. America. One hand washing the other.
We agree.
So... maybe you tell me about your informants in our operations.
We thought maybe you'd have that kind of information for us.
This is a very different proposition.
You should feel good about this.
I feel like a traitor.
Wasn't that General Salazar?
Yeah.
What's he doing up here?
I don't know. Something.
Relax. If they were going to kill us they would have done it in the desert.
They wouldn't do it in front of all these people. They'd send someone later, when we're alone.
If you want her to stay out of it, then stop telling her everything. You should learn how to keep a secret.
She's nosy. She hears me on the telephone.
Anyway, I don't think we'll ever see them again. Everything's back to normal.
Please. Filing a report will not help you find your car.
The police won't find your car.
This is fucking crazy. Instead of killing us, he sends us on a suicide mission. Do you know who Frankie Flowers is? He's a psychocokehead hitman. A faggot. He's killed fucking who knows how many people. You'd need half the force to get close to him. And you can't get their help because he lives in fucking San Diego.
Then I guess I'm going by myself.
A group of us are going out tonight.
Who?
Guzman, Tomas, Esteban 
Your new friends.
Yeah. It should be fun. You wanna come?
Not this time.
It's no problem. I was just with everybody we work with.
Oh, really. General Salazar was there?
No, but a lot of other people. You should come. You should come out with us.
Go home. Get cleaned up. Get to work. Salazar is heading down to Mexico City next week and I'm not getting left behind. Don't fuck this up.
Madrigal's alive.
What?
Porfirio Madrigal is not dead. I just saw him.
Javi! Come on. Don't pull this you don't care bullshit. This is incredible information. It must be. Javi 
We keep our mouths shut.
Yes, he threatened to kill my five yearold son. I was under the impression I would be meeting Juan Obregon.
No, this is not possible. And I thank you for coming down here, though I suspect it's been a pointless journey.
Why do you say that, Mr. Marquez?
I hear these stories. Your husband in jail. His business in chaos. Various people fighting over the scraps.
My husband is the victim of an informer in your organization, not ours.
That is not true, Mrs. Ayala. Your route is compromised. Perhaps it is time for me to deal with other distributors in California.
I don't think you're going to do that.
You don't? Listen to this woman in a man's world, a very violent world.
There are plenty of other suppliers in Mexico.
But not in whose interest it is to help you out of debt.
My husband had been working on something he called, The Project for the Children. Are you aware of this?
I don't know. Perhaps I remember something.
We have the ability to change the color, odor, and physical property of cocaine.
You want to smuggle narcotics in Mr. Espastico Jacobo. That's nothing new.
Not in...
Every part, from his ears to his accessory belt, is highimpact, pressuremolded cocaine. Odorless. Undetectable by dogs. Undetectable by anyone.
I don't believe you.
You first.
I'm six months pregnant. I won't do it.
Fine, then we don't have deal.
Fine, then we don't have a deal.
That's good coke.
It should be... It's yours. I want our debt forgiven. I want to be the exclusive distributor of Obregon Brothers Cocaine for the United States. And I want the principle witness against my husband, Eduardo Ruiz, killed.
Perhaps... Perhaps... I'm afraid I must first ask you to pass a test. I asked the same of your husband and he succeeded with flying colors.
Take this back with you. Deliver it safely to Tigrillo in San Diego and we have a deal.
That's crazy. My husband is on trial for smuggling.
Exactly, and this is how I know I'm not getting into business with the U.S. Government.
You will help me with my other problem.
Deliver that safely to Tigrillo in San Diego. And we have a deal.
I want to know who is responsible for this treatment.
Yes, sir!
We aren't barbarians.
Yes, sir!
Bring this man a change of good clothes. Has he eaten?
I don't know, sir.
You will dine with me from now on.
So, it's worth the wait, right? What can I do? Rent a Huey? Have an airlift? It's not like you can put it in a condom up some mule's asshole, right? How many peasants would that take? A line stretching from here to Mexico City 
Nobody said shit, Eduardo 
You planning on going somewhere, Eduardo? You don't like it here? This is the best situation you're going to have for a long, long time.
I am a legitimate business. Fishing boats. Tuna. Check it out. Tax records, everything 
Listen you motherfucker, you tried to kill me with a fucking cannon.
You can't visit me here. I want my lawyer.
The amount of coke we got on you means capital punishment in some states.
One chance here, Eduardo. Make us believe you got a boss. No boss, it's all on you.
It's a death sentence. I'll never make it to the trial.
We can protect you.
Carlos, I mean Carl, started out in the family connection business: real estate in Tijuana, fishing boats out of Ensenada, hydroponic raspberries. He met up with the Obregon brothers of the Tijuana Cartel who were interested in two things: entering society and using his fishing boats.
So you pay off our customs officials?
In Mexico law enforcement is an entrepreneurial activity, this is not so true for the USA. Using regression analysis we made a study of the customs lanes at the border and calculated the odds of a search. The odds are not high, and we found variables that reduce the odds. We hire drivers with nothing to lose. Then we throw a lot of product at the problem. Some get stopped. Enough get through. It's not difficult.
This attitude's not gonna help him any, is it?
I got greedy. I decided to bring a little in on my own and somebody tipped you off. That was my mistake. Carl would never be so stupid.
He hired you. That was a mistake.
Carl and I were friends from childhood. He was loyal, that's not a mistake.
This is ridiculous. Why is there no elevator?
When the DEA gets into the narcotics business, then we'll stay at the Four Seasons.
You expect me to be grateful for spending the rest of my life looking over my shoulder.
That thought makes me feel awful.
Can't you for a second imagine none of this had happened? That my drugs had gone through. What would have been the harm? A few people get high who are getting high anyway. Your partner is still alive. We avoid having breakfast together. Don't you see this means nothing? That your whole life is pointless?
You're breaking my heart.
The worst thing about you, Monty, is you realize the futility of what you're doing and you do it anyway. I wish you could see how transparent you are. This food tastes like shit.
So go shower already.
You only got to me because you were tipped off by the Juarez Cartel, who's trying to break into Tijuana. You're helping them. You work for a drug dealer too, Monty.
Yes.
I'm on a special phone, may I speak freely?
You may speak.
I have a job for you and I don't have much time.
You were followed by the police, but they won't hear us over the children. I want to use a bomb.
You're kidding. Can't you shoot him or something?
I don't really like guns. You shoot someone in the head three times and some doctor will keep them alive.
When will you do it?
I don't know. Eduardo Ruiz is the only real witness against Carl. The security is very tight. There may not be a way.
There's always a way. If people get to the Pope or the President, you can get to him.
They're going to walk right past me.
What are you? A mouse? Get out of the car and do it. This is your chance.
I'll put this in the back.
No 
All the professionals keep them in the trunk.
Not Tiger Woods.
Especially Tiger Woods. ...Actually, he keeps his on the back seat.
David 
We're playing!
Women's room, stall two. Should we stop for icecream?
Yeah!
What do you think it is?
Depends who it's from.
Your friends at Warren, Putnam and Hudson.
You can learn a lot about somebody from this stuff. Three categories: you like me, you hate me, you want something from me. Definitely third category.
What would a law firm want from the new drug Czar?
Depends on the state.
Arizona.
Medicinal marijuana initiative. Or am I being cynical?
No telltales. Nothing to read. Not touching my face. Not even blinking. No giveaways. How're you feeling?
I feel good.
No more pissant basin league bullshit for us, hunh?
Nope.
Chill out 
It's a funny fuckin' joke and it's quick. Why do women wear makeup and perfume?
Move 'em to Texas, fry 'em up.
We got you on tape making the deal. We got you bragging about the quality. We got you bragging about your business. We got you.
That's a big word for a fisherman.
Who do you work for?
They're whispering. I can't hear them, but I know it. I smell conspiracy. I feel the lie vibrating out of the home.
She ain't in on it.
I have dreams about this, actual dreams about busting the top people, the rich people, the white people.
I'm telling you, she doesn't know shit.
She knows Arnie Metzger.
So does half of San Diego.
You want to make a wager on this?
You should see little Montel play. Little Montel is the next Maradona.
Maradona is a cokehead. Hand of God, my ass. We're wasting our time here.
He won. He was a winner. That bothers you.
Winners don't do coke. Or haven't you been reading the bumper stickers?
Are you getting this on tape?
I love my job. I love it. The next time I'm having a bad day you gotta remind me of right now and I'll get over it.
What do we do?
I don't know.
What do you think she wants?
She's your girlfriend. Open it, talk about your kids.
Remember when we sat on that mob guy, that chef, for like six months?
Oh, man, I've never eaten so good in my life. Why don't you develop a useful skill?
Yeah, like turning into a beautiful woman.
What are you doing?
Just watch.
Inhale the smoke and hold it.
What is this, like freebase?
Not like. It is.
Ach, that's what I'm talking about. Sarcasm. Always fucking sarcasm. You're afraid and you think if you admit it people will think you're weak or won't like you 
We live our lives by these unspoken rules that are handed to us.
Are you kidding... I'm staying with you 
He's gonna fucking die right here on the kitchen floor 
You know my dad takes eight red cold pills every day? He and my mom have cocktail hour every night, from six to seven, set your clock, two bourbons 
Maybe we could show up and smoke a little rock with them to unwind 
Yeah, then some dope to take the edge off at the end of a long day.
Have you done your homework, honey?
Yes, mom 
Then here's a little bump.
Did Courtney Love play Nancy in Syd and Nancy?
I think so. If she didn't she should have. I've only got maybe an hour. Then volleyball practice is over and I have to be home.
Why? Nobody's there.
...How old are you?
Sixteen
Live with your parents?
Yes.
Parents still together?
Yes.
Do you work?
I volunteer. I read to blind people. One day a week for two hours.
In school?
Cincinnati Country Day.
Private?
Yeah.
How are your grades?
I'm third in my class.
What's that mean?
I get A's. All A's.
You do? What else you do?
I'm a National Merit Finalist. I'm on the HiQ team and the Math team. I'm in the Spanish Club. I'm a Thespian. I'm VicePresident of my class. I'm on the volleyball team.
What's it like? Imagine you're being accosted by a swarm of beggars in the heart of Calcutta, except the beggars are wearing $1500 suits and they don't say "please" or "thank you."
What about legalizing everything? Has anybody talked about that?
Fine  legalization. Okay, forgetting all of our international trade agreements, legalize everything today. The Government inserts itself into all drug transactions. The U.S. becomes a giant pharmacy. Our borders are mobbed, lines of people from here to Europe wanting to smoke, snort and shoot themselves into oblivion.
What if every country legalized at the same time?
Somehow, I don't see that happening.
As it happens, the President of the United States, my new boss, the leader of the free world, has me penciled in for some "face time".
Will we get invited to the White House?
I don't know.
How long's the job?
It's a presidential appointment so... until I quit or get fired.
Where is it? Where are the drugs? Where are they?
Fuck you. I wasn't doing anything. You're like the Gestapo.
Okay, young lady, that's it.
Like I give a fuck.
What is wrong with you? What? You're going away. You're getting help somewhere.
You can't make me.
Oh, yes I can.
Hi.
Hi.
What's up?
Just watching you.
I got that. How was your day?
You all right?
I keep feeling like I'm forgetting something.
How's David?
How's David? How's David? He's terrific, Carl.
Helena 
We watched his father get dragged away by federal agents. I don't even know how to begin to tell him where you are or when you're coming back... Or if you're coming back.
We'll get through this, I promise. I'll make it up to you 
How? Supportive letters from prison while I'm being kicked out of our home? Do you have any idea what is happening out here? Our credit cards are maxed. The people at the bank, you should see their faces when I walk in there. I have a letter from the government telling me that anything I sell from our house will be taken against an income tax lien. Our friends are behaving like the crowd at a public hanging. Nobody will help us. Nobody will take us in. Nobody wants anything to do with us. So tell me, Carl, how you're gonna make it up to me. Tell me again how we'll get through this, and maybe while you're at it you can put your hand up against the glass so we can have a tender moment of connection.
Helena 
Tell me what to do, Carl. I need guidance, not a fucking platitude. I'm not bringing a child into the kind of life I grew up with. I won't do it. I want our life back.
Did you meet the President?
Honey, your father knows the President.
Czar for life, just like a real czar.
That makes mom the Czarina. I'm a Czarette. Like Anastasia.
None of my friends can fucking believe my dad is the actual Drug Czar.
Caroline 
Sorry, but I mean, come on.
Did you tell Dad?
Not yet.
Are you going to?
I don't know.
Is this bad for him?
What do you think?
He didn't hang around us. He's like one of those hippie kids. I'm not part of that group. It was a party in all these rooms. His girlfriend who I barely know was completely hysterical... He's blue, he's puking... We didn't want to get in trouble, but what were we supposed to do? I mean, what would you have done if you had been us?
How well do you know this boy, Seth, who was driving? You know the police have charged him with a DUI and possession of marijuana.
He's a friend. He's also like the only one who was dealing with the situation. He'd definitely had a few beers, but it's not like he wanted to drive. We didn't know what else to do. It wasn't my pot.
Like a Grateful Dead Concert.
Drugs begin pouring out of America into every other country in the world. Canada is completely overwhelmed.
So you know we put the case before the arbitration panel, none of whom had any expertise. Superfund is just one of those words. People stop paying attention.
That's frustrating.
It's so frustrating.
I think she's lying.
Me, too.
We'll ground her, clip her wings a bit. School and scheduled activities and that's it until further notice. This has to be handled delicately. Dan Kelly, in the District Attorney's office, will probably help us out, quietly. Christ, this could be embarrassing.
Honey, this is difficult, but we've all had our moments. I tried 
Stop. You experimented in college. I don't want to hear about that.
Should we take the quotes off experiment and call it what it is?
This is different.
Why?
To begin with, she's only sixteen yearsold.
I think she has to find out for herself, on her own. We have to allow her space 
Space for what? To O.D. like that other kid? I will not send the message that this type of behavior is okay with her parents. Because it isn't. Correct?
We don't want to push her away. These are growing experiences.
How long have you known?
Six months. I found some marijuana, that's all. And a little pipe about two inches long. I talked with her. She said her friends smoked pot and drank 
Explain to me how you could think that I shouldn't know about this. Explain to me how this wouldn't be relevant to me. As a parent.
She asked me not to.
I think we may have found our Mexican Drug Czar. It's this General, Salazar. At least I'll have somebody on the other side I can talk to.
Does this mean you're going to be gone more?
You might want to pencil in a little facetime with your daughter.
Barbara 
Because I'm at the edge of my capabilities, Robert.
The first thing we have to do is present a unified front.
If you start in on the war metaphors I'm going to drive this car into a fucking telephone pole.
Look, I'm as worried as you are 
No, I don't think so. Leave me alone, give me money. That's what I get from our daughter. She has a way of shutting me out that seems very familiar.
Yeah, well, she has a way of self medicating that probably seems familiar, too.
I'm not the one who has to have three scotches just to walk in the door and say hello.
I have a drink before dinner to take the edge off my day. That's different.
Oh, it is?
Yeah, because the alternative is to be bored to death.
Should we bring the police into this?
No, not yet.
About the other night, I'm sorry.
Me, too.
God, I don't get it. Are we supposed to say to ourselves, be prepared to lose her, be prepared to lose our child? Why does this happen to someone? How does it happen?
I don't know.
My Leica's gone.
So's the video camera.
At least she's alive.
Where are you going?
She'll be at a pawn shop in an hour.
It's Saturday, Arnie. You work too hard.
Carl, I'm running late. I'm coming right now 
Don't bother.
What?
So Arnie, when were you going to tell me about the 3 million dollars we got in from San Francisco two days after I got arrested?
I was just waiting for the right time.
And you didn't feel like you could trust my wife with this news?
I just didn't want to take a chance. I didn't want to risk it. It could have been frozen along with everything else.
You had it all figured out. You move into my house. You raise my kids. You sleep with my wife. It was a good plan, Arnie.
Carl, that's insane.
So my wife is lying?
Carl, think about it, if I was trying to rip you off, I would have left town after Ruiz was killed. I wouldn't sit next to you in court listening to the dismissal.
Arnie, do think there's a difference between a reason and an excuse, because I don't think there is.
Carl 
Goodbye Arnie.
Helena, I'm so sorry 
Arnie, thank God.
I understand. You're upset. You want to know what's going on. That's good.
Why are you talking like that?
Listen to me carefully. First of all, Carl isn't here. DEA's got him and they'll hang on to him until arraignment, which will probably be tomorrow. So here you're wasting your time. Are you with me?
Good. From now on I want you to expect that every word you utter will be taperecorded, that the movement of your lips is being read. Got it?
Arnie, this is crazy.
Got it? Good. Do not discuss anything over the telephone. Do not talk to the neighbors. Stay out of your yard.
What is he being charged with?
I don't know, but under no circumstances would I talk about it here. I want you to go home and relax the best you can. Continue your life as if nothing has happened. That is very important.
Arnie, I feel like Alice stepping through the looking glass.
That's a very apt analogy, Helena. Now, go home and be with your children.
I am on the board of my son's school. I had a fundraiser for A.L.V. in my front yard. I have a right to know if my husband is a legitimate businessman.
Of course he is. I've known him for twenty years and he doesn't jaywalk...
If all our assets are frozen and our "sales force" has scattered... How am I supposed to survive? I'm giving birth in three months. How do I get through this?
You're gonna get through it, but the first thing we do is get Michael Adler to represent Carl. We get Adler and we beat this thing.
How much do I pay him?
I suspect he'll accept his payment in publicity.
This place is swept twice a day. I learned that in Miami in '85. Then the U.S. shut down the whole Caribbean, but it's a big game of wackamole. Knock it down in Miami, it pops up here. And San Diego is so much more relaxing.
Arnie, I need money. Somebody threatened my children. They want a first payment of three million dollars.
Helena, if I had it I would give it to you, but I don't have that kind of money.
Arnie, help me. Doesn't anyone owe us money?
Yes, I told you before, there are people who owe you money but they're not paying. There's too much heat on Carl.
Please. Tell me who Carl sells to.
Even if I knew I wouldn't tell you. You do not want to come into contact with these people. Only Carl knows who they are. That's his real asset. Ruiz doesn't know them. They don't know Ruiz. Church and State.
What about legitimate businesses? We own a construction concern, real estate 
Laundromats for the washing of money. Unfortunately, Carl had only one successful business.
Don't you have some good news? Isn't there something positive you could say.
Sometimes I wonder what I'll do if Carl doesn't get out. I'm not very adept at being on my own. I've always had a man in my life. Always.
I remember when I first met you: little Helen Watts from the wrong side of somewhere. I had a feeling even then that your survival instincts were pretty well honed.
I'm glad you think so, but I'm picturing a debtridden, thirtytwo yearold mother whose exhusband is being compared to Pablo Escobar. And I'm wondering who would want to be with someone like that?
That was a stupid thing you did. Incredibly stupid.
I tried, Arnie. And, I will continue to try.
Have you gone crazy? You are not Carl. You aren't as good as Carl. They are moving the trial to a high security location. The press has gone berserk. The jury will be influenced. Stay out of things. Let us try to win the case.
That is going to be rather difficult when all the evidence is against us.
Helena, please. This is out of your hands.
I know I made things worse. I know that and I'm sorry, but Arnie I need something from you. Something only you can help me with.
Helena 
I need an introduction to the Obregon Brothers.
I can't do that.
Did you get it?
What are you thinking, calling me at home with a message like that? You've compromised me and our relationship 
It's the same stuff? From the rainy day stash?
It's the same. What happened to what they gave you?
Even if that were true, they're not going to come to your house where you're waiting for them.
He's right. They'll do it when you're walking somewhere, make it look like street crime.
Anna. What's wrong? What do you want?
I can't find Manolo.
He's not here.
He never came home last night. Was he with you?
No.
What? What is it?
It's very hard for me to come and tell you this.
Why does he need money?
He has debts. He has gambling debts. He owes a lot of money.
How much?
Nine thousand dollars.
What is he planning on telling them?
Well, you know, he's going to say about Madrigal... and Salazar.
If Manolo hadn't gone and told them what he did then Salazar and Madrigal would never have been brought to justice. He did a great thing for Tijuana. He did a great thing for Mexico.
I want to believe you. I really do.
You will believe me, because it's true.
I appreciate you coming in so early.
Judge Wakefield, it's an honor to handle it for you. Consider it gone away. She's a minor; it probably would've expunged on her 18th birthday anyway.
Still, this was a sensitive issue for me and I wanted to thank you personally.
Like I said, open container, P.I., Misdemeanor possession. Easy to make it disappear. For you, poof, it's gone.
One thing bothers me... That kid they dropped off had coke and heroin in him. Serious amounts. He's lucky he lived. So I gotta ask: what's your daughter on?
I don't know what you mean.
I mean, did you ask her? What kind of drugs has she tried?
I... I don't really know.
Is she in any kind of therapy... professional help?
No, of course not. She's one of the top students at her school.
Well, I hope it stays that way.
I'm Melanie.
You're late for breakfast.
Did you do this?
Victoria 
What? Did you let that child play with one of my toys? I don't like children playing with my toys. Have to fix you up with another hammer, won't we. Give her a saucepan to play with, that'll do.
You're well built; how old are you?
Sixteen. Well, nearly sixteen.
I wanted my Leda to be a little girl. Leda and the swan. See?
Oh no you can't. Get on with the painting.
It's all right, Finn.
'Have ploughed the stormy seas  '
Storms?
They're going to fly everywhere. Mean things. They should have taken us.
We're too young.
I'm not too young. Juliet was my age.
Juliet who?
In the play. She was married, by my age. And Mummy. Mummy wasn't much older than me when she got married. Well, not <i>that</i> much older.
You'll need to know who we are, we're the brothers of his wife, which makes us in an unsanctified kind of way, your uncles. Me name is Finn, me brother is called Francie 
But you're Irish!
There's no law, as I know of, to prevent it.
You'll put your clothes here.
There's no mirror.
There's not.
I can manage.
Excuse me.
He's a pyjama case, really.
Do you know you've lovely hair, even if you torment it in those braids.
I like plaits.
You're spoiling your pretty looks. Come here.
Curled up on the landing like love locked out!
I did like the music.
I carried you up to your bed.
He can't abide a woman in trousers. He says a woman in trousers is a sin against nature.
A sin against <i>what?</i>
Slip up and change into a skirt, else he'll create something terrible. Don't you want to make a good impression on your first day?
Is there anything else I should know about him?
Speak when you're spoken to. He likes his women quiet.
I saw his teeth in the bathroom.
He can take out his smile and keep it on a shelf, but, his bite is worse than his bark, isn't that so, old fellow?
Mummy was scared of him, I think. He went to her wedding but he was <i>furious</i>, you can see it in the photograph.
She got away.
He made that. In his off hours.
It's as though he'd trapped a real cuckoo inside.
Didn't you know he made things?
Don't fret. It's only his dream. Dreams aren't catching, not like measles.
I didn't know about the puppets. It's a lot to take in, all at once.
I want to go home.
Home is where the heart is.
I can't go home because there's no home left.
She's not accustomed to being ignored.
She'll have to learn.
What about school?
What was <i>that</i> in aid of?
Get away from me...
That's your beach. This is the story. Leda walks by the shore, gathering shells. Night comes on. She hears the beating of great wings and sees the approach of the swan. She runs away but it bears down and casts her to the ground. Curtain.
Is that all?
Ah, you should see the swan! His masterpiece. Now, walk along the beach and stoop to pick up the shell.
Finn, there's a splinter in your left foot. If you don't let me take the splinter out, it will fester.
Go away.
What did I do wrong?
I won't do it because he wants me to do it, even if I want to do it.
Do what? Oh, I see.
You're only a young thing.
You're not so old yourself!
Living with him put years on me.
Who's there?
Let me in.
Can I come into bed with you for a little while, I feel terrible.
Well ... yes. All right. But 
Ah, come on now!
Would you mind holding me in your arms for a little while?
Finn 
I'm cold.
You <i>are</i> cold. Where have you been?
I finished it off.
You did what?
He'll murder you when he finds out.
He'll be looking for another apprentice.
I hope he doesn't pick on Jonathon.
Can you move over a wee bit?
The swan was so ridiculous. All the same, it did scare me.
Almighty Jove in the shape of a swan.
Stop it!
I've got a present for you...
Finn ...
In my pocket.
Reprieve.
I know for a fact he didn't take Jonathon. Jonathon went off by himself.
Somebody couldn't wait until dark.
H'm?
Nothing ... You shouldn't have given Victoria that Guinness.
It was only a mouthful!
Do you think we should take her up to bed?
I thought she was fondest of you, because you were the youngest.
Did you now.
Surely she is older?
What difference does <i>that</i> make?
How long has 
All the time.
I already lost everything once.
So did I.
But then I had a brother and a sister left.
So had I.
Everything is gone, now.
Nothing is left but us.
Hey, Slinky?
Right here, Woody!
I'm red this time.
No, Slink 
Oh...well alright, you can be red if you want.
Not now, Slink. I've got some bad news.
Bad news?!
Shhhhh!!
Just gather everyone up for a staff meeting and be happy!!
Got it.
Woody, what are you doing under the bed?
Uhhhh...nothing! Uh, nothing. I'm sure Andy was just a little excited, that's all. Too much cake and ice cream, I suppose. It's just a mistake.
Heh, heh, heh! Golly bob howdy 
Oh, shut up! In a couple of days, everything will be just the way it was. They'll see... they'll see. I'm still Andy's favorite toy.
Woody?!
We're gonna get outta here, Buzz  Buzz?
Boy, am I glad to see you guys!
I knew you'd come back, Woody!
Ha, ha, oh, I love you, too.
See? It is Buzz. Now give back the lights, Potato Head.
Woody! Speed up!
Speed up!
I can't hold on much longer!
Slink! Hang on!
Yessss! Ah, ha, ha, ha...
Uhoh.
Oh, no...it's a Combat Carl.
Just stay where you are, Corporal! Don't move, Carl. You'll blow up. I know you're tired! I know your leg is cramping, but you can't move. Do you hear me?
This is ludicrous.
SID +++$+++
Not now, Mom, I'm BUSY!
Sid!!!
Reach for the sky!!
Huh?
This town ain't big enough for the two of us!
What?!
Somebody's poisoned the water hole...
It's busted.
Wwwwe?
That's right. Your toys.
Uh, hey Sarge, have you seen Slinky?
Sir! No Sir!
Okay, thank you. At ease.
Sargent. Establish a recon post downstairs. Code red. You know what to do.
Yes SIR!
Come in, Mother Bird, this is Alpha Bravo.
This is it! This is it! Quiet, quiet, quiet!
Come in, Mother Bird. Alright...Andy's opening the first present now.
Okay, we're on the last present now...
Last present!
It's a big one...It's a...it's a boardgame! Repeat! Battleship  Battleship, the boardgame!
Mission accomplished. Well done, men. Pack it up, we're going home.
So did I tell ya? Huh? Nothing to worry about.
There.
Juvenile intrusion! Repeat! Resume your positions NOW!
Andy's coming, everybody! Back to your places. Hurry!
Buzz. Buzz Lightyear. You are not worried, are you?
I can't quite make out 
They're getting bigger.
Wait! There's a nice little one over there!
What the heck is up there?
Woody? Who's up there with you?
It's Sid!
I thought he was at summer camp!
We believe you, Woody. Right, Rex?
Oh, I don't like confrontations.
It's too short! We need more monkeys!
There aren't any more! That's the whole barrel.
I got it, Woody!
He got it, Woody!
ROOAAAARR!!!
Oh, how ya doin', Rex?
Were you scared? Tell me honestly.
I was close to being scared that time.
C'mon, guys! Every Christmas and birthday we go through this.
But what if Andy gets another dinosaur? A mean one? I just don't think I can take that kind of rejection.
Hey, listen, no one's getting replaced. This is Andy we're talking about.
If I send out the troops, will you all calm down?
Yes! Yes! We promise!
Okay, save your batteries!
Shouldn't they be there by now? What's taking them so long?!
Hey, these guys are professionals. They're the best. C'mon, they're not lying down on the job.
Ha ha. That's very funny, Buzz. This is serious!!
Hey, Woody!? Where'd ya go?
Hi ya, fellas. To infinity and beyond!
Hey look! It's Buzz!
Yeah, hey Buzz. Let's show the guys our new secret bestfriends hand shake. Gimme five, man!
Well, obviously she wanted to have the party before the move. I'm not worried. You shouldn't be worried.
Of course Woody ain't worried! He's been Andy's favorite since kindergarten!
A lunchbox?!
A lunchbox...?!
Laserenvy.
All right, that's enough. Look, we're all very impressed with Andy's new toy 
Yeah. Like the attic. Heh, heh...
Alright! That's it!
Who is it this time?
I can't tell. Hey, where's Lenny?
Wait a minute. You  you don't think I meant to knock Buzz out the window, do you Potato Head?
That's Mr. Potato Head to you, you backstabbin' murderer!
Now, it was an accident! Guys, c'mon now, you...you gotta believe me
Good going, Slink! Now, just, just tie it on to something!
Wait! Wait! I got a better idea! How about we DON'T?!
Did you all take stupid pills this morning?! Have you forgotten what he did to Buzz? And now you want to let him back over here?
No, no, no! You got it all wrong, Potato Head. Buzz is fine! Buzz is right here. He's with me!
You are a liar!
No, I'm not! Buzz, come over here and you just tell the nice toys that you're not dead.
Wait just a minute. What are you trying to pull?!
Nothing.
No! No, no, no, no!
You murdering dog!
No, it's not what you think, I swear!
Save it for the jury. I hope Sid pulls your voicebox out, ya creep!
No! No! Don't leave! Don't leave! You've gotta help us, please! You don't know what it's like over here!
Come on. Let's get out of here.
No wait! You don't understand! Buzz is out there! We've gotta help him!!
Toss 'im overboard!
No, no, no, wait!
Oh, no!
Oh, ya big lizard! Now we'll never know what it is!
Where's my ear? Who's seen my ear? Did you see my ear?
Outta my way! Here I come, here I come 
Well, that MISTAKE is sitting in your spot, Woody.
Have you been replaced?
Oh, really? I'm from Playskool.
And I'm from Mattel. Well, I'm not actually from Mattel, I'm actually from a smaller company that was purchased in a leveraged buyout. Well, I don't really understand the financials, but...
Gettin' kind of tense, aren't you?
Oh, uh, Mr. Lightyear? Now I'm curious. What does a Space Ranger actually do?
That ain't no happy child.
He tortures toys  just for fun.
Huh?! Huh?! I told you he was guilty.
Who would've thought he was capable of such atrocities?!
Aaaaaah!
Will you quit moving around?!
I'm sorry. It's just that I get so nervous before I travel.
How did I get stuck with YOU as a moving buddy?
What?
Did I get my package in the mail?
I dunno.
Whaddaya mean, you don't know?
I don't know!
Oh no, Hannah!
What?
Look! Janie!
Hey!!
She's sick!
No she's NOT 
I'll have to perform one of my...operations!
NOOO... Don't touch her! NO!
Sid, give her back! Give her back now! I'm telling!
Patient is... ...preeepped.
MOM!! MOM!!
She's lying! Whatever she says it's not true!
Oh, boy. Will ya take a look at all those presents?!
I can't see a thing!
Hey, watch it!
Sorry there, old Spudhead.
Let's string him up by his pull string!
I got dibs on his hat!
B3.
Miss. G6.
Ohhh! You sunk it!
Hehheh.
Are you peeking?
Oh, quit your whining and pay up.
No, no, not the ear. Gimme the nose. C'mon!
How 'bout three out of five?
Son of a building block, it's Woody!
He's in the psycho's bedroom!
Oh, that is disgusting.
Murderer!
It doesn't matter how much we're played with. What matters is that we're here for Andy when he needs us. That's what we're made for. Right? Everyone is now looking down, sheepish.
Pardon me. I hate to break up the staff meeting, but THEY'RE HERE! Birthday guests at three o'clock!
Stay calm, everyone!!
No, no! Turn 'em around, turn 'em around!
Eh, he's puttin' 'em in backwards!
Plus is positive, minus is negative! Oh, let me!
It's not a laser! It's a little lightbulb that blinks!
What's with him?
Oh, impressive wingspan. Very good!
Oh, what?!...What?! These are plastic. He can't fly!
Hi!
Everyone, it's Woody!
Something's screwy here.
So, you see? We're friends now, guys. Aren't we, Buzz? You bet. Gimme a hug.
Hellooo...
HOYAAAHH!!!
Yes, it is a mistake, because, you see, the bed, here, is my spot.
I need to repair my turbo boosters. Do you people still use fossil fuels, or have you discovered crystalic fusion?
Well, let's see, we've got double A's 
Watch yourself!!
Yes. They're Andy's toys.
Alright, everyone. You're clear to come up.
Toy?
TOY. Toy.
Excuse me, I think the word you're searching for is Space Ranger.
The word I'm searching for I can't say because there's preschool toys present.
He's not a Space Ranger! He doesn't fight evil or shoot lasers or fly 
Excuse me.
They are a terilliumcarbonic alloy and I CAN fly.
No, you can't.
Yes, I can.
You can't!
Can!
Can't! Can't! Can't!
I tell you, I could fly around this room with my eyes closed!
Okay then, Mr. Lightbeer! Prove it.
All right, then, I will. Stand back everyone!
Why, thank you. Thank you all. Thank you.
That wasn't flying! That was falling with style!
Listen, Lightsnack, you stay away from Andy. He's mine, and no one is taking him away from me.
What are you talking about? Where's that bonding strip?!
And another thing. Stop with this spaceman thing. It's getting on my nerves.
Are you saying you want to lodge a complaint with Star Command? WOODY Oh okay, so you want to do it the hard way, huh?
Don't even think about it, cowboy!
Oh, yeah, tough guy?!
You actually think you're THE "Buzz Lightyear?" Oh, all this time I thought it was an act! Hey, guys! Look! It's the REAL Buzz Lightyear!
You're mocking me, aren't you?
Oh, no, no, no... Buzz, look! An alien!
Where?
What's going on?
Nothing that concerns you spacemen. Just us TOYS.
I'd better take a look anyway.
Why is that soldier strapped to an explosive device?
That's why. Sid.
Sure is a hairy fellah.
No! No, that's Scud, you idiot!
THAT is Sid!
You mean that happy child?
I could have stopped him.
Buzz, I would love to see you try. 'Course I'd love to see you as a crater.
Buzz!! Oh, Buzz, Buzz Lightyear!! Buzz Lightyear, thank goodness! We've got trouble!
Trouble?! Where?!
Down there. Just down there. A helpless toy...it's...it's trapped, Buzz!
Then we've no time to lose!!
Right? Buddy?
I just want you to know that even though you tried to terminate me, revenge is not an idea we promote on my planet.
Oh. Oh, that's good.
But we're not on my planet, are we?
No.
According to my navacomputer, the 
Shut up! Just shut up, you idiot!!
Sheriff, this is no time to panic.
This is the perfect time to panic! I'm lost, Andy is gone, they're going to move from their house in two days and it's all your fault!!
My fault?! If you hadn't pushed me out of the window in the first place 
Oh, yeah? Well, if YOU hadn't shown up in your stupid little cardboard spaceship and taken away everything that was important to me 
Don't talk to me about importance. Because of YOU the security of this entire universe is in jeopardy.
WHAT?!! What are you talking about?!
Buzz! Buzz, come back!
Go away.
Now you're sure this spacefreighter will return to its port of origin once it jettisons its food supply?
Uhhuh. And when we get there, we'll be able to find a way to transport you...home.
Well, then let's climb abroad.
No, no, no, wait, Buzz, Buzz, let's get in the back. No one will see us there.
Negative. There are no restraining harnesses in the cargo area. We'll be much safer in the cockpit.
Ow! Watch where you're going!
Sorry.
Wait a minute! No Buzz! This way! There's a special ship. I just saw it!
You mean it has hyperdrive?
Hyperactive hyperdrive, and astro...uh, turf.
C'mon, c'mon, that's it...
Where is it? I don't see the 
Spaceship.
Alright Buzz, get ready...
What's gotten into you, Sheriff? I was 
YOU are the one that decided to climb into this 
I've set my laser from stun to kill.
Oh, great, great. Yeah, and if anyone attacks us we can blink 'em to death.
I sure hope this isn't permanent.
Still no word from Star Command. We're not that far from the spaceport 
Woody, we don't know what's out there!
I'll tell you what's  AAAAH!
They're gonna eat us, Buzz!! Do something! Quick!
Shield your eyes!
It's not working. I recharged it before I left. It should be good for hours 
Oh, you idiot! You're a toy! Use your karate chop action!
Get away! Hoocha! Hoocha!
Hey!! Hey! How are you doing that? Stop that!
Back! Back, you savages! Back!
Woody, stop it!!
Sorry guys, but dinner's canceled!
Another stunt like that, cowboy  you're going to get us killed.
Don't tell me what to do!
Shhh!
What happened to you?
One minute you're defending the whole galaxy... ...and suddenly you find yourself suckin' down Darjeeling with Marie Antoinette and her little sisters.
I think you've had enough tea for today. Let's get you out of here, Buzz.
Don't you get it?! You see the hat? I am Mrs. Nesbit!!
Oh, I'm a sham!!
Shhhhh!! Quiet, Buzz.
Look at me! I can't even fly out of a window!
But  the hat looked good. Tell me the hat looked good! The apron is a bit much, it's not my color...
Out the window...Buzz, you're a genius!
Come on, this way!
Years of Academy training...wasted!!
Oh, come on, Buzz. I...Buzz, I can't do this without you. I need your help.
I can't help. I can't help anyone.
Why, sure you can, Buzz. You can get me out of here and then I'll get that rocket off you, and we'll make a break for Andy's house.
Andy's house. Sid's house. What's the difference.
Oh, Buzz, you've had a big fall. You must not be thinking clearly.
No, Woody, for the first time I am thinking clearly. You were right all along. I'm not a Space Ranger. I'm just a toy. A stupid little insignificant toy.
Whoa, hey  wait a minute. Being a toy is a lot better than being a Space Ranger.
Yeah, right.
No, it is. Look, over in that house is a kid who thinks you are the greatest, and it's not because you're a Space Ranger, pal, it's because you're a TOY! You are HIS toy.
But why would Andy want me?
Why would Andy want you?! Look at you! You're a Buzz Lightyear. Any other toy would give up his moving parts just to be you. You've got wings, you glow in the dark, you talk, your helmet does that  that whoosh thing  you are a COOL toy.
Buzz!! What are you doing? I thought you were 
Come on, Sheriff. There's a kid over in that house who needs us. Now let's get you out of this thing.
Yes Sir!
Woody! It's the moving van.
We've got to get out of here...NOW.
Shhhhhhh!
What?!
It's ok. Everything's under control.
Nice work, fellahs. Good job. Comin' out of the ground  what a touch! That was a stroke of genius.
Woody!
Hold on, Woody!
I can't do it! Take care of Andy for me!
NOOOOOOO!!
Well, thanks for the ride.
Look out!!
Great!
Woody! The rocket!
The match!
Woody?! What are you doing?
Hold still, Buzz!
Haha!!
You did it! Next stop. Andy.
Ahhh!! This is the part where we blow up!
Not today!
Hey, Buzz!! You're flying!!
This isn't flying. This is falling  with style!
Ha ha!! To Infinity and Beyond!!
Uh, Buzz?! We missed the truck!
We're not aiming for the truck!
Me? No, no, no, no... Are you?
Now Buzz, what could Andy possibly get that is worse than you?!
Aach!  Oh, hi, Bo.
I wanted to thank you, Woody, for saving my flock.
Oh, hey  it was nothing.
Whadda ya say I get someone else to watch the sheep tonight?
Heh, heh...oh yeah, uh, I...
You'd think they've never seen a new toy before.
Well sure, look at him. He's got more gadgets on him then a Swiss army knife.
Uh, let what? I don't  Uh, what do you mean? Who?
I know Andy's excited about Buzz, but you know, he'll always have a special place for you.
What are you doing over there?
It's a long story, Bo. I'll explain later. Here, catch this!
We're almost there.
Rocky! The ramp!
Whoooooah! Oh! Bo! There's gotta be a less painful way to get my attention.
Merry Christmas, Sheriff.
Say, isn't that mistletoe?
Mmhmmmmm.
Wow! Cool!
Whadda ya think?
Oh, this looks GREAT, Mom!
Can we leave this up 'til we move?
Well, sure, we can leave it up.
Yeah!
Now go get Molly. Your friends are going to be here any minute.
Okay.
Come on down, guys. It's time for games! We've got prizes!
Oh, yeah!
To infinity and beyond!
Oh, all this packing makes me hungry. What would you say to dinner at, uh, oh, Pizza Planet?
Pizza Planet?! Oh, cool!
Can I bring some toys?
You can bring ONE toy...
Just one?
Mom! Do you know where Buzz is?
No, I haven't seen him.
Andy! I'm heading out the door.
But Mom, I can't find him!
Well, honey, just grab some other toy! Now c'mon!
Okay...
I couldn't find my Buzz. I know I left him right there.
Honey, I'm sure he's around. You'll find him.
Can I help pump the gas?
Sure! I'll even let you drive.
Yeah?!
Yeah  when you're sixteen.
Yuk, yuk, yuk  funny, Mom.
Next stop...
Pizza Planet! Yeah!!!
Mom, have you seen Woody?
Where was the last place you left him?
Right here in the van.
Oh, I'm sure he's there. You're just not looking hard enough.
He's not here, Mom. Woody's gone.
I looked everywhere, honey, but all I could find was your hat.
But what if we leave them behind?
Oh, don't worry, honey, I'm sure we'll find Woody and Buzz before we leave tomorrow.
Everybody say, "Bye, house."
Bye, house.
Hey! Wow!
What? What is it?
Woody! Buzz!
Oh, great, you found them. Where were they?
Here! In the car!
See? Now, what did I tell you? Right where you left them.
Which one can I open first?
Let's let Molly open one.
How are you?
Tolerably well. I brought you some more rabbit manure for your roses.
It is so considerate of you.
I didn't mean for you to pay me for that.
I know you didn't but you have been so thoughtful.
But when your sunflowers come up, I'll pay you for them.
I planted a row just for you and you don't owe me anything.
What are you doing?
Counting the gray hairs in your head.
Counting the what? What does that have to do with the price of butter?
I was just trying to make conversation.
Where is Skip?
He is in his pigeon cage.
I'm sorry he got those birds.
You know the man next door is near death.
We can't really bring another family in here with us.
Why not? Harry says that's the only way to do good.
When did you talk to Harry?
Don't shout!
He just leeches off your parents. He is a master at wearing out welcome.
Harry is the kind of guy you would love to take out in the woods and leave under a rock.
Where does her get the power to summon all his old raffish friends? They all smell of moth balls.
Now you don't have to say anything if you don't want to.
I want to hear what happened. My brother is a jackass and a damn fool. The both of you have been as scarce as hen's teeth.
You shouldn't talk about the boy's father in front of him. This is family business and we have to pull together.
Whether the boy hears it or not, the man is still a jackass. Everyone should have some mother wit.
No, but I might have some Indian Chief Tonic.
I haven't heard anyone mention Swamp Root since buttonup shoes went out.
You know Harry lied about how that boy Hocker got kilt. And it was Harry who saw Emory last before they found him hanging over a levee like someone would hang a hog.
I remember Harry always trying to help someone. He got Lulla's daughter out of trouble. He was always running to the store for someone who couldn't leave the house.
Harry always shows his good side and, like the moon, the other side is black. Back home he always did try to act like the colored gentleman. I'm telling you Harry is nothing but evil. I'm warning you  you can't keep a wild animal as a pet around children.
You know Okra asked me to marry him the other evening.
Rush your mouth, girl. No, he didn't. He cannot be that big of a damn fool.
I asked Harry about it. He didn't own up to it. He said he didn't know what got into Okra.
He's just raffish. Harry put him up to it. Before evening sun sets, I would have his belongings back on Route 55, that old fox.
I can't accuse him just dry long 80.
Everybody who have been associated with Harry end up with pennies over their eyes.
What must I do?
If it was left up to me, I would poison him.
You don't act like the rest of Gideon's friends. They believe if you are not hard at work, you are hard at sin.
Oh, I'm more modern in my ways. I don't believe in sin, though there is good and evil. And evil is a thing you work at.
Not you mustn't touch. Your mama might not like you handling knives.
I think he wants to see your rabbit foot.
I let this rabbit foot do in place of my toby that I lost years ago.
What's a toby?
You don't want to be at crossroads without one. It's a charm that old people teach you how to make. I had one for a long time that belonged to my grandmother who had it ever since she was a child. In my travels I misplaced it. I have been looking over my shoulder ever since.
I thought you weren't old fashioned.
In some things. When we were children, there used to be an old man that came around and would snatch your soul if you didn't have something on you that didn't make a X.
Did you have your child at home?
No. No. No. No. I had my Child at Cedars and Sinai. And that ain't no county hospital. You have to have cash or check before you come in the door.
Some folks take that natural stuff too far.
Junior's wife kept her afterbirth' in the refrigerator. That's why I do not eat over there now.
Country people got so many strange ways,
I appreciate you lending me a hand. That lazy ass brother of mine was suppose to help me.
Well some folks are still waiting for their comeuppance. Don't take me wrong but you can't judge people by how you act. You're a caring person.
He should be caring. That is not too much to ask.
Ya, but you can't do the shuffle with one leg. You and your wife, in your spare time, work with the less fortunate. Now I'm not talking about you and what you do but some folks that always run to help the victim, deep down are attracted to pain and suffering and love to be near the dying.
All the people working with us are really doing it 'cause they hate to see suffering.
You never know what's in the heart and just because you can cry doesn't make you human.
I couldn't believe it when Suzie called and said you were staying here. How have you been?
Girl, do you still sing and dance?
No, I'm a different person now, Harry.
Harry, that's not nice. I'm in church now.
Why run out and close the barn door when the horse is gone? I remember when you weren't saved. That was way back yonder when the Natchez Trace was just a dirt road.
Some people grow up and change their ways.
I know your mother ain't still operating that house of hers.
My mother passed on years ago.
None of your business.
That is a boy from home, Lulla's brother.
You know the saying, "your heart is in your left hand."
Now I was trying to be nice, to make conversation, since we go back some.
I was quoting from the Bible. If the shoe fits, wear it.
"Out of weariness, I spoke to my own heart; to leave it all and to die. And I gave my heart to know madness and folly."
An empty wagon makes a lot of noise and you, tappy head, you ain't worth the salt you put in greens.
Speaking of tappy heads, we ought to have an old fashion fish fry.
Is this your house?
Oh. I'm sorry. Gideon, what do you say?
In the meantime Harry can slaughter us a hog.
I already have, my dear.
A woman in family way just reminds of spring and my younger days.
That's nice.
Well, you and your husband are special. Ya, Gideon tells me you do volunteer work to help feed the poor.
How many people do you all feed?
Last Saturday we handed out over two hundred meals.
Good God Almighty, bless your bones. But the problem grows.
Week by week the crowds at the door keeps getting larger. We can't feed all the hungry.
Of course not. Have you ever heard of a man jumping in the river to save five hundred drowning people? No you ain't. You have to take just one and fatten him up. When you spread help too thin, you , you just nickel and dime the situation. If you try to save all, all die but if you save one life, life goes on. You just have to remember, medicine that works leaves a bitter taste.
I don't know if we could take one in with Rhonda and me at home alone at times.
Oh, I wasn't pointing my finger at you. Hey, you have to think of yourself. A lot of them have all kinds of diseases and will cut your throat while you sleep. There are too many bad people out there.
There is something that I always wanted to know. Tell me, how did those boys die?
Now who are we talking about?
Miss Clara's boy, Emory, to start with. The Johnson's Hocker was another one...
Wasn't Hocker lynched?
You know as well as I do that it was made to look like he was lynched. Now who would hang someone from a persimmon tree?
What difference does it make if it's persimmon, oak tree or huckleberry bush?
Hocker's death almost caused a race riot. A lot of innocent people could have been hurt behind that.
Strange as it may seem, it might have cleared the waters. Sometimes the right action comes from the wrong reason.
I think if anybody had a hand in killing Hocker, you ought to ask or you should have asked Emory and Chick.
Chick was outright killed by a mob. He killed a white man that owed him some money and when they caught up with him, they tied him behind a car and dragged him from out of the hills back to town.
Those boys never did have good luck.
You damn right they didn't, especially Emory, my cousin.
Emory had made a lot of enemies. He had a big mouth.
Stranger my foot, it was my grandmother who helped you into this world.
Well, I don't want to put you out.
Good evening. It must be all the different time zones I crossed that makes me feel this weary.
You should go back and rest.
No, if I rest any longer, I won't sleep tonight. May I use your bathroom to wash up a bit?
One can tell you are from back home. These people nowadays don't know what manners are.
Where we come from, you had to know how to act right. You had to know how to say yes sir and no sir. You had to know your place.
Those days you could always find something redeeming about even the worst person.
You remember that boy who lost his mind, Joe? You could hear him pitching horseshoes at night in the dark. He wouldn't miss a one. Make him mad and call yourself running in the house to be safe. He would pick up a brick and say "go on in there brick and hit somebody" and it would find its mark.
I was afraid to go to Marcus Bottom because of him.
All those places that us coloreds lived, that we used to call Bottoms, have all been changed to Drives and Heights. Everything is in what you call it, not in what it is.
I have someone I want you to meet.
I'll be right there.
Harry, you know everything.
You got to know everything, do everything, and be everything.
What's the problem here?
She has a fish bone caught in her throat. Could all of you go in the other room? Gideon, get some bread and toast it quickly and find me the cod liver oil.
How is everybody?
Tolerable well.
Ah, you young folks don't know how it is. How is Gideon today?
He wasn't able to get out of bed today.
I hope that it's nothing serious.
He has never gotten rid of the malaria. He is usually up and at it the next day. I'm going to make him fresh chicken broth.
Let me earn my keep. I'll go out and get a hen and have it picked and ready for the pot. Try to make him some cow tea next time.
Can you watch Gideon for a while? One of the girls is going into labor. Junior is going to drive me over.
You just run along. I'll fix him his soup. He will be all right.
That smells like fresh coffee.
Let me get you a cup?
Only if you can spare it.
How is he doing?
As long as he keeps his throat clear, he is able to get some rest.
I made a fresh pot of coffee. Okra and I thought you need a rest. I'll stand guard. Okra wants to talk to you anyway.
Good afternoon, ladies.
Good afternoon to you.
As God is my witness, I have never done anything to that woman.
You must have done something to her.
Since she has repented, all she does is throw stones.
Hattie is a different person now.
I don't make no bones about where I'm going to spend eternity. I have always been wild and you know that. If you are made to feel half a man, what do you think the other half is?
I'm glad you brought that up as to who you are. I have to know who is in my house.
You invited me.
Only if you are a good man, a friend. Are you a friend?
This is my grandson, Sunny. He is my youngest son's child.
He kind of favors one of my boys when he was about his age.
Boy, that is bad luck to touch a fellow with a broom.
He knows better. Sunny, apologize to Harry.
I came all the way from Detroit by bus going to Oakland. The bus stopped in Los Angeles. I had to get off and take a rest. I'll catch the last bus leaving at midnight. I'm just too tired to go on.
Why didn't you catch a plane?
My feet have never been on anything that wasn't directly attached to the ground.
Stay until you feel better? I would like to hear all the news.
I'm worn out but won't you feel like you are taking in a stranger?
Man, put your boxes down and stay as long as you like. We have empty rooms since the boys got their own families and moved out.
Well if you're sure, I won't be a bother. Oh, I don't sleep on no spring mattress. I always make myself a pallet on the floor.
Man, act like this is your home.
That's awful generous of you. I always ask to keep from wearing out welcome.
It's the boy next door throwing at his birds. I'm just waiting on him to hit a pane in the window
I'm going to wash up now. You all please excuse me.
Good morning.
You ought to come hear our preacher. Remember old Cat Iron? Well, our preacher is just as strong.
Next time when I feel a little better perhaps.
I was going to get up and get a hen out there for dinner, but time got away.
Oh, I would feel much at home if you let me get one for you. I haven't wrung a chicken's neck in a month of Sundays. You know, folks would call my daddy to kill their hogs. That used to be my trade from time to time.
Well, I would appreciate that.
How often is your wife called to help delivery?
It was slow. Now it seems like everyone is having births at home.
What could have caused this? I just changed this damn thing.
Everything these days is made overseas.
You and Babe Brother hit it off so well.
Course, it is your business, but I feel obliged to tell you that maybe you have not been fair with the boy.
I tried to teach him right from wrong just like I did his Junior.
Everyone has to follow his own plough. A man doesn't have to know how to cut a wick and clean a chimney nowadays. City people don't give a hoot and a holler about the shape of the moon nowadays. You don't plant old ways... ... but, at the end, you find yourself doing what your father did but you have to have the land in you. It's when you want to give the house or farm to the kids and they don't want it. You sell it to a stranger. You worked your whole life, for what? I doubt if people nowadays have knowledge of a victory garden or seen an inch worm. All what we've experienced has no meaning.
You're suppose to teach your children what you know. Junior, I don't have to worry about. Babe Brother is a different story.
You still call him boy. You call Babe Brother boy in front of his wife and son.
My daddy called me boy up to the time he died. I was always boy to him.
'Course, you could be right. Your sons are alive. All my sons are dead.
Haven't the years been good to Hattie?
It hasn't been the years; it's been the men in her life.
Boy, I thought you were about to cross the river.
I tell you, I feel like a ghost.
My mind plays tricks on me. Is it okay if I take a bath now?
Everyone is gone. Rhonda is in the bathroom.
Babe Brother and his wife are taking advantage of a situation. I hate to be mean to people but picking Sunny up when they feel like it has to come to an end. Now I'm going to ask him how come he couldn't be at your birthday.
Don't bother the poor boy. It just takes some people a little longer to figure out who they are.
I don't know how two brothers can be so different.
Let us settle this tomorrow.
Look! Don't try to get ahead by riding our backs.
Your feet are cold.
Go back to sleep.
I asked you to wake me when Babe Brother comes.
You all act like two roosters.
I'm not going to let him get away with murder.
You and Babe Brother are so much alike...
He ain't nothing like me. How come a man has to have sons that are day and night apart? You ought to stop protecting him.
Hush.
You're always taking his side.
Hush.
I'm trying to make him a man but you keep babying him.
You're going to find yourself on the floor.
You know, Babe Brother's wife just dumps greens in the pot without washing them.
Babe Brother is a poor boy.
Well, it's up to Suzie.
It would be nice.
Do you want your coat? It's cold out here.
No, I'm too hot now.
You better be careful. You'll get a stroke arguing.
I wouldn't care if I drop dead if he learn something from it. Son, you make me wish I was dead.
Gideon, don't say things like that.
Let us go back in before the night of celebration becomes a night of me killing my son.
No. Before anyone moves, you two shake hands and don't carry it any further.
I'm worn out.
Just stay in bed and rest.
I have to feed the chickens before they wake everybody up.
You stay inside. I will see to them.
I will appreciate that.
It's good to be able to hear that.
You must have been really sick.
How is the garden doing?
I need to get out there and get those weeds out.
How is that hen doing? I was meaning to pip her before I fell sick.
What, are you having another party?
You better come sit down. You are still sick.
Gal, you're talking to John Henry. When was I sick?
Since this morning.
What happened to your hand?
I cut it on an old rusty knife.
What did you put on it?
It's healing now.
He's going to check out heaven first. He gets a round trip ticket to heaven. He gets in heaven and finds it just like back home. People dripping with sweat, working in the fields, hardly surviving. He asked a man who was getting a drink of water, "I thought the streets were paved with gold." "They are but you won't see them," he said. "Boy, you got to work day and night cause idleness is sinfulness." So he takes the other half of his ticket and takes the express to hell. He sees people stretched out on their backs kicking back, picking their teeth. "Man, this is a dream." He asked, "What's you'll doing?" They all hollered back, "Sinning." The devil was shaking hands with everyone and came up to him and said, "Please to meet you." He asked, "I thought you'll was supposed to be burning in fire." Someone said, "Man, ain't no fire down here except under that pot of chitlins." The man was going go ask the preacher back on earth...
I don't want to hear any joke about colored people being in hell. You're being irreverent.
I'm almost finished. I'm about to come to the punch line.
I don't want to hear any tales about colored people...
But these are white people, anybody. The punch...
I don't care to hear any jokes about people being in hell. This cut on my hand reminds me that it is nothing to laugh at.
It's only a tale.
You know it is against the city ordinance to keep chickens or live stock.
I always had chickens, ducks and whatnots.
Not anymore, not in the city.
We grow most of our own food. The money I get from social security, my pension and my wife's work, keeps us living on the edge. What choice do people like us have.
Well, you just have to move further out.
Now how far would further out be?
I'm not here to argue, sir.
Did you ever have to use this thing?
That is called a crab apple switch. It's for those bad acting monkeys and just the thing for a mean dog. Now I don't know if I actually did what I did or got my life and story mixed in with other folk's stories but I seem to recall that I had to use my crab apple on a boy from back home. I was up in Memphis working on the railroad, like your daddy who had an easy job. He would sing a song that had a cadence and we would lay track. Anyway I was coming down Beale Street and I heard this music coming from a saloon. Sure enough it was Emory. My daddy taught both of us to play but Emory was natural at it. Got in a blues band and what not. He and another boy had killed a boy named Hocker sometime back and they balled the Jack leaving town. Emory had lost one eye and had a scar running down his face. Bad luck I would say. He got to drinking that corn liquor. We went to his girl's room and he wouldn't stop drinking. He started talking about the old days and he went mad. He pulled his knife and I got to mine first. The lights went out.
Don't pick up the cards if you are not in the game. Did he die?
I don't know what happened to him. He just ran out into the streets. I got some old records I want you to hear. I like the blues sung simply, man and a guitar. Or sung by a woman who had bad luck all her life. Don't ever let anyone tell you his life's story if it is of a weary life full of sadness. When I was a boy, a man told me a story of how he lost all of his sons and I'll be damned if the same thing didn't happen to me.
What is that?
Boy, that is the real South. That is real corn liquor.
Never play with someone's else's cards. You always get a new deck. Look at this card. See anything?
It is just a regular card.
Son, I can take everything you got with that deck. It is marked. Now I'm going to show you how to make some money in case you get stuck somewhere.
Son, would you do me a favor and see if you could turn off that tap in the bathroom. My hand is too weak. And would you do me another favor? I don't like asking this but would you clean the tub for me? I have trouble bending over.
Anytime you need someone to do something for you, just let me know.
I could swear I heard my son call me.
You probably heard the wind stirring up those dead leaves over there.
I heard his voice as clear as day. I better get back. Maybe something is wrong.
I don't want to wear out welcome, but you can stay in someone's heart longer than you can stay in their house. Come with us, boy. We are going to have a good time.
This would be a bad time for me to leave.
We are going where the action is. Ain't that right, Okra? Let's play for a couple of bucks unless you want to start off with two bits and work our way up. What would you give to be rich?
Who is it?
Babe Brother.
I was hoping you came to the door instead of him. It gets cold at night.
This doesn't make any sense; you are going to drag that poor boy out in the cold air.
He will be alright.
Doesn't he look a whole of lot better?
Well, you look better than you did yesterday.
I need to get my suitcase out of the garage.
What for?
I'm going back home with Harry.
I've heard some foolish things in my life.
Harry is coming to pick me up.
Have you lost your mind? Have you thought about your wife and child, not to mention your sick father? And I need your help to move his bed from under the leak in the ceiling.
I'm busy.
Don't make me raise my hand to you. You have to see for yourself that you are going in the wrong direction.
Can't I be myself without you jumping in with your right and wrong? The world is not black and white. Show me one perfect person. If you can't, don't ask me to be.
I do have a right to ask you to be a little bit better than me and your father because we gave you a better head start. You have no right to complain to us about your not having enough. You sit right there with your no manners self.
Because you were spoiled, don't try to spoil Sunny.
My daddy never gave me anything without my having to sweat for it. Every summer, the way they kept me and Junior out of trouble was to send us to Big Daddy's farm. We would get up with the chickens. Every summer the fence had to be repaired. The barn needed a coat of paint. We had to pip all of Big Mama's hundred laying hens and go to church all day on Sunday. For Big Daddy, calluses and sweat were the mark of a man. Sunny will never have to bust his knuckles like we did.
I want Sunny to have an advantage that you and I never had, but he needs discipline, and you are not helping when I tell him to do something and you allow him to get out of it.
What is a sip of coffee going to do?
Coffee is bad for anybody, especially for a child.
I don't see you crying about my drinking it.
How old are you?
Why don't you come in for a while?
I would like to finish reading this. What would I talk about? I haven't read this month's almanac. I don't care to hear about how the corn was this fall or how to get rid of gophers by putting garlic in their holes. They pride themselves in making life hard and that's not my cup of tea.
You would think people never lived in a house if they have to ask what does 1 1/2 baths mean.
Will you still get the money from your father?
I told him we might not need it, if you can talk your parents into giving you your share of the property.
Pops put Big Daddy's farm in Rhonda's and Sunny's name and fixed it so no one can borrow on it.
We could borrow on that land and put the money to work.
I preached to Mom and Dad about it but they are stuck in their ways, it's like talking to a brick. But if there is a way...
Why does he always pick on me?
He is just being like all parents, concerned about the ones they love.
I don't need that kind of love. And I don't want to be reminded all the time that Big Mama's grandmother was born in slavery. If you really care about me, just tell me how I can make money.
Linda, how come you don't see that Sunny puts his shoes on right?
Why in the h...
You okay?
I'm okay. Go back to your friends.
I have more sense than to give up everything, my family, you and Sunny. It wasn't me, I mean the real me inside my body. I'm glad it's over. It's like a veil has been lifted.
Like a veil has been lifted?
It's like I've been swimming in muddy waters.
Like muddy waters?
It was like all those things old country people try to tell you what hell is like.
You were in hell?
I couldn't believe the things I was doing. It was like an internal struggle going on inside my body.
Do you think you won?
It was nip and tuck.
And what lesson have we learned from all of this, Babe Br... Sam... I mean Samuel?
I guess it proves you really care about me. You hung in there.
When are you going to find time to help me fix the roof?
You all don't believe me when I tell you I'm afraid of heights.
You used that excuse to get out of the army.
You always got something to say.
You want me to mortgage my house to invest in a scheme of yours? You know the last time we went into something together Daddy had to go in his savings to keep us from ending on the street.
Why are you always afraid to get somewhere?
This is not a good time to take chances. Your best friend, Robert, an accountant, lost his home and is out on the street. We see him from time to time. He comes down to church for a free meal.
This is what it is all about, trying to keep from being out on the street.
Robert asks about you. When are you going to do something to help him?
Maybe I can get down there next week.
Why in the hell didn't you help mama?
I told her I would if she would give me time.
I bet you if your master would have told you to fix the hole in the roof, you would have rebuilt the whole damn house.
You always got the best of it around here and when Dad always talks about my son, it is always you, so you fix the roof.
That is a damn lie and you know it. Every time father asks you to do something, you either halfass do it or run off and hide. Mama asked you to turn the dirt in her garden and you told her, with your smart ass self, that you weren't a farmer; get Junior to do it. Every time someone asks you to do something, you always say, tell Junior to do it. Boy, you ought to grow up.
I told you about calling me boy. I ain't no boy. See, you and Dad got a bad habit of calling me boy. You call me boy in front of my wife. You think I'm going to fix the roof? I hope the wind blows the whole damn thing off and it pours down rain.
I ought to break your damn neck.
I'm leaving and don't even call me when the shoe falls 'cause all he did for me was to try and run my life. I'm tired of people saying Babe Brother this, Babe Brother that. What's my name?
You dumb ass, it's Babe Brother.
My name is Sam. Samuel.
I'll drive her to the hospital.
We will take her. You all stay here and watch Dad.
I'm cold. I need to get out into the sunlight.
What is it, noontime?
What time is it? Do you think you can just treat us like your slave? It's after one.
I tried to call to let you know I was going to be late.
That's a lie.
I pay my own way.
Since when?
Your mother asked me not to mention it but your mother's birthday was last week.
I hadn't forgotten. I ordered some cloth but it didn't come in and I felt so bad if I would have come to her birthday without that, I just stayed at home.
What did your wife get her?
We got the same thing.
Why, you don't want us to bring him over?
No, it's that when do you have time to be parents to him? You guys don't pick him up until nine, ten at night. You are into yourselves, as the saying goes. Spend some time trying to be parents. Take him to the mountains, fishing. You ought to let him get to know nature.
Well, you are his grandfather. He is supposed to spend some time with you. You're supposed to show him those woodsy things and this and that.
Junior spends time with his child.
Oh here we go with that.
Babe Brother, is that my shirt that you're wearing?
Yes.
How come you're not wearing my shoes?
They're too big.
When are you boys going to fix that roof?
Soon as I rest a bit. I meant as soon as we are back to normal again, anytime.
Here I am thinking about myself when poor Harry is resting on the floor of the kitchen.
What about ID's?
One to seven: Deal the face cards.
Oh, no.
Who is it?
Kim Dae Yung. North Korean Nuclear specialist.
Meaning there may be nuclear material down there?
Who is that?!? What's in the box??
I don't know. He's not in the database 
What's in the box, General? What's in the box???
Will it go off?
Maybe. Maybe not.
Abort the cruise.
Soviet SB9 nuclear torpedo. Yield, one kiloton.
Will the cruise set it off?
Yes.
I regret to inform you, sir, that Saddam Hussein is still demanding a bonus for his role in the Gulf War.
...Haven't we already paid him for his services?
Yes, sir. But he still feels his people should share in the increased profits of our news division. He has proposed an additional 500 million dollar payment.
... And there's no truth that 10% of that money will go into your Swiss bank account?
No sir! I swear! This is not true!!
You disappoint me, Number Three.
Please sir. Please 
...But because I am a just man, I've decided to give Mr. Hussein what he deserves.
Mr. Stamper will escort you to the plane.
Thank you sir! Thank you!
Is the helicopter ready?
Fueled and waiting.
Good. We have an appointment in Hong Kong.
It's a trick! After him. They're in the south stairwell!
Get more men up there!
They're on the bridge. Seal off the 50th floor!
I should have hired this man. Get somebody up there!
 Built to withstand a nuclear blast. Are they alive?
Yes. Shall we kill them?
No. I have a better idea. In fact, Mr. Bond may have actually improved my original plan. Bring them both to Hong Kong. And Make sure he has nothing else up his sleeve.
What the hell is going on?
It's Bond!
Kill him! Finish it!
That was too close.
Don't worry. Mr. Bond will get the message. So will his boss.
The drill is in the water; approaching the intake tunnel.
Excellent.
Please, Sidney. I'd like to remember you fondly.
Approaching the first gate.
Start the grinders.
Bore through. ...They used to say living well was the best revenge, Mr. Bond. They're wrong. Revenge is the best revenge.
Entering the main tunnel  ten minutes to target 
Hong Kong, Mr. Bond!
You have to leave 
A hundred and fifty years ago, my ancestors took this island  a barren, lifeless rock  and turned it into the greatest city known to modern civilization. And now that I'm being forced to give it back, I intend to return it in exactly the same condition: A barren, lifeless rock. The gold is merely reparations  payment from the spineless British government who wouldn't listen.
Take the men. I can finish alone.
You come with me  You stay here.
What is HE doing here?
I see you two have met.
Obviously, the British government denies all of this 
 I told you! He was there! 
 But as I've explained to Sidney, without proof, there's just no story. Don't you agree Mr. Bond?
He brought that up from the wreck.
...I see.
...Well! I do believe this requires further investigation!
Thank you, Uncle Elliot.
No matter what the British government says, I won't kill this story. Miss Oxford will show both of you to the elevator... And one of my people will definitely be in touch sooner than later.
How sweet.
My timing always was lousy.
Damn. It's doing it again.
What's wrong?
About every ninety seconds, the auto pilot jogs us to the west.
The backup does the same thing.
Check it again. What about the global positioning satellite? Could there be something wrong with the signal?
How is it now?
Seems to be back to normal, sir.
A dead head. Water logged timber. Floats straight up. You sometimes see them on the east side of the channel  from the logging camps on Sumatra  but they don't usually float this far west. Muncy! Engines to half!
Ayeaye sir. Engines to half.
Chew up a log like that in the propeller, you end up with enough paperwork to go from here to London. Twice.
The Canadian Prime Minister wants to set a lunch 
Pencil it in for the next trip 
The American presidential candidate called to complain about that sex story 
Send him a $10,000 campaign contribution, and explain I have no control over what my journalists write 
Your bankers want an answer about the Brazilian TV stations
No 
The Queen invited you to dinner 
Yes 
And the 9:30 news meeting is waiting.
Excellent.
Who's in charge here?
I am. What do you want?
You have precisely one minute to pull up your anchor and be under way.
Forget it. No way. I got here first.
Who's Wade?
What's your name?
Captain Morton.
My name is Sidney Winch, and 
Good for you, Miss Winch. You now have exactly 30 seconds to get this rust bucket out of here.
I know my rights. These are international waters. The British Navy abandoned that boat, and I'm claiming it. Under international law, I have the right to salvage what's on that wreck.
Fifteen seconds. Perhaps you should consider hiring an attorney.
I was an attorney!
Hmmm. I suppose this is a step above that profession. Ten seconds. Are you leaving?
No.
You leave me no alternative.
You won't get away with this!
Goodday, Miss Winch. I advise you to get some steam up  before you run aground.
... And what do you call these?
Jashwa tsway. These are lips.
Indeed they are. Deadly little things.
And what do you call these? The Gang of Two?
Stop it!
I was just getting to the interesting part!
We've already done the interesting part. Do you forget?
Remind me.
Sakwa!
Is that Mandarin, or Cantonese?
Mandarin. You jerk. I'm late. I have to get dressed.
Tsi tien, Mr. Bond.
Tsi tien, Professor Wu.
Thank you Colonel Everhart. 007, I'd like to see you in my office. Why don't you and the Colonel exchange numbers if you need more information?
Yes, M.
Come in, 007. You know the Minister?
Of course. Minister Johnstone.
Tell me, 007, what do you know about Elliot Harmsway?
Only what I read in the newspapers.
 Along with Tomorrow  the first worldwide newspaper. Circulation 27 million. Daily. 
'Able to topple governments with a single story'  as he says in his press.
... What's Harmsway done?
It seems, 007, we've received a tip
The reason I invited the Minister here, 007, was to reassure him that this investigation will be handled with the utmost discretion.
Of course.
Which is also why I've withheld this information from NATO and our allies.
... Didn't we once investigate Harmsway?
Yes. 1988. He was furious at the British plan to return Hong Kong, and supposedly started his own negotiations with the Chinese Government. The inquiry went nowhere  but it did earn MI6 a rather powerful enemy 
You're to wear this mask at the Venice Carnival, and wait to be contacted.
I understand.
.... I hate to ask, but... Did you ever think you'd miss Communism?
We serve the interests of the British people, 007. No matter who we may be foolish enough to elect.
But if Elliot Harmsway is involved with that uranium, I want him prosecuted to the ends of the earth.
Hopefully, it won't get that far.
...I'll give you a ring from Venice.
Good luck on your mission, 007.
Sorry I'm late 
Actually, you're just in time. Admiral Roebuck: You know Commander Bond, don't you?
...You're turning into quite the politician, 007.
I have an excellent teacher. 'Make sure you wear the uniform'?
What do you make of all this?
It doesn't quite add up.
The infrared satellite images. No heat, no flame, no explosion. If that boat went down where they said it did, there should have been some residual heat reading on the surface.
Sabotage?
A threethousand ton frigate doesn't just vanish into thin air.
Bourbon. Neat.
I wonder if you handle your liquor more carefully than you handle your boat.
Sometimes, you just have to plunge into things. Be reckless.
 And I bet you always leave turmoil in your wake.
Have we met?
This afternoon. Our boats practically kissed in the harbor. James Bond.
Sidney Winch.
Vodka martini, shaken not stirred. And another for you?
No. But you can buy a drink for my friend, Taro.
Boyfriend?
Chaperone. I'm waiting for my dinner date.
Pity. Bring him whatever he wants.
So what brings you to Kuala Lumpur, Mr. Bond? Wait  don't tell me: Unhappy marriage? Running from some poor little girl with two kids and a Chanel pocketbook in  London?
Actually, I'm here on business. You might say it was a... Golden opportunity.
And exactly what business are you in, Mr. Bond?
Insurance. Lloyds of London.
The Strait can be a very dangerous place, Mr. Bond. A few words scribbled on a piece of paper in London doesn't carry a lot of value out here. Including life insurance.
I'll keep that in mind.
I see my date is here. And I think Mr. Bond is ready to leave.
Nice to run into you again.
Let's not make it a habit.
 Shut up!
You have to excuse Miss Winch: She thinks she's on a 'seduce and destroy' mission through life... ...But she won't kill us.
No?
No. First, because I don't think it's in your nature. And second, because there's no gold down there.
So charming! So suave! Don't insult me. I'm not one of your 'little London girls' who falls for the lies.
Do I have to do everything around here?
I hope so.
I hope you'll be gentle.
Think about mom.
And what do you call this?
 The family jewels?
If I were you 
 You're not.
Just remember: They think there's ten billion dollars in gold down there.
Thank you. "Now hear this: Drop dead."
Why don't we just take these 
No. I want Sir Elliot to keep them.
... Do you have a gun?
What?
You heard me. A gun? I left mine in the car.
That's funny: you struck me as the kind of man who always carries protection.
Listen to me! I'm a British secret service agent. And we have about two minutes before Harmsway kills both of us.
Harmsway sank that ship and stole the gold. It's on the Sea Dolphin II. And thanks to your little show and tell   giving him the evidence  We're the only ones who can tie him to the crime.
Elliot Harmsway is my Uncle!
Blood or Dutch?
He was my father's best friend!
He's killed closer.
You are seriously deranged.
Maybe. But why are we going up instead of down?
This has got to be a mistake.
The only mistake is that they didn't kill us in the elevator.
Wait here.
No. I'm going with you.
... How did you get into marine salvage?
My father left me the business.
Not a lot of difference.
What do you mean?
What the hell does that do?
Cleans dirt. Let's go.
Down?
Up.
What now? And don't give me some movie clich like 'trust me.'
Trust me.
Put your back to the railing. Sit up on it.
Are you listening to me?
Put your arms around my neck. Lock your legs around my waist.
... We have time for that?
Sometimes you just have to 
Don't say it.
Is this  like  a normal day for you?
It's a lousy job, but  The only reason I stay is for the health benefits.
Here. You shoot. I'll drive.
...You know, that's another reason you're probably not in a successful relationship.
Another reason??? Did I miss something???
You insist on calling all the shots. And by the way: I am not a helpless girl.
If it's radio controlled, it'll break the code.
If not?
We blast through.
Sleep well?
Next time, I do the driving.
What do you mean, you'd rather die alone?
I didn't say when I want to die 
... Yes???
Before we go any further here, Mr. Bond, from Lloyds of London, I just want to get two things straight.
... Yes?
First, that boat is in international waters. I'm claiming it for salvage. Onethird of that gold is mine.
And number two?
If you think we're going to have some kind of 'life affirming' romance here just because we cheated death, let me be clear: We're going to have it where I want, and when I want.
And when might that be?
Now.
Interesting presentation.
Interesting video tape.
They point, I shoot.
Do you have a pen? I just got promoted and don't have my new cards yet.
Of course.
... Does this do anything?
Depends what number you write.
Married?
Happily.
... Kids?
Three. You? Married?
No.
I didn't think so.
Here. I gave you my assistant's phone number. If it's urgent, she knows where to reach me.
Thanks. Take care 
You too.
Wade, what the hell are you doing here?
I am not here, ol' buddy. The CIA has absolutely no knowledge of the missing ship, the missing gold, where it was going, or when it left Hong Kong.
That's reassuring.
Hey  the world is my office.
Let's take a look at the body.
I don't know if you'd call it a boat...
Something with an engine? Not oars?
Step into my office.
What do you want with the Harbor Master?
Tide and current charts. Work backward from the body  find where the ship sank. Where did you get the boat?
Seized it from a guy smuggling computer chips out of Bangkok. Should have seen his rose garden: Blooms the size of hand grenades.
I think I've just seen my next future exwife.
Not if you kill us first  unless that's how you plan to leave Muffy.
Natalya?
Yeah. Russian Minister of Transportation.
She married a hockey player.
I envy your 'undercover' assignments.
We work in the dark. We do what we can.
I have to get these to London. Do you know this Captain Cheong?
Spends his nights at the Kuala Lumpur yacht club.
Can you arrange a meeting?
Hell. The CIA built that club.
Yo! Jimbo! I won five hundred  What happened?
He tied one on.
I dunno, Jimbo. It can't be out here. How could they get this far off course?
Who knows? Fog, night...
They'd never sail this close to the shore.
Wait a minute  I've got it. There! Off the port bow!
I got you covered.
That's reassuring.
Sidney Winch, meet 
Jack Wade. Citibank. Commercial loan division. If you're ever lookin' for a sweet refinance on the boat 
Where to now, Jimbo?
I'm not certain... But I think there's someone I want to press for some answers in Kuala Lumpur.
Okay, Saunders. What is it this time? Rocket in the leg? Machine pistol in the arm?
Q's retirement party. I'd just put the knife into the cake, and 
Come on. I know better than that 
It must do something.
Well... If you insist.
Now pay attention, 007. We haven't much time to demonstrate your new Q toys.
How is old Q?
Gone fishing.
Fishing?
Big game fishing. Sonar torpedoes. Retirement gift from his friends at the CIA.
Saunders, I've lit cigarettes 
Not from forty feet.
... Shoelaces?
Plastique explosive shoelaces. Cut them to regulate the size of the blast; totally harmless until you attach the detonator hidden in the heel of your shoe.
Perfect way to tie up a... 'Knotty' problem?
Moving along  A typical plastic security card. Name here, magnetic information stripe here  And a code breaking microprocessor here. Swipe it through any card reader  anywhere  you're in.
Does it work on cash machines?
It was an authorized test. I returned the money.
I see...
Finally, your new watch: Blue laser here for signaling or burning through locks; press this button, the sweep hand becomes a Geiger counter.
If you can't do the time, don't do the crime?
Oh. I almost forgot. There is one last thing: Before Q retired, he asked that I give you one other protective device.
A wedding band??? What am I supposed to be able to do with this?
I believe Q's exact words were: "Hopefully, nothing."
His newspapers?
Occasionally, yes. British media mogul. Born in Hong Kong; controls newspapers, TV, radio, cable, satellites; books, magazines, movies, computer software. Theme parks.
More scurrilous, unsubstantiated gossip.
Perhaps. But it does explain how an exKGB agent turned illegalarms dealer is suddenly portrayed as a longtime friend of the people. If you believe what you read in the papers.
Need I remind the two of you that Elliot Harmsway  Sir Elliot Harmsway  is directly descended from the Earl of Aberdeen? That his Scottish ancestors practically invented Hong Kong  and out of sheer gratitude, Queen Victoria herself named the port "Aberdeen Harbor" in their honor?
There is one last thing, 007: Elliot Harmsway is vital to the economic interests of this nation. He's also a major contributor to the party. I expect him to be given every consideration.
Political considerations?
To the best of my recollection, Mr. Bond, I suggested no such thing. In fact, I was never here.
Paris?!? What are you doing here?
Is that any way to say hello?
I thought your specialty was goodbye.
Oh, James. I've missed you 
Is this another one of your games?
Stop it! You're hurting me! Can't you just be nice?
I've got half the British government breathing down my neck. I don't have time for your nonsense.
Don't you even miss me? Didn't I mean anything to you?
Nothing.
What about Elliot Harmsway? Or is this just another one of your stunts?
No! He's crazy  he's insane. He hates everybody. He's got these plans  You've got to help me, James. I'm sorry. I'm sorry for everything. I know I was wrong  but you've got to protect me. I know you still love 
Do you feel better now?
Do you?
What about the uranium?
It's on the boat. He's holding a press conference tomorrow.
I'm so sorry, James. I promise, I'll never leave you again.
Shhhhh...
Just hold me.
Paris 
Leave me alone! He's going to kill me!!
Why didn't you tell me? Why wasn't it in our files?
He didn't want anyone to know. He kept it out of the papers. He said a third wife was bad for his image. You've got to protect me!
Just  say it. Say it just once.
One thing at a time. I'll see you in twenty minutes. Go.
Yes 
Guard! Arrest these men! Escort them to the cutter!
Wait a minute 
Get them out of here. If he says one word, shoot him.
Don't you think you're overreacting?
Yes. The famous James Bond. I've heard all about you, sir. You were under direct orders to act as an observer  and yet you had to go off, on your own, like some halfassed CIA cowboy  Endangering the gold, attracting that lunatic woman, and then putting in a distress call for us to save your bloody hide.
...That's all well and good, Captain, save for one thing: There's no gold down there.
What are you talking about? We went through all this and the ship isn't even down there?
Yes, the ship is down there. But the gold is gone.
That's absurd! It took two squads of forty men fifteen days to load that gold.
I know what I saw 
Q! How are you?
Retired. I'm not getting paid to help you save the world anymore.
I'm sorry. It was a national emergency 
That hardly makes up for the imposition. Now, for what I hope will be the very last time  pay attention, 007. First, computer generated retrograde analysis map. Body here, meteorolog ical influences here, likely vector ing of the ship's coordinates here.
Do you have any idea of what any of that means? In English?
Not a clue. I didn't lose the ship. Next, your new personal communicator. Picturephone, fax, beeper.
Do I have to dial '9' to get out?
I don't care who you dial, so long as it's not me. Next 
Your new car.
 Four wheel drive?
Yes. And do try to keep all four of them on the road. All the usual refinements: Smoke, missiles, machine guns  Fully operational remote control. Drives forward, reverse  Stop that! Plus infrared thermal imaging radar, heads up instrumentation, and 17 beverage cup holders.
... 17 Beverage cup holders?
Standard equipment. The world's automobile manufacturers seem to be in some kind of mad war to see who can provide the most beverage cup holders.
I must say, Q, you seem to be doing rather well in your retirement.
Don't even think about it. 007. They're my granddaughters.
I'm sure she is, James. But I'm afraid you'll have to 'kiss off' the rest of your lessons this afternoon.
Moneypenny... Here I was, finally getting a feel for a new tongue 
Four o'clock. M will meet you in the conference room.
4:30. It may take me a little longer to wrap things up here.
Four o'clock. Don't be late.
Tsi tien, Chienpenny.
Ah, James. You always were a cunning linguist... Au revoir, mon cher.
Moneypenny! We've got to stop meeting like this. They may be on to us.
Hello, James. Enjoy your meeting?
In the darkest moments, it's what I live for. Especially since I've heard how much you like to watch... On the hidden camera.
By the way, James: Ordinarily I would never ask, but... Weren't you and that Colonel once stranded on a raft for two weeks in the Sargasso Sea?
Moneypenny! How indiscreet! Have you ever known me to kiss and tell?
Actually, I've never known you to do either... But 
 We all want what we can't have?
Not all of us, 007.
What  no lust for adventure?
No, 007. It's just that I've learned from personal experience  that when we get what we want  Somehow the reality is never as... Satisfying as the fantasy.
In the Strait of Malacca, when a boat is even five minutes late, one begins to worry, Mr. Bond.
I know. Pirates from Sumatra want the cargo; smugglers from Thailand and Burma want the ships.
Sometimes kill the crew; other times  Torture them.
I'm sorry.
The Kuala Lumpur ferry was 35 miles offcourse that night. Captain blamed the autopilot; I suspected he was drunk  until the Sumatra ferry captain had same problem.
Did you test the autopilots? The satellite positioning receiver?
Next morning. Both boats. Nothing wrong. My 90 year old grandfather thinks 'Ghost in the computer  Silicon Dragon.'
I appreciate your time 
Maybe you should talk to Sidney Winch. Owns a marine salvage company. Nobody knows more about the Strait.
Where can I find him?
Him? He, is a she  at the bar.
Always nice to meet one of her Majesty's fellow subjects... Especially one with such distinguished friends.
You might say I've always been one of Mr. Valentin's biggest followers.
It's a beautiful boat, Sir Elliot. Practically glows in the dark.
I can tell you're a man with an eye for exquisite possessions, Mr. Bond. Darling! Come here. I want you to meet my wife.
I hope you've enjoyed this little charade.
Which part? The Colonel's? Or yours?
A piece of advice, Mr. Bond: Don't screw with a man who buys ink by the ton. It's deadlier than uranium.
We'll see about that.
How did you get this number?
Oh, please, Mr. Bond. We live in the information age! Information is currency  and with the right currency, you can have any piece of information. Besides I own the phone company. What do you say? Twenty minutes?
I'm on my way.
Mr. Bond! Nice to see you.
Sir Elliot.
Come. Let's get out of the noise.  I'll give you a tour of the building, then we'll talk.
Before I became involved with Paris, she was always involved with the most inappropriate' men... Playboys. Thrill seekers. Middle aged Peter Pans who only brought out the worst in her.
I see.
I tried to save her. But she remained a manic depressive: Fits, inappropriate behavior... Delusions of grandeur.
I wonder if it runs in the family.
The only difference between a psychopath and a genius, Mr. Bond, is the degree of success.
Still, I do miss her. I only wish she could have lived to see all this.
I can feel your pain.
By the way  what is it that brings you to Kuala Lumpur, Mister Bond?
Sightseeing.
I call this the Rogue's gallery.
Yes. I can see: You've hung the rest of your relatives.
My third great Uncle  the Earl of Aberdeen  negotiated the purchase of Hong Kong from the Chinese. His soninlaw  George Harmsway  made the first family fortune, running opium into Shanghai... His son, Thomas, who lost it, smoking the opium... And my grandfather Henry, who opened the first telegraph station, and published the colony's first English newspaper. It was a city of unlimited possibility.
So why did you leave?
Because it's a dying city. Since the Chinese takeover, who knows what can happen tomorrow? In any case, this is my father, Charles: A royal bastard who started the first radio and television stations. Said I'd never amount to anything, but... I turned it into this
Welcome to the new world order, Mr. Bond. Churchill had his armies; Caesar had his legions; I have my divisions: News, sports, business, entertainment. And these are my foot soldiers: 2000 people working on 14 floors to feed 300 newspapers, 4 cable news networks, 87 magazines, and 29 different cable TV channels  in 35 languages.
And still not a thing to watch.
...Although it must be fun to have all those satellites.
They're merely tools to disseminate information.
Or disinformation... If you wanted to, say, beam down a signal to send a ship off course? Maybe one degree a minute?
Fantastic idea Mr. Bond! Perhaps I should buy it for a book! It's totally preposterous, but  You amuse me. ...And now perhaps I can amuse you.
You see, Mr. Bond, you and I are both men of action. But your era is passing. Words are the new weapons; satellites the new artillery. And make no mistake about it: In the right hands, they can be as deadly as your Walther PPK.
...Words to live by?
Your choice. Look at the time! Come. There's someone I want you meet  about a story I'm thinking of publishing.
Briefly.
Don't pout, Sidney. I invited him here hoping he might shed some light on your story. He's from 'Lloyd's of London.' ...Aren't you, Mr. Bond?
...And what's that, my dear?
Sidney, perhaps we should leave this to 
I'm sure they will.
Goodbye, Mister Bond.
Are your guards really going to kill a helpless girl?
My guards are from South Africa, Mr. Bond. This is their chance to get even with the formerly 'Great' Britain. Now both of you. Put your hands on your heads, and step forward.
...So that's what the weapons grade uranium was for.
Precisely, Mr. Bond. In a matter of minutes, the boring device will arrive at the core of the reactor... And when the radioactive blades cut into the plutonium 
 Instant meltdown.
Chernobyl will look like a campfire.
...As the advertising says: Tomorrow never lies.
What about the gold?
I'd rather die alone.
Take the girl. Leave the handcuffs. We'll drown her at sea.
Good evening. I've just spoken with the Prime Minister at the economic summit in Tokyo; he's expecting a full update within the hour. For those of you still unaware, some forty minutes ago 
Excuse me, but  I must formally protest this meeting. Given the nature of what's occurred  and the need for secrecy  I see no reason to involve the air force, the army, or MI6. This is an internal affair that should be handled strictly by the officers of her Majesty's Royal Navy.
Admiral, are you suggesting 
Why wasn't the ship protected?!?! Why was it sailing without radar?
I resent your tone, sir. I have men who are missing 
And I have the entire British economy to worry about.
At least we know where the gold is. When are the recovery ships due?
36 hours. They've already sailed from the Persian gulf.
I expect to have that gold recovered in 36 hours. Until then, I'm imposing my own electronic silence: For the sake of the economy, not a word to NATO, the press, the CIA. ...And so long as Commander Bond here seems to be such an expert on these matters, I want him to go along as an observer. Are we agreed?
... What were you saying, Admiral? Something about this 'not being a job for a winesniffing, skirtchasing playboy spy?'
 I'll be sure to acknowledge 007's 'assistance' in my report to the Prime Minister. But this is, still, a naval operation.
What do they say in Russia, General Bukharin?
But 
 Thank you, M. But this is more than your man can handle. Are we in agreement?
I appreciate your assistance, M. But this is now a military operation.
Bring up the tracking satellite. And get 007 out of there.
It's too late 
GET BOND OUT OF THERE.
What about all these saloons?
Ah, now that's the real mother Lode in Tombstone. Up and down Allen Street, fullblast 24 hours A day, liquor, hostesses, Gamblin', makin' money hand over Fist. All except the Oriental. On Account of the element. Have a Man for breakfast in there most Days. Regular slaughter house. Highrollers won't go near it. Too bad, nice place.
See what I mean about it getting Spooky?
Curly Bill, huh? Who was that Other idiot?
Ike Clanton, Old Man's eldest Son. Know he ain't got the stuff, Makes him miserable.
Yeah, and dangerous.
Why don't you just leave it alone?
No, I gotta do something. I don't Suppose you'd card
None of my business, Fred.
Alliegirl...And Louisa! You're So lovely. I'm at your feet, Darlin'. Just at your feet. Guess it's only right. Ma always Said you were the prettiest.
But she doted on the frowner
Look at that. Busted. Brand new Money Ward, too. 33 years old And I don't even have a decent Watch. 'Bout time I started Lookin' out for myself.
Well here we are a family again. Been so long plain forgot how Good it feels. Want to thank you For that, Wyatt. All your doin'.
We're gonna do it, boys. Gonna Get ours. Feel it in my bones. All we have to do is keep our Eyes on that brass ring.
Well that's your problem. Hey Virge, see anything of Doc while You were in Prescott?
Hit a streak when we left. Him And Kate.
Look pretty rough.
Just like any other hard cases. Gotta know how to handle 'em.
Well we're off and running. Just Acquired us a quarterinterest in The game at the Oriental.
Acquired?
So to speak.
Her maiden name was Sullivan.
Better go with 'em, honey. Here's Where I leave you.
Keep your eye on that brass ring. Don't let anything sidetrack you.
I know, I need a keeper.
You know, I was thinkin', maybe We ought to open our own place. That's the real money. Build it Up, milk it for all it's worth, Then sell it off for a bundle and Breeze out of this burg with more Money than Croesus and ready to Live like kings. Let's you and me Take a walk around town, Virge, See if we can scout us out a Couple of nice lots.
I can't hardly believe it. It's Working out just like you said, Wyatt. We're lootin' this burg Six ways through Sunday.
Pretty fun too, isn't it?
Kinda, actually, yeah. I gotta admit.
I couldn't help it, Wyatt. I Looked at that woman and it was Just like somebody slapping me in The face. I mean these people're Afraid to even walk down the Street and I'm trying to make Money off it like some kind of God damn vulture. That's not me, That's somebody I don't even know.
Virgil, please. Don't do this to me.
It's got nothin' to do with you, Wyatt. It's
Nothing to do with me? I'm your Brother for Christ's sake. God, I Don't believe this. Talk to him, will you? Or hit him. Oh no, don't tell me...
Maybe I jumped the gun. Maybe Those Cowboys aren't near as bad As they're painted. You know I Was thinkin', there's a lot of Money in the cattle business...
Wait a minute, you thinkin' of Getting in bed with the Cowboys?
Business is business. Don't have To love 'em to work with 'em. Not If there's money in it.
You are the one, Wyatt. You sure are.
Billy Clanton, Wes Fuller, and Billy Claiborne. Now there's six Of 'em. This is like a bad dream.
Just stay calm, use your head. It'll be all right. Just the Same, though... Guess you better swear me in.
Here they are again. Look at 'em.
Easy, Virge, they're just tryin' To egg us on.
Wait till the liquor wears off. Once they start getting headaches They'll lose interest.
Wyatt, they're threatening our lives.
You'll never make that stick.
They're carrying guns in town.
Virge, that's a misdemeanor. You Go down there to arrest 'em, Something goes wrong, maybe this Time somebody gets his head Broke, suddenly it's a mess and It won't end there, you'll have Cowboys comin' around lookin' for Trouble from here to Christmas. You gonna risk all that over a Misdemeanor?
No, damn it, it's wrong, they're Breakin' the law.
All right, Virge, your call. But Give Doc the shotgun. They'll be Less apt to get nervy if they see Him on the street howitzer.
Virge, you're makin' the arrest. You make contact, I'll back you Up. Morgan'll back me up, Doc'll Keep an eye out for trouble. And Keep your hands on your guns. They even look like they're gonna Start something, buffalo 'em. Right over the head.
Wyatt, I know what I'm doin'.
Look at 'em all. They love it. How in the hell'd we get Ourselves into this?
Getting late. Guess I'll turn in.
Bundle up, Virge. Cold out there.
Virgil?
Wyatt...
Easy, gents. Private affair... Wyatt! Doc! Hey!
Jack...
Way ahead of you, Wyatt. You want Us to help you get Ike Clanton And Johnny Behan. Everybody knows They're the ones to blame for Your brothers.
They're nothing. They're nobody. I want the Cowboys. All of 'em. I Mean to break 'em up, drive 'em Out of the territory.
Got a sheaf of federal warrants. Being in the Territories it's up To our discretion how they're Served. That means we got the Cowboys without quarter. The Black flag, brother. No Prisoners, no mercy, amen.
500... Year's wages. And I never even saw a horse like that.
Talked it over. We decided we Don't need the money. Took out 13 Dollars each, though. Federal Posseman's fee. That all right?
Sure...
We should get moving.
Doc's just in no kinda shape.
You back that Queen again, you Son of a bitch, I'll blow you Right out of that chair! Somethin' on your mind?
Just wanted to let you know You're sitting in my chair.
That a fact?
Yeah. It's a fact.
For a man that don't go heeled You run your mouth kinda reckless.
Don't need to go heeled to get The bulge on a dub like you.
That a fact?
Yeah. It's a fact.
Well I'm real scared.
Go ahead. Skin it. Skin that Smoke wagon and see what happens.
Listen Mister, I'm getting' tired
Well how do we look?
Hey! Virgil! My God! Morgan! Hey, Boy! You look great! Both of you!
Give him some good exercise? Sure Some stud. Some string in fact. What're you gonna do, race 'em?
Hope so. Clean up with this boy.
Boy, look at all those stars. Bet You can see every star there is. Practical touch 'em. Kinda makes You think, you know? I mean you Look up and you think God made All that but he still remembered To make a little speck like me. Kinda flattering really. Hey, Wyatt, you believe in God? No, Come on, really, do you?
Maybe, yeah. Hell, I don't know.
Well what do you think happens When you die?
Got me. Somethin'. Nothin'. I Don't know.
I read this book, book on Spiritualism...
Really? What about hell? They got A sign or what?
Hey, Wyatt, God damn it, I'm serious!
Wyatt, meet Fred White, he's town marshal.
Lotta law around here. Just met the Sheriff.
It's that woman from the coach!
I'll be damned...
Hey Doc! Come on now.
Just his style, Morg. Doesn't Mean anything.
Listen to me, both of you. This Is no good. This is trouble we Don't need. For the first time in Our lives we got a chance to stop Wandering and finally be a Family. Do this and you throw it All away. You saw what happened To Fred White.
Come on, we're not about pickin' Fights. Just gonna keep a little Order, that's all.
Yeah?
Like you said, just gotta know How to handle 'em. Old Fred Wasn't up to it. We know that We're doin', Wyatt.
All right, say you're right, say You don't get yourself killed. There's something else. It's too late for Virge, he Already rolled his bone. But it's Not too late for you, Morg.
What're you talkin' about?
Doc won't quit, been up 36 hours. Clanton came in an hour ago, they Switched over to poker. Tried to Get him to bed but he just won't Let go.
I know. And nobody can make him.
How you doin', boy?
Fine. Better.
You were right. It's nothin' like I thought. I almost wish...
I know, kid. I know. Me too.
Dropped him, that was it. Sorry If I made a worse mess for you.
I'm the one made a mess. Made a Right fair mess of the whole thing.
That thunder's sure somethin'.
That didn't sound like thunder.
Get down, boy.
Morgan, are you crazy? They're Out gunning for us! What the Hell're you doin'?
What's it look like? They want a Piece of me they can come and get It, I'm not crawlin' into my hole.
Morg, use your head.
I am usin' it, Wyatt. Been Wonderin' how the hell we got in This tangle. You know they hit Clum's house, too? Shot up his wife. His wife. Who ever heard of That? Men sneakin' around in the Dark, backshootin', scarin' Women? They're bugs, Wyatt. You Know all your smart talk about Live and let live? Ain't no live And let live with bugs.
I know, I was wrong. But Morg, Look, we got to get out.
Listen to yourself, Wyatt. Lie Down and crawl or you might get Hurt? What kinda talk is that? That's Virgil lyin' over there, Wyatt. Our own brother. Ruined For life. No sir, I ain't going No place. You want to go, fine. I'm stayin' right here and have It out with those bastards.
I just got it fixed.
You're on.
You were right, Wyatt. They got Me good. Don't let 'em get you Too.
Will somebody get the damn dog out
Remember about the light you're Supposed to see when you're dyin'?
Easy Morg, don't think about that now.
Isn't true. I can't see a damn thing.
Run for your lives, boys! It's That great twogun dogcatcher From Kansas!
McMasters, isn't it? Listen, you Seen a black stallion with
Look, I got a rule. I don't talk To lawmen. Dogcatchers neither.
I'm not a lawman, I'm just a Private citizen getting' my Property back
Well in that case, I saw your Horse. Billy Clanton was takin' Him up to the Cut to show him Off. The boys're all up there Right now, branding. And in a Mood. Still want your property Back, Mr. Private Citizen?
So what about you Cowboys anyway?
If I had to explain it you Wouldn't understand. Just say We're brothers to the bone.
Yeah, but some of the things they Say your brothers've done...
There's all kinds of horses, Ain't there? Same with Cowboys. What they do's their affair. I Don't preach and I don't judge. I Ain't no dogcatcher.
No, wait. Please. I know nothin' I say'll fix things but I want You to know it wasn't me.
No? Brothers to the bone, right?
Not anymore, not after this.
I ain't your brother, I ain't None of your damn brothers. Move!
All right, run 'em off.
Florentino! He's getting away!
Drop his horse.
I know that cut. You mean there's A waterhole near there?
But this time they'll be ready.
We'll see about that.
What'd you do that for?
So he can tell the story.
Next waterhole's Black Draw. We Could be there by midmorning.
They're wise by now. Which is Next, Iron Springs? Yeah, let's Try there, Iron Springs.
There they are. No herd though.
We'll go around that way, come up on foot.
I don't like it.
Might as well hear him out. Anyways, what choice we got? But no matter what happens, see It through to the end. If you don't I'll curse the day I ever laid eyes on you.
Well hello, Sherm.
You wanted to talk?
Yeah, kinda, wanted to see if you'd join back up with us.
That what you got me up here for?
You're a Cowboy, you're a Brother. Come back, no hard Feelings.
Forget it, Ringo.
Isn't there anything I can say That'll change your mind? You're Gonna stay with your new friends?
'Least they don't scare women.
You're the boss. One thing, though.
Wyatt, I couldn't find a single Store that had laudanum any
Mattie, they're here! Folks this Is Celia Ann but you can call her Mattie. Or even Mrs. Earp if you Prefer.
Come up to the fire, honey.
I think I'll just lie down awhile
Long as I live I'll never Get used to that sound.
They're just lonely is all. Hell, I howl myself sometimes.
You get lonely?
No, stay. Please stay with me.
Honey, I gotta start makin' money.
Oh, all right.
Well I guess I don't have to go Right now. I guess I could stay a little while.
No, no, I don't want to keep you.
No really, I can stay a while.
Just go. It's all right. Wyatt, Really. Work well.
All right, well, good night.
That the bottle Lou gave you? Better go easy on that stuff.
I know what I'm doing. Where have You been?
Out ridin'. So... how you doin'?
I don't know. I'm all right.
Really? You sure?
Sure I'm sure. What is this?
Well, I was thinking, we've Already made a pile of money. Maybe we should just pull up Stakes and move on. And we could Stay on the move, you know? Just Keep going, see the world. Live On room service the rest of our Lives. How'd that be?
Wyatt, what're you talkin' about?
Just thinkin' out loud. Forget it.
Thought you swore you'd never Carry that thing again.
Yeah, well, I swore a lot of things.
Mattie. What about this?
I need it.
'Least you admit it.
Admit what, I'm an opium fiend? No, Wyatt, I just said I need it. I need something to keep me warm At night.
Look, Mattie, I know you're
You know nothing. What you don't Know would fill a book. Jesus, I Feel like it's when you're around I need it most. You're never Yourself, you never relax. Never. Everything's so stiff and dead. You always have to keep a rein on Everything, ever yourself. Oh, You smile sometimes, I've even Seen you laugh. But there's no Light in your smile for me, Wyatt, nothing to keep me warm. And I get cold, Wyatt. I get so cold. What's between you and that Jew woman?
All right, look. I can make it Right, I can make this up to you, Mattie. I can, I swear.
Will you go to her and tell her Right in front of me she's Nothing to you? Right out loud so I can hear? Tell her she's Nothing, tell her she's nobody, Just dirt? Will you do that?
What can I get you?
Let me have one of those cigars. Kinda nice in here. You run it?
Milt Joyce, owneroperator.
Well, excuse me for askin', Milt, But isn't it kinda dead in here?
You see that bird at the faro Table? That's Johnny Tyler. He Barged in here one day, said he Was takin' over the game, started Slappin' customer, wavin' his Gun around, scarin' off all the Highclass play. Only trade comes In here now's just bummers and Drovers, just the dregs.
Why don't you get rid of him and Get yourself straight dealer?
Well sure, neighbor, easy to say.
Those Cowboys're tellin' Everybody in town they're gonna Clean you out. They're down in That lot right now behind the OK Corral.
Don't worry, Doc, it's not your problem. You don't have to mix up in this.
We've never actually met. My Name's
Wyatt Earp, I know. I was Beginning to think we'd never Meet. This is fortuitous. That Means lucky.
I know what it means.
What is it?
Easy now... That mare's in season.
Oh... Now she's starting. How do they know?
They know. It's the scent. We Better split 'em up.
I have a better idea, let's run It out of them!
That was lovely!
You know you almost got us both Killed back there?
Fun though, wasn't it?
You'd die for fun?
Wouldn't you? You're laughing! I Was sure you never laughed.
I laugh sometimes
Yes, but how often? Tell me, are You happy?
Am I happy? I don't know. Happy As the next man, I guess. I don't Laugh all day long like an idiot, If that's what you mean.
You're a little touchy about it.
I'm not touchy, I just, it's a Silly question, that's all. Am I Happy? Are you happy?
Of course, I'm always happy. Unless I'm bored. That blonde Woman, is that your wife?
What about her?
Nothing... Tell me, what do you Want out of life?
Where do you get these questions?
Just answer.
I don't know, make some money, Have some kids, you know.
Doesn't suit you.
How would you know?
Just doesn't, that's all.
Well I ought to know my own mind And I'm tellin' you what suits me Is a family and kids. That suits Me right down to the ground. In Fact, that's my idea of heaven. All right, what's your idea of heaven?
Room service.
See? You're laughing again. But That's what I want. Go places and Move and never look back and just Have fun. Forever. That's my idea Of heaven. Need someone to share It with, though.
You mean Behan? Then why are you with him?
Well he's handsome and he's Charming. He's all right. For Now. Don't say it, I know, I'm Rotten. I can't help it. I've Tried to be good but it's too Boring.
The way you talk. Never heard a Woman talk like that.
Oh look, I haven't got time to be Proper, I want to live. I'm a woman, I like men. If that's Unladylike then I guess I'm not a Lady. At least I'm honest.
Well you're different, no arguing That. But you're a lady all right. I'll take my oath on it.
What's wrong?
I don't know, doesn't make any Sense. I almost can't look at You. Like it hurts.
I know, me too. What should we do About it?
You know this is adultery. You Burn in hell for that.
Then let's make sure we get our Money's worth
I must say this certainly has Been an unexpected little Windfall.
Fortuitous even.
And I don't even know your full name.
Easy to fix. Wyatt Berry Stapp Earp.
And I'm Josephine Sarah Marcus. My friends call me Josie.
Josie... No, I'm gonna call you Sadie.
I hate Sadie.
Well you'll always be Sadie to me.
Always?
Getting late. We better get back.
So I assume we're regarding this As just a kind of interlude.
Look, it's too much of a tangle. I already cast my lot. I can't go Back and I can't sneak, feel back Enough as it is.
You feel bad about this? About me?
I didn't mean it that way.
You know you don't have to sneak. You could stay with me. I know Things, Wyatt. Sweet things. I Could make you so happy.
I can't, I'm sorry. Forgive me.
No, no, get away, get away from me...
Wyatt...
Sorry about your friend. And I'm sorry about...
I forgave you the moment you said it.
You did. Well... thank you.
I have to go.
Wait!
Wyatt! My God...
Did you ever see the sun come up Over the Rockies? It hits all of A sudden and below there's California and you swear you're Looking at heaven.
I have nothing left. I have Nothing to give you. I have no Pride, no dignity, no money. I Don't even know how we'll make a Living. But I promise I'll love You every second of your life.
Don't worry, Wyatt. My family's rich.
There they go. Look kinda like preachers.
Yeah. Or undertakers.
You know, we might just pull this off.
Not so sure. Somethin' tells me It gets harder from here in. Should've held out for more money.
Yeah, better run, you bastards!
How is he?
Hey Creek, you ever see anything Like that before?
Never even heard of anything like it.
Wyatt, listen, you can't beat Him. You're good and God knows You got the courage, but you Ain't in Ringo's class. Hell, He's the best that's ever been. 'Cept maybe for Wild Bill.
He's right, Wyatt. Ringo could Put five into you before you Could even get one into him.
Praise Jesus!
I'll be dipped in shit. I will, too.
We're the law, ain't we? Well the Law don't ride around vermin
It rides right at 'em. Like McMasters said, see it through to The end.
Hello, Wyatt! Hiya Doc!
What was that all about?
Are you out of your mind? What on Earth'd make us
I'll pay you 500 each in advance And I'll mount you on those.
Maybe you ought to have a talk With Doc, Wyatt. I don't know if He's gonna make it.
There's no reasoning with him.
No.
What?
No.
See how she breezed out of here. Like she had wings. Funny thing But I can't really remember how She looked. I can remember parts Of her clear as crystal, her Mouth, her walk, how she shut her Eyes when she laughed, little Bits and pieces, but not the Whole package. Can't put it Together for some reason.
Good God, you're really
Cards in spades. I'm in love with Every second of her life. Hell, I'll probably love her when I'm dust.
You tell Ringo... just tell him I'll be there.
Wyatt, are you crazy?
I made a promise.
But I'd do it, I'd get that one Into him. So help me God, I would.
All right Wyatt, maybe you can. But you gotta die to do it. Understand? You gotta die!
Wyatt, I... I ain't got the words.
I know. Me neither.
All right, what's it to be? New Mexico's that way.
Colorado's closer
So're the Cowboys. They're up That road right now, waiting to Jump us.
All right, I'm on fire! Black Seven, seven stickin' spades. Let's go!
I'm your man... You win again. Well played, sir. You are on fire.
Told you. I'm red hot, I'm Blazin'! Now, red seven. Seven Stinkin' diamonds. Look out! Five Thousand! Let's go!
Awful lot of money.
Can't take the heat, get outta The kitchen.
You're the doctor. sad news, friend.
Damn! All right, wait a minute...
Drunks. Crawfished a bet, called Him a liar. I saw the whole thing.
Sheriff, may I present a pair of Fellow sophisticates, Turkey Creek Jack Johnson and Texas Jack Vermillion? Watch your ear, Creek.
Don't touch me!
Sorry...
You really look awful.
Not half as bad as I feel.
Then why in hell're you doin' This? You ought to be in bed.
Wyatt Earp is my friend.
Hell, I got lot's of friends.
I don't.
I don't believe it. He's clean!
What? But I saw 'em
I'm telling you, there isn't a Mark on him.
Hey, is that "Old Dog Tray"? Sounds like "Old Dog Tray".
What?
You know, Stephen Foster. "Oh, Susanna". "Camptown Races", Stephenstinkin'Foster!
I see, well this happens to be a Nocturne.
A which?
You know, FredericfuckingChopin.
Doc! How the hell are you?
Perfect, Wyatt. Simply perfect.
Since when is faro a business?
Didn't you always say gambling's An honest trade?
I said poker's an honest trade. Only suckers buck the tiger. The Odds are all with the house.
Depends how you look at it. I Mean it's not like anybody's Holding a gun to their heads.
That's what I love about Wyatt. He can talk himself into anything.
Sheriff Behan, Doc Holliday.
Forgive me if I don't shake hands.
Very cosmopolitan.
I know him. That's Creek Johnson.
Very instructive
But who was the Devil?
So now we're in the mining Business. Turning into regular Tycoons. Gonna call this one the Mattie Blaylock. Mattie'll get a Kick out of that, it's her maiden Name.
And what a maiden, pure as the Driven snow, I'm sure.
So tell me, Wyatt. I'm curious. Do you actually consider youself A married man? Forsaking all Others?
Well yeah. Pretty much. I mean I Was no angel when we met but People change Doc. I mean sooner Or later you gotta grow up.
I see. And what would you do if "she" walked in her right now? WYATT "She"?
You know damn well who I mean. That duskyhued lady Satan.
I don't know. Probably ignore her.
Ignore her?
I'd ignore her. People can Change, Doc.
I'll remember you said that.
Satisfied?
I stand corrected. Wyatt. You're An oak.
He's drunk.
In vino veritas.
Maybe I ought to go out there.
You will or you won't. Don't look To me. I'm going to sleep.
Wyatt! Just in time. Pull up a chair.
Been hittin' it awful hard, Doc.
Nonsense, I have not yet begun to Defile myself.
But Doc
I won't be pawed at, thank you Very much
Sorry, sorry...
It appears he missed an excellent Chance to keep his mouth shut.
Felt his liver go on that last One. Get him to a doctor or he'll Be dead in a couple hours.
Wyatt, my God! You're shot to pieces!
No...
I'm a man without fear, Wyatt. I Literally don't care if I live or Die. But even I can't fight human Instinct. Somebody suddenly Starts shooting at me, I duck. But you... what on earth were You thinking about?
I don't know. It all happened so Fast. If I'd had a chance to Think about it I guess I probably Would've been scared but... Swear To God, Doc, I just don't know.
Doc...
Don't touch me, God damn it! Just Don't touch me! Come on...
What makes a man like Ringo, Doc? What makes him do the things he does?
A man like Ringo's got a great Empty hole right through the Middle of him and no matter what He does he can't ever fill it. He Can't kill enough or steal enough Or inflict enough pain to ever Fill it. And it drives him mad. Sick mad. Cold and dirty.
So what does he want?
What does he want? He wants revenge.
Revenge? For what?
I'm sorry. I'm sorry, Wyatt. God, I'm so sorry.
That's all right, Doc. Don't worry.
Never got to wear one of those.
Well hell, Wyatt. Wyatt, I want You to meet Father Feeney. Father Feeney's just been initiating me Into the mysteries of the great And ancient Church of Rome. You See, it appears my hypocrisy Knows no bounds.
How you feelin', Doc?
Rather an obvious question under The circumstances, don't you Agree? A better one might be how Do you feel?
Hurts. Hurts pretty bad.
I imagine it would, yes. So now We can add selfpity to your list Of frailties.
All right, Doc...
You think I'm kidding. You're the Most fallible, wrongheaded, self Deluding, just generally Benighted jackass I've ever Known. Yet, withal, even at your Worst, you're the only human Being in my entire life who ever Gave me hope.
All I ever wanted was to live a Normal life.
When will you wake up? You Wouldn't know a normal life if it Bit you in the ass.
That's great coming from you.
I played the cards I was dealt, Wyatt. Your problem is you're Always trying to play someone Else's. Allow me to tell you the Truth and thus set you free: There is no happiness, Wyatt There is no normal life. There's Only life, that's all. Just life. The rest is relative.
Then what do I do?
First you can grab that black Haired woman and make her your own.
All right. Then what?
Run. Take that girl and start Running. Run and don't look back. All your life you been running And looking back and just barely Existing and calling it getting By. This time run and don't look Back and call it living. Live Every second, live it right up to The hilt. Live, Wyatt... Live for me.
Here, Doc.
Bless you, darling Darling! Are you mad? You're not Wearing a bustle. How lewd!
I calculate that's the end of This town. And let's don't bother About the luggage, darling.
I been having the boy at the Hotel pack us up every night Since your streak started
You don't even know him.
Yes, but there's just something About him. Something around The eyes, I don't know, reminds me Of... me. No. I'm sure of it, I Hate him.
That's my lovin' man. Just can't Get enough.
Enough? Never.
What's wrong, Doc?
Nothing. Not a thing. I'm right As the mail.
How you feeling, Doc?
Better.
That's good. I knew it wasn't nothin'.
We must talk, darling. It appears We have to... redefine the nature Of our association.
What's that mean, Doc? You know I Don't understand when you talk up High like that. You mean you Don't want to be my lovin' man no more?
Not exactly...
I'm a good woman to you, Doc. Don't I always take care of you? Nobody cares for you like me. I'm A good woman.
Yes, I know. You are a good woman.
That's the rumor.
You retired, too?
Not me. I'm in my prime.
Yeah, you look it.
And you must be Ringo. Look, Darling, Johnny Ringo. The Deadliest pistoleer since Wild Bill, they say. What do you Think, darling? Should I hate him?
Age quod agis.
Credat Judaeus Apella.
Ecentus stultorum magister.
In pace requiescat.
That's just my game.
All right, lunger. Have at it.
On three? You call it.
Here it come: onetwo
Why Johnny Ringo, you look like Somebody just walked over your grave. Oh, I wasn't quite as sick as I Made out.
My fight's not with you, Holliday.
I beg to differ. We started a Fight we never got to finish. Play for blood, remember?
I was kidding about that.
All right, lunger. Let's do it.
Say when.
Forget it.
Excuse me?
I said forget it, answer's no, I Don't want the job and that's Final. I'm going to Tombstone and Nothin' short of dyin's gonn Stop me. Good day.
But wait, you don't understand
No Marshal, you don't understand. I'm through with lawing, I'm Through with the whole Proposition. Forever. I did my Duty, now I'd like to get on with My life. That is if you don't Mind. Jesus. Good day now.
I see, off to strike it rich, Huh. All right, fine, wish you Luck. Tell you this though, never Was a rich man yet didn't wind up With a guilty conscience.
Already got a guilty conscience, Might as well have the money too.
I'm retired.
Good. That's real good.
Come on, you...
Crack me back of the head like Some stinkin' bull. Hell, you Ain't no fightin' man, you're Just a cop.
Feel bad about ol' Fred. Just Can't hold back when I'm feelin' Woolly. Still, feel kinda bad. But now we're square. Anyway no Use for holdin' a grudge. I Deserved a rap in the head.
Make you a deal. My brother took Over the Marshal's office in Tombstone. Got it in his head He's gonna make the place safe For widows and orphans. You and Your boys stay out of his way, I'll make sure he stays out of yours.
Fair enough. You know I got to Admit, you got a lot of bark on You comin' up here like this.
They were all gonna jump me back There. What ever happened to one Against one?
Ain't our way. We go all on one, One on all. Fight one of us, you Fight us all. That's the Cowboy way.
And how come you call yourselves Cowboys? Cowhands ride for the brand.
Oh, we ride for a brand all right. This brand. How 'bout you?
This brand.
We're gonna get along just fine.
I'm sorry. If there was any other
I know. Just did what you had to. That banner and stuff, that's Just Ike. Don't worry about it.
I want you to know it's over. We're leaving and we're not Coming back.
Well... 'bye.
Look at that! Yeah! Come and get Some, boy!
No...
Let me, let me, yeah! Die, you Bastard...
No...
What'd the Messican mean, a sick Horse's gonna get us? Didn't make No sense.
He was quoting the bible, Revelations: "Behold a pale horse And the one that sat on him was Death and Hell followed with him."
Well now that's a little more Like it.
Shut up, Ike.
And you must be Doc Holliday.
I want them spitting blood!
Easy, Johnny. Now ain't the time. I tell you, boys, even I'm Worried what'll happen once Ringo Runs this outfit! God have mercy!
There's no God, there's no devil, I hate the God damn world! I want To die!
Easy, son. You just need to get Your feet back under you, that's All. Come on, boy, let's kick South. Down to the old playground.
Hey, you smell that? Smells like Something died.
Oh, Jesus, Johnny...
He said to turn loose of him.
Well I'm not so go home.
Where'd you get that horse?
Beauty, ain't he?
I asked where you got him.
Where do you think? I stole him.
Look, I don't want any trouble With you but that's my horse and I mean to have him back. One way Or another.
Come and get him.
Look kid, I know what it's like, I was a kid, too. Even stole a Horse once. But you can't
The man dealing faro. Who is he?
That's Wyatt Earp. Made quite a Name for himself as a peace Officer in Kansas.
A peace officer... Impressive man
Yes, very. And very married.
Oh, so that's it...
Well I guess you can see, never a Dull moment. Maybe you should Stay around to see what happens Next. Who know? You might find a Future here.
Maybe even my destiny.
I saw that look on your face just now. What's between you and Wyatt?
Absolutely nothing.
Listen, I want to talk to you.
Not now. I don't have time.
I saw that look pass between you And Wyatt at the fight. Listen to Me! You're mine! Understand? You're my woman and I'm your man.
My man? You told Wyatt you'd Disarmed those men. Do you Actually believe after that I Could see you as my man? You're Just a dirty little fixer.
You whore! You filthy whore!
Easy. I just wanted to tell you Things're about to start changing Around here. Lots of socalled Hard cases and toughnuts swagger Around this town but none of 'em's got a clue about the real play. None of 'em.
I don't understand.
You will after tonight. Bet on it.
Newcomers, eh? Names John Behan, I'm Cochise County Sheriff. Just Hit town?
Just this minute. I'm Wyatt Earp, These're my brothers
Wyatt Earp...Dodge City, right?
Gave all that up. Going into business.
Well I'm the man to see. Besides Sheriff I'm also tax collector, Captain of the Fire Brigade, and Chairman of the Nonpartisan Anti Chinese league. A man of many Parts. Got a place to stay yet? I Also sit on the Townlot Commission. Got a couple of Lovely cottages coming up for Rent. Here, let me show you...
So how's Tombstone treating you?
Fine, fine. But I was thinkin', You know what this town really Needs is a race track.
Actually, you know, that's not a Bad idea, send a signal we're Growing up.
What d'you think of the singer?
Nice voice.
That's not what I meant.
I said that's 500 to you, Holliday. In or out?
500? Sly boots, must be a peach of a hand.
Oh, for Christ's sake!
Ed Bailey, you look like you're Just ready to burst. Well call me A fool but I guess I'll just have To call. Cover your ears, darling.
God damn son of a...
Isn't that a daisy?
Just pick up your money and go. Sick of listening to you simper.
Now Ed, are we cross?
Skinny lunger, your guns don't Impress me. Wasn't for those guns You'd be nothin'.
Why Ed, what an ugly thing to Say! Does this mean you're not my Friend anymore? You know, Ed, if I thought you weren't my friend I Don't think I could bear it.
Oh, my God...
Does it hurt? A lot? Good.
Everything in order, sir? What are <U>you</U> doing here, my lad?
Telegrams.
Wellget a move on yerthen get back to yer station.
Nothin'.
Let me look at it.
Ain't got time.
Heyyou! Where you going?
I tell yuh I ain't got no bracelet
I saw him take the bracelet out of that shoe.
Yer crazy!I ain't got no bracelet.
Then why did you run away?
Because you ran after me.
I thought I had our sailing covered up and here it is.
Do you think Lother could have seen it?
Isn't it great to be away from it all? Aren't you happy? It seems too good to be true.
Sure, Sis.
Aren't the roses beautiful?
I'm all right.
You saw him sitting out there in front, didn't you?
I was in his cabin
What!are you crazy?
I'll explain later
If he comes near you again, I'll break his neck
There you are, sir.
Thank you.
Thirty one's and two ten's?
He's certainly goodnatured.
"Smooth's" the word.
I meana lot of gentlemen would be offended if you searched them like that.
It all depends on what you're used to.
Well, I'll be a son of a sea cook!
What's the matter?
Nothin I just remembered the name of a guy that owes me fifty bucks.
It's getting kind of chilly on deck. If you'll excuse me, I think I'll go to bed. Good night, Mr. McKinney!
Good night!
Congratulations.
Exciting, wasn't it? Where's Jimmy?
He'll be back. What would you do if anybody gave you a bracelet?
Say, "Thanks very much!"
I mean if you knew it were stolen.
Well, of course, I wouldn't take it.
And if you liked the person, you'd naturally persuade him to give it back and go straight, wouldn't you?
Sure I wouldbut I don't get what you're driving at.
Maybe you will after you've thought it over.
That's the truthevery single word!
I sincerely hope so
Why should <U>I</U> kill him?
For a very excellent reason from your own admission I'm not saying you <U>did</U>but I think you know more than you're telling. Years of experience have taught me to mistrust circumstantial evidence. Nevertheless, in your case there's plenty of it.
Soon as I get that bracelet back I'm going to relax. Wish the guy that borrowed it would help me outI got to win that fifty bucks.
I've got a hunch you're going to win that bet, Inspector.
I hope so. Well, I guess you two can do without me. I'll be seeing you.
Next time I get a vacation I'll spend it at headquarters. Goodnight.
He's a swell person. He told me he'd rather turn one guy straight than jug a million.
Yes, Yes!
You didn't have a gun in your hand last night?
No!
S'pose you've never thought of killing him
I wouldn't say that I'm glad he's deadyesI'd thought of killing him but I didn't
Why?
Because I was yellow, I guess
I tried to borrow a gun from Chad, but
This is interesting Why didn't you tell me you gave this kid your gun last night?
All rightbut what is there to face? It's finished.
You ran away because you were afraid. I don't want it to end like that.
I didn't want to see you againthat's my privilege.
It wasn't smart. Even if you'd gotten away without me I'd have found youno matter where you were.
Why don't you leave me alone?
Because I want youwill always want youno other woman'll ever take your place. I want you more now than I did that first night You've forgotten all that, I suppose?
I wish I could.
Get wise to yourself, Sallyyou're no sob story.
You get wise to <U>yourself</U>! If you know what's good for you, you'll leave me alone. Everybody's entitled to one mistakeWellyou're mine. When the going got too rough, I pulled up stakes and quit. We stay quit!Get that!And what're you going to do about it?
That's more like the old Sallya little bit of fire. How about Ned?
He's all right.
Thanks to me.
You leave the kid alone.
A tipoff in the right quarter to take his fingerprints and
you'd go with him!
Don't kid yourselfyou know how I stand back there.
Not because of Ned.
Of course not but isn't it a coincidence that he's from the eighteenth precinctwhere they made the squawk?
You can't bluff me any more.
I'm crazy about the kid and I got him into it. What do you want me to do?
Just smile again and be reasonable. I'll order dinner herejust the two of uslike old times.
and you swear when you get to the other side, you'll never come near either of us again?
That's a betbut I couldn't let you walk out like that, Sally. I'd have gone cuckoo back therejust thinking about you
Don't, Leethat's dead.
Let's see if I can bring it back to life.
Go aheadyou didn't used to be so fussy
I've lost my taste for knickknacks
Don't be a mug all your lifeI'm trying to help you you need me more than I need youhave you figured they might pick the kid up in France and extradite him?
Have you ever figured they might extradite you?
I'm not so clumsy with fingerprints
I know he is. You change those clothes and then come to my cabin. I'll expect you around twelve o'clock.
Not a chanceI'm through.
You're wasting your timeshe's a friend of mine.
Eh?... Oh.
He works the boats as a "comeon" man. We ought to make a fair combination and do a little business. Jack's a pretty good dealer himself.
There's a lot of trout in this stream just waitin' for a fly. I've already been workin' on a young fellow from Chicagorelated to one of the big packin' familieson his way to Biarritz for a good time. Likes a little game of bridge and poker.
That's him! That's the sucker!!
Looks lonesomeBring him over here.
Can you read 'em Jack?
They're a cinch to readQueen of Clubs Ace of Diamonds.
The man that marks them is an artisttwo hundred and fifty bucks for six decksand they're worth it.
The country boy's about due.
Better unlock the door. Sit up, darling, and be dignified.
Out my way in Montana we always call a bluff.
Well, I helped my hand so I'll have to see you.
How much did you lose?
About twelve hundred.
I went for four.
It's a long trip and we'll get that sucker later.
Then, after the first number, I tell the one about the Scotchman trying to open a Pullman windowthe Scotchman says to the window"Gee you're tight." and the window says"You loosen up a bit and so will I."Good?And then I do the one Ohyou don't like it, eh?
ChadLother's on the boat, and I'm worried sick about Sally
Oh!So that's it. Does she know he's on board?
Nobut I'm going to keep my eye on
What happened to you?
You've got a gun, haven't you, Chad? Will you let me have it?
What for?
Don't ask any questionsjust give it to me.
Easy kideasy.... Come onI want to talk to you.
Yepeverybody's having a good time but meWhat do you want, Mary?
I just wrote a poem about the Atlantic Ocean
But, Maryeverybody's having such a great time why spoil it?
Somebody's got to do it
Well, let's hear the poem
Oh, you dear Atlantic Oceanhow you spread across the seaFrom New York to dear old Europejust for boats to ride on thee
Very good, Mary
But I'm not finished yetAnd your waves are so colossalrocking boats both to and froOhh, Atlantic, how I love you how I love you
What's the matter, Mary?
I'm getting seasick
H'mm<U>Dear</U> Atlantic
Mr. DenbyWhat do you think I ought to do with that part?
Put the whole thing in an envelope and mail it through a porthole
Oh, Mr. Dennby!
Everyone but mewhat do you want now, Mary?
I feel better nowI've got a riddle! When is a plate of bean soup not a plate of bean soup?
All right. When <U>is</U> a plate of bean soup not a plate of noodle soup?
When it falls off the table and turns turtleCute?
Maryfall off the boat and turn to the left
With your dry wit and humor
Oh yeah?My personality put this thing over
Maurice Chevalier! There's a fellow with personality.
What's he got that I haven't got?
Well, he has a straw hat
So have II can get it right out of my trunk.
And he has sex appeal.
So what?
Get that out of your trunk.
All rightdon't spoil the trip with any of those jokes there's a nice bunch of people on this tripnothing but classI looked over the passenger list and they're all members of the Who's Who!
Never mind the Who's WhoBefore I get on this boat I want to know What's What! How about my raise? All I get out of these ocean trips is dizzy.
Don't blame it on the ocean!All right, you'll get the raise!
Is that one of the Who's Who?
NoHe's probably one of the "Here's How." Take it easythe ocean's pretty rough today
H'mm ... no wonder I have trouble rounding up this showDon't you know there's a rehearsal going on? And you wanted a raise.Come onget going or you'll get it!
Oh, all right See you later, Toots.
Oh, Chadwhat about the rest of the show?
Oh,I was having so much fun I almost forgot
Oh, Mr. Denby, I wrote a poem about a bracelet
Goodnight, folks.
I'll give you another chance to tell the truth, Lother.
What do you mean?
Why don't you be a good little boy and leave her alone?
OhI understand you were an important part of her education when she came to New York.
I just tried to show her the difference between the squirrels and the skunks.
Meaning what?
You don't shoot squirrels.
Well, that's somethingeven if only the fish can see it.
Are you happy?
Will beas soon as the ship sails.
Am I a member of this club?
You're the President. Come in! Your brother was just telling me a few jokes I can use on the radio
Are you paying any attention to his jokes?the first thing you know, you'll be taking piano lessons from Venus de Milo Get out of here.
Everything O.K.?
Just what the doctor ordered.
Looks like your old workshop back on 42nd Street.
Like it?
SwellYou've got Times Square right hereall but the noises
Yepspending lots of time aboardyou see, Sally, I sold this Transatlantic idea to the shipping company.
And you've put it overhaven't you?
Why not? I give 'em a great showand you know We're doing capacity, Sallyand all <U>Nice</U> people
You never fail at anything, do you, Chad?
Nonot muchexcepting
Still got my picture, I seeI was pretty dumb then, wasn't I, Chad?
NoInexperienced A redheaded kidhomemade clothesBroadway was Paradiseand a slot at the Automat was a Banquet.
I came to tell you what a swell guy I think you are to do this
Do what
You made it possible for us to get away at a few hours' noticeyou never asked why, but I guess you know.
News travels fast on Broadwayyou had to get away from a rat
It wasn't only thatNed was in a jam.
I get itLee Lother have a hand in that, too?
I was so crazy about himanything he did or said was O.K. by me. I introduced him to peopleeven after I knew his stock promoting was phoney and the card games were crooked. It didn't seem to matterI didn't care until he roped Ned in. Some confidence gameand the kid left his fingerprints on a drinking glass.
I felt pretty low, Sally, when I heard you were running around with a racketeer
Women have a curious taste for knickknacks. When I found out about Nedtried to make a breakLee wouldn't stand for it andwellhere I am!
Stay on the other side of the pond for a couple of monthsyou'll soon forget all about it.
Chad Denby broadcasting the nicest man I ever knew
But not nice enough to marryeh?
Come on, nowyou've forgotten all about that.
I'll never love anybody else.
Women are such fools!Why do so many of us pass up <U>right</U> guys?
Guess they're dullnothing for you to reform.
You're just a Master of Ceremonies. He might have knocked his head off.
What's the difference? He's got more heads than he needs.
I don't get the humor of that remark.
<U>He</U> does. Here's your quarter, Brett.
Yes.
Very serious?
Very
Whydon't you like him?
Of coursebut There's your cuehurry up
McKinney's the name.
Miss Marsh.
Here we are, folkseighty thousand wildeyed fans go madthey go mad as Chad Denbywith the arms of iron, and the nerves of steelpicks up his racket What is this thinga racket or a mallet?
Looks to me like standard equipment for the Department of Street Cleaning
Too bad we're not making a trip around the world maybe we could finish this game. Hey! When you get through with that conference, shoot that last disk!
You can always tell how much a man's traveled by the way he plays shuffleboard.
Yeahif he'd only stick to shuffleboard.
Those kids seem to be getting along fine!
It must be the sea airit gets everybody.
He's a likable chaphe's got an honest face
It's all rightif you like honest faceslet's have another drinkSteward!
Oh noI don't want to impose on you It's funny about that billfoldI could have sworn I had it
Hello, InspectorI hear your vacation's been spoiled. Somebody lost a bracelet.
Yes, a bracelet's been lost, but I'm still on my vacation.
I understand you searched Brett for it last night. By the waywhat do you know about him?
Well, I've seen him here and there. What's on your mind?
Oh, nothingonly I wondered why you suspected him.
Well, I'll tell youwe picked him up about a year ago but could never pin anything on him.
Maybe he just travels in bad company.
Yeah
I didn't
He asked for a loan of it, didn't he?
Yesbut I didn't give it to him
Is this your gun?
Yes!
He's funnymaybe you can use him in the show, Mr. Denby.
<U>Denby!</U>Are you Chad Denby?
Oh, there you are
That's rightyou're the one I was looking for. You'll excuse me. How about you and I being alone?
Not now, TootsWhich is the right way to say this? You're dumber than meoryou're dumber than I?
Let me see nowDon't tell me You're dumber than me and I'm dumber than you. I don't get it.
Never mind.
I'll sayhow fast is this boat going?
Oh,we're doing about thirty
Pretty goodthirty <U>miles</U> an hour
No. <U>Knots</U>!
What?
Knots!
I can see you're no gentleman
That's me!
Not the <U>real</U> Chad Denby?
YesMein person!
So what?
I can see where I won't talk much to you.
<U>Nuts</U> to you too!
Hello, Denby!
I thought I put you to bed.
Oh, was that me you put to bed? Thanks. I've been looking all over for you.
Well, did you find me?
Not yet. Say, where is this boat headed for?
This is a fine time to be asking that. You're on your way to France.
That's news to me. I'd better cable my wife.
Hey, boygive this man a cablegram blank. Where is your wife?
She's in New York.
Tell her you're on your way to France and will be back in four weeks.
That's fine.
Come on, get up. That horse is carrying too much of a load.
Who won?
Well, you got the first downthere's one more to go. Come on, we're ready to start right now. Come on. Just keep stiff.
I was never stiffer in my life.
All right, folks, get on your mark. When you hear the pistol shot
Here you are, sir.
What'll I say?
Eighty cents a wordthreesixnine words. That'll be seven twenty, but it's too muchI'll show you how to save some money.
How?
Where do you live?
In New York.
Your wife knows that, don't she?
Sure.
Then you don't have to tell hercut out New York.
"Will be back in four weeks" that saves you eighty cents right there!
That's righthere's the eighty cents for you. I'd rather see you get it than the companysend it right off.
Wait a minuteI think I can cut out a couple o' more words.
How?
"Willbebackinfourweeks." You don't need the "will be." Just say "Back in four weeks."
That's right. I owe you a dollar sixty.
Wait a minuteI think I can cut something else out. "Back in four weeks." Instead of "in four weeks"say "next month"That saves another word.
Right. Here's eighty cents. Send it.
Just a minuteI don't think we need the word "Back" Where <U>is</U> "Back"?
Back is in New York.
Your wife knows that, don't she?
Sure.
Cut it out.
Now we get it down to two words"next month."
Send that.
Wait a minuteWhat <U>is</U> next month?
Next month is June.
Fine! Instead of saying "next month"we'll use one word and say "June."
June? That's my wife's name.
That's great! There's the address and message all in one word.
O.K.! Send that!
Just a minuteYour wife knows her own name, doesn't she?
Sure.
Well, there's no use in sending it. See thatI saved you seven twenty!
Well. I'd rather see <U>you</U> get it than the company.
Their faces are familiarbut not to each other.
Now that that's settled, why not make the game a foursome?
NoI'll take Sally and give you the best of it.
Tell you what I'll do. I'll toss you for herheads she plays with me.
O.K. Heads you win.
That's too bad.
I'm O.K. It didn't hurt much.
I'm sorry to hear that.
That's all right. I'll attend to this.
Wait a minutelet's match for it.
Never mindI'll pay for it now. It'll save time.
Oh, Denbyhave you seen Sally around?
NoI'm looking for Miss Marsh myself. I thought you might know where she is
She was to meet me herewhy don't you wait? She ought to be here any minute.
I wouldbut our rehearsal starts right away. Before I go I want to ask you a little favor. Sally is an important part of my show. Some daynot nowwhen you get a chancelet her come to just one rehearsal. I'll appreciate it.
I don't know what it is, but I won't use it. Is she entertaining you?
I should say not.
Good! At last you're making yourself useful. So long!
I won'tI'll ask for one right now. Sally tells me she's in love with you.
She did?
Yesbut don't ask me whybecause I could never tell you. I don't know what most guys want out of lifebut <U>that</U> would be enough for meI wouldn't care about easy moneyorshowing off my smart brainsI'd just like to live <U>my</U> life so nothing I did would bounce back and ruin <U>hers</U>Do I make myself clear?
Very clear. That's one favor I'll be glad to do you.
O.K., kid I'm only sorry for one thing.
What's that?
If you hadn't agreedI was going to throw you overboard
I think I've met you before, Mr. Brett.
Oh, yes. On the pier.
Before that. Your face is very familiar.
Yours, too. Are you the McKinney, the dentist on Calumet Avenue in Chicago?
Nonot quite.
I'm going to the show
I'll go with you
Care to join us?
No, thanksI never gambled in my life.
This is excitingbut if it's been stolen they can't get away with it on a ship
Some of the smartest robberies have taken place aboard ships
It'll be very interesting to see how you go about solving this, Inspector
Sorrybut I'm on a vacation
If he lets you down I'll try my hand at sleuthing Bet I could find that bracelet
I wouldn't be surprised
I wouldn't worry about itit'll turn up How about a nightcap, Inspector?
No, thanksI'll take a walk around the deck and then turn in
Good night!
Thought you were going to turn in, Inspector.
Nervous. Couldn't sleep. Feel like a nightcap?
How about you?
No, thanks. I've promised to play cards.
You know what I'd do, if I were youbefore the card game I'd go to the Purser's office.
Why?
Well, someone else besides myself may have seen you in the vicinity of Mrs. Rosson's cabin this eveningeven the stewards in that corridor insisted on being searched. Get me?
Sure, I'll go.
I'll go with you.
Swell!
It's easy to see the Purser hasn't had much practice.
How about trying your fine Italian hand?
This has nothing to do with me But always remember, Purser, when you're searching anybody, take the lining of their coat, like this run your fingers all along these seams.... Then back of the collar<U>here</U>that used to be a favorite trickand never forget to put your finger down inside of the shoelike this.
Hey!you're tickling me.
Then we run our hands down a man's arms and legs like thisin case they got what you're looking for attached to a string. See what I mean, Purser?
Hello, young fellow!
Coming to the pool for a swim?
Nooooo!going to catch up on my reading. I'll take this one.
Wouldn't bet against her. Tell you what I will dobet you I find that bracelet before we hit France. Not a hundred, thoughjust fifty.
It's a betcome on, Sally!
Nice girl, that I'd hate to see <U>her</U> get a raw deal. You know, the great trouble with crooks is they're <U>too</U> smart. Now if I'd taken that bracelet, I'd find some way to slip it backI'd know I could never get ashore with it.
Anybody that's taken the trouble to get it would be a mug to put it back.
Thought you might need medon't talk, kid, and don't let him scare you
Don't be too smart, Jimmyyou're out in the rough yourself. You had an argument with Lother a couple of hours before he was killedbut I'll deal with that later
Don't get yourself all worked up
You keep out of this You admit you thought of killing himhow were you going to do it?
Mmmmmmmmmhm.... Now, Jimmy, what were you doing in that corridor before the shots were fired?
Why, I
Here's your fifty.
Thanks. That makes us square.
Come in!
Hope I didn't keep you waiting.
I'll bet a couple of hundred I wonder what's keeping that boy.
Don't worry about that. We'll settle after the hand. Out in Montana where I come from a man's word is all that's necessary. What have you got?
Three Jacks.
That beats two Pairs. I'm glad <U>I</U> didn't win the first pot. Take the money, Mr. Brett.
It's your deal.
It's a pleasure.
How's your mother feeling?
Much betterthank you
Well, to tell you the truth, gentlemen, I've sworn off playing poker.
Why, you wouldn't quit when you're ahead, would you?
Why isn't that a good time to quit?
I thought you were a sucker
Think again
That goes two ways.
Make it three, boysI'll play this hand pat.
Not herefollow me around the shed.
Don't you know better than to talk to me with people around?
Oh, putting on the swell, eh?
I thought you were a smart guy.
If I was smart I wouldn't be working my way over on this ship.
We didn't have enough dough for two tickets, did we?
We coulda got two thirdclass!
No bank roll there, boy. Lucky I could get you signed onthey picked up that Pittsburgh jewelermade him talk. The heat's on, Shortieand those Atlantic breezes are going to be mighty welcome.
Oh, I'm not squawkin', but I'm not used to working and it's a bad habit to get into.
It'll never hurt youGot any money?
A dollar seventy and I'm gonna keep it!
No, you're not. Give me that dollar seventy.
I'll give you half of it. Here's seventy cents.
Nix, the law!
Yes, sir!I will, sirCertainly, sir!
He's a colored man in chauffeur's uniform carrying a basket of fruit.
I'll watch for him, sir.
Quick, let me have that money. I'm broke and I'll need it for tips.
Oh, noYou're not gonna give my hardearned money away.
You're a wise guyGimme back
Shortie, look!
You don't think?
Looks like he's taking a tripsee the baggage? The only time they ever picked me up, McKinney walked through the room while they were grillinglet's see how good his memory is.
Yer lucky I'm here at all. I tell you, Jimmymy feet'll never hold out.
Stop squawking! You were doing this job on a ship four years ago when I first picked you up, weren't you?
Yeahbut high livin's made me soft.
How're the tips?
A dollar forty.
I'll need itgave my last buck to the bedroom steward.
Not a chance.
Come on I'll promote a card game, and we'll be sitting pretty.
Until thenthe dollar forty stays with me.
Is that a nice way to talk to a pal?
Don't let money spoil a beautiful friendship. Look at these here telegrams to be delivered! This ain't a job it's a marathon.
Oh, Shortie! there's a girl on this ship
there's thousands of 'em!
A thousand? She's one in a millionright off the top of the rosebush!
This is a business trip!
She was wearing a white dress with a cute, black hat and carrying a bag with S. M. on it. Funnyher name's not on the passenger list.
Maybe she's in the showOne of the troupersdid you ever think of that?
Why <U>didn't</U> I think of that?I am going to scout around and see if I can find her.
Just a minute, stewardhaven't you forgotten something?
No, sir?
My change.
Change?
A dollar fortyout of the two dollars I gave you.
Shortie!you know my motto?
Pleasure first if it don't interfere with business.
Right!but it doesn't have to apply to youKeep your eyes open for anybody wearing a lot of cracked ice and give me the office.
Now you're talkin'!
Inspector McKinney.
Are you screwy?
I fell in his armsCouldn't resist it.
You know where that sense of humor's goin' to get you one of these days
Heredrop it where they'll find it and return it to him. He's not a bad egg. I'll ship him back the fifty before we arrive.
You take some awful chances.
Well, I had to get some dough to play with those suckers. Here, get this changed.
They won't squawkthey're professionals.
Well, if that's the case, you're sure of winning the first couple of handsBut what about after that?
That's where you come in. Now, listen, Shortie
Have the purser give you twentyfive hundred dollars for this checkand bring the cash here.
Yes, Mr. Brettright away.
Here's your twentyfive hundred, Mr. Brett.
Thank you. I owe you a dollar fortyherekeep the change.
Thank you, sir.
I'll take one.
Sorry to interrupt you, Mr Brett, but I have a message for you.
What is it?
Your mother is feeling seasick and would like to see you right away.
Oh, is she? What a shame! You'll pardon me?
About sixteen hundred.
Partners, ain't we?
Sureand to show you I'm a regular fella Here's that twentyfive hundred.
You keep it
<U>Me</U>!
Sure! McKinney will never suspect you
Saywait a minute!
See you later, ShortieI'm off to the pool.
Hello, Jimmy. What's up?
Listen, RuntQuick! Where's the ice?
WhyIer thought with all this heat turned on I'd hide it.
Where did you hide it?
On the drunk.
Get it!
I'm so sorry!
Want to take it back?
I thought you were one of my friends.
I'd <U>like</U> to be. Sailing on the <U>Progress?</U>
Yesare you?
I wouldn't miss this boat for a million.
She looks like a lot of other boats. I grant you she's beautiful.
I'll say she is!
Nice lines
Yes
Like her paint job?
Very much
You've got lipstick all over you.
I could stand some more
You'll have all the boys tipping their hats to you let me wipe it off.
No! Don't touch it! I want the <U>world</U> to see my <U>shame</U>.
Where have you been hiding?
Ohhello! I got the flowers. That was sweet of youthank you.
Don't thank me. Do you recognize me without the lipstick?
So you washed it off!
How about giving me another coat?
Goodby.
Wait a minute!They're dancing in the palm court
Goodby!
There's soft music
sorrygot an appointment to play shuffleboard.
Have we?Well, I'd just as soon play shuffleboard.
This is great. I'll be able to watch your act every night.
You're not very ambitious, are you?
Oh, yes, I am, because <U>afterwards</U>up here in the moonlight.
You work too fast for me, young man.
Awgive a feller a break. My cards are on the table I want to know you. How about dining with me tonight?
Never eat before the show.
Wellbreakfast? Lunch?
This is Mr.er
Brett is the name.
Mr Denby and Mr. McKinney.
Don't stop, nurseI think I'm going to faint.
You <U>are</U> a lunatic!
Even Cupid's becoming modern, using medicine balls instead of darts.
You know, you're not a <U>bad</U>looking girl. In factI think you're lovely.
Keep your eyes on the ball, Mister.
Married?
Nothing to speak of. What is thisthird degree?
I want you to get used to my voiceyou're going to hear it a lot.
What a horrible death! Do you know what you remind me of?
Tell me.
A little boy that has escaped from his nurse and
you want to adopt him!Good for you!
Isn't she attractive?
Veryyour mother?
Don't be a cat.
You asked me to dine with you tonight.
Yes?
Well, I can't.
Don't rub it in.
But I'll have cocktails with you.
When?
At seventhirty?
Sooner it you like.
Okay.
Fatal fascination of James Brett wins out.
Wrong again But I dislike possessive women.
See you at seventhirty in the lounge.
I'll be thereGoodby.
I'm sorry I'm late, but something happened.
You're forgiven if you don't make dates with anybody except me for the rest of the voyage.
I must say you're persistent it's kind of flattering.
A little.
Sorry.
Thanks.
Anything I can do? I'd jump overboard if it'd help you.
Mighty decent of you, pal.
Decent? I guess any guy could be decentif you were interested.
What are you thinking?
A lot of things I'd like to forget.
That's funnyso was I. Guess the ocean makes one sentimental
I can't blame the oceanit's you.
You don't know anything about me. If you did, you probably wouldn't be here.
Don't kid me. I'm in no mood for it.
For once I'm dead on the level crazy about you!
Will you take some advice? If you're looking for romancecount me out if you know what's good for you.
But
I know what I'm talking about. I'm no highschool girl looking through a windowreaching for the moon. Guess I'll be going.
Sally!
Let's forget itcan't you see I kind of like you, too ... and I don't want to get involved.
You mean that?
Don't let's talk about it.
You said it! How about a little action?
Would you like to take a turn around the deck with me?
Yesis it all right if I come like this?
This time I'm really glad you showed up.
Lonesome?
We'll let it go at that
What, again?
Yesyou know what I've been thinking, Sally?
What?
I think we'll live in Europe after we're married?
I didn't <U>know</U> we were <U>going</U> to be married.
You didn't?I guess I forgot to tell you
You're a little ahead of yourselfthe usual routine would be for you to propose, and if I accept, then you'd give me an engagement ring
I'll give you plenty of rings as soon as I get the stones setwhat do you think?
I think we ought to walk.
Good night, Mrs. Brett!
Good night, idiot!
I could see you were pining away
Oh, that's Mrs. Rossonremember, you met her yesterday?
YesI remember
How well do you know her?
Just met her on the boatsupposed to play bridge with her yesterdaybut she wouldn'tso we played poker instead.
Who with?
A Mr. Summers and a man called Lother.
Oh, you infant! How much did you lose?
Lose?I won a little
That was the comeonpromise me you won't play with them again
What do you know about them?
Too muchRememberI warned you about me I used to be Lee Lother's girl
You can live that down, can't you?
He's a con mancrooked as a treeand I was part of the rackethelped him! Nowif you have an appointment elsewhereI'll excuse you!
You can't lose me, SallyI'm no lily myself!
I'm beginning to think you're a pretty swell guy.
Come onlet's take a swim.
I'll change and be with you in ten minutes.
Make it five.
Sevenfifty. Positively my last offer.
I'll be waiting on deck.
I'm going to return the bracelet right now and face the consequences.
Jimmy!
Well, I'll be!!!
What's the matter?
Hmm! So am I. If you'll excuse me I have some important unfinished business. I'll see you all later.
We'll be expecting you.
We haven't any chips, Mr. BrettDo you mind playing with cash?
Not at all.
Well, I'm off to a pretty good start.
If I ever won a pot that large the boat would sink.
I should pass, but I'll trail alongI'll take three.
I'll bet a couple of hundred.
Aces full.
And me coming in with two pair
You're coming back
That depends on how mother's feeling. You'll excuse me, gentlemen?
How about a little game later?
FineI'll be glad to.
Could I see you a minute?
Sure! Excuse me.
No gentleman would do that.
I agree with youno gentleman, wouldBut I would especially when my opponents have taken the precaution of marking the cards.
In that caseyou owe us exactly sixteen hundred dollars.
Oh, noI played with <U>your</U> cardsin <U>your</U> cabinat <U>your</U> suggestionIf you've got a kick coming, make it to the Purser.
I'm making it to you. If I don't get it by tonightyou'll find it a <U>rough</U> voyage.
And I'll lay odds you got that bracelet.
I'll lay odds you get a pair of 'emWhy, a highschool kid could take you sapsand another thingLay off Sally Marsh. "Honest Jack"! One look at your mug and the whole world buttons up its pockets.
Where'd you get it?
Lifted it out of a guy's cabin last night.
What did you want a gun for?
Stickup. Needed dough to get ashore.
Is that why you killed Lee Lother?
Guess again, copper.
Get moving
A rare pleasure to meet you, ma'am! Where I come from out in Montanawe have some pretty women, but I guess if you walked down Main Street they'd turn out the fire brigade.
Montana?
Lumber, ma'amspent all my life out there piling up a bank balance and now gosh darn it"Honest Jack"that's what they call meis goin' to see the world.
that's what we call doublea grade lumber, ma'am; You don't find a knot in a thousand feet.
Isn't that interesting?
You'll excuse me.
Well, it'll have to be pokerbut I'm so unlucky in that game.
Will you pardon me?
<U>Gladly</U>.
You're luckyout my way, in Montana, there's nothing else to do
I'm going down to my cabin. I have to send a wireless see you later.
Did you find it?
No!Did <U>you</U> take that bracelet?
Noo!
Where's Lother?
How do you do. Would you care to finish the game? I have a slight earache. and it's so noisy up here.
Thanks, no. I despise any form of exercise. Don't forget we have an engagement for cocktails and cards.
You're Anya Rosson, aren't you? I've heard of you back in New York.
Sorry I can't return the compliment.
You were indiscreet enough to leave your gloves in my apartment one evening and he was gentleman enough to boast <U>why</U> you'd been there and show me a snapshot of you.
I don't understand.
I think you do.
I can think of nothing nicer. It's very kind of you to invite me
I'm just commencing to enjoy this trip.
Feeling a little better, I see.
Yes, yesthe air I'm getting plenty of air. Miss MarshMrs. Rosson.
Thanks. I'll be there. About seventhirty?
Soonerif you like. See you again, I hope.
Good afternoon
Glad to see you again.
I hope so.
That's a date.
Will you please excuse me? I'll be right back.
We'll save you a place at our table.
Thanks.
Isn't she lovely?
Yesand <U>very</U> popular
NoI'm furious!Nobody seems to do anything about it
Why worry? It was insuredhow about that swimming lesson I promised you?
Anya!
Don't you hate people that surprise you? ... I do. We can't stand here.
Anya, I think you're crazy.
Any woman's crazy to feel about a man the way I do about you.
I wasn't running out on you. When I got over there made my plansI'd have sent for you.
Then why the sudden exit without even telling me?
Do you want the truth, Anya?
It would be a nice change from you.
I had an idea your husband was getting suspicious.
You're a charming liar. You <U>know</U>, Herbert's too dull to be suspicious about anythingeven when I suddenly decided to come to Europe at a few hours' notice
How'd you ever get away with it?
When I found out you were going I just had an attack of nervesa few tearsand Herbert was on his way downtown to get my passport ... so who cares ... I'm here with you ... and that's all that matters to me.
Sure!
I never want to go back....
Here's to Europe! Couldn't try to look a little less glum, could you?
Don't be crazyI'm tickled to death to see you.
That's finebecause you're going to see a lot of me ... for the rest of your life.
But, Anya, dear! Unless you play we won't have a fourth.
I'm sorry, but you three men can play poker or something. Shall I see you tomorrow?
Hope we're not intruding.
This is Miss Marsh.
YesI met Miss Marsh. In fact, she always seems to be turning up in the most unusual circumstances. What's the matter, Miss Marsharen't you feeling well?
Wellshall we go into dinner?
I'll join you later.
And <U>do</U> bring Miss Marsh when she's had time to tidy up a bit.
So that's your little dancer that you were playing around with in New York. Ohthere's no accounting for tastes Mine, too, seem to be in the gutter.
I can explain
Sure! You're never at a loss for words.
Don't look so uncomfortable, Leeit interferes with your good looks. Give me a cigarette. What did you dopersuade her to come on this voyage with you?
Don't talk such bunk! She's one of the acts on the ship. I just ran into her by accident.
Did you muss up her hair by accident, too?
You mind your own business! She's an old friend of mine and I like herwhat're you going to do about it?
Just make it as difficult as possible for you to see her.
I didn't ask you to come away with me
Oha hundred times
and I can tell you where to get off.
And when you do I'll convey your respects by wireless to Herbert. Take it easy, Leeno other woman'll ever get you. At least I'm honest when I tell you there must be something pretty low down in mebecause I like you. You're such a swine!
Will you leave me alone?
I like touching youpoison ivy. You'd just been kissing that girl when I came in, hadn't you?
Baloney!
No, darling, lip rougeall over your mouth.
My God, Rose, what's gotten into 
Excuse me.
Mother, may I introduce Jack Dawson.
Charmed, I'm sure.
Rose, this is not a game! Our situation is precarious. You know the money's gone!
Of course I know it's gone. You remind me every day!
Your father left us nothing but a legacy of bad debts hidden by a good name. And that name is the only card we have to play.
I don't understand you. It is a fine match with Hockley, and it will insure our survival.
How can you put this on my shoulders?
Do you want to se me working as a seamstress? Is that what you want? Do you want to see our fine things sold at an auction, our memories scattered to the winds? My God, Rose, how can you be so selfish?
It's so unfair.
Of course it's unfair! We're women. Our choices are never easy.
Rose, get in the boat!
Goodbye, mother.
Is your stateroom alright?
Yes. Very nice. Have you met my granddaughter, Lizzy? She takes care of me.
There, that's nice. I have to have my pictures when I travel. And Freddy of course. Isn't that right, sweetie.
Would you like anything?
I should like to see my drawing.
Louis the Sixteenth wore a fabulous stone, called the Blue Diamond of the Crown, which disappeared in 1792, about the time Louis lost everything from the neck up. The theory goes that the crown diamond was chopped too... recut into a heartlike shape... and it became Le Coeur de la Mer. The Heart of the Ocean. Today it would be worth more than the Hope Diamond.
It was a dreadful, heavy thing. I only wore it this once.
I tracked it down through insurance records... and old claim that was settled under terms of absolute secrecy. Do you know who the claiment was, Rose?
Someone named Hockley, I should imagine.
Nathan Hockley, right. Pittsburgh steel tycoon. For a diamond necklace his son Caledon Hockley bought in France for his fiancee... you... a week before he sailed on Titanic. And the claim was filed right after the sinking. So the diamond had to've gone down with the ship. See the date?
It's been 84 years...
Just tell us what you can 
It's been 84 years... and I can still smell the fresh paint. The china had never been used. The sheets had never been slept in.
I can still feel its weight. If you could have felt it, not just seen it...
Well, that's the general idea, my dear.
Rose, tell us more about the diamond. What did Hockley do with it after that?
I'm afraid I'm feeling a little tired, Mr. Lovett.
Don't come any closer.
You had it the entire time?!
April 14, 1912.
If your grandma is who she says she is, she was wearing the diamond the day Titanic sank. And that makes you my new best friend. I will happily compensate you for anything you can tell us that will lead to its recovery.
Wait! Can you give us something go on, here. Like who had access to the safe. What about this Lovejoy guy? The valet. Did he have the combination?
That's enough.
Maybe she wants to make peace with the past.
What past? She has never once, not once, ever said a word about being on the Titanic until two days ago.
Then we're all meeting your grandmother for the first time.
You think she was really there?
Oh, yeah. Yeah, I'm a believer. She was there.
I'm sorry.
We were pissin' in the wind the whole time.
I don't think I've ever seen such a flat calm, in 24 years at sea.
Yes, like a mill pond. Not a breath of wind.
It's make the bergs harder to see, with no breaking water at the base.
Mmmmm. Well, I'm off. Maintain speed and heading, Mr. Lightoller.
Yes sir.
And wake me, of course, if anything becomes in the slightest degree doubtful.
Take my hand. I'll pull you back in.
No! Stay where you are. I mean it. I'll let go.
No you won't.
What do you mean no I won't? Don't presume to tell me what I will and will not do. You don't know me.
You would have done it already. Now come on, take my hand.
You're distracting me. Go away.
I can't. I'm involved now. If you let go I have to jump in after you.
Don't be absurd. You'll be killed.
The fall alone would kill you.
It would hurt. I'm not saying it wouldn't. To be honest I'm a lot more concerned about the water being so cold.
How cold?
Freezing. Maybe a couple degrees over.
Ever been to Wisconsin?
No.
Well they have some of the coldest winters around, and I grew up there, near Chippewa Falls. Once when I was a kid me and my father were ice fishing out on Lake Wissota... ice fishing's where you chop a hole in the 
I know what ice fishing is!
Sorry. Just... you look like kind of an indoor girl. Anyway, I went through some thin ice and I'm tellin' ya, water that cold... like that right down there... it hits you like a thousand knives all over your body. You can't breath, you can't think... least not about anything but the pain. Which is why I'm not looking forward to jumping in after you. But like I said, I don't see a choice. I guess I'm kinda hoping you'll come back over the rail and get me off the hook here.
You're crazy.
That's what everybody says. But with all due respect, I'm not the one hanging off the back of a ship.
I'm Jack Dawson.
Pleased to meet you, Mr. Dawson.
HELP! HELP!!
I've got you. I won't let go.
Hello again.
Could I speak to you in private?
Uh, yes. Of course. After you.
So, you got a name by the way?
Rose. Rose DeWitt Bukater.
That's quite a moniker. I may hafta get you to write that down.
Mr. Dawson, I 
Jack.
Jack... I feel like such an idiot. It took me all morning to get up the nerve to face you.
Well, here you are.
Here I am. I... I want to thank you for what you did. Not just for... for pulling me back. But for your discretion.
You're welcome. Rose.
Look, I know what you must be thinking! Poor little rich girl. What does she know about misery?
That's not what I was thinking. What I was thinking was... what could have happened to hurt this girl so much she though she had no way out.
I don't... it wasn't just one thing. It was everything. It was them, it was their whole world. And I was trapped in it, like an insect in amber. I just had to get away... just run and run and run... and then I was at the back rail and there was no more ship... even the Titanic wasn't big enough. Not enough to get away from them. And before I'd really though about it, I was over the rail. I was so furious. I'll show them. They'll be sorry!
Uh huh. They'll be sorry. 'Course you'll be dead.
Oh God, I am such an utter fool.
That penguin last night, is he one of them?
Penguin? Oh, Cal! He is them.
Is he your boyfriend?
Worse I'm afraid.
So you feel like you're stuck on a train you can't get off 'cause you're marryin' this fella.
Yes, exactly!
So don't marry him.
If only it were that simple.
It is that simple.
Oh, Jack... please don't judge me until you've seen my world.
Well, I guess I will tonight.
What's this?
Just some sketches.
May I?
Jack, these are quite good! Really, they are.
Well, they didn't think too much of 'em in Paree.
Oh no! Oh, I'm so sorry. Truly!
Well, they didn't think too much of 'em in Paree.
And these were drawn from life?
Yup. That's one of the great things about Paris. Lots of girls willing take their clothes off.
You liked this woman. You used her several times.
She had beautiful hands.
I think you must have had a love affair with her...
No, no! Just with her hands.
You have a gift, Jack. You do. You see people.
I see you.
And...?
You wouldn'ta jumped.
You know, my dream has always been to just chuck it all and become an artist... living in a garret, poor but free!
You wouldn't last two days. There's no hot water, and hardly ever any caviar.
Listen, buster... I hate caviar! And I'm tired of people dismissing my dreams with a chuckle and a pat on the head.
I'm sorry. Really... I am.
Well, alright. There's something in me, Jack. I feel it. I don't know what it is, whether I should be an artist, or, I don't know... a dancer. Like Isadora Duncan.... a wild pagan spirit...
So then what, Mr. Wandering Jack?
Well, then logging got to be too much like work, so I went down to Los Angeles to the pier in Santa Monica. That's a swell place, they even have a rollercoaster. I sketched portraits there for ten cents a piece.
A whole ten cents?!
Yeah; it was great money... I could make a dollar a day, sometimes. But only in summer. When it got cold, I decided to go to Paris and see what the real artists were doing.
Why can't I be like you Jack? Just head out for the horizon whenever I feel like it. Say we'll go there, sometime... to that pier... even if we only ever just talk about it.
Alright, we're going. We'll drink cheap beer and go on the rollercoaster until we throw up and we'll ride horses on the beach... right in the surf... but you have to ride like a cowboy, none of that sidesaddle stuff.
You mean one leg on each side? Scandalous! Can you show me?
Sure. If you like.
I think I would. And teach me to spit too. Like a man. Why should only men be able to spit. It's unfair.
They didn't teach you that in finishing school? Here, it's easy. Watch closely.
I saw that in a nickelodeon once, and I always wanted to do it.
Cal, surely you remember Mr. Dawson.
Jack, must you go?
Time for my coach to turn back into a pumpkin.
May I cut in, miss?
You're still my best girl, Cora.
I don't know the steps.
Just move with me. Don't think.
You're not one of them. There's been a mistake.
A mistake?
Uh huh. You got mailed to the wrong address.
I did, didn't I? Look! A shooting star.
That was a long one. My father used to say that whenever you saw one, it was a soul going to heaven.
I like that. Aren't we supposed to wish on it?
Rose, you're no picnic... you're a spoiled little brat even, but under that you're a strong, pure heart, and you're the most amazingly astounding girl I've ever known and 
Jack, I 
No wait. Let me try to get this out. You're amazing... and I know I have nothing to offer you, Rose. I know that. But I'm involved now. You jump, I jump, remember? I can't turn away without knowin' that you're goin' to be alright.
You're making this very hard. I'll be fine. Really.
I don't think so. They've got you in a glass jar like some butterfly, and you're goin' to die if you don't break out. Maybe not right away, 'cause you're strong. But sooner or later the fire in you is goin' to go out.
It's not up to you to save me, Jack.
You're right. Only you can do that.
I have to get back, they'll miss me. Please, Jack, for both our sakes, leave me alone.
Fabrizio said you might be up 
Sssshh. Come here.
Will this light do? Don't artists need good light?
Zat is true, I am not used to working in such 'orreeble conditions. Hey... Monet!
Cal insist on lugging this thing everywhere.
Should I be expecting him anytime soon?
Not as long as the cigars and brandy hold out.
What is it? A sapphire?
A diamond. A very rare diamond, called the Heart of the Ocean.
I believe you are blushing, Mr. Big Artiste. I can't imagine Monsieur Monet blushing.
He does landscapes.
Pretty tough for a valet, this fella.
He's an exPinkerton. Cal's father hired him to keep Cal out of trouble... to make sure he always got back to the hotel with his wallet and watch, after some crawl through the less reputable parts of town...
Kinda like we're doin' right now  uh oh!
Where to, Miss?
To the stars.
Are you nervous?
Au contraire, mon cher.
You're trembling.
It's okay. I'm alright.
When this ship docks, I'm getting off with you.
This is crazy.
I know. It doesn't make any sense. That's why I trust it.
Looks okay. I don't see anything.
Could it have damaged the ship?
It didn't seem like much of a bump. I'm sure we're okay.
It's bad.
We have to tell Mother and Cal.
Now it's worse.
Come with me, Jack. I jump, you jump... Right?
Right.
This is horseshit.
Cal, you can't be serious! We're in the middle of an emergency and you 
Don't you believe it, Rose. Don't!
He couldn't have.
That guy Lovejoy put it in my pocket.
I know, I know.
See if you can find a key for these. Try those drawers. It's a little brass one.
So... how did you find out I didn't do it?
I didn't. I just realized I already knew.
You have to go for help.
I'll be right back.
I'll wait here.
Will this work?
We'll find out.
I'm not going without you.
Get in the boat, Rose.
You jump, I jump, right?
Right.
Look for something floating. Some debris... wood... anything.
It's so cold.
I know. I know. Help me, here. Look around.
It's getting quiet.
Just a few more minutes. It'll take them a while to get the boats organized...
No... don't say your goodbyes, Rose. Don't you give up. Don't do it.
I'm so cold.
You're going to get out of this... you're going to go on and you're going to make babies and watch them grow and you're going to die an old lady, warm in your bed. Not here. Not this night. Do you understand me?
I can't feel my body.
Rose, listen to me. Listen. Winning that ticket was the best thing that ever happened to me.
You must do me this honor... promise me you will survive... that you will never give up... no matter what happens... no matter how hopeless... promise me now, and never let go of that promise.
I promise.
Never let go.
I promise. I will never let go, Jack. I'll never let go.
So you've not lit the last four boilers then?
No, but we're making excellent time.
Captain, the press knows the size of Titanic, let them marvel at her speed too. We must give them something new to print. And the maiden voyage of Titanic must make headlines!
I prefer not to push the engines until they've been properly run in.
Of course I leave it to your good offices to decide what's best, but what a glorious end to your last crossing if we get into New York Tuesday night and surprise them all. Retire with a bang, eh, E.J.?
Why have we stopped?
We've struck ice.
Well, do you think the ship is seriously damaged?
Excuse me.
Keep pulling... away from the ship. Pull.
Ain't you boys ever rowed before? Here, gimme those oars. I'll show ya how it's done.
The suction will pull us right down if we don't keep going.
We got room for lots more. I say we go back.
No! It's our lives now, not theirs. And I'm in charge of this boat! Now row!!
They'll pull us right down I tell ya!
Aw knock it off, yer scarin' me. Come on girls, grab your oars. Let's go. Well come on!
I don't understand a one of you. What's the matter with you? It's your men back there! We got plenty a' room for more.
If you don't shut that hole in yer face, there'll be one less in this boat!
You can smell ice, you know, when it's near.
Bollocks.
Well I can.
Cor... look at that, would ya.
They're a bloody sight warmer than we are.
Well if that's what it takes for us two to get warm, I'd rather not, if it's all the same.
Oy, mate... that was a close shave.
Smell ice, can you? Bleedin' Christ!
Let's see... Fabrizio's got niente. Olaf, you've got squat. Sven, uh oh... two pair... mmm. Sorry Fabrizio.
What sorry? What you got? You lose my money?? Ma va fa'n culo testa di cazzo 
Sorry, you're not gonna see your mama again for a long time...
'Cause you're goin' to America!! Full house boys!
Porca Madonna!! YEEAAAAA!!!
Goin' home... to the land o' the free and the home of the real hot dogs! On the TITANIC!! We're ridin' in high style now! We're practically goddamned royalty, ragazzo mio!!
You see? Is my destinio!! Like I told you. I go to l'America!! To be a millionaire!! Capito?? I go to America!!
You know somebody?
Of course not. That's not the point. Goodbye! Goodbye!! I'll miss you!
How you two doin'?
I don't know what she's say, she don't know what I say, so we get along fine.
The boats are all going.
We gotta get up there or we're gonna be gargling saltwater. Where's Tommy?
I know. Perhaps you could join us for dinner tomorrow, to regale our group with your heroic tale?
Sure. Count me in.
Good. Settled then.
This should be amusing.
Can I bum a cigarette?
Just a soupcon of lemon... ...it improves the flavor with champagne.
No caviar for me, thanks. Never did like it much.
No thanks. I'm heading back.
Probably best. It'll be all business and politics, that sort of thing. Wouldn't interest you. Good of you to come.
There are boats on the other side that are allowing men in. Jack and I can get off safely. Both of us.
I'll be alright. Hurry up so we can get going... we got our own boat to catch.
Get in... hurry up, it's almost full.
You're a good liar.
Almost as good as you.
I always win, Jack. One way or another. Pity I didn't keep that drawing. It's going to be worth a lot more by morning.
You told me to change.
I couldn't let you wear black on sailing day, sweetpea. It's bad luck.
I felt like black.
Those mud puddles were certainly a waste of money.
You're wrong. They're fascinating. Like in a dream... there's truth without logic. What's his name again...? Picasso.
He'll never amount to a thing, trust me. At least they were cheap.
What made you think you could put your hands on my fiancee?! Look at me, you filth! What did you think you were doing?!
Cal, stop! It was an accident.
An accident?!
It was... stupid really. I was leaning over and I slipped.
I was leaning way over, to see the... ah... propellers. And I slipped and I would have gone overboard... and Mr. Dawson here saved me and he almost went over himself.
You wanted to see the propellers?
Is that the going rate for saving the woman you love?
Rose is displeased. Mmm... what to do?
My God... Cal. Is it a 
Diamond. Yes it is. 56 carats.
It was once worn by Louis the Sixteenth. They call it Le Coeur de la Mer, the 
The Heart of the Ocean. Cal, it's... it's overwhelming.
I had hoped you would come to me last night.
I was tired.
Yes. Your exertions below decks were no doubt exausting.
I see you had that undertaker of a manservant follow me.
You will never behave like that again! Do you understand?
I'm not some foreman in your mills than you can command! I am your fiancee 
Something serious has happened.
That's right. Two things dear to me have disappeared this evening. Now that one is back... ...I have a pretty good idea where to find the other. Search him.
But I was with him the whole time.
Maybe he did it while you were putting your clothes back on.
Oh, Mother shut up! Don't you understand? The water is freezing and there aren't enough boats... not enough by half. Half the people on this ship are going to die.
Not the better half.
Where are you going? To him? Is that it? To be a whore to that gutter rat?
I'd rather be his whore than your wife.
Yes, I lived. How awkward for you.
Rose... your mother and I have been looking for you 
Is this in any way unclear?
What do I tell your mother?
Tell her that her daughter died with the Titanic.
You're precious to me, Rose.
Jewels are precious. Goodbye, Mr. Hockley.
Your daughter is much too hard to impress, Ruth. Mind your step.
So this is the ship they say is unsinkable.
It is unsinkable. God himself couldn't sink this ship.
Steerage swine. Apparently missed his annual bath.
Honestly, Cal, if you weren't forever booking everything at the last instant, we could have gone through the terminal instead of running along the dock like some squalid immigrant family.
All part of my charm, Ruth. At any rate, it was my darling fiancee's beauty rituals which made us late.
You know I don't like that, Rose.
She knows.
It's just the God damned English doing everything by the book.
There's no need for language, Mr. Hockley. Go back and turn the heater on in my room, so it won't be too cold when we get back.
None of the stewards have seen her.
This is ridiculous, Lovejoy. Find her.
She's not on the starboard side either.
We're running out of time. And this strutting martinet... ...isn't letting any men in at all.
The one on the other side is letting men in.
Then that's our play. But we're still going to need some insurance. Come on.
I make my own luck.
So do I.
We're too late.
There are still some boats forward. Stay with this one... Murdoch. He seems to be quite... practical.
What could possible be funny?
I put the diamond in my coat pocket. And I put my coat... on her.
The partners want to know how it's going?
How it's going? It's going like a first date in prison, whattaya think?!
There's a satellite call for you.
Bobby, we're launching. See these submersibles here, going in the water? Take a message.
No, trust me, you want to take this call.
This is Brock Lovett. What can I do for you, Mrs...?
Rose Calvert.
...Mrs. Calvert?
I told you you wanted to take this call.
Alright. You have my attention, Rose. Can you tell me who the woman in the picture is?
Hey, Lizzy. I need to talk to you for a second.
Don't you mean work me?
Look, I'm running out of time. I need your help.
I'm not going to help you browbeat my hundred and one year old grandmother. I came down here to tell you to back off.
Lizzy... you gotta understand something. I've bet it all to find the Heart of the Ocean. I've got all my dough tied up in this thing. My wife even divorced me over this hunt. I need what's locked inside your grandma's memory. You see this? Right here?
What?
That's the shape my hand's gonna be when I hold that thing. You understand? I'm not leaving here without it.
Look, Brock, she's going to do this her way, in her own time. Don't forget, she contacted you. She's out here for her own reasons, God knows what they are.
I'm in the sitting room. Heading for bedroom B54.
Stay off the floor. Don't stir it up like you did yesterday.
I'm tryin' boss.
Who's the best? Say it.
You are, Lewis. You rolling?
Shit.
You know, boss, this happened to Geraldo and his career never recovered.
Get that outta my face.
She says she's Rose DeWitt Bukater, right? Rose DeWitt Bukater died on the Titanic. At the age of 17. If she'd've lived, she'd be over a hundred now.
A hundred and one next month.
Okay, so she's a very old goddamned liar. I traced her as far back as the 20's... she was working as an actress in L.A. An actress. Her name was Rose Dawson. Then she married a guy named Calvert, moved to Cedar Rapids, had two kids. Now Calvert's dead, and from what I've heard Cedar Rapids is dead.
We've put together the world's largest database on the Titanic. Okay, here...
Rose might not want to see this, Lewis.
So let me get this right. You were gonna kill yourself by jumping off the Titanic? That's great!
Lewis...
Holy shit.
Don't drop it Rose.
Rush her.
It's hers, you schmuck. Look, Rose, I... I don't know what to say to a woman who tries to jump off the Titanic when it's not sinking, and jumps back onto it when it is... we're not dealing with logic here, I know that... but please... think about this a second.
Your ship is a wonder, Mr. Andrews. Truly.
Thank you, Rose.
Mr. Andrews, I did the sum in my head, and with the number of lifeboats times the capacity you mentioned... forgive me, but it seems that there are not enough for everyone aboard.
About half, actually. Rose, you miss nothing, do you? In fact, I put in these new type davits, which can take an extra row of boats here. But it was thought... by some... that the deck would look too cluttered. So I was overruled.
I saw the iceberg, Mr. Andrews. And I see it in your eyes. Please tell me the truth.
The ship will sink.
You're certain?
Yes. In an hour or so... all this... will be at the bottom of the Atlantic.
Please tell only who you must, I don't want to be responsible for a panic. And get to a boat quickly. Don't wait. You remember what I told you about the boats?
Yes, I understand. Thank you.
Mr. Andrews, thank God! Where would the Master at Arms take someone under arrest?!
What? You have to get to a boat right away!
No! I'll do this with or without your help, sir. But without will take longer.
Take the elevator to the very bottom, go left, down the crewman's passage, then make a right.
Bottom, left, right. I have it.
Hurry, Rose.
Won't you even make a try for it, Mr. Andrews?
I'm sorry that I didn't build you a stronger ship, young Rose.
Good luck to you, Rose.
And to you, Mr. Andrews.
Water 14 feet above the keel in ten minutes... in the forepeak... in all three holds... and in boiler room six.
That's right.
Five compartments. She can stay afloat with the first four compartments breached. But not five. Not five. As she goes down by the head the water will spill over the tops of the bulkheads... at E Deck... from one to the next... back and back. There's no stopping it.
The pumps 
The pumps buy you time... but minutes only. From this moment, no matter what we do, Titanic will founder.
How much time?
An hour, two at most.
You should be ashamed of yourselves. Two men of your standing, always quarreling.
He started it.
But you're the more intelligent one.
That's true.
Then why did you do it?
Because I hate himbecause I love you!
You should have more selfcontrol. You were in the army.
Well, he was in the navy.
Your bag?
Yes, my bag!
Didn't you take it with you?
Apparently not. Don't you know where it is?
NoI'm sorry.
But you saw it here.
Yes, I saw itbut
Well, where is it?
You've had your breakfastoh, but of course you have.
Yes, madame. You see, I have to get up very early. My little brother goes to school You see, Mother is dead.
Yes, that's the trouble with mothers. First you get to like them and then they die.
Two lumps, madame?
Please! Thank you.
May I?
Yes, madame?
You see Oh, not a word to M'sieu Laval!
About what?
Potatoes. He doesn't want me to eat them and naturally I don't want to upset him.
Naturally not!
Now. Uhmademoisellein the short time you have been M'sieu Laval's secretary, have you noticed any change in him?
Welluhyes and no.
To me he seems rather nervous.
Nervous? Umhum. He smokes too much!
No, he <u>works</u> too much. He's chained to his desk. Too much detail. Now, if you could take over some of his work
So he wouldn't be confined so much to his office
Yes! And he would have a little more time for
For all the really important things
Right!
I'll do my best, madame, even if I have to work every night.
Oh, no, no, no, no, my dear child! That's ridiculous. You go home as usualfive o'clock every day. Now I'm going to be a little bit of a tyrantI insist. It'll be nice for your little brother, too. <u>Five</u> <u>o'clock</u>remember!
Very well, madame. Thank you.
Yes, madame?
How much is your salary?
Well, in times like these most people are cutting salaries, but suppose we say, in your case, three hundred and fifty?
Oh, madame, you're just too sweet for words!
I think you'd better go.
Ever had a romance with a crook?
I beg your pardon!
Let me give you a little advice. When you embrace him, be sure to put on your gloves. It would be too bad if your fingerprints were found ...
Mademoiselle Gautieror whatever your name isI thank you for your advice, but I must ask you to go. You've got your money
I don't want your money!
But my dear M'sieu Giron, I'm having a tea party. Must I be bothered with all these papers now?
I'm sorry, madame, but there are still certain matters which I think you should attend to yourself. And I, personally, would not care to refer them toto
To M'sieu Laval?
Madame Colet, I've enjoyed the confidence of your family for more than forty years. I was a school friend of your husband's ...
I know!
Madame, let me ask you: Who is M'sieu Laval, anyhow? Where does he come from? What is he?
He is my secretary! I hope that answers all your questions, M'sieu Giron.
You know what Paris is saying about the Countess Falconier and her chauffeur?
Jacques!
Oh, M'sieu Laval ...
Yes, Madame Colet?
Has Mademoiselle Gautier gone?
Yesuh
Oh, that's too bad. You see, I wanted her to do something. Well, I guess I'll have to do it myself.
What is it, madame?
I wanted to ask her to ask you if you'd be good enough to go out to dinner with me tonight.
Oh, no, it's the way you lead.
No, madame, it's the way you <u>follow</u>.
No, m'sieu!
Yes, madame!
Well, the evening is still young. Let's go down to the living room and talk it over. It's only ten o'clock.
Yes...?
Will you be good enough to look at this bag, madame?
That's it! Yes, that's it! ... Jacques!
You know the main staircase in the opera?
Yes.
Then you go to the left. There's a landing.
Yes.
Then you go into the foyer.
Yes.
And as you leave the foyer, there is a little niche.
I know that niche.
And in that niche, there is a statue of Venus.
I remember.
You like that statue?
Not particularly.
Neither do I. That's where I found it.
I don't know how I could have lost it there. I was nowhere near that niche.
Oh ... That's strange. Maybeare you sure this is your bag?
Of course it is! Are you doubting me?
Not in the least, madame. But you see, it's a very expensive bagone has to be careful.
WellI am Madame Colet.
And I am M'sieu Lavalif you will allow me to introduce myself.
Wellhow do you do, M'sieu Laval?
The pleasure is mine, madame.
One purse empty. One vanity case
But really, m'sieu, this isn't necessary.
Please, Madame Colet, I believe in doing things correctly. Shall we continue? Two hairpins, one cigarette lighter, one box of real matches, and Oh, yes, this letter from Major
Oh! You didn't read it!
Naturally I did.
Oh!
You needn't be embarrassed, madame. A lady as charming as you would, and <u>should</u>, get love letters.
M'sieu Laval!
But one suggestion, madame. Not the major. I don't mind his grammatical mistakes. I'll overlook his bad punctuation. But the letter has no mysteryno bouquetno ... And one lipstick ... Scarlet number four.
What's wrong now?
With your skin, I prefer crimson.
Too much blue in crimson.
That's what you need!
No, no, no! I disagree with you completely! I tried it once
What shade of powder do you use?
Peaches and cream.
That's too dark.
Do you realize I have light eyes?
But, Madame Colet, that's a matter of eye shadow. I can straighten that out in two seconds.
Goodbye, M'sieu La Oh, yes ... This is a rather delicate matter and I don't want to ... You see, if you read my advertisement carefully, you must have noticed that there was ...
In other words, madame, it embarrasses you to offer me the twenty thousand francs reward.
Yes.
Don't be embarrassed, madame. I'll take it. I need the money. I wish I were in a position to ignore the whole matter. But you know, madame, the stock market, bank crash ... To make a long story shorta member of the nouveaux poor.
Then I'm glad I lost the bag! I'll write you the check immediately.
Do you know my first name?
No. What is it? Tell me.
And do you know what I'd like to have you do with that check?
What?
Make it out to cash!
As you like.
Eighteenth century.
Yes!
Early eighteenth century. I should say aroundseventeen thirty.
Right!
Beautiful specimen.
It <u>is</u> beautiful. But I got a little tired of sleeping in antiques, so I gave it to my secretary.
Oh?
This used to be my secretary's room.
I see. She must have been very happy here.
Too happy. That's why I discharged her.
Isn't that wonderful! You see, madame
But, madame, you keep a hundred thousand francsin your safeat <u>home</u>?
You think that's too much?
No! Not enough! In times like these, when everything is uncertain, every conservative person should have a substantial part of his fortune within arm's reach.
That sounds sensible.
Madame Colet, I think you deserve a scolding. First, you lose your bag
Then I mislay my checkbook
Then you use the wrong lipstick
And how I handle my <u>money</u>!
It's disgraceful!
Tell me, M'sieu Laval, what else is wrong?
Everything! ... Madame Colet, if I were your father which, fortunately, I am not
Yees?
And you made any attempt to handle your own business affairs, I would give you a good spankingin a business way, of course.
What would you do if you were my <u>secretary</u>?
The same thing.
You're hired!
Madame.
Will you be good enough to run through these papers with M'sieu Giron?
I'll be delighted.
And so will M'sieu Giron.
Yes, madame?
What are you going to do with my day tomorrow, M'sieu Laval?
Well, we'll have breakfast in the garden.
Umhum ...
Then riding together.
Umhum ...
Then lunch in the Bois
Together.
Then a little nap
How do you like my dress?
Beautiful.
Hair?
Marvelous.
Lipstick?
Crimson!
Correct! Good night.
Good night.
Good night.
Goodbye.
But you have an engagement, and I don't want people to talk.
Talk? About meabout us?
Precisely.
Afraid I'm ruining your reputation, M'sieu Laval?
Noyours, madame.
M'sieu Laval, I've got a confession to make to you ...
But incidentally, let me tell you, <u>I</u> don't like <u>you</u>. I don't like you at all! I wouldn't hesitate one instant to ruin <u>your</u> reputationlike that!
You would?
Yes, I would!
Like that?
Like that!
I know all your tricks.
And you're going to fall for them.
So you think you can get me?
Any minute I want!
You're conceited
But attractive
<u>Now</u>, <u>let</u> <u>me</u> <u>tell</u> <u>you</u>
<u>Shut</u> <u>up</u><u>kiss</u> <u>me</u>! Wasting all this marvelous time with arguments!
I want you to stay, Mariette. You've <u>got</u> to stay. You can't go now!
I <u>must</u> go.
I'm crazy about you!
I know it.
<u>I</u> <u>love</u> <u>you</u>.
I <u>believe</u> you.
Then why do you want to go?
Because I want to make it tough for you.
When a lady takes her jewels off in a gentleman's room, where does she put them?
On the night table.
But I don't want to be a lady.
Ah, let me have a little fun.
Please!
Thirtythree
Nothirtyfive!
Yes, Gaston?
What would you say if you found your safe had been robbed?
I wouldn't say anythingI would act.
Call the police?
Instantly.
Um<u>hum</u> ...
But why talk about robbery on a night like this?
You look beautiful.
Thank you. Seventysix, eighty
Mariette!
Yes, Gaston?
You have been robbedfor years. And not a hundred thousand francs, but millions. And you know who did it? Adolph.
<u>Adolph</u>?
Adolph J. Giron.
And you expect me to believe that?
Naturally not. But I expect the police to believe it.
Why not? He's a thiefhe's a criminal.
I don't believe it!
Then why are you afraid to let me prove it?
It would be a terrible scandal, wouldn't it?
Giron...!
Yes, Giron! Chairman of the board of Colet and Company. Honorary president of the Orphans' Asylum. Adolph J. Girondistinguished citizen! ... Well, shall I call the police? I see! You have to be in the social register to keep out of jail. But when a man starts at the bottom and works his way upa selfmade crook then you say, "Call the police! Put him behind bars! Lock him up!"
Goodbye...
Goodbye.
It could have been marvelous ...
Divine ...
Wonderful ... But tomorrow morning, if you should wake out of your dreams and hear a knock, and the door opens, and there, instead of a maid with a breakfast tray, stands a policeman with a warrantthen you'll be glad you're alone.
But it could have been glorious.
Lovely.
Divine ... But that terrible policeman!
Goodbye ...
Who?
The Marquis de la Tours. He was in the lobby. But I don't think he saw me. I'm positive he didn't. Thank heaven! ... But when I came up here, right out in the hall there was King Boris of Alconia!
The tennis player?
The tennis player. He saw me. He bowed. What could I do? I nodded. Baron, I shouldn't have come!
But you came. And you must forget everything except that you are here, Countess.
Do you <u>know</u> King Boris?
Nono.
Do you know the Marquis de la Tours?
I would like to.
You'd better not. He's really very dull. But anyhow, when the king tells the marquis he saw me, the marquis will tell the marchesa. And the marchesa is the best friend of the Duchess of Chambro. And <u>she</u> will phone the Princess de Costa. The princess doesn't like mebut I don't care!
Why should you?
But she talks a lot. And before this night is over, all Venice will know it. And tomorrow it will be Grand Canal gossip! ... Oh!
Don't stop. Keep right on complaining. It's beautiful.
You know, when I first saw you, I thought you were an American.
Thank you!
Someone from another worldso entirely different. One gets so tired of one's own classprinces and counts and dukes and kingsah! And everybody talking shopalways trying to sell jewelry ... And then I heard your name and found you were just one of us.
Disappointed?
Noproud. Very proud!
That's hotel life. In one room a man loses his wallet and in another room a man loses his head.
Please. When I came here it was for a little adventurea little game which you play tonight and forget tomorrow. But something has changed meand it isn't the champagne. The whole thing is new to me. Very new. I've got a confession to make to you. Baron, you are a crook. You robbed the gentleman in two fiftythree, five, seven, and nine. May I have the salt?
Please.
Thank you.
The pepper, too?
No, thank you.
You're very welcome. Countess, believe me, before you left this room I would have told you everything ... And let me say this with love in my heart Countess, you are a thief. The wallet of the gentleman in two fiftythree, five, seven, and nine is in your possession. I knew it very well when you took it out of my pocket. In fact, you tickled me. But your embrace was so sweet ...
I like you, Baron.
I'm crazy about you. By the way, your pin.
Thank you, Baron.
Not at all, Countess ... There's one very good stone in it.
What time is it?
Darling! Now tell metell me all about yourself. Who are you?
You remember the man who walked into the Bank of Constantinople and walked out <u>with</u> the Bank of Constantinople?
Monescu!
Gaston Monescu.
Gaston!
I always liked him. Especially last year in Munich ...
Last year? It can't be that long.
Yes! Don't you remember the day you took that Chinese vase from the Royal Palace and made it into a lamp for my night table?
Darling, then let's be honest and return it to the lady.
And take the twenty thousand francs ...
Right.
Sweetheart, what day is today?
The fourteenth of May.
And tomorrow is the fifteenth. And the day after tomorrow
The six
We'll go to Venice, to the same hotel!
We'll take the Royal Suite!
Two fiftythree, five
Seven and nine!
And we'll celebrate the second anniversary of the day we didn't get married!
Darling!
the other half, contrary to custom, shall be delivered in cash into Madame's personal custody. Darling, that means that on the second of June we'll have eight hundred and fifty thousand francs.
And her <u>jewelry</u> is worth a fortune!
No jewelry! Hands off jewelry! If we're brokeall right. I might pick up a millionfranc necklace. But in times like <u>these</u> when we're doing a <u>cash</u> <u>business</u>why take a chance on jewelry?
You! And she's willing to pay as high as fifty francs!
What?
But it's not enough!
<u>This</u> <u>woman</u> <u>has</u> <u>more</u> <u>than</u> <u>jewelry</u>.
Ah!
Did you ever take a good look at heruh
Certainly!
They're all right, aren't they?
Beautiful. And what of it? Let me tell you something: so far as I'm concerned, her whole sex appeal is in that safe!
Gaston. Let's open itright now! Let's get away from here! I don't like this place!
Oh, no, darling. There's <u>more</u> sex appeal coming on the first of the month. It's only ten days ... Eight hundred and fifty thousand francs.
Darling, remember you're Gaston Monescu. You're a crook. I want you as a crook. I love you as a crook. I worship you as a crook. Steal, swindle, robbut don't become one of those useless, goodfornothing gigolos!
Filiba ...
YesFiliba! VeniceGrand Hotel room two fiftythree
Five, seven, and nine
Yes! Now don't worry!
yse seven, eight, nine, two. We have to clear out. Railroad station? Ticket office, please.
He recognized you!
Nonot yetbut Two tickets to Berlinfirst class and sleepernight train ... Right ... Right ... Leave them in the name ofDon Ignacio Fernandez ... Right ... Thank you.
Spanish passports?
Correct. Now the train leaves
At twelve twenty. I know. Lyons two, four, seven, one. Two more days and we'd have seven hundred and fifty thousand francs more!
Well, we'll have to take what's here. A bird in hand is worth two in jail.
Hello ... Is this the Spanish consulate? This is Doa Ignacio Fernandez. My husband and I are leaving tonight for Berlin ... Is it too late to get a visa this afternoon ... ? Thank you, thank you. How long will it take you?
I don't know. Fortunately, she has a dinner engagement tonight. I'll meet you at the stationmidnight. Hello ... Yes? What? ... You found a handbag? Well, you're three weeks too late!
Well, see you at the Berlin Express.
By the way, how is your German?
<u>Grossartig</u><u>kolossal</u>!
<u>Also</u>, <u>um</u> <u>zwoelf</u> <u>Uhr</u>.
<u>Am</u> <u>Berliner</u> <u>Zug</u>.
<u>Auf</u> <u>wiedersehn</u>.
<u>Auf</u> <u>wiedersehn</u>.
Are you insane? You've to get out of here at once! She may come back any minute.
What time is your rendezvous?
Now, Lily
Yes, <u>M'sieu</u> <u>Colet</u>?
You <u>have</u> to get out of here!
That's what I'm here forto get out! I want to get away from here, from youas fast as I can and as far as a hundred thousand francs will take me. Sixtyfive, ninetyfour
Don't you <u>realize</u>
Thirtyfive to the leftsixty three, eight ... I wouldn't fall for another man if he were the biggest crook on earth ... Seventysix, eightyfour, fiftyfive What has she got that I haven't got?
Lily, you must listen to me.
Shut up! Don't make up any stories!
But, Lily
Don't you dare lie to me! I know you love me. Well, why don't you say something? Come onbe brilliant. Talk yourself out of itbluff yourself in! Shut up, you liar, you! That's what I want! This is real! Money! Cash!
And you
Lily
Leave me alone! You were willing to sacrifice a hundred thousand francs for her. Well she's worth it! [ You were willing to pay a hundred and twentyfive thousand for a <u>handbag</u>. You can pay a <u>hundred</u> thousand for him!]
GoodbyeMadame Colet and Company!
Lily!
You see, the bag has just been found, and the reaction of relief from her former excitement and strain is just a little too much for her. It's not very serious, but just the same we'd better not take any chances.
Just as you say, Doctor.
Thank you, Major.
Good day, Doctor.
Good day, Major.
No, no, no! I disagree with you absolutely. That's the trouble with you artillery men.
Now just a minute, Major
No, Captain, I tell you
M'sieu Laval, there are several things I've wanted to ask you for quite a while. I understand you are from Marseilles.
Umhum ...
You must be related to the Lavals of Marseilles.
Just a second.
I hope you find the figures correct.
I hope so, too.
M'sieu Laval, I have enjoyed the confidence of this family
For more than forty years. So Madame told me.
And I have known the Lavals of Marseilles for more than thirty years.
And you, M'sieu Giron, seem to be disturbing my examination of <u>this</u> <u>report</u>.
Examination! M'sieu Laval, what are you insinuating? I have enjoyed the confidence of this family for more than forty years. How long have you enjoyed Madame's confidence? Three weeks, I believe.
Two weeks and three days.
Umhum!
Are <u>you</u> insinuating anything, M'sieu Giron?
No, not at all!
Well, that's fine. Then you are not insinuating that I am avoiding questions. And I am not insinuating that you won't let me examine this report.
I was only asking if you are related to the Lavals of Marseilles.
And I was only asking you if you would let me examine your report without interruption.
I don't see why any man should get excited when he is asked about his hometown.
And I don't see any reason for any man getting nervous when somebody checks over the figures of his report.
Are you insinuating that this is not an honest report?
I am only insinuating that you are nervous.
Nervous! Why should I be nervous?
I don't <u>know</u>, M'sieu Giron!
I'm very sorry, but this is no time, M'sieu Giron
I've got to see you.
But not now.
Right now! It's very important, M'sieu Laval.
It may be important to you, M'sieu Giron
No, to youM'sieu <u>Monescu</u>.
Yes, m'sieu.
And you will be out by tomorrow morning.
Very well, m'sieu.
Otherwise I'll call the police
Yes, m'sieu. M'sieu Giron!
What is it?
You have enjoyed the confidence of this family for more than forty years. You must be a man of about about sixtyfive. Let's see You will be exactly eightyseven when you come out of prison.
What do you mean?
You say I am a crook.
I know it!
Then why didn't you call the police? Why <u>don't</u> you call the police? I'll tell you whyyou crook, you.
M'sieu ...
Monescu.
M'sieu Monescu!
Just call me Gaston.
Yes, sir? What shall we start with, Baron?
Oh, yes ... Well, that's not so easy. Beginnings are always difficult.
Yes, Baron.
If Casanova suddenly ... turned out to be Romeo ... having supper with Julietwho might become Cleopatra ... How would you start?
I would start with cocktails.
Umhum. Very good. Excellent!
It must be the most marvelous supper. We may not eat it, but it must be marvelous.
Yes, Baron.
And, waiteryou see that moon?
Yes, Baron.
I want to see that moon in the champagne.
Yes, Baron. Moon in champagne.
I want to see
Yes, Baron.
And as for you, waiter
Yes, Baron?
I don't want to see you at all!
No, Baron! I beg your pardon.
Thank you.
You're not safe anywhere nowadays.
But please, Baron. We're not supposed to breathe a word of it. You won't tell anybody I told you?
You can trust me.
Yes, Baron. Thank you.
Good morning, Major.
Good morning. I'dI'dI'd like to look at some cuff links.
Nice day, Major.
Umm.
You're looking fine, Major.
Now see here, my good man. I've had just about enough of your insulting remarks!
No doubt about itit's that secretary.
Funny, the kind of men women fall for.
No color, no sparklebut dependable.
The type they marry.
You know, I'm not the marrying type. I like to take my fun and leave it.
Nice suit.
Like it?
Smart. London, eh?
Ogilvie and Oglethorpe.
I thought so.
He's really not a bad fellow.
Just dull.
Insignificant ... He's a secretary, always <u>was</u> a secretary, always <u>will</u> be.
Funnythe first time I saw him I thought he was a doctor!
Doc!
Pardon me, m'sieu, but I have the feeling we have met somewhere before.
I'm sorry, but I don't seem to recall the occasion. No, I'm afraid ...
Wellthen it must be my mistake. I beg your pardon.
Yes, M'sieu Filiba?
You see No, no! And <u>yet</u> <u>Did</u> Ididnow <u>where</u> could we have
I wanted to say goodbye to you.
Goodbye, M'sieu Filiba.
But before I say goodbye I want to ask you one question: Have you ever been in Venice?
No.
You've <u>never</u> been in Venice?
No ... Have <u>you</u> ever been in Vienna?
No.
Amsterdam?
No.
Constantinople?
No.
You've never been in Constantinople?
No!
But you <u>have</u> been in Venice?
Yes!
Let me tell you, Venice <u>can't</u> <u>compare</u> with Constantinople.
But
I don't care <u>what</u> you say! In Constantinople at least you have streets, sultans, pashas
And harems ... ?
<u>All</u> <u>kinds</u>.
The representative of the police wants to know how much money you had, M'sieu Filiba.
I had exactly twenty thousand lire. I had just cashed a traveler's check and put it in my wallet.
Why did you let this man in, M'sieu Filiba?
Well, he knocked at the door. You see, I was expecting twouhtwo business associates.
And then what happened, M'sieu Filiba?
I said, "Come in." And there he was. A finelooking man with a moustache and long sideburns. He said, "Good evening. I'm the doctor." I said, "Doctor?" He said, "Yes, the doctor. I came to see about your tonsils."
The representative of the police wants to know if there is anything wrong with your tonsils.
No!
<u>Niente!</u>
That's just what I tried to tell him. Well, one word led to another. He really was a very charming fellow. So we talked for about ten minutes.
What did you talk about?
About tonsils.
<u>Tonsili!</u>
So I said to myself, "All right, if he wants to look at them, let him look at them. No harm in that." And then he said, "Say ah." And then I said, "Ah." And that's all I remember ... And when I woke up, I still had my tonsils, but my pocketbook was gone.
still studying the vase. Mariette appears. He turns to her.
Where did you find it?
Is this what you mean, M'sieu Laval?
erect in sweater, arms folded.
No!
in doorway. He bows, returns into office; door shuts.
Eleven o'clock!
A man in love, completely shaken. He sits on bed, thinks, then takes telephone slowly, decisively.
With the compliments of Colet and Company!
He bows, goes. Door shuts behind him.
M'sieu Laval, Madame would like to talk to Mademoiselle Gautier for a moment.
Very well, Jacques.
Pardon me, m'sieu. Madame Colet would like to see you in the living room.
At once, Jacques. We'll continue later.
M'sieu Laval, M'sieu Filiba would like very much to see you.
In a moment.
on staircase; from Gaston's point of view. He stops.
Yes, M'sieu Laval?
Madame has changed her mind. She'll be down in a minute.
M'sieu Giron is downstairs.
Tell M'sieu Giron I can't see him now. Impossible! And, Jacques. Dismiss the car! Madame is not going.
Yes, M'sieu Laval!
What? I may lose it again? But I haven't found it yet! I'm sorry. Goodbye! Yes?
So you lost a handbag, madame?
Yes.
And it had diamonds in the back.
Yes.
And diamonds in the front.
Yes.
Diamonds all over.
Well, have you found it?
No! But let me tell youany woman who spends a fortune in times like these for a handbagphooey, phooey, phooey!
Captain...
Reilly, what the hell happened out there? Why didn't you call for backup?
Sir, I
Take it down to the Bomb Squad, Artie
I'll do it.
What?
It's detonation cord, for a bomb.
I'll do it.
Goddamit, Reilly
Look, I saw these guys, I can i.d. them.
I know you're anxious to get back but... just stay out of homicide's way or I'll have you classifying fingerprints, understand?
Yes, sir.
Sir...
I thought I told you
What's this?
Report on the case so far.
You know after a shooting I would normally take your badge and weapon, but Glass called in already and confirmed it was clean.
Yes, sir.
But from now on, any leads on this case go to Pluchinsky. He's primary investigator and you are unofficially assigned to the Bomb Squad... you and your new friends are not to be playing detective any more. Got it?
Yes, sir.
She's refused to say a word to anyone. What made you think you could get her to talk?
I didn't. But I had to try.
Glass, sorry about Pooch, he was a good man. We don't have time to give you a break right now, we're going ahead and
My God, you're going to use her, aren't you?
Glass, you're to stand by with your team.
I promised her she'd be safe.
It's our only option.
It won't work, he'll know it's a trap...
Reilly, you're done for now. What the hell were you thinking directing the Bomb Squad Team into hot pursuit. They had no business
I know.
You've been at the center of two suspect fatalities and two Police Officer fatalities. I'll need your badge and your weapon.
Reilly, what the hell are you?
Fire me later. Close in and we got the bastard.
Pull back. You're only an observer.
Reilly, what's happening? Reilly! Reilly! Do not engage. We're five minutes
We'll keep him pinned in, you guys hurry up!
Reilly, Vice. I
Quiet!
Make an appointment.
It's about this.
P.E.T.N ...
What?
Vice cop on a homicide?
Captain assigned me to assist you.
Device.
Huh?
A what?
IRA  instant retirement account.
Got it! Ace Match Company, Flint, Michigan.
You mean you just? ... You keep a record of... matches?
T.J., what're you doing?
My first undercover assignment. I gotta look good, right?
So what're we looking for?
Someone who smokes French cigarettes.
In this crowd? It's gonna be Marlboros, Camels, and maybe a few Kools.
Looks like Pooch's doing okay.
He's married, he don't even know what a lesbian is.
Nice to be here.
That feeling won't last long.
Know what the problem is, kid? You're too ugly to get propositioned.
Look who's talking, old man.
C'mon, it's a quiet night.
Next week we work the park.
I gotta get back on top. Get off the sleaze detail.
You will, one day at a time. I'll be old and grey when it happens...
So what'll you do? After they give you the gold watch.
Hell, I got a gold watch... it just don't work. Maybe they'll give me a new fishing pole, or something useful.
You don't fish.
How hard can it be? The grand kids been buggin' me about taking them camping.
You outta the city... that's a fish out of water. What's with all this family talk lately, anyway?
One of these days you're gonna get tired of fighting the shit. When that happens, you'll wish you had family.
No thanks. I got close but it never woulda worked.
Why don't you just shoot it and put it out of its misery?
What are you talking about, it's purring like a kitty.
I thought you said what'shername's brother was going to fix it.
She didn't work out, had to cut her loose.
What was it this time?
She wanted to cook me breakfast.
We're vice, I didn't see no pimps or hookers in that van. But if you're so gungho, we'd best call it in for some backup.
Nah, let's just take a looksee.
You okay?
Yeah, just a nick ...
Mike...
Don't talk.
Take your time... one day at a time, kid...
It don't work
Ain't that a shit
That guy's wife must be pretty pissed off to play a trick like that.
No shit. I better send Meg flowers just in case.
Vice... Jesus.
That'd be some explosive pussy he's got his hands on.
Pooch, can you move it?
I don't know...
Good boy, Schnoz. Daddy loves you.
Scorch marks... looks like they used silly putty.
Fuckin A, I think I got two partial prints here!
Awright! How bout you, Glass, how's that chip shaking?
That's one more time than any of the rest of us have seen it.
Shit. We're fucked.
Oh shit...
Fuck factor ten.
He is!
Look, it's important.
Nitro, dash of Semtrex, vegetable oil ...
What kind of bomb was it?
Unsolved bombings in the last year... Boston, New York, Philadelphia... but no real match
Insurance?
How're you guys doing?
Still waiting for a miracle. Go ahead.
Mike. No thanks, I'm fine.
Time for bed, kiddos. Say goodnight.
Prints?
Nothing so far.
What about the ballistics report?
Lab's backed up, we're still waiting for it.
It's a bluff. The guy's full of crap.
We can't take the chance. Ring down to the Bomb Squad. I want them on alert.
What the hell's going on?
Sonofabitch... my nose... This fuckup is interfering with
Reilly, what're you doing here?
I'm filing charges against that mother
Can it, Pluchinsky. And shove some cotton up your nose.
I want to work this.
You're vice, not homicide. Besides, you don't have the experience and you're too personally involved.
But sir
Looks like the stuff my dad used to use to blow up tree stumps back in Scranton.
Maybe she knows your old man.
What the hell was that?
A ticking bomb...
You touch me again and
And what, you'll shoot me? Hey, don't mistake me for one of your partners, I'd like to make retirement in one piece.
You were lucky today, vice boy. Captain said to leave it alone, but just remember, I'm watching you.
I'm sorry, detective, but you're just not my type.
You okay?
Alex
I know. I warned them.
What is that?
Security.
What's the matter?
Nothing... just tired.
Why are we stopping here?
We're moving' on. I have to pick up the supplies. Just two little boxes.
No... No more killing.
Stay here.
Alex, please.
Stay in the truck.
Who are you calling, sis?
What? Nobody, I
Alex, please
Shut up! Who is this?
Drop it.
Take him!
Cover. It was suppose to be abandoned buildings, y'know. No one was suppose to get hurt. The night you busted us...We were checking to make sure there weren't any vagrants around. Scare them away.
Who is he?
Alex Swan. My brother. The other two are called Taylor and Leveau.
Taylor's dead.
There is a motel downtown, near the Machine Shop... the Suncrest. Room 138.
Thank you.
He's my brother...
Then why tell me?
People are dying.
No, we're terrorists, stay back or we'll blow.
We're a bit busy at the moment, I'll give you a statement in a few minutes if we're still alive.
Bev, you're the greatest...
Hey, I'm next.
Yeah, he's helping us work up a profile on this thing.
Hope you don't mind, Captain, might help us catch these guys that much sooner. Coming?
We've lost brothers too, we know what that's like.
Let's get something straight. We're doing you a favor. You're not exactly a guy we want around explosives.
C4, plastic explosive.
Helluva fuck factor.
Computer device?
Unlikely. Probably, cash register or something.
Glass, what is it?
I was wrong... this didn't come from any cash register.
Relax, Pooch, it's just a ticker, it's not personal.
Let's face it, we all knew it would happen sooner or later. The guy who can build a mousetrap that's better than we are ...
Lane oil...
A bowling alley.
What do ay say?
Meg's lasagna. Good eats, Reilly. C'mon.
Alright!
We've created a monster.
Jesus...
Reilly! He's loaded!
Assist? What the hell you know about tickers anyway?
Easy, guys.
What do you think?
Call upstairs, see what you can find out.
Right.
T.J., run a trace on this, see if you can pin down where it came from. Whoever these people are, let's hope they're all talk.
Whadaya mean?
It's from an IRA.
Oh shit...
Hey, matches are a very big thing in our line of work.
"Punks", huh?
Bev, give `em a call, find out what bowling alleys they supply in this area.
You got it.
We work fast enough for you?
Political.
Exactly my thinking. Except, none of the targets can actually be linked to government, political or special interest concerns. They seem to be just unrelated industrial companies. Some insured, some not.
Any word?
Nothing. Maybe they gave up, split town.
Who the heck're you?
You the Bomb Squad?
Where did you get this?
Off a girl's wrist. A suspect...
Highgrade det cord. This girl, either she's got strange taste in jewelry or she's into serious demolition.
What do you mean?
Sorry about that. That's an inch of the stuff, imagine what the whole thing'd do.
Thanks.
Alright, let's check it out.
We can start in the area where the robbery occurred.
What're you talking about?
When you need us, you love us, when you don't, we're shunned by the rest of the department.
We've got one hour. Are you coming or not?
What was? Why...?
That cop who bought it... you didn't tell us he was your partner.
What?
This isn't bumper cars, it's brain surgery. You wanna work with us, you do it our way, understand?
Now wait just a fucking
Be cool around my men, they don't trust strangers. And try not to swear so much, it's unattractive.
By the way, I'm Glass. This is T.J., and Pooch.
Mike Reilly.
We don't use the bword. Bad luck.
So you're the "Device Squad"... and you defuse "devices"?
Treat. We treat devices.
Anything else I should know?
Don't push it, slick.
I.R.A. device. Deadliest class of tickers in existence. Computerized, multiple sensors, booby traps, the works. First showed up in a series of I.R.A. bombings in London couple years ago. One of their boys tripped it on himself and they went back to a less complicated timers. The Girl, is she Irish?
She's not talking. But, she could be. So, obviously, you've seen one of these devices before?
Only once, at Redstone.
Where...?
Nice performance back there. Where'd you learn that, Mike Ditka Sensitivity Seminar?
Hey, look
No you look, mister! First, you don't go calling my men names. It's bad for morale. Second, us "punks" happen to know a heck of alot more about police work than any vice cop ever did.
Oh yeah? Prove it.
Drive.
The place has already be combed. Forensics pulled over a hundred sets of prints inside.
Then let's go see what they missed.
So what were they doing here?
I don't know. You tell me?
An abandoned machine shop... nice place to build devices. Low rent, too. But, you and Rice ruined their perfect hideout.
You mentioned something called Redstone.
Redstone's the army training center in Alabama where they send the cream of the crop to learn about tickers.
Cream of the crop, huh? You?
Top of my class at West Point, thank you very much. Then off to Redstone. First half of the course we learned how to build devices... second half, we'd take them apart. Everything from firecrackers to hydrogen bombs.
Sounds like terrorist heaven.
There were a few guys in my class with names like John Smith, Bill Jones. I'd see them up ahead in the hall, call their name, but they wouldn't turn around. C.I.A. Funny thing, they'd always disappear after the first half of the course.
Just how easy is it to build a... device?
With a little training, you could go into a house and just from stuff in the bathroom and kitchen make something that'd finish off that alleged car of yours. Heck, didn't you ever watch MacGyver?
Typical profile, usually losers, nobodies that're afraid to confront their victims. They like scaring people. That's why they call in their threats. Same mentality as obscene phone callers.
Except they'll blow you up if you don't play along.
No, ninetyninety percent of them are full of baloney. They're into the power trip, not the damage. What scares me is that this guy is so sophisticated he could blow up whatever he wants, then disappear. The worst of the bunch, they love the challenge of creating the wildest device ever... and they love the carnage.
This is where the van was parked.
Yep.
Then, it's gotta be here somewhere ...
Look, it's a longshot...
Bingo!
Nitrocellulose. What is that, some kind of explosive?
Industrial wood oil. Separately, any one of these things could lead in several directions, but together ...
How long are we going to stay?
`Til we get a better lead.
Not bad for Bomb squad, eh?
What not bad. You've got a series of bombs, devices, that may or may not be connected, set by one or many nutjobs, who may or may not be linked.
Right.
Well... it's more than we had ten minutes ago.
You guys seem pretty tight.
We've gotta be. In this business, you don't exactly make alot of outside commitments.
Why do you do it?
I don't know, it's strange... it's not the best career path, but when you get the bug, there's nothing you can do about it. See, when you beat one of these things...
So cut both.
One shuts it down, one turns arms it.
Which one's which?
I don't know. There's an old saying, when in doubt, cut the yellow wire.
How long were you hooked?
What?
You don't have to talk about it.
Pittsburgh, two years ago. Partner died, no backup, I was too gungho. As usual.
Take a tip from the Bomb Boys, always assess, if only for a second.
I know. I was working a drug ring, deep cover. Played the part too well. When they pulled me out, I wasn't a cop anymore. My fiance had dumped me. Next thing I knew, I was out here on the street, doped up, auditioning for the morgue when this tough old vice cop found me, cleaned me up, gave me a second chance. He promised Captain Winters he'd look out for me.
Your partner?
I guess I didn't realize how much I needed him. He kept me straight. It's been tough every second since.
I terrible with mechanical things.
No you're not, you just don't understand them. Here, do what I tell you.
It's working.
Congratulations, you just built your first ticker.
Exgirlfriend?
Be right back.
What's up?
Where you guys at?
Driving in circles, waiting for
Catch that alert? That's him in the UHaul.
How do you know?
Cuz he got the girl, now he's leaving town.
Should we head for the Interstate?
Would you?
No, I'd slip out past the hotel district, behind Greyhound...
Me, too.
Glass, Eighth Street, alley behind Grand Hotel. Cut him off.
You got it.
Fuck factor?
Off the scale.
What do we do?
Talk to me. Let's assess.
Right.
C'mon, talk to me! We can do it!
He has a timer going as backup, in case we got a hold of the remote. Okay... first, run your fingers along the edges, feel for a sensor.
Good, now the other side.
Nothing.
Okay, let's go in.
Keep talking.
Close your eyes, feel your fingertips. Tell me everything you feel.
Wires... metal, cold... something soft...
Don't touch that.
More metal... sharp edge...
Stay to your left.
Something round, two wires ...
That's the blasting cap  good! Okay, now grab it by the base and pull it straight up. No, Wait...
What's wrong?
Too easy. There's gotta be something else in there, another cap maybe.
Make up your mind, trigger.
Yeah, another round thing.
Okay, one of the caps turns it on, the other shuts it down.
Which one's which?
I don't know.
What... ?
When in doubt, pull the yellow wire.
How the hell do you feel yellow?
No excuses, just do it!
Dispatch, this is Reilly.
Go ahead.
Patch me through to the Bomb Squad.
Aren't you on suspension?
Just do it.
Hang on.
May I help you?
I'm looking for the Bomb Squad.
They're not here.
Where are they?
And you are...?
Officer Reilly, vice.
There out on a call, perhaps I can help you
Where?
f 2600 block of Lakefront. A limousine. But, I
Thanks.
Hey, that's the guy
We just got a bomb threat upstairs.
How's the print coming?
One partial from the handle matches the suspect from last night. Name's Carl Taylor. Long record of arson, assault, the works. The other print  we got nothing from our data base or the FBI or CIA... still waiting for Interpol.
Damn.
Coffee, Mike?
No thanks, Bev.
Yes.
....going well. How could I be so wrong. SCO 1202 cross wired a 904. He's been receiving extra credit. He offered me some.
Yes
I did not accept any. I... I wanted... to. But I didn't. You know I didn't. Don't you?
Yes.
My mate has been acting very strange. I can't explain it.....but. I haven't been feeling very well myself. I don't know, maybe it's me. I needed an SP9 last night. I feel as if something odd were happening to me. Something....
Yes.
I can't understand. The sedatives....
....I'm taking SP5, but it doesn't seem strong enough. I have a hard time concentrating. Please forgive me, I slipped on....
You are a true believer. Blessings of the state, blessings of the masses. Thou art a subject of the divine. Created in the image of man, by the masses, for the masses. Let us be thankful we have an occupation to fill. Work hard; increase production; prevent accidents, and be happy.
....with me? What am I to her or she to me? Nothing. She's an ordinary roommate. I..I share...
Yes...
...rooms with her. Our relationship is normal, conforming. We share nothing but space. What is she doing to...
Yes...
...to me. I think I'm dying.
You are engaged in an unauthorized procedure. Check cybernetic manual F45. If you do no have an F45, you are in violation. This is a double A restricted precinct. Remain where you are. Authorities will arrive shortly.
You should know better than that!
What are you doing here?
I was lost.
...and you're not lost now?
No, I...
Which way?
That way.
How do you know?
Look more closely.
We've lost SEN!
What?
Lost SEN! He'll never find us.
Too late....stay close.
...it doesn't matter. The rest of it just didn't happen.
What are you talking about. How do you know? I need her! I need her. She needs me. I've got to get to her.
Maternity ward, huhh!
We'll never make it through that mainway...I wonder what happened to SEN. I'm crazy! This whole thing is crazy...What am I doing? My mind is full of so many things I can't think of anything, anymore. Who are you?
Who? Me?...I don't know.
What kind of answer is that?
I don't know.
You have to!....I'm 1138 THX Magnum manipulator 347 cell 94107 Precinct 3 Residence: Level 6421 Complex 12 Ramp 5. Roommate 3417 LU...H.
Oh, That! I'm 5555 SRT Entron..
I don't care.
What was that....
Must be an expressway.... You don't have to stay here, you know....
What have you done, Cut your hand?
I'm all right THX rises and they begin to walk along the passageway. At the end of the hall is a small metal door, a sign read "Level 842CON G, Division of Plastic, Vendable manufacturing stations" the door is jammed and it is difficult to open. Finally the latch snaps and the door swings open.
Would you like part of this? ....It's not much.
All the insides are gone!
This one has eyes. Why did they leave your eyes? Could you ever....
No!....
I knew him.
Soon he'll be a plastic cube.
Shut up.
That's not it.
No?
She's not there
No...... She's dead THX........
You don't know that!
All right...
Remember this...?
Where's LUH?
Look more closely.
No...no you're wrong.
I'm only trying to help you.
I'm sorry.
What do you want?
Save yourself....
Just look at all those people.
I thought of something.....
I'm sure it's warmer in her than outside, though. I haven't been out yet, but it usually is...the control is fouled...
Where is LUH?
What?
Why did you have LUH come here?
Why are you so concerned?
What's going on?
I want you for my roommate.
Where's LUH?
It will be good for both of us. I've got it all arranged.
I don't understand. Living....selection is computed. You can't... What have you done to LUH? She was here..
We had a long talk and she agreed that it would be a good idea for you to switch. She felt that you had not been accurately mated to her in the first place... You're upsetting yourself. Would you like something?
You're in violation.
Don't say that. You look... You're not well.
I won't have another mate like ONA. You rate very high in sanitation. I've checked. In fact, I am surprised that you were ever matched with LUH. Her ratings are very erratic  you know what I mean. We'll be happy.
I don't feel well.
What are you doing here? You're not cleared for this area!
You know I have a way with the computers. I can clear myself for any area.....almost.
I'll report you. It's....
Listen to me....You have no need to distrust me. We're going....
Get out of here, Leave me alone.
I'm leaving.
What?
I'm leaving.
When?.....How?
Right now.
But you can't...you.
What?
Look!
I can't see him at all. He's been destroyed.
No, look! Three degrees from the central azimuth.
How far did you go? Was it cold?
You have nothing to fear. You're safe again.
Well?
Out of a random selection of 150 locations with 150 possible sightings, there were 146 absolute negatives and four conditionals, most of which occurred in the early familiarization stages of the experiment and can be largely discounted.
Not very encouraging.
On the contrary! It absolutely proves what I have always felt. We are located in an apparently uniform space with no visible limits. We are just now beginning to push back the clouds of ignorance and perceive the truth. We must continue the search.
I've got it! Astounding!
What?
No one could have imagined anything onethousandth as fantastic as the sober facts uncovered by patient inquiry. This world is in a state of staticmobility: we are at the same time moving and standing still.
I can just barely see him. I think he's leaving.
Impossible!
He's coming back for the rest of us. He can't make it alone.
I wonder how far he went. He's gathered invaluable information out there.
Wait! I'll talk to him.
Ask him about the air. He looks out of breath.
That's the most ridiculous thing I've ever heard.
It may seem ridiculous to the untrained mind, but if you were able to interpret the calculations you would see that an apparent paradox is actually a perfect and elegant system in concept and design.
We must escape. We have plans. We can leave. We must wait until...
Incredible!
I thought you were through with it!
We cannot stay here and allow ourselves to be destroyed. You can work with us. An organized plan of escape must be devised first. Could you see anything? You want to leave. You're not like them. You must have left something, or someone.
What's going on....what are you doing?
We're leaving.
What?
We're leaving.
Who? Who's leaving?
THX and me.
But you can't. We must escape.
Then why are they holding us here? Why don't they destroy us right away? Economically, it's not sound at all. Very much unlike....
I've said many times before, and I guess I'll have to repeat it again for your...
You always manage to avoid the issue: What's wrong with our present condition? We're COMFORTABLE and we have plenty of food...I feel absolutely no threat because there is no threat. Why incite trouble? You should examine your emotions. It is senseless...
What are you talking about? When did you sleep last? Do you know what your trouble is? You're blind. You've been here so long you can't see what is happening. We must unite. We need unity. We need action. ) We have come to a time when we must....
But we need a creative dissent. Our voices are not joined in any harmonious chorus, but the differences are differences of emphasis, not of fundamentals. Now, the new alignment's greatest need is to communicate with all its elements, rather than march along in parallel line that never converge. Tomorrow as we focus the new movement more clearly, we will gain a new unity.
What?
Good Lord!
A shelldweller. They live in the outer shell of the city. Quite unique, there have been two here before. They smell.
There goes another of your disciples.
It seems I am destined to endure many frustrations....but at the same time I am secure in the knowledge that the thrust of my studies has been in the right direction, and that even if it remains incomplete, my search has not been in vain.
I'm not hungry.
Well it's fixed, so you'll have to eat it.
No, your going to eat it, or it will go to waste.
What's the matter with you?
What's this? Why did you change it?
You've seen enough.
You know I don't feel well.
Eat your dinner.
What did you get?
I have to see SEN. I've just been given a shift change.
When?
Now.
Now?
He wants me to come to his quarters.
A shift change should come through the scheduling office.
I don't know.
Don't go.
I have to... he's a G34
You don't have to... I don't trust him. You ought to file a report.
No, don't make trouble. It's nothing.
Then why did you bring it up?
I didn't. You asked me about the card. You're going to get us into trouble.
I haven't done anything.
Don't be so sure.
I've never been under the table before.
Look,dirt!
That's not dirt...Can't be dirt.. Dirt is a violation.
Looks like dirt.
Look, food!
That's not food. Can't be food.
Looks like food.
Now...now, I'm sorry...don't  don't....please. It's just... I was happy. Why get me involved? You told SEN that you weren't satisfied with me.
What?...Oh, no, THX. That's not true. Not satisfied? THX, I need you so much.
I was so scared...I didn't know what would happen with you...once I started. I almost let you go on so many times. It will be worth it, together. When I was alone, I knew.
But it's so hopeless...you're so beautiful.
What time is it?
What?
I said what time is it? How long was I out?
It's 3+27 hundred
Three! I'm going to be late for my shift.
No! Don't go.
They'll come for me right away if I'm not there. I have to go.
Don't take anything.
I'll try.
Promise...please don't THX leaves the room.
What are you doing here? Is anything wrong?
No....I though I'm afraid.
You're not cleared for this precinct. Let's cross over first.
You slipped on a T297 transfer just before lunch, didn't you?
What?
On the cervix transfer, you almost lost the T297.
What do you think you're doing? You're going to get us arrested.
But...you...
I can't go on like this. I can't.... I don't just sit around and watch people. If I make a mistake, it's all over. You see it every day. Do you want to see me taken away in pieces?
I don't want to lose you.
What are you doing?
I don't know.
If you....if you go back on sedation, you won't feel the same way about me. You'll report me for drug evasion.
I've got a slip movement to install on my next shift. I'll never make it the way I am now.
I couldn't turn you in, not now. I....I know I wouldn't!
You don't know. You don't....
If I take something, you suffer. If I don't, I stuff....
I know you can do it without sedation, You can, I know you can.
Then what? It can't go on forever. You know it can't.
We could leave, and live in the superstructure....
It's all right now, shhhh it's all right.
Don't let them separate us.
Are you all right?
AH UGH.
They know. They've been watching us. I can feel it.
They don't know.
They're watching us now.
No one can see us now we're alone.
no...no, no.
Oh, THX... hold me, hold me, THX holds her tightly, tears in his eyes. They kiss, and LUH hides her head in THX's chest.
It's the end.
I'm not afraid...I'm not afraid.
It's wrong; so wrong, what we've done....
THX!
No!...No!...
I can't hear him.
Cortex bonding....possible temporary. Before you report a possible equipment malfunction, you check the subjects....?
Stress category.
Correct. Origin?
Birth born....UMMM...Sexact.
Violation?
Drug evasion with....
triple three, triple three! easy.....
Drug evasion with assorted perversions
Correct. Now secure a sinex drop reading.
A sinex drop reading of less then 2000 degrees with an accompanying loss of greater then 350 degrees since admission may indicate....?
Permant cortex bond.
Correct.
HUMMMM.....
What happened?
See if you can get a reading on tactal retention. Try to estimate it without a meter reading.
Hurry up.
4732...?
Too low.
Control ON.
No, evidently you reversed the polarity on his lobal travel. Secure another sinex drop.
4000 degrees is usually the point of....?
Vocasity
No, Tetanty.
Could you stop, please. You're giving me a headache.
A headache?
Yeah, a headache. My head hurts. You're making me uncomfortable.
I'm making you uncomfortable. Baking away in a desert in the middle of nowhere facing threehundredthousand screaming Iraqis with nerve gas scud missiles, that doesn't bother you. But me making a little noise is driving you out of your skull.
Yes. Yes. That's exactly it. Yes.
Okay.
We ought to kick their asses anyway. Even if they do get out of Kuwait we ought to kick their asses.
I don't think we'll go to war. We shouldn't even be here. This isn't our fight, it's a regional conflict. It should be decided regionally.
People are suffering.
People were suffering in Afganistan, and we didn't do anything.
When do you ever point the soles of your feet at people?
I'm saying don't do it accidently.
Oh yeah. Accidently.
Come on. You're going to get us in trouble.
It was an accident. You saw it was an accident.
I'm just trying to help you guys out. It doesn't hurt to know something about Saudi Arabia.
Spanish wasn't hard enough?
I thought it would be good to know.
What does that mean?
Don't shoot me, I'm friendly. You can use that when you surrender.
How do you say "Come here, baby. I'm horny." I can use that now.
Don't even try it. You offend a woman out here you're in serious trouble.
What is this?
Now you need me.
What is it? You know so much about Arabland tell me what it is.
He says it's a box.
Yeah, you're funny.
It's a puzzle box. If you can figure out how to open it there's supposed to be a treasure inside.
For real? A treasure?
And you're the guy who's going to open it.
I could.
You get it yet?
Naw, nothing.
You will. You'll get it.
I'll show Epps. He'll be sorry when I get this thing open.
You really think there's a treasure inside?
I don't care if there's a lump of coal in here. I just want to be able to rub Epps' face in it when I crack this thing.
Jaeger?
What?
You know the fifteenth is the deadline for the Iraqis to get out of Kuwait.
Yeah. So?
That's in two days.
Like I said; so?
They're cancelling all leaves, all passes. No more drills. We stand at full ready starting
What's your point, Wes? You have a point?
We're going to war, aren't we. If they're doing all that it must mean we're going to war.
It doesn't mean anything.
Why would they do all that if we weren't?
Jaeger?
What!?
You ever think about dying?
Come on, man. I almost had this thing open.
You ever think about it? You ever worry?
The only thing I worry about is how much Iraqi ass I'm going to be able to kick before this whole thing is over. The only people who I've got anything to worry about are the poor, dumb camel jockeys who don't know enough to get out of the way when I come rolling at them; an M16 in each hand, and a grenade between my teeth. Now if you'll excuse me, soldier, I'd like to get back to my box. I've got a treasure to find.
Atatatatat.
This is so weird. It's happening, but it's not. It's like a TV show, and we're part of it.
Atatatatat.
The longer the air force hits the Iraqis, the safer it'II be for us when we have to engage.
You know what, Wes? If you get a note from your mommy they might excuse you from the war.
It's...it's...I don't know what it is.
It's a container. Break the seal.
That's it. It's over. Eighteen hours into the war and it's over.
Those soldiers have got loafers on. What kind of army gives their soldiers loafers?
We...we could go home with something else.
What?
With...with millions. Millions of dollars.
You're not saying what I think you're saying. I can't believe you're even thinking it.
It's right here. This region; anNagaf. I got recon photos. There're no troops there, no fighting
You don't know where the Iraqis have moved to. And our forces haven't even engaged the Republican Guard yet, we don't know
It's about a hundred miles from where we are now. How long do you think it would take us to
It's not a hundred miles. It's a hundred miles through three different kinds of terrain: Pure desert, mountains, a river. If the map is even real.
It's real. I'm telling you, it's real.
So you just want to cross into hostile territory in the middle of a war on a wild goose chase? It's crazy. Tell him it's crazy, Epps.
Epps, you're smarter than this. Jaeger I understand, but you're smarter.
You know it's real. You know it's real, and you know it's there. You know it.
You're insane if you think you'll find anything, and sure insane if you think you can get us there and back alive.
God! I don't believe I'm doing this. I don't.
Yes!
We're going to get court martialed, you know that.
Hell, we'll just buy our way out.
Epps, is that a sand dune.
Oh, no.
Hey, Wes, what kind of treasure you figure these people buried?
If! If there's a treasure.
Yeah. If. Whatever. What kind you figure it is?
I don't know. It would be small, easy to transport and hide. Gold or jewels. Probably gold.
Yeah! Gold! How much?
How the hell should I know how much?
If there's gold. If!
You know what I'm doing with my half?
This is too much. You don't even have the money and you're wasting it.
A car is not just a car where I come from. I had this friend, had this wicked candy apple red Sixtyfour and a half Mustang
Iraqis.
Oh, God!
Two vehicles. They're not supposed to be here.
Oh, Jesus!
They're not...I had the pictures. They're not supposed to be here!
Yeah! Yeah!
I think I'm going to throw up. I am. I'm going to toss.
You see that? Right by us. They went right by. You had them Epps; you called it.
I thought we were dead.
Yeah, well, we're not.
We got to get out of here.
We have to go back.
We're not going anywhere. Not 'til we get what we came for.
We just about got killed. You know what happened? We just about got killed, and you want to go on?
So, you just let us drive on knowing we were losing fuel? Knowing we were going to run low in the middle of nowhere?
...I figured...I figured you'd turn back.
We're not stranded. We've got enough gas in the other reserve to get us back.
Then lets go back while we still can.
As soon as we hit the mountain we would have had to go on foot anyway. We're not that far. We can make it.
You two don't even know how crazy you are. You want to go on your sick, little treasure hunt then go ahead, but mark me absent.
You have to go with us, Wes.
Really? What is that, an order, <u>private</u>?
You have to go with us. You can't walk back...
Epps...
Doesn't matter. We're not going to be able to get him off it anyway.
How long we going to keep this up.
Until we're out of the mine field is how long.
Haven't found a mine for half a mile, or more.
That don't mean nothing. Iraqis could have just spread them out like that; make us think we're in the clear.
You want to crawl, crawl.
If all we wanted was the map out of you we could have taken it while you were standing on that mine pissing on yourself.
Probably would've too if Epps wasn't around to stop you.
I'm getting tired of you riding me, Jaeger.
Anytime you want to do something about it just let
Jesus! What the hell did he do that for? They're Iraqis. Why are Iraqis killing Iraqis?
Those people down there are Shi'ites. You've got Shi'ites in the south of Iraq and Khurds in the North. Neither of them've got much love for Saddam. Probably figured once the war started there might be an uprising, so he sent his soldiers out to slap them around some.
Is there anything you do know?
I know you're a pussy. I know that.
So?
We have to do something.
We're American soldiers. We don't abandon people.
Funny you should say that while we're out looking for gold.
You're the one wanted to kill Iraqis so bad.
I've got a new agenda now, it's get rich. The only way the Iraqis figure into that is not at all.
Think we can make it?
We make it, or we go back empty handed.
Maybe they're as scared of us as we are of them.
Just seems weird they didn't chase us.
What do you think?
Lines up with the map and the photos.
It's got a bottom.
Guess we know what the next stop is.
You down?
Yeah, we're down.
What do you see?
What the hell are you doing!?
I think we found something.
With what? He doesn't have a weapon.
He's a soldier. He doesn't need a weapon. He's got rocks. He's got bare hands.
Says he's one of the soldiers that was in the helicopter.
He lived through that?
Maybe we should give him some water.
All last night he could have been
I think he wants something to drink.
I'm not wasting my water on him.
So we'll take him with us. At least 'til we get back to the Hummer.
He'd just slow us down, and drink our water. And if we ran into any more Iraqis you know he'd sell us out.
Maybe we ought to...you know, bury him. Say some words over him.
You want to say some words?
You're going to burn up in those.
The white reflects the sun; it keeps you cooler. That's why they wear them.
Think the Iraqi's killed them all?
Probably shot a few. Scattered the rest. Murderers.
When my Shi'ite friends saw that they had shot an American they were very apologetic. Turns out we've been kicking ass in this little war. They figure we've finally gotten Saddam off their backs. They brought me to their camp, cleaned me up, fed me... I'm their new best buddy. America number one, Joe. But there's something the Shi'ites can't figure out: They can't figure out why my two buddies, two fellow Americans, left me out in the desert. They can't seem to figure out what those same two guys were doing in an Iraqi outpost. It's almost as if they were Iraqi spies, or something. And I've got to tell you they hate anything that's got to do with the Iraqis. See how I mean?
We had to take shelter in the checkpoint. Jesus, Wes, I killed the Iraqis in there.
You actually got around to killing someone. I'm impressed. I guess you're only half a bitch.
Woods.
Hey, Jaeger. What's up.
I'm looking for a favor. I need a map of Iraqi.
A map? All I got is maps. I'm gonna have Delayed Map Syndrome when I finally get out of here. What kind of map you need? Topographical, geographical, thermal?
That shouldn't be too hard to read. Iraq is the pink thing.
I could use some recon photos too.
Planning on going to war all by your lonesome?
Just...want to be ready when we do.
Ready for what? Sightseeing?
The photos.
Some good ones.
They're all good ones. Satellites we've got can snap a shot of the boil on Saddam's ass.
Saddam's got a boil on his ass?
Atatatatat. Atatatatat.
What are you doing?
What does it look like I'm doing? I'm killing Iraqis. Atatatatat. Atat atat
Atatatatat.
Knock it off!
Don't get pissed at me, just 'cause I want to be ready when this war starts.
Ready for what? What are you supposed to be doing?
I told you, I'm shooting Iraqis.
No you're not.
You know what? I think you got Schwarzkopf. You did! You got the General right in the ass. Now that's good shooting.
Blow me.
Another month in this desert and I might just.
Don't worry about Jaeger. He uses his personality as a form of birth control.
Blow me. Have I said that to you guys recently? Blow me.
Oh, man, you're not going to fall for that.
There might be something in there.
Yeah, the deed to the Brooklyn bridge.
There might be.
This is stupid. It's going on a month now. How long are they going to let the Air Force piss on those bastards? They can bomb them all they want, Saddam ain't going anywhere without a ground assault. What the hell is the army waiting for?
Why you in such a hurry to get to shooting?
I've got to have something to tell people when I get home besides I protected a stretch of dirt that nobody wanted for nothing in the first place.
You all want to lay off? God. I hope the Iraqis shoot me; put me out of my misery.
OH MY GOD!
What!? What!?
I did it! I got the box open.
You think?
Yeah, that's exactly what I think. You and the five thousand other suckers who bought those boxes. Let's get out of here. We got sand to protect.
They finally start the ground war, and where are we? Same place we've been since we got here. Securing freedom for the dirt.
Everybody's got a job to do. Figure it this way: At least you get to go home alive.
I'd like to go home alive with a couple of Iraqi scalps hanging from my belt.
Don't even. You're not going to show me that tired map.
Wait. Wait.
I think you've got some issues to deal with. Really, when we get out of here I'm pretty sure it's shrink time for you.
Just listen to me! I've been doing some reading. In the Sixteenth century this region was invaded by the Turks. It became part of the Ottoman empire. When the Turks rolled in they raped, they pillaged, the usual stuff. Anybody who had anything wanted to hide it from these bastards. They buried their treasures, drew maps, and hid the maps in puzzle boxes. I read about this, man. I read about it.
Wellllll, if you read it it must be true. Was it in the Star, or the Enquirer?
Christ! Wes, tell him. You know this stuff.
And you know what that area is? It's Iraq. IRAQ! We're doing a little thing with them right now; Desert Storm. Maybe you've read about it.
What we're doing is kicking ass. For God's sake they got Iraqis surrendering to news crews. The war is over. We've just got to keep shooting people 'cause the army spent all this money, and we've got to put on a show for the taxpayers.
It's war. People get lost all the time in war, cut off
We disappear for awhile. We disappear, we came back; nobody knows nothing.
But we all got to be in for this. We all go, or we do nothing.
It's going to be cool, Wes. It's all all right.
We go, we get rich, we go home. It's that easy.
Now this is war.
Roger that.
You're such a pussy, you know that? How'd you get in the army?
Cool it, Jaeger. Hey, Wes? Wes?
But that's the great thing about Gold. A little goes a long way.
You know what I'm doing with my part of the gold?
Third. What you're going to do with your third.
Yeah. I meant... You know what I'm going to do with it? I'm going to buy a Sixty three 'Vette Stingray. All tricked out and cherry. I'm going to be so sweet.
A car? You're going to buy a car?
You're getting gold, and you're going to blow it on wheels?
What are you going to do with your <u>third</u>?
Invest it.
Oh, that's fun.
It's not about being fun. It's about being smart. You take that money, you take care of it, let it grow, and you don't ever have to do anything again. Ever. That's freedom. That's what I'm talking about.
And I'm talking about enjoying myself.
You know, you sound just like a boy who's never
Take the binoculars.
Whwhat do you think
TAKE THE GODDAMN BINOCULARS!
Shut up! Both of you shut the hell up!
We've got to do something. We've got to turn around.
We can see them, they can see us. We run, they chase.
They'll shoot us!
We run they'll shoot us anyway. If we keep driving they might think we friendlies; Iraqis. Or even if they know we're Americans they might get scared, think we're part of a detachment and keep on going.
They're not going to
It's the only way. We drive!
Figure they don't want to mess with us anymore than we want to mess with them.
Look at you, not even breaking a sweat. You're cool, boy. You're cool.
Steady it out!
I steady it out, they blow us out of the sand!
She okay?
Yeah. Yeah, she's fine.
Let's go.
What?
I'm just thinking, you know, if the rest of the boys knew what we're doing. I mean if they knew what we were coming back with.
You can't tell anybody about this.
I know. I know. But I'm saying, if they knew. We're going to be millionaires, man. Millionaires!
It'd make their heads explode.
Millionaires, man.
Look at it. LOOK AT IT! Shot to hell. It's been leaking gas since the fire fight. I told you to check for damage.
...I know.
And you missed this? How are you going to miss something like this?
I didn't miss it. I figured if you knew one of the reserves got hit you'd want to turn back.
What do we do with the Humvee?
We leave it.
SAY IT!
I got that...sir.
Hey...hey! Slow up. You don't have to go so fast.
Faster we get there, faster we get back.
Yeah. I know. I'm with you.
I'm gonna...I'm just gonna stop for a little water.
Don't drink up all of yours, 'cause you aren't getting any of ours.
I'm just going to have a little sip, that's all. Just a sip.
What!?
Mine.
What?
Mine. Land mine!
You didn't step on any mine.
I heard it click.
If you stepped on a mine you'd be dead by now. Nobody uses delayedfuse mines anymore.
I heard it.
Oh, God! Oh God!
Just be cool.
It's a mine, isn't it?
Just relax.
How'm I gonna relax standing on a mine!?
We're going to get off, all right. We'll get you off of there. Just...be cool.
Where you going?
Me and Wes are just going to talk.
Why you got to move away to talk!?
We're going to be right over here.
You're moving away because it's going to blow up, isn't it!? It's going to blow up!
I said be cool, all right? Now be cool!
There's a way.
Epps...
I said nobody dies. Nobody dies.
Epps, my leg is falling asleep.
My leg is falling asleep.
It's not falling asleep. You've only been standing there for three minutes.
I'm the one who can feel my leg, and it's falling asleep.
It falls asleep and you die, so wake it the hell up.
How's this going to work?
Me and Wes each going take an end of the rope, run our asses of, and yank you off the mine.
That's going to do it, right? I'm going to be okay.
You're going to be fine.
You're not going to let me die, are you!? Don't let me die!
When we start running suck up your breath. You're going to get the wind knocked out of you.
Don't let me die, Epps. I don't want to die.
You're going to blow yourselves up.
Wes is right. If there were any more mines we would have found them. Hell, that one you stepped on was probably old anyway; left over from the war with Iran.
You don't know that. It could be a trick.
If we step on a mine we'll know it was. Let me see the maps.
This. Whatever it is.
It's the treasure, that's what it is.
You're not losing trust, are you?
Just figure it's my map, I ought to hang on to it.
I didn't have to stop anything, 'cause nobody was going to do nothing. We're in this together, understand?
Yeah, I understand. Wes doesn't want to come along in the first place, but he gets a third of the find. That's a sweet deal.
I don't hear any
Shut up and listen!
Don't!
It's a fire fight.
Single shots doesn't mean a fire fight. That's not a battle going on.
Iraqis. A bunch of them.
What are they doing here?
Well, it's Iraq. I'm not sure, but I'm guessing that has something to do with them being here.
What are they doing in the middle of nowhere?
They're doing more than slapping.
The Shi'ites are on our side? I didn't know that.
Not enough. We're out numbered and out gunned. They'd cut us to shreds.
So good bye, Shi'ites. Thanks for playing. We have some lovely parting gifts for you as you go.
X marks the spot.
Something like that.
But the white dot in the middle; that's got to mean something.
I hope it means something, otherwise...
Where is it? Where'd it go?
Stay low.
Where the hell is it!?
Just stay down.
What are we going to do? What the hell are we going to do?
We're not going to do anything.
They're going to kill us!
They can't shoot us in here.
If they land
If they land, we can take them. If they don't land, then we've got nothing to worry about.
Think there might be more Iraqis?
Right now I wouldn't be surprised if Eartha Kitt showed up singing Send In The Clowns.
A whole lot of nothing.
So where do we start?
What are you doing?
What does it look like I'm doing?
It looks like you're not doing anything.
I'm not. And I'm not doing anything, because there's nothing down here.
Get up and dig.
We've been digging. We've been digging for hours. If there was anything here to find we would have found it.
Get up off your ass and dig!
Must be a compartment.
I feel air. Probably opens up outside somewhere. That's where the light comes from. Couldn't see it with the lanternon.
Maybe we should blast it loose with the claymore.
It's giving.
It's just a mongoose.
Is it dead?
Yeah, Bwana, you got it.
It's not like I figured. It's cold. And it's heavier than I imagined.
I wouldn't know. I never imagined this. Not in my whole life did I ever imagine this.
You don't have to imagine it. Not anymore. Now all you've got to think up is what it's going to buy you.
Wait.
What?
What?
We send the gold up what's to stop him from taking off and leaving us down here?
He's not going to leave us.
What's to stop him if he wanted to? All he has to do is cut the line...
Why do I have to stay down here?
Jesus, Jaeger.
I don't see how that plan's any better.
Someone's got to send the gold up. It can't get on the line by itself.
All right. You go up, I'll send up the gold, then follow.
Yeah. Yeah, that'll work.
What the hell took so long.
Just had to get the pack unhooked from the line. It didn't seem that long.
Not when you're up here with the gold, I guess not.
Wes might be right about that.
It stays as it is. We're halfway home now. Let's not blow it by people getting ideas.
We should head Northeast.
Northeast? That's away from the Hummer; further into Iraqi.
There's another pass on the photo. We can avoid that narrow one we had to cross on the way up, and it should get us back down.
It should, or it will? Least going back the way we came we know what we're up against.
You think you can make that pass weighted down when you almost fell the first time you're wrong, and you're not going to take my share of the gold with you trying it. We're heading Northeast.
What are we going to do? How are we going to find our way back!?
We'll find our way.
How!?
We'll find our way! We'll...
We got to go back. We got to go back for Wes.
Forget Wes.
We can't just leave him.
Wes is dead!
What if he's not?
Then he will be when those Iraqis get to him. He was going to kill you. He was one blink away from it. He's dead, Epps, and I'm sure as hell not getting my head blow off over his carcass.
No.
We need something: A flare, a signal mirror.
No.
What do you mean no? They can fly us home.
They'll ask questions; want to know why we were out here.
We'll lie.
They'll search the pack.
First Wes, now you?
I'm not like Wes. Wes was crazy.
And you; you've got it all together.
I don't want it this way. I wouldn't kill you just to kill you, but I can't let you lose the gold for me. Not when we're so close.
That helicopter passes, and the only thing we're close to is death.
I'm sorry about that, Epps.
Is it all right if I stand up?
I'm glad I didn't have to kill you. I'm glad it didn't come to that.
Yeah. Well, me too.
I never killed anybody before. I talk a good game, but I'm not like that.
Sure.
Really, I'm not. Remember how I was talking I wanted to blow away all those Iraqis? That's all it was was talk. I was scared out of my mind to go to war. I still haven't gotten over stepping on that land mine.
You still got a map on you?
What? Yeah.
Epps?
Yeah.
I don't want to die.
Makes two of us.
I know what I did just now was crazy, but you got to understand how much I want that gold.
It's all right. I don't like it, but it's over now.
I never had anything before, Epps. I never was anybody. Not the kind of somebody you can be with a pocket full of gold coins. When I was in high school I used to
Sorry.
Damn.
What do you think our chances are?
If we can find the Hummer, or some friendlies by sundown we might be okay. We've got enough water for that. But we won't make another day otherwise.
Wonder how the war's going?
It's got to be going better than this..
We can't just sit here. We've got to start moving, so pick.
You sure you want me too?
I pick that way.
Okay. Then we go this way.
Getting cold.
It's a desert. That's what deserts do at night; they get cold.
Epps...Epps! I'm gonna stop for a second.
No!
Just let me rest for a second.
We've got to keep moving while there's still light.
You know what I'm going to do? I'm just going to take a second. I want to look at the gold.
Don't you touch it.
I just want to look at it. Remind me of what I'm dying for.
The deal was no one touches it until we get out of here.
Yeah, but we made that deal while Wes was still alive. He's gone. Time for a new deal.
What do you figure it is?
Place all alone like that? Must be a boarder check point.
Which boarder? Saudi? Kuwait? Syria?
Couldn't be Syria. We couldn't have gone that far north. It's got to be Saudi. Come on.
We can head back for our lines, and they don't even have to know about the gold.
Epps. What if they're not Saudi.
Well?
Well, we should identify ourselves.
Yeah, I guess we should.
Even if they are Iraqis probably all they'll do is take us prisoner for awhile. Got to figure we're still kicking their asses in the war. They don't want any trouble.
Hell, they'll probably just surrender to us. Probably.
That's if the war is even still going on. Way things were shaping up it's probably long over.
Probably.
What did you say?
I don't know. Something Wes had taught me. I think it means "Don't shoot. We're your friends."
They must be Saudis. It's a Saudi checkpoint. Oh sweet, Jesus. Come on. Come on!
Oh, God...
They must have thought we were Iraqi when you yelled to them. They couldn't tell in the dark.
What are we going to do?
Slip out your M16.
And then what?
And then shoot them.
I...I never killed anyone before. I told you that.
Well, you're going to start with a bang, 'cause you've got four of them to take down.
Can't you
I don't have a weapon.
Don't go bitch on me now! You were going to kill me. Kill them!
I just said I would. I don't think I
Shoot them!
An Iraqi?
I don't know. He didn't have a uniform on. He...he had on white robes, like the guys who killed Wes.
What do we do?
We can't stay here. Even if that wasn't an Iraqi soldier it's only a matter of time before some show up. Get all the water you can carry, and we'll head out on foot.
To where?
Sun rises in the East. We go the opposite direction. May not find anything, but at least we'll know we're heading towards Saudi Arabia.
What do we do?
We keep going, that's what we do. We ignore them, maybe they ignore us.
What do you make of them?
Shi'ites, I think.
Is that good, or bad?
I don't know. They killed Wes.
Why haven't they killed us!?
I don't know!
...Maybe...maybe we can fight our way out.
With what? Against how many?
We can't just sit here waiting to die.
You come up with a better plan, let me know.
Maybe...maybe if we traded them the gold. If we gave it to them they might let us live; they might not kill us.
...Wes...?
You were shot. We were standing right there, you were shot!
I didn't say that. I never said
Me? I say you don't have enough brains to be stupid.
Can you ride a horse?
No, but I figure now's a real good time to start.
Which way do we go!?
We go this way.
Damn it. We lost the horses.
The...the gold...
It wasn't the gold. It was the claymore mine. The gold's in my pack.
When did you make the switch?
It's always been like that. When you left me down in the crevice to send the gold up I figured I'd better...take precautions. I rigged it to blow if anyone opened the pack. Just in case somebody thought they could do better on their own.
But...
We had a deal. No one touches the gold until we're out of here. No one breaks the deal, no one had anything to worry about.
What if it hadn't been Wes? What if...I mean, accidently, what if I had...
You shouldn't think about things like that. It'll just make you crazy.
Well?
A car's got to come along sooner or later. When it does, we jack it.
How do we do that?
You lie in the middle of the road, look like you're hurt. When the car stops I run over to the driver and put a gun to his head.
Why do I have to lie in the road?
Somebody has to.
Yeah, but why me? What if the car doesn't stop?
Then I'm a rich man.
Epps.
Yeah.
I want you to know... I don't know. I just think you're a hell of a guy.
Thanks.
This whole time, you've kept your head. You didn't go money simple like me and Wes. You've just been trying to figure how to get us out of here. And you've been fair too. I mean, even after I...you know...
Threatened to blow my brains out?
Yeah. Even after that. You didn't take it out on me, except for maybe making me lie in the middle of the road now. But I'd say you've been very fair. I just think it's a hell of a man who can keep from going money simple.
Don't make so much out of it. Only reason I haven't figured a way to get all that money for myself is because I've been too busy figuring ways to stay alive. Believe me; if I had a minute to catch my breath I might have played things the way you and Wes had. I'm no better than anybody else. I've just been busier.
Epps?
What?
I'm thinking about taking a trip.
Thought you were going to buy a car.
Still am. There's more gold than I thought, and since there's only two of us now... Where should I go?
I don't know.
I've never been anywhere. I wouldn't know where to go. Where would you go?
How the hell should I know?
Australia.
What?
I'd go to Australia. Lot of land, not many people. I think after this I'd like to quit people for awhile. And the girls go crazy for brothers down there.
Really?
That's what I hear. Don't matter. Girls go crazy everywhere for a man with gold.
Well, this is it. We get the car, find some Americans. We find Americans we'll be all right.
We'll make up some kind of lie. They won't find the gold.
Epps, I don't think he's slowing down.
He'll slow down.
He's not slowing.
He's going to slow down.
Think we're going to do it? Think we're going to war?
Not up to us. Up to the Iraqis. All they have to do is get out of Kuwait.
...And it's very important when you sit down never to point the soles of your shoes at anyone. It's considered offensive.
You know so much about the Middle East, you know where we can get something to eat.
Like learning Arabic? You're gonna learn Arabic you might as well learn were we can get something to eat around here.
I didn't learn Arabic because we were getting shipped here. You don't learn it in a couple of weeks. I studied it in high school.
Well, based on my knowledge of the region, its culture and her people I would have to say it's a box.
Can you eat it? If you can't eat it I really don't care what it is.
Paper.
It's a fortune box.
What's it say?
Help, I'm being held prisoner in a puzzle box factory.
It's a map, I think that's what it is.
There you go, Jaeger. Just find the buried treasure, and you're a millionaire.
A casual one.
Damn, this is sweet. We are going to be home in no time.
Better grab up some sand to take home to your family.
You're out of your minds, you know that? Both of you. You don't even know if there's anything out there. What the hell are you thinking?
I'm thinking about when this war is over. Why you figure I'm here? 'Cause I got tired of being president of GM? If a brother doesn't play ball, or deal drugs there aren't too many big money prospects around, and I'm not particularly interested in spending the rest of my life fighting the oil companies' wars. So I say if maybe there's something out there, what the hell, that's what I say.
Yeah! Welcome to beautiful Iraq. Land of enchantment and riches.
Oh, God.
What?
I know you think this is crazy, but a couple of hours from now you're going to be one rich dude trying to buy up every other puzzle box out there.
I'd settle for being alive. Really. Alive would be fine.
Why, yes, Jaeger. I believe it is.
No, please, not again.
What are we going to do!?
We're going to keep driving.
They stopped.
Wha...
Oh, Jesus, they've stopped.
They shouldn't have been here.
We shouldn't have been here, Epps. There is a war going on!
This is miles from the battle lines. They were probably deserters.
Deserters would have run, they wouldn't have engaged.
They shouldn't have been out this way, that's all I'm saying.
What are you doing.
Low on gas. Got to refill.
You two fighting's not going to get us anything.
Him getting us stranded out here doesn't do much good either.
Maybe we are crazy for doing this. But if we do it, we do it right. I just needed to explain that in a way I wouldn't have to do it again.
Not much chance of that. Jaeger's an idiot.
He's not so
He's an idiot, and he's not nearly as hard as he thinks.
How tough you have to be to make the army? All you've got to do is shoot a gun, and stop a bullet.
What kind of mine?
I don't know, and I wasn't about to mess with it.
Should have blown already. Delayed fuse, that's Vietnam stuff.
Maybe that's all the Iraqis could afford, okay? Maybe they got it on discount. Maybe the fuse is messed up. Or maybe it's going to go off in two seconds, and we won't have to worry about getting Jaeger down off there, all we'll have to worry about is finding the pieces.
We've got rope?
For climbing.
Break it out.
What if it's a Valloro 69? Just going to bounce right up out of the ground, explode in the air, kill him and us.
You just go when I say go.
Should have at least gotten the map off of him. Blows up with him then we did all this for nothing.
Ready?
Yeah.
All right. Let's get out of here.
The soldiers are going to kill those people!
There's nothing we can do.
We can fight. That's what we're here for: To fight the Iraqis. To help the Shi'ites, and the Khurds.
I don't want to see people killed any more than you. But we try to help out we die, and all we do is die.
We can't just go off and
There's nothing we can do. We shouldn't even be here in the first place.
All we've got to do is make it to the top.
And find the treasure, and get it, and get back to the Humvee, and get the hell out of Iraqi without getting our heads blown off, but that's about it.
We're not going to find anything standing here. Let's get to climbing.
Not much of a pass.
Probably was a couple of hundred years ago when whoever drew the map came through here. Worn down to nothing now.
Picks up again just on the other side.
The US Army: Always an adventure.
Let me see the map.
Should be easy going from here. Stay on the pass straight to the dot.
What do you figure it to be?
Got to be some kind of landmark; something distinctive.
Otherwise whatever we're looking for could be anywhere.
Basically. But the map has been pretty precise so far. I don't think it'll be too hard to
Where'd they go?
I don't know. There's a lot of space up here. They could be just about
Weird they didn't chase us.
And they can't fly around out there forever.
So we wait.
Missile!
Move!
All right. Let's break out some utility shovels, lanterns, and a claymore in case we have to do any blasting. Me and Jaeger'll climb down, and see what we can see.
What am I supposed to do?
Got to have someone here in case we need help making it back up. Doesn't hurt to have a look out either.
Epps!
I heard!
I don't think the line will take the weight of a man and the coins. Wes!? We'll send the gold up, then me and Jaeger'll climb back.
Ready when you are.
You ready?
All right. I'll go up, then you send up the gold and
It'll be too dark to make our way back now. Let's bed down for the night and head out at first light.
What about the gold?
What about it?
Maybe we should split it up now.
We started this together, and we're staying together, so there's no point in splitting things up now.
What if we get separated? Way I see it if something happens I want to be carrying my share.
You're the one with all the ideas.
You've had your say, Wes. Now leave it.
Maybe you've got ideas of your own for the gold. Maybe you've already got things worked out.
Maybe I do.
Maybe I don't need your ideas. Maybe I can do better on my own.
You got no reason to do that!
I told you: When I straighten someone out they stay straightened. This is how it works: Nobody touches the gold. Except when we're on the move and someone's carrying it, nobody so much as opens the pack to get an eyeful of it. Agreed?
You got no reason to hit me. I'm getting tired of you and Jaeger pushing me around.
Then get up and do something about it.
Get off him.
He snuck in here thinking we were asleep, only I wasn't sleeping. Would have slit our throats if I hadn't stopped him.
Get off him!
What happened?
I told you. He tried to steal our gold. He tried to kill us.
Stop it!
I told you; don't push me around.
Says they were deserters, they were afraid to fight, don't believe in Saddam anyway. They flew the gunship up here to hide out. When they saw us they figured we were going to kill them, so they shot first.
Why'd he come in our camp.
Says he wanted food. Liar. He wanted the gold.
How's he going to want the gold? He couldn't even know we had it.
He...he could have been watching us.
I don't care what he says, he wanted our gold. Would have slit our throats if he had the chance.
Doesn't matter. Whatever he wanted he didn't get it. We've got no need staying around here. It's light enough. Let's pack up and head out.
We can't just leave him. He'll run back to his outfit, report our position...
You said he was a deserter.
That's what he says. He could be a spy, or something.
You don't know that.
You don't know he isn't.
You're out of your mind.
He's an enemy soldier.
I'm not going to let you kill him.
We're at war.
We are not at war! You and I and Jaeger are AWOL. We have no authority
He tried to kill us. If not just now, then in the helicopter. That's all the authority I need.
I'm not going to leave him be just so he can stab us in the backs the minute we turn around. I have been through too much to lose it all now just because the two of you don't have the stomach to do what has to be done.
I've got no stomach for murder.
It's a combat action.
It's murder, and I won't be any part of it.
Then step aside.
No.
Get out of my way.
You've got an awful lot of orders in you. Always giving orders.
I out rank you, that's why.
In the service you do, but we're not particularly in the service right now. Way I see it, what we're doing, that doesn't particularly give you the right to toss orders around.
We been down this road. I told you how it is. Unless you feel like there's something you want to do about it...
What if I do?
No navicom. A lot of good you are now, Epps.
Lot of good you were when I was sinking in the sand.
Without that navicam looks to me like you forfeit the right to be in charge.
And let me guess who is.
I'm the one's got the big stick.
Suppose I don't go for that?
Then I suppose it'd be insurrection, and I suppose I'd have to kill you. I suppose.
What about Jaeger?
Nothing about him, unless he's got a problem about me dealing with you.
In the flack jacket. Still like getting hit in the back with a baseball bat. Took the air right out of me, but I was just unconscious for awhile. 'Course, you didn't stick around to find that out. You left me for dead.
We thought
Wes, we thought you were dead, and we thought we were next. Hanging around to get killed wouldn't have done anyone any good.
Sure, and I guess it was just convenient there was one less person to split the gold with.
Wes
Look, I know you guys are telling the truth. It's just the Shi'ites don't know that. I guess you could tell them...but then you don't speak the language do you?
Thanks for taking care of this for me.
Tell me something, Wes. Are you crazy, greedy, or just stupid? Jaeger says you're crazy.
You disappoint me, Epps. Always figured you to be a man; a real bright guy. I had respect for you.
That why you tried to put a bullet in my head in the middle of the desert.
That's just what things came to. Sometimes you can't help that. It doesn't change me respecting you. And now you let me down. I expected more from you, you know? I really did. I expected you to
They'll kill you. You won't make it ten feet before they cut you down.
You don't know John Epps very well, do you?
Just keep quiet.
I have to answer him.
So you can give us away?
If I don't answer, he'll know something's up.
Give it to me!
If I give it to you, will you let us go?
Looks like at the end of the day we finally find out who's better than who, don't we, Epps? Like I said; I expected more from you.
It's like I said; you don't really know lieutenant John Epps very well, do you?
You speak English? DO YOU SPEAK ENGLISH!?
Yyes.
Where were you going?
Baghdad.
What's in the other direction?
This road, it leads straight to Kuwait.
Turn the car around.
Please, I beg of you. The American army is there. I am Iraqi. They will kill me.
Nobody's going to hurt you.
I'm sorry... but...
Two weeks work gone for nothing.
I just wanted to tell you...
I don't care what you wanted to tell me. You're through! Get your things and get out!
Where are you going?
Home!
Home?
I'm fired.
Who fired you?
You did.
Well, congratulations.
I'm going to give her a wedding present. Thought I'd better do it now, before I forget it. I can drop them on my way to... That's funny.... Where are those bonds?
Bonds, sir?
I know I left them there.
Maybe Miss Wolf has them.
Maybe she has.
You're forgetting the check for your suitcase. It's at the Grand Central.
Oh, yes  yes  that's right 
Nick Charles here?
Yes. Nick!
You his wife?
Yes.
He's a good guy. He sent me up the river once. Hey, Nick!
Was he a good detective?
I wouldn't know. That time he caught me was a accident. I led with my right.
Come on out, now. He won't hurt you. Back to your old tricks, eh, Tanner?
No, Mr. Charles.
How did you get in here?
I had a key. I worked here... till they closed the shop.
You worked here?
Yes, sir. Julia Wolf got me a job as bookkeeper.
Well, that's a hot one. You a bookkeeper! When were you ever a bookkeeper?
That time you sent me up last ... I learned bookkeeping at Sing Sing. I figured it might be an in for me somewhere's.
Somewhere's where they might go out and leave the safe open?
Honest, Mr, Charles. I never touched that safe. Them bonds that were missing... Julia took them.
Trying to put it off on her?
Mr. Charles  she did  that's why he got sore at her and killed her. Listen, Mr. Charles  I did do a little chiseling. I come to bring it back and fix up the books. I didn't want him to find out and come after me 
You can save that and tell it to the police. They'll be here in a minute.
Police!
I'm sorry. Tanner, don't you want some wine?
No... no.
That's what Mr. Wynant said to me. If she remarried, all the money was to go to the children.
You shouldn't let that keep you from telling truth, Mimi. Mrs. Jorgensen  Were you ever divorced from Chris Jorgensen?
So it's you he was after!
Hello, baby.
He's dragged me into every gin mill on the block.
I had him out this morning.
I thought so. He even tried to drag me into the gentlemen's 
Oh, this is Andy 
You might have mentioned me first.
He's welltrained. He'll behave himself.
As long as there isn't a fire hydrant. What I've gone through 
Pretty girl.
If you like 'em like that.
You got types?
Only you, darling... lanky brunettes with wicked jaws.
Who is she?
I was hoping I wouldn't have to tell you. Dorothy is really my daughter. You see, it was Spring in Venice, and I was so young. I didn't know what I was doing. We were all like that on my father's side.
By the way, how is your father's side?
Much better, thanks.
How many drinks have you had?
Six Martinis.
Six Martinis. You're not going to have anything on me.
What hit me?
That last Martini.
I can't lie here. I've got to get up and trim that darned Christmas tree.
Take it easy.
Who's that?
Santa Claus.
Come on  relax  Give them a drink.
We need ice.
I'd better order some food. That sounds like an interesting case. Wouldn't you like to take it?
I haven't the time. I'm much too busy seeing that you don't lose any of the money I married you for.
Room service, please 
Sounds like a good case. Girl mysteriously murdered. No one knows who did it. They haven't found any clues yet  no gun  no fingerprints 
I wonder if they've  I don't want to hear anything about it.
Isn't that my drink?
What are you drinking?
Rye.
Where did you get that?
She brought it in. Trying to make me believe she did it.
What are you going to do with it?
Nothing, 'til I find out if it's the gun Julia Wolf was killed with. Keep her in here, and don't let those reporters see her. They might believe her.
She didn't tell me a thing.
Too bad you didn't bring your whip.
Nick! Nick! Are you asleep?
Yes.
Good. I want to talk to you.
That's jolly.
Don't you think you'd like to go back to detecting once in a while, just for the fun of it?
Can't you get to sleep?
No.
Maybe a drink would help you.
No thanks.
Maybe it would if I took it.
Everybody says you were a grand detective.
They were kidding you.
I'd like to see you work.
Tomorrow I'll buy you a whole lot of detective stories.
That poor girl is in a tough spot.
There's nothing I can do to help her.
She thinks you can. It wouldn't hurt you to find out if you could, would it?
Darling, my guess is that Wynant killed Julia and Dorothy knows it. And the police'll catch him without my help.
I think I would like that drink. I'll give you your Christmas present now if you'll give me mine.
At breakfast.
But it's Christmas now.
Breakfast.
What are you going to give me? I hope I don't like it.
You'll have to keep them anyway. The man at the Aquarium said that he wouldn't take them back.
Nick! Nick! There's someone to she you,
That's great. I was afraid I'd have to go to sleep.
You idiot! Asta! Stop that! Get down! Now, stay there.
All right... shoot! I mean... what's on your mind?
It's all right. It just grazed me.
Someone get a doctor.
There's one coming.
Well, quick  get into bed. Are you all right?
Sure  I don't even feel it.
I'll get some towels.
I'll be all right. Don't let's fuss till the doctor comes.
Want a drink?
Yeah.
I wish that doctor'd come. How do you feel?
He'll be here. Give him time to get his trousers on. Where's Asta? Asta! Asta!
You're a fine watch dog.
He's got more sense than you have. Thank Heaven you're not on this case.
On it! I'm in it ... They think I did it!
Well, didn't you?
I never saw that before.
No. It's a Christmas present.
Who gave it to you?
You did.
You must admit I have good taste.
Finished with these?
Yes. I know all they know about the murder. And I'm a great hero. The Tribune said I was shot twice.
I read you were shot five times in the tabloids.
That's not true. He never came near my tabloids. That's one thing I always protect... my tabloids.
Hello... send him up.
Who's that?
Macaulay.
Aren't you hot in that?
I'm stifling, but it's so pretty. The Kirbys.
Is that another Christmas present?
Yes.
Did I give it to you?
Yes.
Nick, listen. From Clyde Wynant! "Will you take charge of investigation on Julia Wolf murder. Communicate with Herbert Macaulay".
Let's see. Where's it from?
Philadelphia. Then he didn't do it, did he, Nick?
I don't know.
He wouldn't ask you to handle it if he were guilty.
Your guess is as good as mine.
Oh take it! Please take it!
Oh, it's a fire hydrant.
Yes. It's Asta's Christmas present.
Well, that's that. Stay there, Nick!
It's not going to hurt me to get up.
Sit down!
You talk as if I were Asta.
All right, hard guy. Get up and bleed on the rugs.
What's the trouble, Asta? Your balloon busted? So's mine.
What's the matter with you?
The mystery's all gone. And I wanted you to find out who did it.
Maybe I will.
But Wynant  ?
I don't believe he did it.
Why don't you?
No reason. Just a hunch. But I'm going to find out. I'm tired of being pushed around.
So am I.
Come on, Watson, we're going places.
This may be a little rough  you'd better let us go alone.
Catch me letting you go alone!
I wish they'd stop that. It makes me fidgety. Do you think they'll find him, Nick? He must be in New York.... Where do you think you're going?
I'm going to take Asta for a walk.
He's just been for a walk.
We're going sightseeing  aren't we, Asta?
What's that? What are you up to? Nickie  what is this?
Looks like a holdup!
What are you going to do?
I've got hunch. I'm going down to look at Wynant's shop, I want to find out why it's closed.
Why shouldn't be close it? He went away.
He went away lots of times when I knew him  but he never closed his shop. I've got a hunch something is up.
You mean, he might be hiding there?
I don't know... This thing has got my goat. I've got to find out.
Nick  I won't have you going down there.
Say you're the one who got me in this!
I know but this is different. He's a crazy man. He might kill you.
I'll be all right. I've got Asta to protect me.
Go on  go on  see if I care. But it's a dirty trick bringing me all the way to New York just to make me a widow.
You wouldn't be a widow long.
You bet I wouldn't.
Not with all your money!
You dog!
Goodbye, darling.
Nickie, take care of yourself won't you?
Sure I will.
Don't say it that way. Say it as if you meant it.
Why, I believe the little woman cares.
I don't care  I'm just used to you, that's all  If you let anything happen to him, you'll never wag that tail again!
Back to California
My soul, woman. I give you three murders and you aren't satisfied.
I want you to stay and find Wynant.
I did find him!
What do you mean?
He was down in the shop.
Nick!
It was his body that was buried there.
Nick, you'd better lay off that liquor.
That's a fact.
Wynant's body?
Yup. Don't you want something to eat?
But they all said it was Rosebreen's.
That's what they think... Guild and all of them. They take it for granted that it's just another of Wynant's victims. Guild's hotfooting it around now, looking for Wynant. That's all that troubles him.
What makes you so sure it's Wynant's body?
Several things. Hello, Fred. We're hungry again. Yeah, and lots of onions. Oh, and coffee.
Nick, you'll drive me crazy. What things?
Huh?
What things made you so sure?
Oh. Well, the clothes for instance. They were carefully preserved, and the body was just as carefully destroyed. The person who killed him counted on one thing... that all skeletons look alike.
Well, don't they?
Sure.
You don't get another swallow 'til you really open up.
I remembered that Wynant had some shrapnel in his shin. It often bothered him. So I looked for it and I found it. Gimme.
How long has he been dead?
Couple of months anyway.
Then he couldn't have committed those other murders.
Smart gal.
Wynant dead? Does Dorothy know?
No. Nobody but you.
I'm going to tell her.
Hey... hey. Don't do that.
But the poor kid's going crazy. She'd rather know her father was dead than that...
I can't help it. I can't tell a soul. I didn't even tell Guild.
Why not?
I want to lie low till I get the whole dope. I don't want to go off halfcocked.
What are you going to do?
I'm going to get the real murderer. I've got an idea. Want to see me take him?
Yes!
Got a nice evening dress?
Now Nick, what's that got to do with it?
Got a nice evening dress?
I've got a lulu  why?
I'm going to give a party, and invite all of the suspects.
The suspects! They won't come.
Oh, they'll come. I'll have Guild issue the invitations.
Who do you think did it?
Mimi...
Mimi!
Mimi, Jorgensen, Morelli, Tanner.....
You give such charming parties, Mr. Charles.
Thank you, Mrs. Charles.
I can't wait any longer. Tell me, do you think one of them did it?
Yes.
I wish you'd tell me who.
I wish you'd tell me.
Serve the nuts  I mean, serve the guests the nuts.
I'm afraid you're lying, Mimi. You see, I really did see Wynant last night.
You're going to drive me crazy!
Let's see... where was I? Oh, yes. He went to find the man. That man was desperate! He knew that he was caught dead to rights  and with prison staring him in the face, he took the only way out. He killed Wynant. It's terrible to tell you this way but your father's dead, Dorothy.
If that knife is missing, I'll look for it in your back.
After our hero had killed Wynant, he got a brilliant idea. He realized that he and Julia could still collect money. Wynant was supposed to be on a trip  no one knew where  so our dinner guest wrote letters to Macaulay, signing Wynant's name, so that Macaulay would continue to send the money to Julia. He even telephoned Macaulay  Do you remember?.... the first day that you came to see me... he telephoned that he was in town?
Is that true?
I don't know.
Why are you saying it?
It's the only way it makes sense.
I hope you're well.
His plan was still working beautifully. Wynant was established as being in town. The watch chain was handed over.... ...with a slight delay...to the police. The only hitch was a man named Nunheim who had found out something. Our hero paid Nunheim once to keep his mouth shut, and when Nunheim threatened him again, he bumped him off.
I gotta talk to you. I want you to tell me something and I want you to give it to me straight. Get me?
Do you mind putting that gun away? My wife doesn't care, but I'm in a delicate condition.
I've never heard about you.
I didn't knock Julia off.
All right  you didn't.
I haven't seen her in three months. We were all washed up.
Why tell me?
I wouldn't have any reason to hurt her. She was always on the up and up with me. But that dirty little Nunheim  he got sore cause I clicked with her and he didn't, so he put the finger on me.
That's all swell. Only you're peddling your fish in the wrong market. I've got nothing to do with it.
Listen. "Studsy" Burke told me you used to be O.K. That's why I'm here. Do they....
How is Studsy? I didn't know he was out of stir.
He's all right. He'd like to see you. But listen... What's the law doing to me? Do they think I did it, or is it just something else to pin on me?
I'd tell you if I knew. But I'm not in this. Ask the police.
That'd be very smart. That'd be the smartest thing I ever did. Me that a police captain's been in a hospital three weeks on account we had an argument. The boys would like to have me come in and ask questions. They'd like it right down to the end of their blackjacks. Now I come to you on the level. Studsy says you're on the level. Be on the level.
I am on the level. If I knew anything I'd....
What's that?
This is your party.
Morelli  You knew Julia. Was she gypping Wynant?
She don't say she is, but I figure she is 
Why do you say that?
Once I wanted five grand  Cash 
Thank you. Now I'll tell you why I know Wynant didn't commit those murders  Three months ago  the night that he caught you in Julia's apartment, he found out that Julia was cheating him, and was splitting with some man. He went to find the man. That man was.... Tanner, don't you...?
What am I? The fall guy?
I hope you won't let this news spoil your dinner. Nice food, isn't it?
Oh, Nick... Nick!
Hello, Mimi.
want to talk to you about something very important.
Clyde Wynant's crazy... absolutely crazy to stay away at a time like this. No wonder the police think he has something to do with it.
What do you think?
Oh, I know he didn't, but I wish I could find him... I have something very important to tell him. Macaulay won't help at all. He thinks I just want money.
Well, don't you?
You're always teasing.
Nick, you will help me find Clyde  won't you?
Now, Mimi, there are a thousand detectives in New York. Hire one of them.
But he knows you. All you have to do is get in touch with him, and tell him that Mimi says everything is all right... but that I've got to see him.
I tell you again, I don't want any part of it. Now you take Dorothy home and...
Dorothy! Is she here?
Yes...
Where's Gilbert?
Gilbert! Is he here too? We might as well be living in the lobby.
Chris may be at the club  or somewhere  I don't see that it's important 
You should have told them he'd disappeared.
But he has nothing to do with it!
That's not for you to decide. Everybody's under suspicion  especially running off like this  The police will want his description. Is this a picture of him?
I tell you  he didn't do it.
They'll want more than your word for that.
All right, then  I'll tell them who did do it!
This is all very pleasant but why are here?
I've got some very important news  I've seen Wynant.
You did... where?
Last night. He came to see me at my apartment.
Oh, did he? What did he say?
He didn't say very much. Wanted to know how I was and how the children were.
Because I don't believe that Clyde's dead! Why, you said yourself you saw him last night.
So I did. I saw him lying buried in his shop.
Perfectly absurd.
And the murderer is right here in this room tonight... he's sitting at this table. You may serve the fish.
Nobody told me. I did see him!
What did he pay you, Mimi, to stick to that story?
It isn't a story  it's true. I did see Wynant. He's not dead.
You're lying, Mimi. But then, you'd do anything for money. You're getting a good price for saying you saw Wynant and you figure you won't get anything if he's dead.
I'm lot going to stay here to be insulted 
Macaulay, you drew up Wynant's will. Mimi was cut off, wasn't she, if she remarried?
How are you?
Hello, Macaulay. Come in.
Dorothy told me you were here. I was going to telephone but....
That's all right. What are you drinking?
Nothing, thank you. Nothing. I wanted to see you... What's Mimi up to, Charles?
Mimi? ... Oh, Dorothy's mother. Does she have to be up to something?
She usually is. Trying one way or another to get money out of Wynant. I wanted to find out if you were er  er  sleuthing for her.
I haven't been a detective for four years.
You don't say 
My wife's father died and left her a lumber mill and a narrow guage railroad and a couple of other things. And I'm looking after them.
I see. I see.
What's all the fuss about? Is he in hiding?
You know as much about it as I do. I haven't seen him in three months.
No word at all?
He sends word through Julia Wolf when he wants money... I give it to her and she gives it to him.
My wife.
How do you do? What did you say?.... He is?.... Where is he? Very well. He's back in town.... Wynant. Thank heaven. He's waiting for me now. Forgive me, Mrs. Charles... but I've been so upset. It's no joke working for a man like that. I must be off. Goodbye.... Goodbye,
S'long.
How are you?
I hate to bother you when you're laid up.
That's all right.
What are the chances of getting you to do what he wants?
Slim.
It might.
He gave me a code message to insert in the Times, in case I wanted to get in touch with him.
It wouldn't hurt to put it in.
I've done that already. He should appear, you know. It doesn't look well... his staying away at a time like this.
Hello.... oh, just a minute. Police department?
Hello.... Where? In Allentown. Yes... When is the next train? Right  I'll get that. Wynant's tried to commit suicide. They want me to come down and identify him. I guess this changes the whole story, doesn't it? That looks like an admission of guilt. And I had such hopes. I thought if you got on the case, you'd be able to clear him. I thought that Mimi.... the way she acted... I was sure that.... Oh, well, well... it's no use thinking of it now. I'm sorry to have wasted so much of your time.
But it must have been Wynant. I should have known if it weren't his voice.
Oh he as clever about that. He called when you were out. That same afternoon, Julia telephoned to him. She said that you were coming, Mimi, to ask about Wynant. He got terrified. He was afraid that Julia would break down and tell... so he went to Julia and killed her and left Wynant's watch chain in her hand.
I have no right to answer that.
What about it, Tanner. Isn't that the truth?
Did you get my money?
I do wish you'd tell me where you're going.
I'm not telling anyone.
But suppose some business comes up...
That's just why I'm going.
One hundred... two hundred... three...
Never mind.
I wish you'd count them. There's a thousand dollars there.
I trust you.
Isn't there anything else I can do for you? Have you bought your ticket?
No.
Well, let me do that for you.
You might do that. Get me a ticket for... No, you don't!
Thanks, and goodbye.
What'll I do if something comes up?
Settle it yourself. What have I got a lawyer for?
Is Julia going with you?
No.
But what if you need more money?
I left instructions with Julia. She'll get it from you. Goodbye.
Is there a Mr. Macaulay in the house? Oh, it's you.
Yes?
Oh, hello. Come on in.
Good morning. I'm afraid this isn't a very "Merry Christmas" for you.
Oh, he's sitting up.
Good.
Asta  don't bother Mr. Macaulay.
That's all right.
I got word from Wynant this morning...
So did we. I mean, Sherlock here.
Oh, please, Nick.
Would it help any if I could persuade him to meet you?
We're just having a little drink.
So I see.
Who's that man?
He's not anybody. Just a fellow I used to know.
I thought you'd given up that sort of friend.
This is the first time I've seen him in years. I didn't want him to think I was highhatting him.
I don't like him.
Don't worry. You won't see him again. What happened? Did you change your mind about going?
No. I just came back for a second. I wanted to get those bonds.
What bonds?
The government bonds. The ones you took from the office safe.
Oh yes. Why, you told me to sell them a long time ago.
I'd never tell you to sell those. I bought them for my daughter.
Don't you remember....
Now see here, Julia. You're counting a little too much on my being absentminded. You've been taking a little here and there for some time, and I haven't said anything about it. But this is fifty thousand dollars!
Do you realize that you're accusing me of ....
No one else had the combination of that safe. You took them. What did you do with them?
What if I did take them? I'm sick and tired of seeing you hand out thousands of dollars to that family of yours....
That's my business.
supporting that gang of loafers! There's not one of them that cares a damn for you. A wife who threw you out the first time your foot slipped. They wouldn't raise a hand to help you. And I've given my whole life for you. If you kicked off tomorrow, where'd I be? Out in the gutter! Sure I took those bonds. Who has a better right  ?
I want that money right now, or I'll hand you over to the police.
Go ahead!
They'll be pretty rough with you....with your record.
That's a fine thing to throw up to me after all I've been to you....
Hello .... give me .... Well .... ?
I'll give it back to you .... all I've got ....twentyfive thousand...
You're going to return every cent of it!
I can't! I haven't got it!
What did you do with the rest?
I never had it.
Then someone was in with you. Who was it?  Who was it? I'll answer that  Hello ... hello ...
Don't mind what she says, Chris.
How can I help but mind? I'm constantly humiliated... just because I haven't money.
I'll get some.
You've said that for weeks.
I know.
Why don't you go to see Julia? She handles his money.
Chris!
All right. All right.
I couldn't go near that woman.
I said all right!
What are you going to do?
Just what I said I'd do.
You wouldn't do that... you wouldn't!
Wouldn't I. Just watch me.
Chris  Chris  !
and there she was lying dead. The police said she'd probably been killed about ten minutes before I got there.
I thought you said you weren't going there.
Why, you said...
Never mind.
Have a shot?
What's the idea of telling me you just knew the Wolfe girl by sight?
That's all I did, Lieutenant. That's the God's truth. Maybe I said hello to her or how are you or something like that when I saw her, but that's all I knew her. That's the truth. All right. Put your mouth in and I'll pop a tooth out of it.
She drives me nuts. She's been ragging me all day.
Maybe if you quit running around after other women you wouldn't have so much trouble with this one.
That's a lie, Lieutenant... Anybody that says that is a liar.
Want to take a poke at him?
I didn't mean you, Mister.
You'd done better to have told me that in the beginning. Where were you the afternoon she was knocked off?
You don't think I had anything to do with it?
Where were you?
Where were you?
Marian! Marian! Don't go! I'll behave! I'll do anything! Don't go, Marian!
Let me go! Let me bring her back. I can't get along without her. I'll bring her right back and I'll tell you anything you want to know. Let me go!
Sit down! We didn't come here to watch you and that broad dance around a May pole. Where were you the afternoon the girl was killed?
I can't remember offhand, Lieutenant. Maybe I was over at Charlie's shooting pool. Maybe I was here. She'd remember.
How'd you like to be thrown in the can on account of not remembering?
Just give me a minute.... I'll remember. I'm not stalling, Lieutenant. You know I always come clean with you. Gee, it'd serve me right if you had pinched me... that's the afternoon I was.... wait, I'll show you...!
Good morning 
Good morning, Lieutenant  Sorry.
But he's interested!
I don't mind telling you I'd rather have you working with us than against us.
Do you think that Wynant did it?
Looks like he planned, something. He shut up his apartment and his shop.
I think we may as well sit down.
I guess all the suspects are here.
Mr. Guild means guests! Oh, there are two more to come.
They'll be here. Don't worry. My men are picking them up.
You're a great help to a hostess. I wish I always had you for my dinner parties.
There are a few things we want to check up on.
I see.
You say you were in the room with the body from the time you discovered it 'til we came?
Why yes.
Did you see anything in Miss Wolfe's hand?
No.
Are you sure you didn't leave the room... that one of the bellhops or maids might not have been in there alone?
I don't think so. Of course I was terribly upset... I hardly knew what I was doing.
The Medical Examiner seems to think that the body was touched. He says it looks as if the girl's hand had been forced open after she was killed....
That's all right. Well, we'll be going.
Goodbye.
Goodbye.
You did!
That's nothing. I saw him myself.
What kind of clothes was he wearing?
A brown suit, brown shoes and a white shirt and a grayish tie with red, or reddish brown figures on it.
Tell 'em.
That's ridiculous.
Let him have his say out.
When was the last time you gave her money for Wynant?
Yesterday. I gave her a thousand dollars.
Seen any signs of it, Bill?
I said he hadn't written me.
Oh, then you did hear from him?
Well....
Well, what?
He telephoned me today.
He did!
I wasn't in. My secretary took the message. He left word for me to meet him at the Plaza.
When was that?
About three.
Did you go?
Yes. But he didn't show up.
I know he'll turn up as soon as he sees this in the papers. You can't think he had anything to do with it, Mr. Guild. He wasn't the kind of man that....
Do you know what they fought about that night he went away?
I didn't know they had a fight.
Well, thanks. We'll call you when we need you again.
How'd you people happen to pop in?
We hear this is getting to be sort of a meeting place for the Wynant family, so we figure we'll stick around in case the old man himself shows up. Then we seen him... ...sneak in and we decide to come up. And pretty lucky for you.
Yes. I might not have been shot.
We were looking for this bird.
I never saw him before.
What's he want of you?
Wanted to tell me he didn't kill Julia Wolf.
What's that to you?
Nothing.
What'd he think it was to you?
Ask him. I don't know.
I'm asking you.
Keep on asking.
Not without a warrant.
So you say  Go on, Bob.
Have you got a pistol permit?
No.
Ever heard of the Sullivan Act?
This gun yours?
No.
Who's is it?
I'll have to try to remember.
Okay. There's plenty of time. I guess we got to ask you a lot more questions than we counted on. We'll come up tomorrow when you're feeling better. Come on.
You oughtn't to play this trick on me. Running out when I was giving you time to rest up before I asked you those questions.
You mean about that gun?
That ain't a gun any more. The firing pin's busted  the  Don't waste time talking about that.
Man to man, Mr. Charles, are you working on this case?
Man to man, I'm not.
So would I.
It's a bargain then. Anything you want to know?
What about the suicide?
Oh, that's a phoney. The men didn't even have to go down.
I thought it might be. From now on, they're going to think that every thin man over six feet with white hair is Wynant.
You've been there?
Yeah. Couldn't find a thing. This is the way we figure it. Wynant goes to Julia's apartment. He finds Morelli there... sees she's two timing him. They have a fight. But he figures he don't want to do anything then.... Morelli might squeal. So he goes away. He don't let his lawyer know anything has happened... he lets him go ahead and and hand over money to Julia to give to him, so that Julia will think it's all blown over. Then, when she don't expect it... he lets her have it.
No proof?
Nothing yet to cinch it.
Fifty will get you a hundred that he didn't do it.
What do you mean?
For one thing, he was too absent minded to hold a grudge.
Who's your candidate?
I haven't got that far yet. But I don't think that everything points to Wynant. What about the alibis?
They're all O.K. Mrs. Jorgensen, the boy, Dorothy, Macaulay... even Morelli... we had to let him go.
What about Jorgensen?
I'll check on that. I'm afraid this is kinder dull for you.
What about this Nunheim?
Oh, he's all right. We know all about him. He does a little stooling for us every once in a while.
Did you know he was hanging around Julia?
No.
He's holding out on you.
Let's go and see. Taxi!
Well, what'd you think?
I think we're on the right track.
Who're you calling?
I'm calling your office so you can send out a man to trail him. I want to see where he goes.
Trail him! Trail who?
Nunheim!
Get anything?
She's ready to talk. It won't do any harm, though  to find out where he is.
I guess that cinches it, eh, Mr. Charles? He killed them both  Julia Wolf and Nunheim.
Fifty will still get you a hundred.
This is enough for me.
Just rolled them up and threw them in.
Lucky thing for us they weren't in that lime.
Extraordinarily lucky.
"D.W.R." That case you worked on... the guy who threatened to kill Wynant... what what was his name?
Rosebreen.
Could this be him?
I never saw him. I don't think anyone saw him.
He said Wynant tried to steal an invention.
Yes. But we figured it was just blackmail...
Just the same, Wynant wouldn't mind having him out of the way, would he? How long should you say this body'd been here, Doc?
What're you doing here?
I'll take care of him.
Are you kidding?
No.
Why didn't you tell me? .... Why didn't you hold him?
Because I found out for certain that he didn't commit the murders.
You mean that body?
was Wynant's.
Shut up.
You see, he'd been very clever. Everybody, even our astute friend Guild, thought that Wynant was alive and that he was the murderer. But our hero had just one weak link in his chain. The telegrams, wires and telephones were all very well  but no one had seen Wynant. So he picked on poor Mimi here to strengthen his case. Mimi is the only one at the table who can tell us who the real murderer is. Mimi, who was it that told you to say you'd seen Wynant?
What is it, Gilbert? Tell mother! What did he say?
He said that father's in town. He's been seeing Julia right along.
That woman!
She could tell you where father is.
Did they find any clues... a gun or fingerprints or anything?
Not a thing.
Was there much blood?
Did you kill her?
Gilbert!
Why not? You had a perfectly good motive.
I hope you won't talk that way to the police when they come here.
Well, I've got my alibi. I was at the Public Library. Where were you?
Children, will you go into the next room? I want to talk to Chris alone.
I saw him too... he was wearing a green suit with a white tie...
What are you talking about, Gilbert? You weren't there!
know. But I saw him 
You can take that out to the car.
Going to run him through the fluoroscope?
Yes.
Do you mind if I come down and see it?
Not at all.
I'm very interested in that body.
Shrapnel!
Must have been in the war. That might account for the cane and his limp.
Yes... yes.
It's been the same one for three months.
Forgive me. How are you?
Take a good look at him, Dad. Now please try to remember him... 'cause he's going to be your son inlaw.
He'll still be your soninlaw!
You see how much we have to say.
Dad, this is what I really wanted to ask you....
Mother's set her heart on a big church wedding.
Yes, she would.
I hate all that fuss. But I'll do it on one condition  that you're there to give me away.
What would your mother say to that?
This is my wedding.
Wouldn't it be a little embarrassing ... all of us there ... your other and me and your stepfather?
He can stay home. Please, Dad, won't you?
If you think it'll be all right.
Wait a minute. When is it going to be? I'm leaving town tonight.
Where are you going?
It's a secret. I can't even tell you, my dear. I've got an important idea to work on.
A new invention?
Yes. And I don't want anybody to steal it from me.
We were planning to be married right after Christmas.
Oh, I'll be back before Christmas.
It's a promise?
That's one thing I won't forget. Where's Macaulay? I ought to be starting.
How's your brother?
He's all right.
I'd like to see him. Why don't you bring him down?
You know how it is, Dad. He's sort of under Mother's thumb.
I know  I know 
You're not missing much. He's cuckoo.
Like all the rest of us. Has this fellow... ...has he seen the whole family?
And he still wants to marry me!
He's a brave man.
Poor Dad, does that still bother you?
Only in bad weather.
But it isn't bad weather now.
Better get home before it is.
Goodbye, darling. Don't you dare forget... December 30th.
Goodbye, my boy. Take care of Dorothy. Show her that there is such a thing as a happy marriage.
Another Martini 
Hello, there!
You know, we know each other.
Of course we do! We've been friends for years.
Aren't you Nick Charles?
Yes.
You don't remember me..... I'm Dorothy Wynant.
Not that scrawny little....?
Yes.
How did you ever remember me?
was fascinated with you.... a real live detective.... You used to tell me the most wonderful stories. Were they true?
Probably not.
Andy... this is Nick Charles. He worked on a case for father.
Yes. Some nut who wanted to kill him. How is your father?
That's what I was going to ask you. he's disappeared!
Disappeared!
I don't know anything  I've been in California for four years. What about his lawyer? Used to be a guy named Mac something.
Macaulay.
That's it... Herbert Macaulay.
tried him once 
Why don't you try him again?
Your father?
No. The lawyer  I'm going to see him.
How do you do? I'm sorry we have to rush.
We're at the Normandie for a couple of weeks. Why don't you drop around?
Thanks. We will. Goodbye.
I just wanted to relieve your mind. Your father's alive and all right.
Oh, thank heaven.
Come on in.
I've got to see you alone!
You heard about Julia Wolf?
Yes.
There.
What are you trying to tell me? That you did it?
Yes. I hated her for coming between my mother and father. She kept me from seeing my father. I went down there to ask her where he was. She wouldn't tell me, and I shot her.
Where did you hit her?
Why... in the heart.
Pretty good shot you are. What did she do?
She fell down.
Did she make any sound? Didn't scream?
I don't know.
Which way did she fall?
She... she fell over backwards.
Oh, yeah? People fall toward a shot, you know... not back from it. I knew you were lying.
Where did you get this gun?
I bought it in a pawn shop.
Don't lie to me.
That's the truth.
Hello, Dorothy.
Hello, Nick! And a party  celebrating father's third murder 
Dead?
He's been dead for three months.
How are you? Here. Get under this.
Thanks... we're taking your cab.
Is your father still in there?
He's waiting for you.
Did he tell you where he was going?
He wouldn't say.
Tchtchtch  Well, goodbye, Miss Wynant. You wouldn't drive slowly, so you don't get a tip.
He didn't do it  Nick!
What do you mean?
How are you?.... Oh, I'm Mrs. Jorgensen now.... No, she isn't here. Is it about her father? Well, can I take the message?
Give it to me.
Oh, here she is.
What is it? Has he found him?
Do you know where he's living? Oh.... Well, at least I'm glad he's all right. Thank you for calling. Goodbye.
What is it?
Nothing.
That isn't true. It was about your father. Where is he?
He's all right. Isn't that enough?
No.
You just want money  and you haven't any right to any more. He made a big settlement on you.
That's gone long ago. I've got to see him. Where is he?
I won't have you hounding him any more for money.
Mother .... you couldn't do that. You couldn't go to her.
I didn't say I would. But we've got to have money.
Did it ever occur to you that Chris might work?
Shush!
Don't. It's horrible.
Nonsense! She got at she deserved.
You took that money from Julia's hand.
I didn't.
Then what are you hiding?
It's a piece of evidence that's worth a great deal more than that.
You hand that over to the police.
I'll do nothing of the sort.
All right, then. I'll tell them.
I don't think you will. It's your father's.
I don't believe it! You're lying!
There!
Oh!
Now do you believe me!
Mother!
And I'll give then proof!
Oh, Andy.
Don't cry.
I can't help it. You don't know.....
Darling, you can't go through any more of this. Now you get together your clothes and your skates and we'll go out to my family's in the country.
I can't.
You've got to get your mind off this.
You're sweet, but the only thing that you can do for me is to go.
Go!
And don't ever try to see me again.
What are you talking about?
Please! You can't get mixed up in this.
Do you think I care
You don't understand. You don't know what's going to happen.
I only know I want to marry you... right now, and 
I can't marry you! I can't ever marry you!
Dorothy!
How would you like to have a couple of little murderers for your children? It'd be fun, wouldn't it? Maybe they'd murder each other... keep it all in the family. That's what Father should have done. He should have killed me and Gilbert... then we wouldn't have had this to go through.
You're talking like a crazy person,
Why not? I am crazy....the whole family's crazy.
Dorothy.... listen to me. I love you. Don't you understand that? I love you.
Go away!
This is a pretty dead bunch, isn't it?
You're high enough.
Why not?
Darling, don't cry. Please. I know it's terrible. But isn't it really better this way?
Oh, Andy, Andy!
How are you?
Another young man.
It's the same one.
Well!
That is, if it's all right with you.
And if it isn't?
Mind if I look around?
Help yourself. Oh, Tom, show this gentleman...
She's got me worrying, too.
Don't start worrying about him. He's a good guy, but screwy.
Why did that man want to kill him?
Said he stole his invention.
Do you suppose..... ?
What?
Nothing.
You better take a drink.
I didn't know you invented that Smelting Process.
Look  those are the first metals that came through.
All settled? Grand! Why did your mother ever divorce him? He's swell.
Welll, it seems he has a secretary.
Oh. I'll do my own typing!
Cheer up, darling.
I'm sorry.
What's the matter, darling ... not sweet enough?
It's all right.
Darling, your father's all right. He'll turn up in time.
But tonight is Christmas Eve!
He's just forgotten. You know he forgets everything.
He's never forgotten a promise to me. I'm worried about him. I know something's happened to him.
What could happen to him, darling? You mustn't worry.... What is it?
Just a minute...
Now don't say that  he's just off somewhere working.
I can't find him. I've tried everything. I thought you might know.
Any luck?
He's just around the corner.
There's a physiological as well as a psychological angle in my father's relationship with Julia Wolf that the police have overlooked. And I think it explains everything. You see, my father was a sexogenarian.
He was?
Yes. He admitted it.
Sexogerarian, eh? Yes. Yes. But I can't put that in the paper.
Why not?
You know how they are... sex...
Then just say he was sixty years old.
Is that what it means?
Of course.
Sorry. I don't know anything about it.
Come on, gimme a break.
I never tried to kid you reporters  I'm telling you the truth.
Have the police got any idea where Wynant is?
No.
What about this Rosebreen?
Sorry. Don't know a thing.
What's your next step, Nick?
Right back to California. We've got to go home and rest up from our vacation.
We'll see you before you go.
What is this? I got work to do.
Sit down and shut up, will ya. Try not to live up to all my expectations. We were told you know a hustle artist named Johnny Hooker.
Do ya know him or don't ya?
Yeh, but I don't know where he is.
Well we do. He's chummin' around with a Big C named Henry Gondorff. Ring any bells?
Sure. Every bunco man in the country knows Gondorff.
There's word he's gonna run a con on the North Side here. We got a yearold Florida warrant on him, but it's a thin beef, and he can beat it in court unless we catch him cold. All we want you to do is pick up Hooker for us.
Why don't you pick him up yourself?
Cause the stoolies are used to street dicks jumpin' him. If word gets around that Feds are in on it too, Gondorff'll fold up the whole thing.
Wouldn't that be too bad. You'd hafta move outa this nice office ya got.
Don't crack wise to me, flatfoot. I spent a lotta time in dumps like this, eatin' Gondorff's dust while the bunco squad gets rich tippin' him off. But it's not gonna happen this time. We're not even gonna let the police know we're here. If you keep your mouth shut and do a job, there'll be a promotion in it for ya. And you better take it, cause I can make ya work for us without it.
What the hell good is Hooker to ya?
He's gonna set up Gondorff for us.
He'll never do it.
I think he will.
We'll take it. You manage the building at the end of the alley?
For fifteen years.
I'll need a room over there that faces this way. How much a week?
Only rents by the month. Two hundred and fifty for the two of them.
This is the last time I expect to see you down here.
Never heard of the place.
All right, Riley. What the hell happened?
We missed him.
You weren't hired to miss him.
There wasn't any way he coulda known we was in there. We made a clean pick on the lock and didn't leave no footprints in the hall. Somebody musta wised him up.
Yeh, and what does Cole say about that?
I don't know. He took it hard.
All right, get outa here. You're outta work.
Can't do it. There're telegraph inspectors all over the place. I got 750 grand coming in from the coast, and I'm not gonna blow it for a lousy 14 gees. We'll get somebody else to do our betting.
I could come up with 750 grand in a day if I had a reason to.
But who says you will. I got a guy I can depend on. He's liquidating everything he has for this. You wouldn't even give Carver his money back.
I need more proof, that's all. Anybody can get lucky once.
On a 61 shot? The hell with ya. We'll keep the deal we got.
If it works again tomorrow, I'll have a half million in cash here by noon the next day. We split 6040.
We were getting 50 from our guy.
With 20% coming off the top for me laying your bet. Either way you end up with 40.
Yeh, and what if we play tomorrow and he doesn't come up with the money. We risk our whole operation for nothing. I'll say when we make our bets.
Not if you want me to keep makin' 'em for ya.
Take it easy. Everything's all right. I put it on Syphon, on the nose.
On the nose! I said place. Place it on Syphon. That horse is going to run second.
You want a drink or something?
No.
We want to talk to ya about Henry Gondorff.
Don't think I know him.
Well give yourself a couple seconds, crumb. You wouldn't wanna lie to me. Lt. Snyder here says you done a lotta griftin' in this town.
Lt. Snyder doesn't know shit.
You got nothin' on me.
We'll get it, and if we can't, we'll just make it up. Grand larceny, extortion. Counterfeiting, anything you want.
Look, I got nothin' against you, but you're in trouble here. All you gotta do is tell us when Gondorff's gonna play his chump. We come in at the sting, make the pinch, and you walk out free as a bird. No questions, no court appearance, nothing.
No.
You've already done time twice, and judges don't like three time losers. You wanna sit in the can for forty years, startin' tonight?
I'll make parole.
Like hell. You won't even get a review till you're seventy. And if the board starts to go soft, we'll let ya out in the yard some night with a hardnose young bull who'll put fifty slugs in your face and ask what you were doin' there later.
Will you wait until the chump is played?
Hell yes. We don't care about the mark. He deserves what he gets.
I mean completely played. Until he's beat and the score is taken. You come in before we beat him and I'll kill him. You'll have a tough time explaining that, won't ya.
All right, Hooker, but you take it on the lam, and we'll shoot you down on sight.
Just as long as I get to finish the play.
Your boss is quite a card player, Carver. How does he do it?
He cheats.
He'll have to take a check. I couldn't find my wallet.
Yeh, he knows that.
What do you mean?
He hired a dame to take it from ya.
You were set up, Lonnegan. Shaw's been planning to beat your game for months. He was just waiting for you to cheat him so he could clip ya.
I could have you put under this train for this, errand boy.
So could Shaw.
Then why the rat?
Cause I'm tired of bein' his nigger. I want you to help me break him.
What's the matter? You gotta get back to Shaw?
Naw, he picked up some jane in the bar. Can't see him till morning anyway.
All right, then.
Why me? Shaw probably has lotsa enemies to choose from.
I need somebody respectable...but not completely legit. What I'm gonna do isn't very legal.
I'm a banker, friend. That's legit in this state.
All you gotta do is place a bet for me at Shaw's place. I'll supply all the money and the information.
If you help me out, I'll pay ya back the money you owe Shaw, myself.
That's worth fifteen grand to ya?
Maybe a couple million.
You're dreamin', kid.
660 Marshall Street. Tomorrow at 12:30, if you're interested.
If I'm not there by quarter of, I'm not coming.
You should always look to the back too, kid.
I was afraid you weren't gonna come. We haven't got much time.
Get on with it then.
Sometime after 1:00 a guy's gonna call here and give you the name of a horse. All you do is take this two grand across the street to Shaw's place and bet it on that pony. There's nothin' to it, but don't take too much time. We only have 3 or 4 minutes after you get the call.
You're not gonna break him with a $2,000 bet.
This is just a test. The big one comes later. Be careful with that though, it's all I got.
And you were gonna pay me back?
I am after this race.
You really picked a winner, kid.
Give 'em a little time.
Well, what did I tell ya?
You're a lucky man, all right.
Lucky, hell. I could do it every day.
Why don't ya then.
'Cause it's better to do it all at once. We're puttin' down 400 grand next week. At 51 we make 2 million. Twenty per cent of that is yours if ya stick with us.
You got a system, Carver?
You stayin' in or not?
I'm in.
It's foolproof. We got a partner downtown runs the central office of the Western Union. Race results from all over the country come in there and go right across his desk on their way to the bookies. All he does in hold them up a couple minutes until he can call us and get a bet down on the winner. Then he releases the results to the bookies and we clean up on a race that's already been run. It can't miss, unless the Western Union Dicks get onto it.
You got the 400 grand yet?
Not yet, but... Hey, there's only a grand here.
I think we oughta place another bet tomorrow.
What is this? That's my money. You tryin' to muscle me?
If your system's as foolproof as you say, you'll get even more.
I gotta talk to me partner first. We can't afford to expose our game too much.
Let me talk to him.
No.
You want your money back? Try and get it in a court of law. C'mon, don't be a sorehead. I'll make it worth your while. Migth even help ya finance the big play if this one works out.
What happened to your face?
Had a little fight with a raggle down on 13th. She got me with her ring.
A week's a long time, friend. Anything can happen. All of it bad.
He's right, Les.
What happened?
I didn't get the bet down in time.
Oh, Jesus.
Tell your friend I'll have the money here by posttime tomorrow. We'll take the first race where the odds are 41 or better. And make sure I can get to that window this time.
How am I gonna do that?
I don't know, figure something out.
Hooker!
How ya doin', Jimmy.
Ain't seen you in months, boy. Thought maybe you took a fall.
Naw, just a little hard times, that's all. It's all over now.
You gonna have a go here? How 'bout a ten spot on the line here. The 49 been lookin' good today. Lotsa action on 28th Street down there, too. Pay ya 101.
You sure you wanna start off that big? Bet like that could put a real dent in us.
I feel lucky tonight.
Aw, come on, Hooker, why don't you just...
Three grand on the black, Jimmy.
You sure it'll be one of these two?
No. They're just the only ones we know of.
Twist? I told him the tale. He wants to see ya.
All right, when?
Tomorrow, after 4:00. Stay inside, I'll come in and get ya. And be hard on him for a while; he's talking money.
Okay, Tootsie.
Les, I got Mr. Lonnegan with me. He wants to see you a second.
What the hell's the matter with you. We coulda met at a club or somethin'.
I thought it might be good for him to see the setup.
Well we can't talk in here. They're having the place painted.
You done?
Yeh, I guess I shoulda had the meat loaf.
It isn't any better.
Where's June today?
She don't work here no more. I'm fillin' in for a couple days... till I can get a train outa here.
Where you goin'?
I don't know. Depends what train I get on.
Meat loaf, apple pie and a cup of coffee.
Sixtyfive.
What time you get off work here?
2:00 A.M.
You doin' anything tonight?
Yeh, sleepin'.
You got a back door to this place?
No. What's wrong with the front?
Look, I don't have time to fuck around. There's somebody out there I don't need to see. You got a fire escape or anything?
No.
All right, do me a favor. Go into the bathroom, open the window and wait for me there.
What the hell for?
Just do what I tell ya and everything'll be jake.
What does this guy want?
He'd like to kill me.
Looks like he missed ya.
Yeh, this time anyway.
I, ah...thought you might wanna come out for a while. Maybe have a drink or somethin'.
You move right along, don't ya.
I don't mean nothin' by it. I just don't know many regular girls, that's all.
And you expect me to come over, just like that.
If I expected somethin', I wouldn't be still standin' out here in the hall.
I don't even know you.
You know me. I'm just like you... It's two in the morning and I don't know nobody.
Excuse me, sir. Treasury Dept... I'd like to ask you a few questions.
What for? I haven't done anything.
We don't doubt that, but there's a counterfeiting operation passing bad money in the station. Have you made any purchases here today?
Yes, a ticket to Chicago.
Then I'm afraid we'll have to impound your money until we're sure that it's all good. Can I see your wallet and your ticket, please?
But I got a train to make.
It'll only take 20 minutes or so. You can pick it up at the window down the hall.
But what about all these other people?
We'll get 'em! Give us a chance. I'm not the only agent in here, ya know. We go around advertising ourselves, how many counterfeiters do you think we'd catch, huh? You think I'm wearin' this rag here 'cause I like it? Christ, everybody thinks life's a holiday or somethin' when you got a badge. I been here since three this morning, Charlie, and I never knew there was so much ugliness in people. You try to help 'em and they spit on you. I shoulda let ya go and gotten yourself arrested for passin' false notes.
I'm sorry, really I am, but my train leaves in ten minutes.
All right, I'll give ya a break. Down that hall there, there's an unmarked door on the left. Go on in there and wait at the window. I'll take this... ...in the back and run it through right away. We'll have you outta there in a couple minutes.
Thank you. You don't know how much I appreciate this.
Think nothin' of it.
Hi there, Snyder. Things a little slow down at the Bunco Department tonight, eh? Somebody lose the dominoes?
You scored blood money today, Hooker. You need a friend.
Aw, find yourself a shoplifter to roll.
I'll tell ya what you did, smart boy. You tied into a loaded mark on 47th across from Maxies. You and Coleman played the switch for him and blew him off to a cab on 49th. If he hadn't been a numbers runner for Doyle Lonnegan, it woulda been perfect.
You're crazy. I'm not stupid enough to play for rackets money.
Not intentionally maybe, but that don't make no difference to Lonnegan. He'll swat you like any fly.
I'll square it with the fixer.
Nobody can buy you a prayer, if I put the finger on ya.
My end was only one.
Then you'll have to come up with another grand somewhere.
She coulda killed me last night.
Too many people coulda seen ya go in her room. She was a professional. Used to work in the Dutch Schultz gang.
Who are you?
Gondorff asked me to look after ya.
How do I know you're tellin' the truth.
Don't have much choice, do ya?
Yeh, that'd be real nice of ya, Mr. Lonneman.
Lonnegan.
Raise 500.
See ya and raise three.
See and raise five.
Five and call.
Raise 300.
Pass.
Raise 1,000.
Raise 500.
See and raise 1,000.
Raise 5,000.
I guess I left it in my room.
What! Don't give me that crap you little weenie. How do I know you ain't gonna take a powder. You come to a game like this, you bring your money.
Never get enough, huh pal? I'd think you'd get tired of losin', Honnigan.
The name is Lonnegan.
Make sure you see cash from this guy, Eddie. He's got the name for bettin' money he don't have.
I can't lay that off in time. We lose a bet that big, it could break us.
If ya win it could make ya, too.
What are the odds on Syphon?
A half mill on an eight to one shot. You're dumber than I thought, Lonnegan.
You're more gutless than I thought.
Lonnegan's a fast egg, Henry. He's not gonna sit still for a standard play.
Everybody'll sit still for somethin'. What did ya find out about the train, Eddie?
I'm not sure I know it.
We'll give him the hook on the train, and play him here. You think I can get in that poker game, Eddie?
You in?
Yeh, I think so. I gave the kay ducer a Cnote. You find out the deck?
He usually plays with a Royal or a Cadenza. I got you one of each. He likes to cold deck low, 8's or 9's.
Nice work, J.J.
Look at that. He's got four apes with him.
That's what I like about these guys, J.J... They always got protection against things we'd never do to 'em.
How ya doin'?
Nothin' yet. I got a good one on the lead at Hialeah, but he's fadin'.
He's been taking the 8:10 Century Limited outa New York on Friday and getting in here early Saturday morning. He usually stays a day to check on his policy operations, and then flies back.
Wonder why he doesn't fly both ways.
The porters say he runs a braced card game in one of the cars. $100 minimum, straight poker. Last time he pulled in here ten grand heavier than he left New York.
Fancies himself a gambler, huh?
We'll use the wire. Never known a gambler who wouldn't like to beat the ponies.
The wire is ten years outa date.
That's why he won't know it.
All you gotta do is show up with some money and look like a fool.
I also gotta win.
He's gonna hit ya with 20 grand, Eddie. How much cash we got?
Not enough to cover a bet that big.
Get a couple extra guys in the line, then. We'll give him the shutout.
Looks like he's sulking.
If we're lucky, this'll bring him back stronger than ever.
What's the problem?
He wants to put a half million on Syphon.
Turn the goddamn thing off, will ya.
You sober?
I can talk, can't I?
Glad to meet ya, kid. You're a real horse's ass.
Yeh, Luther said you could teach me something. I already know how to drink.
I'm sorry about Luther. He was the best street worker I ever saw.
He had you down as a bigtimer. What happened?
Aw, I conned a Senator from Florida on a stocks deal. A real lopear. He thought he was gonna take over General Electric. Some Chantoozie woke him up, though, and he put the feds on me.
You mean you blew it.
Luther didn't tell me you had a big mouth.
He didn't tell me you was a fuck up, either. You played the Big Con since then.
No, I lammed it around for a while while things cooled off. Philly, Denver, Baltimore, nuthin' towns.
You gonna stay for breakfast, or do you already know how to eat?
I picked something up on the way.
Lonnegan after you, too?
I don't know. Haven't seen anybody.
You never do, kid.
Gondorff, you gonna teach me the Big Con or not?
You didn't act much like you wanted to learn it.
I wanna play for Lonnegan.
You know anything about him?
Yeh, he croaked Luther. What else do I gotta know.
Aw right, he runs the numbers outta the south side.
And a packing company, a chain of Savings and Loans and half the politicians in Chicago and New York. There ain't a fix in the world gonna cool him out if he blows on ya.
I'll take him anyway.
Why?
'Cause I don't know enough about killin' to kill him.
You can't do it alone, ya know. It takes a mob of guys like you and enough money to make 'em look good.
We'll get by without 'em.
This isn't like playin' winos on the street. You gotta do more than outrun the guy.
I never played for winos.
You gotta keep Lonnegan's con, even after you spent his money. And no matter how much you take from his, he'll get more.
You're sacred of 'em, aren't ya?
Right down to my socks, turkey. If I'da been half as scared a that lopear, I wouldn't a fallen asleep on 'em. Lonnegan might kill me, but at least he won't bore me to death.
Then you'll do it?
If I can find a mob that'll risk it. But no matter what happens, I don't want you comin' back to me halfway through and sayin' it's not enough... cause it's all you got.
He's not as tough as he'd like to think.
Neither are we.
He's waitin' for you in the card room.
Let him wait.
You just worry about your end, kid.
If we ever get to it.
How'd ya do?
Well we got some workin' money anyway.
Everything go all right?
Yeh, it was easy.
No signs of trouble?
What do ya mean?
You know, somebody tailin' ya. A torpedo or somethin'.
No, not a thing.
How 'bout Lonnegan?
I gave him the breakdown just like ya told me to.
And?
He threatened to kill me.
Hell, they don't do that and you know you're not gettin' through to 'em.
Then he drove me home. He tried to put himself away as legit, so I went right into the pitch.
Did he hold you up on anything?
You think he'll show?
Did he say he wouldn't?
No.
He'll show.
Why didn't you tell me about Snyder before?
I thought I'd lost him.
Well you found him again and we're gonna have to do somethin' about it. What else haven't ya been tellin' me?
Nothin'. I told ya everything there is.
Then why'd ya move outa your room?
It was too noisy.
You can't play your friends like marks, Hooker.
You know how easy it'd be for one of Lonnegan's guys to nail you?
All we need is a couple days, Henry. A couple days and we'll get Lonnegan down and stomp on 'em.
You just won't learn, will ya. Hell, you come in here, I teach you stuff maybe five guys in this world know, stuff most grifters couldn't do even if they knew it, and all you wanna do is run down a bullet. You're just like all them new jerks. Lotsa nerve and no brains. And ten years from now when me and the others are through and you dumb guys are all dead there won't be one gee left who knows the Big Con was anything more than a way to make a livin'.
A couple days; that's all I'm askin'. I can stay clear that long.
Christ, they'll probably miss you and hit me.
What's the matter, kid? You're not sayin' much.
Just a little nervous, that's all.
Luther always told me to bite my toenails when I get nervous. You see yourself doin' that and you realize it ain't worth it.
Take it easy, you won't lose him now. We had him 10 years ago when he decided to be somebody. Believe me, I've seen enough to know.
How many guys you conned in your life, Henry?
Two or three hundred I guess. Sometimes played two a day when I was in Shea's mob. We had it down to a business. 'Course Chicago was a right town then. The fix was in. The dicks took their end without a beef. All the Wall Street boys wanted to make investments for us. Even had marks looking us up, thinkin' they could beat the game. Yeh, kid, it really stunk. No sense in bein' a grifter if it's the same as bein' a citizen.
I better do some packin'. I'm gonna be a hot number again after tomorrow.
Then why you doin' it?
Seems worthwhile, doesn't it? Maybe it's just for the cavein on Lonnegan's face when we put in the sting.
Henry.
Yeh.
I appreciate your stickin' your neck out. I wouldn't have asked ya if it weren't for Luther.
Ain't nothin' gonna make up for Luther, kid. Revenge is for suckers. I been griftin' 30 years and never got any.
You beat him, kid.
You were right, Henry. It's not enough... But it's close.
You wanta wait for your share?
Naw, I'd just blow it.
Looks all right. It's big enough and off the street.
I don't know. This is kinda short notice. I'm not sure we can get it all done by Saturday.
Got to. Gondorff's ridin' the mark in from New York on the Century.
Been a while since I stocked a wire store. Not many mobs playing that anymore.
All we need is the bookie setup for now. We'll worry about the telegraph office later.
All right, I'll rent ya everything I got in the warehouse for two grand. That'll give ya phones, cages, blackboards and ticker gear. You supply the guys to move 'em. If you want a counter and bar, that's another grand. I don't know where the hell I'm gonna get 'em though.
C'mon, you can do better than that. We ain't no heel grifters.
You want the stuff tomorrow or don't ya? It's gonna take hours just to clean it up. Besides, Gondorff's still a hot item. Where am I gonna be if he gets hit?
Just give us what ya can, Benny. We'll send a truck down.
We bought ya a tap into Moe Anenberg's wire. He's got eyes at every track in the country. You'll get race results, odds, scratches, pole positions, everything; and just as fast as Western Union gets 'em.
Does J.J. know how to use this thing?
All he's gotta do is read.
Doyle, can I see you a minute?
I'm busy, Floyd.
It's important. We had a little trouble in Chicago today. One of our runners got hit for 12 grand.
Which one?
Mottola.
You sure he didn't just pocket it?
No, we checked his story with a tipster. He was cleaned by two grifters on 47th.
They workin' for anybody?
I don't know. Could be. We're runnin' that down now.
All right, mark Mottola up a little and put him on a bus. Nothin' fancy, just enough to keep him from coming back. Get some local people to take care of the other two. We gotta discourage this kinda thing.
We got word from Chicago. They got one of the grifters last night. The nigger.
What about the other one?
They're still looking for him.
Who's got the contract?
Combs gave it to Reilly and Cole.
Hackers.
They staked out the other guy's place last night, but he never showed. They figure maybe he skipped town. You wanna follow 'em up?
Name's Danny McCoy. No Neck McCoy we called him. Runs a few protection rackets for Carnello while he's waiting for something bigger to come along. Me and Danny been friends since we were six. Take a good look at that face, Floyd, cause if he ever finds out we let one lousy grifter beat us, you'll have to kill him and every other hood in Chicago who'd like to do the same thing. You understand what I'm sayin'?
Yes sir.
Good lad.
I've had it with that bum, Floyd. Stack me a cooler.
You've only been playin three hours, Doyle.
I don't care. Load me a deck. Set it up for threes and nines. I'll cut it in on his deal.
What do ya want the others to get?
Nothin'. They gotta be outa there early. I'm gonna bust that bastard in one play.
I know I give him four threes. We can't let him get away with that.
What am I supposed to do? Call him for cheating better than me?
Hey, Luther told me he was carrying a wad, but I didn't figure this much.
Which way did he do, Eirie?
Straight north. He was gonna take it all and run.
The bastard. He can blow his nose all the way.
How do you like that Coleman, huh? After three years.
Aw come on, it was the only thing to do. He knew he was holdin' ya back.
We were partners. If it weren't for Luther I'd still be hustlin' pinball down at Gianelli's. I don't need anything more than I got.
You ain't gonna have nothin' if you don't lay off them games of chance. There's a depression on ya know.
There's always a depression on.
If you saved a little, you wouldn't have to grift so much.
I like griftin'.
You could buy yourself some things. Clothes, or a nice car...
I don't look any good in clothes and I don't know how to drive. What else ya got to sell, Eirie?
Forget it.
I thought you blew all your money.
I did. That stuff I gave him was counterfeit. They'll pinch him the first place he tries to spend it.
What the hell you gonna do when Snyder rushes his finger right to Lonnegan? You're committin' suicide, kid.
Aw Christ, it doesn't make no difference now. If Snyder knows about it so does everybody else. He never gets anything first...Damn, there's no answer at Luther's.
Listen to me, Hooker. What ever you do, don't go back to your place tonight, don't go anyplace you usually go, ya hear me? Get outa town or somethin', but...
Buck Duff. I was in Maxwell's boost in Troy.
You the Duff that didn't come up with his end when Little Jeff was sent up?
Wasn't no problem a mine.
He was a con man, wasn't he?
He was a tearoff rat. He got what he deserved. No sense helpin' pay his bills.
Shove off, Duff.
Granger, this is Combs. Why haven't we heard from ya? Everybody else is in.
We had a few problems with the Law this morning. The Mayor promised the Jaycees to get tough on the rackets again, so he shut everybody down for a couple hours to make it look good. Nothing serious, it just put us a little behind for the day.
You been making your payoffs, haven't ya?
Hell yes. He does this every year. There's nothing to worry about.
Okay, finish your count and get it up here as soon as you can. I don't wanta be here all night.
Believe me, the Man's gonna be real happy. Looks like we cleared over ten grand this week.
We cleared 22 here.
Well, hell, you got the whole Chicago south side. How do ya expect the eight lousy spots I've got to compete with that?
They did 14 grand in Evanston, 16.5 is Gary, and 20 in Cicero. Looks like you're bringing up the rear, Granger.
I just got the count. We'll put the take on the 4:15.
We'll be waitin'.
We'll put Salino on it. I need somebody careful.
Salino? Why waste our best people on a smalltime job like this? It ain't no heavy gee we're after. The guy's a five and dime grifter.
Then why ain't he dead?
They didn't think he'd be so cagey, that's all. They'll get him next time.
Use Salino. It'll take a little longer, but there won't be any holes in it.
And tell Cole I wanta see him when he gets in.
He's not comin' in. Not to get bounced off a job anyway.
He had his chance and all he did was shoot up a rooming house. Made a lotte noise and woke up a few cops, but didn't hit nothin'.
You're late. Where you been?
I had some appointments.
How much did ya lose?
All of it.
In one goddamn night? What are ya sprayin' money around like that for? You coulda been nailed.
I checked the place out. There weren't no dicks in there.
You're a con man, and you blew it like a pimp. I didn't teach ya to be no pimp.
What's eatin' you? I've blown money before.
No class grifter woulda' done it, that's all.
You think my play is bad?
I think it's the best...
...It's the only reason I ain't quit before now.
What?
I'm gettin' too slow for this racket. I done the best I'm gonna do. You hang on too long, you start embarrassin' yourself.
What are you talkin' about? We just took off the biggest score we've ever had. We can do anything we want now.
It's nothin' compared to what you could be makin' on the Big Con. You're wastin' your time workin' street marks.
Hey look. You think I'm gonna run out on ya or somethin'? Just cause we hit it big. Luther, I owe you everything. If you hadn't taught me con, I wouldn't know nothin'.
Aw hell, you sound like some goddamn sucker. You know everything I know. You got nothin' more to learn from me.
But you played the Big Con. You said it was nothin'. A game for flakes and mama's boys.
And I'm tellin' ya now, you're a fool if you don't get into it. A bigger fool than I was. I been lookin' for this one all my life, Johnny. Now I got a chance to step out at the top.
What the hell you gonna do with yourself?
Aw, I got a brother down in K.C., runs a freight outlet. I can go halfsies with 'em! It ain't too exciting, but it's mostly legal.
Straighten up, kid. I wouldn't turn ya out if ya weren't ready. I got a guy named Henry Gondorff I want you to look up. There ain't a better insideman alive. He'll teach ya everything ya gotta know.
You'll take a cut of what I make, won't ya?
I'm out, Johnny.
If that's the way you want it.
That's the way I want it.
Twist! When did you get back in town?
Coupla days ago. I'm workin' a big one with Gondorff on the North Side.
Listen Duke, we're setting up a wire store. I need a twenty man boost right away.
I got twenty or so in here tonight. Take your pick.
These guys have gotta be the quill, Duky. We can't afford to rank the joint.
Get me the sheet, Jake. Let's see who's in town.
Twist, you know this guy?
No. Never saw him before. He's a dick, though.
Paltrow, Sterling, Furey, and the Big Alabama are in from New Orleans. Fiskin and the Boone Kid from Denver, and Phillips, Barnett and Limehouse Chappie from New York. Those and the guys outside should give ya 30 or so to choose from.
Good, have 'em down at Stenner's old Pool Hall before 3:00. We're gonna run through the route tonight.
Okay, Twist, but you know if this blows up, I can't do ya no good downtown. Gondorff is Federal.
Don't worry about it, pal.
The wallet. You gotta go after him. He's got all the money.
Don't worry, we got the wallet. What happened? He get ya with the knife?
Give it to me! Please. I gotta know it's all there!
You just sit tight, old man. We're gonna have to get you to a doctor. I'll call a cop.
No, no cops!
You wanted by the law or somethin'?
Naw, it's okay.
You're crazy carryin' that kinda money in this neighborhood. No wonder you got hit.
Thanks. I'm obliged to ya, but I gotta get goin'.
You ain't goin' nowhere on that leg.
I gotta! Look, I run some slots down in West Bend for a mob here. I got a little behind on my payoffs so they figure I been holdin' out on 'em. They gave me to 4:00 to come up with the cash. I don't get it there I'm dead.
It don't look good, gramps, it's ten of now.
I got a hundred bucks for you and your friend if you deliver the money for me.
I dunno. That little mug that got ya is mad enough at me already  what if he's out there waitin' around a corner with some friends.
He won't know you're carryin' it. C'mon, you gotta help me out.
Sorry, pal. I'll fix you up, call you a doc, but I ain't gonna walk into a bunch of knives for ya.
How bout you? I'll give you the whole hundred!
What makes you think you can trust him? He didn't do shit.
If that punk and his pals decide to search ya, you'll never fool 'em carryin' it there.
What do we do?
You got a bag or somethin?
No.
How 'bout a handkerchief?
Here.
Jesus, what a bundle. Did you know he was that loaded?
Hell no, I just cut into him. I woulda settled for pawning one of them shoes.
Visitation is still up by two at the threequarters. Single Action second, Fasanella third.
What's the line on Visitation?
7 to 2. That ain't bad.
He'll probably fall down.
Best we had was Cat's Eye in the second at Del Mar, and he was only 52. Not many longshots comin' in today.
Billie. You ready?
Yeh, go ahead.
At the finish, it's Single Action by two, Fasanella second, Visitation third. Line on Single Action... 3 to 2. Hell with it, that's no good.
You the owner here?
That's right.
Lieutenant Snyder. Bunco.
Joliet badge, Snyder. Don't cut much up here.
I'm lookin' for a guy on the lam from a counterfeiting rap. Thought he mighta come in here.
Don't think so. I know everybody in the place and I always bounce the lamsters.
All right if I look around your lobby?
No, but you're welcome to a free beer before you go.
Which way are the rooms?
Who told ya this guy was in here?
Nobody. I just know what kinda women he likes. I'm gonna check all the joyhouses till I find him.
Maybe I could help ya if ya told me his name.
I think I'll keep that to myself. Which way are the rooms?
Right through there. But I wouldn't go in there if I were you.
What are ya gonna do, call the cops?
I don't have to. You'll be bustin' in on the Chief of Police just up the hall.
What's in here then, lead?
It's my mother's piano.
A piano?
Oh no, it can't come now.
It must come.
She wants it to come.
Yes and so do I, but there are too few of us here to carry it. TOO  HEAVY
We can't leave the piano
Let us not discuss this further. I am very pleased....
Hello, then.
Hello.
What on?
On your piano, that is the swap.
What does she say?
She says it's her piano, and she won't have him touch it. He's an oaf, he can't read, he's ignorant.
He wants to improve himself... and you will be able to play on it ... Teach him to look after it.
I know why Mr. Baines can't play the piano.
You've missed this bit.
She never gives him a turn.
And when is the next lesson?
Tomorrow.
He's given it to us.
Hah, you're very cunning Ada, but I've seen through you, I'm not going to lose the land this way. Wait here!
Is it all right? Aren't you going to play something? ADA pulls up a chair and seats herself at the piano. She rubs her hands and places them lightly on the keys, she turns from habit over her left shoulder where STEWART waits crossed armed. Quickly she removes her hands, stands and gestures FLORA to play. FLORA proudly takes ~p the seat, she pulls her lips in trying to control her happiness to say in front of both her mother and STEWART.
What will I play?
Play a gig.
Do I know any gigs?
Play a song then
Mama.
Take this to Baines. Tell him if he ever tries to see her again I'll take off another and another and another!
Please take us to the beach where we landed.
I'm sorry, I can't do that. I don't have the time. Goodbye
You have to wash them.
They are washed.
Wash them again.
The marks do not come out. They are scars and hardened skin.
She wants to see what you can do.
I'd rather not play. I want to listen and learn that way.
Everyone has to practice.
I just want to listen.
He says you're not to see her or he'll chop her up!
What happened?
Quiet down! Shhh! Where is she?
He chopped it off
Jesus! I'll kill him! I'll kill him. What did she tell him?
What did she say?
She says, throw the piano overboard.
It's quite safe, they are managing...
What?
She says, throw it overboard. She doesn't want it. She says it's spoiled
I have the key here, look, I'll have it mended...
She looks tired.
She's stunted, that's one thing.
What's he say?
Someone died here. It's tapu.
But we came down this way didn't we? I'm sure we did.
They want more money. They are trying to make two days out of it?
No, no they know another track  to the side of this.
Those 80 acres, that cross the stream, what do you think of them?
On your property?
Yes
Good, flatish land with reliable water, why? I don't have money. What are you about?
I'd like to make a swap.
What for?
The piano.
The piano on the beach? Ada's piano?
You'd have to organise it up here.
Yes, I thought that.
Well Baines the music lover, I never would have known. Hidden talents George.
I'll have to get lessons. It wouldn't be much use without them.
Yes, I suppose you would.
Tw~elv~e.
Te, kawnarna paraikete mo te tahi hawlie 0 te whenna uci. UNSUBTITLED
Yes, why not.
Ada says you're doing well with the piano?
I'll have to come and hear you play. what do you play.
Nothing just yet
I don't think you should have given up the piano. I will make sure you are properly taught, with music written on to sheets and...
I don't want to learn.
You don't want to learn.
No.
And what does this do to our bargain? I cannot afford the piano if you mean me to pay.
No, no payment. I have given it back. I don't want it.
Well, I doubt I want it very much myself.
It was more to your wife that I gave it.
Well, thank you, I expect she will appreciate it.
Has Ada ever spoken to you?
You mean in signs?
No, words. You have never heard words?
No, not words.
She has spoken to me. I heard her voice. There was no sound, but I beard it here . Her voice was there in my head. I watched her lips, they did not make the words, yet the harder I listened the clearer I heard her, as clear as I hear you, as dear as I hear my own voice.
Spoken words?
No, but her words are in my head. I know what you think, that it's a trick, that I'm making it up. No, the words I heard, were her words.
What are they?
I got the good wife for you Peini. She pray good. Clean. Read Bible. You sleep her Peini. She chief daughter.
No, no bible readers.
Don't answer, he low born. Jun look at him, mongrel. Your wife where she?
She lives her own life in New Jersey, America.
You have spare wife here Peini. You get rnana for that. Our chief four wives.
Go Peini ... Haere atu e Peini.
I'll be back.
I worry for you.
No, I love her, we will be a family. I have her piano. I will mend it, she will get better.
I miss you.
My REAL father was a famous German composer
Ohh the tag is broken.
.... They met when my mother was an opera singer... in Luxemburg...
I thought she met your father in Luxemburg.
Well, yes, in Austria where be conducted the Royal Orchestra.
And where did they get married?
Which mountains are those dear?
The Alps.
Ohhh I've never been there.
Mother used to sing the songs in German and her voice would echo across the valleys
One day when my mother and father were singing together in the forest, a great storm blew up out of nowhere. But so passionate was their singing that they did not notice, nor did they stop as the rain began to fall and when their voices rose for the final bars of the duet a great bolt of lightening came out of the sky and struck my father so that he lit up like a torch... And at the same moment my father was struck dead my mother was struck dumb! She neverspokeanotherword.
Ohhh ... dear. Not another word From the shock, yes it would be.
Well, that is a strong opinion.
Yes, it's unholy.
What would you think if someone played a kitchen table like it were a piano?
Like it were a piano?
It's strange isn't it? I mean it's not a piano, it doesn't make any sound.
I knew she was mute, but now I'm thinking it's more than that. I'm wondering if she's not brain affected.
No sound at all?
No, it was a table.
Well, she was very violent with the gown. She tore off a chunk of lace. if hadn't been there I'd have sworn she'd used her teeth
Oh, yes, yes of course, a concern.
There is something to be said for silence
Oh indeed. Cotton'.
And with time she will, I'm sure, become affectionate.
Certainly, there is nothing so easy to like as a pet and they are quite silent.
How are the lessons going? ADA nods enthusiastically. He's getting on all right? ADA nods again Good.
That is good, yes.
He is quite altered, as if they had been trying some native witchcraft on him. Well tomorrow or the day after he will be gone.
Baines is packing up?
Well he has NOTHING to pack, but he is leaving. And it is just as well; Nessie has foolishly grown an affection for him ... we have had some tears
Watch your feet!
Watch your feet!
Careful! Watch his hand.
Watch his hand
Well you stopped combing your hair, which is a good thing, it was looking over done. You see these are the slits that the heads will go through, show him Nessie ... they'll be dead, the Reverend is going to use animal blood, no doubt it will be very dramatic. Tea!
It will be very dramatic.
I can't imagine a fate worse than being dumb. Turn around.
To be deaf?
Oh yes, dear too  TERRIBLE! AWFUL!"'
Ohhh, it's so dark, it's like a dank cave.
Yes, like a cave.
Ohh no, it makes my skin creep!
We have just come from George Banes' and they have taken him over. It is no wonder he is leaving, he has got in too deep with the natives. They sit on his floor as proud as Kings, but without a shred of manners.
... without a shred of manners.
What the hell are you doing?
I was... I was trying to open this tin.
Where do you live?
What's your work?
I am... I was a pianist.
A pianist.
Where are you hiding?
In the attic.
Show me.
What's all that gunfire?
The Russians. On the other side of the river. All you have to do is hang on for a few more weeks.
What's happening?
We're getting out.
Are the Russians here?
Not yet.
I don't know how to thank you.
Don't thank me. Thank God. It's His will that we should survive. Well. That's what we have to believe.
What about you?
I've got another one. Warmer. What will you do when it's all over?
I'll play the piano again. On Polish radio.
Tell me your name. I'll listen out for you.
Szpilman.
Szpilman. Good name for a pianist.
You don't remember me, Mr. Szpilman?
No, I don't think so?
Warsaw Radio. I was a technician. I saw you almost every day.
Sorry, I don't remember.
Doesn't matter. You've nothing to worry about. I'll visit often.
You don't want to worry about that. My grandfather was jilted by his girl friend when he got jaundice. In my opinion, jaundice is not very serious. Drink up.
Why didn't you come sooner? It's been over two weeks.
Thank God  Wladek! You're wounded.
It's a little cut, nothing.
I've been worried sick.
Pack, darling, get your things, pack.
Where are we going?
Out of Warsaw.
Out of Warsaw. Where?
And what do you think you'll do while you're setting up a new line of defence? Wander round lugging your suitcases?
Pack, Wladek, there's no time.
I'm not going anywhere.
No, no, no, I'm staying put. If I'm going to die, I prefer to die at home.
God forbid!
I'm sorry, I did my best, I thought the certificates would save us all.
Stop it, Wladek.
How long have you been here?
Since last night. I was pleased to see you.
They're going to start the final resettlement now. We know what it means. We sent someone out. Zygmunt. A good man. His orders were to follow the trains out of Warsaw. He got to Sokolow. A local railwayman told him the tracks are divided, one branch leading to Treblinka. He said every day freight trains carrying people from Warsaw forked to Treblinka and returned empty. No transports of food are ever seen on that line. And civilians are forbidden to approach the Treblinka station. They're exterminating us. Won't take them long. We're sixty thousand left. Out of half a million. Mostly young people. And this time we're going to fight. We're in good shape. We're organised. We're prepared.
If you need help...
Have a favour to ask. I want to get out of here.
It's easy to get out, it's how you survive on the other side that's hard.
I know. But last summer, I worked for a day in Zelazna Brama Square. I saw someone I knew. A singer. Her husband's an actor. They're old friends. I've written their names down. And their address. If they're still there. Janina Godlewska and Andrzej Bogucki. Good people. Majorek, you go into the town every day. Would you try and make contact? Ask them if they'd help me get out of here?
I tried your friends. They're not at that address any more. But.
You made contact?
Be ready to leave in two days' time. Same place as last night.
Puppydog, what d'you mean, you forgot?
What d'you think I mean, Kitten? I forgot, that's what I mean.
You know what? You treat me like dirt!
I treat you like dirt because you are dirt.
Pig!
Cow!
Pig!
Bitch!
Dirty pig!
You're a dirty pig!
Takes one to know one! Pig!
If I play like an angel, why don't you listen?
I was listening, Kitten.
Liar, you fell asleep. Pig!
Jurek? Wladek Szpilman.
Wladek! How are you?
Fine, we're fine, thank you, and you?
Fine, we're fine in the circumstances. But I can guess what you've called about. There's nothing we can do; they won't reopen the station
Yes, I know, but Jurek, Jurek...
...not even music, nothing, no radios for the Poles. But I'm sure you'll find work, Wladek, a pianist like you.
Maybe, maybe not, but, Jurek, don't be offended, I didn't call to discuss my future career.
Ah, here. Today's news from the other side.
You're amazing, Jehuda.
No, I'm a socialist. I have brothers everywhere. They bring me news and food. We care about our fellow human beings. Workers of the world unite.
So, what's the news?
The Germans are advancing on Kharkhov.
I don't know why I come here every evening, it's always such bad news.
Bad news, you crazy? You have no world view, Wladek, that's your trouble. The news couldn't be better. The moment Hitler invaded Russia, I knew we'd be all right. Remember Napoleon. Same business. The Germans will freeze to death, please God.
Jehuda, give me something to do.
You're an artist, Wladek, you keep people's spirits up. You do enough.
But I want to help, I want to.
You're too well known, Wladek. And you know what? You musicians don't make good conspirators. You're too...too musical.
There are notices going up. The city's to be cleansed of undesirables.
There are always notices going up.
Five hundred. You know how many people on average read one copy? Twenty. That makes ten thousand readers. These will start the uprising. Majorek hides them in his underpants. And leaves them in toilets.
Toilets?
I thought you'd be off on tour, playing London, Paris, New York?
Not this week.
I have to say you look terrible. What's the trouble?
You've heard the rumours they're going to resettle us in the East?
Rumours, rumours, you take it all too much to heart, Wladek.
I've been trying to get a certificate of employment for my father. I've managed to get certificates for me and the rest of the family but I need one more for my father. I've been trying all the firms, the shops...
Why didn't you come to me?
I didn't know you were in the certificate business.
I'm not, but Majorek is.
Can you help? I've no money...
Please, don't insult us. Can you do something for him?
No one thought they'd hold out so long.
should never have come out. I should've stayed there, fought with them.
Wladek, stop that. It's over now. Just be proud it happened. My God, did they put up a fight.
Yes, so did the Germans.
They're in shock. They didn't expect it. Nobody expected it. Jews fighting back? Who'd have thought?
Yes, but what good did it do?
What good? Wladek, I'm surprised at you. They died with dignity, that's what good it did. And you know something else? Now the Poles will rise. We're ready. We'll fight, too. You'll see.
They bombed us, we're off the air.
Warsaw's not the only radio station.
Mama, that was a great dinner.
It certainly was.
No, no. Listen, I've been thinking 
That makes a change.
You know what we do? We use psychology.
We use what?
We leave the money and the watch on the table. And we cover it like this. In full view. The Germans will search high and low, I promise you, they'll never notice it.
Of course they'll notice it. But look This is a good place for something.
A good place for what? He's insane!
Just shut up.
But...they won't get all of us... we'll...it's too small...there's four hundred thousand of us in Warsaw!
No. Three hundred and sixty thousand, so it'll be easy.
You sell anything?
Just one. Dostoevsky. The Idiot. Three zlotys.
That's better than yesterday.
Three lousy zlotys. And there are people here making millions.
I know.
You don't know, believe me. They bribe the guards. The guards turn a blind eye. They're bringing in cartloads, food, tobacco, liquor, French cosmetics, and the poor are dying all around them and they don't give a damn.
It's not funny.
Well, you know what's funny? You're funny with that ridiculous tie.
What are you talking about, my tie? What's my tie got to do with anything? I need the tie for my work.
You go to Heller, did I ask you to talk to him?
You're out, aren't you?
Did you beg, did you grovel to that piece of shit, that cockroach?
I didn't grovel, I asked him to help.
What did you pay him?
Pay him? With what? With what could I pay him? Every zloty I earn we spend on food!
I can look after myself!
They were taking you away.
It's nothing to do with you. It's me they wanted, not you. Why do you interfere in other people's business?
You're mad, that's your trouble, you're mad.
That's also my business.
What's the matter? Are you sick?
Hungry.
What's that mean, no employment certificate?
You have to have an employment certificate to work for one of the German firms in the ghetto, otherwise...
Otherwise what?
You'll be deported.
What are you reading?
'If you prick us, do we not bleed? If you tickle us, do we not laugh? If you poison us, do we not die? And if you wrong us, shall we not revenge?'
Very appropriate.
Yes, that's why I brought it.
And suppose they take the table away?
What d'you mean, take the table away?
The Germans go into Jewish homes and they just take what they want, furniture, valuables, anything.
Do they?
What's this about?
Sit down, have tea, I'll start lunch when the girls get back.
And, please, tonight, for once, I don't want anything bad talked about. Let's enjoy our meal.
Okay, then I'll tell you something funny. You know who I mean by Dr. Raszeja.
Henryk, I said nothing bad.
What's the matter with you all? Have you lost your sense of humour?
Boys, boys...
Your work, yes, playing the piano for all the parasites in the ghetto, they don't give a damn about people's sufferings, they don't even notice what's going on around them!
We're recruiting.
Who's recruiting?
Don't be clever with me, Henryk. I've come here as a friend. They're bringing Jews in from all over the country. Soon there'll be half a million people in the ghetto. We need more Jewish police...
Oh? More Jewish police? You mean you want me to wear a cap like yours, beat up Jews with my truncheon and catch the Gestapo spirit. I see!
Someone's got to do it, Henryk.
But why me? I thought you only recruited boys with rich fathers. Look at my father, look at us, I mean...
Yes, I'm looking at you and that's why I'm here. Your whole family can have a better life. You want to go on struggling for survival, selling books on the street?
Yes, please.
I'm doing you people a favour. And what about you, Wladek? You're a great pianist. And we've got an excellent police jazz band. They'd welcome you with open arms. Join us. You've got no work...
Henryk's in there.
I haven't seen him.
Believe me, they've picked him up.
Tough luck.
Can you help?
Oh, you need me now, yes, now you need me!
Can you help us?
It costs.
I've no money.
Then there's nothing I can do. He should've joined us when I gave him the chance..
Yitzchak, they told me you had influence.
Who told you?
People I know. They said you're an important man.
Have you seen this?
What, I'm working, what?
What's happened?
Oh my God, it's terrible, you've got to do something, oh my God!
Calm down, what, what is it?
They're hunting people on the streets. They've picked up Henryk.
Halina?
What?
Funny time to say this.
What?
wish I knew you better.
Thanks.
It's not going to be very comfortable.
I'll be fine.
You'll have to stay here until tomorrow afternoon.
Must feel better this side of the wall.
Yes, but sometimes I'm still not sure which side of the wall I'm on.
Here.
Get your things together, you have to leave!
What's happened?
I'm on the run!
What's happened?
The Gestapo found our weapons. They've arrested Janina and Andrzej. They're bound to find out about this place, too  you must get away at once.
Where do you want me to go? Look at me. No, no, I'm not leaving. Can't I take my chances here?
That's your decision. But when they storm the flat, throw yourself out of die window  don't let them get you alive. I have poison on me, they won't get me alive either!
What did I tell you?
What are you doing?
Will I still be able to play?
Let's find out.
Let me see this.
Doesn't it say we have to provide these armbands ourselves? Where will we get them?
To tell you the truth, I thought it would be worse.
How will we sleep?
For what? For my tie?
American Jews, and there's lots of them, what have they done for us? What do they think they're doing? People here are dying, haven't got a bite to eat. The Jewish bankers over there should be persuading America to declare war on Germany!
Hello.
I came specially to meet you today. I love your playing, but what a day to choose.
Who are you?
My name's Dorota, I'm Jurek's sister. oh! You're bleeding.
It's nothing.
I nagged Jurek for weeks and weeks. And at last he gave in and said, 'All right, come with me tomorrow,' and so I came and they bombed the station.
You know something? Meeting you like that was absolutely wonderful.
Really?
Yes! It was...it was unforgettable.
I've always loved your playing, Mr. Szpilman.
Wladek, please.
No one plays Chopin like you.
Oh, Mr Szpilman, you're quite... quite wonderful.
Wladek, please.
Dorota!
I didn't want to come, I didn't want to see all this, but I couldn't stop myself.
How are you doing?
Fine, no, not really, they arrested my cousin, but Jurek says they'll let him out. This is disgraceful.
Don't worry, it won't last long.
That's what I said, it's so  it's too absurd!
I'll see you...soon.
Wladyslaw Szpilman.
Dorota.
Come in! come in!
Sit.
I'm sorry  I was given this address. I'm looking for a Mr  a Mr Dzikiewicz.
Michal Dzikiewicz. He's my husband.
I need help.
He'll be back before curfew.
I've been in hiding. I need somewhere to stay.
He'll be here soon.
How long have you been married?
Just over a year.
And how's Yurek?
Dead.
When's your baby due?
Christmas. This is not a good time to have children. But then...
This is my husband. Wladyslaw Szpilman. Marek Gebczynski sent him.
Oh, yes. I remember.
I'm going to get a doctor.
You can't, it's too dangerous.
I'll get Dr Luczak, we can trust him.
Dorota, don't be ridiculous, he's a pediatrician.
He's still a doctor.
I'm sorry, Mr Wladek, he wants you to stop.
Who wants me to stop?
Why are you here, Mr. Wladek?
It's like this... I...we...all of them.
Someone you know?
Yes.
A beauty. Who is she?
A singer. Her husband's an actor. I knew them well. Good people. I'd like to talk to her.
Don't forget, Mr. Wladek, they hang them for helping Jews.
You know I'm always happy to see you, Jeanne, but to keep coming here twice, three times a day...
I need to confess.
But you already confessed this morning...
I need to confess again.
So... alright. What terrible sin have you committed since then that can't wait till tomorrow to be forgiven?
I saw a poor monk without shoes so I gave him some.
There's no sin in charity, Jeanne.
They weren't my shoes. Mine were too small.
Whose were they?
My father's.
I'm sure he'll forgive you.
He already did, but I want God to forgive me too.
Jeanne  if we were to ask forgiveness all the time, we'd spend our whole life in church.
Is that bad?
Well no, but... Jeanne, are you happy at home?
Oh yes... very.
And your mother  everything's fine with her?
Oh yes, she's... wonderful.
Good, good. And your sister... Catherine  she's still your best friend?
Oh yes, my sister's just... she's... wonderful.
And what about your other friends... you don't like playing with them?
Oh yes, I play with them... lots...
So... everything sounds... wonderful?
Yes, it is.
Then... why are you here so often?
I feel safe here. And it's where I can talk to him.
Him?
Well, I try and talk to him, but mostly he's the one who does the talking.
Who is this "he"?
He never says his name.
What... does he... look like?
Beautiful.
And what does he say to you?
He says... he says I must be good... and help everyone... and take care of myself. Do you think he's coming from the sky?
Perhaps... but wherever he comes from, I think you should listen to him, because it sounds like he's giving you very good advice.
I heard about your sister, and I... understand your pain...
Why did she have to die?
Only God knows the answer to that.
I know Jesus says to love our enemies but I can't  I just want the English to burn in hell for ever and ever!
I realize your anger, Jeanne, but we must learn to forgive. It's hard, but revenge will never bring about peace.
Then what will? And what will bring her back? And why did she have to die in the first place instead of me? Why didn't he take my life instead of hers? It was my fault  I was late  she gave me her hiding place...!!
Jeanne... calm down...! Calm down, Jeanne!
I don't want to wait for his call.
Jeanne, be patient.
I want to be with him always...
Soon you'll be able to take the Holy Mass, and as you eat of his flesh and drink of his blood, you will be at one with him.
I want to be at one with Him now.
Jeanne... what are you doing?
Playing...
What have you done to me?
I  I  I...
Who... who are you...?
I am that I am. You don't like my face? Maybe you prefer this one...
Who are you to even think you can know the difference between good and evil? Are you God?
No... no... I'm just a messenger... He needs me... a higher calling...
I don't know... I thought...
YOU THINK GOD ISN'T BIG ENOUGH TO DELIVER HIS OWN MESSAGES?
I don't know... please... tell me I'm dead...
WHO ARE YOU TO DECIDE IF YOU SHOULD LIVE OR DIE?
I... don't know... what do you want from me?
Nothing. I'm here to set you free...
What are you doing out here?
I might ask you the same question.
I... I'm leaving... I can't take anymore...
And what exactly is it that you can't take anymore of?
Everything! Prison  humiliation  being abandoned and betrayed by everyone  I can't stand it anymore  I'd rather die!
You'll be dead soon enough anyway, so why be in such a hurry? Why not face up to your lies? It's your lies you can't stand anymore...
I... I never lied!
If you were true to yourself... if your faith was firm, you wouldn't need to run away from yourself like this...
I am true  to my Lord, the King of Heaven. He knows how much I love him  that's all that matters to me...
How can you pretend that you love God when you're about to throw away the most precious thing he gave you? Life is a gift, you should know that by now Jeanne  a gift from God. You know what He'd say to you, if He was here? "What are you doing to me, Jeanne?"
That's too easy. One minute you want to die, the next you want to live... Do you think that life is a toy that can be played with and then broken when you don't want it anymore?
No, no... I'm just so tired, and lost, and... I didn't realize what I was doing!
Oh? And just because you realize now, everybody else should forgive you?!
I don't know  I don't care anymore  I just want to be at peace!
Oh, so you don't want war anymore? You want to be at peace? You want to be able to change your mind anytime you feel like it and expect everyone to go along with it?
I don't understand. What do you want from me?
I told you already... I'm here to set you free...
Why were you yelling like that?!
What are you doing here? Please... leave... you can't stay here...
Why? Are you waiting for someone else?
Yes!
Who?
My... visions...
They're going to come and visit you in here?
Yes... that's what I pray for...!
I want to see that. Do you mind if I stay... on the side? I won't bother you.
No, no  you can't stay or they won't come!
Why not?
Because... I have to be alone!
They won't come anyway.
What do you mean, they won't come?
Why would they?
Because! Because I've always been faithful to God, and I've followed everything he said... and I've done everything he asked me...
God asked you to do something?
Yes... lots of things!
You mean God said, "I need you, Jeanne?"
No, but... he sent me so many signs!
What signs?
Like... like the wind... and the clouds... and... the bells... and what about that sword lying in the field... that was a sign...!
No. That was a sword in a field.
But... it didn't just get there by itself.
True  every event has an infinite number of causes  but why pick one rather than another? There are many ways a sword might find itself in a field...
I'm not lying, I... I can't remember... leave me alone!
Oh? You can't remember? Let me help your memory...
No! I don't want to know anymore! Leave me alone! I didn't kill that man!
Oh no? How about this one?
Stop, stop... I can't remember! The battles were all so confusing... there was so much smoke, dust, noise... I was being attacked on all sides, so... maybe... perhaps I fought back but it was only to defend myself...
So your memory's coming back?
Yes... yes! And now you tell me why God let all these battles happen in the first place... if he's so powerful... he said he's "the creator of heaven and earth, the source of all life..." he could have easily stopped all this blood and misery? Why didn't he?
Is he the one who spread all this blood and misery?
No, but... why didn't he stop it? Or did he get pleasure, watching us killing each other in his name?
In His name??
Yes! We fought and killed in His name... the King of Heaven!
Really?
"Let all who love me follow me"... Where does God get mentioned? Come on Jeanne, be honest. You fought for yourself, in your name.
I... I was defending myself as best I could! Everyone has the right to defend themselves, don't they? Or should I have let myself be killed?
No, no, you did fine. I'd even say well done. Besides, most of the ones you killed probably deserved it, don't you think?
No, I do not think so. I don't think that killing each other will ever bring peace.
I agree...
I don't agree. Why do you have to keep changing your mind all the time?
Why are you doing this to me?? Do you get pleasure from hurting me?
Ah, pleasure... that's a difficult word to define. When does the pain end and the pleasure begin...? When did your pleasure begin with that sword in your hand...?
I never took pleasure in hurting anyone?
Really?
I  I cleaned up my room, look... and I said my prayers... all of them... and...
What are you doing on the wall?
I'm trying to make my cross look more beautiful...
What for?
Because... because I don't know what else to do to please him.
Do you think this cross will protect you?
No, I...
"Love your enemies"...
Good. But "love your enemies"... body and soul.
My voices... my voices... do you think they will ever come back?
I don't think so.
Are you going to leave me too?
Yes... of course... when you don't need me anymore.
Are you sent by God?
There's nothing for me to do here anymore... I don't belong here I want to be with Him now...
Do you think you are ready?
Yes I am.
Are you willing to follow all His commandments?
Yes...
... to love your enemy as much as you love yourself?
You know what you just signed, Jeanne? You just signed away my existence... For you I'm a lie, an illusion. You see? In the end, you were the one who abandoned me...
No...
You think you are ready now?
Yes, my lord.
Let's see.
When you were taken prisoner at Compiegne, did you have a horse?
Yes... a halfsteed... white.
Who gave you that horse?
My king.
How many did he give you?
Five steeds and a few hackneys...
As much as for a Lord? What an honor! Did your king give you other wealth apart from horses?
No.
What about all those dresses you were given... silk dresses weren't they?
Yes, I was given a few, but I never had time to wear them...
Still, pretty wealthy for a peasant girl wouldn't you say?
And you look pretty wealthy for a servant of God, wouldn't you say?
So who gave the order to bring me to this side of the river??
Hey, my friend! I'm glad to see your ugly damn face again!
La Hire, I'm warning you  don't swear!
Sorry Jeanne... Did you both meet already?
Jeanne, let me introduce the king's half brother, the dogged Lord Dunois.
Then, Lord Dunois, show me the way to the other side of the river...
Jesus Christ... the goddamn English will pay for this!
They will  and so will you if you go on swearing like that.
What happened? Who gave the order to attack?
God knows, but it was a bad idea!
Were the men confessed? Where are the priests?
I swear I'll never swear again in my life if you save her life! But I'm warning you, if you let her die, then you're the biggest...
Don't swear...
Physicians are a waste of time. You'll have more luck with this charm of mine... it saved my life at Agincourt!
I'd sooner die than use magic!
Prepare these as batteringrams!
What's the use? The drawbridge is up!
Not for long...
We... won?!
Won?! Such a small word will never do! This is victory, Jeanne, this is... glory!
You call this... glory...? All this... this blood... this smell of...
... the smell of victory, Jeanne! Mmmmmmm! I love it!
It's not possible...
Take mine instead  here  smash mine first!
Jeanne... get up... this is ridiculous...
If you kill him, you kill me!
Jeanne... the man hasn't been paid for six months  that's his only reward. Let him take a few teeth...
A few teeth... that's the price of his life?
Jeanne, if you don't mind... I'll stay standing... this armor... it's a nightmare to get back up...
I said, kneel!
You don't believe me anymore?
We still believe in you, Jeanne. If it were up to me, I'd chase every goddamn Englishman into the ocean. But it's not up to us anymore  it's up to the king...
Stop it! What are you doing?
Nothing... just taking his teeth.
But you can't just kill a man for his teeth!
Why not? He has good teeth...
Because... because you just can't!
Besides, what about these...?
That's different... I mean... we were fighting for a... for a cause!
Yeah...
Here  take this instead.
Tell us, Jeanne... why did you jump from the tower at Beaurevoir?
I had been sold to the English. I'd rather die than fall into their hands.
Did your voice tell you to jump?
No...
So when you jumped, you wanted to kill yourself?
No...!
How can you deny it when you just said "I'd rather die than fall into the hands of the English"...?
That's now what I meant...
Do you not know that suicide is a very grievous sin? No one is allowed to destroy the life that God created!
I know, but that's not the way things happened...
You mean it was not of your own free will that you were on the ledge?
Yes, but...
And you didn't jump of your free will?
No!
Oh? Perhaps someone pushed you then?
Who told you to wear men's clothes?
The clothes are not important...
You also cut your hair short like a man, and in the Bible it clearly states that it is an abomination for a woman to pretend to be a man! It proves your desire to deceive...
It was just... more convenient as I was among soldiers...
So you think you did well to cut your hair and dress as a man?
I... submit to Our Lord.
But will you also submit to the decision of the Church?
It seems to me that the Church and Our Lord are one and the same. Why must you complicate what is so simple?
And... what does Jeanne think?
I don't think. I leave that to God. I'm nothing in all this, I'm just the messenger.
We return to Orleans... across the bridge, at the Tourelles.
But the bridge has been pulled down!
The English are rebuilding it.
Clear?
Perfectly.
You look disappointed... Isn't this what you wanted?
No... not like this...
For weeks you've been asking for this... well now you have it!
Jeanne... let him do it. One more dead body's not going to make any difference, so who cares?
I care! And I care because God cares! All life is precious to God  even his  even yours and mine...
Bravo! What about all the other hundreds of prisoners? Do we let them go too?
Maybe... I don't know... but first we have to confess...
Jeanne... The men are exhausted!
I know, but so is the enemy  they're falling back  Paris is ours...!
Jeanne... we're not enough...
So... bring up the reinforcements!
Reinforcements? Where??
Right behind us  Dunois with another then thousand men!
Jeanne, look behind you.
Never look behind  only ahead!
Do you know how to count?
Of course I do? Bring them up!
Jeanne... that is not ten thousand reinforcements  that is one hundred very loyal but very tired soldiers.
But... where is Dunois... where are the men the king promised me?
He never sent them... Don't you understand? He doesn't want this war anymore... he has his crown now, that's all he ever wanted...
But my voices... they promised me...
To hell with your voices  it's time to face facts! We have nothing to do here... none of us... not even you. You should go home, Jeanne.
Brilliant idea... but to be really effective, why not send a whole army of virgins?
That'll put fire in my soldiers!
God... why of course  we'd forgotten about him! Strange, I don't seem to remember seeing him at Agincourt.
Damn right!
Oh, but I forgot! It was a Sunday... that explains it. God's day off.
I do love her when her fire gets well and truly stoked!
Me too...
There must be something we can do for her for Chrissakes!
Yes. We can pray.
Good idea...
This is no good!
No good? This is a disaster!
My lord Dunois... I have wonderful news!  finally  he's sending her to us  thanks be to God  we're saved  it's wonderful!
Calm yourself, Xaintrailles. Now slowly. Who has finally done what?
The Dauphin  he's sending us food  and supplies  and an army  led by Jeanne  the maiden from Lorraine  isn't it wonderful?!
Yes, it's a miracle.
And it's not the first one! They say she saved a little boy who was dying of...
Xaintrailles...! Don't talk to me about miracles... If I was still sitting there waiting for a miracle, I'd be dead now. Anyway...
But... don't you think we should at least... go and... welcome her?
As long as she brings food and supplies, she'll be welcome.
Were you sent by Lord Dunois?
Yes... they were.
Good. Where are the English?
Everywhere. Where is the food?
It's coming  I rode on ahead. I have to speak with the Captain of the English army... his name's Talbot...
I know...
Good. Can you bring me to him?
He's on the other side of the river.
Wait, wait...
For what?
Because... because  I mean  the English have a broad sense of humor, but... I mean, you don't understand... to them you're a witch, working for the devil. What makes you think they'll listen to you?
Because if they don't, I'll raise such a warcry against them that they will remember us forever!
Well. I'd love to see that, but after taking counsel with my captains, I felt it would be better to first bring the food into the city, then wait till Alencon arrives with reinforcements before doing anything.
You may have been with your counsel, but I've been with mine, and I'm telling you, God's counsel is wiser than yours, and he's telling me to speak to the English  now!
Fine  go now if you want, but not with me! You may have a duty to God but I have a duty to my people, and my people are starving! So right now I'm going to take the food back to the city, and if you can please calm down, and let me accompany you to Orleans, it will be my honor to welcome you.
So... what is the message?
We offer the English a last chance to return home in peace. If they refuse, we recross the river and attack them here  at the Tourelles.
Jeanne, that really makes no sense at all. The Tourelles is virtually impregnable... besides, if we're on the other side of the river attacking the Tourelles, what's to stop Talbot attacking the city from the north?
God.
You know, I feel a great sorrow for you, because you're laughing now, but by tomorrow night some of you will be dead and having to repeat your jokes in front of God.
Jeanne, with respect  we can't just attack the Tourelles like that  it's a very complicated matter and...
What complicated about it? All you have to do is do what you're told  what could be simpler than that? I'm the drum on which God is beating out his message  beating so loudly it's bursting my ears  but you're all so full of your own voices, you're deaf to His!
"Be patient, be patient"... is that the only advice you can ever come up with?? I've shown more patience than a dozen saints!
Jeanne, you have to understand  it's not easy for us  I mean for our pride  to suddenly be usurped by a  well, with all due respect, by a... girl.
Ah, so that's it. To you I'm just a girl.
Jeanne, put yourself in my shoes for a moment  how would you feel, if you were me?
Knowing what I know? Enormous gratitude.
Dunois... was it you who ordered the attack? Answer me?!
Can we  uh  discuss this later?
Sooner is better than later!
Position the longbows over there, crossbows over there  and set up Dijon Culverins either side of those trees...
The wind will be against us...
The wind will be with us! Do as I say.
What's going on?
We're taking back the Tourelles!
Jeanne, what are you doing with that... you've got it back to front...
I know what I'm doing, so either lend a hand or go back to bed!
Stand by with the batteringrams...
We need another ten minutes...
The bridge won't wait!
Well...? Shall we go?
Not yet.
The English won't wait.
5,000 gold crowns.
That's not a lot.
It is all his majesty can afford. He has even donated his very own personal savings. His majesty will greatly appreciate a gesture of good will in this delicate negotiation between our two families.
I know... but the English want her very badly, and I have to tell you that they are proving much more generous.
May I, without offending you, inquire how generous?
20,000 gold crowns.
8,000. We can't raise more... We can only place ourselves at the mercy of your generosity.
I must offer to the Duke. I will give you his answer tomorrow.
When you saw your king for the first time, was there an angel over his head?
If there was, I didn't see it...
Then why did your king believe in you without any proof?
Go and ask him yourself.
You told us about the appearance of this... voice. What exactly did you see? Part of it... or all of it?
His face.
Does he have hair?
Yes.
Is it long and hanging down?
I'm more interested in what he says, not what he looks like.
But if the devil were to take on the physical appearance of a saint or an angel... or a man... how would you recognize him? By what he said?
Go on to the next question.
That's enough! You will answer the question... or face the consequences!
She pretends she's been sent by God! These charlatans  it's a pity there isn't enough wood to burn them all!
She says she'll be here tomorrow...!
You mustn't see her, my lord. We know nothing about her... we don't even know if she is from Lorraine.
What difference does it make where she comes from?
If she comes from Burgundy it makes a difference. It might be a trap... Look... Signed "X". What sort of name is "X"? Or must we conclude that a messenger of God can't even write her own name?
Not exactly. She wants you to give her an army  at your expanse. Bearing in mind that your mother stole every last piece of gold in the treasury, I fail to see how you can afford such an adventure.
I can see her if I want to. I mean, with half of France in the hands of the English, what have I got to lose?
The other half.
Your majesty, I urge you not to see this woman. It all reeks of a Burgundian trap!
My astrologers assure me that the hour is pppropitious  Leo, with Virgo rising. Have you ever noticed on the astrological chart how the Virgin is next to the Lion?
Supposing she's an assassin?
Tremoille, I'm not even king yet... who'd want to assassinate me?
Your majesty, I really think you...
My dear loyal Tremoille, I know I can count on you...
... as always, majesty...
... to ensure our privacy. I need to talk to her. Alone.
My captains have sworn their support.
No doubt your captains will fight for your fine cause  but what about the ordinary soldier? They don't fight for causes these days. They fight for money. Who's going to pay them?
He's probably right  let's call a delay...
There's no time, sire  we can't hold up the ceremony... there's no telling when the English might come back... they're only ten leagues away...
Let them come! Let them see who's the true king of France!
I... I don't know... it'll sound like we... betrayed her...?
Noooo!
There's no need to be afraid, sire.
I'm... I'm not the king...
I know you're not yet  but you will be, soon.
What was my mission? To help my country? But how could I do that? I was only a poor girl who knew nothing about riding or making war... so I decided to wait and not to speak to anyone about it.
You did well...
I didn't wait long. One day I was going to Mass, like I do every day, when the same strange wind started blowing again...
... and what... what did he say?
He said that I have to save France from her enemies and give her back to God, and He told me that I  Jeanne  will lead you to the altar at Rheims to be crowned King of France.
I don't need lodgings if we're to be marching on Orleans...
Orleans has held out for six months. I don't suppose a few days will make much difference. Take some rest.
Ah, Jeanne... come here...! This whole coronation idea of yours is a fiasco... nothing is ready...
... You look wonderful...
... and my crown doesn't fit and... Really??
Get them out of here!
Now hold on  you're not captain here... on the battlefield perhaps, but not in the royal bedchamber!
Why did you betray me? Paris was ours for the taking! All I needed was another few hundred men... Why did you take back the army you gave me?
Gave you? Well now, I wouldn't quite put it like that...
So how would you put it?
Well... we are, of course, enormously grateful for your past efforts, but your task is done. Now it's time for negotiation... and after many months of skillful work, our dear Tremoille is about to seal a treaty with our Burgundian friends who will no longer lend their support to the English. You see, my dear Jeanne... as it is written in the Bible, "to everything there is a season: a time for war, and a time for peace"...
Peace will only be got from the English at the end of a lance!
Why do you have to be so bloodthirsty? Do you enjoy it? All that blood and noise and pain? Diplomacy is far more civilized... far safer... and far cheaper...
Your health and happiness has always been my first concern, Charles... ever since you were a little boy  and I think I know you better than your own mother...
You think?
Mmmm. Yes. I know for example the sickness that plagues your heart. I know how painful it is for you... to have loved a father... without ever knowing if he really was yours.
Wwwhat has that got to do with this Maiden?
Who better than a messenger from God to give answers to your questions?
You really think she's been sent... by God?
You're a fine judge of character, Charles. It'll take you less than five minutes to expose her if she's a fake. But if she's not  then she will give you your answers... and place the crown on your head.
You will??
For the sake of France, Charles. And for the sake of my grandson.
It's true. There's only one king... people need to be reminded of that. Nevertheless... Jeanne has done so much for us...
I assure you, Charles, the Maiden has no greater admirer than myself. But whatever our personal feelings, we cannot allow her to conduct her own private war. For the sake of the kingdom, it is imperative that you stop her going to Compiegne...
I... I can't stop her.
Don't worry, Charles. If God is still with her, she will be victorious. We're not her judges... we're just spectators. Let her go to Compiegne, as you let her go to Orleans, and let God decide her fate.
But... her army's so small now...
Then her faith will have to be bigger.
Good day, sir. I trust my honorable Duke of Burgundy is feeling well?
He's feeling wonderful.
Thanks be to God.
And your Duke? The Duke of Bedford?
Not so well, I regret to say. This business with the Maiden... it's caused him endless grief and torment. That's why he's entrusted me with the task of... shall we say...
Buying her?
This word is  regrettably appropriate for the situation. In fact what we  the Church  wish to do is determine whether or not this girl is sent by God, as she claims. You understand that we cannot allow just anybody to abuse God's name in this manner...
I understand. How much?
20,000?! But... I heard King Charles was... financially embarrassed.
Don't look at the cost, look at what it brings. What is your last offer?
Oh, thank you Lord! I'm so glad to see you! I need to confess... I haven't been confessed since Easter... or been to Mass... Will you hear me now?
I will hear you... but not now, not here.
Who are you?
Pierre Cauchon, Bishop of Beauvais. As you were captured in my diocese, the duty of conducting the trial falls upon me.
Trial? What trial??
Your trial, Jeanne. On a charge of heresy.
But... the King  my king  didn't he pay my ransom?
It seems that the English care more about you than the French.
The English??
Yes. They paid your ransom... tomorrow you will be transferred to their great castle at Rouen.
Take the Holy Gospels in your hand and swear to tell the whole truth concerning everything you will be asked.
I don't know what you're going to ask me questions about. You may ask things that I won't want to answer.
You will swear to tell the truth about whatever you are asked.
I will willingly swear to tell the truth about earthly things, but as for my revelations, I've never told anyone except my king... Charles the Seventh... the one and only king of France.
You must take the oath! Not even a king, would refuse to take an oath to tell the truth in a matter of faith.
I will willingly swear to tell you what I am allowed to tell you, but as to the rest, even if you threaten to cut off my head, I still won't tell you.
So... begin by telling us your name  assuming you're allowed to tell us that much?
My name is Jeanne. My little cross I had round my neck was taken away from me. I would like to have it back.
Show us a little more cooperation first. Where were you born?
In a village called Domremy.
How old are you?
Nineteen... or thereabouts...
Were you baptized?
Yes. In the church at Domremy.
Recite the Lord's Prayer.
Not unless you hear my confession.
Jeanne, listen to me very carefully. We are all men of faith, and we shall earnestly strive for the salvation of both your soul and body as though it were our own. We do so in the name of our Holy Mother Church, who never closes her arms to those who would return to her. But we cannot help you unless you submit to our learned judgment and authority. Take heed of this charitable admonition, for if you persist in refusing our help, then we shall have no choice but to abandon you to the secular powers, and I think you know well enough the punishment that would await you. So now... will you please recite Our Lord's Prayer?
Not unless you hear my confession.
Jeanne  be careful  you're not helping yourself by refusing to submit to our judgment...
And you be careful, you who claim to be my judges, for you too will be judged one day...!
Jeanne, you are not helping yourself. If you don't answer our questions properly, your refusal will be taken into account.
These questions have nothing to do with your trial.
I assure you they do. So... answer me... when was the last time you heard this voice?
Not long ago...
When exactly? A day, a week  when?
Last night.
What were you doing when the voice came?
Praying.
The voice was in your cell?
Yes.
What did it tell you?
Many things...
Did it give you advice? Good advice?
Tell us, Jeanne... do you often hear this voice?
Yes...
Is it here? Now? In this room?
Let me clarify things for you, Jeanne. On the one hand there is the Church Triumphant, that is to say God, his saints, and the souls that are saved. And then there is the Church Militant, that is to say our Holy Father the Pope, the cardinals, the prelates of the Church, the clergy, and all good Catholic Christians. Moreover this Church, when assembled, is guided by the Holy Spirit and therefore cannot be in error. That is why we ask you to submit to the Church Militant... that is to say, us.
So it is the Church Militant that refuses to confess me, and so prevents me from being a good Christian?
It is for us to determine whether you are a good Christian, not you.
I am sent by God, and I submit all my words and deeds to His judgment. Or do you think that you are better judges than He is?
Jeanne, I beg of you... sign! In God's name, don't you understand? I'm trying to save you! If you don't sign, the English will burn you to death! Is that what you want??
No... I want to be confessed.
Sign this, and I will confess you myself if you want.
And may I go to Mass?
As often as you like  now, please  for the love of God  sign!!
Please... may I have it back...
You have nothing to regret...
I didn't mean it! I didn't know what I was signing! You tricked me...!
Silence her! Take her away...!
I don't understand, Jeanne... why did you do it? Why?
And you? Why did you lie? You promised I could be confessed...
I know, Jeanne... it was the only way to save you from the fire!
It's not my body I want to save. It's my soul.
I ask only one thing... to hear me in confession...
I  I can't Jeanne... I can't hear your confession... I'm sorry...
Are you alright? Did they hurt you?
No no, I'm fine, really...
I was so worried  we've all been looking for you! The English are everywhere! O thank you, lord!
Really?
I was talking to the priest, and do you know what he said to me?
Quick  hide in here...
What about you?
Don't worry about me  just stay in here... and don't move!
But where are you going to be?
I'll be right here... I promise.
So... here is the famous Jeanne... Savior of Orleans... terror of the English? You look pretty ordinary to me...
Am I... am I dead?
Dead you're worthless, darling.
Where... where am I?
Guess.
My king will pay any ransom you ask.
Your king? Ah yes, of course... What's he going to pay me with? Cows? Chickens? I prefer gold, and the English have plenty. I wonder how much they'll pay... to have the Witch of Orleans in their clutches? Those English are so arrogant, they can't accept the idea of being defeated by a peasant girl... it has to have been the devil's work.
God defeated the English, not me.
And God who allowed you to be caught?
Arrest them!
What are you doing? This is an ecclesiastical court  you have no right to do this!
Rouen is in English territory. I have the right to do anything I like. Take them away.
Who's running this trial, you or her? I can't believe it! This wretched girl  how dare she speak to us like that?
She's loyal to her king... it's only to be expected that she...
I understand your impatience, but if you want this trial to be acknowledged as legal we must follow correct procedure and...
To hell with procedure! We paid a bloody fortune for this slut, and we can do whatever the hell we like with her, whether the church likes it or not  is that clear?
But if this trial seems fixed, I fear you'll have the very opposite result to the one you want...
We want her burned as a witch!
But in order to do so, the church must first prove her heresy, or else you'll be burning a martyr...
Well then? Start proving... or else the church will have another martyr!
Calm down, my lord, I beg you!
How can I calm down when I'm made the laughingstock of the whole court?! I've had enough!
Be patient, my lord... you've seen how it is. This girl has a way with people... but everyday we're making progress...
So long as this bitch remains alive, our armies refuse to fight! Don't you understand? They want proof that God is on their side... and the only way they're going to believe that is when they see her being burnt as a witch!
It is not for us to burn her, my lord. That is your prerogative.
... and your prerogative is to find her guilty...
But we can't do that unless she admits to blasphemy...
Well what are you waiting for? You've got a castle full of racks and ropes and pulleys: go and torture the bitch!
You won't be able to drag anything from her that way. You also must realize that many of my colleagues are... well, scared...
Scared of a girl?
Scared to make a mistake. Supposing she's right... supposing she really has been sent by God??
Whose side are you on, Cauchon?
I'm on the side of our Mother Holy Church. Besides, a confession under torture will never convince anyone of her guilt.
Well find some other way! Be creative. Tell them she fucks the devil... Hmm, not a bad idea... why can't you say that? Sounds good to me... and who can prove she doesn't?
It is the sacred place that matters, Charles  not the size. Am I correct, Bishop?
Oh yes, my lady. All true kings of France must first be anointed in our great cathedral of Rheims... with the holy oil of Clovis... for it was within these very walls that Saint Remy received the sacred oil from Heaven, brought to him by a white dove for the anointing of King Clovis...
I don't understand... the holy oil of Clovis... it was quite full the last time I saw it...
And when was that?
Well... at the coronation of King Charles VI...
Thirty years ago? I'm not surprised it's gone...
No no, you don't understand  this is no ordinary oil  this is miraculous... this oil was brought from heaven by a white dove to crown King Clovis in this... very... cathedral...
Wwwhat are you doing?!
Performing a miracle.
I won't tell you more about that. I'm more afraid of displeasing Him than not answering you...
You're afraid of displeasing God when telling the truth?!
No...
Did God forbid you to tell the truth?
No. But my revelations were for the King of France, not for you.
Go onto the next question.
Good advice for the French, not for the English! Do you think God hates the English?
I don't know, but you're all men of the church... why not ask Him yourself?
Is it true that you launched an attack on Paris?
I tried to.
It was on a Sunday, wasn't it?
I don't remember. Maybe.
Do you think is was a good idea to launch an attack on a holy day?
I don't know...
And didn't you order the citizens of Paris to surrender the city in the name of the King of Heaven?
No... I said "Surrender in the name of the King of France"...
That is not what is written in the evidence... look for yourself!
I can't read.
Ah, yes, I forgot... God sent us an illiterate peasant to carry out such an important mission! Do you think that God made the right decision, to take an ignorant girl to save the kingdom of France?
I leave the answer to God.
Do you have a sword?
Quite a few.
Didn't you also carry a banner?
Yes...
Which did you prefer, your banner or your sword?
I was forty times more fond of my banner than my sword.
And why was that? Did it have some particular value or power?
No, it's just... a sword is a weapon.
And?
And so I... I prefer my banner.
Why?
To avoid killing anyone.
Are you saying that if you had not been carrying your banner you'd have killed more people?
No, of course not... I never killed anyone...
Then perhaps the temptation to kill would have been stronger... too strong perhaps...?
No! I warned the English to go back home  I begged them not to force us to fight  they knew the defeat I would bring on them... why didn't they listen to me?
We have numerous witnesses who can confirm that you were not always carrying your banner...
Yes, probably... maybe...
So sometimes you were carrying just your sword?
Yes, but...
Did you use the sword that you held in your hand?
No, I... I held it up to...
You held up your sword and flourished it about in the air? Like this?
Yes, maybe... I don't remember...
... so you were in the middle of the battlefield, with your sword in your hand, waving it above your head... charging against the enemy, screaming and yelling... fighting for your life... and you want us to believe that in the middle of all this excitement you never killed anyone?
No, I... I never killed anyone!
Jeanne's alive!
Good.
We have to press home the attack!
Sound the retreat...
But I promised Jeanne we'd fight on!
I made no such promise. Sound the retreat for the night!
But that was her order!
I'm fed up with taking her orders. She swore she'd defeat the English before nightfall, instead of which she goes and plays the fool and gets herself nearly killed! Look at the mess we're in! That's her mess, not mine...! We're worse off then if she'd never come at all! ... now do as I say and Sound the Retreat!
Listen, please accept my apologies for... you know, me pretending to be the... well it wasn't really my idea... well, yes it was my idea but...
Do you think I could have some water?
I would like some fresh straw.
Louis... water and fresh straw!
And I would like to see a priest.
Now?
Yes. I didn't confess today.
Right. Raymond... a priest.
I shall also be needing a war horse  mine is too slow  and armor  and a good sword  and an artist to make me a banner.
Now?
Better today than tomorrow.
Well... uh  this might take a little time  but let me see what I can do.
I also need someone who can read and write.
This I can do. I was studying at the University of Paris  till the English invaded it.
I thought you were an archer?
Yes, I am. I'm an archer who can read and write. Who do you want to write to?
The King of England. I want to give them the chance to leave Orleans in peace before I get there.
Who do they think I am?!
Jeanne, calm down. You can't blame the people  they've been hearing all about you for weeks.
There's nothing to hear  I haven't done anything. And why haven't I done anything? Because none of you will listen to me!!
Jeanne, stop it!
How dare you stop me doing God's will!
He didn't tell you to cut all your hair off...!
How dare you tell me what God tells me to do!
Alright, whatever  but since He's not going to come down and cut it himself, at least let someone cut it properly!
What did they say?
Uh... they said... they will think about it.
Good.
But... to be honest... I don't think they'll leave tomorrow.
What's going on?!
They've started the battle without me!
Not so... easily. Why aren't you... fighting...? go on... we're almost there...
Jeanne, you've been badly wounded...
No, it's... it's nothing, it's...
Alright... I promise to rest if you promise... to go back to the battle.
I promise...
The king said you're his finest archer...?
Well...
Come with me...
Jeanne, calm down, do you hear me? Are you alright?
Yes...
It's over, Jeanne. We won, just as you said!
I'll go.
Jeanne, no...
Jeanne...! Are you alright?
Yes. Yes, I'm fine... We need more brushwood! Why are you staring at me like that?
Because there's an arrow in your leg.
Jeanne... the king has ordered us not to ride with you anymore.
So... what am I supposed to do now?
They've abandoned me... like everyone.
What... what do you mean?
It's been weeks since they spoke to me. Since the coronation... no signs... nothing...
Maybe their silence is a sign...? Maybe it's a sign to go home?
It's not time yet. My mission is not over yet. There is still more I must do before I can really  finally  go home.
But how do you know that these  these voices aren't really just  well, you.
Well of course they're me! That's how God talks to me. If you listen hard enough, even you can hear him. Everyone can hear him.
But I hear so many voices... one voice saying one thing, another voice saying the opposite  love your enemy, kill your enemy  what is good, what is evil...?
All you have to do is stop talking and just listen.
But how do you know what you hear is the truth?
I don't know it. I feel it.
You make it sound so simple...
The truth is always simple... it's you, Jean, who's making things complicated.
Me?! It's not me, it's God who makes everything complicated! If he's allpowerful, why not let the English stay on their island in the first place? And why let this war go on for a hundred years? And why send you out to fight when a girl like you should be at home with your family? Why, why?!
So... even you don't believe in me anymore...
Jeanne... I believe in you... more than anyone...
If you really want to help me, there's one thing you can do.
Tell me...
Tell the king to give me more men.
That's not what I asked... Why do you want to marry me?
You listen to your voices, I listen to my heart.
What did the king say?
He said that... he's making a treaty with the Duke of Burgundy and...
It's a trap! They're buying time till they can bring over more soldiers from England!
Did your voices tell you that? You told me you hadn't heard them for months...
No, but...
Or maybe it's Jeanne who's in a trap  her own trap  a downward spiral that she can't stop?
Did you come back to marry me or to insult me?
To marry you.
I will ask my voices... if they come back one day. Meanwhile... I'm going to Compiegne.
Jeanne... I have been hearing voices  and believe me, those voices left me in no doubt that you must not go to Compiegne!
Jeanne... I believe in you  but can you believe in me for once? Don't go... even if you don't want to marry me.
I would like to marry you. But I have already promised myself... to God.
But... you've done so much for God as it is... can't you do something for yourself for once  for Jeanne?
But it is what I want.
To be killed in battle?
If God wants me to win, he will find a way. And if he wants me to die... if he wants me back... then that's fine too. Then I'll be with him forever.
Will you at least let me stay with you?
It would not be the same without you.
We must sound the retreat!
Not yet!
Get back inside the town and see if the English are attacking from the other side!
But... why... what's the point?
Do as I say!
I want to stay with you...
That's an order!
I am ready now...
Just give me a moment and then you'll be free...
I'm already free...
Yes yes... any moment... you're always so impatient...
My gentle Captain... I'm staying.
I  I don't understand...
One day you will.
You don't know what you're saying. You're going to leave this place, Jeanne  you're going home  or whatever you want  you're going to be happy, and have children, and...
... and maybe the king will give you some money, and a little land, and a title even... ... wouldn't that be a fine thing? You, a lady of title!
I'm staying, Jean.
No, you must come, Jeanne  we need you  so much has happened since you left... I have a new horse now, a white one, just like yours... and La Hire hardly swears at all anymore... You can't stay  they'll burn you!
I'm not afraid of the fire anymore. It will purify me...
Jeanne, you can't leave us like this!
Oh dear, why is life so complicated? Sometimes I really wish I could be someone else.
That's a good idea, sire.
What do you mean?
Let someone else pretend to be you, and see if...
... if she can find me?  That's a brilliant idea! If she's really been sent by God she'll discover the trap, and if she's an assassin she'll kill the wrong man! Bring her up!
Why not you  Jean d'Aulon? The only man who's poorer than I am, and so the only man I can trust. Dignified, honorable, wise... what more could we ask of a king?
My lord, I'm not sure that...
My dear Aulon, to you it shall befall the honor of impersonating the royal blood!
Majesty, I can't...
Why, are you not ready to die for your king?
Of course I am, it's just that...
Good. Until then, feel free to live like a king!
Sire, you know how bad I am at this sort of game.
So... pretend it's not a game.
Jeanne, this is  in fact  my loyal friend and finest archer, Jean d'Aulon. Jean... I place her in your care. Find her suitable lodgings  here  in the castle... and guard her with your life.
Yes, my lord.
Here... to help pay Jeanne's ransom. All the Captains gave what they could, as well as the citizens of Orleans and the other towns she saved...
Very generous of you all. How much?
10,000 gold crowns.
My dear Aulon... That's fine...
Jeanne's been badly injured! She jumped from the top of a tower into a frozen moat!
It's a miracle she's not dead!
We have to do something before she tries it again! I beg of you, my lord, don't let her down... let me organize an escape...
Jean, it's... it's not so easy...
But not impossible... Gilles and La Hire are ready to risk everything to save her...
Jean... me dear, loyal Jean... why do you want to oppose the will of God? Jeanne wanted to go to Compiegne  we let her  she got caught. Then, on my personal orders, Regnault proposed 30,000 crowns for her ransom, and once again the answer was no. And now you say she tried to escape, and the answer is still no. Jean, open your eyes  can't you see the hand of God in all this?
No. I see the hand of Tremoille, and Regnault, and Yolande, and you... and they are dirty hands.
What do you fear most now... my sword? ... or his hands?
Tremoille... don't. Please...
Ha ha... Yes. With prices reaching an all time low, the name of the game has become haveit whereitsat... As we all know, transportation has always been the costliest and trickiest part of this business...
Cost what?
Costliest!
Whats that? A word?
What do you think?
I dont know. Could be the sound of jewellery hitting a parquet floor, huh?
Very funny. Can I go on now?
Sure. But speak English, will ya, ha ha...
Moreau? Cest moi. Alors...
Salut, Laurent. Ouais. It wasnt easy but I got what you wanted through Interpol. Say, whats your business with these Spitzes?
They lost their son. Why?
It appears that in their younger days they were actively involved with a shady German group of Nazi hunters known as Never Forget. Over the years were talking about a dozen or so executiontype killings.
Are they still operative?
Their last suspected kill occurred two years back, though your Spitzes now probably do no more than bankroll the group. Still, Id watch my step. These people are wellconnected, Laurent; former Israeli prime minister, etc. The ladys also president of an international Zionist organisation... Anyway, you get the picture.
Mossad?
Its a good guess...
Okay, shitbag. Im only going to ask you this once. Where is Friedman?
Who? I dont know who the fuck youre talking about, sunshine.
Gluck.
Figlio di puttana. Youre the French asshole who bumped off the London guys...
Five seconds. Then you die.
Fuck...
Three...
Glucks dead, you sonofabitch!
Youre the lantern man, huh? If you wanna see whats left of him...
The acid bath?
Huh! Youve been around, eh?
Why did you kill Friedman?
Let me give you a tip, asshole  no one pulls stunts like what you pulled in London and here tonight and hopes to get away with it. It upsets people. Its wrong. Fucking wrong.
Why did you kill him?
Huh! You turned him into a liability, didnt you know?
Nice way to help a colleague in trouble.
Thats just it. The sonofabitch didnt ask for help from his colleagues... Testa di cazzo! Hiring some amateur outsiders to fix you... He hasnt gone to hell too soon... And neither will you, Mr Lamont!
Are you telling me Friedman didnt tell you I was here looking for him?
If he had, youd be dead.
So why didnt he?
What do you think, huh?
I think youd rather not know what I think.
Huh. Maybe he figured the news our London bureau got a visit from a hitman on behalf of a pissed off client wouldnt go down too well. He only shared his guilty secret last night. And then only cause he was so fucking edgy after calling his hotel we persuaded him to talk.
So you killed him and went to clean out his hotel room... How did Friedman say he got to know where to find me?
Thats the beauty. An anonymous call. Makes you wonder how many people know what youre up to, eh, Frenchfuck?
Try again, and this time be polite.
I can only tell you what he told us...
Not even scum like Friedman would go to the trouble of killing a stranger on the strength of one anonymous call.
Some guy called to let him know the Frenchman whod called the night before he left London was in L.A. looking to kill him. He did his sums and decided to take the call seriously.
What sums?
Two stiffs and a missing kid followed your visit to one of the London hotels. He didnt need your confession...
Youre sure he said his caller was a man?
Thats what he said...
When they realise Im missing...
Shut up and walk...
What you gonna do? Kill me?
Dont tempt me. The last scumbag who thought I might kill him died soon afterwards.
Huh. Im a businessman. What are you, eh?
Questce que tu veux?
Un Autrichien. Negociant en pr pubescents.
Whats an hour of your time worth these days, Nathalie? Combien, Nathalie!
Cinq cents.
Viens.
Jai bien peur quil te faudra attendre. Pas avant la matine.
Tu sais o me trouver.
Bye. And thanks... Nathalie gently closes the door, eyes Lombard who shakes himself awake... rolls her eyes and surveys the room...
O est pass ton salon?
Mon bureau cotait trop cher.
Eh bien... Tes sr que tas besoin de moi? La petite ma lair assez bien foutue, non?
Alors?
Alors quoi?
Le montage, lemballage. Not your regular street muck, is it? This is collectors stuff. How much would it cost me?
A lachat, trois ou quatre mille. En location, cinq cent. Mais a pourrait faire plus. Je ne sais pas. Cest pas vraiment mon truc. I dont know any Austrian, Xavier.
But maybe you know someone who does. An Austrian, in London, dealing in kids and snuff videos. How many can there be? These people supply to order. He has to be known, reachable.
Then why dont you reach him?
I dont have your credentials, Nathalie.
We are so alike, Xavier. Still, sometimes I wonder which one of us is the ugliest.
If you can, send me a receipt.
Welcome to the club.
Excuse me?
I hear youre looking for Leon. That makes me, his oldlady, and now you, looking for the little bastard. Leons gone, man. Vanished. You interested in his photographs?
Uhhuh.
No shit... Well, Im afraid I cant help you.
I take it you dont know where he is, then?
Huh! You could always try Suicide Bridge. You dont know Leon, do you?
I know his work better than I know him.
Let me put it this way then; the photographs and the man? One and the same, man, one and the same. At best fucking weird, at worst fuckedup fucking weird. Maybe you should think yourself lucky. Some folks just aint worth getting involved with. And Leon sure is one of em.
What about his girlfriend?
What about which girlfriend?
Small, blond, goodlooking. She was with him when we met. She had a funny English accent.
Oh. Thatd be Rhian, a Welsh chick he used to lay at weekends. She got wise and dumped him months ago...
Would you know where I might reach her?
Yeah! Somewhere in Wales. I dont really know her. Used to turn up in a Transit van on weekends, sell old furniture at Camden. Thats how come he only laid her at weekends, ha ha...
Could that be Camden Market?
Yeah. Why? Youre going to look for her... Shit! You really think his pictures are that good?
Fuckedup fucking weird.
And you aint neither one of those damned Mexicans who end up littering the landscape after getting rippedoff by their friendly cross border guides, are you, mister?
No...
I didnt think so. The rags on their sorry backs are the only wordly possessions those wretched creatures are ever found with... I dont wanna know who you are or how come you ended up roasting in Owl Canyon. But you might as well know Id have let you fry to a buzzard meal if not for this...
Now, can you stand up? Can you use your legs and stand up?
I... How long have I been here?
Three days and thats three days too many.Come on. Get your ass up.
Huh... I guess you aint quite ready for civilisation yet... Ill give you one more day, a meal, and then youre on your way.
Los Angeles?
Los Angeles is 100 miles away.
Id appreciate it if I could use your phone.
Im sure you would. But if I had one, I wouldnt let you near it. Now you tuck back in and rest until youre told otherwise. And for what its worth, I wouldnt try anything that might be construed as unappreciative of my hospitality. Id sooner shoot you than have you upset me...
Barstows 30 miles to the left. Los Angeles a hundred to the right. Wherever youre heading, I reckon somebodyll pick you up.
Huh... I suppose the idea of a one day trip to Los Angeles doesnt appeal to you...
Is that where lawyers toil for an industry that turns serial killers into heroes who give thrills to young women who write erotic novels about psychopaths and rapists? You go to your world, Ill stay in mine. So long, Mister.
This is private property. The public footpath is back to the left of the bridge.
How are you, Rhian?
Its wet. Will this do?
Wheres your wallet? Have you got a wallet?
Is this some kind of mugging? Because...
Shut up! Wheres your wallet?
In my jacket. Left inside pocket.
Reach for it and throw it to me. And... My fingers on the trigger, you hear!
A private investigator... Youre not Austrian?
Should I be?
Whats a French private investigator doing here?
Can I get up now?
No! What do you want here? How do you know me?
As you know from speaking to Phil, your friend Leon has disappeared, Rhian. His family have hired me to find him.
...Leons not here. How did you get here? Phil doesnt know where I live.
Well, I obviously do. And I also know that Leons not here, Rhian. But I thought that you might know where I should look for him.
You thought wrong. I havent seen Leon for months.
Havent you? Then why the worried messages on his answering machine, Rhian? Id have sworn you expect him to be in trouble.
Youyoure wrong. I just called to ask if I could stay with him next time Im in London. Thats all.
What are you going to do now? Call the police? Take him away? I must warn you hes terrified of men, so...
Shut up!
We didnt quite make it as lovers... Leon is a good man, though...
Did Leon tell you why he didnt want the police involved, Rhian?
He just said he had good reasons.
Good reasons?
Thats what he said. I tried to dissuade him... Told him I couldnt take on another child, that hed get into trouble... I mean, people who sell children... But he wasnt listening... I guess he finally found himself a crusade... His family think hes back on drugs, eh? Huh... Leon did drugs. A lot of drugs. Went through his selfdestruct phase, you know? Things to come to terms with. Demons to fight... Some peoples minds are gloriously uncomplicated. Not Leons. He did beat the drug, though. He did.
His mother would be pleased to hear that.
Yeah... But he didnt beat the demons... A quarter of all the shoes sold in Europe are made by or retailed through his parents leather empire. All started from a small shop in the East End of London and war reparation money for holocaust victims.
Im afraid I dont understand.
Theyre German Jews. Came here before the war. They both lost all their families in extermination camps, but they themselves never went near one. The idea that his family wealth was started with money he believes should have gone to camp survivors has been haunting Leon. Its not guilt, more of a curse... And then theres something about his parents being involved with Nazi hunters... But I think thats just one of Leons dark delusions...
Do you know Leons parents names?
Albert... Albert and Ethel. Why?
Who else knows about the boy?
My sister... She lives in the next valley.
Is she on the phone?
Yes...Youyoure not going to take Shiva away?
I cant think of a good reason for it  for now anyway. My number if anything happens. Whats your sisters number?
Oh, I... She just moved. Ive got her new... Its in my book in the kitchen. Wait... Thank you.
And you better stop greeting strangers with a shotgun. If Leons Austrian was looking for you I reckon hed have found you before I did.
Im sorry. Its just you dont look local...
No sick people in the country, huh?... Just tell me one thing, Rhian. Leons story about the boy? You just took his word for it?
Hed come prepared. He had something besides Shiva... Sleeping Beauty. The Disney film... Well, it looked like the Disney film. It was something else. I couldnt watch...
Whats the date?
The nineteenth... How come you didnt know?
Ive been away. Did Leon speak to you about his sister?
Er... Yes...
Did he ever refer to the hostility between them?
He... Apparently the hostility was all hers. Leon didnt... It hurt him. They used to be close... Their parents were in their forties when they were born, you see. And mostly away. They grew up in a Scottish mansion with old nannies and servants. He... Our world was so old and cold, we shone for one another, Leon used to say. His sister cut him off after she got married. He never understood why but thought it was because she had no children. Was bitter...
The money Leon left for the boy, was it cash?
Yes. Three thousand pounds. I still...
Did he mention anything about having an exhibition of his work?
... No.
You sure? What about before he turned up with the boy?
... No. In fact, Id seen him a couple of months earlier. He was quite depressed. His work wasnt getting anywhere. He said he was going to try something new, realism, London in the nineties  documentary stuff, you know...
He showed me a book with a picture of a couple caught kissing in a street...
Hows the boy doing?
Fine...
Good. You neednt worry about the Austrian anymore. Hes dead. Ill be in touch.
Evening. Table for one?
No. Thank you. Could you tell me if Leon Spitz is here, please?
Leon? No. Im afraid he left.
Left? When? I just come from his place and there was no one there. A neighbour of his...
No. I meant he left as in no longer works here.
Oh. This is... Wed arranged to meet tonight and Im due to return to Paris tomorrow...
Im sorry...
Yes. You wouldnt know where I could reach him? We had to discuss an exhibition of his photographs at my Paris gallery, you see? I really need to see him before I leave.
Five to three. Youre early.
Should I come back in five minutes?
I gather weve done business with a friend of yours?
Have you?
The person who put us in touch seems to think so.
I dont recollect mentioning a friend.
Your lady friend did.
The ladys not a friend. Shes a whore. Someone at a special screening I attended mentioned certain goods could be got from an Austrian here in London. And not just movies.
And while visiting our fair city you... An Austrian?
An Austrian.
An Austrian... Not much to go on, is it?
Questions can amount to revelations. Now, Id hate to think I was made to come here carrying a substantial amount of money in order to be subjected to a cross examination. Mr Friedman led me to believe we had a deal. Do we?
Will you be alone? The merchandise. Is it just you or...
Ill be alone.
You must agree to be blindfolded... Just for the journey. It might appear unseemly  youre the paying customer  but ordinarily clients come with some kind of endorsement.
Its about the puppy. You got the money?
Yeah.
At what time will you be available?
Three oclock.
Le Mercury. Newman street. Ask for Peter.
What is it?
This is the hotel supervisor, Mr Lamont. Im terribly sorry to disturb you but theres been a mixup with our bookings which you might be able to help us resolve.
What are you talking about?
We need a doubleroom and as I understand youre here alone wed be much obliged if youd agree to move to a single room...
What happens now?
We conclude our transaction.
The rooms yours for 24 hours. Its sound proofed, stocked up with food, drink and other things you might find useful. You can do anything you like.
Anything at all?
Anything at all. I presume you wont want to take the boy with you when youre finished? Theres a 500 fee for disposal. The boy is yours, you understand?
Vous tes Franais?
Does it matter?
Problems?
Is my money in there?
Uhhuh. You couldve waited for me inside.
Lets go.
I dont know what your problem is, but...
Right now your big friend at the Diplomat is bleeding fast, Martin. He might still possibly survive if attended to soon. And he did cooperate.
Am I supposed to know him?
Six weeks ago. He bought a boy of yours.
Clients come and go.
This one came back and was never seen again. I understand Friedman looked after him.
Huh, I doubt it... Friedman only deals directly with select customers. I handle the rabble...
Where is Friedman?
Look, I dont think youre fully aware of what youre playing with here, Mister. Whoever put you up to this either pays too well or misinformed you. Why dont you just tell me what it is you want so we can do business in a civilized manner, eh?
Friedman lives with you at the Ambassador?
No. In Hampstead... Why?
Dont jump any red lights.
This car needs petrol.
Shut up and drive!
Youre out of your mind. Whats the idea?
Maybe the thought of people like you going on holiday bothers me. Come on, lets go...
Is it real? You people are sick.
Huh. Id have thought a tough guy like you would know better. The sick ones are out there, friend. They make up the clientle. Get rid of them and were out of business.
Only feeding the disease, eh, Martin?
Money talks, bullshit walks, whether you like it or not.
Maybe I dont.
Maybe you should. Think about it. Those who can afford our goods do their thing without upsetting anyone. Those who cant do it to kids from the streets or their own family and it makes upsetting headlines.
Im overcome by your publicspiritedness.
Boys like the one you met today are surplus. Commodities worth a handful of notes in whatever arsehole of the world they happen to be born into. We improve some lives buying them where theyre not wanted, improve still more selling them where they are. Is that too hard for you?
You know what, Martin? I ought to tie you down with your old arse up in the air and advertise the hole in the middle of it to the world. Free. And hope you never die.
Huh... Im sure thered be lots of takers.
Could someone have hurt you that bad?
Is this Friedman?
Who are you? Who are you working for, huh?
Is this Friedman, Martin? Come on, scumbag. Youve reached your sell by date. Tell me if this is Friedman, where he is in Los Angeles and what name hes using?
Youre making a mistake, tough guy. Whoever he is, your guys not one of Friedmans...
You seem very sure about that.
I told you... The rabble, its me... Huh... Its sad.
What is?
Dying without ever reaching the top...
Trying to say something, Martin?
Hyatt... Friedmans... at the Hyatt...
The Hyatt...? Whats that?
Hohotel... Los Angeles... He...
Good afternoon, Mrs...?
Spitz. We spoke on the telephone. My husband... My daughter, Deborah, whose house this is. My soninlaw, Carlos... The gentleman is a business partner of his.
May I...?
May I ask if you are Jewish, Mr Lombard?
Lombard, this is not a Jewish name, is it?
I hope its not too significant.
What if it is?
Well, I would have to point out that we could have dealt with that question when you called this morning, Mrs Spitz. I wouldnt like to think Id kept you waiting for nothing.
Whatever, you come recommended. We...
Recommended?
Must I speak to you in French?
Didnt you say I came recommended? Thats what I thought. May I know by whom?
You may not. And besides, it is irrelevant.
Okay. Recommended...
Good. Now, as I trust you may have guessed, we are looking for someone to work for us. Someone whose discretion can be relied upon. Someone who while in our employ would give us full commitment. Do you think you could be that person, Mr Lombard?
Look Mrs Spitz... I dont know to whom Im indebted for the recommendation but... Im not in the business of making oaths of allegiance or giving myself character references. What I do is listen to what the people who care to call me have to say and judge whether or not I can be of help. I hope you can appreciate that, Mrs Spitz.
What I can appreciate is insolence, Mr Lombard!
I take it your son is called Leon?
Leonard. What my daughter is on about, Mr Lombard, is that Leonard is somewhat of a Bohemian. You might as well know that...
What do you think has happened to your son, Mrs Spitz?
You wouldnt be here if I knew, Mr Lombard. What I do know is that he has not been at work for three weeks. That enquiries to the police and London hospitals have borne no results. And that a check with his bank revealed he has not used his account for four weeks now.
How did you do that, Mrs Spitz?
Do what, Mr Lombard?
Check with your sons bank. Banks dont usually give out information about their customers.
I said earlier that my husband and I are supporting Leonard in his photography, Mr Lombard. By this I mean that since his return from America I have been depositing for him a monthly allowance in an account we jointly hold. So as you see, I did not have to break the law to find out if he used the account.
I didnt mean to imply you did, Mrs Spitz.
Then you should not have sought an explanation.
I presume you checked your sons apartment...
Yesterday. It all looked normal.
Did you look for his passport, driving licence?
Leonard does not hold a driving licence. As for his passport, I do not know where he keeps it.
So he could have decided to go on a trip...
He could indeed, Mr Lombard. But had he done so I think he would have let us know about it.
Then why arent you asking the police to look for your son, Mrs Spitz?
I take it your son is not married, Mrs Spitz?
No. And before you ask, no, hes not gay! He has had girlfriends, but nothing serious...
Any friends?
The proprietor of his workplace is the only friend of his we know about. His address is in this envelope with Leonards address, keys and other things you might need.
Im sure... As far as you know, when and where was your son last seen?
When... Im told he came here...
The 1,000 is on account.
My rates...
We are aware of your rates, Mr Lombard. We will pay you double your rates plus expenses. In return, need I say it again, we expect discretion and undivided attention.
Why do you think your son chose not to come to you for funds for his photography, Mrs Spitz?
Ha... No, Mr Lombard. His monthly allowance is all he is to expect from us. He knows it and we feel the amount is more than adequate.
My husband and I will be leaving tomorrow for a short stay in Israel. Deborah will be here if you need anything before our return.
Fine. One more thing, Mrs and Mr Spitz; may I ask what is or was your occupation?
10,000 a year to the girl for as long as she looks after the boy?
Plus a trust fund to provide for the boys education.
Look at it this way. He might achieve everything your son never did.
Jah...
Hello again, neighbour. I didnt intrude, did I?
How are you, Jane?
Fine. How was the match? Did you loose?
No.
Must be your lucky day then. Ive got your accounts  you dont owe much tax for last year.
Good.
Yes. But my boss reckons youd still be better off as a limited company. For expenses and all that, you know? Itd cost you about 100 but he said itd be worth it. Of course, youd need a partner to register. But thats a formality. I mean, I could be your partner. I mean, just as a name, right?
Have you heard of a French film called La Collectionoose?
La what?
La collectionoose. Its about a young girl in the south of France who seduces a different man every night and then meets one who resists her. Its on TV tonight and as Im in I thought we could perhaps look at your accounts and... The review says its about the conflict between intellect and instinct. And witty. The directors supposed to be famous. Rommel or something. French. You must know him?
Should I?
I dont know. How many famous French film directors can there be?
That are called Rommel or something, I guess not that many.
So you havent seen the film, then?
Its Friday night, Jane. What happened to your latest boyfriend?
Oh... We split up.
Well, I hope youre not too heartbroken and...
Oh no. Im all right. He was a jerk, really. Another boy, you know? All I meet is boys. When I think of all the fuss about older men fancying young girls. I mean, is it true?
Ive got work tonight, Jane.
Oh yeah! Better be good and hurry away then! Who knows? We might be being watched! Maybe one of your stupid French companies has got a detective prying into your life  after all, thats what they do to their employees, isnt it? Huh! Hope you enjoy ruining peoples lives. Thanks for the lift!
Shes pretty... See you, huh?
Bye bye, Jane. And dont be naughty.
I came to feed your fish. I didnt know...
Oui, bonjour, Jean... Oui, trs bien, merci. Ditesmoi, pourriezvous me dire si vous avez recommandmes services quelquun rcemment... Vous tes certain... Non, non... Je vous remercie...
Hello there. Hows the flat. I cleaned...
Jane, there was an envelope in my desk. The one Id given you and then got back, remember? I cant find it. Do you know where it is?
No... I told you on the phone. Whoever broke in messedup all your papers. I put everything back where I thought it ought to be. Maybe its there with...
Its not.
Well, Im sorry. I... This is my nephew... And my brother, Tim. Ive got the week off and hes come to stay.
Piss off!
Thanks for cleaning my flat and sending my money, all right?... Come on, I need you. Its important.
Just ask if they can recall recommending my services to anyone in the recent past. Say youre my secretary, all right?
Your secretary, huh!
Id appreciate it if you could do this for me. If you cant, dont worry about it. Ill call in about an hour anyway. Sorry but Im in a hurry.
What are you up to, eh, Savieer? I mean, not this but... Money, passports, a gun in a microwave? Who are you, eh? Who are you?
Hello, Jane. Its me.
Really? And how are you, eh? Someone called Pierre Dreyer said that a month ago he had dinner with a Brazilian friend of...
Carlos De Moraes?
Yes. How did...
Thank you, Jane.
Im sorry but Mr Gluck is not answering, sir. Would you like to leave a message?
Ill call again.
The Hyatt. Good afternoon. May I help you?
Can I have the reception desk, please.
Does Mr Gluck call for his messages?
Absolutely, sir. As a matter of fact he called this morning, sir.
Next time he calls tell Mr Gluck he better be there to take his calls at 9 tonight or at 9 in the morning if he cares about his puppies. Got that?
Got it. Puppies.
You sure you passed on my message?
I certainly did, sir...
On the bed!
What...?
Where is the Austrian?
You... Fuck you!
Youre not playing with little boys now, scumbag. Where is the Austrian?
Jee... Fuck... Youre fucking mad!
Who are you?
Where is the Austrian? Is Friedman the Austrian?
Yes. Friedmans the fuckin Austrian!
Where is he?
I dont know. Hes gone! Hes gone. I dont fucking know where, I swear... Hes gone. On holiday...
...On holiday?
Yeah... This morning. He left this fucking bloody morning... Jesus, man, my knees...
Whos the money man?
Who? Martin... Hes Martin...
Ever seen him before?
No... No... I swear...
Whats this place? A hotel of some kind?
Yeah... The Diplomat.
Where?
What?
Where are we?
Finsbury Park. Were in Finsbury Park.
Where are the kids?
What kids?
There were six on offer, you scumbag. Where are the other five?
I dont know... This is just a delivery place, man! I swear I dont know where the kids are... I work for Martin, thats all. Martin knows. He works for Friedman. He knows...
And who does Friedman work for?
The company. We all work for the company.
What company?
I dont know. I dont know, man. I dont even know Friedman that well... I... Man, youve got to get me out of here...
How many of you scumbags are here?
Just me... Martins gone back to the Ambassador. Look...
Whats the Ambassador?
Another hotel. Down the road. Martin lives there. He took your money. Hes got a safe... I need a doctor...
What about the staff? Theyre in on whats going on, arent they? How many of them?
Ffive. The Wilsons and their three kids. They run the place. Look, man, Ive got to get to...
What colour is your car? What colour is your car?
BBlack...
Where is it?
Downstairs... At the front... Jesus...
Im calling about the puppies.
Have we done business before?
I saw the ad at Georges. Im passing through town and Im in a hurry.
May I have your phone number?
Why?
This is a bad line.
What sort of puppy are you looking for?
What sort have you got?
Pups. Bitches. From three to twelve months. Trained and untrained ones. White and brown ones. You understand?
Yeah.
We also provide 24hour aftersale service. Were the puppy to fall sick or accidently die, we would unburden you, you understand?
Yes... Good, good...
So, what are you looking for?
What about an untrained pup, white...
How much of a hurry are you in?
Tomorrow?
Im afraid the only pups currently available at such notice are brown and trained. But they are all very cheerful and have been thoroughly checked for diseases...
I see. How much?
Fifteen for a straight delivery. Twenty with the provision of a safe place. Visitors tend to find the second option more convenient.
... Fine. Ill go for the safe place.
Have the money ready by 11am. Well call you.
Whitney Armstrong, my deputy. What Whitneys trying to say is that you might not live to tell the tale next time you meet your Austrian...
And losing you, wed lose him. And that would be a shame, dont you agree?
Hi...
If you have hard evidence about a child trafficker, we want it, Mr Lombard. And we want it before you get yourself killed...
Most of our information comes out of the mouths of babes, Mr Lombard  confused and frightened victims. Its all too easily discredited, you understand. Now, you might be just what weve been waiting for. Your information could be enough to make em sit up and listen.
Weve still got the Italian...
Thats right. Wheres the fucking Italian, eh, Mr French hero?
Look at him, Whitney. Come all the way from England to clean up California. Huh!
Emily...
No. Youre looking at a real Musketeer here, Whitney. Brave and rash. Had to dash in there. Take a prisoner... Might as well have sent them a notice to quit... Come on, Musketeer! Got anything to say?
Shit! Fuck! Whats fucking wrong with people! Im going to bed. And sweet dreams to you to!
Shell be alright. Shes tough...
May I ask where youre from, Mr Lamont?
Europe... France. Im French but I live in London... ... England.
Youre a long way from home...
You wouldnt have a cigarette, would you?
I dont smoke. If you could get to the point...
Youre sure you wont sit down, Miss Stewart?
Im fine standing, thank you.
Is this some kind of sick stunt? Let me guess. You want money, right?
A small loan would be welcome. More urgently, I need access to a telephone and an address where things can be sent to me.
I cant believe this... Whats coming now, eh? If I dont pay all Hells gonna break loose, is that it?
Well, Id sooner mug an old lady...
You... Jesus Christ!
Okay. The woman just cant walk away... I want straight answers. No hesitation or I walk for sure. Why cant you go to your Embassy?
French people need a visa to enter this country. That takes time and I didnt have any. I used a British passport. My names not Lamont but Lombard. Xavier Lombard.
Where were you staying before the attempt on your life and why cant you go back there?
The Mondrian, room 504. I was checked out in my absence.
By your Austrian?
Yeah.
You dont know why hes come to Los Angeles? The man you say he killed? Who was he? A colleague of his?
No. A poor little rich boy who thought hed save a few kids from their retailer. He disappeared on his second shopping expedition.
Have you never heard of collect calls, Mr...
Lombard... It will take a few days for the things I need to get here. Meanwhile Id sooner not draw police attention walking the streets like a hungry dog...
There are over 4 million people in this city  why me?
I thought youd never ask... As I was having my coffee and crescents at the Mondrian the other morning I spotted your photograph in the Los Angeles Times... Theres a tough lady, I thought. Just the kind who might help me...
You know where to look for your Austrian, right?
I know where to look.
I might come back, I might not. But if I do, it wont be for a couple of hours.
Thereve been 7 international treaties since 1904 aimed at preventing child slavery. But still no worldwide body dedicated to investigating the maltreatment of children used in sexual exploitation. Officially, its just not called for. Sit down. Can I offer you some coffee?
I wouldnt mind. Thank you.
A recent acquisition. Weve had four break ins this year alone; files stolen, computers wrecked, faeces smeared on walls. The good guys dismiss us as alarmist dogooders; the bad guys will risk prison to intimidate and rob us. An easy living indeed, Mr Lombard. I got through to Moreau and Jane. I left your landlord out of it. Your flats been broken into. Jane wants you to call her back.
Hah... What about Nathalie?
No answer. You have no passport and your Embassys out. How do you plan to leave the U.S., Mr Lombard?
Im sure Ill find a way.
Like youll find a way to stop your Austrian killing you a second time round?
Thank you for the guided tour, but would you mind telling me what were doing here?
How come youre alive? Child traffickers usually achieve what they set out to do. What am I really looking at here, huh? Are you really not just a lousy private eye? Am I really looking at some kind of cunning dispenser of justice in disguise?
Did you call me up here to enjoy yourself, Emily, or to let me use your phone? Because we seem to have a slight problem...
Its give and take time, Mr Lombard. You need help, we need information. You didnt really expect me to put my ass on the line helping a criminal just for the thrill of it, did you?
A criminal?
Did you not enter this country illegally?
Huh... I have no... ... hard evidence...
Come on, Mr Lombard. You tailed your man all the way here from Europe. You told me you knew where to find him, remember? Or didnt I hear you right?
A little too tight, eh? ...They were my sons. Only thirteen and already six feet tall. A real lanky boy... I... Theres some cold chicken salad in the fridge if youre hungry.
Thank you. But I think Ill go to bed. Its been a long day.
Right... Well, Ill get your money first thing in the morning, okay? Okay. Goodnight then.
Yeah. Goodnight, Emily.
Dont fall asleep with your hair wet.
What am I to do with the packages if...
Burn the passport and keep the money. Think of it as a donation to the cause...
Get a pen and dont ask any questions.
Oh. What... Yeah. Okay.
Route 395. Past Edwards Air Force base and about half a mile before a place called the Red Mountain Motel. Theres a dirt track with a Closed to the public sign. It leads to some kind of ranch in the middle of nowhere. If you havent heard from me by morning send the cavalry, okay? But not before, you hear?
Have you found your man? Is that where he is?
I think so. And if it comes to it, tell the cops anything you think will make them move. Whatever you came up with couldnt come close to how bad it is. Bye now.
Look, you dont tell me about some Godforsaken place where stuff so bad even I couldnt imagine it goes down and expect me to go quietly to sleep! What happened? Whos the guy? The Austrian?
Whos the guy? Whos the guy! Nom de Dieu! Had the guy got a closer look at you or your number plate Id have had to kill him.
What...?
What... Some kind of organ factory... Pregnant girls doped up. Babies. Theres a lot of people back there. Theyre holding a seminar. Traffickings the past, breeding the future...
Friedmans dead... They killed him...
So who... Whos the man? Where is he?
Some Italian I picked up back there. Hes in the boot of the Mustang.
Italian? The Mafia...?
Who knows. Who cares... You wanted slime. You got slime.
No one saw me but the Italian and a dog. I blew up their generator. They thought it was an accident but by now they must have realised one of their party is missing. It might make them feel insecure enough to decide to pack up...
Were both thinking the same thing, right?
Do you know a friendly cop?
Call from the motel and tell him if he moves fast enough there might be something left of a body dissolving in acid. Can I have the keys to your house?
Thatthat wont do. Thats not the way it goes. You saw it, you tell it, thats the way...
Im finished here and Im tired, Emily. You shouldnt be here. Now dont make it worse.
A seminar in a baby breeding farm! Bodies in acid! You think Ill get anywhere with that? Jesus! With luck I might raise a laugh. They might even send a patrol car to check the place out. Whatever, itll be too late.
Then find another way.
Look! Either you talk or the creeps are gonna walk. For gods sake. What am I supposed to say? I got this from a French guy from England who broke in there to have a chat with an Austrian child trafficker? Is that it?
Damn it! You cant fucking walk away from this!
Its up to you whether they walk or not.
...Im Emily Stewart. The hysterical female who sees evil everywhere since the day her thirteen yearold boy disappeared. The pain in the ass who cries wolf at the drop of a hat. However I go about this thats who I am. Do you get what Im fucking saying, Mr Lombard?
What about your friendly cop?
My exhusband. My work drove him away. Made his life a misery. He thinks Im obsessed, punishing myself for what happened to our son. But hes a good guy. Hell listen to you. He wont turn you in if I ask him not to. I can pretty much guarantee that. Okay?
Theyd never let me go. And youd end up in more trouble than you know for helping me.
You cannot walk away from this. You cannot.
I can... The question is, can you lie to your ex husband?
Nothing sticks to slime, Emily. This should cover what you lent me.
Huh! And they say charitys only rewarded in Heaven... Hallelujah... Christ...
Good morning, sir. How can I help you?
A coffee and a couple of croissants.
Crow what?
Croissants.
Im sorry, sir. Could you try that again?
Croissants. Like that...
The word for those things is croissants.
Not in America, sir. You must be from Europe. So, black coffee and a couple of crescents.
Directory enquiries. Can I help you?
Yes. Im trying to reach a friend but I cant get through. The number is 01766 770 471.
01766 770 471. Let me check it for you, sir.
Theres nothing wrong with the line, sir. Are you sure you have the right number? 770 471 is the number of a call box.
A call box? Thats odd. Where exactly?
Penrhyndeudraeth, North Wales.
Can you tell me how you spell...
Now you know why youre here, Mr Lombard. It might be difficult for someone like you to discern, but we are people of a certain standing.
Appearances can be deceptive, Mrs De Moraes.
That depends what youre looking at.
Three weeks ago. To borrow money. I wasnt here but he got to my husband, sold him some fancy story about an exhibition of his work and needing money to get new prints made. Carlos handed over 1,000 to get rid of him.
And that is the last time any...
Well, Leon does not need money for prints, Mr Lombard. Does his own printing. Wouldnt want anyone to interfere with his Art! Which, as he subsequently vanished, raises the question: what was the money for? Perish the thought.
What about you, Mrs De Moraes?
I have too much money to work, Mr Lombard.
Is that why your brother braved coming here to ask you for a loan?
Perhaps it wasnt so brave of him. Had I been here I just might have given him his money, Mr Lombard. One can reap rewards from the strangest of conduct, as someone in your line of work ought to know.
Was it cash, Mr De Moraes? The 1,000. You gave it to him in cash?
I wont comment on the time but youll understand if I dont tell you to sit down. Now, spare me the apology and get to the point, will you, Mr Lombard.
Im afraid I have bad news, Mr De Moraes. I have reason to believe your brothers in trouble.
For your information, Mr Lombard, trouble is possibly the one thing Leon is capable of getting into all by himself. Though I doubt he will not ultimately fail even at that.
I dont know. He seems to delight in so much sisterly love, he might become determined.
Ohoh! Touch, Mr Lombard! But tell me, what would you know about sisterly love, eh? No. Dont. You might get confused speaking of things you dont understand and we need you clear headed, at least until youve done what we are paying you for.
Now you are confusing me, Mrs De Moraes.
Can it be that easy?
Can it be that you want your brother found?
Anything is possible.
I found this at your brothers.
Disney! How inter...
Its a snuff movie. Prime paedophile material. Im told it retails at around 4,000. I see you dont require a definition.
You... You found that at Leons?
Theres more. Your brother also purchased a young boy for 15,000.
You seem surprised. Could it be you dont think that badly of him after all? You neednt worry. It seems his motives were pure. From what I can make out he bought the boy to rescue him from further abuse.
What... What are you talking about?
Your brother got mixed up with child procurers and tried to make this world a better place, Mrs De Moraes. And having rescued one little life he unwisely set out to repeat the exercise. You dont mess around with child procurers. Right now my guess is hes either on the run, held captive, or dead. I understand your misgivings, Mrs De Moraes. But Ive seen the boy and made telephone contact with the man Leon bought him from. If anyone knows what happened to your brother it will be that man. Which leads me to why Im here at such a late hour. I need 20,000, in cash, by 11 this morning.
Excuse me?
I need the money to smooth my way, you understand? Now, have you got that sort of cash here or do we need to meet in the morning?
I will of course do my best to hang onto it.
Where is it? He. The boy you said my brother bought! Where is he?
I cant tell you that yet. But hes being well looked after.
Oh no. Youll have to do better than that, Mr Lombard.
Look, Mrs De Moraes, however much of a let down it might be, your brothers not back to his old weekend tricks! Impressionable as he is, he probably grew tired of healthy girls in grisly poses, tried moving on to bigger things, came upon more than hed bargained for and somehow fancied he could take on the real world. Which he no doubt chanced upon on his way to that thing now sitting on your table... Have a look at it, Mrs De Moraes. I told you I had bad news...
How dare you... You dont know this tape belongs to my brother, do you, Mr Lombard?
The question now is whether or not your brother still owns anything, Mrs De Moraes.
No. The question now is how long its going to take you to get out of here, Mr Lombard.
Excuse me?
Get out of my house. Youre fired, Mr Lombard.
Perhaps I should come back when youre...
No. Youre fired! Get out of my house. And take your sick tape with you...
Laurence!
I was hired by your parents, Mrs De Moraes.
The family hired you and I have just fired you, Mr Lombard.
Why me, Mrs De Moraes? Why should such wellconnected people as you hire a small time French detective to look for their missing son, Mrs De Moraes?
Huh! Who do you think we are, Mr Lombard?
Couldnt Nazi hunters do the job?
I still dont buy your story but I figured it cant do any harm to let you go on with your enquiry. Besides, if you do turn out to be nothing but a cheap little extortioner, we could always get the right people onto you. I trust you know who I am talking about.
You drive a hard bargain.
Thank you for coming. Come in and close the door, will you?
Last night you upset my sleep. Tonight my social life. We have two minutes. My dinner guests are waiting.
You lost my money?
You could say that. And Friedman left this morning for Los Angeles.
Who is Friedman?
The man who sold the boy to your brother.
Im impressed. That information could have cost me 20,000.
Well, I found a little more than that. Let me put it this way:... Last night I thought your brother might be dead, tonight Im convinced he is. That said, I have no evidence and I advise you to let the police deal with it.
Are we understood?
You watched the tape? Friedman and his people dont just provide little kids and videotapes, Mrs De Moraes. Theyre in the importexport business. They run hotels here in London which they probably use as ware houses and ports of call for their merchandise.
Huh! Really? Hotels?
The hotels are useful capital investments. The kids liquid assets. My guess is they own hotels across the globe, and travel agencies specialising in flights from the third world to boot.
Minimizes the risks. Children can be moved across borders using reliable businesses. These can also be used to move women and drugs... Anything that makes money really.
Wwhy are you telling me all this, Mr Lombard?
You drive a hard bargain, Mr Lombard.
You do want me to keep the job, dont you, Mrs De Moraes?
Mr Lombard?
Have you got a pen?
Just a moment... Go ahead.
The Mondrian, room 504. The number is 266 7548, plus the L.A. code...
...7548. Have you... Have you found him yet?
Are you all right?
Yes... You woke me up... Its the middle of the night here. Have you found Mr Friedman?
Not yet. The place I hoped to find him turns out to be little more than a contact address. Ill give it 24 hours. He just might show up. If you need to reach me ask for Mr Lamont. Paul Lamont, all right?
Paul Lamont...?
Yeah. Goodnight, Mrs De Moraes.
Mr Lombard. Mrs De Moraes...
Uh... Wait a moment, Mrs De Moraes...
Mr Lombard...
How are you, Mrs De Moraes?
When did you get back?
Why dont you ask when I left the Mondrian?
Im really sorry you were not called...
Youre repeating yourself, Mrs De Moraes.
I... Well, were burying Leon tomorrow and... Look, I wish I had more time, but its late and with the funeral...
Arent you curious to know about Friedman?
I... If you dont mind, I do not think he matters now. It... Things turned out to be as we thought; Leon was weak. Theres no point in delving into his sad life anymore. Now, will you please tell me how much we owe you?
Black suits you.
Sorry?
Whats in the bag? Underwear? To seduce your husband? Or is it for your own recreation? Tell me, how come such a handsome couple sleep in seperate bedrooms? Is it because he does it with little children?
Or is it the other way round? The children are needed because you cant satisfy him?
You... You are out of order, Mr Lombard. I...
You what, Mrs De Moraes? YOU WHAT?
How did you break into my office, Deborah? Ladies of your standing dont learn to pick locks between shopping trips. Come on, Deborah! Acting dumb doesnt suit you! Who knew Id found dirt on your brother, huh? Who knew it was in an envelope? Taking me for dead, whod want to make sure it didnt fall into the wrong hands?
Youre mad...
Ive had a long and unpleasant day. Im tired and Im angry. But mad? Not yet. I paid Leons boy a visit this morning. Found him alive and well. Why havent you told your husband where he is since reading my note, eh?
Why... I dont know what youre talking about.
You know hed have had him killed, dont you? Does a conscience still burn somewhere inside your sore mind, Deborah? Or is it just cold expediency? Could the boy perhaps come in useful when and if the day ever comes for you to face up to the man you married?
Have you finished?
When did you learn about his taste for kids, huh? On your honeymoon? Or was it later, when bitterness set in and you turned against your beloved but weak little brother? How did you find out? Did he confess? Try to convert you perhaps? Or was it womans intuition? Or just the way he fucked you?
You do have a vivid imagination, Mr Lombard. I only wish youd use it fruitfully instead of in being obnoxious. I fail to understand your purpose in this. Still, say what youre owed if you still wish to be paid or get out, all right?
I guess the news youd sent me after Friedman didnt go down too well, eh?
Whatever the reason, Im sorry I did. Goodbye, Mr Lombard. I believe you know your way out.
You knew he had nothing to do with your brothers disappearance, didnt you?
Huh! Dont you recall convincing me he had? You should learn to live with your mistakes, Mr Lombard. There is some merit in it.
I take it you learnt to live with yours then. Take it all the minddulling pills in your medicine cabinet are surplus to your wellbeing...
How... When did you...
It must be tough being married to Adonis to end up sleeping alone every night. Sleep must be hard coming. Whats harder? The thought of the fine litter you two could have bred if? Or imagining what he does with his children?
Tell me, did he kill his little victims too?
No!
What do you mean, No, Mrs De Moraes?
My brother hung himself.
Does the name Pierre Dreyer mean anything to you? Hes a client of mine and a friend of your husband.
Leon hung himself.
Adonis thought your brothers bodyd be found reasonably quickly when he hung it in Epping Forest, didnt he? Seemed like a good idea. An exjunkie, obsessed with death; the perfect candidate for suicide. He just forgot one thing: forest ramblers are rare during your average blustery English November. An Englishman might have thought of that, but a Brazilian...
Leon hung himself...
Leons not found, your parents worry, talk of hiring help to find him, even mention their manhunter friends perhaps... and Adonis panics, takes control, brings me in reckoning a small time detective is unlikely to dig up anything awkward, not before Leons found anyhow. He must have kicked himself when he learned Id exceeded his expectations.
Leon hung himself...
Leon didnt hang himself, Deborah. Your husband killed him and made his death look like suicide. How did he do it, eh? Strangulation? Drugs? No doubt an autopsy will tell.
I doubt Friedman ever even met Leon, Deborah. Friedman dealt with select customers. As for my envelope, had he know where it was he wouldnt have mistaken me for a hitman called Lamont when we met in Los Angeles.
...Youyou spoke to him?
Not in the strict sense of the word, no. He was in too much of a hurry to kill me when we first met and too wasted in acid when I caught up with him later.
Your brother stumbled upon Adoniss little secret, didnt he? And traded his silence for a kid and some cash. And Adonis fell for it, bought him his kid, sent him away, and then killed him when he came back for more. Leon didnt come here to borrow money for prints. He came to extort a second kids life. Your flunkey let him in, so his visit couldnt be concealed, hence the exhibition story. There was no exhibition. Just as you suspected. Remember, Deborah? Leon does his own prints. Wouldnt want anyone to interfere with his Art. I should have paid more attention to your words. Perhaps its the way you say them...
Ifif my car is there, I could be the one who... Why dont you accuse me of killing my brother?
Kids are not your thing, Deborah. Youd have been ready for me when I turned up with Sleeping Beauty. Damn it! Then too I should have paid more attention. Not Leon, you said. It struck me at the time, but obviously not hard enough. You didnt say My God!, or whatever else wellbred ladies squeak on hearing Uncle Henry misbehaved. Not Leon. Who then? You sure were right about one thing, Deborah, the job was too formidable for me. I should have thought a little more before I left for Los Angeles. But there I was focused so hard on Friedman Id stopped thinking. Nothing added up  Leon soliciting money for prints while buying kids at 15,000 a go; infiltrating the world of child traffickers; duping Friedman into selling him a little boy... You sure were right. The job was too formidable for me. But you knew that, didnt you?
Leon could still have hung himself.
Oh no. At long last Leon had found a mission. Hed never have killed himself when glory beckoned. Your husband killed your brother. And thanks to you, almost got me killed too.
Youre wrong about my being there, though. Carlos borrowed my car that day, his had broken down... Leon saw it, like you, assumed I was there, thought hed wait to ask for a lift. But Carlos turned up, with the tape you found... Leon got his lift, and accidentally picked up the tape with his photo equipment when he got out. He watched it, confronted Carlos, threatened to tell the police about the hotel... I dont know how he knew about the hotel. Perhaps Carlos talked too much... My husband did not tell me... You more or less guessed the rest... I didnt know any of this before you left for Los Angeles.
You dont say.
That my brother, my husband and your Mr Friedman were linked, that much I had guessed. But that my husband had killed Leon? No.
Why did you send me after Friedman? To atone for your sins?
I didnt know my husband and Friedman knew each other. I just... Do you think we spoke about it? Ive known for five years. Hes known Ive known for five years... But not once have we spoken about it. There are things one just doesnt speak about...
One just doesnt... Tell me, what does one speak about, huh?
Think what you like. But dont presume to understand.
I dont.
Good.
Is there anything to understand?
Why do I feel I neednt answer that?
Rich. Young. Beautiful. You must at least get a kick out of what he does to his kids.
You bastard...
Five years of it. Surely, youd have divorced him if he disgusted you?
You splendid bastard...
Are there truly no extenuating circumstances?
...Were turning in circles.
And you still havent told me why you sent me after Friedman.
Maybe I wanted to give my husband a fright.
A fright?... Five years of cowardice led to your brother being murdered and you wanted to give his murderer a fright?
I didnt know who or what had happened to my brother yet, Mr Lombard!
What was the idea? Husband is filled with fear when he learns his child suppliers being tailed?
Something like that.
Something like that?
Something like that.
What happened? Adonis slapped you about a little and you reverted to cowardice?
Here we go again.
Where is that?
Simplify and damn.
Dont you believe in simplicity?
Should I?
We all have to like what we become. Cowards included. We achieve this by complicating things a little. But its never that complicated really.
You seem to know what youre talking about.
Perhaps it came to me while dying in a Californian desert because a woman set upon giving her husband a fright got slapped about a little.
My husband didnt need to slap me about, Mr Lombard. I volunteered...
To get me killed...?
I didnt intend it that way... It just happened. He heard from Laurence that youd been back. That wed argued. He asked why and it just happened; I told him everything... I couldnt help it. Wanted to see him scared. I had never seen him scared before, you see...
Well, I hope you enjoyed yourself.
Perhaps I did... Until fear turned into panic. Thats when he hit me, and told me hed killed my brother... You dont know what youve done, he said. Were in deep trouble, he said. We, he said. We. Wed both be killed if Friedman ever found out you were working for us, he said. We had to stop you and Friedman meeting...
You know something? Ive just seen so much ugliness I dont think Id mind four walls and dinner served every night at a regular time. Id hoped to have a private word with Adonis, but if thats the way you want it.
What are you doing? You cant. I...
Do you think the boy you saved might identify your husband as his purchaser, Deborah? And then, your brothers not buried yet. As I said earlier, an autopsy will...
He... He is dead! MY HUSBAND IS DEAD! Call my parents. Theyll tell you. Call them!
Do you think wed let him get away with the murder of my brother?
We? You and your parents killed your husband?
No. Not us...
They found his body yesterday. In the pool at our house in Sao Paulo. He drowned. Drank too much, went for a swim and drowned.
Your flunkey said he was expected back tonight.
The staff dont know yet... I called my parents, told them everything... I just couldnt take any more...
Get to the point, will you...
My parents flew back from Israel... Told him they would get him killed unless he flew back to Brazil immediately and agreed to a divorce. He flew back to Brazil... And his drowning was arranged...
So you did talk about it, huh?
On... Once... Once... What are we... you going to do?
What do you suggest?
I dont know. Everyones dead...
Your parents arranged the visit to my office?
Why the hell couldnt you divorce the man?
You wouldnt understand.
I... We have to bury Leon tommorrow...
The dead can wait.
Thats right.
Will you please come with me?
That might depend on where youre going.
I am Lawrence, sir. Mr and Mrs De Moraes majordomo. They are expecting you.
De Moraes? I was asked here by a Mrs Spitz.
That would be Mrs De Moraes mother, Sir. Mr and Mrs Spitz are here with their daughter.
Good afternoon. De Moraess residence.
Could I speak to Carlos or Deborah?
Im afraid they are out at the moment, sir.
When will they be back?
Mr De Moraes is due back from Brazil late this evening. Mrs De Moraes is out and not expected before eight. Do you wish...
By the way, Laurence, were you here last time your mistresss brother came over? You know, just before he disappeared?
I work here, sir. Im here most of the time.
You wouldnt recall if the brothersinlaw left together, would you?
You will have to ask Mr De Moraes that, sir. Would you like a drink while you wait?
No. Thank you. Ill be fine...
Mrs De Moraes must have taken it hard, eh? Her brothers death.
Dial OOO on the telephone if you change your mind about the drink, sir.
Hot... These roads all round here, closed to the public... Whys that? Military bases? Huh. I guess theres space enough for war games... Must be good for business.
Must it?
All those soldiers out there... getting bored, thirsty. Come out here for refreshment or female company perhaps?
Aint nobody out there, Mister.
Nobody? Huh!... How come?
Maybe for the same reason that made someone somewhere not consider this a spot to build the Getty Museum...
Haha... Yeah... What about that road back there, though? It says closed to the public, doesnt it?
You a tourist?
Get it out of here!
Kiki  he won't hurt you. There's nothing to be afraid of.
Makes no difference. Get him out!
Listen, Kicks, you'll never guess what I've cooked up this tine...
That's easy. Me.
I thought  is Kiki just going to walk on that floor tonight walk out cold before a bunch of gawks who think a Spanish twirler is the greatest thing in life. No. Not my favorite client. She's going to make an entrance this town will never forget!
On his back, I suppose.
No. I thought that might be just a little corny. I want you to lead him in on a leash.
You're too good to me.
Look, Kicks, have I ever done anything to hurt you?
No  not yet.
And I never will you know what's between us we're a thing But this is serious competition.
Get it out of here!
Kiki  he won't hurt you. There's nothing to be afraid of.
Makes no difference. Get him out.
Listen, Kicks, you'll never guess what I've cooked up this time.
That's easy. Me.
I thought  is Kiki just going to walk on that floor tonight walk out cold before a bunch of gawks who think a Spanish twirler is the greatest thing in life. No. Not my favorite client. She's going to make an entrance this town will never forget.
On his back, I suppose.
No. I thought that might be just a little corny. I want you to lead him in on a leash.
You're too good to me.
Look, Kicks, how long have we known each other?
This is l939. Can't you subtract?
Almost three years, isn't it? And have I ever done anything to hurt you?
No not yet.
And I never will  you know what's between us  we're a thing  But this is serious  big competition.
CloClo?
I thought you might strut this kitten in right in the middle of her act.
You look swell in that threealarm number 
The red dress? No. My black one. Then I'll be just like him.
Are you all right?
Now look what you've done.
Suppose I slip them a few bucks for the funeral expenses.
Don't be soft.
I suppose he was trying to make me feel bad.
And I suppose you don't feel bad!
Who was the other man?
I don't know a witness. He seemed to know something about animals  you know  expert testimony.
What did he have to do  look at the body?
We all, had to look at the body. It was awful, Kiki  awful!
Well, does everybody love us now? You've been gone long enough to softsoap twenty editors!
Yeah.
And did you find the leopard?
It must be the altitude you, bucking around the countryside with a lot of bootandsaddle boys 
The whole town's in a state, Kiki doors locked, people huddling together like scared sheep nobody on the streets at night 
Our first real break  and we throw wild animals at the audience
Forget it. I'm buying a drink for a fellow who was on the posse with me, a nice guy. Come along he'll get a great kick out of meeting you.
Who is he?
You remember the fellow this morning  Galbraith. You've got time before the supper show.
 As long as my feet held out.
And not a sign of the leopard?
I can use them.
Do they close up every year for this Processionist business?
That was nice of Mr. Galbraith.
He's a nice guy. Vie ought to keep in touch with him.
Pretty. You know  it's funny but flowers only mean one thing to me now.
I know. Funerals.
Yes.
Jerry, these flowers aren't really for me 
You mean you want to take them to the cemetery.
Yes. Do you mind?
And she waited here for him?
Robles says it looks that way. Belmonte had already been there and left. They only missed each other by a few minutes.
Why do you want to stay around here? It'll only make you feel badly.
Maybe I want to feel badly.
That doesn't make sense.
What else do you care about, Kicks?
You. Us.
I'm glad you care about us, Kicks. Sometimes that gets kind of lost in the racket 
Maybe there ought to be less racket and more us.
Confession. I'm a complete softie. I've been consciencestricken and worried sick ever since that leopard got away 
If that's being a softie  there are two of us.
Kiki  it wasn't the leopard.
You're positive of that, aren't you?
Absolutely sure.
You already know the answer to that. I want this town to be safe and happy again 
I'm no detective. I don't even know how to begin. All I know is I want to do something about all this.
Oh, by the way  I'm out of cash 
Didn't you take your cut out of the closing check?
I got into a little crap game.
That's funny  I never knew you to lose that much before 
As a matter of fact, I'm out of cash myself.
What! You can't be 
I  I bought some silver jewelry and stuff from Eloise 
Eloise doesn't own enough of anything to make a dent in your pay check, Kicks.
All right, I'm not ashamed of it! I split it two ways 
Half to the Delgado family and half to CloClo's family.
How do you know?
No. No, thanks. Now we've got to do it ourselves.
We will 
Kiki?
It's all right. I'm not hurt.
We stood here once before.
I know  Teresa 
I hated you that day  you and your flip talk  with that little girl lying dead.
I know. What do you think I felt when you said, "don't be soft?"
Jerry, I want you to be soft. You are soft  inside  where it matters. I wanted it that day too, but didn't dare tell you.
We ought to dare to tell each other everything, Kiki  you and I.
It's a lovely town  it was until we came and let the leopard loose and all this happened.
Kiki, Galbraith said something to me once,  something you ought to know. We were talking and he said that people were like that ball on the fountain at the hotel they got pushed around by things bigger than themselves. That's the way it was with us  and we were too small to see it that way.
You can go now, Manning. There is no way we can hold you legally responsible.
Thanks, Sheriff.
I haven't done any posse work since last time I rode with Toni Mix at the old Bijou Theatre  aged six, If you're interested,
Go on foot.
It's not for me. I'm literally and figuratively a tenderfoot.
That's why it just mauls and tears at them.
Something's wrong with this whole setup 
Yes, there is something wrong. People who want publicity and don't mind how they get it what risks they make other people run   what agony and sorrow they bring to other people 
I know all that, chief, and I don't like it any better than you do, but there's something else 
What are you getting at?
Nothing much  just that it might not be a cat this time.
I've been trying to tell him, Sheriff. He won't listen to me.
Let me get one thing clear. Did Galbraith make a direct accusation?
No. He was kidding Charlie.
State hunters?
Professional hunters, who rid the state of cougars.
Yes. The lipstick.
Why?
Ask Kiki. Ask any woman. Girls don't put on lipstick in the middle of the night on a dark, lonely street unless they're with a man or expecting a man.
Chief, don't you understand what this means?
You think Galbraith found the leopard on the day you went out with the posse.
I'm sure of it!
Galbraith knows something. He as good as said so 
I am not interested in what somebody else thinks. You being me facts and I'll act on them.
That's a fact, isn't it?
Yes. And I am taking it to headquarters for examination.
You won't go to Galbraith with me?
Offend a reputable citizen and involve the department in a slander suit? No. I'm in office to protect the taxpayers money not throw it way. Come on, Charlie.
Jerry told me you were an expert with animals, Mr. Galbraith. Couldn't you tell where it went?
To know where that leopard went  I'm afraid you'd have to be a leopard and think like a leopard. I was a naturalist. That hardly qualifies me as an expert in hunting down lost leopards. I used to teach zoology in a little freshwater college back East. I gave that up.
What do you do now?
There's a little museum here in town. They've hired me to run it, We've some interesting exhibits of Indian arts and crafts. It's fun  and I like living here in New Mexico.
Why did you give up teaching?
Various reasons. But I can't see why you'd be interested in the rather dusty career of William Galbraith teacher, naturalist, curator  when you lead such a gay and exciting life yourself.
So you see meeting you is a real thrill for me.
Well, I'm hardly Mrs. Leslie Carter whoever she was. In fact, I'm not even much of a success around here particularly after the backfire on Jerry's little publicity stunt with the leopard.
That was unfortunate.
That was a calamity!
Well, I'm next. You won't hear anything like that, Mr. Galbraith. I'm not a popular favorite since I let the leopard loose.
I'm sure if you are as talented as you are charming, Miss Walker, you have nothing to worry about.
Thanks.
I've disturbed you. I'm sorry 
Miss Walker  I didn't expect anyone 
Of course. Only I'm afraid you'll be cheated. There isn't much of a view of the procession here.
I thought they came right past here 
They do, but  there are no lights out there  they'll just be shadows 
Wait 
No  really, I can see them  they're coming now  turn off the lights 
Show business?
Yes. It's always fascinated me. You know, once, when I was a youngster, I went to see Mrs. Leslie Carter in "Zaza." After the play I stood in the alley just to watch her come out.
Well, I'd best be off.
I want to ask you something.
It's about the leopard.
You're worrying about its killing someone else?
Yes. I want to go out and patrol the town  be everywhere at once  be sure nothing happens to anybody.
Of course. It's the way any decent man would feel in your position.
You know about animals  their habits  will it come back?
No. I'm quite sure.
There is no danger at all. It's a wild animal. Do you think a wild animal prefers walls, streets and people when it can get into open country?
That's right, of course.
Don't feel so concerned, Jerry.
Doc  something you said the other day 
Yes?
It doesn't jibe with this you told me the leopard would go out into the country  it wouldn't stay in the city 
Sure  certainly  but what's that got to do with this?
That's what I don't understand  why should it come here  and why didn't it stay here? It's got trees and bushes here  outside nothing but cement and asphalt.
Jerry, I talked to you about the habits of an ordinary wild leopard. This leopard is another matter entirely   a caged animal travelling around with Charlie How Come for years and years.. That's why it kills human beings.
Why?
It doesn't know how to hunt its natural prey.
But it doesn't eat what it kills.
Caged animals are unpredictable. They're like frustrated human beings. I can't answer your question.
Just a minute, Robles. Let him go on.
I can understand about the cat killing the first girl. Charlie How Come told me. All that noise and those lights  scared crazy it would do anything. Last night there was nothing to disturb it. Just a little girl alone in a cemetery.
You know Charlie HowCome?
We're old friends.
Come to look around?
More or less.
I'll take you about. Got some nice things.
Charlie and I were talking. That's one reason I wanted to see you.
About Charlie's leopard?
Yes.
Charlie doesn't think the leopard killed the girl in the cemetery.
Charlie likes his leopard.
It could be a man.
It could be. Why would a man kill her? For what? It wasn't robbery. It wasn't a crime of jealousy or passion. She had no enemies.
There are all sorts of men. You get to see some funny ones as a reporter.
I can understand what you mean  demented men, pathological cases. But what sort of man would kill like a leopard and leave the traces of a leopard?
Some crazy guy.
But he would have to know about leopards  have access to leopard claws and hair.
We had given up digging in a certain barrow. I went back and I tried again. I just had a hunch.
A hunch  that's all I've got about this leopard thing. It's just a hunch, yet I feel it deep in the stomach. It was a man!
Yes, but what sort of a man?
I don't know.
You, Charlie  you know leopards. You might have had an old claw around somewhere, and perhaps a bit of hair from the cage  eh?
Come on, Charlie. Let's go find another and better suspect.
Don't you want to see the rest of the exhibit?
Some other time.
You must admit it's possible that it might have been a man.
Just barely possible   yes.
You know a lot. You've taken a lot of fancy courses in colleges and that kind of stuff   what kind of a man would kill like that?
But all those fancy courses were about the dead, Jerry, not the living.
All right  the dead, then. In history there must have been men like that  men with kinks in their brains 
Yes. There have been men who kill for pleasure  strange pleasure. There was Blue Beard in France  Jack The Ripper in London. It's not uncommon.
If there were a man like that, with a kink in his brain around here loose, what would he be like.
To the eye? Like other men.
I don't mean that. How would he act? What would he do?
He'd act normally when he was with other people. It would be a man who suffered remorse and even pity when it was all over.
Couldn't you tell a man like that when you saw him?
No. He would be a hard man to find, Jerry. Particularly if he were a clever men. He would go about his ordinary business calmly and coolly except when the fit to kill was on him.
You've thought of all this before. You know it isn't the leopard Don't you?
It was you, Galbraith!
No.
It was you.
Not! I tell you. No!
You shot the leopard. We know that. You killed Consuelo. You killed Clo Clo. Then tonight 
I didn't do anything. She screamed. Something frightened her.
Consuelo screamed too  and Clo Clo. Why did you do it? Why? Quick. Tell me why?
It's better you don't know.
Tell me.
Why do yo&amp;i accuse me? You don't know what you're doing  you don't understand  nobody understands 
Tormented  ? Why?
I couldn't rest  I couldn't sleep. All I could see was Teresa Delgado's body  broken mangled. I saw it day and night. It was waiting everywhere I turned.
Then you found the leopard 
I didn't want to kill, but I had to. I heard her in the cemetery  talking to the man in the auto 
Oh, Mr. Galbraith! I'm so glad you're here.
Good evening.
You know all about these things   and I've lived here all my life  and I still don't know what the Procession means.
It's to remind people of the great tragedy that took place here so that they won't ever forget that a peaceful village of Indians was wiped out by the Conquistadores, back in the 17th Century... A band of monks buried the dead and prayed for them and did penance for their deaths that's what this procession is supposed to be.
Oh, that's so interesting!
Well, now that you've had your history lesson, I think I'll get on to the museum.
It may sound like music to her  I can do better with my teeth in a cold Shower. Click click click.
She's a local. When the dudes come out to New Mexico, they went to wallow in Latin glamour. This is a bad town for blondes.
Yes. So I've noticed. Jerry's noticed  He'll come up with something.
You think be's pretty nice, don't you?
Why not? He's a good press agent and a good friend. Besides, we've shared a lot of headaches 
You're lucky. I wish he'd front page for me.
Maybe. For three years I've sung in rats' nests, while Jerry pounded his feet off and his brains out  trying to get me a real chance. We're due for a little luck!
I mean you being a star and me being just a cigarette girl.
I know. I know. You've got the talent. I got the breaks.
And if you've got cold feet honey, Ill take over for you. That red dress of yours fits just perfect on me.
I bet you try on my coffin some day  I hope it "fits just perfect."
Oh, dear  I don't know what I'm going to do without you  honestly, I don't 
Hey I'm over here.
I'll miss you too, honey 
He will be waiting...
You must say that you went to take some of the roses to your father's grave...
At four. He will be there at four.
Pedro is waiting for me, too.
Rosita I have wondered 
What, senorita?
When you are going to see Pedro, does your heart beat until you tremble?
Love is different for different people.
I suppose so. I suppose it will be different for us, too when everyone knows. Then we will be just like other people. But these last weeks will always be our secret a lovely secret to remember all our lives.
It's a blackcard and bad card, but not the card of the cat  not the card of fourfooted things.
I saw Teresa. Maybe I was the last to see her except perhaps her Mamacita and her little brother. I was going past 
) They buried Teresa today and they were hunting the leopard again  out in the country this time. But they didn't get him.
They're fools. Why don't they let Charlie HowCome hunt it alone. He's an Indian.
All men are fools. They like to make a big show  shout and hunt 
What did they say before the bad card came up?
You'll meet a rich man and he will give, you money.
You and your cards. Meet a rich man! I look for them with money. What rich man hasn't money. And for what was I born if it wasn't for money? You're not telling me anything.
Watch and see, A day or a week  but certainly this month  you will have money from a man and then
Well  did he give you a lot of money?
Who?
The elderly man I told you about.
Cut.
What are you doing that for?
Something black  something on its way to you 
Go on 
Don't look at it!
Let me see it 
The death card  
Maybe not  cards mean different things different times 
See you tomorrow 
Tomorrow 
Can't make a buck without my leopard. I tell you, Mr. Manning, you gotta find that cat for me  or pay up.
Look, Charlie, just be patient. I'll fix everything. You don't want that cat, anyway. It killed two people.
No, sir. That girl in the cemetery? My cat didn't kill that girl. I told you cats don't go around looking for trouble. If that cat's alive, it's out in the country hiding under a bush, starving to death.
You really think so, Charlie?
That cat ain't mean. I feed him out of my own hand for six years. Why don't he kill me? At night in the truck, I let him out of the cage. When I am falling asleep I hear him walking back and forth. I go to sleep. He don't hurt me.
They all say the cat killed this second girl.
They don't say it to me.
I'd like one of them to say it to you, Charlie. I'd like to have you hear his side of it his reasons. Want to hear them?
Sure.
Let's get in your truck.
Where's that man?
Up at the museum.
Sure, I like my leopards
But he admitted quick enough that it killed the first girl.
Sure!
No. I'm serious about this.
Charlie wasn't drunk last night.
Yes, I was drunk, Mr. Manning.
I'm sick.
Here have a cigarette. He was only kidding.
No, he wasn't kidding. I'm sick. Claw women? Hurt little girls? No!
I don't know. I want to see Robles.
What do you want to see him for?
I want him to lock me up.
Look, Charlie, you didn't do it, and you know you didn't.
I don't know. I want him to lock me up.
Two hundred and fifty dollars you owe met
You found the leopard!
What's left of him.
Where? Where did you find it?
North  in an arroyo, Shot through the head  maybe week ago. No good, skin, everything gone 
What arroyo  how did you get to it 
And here is Three Tree Mesa  and here I go out of the big arroyo 
That's the place: I remember  My feet were so darn sore, I couldn't make it  and Galbraith went on up to the head of the canyon by himself 
Here is something that should interest Charlie  a stone leopard head made by his ancestors some six hundred years ago. They used it in ceremonies. The jaguar  in fact all the cat family  were considered the personification of force and violence in their religious rites.
It don't look like a leopard to me.
Well, Charlie, just why do you think your cat didn't kill the Contreras girl?
You know  not scared enough. Nothing to scare it.
If a leopard didn't do it, who did?
Oh, I'm only exploring your theory. Let's take a step further. You drink, don't you, Charlie?
I drink.
And when you drink, you get drunk.
Then what do you do?
I sleep it off.
But between the time you leave the cant ma and fall into bed in that old truck of yours, what happens, Charlie?
I don't know.
That's just it, Charlie. That's what I'm driving at. You could do anything in that time.
Now I know I didn't hurt nobody when I was drunk  
Of course, not, Charlie. I never thought you did.
And my leopard   maybe he hurt the first girl  but no more.
Is someone with you  can I get you a drink?
Why not?
My soninlaw. What do you think of him?
That depends. How much money has he?
When you marry champagne, CloClo, you can't trade it in for beer. You're stuck with it.
I can't understand that fancy talk. You mean I'm a golddigger? Sure, I'm a golddigger  why not?
Why not  if you like it  if that's what you really want.
Maybe I should just forget all about money   forget about mamma and the kids and the rent, huh  marry some poor dope like  oh, like Carlos Dominguez   and get fat and 
Who's Carlos Domwhat'shisname?
Nobody. A boy who works in a grocery.
Good looking?
Mmmyes.
Nice fellow?
Is he in love with you?
I don't know 
Why do you ask so many questions? What difference does it make how Carlos and I feel? Feeling does not buy clothes and houses!
Drink your beer and don't get so excited.
This is for "mama and the kids."
What about me?
You get your money from your husband.
So, what's our first plan of attack Santa?
While I was in Taiwan negotiating the solution to our labor problems, I came across a factory that illegally manufactures the most addictive, Jewish pride weakening substance on the planet. I bought the entire plant.
What should I charge?
Oh, that's the beauty of it. These are free samples.
So what's in the boxes? Heroin? Cocaine?
Worse.
Bootleg copies of the Frank Capra classic, 'It's A Wonderful Life.'
That's some cold shit.
So, how was I?
It was good. Very chilling, but you still got all the points across that we talked about.
I wasn't too over the top?
No, it was the perfect level.
Thanks. Oh, did I tell you. I picked up that new KC and the Sunshine Band record that you recommended. You were right, it is good.
You okay?
No. I'm airsick you asshole! Where the hell did these reindeer learn to fly?
I don't know. Why don't you ask them sir.
Get off of me you cripple!
What are we gonna do? He's got us on the ropes.
What's going on? Why'd he stop?
Maybe he ran out of ammo.
Take a look.
Well, he's kinda just resting in the corner with his girlfriend.
Resting?
What day is it?
It's Friday.
You want me to be nice to him for no apparent reason whatsoever, buy him clothing he'll never wear, and for just one day of the year pretend to forgive him for all the horrible things he did to me as a young boy when my mommy wasn't looking?
No dipshit, I want you to kill him.
Sorry folks, I don't do couples.
If you keep your mouth shut and come with me, you won't get hurt.
Excuse me? Do I know you, friend? Take a look around you. Do you even know who I am?
Let me guess, you're the goy who stole Hanukkah.
The Hebrew Hammer! You're alive.
What's your shpiel, Santa?
Whoa, whoa there. C'mon Mordechai, is this any way to treat an old family friend? Let's cut out all the unpleasantness. I admit, I went way overboard with the whole Hanukkah thing. Let me make it up to you. How about a peace offering? Girls.
What are you doing?
I'm just calming the kiddies. There's no need to worry about Santa. He's just having a peaceful, adult conversation with his nice Jewish friend, The Hebrew Hammer.
Hey everybody. How's it hangin'?
In fact, he's just informed me that he personally plans on cancelling Christmas this year.
Where's my girlfriend Santa?
I don't have to tell you anything Hammer! You're gonna have to kill me before I tell you!
I shlepped all the way to the North Pole for this? I come to fight you, and you don't even put out anything to nosh on? What kind of arch nemesis are you?
Hah! Jewish guilt. Well, it won't work on me Hammer. I'm too strong for it.
So Mordechai, tell me, what brings your bad self down to the KLF?
I'm back on the job for the JDL. You hear about that crazy white boy who took over as Santa?
Oh, most definitely. Got the brothers here in full alert mode.
Actually, I...I don't. What does that mean?
Oh. It means that Santa's gonna fuck Hanukkah's shit up.
Not if I can help it. You got any information for me?
You watch your back Hammer. Hanukkah might just be his first move. For all we know Kwanzaa could be next. There's a lot of brothers counting on you. If you fail...
Okay, look. I'm going to work really, really hard on this one. But, please stop with the pressure. I'm already tense as it is.
It's cool. It's cool. Aveenooh Shalom Alechem, brother.
What's wrong with him?
He's still working out some identity issues.
It's gonna be tough, but the back entrance looks like our best bet.
I wanted to ask you, how were you able to pinpoint the exact location of Santa's workshop? We've been trying to gain that piece of surveillance for years.
Cool. What's it do?
Now this might get a bit technical, but try and stay with me. Using a highly sophisticated connection of other computators, called the Internet, I can access surveillance maps, villian biographical information, and even sports scores with a few simple keystrokes of this electronic typewriter.
Man, that's far out! Hey, the Jets won!
But wait, there's more. With a few swift clicks of this handcomputer interface, commonly referred to as a mouse, I can download illicit pornographic material and even send it along to a friend via a cyber postal route known as email.
Porno? You're tellin' me that you can get porno on that thing?
Oh yeah. Take a look.
What are you doing?
Just praying to god that we don't kill ourselves going over this wall.
Wait! Before we enter, you need to know that my research has determined that Santa's compound is wired with the XP 2000 stereo type alarm system.
A stereo type alarm system?
Take a look.
How do we bypass it?
The alarm will trigger if the system detects any NonW.A.S.P. tendencies inside the building. For example, if you were to dribble a basketball, or eat watermelon, or use the word dawg...that is, spelled with an aw as opposed to the letter o...within the confines of this workshop, the alarm would sound.
Listen cat, I'll have you know that I hate the taste of watermelon and am a terrible basketball player.
Well that's good news for us. It means the system is outdated. This should be easy. C'mon.
What are you doing?
Offscreen gunfire. That Jewish Atomic Clock stuff ate up a lot of our budget.
Hammer, you alright?
Everything's kosher. Watch him for me.
Happy Hanukkah Tikva.
Happy Hanukkah Morty.
Okay, what's the information?
She said to remind you that you're having Shabat dinner by her tomorrow and also to remind you to bring the Manischewitz.
Anything else?
Yeah, I'm going to be out of the office from 1:30 to 3:00 on Sunday. I have a terrible yeast infection and I need to see my gynecologist.
But we're not open on Sundays.
I understand that. I just thought that you might want to know.
I'll be in my office.
Shabat Shalom mama. I brought some Manischewitz. The black label.
I can see. And you also brought a nice girl to come eat by us.
Mordechai. Do you love your mother?
Mom, stop with this already. Of course I love you. You're my mother.
Mom, I have a real job. I do good things for this community. I help people.
When I play bridge with all the girls, everyone has what to talk about with their sons. They show pictures. Their sons are lawyers and doctors and Rabbis. Why can't I show a picture?
So don't show a picture.
You know my friend Maureen? Her son, the investment banker? He paid for her entire retirement in Boca Raton. What a mench he is. Instead of schleping to save Hanukkah, god forbid you should go back to business school and get an MBA. Maybe then you could send me to Boca, too.
I don't want to argue with you. Let's just eat in peace.
No. No. We're gonna argue. And you know what mom? I'm going to save Hanukkah just to spite you. And when my face is all over the television. When your friends are opening their Hanukkah gifts next year, don't mention it to them, okay? I wouldn't want you to have to show my picture.
Do what you must.
Let's let your tuchus breathe.
Mom, why don't you put that cat out of its misery?
...and the opportunity to help my brothers and sisters in the Jewish community.
Well I'm just glad you're safe Bubba Shaina, and eating by your mother for Shabos.
...and their children will all be able to eat latkes and spin dreidels, and light the menorah with the knowl...
...So you saved Hanukkah Mr. Big Shot. I mean, let's be honest Mordechai, it isn't even one of the high holidays.
Well I have news for you mom. It is good enough...I'm good enough and I won't leave here until I hear you tell me...
Mazel Tov!
Hello Mazel Tov! A boojee boojee boojee boo...
...I'm not finished yet, mom.
Mom! We're eating!
What a good poop you made in your diaper Mazel Tov! That's right! Mommy loves you! Such a good boy you are!
Mr. Jefferson Carver?
Please, call me Mordechai.
From the way she carried herself I could tell she'd been around the block a few times...
Sorry I'm late. Traffic was a pisher, and I've been circling the block for the past half hour looking for parking. What are you listening to?
Client notes. Sorry. What can I do for you?
My name is Esther. Chief Bloomenbergensteinenthal from the Jewish Defense League desperately needs to speak with you.
How is old Chief Bloomenbergensteinenthal? Is he still shtooping every girl he can get his hands on?
Actually, his days of marital infidelity have long since past. Now he just shtoops my mother exclusively.
Your mother? Oh. Whoops.
Mordechai, Santa Claus has been rubbed out by his son Damian. The man's a demon. There's no telling what this new anti semitic psycho Santa is capable of.
I'm sorry to hear about Santa. He was a good friend, but my days...
Oy vey, I'm stuffed.
I don't think I could eat another latke if you paid me.
Any sign of Santa?
He must be behind that curtain. Relax. We're undercover. We need to give off the appearance of calm. You see Esther, the trick to undercover work is to try and blend in. Act as a Gentile would.
What are we going to do? We're at least an hour from the front.
C'mon follow me.
That got annoying fairly quickly.
Yeah, no kidding.
So, now what?
Now we wait for Santa to make his next move.
Want to get a drink?
Sure. Why not.
What was that!?
I said, do you come here often!?
What!?
I said, yeah, about once a week!
Oh!
Sorry. I'm better with men.
Maybe we should try a different kind of dancing.
You mean like disco dancing or doing the funky chicke...Oh. I get it.
Mordechai?
Yes Esther.
I want you to talk dirty to me.
Oh. Okay.
I want for our children to go to private schools and take music lessons. Little Abraham will go to Stanford for college, Batya will go Ivy League, maybe Vassar.
Keep going.
Afterwards they'll make the decision as to whether or not they'd like to continue their religious studies in Israel. Because, hey, after all we'll have practiced the highly effective assertive democratic style of child rearing, sprinkled with a healthy dose of liberalism.
Also, on a daily basis, I want you to tell me what to do, where to do it, and how I should live my life.
Kiss me you Semitic stud!
Your mother was right. You do work too hard.
Oh, she said that, did she? What else did Mommy Dearest have to say?
When did you guys have this conversation? When I was in the bathroom? What else did she have to say?
Relax Morty, I think your mom is wonderful. She cares so much about you. Get this, while you were gone she said she'd help me get you to work with the JDL if I'd come eat by you once in awhile. Like I needed any incentive to be with you. She's so...
Oh my god. She's become my pimp. And she's whoring her bitchson out to the highest bidder.
No. It's not like that. You're being completely neurotic. I was just playing along...
We do!
I'm sorry Esther, I just don't think we can see each other romantically anymore.
What are you doing here?
Mordechai, I love you. I couldn't let you do this alone.
I love you too. I'm sorry about freaking out yesterday. I was wrong.
I forgive you.
Esther!
Mordechai!
Esther!
Mordechai!
You two know each other?
We go to the same temple.
So. Do you have a name?
It's Esther.
From the story of Purim. Well, now that we're all acquainted, let's sit down and start the Sabbath.
You like my Mordechai, yes?
He's...he's very nice. But Mrs. Carver, the fate of Hanukkah rests solely in his hands. Please, you have to help me.
Hanukkah, Shmanukkah. It isn't even one of the high holidays. What concerns me more is that my boychick is almost thirty, and has yet to settle down with a nice Jewish girl. I'll make you a deal. I'll help you with your little Hanukkah problem if you help me with my Mordechai.
What do you want me to do?
He works too much. God forbid he should have a nice Jewish girl come eat by him once in a while. Take his mind off his work. Maybe a blowjob here and there.
Well, for starters, we're going to honeymoon in Boca for a week. And then, when we get back, Morty's been talking about taking a stable, good paying job as a consultant for the JDL.
Well, I couldn't be happier for the both of you.
Alright Mordechai, now that we're alone I just want to say that I'm not happy about this. I don't want a repeat of that incident in the West Bank.
I got the job done didn't I? I did what I had to do.
A settlement completely demolished, ten smashed army jeeps, four dead Arabs. G dash D damn it, Hammer! You think you're above the Ten Commandments? Just find Santa Claus and bring him back to us. No heroics, got it?
Hey, it's your Bar Mitzvah. I'm just readin' the Torah portion.
I guess I could be chalant about it, but then again I'm not even sure if that's a word. Listen Chief, we could stand around arguing all day, but I gotta case to crack.
What's your first move?
I'm gonna pay a visit to the K.L.F. See if they've got the 411 on Santa's location. I'll check in with you when I know more.
Chief, it's me. Listen carefully. I need for the Worldwide Jewish Media Conspiracy to mass produce video copies of every Hollywood movie ever made featuring a positive Jewish protagonist as its lead.
You mean you want us to make copies of Yentl, Fiddler On The Roof, and Chaim Potok's The Chosen?
That'll work. Get them out to the Jewish community stat. We got an epidemic on our hands.
It was a trap. I'm back at square one.
Well, then I've got good news for you. We just got word that he'll be making an appearance at the Mall Of America today. I'm sending Esther to meet you there at once.
Good thinking. We'll disguise ourselves as a Gentile couple to pass undetected. Now that he thinks I'm dead, this should be a piece of homentashen.
One last thing Hammer. You take care of yourself. The...
Mordechai. Thank god you're here.
What's up?
About an hour ago, we received this transmission from the North Pole.
Looks like I got a plane to catch.
Take Esther with you, you'll need the backup.
No way, it's too dangerous. Besides, my days of hooking are over.
So why the long face?
It's Esther. Santa's got her.
My Esther! Oh Mordechai.
Please. Will you help me?
I love her sir. If I don't help you, I won't be able to make her my wife. Mohammed Ali Paula Abdul Rahim has agreed to come with me to the North Pole on a rescue mission.
There won't be any need for that sir.
Hammer, the fate of my daughter rests solely in your hands.
I know sir. I won't let you down.
Who... Who is that?
Mayol... Jacques Mayol.
That's the experiment? Dumping a guy into a frozen lake?
... The truck fell into a very deep crevasse. We weren't able to save the equipment.
I'll have to talk to the driver.
In the spring when he melts!
My dear, science is a cruel mistress.
But... how is he going to breathe?
He isn't going to breathe.
He's in the fluoroscope now. Listen to his heart. Impressive, huh? The flow of blood is concentrated in the brain and doesn't even feed the limbs anymore. It's a phenomena that has only been observed with dolphins... until now.
How long can he stay down? Without breathing?
It depends. He should come up soon. Unless he's decided to stay for the night.
Why is he doing this?
For one thing, it's his job... as for the rest of it, I wish I knew.
Shouldn't somebody take him a blanket or something?
Coffee might be nice.
Will he understand Spanish?
His mother's an American. He spent half of his life in the states. I'd try English if I were you.
Okay, listen, just get the custom's office to send me a copy as fast as possible. We can't send you new equipment until our file is complete. Okay?
Okay, okay. You'll have it by the end of the week, how's that?
You've made me a happy insurance person.
Then, goodbye.
Wait! Professor...?
... Yes?
I'll go see how he's doing.
Let him sleep.
What are they for?
They're paramedics. They wait at 180 feet.
If there was a problem, they could do something right?
Of course, that's what they're for.
... And those?
Those are the divers who go down 300 to 330 feet. They dive with a Heliumoxygen mixture. At that depth, compressed air is too dangerous because it contains carbon dioxide.
What's that little air bottle on the machine?
That isn't for the divers actually. It's for the balloon. It blows up and pulls the diver up like an elevator. Without it, with the pressure at the bottom, the diver would just stay pinned to the sea bed.
But doesn't Jacques dive without anything?
Yes... It's magic.
I changed the lock you son of a bitch!
... Sally?
You're back! Hello. We were burgled.
Again?
They got the new T.V.
... And the new stereo.
I hope they remembered to take the microwave this time?
Yep. How was your trip...? Help me clean up, okay?
You called the police?
They're going to send detectives.
Well?
What?
How was your trip?
Nice... Very interesting... Great! ... I guess.
Okay... Who'd you meet?
It's his heartbeat.
Oh Jesus...! I'll make some coffee. They left the stove.
I thought you said he was Peruvian?
Haven't you been listening?
... Since eight o'clock last night...! You're in love.
Don't be a jerk. There's no such thing as love at first sight.
... And if we repaint the walls, we'll need new curtains, you put the painters on you Visa and I'll do the curtains on American Express... for the couch there's Bloomingdales... or are you still over your limit?
Way past it.
Does that have a hidden meaning?
No. I'm just depressed.
You look it too. You haven't been working out, you haven't been taking your vitamins! You haven't been drinking your herbs, you haven't been...
I know, I know! I'm a terrible person... It's... I'm so damn, damn sad.
What is it honey... the frenchy?
Do you think I should have stayed? Don't you think maybe I should have stayed? I've been a jerk, right? I should have stayed! I was supposed to be in love... I was in love! I am in love, why did I act like a bitch? He went swimming. All the man did was go swimming! I must be crazy. It was too good to be true.
Vitamins, exercise, herb tea... and see a doctor, will ya?
You shouldn't dive everyday, Papa.
Then you shouldn't eat everyday, Jacques.
Hey! Have you ever seen a mermaid?
No.
Why don't you ask me?
What?
Where I saw the mermaids?! Why don't you ever ask any question? I'm always the one asking the question! We're sitting here like two stones and I'm taking to myself. Ask me something, Goddamnit!
Assassin!
Uncle Louis, this is my friend Johana.
Did you buy the cassettes? The Wagner, the Berlioz?
I brought Johana to meet you.
Are you crazy? I have no use for a woman! Since my accident.
No, no. Johana is visiting me.
Where are you from, Henrietta?
Johana... New York.
What kind of name is that? To be named after a city?
He doesn't hear too well.
Uncle Louis!
No, no. It's true. When I was in New York, oh boy! Before my accident, you understand?
Good. That way I'll see more of you... Where are you going to stay?
Well... here.
In my apartment?
It's my apartment.
Liar! Thief! Torturer! When you were an orphan I nursed you at my breast.
Uncle Louis, we have a guest!
I'm going to put a lock on the telephone. Did you bring the cassettes?
Uncle Louis, you remember Enzo's mother Signora Molinari from Amorgos?
The whale! How could I forget? Always was something fishy about that woman!
What were Italians doing living in Greece anyway?
Louis, we were French!
That's different! What's the matter with you?
Mayol... Mayol... No reservation.
... Are you sure?
Positive, Sir.
This is the hotel San Domenico?
Yes Sir, and it has been so for 127 years.
Yes, but... So, you haven't got a room left?
No Sir, the hotel is full because of the Diving championship.
Ah?!
I recognize you.
We saw each other a little while ago.
In the lake?
No... in the hut.
Please, have a seat.
Thank you. I wouldn't want to interrupt anything.
But what brought you to Sicily?
I was doing an insurance investigation in Palermo. I work for an insurance company. So, I decided to take a few days off. I don't know this island at all. It really is gorgeous.
No, no. You'll like it. It's superb.
... Okay. I'll try.
Thanks for helping with the bag. It looks great!
I thought it was a nice place. Isn't it?
I'm being a pain in the ass. It's beautiful here.
You're going to be very busy these days aren't you?
I don't know... why?
Just because... I would have liked to visit the town... See the coast... I don't know anybody... Expect for you.
Yes... Maybe... I don't know. I don't like competitions... It ruins the fun. Don't you think?
I guess... But you know... I'm American and I've mostly been taught to be competitive... There's always pleasure of being the best?
Maybe on earth there is one... but not when you dive... You see, to dive deep into the sea, for no reason... just to do it. It's a feeling... I don't know how to say this... Voluptuous?
I thought you'd be at the dinner.
It's too loud for me.
You look adorable.
Thank you...
... Especially the sneakers.
Please move slowly, you're rocking the boat.
Lucky I was there to save you.
You jumped in?
Only to help the medics, I assure you.
My wallet.
No. I want to show you. Is it ruined?
Well, water isn't exactly the best thing for pictures... Not even for pictures of dolphins...
Give it to me.
Just checking up on your family. I guess I was drunker than I thought and the idea of going back to my hotel in a wet dress... Well...
I'm glad you stayed. Thank you.
I'd better get back now.
You... You wouldn't want to spend the day with me?
... No?
No? Huh? Yes, of course!!
How can you tell it's a female?
... The way she moves.
She's not like the others. She can't stand to be away from the sea.
How do you know that?
I don't know, I just feel it.
Can I come watch you dive tomorrow?
Uh... Yes, of course!
Jacques, you set a world record.
I did?
Aren't you happy? Don't you feel proud...? I feel proud and all I did was watch.
I'm going back home.
Why?
Because one shouldn't fall in love with creatures from the sea.
I'm not from the sea... I don't understand what you're talking about.
Yes you do. You know exactly what I'm talking about. You're afraid I want to hold onto you, and I do, but you're not ready... at least not for me.
But it's not true, I feel good with you... It feels right...
Hello?
It's me... Johana.
How are you?
I got fired.
... That's funny... I had this job with Enzo... we got fired too.
So have I. ... Hello?
I'm still here.
Well, then, talk to me some more.
... It's hard you know. You're so far away and I don't know what else to say.
Then, tell me a story.
Uh... Ah! A story?
Do you know how it is? Do you know what you're supposed to do to meet a mermaid?
No... tell me.
You go down to the bottom of the sea, where the water isn't even blue anymore, where the sky is only a memory... and you float there, quietly, quietly and stay there... and you decide that you will die for them... Only then do they start coming out. They come and greet you and they judge the love you have for them... If it's sincere. If it's pure... They will be with you and take you away forever.
Hello?
It's me again.
I'm being a pain, huh?
... Not at all.
You sure?
Absolutely positive.
Okay. In that case... I'm at the airport in Nice.
Why did you take me to the hotel, if you live here.
You'll understand.
Bonjour Monsieur... Louis.
Uncle Louis. He's a 75 year old amazing guy, isn't he?
I'm very pleased to meet you, Uncle Louis.
And you?
I didn't dive.
You'll try again tomorrow?
I don't know... it didn't feel right. I'm going to bed. I'm tired.
What?
... Nothing.
What are you doing?
I'm putting you on the coin... Your essence... That way you'll always be with me when I dive.
Jacques...?
You go back, I'll walk.
What's wrong?
It's nothing. Just the long trip. I'm a little jetlagged.
You want to lie down for a while?
No, I'll be fine. Can you just hand me a glass of water?
... When you dive... with that machine... What does it feel like?
... The feeling of slipping without falling... The hardest is once you are at the bottom.
Why?
Because you have to find a good reason to come back up again... And I always have a hard time finding one.
You've got to tell me what happened?
I saw how it has to be.
Jacques? I'm pregnant.
That's good... that's wonderful. It's wonderful for you.
You are the father.
Promise me one thing.
Anything.
Promise you won't forget me.
Don't you have a heater?
Yeah... Sure... Is this your first trip to Peru?
Does anybody live to make a second?
A drink to warm up?
Yes, thank you. Intravenous if possible.
Tea... or whiskey?
... both. Did I just see a man in a red suit and goggles?
Would it be out of place to ask what he's doing?
Who?
The guy in the Halloween suit!
Well, if it isn't the little Frenchman! How is the little Frenchman?
Fine!
You don't mind if I go instead, do you?
No...
If you did mind, you'd tell me, wouldn't you?
Jacques, my friend, how are you?
Enzo...
That's good. You never would have recognized me, huh? Check out the suit! Looking good, no? You know I'm the world champion?
Yes, I know.
I dove 315 feet!
Great!
They say I'm like Lazarus. You know, the guy who was raised from the dead?!
Why?
Because I'm sure you're dying to beat me.
I don't want to be in any competition... I dive because I like to, not to beat a record... don't you have to be very mad at somebody to want to beat him?
No. All you need is to want to be the best.
You're the best, Enzo!
That's too easy! Every time I beat a record there's always some dumbshit asking me: "D'you know that French guy, Mayol? He's supposed to be very good! Too bad he doesn't compete." So, you're going to come with me to Taormina! First, because you're my friend and second, because you don't have one reason to keep on spoiling my pleasure. ... I'll see you there...
I remember. Hi Roberto!
What room have you got?
I don't have one.
You don't have a room? Paolo? What did I just hear? I personally called you to reserve a room for my good friend Jacques Mayol and you treat him like a stranger?!
It's okay, Enzo. I'll go somewhere else.
Not only is Jacques Mayol a very special friend, but he happens to be one of the best divers in the world! And you're throwing him out! Are you crazy, or what? Stupido!
Enzo drop it, I'll find something.
... So, after all these years, you must have lots of questions to ask. Am I right?
Yes, of course. Lots of questions.
Well, what are they?
I'm sorry... I don't know how to ask the questions.
That's good.
How do you make a living? Your experiments, does it pay well?
It's okay.
... You married?
No.
Me neither, 'cause of my Mother. She's a curse, my Mamma, a tornado. Stubborn as a mule! I was engaged... for a week. After that, Mamma was so mad, I tell you, pasta was bouncing off the walls.
So, not married. Well, good for you. You play the field, like me. A girl in every port, huh?
Exactly, I mean, after all, we're men!
Damn right! That's what I tell them when people say you've turned into a fish.
People say that?
Forget it. I was joking.
No, no!
Not at all!
You're staying at the hotel?
Enzo?
What?
Your mother?
Ahi, ahi, cazzo! Ma mamia! Where...? God, she'll kill me... ... if she catches me eating pasta in a restaurant.
Madame...
... And his friend, Johana...
C'mon, you two... Jacques, we have to get ready for the ceremony tonight. We have a new world champion.
I'm a little tired, I don't know if...
Get in the car!
No.
Then, it's very chic. Avanti!
Why?
... For the mermaids.
Today at lunch, you asked me if I had any questions.
Ah ha. You finally want to know about women.
Why? Are they what's most important?
No... It depends... Sometimes they are... What, exactly do you want to know?
... Everything.
Everything about what?
Well... about everything.
Why?
If we don't... I'm going to beat you.
Two years younger than you.
As I said, second of all you're too skinny. You've got tiny lungs. I still don't understand how you can dive without getting sick.
The size of the lungs has nothing to do with it!
Look at me. These aren't lungs. These are... Tanks. How long can you hold your breath?
Tell me, why don't you go and get your medal?
Because pasta should be eaten "Al Dente". So the trinket will just have to wait a bit.
No, I have to ask you a favor... You're the only one who'll understand.
... I'm listening.
Hey! Will you slow down! When did you learn how to drive?
Driving isn't the problem, it's remembering the right road.
Good night.
You don't need a stretcher to take her with you. You know that, don't you?
What?
The dolphins aren't the only ones who don't feel very good sometimes.
Here... Here...
What is it?
Little presents, nothing much... I knew it, I just knew it! Look here!
You still collect them?
Yes.
You don't have that one, do you?
No. Thank you. It's really beautiful.
Oh it's nothing. I knew it. I told Roberto "He's very good that little Frenchman, very good". I lost my title but I won a watch!
Can I come in?
No problem, I enjoy talking in my sleep.
He doesn't like us.
So what!? His job is to hand out the paychecks. And he does that very well, let me tell you.
... I was seventeen, I loved her so much I tried to die for her. Two years later I couldn't even remember her name! Let me tell you, time erases everything!
I don't want to erase anything.
You'd rather think about it and make yourself miserable?
... Yes.
I give you this. You're stubborn... Dumb, but stubborn.
Thank you.
Anybody can have a bad day!
I've had many... when the sea doesn't want you.
It's never the sea! It's Roberto, Mamma, that stupid actress... Oh shit! Jacques, what do you know?
Enzo, Enzo! Congratulations!
Thank you, thank you very much!
That's good.
Enzo, don't be angry. I was lucky... that's all.
... How long was I asleep?
Long enough to die. Listen, if you really want to die, that's your problem, but don't do it under my nose, okay?
I'm concentrating.
We can't dive anymore. They want to cancel the competition for a while.
It's not safe, they say. The doctors say it isn't possible to go deeper and live. Free diving is over as a sport.
You say that because you have the title!
No! I would never cheat you.
Well that's very nice of you.
You were right.
... I was right about what?
... It is much better down there. It's a better place.
... Push me back in the water...
I can't.
Jacques, take me back down... Please.
Plenty of women everywhere right?
Smoking is absolutely forbidden.
It isn't lit yet.
You shouldn't even carry cigarettes on board!
Listen we're not supposed to piss either but that doesn't stop you from carrying "it" on board?!
The rules are the rules.
... What's your name again?
Noireuter.
And where did you say you were from?
I didn't say... Brussels!
What's with the voice?
It's nothing. It's just the helium, because of the air pressure.
And... does the voice come back?
For others, yes... For you, who knows?
Try speaking to me?
Is that alcohol? Are you out of your mind? Alcohol is strictly forbidden.
Hey! D'you have any other complaints? Just make a list and we'll stick it on the porthole! Okay?
Roberto? How long?
Six seconds.
Enzo, what are you going to do with the money?
Have the car painted.
Santini will do that for 25 dollars!
Then tell him to wax it too.
Enzo, really. What are you going to get?
A rosary for Mama, a dress for
Yes?
Find the Frenchman. Find me Mayol.
What about the shoes?
Very chic. Anyway, you don't have anything else, do you?
Enzo, wake up!
Eh? Si! Avanti!
The medics are looking all over for you.
I'm meditating, can't you see? Jacques does two hours of yoga before going down. I can take a five minute nap, can't I?
Where did you get that?
"That"! This is not a "that"...
Is he here?
He's training.
How did it happen?
The company asked me to extract everything I could from the wreck; so the divers were trying to get at the engine... and then the boat turned over... in the current... and... look, I fucked up! Can you help?
How many are, down there?
Ten thousand.
Lira?
Dollars.
You're going to hold me up at a time like this?
In my village, we have a saying: when the wind blows, the flags of all nations flap in the same direction.
What does that mean?
I tell you she's mine!
Hello!
You know each other?
Yes.
Enzo Molinari.
This is a great pleasure.
Johana Cross, pleased to meet you. Well! Isn't this a coincidence. I really wasn't expecting this... All the way out here. It's incredible!
I wish, but it's full. They recommended a pension in town. They say that all of Taormina is full. What's going on here?
It's the Free Diving World Championship. I am by the way world champion!
A spaghetti del mare for the super dedicated traveling insurance agent.
I think I'll have a coffee.
Where did you two meet?
In a lake.
I might have known. As I was telling you earlier, I'm the world champion free diver.
Congratulations.
Some people say it's the most virile sport in the world. One has to admit that when you see those men diving head first in that deep blue sea, all muscles contracted in one super human effort...
A new world record! That's great! It gives me something to beat tomorrow! You ever been to Tahiti?
No.
I'll take you there. We'll live in the sun. You'll cook fresh fish and we'll make love under the coconut trees.
You forgot the Hula!
Yes, of course, I'll do the Hula!
You'll be lovely, but no thanks. Jacques, would you do a native dance for me?
He looks strange, doesn't he? Like a baby that just learned to walk.
Have you known him long?
Forever. We used to live on the same island in Greece, when we were kids.
What was he like, when he was little?
Little. Very little. And skinny, very skinny too. That is compared to me.
I get it, Enzo you were a superior child.
Exactly! What is it Johana? You're so crazy about him, you don't see the truth?!
And just where are you from?
Italy!
Huh? Well listen to him! Do you hear that?
No.
He looks me in the eye like some fuckin' gold fish, and says: "I'm going to beat you".
... That's what he's here for, isn't he?
Listen to her! "That's what he's here for"! He's here to loose, that's what he's here for. First of all, I'm unbeatable. Second, how old are you?
Tonight we're having a little party among ourselves. 8 o'clock in my suite?
Okay.
... It's easy. You go down. You come up. ... Right, Johana?
Congratulations, Enzo.
Don't you agree, Jacques?
And the lights! Running lights, stealing stretchers...! You'll have us in jail.
Enzo, stop bitching, will you?
Well, good night, then...
You going to sleep here, all by yourself?
Yes...
... It's a comfortable place.
Sinister is what I'd call it...! Ours is so much cheerful! Why don't you come and stay with me... There's plenty of room in my suite.
The Mamma's there too.
Yes, the Mamma is is there.
Good night Enzo, Good night Jacques.
Is it a poem?
No, it's the recipe for spaghetti "Frutti del mare". You see I was right in getting you out here. You're a world champion, my friend!
Jacques! Johana!
Enzo!
Okay, now we have a good five minutes to have a nice peaceful talk.
What are you doing here?
Checking out the competition.
Enzo, why do you guys do this?
What else is there?
You know what I'm talking about.
You risk your life when you cross the street.
Damn it! Why won't you give me a straight answer, for once?!
Because you'd laugh.
I won't, I swear.
I dive in search of God. If I go deep enough I'm going to find him.
A little... You think it's the same for Jacques?
No. Jacques is a creature of the sea. He isn't meant to live on earth, among us... You should know this, Johana.
He can learn. He is learning.
You really think so? Did you tell him you were pregnant?
How do you know that?
You told Bonita, but you didn't tell him, right?
... Not yet.
Don't.
Why?
Because he won't understand and it will just hurt you... Jacques has been put on earth by complete mistake. And he's only waiting for one thing: that some God up there will turn him into a fish! How long has that moron been down there?
Five minutes and fifty seconds.
That idiot!
Is he alright? What happened?
The fool was asleep! If I weren't around, he'd already be dead!!! Is that who you want to live with?
This is good work... unfortunately it's incomplete. Could you eat a sandwich 40 floors above the street.
What kind?
Johana, am I boring you?
Sorry. Of course not, definitely not... well, maybe a little. What did you say?
I said that the file is incomplete.
Did the driver really freeze?
Like a popsicle. They're keeping him on a stick until spring.
My God! I'm glad I didn't go.
... So am I.
Listen, I just found out we've got real problems in Sicily!
What d'you mean?
The mafia! La Cosa Nostra!
What's happened??
The documents are forged.
No!
Yes! The notary is a phony. He has the same signature as the contractor!
It can't be true!
We have to send somebody over there immediately! If we prove the forgery we can cancel the policy. We'll be off the hook. There's a flight to Rome in two hours and from there its just a short hop to Sicily.
I'll send Cardoza, he'll be able to...
I tried him, he can't go. His son is being Bar Mitzvohed tomorrow... I'll go, boss.
I thought it was Spanish that you spoke?
Italian is practically the same thing.
Good afternoon.
I came to make a clean breast of everything... the whole business.
Yes. Of course. Very wise.
Remember when I went to Italy and canceled the policy on the new stadium. Well, we weren't being cheated by the Mafia or anybody except maybe by me... ... Do they come for lunch everyday? I really went on my own business, to see a man that I happen to be in love with... and I'm glad I did it, but I'm sorry about the policy and I'll be happy to make up the money the company didn't get... of course just now I don't have... One million, four hundred and ten thousand dollars. But if you were to dock my salary, say, twenty dollars a week, in a few hundred years we'd be even... and I think this is where you fire me?
You're right. You're fired.
Will that interfere with my getting maternity leave? I'm pregnant.
The Italian, I presume?
No. He's French, he was just in Italy for the competition.
He seems to have won it.
Yes, isn't it wonderful? I'm so happy. I'll bet I'm the happiest pregnant fired person in the world!
You're going to live here permanently?
... Maybe, if Jacques will let me fix up the place a little.
He's shy, not like Enzo.
Yes. Not like Enzo.
I think, he's really nice... He's a funny guy... sometimes even very moving.
... I'm pregnant, Bonita!
Are you going to keep it?
Yes.
Does he know?
No.
Maybe you should talk to him about it.
I can't... I just don't know how to...
I was thinking of something kinda stupid last night. You know those women in the greek mythology that made love with the Gods. Take Leda for example, sleeping with Jupiter, who came to earth as a swan... Well, can you imagine Leda announcing to her swan "You're going to be a father, my little chickadee"?
But your man isn't quite a God!
Probably not, but I still don't have the nerve to tell him.
Well, you're going to have to tell him, sometime!
And you...? Do you love Enzo?
Very much, I think. But, there's going to be a problem.
You're leaving?
Yes... Could you please give this to Enzo.
Of course.
Bonita, you shouldn't be discouraged so easily.
I don't have the strength to fight off la Mamma... Anyway who wants to spend their whole life waiting at the end of a pier.
Did you tell him?
Not yet... I'm waiting for the right moment.
... You take care of yourself, Johana.
...You're saying that when he first appeared at your house, you had no idea he was Jewish....
None whatsoever. But I have to admit, I'm not terribly surprised.
What do you mean?
I think antisemitism today is largely a Jewish phenomenon. Wouldn't you agree?
In the Third Reich, weren't a number of highranking Nazis of Jewish origin?
Yes, and they were said to be the most virulent proponents of the Final Solution. Really, who but a Jew would want to kill Ilio Manzetti simply because he was Jewish? Who thinks about such things?
The papers are going to report tomorrow that your colleague, Curtis Zampf, has been a federal informant for the past two years. Do you believe that?
Curtis is always more complicated than he seems. Even now.
And so, on this, the most solemn day of the Jewish year, a former yeshiva student is being sought in connection with a monstrous hate crime that 
May He cause the light of His countenance to shine upon you and be gracious unto you....
Eat shit....
...May you be blessed in your going forth as you were in your coming....
EAT SHIT, ASSHOLES....
And let us say...
Oh, fuck you...
As you know, Cindy, thirteen is a mystical number in the Jewish faith. We believe that God has thirteen attributes...
We want you to help run it. Give speeches, lead seminars... Handle the fundraising.
Fundraising??
We think you'd be good at it.
I'm not an intellectual.... I mean, I read, but... Fundraising isn't what I...
Look, if you want to kill Jews on your free time, fine. We need you to raise money. Will you do that for us?
Do you have a suit? Let's get him one.... And a cell phone too. And if you insist on blowing up a synagogue, make it that big one on Fifth Avenue, would you?
Beth Shalom? It's Reform.
So what?
They're not that Jewish.
I don't care what they are. I know those people, and I don't like them. The rest are just a bunch of kikes, aren't they?
We tested the new bomb.
What?
We redesigned the timing mechanism. It can't possibly malfunction.
Danny, please. Just give your speech.... And nothing about Jews, okay?
Are you out of your mind?!
I was just trying to make a point. If 
Do you think I...
Danny, please, we don't want to know.
It's Friday....
Do I give a shit?
The Torah says not to light a fire on the Sabbath, because it's work, correct? But if alternating current's running through the wires every second of every day, and I throw a switch, send it here instead of there, how is that lighting a fire?
"Do chickens give milk?"
Exactly.
Who's this?
Dennis Leary.
Leary?
No.
Howard Stern.
Obviously.
Adam Sandler.
Funny?
Not like Mr. Dorfmann.
He was funny.
After your mother died, that's when you stopped going to shul. Doing your homework. Everything.
And that's when the Mets started to stink.
'Cause they got rid of Johnson. He knew how to deal with the assholes. Dallas Green, please...
Valentine...
There's some maple walnut in the freezer.
Linda says you're not supposed to have dairy.
Just a little... What's the difference?
And what did you do?
What are you trying to say?
What did you do while the sergeant was killing your son?
You can't say that....
The Nazi's killing his kid. He could've jumped the guy. He could've gouged his eyes out, grabbed the bayonet and gutted him.... What would you have done if they were killing your son?
SO THEY SHOT HIM! SO HE WAS DEAD. SO WHAT. HE'S WORSE THAN DEAD NOW. HE'S A PIECE OF SHIT...
Okay, that's it. You're going back to 
What do you think you should have done?
Where do you think you're going?
...We have nothing to learn from these people. They should learn from us.
Lie on your stomach and come up on your elbows.
Why me?
You want to kill a Jew. I already did.
Who'd you kill?
Four. But no one this important.
How did you know they were Jews?
I can tell....
How?
I was a Jew in a previous life.
Shoot him in the head. Always shoot a Jew in the head.
I'm a bad shot. I don't think I can 
Just get him in the crosshairs. With those shells, anywhere you hit him, it'll bounce around, rip his insides all up.
You missed on purpose.
I didn't. I told you, I can't 
What's that?
Jeez, it's been since, what, Kenny's wedding.
Yeah, uh... So how are you? What's going on?
I'm in the rabbinic program at JTS...
JTS...?
What about you? What are you doing? Something strange, I bet.
I'm in a kind of...underground...thing.
Are you an artist?
No, no... Not that kind of... underground. More a private... business. Private.
You remember Miriam....
Yeah, hey, how're you doing...
She's at Yale Law  interning with the district attorney... We're getting married next spring. In Israel.
Wow, that's uh...great...
Listen, Danny, you can't just barge in and 
Shut up...
Danny, listen, people expect me to daven; they don't want someone they don't know  leading their prayers.
Get out of my way.
Which was his room?
Number ten.
Where's Mrs. Moebius?
Her place is down the road. But she just comes out for weekends sometimes.
That was unbelievable what you did to Lucas. The guy's an animal.
You could do it.
Get out of here....
You look right through him. He's there, but there's something on the other side of him that you want. It's all you want. And whatever's in the way doesn't matter.... Then it's easy.
Which one were you aiming at?
The mother.
What is it?
Green dot  shotgun powder. For pipe bombs. A guy in a lumberyard gave it to me. A donation to the cause.
Shut up. Fuck you....
What...?
Open it up.
Here...
This will be a different kind of device.
That damn thing. You know how it made me look...?
I'm sorry, Danny. It won't happen again. I'm going to use a brandnew power cell. Plus we'll have a backup timer.
I've gotta kill some Jews, Kyle. I'm serious. I'm always talking about it. This time it's gotta happen.
It will.
What about Drake, did he ever show up?
No, it's weird, man. Nobody knows where he went.
That's all we've got left.
It'll be enough if we use it right. Okay, the service'll go about another hour. Say an hour for the janitors, then one more just to be safe... We'll go in at midnight.
Didn't you get anything?
I'm not hungry.... Come on, let's drive around.... We don't want to be spotted here.
Oh, what is this shit?
Keep driving. Don't slow down.
Christ...
Not too fast.
You said they didn't have night guards.
They don't. I checked twenty times.... Somebody must have talked.
Who even knew?
Mrs. Moebius.
Why? Why would she?
The Manzetti thing must have scared her. She thinks she'll get implicated.
So what do we do with the device?
Take a right on 59th... We'll put it someplace else.
Where?
I have an idea....
If I went back to the lumberyard, the guy'd give me all the dynamite I wanted. Untraceable, you wouldn't  need to...
No, it has to be tomorrow. You won't get this many of them in here for another year. It'll be fine.
It's not going to be fine. It's 
Just do it.
When do you want it to go off?
Seventhirty tomorrow evening.
So that's what? Nineteen thirty minutes...what time is it now...
Hello...?
Daniel Balint? My name's Guy Danielsen. I'm a reporter with the <i>New York Times</i>.
<i>New York Times</i>...?
I'm doing a piece on rightwing groups, post Oklahoma City. I hear you're an important figure in those circles. You have a lot of interesting ideas....
Who told you that?
Isn't it true?
No, it's...yeah, it's true, but... how'd you get this number?... No, not here... Maybe Sunday? There's a place off Queens Blvd. Near the courthouse...
Who knows what that is?
A Jewish prayer.
Can anybody imagine why I would say a Jewish prayer?
What are you doing here?
I just came to get some stuff. I'll be out in five minutes. He doesn't want me around.
He's going to die. He won't take his medicine. He eats dairy. He probably still smokes when I'm not around. I asked him to come live with us. Alex offered to share his room, unsolicited.... But he didn't want to be any trouble.
Then he couldn't be bitter about living alone.
Why deprive him of his greatest pleasure?
Ah, Jesus Christ, Danny, how can you wear that thing?... You know what it means? To your people...
They're not my people....
Tell it to Hitler.
Oh, he decides? Hitler's the chief rabbi now?...
Is this because of those kids who used to beat you up?
What kids?...
The Polacks? From Sacred Heart?
Nobody ever beat me up. Look, Linda, there're fifty reasons. Even if you knew them all, there'd be another fifty you didn't know.
Do you know them? I made him some noodles for dinner. You can heat them up and 
I've got to get back to the 
You can heat them up and eat with him.
What about chicken?
That's meat.
The Bible only says don't seethe a kid in its mother's milk. But chickens don't give milk.
Look, you want cheese, go someplace else.
But it's stupid, right? You admit it's stupid.
No, I don't admit it's stupid.
You can have chicken with eggs but not with milk. Why is that?
I'm not here to talk about religious law, if you don't like 
But you already talked about it: you said it's not stupid. Why isn't it stupid?
Steve...
Steve's going to explain it.
Lina Moebius. And you are...?
Daniel Balint.
Balint?
It's German.
What part of Germany are you people from?
From the Rhineland originally.
Are you with the FBI, Mr. Balint?... Or any other law enforcement agency?
I was going to ask you the same thing.
Without blood  a willingness to spill it  there's no real power, no authority.
Curtis is afraid you'll marginalize us.
We're already marginal. We are saying what no one else has the guts to say. Isn't that precisely our appeal?
So what Jew would you kill first?
Ilio Manzetti...former ambassador to France. Managing partner at Damon, Schwarzchild.
Do you feel you're making progress here?
You mean Ilio Manzetti?
Forget Manzetti.... Take on something simple. Something you can actually accomplish. Maybe he'd be more valuable in the city.
How have things been going?
Fine.
We want to talk to you about something.... We're about to launch an aboveground, intellectually serious fascist movement.
Hello...?
Lina... It's happening. Tonight.
What is happening?
Beth Shalom. Like you wanted.
Beth Shalom? What are you talking about? Who is this...?
Lina, you said if I was going to plant a bomb, I should 
How did you get the fucking number?
I want you to say kaddish for her. It's the only thing she asked from us....
I don't do that.
You do it on the inside....
Don't tell me what I 
...I want you to do it on the outside, too.
No!
Yes!
I always won.
The arguments, anyway.
Why did you come tonight? To see me?
To hear them read Torah.
I thought you hated Torah.
That doesn't mean I don't like hearing it.
Point out all the lies and fuckedup thinking.
You know the joke: a Jew's shipwrecked on a desert island. When they rescue him, they see he's built two synagogues. They say, for vhat do you need two synagogues? He says, vun to pray in, and vun I'd never set foot in so long as I live, so help me God. You pray in the one you'd never set foot in...and vice versa.
I can't help what I think.
This is me.
Tell me about Lina Moebius.
How did you...?
I work in the DA's office. You go to those meetings, half the people there are informants.
You mean the <i>Times</i> guy?
Which <i>Times</i> guy?
With the shoes... There was more than one?
You're telling me you killed him? You? Killed him? Bullshit. What kind of gun did you use?
A fortyfive.
It was a nine millimeter.
You're lying.
So are you... But they'll believe you.... Lina Moebius is saying the whole thing was your idea. That you proposed it in a meeting at her house. Ah, Jesus, Danny... What were you thinking? Are you glad Manzetti's dead? Do you really want to kill Jews? You want to kill me?
I was just talking. I  look, I can't help what I think.
All right, what if all along you were actually infiltrating the Nazis  to expose them....
But I wasn't.
And only talked about killing Manzetti to convince them you were an antiSemite. If you'd had any idea somebody would take it seriously, you never would have said it.
I can't say that.
Think about your father. Your sister.
The truth doesn't mean anything to you, does it?
Danny, I'm trying to  save you.
Fucking kike.
You shut up. Who do you think you are?
There's a bomb here. It's going to go off at seventhirty.
Is it okay if I record this?
No... Yeah, fine, go ahead... So what's this about? Is this about me?
I'm trying to figure out where the radical right is going to next....I thought you were the most interesting person at that meeting.
What about Curtis Zampf?
Curtis is a politician  and a bit of a hustler. He's not a thinker.
I agree.
The other night you said the modern world is a Jewish disease. Could you elaborate on that?
In the movement  the racialist movement  we believe there's a hierarchy of the races. Not just in IQ, but in the civilization, the art, the forms of government, the civilizations that each race produces... Why are you writing this down if you're recording it?
It helps me concentrate.... So does that mean you're a white supremacist?
What should I be, a white inferior ist? A multicultural Zulu egalitarian? Let me ask, where are your people from?
My mother's family is French, my father's was German, originally.
German. Mine, too. So who do you think's given more to the world, the Germans  Beethoven, Goethe, Nietzsche  or the entire continent of Africa? Ibos, Bantus, Mandingos...
Danny, what about the Jews?
The Jews are different.... Blacks are disgusting and inferior, but it's like criticizing a retarded child. The Jews are...a poison in the human well....
A poison...?
Let me give you an example.... Sexuality.
Sexuality??? What do you mean?
You ever fuck a Jewish girl?
What??!?
Did you ever fuck one, Guy?
What's that go to do with...I've gone out with a, with Jewish women. Why?
And? WHat did you notice?
Notice? Like what...?
Jewish girls like to give head, right?
I don't know. Is that right?
And Jewish men like to get it.
Everybody likes to, don't they?
Yes. It's very pleasurable. But the Jews are obsessed with it. You know why?
Why?
Because the Jew is essentially female.
Female...
Real men  white, Christian men  we fuck a woman. We make her come with our cocks. But the Jew doesn't like to penetrate and thrust  he can't assert himself that directly  so he resorts to perversions. Oral sex is technically a perversion, you know that, don't you? After a woman has been with a Jewish man, she never wants a normal partner again. A normal man.
Does that mean the Jew is the better lover?
You're not listening. He isn't better. He gives pleasure, but that's actually a weakness.
Danny, what makes you think you know all this?
Let's just say I've done due diligence.
So, fine, it's not that the Jew, the Jews own the media and the banks. It's that they're sexually corrupt.
The Jews clearly control the media and the banks. Investment banks, not the commercial ones. But the point is they carry out in those realms the same principles they display in sexuality. They undermine traditional life; they deracinate society.
Deracinate... Tear out the roots. A people  a real people  derives its genius from the land: the sun, the sea, the soil. This is how they know themselves. But the Jew doesn't have soil.
He has Israel.
Those aren't Jews.
Of course they're Jews.
Notice the Israelis: a fundamentally secular society. They no longer need Judaism because they have soil. The real Jew is a wanderer, a nomad. He has no roots, no attachments. So he "universalizes" everything. He can't hammer a nail, plow a field. He can only buy and sell, invest capital, manipulate markets. He takes the life of a people rooted in soil and turns it into a cosmopolitan culture based on books, ideas, numbers. This is his strength.... Take the great Jewish minds: Marx, Freud, Einstein. What have they given us: communism, infantile sexuality and the atom bomb. In a mere three centuries since these guys emerged from the ghettos of Europe, they've taken us from a world built on order and reason and hurled us into a chaos of class warfare, irrational urges and relativity, a world where the very existence of matter and meaning is in doubt. Why? Because it is the deepest impulse of the Jewish soul to unravel the very fabric of life until nothing is left but thread, nothing but nothingness. Nothingness without end...
Are all Jews the same?
Differences exist, of course, but they're irrelevant. For the Jew, his Jewishness dominates everything. Even the ones who renounce it, who hate it, who want to cut it out of their hearts a knife...can't escape. They're still just Jews.
What? Excuse me?... You're kidding, right?
Do you know Rabbi Stanley Nadelman? He used to be at Congregation Beth Elohim in Ozone Park...?
Who? How would I know him?
He says you were bar mitzvahed there, in March 1988.
You believe that? And you call yourself a reporter?
So you're saying it's not true.
Look at me. DO I look Jewish? Look...
Were you ever bar mitzvahed anywhere else?
Do you know who you're fucking with here?
That's what I'm trying to find out, Danny. Who am I fucking with here?
Listen to me....
Why would Nadelman lie?
To discredit me. Because I know who they are. Look, I thought I explained it to you. Those people can say or do anything. And they will. It's all narrative to them, it's... Are you going to print what this guy said?
Give me a reason not to.
It's slander. It's reckless disregard. I'll sue you and your fucking Jew paper.
Does that mean you deny what he says is true? Yes or no.
But if the Jews are strengthened by hate, wouldn't this "destruction" you speak of  by love or by any other means  in fact make them more powerful than they are already?
Yes. Infinitely more. They would become as God.
Did you kill Ilio Manzetti?
No.
Two days ago you addressed a Nazi rally. Last week you went to a Torah study group.
What were you, following me?
How do you reconcile the two?
I don't. Look, stay out of what you don't understand.
Explain it so I can.
You work for the <i>New York Times</i>. Your whole job in life is not to understand things like me.
I don't think you know what you are.
Yeah, and what are you? A <i>Times</i> man? A Presbyterian? Impotent? A prick?
Who killed Manzetti?
If I tell you, will you pull the story? Not write about me?
It's too late.... If I didn't, somebody else would. Yom Kippur starts at sundown. Will you go to synagogue?
Get the fuck away from me.
More cultural than political.
Obviously.
Decentralized, nonviolent, increasingly mainstream. We'll see antiabortion, antiimmigration groups form alliances with the gun lobby, Christian identity types, tax resisters and even some libertarians....
That would be a catastrophic mistake.
People hate Jews. Do you agree?
They used to. Today it's not an issue.
No, but deep down, beneath the "tolerance" they learn on television, nothing's changed. The very word makes their skin crawl. It isn't even hate, really. It's more the way we feel when a rat runs across the floor. We want to step on it. Crush it. We don't even know why. It's a physical reaction. Everyone feels it.
You wouldn't announce it?
I'd say nothing. After two or three, people will try to find a pattern. A reason.
But when it comes out, the public will be outraged. It will look like Germany all over again.
Isn't that what we want? Germany all over again? Only done right this time...
Totally. The family emigrated from Bulgaria when he was eleven.
How would you kill him?
I'd have to research it, study his routines, his security.... But ideally on a New York street at midday, using a smallcaliber automatic without a silencer.
...Insulting people who were in the camps. ...What's the point?
They're liars and cowards.
I'm sure they are. But what do we accomplish by pointing it out?
It's the truth....
Leo Strauss... I've got to go to Boston. I came to say goodbye.
What about Mrs. Moebius and...?
They left an hour ago. You mind some personal advice? Forget Carla. That's not the side your bread's buttered on. How soon can you get back to the city?
A week or so. There's something I want to do here first.
What's that? Okay. Surprise us...
We want to build bridges to certain positions in the political mainstream: works like <i>The Bell Curve</i>, <i>Sociobiology</i>, antiZionism, anti immigration, the communitarian issue.... We'll hold conferences: invite liberals, blacks, Jews. Chomsky, Cockburn, Stanley Crouch, Shahack....
I've been waiting all my life for something like this.
What about...Manzetti, the synagogues....
That doesn't seem to be happening, does it?
I've been stuck out in the country with those guys who just want to paint swastikas and heil Hitler. How am I supposed to 
...I thought we agreed, no anti Semitism...it's exactly what we're trying to put behind us.... Trash the blacks, fine; but...
Did you see how they reacted to him?
Yes, of course. But that only plays in this room, with people who aren't embarrassed to call themselves Nazis. If you want a modern fascism, you don't mention Jews.
It's a romantic movement, Curtis. It always has been.
Lina, the ThousandYear Reich barely lasted a decade.... Do you really want to go down that road again? In America of all places, where obedience and discipline are not exactly the national virtues...
An investment banking house.
He's Jewish? Manzetti?
Danny, the night we met, you said the name Ilio Manzetti. We were impressed. We were excited. But here it is September, and Mr. Manzetti is still walking around breathing the air.
We need intellectuals, we have enough thugs already.
I thought there were people here....
I'll go look....
Who's Eichmann?
Who's Eichmann?!!?
Shema yisrael adonai elohenu adonai echod.
What'd you say?
Nothing. Let's go....
Why are you taking that?
I'm stealing it.
Carla?... It's me, Danny...Danny Balint...? We met at that...[meeting at your house.]
Yeah, I remember.... Kill any Jews yet?
I didn't realize you cared.
I don't. I was just curious how full of shit you were.
Did you know that there was a <i>New York Times</i> reporter there that night?
Really, which one? I bet it was the guy with the Prada shoes.
I didn't notice his shoes.... Did your mother know he was there?
I doubt it. How did you find out?
He called me up. He wanted to talk to me about my ideas.
That's a much easier game.
Why don't you come visit, we'll have a rematch.
Have you read Toynbee? Spengler?
Nobody reads that stuff anymore.
Too difficult?
Too Christian. You know Jameson? Paul Virilio?
The point is, the modern world is a Jewish disease.
Disease? What disease?
Abstraction. They're obsessed with abstraction.
Which is what?
At first, no one will know why the victims are being killed.
You're not in school? What do you do?
I work at the Big Boy warehouse. In Queens. I drive a forklift.
Where'd you read all that stuff?
I just read it....
Why no silencer?
You want it to be an event.
"...<i>und die Worte zerfielen mir im Munde wie modrige Pilze</i>..."
"And the words fell apart in my mouth like moldering mushrooms..."
How come so many of the books are in Spanish?
They're my father's. He's from Argentina. My mother's family went there during the war. That's where they met.
Are they still together?
He's in a mental institution.... He's been there for ten years, off and on. Mostly on.
Is he a Nazi?
I guess. His parents are. He doesn't care about that.
What's he care about?
Killing himself.
You think people ever commit suicide out of happiness?
That's stupid. Why would they?
You're not like the others, are you?... Your friends.
Yes, I am. Basically I am.
I bet. He didn't realize that nobody who talks such a good game ever plays one.
You weren't complaining about my play last time.
Too many good players down here. I'm with one right now.
Oh, really?
Bigger and better.
Then how come you're talking to me?
Who's Linda?
Why won't you talk to me?
I'm talking to you right now. Who's Linda?
When can I see you?
You can't.
Your father??
He's at a home out here.
I'm coming to your room tonight.
No.
Where'd you get this?
I stole it. From a synagogue.
How come there's no punctuation?
That was a later invention, it's not in the scrolls.... Anyway, the Jews know where the sentences end. They know the whole thing by heart. Every word. Every letter.
Do you know it like that? By heart.
No.
But you can read it, the Hebrew.... Right?
What do you care?
'Cause I want to know.... What is this word? This one here...
Vayomer... And he said. It goes the other way.
Oh, yeah...
Vayomer adonai el Avram: lech lecha mayartzcha oomimohladtcha oom'bayt avaycha el haertez asher arecha...
What's it mean?
And God said to Avram, take yourself away from your land and from the place you were born and from your father's house into the land  a different land  and I will show you....
I want to learn to read it.
Why?
Know your enemy.... 'Cause it's a basic text of Western culture. I want to read it in the original. Okay?
Hebrew's very difficult. It would take years.
I'm good at languages.
Put something on. You're not supposed to be naked in front of it.
Why not?
They think it's the word of God, and it's holy, and the flesh isn't....
That's stupid.
Yeah, it's stupid. Put it on, or I won't teach you.
See, the Jews love to separate things: the holy from the profane, milk from meat, wool from linen, the Sabbath from the week, the Jew from the gentile.... As if one little scrap of this was going to completely contaminate that.
What assholes.
You can't curse in front of it either.
Who gets contaminated, the Jews or the gentiles?
Good question. Both. Aleph...
It looks a little like a swastika.
It's silent. It holds a place, takes a vowel. The vowels are little dots that go under the letters.
Where are they?
They don't put them in the Torah. I'll get you a chumash, they'll have them there...Bet...Gimel...Dalid...Hay... How come you're here instead of with Curtis? Besides the Hebrew lessons...
The sex is better.
Even though his dick is so big?
With you there's a tragic dimension.
Vuv...Zayin...Chet...Tet...
Payn tashchiton v'ashiytem...
V'asitem...
V'asitem lechem pessel tomonat. And make no graven image of the Lord, or the form of any figure, or of man or woman, or beast or fowl or fish or anything that looks like anything. Because He's not like anything. Not only can't you see Him or hear Him, you can't even think about Him. I mean, what's the difference between that and Him not existing?
No difference.
Christianity's silly, but at least there's something to believe in. Or not believe. Judaism there's nothing.
Nothing but nothingness...Judaism's not about belief.
What's it about?
About doing things. You light candles, say prayers, keep the Sabbath, visit the sick....
And belief follows?
No. Nothing follows. You don't do it because it's smart or stupid or it saves your soul. You're not saved. Nobody's saved. You do it because the Torah tells you do. You submit to the Torah.
Fuck that.
Don't curse in front of it.
Why should I submit?
You shouldn't.
You think I should just because there's no reason?
No, I think you shouldn't.
Judaism doesn't even need God. You have the Torah, the law. That's your fucking God.... The book's closed.
You're learning the Hebrew really fast.
I told you, I'm good at this.
Plus you have nothing else to do all day.
Oh, am I learning it faster than you did? Maybe I'm smarter.
What...? You think I'm Jewish?
It's all you talk about. Jewish, Jewish, Jewish. Nobody talks about it that much except the Jews.
Nazis talk about it all the time.
Do they?
The real Nazis. Hitler, Goebbels, they talked about Jews incessantly.... You ever read their diaries?...
Is that why you became a Nazi? So you could talk about Jews incessantly?
Believe me, Adolf Hitler couldn't possibly have hated the Jews as much as I do. Not in a billion years. You know why?
'Cause he wasn't a rabbi.
You want a punch in the mouth?
Okay... Why don't we light candles on Friday? Let's light candles.... And say the kaddish.
Kaddish is the prayer for the dead.
I mean kiddush. Let's say kiddush. And shave my head, fuck through a sheet, all that stuff... Come on, just for fun. To see what it's like...
You can't. Do you know how many people I've brought into...the movement...?
Lina, come here!
Come on, we can be like Eichmann. He studied Torah. He hated Jews.
Is it like Eichmann? Are we goofing?
I don't know. I just want to try it.
Shit... Did you talk to your mother today?
No. What are you looking for?
Nothing. Why are you doing this? I thought God didn't exist.
He commands it whether He exists or not... Look, we can fight him and be crushed. Or we can submit.
And be crushed.
Yeah, okay. But what if...what if... submitting...being crushed, being nothing, not mattering, what if that's the best feeling we can have?
Look, just light the candles with me. Then we'll eat. You have to eat.
You eat first, then you light. Once you light, it's Yom Kippur, which means you're fasting, so you can't...eat.
Miriam called, looking for you. She said you might come, so I...
You gotta get out of here.
You don't own this place.
You write that? Come work for me. You've got a lot to learn; I can teach it to you.
I have a job.
This? This is a joke. I'll give your group a thousand bucks.
You gave fifty thousand to that college magazine.
Fifty's an exaggeration. Anyway, that was a different moment. Things were possible that aren't now.
Actually, I think this moment has possibilities that 
Yeah, I read your piece. It's very smart. And very wrong.
Forget the Jewish stuff. It doesn't play anymore. There's only the market, now, and it doesn't care who you are.
People still need values, beliefs....
No, they don't. Not the smart ones. Look, I'll give you five grand if you can document your taxexempt status.... But when you fall off this horse, come see me. I can show you how to make a lot of money.
I don't care about money.
You will.
You're a Jew. Maybe you don't realize it, but you are.
Maybe I am. Maybe we're all Jews now. What's the difference?
What do you think you're doing?
Who the fuck are you?
Who am I?? Who are you, you schmucks, you can't even make a decent swastika.... Give me the paint. Give it to me.
Bring your friends.... We're not his friends.
Then I won't bring you....
What, do you like it here?
Read <i>Mein Kampf</i>? Hitler had all his best ideas in prison.
You coming?
We'll go to the country sometime, okay?
Do we have to listen to this shit?
Yes.
Why'd we have to leave so fast?
Oh, please...
Danny, it's true. There were no six million. At most, two hundred thousand Jews died in the camps. And the majority of them were from disease and 
Where did you read this? Robert Faurisson?
Yeah. He's a respected scholar. Even Noam Chomsky says he 
Billings, if Hitler didn't kill six million, why is he your hero?... Concentration camps all over Europe, and he only gets rid of a measly two hundred thousand.... He's a putz.
What do you care?
I don't, but...
Let's look at the fucking thing.
It's called the flame alphabet. It's supposed to be the word of God written in fire.
Fire...
The mystics tried to read the white spaces around the letters. They thought there was a whole alternative language hidden there, with secret, alternative meanings.
How come you know all this shit?
How come you don't know it? How can you say you hate the Jews when you don't know anything about 
Fuck you. I hate the Jews at least as much as you do.
No, you don't.... If you hated them, you'd study them, so you'd know why you hate them. You know what tefillin is? Tsitsis? Shotness? You know the kaddish from the kiddush? Eichmann? He went to Israel. He studied the Torah, the Talmud, the Mishnah, the whole bit. He hated Jews.
Yeah, but not on the letters.
Why the fuck not?
Just don't.
...So she takes the pants in back  where they try them on? And I think fuck it....
Are you shitting me?? Right in the store?
She's been giving me the eye. She's hot. So I wait till the owner goes up front....
Fucking Danny, man...
He's an asshole.
Didn't you see <i>Raiders of the Lost Ark</i>?
What??
That was an ark, man. That was a Torah. They fucked around with it, and the Torah melted their faces.
That's a movie, you moron.
Fine, go ahead. Touch the letters.
They only kill them when they love them?
What are you doing here, I thought you were a Nazi.
What's a fascist?
I rest my case. He's a Jewish Nazi. He always was.
Whereas Avi's a Zionist Nazi.
The Zionists aren't Nazis.
They're racist, they're militaristic, they act like bullyboys in the territories....
They don't have extermination camps.
They had Sabra and Shattila.
Read the early Zionists on European Jewry; they sound like Goebbels.
They sound like you.
The Nazis did everything the fhrer told them. You do everything the Torah tells you. Or the rebbe. Identical slave mentality.
But, Danny, if HaShem is everything, and we are nothing how are we to judge His actions?
We have free will and intelligence  which God allegedly gave us....
You think?! Based on what?
There's midrash supporting this. My father read a book by Shalom Spiegel that  Isaac actually died and was reborn.
No one follows that midrash.
I do; I follow it. But okay, say God provided the ram. So what? Once Abraham raised the knife, in his heart it was as if he'd killed him. He could never forget that. And neither could Isaac. Look at him: he's traumatized, he's a putz for the rest of his life. By the end he can't tell Jacob from Esau....
Watch your language....
I think the whole Jewish people were permanently scarred by what happened on Mt. Moriah, and we still live in terror....
And you, if you had come out of Egypt, you would have been destroyed in the desert with those who worshipped the Golden Calf.
Then let Him destroy me now. Let Him crush me like the conceited bully He is. Go ahead. Kill me. Here I am. Do it!!
We lost our key.
Where did you lose it?
Do you know the Kentucky friend mouse story?"
Woman bites chicken leg, turns out to be a mouse. Or a rat. It's an urban myth.
Exactly. Always happened to someone else.
So?
So there's an urban myth, well more of a rural myth, going around here at the moment. It's about a beach.
Uhhuh.
Bonsoir.
Eh  bonsoir.
Did you sleep well?
Not too bad.
I hope our noise did not keep you awake.
Hi.
Hi there. Here, take a look.
So from there to there?
We swim.
Swim?
Have you told someone?
No.
I think it's a bad idea to tell anyone.
Francoise 
Sshh. Etienne will be angry if I wake him. He thinks I waste film taking photographs of the sky.
I think so too.
One night I will get the perfect photograph.
You realize that in the eternity of space, there is a planet, just like this one, where you are photographing back towards us. You're photographing yourself.
Incredible.
There are infinite worlds out there, where anything that can happen does happen.
So on one you are rich, on another poor. On one you are a murderer, on another the victim.
Exactly.
Richard, you know something 
That is just the kind of pretentious bullshit that Englishmen and Americans always say to French girls so that they can sleep with them.
Sorry. I thought I was doing quite well.
It's just the sky, Richard.
Too far?
If it's too far, then we'll drown. But if we dont try then we'll never know.
He tried to borrow money from us.
What idiot would lend him money? It would disappear.
He said if we lent him money h would tell us about a secret beach.
It's on an island that no one get to.
But he has been there, off course.
It was ridiculous; all this at three o'clock in the morning.
We leave our rucksacks on this island and then we swim.
You can swim?
One kilometer
Two.
Richard?
Bonjour.
Good morning.
The noise? Don't worry. You're on holiday.
She means your neighbor. The Scotsman
Oh, that noise! Yes, he certainly did.
We moved rooms because of him.
It would be nice though, if there was a place like that. You know, that no one could get to.
Of course, but look; all these people. If that place existed, they'd all be there.
It's arranged. Tomorrow morning. Eight hundred bath.
Nice work.
There is one problem.
He will not take us to the island. It's in the National Park and it is forbidden to go there. But we are allowed to travel to this one to stay for one night.
That's the wrong one.
Yes, of course I can swim. How far do you think it is?
One or two kilometers.
Oh. Great. Not far at all. I don't like to be negative, but do you think we should let someone know where we're going?
Why?
We're going to swim "one or two kilometers" across open sea, from one uninhabited island to another. Something goes wrong. What then?
Richard, it's secret. That's the whole point.
Yeah, OK. Forget it. We won't tell anyone.
I don't know  I'm American.
So?
We think in miles, not kilometers.
So how many miles do you think it is?
I have no idea but it looks like a long way.
Everyone ok?
We're ok.
I think we're about half way.
Richard  I saw a fin!
What!
A fin!
A shark fin?
I don't know, just a fin. Over there. About a hundred meters.
Big?
Yes.
Well what the fuck do you expect me to do about it.
Nothing. I just thought you ought to know.
Well to be honest, Etienne, I would rather have not known about it.
I'm sorry.
A bit fucking late.
She is gone!
What happened?
She just went under the water. She was pulled under. Oh God, I don't see her.
Was there a shark? Did you see a shark?
What about Moliere?
Fuck off.
What are you doing in Thailand? Tourist?
Traveler.
You go to Patpong? See smoke from pussy, ping pong ball from pussy, razor blade from pussy; bird from pussy.
I don't think so.
Why not? Thai girls best in the world. Thai food best in the world. Thai dope best in the world.
I wouldn't know anything about that, sir.
Excuse me.
Yes?
I'm Daffy.
Richard. Hi.
Look, I'm sorry to bother you but I was wondering if you could help me out.
Help you out?
Yeah; just ten or fifteen dollars maybe.
I'm sorry, I don't think so.
I'm waiting on some money coming through. It's just that at the moment, you know, I'm short. They're going to chuck me out. On the street in Bangkok, that's bad.
I'm really sorry but I just arrived; I'm on a pretty tight budget myself. I just can't afford it.
Just five dollars, please.
I'll share something with you.
I'm sorry. I can't lend you any money.
If you could see your way to lending me some cash 
Here.
Thank you, sir. Thank you. I promise I will repay you.
Just take it, OK.
You. You're the guy that lent me the money.
Yeah, that's right. Now could you be quiet so I can get some sleep.
Ten dollars. I'll find a way to pay you back. How would you like to know About somewhere special? The perfect beach. Paradise. No one else knows about it. That's got to be worth something. What do you say?
Look I don't care about the money right now: I just want some sleep. So if you could be quiet 
Yea, OK. I will be, I will be, I promise.
Thanks.
Passport, please.
Oh.
What's the purpose of your visit here?
A friend of mine offered me a job here.
Where are you staying?
With him. Fifteen Stiffgasse.
His name?
Lime. Harry Lime.
Okay.
I thought he'd be here to meet me.
Oh, you did.
Not the sort of thing I should confess to a total stranger, but you have to break the rules sometimes. Humanity's duty.
Harry...
Two double whiskeys. Was wunschen sie?
I thought there was something funny about the whole thing.
Funny?
Something wrong.
Of course there was. Some ice for Mr. Martins.
That's all you meant?
What else?
Wasn't he at the police inquiry?
He didn't want to get involved.
Will we never teach these Austrians to be good citizens. It was his duty to give the evidence.
What else did he tell you?
That Harry was dead before you got him to that statue.
He probably knows a lot more than that. Somebody's lying.
Not necessarily.
No.
Joseph Harbin.
Joseph Harbin? No...no.
Third Man.
A novel, Mr. Martins?
Mr. Martins...
Not when I get interested.
...this time.
Yes.
Should I make it all fact?
Why no, Mr. Martins.
...Mr. Martins?
Never.
Speak English?
English?
Already gone.
Who?
Coffin?
Mr. Lime's. Accident...
Baron Kurtz.
Must be some mistake.
Excuse me!
Yes, sir.
Did you know Mr. Lime well?
Mr. Lime  yes.
You remember me? Upstairs...
Yes, yes, I remember you.
...Popescu...
und ich kann nicht alle kennen.
What does he say?
Sehen sie da gleich da unter. Da unten ist est passiert. Passiert  English.
What's he saying?
Happened...Yes happened right down there.
You saw it?
Not saw, heard...heard. I heard the brakes. Wham! And I got to the window and saw them carry the body to the other side of the er...er Joseph...that's Joseph Emperor Joseph Statue.
Why didn't they bring him in the house?
Could he have been conscious?
Conscious? Cas soll ich auch noch wissen?
Oh, er  oh...was he  was he still alive?
Er, alive? He couldn't have been alive, not with his head in the way it was.
I was told that he did not die at once.
Ah, er war gleich tot  I mean, sie war gleich tot  brauchen kein angst zu. Ein moment...Wart ein bissel...Wartein bissel. Fraulein Schmidt!
...give evidence.
Who else?
Kurtz.
Yes.
The Roumanian?
Yes.
And?
There was a third man  he didn't give evidence.
You don't mean that doctor?
No, no. He came late after they carried him to the Joseph Statue.
You gotta tell your story to the police.
Police? Why police? Das ist alles blodsum was sie da sangen. No, no. It is all nonsense; it was an accident.
You don't know it was an accident. You only saw a dead man and three men carry him.
Der ami macht mich noch ganz deppert. I should have listened to my wife. She said you were up to no good. Gossip.
Suppose I take...
Fer von mir aus gehen sie zur gansalt aber mich lassen sie aus mit der politzei.
Now, hold on.
Das hat man davon wenn man freundlich ist mit den auslandern...
I have no evidence. I saw nothing. I said nothing. It's not my business.
Well make it your business.
Yes, it is.
I am not a bad man.
Dr. Winkel?
Vinkel.
Vinkel...You've got quite a collection of ercollection.
Yes.
Martins.
Coming to the point, please.
Thank you.
I have guests waiting.
Find out?
Hear the details.
I can tell you very little. He was run over by a car. He was dead when I arrived.
Could he have been at all conscious?
I understand...
...he was. Yes, for a short time, while they carried him across the road.
In great pain?
Not necessarily.
Mr. Martins. Delighted to meet you. Come let's sit down here. Ober! Zwei. What would you like. Tea? Coffee?
Coffee.
Zwei zwartze.
It's wonderful how you keep the tension.
Tension? KURTZ Suspense.
You really liked it?
At the end of every chapter 
We came out of his place like this, and were walking this way. A friend of his called to him from over there. Harry went across and from up there came the truck. It was just about here.
Here?
...were of you.
What did he say?
...you know and all that.
But he said he died instantaneously.
Well, there was only you, and this friend of his. Who is he?
A Roumanian.
...you.
Only his doctor, Dr. Winkel.
Not necessarily. She'd probably want to help.
What's the good of another post mortem? Suppose you dig up something  well  discreditable to Harry?
Will you give me...
...your address?
I live in the Russian sector, but you'll find me at the Casanova Club every night. One has to work...
...the best way one can, you know.
What's the name of this girl?
Not yet.
But you will.
Mr. Popescu is here tonight.
The Roumanian?
Yes. The man who helped carry him.
Mr. Popescu  Mr. Martins.
How do you do.
Are you mad?
All right  I'm mad. I've seen a ghost...
Hello, Harry.
Well, well, they seem to've been giving you quite some busy time.
Listen...
Yes.
I want to talk to you.
Talk to me?...Of course...Come on...
Listen, Harry  I didn't believe that...
It's good to see you, Holly.
Hmm.
She's been arrested.
Tough...tough...Don't worry, old man, they won't hurt her.
What can I do, old man, I'm dead, aren't I?
You can help her.
Holly...
...exactly who did you tell about me? Hmm?
I told the police.
Unwise, Holly...
And  Anna...
Did the police believe you?
You don't care anything at all about Anna, do you?
Well, I've got quite a lot on my mind.
You wouldn't do anything.
What do you want me to do?
You can get somebody else...
Do you expect me to give myself up?
Why not?
It's far better thing that I do... Holly, you and I aren't heroes, the world doesn't make any heroes...
You've got plenty of contacts.
Outside of your stories...I've got to be careful.
I'm only safe in the Russian Zone... I'm safe as long as they can use me...
As long as they can use you?
I wish I could get rid of this thing.
You told them, didn't you?
Don't try to be a policeman, old man.
What did you expect me to be  part of your...
Part? You can have any part you want, so long as you don't interfere...I have never cut you out of anything yet.
I remember when they raided the gambling joint  you know a safe way out...
Sure...
Have you ever seen any of your victims?
Do you know, I don't ever feel comfortable on these sort of things...Victims?
...this way.
What do you want?
Mr. Crabbin.
What is it, Sergeant?
Mr. Holly Martins, sir.
Who?
The author. Thought you might be interested.
Never heard of him.
Oh, he's very goad, sir. I've read quite a few of his books.
Have you, Sergeant? Author  Martins. Thank you, Sergeant.
Striptease, sir.
Yes, Hindu dances, thank you, Sergeant. This is the first opportunity we've had of making an American author welcome.
Very popular, sir.
Very popular. Are you staying long?
...leaving tomorrow, sir.
Excuse me, have you got tooth...
You do!
Yes, Cultural reeducation Section Propaganda. Very important in a place like this. We do a little show each week. Last week we did "Hamlet" and the week before we had something...
Welcome?
I'll tell you what, Mr. Martins. On Wednesday night at our institute, we are having a little lecture on the contemporary novel...I thought perhaps you'd like to speak.
They wouldn't know me.
Nonsense. Your novels are very popular here. Aren't they, Sergeant?
How long can one stay here on this stage money?
Listen, Mr. Martins, if you'd agree to be our guest, we'd be delighted to have you.
Come upstairs a moment.
I know a very good dentist.
I don't need a dentist. Somebody hit me, that's all.
It was just a soldier. I was trying to punch his major in the eye.
No, a major, were you really?
Heard of Harry Lime?
I've heard of him, of course, but I didn't exactly know him.
I was going to stay with him, but he died Thursday.
Goodness, that's awkward.
Is that what you say to people after death? "Goodness that's awkward..."
...this lecture business, you'll put me up here a while?
Certainly.
Seems exciting.
It is, and I'm gunning just the same way for your Major Callaghan.
Oh, Mr. Martins, good evening.
Good evening Mr. Crabbin.
Hello  Mr. Martins, we tried to get you at your hotel. We have arranged that lecture for tomorrow.
What about?
On the modern novel  you remember what we arranged and we want you to talk on the Crisis of Faith.
What's that?
Oh, I thought you would know, you're a writer. Of course you do. Good night, old man.
Well, yes. I suppose that is what I meant to say.
Of course, of course, of course.
Zane Grey.
Oh, that is Mr. Martins' little joke, of course...
Get me Major Callaghan on the phone.
Oh, Mr. Martins...
...excuse me.
Please hurry up  just get him on the telephone.
Do you know his number?
No, I don't know...
...his number.
I'll look it up for you.
Well, look, is there a car here I can use?
Please be careful, sir. Up we come. Written anything lately?
Take him to Sacher's.
It's a military hotel.
I'm so glad to have met you, sir. I've read quite a few of your books.
Write her out a receipt, Paine. Give her a receipt for these letters too.
This way, miss.
Very good, sir.
You know, Paine's one of your devoted readers. He's promised...
...of Santa Fe."
I'd like to visit Texas one day, sir.
Shall I go over there, sir?
No, no. Leave them for a while.
Can you tell me whose...
Fellow called Lime.
My name is Calloway.
Martins.
You a friend of Lime's?
Yes.
Been here long?
No.
You've had a bit of a shock, haven't you? You could do with a drink.
Could you buy me one. I haven't got any Austrian kroners. Thanks.
Schmolka!
Back in school. Never so lonesome in my life till he showed up.
When did you see him last?
September '39.
See much of him before that?
Once in a while.
I'm afraid I've never heard of you. What's your name again?
Holly Martins.
No, sorry.
Did you ever hear of "The Lone Rider of Santa Fe?"
I can't say that I have.
"Death at the Double X Ranch"  Ra anch.
No.
Must have known I was broke. Even sent me an airplane ticket. It's a shame.
What?
Him dying like that.
Best thing that ever happened...
...to him.
What are you trying to say?
He was...
...policemen. I have to call them sheriffs.
Ever seen one?
Pin it on a...
...a cop. You're a real cop I suppose.
It wasn't petrol.
Why don't you catch a few murderers for a change?
Well, you could say that murder was part...
Listen, Callaghan.
Calloway  I'm English, not Irish.
...expense.
Going to find me the real criminal? It sounds like one of your stories.
What the devil?
Getting around, Martins.
Oh, pinning things on girls now.
And there was a third man there. I suppose that doesn't sound peculiar to you.
I'm not interested in whether a racketeer like Lime was killed by his friends or by accident. The only important thing is that he's dead.
Tactful too, aren't we, Callaghan?
Calloway.
Miss Schmidt.
You're not locking her up?
Get the next plane.
As soon as I get to the bottom of this, I'll get the next plane.
Death is at the bottom of everything, Martins. Leave death to the professionals.
Do you mind if I use that line in my next Western? You can't chuck me out, my papers are in order.
What do you want to see a doctor for, huh?
A bruised lip.
A parrot bit me.
Oh, stop behaving like a fool, Martins.
I'm only a little fool  I'm an amateur at it  you're a professional. You've been shaking your cap and bells all over town.
Well?
In Vienna...
Do you see what that means?
Are you too busy chasing a few tubes of penicillin to investigate a murder?
That is the racket Harry Lime organized.
Calloway, you haven't shown me one shred of evidence.
Next, Paine.
I would like a word with this orderly Harbin.
So would I.
Bring him in.
I can't. He disappeared...
...a week ago.
It's more like a mortuary than police headquarters.
...be responsible for you in the streets.
I'm not asking you to.
...in the morning.
Thank you. Excuse me.
I followed his shadow until suddenly...
Well?...
This is where he vanished.
I see.
I suppose you don't believe me.
No.
Look...I tell you, you don't think I'm blind, do you?
Yes. Where were you when you saw him first?
Fifty yards right down there.
Which side of the road?
I was on that side, the shadow was on that side, and no turnings on either side.
How about the doorway?
I tell you I heard him running ahead of me.
Yes, yes, yes, and then he vanished out there, I suppose with a puff of smoke and like a clap of...
It wouldn't work.
We'll never get him in the Russian zone.
Calloway, you expect too much. I know he deserves to hang, you proved your stuff. But twenty years is a long time  don't ask me to tie the rope.
Calloway!
Oh, there you are. Come in here, there isn't much time.
A girl of spirit.
She's right. It's none of my business.
Didn't I?
You all did.
Do you mind if I drop off somewhere on the way? I've got an appointment, won't take five minutes...
Of course.
Why don't you come in, too  you're a writer... Might interest you.
Paine lent me one of your books; "Oklahoma Kid," I think it was. Read a bit of it... Think it's pretty good. What made you take up this sort of thing? Been doing it for long?
All right, Calloway. You win.
I never knew there were snake charmers in Texas...
I said you win.
Win what?
I'll be your dumb decoy duck.
What time is it?
Two thirty.
Calloway, can't you do something about Anna?
I'll do what I can, if she'll let me.
Wait a minute  let me out.
Well, there's not much time.
One can't just leave  please.
Be sensible, Martins.
I haven't got a sensible name, Calloway.
What is it?
This is forgery. It is very clever.
We are interested in this case. Have you arrested the girl?
No, not yet.
Please keep this passport to yourself, until I make some inquiries, will you, Major?
Yes, of course.
Thank you.
...Austrian Police Headquarters.
Can I have that woman's passport?
Yes.
I was a friend of Harry Lime.
I would very much like to meet you, Baron. Come around.
Austrians aren't allowed in your hotel. Couldn't we meet at the Mozart cafe?
Where?
Just around the corner.
How will I know you?
I'll carry a copy of one of your books. Harry gave it to me.
Must you take those?
They'll be returned, miss.
They are  private  letters.
That's all right, miss, don't worry. We're used to it  like doctors.
There you are, miss, your receipt for the letters.
I don't want it.
Well, I've got it when you want it, miss.
Here we are. You'll be all right here, Miss.
I don't...
Thank you, you have been so kind. Anna moves down to stand CL of Paine.
Well, I'll be saying good night. Good night, Miss.
Goodbye.
...parents.
Yes.
Must you take those letters? CALLOWAY Yes, I'm afraid so.
They're Harry's.
That's the reason.
You won't learn anything from them. They are only love letters. There are not many of them.
They'll be returned to you, Miss Schmidt, as soon as they've been examined.
There's nothing in them.
Right. Sit down Miss Schmidt, we will send your letters and things back to you.
And my passport?
You know as much as I do, Miss Schmidt  you were intimate with Lime, weren't you?
We loved each other, do you mean that?
Do you know this man?
I have never seen him.
Joseph Harbin...
No.
He works in a military hospital.
No.
It's stupid to lie to me, Miss Schmidt. I'm in a position to help you.
In one of his letters he asked you to telephone  a good friend of his called Joseph. He gave you the number of the Casanova Club. That is where a lot of friends of Lime used to go.
It wasn't important.
You can help us.
What can I tell you but that you have got everything upside down.
Now then, Miss Schmidt, I'm not interested in your forged papers  that's purely a Russian case. When did you last see Lime?
Two weeks ago.
I want the truth, Miss Schmidt. We know he is alive.
It's true then?
Joseph Harbin's body was found in the coffin.
What did you say? I'm sorry...
I said another man was buried in his place.
Where's Harry?
That's what we want to find out.
I'm sorry  I don't seem able to understand anything you say. He's alive now this minute  he's doing something.
Miss Schmidt, we know he is somewhere across the canal in the Russian sector... You may as well help us. In a few minutes Colonel Brodsky will be questioning you about your papers. Tell me where Lime is.
I don't know.
If you help me, I am prepared to help you. ANNA Martins always said you were a fool...
Vienna is a closed city, Miss Schmidt, he can't get away.
Poor Harry, I wish he was dead, he would be safe from all of you then.
Good evening, Miss Schmidt. You remember me?
Of course.
I helped Harry fix her papers, Mr. Martins...
Cigarette, Miss Schmidt?
Thank you.
Keep the packet.
Nichts danke. Kein.
Entschuldigen sie. It was a terrible thing.
Thank you.
Sit down.
Thank you. I enjoyed the play very much.
You were awfully good.
Do you understand German?
No, no...oh...excuse me.
But I could follow it fine. Perhaps Harry told you about me. My name's Holly Martins.
No, he never told me about his friends. Would you like some tea?
Well, I saw you at the funeral.
I'm so sorry, I didn't notice much.
You were in love with him, weren't you?
I don't know. How can you know a thing like that afterwards. I don't know anything any more.
Oh, American, thank you. I like them.
I was talking to another friend of Harry's. A Baron Kurtz  do you know him?
No.
He has a little dog.
Oh, yes, yes.
Don't understand what Harry saw in a fellow like that.
That was the man that brought me some money when Harry died. He said Harry had been anxious at the last moment.
He said he remembered me too. Seems to show he wasn't in much pain.
Dr. Winkel told me that.
Dr. Winkel? Who is he?
The doctor Harry used to go to. He was passing just after it happened.
His own doctor?
Yes.
Were you at the inquest?
Yes. They said it wasn't the driver's fault. Harry often said what a careful driver he was.
He was Harry's driver?
Mmmm.
...at all.
I know. I wondered about it a hundred times, if it really was an accident.
I don't know. They didn't answer.
I was told there were only two men there.
You shouldn't get mixed up in this.
Well, if I do find out something, can I look you up again?
Why don't you leave this town  go home?
What's she talking about?
The police. They're searching my room. Sie mussen doch wissen.
Anything really wrong with your papers?
They're forged.
Why?
The Russians would claim me. I come from Czechoslovakia.
Oh, what was the name of that doctor? Harry's doctor?
Dr. Winkel.
Drink?
Whiskey.
Harry?
Yes. He moved his head, but the rest is good, isn't it?
Who are you looking for now?
Sssh. Don't. Don't, please.
Silly looking bunch.
The Porter is going to talk to us tonight.
Need we go through it all again?
Might as well I suppose. Are you busy?
Just another part I've got to learn.
Can I hear you?
In German?
I can try. Is it comedy, or tragedy?
Comedy. I don't play tragedy.
Do I...
Well you read this.
Gestern bein heurigen...
What's that?
"Ein hurigan"  I guess.
HEZT...
Oh, let me see. No, no that's not the cue. It means she has to sit down.
Tell me about him.
Tell you what?
When...what did you do?
Oh, we didn't make much sense. Drank too much. Once he tried...
...to steal my girl.
Where is she?
Oh, that was many years ago.
Tell me more.
Oh, it's very difficult. You know Harry...we didn't do...
...and buried him.
Anna.
Seemed like a good idea.
It's just what he used to say.
Well, I didn't learn that from him.
If we have to see the Porter we'd better go.
What's the hurry? Can't we talk quietly for a couple of minutes?
I thought you wanted...
A moment ago you said you didn't want to see the Porter.
We're both in it, Harry.
Holly.
I'm so sorry.
It's all right.
That's Harry's place, isn't it?
Yes.
Let's go away.
What's the matter?
Let's not get into any more trouble.
Wait here.
Sneak out the other way, and go back to your theatre. I'd better not see you again.
What are you going to do?
I wish I knew.
Be sensible  tell Major Calloway.
Wer ist da?
Me.
I thought you were going to go away. Aren't the police after you?
I don't know.
I'm going back home.
Why?
What happened to your hand?
A parrot...Let it go.
Have you seen Calloway?
Can you imagine a parrot nipping a man?
Have you?
...you know.
He told you, didn't he?
He's better dead. I know he was mixed up  but not like that.
I knew him for twenty years  at least I thought I knew him. I suppose he was laughing at fools like us all the time.
He liked to laugh.
Seventy pounds a tube. He wanted me to write for his great medical charity.
I'll put these flowers in water.
...and my lover. He was Harry.
Well, don't preach wisdom to me. You talk about him as if he had occasional bad manners.
...again.
There isn't enough for two laughs.
Are you going, too?
Oh...
...is there?
How did you know I would be here?
...Headquarters.
Have you been seeing Major Calloway again?
Harry.
I'm sorry.
What is on your mind? Why did you hide?
Hide? Can't a fellow have a drink?
Here, it will be cold on that train.
I shall be all right.
You send me a wire as soon as you arrive.
What is going to happen? Where is Harry?
He's safe in the Russian zone.
How do you know?
I saw him today.
Did he say anything about me  tell me?
Oh, the usual things...
There's something wrong. Did you tell Calloway about meeting Harry?
Of course I didn't tell Calloway.
Why should he help me like that? The Russians will only make trouble for him.
That's his headache.
His.
Oh, well.
Why are you lying?
We're getting you out of here, aren't we?
...quarrel?
If you want to sell your service, I'm not willing to be the price... I loved him. You loved him. What good have we done him. Look at yourself, they have names for faces like that.
...anyway?
From Kurtz. They have just been arrested. But Harry won't come, he's not a fool.
Ich weiss nicht.
Das mussen sie doch wissen. Ich meine ohne grund wird die politzei doch nicht ins Hans komme Fraulein Schmidt, ein schande...
Den leuten.
Ja, ja, ja.
Sayen sie ed our den Leuten damit sie es auch wissen.
Hier sind fruher Fursten ans unt eingeganger. Hier hat sogar ein Metternich verkehrt...
Give her some cigarettes.
Das worren nooh zeiten.
Warscheinlich ist der murder.
They think you did it.
How is she?
Pregnant. Thanks for asking.
Here he is.
Damn, man, I give up. Your partner tells you his wife's gonna have a baby, and all you care about is a coroner's report!
Breeders typically destroy albino pups, so this animal is truly unique.
Nicole Labetzki. Victim seven. Forensics found dog hair in her car, but they had a K9 unit at the scene and never had it checked.
After three years she remembers what the guy drove?
She remembers because it was her "dream truck." Wanted one just like it.
We proceed assuming she is.
Let's give old Carl a call. Tell him he's got company.
No. Can you get a man close?
We'll go back to his house, Pete. There's still a lot to do. Analyze the videos, track sales of the bleach, go through his records. Maybe he owns property somewhere.
They're in that fucking thing for forty hours, Gordon. Fouroh. He got Julia at seventhirty last night. You know what time it is now...?!
You sure you want to go through with this?
What else do we do?!
I don't know, Pete, but for god's sake... This is nuts. Do you really understand what they're going to do?
I don't have to.
Why jeopardize what we've already done? We caught the sonofabitch. Carl Stargher. That's going to be like Bundy, Gacy, Dahmer. A case that makes careers. But if we push our luck. If this is all bullshit and we come out smelling like it.
Tell you what. If this thing burns us, I take that heat. I give you permission to point your finger at me and say "It was all his idea."
That's not what I'm talking about, Pete. I'm talking about waking up and realizing this girl's gonna die.
Right here.
Next time, tell me, okay?
But you looked so cute. All sleepy...
Jesus Christ, man, you look like hell.
Considering where I've been...
You're bettin' the farm on something you saw after they pumped you full of god knowswhat kind of shit?
I saw her. Julia. Alive. I saw everything.
You might've seen Jimmy Hoffa dancing with Timothy Leary. I don't care.
Someone looking after her little girl?
Grandparents. Live over in Davis.
So?
Anne Vicksey didn't own a dog.
I need it.
Now?
Now.
The dog's an albino. He'd love an animal like that.
Gentlemen, I believe an albino dog is rare indeed.
The Phoenix office tested that hair thirty minutes ago. And we got the match.
It's his dog.
When did he lapse into the coma?
Sometime yesterday morning.
What about the legalities of this...?
Stargher is in custody. The functional equivalent of being under arrest. Normally, we'd Mirandize him, and if he didn't lawyer up, we'd interrogate him. But because of his condition, he doesn't have the capacity to waive those rights.
Catherine!
I'll get her...
When we got here, you just topped and pulled her out.
That was with Edward. She's accustomed to his world. Stargher's mind is unfamiliar territory. She's "lost." Someone has to go in. Remind her what's really happening. And get her out. Until then, she's at his mercy.
Into Stargher. Inside...
Yes.
I have done this, you know. Been inside.
No.
Nervous?
Absolutely.
I have to ask you some things... Are you taking any prescription drugs?
Prevacid. For my stomach.
Any psychiatric medication?
No.
What about narcotics?
No.
I know your partner's here, but it's very important that you're honest.
I am. I'm a pretty boring guy.
I doubt that.
Is she alright?
Yes. But you're going to sit down right now. I have to...
Agent Novak.
Dr. Kent.
You're looking well.
Thanks you. Six weeks off does a body good. I heard she got the approval to try the reversal with Edward.
That's a secret.
Federal Bureau of Investigation, ma'am. We know all, see all...
How's the patient.
Awaiting his arrival.
What about the cat?
Completely unaware.
Shouldn't we get a catheter in him?
They took care of that, thank you, Henry.
Not a gift. A highly evolved area in her cerebral cortex, that's all. A genetic fluke.
Catherine has a tremendous capacity for empathy. When we started, there were a number of test subjects  other therapists  who acted as "receivers." All they did was observe and report. Nothing more. But Catherine, she had the ability to feel what was happening. She understood. And the patient responded. Edward engaged her in dialogue, took her places, showed her things. He knew she cared.
Intravenous administration complete.
Initiating connection.
That's why we monitor the use of the drugs so closely. We don't want her getting to that degree of perceptual disorientation.
Pump in two liters of pure oxygen, please Henry.
I hate to admit it, but there's something perversely satisfying about this.
I think that's the whole point.
She changed the codes.
What's wrong?
It would take hours to reroute the system, and even if I did, I shouldn't.
Instead of going into his mind...
She's bringing Stargher into hers.
She the one from Santa Cruz?
Just graduated law school. Single mom. Had a twoyearold daughter.
Agent Cole.
I need you to find something in the basement...
Already there.
That hoist, with the winch...
Lattimer sold the hoist to a guy named Bainbridge who tired to build a machine works out near Delano. Bainbridge ends up in bankruptcy court and the state winds up with the land  it's just sitting there.
Delano?
Yep. And guess who they hired to seal up the place?
You're kidding me.
I never kid. My wife hates it. Says I'm too serious.
You liked him?
He's beautiful...
What now?
's broken.
Who says?
MockyLock.
Oh no... No you don't.
"MockyLock is the bogeyman. MockyLock wants me where I am."
I bet we can fix it.
What if he wasn't like this? What if he was "normal?" Conscious. How far would you go?
As far as I needed.
There's always a chance they'll confess.
Really? I don't work with violent cases, I work with children. But even a kid lies. They love it when they get you to believe something that isn't true. Don't you think Stargher would do the same?
Sometimes... Once they've been caught they feel a need for disclosure. They have so much they want to tell. But they've never had a sympathetic ear. They need someone to understand why. Stargher used to hide the bodies very carefully. It was part of the ritual. Some weren't found for weeks and any physical evidence had been meticulously wiped clean. But these last three... They were still in water  always in water  but Listen, he wasn't just careless. It went beyond that...
Okay. Let's assume he wanted you to find him, that some part of him hated what he was doing... Most likely, that part is dead. Schizophrenics with Whalen's Infraction sever all ties with the real world. I'm sorry, I really am.
I still don't understand why I can't do this... This isn't some "troubled kid" you're dealing with.
I realize that...
How hard could it be...?
This man is deeply disturbed, he...
You don't know the procedure.
I know him.
Edward Baines, I presume. Hi, Ed. I'm Pete.
Do you think that's funny?
No. Not at all. From what I understand, he knows I"m here, isn't that right?
I read about a woman in TExas who was in a coma for seven years. Every time her husband came to visit, her heart would beat faster. Isn't that something? I don't know what name scientists have for something like that...
It doesn't have much to do with science.
What then?
The soul. The spirit. Whatever you want to call it.
Ah, the part of us that can't be explained.
Agent Novak?
Peter, okay?
Do you feel there's a side of yourself you don't show people?
Absolutely. I suppose everyone does.
Just like we all have fantasies, right? Things only we know, that we don't share.
That's what therapists are for, right?
With Stargher I saw things...
What did you see?
A kingdom. His utopia. Life without consequence or restriction. He's not even Carl Stargher anymore. He's this... idealized version of himself who can do anything he pleases... Without fear. A horrible primitive ugly thing. I don't want to talk in here.
Why'd you bring him here?
You're the shrink, you tell me.
As soon as I met him, you knew I'd say yes. He makes Julia real for me.
You thought Stargher wanted to be caught.
I did, yeah.
You were right. There's a part of him that knows the truth. About what he did, about himself.
What about Julia?
This is going to sound terrible, but... I don't think she matters anymore. Not to him. He never finished her. The others...he was able to make them his.
You think you can do this, don't you?
He might tell me about Julia. The part of him that wants to help, that feels shame and remorse. Who wants to be redeemed.
This is Stargher we're talking about?
Not Stargher, not really. He's split himself right down the middle. Good/evil, right/wrong, merciful/cruel. A monster. And an innocent child. If I could reach the boy.
Whoa. Hold on. Aren't they the same guy?
Don't you feel there are different sides to every personality? Maybe even the worst of us is capable of one decent act. We're all human.
It's hard for me to see Stargher as human, capable of something like "remorse."
Then what is he?
Evil.
If you believe that.
Maybe this is a big fucking waste of time.
What happened to Charles Gish?
What happened?
What difference does it make...?
Tell me.
A child can experience abuse worse than Charlie's. And grow up to be someone who would never, ever hurt another living thing.
You're sure of that?
Yes. I am.
Remember, Julia Hickson is priority number one. Nothing else matters. Find out where she is.
Okay, okay...
Wait...
Like hell "wait."
He wants us to follow. The little boy...
Little boy?! That's him!
He brought you to me, didn't he? If you want Julia to live, trust me. Trust him.
Where the hell are we?
Carl, do you know? Like on a map...
COME ON!
I can't leave him!
That went well.
Give her a minute. Hello, Valentine.
You sure about this?
Absolutely. Abigail...
I heard Julia and John got married.
Yep. Eloped.
Good for them.
Well look at that.
I told you. You have to be optimistic. Believe in them...
So you say.
He's mine?
All yours. My boss says it's one of the strangest requests the Bureau's ever had.
He also says that until proven differently, Julia Hickson was found as a result of good oldfashioned detective work.
It doesn't matter...
I don't know. I think it does. You know, Catherine... If you ever want to talk about it. What happened to Stargher. That last time.
They're hungry.
I got it.
Thank you.
No problem.
No. Thank you.
Sing a song of sixpence...
A pocketful of rye...
Fourandtwenty blackbirds.
Did we go sailing?
Almost. MockyLock showed up.
"MockyLock is the bogeyman, MockyLock wants me where I am."
MockyLock is a pain in the ass.
He hates me.
Lucien Baines?
She adores you.
She thinks I can bring Edward back.
Someday you can. We all believe that...
We've been over this a dozen times. No.
Why not? Just once. A trial run. What harm could it do?
I don't want to find out.
Miriam...
Shush.
He creates the obstacles, he decides which games to play.
I've heard this argument before. It's not happening.
It could take years for me to get past the barriers he's created.
If we reverse the feed and bring Edward into your mind, it could be devastating for him. Imagine the shock of suddenly existing in a whole other world.
I do it all the time!
Yes, but, you're a willing participant. Picture Edward in a strange place, lost, frightened...
I'd be there for him.
And he might blame you for terrifying him. That one moment could erase all you've accomplished. And if that happened, the trust he has in you is gone.
Okay, okay...
You're sure? Any more nightmares?
No.
Good. We need you healthy and relaxed. You're going to eat well, meditate, exercise, and watch mindless television.
Yes mother.
I don't want you up all night reading Edward's case file of the nine millionth time. Balance, dear girl, is the key. Leave the work here.
Don't bring it home in this.
Okay.
Henry wants me to try this Vietnamese place he's wild about. Want to come?
I've got to feed my cat. Besides, I want to get to bed early.
That's my girl.
Sing a song of sixpence.
A pocketful of fucking rye. What's wrong?
Nothing.
Why did we stop?
The first... What? Six or seven times I went in. Remember what happened?
Disorientation, nausea, migraines, hallucinations, insomnia, paranoia.
Like a New Year's Day hangover.
He needs to be turned over.
This isn't your responsibility. Remember that. Don't let them use guilt as a tool. If you want to stop, say so.
I'll be fine.
She said convincingly.
Catherine? I'm about to start. If you want me to wait, or...
No. No.
Is it cold in here?
What happened?
...a pocketful of rye.
Four and twenty blackbirds...
Baked in a pie.
Damn him.
What's wrong?
Agent Novak. I didn't get a chance to clear him.
I refilled the Zyprexa and Atavan...
I don't need them anymore...
I know.
I'll come by tomorrow after work. With dinner.
Thanks Miriam. Say hi to Henry and...
...give a kiss to Edward.
Give a kiss to Edward.
We began to worry. Some of us have traveled so far, and you are the last to arrive.
I'm sorry. My grandson fell and broke his leg.
More concerns than that?
We've been forced to reassess our role in Colonization by new facts of biology which have presented themselves.
My god...
The geometry of mass infection presents certain conceptual reevaluations for us. About our place in their Colonization.
This isn't Colonization, it's spontaneous repopulation. All our work... if it's true, then they've been using us all along. We've been laboring under a lie!
We're going to tell them what we've found. What we've learned. Turn over a body infected with the gestating organism.
In hope of what? Learning that it's true?! That we are nothing more than digestives for the creation of a new race of alien lifeforms?!
Let me remind you who is the new race. And who is the old. What could be gained by withholding anything from them; By pretending to ignorance? Our knowledge may forestall their plans to step up the timetable. To start Colonization early.
And if it doesn't? By cooperating now we're but beggars to our demise! Our ignorance was in cooperating with the Colonists at all.
Cooperation is our only chance of saving ourselves.
Our vaccine may have no effect!
Well, without a cure for the virus, we're nothing more than digestives anyway.
We've allowed this man his freedom. His books have actually helped us to facilitate plausible denial. Has he outlived his usefulness to us?
No one believes Kurtzweil or his books. He's a toiler. A crank.
And Mulder?
You can't kill Mulder. He's got too much light on him.
You need not kill a man to destroy him.
No, you need only take away what is most precious to him.
Mr. Mulder.
What happened to Kurtzweil?
He's come and gone.
Where's Scully?
I have answers for you.
Is she alive?
Yes.
I'm quite prepared to tell you everything, though there isn't much you haven't guessed.
About the conspiracy?
I think of it as an agreement. A word your father liked to use.
I want to know where Scully is.
What is it?
A weak vaccine against the virus Agent Scully has been infected with. It must be administered with ninety six hours.
You're lying.
No. Though I have no way to prove otherwise. The virus is extraterrestrial. We know very little about it, except that it is the original inhabitant of this planet.
A virus?
A simple, unstoppable lifeform. What is a virus but a colonizing force that cannot be defeated? Living in a cave, underground, until it mutates. And attacks.
This is what you've been conspiring to conceal? A disease?
No! For God sake you've got it all backwards.
Aids, the ebola virus  on the evolutionary scale they are newborns. This virus walked the planet long before the dinosaurs.
What do you mean, walked?
Your aliens, Agent Mulder, your little green men, first landed here millions of years ago. Those that didn't leave have been laying dormant underground since the last Ice Age. In the form of an evolved pathogen. Waiting to be reconstituted when the alien race from which it came returns to colonize the planet. Using us as hosts. Against this we have no defense. Nothing but a weak vaccine. Do you see why it was kept secret? Why even the best men  men like your father  could not let the truth be known?
Until Dallas, we believed the virus was simply a controlling organism. That mass infection would make us a slave race.
That's why you bombed the building. The infected firemen, the boy 
Imagine our surprise when they began to gestate. My group has been working cooperatively with the alien colonists, facilitating their programs. To give us access to the virus. In false hope we might be able to secretly find a cure. So that we might save ourselves, as the last of the species. Your father wisely refused to believe this, choosing hope over selfishness. Hope is the only future he had: his children, The only future any of us have.
But... he sacrificed his own daughter. My sister, Samantha.
The only true survivors of the viral holocaust will be those immune to it: those vaccinated against it and human/alien hybrids. Your father arranged for your sister's abduction. He allowed her to be taken to an alien hybrid program, so that she would survive. As a clone. He had different hopes for you. That you would uncover the truth about the Project. That you would stop it. That you would fight the future.
Why are you telling me this?
I thought it only fair you should know, given how hard you've worked.
What happened to Kurtzweil?
As your father knew, things need to be sacrificed to the future.
Where is he?
Dr. Kurtzweil is in the trunk.
Let me out. Stop the car.
Driver.
You have precious little time. What I've given you the alien colonists have no idea exists. You hold in your hand the power to end the project.
How?
The vaccine you hold is the only defense against the virus. Its introduction into an alien environment may have the power to destroy the delicate plans we've so assiduously protected for the last fifty years. Or it may not.
What alien environment?
Find Agent Scully. Save her. Only her science can save the future.
What about you?
My life is over. Go.
Sit down, they're still talking to Agent Scully.
About what?
 They're asking her for a narrative. They want to know why she was in the wrong building.
She was with me.
You don't see what's going on here, do you? There's four hundred million dollars in damage to the city of Dallas. Lives have been lost. No suspects have been named. So the story being shaped is this could have been prevented. That the FBI didn't do its job.
And they want to blame us?
Agent Mulder  we both know that if you and Agent Scully hadn't taken the initiative to search the adjacent building, you could have multiplied the fatalities by a hundred 
But it's not the lives we saved. It's the lives we didn't.
 if it looks bad, it's bad for the FBI 
 if they want someone to blame, they can blame me. Agent Scully doesn't deserve this.
She's in there right now saying the same thing about you.
I breached protocol. I broke contact with the S.A.C. I ignored a primary tactical rule and left him alone with the device.
Agent Scully says it was she who ordered you out of the building. That you wanted to go back.
Agent Mulder 
Where's Scully?!
She's missing. We've been unable to locate her or the vehicle they took her in.
Whoever they are  this goes right back to Dallas  it goes right back to the bombing 
I know. Agent Scully reported your suspicions to OPR. On the basis of her report, I sent techs over to S.A.C. Michaud's apartment. They picked up PSTN residues on his personal effects consistent with the construction of the vending machine device in Dallas.
How deep does this go?
I don't know.
Are we being watched?
I'm not taking any chances.
What are you doing?
I've got to find Scully.
We're going to the morgue.
That area is currently off limits to anyone other than authorized medical personnel.
On whose orders?
General McAddie's.
General McAddie is who requested our coming here. We were awakened at three AM and told to get down here immediately.
I don't know anything about that.
Well, call General McAddie.
I don't have his number.
They can patch you in through the switchboard.
Why don't you go on ahead head and I'll confirm authorization.
Thank you.
Mulder  it's me 
Where are you, Scully?
I'm on the roof.
Did you find something?
No. I haven't.
What's wrong, Scully?
I've just climbed twelve floors. I'm hot and thirsty and I'm wondering, to be honest, what I'm doing here.
You're looking for a bomb.
I know that. But the threat was called in for the Federal Building across the street.
I think they have that covered.
Mulder... when a terrorist bomb threat is called in, the logical purpose of providing this information is to allow us to find the bomb. The rational object of terrorism is to promote terror. If you'd study model behavioral pattern in virtually every case where a threat has turned up an explosive device. If we don't act in accordance with that data  if you ignore it as we have done  the chances are great that if here actually is a bomb we might not find it. Lives could be lost 
Mulder...?
What happened to playing a hunch?
Jesus, Mulder...
The element of surprise, Scully. Random acts of unpredictability. If we fail to anticipate the unforeseen or expect the unexpected in a universe of infinite possibilities, we find ourselves at the mercy of anyone or anything that cannot be programmed, categorized or easily referenced...
I know you're bored in this assignment, but unconventional thinking is only going to get you into trouble now.
How's that?
You've got to quit looking for what isn't there. They've closed the XFiles. There's procedure to be followed here. Protocol.
What do you say we call in a bomb threat for Houston. I think it's free beer night at the Astrodome.
Now what?
It's locked?
Had you.
No you didn't.
Oh yeah. Had you big time.
I saw your face, Mulder. There was a moment of panic.
Panic? Have you ever seen me panic, Scully?
I just did. You're buying.
Alright... what'll it be: Coke, Pepsi? A saline IV?
Something sweet.
Scully...
Scully, I found the bomb.
Where are you, Mulder?
I'm in the vending room.
Scully, get somebody to open this door.
Nice try, Mulder.
Mulder? Tell me this is a joke.
Thirteen fifty nine, thirteen fifty eight, thirteen fifty seven...
...thirteen fifty six...
Hang on. I'm gonna get you out of there.
Scully?
Mulder. Move away from the door. We're coming through it.
Something's not right...
 Mulder! Get in the car!
Whatever you told them in there, you don't have to protect me.
All I told them was the truth.
They're trying to divide us on this, Scully. We can't let them.
They have divided us, Mulder. They're splitting us up.
What? What are you talking about?
I meet with the OPR day after tomorrow for remediation and reassignment...
Why?
I think you must have an idea. They cited a history of problems relating back to 1993.
They were the ones that put us together.
Because they wanted me to invalidate your work, your investigations into the paranormal. But I think this goes deeper than that.
This isn't about you, Scully. They're doing this to me.
They're not doing this, Mulder. I left behind a career in medicine because I thought I might make a difference at the FBI. When they recruited me they told me women made up nine percent of the bureau. I felt this was not an impediment, but an opportunity to distinguish myself. But it hasn't turned out that way. And now, if I were to be transferred to Omaha, or Wichita or some field office where I'm sure I could rise, it just doesn't hold the interest for me it once did. Not after what I've seen and done.
You're... quitting?
There's really no reason left for me to stay anymore. Maybe you should ask yourself if your heart's still in it, too.
I wake you?
No.
Why not? It's three AM.
Are you drunk, Mulder?
I was until about an hour ago.
Is that before or after you got the idea to come here?
What are you implying, Scully?
I thought you may have gotten drunk and decided to come here to talk me out of quitting.
Is that what you'd like me to do?
Go home, Mulder. It's late.
Get dressed, Scully.
Mulder  what are you doing?
Just get dressed. I'll explain on the way.
This is one of the firemen who died in Dallas?
According to this tag.
And you're looking for?
It's like jelly.
There's some kind of cellular breakdown. It's completely edematous.
And there's been no autopsy performed. There's no Y incision here; no internal exam.
You're telling me the cause of death on the report is false. That this man didn't die from an explosion, or from flying debris.
I don't know what killed this man. I'm not sure if anybody else could claim to either.
You knew this man didn't die at the bomb site before we got here.
I'd been told as much.
You're saying the bombing was a coverup. Of what?
I don't know. But I have a hunch what you're going to find here isn't anything that can be categorized or easily referenced.
Mulder, this is going to take some time, and somebody's going to figure out soon enough we're not even supposed to be here. I'm in serious violation of medical ethics.
We're being blamed for these deaths. Scully, I want to know what this man died of. Don't you?
Why are you whispering?
I can't really talk right now.
What did you find?
Evidence of a massive infection.
What kind of infection?
I don't know.
Scully  listen to me. I'm going home, then I'm booking a flight to Dallas. I'm getting you a ticket, too.
Mulder 
I need you there with me. I need your expertise on this. The bomb we found was meant to destroy those bodies and whatever they were infected by.
I've got a hearing tomorrow 
 I'll have you back for it, Scully. Maybe with evidence that could blow that meeting away.
Mulder  I can't  I'm already way past the point of common sense here 
You said you weren't coming?
I wasn't planning on it. Particularly after spending a half hour in cold storage this morning. But I got a better look at the blood and tissue samples I took from the firemen.
What did you find?
Something I couldn't show to anyone else. Not without more information. And not without causing the kind of attention I'd just as soon avoid right now. The virus those men were infected with contains a protein coat I've never seen before. What it did to them it did extremely fast. And unlike the AIDS virus or any other aggressive strain, it survives very nicely outside the body.
How was it contracted?
That I don't know. But if it's through simple contact of blood to blood, and if it doesn't respond to conventional treatments, it could be a serious health threat.
He didn't mention a park.
This is where he marked on the map, Scully. Where he says those fossils were unearthed.
I don't see any evidence of an archeological or any other kind of digsite. Not even a sewer or a storm drain.
You're sure the fossils you looked at showed the same signs of deterioration you saw in the fireman's body in the morgue?
The bone was porous, as if the virus of the causative microbe were digesting it.
And you've never seen anything like that?
No. It didn't show up on any of the immunohistochemical tests 
This looks like new grass to you?
It looks pretty green for this climate.
Ground's dry about an inch down. Somebody just laid this down. Very recently, I'd say.
All the equipment is brand new.
No irrigation system. Somebody's covering their tracks.
Unmarked tanker trucks... what are archaeologists hauling out in tanker trucks?
I don't know, Mulder.
And where are they going with it?
That's the first question to answer, if we're going to find them.
What are my choices?
About a hundred miles of nothing in each direction.
Where would they be going?
We've got two choices. One of them is wrong.
You think they went left?
I don't know why I think they went right.
Hey, I was right about the bomb, wasn't I?
This is great. This is fitting.
What?
I've got to be in Washington D.C. in eleven hours for a hearing  the outcome of which might possibly affect one of the biggest decisions of my life. And here I am standing out in the middle of nowhere Texas, chasing phantom tanker trucks.
We're not chasing trucks, we're chasing evidence 
 of what exactly?!
That bomb in Dallas was allowed to go off, to hide something: bodies infected with a virus you detected yourself.
They haul gas in tanker trucks, they haul oil in tanker trucks  they don't haul viruses in tanker trucks.
Yeah, well they may this one.
What do you mean by haul? What are you not telling me here?
This virus  it...
Mulder 
It may be extraterrestrial.
I don't believe this. I don't fucking believe this. Y'know, I've been here... I've been here one too many times with you, Mulder.
Been where?
Pounding down some dirt road in the middle of the night. Chasing some elusive truth on a dim hope, only to find myself standing right where I am right now: at another dead end 
What do you think it is?
I have no idea.
This is weird, Mulder.
Very weird.
Any thoughts on why anybody'd be growing corn in the middle of the desert?
Not unless those are giant Jiffy Pop containers out there.
Cool in here. Temperature's being regulated.
For the purpose of what?
You hear that?
I hear the humming. Like electricity. High voltage maybe.
Maybe. Maybe not.
Scully....?
Yeah...?
Run.
What are you doing?
Come on!
Where'd they go?
I don't know.
What? What's wrong?
Salt Lake City, Utah. Transfer effective immediately.
I already gave Skinner my letter of resignation.
You can't quit, Scully.
I can, Mulder. I debated whether or not to even tell you in person, because I knew 
We're close to something here  we're on the verge 
You're on the verge, Mulder  please don't do this to me 
After what you saw last night  after all you've seen  you can't just walk away 
I have. I did. It's done.
Just like that 
I'm contacting the state board Monday to file medical reinstatement papers 
I need you on this, Scully 
You don't Mulder  you've never needed me. I've only held you back. I've got to go.
Why was I assigned to you? To debunk your work. To reign you in. To shut you down.
You saved me, Scully. As different and frustrating as it's been sometimes, your goddamn strict rationalism and science have saved me a thousand times; have kept me honest and made me whole. I owe you so much, Scully, and you owe me nothing. I don't want to do this without you. I don't know if I can. If I quit now, they win.
What? What happened?
I think... something stung me.
Scully...
Something's wrong... I'm having  lancinating pain  my chest. My... motor functions are being affected. I'm...
...my pulse feels thready and I've got a funny taste in the back of my throat.
I think you're in anaphylactic shock 
No  it's 
Scully 
I've got no allergy. Something... this... Mulder... I think... I think you should call an ambulance.
Cold...
Hang on. I'm going to get you out of here.
We've got to keep moving.
Where are we?
You got me. But I think I know what they did with Jimmy Hoffa.
I can't go any farther.
Yes you can. You're going to make it, Scully.
How's that?
Standing around holding your yank while bombs are exploding.
Do I know you?
No. I've been watching your career for a good while. Back when you were just a promising young agent  before that.
You follow me out here for a reason?
Yeah, I did.
My name's Kurtzweil. Dr. Alvin Kurtzweil.
I know the name. Why?
Old friend of your father's.
How'd you find me?
Heard you come here now and again. Figured you'd be needing a little drinky tonight.
You a reporter?
I'm a doctor, but I think I mentioned that. OBGYN.
Who sent you?
I came on my own. After reading about the bombing in Dallas.
Well, if you've got something to tell me, you've got as long as it takes me to hail a cab...
And what's that?
S.A.C. Darius Michaud never tried or intended to defuse the bomb.
He just let it explode.
What's the question nobody's asking? Why that building? Why not the Federal Building?
The Federal Building was too well guarded.
No. They put the bomb in the building across the street because it DID have federal offices. The Federal Emergency Management Agency had a provisional medical quarantine office there. Which is where the bodies were found. But that's the thing...
Those people were already dead.
Before the bomb went off?
That's what I'm saying.
Michaud was a twentytwo year veteran of the bureau 
Michaud was a patriot. The men he's loyal to know their way around Dallas. They blew that building to hide something. Maybe something even they couldn't predict.
You're saying they destroyed an entire building to hide the bodies of three firemen...?
And one little boy.
I think you're full of shit.
Do you?
See this bullshit...? Somebody knows I'm talking to you.
Not according to the men in blue.
What is it? Kiddie porn again? Sexual battery of a patient? I've had my license taken away in three states.
They want to discredit you  for what?
For what? Because I'm a dangerous man. Because I know too much about the truth.
You mean that apocalyptic trash you write? I knew your name was familiar. I just didn't know why.
You know my work?
Dr. Kurtzweil, I'm not interested in bigoted ideas about race or genocide. I don't believe in the Elders of Zion, the Knights Templar, the Bilderburg Group or in a oneworld Jew run government 
I don't either, but it sure sells books.
I was right about Dallas. Wasn't I, Agent Mulder?
How?
I picked up the historical document of the venality and hypocrisy of the American government. The daily newspaper.
You said the firemen and the boy were found in the temporary offices of the Federal Emergency Management Agency. Why?
According to the newspaper, FEMA had been called out to manage an outbreak of the Hanta virus. Are you familiar with the Hanta virus, Agent Mulder?
It was a deadly virus spread by field mice in the Southwest U.S. several years ago.
And are you familiar with FEMA? What the Federal Emergency Management Agency's real power is? FEMA allows the White House to suspend constitutional government upon declaration of a national emergency. To create a nonelected government. Think about that. What is an agency with such broad sweeping power doing managing a small viral outbreak in suburban Texas?
Are you saying it wasn't such a small outbreak?
What was it?
When we were young men in the military, your father and I were recruited for a project. They told us it was biological warfare. A virus. There were rumors about its origins.
What killed those men?
What killed them I won't even write about. I tell you, they'd do more than just harass me. They have the future to protect.
I'll know soon enough.
What killed those men can't be identified in simple medical terms. My god, we can't even wrap our minds around something as obvious as HIV. We have no context for what killed those men, or any appreciation of the scale in which it will be unleashed in the future. Of how it will be transmitted; of the environmental factors involved.
A plague?
The plague to end all plagues, Agent Mulder. A silent weapon for a quiet war. The systematic release of an indiscriminate organism for which the men who will bring it on still have no cure. They've been working on this for fifty years. While the rest of the world was fighting gooks and commies these men have been secretly negotiating a planned Armageddon.
Negotiating with whom?
I think you know. The timetable has been set. It will happen on a holiday, when people are away from their homes. When our elected officials are at their resorts or out of the country. The President will declare a state of emergency, at which time all federal agencies, all government will come under the power of the Federal Emergency Management Agency. FEMA, Agent Mulder. The secret government.
And they tell me I'm paranoid.
Something's gone wrong  something unanticipated. Go back to Dallas and dig. Or you're only going to find out like the rest of the country, Agent Mulder. When it's too late.
How can I reach you?
You can't.
You found something?
Yes. On the Texas border. Some kind of experiment. Something they excavated was brought there in tanker trucks.
What?
I'm not sure. A virus 
 You saw this experiment?
What did it look like?
What do you think?
A transportation system. Transgenic crops. The pollen genetically altered to carry a virus.
That would be my guess.
Your guess?
You told me you had answers.
Yeah, well I don't have them all.
You've been using me 
I've been using you?!
You didn't know my father 
I told you  he and I were old friends 
You're a liar. You lied to me to gather information for you. For your goddamn books. Didn't you?
You'd be shit out of luck if not for me. You saw what you saw because I led you to it. I'm putting my ass on the line for you.
Your ass? I just got chased across Texas by two black helicopters.
And why do you think it is you're standing here talking to me? These people don't make mistakes, Agent Mulder.
I'm looking for anything out of the ordinary. Maybe something from the FEMA offices where the bodies were found.
We weren't expecting to find those remains, of course. They went right off to Washington.
Was there anything in those offices that didn't go to D.C.?
Some bone fragments came up in the sift this morning. We thought there'd been another fatality, but we found out FEMA had recovered them from an archeological site out of town.
Have you examined them?
No. Just fossils, far as I know.
You said you knew the location of the archeological site where these were found.
Show you right on a map.
Is this Dr. Kurtzweil's residence?
You got some kind of business with him?
I'm looking for him.
Looking for him for what?
Feds are looking for him, too. Real nice business he's got, huh?
What's that?
Selling naked pictures of little kids over his computer.
You looking for him for some other reason?
Yeah, I had an appointment for a pelvic examination.
You want a call if we turn up Kurtzweil?
No. Don't bother.
Yes.
We have a situation. The members are assembling.
Is it an emergency?
Who called this meeting?
Strughold. He's just gotten on a plane in Tunis.
Its effect on the host has changed. The virus no longer just invades the brain as a controlling organism. It's developed a way to modify the host body.
Into what?
My lateness may have well been absence. A course has already been taken.
There are complications.
Do they know?
Mulder was in Dallas when we were trying to dispose of evidence. He's gone back there again. Someone has tipped him.
Who?
Kurtzweil, we think.
You've got something to show me.
Yes.
We brought the atmosphere back down to freezing in order to control the development, which is nothing like we've ever seen.
Brought on by what?
Heat, I think. The coincident invasion of a host, the fireman, and an environment that raised his basic body temperature above ninety eight point six.
This man's still alive.
Technically and biologically, though he'll never recover.
How can this be?
The developing organism is using his life energy, digesting bone and tissue. We've just slowed the process.
Do you want me to destroy this one, too? Before it gestates?
No. No...we need to try our vaccine on it.
And if it's unsuccessful?
Incinerate it. Like the others.
This man's family will want to see the body laid to rest.
Tell them he was trying to save the young boy's life, and that he died heroically like the other firemen.
Of what?
They seemed to buy our story about the Hanta virus. You'll make sure the families are taken care of financially, along with a sizeable donation to the community. Maybe a small roadside memorial.
Special Agent Scully 
I apologize for making you wait  I've brought some new evidence with me 
Evidence of what?
You've been back to Dallas?
Yes.
Are you going to let us in on what exactly you're trying to prove 
That the bombing in Dallas may have been to destroy the bodies of those firemen, so their deaths and the reason for them wouldn't have to be explained 
 those are very serious allegations, Agent Scully 
Yes. I know.
And you have conclusive evidence of this? Something to tie this claim of yours to the crime 
Nothing completely conclusive 
I hope to. We're working to develop this evidence 
Working with?
Agent Mulder.
What is it you find incredible?
Well...where would you like me to start? Antarctica is a long way from Dallas, Agent Scully. I can't very well submit a report to the Attorney General that alleges the links you've made here. Bees and corn crops do not quite fall under the rubric of domestic terrorism.
No, they don't.
Most of what I find in here is lacking a coherent picture of an organization with an attributable motive. I realize you're very lucky to be alive Agent Scully. The ordeal you've endured has clearly affected you  though the holes in your account leave this panel with little choice but to delete these references from our final report to the Justice Department. Until which time hard evidence becomes available that would give us cause to pursue such an investigation.
What am I doing here?
You were shot in the head. The bullet broke the flesh on your right brow and glanced off your temporal plate.
Penetration but not perforation.
They gave you a craniotomy to relieve the pressure from a subdural hematoma. But you've been unconscious since they brought you in.
When was that?
Scully had a violent reaction to a bee sting 
You called 911. Except the call was intercepted.
They took her 
I need your clothes, Byers.
Me?
Poopy day?
Yup.
A woman? Work.
What do you do?
What do I do. I'm a key figure in an ongoing government charade. An annoyance to my superiors. A joke among my peers. "Spooky," they call me. Spooky Mulder. Whose sister was abducted by aliens when he was a kid. Who now chases little green men with a badge and a gun, shouting to the heavens and anyone who'll listen that the fix is in. That our government's hip to the truth and a part of the conspiracy. That the sky is falling and when it hits it's gonna be the shitstorm of all time.
I think that about does it, Spooky.
Does what?
Why don't you go home to the old lady 
Sorry. Don't have one.
Do you live around here?
Yeah.
Not supposed to talk about it.
You're not supposed to talk about it? Who told you that?
I think you better tell us.
We don't even know you.
Well, we're FBI agents.
You're not FBI agents.
How's it going, Truman?
Not bad. I just won the State Lottery.
Good. Good.
Tyrone, what if I said I didn't want meatball today?
I'd ask for identification.
See you tomorrow, Truman.
You can count on it.
They're coming. Any minute.
Who?
They're going to stop me talking to you.
There's no one here.
Just listen. You remember when you were a little boy, you stood up in class and said you wanted to be an explorer like Magellan
How do you know about that?
And your teacher said, "You're too late, Truman. There's nothing left to explore."
Were you therehow do you know?
It doesn't matter. Everybody knows about it. They know everything you do. The point is, you got scared.
I don't understand.
You must listen. Everybody's pretending, Truman.
Now what?
Leak at the plant. They had to shut her down.
Is there any way around?
The whole area's being evacuated.
Well, thank you for your help.
You're welcome, Truman.
I'm looking for my wifeNurse Burbank. It's important.
I'm afraid that's impossibleshe's in preop.
Sure. Okay. Fine. Can you pass on a message?
I'll try.
Tell her, tell her...I had to go to Fiji. I'll call her when I get there.
When you get to Fiji?
You got it.
Fine. I'll tell her.
How are you, Mother?
Well, I made it through another night.
How's your hip?
Oh, just so.
You know surprises aren't good for me. You should really call before you come over, dear.
I've got something to tell you. You'd better sit down.
You look very pale, Truman. Are you taking your vitamin D's?
I spend half my life out in the sun, Mother, why would I need vitamin D?
I feel certain my condition runs in the family. Can't this wait, dear?
It doesn't sound insane, Truman. I swear I see him ten times a weekin a hundred faces. I almost hugged a perfect stranger in the salon last Thursday.
It was Dad, I swear, dressed like a homeless man. And you know what else was really strange? A businessman and a woman with a little dog appeared from nowhere and forced him onto a bus.
About time they started cleaning up the trash Downtown. We don't want to end up like the rest of the country.
They never found Dad's bodymaybe somehow
Darling
I'm telling you, if it wasn't him, it was his twin. Did Dad have a brother?
You know he was an only child, like you. I know how bad you feel about what happenedsailing into that storm. But I don't blame you, Truman. I never have.
We ought to be getting you back, Mother.
Hold on a minute, dear. Here's us at Mount Rushmore. You remember, Trumanwhen Dad was still with us  that was quite a drive. You slept all the way there.
It looks so small.
Things always dowhen you look back.
...personally I think the unconquered south face is the only one worth scaling...of course it's a 20,000 foot sheer wall of ice but then when did that ever stop me before?...Naturally, I intend to make the ascent without the benefit of oxygen but also without crampons or even an ice pick...<i>risks?</i>... ...sure I'm aware of the riskswhy else do you think I would spend seven years as an adjuster in a life insurance company...?
Truman, you're gonna be late!
What's that?
It's a surprise.
Well, what do you think?
They're... perfect. Thank you.
Hi, honey. Look at this. It's a "Chef'sMate." Dicer, slicer and peeler in one. Never needs sharpening. Dishwasher safe.
Gee, that's great.
How did it go today?
A man tripped and fell on a chainsaw. We got three of his fingers back on.
I was hoping we could have a special evening.
I won't be late.
Did something happen today?
Where have you been?
I've been thinking
Oh, God.
I figure we could scrape together eight thousand.
Every time you and Marlon
We could bum around the world for a year on that.
And then what, Truman? We'd be back to where we were five years ago. You're talking like a teenager.
Maybe I feel like a teenager.
We're mortgaged to the eyeballs, Truman. There's the car payments. Are we just going to walk away from our financial obligations?
It'd be an adventure.
I thought we were going to try for a baby. Isn't that enough of an adventure?
That can wait. I want to get away. See some of the world. Explore.
This'll pass. Everybody thinks like this now and then. Come to bed.
I think I'm going to stay up for a while.
What're you doing down here?
Fixing the mower. I saw my father today.
I know.
How do you know?
Your mother called. You shouldn't upset her like that.
What did you want?
I made macaroni.
I'm not hungry.
Come on, Truman. Haven't you studied enough?
I still want to look over a couple of things.
I'll take you home, Angela. Why don't you leave those with us for a while?
Good night, Mother.
See you in a minute, sweetheart.
I have to talk with you. But not here. Let's go for a walk.
I'm sorry, I'm late.
What's the hurry?
Surgery. The elevator disaster downtown on the news last night. Cable snapped, a car dropped ten floors. Nonunion contractors. Monsters. We're starting with an amputation.
Arrah!
Oh, my God!
What do I do?
I don't know
you're a nurse, aren't you?
Put some butter on itor ice?
I invited Marlon and Rita for a barbeque Sunday. I thought I'd make my potato salad. Remind me
I won't be here Sunday.
we need more charcoal.
Are you listening to a word I'm saying?
You're upset because you want to go to Fiji. Is that it?
Let's go now.
What?!
Where shall we go? Where shall we go? Spontaneity is what it's all about. Forget Fiji. We can't very well drive to Fiji, can we? What about Atlantic City?
You hate gambling.
That's right. I do, don't I?
So why do you want to go?
Because I never have. That's why you go places, isn't it?
Truman, I think I'm going to throw up.
Blocked at every turn. Beautifully synchronized, don't you agree?
You blaming me for the traffic?
Should I?
Truman, that was our house!
I've changed my mind again. What's New Orleans like this time of year? Mardi Gras. Or let's just see where the road takes us.
Let me out, Truman. You're not right in the head. You want to destroy yourself, you do it on your own!
I think I'd like a little company.
It's hard to go places, isn't it?
There's been an accident, Truman.
Uhuh. There's no accident. It's just more stalling.
Truman, I took the "hypocrite" oath!
I bet you did.
Truman, what about that sign?
I'm sure they're just exaggerating.
So what do we do for money when we get to New Orleans?
I've got my Seahaven Bankcard.
So we just eat into our savings, is that the idea? I'd better call your mother when we get there. She'll be worried sick  I don't know how she's going to take this.
Let me get you some help, Truman. You're not well.
Why do you want to have a child with me? You can't stand me.
That's not true.
Why don't I make you some of this new Mococoa Drink? All natural. Cocoa beans from the upper slopes of Mount Nicaragua. No artificial sweeteners
What the hell are you talking about?!
I've tasted other cocoas. This is the best.
What the hell has that got to do with anything? Tell me what's happening?!
You're having a nervous breakdown, that's what's happening.
You're part of this, aren't you?!
Stop this now. I'll do it. I swear.
Do something...
Who were you talking to?!
You're the one talking to the walls!
No. You said, "Do something." Who were you talking to? Tell me!
Truman, stop it!
What are my plans now? Well, next I'm thinking of tackling the Yuba River in an authentic canoe from the Algonquin tribe. I'm talking about the north fork, a class five rapid  only I'm not going <i>down</i> the Yuba, I'm going <i>up.</i> Do you honestly think for one minute I'd go back to some dreary office to rubber stamp meaningless documents...do you?
Truman, you're gonna be late!
I'm thinking of getting out, Marlon.
Yeah? Outta what?
Outta my job, outta Seahaven, off this island...<i>out!</i>
See here, this is us. All the way round here, Fiji. You can't get any further away before you start coming back. Y'know, there are still islands in Fiji where no human has ever set foot.
So when are you leaving?
It's not that simple. Takes money, planning. You can't just up and go. Oh, I'm going to do it, don't worry about that. I've just got to move slow. Pick my moment. Bonus time's just around the corner. Soon as I finish the...
Nursery?
<i>Spare room</i>  I can start thinking about selling up...and I'll be gone. Up and away on that big steel bird. I'm going, don't you worry about that.
Truman, you know, I did think about moving away one time.
Yeah, what happened?
I figured, what's the point? I knew I'd just be taking my problems with me. Once the kids came along, it made me look at Seahaven with new eyes. I realized, what the hell could be better than this? I'm telling you. What you really need is someone to carry on the "Burbank" name.
You think so?
Trust me.
You really think it could've dropped off an airliner?
Sure. It's halogen. Shame it didn't hit you  you could've sued. You coming for a drink?
I can't tonight.
Marlon
Truman, what are you doing here?
I've got to talk to you.
Sorry, I'm way behind.
I'm onto something, Marlon  something big.
Are you okay? You look like shit.
I think I'm mixed up in something.
<i>Mixed up?</i> Mixed up in what?
There's no point in trying to explain it, but a lot of strange things have been happening  elevators that don't go anywhere, people talking about me on the radio, you know what I mean?
No. Truman, if this is another one of your fantasies...
I think it's got something to do with my dad.
Your Dad?!
I think he's alive. I'll tell you about it later. I'm definitely being followed.
Who?
It's hard to tell. They look just like regular people.
How about them?
Could be. Beard looks phony. It's when I'm unpredictable. They can't stand that. That's why we've got to get out of here. Can you come with me?
I told you I can't.
I've got to show you something.
What're we doing here, Truman?
This is where it started.
What exactly?
Things. Things that doesn't fit. Maybe I'm being set up for something. You ever feel like that, Marlon? Like your whole life has been building to something?
No.
When you were hauling chickens for Kaiser Poultry, what was the furthest you ever went off the island?
I went all over but I never found a place like this. Look at that sunset, Truman. It's perfect.
Yeah...
That's the "Big Guy". Quite a paintbrush he's got.
Just between you and me, Marlon, I'm going away for a while.
Really?
Stay where you are!
Truman? It's me, Marlon. I need to talk to you.
I don't know what to think, Marlon. Maybe I'm going out of my mind, but I get the feeling that the world revolves around me somehow.
It's a lot of world for one man. You sure that's not wishful thinking, you wishing you'd made something more of yourself? Christ, Truman, who hasn't sat on the John and had an imaginary interview on "Seahaven Tonight"? Who hasn't wanted to be somebody?
This is different. Everybody seems to be in on it.
And the last thing I'd ever do is lie to you. Think about it, Truman, if everybody's in on it, I'd have to be in on it too. I'm not in on it, because there is no <i>it.</i>
So what are you saying, Marlon, the whole thing has been in my head?
Not the whole thing, Truman. You were right about one thing.
What's that?
The thing that started all of this.
You take Japanese.
Oh, yes.
Lauren, right?
That's right. Lauren.
I'm Truman, Truman Burbank
I'm not allowed to talk to you.
It's okay. I probably wouldn't talk to me either.
I'm sorry. It's not up to me.
You have a boyfriend? Of course you do.
No...I, er.
No? Really? Good, I mean, I thought possibly a pizza. How about Friday?
No.
Saturday?
Actually, I'm free Sunday.
Now.
Right now? We've got finals tomorrow.
If we don't go now, it won't happen.
Well, what do you want to do?
I think I've studied enough.
It's beautiful! What are you waiting for?
I...I can't.
How can they have a child?
It's not gonna be his, you idiot.
Why not?
You think she'd go through with it?
Sure she would.
Guess I always thought they'd adopt.
What's he doing?
They removed all physical trace of her but they couldn't erase the memory.
The memory of who?
Shhh!
But why didn't he just follow her to Fiji?
Because his mother got sick  very sick. He couldn't leave her. He's a kind boy, maybe too kind.
I can't believe he married Meryl on the rebound.
Who are you?
I'm the creator.
The creator of what?
A show  that gives hope and joy and inspiration to millions.
<i>A show.</i> Then who am I?
You're the star.
Nothing was real.
<i>You</i> were real. That's what made you you so good to watch.
I have a map.
Truman, I've watched you your whole life. I saw you take your first step, your first word, your first kiss. I know you better than you know yourself. You're not going to walk out that door
You never had a camera in my head.
Welcome.
Thank you.
The catalyst for the recent dramatic events was of course Truman's father, Kirk, and his infiltration onto the show. Before we discuss that, it's worth reminding viewers that this isn't the first time someone from the outside world has tried to reach Truman.
We <i>have</i> had our close calls in the past.
Of course, there hasn't been anything to compare with this  the first time an intruder has been a former cast member
a dead one at that.
and certainly the first time that an intruder has been rewarded with a starring role. I really must congratulate you on writing Kirk back in. A master stroke.
Since Kirk started this whole crisis in Truman's life, I came to the conclusion that he was the only one who could end it.
I understand he's hardly had a life of his own since he left the show. How did you convince himwas it the opportunity to be close to Truman again?
That and a fat, new contract.
How <i>do</i> you intend to explain his twenty two year absence?
Amnesia.
Of course.
Let's talk ratings. "Truman" has always enjoyed top ten status but the huge surge over the last few dayshow do you hope to sustain that audience now that Truman appears to have reconciled himself?
As you know ratings have never been our primary goal. I imagine we'll lose those voyeurs only interested in witnessing Truman's latest torment. However, I'm certain that our core audience will remain loyal.
But recent events have been so dramatic, it does raise the perennial question. What keeps us watching this one man twentyfour hours a day  eating, sleeping, working, sitting for hours in contemplation?
It has to be the reality.
We've become tired of watching actors give us phony emotions, bored with pyrotechnics and special effects. While the world he inhabits is counterfeit, there's nothing fake about Truman himself. No scripts, no cue cards. It's not always Shakespeare but it's genuine. That's how he can support an entire channel.
A window onto the human condition?
I prefer to think of it as a mirror.
Not only does he give us a glimpse of the truth, he gives us a glimpse of ourselves.
But how do you account for the popularity of those eight hours a day when Truman sleeps?
We find many viewers leave him on all night for comfort. Haven't you ever watched your child or your lover sleep?
Let's go to some of those viewers' calls.
Are we talking Emmies?
Certainly a nomination.
Of course, Truman has always been very much in on casting.
As with our own lives, the only people he can't cast are his family. Otherwise he has final approval, able to elevate an extra into a lead role as was the case with his only real friend, Marlon, or alternatively relegate a star to a bit player.
Istanbul, Turkey, you're on with master videographer, Christof.
We should remind viewers that Truman, especially as a child, presented a challenge for the production.
Let me demonstrate some examples.
He was curious from birth  premature by two weeks, as if he couldn't wait to get started.
Of course, his eagerness to leave his mother's womb also meant he was the one selected.
In competition with five other unwanted pregnancies  the casting of a show determined by an air date  he was the one who arrived on cue.
Who knew that a show originally meant to last one year  "Bringing Up Baby"  would turn into a "cradle to grave" concept. He is in fact the first child in the world to be legally adopted by a corporation.
That's correct.
And the show now generates a yearly income equivalent to the gross national product of a small country.
People forget it takes the <i>population</i> of an entire country to keep the show running.
No, of course not. And since the show runs 24 hours a day with no commercial breaks the staggering profits are all generated from product placement.
Yes, everything you see on the show is for sale  from the actors' wardrobe, food products, to the very homes they live in
All products carefully chosen and tested by you for quality and aesthetic value.
There's nothing on the show I don't use myself.
And it's all available in the "Truman" Show" catalogue. Operators are standing by.
Why do you feel that Truman's never come close to discovering the true nature of his world?
We accept the reality of the world with which we're presented. As the show expanded, naturally we were forced to manufacture ways to keep Truman in Seahaven  demonstrating that every venture is accompanied by a risk.
You've never actually met Truman, yourself. Never thought about doing a cameoplaying a veterinarian, or a priest, something like that?
I've been tempted. But I think it's important to retain objectivity. I wouldn't want to get emotionally caught up.
The Hague for Christof...The Hague?...lost them. Hollywood, California, you're on "Tru Talk."
We've learnt about life as Truman has and, despite the complaints of a minority, it's been an overwhelmingly positive experience, for Truman and for the viewing public.
Let's take another call. London, England, you're on "Tru Talk."
Close up?
No, hold back...
Why is he in the basement?
He moved down there after Meryl packed up and left.
Why wasn't I told? Any unpredictable behavior has to be reported. Is that the best shot we can get?
What's to see?
What's on the ClockCam?
What happened down there?
He was tidying up his garbage. I was going to call you. But halfway through, he gave up and fell asleep.
Give me a shot from Truman's ring.
He gave it back to his father.
We've declared a curfew. Everyone else is at first positions.
All prop cars accounted for?
He has to be on foot. He has the world's most recognizable face. He can't disappear.
I'm sure we'll get him on this next sweep.
What have we missed?
It's just a matter of time.
We're not watching the sea.
Why would we
Sweep the harbor.
Cue music...
What music?
<i>Storm</i> music...Wagner...
He doesn't care.
Do it!
I'm sorry to keep you. How can I help?
I want to book a flight to Fiji.
Where exactly?
<i>Fiji.</i>
<i>Where</i> in Fiji? What island?
I'm sorry, er...the biggest one.
Viti Levu. For how many?
One.
When do you want to leave, remembering, of course, you do lose a day on the way there?
Today.
I'm sorry. I don't have anything for at least a month.
<i>A month.</i>
It's the busy season.
You are a travel agent, aren't you? "Doris"? Your job is to help people travel.
I do have a fabulous rate on a cruise ship departing for Fiji tomorrow. But you wouldn't want to do that.
Why wouldn't I?
I thought you were in a hurry.
That's right.
You want to book the flight?
It doesn't matter. I'll make other arrangements.
Special Agent Pendergast. FBI. Forgive me. I guess I was snooping. What is this?
An invention of mine. It's a computer program designed to describe the characteristics of a given species from a reading of its DNA. I call it the Genetic Sequence Extrapolator.
How does it work?
With a DNA analysis from a fossil you can use this program to tell the species and sex of the animal, whether it was nocturnal, what it ate, how it hunted, how big it was... You aren't here for a lesson in DNA.
No. I came to talk about Dr. John Whittlesley.
Somehow, when all this happened... I knew it would come back to John. Is he really dead?
Maybe not.
If he were alive he'd have contacted me.
You have time to talk?
Dr. Whittlesley was last seen in Belem, Venezuela a week after the rest of his expedition disappeared. A taxi driver drove him to the harbor where he boarded a cargo boat. That boat washed up in my district. Everyone on board was killed.
And John?
Disappeared. His body wasn't among the victims.
I don't understand.
The people killed were mauled and their brains were eaten. Just like Beauregard. One part of the brain was extracted with surgical precision. The hypothalamus and thalamus to be exact.
John couldn't have anything to do with a horrible thing like that. He was a fine man despite his problems 
You loved him.
Yes. Once. We met at Columbia. John held the Cadwalader Chair in Statistical Paleontology when I was a grad student there.
You were going to be married.
How did you know that?
I ran an internet search on Dr. Whittlesley. Got a list of his scholarly articles and the engagement announcement in the Times. I also found a record of your restraining order.
That was two years ago. John was still in love with me. He wouldn't leave me alone.
You were afraid of him, weren't you?
He was afraid of himself. He tried suicide once. He was ill. Manic depressive. He had wild emotional highs and lows. Not a happy affliction for a scientist. He'd been revered in our community. By the end he was a joke.
Tell me about the last expedition. What was he looking for?
A legendary monster called Mbwun.
A monster?
Yes. He developed his own theory that he called the Calisto Effect. It held that evolution wasn't always gradual or driven by natural selection. The environment would sometimes cause sudden and grotesque changes which could result in a "monster species". It made no sense. But he felt he had evidence that Mbwun was such a monster, living in isolation on the tepui for thousands of years.
What happened?
No one knows. The Kothoga who live on the tepui are cannibals.
No. I'm all right. I won't let this affect me anymore. John wouldn't get help. His ego endangered the lives of others. His theory came first.
What if Whittlesley arrived on the tepui and no monster was there? Was he desperate enough to create one?
I don't understand.
Something came up in autopsy tonight. Imbedded in Beauregard's body we found a claw.
My God. Then it was an animal.
I don't think so. I think we were meant to think it was Mbwun. Did Whittlesley's monster have claws?
I don't know. He sent back a statue that's supposed to be an exact representation. But I've never seen it. It's in the exhibit.
Would you mind showing it to me?
Where would we find it?
I'm not sure. We should split up. You take that hall and I'll take this one.
All right. I'm as macho as you are. Perhaps.
What happened?
I don't know.
I heard you calling and I ran after you, but you kept disappearing and I couldn't keep up.
You were behind me? Running after me?
It's okay, I'm all right. I remember now... It was an animal. Something large! I could smell it. It was hunting me. I saw two green eyes in the dark.
Where did you see it?
Behind me. Over there.
That's not what I saw.
All right. If you're positive.
Dr. Green...
I didn't imagine it. I know what I saw. Are you sure there are enough men in there?
They're all heavily armed.
All right. This is hard for me. I'm a scientist. I like order and logic. Sometimes too much. There's got to be an explanation. There can't be an animal in there. But I saw something.
What was it?
I don't know. Mr. Pendergast. Do me a favor. Get me a DNA readout on that claw.
Genetic damage?
When DNA is defective, it often uncontrollably replicates long repeating sequences of the same base pair. Viruses can damage DNA. So can radiation, certain chemicals. Even cancer. Let's let the G.S.E. sort it out. I have to get started. This will take several hours.
We need someone to take us to the secure storage area.
Pendergast? Are you all right?
No. I think I'm hallucinating.
You're not. Where is it?
Gone.
Wounded?
No. A chromium alloy tipped .45 caliber bullet bounced off that thing's skull like a spit ball. I think it was bothered by my light.
That would fit. It's nocturnal. Quick. Come inside.
I don't know how to deal with this. It's hellish. Like nothing I ever saw. I'm not trained to deal with a monster, a supernatural creature like that.
It's not supernatural. Mbwun is an animal. Part lizard, part human, a genetic freak of some kind, like the halfgoat, halfsheep they found last year in the jungles of Vietnam.
But this isn't the jungle! This is New York. How did it get here? A thing like that crossed two continents. It makes no sense!
But what can we do? Our guns are useless 
We have the fibers. Don't you see? The creature is hungry. It wants the hormones in these plants. It would take hundreds of human brains to supply what's in these fibers. We're just a poor substitute. To make it stop hunting, we have to give it what it wants.
You'd slow us down and put Margo in danger.
Unlock one of the other storage rooms. We're going upstairs. We'll leave a trail back to 1012 and try to trap the monster in here.
That was D'Agosta.
The planetarium!
Vince!
Is there another way around?
No. The planetarium is in the next cell. This is one of the fire doors...
Hide quickly!
What are you going to do?
What is it doing?
It's scared of me.
What happened?
Its eyesight is worse than I thought. It couldn't see us. And it couldn't smell us through the glass.
It didn't want the fibers. What does that mean?
I think... it means it's full.
Then it won't go after the others?
No. It's still hunting, but not for the hormones.
For what?
I think... for the pleasure of the kill.
We have to try and draw it off!
How?
The answer's right in front of us.
That's a ptarmigan, feigning a broken wing. The bird pretends to be injured to draw the fox away from its nest!
It's deceptively simple. Like a Bruckner Symphony or a Matisse.
Help someone!
Oh God! Help!
You smell that?
It's coming. Run.
We're not going to make the storage room!
Listen to me, Pendergast. Mbwun's DNA is part homo sapien. In primates, the eye is a direct path to the brain! If you get a clean shot, there's only one place you can kill it. Shoot it in the eye!
No! Don't kill him! Pendergast, you were right. It's John!
What?
That thing is John Whittlesley. I should have seen it before! The fibers are infected with a virus. You eat them, and the virus alters your DNA! He became addicted to them in South America, followed the plants back to the states. He probably entered the country as a man. It would have taken several months for the change to take place. That's how he got from the boat to the museum!
I don't believe it.
You have to! Listen! All viruses pass on their own DNA. Instruct the cells of the host to make more viruses! This one was different. It inserted a whole array of genes into John. Reptile genes, sixty five million years old. Those genes remade him! It's not his fault!
Whatever that thing is, we have to kill it!
Just like John. He won't listen.
I have to shoot.
Do it, quickly. Please. Aim for the eye.
He has to look here or I won't get a clear shot. Call him, Margo.
I can't!
You have to. Do it now!
I'm so glad to see you. What's the occasion?
I'm in town on a case. Dropped by to see Vince and we thought we'd see the new display.
If I spent half the time on my Fractal Evolution thesis that I spend on this fly rod, I'd have my PhD.
But at what a price.
I have the species identification on these teeth. We can extract DNA and start running tests on the extrapolator program. Call Dr. Frock. He wanted a demonstration.
Margo, you haven't heard?
What?
Frock's been fired.
That's impossible.
I'm sorry to be the bearer of bad tidings, but you know me. Telegraph. Telephone. Tell Kawakita. I got the definitive word from Cuthbert's secretary. This is Dr. Frock's last week.
For once I'm glad you're rumor central. What in the world is going on?
Someone's been murdered. Not shot, strangled or stabbed, either. Torn limb from limb. There's talk of a psychotic killer or even an animal.
Mbwun.
What's that?
What do you make of it, Margo?
It's not mammalian, that's for sure. I think it's reptilian.
Turkish Gecko, I believe. A lizard.
Lizard DNA and human DNA on the same strand? Impossible. The sample must be contaminated.
There's another possibility. A lot of repeated base pairs could suggest a high level of genetic damage.
What kind of egg is it?
It's reptilian.
These plant fibers are loaded with hormones!
What kind of hormones?
4monoxytocin is... "A hormone secreted by the human hypothalamus gland."
Try Weinstein's tropic hormone.
This is it. This is what he, or it... is after! The plant has high concentrations of the same hormones found in minute quantities in the human brain!
So what?
Pendergast told me the killer extracts and eats the hypothalamus and thalamus of the victim's brains!
Eats them?
Yes. Whatever killed Beauregard may have lived on this plant. When the crates were put in secure storage, they were out of reach. The killer couldn't get them, so it got the next best thing.
Is Dr. Frock safe!
Yes, he's fine. Greg... take care of yourself!
Got to finish this thesis sometime.
How about lunch?
Not today. Besides, I think the director of the museum is expecting you.
Okay.
Hard to read in this light. The ink is so faded.
The dogs have lost the scent, Mr. Pendergast. Maybe we should head back.
Not yet. Let's try the fork to the left.
They've got something.
Keep the light up. I can't see.
Shut them up!
Heel Argo! Hobbes! Heel!
Stop!
Holy mother, what is that?
Argo! Hobbes!
Get back! Now!
There's something out there! Let's go get it now! That's why we came down here, isn't it?
He's right. Follow me.
Look. It's Hobbes! He's all right.
Come on. Let's get back to the others. We can't leave them alone.
It's alright. I can tell by the way the dog's acting that whatever was out there is gone. What is this place?
Not on the map. Looks like it connects with the city sewer.
Oh... my... God!
Quiet.
Jesus, what is this?
Another storage room.
Oh no. I smell it.
Keep the animal quiet.
This room sucks.
She's never going to take us to see the dinosaurs. That lady said they were on the fourth floor.
Let's ditch and find them ourselves.
We're not supposed to go back there.
Chicken. This is a great short cut.
I don't want to go this way.
Don't be a wuss. Come on.
Quiet!
What is it?
I don't know. But I think it's bad.
We were just lost, okay? And we went down this curvy staircase. At the bottom was a big shadow.
Big as a house.
Not that big.
Well almost. Depends which house. It smelled like old hamburger, and it made this weird noise.
And it snuffled the ground like a dog.
Like this.
It had a long tongue, teeth this big and yellow eyes.
They were green eyes and they were slit like a lizard's.
They were yellow!
You're color blind.
You work here?
Yes, I do.
What do you do?
I'm an Evolutionary Biologist. What do you do?
Nothing. I'm in third grade. What's a revolutionary what ch'a ma' callit?
Evolutionary Biologist. I study how life on earth evolved over millions of years.
Way cool. Then you know where the dinosaurs are.
Fourth floor, West wing, but stay with your class.
Thank you for taking the time to help us with this, Dr. Frock.
Happy to be useful. It's rare enough these days. According to security, Beauregard put the Whittlesley crates in storage area 1012.
How many storage areas are there?
They fill seven floors. We have the largest collection of mammals and dinosaurs in the world. Just to give you an idea, there are more than three million insects specimens. Not to mention amphibians, reptiles, birds, anthropological artifacts, meteorites, minerals and gems. Only about five percent of the museum collection is actually on display.
Do you mean Dr. Whittlesley?
Yes. John made quite a study of the whole museum. He had a copy of my original plans.
Something tried to get into this room!
And failed. These doors are solid steel.
This means there must be an animal loose in the museum!
I wouldn't be so sure.
It's from John. Those two arrows were his insignia. It's addressed to Louis Moriarty, a patron who financed his expeditions.
Read it out loud.
"Dear Louis, Tomorrow we go to the south end of the tepui where we'll be in the greatest danger, so I'm sending Carlos back with the crates. You always believed in me, Louis, even in the darkest days. So it gives me great pleasure to tell you your faith has been rewarded. We've made an incredible find. I enclose a representation of Mbwun. Note the exaggerated claws, the reptilian attributes, the hints of bipedalia. It's beyond belief, but this statue is accurate. I know because I've seen the beast."
You said John Whittlesley made a study of your blueprints of the museum.
Yes.
Are there any hidden rooms or staircases? Places where someone could hide?
Not really. Just the subbasement.
Where is that?
I don't know. It was walled over. No one's been down there in years.
You said you had plans of the museum. Could we see them, please?
We think it may have something to do with the eggs we found in the crate.
I don't believe it.
Margo, this is too dangerous. You always think you can solve everything. This time you don't have enough information. The animal might behave in unexpected ways. Leave her here with me. Don't put her in danger.
He's right.
What's that?
Footsteps!
Dr. Frock, I was wondering. What happened to the rest of Whittlesley's plants?
They were sent to the Center For Disease Control in Atlanta.
Yes. Bit of a shock. But as Cuthbert so tactfully put it, the museum needs new blood. And since I've been here since the Mesozoic Era 
I don't believe it.
Now Margo, don't overreact. Cuthbert has to cut costs somehow. My leaving makes perfect sense. This isn't exactly early retirement. I've overstayed the party a bit.
We can't do without you. You're one of the foremost authorities on primitive pharmacology. You're practically an institution around here.
That, apparently, is the problem. I'm yesterday's news. Who needs a Curator of Plant Biology in a museum with one exhibit on plants? Monsters and dinosaurs, cannibals and shamans are the new currency of the realm.
Please. Don't humiliate me further.
Let me help. I can take care of everything.
No, Margo. This is one problem you can't solve. You have to stay out of it. The fact is, I want to retire.
How can you say that? You know it's not true.
Yes it is. I'm tired and I'm no longer needed 
My work on fossil intermediates would be crippled without you.
With all due respect, dear, that's bull. You dance rings around me with your new technology. You've left me in the dust.
Your work is highly relevant. What about your display on Primitive Pharmacology? Cuthbert told me himself he was going to feature it prominently in the Superstition Exhibit.
Healing plant use among the Ki tribe of Bechuanaland has been cancelled to make room for Tibetan Erotic Art.
Come on. I'll walk you back to the elevator.
I'm not giving up.
You must.
This isn't a death sentence. Greg has promised to teach me fly fishing. I'll garden. I'll write.
You are this museum. It won't be the same without you.
Everyone needs a change of scenery. I've been rolling down these halls for fortyodd years. That's quite enough.
That Cuthbert. What a piece of work. Someone's dead and all he cares about is his Superstition Exhibit.
Cuthbert's counting on the exhibition's success. The museum is in debt. Contributions and public funding have dried up. Admissions no longer cover overhead. The last big infusion of cash we had was the King Tut exhibit. Cuthbert was hired to get us out of the red. If the Superstition Exhibit isn't lucrative, he'll have to start auctioning off some of these gems.
I can't help thinking there's something that Pendergast overlooked. If the scratches were made by whatever killed Beauregard, it wants something that's in here.
A blow dart. Seed pods. A plant press. Pretty unimpressive stuff.
Let me see the plant press.
What is it?
I'm not sure. As you know, the Kothoga lived outside civilization on the tepui for thousands of years. Species flourished in isolation when man and pollution rendered them extinct. This could be one of the last remaining samples of an unknown plant.
Whatever it is, it must be common on the tepui. John used it as packing material.
You're right.
Margo, these aren't seed pods.
What are they?
They're eggs.
Like the claw.
Let's not jump to conclusions. This egg could belong to any number of reptiles, Dr. Frock.
Come on, Margo. We're on the verge of something huge. Let's consider the possibility, just the three of us, alone in this room. What if John was right. I mean, what if? And he sent back an egg of his monster in the crates. When it got to the museum, it hatched.
Several problems with that theory. For one thing, this egg is intact. For another, according to Pendergast, the crates were shipped here on a boat. Everyone on board was killed like Beauregard. If the thing hatched in midocean, where did it go?
Look at this. An ambyloid reovirus protein. That explains why the computer's confused. The plant's infected with a virus.
That's not so unusual. Many plants carry viruses. Like the burls on Maple trees.
But a virus normally codes for other viruses. This one's making human and animal proteins. Listen to this. "Glycotetraglycine collagenoid. Weinstein's tropic hormone. 4 monoxytocin supressin hormone."
All right, assuming the program is accurate, this is a description of the animal with that claw. "Species unidentified. Genus: unidentified. Phylum unknown. Male, weight in excess of 240 kg. Brain capacity, 900 centimeters." That means it's highly intelligent. "Quadrupedal."
Quadrupedal! The other name for Mbwun. "He Who Walks on All Fours."
"Nocturnal. External hair and bony plates. Locomotor speed 6070 kilometers. Reduced optic chiasm"... poor eyesight. "External mucoid nasal glands,"... very keen scent... "Morphological characteristics: Highly robust. Aggressiveness: extreme."
So the claw came from a huge creature with a preternatural sense of smell and poor eyesight that hunts at night.
With the intelligence of a human being, the speed of a greyhound, and the strength of a grizzly bear.
Margo, what you've just described is a killing machine.
And it's hungry. It's been two days since it's eaten. There are five hundred people arriving right now. The animal hunts at night and it has a keen sense of smell! All those people in one enclosed space...
It's like ringing the dinner bell.
What's going on?
Some kind of power failure. Maybe it's the storm. Do you have a flashlight?
I think so.
Dr. Frock. Did you hear that?
Don't stop now.
What's that?
It's one of the fire doors. Good Lord, Margo. We're trapped!
None of that matters now. The people upstairs need us. We have to help.
We can't. We've managed to get inside the one place that's safe. I think we should sit tight and wait for reinforcements. If we go outside, we're risking more lives. You have to accept it, Margo, there's nothing we can do. The building must be swarming with police by now. It won't take long for them to get through the doors.
That thing could kill ten people in a matter of minutes.
I'm coming with you.
No, Dr. Frock. You can't.
Come back and get me.
We will.
Remember, it has poor eyesight. It hunts with its sense of smell. So for God's sake, Margo, don't get those fibers on your clothes!
Dr. Frock?
Look who's here, Margo.
We've met. The Hacksaw Murders. '89.
Oh yes! Who could forget. Afterwards you sent me that amazing case of Chateau Lafitte.
I hope you liked it.
Lovely bouquet. After our last case, Vince took me out for a draft beer. As I recall we split the check.
What are we talking about here?
Someone who makes the Hacksaw Murderer look like Mother Teresa.
Right. The entire brain appears to have been extracted. May I see it, please?
Curious. There's something missing.
The thalamus and the hypothalamus, perhaps?
Yes. Two organs the size of a walnut have been removed with what looks like surgical precision.
Lieutenant! It's me.
What is it?
Dr. Green has to see you!
Got my hands full here.
It's important. Please. You have to come! Pendergast, too. She's found out something.
What happened?!
There's a dead body in the exhibit! People are panicking, trampling each other trying to get out.
It's still back there!
I know.
How much ammo do we have to make a stand?
You're asking me? I don't even know how to load this thing.
All right. Kawakita, cover the rear.
Oh shit.
I believe in you a hundred percent, Vince, but that's the second time we've been at that intersection.
Not so loud.
What's that?
All right everybody, hold up!
What does it say?
Dr. John Whittlesley.
What's that doing here?
I don't know. I thought Dr. Whittlesley died in South America.
Dear God. Where are we, Lieutenant?
I'd say we're in its home.
This place is a maze.
I'm one of the few who know every inch it, now that John is gone.
Look. It's some kind of letter.
May I see that?
Did you hear that? My God. He says that Mbwun is real!
Pardon my French, but bull shit.
This on top of the scratches... isn't it proof!
Shouldn't a drug that powerful be destroyed?
The virus itself might have positive applications. They'll keep the plants in secure lock up while the studies are made. Greg isn't joining us?
Who are you? The undertaker?
Special Agent Pendergast. FBI.
Vince D'Agosta. Am I out?
Not at all. I think we may be working on the same case. If so, I could use your help.
The body?
What's left of it.
Mind if I have a look?
We need light in here, stat.
Where's the head?
Careful. That mess on the ground is brains.
Whose footprints?
Night watchman who found the body. Sweet old man. Been tossing his cookies for over an hour. Not a likely suspect.
An original Roger Tory Peterson of a RedBreasted Merganser. Amazing. I have a copy of this in my office at home.
Can't really focus on birds at the moment, Pendergast. I'm tryin' to keep my breakfast down.
In this violent world, I believe the only way to stay sane is to take time to notice beautiful things.
I drink. After hours of course. On duty, I smoke. Do you mind?
Not at all. I enjoy the smell of a good cigar.
Then you won't like this one. It's a piece of shit.
Lieutenant 
Call me Vince.
Did you read about a boat that washed up outside of New Orleans about four months ago? Twelve bodies on board.
Who didn't? Big news. Out of Brazil, wasn't it?
Yes. That's my case. Now it's yours. All the corpses were badly mutilated in a very particular way. Decapitated. Brains extracted. Limbs torn to shreds. It looked like the work of a large animal, but there was no sign of an animal on board.
So the method of death is the only connection?
No. There's more. There were crates from this museum in the hold of the boat.
If you don't mind, this could be important.
You're kidding.
Unfortunately, no.
I've got to admit, that was a damn sight better than "the dog ate my homework".
How do you explain the part about Beauregard?
They heard the victim's name and wove him into their story. Nice touch.
I believed them.
You think what we've got here is a monster as big as a house that smells... like hamburger?
No. I think what we've got here is a psychotic killer wielding some kind of unusual weapon... who wants us to believe he's a monster.
Oh.
What happened to them?
If you don't mind a suggestion, you might try a saliva test.
Saliva test? You mean, you think someone ate part of the brain?
Correct.
I don't like animals. Never have. Dog bit me when I was little. After that I gave up on pets. Animals are irrational. Give me a psychotic killer any day. If there's one thing that makes me queasy it's being part of a food chain. My first case as a rookie, two brothers climbed a fence at the zoo. It was late August. Over ninety. The polar bear was inside his cave. Kids didn't know he was in there. All they saw was the pool. They got to swimming and splashing. The noise woke up the bear. By the time I arrived, both little boys were in pieces. The bear was dragging one kid around by the foot. I can still hear the mother screaming 
This isn't an animal, Vince. I've been on this case four months, remember? I've learned a few things.
You've been holding out on me Pendergast. You have a suspect capable of this?
How big is the subbasement?
Apparently it's huge.
I think I should come with you.
We haven't got time. You have to meet with museum security so we can make a decision about tonight.
Pendergast! Help! It's right behind us!
This door's locked. Try shooting the hinges off.
Vince? There's no way we can get to you with the fire doors down. There's an entrance to the sub basement in the hall off the north side exit.
The subbasement?
I've been down there. It links up to the old sewer system. I can guide you out.
I smell it. It's here.
Go out the north exit! There's a hallway and a false wall by the Greek vases. Run!
Everybody. Get behind me.
Nice to see you, Lieutenant.
The subbasement, huh? Great idea.
This huge police presence tonight isn't necessary, Lieutenant. You'll just scare people off. I can handle the security behind scenes with this system. It's state of the art.
The cops are nonnegotiable, Ippolito. Why don't you just tell me how this space station works.
It's fool proof, basically. I designed this whole thing myself. Every valuable object in the Museum carries a small electronic chip. If anything's moved so much as an inch, we get an alarm pinpointing the exact location of the attempted theft.
That's great if you're stopping a burglar. Not our goal here. Are there motion detectors?
In every exhibition room. The museum's divided into five cells. The reception and exhibit are in cell five. We could arm the motion detectors in cells one to four, then seal the perimeter with our fire doors.
That would leave one exit for hundreds of people. You'd be violating every fire regulation on the books. We'll guard the perimeter with my men and engage the motion detectors in the other cells. One more question. I see a big hole. If this entire thing is run by computer, what happens if the power fails?
You don't know much about computers, Lieutenant. There are safeguards built in. We have backup systems with redundancies. There's no way these computers can fail.
The whole system is shutting down! We have to get out quickly before the fire doors fall!
What doors?
I told you! They seal off all the cells. They were designed to fall automatically in a system failure 
You said the system couldn't fail!
Ippolito! Get back here!
Like hell!
D'Agosta? Ippolito. Come in.
Where the hell are you?
I made it outside. I'll coordinate the rescue efforts from here. Help is on the way. Just sit tight.
It's a little late, you son of a bitch. There's a friggin' monster loose in here! Get the FBI, the fire department. Find metal cutters, cut through. And bring a cannon. The damn thing is huge.
I got it after I was mugged in the subway last spring.
Where's the walkin safe?
Behind you.
What's the combination?
I'll do it. Just let me find my portable phone.
Forget it!
Calm down. I found it!
Battery's dead. Shit.
Let's go!
That thing won't come after us, right? It's going for bigger game. The group blundering around in the basement. Poor fools.
Hurry up!
Just a minute. I'm shaking! Take the gun.
For Chrissake, I'll do it. What's the combination?!
To the left twice then five no... sorry... I think it's fifteen... it's been a while...
Oh Jesus...
Fifteen... what's next?
Eight to the right! Look! I found it!
I had no idea the Museum had a complete collection of Piranesi's Forum sketches.
If you like them, they're for sale. Another day like yesterday and half the collection will be on the block.
I've read about the Museum's financial troubles.
We've been operating in the red for years. That was the whole idea behind the Superstition Exhibit. It was designed to pull people in. We've spent every penny we have on advance publicity, betting everything on the opening's success. If we postpone at the last minute... No. I don't want to think about that.
If the party goes forward, and that's a big if... I've arranged for a large police presence.
Do they have to wear uniforms?
Yes.
I don't want to scare people.
I understand. But Mr. Cuthbert, we've got bigger problems. Depending on what we find today, we may have to shut you down.
We all love the museum. I come here myself with my kids. We're trying to work with you.
I appreciate that.
I'm telling you, something's wrong. I still haven't heard from Pendergast. I think you should call it off.
It's too late now. Guests are arriving. The Mayor's car is pulling up.
I'll go down and speak to him.
You haven't got the authority. Only Pendergast can pull the plug.
Pendergast may be in trouble. Don't you understand? He still hasn't come back. It's been over three hours 
He'll be back. Relax. We're in good shape. Your security is air tight. There've been no more incidents, nothing suspicious. There's no reason to call off the opening now.
Sweet Jesus!
Get his gun and his walkie talkie, Jonathan. Move.
My office is on the third floor! There's a walkin safe and a portable phone! We can lock ourselves in the safe and call for help!
I have to help Pendergast. Kawakita and Jonathan stay with me. The rest of you can go with Cuthbert!
Beauregard! You scared me half to death.
I'm sorry, sir. You okay?
Someone broke into this room.
Anything missin'?
Doesn't look like it. We're damned lucky. This statue is priceless.
Looks like the curse is still at work.
The claws are sharp... I must have cut myself. Better move these crates to the secure storage area where they'll be safe.
Don't know if it'll do any good, Mr. Cuthbert.
Why not?
No one broke into this room, sir. Someone broke out. That lock was torn off from the <u>inside</u>.
Uh, Vince. Sorry. This won't wait.
It better be good.
There are a couple of kids who were lost yesterday near the site of the murder. Claimed they saw a monster. They're pretty determined to tell you their story. You want to see them?
No.
Manual overrides aren't working. I'm getting nothing, Lieutenant.
Great.
There's some kind of animal loose in the museum. Pendergast's alone. He needs help. I want volunteers to go with me.
I'm in.
...Look, pal, it's a tough break, but, uh... well damnit, your wife's been pinched.
They sent us to tell ya.
Yeah, uh, they brung her to the county jail, uh...
Homicide.
Well, embezzlement. And homicide. A guy named David Brewster. He's, uh... He's the decedent.
...Yeah, it's a tough break.
Visiting ends at five. Too late today. You can see her tomorrow.
Sorry, pal. They sent us to tell ya.
Are you awake?... Is he awake?
Crane? We have to tell you, as soon as you're consciousis he conscious?
His eyes are open.
Uh... you're under arrest.
As soon as the doctor lets us, we gotta move you. Does he understand that? We're supposed to tell him. Are you conscious?
You'll go to the prison hospital.
Under arrest for murder.
What'd he say? Does he understand?
He said OK. Is that what he said?
OK, boys, which of you gets the privilege?
We're just closing, friend.
Oh, happy days! I wish I was doing well enough to turn away business! More power to ya, brother! The public be damned!
Hey, what's your problem, friend? This is a business establishment with posted hours
Yes, sir.
Could you come with me please?
Sure. Can Ed come too?
He's a barber.
Ah.
Second chair.
Not an owner.
No, he's family, he's my brotherin law.
Ahhah. It would be best if he waited here.
'Lo, Ed.
Hello, Walter.
Mr...?
Crane. Ed Crane.
You also have an interest in the securing property?
...You're Ed Crane?
Yeah
Barber, right? I'm Freddy Riedenschneider. Hungry? They tell me the chow's OK here. I made some inquiries.
No thanks, I
...I'm Crane.
My name is Diedrickson. County medical examiner.
Yeah?
Hello!
Hello.
Doesn't bother me.
Well, have you ever considered tar Macadam? People think it's just for public works and commercial purposes, roads, parking lots, so forth...
...We goin'?
Huh? No.
Huh?
They sent us to tell ya. We pulled the detail.
My *wife*?
I don't understand.
He's the dead guy.
Birdy... I didn't mean to
What'd he say?
Birdy...
Says here that the Russians exploded n Abomb and there's not a damn thing we can do about it.
Uhhuh.
How d'ya like them apples?
...Ed?
Huh?
Russians exploded an Abomb.
Yeah.
Jesus...
Now, being a barber is a lot like being a barman or a sodajerk; there's not much to it once you've learned the basic moves. For the kids there's the Butch, or the Heinie...
...so you tie your own flies, Ed. I mean, if you're really serious. You tie your own flies, you do aI know it's matickless, I know, people say, hey, you can buy flies at the store but you can buy your fish at the store, Ed, you see what I'm saying?
Uhhuh.
The point is there's a certain art to the process. The point is not merely to provide, and let me point out, these fish are not as dumb as you might think.
Uhhuh.
Sportsmanship! That's my point. June fly, Ed? Mosquito? Which of these? Well, what fish do you seek?
Yeah.
Sure, go to the store. Go there, describe to the man where you will be fishing, and for what, and the weather conditions, sun, no sun, whatnot, and so forth, and then you might as well have the man go ahead and sell you the goddamn FISH, Ed...
...You sure, Eddie?
Yeah, yeahgo home.
Frank.
Huh?
This hair.
Yeah.
...You ever wonder about it?
Whuddya mean?
I don't know... How it keeps on coming. It just keeps growing.
Yeahlucky for us, huh, pal?
No, I mean it's growing, it's part of us. And we cut it off. And throw it away.
Come on, Eddie, you're gonna scare the kid.
...I'm gonna take his hair and throw it out in the dirt.
What the
I'm gonna mingle it with common house dirt.
What the hell are you talking about?
...How you today, Ed?
OK.
You don't got a headache?
...Nah.
Damn, I got a headache to beat the band.
This is what family is for, Ed! This is when ya come together!
Yeah.
Close ranks! Goddamnit! Those sons of bitches!
Frank, uh, you know I'll try to contribute, but, uhFreddy Riedenschneider
I don't care what it costs! This is when ya come together!
That's very generous.
The hell with it, Eddie!
They're just people like you and me, Ed. Remember that.
Uhhuh.
Just people. They gotta put up the big front so that people will trust them with their money. This is why the big lobby, Ed. But they put their pants on one leg at a time. Just like you and me.
Uhhuh.
They too use the toilet, Ed. In spite of appearances. And their money will be secured by the barbershop. A rock. A *rock*, the barbershop. I mean, how long has *this* place been here?
...Did you make that up?
Oh, no. That was written by Mr Ludwig van Beethoven.
That was quite something.
He wrote some beautiful piano sonatas.
That was something. I'm Ed Crane.
I know who you are, Mr Crane.
...I'm Rachel Abundas. Everyone calls me Birdy.
Sorry, I just didn't remember.
...Huh?
Haven't I seen you up in ladies' wear?
I don't work here. My wife does.
Uhhuh. Some beat, huh?
Yeah.
Check out the rack on that broad in the angora.
Uhhuh.
Thanks. Thanks for seeing me, at home.
Oh, hell. Drink?
No thanks.
Sure you don't need one?
I'm fine.
OK. Boy. Jesus!
Yeah. What do I, uh...
Well, of course, I, uh, it's out of my league, criminal stuff. I do, uh, probate, real estate, title search, uh... I'd be absolutely worthless, something like this. Absolutely worthless.
'Scuse me, just finished dinner. Um. Frankly, Doris'd be better off with the county defender.
He a good man?
Bert's OK, sure, he's a good man. I won't kid you though, Ed, nobody around here has any experience with this kind of, er... And I hear they're bringing a prosecutor up from Sacramento. Capital offense. Taking it seriously... Hmm...
So
Taking it seriously.
So, who should I
Coffee, Ed?
I'm fine. Thanks.
No thanks, honey.
...So, uh, who should I
Well, there's Lloyd Garroway in San Francisco. Probityyou know, no one ever said anything iffy about Lloyd Garroway. Conservative. Jury might like that. Might like that here.
...Probity.
Uhhuh. Is he the best then, for, uh...
Well, the best, the moneyisnoobject best, for a criminal case, any lawyer would tell you Freddy Riedenschneider. Out of Sacramento. 'Course, I don't know how you're fixed for money.
Uhhuh. He's the, uh...
Yeah, the best.
Ed, how're you holding up?
I'm OK, Walter, thanks.
I'm so damn sorry about your loss. Terrible thing. Just damn terrible.
Yeah.
Birdy's in the parlorI'm on long distance here.
Sure, Walter. Thanks.
Look, I don't wanna waste your time so I'll eat while we talk. Ya mind? *You* don't mind. So while I'm in town I'll be staying at the Hotel Metropole, the Turandot Suite. Yeah, it's goofy, the suites're named after operas; room's OK though, I poked around. I'm having 'em hold it for me on account of I'll be back and forth. In addition to my retainer, you're paying hotel, living expenses, secretarial, private eye if we need to make inquiries, headshrinker should we go that way. We'll talk about appeals if, as and when. For right now, has she confessed?
No. Of course not. She didn't do it.
Good! That helps. Not that she didn't do it, that she didn't confess. Of course, there's ways to deal with a confession, but that's good!one less thing to think about. Now. Interview. I'm seeing her tomorrow. You should be there. Three o'clock. One more thing: you keep your mouth shut. I get the lay of the land, I tell *you* what to say. No talking out of school. What's out of school? Everything's out of school. I do the talking; you keep your trap shut. I'm an attorney, you're a barber; you don't know anything. Understood?
...OK.
Good! Any questions give me a ring Turandot suite; if I'm out leave a message. You sure you don't want anything? No?
I knew about it. Big Dave told me about it, and the spot he was putting himself in by getting the money.
Terrific. Your husband backs you up. That's terrific.
...You've gotta give me something to work with. Freddy Riedenschneider is good, but he's not a magician. He can't just wave his little wand in the air and make a plausible defense materialize. Look. Look at what the other side is gonna run at us. They got the company books, prepared by you*cooked* by youthat's Motive. They got a murder scene *you* had access to. That's Opportunity. They got that little trimmer thing he was stabbed in the throat witha *dame's* weapon
It was Big Dave's.
don't interrupt methat's Means. They got a fine upstanding pillar of the business community as a victim, and then they got *you*, a disgruntled numberjuggling underling who on the day in question was drunk as a skunk and whose alibi for the time in question is being passed out at home, alone.
*I* was with her.
OK, we forget the blackmail. *You* killed him. How come?
He and Doris... were having an affair.
OK, how did you know?
I... just knew. A husband knows.
Will anyone else say they knew?
I don't know. I don't think so.
How did you get into the store?
I took Doris's keys.
Will anyone say they saw you there? On your way there? In there? On your was back?
...I don't think so.
Will anyone corroborate and goddamn part of your story at all?
...I don't get it.
Look, chum, this is a guy, from what I understand, told everybody he was a war hero, right? Island hopping, practically liberated the Pacific all by himself with a knife in one hand and a gun in the other and twenty yards of Jap guts between his teeth.
Yeah.
And now it turns out this dope spent the war sitting on his ass in some boatyard in San Diego. You asked for blackmail, let me give you blackmail: Mr HaleFellowWellMet, about to open his own business here, has been lying to everybody in this town for the last four years, probably including half the people sitting on that jury. Well, it finally caught up with himthese dopes, it always does; someone threatened to spill it. Somebody knew his dirty little secret, just like your wife says. They called, they demanded money...
...Did Big Dave mention that it was something about his war service? I don't know, I wasn't there, *you'll* have to tell *us*. Maybe he specified, maybe he didn't; I'm not putting words in your mouth; the point is that this liar, this cynical manipulator, this man who through his lies sneered and belittled the sacrifice and heroism of all our boys who *did* serve and bleed and puke and die on foreign shores, and who made a fool out of this entire town, turns to *you* to help him out of his jam. Fatassed sonofabitch!
So... who... who actually
Who? *Who?!* I don't know who! But the point is that if Mr Prosecutor over there had devoted half the time he's spent persecuting *this* woman to even the most cursory investigation of this schmoe's past, then we might *know* who! But we can't *know* what really happened! Because of Fritz, or Werner, or whatever the hell his name is! And because Me Prosecutor is *also* a lazy fatassed sonofabitch who decided it's easier to victimize your wife! Because it's easier *not* to look! Because the more you look, the less you know! But the beauty of it is, we don't *gotta* know! We just gotta show that, goddamnit, *they* don't know. Reasonable doubt. Science. The atom. *You* explain it to me. Go ahead. Try.
Not guilty, your honor...
I tried to tell him the whole story, but Riedenschneider stopped me. He said the story made his head hurt, and anyway he didn't see any way of using it without putting me on the hot seat for the murder of Big Dave...
...I gotta hand it to him, he tossed a lot of sand in their eyes. He talked about how I'd lost my place in the universe...
...a puny player on the great world's stage...
...how I was too ordinary to be the criminal mastermind the D.A. made me out to be, how there was some greater scheme at work that the state had yet to unravel, and he threw in some of the old truth stuff he hadn't had a chance to trot out for Doris...
...who among us is in a position to say...
...He told them to look at melook at me close. That the closer they looked the less sense it would all make, that I wasn't the kind of guy to kill a guy, that I was the barber, for Christ's sake...
...and inflame the passions of these twelve fine men and women...
...Well, he got his mistrial, but the well had run dry. There was nothing left to mortgage; Riedenschneider went home and the court appointed Lloyd Garroway...
...My first instinct was, no, no, the whole idea was nuts. But maybe that was the instinct that kept me locked up in the barbershop, nose against the exit, afraid to try turning the knob. What if I could get the money?
Honey?
Mm.
Where you going?
Me? Us! The party at Nirdlinger'sI told you last week, for the Christmas Push.
Yeah, right.
Come on, get ready. It's important.
Nah, go ahead. I'm not big on parties.
Oh, don't be a grump.
...What a knucklehead.
Who?
Dave.
How's that?
Ahh...
...Money problems. He's thinking about canceling the Annex.
So?
*That means I don't run Nirdlinger's!*
Mm.
...What's so damn strange about that?
I didn't say a word.
'Gratulations, Gina. It's so goddamn wonderful.
Congratulations, Gina.
Life is so goddamn wonderful, you almost won't believe it.
Honey...
It's just a goddamn bowl of cherries, I'm sure.
Honey.
How are you?
I don't know what's going on. I
What happened to you?
...I don't know what happened to Big Dave. I know some of it. Irregularities in my books, they said. Can I explain it.
You don't have to
I helped him cook the books, Ed. I did do that.
You don't have to tell them anything. We're getting you a lawyer.
I know all about that. But I don't know how much to tell them.
Don't tell 'em anything. We're getting you Freddy Riedenschneider.
Should I... should I tell you why?
You don't have to tell me anything.
...My books used to be perfect. Anyone could open them up, make sense of the whole goddamn store.
Honey...
I knew we'd pay for it.
...Doris
Nah, don't say anything. I'm alright.
Rye.
Just coffee.
You sure you don't want something stiffer?
...Doesn't become a matter of public record unless there's foul play. However. I don't believe I'm *prohibited* from telling you this. I guess I'm not obliged to tell you, either. I don't exactly know. But if *I* were the man, I'd want to be told.
Told what?
I, uh... thanks.
...Hell, I hope I've done the right thing.
My wife and I had not... performed the sex act in many years.
How ya doin', Ed?
OK. Take your coat, Ann?
...Were you in the service, Ed?
No, Dave, I wasn't.
...That's quite a wife you got there.
Mm.
She's a rare one.
How's business, Dave?
Couldn't be better. These're boom times in retailing. We're opening another store, Big Dave's Annex, there on Garson. This is strictly haberdasherycasual wear, pyjamas, ladies' foundations and undergarments. Matter of fact, I'm thinking of making Doris the comptroller. How're things at the, uh, the barbershop?
All right, I guess.
...Fine. Fine. Well, you might want to drop by the Annex when we open, update your suit'course, you're in the smock all day.
...Say, where do you get those things anyway?
Specialty store down in Sacramento.
Uhhuh.
...Ed, I...
What is it, Dave?
Uhhuh.
Hell, I, I'm not proud of it. But, uh, that's not the worst of it. I got a note. A blackmail note. You know, come across or everybody knows.
Uhhuh.
Well, you know what that would do to me.
I guess it would be pretty awkward.
Awkward?! Ann'd throw me out on my keister! Hell, it's her family's store*her* store. I serve at the indulgence of the goddamn ownership, Ed.
Uhhuh.
I only work here! And the lady's husband would know... Oh, Jesus.
How much to they want, Dave?
$10,000! I don't know what to do, Ed. I don't know what I *can* do. Even though I know who the sonofabitch is.
...You know... who *who* is?
The sonofabitch. The blackmailer. It's, uh, it's no one you know. It's a businessman from Sacramento. A goddamn pansy, Ed. He tried to rope me into some crackpot scheme; I heard him out and then told him to go to hell. And the very next day, the very next day, Ed, I get blackmailed for the same amount.
Would he... it sounds pretty obvious.
Well, I guess he don't care that it's obvious.
Mm. How, uh... how did he know that
He's staying at the hotel I've gone to with, uh, with the lady in question. Must've seen us.
...Oh, Jesus.
...Why don't you just pay him, Dave?
That's my capitalization on the Annex! *My* operation, Ed! Christ almighty. That's what I was just talking to Doris about, a way of getting the money from the store that we could hide from Ann.
Mm.
Embezzling, Ed. From my own goddamn wife!
Please, Ed.
But it's...
Please, Ed.
Your place?
I'm at Nirdlinger's. Let yourself in.
OK.
...Dave?
Come on in.
...It ruined me. This money. No annex. I'm all shot to hell.
So you paid the guy?
...What kind of man *are* you?
...Huh?
What kind of man *are* you?
Big Dave
I'd understand if you'd walked in here. Socked me in the nose. Whatever. I deserved it.
I, uh...
I'm not proud of what I did. But *you*.
A goose, friend. I was chasing a wild goose. Ed, have you ever heard of venture capital?
Uh
Well, it's the wildest goose there is. Risk money. Very speculative. Except, Ed, in certain situations, it's not, see? I thought I had a prospect here. Well, I make the haul up and this lousy soandso tells me his situation has changedall his capital's gonna be tied up in expansion plans of his own. Thank you, mother! Pop goes another bubble! It's only the biggest business opportunity since Henry Ford and I can't seem to interest a soul!
That right.
It's called dry cleaning. You heard me right, brother, 'dry cleaning' wash without water, no suds, no tumble, no stress on the clothes. It's all done with chemicals, friend, and your garments end up crisp and fresh. And here's the capper: no shrinkage.
Huh.
That's right! Dry cleaningremember the name. It's going to revolutionize the laundry industry, and those that get in early are gonna bear the fruit away. All I need is $10,000 to open my first store, then I use its cash flow to finance another, and so on leap frog, bootstrap myself a whole chain. Well, me and a partner. Cleanliness, friend. There's money in it. There's a future. There's room to grow... Say, that's looking pretty good. Let's see it with the hairpiece on...
...Ed Crane. Remember? Today?
Sorry, friend, I, uh, you got me at a disadvantage.
I'm, uh, I'mthe barber.
Jesus! The barber! I'll be a sonofagun. Why didn't you say so? 'Coursethe barber.
...I didn't recognize you without the smock. Did Idamndid I leave something at the shop?
No. I might be interested in that, uh, business proposition
You got the dough?!
I can get it, yeah.
Come in, come in, siddown over there. Coffee?
No. Itell me
Sure.
What's involved, aside from putting up the money? What're you looking for the partner to do?
Do? Hell, nothing. Well, you'll want to keep tabs on your investment, of course, but I'm looking for a silent partner. I've done the research, I've contacted the vendors, the deal is set. I'm just looking for venture capital, friend. Disappear if you want, check in whenever you likeI want the dough; I don't take attendance.
And how do we share
Fiftyfifty, straight down the line. You and me. Finance and expertise. Soyou've got the dough then, do ya?
I'll have it in a week.
Well, I'll be damned. The barber! And I thought this trip was a bust. Well...
...it just goes to show, when one door slams shut, another one opens. Here's to ya, uh...
Ed.
...Was that a pass?
Maybe.
You're out of line, mister.
No problem!
Way out of line.
Right! Strictly business.
Yeah.
...You bring a check?
Cash.
Cash?!
...Usually we do this kind of thing with a bank draft. But cashthat's fineit's all the same in the end dough's dough, huh?
Sure.
I got the paperwork here. Partnership papers here, they reflect our agreement: fiftyfifty on the net, I supply professional services, you supply the capital. I'll give you a receipt on the dough there, huh?
Yeah.
Pretty straightforward, but I don't know if you wanna show this stuff to a lawyer
It's OK.
Yeah, screw 'em, huh? Pay 'em to tangle it up and then you pay 'em to untangle it, what's the point?
...Just a second here, I'll give you a receipt on the, uh... Whoa, Nellie... Oh, by the way, we didn't talk about this, I, uh, I think I'm gonna call the place Tolliver's, after me, you know, I didn't think you were much interested in, uh
That'll be fine.
Yeah, good. Lemme just, uh...
...Yeah, that's it. As per our discussion.
Uhhuh.
Well, there it is. Writ large in legal escriture, next step is
Look, uh... Creighton...
...You're not gonna screw me on this?
*Screw* youJesus! Take it to a lawyer! No, I insist! This is *dry* cleaning, this is not some flyby night thing here! I must say, I've been an entrepreneur for thirteen years and I've never
All right.
And I've never been askedLook, you want the dough back? You know who I am! You
OK.
...You are ze fahzer?
No. Uh... family friend.
I speak to you on ze phone, non? You have a special interest in music?
Uhhuh.
Ah yes, a music lover.
Well, I don't pretend to be an expert.
Ah.
...Mm.
Well? How'd she do?
Ze girl?... She seems like a very nice girl. She *plays*, monsieur, like a very nice girl. Ztinks. Very nice girl. However, ztinks.
I don't understand.
Is not so hard to understand. Her playing, very polite.
Did she make mistakes?
Mistake, no, it says Eflat, she plays Eflat. Pingping. Hit the right note, always. Very proper.
I don't understand, no mistakes, she's just a kidI thought you taught the, uh, the
Ah, but that is just what I cannot teach. I cannot teach her to have a soul. Look, monsieur, play the piano, is not about the fingers. *Done* with the fingers, yes. But the music, she is inside. Inside, monsieur...
...she can go up there.
Well, look, I don't claim to be an expert
Then you listen to me, for I am expert. That girl, she give me a headache. She cannot play. Nice girl. Very clever hands. Nice girl. Someday, I think, maybe, she make a very good typist.
...You don't like the music out there?
It's OK, I guess. No, I don't really. I'm not big on music, ordinarily.
Hello, Rachel.
I'm so sorry... I was sorry to hear.
Yeah. Thanks.
He was deaf when he wrote this.
Who?
Beethoven. He created it, and yet he never actually heard it. I suppose he heard it all in his head, somehow.
Hi, Mr Crane.
Hello, Birdy. I thought that was very good.
Oh, in there? I messed up a little bit in the scherzo. I guess, if nobody noticed, it's OK. Mr Crane, this is Tony, a friend of mine. Tony, Mr Crane.
Hello, Tony.
Hello, Mr Crane.
Hello, Birdy.
We haven't seen you since... I'm terribly sorry.
Yeah.
We've certainly missed you.
Birdy, I've been doing a lot of thinking. There are a lot of things that haven't worked out for me. Life has dealt me some bum cards...
...or maybe I just haven't played 'em right, I don't know. But you're
Pop doesn't like people smoking in here.
Sure... Sure, it's his house.
That's what he keeps telling me.
Anyway, uh... my point is you're young. A kid really, your whole life ahead of you. But it's not too soon to start thinking... to start making opportunities for yourself. Before it all washes away.
Well, sure, I guess. Pop says so too. I work pretty hard at school.
That's swell. However, the music, if you want to pursue it, well, the lessons from Mrs Swan, they'll only take you so far. There's this guy in San Francisco, I've made inquiries, everybody says he's the best. Trained lots of people who've gone on to have big concert careers, symphony orchestras, the works. His name is Jacques Carcanogues. I'm not sure I'm pronouncing it right. Anyway, he's a Frenchman.
Boy.
You've got talent, anyone could see that. And he's the best. If he thinks a student has talent, he'll take 'em on for next to nothing. You're a cinch to be accepted, I could cover the cost of the lessons, like I said, it's pretty modest
Oh, Mr Crane
I have to do it. I can't stand by and watch more things go down the drain. You're young, you don't understand.
Geez, Mr Crane, I don't know. I hadn't really thought about a career or stuff.
I know you haven't. Look, just go meet him as a favor to me. I talked to this guy. Hope I pronounced his name right. He sounded very busy, but he's not a bad egg; he loosened up a little when I told him how talented you are. He agreed to see you this Saturday. He said maybe you were a diamond in the rough. His words.
Geez, Mr Crane.
Just see him, as a favor to me.
...I stank, didn't I?
He didn't say that.
But more or less.
Look, I'm no expert, but
It doesn't matter, Mr Crane.
I'm sure there's a dozen teachers better than this clown. More qualified. Goddamn phony.
But it doesn't matter. Really, I'm not interested in playing music professionally.
...I'm not certain I'll have a career at all, and if I do, I'll probably be a veterinarian.
...Uhhuh.
I do appreciate the interest you've taken, though.
Ah... it's nothing.
I'm only sorry that I didn't play better for you. I know it would've made you happy. You know what you are?
Huh.
You're an enthusiast.
Huh. Yeah. Maybe...
...I guess I've been all wet.
But I do appreciate it, Mr Crane...
...I wanted to make you happy.
Birdy
It's OK...
...No, please.
Please, Mr Crane, it's OK, please
Hello, Ed.
Ann. Will you come in?
...I'm so sorry about your loss.
Yes. Thank you.
Of course, you know, Doris had nothing to do with it. Nothing at all.
Oh, I know. Don't worry, Ed. I came to tell you...
Yes, Ann?
And you should tell Doris...
Yes?
We went camping last summer. In Eugene, Oregon. *Outside* of Eugene, Ed.
...Yes?
At night, there were lightswe both saw them. We never told anyone, outside of our official report.
Ann
A spacecraft. I saw the creatures. They led Big Dave onto the craft. He never told anyone what they did, outside of his report. Of course he told *me*. No one else.
Ann
The government knows. I cannot repeat it to you. But this thing goes deep, Ed. This was not your wife. I goes deep, and involves the government. There is a great deal of fear. You know how certain circles would find itthe knowledgea threat. They try to limit it, and
Ann, will you come in, sit down, maybe have a drink?
Sometimes knowledge is a curse, Ed. After this happened, things changed. Big Dave... he never touched me again.
Pleasure.
Have we met? There's something I can't quite 
EMI in London. I work with Ian.
Ah.
You must know Ian.
I don't.
Great bloke. Really turned things around there. 180 degrees.
I suppose that's good, unless things were fine the way they were.
Oh, I think a shakeup was in order. Definitely. Otherwise, people get lazy, don't they? Forgetful. Start thinking they can get away with things. Gotta shake 'em up now and again, make 'em pay attention.
Thanks. You, too.
Be seein' you.
What.
Tell me.
Tell you ...
About Jenny. Tell me about Jenny. About the <u>deal</u>. Whatever fucking deal you had to kill my daughter for when she found out about it, you bastard.
She could've had the deal! I would've handed it to her if she wanted. I would have given her everything.
<u>Why</u> then. Why did you do it!
Hello there.
What are you doing here?
Exercising my visitation rights.
Since when?
I miss my kids.
They're at college. Or doesn't your accountant even tell you where the money goes anymore.
You've made it ... brighter.
I don't want you here, Terry.
Sure you do.
What kind of trouble are you in?
No trouble.
Surely you can think of somewhere else to take one of your chippies for a quick getaway.
Susan.
Where's ... what'shisname  Fred 
 You know his name is Frank.
Is he here?
You know I don't live with him.
Go to him. Go to his studio, or writers workshop or artists colony, Esselin retreat, nudist camp 
Are you finished?
In a couple of days this whole thing 
Who's looking for you?
Go now.
It's been five minutes and I'm packing to leave again. I can't believe this.
That's right, your life is Shit, and I'm to blame. It's that simple.
How'd you get in here.
Walked.
You walked. What the hell are you doing here.
Looking for a bloke named Valentine. Know him?
He's expecting you?
I doubt it.
So why would he want to see you.
I have a message for him. About Jennifer Wilson.
Jennifer Wilson.
You know her?
Yeah. I know her, all right. She came down here once, stirred up a shitstorm. We lost a full day's work, took me weeks to get back on schedule. If she hadn't a' been Terry's woman I would've broke her jaw. 'Course, she's nobody's problem now.
Is Valentine here?
What do you think?
Where is he, then?
Listen, get the fuck out of here before you get hurt. Who the fuck do you think you are, waltzing in here, asking questions?
How much.
Five thousand.
Hey.
I got half.
Makin' trouble for someone?
Yeah.
Which kind?
The forever kind.
Ever take a look at the women who work in pet stores? Wow.
Good luck.
Jesus, are you gay enough or what.
Very attractive. Good idea. Now I <u>really</u> want to fuck you.
... you can always tell the ones who'll do anal.
Kinda makes you wonder why more people don't put a bullet through their fuckin' skulls, doesn't it.
Looks like they just airbrushed the dick out of his mouth.
Why don't they have TV shows about people whose daily lives you'd be interested in watching. Y'know. Like SKINNY LITTLE WEAKLING. Or BIG FAT GUY. SICK OLD MAN. FAMILY OF LOSERS. Wouldn't that be good?
Two blacks and a Mexican in a car. Who's driving?
I don't know.
The L.A.P.D.
Maybe she doesn't even know the English guy.
Avery said she was tight with his daughter.
That don't mean nothin'.
She's nice lookin'.
So what.
I dunno. I just said she's nice lookin'.
And I said so what. You think she's any happier?
What d'you mean, any happier?
Any happier than any other asshole in life.
Straight rotation, no shit, call your shot.
Lemme break.
We coulda used the other twoandahalf grand.
There's more than a measly few grand in this.
There is?
Something's on.
What?
I happen to know more about Mr. Whatever hisnameis than he thinks I know about him and his operation.
You do?
You bet.
Like what.
Like he'd never hire me for real. Not weektoweek. I don't have the credentials. He thinks I'm just a sociopath, someone he can turn to when he needs "plausible denial."
Well, we blew it, didn't we? He ain't wrong.
"He ain't wrong." Listen, I know this asshole who <u>did</u> just go to work for him. Fulltime. And this dickhead's parents just told me he took a road trip up the coast. <u>That's</u> the type of individual gets hired, someone who'll shoot his mouth off to his family while on the job.
I don't get it.
I don't know who that English guy is. Some kind of   courier or something. Maybe a seller. Maybe a buyer. But Mr. <u>Avery</u> wanted him, those jigs wanted him  and I betcha there's a briefcase somewhere.
What's in it?
Drugs? Cash? Both if we're lucky.
How we gonna get that lucky?
While they're all fucking each other over ... couple of parties like us could move right in.
Yeah, that's right.
I can never decide what I like better. Leaving home, or coming back.
I would have preferred staying home, me.
You're a reluctant traveller, then.
You'll be looking forward to getting back, then.
Yeah. Another little matter needs attending to soon as I return.
No rest for the wicked.
Been away a lot.
Where else?
Out on a oil rig. In the North Sea. Nine years.
Nine years? Is that legal?
Well, time off for good behavior, you know. I shouldn't have even been there  it was these other blokes who shoulda gone in my place. I got lumbered with the job they were responsible for. I don't mind pulling me own cart, but not someone else's, know what I mean.
But you stuck it out, anyway, all that time.
I had to, didn't I. Nothing else for it. Then just when I'd finished my nine years  my contract  wallop, I had to bugger off to the States.
Sounds like you need a rest.
Could do, yeah.
But first I gotta give these lads a talking to, these geezers what sent me up the river, in a manner of speaking.
The ones whose burden you took upon your own shoulders.
Yeah.
Don't you work with Ian?
Ian?
I could swear I met you with Ian at the EMI offices in London.
Sorry. Wasn't me.
You sure?
Unless I'm not who I think I am.
That's too bad. Ian's got a good thing going over there.
Yeah?
Turned that place completely around. 180 degrees.
No kidding.
What I like about Ian, he believes in a chain of command, but not a chain of respect, you understand what I'm saying?
Right. Chain of respect. That's good, that.
Yeah. I really admire the guy. Well. Good to meet you.
Yeah. Cheers, mate.
Valentine had himself a party, I hear.
My client has already given a statement regarding yesterday's events.
A <u>statement</u>? I wouldn't mind getting a statement. You see, <u>my</u> client  the United States Government  would love to get a statement about a few of the deals going down with your client.
Deals? My client is involved in any number of deals at any given moment. You'd have to be more specific.
Your client have a deal in Long Beach? How about downtown? There's some folks there  oh, wait, they're all dead. Any of this ring a bell?
My client is an entrepreneur. I am his lawyer, not his business manager.
So you wouldn't have any idea how your client continues to make so much fucking money.
He's always been very forwardthinking. He invested wisely.
Where is he now?
He had urgent business in the north.
There's one thing I don't understand. The thing I don't understand ... is every motherfucking thing you're saying.
Look, mush, you're the guv'nor here, I can see that, I'm on your manor now, right. So there's no need to get out of your pram. I'm Johnnycomelately to all this. Whatever the bollocks between you and this slag Valentine, it's got nothing to do with me. I don't wanna know.
Well, I'll tell you. I believe this Valentine screwed me out of a fair sum of money.
I can well believe it. I'm sure he has done, son. He's about as straight as a dog's hind leg.
But I can't be sure. I don't even know who he is. He's too insulated. Too many layers around him.
Your guess is as good as mine, mate. I'm here on another matter entirely.
Yeah, I guess you are.
Good job your lot showed up when they did or it would've been <u>me</u> for the high jump.
That dude who works for Valentine. He's the one sent those guys after you. You know that.
Yeah. Shouldn't wonder. Must've done.
So what's your beef, pal?
Nothing financial. Strictly personal. I can see how all this importexport malarkey might give rise to confusion where I'm concerned. A foreigner, showing up unexpectedly, like.
It was you. Downtown.
Eh?
Because that wasn't anything to do with me. And suspicion has been cast in my direction. Didn't make any sense. Choosing those shitheads over me, cutting me out of the deal, then screwing them over too.
No, I can reassure you on that point. Valentine was just as surprised by that turn of events as you.
He'd already grabbed more than his allotted cut. Didn't think he'd be so bold as to take all of it.
All of what?
Of the deal, man.
Oh, yeah, right. The deal.
But if you're mad at him too and he's mad at you ... that must make us pals.
As you prefer, squire. As you prefer.
In which case I'll just do what I usually do.
And that is?
What am I doing?
Had a feeling it was you.
You look alike.
Perhaps it was the smoke.
Not her brand.
She used to pinch 'em off me. Funny that. One thing she never tried to get me to stop.
Why did you come here?
Wanted to talk to you, didn't I?
No, why did you come here?
Sort a few things out.
Been busy, have you.
How d'you mean?
It's been a while.
I was skint  didn't have no money to get here.
That's not what I heard.
What was that, then?
I heard you were  what's that adorable phrase?  "at Her Majesty's pleasure."
It was the bars, then.
In any case, I don't suppose the salary you make sewing mailbags is really commensurate with international airline travel.
Sewing mailbags? Me? Never did an honest day's work in my life, dear. Wasn't about to start when I was in stir  not with all that leisure time on my hands.
And not with all that buried loot you had waiting for you when you got out. From the Wembley Staduim job, wasn't it? Pink Floyd concert receipts. Jenny would've been ... fourteen at the time?
Hardly buried. Earning interest, love. Earning interest in an offshore account. Tidy little premium per annum, that.
Well, that kind of security can't be bought. Must be more comforting than a daughter to greet you.
Here, aren't you gonna let me in.
Try calling me again.
... No, I went in for more improving pastimes. Philosophy classes, language courses, European history, all that lark. Did you know that in Paris in the Eighteenth Century there were more rats in people's houses than there were people in people's houses.
Sounds like Beverly Hills.
Here, are you always this sarky?
Sarcastic, moi? Maybe I'll mellow when my ship comes in. It's expected any day now. I'm all packed and ready to go.
Weren't you on a television series?
If it played in England somebody owes me money. Who told you that  Eddie?
Said it went on for donkey's years.
Three seasons. They found that's the limit of human tolerance when it comes to following the adventures of a family of Mormons on the Chisum Trail. I was wife number three  the ingenue.
Oh, it just ended, then.
Now who's being sarcastic?
When you've lost as many years as I have, love, puts things in perspective, know what I mean.
I'm sorry. I guess the rest of us have no excuse for wondering where the time went. It must've been the bars.
I can't believe Jenny told you all that. About me. She was always so embarrassed.
Not embarrassed.
Ashamed.
Not ashamed.
Disappointed.
She never told Eddie, though.
She never told anyone else. About the convict strain  or is it stain? No, I was privileged. I was someone who helped Jenny efface her past.
How'd you manage that, then.
When I'm not honing my craft in episodic television I do doubleduty as a voice coach. Not that her accent would have hobbled her progress. Not with that look.
Yeah, well, she started all that in London.
Modelling.
Learnin' 'ow to speak proper. Central School of Speech and Drama. It's no doddle gettin' in there, y'know. At seventeen. They offered her a place at RADA n' all, only she'd've had to wait till the next session and she was always in hurry to get on, was Jenny. She could talk posh without any training, when she was kneehigh to a grasshopper. Show up the old man, you know.
You weren't disappointed in her, then.
In Jenny? 'Course not. How could I be. 'Course I wasn't.
She was twentyone when she came to me. ... Straight from leaving you.
Footloose and fancy free.
She was happy here. However the two of you might have parted. Don't think she wasn't.
When did you get in?
Yesterday. Afternoon.
You haven't been lurking outside my building all day.
No, I had  some other matters to attend to, you know. Getting a car sorted ...
I might've been away for the weekend.
Well, I reckoned, Saturday night, if you were goin' out, you'd probably have to come home first.
And you've seen Eddie Rama.
Yeah, saw Eddie, yeah. Me and him are muckers.
I should really give him a call. He's a character, isn't he. Well, not to you. I meant to us squares in the outside world.
He give me your address.
I gave him yours. Said, here, you want to write, I think this is a relative. I guess I thought I was being true to Jenny. Who told me she didn't have a father  before proceeding of course to tell me why.
Well, don't suppose she did, really, most of her life. On her own after her mum died. Aunts and uncles for a time  and then the bright lights beckoned.
Were you still married at the time  to Jenny's mother, I mean?
Nah, we split up when Jenny was six. Her second husband done a runner after she got sick. They give me compassionate leave from Parkhurst to go visit her in hospital. We were always mates, me and Jenny's mum. I like to think they're together again now. Y'know. Heavenly choir.
The address Jenny gave me, that wasn't a prison, was it?
Nah, accommodation address.
What's that, like a P.O. box.
Something like that, yeah.
Where you get your bank statements.
I already knew. Knew beforehand. When was it supposed to have happened?  two o'clock in the morning, Eddie said.
That's what was estimated.
Eight hours difference between here and London. Would've been, what, ten in the morning, my time. I was just coming out on the yard. Now, I was in the habit of saving my newspaper till then. Bit of fresh air, stretch me legs  well, stretch the day out, really, that's what you wanna do. And I'll tell ya: I couldn't open the paper. Could not pry the pages apart  it was like they was glued together. That's how weak my hands went. Thought I was having heart attack, only I knew I wasn't. Bloke come up to me, he says, Dave, he says, you've gone all white. I said, fuck me, I've been in prison half my life, what d'ya expect. But he was dead on, 'cause I could feel the blood drain right out of me head. And I knew ... Something had happened to Jen.
Do you even know who Terry Valentine is?
Well, I gathered something from the article what Eddie sent me. Some sort of pop music producer, wasn't it.
Lives high off the hog and waits for the next big thing. Like me  but on a grander scale of failure.
Now, you shouldn't run yourself down. My employer, Mr. Lindgren 
 Your employer?
 Mr. Lindgren.
Who's Mr. Lindgren?
My employer.
What line is he in.
Proprietor of a London firm. Of longstanding.
I see.
Based in London, but with international concerns.
I bet.
Various enterprises, style of thing.
I thought you said you never did an honest day's work in your life.
Well, not to say Mr. Lindgren is dishonest, exactly.
Right.
Anyhow, he's always saying to me, Dave, never run yourself down, son  'cause there'll always be plenty of people willing to do it for you.
In what capacity are you employed by this Mr. Lindgren?
This and that. Y'know. Ways and means.
 When he wants someone run down, you're willing to do it for him.
So what's the deal. You and Terry Valentine at twenty paces. Is that what this is about.
Why not.
Are you serious.
Have you ever known me not to be.
You fuckin' guys and your dicks.
What'd you want me to do. Stay at home, twiddlin' me thumbs. Doing sweet F.A. [Fuck All].
You don't believe it was a car accident.
What do you think.
Terry's never going to give you satisfaction. Not the type.
Depends, don' it.
On what. What makes you so certain.
I'll bloody well ask him.
There's the phone. You want his number.
Jenny was supposed to come to my place that night. She called me, asked if she could come over. She and Terry had been  having some trouble. Lately. I don't know about what. On this occasion, it reached some sort of crisis point.
She told you all about my details but not about his. Lovely.
She'd never called me like that before. She sounded more ... pissed off  angry  than upset or afraid. But she never turned up. I called the house but only got the answer machine. When they found her ... she'd been going the wrong way. Not the direction she'd have gone if she'd been coming to see me. Or coming <u>straight</u> to see me. Who knows. Maybe she just wanted to drive.
How did you come to have my address? Found it, did you. Among her things.
You think Terry gave me access to her things? Probably sold her clothes.
And how did you get it?
This town's been chewing my flesh since ... what we now refer to as "the early 70's." Christ, my past became nostalgia and no one even asked me.
Early 70's. I was away. Maidstone. Possibly Brixton.
These more highlights from the Zagat prison guide?
You don't seem bothered.
You don't know how I've compromised my standards.
Tell us about it.
It's too involved; a lifetime of non involvement. Anywhere else I'd be an interesting little number, here I'm just SAG number fortyeight thousand and one. SAG meaning Screen Actor's Guild.
Oh, I was gonna say ...
Still, there have been rewards. It's sunny. And some of the producers who call even have credits.
I can see the attraction.
What did you do? To make them take the early 70's away from you.
A jeweller's up the West End. We tunnelled our way under the shop floor from the public lavatory down the road. Filthy work. Trouble was, the bloody thing collapsed  <u>after</u> we'd made the grab, 'n all. Would you Adam n' Eve it.
You mean if they'd nabbed you before you actually broke and entered you would only have been charged with making a mess.
We were <u>lucky</u> to be nicked. Me and the lads went down there Sunday evening, we weren't discovered till the Monday. Good job we were still breathing.
It didn't discourage you, though.
Hey?
From pursuing your chosen profession.
I'll tell ya something: it made me a model prisoner. Put me right off any escape attempts. Tunnel my way to freedom after that experience? Not bloody likely.
I was inside once. I punched a cop at a demo.
Did you. What was that in aid of?
Who remembers.
Get seven years, did you?
Overnight. What about just now?
Just now? Overnight?
You <u>have</u> been away. Or is all this just new to you?
It's true. Has to be said. I got off to a slow start.
I don't believe it.
Honest. Didn't know where to look till I was 21.
Pushing the legal limit even then.
 they want Southern, I do Southern, they want Midwest, I do Midwest, they want tall, blonde, and twentytwo, I'm shit out of luck. One thing I can't do is English. Americans can't. Shouldn't even try. And Laurence Olivier couldn't do us.
You ever been to London?
Only in the movies.
I've 'ardly ever left it.
Yeah, well, you're here now   where <u>h</u>urricanes <u>h</u>ardly ever <u>h</u>appen.
I've got the hang of the driving. Found this place all right.
Stick with me, kid. Looks big when you get here but you can cover it in five minutes.
Not that I recall.
What about your grandmother?
Nah  she was married to me grandad  he was as bent as a boomerang  used to make knuckledusters down the shop. Crafty old sod.
He alive to see this?
Dropped dead in the stalls in the Odeon, Muswell Hill. Watching Doris Day.
What'd your father do?
Black market during the war.
I guess you're just habitual.
You sound like my fucking probation officer.
Won't he be looking for you about now?
Good luck to him. He couldn't find his prick if he didn't wear Yfronts.
Minor officials bother you, don't they?
Do us a favor. Can't even go have a slash without 'em saying, what're you going in there for?
I got a steady income  I'm on the dole.
A leech on the welfare state in addition. You don't miss a trick.
I fiddle it. They got me down as an immigrant with five kids.
Last time might as well've been the first. I remember all the times, don't I. Watching her grow up  in increments.
She told me you were a ghost in her life. Daddy the friendly ghost. Coming back to haunt her.
Well, she twigged by the time she was eight or nine that daddy wasn't in the Royal Marines or doing scientific research in the jungles of Borneo or playing Iago in a worldwide tour of OTHELLO.
Still, you could never ... do what she wanted.
She used to tell me she'd turn me in. Little kid. Ten year old. "If you're naughty, Dad, I'll tell on ya." She didn't want me sent down again, see. When I was planning some job. "I'll tell 'em, Dad, I promise I will. Here, look, I'm calling the Old Bill right now"  picking up the telephone. I can see her, the phone in her hand. Became a sort of joke between us. Only it wasn't a joke.
She never would have turned you in, not in a million years.
I know that. But as time went on ... well, it <u>wasn't</u> a joke, was it? She had a feeling about it  about the last job  how long I'd get the hook for. Said she wouldn't be there this time when I got out.
Where's Big Sur?
Up the coast.
How far?
I don't know  few hours, I guess.
Fancy it?
I could use a vacation. Of course, I keep forgetting, for you this <u>is</u> a vacation.
Never thought of that. Busman's holiday.
What's in Big Sur?
That's where Valentine's scarpered.
How do you know?
Bloke told me.
Friends and <u>colleagues</u>.
You can't count on very many people, that's the trouble. Number of times a decent job's been cocked up ...
Poor baby.
You're just on a higher plane, Wilson.
Too bleeding true, 'n' it.
What d'you say, Elaine?
Not much  you?
Same.
Uhhuh.
Last time I saw you, weren't you up for some equitywaiver thing?
Probably.
I was gonna be in that Michael Mann movie, you know  with Pacino and DeNiro. Got three callbacks.
Really.
Didn't get it.
Well, those are the breaks.
Not no more, they ain't. I quit that acting shit, man.
You just cooking then?
Hell, no. I started writing.
Hey, Elaine. You even know what he's saying half the time?
No, but I know what he means.
... Reminds me of Jennifer.
Hard to miss.
I thought maybe you just came for the ride.
I'd rather be with him than without him. I don't want to be found dead in L.A.
Edward Rama?
Eduardo. Rama.
You're home, then.
I didn't expect anyone.
No reason.
I mean, what has it been  six months?
Round about, yeah.
I didn't even know who I was writing to  just someone with the same last name. She never talked about any family.
It was better than a telegram.
Who done it, then?
Huh?
Snuffed her.
I never said nothin' about nothin' like that. No, no, no. That's not what I wrote to you.
No, but between the lines, eh? Mysterious circumstances, and that.
This bloke she was bunked up with. This Terry what'sit.
Terry Valentine.
Valentine. What's he got to say for himself?
I dunno. What's he gonna say? They had a fight that night, she drove away, she was upset? I don't even know the guy. Don't get me wrong, Jenny and me were friends, but we didn't travel in the same social circles. She had her life, I had mine.
What more is there.
I'm just sayin'  it was a steep hillside. There was no moon that night ...
Coulda happened to anyone, man. I never knew her to be reckless. I mean, sure, she would smoke a little grass, or something, have a few drinks. But that's it, nothing more than that.
No, not my girl. Selfcontrol, she had. Point of pride. And people don't change, do they.
I dunno ... Maybe they do.
Boomerang.
Y'what?
I knew when I was droppin' that letter into the mail slot it was gonna come back and smack me in the face. I did my time, okay? My sister, her ol' man's up in Chino right now doin' eight years.
This ain't your lot?
You kiddin', man? I don't need a wife and screamin' kids. I still got my youth.
I go to work, try to keep my life together, put all that shit behind me, man. What d'you want from me.
I only asked.
What, tryin' to catch him with another bird?
That's what I thought, man. But it was not a hotel or nothin' that we went to. It was someplace else.
Where abouts?
Bad place, man. Bad people. Some guys loading some trucks. Some kinda deal goin' down. I don't know and I don't care. Maybe they're shipping fava beans to Eskimos.
Did Jenny know?
Valentine wasn't even there. If he was into something, if she was involved  who can say. But I'll tell you something. She stood in front of these dudes, man. Eyeballing <u>them</u>. Checking <u>them</u> out. I felt like she was covering <u>my</u> ass that day.
What you gonna do, man? You gonna go to the cops?
Nah, coppers don't do nothing, do they.
Those streets up in the hills, man. Gotta be real careful, keep your eye on the ball. Two o'clock in the morning, it's dark, your mind is all agitated, you're drivin' a little too fast ... Those curves don't kid around.
You should talk to Elaine. That was her best friend.
She didn't write to me, did she.
She didn't know what to say. I thought someone should say something. To someone. With me it was, I don't know  Jenny liked me for some reason. I felt like I owed her.
Who'd Jenny get it off of  this grass or whatever?
Not me, man. I'm no drug dealer, what you think.
I think you didn't get that lot in the Navy, doing your National Service.
I already told you, man. Corcoran. Know what that is? State prison.
Nick's a nick, n' it? No matter what state you're in. State of remorse, most likely  for gettin' caught.
But that's not me anymore. That's when I was into the gang lifestyle. That's not who I am now. Five years in the joint  that's it for me, man.
You're kiddin' me, right?
What do I do, then, look in the bleedin' Yellow Pages?
These are not guys you can just go run a number on, man.
Thought perhaps there'd be dispensing machines, you know. Bung in your coins, come out with a .44 Magnum, fullyloaded.
Are you a resident of California? You gonna fill out forms, man? Do the background check? Go through a threeday waiting period?
Sod that. Gotta get back before my probation officer wonders where I've skived off to.
Probation? Man, you crazy. They shouldn't've let you outta your country, much less prison.
Travelling on a dodgy passport, n' all.
He don't have a concealed weapons permit.
Don't have time for a lot of paperwork, y'know. Just popped over on a quick visit.
No. Not at all. Do we?
Not me, man.
I mean, it's already a steal, n'it  what you said  four hundred for this one?
You hadda show up on a weekend. This weekend. Wouldn't've even been a gun show ... for another month.
Fucking out of order, that. Shouldn't be allowed.
Now what. You gonna take your new arsenal, go visit Terry Valentine, just like that? Boom bam boom.
It's only insurance. Can't be too careful. This Terry Valentine, he's probably a wonderful fella. They were together how long?
Five years, I think. Long time.
Well, there you are. Jen must've liked him.
Jenny told me she met him at the beach. Got blinded by his smile. You believe that shit? Son of a bitch never smiled at me. Buried her at a "private" service. Private for who. Him?
Hang about. I thought you said he come into the restaurant where you worked with Jenny.
He came in with Jenny to the restaurant where I work. That's not where they met.
And that's where you met Jenny.
No, no  Jenny used to work as a waitress. Before she met him. But that's not where she met me. Not in my restaurant.
How'd the two of you hook up, then?
Oh, Jenny was in my acting class.
Told you you wouldn't be able to see through that gate.
Gate's open. I had a butcher's at the house.
Who'd you butcher at the house?
Butcher's hook. Look. I don't much reckon those minders of his.
Huh?
He's brought in the heavy mob.
What?
Extra muscle. Bodyguards.
Has he?
They look a right load of wallies. Patrolling back and forth outside the gate, all ponced up like the fuckin' Household Cavalry. Watch it.
That was one of them?
See what I mean? Wearing bloomin' uniforms n' all.
What's so fucking funny?
Those aren't guards. They're valets.
Valets. What d'ya mean valets. What is he, then, the Earl of fucking Doncaster?
<u>Valets</u>. They park cars. He's having a party.
Valets, eh? Aren't we all ladeda.
I thought you just wanted to check out the house, man.
Well, that's what we're doin', n' it.
No one else is even here yet.
First in, first out, that's me.
What are we standing on?
Faith.
Bring the motor around. Bang out in front, right?
You goin' back inside?
One thing I need.
Steady on.
You steady on, man. What the fuck else did you do back there.
Why didn't you just kill him, you had the chance.
That would be too easy.
Too easy?
He's gotta know why.
You think a fuckin' guy like that ever will? What more do you want, man?
I've been wondering something.
Again?
Do you have any friends, man?
Yeah, I suppose. Call 'em that, yeah. Down the boozer Saturday night. Meet some of the lads.
Useless gits. I was gonna do the Post Office once.
What post office?
The lot. The whole British bloody Post Office. I had a brilliant plan  all worked out  work of genius, it was. Could I get anybody interested? No  they're too busy pinching orange squash from the milkman. Lazy sods. Jumble sale on in Watford, they'll be up at the crack of dawn.
Man knows what he likes.
Lookin' good.
That's a highend item. Total reliability.
What'd you call that  the Protector?
Yes, sir. Won't find a better CQC on the market.
CQ what?
Close Quarters Combat. Keep one in my own home.
Oh really? Where you from?
England. Only, we saw there was a show on, thought I might pick something up for a price, type of thing.
You came to the right place, sir. My wife's second cousin is English. Well, ScotchIrish. Can I interest you in a holster?
Just luck, this, really. Never been to one of these before.
You're in gun country now, my friend.
Been to the Boat Show.
Packs a punch, but it's compact, has accessible features  makes a nice concealedcarry piece.
I can take care of the paperwork.
Yeah?
No problem. If <u>you</u> don't have a problem with me reporting this gun stolen.
You broke last time.
Let him break  he likes to break.
Fuck you.
I wouldn't talk.
Huh?
I saw your mother on the Strip last night. She went up to three guys, said she'd like 'em to stick one in each, know what I mean?
What.
There's been some trouble downtown.
What kind?
What the papers used to call a "gangland slaying."
Our black friends?
No, Terry. They don't work like that. Jenny Wilson's father paid a little visit, left a message.
I thought he was in prison, in England.
Well, either they have a very liberal workrelease program, or he's out, because he's here in L.A., looking for you.
You should have let me do the talking.
Why, because you're my security consultant? This cocksucker nearly burnt my house down.
What did you tell them.
I mean, Gordon must weigh a good four hundred pounds.
Heavier than that now. But are there any drugs in that stomach to back up your story.
As it happens. I didn't make that part up.
And where is this guest? Don't they want to interview him.
I don't know everyone here. He was so traumatized he split. Maybe he was Gordon's <u>pusher</u>.
Where do <u>you</u> think he is, Mike.
We'll find him.
No. I mean. Not even your people should be involved. Right? It's too close now.
You could use a few of my prime shitkickers up here.
You think I'm staying?
There's already gonna be talk about how people close to you keep falling into canyons.
Well, can we make it one more. Nowhere the fuck near me.
Hey.
Come over here.
How they goin', kid?
Not bad.
How'd you like to kill someone for me?
Okay.
Same as last time  the rest after.
Where do we go?
When you find the guy, you'll know.
What shit is this. I just do it. I don't prepare it.
I'll point you in the right direction, but you'll have to take it to the end zone. He's a hitandrun gunman  I figure he's not cruising the Polo Lounge.
This is unfucking professional.
See, a successful man like me has limitations  I lose touch at a street level. So I have to depend on a smart boy like you who's closer to the nitty and the gritty than I am.
Fuck you, Mr. whateveryourname is. This is a lifestyle I embrace.
That's why I'm letting you take care of this. I'm the one with appearances to maintain. But who gives a shit about you? Not even God.
Adhara. I told your father, if you're looking for a name, you can't go wrong with a constellation.
I used to hate it. Now I like it.
Could be worse, he could've named you Reticulum.
Is there anything in the world that you want or need?
I <u>want</u> to know why you <u>need</u> that scary guy in your house.
Gordon? He's been with me for years. He's not as tough as he looks.
Then what good is he?
Is it possible that you're too young to be acquainted with the idea of loyalty?
Is that a problem?
Not for you, clearly.
I'm loyal to things that make me happy.
Am I a thing?
Well, you're certainly not a person.
I'm not.
No. You're not specific enough to be a person. You're more like a vibe.
I'm so glad we're having this chat.
It's not a knock.
It's not a compliment.
It's an observation. Like: I'm hungry. When are we eating?
As soon as you get dressed.
What kind of food?
Anything but Japanese.
Why?
I'm not into finger foods. Too fussy.
Like you.
I don't like doityourself cuisine. Buffets. Salad bars.
You demand to be served. A fork fetishist.
It's just fuel to me. I'm not there for distractions.
For some, eating is a sensual experience. <u>The</u> sensual experience.
That's what Gordon's always saying.
Oh, god.
Italian?
I'm sorry.
Italian.
Who?
Not who, food. Should we get Italian.
Sure.
I like the colors.
We all did.
It must've been a time. A golden moment.
Hey, I thought you weren't a buffet person.
I'm a gracious host.
I've lived in L.A. all my life, I've never done this drive.
All your life. That happened while I swam the length of my pool.
What's the matter?
Nothing. I guess it's hard to pass on this road.
The freeway's faster, but lacks a certain majesty.
Just feels like the car behind has been following us the longest time.
I sure hope so.
We think someone is here.
We think?
We can't find ... ... two of our guys.
No.
Why not?
Because 
And what you're wearing, that's great, too.
This? It's from a thrift shop.
What did it cost?
Fifteen dollars.
That'd be seventy in New York. You stole it!
It's all I could afford.
Wait. You're not wearing that ironically? This is really you?
I don't know what you mean.
Don't worry, I probably won't be in here much. Light sleeper.
That's why we're here.
What do you do?
I'm between jobs right now. My last job... it... the person I was working for... the job ended. Over. So... And you?
That depends.
Not really.
Don't tell me Boston is different from New York.
Ohh, sure, you have trouble with commitment.
My boyfriend thinks so, my girlfriend doesn't. If we could all live together... but... they hate each other. It's hard to be Miss Perversity when you're the only one at the party. D'you know what I mean?
No.
A blank canvas! I could paint your portrait, directly on you. Or maybe not. So, you? Husbands? Boyfriends? Girlfriends? Where do you live?
I don't have anyone. But I do have a little apartment of my own. It has a little flower garden. You can just see the ocean. At night, when the wind comes in just right, you can hear the buoys in the harbor.
Jeez.
I know.
I love this house. I really love this house.
You're okay.
A monster? But he built this for the woman he loved, like the Taj Mahal.
The Taj Mahal wasn't a palace, it was a tomb. Why didn't he tell us?
You've been out of the world for a long time, haven't you?
Yes. I've missed it.
No. The world has missed you.
Good night, Theo.
You, too. Happy tossing and turning.
If this was some sort of joke, I'm going to kill him.
You know it wasn't a joke, Theo.
Yes. I feel realy rested, too. Theo?
I guess. Oh, your hair! It looks good.
How could he have left without his keys?
Two sets. I don't know. Maybe they're not even his.
Watts?
What's his first name?
David.
David? David Watts? Can you hear us? David! Daviiiiid!
David?
Maybe he never came in. If he'd come in, he would have left his bags at the door, right? Or maybe he got here early, and went for a walk, and fell. Maybe he's outside.
Is it over?
No, it's getting worse.
Theo... Did you?
Maybe you did it yourself.
Why?
I don't know. You've been alone for a long time, maybe you want attention. Maybe he did it...
That's so sad.
There's hundreds of them. This must be a record of the children who died at the mills, like Luke said.
Before he painted your name over Mister Crain.
Well, it wasn't me. Mister Dudley had to clean it and he knows that he's in charge of all the messes so why would he make more work for himself and... You said the Good Doctor was with you.
I don't know what to think anymore.
Just think about one thing right now: What color?
I've never had a pedicure before.
Well?
Red. What else?
I'm sorry I was mad at you, Theo.
Me too. Although I learned one thing about you, that you don't know about yourself. You can be a pretty decent bitch.
I'll take that as a compliment. In the city, what kind of place do you live in?
I have a loft.
You want to move to New York, you want to move in with me?
I don't know, you know...
My place isn't like yours, Nell, it doesn't have a view of sea. It doesn't have a view of anything. What's interesting about the way I live is what goes on inside the walls. Living with me... My boundaries aren't very well defined, Nell. Do you know what I mean?
I'm trying. Have you ever kept something to yourself because you were afraid it'd ruin things.
Are you sure?
I think so.
Okay.
Marrow said the same thing as last night, he <u>says</u>   that he checked with Mrs. Dudley. And he says that she told him that all the fireplaces in the West Wing connect to the main chimney. He says that he thinks that the flue was open, and with the windstorm, he says that what probably happened was some kind of freak air current 
 What do you think?
Then who is? Come on, Nell. Deep down, if you really thought it wasn't Jim, why wouldn't you be leaving right this second? Why wouldn't you be afraid? Really afraid.
Because I don't want to ruin things. Because home is where the heart is.
Nell, what happened?
Carolyn showed me where she hid him, hid him with all the ones he killed 
This is real, I'm not making it up! Theo, you saw it! You were there  the banging and last night. You, you all saw the painting!
Nell, it makes sense. It all makes sense. You and I, we were scaring each other, working each other up.
 but the painting!
I'm going to stay with you until you fall asleep. And then I'm going to get some brandy.
I don't think I want any.
I do.
They're all in here. All the ones he killed. They're just children! We have to help them!
Come on! Why are we waiting?
What'd you come back for, babe?
Just had to be sure.
Oh, Theo. You know I don't have an apartment.
Then let's go get you one.
It's make the soup or answer the door. Can't do both.
Mrs. Dudley.
So far.
They're so beautiful. Aren't they?
I've seen 'em. Lot to dust.
Well, I've never lived with beauty. You must love working here.
It's a job. I keep banker's hours. I set dinner on the dining room sideboard at six. You can serve yourselves. Breakfast is ready at nine. I don't wait on people. I don't stay after dinner. Not after it begins to get dark. I leave before dark comes. We live in town. Nine miles. So there won't be anyone around if you need help. We couldn't even hear you, in the night.
Why would we 
 no one could. No one lives any nearer than town. No one will come any nearer than that. In the night. In the dark.
No one could. No one lives any nearer than town.
No one will come any nearer than that.
What do you want?
Oh! You scared me.
Me? No. What are you doing here?
Are you Mister Dudley, the caretaker?
Yeah, I'm Mister Dudley, the caretaker. What are you doing here?
I'm with Dr. Marrow's group. I'm supposed to check in with Mrs. Dudley up at the house. Is she here?
Why do you need a chain like that?
That's a good question. What is it about fences? Sometimes a locked chain makes people on both sides of the fence just a little more comfortable. Why would that be?
Is there something about the house?
Mrs. Dudley'll be waiting for you.
That's where she hanged herself.
Who?
Rene Crain. Up there. Rope. Ship's hawser. Hard to tie. Don't know how she got it.
Why?
Why'd she kill herself?
Yes.
She was unhappy.
Why?
Can't say. Haven't been here that long. Well, it's Labor Day, gotta get to work.
Have either of you seen David Watts?
No, but Nell's been here longer than I have.
When do we take the tests?
Every day. Basically we'll be hanging out together like we have so far this evening.
Well this is a cozy breakfast.
Good morning, Theo. Luke.
Maybe they're Mary's.
Mary came with me.
Get a blanket!
It's okay... we're all here...
Your fear of him was real. That's all the ghost anyone needs.
How could you do this to people?
Is she asleep?
Yes. But I promised I wouldn't let her alone the whole night.
She needs help.
I'll take her with me to the University tomorrow. I can't believe I read the test wrong. I didn't see anything that looked like she was suicidal.
He's wandering around the house, and Nell heard him. She thought it was ghosts. Let's go look for him again.
No. If he's lost somewhere in the house... he'll have to stay lost until tomorrow, until the night is over. What we have to do now is be together, with Nell.
Oh God, we can't get out!
Nell, what do we do?
I'm not going back to New York City. I'm going to find an apartment with a little flower garden, where you can just see the ocean and at night, when the wind comes in just right, you can hear the sound of the harbor. What about you?
I'm a scientist. I just conducted an experiment. Now I have to write it up.
But the experiment was a failure.
You know what he's really upset about?
What?
You're going to publish, he's going to perish... And why did you hire me for this?
You hear the vibrations in the wire. There's a magnetic pulse in the wires, you feel it. I could test it.
Test it.
Yes, this is Doctor Marrow.
How'd I know it was for you?
Because it's my phone. Yes... Mrs. Dudley, just leave the boxes inside, thank you. See you soon. Thank you.
Here's how they're organized. Groups of five, very different personalities: scored all over the Kiersey Temperament Sorter just like you asked for. And they all score high on the insomnia charts.
Good.
What's this? What's this... this picture?
That? That's Hill House.
This is where we're going?
Yes. It's perfect, isn't it?
What happened?
There were no children. Rene died, and <u>then</u> Hugh Crain built all of this, and then he died. His heart was broken.
Eleanor, how was the drive?
You can call me Nell, Dr. Marrow.
Nell. Good enough. And I'm Jim.
I'm really... honored to be part of this study, Jim.
Well... we're glad to have you.
You wrote that you had trouble sleeping.
Yes, because someone was always keeping me awake. Ever since I was little. That was my job. I took care of my mother and I had to be there for her all night long, and she woke up all the time. And after she died, well, it's been a few months, but I still, I still wake up, it's... a habit. I know we've only known each other a couple of hours, but I'm really glad to be with people who let me talk about this. I'm really happy to be here with you.
All the carvings.
But there's a sad catch to the story.
The cold sensation. Who felt it first?
Theo I think. You've asked us that three times, Doctor Marrow. What's going on?
How do you feel about Luke's suggestion that it was just the old plumbing? Water hammer, something like that?
Sorry.
For an American you do a good imitation of the British at their most apologetic. Pardon me. Excuse me, sorry, sorry...
Nell! What's wrong?
That smell... oh, God.
What did it smell like?
It was very specific.
All right...
In the bathroom in my mother's room, the toilet was next to an old wooden table. It smelled like that wood.
So... smell... is... Smell is the sense that triggers the most powerful memories. And a memory can trigger a smell.
I wasn't thinking about my mother's bathroom.
What happened after you smelled it?
I looked at Theo. She had a look on her face.
Like she smelled it too?
Yes.
And then what happened?
I got more scared.
Hmm.
I'm sorry. I'm messing up the study.
No you're not. Something moved you. You saw something.
Are you coming to confess?
I wish I were. I wish I had done it, then I could confess and you'd be at peace. That great moral philosopher Frank Sinatra once said to someone he loved, I wish you had an enemy, so I could beat him up.
Let's say it wasn't you. Who did it?
I don't know.
It was a stupid thing to do.
It was.
Welcome Home.
You'll never see it again. Mr. Dudley's taking care of it. I'm sorry, Nell. Can I show you something you'd like to see?
Sure.
Someone is playing with you.
Why?
I don't know.
It doesn't matter. Even if they're tormenting me, someone wants me. What I do with this is up to me. I can be a victim, or I can be a volunteer. And I want to be the volunteer.
What is that tune?
I don't know. A lullaby I guess. My mother used to hum it to me. And her mother before that, and so on. Hugh Crain, would you care to dance?
Nell... please, Nell... take a deep breath...
And they're all locked together in here... and he won't let go of them!
I hadn't done a study of how group fear affects individual performance. Mass hysteria is like a story, Nell. A communal story. Someone starts it. Then we all add a little more to it. And then for some reason  no one knows how  we start believing it. This story shapes what we see and hear. We interpret everything through it, make it fit the story. I started our story when I gave you the history of Hill House. You've added to it. That's what this experiment has all been about. That's what it was about, the experiment's over. I'm pulling the plug. This is my fault.
It's not real? Crain? He's not real?
Why would we want to do that, Nell?
Because that's where he burned them up, the child laborers from his mills! Because that's where their bones are! He killed <i>hundreds</i>. He took them here and he killed them. Their bones are in the fireplace!
The children want me. They're calling me. They need me.
Nell. You will come here now.
But you told me to look in the paper! You told me I'd be perfect!
Nell, the first time I ever spoke with you in person was the night we met here.
Then who called me?
No.
My mother used to hum this to me. Like her mother hummed it to her. And my great grandmother Carolyn hummed it to her.
Come on.
No 
What'll happen to us, Nell?
Nothing, if you leave right now. There's a war going on all around us. Don't get in the way, please.
It's still an electric shock!
Come on Malcolm, it's only seven ohms, it's nothing, it's like a joy buzzer! And it's not about the pain, it's about the interference with concentration...
Malcolm, this is essential work I'm doing. Just think what my research can do for education. Elementary school classrooms near train tracks or airports, where loud noise is random; this helps to prove the need for sound insulation if the children are ever going to learn to read.
And that will be a good place to end this study.
No, Malcolm! Individual performance is only part of it. I know why baseball players choke for no reason, I know why violinists throw up with fear before every concert, and need to, to give a great performance, but what I want to know is, how fear works in a group...
Not the way you've constructed your group, it's just not ethical!
But if the group knows it's being studied as a group, you contaminate the results. The deception is minor.
Are you working with her?
Mary, I'll meet you outside.
Why are you working with her? Mary Lambretta was thrown out of the department for trying to get a Ph.D. in psychic studies.
And after she was thrown out, she needed a job.
You don't believe in the paranormal.
No, but she does, and that's all that matters.
Does she know that's why you're using her?
No.
I, I just can't...
She needed a job, Malcolm. And she's smart. And she helps me.
I have a bad feeling about what you're doing.
This is the last chapter. Please, please give me clearance. It's for science.
The rest of you may hate your insomnia, but I find it the best time of the day for me. I'm alone. Nobody's talking to me but myself. My mind is racing with ideas, and I can think.
Nah, you're going crazy with doubt, all of your mistakes are coming back up the pipes, and it's worse than a nightmare. 
He said that Hugh Crain... Hugh Crain was a monster. He said that he was a brutal, horrible man. He told me that Crain drove his workers to early deaths. Crain had children chained to the looms in his mill. And listen to this: his beautiful Rene killed herself.
And why didn't Marrow tell <u>us</u>? Doesn't he trust women? That fuck.
Hey! I heard screaming...
Luke.
Well, this lot is full!
He must have left. Didn't like the looks of the place or something.
I didn't do it.
You could have.
So could you! Is this some fucked up idea of art, putting someone else's name to a painting?
No.
Mister very talky, would you please say what it is about this study that bothers you?
The whole thing feels like experimental misdirection. Like he says it's about one thing, a psychological profile of environmental effects on insomnia... and that'd be a legitimate study, but I think that we've been subjected to an academic bait and switch; he's really looking at something else.
We're fucked. We're in a haunted house and we can't get out until the morning.
You don't really believe it's haunted... Do you believe in ghosts?
That depends on your definition of ghosts. I'm going to check on her, and then I'm going to stay awake.
All night?
Yeah.
You want company?
Maybe someday.
You used the wrong test.
Will the two of you shut up! God damn it! Maybe the tests were right, Marrow. She's sensitive, she's vulnerable, but I don't think she's suicidal and I didn't have to test her. Maybe she wasn't trying to kill herself. Maybe she was really scared. Maybe she really heard voices.
Nell 
 how much is this car worth?
Was sure she'd be in here.
Where in the hell can she be.
Nell!
We can't stay here looking for her. She doesn't want to be found...
And this is my assistant, Mary Lambretta.
Greetings.
So why did you need the Addam's Family mansion for a scientific test?
I thought it best to be isolated, to be in a location with a definite sense of history, and I wanted to make sure that it wasn't so pleasant you'd all sleep too easily. You'll be taking a variety of tests, none of them harmful, and you've got the house, the grounds, and each other to keep you company.
That could have been worse.
Yeah.
Luke, can I talk to you?
Sure.
Because... well, I know I can trust you.
Why?
I've read your tests.
Do you need me anymore? Cause I'm going to bed. They can stay up talking another 45 minutes if they want, but I gotta try to get some sleep.
Go ahead.
And those are Luke's and mine.
There's a carriage house around back.
I gave my key to the gate to Todd, but the Dudleys'll be here in the morning.
Do we still get paid for the week?
You get your money.
Is that the question of compassion or science?
It's a question.
She got the child labor stuff from me.
It's not going to hold your weight.
Just stay there, Nell!
You're not telling us something.
Watts. Those were his keys Nell found. His roommate called and said Watts left when he was supposed to. I think he's here.
Hi, Luke Sanderson, bad sleeper, I'm your basic tosserturner, and you are...
Uh... Nell Vance...
And what kind of sleeper?
Well, I... uh...
Obsessive worrier. Join the club. And you? I'd guess...
I only saw Theo drive up.
Who's Watts?
The children. The children Hugh Crain built the house for. The children he never had.
Come on. These are the typically sentimental gestures of a depraved industrialist.
Couldn't get the last ones. You?
I did okay.
Welcome Home Eleanor. Welcome Home? I've never been here. Who did this?
It's somebody's idea of a joke.
Modelling smallgroup dynamics in the formation of narrative hallucinations. You brought us here to scare us. Insomnia, that was just a decoy issue. You're disgusting.
Is this true? I've been hypnotized?
Hi. I'm Todd Aubochon.
Greetings fellow insomniac.
Greetings fellow sheep counter.
These old Victorian houses are great, aren't they?
It's not Victorian, everyone thinks that the whole nineteenth century was Victorian. This is gothic, this is English Craftsman, this is Romanesque. This is... insane. Who lives here?
You know what I love about wine that comes in bottles like this?
What?
<u>Every</u> year is a good year.
Anything wrong... ?
Nothing. Nothing at all.
I wasn't expecting you.
Wanted to wish you luck. Not that you'll need it.
Attractive...
Don't ask.
I checked it personally.
What's happened...
Follow me.
Nicholas...
That you've involved Conrad... is unforgivable. I am now your enemy.
How concerned should I be?
It was a misunderstanding.
Someone's playing hardball. It's complicated. Can I ask a favor?
You know you can.
Find out about a company called C.R.S. Consumer Recreation Services.
Sounds like they make tennis rackets. What do we know?
Just what I told you.
Nothing else?
Christ... I can't believe it... invisible ink?
You're joking.
It's what they do. It's like... being toyed with by a bunch of... Depraved children.
Very well. If you tell me not to worry, I shan't.
Sam... Thank you.
He hasn't called back.
What about the house?
Illegal surveillance, reckless endangerment...
Attempted murder.
Bravo, young man. you have to tell me what this was all about sometime. I want you to know... when it looked there for awhile like you were going slowly insane... I was fully prepared to have you committed to the <u>finest</u> mentalhealth facility available. I mean that sincerely, don't thank me.
You warm my heart.
What the fuck... ?!
Why are you following me?
I don't know what you're talking about. I'm just driving...
Look... what I'm doing is none of your business...
Is Alan Baer "the Game?" Is that what this is?
Friend... why don't you back off.
Hey... !
Nice touch. Does the game use real bullets... ?
Invitations: the Museum Gala.
No.
The Fitzwilliam Botanical Garden Annual Fundraiser.
No.
The Hinchberger wedding.
Let me think... Hordes of men in tuxedos. Everyone's droning. Ludwell's trying to break the ice by reciting an offcolor limerick...
I'll send your regrets. Honestly, why must I even bother?
Because, if you don't know about society, you don't have the satisfaction of avoiding it.
Your exwife.
I know who she is. Take a message.
I don't like her.
I wouldn't mention the following, except he was very insistent. It's obviously some sort of prank...
What?
A gentleman left a message requesting a lunch, but I assured him...
What gentleman, Maria?
A Mister... Seymour Butts.
"Under the Bleachers"... by Seymour Butts.
Pardon me? I'm afraid I don't...
Cancel lunch. Make reservations at Campton Place for me and Mr. Butts.
What's the trouble?
You're here for Conrad Van Orton? I'm the hotel manager...
Pleasure to meet you, I'd like to see my brother, thank you.
Your brother. Will you come with me?
What's this about?
It's a private matter, for you... I think you'll be more comfortable...
Where's my brother?
There were complaints by other guests, and damage to his room. We did the best we could to accommodate his behavior.
His behavior... ?
He couldn't, or refused to pay. We extended credit...
Look, where is he?!
There was an incident a few days ago... a nervous breakdown, they said. The police took him. They left this address, in case anyone...
Thank you.
Have a nice day.
Dinner's in the oven.
Thank you. Goodnight.
You did? How is he?
Okay. I think he's into some sort of new personal improvement cult.
Well... send my love, if you see him again.
Is everything alright?
Fine.
I've finished for the evening. Will you be needing anything else?
No, thank you. Goodnight.
Goodnight then.
Mr. Van Orton... ?
Ilsa... you're alright?
Yes. What do you mean? What's wrong?
Did the alarm go off? The house... they... you didn't see... ?
I don't know what you're talking about. What's happened?
There's been a break in. Lock this door and stay here. Don't move a muscle.
What makes you ask?
I'm not sure.
All the time I've known you, you've never once asked about him.
He came to my mind recently, that's all.
Your mother thought he was a good man. He worked very hard. What I remember most was his manner was so... slight. It was easy to spend time in a room, and not realize he'd been there the whole time.
Was he morose, or...? I mean...
No. What happened... no one expected it.
Sometimes I wonder how much of him there is in me.
Not much, I think.
I'm just like him.
You're not like him at all. I don't know exactly what's going on around here lately, but don't make me start worrying about you.
Did you worry about him?
Nobody worried about your father.
Goodnight. See you home.
Goodnight. Where was she?
Ah, Mr. Van Orton. Here you go...
Have we met?
Show Mr. Van Orton to his room.
The key?
Hm?
Is there a room key?
Didn't I give you two?
No, you didn't...
I need the police.
Let's get you dried off first. I might have some clothes below.
You know, these fit... perfectly.
They were my husband's. My late husband... may he rest in peace.
I've been so lonely.
I can't tell you how <u>not</u> interested I am.
Don't be nervous. They said you'd be nervous.
Don't take another step.
Isn't this what you like? They told me you had a thing for boats.
First they try to kill me, now you? Put your damn clothes back on.
Jim Feingold, V.P., E.D.A. Engineering and Data Analysis.
I'm not quite sure how this works. My brother...
Oh, here we go...
VAN... ORTON... A gift from Conrad Van Orton. Interesting...
What is?
Your brother was a client with our London branch. We do a sort of informal scoring. His numbers were outstanding. Sure you're not hungry at all... ? Tung Hoy, best in Chinatown...
No, thank you.
You need to fill out those forms. Application, psychtests: M.M.P.I. and T.A.T. For the financial questionnaire, don't answer anything you don't feel like. We'll run a T.R.W....
I don't write the questions. I just review them.
What's all this for?
We want a sense of your overall capabilities, limitations, turnons, turnoffs...
No, I mean, what is it FOR? What are you selling?
Oh... it's a game.
A game?
Tailored specifically to each participant. Think of it as a great vacation, except you don't go to it, it comes to you.
What kind of vacation?
It's different every time.
Humor me with specifics.
We provide whatever's lacking.
And if nothing's lacking?
May I make two suggestions... ?
Do you really expect me to participate without knowing a single thing?
First, admit to yourself that it sounds intriguing. Second, you don't have to decide today. Take the silly tests, fill out the forms. One day, the game begins. You either love it or hate it. Decide then. We're like an experimental BookoftheMonth Club; drop out at any time with no further obligation. That was my sales pitch.
How long will these take?
An hour for those... maybe another for the physical.
Physical?
Cursory examination. Turnyourhead andcough sort of thing. You'll be out of here in no time.
Sorry to keep you waiting.
Don't worry. It's been terrific spending the entire day with your "crack team".
It's all down to this...
One guarantee. Payment's entirely at your brother's discretion and, as a gift, dependent on your satisfaction.
You mean, I don't like it, he doesn't pay?
It's never happened. We've never had an unsatisfied customer.
You mean, <u>dis</u>satisfied.
That's right  you're a leftbrain word fetishist.
Get rid of them.
Hey, everyone  snack time! Here... here you go...
Look, it was just a job. Nothing personal, ya know? I play my part, improvise a little. That's what I'm good at.
I'm tired of dealing with peons. I need to get to whoever's in charge.
Nobody knows, pal. Nobody gets the big picture... Jason, Tommy, cut it out!
Goddamnit, why do they do that?
How do I find them? Their offices are empty.
They own the whole building. They just move from floor to floor.
They know you... you worked for them. You can get me in.
No, I can't. I'm sorry and all, but...
Tell them the cops are after you... tell them you've got to talk to someone, I'm threatening to blow the whistle.
What whistle? There's no fucking whistle. This is fucking dangerous.
Drive in.
What are you gonna do anyway? You won't get your money back.
I don't want money. I'm pulling back the curtain. I'm here to meet the wizard.
You don't need me...
Shut up. Cuff him to the rail.
Where?
I told you, they hired me over the phone. I never met anyone.
Where'd you pick up your checks?
It was a different floor then...
Guess!
Like, this way... sort of...
I need your car, Elizabeth.
What happened to you, Nick? I mean, look at yourself...
I know, look at me, well... What happened? I don't know. I don't even really know. I have some things to try to take care of... I need the car a little while.
Of course you can have it if you need it. Can I get you something to eat?
The last few days, um... I've been thinking... had a lot of spare time. I want to tell you... I'm starting to understand why you left me. I've been resenting you for it, maybe, but ... I want to apologize, for all of it. For shutting you out, for not being there. I... Anyway, I hope you can forgive me.
There's nothing to forgive.
It would mean a lot to me... if you and I could be friends. If I could have you back in my life... in some small way. It would be important.
Of course, Nick...
It's just a t.v. He's just an actor.
Yes.
I'll explain someday.
I hope.
We have to head out... just wanted to say goodbye.
You're going? Well, thanks again. Good to see you, Rachel... Thanks for coming, Mel. I'll get your car back. Right now it's, uh... at the zoo. Sorry.
Happy Birthday, Nicholas.
I'll call. I really will.
I know.
No money, no identification or passport. You are in a fix. What did happen to you?
Well, where to begin. It's complicated...
It always is.
What happened was, I'm on vacation, alone... I was robbed, at gunpoint. They hit me and ran. Two men, a few blocks away. They took my wallet, money... all of it. So...
Robbed?
Yes.
Have you gone to the police?
I don't speak Spanish. All I need is to get back... just enough for that.
We'll help with the police, if you want to bother. As far as money goes... can I make a suggestion? You say you were mugged?
Yes.
And, they didn't take that watch?
How much is it? A few thousand, at least. A Rolex like that... lucky for you they missed it.
Yes, very lucky.
Hey there, Nickie.
Conrad, what a surprise. Gesundheit.
Happy Birthday, man.
"Seymour Butts." I never get tired of that one.
That's why it's a classic. Come on, man... how 'bout a hug... ?
They gave me a free jacket at the door.
They'll be wanting it back.
Not after I'm done with it. Actually, I've been here. In gradschool I bought crystalmeth from the maitre d'.
Which gradschool?
You look good.
So do you. And to think I was worried...
About me?
How long's it been? Since mom died... four years? How are you?
Never better.
Elizabeth?
Divorced. Remarried to some pediatrician or gynecologist, or pediatric gynaecologist, in Sausalito.
Too bad, I liked her. So, you're all alone in the House of Pain?
I redecorated. What about you?
Nowhere in particular. Don't you keep track of my whereabouts anymore?
Connie... what brings you here? Is everything alright?
Yeah.
You need anything?
No.
Really?
I don't need anything from you. I was laying on a beach somewhere in Spain, naked, and, it hit me  Nickie's birthday. So, here I am, four layovers, twentyseven hours flying and one donkey ride later. Not necessarily in that order.
For you.
You shouldn't have.
Call that number.
"Consumer Recrreation Services." What, do they make golf clubs?
Trust me. Call that number.
Why?
They make your life fun. Their only guarantee is you will not be bored.
Fun?
You've heard of it. You've seen other people having it. They're an entertainment service, but more than that.
This isn't an escort service?
It's a profound life experience.
Like a stroke?
Call them. Trust me.
Tell me you'll call.
Okay.
Will you?
I said I would...
But, will you?
Are you still on mediction?
Why would you say that?
I thought you'd like this. Best thing I ever did. If you don't want to do it, DON'T...
I'll call them, okay?
It doesn't matter...
I'm going to call.
Do it for YOU.
Okay, okay... okay? I just... you know I hate surprises.
I know...
Tell me where we're going.
Just drive, man. It's fucking nuts!
What's this all about, Connie?
Shhhhhhh. Wait... wait...
What are you doing?
They're methodical. They're nothing if they're not that.
Who?
C.R.S. Who do you think? Jesus H., thank your lucky charms. To think what I almost got you into.
Yeah, almost...
You dodged a bullet.
How do you mean, exactly?
They fuck you and they fuck you and they fuck you. And then, just when you think it's done, that's when the <u>real</u> fucking begins.
Slow down, take a breath...
It doesn't stop, Nick. I paid the bill, I gave 'em their money, but it all started again. They won't leave me alone...
What have they been doing to you?
Everything. I'm a goddamn humanpinata...
Calm down. Why would they keep playing after you paid?
You think I know? I paid them <u>more</u> to make it stop.
It's them. They did this.
It's a flat tire. That's all.
How do you know?
We're going to figure this out. Get a grip on yourself.
Okay... okay.
The phone's dead.
Really?
Do you know how to change a tire?
No. Do you? Can't be too hard, can it? I don't think we should be here out in the open like this.
How did those... ?
You're part of it...
What? Connie...
No! You're one of them. Of course, it makes perfect sense!
No, it doesn't! Those keys were put there. I didn't even know...
You're behind this, aren't you? You and your sick friends. Well, make it stop!
Listen to yourself. Why would I do anything like what you're describing?
Because you hate me. Because you had to be here, when mom died. Because you had to do it alone. Well, don't you think if I'd known... I'd've been here too. I'd have been here...
Stop this. It's not true...
I'm sorry, Christ, I'm sorry! How many more times do I have to say I'm sorry before you forgive me... ?
Stop it!
You know... how'd you manage the gun? I mean...
Baby, they were all over the house with metal detectors. They switched your gun with a lookalike, rigged barrel, loaded with blanks. Popgun.
What?
This... ? Oh, this is just... this is the bill.
Really?
Yeah.
Split it?
Oh, God yes please. Thanks, man. I'll take you up on that.
Where's Christine? The waitress.
Yeah, yeah. She called a cab. Said something about catching a plane.
Did she?
I'm so sorry.
Please, don't do that...
I apologize, sir, I'm having a bad day...
A bad month. You did the exact same thing to me last week.
Don't help me, just get more napkins. And soda water.
It was an accident.
Terrific. I now have a hundred dollar dry cleaning bill.
I said I was sorry...
Pardon me... Miss... ?
Oh, no... you.
I'm not sure how this works. Do you have something for me... ? I got this note...
What are you babbling about, psycho?
I want to know what's going on. Are you part of this?
What's going on? I'm going on my second job this month, and now I'm going on unemployment.
Excuse me, I need to explain...
Don't explain. Fuck off. Goodbye.
What's with him?
I don't know... he fell.
Do you know what to do?
I don't think he's breathing.
Oh, God... !
Don't just stand there, get help!
This can't be real...
He's pissing his pants. Is that real enough for you? Call 911!
Alright... okay...
He's turning blue!
This is nuts.
What <u>is</u> your problem?
Ten minutes ago, I'm looking forward to a quiet dinner. I get a note...
Let's talk to whoever can get this over with...
Hold on... They want your driver's license number.
You've got to be kidding.
What... is... happening... ?
I was trying to tell you... it's a game.
A game?
It's run by a company... they play elaborate pranks. Things like this. I'm really only now finding out myself.
What are you talking about?
The lights went out, one hundred people all ran away...
You mean, the guy who turned blue and <u>wet</u> himself... ?
I'm sorry, about this...
You should be.
There's got to be a flashlight.
I don't understand why they're getting you involved.
See you around.
Where are you going?
Home.
How do you know that's the way?
Where'd you all go? Motherfucking frat boys. You better hide. Is your life so pathetic that this is something you're willing to pay for?
It was a gift... from my brother.
How thoughtful. The gift of inconvenience.
Long story. I found this key in the mouth of a wooden Harlequin.
Never mind.
Don't even think about it.
Why not?
Read what it says: "Warning, do <u>not</u> attempt to open. If elevator stops, use emergency... "
If there was one.
"... wait for help." Wait for help. I'm not opening a door that specifically warns me not to.
Are you suggesting we wait till someone finds us?
I'll give you a boost.
You first.
This isn't an attempt to be gallant. If I don't lift you, how are you going to get there?
You pull me up.
It's much easier this way. Come on, step up...
No.
Please...
I'm not wearing underwear. Okay? There, I said it. Satisfied.
Oh. FIne.
There's a ladder here.
My hero. Let's go.
I'll wait.
It's not like anyone could actually open it.
This is C.R.S.
What's C.R.S.?
Consumer Recreation Services. It's their building. They...
Don't panic. When security gets here, we simply explain what happened...
They'll love that.
Yes... well...
You deserted me.
You're a grown man. I'm not responsible for you.
You're the one who started running.
Me? You're the one who... ! Shit!
There goes a thousand dollars.
Your <u>shoes</u> cost a thousand dollars?
That one did.
... two hundred dollars a toe.
Never did catch your name.
Nicholas. Nicholas Van Orton.
Nicholas Van Orton? What are you, a czar?
That's classic.
Why... ?
We hang down here and drop. The garbage'll break our fall.
I think not.
Where are we going?
That tall, bright building. Near there.
What exactly do you do?
Investment banking. Moving money from place to place.
Nice.
Hm? Oh, yes.
A fresh shirt...
If this was my office, I wouldn't keep that closed.
I don't spend much time looking out the window. I'll call you a taxi.
I know the owner of Campton Place. I could talk to him in the morning.
Don't. It was a shitty job anyway. I overreacted.
Goodnight.
I don't think I've ever spent this much time with someone who didn't even ask my name.
The maitre d' called you Christine.
Right. Call me Christy.
Goodnight, Christy. It was nice meeting you.
Give me an address so I can send your shirt back.
Keep it.
I have a confession to make. Someone gave me sixhundred dollars to spill drinks on you, as a practical joke.
Seriously? What did they say?
They said five hundred. I said six. They said the man in the gray flannel suit. I think I said, you mean the attractive guy in the gray flannel suit?
What are you doing here?
Can we talk?
It's okay, dad.
Didn't think I'd ever see you again.
Come here...
What is it?
Is this you?
Where'd you get this?
It was left in my hotel room, well, not really mine. You're saying it's not you?
I think I would remember. What makes you think it's me?
Well... the red bra.
Okay.
I thought...
Do you mind if I sit?
Sure. You alright? Is this still that contest you're in...
I'm tired. I'm sorry, I should go. I've been enough of a nuisance.
Let me go get some clothes on. We'll talk, okay? Be right back.
Want anything to drink?
You?
Yeah. First Communion. Aren't I a little angel?
Take the picture out.
What's wrong?
Take the picture out of the frame and show it to me.
I don't...
They're watching.
Wha... ?
Not here! They can see.
No! I'm sick of this...
Nicholas...
What is this!?
God, wake up, it's a con!
What are you doing... ?
Get out.
I could've handed you to them. They find me now, I'm dead...
Get out of my car!
You don't have a choice. No one else is going to tell you what's going on.
You can talk while I drive us to the police.
No cops. I've got a warrant out. Mail fraud. They'll take me in, but you won't be able to prove anything else.
Who are "they?"
I don't know, nobody does. I'm an employee.
Then, what good are you?
I know things... like who you can trust. Like that your brother was in on it from the beginning.
That's a lie...
Yeah? I was your waitress on your birthday. Connie told you about C.R.S. that day, remember? I was already playing my part, <u>before</u> you started the game.
It wasn't his fault. He thought it was his only way back. They fleeced him real good.
How? How could they have gotten anything?
They did the same to him as they did to you.
What are you talking about... ?
Why else would they be willing to put you under... ?
Overseas operator? Please dial Allgemeine Bank, Zurich.
They don't care about you anymore. Alive or dead is the same, as long as they bury you deep enough.
What did you say?
I didn't say anything.
My name's not Christine. It's not my real...
Who the fuck cares?
It's just money. You should be glad you're alive.
It might be best if we didn't talk.
All I mean is... someone like you...
How many times have you done this? I'm interested.
What?
Scams, con games. How many?
I don't know. A lot.
Whatever kind of nickelanddime shit you did before, this is more than just me. Your friends raided pension plans, and payrolls... they took just over sixhundred million. You ruined people's lives.
Who is it?
What do we do?
Who is it?
What do you mean? I checked them myself. I made the calls...
Mm... I wouldn't worry about it.
What... what do you mean?
It's out of your hands.
What are you <u>doing</u> here?
I'm back from the dead.
Nicholas, okay... you're not about to shoot anyone...
Get us out of here...
Nicholas...
Get us out!
What do you think you're doing?
You tell me... I want to know who's behind this. Who did this to me... how, why... ?
How deluded can you be? There's no <u>why</u>...
Who's responsible?!
It wasn't you. It wasn't personal...
You call them...
It could have been any asshole with a couple hundred million in the bank.
Call them, tell them to get the boss up here. Tell them I'll kill you...
They won't...
They will! You tell them if they don't come now, I will shoot you!
Where'd you get that... ?
... what... ?
That gun. That... that's not automatic. The guard had an automatic...
What the fuck are you... ?
Where'd you get that gun?
It's mine...
We searched the house.
Guess you missed it.
Just... wait. Just wait! Okay... please, I'm not kidding anymore...
He's got a gun. Everyone, he's got a <u>real</u> gun up here! Real situation! ... damn it...
What are you doing?
Nicholas, this is fake. It's all part of the game...
Fuck you.
Listen very carefully, I'm telling the truth... this is the game. This was all the game.
Bullshit. They killed him. Feingold, Fisher, whoever... they shot him...
No, now wait... think about it. What did you see... ?
I saw them kill him!
What did you <u>really see</u>? This whole time... special effects, squibs, like in the movies. Please, you've got to believe me... He's got a gun, with real bullets!
Stop talking to them!
Okay... okay... I put it down. Now open that door. Mister Fisher's right on the other side of that door. He's an actor...
Stop talking...
Nicholas...
Shut up!
Let me show you...
No! You take another step, I'll shoot! They're trying to kill me...
You're wrong. You're about to make the biggest mistake of your life. Put that gun down.
Think about it! They followed you every step of the way. There was always a safety net. The taxi, there was a diver. At my house, the window was rigged... they shot at us with blanks...
That's not true...
It is. It's what you hired us for. Nobody touched your money. Nobody stole anything. They're waiting on the other side of that door with champagne... all your friends... it's a celebration...
No...
Open that door, you'll see. Your brother's there... Conrad. He's there. It's your birthday party...
Stop it!
Please, Nicholas, let me show you...
Don't move, you bitch... !
I have to show you...
No!
Hi. Didn't get a chance to say goodbye.
That's my fault. I get too worked up at these. I'm very method. You do know... that's not my name.
I didn't know what else to call you.
Claire.
Claire. Pleased to meet you.
I have to get to the airport...
Where are you going in such a hurry?
There's another gig starting in Saudi Arabia. I'm just a walkon this time though. Bitpart.
What about dinner sometime, when you get back? Would that be... ?
Is this something you're interested in? I'm not really that person I was.
I realize. Maybe you could... tell me a little about yourself.
Like what... my favorite color... ?
Like... where are you from?
Originally, Connecticut.
Big family... small?
One brother, one sister.
Studied acting, I assume?
Julliard, yeah.
Single?
Yes.
Boyfriend?
No.
Underwear?
Always.
Christine! Mister Van Orton is a valued customer...
Then, you kiss his ass.
You don't talk to me like that.
I apologized, I offered to help.
Clean out your locker.
Fine, Dennis. Soon as I get my money for this week.
I'll be right with you.
I only mention it because I took the test this afternoon, down on Montgomery Street.
Did you? Kudos.
Did you play recently?
Hm? No, about a year ago. I was working out of Los Angeles.
I've heard good things about their London branch. You have to admit, it sounds like some fantasy, roleplaying nonsense.
You want to know what it is? What it's all about? John. Chapter nine. Verse twentyfive.
I, uh... haven't been to Sunday school in years...
"Whereas once I was blind, now I can see." Night, Nick. Best of luck.
You promised you'd meet projections, Alan. A dollar sixty per share you said. So, I don't think this is so surprising a visit.
Projections were far too optimistic.
Admittedly...
Our E.P.S. was one fifty last quarter. We're up eight cents per share.
But, the expectation was ten. And, in this case, expectation is everything.
Will you really hold me to it over <u>pennies</u>?
My stock's falling. Isn't yours? Those pennies are costing me millions.
The stock will turn.
It probably will. In fact, I'd go so far as to say it almost certainly will, in time. Why should I settle for that?
Because it's fair. Give me next quarter. If you still feel this way, vote your shares...
You're talking tomorrow. Today is what counts.
You intractable sonofabitch. If your father could see you now...
What?
Your father was a friend. Goddamn it... I watched you grow up. How do you end up treating me like this?
It is so very inappropriate for you to mention my father. Or, did you think this, between us, was friendship? Just because you went fishing with my father, I should sit on my hands while you throw my money away?
Now, look...
I'll be done in a minute. You misspoke before. You're not "stepping down." I'm taking you out at the knees. The whole point is to prove that you're not deciding anything anymore. I'm firing you. Action's taken. Confidence restored. Stock goes up. I sell my shares.
There is no Baer/Grant Publishing without Alan Baer.
Remember Daniel Grant? Do they say, "without Daniel Grant, there is no Baer/Grant Publishing?" He's gone sailing, Alan. He's out there enjoying his golden years, probably wondering where you are.
I could fight you on this.
You could. But, if I leave without your signature, this agreement begins to disintegrate; benefits shrink, options narrow, compensations shrivel.
Are you finished?
No. This is my lawyer, Samuel Sutherland. I thought you two should meet.
We met, this morning. I signed the termination contract for Baer/Grace. I accepted your settlement, Nicholas. you were right. I'm going sailing.
Give me the short version.
Six shots at less than ten feet. Weapon was a large caliber
Okay, let's see...Got a pos itive on her. She's Sarah Connor, works as a legal
That can't be right. That's the name of the one Valley Division mopped up this after noon.
Here's her driver's license.
You gotta be kidding me. The new guys'll be shortstroking it over this one. A oneday pattern killer.
I hate the weird ones.
That stuff's two hours cold.
I know.
I put a cigarette out in it.
Did you reach the next girl yet?
No. Keep getting an answer ing machine.
Send a unit.
I already did. No answer at the door and the apartment manager's out. I'm keeping them there.
Call her.
I just called.
Call her again.
Same shit.
I can hear it now, it's gonna be the goddamned 'Phone Book Killer'.
I hate the press cases. Especially the weird press cases. Where you going?
To make a statement. I'm gonna give them the name. Maybe the jackals can help us out for once.
If they can get this on the tube by eleven, she may just call us. How do I look?
Like shit, boss.
Go! Go! He's got her.
Suspect westbound on Olympic. Grey sedan. Has hostage, repeat...
That Silberman just crack me up. He had this guy in here last week who set his Afghan on fire. Screwed it first, then set it on
Shut up.
...look, Lieutenant...uh, Vukovich, don't put me on hold and don't transfer me to another department...
I won't. Now just relax. Where are you? Yeah, I know it...on Pico. Are you alright?
Yes, but I don't want to leave. I think this guy's following me.
Alright, Ms. Connor. Listen carefully. You're in a public place, you'll be safe 'til we get there. Stay visible. Don't go outside or in the restroom. I'll be there in a few minutes.
Here, drink some of this...
Lieutenant, are you sure it's them? Maybe I should see the ...bodies.
They've already been identi fied. There's no doubt.
Sarah. Sarah, this is Dr. Silber man. I'd like you to tell him everything Reese said to you. Do you feel up to it?
I guess so. You're a doctor?
Why don't you just stretch out here and get some sleep. It'll take your mom a good hour to get here from Redlands.
I can't sleep.
Go ahead. You're safe. There're thirty cops in this building.
Okay.
So. You're a soldier. Fighting for whom?
With the One Thirty Second under Perry, from '21 to '27
The year 2027?
And who was the enemy?
SKYNET. A computer defense system built for SACNORAD by Cyber Dynamics. A modified Series 4800.
I see. And this...computer, thinks it can win by killing the mother of its enemy, kill ing him, in effect, before he is even conceived? A sort of retroactive abortion?
Yes.
...it had no choice. The defensive grid was smashed. We'd taken the mainframes... We'd won. Taking out Connor then would make no difference. Skynet had to wipe out his entire exist ence. We captured the lab complex. Found the...what ever it was called...the timedisplacement equipment. The Terminator had already gone through. They sent two of us to intercept, then zeroed the whole place. Sumner didn't make it.
Then how are you supposed to get back?
Can't. Nobody goes home. Nobody else comes through. It's just him and me.
You go naked. Something about the field generated by a living organism. Nothing dead will go.
Why?
I didn't build the fucking thing.
Okay. Okay. But this... cyborg...if it's metal...
Surrounded by living tissue.
Of course.
Why were the other two women killed?
Most official records were lost in the war. The computer knew almost nothing about Connor's mother. Her name. Where she lived, just the city. No scanner pictures. The Terminator was just being systematic.
You've heard enough. Decide. Are you going to release me?
I'm afraid that's not up to me.
Then why am I talking to you? Get out.
I can help you...
Who is in authority here?
Do you understand?
Yes. Don't hurt me.
I'm here to help you. Reese, Sergeant/TechCom, DN38416...
This is a mistake. I haven't done anything.
No. But you will. It's very important that you live.
But outside, it's living human tissue. Flesh, skin, hair...blood. Grown for the cyborgs.
Look, Reese, I know you want to help, but...
Pay attention. The 600 series had rubber skin. We spotted them easy. But these are new. They look human. Sweat, bad breath, everything. Very hard to spot. I had to wait 'til he moved on you before I could zero him.
Hey, I'm not stupid, y'know. They can't build anything like that yet.
No. Not yet. Not for about forty years.
So, it's from the future, is that right?
One possible future. Four your point of view. I don't know the tech stuff.
And you're from the future too?
Right.
Just let me go.
Listen. Understand. That Terminator is out there. It can't be reasoned with, it can't be bargained with...it doesn't feel pity of remorse or fear... and it absolutely will not stop. Ever. Until you are dead.
There's so much...
Tell me. Just start at the beginning.
everythingis gone. Just gone. There were survivors. Here. There. Nobody knew who started it. It was the machines.
I don't understand...
Defense network computer. New. Powerful. Hooked into everything. Trusted to run it all. They say it got smart...a new order of intelli gence. Then it saw all people as a threat, not just the ones on the other side. Decided out fate in a microsecond...extermination.
Didn't see the war. I was born after, in the ruins. Grew up there. Starving. Hiding from the HK's.
The what?
Hunter Killers. Patrol machines. Build in automated factories. Most of us were rounded up, put in camps...for orderly disposal.
You cold?
Freezing.
Come here.
Reese...you got a first name?
Kyle.
Kyle, what's it like when you go through time?
White light. Pain. Like being ripped inside out... slowly. Like being born, maybe.
I caught one, back there.
Caught one? You mean you got shot?
We gotta get you to a doctor.
It's okay. Forget it.
Forget it? Are you crazy? Let me see it.
This is gonna make me puke. Talk about something.
What?
Just talk. Tell me about my son. Is he tall?
What's he like?
You trust him. He's got that strength. You'd die in a second for John.
Well, at least I know what to name him. I don't suppose you'd know who the father is? So I don't tell him to get lost when I meet him.
John never said much about him. He dies. Even before the war...
Stop! I don't want to know. Hold still. So...it was John that ordered you here?
I volunteered.
You volunteered?
It was an honor. A chance to meet the legend. Sarah Connor. Who taught her son to fight...organize, prepare. From when he was a kid. When you were in hiding, before the war.
I'm sure.
Come on, me? The mother of the future? Am I tough? Organized? I can't even balance my checkbook. I cry when I see a cat that's been run over... and I don't even like cats.
Ow! No, it's okay. It's better tight.
And anyway, what do I know about guerrilla warfare?
You'll learn.
Look, Reese, I didn't ask for this honor and I don't want it. Any of it.
John gave me a message for you. Made me memorize it. 'Sarah"...this is the message... 'Sarah, thank you. For your courage through the dark years. I can't help you with what you must soon face, except to tell you that the future is not set... there is no such thing as Fate, but what we make for ourselves by our own will. You must be stronger than you imagine you can be. You must survive, or I will never exist.' That's all.
Good fielddressing.
You like it? It's my first.
Sleep. It'll be light soon.
Okay. Talk some more.
About what?
About where you're from.
Bag some Z's?
Let's get cleaned up, Kyle.
Thanks a lot.
What's that?
That's where we're going.
Why?
Look. I found it. Isn't that it? Cyber Dynamics Corporation?
What about it?
Didn't you say that they're going to develop this revolutionary new thing...
Molecularmemory.
Whatever...they become the hotshot computer guys so they get the job to build El Computer Grande...Skynet...for the government. Right?
That's the way it was told to me.
Well, we're gonna uninvent the bastard. Eightysix it. We'll blow up the place...burn it down. Something.
Tactically dangerous. We lay low.
Reese. Think it through. We can prevent the war. Nobody else is gonna do it. If we go to anybody official we wind up back in jail and then that walking cuisinart has got us again. We have to so it ourselves.
That's not my mission.
Listen. Understand. I'm not a military objective, Reese. I'm a person... You don't own me.
Let's go. Time to move out.
Fuck you! Let go of me!
Kyle?
I'm wrong here. I wasn't meant to see this...
Is this enough?
Yes. And I don't want to know where you got it.
I'm dying for a shower. You could use one too. And we'd better check that bandage.
Later. I'm going out for materiel. Keep this.
What's that?
Nitroglycerin, basically. Bit more stable. I learned howto make it when I was a kid.
Make sure there's none on the threads, like this. Now screw the endcap on...very gently.
You must have had a fun child
That's good. Now, seven more like that while I make fuses.
I was thinking, there's so much I've got to show you when we get through this. It's mind boggling, the pos sibilities...Disneyland, the beach, movies...matinees with popcorn and footlong hot dogs...
Hot dogs?
I want to buy you a hot dog so bad,Kyle...all the things you've never seen and done. You're here, but wherever you go, and whatever you touch, you bring the war with you.
My whole life has been combat.
I want it to be over for you.
Not possible.
I want it to be over for me too. I feel like I slipped over some invisible line, that I'm in your world now. Everything's the same, but I see it differently. It's like, there's you and me, and him...but nobody else can understand or help or even touch us.
He'll find us, won't he?
Probably. Sarah, if I get zeroed...
Don't say that.
If I do, you have to get away, disappear without a trace. Different country, different name, everything. In case they send another one.
It'll never be over, will it? Look at me, I'm shaking. Some legend, huh? You must be pretty disappointed.
No. I'm not.
Kyle, the women in your time...what were they like?
Good fighters.
That's not what I meant. Was there someone special?
Someone?
A girl. You know.
No. Never.
So much pain.
Pain can be controlled. You disconnect it.
And so you feel nothing.
It's better that way.
Oh, Kyle.
I'm sorry. I shouldn't have said...
Kyle...
I bet you're ticklish.
Ticklish?
What are you doing?
You'll beg for mercy in a second.
I don't think I like this.
You're not supposed to.
Sarah.
We did it, Kyle. We got it.
What are you doing?
Cover...our footsteps...
I haven't seen you in here lately, Mr. Miller.
What's it to ya?
You must have a girlfriend.
That's none of your business.
Aha! Is she young?
Compared to me she is. How come you're not at the cash anymore? They catch ya steal ing?
What's it to ya?
I had him hooked. He was just about to ask me out. I could tell.
That guy's a jerk. I did you a favor.
I'll do the same for you sometime.
What do you think?
Great.
Great.
You're a big help.
Alright, the beige one.
I hate the beige one.
Don't wear the beige one.
Not lately. Did you check messages?
I thought you did.
That bum. So what if he has a Porsche, he can't treat you like that...it's Friday night for crissakes.
SARAH +++$+++
I'm going to a movie, kiddo. See ya'. You and Matt have a good time.
We will, kiddo.
Anything else?
A phased plasma pulselaser in the forty watt range...
Just what you see, pal.
The Uzi 9 millimeter.
You know your weapons, buddy.
Any one of them's ideal for home defense. Which'll it be?
All.
You can't to that...
Wrong.
Yes, Chuck?
Come to the office, please.
Mission control to Chuck, come in...
You're late.
Aren't I worth waiting for?
Not really. Do you think you can get here on time if I put you on the floor as a waitress?
I don't know. I kinda had my heart set on being a cashier the rest of my life.
The pay's the same but you'll make more in tips.
Thanks, Chuck. I need the money. Can I still work the hours around my classes?
Mmm. Same schedule's okay.
Alright!
Can you handle it?
It's not brain surgery, Chuck.
Here you go. You're a Bob's Girl now. Nancy will check you out.
I won't let the fat kid down.
Rudolf Otto Werner. Wind section since 1936. What instrument did you play?
First oboe.
I have your questionnaire here. It says you were never a member of the Nazi Party.
Absolutely not.
No, I was never a Nazi, I have no interest in politics, I'm a musician 
Hey, hey, slow up, Fraulein Straube has to take down what you say.
Dr. Furtwngler is a great musician. He actively opposed the Nazis and later on he helped many Jews to escape.
Then how do you explain him being made a Prussian Privy Councillor?
It was Hermann Goering. I was told he just made the maestro his Privy Councillor, no questions asked. Although Dr. Furtwngler stood up to him. And to Dr. Goebbels.
He also conducted for Hitler, didn't he?
Yes, that's true, but he refused to give the Nazi salute. He kept his baton in his right hand. In Hitler's presence. That was a brave act...
Brave? To celebrate Hitler's birthday with some heroic piece by Wagner but without the Nazi salute? Bravo.
It was Beethoven's Ninth.
Do you really think it was brave? Didn't he bow to him and shake his hand?
So, you never heard of him.
Nope.
Do you know who Arturo Toscanini is?
Sure.
He's as big as Toscanini, maybe even bigger. In this neck of the woods, he's probably Bob Hope and Betty Grable rolled into one.
Jeez, and I never heard of him.
You were in insurance before the war.
Right. Claims assessor.
Conscientious, determined, dogged.
They said I was dogged?
Well, they say here that when you went on a case, you stayed on it. Now we can't take every Nazi in this country to trial, although I would like to; it's an impossibility. So we're going for the big boys in industry, education, law, culture.
Like this bandleader.
Well, he's more than just a bandleader, Steve. He's a great conductor, a gifted artist. But we believe that he sold himself to the devil. Your number one priority from this moment on is to connect him to the Nazi Party. Don't be impressed by him. I want the folks back home to understand why we fought this war. Find Wilhelm Furtwngler guilty. He represents everything that was rotten in Germany.
Goebbels, yes, Josef Goebbels said, 'There's not a single filthy Jew left in Germany on whose behalf Dr. Furtwngler has not intervened.' No, no one could have been less of a Nazi than Dr. Furtwngler.
But this was the same guy who conducted for Adolf on his birthday.
He was forced to do that. But he refused to give the Nazi salute in front of Hitler. He kept his baton in his hand, you can't salute with a baton in your hand.
Oh! The evening before, I see...
Yes, Dr. Furtwngler was absolutely clear about this: politics and art must be kept separate.
Politics and art must be kept separate. I'll remember that. But let me see if you can help me with something I just don't understand. I'd really like to know why all you guys are so crazy about him. What's his secret?
You ever seen Adolf Hitler's eyes when he was making a speech? I've seen 'em on films.
Yes.
Was looking at Furtwngler like that?
I don't know what you mean, Major.
When you got to the crescendo.
Helmuth Alfred Rode. Second violinist since 1935. What's it mean, second violinist?
It means I wasn't good enough to be a first violinist.
Good, and according to your questionnaire, Helmuth, you never joined the Nazi Party.
Me? Never. Never.
Is it true you're going to interview Dr. Furtwngler today?
I'll ask the questions, Helmuth.
Excuse me. Did you know that he refused to give the Nazi salute when Hitler was present in the audience?
Oh, we didn't play for his birthday, we played the evening before  it was the 19th of April not the 20th.
Do you know Hans Hinkel?
Do I know Hans Hinkel?
That's what I asked.
Do I know Hans Hinkel?
You seem to understand the question, now how about answering it?
Hans Hinkel was in the Ministry of Culture; how could I know such a man? I
I hear the British have his... his archive, files, records.
Do you know what's in this archive?
How could I know what's in the archive?
Major.
Helmuth.
Guess what I am holding in my hand. You like guessing games?
Love 'em, Helmuth. I give up. What are you holding in your hand?
It's Dr. Furtwngler's baton, which I stole.
The one he kept in his right hand. Yes, you remember.
Yes, you remember.
How could I forget?
Show me.
Show you?
Yeah, show me, I want to see you do it. Pretend I'm Adolf. You're the maestro, and you have the baton in your right hand, but you give me the salute just the same.
Not here, Major, there are people, if anybody should see... please, please, Major...
Do it, Helmuth.
And I see what you mean. You nearly poked my eyes out.
Exactly. Replaces the baton, gives Steve the case.
Don't worry, Helmuth, it'll be our secret.
Great catch, kid. The boy runs off.
So. You wanted to see me.
You usually don't work on Sunday, Major?
All in the cause of humanity, Helmuth. Or should I call you one zerofourninethreethreeone?
What?
Onezerofourninethreethree one. Or d'you mind if I just call you 'one'?
Was a member of...? Speak up?
I was a member of the Communist Party. I was a communist. That's what Hinkel had over me. He knew everything. He held that over me. That's how he made me cooperate.
Oh, I see, he made you cooperate. And now are you a communist again?
You don't know what it's like to wake up every single morning of your life terrified, you don't know that 
I can give you freedom of movement, freedom to work, freedom, Helmuth. But I need something in return.
Major, we're discussing a man of genius, I don't want...
Fuck that, Helmuth. You want to discuss symbols here? This guy was a front man. He was the piper, but he played their tune, you get my philosophical meaning? I'm not interested in small fish, I'm after Moby Dick. Come on, Helmuth. Hard facts.
The only thing I know is he's an antiSemite.
Of course. You, too. Like everyone else in this goddamn country.
I've remembered something else...
Yeah?
Furtwngler sent Hitler a telegram for his birthday.
He did?
One of your people told me.
One of my people?
Yes. A corporal. US Army. A Jew. He said he'd seen the telegram in the Chancellery.
Sonofagun. We'll find the corporal and we'll find the telegram.
But I need documentary proof. You know of anything like that?
No. But that's why we hated him. We admired him as a conductor but we all hated him too because he didn't have to join the Party and yet he had a better life than any of us. He didn't have to go and deliver a report after every trip abroad. He got everything from them, everything. He was filthier than any of us Party members.
There's a rumour... I don't know if it's true or not... but ask him about von der Null.
Never heard of him, who is he?
Edwin von der Null. Music critic. He gave Furtwngler terrible reviews while he raved about Herbert von Karajan.
Who's he?
Also a conductor. Very brilliant. Young. Von der Null called him 'The Miracle von Karajan'. Furtwngler was outraged and they say he had von der Null conscripted into the army. The same thing happened to another critic. True or not, it's not such a bad idea. Critics give you bad reviews, you have them sent to the Russian front. But if you really want to get Furtwngler, ask him about Herbert von Karajan.
The Miracle Kid.
Yes, yes you may notice that he cannot even bring himself to utter his name, he... he refers to him as K.
And ask him about his private life.
His private life?
I want you to understand why you're here. You're automatically banned from public life under Control Council Directive No 24. We're here to look into your case before you appear in front of the Tribunal for Artists of the Denazification Commission. You understand that?
I have already been cleared by a Denazification Tribunal in Austria.
What they do in Austria doesn't interest me one little bit. Okay? I have your questionnaire here, Gustav Heinrich Ernst Martin Wilhelm Furtwngler, born Berlin, January 1886. Orchestral conductor. And you say here you were never a member of the Nazi Party.
That is correct.
Could you tell us about being made a Prussian Privy Councillor. How did that happen to a nonParty member?
I received a telegram from Hermann Goering informing me that he had made me a Privy Councillor. I was not given the opportunity either to accept or refuse. After the dreadful events of November 1938, the violent attacks on the Jews, I stopped using the title.
What about VicePresident of the Chamber of Music, you used that title didn't you? But then I suppose you had no choice there either, because I suppose Dr. Goebbels just sent you a telegram saying, Dear Mr. VicePresident.
I don't think Dr. Goebbels sent me a telegram. I was simply told. In a letter, I believe. I don't remember exactly.
Goebbels and Goering were sure heaping honours on you. One makes you a Privy Councillor, the other makes you VicePresident of the Chamber of Music, and you weren't even a member of the Party, how do you explain that?
Well, there was a constant battle between Goering and Goebbels as to which of them would control German culture. I was simply a pawn. Anyway, I resigned from the Musikkammer at the same time I resigned as Musical Director of the Berlin Philharmonic Orchestra. In 1934.
Then why did you conduct at one of their Nuremberg rallies?
I did not conduct at at the rally, I conducted on the evening before the rally.
That sounds like the small print in one of our insurance policies, Wilhelm. And what about April 19, 1942? The eve of Hitler's fifty third birthday, the big celebration; you conducted for Hitler, didn't you? Was that in keeping with your view that art and politics have nothing to do with each other?
That... that was a different matter, I... I was tricked.
How come?
Could I have a glass of water, please? Please, Fraulein?
I made no deal!
I don't buy that.
It's the truth.
I keep hearing you helped a lot of Jews to escape. How did you do that?
I don't remember in detail, there were so many.
Did you call someone you knew?
I may have, as... as I said, I simply don't remember.
Let me me help you, then. You picked up the phone and made a call  'Hello, Adolf? Wilhelm speaking. Listen, old pal, there's a Jewboy musician I want you to help. He needs a permit to get to Paris.'
Or maybe you called Goebbels or Goering? You were so close you were in the same shithouse as them.
May I ask a question?
Sure.
When will my case be heard by the Tribunal?
Your guess is as good as mine.
I need to work. I need to make my living. I live off the generosity of friends...
Tough, tough!
Then why is it, please, that another conductor who was actually a member of the Party, who used to play the Horst Wessel before his concerts, has already been cleared and is working again while I have to wait and wait and wait?
I don't know, he wasn't my case. Why did you escape to Switzerland just before the war ended?
It was because I learned that the Gestapo was about to arrest me.
Why were they going to arrest you?
I believe it was because of another letter I'd written to Goebbels lamenting the decline of musical standards due to racial policies.
You didn't complain about the racial policies, just about the musical standards, is that right?
So, how did you learn that the Gestapo was out to get you?
During an enforced hourlong interval because of a power failure at a concert here in Berlin, Albert Speer, the Minister of Armaments, said to me, 'You look very tired Dr. Furtwngler, you should go abroad for a while.' I knew exactly what he meant.
You sure knew a lot of people in high places.
It would be truer to say, I think, that a lot of people in high places knew me.
You were real close to all of them, to Adolf, to Hermann, to Joseph, to Baldur, and now Albert, So, let's hear the truth, let's come clean. What was your Party number?
If you are going to bully me like this, Major, you had better do your homework. You obviously have no idea how impertinent and stupid your questions are.
I have a list of names here, people in your profession, who got out in '33. Bruno Walter, Otto Klemperer, Arnold Schoenberg, Max Reinhardt...
They were Jews, they had to leave. They were right to leave. I could not leave my country in her deepest misery. After all, I am a German. I... I stayed in my homeland. Is that my sin in your eyes?
See, David? He can't answer the question. I'll ask it again, Wilhelm, and don't give me any more airyfairy, intellectual bullshit!
Steve Arnold...
I've had enough of this, I'm leaving.
I've got to hand it to the British, David. You know what those guys are? Decent. Tell me, Herr Dr. Furtwngler, do you know Hans Hinkel?
Yes, a despicable human being. He was in the Ministry of Culture. His job was to get rid of Jews in the arts.
Yup, that's him, that's the guy. You know what else the little creep did? He kept files, close on 250,000 files. And you know what's in those files?
Certainly not, but I knew he had informers everywhere. Even in my orchestra there was someone
Who?
I wasn't told. I just knew it.
How?
I was warned.
Who warned you?
Goering. Because Hinkel was working for Goebbels.
What did Goering say?
He told me to be careful as one of Goebbels' men was watching me. He read a report on me  everything I said was quoted word by word.
Oh boy, you're gonna love this. Take your time with this now. Those files contain the details of every working artist in this country. Those files are gonna tell us who joined the Party, who informed and who was helpful.
It is now nine o'clock precisely. I do not intend to be kept waiting again.
Don't talk to me like I was a second violinist. Go back into the waiting room. Miss Straube will come and get you when I am ready to see you.
If it's too hot, open your tie.
I wish to say something.
Go ahead, be my guest.
When I last saw you, I was unprepared. I did not know what to expect. In these past weeks, I have been thinking more carefully and making some notes. You have to understand who I am and what I am. I am a musician and I believe in music. I am an artist and I believe in art. Art in general, and music, in particular, has for me mystical powers which nurture man's spiritual needs. I must confess, however, to being extremely naive. I insisted for many years on the absolute separation of art and politics. My entire life was devoted to music because, and this is very important, because I thought that I could, through music, do something practical.
And what was that?
Maintain liberty, humanity and justice.
Gee, that's a thing of beauty, honest to God, a real thing of beauty. I'm going to try to remember that. Liberty, humanity and justice. Beautiful. But you used the word 'naive'. Are you now saying you think you were wrong? That art and politics can't be separated?
I believe art and politics should be separate, but that they weren't kept separate I learned to my cost.
And when did you first learn that  when you sent the telegram? Was that the surrender signal, the waving of the white flag?
What telegram?
'Happy birthday, dear Adolf, love Wilhelm.' Or words to that effect. That sounds to me like you were dropping on your knees and saying, 'Okay, Adolf, you win. You're the number one man. Have a swell party.'
I have no idea what you're talking about.
The birthday greetings you sent to your old pal, Adolf Hider.
I never sent him any birthday greetings or any other kind of greetings.
Think carefully, Wilhelm... maybe not in your own name, but as Privy Councillor or VicePresident.
I don't have to think carefully. This is utterly ridiculous.
You won't find it because no such telegram exists.
Well, I tried, you got to admit I tried. I thought I might just trap you there, Wilhelm, but David here was too quick for me. Smart move, David, smart move. No, I don't have the telegram, but I know it exists. And I want you to know, Wilhelm, we're going to keep looking for it because I believe you sent it.
Then you are wrong.
Art and politics, yeah, art and politics. Let's look at that. You and the Berlin Philharmonic toured the Third Reich, played in countries the Nazis had conquered. Are you saying that conducting in occupied territories from 1939 on wasn't a commercial for Adolf and all he stood for?
We never, never officially represented the regime when we played abroad. We always performed as a private ensemble. As I think I already told you, I was a freelance conductor.
You know something? You should've written our insurance policies for us because you got more exclusion clauses than Double Indemnity. What do you imagine people thought? The Berlin Philharmonic's taken over by Doctor Goebbels and his Propaganda Ministry but Wilhelm is a freelance, so art and politics are now entirely separate? Is that what you believed ordinary people thought?
have no idea what ordinary people thought.
No!
No, because I had only one intention. My only intention whatever I did was to show that music means more than politics.
Tell me about von der Null.
Von der Null?
Yes, von der Null.
Von der Null?
How long's this going to go on, Wilhelm? I say von der Null, you say von der Null, I say von der Null, you say von der Null, we could go on all day. You know who von der Null is, don't you? Edwin von der Nuell, music critic.
Yes, I know who he is.
Isn't it true that because he gave you bad reviews and praised this young guy, Von Karajan, called him a goddamn miracle, said he was a better conductor than you, then you had von der Null conscripted into the army and no one's heard from him since?
That's an outrageous lie!
You sure you didn't call one of your close buddies and say, God in heaven, did you see what that guy von der Null wrote about me? The greatest conductor on earth. I want him out the way. He had the nerve to accuse me I am not playing enough modern music. Send him to Stalingrad. Isn't that what you did? You don't like criticism, do you, Wilhelm? You surely didn't like them saying there was another conductor who was better than you... Are you saying the name von der Null was never mentioned in your talks with Goebbels?
Well. Once he said he'd read what this man wrote about me.
And what did he say?
He said, 'Don't mind him. His job is to criticise, your job is to conduct.'
And what happened to Von der Nul?
I have no idea.
You've really no idea? I'll tell you what happened. He died in Stalingrad.
I'm sorry.
Now, that young conductor what's his name? That miracle kid, you know who I mean. Von Karajan! But you called him something else. C'mon. What did you call von Karajan?
Please stop playing these games with me. Why you should bring up the name of another conductor is beyond my understanding.
I'll tell you why. You remember we talked about you playing for Hitler's birthday? And you told me that Goebbels got to your doctors first, that you were tricked?
Yes, that's what happened.
Come on, admit it. K worried you, didn't he? He always worried you. In 1942, he's thirtyfour years old, you're already fiftysix. And Goebbels and Goering keep saying to you, 'If you don't do it, little K will.' Never mind art and politics and symbols and airyfairy bullshit about liberty, humanity and justice because I don't care how great you are. It's the oldest story in the book, The ageing Romeo jealous of the young buck. The real reason you didn't leave the country when you knew you should have was that you were frightened that, once you were out of the way, you'd be supplanted by the Miracle Kid, the Party's boy twice over, flashy, talented little K.
This is absolute nonsense!
Well, I'm just beginning to develop my theme. Isn't that what you call it in classical music, developing your theme? Okay, so they played on your insecurity. That's human, understandable. But, there is one guy who doesn't like little K as much as he likes you  yeah, the number one man your old pal, Adolf. He thinks you're the greatest, and when he says, I want Wilhelm for my birthday, boy, they better go out get Wilhelm. So, Josef calls and threatens you with little K. And you said to hell with the Ninth in Vienna, I'll give it to Adolf as a birthday present in Berlin. That's the trick they played, they got you by the balls and they squeezed. Hard. Why did you stay? Why did you play for them? Why were you the flagcarrier for their regime? Jealousy?
Of course there was a conspiracy against me, a campaign  even abroad.
I have illegitimate children.
What?
I said I have illegitimate children. I don't know how many.
You like the women, don't you, Wilhelm?
Stop this, please, stop this now!
No, I'm not going to stop it. Hitler himself offered you a beautiful house and a personal bomb shelter.
I absolutely refused the house and the bomb shelter.
But you see what I'm getting at? You get a gorgeous house, you're highly paid. What are you gonna do, stay or leave? One voice comes back at me: stay!
Okay, Wilhelm, go home now. Go home and think about these past twelve years.
I don't understand what you mean.
No, that's your problem, Wilhelm. You understand nothing. We'll call you. Go!
Everybody says what a great benefactor you were to the Jews. But I have things here you said and wrote. Listen to this: 'The Jew composer Schonberg is admired by the Jewish International.' And what about this: 'Jewish musicians lack a genuine affinity with our music.' 'Jewish musicians are good businessmen with few scruples, lacking roots.' You deny you said these things?
Those attitudes do not exist in me.
I believe that. But just answer the question, don't give me explanations.
Speaking to Party members I used their language, of course I did, everyone did.
Do you know what that is?
Of course I know what that is.
Okay, so what is it?
Bruckner's Seventh. The Adagio.
Who's conducting?
How can I know such a thing?
I'll tell you, then. The last time this music was played on these air waves was after they announced that your pal Hitler had shot himself. Listen to it. They listen. Did they pick little K's recording? Did they pick some other conductor? No, they picked you, and why? Because you represented them so beautifully. When the Devil died, they wanted his bandleader to conduct the funeral march. You were everything to them.
Have you ever smelled burning flesh? I smelt it four miles away. Four miles away, I smelt it. Have you ever seen the gas chambers, the crematoria? Have you seen the mounds of rotting corpses? You talk to me about culture, art and music? You putting that in the scales, Wilhelm? You setting culture, art and music against the millions put to death by your pals? They had orchestras in the camps. They played Beethoven, Wagner. The hangmen were playing chamber music at home with their families. I don't understand the Germans' relationship with music. What do you need music for? Your pals you could call to save a few Jews when millions of them were being annihilated? Yes, I blame you for not getting hanged, I blame you for your cowardice. You strutted and swaggered, you fucking piece of shit, kingpin in a shithouse. You talk to me about walking a tightrope between exile and the gallows, and I say to you, lies!
I love my country, I believe in music, what was I to do?
Look around you. See the country you served. Look at people who had real courage, who took risks, who risked their lives. Like Emmi's father.
You live here, in Berlin?
Yes.
You do shorthand and typing?
Yes.
Okay, let's see. How long were you in the camp for?
Three months.
Says here because of your father. What's that mean?
My father was one of the officers in the plot against Hitler. They arrested the plotters and their families.
Your mother, too.
Yes. She suffered longer. She was in Ravensbruck.
And your father was executed.
Steve.
There have been messages for you. A Lieutenant David Wills called from the Allied Kommandatura Cultural Affairs office in Wiesbaden. I don't know who he is.
Think you can get me any of that?
Oh yes, Major, I have recordings of all his symphonies. I kept them safe during the bombing. My favourite is the Seventh Symphony.
Mine's the Eleventh.
But... he only wrote nine, Major.
I'm kidding, Emmi. What about a record player? You have that, too?
No. Ours was damaged.
What's in those files?
The names of the members of the Berlin Philharmonic Orchestra since 1934 together with their questionnaires. Major, what am I to tell Dr. Furtwngler?
You tell him nothing, Emmi. If he calls again, you say you know nothing. We're gonna keep him waiting while I get acquainted with his case and with the witnesses. And, God help me, with Beethoven.
I'm sorry.
Come in, Emmi, this is your office, too. Emmi, this is Lieutenant David Wills.
Major, Major... he's here ...
Shut the door, Emmi. Sit down, Emmi. We're going to keep him waiting, too.
Bruckner's Seventh, Major.
Do you know where the Adagio begins?
Of course.
Put it on ready to play, and I'll tell you when to play it.
I'm sorry but I have to leave. I'll find other work. You'll have to get someone else, that's all.
What is this, Emmi?
I can't do this. It's not right.
What's not right?
I have been questioned by the Gestapo just like that. Just like you questioned him.
Emmi, stop! I want to show you something. Let me show you something and then if you want to leave, you can leave, please please. His friends, they did this. And he gave them birthday concerts.
But he had no idea, a lot of people had no idea. I only realised what was really going on when I got arrested.
If he had no idea, why did the Jews need saving? This is the question, Emmi, to all Germans: Why did the Jews need saving in this country? Why, if people had no idea?
I would like to go now, please.
Hello, Major, my name is Dymshitz. I'm glad to see you.
Colonel. Pleasure.
So, Major, tell me, have you questioned Dr. Furtwngler?
Not yet.
I've had two meetings with him. He's a great musician. Maybe the greatest conductor in the world. His Brahms, Beethoven, Schubert  unequalled.
I was in Vienna. I had with me an Austrian chauffeur, Max his name was, he spent time in the camps. We were looking at these Viennese cleaning up the bomb damage, scavenging for rotting food, butt ends, anything. I said, 'To think a million of these people came out to welcome Adolf on the day he entered the city, a million of 'em, and now look at 'em.' And Max said, 'Oh, not these people, Major. These people were all at home hiding Jews in their attics.' You get the point, Colonel? The point is they're all full of shit.
Furtwngler's in a different category.
We're dealing with degenerates here.
A great artist will have great privileges in a Russian zone.
That's why he didn't get the hell out of here when he had the chance! I put that to him, he couldn't answer. Why didn't he go and direct in America, like that Italian, Toscanini.
Colonel. He had no sisters, no brothers, only a lot of love affairs.
Anyway, Major, why should he leave his country, his mother tongue, his family, his history, his past, his future, just because now, suddenly, there is a dictatorship? Why?
But what... before that turns rotten... What if they surround the space with barbed wire, Colonel?
Don't talk about things you know nothing about. He was in a dictatorship!
Yeah, yeah, art and politics, yeah, yeah, I heard all about that.
In a dictatorship, art belongs to the Party. If you want to be a conductor, you have to have an orchestra. And you can only get an orchestra if you have contact with the power. All over the world you need the right contacts and you have to make the right compromises.
This is what I'm saying. He must have had Party contacts.
There are good Party members who help, and there are dirty nonParty members who inform on you. Of course, they gave him privileges.
And suddenly, Steve, suddenly you notice that they like you. They honour you, suddenly you are the director of the best museum in the world, for example.
What museum?
I'm sorry. Museum? Not... I said orchestra. Sorry. Believe me. Help me, Steve. You say you answer for someone from high up. I, too, have orders from high up. Very high up. We want Furtwngler. I'll give you in return the whole orchestra, four, five conductors. I need him, Steve.
No can do.
Let Furtwngler go. Please.
I have a duty.
Duty? I am sorry, duty? Duty fucking duty. Trouble is, you Americans want everybody to live like you. We liberated Berlin, Major Steve, not you. Our duty also is to bring back the best of German culture.
I'm gonna get that fucking bandleader, Colonel. No deal. No fucking deal.
Then you're going to kill me.
Lieutenant Wills reporting to Major Arnold. Sir.
For Chrissakes I hate that shit, cut it out.
I'm very sorry.
I'm Steve. What's your name?
David. David Wills. I'm your liaison officer with the Allied Kommandatura Cultural Affairs Committee. Sir.
Sounds a lot of run. So they sent the big guns to check up on me. We recruiting children now?
I guess so, sir.
You call me sir again and I'll make you listen to Beethoven.
Where you from, David?
was born here, in Leipzig. I escaped in '36. My parents, they sent me to my uncle in Philadelphia. They were to follow. But they delayed and...
I guess you admire musicians.
Some.
Don't. This is like a criminal investigation, David. Musicians, morticians, doctors, lawyers, butchers, clerks. They're all the same.
You think a whole orchestra, what, a hundred and forty or so guys, could be orchestrated?
I guess it's possible.
So, what does the Russki want?
Colonel Dymshitz asked specially to see you.
'Dimshits'?
What the hell are they doing?
They're trying to sort out some of the works of art the Nazis stole from occupied territories. Who really owns what? That's Colonel Dymshitz, on the far side.
David, need to ask you something. You heard this rumour the British found something called the Hinkel Archive?
Yes.
So what is it?
The British occupy the building where this guy, Hinkel, ran the Nazi Ministry of Culture and it seems they've... they've discovered his secret archive.
What's that mean?
I don't know, but the British are excited about it, I know that. The rumour is Hinkel kept a file on every artist working in the Third Reich.
Jeez. And you think the British'll share it with their Allies?
Major Richards said he'd call to let us know.
That's big of him.
Okay, better question the next witness. I bet you a bottle of French champagne he tells us the baton story inside ten minutes.
Five minutes.
It's a bet. You're the witness, Emmi.
You have a question for Helmuth, David?
Yes. What was the orchestra's reaction when they asked you to play for Hitler's birthday?
Yes, David?
Why not show Dr. Furtwngler the evidence. It may refresh his memory?
You see, Wilhelm, I'm talking about ordinary, everyday reasons. Which is why I want to discuss your private life. How many illegitimate children do you have?
Major, I don't see how this line of questioning could...
David, what are you Counsel for the Defence now? Did you hear the question?
Isn't it true that before every concert you got a woman in your dressing room and gave her the old conductor's baton, isn't that true?
Major, this is deeply offensive and repugnant!
You bet.
and totally irrelevant.
Not so, Counsellor. That secretary of yours, she wasn't just your secretary, she procured women for you, didn't she? As many and as often as you wanted.
Major, that's not a good argument. If Dr. Furtwngler did indeed enjoy all these... these privileges, he enjoyed them because of who he is and what he is. That's true of any leading artist in any country in the world.
But it still doesn't make them saints. They still have to get up and piss in the middle of the night, don't they? They can still be vindictive and envious and mean just like you and me. Well, just like me. Can't they?
What?
Your manner.
My manner? Why don't you go downstairs, get a cup of coffee and calm down? What's the matter, Emmi? What's going on with you? What's wrong?
Can I ask you a favour, Major?
Yeah.
When you question him again, could you treat him with more respect?
With more what? More what?
Major, he may just be the greatest conductor of this century and that merits respect.
David, I don't understand a thing about you. You're a Jew. Are you a Jew?
Yes, I'm a Jew. But I like to think first I'm a human being.
A human being, oh, good, I'm relieved, I thought you were going to say you were a music lover. This man, this great artist has made antiSemitic remarks like you wouldn't believe. I got letters.
Major, show me someone who hasn't made an antiSemitic remark and I'll show you the gates of paradise.
What is it with you, David? Where are your feelings? Where's your hatred, your disgust? Where's your fucking outrage, David?
That's because you had a proper upbringing.
That's right. I was raised very strictly. So don't speak before you are spoken to!
Oh! And don't wave your hands about!
Respect your elders and your betters!
And no elbows on the table!
Eating is eating... and...
And talking is talking! Well, I think we better get on.
Right. So, this is going to be very formal, too, now. Lieutenant David Wills requests die pleasure of die company of Fraulein Emmi Straube at dinner any night she cares.
What does he mean, too correct?
I don't know.
Don't see me to my door, there's no need.
But I promised your mother.
Yesterday I read that Furtwngler was asked to lead the New York Philharmonic back in '36, Toscanini suggested it. Had he accepted, he would have become the most celebrated conductor in America.
When he made his decision, he couldn't have known everything. Especially not the way people like you do, who've returned from exile and feel that you have a right to pass judgement. Because you are blameless, you think you know best who is a sinner and who deserves forgiveness. But you have no idea how people lived here.
When he met Hitler at his birthday and shook hands with him, was he pleased?
I don't know. But you and I already know that he has saved lives.
'Please remember that Dr. Furtwngler risked his life to help anyone who asked him. I personally testify to having seen literally hundreds of people lined up outside his dressing room after concerts to ask for his help. He never turned anyone away. After he heard me play... I am a violinist... he gave me money because I was unable to feed myself or my family and then he helped me to escape to Sweden. He helped countless people in similar ways.'
And this, only one of these letters, Major. I have lots of them.
Where do you stand on all this?
On all what?
On Furtwngler.
I don't know.
You represent the United States now. We have a moral duty to be just and we have to be seen to be just.
Major Arnold believes he has a moral duty, too.
Our duty is to help Furtwngler with his defence, That's why I want you to look at this... These are part of the transcripts of the trial at Nuremberg. We can't get them translated fast enough. But I guess you understand German, right?
... it's... like a giant strobe light, burning right through my eyes... but somehow I can still see. Look, you know the dream's the same every night, why do I have to 
Please continue...
It's not just a dream. It's real, you moron! I know the date is happens!!
I'm sure it feels very real to you 
On August 29th 1997 it's going to feel pretty fucking real to you, too! Anybody not wearing number two million sunblock in gonna have a real bad day, get it?
Relax now, Sarah 
You think you're alive and safe, but you're already dead. Everybody, you, him... everybody... you're all fucking dead!
This T1000... what happens when you shoot it?
Ballistic penetration shocks it, but only for a few seconds.
Can it be destroyed?
Unknown.
You look like handmade shit.
So do you.
I'll bet. Makes you a more efficient killer, right?
Correct.
My CPU is a neuralnet processor... a learning computer. But Skynet presets the switch to "readonly" when we are sent out alone.
Doesn't want you thinking too much, huh?
No.
The man most directly responsible is Miles Bennet Dyson, Director of Special Projects at Cyberdyne Systems Corporation.
Why him?
In a few months he creates a revolutionary type of mircoprocessor.
Then what?
In three years Cyberdyne will become the largest supplier of military computer systems. All stealth bombers are upgraded with Cyberdyne computers, becoming fully unmanned, Afterward, the fly with a perfect operational record.
Uh huh, great. Then those fat fucks in Washington figure, what the hell, let a computer run the whole show, right?
Basically. The Skynet funding bill is passed. The system goes online August 4th, 1997. Human decisions are removed from strategic defense. Skynet begins to learn, at a geometric rate. It becomes selfaware at 2:14 a.m. eastern time, August 29. In a panic, they try to pull the plug.
And Skynet fights back.
Yes. It launches its ICBMs against their targets in Russia.
Why attack Russia?
Because Skynet knows the Russian counterstrike will remove its enemies here.
Jesus. How much do you know about Dyson?
I have detailed files.
I want to know everything. What he looks like. Where he lives. Everything.
The CPU from the first terminator.
Son of a bitch, I knew it!
I must be destroyed.
Can you get us in there, past security?
Is it safe for them here?
Take your kids. Go to a hotel. Right now. Don't pack. Let's go.
It's finally over.
No. There is another chip.
Are you afraid?
Yes.
It has helped me a lot to have a goal, something to look forward to.
And what it that?
You said I could be transferred to the minimum security wing and have visitors if I showed improvement in six months. Well, it's been six months, and I was looking forward to seeing my son.
I see. Let's go back to what you were saying about these terminator machines. Now you think they don't exist?
But you've told me on many occasions about how you crushed one in a hydraulic press.
If I had, there would have been some evidence. They would have found something at the factory.
I see. So you don't believe anymore that the company covered it up?
So what do you think, Doctor? I've shown a lot of improvement, haven't I?
You see, Sarah... here's the problem. I know how smart you are, and I think you're just telling me what I want to hear. I don't think you really believe who you've been telling me today.
You broke my arm!
There's 215 bones in the human body, motherfucker. That's one. Now don't move!
You're already dead, Silberman. Everybody here dies. You know I believe that. So don't fuck with me!
Open the goddamn door!
I know. This is a dream, Sarah.
Oh. Yeah. They... make me take this stuff...
I love you. I always will.
Oh, God... Kyle. I need you so much.
They took him from me.
It's John who's the target now. You have to protect him. He's wide open.
I know!
Don't quit, Sarah. Our son need you.
I know, but I'm not as strong as I'm supposed to be. I can't do it. I'm screwing up the mission.
Remember the message... the future is not set. There is not fate but what we make for ourselves.
Kyle, don't go!
There's not much time left in the world, Sarah.
Out of the way, John!
No! Don't kill him!
It, John. Not him. It.
Alright, it! We need it!
We're better off by ourselves.
But it's the only proof we have to the future... about the war and all that.
I don't trust it! These things are hard to kill, John, believe me, I know. We may never have this opportunity again.
Look, Mom, if I'm supposed to ever be this great leader, you should start listening to my leadership ideas once in a while. 'Cause if you won't, nobody else will.
Yeah. Drag, huh?
I need to know how Skynet get built. Who's responsible?
Mom? You okay?
I couldn't... oh, God. You... came here... to stop me?
Uh huh.
It's okay. It'll by okay. We'll figure it out.
I love you, John. I always have.
I know, Mom. I know.
Yeah. Right. How were you supposed to know? Fucking men... all you know how to do is thrust into the world with your... fucking ideas and your weapons. Did you know that every gun in the world is named after a man? Colt, Browning, Smith, Thompson, Kalashnikov... all men. Men built the hydrogen bomb, not women... men like you thought it up. You're so creative. You don't know what it's like to really create something... to create a life. To feel it growing inside you. All you know how to create is death... you fucking bastards.
Mom, Mom, we need to be more constructive here. I don't see this as a genderrelated issue. She's still tense. We still have to figure out how to stop it all from happening. Right?
I got it. Piece of cake.
Go! I'll finish here.
Ready to rock?
Ready.
John, get out of the way!!
SHOOT!!!!
Your foster parents are kinda dicks, right?
Gimme that Phillips right there.
Easy money!
Where'd you learn all this stuff?
So she's pretty cool, huh?
Actually, no, she's a complete psycho. That's why she's up at Pescedero. She tries to blow up a computer factory, but she got shot and arrested.
No shit?
Yeah, she's a total loser. C'mon, let's check out the 7Eleven, whatya say?
Now don't take this the wrong way, but you are a terminator, right?
Yes. Cyberdyne Systems, Model 101.
No way!
Holy shit... you're really real! I mean... whoah! You're, uh... like a machine underneath, right... but sort of alive outside?
I'm a cybernetic organism. Living tissue over a metal endoskeleton.
This in intense. Get a grip, John. Okay, uh... you're not here to kill me... I figured that part out for myself. So what's the deal?
My mission is to protect you.
Yeah? Who sent you?
You did. Thirty years from now you reprogrammed me to be your protector here, in this time.
So this other guy? He's a terminator too, right, like you?
Not like me. A T1000. Advanced prototype. A mimetic polyalloy.
What does that mean?
Liquid metal.
Radical.
You are targeted for termination. The T1000 will not stop until it complete its mission. Ever.
Where we going?
We have to leave the city, immediately. And avoid the authorities.
Can I stop by my house?
Negative. The T1000 will definitely try to reacquire you there.
You sure?
I would.
I'm right here. I'm fine. What's the dog's name?
Max.
I need a minute here, okay? You're telling me it can imitate anything it touches?
Anything it samples by physical contact.
Like it could disguise itself as anything... a pack of cigarettes?
No. Only an object of equal size.
Well, why doesn't become a bomb or something to get me?
It can't form complex machines. Guns and explosives have chemicals, moving parts. It doesn't work that way. But it can form solid metal shapes.
We spent a lot of time in Nicaragua... places like that. For a while she was with this crazy exGreen Beret guy, running guns. Then there were some other guys. She'd shack up with anybody she could learn from. So then she could teach me how to be this great military leader. Then she gets busted and it's like... sorry kid, your mom's a psycho. Didn't you know? It's like... everything I'd been brought up to believe was just madeup fantasy, right? I hated her for that. But everything she said was true. We gotta get her out of there.
Negative. The T1000's highest probability for success now would be to copy Sarah Connor and wait for you to make contact with her.
Oh, great. And what happens to her?
Typically, the subject being copied is terminated.
TERMINATED!? Shit! Why didn't you tell me? We gotta right now!
Negative. She is not a mission priority.
Yeah, well fuck you, she's a priority to me!
Oww! Why'd you do that?
You told me to.
You have to do what I say?!
That is one of my mission parameters.
Prove it... stand on one foot.
Jesus... you were gonna kill that guy!
Of course. I'm a terminator.
Listen to me, very carefully, okay? You're not a terminator any more. Alright? You got that? You can't just go around killing people!
Why?
Whattaya mean, why? 'Cause you can't!
Why?
You just can't, okay? Trust me on this.
Now remember, you're not gonna kill anyone, right?
Right.
Swear.
What?
Just say "I swear I won't kill anyone."
Everything.
Cool.
Does it hurt?
I sense injuries. The data could be called pain.
How long do you live? I mean, last?
A hundred and twenty years on my existing power cell.
Affirmative.
No, no, no. You gotta listen to the way people talk. See, you don't say like "Affirmative" or some shit like that. You say... no problemo.
It someone comes off to you with an attitude, you say "eat me"... if you wanna shine them on, it's "Hasta la vista, baby".
"Hasta la vista, baby"?
Yeah, or "later, dickwad." Or if someone gets upset you say "chill out." Like that. Or you can do combinations.
Chill out, dickwad.
That's great! See, you're getting it.
No problemo.
And that's another thing. You could lighten up a bit, yourself. This severe routine is getting old. Smile once in a while.
Smile?
Yeah. Smile. You know. People smile, right? Watch.
We're not gonna make it, are we? People, I mean.
It is in your nature to destroy yourselves.
Excellent.
Yeah, I thought you'd like this place.
Not even of dying?
No.
You don't feel any emotion about it one way or the other?
No. I have to stay functional until my mission is complete. Then it doesn't matter.
Torque wrench please.
Here. I wish I coulda met my real dad.
You will.
Yeah. I guess so. My mom says when I'm, like, 45, I think, I send him back through time to 1984. But right now he hasn't even been born yet. Man, is messes with your head. Where's that other bolt? Thanks. Mom and him were only together for one night, but she still loves him, I guess. I see her crying sometimes. She denies it totally, of course. Like she says she got something in her eye.
Why do you cry?
You mean people? I don't know. We just cry. You know. When it hurts.
Pain causes it?
Uhunh, no, it's different... It's when there's nothing wrong with you but you hurt anyway. You get it?
No.
Alriight!! My man!
No problemo.
"No fate." No fate but what we make. My father told her this... I mean I made him memorize it, up in the future, as a message to her  Never mind. Okay, the whole thing goes "The future is not set. There is no fate but what we make for ourselves."
She intends to change the future somehow.
I guess, yeah  Oh shit!!
Dyson.
Yeah, gotta be! Miles Dyson! She's gonna blow him away!
This is tactically dangerous.
Drive faster.
The T1000 has the same files that I do. It could anticipate this move and reacquire you at Dyson's house.
I don't care. We've gotta stop her.
Killing Dyson might actually prevent the war.
I don't care!! There's gotta be another way. Haven't you learned anything?! Haven't you figured out why you can't kill people?
I'll deal with the police.
Remember what I said, you can't...
Trust me.
Drive for a minute.
Where you going?!
We don't have much time.
What?
Is it dead?
Terminated.
Will it melt in there?
Yes. Throw it in.
No!
I'm sorry, John.
No, no no!! It'll be okay. Stay with us!
I have to go away, John.
Don't do it. Please... don't go 
It must end here... or I am the future.
I order you not to!
Do you have bandages?
In the bathroom. Danny, can you get them for us?
My God.
Now listen to me very carefully.
Look, whatever you want me to do, I'll do. I just want my kids to have a chance to grow up, okay?
No one must follow your work.
Alright, yeah. You're right. We have to destroy the stuff at the lab, the files, disk drive... and everything I have here. Everything! I don't care.
No good.
Let me try mine.
Please... let... the kids... go...
Shut up! SHUT UP!! Motherfucker! It's all your fault! IT'S YOUR FAULT!!
Do you know about the chip?
What chip?
They have it in a vault at Cyberdyne... It's gotta be from the other one like you.
They told us not to ask where they got it. I thought... Japan... hell, I don't know. I didn't want to know.
Those lying motherfuckers!
I was scary stuff, radically advanced. It was shattered... didn't work. But it gave us ideas, It took us in new directions... things we would never have thought of. All this work is based on it.
We should abort.
NO!! We're going all the way! You got that, Dyson?
You going to work all day?
I'm sorry, baby. This thing is just kicking my ass. I thought we had it with this one...
... but the output went to shit after three seconds. I'm thinking now it's the way I'm matrixing the command hierarchies...
You need a break. You'll see it clear when you come back.
I can't
Miles, it's Sunday. You promised to take the kids to Raging Waters today.
Oh. I can't, honey. I'm on a roll here.
Baby, this thing is going to blow 'em all away. It's a neuralnet process 
I know. You told me. It's a neuralnet processor. It thinks and learns like we do. It's superconducting at room temperature. Other computer are pocket calculators by comparison. But why is that so goddamn important, Miles? I really need to know, 'cause I feel like I'm going crazy here, sometimes.
I'm sorry, honey, it's just that I'm thiiis close.
Imagine a jetline with a pilot that never makes a mistake, never gets tired, never shows up to work with a hangover. Meet the pilot.
Why did you marry me, Miles? Why did we have these two children? You don't need us. Your heart and your mind are in here. But it doesn't love you like we do.
But I thought... aren't we changing things? I mean... right now? Changing the way it goes?
That's right! There's no way I'm going to finish the new processor now. Forget it. I'm out of it. I'm quitting Cyberdyne tomorrow... I'll sell real estate, I don't care,,,
This is big, you know. Very big! Let's go out later, drink some firewater. With the boys. Fred can call Millie and 
Steve, I'd rather you didn't say anything for a day or two...until I tell my brother...
You haven't told him yet...
I'm telling him in the morning after breakfast.
Steve, my brother isn't as bad as he's painted. He isn't perfect, but 
But he isn't going to like this, Susie. And he makes you nervous, not me. No, I take that back  he makes me nervous, too. But I wouldn't give him a second thought if not for you.
His stooge, Falco, is around  I saw him walk in. He's been spying on me for weeks, Susie.
Darling, I don't care  really I don't. Sidney'd had a secret crush on me for years, but nothing we do is his business 
But he could be reporting back to your brother, couldn't he?
Steve, dear, please forget all of this. What can it matter after tomorrow?
I have a message for you; I love you. May I dedicate the next number to you?...And the next, and the next. Every Sunday I'll buy you a new bonnet 
If the stores are open 
And on Monday, I'll take it off and stroke your light brown hair and 
And on Tuesday  Hasenpfeffer. STEVE How do you think I realized I love you?
I made you write a beautiful song...
No, you had me eating that Chinese food!...
I get the feeling, Falco, that you're always snooping around...
Steve, stop it please...
Hello, Steve. I'm glad you could come.
Why did you call me?
Would you buy me a cup of coffee? In there...
Steve...what you tried to do today...you tried to take me up on a high mountain...I couldn't go all the way...I failed you... Will you forgive me? Have I lost you, Steve? Have I...?
Well, maybe I was wrong, too... But there's no doubt, Susie, that we have to face some serious things...
No one's ever stood up to my brother the way you did.
But you didn't do much about it, Susie. You walked out, and there I was...solo...and not too good at that.
I just didn't think that I could antagonize him, Steve  for OUR sake, I mean.
Susie, I was there for OUR sake, too. But what a world it would be if we were all afraid to learn to walk and talk because it might offend poppa! By the way, I think your brother was completely responsible for the smears...
Steve, I...
But I don't care about that now. He knew what he was doing today. He was laying down the conditions under which he MIGHT consent to our marriage  if I would bend to every whim of his, like Sidney! I couldn't do that, Susie...
No! I'm saying that for your sake you have to make a clean break with your brother!
But, please, Steve, please  one step at a time! I was born only yesterday!...
I told your brother I couldn't be his accomplice. I can't be yours either, Susie, and encourage him to go on pulverizing you. I know what type  he's my old man all over again!
Steve, I feel exhausted...what do you want me to do?
Not what you're doing now. At least don't ask me  don't ask him. You're fighting for your life! What do YOU want to do?
You are saying goodbye, aren't you...?
Jimmy! This is a coincidence. I am just going 
Yeah. A coincidence you should run into the very man you've been ducking all week! This is my press agent, Joan.
I tried to reach you twice 
What do you do for that hundred a week. Fall out of bed?
Jimmy, I'm on my way inside right now to talk to Hunsecker. I can promise you 
Joan, call a cop! We'll arrest this kid for larceny!
Listen, when your band was playing at Roseland 
That was two months ago. Take your hand out of my pocket, thief!
No more you don't! What is this  You're showing off for her? They're supposed to hear you in Korea?
He's intuitive  he knows he's getting fired!
If you're funny, James, I'm a pretzel! Drop dead!
You're touchy, Sidney  don't be so touchy...
I wasn't looking for a brawl. I came to bring him a present. Wanna bite to eat?
Feels like a Monday night, don't it...?
Not to me. Sometimes, the world feels like a cage. Then someone comes along and opens the door...and it's never Monday night again... I wish you and Steve could like each other.
We stick in each others craw.
Yes, but why?
Well, for one thing, he thinks J.J. is some kind of monster.
Where do you come off to make a remark like that?
Who could love a man who keeps jumping through burning hoops, like a trained poodle?
Do you think J.J. likes Steve...?
Frankly, yes, to my surprise. He thinks he's very gifted  those boys'll go a big mile, he thinks.
It's given me a big lift to know that some people want me for myself, not just because I'm my brother's sister.
Chickie, I'll have to laugh at that  an attractive girl like you...!
I hope that J.J. really likes Steve, that it isn't an act.
Why should he put on an act? Your brother has told PRESIDENTS where to go and what to do!
It's not my nature, Susie, but I'll talk to you like an uncle...
But I don't need an uncle, Sidney.
Listen, get a good night's sleep  tomorrow's another day. Feeling sorry for yourself won't help.
I'm sorry about Steve, not myself. I'm even sorry for my brother. To be so lonely, without one real friend in the world  to have to hang on to a worthless rag of a girl like me because she's his only real family 
Come on now, chickie, why don't you go to bed...?
And I'm sorry for you, too, Sidney. You're going down with the ship.
What ship?
Susie, whatever problems you have with J.J.  I didn't invent them! What're you blaming me for? If you learned to let out your hatred you would be better off!
Like you?
Yeah! Like me! I don't choke on my own gall  I fight back! Let THEM choke, not me!
I'm not a man, Sidney, I'm 
I know that bit  you're a girl; you need a man to give you strength! So what do you pick such weak sisters for? Don't you know yet that you fight fire with fire, not with tear drops?
I could almost forgive you if what you did to Steve came from jealousy and love...
I didn't do anything!
...but you did it for greed, Sidney  and that's pathetic.
Don't run away  I was always the man for you! I'm talking to you out of two years of silence  listen to what I say! Inside of six months 
Please, Sidney, I can't stand this 
J.J., if you think 
Don't explain, Sidney... It doesn't matter now...
You watch him, Al, I s...s...stutter!
Temple, I caught your act the other night and 
Did you now? On which bounce?
 and I just had to drop by and tell you how great I thought you were.
Cheers. What time is it, Al?
No, I don't mind. I'm busy too.
Good! We're all off to Utica, so excuse me, Mr. Frannisonthe Portisan.
If there's a funnier man in the world than Herbie Temple at the Palace...uh...pardon us for not catching the name, we were too busy laughing. No, make that 'screaming'. It's sweet of you, J.J., thanks. Probably see you at Twenty One tonight. No, for supper, late. Right. 'Bye...
Speak to this lad, Al, ... to Mr. Falco.
See me in my office.
And it would cost a pretty penny, huh?
You tell him, I stutter!
Where's those glossy prints you promised? Tonight's the latest I can place them 
Well, thanks, anyway  let's forget it. It's cold out here, Susie.
I'm feeling too good to fight with you, but that isn't what I said  I said you snoop. For instance, what were you doing around my hotel the other night?
Begging your pardon, I haven't been down the bowery in years!
It's a habit with me. So now I'm briefed. So what?
Frank thinks I shouldn't have come here 
Why me...?
Why not you?
That's your idea of logic? I tell the Judge I didn't murder the man  the Judge says, "Why not you?"
Only two men in this town could be responsible for that smear  you or Hunsecker or both.
Dallas, ask your own manager  he's standing here like a pained wolfhound  Hunsecker and Elwell are enemies to the knife. So how do you get him doing J.J. a favor?
It is a favor, isn't it?
According to you, yeah. Dallas, your mouth is as big as a basket and twice as empty! I don't like you, comma, but neither do I go along with this column saying you smoke marijuana and belong with the Reds. Also, since we're talking repulsive, J.J. won't like this for two cents! Don't give me that look, Dallas  J.J. believes in fair play. And secondly, this could splatter his sister with rotten egg by implication  your her boyfriend!
You're talking very fast.
Well, I'll tell you what  excuse me for breathing, will ya? How do you like it? He comes to my office and 
Frank, you don't listen! J.J. just told you to shut your mouth!
Don't you think it's about time you shut yours? Who are you to tell a man like Frank D'Angelo to shut up?!
Give him creditthe boy's gall is gorgeous!
Why don't we hear what Susie has to say?
That's the third time he's called today.
He wants me to break a leg?
No, an arm, he said. I told him you were sure the item would be in Mr. Hunsecker's column in tomorrow's...
It isn't. I've just seen the early edition.
But...
But what?
That makes five days in a row that Mr. Hunsecker's cut you out of his column.
May I rent you out as an adding machine.
Who else phoned?
The renting agent and the tailor.
Pay the rent. Let the tailor wait.
It won't leave much of a balance in the bank... Mr. Robard? Could you locate him?
I wish I could help in some way, Sidney.
Help me with two minutes of silence!
Go home, Sally. It's late...
I hate to see you like this 
Yes, but as a new subscriber you're under no obligation to take more than three books. And if you mail the enclosed card within ten days 
Sidney, I know you by now. Don't do a dance with me...
You mean you don't want the extra free gift of a colorful giant map of the world???
Sidney, please, dear, if you feel nervous...
So what'll you do if I feel nervous? You'll open your meaty, sympathetic arms...?
Sid...you got me so...I don't know what...
You ought to be used to me by now.
I'm used to you...
No. You think I'm a hero. I'm no hero. I'm nice to people where it pays me to be. I gotta do it too much on the outside, so don't expect me to kowtow in my own office. I'm in a bind right now with Hunsecker so  Every dog has his day! Lock up and leave the key.
If that's for me, tear it up!
Take a top coat.
And leave a tip in every hatcheck room in town?
What's the matter?
Nothing...
Did you send my folks in Philly the check...?
Yes.
I put a lotta trust in you, Chickie...
I know you do, Sidney.
Don't judge a situation where you don't know what's involved...
I swear, Sidney, I can't help it  sometimes I wonder what I see in you...
That's no way to talk...
Or what you see in me, for that matter...
Stay down town tonight. Maybe we'll take in a show, etc.
If you want me to 
Don't you ever get messages, Eyelashes? I called you twice.
I've been up to here. Listen, honey, tell me something. You know Susan Hunsecker...? Has she been in? I mean lately, in the last coupla days...?
I don't think so.
You're sure. Find out for me.
Sidney, can I talk to you a minute?
Is Frank D'Angelo around?
At the bar  Sidney...
Don't tell me you started a polka with Leo Bartha?
No. That's what I mean  I'm being fired for what I didn't do.
Avidly. He was staring.
Staring. Consequently, when he approached me on his way out I wasn't surprised, but I didn't let on.
He was writing a special Sunday piece on...?
...cigarette girls... And naturally 
You were thrilled to be interviewed. Were you "interviewed"?
In his apartment 
And where was his wife?
I don't know  it's a big apartment. But I wasn't interviewed. In fact, I was totally unprepared for what happened.
We're old friends, Chickie  quit it! A big columnist comes in this room, without his ballandchain and you make like a delicatessen counter! What did you think would happen in his house?
But, Sidney darling, the man must be out of his mind  it was only eleven o'clock in the morning!
Do you think you could do something, Sidney?
That's what I'm thinking, Rita. Maybe...
Do you still keep your key under the mat?
Can you be there by twothirty?
Rita, say hello to Otis Elwell.
Hello.
Back?
One of those business meetings, honey  always coming up in the middle of the night.
Don't you know who that man is?
Yeah. Otis Elwell. The columnist.
Yeah!
And he's a perfect stranger to me.
So take five minutes! Get acquainted! He's an important man  he's lonely  don't be dumb!
What do you want all of a sudden  Lady Godiva...? Where's my other shoe?
What kind of an act is this?
Don't you think I have any feelings? What am I? A bowl of fruit? A tangerine that peels in a minute?
I beg your pardon! I turn myself inside out to help you and now I'm a heavy. Here's your shoe, there's your coat, that's the door!
Sidney...I...I don't do this sort of thing...
What sort of thing?
This sort of thing!
Listen, you need him for a favor, don't you! And so do I! I need his columntonight. Didn't you ask me to do something about your job? Don't you have a kid in Military School?
A girl needs a little romancing before she 
Next time I'll call in a guy to paint silver stars on the ceiling!
What would you think of me if 
Nothing I didn't think of you before.
 that's what I mean!
That's a question I usually like to ask YOU. Your secretary phoned.
What about?
Something about a Frank D'Angelo trying to reach you...
Could this be that boy?
Dallas? Could be. He doesn't look like a reefer smoker...
Bribing me again?
And why should I bribe the woman who holds most of my heart?
Who put this item in about the comic? "If there's a more hilarious funny man around than Herbie Temple at the Palace, you'll have to pardon us for not catching the name. We were too busy screaming." Does this Temple have a press agent?
No. It's one of J.J.'s occasional beau gestes. Evidently the fellow's funny, so he gave him a plug.
What's your favorite ribbon to go around your favorite chocolates?
Let's wait till Christmas  it's more legitimate then.
I know...I know you're the strongest cop in town.
I call him the boy with the ice cream face!
What's all the rush? You said three o'clock.
He's leaving early. After this "set". He'll be out in a couple of minutes...
It's nice, Sidney, that you give me this tip...
 He's got them on him.
...And he's got them on him. I appreciate a thing like that  I appreciate where you are looking out for the virtue of the city.
Is that a fact? He's a dilly, ain't he? By the by, what did he have against this boy?
He goes out with girls.
Well, I'll be darned. And what does J.J. think he SHOULD do?
Go out with DIFFERENT girls!
I thought he would.
Yeah... And another thing  he's gonna say you 'resisted arrest'... You know J.J....!
Can I come out? No.
I have to talk to you, alone, J.J., that's why.
You had something to do for me  you didn't do it.
Can I come in for a minute?
No. You're dead, son  get yourself buried!
Mac! I don't want this man at my table...
I have a message from your sister.
I know Manny Davis.
Everyone knows Manny Davis... ...except MRS. Manny Davis.
Match me, Sidney...
Not just this minute, J.J....
Why don't you answer the man, Sidalee? He's trying to take you off the hook.
You just had a good example of it. A press agent eats a columnists dirt and is expected to call it manna.
What, some cheap, gruesome gags?
You print them, don't you?
Yes, with your clients' names attached. That's the only reason those poor slobs pay you  to see their names in my column all over the world! Now, as I make it out, you're doing ME a favor!
I didn't say that, J.J.
The day that I can't get along without press agents' handouts, I'll close up shop, lock, stock and barrel and move to Alaska.
Spahish...that must show he likes "spigs", too.
I like Harry, but I can't deny he sweats a little.
You told me you'd break up that romance  when?
You want something done, J.J., but I doubt if you yourself know what's involved.
I'm a schoolboy  teach me, teach me.
Why not break it up yourself? You could do it in two minutes flat.
Frankly, J.J., I don't think you got the cards to blitz me.
I don't?
Correct me if I'm wrong, but I don't think so...
I'll listen one more minute.
Awright, that brings us up to five weeks ago. "Sidney, I got a nasty little problem here." Did I say no? I'm frank to admit  it don't jell as fast as we like... But all of a sudden I CAN'T GET YOU ON THE PHONE NO MORE! WHY?... And why, as of this date, am I frozen out of the column...
Are you finished?
No, lemme finish. I DON'T LIKE THIS JOB! That boy is dumb only on matinee days  otherwise he's got a head. And Susan, like you said, she's growing up. Two heads. What I mean, we got a slippery, dangerous problem here!
Not "we", Sidney, you!
Correct me if I'm wrong  WE! Because when I'm out on this very slippery limb for you, you have to know what's involved.
Ha! My right hand hasn't seen my left hand for thirty years!
I'll do it, J.J.  don't get me wrong  in for a penny, in for a pound. I'll see it through, but stop beating me around the head. Let me make a living!
What you promised  do it! Don't finagle around. It's later than you think.
Uh huh.
When?
Tonight. Before you go to bed. The cat is in the bag and the bag is in the river.
J.J., I want you to get them back their job, Steve and the Quintet.
You mean they've been fired already, on the basis of this crude smear?
I know Steve. No.
Then maybe you can tell me if he's as solid as you say, why does he rap me every chance he gets?
Well, what have I got? Alimony to a pair of tramps? They're of no concern to me. It's you who count, but don't get me wrong  I don't intend to let you break your neck again!
J.J., you said you want to help me  prove it!
How?
Get Steve back his job...please...
He means that much to you...?
Yes. With your "prestige" it only takes a minute  ten cents worth of American Tel and Tel.
You're picking up my lingo, hon.
I read your column every day...
Susie, I like this new attitude of yours. You're growing up and I like it! I don't like it when you're limp and dependent, when you're odd and wayward. This gives you a chance for real survival in a very lousy world. Because, don't forget, dear, you won't always have me with you, will you...?
No, I won't...
I'm not sure I can reach him in time.
Sure you can if you want to, and I know you'll want to... By the way, what's your beef against little Sidney?
I got that boy coming over here. What's so funny?
With a pocket fulla firecrackers  good.
I think you loused this up but good. If I can trust my eyes, and I think I can, Susie knows all about your dirty work.
Can't hurt...
Can't hurt? I had to get him back his job.
I like that, too. Look, J.J., we can wrap this up in one neat bundle, addressed to the dumps  to oblivion. We're going great, but please play it my way. I cased this kid. Know his ins and outs...He's fulla juice and vinegar, just begging for some big shot like you to give him a squeeze. Do little Sidney a favor: squeeze!  You know, J.J.  the porcupine bit  needles.
But it's too late. I got him back the job...
No, that's the point  he won't accept your favor! The manager yes, but not the boy.
Well he's got her in a tizzy, I'll tell you that!
Sure, he steams her up  wants her to stand on her own two feet and all that jazz!
And who's feet is she on now?
Presumably yours... That's according to St. Dallas.
What's this boy got that Susie likes?
Integrity  acute, like indigestion.
What does that mean  integrity?
A pocket fulla firecrackers  looking for a match! It's a new wrinkle to tell the truth... I never thought I'd make a killing on some guy's "integrity".
Full of beans, ain't you? But you know that you'll stand or fall by what you're doing now...
Calculated risk. Only we happen to know, J.J., that you like me. I'm your star pupil  I reflect back to you your own talent.
Let's forget cats and dogs and other pseudoliterary remarks I'll just lay it on the line! What about that big rumpus in my office today? You were there, Frank! Where, according to St. Dallas, J.J. was responsible for the Elwell smear!
Don't go wild, Sidney.
Wild? Take a look at them and see who's wild...
What are you so chipper about? If I put a cross on every one of your mistakes, you'd look like a graveyard!
But not for anything I did today...
Sidney, I know human nature. Susie lied to me  she'll see that boy again.
Are you listening?
How does it matter who's sister? The main thing, they're through and 
Why do something that would drive them right back into each other's arms? Not to mention that this time Susie would know who shot the arrow...
She knows now.
Why give her real proof? You nearly ruined her with her first husband  and you were right, J.J.,  but she almost followed him out the window. What do you want  a chronic invalid?
J.J., it's one thing to wear your dog collar...but when it gets to be a noose...I'd rather have my freedom.
The man in jail is always for freedom.
Sidney, I told you 
J.J., I swear to you on my mother's life, I won't do it. If you gave me your COLUMN I wouldn't do a thing like that...
I was trying to build her up, not tear her down 
Is that why you were romancing her, you mutt! Let's call it quits, my dear. I'd like it fine if you found another home. That means the front door is open! Pack your things, rent a moving van and GIT! And as for marriage, let me hit you with a few choice facts: you aren't ready for marriage! You're incompetent  a capricious and shaky frail with a sick fatality for frail and useless men!
Talk to her, Sidney...
Talk to her yourself...
Listen with care  this will cost me everything, so you know I'm telling you the truth!
You're incapable of the truth...
Susie, there's nothing wrong with Dallas! Your brother and I arranged it all. And if the Leslie boy is still a squooshy item in your life, forget it!  your brother arranged that one, too! I don't usually give away presents; but this is my gift to you: Get out of here! Leave this man!
Hello, Harry.
Bonna sera, commendatore. Come sta?
I just checked "downtown". Quiet everywhere tonight.
Incidentally, what happened to that doll?  You gave me the item last night. Still alive?
Yeah. At Bellevue. Still hanging on. But they still don't know if she was pushed.
She mighta jumped. Love suicide? Check it for me, Phil...it's a real heart throb.
Say hello to Sidney Falco. Tickle him  he's been a bad boy tonight. He called you my fat friend.
I don't believe it.
Say, that's good  it's nice  in fact, it's APT, Harry!
Yeah, I got eyes. I put things together.
I remember ONCE when you didn't quite "put things together". Boy! Was the Mayor mad!
Err...the Supreme Court story, I was telling you  Justice Black.
Yes, the Justice, that's right. But I think you had it in the column.
And I believe that's precisely where I read it, too. You see, J.J., where I get my reputation for being the bestinformed man in Washington.
Now don't kid a kidder.
Now, come, J.J., that's a little too harsh. Anyone seems fair game for you tonight.
This man is not for you, Harvey, and you shouldn't be seen with him in public. Because that's another part of a press agents life  he digs up scandal among prominent men and shovels it thin among the columnists who give him space.
There is some allusion here that escapes me...
We're friends, Harvey  we go as far back as when you were a fresh kid Congressman, don't we?
Why does everything you say sound like a threat?
Susie, you're very much in my thoughts today.
Why?
What a question, dear, with that newspaper in your hand...
Did Sidney tell you about it?
Yes, he phoned. I don't know this boy too well. Anything in these charges?
Not being partial, are you?
No, I'm not. I'm not!
Why are you trembling, dear...?
History repeats itself. Everything that happened to Alan Leslie...began with a smear like this...
It's just as if I've seen a ghost today...
But that wasn't your fault, dear, what happened to Leslie. I've told you that a million times...
Then whose fault was it, J.J.? It was someone's fault, wasn't it?
I wouldn't have called the boy exactly balanced...
Alan was not...unbalanced when I married him. And he was not...'indifferent to women' no matter what they said! HUNSECKER I'm not fighting with you, puss...
Sidney is a liar!
Who said Sidney?
I said Sidney!...
You know, dear, we're drifting apart, you and I, and I don't like that.
I thought we were talking about Sidney?
Let me finish, dear. You had your say, now let me have mine...
I haven't said anything yet, J.J., but if 
I started to say we're drifting apart. A year ago, in your wildest dreams, would you have walked by that door without taking up this situation with me? Today I had to call you in!
I'm taking up the situation with you now...
Susie, I want to help you, there's nothing I won't do for you. You're all I've got in the whole, wide world.
When I'm certain, I'll let you know...
A man couldn't ask for a squarer shake. Let me have Billy Van Cleve... Don't ever tell anyone, Susie, how I'm tied to your apron strings... Billy! J.J.! What's this about that boy? What boy? Where are we, lug, in a drawing room comedy? You're brain is warming up, sweetheart  yeah, Dallas!... No, don't explain your point of view, but...
Susie likes to keep her girlish secrets. But in her heart of hearts I imagine, Dallas, that she fancies you in an uncommon way. Now, what about YOU, son? Not just tomcatting around...I hope?
J.J., Steve isn't...
Susie, did you know about this accusation...?
No...
Before you leave, son, I'll answer your questionSusan Hunsecker is the injured party here! Or will I be hearing next that I don't even have my sister's welfare at heart...
Susie, I'm sorry if
Sometimes I think ALL men are fools!...
You in a mood, Susie, to run over to Milgrim's later and buy a few new frocks?
No. I'm going home.
No! NO! Don't touch me!
Susan!...
Well, son, looks like you went out and bought yourself a packet of trouble...
You've been very kind about it, Mr. Hunsecker. HUNSECKER Give Susie credit for that. I took her word that there was nothing to the smear. Matter of fact, I'll have my say about smears on the show today. That's why I'd like YOUR personal assurance, too.
Mr. Hunsecker, there's nothing to that smear. You have my sincere word...
I'll by that, son. Now, you owe ME a favor. Be good to my kid sister...
Take it easy, Susie. He wouldn't be much of a man if he didn't understand my concern. Would you, son?
No, I wouldn't...
Serious as a deacon...I like it. I like your style, son! In a world of old rags and bones, I like it! For instance, take Sidney.
Does he have to be here in our hair?
Why, has he bothered you before?
Is it news to you?
Son, lots of people tell me I'm a gifted man, but I still can't see around corners.
Just exactly what are you so hot about? I mean, I know it's a difficult thing to be an artist in this crudest of possible worlds, but 
Nuts! I'm not here as an artist! I'm here as an average Joe, who happens to love your sister Susie!
Well, just be careful you don't knock her down, huh?
Frankly, son, you lost me on that last hill. Just give us the punch line...
No punch line. Maybe I was just admiring your knowhowyours and Falco's.
Why do you keep coupling me with Falco?
He's here, isn't he? Do you think, sir, when he dies he'll go to the dog and cat heaven?
I don't take kindly to you and Falco selling me ethics. Who's the injured party here, you?
Right now you're in no position to ask questions! And your snide remarks
Wait a minute, I haven't handed over punishing privileges to you YET! Put the whip down and I might respect what you're saying...
Mr. Hunsecker, you've got more twists than a barrel of pretzels.
You hear that, Susie... Continue please...
I'm afraid I can't cope with them.
Susie, as always, is free to say anything she thinks. Go on, dear, say exactly what's on your mind, dear.
Those "dears" sound like daggers. May I suggest that you stop DARING her to speak?
May I lift my eyebrows? What is this? What are you trying to do?
I'm trying to get Susie to stand up to you. But your manner is so threatening that she's afraid to speak!
Son, you raise your voice again and you'll be outa here on your golden pratt!
If looks could kill, I'm dead...
No, I don't care about you  you're fantastic. My whole interest, if it's not too late, is in Susie...and how to undo what you've done to her...
And what have I done to her, besides not buy her a new fur coat lately? Sidney, you were right  the boy's a dilly.
Why? Because I don't like the way you toy with human lives?  Your contempt and malice? Because I won't be the accomplice of your sick ego  and the way it's crippled Susie...? You think of yourself  you and your column  you see yourself as a national glory...but to me, and thousands of others like me, you and your slimy scandal, your phony patriotics  to me, Mr. Hunsecker, you are a national disgrace!
Son, I don't fancy shooting mosquitoes with elephant guns. So suppose you just shuffle along and call it a day...
But my day with Susie isn't over yet and
Ten'll get you fifty you're playing hookey from a padded cell!
I see Bartha gave you cold tongue for supper. Hey, wait a minute!
I'm late for a date with a dame.
How is dear old J.J. by the way?
Call him up and ask  he might drop dead with shock.
If it were that easy, you wouldn't find an empty phone booth for the next two hours...
You don't know that lunatic yet? Whims  egotistic whims! Like the gag  when you got him for a friend, you don't need an enemy! That's what the fight with Bartha was about. "Leo", I says, "Hunsecker froze me out. So I'm eating humble pie this month  please print me an item."
And, instead, he printed his heel in your face?
I see you're full of human feelings...
Friends call me Otis  sometimes Tricky Otis.
Otis was outraged when I told him Van Cleve was going to fire you. Tell him not to pay any attention to anything youknowwho says about youknowwhat. Right, Otis?
Right!
I hate J.J.  but not that much at this moment...
Give me a chance 
Blessings on thee, the both...well... Gotta run now. See you two kids later!
Hurry back.
Joe, give my nephew a drink.
Your nephew doesn't want a drink.
That's a lollipop that, boy. The kid is only great.
And with ten percent of his future, you're great, too, Frank.
Went over to Philly yesterday an' seen the folks...it's nice you send them the fifty a month...
See my mother?
I only had a few hours.
Thanks for the publicity spread you got the boys for the benefit tomorrow.
Robard's my client. I did it for him and his club, not your boys.
Frank, I think maybe you lied to me.
Looka, Sidney, you're my own sister's son, but where does that give you the right to call me a liar?
You told me that your boy was washed up with Susie Hunsecker, didn't you?
Yeah, and it's the truth, to the best of my knowledge. And, frankly, I'm glad. For Steve's sake, I'm glad, not yours. I manage these boys and I got their best interests at heart. Steve shouldn't get mixed up with no bimbo at his age.
You told him that?
Not in those exact words  you know what a temper he's got.
When do these hotheaded boys of yours go on the road?
Coupla weeks. For eight weeks.
That's a nice tour. All booked? When was Susie around here last?
Four five nights ago. That's how I know the romance is off. Also Steve's in a very bad mood.
Listen, Frank, you'd better make sure you're telling me the truth.
I don't like this threatening attitude. When it comes to it, what the heck is it your business what they do, this boy and girl...
...People catch on quick to such an item. Van Cleve already called me  he's firing the quintet.
Then what are you doing here? Go over there and fight! If Van Cleve fires your boy, it gives a lie the ring of truth!
Come on boys, break it up...
The next time you want information, Falco, don't scratch for it like a dog  ask for it like a man!
Did she accept?
You don't like it, do you. I think she will accept, but I'm not sure. She may be too dependent on her brother.
Excuse me, Steve. I said namely you shouldn't go around wild, blaming people without justification.
I thought you might have a faint idea of how this item originated.
Boys, this gets nobody nowhere  you're over excited, Steve and 
Don't apologize for me, Frank!
...excited with good reason, I wanted to say. Because this endangers the future of the whole quintet...
I want to speak to Miss Hunsecker, please.
We're on our way there now...
I still think he's responsible for the smear.
Not that I'm convinced, but you'll never prove it in a million years. Steve, you'll do what you want, but it can't hurt; he offers you an olive branch  so today like olives!
I guess you're right, but 
I could think of better places to meet her, instead of here. He lives on the whole top floor.
I doubt that it matters any more.
How are you tonight, Mr. Falco?
Is "he" inside?
But of course...
Alone or surrounded?
A Senator, an Agent and Something  With  Long  Red  Hair.
Hello, Sidney. Wanna table?
Just hopping tonight. Leo Bartha been in?
Yeah, having supper with the Mrs. She's over there.
He's somewhere...
Thanks, I see him...
Loretta...Sidney Falco...
How do you do, Mr. Falco. If you know anything about horses, sit a minute. Help yourself to a glass of this N.Y. State champagne  that's what my husband buys me.
You ought to stop this nonsense, Loretta, these two dollar bets.
It's compensation, Leo, for the marginal life we lead. Sidney, did you hear the story about the cloakandsuitor who  ?
That's right! Tell him, so I can read it in Hunsecker's column first!
Oh, are you a spy for the other side?
Will you mind your own business!
Hitler!
Where are we running? What am I missing here?
Waiter, the check. This man is trying to hold a gun to my head!
That's the horse! Shotgun  Shotgun in the fifth!
Well, there's the Hamiltons. Joe and Shelly Hamilton.
Yeah, right.
That sonofabitch owes thousands to the bank and half the businesses in town. He's about to lose his house and car.
But Charlene...
Charlene's over at the Spread Eagle every other night. Sleeps with whatever she can get her hands on. She'll go down for a pat on the head and a fistful of peanuts.
Don't even think of the Bilodeaus or the Atwaters. They're all inbred.
The Ottos.
Yeah, well, they probably smoke weed.
You don't know that.
That was great.
Really?
You're going to blow everyone away.
You mean it?
Of course.
You don't sound like one hundred percent absolutely sure.
I am. Really. It was awesome.
What's so funny?
Just the way Dolores gets so excited about bringing the kids to check out the animals. It's like the biggest thing in her life.
What took so long?
Nothing.
What's that?
Mrs. Ansel's clothing.
Does it fit?
They say I'm lucky because I can't remember the accident.
Don't even try to remember.
How do you like it, Nicole?
The ramp?
Pretty slick, eh?
Very slick.
Do you like the colour?
It's okay.
And I had to widen a few doors. You'll see.
The door needs a lock.
Sure. I'll fix it right away.
That's too high. I'll never reach it.
Oh. I better get some spackle.
He's a lawyer. He's our lawyer.
You and Mom have a lawyer?
Well, yes. He's your lawyer too.
My lawyer? Why do I need a lawyer?
It's because of the accident, Nicole. Most people in this town whose kids were on the bus have got lawyers. A lot of people...well, people in this town are very angry. Us included.
But you didn't lose me.
You're going to need special care for a long time to come. It's not going to be easy. Not for you, not for any of us. Because we love you so much. And it's going to cost money. More than we can imagine.
What about insurance? Doesn't insurance pay for these things?
Partly. But there's a lot the insurance doesn't cover. That's one of the reasons we have a lawyer. To make sure the insurance gets paid and to help us look after the rest.
How will he do that?
Well, Mr. Stephens is representing several families. The Ottos, the Walkers, us, and I think a couple more. Mr. Stephens is suing the town for negligence. He's sure that the accident could have been avoided if they had done their jobs right. He's a very smart man.
What are you up to, Nicole?
Nothing.
Nothing good on your T.V.?
As opposed to this T.V.?
Are you sleeping?
No.
Nicole, tomorrow Mr. Stephens wants you to make your deposition at the courthouse. I thought I'd take you over.
Great.
You seem...I don't know...well, distant, I guess. Hard to talk to.
What do you mean?
I mean I'm a wheelchair girl now. It's hard to pretend I'm a beautiful rock star. Not like you used to tell me. Remember, Daddy? All the people that were going to discover me? Where are they now?
He couldn't look at me. But I looked at him. Right at him. His secret was mine now. We used to share it. But not anymore. Now, I owned it completely.
Well, okay. I'll take you about ninethirty in the morning. That's okay with you?
Great.
Yes.
How about Sunday night? That's always the best time.
Okay.
What's going to happen to Dolores?
I don't know.
Will the police do anything to her?
It's too late for that. She can't drive the bus anymore. The school board saw to that right off.
She'll move away.
There's talk of that.
Someplace where no one knows her. Someplace strange and new.
Now on that morning, did there come a time, Nicole, when you left your parents' house?
Yes.
What time in the morning was this?
About eightthirty in the morning.
Was anyone waiting for the bus with you?
No. I was alone. My sister Jenny was sick and stayed home that day.
Was there anything unusual about the driver, Dolores Driscoll, or the bus that particular morning?
Like what? I mean, I don't remember a lot.
Yes.
And where did you sit that morning?
My usual place. On the right side. The first seat.
And according to your recollection, there was nothing unusual about the drive that morning?
Until the accident? No. Yes, there was.
No.
Did there come a time when all the children had been picked up?
Yes.
You remember that much?
As I'm talking, I'm remembering more about it.
Yes.
There was a brown dog that ran across the road up there, right by the dump, and Dolores slowed down not to hit him, and he ran into the woods. And then Dolores drove on and turned onto the Marlowe road, as usual. I remember that. I'm remembering it pretty clearly.
You are?
Yes.
I will offer that report. Well, then, now that your memory seems to be clearing, can you tell us what else you observed at that time?
Before the actual accident?
Yes.
I was scared.
Why were you scared?
This is before the accident, Nicole. Do you understand what I'm asking?
Yes, I understand.
Why were you scared?
Dolores was driving too fast.
Mrs. Driscoll was driving too fast? What made you think that, Nicole?
The speedometer. And it was downhill there.
You could see the speedometer?
Yes. I looked. I remember clearly now. It seemed we were going too fast down the hill. I was scared.
How fast would you say Mrs. Driscoll was going? To the best of your recollection?
Seventytwo miles an hour.
Seventytwo miles an hour? You're sure of this?
Positive.
You believe that the bus driven by Mrs. Driscoll was going at seventy two miles an hour at this time?
I told you I was positive. The speedometer was large and easy to see from where I was.
You saw the speedometer?
Yes.
Did you say anything to Mrs. Driscoll?
No.
Why not?
I was scared. And there wasn't time.
There wasn't time?
No. Because the bus went off the road. And crashed.
You remember this?
Yes. I do now. Now that I'm telling it.
What do you remember about the accident?
I remember the bus swerved, it just suddenly swerved to the right, and it hit the guardrail and the snowbank on the side of the road, and then it went over the embankment there, and everyone was screaming and everything. And that's all. I guess I was unconscious after that. That's all. Then I was in the hospital.
Are you a reporter?
No.
Kyle Lambston's a drunk. Nobody likes him. He's a nasty piece of work.
In what way?
Been drinking since high school. Fucked himself up. Used to be smart enough.
Any criminal record?
Probably half a dozen traffic convictions. Drunk driving. Lost his licence. That's why he don't work no more.
Can't get off that shitty dump they live on. What little money comes in goes to booze.
How does the family survive?
Don't know. Food banks, welfare, church charity. They scrape by.
I'm sorry for coming over unannounced like this, Mrs. Otto, but the Walkers said you would understand. I know it's an awful time, but it's important that we talk.
Who are you?
I'm a lawyer.
You can't come here.
Please, let me explain. I'll only take a moment of your time.
No.
Please.
The Walkers spoke very highly of you.
You've been retained?
Yes.
Their child died, and they got a lawyer.
It should be said that my task is to represent the Walkers only in their anger. Not their grief.
Who did they get for that?
You are angry, aren't you, Mrs. Otto? That's why I'm here. To give your anger a voice. To be your
Dolores?
It's my belief that Dolores was doing exactly what she'd been doing for years. Besides, the school board's insurance on Dolores is minimal. A few million at the very most. The really deep pockets are to be found in the town, or in the company that made the bus.
You think someone else caused the accident?
Mrs. Otto, there is no such thing as an accident. The word doesn't mean anything to me. As far as I'm concerned, somebody somewhere made a decision to cut a corner. Some corrupt agency or corporation accounted the cost variance between a tencent bolt and a million dollar outofcourt settlement. They decided to sacrifice a few lives for the difference. That's what's done, Mrs. Otto. I've seen it happen so many times before.
So you're just the thing we need.
Excuse me?
Isn't that what you want us to believe? That we're completely defenseless? That you know what's best?
Listen to me, Mrs Otto. Listen very carefully. I do know what's best.
Are you expensive?
No.
If you agree to have me represent you in this suit, I will require no payment until after the case is won, when I will require one third of the awarded amount. If there is no award made, then my services will cost you nothing. It's a standard agreement.
Do you have this agreement with you?
Some more wine?
I'm afraid this meat is overdone.
I'm sorry about that, Mr. Stephens. Would you like to try the fish?
What is it?
Poached salmon.
We do.
Is there shrimp on it?
Yes.
If you could pick the shrimp off, as well as anything that touches the shrimp...
I'm not sure if that will leave much on the plate.
Well, let's see what we get.
I'm in a car wash.
A car wash! Wow, I've never talked to you when you've been in a car wash. Make sure you've got the windows closed.
Remember that time we were having the car washed and I started playing with the automatic window? How old was I, Daddy? Five or six? I got absolutely soaked, remember?
Why are you calling me, Zoe?
Why am I calling you? You're my father. I'm not supposed to call you? What's the matter with wanting to talk to you, Daddy?
Nothing's wrong with trying to talk to me, Zoe.
So what's the problem?
The problem is I have no idea who I'm talking to right now.
'Cause you think I'm stoned, Daddy? 'Cause you think I've got a needle stuck in my arm? Is that what you're thinking, Daddy?
DADDY!!!
Yes.
Why can't you talk to me?
I...I just need to know what state you're in so I know...how to talk to you...how to act...
Yes, I'll accept the charges.
Daddy?
Yes.
I'm calling because I've got some news for you, Daddy. Some big news.
News?
Don't you want to hear?
Yes. Give me your news, Zoe.
You always think you know what I'm going to say, don't you? You always think you're two steps ahead of me. The lawyer.
Tell me your news, Zoe.
Okay. I went to sell blood yesterday. That's how it is. I'm in this fucking city where my father is a hot shit lawyer, and I'm selling my blood.
That's not news, Zoe.
No. But this is. They wouldn't take my blood.
Do you know what that means, Daddy? Does it register?
Yes.
I tested positive.
Yes.
Welcome to hard times, Daddy.
What do you want me to do, Zoe? I'll do whatever you want.
I need money.
What for?
You can't ask me that! Not anymore! You asked me what I wanted. Not what I wanted it for. I want money.
Do you have the blood test?
You don't believe me? You don't fucking believe me?
Of...course I do. I just thought...I could get you another
I can hear you breathing, Daddy.
Yes. I can hear you breathing too.
Oh God, I'm scared.
I love you, Zoe. I'll be there soon, and I'll take care of you. No matter what happens. I'll take care of you.
Need a hand?
Sure, it you could find a towel in this bag. I know my wife packed one in there...
You always think you're prepared for these things.
Tell me about it.
How old is she?
Almost three.
Is this it?
Perfect.
Here we go.
Thanks.
Do you have a room?
Will you be spending more than a night?
Hard to say. I might have...some business here.
What about Doreen?
She...she was a friend of mine.
When?
At school. She fell for Kyle just before we graduated. Got pregnant, and...went to live in a trailer up on a woodlot Kyle's dad used to own. Kyle started spending more and more time at the Spread Eagle...
That's the local bar?
...coming home drunk and I guess feeling trapped by his life and blaming her for that...and...
What do you mean?
People who will help our cause.
That's great, Wendell. That's the sort of thing I need to know. So it doesn't come back to haunt our case later on.
There's the Prescots...
Tell me about the Ottos.
Wanda and Hartley. They lost Bear. He was their adopted son. A beautiful boy. Indian.
Indian?
Yes.
That's good. Judges like adopted Indian boys. Tell me more about the Ottos.
They're smart. Been to college. They moved here from the city about a dozen years ago.
What do they do?
Crafts.
Crafts?
Wanda does these photographic things. That's one of her pictures on the wall.
Have they ever been busted?
No.
I object to the form of that question. Note that.
Was the bus on time?
There was nothing reckless in Mrs. Driscoll's behavior?
I object to that form of question. Note that.
Note my objection. She said, 'As I'm talking.'
Did there come a time when the bus turned off Staples Mill Road onto
Note that she said 'pretty clearly'. Not 'clearly'.
And what was the weather like at this time?
I have no questions.
Thank you, Nicole.
I don't like thinking about the accident. I don't even remember it happening. Besides, it just makes people feel sorry for me, and...
You hate that.
You can only feel lucky that you didn't die for so long. Then you start to feel...unlucky.
That you didn't die? Like the other children?
Yes. Like Bear and the Ansel twins and Sean and...
It would be strange if you didn't feel that way.
What do you want me to do for you, Mr. Stephens?
They work for the people we're trying to sue. Their job is to try to minimize damages. Our job, Nicole, is to try to maximize them. You have to think of it that way. As people doing their jobs. No good guys or bad guys. Just our side and their side.
I won't lie.
I don't want you to lie.
The truth is that it was an accident, and no one's to blame.
There's no such thing as an accident, Nicole. Not in a situation like this.
You seem very sure about that.
I'm absolutely positive.
Dolores.
Yes. Dolores...and even your mom and dad. But I'll make sure you go last.
Why?
So you can keep on getting well before you have to go and do this. It's not going to be easy, Nicole. Do you understand that?
It was snowing.
Unless the report from the National Weather Bureau for the district on January 23 goes into the record, I will object to that question.
The Pied Piper of Hamelin. By famous Hanover city; The river Weser, deep and wide, Washes its wall on the southern side; A pleasanter spot you never spied; But, when begins my ditty...
What's a ditty again?
It's like a song.
Oh.
What's vermin again?
Rats! They fought the dogs and killed the cats, And bit the babies in the cradles, And ate the cheeses out of vats. And licked the soup from the cook's own ladles, Split open the kegs of salted sprats, Made nests inside men's Sunday hats, And even spoiled the women's chats, By drowning their speaking With shrieking and squeaking In fifty different sharps and flats...
Nicole?
Yes.
Can I sit beside you on the bus tomorrow?
Don't you usually like to sit at the back? To wave at your Dad?
I want to sit beside you tomorrow.
Okay.
Nicole?
What, Mason?
That's right.
Well, if he knew magic  if he could get the kids into the mountain  why couldn't he use his pipe to make the people pay him for getting rid of the rats?
Because...he wanted to them to be punished.
The people in the town?
Yes.
So he was mean?
No. Not mean. Just...very angry.
Oh.
Should I keep reading?
Okay.
That was Billy Ansel on the phone. He wants to come over to talk to us.
Did he say what about?
No.
Was he drinking? Could you tell?
Jenny, it's time for you to go to bed.
Is he coming over now? Right away?
That's what he said.
Hey, Billy! What brings you out on a night like this? C'mon in. Take a load off.
Would you like a cup of tea, Billy? There's a piece of cake left.
He thought it was cute when I called him Frankenstein. It wasn't. I feel like his monster.
Isn't it a lovely day?
What happened to summer?
Summer's over. It's fall.
And winter?
Well, winter's far behind us now.
How was it?
We had a terrible winter last year, didn't we, Sam?
So do you like your new room?
It's interesting.
Your Dad spent all his spare time in here. He wanted to make it absolutely perfect.
I feel like a princess.
Is this mine?
Yes. It's a present.
From you?
No. From Mr. Stephens. That was him on the phone just now. He was calling to see how you were.
Who's Mr. Stephens?
Maybe we shouldn't be talking about this just now, with you barely home. Aren't you hungry, honey? Want me to fix you something?
No. What's this lawyer business?
Nicole!
It's the truth.
You want a cup of tea or something?
A cup of tea would be nice. Would it be alright if I sit down for a few minutes, Mrs. Otto? I want to talk to you.
But Dolores said she saw a dog and tried to...
How long has Dolores been driving that bus, Mr. Otto? How many times has she steered clear of danger? What went wrong that morning?
I didn't ask if you wanted milk.
No. A little sugar though.
We've only got honey.
I'll...take it straight.
Good morning, Wanda. Hi, Hartley.
Hi, Dolores.
What do you think?
Well, it's certainly what you'd call interesting.
You hate it.
I didn't say that.
I could wrap it up. Protect the other kids.
I'll just strap it on the roof.
It's for the school bazaar.
Oh, it's bizarre alright. C'mon Bear. Let's get you out of here.
Away from your crazy Mom.
The Ottos always waited for the bus with Bear. They were the only parents who did that, together like that. I guess they're what you might call hippies.
Dolores. No one calls me 'Mrs. Driscoll'.
What do you mean by that, Dolores?
About the Ottos?
Yes. What do you mean by 'hippies'?
I mean, the way they look. Their hair and clothing...
Do they have any reputation for drugs?
No, nothing like that. The Ottos are what I'd call model citizens. They're regular at town meetings. They give their opinions in a respectful way. They always help out at various fundraising bazaars in town , though they aren't church goers.
And they loved Bear.
Oh yes. Like I said, they always came out together to see him off to school. It's like he was their little treasure. He was such a beautiful boy. That's a picture of him on the wall there, behind Abbott.
Those are all from the fair last year. Abbott and me were judges at the pet show.
For rabbits?
DOLORES +++$+++
Billy loved to see his kids in the bus. They always sat in the back, so they could wave to each other. It comforted him.
From what?
From what?
Did he have any particular problems that you knew of? Financial pressures...runins with the law...
No, nothing like that. Billy's wife, Lydia, died of cancer a few years ago. He took over raising the children by himself. It was obvious how much he missed Lydia.
You talked about it?
No. I saw it on his face.
That's the way I thought of them sometimes.
Berries.
Yes. Like I was putting them into my big basket. Clearing the hillside of its children.
Abbott and I used to do a lot of that in the spring.
Berrypicking.
Yes. The oldfashioned way.
And what's that?
With our hands.
A strange little fellow, but you couldn't help liking him. He was close to ten but seemed more like a frightened five or six.
Were his parents...attentive to him?
What do you mean?
You mentioned that he had a learning disability.
That's right.
Did his parents attend to that?
What do you mean?
Did they give him special care?
The Walkers loved Sean. He was their only child...the object of all their attention. I mean, Wendell's a withdrawn sort of man. That's his nature. But Risa, she's still got dreams.
I have a question for you, Mr. Stephens.
What's that, Dolores?
I told you that I was doing fifty miles an hour when the accident happened. That's how I remembered it. But the truth is, I might have been doing sixty. Or sixty five. And if that's true, that I was over the limit when the bus went over, what would happen then?
That would complicate things.
Because I'd be to blame, right?
Billy Ansel will insist that you were driving fiftyone miles an hour. Just like you've done every morning for the past fifteen years.
He knows that? Billy?
Yes. He does.
Billy said that?
You've talked to Billy?
I did.
And Billy told you that he'll tell that to...
Mrs. Driscoll, if Billy Ansel does not volunteer to say so in court, I will subpoena him and oblige him to testify to that effect.
It's clear to me and other people that you have suffered significantly from this event.
What other people?
Excuse me?
Who's been talking to you about what I'm feeling? Who should care about what I'm feeling?
You heard what Abbott said?
Yes.
Anything you didn't understand?
There might have been a word or two that slipped by. Maybe you could clarify it for me, just to be absolutely sure.
That's what he said, is it?
Yes. Abbot understands these things.
He never took his eyes off his mother, even as he moved to sit beside Nicole. He looked frightened.
Why would he be frightened?
I don't know. But it was weird in terms of what happened next. Sean was still watching his mother.
Nicole's coming over to look after the kids tonight. She'll be there around six.
Billy, that's too early.
She said she's got to be home by nine.
Can't you make it later?
Have you been waiting long?
A while.
Billy, do you have to smoke? Wendell can smell if someone's been smoking.
Does this mean I can't take a shower?
No. It should be dry by now.
What time's he coming home?
When the game's over, I guess.
What are you thinking?
Tomorrow I'm going to put Sean on the bus. He won't want to go. He never does. He'll cry and want to hold on to me.
That's because he misses you.
Yes.
It's natural.
Your kids never cry.
Well, maybe that's because they know I'm going to follow them. Behind the bus.
They can look forward to that.
Sure.
Just like we look forward to this.
You're leaving.
I better get back.
Good night, Billy.
Good night.
I stopped by the station a while ago. I stared at the bus. I could almost hear the kids inside. There was a lawyer there. He told me he'd gotten you signed up. Is that true?
Something made this happen, Billy. Mr. Stephens is going to find out what it was.
Mr. Stephens says that someone didn't put a right bolt in the bus...
Risa, I serviced that bus. At the garage. There's nothing wrong with it.
...or that the guardrail wasn't strong enough.
You believe that?
I have to.
Why?
Because I have to.
Well I don't.
Is it true that you gave Nicole one of Lydia's dresses? That she was wearing it when the bus crashed?
Yes.
Why did you do that, Billy?
You think that caused the accident, Risa? That it brought bad luck? Christ, it sounds to me you're looking for a witch doctor, not a lawyer. Or maybe they're the same thing.
So what brings you out tonight?
Well, Sam, I might as well tell you the truth. It's this lawsuit you've gotten yourself all involved with. I want you to drop the damned thing.
I don't see how that concerns you, Billy.
It does concern me.
Well, I don't know why it should. There's a whole lot of people in town involved with lawsuits. We're hardly unique here, Billy. I mean, I can understand how you feel.
How?
Well, it being so depressing and all. But it's reality. You can't just turn this off because you happen to think it's a bad idea.
Why not?
Because it's what we have to do.
Well I don't want a damned thing to do with it.
Okay, fine. So...stay out of it.
I've tried to stay out of it. But it turns out that's not so easy, Sam. You've gone and got yourself this lawyer. Mitchell Stephens. You and Risa and Wendell and the Ottos.
So? I mean, lot's of folks have got lawyers.
But yours is the one who's going to subpoena me, Sam. Force me to testify in court. He came by the garage this afternoon. Gave me this piece of paper.
If that bastard does subpoena me, if he forces me to go over this again, then all those other lawyers will line up behind him and try and do the same thing.
That won't happen, Billy. Mitch Stephens' case is small, compared to some of those other guys. The way he told me, all he needs is for you to say what you saw that day, driving behind the bus. I know it's a painful thing to do, but it'll only take a few minutes of your time. That'll be the end of it.
That's wrong, Sam. You know that. We'll be tangled up in this thing for the next five years. This is never going to go away...
C'mon, you know that won't...
We've got lawyers suing lawyers because some people were stupid enough to sign on with more than one of the bastards. We've got people pointing fingers, making side deals, and dickering over percentages. Yesterday, I heard somebody wants to sue the rescue squad. The rescue squad. Because they didn't act fast enough.
No, Billy. We can't drop the lawsuit. You know how much we need the money.
Why? You got money from Dolores' insurance with the school board. We all did.
It's not enough. For hospital bills. For Nicole.
I'll help pay for Nicole, if that's what you're really talking about. I'll even give you the money I got for my kids. That's what we used to do, remember? Help each other. This was a community.
I'm sorry.
Why would he do that? You didn't have anything to do with the accident.
Because I was driving behind the bus, Mary. Because I saw it. I saw it happen...
I used to like it here. I used to care about what happened. Now I think I'll sell my house and move the fuck away.
Billy, please. The children.
The children.
How is Nicole? Is she around?
She's resting. In her room.
Say hello for me.
Hi, Nicole.
Hi, Mr. Ansel. Hi, Jessica, Mason...
They just finished supper.
Was it good?
I'll be back around nine.
Okay.
Are you sure?
Yeah.
It just seems...kind of weird.
Why?
I don't know.
Nicole, I'm just going to pack all this stuff and give it to the church for charity. Don't feel bad. Unless you feel strange about wearing it.
No. I mean, I remember Mrs. Ansel wearing some of this stuff, but...I don't feel funny about that. I really liked her.
And she really liked you. She would've given you all this if she'd outgrown it, or...
What do you mean 'outgrown it'?
I'm not sure.
Oh. Right.
Goodnight, Mr. Ansel.
Goodnight, Nicole.
My name is...
Mister, I don't want to know your name.
I understand.
No you don't.
I can help you.
Not unless you can raise the dead.
Mr. Mitchell Stephens, Esquire, would you be likely to sue me if I was to beat you right now? Beat you so bad that you pissed blood and couldn't walk for a month. Because that's what I'm about to do.
No, Mr. Ansel. I wouldn't sue you.
Leave us alone, Stephens. Leave the people of this town alone. You can't help.
You can help each other. Several people have agreed to let me represent them in a negligence suit. Your case as an individual will be stronger if I'm allowed to represent you together as a group.
Case?
The Walkers have agreed. The Ottos. Nicole Burnell's parents. It's important to initiate proceedings right away. Things get covered up. People lie. That's why we have to begin our investigation quickly. Before the evidence disappears. That's why I'm out here tonight.
I know Risa and Wendell Walker. They wouldn't hire a goddamned lawyer. And the Ottos wouldn't deal
That's my daughter. Or it may be the police to tell me that they've found her dead. She's a drug addict.
Why are you telling me this?
I'm telling you this because... we've all lost our children, Mr. Ansel.
That's my daughter. Or it may be the police to tell me that they've found her dead. She's a drug addict.
Why are you telling me this?
I'm telling you this because we've all lost our children, Mr. Ansel...
Yes, we do know each other. I'm Alison Jones.
Alison Jones.
Yes.
Ally. That was my nickname.
Ally. That's right.
How are you?
I'm just fine, Ally. What about you?
I'm fine. Still working with my father.
And what does he do again?
He used to work with you. Until you found out he was having an affair with your wife.
Ally Jones.
How is Mrs. Stephens?
We're...not together.
I'd heard that. But she's well?
Yes...fine.
And Zoe? How's Zoe?
I'm glad to hear that Zoe's okay.
Are you still in touch?
Not really. The last time I saw her was at that clinic. That was a long time ago.
Which one?
Which one?
Which clinic?
I don't remember the name. It was near a beach.
Sunnyridge. That was a long time
So there were others?
Other clinics? Oh sure. Clinics, halfway houses, treatment centers, detox units...
Then...when did she get better?
She didn't.
But you said...
That's where I'm going. To see her.
She's in trouble?
Yes. Do you find there's something strange about this meat?
What...does it turn to?
It turns to steaming piss.
I'm...so sorry.
That's okay.
I...don't think so.
I woke to the sound of Zoe's breathing. It was laboured. I looked over and noticed she was sweating and all swollen. I grabbed her, rushed to the kitchen, and splashed water on her face.
What happened?
I didn't know. I was in a panic. I guessed she'd been bitten by an insect, but there was no doctor. The nearest hospital was forty miles away, and Zoe was continuing to swell. Klara took her in her arms and tried to breastfeed her, while I dialed the hospital. I finally got a doctor on the line. He sounded young, but cool. He was confident, but there was a nervousness. He have been an intern. This was the first time he ever had to deal with anything like this. He wanted to seem like he knew what he was doing, but he was just as scared as I was.
What happened?
Nothing. We made it to the hospital. I didn't have to go as far as I was prepared to. But I was prepared to go all the way.
Well, it was nice meeting you again, Mr. Stephens.
Mitchell. It was nice to see you again, Ally.
Alison.
Alison.
Say hi to Zoe.
I will.
I hope she gets better.
I'll tell her that.
What is this??!
Makes Cecil B. DeMille look like the Senior Class play, right?
But...why?
Well  you've got me! What can I say?
Plenty! About 'The Crime of the Century,' Remember?
Oh, that. Listen  you're busy  and it's a long story 
This is California. The richest, most populous state in America. And growing like a sonofagun.
I don't need a geography lesson, Luthor.
No, Superman, of course not. You do get around, don't you.
It's just that  I spent a fortune on these things! And all for naught! What a waste 
Of time, Luthor.
Right, right. Where was I? Ah, yes 
At the San Andreas Fault. Maybe you've heard of it.
Sure. It's the joining together of two land masses pushed together eight million years ago. The fault line itself is unstable and always shifting, which is the reason you get earthquakes in the California area from time to time.
Couldn't have said it better myself. Now all this   west of the Fault is the most expensive real estate in the world. Los Angeles. San Diego. San Francisco. And here   is just hundreds and hundreds of miles of cheap desert land. Land that happens to be owned by Lex Luthor Enterprises. Well... ...call me a fool, but ...it did occur to me that if a conventional five hundred megaton bomb were to explode at exactly the proper stress point   that would trigger the upheaval that would cause the San Andreas Fault to 'do its thing.' Ah, it would've been so nice, y'know...
Nice! Most of California would have been destroyed. Millions of people would've been killed! The West Coast as we know it would have 
 Dropped into the sea! Byebye California! Hello, new West Coast! Gold Coast! My Coast. And now...well... I left my heart in San Francisco...
It would never have worked, Luthor. You are a dreamer  a sick, twisted dreamer.
Maybe I should get help.
It wouldn't hurt. You can't go on living in fantasies. Did you really think you could get hold of a nuclear bomb? And drop it? Why, our Strategic Defense boys would have 
You're right, you're right, Superman. There were wrinkles to iron out. But, well... ...there is this new rocket, the XK 101.
The XK 101. Luthor, that operates on radio waves. And with our failsafe system, only the President himself can push that button.
I know. I know. I never promised myself a rose garden.
Still, foolishly, perhaps, I had a theory that eliminates the Presidential pushbutton. I was doing my homework...
On radio waves?
And garbage doors.
Luthor 
You guessed it! You're always one step ahead of me. Aren't you Superman? Yes, right. There was a police helicopter buzzing the area and transmitting on the same frequency as the garage doors. The minute the signal went out  Zip! Zip! Zip!
Well, that's their problem, T.S. But  but the XK 101 also works on a radio wave control system. The problem was to find out the frequency. Problems, problems, I've had so many...
They'll soon be over.
In a way  oh, it'll be a relief. I'm a wreck. No rest for the wicked, y'know. It wasn't enough, the radio frequencies, then I had to worry about getting to the missile and adjusting the aiming. So that if I could have activated the launch  well, Lex Luthor would've hit the spot. There's a little place on Route 190. Dead on the practice optimum stress point of the San Andreas Fault. It wouldn't mean much to you, Superman, but I call it...target zero. Pancho's Taco Palace...
Well, it's very impressive but you built this junk for nothing.
For the first time today, Superman I must tell you that you're wrong. But how could you know that  Oh, well. I guess I could tell you now. Y'see, actually...but this conversation is becoming rather dry, isn't it.
Now who's the dreamer, Superman? Even you can't fly that fast!
We'll see how fast I can fly.
I...uh...
No speeches, Otis. Just watch what Albert has prepared. What are you waiting for?
Now then, Otis. Did you get what I asked for?
Yessir. Just what you wanted.
There.
Not there! A pine tree in Death Valley? Idiot! This is for the North Woods section!
Did I do good, Mr. Luthor?
Excellent, Otis. But what took you so long?
What's the matter, Otis?
Matter? With me? Nothing's the matter.
Otis, were you up to your old tricks?
I broke the man out of prison 
I'll always be grateful, Mr. Luthor.
I gave him steady employment 
I'll never forget you for that, Mr. Luthor.
I gave him this new face.
I...uh...check.
And now he lies to me. He has been stealing ladies' purses again. Haven't you? Haven't you, you miserable petty crook?
I guess I...uh...regressed.
Please...
Otis...
Is that real enough for you?
It is for me.
Y'know? I'm sure of it. Y'know? And there's a strong streak of goody goody in him that is going to blow this deal for me if I don't do something about it. Something!
But, to someone from the planet Krypton, this substance would be lethal because of its high level of radioactivity. Kryptonite! Ah, Kryptonite! That's the stuff!
You mean bullets and fire and all that can't hurt him, but this kind of rock 
Will kill him! And I'm going to have a piece of the rock! Miss Teschmacher, pack your 
Well, gents? What did I tell you? It's a piece of cake.
It's a Twinkie, boss.
They're killing me by inches! Go ahead! Make me suffer! Milk me dry.
Maybe it's being polished or something. Maybe they're cleaning it.
Cleaning a rock, Otis? Jot it down. As soon as we're back, he feeds the pets.
Oh, Mr. Luthor...
I still don't get it.
Ah, dear simple Otis. Albert explain it to him.
Sort of.
Good enough for you. Now then   tell me something I like to hear. As many times as I hear it...
Easy now, miss, I've got you???
You've got me? Who's got you???
Do as I say. Let go!
Oh, God! I'm going to die!
Not while I'm around you're not. C'mon...
Who...who...
Let's just say I'm a friend. And watch yourself from now on with those things, Okay? I mean if the good lord wanted people to fly he would have given them wings.
With my luck, now it'll rain.
Not a chance. It's too nice a night.
Superman???
Right on the first guess.
Wha'...what are you doing here?
I came to talk to you.
The answer is yes. Now what's the question?
There's been a lot of confusion in the media about who I am and what I'm up to and all that. I'd like to set the record straight. With your help.
This is incredible. I was just sitting here trying to figure out how to contact you. I mean, you don't have an answering service, right?
Unlisted number, Shall we proceed?
Well...flashlight?
I think you'll be able to remember it. I doubt you'll misquote me.
If I do, you can punish me. Fly me to Bermuda and just lave me there for two weeks. This is fantastic! I wish Clark were here.
Who's Clark? One of your colleagues?
Not exactly. He's kind of a rewrite man. Actually, he's a bit dull, if you know what I mean.
Oh, I've got to get some matches. My cigarette.
I'd appreciate it if you didn't smoke.
Oh. Well, where do we start?
Ask, You're the girl reporter.
Okay. Let's start with these strange powers of yours.
You think they're strange?
I didn't mean that in any pejorative way.
I guess they are a little odd.
Well, I mean it's not everybody that can deliver an air mail letter without putting a stamp on it.
I wouldn't do that. It's against the law.
Oh.
The reason I can fly is because my molecular structure is so constituted that I have a lighter density under Earth's gravitational force.
It must feel great.
It's not bad.
How old are you?
Thirtyfive.
How much do you weigh?
195 pounds.
What about this XRay vision of yours?
What about it?
Can you really see through anything?
Uhhuh.
Is it true you're impervious to pain?
Yes. Although I can get a headache just like anyone.
Do bullets really bounce off you?
Only when somebody shoots them at me.
What color underwear am I wearing?
Pink.
Can you actually fly faster than the speed of sound?
Sure.
Do you like pink?
Very much.
Where do you hail from?
Well, I was born on a planet your scientists don't know too much about. It's in the Xeno Galaxy. Or it was. It was called Krypton. That's KRYP...
Here's the story on that East 19th Street murder spree. Page one with a banner headline seems about right to me.
It does, huh? Clark Kent, I'd like you to meet Lois Lane.
Lois, take Kent there and introduce him around
Okay, but...why? No offense.
Lois, the kickback story...
Nine to five it's a Pulitzer Prize, I know.
I was going to say that there's only one 'p' in subpoena. What the hell did you major in at Radcliffe? Middle English? Nice job on the teamster's update, Kent.
If one of you can get that  I mean, I want the real Superman. Who is he? Where's he from? What's his favorite ball team? What's up?
He is. Usually.
Whoever comes up with that will make Woodward and Bernstein look like Abbot and Costello.
I don't know what to say. Look, I  I just 
Enjoyed it?
I guess I got carried away
My son, I foresaw this. I knew 
No! You couldn't imagine 
How good it felt!
How good it felt 
....to feel yourself. Very well. You are revealed to the world. But still you must keep your secret identity. First of all, you will need it as an escape valve. You cannot be special twentyeight hours a day 
Twentyfour.
Or twentyfour as it is in Earth time. Furthermore, if you will reveal yourself, your enemies will have a way of getting at you where you are vulnerable: by hurting the people you care for. Ah, this Earth...this world you live in, KalEl... Resist its temptations, its rewards, especially its political system.
There are none of them any good anyway.
And it is forbidden for you to interfere with human history. All you can do, KalEl, even now that you have...found yourself...is help them to evolve. Set an example. Show them they must strive towards the light. And... remember us...
It's the only logical conclusion. If he remains here, he'll be as dead as...
 as we will be.
Lara, please...
But why Earth, JorEl. They're practically animals.
They are primitive, Lara, but they are not animals.
A million years behind us. JorEl, he's only a baby.
Their atmosphere will sustain him. He will look like one of them.
He'll be weightless.
Yes, true. But on other worlds there would be other problems  heat, cold, no life, no life support systems...No, Lara, believe me; Earth is the least of evils. On Earth, his lighter gravity will render him almost weightless  that can't be helped. But with his denser molecular structure, he will also be strong. He will be fast, He will be virtually invulnerable.
He will be odd, different.
Well, physiologically, he... won't quite fit.
You've been doing some research in the archives.
I want to know what my child is going to face.
Then you have on of those 'feelings.' It was called: 'love.'
It's a ...baby.
What's your name, boy?
Don't just stand there gapin' Jonathan. Can't you see he's cold?
Well  gotta change that tire if were gonna get home.
All of us.
The good lord works in mysterious ways.
He sure as heck does that.
All these years, happy as we've been, how I prayed and prayed He'd see fit to give us a child. And just when I finally accepted my bitter lot... No one must ever know.
Folks'll ask question.
We'll say he's a child to my cousin in North Dakota, and just now orphaned. Poor thing.
Guess I'd better hitch up the rig and come back to get that...that thing he was settin' in. What do you make of that thing? Martha? You listening?
I was thinkin' what to call him. I was thinkin' I had an uncle who was a fine man, you recall him? The Church Sexton
Who? Clark? I never cared two hoots for that fella. Jonathan Jr. That's got a ring to it.
We don't want a child called 'Junior,' ain't that so, Clark? Why sure it is.
Got all A's this year. Teacher said he's the best 5th grader in the 
Don't brag now, Jonathan.
Oh, dear. That isn't what I 
What your mother means, Clark, is that she don't want folks to think you're special.
I bless the day you came to us, son. You know that. But some people wouldn't understand.
What're you writing, Lois?
an Ode to Spring. are there one or two "T's" in bloodletting?
Two.
'And the people on the street, the little man who runs the corner newsstand, the old lady sunning herself on the stoop the kids playing stick ball  none of them will ever forget the night of senseless bloodletting that turned a friendly block part into a nightmare.'
Boy!
Gets you where you live, huh?
How come you get all the good stories, Lois?
It's because I'm an intrepid girl reporter, Jimmy. Besides, the chief of detectives has the hots for me.
Need I ask who's favored to collect at the end of this week.
On the salary he pays me, I can't make my rent without it.
But you can't ignore these facts! It's suicide! Worse than that, it's genocide.
JorEl, Be warned. This tone of yours approaches insolence.
My friends, I am not a rash, impulsive person. I'm not given to wild, unsupported statements. We must evacuate this planet immediately!
You are one of Krypton's greatest scientists JorEl 
Then 
But so is VondEl
I have sworn to uphold the laws of Krypton.
This discussion is terminated. The decision of the council is final. You will cease pursuing this matter. Any attempt by you to continue, to create a climate of fear and panic among the populace, will be deemed an act of insurrection!
And if I don't obey?
As an irredeemable criminal? You compare me to them?
If you persist, you leave us no choice.
Will you abide by the Council's opinion?
Neither my wife nor I will attempt to leave Krypton.
You and your real estate.
Me and my real estate? How many other girls, Miss Teschmacher, are lucky enough to have a Park Avenue address like this?
It isn't a Park Avenue address. really.
So it's six hundred feet below Park Avenue, It's still a Park Avenue address.
Why does it all mean so much to you? All the time, 'land, land, land.'
My father always said to me, 'Son, don't invest your money in anything but land. Land! Stocks rise and fall, banks fall, people are no damn good, but they'll always need land and for that they'll pay through the nose. 'Remember that ,' my father said. 'Land."
Your father was a sick weirdo.
I know that. Bu tin this case he was right. Arnold 'Buster' Luthor, the most inept check forger of his time  A pity he didn't live to see his son strike out for the big city. A pity he didn't live to see how, from humble beginnings, I created an empire.
This??
Compared to what came before? A year of living in the sewers? A part of that will always be with me.
So I've noticed.
Criers and complainers! That's what I get! Moaners and groaners! Me, Lex Luthor, who figured out how to live in luxury without ever paying one cent in taxes. Lex Luthor, who built this fantastic kingdom under the sea, so to speak, hidden and undetected by the fools who eke out their miserable lives on the streets above.
Streets, Sunlight. When was the last time I saw sunlight.
You'll be seeing stars in a minute, Miss Teschmacher. y'know?
Even that would be an improvement.
Speaking of feeding things, what about dinner?
What about dinner? I have to worry about the crime of the century, that's all. Y'know? Am I supposed to worry about what's in the refrigerator, too? What's in it?
Again???
First the pets, Otis.
I needed this, Y'know? I really needed this. just when I'm nearing the fruition of my project, Big Bird flies into town. Go ahead! Kill me by inches! Put me on the agony rack!
You think he's for real?
He's from another world.
Nuts. He made it.
Tough guy, huh?
Bet he makes it.
You're on.
Shut up.
I didn't say a word.
Damn! This will get him.
Place your bets, ladies and gentlemen.,
What's the temperature now?
Fifty degrees below and still falling.
When it gets to seventyfive below, stabilize it.
Krypton!
Krypton? The place where Superman comes from?
Some people can read 'War and Peace' and come away thinking it was a simple adventure story. Other people can read the ingredients on a chewing gum wrapper and come away with the secret of the universe. Y'know.
I read the article.
Exactly, Miss Teschmacher.
See?
See? I see. It's you who don't see. Doesn't see. I cannot believe it! How you people fail to grasp the longrange significance of this! Y'know?
I'm going to bed.
Stay and listen! Besides, it's twelve in the afternoon. This is no time to go to bed.
Mr. Romance...
Deductive reasoning, my friends! That's the name of the game. What does it say here?
Meteorites!
Bingo!
Ahh. 'National Geographic." In my day, this made 'Playboy" look like Mother Goose.
I don't mean to denigrate your misspent youth, Lex, but what does that rock have to do with 
Tune me in , lady. An explosion such as the one Superman describes would have altered the molecular structure of the Krypton rock.
I know I'm going to get rapped in the mouth for saying this, but so what?
No, you're going to get kissed,
Breathe that air, Miss Teschmacher.
I will as soon as I get the sand out of my nose.
You're happy, aren't you?
La de da da...
You're not going to tell us why you're happy, are you?
The door jam, Miss Teschmacher. This Ethiopian shmendrick here, in his simple, unconscious way, needed something to wedge the door open, the better to inhale the flies that form such an important part of his diet. So he grabs something from the table...
We just take it?
What do you suggest, my dear?
The least we can do is leave him another door jam.
About Vesuvius. About Superman writhing in the bowels of the volcano. Ahh, the look on his face when he saw that Kryptonite. When will I see another, y'know? Y'know?
I don't like to talk about it, Lex.
Weak sister. I still can't figure out why it took so long for you to catch up with us after we all ran out. Y'know?
You ever try to run in high heels? You probably did.
Is that an innuendo, Miss Teschmacher? Because if it is, you are about to experience the heady thrill of being hurled from a moving vehicle.
Ready?
Ready.
They stop for nothing.
But if I put my leg out like Claudette Clobert in 
Nothing.
Don't let me down.
You?! How about me?
You have two minutes and thirty two seconds.
No news is not good news. Y'know
There was a recipe on the back 
Something you can feed the pets, perhaps? Let's have it.
You're not going to hit me?
Hit you? A clever girl like you? 'He turned slowly, slowly in the lava...' was how you described it. Now that's clever. I have to hand it to you.
I knew you'd hit me.
You've been under such a strain. And I've ...I've   neglected you. Mea culpa! Y'know.
I know...
She knows. Clever, very clever. And unappreciated. But I'm going to take you away from all this.
A night on the town instead of under it?
Baby  I'm going to take you higher.
I don't understand.
Yours not to reason why, Miss Teschmacher. Relax! Enjoy it! Just look at that smog!
This all has something to do with Superman, doesn't it?
Your volcano chum? Your junior lifesaving buddy? Let's get high.
I didn't bring any 
Oh. Why? does he live up here?
Not exactly. But it's his kind of neighborhood.
What are you going to do to him?
Nothing, nothing. I just want to invite him to tea.
Tea?
You got wax in your ears?
What if he doesn't show up? What if he's taking a nap?
He always shows up when somebody's in danger.
Danger?? Somebody??? Lex  where are you going?
Lex is going byebye.
Where's mine?! Where's my parachute?
Miss Teschmacher, Superman is a fairly bright individual. My understanding of the way he works is that he won't be fooled by a simple trick.
Good. Fine. Now where's my parachute?
I'm wearing it.
I mean the other one!
What other one?
You can't do this to me!
Of course I can. I love you.
Listen...thank you.
You too. I just...I can't get it on for good guys. Y'know?
You! The girl from the volcano! Kryptonite...
Help! I mean  I can't stop saying it. Silly, isn't it  There's nothing to worry about. Help! See.
What are you doing here?
Screaming
Besides that.
He wants to see you. Lex Luthor.
The bald man! The one who tried to kill me?
The way you describe him doesn't really do him justice.
I'd better get you down.
Couldn't we forget the plane? You could lift me in your big strong arms?
Sure, and let the plane crash in the middle of the city.
Oh.
Look, lady, you saved my life once. I owe you a favor. But I can't understand why you follow a man like that.
What can I tell you? He's my leader.
Okay. Take me to your leader.
I'd like to.
Well!
I'll bet you have some good ideas.
Hey, you're getting a better class of people in your office these days, Boss.
Your bookie?
No.
I know. He sends a check every week to his dear grayhaired old mother.
Actually, she's silverhaired.
Not...gray.
Not really, no.
Are there any more at home like you?
Not really, no.
Well, how are you enjoying your first day on the job?
I think I lost a week's salary at the dart board.
Some people aren't the athletic type.
But otherwise it's swell.
'Swell.' When was the last time I heard anybody say  where are you from , anyway?
See? Didn't I tell you this was a tough town?
Unbelievable.
Not in Metropolis it isn't. This is the home of the sneak attack, the stab in the back, the 
Hey!
What the  !
Stop him, Clark!
He may have a gun!
Oh, for God's sake!
It isn't worth getting a heart attack over, Lois.
You're great with the advice, Clark. Maybe you'd better take over the lovelorn column.
Supposing that man had hurt you? Is it worth risking your life over ten dollars, two credit cards, and a lipstick? I mean, it's not as if 
Know what?
You described the exact contents of my purse.
I just took a shot at it.
What now, my love?
Huh?
Big night coming up?
Oh, not really. I guess I'll just watch a little TV and   unless...would you be interested in dinner?
Thanks, Clark, but I'm booked for the night.
Oh.
It's not what you think. Darn it. I'm going out on a story. The Secretary of Defense is landing at the airport tonight and this kid's going to be there to make sure he answers a few questions he'd rather duck.
Don't you ever give up?
For what? Oh, I've see the way the other half lives. My sister, for instance. it looks terrific, but is that what I really want? Three kids, two cats, and fifteen needlepoint pillows? I'd go bananas after one week. Hell, I need this crazy existence of mine. Like I need the plague, right? That's what your thinking.
No. I'm just thinking that you smoke too much, if you don't mind my saying so.
There's no real proof that tobacco 
Lois, you should see what the inside of your lungs look like.
Can I take you to the airport?
Not unless you can fly.
Come again?
I'm telling you, I was there.
You were probably so scared you didn't look to see what the trick was.
It wasn't a trick!
Oh sure. A man flies in the sky like a pigeon and it wasn't a trick.
Clark Kent, if you had only seen it the way I did, you 
It was done with wires. They must have rigged him like they do with Peter Pan.
There weren't any wires. I looked.
Mirrors, then. It's done with mirrors.
He grabbed me! He held me! He set me down gently! How could that be done with mirrors?
Look, there was probably a trampoline on the roof somewhere and this joker just took a big bounce.
Why would he do that? How would he know I was going to suddenly slip.
I don't know, Lois, but I do know a fraud when I hear one. This thing goes against all natural laws.
You're just jealous.
Jealous? Of what?
Of this...Superman.
What'd you call him?
Superman. Pretty good name for him, isn't it?
Is that what they're calling him?
They will once I hang it on him in tomorrow's edition.
Super...man. Hmmm...
It isn't that I still don't like you, Clark. It's just that...well, once you've had something like that happen to you, it kind of changes a girl. I'm going to make some coffee. You want some?
No thanks.
Oh, what a chance! If I could just  get to him.
You're not the only one.
Yes, but I'm the only one who knows him. I  I really like the guy. And he likes me. I think. I mean, I could talk to him, you know? And he could talk to me. Anytime...
Clark...Son...that...thing you did with the Sheriff today... those...stunts...you don't do those things at school, do you?
No, Mom. You know I wouldn't break my promise.
I know you're a good boy, Clark. No mother could ask for better. It's just that...
Don't worry, Mom. I know.
Anyway, we Kent's don't like showoffs, ain't that so? A body's got to be humble even if he knows that he's better'n his neighbors.
Mom...
I know.
I talked to Ben Hubbard this morning. He'll be more than glad to bring in the crops on shares.
He's a good man, Ben is. Your father always said so.
Mother...
I know son, I know...
Do you know where you're headed?
North. It's north
Keep warm now.
I will.
You'd better get a new alarm clock. The chief has been hollering for you.
I've been on the job.
A hot story, huh?
It was hot, yes.
You and Lois, you get all the action. There she is, out in the wild West and everything.
Lois isn't here?
She's in California. That's wild enough, I guess.
What's she doing in California?
It's for that piece she's doing on women and competition. She's off to the Women's Western Golf Classic.
I know, but 
Stop saying you know when I say 'y'know.' I know you know. Yes, I know you're here, Otis. What do you want, a brass band?
You'll be designing monuments soon, Albert! Hotels! Palaces!
Bunkers!
I take the man out of Argentina  and it was no picnic finding him y'know? And what does he think about? Bunkers. Still living in the past, when I am about to realize the greatest real estate scheme in the history of the world!
There's some slice American cheese...and...a half a bottle of club soda, I think.
Wonderful. Otis will go above and steal some Big Macs.
Ahhhh, my favorite part of the day. Who else could have thought of this aquarium?
Nobody else.
Shut up, applepolisher.
That the planet blew up on May 23, 1937. That the rocket ship with the revolting little freak in it took three years to reach Earth. Ergo?
He's thirtyfive years old.
You're a great architect, Albert.
Thank you.
Otherwise, you're a Mongoloid idiot. It's reasonable to assume that fragments of the planet were shot out into space by the force of the explosion, and 
Ah! The guest of honor at last! And about time, too!
We're running out of smoke.
But Mr. Luthor, sir, I already 
And stop interrupting. his is the big scene. Your finest hour! You rose to the challenge, baby! And you lost. That's the best part!
It's very simple, Otis. Very simple, the XK101 rocket. It's nothing, forty years ago we in the Fatherland were working on this. Five more years, we would've had it. But then   that silly war...Why, my cousin Werner had already 
Albert!
 thought about a rocket that carries a nuclear warhead in its nosecone and can strike with an impact of 
Yes, so, well, Werner would've gotten to that too but   but the XK101 flies only eight feet above the ground...well below the radar limit! So what? We could have done that soon. We had ways to make people ta ways to avoid the radar. And this XK101  they think it's so smart that they keep it in 'missile silos' underground. Hah! We kept many things underground.
One of them should've been you.
Yes, Mr. Luthor. The XK101 can travel anywhere in the world undetected. It also has a sensory device built into it so that it can detect any obstacle in its path and avoid it. It just goes around it or over it. The XK101 never quits! It will not stop until it reaches its pretargeted target!
Got it? Otis?
Me?
Not you. You. Tell me again.
Guess who? It's your old friend, Lex.
Luthor, I suspect if you had actually planted a bomb you'd be far away from here by now.
Silly me. How do I ever think I can fool the super guy. You're right, no bomb. I just knew you were too busy with the world peace bit to make a social call. I confess . . . I tricked you. Hey, you look great!
If you have any social skills, you've learned them from a rattlesnake. Just what are you up to?
Know something? You're a workaholic. A good guy 24 hours a day. Stop and smell the roses sometime. Take up a hobby. Get a pet . . . a kitten or a puppy. . .
It's common knowledge you hate children and animals. Why are you back in Metropolis?
Why? Because I want to be the first one to introduce you to a new kid on the block.
Look closely at his cell structure. See anything familiar?
You've broken all the laws of man, Luthor. And now you've broken the laws of nature! . . . I assume you must have hidden a device in one of the missiles I hurled into the sun!
Your time in prison has twisted you into a delusionary state, Luthor.
No, no, listen. I escaped with only one thing on my mind . . . the end of Superman.
I'm not going anywhere.
I'll ignore that . . . So, I created a monster who didn't work nearly as well as I might have liked  you were clearly his better  he needed more energy, more power.
Which explains why you sent his organic matter to the sun.
Precisely. And then it came to me. My greatest ever plan. I made a deal with some minor league Bad Boys. Arms Dealers, Renegades Generals, You know the type. With you gone, we'll make a fortune rearming the world.
You'd risk worldwide nuclear war for your own personal financial gains.
Nobody wants war. I'd just like to keep the threat alive.
A mind is a terrible thing to waste, Lex Luthor. And you've wasted yours on this foul monstrosity. I'm taking you in.
Superman. . . But you're... dead!
Still having delusions, Lex Luthor?
I'll deal with you later.
Right, good. Tell you what, we'll wait right here. Till you get back.
But . . . how could you beat him?
High School Physics, Luthor. While I was recuperating I had time to figure out that if your foul creature was born from the sun, it must have been his source of energy.
But . . . but isn't the world about to be osterized?
No . . . it's the way it always is . . . on the brink . . . with good fighting evil.
What I need this for?
For dignity. My reputation is at stake. Just put it on.
I hadn't counted on this but . . . . . . of course  the power of the sun has given him internally generated heat. I am a ...
You are . . .
What? A genius? . . . an inspiration?
You are . . . nothing. I am father now.
I am an experiment? I am freako?
I made you, and I can destroy you.
Destroy Superman!
Wait! Not yet! Back!
Nifty, huh? Goodnight Sweet Prince, parting is . . . inevitable Now, destroy Superman.
First, I have fun.
Nice bit. You're good. With my brain and your, well, frankly, brawn, the possibilities are staggering. I could be . . . Emperor, King! Did you see how scared those guys were?
What do you fear?
Me? Now? With Superman dead and you on my team? It's like I'm the coach and you're the best power forward ever. What could I have to fear?
Destiny.
Stop! I command you . . . you mutant!
I am master now.
Are we going to skip the country, Uncle Lex?
Lenny, ,you pathetic product of the public school system. Your Uncle Lex has had only one thing on his awesome mind during his incarceration . . . Destroying Superman!
Do you realize what I can create with a single strand of Superman's hair!
A toupee that flies?
. . . I look at you, Lenny, and I know how the Romans felt when the barbarians arrived at their city gate.
But why the hair?
That hair contains a sample of Superman's genetic material. The building blocks of his body. With my genius and enough nuclear power to mutate those genes, I will create a being with all his powers . . . but with absolute allegiance to me!
He missed the door, Uncle Lex.
Quiet! You'll make him selfconscious.
Whoa. . .
He has all of Superman's powers. If I've planned it right. . .
Gee, Uncle Lex, I don't think this guy's much of a dancer.
Let's try to keep your I.Q. a family secret, Leonard. Before we launch him against Superman, we have to test him ... see how well he does with mayhem and destruction. Kind of a coming out party under the glare of media covering the Metro Club gala. And once he proves himself, then . . .
Superman broke your monster, Uncle Lex.
I must have miscalculated. How. . .
Gee, Uncle Lex, I was just getting to the good part.
Get the box, nephew.
Hey, Uncle Lex, how's the Nuclear Guy goin' to find his way here?
Oh Leonard . . . When I sent the remains of my last experiment . . .
The one Superman wrecked up?
Not how I might have put it, but, correct. The remains I sent to the sun included the creatures genetic memory. He'll remember everything that he experienced. Not to worry. He'll find his way back to me. Did you hear that?
You're spookin' me out, Uncle Lex.
There!
Hey! He looks . . . normal.
He's . . . beautiful. Perfect.
Hey! Just remember I made you.
You're just an experiment, freako!
What was that about?
Didn't you see it? He lifted me up and crashed me down.
Hmm . . . Nuclear levitation. Now that's a trick that could come in handy.
He's . . . cold. . .
Good. Let's hope he stays that way.
Of course! That's his one vulnerability. The one way he can be stopped.
What?
Boy, are you gonna get it.
My nephew, Leonard. He worships me. Let's share a toast to you . . . a nice guy who's about to finish last.
We'll all fry.
This wasn't in the plan.
I think he has his own plan, Uncle Lex.
Don't worry honey, I'm sure he'll make a swell husband.
Ready, Uncle Lex?
If you need us we'll, be five hundred feet underground waiting for the Nuclear winter to turn to nuclear spring.
You think he'll find us.
Never. But we have to hide out for a while. Lay low. Say. . . a couple of years. By then I'll have a new plan.
Lucky I brought my drums.
Is he for real?
One hundred percent. And I like him that way.
I think he's kind of cute.
Forget it, Princess. Clark is the world's oldest boy scout Trustworthy, loyal, obedient, helpful... and I don't remember the rest, but he's them too. And I promise, he's not interested in anyone like you.
But all men like me, Lois. I'm very rich.
. . . And very nave!
This letter was addressed to Superman care of me.
Superman gets mail here?
I think there's an angle.
An angle?
Daddy loves to whip up campaigns! People eat it up. We'll make this kid a celebrity. The whole world will be waiting for Superman's answer.
I know I'm not exactly a Girl Scout but . . . maybe if I show him I'm trying . . . he'll like me.
Who?
Clark. He's late again. I can't figure him out.
That's because there's nothing to figure out. Now will you please pay attention. I'm not through insulting your father.
Lois, have you ever fallen for a guy and he's not like other guys . . . he's different. It's like you come from two different worlds.
And your heart beats faster just thinking about him.
Right . . . you want to tell him how you feel . . .
But he's never there.
Why, Lois, I didn't know . . . Who is he?
What's he going to say?
Something . . . wonderful.
What's that?
Our other dinner guest.
Where's Clark?
He was getting on . . . and then this man with luggage and . . . oh, it's a long story.
It always is with Clark.
Not so fast! All trips are canceled. We pay for wire services. And what we don't get from them, we'll invent.
Mr. White, come with me I want to see
Who does Clark Kent think he is anyway! He never even said good night!
Clark Kent! You socialized with him . . . a . . . reporter!
Oh . . . no . . . I mean, we just went dancing . . . for a story . . .
Your grandfather had one iron rule that's stood me well. Never fraternize with the help. Keep too your own station. Am I clear?
Darling, it's good riddance. Let her go. And while you're at it, fire that Clark Kent. He hasn't been here in days. He hasn't even called.
I know Daddy. I'm worried about him.
Didn't we have our little talk about personal involvement with the help? Now that you're the publisher . . .
Daddy . . . ?
Yes, darling?
Stuff it.
Tone down our headlines? Lacy, that's all the common man reads!
I'd just like to have a little less sensationalism.
Less sensational papers go broke. I thought I taught you long ago the business of newspapers is business.
No, Daddy. Our business is journalism. We can't continue to be so irresponsible . . . or else we'll just lead everyone into a disaster.
Don't be overdramatic, young lady. What kind of disaster could we help bring about?
Impossible? Why?
Because I made a vow. Never to interfere in the destiny of your planet.
But what good is a vow if everything gets blown away? What good was my letter?
I'm going to pass this letter on to all the leaders of the world. I promise you. For it is they , and not I, that represent the people of Earth.
Well, I don't understand.
I'm sorry.
Would you mind taking a walk with me?
Absolutely!
Would you mind waiting for me in the visitor's gallery?
Nno...I mean...you bet.
Awesome!
Jeremy, I need you to tell the people of the world what you see.
I'll try. . .
Well . . . I see the ocean currents. . . and the rain . . . and mountains and rivers. . . but . . .
Go on . . .
But you can't tell where one country begins and another ends. You can't see any borders. It's just . . . one world.
Good. If you can see it, and I can see it, maybe some day everyone will see it.
Close the curtains. The sun is hurting my eyes.
Of course it is. Do you know what the sun is? Why it's just one huge nuclear bomb. A bomb with enough radiation to incinerate an average man like . . . that.
But Superman isn't an average man.
And what am I? A Shriner? No, If you'll join forces with me, together we can make the world safe for war profits again.
Boys, old Lex has a secret recipe in this dish . . . call it a genetic stew. You help me place it on one of your missiles and I promise you . . . if Superman throws it into the sun, he'll get the biggest surprise of his life. I'll be able to introduce Superman to his first nightmare . . . a Nuclear Man!
And this socalled . . . Nuclear Man. . . of yours can defeat Superman?
Do people die in Italian Operas? Gentlemen, if all goes to plan Nuclear Man will return from the sun with power awesome enough to do what none before him has ever been able to . . . pierce Superman's skin. He'll be mortal, he'll get sick . . . and we'll dance on his grave.
And what do we get out of it?
If my plan works, gentlemen, I'll just take a tiny commission . . . something . . .appropriate. . . a number with a lot of zeros after it.
Lex, we all appreciate how you've supported us lately and . . . uh . . . in recognition of your hard work we've decided to increase your commission to 12 percent.
Gee guys, that's swell of you. But . . . I've got another idea.
Regardez. Voila Monsieur David Warfield.
That tycoon who owns all those sleazy tabloids?
Au contraire, mon ami! He owns all those sleazy tabloids and the Daily Planet!
No Paris?
I don't think we're being treated fairly, Lois. And I'm going to tell Miss Warfield.
Clark . . . wait!
The President is about to speak. I don't think it's going to be good news.
You always overreact, Clark. How terrible can it be?
Oh, probably just a picture request. I'll take care of it if you want, Lois.
I don't think 'fan mail' fits this letter. Read it, Clark.
'Are you or are you not part of a plot to weaken our national defense?'
It's her father's grey matter that's weakened if you ask me. How can I ask Superman such a dumb question.
Politely?
. . . Please leave your message at the beep.
Clark, it's Lois. This is the fourth message. I've left. . . Where are you ?
It's just a bad flu, really. How did you know . . .
You haven't been at work . . . you didn't call the office . . . you didn't even call me. How could you not call back?
Superman? Has something happened to him?
Everyone's saying he's . . . dead. But I know that isn't true. I feel it in my heart. I think he just needs help.
You know him so well. But I'm sure he'll manage . . . wherever he is.
It must have been a super effort to get out of bed, Clark.
Well, I'm feeling a lot better . . . almost chipper . . . . . . and all because I had a visit from a very good nurse.
It's brilliant. Daddy thinks so, too. You'll write a new series  'Metropolis After Hours.'
I really don't think . . .
But you're perfect for it. You're young, you're single, you're successful...
And I'm usually in bed by tenthirty.
That's just it! You don't have to flaunt it. You're no slave to fashion ... although ...
They make my eyes itch.
Don't worry. I won't make you do it alone. I know all the right places. I'm a member at all the right clubs . . . We'll start tonight at the grand opening of the Metro Club! It's a date!
You're late. Very late.
Gosh, I'm sorry, we better get in line.
Oh, Clark, you're so delightfully primitive.
I've never been in a place like this before.
This is Metropolis after hours! This is what you'll be writing about. C'mon, let's dance.
Don't tell me. You learned to dance at church socials.
Actually, I had a crash course from my mother the night before my prom.
My prom was so boring. We all flew to Paris the next day to recover . . . Sometimes my whole life seems boring. I thing maybe I should just give everything away and go live among the poor people. Then I remember how smashing I look in sable . . . oh, it's all so confusing. You think I'm silly, don't you?
No ... Metropolis is a confusing place. Back in Smallville  my hometown  everything was more simple. People would sacrifice everything just to lend a helping hand.
That's not what we were taught. 'Look out for number one'  that's daddy's golden rule ... he always ends up with the gold.
Oh . . . no, there's no one back home.
What about here?
Well, my career takes up a lot of my time.
Don't tell me you're waiting for lightning to strike. Wideeyed romantics are an endangered species.
That sounds kind of pessimistic.
No, realistic. There's no magic in the world. Girls just don't get swept off their feet anymore.
I feel kind of lightheaded . . .
Don't worry, I've got you.
Maybe I should sit this one out.
Don't give up. This is a perfect subject for your series on young Metropolis. Now let's get those knees up!
Now you try, Clark. We'll start you off with 60 pounds.
If you say so. Here goes.
He's a jerk. I never noticed it before. Seems like a lot of people I know are jerks . . . . . . Maybe you think the same thing about me. That's why you keep avoiding me.
I'm not avoiding you. I've been very busy and . . . I like you . . . I really do.
Then prove it. Lois is doing an interview with Superman about his peace mission . . .
Yes, I know. I'm sure it will be a great story.
I'll just invite them both to my hotel suite and we'll have high tea. It's very chic.
Gee, I don't think . . .
Come early. The view is so romantic from my balcony.
Hello, Lacy. Can anybody break a twenty? The cabbie didn't have any change.
. . . Let me get my purse.
Shouldn't you pay the cabbie?
Oh . . . Right. . . I'll be back in a flash.
I missed you. It wasn't any fun up there with just Lois and Superman. They're so boring. Let's go do something wild!
But they're expecting us. It wouldn't be polite.
Oh . . . my . . .
Clark. . . !
Hi. Is dinner ready? I'm famished.
Let's sit down. They walk to the table. LOIS calls out to the balcony.
Gee, I'm really sorry.
No mind, it's only antique Irish linen.
Daddy's offered me jobs at some of his other companies. But, I've been thinking maybe I'll take some time off. I'm going to find a place like Smallville, in the country. Maybe a farm . . . see what the slow lane is like.
I'm sorry to see you go.
You don't have to be polite, Clark. I've got a pretty good idea of how you feel about me.
I'm not so sure you do.
Any more like you back home, Clark?
Like me?
You know: strong, gentle, tall men with bright blue eyes and square. Men who like to dance slow, the old fashioned way, the way their mothers taught them on the night before their prom.
You'll find a good man Lacy. You deserve one.
Maybe if you'd have met who I am now, instead of the spoiled brat you met a few weeks ago, it would have been different between us.
Lacy. . . I . . .
Free!
Free!
Strange. I tore those metal fibers like paper. And what he did . . .. Was amazing! Something is happening . . ..
Yes. To all of us. The closer we come to an atmosphere with only one sun  a yellow sun  the more our molecular density gives us unlimited powers!
DELETE IN CUTTING ) There . . . A place called . . . Houston . . .
Then we must go there too. To rule. Finally  to rule! And then you shall have what you want.
DELETE IN CUTTING
And I will lead.
So this is the planet Houston . . .
What shall we do now?
Stay. I will come to you.
Look, they need a machine to fly.
Brave young heroes. Be nice to them, my dear. Blow them a kiss.
You are master of all you survey.
And so I was yesterday. And the day before.
This "super" man is nothing of the kind. I have discovered his weakness.
Yes?
He... cares. He actually cares about these . . . . . .these People. These earth People .
Sentimental idiot.
He's captured Non!
Don't worry. I will draw his fire. With a few of my own.
General  ?
We must combine our strength.
Did you really believe we would give up our advantage?
"Supersucker . " For once, Lex Luthor was right.
And now they are willing to release the rest of the hostages?
In return for a guarantee that we will not launch an attack an them.
There will be no attack? No attempt to overpower the terrorists?
Um. . . .we have made this guarantee.
Yes, but will you honor it?
We have not the choice to refuse, have we, if we believe it is a real hydrogen bomb that they have.
I'm the man they're protecting. I'm the President. I'll kneel before you if it will save lives.
It will. Starting with your own.
Who is this imbecile? Where is he?
I wish I knew.  Oh, God.
Zod. Zod.
Who is this . . . Superman?
You'll find out, General! And when you do . . .
Come to me, Superman! If you dare! I defy you! Come! Come, and kneel before Zod!
You said it. Threetoone should get you both ears and the tail.
He ran in fear from us . . .
Why do you say this to me when you know I will kill you for it?
Kill me? Lex Luthor? Extinguish the greatest criminal flame of our age? Eradicate the only man on earth . . .
There is something more you want. The greed is written on your face.
Perhaps a small . . . incentive, your Ultimate. A tiny bauble to help me jog my memory . . .
What more?
Cuba.
No drinks . No movie. This is the last time I take a charter flight.
Where is his home, Lex Luthor? Which way?
North. Keep going North!
Put down Lex Luthor !
Put down Lex Luthor?
Hey, let's be fair. Actually, there've been two or three times 
Now I shall have the Son of JorEl as my slave! Forever. If not, the millions of earthlings you protect will pay for your defiance. Beginning with this one.
Perhaps there is some good in you after all, Lex Luthor.
Me? I'm loaded with good! I mean I've never even used it.
I'll have to take the chance. Try to get them all into that molecule chamber. It takes away their powers, reduces them to human beings. Now if you could . . .
Wait! Don't go in! It's a trap!
Luthor, you poisonous snake . . .
I knew you'd doublecross me, Luthor. A lying weasel like you couldn't resist the chance . . .
Are you kidding? I knew it all the time. Did you see how they fell into our trap? Beautiful . . .
Too late, Luthor. Too late . . .
Listen. Have I got a proposition for you, Superman. I mean I owe you one, you know? Now don't say yes or no till you hear me out . . .
Which one would you like to join, Luthor? Pick a hole.
Wait a minute, wait a minute, let's talk a deal, Superman. We can take a lunch on this 
Superman! The 
Really Lois, we've got to stop meeting this 
The bomb! It's in there! Any second now, its 
You must be freezing.
I must be. But I'm not. Your home. This is your home.
Well . . . it's been more like a fortress than a home. Until now.
So  I hope you like it.
Like it? It's magnificent! Not that it couldn't use a woman's touch. Especially around dinner time.
Dinner. Oh yes. I'm sorry, I just never do much about that. But tonight  I mean, anything you want, Lois.
I never did this before . . . I have to tell you.
Hey, don't worry. You'll be fine, Just . . . well, don't rush it.
It must be tough, having to be Clark Kent.
Oh no. I really like it sometimes. And if it weren't for him, I wouldn't have met you.
But him is you. Now I'm confused.
Wait, wait, wait just a moment. Wait till you've got to know better will you please. Wait,  look, I can give you anything you want. I can give you the brass ring, the  er  unlimited freedom to maim, cure, destroy, chew  plus Lex Luthor's savvy. Lex Luthor's career guidance... Lex Luthor's School of...
We have all of this without you. You cannot bargain with what you don't have.
Oh magnificent one. What I am bargaining with is what you do not have  the son of JorEl.
No, JorEl, the baseball player that came from Porto Rico. Yes JorEl your Jailer.
The son of JorEl on this Planet?
Oh my Fullness, as I explained to you before, I am about the best there is. Second best there is.
Revenge! We will kill the son of our jailer!
He flies as well, then . . .
Constantly.
He has powers as we do . . .
Certainly. But  Er. Oh Magnificent one, he's just one, but you are three, or four even, if you count him twice.
We will bring him to his knees!
Oh, General, the world is a big place. Thank goodness, my needs are small...As it turns out, I have this affinity for beachfront property . . .
What do you want?
Australia.
Don't feel bad, Mr. Luthor. It almost worked. I mean California almost threw up right in the ocean. Millions of people almost killed. If it hadn't been for that guy Superman  that overgrown boyscout...
I want my Liberace record back tonight.
DELETE IN CUTTING
DELETE IN CUTTING
I mean they can't even trace that guy on that radar they got, every time they try he just flies off.
Where?
North.
Why?
To ski?
OTIS, your brain defies any known scientific laws in its infinite capacity to deteriorate. Every man has a vulnerable point. Some like you Otis, have more that one. I didn't see Superman's in time. But now through patience, invention and skill, my black box is just about ready.
Oh! That black box in our cell?
Shhhhhhh!
That little black box, Mr. Luthor, I mean  what's it for?
That little black box goes beyond any known conventional radar, it tracks Alpha Waves.
Ahhhhhh  Alpha Waves.
LEX +++$+++
 as the keeper of the archives of Krypton, it falls to me to tell you of the darkest episode in our planets history.
Now This I want to hear.
For many eons the peoples of our world have lived together in harmony. Then there appeared among us three antisocial elements  what on Earth are classified as "criminals."
My kind of people.
The three proved  after exhaustive efforts  incapable of rehabilitation. Now as you know, we had no death penalty 
Sensible enough.
And so our scientists constructed, from an irreversible mathematical equation, the Phantom Zone. In it we imprisoned these three archvillains for all eternity.
No possibility for parole?
The Elders have, of course, thought long and hard about that question.
I asked the right question.
The one danger we have considered is that the Phantom Zone might  we cannot predict  just might be cracked by a nuclear explosion in space. I cannot say I am glad you asked me that 
I didn't ask her anything . . .
You no longer can serve humanity if you invest your time and emotion in one of them at the expense of the rest. Surely this is not how you repay their gratitude, KalEl. Could you really abandon the weak and the needy merely to fulfill some selfish dream.
Selfish! But they get a chance at happiness. Can't I have that chance?
You have been given a higher form of happiness. The happiness you feel by serving others, by inspiring them to 
Yes, but it's not all I feel.
Patience, KalEl. You begin to sound like an Earthling. SUPERMAN Mother, you speak only of honor, of sacrifice, of responsibility 
Because that is your heritage. Those are the values we lived by on Krypton.
But you had more than that, and I know it. You and my father  you had each other. Can I never have what you had?
And she  the one you have chosen  she feels as much for you?
Yes.
Mr. White, the pressroom wants to know how much longer to hold the front page.
Give it another ten minutes. If we don't  Hell, I'll tell him. Pete? If we haven't got anything new in the next ten minutes just go with the wire service copy under the 40 pt. banner and run the picture for three columns. Kent, I need a background story for the page 3 sidebar. Give me every thing you know about this terrorist group.
A gang of terrorists seized the Eiffel Tower in Paris
He knows where the Eiffel Tower is, Olsen. You do, don't you, Kent?
I can't understand it! Where is he? I mean, he shows up every time a cat gets stuck in a tree, and now he decides to pull a disappearing act?
Maybe we just don' t know his game plan.
Game plan! It's fourth down and long yardage, the twominute warning sounded and the ball's deep in our territory! How brilliant do you have to be?!
Superman's got something up his sleeve, that's for sure. We just haven't figured it out. Isn't that right, Miss Lane?
Artemis? Do you read me?
What'd he say before? He saw a girl?
I think he said a "curl."
What's a curl?
Isn't that what the old Canaveral guys used to call a comet on an EastWest trajectory?
How the hell would I know? I was in high school back in those days.
Well done, Miss Teschmacher.
Why am I doing this? Why am I here?
Is this a philosophy seminar? No. This is getaway.
This way Lex.
It' s fantastic!  This place is genius.
Genius!  Lex.
I'll be alright.
No, me, me, me. Thank you.
It's beautiful.
It's beautiful.
It has everything.
Wrong.
Why didn't you go before we left?
That was two days ago. Frankly, I think this place is a bit boring. It's all white. Why doesn't the guy put up some posters? Maybe some bullfight things . . .
It's beautiful.
Lex...Lex, how could you do that to Otis?
What else is ballast for?
How would you like to take a little vacation? I mean you've earned it, you know? You deserve it.
There is some good in you, Lex, after all.
You'll have to pack quickly.
A bikini! I'll need to buy a new bikini, Lex. C'mon. After being cooped up in that prison, haven't you thought about me in a bikini . . ...once maybe ?
A parka.
You thought about me in a parka. That's sick, Lex. Really.
North!
Mush! Mush!
Look at this! Snow. Ice. Your idea of a good time.
A good time! Is that all you care about?!
I wouldn't know. I've never had one.
I like trees.
So does your average cocker spaniel. Give me another one. Under . . . the big one there.
You'll miss the battle of the century!
Good. My heart can't take it.
Your heart, Miss Teschmacher? I never knew you had one.
Get your head out of the clouds, Kent. Where you been the last twelve hours?
Uh...home...
Don't you watch television? Don't you listen to the radio?
Actually I was trying to catch up on my reading. There's a lot of Dickens I never got around to 
Dickens! The whole world's about to blow up and you're reading Dickens?!
But . . ..that's terrible!
That's why they call 'em terrorists. Go down to the morgue and dig up anything you can find on past incidents of 
Does Lois know about this yet?
Does she know about it? She's in it!
What??
The minute the story broke I bundled her on the first Concord out of here. If Paris goes kablooey I want the best reporter I've got right there in the middle of it.
Gee. But 
No offense, Kent. You're good, but Lois is the best we've got.
No, I meant, it's awfully dangerous.
Lois, I usually do.
Then maybe you should get your glasses checked.
Not everyone can have Xray vision, you know.
Do I detect a note of jealousy?
Lois, what are you doing?
When was the last time you heard me sneeze?
Uh. . .
Well, you never will again! Thanks to Vitamin C! I'm reading a book that says the foundation of a sound body structure is one thousand milligrams of Vitamin C every day.
One thousand?? That's an awful lot of oranges. You know there are pill, Lois. I've seen them.
Oh sure. The American answer to everything. Pills. No, this is   natural.
I don't?
Of course not. Not when you've got so much going for you.
I do?
Sure! But nobody knows it. Least of all you. Look, would you mind if I gave you some constructive criticism?
Actually, yes.
Well, you shouldn't Be more aggressive, Clark! Trust your instinct! When you see your opportunity, grab it! I do.
Lois, why don't you at least get one of those automatic ones?
Haven't you heard? There's an energy crisis. No, this was good enough for my mother 
Maybe I could try 
Be my guest.
Clark, everything I was saying  can't you see I only say it because I really care?
Really?
Of course, that's what friends are for.
It is kinda romantic.
In July???
'Magic Fingers.' Fifty cents.
Hah, some guys say I have magic fingers.
Oh, you're a great writer, Lois, nobody doubts that.
Yeah, thanks. . . . I mean, really! Posing as newlyweds to uncover the honeymoon racket in Niagara Falls. I mean,. imagine wasting a great reporter   uh, reporters  on this. Perry White and his Sunday Magazine exposes.
But this should be exposed. They get kids here who are just starting out in life and they take them for every nickel they can get. That's what Perry says.
A "complimentary corsage."
Oh sure, everything is complimentary. Until you get the bill.
I was. . . uh. . . just wondering about the.. . .the.. . . the uh, arrangements. Sleeping arrangements.
Mr. Smith   the "complimentary couch."
I don't know, they look pretty happy to me...
That's because you can hardly see through those things.
Hey, are you hungry? I'm hungry.
Lois, you're amazing.
Aw, c'mon  anybody can get hungry.
No. I mean here you stand with one of nature's most awesome spectacles and the whole time you've had your back to it. Aren't you impressed?
Frankly, once you've seen Superman in action, Niagara Falls tends to leave you cold.
Where were you?
I was getting hot dogs. What do you mean?
I mean it strikes me funny that every time Superman comes around, you disappear.
Superman? Oh, was he here?
And you weren't. As usual. What do you say to that?
Lois, I don't have the vaguest idea  as usual  what you're 
Don't fake me out, Clark. Or whoever you are.
Whoever, I Look, maybe you ought to take a walk and clear your head. I'II meet you back at the motel.
Who ????
Listen, I've got to give you credit. Your disguise is nearly perfect. I mean, if you fooled me, and I am nobody's fool 
No, of course not, Lois. You just get carried away sometimes. Believe me, I understand 
You've been under a lot of pressure lately 
Uhuh. Listen, I'll tell you what. You say I'm wrong. And I say I'm right. So why don't we make a little bet on it?
How could you win a crazy bet like 
Because of what I'm betting. My life.
What??
Oh Clark, no!
Lois, help! I can't  I can't swim  !
It's true. It's true.
Lois, I . . .
I was right. you are Superman.
Oh come on, that's ridic 
You don't have anything to be sorry about. How could I . . .
Maybe you wanted to.
I didn't think I wanted to.
Well, not in your mind, but maybe . . .deep in your heart . . .
I'm in love with you. How do you feel?
We'd better talk.
I'm listening.
Not here, Perry'll be calling at six to find out what's happening.
"What's happening." Oh, is that the understatement of the year. Well, so . . . where do you want to . . . talk?
I guess it would be all right if  Lois, now that you know me, I think you ought to know it all.
I want to.
Let's go to my place.
Let's go to my place.
Your place? Maybe I should change, Maybe you should, too.
You did it. You gave it all up for me. I . . . I don't know what to say.
Say you love me.
Clark . . . it doesn't matter . . . we can move . . .
Do you . . . ah . . . want to step outside?
Blood . . . my . . . blood . . .
Let's get you inside . . . .
Maybe we ought to hire a bodyguard from now on.
I don't want a bodyguard. I want the man I fell in love with.
I know that, Lois. And I wish he were here . . .
I have to go back . . .to the Fortress . . .
But what can you do? There's no way now . . .
I have to try, dammit! Something, anything . . .
Don't . . . it's not your fault . . . you didn't know . . .
He knew. I heard him. I just didn't listen.
Hi.
Oh, hi.
Sleep well?
Never closed my eyes.
I know, I know all the arguments, you don't have to tell me. That's what I did all night  I "listened to the voices of reason" till the dawn came up. Do you have any idea what a vile sound it to hear the first bird singing when you've been up night crying?
I'm sorry.
Me too, Oh, I tried to convince myself, believe me, "It's like being married to a doctor," I said. Doctors are practically never at home. The get emergency calls in the middle of the night and their wives manage to live with it. Then a voice said, " could you be a doctor's wife? Or are you too selfish . . . "
You're not selfish at all.
Oh, when it comes to you I am. Not that I don't understand why they all need you. but they can't need you more than I do.
"They?"
Everybody. Everybody else. I'd be buying my little rainbow at the their expense. All the ones who say "Help. Come quick. Now" I know who you'd have to pick.
What else could I do?
Oh, I'm not blaming you. I just know me. I'd be jealous. Jealous of . . . of all humanity. Some rival, huh?
Lois, someday 
Please don't tell me "You'll find somebody else someday." Cause . . . . . . well, you are a pretty hard act to follow, you'll have to admit that. Oh, I'll get by, don't worry about me.
I like worrying about you.
See what happens when I don't have my orange juice? The human body is only a workable, fairly fragile machine when you treat it with the same respect you'd show to  . . . gee . . .
Take it easy. Take a deep breath.
I'm fine. . . . . . What was I talking about? Before?
. . . Superman?. . . . .
Lois, I really don't see why 
Clark, stop feeling so threatened every time you hear his name. Nobody expects you to be what you're not.
I'll try to remember that . . .
Well, you should. Because I appreciate you, too, you know.
You do?
Sure. Especially if you'd be a really terrific guy and bring me a cheeseburger to go 
Everything on it?
Everything on it.
Jimmy, how's the 
Yeah. I'll check.
Anybody been hurt?
So far the hostages are unharmed.
Hostages?
Tourists, about twenty of 'em.
Are you okay?
She'll be fine.
That's what I want to know! By whom? Whom????
Get a hold of yourself, Vera. Nobody else ever will.
I don't kiss.
Oh, right. Well then, just shake hands.
Vulcan is the weather satellite our government put up in orbit to monitor the weather.
But if somebody reprogrammed it, it could do much more.
It could make weather!
Storms! Floods!
Blizzards! Heat waves!
Computers talk to other computers, right?
Somehow your twisted little mind should be able to figure out how to tap into the main computer at the Aerospace Center and reach Vulcan.
She's not his mama either.
Gus Gorman, this is my Psychic Nutritionist.
Someplace where nobody knows him so they can't connect him with us.
Well, Webco has a hundred and twelve subsidiaries and every one of them is tied to our central computer system. How about...hmmmm, someplace small...
You mean...you mean...Vera! Vera! The magnitude of this!!!
Today coffee
TOMORROW THE OIL!
Small potatoes.
We already have a supertanker.
Chicken feed. If Gus Gorman can push the right buttons 
I could have it all! Holy cats! All the oil! All the tankers! All the pumps! The goshdarn world will be out to lunch! No heat, no gassis, this is some nifty idea!
He ruined it! That lousy dogooder, he ruined it.
Don't cry, Bubba.
Nice try, Butch, but it wouldn't be effective against Superman. You'll see! Now that he's pulled this stunt, he'll stick his nose in my oil scheme and ruin that one, too! I've got to get rid of him! I've got to!
How? Shoot him? You know about him and bullets. Not to mention knives, tanks, bombs...
Wait a minute! She's right! Kryptonite. I remember reading about it in an interview with him. Nuts...
What's wrong?
I just remembered the rest. There isn't any more. The only chunk that ever landed on Earth disappeared a couple of years ago. It was in this story in the Daily Planet.
Where did it come from?
The planet Superman came from. Krypton.
So?
So all we've got to do is pick up the garbage. We just have to find our where in Heaven Krypton used to be. Then good old Gus here contacts the Vulcan satellite
Don't you see? Okay, so you didn't kill him. Nobody's perfect. But that stuff we ran up in the lab wasn't a complete failure after all. Right after Gus gave it to him, Superman started to turn into a selfish, ornery, malicious, conniving...
A normal person.
And now that Superman's out of the Nice Guy business...
We can get to work on that oil!
That's it! The last tanker! They're all mine now! All...
Not quite. What is that in the lower right hand corner?
Come on, let's give it a dry run.
Wait for Gus to get here, sis.
Who needs Gus?
He's the only one who can operate this 
Like fish he is. I know enough about computers to put a PHD to shame. Come now, brother dear, you didn't think I was going to let that little man run the show, did you? Gus Gorman telling us what to do  I'd sooner kiss a pig!
He's coming! He's going to hurt me!
Don't bet on it!
Yes! This time we got it right!
It's your genius, pal! You built a machine that can find anybody's weak spot, just like you said.
85,000 dollars.
Missing????
Embezzled, Mr. Webster. Stolen from the firm.
I don't know who. Whom. I can't trace it. In the old days it was simple. We kept books, we had ledgers, we could see what was going in and what was paid out. If somebody wanted to rob you, he'd come in with a gun and say 'stick 'em up." Now they get theses blasted computers to do their dirty work!
My friend, you are yesterday. Whoever pulled this caper is tomorrow.
Now, Vera...uh, Simpson, you know my Staff Dietician?
Hello.
Well, chum? What now? Kiss the 85 thou goodbye? Pay some thief's salary while he thinks up new ways to shake the money tree?
He's bound to slip up sooner or later.
Mr. White, please, it's time for you to draw this month's winning JINGO number. The prize is an allexpenses trip to South America.
Why can't the idiot in Circulation who dreamed up this imbecile contest in the first place 
Because you're the EditorinChief. Your integrity is unquestioned. LOIS I have a question.
53.
53!
Okay? Goodbye.
You've got to pick three more numbers.
Mr. White, the next number, please?
How'm I supposed to turn this thing?
By hand. Like the pioneers did.
Couldn't we just get a computer to do this?
Mr. White, you be in this shot, handing them their plane tickets.
Why do I have to do this?
It's modern. It's uptodate. It's stateofthe art. People, I am in love with this machine. Go ahead, Mr. White.
Where's the handle?
There is no handle! You just push a button.
Ross, honey, it's time for your massage...
Bubba, does this woman have the right to burst in without knocking...!
If you don't mind, we are trying to hold a meeting here!
Why don't you hold your breath, instead? Maybe you'll turn blue. On you that'd be an improvement.
Why stop at coffee! A cup of coffee gets the world off to work in the morning, but what keeps the world working?
Diet soda?
Energy! And when they say "Energy" what do they mean? Nuclear? too dangerous. Solar?? Too underdeveloped.
How would you know?
Hey, I know a lot of things!
So I understand from the graffiti I've seen.
"At a special session of the General Assembly, 178 countries voted to censure Superman. With only Columbia abstaining." ROSS That fella's becoming a public menace.
And he use to be such a sweetie pie! What's wrong with him the last two weeks?
I can't see anything.
Turn on the light.
Where's the light switch?
Where do you usually find a light switch?
Come on, will you? We've got to get ready before he gets here.
Gus?
Superman. The boy you left behind.
You! Activate circuits 29 through W7 and start Full Power Coordinates on Exterior Defensive Systems:
In other words, push this red button.
Oh, Superman!
Cut the mush, Lorelei. He's after our skin!
He can have mine. Anytime.
I can't! It's out of control!
But how? Where's it getting the power from ???!
I thought you'd never get here.
Hey, don't expect me to save you. Because I don't do that anymore.
Don't worry. I'm long past saving.
Well, don't let me keep you from anything.
I'm in no rush. So what do you have in mind?
Lots of things...
Tell me.
I'll do more than tell you. I'll show you, back at my place. If you'll just do me one little favor first.
Okay, what is it? You want a ride?
Never. I get airsick. You wouldn't like that.
No, I don't think I would. So... then what can I do for you?
It isn't much, really, you see, there's this little boat. Well, not so little, really. And it's not going where it's supposed to go and...
I don't know you, lady.
But the other night...
That wasn't me. That guy's gone. And you're next Webster.
The picture looks blurry.
The picture's fine. That's the way she looks in real life.
What terrific story?
Kent's been invited to his highschool class reunion.
Whoopee.
Hey, I'd definitely shoot color on that one, Jimmy. It'd be a crime to just use black and white.
Okay, Kent, call your people and tell them the Prodigal Son is coming home. FAVORING CLARK  Happy now, he turns to leave the office. SHOT LOSES PERRY but we continue to hear his voice, o.s.
Lois, I've got to hand it to you. You're amazing. Who else could manage to turn a threeweek tropical vacation into a front page story that's going to blow the lid off government corruption in the Caribbean?
I just knew I was onto something when that taxi driver kidnapped me.
Ricky? Where...what...
I'd wash that out with some iodine... Okay, Mercurochrome.
Thank ...you.
Anytime.
Oh. I'm Lana Lang. This is Ricky.
We've already met.
And this is... ...Clark. My friend is around here somewhere, I'll just look for...
I'm sorry, I'm in a real hurry. See you around, pal.
You know, I really wasn't expecting all this.
Well...I guess they did get a little carried away.
He was asleep before his head hit the pillow. Well, this was only the biggest day of his life. I really don't know how to thank you.
You just did, with that great dinner.
There's no rush.
But the bridge...
Hey, Don't I always get there in time? Come on, relax.
It's hard to believe... a great looking girl like you all alone like this. As she glances up at him, she is first flustered, then flattered, then...finally...just realistic:
Listen, are you sure you shouldn't do something about the bridge?
The bridge...? I'd better get going!
Who is she?
Her name's Lorelei Ambrosia. She's Webster's Girl Friday.
Who's the other woman?
That's his sister. Vera Webster.
You're amazing, Olsen. A boring banquet and you bring back 3,000 boring pictures. Then Superman puts out a fire on Third Avenue this morning and you stand there and watch the whole thing and you don't take one picture!!
I didn't have my camera with me.
A photographer eats with his camera, A Photographer sleeps with his camera 
All right, Kent. I just hope you know what you're doing. If you really think Smallville is your big chance, go for it.
What about me?
What about you?
A story like this cries out for great human interest pictures. The big dance! The Homecoming Game! Mr. Kent posing next to his old locker!
Why do I have to do this?
You! You're lucky I didn't fire you. I get a chance at exclusive onthespot pictures of the biggest forest fire in history and what does he come back with??? A broken leg and twelve melted rolls of film.
It was hot!
Hey listen, I didn't know your mama was comin' by...
Sister! I'm his sister!
Through the telephone line terminal, that ain't nothin'.
Oh Bubba, think of the possibilities.
What she call you?
You will command the tankers to sail toward a 50mile area in the middle of the Atlantic Ocean.
And do what?
I know, by computers.
Will you stop interrupting ?! You will command the pumps to stop pumping.
How you doing down there?
Don't make me talk, please. I got enough problems just hangin' on.
Hey, you're perfectly safe.
I ain't about to argue with you. What's gonna happen to them three? Ross the boss and those ladies?
That's up to the judge, Gus. It's not your problem anymore.
Watch out for them air pockets!
No, we're just going down.
We gonna crash?
I never crash, Gus. That'd be embarrassing.
We back in Metropolis?
No...I just have a little stop to make.
Whatcha wanna stop here for? Not that I ain't glad to be on the ground, y'understand.
Just a second.
Thanks. Let's go
I was afraid you'd say that. Hey, is there a bus station around here?
Suit yourself, Gus. Say, does your boss use a computer in this operation?
Please, Mr. Webster, you're a great humanitarian. Ain't you heard what it's like in them jails? You send an innocent boy in and he gets thrown in with killers and robbers and rapers and raper killer and robber rapers and...
Mr. Gorman, just answer me one question...
You've been a naughty boy haven't you? C'mon now, admit it, you were kinda naughty.
Uh...yeah. I didn't think of it that way exactly, but...
Say, fella, I understand. I can  what do the kids say these days  "dig where you're comin' from." You want to be rich, right?
Uh...
Now me, I was born rich. I've never worn the same pair of socks twice.
Yeah? What do you do with 'em?
I believe they're laundered and sent to some charitable institution. I don't know what the heck they do with 'em. Maybe they use them for dust rags, or pen wipers...
Or socks.
Yes! That never occurred to me. Her ya go, buddy, singlemalt. Gus, my friend, you're a genius. Okay, a naughty genius, but hell, nobody's perfect.
'Cause I know about getting' them halfcentses?
Gus, Webco, the Webster industrial complex, is a familyowned cartel. A little magnesium here, a little zinc there. Some railroads here, some farm machinery there. You follow?
I'm tryin' to.
Gus, do you know what I want now? I want coffee!
Black or regular?
I don't think you understand.
Man, what is this?
Plants. Plants always make an office cozier.
Under different company names. I control the price of coffee beans in Brazil. The price in Venezuela. Java, South Korea, North Korea, the Aleutian Islands, Guam, Bolivia, and the Republic of Gabon!
Decaffeinated too?
But y'see, chum, the problem I got is that one country just won't play ball with me. You know how that can just bug a guy, don't you?
Which country?
Columbia.
Columbia.
Columbia's got two major exports and one of them's coffee.
Wipe 'em out?
Destroy the entire Colombian coffee crop down to the last bean.
But Mr. Webster...you're doin' okay with Brazil and them other places. What's wrong with just one little old country doin' their own thing?
A very wise man once said...I think it was Attila the Hun... "It's not enough that I succeed. Everyone else must fail." And you are going to do it for me.
Me? How?
Gus, tell me, have you ever heard of Vulcan?
That what they call you?
How do you do that?
Like everything else in the 20th century, Gus. You push buttons.
Always making yourself beautiful for me, aren't you? So, Gus, can you make Vulcan do what I want it to? You didn't answer me, pal. Did you hear about that prison riot last week? It seems they were complaining about rats in the cells...
Yeah, yeah, I can do it.
When?
First question got to be "Where."
What?
Not "What." Don't need a genius to figure out "what." Need a genius to figure out "where." He says I'm a genius, your don  Brother! Bubba! Your Bubba! See, if y'all don't want them to trace it back, you got to punch this in from someplace nobody'd ever think off. Some little rinky dink operation with a little mickey mouse computer. ROSS It's got to be someplace you can sneak into.
Hey, boss.
Just the man I wanted to see!
Turn on the T.V.
I did. isn't it neato?
Uh...what channel were you watching?
What are you talking about, fella?
It ain't. It's nowhere. It blew up. That's how come they shipped the dude to Earth when he was a baby. well. I know some stuff too, y'all.
Wait a second. Astronomers know where the planet used to be, right? And you know what happens when a planet explodes? Debris. Pieces floating in space.
Just hold on a minute. I have been doin' some thinkin'
God, that's what I keep you for.
That's what I been thinkin' about. How you been keepin' me. I ain't getting' nothing outta this gig.
Gus, if there's anything I hate, it's greed.
Greed! Let me tell you something
He sure wasn't actin' bad and nasty that day in Smallville. Man, he was so full of niceness I was startin' to feel funny about layin' that chunk of...
KRYPTONITE!
Huh?
Every oil tanker and super tanker and superdupertanker in the ocean is controlled. totally, by computers. Computers to tell them where to go, how much oil to take on, where to deliver it.
They ain't got captains?
Yes, but they don't really need them. it's just a throw back to some sentimental sea faring baloney.
And do nothing. Just sit there.
Then how's all the people gonna get their oil?
You catch on fast, old buddy. Tell him about the pumps. I know how you love the part about the pumps.
And then shut down the pipe lines.
Pumps stop pumping oil. Pipe lines stop pipin' oil. Tankers stop deliverin' oil. Man, this is high stakes.
Thanks, kiddo. now, listen, this part's important. I want you to program one special command into all these systems. Tell them these orders are irreversible, so it'll be impossible for anybody to switch them back. Can you do that, pal?
Lookit, you're getting' what you want all the time. it ain't right that I don't get somethin'! I never get somethin'!
I knew it, I knew it, go be nice to people and they think they can ask for the moon!
The moon! Listen, man, when I was a little bitty kid all my friends got them electric trains for Christmas. My mama didn't have barely enough to pay the electric bill, let alone buy me no train set.
Now...when do I get a taste?
I should think a taste of freedom is enough, don't you? Or would you prefer jail?
Don't lay that jail number on me no more. You need me out here doin' stuff for you more'n sitten' in no jail doin' nothin' for nobody. 'Sides, I be known' some heavy stuff about you now. You don't want em spillin' the coffee beans.
Is this blackmail?
Don't be getting' racist with me, man.
Is this whitemail?
Fair's fair.
What do you want?
A wastebasket? GUS Those are plans. Blueprints.
For what?
A computer.
We've already got some.
Not like this one you ain't. Nobody in the world got one like this 'cause it don't exist yet. We got to build it.
You designed it?
I invented it, man. In my head. It's a stone killerdiller getdown getiton and twiceonSunday super mutha computer.
What will it do?
Everything.
What will it get me?
Anything.
Tell me more...
Yeah? How's it look?
It looks wonderful. it is wonderful, let's face it.
I told you it wasn't no jive.
Gus, it seems we are talking stateoftheart technology here. We are talking unlimited power. We are talking "getdown hotcha daddyo" whatever you called it.
Stone mutha.
Exactly. Stoned mother.
But a machine this powerful is going to make powerful enemies. People who will want to destroy it.
Ain't nobody gonna mess with my machine! I'll...I'll... what will I do? I'll build in a counterpunch! Anything attacks it gets counter attacked! And wiped out!
Can you do that?
Yeah, sure. Ain't nobody gonna stomp my electric train...
Remember, Gus. A machine doesn't want anything except to keep on being a machine. You've got to make sure it can figure out how to beat any opponent.
Man, all it got to do is find their weak spot. You bet on the machine in any fight you name, you gonna win your bet.
You want to mess with Superman?
Can't wait, pal, can't wait.
Awright. I got me my electric train, mama. I finally got  Hey, what y'all doin' up there?!
Join the party, genius! Come on up!
Sonofagun! Look at this here!
First paycheck?
First ripoff, man! Supposed to be 225 bucks a week! You know what this sucker says?? $143.80! Federal tax! State tax! Social Security tax!
That's so you're still getting some money when you hit 65.
I ain't gonna live that long on $143.80! I want it now, man, while I'm still young and cool.
Actually, it's probably more like $143.80 and onehalf cent. There's always fractions over in a big corporation, but they round it down to the lowest whole number.
What'm I gonna do with half a cent? Buy me a thoroughbred cockroach? Everybody loses them fractions?
They don't actually lose 'em. You can't lose what you never got.
Who gets it, the company?
No, not really. They can't be bothered collecting half a cent from your paycheck anymore than you could.
So where is all them halfcentses?
They're just . . . floating around out there. The computer knows where.
How many sugars?
One. And a half.
Quittin' time, Gus. Comin'?
Uh . . . no, man. I got some work to finish up here.
Workin' overtime? What are you doin', buddy, looking for a raise?
Yeah. A raise . .
Gus?
Say what?
The boss wants to see you.
Say who?
Name?
Gus Gorman.
Ah yes, August Gorman. Have you looked for work this week, Mr. Gorman?
Yeah.
What kind?
Kitchen. . . Technician
Dishwasher? Any luck?
Nope, but 
Mr. Gorman, according to our records you have been unemployed for 36 weeks.
Thirtyfive.
Not counting this week. You secured employment last June as a messenger and were discharged after one day for. . .
They said I lost it on the subway, but it ain't the truth! It was a pickpocket took it!
A television set?
Well, it was one of them little bitty twoinch screen Japanese jobs.
The only other employment you found was in a fastfood joint  which lasted. . . 28 minutes! Well! That's some kind of record. Talk about fast!
Man, them people was crazy! How they 'spect you to learn all that jive on the first day? "Hold the pickle! Hold the lettuce! Extra onions! Special sauce! No special sauce!" Ain't nobody found no meat inside that glop yet.
Mr. Gorman, the city of Metropolis is generous to a fault, but. . .
I know, I'm the fault.
Thirtysix weeks of chronic unemployment, thirtysix weeks of living off the taxes of hardworking citizens. Do you know what you are?
Don't call me a bum! I ain't no bum!
You are, I was about to say, no longer eligible.
What about this week's check?
CLERK +++$+++
It's practically an American ritual, Mr. White! Isn't that so, Jimmy?
I wouldn't know Mr. Kent. Most of the people I went to high school with are still in high school.
But my Uncle Al, on my father's side, he won't eat her stuffing, he says it should be cooked on the outside of the turkey and she puts the stuffing inside the turkey. So my mother told my Aunt Ellen . . . Aunt Ellen's my father's halfsister, I told you that, right?
Mmmmm . . .
The thing is though, my cousin Arnold, Aunt Rosey's Arnold this is, he got mad when Uncle Al insulted his mother's stuffing, so now the problem is 
What's that?
Wow, what a beautiful sunrise!
At one o'clock in the morning?
Keep talking to that state trooper so he doesn't notice where I'm going, okay?
What are you doing?
You know what Mr. White said. A photographer always goes after a story.
Anyway, the reunion's just the hook for the story. What it's really about is how the typical small town's changed in the last fifteen years. how do you like this a title: Can You Go Home Again ?
Say!
Take me, for instance. Going back to middle America after having become a Metropolis sophisticate 
So, Mr. White? Can I go ahead and make my travel arrangements?
Exactly what I was about to ask about me.
You're the best, Lois.
I'd better be. Suddenly I've got competition to keep up with. Your high school reunion article. I though it was terrific. And fascinating. Especially about the girl back home. I'll tell you what, Clark, I'll take you to lunch and you can tell me all about it.
Gee, I'm sorry, Lois. But I've already got a lunch date. With Mr. White's new secretary.
Oh?
Well... Not quite like this.
Mom and I do this all the time.
Mr. Kent! Superman was here!
What!
Do you really know Superman?
We get together sometimes.
Mr. Kent, could I ask you something?
Sure.
Could you get me Superman's autograph?
Hi. Mister Kent. Guess who Mom's having dinner with tonight? Superman!
Actually, that's why I stopped by. He's realy sorry, he wanted to make it, but then he...ran into a problem.
Hi, Lois. Morning, Jimmy, you've got mustard on your lapel. Excuse me, Mr. White, I don't mean to interrupt but 
Please, Kent, not now. I'm trying to put out a newspaper here.
Mr. White, please, I promised those people I'd get back to them by this morning. What do you think?
Look, I don't know, Kent. . . CLARK Personally, I think it could be a terrific story!
I'm getting a cramp in my elbow from this.
Let me do it for you, Mr. White.
 but you deserve the vacation, Lois.
Oh. You're going away.
Uh...excuse me, folks...
Kent!
I'm sorry, Mr. White, but I've got an errand to run.
Lana Lang. How great to see you.
Clark.
You look wonderful.
You always did. Can I give you a hand with that?
You shouldn't say that, you're the chairman  ...uh, chairperson...
And here I am, just standing here. That's terrible. Thank you.
You're welcome...??
For reminding me, I mean. Can you follow me?
I can't Clark already asked me. Didn't you? He used to love this song. Didn't you? So he just said  "Would you dance with me?"
Sure, Lana, I'd love to.
You'd be surprised how many offers I didn't get. Even Brad wouldn't stick around for this. It really isn't easy.
The streamers? They're no problem, you just pull on them and 
And three years after the Royal Wedding, the King abdicated. Isn't that terrible?
It sure is.
There must be a gallon of potato salad left over.
You know what's the problem?
Too much mayonnaise?
Mayonnaise? Donald loved mayonnaise. Why would you think that was the problem.?
I didn't 
No, the problem is  Why do I stay in Smallville? Believe me, I've asked myself the same question. Do you know how lucky you are to live in Metropolis? The Big Apricot.
But Lana, you could 
That's easy to say. But how? And what about Ricky?
Who?
Ricky. My little boy. At least here we've got a house. and I've got a job. Okay, I'm only a secretary, oaky, but it pays the bills. Except for last winter when the fuel bills kept going up and up and up. I even had to pawn my diamond ring then.
You...um...you never got married?
Oh...I came close once.
That song. I remember one day I came into the music room and you were fooling around at the piano. And I thought  what am I going to do with all this potato salad?
You thought that?
I thought "Clark Kent has a really nice voice." You didn't even know I was there.
I just can't stand this.
Hey, he'll be all right. Believe me Lana, I know. I was a late bloomer myself.
It isn't only that he's small for his age. how would you like to be the only kid in town without a father? Look at him, he's stewed to the gills in the middle of the afternoon.
But all he had was chocolate milk.
I mean him.
Gee, I haven't done this in years.
Some people don't think it's healthy.
Well, it's true you have to be careful things don't spoil, especially with mayonnaise or cream.
Clark, I think you worry too much about mayonnaise.
Me??
I'm talking about salt. Oh, go ahead, pour it on, relax. That's what picnics are for.
And even nicer when there's a man around, Which isn't all that often.
There's a lot of choices here.
No, all the good ones are married. That's why Brad thinks he's God's gift to women. This woman anyway. He's single. He won't take no for an answer, but he's the only one who's asking. And he knows it.
I meant all the choices here. All this   cole slaw, guacamole  This is some picnic!
Peanut butter and jelly.
No, thanks.
No, I mean Ricky. He's not interested in any of this stuff.
Well, this pate is rather...unusual.
Pate? What pate? I didn't make any  Oh, no, Clark. That's Buster's dog food.
Gee, I haven't laughed like that since  since  I really can't remember when.
Me neither...
So...how much longer do you think you'll be in Smallville 
You know, I was just thinking, Lana   someone like you could do do really well in Metropolis 
I can never get a way from it.
Old ties are hard to cut.
No. I mean, yes they are, but I was talking about that. Wheat King. Bet your bottom dollar that's a Wheat King thresher.
That's the biggest change in Smallville, you know. They've taken over this town. Everybody who isn't actually working for Wheat King  like I do  is out there  on a Wheat King thresher. Do you think I could do it? Do you?
Ride a thresher? Well, I don't know. Girls are trying just about everything now but 
No, what you said before, Could I make it in Metropolis? I've dreamed about it, sure, but I never really thought about it. What would I do when I got there?
Call me.
Oh, I wouldn't want to  I mean, I'd want to, but I wouldn't want to...be a nuisance to you.
The dog's always doing that. And the car's always doing that.
Can I help?
He really was!
Uhhuh.
Well, aren't you excited?
Lana, I'm from Metropolis. I see Superman every day.
Gee, I always loved porch swings.
Me too. That's why I put this one up.
No, well in this case I think I can speak for him. I mean, I'm pretty close to him, you know. Superman will be there on Wednesday.
Well, he's going to get the best homecooked meal he's had in... in a long time. You tell Superman we think he's wonderful.
I guess he misses a lot of dinners.
But if you wouldn't mind settling for me 
Anyday...
Here I am, honey, and I'm all yours. Remember when you were Queen of the Prom? All the guys had to wait in line to get a dance. But now there's only one name on your dance card, sweet thing, and it's 
Brad Wilson.
Hiya, Kent, long time no see. Not that you ever could. "See" I mean, Hahaha!
Hiya, sweet thing. Little guy's getting' hassled, huh? Kent, you still here?
I seem to be.
All the kid needs is a couple of pointers from the ol' champ here. Kent, I bet you didn't know I won the allcountry bowling trophy two years in a row.
Uh, no, I didn't know that, Brad.
A natural athlete can play any sport. Any sport.
Say, Brad. I think he'll be better off doing it his way.
For a guy who was lucky to be waterboy on the high school team, you sure got a big mouth, Kent.
I just think Ricky would rather not get a bowling lesson in front of the other kids.
The kid needs a man to show him 
The kid will do fine on his own. Give it your best shot, Ricky!
Yeah? What do you want?
Buddy, are we in trouble.
What?
First the supplier couldn't find the invoice. Then the order came up short. Then I missed the four o'clock plane from Cleveland and had to rent a car, and then I got a darn flat tire on the highway! Can you beat it? Boy, your boss must've been furious when I didn't show up by the end of the day today, huh?
What are you talkin' about?
Good lord, fella! I'm talking about your boss.
Mr. Roebush?
Roebush! That's the guy! Buddy, he's gonna nail our behinds to the wall! this is Special Order! He said he had to have it before... Omigod!! What's tomorrow?
Tuesday.
TUESDAY! I got to get it all set up in his office tonight before all those big shots come here tomorrow for the meeting!!
S'not bad, s'very good, but... y'know what's wrong with this... Singapore...thing?
Sling. Singapore Sling. What's wrong?
Not enough vodka in it.
There's no vodka in it.
Aha! What'd I tell ya!
What? What did you tell me?
Got vodka in it now. Gotta give it a new name. Hey, listen, you thought it up, we'll name it after you. What's your name?
Brad.
Brad is not a good name for a cocktail.
Hey! Y'know what they used to call me in high school?
Brad?
No, no, on the football field. They called me... ...The Smallville Flash.
Hey, man, that's a great name for a cocktail!
Man, you don't never pass out, do ya?
Nope. Never.
What is this place?
This is the Phantom Zone. But why did you come here from Argo City?
I was on Earth...
Earth? You crossed the dimension barrier? By yourself?
Yes. I went there to find the lost Power Source...
Shouldnt've done that.
...but the person who has it. tricked me, and sent me to the Phantom Zone.
It's dangerous to use a Power Source on Earth. It can unleash all sorts of terrible forces
I know.
Well, nothing we can do about it. Come into my house. You can stay with me, until I build you your own place. I expect you won't want to mix with the others not our type of people.
Others?
Criminals.
...mid pleasures and palaces though I may roam..."
What? Palace? Hardly.
Just feels, a little, like a tiny bit of Argo City...
It's lovely. . .
No, no. Not lovely. 'Perfect'. Did everything just right. Nobody telling you to change this, move that around. Please yourself. That's the secret of happiness.
Are you happy, Zaltar?
What kind of a question is that? Of course: I am. I do whatever I want. All the time.
But what about other people? Don't you miss them?
You look at them? How?
The Phantom Zone overlooks everywhere.. If you have the right tools.
That horrible woman!
Told you. Wouldn't listen to me. Knew it would make you sad.
Zaltar, please help me.
Of course, my dear. What can I do?
Help me to get back to Earth. Where my friends are. They need me.
There's no way out of the Zone. No one's ever escaped. That's why they send the criminals here.
If there's a way in, there must be a way out.
No, that's not truethere's well...no
There is a way.
I knew it!
But it's impossible.
Why?
No, it wouldn't work, you couldn't, it's too if it didn't work you'd be swept into a singularity no, you'd never make it. Forget I mentioned it.
Then teach me how.
No, it's no goodyou can't practice you only get one go. A thing like that. No. Sure you don't want a sip of this? It's delicious, I think.
Takes a long time, you know, learning the wand. Just begun to understand it myse1f. Give things a kind of lifecan also take away life; works backwards too. Besides I can't let you take my wand. Only have the one, what would I do? I'd be helpless. It's out of the question.
Then come with me.
Leave the zone? What would I do on Earth?
You could do anything. You could sculpt mountain ranges...draw with rainbows! You'd have superpowers.
Superpowers. Got you in a lot of trouble, didn't they?
Please. I have to get back to Earth. My friends are in trouble. And unless I bring back the Power Source, Argo City will die.
You're going to take me back?
Going to try. Didn't say I could.
I heard my mother ask you once "how could a man with such a selfish heart create beauty?" She was wrong, Zaltar, you have a generous heart.
Not doing this for you. Just sick of this place, that's all. Wretched singing sculptures, always yowling at you. Boring!
You can use the wand.
Better than when I was a child.
What's that? Never saw anything like that.
Don't stop. Keep moving.
Yes, mustn't stop.
It's Selena. I'm getting so I can recognise her work.
Zaltar. Use the wand!
Too late. Too late. Save yourself.
Goodbye...
Zaltar!
That was meant for me!
Thank you. I'm going to close this up again.
Who are you ?
I am Selena. Give him to me. Now. Or you'll both be sorry.
I don't scare that easily.
That ought to keep you out of my hair for a while.
A cheap trick.
Cheap but effective.
The Danvers. And two of your little friends.
It's just one more crime you'll have to pay for.
You've run out of things to throw, Selena.
Not yet.
I'm free. I can never thank you enough.
For what?
Ever since I found that thing I've been like a prisoner in a terrible nightmare. You have no idea how awful it is to be mean all the time.
Your nightmares are over. I'm taking this back to Argo City where it won't be misused. You could come too. It might be safer for you.
What's it like?
It's the most beautiful place in the universe.
Sounds O.K. to me. Let's go.
Where is inner space?
It's everywhere. But water is always the door.
They'll be grateful. If you hadn't found it, it would still be lost. Look, up ahead.
Yes, I see it. Shining like a jewel.
That's home.
Cheer up, Nigel. It's not the end of the world.
It may well be. I know how you won that election Selena. You can't fool me.
I have plans Nigel. You could come with me... I'm going places.
You're not going anywhere. Except back to nowheresville. You're too impatient, Selena. Look around youall these people have served years and years of apprenticeship. Some of their families have been in the Craft for generations. You can't join and take over our whole organization in a few months.
I just did. Because I have the Power.
You're going to pay a terrible price. The power of Shadow is tricky. Use it too much and it takes over.
Bianca's taught me all! need to know. I'll be safe, as long as I don't go too far.
Cigarette?
Nigel, get out of here. And don't come slithering back. Nigel shakes his head.
You need me, Selena. I'm the only one who can save you from a terrible fate.
I need you like an Eskimo needs a lawnmower. Now burn rubber.
Balefire on you, Selena!
You Scorpios can never take a joke.
You think you are on top now. Well there is someone coming to challenge you. I saw it in the cards this morning.
Throw him out.
Nigel, get lost.
I have to talk to you.
You're wasting your breath.
You used to listen to me. When you asked me to teach you something of the Craft.
I could teach you a thing or two now.
...trust the wisdom of the ancients, trust the Great Mother to protect us... Why. are you staring at me like that?
I was just thinking, if I had your skin problems, I'd use a good tannisroot ointment. Every night.
Nothing's wrong with my skin.
Such a shame. You ought to take better care of yourself.
You better have a pretty good explanation for this, Selena.
We are in great danger. A being has come to Earth with powers far beyond those of anyone member of the Craft.
Which of you is willing to make that sacrifice?
You would! You revealed our existence so you could have all of our power.
Maybe you'd like to get rid of this Supergirl yourself, Nigel?
Why get rid of her at al1? You've used the Coffer of Shadow too much. It is beginning to rule your heart.
Nonsense.
Don't you believe in knocking?
Oh, yes. Knocking. The preentry signal. I forgot.
What can I do for you?
I'm Linda Lee.
I mean, it would probably be there, if you received it.
Here it is. Oh...of course. You're the orphan. I'm so sorry about your parents. We'll try to make you happy here.
No plans for the weekend, Linda?
No, MR. Danvers.
Can't have you moping around the campus. Why don't you come home with us for dinner?
I'd love to.
Thank you both so much. It was a lovely lunch, Mrs. Danvers. I had a wonderful time. And you're a terrific chess player MR. Danvers.
What? Me?
Sure. Mate in five moves.
I can do that.
No sweat. When's the rest of your stuff arriving?
There isn't any.
This is all your clothes?
I have money to buy more, but I haven't had a chance since...
Since what?? Did you have a fire at your house or something?
I'd rather not talk about it.
You're not...an orphan are you?
My cousin Clark is my only relative on Earth.
Oh wow, I should've known. Me and my big mouth. Listen, you can borrow any of my clothes you want. Any time.
Thank you. You're very kind.
She did that deliberately.
She's a beast.
How'd you do that?
Must've been a defective puck.
Keep an eye peeled for Myra. She's out to get you.
But what for?
She just hates anybody who isn't afraid of her.
Your hair looks the same.
It was just a trim.
No thanks. You go on.
You sure?
Linda babes! There's this allnight party at Eddie's... his folks are away...
Oh, I don't know. I'm not signed out for an overnight.
Go back, sign in, and climb out the bathroom window. McCloskey's always zonked out: she'll never hear you.
It doesn't seem right.
Please, as a favour to me? So I won't be the only girl?
Why is he acting so strangely?
I dunno, but he's gonna get creamed.
Lucy; come back!
Somebody's gotta do something!!
I'm afraid I have some bad news about your car.
Mr. Danvers called. I'll get a new one with the insurance money. B.F.D.
Listen, I know I've been saying you ought party more, but keep your hands off this one, will yak? He's private property. I've been waiting years for him to develop.
He's nice.
Nice? He's cute enough to melt lead!
You're not gonna stay for the ice cream?
I have to get back. I'm having dinner with the Danvers.
Again? You're getting real tight with them. You're gonna be a straightA studentjust kidding, thanks for coming.
What are you making:
It's going to be a tree, I think.
What's a tree?
It's something they have on Earth. You know, where your cousin went.
Where is Earth?
Didn't you study sixdimensional geometry in school?
Yes, I know the equationsI just can't see it in my head.
Even I have trouble with that sometimes. Earth is in outer space. And we're in inner space.
I don't understand.
Wait till you're older. Here  watch this.
You see, a tree is a living thing.
Can you create life?
I'm sorry... I didn't know.
It was my fault. You aren't old enough to use the wand. I shouldn't have given it to you.
I am almost an adult. This is what I want.
But Kara, no one has ever gone from here to Earth. The journey is dangerous.
It was my fault we lost the Power Source.
Years ago. And it was Zaltar who stole it.
I allowed it to escape the City.
Superman will return it.
Why haven't you been able to contact him? He should have returned from the neutron galaxy ages ago. He may be dead. ZOREL But what can you, a mere girl
Be brave, my .daughter. Be wise.
As brave as my father. As wise.
Oh, Jimmy, can't you forget about your career for one second?
 Planet. I mean, you were there. Do you think it was natural, or like some people are claiming, supernatural?
Jimmy, would you please put those poor flowers in water before they die?
Oh, sure.
I had to dump the papers in a trashcan. The Danvers have been arrested!
How do you know?
I saw them dragged out of the Administration Building.
Did anybody notice you?
I can't help it if men notice me.
Lucy! Be serious. We could be executed for treason!
I sure wish Superman was around. He wouldn't let any of this go on. Not for one minute.
I wish they'd tell us what they're going to do with us.
I heard stories. I don't think you wanna know.
I've been in love with you for years. Remember how you used to visit your sister in the newsroom? And put your fingerprints on my lens.
Remember? I was trying desperately to get you're attention.
You were? You mean we could've been... youknowwhat... all this time?
You bet your ass.
Why didn't you tell me?
You're supposed to guess.
Nice to meet you. Lucy's told me all about you. Your cousin Clark taught me everything I know about the newspaper business.
Nice to meet you.
Do you have any theories about last night?
Theories?
How Lucy and that guy got to the hospital. And all that damage at the school. The police are calling it a freak tornado. I'd like to interview you for the Daily 
I believe there's a rational explanation for everything. But I don't know what it is.
Can I quote you?
Where is your cousin Clark, by the way?
He's off doing a top secret uh, investigation.
I knew it ! He's working on a hot scoop !
Gosh, what do you suppose .that is?
Well, Lucy, it's nice to see you're feeling better. Nice to meet you, Jimmy.
Can I give you a lift?
Oh, no thanks.
It's no trouble. I'd like to ask you some more questions.
Someone's chasing him.
Sayyou think that's the same guy who was in the accident with Lucy?
Yes.
The scoop of the year!
You sure are a good cook, Selena. Man, that looks too pretty to eat.
Better eat it quick. It won't look too pretty when it's all covered with ants.
Selena, I've been thinking. It's time I settled downand I don't know a nicer lady to settle down with than you.
Why George, are you proposing?
Marry me, Selena. The hardware store doesn't bring in much now, but...
GeorgeI thought you'd never ask.
Hey, where you going?
I've got things to do.
What about my proposal?
Call me next week. Maybe we can have lunch.
Finished your estimate?
Well, there's several ways to go .
Come in, have a drink, we'll talk.
You must be very popular in the neighborhood. I always see your truck parked around.
I have a lot of repeat business. People seem to like my service.
I bet they do.
What's that big black scar on the ground? Like a fire.
Oh, you know how parties are. Always some damage.
What is it?
A passionfruit smoothee.
Well, just one.
To us. And to the seeds we'll plant together.
I'll drink to that.
Oh no, not you again.
What an adorable hat.
They think I have a concussion.
And you think you're in love.
I know it.
This "love" of yours will soon wear off. I gave you a temporary love potion.
Why should I believe you?
It's the truth. In twentyfour hours you'll forget all about that girl.
Yes, yes I saw the whole thing. How could you be interested in that puny little girl?
But she is real, it wasn't just a concussion.
Forget her, you're mine. I saw you first.
Nurse! Nurse!
You can't escape from me that easily. I'm afraid you don't know who I am.
Nurse!
Don't think I'm weak, just because I'm a woman. I have Power. Give in, stop fighting me, Ethan. I always get what I want.
Nurse! Help !
This is your problem, right here. This girl's driving you insane, Ethan. Let me help you.
I don't want your help.
Come back to my house. My car's outside.
No!
I never met a man I couldn't haveand you're no different from the rest!
I'm wise to your tricks, lady.
I could force you.
If that worked, you would've done it already. No, you want me to drink it of my own free will. Well let me tell you, sweetheart, it'll be a cold day in hell before I fall for that one again.
Go on, talk big! I'll soon have you purring like a kitten.
You've been without water for a whole day. Let's see how thirsty you get in a week.
You vicious
Careful, don't make me angry. I start fires when I'm angry.
They want me. Doesn't it make you proud?
Yeah.
Guess! Go on.
I don't know. You seem afraid.
You're a regular Einstein, aren't you?
Supergirl?
You can't put her out of your mind, is that it?
Well...I guess I can't.
I'm ready for her. I'll show you.
Why the empty cage?
That one was for you. But I thought I'd wait and see how you behave when Supergirl gets here. I'd hate to lose you, Ethan.
Hey! Ethan!
Hmmm?
Remember me? We were in a disaster together.
A little.
Can you get us out? It's all a misunderstanding. We thought they were selling hamburgers in that place.
I'll mention it upstairs.
Hey, I thought you were gonna mention us upstairs.
I did.
Well thanks a pile, fella.
Wait...don't leave me in here...
It's for your own protection.
What's happening?
I'm taking you to the hospital.
Let me out. I have to talk to you.
Later.
Don't leave me.
I have to.
When can I see, you again ?
Relax. Tomorrow this will all seem like a bad dream. Goodbye.
You're alive! She didn't kill you!
Who didn't?
That woman who's after me. She hates you. Because she knows I love you.
You love me?
My angel. My goddess. I feel I've always loved you all my life. I'll die if I can't spend the rest of my life just looking at you, holding you in my arms...
We have to have a long talk about all this.
I know just the place. Hang a left at the Amalgamated Tower.
This is my favourite place in the city.
Are you sure it's all right for us to be here?
They don't care, they're tearing it down for a shopping centre.
Like it?
Yes. It reminds me of home.
Where Superman's from? Krypton?
No. Argo City. It was on a chunk of rock that was part of Krypton oncebut we moved it to inner space.
I'm sorry, I don't understand.
It's not important. The important thing is I'm here to find something and I think you can he1p me.
Come on, let's ride.
I used to work here summers when I was a kid.
Ethan, tell me more about this woman who's after you.
Let's talk about us, not her.
Tell me where I can find her.
I don't want you to go near her. She's bad news.
But be reasonable. If I don't do something to stop her she'll try again. And maybe hurt you.
I'll be safe with you. We can stay together the rest of our lives.
We can't do that.
Why not ?
We're from different worlds.
Just give me a chance to show how much I love you. Love changes everything. Love makes everything possib1e.
All this talk about love, it's silly.
You don't like me? You hate me?
Of Course I don't hate you. I don't hate anyone.
What do you feel about me?
There's one sure way to find out how you feel.
What's that?
Let me kiss you.
No.
You're not afraid are you?
Of course not, but...there are things we don't understand.
If we wait until we understand everything we'll be dead. Come on. You can learn more from one kiss than from years in school.
Well...I guess one is all right.
Is this how?
Terrific.
I thought I'd show you one of my favourite places.
It's paradise . We could be very happy here.
But I have to go back. I brought you here so you'd be safe. From her.
You can't just abandon me. Alone.
Great! I'II build a house right over there, with a veranda looking out to sea. And I'll plant a garden! Papayas, pineapples, bananas, mangoes anything'll grow here. And I'II fish in the lagoon, and we can go sailing in a dugout canoe, and
Ethanwhen I said 'a while' I meant a couple of hours.
She said it wouldn't last.
What wouldn't last? What's the matter with you?
I don't love you any more.
Just like that?
Like turning off a light.
Away. From you.
But why?
Because you remind me of all the dumb things I said.
I sort of like what you said.
That makes it worse.
But I don't understand.
Hi.
Hello. Are you still mad at me?
I'm not mad at you.
It seemed that way to me.
I know I was acting funnyI'm sorry. It's just...I miss it.
Miss what?
What I had before. What's not there now. It's like I woke up and found part of me wasn't there any more: something that made me feel really alive and aware of things. It was like, for the first time in my life, everything fitted together perfectlyyou and me and the world around uslike we were a wonderful song...
And now?
And now...the guitars are out of tune, and the words don't make sense, and somebody unplugged the mike...
You think so?
I don't see why not.
But what ifit wasn't real?
Feelings are real. Once you've had them, they're yours forever.
Hey, listen, when all this blows over, maybe we could get together every now and then and see each other. And maybe something might. happen again. What do you think?
Are you asking me for a "date"?
Why not? You're a goodlooking girl. And I'm available.
Aren't you forgetting about Selena?
She'll forget about us eventually.
There's something very dangerous about her. Something evil...
I know what it is. She has this lead container shaped like a gargoyle. Inside there's a silvery ring...
That's the Power Source that was lost from Argo City! That's what I came: to find! Where does she live?
In this big old house on Orchard Avenuebut you better stay away from there.
I can see through walls. I could surprise her. The only thing I can't see through is lead, that's why I didn't see the Power Source at the amusement park.
Wait. Don't leave me.
You'll be safe here. I'll come back as soon as I have the Power Source.
Before you go...
What?
Just one kiss. For old times' sake.
And you can see how you feel about me, right?
Yes.
You've had your fun, Selena, the game is over.
She has hostages.
It's her shadowself! Her dark side!
How do I fight it?
Turn it against her.
No thanks. I have friends in the resistance. They'll vouch for me. I figure I might get a million bucks for my memoirs.
I'll come back as soon as I can.
She's right. They'll string her up.
Do you want to come to Argo City?
I don't want much, Selena. I have simple tastes.
What do you want?
Western Europe.
I'm sorry, but I already promised Bianca she could have Switzerland. You know how she loves to ski.
No problem. She can have it. I hate mountains.
Is this Nigel's doing?
It's a warning, that's for sure.
Maybe it was just an accident.
There's no such thing as an accident. Everything has meaning, if you can read the signs.
I said stop, I didn't say run into a brick wall.
What is it?
The Coffer of Shadow. Look at it.
What does it mean?
The danger. The one Nigel spoke of. It must be near .
Oh, fiddlesticks. What could be dangerous about a baseball game?
Softball.
It must be the girls. One of the girls.
But which one?
Drive on. We have already attracted enough attention.
We'll bide our time and keep watch. Young girls just can't keep a secret. If one of them's up to somethingwe'll find out.
And then, like great catswe pounce! And destroy!
Bianca, try not to be so bloodthirsty when you're at the wheel. OK?
Sorry, mistress.
Is he your entertainment for tonight?
He will be. In about five minutes.
Have fun.
I came as quickly as I could. What is the danger?
It's what we were warned about.
A Storm Dragon?
No, a super girl.
Why did she have to show up now?
Eliminate her.
That's easy for you to say, Bianca.
You can do it. You're the most powerful woman on Earth.
Am I? Still?
Yes! You own the Coffer of Shadow. Nothing can withstand its power.
I've been saving it. For the right moment.
That moment is now! What good is a sword unless it be unsheathed? Use it, and no one will dare oppose you again. No one.
What do I do? I don't know her name.
The Naming of Names is not necessary. Just concentrate on her face. Your Shadow will do the rest.
Next time, remind me to do this out in the yard.
Yes, of course, it was foolish of me.
I think I'd better keep it.
Whatever you say.
Yes. Whatever I say. From now on.
Home?
No way. I'm not going to let that little hussy make a monkey out of me.
Is it her that's bothering youor your gardener?
Sure glad you didn't let make a monkey of you.
Shut up, and get me a hacksaw.
I don't feel like it right now.
She didn't take it from you, did she?
That little girl? Ha. Now go on, get me some tools.
There's no need. I learned the Craft from my grandmother.
At last. Ultimate Power.
And the first thing we do is get rid of Supergirl!
What do you mean we?
You and your husband have been kind to me, Alura. I have something to tell you: I'm going away. Soon.
But where?
I've discovered a new way into the Phantom Zone.
But the phantom Zone is for criminals.
It's big. And empty. I'm tired of limiting myself to Argo City. I want to do something new. I'm starting to repeat myself here with this airy, glittery stuff....
I'm an artist, Alura. My work comes first. Other people come second.
How can you create beauty...with a selfish heart? The spiky insectcreature flies closer and closer around the little girl's head, buzzing angrily. Her look of delight turns to fear. She tries to shoo the creature away. It flies off toward the thin membrane that encloses the city.
But the Power Source, Zaltar.
It couldn't be helped. The city will have to make do with three.
But what will happen?
The Guardians will be angry. They may even send me to the Phantom Zone. You see, I didn't really have permission to borrow it. I must go explain to them...
Bring something to drink.
Yes. Madame.
Wait a minute. I want you to get out the car. You're going to take the script over to Paramount and deliver it to Mr. De Mille in person.
Yes, Madame.
Madame is wanted on the telephone.
You know better than to interrupt me.
Paramount is calling.
Who?
Paramount studios.
Now, now do you belive me? I told you deMille would jump at it.
It is not Mr. deMille in person. It is someone by the name or Gordon Cole. He says it's very important.
Certainly it's important. It's important enough for Mr. deMille to call me personally. The idea of having an assistant call me!
I myself was surprised at Mr. de Mille's manners.
Say that I'm busy, and hang up.
Very good, Madam.
If you will pardon me, Madame. The shadow over the left eye is not quite balanced.
Thank you, Max.
Cameras? ...What is it, Max?
The cameras have arrived, Madame.
They have? Thank you, Max. Tell Mr. DeMille I will be on the set at once.
What is the scene? Where am I?
This is the staircase of the palace.
Oh, yes, yes. They're below, waiting for the Princess ... I'm ready.
All right. Camera! Action!
You do not deny having killed this man, Miss Desmond?
Did you intend to kill him? Just answer me that.
Was it a sudden quarrel? Had there been any trouble between you before?
If it was a quarrel, how come you had the gun right there?
This guy  where did you meet him for the first time? Where did he come from? Who is he?
Did he have a wife? Did he had a girl friend? Did you know them?
Had he been trying to blackmail you?
Did the deceased ever threaten you? Were you in fear of bodily injury?
Did you hate him? Had you ever thought of doing something like this before?
Was theft involved? Did you catch him trying to steal something, or find he had stolen something?
Well, it's one way to get her down stairs.
Okay. And let's have the car right outside.
So you need three hundred dollars? Of course, I could give you three hundred dollars. Only I'm not going to.
No?
Gillis, get this through your head. I'm not just your agent. It's not the ten per cent. I'm your friend.
How's that about your being my friend?
Don't you know the finest things in the world have been written on an empty stomach? Once a talent like yours gets into that Mocambo Romanoff rut, you're through.
Forget Romanoff's. It's the car I'm talking about. If I lose my car it's like having my legs out off.
Greatest thing that could happen to you. Now you'll have to sit behind that typewriter. Now you'll have to write.
What do you think I've been doing? I need three hundred dollars.
Maybe what you need is another agent.
All right, Gillis. You've got five minutes. What's your story about?
It's about a ball player, a rookie shortstop that's batting 347. The poor kid was once mixed up in a hold up. But he's trying to go straight  except there's a bunch of gamblers who won't let him.
So they tell the kid to throw the World Series, or else, huh?
More or less. Only for the end I've got a gimmick that's real good.
Got a title?
Bases Loaded. There's a 4Opage outline.
Get the Readers' Department and see what they have on Bases Loaded.
Oh, you're one of the message kids. Just a story won't do. You'd have turned down Gone With the Wind.
No, that was me. I said, Who wants to see a Civil War picture?
Well, seems like Zanuck's got himself a baseball picture.
Mr. Sheldrake, I don't want you to think I thought this was going to win any Academy Award.
Of course, we're always looking for a Betty Hutton. Do you see it as a Betty Hutton?
Frankly, no.
Now wait a minute. If we made it a girls' softball team, put in a few numbers. Might make a cute musical: It Happened in the Bull Pen  the story of a Woman.
You trying to be funny?  because I'm all out of laughs. I'm over a barrel and I need a job.
Sure, Gillis. If something should come along 
Along is no good. I need it now.
Haven't got a thing.
Any kind of assignment. Additional Dialogue.
There's nothing, Gillis. Not even if you were a relative.
Look, Mr. Sheldrake, could you let me have three hundred bucks yourself, as a personal loan?
Could I? Gillis, last year some body talked me into buying a ranch in the valley. So I borrowed money from the bank so I could pay for the ranch. This year I had to mortgage the ranch so I could keep up my life insurance so I could borrow on the insurance so I could pay my income tax. Now if Dewey had been elected 
Goodbye, Mr. Sheldrake.
Joseph C. Gillis?
That's right.
We've come for the car.
What car?
Relax, fans. The car isn't here.
Is that So?
I lent it to a friend of mine. He took it up to Palm Springs.
Had to get away for his health, I suppose.
You don't believe me? Look in the garage.
Sure we believe you, only now we want you to believe us. That car better be back here by noon tomorrow, or there's going to be fireworks.
You say the cutest things.
I just put my car in the garage. I had a blowout. I thought 
Go on in.
Look, maybe I'd better take my car 
Wipe your feet!
You are not dressed properly.
Dressed for what?
Suppose you listen just for a minute 
Madame is waiting.
For me? Okay.
I made your bed this afternoon.
Thanks. How did you know I was going to stay, this afternoon?
This room has not been used for a long time.
It will never make house Beautiful. I guess it's O.K. for one night.
There is the bathroom. I put in soap and a toothbrush.
Thanks. Say, she's quite a character, that Norma Desmond.
She was the greatest. You wouldn't know. You are too young. In one week she got seventeen thousand fan letters. Men would bribe her mani curist to get clippings from her fingernails. There was a Maharajah who came all the way from Hyderabad to get one of her stockings. Later, he strangled himself with it.
I sure turned into an interesting driveway.
You did, sir. GILLIS' VOICE He goes out. Gillis I pegged him as slightly looks after him, hangs cuckoo, too. A stroke maybe. his coat over a chair, Come to think of it, the walks over to the win whole place seemed to have dow, pulls down the been stricken with a kind of rickety Venetian blind. creeping paralysis, out of As he does so, he looks beat with the rest of the down at: world, crumbling apart in slow motion ...
I'm talking to you. My clothes and things are up in the room.
Naturally. I brought them myself.
Is that so!
Why are you so upset? Is there anything missing?
Who said you could? Who asked you to?
Some men are here. They asked for you.
I'm not here.
That's what I told them.
Good.
They found your car in the garage. They are going to tow it away.
Whose room was this?
It was the room of the husband. Or of the husbands, I should say. Madame has been married three times.
Hey, what's this with the door? There isn't any lock.
There are no locks anywhere in this house.
How come?
The doctor suggested it.
What doctor?
Madame's doctor. She has moments of melancholy. There have been some suicide attempts.
Uhhuh?
We have to be very careful. No sleeping pills, no razor blades. We shut off the gas in her bed room.
Why? Her career? She got enough out of it. She's not forgotten. She still gets those fan letters.
I wouldn't look too closely at the postmarks.
You send them. Is that it, Max?
I'd better press your evening clothes, sir. You have not for gotten Madame's New Year's party.
No, I haven't. I suppose all the waxworks are coming?
I don't know, sir. Madame made the arrangements.
How is she?
She is upstairs.
Mr. Gillis, if you please.
Right with you.
You see those offices there, Mr. Gillis? They used to be her dressing room, The whole row.
That didn't leave much for Wallace Reid.
He had a great big bungalow on wheels. I had the upstairs. See where it says 'Readers' Department'? I remember my walls were covered with black patent leather...
What's the matter, Max?
I just found out why all those tele phone calls. It is not Miss Desmond they want. It is the car they want to rent.
What?
What is it, Max? Want to wash the car, or are you doing a little spying in your off hours?
You must be very careful as you cross the patio. Madame may be watching.
How about my going up the kitchen stairs and undressing in the dark. Will that do it?
I'm not inquiring where Mr. Gillis goes every night...
Why don't you? I'm writing a script and I'm dying to finish it, no matter what.
It's just that I'm very worried about Madame.
Sure you are. And we're not help ing her any, feeding her lies and more lies. Getting herself ready for a pioture ... What happens when she finds out?
She never will. That is my job. It has been for a long time. You must understand I discovered her when she was eighteen. I made her a star. I cannot let her be destroyed.
You made her a star?
I directed all her early pictures. There were three young directors who showed promise in those days: D.W. Grirrith, C.B. deMille, and Max von Mayerling.
And she's turned you into a servant.
It was I who asked to come back, humiliating as it may seem. I could have gone on witn my career, only I found everything unendur able arter she divorced me. You see, I was her rirst husband.
I wouldn't know.
I don't care anyway. I want the coffin to be white. And I want it specially lined with satin. White, or deep pink.
How much will it be? I warn you  don't give me a fancy price just because I'm rich.
Lady. you've got the wrong man.
I had some trouble with my car. Flat tire. I pulled into your garage till I could get a spare. I thought this was an empty house.
It is not. Get out.
I'm sorry, and I'm sorry you lost your friend, and I don't think red is the right color.
Get out.
Sure. Wait a minute  haven't I seen you  ?
Or shall I call my servant?
I know your face. You're Norma Desmond. You used to be in pictures. You used to be big.
I am big. It's the pictures that got small.
I knew there was something wrong with them.
They're dead. They're finished. There was a time when this busi ness had the eyes of the whole wide world. But that wasn't good enough. Oh, nol They wanted the ears of the world, too. So they opened their big mouths, and out came talk, talk, talk...
That's where the popcorn business comes in. You buy yourself a bag and plug up your ears.
Look at them in the front offices  the master minds! They took the idols and smashed them. The Fairbankses and the Chaplins and the Gilberts and the Valentinos. And who have they got now? Some nobodies  a lot of pale little frogs croaking pishposhl
Don't get sore at me. I'm not an executive. I'm just a writer.
You are! Writing words, words! You've made a rope of words and strangled this businessl But there is a microphone right there to catch the last gurgles, and Technicolor to photograph the red, swollen tongue!
Ssh! You'll wake up that monkey.
Get out!
Just a minute, you!
Yeah?
You're a writer, you said.
Why?
Are you or aren't you?
I think that's what it says on my driver's license.
And you have written pictures, haven't you?
Sure have. The last one I wrote was about cattle rustlers. Before they were through with it, the whole thing played on a torpedo boat.
The wind gets in that blasted pipe organ. I ought to have it taken out.
Or teach it a better tune.
How long is a movie script these days? I mean, how many pages?
Depends on what it is  a Donald Duck or Joan or Arc.
This is to be a very important picture. I have written it myself. Took me years.
Looks like enough for six impor tant pictures.
It's the story or Salome. I think I'll have DeMille direct it.
Uhhuh.
We've made a lot of pictures together.
And you'll play Salome?
Who else ?
Only asking. I did't know you were planning a comeback.
I hate that word. It is a return. A return to the millions of people who have never forgiven me for deserting the screen.
Fair enough.
Salome  what a woman! What a part! The Princess in love with a Holy man. She dances the Dance of the Seven Veils. He rejects her, so she demands his head on a golden tray, kissing his cold, dead lips.
They'll love it in Pomona.
They will love it every place. Read it. Read the scene just before she has him killed!
Right now? Never let another writer read your stuff. He may steal it.
I am not afraid. Read it!
Well?
This is fascinating.
Of course it is.
Maybe it's a little long and maybe there are some repetitions... but you're not a professional writer.
I wrote that with my heart.
Sure you did. That's what makes it great. What it needs is a little more dialogue.
What for? I can say anything I want with my eyes.
It certainly could use a pair of shears and a blue pencil.
I will not have it butchered.
Of course not. But it ought to be organized. Just an editing job. You can find somebody.
Who? I'd have to have somebody I can trust. When were you born  I mean, what sign of the zodiac?
I don't know.
What month?
December twentyfirst.
Sagittarius. I like Sagittarians. You can trust them.
Thank you.
I want you to do this work.
Me? I'm busy. Just finished one script. I'm due on another assignment.
I don't care.
You know, I'm pretty expensive. I get five hundred a week.
I wouldn't worry about money. I'll make it worth your while.
Maybe I'd better take the rest of the script home and read it 
Oh no. I couldn't let it out of my house. You'll have to finish it here.
It's getting kind of late 
Are you married, Mr.  ?
The name is Gillis. I'm single.
Where do you live?
Hollywood. The Alto Nido Apart ments.
There's something wrong with your car, you said.
There sure is.
You can stay here.
I'll come early tomorrow.
I don't know why you should be so upset. Stop that playing, Max. It seemed like a good idea  if we are to work together.
Look, I'm supposed to fix up your script. There's nothing in the deal about my staying here.
You'll like it here.
Thanks for the invitation, but I have my own apartment.
You can't work in an apartment where you owe three months' rent.
I'll take care of that.
It's all taken care of. It's all paid for.
I'm used to paying my own bills.
You proud boy, why didn't you tell me you were having difficulties.
Okay. We'll deduct it from my salary.
Now, now, don't let's be small about such matters. We won't keep books. Go on, unpack Mr. Gillis' things.
Unpack nothing. I didn't say I was staying.
Suppose you make up your mind. Do you want this job or don't you?
What's that?
Just a scene I cut out.
What scene?
The one where you go to the slave market. You can cut right to the scene where John the Baptist 
Cut away from me?
Honestly, it's a little old hat. They don't want that any more.
They don't? Then why do they still write me fan letters every day. Why do they beg me for my photo graphs? Because they want to see me, me, me! Norma Desmond.
Okay.
I want to talk to you for a minute.
Not now, my dear. I'm playing three no trump.
They've come for my car.
Please. Now I've forgotten how many spades are out.
I need some money right now.
Can't you wait till I'm dummy?
Now what is it? Where's the fire?
I've lost my car.
Oh...and I thought it was a matter of life and death.
It is to me. That's why I came to this house. That's why I took this job  ghost writing!
Now you're being silly. We don't need two cars. We have a car. And not one of thuse cheap new things made of chromium and spit. An IsottaFraschini. Have you ever heard of IsottaFraschinis? All handmade. Cost me twentyeight thousand dollars.
That's a dreadful shirt you're wearing.
What's wrong with It?
Nothing, if you work in a fill ing station. And I'm getting rather bored with that sport jacket, and those same baggy pants. Max, what's a good men's shop in town? The very best... Well, go there !
I don't need any clothes, and I certainly don't want you buy ing them for 
Why begrudge me a little fun? I just want you to look nice, my stray little boy.
How about some evening clothes?
I don't need a tuxedo.
Of course you do. A tuxedo and tails.
Tails. That's ridiculous.
You'll need them for parties. You'll need them for New Year's Eve. Where are your evening clothes?
Joe, you look absolutely divine. Turn around!
GILLIS +++$+++
Come on!
All padding. Don't let it fool you.
Come here!
You know, to me dressing up was always just putting on my dark blue suit.
I don't like those studs they've sent. I want you to have pearls. Nice big pearls.
Now, I'm not going to wear ear rings, I can tell you that.
Cute. Let's have some drinks.
Shouldn't we wait for the others?
Careful, it's slippery. I had it waxed.
Not on the same floor with Valentino!
Just follow me.
Don't bend back like that.
It's those feathers. They tickle.
It's a quarter past ten. What time are they supposed to get here?
Who?
The other guests?
There are no other guests. We don't want to share this night with other people. This is for you and me.
I understand some rich guy bought up all the tickets for a perfor mance at the Metropolitan and sat there listening to La Traviata, all by himself. He was afraid of catching cold.
Hold me tighter.
Come midnight, how about blind folding the orchestra and smash ing champagne glasses on Max's head?
You think this is all very funny.
A little.
Is it funny that I'm in love with you?
What's that?
I'm in love with you. Don't you know that? I've been in love with you all along.
What are the notes?
"Mad about the boy."
Norma, I can't take it. You've bought me enough.
Shut up. I'm rich. I'm richer than all this new Hollywood trash. I've got a million dollars.
Keep it.
I own three blocks downtown. I have oil in Bakersfield  pumping, pumping, pumping. What's it for but to buy us anything we want.
Cut out that us business.
What's the matter with you?
What right do you have to take me for granted?
What right? Do you want me to tell you?
Has it ever occurred that I may have a life of my own? That there may be some girl I'm crazy about?
Who? Some car hop, or a dress extra?
Why not? What I'm trying to say is that I'm all wrong for you. You want a Valentino  somebody with polo ponies  a big shot 
What you're trying to say is that you don't want me to love you. Is that it?
Go away.
What kind of a silly thing was that to do?
To fall in love with you  that was the idiotic thing.
It sure would have made attractive headlines: Great Star Kills Her self for Unknown Writer.
Great stars have great pride.
Go away. Go to that girl of yours.
Look, I was making that up because I thought the whole thing was a mistake. I didn't want to hurt you. You've been good to me. You're the only person in this stinking town that has been good to me.
Why don't you just say thank you and go, go, go 
Not until you promise to act like a sensible human being.
I'll do it again, I'll do it again, I'll do it again!
You're really going to send it to De Mille?
This is the right day.
Did she read the script?
DeMille is Leo. I'm Scorpio. Mars has been transmitting Jupiter for weeks. Today is the day of greatest conjuction. Now turn around. Let me dry you.
I hope you realize, Norma, that scripts don't sell on astrologers' charts.
I'm not just selling the script. I'm selling me. DeMille always said I was his greatest star.
When did he say it, Norma?
So he said it quite a few years ago. So what? I never looked better in my life. Do you know why? Because I've never been as happy in my life.
Have one of mine.
They're awful. They make me cough.
Pull up at the drugstore, will you, Max. I'll get you some.
You're a darling.
What on earth, darling? It took you hours.
I ran into some people I knew.
Where are my cigarettes?
Where are your...?
I can still see myself in the line: Bebe Daniels, Marie Prevost, Mabel Normand ... Mabel was always stepping on my feet ...What's the matter with you, darling? Why are you so glum?
Nothing is the matter. I'm having a great time. Show me some more.
All right. Give me this. I need it for a moustache. Now close your eyes.
How do you like that? We've made twelve pictures together. His greatest successes.
Maybe deMille is shooting.
I know that trick! He wants to belittle me. He's trying to get my price down. I've waited twenty years for this call. Now Mr. deMille can wait till I'm good and ready.
Don't you want to come along, darling?
I don't think so. It's your script. It's your show. Good luck.
Thank you, darling.
How did it go?
It couldn't have gone better. It's practically set. Of course, he has to finish this picture first, but mine will be his next.
He must be quite a guy.
He'a a shrewd old fox. He can smell box office. Only I'm going to outfox him a litt1e. This isn't going to be C. B. deMille's Salome. It's going to be Norma Desmond's Salome, a Norma Desmond Production, starring Norma Desmond...Home, Max.
Don't turn around. Keep your eyes on the book.
Yes, Norma.
I just came to say good night. I don't want you to see me  I'm not very attractive.
Good night.
I've lost half a pound since Tuesday.
Good.
I was a little worried about the line of my throat. This woman has done wonders with it.
Good.
You'd better get to bed yourself.
I think I'll read a little.
You went out last night, didn't you, Joe?
Why do you say that?
I just happen to know it. I had a nightmare and I screamed for you. You weren't here. Where were you?
I went for a walk.
No you didn't. You took the car.
All right, I drove to the beach. Norma, you don't want me to feel I'm locked up in this house?
Of course not, Joe. It's just that I don't want to be left alone. Not now, while I'm under this terrible strain. My nerves are being torn apart. All I ask is for you to be a little patient and a little kind.
I haven't done anything, Norma.
Of course you haven't. I wouldn't let you.
What are you doing, Joe? What are you doing? You're not leaving me?
Yes, I am, Norma.
No, you're not. Max! Max!
Max is a good idea. He can help with my luggage. Thanks for letting me wear the handsome wardrobe. And thanks for the use of all the trinkets.
The rest of the jewelry is in the top drawer.
It's yours, Joe. I gave it to you.
And I'd take it in a second, Norma  only it's a little too dressy for sitting behind the copy desk in Dayton, Ohio.
These are nothing. You can have anything you want if you'll only stay. What is it you want  money?
Norma, you'd be throwing it away. I don't qualify for the job, not any more.
You can't do this! Max! Max! ... I can't face life without you, and I'm not afraid to die, you know.
That's between you and yourself, Norma.
You think I made that up about the gun...
See, you didn't believe me!.. Now I suppose you don't think I have the courage!
Oh. sure  if it would make a good scene.
You don't care. do you? But hundreds of thousands of people will carel
Wake up, Norma. You'd be killing yourself to an empty house. The audience left twenty years ago. Now face it.
That's a lie! They still want me!
No, they don't.
What about the studio? What about De Mille?
He was trying to spare your feelings. The studio wanted to rent your car.
Wanted what?
De Mille didn't have the heart to tell you. None of us has had the heart.
That's a lie! They want me, they want me! I get letters every day!
You tell her, Max. Come on, do her that favor. Tell her there isn't going to be any picture  there aren't any fan letters, except the ones you write yourself.
That isn't true! Max?
You heard him. I'm a star!
Norma, grow up. You're a woman of fifty. There's nothing tragic about being fifty  not unless you try to be twentyfive.
I'm the greatest star of them all.
Goodbye. Norma.
No one leaves a star. That makes one a star.
What's the matter, Norma?
Nothing. I just didn't realize what it would be like to come back to the old studio. I had no idea how I'd missed it.
We've missed you too, dear.
We'll be working again, won't we, Chief? We'll make our greatest picture.
That's what I want to talk to you about.
It's a good script, isn't it?
It's got a lot of good things. Of course, it would be an expensive picture...
I don't care about the money. I just want to work again. You don't know what it means to know that you want me.
Nothing would thrill me more  if it were possible.
But remember, darling  I don't work before ten in the morning, and never after 4:30 in the afternoon.
Hello, young fellow.
Hello, Mr. deMille.
Last time I saw you was someplace very gay. I remember waving to you. I was dancing on a table.
Lots of people were. Lindbergh had just landed in Paris. Come on in.
Norma, I want to apologize for not calling you.
You'd better. I'm very angry.
I'm pretty busy, as you can see...
That's no excuse. You read the script, didn't you?
Yes, I did.
Then you could have picked up the phone yourself instead of leaving it to one of your assistants.
What assistant?
Don't play innocent. Somebody named Gordon Cole.
Gordon Cole?
And if you hadn't been pretty darned interested in that script, he wouldn't have tried to get me on the phone ten times.
Gordon Cole... Look, Norma, I'm in the middle of a rehearsal. Make yourself comfortable.
Did you see them? Did you see how they came?
You know, crazy things happen in this business. I hope you haven't lost your sense of humor ...
Goodbye, young fellow. We'll see what we can do.
I'm not worried. Everything will be fine. The old team together. Nothing can stop us.
If I could be of any help...
I'm sorry, Mr. Gillis, but I just don't think it's any good. I found it flat and banal.
Exactly what kind of material do you recommend? James Joyce? Dostoosvsky?
Perhaps the reason I hated Bases Loaded is that I knew your name. I'd always heard you had some talent.
That was last year. This year I'm trying to earn a living.
So you take Plot 27A, make it glossy, make it slick 
Let me help you. Betty Schaeter, Sheldrake's office.
Sure. Bases Loaded.
Hurt feelings department.
About that luggage. Where's the phone?
You forgot this.
Thanks.
I've been hoping to run into you.
What for? To recover that knife you stuck in my back?
I felt a little guilty, so I got out some of your old stories.
Why, you sweet kid.
There's one called....Window... something with a window.
Dark Windows. How did you like it?
I didn't.
Thank you.
Except for about six pages. You've got a flashback there ...
Is there someplace we can talk?
How about the Rainbow Room?
Now if I got you correctly, there was a short stretch of my fiction you found worthy of notice.
The flashback in the courtroom, when she tells about being a school teacher.
I had a teacher like that once.
Maybe that's why it's good. It's true, it's moving. Now why don't you use that character...
Who wants true? Who wants moving?
Drop that attitude. Here's some thing really worth while.
Want me to start right now? Maybe there's some paper around.
I'm serious. I've got a few ideas.
I've got some ideas myself. One of them being this is New Year's Eve. How about living it up a little?
As for instance?
Well....
We could make some paper boats and have a regatta. Or should we just turn on the shower?
How about capturing the kitchen and barricading the door?
Are you hungry?
Hungry? After twelve years in the Burmese jungle. I am starving, Lady Agatha  starving for a white shoulder 
Phillip, you're mad!
No, Phillip, no. We must be strong. You're still wearing the uniform of the Coldstream Guards! Furthermore, you can have the phone now.
O.K. I find I'm terribly afraid of losing you.
You won't. I'll get us a refill of this awful stuff.
You'll be waiting for me?
With a wildly beating heart.
Life can be beautiful!
Hello, Artie. Good evening, Miss Schaefer.
You don't know how glad I am to see youl
Stop it, Artie, will you? Where have you been keeping your self? I've got the most wonderful news for you.
I haven't been keeping myself at all. Not lately.
I called your agent. I called the Screen Writers Guild. Finally your old apartment gave me some Crestview number. There was always somebody with an accent growling at me. You were not there. You were not to be spoken to. They never heard of you.
Is that so? What's the wonderful news?
Sheldrake likes that angle about the teacher.
What teacher?
Dark Windows. I got him all hopped up about it.
You did?
He thinks it could be made into something.
Into what? A lampshade?
Into something for Barbara Stan wyck. They have a commitment with Barbara Stanwyck.
O.K. Where's the cash?
Where's the story? I bluffed it out with a few notions of my own. It's really just a springboard. It needs work.
I was afraid of that.
I've got twenty pages of notes. I've got a pretty good character for the man.
Sorry, Miss Schaefer, but I've given up writing on spec.
I tell you this is half sold.
As a matter of fact. I've given up writing altogether.
It's not your career  it's mine. I kind of hoped to get in on this deal. I don't want to be a reader all my life. I want to write.
Sorry if I crossed you up.
You sure have.
So long.
Just so you don't think I'm a complete swine  if there's anything in Dark Windows you can use, take it. It's all yours.
Well, for heaven's sake!
I mean it. It's no good to me anyway. Help yourself.
Why should you do that?
If you get a hundred thousand for it, you buy me a box of chocolate creams. If you get an Oscar, I get the left foot.
You know, I'd take you up on that in a minute. I'm just not good enough to do it all by myself.
What about all those ideas you had?
See if they make sense. To begin with, I think you should throw out all that psychological stuff  exploring a killer's sick mind.
Psychopaths sell like hotcakes.
This story is about teachers  their threadbare lives, their struggles. Here are people doing the most important job in the world, and they have to wprry about getting enough money to resole their shoes. To me it can be as exciting as any chase, any gunplay.
Check.
Now I see her teaching day classes while he teaches night school. The first time they meet ...
Look, if you don't mind, I haven't got time to listen to the whole plot ...
I'll make it short.
Sorry. It's your baby now.
I'm not good enough to write it alone. We'll have to do it together.
I'm all tied up. I can't.
Couldn't we work in the evenings? Six o'clock in the morning? This next month I'm completely at your disposal. Artie is out of town.
What has Artie to do with it.
We're engaged.
Good for you. You've got yourself the best guy in town.
I think so. They're on location in Arizona, shooting a Western. I'm free every evening, every week end. If you want, we could work at your place.
It's just impossible.
Nobody can be that busy.
Look, Betty, It can't be done. It's out.
You're tough, all right.
You're on your own. Stop being chickenhearted and write that story.
Honest to goodness, I hate you.
And don't make it too dreary. How about this for a situation: she teaches daytimes. He teaches at night. Right? They don't even know each other, but they share the same room. It's cheaper that way. As a matter of fact, they sleep in the same bed  in shifts, of oourse.
Are you kidding? Because I think it's good.
So do I.
Came on back. Let me show you where it fits in.
Oh, you 
And here's a title: AN APPLE FOR THE TEACHER.
Good.
What's good about it? I miss him something fierce.
I mean this is good dialogue along in here. It'll play.
It will?
Sure. Especially with lots of music underneath, drowning it out.
Don't you sometimes hate yourself?
Constantly. No, in all serious ness, it's really good. It's fun writing again. I'm happy here, honest I am.
Who's Norma?
Who's who?
I'm sorry. I don't usually read private cigarette cases.
Oh, that. It's from a friend of mine. A middleaged lady, very foolish and very generous.
I'll say. This is solid gold.
I gave her some advice on an idiotic script.
It's that old familiar story, you help a timid little soul across a crowded street. She turns out to be a multimillionaire and leaves you all her money.
That's the trouble with you readers. You know all the plots. Now suppose you proofread page ten while the water boils.
Look at this street. All card board, all hollow, all phoney. All done with mirrors. I like it better than any street in the world. Maybe because I used to play here when I was a kid.
What were you  a child actress?
I was born just two blocks from this studio. Right on Lemon Grove Avenue. Father was head elec trician here till he died. Mother still works in Wardrobe.
Second generation, huh?
Third. Grandma did stunt work for Pearl White. I come from a picture family. Naturally they took it for granted I was to become a great star. So I had ten years of dramatic lessons, diction, dancing. Then the studio made a test. Well, they didn't like my nose  it slanted this way a little. I went to a doctor and had it fixed. They made more tests, and they were crazy about my nose  only they didn't like my acting.
Nice job.
Should be. It cost three hundred dollars.
Saddest thing I ever heard.
Not at all. It taught me a little sense. I got me a job in the mail room, worked up to the Stenographic. Now I'm a reader...
Come clean, Betty. At night you weep for those lost closeups, those gala openings...
Not once. What's wrong with being on the other side of the cameras? It's really more fun.
Three cheers for Betty Schaefer! I will now kiss that nose of yours.
If you please.
May I say you smell real special.
It must be my new shampoo.
That's no shampoo. It'smore like a pile of freehly laundred hand kerchiefs, like a brand new auto mobile. How old are you anyway?
Twentytwo.
That's it  there's nothing like being twentytwo. Now may I suggest that if we're ever to finish this story you keep at least two feet away from me ... Now back to the typewriter.
Hey, what's the matter... Betty, wake up! Why are you staring at me like that?
Was I? I'm sorry.
What's wrong with you tonight? What is it, Betty?
Something came up. I don't want to talk about it.
Why not?
I just don't.
What is it you've heard. Come on, let's have it.
Betty, there's no use running out on it. Let's face it, what ever it is.
It's nothing. I got a telegram from Artie.
From Artie. What's wrong?
He wants me to come on to Arizona. He says it only oosts two dollars to get married there. It would kind of save us a honeymoon.
Why don't you? We can finish the script by Thursday.
Stop crying. You're getting married. That's what you've always wanted.
I don't want it now.
Why not? Don't you love Artie?
Of course I love him. I always will. I'm just not in love with him any more.
What happened?
You did.
Hello, Betty.
I don't know why I'm so scared, Joe. Is it something awful?
Come on in, Betty,
Ever been in one of these old Hollywood palazzos? That's from when they were making eighteen thou sand a week, and no taxes. Careful of these tiles, they're slippery. Valentino used to dance here.
This is where you live?
You bet.
Whose house is it?
Hers.
Whose?
Just look around. There's a lot of her spread about. If you don't remember the face, you must have heard the name of Norma Desmond.
That was Norma Desmond on the phone?
Want something to drink? There's always champagne on ice, and plenty of caviar.
Why did she call me?
Jealous. Ever see so much junk? She had the ceiling brought from Portugal. Look at this.
Her own movie theatre.
I didn't come here to see a house. What about Norma Desmond?
I'm trying to tell you. This is an enormous place. Eight master bedrooms. A sunken tub in every bathroom. There's a bowling alley in the cellar. It's lonely here, so she got herself a companion. A very simple setup: An older woman who is welltodo. A younger man who is not doing too well ... Can you figure it out yourself?
No.
All right. I'll give you a few more clues.
No, no! I haven't heard any of this. I never got those telephone calls. I've never been in this house ... Get your things together. Let's get out of here.
All my things? All the eighteen suits, all the custommade shoes and the eighteen dozen shirts, and the cufflinks and the platinum key chains, and the cigarette cases?
Come on, Joe.
Come on where? Back to a oneroom apartment that I can't pay for? Back to a story that may sell and very possibly will not?
If you love me, Joe.
Look, sweetie  be practical. l've got a good thing here. A longterm contract with no options. I like it that way. Maybe it's not very admirable. Well, you and Artie can be admirable.
Joe, I can't look at you any more.
Nobody asked you to.
Hello, Mr. Sheldrake. On that Bases Loaded. I covered it with a 2page synopsis. But I wouldn't bother.
What's wrong with it?
It's from hunger.
Nothing for Ladd?
Just a rehash of something that wasn't very good to begin with.
I'm sure you'll be glad to meet Mr. Gillis. He wrote it.
This is Miss Kramer.
Schaefer. Betty Schaefer. And right now I wish I could crawl into a hole and pull it in after me.
Name dropper.
I just think pictures should say a little something.
Carefull Those are dirty words! You sound like a bunch of New York critics. Thank you, Miss Schaefer.
Goodbye, Mr. Gillis.
Well, what do you know ! Joe Gillis !
Hi, Artie.
Where have you been keeping that gorgeous face of yours?
In a deep freeze.
I almost reported you to the Bureau of Missing Persons. Fans, you all know Joe Gillis, the wellknown screen writer, opium smuggler and Black Dahlia suspect.
Give me your coat.
Let it ride for a while.
You're going to stay, aren't you?
That was the general idea.
Come on.
Judas E. Priest, who did you borrow that from? Adolphe Menjou?
Close, but no cigar.
Say, you're not really smuggling opium these days, are you?
Where's the bar?
Good party.
The greatest. They call me the Elsa Maxwell of the assistant directors. Hey, easy on the punch bowl. Budget only calls for three drinks per extra. Fake the rest.
Listen, Artie, can I stick around here for a while?
Sure, this'll go on all night.
I mean, could you put me up for a couple of weeks?
It just so happens we have a vacancy on the couch.
I'll take it.
I'll have the bellhop take care of your luggage.
Wait a minute. This is the woman I love. What's going on? Who was loaded?
Don't worry. She's just a fan for my literary output.
Walking out on the mob. What's the big idea?
I'm sorry about New Year's. Would you believe me if I said I had to be with a sick friend?
Someone in the formal set, no doubt, with a tencarat kidney stone.
The accent! I've got it: this guy is in the pay of a foreign government. Get those studs. Get those cufflinks.
I've got to run along. Thanks any way for your interest in my career.
I hate to think where that puts me. I could be her father.
I'm terribly sorry, Mr. de Mille.
It must be about that appalling script of hers. What can I say to her? What can I say?
I can tell her you're all tied up in the projection room. I can give her the brush ...
Listen, thirty million fans have given her the brush. Isn't that enough?
I didn't mean to 
Of course you didn't. You didn't know Norma Desmond as a plucky little girl of seventeen, with more courage and wit and heart than ever came together in one youngster.
I hear she was a terror to work with.
She got to be. A dozen press agents working overtime can do terrible things to the human spirit. Hold everything.
We're ready with the shot, Mr. deMille.
You'll pardon me, Norma? Why don't you just sit and watch? O.K. Here we go.
Roll 'em.
Action! The scene starts.
Diane, it says here you're going to have mood swings, uncontrollable gas.
More proof God's a guy...
...and sex dreams where you actually have an orgasm!
Virgin Mary musta snuck that one in.
I mean it. I'm in. This is the closest thing to a goddamn family that I've ever had. If one of us needs something, we all do.
Stop it! This is crazy!
What the hell do you want?
I want to help. I'm part of this squad...
Grandma and Grandpa sent you pictures of a neighbor girl. They didn't want you to break out and come kidnap me.
Thank Gd. I was starting to think I'd killed the wrong man.
You shouldn't smoke so many of those.
I know, but it keeps down the size of my can.
They could kill you.
So could half the women in here. And I'd rather go out with a nice can... So watcha here for? To say how much you hate me or how much your grandparents hate me...
I don't hate you. I need your help.
My what?
Your help.
Now how the hell can I help you?
Okay, you can't tell anybody.
Gee, I'll sit out this afternoon's coffee talk. Whaddya want?
My best friend got pregnant.
Before you? Whoohoo!
I know  that's what I said too. Anyway, we want to help her get some money for the baby by robbing a bank.
Well, shitfire, Kansas, that's the sweetest goddamn thing ever...
I know, but we can't quite figure out how to, y'know, do it.
So you need my help? Oh my Gd, this is like asking me for help with your homework. Hey, Mink, c'mere!
Kansas, I want you to meet someone special.
Oh, Jesus Christ, Mom! Like my life ain't a great big pileofshit 'cause you're in here? Now I have to add, "P.S. My mom's a dyke" too?
What?! Hush up, you mouthy little shit!
Hey, don't "mouthy shit" me  I'm outta here.
Wait, Petunia. Mommy's a little amped up  didn't get her yard time this morning. Mink ain't my bitch. She's a specialist... in banks.
Hannah, in order to get real answers from the netherworld, you've gotta have a Christian virgin run the board. Your kind is pure of heart  the devil won't dick with you.
Well technically, I don't think I'm a virgin anymore.
Yeah. This summer at church camp? I'm pretty sure I had, y'know, an orgasm.
Hold up, hold up. Any sentence that starts with "at church camp" ain't leading to the big "O."
Oh my Gd! I'm not first!
But you're not married.
...so, while it's a laugh riot for the whole family, and Tim Conway is just about as funny as they come, especially when he goes...
Wait a minute. You watched the Apple fuckingDumpling Gang?!
I'm only allowed "G" movies.
Am I the only one who cares about this? At least I watched "Dog Day Afternoon!"
You sure you wanna go there?
Uh...maybe?
'Cause I will Jerry Springer you faster than you can say "Fatassed lesbian!"
Don't make me Jerry Lewis you guys for the rest.
Hey, I even took my parents' foster kid money. Phillipe's gonna have to gather rice without pants this month.
All of you!
Bank branch!
Bank branch!
All of you!
Really...
Yeah. "Itchy" sent us.
She did, did she? How is the old girl?
Definitely old.
That's Itchy, alright. How many y'need?
Oh please, we've all got bright futures ahead of us  we're not going to tell anyone. Promise!
Maybe we can make a deal.
Screw Lucy!
Kansas?
Is that you down there?
Shit! Yeah, Grandma. Me and the squad.
Are you girls talking about boys? Practicing kissing your hands?
Oh yeah, you caught us...
Oh well, then I'll put some cookies at the top of the stairs for you gals.
Thanks! That'd be great.
You got that big retarded girl down there?
Uh...Yeah, Grandma. She doesn't mean that. Kinda lost the old filter with her last stroke.
Then I'll throw a few more treats on the plate. Where's my smokes?
I'll get them before "Touched by an Angel," don't worry.
You damn well better...
... Jack Bartlett... Is Jack Bartlett interested in me?
II'm sorry  can someone else please run the Ouija board? It's creepy, it's wrong and it goes against the teachings of my Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ.
II didn't mean to say "whore," Diane. I just hear it so much at church  it kinda came flying out of my head.
I know, Hannah. Look, I'm not going to get an abortion. I mean, I always planned to get married and have kids  I'm just going a little out of order. Kinda reminds me of another young lady who found herself "with child," unmarried, on a long road, with no place to sleep. 'Course, that was a longlong time ago. But no matter what, she held her head high and said... "Pappa don't preach, I'm in trouble deep. Pappa don't preach, 'cause I'm keepin' my baby. Hey. I'm gonna keep my baby." The great one...
You want us to help you pick up?
Don't MarthafuckingStewart me! If you don't like it  you try being a pregnant teen!
And Hannah, you could give your share to your church  or maybe buy one of those hungry little kids Sally Struthers advertises.
Or, I could get my own horse...
Or that! Look, you guys, I just want to provide a future for my baby. I know my bank branch like the back of my puffy little hand. I could open that safe in my sleep!
Look, maybe I can watch a PG movie... I'll just say I'm counting dirty words for Sunday School.
That's okay, Hannah. It was silly to think we could learn to rob a bank from watching movies. Sex  you can learn from movies. But robberies? There's no way.
Hello?
We're dead! They showed this prison movie to my youth group on Sunday.
Hannah, we've...
It wasn't like the prison we saw  all these women had to shave their heads because they got lice from the filthy lives they'd lived! Oh Gd, I'm gonna be someone's bald bitch!
Ooops, hold on a sec.
...my Sunday School teacher says that in prison, women shove broom sticks up your...
Hold on...
Yeah?
I guess there's an exception to every rule.
Well, we'll each probably want one  so let's make it five. Five should do it.
Okay. How much ammo you reckon you'll need?
Ammo?
Bullets.
Bullets? No bullets! Oh my gosh, these are just to scare people. Kinda like roundoff, back handspring, whip back, double full. You never really use it  you just want the opposing squad to know you've got it.
Right. That'll be fifteen hundred  cash.
Hey, hey, hey. C'mon you guys. Obviously that's a little more than our budget will allow. Basically, we're looking for something around twohundred dollars.
Oh, why didn't you say. For twohundred I got a nice rubber band and a real sharp nail in back... I'll gift wrap it for you. The deal is fifteen hundred. Cash. Take it or leave it.
My daughter's always dreamed of bein' a cheerleader. Put her on your squad and I'll give you the guns.
You're kidding.
Fern! C'mere! She's siphoning tanks  takes a sec to cap off the cyanide hose.
Yeah?
Oh thank Buddha it's you, KimLo, I'm being held against my will, my civil rights have been violated and it took four days to make this one phone call...
Hello?
KimLo?
No. This is Diane. I think you have the wrong number.
Ooops, that's me  gotta run!
Wrong number Nooooooo!
Anyway, last time I checked, you still had to have sex to have an orgasm. And I know she ain't seen the lord on all fours  so I'm just saying.
Well, I want to know what happened 
Nope. Sounds more like the first.
I'll just ask the question myself... "Is Jack Bartlett interested in me?"
Madonna.
We're here for you, Diane.
Hattrick?
He is the Great One...
"No" you're not sure or "No" I'm not fat?
Uh, "no"... You're not fat.
You sure I'm not fat?
Listen, Kansas, I know you dream of springing your mom some day...
Stop, you're gonna make me cry.
And if the O.J. trial taught us anything, it taught us that in America, you can cut off someone's head and still be found innocent if you have enough money. Your mom only shot a guy...
Shut up.
Lucy, do you know for sure you're going to get that scholarship?
Kansas!
I'm sorry, Diane, but I'm not gonna watch my dreams fade away 'cause the Virgin Mary here thinks she's gonna get ideas from kiddie movies 
It's all my fault. I'm sorry I ever started this...
Di, it's not your fault. We all wanted to do this  for you... for ourselves.
Oh, thank Gd! I'm not just super fat!
Oh  okay, we ain't done with this... Those babies are gonna get a good start in life  with a real crib  one that costs a shitload! We're gonna learn how to rob a bank from the only people who really know how to do it  criminals! I'm gonna visit my mom!
NO! Wait...um... We're the Asquad from Lincoln High? So, uh...
We were told you could "fix us up."
Hey. Eyes on your own belly!
Heeheehwait a minute. Hold on, now. What do we do before a big game?
Oh no...
He Ikea'd us.
It was Lucy! Lucy went to the cops!
Remember, Kansas, every time you point a finger you've got three more pointing back at you.
She's been the weak tit on this mama cat since the beginning.
That you?
Yeah, hold on.
Just call me later. I gotta get some smokes for Grandma.
Don't use big bills!
For a pack of cigs? I use her food stamps.
I'm sorry.
What?! But all our paperwork's there. My school records, Jack's football records...
Let me explain something...
No. Wait! Did I say Promise! Crossmy heart and hopetodie, stickaneedlein myeye we'll never miss a payment?!
Uh, yes. Yes you did.
...do not accept charity. We are two young, ablebodied Americans. We do not want a handout. We want a handup. Give us food and we will be hungry tomorrow. Give us corn  the kind you plant, not eat  and we'll grow our own food and... and, uh, then cut it, and  uh, y'know eat it! Now, if you're interested in giving us a home loan, I will sit back down. If not, have a nice day, Ma'am.
Sorry. My hands are tied.
Hi, Jack.
Excuse me, Vendela, have you seen Diane? We're supposed to go to the homecoming dance tonight.
... so when your dad said, "I never want to see your "f'in' faces again!" do you think he meant forever or just until your mom wakes up?
I don't know... And what the hell was that sound she made right before she hit the coffee table.
Well, if I had to guess... I'd say that was the sound of a mother saying goodbye to her little boy and hello to a young man who's going to be a daddy of his own... Jack, do you know what I see here?
Spit from your dad?
I see a flower. And y'know, even the most beautiful flowers still grow from dirt.
Yeah.
So, while we're knee deep in right now  and things seem pretty "stinky"  in the long run, we're going to grow strong from this.
Y'think?
I sure do.
Diane, I've loved you ever since I first saw you  right before you kicked me in the head.
Oh, Jack...
Jack, sweetie, I'm only eating for two.
But Di, all this food reminds me of how much I want to teach our baby.
Like Cocoa Puffs. Good. Captain Crunch. Bad. Shreds the roof of your mouth. I mean you hear, "Tricks are for kids!" And you think, "I'm a kid, I guess they're for me." But your baby brain's got no idea that Fruit Loops are, like, a million times better. I'm going to save our kid all that pain.
Jack...
If you could be Count Chocula, Frankenberry or Trix the Rabbit, who'd you be?
Trix...
Me too! Will it ever end?! I love this lady!
Jack, I think I should get a job.
But we agreed your job is running the baby machine...
I know, but that was before.
Ah! I almost forgot gas for the baby machine. I'll grab your Snickers and get a place in line.
I never knew you dreamed of working in a grocery store bank branch. Baby, we are living the great American Dream!
Mmmhmmm...
If you reach for the stars, you're bound to get  mmJack, pull over.
Huh? Oh Jesus...
Uh, Jack  look, I can explain...
Diane, there's no excuse for not taking your prenatal vitamins. Now, if you guys were really friends, you'd remind her to take these.
...so although their dad said, "Don't get out of the car until I get back with help," they knew the sheriff's voice as he yelled. "Run to my voice  and don't look back." The twins did as he said, but at the last second they turned around and saw the escaped mental patient, bouncing their father's head on the top of the car! Ah! They jumped, Diane! They jumped!
That was gas, Sweetie.
Oh... What are you working on?
Jus some girlie things for the squad.
Diane? Diane!
Huhhawha? Ahh! I'm under the ice! I'm uh  oh...man... That was a weird one.
Oh my Gd, you've been robbed!
No...I've been pregnant.
Look, you're fat, Diane. You're fat, fat, fat! Because you eat, eat, eat! What?! She keeps asking because she wants some honesty.
No I don't... I keep asking because I feel fat.
Oh Gd, I'm sorry... You're not really fat! I was just saying that because, uh, I thought that's what you wanted me to say.
You sure?
Positive.
"Positive" you're sure I'm not fat or "positive" I'm...
Oh my Gd, I read about this! It's called a "pregnancy insanity." Quick, she needs a sitz bath 
Look, I might be moody. I might be gassy. But I am perfectly sane. Think about it. In school, they tell us, "Dreams can come true." Right?
C'mon, Luce, people do it in the movies all the time.
And they get caught!
That's right. So all we have to do is watch a bunch of movies and learn from their mistakes.
No.
If you don't  can you still afford to go to Harvard?
... I don't know. Probably not.
So then this isn't crazy. It's a sure bet.
Well...
But, we have to make a smart plan!
Of course  of course! Hands in...
Okay, even with all our savings, it's still only six hundred fiftyfour.
Heeheehee, haaaaathat's it? Heehee hee...
 We practice! Sorry, Cleo.
That's right. Practice makes perfect. I'm practicing to have a baby right now. If we do a practice job, we'll not only get the experience, but also the extra money we need for guns!
Di, it's Luce. Kansas just called and said she's going to "fuck me up!" Then I heard coughing, a thud and Kansas had to go. I think her Grandma had another heart attack. Anyway, why does she want to "fuck me up?"
She thinks you went to the police.
WHAT?! That's insane!!! Why would I go to the police?
I've got to get that. Relax. I'll see you tomorrow.
Another sex dream?
Wayne Gretzky.
Di, are you okay? We can skip the girl party this week.
Everything's fine. I'm just having a little trouble keeping my frown upside down.
...He slices off the guy's ear, and I mean you see everything  the bloody pink hole where the 
Cleo, I've already thrown up twice today  could you please get to any relevant part of the movie?
Well...uh...they, y'know, uh... They had nicknames.
Di, we're sorry. We...
It's off... I can't take the fighting, the backstabbing, the open hostility. We're not acting like cheerleaders, we're acting like a bunch of sorority girls!
Is Jack upset that he can't be here?
Heeheehaaaaweee worked it out. Heee heehaaa....
Use the bathroom, because the Porta Potties on the field are gross.
My fault  What do we do that enables us to be as great as we are?
I personally think of how Conan started as a writer, then became a...
Hello?
Di? I just called to say that Conan talked about us again last night.
Thanks, Cleo. See you tomorrow.
Bye.
Holy shit.
You just became a statistic!
I'm in, too.
Cleo!
Kansas is right. We're like sisters  we're closer than sisters. And you don't turn your back on family.
And you know real cops aren't half as smart as Keanu.
Forget it. I've got a scholarship to Harvard hanging over my head. I won't risk it.
Conan went to Harvard.
Ahh! Baby's got two heads!!!
It's twins!!
Can you guys believe this? We're like celebrities!
Better enjoy it now. 'Cause tomorrow some little kid falls down a well and we're nothing but a distant memory.
Wait! Did you say you are pregnant or you were pregnant... You had it, threw it out and you're gonna go back and dance all night!
Shut up, Cleo. Di, how much do you need for an abortion?
What?!
You pieceashit bug zapper!
I can't believe your grandparents never come down here.
You have three heart attacks and a half dozen strokes and tell me how much you wanna run up and down the stairs. Shit  I forgot to pick up the cigarettes.
Who are you  the goddamn Bionic Woman?!
I just pulled and it  it came off.
This is great  GREAT! Now we have to enter the front door!
Look, it's really not my fault.
Hey! Rule number one  never take off the mask! Y'hear me! No matter what happens, NEVER TAKE OFF THE MASK!
Sorry, Kansas...
NOGAHBUH NO! Rule number two  NO NAMES! NO GODDAMN NAMES, you retard!
Oh for Chrissakes... "White trash Betty." I didn't realize the rules went into effect before we entered Safeway.
Well, use your head, "Stalker Betty."
I'm going out later.
No car.
The fuck not?
You know the fuck not.
Fuck.
Don't swear it's impolite.
Yes, that's right. You know what, honey? You should go to New York. You should go. Go show 'em. They need your unique point of view.
At least I have a point of view, you know?
Seriously? It's a great idea.
Ha! Thank you! See? He did it. He left.
I did. I split, man. I expanded my horizons, you know. Served my country. Saw the world, you know? I've gained wisdom and now I'm back, baby, back from the road. Me and Jack Kerouac.
Why don't you go back to where you came from?
Hey, Tim.
No, see, sweetheart, you don't want to stand up for parasite 'cause I can fuckin' smell him from here. You know what? Tow words, man: roll on.
Make a move. Greasecake. Towelhead.
Hey, Tim, you know what? You win.
Fucking drunk, huh?
You have the largest penis. Can we go please?
Hey, your gonna regret this.
Come on, Jeff.
Leave him alone, Tim.
Uh, excuse me, I'd like to know where he gets his ideas.
Tim's jealous, you know? He wants to have ideas too.
Yeah. Yeah, I'm jealous of MTV faggots who are named after animals.
Jeff!
Ew! Oh, Buff! Relax!
Why don't you fucking relax? He's having verbal intercourse, Sooze.
Buff is funny, okay? She likes Buff, so why don't you whip shut the feminist hole.
Hey, why don't you swallow your cock and choke on it? Oh, I forgot, it's not big enough.
It was the nicest thin I've done in a long time.
Oh that's nice for you.
Forget about New York, Jeff. I don't want to talk about New York anymore.
There was this other place where they served live monkey brains. Sweat to God. You walk in, they bring the little monkey out, shave his head, crack it open, and you eat it's brains while it's still alive. I didn't go in, though, 'cause I didn't have any money and my mom has a saying: "Don't write any checks you can't cash".
Could you give me a ride?
Oh yes! Yeah, man, give her the ride, the ol' Pony ride back to the hotel.
Tim, go throw up somewhere.
Hey, great game Friday. Kicked Holbrook's ass, huh?
Missed it. Can I get a fifth of Old Crow?
Just one?
Yeah.
I don't, I don't remember. What do I owe you?
Uh, eleven twentyfive.
Yeah. Yeah. How's the air force, Tim?
It's not the air force anymore, Scuff
So where are you?
I'm here.
Well, uh, there's this benefit for Rwanda we're gonna do. And, uh, you know, my songs, uh, where I get the ideas for them, uh, you know, stuff like that.
Where do you get your ideas?
"See what's around you listen to their lies"
So, like, your dad's a big deal, right?
Ooh, wow, nice. Personal trainer? Very nice.
"I sound like an idiot watching the parade I know there's no tomorrow only the charade I am dead Deep inside my head All the lies There's no then Only now I will love show me how"
Tim?
Uh, I didn't write any songs. You guys go ahead. I gotta stay here and guard the parking lot.
Where's Erica? You seen her?
Erica? She said she was tired. She went back to the hotel.
Oh, How'd she get back?
I called Bucky's. I got her a cab. Is there any hot mustard?
Well, I called Erica's beeper. There's just no answer.
What are you? Her pimp? She said she might go get a drink first.
Well, I mean, she always answers her beeper.
Pal, she's a big girl, you know? I'm sure she's alright.
Yeah? Well, what'd she say?
About what?
About where she went. I mean, what bar?
She didn't say. Maybe she's at the bar at the hotel.
The bar at the hotel? She told you that? What did she say exactly?
Well, Dad, she said she wanted to suck my cock.
Okay. You know what? Watch your fucking language, alright? Or I might have to.
Whatever.
Oh, come on, Pony. I'm just kidding. Wow, you rock stars are really sensitive, huh? You know, there's a life on the road?
Don't do that, man, okay?
You know, man, it's none of your business what I do, okay?
It's none of my business?
Yeah.
Oh, okay, it's none of my business. Yeah, so, youyou're trying to fuck my best friend's girlfriend and it's none of my business?!
No, see, Neil, if you're fucking with one of my friends, then you're fucking with me.
Don't do that.
What are you going to do? Hm?
If you hit me...
Yeah?
... my manager will slap an assault charge on your ass faster than you can say AA, okay?
Your manager?
Yeah, man, my manager and my lawyer.
Well, just, you know, have 'em call me. Yyou know where to find me, right?
Oh, yeah, drunk on the corner, man. Hey, why don't you buy another beer. It's on me, okay?
Pony, oh my god!
Hey!
You showed up. Oh, my god! Holy shit! Look at this car, man!
Oh, it's stupid, isn't it.
Is that your driver?
It's stupid.
No, no, it isn't. It's cool.
Look at you!
Oh!
Wow. Hey, you look good. Like you, you know, head's in a good place, you know? You, are still doing your painting?
Sometimes, yeah. You know, I started to do performances.
Oh, yeah?
So? What's L.A. like?
It's pretty exciting.
Yeah?
Yeah.
Like?
Oh, uh... uh, the other night our manager Danny took us to this restaurant and there was Sandra Bernhard.
No, she was just sitting there?!
Oh, yeah, just sitting there eatin' a salad, you know. That kind of thing happens all the time in L.A. It's, you know... I met Johnny Depp.
You did? I love him. Yeah, you know, I'm thinking of moving to New York.
New York, huh?
Yeah. To go to school and, you know, paint, performances, paint.
You have to go. You always did such, uh, you know, great work. I still have some of those drawings that you'd do in study hall.
You do not!
I do. Jeff, don't you think Sooze should go to New York and, uh, you know.
Hey, Pony, this is my friend BeeBee.
Hey.
Yeah, so what do you guys do next? I mean, what's your band do now?
Oh, uh, we're gonna go in the studio and we're, we're doin' a new album.
Yeah?
Yeah, and I was thinking, Sooze, you could do the cover.
You do not want me to do your cover.
I don't want you to do the cover, I, I need you to do the cover.
You're not serious.
I'm always serious.
Oh they'd never let me do what I want.
I get final approval. It's in my contract.
Would I get paid?
Yeah, we'd have to fly you out for meetings, you know.
Yeah?
Yeah.
Oh, God, that would be something I really want to do.
Okay, now, you guys all take care, okay? Oh, man, I feel so good. I feel good 'cause I'm hanging out with you guys, man. You know? I mean, I forgot what it was like to just hang out.
Yeah.
And you know why it's so good? See, because, see, you guys are real. No, man, I mean it. You guys have a sense of humor. You live your lives, you know. It's simple, you know. The guys on the road, I mean, the band, all they talk about is scoring chicks... and Danny, all Danny talks about is money.
Yeah, come on, play it.
Oh, no, man. I can't.
Alright, alright already.
Alright!
"Drove down the highway there was a big jam The family had died There inside their minivan There was a backup It went on for miles But as bad as it was It was gone after a while" Chorus here. "You may think there's nothing to it and the truth is hard to see To be an invisible man is a remarkable thing to be thing to be thing to be"
That was so great!
You know, that is my worst fear. Making a sound and no one hears it.
Mine too.
Jesus, Jeff.
Hey, man, uh, look, if you don't like my stuff, uh, I won't sing it, okay? I'm sorry, you know?
I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
No, no, no, no, no. Uh, hey, man. You know I'm really sorry if I, if I said something wrong. I, I...
Oh, yuck! Oh, gross!
You done?
Yeah. Burnfield, Pizza and Puke capital of the world.
I can't believe you're still here.
I'm moving.
If...
No, I'm going.
Mmhm.
Soon.
Yep.
What's that supposed to mean?
I don't know. I say what I mean.
Oh, yeah, you're just so smart.
That's because I am.
I hate it here. It's so ugly, it's like being dead. You got out of here, you know? I'm ready to go.
Yeah, but sometimes I try to figure out why I left in the first place, you know? I think about people and I wonder what they're doing.
Yeah.
I think about you. I mean, a lot.
Me?
Yeah, I have, I have, yeah.
Yeah, you know, when you called I thought, there's a name from the past.
Or the future, oh, no, no, I mean... I mean, we'll be working on that album cover, right?
Yeah, I know what you're saying.
You do?
Yeah. God, you showed up at such a weird time in my life.
Is that Jeff?
Oh, my god!
You know, my mom has this saying.
Yeah?
"Don't write any checks you can't cash."
Really? What else does your mother say?
Tim, why don't you shut the fuck up?
I think I gotta go.
What the fuck are you talking about?!
Nobody's fucking anybody!
Why should I call the police, huh? They don't so any good.
Well, you gotta call your wife then, you know, 'cause she kind of handles these heavy matters anyway, right?
No. No, you see, I don't have to call my wife.
Well, what about this?
What about this, huh? Go ahead, big man.
Camel jockey.
You know, why do you call me names? You know, I never hurt you. I'm only working here.
Yeah, yeah. That's the fucking problem.
Pakistani. Okay? We're from Pakistan.
Alright, alright, enough with the Boy Scout routine.
Please. Look...
Look, get down off my property.
Why? What are you gonna do? Huh? You're gonna shoot me for standing on your fucking trash can?
Get off my property!
Hey, you know what? Go fuck yourself.
Fuck you! You know, I'll call the police.
Go ahead! They love you just about as much as I do.
Look Pakeesa...
Oh, there you are, honey. We were waiting for you. What happened?
Look, get down now, you fucking drunk! You bum!
You know what? Go ahead and shoot me. Go ahead! Fucking shoot me! Come on! Come on, man! Come on!
Get off my roof!
Oh, shit. Jeff. Jeff, come up here!
Look; okay, come on. Look, what are you doing? Look, that's enough. My wife called the police. They're coming.
Ready?
What are you saying?
I hope you're happy!
This has nothing to do with me, this, uh, drinking, yeah.
No, this has everything to do with you.
No, no, she went up by herself. This was not my responsibility.
Hey it's your roof. It's your fucking problem. Hi, uh, there's an emergency down at the Circle A on first Street, Yeah, Okay. You're fucked now, pal! Um, send an ambulance 'cause I, I think it's an overdose or something. Okay. Okay. Jeff, they're coming. Just wait here. I'm gonna go over to Scuff's and see if he's got his truck. Listen, if she dies, you're gonna be so sorry that you ever showed your brown face in this town!
Hey, Pony.
Hey, man. Jeff. How're you doin?
Good, man.
Wow, man. The corner. I mean, nothing's changed.
Well, shit, man, you've only been gone for a year, man, Is that your limo?
Yeah, yeah. Yeah, the record company, they make me use it, you know. I mean, it's dumb, I know, it's just...
No, it's not...
Hey, the driver knows Billy Idol. Wow, huh?
Yeah, hey I saw your album at Musicland up at the mall.
Oh yeah, yeah, we're starting to get good placement and shit like that, you know.
Yeah.
We sold, uh, over ninety thousand units and uh... and Danny says that we're gonna get a gold record. Yeah.
Wow. A gold record, man, that's great. So you're, you're like living the wild life now, huh?
Nah, nah, nah, nah.
Aw, come on. Rock star. Fame. Fortune. Sex.
Yeah, shit. Naw, man, you know. It's hard work, you know?
Yeah.
The road's hell, you know? I mean airport, hotel, show. And airport, hotel, show. Airport, hotel, show. I mean, fuck, man, you know? You still living at your mom's?
Yeah, I crash there.
Yeah, good.
The prom. That's funny.
Hey, I though you guys were coming to the show, man?
Oh, uh, yeah, we were, but, uh, Sooze, screwed up the tickets.
Oh, man, we were pretty on tonight.
Sorry.
So how's college?
I dropped out. I mean, uh, you know, this semester I'm taking a, a class, you know, three nights a week. But I'm just trytrying to think and work on stuff., you know? I've been doing some writing, though. Short pieces, you know.
You know, I've thought about that, actually.
No, man, I mean it. You're a good writer. I remember those things you'd write during honors English. Funny shit.
So you think I should?
What?
Write. 'Cause I, I have written some things.
Like songs?
Yeah, they could be songs.
Yeah. You should show 'em to me.
Really?
Yeah, really.
Now?
Yeah.
Great.
Yeah, maybe later. Hey! Hey!
Well, I helped start it, but, you know, uh...
Well, not exactly.
For a while.
Well, I mean, we jammed a couple of times. You know, I mean, you play harmonica, but that was before we were really a band, you know, before Danny signed us.
So, um, Pony, where are you staying? Are you staying at your mother's house?
No, no, they, uh, you know, that can be kind of a hassle, so , uh, you know, I just stay at the Four Seasons. It's easier.
So who are you?
What do you mean?
Well, if we're, like, the man invisible, what are you?
I don't know. Uh, I'm an artist, I guess. You know, there's life and then there's the people watching the life, commenting on it.
Yeah, well, that's what I do too.
What?
Comment, say things, think. Whatever. Why are you so special?
Well, I, I didn't say I was special, but it's one thing, you know, and it's another thing to actually communicate it to people. You know what I mean? If a tree falls in a forest and no one hears it, does that make a sound?
Of course it does.
Wwait a minute, wait a minute.
You know what I'm saying?
No, man. Hey. No, you know what? Hey, it's you, man. It's, you know what, you know what it is? It's this tarpit of stupidity that we're all stuck in. It's this cell. It's this void, you know.
Oh, no, man, look. Look, you know, it's me, okay? I come out here and I'm, so used to everyone, you know, kissing my ass and I think I'm a fucking star, man, and I'm really sorry if I'm full of attitude. I, I really...
No, you know what? It's not you, man. It's not anybody. It's me. Whoo! Hey.
Look, man, it... Shit. Why don't we get something to eat? I mean food?
George can drive us. There's plenty of room in the car. Jeff?
No. You know what? You guys go ahead and bring back something here. Yeah.
Why don't you come with us, man? I mean, I want to hear about those songs you've been working on. You too, Buff.
I gotta take a piss. Do you mind if we pull over really quickly?
Oh, yeah.
I'm sorry. I, I gotta...
Oh, no, no. Uh, uh, George, pull over.
Fuck 'em. Fucking assholes.
Burnfield. No place like it.
Hey, where's Erica?
I don't know.
I don't know.
I'm gonna go to the car for a 'sec. I'll be right back.
God, I haven't seen you all day.
You could've come over.
I know, I know, I know.
Oh! Trim it!
I hate that.
Sorry. Let's go back to the van right now.
No. I'm not going to the van, it's so gross. Come on. I'm doing my performance right now.
Okay, so maybe later.
Was that supposed to be me?
No.
Yes.
No, not, not everything. This. I am the man in your life.
Man?
Yeah, man, male, significant other, whatever the fuck I am.
It's a piece.
Your sure as hell right about that.
I'm not doing it anywhere, Jeff. It's just part of my application to the School of Visual Arts in New York.
"The worst I can do is starve to death." Listen to you.
I don't want to hear it anymore.
No, no, no. Yyou know what? Yyour packing your bags, you're jumping into the unknown because some conceptual artist who teaches at a community college is having a midlife crisis and he wants to sleep with some girl half his age, so he tells you you have talent.
Mister Brooks has had shows in New York, Jeff. He's been reviewed in Art Forum. I think he knows.
Oh, well, then you better listen to him.
Well, fuck! Might as well not do anything! Let's just stick out thumbs up our asses and twirl.
What are you trying to communicate? Tell us.
So you can give me more shit?
No, no. It's an honest question. What are you trying to communicate?
I'm trying to communicate how I feel, Jeff. You know raise consciousness. Make people think for a change.
Yes, you asshole.
About what?
About things that are important to me.
Like what?
Sexual politics, racism, the environment, the military industrial...
Of course I do!
Name one.
God, KAREN JOHNSON.
One!
Your completely missing the point.
Hey!
I'm talking about idealism.
No, idealism is guilty, middle class bullshit.
No, sweetie. Cynicism is bullshit.
No, no, no. I'm not being cynical, I'm being honest.
But do you stand for anything?
Yes, I stand for 
What? What do you stand for?
I stand for honesty! I stand for some level of truth!
Oh, yeah, right. Yeah, right. Fuck you.
Can I talk here? Let me talk.
You know, all you know is what's good for you.
Can I talk?
Typical male.
I can't wait till Pony gets here, you know? Have a conversation with a human being?
Well, if you love him so much, why didn't you go see him play?
Um, because you didn't want to go.
Like I'm going to pay twenty bucks to see Neil Moynihan in some band that I helped start.
Okay. Well, you know, he's always been a nice guy and I like him.
This is ridiculous!
Tim!
It was a racial incident.
It was just something that got out of hand. Did anyone get hurt?
It got that close.
Okay, but nothing happened. Believe me, if I thought something really bad was going to happen, I would've done something.
Oh, yeah?
Yeah.
Okay, what would you have done.
I would've stopped it.
How?
I don't know. I would've done something. This is kind of hypothetical, isn't it? This place is so stupid. I can't believe we're sitting here in this moshpit of consumerism. With all these people eating their chunks of dead flesh...
Jeff. Jeff.
... like fucking robots. Look at those kids there.
Jeff. You know, I was talking to Mister Brooks yesterday. He has this friend in New York who wants to sublet his apartment for sixfifty a month. I could swing that. Sixfifty.
Sooze.
What?
Did it ever occur to you that I might have some feelings about you moving to New York?
What feelings?
Us.
Of course.
And?
Come with me.
No, no, see, that's not what I'm saying. I could go to New York if I wanted to, but what's the point? So I can learn how to order a cappuccino? So I can get mugged by some crackhead? So I can see, see homeless people up close and personal?
So what do you wanna do?
Nothing.
No one does nothing, Jeff.
Okay, well, then, I'm gonna break new ground.
New ground?
Mmhm.
Taking one community college course on the history of Nicaragua, while barely holding a job packing boxes?
Okay, look. My job is not who I am. I don't need that. Why? What's your goal? Status? Money? Getting your picture on the cover of some glossy magazine?
My goal is to make art.
So, what, why can't you do that here? What's wrong with here? Why is somewhere else better?
Why should I stay here, Jeff? So we can sit on the corner and watch the lights change, while you bitch about Burnfield?
Mmmm.
So I can spend the rest of my life guessing what it would be like to be a real artist?
No, no.
So you and I can fuck while your parents are out having dinner at the Sizzler? What are we doing, Jeff? You and me?
I don't know.
Yeah, uh, that would depend, but yeah. She should.
Mm.
Yeah, but that doesn't mean that your tree is not artistic if no one cuts it down.
Jeff likes to argue for the sake of arguing.
No, I don't.
Yes, you do.
No, I don't.
You do.
No, I don't.
FUCK! Pony, if we wanted to hear you sing, we would've gone to your concert!
Jeff!
So you sold ninety thousand units. So what? Does that mean you're a genius? You're a great artist? You're higher up the ladder? You got an extra gold star on your fuckin' forehead?
Come on.
No. No, no, no.
Come on. I'm not gonna go if you don't come.
No, I just don't feel like it. That's all.
Why don't you just try? Please. For me. Come on.
Oh, hi. I thought you guys got lost.
Hey, where did you go? We were worried about you.
Gee, Jeff, I thought you were gonna go take a piss, not join some alcoholic nudist colony.
No, no. I just got sick and tired of listening to that demo tape over and over again, you know? I mean, I felt like a fucking groupie, you know.
Mm. I enjoyed the ride. Sorry you didn't.
But wait! Sooze, I don't wanna fight. I'm so sorry.
What?
No, I mean it. No, look, when, when I got out of the car I walked all the way here.
Mmhm.
And I fig and I figured something out.
Oh, yeah?
I, yeah.
Mm.
Wait, Sooze, I, I have to talk to you, 'cause I, there's something I figured out.
God, you smell like whiskey.
No, no, I have to talk to you.
Is that a threat?
Wait, wait, wait a minute, Sooze. What are you doing?
I'm leaving. Is that alright with you? Do I have your permission? Maybe you want to think about it.
Where are you going?
For a ride.
Wait, away?
Yes, Jeff, away. Away, away, away.
To his hotel?
Shit, Jeff!
I've run out of words.
Wait. What, what are you saying?
I don't know. And I don't care that I don't know.
Well, what about us?
What about us? I'm moving away your staying here.
No, maybe not though. That, that's what I'm trying to say.
Maybe not? You think that I'm with somebody else and now it's maybe not?
Oh, no, no, no.
You're unbelievable.
Wait, no, I... Look, Sooze, I figured something out.
You did, huh? Good for you.
Oh, fuck it, man!
Do your covers and all that shit.
'Bye, Jeff.
Go.
What?
Just go.
You really suck, you know that?
Just go.
What?
Seventwenty.
I gave it to you.
Why we're just standing here.
Look, your trespassing.
You know, this, what you're doing with your life...
I don't know.
You know, it's not you. You know? You seem like a smart guy.
Yeah, well, thank you for the advice, but you wouldn't understand what is going on with me.
Oh, it's very complicated, huh?
That's right.
Complicated or not, life moves on. Hm?
No, wait, wait! Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait! What is your name?
Look, why do you care, huh?
Because maybe if we know each other's names, things wouldn't get like this, My name's Jeff.
Okay. Nazeer, okay?
Nazeer what?
Nazeer Chaudry!
Please?
Look, look, just get off my property.
This has nothing to do with me! She went up by herself. Yeah I tell them don't go on the roof! They can't go on the roof! How is she?
I don't know. I think she's breathing.
Okay. Okay, look my wife called the police. They're coming. It's not too late. They'll come, they'll take care of her. I'm going inside.
Buff, sit. You know what I mean though? Somebody ought to crack that guy with a baseball bat.
Yeah, well, he's from a Third World country. He doesn't have it easy.
What? What the fuck do you know about the third world? You been there? No? No, well, I have. Fuckers live like sardines in a can over there, you know. Everything stinks. It's true, there's no, you know, law, no order. No nothing. The assholes come over here, they think it's gonna be the same.
Hey, he's a human being you can give him that much.
Actually, the only thing I gotta give that guy is a oneway ticket back to Greaseballland.
Yeah, well, that pizza could feed a family of four in Turkey or India or wherever the fuck he comes from.
If it's all so fucking futile, what the fuck are you so fucking upset about, fuckhead?
Because I'm alienated.
You don't need to sit next to me right now.
Who were you talking to?
Nobody. Sooze.
Oh, no, you wanted to get together with your close friend, Pony, the rockstar. I understand. So you, do you, want us to, leave?
No. We were just gonna go someplace or something to...
Jeff, Jeff, if you want to be alone with Pony, you know, that's, that's fine with us.
Sooze wants to see him.
Well, you know, I wanna fucking see him. I gotta know what it's like to be on MTV.
Yeah, yeah, I stay at the Four Seas, it's ease.
Wow, that must be pretty nice there.
Wow, you're cute when you're angry.
Why don't you write a song about Sandra Berhard's salad, asshole?
No, that's not what I'm saying. I'm saying I don't need a limousine to know who I am, alright?
Right on. You know what? He doesn't need the limo, man.
I mean, you know, at least I admit that I don't know. I know that things are fucked up beyond belief and I know that I have nothing original to say about any of it, alright? I don't have an answer. I don't have a fucking message.
Okay, great. Well, now he's crying. Are you guys happy?
Oh, shut up, Tim. This isn't funny, man.
I ate a dog when I was in Thailand. Tasted exactly like this sparerib.
No, wait, no, I thought about New York.
Tim, what are you talking about?
Ask your girlfriend.
See ya later.
What? Oh, come on. You're not gonna suck my cock?
To women. They're all whores. Let us not forget what Chenowsky said. "The greatest men are the most alone." And without suffering, Jeffery, you will never gain wisdom.
I'm not suffering, you know. I don't give a shit.
Good. That's good.
Yeah. Yeah, no, you're right. It's no big deal, you know. Guy probably has his arm around her right now, holding her close, nudging her titty with his elbow, talking about the deep significance of his music, while she looks up at him with her big brown eyes. In a few minutes they'll be back at the Four Seasons. You ever, you ever stayed in one of those places?
No.
Well, it ain't no pup tent in the garage, you know what I mean? Fuck. So they'll talk and talk. They'll probably talk all night. And, oh, they'll decide that they're gonna spend the night together, right? But, you know, they're gonna keep their underwear on and they're not gonna do anything. By six a.m. he's parking the pink Cadillac. Fuck. There's really only one answer.
What?
Anarchy, my friend. Fuck 'em. You know what I mean?
Yeah, fuck 'em.
No, no, say it like this. Fuck 'em!
Fuck 'em! Fuck 'em all, man!
Oh, no, no, no. This is no big deal, you know? I can come down and, and get you out.
No, no. I'm not, I'm not talking about this. I did a bad thing, Jeff.
What? What'd you do?
That chick, Erica?
Well, wwhat happened?
Well, I, you know, I took her to the van, you know. It was goin' all hot and heavy and she started hanging on me, you know? And she started crying, "Tim, Tim, what's the matter? I love you. Don't go!" And I was just looking at her stupid face and her stupid eyes, stupid mouth and I was filled with disgust, man. And I fuckin'... Oh, man, I really...
What'd you do?
I hit her.
You hit her? Oh, wait, wait a minute. Why'd you hit her?
Because I was fucked up, man. I just kept hittin' her till she didn't move anymore.
Wait a minute, wait a minute. She's unconscious?
Go look, man. Go look. Go see for yourself, if you got the guts.
Oh fuck.
They let you out?
Yeah, of course they let me out. Chickenshits. I gotta pay some class C misdemeanor ticket. So did I call it or did I call it? She spent the night, didn't she? Hm? Oh, that sucks for you, pal. Oh, shit.
You lied to me.
You want to know what your problem is, Jeff? You want to believe so bad, you'll buy anything. It's true. Look at you. You're gullible and you're gutless.
No, no. That's not the way it is at all. No, I stayed up all night trying to figure out how to protect my best friend. Wait, yeah, no, I was trying to come up with some lie so that you wouldn't have to go to jail for the rest of your life.
Wow. You did that for me?
Yes.
Well, you know, all I can say is, you're a fucking fool.
Why? Because I give a shit?
Oh, shit.
Because I care, I'm a fucking fool?
Oh, Jeff, give me a break. You didn't even have the guts to go look in the van, did you?
Oh no, no. You know what? Fuck that. No, you lied to me. You lied to me because you're gutless. You're a gutless, drunken looser.
I'm a loser. And I'm drunk. But I'm not gutless.
You know, and what are you doing here in the first place, man? He's just gonna call the cops again.
Good, good. I, I hope he does.
The sun hasn't even come up yet and you're drinking.
Hey, you saw that brown bitch point a gun at me last night, man. Did you think she was gonna use it?
I don't know.
You don't know?
No.
Come on. You don't think that after they called the cops on me, her and Mohammed had a nice laugh?
No.
No? Well, I disagree. I think they did. I think they probably went home last night and, you know, kicked off their sandals and had a nice laugh about the drunk on the corner, you know? Makes me sick.
What are, what are you doing? Look, Tim, just go home. Alright. Go home and sleep it off.
Well, what am I supposed to sleep off? My life? You know, I'm supposed to go home and go to sleep and when I wake up, what'll I be, Jeff? A pilot? Maybe a Super Bowl quarterback or, no, maybe a fucking rock star. Right? I don't think so, man.
Just go home, alright?
This is my home.
Why, why did you start this in the first place, man? They never hurt you.
They never hurt me? They hurt me every day with their attitude. You know, like they even have a right. Who the fuck do they think they are? Let me tell you something, I was born here. Alright? I'm an American. And I'm owed something. Look, they took it from me.
They're just people. Alright? They got feelings, you know?
What about my feelings? What about my fucking feelings? These assholes, they come over here, they know all the answers, right? Well, they don't know shit.
Will you just put the gun down?
No.
Just put it down.
Jeff, stay there.
He's got a gun. He's got a gun.
Well, then, there now, why don't you go inside and call the cops and I'll come in there and blow your fucking brains out.
Hey, wwhy don't you see if he's hiring, you know? Get an application?
That, that's Indian?
Tim, can we go? This is ridiculous.
Hey, Ma, look at me! Top of the world, Ma!
Jeff! Come up here!
Is that BeeBee?
Come on!
Twofifty.
Twofifty? They go up?
Always twofifty, my friend.
Can you tell me what happened?
He's drunk.
Uhhuh.
He causes problems. He was here earlier.
He says we got to be at the radio station at seven a.m. Can you handle that?
Oh, sure.
Great. Hi. I'm Erica.
Oh, Erica, this is my friend Jeff.
Hi, Jeff. Nice to meet you.
Jeff, Erica. God, it's so amazing to be back home.
Oh, wow.
I mean, we've been playing big places everywhere, but when we did that sound check at The Orpheum, it suddenly hit me. I'm playing The Orpheum, you know? I mean, the last time I played here was, uh, the prom.
Oh, you were excellent tonight, Pony.
We were?
Oh, yeah, it was a great show. You guys missed it.
I love writing. AAnne Rice? I love Anne Rice.
Short pieces, huh? You should try to write songs.
Mm.
He wrote this thing about his dick once and he read it in front of the whole class.
I'd love to read that.
Funny shit, man.
Hi.
Oh, uh, Erica? Erica is the publicist for the band.
Hi, I'm Erica.
Nice to meet you Sooze. Hi, I'm Erica.
Yeah, she, uh, works for the record company and takes care of interviews and, you know, shit like that, Uh, we were actually just doin' an interview and Erica said she's like to see Burnfield, so...
Um, motherdaughter.
Pony and I are friends.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, yeah, it's, you know, it's a bed and hot water.
It does look good.
It's coming along.
Thank you.
Erica, you coming?
Mmmm.
So you came by to see how the other half lives, huh? Well, here we are, What do you think? Pretty fucking pathetic huh? Kind of like one of those documentaries on educational TV?
It's nice here. It's different.
Yeah, totally. So, uh, what do they interview you about?
Hi.
Hi.
So you, like, come from a town like this or...?
No, not really. I come from an "area". Bel Air.
You rich?
No, not really. Middleclass.
Oh, me too. Middleclass.
Maybe uppermiddleclass.
Thinks he is. Well, he is.
He is?
Yes.
He is.
He is.
And you love him a lot. He bought you a BMW for your birthday, but you finally had to move out and get your own place. I mean, I know, it's time to leave the nest. Parents hate your smoking. You didn't tell them about the abortion. All your friends got boob jobs, you got the tattoo instead. Subscribe to Vaniety Fair.
You got everything right but the car. My dad didn't get me a BMW.
What'd he get you?
A Porsche.
Mm.
Yeah. So, what about you?
What about me? I don't have a car.
You just seem to know all these things about me and I don't know anything about you, you know. What kind of music do you like?
Military marching bands.
You think I'm rich and you hate me.
Now, how the hell would you know what I think? Hm? You don't know me.
I'd like to.
Oh, yeah?
Mmmm.
You know, it was the biggest mistake of my life.
Really?
Well, I mean, you have to understand I was just this dopey kid mopping floors and kissing officer ass. I mean, well, I enlisted right out of high school. So I just wanted something different in my life.
Mm.
"It's not a job, it's an adventure." Right? I hated it. I had to get out. So I was working in the kitchen, chopping lettuce, you know, real heroic stuff, and I, uh, I had this big fucking knife and I chopped off the tip of my little finger and three days later I was a free man.
You cut off your little finger?
Well, they, uh they were nice enough to sew it back on.
Let's see.
I mean, what is there to be happy about really? I mean, going to the gym, climbing the StairMaster, eating the yogurt, checking the voice mail. Smoking the lowtar cigarettes, shaving the bikini line. Sometimes I just want something different, you know?
What was your name again?
Erica.
Erica. So do you think you and I are alike, Erica?
Deep down. Way down.
It's a mistake to think that.
We could still talk, you know? It's nice to talk.
It's nice to do a lot of things.
That's what I mean.
I'm not a nice guy.
I know. It's okay.
Yeah?
Mmhm. I'm a big girl. I can take care of myself. If I didn't want to be here, I'd be in a limo right now with a bunch of kids looking for Chinese food.
No, no, see, you, you don't understand.
Hay? Yeah? So teach me a lesson.
It's okay. This kind of thing happens. It's just never happened to me. I'm sorry. It's true though. Mm. So, um, what's your TCB tattoo stand for? What's that about?
Taking care of business.
I'm sorry.
What's up guys?
Uh, you know, just admiring the scenery, you know?
You were a shitty lineman and now your a shitty cop. Yeah, blow me, I'm drunk.
Okay, come on. Time to slow down.
Who's going to slow me down? You, you fat pig.
Alright, get in the car before I have to embarrass you in front of your friend.
Hey, Gary, how's the divorce comin'?
Will you stand up for me?
Okay.
Come on. Inside.
Okay. We'll go for a ride.
Hey, yes! Hey, Pony, man! Great concert tonight!
Oh, you were there?
No, but I heard it was great.
Oh, thanks. Thanks.
So tell us, man. Party time, trashin' hotel rooms, babes around the clock?
Naw, naw, we don't have time for all that.
Oh, So what about her?
Yeah, we're all above that.
See, I wrote something about all this. Uh, it, it's a song about...
Well, play it, man.
No, no, no, no, no, it's new.
Please.
I just started it.
I don't care. I'm gonna drop it. I'm gonna drop it. I'm...
Don't drop the guitar, man.
Whoa!
No, no, whoa!
Hey, I'm glad you put truth in your song, man. That's important.
Hey, thanks, man.
Come on, man. Sh, sh, sh.
No man. He's probably the most famous guy that'd ever come in this place. You're lucky he's here.
Thanks. See man?
You know? I remember coming here with my parents.
You make videos?
Oh, yeah, all the time. That's what I do now.
You know what would be cool is, like, to do a music video, you know? But, like, you know, have it set in here. You know, like, like, like, with her and shit. You know, like, you know, like, "Closed, closed, closed, closed, closed, closed."
"Closed, closed, closed." But with your music.
You could do it.
I could.
Yeah!
Yeah.
I mean, do you have something I could show my manager? I mean, do you have a reel?
Yes!
Yeah!
A reel?
You okay, man? You okay?
I didn't want to eat this much, man.
Wait, I'll get you some air.
Hey, play that demo again, man. Alright.
Oh, man. Wow. I was never into football, you know?
Thanks, man!
I'll be in the car, okay?
Score! Yeah!
Hey, hey, seventwenty. Seventwenty.
He paid you man.
You owe me twenty cents. Come on, seventwenty. Seventwenty.
Yo! Your spitting rice all over us! God.
Hey, we're just having a conversation.
This is private property, my friend.
Look, look, look. You gotta go now, okay? The customers complain.
We're your customers. We're not complaining.
Please!
It's safe, come on.
That's it. That's it! I'm calling the police.
Hey, call the cops! Call 'em, call 'em right now, man. Maybe my cousin Jerry will show up. He'll definitely take your word over mine. You can tell him about the trespassing. I'll tell him about how you sell beer to minors.
Look, look, I'm not joking around now, okay? Come on, let's go, let's go!
You stand someplace else, man. You stand someplace else. This is our corner. You don't fucking own it!
Yes I do. My family owns it. It's ours. You don't belong here.
No, you don't belong here. We were here before you.
Pakeesa? It's okay. Come on. It's okay. Come on, they're just joking around.
Yeah, we're just screwing around. Like Mohammed said. Can't take a joke, man? Hey, I hope you got a permit for that, mama!
Yeah. Yeah, it's okay for you. It's okay. Enjoy yourself.
Are you talking to me?
It's okay.
Glad it's okay.
I'll tell you what. When I get my engineering degree and I'm swimming in my swimming pool, it will be very fucking okay.
Um, if you're talking to me, could you make some sense? 'Cause I don't speak Swahili.
In two more years I'll have an engineering degree. We'll sell the store, we'll move away from Burnfield and the store and you standing here.
Good. See you later.
You're a drunk and an idiot.
You're wife sucks my cock every night, swallows my cum and loves it. That's okay.
Yeah it's okay. You know, we have a saying back home: "Either the salt is rotten or the meat."
Yeah, well, uh, you're not so smart, chief, 'cause I'm moving out to L.A.
Ah, that's nice. They have many convenience stores there for you to stand in front of.
Yeah, he's told me. Burnfield. We all hear about Burnfield.
Mm. You know, does he tell you about how, uh, Jeff, Pony, started the band...?
Oh, you were in the band?
Yeah.
Your his publicist?
Sure I am. It's fun.
Mm. And your like, what else?
What do you mean? His girlfriend?
Well, that's one way of putting it.
Am I fucking him?
Shit.
Pony, what would you say our relationship is?
So, then, you're, like, available?
In what way?
Mm, in a horizontal and wet way!
Buff.
Buff is funny. God.
Yes! Free concert!
Alright, Pony!
Hey! Hey.
I'm so burntout.
Oh, how did you get burntout?
Playing with something really hot. Yeah.
Yeah?
Oh, my God, you found it. Thank you so much. Did you get your tape?
Yup. Hey, um, so, um, listen, man, I got to go show the tape to Danny at the hotel, and if I get the gig, Erica is gonna teach me how to surf in L.A.
Oh, I'll teach you how to surf even if you don't get the gig.
I can come visit?
You better! Yes!
I will.
It was really nice meeting you, Jeff. If you're ever in L.A., you should come by the offices. I talked to Pony earlier. He said he had a really nice time and he's really looking forward to reading some of your songs.
I don't think I like that guy's attitude at all. Hey, you know what? Take off the blades. I mean it. I'm gonna break your fucking legs. Take 'em off.
You're fascist, man. Neofascist.
Come on man.
Hey, don't tell us about private property. This is America, my friend.
Pony? What's a "pony"? You mean that geek who played the folk music at the senior prom? What's that guy's name? Neil Moynihan?
Oh, Pony's band "Dream Girls"? Been on the road opening for "Midnight Hore". Stadiums, man. Wait, so Pony's coming by here?
Hey! On behalf of Burnfield, I present to you the keys to the city.
So, how was the ride, kids?
Great.
Really?
They are old, we are young, they are fast, we are fun.
Buff, please, would you jus fuck off, okay? Fuck off!
Hey, man.
Hey.
Ah, you know people there?
I'm just gonna go. I figure the worst I can do is starve to death.
Fuck her! Come on, let's go.
Jeff! Let's go!
Hey, I'm Sooze.
Yeah, right, publicist.
Yeah.
Come on.
Play it! Come on!
Sure. You make art and you want people to see it.
Wait, what happened to the tree?
Hey, come on, man! Limo!
Hey, wait, where's BeeBee? BeeBee! BeeBee, where'd you go? Did you guys see where she went?
Really?
You know, I should, um, make a video of this place. You know, bring the camera in.
Guy should cut down on his caffeine intake.
Needs some pizza in his diet.
Oh yeah? Oh, how'd you ship it over there, man? Federal Express? Hm? By the time it got there it'd be way cold and coagulated. Total waste. Cheese be stuck to the cardboard.
Buff, that slice is the difference between life and death for some halfdead Bangladeshi.
Yo, your gettin' me all upset here.
You should get upset. Everyone should get upset. When, when Hitler was greasing the Jews, people were saying, "Don't get me upset. Your bumming me out." My duty as a human being is to be pissed off. Jesus Christ, not that it makes a difference on the first fucking place. Nothing ever changes, man. Fifty years from now we're all gonna be dead and there'll be new people standing here drinking beer, eating pizza, bitching and moaning about the price of Oreos, and they won't even know we were ever here. And then fifty years after that those suckers will be dust and bones and there'll be all these generations of suckers trying to figure out what they're doing on this fucking planet and they'll all be full of shit. It's all so fucking futile.
Your ability to fantasize is only exceeded by your ability to lie.
Oh, untrue, Jeffster. I think, uh, two weeks ago we attended a concert where I had fucked two girls.
Hey, it's me. No, that's, that's the ultimate liar of liars.
And your mom.
No, I'm here. Where are you?
Where are youhoo?
No, no, no, no, I don't wanna be stuck with the guy. I want the tickets.
Stuck, who? What guy? Huh?
Shut up! Aw...
Stuck with what guy?
What?
You said you didn't want to get stuck with some guy. What guy?
No, uh, nobody. It's, uh, it's my birthday this week and Sooze's brother might come by to wish me a happy birthday.
It's your birthday?
Yeah.
Well, shit! Happy fucking birthday!
But, so, Pony's comin' by here to the corner?
He's around and, you know, maybe he's coming by. Sooze told him to come by and hang out, whatever. It's no big deal. Me, him, and Sooze are gonna...
Pony's coming here to the corner?!
Yeah, no, it wasn't even my idea.
I don't know. Later. I don't know.
Yes!
Don't let 'em fight.
The dude wants it.
No, I seriously doubt that Pony's gonna be in a limo.
That's the rock star thing.
No, no.
Oh, I'll bet you he has a babe with him right out of a triplex video. Oh, oh, Pony, come on, give it to me! Stud! Oh!
Buff, Buff, Buff, Buff, Buff.
Sorry.
Jesus Christ.
You wanna bet he's with a girl?
No, he's not with a girl.
Oh, right. Oh, oh my God! Pony, it's so huge!
You know what? He probably gets bored with all that shit.
Oh, yeah, yeah. Wait, um, how do you figure that?
I'd get bored.
I wouldn't. If I were in his shoes, every morning I'd get up singing, man. Do my workout, take a shower, followed by a hearty breakfast, steak and eggs, washed down with a pot of hot coffee, six pack of Coors Lite. Then I'd order my bodyguard to go find my babe, who would appear decked out in her allblack leather Victoria Secret custommade bodysuit. So I'd, like, have to chew off all her clothes until she was completely nude. Except she'd have these amazing dragon tattoos all over her body and pierced nipples with little gold peace signs hanging from 'em. And then she'd take out this halfounce of blow, we'd snap out a few mondo lines, vaporize a few million brain cells, screw for about an hour, then spend the rest of the morning trashed watching Gilligan.
That sounds so great, man. Yes. Yes. Hey, what would you do in the afternoon?
Same, more of the same. Yep, just keep doing the same thing all the time, around and around the clock. With an occasional burger or slice of thrown in for our vitamins and energy. Then, instead of watching Gilligan, we'd watch Captain Kirk.
That sounds so depressing.
Oh, come on, man. Tell me you wouldn't love it!
No, I'm not saying that I wouldn't love it.
Ah!
I'm saying no, I'm saying after a while it'd wear thin.
Yeah, a long while. A long, long while.
Watch out for that tree.
A long, long, long, long, while.
Okay, okay.
A long, long, long...
Okay.
So, do you guys want to do something, go someplace or something like that?
So, we're all old friends of Pony's. We go way back to our childhood.
Go!
... idiot! Open the damn door! Go, go, go, come on!
You know what we should do? Go to the...
So you can do an album cover?
Fuck it!
You know what? Go with him. Just go with him.
In the limo!!!
Hey! Whoa, you look like shit. You been home yet?
No, no.
Huh? No, alright. Well, you know what we need? A hot cop of coffee. Hand on. Ohh, hey, I was up all night too, man. A long, long, long night.
Hey. Hey. Are you trying to get a hold of Sooze?
No.
Yeah. Get ahold of Sooze?
No, no, I wasn't trying.
She was at the Four Seasons last night, man. But you shouldn't worry about that.
No, I'm not, I'm not worried. I'm not worried.
No. Life is too short.
No, I'm not worried.
Good.
Uh, Buff, I'm, I'm, gonna tell you something and, uh, you got, you got, you gotta promise not to tell anyone, alright?
Sure.
No, I mean, no one.
Hey, you know me.
Buff, look at me for a second. No, this is serious.
Yeah.
Uh, last night...
Yeah, I should've stuck up for you, man, I know. You're my friend, she's your old lady.
No, no.
I feel really bad about that, but I was busy, you know, I mean...
No, look, this is not about Sooze, alright. Wait, wait, wait, wait. She stayed at the Four Seasons last night with Pony?
Yeah, we all stayed at the Four Seasons, man. It was party time. Hey, I hung out with Danny, Pony's manager. Really nice guy. We talked about the video. They want a raw look. Something fresh. Danny said if I can capture the reality of Burnfield, it'd make a great tape.
Okay, Buff, listen to me for a second alright?
No, I know what you're going to say. I don't know anything about making a video. But that's a plus.
No.
Because since I'm just starting out, I've got a fresh point of view, and that's good for, you know, marketing, demographics...
Buff, listen to me. Could you just
But I'd, I'd do it for free. You know, just for my reel.
Buff, can you listen to me for a second?
Oh, and guess who showed up.
No, shut up! Look, look, alright, Tim is in trouble.
I know, man.
You know?
Yeah, that's what I'm trying to tell you. That chick Erica?
What, they're looking for her?
No man, she showed up last night at the hotel. We has a great time together. I stayed in her room last night, man. What can I say?
Wait a minute, wait a minute. You saw Erica last night?
Yeah, I saw all of Erica last night, man.
Buff, you got to stop making shit up. It didn't happen.
Y ssure it did.
No. It didn't, Buff.
Wait. Hey, man.
Erica is in the van back there.
What?
Look.
Hey, man.
She's in the van.
What she doin' in the van, man?
Buff...
What?
She's dead.
She's dead?
Look, Tim confessed to me last night.
Tim...
Tim killed Erica. Tim's a murderer.
Bullshit.
No, no, no.
That's bullshit. That's total utter bullshit.
Oh, really? You wanna go look?
Yeah, man.
Let's go look, then. Let's go look, then!
It's bullshit. Look! Look!
Ow! Hey! Get the heck in there! Hey... Not dead! Definitely not dead!
Guess not.
See, I wasn't making shit up, man.
No.
God, Tim lied to your ass, man. That guy's sad, man. Well, uh, I gotta go, but, uh, listen, if I don't come back, I'll send a video of me surfing. Alright, man? Get some rest. Go with the flow.
Alright. 'Bye, Buff.
Want a beer? Is Pony coming?
No, thanks. I don't drink. Um, well, what'd she say? I mean, did she talk to him?
Yeah, we all want to see him. So when's he coming?
Yeah, when's he coming?
Hey!
Hey. Do you have a cigarette?
No I quit.
Hey, you said you did a video?
Yup.
What's it about?
It's really not about anything.
Oh. Well, what's it on?
A cloud.
A cloud?
Yeah. There was this cloud and I video taped it.
Oh.
I was doing schrooms and I saw this cloud. It looks excellent on tape. The video is like my head and, and everything, you know, is, like, is like in there that I see. You know? Plus, I'm gonna come down here one night and walk around inside the Circle A with the camera and tape shit.
Oh, that's so amazing. I wish I could see it.
You can see it. Whenever you want. Don't you, um, work at a hospital or something?
Yeah, I'm a nurse's aide at Mercy.
Your a nurse?
No, I, you know, I help 'em out. I empty bedpans and bring 'em lunch. That kind of thing.
Any gunshot victims?
Oh, some of 'em. But it's mostly just strokes and shit. I mean, most of 'em just sleep all the time and get kind of yellow. Usually they die id they're, you know, really yellow.
Sounds like a bummer.
Oh, no, it's not. I mean, they're not all totally in a coma. I mean, they know when I'm helping them.
Mm. Hey, what are you doing now?
Right now?
Yeah.
I don't know. Waiting, I guess. You know?
Do you wanna go to the van?
Now?
Yeah, we could hang out and smoke a dube, you know?
I don't smoke dubes and I don't really hang out. But I'll go back. Okay.
Okay, whatever you want.
That was really great.
Was it okay?
Yeah!
What did you guys think?
Slides go with it.
Behind me. I'm making these slides out of these old pictures and paintings and stuff.
It's called "Burger Manifesto, Part One The Dialectical Expression of Testosterone." Isn't that a great title?
Why is everything about you, Jeff?
Uhhuh.
I stand for something. And I'm trying to communicate something.
Responsibility, progress.
Yes.
Typical male.
Typical male.
Typical male.
Tim, he listens to you. Do you think it's a good idea? Seriously?
Uh, home, you know.
Yeah, I talked to your mom. I think I woke her up. I hope I didn't get you in trouble.
You didn't get me in trouble.
Uh, yeah, she should be coming by.
Uh, well, what'd she say? Is Pony coming?
I don't know.
We are?
Alright. She told him to meet us here. Fuck.
Mnhm.
"Burger Manifesto, Part One" is gonna make people think?
Umhm.
Wait. Racism? You don't know anybody who's black!
I just walked all the way from Westside to here. I haven't walked that far since junior high. I thought you didn't drink.
I don't anymore.
Can I have some?
Knock yourself out.
You know, one moment things are so fucked up than you look at it from a totally different angle and it makes sense.
Yeah.
Did you ever hear that saying, "This too shall pass"?
Sure, all the time, in Group.
In Group?
Rehab. Outpatient. I have to go once a week. It's kind of like AA.
Oh, yeah, you had to go to Highgate. That must've been intense.
Intense.
How long were you in there?
Uh, ninety days. And now I just have to go once a week. See, I'm rehabilitated.
Well, you shouldn't drink. Are you gonna drink?
No. Oh, maybe. Fuck.
I mean, that would suck if you had to go back to rehab.
Yeah, it would suck big time. I'd kill myself first.
It was pretty bad, huh?
It was like hell with windows. You know, there's shit on the walls. Kids my age sucking their thumbs. I mean, every day I would, I'd wake up in my cell and I'd think, my parents put me here. Why? Why? Because I stayed out all night one time. Uh, because I broke the VCR when I was drunk. Because I was out of control. I thought my parents loved me.
We were all riding around and it suddenly hit me what we were doing. We were getting off on the fact that we're in a car teen feet longer than all the rest. And I got out and I just started walking.
Yeah.
Well, what it was... I, I don't want to admit it, but, you know, I was jealous of Pony.
Well, sure, he's rich and he's famous. He's got everything and you've got nothing.
Yeah, but, when I was walking, I realized that he's stuck in that limo all the time. He's stuck with his interviews, he's stuck with his autograph, he has to do whatever his manager tells him to do, you know? He's not free. He's just part of the machine, and if you think about it, freedom's all that there really is.
Yeah, I guess.
You know? And it used to scare me so much that I didn't know what was coming in my life.
Mmhm.
You know, like, like, I would always think, uh, you know, what if I make the wrong move? But maybe there isn't any right move. You know? I mean, look at us. You know, we all dress the same, we all talk the same, we all fuck the same, we all watch the same TV. Nobody's really different, even if they think they're different. "Oh, boy, look at my tattoo, you know?" And see, that's what makes me freak. Because I can do anything I want, as long as I don't care about the result.
At the bottom of mines?
Yes. The radioactivity could not penetrate a mine some thousands of feet deep.
In a matter of weeks, sufficient improvements for a dwelling space could be provided.
But they couldn't come out for a hundred years!
Mister President, man is an amazingly adaptable creature. After all, the conditions would be far superior to those, say, of the Nazi concentration camps, where there is ample evidence most of the wretched creatures clung desperately to life.
It would not be difficult. Nuclear reactors could provide power almost indefinitely. Greenhouses could maintain plant life. Animals could be bred and slaughtered. A quick survey would have to be made of all the suitable minesites in the country, but I shouldn't be surprised if several hundred thousand of our people could be accomodatedd. Every nation would undoubtedly follow suit.
But who would be chosen?
A special committee would have to be appointed to study and recommend the criteria to be employed, but offhand, I should say that in addition to the factors of youth, health, sexual fertility, intelligence, and a crosssection of necessary skills, it would be absolutely vital that our top government and military men be included, to impart the required principles of leadership and tradition.
When they emerge, a good deal of present real estate and machine tools will still be recoverable, if they are mothballed in advance. I would guess they could then work their way back to our present gross national product within twenty years.
But, look here, Von Klutz. Won't this nucleus of survivors be so shocked, griefstricken, and anguished that they will envy the dead, and indeed, not wish to go on living?
Certainly not, sir. When they go down into the mine, everyone else will still be alive. They will have no shocking memories, and the prevailing emotion should be one of a nostalgia for those
In about twenty minutes we start losing height to keep under coastal radar. Cross in over the coast lowlevel, continue low level on zigzag legs to primary, and climb for bomb run. Any questions?
I've got one.
Shoot, Lothar.
Our targets are a missile complex and an airfield  not cities, right?
That's what I said.
Well, if there's a war, they must have hit us first.
What's your point, Lothar?
Well, if they hit us first, they've probably fired off their missiles and got their planes off the ground already. We'll just be hitting empty real estate.
Are you saying our order don't make sense?
Hellnno, Major. I was just trying to think the thing through.
Check target approach.
Bomb doors circuit is green, bomb release circuit is green, bomb fusing circuit is green.
Check, all bomb circuits green. Okay, Lothar.
When do you want to arm the bomb for the primary, Major?
As soon as I've checked over the route. About five minutes. All right?
Primary circuit is live.
Primary trigger switch.
Release first safety.
First safety.
Second safety.
Seond safety.
Fusing for ten thousand air burst.
Check, ten thousand air burst.
Master safety.
Master Kong.
Primary bomb is live.
All right, Lothat, that does it. Master safety on now until bomb run.
Master safety on.
Let's have a rundown on the damage, Lothar?
Everything still checks out okay.
Binky?
Yes, Major.
Lothar, get up here fast, and bring your First Aid kit! I'm hit kinda bad, I think.
Can't "Ace" help you?
He's dead.
What happened?
I bit his jugular vein. Now will you shut up and get up here???
Sure! Sure, I'm on my way.
Where'd they get you?
In the back...feels like an arrowhead.
How do you know he's dead?
Hell, he looks dead.
He's dead, all right.
Listen, give me a shot quick!
I don't know what we got left besides Bim and Bam.
Quentin, how's your gear?
No, look! It's "OPE  Recall Mistake."
Recall what mistake?
No, I think it means, "Recall period Mistake," and the OPE is probably the CRM114 code. Terry?
You sure have to hand it to those guys.
What do you mean?
I mean pulling a stunt like that.
What are you talking about?
What do you mean?
Well, we sure as hell aren't going home just because the enemy tells us to.
Wait a minute, Major. "OPE," that's the recall code. Where would they get that?
You tell me.
They must have gotten it from the base. No one else would know it.
Why should they call us back?
How the hell do I know? Maybe the war's over.
Lieutenant Zogg, what do our orders say about the authentication of orders during an attack mission?
Look, this is different.
Our orders warn us to expect the enemy to use ingenuity in issuing contrary and confusing orders. And therefore, to disregard anything that doesn't come on the CRM114.
But the CRM114 has been smashed for almost an hour.
Then that settles it, doesn't it?
Like hell it does.
The CRM114 is smashed, right?
Right. So how could we get any messages?
That's the point.
I don't get you, King.
I said that's the point!
Look, King, maybe you've lost too much blood, or something.
Lieutentant Zogg, how would you like your black butt slung into a General Court Martial when we get back???
Take it easy, Major Kong.
Then get off my back!
There are plenty of traitors and spies running around loose.
But the code is made up by General Ripper, and he's the only one left at the base who would know the code.
Nobody's loyalty is beyond question. Besides, how do we know one of his staff didn't see it?
Come on, King. That doesn't make sense.
Okay, how do we know they didn't shoot down one of our planes and torture the crew? How do we know that?
We crossed the coast over an hour ago. Okay?
You're giving them an awful lot of credit for being on the ball.
First lesson in War College: Never under estimate your enemy.
Sorry, King.
Forget it. Okay, team, let's break it up and get ready for the kickoff.
Who's that?
It's me  Lothar. Are you okay?
I'm okay. What's up?
Well, I hate to say this, but I think the bomb bay doors are stuck.
Are you sure?
Well, I can't get out and look, King. But I don't get a green light.
Maybe the warning system's out.
But I get a red light.
Have you tried the emergency system?
I tried everything. Something must have gotten bent or twisted from the pounding we took.
Lothar, can you arm the bombs for impact?
But I TOLD YOU, I don't think we can get the bomb bay doors open.
I asked you a question, Lothar!
But how are we going to drop the bombs if the doors won't  Hey, King....you're not thinking of  You don't mean you'd  ???
There's no other way, Lothar. Can you rearm the bombs for impact?
Let me check.
There's no other way, boys. I'm going to have to take her in...the hard way.
I think it's okay, King. They should go off on impact.
Would it matter if they hit at a flat angle? I mean, do you think the deuterium mass might separate from the atomic trigger?
Well, it would probably help if you took it ...sort of...straight down.
Roger.
We're on course, Major. Just fixed our position on that river back there.
What the hell are you doing here, Lothar?
I thought I'd go along for the ride.
Now what the hell did you want to go and do a thing like that for, Lothar?
I thought maybe you'd like some company.
King, would you mind if I keep me hands on the wheel when you take her in?
I'd be mighty proud if you did, Lothar.
Thanks, King. I've always wanted to take one of these big babies in.
Listen, Lothar. You know that crack I made about your...butt?
Forget it.
I just wanted you to know I didn't mean anything by it.
Sure, King.
Well, I just wanted you to know how I felt. Hell, I know Air Command wouldn't have taken you if you weren't okay. And don't think I don't know some of our best ballplayers and entertainers are of Negro descent.
Hey, King. Somebody at Burpelson has a very perverted sense of humor.
Yeah?
I just got another blast on the CRM114, and the damned thing decodes: Wing Attack, PlanR.
Wing attack, PlanR. That's exactly what it says.
Check your code again. No one at base would pull a stunt like that, Terry.
That's what I'm doing, and it comes out the same.
No, this looks like the real thing.
Yeah, it sure looks like the real thing, all right.
Okay. Check these points. Complete radio silence. To ensure that the enemy can't plant false transmissions and fake orders, the CRM114 is to be switched into all receiver circuits. The three code letters of the period are to be set on the alphabet dials of the CRM114, which will in turn block any transmissions other than those preceded by the code letters. You got it?
Roger, I'm setting up the CRM114.
Primary target the ICBM base at Laputa. One weapon fused for air burst at ten thou sand. Second weapon to be used if first malfunctions. Otherwise the secondary gets it  the airfield outside of Karnak. Fused air burst at ten thousand.
Lieutenant Toejam, are you ready for Bim and Bam?
Ready, Major.
Primary arming switch.
Primary arming switch.
I thought I should check out the damage first. My gear is busted up pretty bad.
Lieutenant Toejam's going to help you in a minute. Can you check your ECM?
So am I.
Listen, I think I'm hit bad.
Where'd they get you?
Damn you, Lieutenant Toejam! Lothar!
What does it look like?
Some kind of signaling.
No kidding.
Let's see...International Morse, I think ...K...E...O...P...E...R...E...C...A...L... L...M...I...S...T...A...K...E...O...P...E... Gee, I don't know, it seems to be some kind of code.
Yep, it's the CRM114 code, all right.
Very interesting.
Gee, we hate to leave you like this, Major Kong. But there isn't anything we can really accomplish by sticking around.
Forget it.
Listen, King, old buddy. On behalf
Skip it and jump, damn you! This flak's so close, I can smell it.
Then this is it.
What?
War.
War?
I'm sorry, Major Kong. I guess I was way out of line.
Forget it, Quentin. It can happen to the best of us. Now let's get squared away.
A through H is correct.
Main interference linked to electronic detector. Fight interference on readi ness state.
Check.
Missile and plane flight path computer showing four greens.
Check.
Zombies set to knock out local air defense four hundred miles from primary.
Missiles! Sixty miles off, heading in fast. Steady track, they look like beam riders.
Roger, keep calling them. Knock off autopilot, Ace.
Just the missiles.
They must have been fired from Bromdingna  probably one of their new Vampire  202's. They've got a range well over a hundred miles.
Fortyfive. Still coming straight and fast. Twelve o' clock.
Speed?
Between Mach 3 and 4.
Call them every five miles.
Thirtyfive, still straight.
Twenty! Twelve o' clock.
Maximum ECM!
Shouldn't be bad. Might even help. But my guess is we're going to have to paddle our way back.
We'll worry about that later. Okay, I'll take damage reports.
Yeah, I got it in the thigh.
Lieutenant Toejam, why don't you help him?
Why can't he help me now? He's sitting two feet away from me!
Come on, Quentin, isn't that pretty selfish, putting yourself ahead of the mission?
Look, I'm shot  it hurts.
Lieutenant Quiffer, we're all sorry you were hit, and we'll help you stick it together as soon as we get squared away.
Look, can't someone help me?
Roger.
Fighters closing fast  range fifty miles.
They must have made a visual contact.
Must be Mach twofive stuff. Altitude fifteen thousand.
They can't touch us at this height.
They're moving apart.
If they come down low enough to make a firing pass, they'll never be able to pull up in time.
I think they mean business.
Hang on, boys.
Sorry, King. My leg's stiff as a board.
Hey, Terry, I'm hit.
Well, listen, King. Could you take her up to about eight hundred? That'll help you come in at a nice downangle, and it'll give us a chance for our chutes to open.
Sure, I'll take her up to eight hundred.
Could you take her up right now, King? Other wise we'll get kind of close to the fireball.
Sure, I'll take her up right now.
What else could it be?
Maybe it's an exercise.
He's right. We wouldn't have started it.
They must have clobbered some of our cities already!
He's right. They must have clobbered some of our cities already.
The dirty, stinking, rotten, sons of B's!! They might have clobbered Marge and the
Maximum ECM.
Fifteen! Twelve o' clock.
Yeah, to see if we're on our toes.
No, they wouldn't send us in with bombs on an exercise.
Give me a first rough course as soon as you can, Lieutenant Ballmuff.
Roughly, onezerofive. I'll have it plotted in a minute, Major Kong.
I've got the heading, Major. Onethreeeight.
Roger. Onethreeeight.
Roger, maintain.
Lothar, take your checks now.
We should be crossing the coast in about six minutes.
Thanks, Binky. Can you see Bromdingna Island yet?
I don't think so.
All right...we're still flying. I'm taking her down to the deck.
Give me revs for maximum speed at sea level.
You know what that'll do to our fuel consumption.
Can't help it. What's the wind like?
It was a honest mistake, sir.
I presume the planes are armed?
I'm afraid so, Mister Presient. Being part of the airborne alert, each plane is carrying a full load  about fifty megatons apiece.
Well, what about the Positive Control, the safety catch? Don't the planes automatically come back unless they get a second order?
That's right, sir. But the planes were at their Positive Control points, ready to turn around when General Ripper issued the final Gocode.
And I suppose there's some reason why you haven't recalled them?
Yes, sir. The base commander, General Ripper, selected PlanR?
What the hell is PlanR?
Well, sir, PlanR is an emergency plan to be used by lower echelon commanders if higher echelons have been knocked out by a sneak attack.
Why can't you cancel it?
Once the orders have been given, PlanR requires any new orders to be received on the CRM114 in the aircraft. But the CRM114 will not receive any transmissions unless they are preceded by the proper threeletter code group.
And I suppose you're going to tell me you don't know what the threeletter code is.
Mister President, to guard against espionage, the three letter of the code group for PlanR are always selected by the lower echelon commander himself, just before each mission. They are sealed in the various attack plans and are known only to the lower echelon commander and his deputy. In this case the deputy is airborne with the Wing, and General Ripper refuses to recall the planes.
How soon until the enemy finds out what's going on?
We estimate the planes should be entering their coastal radar cover in about twentyfive min utes.
How could you let this happen, General Schmuck?
Mister President, I know you think I've let you down, but we had to have a PlanR. If we completely centralized the command and control, all a potential aggressor would have to worry about was knock ing out maybe half a dozen headquarters and the Capitol, and we'd be out of business. We'd have planes and missiles just sitting there while we were getting clobbered.
Then there's no chance for recall?
I should say practically none, though we have our communications center plowing through every possible threeletter combination. The trouble is that there are about seventeen thousand permutations, and it will take us approximately four and a half days to go through them all.
General Jack D. Ripper, sir.
I want to talk to General Ripper.
But we can't communicate with the base.
I don't think that's a fair analogy, sir.
Admiral Buldike?
But he'll hear everything we're saying. And if he just looks out of that window, he'll see everything we're doing.
That's the idea, General Schmuck. Zlat!
We don't operate like you KGB boys.
Knock it off will you, General? Crudley, find out what's holding up that call!
Have you received acknowledgements from every plane?
They're coming in now.
How long will it take to receive them all?
I'm not certain, Mister President. The boys in CONCOM do the pencil work.
I believe it will be just a few minutes, at the most.
How many planes did we lose?
I'm not certain, Mister President. But I believe it was four.
General Faceman, what was the name of the officer who called me from Burpelson?
General Schmuck, are you positive of your figures?
Naturally I am, sir.
He says they've only shot down three planes.
Well, if you choose to take his word over mine 
Look, he's there, and you're here.
Mister President, there were thirtyfour aircraft involved. Thirty acknowledged the recall. That makes four shot down.
Hello, are you still there?...Uhhuh...I'll be right back. We're still working this thing out.
How do you know they were shot down, Buck?
Well, just common sense, sir. Thirty from thirtyfour equals four, or my name's not "Buck" Schmuck!
Yes?
Well, sir, it looks like one aircraft, the "Leper Colony", failed to receive the recall.
Have you tried the recall again?
Yes, sir. We're still sending it. But it's a funny thing we don't seem to be able to make any contact with the aircraft at all.
What's the target.
Well, the Premier doped it out pretty well. Its primary is their missile base at Laputa.
Is there any chance a single aircraft can penetrate the entire enemy Air Defense, when its course and target are known?
If I can speak freely, sir  look, these guys talk big, but frankly, we think they're short of knowhow. You can't just take a bunch of ignorant peasants and expect them to understand a machine like one of our boys, and I don't mean that as an insult, Mister Ambassador. Hell, we all know what kind of guts your people have. Why just look how many millions of 'em those Nazis killed and, hell, they still wouldn't quit.
General, stick to the point, please.
Well, sir, if the A/C's a really good man, I mean really sharp, why he can barrel that plane along so low  well you just have to see it some time. A real big plane, like a Sting Ray, zigzagging in, its jet exhaust frying chickens in the barnyard  Has he a chance?.....Hell, yes! He has one hell of a chance.
You've lied to me twice  I'm sorry, but it will be strictly routine. These men are experts.
Zlat, make sure the secret service boys care fully search his seven body orifices.
What's the gun for, General Ripper?
Please don't take any notice of this weapon, Major. I love all weapons, and as of late, I've just taken to keeping a loaded weapon nearby at all times.
Sort of like a new hobby, huh, General?
That's right, Major.
I see you're playing your radio, Major. Isn't that contrary to my instructions for the personnel of this base?
Oh, it's not my radio, sir. I picked it up in the communications center.
I didn't mean for anyone to play anyone else's radio either, Major.
Yes, sir. General, can I ask a question?
Certainly, Major Mandrake. You're a good officer, and you can ask me a question any time you want to.
Well, General Ripper, sir  I was thinking  we're on a condition red, aren't we?
That is correct, Major.
And a condition red means enemy attack in progress, doesn't it?
You know the regulations well, Major.
Well, sir, I was thinking, if an enemy attack is in progress, how come the radio's still playing music? It's supposed to go off, and all we should hear are Civil Defense broadcasts.
That's a good question, Major. Maybe if you think hard, you can think of the answer yourself.
Well, I was thinking, maybe an enemy attack is not in progress?
And if that were true?
But then, sir, why have you issued the order: Wing attack, PlanR?
Because I thought it proper, Major. Why else would you think I'd do it?
Suppose that were the case?
But  why...that would be an awful thing to do, sir.
Perhaps, Major. Perhaps. Pour me a scotch and soda, please. And help yourself to whatever you like.
Don't fret about it, Major. There's nothing anyone can do about it now. I'm the only one who knows the threeletter code group for the CRM114.
I know that, sir.
We've come a long way since World War II, Major. And the lessons we've learned are all in PlanR.
I suppose they are, sir.
You're damned right they are.
How much soda, sir.
Just a squirt.
That about right?
Perfect. Thank you, Major. And now let's drink a toast.
What shall we drink to, sir?
To peace on earth.
General Ripper, can I ask another question?
Ask away, Major.
Well, General  I was wondering, why are you doing this? I mean why do you want to start the war?
I've given it alot of thought, Major. Don't think I haven't.
No, sir. I mean I didn't think you hadn't given it a lot of thought.
Do you remember what Clemenceau once said about war?
I don't think so, sir.
He said war was too important a matter to be left to Generals.
I see.
When he said it, fifty years ago, he might have been right. But today, war is too important to be left to the politicians. Do you follow me, Major?
I'm trying to, sir.
You see, Major, at this very moment, while we sit and chat, a decision is being made by the President in the War Room. He knows that the enemy will pick up our planes on their radar in about twenty minutes.
But when they do, sir, won't they hit back with everything they've got?
If we haven't taken any further action, they certainly will. Doyyourhappen to remember the statistics on our casualties in the event of a fullscale enemy attack?
Well, I think I remember reading the report on that. Wasn't it something like a hundred and sixty million?
That's close enough, Major.
But then why do you want to kill a hundred and sixty million of our people, sir?
You're being dense, Major. I certainly don't
I suppose we might catch them off their guard.
Our missiles would impact before my planes were even discovered by the enemy, wouldn't they?
I guess so.
I know so, Major. I know so. And add to that, the whole Air Command force being committed to clobber everything they've got.
But even then, we wouldn't get everything. I mean some missiles would abort, or they'd miss their targets, or maybe the enemy have some secret bases we don't know about.
You're absolutely right. You forgot to mention their nuclear subs. But it wouldn't matter. Sure we wouldn't get off without getting our hair mussed, but we'd prevail. I don't think we'd lose more than fifty million people, tops.
But if you just let things alone, we wouldn't lose anyone.
Major Mandrake, I guess you don't follow what's going on too closely, do you?
Where, sir?
Where? Everywhere, Major. Everywhere.
Well, I know they've been going on for years, and they haven't gotten any place.
Not yet, Major. Not yet.
And I guess they won't until they agree to let us inspect inside their country.
You're very naive, Major. Don't they say they want disarmament?
Yes, sir. But so do we.
But we mean it because we are a peace loving country. Are they a peaceloving country, Major.
I don't know, sir. But they're just as anxious to avoid a nuclear war as we are. War just doesn't make sense any more, for anybody.
But war doesn't make sense precisely because the weapons can kill an entire country  right?
Right.
Then don't you realize the Bomb gives us Peace not War? And, if that's the case, I ask you again: Why do they want disarmament?
Well, sir, like I said, for the same reasons we do. I mean, all the experts say the most likely way for War to start nowadays is by an accident, or a mistake, or by some mentally unbalanced person 
Go on, Major.
I was just going to say, as long as the weapons exist, sooner or later something's going to happen  and that'll be it for both countries.
I've heard the arguments. Like Napoleon's quote, "There's one thing you can't do with a bayonet, and that's  sit on it."
That's right, sir. And don't forget in a few years a lot of other countries will have the bomb. What if they start something?
Go on, Major. You fascinate me.
Well, sir, I remember an example that pointed out that if a system was safe on 99.99% of the days of the year, given average luck it would fail in thirty years.
I still ask, why do they want disarmament?
Well, for the same reasons we do, sir. Don't you see?
No, Major, I don't. They have no regard for human life. They wouldn't care if they lost their whole country as long as they won.
Gee, sir, that last remark doesn't exactly make all the sense in the world.
Major, you're talking like one of them!
Well, I'm not, sir. Honestly, sir.
Don't be offended, Major. Our President holds the same views.
Don't you think he knows something about this, General Ripper?
I'll tell you what I do think. If they say they're for disarmament, I say anyone who says they're for disarmament is either a traitor or a damned fool.
But, General, we're on our toes. We haven't agreed to anything for years. Inffact, a a lot of people say we never will.
But if they suddenly opened up and gave us the inspection we want, we'd agree, wouldn't we?
If they gave us what we think we need, yes, I guess we would.
And you'd like to see that?
General, what's good enough for the President and all the experts he's got working on the thing, is good enough for me.
Do you think we'd cheat?
No, sir. I'm sure we wouldn't.
Do you think they would cheat?
Look, sir. I'm no expert on the subject, but I've read some pretty sharp ideas the big boys have. Like, say, both countries agreeing to a million dollar reward and international protection for anyone who gives evidence of cheating to the inspectors. You can't hide those things without a lot of people knowing about it. And if I were going to try and hide a few, I wouldn't want to depend on the fact that some poor slob isn't going to run and blab for a million bucks. We're as smart as they are, and if they cheat, or even hold back information, we'd pull right out.
Major, I hate to say this, but I think you've been enemy indoctrinated, and you don't even know it.
Major, those are my boys out there dying.
Yes, sir. Why don't you stop the fighting, sir?
To peace on earth, Major.
Peace on earth.
General, now that you've done that, I beg you to recall the Wing.
Major, I happen to believe in a life after this one, so I believe I will have to answer for what I have done. I think I can.
Combat Operations Center, Major Mandrake speaking.
This is General Ripper speaking.
Yes, sir.
Do you recognize my voice?
Certainly, General. Why do you ask, sir?
Why do you think I ask?
I don't know, sir. We just spoke a few minutes ago.
Youddon't think I'd ask if you recognized my voice unless it was important, do you, Major?
No, sir.
Good. Has the Wing confirmed holding at Xpoints?
Yes, sir.
All right, Major. I'm putting the base on condition Red.
Condition Red!
That's right. I want this flashed to all section immediately.
Yes, sir. What's up, General Ripper?
You're a good officer, Major Mandrake. You have a right to know. It looks like we're in a shooting war!
A shooting war!
Yes, Major. This looks like it's going to be it.
But...what kind of a shooting war? Have they hit any of our cities yet?
Major, that's all I've been told. Just got it on the red phone. The base is to be sealed tight. And I mean tight.
Yes, sir.
Let me worry about that, Major. I've still got my red line to the Air Command.
That's right, sir.
We don't want to be vulnerable to saboteurs calling up and pretending to be different people from the President down, do we?
You're right, sir.
No calls from inside out. No calls from outside in are even answered. No calls.
I understand, sir. Nothing comes or goes without your personal sayso.
No calls at all. With or without my sayso. My voice can be imitated too, Major.
Yes, sir. I just thought of something, sir. How do I know I'm talking to you now?
Who do you think you're talking to?
To you, sir. But how do I know?
Are you trying to be insubordinate?
No, sir.
I hope not. Now, as soon as you do what I told you, have PlanR radioed to the Wing.
PlanR????
Are you hard of hearing, Major?
No, sir. PlanR to be radioed to the Wing.
As soon as you've done that, shut down the communications center. Lock it up and assign the personnel to base security details.
General Ripper, if I shut down the communi cations center, there'll be no radio or teleprinter contact with Air Command head quarters or anyone, for that matter.
Are you questioning my orders, Major?
No, sir. I'm just bringing the facts to your attention, sir.
You're a good officer, Major, and you're perfectly right to bring these facts to my attention.
Thank you, sir.
Now, as soon as you've done that, double up on all base security teams. Our enemies are plenty smart, and there might even be an attack on the base by saboteurs.
Yes, sir.
And lastly, all privately owned radios are to be immediately impounded. They can be used to issue instructions to saboteurs. Air Police will have lists of all owners.
Yes, sir. One thing, Mister President.
Yes?
Under a condition red alert, the base will probably be sealed off and defended by the base security troops.
I am aware of what a condition red alert implies.
Well, sir, they may not allow the Special Service troops to enter the base.
That's a very wise deduction, General.
Thank you, sir. But what shall I tell them to do if they are denied entrance?
Under the circumstances, General, what would you think they should do?
Well...I suppose penetrate the base by force.
You see, you knew the answer all the time, General.
But that would mean some of our own boys will get hurt, Mister President.
What do you suppose is going to happen if General Ripper's planes start bombing their targets?
That certainly would be a problem, sir.
I didn't speak to him, sir. But Colonel "Bat" Guano was in command of the Special Service battalion, so I would imagine he did.
I want him upped to Brigadier General, and recomended for the D.S.C.
Yes, sir.
Well, Mister President.
What kind of trouble?
Well, sir, about fortysix minutes ago one of my base commanders, General Jack D. Ripper, sent out attack orders to the thirtyfour B90's of the 843rd Bomb Wing, under his command.
General Schmuck?
Yes, sir. He issued attack orders to 
May I be stupid enough to inquire WHY IN HELL THE BASE COMMANDER OF THE 843d BOMB WING DID A THING LIKE THAT ???
To be perfectly honest, Mister President, we really aren't sure.
You aren't sure!
Not exactly, sir. You see, Colonel Puntrich at Air Command HQ received a call from him about twenty minutes ago. He asked General Ripper if he had issued the Gocode and the attack order, and General Ripper said: "Sure, the orders came from me. They're on their way in, and I advise you to get the rest of Air Command in after them. My boys will give you the best kind of start, and you sure as hell won't stop them now." Then he hung up.
Damn it! Damn it! I've been telling you all for years you've got too damned many psychoes in the service.
Be fair, Mister President. Didn't we initiate the Human Reliability tests for all personnel handling nuclear weapons?
Buck, when I told you to give them right up to the top, you said we couldn't insult a general officer by asking him to pass a test to see if he's a psycho.
Just a second, sir. He's got films of the War Room in that thing!
I'm afraid I'll have to ask you to take the film out.
Yes!
General Schmuck?
Yes! Who the hell is this?
Go back to sleep, baby.
What did you say, sir?
I didn't say anything. What's the meaning of disturbing me at this hour, Colonel?
General Schmuck, we monitored a trans mission about six minutes ago from Burpelson Air Force Base, HQ 843rd Wing. It was apparently directed to their Wing on air borne alert. It decoded as  Wing attack, PlanR.
Colonel, you're not drunk, are you, man?
No, sir.
Then why bother me with this nonsense? Get in touch with the base commander.
Well, that's ridiculous. If the teleprinter and radio links are out of order, just pick up a phone and pay for a call.
I know it sounds crazy, sir, but we tried, and nobody answers any of the telephones.
Does the threat board show anything?
Well, that's the funny part of it, too, sir. It doesn't show a damned thing.
I'm sorry, sir. General Schmuck is asleep and he isn't taking calls until eightthirty.
What is your name, young lady?
Ceida Pietraszkiewicz.
What did you say?
Ceida Pietraszkiewicz...P...I...E... T...R...A...S...Z...K...I...E...W... I...C...Z.
Now look here, Miss Pietraszkiewicz, this is Air Command Headquarters calling.
I did that for your own good, fella. Now I'm not going to pull rank on you. When this is over, I'll be happy to step outside with you and settle this thing. Right now my orders are to locate General Ripper and put him on the phone with the President.
Well, you can't do that because he's dead.
Do you have any witnesses, Major?
What?
What happened, Major? Some kind of private beef between the two of you?
Look, I didn't shoot him!
We'll have to leave that up to the C.I.D. boys, won't we, Major?
Look, Colonel. I've got to talk to somebody at Air Command.
Don't worry, Major. Your rights will be fully protected.
Colonel, don't you know what's going on?
Sure I do. There was some kind of mutiny on the base, and you killed General Ripper.
Look, General Ripper went off his rocker and ordered the 843rd Bomb Wing to attack with Hbombs.
You must think I'm an awful sap, Major. Just sit down, fella, and keep your hands on the desk!
Didn't they tell you?
They told me, Major. And I didn't hear anything about any atomic attack.
Look, Colonel. You keep me covered, but let me just pick up this red telephone that connects to Air Command headquarters. Okay?...I won't play any tricks on you... Okay?
Okay, fella. But just move slow and don't do anything that might surprise me.
Sure...sure, Colonel. Now look, I'm picking up the phone...nice and slow. Right?...Hello? ...Hello? Hello?...Hello?...Gee, it must be edad. Probably the lines were hit during the fighting.
Now look, I'm picking up this ordinary telephone. See?...Hello?...Hello?... Nuts, the lines must still be disconnected. The General had us disconnect...
Look, Colonel. Maybe it's too late. Maybe they've sent Air Command in already. But we've got to try to con tact somebody.
On your feet, fella. I've got to get outside and see how my men are.
Okay, Colonel. But look, there's a pay phone just outside in the hall. Maybe that works, huh? Maybe it'll work? What do you think?
You've wasted enough of my time, fella.
Wait a minute. The President!! That's it! The President!!!
What about the President?
He wanted to talk to General Ripper, didn't he?
So what?
Well, I'm General Ripper's Executive officer. He'll want to talk to me.
Operator...How much would the call be stationtostation?...Thirtyfive cents cheaper?...I'd still be short twenty cents ...Just a second, operator... Colonel, shoot the lock off the Coke machine. There's bound to be enough change in there.
That's government property, Major.
Colonel, remember, a reprimand from the President can be pretty serious to a career officer...Just a second, operator, I know I have it somewhere.
Major?...Major? I'm Colonel "Bat" Guano, 701 Battalion.
Come in...come in... Peace On Earth... Peace On Earth...yes...
Why are you saying that phrase over and over again?
I think that just might be it! Although it could be RikiTikiTavi.
What are you talking about, Major?
The threeletter code group. Or maybe some combination of the three letters. P...O...E, or P...E...O, or E...O...P... let's see, there would be six possible combinations.
Get a grip on yourself, Major!
It might still be worth trying RikiTiki Tavi. R...T...T...There's only three combinations of  T...T...R, or T...R...T...
Now, snap out of it, fella!
Who the hell do you think you are, sir???
Premier Belch will not be fooled by this fantastic lie.
Mister President, are you going to let this stooge talk to you like this?
Don't you dare touch me! What the devil do you think you're doing?
I caught you redhanded, Mister Ambassador.
Give that back to me.
What do you think of this, Mister President? I told you we shouldn't let him in here.
Do you mean to say you'd set it off in your own country?
Naturally. It would kill us just as surely even if we set it off in your country. But this way we know it's safe, and we don't have the problem of delivering it.
Mister President, I can't buy this malarkey; they wouldn't set the damn thing off. Why should they?
You're absolutely right. We wouldn't. No sane nation ever would. That's why it was designed to trigger itself automatically.
Then all you have to do is untrigger it.
Ah, but if we were able to untrigger it, that would be defeating its purpose. All our enemies would have to do, would be to warn us in advance that they were going to violate one of our unalterable triggering conditions. We would bluff, naturally, but in the end we would be insane not to untrigger it. Now we can say: There is no point trying to intimidate us, we don't control the Doomsday Machine.
Perhaps you gentlemen would like to check with the source?
You mean you'll tell us his name???
It's not a he, General. It was an article in the "Times" about a year and a half ago.
Please, Mister President, I am extremely shy and do not wish to endure this sort of personal humiliation. Here is the only other camera I have left.
See! See, I told you.
My seven body orifices????
That's right, fella.
One, two... three, four... five... Why you, dirty, stinking...
Please be calm, Ambassador De Sade.
You will not get away with this vicious attack on our peaceloving people.
Warmongering bully! Don't think you're going to intimidate me!
All right, Mister Ambassador! But you must treat General "Buck" Schmuck with the respect due him.
Can I have a glass of water?
Certainly  how about some breakfast?
Possibly some coffee?
Moffo!
Thank you, Admiral.
Now, Mister Ambassador. In a very few moments we should have Premier Belch on the phone. I intend to tell him exactly what has happened. I merely want you to authenticate certain facts for him.
The food  you wouldn't put  anything in it, would you?
Don't be ridiculous.
I have your word, Mister President?
Yes, of course.
Where are you trying to reach him?
At his office in the Capitol.
If he's not there, try... 87  43  56.
Did you get that, Kulnick?
What's the meaning of this?
I am sorry. Subminiature photography is my hobby. It's amazing what excellent en largements you can make from the negative.
I'll hold this, if you don't mind. You can have it back when you leave.
Well, it has been explained to me that, if you add a thick CobaltThoriumG jacket to a nuclear device, the radio activity resulting from such a nuclear explosion will retain its lethal power for a hundred years.
Our scientists calculated that the detonation of fifty of our biggest nuclear devices, jacketed in CobaltThoriumG would enshroud the earth in a hundred years of lethal radio activity from which no human life could escape. In ten months the Earth would be as dead as the Moon.
Where is this...thing?
It is buried somewhere in the Grudd Mountains.
Mister Ambassador, what on earth possessed your country to build this weapon?
First of all, economic reasons. It was cheap. The entire project cost just a fraction of what we spent in a single year on our various space and missile programs. It also seemed ideal in most other respects. It was terrifying, convincing, automatic, and extremely simple to understand.
But, finally, one factor tipped the scales. We received information from a very re liable source that your country was going to build one.
That's preposterous! We have no such program!
The source was...shall we say, completely reliable.
The report is entirely untrue. I can assure you of that.
Yes?
Allow me to assure you that my government will not be satisfied with a polite note of regret for this shocking example of aggression against our peaceloving people.
Damn you, de Sade! You know as well as I do that this was the act of a mentally sick man  a single individual, whose crackup can probably be traced to the strains and tensions caused by your country.
It is very convenient to place all the blame on a dead man.
How dare you talk to me in this manner?
This dreadful accident could never have happened if your government hadn't cynically and hypocritic ally blocked every proposal we made for disarmament or arms control!!
Bah! All you wanted to do was spy in our country!
That's nonsense, and you know it!
I know nothing of the sort!
Surely, you don't expect us to destroy our weapons without being able to verify that you are doing the same?
And surely you don't expect us to let you spy in our country before you destroy your weapons.
Don't you realize that despite your incredible distrust and suspicion, that in fact, you place a far greater trust in us than inspection would require? You trust us not to cause a war accidentally  and, of course, we are obliged to place the same trust in you.
And now, Mister President, I must return at once to my embassy to communicate this reassuring news to the Premier.
Goodbye, Mister Ambassador.
We have many splendidly deep mines in our country.
Excuse me, Mister President, but you forgot to give me my camera back.
Oh, yes, that's right.
Just what the hell is he talking about?
We've...been developing a product... KZ 70709.
Of the separate chemicalsI don't know, uh, offhand
How much of this shit do they have, White!!
They must have got their hands on a test vial!
What does that mean?
There's enough in one vial...
Our traveler's insurance, you know what I mean?
Gotcha. We've been filling barrels all daywe've got hell of a stockpile.
Good.
I say we head out.
Agreedlet's move it.
Are you hungry? We can discuss some final arrangements over some slop in the galley.
Captain it would be impossible to turn down such a gracious request.
My crew is going to work alongside with your men, don't worrywe're a team!
Why should I worry? Is there a problem?
Well, there was uh, a little dissent about the amount of the bonus
Dissent?
You know, when we reach Kompong Som
Are we adrift
If I don't get power up we are!
Drop the anchor!
We can'tit's power driven!
Get your men to do it!
The thing weighs more than a ton you want to roll up your sleeves and try it?!
How goes the roll call?
We're secured. Takeover team is in position and accounted for.
Have you broken it yet? We've got six more heads and that means six more hours.
I'm in to the directory but they've codified the stockpilenumerically.
Of course it's codified! Each number probably corresponds to a compound. Have them pull every compound from the lab and compare it to the codes till you figure it outthat's what you're here for.
I know what I'm here foryou don't need to remind me.
Something tells me you don't want to be on TV, friend.
Richterwe got a problem!
KZ...70...70...nine. It checks out.
Excellent...excellent!
Where the hell could they have gone!
What are you so worked up about jack? Fuck 'emwe don't need 'em.
I want the girl. I don't care about the restbut a US congresswoman taken hostage will make for great copy. We'll make headlines all over the world...
You're fucking crazy Richteryou know that?
What's happening at the waterfront?
We're almost done piping in directly to the Olympia. Should have it all in about an hour or so.
Excellent.
This was taken when Richter was arrested in Washington state, 1985. He was charged with interstate arms trafficking, skipped bail, and has since been a fugitive.
Chemco is willing to deal with him, meet his demands. I can have the money there in an hour.
Andof course there is the human cost, which is incalculable.
I'm sure you'll figure it out.
Who's Ryan Cooper?
I'll let the senator tell you.
And what exactly do they intend to do?
The ball is in Richter's court. But we're sure as hell not going to sit on our hands while he assassinates peoplewe're gonna stop the sonof abitch!
I don't think yougraspthe situation, Mr. Myers.
So, what are we looking at White?
What do you mean?
What do they have in there that's so valuable? A cure for AIDS, a cure for cancer?
I assure you gentlemen if we had something of that magnitude it wouldn't be shelved in a lab somewhere...
Is there anything in there that can blow? We have to be ready for any contingency
Mister Myers it is a chemical plant! There are a number of volatile compounds but they are safely stored away...
Chemco makes many things senator! We were under government contract!
I haven't been briefed on any such thing!
Apparently, this project isunique. But it's heavily protectedall formulas are heavily codified!
What the hell is it, anyhow?
Well, it's a binary formulaa precise amount of two separate chemicals must be exposed to the nitrogen in the atmosphere simultaneously for it to work.
How much do they have?
He wouldn't take it on the helicopters. He'd transport it through pipelines that connect Chemco to the waterfront...
What!
They were probably topping off a docked tanker while he stalled for timewithout anyone being the wiser...
Came over the satellite. We're keeping the bird clear should they call back.
She's still alive.
The transmission is an hour old...
Well?
We've prohibited the networks from broadcasting the transmissions.
Good.
We have a special forces squadron out of Thailand surrounding the compound as we speak.
Why the hell didn't you tell us this was at stake!
Chemco's been developing nerve gas?
What about Cooperwhere is he?
He's in there...
Looks like Richter isn't acting alonehe's heading into some dangerous waters.
She's as good as gone...
You can't think like that! We're watching them like a hawkhe's bound to trip up, make one false move
Enjoying the tour so far?
Are you going to kill us?
I don't know. If you gave me a reason to...
Go fuck yourself...
Hey now! No cussing on TV! Well in closing I'd like to say that there are two reasons to have that money outside in an hour. One is my perky coanchor here, and the second is the lives of tens of thousands of peoplepeople just like you and me!
I hope you don't mind all thisit's just that the networks will eat it up, you know...
You're going to pay for this...
You got it all backwards, Helenbut that's OK, you work for the government...
You understand that they're watching our every move right nowyou think you're just going to sail away?
It seems to me we are just sailing away. They haven't sunk us yet, have they? Besides, don't you worry your pretty little head about that. It's all been taken care of.
I know you're not too happy at this point. It's too bad we weren't able to meet elsewhere, under different circumstances...
Like wherein your dreams?
I suppose...you think I should thank you.
Yes, you should.
You see, it paid offyou broke away from the old guard, congresswoman. It won't be long till they're calling you Senator Filmore
Shut up!
Come on, drink up.
I don't want any...
I insist...
I said I don't want any, goddammit!
I have a lighter!
Even better.
How well do you know this place?
We're on sublevel six. We'll pass some labs and then we'll hit the stairwell
Are the labs in operation?
I don't see why they wouldn't be.
Good...
How's the arm?
It's nothing to worry about.
We wouldn't have made it out without you. FILMORE Or without you.
That's it! Up ahead!
Where does it lead?
The maintenance hatchit takes us outside the building!
I'll lead.
Why? Are we going dancing?
I said I'll lead.
What are you going to do, Cooper, throw yourself on a Bunsen burner? It's a bunch of businessmen touring a lab. We'll be out in no time.
I gotta keep you aliveit's in my contract.
If you're working for me you're going to do what I tell you.
Just get me a coke and don't argue with me, OK?
I'm not arguing. I'm just telling you what the deal isCongresswoman.
Look Cooper I don't care what my father says, if you embarrass me here you're going to regret it, understand?
Anything else? Maybe a sandwich?
Just the soda, please. Cooper heads down the hall. Filmore watches him leave, sighs, then turns and smiles at the General manager:
What are we going to do!
Who's got matches?
What now?
We're outta here
be prepared.
We don't have time!
Yeah and we don't have much ammo either!
Let's move it we got company!
What happened!
Forget about it.
I wasn't angry with you I was angry with him.
He's a very stubborn man sometimes...
You should listen your old man more often. He's got principles.
What do you mean?
After Leizburg, he stuck his neck out to defend me. He's loyal to the end. Even if it's notpolitically correct at the time.
What's that supposed to mean?
What do you think?
Let me tell you something Cooper! I never once badmouthed him during all those months
No but you didn't defend him either! Didn't want to rock the boat. Guess the ride was too smooth. FILMORE I was acting under legal counsel!
Cooper...
Yeah?...
I drew my gun, ran in the direction of the cries...violating the first rule of service...I let the Ambass ador out of my sight.
What happened?
By the time I got back to the party our ambassador was facedown, in a bed of bloody azaleas.
You're a lot like my father, Cooper... you think with your heart.
Used to Filmore, used to.
Now what?
There's the fence...
I'm going first. Taking the fire. If we go out together we're all dead!
What are you talking about?
They probably have guards on the roofand they're gonna be firing at menot you! ATKINS What makes you so sure?
Because I'll be firing at them.
You're talking about committing suicide!
What about rule one: never let the person you are protecting out of your sight!
Rule two: without alternative, use yourself as a shield.
Well Filmore
Well Cooper...
Looks like you're not going to make that dinner after all...
I guess not Cooper...
I don't know what hit us! We had them trapped on the stairwell. They could be anywhere now.
I now understand the expression "you get what you pay for!" A bunch of chumps!
Listen man, I don't need this shit
We got trouble. That bodyguard son ofabitch has them running all over the fieldjust took out three on the north end!
Well get someone down there!
There isn't anyone! He's opened that whole sector now!
Is he with the girl?
I don't knowlook! They can get in now, man! We got no one left to guard it!
Henry, what exactly are these crazed gunmen demanding?
Ththey want ttwentyffive million dollars cashor Chemco will be destroyed.
Twentyfivemillion! And what will they do if the money isn't delivered?
Thththey'll kill one hostage every hour until it is
Does that include Helen Filmore, United States congresswoman?
Yyes
Uhoh! Do you know if the demands are being taken seriously at this point, or does Washington think these people are just a bunch of crazy fuckers playing games?
Well, II hope thatthat
Times up!
You a pervert?
No...Actually, I'm a documentary filmmaker?
Oh. You mean, like, Blair Witch Project?
Well, no. I'm doing one on high school students, in fact.
What for?
Well...it's kind of a sociological study in the aftermath of Columbine.
Is this to like get into Sundance?
Yeah, well, it's possible they would be interested in it.
Doubt it.
Actually, there is some interest from the Sundance Channel.
Whoopee.
HBO and MTV have also shown some interest.
So like, yeahI caved in. I mean, I had to. My parents, they're like still really depressed about Brady. So I wrote the bullshit essay. Filled out the applications, did the interviewsY'know, I figure I can always drop out.
So where'd you get in?
Prnceton.
But what did you get on your SATs?
200 verbal/710 math. Kinda weird, I know. But I think they thought it was, like, goodweird.
Hey, um, Toby? I was wonderingIs the documentary almost finished?
Uh, yeah, we're getting there.
Can I see what you have so far?
Sureumyeah, as soon as I have a screening I'll let you know.
Thanks man.
What is most important to you?
I dunno. I'd like to be good at something. It doesn't have to be TV. I mean, it could be movies...Anything. I'd be willing to direct.
Uh, Scooby, now I understand how you want to be a TV talkshow host and all, like Conan O'Brien, but did you know even he went to college?
He did?
Yeah. He went to Harward.
Oh.
Oh, my God, Scooby! I'm so sorry...I'm so, so sorry...
Don't be. Your movie's a hit.
Pretty cool, Stanley.
Thanks.
How'd you get it?
It's my Dad's He hides it under some old TV Guides in his closet.
Gee, your Dad's smart.
I know.
Is it loaded?
No, I don't think so...
Scooby, don't! Be careful!
I'm not an idiot, man. I watch TV.
I Know. I'm sorry. I'm just...a little nervous, I don't know why.
You should be.
Scooby?
Yeah?
You know...I like you.
Yeah. I know.
I mean...
You want some?
No, thanks.
Hello?
Hello, is this Pam?
Who is this?
Toby Oxman.
Toby ? Oh, hi! How are you?
Oh, fine. How are you?
Great!
Great!
So what's going on?
That's what I was gonna ask you.
But...you called.
Oh, yeah, well...um...I was just calling because, well, I was wondering if you still remembered me, which I guess you do...
Yeah.
So. Look at where we are: the year 2000! Can you believe it? I mean, did you ever think we would actually make it?
Um, well, yeah. So are you still acting?
Oh, no, not any more. No, um, I kind of came to terms with myself, I realized I had done what I had to do. And it was time to move on.
Oh. So what did you do after you gave up on acting?
Well, I went to law school, if you can believe that.
I believe it.
Yeah, well, it was really all kind of a joke  and a ripoff, so, uh...so I dropped out.
Oh, that's too bad.
Yeah, well, then it got me writing, so that was a good thing.
Anything I might know about?
Well, um, I kind of let things go on this novel I'd been really into  I mean, the whole publishing industry is totally corrupt. I mean, really, it's finished.
That's too bad.
I worked over at a homeless shelter for a while, drove a cab to pay the rent, but, I mean, that was like  I mean, I have some dignity.
That's good. So then what do you do now?
I'm a documentary filmmaker.
Oh? Anything I might have seen?
Nnot yet. I'm hoping to get a grant for this one project on teenagers. Geez, remember when we were teenagers?
Yeah. You didn't wanna take me to the prom.
Oh, I don't remember that...
I do.
Well, but it was so long ago. We were so different back then...
Uh, well, anyway, so I'm looking for subjects for this documentary on teenage life in suburbia. Kind of an exploration of the mental psyche of its mythology. I wrote to Derrida to see if he'd like to do the narration. But everything's still kind of in development at this point.
Hunh.
That's good.
Yeah...um...so anyway, tell me. What about you? I'd heard through the grapevine you were producing movies.
Yeah. But not any more.
Oh. Tired of 'life in the fast lane'?
Yeah...So you're um...you're married?
Yeah.
Huh. Kids?
Yeah.
How many?
Three.
Great. How old are they?
Eight, six, and four.
Wow, that really is great. In a few years, who knows, maybe they'll want to be in my documentary!
Listen, Toby, I can't really talk right now. Do you mind if I call you back?
Yeah, sure.
OK. Bye.
Maybe she has caller ID.
No, not really.
Any books you like to read for fun?
No.
None at all? How about those 'underground' comics?
I hate reading.
All right, Scooby, let's not beat around the bush. With your attitude, you're not going to get in anywhere.
OK.
'OK.' So you just don't care. Let me ask you, not as your guidance counselor, but...as a friend: what do you want to do with your life? I mean, what kind of longterm goals can you possibly have?
I dunno...
C'mon. Talk to me. Tell me what you're thinking.
Well, I mean...I wanna be on TV. Maybe have a talk show or something. Like Conan. Or early Letterman.
Ahhah. And how is it you hope to achieve this goal?
I dunno. See if I have any connections.
Hello, Vi.
What are you doing here?
What are you doing here?
I'm sorry. I didn't mean, I just didn't expect to run into you here, that's all.
Well, now you have.
Yeah, um, then...are you alone?
Uh huh.
Can I join you?
You're not.
Good. 'Cause I...um...I really agreed with everything you had to say last week about how bad my story was...
That's good.
And I also agreed with what you said today about Marcus's story. It is a piece of shit.
You have beautiful skin.
Thank you. So Catherine seems like she might become a really good writer.
Maybe. She's OK.
Aren't you going out with Catherine? I'm sorry. It's none of my business. I didn't mean...
I'm not 'going out' with Catherine.
Oh. Do you think I have a potential as a writer?
No.
Thank you for being honest.
It's over there.
Thanks.
It's a really nice place you have. Is the rent high?
Take off your top.
Oh, bu...uh...I can't say that.
Say, Ni...
Ni...
...gger.
...gger.
Say, 'Nigger.'
Nigger.
'Fuck me hard!'
Fuck me hard!
Say, 'Nigger, fuck me hard!'
Nigger, fuck me hard!
Again!
Nigger, fuck me hard!!...
Again!!
NIGGER, FUCK ME HARD!!!...
I just want to know what the hell he's doing in his room that's so interesting he doesn't come down for dinner.
Maybe he's building a bomb...just like!
Mom, it's not fair if Brady can say the fword and I can't.
Yeah, well, Mikey, listen up. Cause here's a lesson: life's not fair.
Dad?Do you think that Brady will ever get better?
One in a million recover.
Maybe he's that one in a million!
Mikey, there's optimism, and then there's stupidity. It's a very fine line.
I don't think there's any hope, either. I was just trying to make you feel better.
Thanks.
You're welcome. Dad?Would you let me try hypnotizing you now?
Yeah. Sure Go ahead. Hypnotize me.
OK. Stay there. I'll be right back.
Hey, Mikey. You wanna get some ice cream?
OK!
Hey, Mikey!
Hi, Dad!
Come here, give me a hug!
Gee, you're home early!
Yeah, uh, listen. Why don't you go upstairs and keep your Mom and Brady company for a bit? I need to speak alone with Consuelo for a moment.
Sure, Dad.
Fuck!
I'm going in there.
I dunno.
Whaddya mean you don't know? You either got a lot or you don't. What's not to know?
What DO you know?
Dad, I'm trying to figure things out right now, OK? It's like, really hard, and I'm just listening to some old Elton John and...
So? How was school today?
The same.
The same. Same as what?
Just the same.
Get the hell outta here!
Man, it's just, like, conversation.
Scooby?
Yeah?
We have to talk.
Whaddya wanna talk about?
Don't screw around with me. You know what I'm talking about. You're taking those SATs. You're taking those SATs or your CD collection is history. You're taking those SATs and you're going to college. You're taking those SATs if I have to strap your ass to a chair, but buddy your taking them.
OK.
Tired of this shit...
Which is it? You gotta keep your focus straight.
You're absolutely right. The focus is on the college admissions process today.
And you want Scooby to be the focus of all this?
Scooby and a few other students of different socioeconomic backgrounds.
Oh, well, I don't have them yet, but 
Reconceive.
'Cause Scooby does have a quality that I've been looking for, a quality that is emblematic of American today. It's part disillusionment, part hope...
Oh, I know, I know that. Well, sharing your story, your ups and downs, and so forth, can I hope, be an illuminating experience.
Yeah...How do we know we won't be exploited?
But what kind of pull did you have?
I have a cousin. Very big giver to the alumni fund.
I think Scooby's like a lot of kids. He just hit aa speed bump. Now he's gonna find his way, his path is gonna be cleared, and I think he's gonna continue his education at a good college. And everybody else is gonna be happy.
...But Mr Livingston, aren't you a bit fearful that Scooby will be confronted with hollow values and systemic conformism?
Hey, you want to hear my short story now?
Huh?
I can read it to you.
You mean, again?
Well, I changed the ending a little.
Oh. What happens now?
Well, actually, it's the same, but longer. I think it's better. More...raw.
Well then, maybe you should just read the ending.
But it won't make any sense if you hear it out of context.
I think you should leave it the way it was. It was good.
So you don't want to hear my new ending?
You'll read it in class tomorrow. Surprise me. Anyway, I have to go. I promised Melinda I'd help her with her oral.
You're tired of me. I can tell.
Marcus, I'm tired. That's all.
You've lost interest...You hardly even sweat any more when we have sex.
I was never much of a sweater. You know that.
Look, Vi, I don't blame you. You feel You feel pity now. The pleasure isn't there any more. The kinkiness has gone...You've become kind.
What do you want?
Don't be so upset. It's OK...
What the fuck are you talking about? What's OK?
You know he hated my story also.
Your story was terrible!
Marcus...You'll write something better next time!
Patronizing fuck! If you had just been honest with me in the first place I wouldn't have read it. I knew it was shit. But  idiot!  I believed you!
That's not fair! I was honest! Just because I wasn't sucking up like that bitch Catherine.
Well, I sure didn't hear you voice your opinion in there when it mattered.
I admit it  I was scared! I was shocked, in fact , by what he said. And he's so...convincing. I'm sorry if I let you down, but really, I still say he's just one opinion. I don't even like his books that much. They're all so aggressively confrontational. I don't care if he's won the Pulitzer Prize.
Was anyone in my room today?
Is everything OK?
My CD case like totally collapsed. I'm gonna have to recatalogue all weekend. Hey. Can you pass the salad over.
What are you going to do?
I dunno.
We did the same thing last year also.
How was the class?
Well...yes. If it hadn't been for Hitler, he wouldn't have had to leave Europe. We would have been...European.
But then, in a sense, since you would never have met Dad if your family had stayed in Europe...if it weren't for Hitler, none of us would have been born.
Hi, Scooby! How was school today?
Fine.
Ready for tomorrow?
What's tomorrow?
The SATs, knucklehead. SCOOBY I'm not taking them.
Steak's really good tonight. SCOOBY Good.
Got a lot of homework?
Marty...
You started filling out your college applications yet?
Not to be crass, but what do we get out of this?
Don't worry, he doesn't mean money.
We used pull.
You know, you have to. Sometimes you just have to, Toby.
It's all about who you know.
Look, we're not suckers. Everyone else is out there doing the same thing.
He's right.
Sure!...
Of course, honey. Come in bed with us. Come on.
Don't even joke about that!
I'm serious! What happens if he blows up the school?
Twinkeys!
Boys, take napkins...Napkins...
Mom?
Yes, Mikey?
I was looking through Scooby's SATs practice books this afternoon and I took one of the practice tests. Guess what score I got?
What?
550 verbal, 520 math. And I'm only in fifth grade!
So whaddya think?
Well, I'm not really sure what you're trying to say. It's funny, I suppose. But it seems glib and facile to just make fun of how idiotic these people are.
I'm not making fun. I'm showing it as it really is.
You're showing how superior you are to your subject. TOBY No, but I like my subject. I like these people.
No, you don't.
Yes, I do. I love them!
The camerawork's nice.
Thanks. I'll tell Mike. Well, it's still just a beginning. I know I can...dig deeper.
This is definitely better.
You think so? You don't think that this might not be a little dry?
This is entertainment you're making, Toby. This story about a kid in the suburbs and the state of the college admissions process has, with this Brady crisis, evolved into something much richer and more provocative.
Yes, I knowBut still, it should be somewhat entertaining.
I mean, without this footage, without this rigorous documentation, it would feel like exploitation.
No, no, no. No exploitation. This is seriousBut don't you find it a little funny too, at the same time?
You've got a family tragedy on your hands. Will you tell me what's funny about that? About a kid in a coma?
Nothing, I guess
I mean, why are you making this documentary if you can't treat your subject with appropriate gravity?
OK, you're right, you're right You know, we need to screen what we've gotinvite some regular people, just some random offthe street typesand see what real people think of this.
I dunno, Toby. We really have a long way to go. You still need a lot more footage, and it's probably a little premature to start screening
OK, then we can invite serious intellectual types.
We're not ready.
Hip alternative types who will understand the process better
We're not ready!
Well, I need to see this with an audience!
What's an audience going to tell you?
I don't know. Maybe they'll like it.
Consuelo?
Yes, Mikey?
Do you have any brothers or sisters?
Yes.
Really? How many?
Four brothers and five sisters.
Wow. Why did your parents have so many children? I mean, if they were poor, wouldn't it be better to have just one or two?
It was God's will.
But do you really believe in God? And heaven, hell and angels and all kind of stuff?
No.
When I'm in high school I'm not going to play any football. I'm just going to concentrate on class rank. What did you do in high school?
I did not go to high school.
Weren't there high schools in El Salvador?
We had to work. My family was poor.
Must've been hard being poor.
I'm still poor.
Hmmm. But, Consuelo, even though your poor, don't you have any hobbies or interests or anything?
No, Mikey.
But like, what do you like to do when you're not working?
I'm always working.
But when you're not. Like now. What do you like to do?
This is work.
But it's not like real work. This is just babysitting.
Consuelo. Are you crying?
No.
Yes, you are. I can tell. What's the matter?
Mi Jesusmi jesus
Speak English.
Mi Jesus esta muerto!
Consuelo, I'm sorry, but you know if you don't speak English I can't understand you.
My Jesus
Who is Jesus?
My baby.
You have a bay?
My grandchildbaby.
Gee, I didn't even know you had any children. But why are you so upset about Jesus?
He's dead.
Oh. How did it happen?
He was executed. He was on Death Row and then he was executed.
How did they execute him?
Poison gas.
Maybe it's for the bestI mean, if he was guilty of doing something wrongPeople who are bad should be killed. Don't you think so?
Jesus was not bad.
Maybe he was and you just didn't know it.
He wasn't.
But still, you can't be sure.
I am sure.
But really, you never know.
I know!
Why was he on Death Row?
For rape and murder.
Consuelo, what is rape exactly?
It is when you love someone, and they don't love you. And then you do something about it.
Sometimes I feel like my parents don't love me.
Well then, when you get older you can do something about it.
Hey, Scooby! How's it going?
Conan O'Brien? Whoa! What are you doing here?
I'm looking for a lastminute guest for my show. Any suggestions?
I'll be your guest!
Really? Well, all right! Let's take a look at the television and see how we look.
Welcome to the show, Scooby.
Thank you.
Nice to have you here.
Great to be here.
And thank you for dressing up for us. This is very classy. Tell us. What kind of professional plans do you have? What's in your future?
Well, I was thinking...I might work for you.
Ahh...tell me. What do you want to do for me? What's your idea?
Be your sidekick, you know, and maybe eventually become a TV talk show host.
TV talkshow host, OK. You were at sidekick eight seconds ago, then TV talkshow host. You'll be a Latin dictator in a bout a minute.
Marty, ignore him.
He's vegetarian, doesn't do sports...
Well, technically your Zeda is a survivor.
He was in a concentration camp?
Well, no. But he had to escape the Nazis.
But I thought he came over to America before the war.
Well, he did. With his family. But his cousins, they had to stay and they were all killed. And if he'd stayed, he would have been killed. So in my book he's a survivor.
Even though it was only his cousins that were killed?
But that could've happened to him. Or to me, if I'd been alive. Or you.
Hey.
Hey. What's up?
There's something I need to talk about with you.
What?
There are some rumors...
Like what?
You know...Stanley...
Oh.
And like, don't take this the wrong way...I mean, I'm cool...but...you know...I've got a good reputation at school and, well...I really don't want it ruined.
No prob. I'm cool.
Thanks, Scoob.
I don't know what's wrong with that kid.
Maybe he's gay.
Don't ever say that.
What if he is?
He isn't.
Out! Leave the table!
What?
You heard me: leave the table!
Man, I am out of here! This family is so fucked!
We're studying the Holocaust in Social Studies.
Oh, yeah?
Well, I'm supposed to watch Schindler's List for homework. The movie's like almost four hours. And then I'm supposed to write a report on survivors. You know any survivors, Dad?
Hmmm...Do I know any...personally...?
Hi, I'm here to pick up Ben.
Does Jackie know this?
No. I'm doing it behind her back.
In seven years Jackie's never missed one of Tucker's parties. Where is she?
Something came up. C'mon Ben! I've got a shoot at three...
Tucker hasn't penned Ben's present yet  it won't be too much longer.
Okay, if they're going to <u>have</u> a sauce, put something <u>in</u> it besides flour and chicken broth...
It was a veal stock, I thi...
Well, it wasn't a reduction like you do it! Boiling down half a ton of bones...
The way you cook. If you could make love, I'd marry you.
We have to talk.
Uhoh. I mention marriage, all of a sudden... Ve <u>haff</u> to ta...
I didn't want to spoil our supper...
You'd rather spoil our walk home.
Yeh, it's cheaper.
I just found out I have to go to Boston to get a deposition. I might not be back until Saturday.
So I'll have to order in?
We have the kids this weekend, so...
Jesus.
Anyway, I thought...while I'm gone...maybe I'll hire in some help.
For what?
Just a babysitter  I mean...you're working...
I can take them to work with me  I can shift things around 
You don't need to. I don't expect you to handle them yourself.
Can't handle them myself is what you mean. Can't.
You don't trust me to be alone with them.
I trust you of course I do but 
But? But what?
But you're not good at this. Not yet. I'm sorry.
I know how responsible, caring adults parent children. I'm bribe 'em. But 'em a dog or something. Maybe a Doberman.
Look. I know they hate me.
They don't hate you 
And what you're telling them is keep hating her  keep up the good work 
Nobody's telling them to hate you 
Really? Look in your exwife's eyes.
It's complicated for Jackie. It's complicated for me...You don't have kids  you don't understand 
Oh right...So it's just complicated for you and Jackie  for me it's pretty simple cause I just don't understand...
No you don't. And I'm not gonna screw with my kids heads right now 
You know I don't need another person in this family making me feel like an idiot...your exwife's doing a bang up job and I have to face it every Tuesday and Thursday and every other goddamn weekend and I just don't know how the hell you were married to her for so goddamn long! Jesus what did you see in her? I don't get it  I just don't get it.
Get ready. To get <u>really</u> mad.
Uh. Annabelle's video report has been switched again.
Not yet.
Hey, I sold my body to Satan to clear Friday at two o'clo...
We have the kids. Next weekend.
And it's <u>my</u> call. I promised them waterskiing, instead o...
Our weekend. At that sweet little B &amp; B.
Why are you taking this out on <u>him</u>?
Rache, get out of th...
You haven't done <u>one</u> goddam thing to make any of this easier...
Oh my God. Are you serious?
I think so...What do you think?
I think so too...
It's forever you know.
Okay...Is that the good thing or the bad thing?
Because I can't hurt anyone like this ever again.
Everything's gonna work out. The kids and I...we're going to love each other.
Rache, it may take time.
What's eight, ten years? Hell, you'll still be ambulatory. I think.
Well, I think you should tell him you changed your mi...
It's no biggie.
It's just an assignment.
It's Anna Sui, you should be doing it.
Are you hungry? You could make us something?
They're my kids.
Great, wallow in guilt, you <u>sure</u> you're not Jewish?
She's not gonna die.
I know that.
No problem.
I made that paella you liked. It's on the stove.
What a great surpri...
Hold your applause. We're not having fun, here.
Just like to make sure. That your past. And my future. Are real different.
Well, they will be.
Imagine my relief. So what's for dinner?
Why in the world would she t...
You took a fishing trip with the boys. Liked it so much, you took another.
I needed some time away.
...while she watched the kids. Then, you booked this flat in Paris for your family's summer. But she said...
'...the kids have camp. Their friends are here. Over there, I'll just be shopping in a language I don't even know. My life, and the kids' lives, aren't here to service your midlife crisis.' Did it go like that?
She called it a fight. <u>The</u> fight.
What do you call it? You told her you had doubts.
Can we go sit somewhere?
Let me put it this way. Hell, no.
I told her I loved her.
By way of saying you were unhappy.
Restless.
Excuse me. 'Things are so confusing for me, Jack. Our life feels too comfortable, too safe, too predict able. It's a partnership, it's juggling schedules. When I think of playing that out, every day, for the rest of my life...'
'...I don't know if I can make it.' That's what I said. But I didn't leave.
No, she threw you out. What a difficult woman.
That's a pretty ugly thing you just said.
No, here's ugly. 'I love <u>you</u>, babe. It's just our <u>life</u> together I'm not so sure about...'
'But keep dancing, and if you're lucky, I might just never leave, who knows?'
That's not us.
Because you've changed so much.
We make our lives, one step at a time. We do the best we can. The truth about the future? A promise. Is only a hope.
How about the promises we make to our kids? About <u>their</u> future. Do we shrug those off, just that easily?
Where you goin'?
I'm gonna get me a drink.
How do you hold down a job? It's 8:10. You were supposed to be here at 7:00. She's missed her sunrise Groom'n Ride.
This is Friday, her riding lesson is on Tuesdays. I got it right here...
Every Tuesday except the 3rd Tuesday of the month when it's switched to Friday except in April when she rides on Thursday. It's not that hard. Didn't you have a mother?
Can I please have a cup of coffee?
We don't have any coffee.
What is this? The Betty Ford Center?
Annabelle, how's your video rep...
What happened with Annabelle? Has nothing I said gotten through to you?
Maybe you could back off just a little bit 
What did you do?
Nothing. Look, I want to talk to you about...well...Luke said to ask you...
She's been talking about this little editing machine, it's only...
...a ridiculously <u>expensive</u> and <u>inappropriate</u> item, which her father and I have already <u>told</u> her she is <u>far</u> too young to own. But <u>you</u> apparently want to <u>buy</u> her forgiveness, with...
<u>Forgiveness?</u> For <u>what</u>, exactly?
Luke was in the shower this morning and Annabelle sort of walked in without knocking.
I'm sure that didn't upset her. Everyone in our family takes showers.
I was in there in him.
Did you or Luke talk to her about it afterwards?
No. I thought it might be uncomfortable for her 
You mean for you. A 10yearold girl is coping with the fact that her father is never coming back to live with his family. She sees her father naked with another woman for the first time. And you think it's best for her if every one pretends it didn't happen? This isn't going to work out.
You're damn right. I'm gonna sick of your imperious bullshit. I never said I was Betty Fucking Crocker. If every time life hits her in the face you want to have a 12 hour talk every third Friday or the month  go ahead! I have a life!
Oh and I don't because I have a children?! The problem is you're too selfinvolved to ever be a mother.
Maybe the problem is your <u>kids</u>. Maybe they're spoiled, coddled <u>brats</u>!
Get out!
But it's not on the schedule!
You got to hell!
Machines do not EAT message.
Look, I...
Of all the <u>cheap</u> excuses. To break a child's heart.
Yeh?
Think twice. Before you <u>ever</u> pull that again.
Annabelle doesn't really want to talk to you right now.
I'm sorry I didn't mean to break your concentration. I thought it would be a nice moment to rememb...
Jackie, if I thought for one moment...
You listen carefully because I am only going to say this once. That woman has nothing more to do with my children.
I am not <u>here</u> to make it easier for you. These are <u>my</u> children. They don't want to <u>be</u> with you.
Well, maybe they would if they thought it was okay, with y...
A court <u>order</u> is gonna say that <u>woman</u> is <u>never</u> <u>alone</u> with my children! Ever <u>again</u>! Do you HEAR that?
...in.
I'm sorry. Look, I'm not real comfortable being here, but...
I don't recall inviting you.
I have a snoop.
I didn't need you to take the blame for me, I'm quite...
I didn't do it for you. Believe me.
She already hates me. You've seen to that.
You're not terribly good at taking care of h...
I need practice.
Those are <u>my</u> children you're practicing on. They deserve <u>first</u> rate care. Every minute. Of every night. And every day.
So why did y...
I did it for her.
I have an appointment this after noon. I need someone to take them to the park.
What? And have Federal agents jump out of the bushes with court orders? How many years do you get in this state for giving secondrate care to minors?
However many. It's not enough.
I'm already on thin ice. Yesterday, I actually thought my boss was going to fire me.
Fine, forget it.
Bandaids for cuts. Bandaids for new shoe blisters. Packet of Wash n Dri's. Kleenex. Sugar free lollipops, potty seat covers for public restrooms...
Why not just bring the whole toilet?
Ben likes to be read to. Do you know Dr. Seuss...?
Not personally.
Do you have a word limit you need to hit every day or can I finish?
Sorry I'm late, I got lost dropping Ben off at Kevin's.
It's okay, it's twenty minutes. The horse'll be there.
I'm sorry, I just...
Hey. At least it's not an editing machine.
No way. I told her two, three years, maybe, for such an expens...
What about obsessively picking her split ends?
Anxiety.
Last week when she chopped her Barbie's bangs all to hell 
She was angry at herself.
Jackie?
Yes?
When I twisted hair like this it means I'm intimidated by you...
You feeling all right?
Not great. Plus, I've got things on my mind. You know.
...thinking of going back to Random House. On a parttime basis.
Wowie. How wonderful!
...make some trips into the city. Sometimes, overnight.
Hey, any help you need, we'll cover.
Uh. Have you told Luke and the ki...
Let's...hold up for a bit. It may not happen. Our secret, okay?
I don't know wh...
I was looking for Annabelle's book, and I found your tickets. And the note. From your new boss.
My boss.
You're not working at Random House, I talked to them.
You WHAT?
You're taking the kids. And moving to San Francisco.
Look, you've never liked me...
Don't flatter yourself.
And I know checking into your life was inexcusable...
Nobody likes a snoop.
But I came here to...
Bicoastal parenting. Happens every day. Luke gets the kids every other summer, every other holiday, it's not ideal, but people make it work, and...
We can't live like that.
Did I hear the word...
Luke. Can't live like that.
Then let him talks to me. We don't need you to solve our prob...
...it's my problem, too.
I got used to...thinking of them. As...my kids too.
Really. By what right? Six months of parttime screwups?
Life's a tradeoff. You get cancer, your hair falls out, but you <u>do</u> get to smoke dope.
You're not dying.
You bet you are.
How the hell would you know?
I don't, but...
How would you know <u>anything</u>?
And cigarettes. I smoke, too.
You are <u>marrying</u> the <u>greatest</u> guy who walks this <u>earth</u>. Who I have <u>loved</u> from my <u>heart</u> for twelve<u>years</u>!
They came out of my <u>body</u>!
See, I know that.
I have given them more<u>love</u> and more <u>care</u> every fifteen <u>minutes</u> of their lives, than you could manage in the next fifty <u>years</u>!
Okay, I'm undeserving.
Ironic, huh?
Small world.
Luke's depo ran late. I promised I'd take notes.
So I have to tell you something in confidence...
You're a crossdresser.
That. And. Annabelle is over her head. With Brad 'The Dreamboat' Kovitsky.
She hasn't mentioned this.
She was afraid you'd make a big deal out of it.
Moi?
Toi. They've been 'going out' for two weeks.
As you may know, 'going out' in the six grade doesn't mean shit. They don't actually <u>go</u> to a movie or anywhere, they don't even eat lunch together, it's just a declaration to the world that they're...
...going out, yeh. I had kids of my own, once.
Anyway. He walks up to her on lunch yard today. And tells her... publicly...that they're 'breaking up.'
Oh, my God.
Right. Which is the whole <u>point</u> of this 'going out' thing, so one of them can dump the other one, and they can imitate the whole passionate adult soap opera tragedy, without ever having to actually date.
She's devastated.
Doesn't <u>begin</u> to describe it. I mean, you've got cancer, <u>this</u> is serious.
And you said...?
Beats me. Ask your mom.
Can I look at the pictures?
It's a mess, right now. That's my project when I get back.
So. Hopeful.
It's promising, this one. We're upbeat.
I really look like shit.
You look sick. But you look... together. Mentally tough.
Yeh, that's bull. I'm going for serene, they say some actually get there.
You try to center on the big issues, y'know. What it's all about. What this whole trip has meant. But then, the <u>really</u> big issues keep swamping y...
Brad Kovitsky.
The primo stuff is great for pain.
I think my 'primo shit' got left in my 'bellbottoms.'
He's relentless. A <u>major</u> asshole.
And you said...
What else? Keep on keepin' on.
Eat your heart out. Is Annabelle there?
Yeh, she's...I'll get you Ben first, it's past his bedti...
How's she doing with Brad?
Can I say one thing? I mean, the <u>last</u> thing I want to do is inter fere on the Brad thing, b...
Thanks, but it's under control.
Yah? Well, even the best mom in the world, the smartest, the wisest, whatever. Needs to know when to find a Plan B. Cos Plan A <u>is</u> not and <u>will</u> n...
It's <u>covered</u>, okay? I appreciate your concern. Can I talk to her?
Hon, maybe your mom would like t...
...go to the park. In the worst way.
I'm thinking. Do I know you well enough to really chew you out?
No.
It's just not the right time t...
Do what you've worked your whole life to do?
It was just a job, there'll be plenty of others.
You mean, after I'm dead?
Hey, you haven't quit on you, I'm sure as hell not gonna. I just mean, I'm juggling a lot right n...
Juggle it! Move the darkroom into your house. You've got that room downstairs with the treadmill Luke never uses anyway. Don't lose your confidence. Don't lose your edge.
It's the same choice you made.
Yes. I made the choice that was right for me. And I don't regret it. But even for me, there were days when I felt so lost, so invis ible. And then I'd hate myself for the kids not being enough.
I know you, huh? The car pools, he measles, the PTA. It's not gonna be enough for you in the long run. You have to think long term.
I just want to spend time with them when I'm not rushing or on the phone or tired or...
That's motherhood. That's the job, with or without a career. I'm telling you the biggest gift you can give them is your happiness. They <u>need</u> you to be happy.
My advice to you? Don't die.
Feeling the pressure?
Somehow, his blanket always looked like a cape, even the nurse said that. He <u>loves</u> to hear that story, over and over. How he was born a magician.
And her...?
Took 28 hours. She just wasn't sure about entering this world.
That thing you said before. Pushing the guy sleeping next to you away. Because of what you gave up for motherhood...
Is that what he told you?
He won't discuss it. Just calls it history.
You really didn't have to come, you know. I'd have brought them straight t...
Who in the world <u>is</u> he?
Looks nice enough to m...
He looks familiar. Did he do a Calvin Klein ad?
Now we're going to have a fight, you and I.
Are we.
And I'm going to win.
Don't be too sure.
Now, 'limp dick', I know. What. Is 'snowballing'?
It doesn't matter, I didn't tell h...
Because there'll be, oh, 20 or 30 mothers phoning me in the next hour or so. And they'll b...
Give 'em my number.
Actually. They'll want Annabelle's mother.
Is that what you're worried about? Looking bad at the PTA?
You are <u>defending</u> what you did?
Right down to the ground. Let's get to it.
You put filth in my child's mouth.
Aw.
You had her <u>lie</u> about that... that fancyboy <u>model</u>!
Worked. Like a charm.
She was beaten, and bloodied, and it was going to go on, uni...
So you became the hero. And I became the schmuck.
You taught my child that I am some limp dick <u>loser</u>. Who didn't <u>care</u> about her pain.
That's not wh...
You think <u>I</u> didn't have some dirty words for that little putz? You think <u>I</u> couldn't figure out some low blows?
You weren't passing 'em out.
Well, maybe <u>your</u> version of growing up is 'Just win, baby'.
See, in that crisis, I saw an opportunity. For some <u>real</u> growth.
Oh please.
Shut the fuck up. <u>I</u> didn't go behind <u>your</u> back.
Doing the <u>right</u> thing. Knowing who you <u>are</u>, inside. Not <u>caving</u> to peer pressure, or <u>lowering</u> yourself to that level, <u>steering</u> your <u>own</u> course...
She wasn't steering her own course, she was steering <u>yours</u>.
Well, that's what parenting is <u>about</u>, little girl. They are <u>pleading</u> to know how they are supposed to do it. And you sure as hell <u>showed</u> her.
And there will come <u>another</u> moment. When the stakes are <u>really</u> there. And she will look back on this. And remember how good it felt. How easy it was.
And she'll fight back again. God help me, what have I done.
You've turned her into you. And I may not get another chance. To turn her back.
<u>That's</u> what it is. And that's <u>all</u> it is.
Thanks for coming out.
Neutral ground. What's up?
She likes a Stolie, no ice.
Double.
What's this about? Because we <u>fought</u>?
Don't flatter yourself. I always liked that line.
I love Luke, I love the children. But there is more to life than even love...
No, there isn't.
And I have looked down the road. At what my life will be. And I can't handle it.
I never wanted to be a mom. Then, sharing it with you was one thing. Carrying it alone, the rest of my life...
Is scary. But you want it. Gimme some truth here.
Well, it's the Jack Kennedy Syndrome, huh? You die young, you always look golden. Perfect. The memory kind of burnishes the image, and...
Come on, a wuss like me? The stiff who wouldn't help her own daughter fight back?
Maybe I was wrong on that one.
You're lying.
I lost him. I was panicked.
You are lying, you never lost that kid for 4 <u>seconds</u>, you could find him from a <u>coma</u>, there is no WAY!
I was running around like a chicken with my head chopped off. Doing my imitation of you.
Ben never mentioned it.
He only remembers I <u>found</u> him. My point is, telling you this story would have been the kindest, most helpful thing I could ever have done for you.
Why didn't I?
Uh. You hate my guts?
With good reason. They fucking worship you as it is.
What do I have that you don't?
Everything. You're...the Earth Mother incarnate...
You're the hip and fresh.
You ride with Annabelle...
You'll learn.
You know every story, every wound, every memory, their whole life's <u>happiness</u> has been wrapped up in <u>you</u>, every moment...
I have their past.
Now Edna says you shortchanged your last meds. You can do presents and be comfortable at the same time, y'know.
Just want to be a little sharper. For a few minutes.
You know, there's nothing you have to say. Because they know your heart. You don't have t...
Just sit me up. Nice and tall. Bring Benjamin first.
Planning on getting 
Remarried. There is no move.
Are you here?
I'm here.
Because you don't really seem here.
I'm here. I've got a case where they're this close to sequestering the jury but have I answered the goddamn thing?!
Something's up wi...
You think I didn't get that?
I've been with someone for quite some time, and didn't feel it was appropriate for her to move in too quickly. But after a lot of thought and careful discussion with her  and the kids I might add  she moved in last month.
Since our divorce Luke has seen a number of different women in three short years and without a lot of warning for the kids, he's now living with a woman half his age 
Rachel's not half my age.
We're not discussing your age.
Well, we're not discussing Rachel's age either.
They want to be with you Luke, they go to your house to be with their father.
Jackie, they come to be part of my life. Rachel <u>is</u> part of that life.
Napalm.
Except for last Thursday when Rachel forgot to pick them up 
Jackie, she was five minutes late 
Thank you Mrs. Franklin. Jackie? This has been very valuable for us. And I'll have a serious talk with Annabelle tonight.
It's Wednesday night. She's at my house. I'll talk to her.
I'll call from work. We can have a conference call.
You tried that last week and we were on hold fortyfive minutes...
You ask me that counselor's making a mountain out of a molehill...
I'm worried.
Me too.
Luke, I need to switch next Friday for Thursday, so why don't you take the weekend... ...that way you'll be there, and I'll pick up Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday.
Fine. But I wanted to take the kids to work with me on Wednesday so I'll take Wednesday, and you can pick up that Thursday, Friday after soccer, and Saturday before riding.
Easy enough.
Good...Well...Take care.
Just outside the big top, we're almo...
You're WHERE?
At the Big Apple Circus, it's the only big top I know. I <u>said</u> I'd get 'em back tonight...
Jackie, <u>we</u> were taking them water skiing for the <u>whole</u> weekend!
...until the plan changed, when Jessie's mom gave us these tickets. What, Rachel. 'forgot' I told her?
Our children.
Do you realize what could have hap pened to your son today? How lucky we are the police found him before some lunatic did? He could have been...
But he hasn't. He wandered off. I know it's terrifying. I can imagine how you felt when that call came  But it happens.
Not to me.
Jackie, you've made mistakes  We all make mistakes 
I'm not gonna wait around to see the next one. I'm not gonna watch my kids fall through the cracks of this arrangement. I'm seeing a lawyer.
Jackie stop. We promised we never go there.
We've broken a lot of promises, haven't we Luke?
Called him. We set an ap...
Don't do this.
You're saying, don't make the kids a football, don't put them through a war. But I'm doing this for <u>their</u> wellbeing.
Partly. But partly, you're mad.
You know the kids aren't really in danger. This is about Rachel, and you're right, I'm disappointed in her learning curve, and...
<u>Slugs</u>. Have faster learning curves. <u>Trees</u>, even.
I'm afraid she's going to walk.
And I'm supposed to care.
Still, please.
Annabelle showed me the new dress. She's amazing in it.
Getting so beautiful...she looks more like you every day. Jackie...I've really given this a lot of thought. A great deal of thought...
I didn't think a phone call was appropriate...
Tell me exactly how you're different from three years ago? The music sounds kind of the same from where I'm sitting.
I grew up, a little. I'm ready for a life that's built around commitm...
Just not to me.
It's going to be hard for the kids when I tell them...I'd like you to be there.
To make it easier for them or you?
It's a huge moment in their life 
You can't be an 'us' just when you want to. You can't play that card when it's convenient.
We...
WE are over.
WE'RE still their parents for the next hundred years.
You're still going to have to be dealing with me  with us. We should tell them together.
No. You think this is going to help the kids then you do it. You're on your own.
The great thing about life is that things keep changing.
Remember when Mommy and Daddy got divorced?
And we all went through that together?
She's a charmer, you'll see. In fifty years, the kids'll love her ten percent as much as they love you.
Stop. You're making me insecure.
It's temporary.
It's good. You're not pulling a midlife crisis on us, are you?
You want us to take him tonight? Give you some private time with Annab....
Never stand between that kid and a meatball.
Yet another spaghetti night.
Yeh, better I should forcefeed him burnt lamb and...couscous, was it she made him? Boy, kids go wild for that.
I know. I wouldn't know what to say. If it were you.
We're going to win this.
Walk in the park. And thanks for the 'we'.
What happens next?
I live or I die.
I had a lot of treatments, and they weren't any fun, but the tests show the cancer got smaller.
A lot smaller.
Congratulations. Only forty minutes late. You're handling this promotion really well Rachel.
Duncan. My work is everything to me. This'll never happen again. Now stand back  this session's gonna make you remember why you hired me even though I wouldn't sleep with you  Cooper let's get these penguins dancing 
It's 1:45, I told you there's no one to pick up Annab...
But you're not <u>done</u>!
I've got it. It's in the can, Cooper can wrap th...
We don't KNOW if you've got it, we haven't SEEN it yet! Now go back and FINISH!
Which part of no don't you understand?
Look, I will <u>send</u> a P.A. to pick up the children. There are <u>agencies</u> that supply sitters, nannies...
They're losing one mother. They can't lose two.
You're making a <u>career</u> decision here, I would <u>strongly</u> sugg...
Duncan. I've got an <u>even</u> <u>better</u> idea...
You can't <u>do</u> that, I won't <u>let</u> you!
No, no, no, this is a job that's hard to <u>keep</u>, <u>not</u> a job that's hard to <u>lose</u>, can't be both.
Rachel, <u>don't</u> do this, you will <u>never</u> forgive yourself!
People beat it, don't they? All the time.
Every day. More and more.
So we'll...radiate some more?
At first. Then, after awhile, some chemo.
That's necessary, huh?
Let's take our best shot.
I have to get dressed. My exhusband has asked me to dinner. God knows why, he was very mysteri...
Have you still never told him?
Why would his worry? Or my children's worry. Or anyone's worry. Help the sit...
Sooner than later. You really need to.
Cooper, back the fill off I don't have enough shadow...
You've got a fruit loop in your hair.
You say that like I don't know that.
I once threw an entire bowl of jello on my stepmother's head 
And when did that pass?
Actually, never. They'll always hate you. There's a gene for it.
May I remind you that Duncan has the <u>client</u> arriving at exac...
Sure. I was just doin' my nails.
Why does Rachel wear Daddy's underpants? Doesn't she have underpants of her own?
I noticed a whopping pile of laundry sitting on the washer  perhaps Rachel's underpants are in there  Now where are your lunches?
I hate snails and blue cheese. Especially together. <u>Hate</u>.
I have lava.
Lava's hateable. I never thought of that.
Queen of diamonds.
Seven of clubs. Nobody's mad we just want to talk about it.
Poof! You're happy now.
Thank you Ben. Annabelle!
Ben! Oh my Ben! Are you alright?
I knew where I was all the time.
Mommy? It's not Rachel's fault I ran away.
No, that's your fault. It's her fault for not watching over my precious son, as if it were her priority. Which means, the most important job.
Rachel's job is she works.
Ben, mommies work too. They work very hard. Mommy works harder as a mom than she did when she was working. I just don't get paid.
Does Rachel make a lot of money?
People like Rachel who only think about themselves often do make a lot of money.
I think she's pretty, Mommy.
Yes...if you like big hair...
Mommy?
What honey?
If you want me to hate her I will.
Rache says I have to eat <u>lamb</u>. I told her <u>you're</u> making me <u>spaghetti</u>!
Honey, this is Thursday. I pick you up tomorrow, and we do <u>big</u> spaghetti.
And many meatballs.
You'll be up to your armpits in meatballs, I'm flying them in from Sweden.
Is that like Luigi's?
Not a lot, sweetie. It's a country. Like Canada. Only smaller.
Where are you, anyway?
I'm somewhere, thinking of you. And meatballs. And you know what?
Yes.
Of course, you do. Being magic. Then you know I've got a flu bug, and I turn green and barf profusely when I even think about food. So, all the more meatballs for you. But you know what.
I did. Do I have to eat lamb? Daddy didn't cook it, she did.
Do me a favor? Eat it, and then give me a secret report, okay? Pay particular attention to whether it's chewy and if it tastes more like chocolate or soup.
That I do. Always will.
Mom...?
I'm fine, ba...
Tomorrow? Can I have one butterscotch pudding for dessert?
Mommy, if your real name's Jackie and I call you mommy; and Rachel's real name's Rachel...Then when I see her do I say hi Stepmommy? And if my name's Ben, how come you don't call me son?
Thursday's fine...
ARE YOU CRAZY, YOU COULD <u>SUFFOCATE</u> IN THERE!!!
Nope. I got my warm tshirt.
No.
Pray. We never find out.
Mommy's sick, guys.
You have the WORST flu since...
I have cancer. Do you know what that is?
Grammy had a different kind. There are lots of kinds. Hers was very bad.
Is your bad?
So you're okay.
I'm still sick, but I'm better.
In the still...still of the niight...I held you...held you so tiight...
That's Rache's song!
Sugar. I was slow dancing to that song before Rachel was even born.
Ben! Mommy's so glad to see you  Now stop climbing! Ben listen to me...
No! I have to get there.
Where Ben?
Before you.
Ben where do you have to get to?
Heaven. I have to tell him he's made a mistake. He should take Grammy Martha first. Or Grandpa Norman.
Ben. God doesn't like visitors.
How do you know?
Ask her, she's a heroic Fireperson. She does this twenty times a day.
Oh.
Okay. These are good.
I helped.
I've got a lot of medicine in me, sweetie. And I'm a little wobbly for driving or running ar...
Rache can do that part.
Find the bird cage?
Rache says it's from you.
Well, don't make him disappear before I see him.
So what do you think we're gonna talk about?
You dying.
If a soldier loses his legs in a war. Is he the same guy? Sure he is.
But you can still see him.
Half. Of him.
The world. <u>Thinks</u> I'm gone. But only the magician. Knows better.
So where are you?
Right here. Right here. <u>Inside</u> the magician. Shhhh.
Can I talk to you? When you're there.
Always. Always. And you won't hear a voice. But in <u>here</u>. You'll know. What I'm saying.
It's not good enough.
No, it isn't. Because it isn't everything. And we want every thing, don't we?
Oh my God. That is so not funny. You're late. You're really late. Now get out here and have some cereal.
No.
Fine! Eat in the cupboard.
No! Cocoa Puffs on Top  Fruit Loops on the bottom.
Fine.
You touched it.
Then have a donut 
No.
Alright starve.
But you told us to starve.
Hello?...Duncan...The Ad Agency's already there?...I'm out the door... Ben! Knock it off! It's gonna go beautifully... Damn it Ben 
...EGGzactly. I'm putting on my coat  We are late. We are seriously late. Which means Mister Ben we've got to get you dressed 
No!
Excuse me 
Annabelle let's get something clear.
I made you some cocoa. See?
Thank you Ben. That was so sweet of you. Goodnight Annabelle. Sweet dreams.
&quot;In the great green room there was a telephone and a red balloon...&quot;
Aren't you going to drink your cocoa? It's the good kind.
Mmmm! Tasty. You're a master chef Ben. Just like your dad.
&quot;Goodnight moon, goodnight hush, goodnight mush, goodnight goodnight goodnight Gracie  Goodnight Ben!
No! You're cheating  you have to start from the beginning and you have to read the whole thing I can't sleep otherwise.
&quot;In the great green room there was a telephone and a red balloon...&quot;
&quot;And a picture of the cow jumping over the moon...&quot;
That's nice Ben.
Are you <u>real</u> mad?
How could I be? We learned some magic...
...for Christmas, okay? Every magician needs a white dove, a <u>real</u> one, they <u>do</u>!
Well, that's a long way off, sweetie. We'll talk to Mom and Dad...
Dad! You can talk him into anything!
'In the still...still of the niight...I held you... held you so tiight'...take it, man...
Doowopdoodoo, <u>doo</u>wopdoodoo...
IS THAT YOU?
IT'S YOUR GIRLFRIEND, BIG GUY, OPEN UP.
Now Ladies, the secrets to a great pie is the crust. And the secret to a great flaky pie crust comes from less flour and more...what?
Ice cold water.
That's my girl...
I hate her. I really hate her.
There you are!
Don't take my picture!
No they're not.
Annabelle put down that camera.
Put down that <u>goddamn</u> camera!
You owe me a quarter.
You do NOT run out on your moth...
YOU'RE WORSE THAN <u>SHE</u> IS! WHY DON'T YOU JUST DIE, <u>TOO</u>?
You know, this horse smells really bad.
There's worse things.
...your hating me.
Cos she loves you.
Cos she loves <u>you</u>. She wanted you to have a daddy to love. Even if he didn't...completely...deserve it.
You forgot to wash my purple shirt. I told you a hundred times it was Purple Day at school today.
I didn't forget. I was up all night thinking about it and I concluded you're too special to look like everyone else. Orange Red. That's your color. Few can carry it off. Now please. Help me find your brother.
You lost Ben?!
Of course not. Does he look lost to you? BENNNNN!!!
No. I told you. I like apple butter not butter butter.
Here.
Never mind. I'll just eat my lunch.
I'm almost done making it. Alright Ben  <u>you</u> deal with the tardy, <u>you</u> write yourself a note, your daddy <u>told</u> you he had an important case this morning and he had to leave early and we were AAAAGGGGHHHH!
I'm gonna beep daddy at work.
He's badgering a witness. Eat.
You swore. You owe me a quarter. Did you remember my egg carton? I told you I needed my egg carton for seed planting today.
Absolutely Duncan I'm on top of everything.
I'm sorry, okay? Let's not fi...
Don't touch me! I'm <u>allergic</u> to you!
I don't have to listen to you! You're not my mother.
Thank God for that!
What I meant and perhaps I didn't say it well was you have a great mom. You don't need another one. But when you're at this house 
This is my daddy's house 
This is my house too!
And this is my room so get out!
The timing was off  I need this light.
<u>Just</u> where I wanna be all Saturd...
Hold lunch!
But we're hungry  and I have to pick up my costume for the pageant! It starts at seven!
It's only one o'clock...Why don't you get another Fudgesicle  I'll be done soon  really soon.
Lunch time Sleeping Beauty. Where's Ben? Is he in the bathroom?
I don't know...I feel like I'm gonna throw up.
What if he's kidnapped?
He's not kidnapped he's  he's just hiding  he's just  BENNNN? GODDAMMIT!
C'mon, these are the Bomb, I prom...
Now could she just...<u>forget</u> me!
Your mom had to...help a friend with this...emergency? And she called me. And we switched days. Then, I got stuck on my shoot, and...
MOMMY!
It's not to wear around, or any thing, I'm <u>way</u> too young. It's just for play.
See, I...
She still packing for her trip?
I <u>killed</u> my math quiz, Aminus.
You know what that creep and his frogfaced footmen are calling me <u>now</u>? In front of the whole <u>world</u>? Frosty, the Snow Bitch!!
That's so weak.
Here's <u>weak</u>...Mom said she was gonna talk to the <u>teacher</u> and Brad's <u>parents</u>!! Can you <u>believe</u> the <u>humiliation</u>???
Honey, she won't d...
Annabelle, I know you miss your mother. So why don't you say hello.
Why don't you say hello?
Annabelle pick up the phone.
Annabelle pick up the phone.
That doesn't bother me.
That doesn't bother me.
You think this is funny?
You think this is funny?
No. I think it's ugly.
You're just a <u>stepmother</u>. So stop <u>bossing</u>, cos nobody's <u>listening</u>!
June 3rd, God willing, I'll marry your Dad. And then I <u>will</u> be your stepmom. And right now, I'm not looking forward to th...
Suits me <u>fine</u>!
Oh, baby, I'm so sor...
IT'S NOT YOUR <u>FAULT</u>!!
I <u>did</u> what she said. I <u>used</u> my words, I <u>told</u> him what I <u>felt</u>, and they...
...laughed, yeh. They laughed real hard.
Now is that little prick still here, because if he is, I'm gonna rip his fucking <u>heart</u> out!
No, <u>his</u> mother's always on time.
And Mom says anger never, never <u>solves</u> anything. It makes every thing <u>worse</u>.
That's because your mother is a fine person, finer than I will ever be. Now, just this once...
And you<u>don't</u> tell her. What you're going to say.
Not use my words, please!
No, baby. You're gonna use <u>my</u> words.
Help me here...
Uh. He thinks his nose is too big. But it's not.
Great. Big ears, too?
No. But they stand out, a little. Like this.
Uh. What is it?
Oh. It's an incredibly disgusting, and not remotely sexy thing, that they described in a movie I'd never let you go to. But it's real. Does he have an older brother?
In high school.
He'll be impressed. The clincher is, you <u>walk</u> away, then <u>whip</u> around...
The guy <u>I</u> see is in the eighth grade at <u>Prep</u> School, and he laughs his <u>ass</u> off every time we talk about you.
But Rache...
A <u>suitable</u> boy, will be at <u>this</u> flagpole, <u>on</u> Monday, with a <u>very</u> expensive bike, and he will be a stone FOX if I have to call an <u>escort</u> service!
...it's really not so bad Annabelle  Red and Blue make purple.
I don't care.
I know you don't, but if you had, chrom atically you <u>are</u> in the purple family.
<u>Never</u> say 'never'  it's <u>not</u> fair to say 'always'  and <u>no</u> name calling. Use your words.
I hate when you say that.
Thank you. Those were all words. I hate the planet Uranus. <u>Terrible</u> name for a planet.
I hate overly ripe bananas  they make me want to throw up.
Excellent point.
I didn't say that. Why would I say that?
Well Daddy and I were thinking that sometimes people tell a story about what they wish would happen.
I don't want that to happen. Why would I want that to happen?
Well you're telling your teachers and your friends 
Mass hysteria.
Maybe you're upset that Rachel moved in.
I'm not upset. Why would I be upset?
Look if the truth is you don't feel like talking about this right now that's fine. But don't look me in the eye with a big smile on your face and lie to me. Cause there are only so many lies you're allowed to tell before it starts showing on your face. You wind up looking like...
Like who?
Well, he's not president anymore, so why be petty.
It just slipped out.
It happens.
What happens when he loves Rachel more than us?
That will never happen.
Never say never you always say that. I'll bet daddy's mad at me now.
I'm gonna call him.
Annabelle, daddy and I will always be there. That's one time always is always. You can call him after dinner but...
Lord Nelson, Napoleon's troops. I fear for the women and the property values.
I'll ride ahead. Nelson, protect the Queen...
Daddy was washing Rachel. In the shower. What did you think that was about?
Sex. Of course.
Well, not exactly s...
Why does Rachel scream?
Scream.
During sex.
How would you know sh...
I live. In the same country.
Oh God oh God Oh God oh God oh God Oh...
...why do you think?
Because it feels really incredibly good.
So why are you asking me?
I like talking about it. At least, to you.
Because it's quiet. And he wants to talk. Alise  Once he saws you in half, it's bedtime...
What are you gonna talk about?
Probably you  your brother  school  The solar system...The usual...
Then why are you putting on mascara?
I'm a little tired and it's just a pickmeup.
But you only wore mascara when you and Daddy went on romantic dates...
Well Daddy and I are just friends now, and that's no reason not to wear mascara...
Or blush. You look pale.
Look she's upset 
No I'm not. I don't care. Why should I care? I mean nobody asked me when you got divorced. Nobody asked me if I wanted a new mother. Nobody even asked me if I like her. If you guys don't care about our family staying together, why sh...
Daddy and I tried hard. We really did.
But we do have a choice. To make it better. Instead of worse.
Like how?
Like seeing the good side of Rachel. So she'll see the good side of us.
That happens. To families.
I'll be there for you.
Wow. Who's that for?
Well. It's for you.
I hope it's the right kind.
Are you <u>kidding</u>? It is <u>so</u> much better than the one Rachel showed me!
...I mean, she knows all the music, and pop stars, and clothes and stuff. She's like still a kid, herself.
Like a big sister.
She knows every neat junk food place.
Actually. She's kind of cool, when you get to know her.
I bet.
And don't tell her I told you.
Secret's safe with me.
I know how scared <u>I</u> get when <u>you're</u> sick. So I waited to tell you. Until it was getting smaller. I thought that was best, maybe I was wr...
You lied. If you lied <u>then</u>, maybe you're lying <u>now</u>. I can <u>never</u> belive you <u>again</u>!
We make mistakes. And we forgive each other. Because we love each other, very m...
Where's Rache? It's <u>Thursday</u>, we get to be with <u>Rache</u>!
I can't hear you.
THEN TURN OFF THE CARTOON!
I said...
...I'm not deaf, y'know.
He wouldn't know. <u>I</u> saw her in the shower!
And...?
She is only the <u>Princess</u> of Cool. <u>Mommy</u> is the Queen!
She is but an arriviste.
What's Thursd...
A debate. Man's inhumanity to woman. He's pro women. I'm con. Ms. Flannery is twisted.
I could help with the debate.
Great.
Actually. I could only help him.
Every time I'm on the lunch yard, and he's with twelve of his retarded <u>dorkface</u> little adoring outcrowd <u>henchmen</u>...
You don't like his friends.
...they all yell 'There goes the Virgin Queen' or the 'Ice Princess', or some <u>really</u> clever cut like that. Like it hurts my feelings.
You wouldn't kiss him, huh?
Not with my mouth open.
Good girl.
And what do you do wh...
I call him a fartface or a pervert, or something equally lame.
You have to ignore him.
He's not even there. You don't see him, you don't hear him, you're just too much of a woman to bother with little boys.
This is a joke, right?
This'll work, huh?
Oh, yeh.
How many devilled eggs can you eat?
Maybe twenty.
Annabelle...wake up honey...
Mom? What's wrong?
Nothing sweetheart.
Darling, I've been thinking about our little Brad problem? And I think it's time we move to Plan B...
You cannot <u>believe</u> what he said, it was the worst <u>instant</u> of my total life on <u>Earth</u>!!
I know. I know how rough life can be. And how unfair. So here's what we do. Tomorrow, on the lunch yard, you walk <u>straight</u> <u>up</u> to that little jerk...
And bring my knees up, <u>real</u> hard, yeh?
No, that never solves anything. You talk like the big girl you are. About what you feel. And how he's hurt you. You know? You tell the truth.
I don't want to say goodbye.
Don't. Take me with you.
Thank God. I got to see you. Grown up.
I'm not.
Let me be the judge of that.
Keep Ben's for awhile, okay? Until he's old enough to not open them all at once.
Until he's old enough to read.
Are you afraid for me? Where I'm going.
Yes.
Don't be. I'm going. Where we all go. Now how can that be bad.
I'll miss you so much.
Good. That's very good.
Annabelle sucked her thumb last night.
I NEVER do that, you ALWAYS lie!
I hate wax lips and red ants and pretzels without salt...
I hate the crayon Burnt Sienna and people who spit when they walk.
&quot;Those who travel far and near this will make you DISAPPEAR!&quot;
I have to work on my video project! Don't follow me! I can put myself to bed.
Ben! What's wrong?
I killed her!
Guinevere, Godiva, I sense enemy sol...
I don't <u>want</u> to be Lady Godiva anymore, no matter <u>how</u> much I like chocolate. I want to be a stud.
So what's up? Who's marrying who <u>this</u> time?
Mommy's marrying Rache!
I'd rather be with Mommy.
She's <u>dying</u> and <u>Rache</u> is your mother now!
Where are we?
Givvem a cigarette...
We have to lose the window.
...we can't lose the wind...
Then I can't do this shot...you wants me to push inI can't push in through the window...We go back to New Hampshire?
We need a new name for the movie. Where's the writer?
Wally, I got to takes out that window from the dog. I can't shoot through...
Why?
Because they gots a window with a dogs in it. You want me to "push in." Or I can lose the shot.
No you can't lose the shot. The meaning of the <u>film</u> <u>is</u> in that shot.
But, Wally, the window of the <u>firehut</u>...
I don't care. <u>Fix</u> it.
You hear that?
Yes, I hear it.
Drive a man to drink. Took me near half an hour, get across the street yesterday.
I saw Budgie Gagnon, leaning on the bank of the building. Said, "What are you doin'?" He said, "I'm waitin' for the 'leven o'clock crossing..."
...the damn thing...
No, I'm serious, election's coming up, a lot of people are pretty upset...
He's going to <u>get</u> that calf.
Mmm...
She coulda done better than him.
It takes all kinds.
Zat what it takes? I always <u>wondered</u> what it took...
"Assembly of Death" did 95 million dollars the first weekend.
Yeaup, but those grosses are inflated.
You think so?
Waal, what was the perscreen average...?
You see where Tom Miller's playin' the Old Farmer?
He's been playin' Old Farmer nigh on sixty years.
I read for that part. Did pretty good too.
Bet you did.
But I couldn't r'member all the words. Ast them would they gimme a second chance.
Ain't no second chances in life.
Zat true?
Only second chance we git, z'ta make the same mistake twice...
I have to tell you, I can not <u>express</u> to you how <u>happy</u>...
And we're glad to have you here...
My golly, you know? All my life I grew up in the city, but every summer...would you like a cigar?
Aren't these <u>illegal</u>?
Why would they be illegal?
Well, you know, Walt, I just wanted to say that anything I could do...
That's very kind of...as a matterof fact, one, I hate to <u>bother</u> you with...
...not at all...
...we need the shooting permit for Main Street...
<u>Whatever</u> you need. The City Council, of course, has to pass on your...
...the city council...
On your "permit," but that is less than a formality.
...it is?
I <u>am</u> the City Council. We meet Friday, and I...
George, that is so kind of you.
And, my <u>wife</u> wanted to, wanted me to ask you, we'd like to <u>welcome</u> you, we'd, she'd like to have you to dinner at our house. I don't mean to be...
Well, these things happen. <u>Purpose</u> of my call, my wife wanted to know what brand of <u>cigarettes</u> Mr. Barrenger smokes, so she could lay some out tonight...we got the list of his dietary <u>requirements</u>...
So we just got lucky.
The chairs go, the Lazyboy goes...
...not the Lazyboy...
...we don't have thirteen at table...
Bob Barrenger, Claire Wellesley, the <u>director</u>...
Waal, then, invite someone <u>else</u>, then...
I don't want to invite someone else, because this is the <u>most</u> <u>exclusive</u>...
Waal, then, you know, you do whatever would make you happy. Sher. This is your party, and whatever...
Where the hell have you been...? It's...
Sherry, this...
I've got two days to get this house...
Dear, this is Mr. Rossen, he is the producer...
I am so glad to meet you. We are so glad to <u>have</u> you here, and <u>welcome</u> you to our...I, you know, they had c...I'm, <u>yearly</u> I redecorate our, to restore it to the, 1835...
Don't you <u>touch</u> that...I want them gone.
I signed the permit. I don't know how I can.
I want them thrown in jail.
Sherry, Sherry...
You cool the broad out?
I left that for you.
That's thoughtful. Ziz good, you try this?
Oh yeah, I'm really gonna eat carbohydrates...
What'd you do, <u>build</u> this...?
How was your flight?
We're flying over pigs, we're flying over <u>sheep</u>...
Did you bring Bob's weights?
They're coming Fedex...
What's in all the bags?
My undies, cause, you can't get this picture off on time I'm gonna' wet myself.
I'm gonna' bring it off.
55 days and I take home the camera. I got an idea for a <u>product</u> placement...
<u>Stop</u>...
That's what I said.
How are you getting on with these fine people?
Like dykes and dogs.
Marty...
Later for that, Walt, let's get this: we need the "pages" for the new "Old Mill"...alright? We need a new title, we need a...
It's just a formality.
That's why I <u>want</u> it. Type it up and get it back to me in...
Eight hundred grand to show her tits...
<u>Pay</u> her.
I don't got the money.
Find the money.
I got a company...give us a million dollars, put their product in the film.
No no no no no no no no no find me the money...
Well, I've enjoyed it, too. Any... any...<u>any</u> time... What does the woman want from life...?
She wants eight hundred thousand dollars to show her tits.
Pay her off.
We don't have the money.
<u>Find</u> it.
If you do the product placement...
IT'S A COMPUTER COMANY...IT'S A COMPUTER COMPANY, <u>BAZOOMER</u><u>COM</u>?
"Bazoomer <u>dot</u> com."
I CAN'T PUT A COMPUTER IN A MOVIE SHOT IN 1895...you wanna tell me how I'm gonna' do that?
Actually, the art department had some ideas on...
NO NO NO NO NO, PAY HER OFF. DID YOU HEAR ME?
Gimme Howie Gold. Howie? Thizz...I neee...I NEED EIGHT HUNDRED GRAND. I...I don't care where it comes from... It comes out of our end. I...I need...JUST GET ME THE MONEY. I...JUST GET ME THE GODDAMN MONEY...Look:
We got the permit.
Is that one hell of a kid?
He just saved us eight hundred thousand bucks.
He's got a gift for fiction.
We got to do something nice for <u>him</u>.
She wasn't in...you were al...
There's no witnesses...
No, just the...there's no witnesses, right...?
Yeah?
Would you, tell the guy, get the A.D., someone, somewhere where we can <u>get</u> <u>away</u>, something, I want, you know, last day before the shooting, get away, forget it, have some local food. You want...
Wally...?
Look, Carla. This is a hard time for you. Many young people go to Hollywood. I did...And we all dream of it, and here, here Hollywood has come to you...
Mmm.
That we could use you in and I think that's quite a fine tradeoff all around and an ill wind that blows somebody good.
Here it is: Statutory r...Blah, Blah, Blah, Blah..."statutory"..."unsupported testimony by the..." Hold on, Bobby... You've got nothing, and you know it. By God, you know it. Harassment. You need a...Even if this was true, you need a witness. You need someone puts her in the car, and you've got nothing. Now we all have...yes, give her that part in the film. Yes, we'd love to have you...Now: we all have more important things to do, isn't that right...?
Yes? Hello, Mr. Mayor. Nothing, just an, an unfortunate... It's the Mayor, he's saying...
Is he cool or angry?
Do something.
You tell me what to do, I'll do it.
What is that...?
...the house, the 1835. The original <u>kitchen</u>, of course, burned in 1960, as part of a spate of fires...
It's lovely.
A spate of suspicious fires which were in fact the inspiration for the formation of the Waterford Huskies...
My oh my.
I'm...Tuesday evening we're having an informal dinner, I didn't know you'd be 'on set,' but if you'd like to join your...
Hi!
Her tits! Her tits! How, that she signed IN HER CONTRACT, we hired her 'cause of ten years at the Actors Studio? The way she played <u>Medea</u>?...Her last two pictures laid there on the screen like my first <u>wife</u>...
<u>Siddown</u>!
I really don't think you should be talking this way to a lady.
...would you excuse me, please...
Well, you call him, and call me back, but this is it, pal, you <u>fuck</u> with me, and I'm going to tear out your heart and piss on your lungs through the hole in your <u>chest</u>. And the best to Marion... Where have <u>you</u> been?
I...
He says they're looking for you all day, you're on <u>salary</u>, he needs <u>pages</u>, what are you, you been 'haying?' Now:
You can't write it?
I can write it. I can't type it.
She doesn't show her tits!!! She doesn't show her tits. The breasts symbolize motherhood, the audience...
The breasts symbolize motherhood...
How do they know that, you told them?
No.
What did you say to them...?
I didn't say anything to them.
How do you know you saw it?
I don't know.
Well, then, you didn't see it, right...?
I don't...
You didn't see it...
I...? I saw it. I was there.
You were there. At...at 10:35...?
I was walking down the street...I remember, I was writing a...
What glasses were you wearing? Were you wearing your reading glasses...?
I...
You told me you were writing. Don't you wear your reading glasses to write...?
Does it have to be an Old Mill? Where have you been?
I was in New Hampshire. I was at the Old Location.
We can't shoot the Old Mill.
You know, they told me there were gonna be some jokes. Kid the New Guy...
We're out of money.
You built an Old Mill in New Hampshire...
Halo? <u>Marty</u>? What would they have used instead of an old mill? We need it tonight. Marty? Yeah you were saying...?
I can't write it. I lost my typewriter.
Grace: get Mr. White a typewriter.
I can only write on a manual.
I know the feeling.
Well, you know, you know, that's a lie, I, I...
Grace...
That's a real <u>fault</u>, I...
Grace. Get Mr. White a manual typewriter. It's not a lie, it's a gift for fiction. And somebody find me my lucky pillow.
Hey, Joe...Good. You know B...
I grew up on your mov...
It's about a man who gets a second chance.
Then, you <u>write</u> that. And then this is <u>our</u> second chance. That's why we're here...
I want to make a good film.
I know you do.
And maybe it will be a better movie without the old mill, I...
Hey, it's with the Gods. We don't have the money, we have to write it out. The best or not. And that's a lesson. You get your typewriter yet...?
Um, no.
Grace, get on the other phone, call that girl: well, call her, and have whatsername send up some <u>nosh</u>...what do you like to drink...?
I don't drink.
Did my matzohs come? Get some for everybody. Thank you. Lemme tell you about my first movie...
What's the...
Where have you been...?
I can't.
Why?
Why?
I hurt my finger.
Get a typist. Gettim a typist. Get outta here.
The movie's about <u>purity</u>. So we don't <u>show</u> her breasts. We show them to <u>him</u>, her back to the camera.
...she keeps her back to the camera...?
Know? They could draw them from memory. You're fantastic. What a find you are. Get outta here. We need the Dead Horse Scene.
I'm gonna nail it.
I know you are. Go you Huskies.
I've got a date.
He's got a date, he's got a date, is this guy fantastic...? Already he learned how to write a movie, and he found a girl to get his toes curled, what a guy, what a...what a literary find...!
Let's speak English. You've got to help the side.
You want me to lie.
To the contrary. I want you to tell the truth. The truth is, you can't tell me, to a certainty, that you saw the thing. You don't remember, a gun to your head, which glasses you have on. And you have a fertile imagination. Imagination wants to fill in the blanks. Now. If you aren't <u>sure</u>, then they have nothing. Bob walks free. As he should. Joe: wasn't long ago they buried actors at the crossroads with a stake through their heart. You know? The people who are talking to you about the way we live though we may praise them, we fear them. And they fear us. Because we tell the truth. About our lives. Now, this is a damn roust, and everyone knows it; the guy is looking for a case, he wants to make a name for himself. If we let him do that, if we let him do that, then we're being false to our community...to our community, you understand...? To our world. Cause you are a part of that world, now. You have to take off the Steel Rolex and put on the Gold Rolex. And be part of your world. I got a five picture deal with the studio. And you stick with me. You write one, two more, you stick with me, and you'll <u>direct</u> the third one. You are a part of this world. It's in your blood. It's you. You have to do the right thing: we're out in the Provinces, the Sheriff, <u>literally</u> is at our door. You have to stand with the troops, Joe. That's the bottom line. You <u>have</u> to...if you had the leisure to think it through, you'd see it for yourself. The girl wasn't in the car.
Thank God, it's up to you, Pal. Sup to you...
I'm out.
I don't getcha.
The girl was in the car.
I treated you like a son or nephew.
It's not <u>you</u>, it's...
No, what is it?
I have to tell the truth.
...that's just so <u>narrow</u>...
The girl was in the car.
Then you're finished in show business.
So be it.
And my company sues your ass for sixty million dollars.
For what cause?
I don't need a cause, just a lawyer.
We can't shoot in the Old Mill.
Wait a sec, Marty. Call us back. Two minutes.
We can't shoot in the Old Mill.
I just saw the Mayor, he said anything we...
It burnt down.
You told me they had an Old Mill here..
"Suspicions of arson, these fires, believed set by a disturbed Teenager, were, in fact, the inspiration for the formation of..."
Town's out of lilacs.
You go in her room, take the lilacs from the water, dry them. Go buy some cellophane, wrap em up, and get a card from <u>Marty</u>. What's her problem?
That, that's <u>your</u> life's blood on the st...
I don't know what she's bitching about, she's flashed her tits in the last five movies...she'd bare her breasts to do a <u>voice</u> over.
I...
Get Mitch Cohn on the phone in New York, tell him she's breaking her contract and we're very up...
I...
We're very upset with her. Get someone to <u>double for her</u>, her tits, the tits scene, call L.A. I want to see some <u>pictures</u> of the women's <u>tits</u>. Of their <u>tits</u>.
I'm very sorry I...
You're very sorry, you passive aggressive, sonofabitch...can we replace him?
...the finest people you could ever hope to work with... You have the new Old Mill pages?
I can't find the writer.
...totally false...<u>totally</u> false. He is the, I would say the most responsible human being I have ever...
I have to talk to you. My wife...
Not now.
My wife is going to have a baby, and...
Oh, that's <u>great</u>. Let's bring more people into this overcrowded world.
I'm trying, honey...I'm...look, is your Ma, when is your <u>Mom</u> coming? Oh. What did the <u>midwife</u>...?
Did you, where are we going tonight...?
I...?
Some, you were, you were going to make a reservation for us? Where's my schedule? Where are we <u>booked</u> tonight?
My <u>wife's having a baby</u>...
You what...? Is that on the callsheet, is that on the callsheet, or is that <u>personal business</u>? Ah, Christ. <u>Marty</u>...Are we <u>paying</u> you?
I...
I'm looking for the writer.
What the hell are <u>you</u> so down about?
My wife's going to have a baby.
How about that.
Mmmm. You have children?
No. No, but we're planning to.
Could you tell me where a fellow goes to get a drink in this town?
Yes.
Hey, you've gotta eat a peck of dirt...
My wife just went into labor...
Half a buck I'd close it down...it's per...you know, it's perfidy, you got your Barrenger, molesting little girls...
He should be put in jail.
Half a buck I'd put him in jail...
You should.
I had a witness I would.
A witness to what...?
You know, the rape, to...even to the accident...
You mean <u>with White</u>...?
What?
You mean you need a witness in addition to White...?
Who's White...?
The writer.
He saw the accident...?
Sure.
He saw the girl in the car...
You bet he did.
Arrest him.
What is the...?
Arrest him.
Conspiracy in Statutory Rape? Okay. Of whom?
This young woman.
She was in the car with Bob Barrenger last night. And she was injured coming home from a love tryst, so...
You were in the car with Bob?
Well you guess what. The Mayor sent me. I have your Mr. Barrenger with a history of...
...a history of <u>nothing</u>, he was acquitted...
Moral turp...you're on my home court, friend, I have the Mayor and the town behind me, and forget making your movie: I may own the studio when I get through with you: I got a civil suit, I got rape, I got collusion...
You've got nothing, you don't have a witness...
And I've got a witness! Your Mr. White saw the crime.
He told you that...
He didn't have to tell...
I want to talk to him. Would you ex...
Oh, you're his attorney, too...?
Later for you, pal.
Okay...
Hi.
I'd prefer it if you didn't speak to me.
I...
...you know, there's nothing you could say, that could <u>possibly</u> make a difference, so, why don't you just save your breath.
What's in the case?
Eight hundred thousand dollars in cash.
And what was it you wanted to say?
Gut Yuntif.
...little woman has gone crazy about our dinner party...City Council...? What's the trouble...?
Main Street.
Doug, the traffic light...
<u>Fuck</u> the traffic light. I'm talking about three percent of the adjusted gross of a Major Motion Picture...
I have to talk to you.
Doug, this is Mr...
...he's the producer of the movie.
I want you to hear this, pal... Forget the overages, <u>forget</u> Ten Thousand Dollars for three days to two weeks. You know what it would cost for them to <u>build</u> this set? Two Million Dollars! Now:
Doug...
Now: the Waterford Merchant's Association, of who I am Council...
Where you off to?
I, uh...I'm leaving.
Why?
I perjured myself. I told a lie, and I ruined my life. That's what I did... I don't suppose you could help me with <u>that</u>, could you? Turn back the <u>clock</u>, or something? Give me back my, give me back my <u>purity</u>, I don't suppose you could just wave your magic wand and do that, could you...? But what <u>is</u> truth? Eh? In't that the thing? What <u>is</u> true?
It's the truth that you should never trust anybody, wears a bowtie. Cravat's sposed to point down to accentuate the <u>genitals</u>, why'd you wanna trust somebody, s'tie points out to accentuate his <u>ears</u>...?
Aren't you supposed to set an example for people...?
Nope. I'm just supposed to hold people's hands, while they die. What'd you say your problem was...
...I just swore my life away, back in that...
Mornin, Chessy...how's the back...?
Kiss my ass.
Well.
What?
Who got their heads cut?
Uh. Bob Barrenger, fella, <u>Cameraman</u>...
You said <u>three</u>...?
<u>Did</u> I? I think you're mistaken.
You show Claire these sketches?
Yes.
Did she throw up?
That isn't very nice.
Oh, really, then why don't you sue me in the World Court. Did she like the costumes?
I can't tell.
Why not?
She won't stop crying...
Find out when Marty Rossen's arriving, get him a bunch of lilacs to send to the broad.
She doesn't want to Bare Her Breasts.
She Doesn't Want to Bare Her Breasts...what, in the "Nude Scene...?" What are we paying her three mil?
 she's got 'religion.'
Her religion bars her from fulfilling her contr...
"Bring it in on time and there's more where these came from. Marty. P.S. I want to talk to you about a product tie in..."
I'll put the, in your r...
Somebody make a note. I want Li..., for the broad...what does she like? Lilacs. Okay. A truck of lilacs when the broad comes. And get something for Bob Barrenger, get him, what does he like...?
Bob Barrenger...Bob...Bob Barrenger's in this movie?
That's cor...
He's staying here? Bob Barrenger is staying he...?
Put something in his room. What does he like?
Claire, when did you...
I just...
Claire, Bob Bar...
We're just talking about the...
Don't let me dis...I'll just...
No, no...Please.
This is Joe White.
How can I thank you? How can I repay you for this part? It's a...what a, thank you for this part. The first scene at the Old Mill...
What, what's there to <u>think</u> about? The scene's perfect...I, I get to say...
Yes, but, Joe, <u>Joe's</u> been, well, he's just been having a few, uh, "Thoughts," about...
How many times in your <u>life</u> do you get a speech like that?
Yeah.
This scene is why I'm doing the movie. "Look at the mill, Frank  look at the way it goes around...<u>half</u> of the time the darned wheel's under water, but..."
Yes, yes, but...
"...but still it rises up...It rises up, Frank, high as it can go."
Yeah. Joe? Would you, uh, tell Claire the, uh, the "thoughts" you've been...
What...?
I can't do it, Walt.
You can't do what?
It isn't <u>right</u>. I can't...I...I know I si...I, they, I don't know if they told me it was in the con...
<u>Forget</u> the contract. Claire. What is it?
I don't want to take my shirt off in that con...What are these things that they're asking of me...? Wha...wha...wha... I try to be good; the only thing I care about is...
I know that...
Is...Is the Movie!
I know that, Claire. I, we <u>all</u> know...
Everybody, they, they, they treat me like a...
...<u>no</u>, they don't...
...they treat me like a <u>child</u>. I, I...to bare my <u>body</u>.
Now, look. Claire: Listen to me. I want to tell you a story.
Fuck flowers, we aren't talking about flowers, we're talking about a human being.
I...I...
Who are these from?
...I can't do it, Wally...
Listen to me: Elanora <u>Duse</u> was playing Hamlet in London in 1905, and Royalty could not get a ticket. She said, "I'm not doing the seven shows a week I signed for." She said, "I cannot bare my soul seven times a week. I am an artist. I'll do four shows a week." The greatest actress of her time. You know what her Producer said?
What?
Nothing. He held her and he wept. Because he...
...I...
Because he understood. That was her life's blood on the stage.
...I know...I know...
...and, and, and did she...? And she did the seven shows...
No, she didn't Claire. But I think you should do the scene.
Wally...
I know, I know.
I know, it's the hardest thing in the world, and it seems everybody wants...
...yes...
...wants a piece...
Yes.
And you know what...?
We, we have to give it.
...and my heart goes out to you, because I know...
Not now, I'm talking to the press. Claire!
What? I have a fiveo'clock plane to catch.
I, uh... I've always thought so... Well, you just get an idea, and try to find the best way to express it in pictorial form. I've written a letter to the studio and to SAG protesting... Bill: get a copy of that letter...! I just wanted to tell you that I am <u>past</u> chagrined, I'm <u>mortified</u> at the way you were spoken to...
I...
An artist of your caliber...
I'm only trying to...
I know what you are, I am <u>so</u> sorry that you...when I read that script I said there's only one person to play that part.
The minute I read that script I said...
I know...
...she works with <u>animals</u>, she...
...yes...
...she has a <u>home</u>...
...I know, I'm so...because I said: yes, a woman who...the...the community <u>respects</u> her. Please don't go. Please don't go. What can I do but beseech you...? Trauma, <u>toil</u>...when are we free of them...? When...?
He treated me as if I were a child...
Claire: As an interpretive artist to a creative artist: Stay with me. I need you. We start to shoot tomorrow and then it belongs to <u>us</u>. Stay. Stay. Tonight...when... When they've gone. Let's talk. Let's <u>really</u> talk. We could, we'll have <u>dinner</u>, we'll...a bottle of some bad red wine, we'll get spaghetti, and we'll...
I'm sorry Walt  it's gone beyond that.
Hello.
...he's right here, Mr. Mayor...
Bob are you alright...?
I'm so comfortable with that, Walt, I can't <u>tell</u> you...
Well, Joe said it, and he's right.
No, are you kidding me, Bob, not at all.
Marty...
You can't treat me like this. I'm not a child!
She's absolutely r...
I'm not a <u>child</u>... I have <u>feelings</u>... Don't you...don't, don't...don't...
Matzoh! Are you Jewish?
I, actually yes.
I love Jewish men.
Why?
<u>You</u> know...Where's your bathroom?
Look.
I feel so <u>close</u> to you...
Look, look, I like you <u>very much</u>...
I like you, too.
But not that <u>way</u>...
But we...
Look, look there's someone else...
You have to hide.
Who is that...?
That's my...
Oh.
Will you help me out...?
I...
Hi. I hope I'm not disturbing...
She came in here, wait, she...I was giving her a massage...wait...Wait! She came in here...she... ...with respect...she took off her clothes, and she got in <u>bed</u>, I told her I could notwe don't know each other, you see...
...we had a script conference...
I told her Thank You Very Much, but it was inconvenient because...uh... because...
I want to tell you something, Wally, he's a pussycat. <u>My</u> thing is to see everybody does what they said they would and I have to do that. Now: what is this you want <u>Eight Hundred Thousand Dollars</u> to do what you're being paid to, you already <u>signed</u> you'd do...? What is that?
I think I should talk to my agent, Marty, you and I should, we should, really not discuss...
Who is her agent...?
Get him on the phone.
He's on the Island, he'll be back on...
Get him on the...
I want you to hear this.
I really think that <u>business</u>...matters should be discussed between you t...
Well, I'm going to discuss 'em between you babe, cause it's your idea, and you think you're going to sign to do a, then hold us up in the <u>wilds</u> sweetheart, you are in <u>error</u>...
You have no right to...
Cool it, Babe, you started this...
And I have Mr. Barrenger's Tuna B...
Thank you.
I, well, you know, I tried to take him, in his room.
I think he's moved...
I, uh... Um...
Nobody touched me, I was at home.
Who is it raped you?
Nobody.
Well, what's the beef?
No.
Then what is the...?
It's a mistake. It's all over. I'm sorry that we've inconvenienced you.
I wasn't in the car.
We know that you weren't.
I've got scene <u>twelve</u>... Shouldn't you be in school...?
It's night.
Scene <u>twelve</u>...arrival at the mill.
Aren't you ever in school?
There's other things to be learned.
Izzat so?
The Mayor's outside.
What's his name?
Mr. Bailey.
Is Mr. Barrenger there...?
No, wait a, wait a, wait a...we can't put her in the car, she gets it in her head to sue, or rape, or some goddam, she wasn't in...
You guys had better leave us a...
Mr. Barrenger.
I'm very sorry to...
Well. What seems to be the...?
I have to ask you these...um. You have a valid drivers license...?
Of course he...
Could I see it please...?
Well, now, Mr. Barrenger, I'm very sorry, in fact, I'm as sorry as I could be, <u>but</u>...
I'm an attorney, if there's anything you have to say to...
...I have to give you this <u>ticket</u> for damage to city property. I'm really sorry, Sir, it's a formality, I hope you'll excuse...
You have to what?
It's a formality. Any case of damage to city prop...you hit the control box of the new stop light, and... They'll, uh, these things <u>happen</u>, I hope you're alright, and that you're feeling...
Well, Officer, don't worry ab...
If there's anything I...
What else?
Page...<u>three</u>. Now: "It's a nice evening." I'm not gonna say that... "It's a nice..."
I mean, okay, fine, but it's a motion <u>Picture</u>.
Thanks, honey, but, next time, bring two, save yourself a trip.
The people came to see a motion <u>Picture</u>. ...hold on...
He's saying, what are you saying, Bobby?
Tell it with...
Tell it with <u>pictures</u>.
Tell it with pictures. What I'm saying...
We've got three days to...
You look at: girl comes in the room, an <u>apron</u>, a brown <u>bag</u>, what is she...? She's a...
She's a...
She's a <u>waitress</u>.
What...
What I...
Hold on: what Bob is saying, you don't need...
You don't need "Hi I've just come from the restaurant."
You can go...
Alright. Let's... Page five, the fucking <u>horse</u> dies. You know, <u>she</u> could be in the movie, she could, she's got a good face, she could be the Doctor's...uh, why does it have to be his, uh, <u>wife</u>...? It could be his...
Bob, Bob, stick to the business, will you?
No, you're absolutely r...
And you go start with <u>that</u> stuff in <u>this</u> town...
Everybody needs a hobby. Okay, look Page...
Are you Okay?
Well, yeah, I'm fine, I reached over to, the girl had to be home, I don't know, it's a <u>schoolnight</u>, something...
<u>Bobby</u>...
Everybody needs a hob...
No, I...just...just Joe, just Joe...
Joe, the writer?
Just him and me.
So you see what I'm <u>saying</u>...the movie is about <u>purity</u>...
I've always seen that.
We <u>don't</u> show her breasts, we just show your <u>reaction</u>...
We're going to discuss the scr...you wanna come along...?
You mind...?
If your memory was as long as your dick, you'd be in good shape. How long since you almost went to jail for this shit?
How could she turn on me like that? I thought she liked me.
Can we try to keep our pants buttoned and get out of this town in one piece?
I'm ready!
You do...?
I just don't know what <u>order</u> they come in...
The prices are going up.
But, that's the way of the world, huh? Everybody's gotta eat. Way of the world.
Well, I'm pretty impolite. Would you like some?
I don't eat vegetables.
Well, I can offer you something to drink?
Sure, what have you got?
What do you drink?
Bourbon and Milk.
How old are you?
CARLA +++$+++
Then I hope you wouldn't tell anyone that I gave you this.
I wouldn't tell anyone anything that happened between me and somebody who was my friend.
Nice town that you've got here.
You want to see it better, we could go out on the roof.
...wouldn't that be dangerous?
...not if you've got something to hold on to.
Are you all right...?
I...
You got to get out of here...
Her...
I swear that that woman in my room...
I saw Desert Sun, I wanna tell you...
No, I was, I was, I was just <u>learning</u> on, it's a...
How'd you like working with Richard Hill?
I loved it...he...
Isn't he...
It's...
That makes a <u>lot</u> of sense, Claire, that makes a lot of...list...listen, cause the audience isn't <u>coming</u> to see your breasts. They are coming to see you <u>act</u>. What are you doing this evening...?
I'm having dinner with W...
Mornin, sister.
We missed you in Church today, Frank.
Sister, I've just come from a <u>fire</u>...
Okay, look, you, what is she, 19, twenty...oh Christ...
Uh, <u>look</u>....
Look: Okay. Okay. Look: look you're driving, countryside, so on, you picked her up, she was hitch...
Then she wasn't in the car. <u>Say</u> it.
She wasn't in the...
Nobody knows it but us. Alright? It says <u>here</u>... Are we together on this? Because it's sink or swim here, pals...
...upset and impressionable... Get me the Mayor...
...I was just talking to that girl in the other room.
...overcome by the events around her, the presence of a highpowered...
I never touched her. My mother's gr...
And a <u>fantasy</u> object...
Stay ready. Stay by yourself in your room.
What'll I do for fun?
Whyn't you learn your lines?
I <u>know</u> my lines...
Bobby, don't say anything.
Nothing happened.
Have you got the new pages on the Old Mill? Hey, Bob.
Hey, Tommy. Heard your wife's having a baby.
That's right.
You know who the <u>father</u> is...?
They think it's your First Wife...
That Could Be.
<u>This</u> is your movie, this is small town America.
Town in New Hampshire was small town America too. Forty thousand dollars a day, to shoot on the street. And <u>then</u> they kicked us out...
A jacket for five dollars...I can buy this town for fifty bucks.
You told me that about the <u>last</u> town.
Yeah, but they never made a movie here.
I'm bleeding, Bill, I'm <u>bleeding</u>...
...why am I here...?
What, what, what, what do they got that can pass for the Old Mill...
Waterford, Vermont.
...you got to get me that street for nothing...
I will.
Waterford, Vermont. Where is it? <u>That's</u> where it is...
Because, because...we don't <u>have</u> to build an Old Mill  they <u>have</u> an Old Mill  <u>yeah</u>. It's on a stream  that's where you <u>put</u> a mill.
...they run on water.
Now: I'm looking at the...
Fourteen year old girls.
Well, get him something else and let's get out of here in one piece. Get him a half of a 28year old girl.
It's Marty on the Coast 
On the coast? Of <u>course</u> he's on the coast, where's he gonna be, the <u>Hague</u>...
How big is this horse?
Fifteen hands.
What is that in fingers...? Just kidding, get me this horse.
This horse is booked.
Tell the guy, get me the horse, I'll give him an Associate Producer credit.
He's on the ph...
Mitch, th'Marty Rossen, I'm here in...
Wat...
I'm somewhere in the, I'm on location, eh: This...well I'm going to solve it here, or this <u>Bimbo</u> you sent me's going to be doing a fuckin' <u>donkey</u> act in Akron, I'm talking about Restraint of Trade, Breach of...IT'S VERY SIMPLE...!
Rewrites that Bob Barrenger requested... the "dead horse scene," the...
Whatever it is. GO <u>do</u> it. How you doing on the permit?
Marty, it's Howie Gold on the coast, he needs your confirmation on a request for money...?
And I need a drink.
But, does it have to be an Old Mill?
Hi.
<u>Wonderful</u> scr...
Can't...can't you build the Old Mill?
They're holding it for ransom.
Uh  why did we have to leave New Hampshire?
What's an Associate Producer credit?
It's what you give to your secretary instead of a raise.
It'll hurt the box office.
They know what her tits look like.
What courthouse?
Courthouse back in town.
Town ain't got no courthouse.
What?
Ain't got no courthouse. Courthouse burnt down, 1960.
Well, where do they hold court?
Hold court, they have to, science lab, the high school.
Mornin', Doc...
You doin' here, Doug, thought you started out the day with that pernicious <u>caffeine</u>...
He had a hard day. Ann's deserted him for some guy on the movie.
Well, they don't always leave with the ones they came in with.
Big day last night.
Hope to tell you. Didn't I pick the fragments of glass out of Bob Barrenger's actual head myself.
Cluster of events. Don't see something, ten years, allasudden. Three times inna night.
That's what they call an events cluster. Some guy, nobby orders a Manhattan, fifteen, twenty years, allasudden, three times inna night.
I know em, I don't know what order they come in...
We'll work it out...
Maude, this <u>man</u> wrote this <u>play</u>!
That a fact. Now, is it a good play?
Yes, Maude, it is. It is a <u>very</u> good play.
Well, then, what's he doing here?
What're you doing here...?
I'm glad you asked...I'll <u>tell</u> you what was wrong with it. And what was wrong with it was it was behind the times. Now: You want to bring <u>business</u> into this town? You have to plan for a Waterford that Does Not Exist. Not at the moment, <u>no</u>...
Morning, darling.
Morning.
S'Okay, Maude. You know your lines...?
...I'm sure that people are upset...
Well, I for one, am glad of a little diversion and I'm glad they're here...
What I am <u>saying</u>, is, we have to Look Out For Our Own...Now: they want to close down Main Street...
Annie: you stick to the Amateur Theatricals. This isn't quite the same thing, you see? This is Big Business, in which, our Life... ...s'no less a <u>commodity</u> than...than our...
Water or mineral deposits.
Waal, that's what I'm saying.
We on for tomorrow night?
After Drama Group.
Drama Group?
Tuesdays and Thursdays. But after Play Practice, I'm yours.
Go you Huskies...
And I might have something important to tell you...
What is it, a surprise?
That's right...
Waal, <u>there</u> you are, and Have I Got Some News for <u>You</u>...
Doug, this is Joe White, and this is, this, this is my fiance, Doug Mac...
What, what what are you doing here?
Yes, that's right.
Look at this. Do you know what they're offering? Look at this. They treat us like we're their backyard. Do you know what they're offering for three days to close down Main Street?
What are they offering?
Ten thousand dollars.
That's so beautiful...
I beg your pardon?
"The mill grinds the grain, but the grain is not destroyed. <u>Although</u> it is altered..."
Sure, but...ten thousand dollars. Do you know what they...this movie is budgeted at fifty <u>million</u> dol...they're coming up here, offer us a measl...
Hi!
We had a date.
We did...?
Where have you been...
I've been thinking.
Where have you been, we had a date for <u>three</u>...where have you <u>been</u>...?
I have to tell you something...
Well, I <u>know</u>, because they <u>told</u> me you were with that writer from the, you see, this is what I mean, the whole <u>town</u> has been warped by the, by, by the presence of the movie company, they holler, and we jump, you have a <u>date</u>, they call, you're doing business nine o'clock at night. It isn't...
I wasn't doing business.
Oh. What were you doing, then, that's so important that you shouldn't call your fian...
It's all over between us, Doug, I'm sorry, but that's the truth. I've found someone else, and, it's very serious and it's the end. I'm sorry. It isn't <u>you</u>, j...
Wai...It's so serious you couldn't call to tell me you'd be...what...? What did you say...?
It's all over between us. I've found someone else.
Let me review here: You're...what are you...you've...it's all over between us?
I'm sorry.
Who is this person that you've found?
He works on the movie.
No. Don't tell me that.
I'm sorry.
Why, you <u>whore</u>!
You're doing a <u>Play</u>...
Local Drama Group. Northern Books. No, it hasn't come in yet. As soon as it does. Yup, you too Marge.
...small town. I suppose. You have to make your own fun.
Everybody makes their own fun. F'you don't make it yourself, it ain't fun, it's entertainment.
Northern Books. What can I do for you?
I need a typewritter.
We got em. North...No, Henry James was the novelist, Frank James was a criminal... Yep, you came to the right place. Jessie James was the <u>Brother</u>. Of the novelist, that's right. That's alright Susie. See you tomorrow, Susie.
I want to rent this one.
Why don't you buy it, only forty bucks.
I have one, but they lost it.
Who?
The people in New Hampshire.
That's why they have state borders... whyn't you get a replacement?
Well, it had sentimental value.
You buy the typewriter, I'll get it all spruced up, good as new. Better than new. It has some history.
Other one has history, too. I wrote my play on it.
You wrote a play on it, what play is that?
You haven't heard of it.
What's it called?
"Anguish."
So young, so unlined, so full of promise. So innocent.
I beg your pardon?
I quit.
You quit.
I quit the movie.
Why did you quit?
Actually, I'm not sure if I quit. I think that I got fired. I'm such a liar. I never could tell the truth.
Don't be so hard on yourself.
I just got kicked off my first movie.
Well. Everybody has reversals. If you were never down how would you know when you were up?
That's good. That's really good. You have a gift for words.
It's in your play.
You like my play.
Yes.
Why?
It's about life.
Could you tell me when's the next train?
N'about ten minutes. What was your movie about?
No, of course, you don't want to talk about it.
It's about a man who gets a second chance.
I...
No, of course, you want to get out of town.
It's...
Ever wonder why the dalmation's the symbol of the firehouse?
First organized fire department was on the border of Dalmatia and Sardinia in the year 642.
But why the dalmation?
It was either that, or a sardine.
You get what you pay for.
That's true. You grow up here?
Central High, 'n' matinees, the Bijou Theatre.
...that...that he <u>prayed</u> for a second chance. But...do you see?
Yes.
That, he says, there <u>are</u> no second chances...that he's been presented what he <u>prayed</u> for...and: he's ruined it.
Yes...
But, but but but...
No, no, I see...
That: in an act of...
Yes...
Of <u>mercy</u>...off...
I understand...
...that...he <u>sees</u> that...
As the Old Mill goes around...
Of course, of course that's what I'm <u>saying</u>. As the Old Mill goes around, he <u>sees</u>...
Of course.
...that it has been vouchsafed to him.
That's that's that's that's beautiful...
And you're the only one who'll ever hear that speech. Just you.
Well. It was a pleasure meeting you.
And likewise.
Goodbye.
Goodbye.
So that the Old Mill, the Old <u>Mill</u> represents...the wheel of fate is that too...
No, no. Of course, that's <u>exactly</u> what it represents...
That whole...
The, the, the, the <u>sanctity</u> of everyday things...
Everyday things...yes.
For example, he's just come back from a <u>fire</u> and he...um... That's a fine house. You look at that, and you know, there's nice people that live there.
I live there.
Really. With the porch swing and everything...
Surest thing you know.
I don't mean to impose, but...do you think we might...
That's what the swing is <u>there</u> for...
...that's what the swing is <u>there</u> for...thats its <u>purpose</u>, <u>isn't</u> it...
...I always thought so...
...such a pleasant sound.
Mmm.
Cause, cause, it's...it's the <u>simple</u> things, that...
Yes...
...that.
...who...?
Well, I guess I'll...get down to the station. It was lovely meeting...
Mister White is...
Hi.
What are you doing? I love your script.
They decided, I decided to, to...You love what?
You're still here.
I...I decided to give it another chhh...
I love your script.
In fact, in fact, in fact, I'm not sure if I'm giving <u>them</u> a second chance, or they're giving it to me. That's the truth. The truth's best, don't you think?
You'd know better'n me.
How can you <u>say</u> that?
It's in your script...it's about getting a second chance. Innit? "You <u>can</u> go back..."
I <u>can</u>?
You bet your life. "The mill wheel goes around...some times it's even under water  then it rises up, as high as it can go..."
But how do I...how do I do a film called "The Old Mill," when I don't have an old mill?
Well, first, you got to change the title...
What I need to <u>say</u>...
<u>Yes</u>...
About <u>conflict</u>...
That's why you didn't want to take the <u>Mill</u> out...you've...
...the, the, the symbol of the fire...
The <u>Firehouse</u>...
I...
But but but but but it's better <u>without</u>...
<u>How</u>...?
Wait wait wait wait wait he gets a second chance, do you see? And <u>you</u> get a second chance!
No, I don't...
He doesn't go back to the <u>mill</u>, he gets a second chance to go back to the <u>firehouse</u>...
This is, look: Go you Huskies. ...what <u>I</u> see you saying, is: you have the two elements, Fire and <u>Water</u>. The Firehouse, and the <u>Old Mill</u>...Do you know, you could...
What are you <u>doing</u> tonight?
Me?
Yes.
Tonight, tonight, I...I have play practice...
...oh...oh. Well. That's very important.
Hello.
I thought you had Play Practice.
Don't look good for "Trial of the Heart."
Well, then, it don't look good for the Huskies...
That's for sure.
What happened?
Cast stood me up.
Uh huh.
They're all preparing for the auditions  your movie.
"Rise, one need not bend the knee before the throne of justice."
What?
What are you doing down there?
My glasses fell apart. I lost the...
...lost the screw...
You got a paperclip?
You like kids?
Never saw the point of 'em.
Me, too. You have a paperclip?
Paperclip?
Fix my glasses.
Better idea...
Gonna' be good as new.
Better'n new, cause it's got a <u>story</u>. Want to do the other part?
Great. Who is it...?
"Room Service!"
Would you go in...
Would you put on your cl... Just leave it outside.
You have to sign for it.
I'm gonna be your typist for this evening.
Oh, God...
And here's some hydrogen peroxide.
I don't drink.
It's for your finger.
One moment.
Hi.
You going to ask me in?
Thank you.
Read the card.
"To the love of my life, Love, Doug"?
The other side.
Oh.
Don't you think you should put them in water?
Why?
...because if you don't, they die...
Start? This isn't a good time.
Oh. That's alright. Then I'll come back at a better time. What would be a better time?
Later on.
Then I'll come back, then.
You, um, you, um, you going out with your fiance?
No, I just broke up with him. I'll see you tomorrow.
You can do it.
Because I'd met someone else.
Oh <u>okay</u>.
You believe that?
I do if you do.
But it's absurd.
So is our electoral process. But we still vote.
Do you truly believe the electoral process is absurd?
I used to go out with a politician.
You used to go out with him, you broke up with him?
Sure did.
Why?
Time for a change. Keep your margins straight.
Yes.
Go you Huskies!
Good morning to <u>you</u>...whatsa matter?
I can't get it to come out right.
What's the scene...
It used to be the Old Mill.
What've you got?
They meet on Main Street. Her horse has just died. He's coming from the fire.
What about...what about...it's so presumptuous of me, to be, to be telling <u>you</u> how to wr...
<u>Please</u>...
How about, he sees her on the street, he wipes the soot from his eyes. He goes up to her. "What happened to the horse?" She looks at him. She takes his hand...
Ah. Ah. Ah...
I hurt you?
...he stuck a fishhook in it.
She <u>realizes</u>  it was not the fire which <u>hurt</u> him...that the <u>true</u> hurt was her. Was her...
...yes.
...her unbridled sexuality. That he...
...yes.
Has been wounded by <u>her</u> heat...by her <u>infidelities</u>...
Because it's about <u>purity</u>...
That's...that's <u>exactly</u> what it's about. Take...
That's right...
...take <u>any</u> two people...
Hi.
Hi.
Where you going?
Going home.
Going home, yeah. I told them what you said...
What?
I told them what you said about the script...
I didn't say anything special, I was just talking out loud.
...how <u>else</u> can you talk?
No, that's true.
No. You, I told them, you can't betray with the picture what you're saying with the words. And, I don't know, the movies, I don't know. They should be socially uplifting, why does she have to show her br...what is this...?
Yessuh. Joseph Knights printshop. Vacant for thirty years.
Is it...
Yep. N'it's for sale. One of the few things money can buy.
Would you like to <u>see</u> it? I've got the key back at my store...
I'd love to.
How's your star?
Gosh, you look nice.
...what...?
What would you do with it, the printshop...
Start back up the Waterford Sentinel. Town newspaper. Show you the plans...
Press still works.
It does?
Did as of last week.
Best way I know to get ink on your hands.
You'd do the newspaper right here.
That's something a man could do...?
You know what else a man can do?
What?
Pelting down out there.
People might be better off. They thought about it, spent the evening back in the...
Good morning.
Sleep well?
Yeah, you?
Oh yeah.
I've been thinking: look at this: we live up here...
Yes...
We could live up here, live up in the country.
Now you're talking...
...and we could get up every morning...
...well, we do that <u>anyway</u>...
And come to the printshop. You know <u>why</u>...?
...the better to eat me with, your dear?
To print the newspaper. And I'd come to <u>write</u>. To write. To write. Right here in the office.
Not without a rolltop desk.
Well, I could <u>get</u> a rolltop desk.
Happen to know where there's one for sale.
Well ain't you amazing.
Lookit that, up already.
That's why we filmfolk get along so well with you farmers. Both up with the chickens.
What is it all about?
I saw...
What am I gonna do?
You got to tell em that you saw the accident. Don't you?
I can't do that. If I tell them, they'll, if I <u>tell</u> them, they'll try Bob for rape, they'll...it'll ruin his career...
But that's what happened.
But it'll stop the movie.
Maybe they'll be <u>other</u> movies.
They'll...they'll <u>blackball</u> me...
Carla was in the car, right?
I...I <u>think</u> that's right...
...you think that's right...
What are you going to do?
I'm going to tell the truth.
I'll wait for you...I'm proud of you. I'll <u>be</u> waiting.
If I go to jail...?
I'll knit you a sweater.
Evening, Annie.
Evening, Cal. Would you tell me about it?
Cal...
Annie...got an umbrella...?
Nope.
I'll walk you home, you can have my coat.
Then you'll be wet.
I'm goin offshift. Come on...I'll walk you home.
Mom's expecting you for dinner tonight.
I'll be there.
You bringing your new friend?
Sure plan to.
He have any special dietary requirements...?
He'll eat potroast and like it.
Go you Huskies?
You bet your life.
Transporters Room and Chief Engineer Scott report trans porter system fully repaired and now functioning normally, sir.
Dock signals clear, Captain.
Dock control reports ready, sir.
Helm ready, sir.
Negative helm control, Captain! Going reverse on impulse power...!
Subspace frequencies are jammed by Wormhole effect!
Starfleet signals, sir, growing in strength... They  have Intruder on their monitors  it's decelerating  powerfield cloud beginning to dissipate...
Confirm, Captain. Lunar beacons indicate Intruder on a course into Earth orbit...
The third one is moving off too  a fourth one is forming...
<U>Urgent</U> signal from Starfleet, Captain! <U>All</U> Earth defense systems have gone dead.
Starfleet has been apprised of our situation, Captain.
Tractor beam remains constant...
Captain, we need further Warp simulation on the flow sensors...
Engineer, we need Warp speed now!
Warp Drive as soon as possible, Mr. Scott.
Captain, it was our antimatter imbalance that created the wormhole in the first place. It will happen again if we don't correct it.
That object out there is less than two days from Earth, Mister Scott. We've got to intercept while it still is out there!
Aye, we understand that sir! We're doing our best.
Engineering... Status, Mr. Scott?
We're ready, sir.
Thank you, Scotty. Stand by.
You've received your appointment as Enterprise Science Officer?
Based, I am told, on your recommendation, Admiral. Thank you.
Why aren't you on board?
Captain Decker requested I complete final Science briefing here before...
Here at Starfleet...? The Enterprise is in final preparation to leave dock...
Which will require twenty more hours at minimum, Admiral...
Twelve! I'm on my way to a meeting with Admiral Nogura which will not last more than three minutes. Report to me on the Enterprise in one hour.
To you, sir?
I intend to be there following that meeting. Report to me. One hour!
Reporting as ordered, Captain.
Sit down, please.
Sir, I would appreciate Dr. McCoy absenting himself from this interview.
I want him here. Sit down!
You've reported that you felt strong thought emotions. A group of minds from a space vessel? Could you make out any plan, anything to do with Earth?
Negative, Captain. I could sense only what seemed an almost omniscient pattern of perfect logic. I can explain nothing more; I understand nothing more.
Also  there was nothing in your report about <U>why</U> you're here.
That inquiry invades my personal life, Captain.
I still contain fragments of my human half.
And whatever you sensed out here....
... is my only hope of accomplishing what the Masters could not.
Let it drop, Bones. You are my Science Officer  I'll expect an <U>immediate</U> report on anything further you learn or <U>sense</U> from here on.
I have accepted service here as a Starfleet officer... sir.
I know this has been painful, Spock. For me too. Thank you.
Do <U>not</U> return scan, Mr. Spock! It may be misinterpreted as hostility!
Intruder scans emanate from the exact cloud center. Energy of a type entirely un known to me.
Captain, I suspect there's an object at the heart of that cloud.
Mr. Decker, I will not provoke an attack, If that order isn't clear to you...
They have... they <U>have</U> been communicating with us. I sense ... <U>puzzlement</U>. Why have we not replied?
Communicated with us <U>how</U>?
It appears that our message has been understood, Captain.
Any reply from them?
The 'puzzlement' I sensed was fleeting... minor... ... as if carrying a sense of our insignificance, Captain.
Our... 'insignificance'?
We are obviously confronted by a highly advanced mentality... yet they cannot understand who we are, or what we want.
But they understood our messages; they broke off the attack.
Recommend we proceede, Captain.
Mr. Decker... ?
No vessel could generate a powerfield of this magnitude...
Instruments fluctuating, Captain. Patterns unrecognizable.
That vessel is generating a forcefield measurably greater than the radiation of the Earth's sun.
Transmit image of the Alien to Starfleet; advise we are attempting further communication.
Captain, we have been seized by a tractor beam...!
Get someone up here to take the Navigator's station...! Engineering... full emergency power!
We cannot break free, Captain. We do not have a fraction of the power necessary.
Delay that order, Scotty...! Disengage all main drive systems!
Have you been able to analyze <U>any</U> of this...?
I believe the light flares to be energy fields  undoubtedly part of the vessel's inner mechanism. A technology so incredibly sophisticated that I cannot 
They had a pattern to follow...
... they may have followed it <U>too</U> precisely.
Ilia's memory, her feelings of loyalty, friendship, obedience... might all be there.
Spock? Concerned about his chances?
I am uneasy with that being our only hope of more information.
Bridge, cancel rescue teams. Spock, what in the hell are you doing out here!
I am seeking answers, Captain.
Answers to what, Spock? Our dilemma  or your <U>personal</U> one?
It would appear that the atomic arrays of these crystals store information. A remarkably efficient system.
And these 'sensorswarms' collect that data, carry it here.
New crystals: they must contain the most recent data obtained 
Klingons... our Epsilon 9 station ... and Ilia!! They seem to be more than just images...
Exact patterns. The energy bolt that hit them wasn't simply a weapon  it dematerialized them, stored them. But why?
If this is their ship's data banks, where is the crew? Or is their entire ship automated?
Captain, I do not believe there <U>is</U> a crew  or that this is a vessel as such.
Were you right? Spock? V'ger is a living machine...?
A life form of its own; a conscious, living entity.
What should you have known?
No meaning... No hope... And, Jim, no answers...! Jim, it's looking for <U>answers</U> <U>itself</U>!
What answers?
'Is this all I am? Is there not more?'
These read as identical composition... ... however, Captain, they measure several hundred times more powerful!
High mag, Mr. Sulu!
Child...!?
Yes, Captain, a child: evolving into adulthood  learning, searching  instinctively needing.
The orbiting devices would be controlled from the point, then...?
Precisely.
Not for us?
No, Captain, not for us... for V'ger.
Has not, Doctor  and now, because of what we are planning... will not...
There is no alternative.
Captain, the orbital device will not be triggered for twentytwo minutes...
The point...
The point is, Captain, <U>twentytwo</U>
V'ger plans to literally <U>meld</U> to reduce both itself and the Creator to patterns...
... and then to reassemble itself <U>combined</U> with the Creator. The most certain way of obtaining all the Creator's answers.
There's no way to know. V'ger expected it to be a machine  some single entity. All of us here may be reduced into patterns...
That seems to be what it has planned  to have the Creator physically present here.
Spock, we <U>were</U> its answer!
Yes, Captain. It needed our mortality, the fear of it, our struggle against it, our fears, our dreams...
... and the 'foolish' emotions which drive us?
I prefer your poet Dante's phrase  'the divine restlessness of the human spirit.'
Admiral, I've been hoping to see you. Maybe you can get through to those thick heads in Starfleet that...
Why aren't the Enterprise transporters in operation, Mister Scott?
We're hoping it's only a temporary problem, Admiral...
See that it is. Take me over, please.
Admiral, the Enterprise has just finished eighteen months redesign ing and refitting. She needs testing, a shakedown...
Mr. Scott, there's an alien object with unbelievable destructive power less than three days away from this planet...
The crew hasn't had near enough transition time with all the new equipment. And the engines, Admiral: they've yet to be even tested at warp power. Add to that, an untried Captain...
Two and a half years as Chief of Starfleet Operations may have made me a little stale, Mr. Scott  but I wouldn't exactly consider myself 'untried.'
We're losing the pattern...!
Starfleet, boost your matter gain; we need more signal!
I appreciate the welcome; I wish the circumstances were less critical. Epsilon Nine is monitoring the intruder; keep a channel open to them. Where is Captain Decker?
He's in Engineering, sir... He doesn't know.
Maneuvering thrusters, Mister Sulu.
Maneuvering thrusters, sir.
Hold station.
Thrusters at stationkeeping, sir.
Ahead Warp One, Mr Sulu.
Accelerating to Warp One, sir.
Mr. Sulu, steady as she goes.
Aye, sir.
Reduce magnification. Factor 4, Mr. Sulu.
We're already two settings below that, sir.
Adjust parallel course, Navigator. Bring us in to one hundred kilometers distance.
One hundred kilometers...
Hold relative position here...
Viewer ahead.
Viewer ahead, sir.
Maneuvering thrusters, Mr. Sulu; ahead one third. Full sensor scan, Mr. Spock; they can't expect us <U>not</U> to look them over now!
Thrusters ahead, one third.
Hold station...!
Thrusters at station keeping...
Clear the bridge, Captain...?
That was the order, Mr. Sulu: Clear the bridge.
Lieutenant Ilia reporting for duty, sir.
Welcome aboard, Lieutenant.
'Commander' Decker?
Our Exec and Science Officer...
And in you, too, Lieutenant.
My oath of celibacy is on record Captain. May I assume my duties?
Time to impact...?
Twelve seconds...!
Mr. Chekov, stand by on the phasers...!
Five minutes to Cloud boundary!
I stand corrected Mr. Decker. Navigator, lay in a conic section flight path into the cloud center; bring us parallel to whatever we find in there...
Mr. Spock?
Impact in fifteen seconds...
Transmit, Mr. Spock! Now!
Ten seconds....
Thirty seconds to Cloud boundary...
Opinion, Mister. Spock?
Fifteen seconds to Cloud Boundary.
Viewer, standard ahead.
Hello, Ilia.
Decker....!
I now the Captain meant no person al insult.
I would never take advantage of a sexually immature species. You can assure him that's true, can't you?
Negative control from inertial lag will continue 22 point five seconds before forward velocity slows to sublight speed.
Unidentified small object has been pulled into the wormhole with us, Captain! Directly ahead...!
Navigational deflectors inoperative...! Directional control also inoperative, Captain...!
Wormhole distortion has over loaded main power systems...!
Was he difficult?
No more than I expected Not as difficult as this. I'm sorry...
That you left? or that you didn't say 'goodbye'?
If I'd seen you again, would you have been able to say it?
No.
They may have attacked only as a warning to us, Captain. To keep away.
That would presuppose a feeling, Commander... compassion. I sensed <U>no</U> emotion, only... ... pure logic.
We could have cut it off at the main computer...
This served the purpose.
Captain... this probe may be a key a key to the Aliens.
It's a programmed <U>mechanism</U>, Mr. Spock...
We have just seen that its body duplicates our navigator in <U>precise</U> detail. Suppose that beneath its programming, the real Ilia's memory patterns are duplicated with equal precision.
Exactly. And you did have a 'relationship' with Lieutenant Ilia, Commander.
That probe in there  in a different form now  is the same thing that <U>killed</U> Ilia!
Then V'ger believes the Creator to be a <U>machine</U> too.
It seems we <U>all</U> imagine God in our own image.
Forward motion, Captain...!
A tractor beam...
Mr. Spock, what would V'ger need to fulfill itself?
V'ger has begun to understand the true limits of our universe, thereby realizing the existence of other dimensions. To fulfill itself it must evolve to a higher dimension; V'ger believes this can be achieved only by joining with the Creator.
That transmitter is a vital link between V'ger and the Creator.
We have twentyone minutes. Captain, we can still save V'ger... and ourselves.
Jim... he <U>wants</U> it.
You got the Enterprise, it's what <U>you</U> wanted. This is what I want. But, Jim... ... <U>I'm</U> the right choice for this mission.
I'm taking over the Center seat. I'm sorry, Will.
You are what...?
I'm replacing you as Captain of the Enterprise.
You'll stay aboard as Executive Officer... a temporary grade reduction to Commander.
 You, personally, are assuming command?
Yes.
May I ask Why?
My experience  five years out there dealing with unknowns like this  my familiarity with the Enterprise, this crew...
Admiral, this is an almost totally new enterprise. You don't know her a tenth as well as I do.
That's why you're staying aboard. I'm sorry, Will.
No, Admiral. I don't think you are; not one damned bit. I remember when you recommended me for this command. You told me how envious you were, and if only you could find a way to get a starship command again. Well, sir, it looks like you found a way.
We'll have to replace Commander Sonak. I'd still like a Vulcan there, if possible...
None available, Captain. There's no one in fact, who's fully rated on this design.
You are, Mister Decker. I'm afraid you'll have to double as Science Officer.
Programming ready?
Program set for standard Warp entry, Captain...
... but I still recommend further simulation study.
Mister Decker; every minute brings that object nearer Earth! Engineering! Stand by for Warp Drive.
Explanation, Mr. Decker: Why was my phaser order countermanded?
Sir, the Enterprise redesign increases phaser power by channeling it through the main engines. When they went into antimatter imbalance, the phasers were automatically cut off.
Then you acted properly, of course.
Thank you, sir. I'm sorry I embar rassed you.
You saved the ship.
I'm aware of that, sir.
Stop competing with me, Decker!
Permission to speak freely, sir?
Granted.
Sir, you haven't logged a single star hour in two and a half years. That, plus your unfamiliarity with the ship's design  in my opinion, sir, seriously jeopardizes our mission.
I trust you will... nursemaid me through these difficulties, Mister?
Yes, sir, I'll do that.
If our Executive Officer has no objections...?
Of course not. I'm aware of Mister Spock's qualifications.
Mister Chekov, log Mister Spock's Starfleet commission reactivated; list him as Science Officer; both effective immediately.
Recommend defensive posture, Captain: Screens and shields.
No... ... that could also be misinter preted as hostile, Mr. Decker. Cloud composition, Mr. Spock?
Captain, we've seen what their weapons can do. Shouldn't we take every possible precaution  ?
Mr Decker....
I advise caution, Captain; we can't withstand another attack.
That thing is twenty hours from Earth. We know nothing about it yet.
That's precisely the point, Captain. We don't know it will do. Moving into the cloud  at this time, is an unwarranted gamble.
How do you define <U>unwarranted</U>, <U>mister</U>?!
You asked my opinion, sir.
<U>Computer off</U>!
It's taken control of the computer...!
It's running our records! Starfleet strength, Earth defenses...
The ship is under attack...! Man all defensive stations...!
Forcefields, full remaining strength...! Total reserve!
Why bring us inside? Not to destroy us; they could have done that outside.
They could have many ways of destroying things, Mr. Decker.
Captain, what's the next move?
The question is, Mr. Decker, <U>is</U> there a next move...
Well, Mr. Decker, it seems my bluff is being called.
I'm afraid our hand is pretty weak, Captain. But it's the only game in town.
, if we do not provide V'ger with certain information, we won't have twentytwo <U>seconds</U>; the plan must be implemented upon arrival.
Captain, we can't be sure that our... move... will actually save Earth.
No!
Mr. Decker... I will contact you every five minutes. Otherwise... inform Mr. Scott immediately.
Captain... I'd like to go along...
The fault is here, sir, not in the transmission. The antenna leads have been disconnected. V'ger never intended to accept a transmitted signal.
Capture God! In order to retrieve V'ger's data, the Creator has to physically come here!...
And plug the signal directly into the circuitry at this... ... point here, Captain. It should pick up even a tricorder playback.
Enterprise, I want that signal again. Transmit!
Departure angle on viewer.
Departure angle.
It is a courier, Captain. Grade One priority. Nonbelligerency confirmed.
Very well, Mr. Chekov, see to it. Viewer off.
Deck four, Captain; Officers' Quarters...!
Have a security team meet me at Deck Four main elevator!
Sir! Airlock four has been opened; a thruster suit is reported missing!
Spock...! Get a fix on his position!
Mr. Chekov, when do those devices activate?
They reach final position in... Twentyseven minutes  mark.
Engineering...
Tractor beam strength lessening, Captain.
Mr. Scott... on my next signal.
The crews of the previous Enterprises were also carbon units. In what way is the life form in your vessel different?
Carbon units are not true life forms... Do those images repre sent how Enterprise has evolved into its present form?
Yes.
Carbon units have clearly retarded Enterprise's proper evolvement.
What is Enterprise's proper evolvement?
Enterprise should not require the presence of carbon units.
Enterprise would be unable to function <U>without</U> carbon units.
More data concerning this functioning is necessary before carbon units can be patterned for data storage.
What does that mean?
When my examination is complete, the carbon units will be reduced to data patterns.
Within you are memory patterns of a carbon unit. If I can help you revive these patterns; you could understand our functions better.
That is logical. You may procede.
Does V'ger object to the presence of the two carbon units?
The carbon units are of no consequence; V'ger will determine their purpose.
You said V'ger's purpose was to find and join with the Creator.
That is how V'ger will survive.
A machine...! Then it had to be programmed. By <U>whom</U>...?
By the Creator.
To join, and become One with the Creator?
To learn all that is learnable; to deliver all collected data to the Creator on the third planet. That is the programming.
As I stated, V'ger calls to the Creator.
V'ger is announcing that it has arrived, sir  that it's ready to deliver the information it was programmed to collect...
'To learn all that is learnable.'
It expects a return signal now, ordering it to transmit that information to the Creator.
And when V'ger melds? What will happen to you?
It will... take me from <U>you</U>...
Who is...'V'ger'...?
V'ger is that which programmed me.
Is V'ger the Captain of the alien vessel?
Where is Lt. Ilia?
That unit no longer functions. I have been given its form to more readily communicate with the carbonbased units infesting Enterprise.
Why does V'ger travel to the third planet of the solar system directly ahead?
V'ger travels to the third planet to find the Creator.
Find the Creator? <U>What</U> Creator? <U>Whose</U>...!? What does V'ger want of the 'Creator'... ?
To join with him.
The Creator is that which created V'ger.
Who is V'ger?
V'ger is that which seeks the Creator.
The examination is a normal function.
You may proceede.
<U>Why</U>...?!
The carbonunits infection will now be removed from the Creator's planet.
<U>Why</U>?!
The Creator has not answered.
The carbonunits are not responsible for that.
You infest and control Enterprise. V'ger believes carbonunits interfere with the Creator in the same manner.
Disclose the information.
Not until V'ger withdraws the devices orbiting the third planet.
KIRK UNIT! DISCLOSE THE INFORMATION!
Kirkunit, <U>why</U> do you not disclose information?
Because V'ger is going to destroy all the carbon units on the third planet.
They have repressed the Creator.
The information will not be disclosed.
Then V'ger must withdraw its orbiting devices.
V'ger will comply if the carbon units disclose the information.
Our data is being prepared.
<U>Answer</U>!
We will answer and present <U>proof</U> of our answer when it is ready!
You. Tell me the moral difference, if any, between the citizen and the civilian ?
The difference lies in the field of civic virtue. A citizen accepts personal responsibility for the safety of the body politic, of which he is a member, defending it, if need be, with his life. The civilian does not.
The exact words of the text. But do you understand it ? Do you believe it ?
Uh, I don't know.
Of course you don't. I doubt if any of you here would recognize 'civic virtue' if it bit you in the ass.
Mister Rasczak ?
What is it, Rico ?
I just wanted to say thanks 'cause History and Moral Philosophy was the best class I had this year.
Well, it's not really my job to please. Hope you learned something.
I wanna join up, Mr. Rasczak. I think I have what it take to be a citizen.
Good for you. Go find out.
Well, my parents are against it, and I know it's my choice, but I was wondering... What would you do if you were me ?
Figuring things out for yourself is the only freedom anyone really has. Use that freedom. Make your own choice, Rico.
Where'd you learn to do that, soldier ?
Uni High Tigers, sir. Don't you remember ? I was captain of the team.
I'm not interested in nostalgia, Rico, I need a corporal. You're it until you're dead or I find someone better.
All dead except one, sir.
Kill the bitch.
Yes, sir.
Yopu asked me some advice once, Rico. Want some now ?
Yes, sir...
Never pass up a good thing, eh ?
Corporal, the Roughnecks are moving out for Planet P immediately. Get yourself squared away and report to Gillespie for logistics.
Yes, sir !
Who's that with you ?
Rico, you're acting Sergeant now. My last Sergeant lost the com pack. Put together a search team and find the radio shack. We need retrieval.
Yes, sir.
What's that look like to you, Rico ?
Looks like a bug was in his brain, sir.
Warm it all up ! Everything you got ! Levy, collect the big guns from the towers. Watkins, put General Owen with the wounded. Rico, where's my communications ?
What's going on, Diz ?
Sergeant, secure the boat !
Yes, sir !
AAAAAAAAAAAA !
Cover us, Ace !
Hit your jets, sir !
I can't My legs are gone... Get on the boat...
Rico, tell'em to glass this goddam planet. I've never seen so many bugs upstairs at the same time...
We're not leaving you here, sir !
This is my farm. Get on the boat, NOW ! That's an order, Sergeant.
Give'em hell, sir !
This is Rodger Young... What's going on down there ? We're taking plasma ! We have Orion P11 as clear !
SHUT UP, SIR ! We need pick up now !
What is your position ?
Landing zone is extremely hostile. Come down on this transmission !
Inside 4th brigade compound ? That's crazy !
Then I hope you have a crazy pilot ! Keep the line open, Dizzy !
Don't get any ideas. She's my girl.
You can never be sure.
Best in the Fleet !
I get it. This is the part that's best for both of us. Don't do me anymore favors, eh ?
You got something to say about the Mobile Infantery ?
You heard me. Wanna make something out of it, private ?
Not with an officer, no, sir. The M.I. doesn't mint stupid cap troopers.
On whose authority, Corporal ?
This would be mine, sir. Acting Sergeant John Rico. I've assumed command on this mission.
You're standing on my H.Q., Lieutenant !
This is a Fleetdriven operation, son, and the Fleet thinks my boat will be safer on the high ground. You can have everything else, eh ?
You heard the Sky Marshall... Move it all down 
Rodger Young, prepare to receice outgoing fire...! I'll take the first group.
Saddle up, boys, that's our trash !
What's your problem now, Lieutenant ?
The Rodger Young just burned up...
We're outa here. Lieutenant, get your men into the skimmers. This real estate's about to go buggy.
Hey, just calm down, I'm giving the orders here
What do you think you're doing ?
I'm gonna save Carmen.
That would mean a comlete disregard for the mission objective. They hang you for that, Rico.
Yeah, that's right.
Let's go.
Move out.
Can you walk ?
Not a problem.
Let's get some armor on her, and the we'll get outa this stinkin bug hole !
How bad are you, pal ?
Been better, buddy.
Alright, we're gonna carry you...
Nah, I figureyou folks oughta get upstairs before it's too late... Gimmee the nuke.
Don't be a hero...
This is my farm. Now c'mon, give me what you got and get out of here...
Who said you could grow up so fast ? Last time I checked you were only five years old. You had such a bright little face...
Aw, don't get mushy.
Wait you two. Dad and I have a surprise for you that will settle this. Can you guess what it is ?
Uh, no.
I don't know what they teach at Harvard, but I think I'm pretty good enough the way I am !
Johnny, please. Calm yourself.
Well, that's what you're saying ! You're saying that I'm not good enough the way I am now !
Well, yeah, sure...
I hope so. I hope you don't ruin your life over some silly little girl who wants to look handsome in a uniform.
Hello... Oh, Johnny...!
Hi, mom.
Bill... pick up... it's Johnny ! You little rat. You haven't called, you haven't written. It's been so lonely here without you...
Well, of course you should come home immedietly !
I've made a mess of things. I've been so stupid...
No talking please. I'm going to ask you some questions. Please answer all questions truthfully. We'll know if you don't. Birthplace ?
Here in Buenos Aires.
Are your parents currently citizens ?
No, sir.
Which do you think is more important, courage or confidence ?
Courage, I guess.
Please complete this sentence. I want to be citizen because...
I want to be a citizen because... well, because of my girl, sir.
Smith, GO ! McIntire, GO ! Flores, GO ! Rico, I'm making you sqaud leader !
Sir, thank you, sir !
Don't stand there dumb... GO !
The Marauder power suit will prevent serious injury, but if you are hit, you will be nonoperational and your team score will suffer accordingly. Rico, has each member of your squad completed a weapons safety check ?
Sir, yes, sir !
Is that your signature, Rico ?
Sir, yes it is, sir.
Doesn't look like it to me.
Seeing as how we're about all that's left of 1st Brigade, you'd have to call that an improvement. You top kick ?
Are you kidding ? They always get killed. You want the job ?
I wouldn't mind.
I always wanted to go to Zegema Beach.
Good luck. It's not there anymore.
You knew the Lieutenant before the war... What was he like ?
He was a teacher , kind of a know it all... Always had this little smile.
Geez, I don't think I've ever seen him smile.
Must fill your bottle up real quick when your wife and kids get smeared.
At 0821 we received a distress call from Planet P, priority code, requesting reinforcement...
I thought 4th brigade cleaned out P.
Owen reported the eradication of a low generation colony a month ago. That's why MICOM wants onsite assessment.
Sounds more like some idiot at Military Intelligence Command wants to get me and my cap troopers killed...
Take your group down to P and have a look see. Leave the thinking to us, Lieutenant. That's not your job.
My job is to protect the lives of my soldiers so they can kill bugs, Major, and if you're walking me into a trap
Bugs don't lay traps... They aren't intelligent ! Unlike you, they're stupid enough to follow orders !
We must be right over the colony. Let's get some air support, eh ?
Yes, sir ! Fleet, this is Roughneck patrol, over ...?
Corporal, I want pulse cannons there and there ! Rifle teams, spread out along the ridge ! Sugar, bring up that flame thrower !
Fleet's pulling the battle group back to safe distance... They'd like us to knock out those batteries, sir.
They'd rather spend our lives than risk their ships. Who's got the nuke ?
I don't understand it, Lieutenant. It's not getting anything from 4th Brigade... not even their transponder.
Keep trying, Sergeant.
Gillespie, put in call for retrieval. We're off this rock. Gillespie, do you read me ?
AAAAAAAAAAA !
This came for you today. I presume on your request.
A lot of my friends are doing Federal Service...
Have you lost you lost your mind ? I'd rather take ten lashes in Public Square than see you ruin your life.
It's aterm of service, not a career. I just want to get out on my own and see the Galaxy for a couple of years.
Mr. Rasczak.
Rasczak... Silly name. There ought to be a law against using a school as a recruiting station !
No, Mr. Rasczak doesn't do that at all. He sorta discourages you really.
Good, because you're going to Harvard, and that's the end of it.
I'm eighteen. It's my decision.
Oh, is that how it is ?
A trip to the Outer Rings. Whad'ya think of that ?
Wow ! Santori and Zegema Beach, I've always wanted to go there.
Wait a minute ! Carl is doing his Federal and he isn't inferior. He's the smartest kid at school !
Sorry. Carl's a fine boy...
You'll resign, and that's all there is to it. It might look bad, but if that's the worst you suffer...
I won't quit !
I'm telling you, you will ! You're not going back. You're going to go on vacation !
I'm not going on vacation ! I want to be acitizen ! It's my decision. I made it.
Well, it's just good to hear from you. What's up, son ?
It's not really working out for me here, dad. I was thinking... I was hoping it would be alright if I came home.
Johnny, people get hurt... people get killed in the Federal Service. If something happened to you I don't know what I would do...
Who gave you this idea ? It's that teacher. What's his name ? You know the one I mean.
Good good, then it's all settled.
A year at Harvard and you'll see this "Federal Service" is just menial training for inferior people so they can call themselves "citizens" and take airs for the rest of their lives.
Why did you go and do that ? He was all ready to go Zegema Beach !
Teenagers !
...CUT OFF !
Johnny, why won't you change your mind ? Does citizenship mean so much to you ?
Don't talk like that. Get yourself home as fast as you can.
We'll all have dinner. I'll fix your favorite.
Yeah ! We'll talk it out and have a good glass of wine ... and... well, we love you, son.
Oh, my, what's that ?
Looks like rain.
This time of the year...?
A lot can happen in three minutes.
Hut... hut !
What ?
You were drifting. Flip six, three hole. On one, got it ?
Just throw me the ball, Diz.
Hey, Rico, wanna dance ?
Actually, Diz, I promised Carmen...
Too bad for her if she's not around.
You still gonna play for Brazil ?
Looks like, unless Tokyo lets me start.
Well, anyone who gets you is lucky.
How come we never got together ?
Can't we just be friends, Diz ?
Sure.
Uh, look, Diz...
Guess you gotta go.
You're the best.
Hey, amigo, come chow with me.
No thanks, Diz.
What's your malfunction, Rico ?
You are. I joined up to get out on my own. And you had to tag along.
What ? You think I joined the Mobile Infantery because of you ?
You saying you didn't ?
Man, they're defended... no way in.
Flip six, three hole.
What ?
High school... remember ? Run a flip six, three hole play, and you might score...
Cover me.
You got it.
It stinks, you goin.
I don't stay where I'm not wanted.
If they didn't want you, they woulda kicked you out, amigo.
Hey, they humiliated me in front of everyone ! I'm just supposed to take it, huh ? Well, I'm not gonna, and I guess that proves I just can't cut it.
Well, see ya.
You take the stroll down Washout Lane, you're only proving one thing, Johnny.
What's that, Diz ?
That you don't have what it takes to be acitizen !
Way to go, amigo !
I'm gonna need a squad leader.
C'mon...
Nah, I don't do that anymore...
You used to dance...
I said no. Want me to pull rank ?
Well, excuse me, sir...
Hey, Diz...
What ?
Planet P ? What kind of name is that ?
They ran out of names a long time ago in this part of the galaxy.
Diz, see what you can do.
I'm on it !
What frequency ?
All bands.
Roughneck patrol to battle group... Roughneck patrol to battle group...
I bought the farm, didn't I, Johnny ?
No, you're gonna be alright, Diz !
It's alright 'cause I got to have you, Johnny...
Steady as she goes, number one. Prepare for warp. Number two, design for Jupiter orbit.
Yes, ma'am. Star drive in three... two... one...
Report.
Captain, we are in the path of an unidentified object moving at near light speed...
Where'd it come from ?
Trajectory indicates it came out of the Arachnid Quarantine Zone.
Number 4, contact Fleet and tell 'em there's a loose asteroid headed their way.
This isn't random or light. Someone made amistake...!
That's it, we're empty ma'am !
Pilot Trainee Ibanez reporting for duty, ma'am.
Take the number one chair, Ibanez. Follow all instructions of you supervisor.
Yes, ma'am !
Alright, take her out, Ibanez.
Yes, ma'am.
Good work, Number 1. You'll do.
Thank you, ma'am.
Plasma, ma'am... from the planet.
Bug Batteries... According to Military Intelligence, it'll be random and light. Drop status ?
Where's Lieutenant Barcalow ?
He requested a combat assignment. There's always a need for experienced pilots on the ground. I had no choice but to let him go... He said you'd understand.
This is Rodger Young, we're going down... Repeat, this is Rodger Young, we're going down...!
Ibanez...LET'S GO !
Leave me, Lieutenant ! That's an order !
No way, ma'am !
Good for you.
Your turn...
She's flying starships !
Who ?
Marco's sister. Can you imagine maneuvering half a million tons through crwoded space lanes... You gotta have nerves of steel ! Reflexes are critical
I have good reflexes.
Eeuch !
Aw, c'mon, it's just a bug.
Well, if that's the crop, that must be the gastric caecal...
Excuse me...!
35% on the math final ! No one could be that dumb with numbers.
Well, at least you didn't lose your lunch over a bug. How embarassing.
Who cares about bugs ? You can't go anywhere if you don't know math.
Don't be so sure. I like you even if you are dumb with numbers.
Then how come you won't hold hands with me at school ?
I don't want everyone to see.
Why won't you kiss me when we're all alone ?
How come that's all you talk about anymore ?
It's all I think about anymore.
You can't walk me home.
Why not ?
I thought you were going to help Carl.
Carl can wait.
Johnny, my Dad's home today.
What's he got against me... I mean, I 'm a teenager. You can't be a citizen when you're only a teenager !
It's not you, Johnny. Your parents are rich they don't need to be citizens, and that stuff means a lot to my dad. He's a veteran.
Well, if your dad doesn't like me, how come we're such good friends ?
Sometimes I do what I want, eh ?
Isn't it great to be in love ?
How do I know if this is love ?
It wouldn't be so romantic if we weren't...
Romance is just a vestigial biological response to procreation...
Aw, you're in love with me... You just dont know it yet.
Wait, I want to talk to Mr. Rasczak.
I'll meet you outside.
None at all... We won.
Good luck at the academy.
He just got accepted to the Fleet Academy. Isn't that great ?
Yeah, sure, I guess.
No, I mean if he can get in, maybe I have a chance.
What are you talking about ? We both know you're gonna be a pilot.
Zander is going for pilot, too.
You two have so much in common.
Johnny Rico, you're jealous !
I can't help it.
He's nothing like you.
I don't even know if you're my girl.
Are you the boy for me ?
I'm gonna do it, Carmen. I'm gonna sign up for Federal Service.
Everyone's looking... we shouldn't...
Who cares ?
You're right. Let's never stop...
I love you, Carmen.
Shhh...
I wonder where Carl is. You don't suppose...?
Naw, I made it, Carl made it.
He was in the group with me. I guess he didn't...
Shhh ! Don't make him feel worse.
Hey, Carl, what's wrong ?
Did you get Starside R&D ?
Games & Theory ? That's Military Intelligence... Oh, Carl !
Whoa ! Way to go, boyyo !
Let's all make a vow. Let's swear we'll always be friends no matter what.
I'll go for that.
You're late.
My Dad had to help me pack. Suddenly he's afraid he's never gonna see me again or something. It was sweet, but it took forever. Anyway, I guess I'm ready to go.
Poor boy. I'm sorry your parents were so mad.
Who cares ! The Federation'll give me everything I need for the next two years, right ?
You talk to Carl ?
He left this morning. He couldn't say where.
I'm gonna miss you.
I'll miss you, too, Johnny.
I love you.
Com'on, just say it. Try it on for size.
Alright, I love you.
Do you mean it ?
I said it. Isn't that enough ? Don't forget to write !
Shhhh...!
I'm glad you're doing so well. If they haven't made you squad leader by now, I'm sure you will.
What happened to your hair ?
What do you think ? Everyone did it when we got our wings. You don't like it, do you ?
It's alright, I guess. You hear from anyone made it out of B.A. alive ?
It's funny. Sometimes I forget. Then it hits me, and I can't stop crying.
I try just to be happy I'm still alive.
You don't look very happy to see me.
Should I be ?
Johnny... Life is so different from the way it was. One day you'll see what I did was best for both of us.
What's wrong with you ?
Hey, it's just a vestigal response to procreation... bitch.
Johnny...! I thought you were dead !
I'm not, but alot of my soldiers are. Glass the planet !
...I'm sorry.
We gotta choke on the mud and the blood and Fleet can't be bothered to spit.
No, I think something's up. The Sky Marshall's here.
I thought you were KIA, Johnny...
That was just a mix up.
You look so... I don't know, you look like you've really been in it.
What happened to your eye ?
Almost got knocked out of the sky over Big K.
I like it. It's kinda...you.
Well, look at this. The three of us back together again.
How are you, Carl ?
Take care, wilya Johnny ?
See you on the bounce !
AAAAAAAAAAAAAA !
We've gotta go get her !
Which way ?
Up. We gotta be near A Company by now.
Are you alright ?
I'm getting better.
So what are you doing later ?
Everyone is going to the dance. Aren't you ?
I don't know. It's my last night as acivilian. I ship out for Tereshkova tomorrow.
I'm all ears.
Don't you have to finish the game ?
Johnny, this is Zander.
Yeah, we know each other from the game. No hard feeling, eh, chum ?
Hey ! What are you doing here ?
I'm the guy who's gonna teach you to fly this crate.
Assistant insructor... You must be some kind of a hot stick. Should I call you "sir" ?
Only when I give you an order.
It's amazing, us running into each other like this. Maybe it's fate.
Maybe not. I heard about this crazy girl coming through the academy, solid math, a little wild on the stick, but a natural. When it turned out it was you, I made sure we'd run into each other...
In simulation, my supervisors could never keep up.
This isn't simulation anymore. Take'er out easy, cadet.
Oh, yes, sir. Vector ?
Twentyfive by five, roll seven. And don't exceed port speed.
Or...?
They revoke our flight status.
Oh, I see... teamwork.
Thanks. You read my mind. Third watch always seems to last forever.
Oh, I don't know... Depends on who you are spending it with.
Profile's wrong... there.
No, I replotted the course. It's more efficient this way.
Three weeks aboard a starship and you know it all, huh ?
Hey, check it.
You know I was talking to Captain, Deladier, and she said...
Don't change the subject. Am I right ?
Well, whad'ya know...
Don't mess with the boss. So what'd the captain say ?
She got a command... and she thinks we oughta team up officially and crew for her. She thinks we're good together.
You and me, huh ?
I want to be part of the best flight team in the Fleet...
Me, too... Day and NightCycle.
WHERE IS IT ?
THERE ! GRAVITY FIELD... IT'S BIG !
It looks like an... asteroid.
Everything coposetic, Lieutenant ?
Zander, you remember Johnny ? Zander and I are a flight team now.
Johnny, wait...
Forget it, Carmen. The Mobile Infantery does a thankless, dirty job, so they naturally tend to be shorttempered, thoughtless and rude.
Let's disregaed rank... Everybody hear that ? Rank is not an issue here.
Zander, please... Let's go !
I was thinking. Maybe we should get married, Carmen.
You weren't thinking...you were dreaming !
If we're gonna be a team, why not be a real team ?
There's a war on. I want a command, I want my own ship, you do, too...
So ?
So who's got time to get married ?
Fleet encourages marriages among flight officers. You'd probably get a promotion out of it.
Funny...
I'm not kidding. Marriage is 
No, funny there's almost no wounded at all.
Hey, bugs don't take prisoners.
Carmen...?
Excuse me...!
I'm sorry, Carmen.
Please, I... Everybody's lost someone by now. This shouldn't be any different...
No, I... Oh, Zander, I'm a fool.
You're upset, that's alright.
Where are you going ?
A funeral.
That girl who died on the way up ...his girl ?
Yeah.
How do you feel about him now ?
I don't know, Zander.
I do.
I thought I was dead. Lucky for me you jokers showed up, eh ?
It wasn't luck. Rico ignored the mission objective to rescue you...
Is it true ?
Zander, what are you doing ?
Just giving you something to remember me by, baby.
Zander, no...!
You still haven't kissed her yet ? Don't lie.
What's the hurry ?
Others are waiting.
Did you read her mind ?
Don't have to... Some mating semaphore is pretty hard to miss.
Yeah, but I want Carmen.
You got it bad.
Don't think about it... go on instinct.
Ace of spades.
Statistically speaking you should've accidentally guessed right by know.
In addition to "psychic dolt" this test also proves I'm unlucky ? Two of hearts.
How do you make him do that ?
I gave him the impression that there was a fly crawling up my mom's leg. He is going to go eat it.
Ten of clubs. You still gonna sign up for Starside R&D ?
Passport to the Universe. Who wouldn't want that ?
I've been thinking about applying for Federal Service, too. Fleet, maybe.
Your father will never let you.
I'm eighteen. It's my decision, I think I'd make a pretty good pilot. I've good great reflexes. You need that for maneuvering, you know.
Only 1 in 14 male applicants make it through stellar navigation. So what do you think your chances are ?
Eight point... no, uh, seven...
If you can't do those numbers, you haven't got a chance.
All I know is Carmen's going to be a citizen, and I don't think it'll work out for us if I'm not.
Love... how excruciatingly pathetic. Now try and pay attention.
I don't believe it !
I got Games & Theory.
Please continue, Sergeant.
Dizzy wouldn't want our tears. She'd want us to remember her... with a vengeance. So go out and kill a bug for Dizzy. Kill as many as you can. You are her revenge, and every bug you kill honors her death.
Johnny, I'm sorry it had to be your unit on Planet P. That mission had a very low survival probability...
Bugs laid a trap, didn't they ?
Elegant proof of intelligence, isn't it ? We thought there might be a brain on P.
You don't approve. Well, too bad. We're in this for the species, boys and girls. It's simple numbers, they have more, and everyday I have to make decisions that send hundreds of people like you to their deaths.
Didn't they tell you, Colonel ? That's what cap troopres are good for.
Hope you're ready for more. We're going back to P to capture that Brain.
The Roughnecks are always ready, sir.
I hear they need a new Lieutenant... Want the job ?
I'll take it... until I get killed or you find someone better.
You always told me you couldn't do human...
I can't... but like I told you, it's a number's game. The Federation needs all the pilots it can get...
Rico, did you give the recruit permission to remove his helmet ?
Sir, yes, sir. Breckinridge reported a helmet malfunction, and I asked him to show it to me, sir.
Are you rated to repair a Marauder power suit, Rico ?
Sir, no, sir.
Then why did you order your man to remove his helmet during a live fire exercise ?
Sir, I needed everyone in my squad operational, sir... I... I wanted to win, sir.
Do you freely admit to the charges made against you ?
Sir... I guess I do, sir.
Sir, I wish to reconsider my request to drop out, sir.
Sorry, son. I can't do it. You signed the 1240/A. It would be illegal.
Sir, i know it was wrong. I didn't learn from one mistake and I made another, sir. Sir, my family... my whole family was in Buenos Aires, sir.
You got some guts for a rich kid. I guess you and me could be buddies.
What an honor...
Hey, don't laugh. Everyone oughta have a friend like me !
What makes you think... you'll make... squad leader, Rico ?
Something... I've got...you don't.
You rich kids... are all the same !
It isn't about rich... It's about who's best...!
Wanting it doesn't make you the best one for the job.
Oh, yeah ? I don't see anyone else here with the chops to lead.
Well, maybe you better look again.
Our love will grow, dear, year by year...
Bye ! Write me ! I'm gonna kill you guys !
Funny how they always want to be your friends after they kick your guts out.
It's what I deserve.
Whad'ya talkin about ?
I joined up for her. I wouldn't even be here if it wasn't for her. I'm a fool.
You made squad leader on your own, and, hey, you still got me to kick around.
I say we all go to the laser parlor and get cut together.
What do I want with a scar ?
No, this hurts.
YAAAAAAAA !
Mobile Infantery rules !
Death to all bugs !
Lieutenant's bought the farm. Where's the Sarge...?
I didn't see him !
Dizzy says you two knew this Rasczak character in Buenos Aires...
He was our teacher... He was great.
Yeah, well, I hear he's a real nutbuster.
No way. Big K taught me I ain't executive material.
What about it, Diz ?
Jeez, we musta killed a million already...!
Not enough, I guess.
We got reinforced. Most of'em just got outa boot...
We're the old men, Ace.
We'll take this high ground. Lookouts there and therte and up there. If the bugs come upstairs in this neighborhood, we'll be the first to know.
Got it. Fleet tactical wants to know where they can deploy the skimmers.
Down there on the flats, eh ? Listen up, Roughnecks ! Our primary objective is to assist our friends from the Fleet...
Mr. Barcalow, save power, don't waste it on workers... Ace, tell Aardvark we're on our way...
Yes, sir !
Saddle up, Roughnecks !
You heard the Lieutenant ! On the bounce, troopers !
Not unless you could get me into the military academy at Anchorhead.
I'm sorry, sir, I'm only a 'droid,' and not very knowledgeable of such things... not on this system anyway. As a matter of fact, I'm not even sure which system we're on.
That's all right. There is nothing anyone can do about it. You can call me Luke.
Thank you, sir. I'm See Threepio, Human Cyborg relations, and this is my counterpart, Artoo Detoo.
There's a lot of carbon scoring here. It looks like you boys have seen a lot of action...
Indeed, sir, sometimes I'm amazed we're in as good shape as we are, what with the rebellion and all...
You've been in the Counter Wars?... Against the Empire?
That's how we came to be in your service, if you take my meaning...
Tell me where you've been. I am going to become a startrooper and fight in the wars. My father was a Jedi! Were you in many battles?
Several, I think. There is not much to tell. I'm not much more than an interpreter, and not very good at telling stories, not at making them interesting anyway...
According to my father's tapes, this is the spot where General Kenobi lives, but the instruments just don't match up with the landscape... There is no doubt about it, we're lost...
If you don't mind my saying so, sir, I don't see how anyone could live in this forsaken place.
Well, I don't know what to do now. We'll just have to head inland and see if we can't find a settlement.
What happened? I'm sorry, sir, I must have taken a bad step...
Can you stand? We've got to get out of here before those Tuskens come back.
I can't make it. You go on, master Luke. It doesn't make sense for you to risk yourself on my account. I'm done for.
No, you're not. What kind of talk is that...
I think we're going to need them. Blast it!
Sir, I have a couple of extra circuits. Perhaps they might bring something.
Well, ask him. Tell him we need five thousand.
Let him have it. You're winning anyway. It doesn't make any difference.
I know, sir, but it's the principle of the thing.
Level five, Detention block A23, cell 2187. She's still alive...
Send feedback into the control sensors in that Detention block.
See Threepio... do you copy?
I read you sir.
You're back. What happened? Never mind. What's going on?
I'm afraid we're not plugged in at the moment, sir. We've had some problems.
Are you safe?
For the moment. We're in the main hangar. Artoo is trying to plug into the system now.
Good. We're right above you. Stand by.
Wait a minute, slow down!... That's better. They're where? They what? They are? Oh, no! We're going to be mashed into conduit before this is over...
See Threepio! Do you copy?
Holy Maker, Threepio. I forgot...
Are you there, sir? We're going...
Threepio! Shut down all garbage mashers on your level... Do you copy?? Threepio, shut down all garbage...
Thank you, sir. Your kindness is greatly appreciated, but if it's at all possible, Artoo and I would like to remain in your service.
I'd consider it an honor.
First thing tomorrow morning you're going to check those condensing units on the south ridge.
I will, but I'll have enough time to transmit my application first.
You'll check the condensing unit first... and you're not going to bed until those 'droids' are completely cleaned up...
But you promised! I've saved enough money and now you have the extra help ... you promised!
I said we'd see. And as it is, I was forced to borrow your academy savings to buy the new 'droids.' When you've saved it up again, I'll let you go.
You used my savings! You stole my savings. If my father were here...
Your father's dead. Don't ever forget who's taking care of you, giving you food, giving you shelter, and giving you the allowance in the first place. If you plan to work at the academy the way you work around here, you won't last very long. I don't want another word. Finish your dinner, then finish cleaning those 'droids.'
What is it? What's going on? Where are we?
You're safe. We've come to get you out of here... Just relax.
I am Luke Starkiller at your service.
There'll be time for that later. Now let's get out of here.
Are there medical facilities on Yavin?
He'll be well cared for.
And you?
I... I don't know. I guess I never thought about it... I just want to help. I want to be in on the attack. I want my own ship.
If you're as good a pilot as you are a swordsman... We're the ones who have been rewarded.
Enough! I already know about the data you've intercepted, but its' too late. Whatever information you've gathered will be destroyed... You will come to know such suffering as only the Master of the Bogan Force can provide...
You'll get no information from me. You have no authority... the council can't hold me!
It appears your ship had an accident. I will see to it that your death is duely reported. There will be no one to save you this time.
The 'Death Star' has become operational. There is no force in the universe that can stop us now.
They'll find its weakness.
It's too late... We already tested it on Organa Major. It appears your data never got through.
No!...
It would be much easier if you were to tell us where the outposts are... Otherwise we'll be forced to destroy every suspicious system... What a waste...
A Wookiee broke loose up here, but we've subdued him... There is a lot of damage, and three, no four, casualties...
We'll send a squad up.
No need, everything's under control.
With four casualties?!
The... ah door's jammed. Give us a few minutes to get it fixed.
Who is this? What's your operating...
Organa Major is a rebel system. There will be quite a few starfleet patrols between here and there... It could be a little tricky if you want to avoid them... ten thousand.
That's pretty steep. We'd like to talk it over first.
You got yourself a ship. We can leave as soon as you're ready.
We have a little business to take care of first, but it shouldn't take long. We'll be back shortly.
Who's the pilot?
It's automatic.
I'd keep that thing close just in case, if I were you... I've been around from one end of the galaxy to the other and believe me this Force of Others stuff may make for good religion, but there is no substitute for a good weapon at your side.
You don't believe in the Force?
Sorcery! I believe in myself... I determine my destiny, not some mystical energy field.
I found it... It's just not there.
What are you saying?
You can't! We've come this far. We must find them...
Why?
Maybe you should just drop us off. I'm sure we can find someone willing to take the risk.
All right, all right! You've got a ship! But where do we go from here? They probably took her to find the hidden bases... I don't see how we can find the rebels before she breaks. The Empire has already beat us out.
No, it's impossible... No one, and I mean no one would venture anywhere near the Alderaan system... I'm a free booter, not revolutionary. You're aboard the wrong ship, son!
Maybe the fact that no one would go there voluntarily could help us. They probably don't think anyone would dare try.
Don't you believe it.
Well, I practice a lot...
You're good with 'remotes,' but how are you against something living?
I don't know... I've never fought anyone.
Between his howling and your blasting everything in sight, the entire city is going to know we're here.
Good! I prefer a straight fight to all this sneaking around.
This isn't going to work.
Why didn't you say so before.
I think I did.
Something has happened to them. Let's try this way...
Let's try this way! Holy Maker.
See Threepio, come in, See Threepio. I wonder where they are?? See Threepio...
I think she's going to be all right.
Not if this tunnel deadends.
Is he afraid of the water?
No, he smells something... but we haven't time to worry about it now.
Watch it! Move back.
Get Chewbacca. Try to get around it. I'll draw it away.
It's only light that doesn't affect it. Solid things, like rocks, can hurt it! Fire above him!
Move out of the way!
Get to the ship!
Come back here... Where are you going?
I don't pick up any life form concentration down there. She'd better be right.
They must be shielded somehow. I'm sure the base is there.
Well, if it's not, we'll be facing that Death Star all by our lonesome.
You're a good pilot... I've learned a lot from you... I wish you...
I know, but the chances for survival here just aren't great enough in my book. I've got what I came for. Now I've got to get back to my ship.
I noticed you were having some problems, Blue Five... I thought I'd help.
Thanks, old buddy. I'll be with you in a second.
Put that thing away or you're going to get us all killed.
Yes, your highness. I'll let you open it then. It won't be too long before they figure out what happened to us. This has turned into a brilliant escape!
It could be worse...
Here come six more... grid two!
Was this trip really necessary?
There are only three or four left.
Chewbacca, it's time we showed them this isn't the regulation F888 Cargo Trawler.
All the data banks in Artoo are still secure.
Then I think we're due the reward you offered... and it had better be substantial after what we've been through.
When Artoo has been safely delivered to my forces, you get your reward. You have my guarantee.
What's that little 'droid' carrying that's so blasted important?
The plans and specifications to a battle station with enough fire power to destroy an entire system... Our only hope in destroying it is to find its weakness, which we will determine from the data I stored in Artoo.
We captured the plans in a raid on the Imperial shipyards, but we fell under attack before I could get the data to safety, so I hid it in this Artoo unit and sent him off.
Where are you taking us now anyway?
The fourth moon of Yavin. I've given the coordinates to Chewbacca.
I'd better go see how he's doing.
I don't see how we're going to find anything out here. This terrain is hopeless.
Did it occur to you they might find us?
We must hurry to the base. We have little time before the Death Star arrives.
I'd like to get paid before that eventually. I don't plan to stick around for the fireworks.
What about us? Are we to wait forever? Is our reward to be blown to bits on this forsaken system, while your fleet mounts some suicidal attack on that Death Star? Part of my reward is that I be around to spend it.
I have little time for your mercenary concerns, but I am grateful for the service you have given to our cause. What is your price?
No reply on any circuits... It's drifting on a point twentyseven skew. It's not close enough to identify.
Alert squad five, but hold them until we know what it is.
Should we alert the Sith Lords?
I'll make a report later.
As close as we can make out, it appears to be a Corellian gypsy vessel... It's not under power.
Send one squad up.
We don't get many visitors. Let's take a look at it.
Send out a boarding party. Full assault gear.
You're Starkiller?
Yes, sir.
Have you been checked out?
Yes, sir. I was considered one of the best bush pilots on Sullust. I've also had six hours on the T2.
Six hours, huh? Well, that's your ship there. You're blue five. You stay glued to me. I don't want any independent operations out there. Personally I think it's foolish for them to be sending fresh kids out on a job like this. This is no joy ride we're going on.
Yes, sir.
Blue Five, does that glare bother you?
I've got it blocked. I'm all right.
I'm right behind you, Blue Leader.
What's that?
Blue Five, break off your cover attack. It's too late. Make your own run on the exhaust port. Do you copy, Luke?
Yes, sir, but I can get him...
Forget it, son.
Of course, where you been kid?
You look great! The uniform and everything!
That's no battle, kid... They're just sitting there!
But there was a lot of firing earlier...
I'll tell you, Luke, and this is between you and me. The star force isn't all it's cracked up to be. Frankly, it's a bore, and it's going to stay that way as long as this system is neutral...
But you always said things were so great at the academy... What happened?
The academy is fantastic... Of course, they won't teach you anything about flying you don't already know. Most of the instructors are very conservative pilots. You can fly circles around them... but there is a lot on the scientific side that is downright amazing, and you get a lot of discipline... but after you graduate, don't join the star force  go freelance. It's the only way to get into the action... I can't wait until my hitch is up.
At least you're doing something... I'd give anything to be in your position.
Just be warned, that things aren't always as they seem... especially the starforce recruiting posters.
Good morning!
What do you mean, 'good morning'? Do you mean that it is a good morning for you, or do you wish me a good morning, although it is obvious I'm not having one, or do you find that mornings in general are good?
All of them altogether. You seem to have gotten yourself into a fine mess! What happened?
Sorry, but that was the only way to get you down.
Couldn't we have tried to think of something else first!
You're lucky those Tuskens didn't boil you before they hung you out to dry. They're not the friendly sort. You'd best be moving on before they come back.
I'm Luke Starkiller, guardian of the Bendu.
Oh, so you're a warrior then?
Of course. I'm a Bendu officer.
Who are you anyway?
You might say I'm part of the landscape here. They call me Ben Kenobi.
You're General Kenobi?!? The Jedi knight! The commander of the White Legions?
I'm afraid it's been a long time since the White Legions roamed the stars. But I have the memories.
I don't see why. I don't believe we've ever met.
I am the son of Annikin Starkiller.
I know who you are. Stand up so that we can talk properly. You're embarrassing me. I'm not that important.
But you are... I know your 'Diary of the Clone Wars' by heart. My father...
I... I'm not a Bendu Officer. I'm not even a startrooper.
I know that.
You saw through me?
You could put it that way.
I assure you my intentions weren't bad.
I know your intentions. I probably know much more about you than you realize. In many ways you're a lot like your father. He was an indulgent man, but a clever warrior. Now what brings you out here?
My father told me many stories about you. He said if I was ever in trouble, to come here... I need your help.
I'm afraid I've gotten too old for this sort of thing.
But you must! I can't do it alone. I'm not at all like my father. I'd never make it.
I already know you think you're worthless. I recommend you learn to think of yourself in a better light, for what you believe you are is what you become. I haven't been involved in anything like this for many years.
But the Sith Lords are involved! Whatever information this R2 unit is carrying, it must be awfully important. They're probably looking for him... I'm no match for the Sith. This is a Jedi's work. This is your responsibility!
Not any more!
You were right. It is my responsibility. The Force of Others brought the message to you and then it brought you to me.
My father used to talk about the Force of Others. But he never told me what it was...
Let's just say the Force is something a Jedi Warrior deals with. It is an energy field in oneself, a power that controls ones acts, yet obeys ones commands. It is nothing, yet it makes marvels appear before your very eyes. All living things generate this Force field, even you.
You mean I generate an energy field?
It surrounds you and radiates from you. A Jedi can feel it flowing from him... ... from here!
Could I learn to feel it?
That is not a human decision, not your or mine.
What do you mean?
It means you'd better get some rest. We'll be leaving for Mos Eisley first thing in the morning. The trip will be difficult and dangerous, but it's the only spaceport with ships large enough to get us to Organa Major. Now go on!
Luke, I'm coming along to do what I can, but I'm tired and I'm depending on you to get us through.
But you're still a powerful Jedi. You don't need my help.
A Jedi's power is measured by the amount of the Force that is stored within him, and I have little of the Force left in me.
How can you store an energy field within you?
When a creature dies, the force it generated remains. The Force is all around us. It can be collected and transmitted through the use of a Kiber crystal. It's the only way to amplify the power of the Force within you.
Don't you have a Kiber crystal?
I had one, but it was taken at the battle of Condawn...
That's where my father was killed.
Yes. It was a black day. One of my disciple's took the crystal and became a Sith Lord. It was a black day. The few crystals that remain are in the possession of the Sith Lords on Alderaan. That's how they've become so powerful.
Do the Sith know the ways of the Force?
They use the Bogan Force.
Like Bogan weather, or bogan times. I thought that was just a saying.
There are two halves of the Force of Others. One is positive and will help you if you learn how to use it. But the others half will kill you if you aren't careful. This negative side of the Force is called the Bogan, which is where the expression came from, and it is the part that is used by the Dark Lords to destroy their opponents. Both halves are always present. The Force is on your right, the Bogan is on your left. The Kiber Crystal can amplify either one. The Crystal Darth stole was the last one in the possession of the Jedi. When he joined the Sith, the power of the Dark Lords was completed.
We don't have that kind of money. How much do you think I can get for the speeder?
Five, maybe. Let me handle it.
This is the last place. Shouldn't we just take what we can get and think of something else?
He's bluffing...
When we get Artoo's message to them, you think they'll try to rescue the princess?
I doubt it. It would be foolish for the rebel forces to come out of hiding. I know your feelings. You'd best forget them. It's for your own good. There will be no saving her from the prisons of Alderaan. It's the heart of the Sith. The Bogan Force is the most heavy there.
But she's a member of The Twelve Families. How can they hold her?
These are doubtful times. The Empire has grown bold in its disregard of the...
What's wrong? What's happening?
Keep away, I'm fine, I'm fine.
Are you all right?
Yes... the Force... something horrible has happened. I couldn't see what it was, or where it was, but it was terrible... terrible beyond description... the cry of millions dying at once.
Are you sure you don't need it?
I rarely use it any more. I have the Force. The Force is more powerful than any pistol. You shouldn't put too much faith in that weapon. Work on becoming aware of the Force... learn to feel its presence within you. Try to sense what it's telling you. It's the only thing you can rely on.
What do I do?
All you have to do is lose your thinking self. Don't focus on anything. Let your body do your thinking... You have to learn to act on what you feel, not what you think ... If I had the crystal, it would be much easier. You could feel the Force immediately... but for now, let yourself go. You'll pick it up... and someday you'll have no need for that pistol either.
What is it?
He can't find Organa Major.
But she is the only link between us and the hidden bases.
You mean we should go after her!...
I didn't say that, but it appears to be a logical alternative.
I can't see! How can I fight?
Try to feel it. Use the Force...
I can't do it. I'll get hit.
Stop thinking, and start feeling. Let yourself go.
See, once you let yourself go you can do it. You'll get it.
I don't get it, but I guess I did block it.
What about the princess?
You go after the princess. I am an old man and would be of little help. I must try to find the Crystal.
I'm not going alone!
The Kiber Crystal.
Keep it with you always. You'll have more need of it than I. It will bring the Force to you. You've already learned to feel it... Now you must learn to use it.
I'm Han Solo, Captain of this vessel. Who's in charge then?
I'm Ben Kenobi. Luke Starkiller here is leading our expedition.
Well, we'll see...
You might get your stuff together. We'll be coming up on Organa Major soon.
The Empire must have gotten here first.
The planet has been totally blown away! It would have taken a thousand ships with a lot more fire power than I've ever seen... If the Empire had a new weapon that could do this... I would have heard something... I'd know about it.
Well, now you know... The enemy is on the move. We haven't much time.
Well, I've brought you here. What now?
We have to find he rebels... What we're carrying belongs to them.
Their bases are very well hidden. All the power of the Empire can't find them... Do you know where they are?
No, not anymore.
I'm not taking you on an impossible search across the galaxy... I was only paid to get you here and now you're here. I'll take my other five thousand and you're on your own... I'll leave you on the nearest system.
Well, for one reason, we don't have your other five thousand.
Who's going to pay me then?
I think there are some things we should talk about.
I'm beginning not to like you.
How much do you think she's talking about?
A million at least... If this robot has information related to the destruction of Organa Major, you'll be able to name the reward...
Anything I want! Now that's interesting.
Luke's got a point... ... Fear is their greatest defense... I doubt if the actual security there is much greater than on Aquilae or Sullust, and what there is is most likely directed toward largescale assault.
This isn't a game, you know.
Kid, you take the glory and the good intentions and I'll take the reward.
Fear is their greatest weapon.
I'm not afraid of anything...
You have your father's style. You've done very well.
Not bad.
We're into the second perimeter. They'll be coming out to blast us shortly. I was wondering if you had some kind of a plan or are we going to try to blast our way in?
Check your data banks for all the information you have on Imperial procedures. Both of you will have to learn...
We're going to get in by studying Imperial procedures? I don't like it.
All right then, we'll use your plan.
I'll get the information.
... and I want you to start cleaning the equipment out of the scan shielded compartments.
What do you want with our scanproof lockers?
Darth Vader is on this system. I can feel him. I can feel the Kiber Crystal.
Is that good or bad?
It's not good... unless I could find the Crystal. Then it could be very good.
Don't look at me. I'm just a pilot. I got you here... You've got to do the rest.
There is a greater risk in staying here, you know. If you don't find the princess, then the whole trip was for nothing... wasn't it?
I'm not going out there.
That's straight through the central core... up toward the top of the city... Once you've got her, avoid the main transports, they'll shut down immediately. Your only chance is through the service shafts. There are no sensors there... All right now, get going, you don't have time. I hope you can remember everything.
We'll be back before you are, old man.
May the Force be with you.
What kind of a crash was it?
You seen my suitcase?
There's nothing on the news about a crash. Did he say what airline?
He didn't say much at all. Honey 
In the closet. I don't understand, Norman  why would they call you?
Don't be so supportive, honey.
Well, I can't imagine five years of unemployment 
Four. Four years 
Four years of unemployment would look too good on a resume.
Keep watching the news. Are you watching the news?
How are you getting to the airport? You need money for the bus?
There's a U.S. Navy car outside, Norman.
What?
Was it a military crash?
I don't know.
They never used to send a Navy car.
He wasn't feeling well.
He's a pussy.
You want me to try?
You're a 53 year old shrink, what are you gonna do?
Strange, isn't it? You know  how it would have a button.
Earth doesn't have a patent on buttons, Ted.
Still, make a note I recognized that.
He's manic, Norman. You know that? This reliance on Harry is misplaced. You hear me? Totally misplaced. He's overlooking things. Obvious things.
Like what?
It's not some fucking substitution code, it's a direct visual representation.
You mean a picture?
Take a look. I rearranged the numbers. Put 'em up to the light. Go ahead. Squint at it.
I don't see anything.
Squint harder.
Please, Ted.
Try this one.
This is like nursery school.
Don't you see it? It's a picture of the creature.
The creature?
Inside the sphere. Look, that's the vertical torso, three legs, two arms. There's no head, so I'm guessing the creature's head is located within the torso itself, you know?
Well, how about we wait and see what Harry comes up with?
Sure, why not. Give him the trophy. That pretentious son of a bitch. You heard him, Norman. All that "someone went to a lot of trouble, try again" bullshit. And "impotent". Where does he get off saying I'm impotent? He's a fucking selfrighteous, little prick.
Well, he's polite.
Unless it's an act.
You want to put him on your couch, Norman. Grill him about his childhood?
When he uses a phrase like "I am Happy", I think we should think twice about what we ask him.
Frankly, Ted, I'd be much happier if Jerry was just a cold, emotionless intellect.
Why's that?
What was it?
Barnes didn't know. Couldn't get a reading.
Has Harry spoken with Jerry?
Not that I know of. Why?
You think Jerry has something to do with what killed Edmunds? With what's out there?
I'm not sure.
Jerry isn't hostile, Norman. He said earlier  we were his friends 
Of course he did. He's been isloated for 400 years. He wants someone to talk to. Look, you put a human being in isolation for four days, they can become neurotic, sometimes psychotic. We're talking about 400 years here. An alien that shows emotional responses. I think we need to address him, before he reacts further.
I'm in psychology. Was. Still am really, just been a while. I treat aircrash survivors.
Oh, so you're that Dr. Johnson.
You've heard of me?
Well, everybody's been talking about that report you wrote.
What report?
Huh?
What report?
You mean you don't know?
Know what?
Must be another Johnson then. Been flying so many scientists out here  can't keep everyone straight.
Who's everyone?
Physicists, mathematicians, geologists, you name it.
Geologists? At a plane crash?
Strange, isn't it? In the middle of the ocean no less.
What the hell would a geologist be doing at a plane crash?
Any other bags, Dr. Johnson?
Just that. Careful, it's heavy.
No other equipment? Scientific instruments?
No, they didn't say 
This way, sir.
Captain Barnes wants to see you right away, sir.
Captain who?
Barnes. He's very eager to meet you. Been calling us every half hour to see if you're arrived.
Really?
By the way sir, I've read your report. I think it's brilliant.
What report?
You mean they haven't told you yet?
Told me what?
Norman Johnson.
Does this mean what I think it means?
It's over, sir, The storm has cleared.
The ships?
They're topside. We're ready to take you home, sir.
How are the others?
The others, sir?
Beth and Harry?
They're in the sub, sir. Waiting.
That whole time  I couldn't stop thinking of what Harry was saying earlier...
What was that, sir?
About the time paradox. How we were all going to die  that there was no way we would make it out of here alive 
What'd you say to him?
To who? Arthur? Nothing. Nothing that Norman doesn't already know.
What does Norman already know?
Norman thinks we shouldn't be going down. Thinks it's a mistake.
She told me what you said, Norman.
What is it, Harry?
Just one of Norman's many secrets.
It's just like swimming, Norman... You know how to swim, don't you?
You're not afraid of the water, are you, Norman?
Easy Ted, we're not mining gold.
Gimme some room here, will you? Back off. Gimme some space.
Alot like. You know, I noticed it before, but I didn't...
Shutup, Ted. You didn't notice shit. Keep hammering.
English?
That's right.
You don't think it does? I think it's rather obvious.
Is it some sort of joke? Like one of those hoaxes?
A spacecraft half a mile long  with 500 tonnes of coral on top of it? Someone went to a lot of trouble. Try again.
But it's impossible.
Is it?
Why would this ship carry instructions in English?
Think about it.
Unless, this alien spacecraft was  you know  somehow presenting itself to Americans in a way that would make us feel comfortable.
All the facts you need are right in front of you.
Gimme a minute here... I think I've got it.
Do you?
If it is an alien spacecraft 
Save your breath. It's not an alien spacecraft.
An American spacecraft? Half a mile long? And buried 400 years? Yeah, good theory, Harry.
It's been obvious from the start, hasn't it, Captain? That's why all the secrecy, why no one was told about it?
We take a weeny little wedge, bang on it a couple of times, and bust off a chunk of the metal. Yet any spacecraft  even at a low velocity, say 200 miles an hour  crashes into the water  it's gonna be like hitting concrete, it would crumple like paper. But there isn't a dent to be seen anywhere. Not even a scratch.
Meaning?
Meaning it didn't land in the water.
Please. It must have flown here 
It didn't fly here. It <u>arrived</u> here.
Arrived? From where?
Not where. When. 400 years ago. From our future.
Looks like a design, some writing, maybe. Maybe it was sent to meet the spacecraft with a message.
Look closely. That isn't writing. Those are grooves.
Hey, go easy on the salt, will ya? We're not a bunch of icy streets here.
Salt's good for you, Ted. Helps you from getting impotent.
Impotent? I'm not impotent.
Well, if it's a discharge 
It's not a discharge. Right, Edmunds? You said before, right? So it's gotta be a message.
If it is a message, it's probably a substitution code. I'll work on it.
Yeah, I'll work on it, too.
... I asked myself, why would the sphere be using a code? If you're trying to communicate, why use a code?
See? No code. What'd I say?
Codes are for <u>hiding</u> information. So it's making a mistake. It's making a code without intending to. I figured it's probably substituting numbers for letters... Then I began to wonder what an alien intelligence would make of our keyboard. And since we're getting spirals, I imagined the keyboard as a spiral. So I translated it...
What'd you say?
"We are friends".
Good idea, Ted.
Thank you.
Don't gimme that psychology bullshit, Norman. Psychology isn't a science, it's superstition. It's a bunch of soft, subjective theories without any hard data to back it up. With an intellect like this, emotions don't mean shit.
It's like showing Leonardo da Vinci a laptop computer. He'd run screaming "witchcraft". And you couldn't explain it to him, either. Modems, microchips, particle physics.
How are you feeling, Norman?
What?
You holding up alright?
Fine. I'm fine.
Don't be defensive.
I'm not being defensive.
You sound defensive.
I'm fine.
Go ahead. Ladies first.
No, why don't 
C'mon.
Wait a second, I 
C'mon, Norman.
Look, would you 
Nice work, Norman.
Whatever I can do to help.
Our answer.
To what?
Time travel. A black hole.
This answers one of our questions.
Which one? Let me get the list out.
This spacecraft was designed to pick things up. They see things they want  these claws go out and bring it in. They come across this. This... <u>sphere</u>. Find it interesting, curious. They draw it inside to take back home.
But on the way home, they miss their turn, go too far, into the past.
Our present.
I mentioned it in my report. Didn't you read the report?
Everything ever written about extra terrestial life imagines that life is essentially human. If it doesn't look human, it's a reptile or a big insect or something, having human values, human understanding.
And we're just talking about three dimensional creatures. What if it's five or six or sevendimensional? So dimensional that we couldn't even see it to kill it.
Good point. I don't know what you're talking about, but good point.
Don't be so optomistic, Harry.
I'm completely serious. There is something very important missing from that spacecraft. You know what that is?
Not a clue.
A sign that the builders knew time travel through a black hole was possible.
I don't follow you.
On that flight recorder, they called the black hole an "Unknown Entry Event." They didn't know what a black hole was. Fifty years from now, men are going to build that ship in a very tentative, experimental way, with no knowledge that time travel through a black hole is possible.
So what?
So, <u>we know</u>. We know it went through a black hole. We saw it. Norman  when we'd get to the surface, we'd tell someone about the black hole, wouldn't we? It'd go in some report like some big discovery. So in fifty years when they build that ship, they'd make precautions for a black hole. <u>But they didn't</u>. The called it an Unknown Entry Event.
Meaning we're never gonna get the chance to tell anyone.
Meaning we're never gonna get to the surface alive... to tell anyone.
I can't believe that, Harry.
Gimme another explanation.
I can't. If I had a minute to think, maybe, but I know you're wrong.
Am I?
Look  we're under a lot of pressure, we're tired, you're not thinking straight.
You mean, you think I'm cracking?
No. I didn't say that.
Then what, Norman?
It's what's in that sphere, isn't it, Harry? Whatever you think is in that thing  you think it's going to kill you.
Curious, isn't it? What's inside? Before I die, I'd sure like to open it and see.
What is that? That noise?
What noise?
It's like...
Harry, can you tell me about the sphere?
What are you still doing here?
You remember opening the door?
You were all supposed to leave. You weren't supposed to stay down here.
Tell me about the door. Do you remember how you opened the door to the sphere?... Harry?
You don't understand about the sphere.
Then explain it to me.
Norman?
What is it, Harry?
What happens on page 87? Have you ever read page 87?
Page 87 of what, Harry?
I could never read that far. I never wanted to.
That far in what, Harry?
These aren't half bad, Fletcher. You might have a second career coming.
What are they?
Getting anywhere with those?
There's some sort of pattern here. It'll take a minute.
Have you looked outside? Jellyfish. Everywhere. I hate jellyfish. Harry, what happened in the cafeteria?
Don't do this. Don't psychoanalyze me. I hate squid. Period. Just like you hate jellyfish.
You said something to me, before  about how we were all going to die.
Did I?
You don't remember that?
I don't remember much. It's like my memory is on the tip of my tongue  but I can't taste any of it. Funny, my senses are much keener though. Purer. Hearing, seeing, smelling. Like, I can smell your sheets, Norman. You tried to wash it out earlier, But I can still smell the urine. Don't worry, I'm not going to tell the others. It's normal, really, isn't it? In a crisis. The stress. The panic.
... you there? Norman?
Harry?
Norman, where are you?
I can't breathe... Am I... clear?
You're clear. You see the airlock?
Thank you. My suit  Beth said she fixed it 
What happened to her?
What do you mean? She's not here?
When I woke up, nobody was here.
She was supposed to be watching the sensor for me.
Her suit's gone.
Beth left?
I thought she was with you.
She's cracking, Norman.
You didn't say that about the food?
I was just in the cafeteria, there's plenty of food in there. Take a look for yourself.
But why would she  ?
She's lying, Norman. Just like she lied about fixing your suit.
Wisconsin's your answer.
Wisconsin?
Navy transmission. They're sent from Wisconsin.
How do we decode it?
Don't have to. Watch. It'll do it for you.
We just figured, you know, the three of us  we need to... work together through this.
The three of us.
That's right.
Is that why the two of you went through my dufflebag?
What is it?
You know what it is, Harry.
It's the squid! Stop it!
Stop what? What are you  ?
Did I kill her?
I don't think so.
I could hit her a little harder. More toward the cranium.
Fine.
Help me lift her.
We're never gonna make it.
Shut up and open the door.
How much time you figure to get to the surface?
Two and a half minutes. Once we're in the sub.
How far away's the sub?
I can't reach her.
Hold on.
Push her, c'mon.
I'm trying. Shit. Here  catch her.
Missed.
Are you trying, damn it? Just 
Hold on.
Hurry, Norman. Four minutes.
I heard! I heard!
Three fiftysix, three fiftyfive, three 
Shut up and catch.
C'mon, Norman!
I'm trying to keep balance with 
Gimme a second 
Just pull her  down like inside  Harry, work with me here!
Her legs are in the way.
You got her?
Get her out of the seat, I need room to sit. Harry?
I'm trying. There.
You know how to work this thing?
No idea.
Well, press something!
Wait!
Less than a minute, we're never gonna make it.
Nine hundred feet to surface.
It's not fast enough, Norman. There's a helluva lot of explosive down there.
How's that working out, by the way?
Good. Thank you. Now that I have it on. Why are you laughing? You don't even know what that means.
No. I don't. But I always said to myself, when I die, I want to die laughing.
There is one possibility.
We all kill ourselves? Bad joke. Sorry, Beth.
The power allows us to manifest our fears, right? What if we feared the power to go away?
You mean forget?
It would erase all our knowledge of it. All of our power.
When did it come across?
Minutes ago. Harry's trying to decode it in his room now.
Where's it coming from?
No idea. We have no surface support. It transmitted too fast to be coming from underwater.
Is it coming from our own computer?
Harry thinks it's some sort of discharge from our own system, but I've seen it discharge before  and it didn't look anything like this.
Pry the thing open? What are we  neanderthals?
All that banging and pounding. I don't know. We should think about making a good first impression.
For who? The fish?
For whoever's in that thing.
It's empty. Why would someone build a ship like this?
You'd have to ask them.
Then what is it?
It's an American spacecraft.
What are you looking for?
A light switch. A button opened that door  the craft runs on some sort of power.
Take politics, our views on abortion, the death penalty...
Cannibalism, to be extreme. And now we're talking about a new life form. Their values and ethics may be incomprehensible.
When he woke up, he said we were out of food. He told me to get some from the ship.
I never said that.
Yes you did. Norman, I wouldn't leave you out there. You know that.
We never even had a conversation, Norman.
Harry? That's bullshit. We stood right there 
Jerry. Right. I said Jerry, didn't I?
That's a hell of a mistake to make, Beth.
I'm sorry. Slip of the tongue.
Yeah, I don't know how you could make that confusion.
Just in time, too.
In time for what?
What?
Just in time for what?
Our habitat, I mean. This place can't handle another attack.
Another attack?
Why are you looking at me like that?
Like what? I'm not 
You're staring at me.
No I'm not. I'm not star
Yes you are...
They're going to want answers and they're going to keep asking until they get them.
We can refuse to talk.
Won't make any difference. The tapes document everything.
Pussy.
What's that  mistake number two, Norman?
No. I don't think so.
Well, think. Because there's footprints here that aren't mine.
Well, they're not mine.
I don't get it.
It doesn't make any sense.
Well, what's your theory?
I'm a woman. I don't theorize. I only deal with facts.
Norman? Where's Norman?
By the bunks.
He doesn't wait for an answer.
Who says it's a he?
Beth, look, can I trust you with a little secret?
I love secrets.
That ULF report everybody's patting me on the back about?
I've read it twice, Norman. It's brilliant.
It's bullshit. The report's a joke.
That's quite a secret.
I spent a week reading Sagan and watching reruns of the Twilight Zone. Seriously. I was just trying to pay the mortgage on my house  I had no idea 
Do yourself a favor, Norman. Are you listening? Don't tell anyone what you just told me.
C'mon, Beth  that report's like the blind leading the blind.
Because when we get down there 
Wait  down where?
To the spacecraft. To investigate.
Underwater?
What do you expect? For them to bring it up here?
We can't go down there. We're not prepared. That deep? That takes years of training, Beth. We're just scientists. Lab scietists. We wear ties and lab coats to work  not oxygen tanks.
Well, you must have realized the chances an encounter like this would happen here. In the ocean. 70 percent of the earth's surface is water, Norman. That's first grade geography.
It never occurred to me.
Well, let's pray that's the only mistake you made. Have you said anything to Barnes about this?
The timing has never seemed quite right.
Just keep your mouth shut, alright? This could mean everything to our careers, you know that? Don't jeopardize this.
What  are you threatening me?
Isn't there a psychological term for that, Dr. Johnson?
Yeah. Drowning.
You're next, Norman.
No. Go ahead. Really. Ladies first.
Such a gentlemen when you're scared shitless.
400 years ago? I'm sure Christopher Columbus would've loved these accomodations.
Good theory, Ted.
Norman!
Get this thing off me.
It could breathe in air and exhale cyanide gas.
Disrupt our brain waves, interfere with our ability to think.
Where'd this come from?
The library.
We have a library?
A bad one. It was the only book in there. Norman, come here, look at this.
No, thank you. I hate jellyfish.
... when I was six, my younger brother and I  we went swimming in the Pacific. At my mother's beach house. We both felt stinging, and when we came out of the water, he was wearing jellyfish head to toe. Killed him.
My gosh, Norman.
Yeah, it was awful.
What about you? What happened to you?
Me? Well, I was wrapped in seaweed. It itched for a while, but I survived. Beth, do you find it... curious that we're seeing all this life down here. Nothing, and then these enormous flocks of squid. Then jellyfish?
Normally, I'd say no. Everything's quiet now  no ships, no divers, no electricity. Makes sense. But what's curious is  these aren't normal jellyfish.
What do you mean  not normal?
They have six tentacles. A new species. And the squid too. They had no stomach.
Wait a minute.
What?
You knew about the squid not being normal. Before Fletcher went out there?
Yeah, why?
And you didn't tell anyone?
What? Why...
Beth 
I mean, I'm not... I wasn't absolutely sure if... they 
They are or they aren't. Which is it?
What?... Wait. Don't... why are you 
Beth.
Nobody said... Norman... What? Why are you looking at me like that?
Beth 
I didn't do anything wrong. I didn't mean...
Beth.
I can't feel her bones. She's like a sponge.
She was crushed. Feel her skin  it's like sandpaper.
What could have done this?
Norman.
What are they?
Eggs.
... He lied to us. He left us down here.
C'mon, Beth. Don't make this personal. He told me himself they were taking us back.
Yeah, he <u>told</u> you. Think. What was Barnes doing before they cut that cable loose? He was on the phone. Except that cable is a thousand feet long, Norman. They would've broken off communication with us four, five minutes before they cleared out.
So what?
So who was Barnes talking to at the last minute? Nobody.
You're jumping to conclusions, Beth. Don't get worked up 
Fuck you, Norman! It's right here...
"Although advised of risks, all personnel elect to remain down for duration of storm to continue investigation of alien sphere and associated spacecraft. Signed, Barnes, USN."
Where did you get this?
In Edmunds' things.
You went through Edmunds' things?
He's not just a Navy captain  he works for the fucking Pentagon.
Calm down, Beth. Alright?
Don't tell me to calm down!
It's done, alright? It's over! And there's not a damn thing we can do about it now, okay?
You said something to him, didn't you?
What?
You told him about me?
Beth 
You did, didn't you?
Don't do this.
You bastard.
Beth, I didn't. Hold it together. Alright?
Yeah, okay. Sure, Norman.
Beth 
No, I should stay calm. Like you say. Right, Norman? Stay calm.
Where are you going in such a hurry?
I have to reset the sub.
Forget the sub.
Don't bother me, Norman.
It's not worth the risk.
It's also our only way out of here! It holds three people. And there's only three of us left now.
You, me and Harry?
You, me and Harry. He's asleep.
Wake him, then. Let's go. Get outta 
We can't. The storm. The waves would toss us around worse than we got down here. And we have four days of decompression when we get up top.
Four days?
Get the helium out of our bloodstream. We go to the surface now, we'd pop like a soda bottle.
Maybe you should go. To the sub.
Why should I go?
You should know how it works. Just in case.
In case you die, too?
I don't trust Harry to do it.
I would. But my suit 
I fixed your suit.
You fixed my suit?
You don't trust me?
But I don't know how 
You press a button, Norman. It's not brain surgery. Here, go ahead. You only have 15 minutes to reset it. Go on, Norman...
The sub's a 100 feet in front of you. You see it?
I can't see anything. How does it look? Still clear?
Still clear.
What's the matter?
You fixed this suit? Beth?
Yes, Norman. I did. You're just nervous.
My air isn't... I'm coming back.
You can't. Counter's at 10 minutes. You don't have time.
Still clear?
Still clear.
... what do you mean? I'm in the ship.
What are you doing in the ship? Beth?
Getting food. We were out of food. what's wrong? You sound mad.
Yeah, well, I get that way when I'm facing death and someone deserts me.
Deserts you? Harry said he'd take over for me.
He what?
You get it straightened out?
I think so, Beth. Yes.
What's Harry doing with your suit in there?
Fixing it.
Fixing it? But I fixed  Where'd you get all that?
The refridgerator.
The refridgerator.
It's a pretty common place to look for food when you don't think you have any.
That wasn't in there before.
We must've had it delivered then.
Wait a second 
1800Deepsea delivery. I hear they're good.
None of this was here before.
Did you look? It was on the top shelf.
No, it wasn't. I swear none of this was here. None of it. You think he hid it? Earlier. He must've hid it.
You think?
You don't believe me.
All I know is I opened that refridgerator 
Damn it, Norman. I swear. I had a whole conversation with the man when he woke up.
This being after you so carefully fixed my suit.
You think it's me? You think I'm saying there was a conversation when there wasn't?
I don't know, Beth. I wasn't there.
Damn it, Norman! He's lying. Don't you get it? There is something seriously fucked up going on here  and he's causing it. Why can't you believe me?
Page 87.
What?
Page 87. "I could never read that far."
"Our fisherman frequently see some that are more than four feet long. Some skeletons of squids...
Squids?
"... according to calculations of some naturalists, one of these animals, only six feet long, would have tentacles 27 feet long. That would make a formidable monster."
After the attack, a Navy guy woke me up  I don't know  I thought he was an illusion. But I checked the tape, and Jerry said he manifested him.
Manifested?
Created. Brought to life. I don't know. But at the end, Jerry said, "Stop calling me Jerry". And 
He translated it wrong.
What?
Remember when we first spoke to Jerry, Barnes kept asking for Jerry's real name? But Harry never would? He didn't because he was afraid the screen would say "Harry", instead of Jerry. We weren't talking to an alien intelligence when we talked to Jerry, we were talking to Harry... or a part of Harry.
What do you mean, a part of Harry?
When did the messages start? The animals outside start showing up? After Harry came out of the sphere.
You think, in the sphere 
He acquired some sort of power. A power to manifest things.
But how?
I don't know.
How can the sphere do that?
I don't know, Beth. I'm not the fucking alien that built the thing. But it can. When Harry came out of the sphere, he mumbled something about page 87. How he would never read that far  he was too scared to. Then you found the book, remember in your lab. Then in the cafeteria  and page 87 talks about a giant squid...
Which I told Barnes was attacking 
It's his fear. The squid. He's manifesting his fears. Making them real.
But why is he doing it?
He must not realize he is. Like the Navy crewman  Harry was sleeping then. He must've manifested his dream.
His dream? You can't control your dreams. And you can't control your fears, can you?
No. I mean, we've always believed we can think anything we want without consequences. You ever read the Bible? It talks about our sinful nature, you know? I mean, we can think, and believe, and desire whatever we want, but there's a part of us  a shadow side, as Jung called it  that can't be controlled. It's evil. It's inside us. It's what we are.
And that's the part of Harry that's being manifested.
Must be. And if it is  it's a part of him not even he can control.
Looks like some sort of code.
Why would Harry go back to using a code?
Diphenyl parlene.
Something for burns.
Ephedrine hydrochloride.
It's for motion sickness.
Valdomet.
Ulcers.
Sintag.
A synthetic opium analogue.
Does it cause drowsiness? That's all we need. To get him unconscious  put him under.
Nothing about drowsiness.
Tarazine?
Tranquilizer. Causes drowsiness.
Bingo.
"... and may also cause bizarre halucinations".
Riordan?
Antihistamine. For bites.
Damn it! Chloramphenicol?
Antibiotic.
Parasolutrine?
How do you spell it?
Paraso...
It's a soporific.
What's that?
Causes sleep.
It's like a sleeping pill?
"... used as an anesthetic if given in combination with paracin trichloride... "
"20 cc's of parasolutrine in combination with 6 cc's of paracin given IV produces deep sleep suitable for emergency surgical procedures... no cardiac side effects ... REM activity is surpressed... "
How long does it last?
Three to six hours.
I'll just boost the doses.
What? Wait  isn't that dangerous?
How fast does it take effect?
Doesn't say.
What if it takes 20 minutes, Norman? What if it takes an hour? And he can fight it off? We can't afford that.
It's an idea.
Beth 
To be on the safe side. I mean 
You want to kill him?
Look, it's either him or us, Norman. Another attack, and we go down with this place.
You ever given an injection before.
Thirty years ago. In residency. I passed out. You?
Only lab rats. Here.
I'm sorry.
For what?
Not believing you.
You're not sorry. You're scared. You're a psychologist, Norman. You pride yourself on knowing when someone's lying to you, not telling you the truth. And now you're scared ... because you're not sure you can tell anymore.
What is it, Norman?
Where are you?
In the sub. Resetting the timer. Why?
The sphere looks different.
What do you mean, different?
The grooves around the door  they've shifted. And the pattern  the fluids  they look darker now.
How's Harry?
What was that? I couldn't hear you.
Your watch.
Oh yes, my watch. I almost forgot.
What's wrong, Norman?
I'm feeling better.
Are you?
It's getting cold.
You think I'd really drink that?
You don't think I put something in it, do you?
You put explosives around the habitat, I can't imagine what you'd put in a drink.
I did do that, didn't I?
How do you feel about snakes?
Snakes? What do you mean, exactly?
You know what I mean.
Am I afraid of them? Not during the day. Sea snakes are diurnal. When the sun's out, they don't bite. Fortunately for you, I had on my watch. This is quite good.
What are they doing down here? In the bathroom? Suddenly appearing.
You tell me.
Do you fear them?
Don't you?
Are you manifesting them?
If I was, then I would've had to have gone in the sphere, wouldn't I?
Did you?
What's the phrase  "keeping up with the Joneses"?
Why did you go in the sphere, Beth?
Same reason I put explosives around the habitat. For defense. For the power. To protect myself.
Against what? Harry's unconscious. He's not a threat.
No, he isn't.
He can't manifest.
No, he can't.
Then why, Beth? Why go in? Why put out explosives? Why manifest the snakes?
You think I manifested the snakes?
Someone did.
Yes, someone did. But it wasn't me, Norman. It was you. You manifested the snakes.
Beth you're losing it. C'mon.
C'mon  what?
You're lying 
Am I lying? Are you sure? Are you absolutely sure I'm lying? Then explain to me about the jellyfish. Earlier. Why did we see jellyfish? Harry doesn't fear jellyfish. You do. They're your fear, aren't they?
But 
And the snakes? You want to know about the snakes? You saw one outside earlier, didn't you? When you thought I had deserted you  you were terrified.
That's when you went in the sphere.
One lonely, terrifying sea snake.
You manifested that, Beth.
Did I? Or was that you? When you were hiding in the bathroom  all conspiratorially like you were  you became frightened, didn't you? Terrified. Like you were with the snake earlier  and suddenly you have snakes slithering all over the floor. You did that, Norman.
You're insane.
Am I? Or am I making so much sense that you're going insane?
I never went in that sphere.
You don't remember you did. But I'm sure you remember running like some fucking hero to get Harry, don't you? You remember that.
Yes.
You remember before you picked him up  when you looked up at the sphere, you remember that  when the sphere opened? That's right. But you can't remember going inside, can you? No, of course not. Harry couldn't either, could he? "Like everything's on the tip of my tongue", he said.
That's bullshit.
Is it?
Beth, the message said Harry. "My name is Harry". My name isn't Harry.
No, it isn't. Your name is Norman. But your younger brother  what was his name? The one who was stung when you were younger. The one that died. The one you couldn't save. What was his name? "Mommy, we're going out to the ocean  to go swimming." "But I don't want to go swimming, Norman. I'm scared." "C'mon, <u>Harry</u>, it'll be fine, it'll be fun." You heartless fuck. That's why you're so scared of the water, isn't it?
Shut up, Beth 
When you were in that sub  and that squid was attacking you  are you sure it was the squid that was attacking? Do you know? "I can't get Beth on the radio. I'm in this tiny sub on the bottom of the fucking ocean. All alone. Surrounded by all this water." Was it really the squid that was attacking you, Norman  or was it something else  one of your fears? You never really saw what it was, did you?
I'm not scaring you, am I Norman? I hope I'm not frightening you. The last thing I want to do is frighten you. You feel okay, don't you?
It's not me, Beth. I swear. It can't be.
"It's not me, Beth. It's not me. It can't be. I'm not doing anything." Just like Harry said before I stabbed him with the needle.
Don't, Beth.
But I have to, Norman.
I promise 
Promise what, Norman? Tell me!
Beth 
You think I'd belive you? Believe anything you might say now? After you lied to me about telling Barnes about my past. About my problems. My problems. Not yours. Not his. Mine.
Don't, Beth. Please.
It's either this... or I kill you.
It's your choice. Because it's not safe for you to be awake. To be walking around. To be thinking about things.
It's not safe for you to be either.
You think I care? You think I care if I die? Would I put explosives around the habitat  set on vibration sensors  that can trigger automatically, if I cared about myself? Would I? I've tried twice before, Norman, why wouldn't I try a third time? I'm not thinking about myself  No, Norman, I'm thinking about you. Your safety. Protecting you from your own self.
This is what I'm talking about, Norman. Don't you see? It's in you. This vindictiveness. This rage.
Get away from the door, Beth.
Of course you're going to deny it. You want to blame someone else. You want to blame Beth. Because you hate Beth.
Don't fuck with me, Beth.
I'm not fucking with you, Norman. You've fucked yourself.
Beth!
You're frightened, aren't you, Norman?
Where is it coming from, Beth?
Don't you know?
Beth, stop it!
Stop what? Don't blame me. It's not me.
Then where's it coming from?
From you, Norman. From your mind. You're doing it.
Stop it!
It's you, Norman. Your fear of drowning. You have to face it.
Beth?
Leave me alone, Norman.
You can't stop it, Norman. You can't fight me.
I know. You're too strong, Beth.
Oh please, don't shrink me, Norman. Not now.
I 
Don't tell me about me. I already know too much.
Beth  gimme the gun.
Oh, sure. Here. Anything else, Beth can get you? Some more chicken, perhaps. Let Beth check the fridge.
C'mon 
Top shelf, is it?
Let's get out of here, Beth. Let's go home.
What is that? What are you doing?
What?
You hear that?
Hear what?
Get away from me!
Beth 
Get away 
Would it work?
Yes. And I think we already know it will.
How's that?
Down below, Harry said we would all have to die. Since there was no evidence on that spacecraft that anybody knew time travel through a black hole was possible  and we all knew  then we would all have to die before we could tell anyone. Death was the only logical explanation. But sitting here, we still know. So how is that possible? Unless we make ourselves forget.
A half a mile long?
The wing dimension alone is larger that any aircraft we've seen.
Captain, you know, I really appreciate you hauling us a thousand feet below sea level so we can watch this historical event on television.
Nobody goes inside, until we know <u>what's</u> inside.
I'd also like it noted 
Duly noted, Ted. Edmunds, try using suction.
What <u>about</u> a crowbar?
What if we go out there, you know  wedge a crowbar in the door and pry the thing open.
Ted, get her away from the door.
What are you going to do  shoot her?
Look at this.
What is it?
Some sort of lead or something.
Radiation shield, you think?
A foot and a half thick? That'd withstand a helluva lot of radiation.
What's wrong?
What do you make of this?
We had considered it.
Considered what? That it's American? How would you think it's American?
Time travel. I always thought it was one of those myths... like Santa's reindeer.
What would we be working on in the future that would make us want to come back?
Maybe we didn't want to come back.
But what does it do? This... sphere.
Maybe it's a message of some sort, you know? See this red here.
Can I stay, sir? I'm willing to risk it. I am. After what we just witnessed.
What? No, I know they're civilians...
Did you hear me, sir, because 
Ted, shut up. Are you packed? Ready to go? I want everyone packed. Now!
How can he be missing?
Sir, about leaving 
We're on the bottom of the fucking ocean  he can't just walk outside!
They switched us over.
To what?
Internal power.
She says jellyfish are a delicacy. You know, I never knew that.
Get out of there. I don't want anyone going anywhere outside, understood?
From the sphere?
What's inside the sphere.
I want a name. A real name. This thing's full name, rank and serial number.
Captain, I personally feel we should ask much more substantive questions 
I am not gonna explain in some damn report that one person died in a deepsat expedition so we could meet an alien named Jerry.
It's not talking, it's mimicking.
Give him a chance. He's speaking our language, not the other way around.
Edmunds?
Don't make stuff up, these emotional theories, just so you can feel important here.
What is that?
The sensors are picking up something outside.
What?
It won't register. It's too big to image.
Too big?
Well, until we know exactly what it is, nobody goes outside, understood?
What was Edmunds doing outside?
Resetting the sub.
What sub?
In the dome hanger. All our tapes are transferred to the sub. It's on a 12 hour timer. If someone doesn't reset the "delay" button, the sub ascends to the surface with the tapes.
How much damage?
To the craft? None. Not a scratch.
Right. So you're saying it survived a high speed impact with water without a scratch?
I'm not saying anything, Harry, I'm just stating the facts. The outer metal is made of a titanium alloy, built into an epoxy resin honeycomb. The necessary technology to bond this type of metal has never been invented.
It's chipped.
Chipped? The door? How can it be chipped?
I don't know how it can be chipped, but it's chipped.
I thought you said there wasn't any damage done in the crash?
I did.
Then how can it be chipped?
Ted? Captain?
Yes, Harry.
We know how this craft got here. Where it's been.
So do we. And it seems to have picked up something on it's travels.
No. They don't represent a message. They aren't decorative at all. They have another purpose entirely.
What?
To conceal a small break in the surface of the sphere.
A break for what?
So how do we get it open?
Ted seems to have some ideas.
Man is man, all he knows is man, and all he can think of is what he knows. The anthropomorphic problem. Good, Norman.
The what?
So? What's the problem?
It's nonsense. There's enough difference between our own species to prove that.
Or it could contain some great benefit to us, some astonishing new idea or technology to help mankind.
It could. But the odds of it being any use to us are against it.
You don't know that.
Let's say whoever made this thing is a thousand years ahead of us, just like we are to, say, medieval Europe. Suppose you went back to medieval Europe with a TV set. There wouldn't be any place to plug it in.
Just tell me worst case. Worst case of what we might find?
Gimme a report, I want 
Ladies and Gentlemen...
Who is that? Where's that coming from?
Please watch your closest monitor...
It's a single sequence repeated over and over.
We're all very proud of you, Harry, but what the hell is it?
... spiralling out of the center, you see: "G" is one, "B" is two, "H" is three, and so on... when I got the message.
What's the message?
I have to tell you. It's strange.
How do you mean, strange?
Ignorant. The thing's ignorant.
It's not ignorant.
Are you enjoying yourself, Harry, because I don't know what the hell you're doing.
He understands me fine.
Not now, Beth. Please. I want to know who we're talking to before we start talking. Where's Edmunds?
She's not gonna know, sir.
What?
He's saying, "Take me to your leader." He wants to know who's in charge.
I'm in charge.
With an "o". Harold with an "o".
What  you want me to retype it?
Edmunds? Get in here. I want to know exactly how this is being transmitted.
She's not gonna know.
She wired this system.
If the technology of that sphere is advanced enough  the way it functions is gonna appear to us like magic.
Can you open that panel?
Working on it now, sir.
It's not sucking, sir.
Thank you, I can see that. Try something else.
We don't have anything else to try, Sir.
Well, shit  find something, do something... make something up 
What caused it?
Nothing. I don't know. Everything was normal. No changes at all.
Get him out of there. I thought I told you people 
Harry? Can you copy?
Subs are still at surface, sir.
Send them, damn it! I know, but I'm not gonna be held responsible 
I'm getting no sub reading, sir.
They're coming.
Any sign of Harry?
Nothing, sir.
Fuck him. What? Hello?
Nothing, sir.
What the hell is going on here?
Yes, sir.
Well, where the fuck is he?
In the ship, sir.
Sir, if the subs haven't left by now...
They've left, keep watching!
Sir! Sir, the door  it's opening.
Norman, get out of there now! Norman?
If the subs aren't here yet, sir 
Edmunds, get in here. I need you for this.
In a minute, sir.
Thank you, Colonel.
Captain.
Captain. Right, forgive me.
Well, thanks for the opportuninty here  my wife appreciates it.
Don't thank me, Dr. Johnson. You weren't my choice. The Pentagon made me take you.
The Pentagon? I didn't know I had friends in Washington.
Come with me. The team's already waiting.
What team?
What have you been told so far?
The usual. Plane crash. Survivers unknown. Routine stuff really.
Anything else?
Nothing else.
You talk to any reporters? Any press?
Press? No, I haven't.
Good. Security's been our biggest worry. Now that you're here we can shut this thing down tight.
From what? What's with all the security?
Well, we don't have all the facts yet.
We're moving fast considering the storm.
Storm? What storm?
A cyclone's on it's way in. I thought they would have told you on the phone.
They didn't tell me anything.
How deep is he?
A thousand feet.
A thousand? An airplane crashes into a thousand feet of water  I don't want to sound pessimistic here, but I assume there are no survivors.
Survivors? No, I wouldn't think so.
Then why am I here?
What?
What do you need me for?
What is it? A military spacecraft? Like a shuttle or satellite?
Something like that. That doesn't surprise you?
Not really, no. Something of the military crashes in the ocean  it explains why there was nothing on the news, why you've kept everything a secret... When did it crash?
As best we can estimate, it crashed four hundred years ago.
See this? Coral. Geologists measured the coral growth on top of the craft to be over five meters thick.
Geologists?
Coral grows at a rate of two and a half centimeters a year 
 Wait a second 
 dating the crash at least that old.
Hold on 
Maybe older 
 there's got to be some mistake here  a four hundred year old military spacecraft? There's no such thing... our space program isn't even forty years old.
Extraordinary, isn't it?
It's impossible.
I'm afraid it is Dr. Johnson... because it's sitting on the bottom of our ocean floor.
Off the record, I don't mind telling you, this thing scares the shit out of me.
It doesn't make any sense.
We think it might. That's why we brought you here. We've assembled your team  they're waiting for us now.
What team?
The one you recommended. In the ULF report you wrote for the Bush administration.
ULF report? Nobody's mentioned that in years. You mean someone actually read it?
Your report's become our bible down here, Dr. Johnson. We've been carrying out each of your recommendations  one by one  to the smallest detail.
But sir, I don't understand. This report  these recommendations... they're for an encounter with extra terrestrial life.
They pressurize us with helium.
What's wrong with oxygen?
It's a corrosive gas. On earth, it makes a halfeaten apple turn brown and puts the ugly, iron rust on an Oldsmobile. At a pressure this low, oxygen becomes toxic. Breathe it down here, and it'll do to your dick what it does to the Oldsmobile.
What is it, Norman?
Take a look.
Picked up something? What is it?
I don't know. But it's something alien.
Maybe we shouldn't.
What?
If it is alien, maybe we shouldn't try to open it at all.
Like "Thou shall not kill"?
Or maybe, it can't <u>be</u> killed.
You mean, what's in that thing is immortal?
I don't know. That's the point.
Everything can be killed.
Don't get hysterical, Norman.
I'm telling you, Harry's lost it. He's saying there's a deathwish out for each of us.
Look, the ships are clearing out. They're taking us topside in a matter of minutes. Someone can check him out there, if it's that imprtant.
All I'm saying is, someone should keep an eye on him.
Just worry about yourself.
Harry's missing.
What do you mean, he's missing?
He's missing. He's gone. He left.
He's here somewhere. Find him. The sub's on it's way. Go! C'mon!
You can't just leave Harry down here, sir.
I told you people, nobody goes anywhere unless I say.
But sir 
No "buts". If he wants to be left, we'll leave him. Hello? Yes, the subs  I want a report... Hello... Yes, a report. Gimme... shit.
I'm not paranoid. I know Beth. She can be drastic.
How drastic?
You don't want to know.
I think I do.
A while back, Beth and I  we worked at the same university. She was assisting a chemist there  I forget his name  doing research, experiments. She was also living with him. Yeah, I know. And when she finished her work, he kicked her out, broke off the relationship, and published five papers  all her work  without any thank you or acknowledgement.
She should've known better.
She put a razor to her wrists a day later.
When was this?
'81, I think. She tried again five years ago. I thought you should know.
So you knew this when you wrote your report?
At the time, I don't know, I thought putting her on the list  it might help her career  catch her a break.
You knowingly recommended a woman with suicidal tendencies for a government operation 
Wait a second 
 and then brought her down here 
 I didn't know it would come to this 
 without a cautionary word to anyone. You know, Ted said something to me earlier. I think he's right. He said, "When you got a guy who  if he wasn't here  he'd be standing in the unemployment line, you gotta question if you got the right guy."
He translated it wrong. "My name is Jerry"? It's like "See Spot run."
The message doesn't show a lack of intelligence. It's smart. It's approaching us in a simple way. Like you would a dog. Holding out your hand, letting it sniff, get used to you.
What am I  a dog, now?
Great, okay. Ask him about his weapons.
That's smart. Let's talk about guns and violence.
You don't think weapons are important?
I think we should be careful. Consider his emotional response.
Edmunds?
Because if Jerry is powerful and also emotional...
Damn it, Edmunds?
... it raises a very serious question: <u>What happens if Jerry</u> <u>gets mad</u>?
Edmunds? Can you copy?
What for?
If something should happen to us, the Navy will at least have partial records of what happened.
At least our obituaries will be accurate. That's reassuring.
I don't want you talking to Jerry.
But sir, I think it's imperative. I think the messages, the animals we've seen, what killed Edmunds, the reading you got earlier  I think they're all related.
You think he killed Edmunds?
Yes, I do. Whatever's out there, I think is his response to us refusing to talk to him earlier.
Bullshit. What's out there isn't alien. It's an animal.
Maybe so. But I think we need to ask Jerry about it.
No. I think we should shut down the communication lines inside the habitat. He might be listening now.
Going active.
Jerry?
What the hell? It shut us down.
Jerry? Please. Stop this.
Ted, go into the control room. Listen for my instructions.
Yes, sir. I'm here.
You see the lever on the green box? Upper right hand corner?
I see it.
Pull it.
How big is this spacecraft?
Of what we're able to measure, roughly twentysix hundred feet.
In basic English, what does all this mean?
Basic English? There's no way this spacecraft was constructed on our planet.
There's heat coming the door.
Back away then.
Wait a minute 
I said back away.
Would you wait a minute?
Hold on 
What is it?
Any of you get ahead of me  walk this far up?
Alright, Beth, do that thing you did before.
How about I just press the button?
Not everything. Even on earth. Take ... yeasts.
Yeasts? Thank you, Beth, but I don't think we're gonna open it up and find a loaf of bread.
I am not leaving without him. Do you hear me? We come down as a team, we leave as a team.
What are you  his mother? Get Norman, I want everyone ready to go. Edmunds, the subs?
Norman!
Edmunds, do you have a 20 on Norman?
The surface ships will be back. After the storm clears.
How long will that be?
They told me about sixty hours.
Two and a half days?
Back at the door  I asked you to back away.
Yeah. I heard you.
There are procedures, Beth, that I want followed. My procedures. And considering what's going on, I want you to follow them very closely.
Forgive me. I've never read the Navy manual. I wonder what it says about bathroom and shower procedures.
Nobody move.
But she's 
Nobody move!
I'm not sure. I've never seen anything like it.
You're a fucking biochemist, aren't you? Can't you tell us something.
Nice work, Captain sir.
Shut up, Beth. I don't want to hear it.
Direction's east coming!
What was that?
A squid? The size of a whale? I don't think so. Target acquired. Sixty yards.
What if it attacks?
Fifty yards and closing.
What do we use for defense?
We're a habitat. Not a castle. The only defense we have is High Voltage.
High Voltage?
It sends 200 volts throughout the cylinder surface. But we've never used it underwater before.
Forty yards.
But you've tested it?
Sure. Each time it started fires inside the habitat.
Thirty yards.
What are you saying  we can't stop what's out there?
Where is it?
Why can't I  ? What the hell is going on here?
What was that?
He's right beneath us.
Increase positive pressure!
That's our reserve air.
It's either that or we grow gills.
Don't do it, Norman!
Do you see it?
Don't pull it, Norman. It'll start a <u>fire</u> we can't stop. Norman?
Do it, Norman, it's the only choice we have. This thing is gonna crush us.
Norman, don't do it!
Don't do it!
Now!
Norman, please! Don't!
Pull it, damn it!
Fletcher? What are you doing out there?
They're like pink snow, sir. Sticky.
They're warm. I can feel the heat on my legs.
Fletcher, I want you back here.
Fletcher, get away from there...
It's burning...
Get out of there!
I can't see...
Fletcher! Now!
I can't...
Captain, open the hatch door, please ... the hatch door, Captain. Open it, please.
Calm down, Dr. Levine.
Let me out, Captain. Open the door!
Please, Dr. Levine.
... Your civil rights have been overridden!
Open it, Captain!
Dr. Levine, please! Return to your seat!
Lane's closed big fellah, league night.
I'm not here to bowl.
You drag that coconut around for your health, or do you know how to use it?
I'm looking for somebody.
Some unfinished business.
If you wanna do business in this town, there's other people around here got more weight than old Faz.
You guys got something going on downstairs?
We provide some extracurricular activities for the senior citizens in the community.
Basement bingo?
Aagh! Stop! Those are my bowling fingers!
Tell your little pal to let go.
Breeze, give him his ball back!
Very good, busyboy.
Dwarf bowling's illegal.
What are you gonna do, call the bowling police?
You should probably hit the road. Go home. This place could get hazardous for your health.
So, Buzz was stooling for you guys.
You call it stooling, we call it cooperating. Breeze looks under Theo's car.
Why is Junior's watch in that coffin? Something stinks around here.
Your time is up, busyboy.
Who identified the body?
The body was identified along proper Bowling Congress guidelines for processing a bowling related fatality.
I'm the next of kin. I should've seen him.
You faked my dad's murder. You used him! Where is he! Theo chases Sid and Breeze around their car. He catches Sid and grabs the middle fingers on his right hand. Sid howls.
Ow! Ooh! No, please! Doc said I'd be back on the planks in a week! Show him Breeze! Breeze pulls a copy of "New York Bowler" from his pocket. The headline reads "RUB OUT!:BOWLING LEGEND KACKED BY DWARFSCAM KINGPIN" with a photo of Buzz Fazeli.
What's your specialty?
Whips...orange whips.
Then I'll have the number four with one of your finest whips.
How do you want it? The eggs.
Uh...over easy.
Coming right up.
Do those two work for your dad or mine?
Mine, and they never tip.
Do you know where they're taking him?
Yeah, Babylon. Buzz runs the lanes there for my dad. Everybody who has anything to do with bowling in this town answers to my dad. Theo splits.
Here Theo, it's the Fazeli specialty; a seventen split. Theo looks down the lane and sees the two pins standing.
I'm not here to  I can't...
I came here to have a word with your dad.
What do you want with my dad?
Business.
Won't your father help you with that?
Having a legend for a dad isn't all it's cracked up to be.
Your dad's one of the only nice people in this fucking town. My Dad is slime. Kastle walks over. Theo stands up and shakes Kastle's proffered hand.
This is a vicious cycle.
I think that a motorbike is one of the last really free things that people can do.
Isn't this technically a scooter?
When I'm on my bike I feel like a wild person. Better than any sex I've ever had.
Kinda tough on the butt.
Everything has it's drawbacks.
Where did your brother escape from?
The mental hospital.
What does he do?
He follows me, he tries to have sex with me, and then they send him to the nuthut for a while and then he gets out and then he follows me, he tries to have sex with me, they send him to the nuthut for a while...
Whoa.
It's a vicious cycle.
Mind if I cut in?
No, not at all.
You and your sideburns are the talk of the party, Theo.
The ladies in Akron call them thigh ticklers.
Can I ask you something personal?
I'd rather you didn't.
Do you have a girlfriend?
Not while I'm in training.
Do you have a boyfriend?
No. Do You?
No. Not at the present.
So this brother of yours is hazardous to the health of your dates?
Nobody in this town really understands Junior. When I went to family sessions for him I realized he was the sanest one in the family. Actually, he's the only one in this whole fucking town who knows exactly who he is and what he wants.
Unfortunately what he wants is you.
So, what about you?
Do I want you?
We'll get into that later.
Theo, what would you do if you couldn't bowl?
I don't know. It's all I ever wanted to do.
I wanted to be a motocross champion. My folks didn't really care what I did. Then Junior blew a fuse and I became their last hope. Most girls get ballet stuffed down their throats, I got bowling. I never understood how anyone could take it so seriously. I hope I'm not insulting you.
No, I'm fascinated.
Why were you suspended?
I used to be kind of wild. They used to call me the bad boy of bowling.
So you're hoping Buzz can get you re instated?
Well, that was plan A.
What's plan B?
Plan B is your dad.
What do you think my dad's gonna do for you?
He said he'd sponsor me.
Ha! And what do you have to do for him?
Nothing.
Oh really? Nothing? My dad doesn't do anything unless there's something in it for him.
He asked me to keep an eye on you for a couple of days.
What? Be my body guard? Here's my body, Theo. Guard it. For my dad's sake. For your career. Sheila starts to unbutton her bowling shirt.
Sheila, please.
Come on Theo, what about plan C?
What's plan C?
Plan C... ...is me.
I don't think your new outfit suits you, Theo.
Really? I kinda like it.
Do you talk with your mom?
It's been awhile. She didn't want me looking for my dad.
My mom told me not to stay in this town.
So why do you stay?
I'm a credit card junkie. I went on a binge and my dad bailed me out. Now I'm trapped in his easy payment plan.
I bet you get to meet a lot of eligible bowlers.
Yeah, but they're all little wannabes. I'm looking for a professional man.
I may not be a pro bowler, but I'm no amateur man. Sheila moves closer to Theo.
How much would you charge me for the lips?
More than you could afford.
Come on, bargain with me.
I could let them go for ten.
You professional men drive a hard bargain. I'm afraid I only have five on me. Sheila pulls out a 5 dollar bill.
If you want a professional man, you have to be willing to pay for him.
What are you going to do about your brother?
You're here.
What about the guy he put in the body cast?
Then it's true, isn't it? About...
...lane six. Yes.
It wouldn't bother you if Buzz was in danger, would it?
Nope, I couldn't care less.
I'm sure you wouldn't care if he needed your help, right?
Why should I help that old fuck.
Yeah, what did Buzz Fazeli ever do for you?
Zip.
And besides, it's probably too late, anyhow.
Way too late. Buzz Fazeli is history. Too late for what?
Nothing.
Too late for what, Sheila?
You know how people with broken bones know when there's a storm coming?
You got any broken bones?
No, but something's gonna blow in this town. I can feel it.
Are you fucking with me Sheila? Is something gonna happen to Buzz? Sheila seems to be trying to tell Theo, but is unable.
I can't tell you, Theo.
Why not?
I saw your eyes when you hit that guy with your ball on TV. THUNDER rumbles. Theo takes Sheila by the shoulders.
Tell me, Sheila. What are you afraid of? Sheila shakes her head.
I'm afraid you'll hurt him.
It's Junior, isn't it.
I can't  I can't do it. He's my brother.
He's my father.
These open the back door. Don't let him catch you behind the machines; if he does, you're trapped. I'll meet you at the bridge. Theo takes the keys. Sheila grabs his arm.
You don't have to do this. We could just cut out of here, go to Akron, or anywhere else.
I'll be at the bridge.
You told Junior that we did it.
It?
It. Bouncybouncy. Fucked. He tried to squeeze my fucking head off. What did you say to him? When they reach each other, they stop. Sheila seems to weigh her answer.
I told him you were my boyfriend.
What the hell did you go doing that for Sheila? We haven't even gotten naked yet!
We would have sooner or later.
Oh great! He tried to kill me! You knew he would go off if he thought I fooled around with you.
Did you  kill him?
How do you get this thing down?
Tell me what happened Theo.
You wanted me to kill him, didn't you?
If he's not dead, he'll keep coming back.
He's dead Sheila.
I feel sick.
You should.
Are you sure he's dead?
I didn't stop to take his pulse.
Where are you going?
I think your brother may have already gotten to Buzz. He gets into his car.
Can I come with you?
I did your dirty work for you Sheila, now fuck off. Theo drives away leaving Sheila standing alone. She watches his car recede with a thoughtful expression, then turns on her heel.
Why did you come back?
When I'm with you Sheila, I don't even think about bowling. Theo takes Sheila in his arms and kisses her passionately. She stops him and looks around nervously.
If Junior finds us, he'll kill us both.
I killed him once, I'll just have to kill him again.
You don't get two chances with Junior.
At least I'll die smiling.
Say something, Theo. Give me something. A doll's legs catch fire. Theo stares into Sheila's eyes.
Plan C. From now on it's gonna be plan C. Both bodies throb and grind, their sandy hands sliding over each others' sweaty skin.
Theo, Buzz is dead.
I didn't come this far to bury a guy that's not my dad. He owes me.
Back to plan A. The vicious cycle all over again. Theo lets go of Sheila.
I've been trapped by Miles Kastle my whole life. She walks over to her scooter, and mounts it.
Now he's the one who's locked up and I'm the one who's free. If I gotta do this alone, I might as well start now. She revs up and peals out.
SSHHEEIILLAAA!
What makes you think you know me so well that you can give me an ultimatum? Huh?
Who said anything about an ultimatum? You want to find your father? Get a shovel and start digging. Hurry up, he's probably in Purgatory by now. Sheila makes a pathetic attempt to speed away from Theo. He moves up beside her again.
You're really pissing me off.
I'm pissing you off? I'm doing what I said I'd do. What the hell are you doing? What about your word?
My word is good, and it'll always be good. When did I ever give my word to you?
What about plan C?
Fuck plan C!
Your word is so good, you're never gonna give it to anyone.
You think I'm dumping you to get back into bowling. Well who's dumping who?
I'm not dumping you, I'm suspending you.
Sez you!
Suck my dick!
Very professional.
I am a professional man.
Lips still for sale?
You bet. For five bucks, I'll even throw in the tongue.
Can you change something this big?
Is Mr. Fazeli in please?
Who wants to know? Zeus!
I'm a bowler.
I'm sick of you people. Why don't you leave him be?
Get that outta your mouth!
They suspended me.
He's not here.
I'm sorry about Zeus, Millie.
This is a sign! Someone's coming to take Buzz away from me. I don't know if you're the guy or what, but I'm not letting it happen. I'm leaving him first.
I couldn't kill Buzz. I need his help. Theo helps Millie load suitcases into the trunk of her car.
Buzz Fazeli never helps anybody but himself.
He's my father, Millie.
He's no father to you.
Careful with that one. He won't tell me anything, but I know there's something strange going on over at the lanes. If you ask me, I'd say the old fart wants to die.
Where can I find him?
The Peter Pan.
I just hold it loosely with both hands?
That's right, sugar, find the grip that's right for you. Then grasp firmly. The camera weaves past a five foot pink whale with a gaping green mouth leading onto a minigreen.
Grasp firmly. Then what?
Line up where you want it.
Yeah.
Now swing it out a little to the right...
Like this?
No, no, that's too far. Try a more gentle stroke. It's all in the stroke. Go ahead, now, honey  stroke. As the camera comes around the side of the whale, we see an elderly man in a fire hydrant red sports coat and white slacks hunched over a diminutive fiftyish woman. His back is to the camera and he is wearing a baseball cap with a plastic halo attached to it.
Strokin'. Here goes nothin'.
Hole in one! You're the queen of stroke!
Yippy!
Hello, Mr.Kastle.
Hello, Violet. How's my favorite 'bowlerina' doing?
132, 154.
You keep that up Carmelita and one day you'll be a champion just like Mr. Skinner here. What do you think, Theo? Think Carmelita's got the stuff?
I get them while they're young. Builds loyalty.
She hit it, Mr. Kastle!
Four or five years when a girl like that's bowling on the pro tour for Team Kastle, she'll pay a handsome profit on my investment.
Dad, this is ridiculous. Just open it.
Ssssh! Now real quiet. On three. One...two...three!
I bet you didn't know that you and Junior have something in common, Theo: Junior can't bowl anymore either. Isn't that right Junior? Kastle SLAMS the ketchup bottle down on Junior's right hand. The table settings jump from the shock. Junior sits impassively, his face a blank.
See! No feeling. Tell Theo what happened to your hand, Junior.
After we eat, Dad.
He stuck it in the ball return machine when he was a kid. Crushed all the nerve endings. Junior starts stroking the ketchup bottle with his dead hand.
You're just like you mother! Always jealous!
That's why Mom ran away, because you had to control everything!
She ran away to be with that... that Motocross champion.
You're using Theo for your own deviant purposes!
Look who's talking!
Leave him alone!
Just because your mother signed part ownership of the lanes over to you, doesn't mean you have a right to tell me how to run my business! I can have my lawyers take that deed away from you like that. Sheila and Kastle sit up.
Fantastic! What talent.
You still got the touch Junior.
Don't go near the bowling alley.
Bowling "Center"!
So you're Buzz's boy. I've been expecting you. You hurt my feelings when you didn't come and see me sooner.
You know who I am?
Nobody sticks a finger into a bowling ball in this town without Miles Kastle knowing about it. You don't mind if I have a word with Theo, do you bunny? Kastle takes Theo by the elbow and pulls him away.
I heard you've been having a little trouble with the Congress. Theo pulls his eyes off Sheila. Kastle walks Theo past pairs of bowlers.
You might say I'm at the top of their shit list.
Maybe I can help you. Try a lighter ball, Penelope  you'll get hurt with that big ball, honey. I've seen tapes of you bowling on the circuit. You got Fazeli blood running through you. Your pop was a genuine talent in his day.
What's with the bad air between you two, Mr. Kastle?
It's nothing, just a slight business imbalance. How's Gloria's thumb?
That's some pinfall. Almost a 133 average. Her ball's flat, she needs to work on her spin control.
That's right, didn't you have a slight control problem in a recent tournament,champ? Now go take out your "big four", darling. Come on, we're making her nervous.
Think of this business like a big aquarium. You gotta have some sharks to eat the dirt at the bottom so the guppies can swim free at the top.
Profits down there, philanthropy up here. Besides, it beats the pants off bingo.
Nice setup.
If it springs a leak, it'll be because Buzz is making waves.
What if he wants to get out?
He's earned an early retirement. But enough about losers; Buzz Fazeli is history. Lets talk about your future. I wanna show you something.
Rac. RAC. Renovate, Automate, Computerize. That, my boy, is the future. One of the monitors shows a little girl bowling. Her ball moves so slowly it barely tips over the first pin. Kastle hits a key and the pins explode in an emphatic strike. The little girl jumps with joy.
What ever happened to just bowling?
There's a lot of competition for amusement out there. You gotta adapt to survive.
I like the sport the way it is.
A guy like you could breathe some fire into bowling. You got ambition like a...like a...blowtorch. You go for what you want and anything that gets in your way  PSSSHHT!  shish kebabs. Maybe lady fate washed you up on my doorstep for your own good. I think I could help you, Theo.
How Mr. Kastle?
You need a sponsor; I have influence. I could sponsor you.
Why would you help me?
I like you, Theo. You bowl with soul.
You already have a partner Mr. Kastle. Sheila walks over as the sleazeballs' car pulls out of the driveway.
I think Buzz is retiring soon. In fact, I think he's retiring tonight. Kastle pulls out a shiny gold credit card and holds it in front of Sheila.
Where's Junior?
He killed your stoolie embezzler father, and he's gonna kill you next! Sid and Breeze push him towards the van as the crowd's MURMUR increases. Kastle turns and yells over his shoulder.
Weird, comes into alleys and doesn't bowl.
It's not an "Alley". I hate when people call it a "Bowling Alley", it's so common! I prefer "Bowling Center".
Someone gonna get kacked, boss?
If I find out Buzz is comin' up short on dwarf bowling, it's lights out for him and pink slips for you. Sid and Breeze look sideways at each other.
Hey, enough fun and games. We have work to do. Come on Junior. Kastle heads for his car. Junior gets up and follows. The two sleazeballs tarry as Theo stands.
If Junior thinks you're doing the bouncy bouncy with his sister, he's gonna tap dance on your spleen.
Buzz has been moving the cash out in hollow bowling pins. Sid and Breeze throw sideways glances at each other.
No!
I want you two to pick up Buzz and bring him to lane six. Junior will take it from there.
Junior's a problem child. He has a thing about 
SHEILA!
Come on, Junior. Everyone's waiting for you, son. The beam of light catches Junior's face. He is crouched inside the machine at lane six. Jr. His face is cut and bleeding and his straitjacket torn and filthy.
Needs lubrication. Lubrication.
We're having a party for you, boy. Cake and shishkbob, just like you love. Junior cringes away from the light.
You made me hurt him!
I have someone for you to play with Junior.
Someone wants to play with me?
I have someone for you to play Blueface with Junior.
Blueface! Blueface is my favorite.
It's not so bad. When I'm alone, it feels like someone else. Sheila grabs the bottle from Junior, opens it and pours some on her shish kebab. She leans over and whispers furiously to her father.
Do you have to get your hooks into every guy I'm interested in?
Come on Sheila, knockknock.
Who's there?
Junior.
Junior who?
J'youandyourfriend do it yet?
I don't like to talk about it.
You're prone to violent outbursts, aren't you?
It depends.
It feels good to let it out, doesn't it? Sheila leans over and whispers furiously to her father.
Knockknock.
Who's there?
Who's there!
Buzz Fazeli.
NO. I SAY KNOCKKNOCK! You say who's there. I say who's there and then you say who who. You're not playing right. Knockknock.
Who's there?
JUNIOR! You're supposed to say JUNIOR WHO! I'm going to have to hurt you. Theo and Junior circle one another.
You shouldn't touch her.
No, Junior, you shouldn't touch her.
Nobody touches her. Except me. I touch her. Sheila told me you played bouncy bouncy with her.
What did your dad tell you to do to Buzz? Theo scrambles up the lane on hands and knees. Junior catches him, grabbing his ankles.
He told me to play BlueFace with Buzz. I like games.
What did you do to Buzz?
You played bouncybouncy with Sheila, so I'm gonna play BlueFace with you.
I don't want to play.
Don't tell me, John.
Cool!
Theo. Howzitgoin.
Hey man, welcome to our parking lot. Lemme give you some advice, if she asks you to dance, make sure her brother's not around. Somebody blew out Junior's pilot light, if you get my meaning.
How's that?
I was doing the lambada with her and the guy freaks, he breaks my arm, tries to kill me. I swear man, the guy thought I was a piata. If nobody else hadn't a been there, he wouldn't have stopped. He woulda killed me. Fuckin' guy man, just snapped. How do you like your burger?
Uh...over easy.
I'll tell you one thing, you won't see me around that alley with that freak on the loose. Stay away from his ass  and don't play any of his fuckin' knockknock jokes.
Hello?
Hello, mom?
Theodore? Where are you? Are you alright?
I found dad.
He's dead, isn't he. Buzz Fazeli might just as well have died before you were born.
Mom, you know I had to do it. I just did it a little too late.
You sure you're OK Teddy? You're not bowling are you?
I gotta go. Love ya mom.
Oh sure. Let everyone in. From now on I leave the door wide open. Let the parade begin!
Clam it!
He's the guy Buzz.
He's not the guy, Millie. Just whip the whips.
I looked in his car. He's got pictures of you, clippings, maps.
Bowlers don't go around killing other bowlers. He's only a fan, Millie. I'll give him some tips and an autograph and he's outta here.
You're in trouble, aren't you Buzz? You're doing something dangerous in that alley.
Millie, I know what I'm doing.
We should leave this town. I can't take this anymore. I'm not gonna let him kill you in my house.
Son?
Millie, please. I don't have a son. I think you better leave now young man. Buzz gestures towards the front door.
My poor baby!
You see what you did? Take your ball and get out.
Buzz Fazeli.
Theo.
I know your face, you're an upandcomer. You bowl on the tour.
I'm not on the tour this year.
Need some advice, huh.
Well, Mr. Fazeli, the Bowling Congress says I'm a thorn in their side.
Don't worry about the Congress, they're just a bunch of moralistic busybodies.
I got suspended when I was young, too. I was pretty cocky in my day.
They suspended me for 100 years.
100 years!
I can appeal in five. I was hoping you could help me Mr. Fazeli.
What do you think I can do?
I need a sponsor to get my sanction card back. Where I come from, you're the king.
Sure, around here, any fat old bald guy could be king. I'm nothing. It wouldn't do any good for me to talk to the Congress. Hey, you thirsty? You like orange whips?
I've never had orange whips, I'm from Akron.
Remember the finals in Akron in '59? You had a seventen split in the final frame.
Yeah, against that prick VanDeMark.
Ten thousand to one, but you pegged it. The toughest shot on the last frame.
That game was before you was born.
My mom was there. She told me about it. The 'Fazeli Split.'
Orange whip, nectar of the bowling gods. Thanks sweetie. Millie turns the tray so that Buzz takes the untainted whip. Theo takes the other glass.
Thanks.
Where'd you get this ball?
It's mine.
Who gave it to you?
Grace Skinner.
Grace Skinner. Who's Grace Skinner to you?
She's my mom.
Who are you? Who sent you here?
I'm your son. You're a hard father to find.
I don't know no Grace Skinner.
You knew her. You married her in 1963.
You're a bullshit artist, that's what you are. You got no right to be here! Theo yanks the trophy away from Buzz.
I got a right. You're my father.
I ain't nobody's father!
Millie left to stay with her sister in Ronkonkoma.
You know what a mixer ball is? It's like you, you come out of nowhere and upset things, scattering everything all over. Buzz grumpily waves at him to sit.
What are you doing over at the lanes that's so dangerous, Buzz?
You shouldn't listen to her, she's a nervous old Nellie.
She thinks someone's trying to kill you.
I couldn't pay someone enough to try to kill me. Sheila comes over to take their orders.
Theo.
Theo! This is Sheila Kastle, my partner's daughter.
Watch out for that one. She's got a great average, but she's looking for a prince. And, believe me, she's
kissed a lotta tadpoles. Listen, I been thinking about your problem. I'm not the guy to sponsor you. It would be unethical. But, there is something I could do for you. Puttputt golf.
Puttputt golf?
It's the next level, the next dimension... ...the small ball.
The small ball.
It's gonna be bigger than big. Think Europe. Think Asia. They don't have room for real golf courses in Japan.
Not for me. Miniature golf's for pansies.
If the Japanese are pansies, then pansies are my kind of people. Sheila steps over to the booth with their food. The Buzz Burger has three holes cut in the middle to make it look like a bowling ball. Buzz sees the two sleazeballs park their car and walk towards the diner.
Maybe I could bowl in Japan.
What the fuck is this?
What's it look like to you?
It looks like dwarf bowling.
I do what I gotta do to survive.
You have no right to call yourself a bowler. Buzz slaps Theo in the face.
I'm more of a bowler than you'll ever be. I deal with my own shit. I ain't asking anyone to bail me out.
I'm your blood.
You wish!
What makes you so sure it was me? She coulda had lotsa bowlers! Theo rushes Buzz and grabs his arm. The two men struggle for the pin.
Don't say that about my mom!
I had a career. She wanted a little bowler of her own. Sid and Breeze leap into the fray, prying the two men apart. They wrestle Theo against a wall, pressing his face into the tiles.
Fuck you and fuck bowling.
That's a laugh. You're all strung out. You're a bowling junkie.
I don't need the stinking protour.
You're dead without the protour, and you know it. Get him away from me. Sid and Breeze punch Theo in the face.
Theo, I want you to get out of this town.
I'm getting to like it here.
Did that porcupine say he'd get you back on the tour?
I gotta survive.
He'll be a barnacle on your ass the rest of your life.
You got a better offer?
No...
I didn't think so.
Not for somebody who hit a man with his ball on national television.
That's right, Buzz, and you know when I did it? Last match, last frame. All I needed was one spare for the crown  and I get stuck with the seventen, the Fazeli Split.
You never even took the shot. You couldn't do it. Theo moves towards Buzz in a threatening manner.
I was beaten on a shot named after my own dad. The moment passes. Theo turns and climbs into his car. He looks up at Buzz.
Look, kid, gimme a break. I'm an old man. I'm runnin' on a Delrin aorta. I'm finished  dead from my ankles up.
I couldn't care less.
We ain't married no more.
He says that to all his wives.
The whole world thinks you're underground.
I am underground.
It could just as easily have been me in that box.
I told you to get lost. You forced yourself into this mess, so the mess accommodated you. Buzz straightens out and carefully remolds the bent out of shape halo.
What about bowling?
Bowling died for me years ago. Besides, I'm a living dead legend. I'm a hero.
You're a scumbag.
So, eh, you never saw me. Right?
I never saw you.
Thanks, kid. Where are you goin' now?
I'm goin' straight. No more short cuts. Theo gets into the car. Buzz leans in the open window.
Listen, if straight doesn't work out, you come work for me. Just make sure nobody's following you. Buzz's face is eerily lit by the glow of the sunset, his halo bouncing in the breeze.
I didn't mean that stuff I said. I was trying to keep you out of this muddle. I'm glad I didn't have my tubes tied. Oh, and by the way, I made a call for you before I  uh  retired. Buzz takes his card and scrawl on the back with a gold pen.
You give Ed Klein of the American Bowling Congress a call. Tell him your Maynard's boy. He's expecting you, and he owes me. He'll getcha back in like Flynn. Don't say I never gave you nothing.
See ya 'round Maynard.
What's on your mind, Miles?
We've been partners a long time now, haven't we Buzz?
Seven years.
This scam we got going here was your
brainstorm, Buzz. I admit, I thought it was a rotten idea, but I put up the scratch. And now we got a beautiful thing.
It's a beautiful thing.
A beautiful thing. And you know why Buzz? You know what we got? Buzz raises an eyebrow as he buttons his shirt.
And look at that; both partners go down together. Kastle shoves the sculpture onto the floor, stands up, and crushes it under his heel. He goes over and puts his arm around Buzz.
Simple math, Buzz. Two plus two does not equal three.
Miles, I've always been on the square with you.
I'm sure you have Buzz.
Wish me luck.
Yeah, and make it extra muddy, I didn't sleep a zee last night. Sheila fills a cup. Buzz lifts it to his mouth, his hands trembling.
You don't need coffee, Mr. Fazeli; you need a vacation. Sheila catches sight of Theo pulling into the parking lot. She puts a Ken head earring in her right ear. Buzz follows Sheila's gaze.
Some people will do anything for an autograph. Theo enters the diner and walks over to Buzz.
Buzz Burger, side of 'cues. You haven't introduced me to your fan.
Sheila, meet...uh... I forget the name.
You look like you're something on the lanes.
Theo's bowled on the tour.
Oh, a professional man. What'll you have?
Hey, ain't I seen you on the tour?
No, pinhead, he ain't here to bowl.
Fazeli...I don't know no Buzz Fazeli.
What do you want with old man Faz?
Yeah, basement bingo.
Lemme see your ball.
Ah, come on, lemme see your ball.
You afraid we're gonna steal it?
Three whips. To go.
When you get a chance.
Hey, you still here?
We're looking for Buzz Fazeli, seen him?
Buzz, Mr. Kastle wants to talk to you.
Are you guys bruddas?
Look, Faz, Mr. Kastle was not his usual charismatic self today when he told us to tell you... What was that he said...?
I remember, Sid! Mr. Kastle says he don't like no sticky fingers in the till.
Pinhead! Don't just blurt it right out.
Your pop said to put these on his tab. Sid gets up and jerks his thumb towards the door.
So Buzz, let's skedaddle. Mr. Kastle is waiting. As Buzz gets up, Theo rises and steps between his father and the two sleazeballs.
Bowling used to be so pure, so...All American. Breeze sings along with Caruso and pretends to conduct.
La da da dalala...
I hate fuckin' opera.
How could you hate opera, Sid? Opera has all the drama and excitement of real life  to music!
How do you know, you don't even speak Latin?
You listen to the feelings, not the words.
You got an 8track tape player on purpose, just 'cause you knew the only thing they had on 8track was fuckin' opera.
It was a clearance.
You know, Elvis bowled.
No kiddin'.
Bowling was the most incorruptible sport. No megalomillionaires, no
gambling. And it was a safe place for kids, a place where the whole community could meet for some wholesome, clean fun.
Sure, Sid.
But not no more. Now people take advantage. Bowling ain't what it used to be. There's something evil spreading in this sport  like a big, gigantic, puss ridden 
 canker sore.
Right, eating at the core, eating it's way out. It makes me sick!
How do you turn this thing off?
Wait! That's an aria!
Hello Mr. Kastle. Junior, long time. I thought they locked you up and threw away the warden!
Is it true they blacked out the whole county giving you electroshock? Junior looks from one man to the other, breathing heavily, his nostrils flaring.
Bowling police, step back, give him room.
Nothing going on here, everybody stand back. Let him through, ladies. Ladies, please. As they start to move through the female throng, a little girl pops out in front of them, holding her ball.
Did you know you were parked in the handicap space?
Kastle's daughter's been lookin' for you.
She told us you went after Junior to save your old man's hide. You got some balls goin' after that psycho.
Only problem is, you didn't put his lights out, you just got him mad. Then he took it out on poor Faz, God rest his soul. Theo patches out.
Think he bought it?
I'd buy it!
The Faz sure took care a her. Breeze makes a nasal GRUNT as he tries to suppress a snigger. Sid  trying to keep a straight face  elbows him. Sid and Breeze approach the coffin. Breeze pulls an orange whip out of a paper bag and carefully places it on the coffin lid.
Nectar of the bowling gods, Faz.
See ya 'round Faz.
Where can I find Buzz Fazeli?
Whoa, cool your maples. Over the bridge, past the Peter Pan, last house on the dead end. Theo releases Sid's hand. Sid drops to his knees and cradles his damaged hand.
Haven't seen a ball like that since '69.
It belonged to my dad.
I don't know no Buzz Fazeli.
Look Sid, a Buzz Burger. The Faz's favorite lunch. Sid reaches for the plate. Buzz walks over to the booth and pulls his burger away from Sid.
Hey, cut it out Sid, that tickles. I'm serious! You guys are related, right?
He's my dad.
Heh, heh, heh.
You said it would be unethical to help me. You call dwarf bowling ethical!
Sorry about your loss.
I should've pegged you guys for bowling dicks from day one.
After we ID, we bury the body. Case and casket closed.
You tried to make it look like Junior trashed his place. Junior's underground in that coffin you dicks put him in.
It's splitsville for you.
You a minigolfer?
Nope.
Paradise, huh? Might be one of the new puttputts off route 99. Theo turns to leave.
Can I get you something for the road?
You have orange whips?
Orange who? Not from 'round here, are ya?
No. I'm from Akron.
I'm an addict. I can't go through a day without the stuff. Theo reaches over and pours for him with a steady hand.
You're not from around here, are you?
I'm from Akron.
I'm looking for a man.
What kind of man?
A bowler.
99 years, 241 days, 15 hours, and 20 minutes of no bowling. Alfie shuffles up to the selfserve island and begins wiping it down.
Find your bowler?
Yeah, but it didn't go so good. He wasn't the man I thought he'd be. Theo is trying to affix the lid on his cup, but his hands are trembling, spilling some of the coffee.
My father used to say to me "Never..." no, hmmm. "Always..." No, no... Ah! Love and hate are blood relations.
Maybe I should have left the ball in the car.
Did you hear about that bowler who got smeared? I saw them pull a body bag out of the alley. I heard he was kacked but good. They had to take apart the pin machine to get him out.
The pin machine?
Just like Junior did the last time; lane six. All's I know is it's gonna be a closed coffin. My advice to you is to lay low. He puts on a pair of dark 7Eleven shades, flips up his collar and skulks away.
Officer Taylor, how are you this evening?
Mac. What's shaking?
Mac, I have a favor to ask you. Mac looks at Taylor 
Certainly. If you need anything, please feel free to ask me. Just a reminder we have fabulous cuisine available 
Yes I know all that. Mac, I need you to help us out with a little technical problem.
Certainly. I have a full working knowledge of the ships operations.
Right, I understand that...
I need you to actually do something for me. I need to access your CPU, directly.
That will not be necessary. You can simply speak to me. I understand most languages fluently.
Yeah but the ship's mainframe doesn't. I need you to tell it something.
Alteration of my central processing unit should be done only by an authorized service dealer.
I know but we're in a bind.
Now Mac, can you tell me the status of this deck?
One moment please... one moment please...
But the corridor outside this door is open, correct?
Yes. You can enjoy some wonderful views from there.
Mac, what about the suit compartments on this level? Can they be accessed?
I'm sorry. The suit compartments are in a nonoxygenated, zero gravity atmosphere. I'm afraid that's off limits to all passengers.
Ok Mac... I'll talk to you on this. I want to find a way to get to the bridge, then I want you to come back.
Certainly. Anything I can do to be of service.
How is it looking, Mac?
I would recommend a maintenance crew in this sector.
Is it safe for human transport?
That's affirmative.
Look. We're talking about life and death here. I don't know why we're even having this conversation.
Well what would you know about it? You don't have anything to lose.
You're gonna give him those bank codes, you know why? Because I'm telling you to, that's why. I'm not losing my life over some greedy pig.
Who are you calling a pig, rummy?
I haven't quite made up my mind yet.
I'll tell you what you're gonna do. You're gonna stay put like Taylor said.
Again with the orders from you! You got a Napoleon complex chief, and I'm getting sick of it!
What are you going to do about it?
I tell you, something's not right here. How do we know they're not going to use the pod for themselves?
Because, Taylor wouldn't do that, that's why.
What makes you so sure?
What the hell is that?
The engines!
I'm homesick.
Homesick? It's only been two days!
We should have gone to Nassau. At least we could go swimming, lie on the beach.
Ah hell we can always do that. Listen believe me, once we get to the moon, your tone is going to change.
How is it going to be different from this? Go see some boring footprint under glass?
Look you were the one who wanted to do something different, something to tell all your friends. Any chump can go to Nassau.
Look around you baby, we're rubbing elbows with royalty, oil sheiks, this is class. You'll be envied by everyone.
I guess so.
Besides I can't wait to tee off on the sea of tranquillity. That should shore up that prick Hank Drexler.
Oh no...I think there's carrots in here...
Send it back if you don't want it.
Well now what are we gonna do!
How am I supposed to know?
You're Delbert Miles! You have more clout than some whacked out pilot! Talk to him!
Talk to him...Jesus...
It's getting too cold in here. I can't stand this anymore!
Baby, take it easy.
How can you sit there with your fat stomach and tell me to take it easy! I want to go home! I want to be warm! I want to get out of here!
What is happening around here!!!
There's no time to explain. Get everyone together! We found a way to the pods!
Where's Taylor?
He's up on the bridge! He's going to be OK. Now who's missing?
Carlo!
He's in the bathroom.
I'm going back for Taylor!
Are you nuts! It's too risky!
I'm fine.
Congratulations on your...recent award.
Thank you.
Is there anything I can help you with?
No, just enjoying the view.
Well, there's no better to way to see the world, than with us.
So I've been told.
Well if you need anything, please feel free to ask me. Just a reminder we have fabulous cuisine available 24 hours in the earthrise room, and a large selection of vintage wines here in our ship bar.
Yes Mac, but the guests are requesting it. It will reduce the level of negative feedback.
That is one of my priorities.
Oh right, right you're on that research grant.
That's right.
Ryan Taylor, first mate. Welcome aboard. First time in space?
Yes. Theoretical discoveries aside, there's nothing like the real thing. How about you?
This is my second commercial flight. I used to run satellite freighters but that got old fast.
So you were looking for a new challenge.
Well, plus the money ain't that bad. DAWN So, tell me, do you think everyone gets their million dollars' worth on this trip of a lifetime?
Well, let me put it this way. Most of the cost is due to safety reasons. Most people are not familiar with space travel, so we have to take extra precautions in the event they do something careless.
Like open an airlock by mistake?
Well I don't think there's a chance of that happening. It's usually the moon walks. Sometimes you feel like a kindergarten teacher.
Well I hope I don't do anything careless.
I'm sure you'll be all right.
Actually I've logged about 200 hours of simulated space walking at the institute, mostly related to starship construction.
Really?
Still, I hope I behave on the moon. I'll stick close to you.
What are we going to do?
I don't know.
We don't.
Well maybe there's a way out of here.
Fat chance of that. Even if we had C4 and a laser torch these doors wouldn't budge. That son of a bitch...that stupid son of a bitch.
Given a malfunction, how would a rescue team get you out if the doors won't open?
Probably come through the wall I suppose.
Well maybe we can do something like that.
I don't think you know what you're talking about. Besides, what could we use for tools? A steak knife? A corkscrew?
Just considering our options... sir.
Supposing we could get out of this room? Is there anything we could do to reach the bridge?
It depends on the condition of the ship. If I could get to one of the suit compartments I could check the exterior air locks for a possible entry.
Can't we access the mainframe to check the ship's condition?
With what? How am I going to interface with it? I need to be able to talk to the system and to have the system talk to me.
OK...it's open.
Seen one like it before?
Sure. It complies with all standard construction codes.
Great.
Damn it. If only we could get to those suits... Dawn then thinks of something 
Why can't we?
I don't know the condition of the compartments. Depending on damage, debris...could be a fatal mistake.
And suppose you couldn't hold out?
Suppose you didn't have to hold your breath?
We could send Mac. If he can retrieve one suit, we could go back for the other.
You're right.
He certainly is polite.
Close every door behind you!
It must be oxygenated if we can hear him.
Yeah, let's hope he can find a way through.
If I could get to the bridge I could send the distress signal.
Even if we do, it might be too late.
Everyone just stay put.
Wait.
I can't let you do that.
Look I know what I'm doing. I have experience and training in space walking.
Simulated space walking.
I don't know what we're facing.
I understand.
Are you ready?
Ready as I'll ever be.
Yeah. We did it.
So we did.
You're ready for the real thing?
At this point I'm ready for anything.
Be careful, you don't want to puncture the suit.
Don't worry about me. Where are we going?
Explosive?
One of Barnes' duds, luckily for us. Take this out of the equation right now...
Taylor?
Yeah?
What do you think's going to happen to us?
Well, Dawn, I'm an optimist by nature.
Yeah, but you didn't answer my question.
Do you want some advice?
Sure.
Don't worry about what will happen, just concentrate on what is happening. You'll live longer.
Words to live by.
Dawn! Dawn!
Helllp!
I guess I owe you a debt of gratitude. You saved my life.
It was no time to lose my partner. We're going to have to hurry, he's on to us.
Oh my God. What happened?
The room is filled with poison gas. The hydraulic system must have blown.
What's that?
A schematic of the ship. Looking for a lifeline to the pods.
We don't have enough suits to get the others out.
That's why we need a safe passage. remember what you said earlier, about getting through the wall? That might just be our ticket.
Take this flare.
A flare? A flare won't do it.
No...
A little dab'll do ya. Now you know how to get there, right?
Why? Where are you going?
I'm not going with you.
What? What are you talking about?
There's only room on that pod for seven. That's you and the others. I'm counting on you to get them out of there.
And what are you going to do?!
I'm going to try and buy you some time. I can get to the bridge from here.
But how are you going to escape?
Don't worry about me. There's still a chance I can issue a distress signal.
But you can't be sure! It's suicide. You have to come with us!
I can't!
I will once I get past the bulkhead. Good luck.
You too.
Dawn. Come in.
Taylor! Where are you?
I'm in the bridge.
Barnes?
He's out of the equation. Talk to me.
I'm about to blow the wall.
Hurry. You have to get them out of there!
How does the distress signal look?
Uh, it's ok, everything's going to be ok...now I'm counting on you, and whatever you do keep calm, we don't want them to panic.
I'll do my best.
So what's going to happen to you?
I'm staying with the ship. I'll be all right. Now hurry.
Thanks for everything, Taylor. Will I see you again?
Hopefully sooner than later.
Sooner than later.
Over and out.
What the hell are you doing?
We have room! Let's go!
What do you mean? What happened!
We don't have time. I'll explain later, hurry!
So close...
And so far.
I never thought this would happen. No premonitions, nothing.
It did. It is. There's nothing we can do about that.
Except write our wills.
Will you marry me?
Marry you?
That's right. Will you marry me?
I would, but no one can perform the ceremony. I guess it doesn't matter.
It would matter to us.
In that case, I accept.
Good. In that case, I pronounce us man and wife.
Right now it's about 8 o'clock at home. People are going to work, kids are going to school...
Try not to think about it.
What is it?!
I don't know. Wave to them!
Look at this...Jesus.
Yeah, I guess money don't buy class.
No. But it buys a lot of other things.
Like that piece of ass he was with.
Well...I don't mind. I can put up with it. I'm taking six months off after this, and I won't have to deal with people snapping their fingers at me.
Not me. I'm in for the long haul. In nine months I'll have enough to take a few years off.
Well, more power to you. Me, I start to bug out after too much time out here.
I don't have a problem with it. Besides, you get to meet a lot of interesting people.
What's the use...we're gonna die...
Don't say that! It ain't over till it's over!
We're going to die.
Will you shut up already?
It's getting hard to breathe...
Just don't move around too much.
Barnes?
That's me.
Break it down to me, what's going on?
Seems like they're cooperating. Hopefully I'll be out of here and on my way very soon.
Well don't drag your ass. There won't be much of a window for us to link up. We'll be in your orbit trajectory in less than two hours.
Yeah, I know Bill, I came up with the plan remember? Just have those hangar doors open and ready, I can take it from there.
Will do. What about the distress signal?
I don't know. I really haven't made up my mind yet. We'll see how nicely they behave.
Well that's your call. Doesn't make a damn bit of difference to me. Just as long as I get my cut.
Oh you'll get it, believe me. So I'll see you in a few.
104 good buddy.
It's time we lock coordinates.
I know, I know.
So, what are we waiting for?
Cool your jets...I'm doing a little damage control.
Damage control! What kind of damage? What's going on Barnes!
You're not helping my heart condition any, Barnes! Now just what the hell are you dragging your ass for?
The others decided to get cute with me, so I'm teaching them a lesson!
This ship is going down in a blaze of glory!
Well blaze your ass out of there! You've completely altered your trajectory, are we linking up or not?!
Don't worry about me, I'm changing coordinates now. I've come to far to be tripped up by some Dudley doright... motherfuckers!
Well if you knew it then why did set your thrusters on before making the calculation?
I told you, I had to teach a few people a lesson!
Goddamn it Barnes this really steams my onions!
Let's get something straight, Chappy!
Now I got enough air and supplies to make another complete orbit in the pod! You're just gonna have to pick me up later.
This is a major screw up on your part, goddamn it!
Is that clear?
That's clear.
Good. Now you'll hear from me when I have the new coordinates. In the meantime don't bug me.
Sheesh! Aye aye cap'n!
Over and out!
Well I guess there's no time like the present. I'll go run a check on that room, just to show we go that extra mile for our guests.
Sounds like you've been talking to Mac too much.
No, I just ran it! Why are you running it again?
Well it's a good thing that I did.
It's telling me fail mode confirmed. Did you see this?
There must be some mistake. You sure you hit the right commands?
Yes I'm sure I hit the right commands.
Why don't you reset and run it again. The pods check out ok.
You're certain of that?
Trust me. Even checked 'em with my own eyes.
All right, I'll give it a shot.
Well, everything's running smoother than a baby's ass.
Ain't it the truth. The two say nothing for a beat 
So, are you on for the next one?
I don't know. Everything's up in the air at this point, no pun intended.
Why, didn't they say?
Well that hotel begins construction in January, there's going to be a lot of shuttle work.
You want to go back to shuttle work?
It's steady, good benefits.
You gotta think of your old age.
That's very pragmatic of you, Barnes.
Thank you.
Man, I'm hungry. I'm going to call the steward, you want anything?.
Nah, I already ate. Why don't you just go down there?
What, and leave you here all by your lonesome?
Uh...
I think I can handle it.
Well, maybe I will. You sure you don't want anything?
No. I'm all set. Thanks.
Well, maybe I'll surprise you.
I can hardly wait.
Bridge! Can anyone hear me?!
Yeah yeah yeah, give me a minute here.
If anyone can hear me please respond!
That's very professional sounding of you, Taylor.
Barnes, can you hear me, are you all right?
Why yes Ryan, I am, and thanks for asking. You don't have to talk to the intercom, I can hear you fine.
What is the condition of the bridge?
The bridge is fine, Taylor, how are things down there?
Transmit the code 3 emergency and take us offline. Override the airlock sensors and hurry! We're running out of time, we have to get to the pods!
Much as I'd like to help you and our valued guests, I'm afraid I can't.
What are you talking about! Can you transmit the code 3 
Yes I can transmit the code 3 emergency! I just don't think it's a prudent move at this juncture.
Now do you want the good news first or the bad news?
You better start making sense!
Ok, I will. The bad news is the ship is history. Life support will last another 36 hours, maybe.
Then we've got to get to the lifepods!
I'd advise you to shut up and let me finish Taylor. You needn't worry about the lifepods because they're all gone, jettisoned. Save for one.
It's still not going to work! They'll detect you upon reentry in an emergency vessel!
Who said I'll reenter in the pod? I got friends out in space, Ryan, friends willing to get me back unnoticed. Thank God for deregulation huh?
Uh, that's an affirmative, Roger Wilco. Please proceed.
We have the codes here. How do you want to receive them?
Well, preferably in tens and twenties...
That was a joke Taylor, lighten up! Why don't you just hold them up to the lens. I'll write them down, and once I'm through verifying them, I'll get back to you.
Will you transmit the distress signal?
Mac, can you hear me? Come in?
Taylor, you surprise me.
I don't know what you're talking about!
Sure you do. Sending Mac out on a little recon work. How pathetic. Problem is it seems Mac blew a few fuses. Or maybe he's just a little drunk. Were you partying with a robot Taylor?
Look we gave you what you asked for. It checks out didn't it?! What more do you want from us!
I told you not to try anything smart! I guess you're too much of a maverick to follow a simple order! And that's just too bad for all of you now, isn't it?
Look you said it doesn't matter to you anyway! Why do you want to kill more innocent people! Why!
Idiot...
Good help is hard to find...
Why should she, it's her fault. All guests are told not to eat in zero gravity, but she just wanted to have fun I guess, didn't realize what a grain of salt can do to sophisticated machinery.
Well, I guess she figures she's paying for it.
Ain't it the truth. Must be good to be rich.
What did you say to me?
It's a little late for you to be up.
Look answer my question!
All too well, captain.
Well shut it off at once!
Where the hell did you come from?
Hello second mate Barnes. I was instructed to come to the bridge.
Weren't you down in the dining room?
I was there. Officer Taylor accessed my CPU directly to open the airlock doors. They are not functioning properly.
Oh he did, did he?
Yes he did. Yes he did. Barnes looks at the monitor  Taylor and the others are still in the dining room 
You didn't do anything to the monitors, did you Mac?
I did nothing to the monitors.
And what are they doing now, Mac?
They are awaiting further information.
Were you going to give it to them?
I am here to provide service to... to all our guests. There is a high level of passenger dissatisfaction. It is my duty...to report this.
Well you did the right thing Mac.
On channel 10?
The device has stopped responding.
Mac, you really earned your wings this flight.
My...wings...
I am here to provide service to... to all our guests. There is a high level of passenger dissatisfaction. It is my duty...to report this.
I hear you Mac and I appreciate it. Frankly I don't know what I'd have done without you on this one.
There is a high level...of passenger dissatisfaction.
And I intend to correct that at once. I'll tell you something Mac...
Evening.
It can't be.
Excuse me?
You're Warren Wayne.
Uh, yes I am. And you are?
Anna Koros. She sensually extends her hand, Warren shakes it 
Koros, as in...Koros? Dimitri Koros?
My grandfather. My God, I can't tell you what a fan I am of yours! You were magnificent in Deadly Gamble.
Oh, thank you.
Magnificent, magnificent.
Well I appreciate that.
So, what brings you out here? Pleasure cruise?
Well a little business too. In my upcoming project Star Trackers I play a ship's captain, and I really wanted to get a feel for the outer space experience. I feel it will add more credibility to my performance.
Of course, of course...
So...
Well I guess we're neighbors for this trip.
Well, so we are. Sure is beautiful, huh?
It certainly is.
Well, it was nice meeting you. Enjoy the rest of the trip.
I'm sure I will.
No, I think hygiene is important. It helps you get into the part.
Very professional of you.
Oh my God, what is he doing?
He's shutting off the air!!!
Will you two please stop it! I don't want to spend my final hours listening to you bitch!
I'll tell you what I'm going to do.
Getting drunk is no solution.
Yeah, well...I forgot my morphine back in the room.
I think we're moving.
Well isn't that great. Something to write home about.
I never though I'd be stuck in a wine closet with Warren Wayne.
Well get used to it, 'cause here we are, on the cruise of a lifetime.
Oh Warren...oh Warren...take me, God take me...
Oh yeah...
Oh yeah...
Oh Sara...
Anna...
Anna...
Jesus, come on!
They're not going to make it!
What is it?
Bedrock! I cannot dig any further in zis direction!
We're going to die here like baby mice who have had no milk in days. Dry up into crunchy little pinkies.
You don't have watches?
Dude, you didn't say anything about watches.
What do you think this is kid? Lick Barney the Dinosaur's pussy fucking kiddie hour? Huh? This is real life with consequences you take to the grave!
Got it.
And ze rope?
Check.
And the butfor?
We saw the Terrance and Phillip movie!
That's nice, Stan.
Did you see that, Wendy?
Yup.
Didn't you think it was funny, Wendy?
Stan... I think you and I need some time apart.
<u>WHAT?!</u>
Yeah!
This is about freedom of speech, Stan, about censorship.
What the hell are you talking about, kid?
You don't get it Stan... You just don't get it.
Hi Wendy.
Hi Stan.
NAZIS!!
What's the matter, Wendy?
Nothing, Stan. You wouldn't understand.
God damn it, why does she keep saying that?
Wendy?
Stan?! YOU started La Resistance?
Stan! Stan are you okay?!
Wendy?
Wendy... How would you like to go get some ice cream?
Sure, Stan! How did you know I loved ice cream?
My friend the clitoris told me.
Wow, I have a clitoris too.
Really? Where the hell do you keep it? It's huge.
Stan, I never cared for Gregory.
You didn't?
No, dude. Fuck him. Fuck him in the ear.
Cool!
<b>Thank my lucky stars Here before me now Is everything I'd ever hoped for</b>
<b>Knew it in a word Saw it in a glance The only thing I think I'd die for</b>
Oh, a new recruit, huh? Welcome to hell, kid! Relax! Take a load off!!
You remember... Saddam Hussein, don't you?!
Saddam, would you let me do my job please!
Hey relax, guy. Let's see what the kid wants.
Well of COURSE he wants out of hell! The whole POINT of hell is that you don't WANT to be here!
Okay, kid, I have a deal for you! If you want out of hell, all you have to do is collect 10 proofs of purchases from 'Snacky Smores.' They're rich, chocolatey and really hit the spot. Bring me ten proofs of purchases and we'll grant you ANY WISH YOU WANT.
I don't see why you have to belittle me in front of people like that.
Hey, relax guy. It's just a cruel joke. Rich, chocolatey Snacky Smores are only available up on Earth. He'll never get 'em, see?
Sometimes I just think you don't have any respect for me.
Hey, come here, guy.
Who's my cream puff?
I am.
You just get cranky when you're tired, that's all. I told you that you shouldn't have tried to carry that futon all by yourself.
I'm not cranky. And that futon was not too big to carry myself
It has come to be... The Four Horsemen are drawing nigh! The time of the prophecy is upon us!
Oh I love when you get all biblical Satan. You know exactly how to turn my crank!
No I'm being serious! Those Canadian entertainers are to be killed. It is the seventh sign.
Yeah! YEAH!!! Man I'm getting so HOT!!!
Do you always think about sex? I'm talking about some very important stuff here!
Listen buttercup, let's make love and forget about the whole thing.
Is sex the only thing that matters to you?
You know I do.
I know.
So what do you say we shut off that light and get close, huh?
What did you do today Satan?
You don't care.
Hey fella! Relax! This whole armageddon thing has got you all stressed out. Let's make love.
Do you remember when you first got here? We used to talk all night long. Until the sun came up... We would just lie in bed and TALK.
That's because I wanted to fuck you, dumbass! Now hows aboot you get those pants down!
Don't call me dumb!
I mean cute dumb. Now bend over!
This is the millennium, Saddam! This is Armageddon! There's more to life than sex!
Hey, relax guy!
Well I just want you to be impressed with what I <u>do</u>. I want you to respect my MIND.
I DO respect your mind! It turns me on! It makes me wanna fuck the shit out of you! Don't you see?
<b>What if I, don't wanna put out? That's all you ever say Relax put out I'm a living creature, I have feelings too, I don't need this abuse from you</b>
<b>Hey, guy, relax, put out! You gotta relax, shut your mouth Baby I'd do anything for ya! Now don't make me smack you in the eye like last time</b>
What if I just left?
Where're you gonna go, bitch? Besides, you know that if you left me, I'd hunt you down and kill you, right? I'm gonna go grab a drink.
Hey, I'm missing the party!
No! It can't be!
I TOLD you not to make that deal, Saddam!
Who gives a fuck?! I was just fucking with him!
No, Saddam. You made a deal. You can't just renege on a deal. That's lying.
Relax bitch! You're better seen, not hear okay?
Help you? You've destroyed my life and now you want me to help you?! You're always making me feel like a piece of shit.
Come on guy, you know I only rib you because I love you so much!
If you love somebody then you treat them with respect! You've never respected me!
Can we talk about this later? Everyone is watching!
I don't care! I want to talk about it now!
Ow, you're hurting me!
Listen guy, you're embarassing me in front of my friends! You know how I get mad when I get embarassed.
Now do what I say and keep your fucking mouth shut!
THAT'S IT! I HAVE HAD ENOUGH!!!!
What?! Why would you call me a pigfucker?!
Well, let's see... First of all, you fuck pigs.
Oh yeah!
Well, fuck my ass and call me a bitch, I just got a letter!
A letter from who, you shit sucking cock master?
It's from your mother.
My mother sent YOU a letter? What's it say?
It says 'Dear Terrance, please don't ever tell my son that I licked your hairy balls.'
You'd fuck your uncle!
YOU'D fuck your uncle!
<b>Shut your fucking face, Unclefucka!! You're an asslicking, Ball sucking Unclefucka!! You're an Unclefucka, yes it's true Nobody fucks Uncles quite like you</b>
<b>SHUT YOUR FUCKING FACE!! UNCLEFUCKA!!! YOU'RE the one that fucked your Uncle, UNCLEFUCKA!!! You don't eat, or sleep or mow the lawn You just fuck your Uncle all day long!</b>
Well, Terrance I hope you learned something from this whole experience.
I did, Terrance, I learned that you are a boner biting dick fart fuck face!
Say Phillip, want to see the Northern Lights?
You bet, Terrance!
HA HA HA! You burned yourself to death by lighting the fart! HA HA HA!!
I sure did, Phillip!!
Hello, Conan!
Hello, Brooke Shields!
Good one, Phillip! Cheers.
Cheers, Terrance!
Phillip, we've been tricked and ambushed by The Conan O'Brian Show!!
This little scrotum sucker willfully deceived us! You are a bad man!
And you call yourself a Canadian! I told you we should of done Leno!
Fight the power!
The young boy that died lit himself on fire. It was unfortunate, but how can they blame US?
Don't believe the hype!!
The problem is you don't allow your children to think for themselves. You try to raise them in a protective bubble, and then when they finally get old enough, they realize they've been lied to, and they resent you for it.
Yeah, God, no wonder your country is so fucked up.
Oh, you are such a maroon!
You would know, dummy.
Oh, Phillip. This cannot be good.
I know, Terrance. This is quite the shitstorm we've found ourselves in this time.
Phillip, this is worse than that trip to Quebec City when I fell asleep in that disco.
I know, Terrance. I know.
What's going on Terrance?
Canada is saving us!!
Did you hear that, Terrance? I farted!
You did? Just now?
AGH!
Terrance! NO!
You're quite a purveyor of filth, little boy!
Indeedy, that was a delicious choice of words!
Uh, we're just, starting our program...
This is NOT a place for fun and games! This is rehabilitation! Now GET TO IT!! We at MAC have a trial to go to!
How is the children's progress?
Very encouraging. Most of the children have been weened from their naughty mouths.
What do you mean MOST, why not ALL?
Well, some of the children just don't respond to 12 step programs.
Then we'll have to resort to plan B and call the vchip organization.
Mrs. Brovlofski, the Vchip hasn't been fully tested yet, it could be dangerous.
I don't care if it's dangerous! Desperate times call for desperate measures, Mr. Mackey. Perhaps I need to remind you of your situation.
Alright, I'll make the call...
What did my son say, Principal Victoria? Did he say the S word?
No, it was worse than that...
The F word?!
No, worse. Here's a short list of the things they've been saying.
Terrance and Phillip MOVIE?! Oy gevalt! Not again!
What is Terrance and Phillip?
Terrance and Phillip are two VERY untalented, unfunny actors from Canada. Their TV show is filled with toilet humor and bad language and is just complete garbage. Now it appears they have a movie and I'm positive it's not suitable for children!
Well, it looks like I'll have to send a warning letter out to parents. I have to put a stop to this before MORE children see 'Terrance and Phillip'.
We must take action on this immediately.
Ooh yes. I think we'll have to give detention to those boys.
Forgive me for saying so, Principal Victoria, but your methods are too... Shall we say... soft? As head of the PTA, I am exercising my right under article 42 of the PTA code.
Article 42! You don't mean?!
Yes Principal Victoria. The PTA is impeaching you.
But I
You are officially relieved of your duties as principal of this school!
You're all part of Satan's army now!
What the hell is going on?!
I am the dark master!
Oh no you don't! This is MY fight!! I don't need your help, Alan Dershwitz!
SILENCE! I AM SATAN!
Oh.
YOU HAVE SPILLED THE BLOOD OF THE INNOCENTS. NOW THE WORLD BELONGS TO ME... NOW BEGINS TWO MILLION YEARS OF DARKNESS!! AND ALL THANKS TO YOU!!!
Yes... And in doing so, you brought enough anger and intolerance to the world to allow my coming.
And I thought my mother was the master of guilt. Geez Louise.
SILENCE!!! NOW!!! EVERYONE BOW DOWN TO ME!!!
Oh God... What have I done...
My fellow Americans. I have led this fight in the War against profanity. I have founded Mothers Against Canada. Our neighbor to the north has abused us for the last time.
As Commander in chief, I have ordered our Army to set up defensive positions along the USCanada border in anticipation of an attack.
What about air strikes?
Huh?
We have to have air strikes on their military and entertainment centers. It's the only way to ensure that their smut can't reach American soil!
Oh, uh... I don't know if air strikes are necessary.
Not necessary?! Mr. President, may I remind you that our country's heart and soul are at stake, and our children's minds are the battlefield! The bastard Canadians want to fight us because we won't tolerate their potty mouths. Well, if it is war they want... THEN WAR THEY SHALL HAVE!!!
Ma'am, we're tracking a resistance... It's probably Canadian spies!!
Well find out where that signal is coming from! Then hunt them down like dogs! Any and all Canadian influence must be stopped at all cost!
Yes ma'am!
And Bill?
Yes?
I'm needing lunch.
Right away, ma'am!
Oh dear God...
What is 'fisting'?
I knew this would happen! Those bastard Canadians have now killed a child! Can't people see the damage that film is doing?!
He was killed doing something he saw in the movie. It was Terrance and Phillip... THEY killed Kenny.
Sheila, you're going to far! Those are YOUR children!
YES! AND I WILL NOT ALLOW MY CHILDREN TO BE RUINED BY SMUT!! I am sorry young man, but I have had it up to here! STRAP THEM IN!
Oh Lord, what have we done...?
Wake up, people! We all have to do things that aren't pretty sometimes! It's the not pretty things that make life worth fighting the not pretty things for! Why do you think children have to be born in hospitals?
WHERE ARE YOU GOING?! We need to stop the not pretty things from letting our children be born in hospitals!
We're going to find our boys! For God's sake Sheila, you almost had them killed!!
Shiteater
Or monkey fucker
Hey, dudes... Aren't you supposed to go to church, Kenny?
Kyle, check it out.
This is terrible! This can't be happening!!
We HAVE to see this movie, dude!
That was sweet!
Where do they come up with this stuff?!
<b>Thank my lucky stars Here before me now Is everything I'd ever hoped for Knew it in a word Saw it in a glance The only thing I think I'd die for...</b>
Aw, God Damn it, he's singing that fucking song again.
Woa, dude, who's your girlfriend's new guy?
She's not my girlfriend, dude!
Now remember, don't tell anybody we saw the Terrance and Phillip movie!
Yeah, let's swear we won't tell!
Nowhere.
I'VE heard them from Mr. Garrison a few times before...
Yeah!
Dude, anybody who doesn't think Terrance and Phillip is funny can fuck off anyways.
Yeah...
OH MY GOD!! YOU KILLED KENNY!!
YOU BASTARD!!
Oh my God! THEY killed Kenny!
You bastards!!
How can they do this?
It isn't fair!
Dude, our moms arrested Terrance and Phillip!
Our moms suck!
Dude, let's help Terrance and Phillip!!
How do we do that?
What? What don't I get? What don't I get?
I don't know, dude.
That British dickhole is what's taking Wendy away from me!
I thought she wasn't your girlfriend, dude.
She's Not! But if she WAS it would be THAT little asshole who's fucking it up for me!
Wow, dude. Wendy could really give a rats ass about you.
I bet she would if my name was GREGORY!!
Good thing she was never your girlfriend... Dude, here comes Cartman.
Hey, Cartman, did they put that Vchip in your head or your ass?
What's the difference?
Whoa! What the hell was that?!
Dude! It's the Vchip! It shocks him ever time he cusses!
This is sweet!!
Totally!
I'm so sick of these soldiers.
Yeah, they suck.
Does it say what the clitoris is?
All it says is that it's above the vulva... But where the hell is the vulva?
Isn't that in Arizona or something?
It's only a matter of time before my mom has HIM burned too!
What has the world come to? This is horrible. We're locked up, burning books, hating other people
I don't know. But it has gone far enough! I'm sick of it! <b>Something must be done! Change has got to come around! They're taking all our laughter and burning it to the ground! Can't you see what this is leading to? A world of chains and ties and glue! We have to fight before they've taken every one! Something must be done!</b>
I agree! The only way to save our future is to unite and fight! <b>Something must be done! We must take action fast! My parents have gotten so strict they forgot they were children in the past!</b>
Okay... I just need to find a few private message boards...
Wait! Before we put a message out, do a search on the word 'clitoris'.
Okay...
"Found Eight Million Pages With the Word Clitoris"!
Wow!
I'll just try the first one.
Dude, do you know what you're doing?
No, dude, all you have to do is hit the keys really fast and say a bunch of stupid shit and it works.
Wow, a lot of people showed up.
Yeah, so what do we say?
I thought you had something planned.
Me?!
Oh, brother.
Did you shut the alarm off, Cartman?
Stan!
Dude, I found the clitoris! I think I can get Wendy to like me now!
Sweet.
WHAT?
Are you sure, Kenny?
Thank you, Kenny.
Yeah, thanks for going back to hell for us. You're a real pal.
Whew, I'm sure glad that's over.
Yeah, but you know, I learned something today. I learned that getting all worked up over fuck and shit and cockmaster is just stupid... You all focused so hard on erasing profanity that you forgot the most important thing... To love each other.
Mom, I'm a man. Just a man. And I'm going to have fun with profanity just like you and dad did when you were little.
Yeah, so what if you say uncle raper or dicksucker or, or
So... We must free more Canadian prizoners?
Yeah, I guess.
America... She iz a beetch that sheets on her own children.
Oh my God...
God? ...Let me tell you something about God... He is ze biggest bitch of zem all.
Do you see them? Do you see Terrance and Phillip?
No. Zey must have zem inside. We will have to dig.
That's gonna take a long time!
Time? Did time matter to the Revolutionists who were forced to eat their own shit while dying in the dungeons of ze King?
Dude, we don't have watches.
Sheet. Did you bring ze mirror?
What's a butfor?
For pooping, silly.
Now listen carefully. Stan and Kyle, you stand watch here and await my return. If any guards come by, make a sound like a dying giraffe.
What's a dying giraffe sound like?
Gwpaapa. Gwpaapa.
Kay.
Be careful, dude.
Careful? Was my mother careful when she stabbed me in the heart with a clothes hanger while I was still in ze womb?
No! That's not Terrance or Phillip!
Oh... Alright, back you go.
It's so very cold...
We can't leave without you!
It's okay, I am done for.
No, I mean WE CAN'T LEAVE WITHOUT YOU  we don't know where the hell we are!!
Who is it?
Uhh... I'm here for La Resistance.
What's the password?
Uhh... I don't know.
Guess.
Uhh... Bacon.
Okay.
SHIT!
FREEZE!!
Kyle, you take your little brother out to play with you!
Aw, ma!!
Do as I say, Kyle!
Terrance and Phillip, you are under arrest for working in America without the proper documents! WE GOT YOU!
Dude, what the hell is going on?
Boys, we have to have a difficult discussion.
We already know what you did. We saw it on television.
What's that?
You boys need help. There are rehab centers that specialize in treating people with chronic addictions to bad language.
No... The General is right.
MOM!!!
Boobie... This is the only way you're ever going to learn. I have an opportunity here to teach you about consequences.
YOU GOTTA BE FUCKING KIDDING ME!!
KYLE BROVLOFSKI, YOU WATCH YOUR LANGUAGE!!
Hey, relax Satan. Don't get all worked up. You're gonna give yourself an ulcer again.
Mrph mprph!!
What? What do you mean you don't belong here? Relax guy, hell is for children.
Mrph mprhm mm rmph!
A deal? You wanna make a deal with the devil. Well sure, deals are mounds o' fun.
Mph rmph rm rmph rmph rm!
Oh, you want out of hell, huh?
Mrph?
I wouldn't bullshit you kid! Snacky Smores are now available in stores everywhere! No biggie!
MMMMMPHPHPHPHP!!!!!
Fallen one... We have such sights to show you!
I am Satan. I am your God, now.
MPH RM!!!
What are you doing?! Get on with your misery!
Mph rmph rm rmph rm?
Him? I don't know... He can be nice... sometimes.
Mph rmph rm rmph rm.
What do you mean?! I could leave him if I wanted to!
Mph rm. Rmph rm rmph rm.
Mph rmph rm!
Get everyone in hell ready. When the blood of Terrance and Phillip spills, the day is ours!
Mph mph.
Then move out of the way.
Very well, then. I will put an end to the war as your wish and make everything as it was before the war started. But you Kenny, must remain dead.
Mph rm.
Purpre mama!
Be quiet, Ike! The movie's starting!
Donkey raping shit eater.
Doky maping she deeder!!!
Ber dada!
Get out of here Ike, you're too young for this stuff!
Papa mama simi.
You stay up here in the attic, Ike. Don't make any noises or nothing, okay?
Uhh...
Goodnight, Ike, we're all going to bed.
Yes I am!
Baba mama!
Who are you, kid?
My name is Gregory. I have been Wendy's countercousin for some time.
Viva la Resistance.
Oh no, it's that kid.
This is the place
May I?
What?
WE'RE going! WE started La Resistance to save Terrance and Phillip! We're going!
This will be very dangerous... Are you quite sure?
Hello there, children!!
Hey, Chef.
How would like some Salisbury Steak with buttered noodles?
What's the secret to making a woman happy?
Oh that's easy, you just gotta find the clitoris.
Huh?
Oops, I guess you haven't got that far in your anatomy class, huh?
No, what does that mean, find the clitoris?
Chef, what does it mean that we're at war?
It's... It's not good children.
We can't, we're on a hunger strike.
A hunger strike? For what?
Ha! Is the Pope Catholic?
I don't know.
Children, I know ALL there is to know about women.
What's going on, Chef?
Something big, children.
Look at that!
It's that vchip thing that's inside you, Eric! The polarity must have been reversed by the electric chair!
What?
Young man, you will tell Peincipal Victoria THIS INSTANT where you heard all these horrible phrases!
You bastards.
This is it! The time for action is NOW!! <b>Something must be done! This is like a spreading rash! They're pulling out our children's brains and filling them with trash! Can't you see what this is leading to? A world of smut and sex and poo! I believe the good fight has begun! Something must be done!</b>
What was that word, young man!?
Oh, he said rim job. It's when someone licks your ass for
I know what it is!
Kyle?!
Eric?
Ugh... You guys, seriously... I'm having Cheesy Poof withdrawal...
Mkay, kids from all over the State have been brought here, because you all share the same problem. Uh, young man... Let's start with you.
You've got a stupid accent too.
Eric, that is not appropriate.
What? Fuck French people. Fuck 'em in the ear.
Mkay, you see, children. This is exactly what I'm talking about. We have to change the way you think.
Mkay.
God Damn it your mom is a bitch, Kyle.
So you see, the point and the theme of the film is kept intact. And of course, the MPAA didn't cut out any of the graphic violence. What did you think?
Oh man, I'm gonna need a cherry pie to get the taste of ass out of my mouth from that piece of shit movie.
Eric, you're not watching your mouth!
You get me Cheesy Poofs with the delightful cheddar crunch, and I'll watch my fucking mouth!
Eric!!!! You need to be rehabilitated. Help me to help you!
Help yourself prickfuck!
I am not a prickfuck, mkay? You little asshole!
Thank God, that sucked ass.
Uh, except for you Eric. I'm afraid you need to work more on not saying the F word and the N word.
The N word?
Norwegian Ass Raper.
Oh yeah.
The rest of you are graduated. You can go home today.
Wendy, Mkay, if you want to start getting political, I'll throw your skinny little butt right back into rehab. Mkay?
HOW THE FUCK CAN YOU NOT GRADUATE ME?! DOES THAT MEAN I HAVE TO STAY HERE?!
No, Eric... I'm afraid it's phase two for you...
Look, Eric it's your little friends.
What the hell are you guys doing here?
Eric! Don't talk to Ms. Brovlofski that way!
But mom! I'm not fucking addicted to fucking bad language! I don't have a fucking problem!
Goodnight, honey.
Mom... When is the war gonna be over?
I don't know honey. Soon we hope. You want it to end quickly, huh?
Oh, I don't care, I was just asking cuz all my favorite TV shows have been replaced by news and it's pissing me off.
Oh.
Mom...
Yes, hon?
If you went down on a horse... You'd tell me, right?
Sure, hon. Goodnight.
Eric?! Eric, what is it?!
I saw him!! I saw Kenny!!
Oh you poor dear. You've been through so much...
I bet him he couldn't set himself on fire and now he's all pissed off!! AGH! I can't say pissed off?! AGH!!
Mph rmpmh rm.
No way.
Mph rmph rm!!
No you can't Kenny!
Mph rm rmph!!
Okay Kenny, I'll bet you a HUNDRED DOLLARS you can't light a fart on fire!
Mph mm!
GO AWAY, KENNY! IT'S NOT MY GOSH DARN FAULT!
Mph rmprmmh rm!!
I don't have proofs of purchases from Snacky Smores, Kenny!
MPH RMPH RMPH RMPH RM!!!
AGAGAH!!
Mrphmmmph!!!
Okay. Not.
Aw, screw it. It probably isn't all that good anyway.
Cartman! What the hell are you talking about?! You LOVE Terrance and Philiip!
Yeah, but the animation's all crappy  it probably can't sustain itself over ninety minutes.
How come Terrance and Phillip are so weird looking?
Cuz, dummy they're Canadian, just like Ike!
Oh.
Dude, that movie was fucking sweet!
You bet your fucking ass it was!
Suck my balls.
Yeah, <b>Shut your fucking face, Unclefucka!!</b>
Dude, how can you hate the environment?
'Cuz, dude, it's all sticky and airy and fragile and stuff. I fucking hate it.
I can't dude! We all took a sacred oath, and swore ourselves to secrecy!
It was the Terrance and Phllip movie!
Man, that movie gets better every time I see it!
Yeah, but you know what? That whole part about lighting farts is bullshit. You can't do that.
I bet him he couldn't do it... I bet him a hundred dollars!
Come on, Cartman. It's not your fault.
No, I know. I'm just fucking STOKED I don't have to pay him!
Oh.
I can't believe he's dead.
Yeah, I'm having total deja vu right now. Like this has all happened before...
Who the hell made up that law?!
You can't do this!! Have you ever HAD Cheesy Poofs? They're a taste sensation with a delightful cheddar crunch.
But they fucking didn't do anything wrong!
Yeah! And what rim job expert went and outlawed Cheesy Poofs!?
WHAT THE HELL WAS THAT?!
Dude, they cut out 92 minutes!
Hey Cartman.
What?
You know, me and Stan were just talking about what a fat fucking hunk o' fat fuck you are.
Oh yeah?! Well you're a monkeyshit
This is all cause of your mom, Kyle. She's such a bitch AGH!! I mean  she's such a... meanie.
And she's getting worse...
Come on, just get to the message board!
I'm trying, I can't find a Canadian server... I've got to break into the main frame...
Bingo. Okay, here we go... Want to help Terrance and Phillip? Meet us for a meeting at Gladdy's barn tomorrow night...
Tell 'em we'll have pie and punch.
We're not gonna have pie and punch!
More people will come if they think there'll be pie and punch!
pie and punch... This is Top Secret. The password is...
You're late, Cartman!
I had to ride my bike here. My behind is killing me.
Your behind?
I have to say 'behind'! I get shocked if I say 'ass OW!!!
Did you bring the pie and punch?
No you guys... Something happened... You guys wanna hear something creepy? I don't think Kenny is dead.
I know Cartman, I know. I see Kenny every day.
YOU DO?!
Sure, dude. On the face of every child, on the smile of every baby...
You guys! Seriously! You guys!
What Cartman?!
Kenny! I saw Kenny again!
Cartman?!
Whoops.
CARTMAN!
WAGAGAHGHGH!! YOU GUYS!!! SERIOUSLY!!!
Dude, this is seriously lame. I didn't know we were gonna get all dirty and stuff.
Sheet!
Cartman, over zere, is the electrical box. You must sneak over zere and shut it off before I return with Terrance and Phillip or the alarms will sound and I will be shot full of holes. Got it?
Okay.
You MUST shut off the power, this is VERY IMPORTANT do you understa
I HEARD YOU THE FIRST TIME! I'M NOT LOU FERIGNO FOR PETE'S SAKE!
Ze alarms! Zey went off!
Yeah... That was my bad, sorry.
Dude!
What? Fuck you guys, I wanna get out of here.
Come on, you guys... We have to THINK!
About what?
About Cheesy Poofs, dumbass! This whole thing has gone too far!
To free Terrance and Phillip.
But you guys... It's Salisbury steak.
Chef, do you know anything about women?
What is this?
They're burning all the Canadian stuff cause of the war.
That book wasn't Canadian!
no Cheesy Poofs.
No Cheesy Poofs... What the hell is happening?
<b>And my mom has become so busy that she's raising heck and ignoring me I agree that there is now a battle to be won! Something must be done!</b>
But what are we going to do against this entire army?
Is it Cartman's mom?
Very funny!
Oh, son of a bitch! AAGHGH!! I mean, son of a biscuit!
Maybe THAT'S who your father is, Cartman!
What?
I saw him last night!
Fuck that! AGAGH!!
We're going... Let's run through the plan!!
Holy shit Cartman! What was that?!
How the fuck should I know!!
Well, anyway... Today children, our friend Mr. Hat is going to tell us all about the environment.
That's right, Mr. Garrison. The environment is what surrounds us. It is what we live and breathe.
I hate the environment.
Eric! Did you just say the "F" word?
Fragile?
Why the fuck not?
Eric!
Fuckin' a right.
How would you like to go to the principal's office?
How would you like to gargle rat jiz?
WHAT DID YOU SAY?!?!
I said 
Patient 453 here has been fitted with the new vchip...
My head hurts.
Don't worry about that. Now, I want you to say 'Doggy.'
Doggy.
Notice that nothing happens. Now say 'Montana.'
Montana.
Good. Now 'Pillow'.
Pillow.
Alright, now I want you to say 'horsefucker.'
OW!! That HURT GOD DAMMI
OW!! YOU CAN'T DO THIS TO ME!! THIS ISN'T FAIR!!! YOU SONS A BITCHE
Success!! Our device works perfectly! We will begin mass production immediately!
Oh but OF COURSE children are going to see it!!
Uh, can I finish? Can I finish? ...The fact is that we Canadians are quite surprised by your outrage
YOU JUST DON'T CARE!
Can I finish? Hello? Can I finish? ...The United States has graphic images of violence on television all the time, what is that one show? COPS? And car crashes caught on tape? We can't believe that a movie with some foul language and fart jokes would piss you off so much.
BECAUSE IT'S EVIL!!
Can I finish? Please? Can I finish? ... ... Uh... Okay, I'm finished.
What?
The Canadians are just mad that we mothers here in South Park have the chutzpah to stand up to them! Like it or not, Mr. Canadian Minister, OUR children are now safe from your Canadian smut!
What...
Behold my glory.
What... are you?
I am the clitoris.
The clitoris?! I DID IT!! I FOUND THE CLITORIS!!
Stan, your friends need you. They are in trouble and you must help them.
Wait, you're supposed to tell me how to get Wendy to like me.
There are more important matters right now...
NO WAY, DUDE! I'VE LOOKED ALL OVER FOR YOU, AND NOW YOU HAVE TO TELL ME HOW TO GET WENDY TO LIKE ME!!
Dude, she's eight years old, just get her some ice cream or something.
Of COURSE!! Ice cream!!
Now go, your friends are in danger... The USO show is a mile east of here, just over that ridge. The clitoris has spoken.
Howya do, Rebecca. I sorta been expectin' you this mornin'.
I wanta see Nathan.
I wish I could, Rebecca, but I can't let you.
I don't understand that, Sheriff Young.
It's the rules and I gotta follow 'em. No visitin' 'cept holidays and Sunday  and no womenfolk anytime.
You mean to tell me I can't see my own husband?
That's the way they do things here in Landsdown. I just follow orders.
I got to see my husband, Sheriff Young!
I'd like to help you, Rebecca. But all that would do, is git us both in trouble.
Will they give him a trial?
Shore thing  next week sometime, and as soon as I git the day, I'll ride out and let you know 'bout it.
You gotta lowlife job, mister sheriff!
No, I ain't got no word yet, Rebecca. I went to the courthouse yesterday to see 'bout it, but they just won't tell me nothin' about what labor camp Nathan was sent to. I'm sorry, Rebecca.
It's a shame, Reverend. It's a damn shame.
I hope you don't take to bitterness, Sister Morgan. I tell you like I tell all the women in this church who got the same trouble you got. No matter what the trial or what the misery is, I tell 'em to stay with God.
Yeah, he'll crawl into my bed tonight, lie close to my body and keep me warm  and rectify the evil in the men who live over us in this valley.
It's not that simple, Sister Rebecca  the Lord works in mysterious ways  we come into this life with nothin' and we'll leave it with nothing.
Is that a blessing, Reverend?
Night, son!
And don't wake up Josie Mae and Earl!
I bet you could use a hot cup of coffee, Nathan Lee.
I shore could, Miss Rebecca.
The boy done went into my walnuts! I skin my fingers to the bone to pick two pounds that's worth almost nothing at the commissary and he done took almost half of what I pick!
The boy is hungry, Rebecca.
We been through these offseasons before  we made it.
What we make it to? The next season to work ourselves to death, share croppin' for ol' man Howard, so he can get richer and we can't even eat when the croppin' time is done?
Good mornin', Nathan.
Mornin'...
You ready to eat?
I'll wait till after the children.
How's the weather out there?
Little chilly.
Hope it don't freeze out our baseball game today!
If there ever was a devil in this county, Ike, you is it!
Ike, you could make a song outta that!
The most important thing is that you're home! We was gonna have cold eatin' tonight, 'cause of the heat, but now, I'm goin' to cook!
Well, let's get to it, Miss Rebecca,'cause I been waitin' too long a time for your good cookin'!
What did he want?
To invite you to his house  the two of you could just sit under the shade tree, drink ice cold whiskey, and just shoot the breeze!
Did you tell 'im I was too busy for that kinda stuff?
Well, let's get to work!
You sure you feel up to it, Nathan?
Yeah. I feel real up to it right now. Come on, David Lee, you and me'll do the loading.
This done happen before. It ain't nothin'  I just have to wait a minute or two.
Is there something I can do to help you?
Yeah, just stay where you is...
There, you see?
I see, all right  It's time for us to get out of this field.
I just got out here!
It's lunchtime, and I wanna have a talk with you, Nathan Lee. Come on, children...
Where you goin'!?
To the commissary to get this boy some clothes! I'm gon' get everybody somethin'!
But, Nathan
Don't tell me nothin' 'bout what we owe ol' man Howard! I'll do the owing, and let him worry 'bout the collecting! Come on, David Lee!
Rebecca, you jest the one I wanta see.
I brought these walnuts to trade.
That's one dollar an' twenty cents.
I wanta get some things.
I hope it ain't a lot,'cause I can't give you no more credit till the croppin' season gits back, that is if Na
I didn't say nothin' 'bout credit, Mr. Howard.
Whatcha wanta order?
I need some nutmeg, flour, eggs, sugar, and...
Dammit, I'm talkin' to you, woman! I gotta farm to think about and I need answers.
The season is a long way off, Mr. Howard, and by that time, Nathan oughta be home. If he ain't, believe me  the children and me  we will grow the crops. We have to because we owe you all that money  Mr. Howard.
Hi ya, Rebecca...
Tired.
Somebody told me Nathan was back. How is he?
Why don't you pay him a visit, Mr. Howard? He'll tell you all about it.
Don't take all day at that table, David Lee.
Mama, when kin me and Earl go to school with David Lee?
Maybe soon
Mama, why did they take Daddy away?
Because he cared so damn much about you and me, child.
Is he gon' be gone long?
Might be...
Mama, what was we laughin' for?
At the way you ask funny questions, Josie Mae!
If they heard me sing like this up North I'd be richer than the man I sharecrop for.
And if they saw me pitch the way I did today  they'd hire me just to strike out Babe Ruth!
You know, one time by mistake I went into a white church down in Row County and to this day I don't know how'n the devil I got outta that church alive.
They probly thought you was crazy.
I guess so  but I went home and did me some praying to the Lord. I said, Lord, I went into this white church down in Row and all I want you to tell me is how I ever got outta there in one piece.
What did the Lord tell you, Ike?
He said, I don't know, Ike  you doin' better'n me, I been tryin' to git in there for 200 years and ain't make it yet!
Hi ya doin' there, Ike?
Any time it's Saturday and I don't hafta do any work, I'm doin' okay!
Whatcha got there?
Seems this piece of mail came to Mr. Howard's place this mornin' and he had me to bring it over here.
Well, let me have it.
Don't belong to you! It's for the little important man, here!
We brought your laundry, Miss Boatwright.
Come in, children.
This is for your mama's work, and here's something for the three of you.
Thank you, Miss Boatwright.
It's about the Three Musketeers.
Thank you, Miss Boatwright.
When you read it we'll talk about it...
Yes mam... We gotta go, Miss Boatwright.. .
Tell Rebecca I said 'hi', now...
Would you like to have a cool drink, David?
No, thank you  I gotta go do some work in the field today.
I'll find out where your daddy is for you.
Thank you, Miss Boatwright!
Don't mention this to anyone! You hear me, David!
You know where my father is, don't you, Miss Boatwright?
No, he was wrong, David, I didn't find out.
But I saw you  you looked in there, and you found out, Miss Boatwright.
If I tell you I didn't, David, that's what I mean.
But, Miss Boatwright, you
I don't know a damn thing, now stop bothering me about it!
Come, I'll take you home.
I'll walk...
Don't pout now, David, it's a long trip.
I'm used to it.
Hello, David...
Hi, Mrs. Boatwright... I'm sorry 'bout the way I acted the other day, Miss Boatwright.
David Lee, it's time for you to get to bed!
Goodnight.
Mama, there's hot meat on the stove!
That's right!
Where did it come from, Mama?
Where all meat come from  now git yourself washed up and be snappy about it  you got six miles ahead of you to that school.
Ready to go, Mama!
Tuck that shirt in, David Lee.
You got two shirts on?
Yes mam...
When you get outta that school, you come right on back home, y'all gon' have to take this laundry work I done for Miss Boatwright today.
Who's winning, Mama?
Nobody yet  it's all tied up.
What do they do in the white churches, Mama?
Same as we  they pray.
Who is they?
Children, come here...
Don't take my Daddy! Please don't take my Daddy!
David, come back here!
'Bye, Mama...
'Bye, son  I won't be gone long.
Did you see Daddy?
No, son. We havta wait 'til the holiday comes  anyway, they won't let womenfolk see their men no time.
Can I go when the holiday comes?
You sure can, son...
Any sign of Sounder?
No mam  I looked all over.
I think maybe he was scraped on the head by that shot. I don't think he's dead  just gone somewhere to heal himself.
What is it, David Lee?
Listen, Mama...
Poor creature...
He'll be all right, Mama. I'll make him all right.
Mama! Mama! Miss Boatwright, say she gon' help me find where Daddy is!
Good! But you don't have to tell the whole valley 'bout it! You'll get that woman in trouble!
Can't sleep?
No, ma'am... Mama, I wanted Mrs. Boatwright to find out where Daddy is, so me and Sounder can go see him.
So did I. I figured when the time got right, we could all take a day or two and walk up there, but it's not the kind of long trip for a child to take alone.
I can do it, Mama  you know that. In the Bible stories you read to us, everybody's always goin' on a long journey. Jacob goes into a strange land where his uncle is and he don't even know where he lives, but he finds him. Everybody finds what they supposed to find.
But you'll be away from home for days  what will you do when the dark comes, where will you sleep? I can't send you away from here like that!
Mama, don't I always do what you say  every time I go to the fields to plant the corn, to Miss Boatwright's and the woods  you tell me what to do and I do it, and you don't worry.
No, I don't and I oughtn't not to after the way you've taken over since they took him away  and I would like for you to see 'im so you can come back and tell me about 'im. The field's all planted, so I guess I can spare you for a little while. When do you wanta leave?
Can I go day after tomorrow?
Yes, son. You better get back to bed.
Good night, Mama...
Good night...
I wish you wouldn't take the dog with you, David  he's likely to be a burden to you.
I got to, Mama. I know Daddy wants to see him.
Here's your food  now you go straight to that place  if you need to rest, go into a church or railroad station  but don't go into nobody's house, you hear me?
Yes, mam...
Ask your daddy to give you some word about when he'll be comin' home  and tell 'im we love him.
I cut it on some glass and we got lost, Mama.
Did you find your father?
Didn't see 'im, Mama. The other men there say they didn't know Daddy.
I guess they musta sent 'im to another camp.
What's that you carryin'?
Some books Miss Johnson gave me.
Who's Miss Johnson?
Miss Johnson is a teacher, and...
So when I left, she gave me these books.
Miss Johnson must be a real kindly lady.
She is, Mama... When the fall comes, she wants me to come to her school.
How can you do that? You don't live anywhere near that school.
She says I can come live with her while school goin' on, and come back home every time there ain't no school.
But who's gonna help me here with the house and in the field?
What's wrong with him, David?
It's the heat.
It's when the heat is so bad, dogs go crazy.
He won't go mad  he's just lookin' for a cooler spot.
What's wrong, Nathan?
He can't get up, Mama!
Be good and be smart, little boy.
Yes, ma'm...
What's in there, David!?
Sausage and hambones!
He eats all right  his throat ain't scarred.
Then why don't he holler like he usta?
He will... Come on, git down and act like a possum.
I don't look like no possum!
Act like one!
I guess I'll havta work harder to git him back like he usta be.
Why don't you try and git you a new dog?
Naw, I'm carryin' it!
Thank you, Josie Mae.
David, you never cease to amaze me at how good you are in taking care of my garden.
My father taught me...
Miss Boatwright 
Yes, David...
Will you help me to find out what camp they sent my father to?
See you tomorrow, Miss Boatwright.
David!
Yes, ma'am...?
What's your daddy's name?
Nathan Lee Morgan...
Mister, can you visit anybody here?
Gotta wait 'til visitin' days.
When's that?
Sunday...
Do you know my daddy, Nathan Lee Morgan?
Never heard of 'im. We gotta lotta men here...
There ain't no possums in this woods tonight, Daddy.
Looks that way, son. Guess the cold done drove most of 'em down to the big water country  but if there's one left out here  we gotta find him.
It's cold, Daddy!
Here, put my jacket over you.
If anybody's to blame, it's me  I oughta nailed him when I took that shot.
It was too dark, Daddy.
Yeah. We better git back to house now.
Yes, sir...
You oughta be tired, too, Sounder. That possum shore whipped the hell outta you tonight!
He beat you, too, Daddy, and you had a big ol' shootin' rifle.
Boy, you don't make funny with your daddy like that.
David Lee...
Yes, sir...
You had a rough time out there tonight  so you stay home from that school tomorrow.
I wanna go  the trip don't bother me none.
You learnin' anything at that school?
Yes, sir  I learn to write a little bit, and I can read a lot
Readin' must be somethin' powerful, huh, son?
Yes, sir...
When the fall comes in these parts, the Night moon runs away like a rabbit  you could stay out here lookin' all night, and not see a thing out yonder.
We goin' huntin' again tomorrow ?
Yep. I guess you must wonder why though, what with the luck we havin', but like I always say
"You lose some of the time, what you always go afta, but you lose all the time what you don't go afta!"
Now who says I didn't lay my mark on you, boy!
Well, looka here...
Hi, Daddy...
Hi to you, son...
Mama is outside with Josie Mae and Earl.
They is!? It shore is good to see you, boy!
We didn't find Sounder yet.
He'll show up one day.
Do you think he's dead, Daddy?
Naww  he'll come back to you, soon as his wounds heal. This cake shore is tasty, son.
It's a shame they won't let 'em come in here. If I had the strength I'd knock down these damn walls  if I could just git my arms 'round your mama right now  is they on this side of us, son?
I think so...
Can you say what camp they gon' send you to, Daddy?
I don't know, son  they won't tell us things like that  but I don't want y'all to come here no more.
Why, Daddy; you won't be here?
Just do like I tell you  I'll get word to you through the visitin' preacher.
What's wrong with your leg, Daddy?
Got it hurt in a dynamite blast, son. The dirty dogs had no more use for me, so they let me have time off my sentence, and let me come home.
Son, that was some trip you went on...
Where was you, Daddy?
That musta been afta they sent me to this place call Clayburn. That was the hardest workin' camp they sent me to. The work was so hard, you had to look for somethin' to laugh about to keep from feelin' the whole pain in your body. Like one time, it was in the middle of the day, and there weren't no sun  you hear that?
Where did the sun go to, Daddy?
Into the clouds and behind the mountains.
What happened afta that?
The rains started to come, and the prisoners were scared to run 'cause they had to wait for guards to round us up, and tell us when to move  but we didn't mind the rain comin' 'cause it meant we would git a little rest  we just stood there, watchin' the guards and they weapons get wet, and that made us all feel kinda good for a minute. I was laughin' all over inside  a minute, that's all, but what a minute it was!
And me too, son! You shore done got to be such a big little man!
We goin' huntin' again, Daddy !?
You bet we is!
I cleaned and oiled all your stuff while you was gone...
Goodnight, Daddy...
Goodnight to you, son...
Daddy, you home now... that's all I want  I don't want nothin' else...
Come here, son...
Mornin', son...
Mornin', Daddy...
Where's everybody?
They gone to the field...
Guess I can't just lay here, then.
You feel alright today, Daddy?
Great, son  not like wakin' up in jail. For a minute or two, didn't quite know where I was, but when I saw your face lookin down on me, made me know right away the day was gonna be a good one, and it all belonged to me!
Daddy, when is we goin' huntin'?
Soon  but it won't be too much huntin' you'll be doin','cordin' to a good little story your mama told me last night  you'll be goin' away from here, won't you?
I'm real proud of how you helped your mama to keep this place goin', David Lee.
Thank you, Daddy...
Wheeew! This is some hard work, but it beats goin' to jail.
You won't be goin' to jail again, will you, Daddy?
No, son  they'd have to kill me before I'd let 'em do that to me again!
You hurt, Daddy!?
No, no, I'm all right, son... This damn leg just won't act right no more!
From Miss Johnson 
Well, ain't you gon' open and read it for us?
Dear David, if you are coming to school here, be sure to bring some warm clothes. The school term will begin September 8th, but it would be good for you to be here by the 4th or 5th of the month. I do hope everything is fine and you will be here. Give my "hello" to your family. Yours truly, Miss Camille Johnson...
September 4  how far away is that?
You just came back home, Daddy. I don't wanna leave right now  I wanna stay home and be with you.
And I wanta be with you, too, but this school is somethin' that's good for you  somethin you need, like good air to breathe, and I want you to have it, boy, and that's the way it's gonna be!
But, Daddy, you need me here to help you in the field  Daddy, your leg is hurt  you can't work like you used to. Who's gonna help you!? Who's gonna do the work, Daddy?!
Let me tell you somethin', boy! I don't care if both of my legs was cut off! I can do more work in that field, than you could in a hundred years!
I won't go, Daddy! I won't go!
Now wait justa minute! You don't tell me what you ain't gonna do! I tell you! I say, you goin' to that school, you goin'! You hear me!
I love you, son! Don't ever think I don't love you! We gon' get to be friends?
Yes, Daddy! Yes!
You know somethin', Daddy?
What's that, son?
I'm gon' miss this ol' raggedy place.
I can't do it, Rita  that's the policy here on colored prisoners, and I ain't about to change it, not even for a friend like you.
Charlie, just because a man and his family are colored, you
Now look, Rita, I don't make the rules  you puttin' yourself on a limb, comin' here, askin' me to do a thing like this. And I be damn if I'm going to jeopardize my job because you are in love with a little colored boy!
But, Charlie 
NO! NO, NO!
I see you found what you was lookin' for.
I did look, Charlie, but I
No buts, Rita!
Charlie, you have no legal right not to let this boy know where his father is! You hear that, you and this whole damn court house; what you are doing is wrong!
Don't tell me about what's wrong. You come into my office as a friend and steal city files! I could have you arrested for that  and if you give out that information to anybody, that's exactly what I'm going to do  and I'll tell everybody in this town how you got the information and who you got it for! You won't have a friend left in this county to bring you a piece of candy!
You would do that, wouldn't you?
You getting the point, Mrs. Boatwright.
:THE STRANGE ENDINGS OF NATURE THEY HAVE SEEN, MAY GIVE THE WORLD NEW POINTS OF VIEW AND MAKE THEIR LOVING, LIVING, AND DOING PRECIOUS TO ALL HUMAN...
:The night in the woods with his father and SOUNDER. The shouting and laughter after the baseball game 
:...HEARTS. AND TO THEMSELVES IN THESE DAYS THAT TRY THEIR SOULS...
:HE, JOSIE and EARL, running and playing in the field.
:...THE CHANCE TO SOAR IN THE DIM BLUE AIR ABOVE SMOKE IS TO THEIR...
:His visit with his father at the County Jail house 
:...FINER SPIRITS BOON AND GUERDON FOR WHAT THEY LOSE ON EARTH BY BEING BLACK.
:His mother, with her head thrown back, her eyes aglitter and laughing.
You know that the class is going to challenge your story, don't you, Clarence?
Yes, Miss Johnson...
Go on...
Me and my little sister, went down to the water hole, last Saturday
How was your sister after you pulled her out of the water?
She was dirty and wet...
Clarence, would you tell us a story that was not true, after telling us it was?
No, Miss Johnson...
Can you swim?
Yes mam...
I just wanta wash my hand. It's got blood where I hurt it.
You don't live around here, do you?
No, mam... I come from way back there. Me and my dog was tryin' to find my daddy and we got lost.
Is he here in Borderdale?
I don't know, he's in a prison camp.
Here, you put your hand under the water and I'll pump for you.
My name is Camille  Camille Johnson and I'm the Supervisor of this school. What's your name?
David Lee Morgan. My dog's name is Sounder. That feels better.
Let me see it...
You keep looking around, David. Don't you go to school?
Sometime, but not like this.
It's a good thing your hand did not become infected  how did you cut it like this?
Me and Sounder went to this prison camp to see my Daddy and the police guard runs us away and I fell on some glass.
Did your mother know you were going to see your father?
Uh huh...
That does it...
Thank you, Miss Johnson.
I don't live far from here. You and your dog can come home with me and have yourself a hot meal and then we'll talk about how to get you back home.
You got a pretty house, Miss Johnson!
I try...
And you say all them people is dead now?
That's right
They lived a long time ago  before you and I were born.
Where is Africa, Miss Johnson?
Here it is, right here.
That's where we come from first?
That's where we came from first.
And the other people you told me 'bout, they is all colored folk?
Colored.
Don't you teach in your school 'bout folk who ain't dead?
Sure
Here's one by a man that's very much alive.
What's his name?
Dr. William E. B. Dubois.
What he talk 'bout?
Why don't you sit and I'll read you something he said.
You're a friendly lady, Miss Johnson.
And you're a tired little boy. I'll make up the cot and you must get some sleep.
What about Sounder?
He'll get his place too  now off with your clothes and into bed.
Now don't you think it's time you told me all about yourself?
I have a mother and her name is Rebecca  My father's name is Nathan Lee Morgan, and...
Well, how did you like the class, David?
It was the best thing I ever been to, Miss Johnson!
... So me and Sounder, ran right by the men that was the prisoners, and crawled under the fence! That's when I cut my hand on the glass. It hurt like mad! But I kept runnin', and then I didn't feel no more hurtin' till I stopped runnin'! Why was that, Miss Johnson?
Because all you could think of was getting away from the guard.
Oh... . You right, that's all that was worryin' me right then...
You know, that was a good thing you did for Clarence, in class today. I believed his story, but I was afraid the other children wouldn't...
He was real scared nobody would believe him  I could tell, even when he first stood up.
You could? How?
I been like that myself, when I thought nobody was gonna believe me... You wanna hear another story?!
Not now, David, it's time for bed. You have a long trip ahead of you in the morning...
What are you looking at, out there? There's nothing to see.
My daddy likes to look into the dark, even when there ain't nothin to see  it's what you hear he say.
You think about your father a lot, don't you?
Yes mam...
Well, you shouldn't worry about him too much, David.
What do I tell my mama when I get home? I didn't find him and that's what I wanted to do.
But you did all you could, David. Not many little boys could've gone on such a journey as you did.
But where is my daddy!?
I can't answer that for you  but it's no fault of your own that you don't know where your father is now. You tell me what you did that kept you from finding your father. Come on, tell me...
Nothin'...
And so you did your job, right?
Yes, mam...
Whewwww! You sure keep my mind jumping, boy!
What do that mean?
Means you keep me using my head, and that's good!
Im guessing MacCallum, 18 years. Neat, with a waterback.
Is there any other way to take it?
I am now, sir.
At least somebodys using the damn thing. I was gonna fix her up but we took one trip and the kids fought so much, we never launched her again.
What is it you do again?
What would you say if I told you I was a member of an elite task force employed to safeguard our nations most precious resource: your daughter.
What do you say to that?
I say that feeling compelled to do the opposite of your parents is as enslaving as emulating them.
Best thing about being a dad is when your kid starts kicking your ass
and The ass of The man who adores her.
Hey, Sigmund, you think you could rustle up the bride and tell her to join the party?
Will do.
Im worried. Amys not good at drinking. She gets sooo drunk sooo fast. Does free alcohol get you less drunk or more drunker? Is it drunker or drunkerer?
Just drunk enough.
Not yet...
...but its getting there. 
I thought you were living in San Francisco. Or was it Nepal?
Close. Sydney. Turns out, I missed the rain.
I always wondered what happened with us.
I havent thought about that in years.
Shes drunk. er than me. But I didnt really dump you, did I?
Hard.
Dad!
Hi, kiddo.
Meet Nick.
Thats not true. We checked for leaks a few years back. Good morning.
Ahoy!
So whyd you let him go?
Its complicated, Dad.
Oh, well, then. It probably wont work out.
Yeah.
Then for once in your life, do something for yourself.
Hey, Sal.
I heard you were back in town, kitty cat. Youre here for the highland flings, I bet.
I get all the glamour jobs.
The one I made for you is the cherries. You hang onto it or give it back?
Give it back? Are you nuts?
You pawned it.
Not exactly. I wear it. On my right hand. And only rarely.
You want I nut him in the boat?
Yes? No. What? Save the patter for the tourists.
You want me to let him in?
Of course, dont be silly.
Kat Ellis! We live two hundred miles away from each other but I have to fly all the way to London to see you. You havent visited me once in D.C. Where the hell have you been? I have gynecologists that call more often.
You have more than one gynecologist?
Sure. Youve got to play them against each other. Otherwise they think youre easy.
You didnt have to do that.
I wasnt saving you from him. I was saving you from yourself.
Whats he do anyway?
Therapist.
Like fifteen.
Dad made me go over and apologize the next day.
Oh, no. He told you.
You knew?
Im so sorry.
Hi. Hey.
Kat.
You think we look like were trying too hard.
Exactly. I want us to look like we fit, but not like were trying too hard to look like we fit. Its welcome cocktails, not prom. With this level of matchymatchy, we should be drinking peach schnapps under a bleacher somewhere.
What color are my shoes?
You have feet?
Dont patronize me. Theyve clearly been at this a while.
Youre funny.
Yeah, but I feel like crap. And if you feel like crap, its way better to look hot while youre doing it.
Mission accomplished.
Really? Dont get too attached.
Mmm.
Mmm, nice dress? Or mmm Gorgeous, I was insane to let you go!
Both.
You know, they say you can tell everything you need to know about a person from the way they act when theyre naked.
I dont do naked. My sister? She does naked.
The Knicks game? We both wanted the last hot dog?
Oh, yeah. So we split it. You know, as in share. People do that.
Well, he looks miserable. What were you talking about?
Love.
Jeffrey knows love like he knows macram.
He was pretty drunk, but I think hes still crazy about you.
Of course he is. Im here with my new man. I love it! Your magics already working. Let the suffering begin.
What did he say exactly? I mean, you dont think he wants me back?
I dont know.
What does your gut say?
Youre too good for him.
No, count it, anyway.
Why?
Im compulsive and weird?
Six thousand, right?
On the nose. I tell you what, because youre so cute, Ill take care of our incidentals.
How does it feel to get that much money just for being you?
Great, with the occasional stabs of shame. Now, listen, this covers the weekend, but as we discussed, if you want to be intimate, we talk money before anything happens.
That wont be an issue, believe me. I find the idea of sex for money morally repugnant. No offense.
Its okay. Hell, Ive never paid for it. But please dont feel like you have to explain yourself to me.
You quitting?
Im desperate to start but I dont have an addictive personality. Except for approval. That, I cant get enough of.
Who are they?
Graham Russell and Russell Hitchcock.
What?
Its cute.
What is?
You stand on your tiptoes.
I do?
Have you ever done anything like this before?
A weekend?
A wedding.
Not the way youre thinking. The women wanted me there for support. You can understand that.
I think thats disgusting.
Not you. Youre not disgusting. Youre lovely. Just the idea that theyd bring an escort. I mean, a stranger who, um, didnt...who never.... I mean, someones dead.
Thats right. Imagine facing it alone.
Sorry. Im a little nervous. I never thought something like this would happen to me.
This happened to you?
Well, happen, in the sense that I picked up the phone, tracked you down, flew you here and gave you six grand out of my 401K.
How did you know that was me?
I have a friend at the magazine.
Your friend guaranteed my anonymity.
If it makes you feel any better, to get your number, I had to cough up two roundtrip tickets to Amsterdam and a case of miniBaileys.
Would you grab my shampoo?
Shampoo, got it!
The real story is that my mother was a hippie. And a stripper. She was insanely inappropriate with me. She used to wash her lingerie in my bathwater. While I was still in the bath.
Oh, no.
Yeah. As an adult, I needed to find some way to experience intimacy and sex, but with rules that couldnt be violated.
You shit!
I have a different story for every woman who asks. I look at her and figure out what she needs to hear to feel okay about being with me.
And you thought Id respond to the hippie stripper with no boundaries?
Admit it. You were disturbed, but ultimately moved.
So...what was I...oh, yeah. Do you honestly think that I want to be single and miserable? That I want to be obsessed with some asshole who led me on for years then  out of the blue  shattered my heart.
First of all, its never out of the blue. And second of all
Yes.
What?!
When youre ready to let go, to be unsingle and unmiserable, you will. Until then....
Are you asking me if Im gay for pay?
I guess so.
What do you think?
Theres a guy on 81st and Madison. You get your results in 24 hours. Do you make your lovers get tested before you sleep with them?
My sixthgrade science project was entitled, Love Hurts: The Heartbreak of Human Papillomavirus. Trust me, Im careful.
I love that youre asking questions, but do you really want to get into all of this?
This is awkward for me. Talking about it makes me feel better.
Dont stop asking questions, okay?
Okay.
I swear. I dont have a signature move.
Oh, come on. Youre like the Yoda of escorts.
Subtle?
I disappear. Its not about me.
Its hard to explain.
Show me.
Come on.
Ive got this bad taste in my mouth. What is it? I think its the words: morally repugnant.
Are you sure?
We kissed. Made out a little. Then you passed out.
Is this for last night?
Of course not. How...how could it be? Nothing happened.
If I was going to charge you, I would have told you beforehand. I thought I explained that.
Dont they have a limit at those machines?
Not if you take an advance on your credit card.
So youre telling me. If something had happened last night...it would have cost me fourteen hundred dollars? Thats a down payment on a Ford Focus!
Not dollars. Pounds.
And what if I didnt want you to...to do that to me?
No, no. The three hundred is for you doing it to me.
What?
Believe me, if anything had happened, that would have been one of the highlights. For you.
But nothing did.
Yup. Thats why you get to keep your money.
Hello, goodbye, I want you, I hate you. Its all just words. None of it means anything. What matters is what you do. You either stay put or you walk away. If you look back, youre not walking away!
Oh, cut the crap!
I just hate seeing you so stuck.
He was about to unstick me! I paid you to help me get closure.
You paid me for a lot of reasons. Closure wasnt one of them.
Im sorry I was such a bitch. I really appreciate your doing this.
Its my job.
You have had girlfriends?
Sure, but its never easy. They say theyre okay with it, and they are...for a while. Then one day, theyre not.
When I said Id never done a wedding before, I didnt say that no one ever asked. I just never said yes.
So, whyd you say yes to me?
There was something in your voice on the phone that day.
Desperation?
What would you do if you weren't an escort?
Make out with you for free.
What would you do if you stopped worrying about what other people think?
Spontaneously combust?
Yeah. You?
Yeah.
Fourteen and hes hoodwinked by a an erector set?
I didnt say he was worth it.
And thats when he peed in his pants? After the tart?
He bled a bunch, but no, there was no peeing.
So whats with the nickname?
Besides, you hired me for my discretion.
Youve always got that to hide behind, dont you? Its just business!
Yeah! For all I know, come Monday morning, well go back to the real world and...and youll be hiring me for your best friend!
You let me make a fool of myself! You lied to me! I dont know why that surprises me because lying is what you do. Its your job. Its who you are. How would you even know if something were real?
Youre judging me?! Oh, thats a good one. Youre lying to me, youre lying to your family, and youre lying to yourself. But youre going to stand there and point a finger at me? The man you hired to pretend to be your boyfriend?
Youre right. I was so desperate to make everyone believe I was happy that I spent six grand on a lie. And after all that? The only one who ended up falling for it was me.
Go ahead, Kat. Hate me. You were running out of steam on the whole Jeffrey thing. Maybe now youll be able to hold onto this just long enough to ruin your next relationship.
Hi.
Hi.
I should go.
What?! No, no. You cant
I have to. Im the best man.
Nice speech. I thought it was touching... and funny.
Thank you.
Why, Jeffrey. Hello.
Hello, Katmandu.
Seeing you again....
Yeah?
Hey, Kat.
Hey, yourself. I see youve met my ex.
Hey, you!
Let me guess. Amy presumed Id forget the rings. I think Im her least favorite person. You know, I am sorry.
Maybe not her least... Theres always
So, tell me, hows unmarried life?
I have regrets.
Whoa, Jeffrey. Slow down. You and me, were the past. Im not sure if you noticed, but Im here with someone else.
Kat, we must talk. This guy, theres something not quite right.
Its called character. God, youre predictable.
Is that why you brought him? Because of me.
Kat, wait. I dont want you hating me. Weve never had this talk. You know how crap I am at this.
Um, news flash: I dont give a shit.
Kat, stop it. You do. You cant even look me in the eye. You went back to the States when we split up.
That was a long time ago.
It was. And it took your sister getting married to get you back here.
So, whats your point?
I should have told you why I broke up with you. I was a coward. You deserve to know.
You were so good to me. I swear I never meant to hurt you. We were together what, five years?
Seven if you count the onandoff years. Which I do.
Right. Seven. Christ, thats a long time, isnt it?
Not for a dog.
Well, we had a lot of good years, but then...
Is this supposed to be an apology?
Its not supposed to be anything, Kat. Its just my rather feeble attempt to.... Oh, I dont know. You see, I thought I could deny my feelings
Youre not even listening.
When we were together I was too here, now Im not here enough.
Bollocks, Im sorry. I had no idea this would be so difficult.
Relax. Take a breath and just say it. Its no big deal. I promise.
Brilliant.
Well, it was a big deal. As late as...yesterday. Or this morning. But not anymore.
Its the past. Its nothing but ghosts. So just get it off your chest, then lets go back upstairs and eat some tiramisu.
I slept with your sister.
Im sorry?
I shagged Amy. Two years ago. Thats why I ended it. And then, after you left, sod it, we kept at it like rabbits until we both realized it was absolutely mad. And, you know, morally wrong. Then there was that one other time. And that was it.
Hey.
Oh, hello.
Ah, a philosopher.
Shrink, actually.
Crikey.
What?
Nothing, nothing.
No, tell me.
You Yanks and your therapy. Its great. Its all a bit too touchyfeely for me.
Hey, man.
Sorry, can you give us a moment?
No, I cant. Were late for a dance lesson. I guess youll have to finish up later.
Whats his problem?
What?
Theres something about him thats just a bit odd.
Other than, hes shagging your exgirlfriend?
No, thats not it.
Remember when we went hiking in the lake district and Amy was wearing that little bikini thing.
No.
It was before you started going out. We had lunch at that inn on the lake.
Oh, yes. Right. The Rat and Parrot.
And Kat was fully clothed.
But, somehow, it was Kats arse that was stung by nettles. And you rubbed it with a dandelion leaf.
Thats when I realized I wanted to be a doctor.
Oh, shut up. Youre an optician.
Lasik surgeon, actually.
I didnt deserve her back then.
And you do now?
Nothing.
Doesnt look like nothing.
Whos ever heard of dance lessons for a wedding, honestly?
Um, just about everyone.
You are taking the piss?
Just because some slags been paid for, doesnt mean youve got to...you know.
Its been my experience that the people who hire a prostitute, need a prostitute. You did the right thing.
I think I love you, mate. How do you know so much about so much?
Im a hooker.
I thought you said you were crap.
I had to say something to get you here.
Fair enough, but Im stepping on toes here and youre waltzing around like...
Ill just check into a hotel.
Dont be ridiculous. Its late and the place is empty. Just take my car.
I look like a total wanker, dont I?
Yeah, kind of.
You heading to the train station?
I figured you could pick up your car tomorrow.
Yeah.
Wheres Nick sleeping?
Why, with you.
My mother has a rule about men and women sleeping in the same room without a ring in the picture. She thinks its
Huh?
Im not as square as my daughter thinks.
Moms refining her strategy for DDay.
Im sure General Eisenhower never had to master the finer points of the seating chart and centerpieces. Oh, and tomorrow afternoon you are carpooling to the country with the FletcherWootens.
Sir, yes, sir!
Id be happy to. Youre welcome.
Oh, dont be that way.
I blame Tony PeePants!
Oh, no. She tells this story at every major holiday.
Why should this be any different? Besides, I have to initiate Nick into the family.
She blames Tony PeePants Pinterello for everything. The fall of the British Empire, the Cold War, the internet.
It was just after we moved here. My little girls got in a fight over Tony PeePants and they havent made up since.
Im an American and in America, people sue. So to prevent a lawsuit, I baked a tart. And I dont bake.
So Dad rang the bell and when Tony PeePants opened the door, I threw the tart at him and popped his stitches.
Whats going on with you two?
I was pretty hard on her last night. And now shes getting married.
Theres a reason I always tell that Tony PeePants story, you know.
Trust me. This is bigger than Tony PeePants.
Before Tony, you and your sister were best friends. I couldnt split you up. If your sister ate the spinach, you ate the spinach. If you threw up.
Mom, please.
Anyway, when that boy came over, it was the first time you ever did anything without her. And Amy wasnt just jealous...she was sad and lonely. She missed you.
She did?
So she flirted with Tony, and you got mad and sent him away. Who did that leave? You and Amy. Reunited.
Youd better get going. My parents will be round to cart you off to the country.
Whatever you do, dont mention Italy. Or politics. Or baby buggies. Or Edith Piaf.
Your probably best off pretending youre asleep.
Say something. Please.
I knew you were still seeing someone else when we finally got together. I never in a million years would have dreamt it was Jeffrey.
Does Kat know?
Jeffrey told her last night.
Last night?
Fred Astaire and whats her face!
Its not me. I swear. Its her. Shes magic.
Sorry to interrupt. Your dad sent me.
What for?
To make sure youre okay.
You know all that if these walls could talk stuff? Do you believe it? That a place has a memory?
Actually, I do.
It was such a long time ago.
Still
If Ed ever found out....
Or Kat....
And she wonders why I swim to the bottom of a Lemondrop every time I see her.
You know what I love about all this?
Theres finally a reason for the whole world to revolve around you?
Exactly! Todays my day. Tomorrow will be my day. And the day after that? My day.
Perfect. All ginny.
Except its Scotch.
But Im not taking your name, buster. Im a feminist! I need icey! Mr. husbandman, get me more icey!
Did Kat tell you she dumped you because of your funky breath?
Did Amy tell you she keeps her Homecoming tiara by the bed?
Christ, Amy.
Oh, shut up and be happy. Its always this or that. Youre never happy, you frownyfaced Grumplestilskin.
Drunk isnt the same thing as happy, Amy.
Why dont you get my half sister her seventh hole?
Bacardi 151.
I dont think I can go through with this.
Pub Golf?
The wedding. I am so, so bad! I dont think I should be allowed to get married.
Do you want to come in for a minute? We could talk about
When I freaked out at the pub? That was nothing, just nerves. Dont worry about it.
But I do. I will. Youre my sister.
God, Kat! Please. Dont be nice to me. I can take anything right now but you being nice to me.
What? Why? What do you mean?
I should get going.
Are you sure youre okay?
Im fine. I promise.
We were eating and puking together in harmony until one day, Tony walked me home from school. He was my first boyfriend. I was fourteen.
So Tony PeePants starts ignoring Kat. He wanted to play with me.
You practically bribed him with your erector set.
Hey.
Hey.
You know what? Im not having this conversation right now.
Sure, disappear. Weve been walking away our whole lives.
Wow. You look beautiful.
Yeah. Most important day of my life. Whatever. Listen, I chose you to be my Maid of Honor for a lot of reasons: I love you, youre my favorite, and only, halfsister, blah blah blah. But the main reason I picked you is because youve been so miserable for the past few years, I knew you wouldnt outshine me. But here it is, my big day. My big day. And something doesnt feel right. Maybe it was that pep talk you gave me last night, I dont know, but your misery just isnt working for me anymore.
Hello, Charlie. Long time no see.
What is it, Spats? What do you want here?
Just dropped in to pay my respects.
You don't owe me no nothing.
Oh, I wouldn't say that. You were nice enough to recommend my mortuary to some of your friends...
I don't know what you're talking about.
So now I got all those coffins on my hands  and I hate to see them go to waste.
Honest, Spats. I had nothing to do with it.
Too bad, Charlie. You would have had three eights. Goodbye, Charlie!
No, Spats  no, no, no  NO!
Hi, Spats. We was laying eight to one you wouldn't show.
Why wouldn't I?
We thought you was all broken up about Toothpick Charlie.
Well, we all got to go sometime.
Yeah. You never know who's going to be next. Okay, Spats. Report to the Sergeant atArms.
What for?
Orders from Little Bonaparte.
All right, Charlie  this the joint?
Yes, sir.
And who runs it?
I already told you.
Refresh my memory.
Spats Colombo.
That's very refreshing. Now what's the password?
I come to Grandma's funeral. Here's your admission card.
Thanks, Charlie.
If you want a ringside table, tell 'em you're one of the pall bearers.
Okay, Charlie.
Look, Chief  I better blow now, because if Spats Colombo sees me, it's Goodbye Charlie.
Goodbye, Charlie.
Okay, Spats  the services are over. Lets go.
Go where?
A little country club we run for retired bootleggers. I'm gonna put your name up for membership.
I never join nothin'.
You'll like it there. I'll have the prison tailor fit you with a pair of special spats  striped!
Big joke. Who's the rap this time?
Embalming people with coffee  eightysix proof.
Me? I'm just a customer here.
Come on, Spats  we know you own this joint. Mozarella is just fronting for you.
Mozarella? Never heard of him.
We got different information.
From who? Toothpick Charlie, maybe?
Toothpick Charlie? Never heard of him.
You're wasting the taxpayers' money.
If you want to, you can call your lawyer.
These are my lawyers  all Harvard men.
Well, Spats Colombo  if I were saw one.
Hello, copper. What brings you down to Florida?
I heard you operalovers were having a little rally  so I thought I better be around in case anybody decides to sing.
Big joke!
Say, Maestro  where were you at three o'clock on St. Valentine's Day?
Me? I was at Rigoletto.
What's his first name? And where does he live?
That's an opera, you ignoramus.
Where did they play it  in a garage on Clark Street?
Clark Street? Never heard of it.
Ever hear of the DeLuxe French Cleaners on Wabash Avenue?
Why?
Because the day after the shooting you sent in a pair of spats  they had blood on them.
I cut myself shaving.
You shave with your spats on?
I sleep with my spats on.
Quit kidding. You did that vulcanizing job on Toothpick Charlie  and we know it.
You and who else?
Me and those two witnesses whom your lawyers have been looking for all over Chicago.
You boys know anything about any garage  or any witnesses?
What'll it be, sir?
Booze.
Sorry, sir, we only serve coffee.
Coffee?
Scotch coffee, Canadian coffee, sourmash coffee...
Make is Scotch. A demitasse. With a little soda on the side.
Haven't you got another pew  not so close to the band? How about that one?
Sorry, sir. That's reserved for members of the immediate family.
Better bring the check now  in case the joint gets raided.
Who's going to raid a funeral?
Some people got no respect for the dead.
Good evening, sir.
I come to the old lady's funeral.
I don't believe I've seen you at any of our services before.
That's because I've been on the wagon.
PLEASE!
Where are they holding the wake? I'm supposed to be one of the pallbearers.
Show the gentleman to the chapel  pew number three.
Tell what?
If they catch me once more, they'll boot me out of the band. You the replacement for the bass and the sax?
Yes. I come from a very musical family. My mother is a piano teacher and my father was a conductor.
Where did he conduct?
On the Baltimore and Ohio.
Oh.
I play the ukulele. And I sing too.
Running away? From what?
Don't get me started on that. Want a drink? It's bourbon.
We understand.
All the girls drink  but I'm the one that gets caught. That's the story of my life. I always get the fuzzy end of the lollipop.
Put it here.
Sugar, you're going to get yourself into a lot of trouble.
Better keep a lookout.
If Bienstock catches you again  What's the matter with you, anyway?
I'm not very bright, I guess.
I wouldn't say that. Careless, maybe.
No, just dumb. If I had any brains, I wouldn't be on this crummy train with this crummy girls' band.
Then why did you take this job?
I used to sing with male bands. But I can't afford it any more.
Afford it?
Have you ever been with a male band?
Me?
That's what I'm running away from. I worked with six different ones in the last two years. Oh, brother!
Rough?
I'll say.
You can't trust those guys.
I can't trust myself. The moment I'd start with a new band  bingo!
Bingo?
You see, I have this thing about saxophone players.
Really?
Especially tenor sax. I don't know what it is, but they just curdle me. All they have to do is play eight bars of "Come to Me My Melancholy Baby"  and my spine turns to custard, and I get goosepimply all over  and I come to them.
That so?
Every time!
You know  I play tenor sax.
But you're a girl, thank goodness.
Yeah.
That's why I joined this band. Safety first. Anything to get away from those bums.
Yeah.
You don't know what they're like. You fall for them and you love 'em  you think it's going to be the biggest thing since the Graf Zeppelin  and the next thing you know they're borrowing money from you and spending it on other dames and betting on the horses 
You don't say?
Then one morning you wake up and the saxophone is gone and the guy is gone, and all that's left behind is a pair of old socks and a tube of toothpaste, all squeezed out.
Men!
So you pull yourself together and you go on to the next job, and the next saxophone player, and it's the same thing all over again. See what I mean?  not very bright.
Brains aren't everything.
I can tell you one thing  it's not going to happen to me again. Ever. I'm tired of getting the fuzzy end of the lollipop.
You know I'm going to be twentyfive in June?
You are?
That's a quarter of a century. Makes a girl think.
About what?
About the future. You know  like a husband? That's why I'm glad we're going to Florida.
What's in Florida?
Millionaires. Flocks of them. They all go south for the winter. Like birds.
Going to catch yourself a rich bird?
Oh, I don't care how rich he is  as long as he has a yacht and his own private railroad car and his own toothpaste.
You're entitled.
Maybe you'll meet one too, Josephine.
Yeah. With money like Rockefeller, and shoulders like Johnny Weismuller 
I want mine to wear glasses.
Glasses?
Men who wear glasses are so much more gentle and sweet and helpless. Haven't you ever noticed?
Well, now that you've mentioned it 
They get those weak eyes from reading  you know, all those long columns of tiny figures in the Wall Street Journal.
Happy days.
I hope this time you wind up with the sweet end of the lollipop.
What's happened?
Search me. I mean  I'll see.
Okay, Sugar  all clear. You better go back to bed.
I might as well stay in there. I won't be able to sleep anyway.
Why not?
Bienstock. He snores to beat the band. We cut cards to see who sleeps over him, and I always lose. Wouldn't you know?
Want to switch berths with me?
Would you mind terribly?
Not at all.
Thanks, honey.
Good night, Sugar.
Well, there they are  more millionaires than you can shake a stick at.
I'll bet there isn't one of them under seventyfive.
Seventyfive. That's threequarters of a century. Makes a girl think.
I wish they'd put us in the same room.
So do I. But don't worry  we'll be seeing a lot of each other.
414  that's the same room number I had in Cincinnati  my last time around with a male band. What a heel he was.
Saxophone player?
What else? And was I ever crazy about him. Two in the morning, he sent me down for knackwurst and potato salad  they were out of potato salad, so I brought coleslaw  so he threw it right in my face.
Forget it, Sugar, will you? Forget about saxophone players. You're going to meet a millionaire  a young one.
What makes you so sure?
Just my feminine intuition.
Wait a minute, Daphne. You haven't got a bathing suit.
She doesn't need one. I don't have one either.
Oh, I'm terribly sorry.
My fault.
You're not hurt, are you?
I don't think so.
I wish you'd make sure.
Why?
Because usually, when people find out who I am, they get themselves a wheel chair and a shyster lawyer, and sue me for a quarter of a million dollars.
Well, don't worry. I won't sue you  no matter who you are.
Thank you.
Who are you?
Now, really 
Haven't I seen you somewhere before?
Not very likely.
Are you staying at the hotel?
Not at all.
Your face is familiar.
Possible you saw it in a newspaper  or magazine  Vanity Fair 
That must be it.
Would you mind moving just a little? You're blocking my view.
Your view of what?
They run up a redandwhite flag on the yacht when it's time for cocktails.
You have a yacht?
Which one is yours  the big one?
Certainly not. with all that unrest in the world, I don't think anybody should have a yacht that sleeps more than twelve.
I quite agree. Tell me, who runs up that flat  your wife?
No, my flag steward.
And who mixes the cocktails  your wife?
No, my cocktail steward. Look, if you're interested in whether I'm married or not 
I'm not interested at all.
Well, I'm not.
That's very interesting.
How's the stock market?
Up, up, up.
I'll bet just while we were talking, you made like a hundred thousand dollars.
Could be. Do you play the market?
No  the ukulele. And I sing.
For your own amusement?
Well  a group of us are appearing at the hotel. Sweet Sue and Her Society Syncopators.
You're society girls?
Oh, yes. Quite. You know  Vassar, Bryn Mawr  we're only doing this for a lark.
Syncopators  does that mean you play that fast music  jazz?
Yeah. Real hot.
Oh. Well, I guess some like it hot. But personally, I prefer classical music.
So do I. as a matter of fact, I spent three years at the Sheboygan Conservatory of Music.
Good school! And your family doesn't object to your career?
They do indeed. Daddy threatened to cut me off without a cent, but I don't care. It was such a bore  comingout parties, cotillions 
 Inauguration balls 
 opening of the Opera 
 riding to hounds 
 and always the same Four Hundred.
You know, it's amazing we never ran into each other before. I'm sure I would have remembered anybody as attractive as you.
You're very kind. I'll bet you're also very gentle  and helpless 
I beg your pardon?
You see, I have this theory about men with glasses.
What theory?
Maybe I'll tell you when I know you a little better. What are you doing tonight?
Tonight?
I thought you might like to come to the hotel and hear us play.
I'd like to  but it may be rather difficult.
Why?
I only come ashore twice a day  when the tide goes out.
Oh?
It's on the account of the shells. That's my hobby.
You collect shells?
Yes. So did my father and my grandfather  we've all had this passion for shells  that's why we named the oil company after it.
Shell Oil?
Please  no names. Just call me Junior.
Would you mind moving along, please?
Yes, you're in the way. He's waiting for a signal from his yacht.
Well, I guess I'd better go 
It's been delightful meeting you both.
And you will come to hear us tonight?
If it's at all possible 
Josephine.
Oh, I didn't hear you come in.
The most wonderful thing happened 
What?
Guess!
They repealed Prohibition?
One of whom?
Shell Oil, Junior. He's got millions  he's got glasses  and he's got a yacht.
You don't say!
Well, he's young and handsome and a bachelor  and he's a real gentleman  not one of these grabbers.
Maybe you'd better go after him  if you don't want to lose him.
Oh, I'm not going to let this one get away. He's so cute  collects shells.
Shells? Whatever for?
Anyway, you're going to meet him tonight.
I am?
Because he said he's coming to hear us play  maybe.
I guess he's not going to show up  it's give minutes to one  you suppose he forgot?
Well, you know how those millionaires are. These came for you.
For me? It's Shell Oil.
You heard her  yes.
Oh, Josephine  just imagine  me, Sugar Kowalczyk, from Sandusky, Ohio, on a millionaire's yacht. If my mother could only see me now 
Been waiting long?
It's not how long you wait  it's who you're waiting for.
Thank you. And thank you for the flowers.
I wanted them to fly down some orchids from our greenhouse but all of Long Island is fogged in.
It's the thought that counts.
I seem to be out of gas.
It's sort of funny  you being out of gas  I mean, Shell Oil and everything 
I just got this motorboat  it's an experimental model.
Looks like they're on the wrong track.
Do you mind riding backwards? It may take a little longer 
It's not how long it takes  it's who's taking you.
It looked so small from the beach  but when you're on it, it's more like a cruiser  or a destroyer.
Just regulation size. We have three like this.
Three?
Mother keeps hers in Southampton  and Dad took his to Venezuela  the company is laying a new pipe line.
My dad is more interested in railroads. Baltimore and Ohio. Which is the port and which is the starboard?
Well, that depends  on whether you're coming or going  I mean, normally the aft is on the other side of the stern  and that's the bridge  so you can get from one side of the boat to the other  how about a glass of champagne?
Love it. Which way?
Yes  now let's see  where do you suppose the steward set it up?
Oh, you have an upstairs and a downstairs.
Yes  that's our hurricane cellar.
Oh  in here.
Of course. On Thursdays, they always serve me in the small salon.
It's exquisite  like a floating mansion.
It's all right for a bachelor.
What a beautiful fish.
Caught him off Cape Hatteras.
What is it?
Oh  a member of the herring family.
A herring? Isn't it amazing how they get those big fish into those little glass jars?
They shrink when they're marinated.
Champagne?
I don't mind if I do.
Down the hatch  as we say at sea.
Bon voyage.
Look at all that silverware.
Trophies. You know  skeetshooing, dogbreeding, water polo...
Water polo  isn't that terribly dangerous?
I'll say. I had two ponies drowned under me.
Where's your shell collection?
Yea, of course. Now where could they have put it? On Thursdays, I'm sort of lost around here.
What's on Thursdays?
It's the crews' night off.
You mean we're alone on the boat?
Completely.
You know, I've never been completely alone with a man before  in the middle of the night  in the middle of the ocean.
Oh, it's perfectly safe. We're well anchored  the ship is in shipshape  and the Coast Guard promised to call me if there are any icebergs around.
It's not the icebergs. But there are certain men who would try to take advantage of a situation like this.
You're flattering me.
Well, of course, I'm sure you're a gentleman.
Oh, it's not that. It's just that I'm  harmless.
Harmless  how?
Well, I don't know how to put it  but I have this thing about girls.
What thing?
They just sort of leave me cold.
You mean  like frigid?
It's more like a mental block. When I'm with girls, it does nothing to me.
Have you tried?
Have I? I'm trying all the time.
See? Nothing.
Nothing at all?
Complete washout.
That makes me feel just awful.
Oh, it's not your fault. It's just that every now and then Mother Nature throws somebody a dirty curve. Something goes wrong inside.
You mean you can't fall in love?
Not anymore. I was in love once  but I'd rather not talk about it. How about a little cold pheasant?
What happened?
I don't want to bore you.
Oh, you couldn't possibly.
Well, it was my freshman year at Princeton  there was this girl  her name was Nellie  her father was vicepresident of Hupmobile  she wore glasses, too. That summer we spent our vacation at the Grand Canyon  we were standing on the highest ledge, watching the sunset  suddenly we had an impulse to kiss  I took off my glasses  I took a step toward her  she took a step toward me 
Oh, no!
Yes. Eight hours later they brought her up by mule  I gave her three transfusions  we had the same blood type  Type O  it was too late.
Talk about sad.
Ever since then  numb  no feelings. Like my heart was shot full of novocaine.
You poor, poor boy.
Yes  all the money in the world  but what good is it? Mint sauce or cranberries?
How can you think about food at a time like this?
What else is there for me?
Is it that hopeless?
My family did everything they could  hired the most beautiful French upstairs maids  got a special tutor to read me all the books that were banned in Boston  imported a whole troupe of Balinese dancers with bells on their ankles and those long fingernails  what a waste of money!
Have you ever tried American girls?
Why?
Is that anything?
Thanks just the same.
Maybe if you saw a good doctor...
I have. Spent six months in Vienna with Professor Freud  flat on my back   then there were the Mayo Brothers  and injections and hypnosis and mineral baths  if I weren't such a coward, I'd kill myself.
Don't talk like that. I'm sure there must be some girl some place that could 
If I ever found a girl that could  I'd marry her like that.
Would you do me a favor?
What is it?
I may not be Dr. Freud or a Mayo Brother or one of those French upstairs girls  but could I take another crack at it?
All right  if you insist.
Anything this time?
I'm afraid not. Terribly sorry.
Would you like a little more champagne? And maybe if we had some music   how do you dim these lights?
Look, it's terribly sweet of you to want to help out  but it's no use. I think the light switch is over there   and that's the radio. It's like taking somebody to a concert when he's tone deaf.
You're not giving yourself a chance. Don't fight it. Relax.
It's like smoking without inhaling.
So inhale!
Well  ?
I'm not quite sure. Try it again.
I got a funny sensation in my toes  like somebody was barbecuing them over a slow flame.
Lets throw another log on the fire.
I think you're on the right track.
I must be  because your glasses are beginning to steam up.
I never knew it could be like this.
Thank you.
They told me I was caputt  finished  washed up  and now you're making a chump out of all those experts.
Mineral baths  now really!
Where did you learn to kiss like that?
Oh, you know  Junior League  charity bazaars  I used to sell kisses for the Milk Fund.
Good night.
Good morning.
How much do I owe the Milk Fund so far?
Eight hundred and fifty thousand dollars.
Let's make it an even million.
Oh, no. I'm off that stuff  for good.
Did you have a nice time?
Nice? It was suicidally beautiful.
Gee, I wish I'd been there.
I'm going to see him again tonight  and every night  I think he's going to propose to me  as soon as he gets up his nerve.
Really?
From a rich millionaire.
That's wonderful. Poor Josephine.
Me?
Daphne has a beau  I have a beau  if we could only find somebody for you.
That's funny  I never slept better. And I had the most wonderful dream. I was still on the yacht, and the anchor broke loose  and we drifted for days and days  you were the captain and I was the crew  I kept a lookout for icebergs, and I sorted your shells, and mixed your cocktails, and wiped the steam off your glasses  and when I woke up, I felt like swimming right back to you.
Yes. Now about our date for tonight...
I'll meet you on the pier again  right after the show.
I'm afraid not. I can't make it tonight.
Tomorrow night?
Not tomorrow, either. You see, I have to leave  something unexpected came up  I'm sailing right away.
Where to? South America? Oh. That is unexpected.
You see, we have those oil interests in Venezuela  and I just got a cable from Dad  the board of directors decided on a merger.
A merger? How long will you be gone?
Quite a while. As a matter of fact, I'm not coming back at all.
You're not?
It's all rather complicated  what we call high finance  but it so happens that the president of the Venezuelan syndicate has a daughter, and 
Oh  that kind of a merger. Is she young? Pretty?
According to our tax advisers, she's only soso. But  that's the way the oil gushes. A man in my position has a certain responsibility to the stockholders  all those little people who invest their life savings 
Oh, of course. I understand. At least, I think I do.
I knew you would.
I only wish there were something I could do for you.
But you have. You've given me all that inside information  first thing tomorrow I'm going to call my broker and have him buy fifty thousand shares of Venezuelan oil.
Smart move. Oh, by the way  did you get my flowers? You know, those orchids from my greenhouse  the fog finally lifted over Long Island, and they flew them down this morning.
Yes, they're here. Oh  white orchids. Would you believe it  I haven't had white orchids since I was a debutante. What's this?
What's what? Oh, that. just a little going away present.
Real diamonds. They must be worth their weight in gold. Are you always this generous?
Not always. But I want you to know I'm very grateful for what you did for me.
I didn't do anything. It just happened.
Oh. The navigator just came in  we're ready to cast off.
Well, anchors aweigh, you have a bon voyage. And if you need an orchestra to play at your wedding, we'll be through here in a couple of weeks.
Goodbye, my darling.
What's the matter, Sugar?
I don't know. All of a sudden, I'm thirsty.
Daphne 
He was the first nice guy I ever met in my life  and the only one who ever gave me anything.
You'll forget him, Sugar.
How can I? No matter where I go, there'll always be a Shell station on the corner. I'll bring this back when it's empty.
Sugar! What do you think you're doing?
I told you  I'm not very bright.
You don't want me, Sugar  I'm a liar and a phony  a saxophone player  one of those nogoodnicks you've been running away from 
I know. Every time!
Do yourself a favor  go back where the millionaires are  the sweet end of the lollipop  not the cole slaw in the face and the old socks and the squeezedout tube of toothpaste 
That's right  pour it on. Talk me out of it.
Well, here we are.
You two from the Poliakoff Agency?
Yes, we're the new girls.
Hey, Sheboygan  you two  what was your last job  playing square dances?
No  funerals.
Would you mind rejoining the living? Goose it up a little.
We got it secondhand.
All right  lets take it from the top. And put a little heat under it, will you?
We got time off for good behavior.
There are two things I will not put up with during working hours. One is liquor  and the other one is men.
Hey, Sig  can we talk to you?
Nellie, get me long distance. What is it?
What are you  a couple of comedians? Get out of here! Long distance? Get me the William Morris Agency in New York.
You need a bass and a sax, don't you?
The instruments are right, but you are not. I want to speak to Mr. Morris.
The wrong shape? You looking for hunchbacks or something?
It's not the backs that worry me.
What kind of band is this, anyway?
You got to be under twentyfive 
No, we couldn't!
William Morris!
Look, if you boys want to pick up a little money tonight  At the University of Illinois they are having  you should excuse the expression  a St. Valentine's dance.
We'll take it!
You got it. It's six dollars a man. Be on the campus in Urbana at eight o'clock 
Anything today?
Oh, it's you! You got a lot of nerve 
Thank you.
Now look, Nellie  if it's about last Saturday night  I can explain everything.
What a heel! I spend four dollars to get my hair marcelled, I buy me a new negligee, I bake him a great big pizza pie...  and where were you?
Oh?
Nellie baby, I'll make it up to you.
You're making it up pretty good so far.
The minute we get a job, I'm going to take you out to the swellest restaurant 
What's the job?
It's three weeks in Florida 
Please, Jerry  that's no way to talk. Nellie baby  what are you doing tonight?
Why?
Because I got some plans 
I'm not doing anything. I just thought I'd go home and have some cold pizza 
And you'll be in all evening?
Yes, Joe.
Good! Then you won't be needing your car.
My car? Why, you 
Don't I know you two from somewhere?
We're just a couple of musicians  we come to pick up a car  Nellie Weinmeyer's car  there's a dance tonight  Come on, Jerry.
Wait a minute. Where do you think you're going?
To Urbana. It's a hundred miles.
You ain't going nowhere.
I don't like no witnesses.
We won't breathe a word.
You won't breathe nothing'  not even air.
I don't mean to be forward  but ain't I had the pleasure of meeting you two broads before?
Oh, no!
This is her roommate. Daphne can't talk right now. Is it anything urgent?
Well, it is to me. Will you give her a message? I'd like her to have a little supper with me on my yacht after the show tonight.
Got it. Supper  yacht  after the show  I'll tell her. Your yacht?
The New Caledonia. That's the name of it. The Old Caledonia went down during a wild party off Cape Hatteras. But tell her not to worry  this is going to be a quiet little midnight snack  just the two of us.
Just the two of you? What about the crew?
Oh, that's all taken care of. I'm giving them shore leave. We'll have a little cold pheasant  and champagne  and I checked with the Coast Guard  there'll be a full moon tonight  oh, and tell her I got a new batch of Rudy Vallee records 
That's good thinking. Daphne's a pushover for him.
Just a moment, miss  May I?
Help yourself.
I am Osgood Fielding the Third.
I am Cinderella the Second.
If there is one thing I admire, it's a girl with a shapely ankle.
Me too. Bye now.
Let me carry one of the instruments.
Thank you. Aren't you a sweetheart?
It certainly is delightful to have some young blood around here.
Personally, I'm Type O.
You know, I've always been fascinated by show business.
You don't say.
Yes, indeed. It's cost my family quite a bit of money.
You invest in shows?
No  it's showgirls. I've been married seven or eight times.
You're not sure?
Mama is keeping score. Frankly, she's getting rather annoyed with me
I'm not surprised.
So this year, when George White's Scandals opened, she packed me off to Florida. Right now she thinks I'm out there on my yacht  deepsea fishing.
Well, pull in your reel, Mr. Fielding. You're barking up the wrong fish.
If I promise not to be a naughty boy  how about dinner tonight?
Sorry. I'll be on the bandstand.
Oh, of course. which of these instruments do you play?
Bull fiddle.
Fascinating. Do you use a bow or do you just pluck it?
Most of the time I slap it.
You must be quite a girl.
Wanna bet?
My last wife was an acrobatic dancer  you know, sort of a contortionist  she could smoke a cigarette while holding it between her toes  Zowie!  but Mama broke it up.
Why?
She doesn't approve of girls who smoke.
Goodbye, Mr. Fielding.
Goodbye?
This is where I get off.
Oh, you don't get off that easy.
Please. It won't happen again.
No, thank you. I'll walk.
But it's such a waste  a full moon  an empty yacht 
I'll throw up!
Well, then, why don't we go dancing? I know a little roadhouse, down the coast 
Well, I'll be  ! He does have a bicycle.
Who?
About that roadhouse 
They got a Cuban band that's the berries. Why don't we go there  blindfold the orchestra  and tango till dawn?
You know something, Mr. Fielding? You're dynamite!
You're a pretty hot little firecracker yourself.
Daphne...
Yes, Osgood?
You're leading again.
Sorry.
This is my friend Josephine  she's going to be a bridesmaid.
Pleased to meet you.
Come one!
Another bridesmaid?
Flower girl.
I called Mama  she was so happy she cried  she wants you to have her wedding gown  it's white lace.
Osgood  I can't get married in your mother's dress. She and I  we' not built the same way.
We can have it altered.
Oh, no you don't! Look, Osgood  I'm going to level with you. We can't get married at all.
Why not?
Well, to begin with, I'm not a natural blonde.
It doesn't matter.
And I smoke. I smoke all the time.
I don't care.
And I have a terrible past. For three years now, I've been living with a saxophone player.
I forgive you.
And I can never have children.
We'll adopt some.
But you don't understand! I'm a MAN!
Well  nobody's perfect.
It's about the Florida job.
The Florida job?
What's wrong with us?
You're the wrong shape. Goodbye.
We could pass for that.
 you got to be blonde 
We could dye our hair.
 and you got to be girls.
We could 
Yes, I'm holding on.
Wait a minute, Joe. Lets talk this over. Why couldn't we do it? Last year, when we played in that gypsy tearoom, we wore gold earrings. And you remember when you booked us with that Hawaiian band? Grass skirts!
What's with him  he drinks?
Hello, Mr. Morris? This is Poliakoff, in Chicago. Say, you wouldn't have a couple of girl musicians available? A sax player and a base?
Look, if William Morris doesn't come through 
Brand new.
This is our manager, Mr. Bienstock. I'm Sweet Sue.
Where did you girls play before?
Oh  here and there  and around.
How did those holes get there?
Oh  those. I don't know. Mice?
Didn't you girls say you went to a conservatory?
Yes. For a whole year.
I thought you said three years.
I was it.
What's the big idea?
I'm sorry. I was having a nightmare. Something I ate. I'm not at all well. See? Hot water bottle.
OH!
Terribly sorry.
That's all right. I was afraid it was Sweet Sue. You won't tell anybody, will you?
That's us. I'm Daphne  and this is Josephine.
I'm Sugar Cane.
She sings, too.
I don't really have much of a voice  but then it's not much of a band, either. I'm only with 'em because I'm running away.
We'll take a rain check.
I don't want you to think that I'm a drinker. I can stop any time I want to  only I don't want to. Especially when I'm blue.
Are my seams straight?
I'll say.
See you around, girls.
Good night, Sugar.
Good night, honey.
Honey  she called me honey.
Oh  Sugar!
I wanted to thank you for covering for me. You're a real pal.
It's nothing. I just think us girls should stick together.
If it hadn't been for you, they would have kicked me off the train. I'd be out there in the middle of nowhere, sitting on my ukulele.
It must be freezing outside. When I think of you  and your poor ukulele 
If there's anything I can do for you 
Oh, I can think of a million things 
And that's one of them.
Sssh. Sweet Sue.
I don't want her to know we're in cahoots.
We won't tell anybody  not even Josephine.
I'd better stay here till she goes back to sleep.
Stay as long as you'd like.
I'm not crowding you, am I?
No. It's nice and cozy.
When I was a little girl, on cold nights like this, I used to crawl into bed with my sister. We'd cuddle up under the covers, and pretend we were lost in a dark cave, and were trying to find out way out.
Interesting.
Anything wrong?
No, no.
Why you poor thing  you're trembling all over.
That's ridiculous.
And your head is hot.
That's ridiculous.
And you've got cold feet.
Isn't that ridiculous?
Let me warm them a little. There  isn't that better?
I'm a girl, I'm a girl, I'm a girl 
What did you say?
I'm a very sick girl.
Maybe I'd better go before I catch something.
I'm not that sick.
I have a very low resistance.
Look, Sugar, if you feel you're coming down with something, the best thing is a shot of whiskey.
You got some?
I know where to get some. Don't move.
You all right?
I'm fine.
How's the bottle?
Halffull.
I tell you  this is the only way to travel.
You better put on the lights. I can't see what I'm doing.
No  no lights. We don't want anyone to know we're having a party.
I may spill something.
So spill it. Spills, thrills, laughs, games  this may even turn out to be a surprise party.
What's the surprise?
Uhuh. Not yet.
When?
We better have a drink first.
Here. This'll put hair on your chest.
No fair guessing.
Who needs vermouth?
We have some bourbon  lets make Manhattans.
And bring the cocktail shaker.
Oh, Sugar. You're going to spoil my surprise.
Not you, Sugar.
I'm just going to get some ice.
I'll carry the instruments.
Thank you, Daphne.
Here you are, Sugar.
A bunch of us girls are going for a swim. Want to come along?
You betcha.
See? She doesn't have one either  You don't?
We'll rent some at the bathhouse. How about you, Josephine?
Oh, I have some suntan lotion.
She'll rub it on me  and I'll rub it on her  and we'll rub it on each other  bye.
What do you think you're doing?
Just a little trick I picked up in the elevator.
You know, Daphne  I had no idea you were such a big girl.
You should have seen me before I went on a diet.
I mean, your shoulders  and your arms 
That's from carrying around the bull fiddle.
But there's one thing I envy you for.
What's that?
You're so flatchested. Clothes hang so much better on you than they do on me.
Come on, Sugar  time to change for dinner.
Run along, Daphne  I'll catch up with you.
Okay.
I recognized him too  his picture was in Vanity Fair.
Vanity Fair?
His yacht?
It sleeps twelve. This is my friend Daphne. She's a Vassar girl.
I'm a what?
Or was it Bryn Mawr?
Oh, please do come. Don't disappoint us. It'll be such fun. And bring your yacht.
Come on, Daphne.
Well, I'll be  ! How about that guy?
Now look, Daphne  hands off  I saw him first.
Sugar, dear  let me give you some advice. If I were a girl  and I am  I'd watch my step.
If I'd been watching my step, I never would have met him. Wait till I tell Josephine.
Yeah  Josephine.
Will she be surprised. I just can't wait to see her face 
Neither can I. Come on  lets go up to her room and tell her  right now.
We don't have to run.
Oh yes, we do!
Josephine 
I guess she's not in here.
That's funny. Josie  I can't imagine where she can be.
Well, I'll come back later.
No, no, Sugar  wait. I have a feeling she's going to show up any minute.
Believe it or not  Josephine predicted the whole thing.
Yeah. This is one for Ripley.
Do you suppose she went out shopping?
That's it. Something tells me she's going to walk through that door in a whole new outfit.
Oh, come on  you can do better than that.
I met one of them.
What do you mean, maybe? I saw the way he looked at you. He'll be there for sure.
I hope so.
What do you think, Josephine? What does it say in your crystal ball?
No!
Yes. He wants me to have supper with him  on his yacht  he's going to pick me up at the pier.
No!
Yes.
I thought I heard voices  and I just had to talk to somebody. I don't feel like going to sleep.
I know what you need  a slug of bourbon.
Did he get fresh?
Of course not. As a matter of fact, it was just the other way around. You see he needs help.
What for?
And talk about elegant  you should see the yacht  candlelight  mint sauce and cranberries.
How did you get that bracelet?
You like it?
I always did.
Junior gave it to me. It must have at least thirty stones 
Thirtyfour.
He's going to South America to marry some other girl  that's what they call high finance.
That's what I call a louse! If I were you, Sugar, I'd throw that bracelet right back in his face.
Say, Joe  tonight's the night, isn't it?
I'll say.
I mean, we get paid tonight, don't we?
Yeah. Why?
Because I lost a filling in my back tooth. I gotta go to the dentist tomorrow.
Dentist? We been out of work for four months  and you want to blow your first week's pay on your teeth?
It's just a little inlay  it doesn't even have to be gold 
How can you be so selfish? We owe back rent  we're in four eightynine bucks to Moe's Delicatessen  we're being sued by three Chinese lawyers because our check bounced at the laundry  we've borrowed money from every girl in the line 
You're right, Joe.
Of course I am.
First thing tomorrow we're going to pay everybody a little something on account.
No we're not.
We're not?
First thing tomorrow we're going out to the dog track and put the whole bundle on Greased Lightning.
You're going to bet my money on a dog?
He's a shooin. I got the word from Max the waiter  his brotherinlaw is the electrician who wires the rabbit 
What are you giving me with the rabbit?
Look at those odds  ten to one. If he wins, we can pay everybody.
But suppose he loses?
What are you worried about? This job is going to last a long time.
But suppose it doesn't?
Jerryboy  why do you have to paint everything so black? Suppose you get hit by a truck? Suppose the stock market crashes?
Suppose Mary Pickford divorces Douglas Fairbanks?
Hey, Joe!
Suppose Lake Michigan overflows?
Don't look now  but the whole town is under water!
Well, that solves one problem. We don't have to worry about who to pay first.
Quiet  I'm thinking.
Of course, the landlady is going to lock us out  Moe said no more knackwurst on credit  and we can't borrow any more from the girls, because they're on their way to jail 
Shut up, will you? I wonder how much Sam the Bookie will give up for our overcoats?
Sam the Bookie? Nothing doing! You're not putting my overcoat on that dog!
I told you  it's a sure thing.
But we'll freeze  it's below zero  we'll catch pneumonia.
Look, stupid, he's ten to one. Tomorrow, we'll have twenty overcoats!
Greased Lightning! Why do I listen to you? I ought to have my head examined!
I thought you weren't talking to me.
Look at the bull fiddle  it's dressed warmer than I am.
Yeah  where were you?
With you.
With me?
Don't you remember? He has this bad tooth  it got impacted  the whole jaw swole up 
It did? Boy, did it ever!
So I had to rush him to the hospital and give him a transfusion... Right?
Right. We have the same blood type...
 Type O.
Nellie told us about it.
We're not too late, are we?
You mean it's a girls' band?
Yeah, that's what he means. Good old Nellie! I ought to wring her neck!
No. And he ain't been eating so good, either. He's got an empty stomach and it's gone to his head.
But, Joe  three weeks in Florida! We could borrow some clothes from the girls in the chorus 
You've flipped your wig!
Now you're talking! We pick up a couple of secondhand wigs  a little padding here and there  call ourselves Josephine and Geraldine 
Josephine and Geraldine! Come on!
All the way to Urbana  for a one night stand?
It's twelve bucks. We can get one of the overcoats out of hock.
It's a hundred miles, Joe  it's snowing  how are we going to get there?
I'll think of something. Don't crowd me.
We could've had three weeks in Florida  all expenses paid. Lying around in the sun  palm trees  frying fish...
Knock it off, will you?
We didn't see anything   did we?
No  nothing. Besides, it's none of our business if you guys want to knock each other off 
I think they got me.
They got the bullfiddle.
You don't see any blood?
Not yet. But if those guys catch us, there'll be blood all over. Type O.
Where are we running, Joe?
As far away as possible.
That's not far enough. You don't know those guys! But they know us. Every hood in Chicago will be looking for us 
You going to call the police?
The police? We'd never live to testify. Not against Spats Colombo. Wabash 1098.
We got to get out of town. Maybe we ought to grow beards.
We are going out of town. But we're going to shave.
Shave? At a time like this? Those guys got machine guns  they're going to blast our heads off  and you want to shave?
Shave our legs, stupid.
How can they walk on these things? How do they keep their balance?
Must be the way their weight is distributed. Come on.
And it's so drafty. They must be catching colds all the time.
Quit stalling. We'll miss the train.
I feel so naked. Like everybody's looking at me.
With those legs? Are you crazy?
It's no use. We'll never get away with it, Joe.
The name is Josephine. And it was your idea in the first place.
Who are we kidding? Look at that  look how she moves  it's like jello on springs  they must have some sort of a builtin motor. I tell you it's a whole different sex.
What are you afraid of? Nobody's asking you to have a baby. This is just to get out of town. The minute we hit Florida, we'll blow this setup.
This time I'm not going to let you talk me into something that...
My name is Josephine.
And I'm Daphne.
DAPHNE?
I never did like the name Geraldine.
Hello, everybody. I'm the bass fiddle. Just call me Daphne.
I'm Josephine. Sax.
How about that talent? This is like falling into a tub of butter.
Watch it, Daphne!
When I was a kid, I used to have a dream  I was locked up in this pastry shop overnight  with all kinds of goodies around  jelly rolls and mocha eclairs and sponge cake and Boston cream pie and cherry tarts 
Listen, stupe  no butter and no pastry. We're on a diet!
Not there  that's the emergency brake.
Now you've done it!
Done what?
Tore off one of my chests.
You'd better go fix it.
You better come help me.
This way, Daphne.
Now you tore the other one.
I changed it. It used to be Sugar Kowalczyk.
Polish?
Bye, Sugar. We been playing with the wrong bands.
Down, Daphne!
How about the shape of that liquor cabinet?
Forget it. One false move, and they'll toss us off the train  there'll be the police, and the papers, and the mob in Chicago...
Boy, would I like to borrow a cup of that Sugar.
Look  no butter, no pastry, and no Sugar!
You tore it again!
Men?
Oh, you don't have to worry about that.
We would be caught dead with men. Those rough, hairy beasts with eight hands  They all want just one thing from a girl.
Steady, boy. Just keep telling yourself you're a girl.
I'm a girl. I'm a girl. I'm a girl 
What are you doing?
I just want to make sure that honey stays in the hive. There'll be no buzzing around tonight.
But suppose I got to go  like for a drink of water?
Fight it.
But suppose I lose? Suppose it's an emergency?
Then pull the emergency brake!
Good night, Daphne.
Good night, Josephine.
What's going on here? Daphne  Daphne 
It's not my fault. I didn't invite them.
Break it up, girls! Daphne! Come on, help me!
Male and female  the moth and the flame  I ought to slug you!
You wouldn't hit a girl, would you?
What happened?
I got pinched in the elevator.
Well, now you know how the other half lives.
And I'm not even pretty.
They don't care  just as long as you wear skirts. It's like waving a red flat in front of a bull.
I'm tired of being a flag. I want to be a bull again. Lets get out of here, Joe. Let's blow.
Blow where?
You promised  the minute we hit Florida, we were going to beat it.
How can we? We're broke.
We can get a job with another band. A male band.
Listen, stupid  right now Spats Colombo and his chums are looking for us in every male band in the country.
But this is so humiliating.
So you got pinched in the elevator. So what? Would you rather be picking lead out of your navel?
All right, all right! But how long can we keep this up?
What's the beef? We're sitting pretty. We get room and board  we get paid every week  there's the palm trees and the flying fish 
What are you giving me with the flying fish? I know why you want to stick around  you're after Sugar.
Me? After Sugar?
I watched you two on the bus  loveydovey  whispering and giggling and borrowing each other's lipstick 
What are you talking about? Sugar and me, we're just like sisters.
Yeah? Well, I'm your fairy godmother  and I'm keeping an eye on you.
Yeah  let her soak. Come on.
Don't get burned, Daphne.
What is it, young lady? What are you staring at?
You  you 
This happens to me all the time in public.
I heard a very sad story about a girl who went to Bryn Mawr. She squealed on her roommate, and they found her strangled with her own brassiere.
Yes  you have to be very careful about picking a roommate.
He's not only got a yacht, he's got a bicycle.
Daphne  Go on  tell me all about him.
You know  the old shell game.
Daphne, you're bothering us.
Wise guy, huh? Trying to louse me up 
And what are you trying to do to poor Sugar? Putting on that millionaire act  and that phony accent  Nobody talks like that! I've seen you pull some low tricks on dames  but this is the trickiest and the lowest and the meanest 
I'm a pushover for whom? What is it? Who's on the phone?
Yes, Mr. Fielding  you'll pick her up after the show in your motorboat  goodbye  what's that you said? Oh  zowie! I'll give her the message.
What message? What motorboat?
You got it made, kid. Fielding wants you to have a little cold pheasant with him on his yacht 
Oh, he does!
Just the three of you on that great big boat  you and him and Rudy Vallee.
Fat chance! You call him right back and tell him I'm not going.
Of course, you're not. I'm going.
You're going to be on the boat with that dirty old man?
No. I'm going to be on that boat with Sugar.
And where's he going to be?
He's going to be ashore with you.
With ME?
That's right.
Oh, no! Not tonight, Josephine!
Daphne  your boy friend is waving at you.
You can both go take a flying jump.
Remember  he's your date for tonight. So smile.
Come on, you can do better than that. Give him teeth  the whole personality.
Why do I let you talk me into these things? Why?
Because we're pals  buddies  the two musketeers.
Don't give me the musketeers! How'm I going to keep the guy ashore?
Tell him you get seasick on a yacht. Play miniature golf with him.
Oh, no. I'm not getting caught in a miniature sand trap with that guy.
What are you doing with my flowers?
I'm just borrowing them. You'll get them back tomorrow.
Hi, Jerry. Everything under control?
Have I got things to tell you!
What happened?
I'm engaged.
Congratulations. Who's the lucky girl?
I am.
WHAT?
Osgood proposed to me. We're planning a June wedding.
What are you talking about? You can't marry Osgood.
You think he's too old for me?
Jerry! You can't be serious!
Why not? He keeps marrying girls all the time!
But you're not a girl. You're a guy! And why would a guy want to marry a guy?
Security.
Jerry, you'd better lie down. You're not doing well.
Look, stop treating me like a child. I'm not stupid. I know there's a problem.
I'll say there is!
His mother  we need her approval. But I'm not worried  because I don't smoke.
Jerry  there's another problem.
Like what?
Like what are you going to do on your honeymoon?
We've been discussing that. He wants to go to the Riviera  but I sort of lean toward Niagara Falls.
You're out of your mind! How can you get away with this?
Oh, I don't expect it to last. I'll tell him the truth when the time comes.
Like when?
Like right after the ceremony.
Oh.
Then we'll get a quick annulment  he'll make a nice settlement on me  I'll have those alimony checks coming in every month 
Jerry, listen to me  there are laws  conventions  it's just not being done!
But Joe  this may be my last chance to marry a millionaire!
Look, Jerry  take my advice  forget the whole thing  just keep telling yourself you're a boy!
I'm a boy  I'm a boy  I wish I were dead  I'm a boy  I'm a boy  What am I going to do about my engagement present?
What engagement present?
Hey  these are real diamonds.
Naturally. You think my fiance is a bum? Now I guess I'll have to give it back.
Wait a minute  lets not be hasty. After all, we don't want to hurt poor Osgood's feelings.
That's some nerve!
Daphne got a proposal tonight.
I feel like such a tramp  taking jewelry from a man under false pretenses.
Get it while you're young. And you better fix your lips. You want to look nice for Osgood, don't you?
It's just going to break his heart when he finds out I can't marry him.
So? It's going to break Sugar's heart when she finds out I'm not a millionaire. That's life. You can't make an omelette without breaking an egg.
What are you giving me with the omelette?
Nag, nag, nag. Look, we got a yacht, we got a bracelet, you got Osgood, I've got Sugar  we're really cooking.
Joe 
What?
I tell you, Joe, they're on to us. They're going to line us up against the wall and  Eheheheheh  and then the police are going to find two dead dames, and they're going to take us to the ladies' morgue, and when they undress us  I tell you, Joe, I'm just going to die of shame.
Shut up and keep packing.
Okay, Joe.
Not that, you idiot.
But they're from Osgood. He wanted me to wear them tonight.
Joe, if we get out of this hotel alive, you know what we're going to do? We're going to sell the bracelet, and grab a boat to South America and hide out in one of those banana republics  The way I figure is, if we eat nothing but bananas, we can live there for fifty years  maybe a hundred years  that is, if we get out of the hotel alive. Did we forget anything?
There's our shaving stuff  and there's Sugar.
Sugar?
Get me Room 414.
What do you think you're doing?
Telephone call? Who's got time for that?
We can't just walk out on her without saying goodbye.
Since when? Usually you leave 'em with nothing but a kick in the teeth.
That's when I was a saxophone player. Now I'm a millionaire.
Drop her a postcard. Any minute now those gorillas may be up here 
Hello, Room 414? This is the shiptoshore operator  I have a call for Miss Sugar Cane.
Hello, my dearest darling. So good to hear your voice again.
I may throw up.
I don't know about the captain  but the navigator is getting his tail out of here.
Yeah  lets shove off.
Wait a minute  my bracelet. What happened to my bracelet?
What do you mean, your bracelet? It's our bracelet.
All right. What happened to our bracelet?
Don't worry. We did the right thing with it.
What did we do? Joe, you're not pulling one of your old tricks.
No tricks, no mirrors, nothing up my sleeve. It's on the level this time.
You crazy or something? The place is crawling with mobsters  gangrene is setting in  and you're making like Diamond Jim Brady! How are we going to get out of here? How are we going to eat?
We'll walk. And if we have to, we'll starve.
There you go with that we again.
All right  so what do we do now?
First thing we got to do is get out of these clothes.
Did you hear that?
Yeah, but they're not watching yachts. Come on  you're going to call Osgood.
What'll I tell him?
Tell him you're going to elope with him.
Elope? But there are laws  conventions 
There's a convention, all right. There's also the ladies' morgue.
It's all fixed! Osgood is meeting us on the pier 
We're not on the pier yet 
Say, boss  I been talking to some of the other delegates  and the word is that Little Bonaparte is real sore about what happened to Toothpick Charlie. Him and Charlie, they used to be choir boys together.
Stop, or I'll burst out crying.
He even got Charlie's last toothpick  the one from the garage  and had it goldplated.
Like I was telling you  Little Bonaparte is getting soft. He doesn't have it here any more. Used to be like a rock. Too bad. I think it's time for him to retire.
Same faces  same instruments   and here's your Valentine's card.
Those two musicians from the garage!
They wouldn't be caught dead in Chicago  so we'll finish the job here. Come on.
What happened?
Me and Tiny, we had them cornered  but we lost 'em in the shuffle.
Where were you guys?
This a private clambake, or can anybody join?
It's private. Go away.
Okay.
Manhattans? This time of night?
 so the onelegged jockey said 
What did he say?
The onelegged jockey said  'Don't worry about me, baby. I ride sidesaddle.'
Cut it out, girls. Stop it. Joe  Josephine  help!
Hey, she's ticklish!
You're in Berths 7 and 7A.
Thank you ever so.
You're welcome.
It's entirely mutual.
Upsydaisy.
Fresh!
No  how does it go?
Now cut that out, girlsnone of that rough talk. They went to a conservatory.
Pardon me, Mr. Bienstock  can I have my flask back?
BIENSTOCK +++$+++
You girls have seen a brown bag with a white stripe and my initials?
A what?
My suitcase  with all my resort clothes.
Those idiot broads! Here we are all packed to go to Miami, and what happens? The saxophone runs off with a Bible salesman, and the bass fiddle gets herself pregnant. I ought to fire you, Bienstock.
Me? I'm the manager of the band  not the night watchman.
Hi, Mary Lou  Rosella  Okay, Dolores, get a move on  How's your back, Olga?
Clarinet  drums  trumpet  trombone 
Yes, Sue? What is it?
I thought I made it clear I don't want any drinking in this outfit.
All right, girls. Who does this belong to? Come on, now. Speak up. Sugar, I warned you!
I beg your pardon.
All right, girls  from the top again.
You know, Bienstock, there's something funny about those two new girls.
Funny? In what way?
I don't know  but I can feel it right here. That's one good thing about ulcers  it's like a burglar alarm going off inside you.
Are these your bags?
Yes. And that one, too.
Okay, doll.
I suppose you want a tip?
Forget it, doll. After all, you work here  I work here  and believe you me, it's nice to have you with the organization.
Bye.
Listen, doll  what time do you get off tonight?
Why?
Because I'm working the night shift  and I got a bottle of gin stashed away  and as soon as there's a lull 
Aren't you a little too young for that, sonny?
Wanna see my driver's license?
Get lost, will you?
That's the way I like 'em  big and sassy. And get rid of your roommate.
Which of you dolls is Daphne?
Bull fiddle.
It's from Satchel Mouth at Table Seven. This is from me to you, doll.
Beat it, Buster.
Never mind leaving your door open  I got a passkey.
Improved...how?
As I said, in every way. Physically and psychologically. More endurance, quicker responses, better handeye, improved technical training. Where the First Psychology gave you ninetyeight percent obedience, this bunch gives you 99.4.
Mmmmmm. Weeell, you know my old daddy was in maintenance and he had a saying...
...He used to say, "If it ain't broke, don't fix it."
I...see. I'm not sure I quite get your...point...
Well, the soldiers we've got now, they've been through all kinds of heavy shit...and they've always got the job done. Now these new ones, these "hot shots" of yours...what kind of action have they seen? They <u>are</u> battletested, aren't they?
That's up to you field guys. H.Q. wants you to break 'em in when you do the annual security sweep in January.
The sweep is just routine, not even police action. I'd like to see some sort of...meaningful evidence...
Such as?
Maybe we could run some tests. Kind of a comparison, the old and the new...
Melton, on the double! Up a chain! MELTON Sir! MELTON takes a few easy strides, gracefully catches a chain mid stride, and smarts up, climbing easily and twice as fast as TODD. CHURCH, SLOAN, and RUBRICK crane their necks as the two men struggle upward toward the rafters. Three quarters of the way up, MELTON comes even with TODD, then passes him. MEKUM, watching, smirks. CHURCH is watching too, and he's still not satisfied. His brow is knit, something's bothering him. ANGLE HIGH ABOVE, AMONG THE GIRDERS Stonefaced, MELTON is resting an a "platform" on the chain, sixty feet up, beneath the girders, swaying gently. His stony gaze is on the next chain where TODD is arriving at a "platform" on an adjacent chain...only three feet away. Their eyes meet, TODD and MELTON alone together sixty feet up, three feet apart. Neither man blinks, neither man flinches, neither man reveals anything at all... LOW ANGLE, LOOKING UP CHURCH considers the men high above, then to MEKUM. CHURCH What about...spirit?
Spirit? Oh! You mean "AQ"..."aggressive qualities"?
Whatever the latest jargon is. MEKUM Much better, much higher. For example, where your old ones expressed ninety percent of their sexual energy in aggressive physicality, these new ones are ninetynine percent without sexual inclination. It's <u>all</u> aggression. SLOAN <u>Real</u> men! CHURCH At ease, Lieutenant. What if they fought? A sudden silence. SLOAN raises her eyebrows, gives RUBRICK a look. Frowning thoughtfully, MEKUM looks up. MEKUM You mean up there? CHURCH Go ahead, Rube. Tell Todd to take him. MEKUM No! They all look at MEKUM. Is this the chink in the armor? The new soldiers can't fight? CHURCH "No"? MEKUM Not fair. No contest. Send two more of your old ones up. Now CHURCH, RUBRICK, and SLOAN are stunned. They exchange a glance. MEKUM Go ahead.
So your husband said he's think it over. Encouraged Mr. Miyamoto to believe he might sell to h...
I wouldn't say encouraged.
Well, he didn't say 'no', did he? Didn't say no hope existed.
Not in those words.
So the defendant was encouraged to hope. Or could have been.
I guess you'd have to guess. Not having been there with them. Having to guess whether your husband's report was word for word accurate.
Carl never lied.
Of course not. But it was emotional. A friend's plea set against his mother's attitude.
Those 'dirty looks'. Defendant ever aim one of those at you?
He had no reason to.
Carl ever say <u>he</u> got one?
I can't speak for him.
You can speak for what he <u>said</u>. Just like you did for Mr. Hooks...
Sorry about that, Mrs. Heine. Shall I repeat the ques...
Carl said he didn't like Kabuo much anymore.
The question is more about the <u>defendant's</u> attitu...
That's all he said.
So this...foam you found in the lungs. How does it get there?
As I testified. It occurs when water, mucus and air are mixed by respiration. I believe I said that.
That's <u>why</u> the autopsy report identifies <u>drowning</u> as the cause of death.
Meaning that he wasn't murdered first, say on the deck of the boat, and then thrown overboard.
Well...
Your report says death by <u>drowning</u>, which means he went into the water alive and breathing. And the report is accurate...?
In your motorcycle example. Those injuries are produced by the head being propelled <u>against</u> an object. Rather than the reverse, yes?
Obviously.
Can you tell whether an object moved against the head, or the other way around? Or would both look the same.
The same.
So if his head struck something narrow and flat, the gunnel of a boat, a net roller, a fairlead, could that have...
If the head was moving fast enough, but I don't see how it could be.
Is it possible?
Sure, anything's poss...
Is it fair to say that you do not know for <u>certain</u> which it was.
I already said that, b...
<u>And</u> that you can't say for <u>certain</u> whether the head injury was sustained before or <u>after</u> death?
For certain, no.
But you are <u>certain</u> that he died by drowning.
For the third time, yes.
Can I say something, here?
Yes, you can tell me about the minor cut you found on the deceased's right hand. The report says 'recent origin'. How recent? As much as 24 hours before death?
Absolutely not. Probably one or two hours. Four at the most.
Are you absol...
<u>Yes</u>, I'm sure.
Maybe the assailant straightened the cabin. And forgot the cup.
Right. In the middle. Of the floor.
Maybe.
I think you testified <u>all</u> the lights were on. Cabin, mast, net lights, picking lights...
Yessir, there'd been real heavy fog.
And yet you started the engine right up. With all those lights drawing all night, the batteries had that much charge. Did that strike you odd?
Didn't think about it at the time. So no, it didn't strike me odd.
Does it now?
A little. Yes. You have to wonder.
You have to wonder.
You found three batteries, you say. A D6 and D8 in the well. And a spare D8 on the cabin floor. Correct?
It is.
Now I did some measuring down at the chandlery. A D6 is one inch wider than a D8. It would be too large for the deceased's well.
He's done some onthespot refit ting. You could see the side flange was banged away to make room for the D6.
But he had a spare D6, you said. Right there. Why not use that?
It was dead. We had it tested. Maybe the D6 was the spare and he had to use it.
Sheriff, how many batteries and what size did you find on <u>defendant's</u> boat?
Two D6's. That's the kind his well was fitted for.
No spare.
No.
So the defendant went out fishing for the night with <u>no</u> spare battery, hmmn?
Apparently.
I'm curious. The D6 that was refitted into the deceased's well. Was it exactly the same brand and model as defendant's?
I believe so.
Now you've testified that the deceased was a heavy man, and hard to bring out of the net.
Is it possible his head struck the transom, or the stern gunnel, or the net roller, as you were bringing him in?
I don't think so.
You don't. <u>Think</u> so.
He was heavy, but we were real careful. But I don't remember him hitting anything, anywhere.
You don't. <u>Remember</u>.
Operating this winch you'd rarely operated before, doing this awkward job of bringing in a drowned man of 235 pounds...is it <u>possible</u>. Possible that he struck his head <u>after</u> death. Possible?
Possible. But not darn likely.
How <u>is</u> your motherinlaw?
She's alright, Nels, thanks for asking.
And her farmhouse...?
The damage was considerable. But she's insured. Thanks, again.
One D6 and one D8 in the well. And a dead D8 on the deck.
Which you inferred was replaced by the D6, which must have been a spare.
What else could it be?
Even though a D6 is too big, and the flange had to be banged out to squeeze it in. Which makes it a peculiar choice. For a spare.
<u>You</u> said that. That was <u>your</u> testimony.
What makes you think I play?
Your daddy played. I asked, down at the Japanese Community Center. You smoke cigars?
White or black?
You mean, do I like to take the offensive? Or hang back and wait.
You must think I like losing.
I think you like learning.
Bet there's a few things you could teach me. Kendo, for one.
Sure. I could take a fishing gaff and split your head open. Right above your left ear.
You wouldn't even see it move.
You're wonderin'...how come I never ask. If you did it.
Now this jury is gonna be lookin' at the evidence with one eye. And at you with the oth...
Mr. Gudmundsson, we <u>know</u> what that jury is looking at.
So every time you think about showing that jury strength. Or honor or composure. Or dignity.
I should show them an American?
And what's that?
That you came upon Carl by accident. Like you said. Gave him the battery. Like you said. Asked him about the seven acres. Like you said.
I'm more a hotblooded killer, huh? Like a soldier. Like a samurai.
You won't hear that from Hooks. Because the charge is <u>first</u>degree murder, which requires premeditation. He can't change the charge.
You want me to say that.
I want you. To tell the truth.
You think that <u>is</u> the truth.
I told your wife. Trials aren't always so much about actual truth. As about what folks <u>believe</u> is true. That's sad. And it's real.
And what do you believe?
What for, Sheriff?
We have a warrant. To search your boat.
You always run with the well open?
I was checking the cables.
See you replaced a mooring line, lately. This one's new.
Naw, I had that around for a while.
Sure you did. Help me with this hold cover, willya?
You gaff with the <u>hook</u> end. Blood's on the butt. Where your hand goes.
Sure. Blood gets all <u>over</u> your hand, Sheriff, ask any fisherman.
Sheriff, I can't afford not to fish toni...
Look, no way I'm lettin' you out there. In a half hour you could be in Canada.
It's the way it happened, I know it is.
No, you don't.
This tastes horrible, hmmn?
You're wondering why I held it.
I'm wondering how the judge is gonna like my waking up his old bones. in the middle of the night.
Your daddy. Was quite a feller.
Yes, he was.
He's looking down. And he's not thinking 'bout the man you were yesterday. He's proud of the man you are tonight. That's what counts.
To my father. Everything counts.
Tell us why that lantern would be so significant.
Well. It shows the prosecutor was wrong. It was <u>Carl's</u> boat that was dead in the water. Or he'd never have put up the lantern.
Now you believe there were <u>two</u> lanterns when defendant arrived. One in Carl's hand. The second lashed to the mast.
That's what Mr. Miyamoto reported, and he'd have no reason to lie. He couldn't know that it would help his case.
Well, why does it?
Because the second lantern, the one on the mast. Was never found. So we have to ask...
That's when he fell.
Fell.
Miyamoto gave him the battery, and left. Carl's boat was running, he goes back to fishing. But at some point, he thinks of the lantern...
Still lashed to the mast.
He figures a perfectly good lantern could get banged around up there. So he climbs up. To cut it down.
Just as the freighter comes through? Isn't that quite a coincidence?
Coincidences happen. You run a yellow light <u>just</u> as a car comes out of nowhere. Splitsecond tragedy happens every day. Or maybe...
Maybe...?
Maybe Carl picks up something about the freighter on his radio, which is now working. Same report Milholland heard. And <u>that</u> makes him get the lantern fast. Before the freighter's wake can bang it around.
But you <u>could</u> be wrong. He <u>could</u> have climbed up earlier.
Then where's the lantern? And where's the knife?
The knife. What knife?
Still a coincidence. Timing and all.
The freighter started through at 1:42. The sea water seeped into Carl's watch and stopped it. At 1:47.
Still and all. Carl was a strong swimmer, he m...
He hit his head. On the way in.
You think so?
The sheriff and the deputy and I inspected the deck closely. We found a small fracture in the wood of the gunnel. Just below the mast.
Well, anything coulda caused that.
Cigarette?
I'll take two. One for later.
If I whistle. Those boys'll see you, and come runnin'. <u>You're</u> the story today.
You ever been strangled by a single hand?
Naw, I've seen what that can do to a pack of cigarettes.
We don't let go, you s...
It's a rare thing. Takes a turning point.
I did. Boy.
Three kids. What's she going to do?
You said three minutes.
Won't take two.
Never shoulda given you that inventory in the first place.
It's public record. If the public cares enough to read it.
Here now, what are you fixin' to do?
Have a look. At nothing.
You gonna climb that with one arm?
You're right. I better use two.
It's on the twine, too. But it's not r...
Don't prove there was two lanterns. Coulda been the one in the cabin.
You have the night watch? On the radio.
Since September. Last guys got transferred.
And you keep the records, or contribute to 'em.
Shorthard the radio transmis sions, write 'em up, file 'em in a cabinet. Nobody ever looks. Just take up space.
How long you have this detail?
Me and Smoltz came on dogwatch September 16.
You mean, early morning the 16th?
No, night of the 16th, morning the 17th. We replaced two guys named Miller and Milholland.
They got transferred that day. Out to Cape Flattery.
Some seaman's loast report. Stuffed in a cabinet, good as lost forever. No one knows.
As my wife testified, we were considering it.
Actually, she said you had decided. Decided <u>not</u> not come forward.
Sheriff said right off, I was under suspicion. I didn't have a lawyer...
But even <u>after</u> you had an attorney. You still claimed to know <u>nothing</u>. Claimed <u>not</u> to have seen Carl. Am I correct?
Yes. Initially.
Well, 'initially' is an interesting word, sir. You'd <u>been</u> arrested, you <u>had</u> a lawyer, and you <u>still</u> claimed ignorance!
I should have told everything right away. I know that now, and I regret it.
Should have told 'everything'. Meaning, you should have told the <u>truth</u>.
My apologies. Do you regret not telling the truth?
I have told the truth.
You mean, this morning. The new story, the battery story. That one is the truth? That's a question, sir.
I see. Now what happened the day Carl Heine was found? Before your arrest.
I slept til onethirty, when my wife woke me up with the news. We talked for a few hours. I left at six and went straight to my boat.
Didn't go anywhere else? No errands, no purchases? Just straight to the boat. That's the truth.
Yes.
Well, the sheriff found <u>two</u> batteries in your well. If you left one with Carl Heine, how is that possible?
I had a spare battery in my shed. I brought it down, and put it in just before the sheriff showed up.
Robbed. He was angry.
Oh, yeh. He said someday he would get his land back.
Mr. Jurgensen. Did he offer to <u>buy</u> the seven acres from you?
Oh, yeh. But this is nine year ago, I had my healt, I wasn't wantin' to sell.
And then your stroke came this summer. And you put your property on the market, I believe you said September 7. Which, remember, is <u>eight</u> days before Carl Heine died. And who comes Spetember 7, wanting to buy?
Carl Heine came.
But Carl was a fisherman. And successful at it.
He said he didn't want that life no more. He'd been saving to buy a farm. He was sorry I got sick. But pretty excited to get back his father's place.
Maybe it went. Where Carl went. Over the side.
Objection! Speculation.
<u>Everything</u> had to happen <u>just</u> right. For your little story to fly. I mean, a blond hair could be on that gunnel for a <u>lot</u> of reasons.
I'm sorry, was there a question in there?
Well, the freighter. The twine. The blood. The knife. The cup. The watch. The second battery. The phantom lantern. The fishing gaff. The cracked gunnel. The skull wound. The blond hair. That's <u>eleven</u> things...
Twelve.
And since you confess this is all pure guesswork. What is your expertise, sir, are you a detective of sorts?
My expertise. Is that I'm a journalist.
Then putting them together. So truth is revealed.
But isn't the <u>truth</u> that there are <u>several</u> other ways to explain <u>each</u> of these twelve pieces.
Oh, yes.
Your line of work. You must meet a lot of men play fast and loose with the truth.
Like you couldn't believe.
Greedy.
He didn't want to lose any more.
I asked you a question, you're writing a tract, h...
That's how journalists. Answer questions.
And I wouldn't blame these good people if they were a mite resent ful. At a tactic that insults their intelligence.
That's curious. I was <u>appealing</u> to their intelligence.
<u>Were</u> you, sir? Can you <u>prove</u> one word of all your fancy story?
No, sir, I can't. Not beyond a reasonable doubt.
As peculiar as a struggle between a 235 pound man, and an assailant strong enough to subdue him...that leaves only a <u>single</u> overturned <u>cup</u> in its wake?
Objection, asking the witness to speculate.
My gosh, Alvin, was I supposed to object every time you did that?
Objection. Asking witness to speculate about deceased's state of mind.
All right. What did your son <u>say</u> to that effect?
You're a hard man to trust, sir. You sit before us, with no expression, keeping a poker f...
Objection!
Your Honor, <u>all</u> of this is speculation. Including Mr. Hooks' dramaturgy about the defendant issuing a false distress call.
Tht was summation, Your H...
...so when the sheriff returned, you showed him the injury to the deceased's head.
He said, 'Could it be somebody hit him?' And I said, 'You want to play Sherlock Holmes, here?'
Did you say more?
I said that if I was playing Sherlock Holmes...I'd maybe look for a... Japanese person. With a bloody gun butt. A righthanded fella, to be precise.
And why. Is that?
Well, I was a doctor in the Jap theater, in the war. I saw those kendo wounds, <u>many</u> times. Looked exactly like this one.
Could you tell me what 'kendo' is?
Japanese stickfighting. They're trained as kids, y'know. To kill with sticks.
And you weren't there, when the coroner examined the wound.
Nossir. I'd gone to tell the wid... to tell Mrs. Heine.
So, no...immediate suspicion, no...general talk of enmity between the two.
These are fishermen, Alvin. They don't talk at all to each other and less to me. Specially gossip.
...comes off third cleat from the stern, port side. And it's brand new. Unlike the rest.
And the next one...?
From Carl Heine's boat. All his were like this one, threestrand manila, new condition, braided in loops. Not bowlined like Miyamoto's.
And the last...?
Found on Carl's boat, too. Starboard side, second cleat from the stern. But it doesn't match Carl's lines. It matches Miyamoto's. perfect.
So if defendant had tied up to deceased's boat. With that last one. Would those cleats have lined up?
You bet. And if Miyamoto there had been in a hurry to cast off, he coulda left this line behind on Carl's boat.
And replaced it later with the new one. That's your inference?
Pretty darn clear.
They were JapaneseAmerican boys, yes sir.
And you were generally experienced in training men for handtohand combat.
It was my specialty, sir, I trained several thousand over the years.
So. Wide crosssection of men to evaluate. And the day that the defendant volunteered for this... demonstration. Did you find him eager?
More than eager. He was out to make a point.
Well, what then, sergeant?
What else? I had the boy teach me kendo. Including...the importance of the bow.
And your evaluation of the defendant? Could he kill a much larger man with a fishing gaff? So quickly, there would be no sign of struggle?
Oh, in a heartbeat.
You don't believe in God anymore.
Agnostics don't believe or disbelieve, Ma. We just don't pretend we know.
I felt Milholland's report in my pocket. And wondered why I wasn't telling her. Telling someone. What I'd found.
You've been busy with that trial, I suppose. Such a travesty...
They only arrested that poor soul because he's Japanese.
Seattle boys think he's guilty. They say the evidence is rock solid.
They're not his neighbor, like you are. He is a husband, a father, he risked his <u>life</u> for <u>their</u> country. The same as you.
Those aren't the facts that matter.
Your father fought at Belleau Wood, it took him years to get over it. Nightmares, tears, b...
...but he found you.
He's still got a good grip. We need to dig more.
At school, she kept mostly to the Japanese kids, and sort of ignored me. As if all of our times alone together...in the hollow cedar, everywhere...were a secret.
I told myself that was good. That it made our friendship special. And didn't mean she was ashamed of it. Necessarily.
Easy. Slow is best.
The best part was that there was a 'this'. To debate the wrongness of.
Your friends would. Your dad would kill me with a machete.
We're Japanese, not Mexican, Ishmael. He'll slice you up with a ceremonial sword.
My mom. Would be the problem.
Why? We're only talking.
I can just feel my spirits soar.
Well, I don't do it for just anybody.
There can't be any wrong in this, Ha...
I lie to my parents every day. And every night.
My father can't get our money from the bank. We have a few dol...
It'll be over soon. I can get you money.
It's just Pearl Harbor. People are a little crazy, right n...
Look at my face. It's the face of the people who did that. My father hardly speaks English. We're in bad trouble, you have to see that.
We all expect the world to be fair. As if we have some right t...
I don't mean everyone. Just people who can do things because they can arrest people or convict them. Or run a newspaper.
I couldn't say anything. I just stood there, hating her.
I'm sorry about your arm. Kabuo and I. Are very sor...
The Japs did it.
I'm married, Ishmael. It isn't right for us to be alone. People will t...
There's no one here, and I've <u>got</u> to talk to you.
You have to hear this, I can never touch you, Ishmael. Not once, not ever. There's no half way. As much as I know it hurts you, you have to let this go.
Look, I <u>want</u> to forget you, I do. I think if you hold me, just this once, I can walk away and never speak to you again.
Did you write that column?
I did. But the jury won't s...
It's not for the. They only get to convict him.
I said 'excited'. Not agitated, he was excited in the sense of being overjoyed.
You were...overjoyed yourself, to hear the news?
Happy for him. And relieved.
So, then, you...and your husband... must have called friends, relatives, to tell them the amazing news. Yes?
We hear how Carl...passed away. Only a few hours later.
Your husband returned at, what, seven o'clock?
Closer to eight.
So, five hours. Plenty of time for a call. He was 'excited', you say. In the sense of being 'overjoyed'.
You thought the deceased might... break his promise?
Of course not. We're just not quick to run and boast. In case something went wrong.
And then, something did. Carl Heine was found dead. With his head crushed.
Yes, and then, what was there to call about? Everything was up in the air.
Up in the air? Was <u>that</u> your reaction?
We discussed that. And decided not to.
Why not?
Because the facts could be misconstrued as murder.
But if truth was on your side, whatever were you worried about?
Trials aren't only about truth, Mr. Hooks. Even though they should be. They're about what people <u>believe</u> is true.
So you hid the truth. Deliberately.
We were afraid. Silence seemed better. To come forward seemed like a mistake.
Well, it seems to me...
Doesn't it seem to <u>you</u>, Mrs. Miyamoto, that your mistake was in being deceitful? Concealing information during the course of a sheriff's investigation.
It seems human. To me.
Question withdrawn, you may step down.
You're implying th...
I said. No further questions.
Now, Mister Gi...
Unwritten rule of the sea. We don't bother each other, stick to ourselves. Ask anybody.
Now if you wanted to kill a man. Think you'd try boarding against his will, and hitting him with a fishing gaff?
It's a joke. Maneuver up to Carl's boat? Tie your lines fast? Come aboard? All against Carl's will? It's the stupidest suggestion I ever heard of.
I'm sorry about that. It wasn't mine in the first place.
So the fishing gaff method wouldn't make sense?
Couldn't get on the boat. I'd just <u>shoot</u> the feller. <u>Then</u> tie up, throw him inta th' drink. And skip bein' the first gillnetter in history to make a successful forced boarding.
Now the sheriff believed that the D6 battery in Carl's well was Carl's own spare. Even though it was too large f...
No sense to have <u>any</u> at all., even the right size. It's like having an extra battery in the trunk of your car. Nobody does.
Boat has two batteries. Lose one you run off the other til morning. Carl musta lost both, so Miyamoto there gave him one a his.
Course, if Carl lost both batteries, dead in the water, his radio wouldn't work. So how would he signal for help?
Compressed air horn, most likely. Hope to God some man hears you in that fog.
All right, what if the defendant <u>heard</u>? So Carl <u>let</u> him aboard, to help. And <u>then</u> the fishing gaff?
You mean Miyamoto followed him out there, and suckerpunched him?
Well, what if?
Now, how is Miyamoto gonna know in <u>advance</u>? That Carl loses two batteries. Must happen once ever' 20 years or so.
Thank you, Mr. Gillanders. Thank you for coming down, in this cold weather.
Well, it does seem mighty warm in here. Specially for Mr. Hooks.
Just three questions. The Miyamoto family bought your seven acres for $4500?
Tried to. Defaulted on their payments.
Second question. What did Ole Jurgensen pay you per acre?
A thousand.
So that makes what would have been $4500 into $7000, doesn't it? If you sent the equity back, you had a profit of $2500.
Is that your third question?
It is.
You done your math right.
Him and his folks and two brothers and two sisters worked our land. Lived in a picker's cabin at first.
So the defendant knew the deceased, your son, even then.
They fished t'gether. Went to school. Carl Junior treated him like a white person. Like any friend.
But back in '34, Japaneseborn could not <u>own</u> land. So...?
Carl held it <u>for</u> 'em. Called it a lease. They make payments every June and December...
Why? If they could never take title.
Their kids was born here. So when the oldest, that one there, was twenty...last payment gets made, and he could own it.
Now defendant's father had also died by that point. Where was the defendant? When you sent his family their equity.
In the war. Europe, I believe. They could hardly send him to the Pacific, could they?
And when he came home. Did he write you about this? Or phone, perhaps.
Just showed up at my door, big as life and twice as mean. Wanted to talk to my son.
What do you mean by 'dirty looks'?
Well. Every time I see him in town or somewhere, he's starin' at me with these narrow eyes. Givin' me his mean face.
When your son came back from the war, what did he say about all this?
That he'd keep an eye on Miyamoto. Watch out for him.
Did he see some <u>danger</u> from defen...
So the blood on the gaff was not fish blood at all. It was <u>human</u>, yes? Type B positive.
Carl Heine's type.
But you can't say with any certainty that the blood was his.
No, but as I say, the type is rare. Ten percent of Caucasian males.
And the blood could <u>not</u> have belonged to defendant. Seeing that his type is O negative.
That's obvious.
You scraped the dried blood from the <u>butt</u> of the gaff. Where a fella's <u>hand</u> goes. And what did you see under your microscope, besides the B positive blood and the wood scrapings...?
Bits of blood and wood. What else would there be?
No bits of bone, no particles of scalp, no strands of hair?
None.
Well, if the blood got <u>onto</u> the gaff by crushing a man's skull...
I'm a hemotologist, sir, I was asked only t...
I don't know.
You don't.
With no bone or scalp or hair present. Would it be more probable that the blood came from crushing a man's skull...
I'm a hemotologist, not a detective.
...or from the cut on his hand. Which is more probable?
Don't know how long it's take to get a charge...
Keep it tonight. We'll catch fish. I'll see ya back on the docks...
Seven acres. I'm wonderin' what you'd pay for 'em. Just curious, is all.
What are you sellin' 'em for? Why don't we start there.
The battery's in, that's done with. Besides, you'd do the same for m...
...<u>might</u> do the same. I have to warn you 'bout that, chief. I'm not screwed together like I used to be.
I am a bastard. I'm a big Hun Nazi son of a bitch. And I still got your bamboo fishing rod.
Oh, yeh?
Hid it from my mom. Caught a mess a sea runs. Damn thing's still in my closet.
$1200 an acre, that's what I paid Ole, won't take a dime less. You got no choice on that.
Didn't say I was buyin' did I? What you want down? Just bein' curious, is all.
How do you want that cooked?
Medium rare, please.
Fries?
Yes, please.
Lettuce and tomato?
Yes, please.
You want another one of these, too?
Yeah, give him another one. And I'll take a cup of coffee while you're at it.
Hot coffee or iced coffee?
Do you have real iced coffee, or do you just pour hot coffee over some ice cubes?
Everything is real in here, honey. As real as the color of my hair.
I'll take the iced coffee. You only live once, right?
If you're lucky. Then again, it depends on what you call living.
I don't mean to pry, but I see a kid walking around with a big knapsack on his back, and I begin to wonder if all his worldly possessions aren't stowed in there. Are you in some kind of trouble or what?
Watch out, man. You'll get yourself killed like that.
I can't believe I did that ... Christ. I'm walking around in a fog ...
No harm done. Everything's okay now. I've got to be going.
No, wait. You can't just walk off. You saved my life.
I just happened to be there. The right place at the right time.
I owe you something.
It's okay, mister. No big deal.
Yes it is. It's a law of the universe. If I let you walk away, the moon will spin out of orbit ... pestilence will reign over the city for a hundred years.
Well, if you put it that way...
You have to let me do something for you to put the scales in balance.
That's all right. If I think of something, I'll send my butler over to tell you.
Come on. At least let me buy you a cup of coffee.
I don't drink coffee. On the other hand, since you insist, if you offered me a cold lemonade. I wouldn't say no.
Good. Lemonade it is. I'm Paul.
Rashid. Rashid Cole.
Are you sure you don't want some food to go along with it? It might help to absorb some of that liquid. You don't want to slosh around too much when you stand up.
That's okay. I've already had lunch.
You must eat lunch pretty early. It's only eleven o'clock.
I mean breakfast.
Yeah, sure, and I bet you had lobster last night. Along with two bottles of champagne.
Just one bottle. I believe in moderation.
Look, kid, it's okay with me. You don't have to play games. If you want a hamburger or something, go ahead and order it.
Well, maybe just one. To be polite.
Cocktail hour is over. The young man would like to order a hamburger.
Mostly what.
You don't have to tell me if you don't want to, but I might be able to help.
You don't know me from a hole in the wall.
That's true. But I also owe you something, and I'm not sure that buying you a hamburger is going to do the job. What is it? Family problems? Money problems?
Oh no. Momsie and Popsie have oodles.
And where do Momsie and Popsie live?
East Seventyfourth Street.
In Manhattan?
Of course. Where else?
Then what are you doing in Park Slope? It's a little far from home, isn't it?
That's where the what comes in.
The what?
The what. I've kind of run away from home, you see. It has nothing to do with my parents or money. I saw something I wasn't supposed to see, and for the time being it's best that I keep myself out of sight.
You can't be more specific than that?
Here and there. Around.
Uhhuh. One of those cozy bed and breakfast places, probably.
Yeah, that's right.
Except that there's no bed, is there? And no breakfast either.
The material world is an illusion. It doesn't matter if they're there or not. The world is in my head.
But your body is in the world, isn't it? If someone offered you a place to stay, you wouldn't necessarily refuse, would you?
People don't do that kind of thing. Not in New York.
I'm not "people." I'm just me. And I do whatever I goddamn want to do. Got it?
Thanks, but I'll manage.
In case you're wondering, I like women, not little boys. And I'm not offering you a longterm lease  just a place to crash for a couple of nights.
I can take care of myself. Don't worry.
Suit yourself. But if you change your mind, here's the address.
I didn't expect to see you again.
Same here. But I had a long talk with my accountant this afternoon. You know, to see how a move like this would affect my tax picture, and he said it would be okay.
That's it. Just the two rooms.
This is the first house I've been in without a TV.
I used to have one, but it broke a couple of years ago and I never got around to replacing it. I'd just as soon not have one anyway. I hate those damn things.
But then you don't get to watch the ball games. You told me you were a Mets fan.
I listen on the radio. I can see the games just fine that way. The world is in your head, remember?
Nice drawing. Did you do that?
My father did. Believe it or not, that little baby is me.
Yeah, I can believe it.
It's strange, though, isn't it? Looking at yourself before you knew who you were.
Is your father an artist?
No, he was a schoolteacher. But he liked to dabble.
He's dead?
Twelve, thirteen years ago. Actually, he died with his sketch pad open on his lap. Up in the Berkshires one weekend, drawing a picture of Mount Greylock.
Drawing's a good thing.
Is that what you do? Draw pictures?
Yeah, sometimes. I like to dabble, too.
Time to wake up. Hey, kid, time to wake up. Rashid! Up and out. I have to work in here. The slumber party is over.
What time is it?
Eightthirty.
Eightthirty?
You'll find juice and eggs and milk in the refrigerator. Cereal in the cupboard. Coffee on the stove. Take whatever you want. But it's time for me to get started in here.
Jesus, do you make a lot of noise. Can't you see I'm trying to work?
I'm sorry. They just... they just slipped out of my hands.
A little less clumsiness around here would be nice, don't you think?
I'm a teenager. All teenagers are clumsy. It's because we're still growing. We don't know where our bodies end and the world begins.
The world is going to end pretty soon if you don't learn fast. Look, why not make yourself useful? I'm just about out of smokes. Go around the corner to the Brooklyn Cigar Company and buy me two tins of Schimmelpenninck Medias.
Twenty dollars is a lot of money. Are you sure you can trust me with it? I mean, aren't you afraid I might steal it?
If you want to steal it, that's your business. At least I won't have you around here making noise. It might be worth it.
I'm sorry. I'm really sorry... I was trying to reach for one of the books up there ... And then, I don't know, the sky fell on top of me.
It just won't do, will it? I go two and a half years without being able to write a word, and then, when I finally get started on something, when it looks as though I might actually be coming to life again, you show up and start breaking everything in my house. It just won't do, will it?
I didn't ask to come here. You invited me, remember? If you want me to leave, all you have to do is say so.
How long have you been here?
Three nights.
And how long did I tell you you could stay?
Two or three nights.
It sounds like our time is up, doesn't it?
I'm sorry I messed up. You've been very kind to me ... But all good things have to come to an end, right?
No hard feelings, okay? It's a small place, and I can't get my work done with you around.
You don't have to apologize. The coast is probably clear now anyway.
Are you going to be all right?
Absolutely. The world is my oyster. Whatever that means.
Do you need some money? Some extra clothes?
Not a penny, not a stitch. I'm cool, man.
Take good care of yourself, okay?
You too. And make sure the light is green before you cross the street. Oh, by the way, I liked your book. I think you're a hell of a good writer.
Hey, it's you.
I wanted to give you this as a token of my appreciation.
Appreciation for what?
I don't know. For helping me out.
Where did you get that thing?
I bought it. Twentynine ninetyfive on sale at Goldbaum's TV and Radio. Well, that just about takes care of it, I guess. You'll be able to watch the ball games. You know, as a little break from your work.
Where the hell do you think you're going?
Business appointment. I'm seeing my broker at three o'clock.
Cut it out, will you? Just cut it out and come back here.
I don't have much time.
Close the door. Sit down in that chair. Now listen carefully. Your Aunt Em came here a couple of days ago. She was sick with worry, out of her mind. We had an interesting talk about you, Thomas. Do you understand what I'm saying? Your aunt thinks you're in trouble and so do I. Tell me about it, kid. I want to hear all about it right now.
You don't really want to know.
I don't, huh? And what makes you such an authority on what I want or don't want?
Okay, okay. It's all so stupid. There's this guy, see. Charles Clemm. The Creeper, that's what people call him. The kind of guy you don't want to cross paths with.
And?
I crossed paths with him. That's why I'm trying to stay clear of my neighborhood. To make sure I don't run into him again.
So that's the something you weren't supposed to see, huh?
I just happened to be walking by... All of a sudden, the Creeper and this other guy come running out of this checkcashing place with masks on their faces and guns in their hands... They just about ran smack into me. The Creeper recognized me, and I knew he knew I recognized him... If the guy from the checkcashing place hadn't rushed out then screaming bloody murder, he would have shot me. I'm telling you, the Creeper would have shot me right there on the sidewalk. But the noise distracted him, and when he turned around to see what was happening, I took off... One more second, and I would have been dead.
Why don't you go to the police?
You're joking, right? I mean, that's your way of trying to be funny, right?
If they put this Creeper in jail, then you'd be safe.
The man has friends. And they're not likely to forgive me if I testify against him.
What makes you think you'll be any safer around here? It's only about a mile away from where you live.
It might not be far, but it's another galaxy. Black is black and white is white, and never the twain shall meet.
It looks like they've met in this apartment.
That's because we don't belong anywhere. You don't fit into your world, and I don't fit into mine. We're the outcasts of the universe.
Maybe. Or maybe it's the other people who don't belong.
Let's not get too idealistic.
Fair enough. We wouldn't want to get carried away, would we? Now call your aunt Em and let her know you're alive.
Ah, coffee. Smells good.
One sip of this stuff and your eyes will blast open.
Thanks.
What time did you get to bed last night?
I don't know. Two or three. It was pretty late.
You work too hard, you know that?
Once a story gets hold of you, it's hard to let go. Besides, I'm making up for lost time.
Just so you don't overdo it. You don't want to die of sleep deprivation before you finish.
If you don't sleep, you don't dream. If you don't dream, you don't have nightmares.
That's logical. And if you don't sleep, you don't need a bed. Saves you money, too. So what's this story you're working on, anyway?
If I tell you, I might not be able to finish it.
Come on, just a little hint.
Okay, just a little hint. I can't tell you the story, but I'll tell you what gave me the idea for it.
The inspiration.
Yeah, right. The inspiration. It's a true story anyway, so I don't suppose it can hurt, can it?
No way.
All right. Listen carefully. About twentyfive years ago, a young man went skiing alone in the Alps. There was an avalanche, the snow swallowed him up, and his body was never recovered.
The end.
No, not the end. The beginning. His son was just a little boy at the time, but the years passed, and when he grew up, he became a skier, too. One day last winter, he went out by himself for a run down the mountain. He gets halfway to the bottom and then stops to eat his lunch next to a big rock. Just as he's unwrapping his cheese sandwich, he looks down and sees a body frozen in the ice  right there at his feet. He bends down to take a closer look, and suddenly he feels that he's looking into a mirror, that he's looking at himself. There he is  dead  and the body is perfectly intact, sealed away in a block of ice  like someone preserved in suspended animation. He gets down on all fours, looks right into the dead man's face, and realizes that he's looking at his father.
Celebrate? What for?
It's my birthday. I'm seventeen years old as of fortyseven minutes ago, and I think I should celebrate having made it this far.
Hey, hey. Happy birthday. Why didn't you tell me?
I just did.
I mean earlier. We could have planned something.
Here we are. Rembrandt's drawings. Edward Hopper. Van Gogh's letters.
Pick two or three. Now that the coffers are open, you might as well take advantage of me.
Uh, actually, I tend to shy away from that kind of thing.
Excuse me for asking, but you aren't married, are you?
Yes, an invitation. I apologize for springing it on you at the last minute, but Mr. Benjamin and I are attending a celebration tonight, and we would be most pleased if you chose to accompany us. Isn't that right, Mr. Benjamin?
Absolutely. We would be honored.
It's 1942, right? And he's caught in Leningrad during the siege. I'm talking about one of the worst moments in human history. Five hundred thousand people died in that one place, and there's Bakhtin, holed up in an apartment, expecting to be killed any day. He has plenty of tobacco, but no paper to roll it in. So he takes the pages of a manuscript he's been working on for ten years and tears them up to roll his cigarettes.
His only copy?
His only copy. I mean, if you think you're going to die, what's more important, a good book or a good smoke? And so he huffed and he puffed, and little by little he smoked his book.
Nice try. You had me going for a second, but no ... no writer would ever do a thing like that. Would he?
You don't believe me, huh? Look, I'll show you. It's all in this book.
I don't know.
Is it yours?
Yeah, it might be.
Here, catch.
So you're saying it wasn't like that at all.
Not exactly. I mean, there was more to it than I told you.
Christ. You didn't just see what happened. They dropped the package on the ground and you picked it up.
Yeah, I picked it up.
And started to run.
And started to run.
Good thinking.
That's just it. I didn't think. I just did it.
You have one hell of a knack for getting into trouble, don't you? So how much does it come to?
Six thousand dollars. Five thousand eight hundred and fourteen dollars, to be exact.
So you robbed the robbers, and now the robbers are after you.
That's it. In a nutshell.
Yeah, well, you have to be nuts to do what you did. If you want my opinion, you should give this money back to the Creeper. Just give it back and tell him you're sorry.
No way. There's no way I'm giving that money back. It's my money now.
A lot of good it will do you if the Creeper finds you.
That money is my whole future.
Keep up with that attitude, and you won't have a future. Seventeen is a hell of an age to die. Is that what you want?
So you lost the job. Is that what you're telling me? He just up and fired you?
It was more complicated than that. There was a reason.
Well?
It wasn't my fault.
If you don't tell me what happened, how do you expect me to know that? I need facts, not opinions.
The water was dripping, see... I turned it off, but it was still dripping, and then Auggie had to go out, and so I left the back room ... And later on ... well, later on ... when Auggie came back ... the whole place was flooded. His Cuban cigars got all messed up ... You know, soaked through ... just when he was about to sell them ... to these rich guys in suits....
Cuban cigars. You mean he had some hankypanky going with those guys?
I suppose so. He never told me about it.
No wonder he was angry.
He was out five thousand bucks, he said.... He kept saying it over and over.... Five thousand bucks down the drain.... He wouldn't stop.... Five thousand bucks, five thousand bucks.... He was like out of his mind with those five thousand bucks....
Here's what you're going to do. You're going to open up your backpack, take out your bag of money, count out five thousand dollars, and hand it over to Auggie.
What are you talking about? You can't be serious.
I'm serious, all right. You've got to square it with Auggie. Since you won't give the money back to the Creeper, you can use it to make things right with Auggie. That's probably better anyway. Better to keep your friends than to worry about your enemies.
I'm not going to do it.
You'll do it, all right. You fuck up, you've got to undo the damage. That's how it works, buster. If you don't do it, I'm going to throw you out of here. Do you understand me? If you don't pay Auggie what you owe him. I'm finished with you.
I pay Auggie, and I've got nothing. Eight hundred bucks and a ticket to Shit City.
Don't worry about it. You've got friends now, remember? Just behave yourself, and everything will work out.
Fuck you, too, you white sonofabitch.
Good. I'm glad that's settled!
Hi, kid.
Wow. They sure did a job on you.
Research. I worked the scene right into my story. That makes the medical bills one hundred percent tax deductible.
We came here to deliver some clean laundry.
It's all right. I really do know them.
If it doesn't make any difference, why not just say it?
I was going to tell him ... but in my own time. In my own time... .
Like it or not, Cyrus, that's my name. Cole. Just like yours.
Now ask him who his mother was.
Hey, Jimmy. You got the time?
Huh?
You still have that watch Auggie gave you?
Ticktock, ticktock.
So what's the time?
Twelveeleven. Twelvetwelve. Twelvetwelve.
I'll tell you why they're not going anywhere.
Yeah? And why is that?
Management. Those guys are walking around with their heads up their asses.
Okay, joke about it. I don't give a shit.
Jesus, Tommy, it ain't science, you know. You got your good trades and your bad trades. That's how it works.
They didn't have to do a thing, that's all I'm saying. The team was good, the best fucking team in baseball. But then they had to screw it up. They traded their birthright for a mess of porridge. A mess of porridge.
Sure. He's the guy who threw his cloak down over the puddle.
I used to smoke Raleigh cigarettes. They came with a free gift coupon in every pack.
Of course there's gonna be a war. You think they'd send five hundred thousand troops over there just to lie in the sun? I mean, there's plenty of beach, but not a hell of a lot of water. Half a million soldiers. It ain't no seaside holiday, you can bet on that.
I don't know, Tommy. You think anyone gives a rat's ass about Kuwait? I read something about the head sheik over there. He marries a different virgin every Friday and then divorces her on Monday. You think we want to have our kids dying for a guy like that?
Yeah? Who is it?
It's me, honey. It's Mom.
Well?
Well what?
Aren't you going to say anything?
What do you want me to say?
I don't know. Hello, Mom. Hello, Dad. Something like that.
I don't got no daddy, you dig? I got born last week when some dog fucked you up the ass.
Be nice, sweetie. We're just here to help you.
Help? What the fuck do I need your help for? I've got a man, don't I? That's more than you can say for yourself, Hawkeye.
You can do whatever you want with your own life. We're thinking of the baby, that's all. We want you to get yourself cleaned up for the baby. Before it's too late.
Baby? And what baby is that?
Your baby. The baby you're carrying around inside you.
Yeah, well, there ain't no baby in there now. You dig? There's nothing in there now.
What are you talking about?
An abortion, stupid. I had an abortion the day before yesterday. So you don't have to bug me about that shit anymore. Byebye, baby!
You going to sit here all day?
I don't know. I haven't decided yet.
Why don't you pick some other spot? It gives a man the creeps to be stared at all morning.
It's a free country, isn't it? As long as I'm not trespassing on your property. I can stay here till kingdom come.
Let me give you some useful information, son. There's two dollars and fiftyseven cents in that cash register over there and considering all the time you've put in casing the joint so far, you won't make but about fifty cents an hour for all your pains. However you slice it, that's a losing proposition.
I'm not going to rob you, mister. Do I look like a thief?
I don't know what you look like, boy. As far as I can tell, you sprouted up like a mushroom in this spot last night. You live in this town  or on your way from here to there?
Just passing through.
Just passing through. A lonesome traveler with a knapsack on his back plops himself across from my garage to admire the view. There's other places to roam, kid, that's all I'm saying. You don't want to make a nuisance of yourself.
I'm working on a sketch. That old garage of yours is so rundown, it's kind of interesting.
It's rundown, all right. But drawing a picture won't improve the way it looks. Let's see what you did, Rembrandt.
It'll cost you five bucks.
Five bucks! You mean you're going to charge me five bucks just to look at it?
Once you look at it, you're going to want to buy it from me. That's guaranteed. And that's the price: five bucks. So if you're not willing to spring for it, you might as well not bother to look. It'll just tear you up inside and make you miserable.
Sonofabitch. You're some piece of work, aren't you?
I just tell it like it is, mister. If I'm getting on your nerves, though, you might want to think about hiring me.
Do you have eyes in your head, or are those brown things bulging out of your sockets just marbles? You've been sitting here all day, and how many cars have you seen drive up and ask for gas?
Not a one.
Not a one. Not one customer all day. I bought this brokendown shithole of a place three weeks ago, and if business don't pick up soon, I'm going straight down the skids. What do I want to be hiring someone for? I can't even pay my own wages.
It was just a thought.
Yeah, well, do your thinking somewhere else, Michelangelo. I got work to do.
I'll tell you what. You want to work. I'll give you a job. Nothing permanent, mind you, but that upstairs room over there  the one above the office  is a hell of a mess. It looks like they've been throwing junk in there for twenty years, and it's time it got cleaned up.
What's your offer?
Five bucks an hour. That's the going rate, isn't it? It's a quarter past two now. My wife's picking me up at fivethirty, so that'll give you about three hours. If you can't finish today, you can do the rest tomorrow.
Is there a benefits package, or are you hiring me on a freelance basis?
Benefits?
You know, health insurance, dental plan, paid vacation. It's not fun being exploited. Workers have to stand up for their rights.
I'm afraid we'll be working on a strictly freelance basis.
Five dollars an hour? I'll take it.
The name is Cyrus Cole.
Paul. Paul Benjamin.
I don't mean to be nosy, but I was wondering what happened to your arm.
An ugly piece of hardware, isn't it? I'll tell you what happened to my arm. I'll tell you what happened. Twelve years ago, God looked down on me and said, "Cyrus, you're a bad, stupid, selfish man. First of all, I'm going to fill your body with spirits, and then I'm going to put you behind the wheel of a car, and then I'm going to make you crash that car and kill the woman who loves you. But you, Cyrus, I'm going to let you live, because living is a lot worse than death. And just so you don't forget what you did to that poor girl, I'm going to rip off your arm and replace it with a hook. If I wanted to, I could rip off both your arms and both your legs, but I'm going to be merciful and just take off your left arm. Every time you look at your hook, I want you to remember what a bad, stupid, selfish man you are. Let that be a lesson to you, Cyrus, a warning to mend your ways."
And have you mended them?
I don't know. I try. Every day I keep on trying, but it's no easy task for a man to change his nature. I'm off the booze, though. Haven't had a drop in six years. And now I've got me a wife. Doreen. Best damned woman I've ever known. And a little boy, too. Cyrus Junior. So things have definitely improved since I got fitted with this hook. If I can just turn this goddamn garage around, I'll be in pretty good shape.
You named the kid after yourself, huh?
That boy's one in a million. A real tiger.
It's only temporary. On a freelance basis.
And this one, in case you haven't guessed, is Junior.
Hi there, little brother.
Say hi to Paul.
That's funny. His name is the same as yours.
Well, you and Junior have the same name, too, don't you?
Yeah, but he's my son. Nothing strange about that. He's my own flesh and blood. But here you got the same name as this man here, and you're not even the same color.
That's how we met. We're members of the International Same Name Club. Believe it or not, there are 846 Paul Benjamins in America. But only two in the New York metropolitan area. That's how Paul and I got to be such good friends. We're the only ones who show up at the meetings.
Thomas.
Paul. Rashid. Thomas. Which one is it?
Thomas.
Thomas Cole. My name is Thomas Jefferson Cole.
Are you making fun of me? I won't be mocked. Do you hear me? I won't let no punk kid stand there and mock me!
I don't like this. I don't like it one bit.
Louisa Vail. Remember her, Cyrus?
You shut your mouth! You shut your mouth now!
Is your name Paul Benjamin?
What can I do for you?
I just want to know what your game is, mister, that's all.
How the hell did you get into the building?
What do you mean, how'd I get in? I pushed the door and walked in. What do you think?
The damn lock's broken again. And so you just barge in on strangers, is that what you do? Is that your game?
I'm looking for my nephew, Thomas.
Thomas? Who's Thomas?
Don't give me any of that. I know he's been here. You can't fool me, mister.
I'm telling you. I don't know anyone named Thomas.
Thomas Cole. Thomas Jefferson Cole. My nephew.
You mean Rashid?
Rashid? Rashid! Is that what he told you his name was?
Well, whatever his name is, he's not here anymore. He left two days ago, and I haven't heard from him since.
And what was he doing here in the first place? That's what I want to know. What's a man like you messing around with a black boy like Thomas for? Are you some kind of pervert, or what?
Look, lady, that's enough. If you don't calm down. I'm going to throw you out. Do you hear me? Right now!
I just want to know where he is.
As far as I know, he went back to his parents.
His parents? Is that what he told you? His parents?
That's what he said. He told me he lived with his mother and father on East Seventyfourth Street.
I always knew that boy had an imagination, but now he's gone and made up a whole new life for himself. Do you mind if I sit down? He's been living with me and his uncle Henry since he was a baby. And we don't live in Manhattan. We live in Boerum Hill. In the projects.
He doesn't go to the Trinity School?
He goes to John Jay High School in Brooklyn.
And his parents?
His mother's dead, and he hasn't seen his father in twelve years.
I shouldn't have let him go.
Which brings me back to my original question. What was he doing here in the first place?
I was about to get run over by a car, and your nephew pulled me back. He saved my life. I sensed he was in trouble, so I offered to put him up for a few days. Maybe I should have pressed him a little more, I don't know. I feel pretty stupid about it now.
He's in trouble, all right. But I don't have any idea what it is.
Do you want something to drink? A beer? A glass of water?
No thank you.
Has anything happened lately? Anything unusual or unexpected?
Well, one thing I suppose, but I don't think it has anything to do with this. A friend of mine called about two weeks ago and said she'd spotted Thomas's father working at some gas station outside of Peekskill.
And you told your nephew about it?
I figured he had a right to know.
And?
And nothing. Thomas looked at me straight in the eye and said, "I don't have a father. As far as I'm concerned, that sonofabitch is dead."
Those are pretty hostile words.
His father walked out on his mother a couple of months after he was born. Louisa was Henry's younger sister, and she and the baby moved in with us. Four or five years go by, and then one day Cyrus shows up out of the blue, tail between his legs, wanting to patch things up with Louisa. I thought Henry was going to tear Cyrus apart when he saw him walk through the door. They're both big men, those two, and if they ever started to tangle, you'd see some teeth jumping on the floor. I guarantee it ... So Cyrus persuaded Louisa to go out with him to talk things over in quiet. And the poor girl never came back.
You mean she just ran off with him and left her little boy behind?
Don't put words in my mouth. What I'm saying is she drove off in Cyrus's car and went to the FiveSpot Lounge with him for a drink. What I'm saying is that he imbibed too much in the way of alcohol and that when they finished their little talk three hours later and got back in the car, he was in no shape to drive. But he drove the car anyway, and before he could get her back to where she lived, the damn fool ran a red light and went straight into a truck. Louisa got thrown through the windshield and was killed. Cyrus lived, but he came out of it a cripple. His left arm was so mangled, the doctors had to cut it off. Small punishment for what he did, if you ask me.
Jesus.
Jesus had nothing to do with it. If He'd been involved. He would have seen to it that things worked out the opposite from what they did.
It can't have been easy on him. Walking around with that on his conscience all these years.
No, I don't suppose it has. He was broken up like nobody's business in that hospital when he found out Louisa was dead.
And he's never tried to get in touch with his son?
Henry told Cyrus he'd kill him if he ever showed his face around our house again. When Henry makes a threat like that, people tend to take him seriously.
They don't come cheap, son. These little honeys are works of art. Rolled by hand in a tropical climate, most likely by an eighteen year old girl in a thin cotton dress with no underwear on. Little beads of sweat forming in her naked cleavage. The smooth, delicate fingers nimbly turning out one masterpiece after another...
And how much are these?
Seventyeight dollars. The girl who rolled these was probably wearing panties.
And these?
Fiftysix. That girl had on a corset.
And these?
Fortyfour. They're on special this week from the Canary Islands. A real bargain.
I think I'll take them.
A good choice. You wouldn't want to celebrate the birth of your firstborn with a box of stinkers, would you? Remember to keep them in the refrigerator until you hand them out.
The refrigerator?
It'll keep them fresh. If they get too dry, they'll break. And you don't want that to happen, do you? Tobacco is a plant, and it needs the same loving care you'd give an orchid.
Thanks for the tip.
Any time. And congratulations to you and your wife. Just remember, though, in the immortal words of Rudyard Kipling: "A woman is just a woman, but a cigar is a smoke.
What does that mean?
Damned if I know. But it has a nice ring to it, don't it?
How'd you do out there, Jimmy?
Good, Auggie. Real good. All finished.
It'll never be finished.
Huh?
That's how it is with sidewalks. People come, people go, and they all drop shit on the ground. As soon as you clean up one spot and move on to the next, the first spot is dirty again.
I just do what you tell me, Auggie. You tell me to sweep, so I sweep.
Sure, Auggie, I got it. The store's closed. And when do I tell them it's open?
When I tell you it's open. It's open when I tell you it's open!
Okay, Auggie, I got it. You don't have to yell.
... If it happens, it happens. If it doesn't, it doesn't. Do you understand what I'm saying? You never know what's going to happen next, and the moment you think you know, that's the moment you don't know a goddamn thing. That's what we call a paradox. Are you following me?
Sure, Auggie. I follow. When you don't know nothing, it's like paradise. I know what that is. It's after you're dead and you go up to heaven and sit with the angels.
Jesus, man, you're one fucking mess.
Does it hurt?
Of course it hurts. What does it look like?
I thought maybe he was pretending.
Seventeen.
Seventeen? I remember when I was seventeen. Christ, I was one little whackedout sonofabitch when I was seventeen. Is that what you are, son? One little whackedout crazy fella?
Definitely. I'd say you've hit the nail on the head.
Good. Keep it up, and maybe one day you'll grow up and become a great man like me.
A job? I definitely wouldn't turn down a job.
Come around to the cigar store tomorrow morning at ten o'clock and we'll talk about it, okay? We'll see what we can work out.
Ten o'clock tomorrow morning. I'll be there.
I'll be back in about an hour. Watch the register while I'm gone, okay?
Sure thing. See you later.
A little. Not much.
This way, gentlemen. Let's retire to my office, shall we?
It's for you.
For me? And what am I supposed to do with a paper bag?
Open it.
What is this, some kind of joke?
No, it's five thousand dollars.
Shit. I don't want your money, you little twerp. It's probably stolen anyway.
What do you care where it comes from? It's yours.
And why the hell would you give me money?
So I can get my job back.
Your job? You've got five thousand bucks. What do you want a pieceofshit job like that for?
To look at the dirty magazines. I can see all the naked women I want, and it doesn't cost me a cent.
You're a dumb, whackedout little fuck, do you know that?
Come on, come on, you yellow belly. The whole thing. First name and last name.
What difference does it make?
Okay. I think everything's set. You've got the number for Cape Cod, right? Just in case something goes wrong.
No problem, Vinnie. Everything's under control. I could run this store in my sleep.
How long you been working for me, Auggie?
I don't know. Thirteen, fourteen years. Something like that.
It's pretty crazy, don't you think? I mean, a smart guy like you. What do you want to hang on to a deadend job like this for?
I don't know. Maybe because I love you so much, boss.
Shit. You should have been married to someone by now. You know, settled down somewhere with a kid or two, a nice steady job.
I almost got married once.
Yeah, I know. To that girl who moved to Pittsburgh.
Ruby McNutt. My one true love.
Sounds like another one of your stories to me.
She upped and married some other cat after I joined the navy. By the time I got my discharge, though, she was divorced. Her husband poked out her eye in a domestic quarrel.
Lovely.
She made a play for me after I got back, but her glass eye kept interfering with my concentration. Every time we got into a clinch, I'd start thinking about that hole in her head, that empty socket with the glass eye in it. An eye that couldn't see, an eye that couldn't shed any tears. The minute I started thinking about it, Mr. Johnson would get all soft and small. And I can't see getting married if Mr. Johnson isn't going to be in tiptop shape.
You don't take anything seriously, do you?
I try not to, anyway. It's better for your health. I mean, look at you, Vincent. You're the guy with the wife and three kids and the ranch house on Long Island. You're the guy with the white shoes and the white Caddy and the white shag carpet. But you've had two heart attacks, and I'm still waiting for my first.
I should stop smoking these damn things is what I should do. The fuckers are going to kill me one day.
Enjoy it while you can, Vin. Pretty soon, they're going to legislate us out of business anyway.
They catch you smoking tobacco, they'll stand you up against a wall and shoot you.
Tobacco today, sex tomorrow. In three or four years, it'll probably be against the law to smile at strangers.
Speaking of which, are you still going ahead with that deal on the Montecristos?
It's all set. My guy in Miami said he'd have them within the next few weeks. Are you sure you don't want to go in with me? Five thousand dollars outlay, a guaranteed tenthousanddollar return. A consortium of Court Street lawyers and judges. They're just drooling to get their lips around some genuine Cuban cigars.
No thanks. I don't care what you do, but just make sure you don't get caught, okay? The last I heard, it was still illegal to sell Cuban cigars in this country.
It's the law that's buying. That's what's so beautiful about it. I mean, when was the last time you heard of a judge sending himself to jail?
Suit yourself. But don't keep the boxes around here long.
They come in, they go out. I've got it planned to the last detail.
I've got to get moving. Terry will bust my chops if I'm late. See you in September, Auggie.
Okay, my man. Love to the wife and kids, et cetera, et cetera. Drop me a postcard if you can remember the address.
Christ, Ruby, it's been so long. I figured you were dead.
Eighteen and a half years.
Is that all? I thought it was about three hundred.
You're looking good, Auggie.
No I'm not. I look like shit. And so do you, Ruby. You look just awful. What's with the patch, anyway? What'd you do with that old blue marble  hock it for a bottle of gin?
I don't want to talk about it. If you really want to know. I lost it. And I'm not sorry I did. That eye was cursed, Auggie, and it never gave me nothing but grief.
And you think it looks better to go around dressed up like Captain Hook?
You always were a sonofabitch, weren't you? A little weasel with a quick, dirty mouth.
At least I've stayed true to myself. Which is more than I can say about some people.
I've got something to talk to you about, and the least you can do is listen. You owe me that much. I drove all the way from Pittsburgh to see you, and I'm not going until you've heard me out.
Talk away, lady of my dreams. I'm all ears.
This is private, Auggie. Just between you and I.
You heard her, pipsqueak. The lady and I have private business to discuss. Go outside and stand in front of the door. If anyone tries to come in, tell 'em we're closed. You got that?
All right, sugar, what's on your mind?
Don't look at me like that. Auggie. It gives me the creeps.
Like what?
Like what you're doing. I'm not going to eat you up. I need your help, and if you keep staring at me like that. I might start screaming.
Help, huh? And I don't suppose this help has anything to do with money, does it?
Don't rush me, okay? You're jumping to conclusions before I've even said anything. And besides, it's not for me. It's for our daughter.
Our daughter? Is that what you said? Our daughter? I mean, you might have a daughter, but I sure as hell don't. And even if I did  which I don't  she wouldn't be our daughter.
Her name is Felicity, and she just turned eighteen. She ran away from Pittsburgh last year, and now she's living in some shithole here in Brooklyn with a guy named Chico. Strung out on crack, four months pregnant. I can't bear to think about that baby. Our grandchild, Auggie. Just think of it. Our grandchild.
Stop it, already. Just stop all this crap right now. Was that your idea to call her Felicity?
It means "happiness."
I know what it means. That still don't make it a good name.
I don't know who else to turn to, Auggie.
You've suckered me before, darling, remember? Why should I believe you now?
Why would I lie to you, Auggie? You think it was easy to come here and walk into this place? Why would I do it if I didn't have to?
That's what you told me when I shoplifted that necklace for you. You remember, baby, don't you? The judge gave me a choice: either go to the can or enlist. So, instead of going to college, I wind up in the navy for four years, I watch men lose their arms and legs, I nearly get my head blown off, and you, sweet Ruby McNutt, you run off and marry that asshole, Bill.
You didn't write to me for more than a year. What was I supposed to think?
Yeah, well, I lost my pen. By the time I got a new one, I was clean out of paper.
It was over with Bill before you ever came home. Maybe you don't remember it now, but you were pretty hot to see me back then.
You weren't so lukewarm yourself. At least at first.
It fizzled, baby. That's the way it goes. But we had our times, didn't we? It wasn't all bad.
A couple of moments, I'll grant you that. A second or two snatched from the jaws of eternity.
And that's how Felicity came into the picture. During one of those two seconds.
You're conning me, sweetheart. I ain't responsible for no baby.
Then why do you think I married Frank? I was already pregnant, and I didn't have much time. Say what you like, but at least he gave my kid a name.
Good old Frank. And how is fat Mr. Grease Monkey these days?
Who the hell knows? He dropped out of sight fifteen years ago.
Fifteen years ago? It won't wash, pumpkin. No mother waits fifteen years to tell a man he's a father. I wasn't born yesterday, you know.
I thought I could handle it. I didn't want to bug you. I thought I could handle it on my own, but I couldn't. She's in real bad, Auggie.
Nice try, old girl. I'd like to help you out. You know, for old time's sake. But all my spare cash is tied up in a business venture, and I haven't collected my profits yet. Too bad. You caught me at the wrong time.
You're a coldhearted bastard, aren't you? How'd you ever get so mean, Auggie?
I know you think I'm lying to you, but I'm not. Every word I told you is the God's honest truth.
Get in, Auggie. I've got something to show you.
You don't give up, do you?
Just get in and shut up. I'm not asking you to do anything. I just need you to come with me.
Where to?
Dammit, Auggie, don't ask so many questions. Just get in the car.
I told her she was going to meet her father.
You what?
It was the only way, Auggie. Otherwise, she wasn't going to let me see her.
I think you'd better stop the car and let me out.
Relax, okay? You don't have to do anything. Just go in there and pretend. It won't kill you to do a little favor like that. Besides, you might even learn something.
Yeah, like what?
That I wasn't bullshitting you, sweetheart. At least you'll know I've been telling the truth.
Look, I'm not saying you don't have a daughter. It's just that she's not my daughter.
Wait till you see her, Auggie.
And what's that supposed to mean?
She looks just like you.
Cut it out. Just cut it out, okay? It's starting to get on my nerves.
When I told her I was going to bring her father, she kind of melted. It's the first time Felicity's talked nice to me since she left home. She's dying to meet you, Auggie.
Jesus Christ. This is all I need.
You told me you wanted to meet him. Well,here he is.
So you're just going to give up and go home?
I don't have much choice, do I? It's pretty clear she doesn't want me around.
Still, you can't just write her off.
Yeah? And what else am I supposed to do? There's no baby anymore, and if she wants to throw away her life, that's her business.
She's just a kid. There's time for more babies later. After she grows up.
Dream on, Auggie. She'll be lucky to make it to her nineteenth birthday.
Not if you got her into one of those rehab programs.
I'd never be able to talk her into it. And even if I could, those things cost money. And that's just what I don't have. I'm flat out dead broke.
No you're not.
Are you calling me a liar? I'm telling you I'm broke. I don't even have insurance on my goddamned car.
Remember that business venture I was telling you about? Well, my tugboat came in. I'm flush.
Bully for you.
No, bully for you.
What's this?
Why don't you open it and find out?
Jesus God, Auggie. There's money in here.
Five thousand bucks.
And you're giving it to me?
It's all yours, baby.
For keeps?
For keeps.
I can't believe it. Oh God, I can't believe it. You're an angel, Auggie. An angel from heaven.
Fuck this angel shit. Just take the dough, Ruby. But no bawling, okay? I can't stand people who blubber.
I'm sorry, baby. I can't help it.
There's just one thing I want to know.
Anything, Auggie. Just name it.
Hey, Auggie. How's it going?
Hey, man. Good to see you. What'll it be today?
Two tins of Schimmelpennincks. And throw in a lighter while you're at it.
The boys and I were just having a philosophical discussion about women and cigars. Some interesting connections there, don't you think?
Definitely. I suppose it all goes back to Queen Elizabeth.
The Queen of England?
Not Elizabeth the Second, Elizabeth the First. Did you ever hear of Sir Walter Raleigh?
Seven eightyfive out of twenty. Take care of yourself now, and don't do anything I wouldn't do.
I wouldn't think of it. See you around, fellas.
Are you closed?
You run out of Schimmelpennincks?
Do you think I could buy some before you leave?
No problem. It's not as though I'm rushing off to the opera or anything.
Looks like someone forgot a camera.
Yeah, I did.
It's yours?
It's mine all right. I've owned that little sucker for a long time.
I didn't know you took pictures.
I guess you could call it a hobby. It doesn't take me more than about five minutes a day to do it, but I do it every day. Rain or shine, sleet or snow. Sort of like the postman. Sometimes it feels like my hobby is my real job, and my job is just a way to support my hobby.
So you're not just some guy who pushes coins across a counter.
That's what people see, but that ain't necessarily what I am.
How'd you get started?
Taking pictures? It's a long story. I'd need two or three drinks to get through that one.
A photographer ...
Well, let's not exaggerate. I take pictures. You line up what you want in the viewfinder and click the shutter. No need to mess around with all that artisto crap.
I'd like to see your pictures some day.
It can be arranged. Seeing as how I've read your books. I don't see why I shouldn't share my pictures with you. It would be an honor.
They're all the same.
That's right. More than four thousand pictures of the same place. The corner of 3rd Street and Seventh Avenue at eight o'clock in the morning. Four thousand straight days in all kinds of weather. That's why I can never take a vacation. I've got to be in my spot every morning. Every morning in the same spot at the same time.
I've never seen anything like it.
It's my project. What you'd call my life's work.
Amazing. I'm not sure I get it, though. I mean, how did you ever come up with the idea to do this ... this project?
I don't know, it just came to me. It's my corner, after all. It's just one little part of the world, but things happen there, too, just like everywhere else. It's a record of my little spot.
It's kind of overwhelming.
You'll never get it if you don't slow down, my friend.
What do you mean?
I mean, you're going too fast. You're hardly even looking at the pictures.
But they're all the same.
They're all the same, but each one is different from every other one. You've got your bright mornings and your dark mornings. You've got your summer light and your autumn light. You've got your weekdays and your weekends. You've got your people in overcoats and galoshes, and you've got your people in shorts and Tshirts. Sometimes the same people, sometimes different ones. And sometimes the different ones become the same, and the same ones disappear. The earth revolves around the sun, and every day the light from the sun hits the earth at a different angle.
Slow down, huh?
Yeah, that's what I'd recommend. You know how it is. Tomorrow and tomorrow and tomorrow, time creeps on its petty pace.
Yeah. There she is. She's in quite a few from that year. She must have been on her way to work.
It's Ellen. Look at her. Look at my sweet darling.
Hey, man, good to see you.
This is April Lee, Auggie. April, say hello to Auggie Wren.
So, what brings you to a dive like this?
It's his birthday so we decided to whoop it up a little.
How old, kid?
Hey, Auggie, I've just been thinking. You wouldn't need some help around the store, would you? Some summer help while Vinnie's gone?
Help? Hmm. It's possible. What did you have in mind?
I'm thinking about the kid. I'm sure he'd do a good job for you.
Hey, kid. You interested in a job? I just got word from your employment agency that you're looking for a position in retail sales.
The kid's sorry, Auggie.
Yeah, well, I'm sorry too. It took me three years to save up those five thousand bucks, and now I'm broke. I can't hardly pay for this beer. Not to speak of having my credibility destroyed. Do you understand what I'm saying? My credibility. So yeah, I'm sorry, too. About as sorry as I've ever been in my whole fucking life.
He's got something to tell you, Auggie.
If he's got something to tell me, why don't he tell it to me himself?
Don't be an ass, Auggie. He's trying to make it up to you, can't you see that?
He's crazy.
No, he's not. You are.
You're right. I just wasn't sure you knew.
It's written all over you like a neon sign. Now say something nice to Rashid to make him feel better.
Fuck you, kid.
It could have been worse. If the cops hadn't come, I might not be standing here now.
Cops? You mean they nabbed those cruds?
No. The ... uh ... the Bobbsey Twins lit out when they heard the sirens. But at least they stopped playing that marimba duet on my skull. Assaultus interruptus.
Fuckus my assus. They did some number on you.
For once in my life I managed to keep my mouth shut. There's something to be said for that, I suppose.
You haven't heard from Rashid, have you?
Not a peep.
I spoke to his aunt a couple of days ago, but she hasn't heard from him either. It's beginning to get a little scary.
That could be a good sign, though. It could mean that he got away.
Or didn't. There's no way of knowing, is there?
So what did he say when he called?
Nothing much. He said his socks and underpants were dirty, and would we mind driving up with his things. Fucking kids, huh? They take you for granted every time.
Nice machine, Auggie. Where'd you find it?
It's Tommy's. The sucker owed me a favor.
It's not a long drive. An hour, an hour and a half. We'll be back in time for dinner.
We'd better be. I haven't spent a night out of Brooklyn in fourteen years, and I'm not about to break my record now. Besides, I've got to be on my corner at eight sharp tomorrow morning.
Hey, man, how's it going?
Hi, Auggie.
Two, right?
Uh, better make it one.
You usually get two.
Yeah, I know, but I'm trying to cut down. Somebody's worried about my health.
Ahhah.
Fine. Or it was until a couple of days ago. A guy from The New York Times called and asked me to write a Christmas story. They want to publish it on Christmas Day.
That's a feather in your cap, man. The paper of record.
Yeah, great. The problem is, I have four days to come up with something, and I don't have a single idea. You know anything about Christmas stories?
Christmas stories? Sure, I know a ton of 'em.
Anything good?
Good? Of course. Are you kidding? I'll tell you what. Buy me lunch, my friend, and I'll tell you the best Christmas story you ever heard. How's that? And I guarantee every word of it is true.
It doesn't have to be true. It just has to be good.
Take over the register while I'm gone, okay, Jimmy?
I have to pee. If the waiter comes, order me a corned beef on rye and a ginger ale, okay?
You got it.
So. Are we ready?
Ready. Any time you are.
I'm all ears.
Okay. You remember how you once asked me how I started taking pictures? Well, this is the story of how I got my first camera. As a matter of fact, it's the only camera I've ever had. Are you following me so far?
Every word.
Okay. So this is the story of how it happened. Okay. It was the summer of 'seventysix, back when I first started working for Vinnie. The summer of the bicentennial. A kid came in one morning and started stealing things from the store. He's standing by the rack of paperbacks near the front window stuffing skin magazines under his shirt. It was crowded around the counter just then, so I didn't see him at first....
Did you ever go back to see her?
Once, about three or four months later. I felt so bad about stealing the camera, I hadn't even used it yet. I finally made up my mind to return it, but Granny Ethel wasn't there anymore. Someone else had moved into the apartment, and he couldn't tell me where she was.
She probably died.
Yeah, probably.
Which means that she spent her last Christmas with you.
I guess so. I never thought of it that way.
It was a good deed, Auggie. It was a nice thing you did for her.
I lied to her, and then I stole from her. I don't see how you can call that a good deed.
You made her happy. And the camera was stolen anyway. It's not as if the person you took it from really owned it.
Anything for art, eh, Paul?
I wouldn't say that. But at least you've put the camera to good use.
And now you've got your Christmas story, don't you?
Yes, I suppose I do.
What do you mean?
I mean, it's a good story.
Shit. If you can't share your secrets with your friends, what kind of friend are you?
Exactly. Life just wouldn't be worth living, would it?
What'll it be, Auggie?
Uh... My friend over here would like a corned beef on rye and a ginger ale.
And what about for you?
Huh?
What about for you?
For me? I'll have the same thing.
Do me a favor, will you?
What's that, Sol?
Next time, when you want two corned beef sandwiches, say, "Two corned beef sandwiches." When you want two ginger ales, say, "Two ginger ales."
What's the difference?
It's simpler, that's what. It makes things go faster.
Uh, sure, Sol. Anything you say. Instead of saying, "One corned beef sandwich," and then, "Another corned beef sandwich," I'll say, "Two corned beef sandwiches."
Thanks. I knew you'd understand.
Will that be cash or charge?
Better make it charge.
I thought I recognized you. You're Paul Benjamin the writer, aren't you?
I confess.
I keep waiting for the next novel to come out. Anything in the works?
So your mother grew up in Shanghai?
Until she was twelve. She moved here in 'fortynine.
And your father? Is he from New York?
Muncie, Indiana. He and my mother met as students. But I'm from Brooklyn. My sisters and I were all born and bred right here.
Just like me.
And the bookstore? Have you been working there long?
It's just a summer job. Something to help pay the bills while I finish my dissertation.
Your dissertation? What subject do you study?
American literature. What else?
What else. Of course, what else? And what are you writing about for your thesis?
Visions of Utopia in NineteenthCentury American Fiction.
Wow. You don't fool around, do you?
Of course I fool around. But not so much when it comes to my work, it's true. Have you ever read Pierre, or the Ambiguities?
Melville, huh? It's been a while.
That's the subject of my last chapter.
Not an easy book.
Which explains why this hasn't been the easiest summer of my life.
Jesus, what happened to you?
It looks worse than it is. I'm okay.
What happened?
I'll tell you all about it... ... but not here.
It's been a while. I thought maybe you'd be in touch.
Yeah, well, I've sort of been out of commission. How's Melville?
Almost done. A week or ten days, and I'll be there.
I finished my story. I thought you might want to take a look at it.
I'd love to.
Good. I hope you like it. It was a long time in coming.
I get off for lunch in ten minutes. Can I treat you to a hamburger?
Uh ... actually, it might be better if you read the story first. Call me when you're finished, okay?
Okay. I'll read it tonight and call you tomorrow. It doesn't seem to be too long.
Fortyone pages.
It's coming along. At the rate he's going, he'll have a story finished by the end of the summer.
Wonderful. When your next book is published, maybe you could come into the store and do a signing. I'm sure we could get a lot of people to show up.
What!
Perhaps I should rephrase the question. What I mean to say is, are you married or seriously involved with a significant other?
No! At least I don't think I am!
Good. Then may I have the honor of extending an invitation to you?
An invitation?
And what's the occasion of this celebration?
It's my birthday.
And how many people will be attending this birthday party?
I wouldn't actually call it a party. It's more along the lines of a dinner in celebration of my birthday. The guest list is quite restricted. So far, there's Mr. Benjamin and myself. If you accept, that would make three of us.
Ahhah, I see. A cozy dinner. But aren't threesomes a little awkward? How does the phrase go
Three's a crowd. Yes, I'm aware of that. But I have to keep an eye on Mr. Benjamin wherever he goes. To make sure he doesn't get himself into trouble.
And what are you, his chaperone?
Actually, I'm his father.
Like me, too.
I once read somewhere that one quarter of all the people in the United States have at least one relative who has lived in Brooklyn at one time or another.
No wonder it's such a screwedup place.
Also, Melinda, please don't tell anybody at the store that Albert was here tonight, okay.
Why?
Well, a lot of people in town talk and spread cruel rumors. Unfortunately, I have to keep certain parts of my life private.
You mean about y'all bein' together in "that" way?
Yes.
I think everybody at the store knows that already. They always talk about it. Maureen Ledbetter told a awful story about why you ain't allowed over at the First Baptist Church no more.
My name's Jerry Woolridge.
Nice to meet you. I'm Marsha Dwiggins and this is Theresa Evans. She's here to take the pictures.
Y'all have a seat. Is this all of you?
Yes sir.
I think there must have been a little mix up. I told your sponsor or teacher or whatever he is, there couldn't be any pictures. It's s'posed to be just a little story or article or something, isn't that right?
Well, yeah, it's for the school newspaper. But it has pictures. I mean it's a regular paper, you know.
Karl's real sensitive about having his picture made. He wouldn't even be on the bulletin board for the Easter Collage. Melvin, would you get me a good hot cup with two sugar substitutes? You girls want some coffee?
No thank you.
The other thing is I told your boss on the phone to send a man. Karl won't talk to women.
I don't know what to tell you. I'm sorry. I made myself pretty clear I thought. He probably got busy and wasn't thinking. I know how that is. I used to teach shop and eighth grade science.
Well, what do we do? We drove all the way out here.
Can't you talk to him? Maybe talk him into it. I'm a real good interviewer. Just get me in the room with him.
Melvin, go get Karl and take him down to the old classroom.
You see, Karl, growing up, only knew that sex was wrong and that people who did it should be killed for it. He couldn't really read but, well, neither could his mother. But, his father made sure that his mother knew what the Bible said. And she made sure Karl knew. You know he slept in a hole in the ground under a toolshed, right?
I knew he slept in a toolshed.
His mother told him that he was their punishment. Hers and his father's; from God, for having sex
Before they were married?
I don't think so. Just period, I think. She told him... God gave them the ugliest creation he could think of. Karl has an entire book  a notebook. On every page it says "Franklin Chapter 1 Verse number 1." He wrote that a few years ago after he'd learned to write. His father's name was Franklin.
That's really strange. What does it mean?
One of his Daddy's Bible lessons I imagine. Y'all pull up a chair. I'll go out and talk to him.
But, here's the thing. He'll only talk to you. He doesn't want you to ask him anything. And you shouldn't stare at him.
How am I going to conduct an interview if I can't ask him any questions?
It's the best you're gonna get. I'm sorry.
Can I ask you a question? If he's so troubled, why are you letting him out? What if he does it again? It happens all the time.
He's free. His time's up. That's the rules. He's been treated and reevaluated. He doesn't show any signs any more.
Signs?
Homicidal signs. Oh, we're gonna change the light in here for Karl. I hope you can see to write.
Is he leaving right this minute?
We've got some paperwork to take care of. Pretty soon. Don't worry, you won't run into him in the parking lot.
I didn't mean that.
I hope the best for you, Miss Dwiggins, with your school and your paper and all.
Where will he go?
Wherever he wants to. I think he's going back to Millsburg where he's from. It's just about twenty miles from here.
Will he be supervised?
As much as anybody else is, I guess. Y'all have a good rest of the day now.
I don't know why you're so weirded out, this is not San Quentin, it's just a nuthouse. Most of these people don't even know where they are, they're not gonna hurt you.
In a few minutes we're gonna be in a room with a killer. That doesn't bother you?
Hey, you're the one that wanted to major in journalism. Anyhow, wasn't the guy something like twelve or thirteen when he did it, it was twentyfive years ago, he probably doesn't even remember it.
Do you smell shit?
Yeah.
Let's just go, Marsha.
No, we have to get this story.
I thought you'd be happy to leave.
Why won't he talk to women?
Frank, don't talk that way. Who's that strange lookin' man behind you? Did he follow you in here?
Can I help you, sir?
He just got out of the state hospital.
I know.
Are you sure it's safe to let him around that guy?
Frank's just crazy about him. He likes the way he talks. He helped him carry home the clean laundry.
He's been in the state hospital a long time, something must be wrong with him.
He's retarded's all. You know he's always after a father figure and Lord knows Doyle ain't a good one with his mean ass.
What about me?
I don't think he sees you as a guy guy.
Karl is a guy guy?
Good. I haven't decided yet if I'm a good cook.
Hey Karl, you know what? Melinda was voted employee of the month at the Dollar Store last February. Isn't that somethin'?
Karl, maybe you and Melinda might want to take a walk or something after dinner. It's a nice night.
Vaughan, don't get pushy.
I'm sorry.
Listen everybody, I know this may sound corny, I've had a few glasses of wine and that kind of makes me a little emotional, but I'm going to say it anyway. It just came over me in a rush. I want you all to know that I care about each and every one of you at this table.
That's very sweet of you Vaughan. We care about you, too. Don't we y'all?
I don't think I've ever seen you before.
Naw, I don't believe you have. I don't reckon I never been in here. This store didn't used to be here.
It's been here seventeen years. Did you live here before or something?
I's horned and raised here up till I's twelve year old.
What brings you back?
What's that you say?
Why are you here now?
They turned me loose from the state hospital.
Is that right? Are you going to be staying here long?
I reckon Mr. Woolridge got me hired on to work for Bill Cox's outfit.
Do you have family here?
Not really to speak of.
Yes sir.
So, you're really going to stay here?
That boy wants me to.
Did you knock on the door yet?
Naw, I ain't.
How long have you been standing here?
Quite a spell, I reckon.
Listen, before you get very used to staying here, I think you and I need to talk about a few things. Can I take you to lunch?
I done et just a little bit ago.
I mean tomorrow or the next day.
I reckon I can stand to eat a little somethin' or 'nother at noontime tomorrow. Bill Cox generally gets me a box of french fried potaters. But I reckon he can lay off doin' it tomorrow.
Okay, I'll come by Mr. Cox's and get you at noon.
Okay, Karl, the reason I brought you here was to talk to you about something that is on my mind. I guess I'll put it right out on the table. Where do I start. Linda and Frank are very important to me. They're like family. My own family was never like family. They're horrible people. As a matter of fact I prayed every night for years that my father would die. I finally realized through a lot of therapy that I was wasting my energy on hating him. Now I just don't care. You see, you and I are a lot alike, strange as that may seem. I mean not physically or even mentally really, just well, maybe emotionally or actually the hand we've been dealt in life. We're different. People see us as being different anyway. You're  well you have your affliction or whatever and I, well mine's not as easy to see. I'm just going to say it. I'm gay. Does that surprise you? That I'm gay. You know what being gay is, don't you?
I reckon not.
Homosexual. I like men. Sexually.
Not funny, ha, ha, funny queer.
Well that's a very offensive way to put it. You shouldn't say that. You were taught that, weren't you?
I've heard it said that way.
Anyway, it's hard to live gay, that's the right way to say it, in a small town like this. I've wanted to leave many times, but my love for Linda and Frank and another certain person that we won't go into have kept me from it. Anyway, I'm rambling. If you're going to live in the Wheatly garage you need to know that it won't be easy. Doyle is a monster. Not just a closed minded redneck, but a monster. A dangerous person. I've told Linda that one day that man is going to really hurt her or that boy. Maybe even kill one of them. I see it in his eyes. I'm very in tune, maybe even psychic. Doyle will make your life hell. You're a perfect target. When I first saw you I was afraid of you. Not really afraid, I guess, just taken aback. But also, I felt a real sensitive feeling from you. And for some reason, Frank has adopted you. Much like a stray animal. I'm sorry, I didn't mean it like that. In a good way. Anyway, I just want you to know what you're in for. I have a good feeling about you. You're good for Frank. Maybe it's that he can have an adult friend on a child's level. I'm sorry, I didn't mean it in a bad way. There's one more thing. It's none of my business why you were in the state hospital. Everyone has something in their past, maybe you tried suicide, maybe you did something  terrible. But what I see before me is a gentle, simple man. All I want you to promise me is that you're capable of being around Linda and Frank. You know. You would never hurt them under any circumstances, would you?
I wouldn't never hurt them.
That's what I thought. I hope I haven't offended you in any way. You seem like a thinker. You seem to always be in deep thought. Tell me something. What are you thinking right now?
I was thinkin' I could use me another helpin' of these potaters.
Oh. How about before that?
Before that I was thinkin' it'd be good if I could get another three or four cans of that potted meat if you got any extry.
I think Karl is going to be a writer or a librarian eventually. You should see all the books he has. He must read constantly.
I ain't read 'em yet except two or three of 'em. I can't understand a lot of what I try to read. My mind, hit wonders off to somethin' else when I try to read.
Karl, what are you doing here? Come in.
I ain't astayin'. I need to ast you fer a favor.
Okay.
This evenin' I want you to go get Mizz Wheatley and that Frank and have them stay with you tonight.
What's wrong? Is everything okay?
That dern Doyle is in a bad way again with that drinkin' and bein' mean to folks. Will you give me your word you'll do it?
Well, sure, okay. He hasn't hurt them, has he?
Naw, not yet. I want ye to give this to Mizz Wheatley. Hit ain't much, but maybe there's a little somethin' to hep out. Hits what I've earned fixin' lawnmowers and whatnot fer Bill Cox.
What about you, Karl? Do you want to stay here?
I don't reckon you have to go with women to be a daddy to a boy. You've been real square dealin' with me. The Bible says two men ort not lay together. But I'll bet you the Good Lord wouldn't send nobody like you to Hades. Some folks calls it Hell, I call it Hades. That boy lives inside of his own heart. Hits an awful big place. You take care of that boy.
Hey, Vaughan. How are you, Karl?
Tolerable, I reckon.
Karl, this is my boyfriend, Doyle. Frank, why don't you and Karl go out in the garage and fix him up a place or play a game or somethin'. Vaughan, you ready to go?
You scared me.
I didn't aim to.
Want to sit down? Did you need somethin'?
No ma'am.
Two fellers was on a bridge a takin' a leak and one feller says the water was cold and the other said it was deep water. One of 'em came from Arkansas, I believe.
I'll be dog.
Do you reckon you can make me some biscuits?
Right now?
Just whenever you take a notion to. I don't aim to put you out.
Well, it is nearly breakfast time anyway. I can't go to sleep. I have to be at work in three hours. You know how it is when you just sleep an hour or two, you feel worse than if you hadn't slept at all?
Yes ma'am.
Well, set down and I'll make some biscuits and gravy.
Mustard's good on 'em to me.
Okay.
Thank ye.
It's all right. You know I was thinkin' there's this girl that works with me. She's real heavy, but she's cute in the face. Well, you know, she's slow. She's a little bit, I think. She's not retarded, just  it don't matter, listen to me. I thought you might like to meet her. Vaughan wants to have a little supper over at his house and we could invite her. Would you like that?
I wouldn't mind a havin' supper.
Vaughan's "friend" will be there, too. He works at the funeral home. And Frank. You know Frank likes you a lot. He says you make him feel calm.
I like Frank. He's a good boy. Me and him's made friends.
Hit ain't right for me to keep from tellin' you how come me to be put in the state hospital.
That's okay. It's not really my business. I have wondered though. Why was it? Was it like a nervous breakdown?
I killed my mother and a old boy name Jesse Dixon. I thought they was adoin' wrong. I was about your boy's age. They say I'm well now from it.
Was that you? I remember that. I was only three or four, but I always heard about it growin' up. They say you're well?
Yes ma'am. I like your garage. I wouldn't never hurt you or your boy. I'd lay my hand on the Bible and say the same thing.
I believe you. I really do.
Karl, why don't you and Melinda go take a walk. It's nice out.
All right then.
You're a hell of a boy, Frank. Someday you're gonna get all the good things you deserve. And Karl here's gonna get some more biscuits tonight. What do you think about that?
I could shore use some. Thank ye.
Where are you goin', Karl? Didn't you want some chicken and things?
No ma'am. I'm a'goin' off sommers.
Well, okay. I got you some.
Frank, he went off, too. He ain't gonna be in there when you get indoors.
Where'd he go? What's goin' on?
He wanted to go off and play, I reckon. You go in there and you and that Doyle eat ye dinner. You don't have to worry yourself none.
All right then. Well, I'll see you later. If you see Frank, tell him to come on back home. I don't get to see him all day except Sundays. He can play tomorrow.
Ma'am?
Yeah.
You're a good mama to that boy. You care for him. You work hard fer him to take care of him. You light him up in his eyes, I've seen it. He wouldn't know what to do without ye.
Well thank you, hun. That's real good of you to say. I wouldn't know what to do without him either.
You've been real good to me, too. It ain't ever'body that'd make biscuits in the middle of the night. You and that boy has give me a good feelin'.
We sure like havin' you.
Thank ye. I'm just getting around to tellin' you, but I fixed your warshin' machine.
I reckon I'm gonna have to get used to looking at pretty people.
Yes, I guess you are.
I reckon I'm gonna have to get used to them lookin' at me, too.
You better go get your things.
I ain't got nothing but them books.
You better go get 'em.
All right then.
Karl, what in the world are you doing here?
I want to come back and stay here.
Well, you can't do that. You're a free man. You've been let out to do as you please.
I reckon I don't care nothin' about bein' a free man. I don't know how to go about it.
Well, you have to learn. It'll take some time. Don't you know anybody down there to help you out?
Naw.
Your daddy's still livin' down there from what you told me. I guess he wouldn't help you any, would he? I wasn't thinking. You don't know anybody?
Naw. Never did know too much of nobody. Not to he'p me out anyway.
Listen, Karl, the truth is I don't know where they expect you to go or what they expect you to do. If it was up to me, I'd let you stay here if that's what you wanted. I'm just doin' my job. You follow me? Listen, I know an old boy that runs a fixit shop deal down in Millsburg. He used to go to church with me. You're good workin' on small engines and things. If I put my neck out for you with him, will you work at it if he'll hire you?
I'm pretty handy I reckon on lawn mowers and whatnot.
I know, I've seen it myself. Would you give that a try?
I reckon.
I can't promise he'll hire you. I'll have to tell him about your history.
I never was no good with history.
No, I mean your past. About why you were in here. I'll take you first thing in the mornin'. You have anyplace you can stay tonight at all? I just can't let you stay here. It's the rules. If something happened well, I'd be liable.
I reckon I can just walk around till the mornin'. Or set and read me a book somewhere.
She's talkin' about me, Karl. That's my first name.
He's acarryin' me to look fer work in Millsburg where I was borned.
Karl, you up?
Yes sir.
Didn't you go to sleep at all, Karl? You been sittin' there like that all night?
Yes sir.
Well, I guess we better hit the road.
Are you sure you're okay staying with that woman and boy?
Yes sir.
Do they know about you?
My history.
Yeah.
I told 'em about it. They know I'm well. That Mizz Wheatley made me some biscuits.
I'll be.
That boy, he's my friend. He likes the way I talk and I like the way he talks.
I knew you'd do all right. Well, I just wanted to check on you. I'll say bye to Bill and get on back.
I'm ye boy.
I ain't got no boy.
I'm ye oldest boy name Karl.
I ain't got no boy.
They turned me aloose from the nervous hospital. Said I was well.
That grass out in the yard's all growed up. I figured I might cut it fer ye.
I told you, I ain't got no boy, now get on out from here and let me be.
Yes ma'am, I reckon.
Well, when you like pricing items as much as I do, I guess it's just bound to happen sooner or later.
I like walkin' quite a bit from time to time.
I stay on my feet all the time at work. I just can't find shoes that's comfortable.
You walk fast, don't you?
I reckon.
These is the worst shoes I own for walkin'. How far did you want to go?
I ain't really thought about it too much I don't reckon.
A blister shore can hurt.
Yeah.
Flowers is pretty. I've always thought that.
Me, too.
Hey, Mama. Hey, Vaughan.
Hey, sweetheart. What you up to?
Oh, that's Karl. I met him at the laundrymat. Karl, this is my mama. And Vaughan, Vaughan's the manager. He lets mama off any time she feels like it 'cause they're best friends.
Nice to meet you, Karl.
Hey Karl, guess what. Mama said you can stay with us. Out in the garage. Our car won't fit in there anyway. It's real neat.
Frank told me about your situation. And Frank loves company. You know, especially after his daddy passed and all. There ain't no sense in you stayin' in that old greasy shop. He's mentally retarded, poor thing.
Maybe you and Karl want to go with us?
Naw, I don't want to. Me and Karl got things we need to do.
How come Karl won't eat here with us?
I don't know. He just said he'd eat out there.
I sure like the way he talks. It sounds like a race car motor idlin'. It makes me not be nervous.
I'm glad of it, honey.
Karl, now listen, there's gonna be a party tonight here at the house. Doyle's invited his musicplayin' buddies over to make a bunch of racket out on the patio.
They ain't even no good. The only one can play is Randy Horsefeathers. He claims he's an Indian. His real name's Randy Collins and he works at the feed mill. He can at least play guitar.
He's no more an Indian than I am though. Anyhow, Doyle's gonna try and tease you and be mean to you to show off to his friends. Just like he does to Frank and me sometimes. You just ignore it. Or stay out here away from 'em if he'll let you. He's an okay guy till he gets drunk but tonight he'll get drunk. I guarantee it.
He ain't ever okay to me.
You all right, Mama?
I'm fine, honey. Let's just try and forget about tonight.
We don't need to think bad thoughts, do we Mama?
No, honey, we don't. I'll make some coffee and start cleanin' up this mess. Karl, you want some coffee, huh?
What are you doin' up again, Frank? You need to get a little sleep.
Did Vaughan go home?
Yeah, he has to go to work in a little while. I do too.
Did Karl go to bed?
I guess. He went to the garage. Poor thing, he's probably never seen such a crazy mess. He probably wants to go back and live in Mr. Cox's shop.
I bet he don't. Karl likes me.
I know he does.
Mama?
Huh?
Is everything gonna be all right someday? I just stay nervous all the time just about.
Yeah, honey, someday everything's gonna be all right.
Doyle wouldn't really kill you, would he?
I promise we're gonna get away from him. The time has to be right, that's all. I'd rather him get tired of me and leave me. Then he wouldn't want to hurt me. He wouldn't care then. We'll be fine. I promise. You go to bed now. I love you.
I love you, too, Mama.
Well, at least he's tryin'. But who knows for how long.
He's lyin' Mama. He ain't gonna do better.
I know honey. Just remember what I said, we'll bide our time. You just steer clear of him as much as you can. Doyle's had a real hard life. It's just about run him crazy I think.
We've had a real hard life, too, Mama.
What's you last name?
Childers.
What are all them books?
Different ones. One's the Bible. One of 'ems a book on Christmas. One of 'ems how to be a carpenter.
How come you're carryin' them around with you.
Ain't got nowhere to set 'em down.
Don't you live somewhere?
I did live there in the state hospital.
Why'd you live there?
I killed some folks quite awhile back. They said I wadn't right in the head and they put me in there in the nervous hospital instead of puttin' me in jail.
They let you out?
Yeah.
How come?
They told me I was well. They had to turn me loose.
Are you well?
I reckon I feel all right.
You don't seem like you'd kill nobody.
Do you like to play football?
I never was much count at it. I never did get picked out fer it.
Me and the Burnett twins and some boys plays down at the junior high practice field all the time. If you ever want to come by and play. We ain't no good either. Well, I'll see you later.
Hey there. I thought I heard somebody on the porch. Wasn't your name Karl?
Yeah it is. Your name's Frank.
Yeah. What you doin' by here?
You told me to come by.
Did you want to play ball with us?
I ain't no good at it. I just come by.
Well, anyhow, I was just fixin' to go see my mama down at Ben's Dollar Store. She's workin' two till eight.
All right then.
Wait a minute. You want to go with me? You can meet my mama.
I don't want to worry your mama with company.
Aw, come on. You'll like her. She's real nice. She'll give us somethin' if we ask her to. Candy or somethin'.
I was kindly needin' to do some tradin'. Reckon they sell toothpaste?
They sell some of everything. Come on let's go. I won't tell her about you bein' in the state hospital for killin'.
This is what I call my secret place 'cause I come out here when I feel like bein' by myself. I used to come here with Karen Cross. She's kind of like my girlfriend, or used to be. She says she likes Jerry Maroney now. But I'm gonna get her back 'cause I love her. We used to come here and hold hands and talk and read books to each other with a flashlight. She didn't want to have anything to do with me in front of other people 'cause I don't have any money. Well, mama and me, I mean. She seemed to like me a whole lot when we were out here though. She said she loved me, too. Out here. Settin' right on that stump you're on. See, her daddy's a dentist so they're rich. So's Jerry Maroney's daddy. He owns the ice plant. Was your folks well off?
Naw. Didn't have too much. Enough to scrape by on, I reckon.
They still around, your folks?
My mother's dead. My daddy's s'posed to be around still. He don't want to have nothin' to do with me though.
How do you know?
He never did want to. I figure he ain't changed his mind much.
How did your mama die?
You don't need to know all of that. You're just a boy. You need to think about good thoughts while you're still a boy. They'll be plenty of time for the other.
I've had a lot of bad thoughts since my daddy died. Sometimes I wish I was still real little and he was still here. My mama's real good, but I wish I had both of 'em. When we went to Memphis one time in the car, it was rainin' so hard we couldn't see the road. But I wadn't scared because I thought as long as daddy was drivin' nothin' could happen to us. I feel that way about mama now. Mama has a boyfriend now. His name is Doyle Hargraves. He works construction so he makes a pretty good livin'. He still don't help mama out with any money though. He ain't no good. He's mean to her. He don't like me at all. Mama says it's because he's jealous I belong to my daddy instead of him. He stays with us all night sometimes, but he's got his own house. Somebody told me it's so he can still have other girlfriends. I like it on the nights when he ain't at our house. I'm not so nervous then.
How come her to keep bein' girlfriends and all with him if he's mean to her?
She says it's for the times when he's good to her. She's lonely since daddy died. She said sometimes she don't know why. He threatened to kill her if she ever left him. My daddy would kill him if he was here and somebody was mean to mama. Vaughan, he's real good to mama. Vaughan that you met. But he's not able to do anything to Doyle, he's funny you know. Not funny ha, ha, funny queer. He likes to go with men instead of women. That makes him not to be able to fight too good. He sure is nice though. He's from St. Louis. People who are queer can get along better in a big town. He got transferred here to work. But mama said the real reason he left is 'cause his daddy hated him. For bein' the way he is. I wish he liked to go with women. I'd rather him be mama's boyfriend than Doyle.
Karl. You know when I said daddy got hit by a train.
Yeah, I remember you atellin' me that.
It ain't the truth. He shot hisself with a shotgun on purpose.
Why did he do that, reckon.
'Cause he didn't have enough money to take care of us the way he wanted to. That's what the letter said. He got laid off from work and had to just work odd jobs. I thought he took care of us fine. Karl, did you really kill somebody?
Yeah, I did.
Who did you kill?
Two people.
Were they bad people?
I thought they was.
Maybe they needed it.
I growed up and got taught it ain't right to kill nobody.
It's okay if you're lookin' out for yourself. If it's selfdefense. Was it selfdefense?
I'd like to kill that son of a bitch. I hate him.
You ort not to talk that way. You're just a boy.
Well, I hate him.
He ort not to talk that away to you neither. He ain't no count. He's mean to you and your mama. Yore mama and that feller that's carryin' me to get somethin' d'eat's gonna be back here directly.
Will you stay here with us for a long time?
I reckon if you want me to. I got some of that potted meat and sodie crackers left over if you want some.
I don't see how you can eat that stuff with all those insides it's made out of.
I reckon it tastes pretty good to me.
I like the way you talk.
I like the way you talk.
Hey Karl, you off work?
Yeah.
Where'd you get them flowers?
That gal that made employee of the month give 'em to me for awalkin' with her.
I was goin' to the secret place. I borried one of your books to take down there. You ain't mad, are you?
Naw. You can look at all my books you want to.
It's name's A Christmas Carol.
That's than un on Christmas I was tellin' you about.
You want to go with me?
Yeah.
I'm gettin' tired of readin' for a while.
All right then.
Boy, folks sure had it rough back a long time ago, didn't they?
Yeah, I reckon they did. Hit like to tore me up when I read about that pore little cripple boy.
Yeah, me too. That was nice of that woman to give you them flowers.
Hit was right thoughty of her.
I was wantin' to ask you somethin'.
All right then.
You know that girl I told you about. The one I love.
Yeah, I recollect it.
Would you go see her with me? I kind of thought I might take her some flowers like that woman done you.
If you want me to.
I ain't got no money to get 'em with but I bet Vaughan will let me have some of them flowers at the store.
I bet he will. I got a little money if he don't. I'll get 'em for ye.
I usually get run off by her mama or daddy if they're home. Reckon why they don't like me?
They ort to. You're a good boy.
Just 'cause I'm not rich don't mean I don't love her.
Naw.
And I don't try to touch her. You know, in a bad way. Foolin' around, sex and all.
That's real good. You ort not to if ye ain't married to somebody. Bible tells you that much. Hit tells some things that don't seem right too, I reckon. I guess a feller ort to foller it close as he can, though. You don't touch yourself, do you?
What do you mean?
Pull on your works. Your privates.
Oh, jackin' off?
Yes sir. You ort not know that language.
I didn't know till here while back a year or two ago when I spent the night with Ronnie Smart one time. He said just tug on your peter and think about your mama. I tried it, but I felt funny thinkin' about my mama. So, I switched over to thinkin' about his mama and then what he told me would happen, happened. It sure tingles, don't it?
You ort not to pull on yourself that away.
I kind of like you tellin' me what to do and not to do. Just like my daddy. I didn't mind him tellin' me. I hate Doyle to tell me what to do. Mama said the only way to ever get away from him is for him to get away from us. That we can't leave him or he'll try and hurt her.
He ain't no count.
You don't seem like a daddy. You seem like a brother. Wonder what makes you like somebody right off when you don't even know 'em like what happened with me and you.
I don't reckon I know.
And then some people you don't like right off. It's funny. You know why I want you to play ball with me?
Naw.
'Cause it's fun. It don't matter if you ain't no good. It takes your mind off of everything else while you're doin' it. When you run real fast tryin' to make a touchdown you don't think about anything else. I ain't no good, but my daddy always said he was proud of me when I threw a ball or ran with it. Did you have any brothers and sisters growin' up to play with?
I had one there for little bit. Hit didn't get old enough to play with.
Why not? It died?
Yeah.
Why?
Hit was borned a little too early on. My mother and father made hit come too early some way or other. I reckon they changed their mind about havin' another'n. I was about six or eight year old then and they didn't care too much for me so I reckon they didn't need somethin' else to worry 'em with.
So it died when it come out?
My daddy come to the shed out back and got me and said throw this here away and handed me a towel with somethin' in it. I went for the trash barrel there and opened up the towel to see 'cause they was a noise and somethin' movin' in it. Hit was bloodylike around that towel. Hit was a little ol' bitty baby, no bigger than a squirrel.
It was alive?
Yes sir. Right then it was.
A boy or girl?
A little ol' boy.
You threw it in a trash barrel?
I didn't feel right about doin' that. I takened a shoe box from there in the shed and emptied out some screwdrivers and nuts and warshers from it and put the little feller in that and buried him in the corner of the yard there. That seemed more proper to me, I reckon.
It was still alive when you buried it?
I heared it cryin' a little through that box.
That don't seem right. It seems like you should have kept him alive and took care of him if he was your brother.
I wadn't but six or eight. I reckon I didn't know what to do. I didn't know how to care for no baby. Mama and Daddy didn't want him. They learned me to do what they told me to. These days I figure it might of been best to give him right back to the Good Lord right off the bat anyhow.
That makes me feel real sad. Couldn't you have done somethin', Karl? I would have. I wish I would of had him. He'd be here right now. Livin'.
Hits been hard thinkin' about it. They ain't a day goes by I don't think about it. I kindly have a picture of it up in my head that I see. Hit makes me sad, too. I have bad thoughts on it. I wished they was somethin' I could of did, too. Shouldn't no bad things happen to childern. All the ol' bad things ort to be saved up for folks that's growed up, the way I see it. I shouldn't of told you about that. A boy ort not hear about such things. It just kindly come out.
I didn't mean to say anything bad about you. I know you're good. You didn't mean no harm. Did you ever think about killin' yourself on purpose like my daddy did?
I've studied about it. The Bible says not to or you end up goin' to Hades. Some folks calls it Hell, I call it Hades.
Bible says the same thing about killin' others, too.
Yes sir, I reckon it does.
She said she'd see me later. That's kinda good, right?
I reckon.
What you readin'?
Readin' on this book on how to work carpentry. I aim to learn how to build things out of wood one of these times. I've always been partial to wood buildin's and cabinets and whatnot. These drawin's they got here don't make no sense to me so far. You seem like yore tails a'draggin' a might. You got somethin' wrong with ye?
Seems like Doyle's wormed his way back in. Mama said he's stayin' over tonight and he's talkin' about movin' in for good. We ain't ever gonna be happy. We'll always be nervous, won't we Karl?
I don't reckon I know. I ain't found no way yet and I'm three or four times as old as you. Might be that's just the way folks is.
I feel sad about Karen Cross, too. I just make like to myself she loves me. I know better, though. It just feels good to me when I imagine it.
Make believin' always made me feel good too from time to time.
Bill Cox is goin' to a funeral for a Mister Turner tomorrow and a closin' up shop early.
Is that right?
I'll play ball with ye. I reckon if neither one of us is no count it won't make no difference.
You will? For sure?
Yeah.
We'll be on teams, me and you?
Yessir.
Way to go, Karl. We got a touchdown. That was a good lateral, man. That was just like the Wishbone.
I dern near had me a touchdown till them boys got ahold of me there so I figured I better give it off to you. I seen you over there follerin' me.
We're liable to win if we keep this up. For somebody like you, you sure run fast.
I know you could of scored them three touchdowns by yourself instead of throwing 'em over to me.
Them boys was tryin' to pull me down pretty hard.
You're strong though. You let me make them touchdowns so I'd feel good. My daddy used to do that kind of thing.
It don't matter to me about us losin' does it to you?
No sir.
It was fun, anyhow.
I wadn't thinkin' about nothin' else just like you told me I'd do.
Can we play ever' Saturday?
If I ain't too stove up. I ain't like you. I'm old and give out. I'm proud of ye.
Yeah, I guess.
Yes ma'am. I like a fried chicken leg.
Hey, Karl. How'd you know to come out here?
I knowed you'd be here. What are you adoin' digging with that stob?
Just diggin'. I ain't ever gonna be happy now. Not with that son of a bitch movin' in for good. I wish me and you and Mama could just run away. But she said he would find us wherever we went. He's crazy. Sometimes I think it would of been better if I wadn't ever born.
I'm glad of it you was borned. I reckon I ain't gonna be there in the garage no more.
You have to Karl. You have to look out for me. You don't let that son of a bitch run you off.
You're just a boy. You ort not to use that sort of language.
Karl, I ain't tryin' to say nothin' bad about you, but why don't you stop Doyle when he gets that away? You're older than him. You're strong, too. My daddy wouldn't let him do that to me and Mama.
That feller's a whole sight meaner than me. He'd just whup the tar out of me.
Yeah, I guess so. I'm real tired, you know that. A kid my age shouldn't be tired of things.
I'm tired, too, Frank. If I ain't around no more, it don't mean I don't care fer ye. I care for ye a good deal. I care for you more than anybody they is. We made friends right off the bat.
I care for you, too. But you'll be around, don't say that.
Hit don't make no difference where I was to be. We'll always be friends. There ain't no way to stop that. I aim for you to have these books.
Maybe you can make more sense out of them than I can. I made you a little old book marker and stuck it in that book on Christmas.
You don't want to give away all your books.
I aim fer you to have 'em.
Man. Thanks. You know when you get a feelin' and you don't know why?
Yes sir.
I've got a feelin' today.
Reckon what kind of a feelin'?
Like something different. I don't know. You're leavin' ain't you, Karl?
Will ye do somethin' for me if I ast you to?
You know I would. Whatever you want.
Don't go home tonight and stay with that Doyle. He's got it in for ye tonight. I got me a feelin', too. Feels like to me you ort not be there in that house with him liquored up and mean. Ye mama neither. When you get up from here, I want you to go to that feller's house. Your mama's friend. I want you to give me your word on it.
Okay. I give you my word. Is ever'thing gonna be okay? Are you all right?
Ever'thing's okay, boy. I kindly want to put my arm around ye for a minute and then I'm gonna go on and leave here.
Okay.
Hey Frank. You shouldn't be coming over here. My parents really don't want you to.
I wanted to bring you some flowers. They're pretty good ones.
They're from the Dollar Store. I'm not an idiot. Besides we have a garden full of flowers.
I wanted for you to meet Karl, too. He's my new friend. But I feel like I've always known him. I thought you should meet him.
Why? Hi, Karl.
He's gonna be around a lot and I hope you are too, so...
Here give me the flowers, I'll do something with them. Thank you. Now you better go. Maybe I'll see you down at the secret place one day in a week or two or something. I have a boyfriend now you know. And we're pretty serious. He gave me a ring.
Can you go there with us now? Me and Karl. We could just hang out. Karl has some cool books.
Frank, I just like you as a friend. Only at the secret place. Okay? I can't go there now. I'll see you later.
But maybe just for awhile 
I'm closing the door now. I told you, I'll see you later.
What's in your bag?
This and that. Toothpaste and whatnot.
What's all them books?
Different ones. The Bible's one of 'em.
You believe in the Bible?
A good deal of it, I reckon. Can't understand all of it.
Well, I can't understand none of it. This one begat this one and that one begat this one and begat and begat and begat and lo somebody sayeth some shit or another. Just how retarded are you?
I ain't never used no hatchet that I remember.
You're just crazy in a retarded kind of way then. It wouldn't matter to me if you did do violence on somebody 'cause I ain't afraid of shit. You think I'm afraid for you to stay here. You're just a humped over retard it looks like to me. Not really, I'm just jokin' with you. Welcome to our humble home, buddy. Frank needs all the friends he can get. Frank's a real weak little kid. His daddy taught him how to be a pussy.
On the bass, give it up for Terence "One Ball" Atkins. On the tambourine and lyrics Morris Hobbs the fuckin' genius of the group. On drums "The Johnson." And last and most importantly, Doyle Hargraves on rhythm guitar and business affairs and the only motherfucker with a truck big enough to haul this outfit on the next world fuckin' tour. Come on, a big hand for these guys. They're workin' their asses off here. Okay I'd like to dedicate this next one to some very special people in our audience tonight. To my lovely female companion Linda, her lovely son Frank, our new boarder Karl  what's your last name Karl?
Childers.
Karl Childers just in from the state facility. Make one of them gruntin' sounds Karl or whatever it is you do. Oh well, Karl's a little retarded, he don't know what the hell I'm talkin' about. And to Vaughan who fucks a mortician in the rear entrance right in front of his clients. Now that takes balls. Our number one tune for the folks, boys. Kick it off Johnson!
I want to be baptized.
Baptized? Well, get baptized then. I don't give a shit. Call a fuckin' preacher, goddamnit! I can't baptize you.
Don't hit that boy no more.
You shut up you, fuckin' retard. Get your shit and get out of here. That was a wakeup slap, Frank. Remember. Reality, like I said. Don't forget any bit of what I said to you and we'll be fine.
Where's ever'body else? You seen 'em? I thought I told you to get the hell moved out of here anyway.
How does a feller go about gettin' ahold of the police?
Pick up the fuckin' phone and call 'em, I guess.
What numbers do you punch?
I told you to get away from here, didn't I? I'm tryin' to relax and look at TV. What are you doin' with that piece of iron? I swear to God you're the weirdest son of a bitch I ever heard of.
I aim to kill you with it.
Sure, I guess.
Don't rush ever'body, honey.
Hey, Vaughan, you know what I heard? I heard you been puttin' it to Albert Sellers that works over at the funeral home.
I know Albert. We're friends.
I heard you was more than friends. I heard Dick Rivers caught y'all all bowed up and goin' at it in the same room with poor, little, old Mizz Ogletree and her dead as a doornail layed out on a gurney.
That's ridiculous. That's just a total lie.
You like that Vaughan?
Sure. It sounded like a number one tune all right.
You enjoying yourself, Karl?
I'd better go on home now, it's late. I have to work tomorrow.
Come on, don't be a pussy. Everybody has to work.
Are you sure you can drive? You've really had a lot of alcohol.
Shhhh! This is the national anthem.
I bet you like sittin' between two men in a dual wheel truck don't you?
Oh, yeah, I'm thrilled.
Sarcastic right? You know the boys in the band are probably gonna stay over tonight. We'd be glad to have you.
You got that shit right.
What exactly do you mean by that? I don't understand.
I don't really understand the meaning of the words.
If y'all don't shut up I'm gonna go out of my mind. And plus you're liable to bust a spring in Karl's head. He's already off balance.
We don't have a goddamn band! Y'all just shut the fuck up! We don't need no practicin' or managers cause we ain't no fuckin' band! Morris ain't no genius and the rest of you are just losers. Am I the only one sane human bein' around here? Just get the hell out of my house and don't come back!
It's not your house, Doyle, it's Linda's.
I'll kill you, you fuckin' faggot! You mind your own business. Now get out! Now, before I get too mad to turn back.
Doyle, don't you lay one hand on her.
That's funny. You go to bed and take snot nose with you.
I'm a witness. I heard you threaten her life.
I thought I told you to keep out!
Well, honey, I don't guess I give a shit. I ain't here half the time anyway. If you want a retard livin' in the garage, I don't guess I care. I've got a good tool box and socket set out there I don't want stol'd. I guess I could take it home with me.
He's real honest. He wouldn't steal nothin'.
Now son, I wadn't talkin' to you, was I? Was I?
No sir.
No sir's right. I'm talkin' to your mama. This is your mama's decision, not yours. I'm lettin' it go on because she asked me, not you. Now is this the kind of retard that drools and rubs shit in his hair and all that, 'cause I have trouble eatin' around that kind of thing. Just like I am about antique furniture and midgets. I can't so much as drink a glass of water around a midget or a piece of antique furniture. Same thing with a droolin' retard.
I ain't sure.
You might want to find out. He might of hacked his family to pieces with a hatchet or somethin'.
I want to watch T.V.
Yeah, honey, let the kid watch T.V. Hell, let's all watch T.V. like a family till your retarded friend and your homosexual friend gets here.
Come on, Karl, let's go out to the garage.
Goddamnit, I'm talkin' to the man. You set right there, Karl.
Stop it, Doyle!
You be quiet, Frank, we're talkin'. The adults are talkin'. Were you in the lockup for cuttin' somebody up with a hatchet?
Stop it, Doyle! Don't talk about daddy, you hear me!
Don't talk about daddy. Y'all go on to the garage and let me be.
What have you got to be nervous about? You're a damn kid. You ain't got any bills to pay or bidness to run or old lady to stay on your ass all the time.
I get nervous, that's all I know.
Last time you got mad and run Morris and them off and said to stay away from here.
That ain't none of your damn bidness. Besides that's the way friends do one another. Fuck it, I'm gonna go call 'em. Honey, find my guitar, I think it's out there in the garage with that loony tune.
Okay, I'll leave and sober up. Everything's botherin' me, that's all. I'm hurtin' Linda. I love you.
I hate you!
Well, I hate you, too. No I don't. I love your mama. Nobody understands what I go through. I'll leave. You bunch of freaks have fun. I'll call you tomorrow honey. I'm sorry. You can kiss my ass, really. You ever hit me again you little bastard and I'll make you sorry your daddy ever squirted your little ass out.
Now here's the deal. Now that I'm gonna throw my entire life away doin' what I want to come live here with y'all, we have to get a few things straight. See, Frank, me and you mama wouldn't have any problems if it wadn't for you. We'd never have a bad word between us. But since you do exist, if I'm gonna be here as the head of the household, we'll have to live by my rules. And my rules are you don't speak unless you're spoken to. Stay out of my way and do what a regular kid does. You're a weird little shit. I don't get you. So wake up. Face what they call reality. We're gonna be a family now. And it's my family. I'll be payin' the bills so you got me. But I ain't your daddy. You just treat me like I am. I'm the boss, okay. And the other thing is your friend Karl has to go. We can't have a normal family with him livin' in the garage and comin' in the bedroom at four in the mornin' with hammers and shit. See?
Karl can stay if he wants to. Mama said 
Doyle, you're awful. You shouldn't be that way.
I ain't sayin' it's right. I'm just tellin' the truth. What was he in the nuthouse for?
He's just mentally retarded, I guess.
He had of went nuts and did somethin'. They don't put you in there for just bein' a retard. They's retards all over the place that ain't in the nuthouse. Do you know, Frank?
Yeah, that's right, Frank, you better ask him. I mean, don't hurt his feelin's or anything, but it would be good to know. I'm sure it's nothin'. He seems real sweet.
You sure are hung up on people bein' sweet. Speakin' of which, where's your girlfriend? I thought he was comin' by here for something.
He'll be here in a little while, he's takin' me to get an ice cream.
Ain't that the sweetest thing. What am I supposed to do about supper with you traipsin' around with that fag?
You're not crippled. Get in there and make somethin'.
Boy, ain't you somethin' else. Talkin' back and everything. It kinda makes me horny when you talk back.
Frank, why don't you go off and play in your room if Doyle's gonna talk nasty.
Let's go, Vaughan. Frank, we'll be back in a little while. I'll bring you back somethin'. You're food's in the oven warmin' over.
See, you made him somethin'. Hey Vaughan, I was just goin' on with you, jokin' around, buddy.
Well, I wouldn't let it get to you.
I just feel sorry for the poor thing.
Who could eat with him settin' there makin' that goddamn racket with his throat.
He does make some funny noises.
You know what, by God?
What?
You know what we ought to do tonight?
Please Doyle, don't.
Have a damn party! Call Morris and them and get the band together and just party our asses off. I'd like to show that fuckin' Karl to the guys. They'd get a kick out of that. Don't you know they would.
Please don't. Not tonight. I'm not up for it. They always stay till mornin'. I'm just give out, Doyle.
You don't have to do anything but pour some potato chips in a bowl and bring beers out when we get low.
Well, it's on! We're gonna rock. Linda, call Vaughan. Tell him to get over here. I'd like him to be here. I owe him a good time.
No Doyle. Vaughan don't want to come to a party with you.
Too late, Honey. Fooled you. Done called him. He'll be here. Or I'll go get him. Come on Karl, I need you to help me ice down a tub of beer, you and Frank.
Okay ladies and gentlemen or both. It's come to the time in our show when we like to introduce the band. Over here on lead guitar Mr. Randy Horsefeathers. Come on hit a hot lick, Randy. Well, come on, y'all are supposed to clap now. Come on!
Karl, you better clap your hands or he'll just keep on.
He don't want to Doyle. Don't go Vaughan if you don't want to. You'll wreck Doyle, you're drunk.
But honey, I'll be good. I promise. I love you sweetie. I'm just tryin' to help these two be part of things.
I thought I told everybody to get out of my house. That includes cocksuckers and retards. Get off your asses and go.
This is not your house, Doyle. This is my house and I'll say who stays and goes. You've got a house, why don't you go get one of your girlfriends and go home to it.
You know better than to talk like that when I'm hurtin'. Don't make me knock the piss out of you.
You're not stayin' here tonight. Go get sober before you come back. I'm tired of my child seein' this. Now you get yourself straight or I'll lock your ass out of my life for good.
You know what I told you, you even think of leavin' me, I'll kill you dead as a doornail.
That might be better than this.
Leave.
Don't tell me what to do.
Leave.
Don't tell me what to do.
Leave.
Don't tell me what to do.
Leave.
Don't tell me what to do.
What in the goddamn hell are you doin'? It's the middle of the night.
What do you want, hun?
We'll go to church and get you baptized, tomorrow's Sunday. You go on back to bed.
What are you doin' with that damn hammer?
How'd your baptizin' go?
It went real good.
Well, that's good. It's about time to eat and you know what I'm cravin'? Some of that take out chicken. Why don't you run get some of it, honey, for lunch?
Would y'all like that?
All right, y'all gonna go with me?
Naw, hell, let them stay here with me and do men things. There might be some kind of ball game on we can watch. You go on.
I'll be back in a little bit then.
Hey Freddy, what's goin' on boy. I seen your pitcher in the paper for catchin' that bigass bass.
Yeah She was a big 'un. You ain't drunk drivin' are you Doyle?
Yeah.
I figured that. Well you better be careful with that cripple in the back. You'll throw him out. Looks like you got a wagonful.
We run outta somethin' to drink. Goin' to the county line. You want to race?
You know better than that. We're on duty. Catch me in that Camaro next week one night.
Catch you later Freddy!
... on the third day I washed her. She wasn't very clean. I got all the right spots. She was the first one I ever kept for any length of time, you see I get bored easily, I have a short attention span. I can't say she enjoyed her stay, although the washcloth in her mouth held in place by good duct tape kept any complaints to a minimum. I don't really like people who talk a lot. I like to do the talking. I guess that's why I'm so fond of you. You're so easygoing, although I do sense a little tension in you sometimes. By the way, how was it out there? Did you have any fun? Make any new acquaintances? Tell me what it was like.
They was a boy. We made friends.
I bet you did. I was never bent that way. I'm bent the other way. So, you liked it out there in the world.
It's too big.
Well, it's not too big in here, is it? I feel very generous today. I feel like listening. I'm sure you have plenty to tell me. And please bore me with the details. ) Come on Karl, who did you kill? Was it the boy?
Don't say nothin' about that boy.
Can I help you?
I was kindly wantin' somethin' or 'nother d'eat.
Well, what did you want?
You have any biscuits for sale?
Naw, we don't have biscuits.
Did you decide, sir?
What you got that's good to eat?
Well, I guess it's all good.
What do you like to eat here?
French fries. I like to eat them pretty good.
Frenchfried potaters.
Yeah.
How much you want fer 'em? I'll get some of them I reckon.
Sixty for small and seventyfive for large.
Give me the big'uns.
These dang things are heavy. Hard to carry, too.
What you got in there, warshing?
Yeah.
Ain't you got no mama and daddy to tend to it?
I got a mama, but she's at work over at Ben's Dollar Store. My daddy's dead. He got hit by a train.
How fer you going with them sacks full of warsh?
About a half a mile I think it is.
I'll help you tote 'em if I don't give out first.
Okay. You don't have to though.
My name is Frank Wheatley. What's your name?
Karl's my name.
Hey Jerry, how it's goin'. Good to see you. Been a long time.
Good to see you, Bill. How's everybody doin'?
Aw, pretty good. Kids are drivin' me crazy and Phyliss is gonna put me in the poorhouse. Can't complain other than that. Wouldn't do any good if I did. Do you know Scooter, Jerry?
No, don't guess I do. Scooter, good to meet you. This is him, the one I talked to you about on the phone. Now like I said, I'll understand if you get nervous about it. I'm not gonna lie to you now, he did get in that trouble but then he was real young.
I remember it real well. Cut them folks to pieces. His mama one of 'em.
Don't look much like he could. You say he can fix a small engine like nobody's bidness.
He's a regular whiz at it. That's all he did when he was a kid.
Well, I ain't scared of him workin' here. You know me. I'm a church goin' man. Forgivin' man. When your time's up the Lord's gonna come git you. You seared of him, Scooter?
That old man of his still livin' over there on Clark Street I believe.
He won't have anything to do with him. Now you say it's all right for him to stay out here in the back?
Fine with me. If he steals anything, I'll take it out of your pocket anyway.
He won't steal. I'm tellin' you he's a pretty good ol' boy. Keeps to himself.
Well, I've got a roomful of work for him to do. Can't get Scooter to do any of it.
Karl, come over here. I want you to meet your new boss. This is Bill Cox, runs this place. Says you can work here and stay in the back.
Good to know you, Karl.
How 'bout you, Jerry.
How are you, Bill?
Doin' pretty good. Got a sick tiller here. What's got you down this way?
Just thought I'd check on Karl and see if everything's working out.
Well, he's pretty quiet. Except for them rackets and breathin' things he does. Ain't threatened me with a killin' or anything. But boy you couldn't of been more right about him fixin' things. That son of a bitch is a regular Eli Whitney on a lawnmower. Loves french fries. Eats four larges and don't even so much as belch. I'm proud to have him.
Is him stayin' here workin' out?
He's gone to stayin' over with that Wheatley boy and his mama in their garage. I think that little boy adopted him damn near like a mascot. But he's got a key here to come and go as he pleases. Everything's worked out good.
Can I see him?
Sure.
I'll see you, Bill.
Okay, stop back by. Don't worry about your boy here, he's doin' good.
Thank ye.
Now it's minimal wage and there ain't nothin' but a army cot and a toilet back there.
They say you're a whiz on fixin' lawn mowers and things.
I've tinkered around on 'em a little bit.
We order from Dairy Queen at noontime usually. We can buy your lunch till you get on your feet a little.
I like them frenchfried potaters.
Yeah, me too.
I don't reckon.
If it works out and all, maybe we'll get you a key so you can get out at night if you need to. See you later.
Yeah, they's good all right.
You got any money?
They give me fifty dollars when they turned me loose. I spent up some of it on ridin' the bus and eatin' frenchfried potaters.
Well, I'm gonna pay you today for this comin' week, so you'll have some walkin' around money. When you get off this evenin' you better go buy some toothpaste and cleanin' up supplies to have back there. Some hard candy and some magazines. Somethin' to keep you busy at night.
All right then.
I'll let you off while it's still daylight.
Now, Karl, you sure you want to go stay with these folks? You're welcome to keep on stayin here. It's workin' out real good.
That boy wants me to.
All right then. I'll see you bright and early. How you comin' along on that garden tiller?
I fixed it. Hit's a workin' pretty good.
You done fixed it? I'll be damned. Scooter told me it couldn't be fixed. 'Course Scooter's about as shitless as one poor sonofabitch can be. You done fixed it. I'll just be damned. See you tomorrow.
Hit ain't got no gas in it.
See there. Thinks of the simplest thing first.
Thank ye.
Scooter, let's me and you go over to Dairy Queen and pick up a few things for lunchtime.
All right then, I'll see y'all later. Karl you done a good day's work. They right about you. Scooter, he's gonna knock you out of a job if you're not careful. I'll see you tomorrow.
Wait up, I'll leave with you and lock up.
Karl, they's a blanket up in under that cot and soap in the bathroom to clean up with. Now there's one more thing. The way we lock these doors at night, you can't get out. You didn't want to go anywhere, did you?
Scooter, did I tell about the two old boys pissin' off the bridge?
I can't remember.
There was these two old boys hung their peckers off of a bridge to piss, one old boy from California and one old boy from Arkansas. Old boy from California says, "Boy this water's cold." Old boy from Arkansas says "Yeah, and it's deep too." Get it? That's a goodun.
Yeah, that's a goodun. I believe you did tell me that one before. I've heard that a bunch. Long time ago.
Well, yeah it's a classic. You know, Karl, I got to thinkin' about it last night and it's just not Christian of me to not let you have a key. I mean you been in lockup so long, you don't need me keepin' you locked up. You need to come and go as you please. Here, take this key, it'll get you in and out that back door. Them french fries good?
I can go. You don't have to. You don't never go.
Goddamnit, Scooter, come on. Pardon my language, ma'am.
Go home.
May I see my mother?
You do not want to be here. Go home to your father.
She did not do it... please listen...
She is guilty.
No, sir, please... she is innocent...
She has confessed.
No.
She has admitted to her evil and signed a written confession. Do you know what confession is? All that is left for you now is to pray for her soul.
Lay still, Ichabod. Do not move.
Doctor, he is awake.
You... you are alive.
Am I? Or, are you and Young Masbath dead along with me?
He rides tonight.
Father saw you die.
He saw me thrown... saw the Horseman looming over me as I fled. Things I wanted him to see. But, as long as I govern the Horseman, he cannot harm me. Baltus did not stay enough to see that. He ran as a coward, unfettered by my fate.
Imagine my surprise, finding him on a liason with a common servant. A girl who had apparently become his secret love.
No one will believe your lies, whore.
This whore will see your mouth shut forever very soon. But... I am not going to kill you. Not me...
Pardon. You did not answer when I knocked. Are we intruding?
You are from the Hollow?
In a way, yes.
The Lenape who lived in these woods... do you know him? The Redman? I should tell you... he has been murdered.
Leave me. You are not welcome here.
I hear him. He rides to the Hollow and back.
The Horseman. Yes.
Sit.
Can you help?
You want to see into the nether world... I can show you. Whatever you see, do not move or speak. I will hold him.
What... what are you doing?
Close your mouth! Keep silent.
Van Ripper. Can you show where the body lay?
I can show exactly.
Here... in front of this oak, facing north. Horrible...
To the best of your recollection, where did the open wound fall?
There was not much blood, was there?
I didn't see none.
Van Ripper, turn the coach about!
What did you say?
Turn around. Now!
Van Ripper... do you have a gun?
Yes. Here...
You said yourself. What mere man could have downed the Belltower?
It is a prime tenet of science, Philipse, that because one thing appears improbable does not mean you embrace the utterly fantastical.
Returning to the Western Woods?
Yes, actually.
Use caution.
Do you know... I think those are the first words I have heard from you my entire time here.
As my husband says, a wife should be always like an echo, and at the same time, quite unlike an echo. Like an echo, she should speak only when spoken to, and unlike an echo, should never try to have the last word, or, at least that is what he believes.
Excuse me, Lady Van Tassel... Katrina is not in her room.
No. She has gone out.
Where?
She has taken the last of our grain to be milled. You do have a background in the medical arts, don't you, Constable?
Very little. I must be going...
It appears well. It has already clotted.
Look closer. Do you have anything to clean it with?
It is fine. Now, I must...
I know you saw me.
What... ?
You cannot kill what is already dead.
Let her go!
Yes... yes. I think I will...
Forgive me, I didn't know.
I... I am looking for Baltus Van Tassel.
Did they tell? It is something in the air so that dreams come to everyone. According to the elders, an Indian prophet held powwows here before the land was taken, and spells cast then still linger to this day.
Do you often make a habit of sitting on strange men's beds?
You are horribly oldfashioned, aren't you?
Feel free to form your own opinion. Though it appears you already have.
Well, I intended to apologize for the behavior of my friend Brom Van Brunt, but it seems I've made matters worse. I'll leave you to your business.
Excuse me... I should apologize. I, um... I... have no great love of...
Other people?
Small talk.
It might have been more. Might have been positively grand talk.
Is it me, or are you this nervous around all women?
Perhaps it is because your suitor's hands were recently very nearly wrapped around my throat.
My suitor?
The massive fellow... Brom. For someone you call "friend," he misplaces a good portion of jealousy.
He has proposed to me twice.
Which may explain his temperament. To have asked twice means the answer was "no" at least once.
I've read a great deal about your New York City. Do be a dear and tell me all about it. Sounds like an extraordinary place to live a life.
Extra ordinary, yes. But first, you tell me about the Headless Horseman.
Not all think it is the Horseman. Many say witches come from the Western Woods to steal skulls for their cauldrons. Some believe a person in this very town kneels before Lucifer, offering death as tribute. And, still others believe none of it.
Are you so superstitious?
To call a person superstitious is to imply they fear magic, but not all magic is black.
There is no such thing as magic.
Really? Then... what is your rebuttal to those romantic poets claiming proof of magic in a rose at full bloom, or even in a teardrop?
Poets have silly notions about plants and bodily secretions.
You are funny.
You do not disturb me. Please stay. Having trouble sleeping?
May I ask... why do you cover your book that way?
You pay great attention to small things. I hide these as I hide all my books. Father would not approve, lest it were the Bible.
I, um... I have something to show you, if you have a moment.
These scars. How did you get them?
I have had them since childhood. I cannot remember what from.
It would be interesting to find out.
Here it is. A bird on one side. His cage on the other. Now, stare at it. The bird seems to be in his cage.
Yes, he does. May I try?
He only appears to be inside the cage. The point being...
You made this, and the drawings?
Yes, but listen. The illusion is easily explained. The eye retains each image, till they combine. And yet, some would call this toy magic.
Don't you see why? Look closely a moment. Put your intellect aside. Can't you see what is inexplicable?
Oh, you are hopeless. May I keep it at least?
If you want. But...
Then, I also have a gift for you. True magic which even you will not be able to deny.
Thank you. No. Here...
I insist that you have it.
Very well. But, it will only sit gathering dust.
That would be a pity. Those words might show you something you've never seen before.
You promised justice.
If these are the random stalkings of a monster, what good am I?
People have put their trust in you.
They have done nothing of the sort.
Won't they still have that justice? Or, was it a vain promise?
Why would you do such a thing?
No stone may be left unturned. It may appear harsh...
I have misjudged you I think. I did not imagine you were so cruel.
You are not regarding it in full. The Widow Windsor had been run through by a sword. I followed the bloodless wound, a wound whose path I could not comprehend till I had seen the Horseman with my own eyes.
What are you on about?
The child she carried was eight months grown at least... near to birthing. The sword had pierced its tiny heart exactly.
Must I hear this?
There was no blind stabbing. This singular thrust found its target omnipotently, as if the Horseman made certain the unborn child died with its mother.
And this gives worth to butchery?
It was not butchery.
What is it then? Scientific method? How can any of this matter in the slightest?
I have no solution for its meaning yet, but I could not just ignore it.
Take a lesson from Young Masbath's desires, Ichabod Crane. He follows with you to avenge his father's death. That I understand. But, what do you want?
To avenge his father, and the others.
But, why? Tell me why.
You falter with your answer because you strive without putting the whole of your heart into it. Can't you see? You'll bring dignity to the dead even if you have to chop them into little pieces to do it.
If it had been surgery on a living person, done to save that person's life, you would not question it. Not for a moment. So, let me be the first to tell you, dear girl... on the other side of these sheltering mountains, a whole world has advanced beyond such plebeian thinking as yours. And someday, no matter how much you fear it, that world will come to roust Sleepy Hollow out of its slumber.
Allow me some time. I have spent every hour in the company of others. I need to be alone.
What troubles you?
The things I said to you before... I was wrong to say them.
No, actually, you were not. Every word you spoke had truth in it.
What has happened?
Lady Van Tassel... she is your stepmother, isn't she? She bears so little resemblance.
What?
She is not your birth mother, is she?
No, but... why do you ask that?
What happened to your mother? Is she still alive?
She died. Her lungs were diseased... two years ago. What is this about?
Memories have come back. I had them forgotten, and wish I could forget them again... but they are here now. Lord, how I hate this place.
If you want me to go, I will. Do you want me to leave?
I... I do not know. I no longer know what I think or what I feel.
It is only me.
Katrina. Why do you follow?
I apologize if I worried you.
A woman should not be out alone in these woods.
But, I am not alone, am I? I only wished to see what you were up to, and... To thank you.
Blood.
What did you say?
What are you doing?
Just... keep where you are.
My God... what has happened?
He... he tries to take the heads... they will not pass.
Why is it every grave I open holds a new mystery inside?
The skull is gone.
Yes. I did notice that, thank you.
What... what are you doing... ?
I'm drawing bad blood from the wound.
What is so urgent?
Come with me.
I have been reading your journal. I'm sorry. I found it too fascinating to resist. I rode to catch up with you at the Notary, out of curiosity. Before I found you though, I overheard what you were said.
It was you there?
When... when you spoke father's name along with accusations, I could not believe it. I had to hide these... at least till I could confront him myself.
And, what did he say?
He did not do these things. If you knew him, you would realize...
What did he say, Katrina?
I have not been able to face him yet.
The loans give the land to your father. It does not matter survivors are still on their farms. They could be thrown off... tomorrow... a year from now.
Yes, I have seen that, and I told you why I hid them.
What would you have me believe?
If you think I am behind this, say it.
The name Van Tassel is blackened. You share that name.
Call me a liar, then, and a murderess. Say it, out and out.
Katrina...
Speak the words, Constable. What is stopping you? What has happened to your ability to transcend sentimentality?
Where are we going?
I do not know. Away.
The church.
He moves too fast.
What was that?
His horse.
Ichabod...
Keep climbing. I will follow...
Quickly, close it.
No. Get to the crest of the roof and be ready to jump.
The blades will carry us to the ground. Face front and wait for me.
I... I can't do this.
We have no choice.
I am not here for revenge. I am here to bring justice.
Whatever. You still need a second to tend to your things.
I manage fine alone.
I deserve to help you. Don't you see how much this means? My father... he... he was a good man...
Young Masbath, I am sorry for your loss. It is a great and sad tragedy. However... I cannot be the one to look after you now.
I did not ask you to, did I?
What is the common thread between these victims?
I'm sure I don't know.
We must discover it. The reason the murderer chose these persons.
The Lenape Indian had much to tell once I opened his mouth.
How could he?
His teeth. Someone had cut them and chipped off rotten pieces far back in his mouth. The Lenape could not have done that for himself. Someone out there cared for him.
Where are we going?
Up.
What is it?
It's payment day. Loan monies are given to Baltus the last day each month. Almost everyone borrows... for tools or to hire workers.
Out there. What do you see?
The Western Woods.
Look again.
Are you familiar with magnets?
What kind of nuts?
Not for eating, I assure you. Watch here.
It's spectacular.
Yes... I suppose it is. Keep it.
No, I couldn't...
I have others. All I need is this.
Thank you.
Now, hold the bowl steady. Back to business.
If the Western Woods are truly the Devil's Glen, we will see for ourselves.
Father said witches live there.
Witches do not exist. However...
What is it?
Listen.
I hear nothing.
No crickets or cicadas calling. No bird songs.
We are leaving.
What happened?
Follow the Indian trail to where the sun dies. To the tree of the dead. Maybe we passed it by.
How could something named "the tree of the dead" fail to draw attention?
We should not go much further in this murk.
Should we go back?
We are far from the Hollow. Loath to say it... better to get our backs against a tree and stay till morning.
What does it mean... climb down to the Horseman's soulless place?
"Let loose his silent shrieking." Who knows, till we work at it? I admit not being anxious to find out. "He who holds the Horseman's desire will guide his reaping hand." Whatever the Horseman's desire is, other than extinguishing lives.
If the Crone's wound bled hard, that means she was not killed by the Hessian. Someone only tried to make it look that way.
You grow sharper by the minute, little man. It boggles my mind, but I begin to prefer your company over all others.
Well... I'm one of the few people who likes you.
True enough.
Then, who murdered the Old Crone? And why?
Good questions, deserving answers, of which we are in short supply.
What is it?
Stay back.
Must be some sort of gateway. But, why this place... ?
We should go.
Why this tree?
Someone left last night. Looked like they headed to the square, but I lost them in the forest.
Man or woman?
All I saw was their lantern.
Business, best hidden is hidden best at night.
If someone has the Horseman's skull... if they control the Horseman, then why haven't they sent him for your head yet?
Because, I serve a fine purpose alive. It is perfection for our murderer if I return to New York City with nothing more than tales of a galloping ghoul. We must uncover the reason these victims were targeted. What was taken from them... other than their lives? Who benefits by their deaths?
What good is this?
To discover what might have been taken from those who died, it will help to know what was there that could be taken in the first place.
My father had farm land. It was the only thing we owned of any value.
And it now belongs to you, according to Baltus. I heard him say it.
Yes.
Only the heirs were killed. Proof that the Horseman slaughters by assignment.
But, if the farm is not mine, who stole it away?
No one yet, far as I can tell. It has gone intestate.
In test... what?
Intestate. Your farm... all the farms... they belong to no one.
What does it mean?
Often in such cases, property which has gone intestate legally passes to whomever the deceased was indebted to. And, who in this town is owed a great many debts?
Baltus Van Tassel.
Did your father take a loan?
Yes. I rode with him on payment days.
There is no Masbath here. My father's loan papers are missing.
There are none for Magistrate Philipse either. "Paasch, James" "Pieter, Thomas" "Pos, William."
I was getting worried. Who was it?
Lady Van Tassel.
What was she doing?
Something I really wish I had not seen. Never mind it. Did you find the victims' loan agreements?
No. They are all missing.
There are no other doors. This is as far as she could have gone.
It is nothing. She comes to read books, so her father will not find her. It is absolutely nothing.
What books?
Fiction plays and novels. Baltus does not approve. Now, come. It may not be long before Lady Van Tassel returns.
But, sir... what books? Where are they?
What now? Where is she?
Things have become complicated. Katrina is at the mill. Ride ahead, find her and bring her to meet me outside the church. Find her at all costs. Quickly.
She's the one who controlled the Horseman, isn't she, sir? Sir?
I need time for thinking. Without you hanging on my coattails for a change.
Won't you change your mind, sir? What can I say to convince you?
Nothing. To hell with this place and all the people here.
Why... why are you like this?
You do not know all that has happened. You cannot understand.
This is farewell.
Take me with you. There's nothing left for me here.
I cannot. You should not worry. Van Ripper and his wife will look after you. They will. You will be well cared for.
Climb up!
Lady Van Tassel...
I know. Hold on.
What can we do?
Take the reins.
What now?
I doubt that's the end.
How are you?
Tired.
Well, Constable... are you aware... to be honest, you are not what we expected. We sent for the militia.
The militia?
The Van Garretts died first; a man and his son, survived by a wife and two infants. And the Widow Windsor was next...
And now Jonathan Masbath.
Why would he flee this direction, with so much open ground to cross before he reached cover?
He would not have gone into the Western Woods. No sane man would.
... found the body this morning. You do believe now, don't you?
Believe?
What is that you wear?
My talisman. It will, protect against the Horseman if I show a brave face. But, I cannot run. If I run in fear, it is worthless.
Well... so much for common sense.
Not more than a year ago, a mob hung a man for stealing a horse. For stealing a horse! And, you dig up our dead.
Are you saying I should be frightened? Is this a message passed on from Clergyman Steenwyck?
We are farmers here, not lawyers or bankers, or even constables. Every penny we earn comes from what we send down the Hudson.
I know it.
Listen to what you say....
No, you listen! You may think we are a pack of superstitious dullards...
At times I do.
Master Crane, sir. I'm glad we have time alone. You've been told plenty about the Horseman, I'm certain.
More than enough, actually. I beg you, no more, please.
No, sir, no. If you ask me, I say you just laid eyes on our murderer through that glass.
Tell me something. What becomes of Young Masbath?
Van Ripper and his wife agreed to take him. They have children and a good home and good land.
The Widow Windsor.
Is that all you say? Look at her.
It's not something people speak of openly. She did not remarry.
Just a moment... if I may. It is possible this man was murdered.
He drowned. Anyone could see.
There are surgical ways of telling how he died... by the water in his lungs...
He will be burned pursuant to statutes of health.
I could determine if he were dead <u>before</u> he went into the Hudson.
Must we again hear these heretical rantings?
Our first night watch is adequate against fire and some violence, but if we were more often able to ensure justice, after the fact, then criminals would truly have something to fear from law enforcement.
Have they nothing to fear presently?
Without disrespect, look around you. We overflow. As do our courts.
And, <u>with</u> disrespect, Constable, if jails and courts overflow, it is testimony to success, not failure.
But, how many innocents rot here? And, how many victims are buried without reprisal while guilty men roam our streets?
Very few, if any.
Even though I have seen confessions pried from the lips of the accused, often quite literally?
For one who calls himself a Federalist, your mouth reeks of Republican liberalism.
Not Liberalism. Equanimity.
There is a farming community upstate, Constable... ten days journey north in the Hudson Highlands. It is named Sleepy Hollow. Within a fortnight, three persons have been murdered there. Each with their head lopped cleanly off. The elders of the Hollow have sent dispatches to me, requesting assistance, and now, just this very moment, I have chosen you.
Chosen me?
These "methods" of yours... there has been no practical application.
Not for lack of trying.
Just so. Granted. And so you take your experimentations to Sleepy Hollow and catch the murderer who has tainted the place. Bring him here to face our good justice. Will you do this for me?
I shall, gladly.
Excellent. Then, you are excused till morning.
Taken. Taken by the Headless Horseman. Taken back to hell.
Pardon me?
Just a moment... Are you saying it is he?
When a goblin leaps from the nether world, others follow. Poltergeists of the air, water and earth follow and cheer his desecrations!
Do you have these persons' wills?
I have everything... last testaments... birth certificates, death certificates... deeds.
Yes, sir... but, do you have these?
May I see them, Master Hardenbrook?
Hmm? See them?
May we look at them now?
Of course. You want them... it shall not take long. Wait here.
Maybe you should take this.
A fine idea.
Damn... damn... damn...
Master Hardenbrook...
Perhaps, I could assist in finding them?
Well... that might be... helpful.
Why not tell us what you have heard? Hmm? How much have your superiors bothered to tell you?
All I know is three are slain, their heads found severed from their bodies...
The heads were not found severed. The heads were not found at all.
It is sacrilege!
I cannot proceed without examining the previous victims.
I will not allow it. I will not!
Protest to my superiors if you like.
Your superiors are two days away!
Then, you should have left two days ago, because I have men willing to help me today.
For poaching. Or, would you remake our laws now that Magistrate Philipse has given up the ghost?
Does that look like an animal hanging?
Only if I repeat them outside this room. And, I will if I must... Out there, for all to hear. Or... you may speak, as planned. But, you tell them you feel compelled to move on to greener pastures.
No. You will not run me out. No one will believe a word of what you say.
Oh? Far as I can tell, a rumor does not travel alone for long here.
Are you a deist? Is that it? A free thinker who does not believe in divinity.
It is only important what you are. An adulterer...
I am the Lord's voice in this town.
Wallowing in sin and lust...
They need guidance.
Wallowing quite literally in blood.
Damn you, sir! God damn you to hell!
He may. But, not soon enough for you, and not on your behalf.
You are so upset now... and yet, you seemed in such good spirits last night.
You cannot do this. I am a man of God!
Climb to the top of the tallest ladder you can find, Father. That is the closest you ever come to God.
An honor, gentlemen. In time I will need every detail of the three murderings you've had, but, for now, I ask only if you have any theory at all as to who the killer might be?
Excuse me?
I say, is there any one person suspect in these acts?
I was afraid of this.
Why did you move the body, Doctor?
To place it inside its coffin.
No bleeding.
What is that?
This should have bled by the pint. Yet, no blistering or scorched flesh. How... ? Whatever weapon was used... it cauterized somehow....
We must be a curious sight to him.
What are you spying on?
The Lenape. He comes to gawk at civilization from time to time.
He is a behemoth.
A diseased monster.
The wounds are the same. Cauterized. No chopping or halfmeasures either. One stroke took the head. Have you seen, doctor... ? Even the spinal bone... sliced as smooth as butter.
I do not care. You are welcome to use my work area, but I beg you... return her to her resting place.
In time, doctor. Soon as I finish.
Keep still, Constable. You were halfdrowned when they found you.
... Brom Bones...
He is dead. You would be also, if your wound had not somehow shut.
Bring Young Masbath here.
You need to sleep.
Bring him.
You need rest.
It has been a terrible jolt to her nerves.
You will stay at her side?
... help yourself, you pompous ass. I will be in bed.
Would you stay, doctor? I may need assistance.
Stains of blood.
What of it?
No clotting or gathering of pus. No healing at all.
What?
When this cut was made, this person was already dead. This is not Lady Van Tassel.
Certainly not.
Excuse me, Miss... They have a laugh at your expense.
We haven't heard your name yet, friend.
Well, unless your name is Baltus, you should not worry over mine.
What the hell are you doing?
You are the blacksmith. Ever shod a horse with a hoof this large?
Never. A shoe that size I would have remembered.
They spend two days in chains.
Two days... ? For murder?
Constable Crane is not the only one who fights with science on his side.
I fired upon the Horseman and the bullet did nothing.
You must have missed your mark.
I hit him square.
I say... if the Horseman is solid enough to take the lives of our people, he's solid enough to feel this...
If we could speak alone.
This is not a time for frivolity, Katrina, is it? Am I mistaken?
Excuse me, gentlemen, but... who has seen this Horseman?
Many have.
Then, name one person who has seen him with their own eyes.
Who took the meat?
Must have been the Redman. A Lenape Indian lives in the Western Woods.
These woods of yours sound a bit crowded, what with all the witches, ghouls and Indians living there.
Hail, Constable. How are you?
Well enough. Your gathering does honor to the deceased.
Um... I... I did not... no. Why?
Sarah has gone missing... my servant girl. Her things are gone. Damn it. She has joined the migration out of town. What about breakfast, woman? Or, am I to starve to death?
Clergyman Steenwyck is calling a meeting. This time he is determined to have you forced out, or worse.
How did you hear this?
He came to me. He promised great violence. Said I should cast you out for my own protection. I must speak honestly. There is no reason to think he will not meet with success.
I mean, won't she talk? She seemed kind of upset.
She did. Bring her back. Now. For a talk.
Soon, you gorgeous thing... tell me... how lonely?
It's that call you were expecting, Vince.
Can you hold? Can you try?
She's a nun, Vince.
I love you, Chris. I always will. I gave you so much. My time. My affection. A bigtime career. And how do you repay me? What's the thanks I get? Where's the loyalty, huh? Where's the love?
And who are you to talk? You were nothing. You couldn't even sing. I must have been out of my mind.
She's acting weird, Vince. Ever since we picked her up.
She's... she's a nun.
Are you nuts? She's not a nun. It's Christy. She's a babe!
We both missed.
Okay, so the problem is still the nun outfit, right?
Where?
Find 'em!
Absolutely not. I am very sorry, but no.
We can save this young woman's life, and imprison a parasite  all in one gesture.
But she's been exposed to the underside of life. She is the underside of life.
And therefore an ideal prospect for rehabilitation.
We're a small convent, Bishop. Surely there are... more appropriate shelters.
Your small convent is in danger of closing, Reverend Mother. The Las Vegas Police Department has offered to make a generous financial donation.
But, Bishop...
St. Katherine's is a Benedictine Order. You have taken a Vow of Hospitality. To all in need.
I lied.
I know.
But, Bishop, surely you realize  this is a most dangerous neighborhood.
And you'll face that danger headon. As if I could stop you. And you have my complete support in this matter. Anything you can do to revitalize this neighborhood would be a blessing.
I don't understand. Where is she?
Her whereabouts are unknown, and we must proceed without her. Pull yourselves together.
Calm down. Think clearly. Mary Robert, do you have any idea who those men were?
She said they were from her old convent.
But... she was a showgirl. She didn't have an old convent.
Las Vegas  she's here somewhere.
But where?
Reverend Mother?
Yes?
Since Mary Clarence came to St. Katherine's, I've been shot at, kidnapped by Mafia hit men, and I've tasted beer. Is that enough experience yet? For final vows?
Is this like your old convent?
Which convent was that, Sister?
Mary Clarence has a background in music. That's what Reverend Mother said.
Really, Mary Clarence? Were you a choirmistress?
We did it! We actually sang a chord!
That was exciting!
He's not like other guys.
He's decent.
He's kind.
I'd rather sing than do anything!
It's better than ice cream.
It's better than springtime.
But, Reverend Mother  everyone loves our new style.
It's brought people back to the church.
Ice cream!
Mary Clarence  you shouldn't have. Where did you get this?
Mary Clarence, don't be silly. You're an example to us all. You've taught us so much. We're singing for the Cardinals, and then  who knows? Maybe the choir can travel  to schools, and nursing homes.
Maybe we can get some of the local kids to sing with us.
Mary Clarence! Sister!
It's no use. She just isn't here.
We can't sing without her! What should we do?
We'll pray  and she'll be there.
You mean  they kidnapped her?
Yes  two men  and they had guns.
An... entertainer?
She wasn't a nun?
Well, I don't care who she is. We can't sing without her!
She's our inspiration!
It's so beautiful...
And what a lovely name. Las Vegas...
The Little Sisters of the Moonlight!
But how do we get there?
Excuse me  has anyone seen a nun?
A Benedictine.
Mary Clarence  you're alive!
Christy.
Not a note.
Impossible.
Yes, Mary Patrick?
Reverend Mother, on behalf of the sisters, I'd like to welcome Mary Clarence to St. Katherine's.
Sister Mary Patrick?
Yes?
I need to see you, at once. Girls, please excuse Sister Mary Patrick for a few moments. Mary Clarence?
Mary Clarence  how is your weaving progressing?
Oh, she's doing just fine, Reverend Mother 
Bless her! There are so many problems in this neighborhood that we could help solve. That's why many of us became nuns. It's marvelous, Reverend Mother.
Really...
She shouldn't have come back. She knew she was in danger.
But  why would anyone kidnap a nun?
She told us about one. The Little Sisters of the Moonlight. In Las Vegas.
All right. It's a beginning. Las Vegas, Nevada.
Peace on Earth.
However, we can also pray for other things.
Measles.
Are you going to shoot us all, tough guy?
Is it worth it? A lot of witnesses here.
It should be here any minute.
Dress rehearsal at four, performance at 8:30. Sharp.
We sound terrible We need Mary Clarence.
We're losing it.
Look what she did with the choir. She made us sing beautifully.
That should have tipped us.
We've got to save her!
We can't leave it up to the Feds!
So that guy in the bar was right? She's like... some kind of nun?
Yeah, right  when I see it.
She's gettin' away!
Forget her! We got the one we need! Step on it!
She was real quiet and peaceful all the way back in the car.
No smartass remarks or nothing.
You didn't shoot!
Neither did you!
I figured if you were gonna, then I wouldn't have to.
That's what I figured, too.
Strip down a nun? You want us to fry?
For like, twelve zillion eternities?
A sweater.
And then we can ice her. No nun, no evil eye.
What's she doing?
She's praying.
Vince  is she... okay?
Maybe.
And if she runs?
Take care of it.
He's so damn cocky. This is different.
It's a bluff, Vince.
You know so much. They've got Christy, and we've got to find her. Get her 8x10, from in front of the lounge. Fax it to every contact we got.
It's done?
Not... totally.
What's the problem?
But, Vince, how do you know she didn't like, join up and become a nun when she was in that convent?
It didn't happen.
I can't believe this. Okay, I want both you guys to go back there, and both of you shoot her at the same time.
Yeah...
Well?
It didn't work, Vince.
You were both supposed to put your guns to her head and shoot.
Right.
So, take it off.
I'm telling you, she's not a nun! Get her out of the nun outfit, and put her in some clothes.
Maybe pants.
Get her!
Which one!
There she is!
Which one?
I can't see anything in here!
Willy  hit the lights.
Joey?
Where is she?
But, boss  she's still, you know, a nun.
She's a broad! Got it! Just some broad!
We're looking for Mike.
You found him  but we're not open yet.
I'm sorry  I don't know what gets into him.
Who are you guys?
We're the guys from Vegas. You had Christy last night, but you let her get away. It's upsetting.
But you didn't tell me!
We didn't tell you what?
That she's a nun! That chick you're looking for  she's a nun!
A nun?
I'm telling you!
We could put you into our witness protection program.
A hiding place.
Then one day they find you.
They open a window.
Jesus. Database hoods. It's a wonderful world. Beloved daughter missing. Reward of two hundred and fifty thousand dollars. Please find our adored angel, we miss her so. Dead or alive.
Vince is getting desperate. Where is she, Eddie? Where'd you stash her?
Where's who?
You won't even tell us?
I wouldn't even tell the Pope.
Hey, girls.
Hail, Mary.
Jerusalem is a real drag. Everybody hates me.
Ohhuh.
People throw stones. They call me names. I mean, really.
Really.
But  wait.
From Vince? What a guy. Doolang, doo lang.
At least he's not a cop. At least he can afford a decent gift.
I used to buy.you,..stuff. On your birthday . When we were seeing each other.
Yeah, like what? Quilted coat hangers, that your mother picked out? Lottery tickets? A travel iron?
So I don't shop.
'Cause you're always out, arresting people. Making trouble. I don't know why I went out with you in the first place, it was embarrassing! I couldn't hold my head up, I used to tell people you were a security guard!
Oh, yeah? Well, how do you think I felt? You were singing in bowling alleys back then. I told people you were a hooker!
He's a businessman.
A what? When are you qonna wake up?
When are you gonna get off my case? Have you got a search warrant? What do you want  cheap thrills?
Information, baby. I thought maybe somebody around here might have a conscience.
Think again! And get out of here.
Right between the eyes! Down and out! The guy was gone! I... I couldn't believe it!
You couldn't believe it? Vince the Prince?
I never said he was an altar boy, okay? But he sent his goons after me! They tried to kill me! I'm not kidding!
I don't know anything about bodies! I mean, he didn't bring it home. He was good to me... sometimes. He was sweet. He took care of me. Who am I supposed to go out with? He owns a casino. He let me sing.
He didn't do you a favor.
Screw you!
And if I don't?
Thenyou run.
Ten flights?
You'd lose. You'd die. All over the sidewalk. And into the street.
All right! I get the picture! I'll do it! I'll testify!
Get a stenographer.
Okay, here's what I want. I know about this stuff. A fivestar hotel. With room service.
Maybe Hawaii.
Jesus, what do you think this is  Wheel of Fortune? Let me spell it out for you. You have to hide like you don't even exist. You have to get so far hidden away that you never see sunlight.
Okay  no limo.
No nothing.
What're you gonna do, put me in a bag and bury me?
I'm gonna put you in the last place on Earth that Vince would ever look for you.
I hate you. I totally hate you.
Safest place in the world. You think Vince would look for you here?
Nuns, Eddie. There are nuns here. Everywhere. It's crawling with 'em.
It's a convent. All you have to do is shut up, behave yourself, and get along.
With nuns? With rulers? No way. I'm gonna go back, work things out with Vince.
And one bullet. That's all it's gonna take.
But Vince has contacts all over the place! This is San Francisco! They'll be looking for me!
Everywhere but this little holeinthe wall convent. Nobody knows you're here but me. We're trying to get a quick court date. A month, maybe two, tops. I'll spring you as soon as I can.
I can't stay here! I'll crack up! Eddie, what am I gonna do?
Pray.
Eddie, you've got to get me out of here.
Not again. You can't keep calling. Somebody's going to catch on to where you are.
But I'm going insane! All these people do is pray and work, work and pray! I don't get it  when's the weekend? They have gruel, Eddie, that's what they call food! Gruel  it's like Alpo for nuns! I sleep in a cell, on a board, and I pray five times a days Do you know what I pray for, Eddie, do you have any idea? Check your crotch, Eddie anything fall off yet? Get me outta her!
Calm down. Look, I didn't want to tell you this, but we've had some problems with our protection program lately.
Like what?
Keeping our witnesses alive. We hide them, but there's a leak in the department, and they end up dead.
You sonofabitch!
I just need a few more weeks,
But it's a nightmare! Mother Superior is out to get me! She hates my guts! She keeps thinking up new kinds of torture!
Do you hear that? That choir? Eddie, in here, that's what they call music!
Don't call again. It's not safe. I'll be in touch.
What'd she say?
You blew it  big time. She doesn't want you back.
Does she know people are trying to kill me out there?
She's counting on it. She's concerned for your safety, but she wants me to try and find another convent that will take you. Or a carnival.
So what am I supposed to do in the meantime?
Go in and talk to her. It can't hurt. Go.
Eddie! You scared the hell out of me!
What if I was Vince? You'd be dead right now. What are you doing giving interviews on TV?
It wasn't my fault! They just showed up. It's helping the convent.
You're supposed to be hiding out!
I really can't talk about it now. The place is packed. SRO. I've got a show to do.
Listen to yourself. This isn't a career opportunity.
I know that. This isn't about me. It's about the choir. You should hear them. They're good. Really good. And I taught them.
Jesus, look at you You're glowing.
I am?
Yeah. You look... great. I mean it..
Really? Lieutenant?
I've been worried about you.
You mean  worried about my testimony?
No  worried about you. Personally.
Well.. thanks. I've been thinking about you..  sometimes. I mean, there aren't a lot of guys around here. I mean, sometimes I feel like... a nun.
Me too.
You're not... seeing anybody?
No. Most of the time I'm thinking about you. And now... you've really changed.
I have?
You re sort of... radiant. your eyes are shining. You're rea1ly different...
I've got to go.
Just remember  you're a target. Don't you think Vince has a T.V.?
I know, I know. I'll be careful. I'll try.
Vince knows you're here.
How?
Long story. His goons will be here any minute. We've got to get you out of here ' now!
I can't go with you.
What?
I've got a show  at St. Matthew's Cathedral. We're singing for the Cardinals.
You're gonna be singing for St. Peter if you don't get your ass out of here!
Eddie  I've got to go back. They won't sing without me. I'm deserting them.
I think they'd understand.
That's not the point! They need me!
They need you? A bunch of nuns? For what? Moral guidance? Makeup tips?
You don't get it! It's a big thing for them, it's like... Caesar's Palace. Primetime. They're singing for the Cardinals. It's like... "Star Search." If first prize was a trip to the Vatican. They've worked really hard, they deserve this.
Nuns?
What're you doing?
Even nuns have to pee.
Don't you have a concert to go to?
That depends. Sisters, you don't know this, but Reverend Mother's been making all sorts of noises about resigning. That's bad news. I don't know if we could sing, if we thought that was true.
Yeah, Eddie, thanks a whole bunch. Thanks for sticking me in a convent. So you think, after all this, maybe I really am a nun?
I don't know. There's only one way to be absolutely sure.
Yeah, like what?
A convent? They put me in a convent? What's the problem? Wasn't there any more room in Hell?
What is your full name? Your Christian name?
Mother Theresa. Gandhi. Don't you understand? This is all a mistake. I'm the good guy. I'm the witness. And I'm being punished!
Your name?
Christy. Christy Van Cartier.
Enough joking.
That's my real name! Currently I'm a singer. Sort of.
Very well.
Oh my God. This isn't happening, tell me this isn't happening. It's a nightmare, I'm back at St. Anne's!
St. Anne's?
Parochial school. Akron. St. Android's.
You were unhappy?
I was expelled! When I was fifteen?
The reason?
Beats me! What do you think? Smoking! Heavy petting, without a chaperone. Heavy petting, with the chaperone. And wearing a black bra, under my uniform. The demon bra.
I see.
You see? You see? I have to get out of here I have to make a phone call. Don't you get it? I'm in a convent! You're a nun!
Sit down.
What?
Miss Van Cartier.
What?
Your cigarette  out.
It has come to pass.
What?
I joined this convent some thirty years ago. At that time, the world knew some measure of peace. And hope. Our order was a beacon of hospitality, to families, to children, to a neighborhood filled with promise. And, as the years have passed, I have watched that promise destroyed. Drugs. Gangs. Spandex. And. so I have made this convent an oasis, a retreat from horror. And now that horror has invaded these sacred walls.
Are you talking about me?
And all those like you.
You mean black people?
Absolutely not. I mean the wicked. The heedless. And their Las Vegas concubines.
What's a concubine?
Check your driver's license.
Fine. Got it. Look, the way I see it, I'm stuck here, right? I mean, I'm here or I'm target practice. So here's the deal  I don't bug you, you don't bug me. I'll catch up on some sleep, watch some tube, lay back and lay low. So just get me a key and show me to my room, and do not disturb. Capisce?
Of course. But it's almost lunch.
Cool. Is there a menu? Or buffet?
Before we do, you might like to freshen up. And you'll certainly want to change
Deal.
How about a robe? One of those big terry cloth jobs, with like embroidery on the pocket. "Guest of St. Katherine's"
Would you like that?
Excused. Open the cabinet to your left. You will find appropriate attire.
Can do.
No! No! I can't do this!
Normally dressed, you are a sore thumb, and you endanger us all. While you are here, you will conduct yourself as a nun. Only I shall know who, and what, you truly are. You will not disrupt the convent. You will not influence the Sisters with your colorful street talk. You will draw no attention to yourself in any way.
But look at rites Look at this! I'm a nun! I'm invisible! I'm a penguin!
As of now, and until you leave, you are Sister Mary Clarence.
Mary Clarence? Like a guy? Like a dumb guy?
The Mary is in deference to the Holy Mother, the Clarence in honor of Saint Clarence Loyola. There are three vows that every nun must accept. The vow of poverty...
No problem.
The vow of obedience.
Like to who?
And the vow of chastity.
I'm outta here.
Sisters, for the rest of the day we shall declare a Vow of Silence.
A what?
Surely you are familiar with this practice, Mary Clarence. Only when our lips are silent, can our prayers truly be heard.
Silence? No talking? All day?
Until sundown.
As a new member of our order, I think you might also enjoy a ritual fast.
A what?
A fast. To remind us of the poor, of those who must endure without enough to eat.
No food?
No food. Not until sundown.
Is this all the food I get?
Yes. Until breakfast.
That's tomorrow! Don't you have any snacks? Machines?
This shall be your cell, Mary Clarence.
My what?
Your cell. Your room.
You were right the first time. Is this like, solitary? The cooler? Where's the furniture?
Our lives are simple. We have little need for material possessions.
Right, sure thing. But what about, like, appliances? Like a little color portable? Boom box?
Useless distractions.
It's like the Stone Age. The room time forgot. What about a phone?
And whom would you call?
Oh, I don't know... Satan?
Your cell is more than adequate.
Right. So what do we do now? Ping Pong? Row over to the monastery?
It is nine p.m. Pleasant dreams.
Wait. No. You're kidding. Lights out? At nine? My day's just starting.
I'm sure. If I were you, I would use this time, to think about my life. And its direction. Or lack thereof.
What's wrong with my life?
From all I've heard, just about everything. Your singing career seems all but nonexistent, and your married lover wants you dead.
Yeah?
Girls, this is Sister Mary Clarence. She'll be minding you until Sister Mary Patrick's return. Mary Clarence, please assign a biblical passage. Do not attempt discussion. Am I understood?
I got it.
Come, Sister.
Deal with it, sweet thing. It's important, nowadays. You just practice at home, with a balloon and a banana.
Mary Clarence!
A balloon and a banana! Tell me, Mary Clarence, what were you thinking?
Those girls were asking questions. They've got it rough. I wish somebody had talked to me about that stuff when was their age. I wish somebody would talk to me about it now.
This is a convent, not a clinic. We offer moral guidance, not hardware.
Have you been out in those streets? Do you know what those kids are up against? You should help them!
We are nuns. We seek solutions through prayer.
Sometimes it's not enough!
You are correct. Sometimes prayer alone cannot help a situation. Such as your own, for example. How do you feel about physical labor?
It never solves anything.
Do your recall the words of Saint Peter, in Ecciesiastes 1:27? He spoke unto a wastrel youth. He said, "Take up thy task, and know ye the path of contentment."
In English?
How to put it... ah, Of course, Mary Clarence. "No pain, no gain."
Really catching on.
Good. Mary Patrick, I need you in the office. Mary Clarence, carry on.
I'm sorry, I'm not a weaver!
Months of work, and the loom, absolutely ruined!
Look, this isn't my kind of thing! I wasn't cut out to make little tapestries, or knit little sweaters! I don't do that! I'm a star!
So... hi there.
I don't believe we have anything to say to each other.
Look... I know I shouldn't have, I'm incredibly sorry about Mary Robert, I wasn't thinking, I didn't know that would happen!
Mary Robert's life was in danger! Your behavior was inexcusable!
I know! I'm sorry I didn't mean for it to happen! And I was the one they were shooting at!
Mary Clarence, I have given you every opportunity. To change. To make a decent life for yourself.
A decent life? Excuse me? As what? A janitor?
Clearly, you have learned nothing. And you present an ongoing threat, both to this convent and to yourself.
But you can't kick me out! Guys want to kill me! You're a nun! A big nun! Aren't you supposed to have compassion? For the wayward sheep? I mean, I'm a major sinner! Alltime great! Hall of Fame! Aren't I, like, your dream come true? Your Olympic event?
Mary Clarence, perhaps you are correct.
I am?
You may stay. But I shall restrict your activities to but a single task.
What?
You have, I believe, some minimal background in music. Therefore, you are to join our choir.
You will sing, and you will sleep,' that is your schedule until you depart. As almost no one attends Mass, you will be unable to cause further damage.
No. No.
You're my Olympic event.
Not the choir, please, anything but that. The choir  I mean, have you heard them? I'll do anything, scrub floors, toilets, you name it, but not that I
The choir, Mary Clarence. Go for the gold.
I was thinking Las Vegas. Get some butts in those seats.
And what next? Popcorn? Curtain calls? This is not a theater. or a casino.
Exactly. People like going to theaters and casinos. But they think church is for Grandma  we could change that. Pack the joint.
Through blasphemy? You have corrupted the entire choir!
Hold on. That's not fair. I worked hard with them. They gave up their free time, and they loved it. Those women are happy. And we can get even better. We can wake this place up.
Out of the question.
Please let me try. I'm begging you.
And I am refusing. As of tomorrow, Mary Lazarus will resume her leadership of the choir.
And on such an occasion, I feel a completely traditional program will be best.
What do you mean?
The council of Cardinals is perhaps the most esteemed body in the entire Catholic church. They command the utmost respect. Your more... secular entertainment would be wholly out of place.
Isn't that why we were asked to sing for those Cardinals?
I believe this can be settled by a simple vote.
A vote?
Of course. Mary Clarence, a convent is not a totalitarian state. Most major decisions are made by the membership as a whole. A membership that, I am certain, will vote in a rational and pious manner. All those in favor of allowing Mary Clarence to select a program?
But... wait a minute...
The majority has spoken.
You sent for me?
You have a phone call.
Hey  your prayers have been answered. I'm leaving. In just a couple of days.
Really. Well, that makes two of us.
What?
I have submitted my resignation to Bishop O'Hara. Privately. I have asked to be relocated as soon as possible.
But  why?
I must go where I can be of use.
But  there's so much more to do right here. And look, if it's about me, I mean, I'm gone.
Indeed. After how long? A few weeks? I have been here thirty years. And yet, it would seem, I know nothing.
But everything that's happening is good! You can be a part of it!
A part of what? Mary Clarence, it is one thing to rabble rouse, to sweep into town and declare a holiday. You have raised the Sisters' expectations, you have excited and confused them. They imagine this neighborhood to be some sort of delightful ongoing block party.
You and I know that life is not so simple. There will be disappointments. Rude shocks. And you will have vanished. How... fortunate.
Okay, so I just got things started. But you could build on that. You could keep it going.
I am sorry, Mary Clarence. I seem to have misplaced my tambourine. Good day, Mary Clarence.
But...
Good day.
What are you doing here?
Saving you. Move!
Reverend Mother  Thankyou.
Oh?
You saved my life.
I'm a Christian.
Then I guess you're stuck. Life sentence. No parole.
Very well. I hold you responsible for all of this, For introducing a lounge act into my convent. For utterly disrupting our way of life. And for placing all of us in mortal danger. Thankyou.
I don't think so. What about skydiving? A crank call to Billy Graham?
You have evidenced great maturity, Mary Robert. We shall have a serious discussion.
What about me, Reverend Mother? I think you were right. I'm just a bad influence. Sister show biz.
Perhaps not. Perhaps we can all use... a little Spandex.
Really? And maybe shorter habits, and women priests, and sleeping late?
Don't push it.
Come on, we're late.
What? What time is it?
It's after five. We have to bathe.
Five a.m.?
What? What does she want now? I did the dishes. I oiled the pews. I dusted the hymnals. Two hundred hymnals. Why can't people share?
I... I...
What?
I... I brought you something.
A cigarette?
An extra heel of bread. Please take it, you need your strength. You've been working so hard.
Thanks. So which one are you? Sister Bruce? Sister Doug?
Mary Robert. I'm... Mary Robert.
Right. Okay. Bob. Nice to know you.
So, Bob, how long have you been in? St. K's?
Three years. Sister.
Three years. A rookie.
A novice.
Yeah, like a learner's permit, right? When do you hit the big time? You know, when do you take the final vows?
You have to help me
Right, sure, but what's the problem? Are they keeping you a prisoner here? Do they drug you? Did Reverend Mother like, kidnap your parents? We can call the Enquirer.
No, you don't understand  I don't want to get out! I want to get in?
Excuse me?
Oh. Mary Clarence, I'm so unworthy. I want to take my final vows, I would do it tomorrow, but Reverend Mother won't let me!
She won't? Why not?
She says I should wait. She says that no one should become a nun as an escape from life. She says that I'm not experienced enough to make the decision yet. In a mature manner.
She said that? Reverend Mother?
Well, then there's only one thing to do.
What?
Reverend Mother says you need experience, right, in life. In order to make a responsible decision. This is going to be very painful for me. You know how much I love this little room. This whole convent. Wait.
We must do this sacred thing, Mary Robert.
Of course! We must do it! It's the will of God! What is it?
We must... get you some experience. We must... leave this place.
Are you sure?
Mary Clarence!
Now you.
We need experience.
It's part of St. Katherine's new community outreach program. How old are you? You shouldn't be smoking. Have you ever seen a diseased lung? Hand 'em over.
Bobs
Experience! Right?
Right.
I have to do this. So I can become a nun.
Initiation. You understand. Later on, we make her wear her underwear on her head.
Really?
Who are all these people?
This is your neighborhood. Your turf. You should get to know 'em.
I'm getting experience.
You watch yourself!
Those people are wonderful! Why don't we ever see them in church?
Good point. Especially that dude you were with. I'd like to see him down front.
Mary Clarence! You're so... different from the other sisters. Sometimes, well... sometimes you sound more like a layperson.
Honey.
I can't wait to tell Reverend Mother about all my experiences. I've learned so much.
Well, you know, you don't have to tell her everything. I mean, nothing really happened. We just... took a walk.
Mary Clarence!
Keep moving!
Goddamn it!
Mary Clarence!
Oh my Lord!
Experience!
What was all that? Who was that man? Why would he shoot at us?
I don't know, some people just don't like nuns. I wish I had a ruler.
We could have been killed! But you saved me! Thank you, Mary Clarence!
Mary Robert, I am so sorry about last night...
Now stop that. You didn't shoot at me. You were only trying to help, to give me experience. I tried to explain that to Reverend Mother, but  I don't know if she understood.
What?
Mary Robert, I've watched you. You never really sing. You whisper. Nothing comes out.
I don't want to mess anyone up...
Give me a C. A C!
WE'RE THE SISTERS OF THE SACRED HEART WE DO OUR BIT, NOW DO YOUR PART
HONOR THY MOTHER AND THY FATHER TOO DON'T KILL, DON'T STEAL, IT'S BAD FOR YOU
Yes, prayer is the answer, and prayers free We're going to give free prayers to everyone who drives up to this house.
We're nuns!
It's contraband. Don't ask. But I wanted to give you a treat. A sort of... thankyou gift.
A thankyou? For what? You're the one we should be thanking.
Are you leaving us?
Oh no. We'll always be together.
The Council of Cardinals! I'm so nervous! What if I forget the words?
Right to Hell. Just kidding. Where is that bus?
Wait, this isn't the way. Who are you?
They're from my old convent.
Run! Take off!
Again?
But what do they want? Where are we going?
She's got nothing to do with this. Let her go.
Mary Clarence!
Bless you.
I WAS DOWNHEARTED
It's true!
I WAS HELLBOUND, YES THAT'S WHAT THEY SAY SATAN WAS WAITING
Don't you know it!
BUT THE LORD CAME TO ME
What did He say?
HE SAID, SING THE DEVIL AWAY!
Which convent? It was, um, the Little Sisters... of the Moonlight. In Vegas. Everybody used to come to Mass. Frank. Dean. Sammy. Right at ringside.
Enough jabber.
What?
Progressive convents. Vanity. It sounds awful. It sounds just like this place.
Like this place?
I like my old convent, in Vancouver. Out in the woods. It wasn't all modern, like here. No electricity. Cold water. Bare feet. Those were nuns. It was Hell on earth, but I loved it. This place is a Hilton.
Shirelles.
You know that song?
Soprano or alto?
Whatever.
Mary Clarence, are you with us?
Um, I don't really know this one...
Sure. Kind of... freelance.
Freelance? Oh really? You think I don't see? You think I took vows yesterday? I know what you're up to. You and Reverend Mother.
What?
You're a ringer. She brought you in to replace me. Out with the old.
Very nice. Sisters, have we learned our lesson? I won't hold this little episode against anyone. I'll try not to.
Mary Robert.
Yeah, for one second. That was the blend  you've got to listen to each other. Be a group.
I knew that.
Mary Lazarus, I get the feeling that you like discipline. Hard work.
Of course. I'm a nun. Four Popes now. The Lord hates a loafer.
I hear you. How many days a week do you rehearse?
I don't know. Mary Lazarus, what do you think? They're pretty raw.
Wet behind the ears.
A bunch of real mama's girls.
It'll be hell.
Tell me about it.
Don't look at your feet, and I don't want to see anybody counting. Make it look easy. Again!
Right, right, cross with the left, spin and turn!
Hopeless I
Amateurs 2
Babies
Again!
She's a pro.
What?
Is there any syrup?
Well... see, at my old convent, I wasn't always... real popular. I was sort of selfish and... not real helpful. Okay, I'll say it  I wasn't much of a nun. But now, thanks to all of you... maybe I'm shaping up.
We could cut a demo. Look for a label.
That's true, wouldn't that be great. Of course, we never know when things are going to change. Any one of us could be transferred to another convent, tomorrow.
Van Cartier.
You know? About me? About everything?
Hey  you re supposed to be the cheerful one. Why do I suddenly feel like Snow White?
You re okay  for a civilian.
JUST SING!
Sing!
Isn't it a glorious morning? Good morning, Mary Clarence. sleep well?
Right.
Where did that come from?
I haven't heard that song in ages. The Ronettes?
1961? '62? Mary Clarence, that's when many of us took final vows. It's the last secular music we recall.
No. HEY  HE KNOWS THAT YOU BEEN CREATING NOW YOU'RE GONNA GET A BEATING
The minute I saw you. I said to myself, she's a weaver. Have you ever used a loom?
Not in years.
Well, it all comes back, in just a jiffy. I'm working on a wallhanging, of the convent.
Why?
To sell, of course. I hate to say it, but we're in terrible trouble here at St. Katherine's. We need a new roof, the furnace is going, and there's no money.
But don't you get money? From the Vatican?
Mary Clarence. Goose. We're completely selfsupporting. Like all convents. Like yours.
Oh, right. At my old place, we used to... wash cars. Groom dogs. So... nice loom.
Isn't it lovely? Now I'll demonstrate, and then you can hop right in. You just draw your beater in, keep it pressed against the pick, and open the shed. Then pass your shuttle, beat, and open the next shed. Shuttle. beat, beat, shuttle, beat, shed. Keep tension on the warp. Is that clear?
Just about. Show me again.
You betcha.
Shuttle, beat, shed. And watch your heddles.
I love my heddles. Show me again.
Is this... choir practice?
Sure is! Come on in, and sing a spell.
Hold on.
Mary Clarence, could you? Mary Lazarus, you're terrific, but... Could you help us?
You see? We've got the voices. They're just allover the place. I've heard all of you, in the shower you're decent. Better than me. We just need charts  harmony  chops.
Chops?
The goods. The sound. The sale. Let's rearrange a few things. Mary Patrick, you re not a natural soprano, you're an alto. Get over here. Mary Robert with the sopranos.
Two days. An hour or so.
No way. We're a choir, right? Headliners. The big room. Two days a week won't cut it. Every day.
That machine.
I know. It's ancient.
It's a rhythm section. The beat.
Mary Patrick  do you remember the Dixie Cups?
The Dixie Cups? Oh my. I was just a girl. Of course. SPRING IS HERE THE SUN WILL SHINE
Hold it. Mary Patrick, you're a pretty cheerful person, aren't you?
Am I?
All right, I am, I know it! All my life, I've just been... upbeat. Optimistic. Perky. I can't help it. Even when I was little, I remember my mother used to say, "That child is pure sunshine. She'll either be a nun  or a stewardess."
So use it. When we sing hymns, they're usually about rejoicing, right? Celebration. Most music is. So don't hold back. Let all that joy go right into your voice. Make me happy. Let me hear it. Perk out. Perk down.
SPRING IS HERE THE SUN WILL SHINE I'LL BE HIS AND HE'LL BE MINE WE'LL LOVE UNTIL THE END OF TIME AND WE'LL NEVER BE LONELY ANYMORE
Because we're
We know you don't want to bring pain and misery to your friends and neighbors. We'll pray to find you some honest work.
And we know that, even though most people would call you a leech and a parasite, the lowest slug of humanity! We know that deep down inside, you're probably even worse. And so you truly need our prayers.
What is it, Mary?
That man  who is he?
Jackpot! Two buckets
This is so exhilarating! All week long, I can't wait till Sunday, when we sing.
Hurry, Sister!
Get moving. I'm right behind you.
MY SOUL WAS IN DANGER I'D FALLEN FROM GRACE
It's true  I know her.
DAMNATION WAS ALL I COULD SEE
What a shame!
BUT THEN CAME AN ANGEL WHO WHISPERED THESE WORDS
Pay attention...
SING AND THE DEVIL WILL FLEE!
Were you wicked?
Oh, girls.
Yes, Betty?
This prom is a real drag.
Ohhuh.
Oh my!
What is it, Betty?
Look at that. Get a gander.
Oh my!
He's so dreamy. He's like... a Greek god. He's the cutest guy here. He's boss. He's fab. He's...
Yes, Betty?
HE'S SO FINE.
D00LANG, DOOLANG, D00LANG.
WISH HE WAS MINE. THAT HANDSOME BOY OVER THERE, THE ONE WITH THE WAVY HAIR.
Come on  stay. Just a little. We can talk, I'll get a pizza. Pizza in bed, we'll have fun. And you still haven't told me what happened. What did she say?
What did who say?
Who? The other woman. Your wife.
You are so damn sexy.
Vince...
How did I get so lucky? What is it now, five years we've been together? Who do I thank?
Today was the deadline, Vince.
I want us to be together. Like people. Honest, decent people. In the eyes of God. Babe, today... I went to confession.
You did what?
For the first time in I don't know how long. I wanted everything done right. Open and above board. I told Father Antonelli I was in love. I told him it was a special love, for all the ages.
You said that? And what did he say? Did he say you could leave her? Did he say we'd be happy?
He said that if I got a divorce I'd burn in Hell. For all eternity.
What?
You want me to go against a priest? Get excommunicated? You think I'm nuts?
You bastard!
We can still see each other. Just like always. It's a different kind of sin. Smaller.
You pig!
Babe, it's not me! I love you! It's God!
You lying sleazeball! The best years of my life! What am I, garbage? Am I lint?
No... it's fine.
Yes?
Thanks. A lot.
Is that why you came up here, Christy? To thank me?
Sure.
And to say you're sorry. About this afternoon. And the things you said. Forgotten. Completely. Do you understand? Forgotten.
Right. Yeah. Forgotten.
Babe, what happened here? Look at you.
Good evening, Vincent.
What, Vincent? This is me, doll. I know you. What did you think you were doing? Running to the cops. Hiding out. No, no. You're sorry now, aren't you?
I am sorry for all my sins. And yours.
She's afraid. Come on, tell the boys you're afraid.
I feel sorry for you, Vincent. And I forgive you.
Right here. Let the others go  they have nothing to do with this.
Joey  do it.
I was good to you! You re nothing but notalent garbage! You're a twobit Tramp!
That used to be true, Vince. I was with you. But something happened. And I'm different now. Realdifferent. I've had, well, you might call it  a religious experience. And I've got just two words for you. And those two words are...
What do you want? This is a private area! Get lost!
You ain't got nothin' I ain't seen.
Then stop trying to memorize it. Hit the road.
His ashes?
With love.
Yeah, right to the cops. No way.
Mary Robert, don't panic. Remember what we talked about? Experience?
What?
You can handle this.
Okay, Christy  strip.
What?
That... thing. That nun thing. Take it off.
So, hi there. I'm... Sister Mary Clarence. And you're... young Christians. I guess I should assign you this passage. What's good? What were you talking about?
We were talking about the wild thing. Teen promiscuity.
How come? Sister?
Well... because it's in the Bible. "Thou shalt not..." Thou shalt not.
Excuse me  just what are you all doing here? At Sunday School?
'Cause we love it so damn much. And cause we gotta come here. Probation.
Probation?
Well, what about the sex stuff? What if some dude is after you, and he's always saying stuff, commin' on sweet and mellow. Like, oh, baby, you know you'll love it. Oh, baby, if you loved me, you'd stay.
And you listen to that?
No, but... I don't know... sometimes.
Hey, I know, it's hard. But do what I do.
What you do?
Just tell him, I do love you, but I can't  I'm a nun.
How are you doing.
Hey, Sisters. Are you going in there?
You know it.
LET THY THOUGHTS BE GUIDED
What you say?
LET THY SOUL BE HEALED
But how?
BY A VOICE YOU HEAR FROM ON HIGH
I think I hear it!
LET THY THOUGHTS BE GUIDED
You know, I just might!
LET THY SOUL BE HEALED
LET THY SPIRIT
You know what we're saying!
LET THY SPIRIT
I think they hear you!
He's... dreamy. He's...
Yes, Mary?
HE'S SO FINE...
SING!
Were you tempted?
SING! SING AND YOUR SPIRIT WILL SOAR!
But I'm fearful!
SING!
And I'm tearful!
SING!
YES I'LL SING AND KNOW JOY EVERMORE
Really.
Yeah. Sister Mary Pat was discussing it. You know she thinks it's a sin.
Well... yes. Yes it is.
Yeah. We all got caught. Shoplifting. Cuttin' school. Cuttin' up some bitch with a blade. So we gotta come here. So we'll be good, in the future. So we'll learn valuable lessons. And I learned mine. I will be incredibly good, I will never rip out nobody's nosering by accident ever again. Can I go now?
Yeah, you learned a whole lot, I can tell.
Okay, so maybe I'm a nun  so, you want to ask me something? You want to listen, for once in your little lives? You want to pay some attention?
What about crack? You a user?
I said I was a nun, not an asshole.
Reverend Mother, I just wanted to congratulate you.
Oh?
I haven't enjoyed Mass this much in years. What a marvelous program. Innovative. Inspiring. You are to be commended.
Well... thank you.
I can't wait until next Sunday, when the choir performs again. Did you see the people walk right in from the street? That music, that heavenly music  it called to them.
Perhaps.
I must tell the Cardinal. I.11 send him a personal letter, describing your efforts, your bold new fight to keep your little convent alive.
Really?
I come here because Marty needs a friend.
Yes... you've always been that to him. But if you can't leave your booze in whatever dump you call home, you better just stay away.
So have I, actually... I wish it could always be like this.
See me around to my car, Marty, and make sure I stay out of trouble at least that long.
Remember, Al... we'll be at the RitzCarlton in Boston tomorrow night! Or at the funeral parlor. It's Stickney and
and Babcock, I remember. Now go on!
And don't open the door for any trick or treaters even if they come!
We won't!
You kids go to bed on time! You've got school tomorrow!
If you keep doing that, you're going to bump your head, sissy. Give my love to Mama tell her I'll see her Thursday.
I will be good, kids.
Ralph Houk! You can't bet a manager! Stone the crows!
Okay, okay. Dwight Evans.
Piss on him. Piss on all the Red Sox.
Mom!
Let the boy finish the game, Nan.
You all right, Marty?
Yeah.
There's a saying soandso was better than a poke in the eye with a sharp stick. You ever hear that one?
No.
Well, I'm not sure that was. Christ! They better get the guy.
Uncle Al, what if it's not a guy?
Huh?
What if it's some kind of monster?
What's going on at Owen's, Uncle Al?
A bunch of men getting ready to pretend they're Clint Eastwood... Marty, didn't anybody ever tell you that the only monsters are in comic books and drivein movies?
It isn't enough that the monster killed all those people that he killed Brady. Now he's got them to cancel the fair.
And the fireworks. Hand me that box, Marty.
Yeah, okay, the fireworks. Jane thinks that's all I'm mad about, but it's not. Them doing that is just a... a...
It's just an outward symbol of everything that's inwardly wrong in this town. Not bad, huh? I read Sherwood Anderson in college. I can jive that shit all day.
Well... I like it that you always know how to say things, Uncle Al.
I'll give you the telephone numbers of my exwives, dear boy they'll be interested to hear that.
Don't call me dear boy.
But you are, you know you are my dear boy.
Your mom's not around, is she?
She and dad are out back lighting the barbecue. Jane's walking around like she's King Shit of Turd Mountain. Like always.
Uhhuh. Only in her case I guess it would be Queen Shit of Turd Mountain. Hand me that adjustable.
Yeah, Winesburg, Ohio, was never like that... but I got something that just might cheer you up.
What?
Wait, dear boy. Just wait. Hand me those pliars.
You got a pilot's license, Marty?
Do I need one?
We're gonna find out. Take it down the road a ways and back. Be careful.
You gave me a heart attack, Marty. I'm dying. I hope you're happy, because you are looking at a dying man.
It really goes fast. Thanks, Uncle Al.
It goes fast, all right and if your mother finds out just how fast, Marty, I will have a new job. Singing soprano with the Vienna Boys' Choir.
I don't get you.
I know you don't. But I want this to be our secret. You get that, don't you?
Sure.
Good.
Now I said I had something for you, as I believe you will recall.
Yeah! What is it?
Stay near the house, for Christ's sake someone's killing people. I have to be out of my mind to be doing this, you know.
Yeah, I know. It's great!
One of the reasons I love you, Marty, is that you're almost as crazy as I am. Please don't set off anything that goes bang tonight, okay? Just bright colors. Can you tell the difference?
Yeah... sure.
Save this one for last.
What is it?
A tracer. You'll like it.
Thanks a million, Uncle Al!
You're welcome a million, Marty. Stick 'em in the bushes for now.
It came for me! I shot it in the eye! Now he's wearing an eyepatch!
I called Peltzer on my way over here, Marty! Father Lowe came into the drugstore two days ago for a bottle of otic solution. That's a fancy way of saying eyewash. He's got a corneal inflammation.
Was it a prescription?
What the hell does that matter?
It wasn't I'll bet you it wasn't. Because to get a prescription he'd have to see a doctor.
Marty, Marty, you should hear yourself!
Well... was it a prescription?
I don't know. But I know you didn't see any werewolf the other night, Marty. You had a dream, that's all. An extremely realistic nightmare brought on by what's been happening in this town.
What about the baseball bat Jane saw in his shed? You know who used to have a baseball bat like that? Mr. Knopfler! He was so proud of it he used to carry it in the Fourth of July parade! Jane said it looked like the Green Giant used it for a toothpick!
You want to know what I think?
No we just got you out here so we could admire your pretty face.
Watch it, dear boy. I think it was a hallucination. Probably a broomstick, or something.
I'll bet you a quarter that eyewash stuff was nonprescription. And I'll bet you another quarter he hasn't said anything to Mr. Haller.
Marty, do you see your suspect?
Do you really think that a man who took a rocket in the eye three nights ago could be out mowing his lawn? He'd either be in the hospital... or dead.
I didn't shoot him when he was a man. I shot him when he was
When he was a werewolf. Yes. Right. Jesus. Jane, you don't really believe this madness, do you?
Well... it's a lot easier to swallow without the hair and the foaming jaws. Also, I checked on the otic solution. It was counter brand. No prescription needed.
I told you!
Shut up, dear boy no gloating allowed.
After Marty called me with his latest Thrilling Tale of Wonder, I did. He's had no poisonpen complaints lodged at all.
I told you!
No... but I found some blood, smeared on a tree trunk in that grove.
There! You see!
It could have been anything, Marty.
What about Father Lowe chasing me in his car and trying to run me down? You don't think that was a dream, do you?
No.
Mr. Haller said he'd check him out, and guess what? No one sees him again!
And what do you suggest I do about it, dear boy?
I want you to turn this into a silver bullet.
You're not going to let it go, are you?
I saw what I saw.
Marty, the moon wasn't even full!
No one knows how cancer begins, either or exactly what it is but people still believe in it.
The kid is eleven years old and already he sounds like a Jesuit. A French Jesuit.
I think he's going to come for me. Not just because I know who he is, but because I hurt him. Only I don't think he'll try again as Lowe.
Dear boy, you have gone right out of your mind.
Will you do it?
Yeah? Really?
Yeah. Really. The bitch of it is, we still are. Learn from your elders, dearies.
I suppose so. You kids ought to go up to bed.
But Uncle Al! You said
I know what I said, Marty but it's ten past one. He's not coming.
What if I say no?
Then I'd have to kick your ass, dear boy. Go on, now.
You booger.
That's what my sister says, too. Pretty soon I'm going to start checking the mirror to see if I'm turning green.
Not bad, huh? My Uncle Al took off the regular muffler and put on a Cherry Bomb.
What's that?
Glasspack. He said he'd come over sometime this summer and we'd soup up the engine... but now I dunno. He's getting a divorce and he's in the doghouse with my mother.
For getting a divorce?
Well... it is his third.
I used to see her every day, and she never knew what was going to happen to her, and neither did I! I mean I know how stupid that sounds, but...
Hey, take it easy. I know how you feel.
There's something else scary.
What?
I've been hearing noises in there.
What kind of noises?
Rattling. Rustling.
Rats...
And my dad says it's kids. But it's not rats and it's not kids. It's
Well, it's probably nothing. I'm just spooked since... you know.
Yeah... but if you hear any more noises, tell your father. Okay?
Okay. Have you got enough gas to get home, Marty?
You always take his side because he's a cripple! Well, it's not my fault that he's a cripple!
Come on, Jane it was Brady's idea. I couldn't stop him.
Brady's a booger and so are you!
Did he really get his head cut off, Dad? That's what Brady said.
If you don't stop it I'm going to vomit. I mean it.
What's the money for?
A new pair of panty hose. Is it enough?
I don't want your money. You're a booger.
It was Brady's idea, Jane. Honest to God. Please take the money. I want to make up.
Mom was really mad at him this time, wasn't she?
What do you expect, when he comes in smelling like a brewery and looking like an unmade bed?
Stop it!
Yes. Go away.
Let me help you up.
Marty? You okay? You've just been sitting here all morning.
Where's Mom?
Went shopping. Why?
Jane, I have to talk to you.
Jane... you don't have to do that.
Don't tell me what I have to do and what I don't, boogerbrains.
Will you marry me, Jane?
Please, Uncle Al.
Will you?
Don't you touch me, snotbrains!
Jane
Are you all right, Marty?
All except my legs... I don't think I can walk.
You're a real booger, you know it?
HolyjumpedupbaldheadedJesusCHRIST!
Uncle Al
If Father Lowe is an innocent little lamb, why hasn't he picked up the telephone and called Constable Haller to tell him Marty's sending poisonpen letters?
I don't accept the idea that he knows who his letter writer is, Jane. Because I don't accept the idea that there was a big bad wolf who saw Marty in his wheelchair.
Why hasn't he picked up the phone and told Constable Haller that someone is sending him poisonpen letters?
Lowe's car?
Blue. This blue.
Jesus.
Would you kids mind telling me how this guy Lowe became a werewolf to begin with?
I don't know. Maybe he doesn't know, either.
Can I tell you kids something?
Sure, Uncle Al.
When me and sissy were kids, we were just like you two.
The moon's not down yet...
Damn near. Now I'll sit up with this stupid gun in my lap because I promised, but you two are going to bed. Go on, now, scoot.
Bill, I'd like you to meet Jack Torrance.
How do you do?
Jack is going to take care of the Overlook for this winter. I would like you to take him around the place as soon as we are through.
Fine.
Jack is a schoolteacher.
What time does the plane leave?
Eight thirty.
Well, that still gives up plenty of time to go over everything first.
Bill, would you have the Torrances' things brought in their apartment.
Fine.
This is our Colorado Lounge.
Oh, it's beautiful. My God, this place is fantastic, isn't it hon?
Yes, I believe they are based mainly on Navajo and Apache motifs.
Oh well they're really gorgeous. As a matter of fact this is probably the most gorgeous hotel I've ever seen.
even before anybody knew what a jet set was. We've had four presidents who stayed here, lots of movie stars.
Royalty?
All the best people.
This is the staff wing of the hotel. None of the other bedrooms are heated during the winter.
Oh!
As a matter of fact we eh... brought a decorator in from Chicago just last year to refurbish this part of the hotel.
Oh well he sure did a beautiful job. Pink and gold are my favorite colors.
Oh...well this is our gold ballroom.
Oh, I'll say.
We can accommodate up to three hundred people here very comfortably.
Boy, I bet you we could really have a good party in this room, huh hon?
Thanks.
Thank you, Susie.
Hi.
Hi.
How're you getting on?
It's amazing how much activity is going on today.
Yes, well the guests and some of the staff left yesterday, but the last day is always very hectic  everybody wants to be on their way as early as possible.
By five o'clock tonight, you'll never know anybody was ever here.
Just like a ghost ship, huh?
Yes.
Mr. Ullman?
Yes?
I'm Jack Torrance.
Oh, well  come on in Jack.
Very nice to meet you.
Nice to meet you, Mr. Ullman.
Have any trouble finding us?
Oh, no problem at all. I made the trip in three and a half hours.
Well, that's very good time, very good. Please sit down a minute.
JAck, just make yourself at home. Would you like some coffee?
Well, if you are going to have some, I wouldn't mind. Thanks.
Susie.
Let's see, where were we? Yes. I was about to explain that eh... our season here runs from oh May 15th to October 30th and then we close down completely until the following May.
Do you mind if I ask why you do that? It seems to me that the skiing up here would be fantastic.
Oh, it sure would be
Only in a very general way.
Well...
...the winters can be fantastically cruel, and the basic idea is to...to cope with the very costly damage and depreciation which can occur. And this consists mainly of running the boiler, heating different parts of the hotel on a daily rotating basis, repairing damage as it occurs and doing repairs, so that the elements can't get a foothold.
Well, that sounds fine to me.
Physically, it's not a very demanding job. The only thing that can get a bit trying up here during the winter is eh... the tremendous sense of isolation.
Well, that just happens to be exactly what I'm looking for. I'm eh... I'm outlining a new writing project, and eh...
five months of peace is just what I want.
That's very good Jack, because eh... for some people eh solitude and isolation...
can of itself be a problem.
Not for me.
How about your wife and son? How do you think they'll take to it?
They'll love it.
Great...
been known to give a few people second thoughts about the job.
I'm intrigued.
I don't suppose they eh told you anything in Denver about the tragedy we had up here during the winter of 1970?
I don't believe they did.
Well, my predecessor in this job
The police eh... they thought that it was what the oldtimers used to call cabinfever, a kind of claustrophobic reaction which can occur when people are
shut in together over long periods of time.
Well, that is eh quite a story.
Well, obviously some people can be
put off by the idea of staying alone in a place where something like that actually happened.
Well, you can rest assured Mr. Ullman, that's not going to happen with me, and eg as far as my wife is concerned, I am sure she'll be absolutely fascinated when I tell her about it. She's a confirmed ghost story and horror film addict.
Good morning Jack. I hope you haven't been waiting too long.
No problem. In fact we had time to grab a bite to eat.
Good. Glad you made it before they shut down the kitchen. Is your family having a look around?
No, my son's discovered the games room.
Oh... Has your luggage been brought in?
Right there.
Oh fine. Well in view of all the ground that we to cover today, I suggest we go and have a quick look at your apartment and then get started straight away.
I'd better collect my family first.
Oh...
Yes, very cosy for a family, and if you feel like spreading out you have the rest of the hotel to move around in.
Well, it's very... homely.
Hi, babe.
Hi, hon. How's it going?
Great. Look, I'm at the hotel and I still have an awful lot to go through. I don't think I can get home before nine or ten.
Boy, we must be really high up. The air feels so different.
Uh...huh.
Sure is.
God, I've never seen anything like this before. Are all of these Indian designs authentic?
Perfect for a child.
Yeah.
Good Morning, hon. Your breakfast is ready.
What time is it?
It's about eleven thirty.
Eleven thirty  Jesus!
I guess we've been staying up too late.
I know it.
I made 'em just the way you like 'em, sunny side up.
Hmm, nice.
It's really pretty outside. How about taking me for a walk after you've finished your breakfast?
Oh I suppose I oughta try to do some writing first.
Any ideas yet?
Lots of ideas. No good ones.
Well, something'll come. It's just a matter of settling back into the habit of writing every day.
Yeah... that's all it is.
It's really nice up here, isn't it?
I love it. I really do. I've never been this happy, or comfortable anywhere.
Yeah. It's amazing how fast you get used to such a big place. I tell you, when we first came up here, I thought it was kinda scarey.
What do you want me to do about it?
Ah, come on hon. Don't be so grouchy.
I'm not being grouchy. I just want to finish my work.
Okay. I understand. I'll come back later on with a couple of sandwiches for you and... maybe you'll let me read something then.
Wendy, let me explain something to you. Whenever you come in here and interrupt me, you're breaking my concentration.
and it will then take me time to get back to where I was, understand?
Yes.
Fine. Now we're going to make a new rule. Whenever I am in here and you hear me typing,
or whether you don't hear me typing, whatever the fuck you hear me doing in here, when I am in here that means that I am working  that means don't come in. Now do you think you can handle that?
Yes.
Fine. Why don't you start right now and get the fuck out of here, hmm?
I had... I had the most terrible nightmare I ever had. It's the most horrible dream I ever had.
It's okay. It's okay, now. Really.
I dreamed that I... that I killed you and Danny.
No. It's the truth, really. I swear it. Danny told me. He went up into one of the bedrooms, the door was open, and he saw this crazy woman in the bathtub. She tried to strangle him.
Which room was it?
Did you find anything?
No, nothing at all.
You went into the room Danny said  to 237?
Yes, I did.
And you didn't see anything at all?
Absolutely nothing. How is he?
He's still asleep.
Good.
Somebody did that to him.
I think he did it to himself.
Get him out of here?
Yes.
You mean just leave the hotel?
Yes.
Shovellings out driveways, work in a car wash  any of that appeal to you?
Jack...
Wendy, I have let you fuck up my life so far, but I'm not going to let you fuck this up!
Jack!
How do you like it?
I...
I can't really remember.
You can't remember.
I don't know.
I don't think that's true. I think you have some very definite ideas about what should be done with Danny... and I'd like to know what they are.
Well I... I think maybe he should be taken to a doctor.
You think maybe he should be taken to a doctor?
Yes...
When do you think maybe he should be taken to a doctor?
As soon as possible.
Jack...
Of course I am.
Of course you are.
Have you ever thought about my responsibilities?
Oh Jack, what are you talking about?
Have you ever had a single moment's thought about my responsibilities? Have you ever thought for a single solitary moment about my responsibilities to my employers?
Stay away from me!
Why?
I just want to go back to my room.
Why?
Don't hurt me! Don't hurt me!
I'm not going to hurt you.
Stay away from me,
Wendy!
Stay away...!
Darling, light of my life, I'm not going to hurt you. You didn't let me finish my sentence. I said 'I'm not going to hurt you... I'm just going to bash your brains in!' I'm going to bash them right the fuck in.
Stay away from me!
I'm not going to hurt you.
Stay away from me!
Stay away from me! Please...
Stop swinging the bat.
Stay away from me.
Put the bat down, Wendy.
Stop it!
Wendy give me the bat.
Stay... stay away!
Give me the bat.
Stay away from me.
Give me the bat.
Jack, stay away from me!
Stop swinging the bat.
Get down.
Give me the bat.
Go away from me.
Wendy...
Go away.
Give me the bat.
Go away.
Give me the bat.
I'll bring back a doctor.
Wendy...
I'm gonna go now.
Wendy...
What'll it be?
Now I'm awfully glad you asked me that, Lloyd, because I just happen to have two twenties and two tens right here in my wallet. I was afraid they were going to be there until next April. So here's what: you slip me a bottle of Bourbon, a glass and some ice. You can do that, can't you, Lloyd? You're not to busy, are you?
How's my credit in this joint anyway?
Your credit's fine, Mr. Torrance.
That's swell. I like you, Lloyd. I always liked you. You were always the best of them.
Best goddamned bartender from Timbuctoo to Portland Maine  Portland Oregon for that matter.
Thank you for saying so.
How are things going, Mr. Torrance?
Things could be better, Lloyd. Things could be a whole lot better.
I hope it's nothing serious.
Nothing that I can't handle though, Lloyd. Thanks.
Women! Can't live with 'em. Can't live without 'em!
Hi Lloyd. I've been away. Now I'm back.
Good evening Mr. Torrance.
It's good to see you.
It's good to be back, Lloyd.
What'll it be, sir?
No charge?
Your money's no good here.
I'm the kind of man likes to know who's buying their drinks, Lloyd.
It's not a matter that concerns you, Mr. Torrance  at least not at this point.
Bill, how do you do?
Pleased to meet you.
Pleasure to meet you.
Eh  formerly a schoolteacher.
What line of work are you in now?
I'm a writer um... Teaching has been more or less a way of making ends meet.
Well this ought to be quite a change for you.
Well, I'm looking for a change.
Glad to meet you, Winifred.
Nice to meet you.
Mrs. Torrance, your husband introduced you as Winifred. Now are you a Winnie or a Freddie?
I'm a Wendy.
Oh Wendy. That's nice. That's the prettiest.
God. This is the kitchen, huh?
Yeah, this is it. How do you like it, Danny? Is it big enough for you?
Don't let it get you down Mrs. Torrance  it's big but it still ain't nothing but a kitchen... a lot of the stuff you'll never have to touch.
I wouldn't know what to do with it if I did.
Well one thing for sure, you don't have to worry about food because you folks could eat up here a whole year and never have the same menu twice.
Beg pardon?
Doc. You called Danny 'Doc' twice just now.
I did?
Yeah. We call him Doc sometimes, you know, like in the Bugs Bunny cartoons. But how did you know that?
Well I guess I probably heard you call him that.
No, we don't mind.
Good.
Sound good to you, Danny?
Oh Dick, come on over and say hello to Mr. and Mrs. Torrance.
Sure.
This is Dick Halloran, our Head Chef.
The Torrances are going to take care of the Overlook for us this winter.
Oh, that's just great. How do you folks like our hotel so far?
Dick, if you're ready to do it now, I think it would be a good idea if you could show Mrs. Torrance the kitchen, while I continue on with Jack.
It will be a pleasure. Right this way Mrs. Torrance.
Dick, can we borrow Mrs. Torrance for a few minutes? We're on our way through to the basement  I promise we won't keep her very long.
No problem, Mr. Ullman. I was just getting to the ice cream.
Good evening. Forest Service.
Hallo. My name's Dick Halloran. I'm the Head Chef up at the Overlook Hotel.
Good evening, Mr. Halloran. What can I do for you?
Sir, I've been trying to make an urgent phone call up there,
I'd be glad to do that, sir. Oh why don't you call me back in about eh twenty minutes?
Thank you very much. I'll do that.
All right, sir.
Good evening. Forest Service.
Hallo, this is Dick Halloran again. I called a while ago about the folks at the Overlook Hotel.
I'm afraid it's advocaat sir. It tends to stain.
Advocaat is it?
Yes sir. Look um... I think the best thing is to come along to the gentlemen's room, sir, and eh...
That doesn't matter, sir. You're the important one.
Awfully nice of you to say. Of course I intend to change my jacket this evening before the fish and goose soiree.
Won't keep you a moment, sir.
Fine.
Grady?
Yes, sir.
Delbert Grady.
That's right, sir.
haven't I seen you somewhere before?
Why no, sir. I don't believe so.
Ah ha, it's coming off now, sir.
Eh... Mr. Grady... weren't you once the caretaker here?
Why no, sir. I don't believe so.
Yes, sir. I have a wife and eh two daughters, sir.
And, er... where are they now?
Oh, they're somewhere around. I'm not quite sure at the moment, sir.
No.
He is, Mr. Torrance.
Who?
A nigger.
A nigger!
A nigger cook.
How?
Your son has a very great talent. I don't think you are aware how great it is, but he is attempting to use that very talent against your will.
Well, he is a very willful boy.
She eh... interferes.
Perhaps they need a good talking to, if you don't mind my saying so. Perhaps a bit more.
It's Grady, Mr. Torrance. Delbert Grady.
Grady... oh.
No need to rub it in, Mr. Grady. I'll deal with that situation as soon as I get out of here.
Will you indeed, Mr. Torrance.
Just give me one more chance to prove it, Mr. Grady. That's all I ask.
Your wife appears to be stronger than we imagined, Mr. Torrance. Somewhat more resourceful, she seems to have got the better of you.
For the moment, Mr. Grady. Only for the moment.
I fear that you will have to deal with this matter in the harshest possible way, Mr. Torrance. I fear that is the only thing to do.
There's nothing I look forward to with the greater pleasure, Mr. Grady.
You give your word on that do you, Mr. Torrance?
Oh I wouldn't think of it.
Well how can I repay you?
It's okay, really.
Well I'm going to have some coffee. Would you like some?
Sure.
Great. Sit down. Oh these marvellous doughnuts, help yourself. Coffee will be ready in a few minutes.
Shall we go into the living room?
Yes.
Please...
Thank you.
Mrs. Torrance, I don't think you have anything to worry about. I'm quite sure there is nothing physically wrong with Danny.
Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah, he seems absolutely fine now, but you should have seen him.
But eh what was the matter with him?
Mrs. Torrance, most of the time these episodes with kids are never explained. They are brought on by emotional factors, and they rarely occur again.
Have you been in Boulder long, Mrs. Torrance?
Only about three months. Eh we're from Vermont. My husband was teaching school there.
Did the appearance of Danny's imaginary friend...?
Tony.
Did Tony's first appearance happen to coincide with your arrival here?
No, um let's see I guess Danny started talkin to Tony about the time we put him into nursery school.
What sort of injury did he have?
Ah he dislocated his shoulder.
How did he manage to do that?
Well it's just one of those things. You know... purely an accident, um. My husband had oh... been drinking, and he came home about three hours late, so he wasn't exactly in the greatest mood that night. And well Danny had scattered some of his school papers all over the room... and my husband grabbed his arm, you know, and pulled him away from them. It's...it's just the sort of thing you do a hundred times with a child  you know, in a park or on the streets  but on this particular occasion my husband just... used too much strength and he injured Danny's arm.
Now Danny, when you were brushing your teeth, do you remember if you smelled anything funny, or saw any bright flashing lights, or anything at all strange?
No.
Do you remember when you were brushing your teeth?
Yes.
What's the next thing you remember after you were brushing your teeth?
Mommy saying, 'Wake up, wake up, wake up Danny, wake up.'
Now Danny, can you remember what you were doing just before you started brushing your teeth?
Talking to Tony.
Is Tony one of your animals?
No. It's the little boy that lives in my mouth.
Oh,
if you were to open your mouth now, could I see Tony?
No.
Why not?
Because he hides.
Where does he go?
To my stomach.
Does Tony ever tell you to do things?
Now I'm going to ask you to do me a favor, and stay quietly in bed for the rest of the day. Okay?
Do I have to?
Yes, I'd like you to.
Yeah.
Do you really want to go and live in that hotel for the winter?
Sure, Danny, it will be lots of fun.
Yeah, I guess so. Anyway, there's hardly anybody to play with around here.
Yeah, I know. It always takes a little time to make new friends.
Yeah, I guess so.
What about Tony? He's looking forward to the hotel, I bet.
We're just going to go into one of the other rooms for a few minutes and talk  then I'll come back and check on you, okay?
Okay.
We'll get something as soon as we get to the hotel, okay?
Okay, Mom.
Hey, wasn't it around here that the Donner party got snowbound?
Jack...
Don't worry, Mom. I know all about cannabilism, I saw it on T.V.
Yeah.
Danny, come on over here.
Yeah.
Okay. You behave yourself.
The loser has to keep American clean, how's that?
All right.
And you're gonna lose. And I'm gonna get you  you betta run fast! Look out  I'm coming in close. All right?
Okay Danny, you win. Let's take the rest of this walking, huh?
Okay...oh!
Give me your hand. Oh, isn't it beautiful.
Yeah.
Oh what a Maze. Isn't it beautiful.
Yeah.
It's so pretty.
Yeah.
I didn't think it was going to be this big, did you?
No.
Mom?
Yes?
Can I go to my room and get my fireengine?
Not right now, Daddy's asleep.
I won't make any noise.
Come on, Doc. He only went to bed a few hours ago. Can't you wait till later?
I won't make a sound, I promise. I'll tiptoe.
Well all right. But really don't make a sound.
I won't, Mom.
Make sure you come right back, 'cause I'm going to make lunch soon. Okay?
Okay, Mom.
If Jack won't come with us, we'll just have to tell him that we are going by ourselves. That's all there is to it.
Red Rum. Red Rum.
Danny?
Red Rum. Red Rum. Red Rum.
Red Rum.
Danny... what's the matter, hon?
Red Rum.
Are you having a bad dream?
Danny. Danny, stop it. Danny!
Red Rum. Red Rum. Red Rum. Red Rum.
Mommy...
Danny, come here!
Mommy... Mommy...!
Danny!
Mommy!
Oh!
Now this is where we keep all of out meat. You got fifteen rib roasts  thirty ten pound bags of hamburgers. You got twelve turkeys, two dozen pork roasts and twenty legs of lamb. Do you like lamb, Doc?
No.
You don't? Well what's your favorite food then?
French Fries and Ketchup.
Do you like ice cream, Doc?
Yeah.
Chocolate.
Chocolate it shall be. Come on son.
Why don't you want to talk about it?
I'm not supposed to.
Who says you ain't supposed to?
Tony.
Who's Tony?
Tony's the little boy who lives in my mouth.
Is Tony the one that tells you things?
Yes.
How does he tell you things?
It's like I go to sleep, and he shows me things but when I wake up, I can't remember everything.
Does your Mum and Dad know about Tony?
Yes.
Do they know he tell you things?
I don't know.
Now think real hard, Doc. Think.
Maybe he showed me something.
Try to think what it was.
No, I'm scared of nothing here. It's just that you know some places are like people, some shine and some don't. I guess you could say the Overlook Hotel here has something about it that's like shining.
Is there something bad here?
Well, you know Doc, when something happens it can leave a trace of itself behind... say like is someone burns toast.
Well, maybe things that happened... leave other kinds of traces behind.
Not things that anyone can notice, but things that people who shine can see. Just like they can see things that haven't happened yet. Well, sometimes they can see things that happened a long time ago... I think a lot of things happened right here in this particular hotel  over the years, and not all of them was good.
What about Room 237?
Room 237?
You're scared of Room 237, ain'tcha?
No I ain't.
Mr. Halloran, what is in Room 237?
Nothing. There ain't nothing in Room 237, but you ain't got no business going in there anyway, so stay out! You understand, stay out!
Dad?
Yes?
I'm hungry.
Well you should have eaten your breakfast.
I think that was farther west in the Sierras.
What was the Donner party?
There were a party of settlers in the covered wagon times. They got snowbound one winter in the mountains. They had to resort to cannabilism in order to stay alive.
You mean they ate each other up?
They had to, in order to survive.
Can I go to my room and get my fireengine?
Come here for a minute, first.
How's it going, Doc?
Okay.
Are you having a good time?
Yes, Dad.
Good. I want you to have a good time.
I am, Dad. Dad?
Yes.
Do you feel bad?
No. I'm just a little tired.
Then why don't you go to sleep?
I can't. I have too much to do.
Dad?
Yes?
Do you like this hotel?
Yes I do. I love it. Don't you?
I guess so.
Good. I want you to like it here. I wish we could stay here for ever, and ever... ever.
Dad?
What?
You wouldn't ever hurt Mummy and me, would you?
What do you mean?
Did your mother ever say that to you  that I would hurt you?
No, Dad.
Are you sure?
Yes, Dad.
I love you, Danny. I love you more than anything else in the whole world, and I'd never do anything to hurt you, never... You know that, don't you, huh?
Yes, Dad.
Good.
I think they're waiting for somebody to start dinner.
Have they sat down?
Everybody but us.
No of course not.
 we're going to be here all night.
Everything okay, son?
Terrific. Now all I have to do is find my car keys.
Call me Les.
Where to, Les?
Oh, say, how would you kids like to stop off for a drink?
Well we'd love to, but we're going to another party.
Well... that's wonderful  I'll stop by there for a drink.
You seem disappointed.
No... how long did you say?
Three weeks.
Look, is there somewhere else you'd rather go? Maybe we can change our location.
No, it's not that...
Do you have children?
No.
Are you married?
No.
Do you have something against traveling?
No.
No!
John...
We'll let you know tomorrow.
Please don't misunderstand... I'd really like to go.
Thanks for coming by.
 what's the problem, honey?
 his car. They have it blocked.
Oh that's no problem.  take care of this boy's problem, will you, Gene?
 listen, I wonder if you kids could give me a ride? I'm kind of stranded here.
Sure thing, Mr. Karpf. C'mon.
 I'll get in the back 
 oh no, honey, I'll do that...
 there's not much room 
That's fine 
What did you say your name was, sweetheart?
Jill.
Jill.
 yes, Jill.
Gee... that's wonderful, Jill.
Thank you.
 just wonderful.
Egypt?
That's right.
But why Egypt?
Well, that's where the pyramids are and we want real pyramids in the ad.
Go ahead, Jill, you can say it.
Now I'm embarrassed to tell you.
Oh. thank you.
Sure.
Why don't you ask for another one?
Are you kidding? His hair's probably the most nutritious thing in here. See, you've reduced me to eating weeds.
... my friend doesn't like it here either.
All right, forget this filth. Continue about your friend.
Well he's not exactly a friend.
Is he an enemy?
Of course not... he's sort of a boyfriend.
 sort of a boyfriend?
Sort of.
I see. You mean he just sort of fucks you.
Johnny!
My God, did I say that? I don't believe it.
I'm terribly sorry.
 never mind.
What does he do? Is he an actor?
 no.
Good for you.
He's a hairdresser.
 oh, sure. A hairdresser. How... how do you a... meet a hairdresser?
Getting your hair done... Would you like to go to a party?
Not with your hairdresser.
This other couple that we're here with, do you know them very well?
Well... sure...
Then maybe you can tell me why George would be going into the ladies room.
George? Was he alone?
I don't think so.
Well did he go in there with Jackie?
That bastard.
George is a hairdresser, isn't he?
 Jackie really shouldn't drink 
 oh I don't know 
Well  as I see it we've got two choices. We can hang around here and wait for the bomb to go off, or we can go to my party.
Let's do that.
 why?
 these bastards have me hemmed in.
Oh, Johnny, Mr. Karpf needed a ride home and I said we'd take him. Do you mind?
Of course not.
 so when are you going to Egypt?
You mean when are you going to Egypt?
Now I didn't mean that, you rat.
Two weeks from tomorrow.
You're going?
You're going.
You're kidding.
Those Arabs won't be when they start chasing you around the sand dunes.
Johnny! Why didn't you tell me before?
 just before I ask you out? I can't do that. Let's get out of here before good old Les catches up with us again.
What's wrong?
We can't really leave that poor man here alone.
 he'll never know the difference.
 still  at least we should tell him we're going. C'mon.
I'm telling you he won't know the difference.
I think you're crazy. Don't look over, it's Lenny Silverman.
Who is that?
A real swinger. He's been trying to fuck me for about two hundred years.
I am? I mean why?
Oh, honey, don't be totally naive.
I'm not. Maybe I am.
No, listen. He's a very good hairdresser.
Well, he is.
So what's your point?
Jill, I'm just trying to be helpful.
I know, I'm sorry.
I spent three years with him. I just couldn't take it not knowing who was gonna pay the rent... his unemployment or mine. George was adorable but it drove me crackers. Now at least I'm comfortable. Lester does what he says he'll do. Maybe you're happy living like a gypsy. Are you?
George is great but I know what you mean.
Face it, you can go around with cute guys and get hung up on their sexy bodies and things like that but sooner or later you've got to find somebody. Face it, time isn't on your side.
I guess not.
Jill, you're a real sweetie pie. You really are. You're sure you don't mind?
Don't be silly.
You're really a love  you sure?
 No. No really.
Well, what is it, honey?
Nothing.
It must be something.
Well, it's George.
I thought you said things were great with George.
Well they are. But we have problems. You say things are great with Lester. Is he going to marry you?
We don't think marriage is important.
But you have problems?
 Yeah, honey...
I don't know. One minute he's up in the air and makes love to me five times a day and tells me everything's going to be great and he's getting his own shop and then suddenly he disappears and he won't even talk to me. It's driving me crazy.
Five times a day?
 I guess it's all got to do with this shop.
Really, Jill, aren't you exaggerating just a little? Five times a day?
Well, you know what I mean.
After four years? No I don't... and I don't know too many girls who do.
I'm exaggerating.
How much?
Jackie 
What?
Well... it's not so much the number of times he does it, it's... he does it for a long time.
He does?
Well yes  you know that about George.
It's been so long I don't how long?
Quite a while... an hour, an hour and a half  sometimes fortyfive minutes  that's quite a while, isn't It?
I would say so, yes.
Honey?
What?
I think you're going to hit that car in front of us.
 See, I just know that if I go to Egypt, well, things happen, I just don't know what'll happen to us, he just never seems to think ahead, does he?
 When you say fortyfive minutes or an hour, do you mean continuous time? Just continually, without stopping?
 Well  not going in and out, I don't mean just that. Why are you asking me? You went with George longer than I have.
 I guess I just blocked it out, that's all.
C'mon.
Well, there was this one time 
 Yesss?
 I was in the kitchen doing the dishes and George was out in Long Beach doing a show...
 uhhhuhh...
 Well it was very hot so I'd left the door open and the water was running so I didn't hear him come down the stairs...
... Mmmhmmm.
 He came up behind me and I was wiping a dish and he just... lifted up my skirt, and, you know, right there...
Didn't you have any panties on?
 He reached up and tore them.
What did you do?
Well... I just kept wiping that dish. Maybe it doesn't sound very sexy but it was.
No, it sounds very sexy  did you just stay by the sink all that time?
No, he picked me up and carried me out to the sundeck  God, it was hot. The wood on the sundeck, everything.
Hi, Leonard.
Jackie, what're you doing?
Going for a pony ride at Kiddielands, want to come along?
I have to meet a client... who're you dating?
PosterKleiser.
Oh yeah?
That's right.
I'll call you.
Fine.
See you later.
Anyway, you're crazy.
The man from Sloan's is coming. I called you about it.
How did you lose that key? Oh, George, this is uh Miss  this is Jackie.
Oh, hi, I mean hello, we've met.
Is that right?
Well, yes, George is a wonderful hairdresser.
Is that right?
I go to the blue'n gold barber shop in Westwood. The guy in the third chair's dynamite... nobody much.
George is going to open a shop.
No kidding? Your own shop?
I called to tell you I was sending one over but the line was busy, you're always on the phone.
I am?
Who were you talking to?
Who do you think I was talking to?
My secretary saw you with that boy.
Steve?
Whatever his name is, that actor.
Steve Slutes, and he's not a boy. Steve couldn't get arrested as an actor. He couldn't get arrested as a boy.
Then you were talking to him.
I ran into him at the 76 station on little Santa Monica, what was I supposed to do, hide in the ladies room? Yes, I was talking to him.
I'm always on the phone because you never let me see anybody, I can't even bring my girlfriends over to the house because they might run into you. You're driving me up the wall, Lester. You're even jealous of the dogs. I mean I've gotta have somebody I can talk to.
I'm not jealous of the dogs.
Now listen, Jackie, I'm not jealous of anybody, I just can't afford to get caught... off base.
So I can't talk to some broken down actor, what do you think, I'm going to tell him I'm screwing Lester Karpf!
Of course not.
That's not very logical, Lester.
It's very logical, it's the most logical thing in the world. You wouldn't feel this confined if we could go out with people and have dinner, and a little conversation and so forth...
Really? How about starting with tonight?
You and your touchy investors.
Look... you do well for people, they don't ask you to stop. Nobody wants you to stop making money, doll, not even Uncle Sam. They all want their share.
You're lying about one thing, Lester.
What's that?
You're still jealous.
Maybe he ought to go to beauty school. Anyway, see you tonight, doll, okay?
Fine.
Shut the door, shut the door!
Oh, I'm sorry.
I'd like a drink.
Just a second, I've gotta clean this mess up or the dogs'll have it all over the house.
You ought to get rid of those dogs.
They get hair all over the place.
They're Yorkies and they don't shed.
Here.
Aren't you going to have one?
No.
Why not?
Because I don't want one.
George, glad you could make it, son. Hi, doll.
Lester, this is my friend Jill and this is Johnny Pope.
Glad to meet you, Jill, Mr. Pope.
Who are they?
Jill Haynes, Jill Haynes, I've told you about Jill a hundred times, Lester, you never remember anything I say.
Does she know about us?
Jesus, she's my best friend.
Who's the guy, George's boyfriend?
I don't know. Why don't you ask him?
C'mon, Jackie, I'm only trying  George 
Hi, doll, what's wrong?
You know what's wrong.
Jackie Shawn.
Yes, Jackie Shawn, my wi  Felicia.
 you phony asshole 
Oh, dear that's too bad.  get her out of here, get her out of here.
Well maybe I can get you something.
That's very sweet of you, Mr. Roth.
Sid.
Sid. You must be a very important executive.
Well, whatever I am, I think I can get you whatever you'd like.
You do?
Yes.
 well, more than anything else   I'd like to suck his cock.
Well, commercials. I read for a soap the other day.
A soap?
A daytime soap opera.
And?
I was too old.
What was it, somebody's daughter?
Somebody's mother.
You're home.
Yeah.
I'm coming over.
I'll call you back.
No you won't.
What do you mean?
I told you I get 'scared up here, so if you're not coming right now... I'm not kidding.
Okay.
JILL'S VOICE +++$+++
Yeah, yeah  'bye.
What took you so long?
Wasn't sure it was you.
TINA'S VOICE +++$+++
I... uh... I... uh... can't.
All right, who're you with? Jill?
No.
TINA'S VOICE +++$+++
No.
Awww 
I'll call you back.
Come on by.
I'll call you back...
TINA'S VOICE +++$+++
Okay, okay...
Felicia says you're a very good hairdresser.
Well, yeah.
She says you're a fabulous hairdresser.
Thank you.
I didn't say it, she did. How'd you happen to get in that line of work?
Oh, well, I went to beauty school... you know you go to beauty school... and you get your operator's license... and you graduate... and you're a hairdresser.
I see.
It's an unusual trade.
Yes it is.
But the important thing is you're successful at it.
In a way. But...
But what?
I'm better than the guy I work for.
Well, George, I invest for a lot of people. I make a lot of money for them. More than they could do for themselves.
After a while that hurts... doesn't it?
It's good you want to do something, George.
Thank you.
But personal services are not the kind of thing I usually get into.
They're not?
No, they're a pain in the ass, there's no way of keeping track of anything. It's a cash business and you've got to watch your operators or they'll steal you blind, am I right or am I right?
You're right.
Who needs that kind of aggravation? Who needs that kind of aggravation at my age? When I finish work I want to...
George, could you  excuse us for a minute?
Sure.
Felicia's really interested in the shop, isn't she?
Oh yeah.
Well, George, you may not think ten or fifteen grand means much to me, but I invest for myself and a lot of particular people.
Oh yeah? I mean I know.
So I'm going to want a little more of your thinking on the subject.
When?
When?
Tonight?
Yeah, little election party I'm giving at the Bistro. It's a pain in the ass but  I have to do it. We'll have a little time to talk there.
 maybe you could, on your way, you know, pick up Jackie here.
Okay.
I wish my son knew what he wanted to do.
Oh yeah?
 Anything, I don't care what it is, just so it's something.
I know what you mean.
Sorry, honey, I...
That's okay, that's okay, just shut the door.
... she's very upset...
What about, tonight?
That, and... I'll be done in a minute.
You look like you've had quite a workout.
It's nerve wracking sometimes... women can get you very upset.
I know it, I know it.
... this doing hair it's...
I know it, son. But tonight's going to be even tougher.
George, I know you have to deal with Felicia and you're caught in the middle, and if you can just bear with me tonight, well, I appreciate the way you've handled the situation.
Oh, hey...
It's a difficult situation, and I want you to know I appreciate it. Tonight's going to be real tough for me 
I don't know what to...
Son, we'll do business, I can tell you that.
 do me a favor, kind of keep your eye on Jackie, she's a little high strung tonight 
 yeah?
See she doesn't drink too much.
Well anyway...
Your hair looks  well fabulous.
Well  I could try. Do you wash your hair every day?
Isn't that bad for it?
No it keeps the skin peeling. You've got to keep the follicles open. You lose hair and the skin grows over the follicle and that's how you lose it.
This really ought to be layered...
Layered?
Well yeah, otherwise it just sort, you know, lies there  layer so it kind of fluffs out 
You live like a pig.
Yeah. How long have you been here?
All night.
Well... who are those guys?
What do they look like?...
Look, Lester... are you unhappy with me about something?
Yeah, I'm unhappy with you about something.
Well, what?
Godammit, George...
Now wait a minute...
Sit down.
But...
I said sit down!
I wanna hear about it.
Oh Jesus Christ.
I wanna hear about it, George.
Hey, have 'em put me away, or whatever you're gonna do, okay?... I'm too tired to lie, I'm too tired to tell the truth... I'm too tired for anything.
I wanna hear about it.
What can I say!
I wanna know your thinking, I wanna know how someone like you thinks. Did you think you could get away with it, did you think you could put something over on me? Does a guy like you get his kicks sneaking around behind people's backs and taking advantage of them? Maybe that's your idea of being anti Establishment!
I'm not antiEstablishment.
That's got nothing to do with it... You're so beyond my comprehension I can't even discuss it with you.
Then don't... just have 'em beat me up or whatever you're gonna do.
No, not yet, not yet. You worry about it for a while, I've been worrying all night, now you can worry.
Was it me, did you have something against me?
What, do you think I planned it?
Did they have something against me?
Didn't they tell you?
I wanna hear it from you!
... how am I gonna tell you what they have against you? I mean Jesus fucking Christ, they're women, aren't they? Have you ever listened to women talk, man? Have you? Well I do, I do 'til it's fucking coming out of my ears. I'm on my feet all day, every fucking day, listening to women talk and you know what they talk about, don't you? Being fucked up by some guy. That's all that's on their minds. I'm sure you've done something they could get pissed off about, what's that got to do with it? All women are pissed off, man, all of 'em. They fucking hate us! Don't you know that?
... yes, I follow your thinking on that.
We're always trying to fuck them... they know it and they like it and they don't like it... that's just how it is... look, it's got nothing to do with you, man. It just happened. Felicia's got nothing to do but shop and get her hair done and she knows she's getting older... her daughter hates her, what's she going to do, go to PTA meetings?
Do you think Lorna hates her? I don't think she hates her. I mean she may resent her a little...
Oh, are you kidding, man? She hates her.
Why, why do you think that is?
Oh, fuck, Lester, how should I know?
Well, I don't know.
Want a drink?
No thanks.
Have a drink.
Okay, thanks.
You don't have a clean glass in the house.
I know.
I'll have to wash one out.
Hell of a way to treat a business partner, that's all I can say.
Who?
Me!
Hey, you were never going to give me the money.
I was gonna give you the money. Probably I was. Shit, I don't know, I don't know anything anymore.
... You can lose it all; you can lose it all no matter who you are... I don't know, what's the point of having it all. Look at me. I don't have a goddam thing... the market's terrible right now, went down ten points last week, goddam Lyndon Johnson!
Oh yeah...
Yeah,, it goes up a little and then it goes down, maybe Nixon will do something. What's the difference, they're all a bunch of jerks. I wouldn't let 'em run my business, I can tell you that much. Not if I had any choice in the matter. I don't know what to do with you. I don't know, I don't know what's right or wrong anymore.
I don't either, Lester, I swear to you I don't.
What about Jackie?
What about her?
I mean, how did that happen?
Lester, it just happened.
She's nothing but a whore.
No 
Just a whore, I go over there, have a few drinks and get my gun off. I'm through with her, she's nothing but a whore.
No, man, no. You can say everybody's a whore. She's okay. I mean Jackie'll fuck around but not that much. Somewhere she really likes you, Lester, and it's not just the bread. She's okay.
You really think so?
Yes I do.
I'm finished with her.
Oh, by the way, I think you oughta know  Lorna thinks she's got the clap.
What?
Yeah, the clap. That's what she thinks. But who knows  I don't know.
What're you here for?
 A wash and set.
No.
No?
You need a cut.
But Mr. Norman said 
Said what!
I just needed a wash and set, a wash and set, that's all.
Well, baby, I'm George and it needs to be cut. But I don't want to place you in that position either.
There were some shots.
What're you talking about?
Gunshots, there were some gunshots.
Where?
Here in the canyon.
Well, it's a big canyon. Honey, I'm sorry but I've gotta get back... just for a minute.
Let me come, too. Please don't leave me alone.
What's gonna happen?
I don't know... every once in a while I just get the feeling something awful's going to happen.
Well, like what?
I don't know... just... somebody's going to get me.
I've had these dumb dreams lately.
What?
They're dumb, somebody... I don't know...
Who?
I just... who what?
You said somebody... who?
I don't know. I can't remember. It was just in my dream.
No shit?
Nobody's gonna get you. Now get inside.
George, I don't 
You'll do what I tell you. Now get the fuck inside.
George 
Keep moving 
Now, George 
Nobody's gonna get you but me!
How are you, baby?
Fine. How are you?
Great, great, fantastic. Fantastic. Incredible. Incredible, really incredible.
What?
I'm gonna open the shop, baby, I'm gonna open the shop. I'm getting it together.
How?
Right now  I'm at the epitome of my life. Right now I feel so good I'm afraid something's gonna happen.
When I was a little kid, I used to want to go to Europe but right now wherever I am I'm gonna be in Europe.
Honey, what happened?
I just came from a meeting... I can't talk about it now, baby. But in a few days  see I'm disgusted with my life.
I thought you said you were at the epitome of your life.
I am, I am. But I've had it with chicks. They're like an occupational hazard. Six guys working for me... I'm gonna retire or settle down or something.
What about me?
You're different.
I am?
You're great.
I am?
Yeah.
Do you really mean that?
Hey, baby  I'm gonna retire with you.
Honey?
Yeah, baby.
Why am I great?
Will we live together?
We live together now.
But in the same house, you know, one house.
 Sure.
Maybe you don't even like children.
Of course I like children.
You've never even been around one.
I'm around you and I like you, don't I?
Yeah.
Okay... Night, baby.
George?
What!
Not right now, I don't mean right now... but eventually...
Okay, baby. Okay...
Jackie says she wouldn't bring children into this world. That it's hypocritical and overpopulated.
George.
Hey, baby, what's happening?
They want me to go to Egypt for three weeks.
Great.
Jill, say hello to Felicia.
Hello.
Yeah, baby...
How did it go at the bank?
Great.
Could I talk to you for a second?
Hey, I'm, you know 
Could I?
Yeah.
I said I wasn't sure if I could go.
Go where?
Egypt!
Oh, great, listen, baby, I gotta get back, okay?
Okay, but how did it go at the bank?
Great... can we talk later?
George.
Hey, baby, say hello to Felicia.
I already said hello.
Okay.
George.
Yeah, baby.
When can I talk to you?
Baby, I'm in the middle of work.
I know but this is important. I have to make a decision.
About what?
Whether or not I'm going.
Going where?
Egypt.
Honey, have they offered you the job?
No, but I think they might.
Just a second, I'll be right with you...
What do you want?
Your advice!
They didn't offer you the job yet.
I want your feelings about it.
Right now?
Look, either we have a meaningful relationship or we don't, I've got to know.
Look, baby, can we talk about it later?
When?
When I get off work.
When is that?
I'll call you.
When is that, George?
I'll call you.
But I never know when you're working and when you're not working!
Neither do I, baby.
What?
Nothing, I'll call you, okay?
... Okay...
Jill says nothing.
Where's your car?
A friend dropped me off.
Who?
Never mind. Where've you been?
A business meeting, I told you that.
What business meeting?
Look at the way I live.
I've been trying to reach you all afternoon. You weren't in the shop. What is this thing tonight?
What do you mean, what is it? It's some political bullshit.
I have to have Jackie ask me? Don't you think you could call me and let me know? Look at my hair.
Wait a minute, Goddamnit. Do you think I want to go to some God damned party? I'm trying to get that God damned shop open. I'm trying to get a little bread together. That's all I'm doing.
I know, honey.
Maybe I should get a dog... no, it would just shit all over the house and I'd never clean it up.
Oh, honey. If we had one place, we could have a nicer place and I could take care of it. We're almost never here.
What does he direct besides traffic?
Ha, ha.
Television or movies?
Commercials.
Now, Jackie 
 she's a very compulsive girl.
I've got to get her out of here.
 go ahead.
 well aren't you 
 what?  I'll see you later...
 okay   I'll see you later. Your house.
I don't want to fight, George.
I don't want to fight either. Look... uh  I love you.
Bullshit.
I do, Jill.
How come you took your own car?
I didn't want him meeting me here.
Well that's something.
What is.
You didn't plan on fucking him tonight.
You did fuck him, didn't you?
I'm very tired, George.
Didn't you, baby?
Let go of me.
Let go of me or I'll scream, I'll call the police.
Oh, Christ.
That was him.
Yes.
You told him I was here and he wanted to know if I was beating you up.
Yes.
Well, did you get a job out of it at least?
I'd like you to leave now.
 and take this with you.
Where did this come from?
Who knows, I'm sure you don't  but if it'll help any, I found it in your bed.
So who else was there besides Jackie? Huh?... huh?
Baby, don't do this. I do love you.
Obviously there were others, weren't there?
Obviously.
How many?
What do you wanna know for?
I just want to know, that's all.
What difference does it make?
I just want to know while we were seeing each other... I just don't want girls looking at me and knowing and me not knowing...
Baby, please don't... I love you.
I don't want to be a fool!... I want to look them in the eye and say, I know!
Baby, don't do this 
 it'll help me if you'll tell me.
 please, baby 
 no, it'll help me, really 
How?
I'll know you've lied to me... all along. I'll know you're incapable of... love... that'll help me... not now, but eventually.
... well I'm glad you told me.
Jesus.
What? What? What? What? What?
... honest. At least you're honest with me.
Does it make you happy?
I wish you'd go now.
That's all you've got to say?
 yes.
 tell me something  did you talk about me?
George...
Did you?
Please!... that's not like you.
Yeah, I know. Did you?
George, now cut this out.
Did you?
Stop it.
Did you?
Yes, yes, I did.
What did you say?
George, if you keep this up I'm going to scream.
What did you say?
George...
What did you say?
I said you were a loser!
Nothing, my sister's back from Vegas.
That's too bad.
I have to see you.
Hey, stop by the shop.
Hi, George.
Hey, baby, what's happening?
Nothing, I reconciled with Ron, you know, the guy I divorced last summer.
Great, great. I hope you make it.
Call me!
I don't have your number, stop by the shop.
Okay!
Jackie Shawn.
 yeah, this is 
 yes, George.
I guess you haven't heard from her yet.
Not yet.
Okay... thanks...
Yeah!
Wash her.
What with?
 A brillo pad, I don't care, anything.
 You takin' a lot of shit lately, George.
 Oh yeah.
But then again you ask for it  you just like my Otis  can't keep his hands outta ladies' hair either.
 White ladies?
 Oh my yes.
That boy always does great. He's a corporal or a squad leader or something, just wrote me from some place called Kwang Due?
I don't know if you don't know 
What's wrong, Mary, are you drunk? Look, I've had a rough night, one of the roughest I've ever had, now I'm not in the mood for any sulking bullshit, what's wrong? Are you sick? Are you drunk? Can you work?
Otis is dead.
 Otis?
 you shouldn't talk to me like that no matter what, George... you know better...
 oh  sweetheart...
 you shouldn't do me like that...
 please, please forgive me...
 you know better...
 why did you come in today?
 left my bag, didn't have no money...
 how did you get here?
 took a bus.
 c'mon, I'll get you home...
Do you know what that Lillian Bercovici just did?
No, man.
 Right after I sprayed her?
What?
She touched it! Then she played in it and got it all into something else. Now I don't know what it is!
I can't even stand to talk to her on the phone.
She's heavy. See, Norman expects me to get in here, take care of all the customers and then do his show out in Norwalk. I gotta have my own shop, just out of self defense.
Hey, what's happening? Mary! Telephone. What's the matter?
Wanda...
Oh yeah?
You were supposed to handle that bitch, she's always asking for you, and she was furious you weren't here.
Yeah?...
She's murdered her hair... you do something with her, I'm never going to touch her again.
I'm busy, man.
If I have to touch her again, I'll throw up!
Don't talk like a child. You're a pro, now get out there and cut!
So how's Norman?
Great. Who's been doing your hair?
Jesus...
 Yeah... your car down here?
 Listen, I'm supposed to take Jill to El Cholo tonight. She's really going to be pissed if I don't.
 Maybe she'll come with us. If I tell her how important it is to me, I don't think she'll mind. Do you?
I don't know. Probably not.
Jill's really great, isn't she?
Great... so how's everything with you?
How long you had this?
Oh, about six weeks now... Lester  well, he's very sweet.
I'm sure.
He's a very private person, actually.
Yeah  he doesn't happen to know that we went together, does he?
 Well no. It never came up.
You going to tell him?
 What for? Honey, I'll see you later.
Shut up, it's all right. Do you want a drink?
No, thanks.
Well, I do.
Where do you want to do this?
Probably the bathroom.
Can't you do it out here?
Well, what do you think?
I'd cut it...
You would?
Yeah, I think so...
You don't seem very sure.
No, I'm sure.
Okay... but I want you to know one thing. I've got to look great tonight, I mean I have to look great, okay?
Okay.
Jill's coming with us.
Great.
She's incredible... She loves you, George.
Yeah... I mean great.
... I don't get it done often.
Whew.
What's wrong?
It's hot in here.
It's the sauna, I keep the sauna on and it makes the whole bathroom hot.
Yeah... wow.
Not too much, don't cut too much.
Jackie, would you argue with your doctor.
The shrink? Many times.
Bernstein... seemed to think I hated men.
Do you? You still see him?
No.
Why not?
Why not?
... he tried to... uh... make it with me.
And?
And what?
Did you?
It was after you, baby. After you.
Boy, that sauna is really... can't you turn it down or something?
No... Lester likes it on all the time in case he wants to use it.
Anyway, he offered me a silver cloud. At least he should give me a Ferrari and pay off my house and give me a nine carat ring or something...
Did Lester know about him?
There was nothing to know. Anyway... if I can't have love I have to at least have money. I have to have some pride I can do something.
George...
I just have to do one little thing.
If you screw me up for tonight, I'll kill you, I swear to God, I'll kill you.
I won't screw you up.
George... how about Felicia?
What?
Did you?
Did I what?
You know what I'm talking about.
Hey, I don't tell.
Can I count on that? I just want to see Lester with me and that cunt in the same room tonight.
Yeah?
Well, did you or didn't you?
Now, baby... if I told you about her... then you couldn't count on me not telling anymore... could you?
You did, didn't you?
Baby...
You did, I know you did.
One of my few virtues is discretion.
You just can't stand to miss one of them, can you?
George...
Yeah, baby...
You're a genius.
No! Don't! Please!
I don't want to... I swear...
It'll ruin everything.
I know... you don't know, I know.
Don't, don't, don't...
Sit down.
What are you talking about?
Sit down!
Look, either come in or stay out!
Shut the door, Lester. What do you think this is, a picnic?
 you'll be the prettiest thing in the room  light's green...
 oh yeah... what do you know about this guy?
 what guy?
 this guy with Jill.
He's a director.
Jesus Christ, there's Norma Stern. Look at her hair.
What about it?
Looks like somebody took a dump in it, that's the worst color job I've 
We're upstairs, George. Now come on. Behave yourself, and for Christ's sake, do me a favor. Don't let me drink too much.
You don't do that anymore, do you?
Don't do it.
That son of a bitch, everything he says is a phony piece of shit, what does he think, I'm some cigar butt he's got between his teeth 
C'mon, cunt, you're going for a walk.
He just completely ignores me. He could have at least said something, introduced me or something.
Sweetheart, you're drunk.
 Just get me out of here, baby. I can't stand it. It's killing me.
 we can't now.
 why not? C'mon, take me out of here, somewhere I don't have to lie to anybody and I'll fuck your brains out, you little fiend, I adore you 
 don't you want to 
Jackie, can we 
Who's the greatest cocksucker in the world? C'mon 
 you are.
Fuckin' A 
 gee...
 what?
I don't know what gets into me.
You were great.
No, I blew it, I blew it with Lester.
No you didn't.
You don't think so? I do.
You were great.
You always say that... I really care for Lester, don't I?
That sounds like me.
I am you, you little bastard.
Where do you want to go?
Sammy's?
He still having parties?
He never stopped.
What are you looking at?
The lawn  it looks like it goes on forever, doesn't it?
 yeah.
 look, you don't have to entertain me...
Am I entertaining you?
We're friends.
 sure.
 well, if you feel like playing, go play...
 where'd you go?
 oh I thought you were 
 what?
Nothing.
 very nice, very nice.
 mmm 
 but you never were much of a tit man 
Mmmm 
 ass and legs 
Look who's talking.
Me?
 yes, you 
Well of course. Who loves a big fanny on a man?
Not me, pal.
What's wrong?
 do you want ice?
 we're kidding ourselves.
 we are?
 last night I dreamt I was fifty years old and Mary told me I was supposed to meet Jill at the shop. It seared me shitless.
Why?
I can't imagine being with Jill when she's fifty years old. I can't imagine not being with you.
 Jesus 
 well you better go after her.
 good afternoon 
 you've got to leave.
I've got to leave?
 yes, honey, you've got to get out of here.
Why?
Lester's on his way.
Where are you going?
Please, we'll have to talk later 
Look about last night 
Forget about last night, it's okay, we'll talk when I get back 
It's not okay, I mean we've got to talk now. Where are you going?
Look  either you leave or I leave because I don't want the two of us here when Lester arrives. I just don't 
 It's Malone's.
That's it, then I'm leaving.
You're going to kill me.
No 
Well then what are you trying to do
I want to marry you. I want to take care of you and I want your children, and I want you to be my girl. That's all I want. That's all I want out of my life, and it's a lot.
Jackie... Jackie?... answer me, for God's sake, answer me.
If you knew how many times I wanted to hear you say that...
So I'm saying it...
It's too late...
What's too late about it? Look, we're not dead, are we? That's the only thing that's too late.
Lester's left Felicia. He's taking me to Acapulco on the five o'clock flight. He's asked me to marry him.
So what? You don't love him, do you? Answer me.
What's that supposed to mean?
I don't know... Jackie?
What?
God, there's Lester...
Don't go, Jackie...
I can't just let him stand by the door...
Don't leave me...
I've got to... I've got to tell him where I am.
What for?
I don't know  I've got to.
George!
Yeah.
You're late, we're all backed up and you're supposed to go to Buffums.
Buffums?
Yes, Buffums.
I've got heads here, Norman.
You promised you'd do the show.
Oh fuck, Norman!
Don't use that tone of voice with me... never mind, I'll take Gordon.
You're late, George.
Devra, try Jackie Shawn will you? And if you don't reach her, keep trying.
What!
Somebody's going to have to wash Mrs. Young. Mary's not here.
You do it.
Look, Norman, I'm not the shampoo girl.
You are today.
Oh yes. Mrs. Shumann called about you.
Right.
How is she?
Great.
Wonderful woman.
She is.
I went to school with her husband.
Great.
So you want to go in business for yourself?
Right.
And you need money?
Right, that's right.
You do know what money's like these days.
Well, yeah... you know.
Jesus, look at this. Nine, nine and three quarters  that's our prime rate. And I'll tell you something else: the big boys are going for it.
They are?
After all, Mr. Roundy, we're paying six percent. Six percent. FHA's at eight and a half  no, we won't be going back to the old days.
I guess not...
It's got nothing to do with inflation. Rates, for example, rise independently of tight money if you look at interest curves carefully. Historically, that's always been true, though most people don't realize it.
What sort of references do you have?
Well, I do Barbara Rush.
Pardon me?
Her hair, I do Barbara Rush.
I mean credit references, Mr. Roundy.
I've got the customers... that's my point. I'm the one they want. If I had my own shop, they'd leave and come to me. I have a lot of customers.
Look, Mr. Roundy, why don't you make out a financial statement? It'll save us both some time. Miss Michaels here can show you... have it notarized and we'll see where we go from there. Miss Michaels, would you get me a couple of forms?
You here to see my mother?
Yeah.
She's out, but you're supposed to wait.
Hungry?
A little.
This is the one thing I like about this house... want some lox?
No thanks.
You're my mother's hairdresser?
I do her hair, yeah.
Chopped liver?
No thanks.
Are you gay?... baked apple?... they're cold but they're good.
No thanks.
Did you hear me?
Yeah.
Well, are you? Are you queer?
... yeah.
C'mon, are you or aren't you?
Gee, this is great.
C'mon, tell me. Don't be afraid.
Why do you wanna know so bad?
See if you've been making it with my mother.
What would my being a faggot have to do with that?
Nothing, I guess... have you ever made it with a guy?
Have you ever made it with a girl?
I asked you first.
Yeah... I've made it with a girl...
Well, are you?
Am I what?
Making it with my mother?
I'd like to do your hair sometime.
Why?
... just, you could look very heavy...
Don't make conversation with me.
What?
You don't have to make conversation with me, I'm not my mother... do you have a thing about older women... that's sort of faggoty isn't it?
Yeah, it is.
I never get my hair done.
No kidding.
In fact, I don't think I've ever been to a beauty parlor in my whole life.
No shit.
You think that's funny, don't you?
Yeah.
You live a phony cheap copout existence.
Yeah...
Beverly Hills hairdresser... what kind of a thing is that to do... you might as well be a faggot... think that's funny too?
No.
Then what do you think?
That you're just like your mother.
I am not like my mother!
You are.
I am not!
You are.
I am not!
Look... Do you wanna fuck me?
Yeah.
Right now?
Yeah.
Oh, no.
... what?...
That headboard.
Nobody can hear it.
You going to answer it?
Uhuh.
Want me to?
Let it ring.
You're rude. I mean, you're very rude.
Hey, I tried to get her off the phone.
You know what I'm talking about.
No, baby. Now look, that girl that called  I have to talk to her, she'll do something.
Like what?
I don't know, kill herself. She's O.D.'d four times.
Well, is she your girlfriend?
No.
Are you in love with her?
Her?
Are you?
No.
Then it's not your problem.
It isn't?
No. You know too many sick ladies.
I guess so.
How do you expect to get anything done if you allow yourself to get sidetracked? Particularly in your business... you deal with women every day...
I guess so.
Don't worry, honey, I'll protect you.
Okay.
God, I adore you.
Shit.
Hello.
Whoever she is, she doesn't give up, does she?
No.
What're you looking for?
My keys.
I thought you said you weren't going anywhere.
I'm not. I mean I've gotta see this friend of mine for a few minutes.
You mean that girl, don't you?
Thanks a lot.
Listen, baby, don't leave, really.
Why not?
I'll be right back, it's just that this girl is a different girl... she has attacks.
What?
These attacks... it's got something to do with her... uh... pancreas.
She's got a...
Does she have a pancreatic ulcer?
Yeah, I think so.
That's very serious. Who's her doctor?
I don't know.
Gee, that's very serious...
I know.
Ruth Lesserman had a pancreatic ulcer.
She did?
It turned out to be cancer.
Wow.
So what are you doing going over there? You're not her doctor.
I've gotta give her some pills. Percodan, she ran out.
And listen, I'll be right back and I want your ass in that bed when I get back.
You're very rude... if you don't come back 
I'll be back in a while.
I don't want to see you anymore.
I'll be right back, baby, really.
You're late, George.
I gotta talk to you.
I don't want to talk about it...
But you don't know what happened.
I don't care.
I don't care about that girl, I don't care if she's dead.
Calm down, baby.
I'm perfectly calm, George, I'm simply saying you have no respect for me, that you're incapable of distinguishing between me and one of your average Hollywood... mummers...
 What?
Nummers.
What?
 Numbers, and I don't need to place myself in that kind of position.
 I like myself far too much, far too much.
I don't want to place you in any position 
 to be put in that kind of position...
I'll have Mary wash you. Mary!
George 
I'm coming, baby  How's Otis doing, anyway?
I'm not used to that kind of treatment.
What kind of treatment?
I've never been treated that way, and I'm not going to start now.
Jesus, I don't know, baby, I been cutting too much hair lately. I'm losing all my concepts...
I can see that.
You're looking great, baby.
What're you doing later?
Whatever you say.
We have this political thing tonight. Could you comb me out at the house?
I don't know. I'm beginning to feel guilty.
What about?
All I ever do is play. I should be doing something to get my own shop open.
Why don't you see Lester?
Your husband?
Yes.
What about?
The shop. I think you're a good investment, and I don't mind telling him.
Hey, listen, baby, I'm a star.
Is she all right?
I don't know. Just a minute...
 Anyway.
I hope she's all right.
She's fine. You really think I'd be a good investment?
I wouldn't say so if I didn't.
No, I know.
And I certainly wouldn't tell Lester.
I know.
I mean it or I wouldn't say it.
That's great. You look great, baby, great. Dennis, look at Felicia's hair.
Hi.
Hello, George.
Comb my hair out later, honey.
No, that's okay, I'll do It now.
No, baby... I'm glad you're coming tonight.
But aren't you...
Right now, I just don't care.
Why didn't you come alone? Lester invited you. Did you have to bring her?
Well she...
She what?
She's a friend of Jill's.
And who's Jill?
Sweetheart, it's a bore out there... let's lock the door.
Holy Christ. You want to get us killed?
Don't be silly. I'll just tell Lester we were smoking a couple of joints. See?
Do you think George is a fairy?
Who?
That kid... the hairdresser.
Well, I don't know for sure... he's a hairdresser.
Maybe he's just a kooky guy who likes doing something kooky like that.
Maybe... why do you ask?
I'm thinking of investing with him. He worries me.
Why?
Maybe he's too flighty and irresponsible. That's why I asked if he was a fairy.
I don't know. He's a hairdresser.
You suggested it, don't you think it's a good idea?
Yes, but... I thought...
What?
That you were just indulging me.
No, doll, I listen to you. And if a deal loses money that's not so bad either if it's handled right.
That's George.
It's just  fabulous. Think you could do anything for me?
 yes, Senator  just a minute, dear 
Lester, don't you think that uhh 
That girl's making an awful spectacle of herself.
What do you expect me to do about it?
I just thought you'd like to know 
Why would I like to know if there's nothing I can do about it, goddammit 
Lester.
Yes, sweetheart, shh.
 I hope you like Miss Shawn 
 what, who? Oh she's very nice, yes  I mean normally 
 cause she's going to be very, very expensive.
Can't we go into this later, sweetheart?
We cannot go into this later.
That's okay too.
You make me sick. Just be straight for once in your life.
 is that right?
 yes, we're all trying to do something to make this a better country to live in, believe it or not.
 is that what this is all about?
Yes and you don't have to be sarcastic about it, that's a beautiful thing he's doing  some people do more than go to the beauty parlor and shop at Saks 
Lester, you're a miserable man. You're not helping anybody. You're just twisting arms to raise money for a lot of silly son of a bitches that are out for themselves  this is just business, don't kid yourself. And you know the worst thing about it, even if it does somebody some good somewhere which I can't possibly imagine, you'll never know the difference. You're just sweating and kidding yourself  and you're kidding yourself if you think your new business partner is going to keep his hands off that girl  or that she'll keep her hands off him.
What are you talking about?
 think what you have time to think, Lester.
You're in a good mood today, George.
Yeah, baby. Things are great. Listen, there's Devra, whatta you want?
Chicken salad.
Chicken salad, Devra!
Anyway, you remember Harold?
Yeah, baby, how's it going?
Don't you think there's too much gold?
It's great. You wanna speak to Mary? Hold on...
I don't know, I think...
Look, would you argue with your doctor?
No.
I thought you were in a good mood.
I am... except I've gotta do somebody at their house.
Don't you like her?
No, it's a very groovy girl.
Then what's the problem?
She's a very groovy girl. That's the problem.
What're you talking about, George?
Well, it's a small town. Sooner or later things catch up with you... don't they?
Both, sir.
Excellent. DC Mitchell is a rising star, Mr. Stevens. Under my tutelage he will undoubtedly make the grade.
Offering it for debate.
It's like recognizing criminals by their crimes.
You can tell by the intonation.
One other thing. Do you have any tattoos?
Your watch.
Is it real?
Or a fake?
Take all the time you like, doctor.
I'm sorry, I've never seen any of them.
Look again if you like.
No. I haven't seen them.
Do you think you have a good memory for faces?
Same as everyone else.
But in your work you must meet lots of different people, every day  new people, new faces. No?
Yes.
And what do you recognize, names or faces?
Diseases.
Like recognizing criminals by their crimes.
I suppose so.
I mean, that's what it's like.
Sorry?
And you said you supposed so, but I wasn't offering it for debate.
October 15th, direct flight, London Heathrow to Rio de Janeiro, British Airways, you are looking at seven hundred and sixtyfive pounds. Seven six five.
That sounds fine.
Air Portugal, on the other hand, via Lisbon, same day, five hundred and sixtyfive. Five six five. It's up to you. Catering important?
What?
Air France. Glasgow. Direct, but then you're looking at the wrong end of nine hundred and twelve pounds. That's nine one two. It's up to you.
Yes, the first one's fine. Heathrow direct.
It's up to you. Air Patagonia. New outfit: via Caracas and Bogot . No catering. Four hundred and eleven pounds. Four one one. Good value, but refueling at Bogot is variable.
The first one was fine.
Well, it's up to you. Seven six five. How will you be paying?
You must be Hugo.
You must be Juliet.
Would you like to come in?
I'd be delighted.
It's nice.
Would you like to see the rest?
What do you do?
Well, I've been away for a bit, travelling, that sort of thing, and now I'm trying to write a novel.
What's it about?
A priest who dies.
I see.
Yeah. Well, maybe I'll change it.
No.
Yes, I mean, who wants to read about another dead priest? It's about some other guy, some guy who's not a priest, who doesn't die. You see, it's better already.
Writing seems easy.
It's a breeze.
Do you think you could answer that?
The telephone? It continues to ring.
Yes, the telephone, but if it's for me, I'm not in. HUGO You're not in.
No.
All right.
It was some guy called Brian.
Did he sound upset?
A little bit. Is that good or bad?
It's an improvement.
Shall I answer it?
No, just leave it. He knows I must be at home. I'm working nights this week.
Working nights?
I'm a doctor.
And he's a patient of yours?
No. But he needs treatment.
For what?
A certain weakness.
The human condition.
You know about it?
I write about it?
And that's not the same thing?
No, but like all novelists, I'm in search of the self.
Hello.
What happened to that guy?
What guy?
That guy, the one that died.
What guy that died?
That one, last week.
Here?.
Yeah, here, I mean, where else?
Oh, him. Well, he died.
That's what I thought.
What do we do here, David?
Sorry?
Here.
Right here?
In this firm.
Well, it's a wide range of, eh 
Accounting, David, chartered accounting 
Exactly what I was 
 is often sneered at. Are you aware of that?
Not any real sneering as such, no.
There's a whole wide world out there, and it all needs to be accounted for, doesn't it?
Eh 
But they sneer, don't they?
I'm not sure 
Oh, it's unfashionable, I know, but, yes, we're methodical, yes, we're dilligent, yes, we're serious, and where's the crime in that, and why not shout it from the rooftops, yes, maybe sometimes we are a little bit boring, but by God, we get the job done.
Yes, sir.
And that's why I think you fit in here.
I'm boring?
You get the job done.
Oh, I see, I thought you meant 
Which is why I'm trusting you with this account.
Why do you want a room here?
Do you smoke?
Look, it's a fairly straightforward question. You're either divorced or you're not.
OK, I'm going to play you just a few seconds of this tape  I'd like you to name the song, the lead singer and the three hit singles subsequently recorded by him with another band.
It's just that you strike me as a man trapped in a crisis of emotional direction, afflicted by a realization that the partner of your dreams is, quite simply, just that.
Did you ever kill a man?
Just get on with it, Alex.
Keep it going, Alex. You're unstoppable now.
Is this what they always look like?
Yes.
I've never seen a dead body before.
Alex, I think it's time for you to stop.
Are you all right?
Oh, yes, I'm fine, thanks, just fine.
Would you like to talk about it?
No.
Do you know many of these people?
Yes. They're my friends.
Do you think you could be a little more forceful next time?
I'm sorry.
It's alright. I think he got the message anyway.
That was stressful. I found that stressful.
Two hundred.
Two hundred pounds?
Two hundred pounds.
You paid two hundred pounds for this?
That's what it cost, David.
No, no, no. That's what you paid for it. Two hundred pounds is what you paid for it. We don't know what it cost us yet, for you two to have a good time, we don't know the cost of that yet.
Expecting anyone?
What?
Were you expecting anyone? Tonight?
No.
Visitors? Some friends maybe? Someone you talked to?
No one. I promise.
Who have you talked to?
No one.
If I think you're lying 
I thought you'd gone to work.
With a face like this?
I'm sorry.
I should hope so.
We already know. All about it.
It was on the television.
So let's go.
You and me?
Yes.
And you need your sleep.
Eh, I don't know.
Oh, don't be so coy, dear. You're going to Rio.
What?
That's right. You're going to Rio. Rio de Janeiro. On your own. Come on, you should know. You bought the fucking ticket.
But I bet you didn't say you were going to split on him.
It wasn't like that.
Don't lie to me. Don't treat me like that.
Good evening. I'm Detective Inspector McCall and this is DC Mitchell. I wonder if we could ask you some questions.
What about?
It's about the burglary.
Burglary?
Downstairs.
Of course.
Can we come in?
So I just heard her cries for help and all that, and when I went downstairs there were already those other people there, so I just stood around really, waiting  you know how people do  and then when your colleagues arrived I came back upstairs. And that's about all, I think. I didn't actually see anything useful, I don't think.
did you hear anything before he cries?
No, not that I recall, I was asleep.
Have you seen anything or anyone suspicious around here in the last few days?
No, nothing, sorry.
Well, if you do, you'll let us know?
Of course.
And the other three people on the flat, did they hear anything?
There are only two other people in the flat.
Two?
Who said there were four?
We understood there were four people living here. Not always, of course, but now, four.
No, three. Who said there were four?
How strange. And how unsatisfactory to have misleading information. Only three people here. You're sure?
Yes, absolutely.
Take a note of that, Mitchell. Only three, rather than four. Write it down. You can use numbers or words, I have no preference. Which are you using?
I see.
I doubt it. And these two other people, did they hear anything?
No, they were asleep. They didn't even wake up.
Yes. Why do you think you woke and they didn't?
I don't know. Maybe I'm a light sleeper.
Loks like you had a breakin up here as well.
Someone lost the key.
Is this where no one stays?
Yeah, that's right, that's it.
No, I've never seen them.
You're sure of that.
Yes.
That wasn't a question.
Interesting.
I see.
Yeah, well, that's what she said. Interesting. That's why you're here, you see.
So, uh...
What?
What?
You were going to say something.
What was I trying to say? Oh, yes, I think, we think, or at least I suppose we think  am I right?
It's OK. There's no problem.
You mean I can have the room?
Well, that's what I said, isn't it?
Can you afford this place?
Yeah.
Cameron.
Cameron?
Yes.
Really?
When you slaughter a goat and wrench its heart out with your bare hands, do you then summon hellfire?
I mean, what are you actually doing here? What is the hidden agenda?
When you get up in the morning, how do you decide what shade of black to wear?
Now, let me get this straight. This affair that you're not having, is it not with a man or not with a woman?
And when did anyone last say to you these exact words: You are the sunshine of my life'?
OK, so A has left you, B is ambivalent, you're still seeing C but D is the one you yearn for. What are we to make of this? If I were you, I'd ditch the lot. There's a lot more letters in the alphabet of love.
Did you know 
Just serve.
I thought you stopped going.
Yeah, he had one too many of thise urges. You of all people should know that.
God, you two are sensitive. All I'm doing is implying some sort of sordid, ugly, sexual liason. Why, I'd be proud of that sort of thing.
Maybe you should go, Alex.You'll meet someone wonderful.
For my life? At a discussion group? I think not.
For the flat.
No. Be someone else like him. One is enough. And what happened to that girl, that friend of yours, the one that came round. I liked her. I really felt we had something. She could have moved in. We had chemistry.
She hated you 
Well, she had problems 
 more than anyone she has ever met. In her whole life.
 I'd be the first topoint that out. In all kindness I would. But, like they say, you know, she's got to want to change, hasn't she?
Has he tried down the back of the fridge? I mean, that's where I normally find things.
He seemed like a nice guy, Alex.
Who was it?
I don't know. He sounded Swedish. Do you know any Swedish men? Maybe it was just the emotion.
So we'll meet him, then?
What? Oh, yeah, sure, if you want. I tell you, every letter this guy writes to you is the same: they all begin like pure love and descend into open pornography. I dream of your thighs, the soft touch of your white skin leading me in desire, while I, aroused and inflamed '
Aroused and inflamed.
Alex.
He even signs them, in his own name, can you believe it? I'd sign someone else's name. I'd sign his name. If I wrote them, that is. Which I don't.
I'm not usually drunk.
Not usually this drunk.
In a moment he's going to tell he could have been someone 
It was you, Juliet, it was you 
 instead of what he is 
What I am.
 which is 
 which is a hack.
The man we know and love.
A miserable, burntout, empty shell of a  Alex pauses, looks at his drink, then at Juliet.
Know and love?
Yeah.
I think you're lying.
You're right.
You see, they don't really know me.
No, Alex, we don't really love you.
Have you seen Hugo?
No. Any idea which channel he's on?
David hasn't seen him either.
So I gathered.
Maybe he didn't like us.
David?
Hugo.
His car's still there.
He's got a car?
So what's wrong with that?
What sort of car?
Alex, how shouldI know? I'm just a girl.
I will ask you once more, what sort of car 
A blue one, OK. And it's still there.
Hugo. Hugo. Sorry about this, but can you open the door? It's us, Hugo, your flatmates and companions. Your newfound friends. He's not in. He's left and we'll probably never see him again.
Alex, the key is in the keyhole on the other side.
So?
Open it.
You want me to kick it open?
Yes.
Now?
Yes.
All right. No problem.
I wonder how he did it?
Did what?
I wonder how he killed himself. I presume that that's what happened. What do you think?
Alex.
What? What's wrong?
What are you doing?
I'm just looking.
Don't.
Don't look?
No.
Why not? What's wrong, Juliet? Aren't you curious? Don't you wonder what he died from?
No.The guy's dead.What more do you need?
It's not every day I find a story in my own flat.
Thats not a story, Alex. It's a corpse.
Old newspaper proverb says dead human being is living story. Be rational, please, and failing that be quiet.
No, Alex. It's, it's 
What?
Unfeasible.
Is that all?
Who's going to do it?
I thought we all were.
I don't thinkI can.
But you're a doctor. You kill people every day.
I don't want to. It's different.
And now you tell me.
Whoever draws the short straw does it all. That way, you either do it or you don't. All or nothing.
OK.
David?
Be careful.
Yeah, we don't want another stiff on our hands. Don't fall through the ceiling. OK? Is he listening to me?
Stop nagging.
I don't know why we couldn't stuff it in a mattress or put it under the floor like any normal human being. We could have hid it in the fridge.
Sshh.
I want my money back. Excuse me.
Love and happiness for ever.
For ever and ever.
David, I promise we will. Keep him happy.
It's not for me. It's for love and happiness forever.
Look over there. It's Cameron.
Who?
Cameron. You remember Cameron.
No, I don't.
What's he doing here?
That's not him.
Yes, it is. It's him. Cameron, Cameron, come on over.Yo!
Well, you certainly had a good look around.
You were magnificent.
Hello. Hello.
Who was it?
Don't know. No one said anything. ALEX Rendered speechless with desire. I recall that feeling, from the days when I had such a thing.
Are you all right?
No.
Then let's spend some money.
Will you calm down.
Yeah, you're making us all nervous.
Is this the same stuff you made last week?
No, no, it's different.
I hope it tastes better than the other stuff.
It tastes different.
I don't want it to taste different. I don't know why I bother. Is that enough for you? Hey!
You know, you should spend some of that money instead of worrying about it. That's my advice.
He's right. You'd feel much better about it.
Once it's spent you won't have to worry about it.
Be like a weight off your shoulders.
You know we're right.
Don't you?
I don't see the point in that.
Because that's no good. Remember, we did what we did, we took the money. It was a material calculation. But what's the use if it's underground, or in some funny bank in some funny place? If you can't spend it, if you can't have it, what use is it? None. It's nothing, all for nothing, if you do that. I didn't get into this for nothing, so that I could have nothing 
Leave him alone.
He can't stay up there.
He'll come down. Leave him alone.
Yeah, he's got to go to work, hasn't he? You think he'll come down for that?
No, but he's looking after the money, so what's the problem?
Looking after it  he's probably fucking well eating it.
Boy, am I glad to see you.
What are you doing here?
We have to talk.
Your painful groin?
Later. But first  him.
David?
Exactly. Now I've been thinking 
Oh, good.
He won't do anything for me, but for you 
Forget it.
He isn't safe up there. If you really cared about him, you'd use your influence to get him down, then he'd be safe.
And the money?
We could put it somewhere.
Where he can't get it?
Now you thought of that, not me.
Forget it  he'll come down.
Expecting anyone?
No.
Oh.
Aren't you going to answer it?
Well, I'm not expecting anyone either.
No, definitely not. And that's that. I refuse to discuss it further.
It's the only way.
I refuse.
You're frightened.
No, I'm not frightened. A little terrified maybe. Did you see what happened to the last two who tried that? They went up alive and they came down dead  the difference, I mean, alive dead dead alive, that sort of thing. It wasn't difficult to spot. He killed them both: he cut them up.
You'll wait in the hall?
I'll wait there.
And if it sounds like I'm being killed, you'll phone the police, you'll tell them everything?
Everything.
Everything. Except maybe that it was his idea and not mine in the first place. OK? That's important to me. I need to die misunderstood.
Alex.
What?
As smart as you are, you'll need a little help.
Are you all right?
Yes, of course. Why wouldn't I be?
I don't know. I thought maybe I was 
We were just sorting things out.
Of course, but I think you'll find the print medium provides a more lucid and detailed 
Oh, shut up, Alex.
It makes us feel a whole lot better.
That's what I thought he said.
It's about me and David.
The perfect couple, I should say.
You mustn't take it so badly.
Don't worry about it. I'd do exactly the same, but I don't think I'm his type.
Don't you ever stop?
No.
Stop him, Alex. You've got to stop him.
Let him go. Let him take it all.
That's right.
What?
Well, Cameron, are you comfortable?
Yes, thanks.
Good. Well, you've seen the flat?
Yes.
And you like it?
Oh, yes, it's great.
Yes. It is, isn't it? We alllike it. And the room's nice too, don't you think?
Yes.
Spacious, quiet, bright, well appointed, all that sort of stuff, all that crap.
Well, yes.
So tell me, Cameron, what on earth  just tell me, because I want to know  what on earth could make you think that we would want to share a flat like this with someone like you?
What?
Nothing. We thought you were someone else.
Is this being recorded?
This is just an informal discussion.
Are you recording it?
What does it look like?
It looks like he's writing everything down.
That's because he is. Does that upset you?
No. Why should it?
Well, then?
I've never seen any of these men before.
Take another look at these two.
I don't know them.
And if I told you their car was parked outside, would that surprise you?
Yes, I suppose so.
Well, is it?
What?
Parked outside?
No, not any more. I just wondered if it would surprise you.
That's it, then.
That's all?
Sorry to waste your time.
Oh, no problems. Don't worry.
Just one thing.
Yes.
What? Uh, no, no, it's a fake. I picked it up in Thailand. The second hand doesn't sweep, you see.
I see.
Right.
Tell you what. If you do remember seeing any of these guys, maybe you could give me a phone, on this number, any time you like.
Out in the woods. Three bodies. Decomposed. Mutilated. Beyond recognition.
I don't know anything about it.
Of course you don't know anything about it. If you knew anything about it, I wouldn't have to send you over there to cover it.
Cover it?
Well?
But there's no 
Animals involved? I know, but you need a change. And besides, we're short.
I don't know.
Don't know what?
Well, I've got this story, it's really good, I'm working on, that is good, I feel it could be big, it this, eh, and it's, you know, it's incredible. Am I right, did you say beyond recognition'?
What's his name?
I don't know  Campbell or something?
All right, just a few questions.
I'd like to ask you about your hobbies.
Do a little freebasemaybe, from time to time?
Or maybe just phone out for a pizza?
Turning very briefly to the subject of corporate finance  no, this is important. Leveraged buyouts  a good thing or a bad thing?
With which of the following figures do you most closely identify: Joan of Arc, Eva Braun or Marilyn Monroe?
Squash is often used as a metaphor to represent a struggle for personal domination.
Serve.
I was trying to educate you.
Just serve.
In the same fashion as chess.
What?
Chess. Chess is often used as well.
Will you shut up and play.
You're a bad loser.
I haven't lost yet.
I don't want to devalue your victory, but I just want you to know: I wasn't trying to win.
Victory is the same as defeat. It's giving in to destructive competitive urges.
You learn that in your psychotherapy group?
Discussion group, Alex, discussion.
What do you think?
About what?
About this guy, this Hugo person.
I don't have time.
I'm only asking what you think.
I don't have time to discuss it now. I don't care so long as he's not a freak.
He made it clear.
Why, thank you, David.
Only on expenses.
It's true. A newspaper is paying for all this. A newspaper...
No, she's not in. Without waiting for any more, he replaces the reciever and walks to the door, where he picks up the mail. On his way back from the door, David emerges, ready to go to work.
Have you seen him?
Alex, I don't have the time 
Yes or no, yes or no, yes or 
No.
I saw my grandmother, of course, but I don't suppose that counts. I mean, she was alive at the time.
Can I show you something?
No.
Think about it.
No.
Come on, David.
No.
Juliet?
You mean immoral.
I'm only asking you both to think about it.
It's asick idea, Alex. It's sick.
But don't tell me that you're not tempted by it. Don't tell me that you're not interested. I know you well enough.
You think so?
All right, then, go ahead, telephone. Telephone the police. Try again. No one's going to stand in your way. Go ahead. Tell them there's a suitcase of money and you don't want it.
He's still here.
He couldn't get his car started.
When are you going to let the police know?
You call them if you want.
And what about you?
Now what else? DAVID I don't know.
A spade, we need a spade  I wish you would concentrate  we need a spade if we're going to dig a pit.
So who's going to do it?
Dig the pit, I don't know.
No, not that.
Then what? Who's going to do what?
You know what I'm talking about.
Do I? What? What? What are you talking about?
You know what. Who's going to do it.
We all are, David, we're all going to do it. Each of us, you, me and Juliet, will do his or her bit. Is that fair enough?
I can't do it.
I don't hear this.
I won't be able to.
You're telling me you want out? Already? You're telling me you don't want the money? Hugo is going off. He smells. The flat smells. We can't wait any longer.
I'm just telling you I can't cut him up.
Family? Family? Friends? Druggedup wandering suicidal search of the self fuckups don't have families, David.
I just thought we should discuss it.
Take his legs.
I don't know.
Look, if I draw the short straw, then I'll do it, but I'm not going to do it just because you won't.
Finished.
But not quite.
Is that going to be deep enough?
Don't you worry about that.
Is this necessary?
Yes. Now come on, all or nothing.
That was good.
Can we talk about something?
Not now. I have an idea.
Listen, it's important. We need to talk about what we're going to do 
Just stop worrying.
What's the problem?
I want to talk now.
After you drink to love and happiness forever.
Now.
After.
Good luck. I love that guy, but why does he have to follow us around?
Anyway, what I was wanting to say was this 
Yeah, but you were good, you were really good. Fucking binbag', I liked that. You were good. You explored your maleness to the full there.
You think so?
How much did you pay?
I don't know.
How much did you pay?
I don't know.
How much?
I don't know.
What is this?
Security.
From what? Jehovah's Witnesses?
There was a breakin.
Downstairs, I know. Pensioner's terror ordeal: page six.
Doesn't it worry you?
No, it doesn't. I tried to let it worry me but it won't. I've worked on that paper for three years. There is a pensioner's terror ordeal on page six every day. Every day. Maybe when I'm a pensioner it'll worry me.
What's all this for, more security?
I fitted a lock up there. On the inside.
Oh, that'll come in useful.
What? Yes, that's fine.
You're sure? There's lots more.
No, I'm sure, that'll be enough.
What's wrong?
Nothing.
You're not eating.
Not eating what?
Not eating like you used to, that's what.
If you give me the plate, I'll eat.
I want to secure it.
Secure it? What do you mean  you're gong to take it to a bank? You're not going to take it to a bank? You're not going to take it to a bank Or what, you want to bury it? Is that it?
You looking for me?
Looking for you? Yes.
What for? What did you want? The money? Was that it?
We just wanted to speak to you.
Who?
Your friends.
I don't know what you're talking about.
It wasn't deep enough. I told you it wasn't deep enough, but you wouldn't listen.
It doesn't neccessarily matter. They don't even know who those people are, and even if they did, they have nothing to connect them with us, nothing at all.
I'm glad you're so certain, Alex. It makes us feel a whole lot better.
I beg your pardon?
But they know.
They can know all they like, it won't do them the slightest bit of good 
They know.
They know? So what? They have nothing, there is nothing, to connect us to that bodies stuff.
Except the money.
Sex lines? Is that it? Triple Xrated interactive fantasy? Old habits die hard.
Yeah, I was phoning your mother.
You old devil. Well, anyway, as you can see, we're leaving.
So I gathered.
Yeah, I'm sorry, but that's the way it is.
It's all right. I'll forward your mail.
No, really, I am sorry, sorry to be ducking out on you like this. I hope you won't take it personally.
Oh, no, no, no. Don't let it worry you. Not at all. It's probably for the best.
For the best. Exactly. I wouldn't want things to end on a downer.
Not at all.
I mean, we've had ups and downs, right  good times, bad times?
Yeah?
But more laughter than tears, I think? Yes. On balance? I mean, remember that time when  oh, we could talk all night, but we have to go. Don't we, Juliet?
No, can't think of anything else that matters.
About the mail 
It's very kind of you to offer, but 
Where do you think you'll go?
Where will we go? Where will we go? Juliet?
What?
I bought the tickets. One for her and one for me. It was my idea.
Your idea? Well, that fits. I mean, the two of you, that fits together. I should have seen that long ago.
"Poet?"
I was a poet till now, but I have seen beauty that puts my poems at one with the talking ravens at the Tower.
How do I offend, my lord?
By coveting my property. I cannot shed blood in her house but I will cut your throat anon. You have a name?
Christopher Marlowe at your service.
Here we come at last, my lord!
Are you bringing your laundry woman?
Her chaperone. My lady's country cousin. My, but you be a handsome gallant, just as she said! You may call me Miss Wilhelmina!
On a more fortuitous occasion, perhaps
Oh, my lord, you will not shake me off, she never needed me more, I sear by your breeches!
Is there a man?
A man, my lord?
There was a man, poeta theatre poet, I hearddoes he come to the house?
A theatre poet?
An insolent pennyapage rogue, Marlowe, he said, Christopher Marlowehas he been to the house?
Marlowe? Oh yes, he is the one, lovely waistcoat, shame about the poetry.
That dog!
You upstart inky pup! Now I will show you your place, which is in hell!
You are on my ground.
By God, I'll fight the lot of you
Your name?
Thomas Kent. I would like to do a speech by a writer who commands the heart of every player.
Take off your hat.
My hat?
Where did you learn how to do that?
I . . .
Wait there.
Are you Mr. Shakespeare?
Let me see you. Take off your hat.
Yes, sir.
Do you understand me?
No, sir.
He is speaking about a baggage we never even meet! What will be left in your purse when he meets his Juliet?
I am very sorry, sir, I have not seen Act Two.
Of course you have not! I have not written it!
She tells me to keep away. She is to marry Lord Wessex. What should I do?
If you love her, you must do what she asks.
And break her heart and mine?
It is only ours you can know.
She loves me, Thomas!
Does she say so?
No. And yet she does where the ink has run with tears. Was she weeping when she gave you this?
I Her letter came to me by the nurse.
Your aunt?
Yes, my aunt. But perhaps she wept a little. Tell me how you love her, Will.
Like a sickness and its cure together.
Yes, like rain and sun, like cold and heat. Is your lady beautiful? Since I came to visit from the country, I have not seen her close. Tell me, is she beautiful?
Oh, if I could write the beauty of her eyes! I was born to look in them and know myself.
And her lips?
Oh, Thomas, her lips! The early morning rose would wither on the branch, if it could feel envy!
And her voice? Like lark song?
Deeper. Softer. None of your twittering larks! I would banish nightingales from her garden before they interrupt her song.
She sings too?
Constantly. Without doubt. And plays the lute, she has a natural ear. And her bosomdid I mention her bosom?
What of her bosom?
Oh Thomas, a pair of pippins! As round and rare as golden apples!
I think the lady is wise to keep your love at a distance. For what lady could live up to it close to, when her eyes and lips and voice may be no more beautiful than mine? Besides, can a lady born to wealth and noble marriage love happily with a Bankside poet and player?
Yes, by God! Love knows nothing of rank or riverbank! It will spark between a queen and the poor vagabond who plays the king, and their love should be minded by each, for love denied blights the soul we owe to God! So tell my lady, William Shakespeare waits for her in the garden!
But what of Lord Wessex?
For one kiss, I would defy a thousand Wessexes!
Oh!it'sit'soh, it's a house of ill repute!
It is, Thomas, but of good reputation. Come, there is no harm in a drink.
My lady Viola.
My lord.
I have spoken with your father.
So my lord? I speak with him every day.
My lady VIOLA.
Lord Wessex. You have been waiting.
I am aware of it, but it is beauty's privilege.
You flatter, my lord.
No. I have spoken to the Queen. Her majesty's consent is requisite when a Wessex takes a wife, and once gained, her consent is her command.
Do you intend to marry, my lord?
Your father should keep you better informed. He has bought me for you. He returns from his estates to see us married two weeks from Saturday. You are allowed to show your pleasure.
I do not love you, my lord.
How your mind hops about! Your father was a shopkeeper, your children will bear arms, and I will recover my fortune. That is the only matter under discussion today. You will like Virginia.
Virginia?!
Why, yes! My fortune lies in my plantations. The tobacco weed. I need four thousand pounds to fit out a ship and put my investments to workI fancy tobacco has a future. We will not stay there long, three or four years . . .
But why me?
It was your eyes. No, your lips.
Will you defy your father and your Queen?
The Queen has consented?
She wants to inspect you. At Greenwich, come Sunday. Be submissive, modest, grateful and brief.
I will do my duty, my lord.
Good morning, my lord!
Ah! My lady! The tide waits for no man, but I swear it would wait for you!
I meanYour Majesty, they do not, they have not, but I believe there is one who can
Lady Viola isyoung in the world. Your Majesty is wise in it. Nature and truth are the very enemies of playacting. I'll wager my fortune.
You look sad, my lady! Let me take you riding.
It is not my riding day, my lord.
Bless me, I thought it was a horse.
I am going to church.
I understand of course. It is to be expected.
It is to be expected on a Sunday.
And on a day of mourning. I never met the fellow but once at your house.
Mourning? Who is dead, my lord?
Oh!dear God, I did not think it would be me to tell you. A great loss to playwriting, and to dancing.
He is dead?
Killed last night, in a tavern! Come, then, we'll say a prayer for his soul
My lady!
Who is there?
Will Shakespeare!
Anon, good nurse. Anon. Master Shakespeare?!
The same, alas.
Oh but why "alas?"
A lowly player.
Alas indeed, for I thought you the highest poet of my esteem and a writer of plays that capture my heart.
OhI am him too!
Oh my lady, my love!
If they find you here they will kill you.
You can bring them with a word.
Oh, not for the world!
Can you love a fool?
Can you love a player?
Wait! You are still a maid and perhaps as mistook in me as I was mistook in Thomas Kent.
Answer me only this: are you the author of the plays of William Shakespeare?
I am.
Then kiss me again for I am not mistook.
I do not know how to undress a man.
It is strange to me, too.
I would not have thought it. There is something better than a play.
There is.
Even your play.
Oh
And that was only my first try.
Well perhaps better than my first.
You would not leave me?
I must. Look how pale the window.
Moonlight!
No, the morning rooster woke me.
It was the owlcome to bed
Oh, let Henslowe wait.
Mr. Henslowe?
Let him be damned for his pages!
Ohno, no!
There is time. It is still dark.
It is broad day! The rooster tells us so!
It was the owl. Believe me, love, it was the owl.
Oh, do not go
I must. I must
Oh, Will!
Yes, some of it is speakable.
"Good night, good night. As sweet repose and rest Come to thy heart as that within my breast. O wilt thou leave me so unsatisfied?"
That's my line!
Oh, but it is mine too!
I found something in my sleep. The Friar who married them will take up their destinies.
Oh, but it will end well for love?
In heaven, perhaps. It is not a comedy I am writing now. A broad river divides my loversfamily, duty, fateas unchangeable as nature.
Yes, this is not life, Will. This is a stolen season.
You cannot! Not for the Queen herself!
What will you have me do? Marry you instead?
To be the wife of a poor player?can I wish that for Lady Viola, except in my dreams? And yet I would, if I were free to follow my desire in the harsh light of day.
You follow your desire freely enough in the night. So, if that is all, to Greenwich I go.
Then I will go with you.
You cannot, Wessex will kill you
I know how to fight!
Stage fighting! Oh, Will! As Thomas Kent my heart belongs to you but as Viola the river divides us, and I will marry Wessex a week from Saturday.
Will! What?
A literary feud. Quite normal.
Marlowe's touch was in my Titus Andronicus and my Henry VI was a house built on his foundations.
You never spoke so well of him.
He was not dead before. I would exchange all my plays to come for all of his that will never come.
You lie.
You lie in your meadow as you lied in my bed.
My love is no lie. I have a wife, yes, and I cannot marry the daughter of Sir Robert de Lesseps. It needed no wife come from Stratford to tell you that. And yet you let me come to your bed.
Calf love. I loved the writer, and gave up the prize for a sonnet.
I was the more deceived.
I love you, Will, beyond poetry.
Oh, my love You ran from me before.
You were not dead before. When I thought you dead, I did not care about all the plays that will never come, only that I would never see your face. I saw our end, and it will come.
You cannot marry Wessex!
If not Wessex the Queen will know the cause and there will be no more Will Shakespeare.
Nono.
But I will go to Wessex as a widow from these vows, as solemn as they are unsanctified.
Will you read it for me?
"Wilt thou be gone? It is not yet near day> It was the nightingale and not the lark That pierced the fearful hollow of thine ear. Nightly she sings on yon pomegranate tree. Believe me, love, it was the nightingale."
"It was the lark, the herald of the morn, No nightingale. Look, love, what envious streaks Do lace the severing clouds in yonder east. Night's candles are burnt out, and jocund day Stands tiptoe on the misty mountain tops. I must be gone and live, or stay and die."
"thou need'st not to be gone."
"I have more care to stay than will to go. Come death, and welcome. Juliet wills it so. How is't my soul? Let's talk. It is not day."
A hired player no longer. Fifty pounds, Will, for the poet of true love.
I am done with theatre. The playhouse is for dreamers. Look where the dream has brought us.
It was we ourselves did that. And for my life to come I would not have it otherwise.
I have hurt you and I am sorry for it.
If my hurt is to be that you will write no more, then I shall be the sorrier.
The Queen commands a comedy, Will for Twelfth Night.
A comedy! What will my hero be but the saddest wretch in the kingdom, sick with love?
An excellent beginning Let him bea duke. And your heroine?
Sold in marriage and half way to America.
At sea, thena voyage to a new world?she lands upon a vast and empty shore. She is brought to the dukeOrsino.
Orsinogood name
But fearful of her virtue, she comes to him dressed as a boy
and thus unable to declare her love
But all ends well.
How does it?
I don't know. It's a mystery
You will never age for me, nor fade, nor die.
Nor you for me.
Good bye, my love, a thousand times good bye.
Write me well.
Who are you, master?
I am Ethel, sir, the Pirate's daughter.
I'll be damned if you are!
Better fortune, boy.
I was in a play. They cut my head off in Titus Andronicus. When I write plays, they will be like Titus.
You admire it?
I like it when they cut heads off. And the daughter mutilated with knives.
Oh. What is your name?
Wait, you'll see the cat bites his head off.
I have to get back.
Like you, I found him not at home!
So this is the favour you find in the Chamberlain's Men.
What does Burbage care of that? He is readying the Curtain for Kit Marlowe.
You have opened the playhouses?
I have, Master Shakespeare.
But the plague
Yes, I know. But he was always hanging around the house.
She is a beauty, my lord, as would take a king to church for a dowry of a nutmeg.
My plantations in Virginia are not mortgaged for a nutmeg. I have an ancient name that will bring you preferment when your grandson is a Wessex. Is she fertile?
She will breed. If she do not, send her back.
Is she obedient?
As any mule in Christendom. But if you are the man to rider her, their are rubies in the saddlebag.
I like her.
"Have not saints lips, and holy palmers too?"
"Ay pilgrim, lips that they must use in prayer."
"Oh then, dear saint, let lips do what hands to: They pray: grant thou, lest faith turn to despair."
"Thus from my lips, by thine, my sin is purg'd."
"Then have my lips the sin that they have took."
"Sin from my lips? Oh trespass sweetly urg'd. Give me my sin again."
"The brightness of her cheek would shame those stars As daylight doth a lamp. Her eyes in heaven Would through the airy region stream so bright That birds would sing and think it were not night. See how she leans her cheek upon her hand. O that I were a glove upon that hand, That I might touch that cheek.
"Ay me."
"She speaks.
I would not for the world!
I have night's cloak to hide me from their eyes; And but thou love me, let them find me here.
"O wilt thou leave me so unsatisfied?"
"What satisfaction can'st thou have tonight?"
"The exchange of thy love's faithful vow for mine."
Mr. Pope! Mr. Phillips! Welcome, George Bryan! James Armitage! Sam! My pretty one! Are you ready to fall in love again?
I am, Master Shakespeare.
But your voice Have they dropped?
No, no, a touch of cold only. We suspect he is lying but WILL has turned away.
Master Henslowe, you have your actors.
Master Shakespeare
Luck be with you, Sam. Sam?
It is not my fault, Master Shakespeare. I could do it yesterday.
Sam! Do me a speech, do me a line.
"Parting is such sweet sorrow"
When will you write me a sonnet, Will?
I have lost my gift.
You left it in my bed. Come to look for it again.
Are you to be my muse, ROSALINE?
Burbage has my keeping but you have my heart.
Will!
I would have made you immortal. Tell Burbage he has lost a new play by Will Shakespeare.
"I know not."
"Go ask his nameIf he be married, My grave is like to be my wedding bed."
"All my fortunes at thy foot I'll lay, And follow thee my lord throughout the world."
"Madam!"
"I come, anonBut if thou meanest not well, I do beseech thee"
"Madam!"
By and by I come to cease thy strife and leave me to my grief. A thousand times good night!"
Your Majesty
There was a wager, I rememberas to whether a play can show the very truth and nature of love. I think you lost it today. You are an eager boy. Did you like the play?
Your Majesty!
Why, Lord Wessex! Lost your wife so soon?
Indeed I am a bride short. How is this to end?
As stories must when love's deniedwith tears and a journey. Those whom God has joined in marriage, not even I can put asunder.
Lord Wessex, as I foretold, has lost his wife in the play housego make your farewell and send her out. It's time to settle accounts. How much was the wager?
Fifty shillings. Pounds.
Give it to Master Kent. He will see it rightfully home. WESSEX gives his purse to VIOLA.
Your Majesty.
Stand up straight, girl.
I have seen you. You are the one who comes to all the playsat Whitehall, at Richmond.
Your Majesty.
What do you love so much?
Your Majesty
Speak out! I know who I am. Do you love stories of kings and queens? Feats of arms? Or is it courtly love?
I love theatre. To have stories acted for me by a company of fellows is indeed
They are not acted for you, they are acted for me.
And?
And I love poetry above all.
Above Lord Wessex?
But playwrights teach nothing about love, they make it pretty, they make it comical, or they make it lust. They cannot make it true.
Oh, but they can!
Did you like Proteus or Valentine best? Proteus for speaking, Valentine for looks.
I liked the dog, for laughs.
But Silvia I did not care for much. His fingers were red from fighting and he spoke like a schoolboy at lessons. Stage love will never be true love while the law of the land has our heroines played by pipsqueak boys in petticoats! Oh, when can we see another?
When the Queen commands it.
But at the playhouse. Nurse?
Be still.
Playhouses are not for wellborn ladies.
I am not so wellborn.
Wellmonied is the same as wellborn and wellmarried is more so. Lord Wessex was looking at you tonight.
All the men at court are without poetry. If they look at me they see my father's fortune. I will have poetry in my life. And adventure. And love. Love above all.
Like Valentine and Silvia?
No . . . not the artful postures of love, but love that over throws life. Unbiddable, ungovernable, like a riot in the heart, and nothing to be done, come ruin or rapture. Love like there has never been in a play. I will have love or I will end my days as a . . .
As a nurse.
But I would be Valentine and Silvia too. Good Nurse, God save you and good night. I would stay asleep my whole life if I could dream myself into a company of players.
He sees himself in me! Romeo Montague, a young man of Verona.
Verona again.
A comedy of quarreling families reconciled in the discovery of Romeo to be the very same Capulet cousin stolen from the cradle and fostered to manhood by his Montague mother that was robbed of her own child by the Pirate King!
Your mother, and your father
From tomorrow, away in the country for three weeks! Is Master Shakespeare not handsome?
He looks well enough for a mountebank.
Oh, Nurse! He would give Thomas Kent the life of Viola De Lesseps's dreaming.
My lady, this play will end badly. I will tell.
You will not tell. As you love me and as I love you, you will bind my breast and buy me a boy's wig!
Two hours at prayer!
Lady Viola is pious, my lord.
Piety is for Sunday! And two hours at prayer is not piety, it is self importance!
It would be better that you return tomorrow, my lord.
It would be better that you tell her to get off her knees and show some civility to her sixday lord and master.
Not ready? Where is she?
Be patient, my lord, she is dressing.
Will you ask Her Majesty to be patient?!
Be good to her, my lord!
I will.
God bless you!
Thank you. Let go, there's a good nurse.
"Good morrow, cousin."
"Is the day so young?"
"But new struck nine."
"Ay me, sad hours seem long. Was that my father that went hence so fast?"
It was. What sadness lengthens Romeo's hours?"
"Not having that which, having, makes them short."
"Out."
"Of love?"
"Out of her favour where I am in love."
Kit
How goes it, Will?
Wonderful, wonderful.
Burbage says you have a play.
I have. And chinks to show for it.
I insistand a beaker for Mr. Marlowe. The BARMAN does the business.
I hear you have a new play for the Curtain.
Not newmy Doctor Faustus.
I love your early work. "Was this the face that launched a thousand ships and burnt the topless towers of Ilium?"
I have a new one nearly done, and better. The Massacre at Paris.
Good title.
And yours?
Romeo and Ethel the Pirate's Daughter. Yes, I know.
What is the story?
Well, there's a pirate In truth, I have not written a word.
Romeo isItalian. Always in and out of love.
Yes, that's good. Until he meets
Ethel.
Do you think?
The daughter of his enemy.
The daughter of his enemy.
His best friend is killed in a duel by Ethel's brother or something. His name is Mercutio.
Mercutiogood name.
Good luck with yours, Kit.
I thought your play was for Burbage.
This is a different one.
A different one you haven't written?
Will! Where is my play? Tell me you have it nearly done! Tell me you have it started. You have begun?
Doubt that the stars are fire, doubt that the sun doth move
No, no, we haven't the time. Talk prose. Where is my play?
It is all locked safe in here
God be praised! Locked?
As soon as I have found my muse
Who is she this time?!
She is always Aphrodite.
Aphrodite Baggot who does it behind the Dog and Trumpet?
Henslowe, you have no soul so how can you understand the emptiness that seeks a soulmate?
Well, I am a dead man and buggered to boot. My theatre is close by the plague these twelve weeks, my company is playing the innyards of England, while Burbage and the Chamberlain's Men are invited to court and receive ten pounds to play your piece, written for my theatre, by my writer, at my risk when you were green and grateful 
What piece? Richard Crookback?
Noit's comedy they want, Will! Comedy! Like Romeo and Ethel?
Who wrote that?
Nobody! You are writing it for me! I gave you three pounds a month since.
Half what you owed me. I am still due for One Gentleman of Verona.
Mr. Henslowe, will you lend me fifty pounds?
Fifty pounds? What for?
Burbage offers me a partnership in the Chamberlain's Men. For fifty pounds my hired player days are over.
Cut out my heart! Throw my liver to the dogs!
No, then.
Where are you going?
To my weekly confession.
Now where? Will?
To the Palace at Whitehall.
I feel a scene coming on.
Is it about a pirate's daughter?
Romeo and Rosaline. Scene One! God, I'm good!
Rosaline? You mean Ethel.
Will! Have you finished?
Yes. Nearly. It's all locked safe in here. We need Ralph for the Pirate King. Good morning, Master Nol. You will have a nice little part.
My tailor. Wants to be an actor. I have a few debts here and there. Well, that seems to be everybody. Did you see a Romeo?
I did not.
Well, I to my work, you to yours. When can I see pages?
Tomorrow
We are at least six men short, and those we have will be overparted, ranters and stutterers who should be sent back to the stews. My Romeo has let me down. I see disaster.
We are at least four acts short, Will, if you are looking for disaster.
Nobody. The author.
We are about to embark on a great voyage.
It is customary to make a little speech on the first day. It does no harm and authors like it.
You want to know what parts you are to receive. All will be settled as we go
Cut round him for now.
What? Who?
Romeo.
The one who came with your letter?
What?
Juliet? You mean Ethel.
God's teeth, am I to suffer this constant stream of interruption?! What will you do in Act Two when he meets the love of his life?
By God, I wish I knew.
By God, Will, if you do not, who does? Let us have pirates, clowns, and a happy ending, or we will send you back to Stratford to your wife!
We are lost.
No, it will turn out well.
How will it?
I don't know, it's a mystery.
Another little problem.
What do we do now?
The show must you know
Go on.
Juliet does not come on for twenty pages. It will be all right.
How will it?
I don't know. It's a mystery.
Ned, I swear I knew nothing of this!
Nobody knew!
It is over.
I am so sorry, Mr. Henslowe. I wanted to be an actor. I am sorry, Will.
No Juliet?!
it will be all right, madam.
What happened to Sam?
Who are you?
Thomas Kent!
Do you know it?
Every word.
When?
Two weeks, three at the most, Aaaagh! For pity's sake.
Take his feet out. Where will you get
I have a wonderful new play!
Put his feet in.
It's a comedy.
Cut his nose off.
A new comedy. By Will Shakespeare!
And his ears.
And a share. We will be partners, Mr. Fennyman!
Partners!
It's a crowdticklermistaken identities, a shipwreck, a pirate king, a bit with a dog, and love triumphant.
What's the title?
Romeo and Ethel the Pirate's Daughter.
Good title.
But I have to pay the actors and the authors.
A share of the profits.
There's never any
Of course not!
Mr. Fennyman, I think you may have hit on something.
Romeo and Ethel The Pirate's DaughterAlmost finished?
Without doubt he is completing it at this very moment.
This time we take your boots off!
What have I done, Mr. Fennyman?
The theatres are all closed by the plague!
Oh, that.
by order of the Master of the Revels!
Mr. Fennyman, let me explain about the theatre business. The natural condition is one of insurmountable obstacles on the road to imminent disaster. Believe me, to be close by the plague is a bagatelle in the ups and downs of owning a theatre.
So what do we do?
Nothing. Strangely enough , it all turns out well.
How?
I don't know. It's a mystery.
Where is the play?
Oh, it's coming, it's coming.
Is it going well?
Very well.
But nothing is happening.
Yes, but very well.
I want no more trouble, Mr. Fennyman. As I explained to you, the theatre business
Henslowe, you pound of tripe, in my business I would be out of business if I had your courage, so don't tell me about business
Mr. Shakespeare has given me the part of the Apothecary!
The Apothecary? Will, what is the story? Where is the shipwreck? How does the comedy end?
Well, that will have them rolling in the aisles.
Sad and wonderful! I have a blue velvet cap which will do well, I have seen apothecary with a cap just so.
Gentlemen! Thank you! You are welcome.
Who is that?
I saw his Tamburlaine, you know. Wonderful.
Yes, I saw it.
Of course, it was mighty writing. There is no one like Marlowe
Mr. Fennyman, because you love the theatre you must have a part in my play. I am writing an Apothecary, a small but vital role.
By heaven, I thank you! I will be your Apothecary!
I have not said all. By malign fate, the message goes astray which would tell Romeo of the Friar's plan. He hears only that Juliet is dead. And thus he goes to the Apothecary.
That's me.
And buys a deadly poison. He enters the tomb to say farewell to Juliet who lies there cold as death. He drinks the poison. He dies by her side. And then she wakes and sees him dead.
Words, words, wordsonce, I had the giftI could make love out of words as a potter makes cups out of clay love that overthrows empires, love that binds two hearts together come hellfire and brimstonesfor sixpence a line, I could cause a riot in a nunnerybut now
And yet you tell me you lie with women?
Black Sue, Fat Phoebe, Rosaline, Burbage's seamstress; Aphrodite, who does it behind the Dog and
Aye, now and again, but what of it? I have lost my gift.
I am here to help you. Tell me in your own words.
I have lost my gift. It's as if my quill is broken. As if the organ of the imagination has dried up. As if the proud tower of my genius has collapsed.
Interesting.
Nothing comes.
Most interesting.
It is like trying to a pick a lock with a wet herring.
Tell me, are you lately humbled in the act of love?
How long has it been?
A goodly length in times past, but lately
No, no. You have a wife, children
A woman of property?
She had a cottage. One day, she was three months gone with child, so
And your relations?
On my mother's side the Ardens
No, your marriage bed.
Four years and a hundred miles away in Stratford. A cold bed too, since the twins were born. Banishment was a blessing.
So now you are free to love
yet cannot love nor write it.
Will it restore my gift?
The woman who wears the snake will dream of you, and your gift will return. Words will flow like a river. I will see you in a week.
There is no dog in the first scene, Will Kempe, thank you. How goes it Will?
I am still owed money for this play, Burbage.
Not from me. I only stole it. When are you coming over to the Chamberlain's Men?
When I have fifty pounds.
Are you writing?
A comedy. All but done, a pirate comedy, wonderful.
What is the chief part?
Romeo. Wit, swordsman, lover.
The title?
Romeo
I will play him. Bring it tomorrow.
It's for Henslowe. He paid me.
How much?
Ten pounds.
You're a liar.
I swear it. He wants Romeo for Ned and the Admiral's Men.
Ned is wrong for it.
Here is two sovereignsI'll give you two more when you show me the pages.
Done.
Burbage, I will see you hanged for a pickpocket.
The Queen has commanded, she loves a comedy and the Master of the Revels favours us.
And what favour does Mr. Tilney receive from you?
Ask him.
We have no Juliet!
No Juliet?!
We will all be put in the clink.
See you in jail.
What do you want, Kit?
My Massacre at Paris is complete.
You have the last act?
You have the money?
Tomorrow.
Then tomorrow you will have the pages.
Wait! Will you desist!
Twenty pounds on delivery
What is money to me like us? Besides, if I need a play, I have another waiting, a comedy by Shakespeare.
Romeo?he gave it to Henslowe.
Never!
Well, I am to Deptford now, I leave my respects, Miss Rosaline.
I gave Shakespeare two sovereigns for Romeo!
You did. But Ned Alleyn and the Admiral's Men have the playing of it as the Rose.
Treachery!
Follow that boat!
Right you are, governor!
I know your face. Are you an actor?
Yes.
Yes, I've seen you in something. That one about a king.
Really?
I had the Christopher Marlowe in my boat once.
Do you know that house?
Sir Robert De Lesseps.
Oh, Thomas! She has cut my strings! I am unmanned, unmended, and unmade, like a puppet in a box.
Writer, is he?
Thank you, my lady!
Lady?
Viola De Lesseps. Known her since she was this high. Wouldn't deceive a child.
We are in desperate want of a Mercutio, Ned, a young nobleman of Verona
And the title of this piece?
Mercutio
WillWhere is Mercutio?
Locked safe in here. I leave the scene in your safe keeping, Ned, I have a sonnet to write.
You did not like the speech?
The speech is excellent. "Oh, then I see Queen Mab hath been with you!" Excellent and a good length. But then he disappears for the length of a bible.
NedI knowI know
It's good.
Oh
The title won't do.
Ah
Romeo and Julietjust a suggestion.
Thank you, Ned.
You are a gentleman.
And you are a Warwickshire shithouse.
Ohwhat have I done?
He was the first man among us. A great light has gone out.
Well, look here!
Ladies and gentlemen: The "Straub countryresidence".
Damn, this thing is heavy. Where do you want to have it?
Tenth floor.
Very funny.
Look at this. The lock is totally demolished.
I guess someone lost their key. You did get your tetanus shots, I hope?
Twentythree, to be exact.
I wonder how you guys figure on renovating this whole place. You can afford to spend some money. If I was you, I'd spare myself all the hard work. Besides, didn't you want to start writing again?
Hey, my man! How's the masterpiece coming along?
Not so bad, if I could get some peace and quiet around here.
Oh, Mrs. Straub. May I introduce you to my wife?
Just call me Elisabeth.
Stop scaring people. Let's go. We need to be on our way.
Excuse us. But do stop by for a visit sometime! You are welcome anytime.
You didn't tell her!
We should leave the past alone.
Well, it will never leave us alone as long as you ignore it.
I think it's starting again. You know... there was something peculiar. If only I knew...
Peculiar? You mean, like back then?
Yes, something was...
Hammer?
How could I fail to notice that!  I have to go...
Listen, it's one thing to have a guilt complex. But I know the difference between when I'm overstrung and when I'm seeing things that are simply not there! Besides, it only began after we moved!
There is, of course, another possible explanation which I dearly hope is not the case.
And that is?
A tumor  which could cause pressure on certain parts of the brain and, thus, influence your perception.
Mrs. Straub!
I've killed my husband!
What?
I think I've killed him. Martin, my husband, I've killed him! That is, I'm not sure, but...
It all went so fast. He was out of his mind and then all of sudden there was this screwdriver. I only wanted to defend myself. You have to call the police...
We can do all of that later, but first you need to calm down.
Hello. Can I help you?
Does this dog here belong to you?
No, I've never seen him before.
You know, I saw him sitting outside your gate... Oh, I'm sorry, I'm forgetting my manners again! I haven't even introduced myself yet. Hi, my name's Lindner. Karl Lindner.
Ellen Straub.
It's a pleasure. You're from the city, right?
Do I look like it that much?
Village gossip. You're a real attraction here.
I guess it's too lonely for most folks. It's time for me to get going. It's been a pleasure meeting you.
Wait, won't you join me for a cup of coffee?
You know, after doing that job for so many years, you learn to appreciate the simple things in life. Flowers incorporate a beauty that I always missed in life. But certainly, you're not here to chat about my hobbies.
1976. What happened back then?
Do yourself a favor: Don't ask.
I appreciate your concern, but we live in that house. I need to know what happened in there.
Ellen.
You're doing fine, aren't you? I mean... the two of you alone in that house, so far out in the moor.
Oh, Ellen! I've been wondering when you'd come. Why don't you step in.
Thank you.
I really hate to bother him, but...
Oh no, no. You're not bothering him. He has lots of time since he's been retired.
Frank Kosinski. Here's the address. Go see him. Ask him.
Thank you. Elisabeth, I didn't mean to...
That's alright. Don't misunderstand my husband. It's only that he's already had enough problems with this case. And who would believe him if he told the truth?
But what is the truth?
I don't know all about what happened back then. But it always stood between me and my husband.
Why else?
Come on, say it. You know...
Say it anyway. Come on, how much do you love me?
"With you, my life began and with you shall it end..."
I have to cut his windpipe...
You're not a doctor, you'll hurt him!
What else should I do, damn it, he's dying!
Ellen, move aside...
Oh God, Tommi...
Stop that!
You'll never get away from me!
So, how does it feel to be kissed by two women?
They say it's fantastic. At least that's what I read in a men's magazine. So who are the two lucky ones?
Me and the muse, of course. How is your book coming along?
Oh, the muse... we're still having our differences. You know how it is with women.
Well then, I guess I'd better leave the two of you alone. But don't forget...
What kind of a horrible thing is that?
It still worked in town.
I mean the armchair!
Oh, that was upstairs. A real antiquity! I think it's great.
Maybe the antenna's broken.
We're probably lucky that we even have running water and electricity! Damned box!
Hey... the fuse.
Oh, damnit!
Do you know where fuse box is?
In the cellar, I think. Wait, I'll take care of it.
Look at this! We'll have to fix the whole wiring. This stuff is dangerous as hell.
We'll call for someone from town first thing in the morning.
Are you crazy? That costs a fortune!
Do you have a better idea?
I'll do it myself.
You?
My father was an electrician. Already forgot that?
My father was a pilot. And do I know how to fly?
Hey, flower child, the sixties are over. And this stuff is hazardous to your health.
Yes, daddy.
Where are you going?
Well, if you won't let me smoke grass, then at least I'll go get myself some cigarettes.
What are you doing?
Making our very own solstice fire.
Is everything alright? Aren't you feeling well?
I just had a really strange experience.
Maybe I should talk to Dr. Roth about it.
Hey, take your time. You know time heals better than any shrink ever can.
I have a funny feeling. Do you think we'll get over all that's happened?
We just have to make a new beginning.
Cherryred Tears.
What?
Cherryred Tears, your first book. I read it at least nine times. And then I found out you were going to attend some kind of book fair.
Not a book fair. I was signing autographs in a department store.
I was so excited about meeting you. Again and again, I kept getting in the back of the line so I could be the last to talk to you.
And two months later, we got married. And all because of one sentence: "With you, my life began and with you shall it end..."
I miss Tommi so much.
So do I, believe me.
Do you really think anything can ever be like it was before?
Maybe different. I don't know, Ellen.
If we stand a chance at all, it's only by sticking together.
Who was that?
Someone from the village.
Martin, it's not funny!
You know, it's not always easy for me, either. But at least I try not to give in to each and every neurosis.
Well, apparently it was a big mistake to try talking to you. Don't you remember what we promised to each other? Honesty  trust!
Come on, this isn't about honesty. You just need a good night's sleep. The way you toss and turn all night, even I hardly get any sleep.
Now, what did I do to deserve this?
Come on, at least try one. It took me two hours to make these.
So, did you sleep good?
Yeah... I have to go to town.
Hey, you're still here. I suppose you like it here with us.
No, thanks. I have everything I need. Drive safely, you hear?
Don't tell me you've made friends with that wandering flea circus?
Why not? She can guard the house. By the way, I gave her a name: Clara.
Where have you been all day?
I went to see Prof. Roth! You know, I had another one of those dreams last night. I saw Tommi!
But that's not the point! What if all these things are somehow connected?
Oh, baloney. You should just hear yourself talk!
Where have you been?
In the village. Look what I found.
"Events commonly interpreted as haunting apparitions often result from psychic disharmonies or undigested traumatic ordeals..."
Ellen, what are you trying to prove, anyway? That we've created ourselves a ghost? Come on!
It's just a feeling. Don't you sense it, too?
What? What am I supposed to sense?
The house  Tommi  something just doesn't jive here...
Who's that?
I haven't the slightest idea.
What?
Look at this! The dog! She's dead!
She was old.
Old?! Come look at this! She has wounds. Wounds on her head. Like thrashes. Or bites.
Maybe an animal.
An animal? What kind of animal? A goddamned TRex, or what?
Let me guess: Another short circuit?
Hi, darling.
During the Middle Ages people were executed at every corner. What's your point?
This house, the whole damned area around here is one mass grave... Now you might call me crazy, but there is something negative about the place.
Okay, so the house has a history and there might still be a couple of corpses in the moors. "There is something negative about the place..." What the hell are you trying to say? Come on! Spit it out!
Will you finally cut it out? Just in case you haven't noticed, I am trying to write a book here. And maybe  even with your birdbrains  you can figure it's a pretty tough job. So why can't you just leave me alone?
Damn it, look at you! Don't you see what's happening with you? We need to get out of here, don't you understand? Out of this house!
Martin, what
It's simply too dangerous here! But no, you always have to have it your way.
You know what I have to do now, and believe me: I don't enjoy doing this.
Martin, damnit, what are you up to? Let go of me!
Of course you'll give me the blame again. Like back then. Just a tiny cut and he could still be alive today  isn't that right, Ellen?
What are you talking about
Oh, Ellen. My sweet Ellen... Of course I knew.
We loved each other once. Have you forgotten that?
I told you, there is no way out. He won't let you go.
'HE'? Whom do you mean
It's important  he knows the last chapter.
Your book  that's why you were always in the cellar!
You know, Tommi wants me to become the man I used to be.
...So he's dictating you a new bestseller? Whatever that is, it's not our son.
What?
I have a yearning for... smog, cars and many, many people... A real dirty... big city. What do you think?
How did you get me out of there?
I wouldn't have made it by myself.
For God's sake, what happened to me?
You don't remember?
She'd be about thirteen now...
We got two around that age...
Where?
You'll have to wait until we reach the agency...Fall in behind the column...
But couldn't you...?
Sorry... Keep the column moving!..Close ranks there!
Don't go takin' that stuff...
Ain't worth the mendin'...
What you gettin' redintheface for?...I have brothers, haven't I?
Well I ain't one of 'em!
I'm a woman, Martie... We wash and mend your dirty clothes all our lives...When you're little we even wash <U>you</U>....How a man can ever make out to get bashful in front of a woman I'll never know...
You talk like a feller might just as leave run around nekkid...
Wouldn't bother me... I wouldn't try it in front of pa, though, was I you...
Might at least have left me my pants!
Shush!...Time for bed anyway... Likely these'll need some takin' in...Oh, Martie, you're that gaunted! ...Ma's havin' a turkey for dinner tomorrow and...
Futterman!...He's got a little tradin' post on the South Fork o' the Brazos...Laurie, I just got to get me a good horse! Think yer pa would...
Finish your breakfast...
I gotta catch up with him, Laurie!
Go on then! Pa's in the barn saddlin' the Fort Worth stud... an' you can take the light gelding with the blaze...
But that's Sweetface  your own good horse.
Take it and welcome...but don't count on finding me here when you get back...I've been dallying around this godforsaken windscour almost two long years waitin' for you...I ain't cut out to be an old maid!
I can't help it, Laurie...I just gotta catch up with Ethan...
I...I wrote you a letter...Reckon you didn't get it...
One letter in five years...I read it till the paper dried up and the writing faded out...
It wasn't much of a letter...
No, it wasn't...You mighta said you loved me...You mighta asked me to wait...At least that'd have been something...
But I allus loved you...You know that, without my sayin' it...I couldn't bring myself to ask you to wait...the little I had... not knowin' how much longer until we found Debbie...
It isn't fair...
Don't cry, Laurie...I understand how it is...I'll just go 'way...
You do and I'll die, Martie...I will! I'll just die!
Martie...don't go! Not this time.
You crazy?
It's too late...She's a woman grown now...
I got to fetch her home...
Fetch <U>what</U> home?...The leavin's of Comanche bucks  sold time an' again to the highest bidder?...With savage brats of her own, most like?...
<U>Laurie</U>! Shut your mouth!
Do you know what Ethan will do if he has a chance?...He'll put a bullet in her brain! And I tell you Martha would want him to!
Only if I'm dead!
Oh, all right! Well...Martin says...
From the beginning...
'Dear Miss Laury'...He spells it with a Y instead of an I...E...Wouldn't you think he'd know...
Who cares what he spells it? Read the letter.
Dear Miss Laury...I take pen in hand to let you know Ethan and me still are trying to catch up with them Com anches the late Mister Futterman told us about...
The <U>late</U> Mister Futterman?
That means Mister Futterman is dead, by golly.
Every young man should at least once...Go on, Laurie! Read!
A little Comanche squaw  SQUAW!
They never find that girl.
Yours truly... And he even has to write his full name...Martin Pauley...not even just <U>Martie</U>!... I don't care if he <U>never</U> comes back!
I'd be obliged if you'd get to the point, ma'am.
I am...I am...It's just that I know Martha'd want you to think of her boys as well as her girls...And if the girls are...dead...Ethan, don't let the boys waste their lives in vengeance!
Well, you did all a body could, Ethan.
I got your boy killed.
Don't go blamin' yourself...
Why it's just a snip of calico...
You ever see it before...like mebbe on a dress Debbie wore?
Yes!..Yes, I remember!..Have they found her, Ethan?
No...not yet...
She's not a little girl any more.
You've seen her!...She's alive?
I've seen her...and she's alive.
Was your niece about their age?
Not far from it...
Hard to realize they're white, isn't it...
They're not white any more  they're <U>Comanche</U>!...Let's see the bodies...
Well, we only got the one lead  Scar...And where we begin to look, I don't know...
There's one thing. We recovered a bushel of trinkets in that camp... cheap stuff...trade goods...Couldn't help noticing that most of it was Mexican...Maybe if you could talk to some of those Mexican traders along the border...What do they call themselves?
Comancheros...
That's the breed...Course it might take time.
Time's running out...But I'm obliged to you.
Not quite...Quarter Cherokee. The rest is Welsh...So they tell me.
You've done a lot of growin'...
Somethin' mighty fishy about this trail, Uncle Ethan...
Stop callin' me 'uncle'...I ain't your uncle.
Yes, sir.
Don't have to call me 'sir' neither... Nor grampaw neither...Nor Methuselah neither...I can whup you to a frazzle.
What you want me to call you?
Name's Ethan...Now what's so mighty fishy about this trail?
Well, fust off...
Well, come on!
Easy! It's forty miles, sonny...Horses can do with some grain and a little rest.
Nothing for you to see.
Leggo...
All right...but I'm givin' the orders...You take 'em or we split up here and now...
Why, sure, Ethan...There's just the one thing we're after...finding Deborah and Lucy...
If they're still alive...
Easy on that!
Sorry...We don't even know if Debbie 'n Lucy are with this bunch...Maybe they split up...
They're with 'em  if they're still alive.
You want us to fire a shot if...
No...nor build bonfires...nor beat drums neither. I'll meet you on the far side.
You all right, Ethan?
Huh...? Sure I'm all right...
Say!...What happened to your blanket? Lose it?
Must've...Anyway, I ain't goin' back to look for it...
What you goin' to do?
Get some sleep...Tomorrow's another day...
Say it. We're beat!
No...our turnin' back don't change anything...not in the long run. If she's alive, she's safe...for a while...They'll keep her to raise as one of their own, 'til she's of an age to...
And you think we got a chance to find her?
An Injun will chase a thing til he thinks he's chased it enough...Then he quits...Same when he runs...Seems he never learns there's such a thing as a critter that might just keep comin' on...So we'll find them in the end, I promise you that...We'll find them just as sure as the turning of the earth.
Good night...Laurie...
Good night...
Jorgensen's been runnin' his cattle with my own...
YOUR cattle?...<U>DEBBIE'S</U> cattle!
He's agreed to take you on and share the increase from my herd while I'm gone...I'll be pushin' on tomorrow...
I ain't stayin'...I set out lookin' for Debbie...I aim to keep on...
Why?
Because she's my...my...
She's your nothin'...She's no kin to you at all!
I always felt like she was...Her folks takin' me in, raisin' me like one of their own...
That don't make 'em kin...
All right...I ain't got no kin... I'm goin' to keep lookin' that's all.
How? You got any horses, or money to buy 'em...You ain't even got money to buy cartridges...Jorgensen's offering you a good livin' here...
Martin...I want you to know some thin'...
Yeah...you want me to know I ain't got no kin  no money  no horses  nothing but a dead man's clothes to wear!..You tole me that already... Now shut your head!
Good night.
Hey! What's the idea...?
Maybe I'm gettin' like Mose Harper  my bones is cold tonight...
Not so funny...if you recollect what 'Nawyecka' means...
What's that?
Sorta like 'roundabout'  like a man says he's goin' one place when he means to go just the reverse...
Oh...
You all settled an' comfortable now?
Futterman?
He just couldn't wait...
Whatchu doin'?...
Let's go...I think I stumbled onto somethin'...
Scar?
When are you goin' to learn to keep your mouth shut! Come on. Let's get out of here.
But I just bought a good blanket.
Forget it...
What I heard back there was that a band o' hostile Nawyeckas came through this way less'n two weeks ago...
Think it might be...?
<U>YOU</U> don't understand, ya chunkhead! <U>You</U> didn't buy any blanket! Ya bought <U>her</U>!
What?
You got yourself a <U>wife</U>, sonny!
Oh no! Tell her she's got to go back...
And have her whole family after our scalps for floutin' one o' their women?...No sir! Come on, Mrs. Pauley...
That's the way to train 'em. Looks like Mrs. Pauley's goin' to make you a fine beautiful wife...
Cut it out, will ya...
Says her name's Wild Goose Flying in the Night Sky...but she'll answer to Look since it pleases ya...
Look?
You ask her!
Look! Scar?... Do you know where he went? And if he has a girl with him...a <U>white</U> girl  naibist pabo taibo...
Beats me how she could get that pony out o' camp without neither of us hearin' a thing...
She ain't goin' back to her family, that's certain...not if she took off where the arrow points.
Think she means for us to follow?
How should <U>I</U> know...She's YOUR wife!
I think maybe we oughta...
Yeah, I kinda figgered you'd say that...Bein' a new husband and all...
Ethan, quit it!
Nine... Ten!
What's the sense in it!
Least, <U>THEY</U> won't feed any Comanches this winter...Killin' buffalo's as good as killin' Injuns in this country.
Peaceful tribes depend on the buffalo, too....
Ain't that too bad...If you feel that sorry for your kinfolk, I'm surprised you didn't take up with that squaw wife of yours...
Well, you're a widower now...
What'd the soldiers have to kill her for!..
No...She's not...
I ain't sure...Where's that doll?
Lemme alone...
You breeds are all alike  two drinks an'...
Suit yourself...While you're enjoyin' your little conversation, I'll be ridin' out with Senor Fernandez here... The Comanch' medicine country ain't far...there's one camp with a chief named Cicatriz.
Never heard of him...
Cicatriz is Mex for <U>Scar</U>...an' he has a white girl in his tepee...Be seein' you...
Stay out here.
Not likely.
You figger Scar means to kill us?
He's got to...All these years, run nin', dodgin', knowin' we were after him...Now we caught up...It's him or us.
Why didn't he make his move back there?
I don't know...Somethin' tied his hands...maybe hospitality...
How? She's even forgot her own language!
Debbie, you're comin' with us! Hear me?
Go on! Get out of here while you can...
Over there!
They'll be back...
We won't be here...Come on!
'I, Ethan Edwards, being of sound mind and without any blood kin, do hereby bequeath all my property of any kind to Martin Pauley...' I don't want your property.... 'Sides, what do you mean no 'blood kin?' Debbie's your blood kin...
Not no more.
You can keep your will! I ain't forgettin' you was all set to shoot her yourself...What kind o' man are you, anyway.
She's been with the bucks! She's nothin' now but a...
What's that got to do with us?
What's goin' on?
Wait! We go chargin' in, they'll kill her...and you know it.
It's what I'm countin' on.
I know you are...Only it ain't goin' to be that way...she's alive...
Livin' with Comanches ain't bein' alive...
She's alive...Better she's alive and livin' with Comanches than her brains bashed out...
I saw it...And don't try to tell me it was Aunt Martha's or Lucy's...
You don't remember it, but I remember. That was your mother's scalp!
Sir  we charged!..Gentlemen  and I hope you will quote me  I cannot say too much for the courage of the men who followed me into that Cheyenne camp...
<U>Cheyenne</U>! What Cheyenne?
I beg your pardon?
That camp you hit was Nawyecka Comanche...Chief Scar's bunch...
My name's Edwards...I'm looking for my niece...she was in that camp when you attacked...
Well...I know there were some captives recovered...
Are you sure they didn't die of carbine shots fired by a bunch o' Yank bluebellies so scared they couldn't tell the difference between a Cheyenne and a Comanche?
Keefer!..Put this man under arrest!
That'll be the day... 'As we developed the village'... Next time you develop a village, hit it where the fightin' men are... You won't get any headlines for killin' squaws.
How'd you come by this?
You said there'd be a thousand dollar reward.
That's what I said.
You got it with you?
Talk!
A young buck fetched it in late last summer... Said it belonged to a captive chile of Chief Scar...
Scar? Never heard of any Chief Scar.
Me neither...But this buck claimed he was a big war chief with the Nawyecky Comanches.
Keep talking.
Scar's band was headin' north...to winter in at Fort Wingate...eatin' agency beef. That's what this buck said...Maybe he lied.
And maybe you lie...
In that case you won't find her  and I won't get my thousand dollars.
Don't forget to come back with my thousand dollars.
Ain't yours yet.
Ayeh...They was here...
SURE!...They <U>WERE</U> here...Now they're out there...an' waitin' to jump us!...
Steady, Daniel Boone! You don't want to miss...It makes them think their medicine's stronger than yours...
Ayeh...That's jest what I tole Joe Powers...That un's gettin' kinda sassy, ain't he, Ethan?
Leggo my arm...You look mangier 'n ever.
Ain't been too good...No sir, not too good...Gettin' old, Ethan...
You were born old...
Well, the reward still stands...
Don't want no money, Ethan...jus' a place  a roof over m' head...a little grub...a bunk to sleep in... an' a rockin' chair by the fire... my own rockin' chair by a fire...
You help me find her, you got your rockin' chair...
Swear it, Ethan?...Given word?
Told ya, didn't I?
Ethan...I found a man's seen her... knows where little Debbie is!
Come f'r my rockin' chai'...ole Mose.
Where's Scar, Mose...SCAR?
Mose...try to remember!...You were in Scar's camp...
Ayeh...Made out I was crazy... Ate dirt...chewed grass...I fooled 'em, Ethan!...an' I got away...
Scar! Where's he holed in?
Seven Fingers...ayeh...Seven...
Martin! Ride me as far as the well!
Grab hold!...
Unntmeah!
We ain't goin'! We ain't goin' without you, Debbie...Ethan, get the horses...I'll try to keep her talkin'...
I don't care what they've done to you...what happened...
They have done...nothing...They are my people...
No Debbie! That ain't what happened! They been lyin' to you...
You lie! All white men lie...and kill...
Debbie, think back! I'm Martin... remember? Remember how I used to let you ride my horse? Tell you stories? Don't you remember me, Debbie?
I remember...from always...At first I prayed to you...come and get me... Take me home...You didn't come...
I've come now...
These are my people... Unntmeah! Go! Go! <U>Please</U>!
Is Captain Clayton here, Reverend?
I'm Clayton.
Colonel Greenhill's compliments, sir. The Colonel wishes to know how soon you could put a company of Rangers in the field, fully armed and...
Hold on, son...Who's this Colonel Greenhill you're talking about?
Why Colonel Greenhill is Colonel Greenhill, sir...Commanding Officer, Fifth U.S. Cavalry...I'm Lieutenant Greenhill, sir.
Oh...Now what's this your pa wants to know?
My pa wants to know...<U>Colonel</U> <U>Greenhill</U> wants to know how soon you could put a company of your Rangers in the field, fully armed and equipped, for joint punitive action against the Comanches.
JOINT action?
Yes sir...We've received information about a band of Comanches under a chief named Scar...
And what makes you think he's in this territory?
Yesterday, one of our patrols picked up a man claims he was a prisoner with Scar till only two days ago... He talks crazy but I brought him along...Says he lives here...keeps mentioning a rocking chair.
You tell your pa a company of Rangers  all fourteen of 'em  fully armed an' equipped will be in the field by daylight...headin' for the south end of the Malapai. If he can catch up with us, well an' good...
But...but captain, we can't possibly take the field tomorrow...for your own protection...
Sonny, yonder's a passel of murderers, complete with Texican scalps an' white girl captive...You want to protect us, you just get out of our way...Now <U>skedaddle</U>!
What in...?
Captain Clayton...Captain!
Go on! Whyn't you have your bugler sound the charge while you're at it??
Sir?
Never mind...Your pa know you're out here?
Yes, sir...Troop's about ten miles back...The Colonel sent me looking for you...
Well you found me...Good work, son...Good work.
If there's anything I can do, sir...
God forbid...No, son, you flog on back and tell your pa where we're at...and where he's at...
But he knows THAT, sir...Can't I stay, sir?
All right...But keep your eye on me, boy...I'm the hard case you're up against here  not these childish savages...If you don't hear me first time I holler, you better read my mind...I don't aim to raise no two hollers on any subject at hand...
Yes, sir...
Haven't seen you since the surrender. Come to think of it, I didn't see you <U>at</U> the surrender.
I don't believe in surrenderin'...I still got my sabre, Reverend...never turned it into any ploughshare neither!
You ain't goin'...
He sure <U>is</U> goin'...He's sworn in.
Well, swear him out again!...I'll go with you.
You can forget that... Wouldn't be legal anyway.
Why? You wanted for a crime, Ethan?
You askin' as a Reverend or a Captain, Sam?
I'm askin' as a Ranger of the sovereign state of Texas.
Got a warrant?
You fit a lot of descriptions.
I figger a man's only good for one oath at a time...I took mine to the Confederate States of America... So did you, Reverend...
He cometh forth like a...
Amen!...Put an 'amen' to it!
...like a flower and is cut down... <U>Amen</U>!
What good does that do?
By what you preach...none!
They're camped by the river  'bout twenty miles from here. Soon's it gets dark we'll circle out so's to jump 'em before day break.
You're right sure you want to <U>jump</U> 'em, Ethan?
It's what we're here for, ain't it?
I thought we were trying to get the girls back  <U>alive</U>...We jump those Comanches, they'll kill 'em...You know that!
What do you know about it?...What's a quarterbreed Cherokee know about the Comanche trick of sleeping with his best pony tied right beside him...You got as much chance of stampedin' their herd as...
...as you have of findin' those girls alive by ridin' into 'em... I say we do it my way, Ethan...and that's an order!
Yes, sir...But if you're wrong, <U>Captain</U> Clayton, don't ever give me another!
You got any more orders, Captain?
Just keep goin'...
If you were tryin' to surround 'em, you sure succeeded.
How far's the river from here, Mose?
I didn't give any order to fire!
That's all right, Captain...I don't need any formal invitation to kill a Comanch...
You got one now!
Evenin'...evenin' Reverend...or do I call you 'Captain'...?
Came here for a wedding, Ethan... Until that's over, I reckon 'reverend' will do...
Fight fair, son...Use your fists!
Comanches don't use their fists, reverend...Let 'em alone...
I got to ask you and Martin to ride to the State Capitol with me, Ethan.
This an invite to a necktie party, Reverend?
<U>Captain</U>...Nope, wouldn't say that... Likely you had your reasons for killin' Futterman...Probably needed killin'...I'm speaking as a ranger now, not as a reverend...Fact that all three was shot in the back is the only thing that's raised some question  that and a missin' gold piece known to have been on him just prior to his demise.
We can get within 500 yards...there's a hogback to the south.
How many, would you say?
Enough to go around...I'd say about a dozen apiece...Mount 'em up!
Now son, it's a bitter thing to say, but there's more than your sister at stake here.
There sure is! I'm going to tell you somethin'...I wasn't going to speak of it...But I'll tell you now. Did you notice them scalps strung on Scar's lance? Did you see the third scalp from the point of the lance? Long... wavy hair...
I didn't <U>want</U> to tell you...but maybe it's your right to know.
Now mount up, son...
I say NO!
Go ahead, son...But at the first alarm, we're comin' in  and we ain't goin' to have time to pick and choose our targets when we do...
Another one, eh?
This 'un come a long way 'fore he died.
Well, that's seven we can score up to your brother, Ethan.
Is this in the line of duty, sergeant?
No sir...pleasure.
In that case, give the boys room...
You all right, sergeant?
Dunno...Seems so.
Well, go get cleaned up and we'll proceed with the weddin'...
You're goin' if the captain says you're goin'...
Now, now...let's not grow dis putatious...
Ethan, you an' Martin are hereby appointed civilian scouts  without pay...Charlie, hightail it to head quarters an' spread the word...
Yes sir...
<U>Charlie</U> <U>MacCorry</U>!...You weren't fixin' to marry HIM??
She sure is!...An' don't think your comin' back is goin' to change it!
As to that, I don't know, Charlie... We hadn't got around to talkin' marriage...
What right you got to be talkin' marriage to any decent woman...
If you're talkin' about that crazy murder charge...
AND other things...Mebbe you thought you was gettin' away with being comical about that Indian wife you took...I bet she wasn't the first squaw you...
It's all right...Charlie, let's move outside.
I ain't wearing no gun.
Killed every one  an' not for food either...Why'd they do a thing like that?
Stealing the cattle was just to pull us out...This here's a murder raid... It shapes up to scald out either your place...or my brother's.
Let's get along...
Why don't you finish the job?
They got to stop <U>sometime</U>...if they're human at all, they got to stop!
Naw...a human man rides a horse till it dies...then he goes on afoot...A Comanche comes along...gets that horse up...and rides it twenty more miles...Then he eats it.
You've said that enough!...Maybe Lucy's dead...maybe they're both dead...but if I hear it from you again, I'll fight ya, Mr. Edwards!
That'll be the day!...Let's ride.
Why'd they break off? Was there water in that canyon?
Huh...? No...no water.
What you saw wasn't Lucy.
It was, I tell you!
What you saw was a buck wearin' Lucy's dress... I found Lucy back there in that canyon...I wrapped her in my blanket an' buried her with m'own hands...I thought it best to keep it from you  long as I could.
Lucy's going on seventeen now...
An' she's got a beau! Kisses him, too!
That's enough...Go on inside and help Lucy set the table...You, too, Deborah!
Not tonight...Ben, put that sword back.
It's not a sword, ma...It's a sabre! Did you kill many damYankees with this sabre, Uncle Ethan?
It's all right, ma...I been watchin'... Only I wish...
What, Ben?
I wish Uncle Ethan was here. Don't you, ma?
How's California?
How should I know?
But Mose Harper said...
That old goat still creakin' around?...Whyn't someone bury him?
It was Ethan found you squallin' in a sage clump after your folks was massacred...
It just happened to be me...No need to make any more of it...
Passed the Todd place comin' in... What happened to 'em?
They gave up...went back to the cotton rows...So'd the Jamisons... Without Martha, I don't know...She wouldn't let a man quit.
You askin' me to clear out now?
You're my brother...You're welcome to stay as long as you got a mind to...Ain't that so, Martha?
Now, Ethan, I ain't sure...
Don't argue!...And stay close... Maybe they're rustlers...and maybe this dodderin' old idiot ain't so far wrong...
Neighbors heard them screaming at each other for like two hours. It was nothing new. But, then they heard the gun go off. Both barrels.
Did the wife confess?
When the patrolman came she was trying put his head back together. She was crying too hard to say anything.
Why always like this? Only after the fact... this sudden realization, that if you shoot someone, or stick a knife in them, that person will cease to exist.
Crime of passion.
Yes. Look at all the passion splattered up on the wall here.
This is a done deal. All but the paperwork.
Did their son see it happen?
I don't know.
It's nice to meet you. My husband has told me a lot about you... except your first name.
Oh... um, William.
It's a nice name. William, I'd like you to meet David. David... William.
It smells good.
What? Oh, yes. I mean, thank you. Please, sit down.
I hear you and Mills were high school sweethearts.
High school and college, yes. Pretty hokey, huh? I knew on our first date this was the man I was going to marry. God... he was the funniest man I'd ever met.
Really?
Don't worry. I don't wear it at the dinner table.
No matter how often I see guns, I still can't get used to them.
You have a strange way about you... I mean interesting. I'm sorry. It's really none of my business. It's just nice to meet a man who talks like that. If David saw that paper, he'd say you're a fag. That's how he is.
I guess I won't be showing it to him then.
I was close once. It just didn't happen.
It surprises me. It really does.
Any person who spends a significant amount of time with me finds me... disagreeable. Just ask your husband.
How long have you lived here?
Too long. What do you think so far?
I don't know, with this case.
If you can, please call me. Please. I have to go now... goodnight.
I mean, you known this city. You've been here for so long.
It's a hard place.
I don't sleep very well.
I feel strange being here with you... without David knowing.
I'm sorry, I only...
Perfect example.
You have to put blinders on sometimes. Most times.
I don't know why I asked you to come.
Talk to him about it. He'll understand if you tell him how you feel.
I can't be a burden, especially now. I know I'll get used to things. I guess I wanted to know what someone who's lived here thinks. Upstate, it was a completely different environment. I don't know if David told you, but I teach fifth grade, or did.
He mentioned it.
I've been going to some of the schools, looking for work, but the conditions here are... horrible.
You should look into private schools.
I don't know...
Oh, Tracy... I have to tell you, I'm not the one to talk to about this.
I hate this city.
Well, I got up one morning and went to work... just like any other day, except it was my first since hearing about the baby. And, I... I felt this fear and anxiety washing over me. I looked around, and I thought, how can we raise a child surrounded by all this? How can a child grow up here? So, that night, I told her I didn't want us to have it, and over the next few weeks, I convinced her it was wrong. I mean... I wore her down, slowly.
I want to have children. It's just...
I can tell you now, I know... I'm positive I made the right decision. I'm positive. But, there's never a day that passes that I don't wish I had decided differently.
I'm sorry about this, Mrs. Gould. I really am.
I... I don't understand.
I need you to look at each one carefully... very carefully. Look for anything that seems strange or out of place. Anything at all.
I don't know why... why now?
Please, I need you to help me if we're going to get who did this.
Anything... anything missing or different.
I don't see anything.
Are you absolutely certain?
I can't do this now... please.
This painting...
What?
Why is this painting hanging upsidedown?
I'm a little thrown. I just got in town like twenty minutes ago and they dumped me here.
Since we're just starting out, I thought we could go to a bar... sit and talk for awhile. After that, we'll...
Actually, if it's all the same, I'd like to get to the precinct house a.s.a.p. Seeing how we don't have much time for this whole transition thing.
I need to start getting the feel of it all, right? Meet the people.
I meant to ask you something, Mills, when we spoke on the phone. I can't help wondering... why here?
I... I don't follow.
All this effort you've made to get transferred, it's the first question that pops into my head.
I'm here for the same reasons as you, I guess. Or, at least, the same reasons you used to have for being here before... before you decided to... quit.
You just met me.
Maybe I'm not understanding the question.
It's very simple. You worked a nice, quiet town, but you fought to get here as if your life depended on it. I've just never seen it done that way before, Detective.
Maybe I thought I could do more good here than there. I don't know. Look, it'd be great by me if we didn't start right off kicking each other in the balls. But, you're calling the shots, Lieutenant, so... however you want it to go.
Let me tell you how I want this to go. I want you to look, and I want you to listen.
I wasn't standing around guarding the local Taco Bell. I've worked homicide for five and a half years.
Not here.
I realize that.
Well, over the next seven days, do me the favor of remembering it.
I wonder what exactly was the point of the conversation you were about to get into?
And I wonder how many times Officer Davis there has found a dead man who wasn't really dead until Davis was in the car calling it in and eating a donut.
Drop it.
For now.
Who said this was murder?
No one yet.
Then, why are we wasting our time? This guy's heart's got to be roughly the size of a canned ham. If this isn't a coronary, I don't know what is.
When we found him, he was lying there with a knife in his back, so what else could it be but homicide? Except, I finally figured out... he held the knife behind him... put the tip of it in his own back and got real close to the wall... then he shoved his body backwards...
Please be quiet for a while, would you?
There's a bucket here.
What?
There's a bucket. Under the table.
It's a bucket of vomit.
Is there any blood in it?
I don't know. Feel free to look for yourself, okay?
You think it was poison?
Guessing at this point is useless.
You've seen my files, right? Seen the things I've done?
No.
Anyway... I did my time on doortodoors, and walking a beat. I did all that shit for a long time.
Good.
The badge in my pocket says "detective," same as yours.
I made a decision, because I have to consider the integrity of the scene. I can't worry whether you think you're getting enough time on the playing field.
Yeah, well, all I want is... Just, just don't be jerking me off. That's all I ask. Don't jerk me off.
Is that clear?
Okay... sure... It's just that, with my old partner, you know...
I just don't think we should have that sort of relationship. We'd start quarreling over insignificant things.
Same color and texture.
Have you found any plastic scrapings near the stove or sink? Near the food?
This doesn't make any sense.
You always have to find one singular thing to focus on. There's always one thing, and it may be as small as a speck of dust, but you find it and focus... till it's an exhausted possibility.
It could be nothing.
But, why would there be so many pieces in his stomach if it were nothing? It must have been intentional.
He ate his fill, and was forced to continue eating... till his body rejected the food. the killer held a bucket under him, and then kept serving. He took his time. The coroner says this might have gone on for more than twelve hours. The victim's throat was swollen from the effort, and there was probably a point where he passed out. That's when killer kicked him in the stomach. Popped him.
This was one sadistic motherfucker.
This is his stuff. I've been out in the cold all day.
This is a premeditated puzzle, and it's only the beginning.
I'm declining this case. I want us reassigned.
Whoa, whoa... what?!
It's too soon for him.
Can we talk about this in private?
It's a package deal. You get the phone with the office.
Detective Mills here. Honey... I asked you not to call me here. I'll call you back... What? Why?
It's my wife.
What?
Well?
I'm invited to have a late supper at your house. And, I accept.
How's that?
Tonight.
I'd like you to meet Somerset.
Hello.
All television does is teach children that it's really cool to be stupid and eat candy bars all day.
What about sports?
What about them?
You go to movies at least?
I read. Remember reading?
I just have to say, I can't respect any man who's never seen "Green Acres."
You've never seen "The Odd Couple?" This is sick. "The Honeymooners?!"
I vaguely recall a large, angry man, and someone called Norton.
Our guy got into office, probably before the building closed and security tightened up. Gould must have been working late.
I'm certain. He was the biggest defense lawyer around. Infamous, actually.
Well, his body was found Monday night, okay? But, get this... the office was closed all day Monday. Which means, as long as the gluttony killing was done before the weekend, our killer could've gotten in here on Friday. He could've spent all day Saturday with Gould, and all day Sunday.
The leather chair was soaked through with sweat.
All day Saturday, and all day Sunday. The murderer would want Gould to take his time. To have to sit there and decide. Where do you make the first cut? There's a gun in your face... but, what part of your body is expendable?
He cut along the side of his stomach. The love handle.
He must have left another puzzle piece.
Look, I appreciate being able to talk this out, but, uh...
This is just to satisfy my curiosity. I'm still leaving town Saturday.
Gould's wife. She was away on business. If this means she saw anything, I don't know what. We've questioned her at least five times.
And, if it's a threat.
We put her in a safe house.
He's preaching.
Punishing.
The sins were used in medieval sermons. There were seven cardinal virtues, and then seven deadly sins, created as a learning tool, because they distract from true worship.
Like in the Parson's Tale, and Dante.
Did you read them?
Yeah. Parts of them. Anyway, in Purgatory, Dante and his buddy are climbing up that big mountain... seeing all these other guys who sinned...
Seven Terraces of Purgation.
Right. But there, pride comes first, not gluttony. The sins are in a different order.
For now, let's just consider the books as the murderer's inspiration. The books and sermons are about atonement for sin. And, these murders have been like forced attrition.
Forced what?
Attrition. When you regret your sins, but not because you love God.
Like, because someone's holding a gun on you.
No fingerprints?
Nothing.
Totally unrelated victims.
No witnesses of any kind?
None. Which I don't understand. He had to get back out.
This is the one thing.
I know.
What if it's not that she's seen something? What if she's supposed to see something, but she just hasn't been given a chance to see it yet?
Okay. But, what?
You're sure your men didn't move this?
Even if they did, those photos were taken before forensics.
Nothing.
It's got to be.
What the fuck is that?
A switchblade.
There must be something.
We're screwed. He's fucking with us.
What?
Bear with me.
Oh, yeah, sure. You got to be kidding?!
Just wait!
Just, honestly... have you ever seen anything like this... been involved in anything like this?
No.
He just may be nuts enough.
It doesn't fit. He doesn't want us to help him stop.
Who the hell knows? There's plenty of freaks out there doing dirty deeds they don't want to do. You know... little voices tell them bad things.
You meant what you said to Mrs. Gould, didn't you? About catching this guy. You really want to believe that, don't you?
And you don't?
I wish I still thought like you.
Then, you tell me what you think we're doing.
All we do is pick up the pieces. We take all the evidence, and all the pictures and samples. We write everything down and note what time things happened...
Oh, that's all.
We put it in a nice neat pile and file it away, on the slim chance it's ever needed in a courtroom. It's like collecting diamonds on a desert island. You keep them just in case you ever get rescued, but it's a pretty big ocean out there.
Bullshit.
I'm, sorry, but even the most promising clues usually lead only to other clues. I've seen so many corpses rolled away... unrevenged.
I've seen the same. I'm not the country hick you seem to think I am.
In this city, if all the skeletons came out of all the closets... if ever hidden body were to suddenly rise again, there'd be no more room for the living.
Does this make it with you?
Doesn't seem like our man, does it?
You tell me. I'm new in town.
He doesn't have the desire somehow. Our killer seems to have more purpose. More purpose than Victor could ever conceive of.
The fingerprints.
Yes. They were there... so, it must be.
We'll tag along.
Why would we?
Satisfy our curiosity?
Never in my twentyfour years, knock on wood. I've only ever taken my gun out five times with the actual intention of using it. Never fired it though. Not once. You?
Never took a bullet. I pulled my gun once. fired it once.
And?
It was my first one of these. We were a secondary unit, and I was pretty shaky going in. I was still considered a rookie.
How did the fire fight end?
I got him. I got the sonofabitch. See, I was doing really good up till then. Lots of street busts. I've always had this weird luck... everything always went my way, but this was wild. I got him with one shot... right between the eyes. Next thing I know, the mayor's pinning a medal on me. Picture in the paper, whole nine yards.
How was it?
I expected it to be bad, you know. I took a human life... but I slept like a baby that night. I never gave it a second thought.
I think Hemingway wrote somewhere... I can't remember where, but he wrote that in order to live in a place like this, you have to have the ability to kill. I think he meant you truly must be able to do it, not just faking it, too survive.
Sounds like he knew what he was talking about.
It is Victor.
Call an ambulance.
The way this has gone till now, I wouldn't have thought it was possible, but we may have underestimated this guy.
I want him bad. I don't just want to catch him anymore. I want to hurt him.
Listen to me. He's all about playing games.
No kidding! No fucking kidding!
We have to divorce ourselves from emotions here. No matter how hard it is, we have to stay focused on the details.
I don't know about you, but I feed off my emotions.
He'll string us along all the way if we're not careful.
How do those cockroaches get here so quick?
They pay cops for the inside scoop, and they pay well.
Sorry about that... I just...
Oh, it's alright.
Victor's landlord says an envelope of cash was in the office mailbox each month. He says, quote, "I never heard a single complaint from the tenant in apartment threeoone, and nobody ever complained about him. He's the best tenant I've ever had.
A landlord's dream tenant: a paralyzed man with no tongue.
Who pays the rent on time.
I'm sick of sitting around, waiting for him to kill again.
This is the job. It's not an Easter egg hunt.
There must be something in this pile of garbage we can follow. I mean, Christ... do we have to let this lunatic make all the moves.
It's too dismissive to call him a lunatic. We can't make that mistake.
Oh, blah, blah, blah. The guy's insane.
It's a fine line between insane and inspired.
Hey, Freud, what brand of bullshit are you shoveling, huh? Right now he's probably dancing around his room in a pair of his mommy's panties, singing show tunes and rubbing himself with peanut butter...
No.
Sooner or later his luck's goning to run out.
No. He's not depending on luck. You've seen that. We walked into that apartment exactly one year after he first tied Victor to the bed, to the day. To the day! Because he wanted us to.
We don't know for sure...
Yes we do. Here...
This quote... his first words to us. I looked it up. It's from Milton's Paradise Lost. "Long is the way, and hard, that out of hell leads up to light... "
And so what?
Well, he's been right so far, hasn't he?
Just because the bastard has a library card, it doesn't make him Einstein.
Just, realize... this is not some common lunatic. The type of intestinal fortitude it must take... to keep a man bound for a full year. To connect tubes to his genitals. To sever his hand and use it to plant fingerprints. He's methodical and exacting, and worst of all, he's patient.
What does all that matter anyway? It's not our job to figure him out, is it? All we have to do is catching him.
How much money do you have?
I don't know... like fifty.
Well, that was money well spent.
Let's go.
By telling you this, I'm trusting you more than I trust most people.
It's be best if you got to the point, cause I'm about ready to punch you in the face.
It's probably nothing, but even if it is, it's no skin off our teeth. The man at Hot Dog World is a friend, in the Bureau.
Him?
For a long time, the F.B.I.'s been hooked into the library system, keeping accurate records.
What? Assessing fines?
They monitor reading habits. Not every book, but certain ones are flagged. Books about... let's say, how to build a nuclear bomb, or maybe Mein Kampf. Whoever takes out a flagged book has their library records fed to the F.B.I. from then on.
You got to be kidding.
Flagged books cover every topic the Bureau deems questionable... communism to violent crime.
How is this legal?
Legal... illegal. These terms don't apply. I don't applaud it.
So they ran our list.
If you want to know who's been reading Paradise Lost, Purgatory, and say... The Life and Time of Charlie Manson, the Bureau's computer will tell you. It might give us a name.
Yeah. Some college student who's taking English 101 and just happens to be writing a paper on Twentieth Century Crime.
Yeah, well... at least we're out of the office. We've got pizza.
How do you know all about this?
I don't. Neither do you.
This is a waste of time.
We're focusing.
I know, I know... focusing on one little thing.
The Divine Comedy. A History of Catholicism. A book called Murderers and Madmen.
Modern Homicide Investigation. In Cold Blood. Of Human Bondage. Human Bondage?
It's not what you think it is.
The Marquis de Sade and Origins of Sadism.
That is.
The Writings of Saint Thomas Aqu... Aquin...
Saint Thomas Aquinas. He wrote about the seven deadly sins.
You're sure you're reading that right? John Doe?
That's what it says. Jonathan Doe.
This is stupid. It'd be just too easy.
We'll take a look at him. Talk to him.
Sure. Uh, excuse me... are you by any chance a serial killer? Oh, you are? Well, come with us then, if it's okay.
What are you going to say?
You do the talking. Put that old silver tongue of yours to work.
Who told you about my silver tongue? You been talking to my wife?
Are you alright?
I'm fine.
What happened?
Wait... just wait.
It was him.
You can't go in there.
The hell I can't! We get in there and we can stop him.
We need a warrant.
We have probable cause now.
Think about it...
What the fuck is wrong with you?
Think about how we got here!
By the time we clear a warrant someone else is going to be dead.
Think it through. If we leave a hole like this, we'll never prosecute. He'll walk. We have to come up with some excuse for knocking on this door.
Okay... okay... get off.
You stupid son of a...
No point in arguing anymore...
What are you talking about?
We had him.
We could use about fifty more men here.
I'm trying, alright? Just tell me what we've got.
Well, there are at least five thousand notebooks in this room, and near as I can tell, each notebook contains two hundred and fifty pages.
Then, he must write about these murders.
"What sick, ridiculous, puppets we are, and what a gross, little stage we dance on. What fun we have, dancing and fucking, not a care in the world. Not knowing that we are nothing. We are not what was intended."
No dates indicated, placed on the shelves in no discernible order. It's just his mind poured out on paper. I don't think it's going to give us any specifics.
Looking around... I've got a bad feeling these murders are his life's work.
He's preaching.
These murders are his masterwork. His sermon to all of us. To all us sinners.
The irony is, after a day of the type of work he did, he'd come home and read me these morbid crime stories. Murders in the Rue Morgue. Le Fanu's Green Tea. My mother would give him hell because he was keeping me up till all hours.
Sounds like a father who wanted his son to follow in his footsteps.
One birthday he gave me this brand new hardcover book, "The Century of the Detective," by Jurgen Thorwald. It traced the history of deduction as a science, and it sealed my fate, because it was real, not fiction. And, that a drop of blood or a piece of hair could solve a crime... it was incredible to me.
You know... there's not going to be a happy ending to this. It's not possible anymore.
If we get him, I'll be happy enough.
No. Face it now. Stop thinking it's good guys against bad guys.
How can you say that? Especially after today?
Don't try to focus on things as black and white, because you'll go blind. There's no winning and losing here.
You're the oldest man I know, Somerset.
You tell me, then... you walk into an apartment, and a man has beaten his wife to death, or the wife murdered the husband, and you have to wash the blood off their children. You put the killer in jail. Who won?
You do your job...
Where's the victory?
You follow the law and do the best you can. It's all there.
Just know that in this case there's not going to be any satisfaction. If we caught John Doe and he were the devil himself, if it turned out he were actually Satan, then, that might live up to our expectations. No human being could do these things, right? But, this is not the devil. It's just a man.
Why don't you shut the fuck up for a while? You bitch and complain... if I thought like you, I would have slit my wrist already.
You think you're preparing me for the hard times ahead? You think you're toughening me up? Well, you're not! You're quitting, fine... but I'm staying.
People don't want a champion. They just want to keep playing the lottery and eating hamburgers.
What the fuck is wrong with you? What burnt you out?
It wasn't one thing, if that's what you mean. I just... I can't live here anymore. I can't live where stupidity is embraced and nurtured as if it were a virtue.
Oh, you're so much better than everyone, right? No one's worthy of you.
Wrong! I sympathize completely, because if you can't win... then, if you don't ignore everything and everyone around you, you... you become like John Doe. It's easier to beat a child than it is to raise it, because it takes so much work to love. You just have to make sure you don't stop to think about the abuse, and the damage, because you'll risk being sad. Keep ignoring.
You're talking about people who are mentally ill. You're...
No I'm not! I'm talking about common, everyday life here. If you let yourself worry about one thing, you'll worry about the next, and the next, and it never ends. In this place, ignorance isn't just bliss, it's a matter of survival.
Listen to yourself. You say, "the problem with people is they don't care, so I don't care about people." But, you're already here. You've been here a long time. So, there's a part of you that knows, even if everything you say is true, none of it matters.
That part of me is dead.
He cut her up and dressed the wounds.
Call for help, and you'll live. But, you'll be disfigured. Or, put yourself out of your misery.
Oh, you want to stay now?
One of two things will happen. We're either going to get John Doe, or he'll finish his series of seven, and this case will go on for years.
You think you're doing me a big favor by staying?
I'm requesting you keep me on as your partner a few more days. You'd be doing me the favor.
You knew I'd say yes.
No, actually, I wasn't sure at all.
As soon as this is over, I'm gone.
Big surprise.
Because he is John Doe, by choice.
When do we get to question him?
You know he's fucking us.
You and I are, probably for the first time ever, in total agreement. He wouldn't just stop.
Well... what the fuck, man?
He's only two murders away from finishing his masterpiece, right? Can you even conceive of what's going to happen next? I mean, can you even imagine how he'll try to finish it?
No.
I can tell you this. I recognize his lawyer. His name's Mark Swarr.
If John Doe's head splits open and a U.F.O. flies out, I want you to have expected it.
I will.
What is it?
Well, I have to tell you... I think I've fallen in love with you.
Slut.
Kiss me on the lips.
Give me a break.
Stay with him.
Wait!
There's no time to discuss it!
Throw your gun down now!
What are you talking about? What happened?
Throw your weapon, detective! Now!
What did you say?
Tell me it's not true.
I can't let you do this...
Put your gun down!!
Don't do this... please...
Put the gun down, Somerset!
Where we headed?
You'll see.
We're not just going to pick up two more bodies, are we, Johnny? That wouldn't be... shocking enough. Wouldn't keep you on the front page of the newspapers.
Wanting people to pay attention, you can't just tap them on the shoulder. You have to hit them in the head with a sledgehammer. Then, you have their strict attention.
What makes you so special that people should pay attention?
Not me. I'm not special. I'm not exceptional. This is, though. What I'm doing.
I hate to burst your bubble, but other than the fact that you're especially sadistic, there's nothing unusual about these precious murders of yours.
You know that's not true.
In two months, no one's going to even remember this happened.
You can't see the whole... the whole complete act yet. Not yet. But, when this is done, it's going to be... so... so...
Spit it out.
It's going to be flawless. People will barely be able to comprehend it. It will seem almost surreal... but it will have a tangible reality, so they won't be able to deny it.
I can't wait for you to see. I can't wait... It's really going to be something.
Well, I'll be standing beside you the whole time, so you be sure to let me know when this whole, complete reality thing is done. Wouldn't want to miss it.
Oh, don't worry. You won't...
I... I doubt I enjoyed it any more than... Detective Mills would enjoy some time alone with me in a room without windows. Isn't that true? How happy would it make you to hurt me, with impunity?
Now... I wouldn't do something like that, Johnny. I like you. I like you a lot.
You wouldn't because you know there are consequences. It's in those eyes of yours, though... nothing wrong with a man taking pleasure in his work. I won't deny my own personal desire to turn each sin against the sinner. I only took their sins to logical conclusions.
You only killed a bunch of innocent people so you could get your rocks off. That's all.
Innocent? Is that supposed to be funny? Look at the people I killed. An obese man, a disgusting man who could barely stand up... who if you saw him on the street, you'd point so your friends could mock him along with you. Who if you saw him while you were eating, you wouldn't be able to finish your meal. After him I picked the lawyer. And, you both must have been secretly thanking me for that one. This was a man who dedicated his life to making money by lying with every breath he could muster... to keeping rapists and murderers on the streets.
Murderers?
A woman...
Murderers like you?
A woman... so ugly on the inside that she couldn't bare to go on living if she couldn't be beautiful on the outside. A drug dealer... a drug dealing pederast, actually. And, don't forget the disease spreading whore. Only in a world this shitty could you even try to say these were innocent people and keep a straight face. That's the point. You see a deadly sin on almost every street corner, and in every home, literally. And we tolerate it. Because it's common, it seems trivial, and we tolerate, all day long, morning, noon and night. Not anymore. I'm setting the example, and it's going to be puzzled over and studied and followed, from now on.
Delusions of grandeur.
You should be thanking me.
And, why is that?
You're going to be remembered, and it's all because of me. And, the only reason I'm here right now is because I wanted to be.
We would have gotten you eventually.
Really? Just biding your time, then? Toying with me. Is that it? Letting five people die until you finally felt like going out and hauling me in?
Tell me what it was that gave me away. What was the piece of evidence you were going to use against me right before I walked up to YOU and put my hands in the air.
I seem to remember knocking on your door.
And, I remember breaking your nose. You're only alive because I didn't kill you.
Sit back.
Just keep leading the way.
It's close.
I wish I could have been a normal man like you. I wish I could have a simple life.
What the fuck is going on here?!
You've made a good life for yourself...
Shut up!
Here he comes.
What the fuck is going on?
I want you to know, I wish I could have lived like you do.
Somerset...
Because I envy your normal life. Envy is my sin.
I don't believe it.
Hello.
What do you mean?
I mean, at this point, what would it hurt if you told us a little about yourself?
It doesn't matter who I am. Who I am means absolutely nothing. You need to turn left here... at the traffic light.
What's so exciting?
It's not too far away now.
What time is it?
Why?
It's surprising how easily a member of the press can purchase information from the men in your precinct.
David... please...
I visited your home this morning, after you left.
Give me the gun.
Her pretty head.
You didn't know.
NO!
Jesus Christ, man, don't shoot me!
Turn around. Hands on your head!
What the hell's going on?
Who are you? What are you doing out here?
I'm... I'm just delivering a package.
This guy paid me five hundred bucks to bring it out here. He wanted it here at exactly seven o'clock.
Put it down. Put it on the ground.
Okay...
And... and... and he said... he asked me if I was married. And, I could see he had a gun in his hand.
Where was the girl?
What? What?
Where was the prostitute? Where was she?
She was... she was on the bed. She was just sitting on the bed.
Who tied her down? You or him?
He had a gun. He had a gun... and he made it happen. He made me do it! He made me put that... that thing on. Oh, Christ! He made me wear it... and... and he told me to fuck her. He had the gun in my mouth.
"Dear Detectives, Long is the way, and hard, that out of hell leads up to light." It's the murderer's way of announcing himself.
Announcing what?
There are seven deadly sins. Gluttony, wrath, greed...
So what? This victim...
... envy, sloth, pride and lust. Seven.
Hey, so gluttony is one of the seven deadly sins. But, this was a fat guy. The killer may have felt this was the just best way to torture him. And, writing on the walls happens all the time. It's like the fashionable thing to do.
One is gluttony.
What's this: "I'm declining this case?" It don't work that way.
This can't be my last duty here. It will go on and on.
I know what you're thinking, okay? You don't want to get in bed with this every night, but it's different now. You're retiring. In six days you're all the way gone.
You've left unfinished business before.
Everything else was taken as close to conclusion as humanly possible. Also... this shouldn't be his first assignment.
Have you heard?
No, I haven't heard.
There was a second.
Already.
Greed. It was written in blood.
It's none of my business anymore.
I thought you might want to be filled in.
I'm sure everyone's doing their best.
Yeah.
Good.
Come on. What are you going to do with yourself out there?
I'll get a job, maybe on a farm. I'll work on the house.
Can't you feel it yet? Can't you feel that feeling... ? You're not going to be a cop anymore.
What are you talking about?
You know.
Did you read in the paper today, about the man who was walking his dog? he was attacked, and his wallet and his watch were taken. And then, while he was still lying unconscious, his attacker stabbed him with a knife in both eyes. It happened four blocks from here.
I heard.
I have no understanding of this place anymore.
It's always been like this.
Really?
Well, there he sits. It's not supposed to make sense.
He's not finished.
How you feeling?
I can breathe withour pain now, so I guess I feel great.
Thank you. Tell them, thank you.
We figure you need all the tools you can get to fix up that piece of shit you call a house.
Yeah, that's true.
They're hoping you stop and say goodbye before you go, but I told them not to expect it.
It would be too hard.
He's being arraigned tomorrow.
I read about it in the paper.
I guess... decide for yourself. I don't know what it says. I'm going to go.
I'll see you.
I don't have anyone else to give this to, Somerset, you know that. And nobody's going to swap with you.
Give it to me.
How's that?
There's nothing that says I have to work with him. If Somerset wants out, "goodbye." Give it to me.
That's not necessary. You're in.
Thank you.
Go start picking up the pieces. We'll shuffle some paper and try to get you a new partner.
He cuts off the skin if his fingertips. That's why we can't find a single usable print in the apartment. He's been doing it for quite a while. Keeps cutting before the papillary line can grow back.
What about the trace on his bank account and the guns? There must be something to connect him with a past.
So far it's all dead ends. No credit history. No employment history. His bank account's only five years old and it started as cash. We're even trying to trace his furniture, but for now all we know is he's independently wealth, well educated and totally insane. We may never know how he got that way.
You don't. It goes to court now.
He wouldn't just turn himself in. It doesn't make any sense.
He's pissing in our faces again and we're just taking it.
You're wound too tight, Mills. Let it go.
How is it working for a scumbag like this? You proud of yourself?
Ease back, Mills.
What do you think?
I'm in.
Hunt? Why would they ask if you like to hunt?
I don't know, they just did.
Because there's no way a girl could have killed them.
That is so sexist. The killer could easily be female  BASIC INSTINCT.
I thought you dumped her for me.
I did. He's full of shit.
You know if I were accused of carving up two people, I'd take the opportunity to skip school.
Hey, go easy, Tatum. He didn't do it.
Is this not cool or what? Hey, Sid, what happened?
For once, Stu, drop it.
Okay, but whatever you did  the entire student body thanks you.
That's mature.
Where you guys been? We had to start without you.
With that set of lungs  she should be.
Tits  see.
I got it. Tatum get me a beer. They're in the fridge in the garage.
What am I? The beer wench?
Hey, guess who's here? It's that chick from INSIDE STORY?
Do you believe this shit?
What happened?
Oh God! You don't know? Casey Becker and Steve Forrest were killed last night.
No way.
And not just killed, Sid. We're talking splatter movie killedsplit open end to end.
Casey Becker? She sits next to me in English.
Not anymore. Her parents found her hanging from a tree. Her insides on the outside.
Do they know who did it?
Fucking clueless  they're interrogating the entire school. Teachers, students, staff, janitors...
They think it's schoolrelated?
They don't know. Dewey said this is the worst crime they've ever seen. Even worse than... Well it's bad. They're bringing in the feds. This is big.
Or a man's mentality.
How do you gut someone?
You sure I can stay over? My dad won't be back til Sunday.
No prob. I'll pick you up after practice.
Tell your mom I said thanks.
Yeah, yeah... are you okay?
Uhhuh, it's just... you know, the police and reporters... it brings it all back.
I'll be there by seven. I promise
Thanks, Tatum.
Later.
Practice ran late. I'm on my way.
It's past seven.
Don't worry. Casey and Steve didn't bite it til way after ten.
I'm not worried.
Good, 'cause I wanna swing by BLOCKBUSTER and get us a video. I was thinkin' Tom Cruise in ALL THE RIGHT MOVES. You know, if you pause it just right you can see his penis.
Whatever. Just hurry.
Bye.
It's okay. She was supposed to pick me up.
Her dad's out of town. She's staying with us.
Just another sleepover at the Riley's.
Just like old times, ain't it?
No, nothing's like it used to be.
Do you really think Billy did it?
He was there, Tatum.
I knew this guy was too perfect. He was destined to have a flaw.
Take a message.
It's alright. I'll get it.
Come on, Sid.
Just a sec... I need to talk to someone.
Just relax. You're at school now. No one can get you here.
But if it wasn't Billy it could be anybody. He could be here at school right now.
This is a mistake. I shouldn't be here.
I want you to meet me here right after class, okay?
Shit, what is he doing here?
I bet he's pissed.
Just ignore him. You had good reason to think what you did.
It was just some sick fuck having a laugh.
It was him, Tatum. I know it.
This could be good. What do you think, Sid?
I don't know...
Come on. Pathos has it's perks.
Maybe Cotton Weary is telling the truth. Maybe he was having an affair with your mom.
So you think my mom was a slut too?
I didn't say that, Sid. But you know there were rumors. Your dad was always out of town on business. Maybe your mom was a very unhappy woman.
If they were having an affair how come that Cotton couldn't prove it in court?
You can't prove a rumor. That's why it's a rumor.
Created by that little tabloid twit Gale Weathers.
It goes further back, Sid. There's been talk about other men.
And you believe it?
Well... you can only hear that Richard Geregerbil story so many times before you have to start believing it.
If I was wrong Cotton, then he's still out there.
Don't go there, Sid. You're starting to sound like some Wes Carpenter flick. Don't freak yourself out  we've got a long night ahead of us.
You're right. I'm cracking up. Ignore me.
Come on, let's rock.
Hey, Sid. Just think if they make a movie about you. Who's gonna play you?
Oh, god...
Is Billy going to be there tonight?
He better not be. I told Stu to keep his mouth shut. I think we can live without EVERYBODY'S ALL AMERICAN for one night.
Billy's right. Whenever he touches me, I just can't relax.
You have a few intimacy issues as a result of your mother's untimely death. It's no big deal. You'll thaw out.
But he's been so patient with me, Tatum. You know, with all the sex stuff. How many guys would put up with a girlfriend who's sexually anorexic?
Billy and his penis don't deserve you.
What do you think about when you're having sex?
With Stu, there's little time to stop and reflect. But sometimes before, to relax and get in the mood, I think about Grant Goodeve.
Who?
Grant Goodeve  the oldest brother on EIGHT IS ENOUGH. Remember that show? He was the one who lived off alone. He would come around every now and then with his guitar and sing "Eight is enough to fill our lives with love..." He had all these brain dead sisters and that idiot brother from CHARLES IN CHARGE. God, I was in love with Grant, he was so hot. The show came on every day after school right during my puberty years. Grant Goodeve was very instrumental in my maturing as a woman.
How does that get you in the mood with Stu?
During foreplay, I sing the theme song to myself. "Eight is enough to fill our lives with love..." It's a real turn on.
No way.
Grant wrote the song himself. I'm convinced the lyrics had a secret meaning, "Eight is enough..."
What secret meaning? Like a Satanical thing?
Watch the show, Sid. His basket is bigger than the one you're pushing.
TATUM!
Oh, Sidney. WHAT? A guy can talk tits til he's dead but the minute you mention an eight inch weenie. Watch out.
There's that sense of humor. I knew it still existed. Ohh, Sid, let's have some fun tonight.
Deal.
You heard Billy  shut the fuck up.
Hey, Stu? Didn't you use to date Casey?
Why are they doing this?
Are you kidding? This is like Christmas.
And to celebrate this impromptu fall break, I propose we have a party. Tonight, my house.
Are you serious?
My parents are out of town. It'll be like my hurricane bash last year. Nothing extreme. Just a few of us, hangin'.
Remember, there's safety in numbers.
Yeah, okay... whatever.
Cool. See you guys tonight. Bring food.
If Tatum sees you  she'll draw blood.
You guys can go up to my parents room? To talk and... whatever.
Guess, I won't be needing this anymore.
Why are you doing this?
It's all part of the game.
You're crazy  both of you.
The official term is "psychotic".
You'll never get away with this.
So Stu, what's your motive? Billy's got one. The police are on their way. What are you going to tell them?
Peer pressure... I'm way to sensitive.
That was an ice pick  not exactly the same.
Yeah, Casey and Steve were completely hollowed out. Takes a man to do something like that.
For about two seconds.
Before she dumped him for Steve.
And are the police aware you dated the victim?
What are you saying? That I killed her or something?
It would certainly improve your high school Q.
Besides  "Takes a man to do something like that."
I'm gonna gut your ass in a second.
Did you really put her liver in the mailbox? I hear they found her liver in the mailbox.
Jesus, this place is packed.
We had a run in the mass murder section.
You coming tonight?
Yeah, I'm off early  curfew you know. Now that's poor taste.
What?
If you were the only suspect in a senseless bloodbath would you be standing in the horror section?
It was all a misunderstanding. He didn't do anything.
You're such a little lap dog. He's got killer printed all over his forehead.
The why'd the police let him go?
Because, obviously they don't watch enough movies. This is standard horror movie stuff. PROM NIGHT revisited.
Why would he want to kill his own girlfriend?
There's always some stupid bullshit reason to kill your girlfriend. That's the beauty of it all. Simplicity. Besides, if it's too complicated you lose your target audience.
So what's his reason?
Maybe Sidney wouldn't have sex with him.
She's saving herself for you.
Could be. Now that Billy's tried to mutilate her, you think Sid would go out with me?
I think her father did it. How come they can't find his ass?
Because he's probably dead. His body will come popping out in the last reel somewhere... eyes gauged. See, the police are always off track with this shit, if they'd watch PROM NIGHT they'd save time. There's formula to it. A very simple one. Everyone's always a suspect  the father, the principal, the town derelict...
Which is you...
So while they're off investigating a dead end, Billy, who's been written off as a suspect, is busy planning his next hunting expedition.
You're absolutely right. I'm the first to admit it. If this were a scary movie, I'd be the prime suspect.
And what would be your motive?
It's 1995  motives are incidental.
I thought everything was checked out.
I had 'em hid in the foreign section.
We could be like two grief stricken students and we'll say really nice things about our good friends who were slaughtered senselessly.
I can cry on cue.
What's Leatherface doing here?
He came to make up.
There goes my chance with Sid.
Like you had one.
I wanna see Jamie Lee's breasts. When do we see Jamie Lee's breasts?
Not until TRADING PLACES in '83. Jamie Lee was always the virgin in horror movies. She didn't show her tits until she went legit.
There are certain rules that one must abide by in order to successfully survive a horror movie. For instance: 1. You can never have sex. The minute you get a little nookie  you're as good as gone. Sex always equals death. 2. Never drink or do drugs. The sin factor. It's an extension of number one. And 3. Never, ever, ever, under any circumstances, say "I'll be right back."
Wanna another beer?
Yeah.
I'll be right back.
His movie nut mind has snapped, Sid. He's gone psycho.
Don't listen to him. It's him. He's the one.
Come on, Sid. Give me the gun.
No, Sid.
THE FOG, TERROR TRAIN, PROM NIGHT  How come Jamie Lee Curtis is in all these movies?
She's the Scream Queen.
Stop. Right there.
Don't shoot. It's me.
Don't come any closer.
Listen to me, Sid. I found Tatum. She's dead, she's been killed... I think Stu did it.
Only if it's a nice Meg Ryan movie.
You got it.
Stu was with me last night.
Oooooh... before or after he sliced and diced.
Fuck you, nut case. Where were you last night?
Working, thank you.
I thought Blockbuster fired you.
Twice.
Are you okay?
Can you knock?
I heard screaming.
No you didn't.
No? Oh, well... I'm hitting the sack. My flight leaves first thing in the morning. Now the expo runs all weekend so I won't be back til Sunday. There's cash on the table and I'll be staying at the Raleigh Hilton...
...out at the airport...
...so call if you need me.
Got it.
Have a good trip.
Sleep tight, sweetie.
I have no idea.
Scary night, isn't it? With the murders and all, it's like right out of a horror movie or something.
Aha, Randy, you gave yourself away. Are you calling from work? Tatum's on her way over.
Do you like scary movies, Sidney?
I like that thing you're doing with your voice, Randy. It's sexy.
What's your favorite scary movie?
Don't start. You know I don't watch that shit.
And why is that?
Because they're all the same. It's always some stupid killer stalking some big breasted girl  who can't act  who always runs up the stairs when she should be going out the front door. They're ridiculous.
Are you alone in the house?
That is so unoriginal. You disappoint me, Randy.
Maybe that's because I'm not Randy.
So who are you?
The question is not who am I. The question is where am I?
So where are you?
Your front porch.
Why would you call me from my front porch?
That's the original part.
So where are you?
Right here.
Can you see me right now?
Uhhuh.
What am I doing?
Good try, Randy. Tell Tatum to hurry. Bye now.
If you hang up, you'll die just like your mother.
Hello?
Hello Sidney.
Poor Billyboyfriend. An innocent guy doesn't stand a chance with you.
LEAVEMEALONE!
Looks like you fingered the wrong guy... again.
Who are you?
She was never attacked. I think she made it all up.
Why would she lie about it?
For attention. The girl has some serious issues.
What if she did it? What if Sidney killed Casey and Steve?
And why would she do that?
Maybe she was hot for Steve and killed them both in a jealous rage.
Why would Sidney want to be with Steve? She has her own bubblebutt boyfriend Billy.
Maybe she's a slut just like her mom.
You're evil.
Please, it's common knowledge. Her mother was a trollop.
Cut some slack. She watched her mom get butchered.
And it fucked her up royally. Think about it. It makes perfect sense. Her mom's death leaves her distraught and hostile at a cruel and inhumane world, she's disillusioned, where's God, etc. Completely suicidal. And one day she snaps. She wants to kill herself but realizes teen suicide is out this year. And homicide is a much healthier therapeutic expression.
Where do you get this shit?
Ricki Lake.
It's okay, Tatum. She's just doing her job. Right, GALE?
Yes, that's right.
How's the book?
It'll be out later this year.
I'll look for it.
I'll send you a copy.
I'm not here to fight.
Just stay back.
I want to talk to you.
Kenny. Camera. Now.
Off the record. No cameras.
Forget it.
Please. You owe me.
I owe you shit.
You owe my mother.
Your mother's murder was last year's hottest court case. Somebody was gonna write a book about it.
And it had to be you with all your lies and bullshit theories.
What is your problem? You got what you wanted. Cotton Weary is in jail. They're gonna gas him. A book is not gonna change that.
Do you still think he's innocent?
He was convicted in a court of law. Your testimony put him away. It doesn't matter what I think.
During the trial, you did all those stories about me. You called me a liar.
I think you falsely identified him. Yes.
Have you talked to Cotton?
Many times.
Has his story changed?
Not one word. He admits to having sex with your mother but that's all.
He's lying. She wouldn't have touched him. He raped her, then butchered her. Her blood was all over his coat.
He was drunk that night. He left his coat at your house, after your mother seduced him...
I saw him leaving wearing it.
But couldn't it have been someone else you saw wearing that coat? The same person who planted it in Cotton's car, framing him? The same person who really killed your mother?
What? What?
Jesus! The camerahurry!
Jesus Christ! An innocent man on death row. A killer still on the loose. Kenny, tell me I'm dreaming.
You want to go live?
No, not so fast. We have nothing concrete.
When did that ever stop you? You can't sit on this. This is huge.
If I'm gonna blow this up  I need hard proof.
But it's so much easier when we make it up.
Not this time. I owe Cotton that much. Hell, even I thought that man was guilty.
What's the plan?
Prep the compact, we'll hide it in a window and tape all of tonight's festivities.
The control board's glitched. You know we can't carry a live picture.
What's the delay?
About thirty seconds.
As long as it records I don't give a shit. We're not doing a remote.
That fish smelled strong.
I told you to send it back.
Jesus...
What is it? Where's Casey?
Casey? Casey?
Where is she?
Call the police.
Casey? Where are you honey? Call the police, goddamnit.
The phone's dead.
Where is she?
I can hear her. Oh Mother of God, I can hear her.
Casey! Casey!
Not my daughter... not my...
It's Deputy Riley today, Sid.
How is everything?
We got him, Sheriff. Billy Loomis.
Hank Loomis' kid? Aw... Jesus...
He's her boyfriend.
I was first to respond.
What were you doing out here?
Drive by patrol.
How is she?
She's tough.
Have to be. The shit she's gone through.
That ghost mask is sold at both Kroger's and WalMart. Neither of which keep purchase records.
What about the cellular phone bill?
They're pulling Loomis' account. But it'll be morning before we see something. You think he did it?
Twenty years ago I woulda said not a chance. But these kids today... damn if I know.
She staying with you?
We haven't located her Dad yet.
She's okay. Looks like some boys were teasing her. Himbry's shutting down the school though. I want you to take look around.
Yes, sir, sheriff.
Dewey! Where the hell you been, boy?
Keeping my eye on Sidney.
Listen up, Dewey, because it's bad. Real bad. Aircomp just faxed us. The calls were listed to Neil Prescott  Sidney's father. He made the calls with his cellular phone. It's confirmed.
Couldn't his cellular number have been cloned?
There's more. Guess what tomorrow is? The anniversary of his wife's death. It all fits. He's our man.
Have you contacted the bureau?
They believe he's out of state by now. We'll keep roadblocks and curfew in effect through the night. If he's not picked up by morning  we'll do a house to house.
You think he could still be in town?
He'd have to be crazy. Where's Sidney?
She's with my sister. Should I bring her in?
Hold off for now. Just stay close to her.
She'll be with her friends over at Stu Maker's tonight.
Watch her. Don't let on  just keep your eyes out.
Yes, sir.
You gonna be able to come down to the station and talk to us a bit?
...yeah...
Did you reach my Dad?
You're sure it was the Hilton?
At the airport.
He's not registered. Could he have gone to another hotel?
I don't know. I guess.
We'll find him, Sid. Don't worry.
Any word on my Dad?
Not yet, but we're looking. If you need anything...
Billy was released. His cellular bill was clean. He didn't make those calls.
Somebody called me, Dewey. I'm not making it up.
I know. We're checking every cellular account in the county. Any calls made to you or Casey Becker are being crossreferenced. It's gonna take time but we'll find him.
And my Dad? Any word on him?
God, look at this place, it's THE TOWN THAT DREADED SUNDOWN.
Hey, I saw that movie. True story, 'bout some killer in Texas.
I see you as a young Meg Ryan myself.
Thanks, Dewey. But with my luck they'd cast Tori Spelling.
You girls ready.
Yeah.
Looks like I'm your personal bodyguard tonight, Sid.
Have they found my father?
Afraid not.
Should I be worried?
Not yet.
What are you doing here?
Oh, God, Sid, I'm sorry I was late.
You can't be here, Tatum. This is an official crime scene.
Does mom know?
Yes, you doofus.
Hey... Dewey. Can we go now?
Hold up a sec...
What did Mama tell you? When I wear this badge you treat me like a man of the law.
I'm sorry, Deputy Deweyboy but we're ready to go.
A party? Mom's gonna kill you. Then me.
Don't be so selfrighteous. It's just a little blow out  we'll be perfectly safe.
No, Dewey. You'll ruin the whole night.
Sorry, police orders. I'll stay out of the way, I promise.
Shit.
What is she doing here?
She's with me. I just wanted to check on things.
Hi! Gale Weathers. Field Correspondent, INSIDE STORY.
I know who you are, ma'am. How's the eye?
Productive. So they're closing down the school?
Well... uh... yes ma'am. For the time being.
And why is that? Has something happened?
You're not supposed to be here, ma'am.
I know, I should be in New York covering the Sharon Stone stalker but who knew? Please, call me Gale. You look awfully young to be a police officer.
I'm twentyfive years old, ma'am.
Twentyfive, huh? In a demographic study I proved to be most popular amongst males, 1124. I just missed you. Of course, you don't look a day over twelve, except in the upper torso area. Does the force require that you work out?
Boy, you people sure do make fuss over a serial killer.
Serial killer is not really accurate, ma'am. The killer has yet to strike twice.
Well, we can hope, can't we? We certainly don't have any leads. A ghost mask, a cellular phone  not much there.
We're tracking the cellular phone bill.
Really? You small town guys are good. And have you located Sidney's father?
No, not yet.
He's not a suspect, is he?
We haven't ruled out that possibil...
If you'll excuse me, ma'am.
Am I keeping you? I'm sorry.
That's quite alright. If I may say so, ma'am, you're much prettier in person.
I just turned 25. I was 24 for a whole year.
You are precious. Please, call me Gale.
Evening, ma'am.
Deputy... good evening.
What brings you out to these parts?
You never know when or where a story will break.
Not much story here. Just a bunch of kids cutting loose.
Then what are you doing here?
Keeping an eye on things. Checking the place out.
Mind if I join you?
Sheriff just radioed me. I'm gonna check out a possible lead. Thought you might like to join me.
What kind of lead?
A car was spotted in the bushes a little ways up the road.
I'd love to. If you're sure it's alright?
Ma'am, I am the Deputy of this town.
Can I bring Kenny?
NO! I mean... I should probably take just you.
So is Dewey your real name?
Dwight. Dewey was something I got stuck with a long time ago.
I like it. It's... sexy.
Nah... it's just this town's way of not taking me serious.
What about Gale Weathers? I sound like a meteorologist...
People treat me like the Antichrist of television journalism.
I don't think you're so bad.
Shit. It's Neil Prescott's car.
Sidney's father?
We gotta get back. Jesus. He's here. What the fuck is he doing here?
I'll call for backup.
I'll get my camera.
Yes.
Who is this?
Who are you trying to reach?
What number is this?
What number are you trying to reach?
I don't know.
I think you have the wrong number.
Do I?
It happens. Take it easy.
Hello.
I'm sorry. I guess I dialed the wrong number.
So why did you dial it again?
To apologize.
You're forgiven. Bye now.
Wait, wait, don't hang up.
What?
I want to talk to you for a second.
They've got 900 numbers for that. Seeya.
Hello.
Why don't you want to talk to me?
Who is this?
You tell me your name, I'll tell you mine.
I don't think so.
What's that noise?
Popcorn.
You're making popcorn?
Uhhuh.
I only eat popcorn at the movies.
I'm getting ready to watch a video.
Really? What?
Just some scary movie.
Do you like scary movies?
Uhhuh.
What's your favorite scary movie?
I don't know.
You have to have a favorite.
Uh... HALLOWEEN. You know, the one with the guy with the white mask who just sorta walks around and stalks the baby sitters. What's yours?
Guess.
Uh... NIGHTMARE ON ELM STREET.
Is that the one where the guy had knives for fingers?
Yeah... Freddy Krueger.
Freddy  that's right. I liked that movie. It was scary.
The first one was, but the rest sucked.
So, you gotta boyfriend?
Why? You wanna ask me out?
Maybe. Do you have a boyfriend?
No.
You never told me your name.
Why do you want to know my name?
Because I want to know who I'm looking at.
What did you say?
I want to now who I'm talking to.
That's not what you said.
What do you think I said?
I have to go now.
Wait... I thought we were gonna go out.
Nah, I don't think so...
Don't hang up on me.
Gotta go.
Don't...
Yes?
I told you not to hang up on me.
What do you want?
To talk.
Dial someone else, okay?
You getting scared?
Nobored.
Listen, asshole...
NO, YOU LISTEN, YOU LITTLE BITCH. IF YOU HANG UP ON ME AGAIN I'LL GUT YOU LIKE A FISH. UNDERSTAND?
Is this some kind of a joke?
More of a game, really.
I'm two seconds from calling the police.
They'd never make it in time.
What do you want?
TO SEE WHAT YOUR INSIDES LOOK LIKE.
Look, enough is enough. You had your fun now you better leave me alone or else.
Or else what?
My boyfriend will be here any second and he'll be pissed when I tell him...
I thought you didn't have a boyfriend.
I lied. I do have a boyfriend and he'll be here any second and your ass better be gone.
Sure...
I swear it. And he's big and plays football and will beat the shit out of you.
I'm getting scared.
I'm telling you the truth. I lied before...
I believe you...
So you better leave.
His name wouldn't be Steve, would it?
How do you know his name?
Go to the back door and turn on the porch light  again.
Where are you?
Guess.
Please don't hurt him.
That all depends on you.
Why are you doing this?
I wanna play a game.
No...
Then he dies. Right now.
NOOO!
Which is it?
What kind of game?
Turn off the light.
Please don't do this...
Come on. It'll be fun.
No... please.
It's an easy category. Movie trivia.
...please...
I'll even give you a warm up question.
Don't do this. I can't...
Name the killer in HALLOWEEN.
No...
Come on. It's you favorite scary movie, remember? He had a white mask, he stalked the babysitters.
I don't know...
Come on, yes you do.
Please..stop...
What's his name?
I can't think.
Michael... Michael Myers.
YES!
Now for the real question.
NOOOO....
But you're doing so well.
Please go away! Leave us alone!
Then answer the question. Same category.
...please... no...
Name the killer in FRIDAY THE 13TH.
I'm sorry. That's the wrong answer.
No it's not. It was Jason.
Afraid not.
It was Jason. I saw that goddamned movie twenty times. It was Jason.
Then you should know Jason's MOTHER  Mrs. Vorhees was the original killer. Jason didn't show up until the sequel.
You tricked me...
Lucky, for you there's a bonus round. But poor Steve... I'm afraid... he's out.
...leave me alone... please...
Answer the question and I will.
What door am I at?
What?
There are two doors to your house. A front door and a back one. If you answer correctly  you live.
Don't make me... I can't... I won't.
Your call.
Billy? What the...
I'm sorry. Don't hate me.
What are you doing here?
You sleep in THAT?
My dad's in the other room.
I'll only stay a sec.
Close call.
What are you doing here?
It just occurred to me that I've never snuck through your bedroom window.
Now that it's out of your system.
And I was home, bored, watching television, THE EXORCIST was on and it got me thinking of you.
Oh it did?
Yeah, it was edited for TV. All the good stuff was cut out and I started thinking about us and how two years ago, we started off kinda hot and heavy, a nice solid "R" rating on our way to an NC17. And how things have changed and, lately, we're just sot of... edited for television.
So you thought you could sneak in my window and we would have a little bumpbump.
No, no. I wouldn't dream of breaking your underwear rule. I just thought we might do some on top of the clothes stuff.
You know what my dad will do to you?
I'm going... I'm going.
Would you settle for a PG13 relationship?
What's that?
Oh Billy... Please... God...
I heard screaming. The door was locked. Are you okay...
He's here. He's trying to kill me...
Jesus, SHIT!
Hey, hey, it's just me.
No... I don't... it's just... Oh God, Billy, someone was there, someone tried to kill me.
The police say I scared him off. It wasn't me, Sid.
I know. He called again last night at Tatum's house.
See, it couldn't have been me. I was in jail, remember?
I'm so sorry... please understand.
Understand what? That I got a girlfriend who would rather accuse me of being a psychopathic killer than touch me.
You know that's not true.
Then what is it? Is there somebody else?
No...
Is it the sex thing? Am I being too pushy?
No, it's me, Billy. I need time. I'm still adjusting to my mom.
It's been a year since she died.
Tomorrow. One year tomorrow.
When are you gonna let that go, Sid? When my mom left my dad  I just accepted it. This is the way it is. She's not coming back.
Your parents split up. It's not the same thing. Your mom left town, she's not in a coffin somewhere.
You have to move on, Sid.
Subtlety, Stu. Look it up.
It's okay. We need to talk.
So...
So... I'm sorry. I've been a selfish shit and I'm sorry.
No, Billy. I'm the one who's been selfish and selfabsorbed with all of my post traumatic stress.
You lost your mom...
But you're right  enough is enough. I can't wallow in the grief process forever and I can't keep lying to myself about who my mom was.
I think in some weird analytical, psychological bullshit way I'm scared I'm gonna turn out just like her, you know? Like the bad seed or something...
Oh Sidney...
Everytime I get close to you I see my mom. I know it doesn't make sense.
Sure it does. It's like Jodie Foster in SILENCE OF THE LAMBS when she kept having flashbacks of her dead father.
But this is life. This isn't a movie.
Sure it is, Sid. It's all a movie. Life's one great big movie. Only you can't pick your genre.
I wanna let go. I do...
Ssshh... everything's gonna be okay. I promise.
Sshh... it's okay.
Or even a good porno.
What?
You heard me.
Are you serious?
Yeah... I think so.
Who did you call?
What?
When you're arrested  you're allowed one phone call? Who did you call?
I called my dad.
No, Sheriff Burke called your dad. I saw him.
Yeah... and when I called no one answered.
Uhhuh.
You don't still think it was me?
No, but if it were you, that would have been a very clever way to throw me off track. Using your one phone call to call me so I wouldn't think it was you.
I thought you were...
I'm alright. Gotta... get... help.
NO! Don't believe him.
It's okay. Give me the gun.
It's called GUESS HOW I'M GOING TO DIE!
Fuck you.
We already played that game. You lost, remember?
Why did you kill my mother?
Why? WHY? Did you hear that, Stu? I think she wants a motive. Hmmm... I don't really believe in motives, Sid. I mean, did Norman Bates have a motive?
I don't understand...
We did your mom a favor, Sid. The woman was a slut bag whore who flashed her shit all over town like she was Sharon Stone or something.
Jesus... fuck, that hurt.
Stop it!
Got the ending figured out yet? Time's running out.
Hello?
Are you alone in the house?
You bitch  where the fuck are you?
Not so fast. We're gonna play a little game. It's called GUESS WHO JUST CALLED THE POLICE AND REPORTED YOUR SORRY MOTHERFUCKING ASS?
I'm gonna rip you up bitch. Just like your slut whore mother.
Gotta find me first, you pansyassed Mama's boy.
Thank you, Hank. We're on it. What were you doing out at Sidney's tonight?
I just wanted to see her, that's all.
You rode your bike out there?
Yes, sir.
And last night? Sidney said you crawled through her window last night too?
Did you ride past Casey Becker's house?
No, I didn't. I didn't kill anyone, Sheriff.
We're gonna have to keep you, Billy. The governor's got SBI, FBI, and god knows who else on their way down here.
What? She asked.
It's called tact, you fuckrag.
Sorry.
I didn't kill anybody.
No one's saying you did.
Owwww...
You open your mouth and stupidity pours out.
Sorry.
How'd you do?
Piece of cake. She'll be there.
Thanks, butt wart. You did good.
So you gonna try and make up with Sid?
Duh... that's quick.
I was just asking. Why are you always at me?
Because I'm trying to build your selfesteem. You're far too sensitive.
Oh...
You ready to party hard tonight?
You know it.
Dude. What are you doing here?
I was hoping Sid and I could talk.
Where ya going? It's not over yet. We've got one more surprise  Stu, I believe it's your turn.
Oh yeah.
You have to play, Sid. Don't want to disappoint your dad. He's been waiting around all night.
It's an easy game. We ask you a question. If you get it wrong  you die.
And if you get it right  you die.
Tell that to Cotton Weary. You wouldn't believe how easy it was to frame him.
Yeah, we just watched a few movies. Took a few notes. It was fun.
Nope.
And did they really ever explain why Hannibal Lecter liked to eat people? Don't think so. You see, it's scarier when there's no motive, Sid.
Think about it. On the off chance I get caught  a motive like that could divide a jury for years, don't you think?. You took my mother, so I took yours. Big sympathy factor. Maternal abandonment causes serious deviant behavior. It certainly fucked you up. It made you have sex with a psychopath.
That's right and now that you're no longer a virgin. You gotta die  those are the rules.
This is the best part, Sid. Billy's got it all figured out. Why do you think we kept your father alive so long? Why did we save you for last?
You know what time it is, Sid? It's after midnight. It's your mother's anniversary. We killed her exactly one year ago today.
Ready?
Yeah...
What if your father snapped? Your mom's anniversary set him off and he went on a murder spree, killing everyone...
Except for me and Billy... we were left for dead...
And then he killed you and then shoots himself in the head. It's a perfect ending.
Everyone dies but us. We get to carry on and plan the sequel. Let's face it, these days  you gotta have a sequel.
That's it, Billy. I can't take any more. I'm feeling woozy.
Get the gun. I'll untie Pops.
It's on the table.
No, it's not.
I thought she was dead.
She looked dead. Still does.
She can't get both of us.
Odds are  she'll miss anyway.
I don't know Billy but I'm hurtin'.
Where the fuck did she go?
FIND HER YOU DIPSHIT!
I can't... I'm bad off, Billy. You cut too deep.
Hello?
Yes, hi I'm Laura, I'm a trained counselor. How can I help you.
Laura I think I just killed somebody.
Are you sure?
Uhhuh I'm sure. I've killed someone! OH MY GOD I'VE ACTUALLY KILLED SOMEONE!
Well then the people you need to call are the police.
No I need to call you. Just you.
I'm sorry, your voice.
Don't you want to know how you can help, Sidney? Are you listening to me, huh?
Who the fuck is this?
It's mother, Sidney, now be a good girl and turn on the news. DO IT!
Do you think it's over Sidney? Do you?
Wwhat do you want?
I want to finish what I started. I want to finish the game.
You sick fuck I'm tracing this call as we speak! The police are gonna nail your ass!
Let them try. You'll never find me. I've already gotten away with murder before. For instance, Maureen Prescott.
No. You didn't kill my mother. Billy Loomis and Stu Macher did.
Heh. So you think Sidney. So you think. It's all been building up to this Sid. Every STAB. Every SCREAM. Every ounce of blood that's been spilled has all been leading up to this moment. WELCOME TOTHE FINAL ACT.
The final act? Well let's play asshole!
No. We play in my court this time. Come to Hollywood. STAB 3's going to cutting corners castwise. And I've got my eyes set on a technical advisor named Dewey Rielly.
If you lay a hand on him I'll fucking kill you!
Great. A spirited one. I'll be seeing you real soon Sidney. Real soon.
{ a click } I only her you too, Sidney.
Who is this?
The question isn't who I am. The question is, who's with me.
Don't do it! If you do one thing to attract attention, one thing, I'll kill them both. Now, do you have somewhere we can be alone?
Yes.
Go there.
Always hard being friends with you, Sidney. When you're friends with Sidney, you die! Well these friends don't have to, Sidney. It's up to you.
How do I know their voices are 
Are real? How do you know you're not hearing things? How do you know I'm not someone in your head? Somewhere, you know.
You're dead!
I don't want them, I want you! It's simple. You show yourself, they survive, you run, they die!
Where?
She'd have been so happy, Sidney, to know we'd be together.
WHERE?
I'll call you, when you're on your way.
Yeah?
You follow directions good. Now let's wrap this production. Go to the Sunrise Studios backlot. I'll call you when you get there.
Alright, I'm here. Now what?
You're doing real good. Can't you figure it out? I wanna finish this where it all began. Woodsboro.
I thought you wanted me here?
Alright I'm here, now show your face so we can finish this.
It's good to see you again Sidney. I was growing real impatient. Go ahead. Explore. I'll catch up with you later.
Goddamnit I am getting so fed up with these rewrites. It's like every five minutes there's a new script. God, and you just know this all because of STAB 2's script winding up on the internet two months after it wrapped shooting.
And still the film is Number One at the box office this weekend. Beat out American Pasty and Arlington Street.
What are you talking about? The murders were a completely isolated incident.
SCENE 32. INT. CANDY'S LIVING ROOM  NIGHT. "What are you talking about Ricky, the murders were a completely isolated incident".
Would you give that script a rest? It's like a friggen umbilical cord to you.
I'm just saying, though. What if there's someone out there stalking actors? Huh? Then what?
Roman and everybody else went home for the night. I'm here for a makeup test.
Makeup. You need it. Hey, Roman isn't here?
No.
Damn. He called my roommate and told her he had some important things he wanted to go over with me in his office tonight.
Oh shit. Hello? Director's office.
Sarah, it's Roman, I'm sorry I'm running late, I'm still on the 405, I'm about 10 minutes away.
Oh it's no problem, I'm just... looking at your music video awards.
All right, since I got you on the phone, let's talk about your character.
What character? I'm Candy, the chick who gets killed second. I'm only in two scenes!
You're not happy with your part.
I'm not happy that I'm 35 playing a 21 year old. I'm not happy that I have to die naked! And I'm not happy that my character is too stupid not to have a gun in the house after her boyfriend's been cut into McNuggets.
Um hmm... umhmm great, so let's run the lines.
Huh, fine.
Page 22, Candy's big moment.
Page 22.. Ring ring. Hello?
Hello.
Who's this?
Who's this?
This is Candy. Hang on, let me get some clothes. See! I don't' understand why I have to start the scene in the shower! The whole shower things been done, 'Vertigo' hello! And I mean, my boyfriend just died, why am I showering?
Why don't we just read the scene? Candy, is that like candy cane or candy apple?
Whatever. Come on, who is this? I think you have the wrong number.
But you know my favorite name?
I'm hanging up right now.
It's Sarah.
Roman that's not the line.
It is in my script.
Has there been another goddamn rewrite? How the fuck are we supposed to learn our lines when there's a new script every 15 minutes?
It's not just a new script, it's a new movie.
What? What movie?
My movie.
Roman Bridger, director. And brother. She slammed the door in my face, Sid. Said I was Rina's child and Rina was dead. And it struck me, what a good idea! So I watched her, made a little home movie, a little family film. Seems Maureen, mom, really got around. I mean, Cotton Weary was one thing, everybody knew about that, but Billy's father, that was the key! Your boyfriend didn't like seeing his daddy in my movies. Didn't like it at all. And once I supplied the motive, all the kid needed was a few pointers. Have a partner to sell out in case you get caught, find someone to frame, it was like her was making a movie.
All the nightmares. All the hell I went through was because of you, you spineless bastard!
I'm a director Sid, I direct. For example, Angelina over there, She's my partner. I can convince her to do anything. We've been dating since I met her in Woodsboro.
Oh my God, Angie Crick? From English class?
Listen, I have no time for this. I've heard this shit before! So lets get on with it!
Wait a second Sid. Don't you go jumping the gun. You haven't seen the best part. With the aides of the computer revolution of y2kI've been able to steal your voice. Ain't it cool? Listen to what the police are gonna find next to your lifeless, mutilated body.
I can't take it anymore. This Hollywood exploitation of the nightmare I lived has to be stopped. I did this to make you all repent for your sins, and now I'm pleased I've got my message across. Goodbye.
See Sid, now comes the part where we get away with it! The part where we win! Cause face it Sidney, in this world, the bad guys win!
Roman knock it off! Do you people even know why you kill people? You kill people cause you choose to and not because of any other fucking reason!
Oh my God! Sidney, you ran fast or what? Hey.
Hi, Gale. I'm glad you're all right.
What'd he say?
Oh, you know, the usual small talk, "What's new, how ya been, how do you want to die?"
Oh my God Karen you scared the shit out of me! What are you doing here?
Who's this.
We did some researching in the archives. Sid, something dawned on me when I wrote the book on your mother's murder. For two years of her life, 1969 up until 1971 she basically disappeared off the face of the Earth.
What are you talking about?
Gale he's got Dewey!
I know! He killed Kincaid!
I know!
Let's get out of here!
GALE WATCHOUT!
Gale Weathers. What a surprise.
Tom Prinze, tanked as usual. That's a shocker.
Hey I really liked that piece you did on me last month. The one where you said my car accident was caused by me drinking and drugs, and how I faked the tire blowout just so my insurance wouldn't sky rocket.
Heh, well, that's TV journalism for ya. Stage the news to boost ratings.
Really, cause that stunt lost me the lead role in Roman Polanski's latest picture. Huh, what a coincide I was picked up by Roman Bridger. Well, not exactly the Roman I wanted. Get my point? STAB 3 is bullshit. Fuck, because of your big mouth I'm here, drinking piss water SCOTCH with Second rate fucking celebrities like Jennifer Jollie and yourself! Hey, I just got an idea. Maybe I should Have a look at your break line. That your car over there?
I think we should go inside. I have to have a talk with the cast. ALL OF YOU.
You mean what's left of us. Yeah I'm running on empty anyways. Gotta refuel.
Excuse me Detective, I think we have some business to attend to.
GALE WEATHERS?! What are you doing here? No press on the set! No press, no press on set! Get that woman out of here.
Well then, I guess I'll be leaving then.
Oh come on! Why the hostility?
Listen Lois Lane, I love your show and all but last month I happened to catch your little segment on me and how my wife left me because I'm a sex addict who enjoys screwing fifteen year old girls. It was a real eye opener my lawyers are still thinking about bringing to your superior's attentions.
They're the ones who approved it.
Answer the question. You knew Sidney's mom?
Who?
And now? I mean, murders on your set and still you say nothing?
Get real, that would make me a suspect!
Just because you knew her?
Yeah.
I don't think so! Just what happened to Maureen when she was in Hollywood?
Now you listen to me, Lois Lane, let it go. It's dead and buried. Daddy took ol' Yeller out behind the barn and shot him in the head a long time ago.
Well how would you like his rotten carcass dug up and drug all over National TV? Why don't you start talking.
It was in the 70's, everything was different. I was well known for my parties, Rina knew what they were. It was for girls like her to meet men, men who could get them parts, if they made the right impression. Nothing happened to her that she didn't invite, in one way or another, no matter what she said afterwards.
Are you saying she was
I'm saying things got out of hand. Maybe they did take advantage of her!. Maybe the sad truth is, this is not the city for innocence. No charges were brought. And the bottom line is, Rina Reynolds wouldn't play by the rules. You wanna get ahead in Hollywood, you gotta play the game, or go home.
You! How can I ever get any fame playing you!
Dewey, what the hell is she rambling about now? What's wrong Jen, see yourself on one of those USA NETWORK winners you did and realize how badly you suck at acting?
God damn you Gale Weathers! Don't you see? The killer is choosing his victims as they die in the script! Ben Damon's character was the first one to get offed. So was his girlfriend  but she wasn't cast yet so his real girlfriend was killed  then Sarah Darling's Candy, and now me!
Wait a second, whoa! Calm down! Number one there were five different versions of the script given out. Ben Damon was given a fake script because he was only being offered the role. It only had fragments of real scenes from the actual script. And what, I die in STAB 3?
AND I DIE NAKED?! UGH! This is complete bullshit. Who wrote this piece of crap?
I know right. It was kinda weak. That's cause Will Kennison only wrote a rough treatment of it. The script was written by some new guy. He wrote Arlington Street.
Still that was a much better movie, I saw it at the premiere last week. God, what the hell am I getting sidetracked with this shit for?! We've gotta get down to business.
Shit! Where the hell are Tom and Angelina?
I don't know. Screw them. Look, what's important is that we stick together. No matter what. If anyone is next it's you or me Jen.
Who's phone?
Oh shit it's my cell!
Listen you sick bastard, what the fuck do you want?
What's your favorite scary movie Gale?
I dunno but I can tell you that your's will be the home video footage of me sticking my foot up your ass! Now come out and fight like a real man you pussy!
God damn it you two! Run! Hurry! He's dead!
No! He's not dead! He's still breathing! Look!
Geez.
What the hell are you doing?
Being Gale Weathers. What the hell are you doing?
I am Gale Weathers!
Here's how I see it. I've got no house, no movie, no gun, and I'm being stalked. Because someone wants to kill me? No, because someone wants to kill you. So now, starting now, I go where you go. That way, if someone wants to kill me, I'll be with you, and since they really want to kill you, they won't kill me, they'll kill you. Make sense?
None.
You know in the movies, I play you as being much smarter.
And as a sane person. For you that must be quite a stretch.
That's funny.
Ha. Maybe I should join SNL.
Need to get in that building?
No really?
There a story in that building?
Possibly.
Gale Weathers would find a way.
Basements creep me out.
Really, you know you'd make a fascinating interview. Lifestyles of the Rich and Psychotic.
Look who's talking Moneybags. You got more homes than I do.
Oh I wish I got that one on tape. It'd put a smile on my face everytime I'm down.
Bitch.
Nobody said she was an actor.
Good twist.
Oh, Come on! You have made millions off the story of her murder. You're obsessed with HER and you're obsessed with her DAUGHTER!
Settle down Beavis. Why don't you tell us the truth?
I think Milton's the killer. I think he just went out to kill another cast member.
Milton's not a killer. He's a pervert. He probably went out to buy more KY JELLY for his jack off parties he has with his two best friends.
Rob Reiner and Quentin Tarentino?
Do you get any of my witty humor? I mean, you did play me for three movies. His two hands, dingus.
Good morning Gale. Pleasure to be here.
It's a pleasure to finally meet you, Roman.
Well it's a honor to be here amongst so many fans of the genre. And I must say that any of you worried that Jerry Rapp, or Tori or David not returning to complete the STAB trilogy, have no fear, Roman is here. Aided with my excellent cast of newcomers I believe we're going to pull off one of the best Stabs yet.
Roman, from your enthusiasm it certainly seems that way. Honestly though, tell us, what's your favorite scary movie?
Honestly, my life.
Your life?
Well if you were in my shoes, dealing with those big Time Sunrise Studio producers like I do on a daily basis, you'd watch how quick your life goes from a Walt Disney picture to a Tobe Hooper flick.
Would you excuse me for a moment?
Sure.
So you knew Sidney Prescott's mother.
Just what the hell do you people think you're doing, barging in here like this? I've got important calls to make. I run this studio.
What's your point?
No point, I'm just gonna give Detective Kincaid a call.
I remember her! She was a bit player in a couple of my movies. A nobody! So what does it matter?
What the hell are you guys getting at? I make horror films, that's what I do. The Studio came to me with 'Stab'. They came to me, check it out.
But you know who she was.
When we did the first 'Stab" I realized I'd known Maureen Prescott before, I mean as Rina. I couldn't tell anyone. Can you imagine the press?
Dewey, personal lives and pasts aside, this is about Sidney. We need to know where she is.
What so you can just exploit her again with another book? Sid doesn't need you Gale.
Show him.
They found another note?
Uhhuh. Another News clipping. Another one about Sid's mom. Dewey, whether we like it or not it looks like we're going to have to go back into our past.
You mean OUR past as in Me and Sid. This has nothing to do with you Gale.
This has everything to do with me Dewey. I was the one who brought the nation's attention to this shit anyway. I'll be damned if I'm gonna sit around and pass on the buck again.
Do you really mean it this time Gale?
Yes. Look, let's get something straight Dewey, I got into this shit cause the police came looking for ME. Not cause I'm out to make the SUNRISE STUDIOS SLASHINGS.
Why would the police come to you?
Again, I am the author of the definitive book on the Woodsboro murders.! What about you?
What about me?
You said you'd never leave Woodsboro, 'The only place that's real!' But now you're here. Not with me. Dewey, I took care of you. I waited until you were well. I couldn't stay there, I mean, it's like dog years, one year in Woodsboro is like seven everywhere else.
So it's off to London for a week? New York for a month? L.A Forever?
It was fucking '60 Minutes II'! I couldn't say no! I could've been the next Diane Sawyer!
What's wrong with just being Gale Weathers? I liked her!
It didn't work Dewey. We tried, we're different.
You used to say that was our strength.
Dewey, you're not just here because of that second rate KMart, straighttovideo version of me, are you?
Brace yourself, Gale, all of this is actually not About you.
All of what Dewey? You do know something, don't you?
Off the record.
Always.
Two months ago, the Woodsboro police got a call from a woman who said she was with 'Stab 3'. She wanted to see the file on Sid, for research.
And?
The boys said no. She wouldn't give her name. A month later, the station gets broken into, the file room ransacked.
Someone stole Sid's file?
I already removed it. I think someone on the film was trying to find Sid, and that's the only reason I came here. To make do a little private investigating of my own and make sure no one here was planning anything.
I'm sorry, this is too good!
What part of 'Off the record' don't you understand?
Right. Sorry. Do you think he did it?
I've got my suspicions but still, nothing you say can ever make me take my eyes off one person.
And who is that?
Jennifer needs me.
Jennifer?! Wait, where are you going off to?
I'm on duty.
Stop following me.
I happen to work for the police god dammit!
You're not a detective.
Neither are you, Magnum P.I.
Gale, your engine's still running.
Fuck!
Don't worry. I'm prepared for anything.
Amen boy scout, now answer the fucking door!
OH. OH GOD. GALE 
What?
GALE BEHIND YOU!
Thank you.
Sid, this is detective Kincaid.
Do you have her number stored in your memory? Phone memory!
Oh. Yeah, I guess I do.
Has anyone else every used your phone?
Just Jennifer. And you.
I've got an idea, I'll hook up with you guys later.
Do you want us to come with you?
I work better alone. Why don't you do some snooping around the set?
Sidney, what happened?
Nevermind, what'd you two find?
Paternity test results. Christ Dewey, you're never going to believe who Milton's kid is.
Who is it?
Gale, I know this is a bad time and all but what if we try it out again. The whole relationship thing.
Sure, why not. You did Save my life,Mr. Rielly.
What are you doing here? I told you to stay hidden! It's not safe for you up here.
Well it's not safe for me up there either. The killer found me Dewey. He called me last night.
What?
I figured I'd be safe If I was at least up here with the people I care about. Now where's this Kincaid guy the news is talking about? I found this place from a FOX 5 TV NEWS REPORT. Heh.
Follow me.
I was afraid they were bait, something to, ya know, trick you out of hiding.
Listen, Detective, I wanna see this studio where all this shit's going down.
Alright Sid, over there is the STAB 3 Production offices. That's where Sarah Darling was murdered last night.
Mm, what a waste of Silicone. What does my mother have to do with this all Dewey? We're a long way from Woodsboro.
Karen Colcheck. From Woodsboro.
She was Randy's only girlfriend . . . ever.
I can see nothing's changed.
No.
Listen Dewey I have to go to the bathroom.
Do you want me to come with you Sid? I mean, remember what Randy said?
No I'll be ok. I've got my mace. My knife. These two lethal weapons.
Don't worry, I've got a permit for it.
Jesus Christ Dewey help me! They tried to kill me in the bathroom! The killers!
Yeah?
Help me Sid! The killer's got me!
Dewey?! OHMIGOD! Where are you?!
Sid I can see you!
Where are you Dewey?
I'm out back. Tied up. Hurry Sid! The killer's looking for you! Quick untie me!
Where's Gale?
They've got her!
Sid I want you to stay here! I'll be right back! I'm not gonna let them get Gale!
Dewey my God I thought you were dead.
Don't worry Sid I'd never leave you like that.
DEWEY! IT'S GALE!
Watch out Sid. Randy said the killer's always superhuman.
He wasn't superhuman Dewey. He wasn't superhuman at all.
Mr. Rielly? My name is Mark Kincaid. I'm with the L.A.P.D. Are you aware of last night's Events?
Yeah. A real tragedy.
That's fine Mr. Rielly, but if anyone else should die, I'm going to have to get a warrant.
Understood. If you'll excuse me Detective. Gale.
I told you, I don't know where Sidney is. And even if there was a third killer, Sidney doesn't know about it.
That is for me to decide. I need to talk to her Mr. Riley, she is a key element in this case. I have a press conference in an hour, and I need to explain why there are four dead celebrities.
What about Angelina Tyler? She was there too.
Police are still searching through the debris. Could be days before we find her . . . that is, if she's even there.
Before you jump to conclusions, the man in the picture, COTTON WEARY, is out of the country on business. His alibi checks out. Seems he's got a TV show in Australia, 100% COTTON. It's supposedly the biggest thing down under since Yahoo Serious, but that's besides the point.
What does this have to do with Sid?
Who knows more about Maureen Prescott than her own daughter?
Well Sid's dad couldn't help you and he was married to Maureen.
Is that a threat, Detective?
When it's a threat, you'll know it.
Is that a threat?
Detective Kincaid?
What Rielly?
There's someone here who wants to help.
Nice to finally meet you, Sidney.
The killer called her.
What? When?
Sidney, do you have any idea how he could've gotten your number?
He could've monitored the calls on a scanner. Did you call her from the set?
No.
Jesus Christ Sidney, what happened? I got a call on my cell from home. They told me that someone was attacked.
And what made you think it was Sidney?
Sid, get in my car. You're coming back to the station with me where it's safe.
The killer leaves a newspaper clipping at each murder, Sidney. Recently he's also left a photo of your mother.
Why didn't you tell me? This is my mother, Dewey. Why didn't you say something?
Are you sure?
Absolutely.
What do you know about trilogies?
You mean like, movie trilogies?
You seem to like movies, Detective.
Call me Mark, would you? Cause I'm gonna keep calling you Sidney.
I'll call you Mark when you catch the killer, Detective.
All I know about movie trilogies is in the third one, all bets are off.
Did you request this case?
No, they tend to put me on the ones that deal with the business. I grew up here, and I know my way around the studios.
Must be exciting, Beautiful place, beautiful people.
To me Hollywood is about death.
Excuse me?
I'm a homicide detective, remember? When you see what I see day in and day out, the violence that people do to each other, you get haunted. I think you know about that.
What do you mean?
I know what it's like to see ghosts that don't Go away. To be watching a scary movie in your head, whether you want to or not, watching it alone.
Ghosts are tough, you can't shoot ghosts.
Can't arrest ghosts. But the best way to stop being haunted is to be with people. You're here, you're not hiding, you've done the right thing, Miss Prescott.
Hmm.
What did you know about your mother?
I used to think I had the perfect mom, perfect family. Till I found out I was wrong. She had a secret life, and I tried to understand that, and soon as I thought I had, more secrets. I don't' know who my mom was. Sometimes I feel like I'm just learning about my mother for the first time. You know, with TV and those movies and what not. God sometimes I feel like I'm just learning about myself for the first time. Like I'm watching my life instead of living in it.
Here's the deal, I'm off to search the soundstage. That's good news.
How is that good news?
Because, that means that we're dealing with an ordinary, flesh and blood killer. And I know how to handle guys like that.
Oh yeah, how?
Catch him, or kill him.
Jesus Christ you scared the shit out of me.
I'm sorry Miss Weathers. Allow me to introduce myself, MARK KINCAID, L.A.P.D. Are you familiar with the actor Ben Damon, or the actress CHRISTINE PERKINS?
Well I interviewed Damon once for the show. He was a real obnoxious fuck. Any way, the second one, Christine Perkins, she had a part in Stab 2, didn't she? She was playing CICI.
Both of them were found brutally murdered this morning under the Hollywood sign. Autopsy reports having come back to me yet but the bodies looked like something out one of the Stab films.
So is that why you're here? Is that why you're holding me from my show, to tell me about some brutal homicide I'm not even involved in?
I wish that was all Miss Weathers, but there's more. The killer left a note.
A note?
That's Sidney Prescott's mother.
There's more.
I've tried to get in touch with Sidney Prescott, but she's keeping herself very well hidden. You're my one and only hope in finding her. Her life may be in grave danger.
I'd love to help, really I wouldn't mind being sliced at again by a maniacal psychopath, but I honestly don't know where Sidney is. After Windsor she dropped off the face of the Earth. The only other person that might know is, , not going to talk.
And who would that be?
Alright Kincaid, no where to?
I go to the police station and do my job, and you go back to being Gale Weathers.
Oh. I thought you wanted me to stick around.
Look, Miss Weathers, if there's a problem, give me a call. Here's my card. I'm always there.
That's STAB 3, Miss Weathers. It looks like we're going to be getting a warrant to speak with Miss Prescott anyway.
Shit. Sarah Darling. I interviewed her too. God, it's happening again isn't it Detective?
Yes well we have a suspect, so don't get that worried.
Who?
I'm not at liberty to tell you that Miss Weathers. You're no longer working with the L.A.P.D. I don't even know why you're standing in here right now. By all means I should have you thrown out.
But you won't. You're a good man detective. We think alike. I know you need my help. And I know you know I need your help.
In my fifteen years as a homicide detective I've never met a single soul as pushy and brazen as you are Miss Weathers.
Please, call me Gale.
Deal, but I'm still Detective Kincaid,ok?
Whoever it is, now is taking credit for Maureen Prescott's murder.
But we know who killed Maureen Prescott, Billy Loomis and Stu Macher. I mean, they even told Sidney how they did it!
Yeah, but, if I'm not mistaken, you said in your book that Sidney got it wrong before. She accused Cotton Weary of murdering her mother, and he was sent away for it! Maybe there is a third killer. Sidney Might know something
Four? There are five.
Ben Damon. Christine Perkins. Sarah Darling. Tom Prinze. That's four, last time I learned how to count.
OK, look. We all know that this has something to do with 'Stab 3'. What we do not know is why the killer keeps leaving articles about Maureen Prescott.
Actually, there was more this time. This time, we found a picture too.
Boys, boys, why don't we compare our gun calibers later? The issue is Maureen Prescott!
Wrong, this issue is Sidney Prescott! And either Mr. Riley is going to obstruct justice or is going to put me in touch with her. So, where is she?
Jesus Gale what happened?
He killed Milton! The killer's inside there! Oh God! DEWEY! Dewey's in there too! He needs medical help! He's hurt!
Alright, calm down. I'm going to radio in for backup right now.
Can I help you?
I'm Gale Weathers, author of the Woodsboro and Windsor College murders, and anchorwoman for TOTAL ENTERTAINMENT. Maybe you've heard of me?
I don't watch TV and I hate books. Whatta you need?
Does the name Maureen Prescott sound familiar to you?
Nope.
Well can you tell me if the woman in this picture looks familiar to you.
Listen, I'm busy. Nobody has access to those files except studio execs. Can you please go away now?
Well if you won't work for me, will you work for the president?
I know every face in here, respect for the unknown actor I suppose, myself included. If you're looking for Maureen Prescott 
It may be Maureen Reynolds 
Well you'll find neither. Rina Reynolds, however, You will.
What are these movies? 'Amazombies', 'Space Psychos' 'Creatures from theSan Andreas Fault'?
Horror flicks. BMovies from Milton's heyday.
Jesus. Hello?
Hello.
Who is this?
Who is this?
Well what number are you trying to reach?
I don't know.
I think you got the wrong number, buddy.
Do I?
Uhhuh. Look bro, my battery is running out. Really wish I could chat, but I can't so, later.
Wait, wait. Don't hang up.
Asshole, Can't talk.
But your voice sounds so familiar.
You almost sound like that guy from THERE'S SOMETHING ABOUT CARRIE. Ben. Ben Damon.
Well ya got me. That's me. I'm Ben Damon.
Really? You're such a talented actor.
Thanks.
Now let's see you act your way out of this one.
What do you mean?
I mean, I'm standing right outside the LADIES ROOM door at the PLAZA THEATER. Your girlfriend Christine is in there. She's all alone. Everyone's in the auditorium waiting for the film to start. I've got my knife.
Listen you sick fuck, is this your idea of a joke?
More of a game really.
What kind of a game?
You seem to be familiar with the STAB movies. Here's how we play. I ask you a question. You get it right, your girlfriend lives. You answer wrong, she dies.
I swear to God if you lay a finger on her I'll fucking kill you!
Maybe so, but right now, we play the game. First question, Your girlfriend's counting on you, Name your girlfriend's character in STAB 2?
It's CICI! Cici's the name of the character she plays in the movie!
Very good. Now we play ROUND 2.
What?! But I did everything you said to do!
That's right. And you beat ROUND 1. Now we're taking the game to a whole new level. Meet me beneath the Hollywood sign in ten minutes. I'll have your girlfriend. We'll be waiting.
What?!
Good bye Ben.
You're not playing by the rules Ben. Don't you want her to live?
I swear to God if you lay one hand on her!
No! You listen to me, if you're not where I want you in fifteen minutes I'll hollow her out. Do you understand?
Yeah.
Very good. You follow directions well. Now for the final part of the game. Put down the bat and approach the sign, slowly.
Where are you?
Closer than you think.
Alright I'm here. What the fuck do you want from me?
To see your reaction.
Reaction to what?
No, Jennifer Love Hewitt. Of course it's me, silly. And I feel like an ass standing in this theater lobby all by myself. Where are you babe, the movie starts in twenty minutes.
Look, I'm stuck on the freeway. I think there was some big accident. It could be a little while so I don't want you to start freaking if I don't get there at exactly, Eight thirty.
All I'm saying is I'm gonna be royally p.o.'d if you don't catch my acting debut.
Oh I wouldn't miss it for the world. I bet you did such a great job.
I did. Hon, although I got a total of six minutes screen time, they're the best six minutes of the movie.
Heh heh I bet they are babe. I bet they are. Look, my battery's dying . . .
I think Jeff Bridges is getting tired.
Nah I think it's doing so damn well because one of it's players got iced. I just hope none of us end up dead.
Oh that's right. Those poor poor people. God Ben Damon was such a hottie.
And that CICI chick wasn't that bad either but I'm really concerned about my safety now.
There's always someone out there stalking actors. Look at that woman from the Commish.
Melinda McGraw?
No, the other one. The one who played his wife.
What do you want?
I'm sorry, Sid, please. I never should have gone along with Gale. I know I'm stupid. I wish I had some good reason to give you but I'm just stupid. Please, Sid, don't be mad at me.
Do you work for her now?
Well, yeah...she gave me a job. Freelance. It got me outta Woodsboro. I'm sorry about Cotton and yesterday. It was a bad idea. I knew it was a bad idea but it seemed like a quasi harmless bad idea. Ah, shit, Sid, I'm fucked up. Sidney looks at him Long and hard, a smile slowly appearing.
Me, too. Randy. Me too.
If he's innocent he'll have an alibi.
I guess Gale's going to be pissed she missed her exclusive.
I'll relay it. You sure you don't wanna go home?
I have this button I press. See? It insulates me. She mimes an air lock valve.
I gotta coupla of those buttons myself.
Thanks for the movie, Randy.
Anytime. Sorry it sucked. It just had that been there done that feeling.
Sid? Jesus, where's Hallie? I've been here all night.
Listen to me. We've got to get help. The Killer's here.
What are you talking about?
He's after me.
I'll be right back.
Where you going?
What was that?
Don't panic.
I hate scary movies.
It'll be okay, baby, I'll hold your hand.
If we hurry, we can still catch the Sandra Bullock movie.
We got free tickets.
Take it off.
But...
Now.
Now why does she have to be naked? How does that serve the plot?
Sssshhh. ON SCREEN The phone RINGS. The young girl pulls the shower curtain aside to reveal a robe hung on a hook. She grabs it, running from the bathroom, into the living room, grabbing the phone.
Why doesn't she just hang up and call the police? Stupid..
Shush.
I'm gonna pee. You want anything?
You ass.
I'm sorry, I'm sorry but I had to. It was too easy.
You are so not funny.
Come on, baby. Lighten up a little, will ya?
I get scared really easy, okay.
You gotta go with it. Scary movies are great foreplay.
I just have a hard time with insipid, sexist violence.
We can still Sandra Bullock it.
Sandra started without us. We can stay. He kisses her again, then breaks away.
Hello?
Gale?
She's not here right now.
But she's standing right next to you.
What do you care? Let 'em have their fun. So, what's up?
What's your favorite scary movie?
SHOWGIRLS. Absolutely frightening. What's yours? Wait, let me guess. THE HOUSE ON SORORITY ROW? FINAL EXAM. GRADUATION DAY? THE DORM THAT DRIPPED BLOOD? SPLATTER UNIVERSITY? Am I close?
Closer than you think.
Do you want to die?
Gee, let me think. "Do you want to..." Is that the best you can do? Some tired hand me down rehash? Hey, pal, no one's gonna write a book about you. No movie rights. Nothing. I've been through this before and much better I might add.
..this week's TKE kegger...
Ne ask that you sell individual squares of toilet paper for a mere nickel a piece.
We've set you each at a five dollar quota.
It's all about sisterhood. Everybody thinks its about partying and blowjobs but...
..we only promote safe rubbered sex.
..it's really about family and tradition...
..harmonica style is okay.
I just love being a sister.
Have they questioned you yet, Sid?
This has nothing to do with me, Joel. There's an estimated 270 serial killers currently active in the US at any given time. I can't control that. Who's hungry?
I gotta hit the library. Anatomy. Some of us have real majors. You gonna be okay, Sid?
You're not allowed to ask that.
I'll stop by the Deltas tonight.
Thanks, Joel.
Perfect. I'll be outta Microbio and we can grab a bite.
Guys, guys, I'm sorry but, no way.
Sid, I'll seeya tonight.
But...
How many guys they have on you?
I counted four.
I've been waiting for you, baby.
Is that cool? Just to leave her like that?
Randy Meeks. He was with Sid that night in Woodsboro.
Her old boyfriend?
No, she killed her boyfriend. Randy was a friend. MICKEY Watch out, Derek.
And white.
Easy black boy.
It's documented. Most serial killers are attractiveslightly off white males in their twenties.
A patio chair comes flying through a glass door. The young girl in the movie tears off running, SCREAMING, flying through the room.
The crowd is really with the movie. Some even talk to the screen. "You dumb bitch. Get out of the house." etc.
The young girl runs by a window. She looks in. A GHOST MASKED KILLER stares back. The Figure CRASHES through the window attacking her. She fights him off, getting away, running...
Everyone in the theater is SCREAMING. Maureen tries her best to detach herself from the movie. She eats her popcorn.
The Ghost advances on the young girl, grabbing her, pulling her to him, raising high a long, hunting knife. The young girl is helpless...
Maureen looks at Phil, confused...as if seeing for the first time...IT'S NOT PHIL. She pulls away when, the Ghostmasked Figure grabs her with one hand, the other one clutching the hunting knife. Maureen sees it, her mouth billowing forth a LOUD SCREAM That is matched by the entire audience as they SCREAM at the screen.
The young girl, clutching her bloody chest...drags herself, crawling across wet grass...the killer behind her...raising his knife again.
Popcorn flies as Maureen falls forward, into the aisle, clutching her bloody stomach. She's speechless, unable to SCREAM. She holds her bloody hand out for all to see, begging for help. She stumbles down the aisle. Someone YELLS "Sit down." Maureen turns to several PEOPLE who begin to react. She turns behind her to see the Ghost Face coming at her again...knife raised.
The young girl is slashed again.
The knife slices into Maureen again...then again. The theatre audience is starting to take note as the Ghost keeps slashing at her repeatedly with the knife. A horrifying, sickening sight.
Knock yourself out.
Hello? Hello?
Time to change numbers again?
Nah...I think it'll die off. It's opening weekend. Let's see how it goes.
Okay, you're sure about skipping Calculas?
Please, I have the perfect excuse.
What about rehearsal?
Gotta.
I'll cover you through rehearsal. Derek when do you get outta docu drama?
That was good.
Yeah, right.
Who is that guy?
It's okay. Look, Hallie, I'll meet you outside.
No, girletta, I don't leave your side.
I've got my entourage. Take a break. Please.
We're missing the Sig Ep party.
No, Hallie, not tonight. Parties and mass murderers don't go together. Trust me.
No, no, I hadn't planned on going, it's just Mickey will be pissed.
It's okay to break, girl. You shatter if you have to.
I'd really just like to be alone.
Can I come with her?
No, Hallie, I'm not gonna take you down too. I'll be alright.
I'm the only one who can cut him down.
It's not a good idea, Hallie.
Oh, Sid, youre sounding desparate. I guess fearing death makes one anxious.
You fucking freaked out movie nut psychos..
Lucas and his Romper Room stage.
I got. I got it. FRIDAY THE 13TH, PART 20.
I have rehearsal.
I have to watch rehearsal.
Shut up. Mickey, you and I can take her late evening.
Sig Ep's gotta band, tonight.
Too bad.
He tried to kill her first.
Is Sid in therapy?
I got a surprise for you.
What?
"If I should stay. I would only be in your way. So I'll go. And yet, I know, I'll think of you each step of the way...
Don't do this.
"And IIIIIIIIIYEIIIII will always love you OOOOOOWUOOOOOOOO will always love you."
You're going to get it. You know what happens.
But I love you. And I want the whole world to know it.
Someones trying to kill me. I need the police.
Are you in danger now?
Yes, goddammit!
Where is your attacker?
I dont know.
Stay under the safety light. Help is on its way.
The safety what? Fuck that!
Sidney. Hello. How are you?
I'm okay. PEOPLE magazine won't stop calling but other than that...
I'm sorry.
Yeah, well...you are the definition of mixed emotions. I really should hate you... I see your movie's getting good reviews.
It seems to be causing a stir. What's with the toilet paper?
It's hell week. I'm pledging the Deltas.
It's good to see you involved.
My morn was a Delta.
Sid, I'll come with you.
But who would operate your camera?
What?
Oh my God.
Who is this?
I'll give you one guess.
Who are you?
That's not the way we play the game.
I don't play games.
What if your life depended on it?
What do you want?
You're pretty when you're angry.
Where are you?
I'm everywhere.
Oha God complex
Stay away from the cop.
What do you want from me?
It's what you want from me.
What do you mean?
You are writing another book, aren't you? That's why you're here. The story's not over.
You're getting obvious.
No, Gale, I'm just getting started. Seeya soon.
No, wait...
Watch your back.
Three hundred people watched? Nobody did anything?
They thought it was a publicity stunt.
Oh my God. How could it happen?
They don't know. It was carefully planned. Earlier in the day the victims received anonymous passes to the movie.
It's a copycat killer I knew this would happen. That fucking movie.
As of now, they don't see any relation. But they're checking it out. The state, Special Task Force, FBIthey're all here. They'll find the guy.
Yeah, right.
Look, Sid, why don't you take off? Disappear for a few days. I'll come with you.
No. I will not crawl under a rock. This is a fuckedup world and people kill people all the time. I'll just get used to it.
You go, it's all stairs, I can take it from here.
Don't worry...
Dewey, I'm completely equipped with mace, alarm whistle, keyring, knife, a degree in defensive combat...
Just in case...
No. This is nothing, Dewey. I'll be okay. Go back to work and let me get back to my quasi pseudohappy existence.
The police are waiting outside. They're going to take you somewhere safe.
Dewey, there's no such place.
Humor me, Sid.
Hey, I got stuff to do. But I'll find you later, okay.
Whatever.
Hello, Dwight.
Miss Weathers.
I've been trying to reach you but you haven't returned...
I'm on crowd patrol, Miss Weathers, excuse me.
Yes, Miss Weathers, your name is embedded clearly between my ears.
I see you read the book.
Yes, I do retain reading skills. Shock.
And an explanation is, of course, out of the question.
Page 32. "Deputy Dewey filled the room with his dimwitted Barney Fifish presence." I think you've explained yourself.
Oh Dewey, I'm sorry.
No, what you are is a money hungry, fame seeking liar andforgive me for saying mediocre writer who has a cold storage shed where her heart should be.
You have every right to be upset.
Page 41. "Deputy Dewey oozed with inexperience."
I never meant to imply...
How do you know my dimwitted inexperience isn't merely a subtle form of manipulation used to lower people's expectations thereby enhancing my ability to effectively maneuver within any given situation?
I'm sorry. I don't know what else to say except I'm sorry.
No, I'm the one who's sorry. I misjudged you. Now if you'll excuse me, I have some oozing to do.
So what made you change your mind about Sidney?
Mood swing. I'm manic depressive.
You're a hard one to figure out. GALE It's that complex yet shallow quality. It's deliberate.
I think you're all an act.
And deep down I'm a good person? Make no mistake, Dewey, I'm a shit.
I know that.
Yeah?
I also know that you're an aging TV reporter slash writer who, despite huge tabloid success, has some self worth issues regarding your personal life which directly effects your professional life in a nonpositive manner. A coupla failed relationships withI'm guessing balding, older menhave turned you into this bitch with a cell phone. But I bet sometimes, late at night, when you're all alone a sadness seeps to the surface and in a moment of clarity you know that all you really want is to be touched and held and fondled.
Not good. How you doin?
Not good.
If you were truly a copycat, wouldn't you want to emulate everything about the killer that you could?
Meaning?
He's already gotta be a part of Sid's life. What do you know about this Derek?
Solid alibis. He was with Sidney when she was attacked.
Billy had alibis too.
You broke my heart.
What are we looking for?
A bloody knife. A ghost mask. Something like that?
Can we turn the light on?
That's not the way it's done.
And it's sexier in the dark.
Dewey, you and I would never make it.
Maybe not. But think about the sex. As frustrated as I am...
..and as lonely as I am...
We'd break some furniture.
They're roomates.
And Joel's premed.
The sorority girl was gutted with autopsy precision.
Shit! It's both of them. The first murders were to throw us  using the same names as Woodsboro. But they've moved on they're getting closer to Sidney. They're not looking for a Himbry or a Tatum to kill. They're looking for the new Tatum.
Hallie?
Ssshh! What was that?
Let's find out.
This is all too familiar.
Over here.
Maybe they never got here. He could have taken her anywhere.
C'mon. Let's go.
Jesus Christ!
He filmed his victims.
Let's go.
No, wait here.
Dewey?
There's nothing. I'm coming down.
Two.
So you'll relieve me at 2:30...
And watch her til 8:00I've got to edit.
Where's Sid?
Damned if I know. She ditched me.
You weren't supposed to leave her alone.
I didn't say she was alone. That guy from her home town showed up. They went off together.
She's got guards with her.
What guy?
Randy somebody.
He seemed harmless.
Aren't most serial killers seemingly harmless?
Need some help, honey.
I got it..
Yeah, you look quizzical yet pensive.
Yeah, how can we help? Do you have any questions regarding the sequel of your life?
Ever see NATURAL BORN KILLERS? Well, Derek and I have this whole Mickey/MalloryWoody Harrelson/Juliette Lewis thing going on.
I really dont like that comparison, honey.
He hates Oliver Stone.
I find his work overwrought.
He sent me the cutest email.
I read her postings on the horror movie chat boards and fell hopelessly. Hook, line...
We have our own website now. We dedicated a whole page to you.
Youd me amazed at how many of us there are out there. Its a whole world, Sid. Youre really popular amongst the demented.
Youre the one who got away.
Until now.
Of course not. Who wants to? Whats the point if we dont get caught? Wheres the glamour in that?
The way I see it. Well be arrested. Go to prison. Cash in on the home footage. Secure a book deal. If all goes as planned, our trial should coincide with the release of STAB II.
A verdict and premiere all on the same day. I love it.
Were hoping for the death penalty. I have this whole DEAD MAN WALKING swan song exit planned.
And now, drum roll please...
Hope youre ready, Sid. We got one last surprise for you.
A twist ending if you will.
Yeah, we really had our work cut out for us. It really is the curse of the sequel. The Billy/Stu things been done.
..so we had to be different but yet the same because if you venture to far away from your orginal story you completely alienate the audience...
And we didnt want to do that, Sid. We wanted to give you your moneys worth.
So we found a compromise.
Or it found us.
We have a surprise guest star waiting in the wings.
Just for you, Sid.
Wait a sec, Derek. We forgot to flip.
Oh yeah. We figure the one of us that actually kills you will get a little more press. Its been an ongoing discussion. Heads or tails?
Tails.
We had to have financing.
Tuitions expensive.
How are you? You weren't in class. I called as soon as I heard...
I skipped. Too many "That's her" looks.
I'm sorry, baby. What can I do'?
Don't ask what you can do. No coddling. Life rolls on status quo.
It's okay. I can peddle toilet paper.
Sid, you don't have to.
Where have you been'? You missed my shining moment. I won the macaroni sundae binge.
I'm sorry honey. I got behind.
About what?
The forbidden subject.
Lemme take you home.
I'll get my jacket.
This is exactly what I don't want.
I think it's out of your control.
My screwed up life shouldn't have to bleed onto my friends.
Let us decide that.
What about your film? Isn't it due next week? Have you even started it?
It's under control.
I had the four o'clock shift. You weren't there. You had us worried. Is everything okay?
No, it's not.
I don't really know what happened in Woodsboro, Sid. But I know you don't trust me.
It's not you, Derek. I don't trust myself. I tend to make big selection errors when it comes to men.
Then I'll make this easy for you. I like you. I'm crazy about you, Sid. But I'm gonna stay away. Until you say otherwise.
Go on, untie him.
No. This is a set up.
Thats quick.
Why?
Good question. You took the bait.
Poor Cotton, could life be a little more cruel?
Youre not going to get away with this.
Yeah, were trying to send a message to Hollywood. Im really getting tired of all the happy endings. Its just not reality. In the real world the good guys die, the innocent are punished, and the murderers inherit the earth.
But nobody wants to see that. Itll never go. Theyll rewrite you. You dont want that.
How do you put up with this Greek shit?
Hey, it's cool. Hallie's into it, I'm into Hallie...
My documentary is due on Tuesday.
What's your subject?
I WAS A SORORITY SLUT.
I could use some therapy.
Should we be worried about this guy? Isn't it kinda weird he just showed up and now people are dying?
I think he's doing Dolly.
"And I hope life treats you kind and I hope you have all you dreamed of offffff. I wish you JOYYY."
Definitely Whitney.
Are they aware of your not so positive portrayal of Greek life?
Not one bit.
Where's Sid?
She dumped me.
No way.
Yeah.
You freakin?
Look, I'm sorry about the face.
Job hazard. Debbie Salt, stringer NEWSWEEK. Answer a few questions?
Fair enough.
What are you doing here? I thought you had retired from field reporting?
Well, you know I'm dear to the subject matter.
And much richer as a result.
Do I know you? You look familiar.
I took your vulture seminar seminar at Berkeley last year.
Good for you.
Hi, Gale, any leads?
Tons and tons.
Where is Sidney's father?
Homewhere he lives.
And are the police sure about that?
Why don't you ask them?
Already did. He's the perfect suspect, don't you think?
No, I don't.
Parents are always responsible. It all starts in the home.
Look, I know you kinda hold me up as your career template and it gives you some anal charge to challenge me but you win. Okay? I'm not interested in the scoop anymore. Excuse me.
I couldnt believe you didnt recognize me. You even interviewed me for your book.
Youre all in this together?
Jesus, youre just as whacked as your son.
Where do you think he got it? Mental illness is heriditary. Who do you think incouraged him to kill your mother? He was a smart kid but children need parental guidance.
What are you going to do?
Finish what my son started.
But youll never get away with it.
Enter Cotton Weary.
You know the story, Gale. Man falsely accused, sent to prison, proved innocent, released back into the real world and never trusted again. Want the exclusive?
Did you do it?
Now, Gale, you were so instrumental in my freedom. You're not having character doubts now, are you?
You have a right to be angry.
No, Gale, I don't have any rights. You made sure of that.
Cotton, I've done nothing but help you.
You've done nothing but get rich off of me. How many books have you sold, Gale? You think I don't understand points and royalties and ancilliary rights?
Don't do anything stupid, Cotton. You've come to far.
Gale, I don't know what I'm doing from one moment to the next. I'm just taking it as it comes.
Cotton.
Can we talk?
I don't think that's a good idea.
Look, yesterday wasn't my idea. That was all Gale and dollar signs and ratings.
What do you want from me, Cotton?
You could start with an apology.
I did that.
You wrote me a letter. Very cordial. Very appropriate.
How? What could I say that would make a difference? I took away a year of your lifehow do I apologize for that?
I wish it was just a year. I lost everything because of you. I have nothing now. Look at me, this is what I've become. A long silence. Sidney is hanging on by threads.
Cotton, there isn't one day, one hour, one minute when I'm not reminded of what I've done. I have not had one second of reprieve and no therapy or religion or spiritual plane can ever erase what I feel in every vein of my being. And I wish I had in me what you need to hear but I don't think the words exist.
I just thought if I saw you face to face, maybe it would help.
Did it?
It helped me realize one thing.
What?
You're a selfobsessed little cunt like your mother.
Its perfect, Sidney. No one will ever suspect me. I have proof. Im the victim.
Please, Cotton, dont do this.
I get my revenge and make some fast cash.
Its over, Cotton.
Not until youre dead.
Jesus, you scared me. What are you doing here?
I live here.
I thought you were going to the mixer?
I had to change. Did anyone call?
Just some asshole trying to scare me.
Tina, it's Dawnie. I'm on my way. Cici follows her back into the living room.
I'll go. I don't mind. Really.
Yes.
Who is this?
Cici. Who's this?
Someone who wants to talk to you.
Ted? Where are you? Are you drinking? Hold on.
Oh, I'm sorry. My bad. I thought you were someone else.
That's okay.
Who do you want to speak with? Nobody's here.
Where is everybody?
We're cosponsoring the Acid Rain mixer at the Sig Ep. house tonight.
Why aren't you there?
I'm designated driver. I have to be here in case a sister calls and needs a ride.
That's too bad.
"Drink with your brain." That's our motto. Who are you calling for?
What if I said you?
What if I said goodbye?
Why would you wanna do that?
Why do you always answer a question with a question?
I'm inquisitive.
I'm impatient. Look, do you wanna leave a message for someone?
Hello? Ted?
No, it's me.
WHAAAATT?
Don't forget to set the alarm.
No, they broke up again. Bailey won't stop drinking and Sarah can't take it anymore.
thought he was doing AA.
No, he quit  the whole God thinghe has issues. The previews for next week...
That shit. He only calls you when he's drunk. Don't go over there.
I won't.
Don't. Think Bailey.
Alright, alright...I'll call you back.
No, some creep asshole trying to scare me.
It's hell week. Chill. The movie murders have brought out the crazies. It's nothing.
Shit.
What is it?
I heard a noise.
Where?
Kill, kill, kill, kill, hah, hah, hah, hah...
Stop it...
I can't believe you're alone in that house.
Outside.
That's smart.
Don't do that. Hang up...call...
What? I can't hear you...
Hang up...call...
I'm losing you.
...campus security...send someone...check out...place...
Okay, okay. I'll call now. I'll call you back.
Have you checked the...
Attic, garage, basement, nothing.
Take the neighborhood.
We don't know if it's random. We haven't been able to connect the victims.
The first two were stabbed without thought. The sorority girl was gutted with autopsy precision.
Jesus Christ. Captain Tyler flies out of his seat and into action.
Find me every variation of Himbry and what was the other name...
He's broken his pattern.
They've broken their pattern.
You're sure about this two person thing?
Broad daylight, a crowded movie theatre. This is too much fun for one person.
I would say we are now officially baffled.
On national television.
We know that, son.
The killer was trying to get to her. That sorority girl was a distraction.
We're aware of that.
I can do it, Captain.
Thanks, Dewey, but I was thinking I'd pull Jesse off...
How's the name search going?
37 usages of Himbry located in the registar's office. 9 Tatum's, 47 Riley's. And that's just on campus. It's hopeless.
Can't we hold him?
No, we got pressure from California State. The man practically has clemency. We can't run the risk of falsely accusing him. He has to be standing over the victim with knife in hand before we make a move.
What now?
We're going to bring her in. Hide her out for a coupla days. And we're issuing a campus lockin this evening. No one is allowed out after dark.
That doesn't work, sir.
It's got nothing to do with reality, Oskar, I know it and you know it, it's a matter of national priority to these guys. It's got a ritual significance to them, Jews shoveling snow.
I lost a day of production. I lost a worker. I expect to be compensated.
File a grievance with the Economic Office, it's your right.
Would it do any good?
No.
A onearmed machinist, Oskar?
He was a metal press operator, quite skilled.
What's he done that's so bad  take money? That's a crime? Come on, what are we here for, to fight a war? We're here to make money, all of us.
There's taking money and there's taking money, you know that. He's taking money.
He's stealing from you, Oskar.
Of course he's stealing from me, we're in business together. What is this? I'm sitting here, suddenly everybody's talking like this is something bad. We take from each other, we take from the Army, everybody uses everybody, it works out, everybody's happy.
I was just the accountant.
Simple engineering, though, wouldn't you think? Change the machines around, whatever you do, you could make other things, couldn't you?
Once the war ends, forget it, but for now it's great, you could make a fortune. Don't you think?
I think most people right now have other priorities.
Get the contracts and I'm sure you'll do very well. In fact the worse things get the better you'll do. It was a "pleasure."
The contracts? That's the easy part. Finding the money to buy the company, that's hard.
Jews, yeah. Investors.
Jews can no longer own businesses, sir, that's why this one's for sale.
Well, they wouldn't own it, I'd own it. I'd pay them back in product. They can trade it on the black market, do whatever they want, everybody's happy.
Pots and pans.
Something they can hold in their hands.
I don't know anybody who'd be interested in that.
They should be.
What was that about the SS, the rate, the ... ?
The Jewish worker's salary, you pay it directly to the SS, not to the worker. He gets nothing.
But it's less. It's less than what I would pay a Pole. That's the point I'm trying to make. Poles cost more.
I could try to read this or I could eat my lunch while it's till hot. We're doing well?
Yes.
Better this month than last?
Yes.
Any reason to think next month will be worse?
The war could end.
What?
There's a machinist outside who'd like to thank you personally for giving him a job.
Don't ever do that to me again.
Do what?
You try to be fair to people, they walk out the door; I've never understood that. What's next?
Christmas presents.
Ah, yes.
This, I don't know, maybe you can trade it for something.
Thank you.
I got to go, I'll see you.
Oskar 
You think I don't know what you're doing? You're so quiet all the time? I know.
Are you losing money?
No, I'm not losing money, that's not the point.
What other point is 
It's dangerous. It's dangerous, to me, personally.
You have to understand, Goeth's under enormous pressure. You have to think of it in his situation. He's got this whole place to run, he's responsible for everything that goes on here, all these people  he's got a lot of things to worry about. And he's got the war. Which brings out the worst in people. Never the good, always the bad. Always the bad. But in normal circumstances, he wouldn't be like this. He'd be all right. There'd be just the good aspects of him. Which is a wonderful crook. A guy who loves good food, good wine, the ladies, making money...
And killing.
I'll admit it's a weakness. I don't think he enjoys it. All right, he does enjoy it, so what? What do you expect me to do about it?
There's nothing you can do. I'm not asking you to do anything. You came into my office.
I'll talk to him.
I think it's too late.
Well, I'll talk to somebody. I'll take care of it.
Four hundred, four fifty 
More.
Eight hundred, give or take.
Give or take what, Stern  how many  count them.
That's very generous of you.
Yes.
We need to talk.
Stern.
They arrived.
They arrived, can you believe it?
Well, that's to be expected. They have to understand. These are startup problems. This isn't pots and pans, this is a precise business. I'll write them a letter.
They're withholding payment.
Well, sure. So would I. So would you. I wouldn't worry about it. We'll get it right one of these days.
There's a rumor you've been going around miscalibrating the machines. I don't think that's a good idea.
No?
I know what you're saying, but I don't see the difference.
You don't? I do. I see a difference.
You'll lose money.
I'll talk to you later.
No, no, what, what is it?
I could've got more ... if I'd just ... I don't know, if I'd just ... I could've got more...
Oskar, there are twelve hundred people who are alive because of you. Look at them.
If I'd made more money ...I threw away so much money, you have no idea. If I'd just ...
There will be generations because of what you did.
I didn't do enough.
You did so much.
I'd never ask you for money, you know that. I don't even like talking about it  money, favors  I find it very awkward, it makes me very uncomfortable 
No, look. It's the others. They're the ones causing these delays.
What others?
Whoever. They're the ones. They'd appreciate some kind of gesture from me.
That'd be fine.
Done. Lets not talk about it anymore, let's have a good time.
The place produces nothing. I shouldn't say that  nothing it produces reaches the Army. That's not all right.
So I'll talk to him about it.
He's a friend of yours, you want to help him out. Tell me this, though  has he ever once shown you his appreciation? I've yet to see it. Never a courtesy. Never a thank you note. He forgets my wife at Christmas time 
He's got no style, we all know that. So, we should hang him for it?
He doesn't deserve your loyalty. More important, he's not worth you making threats against us.
Did I threaten anybody here? I stated a simple fact.
Oskar, good of you to come.
Are you kidding, I never miss a party. Police Chief Rasch, my wife Emilie.
How do you do?
Thank you.
I need a drink.
Oh, God, you don't have a drink?
Wine?
One of these days the Russians are going to show up unannounced at my gate. I'd like the chance to defend myself. I'd like my wife to have that chance. My civilian engineers. My secretary.
We're losing the war, aren't we.
It kind of looks that way.
Pistols?
Pistols, rifles, carbines ... I'd be grateful.
Like this?
There's nothing in the stores.
You have any idea what a shirt like this costs?
Nice things cost money.
How many?
I don't know, ten or twelve. That's a good color. Dark blues, grays.
How you feeling, all right?
Yeah.
What's the matter, everything all right at home? Mila's okay?
She's good.
What's wrong with it?
How should I know? It's broken. See what you can do.
Good. How's it going?
Things are great, things are great.
What are you doing?
I'm having a drink, come on in, we'll have a drink.
I mean where have you been? Nobody's seen you around for a while.
I've been here. I guess I haven't been out.
I thought maybe you'd like to come over, have some dinner, some of the people are coming over.
Yeah? Yeah, that'd be nice, let me get my coat.
I want to thank you, sir, for giving me the opportunity to work.
You're welcome, I'm sure you're doing a great job.
The SS beat me up. They would have killed me, but I'm essential to the war effort, thanks to you.
That's great.
I work hard for you. I'll continue to work hard for you.
That's great, thanks.
God bless you, sir.
Yeah, okay.
You're a good man.
What's that?
You don't recognize it? Maybe that's because it's not what I asked for.
You asked for shoe polish.
My buyers sold it to a guy who sold it to the Army. But by the time it got there  because of the cold  it broke, the whole truckload.
So I'm responsible for the weather?
I asked for metal, you gave me glass.
This is not my problem.
Look it up.
Ghetto Police. I'm a policeman now, can you believe it?
Yeah, I can.
Hey, Poldek, how's it going? You know about the list? You're on it.
Of course I'm on it.
You want to stay on it? What do you got for me?
What do I got for you?
Takes diamonds to stay on this list.
We started without you.
Good.
You know, they told me you were going to be trouble  Czurda and Scherner.
You're kidding.
He looks great, though, doesn't he? I have to know  where do you get a suit like that? what is that, silk? It's great.
I'd say I'd get you one but the guy who made it, he's probably dead, I don't know.
I go to work the other day, there's nobody there. Nobody tells me about this, I have to find out, I have to go in, everybody's gone 
They're not gone, they're here.
They're mine!
Every day that goes by, I'm losing money. Every worker that is shot, costs me money  I have to get somebody else, I have to train them 
We're going to be making so much money, none of this is going to matter 
It's bad business.
Some of the boys went crazy, what're you going to do? You're right, it's bad business, but it's over with, it's done. Occasionally, sure, okay, you got to make an example. But that's good business.
Scherner told me something else about you.
Yeah, what's that?
That you know the meaning of the word gratitude. That it's not some vague thing with you like with some guys.
True.
Do you have any idea what's involved? The paperwork alone? Forget you got to build it all, getting the fucking permits, that's enough to drive you crazy. Then the engineers show up. They stand around and they argue about drainage  I'm telling you, you'll want to shoot somebody, I've been through it, I know.
Well, you've been through it. You know. You could make things easier for me.
It's true. Never happen in Cracow, though, we all love you too much.
I pay you too much.
You held back Stern. You held back the one man most important to my business.
He's important to my business.
What do you want for him, I'll give it to you.
I want him. Come on, let's go inside, let's have a good time.
I tried to call you, I'm running a little late, this is taking longer than I thought. Have a drink.
What's going on?
I got a shipment of Hungarians coming in, I got to make room for them. It's always something.
You took my workers.
They're taking mine. When I said they didn't have a future I didn't mean tomorrow. Auschwitz.
When?
I don't know. Soon.
You want these people.
These people, my people, I want my people.
What are you, Moses? What is this? Where's the money in this? What's the scam?
It's good business.
Oh, this is "good business" in your opinion. You've got to move them, the equipment, everything to Czechoslovakia  it doesn't make any sense.
Look 
You're not telling me something.
It's good for me  I know them, I'm familiar with them. It's good for you  you'll be compensated. It's good for the Army. You know what I'm going to make? Artillery shells. Tank shells. They need that. Everybody's happy.
Yeah, sure.
If you admit to making three, then it's four, actually. But how?
I just told you.
You did, but you didn't.
Yeah, all right, don't tell me, I'll go along with it, it's just irritating to me I can't figure it out.
All you have to do is tell me what it's worth to you. What's a person worth to you.
Where are the guards?
The guards aren't allowed on the factory floor. They make my workers nervous.
Your friend Amon Goeth has been arrested.
I'm sorry to hear that.
There are some things that are unclear. We need to talk.
I'd love to, it'll have to wait until I get back. I have to leave.
All right, okay, let's talk.
In Breslau.
Breslau? I can't go to Breslau. Not now.
You know what, you'd like her.
Oskar, please 
What 
I don't have to like her just because you do. It doesn't work that way.
You would, though. That's what I'm saying.
It's not a charade, all this?
A charade? How could it be a charade?
Luck.
War.
What?
I feel like an oldfashioned couple. It feels good.
Should I stay?
It's a beautiful city.
Should I stay?
It's up to you.
He's essential. Without him, everything comes to a grinding halt. If that happens 
Itzhak Stern? He's on the list.
He is.
Well, let's find him.
He's on the list. If he were an essential worker, he would not be on the list. He's on the list. You can't have him.
I'm talking to a clerk.
What's your name?
Sir, the list is correct.
I didn't ask you about the list, I asked you your name.
Klaus Tauber.
The gentleman thinks a mistake's been made.
My plant manager is somewhere on this train. If it leaves with him on it, it'll disrupt production and the Armaments Board will want to know why.
Oskar  my friend Lena.
How do you do? What can I get you, what're you drinking?
Nothing's changed. Then again, something has changed, hasn't it?
Things worked out. I made some money over there, had some laughs, you know. It was good.
Now you're back.
Now I'm back, and you know what I'm going to do now? I'm going to have a good time. So are you.
We finally graduated, big dude guy!
Alright!
I love you man
I love you too.
Give me my firebird keys!
You must chill! You must chill! I have hidden your keys. CHILL!
I love you man.
Alright, I love you too. Go to sleep.
We're full on bonded.
Yeah, alright.
Later for you, Luke.
I got a question. If you guys know so much about women, how come you're here at like the Gas 'n' sip on a Saturday night completely alone, drinking beers, no women anywhere?
It's gotta stay purple. All night. Hey Lloyd, how ya doin'?
You know Diane Court?
Wow, man. Well. Listen man, I need you to be the keymaster.
Oh, I was just going to...
A very responsible young man you're out with tonight.
I was gonna...
Thanks a lot Lloyd.
I was just going to kind of move around.
You know, every year I throw this party, every year nobody helps me clear up. Why am I yelling?
I don't know.
I don't know. Good on you man. Alright Lloyd.
Maybe we'll come by tomorrow, help you clear up or something.
Diane, everybody loves that you showed up.
Certainly.
I am happy to say that this bag is officially empty.
Oh boy.
Hey.
Mike Cameron, how you doing?
What?
Mike Cameron. This is one fresh jam, huh?
Yeah.
Yeah, hey, oh god. Listen, I wanted to... I don't know you very well, you know, but I wanted to ask you, how did you get Diane Court to go out with you?
I called her up.
Yeah, but how come it worked? I mean like, what are you?
I'm Lloyd Dobler.
This is great, this gives me hope. Thanks.
Alright. Key?
Ooop, excuse me.
How you doin', brother?
I don't really know where we are.
Lloyd. Lloyd Dobler, I've got you.
How ya doin' Miss Evans?
You missed every one of your career counselling sessions. Call me obsessive, compulsive, but let's do this right now.
No way.
Lloyd.
What?
Don't make this like a counsel, Lloyd. I got statistics I can show you, I got graphs I can show you. That's all the stuff I can show you, it all says the same thing. You have to decide on a career.
My dad's a lieutenant colonel in the army, he wants me to join, he wants to pull some strings. I mean, there's no possible way.
We'll just make an appointment for you at Seattle Junior College.
Lloyd, everybody in that party put something down on their record except you.
How many people really know what they want though? I mean, a lot of them think that they have to know, right? But inside, they don't really know, so, I don't know. But I know that I don't know.
Hang tough, Lloyd.
Joe. Joe. She's written sixtyfive songs. They're all about you. They're all about pain.
So what's up?
Stop freaking with her head man. Just stop playing with her mind, you know? She's a human being. She's a person. She's very talented, you know.
Dude, why do you think I keep her tapes? They're going to be valuable some day.
My car.
Your car?
Diane Court.
Dude, I can't do it!
Jim Court?
Hello. May I please speak with Diane please?
Sorry, Diane isn't here at the moment.
Uh... okay... um...
Is this the guy with the Mustang?
No.
The guy with the Datsun?
No.
The truck?
Uh, no, not really, no actually, basically, you don't know me. I'm a friend of your daughters; well I sat with her yesterday at the mall.
Why don't I just get your phone number, that's usually how it works.
Oh. Okay then... Lloyd Dobler, 5551342.
Okay, I'll give here the message.
Okay. She's really pretty great, isn't she?
What?
She's really pretty great, isn't she?
Yeah, she is. Good luck.
Okay. Good afternoon. Goodbye.
Jim Court... no, this is her father. I'll take...
Hi. Lloyd Dobler, sir. Pleasure to meet you.
Hello Lloyd.
Hello. Heard about that graduation present. Really quite a car. Look, I know you're busy, you don't' have to retain me, but you can trust me. I'll tell you a couple of things about myself, I'm nineteen, been overseas for a couple of semesters, but now I'm back. I'm an athlete, so I rarely drink. Kickboxing. You heard of kickboxing, sport of the future? Don 'The Dragon' Wilson, Lenny [?] merciless, one of the champions of the sport? I can see by your face, no. My point is, you can relax because your daughter will be safe with me for the next seven to eight hours.
Fine Lloyd.
How ya doing? Is she around?
Yeah. Honey?
Thanks Lloyd.
How do you pay for one of those?
Well, we pay for the [?]. That guy didn't want to part with it, a little matter of nine thousand dollars.
Yeah Lloyd. What are your plans for the future?
Spend as much time as possible with Diane before she leaves.
Seriously, Lloyd.
I'm totally and completely serious.
No, really.
You mean like career? Uh, I don't know. I've, I've thought about this quite a bit sir, and I'd have to say considering what's waiting out there for me, I don't want to sell anything, buy anything or process anything as a career. I don't want to sell anything bought or processed, or buy anything sold or processed, or... process anything sold, bought or processed, or repair anything sold, bought or processed, you know, as a career I don't want to do that. So, uh, my father's in the army, he wants me to join, but I can't work for that corporation, so what I've been doing lately is kickboxing, which is really a, uh, new sport, but I think it's got a good future. As far as career longevity goes, I don't really know, because, you know, you can't really tell. Your training sticks as a fighter, you know, but it's no good, you know, you have to be great, but I can't really tell if I'm great until I've had a couple of pro fights. But I haven't been knocked out yet. I don't know, I can't figure it all out tonight sir, I'm going to hang with your daughter.
Hi, Lloyd. This is my eighth and final call...
Go ahead, pick it up if you want.
I just wanted to say that I've thought about everything, and I've decided something. I'm going to give you another chance. Maybe no one's listening, or maybe your father's listening. Mr Court, if you're listening to this, hello, how are you?
She wouldn't get out of the car. I brought her all the way here, she said she was going to come here, and she wouldn't get out of the car. But I thought that is was important, that she come to see you, because I know that if you go somewhere and you don't deal with your family stuff, then you're just gonna, she's gonna, um...
Are you going to England with her Lloyd?
That's one of the things I wanted to talk to you about sir.
Are you?
Am I going? Am I going to England? I've thought about this quite a bit, and I've realised what I probably should do is just carve out a goal for my future and find out what I wanna do with my life, do all the stuff that I've been avoiding in a big way. I mean, Diane and I can wait for each other, right? What's she gonna... she's gonna run off with some English guy? There's no way.
Well Lloyd, I admire you for not hitching a ride. You know, my daughter's a lot different to you.
I know.
She's very successful.
I know
Very talented.
I know. But then I reconsidered. 'Cause I figured out what I really wanna do with my life, what I want to do for a living is I wanna be with your daughter. I'm good at it.
You're not a permanent part of her life. You're a distraction.
I'm the distraction that's going to England with her sir. Are you alright sir? Are you okay?
I'm incarcerated, Lloyd! I don't deserve to lose my daughter over this. I don't deserve to have you as my gobetween. And I can't for the life of me figure out how she could choose to champion in mediocrity the way she flirts around you.
"You can't know the horrible disappointment I feel..."
I know this part, keep reading.
She can't still be angry at this, it's gotta get better.
It does, it does if it's the version signed 'I still can't help loving you'. Read that.
Just her name.
Just knowing a person like that exists, knowing that for a minute that she felt that and wrote 'I still can't help loving you'. That's gotta be a good thing, right? That's gotta be a good thing.
Yeah.
Yeah, you gotta go 'YEAH', strength. Poor little man.
YEAH!
He's back. Hey my brother, can I borrow a copy of your 'Hey Soul Classics'?
No my brother, you have to go buy your own.
Hook up the jab, hook up the jab.
PAIN!
Work that jab, work that hook, work that jab, okay, take a break, take a break.
Man, all you gotta do is find a girl who looks just like her, nail her, and then dump her man, get her off your mind.
Your only mistake is that you didn't dump her first. Diane Court is a showpony. You need a stallion, my friend. Walk with us and you walk tall.
It's your castle, man.
Man, you never had a chance with a girl like that.
Hey man, I was in love once. I got hurt really bad. I never wanna go through that again.
Man, you're bringing me down!
You're freaking out here man.
You've gotta get her out of your head, man.
Thankyou. The real world.
Look at those eyes.
No noise, no sound, no movement, nothing! Hello, Diane?
Hi. You called me?
Yeah. I read about your fellowship in the paper, and I'm very glad you called me back.
Yeah?
Yeah. I just wanted to congratulate you on your scholarship to England, and I wanted to tell you that I thought your speech was really incredible.
Thank you very much.
Whoah, what a day, huh?
Yeah. What a day.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Quick question  do you know who I am?
Yes, we sat together at Bell's Square.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. You remember?
No, I read it on the message.
Okay, um, so it's Lloyd and... uh... uh... let's go out. Do you wanna go out?
Oh, thanks, but I'm busy.
Busy?
Yes. Things are pretty hectic right now, but thanks.
Are you busy on Friday?
Yeah, I have to help my father.
Are you busy on Saturday?
Saturday, I have some things to do around the house.
So you're monumentally busy?
Well, not monumentally.
What about tonight then, are you going to that party at Valhere's?
Hmmm....
Look Diane, I'm sorry, but I can't allow you to leave the country without going to Valhere's graduation party. This gentleman, he's twentytwo, and he comes out of hiding once a year for this occasion, and he dresses up as the Lakeside rooster, and he,
Actually, I think that I...
Y'know, you're not in England yet, you know that of course, and by the way, I want to just tell you that I lived in England for a few months,
Well...
No tips. I won't give you any tips of any kind.
I'll go.
Pardon me?
I'll go.
You will? Excellent, alright, this is great. You will, really?
Alright. This is really great. Alright, we're going out. It's a date. It's a scam. Whatever, whatever, alright, I'll pick you up at what, eight O' clock?
Eight.
Eight. Eight O' clock.
Goodbye.
Goodbye.
Whoa.
Would you hold this for me?
Yeah
What are these?
They're Bavarian Death style pretzels.
Oh. Um, would it be terrible if I wanted to go home early?
No.
Keymaster?
Yeah, I have to judge who can drive home and who can't. I have to keep their keys.
So it's an honor?
No.
So we can finally talk?
Yeah.
He does this every year?
It's the worst job since keymaster.
Thankyou.
I hereby surrender my duties as keymaster, give me a beer.
Have a good sleep.
Bye.
Alright, this is some of the things they wrote me; "Glad I finally met you", "You always seemed nice", "Wish I could have known you more"...
Mine say stuff like "Lloyd, see you around maybe"
Nobody knew me before tonight.
They knew of you. Now they know you.
Yeah, but I feel like I fit in for the first time, you know? Like I just held them far away from me, and they did the same to me.
That's cool then.
Yeah. I'm so glad we did this.
It's just you and your dad, right?
Yeah, but that's an old story, you don't want to hear it.
Sure I do.
Well, my parents split up when I was thirteen, and... god, I actually had to... I went into court and I had to choose between the two of them. So I chose my dad. It just felt safer that way, you know?
Watch out for that glass.
Thanks. But either way it still feels...
Twisted?
You know what?
What?
You're a great date. I've never really gone out with someone as basic as you.
Basic. Hmmm.
So what's your job this summer?
Job? Being a great date.
No, I'm serious.
So am I. I want to see you again. I want to see you as much as I can before you leave. I said it.
I only have something like sixteen weeks.
Sixteen weeks is a long time.
Then call me tomorrow.
Today is tomorrow.
Then call me later.
Yeah.
Or, or I could always wear this one.
Boy, this is a mother dictionary.
Yeah, I've had it forever. I used to have this thing with marking the words that I looked up.
Nice one.
Yeah?
I think you should wear that.
You think so?
Mmmm.
Oh.
I had a checklist in mind. I thought that if babies were on the plane, the plane couldn't crash. But all the babies were crying, and I thought they knew something I didn't.
After work?
I usually have a break after the dinner service, if you want to stop by.
Won't you see me later?
I know you think my job is strange. You don't like old people, do you?
Me? Sure I do.
Come on.
Well, except for one thing. I used to work at a smorgasbord, and, and the old people would flock there, and, and they loved to eat. And they just jammed their mouths, you know? The used to eat with their mouths open, and you know, it's just too much for me. You get to be thinking about how short life is, and how maybe, maybe has no meaning because you wake up and you're frying burgers
I think that's ageism, and that's, that's being prejudiced against people because they're old. Maybe their mouths don't work as well as yours.
Really? Um... I... well... you're really turning me around here,
Stop by later.
Okay, bye, I will.
Okay, bye.
I'll see you there. Bye.
You have to meet Bess.
Okay.
She's amazing. She's ninetythree, she's a writer, and I told her about you.
Wait, wait. You told her about me?
Yes.
What did you say?
Well... just meet her.
It's okay, everybody does that.
I just don't want it to get too heavy. I feel really overloaded. I have this theory of convergence, that good things always happen with bad things. But I know you have to deal with them at the same time, but I just, I mean I don't know why they have to happen at the same time, I mean, I don't know why, I just wish I could work out... Am I just babbling? Do you know what I mean?
No.
I just can't have any social life right now.
Don't worry about it. We're just having coffee. We'll be anti social.
Be friends?
Yeah. With potential.
Friends with potential.
Yeah, just keep going first, keep going around. Get the feel of it, feel the clutch, when you put it in a little?
Yeah.
You know how it'll come out and feel... y'know... little more, little more... Yeah, yeah, that's right. Go round just at first, keep it in first, just feel it.
I'm doing alright.
Yeah. Now, when you feel like you're confident,...
Yeah?
If you'll just maybe ease it into second.
Right.
Okay, this is important...
Am I wrecking my car?
Yeah, a little bit. Listen, this is important. When you feel it start to give, put the clutch in.
Oh. I was putting the...
Little more gas. Ease it up. Hold on minor setback. Now you feel confident, right?
Yeah.
Now, go into second. Little more gas... Yeah! You can get this whole problem. Now, maybe you downshift to first?
This is so noble.
Well no, it's not noble, but it's a good aid to your lesson.
Let's get outta here. You want to?
Yeah.
Are you comfortable?
Yes. Are you shaking?
No.
You're shaking.
I don't think so.
You're cold.
I don't think I am.
Then why are you shaking?
I don't know. I'm happy.
Here are some blankets. This is a good song, this is a really good song.
Check your mail tomorrow. I sent you a letter, a letter.
Your letter came yesterday.
It did?
Uhhuh. It was wonderful.
Why didn't you tell me?
It was wonderful.
I've never sent a letter like that, you know? I mean, I felt like I wanted to tell you something, but I didn't put it in the letter, and I didn't say it, but I want to say it now, I'm not sure if I should say it, you know, 'cause people always say it and don't mean it, but I think that I mean it, so, um, I just wanted to tell you...
No, we don't have to say it.
How do you know what I'm going to say?
I don't know what you're going to say, but I think that...
I was just going to tell you that I love you. I said it.
I know. Lloyd, let's not start putting things on this level.
What? This is a good level, isn't it?
How can I look at you and say this?
Say what?
I think that we should spend some time apart.
What's wrong?
Well, I need to study, and...
You need to study?
Yeah.
Okay, how much time do you need? I mean, you know, I mean you'll be leaving in a little while, so that's answered some questions.
We'll see.
Okay. It's good knowing this.
Yeah, uhhuh.
Okay, what did we just decide?
We decided...
'Cause I'm worried, did you just break up with me?
No, no.
It sounded like you did.
No. We decided that we're friends. I mean, I know it's a terrible word...
Well, if we're friends, why can't we see each other?
I think that we should stop going out on dates.
I feel like a dick. You must think I'm a dick.
No, I don't, I don't.
Yeah you do.
Lloyd, we shared the most intimate thing two people can share.
You shared it with a dick.
No I didn't.
Is this because of your dad?
No.
Did you talk to Corey?
Why, did you tell Corey what happened?
She figured it out. I'm sorry if that upsets you.
No, that's fine. She'll tell everybody, but that's fine.
Did you tell anybody?
Just my dad.
You told your dad?
You have Corey and DC. I have my dad.
What, I'm sorry I said that. Forget I said it, it's what I thought I meant, but forget it.
Lloyd, I love you, okay?
What is that? What are you doing with your hands? Talk to me, you're talking like that girl Sheila.
Don't be mean, this is hard for me too.
Then don't do it.
Oh shit.
What do you want?
I'm sorry.
What do you want?
My father's guilty. He lied to me, he lied to everybody. I just left home... I need you.
You do?
Everything else means nothing to me. If I hurt you again, I'll die.
Hurt me again? Not a chance, don't worry about it.
I love you.
What?
I love you. How many more times do I have to say it?
One more time would be nice.
I love you. Please, I love you.
I'm fine.
Okay, good, this is all very noble.
Okay.
Alright, high level air safety tips. If anything happens, it'll usually be in the first five minutes of the flight, right?
Okay.
So when you hear the smoking sign go 'ding', you know everything's going to be okay.
Good to know.
Right, I'm just going to keep talking until that ding happens, which is going to be soon.
Okay.
Alright, personalised flight care from Corey. Books, cassettes, magazines, anything?
Not right now, thanks.
How's it going?
Nobody thought we'd do this. Nobody really thinks it's going to work, do they?
No. You just described every great success story. Alright, it's alright.
I know.
Mom, please?
Diane, I do have a history with this man, and it's not the greatest. I see you so seldom, I'd really rather know about you.
This is me telling you about me.
You know, I don't even know if you've got a young man in your life?
I just wonder what could be more important than what's going on with dad.
If we could just talk about boys everything would be so much easier. You know, your room is always ready for you, you can always come home if... alright, what do you want me to do?
If they ask you questions, and they probably will ask you questions, would you please say something nice about him mum? Help him?
Alright.
You will?
Okay. Oh, here's Ray. Just talk to him because when you don't, your mouth turns down.
Well, it's almost over. We've gone to school together for three years... I might cut that part out.
Why? It's fine. It's nice.
Having taken a few courses at the university this year, I have glimpsed our future, and all I can say is... go back.
Ha! Go back! What a great line!
You like it?
Oh yeah!
I didn't think anyone would get it.
Oh no, no, it's... it's wonderful. It's... no, don't worry about it. You're very funny. Go back, that's great!
Alright, no more, I'm going to save it.
Okay.
Ha!
Well, it's almost over. We've gone to school together for three years, and we've been through a lot. But with that training out of High School gone, what's going to happen to us? We all know what the answers are. We want to be happy, go to college, own a car, maybe raise a family. But what if that doesn't happen? I have, I have to be honest though, I have all the hope and ambition in the world. But when I think about the future, the truth is, I am really...scared.
Dad, you have to teach me to suture this weekend.
Okay, I promise I will. Just come here a minute, I want to show you something.
What are you doing?
Well, since I'm not only your father, I'm also your friend; I had to get you two presents.
God, that's... this is ridiculous.
Now this is the only thing your mother ever gave me that I kept. Now it's yours. Go ahead, open it.
Oh god, I don't need all these presents. I don't know any kid who got a car, I mean...
They really applauded you today honey.
I was standing up there and looking at all the people, and I felt like they didn't know me. I mean, maybe I shouldn't have taken all those courses out of school, because everybody thinks I... forget it.
No, wait a minute. Everybody thinks you're what?
Everybody thinks I'm a priss.
Diane, in a million years, you could never be a... priss. It's all working out for you honey, don't you see? It's all working out, just like we planned. All the years of summer school, all the vacations you gave up, it's all working out just the way we planned...
Stop it, stop it, stop it.
I'm sorry.
I love you dad.
I love you too honey.
What?
I just had a phone call.
Tell me, is it bad news?
No, no, just listen. You won the Wreath fellowship.
Are you kidding? You're not kidding? You're not kidding!
You won it. You're going to study at the finest institute at England, the toughest fellowship in the country, and you won.
I won?
You're going to take a big step, a big leap, and before you do, I just want one thing from you, miss. You stand up straight and admit you're special.
God, I'll have to go on a plane.
We'll worry about that later. Now come on, tell me that you're special.
Don't do this to me. You're too good at making me nervous.
No, listen to me. You're the best in the country, don't you understand? It's like a pyramid. It starts out with everybody, and it narrows through your life and through everything, and all the hoopla and the competition narrows it down to one brilliant person who is so special that they celebrate you on two continents. And it's you. So tell me something, where's the flaw in that? There is no flaw.
Morning honey.
Dad, I'm so glad I went. Goodnight.
Wait a minute. How was Lloyd?
Lloyd was such a gentleman. He was funny and nervous and strange, and I met people that I never would have met before, then I blew it. I called him basic. Can you believe I did that?
Well, I don't think he's really been embarrassed by it.
Goodnight.
Goodnight.
She's not the world's greatest flyer, let me tell you. When she was eight years old, she...
Dad.
Now why can't I tell the story?
Well, let me start it. I'm flying down to Los Angeles on business, and I decide to take her on her first aeroplane.
I knew how planes flew, but I was still a little nervous.
Crash paranoia.
So anyway, they closed the doors, and she starts to scream. I've never in my life heard anyone scream quite like that.
And then you got up and you told them to turn the plane around.
Which they did. Let me finish.
Okay, I give up.
So anyway, these two federal marshals meet the plane, and they take our address, and they ask us never to fly with 'Friendly Skies' again.
Oh yeah. There was, uh, somebody on the plane worked in a recording studio, and, uh, we got this telephone call, this guy is making a sound effects record, and he'd gotten our address and he wanted to know if he could come over and record her scream.
Which they did, and every once in a while on a commercial, you can hear me scream.
Morning.
Dad, I'm sorry.
You should be.
I was irresponsible, I should have called.
You bet you should have called. You still live at home. Don't make me call the police at threethirty in the morning, don't make me call hospitals.
Dad, I'm so sorry. I know this is a bad time.
You've always called before, always. Now I'm not asking what you did, I just want to know that you're alright.
I'm fine.
Do you wanna make things easier on me? Now tell me where you were because this is, this is bullshit. You can say anything to me, I hope you still know that.
I know that.
Lloyd?
Dad, yes. And I'm scared to death of what you must think of me right now.
Sit down.
Did he ever get rough with you?
Dad, no. But I didn't want any problems, so I decided not to sleep with him.
Dad, maybe I shouldn't go with all that's happening to you.
You're going.
But listen, if I had a friend in the same position, I would tell her to delay a year.
You're going.
It doesn't feel right to me. I, I don't even have the right luggage yet.
Bon voyage.
You're not listening to me.
Diane! Alright, let's stop this right now. Let's not put our energy into something ridiculous. This isn't even smart thinking.
Dad, why are you acting this way? Is this because of the other morning?
Do you love him?
I like him a lot.
Well listen to me. Now, I know you like him, I know he's nothing like those frat kids you can't stand, but honey, after the excitement wears off, then what, huh? What are you going to talk about? What do you have in common? You're going to be part of an international thinktank, and he's going to be kicking punching bags.
Unbelievable. This is a nightmare.
Diane, you owe it to yourself to get on that plane with no attachments, no strings, because after you get over there, things are going to change. People change.
Dad, you and I have talked about this. Lloyd and I have talked about this. Believe me, this is wellcovered territory.
Diane, I'm not asking you to sever all relations with the boy. Give him a present, here, let him know you still care. Give him this pen.
Dad, in a million years, I would never give him a pen. What's wrong with having some fun? I like him.
'I like him'? Diane, I'm talking about being honest with people, being decent...
Dad, I love him.
If I pick it up, we'll only get back together.
Well then don't pick it up. You know what's best.
Dad, are you okay in there?
Just finishing up in here.
What happened to you?
Dad, did you do it? Did you take that money?
Sweetheart, no. Don't be ridiculous.
Swear to god, I need to know the truth.
Honey!
Swear to god.
I swear to god.
But I found the money.
Honey, it's not what you think.
What am I supposed to think?
Honey, about what?
You stole from them, you lied to me. How do you think that's supposed to make me feel?
You think you know what this money is?
Yes, I...
No, you don't know what it is. It's not for me. This money's for you, for when you come back from England with honors to set you up, so you don't have to depend on anybody again. Diane, I take better care of these people than their families do. I care for them, I give them flowers, I feed them, I wipe their mouths...
No, but you stole from them.
I made their lives better.
You let me believe you. You knew you were guilty, and you let me become a part of it. God, how... how could you...
Alright, alright. Go ahead. When I'm old, give me someone like me, but go ahead.
I trusted you. I stood up in court five years ago and I picked you.
Why are you being so hateful to me? Is this because of Lloyd?
No. I told you everything, you lied to me. I would have done anything for you.
That's right, work it out.
No, I will. I don't want to leave something out because I know I can say anything to you. You're a liar, and a thief.
Take it easy how mad you make me, I'm the only dad you've got.
I'm so ashamed dad.
Don't say that, it's not good for you. You're...
You're right.
Hello.
Hi.
I don't know what to say to you, except goodbye.
Lloyd, she's being difficult.
I'm going to take out Diane Court again.
That was a mistake. The rain on my car is a baptism. The new me. Iceman, power Lloyd. My assault on the world begins now. Believe in myself, answer to no one... You probably got it all figured out, Corey. If you start out depressed, everything's kind of a pleasant surprise.
Look, why don't you just call Diane again?
Visit her at the home.
I'm not going back there. I don't even know who you're talking about.
Lloyd, why do you have to be like this?
'Cause I'm a guy, I have pride.
I can't give you that. This guy's been ripping off grandma and grandpa for seventeen years. He's been getting it from every end. I'd love to hear his story.
One hundred thousand dollar fine and three months?
One hundred and twentyfive thousand and nine months.
I can accept that.
And I want to turn the home over to the state.
He'd like to start serving immediately.
I can put that together.
Confirm this with my office and my client.
I'll put this past my boss
Alright.
I wrote sixtythree songs this year. They're all about Joe, and I'm going to play every single one of them tonight.
I just saw Joe. He's here.
Well, you don't have to be so dramatic about it.
Why?
It's too much pressure, it's not his crowd.
What is wrong with this girl?
Hey, I know this is a strange thing to say, but maybe Diane Court really likes Lloyd.
If you were Diane Court, would you honestly fall for Lloyd?
I don't feel anything.
Come on, it's graduation.
Did you see what Mr Carroll wrote in my yearbook? Well, he ridiculed me all year long, and then he writes, "You're a real livewire, Love Mr Carroll." Y'know, it's all so phoney.
He wants to leave things on a good note.
Well, where Mr Carroll uses the word 'love', I look for a new word.
Trapped in the body of a gameshow hostess.
Diane Court does not realise how goodlooking she is.
I wouldn't get my hopes up Lloyd.
I'm sorry. It's just you're a really nice guy, and we don't want to see you get hurt.
Lloyd is doomed.
Meaning?
Meaning that she made the second date a family audition, which is the kiss of death for Lloyd.
I told him to be himself.
He's got that nervous talking thing. I told him not to speak.
Lloyd, it's us.
Look at his face, he did the deed.
You're an inspiration Lloyd; you should go on the seven hundred club or something.
Wait a minute.
You've got to show her respect, you've got to show her that you're not like Joe...
Wait a minute.
And above all, just because this happened gives you no right whatsoever...
You know I just sit here listening, and you never let me talk.
What? I'm sorry, talk.
I've forgotten what I was going to say... okay, okay, I remember. Let him do what he wants.
"Dear Diane, I'll always be there for you, all the love in my heart, Lloyd." I've never gotten a letter like this, have you?
I dream about it.
That's unlikely.
The movies are a good second date, you know, as a date?
But you never had a first date.
Yes I did I sat across from her in a mall. We ate together. We ate, that's eating, sharing an important physical event.
That's not even a scam.
What's a scam?
Going out as friends.
Then what's love?
I'm gonna call her.
Diane Court doesn't go out with guys like you. She's a brain.
Sounds great to me, I'm going to call her, that's what's cool about her.
Brains stay with brains. The bomb could go off and their mutant genes would form the same cliques.
Look at those eyes.
Lloyd, give it up.
Do me a favor; take a picture of me with her.
Lloyd.
C'mon, just do it.
C'mon Lloyd.
Please?
That's just so embarrassing.
Please? COREY Alright. Alright, Okay, here.
Wait for me for when I get round to the front.
Okay, I got it.
You are such a great person Lloyd. I'm a good person, but you are a great person.
Hang in there, man.
Yes.
See you tomorrow.
See you. Bye. Bye Diane.
Did you sleep with her?
I admit nothing.
Alright, alright, alright, calm down, alright, calm down. Nothing's different.
Lloyd, listen to me. EVERYTHING has changed. You've had sex. No matter what you might think, nothing will ever be the same between you two. You might be sixty. You might be walking down the street, and you'll talk to her about something, whatever. But what you'll really be thinking is 'We had sex'.
So, what's your point?
You've got to do something special. You've got to make a statement.
Alright.
Lloyd, send her flowers, write her a letter. Something.
I already did.
What does it say?
Read it.
I draw the line at seven unreturned phone calls.
Lloyd, you have to understand her family is being ripped apart. Like you and she were ripped apart. Like Joe and I were ripped apart.
No, you're not a guy.
I am.
The world is full of guys. Be a man. Don't be a guy.
If she wants me, she can come to me.
Lloyd?
Hey, sis.
I'm sorry. Sam had to do a new crown, we had [?], and Jason had a sore throat. Your big graduation, and no one was there.
It's no problem. I called Mom and Dad in Germany; it's like they were there.
I hope you understand.
Hey, bad throat, huh Jman?
Why do you eat that stuff? There's no food in your food. Not too loud, the red line's there for a reason.
How do you know how to draw the red line anyway?
Because it's loud enough so the neighbors don't complain, that's how come I know.
Good thing there's not a red line on you, Jman. YEAH!
Why can't you be his uncle and not his playmate?
Jesus Christ. I get in a good mood. How hard is it just to decide to be in a good mood, and then be in a good mood?
Gee, it's easy.
Look, I'm really sorry that Mom and Dad made you take me in. Really. If it's such a big deal, I'll go. But remember this, it used to be fun. It used to be warped, twisted and hilarious, and I mean that in the best possible way, I mean it as a compliment. I mean, I'm sorry TIM left you. But I am not TIM.
I was hilarious once, wasn't I?
Yeah.
I still am.
You're tough, Jman.
He's a mess!
I'll be in my office.
I just washed this shirt, didn't I?
No, no, don't go in there.
Forget it, forget it, it's mine, it's mine!
Hello Constance. It's me, Lloyd... nothing, I'm just driving around... she broke up with me... what do I do? Can't she come back? How can I get her back?... I can't think, talk to me... I fucked up... I feel like crying... she gave me a pen. I gave her my heart and she gave me a pen.
Lloyd, honey, just come home, okay?
I'll be home soon.
Hi.
Is it a gift for your wife? Are you getting a set together?
No, I'm not married. It's for my daughter.
For going to school?
Yeah, she won a fellowship.
Good for her.
I'll take the whole set.
Excellent.
Thanks, I like yours too.
Listen, I don't know your name, but what are you doing for lunch?
I'm sorry, but they turned down your card.
Oh yeah, let me give you another card.
Okay, thanks.
Keep it.
You're sure?
Yeah, I don't want it. Um, thank you very much. You're very kind.
Jesus. What, I live in a palace, right? I have guests here.
Understanding the following rights...
Speak with my lawyer.
So you refuse to answer my questions?
Just come down to my place of business, for god's sake. I have people here.
Mr Court, be aware that we will be contacting a number of your business associates...
This evening is over.
And your former wife.
The, uh, Cynthia Branson estate was worth how much? Because her family...
What family? We never heard from them. I sold her house for them, made them money.
Hmmm. Your income, Mr Court, hasn't changed substantially in seventeen years.
That's right.
Why would you stay so long with an operation that is so clearly not a growth enterprise?
Taking care of people isn't a growth enterprise, Mr Sims. I hope you write that down in your report, I'd like your bosses to read it.
I'm supposed to be leaving on a fellowship that I worked for my entire life. I don't even care. I met this boy over the summer, and I, I can't see him because of this, I can't talk to him, I can't talk to my father about... I wore these clothes, I thought, I thought that if I looked right and if I acted right then someone would talk to me. But I look awful and I feel awful, could you, could you please talk to me? Be a little decent.
We believe that your father operates in a large pool of cash that comes from phoney billings, phoney patients. We've been investigating him for five years. We believe that when they die, he takes their money.
Pardon me?
Look, why don't you check it out for yourself? See if your father fits the profile.
What's the profile?
Well, take a look around the house. Is everything nice, but not too nice? Are there lots of, uh, rugs, pieces of art, stereo equipment, uh, furniture, a lot of things bought with cash? Does he give a lot of gifts? Do the major items in your house cover around the nine thousanddollar range?
You're trying to get me to say something, that's why you're telling me all of this.
Don't let your father's business infect your life.
How can you, how can you say that?
Because he's guilty.
No, no he's not.
We have records. We have proof. I'm sorry to be the one to have to tell you this, but it's going to get worse. Now, if I were you, I would take that fellowship.
Demolition, right?
Since I was nine years old. They got a lot of explosives around mines. Me and my little brother could get into any warehouse you ever saw. Damn, we had fun!
How do you do it?
It's easy, it runs in my family, take my grandfather, for example...
You think he really believed it?
Who knows? It worked.
How fast?
Twentyfourfive.
Shit, that's nothing, I ran twenty two flat.
So, where are you from?
Get lost.
But everybody's heard of him, he won the Congressional Medal of Honor, he saved a dozen men.
We know.
Somebody must know where he's from, what he did for a living.
Sir, I ran the 220 in high school.
He's fast, Captain, I saw him.
On guard, glancing back. Pissed off.
Goddamn it...Goddamn it...Goddamn it...
Freaked out. Trying to keep his eyes on the perimeter. Can't.
I don't know, I kind of like Wade's idea about the cruise ship. I've never been to Tahiti.
What about you, Captain?
Shit, sir.
Fertilizer, Captain, I think we're in a cranberry bog.
Out of the frying pan, into the fucking latrine.
Who cares?
I care. Don't you know what Caen's famous for, Sarge?
Frogs?
Lingerie.
Yeah? So?
I usually like surprises.
What are we likely to run into?
Damn fool. Sir.
Captain, he's fast!
Jesus, Reiben, think of the poor bastard's mother.
Hey, I got a mother. Jackson, you got a mother?
So what? I've got three satchel charges, six gammon grenades, a dozen andahalf pineapples, and all my regular gear. You don't hear me complaining.
That's because, as I have pointed out on numerous occasions, you are a happy idiot.
No, I just happen to take the Captain's advice and look at the bright side of things.
Oh, Christ, now we gotta listen to that grandfather thing again.
As I was saying, before I was so rudely interrupted, my grandfather got old, as grandfathers tend to do. He needed someone to take care of him. We move around all the time, going from one mine to another, so we had to put him in a home. Nice enough place but kind of depressing. But not for Granddad. He just convinced himself he was on a cruise ship, going to Tahiti, he had his own cabin, first class, with room service. It just so happened that the weather was always lousy, so he never bothered to go up on deck. Happiest guy you ever saw until the day he died.
Fine, you convince yourself you got a pack full of feathers and goddamned Private James Ryan can carry my fucking gear.
Reiben, you can be very unpleasant to be around sometimes.
You want unpleasant? Just wait, I can do much better than this.
Look at Upham, you don't hear him complaining.
Wade's right, it's some kind of scientific, magnetic thing, I can't explain it, but I've seen it.
We all have, he's got nine lives, or he's bulletproof, or some damn thing.
Hell, I don't mind this mission, sir, as long as there's something up at Ramelle for...
...for you to blow up, yeah, yeah, we heard that.
Private. I'm sorry about your brothers but staying here and getting yourself killed isn't going to help.
Sir, if the Krauts are holding this bridge when division shows up, our guys are going to be sitting ducks.
This bridge cannot be held. The Germans have two companies less than three miles from here. They have tanks.
The hell you aren't, you're comin' with me if I have to drag you every inch of the way. You hear me, Private?
I hear you sir, but I'm not leaving.
Thank you, sir.
Yeah, yeah. I want you right next to me, no matter where I go, you understand?
Yes, sir.
Alright, come with me.
I'd like to go, sir.
No, private, I want you to stay here, keep your head down, don't do anything brave or stupid.
Don't do that again.
I won't need to sir, it's already here, behind the barricade so...
You set? Sarge nods.
Yes, sir.
Is jumped on by one. Upham FIRES. KILLS the German.
Struggling with a pair of Germans.
Doesn't move. He just stares at Sarge's body.
Looks at Miller, sees him growing weak, starting to sway. He gently tries to move Miller aside.
FIRES THE EIGHTYEIGHT.
Races through the debris. Trailed by BULLETS.
Yes, Private.
Upham and Jackson, what were they like?
Upham? Good kid, smart, he was writing a book.
Yeah?
Jackson was from West Fork, Tennessee, he was going to be a preacher, his father and uncles have a traveling ministry out of the back of a stretch Hudson.
And Sarge?
Sarge? He was the best friend I ever had. Lemme tell you about Sarge...
Captain, can I put in for a transfer?
Sure, meet me at the top, we'll start the paperwork.
Sir, what if they send some other company into Caen ahead of us while we're pinned down here?
Don't worry, we're the only Rangers this side of the continent, we've got to be first into Caen.
So, you ever heard of employee discounts? My uncle sells shoes, gets twentyfive percent off everything in the line, got a closet filled with the best looking shoes you ever seen.
Just picture some French number been spending all day, every day, making creamcolored, shearbody negligees with gentlelift silk cups and gathered empire waists, what the hell you think she wears at night?
Reiben, how the hell do you know so much about lingerie?
Lingerie is my life, sir. My mother's got a shop in Brooklyn, I grew up in it, from the time I could crawl, we carry Caen lingerie, it's the best there is, it's all I been thinking about since the invasion.
There's a war on, good chance they're not still making lingerie in Caen.
Oh, Captain, they'll always make lingerie, it's one of the three basic needs of man  food, shelter, silk teddies. Miller Dream on, private.
I don't think so, Captain.
Stay at it until you get fire control. Keep 'em down, wait for the navy.
Strides through the chaos, avoiding the passing vehicles. He sees his men and walks toward them. Reiben hurries up to Miller, pleading.
Please, sir, you can't take me to Ramelle, I gotta go to Caen, sir, please, I told you, they make Caen lingerie there, it's beautiful, it's the best there is, it's...oh, please, sir...
Sorry, I need a B.A.R. man, you're the best.
No, I'm not, Kaback is, honest. Or what about Faulkner? Or that little guy with the glasses?
Trust me, you're the best.
But, sir...
Captain, can I ask you a question?
Sure, Reiben.
Where are you planning on putting Private Ryan, sir?
Captain, I gotta tell you, the irony of this mission is fucking killing me.
Yeah, how so?
I should be on my way to Caen, sir. It's like Beethoven, the guy's one of the greatest composers ever lived and he goes deaf. Go figure, I mean, who'd he piss off? And here I am, the Beethoven of ladies foundation garments, one step away from Caen, the center of the known lingerie universe and instead, I'm going to Ramelle to save some fucking private who's probably already dead.
There's to be a bright side, look for it.
Sir, you know what Ramelle is famous for? Cheese. The rest of the company is going to Caen and we're going to the goddamned cheese capital of France. There is no bright side.
There's always a bright side.
I'm listening, sir.
Well, I, for one, like cheese.
General Gavin is going to be very irritated at you, Captain.
Stands on the edge of the woods, almost in a trance.
Jesus Christ, he's a natural!
Upham, are you sure you've never been in combat?
Captain, could you please explain the math of this mission to me?
Sure, what do you want to know?
Well, sir, in purely arithmetic terms, since when does six equal one? What's the sense in risking six guys to save one?
Ours is not to reason why.
Huh?
Never mind, don't worry, we'll pick up this kid, hightail it back to division, everything'll work out fine.
I'd much rather die in Caen than Ramelle, sir. It's a personal thing.
Reiben, there's a fairly good chance you're not going to die at all.
Easy for you to say, sir. Fucking James Ryan, I'd like to wring his fucking neck.
Well, maybe not the Captain, but the rest of us have mothers.
You have orders, too.
Reiben, what's the matter with you? I don't gripe to you. I'm a captain. There's a chain of command. Griping goes one way, up, only up, never down. You gripe to me, I gripe to my superior officers. Up, get it? I don't gripe to you, I don't gripe in front of you. How long you been in the army?
I'm sorry, sir, I apologize. But if you weren't a captain, or if I were a major, what would you say?
In addition, as I pointed out earlier, I have a fondness for cheese and I hope to have the opportunity to sample some of the Ramelle products, when we arrive there, to see if they live up to their excellent reputation. Moreover, I feel heartfelt sorrow for the mother of Private James Ryan and I'm more than willing to lay down my life, and the lives of my men, especially you, Reiben, to help relieve her suffering. The men thoroughly enjoy the performance.
Sir, if you were not a captain, I would compliment you, now, for being an excellent liar.
But I am a captain. If I were not a captain, I would thank you for the compliment and tell you that the ability to lie comes from being a topnotch poker player, which I am, having learned at the side of my mother who is, by popular acclaim, the best poker player in...
Any further thoughts on the subject?
Yes, sir, as a final note, I'd like to say, fuck our orders, fuck Ramelle, fuck the cheese capital of France and while we're at it, fuck Private James Ryan.
I'll make a note of your suggestions but I'll leave that last one to you, especially if he's already dead.
Sir, I've got an idea, let's go around.
We can't leave it here.
Goddamn it...Goddamn it...Goddamn it...
Is silent. Motionless. He gently closes Wade's eyes. His hand quivers slightly as he unclips one of Wades dogtags. He fumbles and drops it. Sarge notices.
Up. We're moving out.
I thought you said we had an hour, sir?
Well now I'm saying we're moving out. Get off your ass.
I've given this a lot of thought, sir. The best thing that could happen is, we find Ryan and he's dead.
Why's that?
Well, sir, consider the possibilities. A: Ryan is alive. We have to take him back to the beach. Knowing you, you don't let him carry my gear, even though he really should, and we all get killed, trying to keep him alive.
Except for the last part, that one's not bad.
B: Ryan is dead. He's been blown up by the German equivalent of Wade, whose name I know you don't want me to mention. There's nothing to find. The biggest piece is the size of a pea. We wander around, looking for him until the Germans pick us off, one after another.
I don't like that one.
Neither do I, sir. C: And this is the worst one, we find Ryan and he's wounded. Not only does he not carry my gear, we have to carry his gear. And him.
But we accomplish the mission.
Maybe. But what if he dies on the way back? you see what I'm saying, sir? The best possible situation is, he's dead, we find his body, more or less intact, we grab one of his dogtags and hightail it back to the beach, or better yet, we head over to Caen and catch up with division.
Has anyone ever told you, you're officer material?
No, sir.
That's a mystery to me.
Scans the Germans with his binoculars.
Looks like tea time, maybe they're Brits.
Looks like they've been having a hell of a party, here, Captain.
ON THE BRIDGE! WE'RE COMING IN.
I HAVE NO FUCKING IDEA. HERE WE COME. Cover me.
What if our guys open up, sir?
You're only allowed to shoot at Germans, that's one of the rules.
Have it your way, Captain.
Yes, sir, of course, sir, I was merely speaking hypothetically. IF this was a voting situation, then the vote would have been unanimous. But of course, it's not a voting situation, you're the captain, and you give the orders, sir.
You're goddamned right, I give the order. Vote! Jesus Christ! Listen to me, you little pissant pieces of shit, I am the ranking officer here and what I say goes, is that clear?
Maybe Caen.
Let's hope, because we're sure as hell not going to do any damage to them with what we have here.
Leave him to me, Captain, I'll have him pissing and moaning with the best of us.
See to it.
Cocks his Thompson. Settles down behind some sandbags.
HERE THEY COME!
OPENS UP with the MACHINE GUN.
Goddamn it...Goddamn it...Goddamn it...
Get back to your positions!
What deal?
I coach the baseball team, too.
I wonder if his cabin is still available?
That's not where I am. Miller No? Where are you?
Hears the FAINT DISTANT RUMBLE OF THE TANK. Barely has time to react. Sees:
Here they come.
FIRES a burst. Germans drops.
FIRES a burst. More Germans drop.
Continues FIRING. CUTTING DOWN the advancing Germans.
Knows what that means. He hears the RUMBLE OF THE TANKS.
Goddamn it!
More tanks... Ryan Lot's of them The fear on their faces turns to resignation. They know that they are dead men. They settle into their positions, and prepare to fire and die.
GO!
Rolls his eyes, takes a breath. Scrambles into the gap. The other five right behind.
CAPTAIN, IF YOUR MOTHER SAW YOU DO THAT, SHE'D BE VERY UPSET!
I THOUGHT YOU WERE MY MOTHER.
Worked, didn't it?
You tryin' to get yourself killed?
Don't need to, the Krauts go that covered.
Caen?
I wish. You and I are taking a squad up to Ramelle on a public relations mission.
You? Leading a squad?
Some private up there lost three brothers, got a ticket home.
What about the company?
Simpson.
Simpson? Jesus Christ on a fucking pogo stick!
I want Reiben on B.A.R; Jackson with his sniper rifle; Beasley, demolition.
Beasley's dead.
Okay, Wade. Translators?
Fresh out.
What about Talbot?
Twenty minutes ago. Miller Damn, I'll go see if I can find another one. You get Reiben, Jackson and Wade, meet me at transport.
You get a translator, Captain?
I've got a line on one.
Now we've got a straight shot, due north, to Ramelle, twentysix miles, two villages between here and there, St. Mere, then Bernay. We'll take the jeep as far as we can, then go on on foot.
We in radio contact with anybody up there?
Somebody put the wrong crystals in every one of the HundredandFirst's radios the night before the drop, not one of them works. We're going in blind.
A fucking mess, two maybe three Kraut divisions, no fronts, no lines, the drops were completely fouled up, we've got little pockets of paratroopers all over the place, trying to hang on. Command says we hold St. Mere, but north of that, it's all Krauts. Even if Ryan's where he's supposed to be, he's more than likely dead.
Hell of a mission.
Yep, hell of a mission.
Uh, Captain...
PUSH!
Uh, Captain...
Got it, sir. We gonna go take care of those eightyeights?
That's not what we're here for.
He's right, Captain, it might be kind of dangerous for those flyboys.
Tell that to Private James Ryan. We've got our orders. Let's go.
You ever going to open those letters? Miller keeps his eyes on the maps.
Maybe.
It's not normal, not reading letters from home.
Since when have things been normal?
You got me. Afraid of bad news?
Nope.
Good news?
You think they'll be alright?
They're fine. As long as they can gripe, they'll be alright.
And what about you?
They guys here aren't going to be able to hold out until battalion shows up.
Nope.
Command isn't going to let them withdraw and the Germans sure as hell aren't going to let them surrender.
Three for three.
If we stayed, we could make a difference.
You're kidding yourself.
You never know.
I hope this boy Ryan is worth it.
Now you're the one kidding yourself. Hell of a mission.
Yup, hell of a mission.
Makes you feel small, doesn't it?
It doesn't take this.
A couple of weeks. It started in Portsmouth when they brought us down for loading.
Is it getting worse?
No. It comes and goes. It stops when I look at it.
You may have to find yourself a new line of work, this one doesn't seem to agree with you anymore.
I'll be alright.
Yeah? What rule of thumb is that?
How about I go right, sir?
How about you take your position?
How about...?
How about you shut up and take your position?
HOLD YOUR FIRE!
Rolls to his feet. FIRE another BURST. KILLS the last of the German riflemen. Doesn't pause. RUNS onto the field.
Pulls Wade's hands from the wound. Pours sulfa powder.
About to pour his sulfa. Sees the wound. Stops. Knows it's fatal.
SHOVES THE NEEDLE into Wade's neck. Thick vein. Pumps the morphine straight to Wade's brain. Motions impatiently to Sarge.
More morphine, hurry up, come on, come on...
Hesitates. Then drops his sulfa. Fumbles in his pack. Finds the morphine.
Snatches the morphine from Sarge. Quickly and efficiently prepares a second shot. He's done this before.
You alright?
Let's just find someplace.
What was the name of that kid at Anzio, the one who got his face burned off?
Vecchio.
Yeah, Vecchio, I couldn't remember his name, he was a good kid, remember how he used to walk on his hands and sing that song about the man on flying trapeze?
Yeah.
You know why I'm such a good officer? Because of my mother. Have I ever told you about her?
Bits and pieces.
She's the best poker player you ever saw. My father used to go to these Saturday night games and lose his shirt. Finally, my mother gave him an ultimatum, either she gets a regular seat at the table or she locks him in every Saturday night. He squawked and so did his buddies but after a while they gave in and from the first night she sat down, she never lost. She could read those cocky bastards like they were playing open hands. And he bluffs? He had sixteen levels of bullshit. Her eyes, the tone of her voice, her bets, her jokes, the way she sipped her coffee, she was a master. She won more money on shit hands than anyone in the history of the game. Every Saturday night, my father would lose two, three hundred bucks and she'd win it all back and then some. And I'd stand there, glued to her shoulder, from the time I was five years old, watching every hand, every move, studying how she did it. That's why I'm such a good officer, I can look at a man's face and tell you exactly what he's holding, and if it's a shit hand, I know just what cards to deal him.
And what about your own hand?
No problem. A pair of deuces? Less? So what? I bluff. It used to tear me apart when I'd get one of my men killed, but what was I supposed to do? Break down in front of the ones who were standing there waiting for me to tell them what to do? Of course not, so I bluffed, and after a while, I started to fall for my own bluff. It was great, it made everything so much easier. Sarge Is that why your hand's been shaking?
It could be worse. You know the first thing they teach you at O.C.S.? Lie to your men.
Oh, yeah?
Not in so many words, but they tell you you can have all the firepower in the world and if your men don't have good morale, it's not worth a damn. So if you're scared or empty or halfastep from a Section Eight, do you tell your men? Of course not. You bluff, you lie.
And how do you bluff yourself?
Simple, numbers. Every time you kill one of your men, you tell yourself you just saved the lives of two, three, ten, a hundred others. We lost, what, thirtyone on the cliffs? I'll bet we saved ten times that number by putting out those guns. That's over three hundred men. Maybe five hundred. A thousand. Then thousand. Any number you want. See? It's simple. It lets you always choose mission over men.
Except this time, the mission IS a man.
That's the rub. I liked Wade. Who's Ryan? If they're both standing in front of me and I have to shoot one or the other, how do I choose? Look at my hand, there it goes again.
John, I've got to tell you, I think you're about used up.
I think you're right, Keith.
You want me to take over?
No, but if I get any worse, you'll have to relieve me.
Just what I want to do.
You know Wade was the eleventh of the twelve, you're the last one still alive.
I know.
Don't let yourself get killed, if you do, they might make me give back the medal and then I won't be able to lip off to colonels anymore.
I'll do my best.
Thanks for drawing that machine gun off me.
You're welcome, John.
But, that's my personal brand of stupidity, I feel kind of proprietary about it, if you do it again, you're busted.
Sarge, see what you can do to make those buildings inhospitable.
Yes, sir.
What do you think?
Well, if we had ten times the men and a lot more ammo, we might stand a chance, but not against those tanks.
What are we going to do?
We're going to hope like hell the tanks were on their way somewhere else.
Uh, oh.
Out of the mouth of babes.
Reiben, I don't know what I'd do without you. Sarge, keep Ryan close to you and alive.
Yes, sir.
I know about bracketing. I read about it. The next one is going to land right on us.
FORWARD! FORWARD! NOW REVERSE!
You can tell all that, just by the sound, sire?
That's not all. There were nine gunners on the eightyeights, one had a broken heel on his boot, two had bratwurst for supper last night, one of them is named Fritz, the other, Hans, maybe, I don't know, it's hard to tell.
Glad of it.
On the other side of the street, crouches in a doorway with Jackson. Upham is a bit in shock, less from the nearness of the bullets than from what Miller just did for him.
DASHES across the street.
Sir, I'm sorry about what happened, I...
It was nothing.
But you could have gotten killed and I...
Like I said, it was nothing. Don't bunch up.
Upham?
Pass.
Sarge?
I wasn't made for this.
You think the rest of us were?
It looks like a Renoir.
Yes. Do you know Sibelius' Fourth Symphony, The Normandy?
I've been humming it.
I heard.
It seemed appropriate.
You know classical music?
Some.
Where are you from, Captain?
Over threehundred.
I'll tell you what, if I'm still alive when it hits fivehundred, I'll let you know and we'll split the money.
If that's the way you feel, why don't we wait until it's up to a thousand.
I don't expect to live that long.
Five nights ago, he found this paratrooper caught in a tree with a broken leg. The leg got infected. Last night he went to Ville Cholet to get a doctor. The doctor refused to come and when he got back, this is what he found. The Krauts must have shown up while he was gone.
Did he see any sign of them?
No, but he heard firing, just east, less that a kilometer.
Thank him and tell him we're sorry about his loss.
What is it?
A machine gun.
Good luck, Captain.
Don't need it, I'm a cat, I've got five lives.
The men said, nine.
What do they know? I had nine, but I feel through the ice when I was seven, my brother pulled me out. Then I used one when a grenade landed in my foxhole in Sicily, it was a dud. I figure one on the beaches, one on the cliffs and two getting here.
That only leaves three.
Plenty.
I wonder where they're going.
Same place we are.
I'd like to stay, too, Captain.
You don't count.
I can tell what the gunners had for dinner.
Those guns are close.
What about our grenades?
Those are Tigers, they have sixinch armor, they don't even notice grenades.
Would they notice and eightyeight?
Sure, you got one?
The Germans do.
Upham, you've got to learn the difference between whining and griping. You can't just rely on natural ability, you've got to study and practice.
But, sir...
There you go again, that's whining, that's not okay.
Goddamn it, sir...
That's better, but you've still got a long way to go. Talk to Reiben, he's a natural and works at it, he'll give you some pointers.
What'd you say, Captain?
I teach English at Addley High School in Addley, Pennsylvania.
Captain, what about our deal?
I changed my mind.
Sorry, sir, fresh out of trucks, how 'bout a '38 Ford Roadster, hardtop, red with black interior.
Whitewalls?
No whitewalls, sir, there's a war on. NOT THERE, YOU GODDAMNED IDIOT, OVER THERE! I can't help you, sir.
A halftrack, anything.
Sorry, sir. Division is using everything on wheels to get up to Caen. How come you guys aren't going?
How about that jeep?
That's General Gavin's. His lap dog told me if anyone breathes on it, I'll get busted and if anyone so much as touches it with their little finger, I'll get court marshaled. If you were to take it, they'd shoot me.
A paratrooper named Ryan. He's going home, if he's alive.
Senator's son?
No, three brothers of his were killed in action. Command wants him out of there.
Captain, my feet are most uncomfortable. If I'd 'a known we was gonna have to walk all the way to Ramelle, I never would 'a volunteered for this here mission.
You didn't volunteer, Jackson.
I most likely would have, sir, had I been given the opportunity.
Sir, I have an opinion on this matter.
I'd love to hear it.
Seems to me, Cap'n, this mission is a serious misallocation of valuable military resources. Miller Go on.
Reiben, I want you to listen closely to Jackson. This is the way to gripe. Jackson, continue.
Yes, sir. It seems to me, sir, that the entire resources of the United States Army oughta be dedicated to one thing and one thing only, and that is to put me and this here weapon on a rooftop, smackdab in the middle of Berlin, Germany. Now I ain't one to question decisions made up on high, sir, but it seems to me that saving one private, no matter how grievous the losses of his family, is a waste of my Godgiven talent.
Wade?
Where?
In the shadow by those two trees.
My guess, too.
We left them eightyeights.
They don't send planes to put out machine guns. Two flank runners with surpressing fire. I'm going right, whoever goes left has to be fast.
Watching.
Gives Wade the second shot.
What the hell's the matter with you, Jackson?
Sir, I ain't feeling so chipper on account of Wade.
Who's Wade?
Sir, I understand what you're doin', but I respectfully request permission to grieve in my own manner.
You'll grieve the way I tell you to goddamned grieve. There is no Wade, there was one, but he died a long time ago, he's been dead for so long you can hardly remember his name, you understand?
Sir, I understand. I don't like it, but I understand.
Good, now get your goddamned gear.
Not yet.
Keep trying.
I'm in my backyard, lying in my hammock, with my arm around my wife, listening for the sound of breaking glass.
Say what, Cap'n?
You see, I've got the best house in all of Addley. It's not the biggest house, but it's got the best location, right next to the junior high baseball field. The garage windows face left field. The guy who owned the house before me had these heavy screen S put over them. The first thing I did when I bought the place was take off those screens. Twohundredtwenty two yards from home plate to my garage windows. It takes a hell of a junior high kid to hit a ball that far. I look at my garage windows as a Motivator and a way to scout the kids coming up, the ones who are going to give us a shot at the state championship. I lay there in my hammock and every time I hear the sound of breaking glass, I know we're one step closer to winning it all.
Don't that get kind of expensive, Cap'n?
It's worth it.
To each, his own.
Jackson?
Hell, no, last time I shot a corporal, Cap'n Miller near bit my head off.
No one's gonna win the money for the simple reason that the Captain never was a civilian. They assembled him at O.C.S. out of spare body parts from dead G.I.'s. I know this for a fact.
You got somethin' against the Cap'n?
Hell, no. I think he's the best officer in the whole goddamned army, bar none.
If we find Ryan and he's still alive, that sonofabitch is gonna carry this goddamned B.A.R. back to the beach for me.
Army life is too dang easy, my feet have gone soft. Back home, we go out squirrel huntin', I walk forever and a day and then some, don't even raise a blister.
You know what a B.A.R. weighs? Nineteen and a half pounds, not counting ammo. And you think these things are comfortable? They may look good but they weigh twelve pounds each, that's thirtysix pounds, right there.
Reiben, how many time I got to tell you, I'm from Tennessee.
They got squirrels there, too, right?
Last I knew.
Wade, Sarge, Corporal Insect, all of us, hell, I'll bet even the Captain has a mother.
Fuck Private James Ryan, fuck him, just fuck the goddamned sonofa bitch.
Shut up, will you?
You shut up, this is the most fucked up mission I ever heard of. Goddamned Ryan, fuck the little bastard.
Just shut up, Ryan didn't kill Wade.
The hell he didn't.
You know what the best possible thing that could happen is?
Yep, you step on a rusty nail, get lockjaw, never say another word as long as you live.
So, that's Ryan.
Looks like a flaming asshole to me.
He's right, we can't shoot him...well, we could but we'd get in an enormous amount of trouble. And he's right about the bridge, it's a hell of a lot more important than he is.
Cap'n...?
Yes, sir.
Of course, sir.
Y'all come back.
Reiben, are you makin' fun 'a the way I talk?
Hell, no!
What do you think?
I think I'm we got that eightyeight.
I mean, Ryan, what do you think of him?
He ain't halfbad, I guess.
I guess.
He ain't Wade.
Nope, he ain't Wade.
Well, I'll be goddamned, I knew it.
Like hell, you did.
No kiddin'?
What deal?
Me? I'm walking with my hound, Lucy, it's about an hour 'fore sunrise and we're out huntin' coon. I got me a flask of pure Kentucky mash whiskey...
Jackson, how many times I got to tell you, you're from Tennessee.
I am, but I like imported whiskey. So there I am and I hear the biggest ole' coon you ever did hear, 'a rustlin' right there in front of me. That ole' boy comes right out of the brush, I got a clear shot and he knows he's 'bout to meet his maker. I aim, I got my finger tight on the trigger and then I just smile and say to that ole' coon, go on, now, you get out 'a here. Then I sit down on a hollow log and take me a right long pull a' that mash whiskey.
So, where are you from?
You writin' a book or somethin'?
As a matter of fact, I am.
Figured.
I'm Jackson. I'm from West Fork, Tennessee. My pappy's a preacher. Him and his two brothers got a ministry, The Blessed Church of the Wandering Gospel.
In West Fork?
In the back of a nineteen and thirty one stretch Hudson with a big ole' trailer.
No kidding.
I don't make jokes about things of, or related to, the preaching of the Holy Gospel, including the ministerial calling of my family.
So they travel around from place to place and preach?
We got us a tent, fortytwo feet across, eighteen feet at center, hundredandten foldin' chairs. Circuit's eleven towns, covers all 'a Hasset County and most 'a Weller County. I expect that upon completion of my military service I will be joinin' said ministry.
What about the Captain? Where's he from?
Thirtyoughtsix, Norton longbarrel with dualgroove, parallel rifling, elevated threeglass scope and a singlethrow hammer.
The Army gave you that?
Yep.
You must be a hell a shot.
Not where I come from.
That must be four thousand yards.
Fortytwohundred, I figure.
You take account of the wind?
Did you see what he did, back there? He stepped right into the open, so I could get across.
Shit, that was no big deal.
Find a chaplain.
...alright, let me know when.
Report.
Sector four is secured, we put out the last three German onefiftyfives, found them about two miles in from Ponte du Hoc.
Resistance?
A company, Wehrmacht, no artillery, we took twentythree prisoners, turned them over to intelligence.
Casualties?
Fourtyfour, twenty one dead.
They didn't want to give up those onefiftyfives, sir.
It was a hard assignment, that's why you got it.
Yes, sir.
Where are your men now?
Pinned down, a mile east of here, waiting for some help from the navy guns.
I'm sending Simpson to take over for you, the division is going to Caen, you're not coming with us, I have something else for you.
Sir?
There's a Private James Ryan who parachuted in with the Hundredand First near Ramelle. I want you to take a squad up there. If he's alive, bring him back to the beach for debarkation. Take whoever you need, you've got your pick of the company.
A private, sir?
He's the last of four brothers, the other three were killed in action. This is straight from the Chief of Staff.
But, sir...I...I...
Spit it out, Captain.
Respectfully, sir, sending men all the way up to Ramelle to save one private doesn't make a fucking, goddamned bit of sense. Sir.
Alright, I'll give you that. Continue.
The numbers don't make sense, sir. His brothers are dead, that's too bad, but they're out of the equation. Sending men up there is bleeding heart crapola from three thousand miles away. One private is simply not worth a squad. Colonel anderson This one is. He's worth a lot more than that. Which is why I'm sending you, you're the best field officer there is.
Good luck, John.
Thank you, sir.
Danny, listen up. Here's the deal ... my wife's pimp knows a guy who works at Cedars Sinai medical lab. They're getting a very special delivery a week from this Friday.
What is it, drugs?
Better than drugs.
What is that? Rum and coke?
Don't worry about it.
I just want to be straight on the details. Can I taste it?
No, you can't taste it. It's the fucking lab! Now shut up.
Jesus Jimmy, you at the alpha team.
I thought you were done.
You thinking what I'm thinking?
Yeah. This could be the one we're looking for.
And believe me, word will get out that you're a pro rat.
That's not good in prison. It's just not good.
Golly, I hadn't thought of that.
Don't we always take good care of you?
She's 57 and she's been teaching third grade for the last 33 years.
Now that's scary!
We're in business.
Good work, Flynne. You're a firstrate rat.
Just make sure you hit the floor when we come in. It could get ugly in there.
Yeah, I'd hate to shoot you by accident.
Where's Bubba?
Maybe he isn't showing.
A virtuoso rendition. TOM VAN ALLEN is nothing short of dazzling in his interpretation of Miles Davis' haunting, moody piece.
Thank you. Thank you very much.
And he has a really hot ass with hardly any hair on it.
Again, I thank you.
I was talking about Miles.
You, madam, are a heartless wench.
And you've got wiener breath.
Really?
It's that disgusting hot dog you had for lunch.
Tom, let's spend the night here.
There's no motels around here.
No. Right here on the beach. Come on. Let's do it.
Why didn't you just ask for directions back there?
Come on, where's your pioneer spirit?
You mean like the Donner Party?
Hey, do you think you could eat me if you had to? And if so, which part do you think you would find the most delicious?
Tom, quit fucking around.
Okay, okay. There's a house up there. I'll go ask for directions.
You think that's a good idea?
What do you mean?
Look at that place. It's creepy.
First you want me to ask for directions, then you don't. Which is it?
I wanted you to ask back there. You know, before you got us lost.
Just no pleasing you, is there?
Just admit you're wrong.
We all know how much you like hearing that. Okay, Liz, I was wrong. There. You happy?
Quit feeling sorry for yourself, Tom. It gets old.
No. You know what gets old? Being reminded what a loser you are every time you screw up.
Here it comes, poor Tom.
But that's okay, Liz, you're the one with the steady job, you pay all the bills. I'm just an unemployed musician. You have every right.
That is so unfair.
My sentiments exactly.
Why are you doing this?
This the guy?
It speaks!
That's him. He's a lot prettier in person though.
Cut to the fucking chase, Flynne.
Dude is bugging. Transparent spiders, plastic men  the whole nine yards.
What's he holding?
Then why didn't you help the kid when you were there?
Hey, you want me to do all your work for you, numbnuts?
I'll tell you why you didn't help  because you're a chickenshit tweaking snitch. You're a bottom feader, Flynne.
Garcetti, you're teeth, they're fucking perfect.
Danny, it's really pains me to have to tell you this, but do you remember DOMINGO, that wetback you helped us put away for trafficking a few months back?
Yeah. What about him?
Turns out he's connected.
To who?
The Mexicali Boys
And what does this have to do with me?
He knows somebody ratted him.
What?!
And he's making a lot of noise about having his homies hang a Colombian necktie on whoever it was.
Fuck you, Garcetti. I been at this for almost a year. I've done everything you guys have asked of me.
Anyone ever ask you to be such a disrespectful smartass all the time?
We know what's going on.
I still don't know what you're talking about.
Jimmy?
Who the hell is Jimmy?
He's the only one I told.
And he probably only told two people and they probably only told four people and on and one. You know better than to tell a secret to a tweaker, Flynne. Might just as well broadcast it on the evening news.
What's on the other end of this thing?
Now that I can help you with. Nasty boy ... goes by the name of PoohBear. He's a chef. Check with Palmdale P.D. I'm sure they're keeping box scores on the guy.
Sounds like you hooked up with some fine citizens, Flynne.
Oh they're all that and the proverbial bag of chips.
What's that smell?
That would be me.
What'd you do, piss your pants?
Hell, yes! What the hell do you expect zapping Mr. Johnson with that crackler?
Who'd have thought it? Danny "Chickenshit" Flynne trying to go large right under our noses.
Lay off, Garcetti. I'm not in the mood.
No. You've got me all wrong. I mean, in you own pussified way, you actually got some nuts in your little sack.
Excuse me?
Several possession charges, but nothing major.
Why doesn't Palmdale P.D. just raid the guy?
They have. But they never found a lab.
You're lucky, Flynne.
Funny, I don't feel lucky.
We're coordinating with Palmdale P.D.. We'll have your sorry ass covered.
What if he caps me before you can make a move?
Speaking of which ... you run that license plate for me?
You mean the menacing red car?
Come on! Who is it? Domingo's boys?
Worse. Much worse. A teacher.
When is the deal going down?
I'm making the small buy tonight ... if I don't get beaten to death with a wheelchair or something. If everyone is happy, we'll do the big deal later in the week.
You know, I'm starting to think I'd rather take my chances with Domingo than go through any more of this shit.
Didn't you hear? Domingo's dead.
Nervous?
With you clowns watching my back? What do you think?
I've got a hot one.
You go, boy.
If it's all the same to you, I'd rather not dish right here in the middle of Crankville.
Feeling the paranoia tonight, are we?
Well, you know what they say, just because you're paranoid, doesn't mean everyone's not out to slice your balls off and shove 'em down your throat.
You got a name?
Bobby, rhymes with hobby.
What?
Never mind. Dude had a backfull of jailhouse tatts.
No last name?
It was all pretty informal. Didn't have a lot of time to exchange pleasantries.
Yeah. Pretty sure. Oh yeah ... he had a spear gun, too.
God damn, Flynne, you are one observant tweaker.
Somebody has to help you lazy bastards.
Danny, I'm touched.
Don't be. I'm worried about the kid.
You think I'm a Judas?
Hard to compare the people you're taking down with the Lord.
Garcetti thinks I'm a pile of shit.
Garcetti thinks everything is shit. He doesn't even like dolphins.
Thanks for not judging me.
It's not my place.
Don't you wonder why I do it?
The money? The drugs? Keeping yourself out of jail? I know the drill.
You don't find that repugnant?
Just the way the world works. Look, as far as tweakers go, you aren't a bad guy. You never hurt anyone but yourself as far as I know.
Tell that to Bobby ... and his wife and kid.
Bobby laid his own tracks. He could have gone quietly but he played the hardass con till the end. And as far as I'm concerned, he wife and kid are a hell of a lot better off without him. Now take the money.
I was getting to it.
Tell me what?
If he finds out it's me, I'm a dead man.
Danny, he isn't gonna find out it's you. Domingo was a slinger, he must have sold to hundreds of different people.
Look, we'll talk to the A.D.A.
When?
Soon. I promise. We'll get the charges dropped and you can disappear. In the mean time, trust me, he has no idea that you ratted him out.
What the hell are you doing here?
Question is, what are you doing here?
I was trying to score some dope.
Cut the shit, Flynne.
Someone want to tell me what the hell is going on here?
Okay, asshole, you wanna play, we'll play.
You think this is funny motherfucker?
I can't help it, Tanner, you hit like a fucking girl.
I met the guy at a party. He said he wanted to do a biggie. He's new in town so I offered my services.
This chink have a name?
Bubba.
You better not be blowing smoke up My ass, Flynne.
After that asswhipping you gave me?
What're your taking down?
Standard vig. Minus five for a certain blabbermouth moron by the name of Jimmy the Finn, who's living proof that natural selection is a flawed theory.
Did you really think you were slick enough to pull this off?
Look man, I just wanted to make some dough and disappear. I didn't want to wait around for Domingo to figure out who doubled back on him.
You've got no choice.
Whata you mean I've got no choice?
Well, if you'd rather do a stretch in la casa grande ...
For that old possession charge? Gimme a break.
No. You just handed us a new one. We can go Federal on your ass right now: ongoing criminal conspiracy. Intent to buy and distribute $250,000 worth of crank. What's the mandatory on that, Al?
Bullshit. He's a liar.
Newsflash, Tanner. I'm a fucking rat.
You think you're so god damned smart, don't you?
That's because he doesn't have one.
Whata you mean? He told me 
Guy scores dope and dollar from ripping off other drug dealers. As least that's what the word is.
What's to stop him from just ripping me off then?
That's probably what he would have done if we hadn't found out about your getrichquick scheme.
What? Is it bad?
I'm afraid so, Danny.
Who is it?
That's real sweet, Garcetti. Thanks.
We got the 411 on your good old boy.
Murder. Beautiful.
Pumped fiftyseven bullets into a police informant.
Took a pigslicker to the heart.
Jesus.
I thought you'd be happy.
Yeah.
Danny?
My name is Tom.
Whatever you say, man. Look ... can we talk about this?
Yeah. Okay. Listen carefully ... You're in the bathroom. You've been shot in the shoulder ...
Please ... don't do this ...
Answer the fucking question!
I'm gonna get this developed and send it to the Warren Commission.
Um, I think the Warren Commission has been closed for a while.
No shit? Fuck it. I'll send it to Oliver Stone then. He'll get them to reopen the bastard.
Yeah, I uh, have a buyer who's looking for about a quarter's worth.
Crank or glass?
The good stuff. Can you handle that?
I'm sorry. Would you like a taste?
No, I'm good.
I insist. It's delicious. Just a taste.
Not bad.
Secret recipe.
Can we talk price?
Make me an offer.
I don't know, 14,000 a kilo?
I deal in U.S. pounds, friend. None of that faggot metric crap for me.
Okay ... How about um .. 6,000 a ounce.
Hey, okay.
You're serious?
Anything for a dear friend.
But I just met you.
But you're a friend of Jimmy's. I think of you as a brother already.
So that's 40 lbs. at 6 a pound then?
If you say so.
PoohBear, I don't mean to be rude, but I get the feeling you aren't taking me seriously.
Maybe you're the one who isn't taking me seriously.
Why do you say that?
I welcome you here with open arms and you got the nerve to lowball me like some slick used car salesman.
Hey, I was just trying to ...
I want to tell you about the last guy who tried to jam me up on a deal.
Hey, I don't play that.
You want to do this some other time?
Pull your pants down.
I'm sorry?
Pull your motherfucking pants down.
Come on, guys ...
Big Bill.
PoohBear. come on, man. What is this? It's me, Danny. I thought we had a deal.
Big Bill
Captain Steubing thinks you might work for the police.
What?!
Don't address me. I didn't make the accusation.
Please .. I don't know what you're ...
Uhuhuh ...
Shoot him.
Okay! Okay!
Now get talkin'
I didn't fucking do anything! I swear to God!
CAN I PULL MY FUCKING DICK OUT?!
Yeah.
I ought to just call this whole thing off right now.
Don't do that. Please. Or I'll kill you. Please, Danny.
What the hell was that? Who told you I was five0?
No one. It was just a test. I need to be sure of who I'm dealing with from timetotime.
Did it ever occur to you that someone might cop to something they didn't do rather than have their balls chewed off by a rabid weasel?
I'll keep that in mind.
What the hell is this?
Just some buddies.
This is bullshit. You didn't say anything about anybody else being here.
What the fuck are you gonna do about it, dickhead?
Cool it. We got business.
Yeah, dickhead.
Then why don't I see any pictures Of me up there?
That was my idea.
You never did like me much, did you Verne? And you can't stand it that I walked out of there alive and Liz didn't. You think I'm a coward, don't you?
By not disgracing her memory!
What does that mean?
You might as well be spitting on her grave every time you put drugs up your nose. Or did you just conveniently forget that it was drug dealers who killed my daughter?
You don't understand.
Understand what?
How the hell did we get this detail?
Guess it's our turn.
What time is it?
Twelve
Midnight?
Where to?
I know a guy.
Lead the way.
Nice day
I hadn't noticed. I've seen you around. What's your name?
Jimmy. Everyone calls me Jimmy the Finn.
Why's that?
My features. They're Finnish.
You don't say.
Finland is a country.
Well, Jimmy the Finn, let's go score some gack.
Nice dealer you got there, Jimmy.
Oh ... that. Ah, he was just juiced. He wouldn't have did nothin'
I'm hurting.
You on a roll?
Was. I'm on the fucking ghost train right now, man. You got anything for me?
Sorry.
Why does it have to feel so bad?
You're brain is in reverse mode ... cutting off your supply of dopamine. Here. Have a beer.
That's a good one.
I'm serious, dude. You always seem to be on top of things, even when you're tweakin'.
I guess there's just no substitute for good genes.
So, why'd you want to see me?
Business. I need to leave town and I find myself in dire need of some cash.
See that? That's just what I'm talking about.
What?
You. You're smooth. You use words like dire and shit. You got language skills, man.
Don't get carried away.
I find myself in dire need of some cash.
You remember that guy you told me about ... said he could handle a big hookup?
Yeah, PoohBear. Dude is a bigtime cook. I'm talking dire.
I know a buyer. Guy's looking for a quarter's worth.
A quarter? Danny that ain't even worth ...
A quarter of a million, Jimmy.
Fuuuuuck
Can your man handle that?
I think so. I mean, we'd have to talk to him.
Can you set that up?
Sure.
I'm getting a 10% finder's fee from my man if I can get the right price.
10%. That's ...
Jimmy, where do you find these people?
The Del Ammo Mall mostly.
You wanna score some gofast?
Not tonight.
Hey, why do you need a gun and a vest anyway?
Personal protection. It's a dangerous world we live in, Jimmy, a very dangerous world.
You know, Jimmy, you might as well put a sign on the back of this thing asking the cops to pull you over.
You mean, like to throw 'em off?
Yeah, that's what I mean. Where the hell does this guy live anyway?
Palmdale
Why do they call him PoohBear?
I think on account of his nose.
You're going to have to explain that one.
He doesn't have one.
You're going to have to give me a little more than that, Jimmy.
You ever see Queen Elizabeth sleep?
No You think she's a tweaker?
You want a hit?
No. I'm good.
Can I ask you something?
Sure, Jimmy.
What does J.F.K. stand for?
John Fitzgerald Kennedy.
Was he the president?
Yes, Jimmy
Danny?
Yes, Jimmy.
Thanks for not laughing at me.
What's this?
Tem thousand dollars. Everything I could spare. It's for you.
But why? You only owe me five. And that's not till after we close the deal tonight.
You aren't coming with me.
Okay
Wait till I tell you what it is.
It don't matter. I'll do it. And you sure as hell don't have to pay me.
Why?
You're my best friend, man. I'd do anything for you.
Jimmy, look, there's something I have to tell you.
Hey, check it out...
What the hell is that?
It's you! I didn't have a picture or nothin' so I had to describe you to the guy. Not bad though, huh?
What?
I'm not a tweaker. I don't use drugs. I never had.
But...I've seen you.
When? When did you ever see me use?
This isn't like that Queen Elizabeth question, is it?
You ever notice how I always showed up, in the middle of a binge? Left before it was over? How I sneak away for capnaps? How when the crank came around to me, I always said I'd just done one?
No one ever noticed?
Are you kidding me? A bunch of amped out tweakers? It was easy.
But... why? Why would you pretend?
I can't tell you.
You don't trust me?
I don't trust anybody.
And you want me to do you some big favor?
Wait If you don't trust me, why did you tell me that stuff about not using drugs?
Because I don't want to see you end up like Kujo and those other losers. I thought that maybe if you knew that I didn't use, you might see it in yourself to go clear.
I don't know... a little. I wish you would have let me in on it from the beginning.
I'm sorry. I couldn't.
Nah... I want to keep it. Maybe I can use it for like, inspiration ...you know...like when I detox?
Good for you Jimmy.
Wouldn't be a favor if you were paying me. I'll just take my five when the deal is done.
You're a good man. Jimmy the Finn.
Who is it?
It's Tom.
All right, Nancy, how'd you track me down?
Billy Sutcliffe said he saw you at a bar down in Gardena a few weeks ago. Said you looked so bad, he barely recognized you.
Closure? How do you find closure when her killers are still running around out there?
I found forgiveness in my heart for the people who killed my daughter. I gave my grief to Jesus Christ.
Is that what you want me to do? Put it all on Jesus? Let him sort it out in the afterlife?
You've got to deal with this sooner or later, Tom. You can't keep hiding.
Maybe I am dealing with it.
I know it's not my place to pass judgement on you but ...
I'm genuinely happy that you found some peace, Nancy. But you can't forgive for Liz. No one can. And you can't forgive for me.
Your hatred makes them stronger and you weaker.
I don't buy that. There's a place for hatred. Did you know that Liz and I got into an argument the night she was killed? I acted like an ass and I never had a chance to apologize to her. Do you know what that feels like?
It's not too late to show her you're sorry.
How?
I knew that if these were the guys I was looking for, I'd have to set up a deal so sweet, they wouldn't be able to walk away from it.
That's when he called me. He told me his story and he pitched me a plan.
These guys are smart. I knew they wouldn't hit a deal unless they knew all the players. I needed a big buyer.
How you holding up?
I'm fine. Little nervous...little disappointed that I didn't finish this myself.
Hey, you did the right thing. You wouldn't have stood a chance against these boys by yourself. They have eaten your ass alive.
Oh shit
What?
Can you do me a favor? This girl I know, her boyfriend's a real piece of shitdude's really jamming her up. I promised her I'd try to help.
Look...I'd like to help you out ... but I really don't want to get involved.
I understand. Thanks anyway.
Jesus, I look like a raccoon.
I was thinking Alice Cooper.
Oh God.
Come on, cheer up. It could be worse.
How?
I don't know .... you could be staking your financial future on stealing Bob Hope's stool specimen.
What about the guy on the very bottom?
Leave me out of this.
That bad, huh?
Could be worse. Oh sorry, forgot who I was talking to.
Ouch.
Don't worry, he's probably passed out with his head in the toilet by now.
This man sounds like a real catch.
Oh, he's a keeper all right.
Colette ...
What?
Nothing.
Go ahead.
Look, it's really none of my business but why don't you just dump this guy?
It's not that easy.
Don't tell me, down deep he's really not a bad person and you don't want to see him get hurt.
Who the fuck are you, Dr. Joyce Brothers? I hate the sonofabitch.
Then leave.
I can't.
Why not?
You don't understand.
There's nothing to understand. The guy is a pig.
I can't leave.
You get off on abuse or something?
Fuck you.
Then why don't you leave? Just give me one good reason.
Because he'll kill me.
Why don't you call the cops?
Why? They don't hold him for more than a day or two.
That's long enough to get out of town.
I can't. I've got a kid. She lives with my parents. Quincey knows where they live.
Then make sure he gets put away for longer.
How?
Oh. Hi.
What happened to your eye?
Turns out I'm allergic to steeltoed boots. Go figure. By the way, I'm not looking for a matching set. Where's Quincey?
Don't worry. He's out of town.
How far out of town?
Trust me. We're safe.
Miles Davis. "All Blues."
Never heard of him.
Just a fuckedup guy who played beautiful music.
Like you?
Nah. I'm strictly minor league... except for the fuckedup part.
Dude played his soul right out the end of the horn. No false notes. Always honest.
And you admire that?
It's the only way to play.
Is that how you play?
I try.
: What are you up to?
Nothing.
What do you want from me, Colette?
I don't want anything. Why are you so suspicious?
It gets me through the day.
You really need to lighten up.
Look, I can't help you with Quincey if that's what you're after.
This has nothing to do with him.
So you're just attracted to me, is that it?
Yes. Why do you find that so hard to believe?
How much time do you have?
What is wrong with you?
How much time do you have?
You've got a comeback for everything, don't you, Danny? You use 'em like some sort of shield.
Who the fuck are you? Dr. Joyce Brothers?
There you go again. You're nothing but false notes.
You don't like the tune, find another station.
What are you hiding, Danny?
Therapy session is over.
You think you're the only one down here with a sad story?
No. But I'm the only one with my sad story. And that's how it's gonna stay.
Who is it?
It's me.
I'm kind of busy.
Please open the door, Danny.
We been through that.
What about a battered woman's shelter? You can move you kid in with you.
I need my paycheck.
You can still work.
He knows where I work.
Find a new job.
It's not that easy. I just got a raise. I need the money.
You always been this stubborn?
From day one. I was a breach birth. They tried for hours to turn my little butt around. But I wouldn't let 'em.
Ass first into the world.
I been that way ever since.
Why not?
I just can't. Okay?
What's wrong, Danny?
Look, maybe you oughta' leave.
No. I want to know what the hell is going on.
I can't tell you.
No, you're wrong, I tried to tell myself the same thing but I could have gotten up. I could have done something.
They would have killed you too.
Nothing could be worse then this slow death I'm living now.
Really, I don't want to.
I want to do this for you. I want to do something good for a change.
What is it?
Never mind. Just do what I say. He holds out the baggie. Colette backs away.
I don't want to.
Will you do that? Then I want you to get out of the room.
Why?
Don't worry about it. Just go across the street and watch. You'll know when it's safe to go back.
You're good, princess. I'll give you that.
Danny, it's not what you think.
Colette, go.
I don't want to leave you.
Your daughter needs you. Go.
Ride 'em cowboy)
You like that?
Who wouldn't?
First rate, ain't it?
It's downright classy is what it is.
I wanna do a small buy first. Ten thousand. We'll see how it goes.
Why? The guys is ready to deal now.
Because I don't know him and I don't really know you, partner.
Now that's downright insulting.
I'll have to live with that. My money my risk, my rules.
I guess I don't have a hell of a lot of choice.
Get used to it. You're in a very tenuous position on the food chain, hoss.
Yeah.
Everything go?
Yeah.
Just make sure you come alone. This guy won't like any surprises
I ain't a idiot, asshole.
I'll see you tonight.
All I saw was the headlights. The high beams were on.
Not even a guess?
DANNY +++$+++
Yeah, but he was in silhouette.
How about in the house?
They were wearing ski masks. I told you all of this.
Did you see his hair color?
No, Why?
What is it?
Nothing, I'm trying to remember...
Bobby?
Shhh.
What?
The spiders.
Jimmy, Jimmy, Jimmy, Jimmy. Rhymes with Simmy.
Yeah.
What can I do for you?
Um, coupla' eight balls oughta do us.
What?
Come on. Ease off the girl.
Fuck man. Come on, Bobby.
Bobby, Bobby, Bobby. Rhymes with ...
What you want to do is go back the way you came and make a left at the bottom. It'll take you right to the highway.
That's it?
Are you Australian?
No.
Good. I fucking hate Australians.
You got a bathroom I can use before we hit the road?
Yeah? First door on the right. It ain't that dirty. Just kinda' filthy is all.
You mind?
No, I don't mind. That's how come I told you about it.
I was talking to my wife.
But you don't pull a strike when the bosses want it  so they can smash your union. You wait till you're ready, so you can win.
Do the bosses wait? No sanitation. So my kids get sick. Does the company doctor wait? Twenty bucks. So we miss one payment on the radio I bought for my wife. Does the company store wait? "Pay  or we take it away." Why they in such a hurry, the bosses' store? They're trying to scare us, that's why  to make us afraid to move. To hang on to what we got  and like it! Well, I don't like it I'm not scared ... and I'm fed up  to here!
And another thing. Your attitude toward Anglos. If you're gonna be a leader ...
What attitude?
You lump them all together  Anglo workers and Anglo bosses.
He's a guest in my house, isn't he?
Sure. But you want the truth? You're even suspicious of him.
Maybe. I think he's got a few things to learn about our people.
Ramn ... listen for the love of God ...
You ... You ... I'd expect it of an Anglo, yes ... but you ...
Ramn ... listen to me ... I'm in a jam ... I had to get a job ...
You Judas ... bloodsucker ...
Ramn  listen my kids ...
T! Traidor a tu gente! Rompehuelga! Desgraciado!
My kids don't have enough to eat!
You think my kids have enough to eat, you rat?
I know, it's wrong. Just let me go. I'll leave town ... just let me go.
You think I was going to work you over? I wouldn't dirty my hands with you ...
What are you doing here? Something wrong with Mama?
I thought maybe you forgot...
Forgot what?
It's Mama's Saint's Day.
Lus! Come down here!
Papa! We seen 'em! Two scabs! Over there!
Where's your mama?
She's coming. Charley Vidal gave her a lift.
Boy! Did you see the way Mama whopped that deputy with her shoe? Knocked the gun right out ...
I don't want you hanging around there, hear?
Papa, can't I leave now? There's a meeting of the Junior Shop Stewards ...
The what!
The Junior Shop Stewards. There's lots of ways we can help.
Don't I have enough troubles without them shipping you off to reform school?
But Papa  you need all the help you can get.
You've got to help around the house!
But you've got me doing everything. Mama never used to make me dry the ...
You should have helped her without being asked.
That's all right  it's no secret. My name's Hartwell. I'm from the company's Eastern office.
You mean Delaware?
No. New York.
New York? You're not the Company President by any chance?
No ...
Too bad. The men've always wanted to get a look at the President. But you've come out here to settle the strike?
Well, if that's possible ...
It's possible. Just negotiate.
Are we talking to a union spokesman?
Don't horse me. Price of zinc's never been higher. They don't want no strike  not with their war boom on.
Then why's the company hanging tough? They've signed contracts with other locals  why not this one?
Because most of us here are Mexican Americans! Because we want equality with Anglo miners  the same pay, the same conditions.
Exactly. And equality's the one thing the bosses can't afford. The biggest club they have over the Anglo locals is, "Well  at least you get more than the Mexicans."
Okay, so discrimination hurts the Anglo too, but it hurts me more. And I've had enough of it!
Hear those deputies slugged 'Cente.
Yeah. Lots of provocation lately. They figure if they can lock up the leadership on some phony riot charge, maybe they can bust the strike.
Go on. Spill it.
Well, you're the organizer. You work out strike strategy  and most of the time you're dead right. But when you figure everything the rankandfile's to do down to the last detail, you don't give us anything to think about. You afraid we're too lazy to take initiative?
You know I don't think that.
Maybe not. But there's another thing ... like when you came in tonight  I heard you ask your wife, "Who's that? His grandfather?"
Why didn't you support her? You're the worst of the lot.
But honey ...
Or why don't you just put a sign outside? "No dogs or women allowed!"
We can't think of them just as housewives  but as allies. And we've got to treat them as such.
Look who's talking! The Great White Father, and World's Champion of Women's Rights.
Aw, cut it out, Ruth.
Me, I'm a camp follower  following this organizer from one mining camp to another  Montana, Colorado, Idaho. But did he ever think to organize the women? No. Wives don't count in the Anglo locals either.
We're only one payment behind. I argued with her. It isn't right.
It isn't right, she says. Was it right that we bought this ... this instrument?
But you had to have it, didn't you? It was so nice to listen
I listen to it. Every night. When you're out to the beer parlor.
Where you going?
Got to talk to the brothers.
This water's cold again.
I'm sorry. The fire's gone out.
Forget it.
Forget it? I chop wood for the stove five times a day. Every time I remember. I remember that across the tracks the Anglo miners have hot water in pipes. And bathrooms. Inside.
Do you think I like living this way? What do you want of me?!
We did. It got lost in the shuffle.
What?
We can't get everything at once. Right now we've got more important demands.
What's more important than sanitation?
The safety of the men  that's more important! Five accidents this week  all because of speedup. You're a woman, you don't know what it's like up there.
First we got to get equality on the job. Then we'll work on these other things. Leave it to the men.
I see. The men. You'll strike, maybe, for your demands  but what the wives want, that comes later, always later.
Now don't start talking against the union again.
What has it got me, your union?
Esperanza, have you forgotten what it was like before the union came? When Estella was a baby, and we couldn't even afford a doctor when she got sick? It was for our families! We met in graveyards to build that union!
All right. Have your strike. I'll have my baby. But no hospital will take me, because I'll be a striker's wife. The store will cut off our credit, and the kids will go hungry. And we'll get behind on the payments again, and then they'll come and take away the radio...
Is that all you care about? That radio? Can't you think of anything except yourself?
If I think of myself it's because you never think of me. Never. Never. Never...
Stop it! The children are watching. Stop it!
Never... never... never!
Aaah, what's the use?
I did not mean to weep again. Why should I weep for joy?
I'm a fool.
No, no ...
Was it expensive, the beer?
Antonio paid for it.
Forgive me ... for saying you never thought of me.
I did forget. Lus told me.
What's the matter?
It's nothing. Just a little catch ...
Mother of God ...have mercy ...
Have mercy on this child ... let this child live ...
A fighter, huh?
He was born fighting. And born hungry.
Drink, drink, Juanito. You'll never have it so good.
He'll have it good. Some day.
What were they saying? About you? In there?
They say I am no good to you.
You are no good to me  in jail.
I'd lie on my cot in the cell and I couldn't sleep with the bugs and the stink and the heat. And I'd say to myself, think of something nice. Something beautiful. And then I'd think of you. And my heart would pound against the cot for love of you.
Not just Juanito. You'll have it good too, Esperanza. We're going to win this strike.
What makes you so sure?
Because if we lose, we lose more than a strike. We lose the union. And the men know this. And if we win, we win more than a few demands. We win... ... something bigger. Hope. Hope for our kids. Juanito can't grow strong on milk alone.
Let them take it!
Over my dead body.
I don't want your dead body. I don't want you back in jail either.
But it's yours. I won't let them ...
Can't you see they want to start a fight so that they can lock you all up at one time?
It's not fair ... I should be there with them. After all, I'm the one who got the women the vote.
No.
But the motion passed. It's ... it's not democratic of you to ...
The union don't run my house. Those Anglo dames stirred you up to make fools of yourselves  but you don't see any of them down there.
Yes, I do. There's Ruth Barnes.
She's the organizer's, wife. She's got to be there.
NO, she wants to be there. And there's Mrs. Kalinsky.
There's Jenkins' wife. You don't see her on no picket line.
Anglo husbands can also be backward.
Can be what?
Backward.
You all right?
Sure.
Must've been some experience for you, huh?
Yes.
I guess you got enough today to last a lifetime, huh?
I'm going back tomorrow.
You might get hurt. Listen, if you think I'm gonna play nursemaid from now on, you're crazy ... I've had these kids all day!
I've had them since the day they were born.
I'm telling you. I don't stay home with these kids tomorrow.
Okay. Then, tomorrow, I take the kids with me to the picket line.
How do you feel?
I'm okay. But it's nice to be home.
Four nights. How did you sleep?
We raised such a fuss they finally brought cots in.
Did you have to sign a pledge? Not to go back to the line?
No, no ... we wouldn't do it.
But if you go back they'll lock you up again.
No, no ... the Sheriff had enough of us. We drove him crazy.
We've got to have a talk, you and me.
All right, but later. I've got a meeting now.
A meeting?
Yes. To plan for the picket line tomorrow.
I waited up till midnight.
You weren't waiting for me.
That meeting only lasted ten minutes. The first night I'm home, and you run to the beer parlor. What is it? Can't you bear the sight of me?
Be still ...
But you wanted to talk. Tell me.
Tell me.
We can't go on this way. I just can't go on living with you. Not this way.
No. We can't can't go on this way. We can't go back to the old way either.
Where are you going?
Hunting.
When?
Sun up.
Alone?
No.
Ramn  you can't.
Why not? I'm not needed here.
But you are needed. Especially now  with most of the other men away. You're captain of the standby squad.
Sure, the standby squad. Standby for the funeral.
Whose funeral? We're doing all right. There hasn't been a scab near the picket line for three days.
And you know why? Because the company knows they can starve us out  even if it takes another two, three months. What's it to them if the mine's shut down a little longer?
It's a lot to them. They'd do anything to open that mine.
Aah! They've got other mines. You don't see the larger picture. They've got millions. Millions. They can outlast us, and they know it.
You mean you're ready to give up?
Who said anything about giving up? I'll never go back to the company on my knees. Never.
Ramn were not getting weaker. We're stronger than ever before. They're getting weaker. They thought they could break our picket line. And they failed. And now they can't win unless they pull off something big, and pull it off fast.
Like what?
I don't know. But I can feel it coming. It's like ... like a lull before the storm. Charley Vidal says ...
Charley Vidal says! Don't throw Charley Vidal up to me!
Charley's my friend. I need friends. Why are you afraid to have me as your friend?
I don't know what you're talking about.
No, you don't. Have you learned nothing from this strike? Why are you afraid to have me at your side? Do you still think you can have dignity only if I have none?
You talk of dignity? After what you've been doing?
Yes. I talk of dignity. The Anglo bosses look down on you, and you hate them for it. "Stay in your place, you dirty Mexican"  that's what they tell you. But why must you say to me, "Stay in your place." Do you feel better having someone lower than you?
Shut up, you're talking crazy.
Whose neck shall I stand on, to make me feel superior? And what will I get out of it? I don't want anything lower than I am. I'm low enough already. I want to rise. And push everything up with me as I go ...
Will you be still?
And if you can't understand this you're a fool  because you can't win this strike without me! You can't win anything without me!
This is what we've been waiting for.
What are you saying?
This means they've given up trying to break the picket line. Now we can all fight together  all of us.
To the mine?
Sure. Where they're negotiating. In the company office. We'll go up there and picket the place.
Come on, Esperanza  how about it? We got to.
No. No. I can't. If Ramn ever found me on a picket line ...
He can't drink this milk. It'll make him sick. He's on a formula. I was a fool! I shouldn't have kept him with me.
Don't you worry. We'll get some action.
It's all set. Consuelo's squad can take they day off tomorrow. We're taking over.
Good. Come in, we'll work it out. Sit down, sit down.
So they had a little taste of what its like to be a woman ... and they run away.
With Ramn it's ... pride. I spoke out of the bitterness in me. And he was hurt.
Are you sick, Mama?
No, Estellita.
Are you sad? Are we going to church? For your confession?
Later. When I finish the ironing.
Mama, can I put the candles ...
Hush... not a word about the cake, hear?
Why are they singing, Mama?
They are singing for me.
Can we light the candles now? On the cake?
Yes. We will light the candles.
Hear you had a little trouble, Quintero. Defective fuse? Well, you're all in one piece. So what's the beef?
You know the beef. This new rule of yours, that we work alone. We're taking it up with the Super.
Super's busy  with your Negotiatin' Committee.
So much the better.
Now wait a minute. Super's the one made the rule. He ain't gonna give you no helper.
He will if he wants us to go on blasting.
Foreman wants to get the ore out. Miner wants to get his brothers out. In one piece.
You work alone, savvy? You can't handle the job, I'll find someone who can.
Who? A scab?
An American.
I checked the drift just before he blasted. It was all clear ... The man must have been asleep or something.
You weren't even there. You were back at the station. Kalinsky told me ...
You're a liar, Pancho. A nogood, dirty ...
Take a drink. Calm down!
I say we gotta take action. Now.
Now why don't you let these gentlemen pass? Don't you know who's in that car?
It's the paymaster from Moscow  with our gold.
No, no, it's the president of the company himself  come all the way out here to make Jenkins general manager. So why you acting so mean?
Jenkins ain't no boss. Mean we're gonna let people like Jenkins stay here?
You can't send him back to Oklahoma. It'd be inhumane.
How goes it?
It never ends.
Three hours! Just to heat enough water to wash this stuff! I tell you something. If this strike is ever settled  which I doubt  I don't go back to work unless the company installs hot running water for us. It should've been a union demand from the beginning.
Yeah.
It's like Charley Vidal says  there's two kinds of slavery, wage slavery and domestic slavery. The Woman Question, he calls it.
The woman question?
Question, question  the problem, what to do about 'em.
So? What does he want to do about 'em?
He says give 'em equality. Equality in jobs, equality in the home. Also sex equality.
What do you mean  sex equality?
You know ... What's good for the goose is good for the gander.
Mornin'.
How's it going?
Well, those new fellows you hired from out of town  we brought 'em up here in a truck this morning, but they took one look at that picket line and turned tail.
Not so sure about that. Letter of the Law, you know. All the injunction says is no picketing by miners.
Whose side are you on anyway?
Now don't get excited, Mr. Alexander. They'll scatter like a covey of quail.
Well?
I've tried everything but shootin' 'em down.
You haven't tried locking them up!
You want 'em all arrested?
No, just the ring leaders. The fireeaters. And the ones with big families ... Barton  where's that boy?
Got any more ideas?
I don't make policy.
I told you it would happen. It's bound to happen when a man works alone!
Why didn't you give a warning signal?
Your foreman says that's a foreman's job.
Want to go up to your office, Mr. Alexander?
Naturally. You think I parked here for a cup of coffee?
You're welcome to one.
No thanks.
The men would like to know who this gentleman is.
That's none of their affair.
I mean it. I know your work record. You were in line for foreman when this trouble started  did you know that? You had a real future with this company, but you let those Reds stir you up. And now they'll sell you down the river. Why don't you wake up, Ray? That's your name, isn't it, Ray?
No. My name is Quintero. Mister Quintero.
Are you going to let us pass  or do I have to call the Sheriff?
There's nothing stopping you.
Hi.
Hi.
You look good.
You look good yourself.
I thought you were never going to call me.
You did?
I really wanted you to call me, and I thought you were never going to 
You could have called me 
No way. No way I was going to be the first woman you went out with after... There is no percentage whatsoever in being the first woman anyone goes out with after...
You <u>are</u> the first woman I'm going out with.
Oh.
So whatdya say? I'll get the check, and I'll call you in eight months.
We can't finish the job. She's on her sixth painter, now she's thinking maybe she wants the fireplace rebricked 
I know her pretty well. Maybe I could call her 
I've already solved it. I've hired a hit man.
Is he there?
No. After he was born, every time we started to make love, he would cry. He had an uncanny sense of timing. We really shouldn't do anything here anyway.
Absolutely. Right.
He's ten.
He's good at it.
I read an article about this ...
I read the same article...
It takes time 
Absolutely. When I come back, maybe the two of us should spend some time together, on our own. What do you think?
Sure. Sure.
Five minutes in the microwave. Any one of them, five minutes and done. Ready to eat. Do you know how to make juice?
Microwave. Five minutes.
Eventually, in a few months, you'll start seeing women, you'll meet someone.
Move on. Right. That's what I'm going to do. In a few months, boom, I'll be fine, I'll just grow a new heart.
I'm sorry 
God, it's wonderful to see you. Where's Greg?
He's over at the boat show. He'll be by later. It's so beautiful here.
You saw her in the airport and then here?
I tried to talk to her... It was like I knew her. Weird.
How's Jonah taking it?
It'll take him a while to come around. A month ago he called one of those radio callin shows and told them I needed a wife 
You're kidding 
Now that I'm seeing someone, it's a whole other thing.
It's a little derivative.
What do you mean?
"An Affair To Remember." Did you ever see it? Cary Grant and Deborah Kerr. Before that it was called "Love Affair With Irene Dunne And Charles Boyer."
Anyway, Victoria's nice.
Would you follow <U>her</U> through an airport?
Look, I met somebody. She's good, and capable and smart. We hit it off. We can't spend your life chasing after fantasies.
Hi.
Hi. Sam?
Yes?
You must be Jonah.
We live two piers over, don't we? Number 12, right? We're having like a really neat open house today from like four to whenever if you care to stop by.
Thanks, but... we've got plans.
Well, here's the number. If you ever find yourself Sleepless, give us a call. We also... do babysitting.
Hi, Sam. And let me guess  you must be Jonah.
Hi. He should book now because we can get an excursion fare. Jessica's parents are travel agents and 
Do you like baseball?
Yes, I do. In fact, my firm has box seats for the Mariners. Why don't we all go next week?
What about camping?
What about it?
Do you like it?
I went camping once. I love to brush my teeth in a brook and floss with a weed.
We ought to start camping again, Dad.
Sure. I'd really like that. Thank you so much.
Well...
I think they're announcing your flight.
Dad 
What is it?
There's somebody on the phone for you. His name is Sam.
I can hear you walking around sometimes. At first I thought it was a robber. Go ahead, tell her, Dad.
I don't think I have to now.
The hopes are perfect  beautiful, identical, smooth  and they are for something really amazing I feel it in my bones 
It's a spice rack.
We desperately need a spice rack. Desperately.
Dad? About last night?
It's never happening again. Right?
Right.
Not.
My feelings exactly.
How many people do you think heard that thing last night?
It plays in 50 states.
What?!
Nobody else is going to know it was us.
You're right. You better hope so.
Dad, I don't know about this one 
Oh, you're changing your mind 
No, I'm not, but 
What's the matter with this one? Wouldn't you like to have Imelda Marcos as your mother?
Dad 
Does red pepper go under R or P?
P. Dad?
What?
I forgot to mention. Jed called 
Just out of curiosity, do you have any friends whose names don't begin with a J? I feel like it was a failure of the imagination on our part naming you Jonah. What is marjoram? Does anyone know?
Jed is having a slumber party New Year's Eve and he invited me.
Fine. Fine.
So I can go.
Sure. Looking good.
Shouldn't you have used a toggle bolt?
I think I know how to have a spice rack.
I'm sorry. I'm just 
Stressed.
Right. I'm sorry, Jonah, I'm sorry.
Just out of curiosity, how did they get our address?
They called and asked for it. "Dear Sleepless in Seattle. You are the most attractive man I've ever laid ears on."
How did they get our phone number?
You have to give them your phone number or they won't let you go on the air.
"Dear Sleepless in Seattle: I am an SWF" What is that?
Thank God. Something you don't know. It's a single white female.
This is no good. She's looking for someone French. Or Greek. "Dear Sleepless in Seattle: I live in Tulsa." Where is that? 
Oklahoma. Do you know where that is?
Somewhere in the middle.
I'm not going to think about what they're not teaching you in school. I am not going to think about it. Generally speaking I think we should rule out people who don't live somewhere near here 
She's willing to fly anywhere.
She looks like my third grade teacher. I hated my third grade teacher. Hold it! Wait a minute! She <u>is</u> my third grade teacher!
Dad, you're not taking this seriously.
This is not how you do it. You want this on an English muffin or a bun?
English muffin. How do you do it?
You see someone you like, you get a feeling about them, you ask them if they want to have a drink or 
 a slice of pizza 
But not dinner necessarily on the first date because by the time you're halfway through dinner you might be sorry you asked them to dinner whereas if it's just a drink, if you like them you can always ask them for dinner but if you don't you can go home if you see what I mean. I wonder if it still works this way.
It doesn't. They ask you.
I'm starting to notice that.
If you get a new wife, I guess you'll have sex with her, huh?
What do you think?
Will she scratch up your back?
What?
In the movies women are always scratching up guy's back and screaming and stuff. When they're having sex.
Whose show was this on?
Jed's got cables.
Go to sleep.
Hi, Dad. Dad, this is Jessica.
It's nice to meet you, Jessica.
Dad, this is amazing. If you play this backwards, it says "Paul is dead."
I know.
How do you know?
It was sinking.
What was?
Our house. There was water coming in all the windows.
You're worried we're going to be all right. We're going to be all right. I remember sometimes you'd have nightmares as a baby. Your mom would hold you and rock you and sing you a song.
Bye bye blackbird.
Is that what she used to sing?
I miss her. What do you think happens to someone after they die?
I don't know.
Like do you believe in heaven?
I never did. Or the whole idea of an afterlife. But I don't know any more. I have these dreams about... your mom... and we have long talks about... about you, and how you are, which she sort of knows but I tell her anyway. So what is that? It's sort of an afterlife, isn't it?
I'm starting to forget her.
I know. But she's here, Jonah. Because I have you. And as long as I have you, I have your Mom.
I... uh... have a date with someone Friday night.
Good.
This one's for both of us.
Sleepless and Son. Baltimore.
Great.
I look stupid. I look stupid, don't I? I look like I'm trying too hard. I was going to get a haircut but then I thought I'd look like I just got a haircut.
This is a good letter, Dad.
The heels on these shoes are very large. Why have I never noticed this? The heels on these shoes are grotesque.
Her name is Annie. Annie Reed.
Now I'm late. Bye.
Listen to this 
Not now, Jonah 
Just this one part, okay? "I have been an excellent thirdbaseman for as long as I or anyone else can remember, and I guarantee you will not get one past me"
Jonah, I'm leaving 
WAIT!!!  "and while we're on the subject, let's just say right now that Brooks Robinson was the best third baseman ever. It's important that you agree with me on that because I'm from Baltimore." Dad, she thinks Brooks Robinson is the greatest.
Dad!
Everyone thinks Brooks Robinson is the greatest.
It's a sign.
Oh, right.
Here is Seattle. And here is Baltimore. Case closed.
She doesn't want us to go to Baltimore. She wants to meet us in New York City on Valentine's Day. On top of the Empire State Building.
Perfect. We'll be there.
I figure we could go to New York, catch the Knicks, and since we'd be there anyway, obviously we'd go to the Empire State Building 
There she is.
Why is she bringing that bag?
She's going to cook something for us?
Okay, tiger. Time for bed.
It's only ten o'clock.
Jonah!
Okay.
Thank Victoria for dinner.
Thanks for dinner. I never saw anybody cook potatoes that way.
I'm glad you liked it. Good night, Jonah.
Don't ever do that again.
I thought I saw a black widow spider.
What are you doing up?
I was thirsty.
There's a bathroom upstairs.
The water tastes better in the kitchen.
That's true. Why is that?
Did you call that radio station again?
No.
Everyone at work heard you.
I just called for a second.
Long enough to call Victoria a ho.
It's a short word.
This is not a joke. Thank God Victoria doesn't know. It would really have hurt her feelings.
If she knew, she'd never forgive me. It would be hopeless for the two of you.
Jonah, this isn't fair. You don't know Victoria. I hardly know her myself. She is, in fact, a mystery to me. She tosses her hair a lot. Why does she do this? I have no idea. Is it a twitch? Does she need a haircut? Should she use barrette so it doesn't keep falling in her face? These are things that I'm willing to get to the bottom of, and that is why I am dating her. That is all I am doing. I am not marrying her. Can you appreciate the difference? That's what single people do, they try people on and they see if they fit. But nobody fits perfectly, everyone is an adjustment.
Was Mom an adjustment?
I'm never going to meet anyone who's going to measure up to your mom in your eyes? What do you think? There's a perfect woman walking around out there?
God, she's beautiful.
Victoria? She's okay.
Dad, I was talking to Jessica about reincarnation, and she thinks that probably you knew Annie in another life.
Who is Annie?
The one who wrote us.
The reason I know this and you don't is that I'm younger and purer so I'm more in touch with cosmic forces.
I sincerely hope you are not going to marry Jessica.
Have you seen my wallet?
It might be in the kitchen.
I'm only going to be away one night, okay, and Clarise will be here. You'll have a swell time. You'll watch a little Geraldo, some Nightmare on Elm Street 12, I'll never know.
Are you going with her?
Yes.
I have to have a life. I have to do things that I want with people my own age. It's none of your business who I am going out with. I don't give a good goddam if you're angry 
This is the one I like.
Fine. I won't say anything. You can marry Count Dracula.
Thank you, Jonah. But the point is, I am not asking permission.
What's wrong with Annie?
Shut up.
Shut up? Shut up??? Mom never did that. Mom never said shut up to me. Mom never yelled at me.
This conversation is finished.
You said we could go to New York.
Did not.
Did too.
I can't know what I said, but we're not going.
I'm not leaving this room until you say yes.
Get out.
No.
Goddammit, I am sick of this 
What if I couldn't get to you?
I was scared of what you were gonna do.
When I found you?
If I didn't go.
Listen, have I ever done anything really stupid?
No.
I mean, so far, have I screwed it up for you?
No.
I can't believe you flew first class.
It was all they had.
Maybe we'll get a dog when we get back.
Okay.
What do you mean, okay? Wouldn't you like a dog?
Sure.
Dad, could you close the door?
H and G. Hi and goodbye.
Write her.
You think so?
It's Y. O. H.
Yeah. What's that?
Your only hope.
This is the best movie I've ever seen in my life.
I don't get it.
You have to go to her, Jonah. You have to find her.
Do you know how much it costs to go to New York?
Nobody knows. It changes practically every day. How much money do you have?
Eighty dollars.
I have fortytwo. So that would definitely cover taxicabs, I think.
But how am I going to get there?
Do you want an aisle or a window seat?
Window.
Do you want a fruit plate?
I don't know. Do I?
I'd rather die than eat on an airplane. I'm telling them you're twelve so you can fly unaccompanied and they won't make you be carried around by a stewardess and everything.
Hey, my plate is full.
Well, okay. What's the big deal? If she'll forget the new fireplace, I'll marry her. Just point me in the right direction.
Sandy has a girlfriend, Clenda ... She's a weightlifter, but it's not like her neck is bigger than her head or anything 
I'm not asking you to set me up, Jay. That's not what I need your help for. I want to know what it's like over there.
And that's what I'm trying to tell you. What women are looking over, okay? Pecs and a cute butt.
You mean, like, "He has the cutest butt"? Where did I hear that recently?
Everywhere. You can't even turn on the news without hearing about how some babe thought some guy's butt was cute. Who the first babe to say this was I don't know, but it caught on.
When's the latest time you were out there?
Seventy... eight.
Well. Things are different. First, you have to be friends. You have to like each other. Then you neck. This can go on for years. Then you have tests. Then you get to do it with a condom. The good news is, split the check.
I don't think it could let a woman pay for dinner.
Great. They'll have a parade in your honor. You'll be Man of the Year in Seattle Magazine. Tira misu.
What's tira misu?
You'll find out.
What is it?
You'll see.
Some woman is going to want me to do it to her and I'm not going to know what it is.
You'll like it.
This is going to be tougher than I thought.
They met at the Empire State Building, only they didn't. Never mind.
What kind of person would write to someone they heard on the radio?
Just because someone's looking for a nice guy doesn't make them desperate.
How about rapacious and love starved?
No.
It is easier to be killed by a terrorist 
It is not 
Right, right.
No last names, Jonah. Hello there, you sound younger than our usual callers. How come you're up so late?
It's not that late in Seattle.
Got me there. What's your Christmas wish, Jonah?
It's not for me. It's for my dad. I think he needs a new wife.
You don't like the one he was now?
He doesn't have one now. That's the problem.
Where's your mom?
She died.
I'm sorry to hear that, Jonah.
I've been pretty sad, but I think my dad is worse.
And you're worried about him.
I'm worried about him, he's worried about me, I ride my bike to school, he follows in the car, like I'm not supposed to know he's there. Now it's Christmas, and you know what happens to people at Christmas.
No.
Why not?
It's very hard for him to talk about this stuff. It's like it makes him sadder.
You want me to talk to him?
Is he home right now?
Yeah.
Well, I think I can help a little more if I talk to him directly.
I don't know 
I'm sure he won't be angry once he realizes how concerned you are about him.
Okay, but if I get yelled at, I'm never gonna listen to this show again.
Fair enough.
I have no doubt that you're a good dad. You can tell a lot from a person's voice. But something must be missing if Jonah feels that you're still under a cloud.
Tell her how you don't sleep at night.
Hello.
Hello, Sam, this is Dr. Marcia Fieldstone on Network America.
I'm probably not interested in whatever you're selling.
I'm not selling anything. Your son called and asked for advice on how to find you a new wife.
Who is this?
Dr. Marcia Fieldstone of Network America.
Jesus, are we on the air? Jonah, for God's sake 
I'm not mad at you. Okay, I'm not mad at you.
I think it's hard for him to talk to you about all this. Maybe we could talk and it would make him feel a little better.
All righ...
Good. How long ago did your wife die?
It's been about a year and a half.
Have you had any relationship since?
No.
Why not?
Look, Doctor, I don't want to be rude, but 
And I don't want to invade your privacy 
We've been talking to  well, let's just call him Sleepless in Seattle, and we'll be right back after this break with listener response, <u>your</u> response, to the things we've been discussing. The number to call is...
What's she talking about?
Do you think there's somebody out there you could love as much as your wife? Maybe even more?
It's hard to imagine.
What are you going to do, Sam?
I don't know. When I met my wife, it was so clear. I just <u>knew</u>.
What was it that made you know?
I don't think I could really describe it.
Why not?
And if I could describe it, it probably wouldn't be on a radio show. But what the hell. It's not one specific thing. It's more of a feeling.
Which means 
The cabinets have to be redone 
Great. This is great. The whole town knows. Just out of curiosity, how do you two know?
Grace heard it.
Grace the dispatcher. Great.
The point is, take the client out to dinner and ask her to marry you and then maybe we won't have to redo the kitchen cabinets.
Why me? What about Jay?
Sam, if you're not doing anything New Year's  obviously you're not doing anything New Year's  we're having some people over, all of them married, not one even remotely interested in playing around. Does that sound great or what? I can't think of the last time I was at a party when anything actually happened.
Thanks, but I'll pass. It's kind of a big night. I don't like to leave Jonah alone.
Sure you do.
Sure you do 
You touch her for the first time, and suddenly... you're home. It's almost like...
Magic.
Magic.
Hello.
Hello.
Hi.
Hi. So far so good. So. What should we talk about? How insecure we were in high school. Shirley Votypka, the first girl I ever felt up. Health. What about health? Did you know that eating six macadamia nuts is the equivalent of eating a steak?
Shhhh 
It's you.
It's me?
The one in the street. I chased after you.
Everybody! Annie has an announcement 
Walter and I are engaged!
It's probably just the flowers 
We'll move them 
The Historical Society wanted this and I never would give it to them 
Granny's dress. Oh, Mom.
I notice these things are back in fashion. Oh, honey. He's a lovely man, Annie.
I know. He's wonderful, isn't he?
Are his folks nice?
You'll love them. We're going down to D.C. tonight to be with them Christmas morning.
How did it happen?
It's silly, really. I mean, I'd seen him at the office, obviously I'd seen him, he's the associate publisher, and then one day we both ordered sandwiches from the same place, and he got my lettuce and tomato sandwich on whole wheat, which of course he was allergic to, and I got his lettuce and tomato on white.
How amazing.
It is, isn't it? You make millions of decisions that mean nothing and then one day you decide to order takeout and it changes your life.
Destiny takes a hand.
Oh, please. Destiny's just something we've invented because we can't stand the fact that everything that happens is accidental.
Then how do you explain that you both ordered exactly the same sandwich except for the bread? How many people in this world like lettuce and tomato without something else like tuna?
It wasn't a sign. It was a coincidence.
I was in Atlantic City with my family. Cliff was a waiter. He talked me into sneaking out for a midnight walk on the Steel Pier. I've probably told you this a million times, but I don't care. And then he held my hand. I was scared. All sorts of thing were going through my head. But after a while I forgot about them. At one point I looked down, at our hands, and I couldn't tell which fingers were mine and which were his. And I knew.
What?
You know.
What?
Magic. It was magic.
Magic.
I knew we would be together forever, and that everything would be wonderful, just the way you feel about Walter. Walter. It's quite a formal name, isn't it? One of the things I truly knew was that your father and I were going to have a wonderful time ... in the sack I believe you call it 
Mom!
Of course it took several years before everything worked like clockwork in that department, so don't be worried if it takes a while 
Mom, we already...
Well, fine, fine. Fiddle da dee. And how's it working?
Like... clockwork.
So you'll get married in a new dress.
It's a sign.
You don't believe in signs.
I think I'm going crazy, Tom. I really do. Are you happily married?
What?
I mean, why did you get married? Was it all fireworks and trumpets and 
I got married because Betsy said we had to break up or get married. So we get married.
But when you met her, did you believe she was the only person for you? That in some mystical, cosmic way, it was fated?
Annie, when you meet someone and you're attracted to them, it just means that your subconscious is attracted to their subconscious, subconsciously. So what we think of as chemistry is just two neuroses knowing that they are a perfect match.
I don't even know him. But I'm having all these fantasies about a man I've never met, who lives in Seattle.
It rains nine months of the year in Seattle.
I know, I know. I do not want to move to Seattle. But what I really don't want to do is end up always wondering what might have happened and knowing I could have done something. What do you think? It's just cold feet, isn't it? Everyone panics before they get married, didn't you?
Yes, I did.
Thank you, Tom. I feel so much better just having blown this off.
Any time.
Perfect. Sandbag the father.
And you crazy? He thinks shows like this are dumb. If you didn't have an 800 number I could never get away with this 
Please 
This is a grotesque violation of this man's personal life, but never mind 
This is a complete disaster. I wanted him to find a wife, but he's got the wrong one 
How am I going to explain this to Walter?
Oh God, it's major. He's kissing her on the lips. I have to stop this.
Come on, Jonah 
Are you Annie?
Yes.
I'm Jonah. That's my dad. His name is Sam.
Hi, Jonah. Sam. And who is this?
Howard.
Howard.
Honey, he wasn't right for you.
I know.
He wasn't even wrong for you, like <u>cosmically</u> wrong, so don't beat up on yourself for wasting...however long it was.
I know.
Maybe you should see a shrink.
I want my money.
Go home for the weekend.
That's what I'm going to do. I'm going to go home. I quit. Laurie, I quit. I'm going back to Baltimore. How does a blonde do a high five?
I need to know about him because... he's involved with my sister...
Okay.
She has a pattern of getting involved with losers... Once she almost ran away with a human cannonball from the circus.
Do you want a matrimonial, past wives, any kids
No, I know that part 
So you want a financial, is he a deadbeat, we can do a D&B 
No, no, no, it's more like, who is he, does he have a sense of humor, is he nice  no forget nice, I've got nice 
A sense of humor.
I'll tell you the truth, I heard this guy on a callin radio show and I might not marry the person I should marry because I've become obsessed with him.
Oh. Like Glenn Close in that movie.
No. Not remotely. I just want to find out about him.
You want a tail. I got a guy in Seattle 
You should write something about this.
About what?
Whatever it is.
It's not true, but it feels true.
There's practically a whole book about how that statistic is not true 
What was that about up there?
What was what?
What's with you?
Nothing's with me.
"Sleepless in Seattle"?
That's what she called him on the show. Because he can't sleep.
And now 2,000 women want his number. The guy could be a crackhead, a psychopath, a flasher, a junkie, a transvestite, a chainsaw murderer, or someone really sick, like Rick.
Actually, he sounded nice.
Oh? Oh, really? Now we're getting down to it.
Not.
You're a basket case.
They knew it. Time, distance, nothing could separate them. Because they knew. It was right. It was real. It was...
... movie. That's your problem. You don't want to be in love. You want to be in love in a movie. Read it to me.
"Dear Sleepless and Son..."
It sounds like the name of a mattress store 
"I am not the sort of person who listens to callin radio shows" 
And this woman is a writer! That's what everyone writes at the beginning of letters to strangers.
I know that. You think I don't know that? "I know that's a dumb way to begin, but it's the only way I can think of to convey what happened to me the other night when I heard the two of you on the radio. On the other hand, maybe I'm just losing my mind."
You are. You're losing your mind. What about Walter?
I'm going to marry Walter. I just have to get this out of my system.
Right.
I should say something in this about magic.
What?
I don't know. I mean, what if I never meet him? What if this man is my destiny and I never meet him?
Your destiny can be your doom. Look at me and Rick.
"I want to meet you..."
"On top of the Empire State Building at sunset on Valentine's Day."
Good. Perfect. I'll be in New York with Walter, I can squeeze it in.
You want to hear about destiny? If my husband hadn't gone on a diet, which caused me to leave him, I would never have been on that flight to Miami, and met Rick, and ended up having sex in the bathroom of a 727 with that nob you slide that says "vacantoccupied, vacant occupied, vacantoccupied" 
You never told me you left your husband because he went on a diet.
He lost all the weight... there.
That's impossible. A guy can't 
Can too.
No.
Yes.
And then you left him? He lost weight there and you left him?
Plus he fell in love with a temp.
Listen to this, I love this part 
Men never get this movie.
I know.
Do you think at the end of the movie when she's in the wheelchair they can still do it?
I always wondered about that too.
Hello.
Turn on your radio!
What?
The kid is on. You've got me listening to this garbage. Go on, turn it on.
I thought I would look into doing a story about those radio shows.
You'd probably have to go somewhere to really look into it.
Definitely.
Did you talk to him?
I couldn't do it. How did I get here?
You told a lie and got on a plane.
That's not what I mean. I'm going back over there tomorrow and talk to him. I am.
Okay. Good. Goodbye.
Becky?
What?
Is this crazy?
No. That's the weirdest part about it.
Thank you. I love you.
I love you, too.
Good night.
You were standing in the middle of the street?
You know that dream where you're walking down the street naked and everyone is looking at you?
I love that dream.
That was nothing compared to this humiliation, nothing.
But he saw you, right?
He said hello.
It's a sign 
It's a sign I've watched this movie too many times. I'm so stupid. From the minute I listen to that stupid program on the radio, I've been a complete jerk.
You don't know who she was, Annie 
I saw her. She looked just like this 
This is a photo of hair.
Well, it's the same woman. And he was crazy about her. What is this? This is from Seattle.
Becky?
So I mailed your letter.
"Dear Annie: Thanks for your letter. It was great. We're very excited about meeting you in New York on Valentine's Day and seeing if we are M.F.E.O. Sleepless in Seattle."
M.F.E.O.?
Made for each other.
So he can't write. Big deal. I mean, verbal ability is a highly overrated thing in a guy, and our pathetic need for it is what gets us into so much trouble.
I'm going to run back to Walter's arms, if he's still have me.
What about the letter?
It doesn't mean anything. It was written before I went out there. Before the ho.
You're going to miss the train.
No, I'm not.
What are your plans in New York?
We're going to the Rainbow Room and the symphony tomorrow night.
I love the symphony.
I hate it. I'm so happy, Becky. Finally I feel happy. This is right. This is real. Everything else is what happens when you watch too many movies and completely lose sight of what counts. Please don't tell anyone about what happened. "Sleepless in Seattle" is history.
The short one with black hair is your cousin Irene 
 who's married to 
Harold, who ran away with his secretary but came back 
 because Irene threatened to put the dog to sleep if he didn't 
And your brother Tom is a psychology professor and is married to...Betsy 
 who is the most competitive woman in the world 
Your Uncle Milton lost all his money in a Puerto Rican condominium that went belly up, don't mention the IRS or the Federal prison system. Your mother is Barbara, your father is Cliff 
I hope he doesn't get out his slides.
Am I what they had in mind?
They're going to love you.
Don't touch them. I feel terrible sneezing at a time like this. This is a big moment for me 
He's allergic to everything, don't worry about it 
If he eats one tiny piece of a nut 
My head swells up like a watermelon and I drop dead.
Is that all right with you?
Today I consider myself the luckiest man on the face of the earth.
They loved you. I told you they would love you and they did.
I love you.
I love you, Walter. Did anyone ever call you anything other than Walter?
Nope.
Even when you were young?
Nope. Not even when I was young.
You sure you don't want to drive with me?
How will I get back to Baltimore Saturday? Oh God, I forgot my present for your stepmother  I took it inside by accident.
I'll wait.
Don't be silly. I'll just be ten minutes behind you.
Happy New Year, darling.
Happy New Year.
I was thinking, I have to go up to Boston for the AAP convention and then visit WinstonHughes about switching over our computers. Why don't we meet in New York for Valentine's Day weekend?
Walter, I'd love to 
We'll stay at the Plaza 
Go for a walk in Central Park 
Go to the Symphony 
We will? The Symphony? Okay. I'll take you to the Russian Tea Room for pelmeni.
What is it?
It's delicious, trust me.
Does it have wheat in it?
I don't think so.
Who is it?
Oh, it's just Becky, she's having trouble with Rich again. Hold on, Becky, I'm going downstairs.
Miss Scarlett. In the broom closet. With the radio.
I gotta go. I'll see you at work. Walter, you scared me. Don't ever do that again.
Becky heard this woman on the radio complaining about this guy she was sure was Rick, which meant he was cheating on her. She was completely hysterical. Then it turned out the woman lived in Duluth.
That doesn't make any sense.
I know. It makes no sense at all. Thank God my life is in place.
Couldn't you just do a phone interview?
Not for the kind of place I want to do. I won't be in Chicago that long.
When you get back, I'll be gone 
And then I'll see you in New York 
Okay, okay.
You go.
Ever since Christmas, you've been different. Kind of distracted, distant. But I feel like you're coming back from wherever you were.
I am. I was just... I just got... I think I got nervous. It's normal, right? Don't you ever feel nervous about, you know?
What?
About forever.
No.
Well, I did. And you know what I think? I think that it was almost... too perfect.
Don't hate me but I love this pattern.
You couldn't.
I do.
It's just like my grandmother's china.
Walter.
It was my mother's.
It's so beautiful. It's just what I would have picked out if I'd had every ring in the world to choose from. You see what I mean. There are people who would like a relationship to be full of surprises, but I am not one of them. Surprises are highly overrated.
Beautiful view, isn't it?
Walter, there's something I have to tell you 
I don't know what to say about it, Walter. It was a form of temporary insanity. But I had to tell you about it because 
 it was a betrayal.
Yes. But it wasn't really. It was just...
So what happened?
I told you. Nothing 
At the top of the Empire State Building 
I'm not at the top of the Empire State Building. I'm here.
Not really. Look, Annie, I love you. Let's leave that out of it. I don't want to be someone you're settling for. I don't want to be someone anyone settles for. I have a life insurance policy, I'm fully invested in growth stocks, I have a paid subscription to Home Rox Office, I have no sexual diseases, I have been steadily employed in a part of the economy that isn't soft, I have expectation in the way of inherited wealth, I dress nicely, I am a member of the private sector, an independent voter, I don't watch Monday Night Football, the only thing wrong with me is that I am allergic to wheat, strawberries, penicillin, pollen, nuts and wool. There are plenty of women who see me as the brass ring. If you don't  marriage is hard enough without bringing such low expectations into it, isn't it?
Oh, Walter. I don't deserve you.
I think that's what I'm saying.
You okay?
Yes. Some people will do anything to get out of going to a symphony.
Oh!
What?
Look!
Tell me he's living in squalor. Tell me everything he has is being repossessed, including his filthy, dented mobile home.
He's got a houseboat.
I hate boats.
It sounds nice.
Boats. You go out in them. You come back in them. I hate them.
Houseboats don't go anywhere.
Boats. All anyone talks about is the wind. Is it up, is it down. I can't live with a man who only talks about the wind.
It's not a boat boat. It's really a house.
But it's on the water.
It's on the lake right in the middle of Seattle. It rains nine months of the year in Seattle.
I hope I don't have to pay for that piece of information.
No, that's free. He's an architect. Used to do big highprofile projects. He scaled it all back when his wife died. Now he remodels people's homes. He works in a small firm, makes a good living.
There's no why, Annie. I'm just not up for it. I never said I was.
Is there somebody else?
Nope.
You don't love me, is that it?
Nope.
How about ... you're too narcissistic to commit to another human being in a long term way.
That's good.
You take the microwave?
What am I going to do with a microwave?
You turn it on, you open it and you stand in front of it for a very long time.
So you're angry. Big deal.
"What is unusual about Miss Carpenter is that she likes to dress her men up as grooms before she devours them. She has already disemboweled six in a row by leaving them at the altar."... I can't ready anymore.
"And her ritual feast continues as she prepares to make a sacrifice out of the seventh fiance. So all bets are on and we hope that this boomerang bride isn't honeymooning with Las Vegas odds makers because many predict that this girl is out of there before the race... before the rice hits the ground" Holy moly.
You tell Maggie.
No, you tell her.
No, no. You're her best friend.
No.
You know, it's just possible that she hasn't read this yet.
Yeah.
Maybe she hasn't read the paper...
So I've come to see it as a bonus, really, that we've been able to plan, and pay for, so many weddings.
Not this one. This one's on me.
I'm not exactly having fun, either... Steady.
Good boy, Port Hole.
His name is Skipper, Dad... Steady.
I changed it. See you later, Mr. Travis. That guy has a problem... Maggie, you can run everyone's life but your own.
I'm really rooting for this one.
Thank you, Dad.
What?
Just stop it. Don't say another word like that.
Maggie, it's just a joke...
No. It's my life.
A harmless joke.
No, it's humiliating and you've been doing it since I was a kid. I don't like it. Stop. You may not like having a daughter with problems. But guess what? I don't like having a father who's drunk all the time. I'll eat in my room.
So  Mag  you've seen this, huh?
Yes, I've seen it. And I have to say it's the rudest and most offensive... joke anybody's ever played on me!
You're a goddess!
I didn't even need to change this gasket, just put in a little hydraulic fluid.
Stop it. When you talk like that, I get turned on and it frightens me.
Reporter?
Yup!
Hold on  Nobody interviews Maggie in here unless they're getting haircut.
She's the boss.
Okay, he's on base. Can we talk about my life now?  Ike's going to turn that tattoo stuff into a big deal  that I was never serious about Gill, blah blah. He's totally out to get me.
For what reason? Some personal satisfaction?
That's what he says, but if he thinks that I don't realize he's writing another article, then he's an idiot.
It's probably because you got him fired.
Ya think?
Not that he doesn't deserve to get fired... Look! Cory's going for second!... Sneaky!
There he is. Snoop DoggyDogg.
Where?
Over there. Ten o'clock. He's talking to our little Dennis. Dennis will turn into one of those "sources say" things.
He looks better with that stuff out of his hair. He's an attractive man.
Good morning to you, too. You look good.
Thank you. Do you think I flirt with Cory?
Yes.
I know. I think sometimes you just sort of spazout with random excess flirtation energy and it just lands on anything male that moves.
On anything male that moves? As opposed to anything male that doesn't move?
I'm going to kill myself.
Why?
Because you think I'm all like... "Hey man, check me out".
No, I don't think you're like, "I'm charming and mysterious in a way that even I don't understand and something about me is crying out for protection from a big man like you". Very hard to compete with. Especially to us married women who have lost our mystery.
But you haven't lost your mystery! You're very mysterious!
No. I'm weird. Weird and mysterious are two different things.
But I'm weird.
No. You're quirky. Quirky and weird are two different things.
Peggy, there's distinct possibility that I might be profoundly and irreversibly screwed up. Despite that, I love you and I can promise that I will no longer flirt with Cory, and I beg your forgiveness.
I'm not worried about you and Cory or Cory and me or even that you're irreversibly screwed up. But, Maggie, you've been like this since we were kids. And I think now that you are aware of it and that it hurts people's feelings, maybe it's time to move on with your life and commit to someone of your own, like Bob, if he's the one.
I think you're right. Is there anything I can do to make it up to you?
Something that brings warmth to my heart. Duckbill platypus.
It's only funny at Camp Birchwood at three in the morning at a tick hunt. It's not anymore.
You're right. It's not funny now. Maybe we both grew up.
Thanks. Will you fix my hair?
Lighten up, wahine.
Lighten up, what?
This party is for you and Bob. Get your mind off the reporter.
I haven't seen him in twentyfour hours. It just gives me the creeps a little bit. I'd feel better if I knew where he was.
Would it?
He's going to be the pastor?
Yep. I want him to be front and center and to watch everything.
What happened at the luau?
... I don't even want to talk about the luau. What's this?
It's for the bell.
Grandma!
See, this is a mature relationship. She's really found it.
He's not coming. Watch. He's not coming.
No, no. I saw eight geese flying in a "V".
You and your lucky geese. You always see geese.
Not eight...
Let's go.
No sauntering down the aisle. Just make time. Let's just get there.
You okay? I'm closing.
I'm just finishing up, too.
Want to go to Butch's for a drink or something?
No, I'm just going to head home.
Okay.
What are you talking about?
Wedding. Wedding. You just have to get the rest of your ducks in a row.
Thank you. You still think that he was....
Quick. Very quick.
I hope you have a different angle. It's pretty much all been covered.
Originality is my speciality.
Excellent.
Well, instead of a haircut, how about a wash? You know, get all that city grit out of it.
You'll answer my questions?
Getting nervous?
Nervous? Not at all! No. I've never been more certain in my life. Except  I am having all kinds of weird dreams.
Weird dreams? You're going to tell me about them?
Yes.
I'm not here to make you feel bad. I'm here for vindication. In my heart...
You have one?
Did something happen to make you care about reality?
Yes. Conviction. Conviction that I'm onto the truth. You're going to do the same thing to "poor bastard number four" that you did to the last three. You're going to run again. And I'm not leaving until you do.
You're going to be very disappointed.
We'll see.
I'd love to stay and chat, but I've got to get back to work. I still have my job.
That's fair.
Despite what you think, I don't do it on purpose. And I have no intention of doing it again.
Everest. Is that right?
Twice...
Really?
Without oxygen...
How romantic.
We think so.
Nothing like sharing your nuptial bed with two Sherpas and a yak.
Grandma made me the cutest outfit. I can't wait to show it to you.
A prewedding luau?
Give me that!
But the most interesting thing here is that I don't see the rose tattoo that I've heard about on your back.
Look, look, man. I think the man is heartbroken.
He is not!
You've been here for three minutes. What did you do to her?
You can turn that finger around.
You misinterpret everything. We've all been friends our whole lives. But that's the types of relationship you wouldn't understand.
Obviously, I'm not the only one who doesn't understand it. The USS Maggie leaves quite a wake... Excuse me.
I take it the desk clerk is one of your many admirers.
How do I do it? I'm not that beautiful.
You're welcome. Your notes made interesting bedtime reading  if you like trashy fiction. Your observations are distorted, ungrounded an incomplete. You must be very proud.
I'm not a boastful man. What's your point?
My point is that one again, you're getting it all wrong. That won't improve your reputation any, and it's not very flattering to me either. So, I'm going to give you a chance to write the truth.
Really.
My magazine doesn't pay because for stories. It's not what you call ethical.
Oh, but making up the facts as you go along is ethical? Actually, I meant you. You probably got severance or expenses or both. I'll take your check. No credit cards.
You've seen the postits. I've already got more juicy material than I need. Why should I pay you dollar one?
Because I think you're writing on spec and with a first person interview, you might actually sell that thing.
Too much.
Sevenfifty.
Five hundred.
Sixfifty.
Done.
It's a birthday present for my cousin. Put your finger in.
Cindy the manicurist.
I think so.
I like it. This whole thing is pretty incredible. I think you could probably sell this lamp idea in New York.
Maybe someday.
You afraid to try?
No, I'm not afraid. Just... Maybe someday.
Well, I'm impressed. Absolutely incredible. I didn't expect pink and lacy, but this isn't exactly a woman's room.
What an incredible chauvinistic observation.
Always a mood killer.
Still sweet.
It's a little "Silence of the Lambs" for me. I can't believe you waited for the wedding to run.
He's an entomologist! I thought it was very unique.
It was one of the most wonderful moments of my life. Cal Ripken even applauded.
Highly suspect.
What do you mean? It was incredibly romantic!
Maybe it's just me, but  if you got to dress it up, it doesn't ring true.
I'm a work in progress.
So? Is that what you said to her?
No. I think I said something eloquent like, "So, uh  maybe we should, ya know. What do you think?"
Now that's romantic. A proposal like that and you didn't find eternal bliss? What went wrong?
I don't know.
You don't know.
No.
Maybe you should ask her some time. Ever thought of that?
Even with everything that's happened I've still never been married and I still deserve a beautiful dress.
Agreed.
You look... uh... You look fine.
Fine. The newspaper's upside down. That's better than fine.
Bob will be very happy.
I'll have the same.
Of course.
What was that? I can't order my eggs without sarcasm?
Tell me. When you get to the altar, will you spike the bouquet?
You know, there's no...
Ike... Hi, Grandma.
Gram here was going to give me the skinny on why you run from marital bliss.
Oh, my God  It's Miles Davis. This is "King of Blue"! This is the original recording. Hard to find in good condition. Where did you find this?
It was in the attic. It was jus sitting there gathering dust.
It's valuable. Hang onto it.
No. You take it.
Hmmm... Figuring out what kind of music I like and then finding me a rare album. You're not trying to soften me up, are you?
No  I'm cleaning an attic. I wouldn't attempt the impossible.
Watch your leg, Dad. I'm so tired of this.
Why don't you let him sleep it off in the trunk. I'll take you for a ride. Then we'll come back for him. Keep an eye on him.
Your filter's clogged. This takes unleaded.
Can you fix it?
First I have to find some tools. I need a half and a ninesixtenth.
Of what?
Wrenches. My dad's gonna love that one.
Kind of isolated.
Yeah. It's kind of nice.
No. But I think attraction is too often mistaken for rightness. Attraction is very misleading. And if it's mutual, it's well, terribly distracting.
Yes it is. And it doesn't mean anything.
Where did you disappear to?
Missed me bad, huh?
I don't know, give me a minute. Are you all right with this?
Excuse me?
Are you all right with this? You think this is funny?
Yes.
I don't and I don't think you should...
I'm the only goddamn person in there pulling for you.
You humiliated me!
No, Maggie, I defended you. Humiliating you is what everyone else is doing. It's the theme of this party.
I had it under control. Now they feel sorry for me.
Well, they should. Because they're about to watch you hang yourself again.
It's fun! It's high.
Or the sexual habits of locusts?
That was very interesting research George was doing!
What kind of Dead Head gets a temporary tattoo?
I already explained about that.
And where you ever really going to run the leper colony in Molokai?
Brian told you that?
Or maybe you just wanted to wear the headdress.
Every one of those times I was being supportive. Something you won't understand.
Supportive? You weren't being supportive. You were being scared. Just like now. You are the most lost woman I have ever laid eyes on.
Lost!
That's right. You're so lost you don't even know how you like your eggs.
What!?
With the priest, you liked them scrambled. With the Dead Head, fried. With the bug guy, poached. Now it's egg whites only, thank you very much.
That's called changing your mind.
No, that's called not having a mind of your own. What are you doing, Maggie? You really want to let that man drag you up Annapuma on your honeymoon? You don't want to climb Annapuma.
Yes I do!
No you don't. You want a man who will lead you down the beach with his head over your eyes just so you can discover the feel of the sand under your feet. You want a guy who will take you into a cave with a thousand candles just to read you a poem. You want a man to wake you up at dawn because he's burning to talk to you and he can't wait another minute to find out what you'll say. Am I right?
No. No  Actually, let's make Ike the pastor.
I'd rather not.
Come on, it'll give you a great view. It's perfect. Hey.
I'm sorry, Bob. She kissed me back.
I kissed him back.
About a minute...?
A little longer for me.
Really?
Okay. So... what, uh... What just happened? Just now? Jus then? In there?
I don't know. I, uh  I frankly don't even want to talk about it.
Me, either.
I love you. I love you.
I love you, too.
To who? Are you asking me?
Me?
Yes, you!
Well, you do have the dress.
And the church.
And the wedding date. There's the two of us. So, you think... maybe... You have to go down the aisle with somebody you love and who love you back.
I'm okay with that.
So am I.
So, we'll...
I've been making friends with your cat. Is it okay that I'm here?
I don't have much choice in the matter now, do I? But I can't speak for Italics. Traitor!
Livid is good. So what is it, Maggie? You here on business? I saw your lamps. They're terrific.
It's something I've always wanted to do.
You actually could make breaking and entering into a new career. So, what are you doing here?
I wanted to talk to you about why I run or ride away from things.
Does it matter?
I think so... When I was walking down the aisle? I was walking toward somebody who didn't have any idea who I really was. And it was only half the other person's fault, because I had done everything to convince him that I was exactly what he wanted. So it was good that I didn't go through with it because it would have been a lie, but you  you knew the real me.
Yes, I did.
I didn't. And you being the one at the end of the aisle didn't just fix that.
Used?
They're mine. I'm turning in my running shoes to you.
This is getting serious.
You were not.
I was, because if you said "yes" right away, I wouldn't get to say this next part. And I've been practicing it. Ready?
I'm listening.
"I guarantee that we'll have tough times. I guarantee that at some point one or both oof us will want to get out. But I also guarantee that if I don't ask you to be mine, I'll regret it for the rest of my life. Because I know in my heart  you're the only one for me".
Pretty good speech, Maggie.
I borrowed it from this guy I know. So?
They made me put my hat back on.
Oh, yeah. Scared the hell out of Skipper.
Gee, I hope they don't have a fight out there. You don't think they'll call it off...?
Well, wedding cake freezes. This we know.
You know, your daughter seems...
Like her mother.
Ah, beautiful. I just can't see her leaving multiple grooms in the dust like that.
Dad's fishing trip, Grandma's knee operation, Grandma's birthday...
Gotta tell you this about my daughter. My daughter makes real good time, even in a long dress and heels. Maggie may not be Hale's longest running joke, but she certainly is the fastest.
Yes, I am. And who are you?
Betty Trout. Five dollars.
Oh, Betty. I take it you're going to be making the wedding cake and they say you're throwing 
 The luau for Maggie.
Your two cinnamon rolls.
Bye, Betty. Thanks.
You should thank Lou and I for the wedding car  a '63 Buick.
Thank you.
Oh, come on. You're practically family.
Hello. I'm looking for Maggie Carpenter. There was a sign at the hardware store across the street...
Are you a reporter?
What?
It's been our experience that anyone with some sort of gewgaw on his loafers ends up being another big city reporter wanting to interview Maggie.
About her upcoming wedding and all.
No, about her getting that asshole from New York fired.
I am just such a reporter. And you are?
Peggy Phleming. Not the ice skater.
And you are?
Looking for Maggie.
Yep. Maggie  Someone to see you.
I think you'd look good in red.
No, she's talking about your hair.
Have you listened to his morning show, "Wake up with ballplayer"?
Not yet. I had a phlemless morning. I hear he's a pretty good ballplayer.
This game is pretty important to him. He made allstars in high school, you know.
That must have made you proud.
It's nice that they're still friends.
Oh, sure. That was a long time ago. See, she's not a manhater at all. She's very supportive of men...
Sorry, no. I just got one.
Excuse me, sir. I have an actual fact for you.
Yes, Mrs. Pressman.
It's her fourth time to the altar, you know. Not seven like they said.
I know. Tell me something. Do you think she's going to make it all the way this time?
I'm not sure. Mr. Schullian runs the newsstand, he's our local bookie, you know, he's giving eight to one odds she won't. He says she's so famous now, maybe Vegas will give odds on her. I'm going to wait to hear what the pros say.
Good fact. Well, you let me know.
Oh, I will.
Well, I'm off. A reporter's work is never done. Mrs. Pressman, thank you.
Tootaloo.
It's okay. There's no microphone. You're no fun.
No, I'm not.
Get this man a Kamikaze.
Splendid dissection of Maggie Carpenter, very professional job.
You could have told me you were fiance number three.
And end up in the papers? I've been humiliated enough already to last a lifetime, thank you. I'm sorry she got you canned.
Thanks.
She's a cacophony of contradictions.
Well, I'm writing another article on the cacophony.
Ah, can't stay away from her, can you? Like a moth to a flame.
Guess you'd know about that. You're an entomologist, right? How's business?
Not bad. I was traveling around studying the reproductive and migratory patterns of locusts when Maggie met me.
Neuter a locust, feed the world.
Same as you said. What did you call her? A "maneater", "a devouring death goddess."
I don't think that's why she ran.
Why do YOU think she ran?
I don't know. I'm working on it. I was on the wrong track.
And you defending her?
No. I call it like I see it. I'm a journalist. I'm a truth teller.
Unbelievable, she got to you.
Oh, please!
Ellie asked me to come down to offer moral support.
Since when does Ellie need moral supp
In vino veritas.
Don't knock drunk guys in bars. Drunk guys in bars are good. It means they're not driving.
Ike, I really liked the Runaway Bride piece, and since I do freelance stuff for G.Q., I'm in a different position now...
What are you trying to say to me, Fish?
Vindication. How would you like to get some? A chance to prove that, though your facts weren't entirely straight, your theory was correct.
The real story on Miss Carpenter.
All the gory details.
The anatomy of the black widow spider of Maryland.
It wouldn't be a bad way to get you back into writing feature pieces again.
This is good. It is a good story, Fish.
If she runs, then it's a cover story. All true. All accurate.
Okay, you were right. I hated my column, but I can do this assignment.
Then you've got it. If you leave tomorrow for the hinterlands, you'll have plenty of time before her next wedding trot.
"Paid vindication" That's what I call justice.
Justice, yes. Paid, I don't know. They like the idea, but my hands are tied with budget restraints.
But I'll get my normal fee, right?
Don't say "spec" like it's a dirty word. Nobody ever paid Shakespeare to write a play! Plato never got a book advance...
Oh yeah! I happen to know from reliable sources that Nietzche got expenses and a rental car.
Yes, well, my theory was that she may be running because she gets attention... Negative attention is attention. Like when women whack you on the street because of your column, that's negative attention.
This is about her negative attention, not mine. Did you get the reimbursement for the dress yet?
No, I'm paying for the dress. Do you think she's still gonna run?
I don't know.
Look  I'll be in there later today. I'll come by and tell you all about it.
You're coming here?
Yeah.
Then come for dinner.
Okay, we'll order out.
Order out like a Philistine, when you got the Galloping Gourmet here?...
No... They're interesting guys. Each one of these guys has something going for him. I mean, one's been up Everest. Another's become a priest. One's a pretty good guitar player. And this guy today tried to end world hunger, if you can believe that...
Whoa, Ike. Getting a complex, buddy?
Of course we are. Of course.
Then you'll be my best man.
Well, I'm good, I don't know if I'm best.
Go talk to the pastor and he'll tell you what to do. And someone will tell me what to do.
I have no idea what I'm doing.
Your job is... the ring. Do you have the ring?!
I just found out I'm best man! I'm lucky I have a suit... What's wrong?
Overpriced nice apartment and Chinese takeout. That's New York living.
... Just call me when you have it. Ike, how is the story coming? Is she a maneater?
Or a vegetarian?
Or does she pick "NGB'S"  "Nice Guys, But..." Nice guys, but I'm cheap. Nice guys, but he lives with his mom... Nice guys, but he just out of prison.
Look, he's running after her.
Look, he's in pretty good shape.
Poor Ike.
Fully. I like her. She has wit.
I left four messages. You don't return my calls.
So? I never returned your calls, even when we were married. And what's Fisher doing here anyway?
 It's for you, Ike.
What?
Journalism lesson number one. If you fabricate your facts, you get fired.
Lesson number two. Never work for your former spouse.
That's not nothing to do with it. You cooked this story up and you know it.
I didn't cook up a story. I had a source.
Someone reliable, I'm sure. A booze hound in a bar?
No, that's what makes you unemployed.
I merely write the stuff. You're the one that serves it up.
Lawyers. I don't know, Ellie  Firing me is going to be very tough on you. It's going to be hard to get over. There will be therapy bills for you.
I already made an appointment for later today.
See? You want custody of my job? ... Why not just consider my wrist slapped and call me when you feel I've served my time?
I'm sorry, Ike. This is permanent.
Fisher, let him talk.
But one of those guys  not one of them  knew her at all. Each one was convinced that she was perfect for them, but they didn't see her. And she never showed up so they couldn't see her. It's a very symbolic thing happening. She becomes what she thinks they wanted to be.
Is that what I did to you? Is that what happened? Did I just not see you?
No. No, you didn't.
Well  I'm sorry, I'm really sorry, Ellie.
I'm sorry, too. Wow. That only took us between years to say.
Maggie!
Where do you think she's going?
Tell me, why does Maggie need another wedding rehearsal and two days before the wedding? She's already done this.
Bob is making her visualize the ceremony.
Bob's in a hurry.
Don't be nervous, Maggie. Let us visualize. Remember what Bob said? "Be the ball."
"Sink the putt."
"Make the shot."
"Nothing but net."
"Never say die."
I love his eyes. I just believe they're listening to you.
His hair... any color.
Rub your ears.
Yes, rubbing your ears is very soothing. Cory does that to me when I hyperventilate.
That's it. Back to obedience school.
Okay  have a seat... gently, carefully.
And in a "V".
Eight is good... "V" could be Victory.
We do it to our dog.
It's hurting.
We'll rub.
I'll get the dress.
He's here!... He's here!
Actually, he only asked me one ridiculous question. The rest weren't so bad.
What? You talked to him! Did you tell him we dated before you were a priest?
Yes, yes, I'm sure I only did you good, Maggie.
What did he ask?
Only respectful things. What did we have in common back then... What kind of music did you like... Did you ruin my life when you left me standing at the altar...
And what did you say?
How could I be angry at you when clearly what has happened to me is as God intended?
Good one! Thanks.
It happens to be how I feel.
God... Of course. I'm sorry  I mean, I'm... Brian  I've got to go. The man's a lunatic, but I know exactly where he's going next.
God bless you, Maggie.
He wanted to know how you used to like your eggs.
Weird. Like after all those years you would remem
I'm really sorry that I hurt you, Brian.
I'm happy here, where I'm supposed to be. But if you ever become a Catholic, may I ask you a favor, Maggie?
Of course.
Could your confess to Father Patrick from now on?
Of course.
Ahh.
I'm the town's unofficial fitness trainer. Big advocate of the mind and body combining for success. You could say or you can quote me, I'm a glass half full king of guy.
See you at the wedding.
You bet ya, Coach.
At this pace, it could be an evening wedding.
Hold it! Hold it! I think we're taking this too fast.
What do you expect me to say to this?
How about  "I hope you'll be very happy together"?
You look awful.
Thank you.
Really?
I didn't want to find out I wasn't for her in the fourth quarter.
Got any last minute advice?
Maintain eye contact.
What is he up to now?
Ike just came by to check out the team.
Bob  are you making friends with this man?
I'm just bragging about how great you are. I'm the luckiest man alive.
At the wedding? You invite him? Bob, don't you realize he's writing another article about me?
Sure I do. But the bet defense is a good offense, right? You're not going to let your opponent throw you off your game.
You don't understand this guy.
Let him come to the wedding. You're not running, right? Say it. "I'm not..."
I'm not running.
So if you're not running and Ike Graham is there to see it, then any article he writes has got to have a happy ending, right? All we're doing is turning lemon into lemonade.
I've got news for you. No amount of sugar and water is going to turn like Graham into something you want to take on a picnic.
Right.
I lead Maggie through a visualization exercise. All the sports shrinks use this head stuff. Visualize the end zone, if you catch my drift.
Yes.
Let me take you back inside, okay?
When were you going to tell me you were not going with us?
I still have work to do here.
I don't believe you. My father was explaining to Mr. Griffin. That is how I found out.
I was trying to find the right time.
After I left?
I will not have friends in America.
Soon Young, don't worry. You will have many friends very soon. You will see. America is a very friendly place.
I would like one of my people to help.
Ambassador, let me assure you that the FBI has made this a top priority. We have plenty of manpower on the case.
He is very good.
As I said, sir, we've got all the people we need.
I am not an American, Mr. Russ. My daughter is not an American.
I understand, sir. But you are an honored guest of the United States...
He is already on the plane. I hope you will treat him with the same respect you have shown me.
Come on. Let's get you some dry clothes.
Carter, can I have a moment?
I am so sorry about your men.
Yes sir, me too. The State Department has authorized release of the funds. We'll have to make the first drop at 7. As soon as they pick up the money, we've got em.
And Mr. Lee? Where is he?
Don't worry, he's with Carter.
Hello.
Han?
Yes.
It's Griffin.
Griffin? Where are you.
Yes.
You have what I asked for?
I do.
Pack it into black garbage bags. Throw the bags into a garbage dump in the alley behind the Fang Shan Restaurant in China Town. You have twentynine minutes left.
Hello.
Ambassador Han.
Yes.
Even if you deny the FBI is there, I will assume you are lying.
My daughter.
She's fine.
Can I speak with her?
Yes.
You have run out of time. The amount now is two hundred million. I will call later with instructions. You will either deliver the money or pick up the body of your daughter.
Please, you must understand, what happened today was not 
Hello.
Take the money with you tonight. Pack it in six dragons. You will be contacted again.
I want to speak with my daughter!
Hey, hey, you start touching me there, I'm gonna start movin'! Word up, mother...
Shut up!
You a cop or something?
Or somethin'.
This is not a good way to start a relationship, stickin' a gun to a man's head, feelin' around his personal equipment. Make him think you don't trust him.
I don't trust anybody. Especially first time deals.
I oughta pat your ass down. Make sure you're not a cop.
Nobody touches me.
Shit, I ain't interested in puttin' my hands on you. That does nothin' for me. No. I don't need to be pattin' no ass. All I'm sayin' is, how do I know you're not a cop?
You know something? Every time I see this stuff, it reminds me of...uh...a double latte grande... With two shots of nonfat milk.
What are you talking about?
What's this little green wire coming out one side of the package?
I wouldn't touch that if I were you.
Okay, look, we're gonna make a trade. You cross the street, leave her on the sidewalk. I will leave him on this side. Then we trade places. You get him, I get her. Get the picture, Lois?
Do it!
You got a boy friend in here yet? Cause you're gonna need somebody to kiss your ass goodbye.
What are you talking about?
You're movin' to death row. See, your fingerprints are now on the murder weapon of Four FBI Agents. And when I turn this into the lab, they're gonna find Lafontaine all over it. And we already know... ...this is your MO.
How did I do this?! Maybe you didn't notice but I'm in jail!
All I gotta do is implicate. The Feds can do a lot with a good implication. Even if you don't get Sparky, I'll bet you get ten to twenty more. Plenty of time to find a nice fella.
You sonuvabitch.
I'm waitin' here for a name.
Where do we find him?
You don't. He finds you. Through his people.
Any demands yet?
At this point we don't have much.
How much they want?
You come highly recommended, Carter. And your particular assignment requires a special talent.
Interrogation is one a my specialties, but undercover work is my forte.
... the director considers this top priority, considering he is a Chinese National and here under difficult circumstances. His name is Lee. And he is to be shown every courtesy. Within reason.
Sir, he's just gonna get in my way. If I'm gonna handle this situation...
He is the situation.
I'm talking about the girl.
Don't worry about the kidnapping, Carter, the F.B.I. will handle that. Your assignment is Lee.
What kind of assignment is that?
Bottom line: I don't want some Chung King Cop getting his head blown off and turning this operation into a international incident.
Why don't you assign one of your own men to this?
Because with your special talents, I'm sure you'll do a better job.
What the hell am I supposed to do with him? Take him to the zoo?
Just make him think you're following leads. Interview some suspects, look at fingerprints, do detective shit. I don't care. I just don't want to see him or you, for that matter until this is resolved. Now, we want to make a good impression, don't we? His plane lands in an hour. Don't be late.
What do you mean you lost him?! How could you lose him?!
Try a bus load of  no, make that two bus loads of Chinese 
You understand what I'm sayin'?
Carter, shut up!
Yo, Johnson...
You think this is funny, Carter? You send for someone from Explosives!? Four men just died in there!
Hey, man, you can use her. She's an expert!
That's what you were supposed to be!
Hmmmm?
Don't play bullshit games with me.
Eleven thirty tomorrow the Ambassador will receive a phone call telling him where the drop is. He said the bomb was a demonstration of their sincerity.
Oh yeah. The caller was a man. Confident. Had an accent. My guess, Asian. Anything else I can do for the FBI, sir?
Why don't you try the assignment. Or should I call and ask for somebody who can handle it?
No, sir. I'm as good as it gets.
Okay, let me start from the top. A few days ago I was on this munitions dealer named Lafontaine. Now, after the shit blew up last night...
I'm not interested, Carter. You're no longer on this assignment.
What?!
And your buddy, Mr. Lee, is on his way back to China. Now, get out. Before I file obstruction of justice charges against you.
Yeah...beautiful. What would you call that paper there? Kind of a...Robin egg blue color?
Good. That's standard military packaging for plastique. Get a look under it.
Not anymore.
Where'd you get it?
You're killin' me here.
Carter, just because you saved my butt, doesn't mean it's yours.
Oh, baby, you cruel...
Last night's as much my fault as yours. If he's gonna put the blame on anybody 
Hey, I was senior. It's OK. This is why I get the big bucks.
Hey, baby, it's cool. Captain just reassigned me to the Feds.
The Feds?!
FBI needs a taste of the street. And I'm it.
Way he put it, I was the only one he thought could handle it. But you know what the worst thing is?
No...what?
I could get promoted right out of here.
What's wrong with that?
I wouldn't be close to you. What is that perfume, girl?
How'd what go?
With the FBI. What do you think I'm talking about?
Oh, you're not gonna believe what they put me in charge of. They sent for the Ambassador's personal Chinese Investigator type. He is like the baddest Asian shield they got. And I, let me repeat that, I am the man who is on the case with him. Just the two of us, alone, workin' the whole deal as a team.
They put you in charge?
In Charge. Just me'n him. No interference. They don't even want to hear from us until we're done. I love the F.B.I. I love the F.B.I.
Well...listen, if you need any help, you know, back up, call me, OK?
Oh baby, don't worry, I'll call you. You can count on it.
OK. Well...make us proud. And be careful.
Well.. I wouldn't want to be in the way.
No way in the way! I'm talkin' back up, Johnson. I'm in charge! And I need you, baby.
You got a lot of guts calling me.
Yes I do. That's all I got. Guts and you, Johnson. There's no one else I can trust.
You made a fool out of me! In front of the FBI!
Listen, this ain't about us! It's about a thirteen year old girl. She's not gonna make it. Unless we do something.
Jesus...what do you want?
This whole thing is goin' down tonight. I need to know where the Ambassador is gonna be. The Feds will be keepin' a lid on everything. You thing you can do that?
This is my city. I'm a cop. I'll find em.
Alright, Johnson, thank you. So...what are you wearing?
Oh my god...what happened to you?
It's called a dress.
It's called you're gonna kill me. What're you doin' with that on?
Wait a minute. I'm not riding in that.
What?! This is a class ride, Johnson.
Yeah, if you're Superfly.
That's it! You can attack me, but when you attack my car, I cannot forgive! You in the back, girl!
You don't like it?
It's okay. For restaurants.
You OK?
We saved the girl and got the bad guys, didn't we?
Yeah. So why you look do down?
Look at me! My dress is ruined. I look like shit.
Not to me. Never to me.
How about a lift home?
Absolutely. I'll even let you ride in the front seat.
You talk very fast.
Okay, I'll slow down. So we go downtown and we ask you a few questions... you know, like what's your name? How old are you? You ever expose yourself in public...shit like that.
Beach Boy.
You're shittin' me. You know the Beach Boys?!
Beach Boy America. Help me Rhonda, help me get her out of my 
Help me Rhonda.
Let me give you a piece of advice: never touch another man's radio. You do it again, nobody, not Rhonda, not Yolanda, gonna save your ass.
You have one of these?
No.
Yeah, well you're in American now. Everybody's got guns. That tricky shit with your hands is gonna get your ass shot to hell.
You speak English!
A little.
Bullshit a little. You lied to me.
I didn't say I didn't. You assumed I didn't.
It's the same thing!
I am not responsible for your assumptions.
You're full of shit. Do you understand what I'm saying to you? Full of shit?
Not being able to speak is not the same as not speaking. You seemed as if you liked to talk. I like to let people talk who like to talk. It makes it easier to find out how full of shit they are.
Okay, fine, you're full a shit, I'm full a shit.
We are both full of shit.
Yeah, that's right. Now that we understand each other... show me how you did that.
I am afraid I don't understand the importance of this information.
Look, you want to work in this country, you gotta know this crap. Okay? We're gonna be in some deep shit here. Working the danger zone. And you need insurance. Cause, you know, you might be starting some riots and shit.
 what the hell is that?
What?
That sillyass look on your face.
I was being polite.
Well don't do that. Polite don't work here. You do that polite shit here in America, they'll sue your ass for harassment.
Where were we?
Witnesses.
Wait. You hungry? You gotta be hungry, you just flew in from China. And what'd they feed you, Chinese food, right? Then you gotta be hungry. Hell, it doesn't matter, I'm hungry. We'll get some food on the way to the Consulate.
I thought you were taking me to the consulate.
Oh yeah, but this is on the way. And you gotta see John Wayne's footprints. Everybody does. It's almost like a law. You can't believe how small his feet were for a dude that big. Tiny god damn feet!
You're a regular god damn acrobat, aren't you? Bet you feel real good makin' me look like an asshole.
It was not my intent 
Right....
Mr. Carter, I appreciate your desire to show me a good time, but that is not the reason I am here.
Let me just clarify a few things. I don't care what kind of cop you are in China, you have no jurisdiction in America. Without me you are just another tourist.
What about them?
I know a shortcut.
Shortcut?
You don't know what a shortcut is?
You make the plate?
What plate?
The license! You get it?!
No.
What the hell kinda cop are you?!
Did you make the plate?!
It was my ass that almost got trashed!
He was trying to kill me, not you.
Yeah, sure, you got lots a enemies in L.A. after what? Six hours?
It was a man I was after in Hong Kong.
Bullshit! You were trying' to lose my ass again.
When a man steps in dung, it is obvious. There is no need to rub it in his face. The smell is the same.
What is that, some kind of Chinese proverb?
No. I just made it up.
I worked with Ambassador Han and his family for ten years. He wanted me to come with them to America. If I had, this might not have happened.
Don't go there...
I could not come. I had other responsibilities.
Hey, stop. We're just gonna wind up in some bar, drinking' to forget all the things we shoulda done and then you'll start singin' Beach Boy songs again. Then I'll really get depressed.
I also did not come because I think I would not fit in America.
Hey, everybody fits in here. Look at L.A., man. Nobody's from here. My momma's from Detroit, my dad's from Atlanta, they met in Texas, got married in Vegas and I was born in Alabama. So where the hell am I from? Kenya?
Alright, listen, no bullshit just tell me straight: did you really know the guy you were chasin'?
Yes. He was part of the Juntao crime family. He may be Juntao himself. And he dropped this.
When we go inside, you let me handle everything, you hear? This is my man, you dig? My informant. You know what an informant is?
Stooly.
What?
Stool pigeon.
Yeah, somethin' like that. OK, now this is a nasty ass place. When you go into a place like this, the most important thing is control. You got to maintain control. You following me? You lose it, you get hurt. Now, you're my responsibility and I don't want you hurt. You understand? OK, let's go.
You talk too fast.
Come on!
Let's go. Everybody take off?
Took off. Yes. They took off.
You see what I'm sayin'? You control the space.
Thank you. I learn a great deal.
It happens.
Let's get us a photo and description. We'll have an APB out while we stake out the restaurant.
That is a problem. There is no description of Juntao. No known photograph.
Are you tellin' me nobody knows what he looks like? Come on, there must be witnesses somewhere.
Juntao's standing orders were to kill everyone. There were never witnesses.
You like it?
Yeah, it's good.
That one is my favorite. Chicken puff with shark fin.
You want more?
No, no. I'm full. Too much fin and hump, you know, gives me gas. scuse me.
Now, that's American music.
Yes, I know this song.
You know War?
Who does not know War? War, hhh, Wooohwooohwooh. What is it good for? Absolutely nothing. GoodGod, you all.
That's not how it goes.
Yes, I think so.
No, no. It's not goodGod you all! It's GoodGod, ya'll. Ya'll!
Yeeaww.
Not yeeaw, Ya'll. And it's gotta be angry. Like you're pissed off.
Good God, ya'll!
No! You hate me. Look, I'm gonna do it one time. That's it.
Are you OK?
I got to stop that dancing in the street till all hours.
Want some?
No, fish is a PM food.
Excuse me?
Nobody in America eats fish in the AM. We're talking strictly an after twelve noon food type.
What?!
It's him.
Which one?
Going into the restaurant.
This is my territory now. You are my responsibility.
This concrete? This is still America.
What do you hear?
OK, when you go in, just act like you're from outa town.
I am from outa town.
No, like a tourist. You know, things to see, money to burn, interested in stupid shit.
Like that.
I am sorry, but I have too much respect for women.
No, please, I don't 
It ain't your ass, it's my ass you're backin' up. Take the damn gun.
No, wait. I don't have it. You have it.
Oh yes.
Oh no, I dropped it.
You drop my gun and you lose my i.d.?
I'm sorry.
I'm sorry, Lee.
Be sorry for Soon Young. She has no chance now.
What are you doing here?
Well, I ain't goin' to China. And neither are you.
Oh no.
What?
The art.
No, it is China, my country, my history. If any of it gets damaged...
Hey, don't worry. Nothing's gonna happen to it.
Oh my god. Griffin.
You know him?
What a surprise!
FBI calls up my ass, says they need help in Tokyo. Like I'm supposed to drop everything.
It's Hong Kong, not Tokyo. My country asked for the best. I told them that was you. Now I will show you around my hood.
No shark fin, no camel hump. What you listenin' to?
Oh, I think you like this very much.
Ooo, there's a chill. Love that.
Carter.
He stole my wheel!
This is pathetic.
I'm gonna arrest the sonuvabitch! Your ass is goin' to jail!
He'll be OK. Russ is a tough son of a bitch.
Tell me about it.
He was just doing his job.
So was I.
I don't know what went wrong last night, but this department could've lost one detective and our only explosives expert.
Sir, I can explain.
What you did was dangerous and completely outside policy.
I know, but 
That's probably the only reason Johnson's still alive.
Good job.
Hey, sir, it was a pleasure to preserve Johnson's ass. Well...you know what I mean.
I got a call from the F.B.I. The daughter of the Chinese Ambassador has been kidnapped and they asked for help. You're it.
Feds asked for me?
They asked for the best street man I had.
And that, of course, would be me.
Don't push it. You better watch your ass with these Fed types. If there's a screwup, they won't think twice about burnin' it.
You don't move, you understand?! You don't move!
Do I look like I'm movin'?! What you're seeing here? This is not movement. This is my "still".
You know what a phone booth is?!
The bomb was meant as a demonstration of our sincerity. If you want the Ambassador's daughter back alive, listen and do not talk.
Lee! It's him!
The first drop will be made tomorrow. At twelve o'clock. The amount will be fifty million.
Fifty million! Are we talkin' United States dollars?
In used currency. Nothing bigger than a fifty.
That's some serious poundage in dollars.
What is your name?
That's cool. We're gettin' to know each other. This is a good thing. I'm Carter.
Carter. I just want to be able to tell the Ambassador who was responsible for the death of his daughter because he talked too much.
Hey, that's whacked! I thought we was gettin' on here!
Shut up!
OK. Say what it is.
The Ambassador will receive instructions for the drop, half an hour before it is to be made. If it is successful, there will be more. Thank you, Agent Carter.
Chin, you have been ordered by the Ministry of Public Security to assist the FBI and Secret Service with our investigation, to provide us with whatever we need. If you have information, it belongs to us.
This is still Hong Kong.
Two Americans have been killed on United States Government property  this is our investigation.
Chief Inspector Lee will brief your people...
No. He will report to me. Do we understand each other?
Who the hell is that?
That is...Chief Inspector Lee. The detective in charge of our investigation.
Put a diaper on him, Chin. I want to talk to the great Inspector Lee.
Didn't I teach you to always arch your back?
Yes, Master.
I need your help, Master. I'm seeking a man who used to train with you. He's become a killer  the worst kind of animal.
Animals kill only from hunger or fear. The man you seek is lower than a serpent. ...he kills for money.
He was the best I ever trained, you know.
Ricky Tan?
No. Your father. Your father and Ricky Tan were my favorite students... and for such awful things to happen as they did 
A seeding spends its entire life reaching towards Heaven.
I know, Master, but...
The answers you seek can be found in Heaven on Earth.
Heaven on Earth? Master, I don't understand. A temple, where Heaven is on Earth? A mountain, where Earth reaches for the 
It's a massage parlor downtown. "Heaven on Earth." You will find your answers there.
Lee, I've missed you, brother. I heard about the two Americans, I'm so sorry, you must be under great pressure.
You must come with me for questioning.
Despite what people suspect...what you suspect 
Don't.
... if your father were alive, I would be turning to him now. I didn't blow up the American Embassy, but I believe some of my people did. My enemies are trying to frame me. There is a war going on within the Triads  and I am going to lose. My name has been written into the book of death.
The police can protect you.
Nobody can protect me. I'll make a deal with you, Lee. But only iff you'll get me out of Hong Kong.
Tell me why they killed the customs agents.
There is a ship, in the Hong Kong Harbor...
You're just like your father, Lee. All these years hiding behind his badge. I wanted to help him, to share with him, but he was too afraid of change. When you think about it, I didn't really kill him. I just put him out of his misery.
Put the plates down. It's over.
I don't think it's over. There are casinos all over this country. Let me make you a rich man, Lee. Don't make the same mistake he did.
If you reach for that gun, I'm going to kill you.
Don't you remember? I'm already dead.
Lee, there was a bombing at the American Embassy. Two American translators were killed.
Any leads?
We think it's Ricky Tan. If you don't want to take the case, I'll understand.
It's my responsibility.
Lee, this is Special Agent Sterling from the United States Secret Service.
The Secret Service? Why?
All he wanted was some mushu.
Are you okay, Lee?
Lee, we just got a call from the harbor patrol. Ricky Tan is throwing a little party on his boat tonight. Victoria harbor. If you don't want to...
Did you tell Sterling?
Let him find out on his own. I want the Hong Kong police handling this.
Thank you.
Escort Detective Carter to the airport 
I'll take him.
Master Ching taught me.
The Praying Mantis school, in Bejing?
No. Freddy Ching's, in Crenshaw.
What are you doing hanging out with Baby Duck?
Baby Duck?
That's what we all used to call him when he was a kid  cause he was always quacking. Never shut up.
Do you still have the bills?
I still have my lunch money from third grade.
I know who you are, Inspector Lee.
Then you know I'm not walking away from this case.
Is this a payoff?
No. It's a sample. You guys ever heard of the Superbill?
It wasn't hard to spot the fakes until this past year. Then Tan got hold of one of a kind Swiss made hundred dollar plates  and started making superbills.
And Hu Li killed him for the plates.
Yes. They've printed and shipped one hundred million dollars, and there's only one way to spot a fake.
Put your arms around me.
Excuse me?
What's going on?
I need your help.
Last time you needed my help I ended up in the back of a truck.
I'm undercover. I had no choice. You have to trust me.
You move well.
Just trying to make it look real.
Look over there. That's the eye in the sky room.
Behind me is the soft count room. We're pretty sure the plates are back there.
Why don't you go get them?
If I'm wrong then my cover is blown.
The Secret Service almost busted Reign at his casino in Macao, but the place burned down before we could move in.
How do I know I can trust you?
Dip me!
I'm asking for real now  will you help the Secret Service?
No. But I'll help you.
Are you okay?
I'm fine.
I didn't know which side you were on.
Now you know.
Quite a night, Inspector. Ricky Tan was our only bait, and now he's gone. You finally got your revenge  at the expense of a U.S. Government investigation.
What "revenge" is he talking about?
I don't know if the FuCangLong paid you to get rid of Tan, or whether it was a pure vendetta killing  but you're off this case. I don't ever want to see you again, you got that?
Hey, you, Secret Service Man, what are you 
Stay out of it, Carter. You're going back to L.A.
Fine with me.
I warned you about playing that shit when I'm in the car.
That was my CD. Don't you ever touch a Chinese man's CD.
Did you see the way those girls drove off? I did you a favor.
Those girls drove off because of you.
All I did was invite them for a drink.
You invited them to get naked and sacrifice a small goat.
I said that? Which word was "goat?"
You owe me a copy of the Beach Boys Greatest Hits, Volume Two.
Don't be giving me attitude, Lee. I've been here three days and we haven't done shit. We haven't been to a club, haven't even talked to a girl. I'm on vacation, and I want some mushu.
Mushu? You're hungry?
Not Mushu. Mushu. I want to see some women. Now stop playing dumb and show me the shu!
Of course not. My Superindendent invited us to a club tonight. Big party.
Don't be messing with me, Lee. I will kick your ass. I'll hit you so hard you'll end up in the Ming Dynasty.
Carter, would I lie to you?
That's what I'm talking about. A real Hong Kong night club. You want an Altoid?
No.
You better take one. Your breath has been a little funky all day. Let me look at you.
Just relax and don't worry about a thing. I'll hook you up in there. You got condoms?
No.
Take this. It's a Magnum. You can fold it in half.
I'll meet you at the bar in ten minutes. They don't like tourists in here, so try to blend in.
Blend in? I'm two feet taller than everyone here. Where you going?
Bathroom.
Carter, get off that stage!
Are you kidding, they love me. I'm a star, Lee. A god to these people!
This is a gangster bar, we're here undercover.
I knew you were lying.
I'm sorry.
Damn it, why are you ruining my night? I'm just starting to have fun. Well fine then, go ahead, pull your badge and do your thing.
No, we're here for information, to find out where a man named Ricky Tan is. We must tread softly and keep our ears open.
Tread softly? Who taught you how to roost a bar?
Carter, you don't understand. These men are FuCangLong Triads. Part of the most deadly gang in China.
Man, are you crazy? You think that scares me? I'm from L.A. We invented gangs. We were having gang wars before anybody even thought about it. We get royalties from other gangs. Now gimme your badge and gun and I'll show you how it's done.
No. You are a civilian. In China, I am Michael Jackson, and you are Toto.
You mean Tito. We had Toto for dinner last night.
What'd I say?
You just said you're their worst nightmare  and to line their mothers up for a milking.
Shit. C'mon, get up here and help me out.
All I wanted was a little mushu.
Try to land on your feet.
You lied to me.
I'm sorry.
You're sorry. I got somebody's old chopsticks stuck in my ass, so don't tell me you're sorry. Just take me home.
No time. There was an explosion at the American Embassy today  two American translators were killed.
I'm telling you right now, I'm tired of this shit. There's two billion Chinese  let one of them be your partner.
This won't take long.
And that's how you use the LAPD choke hold. Now start practicing and don't make me come back here!
Carter...you ready to have some fun!?
Just follow my lead and act like a tourist.
I am a tourist.
Hello.
How you doin'?
My friend is on vacation, from America. I want to show him a good time.
What are you doing?
She said I could pick any girl I want.
Well, hurry up.
Hey! You don't break in front of a black man in a buffet line.
What's wrong?
Over there  that's Ricky Tan.
That's Ricky Tan? He's four feet tall. I'll go over with you right now, shake him down.
This is a very dangerous man.
I'm a dangerous man. You're not gonna ruin my massage because of some midget in a house coat.
I'm calling for back up!
Goddamn you got a small ass.
Don't look at my ass!
Where are you going?
Back to Heaven on Earth. I need my damn passport back. I'm going home.
Fine. Go home. Who needs you.
Why you mad at me? You needed backup, so I backed you up. I was about to take out Ricky Tan and those bodyguards.
Stop! I'm sick of your bullshit!
My bullshit? I'm not the one who goes to a karaoke bar filled with gangsters! I'm not the one who goes to massage parlors to bust crime lords!
It's my job!
You're pathetic, man. When's the last time you had some fun? When's the last time you took a night off, had a date?
I have plenty of dates.
Really? When's the last time you had some Mushu Let's hear it, Lee, when was it? Year of the rat?
You would never understand my life. You're not Chinese.
And you ain't black!
Carter?
Who died?
You.
Detective Yu? Never met him.
Not Yu. You!
Who?
Do you understand the words that are coming out of my mouth?
Nobody understands the words that are coming out of your mouth.
What, leave you alone so he can cap you?
I'm okay, you go.
Why the hell should you believe him? He had us beat up. Naked. That's nasty shit.
Remember I told you my father was a policeman? Ricky Tan was his partner for ten years.
What the hell is going on here?
What are you gonna do about it, grasshopper?
I'll bitch slap you into Bangkok.
Give me your best shot, you flat assed mama's boy.
Don't be talking about my mama. Or my ass!
I heard your mama pulls a rickshaw.
No. She's a school teacher.
You're not very good at this, are you?
Good at what?
Forget it.
Five years ago, my father was Chief Inspector working a big international smuggling case.
Ask me if I give a shit.
He found out his partner, Tan, had been working for the Triads all along. Before my father could prove it, he was killed in the line of duty.
How the hell did Tan get away with it?
All the evidence against him disappeared, the smuggling case was unsolved. Tan resigned and went over to the Triads openly.
This is about your Daddy's death? Hell, Lee, you know my father died on the job. You could have told me... This is about more than all that, isn't it? This is about your Daddy's last case, right?
No, no, that would be crazy 
You thought the "Customs Agents get blown up" and "smuggling" and "Ricky Tan" and you put it all together and came up with a five year old case. That's why you didn't tell me what we were doing...
I thought you'd think it was crazy.
IT IS CRAZY!
I know. I know. I am sorry.
So are you getting on the plane or not?!
What?
Come on, we still got time to order the Kosher meal. Always get the kosher meal, they bring it first.
I cannot go to LA...
It sounds impossible 
You said 
 but if somebody gave me the chance to square up my father's death, I'd go to hell to do it.
You want to figure out why they killed your Daddy, get on the plane.
Why LA?
I guess you're going to have to trust me on this one.
I should go back. Ricky Tan mentioned a boat in Hong Kong Harbor...
Lee, let me introduce you to the Carter Theory of Criminal Investigation: Follow the Rich White Man.
Follow the Rich White Man?
Almost, but you've got to say "Rich White Man" all run together like it's one word.
Follow the RichWhiteMan...
Not bad. Now every crime, somewhere, has a rich white man taking his cut. Every single one. Now in our case, we know the rich white man is Steven Reign.
Who?
Big hotel billionaire. He was on Ricky Tan's boat ordering Hu Li around just before Ricky got smoked.
How do you know he's our man?
Because when the shooting started he was way too cool. See most white people, when there's shooting, they either hide in a toilet or start screaming high pitched like "Aaaahhh!!! Aaaahh!!!!
You sound like that all the time.
Black people keep their cool when the shit goes down.
Maybe. But not like Asians. We never panic.
Yeah, what about when Godzilla was coming? You people were screaming your asses off.
Just tell me where I can find this Steven Reign.
The same place you find all RichWhiteMen. Gefilte Fish. Lox and bagel. I love this stuff. Here, try it with a smear.
Yeah, that's definitely the woman from Ricky Tan's boat, and she's staying in his suite at his hotel, I told you this would work out. They still just talking?
He just left. Kissed her on the cheek.
He'll be back soon.
How do you know?
Look at her. Now, wake me in an hour, I'll take over.
Carter, there's something I have to tell you. You were right about what you said in Hong Kong. All I do is work. Never take a day off. It's all I have right now.
Hey, I didn't mean to call you pathetic.
The truth is, I haven't had any mushu in six months.
You pull a muscle or something?
My fiancee left me over the summer  a month before our wedding.
I'm sorry, Lee. Why did she leave you?
It's a long story.
Let me guess, she couldn't handle the cop thing  never knowing if you were dead or alive. I've seen it a million times.
No. It was my singing.
Excuse me?
She hated my voice. Said it drove her crazy. I sang to her all the time  in bed  in the shower  I thought she liked it. She finally told me it was driving her crazy.
She's just standing around  not doing much.
Just don't fall asleep. Sooner or later something's gonna happen.
I'll try to stay awake. It's so boring.
Slow down, baby.
What did you say?
Nothing. I said nothing.
Is it hot in here?
Hot? I'm freezing my ass off.
I'm gonna go in the hall and get a bucket of ice. You want some ice?
What's going on?
She's getting undressed.
Gimme the binoculars.
No. It's not right.
Gimme the binoculars or I will shoot you.
What's she doing?
Oh, sweet glory hallelujah...
I don't want to hear this.
Skirt just came off. She's in black bra and panties  Victoria Secret Spring Catalogue, page 27  wait a sec  there's a tattoo on her left thigh... it looks like Snoopy.
Snoopy? I love Snoopy.
She just took her hair down. Now she's going for the bra  the clasp is in front  she's using both hands. You better get that ice.
Wait a sec  what the hell is that between her legs?
What?
She's reaching into her panties  something is strapped to her leg. Oh, God...please don't let it be a dick.
What is it?
No, I don't believe this shit  it's a microphone. Lee, she's wired...
I don't understand?
She's walking back towards the door.
Pick it up!
It's your turn!
I don't need a turn!
Wait! There's people down there!
There's people up here!
Get it out of here!
Take it!
I wouldn't do that!!!
It's a bomb.
Let me see it again?
We can help you. I'm a detective in Hong Kong.
Secret Service Agent Carter. This is my calling, Lee. Give me six months and I'll be in Washington protecting a white guy.
We both know you would never take a bullet for someone else.
They don't know that. What are they gonna do, try and shoot the President during the interview? I'll bet Isabella can pull some strings. You saw the way she was staring at me.
She never even looked at you.
You're just jealous 'cos the girl picked me. I'm tall, dark and handsome, you're third world ugly.
I am not third world ugly. Women like me, they think I'm cute. Like Snoopy.
Snoopy is about six inches taller than you. I'm sorry, Lee, you never had a chance.
Are you okay?
What's the first thing I told you  never trust nobody. How could you fall for that shit? I knew she was dirty.
She saved our lives.
For how long? Face it, Lee, she's playing both sides.
Look, man I'm sorry. I know you got a thing for her.
Shhh, my head hurts.
I'm about to be killed and you "Shhh" me! This wasn't my case, Lee. Ricky Tan didn't kill my father, the FuCang Long are not in South Central. I didn't have to help you.
Why did you help me?
It doesn't matter.
I'm not used to having a partner.
We are not partners. Between your daddy, my daddy, and the beating I just took, as far as I can tell all partners get you is dead.
Well we're not friends.
You got that right. And we ain't brothers. Maybe we should just end this right here.
Fine with me.
I won't talk to you, you don't talk to me. We'll die in peace.
See you in the next world.
I don't believe in reincarnation. So I won't see you in the next world.
Fine.
I believe in heaven. You people believe in heaven?
Yes. We have heaven.
Is it the same heaven, or is it a Chinese heaven?
What's a Chinese heaven?
I thought it might be like those five foot and under basketball leagues. They don't let everybody in.
I think we should stop talking.
Fine by me.
You thinking about that girl that dumped you?
No.
If she was the right girl, you'd be thinking about her.
Mind your own business.
How was the sex?
There was no sex. She was very traditional. We were waiting until we were married.
You're kidding. No sex? Nothing? No mushu?
No mushu.
What about a little king pao chicken?
No kung pao chicken. Never.
Steamed dumplings?
Once in a while, steamed dumplings. But only when she was drunk.
That's rough, man. If I don't get steamed dumplings once a week, I go crazy.
Tell me the truth, Carter. Do you think I have a good voice?
Are you serious?
Forget it. It doesn't matter.
As long as you're asking...I think you have a pretty good voice.
I knew it. What does she know. You want me to sing something?
That depends. How do the FuCangLong usually kill their victims?
They'll probably torture us first, shock our privates, then put two bullets in our eyes and one in the back of the head.
Go ahead. Sing your ass off.
Very nice.
It's focus. Every opponent has a weak spot. You ignore everything around you, and put all your energy into one perfect strike.
I'll remember that next time I'm fighting a box.
Hello, Benjamin.
Who's Benjamin?
Benjamin Franklin, he discovered electricity.
A Chinese man discovered electricity.
No Chinese man discovered electricity.
Yes he did. He also invented the bicycle.
Now that I believe.
We're slowing down. This must be it.
End of the line.
You've been a good friend, James Carter.
Oh no you don't. Don't you be getting corny on me, Lee. I'll kick your ass from here to Compton.
You could never kick my ass. You mama's boy.
Don't you talk about my mama. That's more like it.
Vegas...
Lee. I just got an idea how someone could launder a hundred million dollars in cash.
Red Dragon.
That was the name of Ricky Tan's boat.
Let's go.
Wait a second. We can't go in like this. Look at this place, we gotta look fly. We gotta Mac out.
What is Mac out?
Follow me my Asian brother.
Couple? No, you got it wrong, there's no couple here. Just two single police officers working a very dangerous case.
Yes. We have lots of big men chasing us.
That looks exactly like my Uncle Darrell.
Buddha is the symbol of luck and good fortune.
Buddha is the symbol for fat and lazy. The man has the biggest tits in Asia.
Carter...here comes the rich white man.
Wait here. I'll handle this.
Lee, what the hell are you doing?
Dancing?
Dancing? I'm out here trying to strong arm Steven Reign, putting my life on the line, and you're up here dancing with some bimbo. Did she have a friend?
It was Isabella. She says the plates are in the soft count room.
Isabella? Are you crazy, man? She almost got us killed. She's setting you up again!
No. I'm going to find out.
Wait a second. There's guards all over the place. You'll need a distraction.
I'll go to the craps table, make a big scene. When security comes over, you make your move.
Try to keep them busy for five minutes.
I'll give it my best shot.
Lee!
MMMMMM!!!!
Why didn't you tell me you had a bomb in your mouth?
I did!
No you didn't!
Yes I did. I said MMMMMM!
Ricky Tan is alive.
What?!?!
We have to get to the Penthouse.
You go after Ricky. I got this.
Carter...
Just GO!
Lee, wait a second. It's not worth it, man. He's making you do this.
It's worth it to me.
We made it, man.
No problem.
I saw that. She kissed you, didn't she? You played it cool, though. Walking away, never looking back.
She's going home to New York. I need some ice.
That your gate down there?
Yes.
I'm this way. I guess this is goodbye.
I guess so. Thank you, Carter.
You take care of yourself, Lee.
Your father's badge? No way, man. I can't take this.
It's okay. I can finally let it go.
What is this?
About fifty grand. I won it at the tables.
No, Carter. I can't take this.
It's okay, I got lots more.
They owe us, man. That's the least they can do.
This money is evidence.
Come on, Lee. Stop being a cop for five minutes and live it up. There must be something you want.
I always wanted to go to Madison Square Garden. See the Knicks play.
New York City?
First class.
The Plaza Hotel?
A little Mushu.
Some KungPao?
I could use a little vacation.
Amen to that, brother.
Wait a second. You're Steven Reign? You're big time. You own all them big hotels. What are you doing in Hong Kong?
I'm just in town for the weekend, taking in the sights.
Stevie, how's it going my man? Somebody get a picture, we can use it for a mug shot.
Detective Carter, you always seem to show up where you don't belong.
Lemme ask you something, Steven. And I want the truth. Is there any way I can date your daughter? Just dinner and a movie, maybe go listen to some jazz...
Vegas has been my town for 30 years. I crawled out from under the first rock. Do you really think you can intimidate me here?
You're right, you're a smart guy. Most counterfeiters only get ten cents on the dollar. But this is an even swap. Pure genius.
You play games with me, Detective, and you'll lose every time. Don't forget. The odds are always in favor of the house.
Oh, you American?
That's right.
You bring American money?
Never leave home without it. Lee, this one's on me. You save your money.
You get massage from Chinese girl before?
No. It's my first time.
You pick any girl for you and your friend.
Any girl? Okay. Let's start with that one.
Oh yes, she's very nice.
She is nice. But I am very tense. I'm gonna need a lot of massages. I'll take that one, too. How you doin', baby? And...that one in pink. She can do my feet.
I'm busy at the moment.
I said get on your feet!
I know you, Detective Carter, right? You're Lee's American friend. Enjoying your visit?
I'm Lee's new muscle, his right arm  and don't let the robe fool you. This is the only color they had left. Now get up!
Let's go. I've got girls and chicken and hot oil waiting for me.
I don't think so...
I'd like to pay you for that laptop.
It's no problem. But I must excuse myself, inspector.
That's Chief Inspector, he got promoted.
Could you have your partner wait for us outside?
I ain't his partner, I'm a tourist. I got proof. See, I got a minibar key.
Would you like me to tell you how your father died?
Lee, you okay?
Do you have it in you, Lee? Or are you gonna spend the rest of your life hiding like your father?
C'mon, Lee. He's going to jail. You won, now just put the gun down.
How you doing, baby? My name is Prince Mubutu from Nigeria.
Isabella Molina, from San Juan. That seat is taken.
San Juan! You must know my good friend Pedro Martinez Hernandez Hector Elizondo.
I don't think so.
I'm sorry, you looked like you traveled in the best circles. But hey, I understand. Make yourself at home, Isabella. Champagne, caviar, whatever you want. My ship is your ship.
This is your ship?
That's right. I'm the owner, the Captain  you can call me El Capitan.
El Capitan?
I don't want to play games with you, Isabella. I like you. I can see myself with you  in one of those bathrooms over there in about five minutes.
Well, I'm very tempted. It's such a beautiful yacht. What's it called?
Called? What's my ship called? Well...it's called the S.S. Minnow Johnson.
The S.S. Minow Johnson. Funny, the name on the back was "Red Dragon."
Red Dragon? You sure about that?
I'm sure, because this is my friend's yacht. And it's his party.
Your friend's ship? Oh, man. I must've walked onto the wrong yacht. I knew there was a reason my keys didn't work.
You see, no bomb. Now stay away before I throw you both in jail for obstruction.
Throw us in jail? I'm about to bust you right now.
I'm an undercover agent for the United States Secret Service.
How do we know you're not lying? Let me see your badge.
Yeah, that's right.
We need to get out of sight. Come down to my suite.
Look, I've been working this case for months now...
So what's your story?
They think I'm a crooked customs agent.
It's a myth. Some kind of counterfeit.
It's much more than a counterfeit. 14 out of 15 world banks can't tell the difference. The paper is Crane linen blend  and the bills are printed on U.S. Intaglio presses.
How're they getting into the U.S. Mint to use the presses?
In 1959, the United States was very friendly with the Shah of Iran. We wanted his oil, so for the Shah's birthday, the government gave him a gift  a U.S. Treasury Intaglio press. The only one to ever leave the country. Five years ago Ricky Tan bought that press on the black market.
They use an optical transfer ink from India that burns red  the real ink burns black.
What the hell are they going to do with a hundred million dollars in funny money?
The real question is, where are the plates? If we can find the plates, we can stop the whole operation.
Hear you got your ass kicked in Hong Kong, James.
What?? Where'd you hear that?
I got my sources.
And I got mine, meaning you. Nice how that works out. I'm serious this time, I'm closing this place down.
James, you see my kids back there? You know how much I'm paying for private school? How can you come in here with this attitude, you being little Chang's godfather?
Little Chang is gonna have to go visit his daddy in jail if you don't cooperate.
Jail!? James, you better back off. Badge or no badge, I'll kick your ass.
I'd like to see you try.
Look, I need some info and I don't have time to play around.
Is this about the funny money?
How'd you know?
You've been asking loud questions in all the wrong places all morning. How come you always save me for last, James? When are you gonna learn. Shit don't happen I don't know about.
So tell me what you know.
I know Teddy Wu is cranking out a pretty good double sawbuck  but you knew that too, didn't you?
Yeah. We already been there. This is big, Kenny. Benjamins. Secret Service calls 'em superbills. Banks can't even tell the difference.
What?
One of my regulars lost fifty thousand dollars at the table here last week. I was about to send my boys down to tune his ass up, when the guy comes in and pays off the whole thing. Including the vig  brand new sequential hundred dollar bills. I knew something was wrong. Cause this guy's got a regular job, no way he comes up with fifty grand in cash. But I tested the bills, infrared. The whole thing. And they checked out. 100%.
I knew it. The guy's name is Zing. He works at the kitchen at Reign Plaza.
All right, Kenny. Thanks. You're off the hook. For now.
Invitation, please.
I'm with the band. I'm the lead singer.
The band has been playing over an hour.
I got held up at a wedding in Tai Koo. Ricky here yet, I need to get his requests.
Wait.
Last party all he wanted was Sting  not one person danced. Tonight I'm doing Superfreak, I don't care what he says. Where is he?
Mr. Tan is not to be disturbed by the help.
What the hell is that?
Those are five hundred dollar chips.
Did you give me fivehundred dollar chips because I'm black?
No, I just assumed...
You assumed a brother coming in here can only afford fivehundred dollars a roll, is that right? Are you a racist?
No, sir.
Everyone else at the table has thousand dollar chips, but the black man gets the nickel, is that it? Did my people survive twohundred years of slavery so you could send us back to the cotton fields with fivehundred dollar chips? Do I look like Chicken George to you?
Winner six!
How much is that?
Twohundred thousand!
Twohundred thousand dollars? Who wants a hundred dollars?
Winner! Four, winner!
I'm up a hundred and fiftygrand. That's a Ferrari. Do they sell those here in the gift shop? Somebody cash me out!
Is it true, Carter? Are you in Hong Kong right now?
Hong Kong? I'm not in Hong Kong. I'm in Hollywood  right at Sunset and Vine, two minutes from the station. How about I pick you up right now and take you to dinner?
It's ninethirty in the morning.
Did I say dinner? I meant diner. Biscuits and gravy, you love that shit.
Do you know what happened yesterday, Carter? I was officially nominated for the Commissioner's post for the LAPD. There was a dinner last night, two hundred LAPD officers were there.
Two hundred cops? Was Mario Sanchez there? He owes me money.
I've waited my whole life for this job, but I don't have a shot in hell of getting it. Do you know why?
Is it because of the hookers, sir? You tell them there's no crime in being lonely.
No, Carter. The reason I'm screwed is because the entire department is about to find out the stolen credit cards we impounded were used to buy two first class upgrades to Hong Kong. And what the hell is Heaven on Earth?
Sir, I'm working on a big case over here  and by the time I get back they're gonna make you Governor. Captain, you there? Hello? Shit!
You want to hear the good news first, or the bad news?
Give me the bad news.
We retrieved a few things from the trunk, including a steamer trunk, or the remnants of a trunk, the brass clips and so forth.
Anything in it?
Money.
But nowhere near three million dollars worth. I would say maybe twenty thousand.
There was more than that.
Not in the trunk.
That doesn't tell us much. Did you run a check on the gas like I told you?
Yeah, we did. It was unleaded, high octane.
So...what's the good news?
That fire was set. Deliberately. And probably not by anyone found at the scene.
So someone did get away.
I don't know how else you'd explain it. The coroner's estimated time of death for everyone there was long before this fire started, unless of course Denning started it, and that doesn't make much sense.
No, it doesn't. Neither does his blank tape. Any news on that?
We're doing a check on the manufacturers' serial number, see if there were other defective tapes in the bunch. What's your take on these local boys? Are they providing any answers?
He didn't make it into work, and he's not home.
I knew it, I knew it all along  shit!
You think he skipped town?
We're going to find out.
Yeah.
What do you think? Heart attack?
This isn't right...
I'm not getting an answer.
Not getting an answer? For Christ's sake! Call 911! Let's get it locked down here!
Hi ma.
Hi.
I didn't know you were coming.
I was in the neighborhood.
Is that the mail?
Yeah.
How's work?
Well, same ol' same ol'.
People have been asking me about that story in the paper. I told them you were the first person on the scene. They were asking me for all the details.
It was pretty gory ma, let me tell you. But you have to turn all that off, and do your job, just like pop used to say.
Did they ever find out who they were?
Nope. If you're a criminal you don't carry ID, and if you do you're a damn fool.
I tell you this world just keeps getting more and more violent.
At least around here it does.
Are you hungry?
Yeah sure I'll grab something before I go... Hey  I've got a surprise.
You do?
There was this raffle going on at the station, some charity or church was running it, I forget, so I figure what the hell put in my five bucks...
And what happened?
Well basically I forgot about it, you know, you never win these things, but this time, well...
Well what do you know! An air conditioner.
And not just any air conditioner. This baby sells for over six hundred dollars retail.
That's great Earl!
Yep, fifteen thousand BTU's, enough to cool off this whole place.
This whole place?
Yeah. Figured you could have it.
Don't you want it?
Ah, hell I'll get one soon enough. Besides, I want you to have it.
Well I don't know 
You've done without it long enough, ma.
Thank you honey. are you sure you don't want it?
Absolutely positively.
Hey we're all friends, right? Friends don't squeal on friends, that's not what Jesse Segundo is all about.
Then what the hell are you all about?
I'll settle for a third of that.
And if we refuse? Your tampering with evidence isn't exactly a misdemeanor, did you ever consider that?
True, but neither is attempted murder. In fact I'd say that's considerably worse, wouldn't you, Earl?
We're out of here.
Right behind you.
Meet me at the Tumbleweed Diner.
What?
Just do it! Meet me there, now.
I'm not asking.
Well you're not getting, either.
Listen 
What do you mean? You gambled it?
I was on a roll! Im a little overextended now.
Oh Jesus Christ...
So I want the money and I want it now.
Well you can't have it.
You want to see how more unglued I can get? Try me.
You're never getting that much.
I think I am.
What the hell are you doing, you crazy some bitches 
We're gonna talk.
I don't suppose you'll tell us where the tape is.
Well it's not here  you're wasting your time and you're pissing me off!
Don't hurt me.
We gotta, Jesse. It's tough, but you didn't leave us any choice. We gotta know where the tapes are.
Easy to purchase, hard to detect. Too much potassium can kill a man. Just have to...pick a discreet spot.
Stop! Stop! I don't need the money. You can have it all.
What's this?
I don't know...
Hey where's the hot pad?
What?
Where's the hot back  the therapeutic pad thing?
I can't hear a word you're saying!
Forget it.
It was going to be a surprise!
A surprise huh? Well I don't like any surprises, especially if I'm forking over the loot for them!
What are you saying?
I'm saying you're about as romantic as a bag of sand.
Watch that. Watch that tone.
Nothing. Nothing's the matter. SALLY Aren't you going to tell how your day went?
Not much to tell. Nothing really happened.
That hasn't stopped you before.
Suppose I'm not exciting enough for you.
I didn't say that. You did.
Well you might as well say it. Mister Small Time...
Just trying to be civil Dwayne.
Don't you want to hear about my day?
Yeah let's hear about your day.
Well I got the tires rotated, I went shopping, and I made dinner.
Whatever...
Look I worked all day, I'm tired as hell and I want to sit and eat in peace! Is that asking too much?
No, Dwayne, you go ahead and relax, have a six pack and fall asleep in front of the TV, and come upstairs and pass out. And do it all over again tomorrow!
Save me the sermon. I've heard it all before, it's boring.
It certainly is...
You shut your mouth you son of a bitch!
Dwayne put the gun down 
Shut up!!! Slut!!!
You'd do this to me?!
Dwayne 
You'd do this to me!
Dwayne please calm down!
Calm down 
Just goes to show you.
I mean at least pick a more discreet place, the scalp, under the armpit, under the tongue, someplace where the trained eye wont immediately look.
Damn its hot in here...
He probably figured she was on her way out anyhow, no drugs in her system, no foul play.
Very clumsy, very clumsy. Id have found it in a minute.
All right youre the super sleuth, what do you want, a medal?
No. But what I would like is the forty dollars you owe me, and Im a busy man.
Dammit youre persistent. I dont want to listen to this anymore. No more bets with you.
Aw, now thats gonna take time to clear!
Take it or leave it.
Do you even have a girlfriend, Jesse?
Sort of.
She's not his type.
Yeah. That's all I need, to become one of your inlaws.
Jesse?
Yeah whaddya want?.
I'm at a payphone in Vegas. What's up?
Vegas! Can you hightail it back here by three o'clock?
Why?
Well, we got the DEA coming down here again, I don't know, sounds to me like they got some more questions they want to ask us.
About what?
Well they really didn't go into any details on the phone, but they did ask for you, and I figure we should try to help them out as best we can.
Uh, sure. I hear you.
So be here at three.
I'll do my best...that doesn't give me much time.
I have complete faith in you. But don't you go speeding.
Yeah...see you at three.
Nice of you to join us. I did say three o'clock, didn't I?
Well I'm here now.
Something wrong, Jesse?
No. Something wrong with you Dwayne?
You walked in here looking like you just ate a shit sandwich.
Well, I just got a lot of things on my mind is all.
Hello.
Hi.
Anything I can help you with?
Well I just uh, you know...
I have an anniversary coming up, thought I'd buy her something special.
Anything...specific?
Well I don't know...
Sixty five... Jeez Louise!
We are having a sale on some items over here 
Yeah, she is. She comes up to about here on me.
Hmmm...
I don't suppose you've seen her.
Have I seen her?
Shopping here?
No, I can't say that I have.
Oh.
Let's see...do you know her cup size?
Uh...C?
C?
Yeah I'd say C...C.
Do you know...34 C? 32 C?
No I don't. You sure you havent seen her?
Well...I should have done a little homework, getting all the sizes, and what not.
Sure.
I'm just not very good...with all of this stuff.
Oh, that's ok, a lot of men feel uncomfortable when they come in here.
A lot of men come in here?
Oh yeah. Between here and Vegas we get a lot of customers. All types. Even had an officer, just like you.
Mr. Curtis called us this afternoon. The bills arrived at this branch from a cash drop. Came through a store called After Midnight. There's only four employees, none of them can tell us who passed them.
Is this marked money, or what?
Some of it. Denning only handled a small portion of the total, but it looks like this was one of his bills.
So there was money there! Who the hell's money is it?!
Yeah.
What the hell is that, some kind of porno store or something?
Not exactly. It's some lingerie store on the strip.
Lingerie...
Yeah, racy stuff, you know the kind, right?
Sure... DISSOLVE TO EXT HOGAN HOUSE  NIGHT
I guess we can get started.
I wanted to ask you some questions about last night.
He kept a recording of all such transactions in order to keep track of who's who, what was said, what's happening. I contacted your local coroner, and he found it taped to his back.
That's news to me. So it's over at Jesse's office?
Yeah. I told him I'd be there before five.
Excellent. I'll go down with you.
Well nothing audible to us. Maybe the lab can pick something up.
Damn! MARTIN I'm sorry to have dragged you all the way down here for that. I thought maybe it would help. Booth lets out an inaudible deep breath  Earl immediately plays up to Martin, clearly relieved 
Well we'd like to help you in any way we can. We're all in this together, as law enforcement officers.
We appreciate that.
Uh, no...
Don't you think I would have told you that!
Maybe. Maybe not.
What are you getting at?
Well, unfortunately Denning's not here to tell us, but I would say someone got their hands on that tape and switched it.
Why would someone do that?
Because they don't want anyone to hear what's on it, obviously.
Oh that was Agent Wallace. We're going to check into something.
Maybe I should come along.
Don't you have to be here?
Hell no. besides I'm just a radio call away if something happens. I feel I should keep abreast of what happens, seeing it's my jurisdiction and all.
Mmhmm...
We don't know. Whoever got this payload together has one hell of a laundering system.
Have you known this all along?
Well you can understand why we didn't say anything. If word got out that we had a track on the money it would only work against us.
Well yes I understand that, we don't want them hightailing it out of here.
Sheriff Hogan 
Dwayne.
Dwayne... It is imperative that we keep this confidential. Now we know someone's out there. Very close. It may even be the son of a bitch that killed my partner.
Fine. The information doesn't leave this room.
OK...this is good. Our first solid lead.
Did you say After Midnight?
All right, deputies, take care, don't let your meat loaf.
Don't worry the real men are in charge now.
Speaking of which that reminds me I have to bring something home or eat Sally's meatloaf again, and I don't think I could stand that.
Why?
Cause we got footprints leading into that brush, I want to see where it leads... Jesus, seven dead. I'll tell you I've never seen carnage like this in all my seventeen years of sheriffing these parts. I don't like it. Not in my jurisdiction.
What makes you say that?
We had hounds down at the scene, the footprint trail was a bust. And there were no other tire tracks in the vicinity.
I don't know.
This just might be our ticket!
What do you think about all this?
Hell, I don't know. If I had some input I'd offer it up.
Test the product?
Yeah.
Sounds like you don't trust me.
Business is business. Now where the hell is it? I wanna get out of here. That's the plan, we're just flunkies, you know what I'm saying?
You didn't answer my question. Are you saying my word is of no value to you?
You said that, I didn't.
I have a better plan. You want to hear it?
What?
I have a better plan.
And what's that?
How about you give us what you have and leave.
What?
Am I speaking English here? Howaboutyougiveuswhatyou haveandleave?
What is this? Don't be stupid man...
First you question my integrity, then you call me stupid... ...that hurts, son.
Yeah, I've seen him.
What did he buy?
I don't remember. We get a lot of people in here.
Could it have been this?
Be more specific. A month, a week...
A week ago, at most.
Thanks for your time.
I have to go to the bank before it closes.
What for?
I gotta take some money out, that's what for.
There's an ATM on Speedwell Avenue.
Yeah but I need to take out four hundred dollars and the ATM will only give me three.
Well, not that I wouldn't sugar bun but Earl's in a bind. They're going to take his car.
He's irresponsible.
Ah hell, he'd do the same for me.
Has he?
No. But he would, probably.
Get a room in a nice hotel for a few hours...
I might have to look into that...
Hi.
Hi.
Heard you had quite a night.
Yeah.
It was all over the local news. Dwayne was there, acting all official.
I know.
What's wrong?
Nothing.
Nothing's wrong.
Oh. You coming by tonight?
OK.
Are you sure you're OK?
Yeah I'm fine.
I'm just tired is all. I'll see you tonight OK baby?
OK. I love you.
I love you too.
Sally? I was beginning to think he wasn't gonna leave.
I'm in here.
You got me something? What's the occasion?
You deserve it is the occasion.
What happened to your cheek? SALLY Oh I...nothing...
Nothing happened?
Dwayne got a little tipsy is all. He doesn't handle pressure well. It's over.
Like hell it's over. You told me he wasn't doing this anymore.
He's not, he's...
That son of a bitch.
Booth. Don't. It's nothing. It's not worth it. Remember what happened the last time?
Let's not get into this again. I know him. If you said something, he'd take it out on me.
And I'd take it out on him.
And I'd end up a widow in two ways. Let's forget it. I'll just be a little more careful next time.
There isn't gonna be a next time. We're gonna get out of here.
You're worth every last penny.
Well, I can't let you down now, can I?
I told him I bought the lingerie, as a surprise. I don't think he suspects anything, but now you know, if he mentions it.
How the hell did he find it?
He started digging through my closet, something he never does.
Great...
It's OK, Booth, it's no big deal.
Let's hope so. SALLY If he asks me again, I'm gonna tell him I returned it all.
Dammit, I'm so sick of this.
I know.
Every night I think about you sleeping with him, him slobbering all over you.
He doesn't slobber, he just snores. And I told you we haven't...done anything in over a year.
It doesn't matter...he's next to you. You know, I always say to myself, you should have left him years ago. Why didn't you?
I used to think he was something, once... I was eighteen, I didn't know any better, and he had something steady to offer.
Let's just get out of here, get out of this  place. We'll drop out, get a house have some kids, get a satellite dish...
I hate it when you talk like this. Go on.
We'd... I don't know...go to California, New York, maybe a house on a Swiss mountainside...
It'd have to be Switzerland to make sure Dwayne never finds us.
So do I.
I love you Sally.
I love you.
A satellite dish?
Well I was just throwing out ideas...
How are we going to do all this?
I'm going to quit. That's what has to happen first. Then we're going to tell him.
I don't know, Booth.
I'll be there for you. He won't try anything while I'm there. I promise. I'll protect you.
When do you expect this inheritance stuff to be straightened out?
Shouldn't be long. A couple of weeks maybe.
Can you rely on how much they said you'd get?
It'll be more than enough. We can get out of here...
Why does that bother you?
I'm not sure why. It's just, I've never been anywhere else...
Sally there's a whole world out there. We can have a new home. A real home, not some tinplated dump. What are you giving up?
I don't know. My friends...
We'll meet new people. You might have friends out there you never met.
Yeah, I guess you're right. It's just...all so sudden...
Yeah, it is...
Do you wanna tell me what that was all about?
Yeah. I want to tell you everything.
Things just got a little screwed up, that's all.
I don't believe it.
I swear to you, it's true...
Sally, do you love me?
You know I do.
How are ya?
Hello.
Thank you. Now, do you remember seeing any vehicles traveling near the site, on your way to or from?
No. Why?
Because someone may have gotten away.
Could it have been in the Mercedes?
Maybe. That's where it was during Denning's last report.
Normally we would have tracked him with a wiretap, but it was standard for him to occasionally drop out when working with these guys. The last we heard from him was two days ago.
You mean that guy was an agent?
Yes. Wife and a kid. Don't blame yourself, Deputy. You did all you could. You have our deepest gratitude...and my personal thanks.
Well, we have one lead and that's what I'm looking into next.
What's that?
Denning was wearing a bug.
Yeah? So?
It's odd. I don't know how Denning had the time, or the ability to buy something local, based on his situation.
You gentlemen look like you're about to toss your collective cookies.
Why don't you get to the point.
My point, well...
Listen Earl. I covered for you. For both of you. I put my ass on the line to save yours, so don't pull a hostile tone with me!
What's your offer, Jesse?
My offer? Well I'd say it's a fair one, like I said we're friends. All I want is my share, which I guess is...
Besides, I'm not stupid, Earl. The tape was a basic Maxell D80. You can buy 'em at any store. There's no way they can pin anything on me.
All right, Jesse, we'll play it your way, under one condition.
I'm all ears.
We're going to wait. All of us, until everything dies down.
Well, I don't know...
That's the deal. If you don't like it, forget it, no one wins.
Ok...I'll wait. For now. But I'm going to need a little advance, to oil the wheels, so to speak.
How much?
I understand your logic, Booth, but I don't think...two thousand's going to raise any eyebrows, do you?
Two thousand...
By Friday.
There's going to have to be a change in our arrangement.
What are you proposing?
I want my share. All of it.
I don't like getting grilled by that DEA bitch, I don't like taking that kind of heat!
None of us like it!
Well I don't know what's going to happen next  she's pressing this, another interrogation, another problem.
Just take it in stride.
I'm not gonna take  I'm not gonna take it in stride. I had a good run turn to shit on me like that  cleaned me out.
I was beginning to think you weren't going to show. That can't be all of it.
No. It's not.
You don't expect us to believe that do you?
You better believe it if you know what's good for you!
Come on, Booth. Don't let him do this!!!
Don't have much choice, Jesse. You saw to that!
You're only screwing yourselves over! Helllllp! HELLLLLP! SOMEBODY!!!
Shut up, Jesse.
HELLLLLP!!!!
Whoa, Earl!
OKAY! IT'S UNDER MY DESK!! TAPED TO THE BOTTOM SIDE!!!
What are you doing, Earl?
Ready to roll, partner?
Sure thing, and 
Don't spend it all in one place.
I knew you'd come through. Jesse observes the transaction Booth and Earl start to leave.
How old is Otis anyhow, thirty?
The horniest dog in Nevada.
Thanks for the loan, man. I'll have it in a few days, I promise.
Well I hope so. That pretty much cleaned me out.
I would have asked my sister, but its better to leave family out, always leads to trouble.
I hear you.
Yeah...I remember my brotherinlaw Gary, the wheel watcher. He finally got on the show and won seven thousand dollars! Plus some leather furniture. Do you think I saw any of that? His excuse was the government got it all.
Seven thousand...
He would have won more but he blew it at the end. Didn't know what Cash and Carry was.
Cash and what?
Cash and Carry, you know, FDR, World War two...
Never heard of it.
Oh, you would have done great.
I probably would have. I guess the clues damn near before everyone.
That's what everyone thinks. But according to him, when it's the real thing, it's quite an intimidatin' environment in which to concentrate.
What the hell...
They're out of towners... Arizona plates...
Ten thousand right here.
There must be over a million dollars in here.
Shit, more than that.
What are we going to do?
What do you mean what are we going to do?
I mean  Earl grabs Booth's arm 
Call it in I guess. Why?
Why? Are you kidding me?
No. We can't.
Look around you partner! You said yourself you never saw anything like it.
We don't know whose money it is! They might have robbed a bank, who knows?
Robbed a bank, c'mon! Don't you think we would have heard if one, two  shit I don't know how many were at large! Don't you think there would be a bulletin? This is a big ass drug deal!
We don't know that.
Come on Booth! Look at these scumbags around us. Who's going to know what happened! Let's take it and get out of here!
Well someone's gonna find them.
Hell, it won't be us!
It won't work.
Why?
I told Trudy we were coming down this way, that's why!
We'll figure something out.
We would never have to worry about money  ever again, Jesus!
Suppose someone knows about the money? They're bound to ask questions.
Who's going to question us? Dwayne? Jesse?
It's going to go bigger than that. Could you stare someone straight in the face and lie about it?
I'll worry about that when it happens and if it happens, and it's not gonna happen!
What makes you so sure?
Because...I know.
It's no accident we stumbled on this money. It's an answer to a prayer! Every night and every day I've prayed that God would just  help me out a little, give me a little push. Tonight my prayer came true.
Oh so God's like Western Union and he just dropped us a couple million bucks?
That's right!
At the expense of six people.
They killed themselves. Besides, they were breaking the law. What they were doing was wrong! Whatsamatter Booth, don't you believe in miracles?
All right hold on! Lemme think... Shit, did you touch the car?
Maybe. Who cares?
I do. It's little shit like that sends people to jail! We have to cover all the bases if we're going to pull this!
All right we will.
We'll torch the bases, how's that?
Torch it?!
We'll leave a few packets in the trunk, and stash the rest somewhere else. Car went up in the gunfight.
I don't know.
I've got one condition.
What's that?
We're going to be patient. If we start flashing money around, buying fancy cars and fancy clothes, people are going to ask questions.
Well, we won't do any of that shit!
Shhh!
What are you gonna do?
Well, I don't know. I'm putting it out of my mind and you should too 
I don't know! Son of a bitch! Who the hell are you?
He saw everything!
How long you been lying there playing possum with us, huh? Answer me!
He'll tell them everything to save his ass. That's how they all work it!
I'm not letting some gangbanger send me to jail. We can't risk it.
What are you thinking?
I don't know...
You're thinking about killing him. I can't do that. No way. I've never killed a man. Never even shot at one...
Well neither have I, but it's us or him. If he talks, or writes a note, or whatever, he's gonna turn us in. Besides, he's a low life scumbag. His kind is hardly even human anyway.
I...I can't do that.
Okay then. I'll do it.
That's not what I mean.
Listen. Do you want to go to jail? Taking evidence, tampering with a crime scene. You know what they'd do.
I tell you it was a miracle the way things turned out 
I don't want to hear about miracles and God and all that! We tried to murder someone to cover our asses!
Well we didn't kill him, he died on his own.
Look. Dwayne was right. This is going to be a big story. So big in fact that I don't want to even have this money around.
Fair enough, I'll take it to my place.
Forget it. We're going to bury it, and we're not going to even think about it until everything dies down. And no one, I mean no one hears a word about it. Understand?
We're dead. We're dead, We are dead... What are we going to do?!
I don't know...
This isn't a joke. What are we going to do!
I don't know you want me to put on my cape and fly there?! We're going to play it cool... besides there might be nothing on that tape anyway...
That guy was a Federal agent. An officer of the law, just like us.
Well, we didn't know that at the time.
We assaulted a Federal agent. We killed him.
No we didn't. He died on his own.
Oh, right, with a little help from his pals Booth and Earl. I'm sure that's gonna fly real far when they hear that tape...
We gotta turn ourselves in, before they hear the tape.
Are you nuts? They'll fry us for sure. There's no way we're doin' that, you understand? No way.
It's the right thing to do.
It's the stupid thing to do, that's what it is.
I should have known something like this was going to happen!
Man take it easy! You're sweating like crazy!
How long you been lying there playing possum with us, huh? Answer me!
He'll tell them everything to save his ass. That's how they all work it!
Shit! We're gonna have to get rid of him. I'm not letting some gangbanger ruin my life. We can't risk it.
What are you thinking?
I don't know...
You're thinking about killing him. I can't do that. No way. I've never killed a man. Never even shot at one.
Well neither have I, but it's us or him. If he talks, or writes a note or whatever, he's gonna turn us in. Besides, he's just a low life scumbag. His kind is hardly even human anyway.
I can't do that.
Okay then. I'll do it.
That's not what I mean.
Listen. Do you want to go to jail? Taking evidence, tampering with a crime scene. You know what they'd do.
He would have done it to us, right?
Exactly. This is our little secret, partner.
I could kill that no good son of a bitch!
All right enough! I'm tired of thinking about all this!
Well I'm not! Thinks he's got us by the balls.
Well doesn't he? Besides if the DEA heard that tape we'd be behind bars right now. Just call it the cost of doing business. This whole thing is screwed up. I'm thinking. Maybe we should tell 'em the truth...
...Or get rid of the money. I don't know.
I've got a better idea. All we have to do is straighten out Jesse.
And how do you figure we do that?
All we have to do is get our hands on the original tape. We'll set him up somehow.
He's probably made copies. He's not going to give them up to us.
Forget the copies! He could have made up the copies  the only thing that incriminates us is the original.
He's going to be trouble.
He's a partner now, Earl, like it or not.
We had a deal! What was I, talking to the wall?
For Christ's sake, Booth, I just needed to take care of a few debts is all! You got my word on it I'm not going near it again until everything cools down.
You said that last time!
Well I mean it this time. Come on. Let's get this over with!
You're out of your mind.
Yeah, I mean you're coming unglued, Jesse.
You think he's bluffing?
No.
Neither do I.
Look, Earl. We gotta go straight. This is all messed up...
If you're any friend at all, you'll stop talking like that!
Maybe we can reason with Jesse, give him a third in exchange for the tape.
I don't think he's going to be doing any bargaining with us, the stupid sonofabitch! Besides, I'm not giving him a third of anything, not after everything we had to do.
Well what are we supposed to do?
I don't know...we have to shut him up somehow. Booth looks at Earl 
You're crazy.
How badly do you want that money?! How bad do you want to stay out of jail?
Not bad enough to kill him.
Who said anything about killing? Just keep driving straight...
How long is it going to take?!
I don't know! Shit, give me a break!
What are you thinking? We were only supposed to scare him!
I'm just making our intentions clear. Go check the desk.
Here it is.
There it is...now what about the others?
Even if we have the tape, that wouldn't shut him up!
You killed him...
It's gonna be o.k.
Like hell it is. This is Jesse! Jesse!
Jesus Christ Earl...what are we doing?...
We're doing what we gotta do, to protect ourselves!
You don't know if he was really gonna 
Yes I DO! It never woulda stopped, you know that. Jesse's always gonna be making mistakes and we'd be paying for them for the rest of our lives.
Maybe we should say somethin'.
Come on. Booth grabs the bag 
Do you have everything?
I sure as hell hope so. Let's go.
I don't know for sure, but why else would they head for the bank?
It was all used. Random numbers. How can they trace it?
I don't know. They got all kinds of hightech shit nowadays.
Then we're screwed.
No we're not.
We're not? How do you figure that?
We'll take the money and disappear! We can do it, spend it on the move. Even if all of it's marked, there's ways around it.
We've got to go now, then.
That's right.
Then Sally comes too.
Oh Jesus...
He killed her...he killed her...
What happened? What's Earl doing here?
He found us, he shot her...he killed her...
Booth, listen to me...Booth!
He killed her...
We got to get out of here. Do you understand? We got to get out of here right now!
No. It stops now. It stops here.
What do you mean? Look. We can make still make it work.
Dwayne's dead.
I know, I know. Dwayne's dead, but we can deal with it. We'll pin it on him. The DEA was driving Jesse's car. No car phone. No radio. They couldn't have called me in.
What are you talking about?
Dwayne had the opportunity, just like us. He was at the scene. He grabbed the cash. Of course. This is perfect!
It's too late...
It's NOT too late!
Yes it is. I'm calling it in. Right now.
You're the one who's nuts! There's no one left to touch us, Booth. We're home free! We just plant a little of the money on Dwayne, and it's all ours.
It's not about the money anymore. Can't you see that? It's about
Just one more. This one knocks off all the rest.
I can't. I can't go on. I can't keep lying...killing. That's not me. That's not US.
That'll bring me down, too. Eventually. You gotta know that.
Uh huh.
And you're solid on that?
Rock solid.
Sort of!
Hey Dwayne why don't you introduce him to your funeral parlor cousin?
What the hell happened here?
Looks like some kind of drug deal or something, they're not from around here  one of them's still alive.
I'd like to know what they were doing in my town! Did you get ID off any of them?
None of them had any 
Damn.
I want to get some hounds down here.
Whatsamatter with you? Aren't you concerned about all of this?
I can't get enough of it.
I should kill you right here! I never thought you'd do this to me but I guess there's a lot I didn't know about you!
Dwayne listen to me 
Shut up! Not another word out of you! You're going down, the Feds know all about it! You didn't know some of it was marked, did you! Where's the rest?
I don't know what you're 
Don't lie to me!!!!
My man, how you doing?
I'm alright. And you?
Doing well. This is?
A friend. I was telling him about how you always have the latest tapes.
Why don't we step into my office...
I was wondering if you had any movies that were particularly new.
Matter of face there's this flick I've been hearing about. I haven't seen it, but from what I hear it's pretty cool.
Do you have the tape?
I might know where you could get a copy.
What I've heard so far, it's all a lot of talk. I wasn't so sure what to make of it at first, cause, like I said, the Irish and the Russians are an unlikely mix.
You said you might know where we can get a copy of this tape?
All depends on whether you want the Russian or the Gaelic language version.
Can you get it?
The Russian would be easier.
Seamus Reilly, boy's a serious Irish Auteur  a real firebrand. Thinks his more moderate filmmaking brethren have turned to making movies for peaceloving pussies, if you see what I'm saying.
I get the picture.
Tony and I have to talk some business, first.
I gotta try and overcharge him, he has to moan about the price, we settle somewhere in the middle.
It's a matter of respect. Why don't you wait outside, this won't take long.
Why didn't you kill her?
Why didn't you kill him?
You slept with her!
How is it these fellahs managed to get the drop on us?
You slept with her!
You should have kill him when you had the chance. But no...
You put everything on the line because you...
You slept with the fucker!!
What's the story?
It's an international thing. Several different peoples involved, criminals from all over the world, experts brought together to do a job. But maybe the most interesting thing about it is that preeminent in the plot we find the Russian Mob and the IRA in bed together. An unlikely group of partners.
Gaelic.
You sure?
I'm sure.
Why's that?
Cause the Russian production company would be easier to find.
It's the Irish tape we want.
Gonna be tough.
Last I heard there was a film rep for the Irish players staying at this address, name of Seamus Reilly.
Seamus Reilly.
Sorry I'm late...
What makes you think we're here to meet you?
Who else would you be?
Perhaps the police?
I know cops  and you're no cop.
Cigarette?
No thanks.
He trusts you to lock up?
Let's just say he knows who I am.
I'm Vincent. And I coordinate.
Coordinate what?
Things. This is my country, you know.
Where to?
To see a man about a thing.
I can do that.
Pretty much what you'd expect.
That's what I thought.
He says this is their block.
As in, they own it?
Something like that...
And I suppose he's saying that we oughta give them something for using it, huh?
I didn't know that you spoke French.
I don't. But the language he's speaking is universal.
What'd you say to him?
I asked if we could give him anything else.
That was a nice move you did on our young friend. Judo?
Jujitsu.
Same thing, isn't it?
Not at all. Similar, but not the same.
What's the difference?
One's a lot more painful than the other.
Help yourself. Since when do you smoke?
I have, I don't know, maybe a cigarette a week.
A cigarette? As in one? One cigarette a week, who smokes like that?
I do.
Christ, I smoke a packandahalf a day, and I tell myself I could be worse. It's just so damned pleasurable.
It has it's moments. Course, you get cancer and die, that's the down side.
There is that.
So, Vincent: why bring me along for the ride? Job like this calls for a warm body, somebody who can stand around and look threatening. A tough guy.
Like Larry or Swede.
Exactly. Why not bring them?
Let's just say I thought the conversational possibilities were limited. Of course, I might have brought Gregor, but he didn't seem like the right candidate  for this.
Watch that one, he's an exspook for sure, maybe Stasi, maybe KGB. He's smart, Gregor is.
So is the woman.
Deirdre? Smart, yeah, and seriously goddamned dangerous.
I wonder if she truly left the IRA.
I've wondered that myself. None of this answers my question, though... Why bring me?
I wanted to see who you were.
Who am I?
You were once some kind of special forces. Airborne Ranger, maybe a Navy SEAL. After that you rode shotgun for the CIA in some place like El Salvador or Afghanistan, a real mercenary. Only now  now you're like the rest of us, it's a very competitive market since the end of the cold war. There's a lot of hired guns out here, and not nearly enough work to go around.
That's right: there's not hardly enough work these days, nothing that pays the big money, anyhow. Then along comes this job, paying so much goddamned money I couldn't afford not to take it. Somebody's paying through the nose for this.
They certainly are. Whatever it is we're going to steal, it must be quite something.
Whatever it is it must be goddamned priceless.
Lovely, isn't it?
They'd have to keep something like this under lock and key in New York, and it would still get fucked up.
What's going on?
I just wanted to see something.
See what?
I needed to know.
You need to know a lot of shit, Vincent.
You know, what you pulled back there, that was bullshit.
I needed to see if you were a cop. I'm a popular man with the police, Sam, and whenever they try to catch me they always do it with an inside guy  some man on some job who seems more trustworthy than all the others put together. And that's the guy you have to watch out for. I hate cops...
Well I ain't a cop.
How did you know?
Know what?
That there was a gun pointed at me.
I saw you look off when Francois nodded his head. I figured he wasn't pointing out a particularly rare shrub, and the rest was easy.
But how did you know I would have the presence of mind to pull my weapon when I did?
Because that's what I would have done...
The question still remains: what do we do now?
Gregor's cell phone...
What's going on?
You weren't around when I woke up, I thought maybe something had happened. This has been one very fucked up job, Sam, and I'm not taking any more chances on anybody... Including you...
I came up here to sneak a smoke.
You were smoking?
I hope you don't mind I took your pack. It was on the table.
Please, help yourself. Smoke as many you'd like.
I borrowed that, too...
Of course...whenever you feel like it just help yourself.
I have a feeling I'm about to start buying my own.
It was at that.
A lot of people died.
I've seen a lot of people die before.
I haven't. Not like that. How do you get used to it?
You don't. You just learn to live with it.
I won't lie  there have been times when I had to do it, times when the only way to get out alive was to see that the other man didn't.
We live in a singular world, my friend.
I never really thought I was part of the world you move in, Sam, to tell you the truth. I'm a hood, a thief. Big time in a small time king of way. To the local police I'm a prize, to the local hoods I'm a legend. But to a guy like you I'm just another two bit hired gun.
You might be a hired gun, Vincent, but I got a feeling you cost more than two bits.
He's going back.
Not necessarily. He could go off road at any number of places. He might not even be in the country anymore.
It's Paris. The route's too indirect for anything else. A guy like Gregor, he doesn't waste time on this road unless he has to be on it in the first place. Otherwise, he'd be out of the country by now. He's going to Paris. Now I just hope we can find him before he gets there.
You're a cop...you're a fucking cop...I should kill you.
But you can't.
That makes twice now you've saved my life.
I didn't save your life back there. Risked it, maybe  but I didn't save shit.
You see it your way, I'll see it mine. You need a doctor.
You know one around here? Somebody you trust?
No...I thought I'd take you to the hospital.
No hospitals. I'll fix this myself if I have to.
Fix it yourself? Why are we even doing this? There's no need to run, Christ... You're a cop.
Not exactly.
You're with Interpol  you're a cop.
If I was a cop, a real cop, I'd have busted you a long time ago. This isn't about you, it's about the job I have to do.
And what job is that?
My job, Vincent, a job you don't need to know about. I can't go to the local cops  they'd never be able to get close enough at this point. It's me or nobody, and I've been on this job too goddamned long not to finish.
It looks to me like we're all that's left of our group.
We? There is no we in my world now, Vincent, just me.
I'm going with you.
This doesn't involve you, don't you understand? I can't even guarantee you any money out of all this.
It isn't about money for me, not anymore.
You don't have to do this.
Yes I do.
Alright, it's done.
You see the bullet?
Clearly.
Good. Now take the forceps, and remember, Vincent, what we're doing here is routine. I've done stuff like this at least twenty times in the field. There are no vital organs where you're working, no major muscles or arteries  you can't kill me. Just make sure you've got the bullet before you try to pull it out.
You know him?
I know of him.
The Irish representative?
Yes.
What's this?
The address of the Russian production company. Just in case we need to find them.
Thorough man.
You sure your friend got the right place?
If Tony says this is it, then it's it.
Tell me, Sam: why do you do this?
Do what?
Continue when it would be so much easier to give it up.
It's my job.
Then quit. You don't work for Interpol, Sam.
Sure I do. You heard him, you heard the guy  that's what he said, what Edvard said.
It's a cover, then. A cover within a cover, a feint within a feint. You work for the CIA, it's the only possible answer.
I'm a field agent  last of an already extinct breed. I do dark ops.
Dark ops?
Dark operations. Wet work. Kidnaping. Assassination.
Very ugly.
It is at that.
Not very zen of you, huh? Not so much the modern Samurai after all.
I never made that claim.
I know. JeanPierre did.
You were behind the door?
I was waiting to see what would happen. I didn't want to kill him if I didn't have to.
You would have done that?
I would have tried not to. But yes, if it would have kept him from shooting you, I would have.
How could you have done that?
Because I owe you. Look at that...
They don't have the package.
You think?
You said it yourself: Gregor's not dead. If they had the package, they'd have killed him.
What the fuck happened?
I don't know...
You don't know? Bullshit, you had her, there was no way out.
Give me a cigarette.
Right now?
Gimme a goddamn cigarette!!!!
Why are you driving? You're not French, you don't live here, you don't know these roads. Why are you driving?
I'm not here very much.
Business keeps you on the road?
Something like that.
I know I don't need to say this to you, but I need to say it to you. This is my job, I have to do it.
So I do it.
No you don't, and you know it.
If our positions were reversed, would you leave me?
In a minute.
I think not.
Do we need anything else?
Yeah. We need out fucking heads examined.
Not here. They might see it.
If I'm going to die for the CIA, I'm going to go out smoking. Besides, there's half a forest between us and them, they can't see a goddamned thing.
Time to quit.
Just like that?
Not just like that... Just before I turn around and it's six months from now and the first thing I do when I wake up in the morning is light a cigarette.
What of it? Samurai pain in the ass.
Would you stop with that...
Why? You've got more force of will than anyone I've ever seen. You handle a gun like it's a part of you, you perform surgery on yourself without anesthesia... And most amazing of all, you quit smoking, just like that.
The mark of a true Samurai. What I do for the Company, Vincent, is no different than what you do. We're both hired guns, and this is a job  like any other job.
Why then, Sam, don't you act like this is a job like any other? Surely, if you are a hired gun, you realize that some times you just have to walk away without getting what you came for.
Because I don't walk away.
Why not?
It's the one thing I've got left to hold onto. JeanPierre is one of your closest friends, is he not?
Closest and oldest.
And yet you would have killed him to save my life. You have a sense of honor, Vincent, that I can't even remember anymore. I don't know that I ever even had it to begin with. All I know to do, Vincent, is to finish my job.
And when you finish? What then? This package, whatever it is, do you give it to the CIA? Do you really think they deserve it?
That's a good question.
Do you have a good answer?
No, I don't.
You have to stop doing that!
I'll work on it...
Let's get him out of here...
Finish the job...
And now...
Finish it!
You sonofabitch...
What?
You speak French.
What of it?
Nothing...
"Your field dressing saved his life." That's three I owe you.
You don't owe me a goddamned thing, Vincent, and you know it. You stepped in front of a bullet for me. I owe you a heavy debt.
I know.
You better get some sleep, alright?
Tell me something first. The package: what was it?
I don't know. Nobody knows, except a bunch of people who are too dead to tell us. There's probably a couple of guys back at the Company who know, but I don't think they plan to tell me anytime soon.
What happened to it?
Gone. Destroyed.
I guess that's for the best.
I told you, I quit.
Just to keep me company, Sam  I hate smoking alone. How about you? I thought all you IRA types smoked.
What're you talking about, man? I don't understand.
What a surprise...
I got a surprise for you, blondie...
They call me Swede.
Who's they?
Everybody.
You should watch what you eat.
Who the fuck died and appointed you food czar?
I'm just worried about your health, Larry. You could stand to shed a few pounds.
And you could stand to get a little smarter, ain't that right you dumb blonde fuck?
Who you calling dumb, dickless?
I ride with fatboy...
Eat shit and die slowly...
After we stop the target car I get out and use the heavy artillery to kill the driver and his bodyguard.
I blast the lead car into oblivion...
Where is this broad?
You should learn a little patience.
Is that right?
It's consider a virtue in some corners of the world.
Not in mine.
I don't particularly like killing, tubby, but I want you to know that this one I'm going to enjoy.
I don't think so.
The point remains: we could be working for different people. There's a chance for one of us... Maybe more than one of us  has been paid to cross the others. I don't know about you guys, but I like to know who I'm working for. It can help prevent a great deal of... ...unpleasantness.
Anybody tries to unpleasant me I'll put two between his eyes  one to do the job and the other to make sure it takes.
You shoot alright.
Gets the job done.
All in the stomach, though. Your man might live.
Not for long.
Long enough to shoot back.
Is that right?
It's been known to happen.
Why don't you go do better, then...
Yeah, well... My way works too.
My way is better.
It's a cocktail. Mostly demerol, cut with a little crank because we might need you awake in the real near future.
Fine with fucking me, we got work to do. I don't care what it takes, we are getting our property back and putting it into the hands of the people who are gonna pay us a great deal of money when we do. I don't know about the rest of you guys, but I'm not the kind of guy to just sit back and take it in the ass. I don't mean that in, like, a literal way...
What are you gonna do, call him up and ask him to give us back our shit?
Did he bring that with him?
American.
Well, Vincent's American friend, shall we see what we can do for you?
Are you sure you won't have a drink?
No booze...Pain's in the mind, and the mind I can control. Alright, let's do it.
You think you can stitch me up on you own?
Don't worry, we'll take care of it.
Then if you don't mind... I'm gonna pass out.
Some, thanks. Enough to move on, for now.
You should really let a doctor look at that.
Soon.
But first you have something to take care of?
Yeah.
Something important? A thing that cannot wait?
It gets done now or not at all. Another couple of days and the parties concerned are gone where I can't get them.
Forgive my intrusion into your affairs, but I am the one who connected Vincent to this job, his agent, if you will. He is one of my oldest friends and I owe him a great debt, much like the debt I suspect he owes you.
He sees this differently, as you well know.
I didn't expect that he would.
You suffered through an agonizing pain last night, pain you could have avoided by declaring yourself an agent of the law.
Vincent told you that I'm a cop?
Not a word. But no ordinary criminal would have the extensive military and medical expertise you do. And so I place the pieces of the puzzle together in a way that makes sense to me. You work for some government agency and you carry a gun, and in my world, that makes you a cop.
So this is what, a test?
Call it a reckoning of character.
If I was healthy, I could take that away from you.
Perhaps. But you are not healthy, and if you try I'll kill you.
So what is it you want to know?
I suppose I want to know how a man like you is created.
Created?
Perhaps forged is a better word. Like steel. Like a sword. You're a modern Samurai. I've spent my life around extraordinary men  men like Vincent. But I've never seen anyone like you. I'm afraid Vincent will die if he goes with you.
Vincent's life is his own burden; he'll have to carry it for himself. And I'm not any kind of Samurai.
You seem one to me.
A Samurai has honor, a Samurai live by the code of Bushido, the way of the warrior. I'm just a killer for hire. The world isn't about honor, anymore. It's about survival.
Hello, JeanPierre.
Hello, my friend. He doesn't look French to me, Vincent.
He's tough, your American friend.
Yes, Sam's tough alright.
And you respect him.
Of course. Don't you?
I've never seen a man who could have taken what he just went through. He's a cop?
Not exactly.
Not exactly? But close enough, eh? So he saved your life, then?
How did you know?
If he hadn't you'd have put a bullet in his head a long time ago.
How so?
Because if there's more than one party involved, if we really are working for different people, then perhaps some of us are on different sides. Your orders might be different from mine.
I would imagine that the great satisfaction in all of this will be killing the American.
I hadn't thought about it. Understand me, Gregor  I take no pleasure in killing. It doesn't bother me one bit, but I don't get off on it.
A means to an end, is that it?
That's it.
Then I guess we're set.
There is one other thing...
What's that?
What are you doing?
Don't cross me...
Nobody's going to do that!
Really?
I need you, Swede, I can't do this without you!
I just wanted to make sure you knew who you were dealing with.
I do, I do...
Is it done?
It's done.
Gregor, is that you?
Much to your disappointment, no doubt.
It was a mistake, it shouldn't have happened.
I'm in the middle of saving you people a great deal of money  the least you could do is have the decency to pay me!
So what do we do?
What I do is none of your concern. What you should do is wait for my next phone call. I'm going to find a place where I can tilt the field in my favor. When I'm ready, I'll call you and tell you what I want you to do.
Whoever hired us.
I got this gig through a contractor. And he most definitely didn't know who was doing the hiring, only that they were paying a lot of money...
So none of us knows who's paying the freight, this is just some anonymous job. For all we know, we're working for different people.
Now that is an interesting proposition.
Don't talk to me unless you tell me what I want to hear, understand?!? You have no choice in this, don't think about winning, think about staying alive. I want the item, and if you don't give it to me, I'm gonna kill you.
I don't have it with me...
Bullshit!
I swear...
Then where is it?
I sent it to myself in Paris.
Sent it where?
A post office box.
If you're lying to me you poor excuse for a human being, I'm gonna blow your brains all over this car.
I swear, it has to come here! It has to...
This better be the real thing or you're a dead man!
It is, I'm telling you it is!!
You've told me a lot of things, boyo...
What am I doing here? Why, I'm here to see my partners, Gregor, the boys in the Russian Mafia. See, your bosses had hoped to screw me by hiring you to pull your thieving double cross. But they only just found out that what's in the briefcase is completely useless without me. I can't fight them, and they can't kill me  that means we're gonna have to do business together.
But you hate each other!
What's a little hate between business partners?
So, you've got it all figured, do you?
Figured enough to know there's an odd man out and I'm looking at him.
I think not. I have, of course, taken the precaution of wiring the briefcase to explode five seconds after it opens. Unless, of course, I deactivate it before it goes off.
Sit, sit... Would you like one?
No, Mikhi, I wouldn't. Since I won't speak your language, and you can't speak mine, English will do nicely.
Whatever you wish... This has all been a terrible mistake, Gregor. I wanted to play straight with you, but Edvard insisted we try and kill you.
Edvard said the same thing about you before he died.
I'm shocked, shocked to think that you'd believe him.
Enough!
And more importantly 
I'll destroy whatever's in the case.
We'll die if we stay here!
You'll die if you leave here.
Do you have it?
Not so fast. Who's that?
He's company.
Bad company...
What do you mean?
He's a cop, Vincent, he's French and he's a cop and you better shoot him in the fucking head right now!
Here's yours.
There's been a slight problem.
What's that?
If you say a word in English, Vincent, my friend with the high powered sporting rifle will shoot you in the throat. Sorry to screw you over like this, but the information you want might get me killed if I give it to you, and that's a price I'm not willing to pay.
I take it you still want the money...
Of course.
Where's my information?
In here...
Then you better find it in your heart to tell me, Francois, because while your death is inevitable, it still isn't decided how painful it's going to be.
Yes, Gregor, they sent me.
I'm touched, really, that they'd send someone of your caliber. It's nice to know that they didn't make the mistake of underestimating me twice.
That was a mistake, trying to kill you. Mikhi did it without consulting me, I'd have never allowed it.
I'm sure. But I'm sorry to say that it's too late for trust: we have a serious problem.
We'll double your price.
Really? Do you have the money with you?
Do you have the material?
You first, Edvard.
Perhaps we could both go at the same time...
I think not. After you...
Who are you? IRA?
Not likely. Once, yeah, I was  but there wasn't an inch of profit in it, and I'm a cash oriented girl, if you take my meaning. I'm a hired gun, same as the rest of you, and that's all any of us needs to know about the other.
From here on in you want something you pay cash for it: no credit cards, no bank accounts are in place: ten percent up front, the rest when the job is done. You. What do you do and what should we call you?
These days they they call me Gregor  and I'm a tech. I do electronic work, surveillance, computer runs.
It's quite satifactory.
Good, because it cost enough. There's cheaper phones by far than that one, man: you better fucking use it.
I intend to. This phone is wired like no other: it's got an encryption chip and instant satalink recognition, it can talk to any computer in any language and make it understand. With my custom hardware and this phone I can trace the target's cell phone signature and follow him anywhere he goes...
You sure about this?
I'd stake my reputation.
But would you stake your life, that's the question...
In this business, your life and your reputation are more often than not one and the same.
Now then, let's run through it one more time, shall we? What's your job?
I use my cell phone to get computer access to the telecommunications satellite used by our target. I trace his cell phone signature and use it to pin point his location as he moves through Nice, relaying that information to you.
Next.
Alright, Gregor, I'm...
Ready when you are...
Where's the case?
There's a problem...
That fucking figures...
Should any of you decide to rush me, I'll kill myself and whoever happens to be near me at the time.
Go ahead, shoot... Shoot and kill the bitch, I don't care. And yet you don't shoot. Interesting. Put down your weapon and walk away.
Don't do it, Sam!
Shut up!
He'll kill me anway, Sam, shoot though me and kill this fucker.
Sam. I'm a weapons guy.
You were a soldier, were you?
Once.
Hazard pay...
The two of you were supposed to go to a simple meet and come back with a simple piece of information, and instead you went to fucking war...
We weren't real thrilled about it either...
I feel as if I've wandered onto the set of Enter The Dragon. Could you teach me to do that?
I didn't think to see you again tonight. You were pretty pissed.
I still am.
Is that right?
That's right.
Part of me says I should just look at this as a perk. You know, a bonus. But then I remember you're you  Deirdre who used to belong to the IRA  and it occurs to me that deceit and subterfuge come very naturally to you.
Nobody's saying they don't.
And when I consider that, I have to wonder if you don't have some ulterior motive for being here, with me, right now.
I probably do. But for the time being, I'm willing to forget about it...
Look, Sam, don't take it the wrong way when I tell you we won't be doing this again.
You don't have to explain yourself to me, Deirdre.
I know I don't have to, Sam, it's just that, for once, I want to. when I was a  Patriot, it was a given I'd sleep with any man it was deemed necessary for me to sleep with. You know: any man who needed setting up. Sometimes so we might blackmail him, sometimes so he could be killed. Sometimes so I could kill him myself. IRA isn't exactly an enlightened feminist organization, Sam. To most of the men I with I was always the girl. "Send the girl to do it." "Tell The girl to take care of it." "Have the girl fuck him." But I look at you and I get this feeling you take me for what I am: no more, no less.
You're a hired gun, Deirdre  just like me.
Exactly. And last night I wanted to be with someone who was just like me.
I better be getting that.
Duty calls?
Just business.
Now, what did we steal?
I don't know... Well I don't! It's a goddamned mystery to me just like it is to you. But I do know who we're working for. My people, and the Russian mob.
Because if they had she'd be gone along with the package, instead of sitting here with us.
Exactly. Gregor, he was the Russian's man. It was my people came up with the idea for this run, but the Russians who had the capital to finance it. Gregor, he was their insurance, and I was ours. Everybody else was supposed to be neutral. Gregor must've got to Swede...
I bought it for him  all the stuff he was using, it was in his contract. Cost a nice penny, too, especially that goddamned phone: Gregor had expensive tastes.
Check this out. Gregor's a spook, or he was one until recently. When he was a spy he lived the life  you know, a prince in some Eastern Bloc country where nobody had shit and Gregor had everything. Then the wall goes down. No more Cold War. And Gregor is out of a job. No apartment, no special stores with Western food and video tapes. I would bet dollars against shit that Gregor liked that phone and he doesn't want to give it up. And I wouldn't be surprised if he's arrogant enough to think...
That we're too stupid to trace his calls.
Well, if it isn't Mr. Interpol himself. I can't believe I misjudged you like I did.
Oh please..you're on some sort of holy mission?
I'm a patriate.
Don't even think that I'm buying that.
Where do you get off saying word one? All the time pretending to be one of us, it's the same thing we were doing, Seamus and myself. And here you are so high and mighty, like you're so different from the rest of us.
I didn't say I was.
Bloody fucking hell...
Are you alright?
Alright? It's bloody fucking freezing in here!
Not me. You work too often with the same people and you become friends  clouds your judgement.
Come off it, Sam  if we weren't friends already we wouldn't be here now, would we?
When we're done with this, I want to do for that one myself.
Now there's the Deirdre I know.
And what's that supposed to mean, Seamus Reilly?
It means I was worried that all the time you spent away from the fold might have affected you. You've been living the life of the hired gun  the well paid hired gun, I might note. There's no glory to it, but there are those that like it.
So you thought that maybe I'd grown too attached to this charade I've been playing, is that it?
It's been known to happen.
Not to me, you know that.
I thought I did.
Problem my ass! I think you're lying to me, and if you are you're a dead man!
Would somebody tell me what fucking well happened in there?
Nothing.
What in bloody hell is going on?
They're part of the team. One of them's the guy I told you about.
From Interpol?
That's him.
Lose them!
You lose them!
About time!
Not yet...
Good Christ! Can't you lose these jokers?
They're good!
You better be careful, Seamus, before something happens a plastic surgeon can't fix.
Plastic fucking surgeon? You think I'm going to fix this, Deirdre lass? It's the mark of the patriot, and I'll wear it like a badge. As for those who done it to me, I'll take my pound of flesh before this is all over.
You're thinking with your gun, Seamus, and not your head...
Shut up!!! Shut up and drive! I'm your superior officer and you will do as I goddamn well say, is that understood?!?
Do I need to repeat myself?
No, Seamus. I heard you the first time.
It's good to see you've all got such faith in our little undertaking.
Who the fuck are you?
The name is Deirdre, and I'm running this show.
I drive  and my name is Larry. Larry from the States.
And who are you?
So what's the deal?
The deal? The deal is we leave for Nice at first light.
You call me with the target's route, I follow along until we've reached the attack point and then I run his squag ass off the road.
Which leads us to...
Then Swede and I split with the package and meet you back at the rendezvous.
And then...
And you believed me? But it wasn't my people who did it.
How do we know that?
I never did trust that blonde fuck...
That's why you were riding with him.
This...this is incredible. Is the rest of Europe like this?
Some places, not all. Italy, for instance, they're serious about their food. But try bloody Britain, anywhere in the U.K., you don't get much fancier than a deepfried bar egg. Food's not our thing, you see.
What is?
Best beer in the world known to man or God.
Best beer in the world? Budweiser for me, thanks.
Budweiser? You talk to me of beer and you've the unbridled gall to mention Budweiser in the same sentence? That's not beer! Christ, it's not even a poor excuse for rabbit piss.
Oh yeah? Whatta you drink, then?
I drink what every civilized man, woman and child in the world drinks: Guinness.
Coordinate all you want, but make sure whatever you do gets cleared through me. Are we in sync on this, Vincent?
Of course.
We kept it...
Is that right?
While Sam and I take out the back two cars...
Leaving...
And then Sam, you and I clean up whatever's left to be cleaned.
Very good. Now all we have to do is live long enough to get paid.
Of course.
Finding this package is a thing easier said than done. We don't even know what it is. What did we steal?
I don't know.
When this whole thing started you made it clear: you're running the show. And I don't believe you'd be running this show if you didn't know what was going on.
Well I don't!
And I don't believe you...
You go shoot me if you want, Vincent, but you'll be dead before I hit the ground.
I don't want you dead, woman, I want the the truth!
Only the stupid ones. Cigarettes kill more patriots than bullets. Besides, I'm not IRA no more.
So where do you go from here?
I don't know. I was thinking...Maybe the three of us might partner up  guns for hire, that sort of thing.
I'm up for that...
Do you have it?
Always in a rush, you are. All these years I've known you, you could never wait for anything.
This is important.
Do you really think so?
You know it is.
Why did you do that?
To make a point. I don't know her, and I was ready to splatter her brains all over the sidewalk. I don't particularly like you, so imagine what I'll do if you try anything...
It's under your seat.
What?
As my American friend Larry would say: are you fucking deaf? It's under your seat.
Madam, your mother craves a word with you. Come lets away.
Is she a Capulet?
His name is Romeo, and he's a Montague; The only son of your great enemy.
If ye should lead her into a fool's paradise, as they say, it were a very gross kind of behavior, as they say: for the lady is young; and, therefore, if you should deal double with her, truly it were an ill thing, and very weak dealing.
Bid her to come to confession this afternoon; And there she shall at Father Laurence' cell Be shrived and married.
Nurse.
Sir. Ah, sir. Death the end of all
O, she says nothing sir, but weeps and weeps, and then on Romeo cries and then falls down again.
As if that name, Shot from the deadly level of a gun did murder her, as that name's cursed hand did murder her kinsman.
Follow me close. Gentlemen, gooday. A word with one of you?
OH, and but one word with one of us? Couple it with something. Make it a word and a...a blow.
You shall find me apt enough to that, sir. And you will give me occasion.
Could you not take some occasion without giving?
Mercutio! Thou art consortest with Romeo?
Consort? What does thou make us minstrels? An thou make minstrels of us look to hear nothing of discords. Here's my fiddlestick. Here's that shall make you dance! Zounds, Consort!
Calm, Dishonorable, Vile Submission! Thou art my souls hate! Tybalt! You ratcatcher, will you walk?
What wouldst thou have with me?
Good king of cat's, nothing but one of your nine lives.
I am for you.
Young hearts run free. Never be caught up, caught up like Rosaline and thee. Nay, gentle Romeo, we must have you dance.
Not I, Not I believe me: you have dancing shoes With nimble soles: I have a soul of lead
You are a lover; borrow Cupid's wings, And soar with them above a common bound.
Under love's heavy burden do I sink.
Too great oppression for a tender thing.
Is love a tender thing? It is too rough, Too rude, too boisterous, and it pricks like thorn.
If love be rough with you, be rough with love; Prick love for pricking, and you beat love down.
Why, may one ask?
I dream'd a dream tonight.
And so did I.
Well, what was yours?
That dreamers often lie.
In bed asleep, while they do dream things true.
O, then, I see Queen Mab hath been with you. She is the fairies' midwife, and she comes In shape no bigger than an agatestone On the forefinger of an alderman, Drawn with a team of little atomies Over men's noses as they lie asleep; Her chariot is an empty hazelnut Her wagoner a small greycoated gnat, And in this state she gallops night by night Through lovers' brains, and then they dream of love; O'er lawyers' fingers, who straight dream on fees, Sometime she driveth o'er a soldier's neck, And then dreams he of cutting foreign throats, And being thus frighted swears a prayer or two And sleeps again. This is the hag, when maids lie on their backs, That presses them and learns them first to bear, Making them women of good carriage: This is sheThis is she!
Peace, good Mercutio, peace! Thou talk'st of nothing.
True, I talk of dreams, Which are the children of an idle brain, Begot of nothing but vain fantasy, Which is as thin of substance as the air And more inconstant than the wind, who wooes Even now the frozen bosom of the north, And, being anger'd, puffs away from thence, Turning his face to the dew dropping south.
Away, begone; the sport is at the best.
Ay, so I fear; the more is my unrest.
Ho Ho, Capital Punks!
Signior Romeo, bon jour! there's a French salutation to your French slop. You gave us the counterfeit fairly last night.
Good morrow to you both. What counterfeit did I give you?
The slip, son, the slip; can you not conceive?
Pardon, good Mercutio, my business was great; and in such a case as mine a man may strain courtesy.
That's as much as to say, such a case as yours constrains a man to bow in the hams.
Meaning, to court'sy.
Thou hast most kindly hit it.
A most courteous exposition.
Nay, I am the very pink of courtesy.
Pink for flower.
Right.
Why, then is my pump well flowered.
Sure Witt! Now art thou sociable, now art thou Romeo; now art thou what thou art, by art as well as by nature.
Here's goodly gear!
I will follow you.
Farewell, ancient lady; farewell,
Ay, ay, a scratch, a scratch. Ay, a scratch, a scratch. HA HA HA.
Courage man, the hurt can not be much.
'Twill serve. Ask for me tomorrow and you shall find me a grave man. A plague o' both your houses. They have made worms meat of me. A plague on both your Houses! Why the devil did you come between us? I was hurt under your arm.
I thought all for the best.
A Plague o' both your houses.
NO! Mercutio!
Nurse, give leave awhile, We must talk in secret. Nurse, come back again; I have remember'd me, thou's hear our counsel. Nurse, Thou know'st my daughter's of a pretty age.
Thou wast the prettiest babe that e'er I nursed.
By my count, I was your mother much upon these years, You are now a maid. Thus then in brief: The valiant Paris seeks you for his love.
A man, young lady! Lady, such a man As all the world why, he's a man of wax.
Verona's summer hath not such a flower.
Nay, he's a flower; in faith, a very flower.
This night you shall behold him at our feast; Read o'er the volume of young Paris' face, And find delight writ there with beauty's pen; This precious book of love, this unbound lover, To beautify him, only lacks a cover: So shall you share all that he doth possess, By having him, making yourself no less.
Nay, bigger; women grow by men.
Speak briefly, can you like of Paris' love?
Go! We follow thee. Juliet, Blah!
Go, girl, seek happy nights to happy days.
Did my heart love till now? forswear it, sight! For I ne'er saw true beauty till this night.
If I profane with my unworthiest hand This holy shrine, the gentle sin is this: My lips, two blushing pilgrims, ready stand To smooth that rough touch with a tender kiss.
Good pilgrim, you do wrong your hand too much, Which mannerly devotion shows in this; For saints have hands that pilgrims' hands do touch, And palm to palm is holy palmers' kiss.
Have not saints lips, and holy palmers too?
Ay, pilgrim, lips that they must use in prayer.
Well, then, dear saint, let lips do what hands do; They pray, grant thou, lest faith turn to despair.
Saints do not move, though grant for prayers' sake.
Then move not, while my prayer's effect I take. Thus from my lips, by yours, my sin is purged.
Then have my lips the sin that they have took.
Sin from my lips? O trespass sweetly urged! Give me my sin again.
You kiss by the book.
He jests at scars that never felt a wound. But, soft! what light through yonder window breaks? It is the east, and Juliet is the sun. Arise, fair sun, and kill the envious moon, Who is already sick and pale with grief, That thou her maid art far more fair than she: Be not her maid, since she is envious; Her vestal livery is but sick and green And none but fools do wear it; oh cast it off. It is my lady, O, it is my love! O, that she knew she were!
Ay me!
She speaks: O, speak again, bright angel!
Romeo, O Romeo! wherefore art thou Romeo? Deny thy father and refuse thy name; Or, if thou wilt not, be but sworn my love, And I'll no longer be a Capulet.
[Aside] Shall I hear more, or shall I speak at this?
'Tis but thy name that is my enemy; Thou art thyself, though not a Montague. What's Montague? it is nor hand, nor foot, Nor arm, nor face, nor any other part Belonging to a man. O, be some other name! What's in a name? that which we call a rose By any other word would smell as sweet; So Romeo would, were he not Romeo call'd, Retain that dear perfection which he owes Without that title. O Romeo, doff thy name, And for that name which is no part of thee Take all myself.
I take thee at thy word.
Ahhh!
Art thou not Romeo and a Montague?
Neither, fair maid, if either thee dislike.
How camest thou hither, tell me, and wherefore? The garden walls are high and hard to climb, And the place death, considering who thou art, If any of my kinsmen find thee here.
With love's light wings did I o'erperch these walls; For stony limits cannot hold love out, And what love can do that dares love attempt; Therefore thy kinsmen are no let to me.
If they do see thee, they will murder thee.
I have night's cloak to hide me from their eyes, And but thou love me, let them find me here: My life were better ended by their hate, Than death prorogued, wanting of thy love.
Thou know'st the mask of night is on my face, Else would a maiden blush bepaint my cheek For that which thou hast heard me speak tonight Fain would I dwell on form, fain, fain deny What I have spoke: but farewell compliment! Dost thou love me? I know thou wilt say 'Ay,' And I will take thy word: yet if thou swear'st, Thou mayst prove false. O gentle Romeo, If thou dost love, pronounce it faithfully:
Lady, by yonder blessed moon I swear That tips with silver all these fruittree tops
O, swear not by the moon, the inconstant moon, That monthly changes in her circled orb, Lest that thy love prove likewise variable.
Well what shall I swear by?
Do not swear at all; Or, if thou wilt, swear by thy gracious self, Which is the god of my idolatry, And I'll believe thee.
If my heart's dear love
Do not swear: although I joy in thee, I have no joy of this contract tonight: It is too rash, too unadvised, too sudden; Too like the lightning, which doth cease to be Ere one can say 'It lightens.' Sweet, good night! This bud of love, by summer's ripening breath, May prove a beauteous flower when next we meet. Good night.
O, wilt thou leave me so unsatisfied?
What satisfaction canst thou have tonight?
The exchange of thy love's faithful vow for mine.
I gave thee mine before thou didst request it!
So thrive my soul
A thousand times good night! Exit, above
A thousand times the worse, to want thy light. Love goes toward love, as schoolboys from their books, But love from love, toward school with heavy looks.
Romeo! At what o'clock tomorrow Shall I send to thee?
By the hour of nine.
I will not fail: 'tis twenty year till then.
Come gentle night. Come loving blackbrowned night give me my Romeo. And when I shall die, take him and cut him out into little stars, and he will make the face of heaven so fine that all the world will be in love with night and pay no worship to the garish sun. O, I have bought the mansion of love but not possessed, and though I am sold, not yet enjoyed. O, tedious is this day, as the night before some festival to an impatient child that hath new robes and may not wear them.
Mercutio's soul is but a little way above our heads staying for thine to keep him company!
Wilt thou be gone? It is not yet near day.
I must be gone and live, or stay and die.
That light is not daylight, I know it, I. It is some meteor that the sun exhales to light thee on thy way to Mantua. Therefore stay yet. Thou needest not be gone.
Let me be taken, let me be put to death. I have more care to stay then will to go. Come death, Welcome, Juliet wills it so. How is't my soul? Let us talk it is not day.
It is, It is! Hie hence, be gone, away. O, now be gone. More light and light it grows.
More Light and light, more dark and dark our woes.
Then window, let day in and let life out. O, think'st thou we shall ever meet again?
I doubt it not. Trust me, love, all these woes shall serve for sweet discourses in our times to come. Adieu.
O God, I have an illdivining soul. Methinks I see thee, now thou art so low, as one dead in the bottom of a tomb. O fortune, fortune. Be fickle, fortune, for then I hope that thou will not keep him long but send him back.
Romeo. What's here? Poison. Drunk all, and left no friendly drop to help me after. I will kiss thy lips. Happily some poison yet doth hang on them. Thy lips are warm.
Thus..... with a kiss...... I die.
I bade her come. God forbid! Juliet! Juliet! Juliet!
Madam, I am here. What is your will?
Juliet!
Three words, dear Romeo, and good night indeed. If that thy bent of love be honourable, Thy purpose marriage, send me word tomorrow, By one that I'll procure to come to thee, Where and what time thou wilt perform the rite; And all my fortunes at thy foot I'll lay And follow thee my lord throughout the world.
[Within] Juliet!
I uh, by and by I comeBut if thou mean'st not well, I do beseech thee
[Within] Juliet!
By and by, I come:  To cease thy strief, and leave me to my grief: Tomorrow will I send.
O honey nurse, what news? Nurse?
I am aweary, give me leave awhile: Fie, how my bones ache! what a jaunt have I!
I would thou hadst my bones, and I thy news: I pray thee, speak.
What haste? can you not stay awhile? Do you not see that I am out of breath?
How art thou out of breath, when thou hast breath To say to me that thou art out of breath? Is the news good, or bad? answer to that;
Well, you have made a simple choice; you know not how to choose a man: Romeo! no, not he; though his face be better than any man's, yet his leg excels all men's; and for a hand, and a foot, and a body,
But all this did I know before. What says he of our marriage? what of that?
Lord, how my head aches! what a head have I! O, my back! Other' other side,O, my back.
I' faith, I am sorry that thou art not well. Sweet, sweet, sweet nurse, tell me, what says my love?
Your love says, like an honest gentleman, and a courteous, and a kind, and a handsome, and, I warrant, a virtuous,Where is your mother?
Where is my mother! How oddly thou repliest! Your love says, like an honest gentleman, Where is your mother?'
O lady dear! Are you so hot? Henceforward do your messages yourself.
Here's such a coil! Come, what says Romeo?
Have you got leave to go to confession today?
I have.
Then hie you hence to Father Laurence' cell; There stays a husband to make you a wife
Faith, here it is. I think it best you marry with this Paris. O, he's a lovely gentleman. I think you are happy in this second match, for it excels your first; or if it did not, your first is deador 'twere as good he were as living here and you no use to him.
Speakest thou from thy heart?
And from my soul too. Else beshrew them both.
Amen
What?
Well, thou hast comforted me marvelous much. Go in and tell my lady I am gone, having displeased my father to Father Lawrence to make confession and be absolved.
O God. Did Romeo's hand shed Tybalt's blood? O serpent heart hid with a flowering face. Was ever book containing such vile matter's so fairly bound? O, that deceit should dwell in such a gorgeous palace.
She'll not come down tonight.
Thou hast a careful father, child: One who, to put thee from thy heaviness, hath sorted out a sudden day of joy that thou expects nor I looked not for.
Madam, in happy time what day is that?
Marry my child next Thursday Morn. The gallant, young and noble gentleman, Sir Paris, at Saint Peter's Church, shall make thee there a joyful bride.
What? Now. St. Peter's Church, and Peter too, he shall not make me there a joyful bride!
Here comes your father, tell him so yourself.
O sweet my mother cast me not away. Delay this marriage for a month, a week. Or if you do not make the bridal bed in that dim monument where Tybalt lies.
Talk not to me, for Ill not speak a word. Do as thou wilt for I have done with thee.
O God!O Nurse, how shall this be prevented? What sayest thou? Hast thou not a word of joy? Some comfort nurse.
What, daughter are you busy? Need you my help?
No, madam. We have culled such necessaries as our behoveful for our state tomorrow. so please you, let me now be left alone, and let the nurse this night sit up with you. for I am sure you have your hands full in all this so sudden business.
Geth thee to be and rest, for thou has need.
Farewell. God knows when we shall meet again.
Goodnight.
Romeo, I drink to thee.
Juliet!
O, mighty is the powerful grace that lies in plants, herbs, stones, and their true qualities: for nought so vile that the earth doth live but to the earth some special good doth give, nor aught so good, but strain'd from that fair use revolts from true birth, stumbling on abuse: virtue itself turns vice, being misaplied; and vice sometimes by action dignified. Within the infant rind of this weak flower poison is resident and medicine power: for this, being smelt, with that part cheers each part; being tasted, slays all senses with the heart. Two such empossed kings encamp them still in man as well as herbs, grace and rude will; and where the worser is predominant, full soon the canker death eats up that plant.
I come for my lady Juliet.
Welcome.
Where is my Lady's lord?
Romeo, come forth.
I thought thy disposition better tempered! Thy Juliet is alive. There art thou happy. The law that threatened death becomes thy friend and turns it to exile. There art thou happy. A Pack of blessings light upon thy back. Wherefore railest thou on thy birth the heaven and earth? Since birth and heaven and earth all three do meet in thee at once.
Sir, a ring my lady bid me give you.
Good marrow, father!
Benedicite! What early tounge so sweet saludeth me?
Young son, it argues a distemper'd head so soon to bid good marrow to thy bed: or if not so so, then here I hit it right, our Romeo hath not seen his bed tonight.
The last is true; the sweeter rest was mine.
God pardon sin, was thou with Rosaline!?
Rosaline? My ghostly father no; I have forgot that name, and that name's woe.
That's my good son: but where hast thou been
I have been feasting with mine enemy, where on a sudden one hath wounded me, that's by me wounded; both our remeidies within thy help and holy physic lies.
Be plain, good son, and homely in thy drift; riddling confession finds but riddling shrift.
Then plainly know my hearts dear love is set, on the fair daughter of rich Capulet. We met, we wooed, we made exchange of vow. I'll tell thee as we pass; but this I pray, that thou consent to marry us today.
Holy Saint Francis, what a change is here! Is Rosaline that thou didst love so dear so soon forsaken? Young men's love then lies not truly in their hearts but in their eyes.
Thou chid'st me oft for loving Rosaline.
For doting; not for loving, pupil mine.
I pray thee, chde me not; whom I love now doth grace for grace and love for love allow; the other did not so.
O, she new well. Thy love read by rote and could not spell. Come, young waverer, come, go with me, In one respect I'll thy assistant be; for this alliance may so happy prove, to turn you household rachor to pure love.
O, let us hence; I stand on sudden haste.
Wisely and slow; they stumble that run fast.
Banishment? Be merciful, say death; for exile hath more terror in his look much more than death. Do not say Banishment.
Affliction is enamoured of thy parts, and thou art wedded to calamity. Hence from Verona art thou banished. Be patient, for the world is broad and wide.
There is no world without Verona walls, hence banished is banished from the world and worlds exile is death. Then banished is death mistermed. Calling death banished, thou cu'st my head off with a golden axe and smiles upon the stroke that murders me.
O deadly sin, O rude unthankfulness! This is dear mercy and thou sees it not. Hence!
How well my comfort is revived by this.
Hie you make haste! But look thou stay not till the watch be set, for then thou canst not pass to Mantua where thau shalt live till we can find a time to blaze you marriage, reconcile your friends, beg pardon of the Prince and call thee back with twenty hundred times more joy, than thou wentst forth in lamentation. Quick hence! Be gone by break of day! Sojourn in Mantua.
Farewell.
As the custom is, in all her best array, bear her to church.
And all this day an unaccustomed spirit lifts me above the ground with cheerful thoughts. I dreampt my lady came and found me dead and breathed such life with kisses in my lips that I revived and was an emperor. Ah me, how sweet is love itself possessed when but love's shadow's are so rich in joy. News from Verona. How now, Balthasar?! Dost thou not bring me letters from the Priest? How doth my lady? Is my Father well? How doth my lady Juliet? For nothing can be ill if she be well.
Are you at leisure Holy Father, now? Or shall I come to you at evening mass?
My leisure serves me, pensive daughter now. We must entreat the time alone.
It strains me past the compass of my wits.
If in thy wisdom thou canst give no help Do thou but call my resolution wise, And with this I'll help it presently!
Hold Daughter!
Be not so long to speak I long to die.
I do spy a kind of hope, Which craves as desperate and execution as that is desperate which we would prevent. If, rather than to marry Paris, Thou hast the strength of will to slay thyself, Then it is likely thou wilt undertake a thing like death, to chide away this shame. No warmth, no breath shall testify thou livest . Each part, deprived of supple government, shall stiff and stark and cold appear, like death. Now when the bridegroom in the morning comes to rouse thee from thy bed, there art thou dead. Thou shalt be borne to that same ancient vault where all he kindred to the Capulet lie. In the meantime, against thou shalt awake, shall Romeo by my letters know our drift, and hither shall he come. And that very night shall Romeo bear thee hence to Mantua. Take thou this vial, being then in bed, and this distilling liquor drink thou off. I'll send my letters to thy lord post haste to Mantua.
What if this mixture do not work at all? Shall I be married then tomorrow morning?
Such mortal drugs I have, but Verona's law is death to any that utters them.
The world is not thy friend, nor the worlds law. Then be not poor, but break it, and take this.
My poverty, but not my will consents.
I pay thy poverty, and not thy will.
Drink it off and, if you had the strength of twenty men it would dispatch you straight.
Here is my gold. Worse poison to men's souls, than these poor compounds that thou mayest not sell.
What dares the slave Come hither, To fleer and scorn at our solemnity? Now, by the stock and honour of my kin, To strike him dead, I hold it not a sin.
Why, how now, kinsman! wherefore storm you so?
Uncle, this is that villain Romeo, a Montague, our foe.
Young Romeo is it?
'Tis he.
Content thee, gentle cuz, content thee. Let him alone; I would not for the wealth of all the town Here in my house do him disparagement: Therefore be patient, take no note of him
I'll not endure him.
He shall be endured
Uncle, 'tis a shame.
Go to! What, goodman boy! I say, he shall: go to; Make a mutiny among my guests?!
Why then, O brawling love, O loving hate, O anything of nothing first create. heavy lightness. Serious vanity. Misshapen chaos of well seeming forms.
Goodmorrow, cousin.
Is the day so young?
But new struck cuz.
Ay me! Sad hours seem long. Was that my father that went hence so fast?
It was. What sadness lengthens Romeo's hours?
Not having that, which, having, makes them short.
In love?
Out
Of love?
Out of her favour, where I am in love.
Alas, that love, so gentle in his view, Should be so tyrannous and rough in proof!
Alas, that love, whose view is muffled still, Should, without eyes, see pathways to his will! Where shall we dine? O me! What fray was here? Yet tell me not, for I have heard it all. Here's much to do with hate, but more with love. Why, then, O brawling love! O loving hate! O any thing, of nothing first create! O heavy lightness! Serious vanity! Misshapen chaos of wellseeming forms! Feather of lead [Benvolio Snickers] Dost thou not laugh?
No, cuz, I rather weep.
Good heart, at what?
At thy good heart's oppression.
Farewell, my cuz.
Soft! I will go along; An if you leave me so, you do me wrong.
Tell me in sadness, who is that you love.
In sadness, cousin, I do love a woman.
I aim'd so near, when I supposed you loved.
A right good marksman! And she's fair I love.
A right fair mark, fair cuz, is soonest hit.
Well, in that hit you miss: she'll not be hit With Cupid's arrow; Nor bide the encounter of assailing eyes, Nor open her lap to saintseducing gold:
Then she hath sworn that she will still live chaste?
She hath, and in that sparing makes huge waste.
Be ruled by me, forget to think of her.
Teach me how I should forget to think.
By giving liberty unto thine eyes; Examine other beauties. Why, Romeo, art thou mad?
Not mad, but bound more than a madman is; Shut up in prison, kept without my food, Whipp'd and tormented. Good day, good fellow.
Every man betake him to his legs.
But 'tis no wit to go.
This wind, you talk of, blows us from ourselves; Supper is done, and we shall come too late.
I fear, too early: for my mind misgives Some consequence yet hanging in the stars Shall bitterly begin his fearful date With this night's revels and expire the term Of a despised life closed within my breast By some vile forfeit of untimely death. But He, that hath the steerage of my course, Direct my sail! On, lusty gentlemen.
Forbear this outrage, good Mercutio.
Art thou hurt?
Romeo! Romeo!
Romeo! humours! madman! passion! lover! I conjure thee by Rosaline's bright eyes, By her high forehead and her scarlet lip, By her fine foot, straight leg and quivering thigh! O, Romeo that she were An open ass, and thou a poperin pear! Romeo, good night: I'll to my trucklebed; This fieldbed is too cold for me to sleep.
Where the devil should this Romeo be? Came he not home tonight?
Not to his father's; I spoke with his man.
Why that pale hardhearted wench, that Rosaline. Torments him so, that he will sure run mad.
Tybalt, the kinsman of old Capulet, Hath sent a letter to his father's house.
A challenge, on my life.
Romeo will answer it?
Any man that can write may answer a letter.
Nay, he will answer the letter's master, how he dares, being dared.
But alas poor Romeo! he is already dead; stabbed with a white wench's black eye; shot through the ear with a lovesong; the very pin of his heart cleft with the blind bowboy's buttshaft: and is he a man to encounter Tybalt?
Why, what is Tybalt?
More than prince of cats. He is the courageous captain of compliments. He fights as you sing prick song, keeps time, distance, and proportion; he rests his minim rest, one, two, and the third in your bosom: the very butcher of a silk button, a duellist, a duellist; a gentleman of the very first house, of the first and second cause: the immortal passado! punto reverso! the hai!
The what?
Keep away the cats! Thou art like one of these fellows that, when he enters the confines of a tavern claps me his sword upon the table and says, &quot;God send me no need of thee.&quot; and by the operation of the second cup draws him on the drawer, when indeed there is no need.
Am I like Such a fellow?
Thou art as hot a Jack in thy mood as any in Verona.
By my head here come the Capulets.
By my heel, I care not.
Either withdraw unto some private place, or reason coldly of your grievences, or else depart. Here all eyes gaze on us.
Men's eyes were made to look, and let them gaze. I will not budge for no man's pleasure, I.
If she is well then nothing can be ill. Her body rests in Capel's monument, and her immortal part with the angel's lives. I saw her laid low. Pardon me for bringing these ill news.
Then I defy you, stars! JULIET! JULIET! I will hence tonight.
Have patience!
Leave Me!
Your looks are pale and wild and do import some misadventure.
Tush, thou art deceived. Hast thou no letters to me from the priest? [Balthsasr shakes his head no.] No matter. Well, Juliet, I will lie with thee tonight. I will hence tonight.
Live and be prosperous; and farewell good fellow.
Then I'll leave thee.
Tempt not a desperate man!
Boo! Ah, ha ha. Ooh. Boo! Ha ha ha.
I will bite my thumb at them; which is a disgrace to them, if they bear it.
Do you bite your thumb at us, sir?
I do bite my thumb, sir!
Do you bite your thumb at us? Sir.
[Aside to GREGORY] Is the law on our side, if I say ay?
Quarrel sir! no, sir.
If you do, sir, I am for you. I serve as good a man as you.
No better?
Uh? Uh?
Pattycake! Pattycake!
Baker's man... but no use ruinin' a good pair of shoes over it.
My advice? Hop on over to Reno, get yourself a quickie divorce.
Divorce? Never!
Aah!
Aah!
What the hell are you doin'?
I needed a place to hide. I'm in trouble, Eddie.
So I hear. Even talkin' to you could get me a rap for aiding and abetting.
Don't worry, Eddie, no one knows I'm here.
Oh, yeah? Then how'd you find my house?
Well, I asked the newsboy on the corner. He didn't know. Then I asked a janitor, the fireman and finally the green grocer down the way. He was very helpful.
In other words, the whole goddamn world knows you're here! Out! Get out!
Look, pal, if you're still here when I finish this drink, I'm callin' the police.
Don't do that! I'm innocent I tell ya. The police'll just dip me. They were waitin' for me when I got home last night. I ran.
If you're so innocent, why'd you run?
Gee, Eddie, I'm a rabbit. We always run.
Eddie Valiant... you're under arrest! Just kidding...
You idiot. I lost the key for those cuffs.
Hey! What do you think you're doin'?
Sorry, Eddie, I forgot you're not a Toon.
Don't ever forget that.
Does this help?
Yeah, that's better.
You mean to tell me you coulda taken your hand outta that cuff at any time?
Well, no, not <u>any</u> time. Only when it was funny.
Are you always this funny, or only on days when you're wanted for murder?
My philosophy is if you don't have a sense of humor, you're better off dead.
Yeah... well you just might get your wish.
Yeah. I think Maroon plays the part of the sound mind, your wife the sound body.
I resent that innuendo! My wife is completely innocent.
Your wife may be a lot of things, pal, but innocent isn't one of them.
The habeus corpus is thickening.
Yeah. Except they screwed up. I don't think they got the will.
How do you know that?
Well, Acme had the will in his pocket that night at the club. It was gone in the morning when the cops found the body.
Well, Mr. SmartyPants Detective, your logic is specious. What prevented Mr. Acme from putting the will back in the safe before they killed him?
Because he's not forty feet tall. The safe was up on the ceiling, remember?
Hey, don't I get an encore?
Why, you crazy Toon... I've been out there riskin' my neck for you. I come back here and you're singin' and dancin'.
But that's my calling, my purpose, my raison d'etre. Toons are supposed to make people laugh... and believe me, those people needed a laugh.
And when they're done laughin' , they're gonna call the cops. That guy Angelo would rat on you for a nickel!
Angelo? He's a pal, a chum...
An arsonist and a kidnapper. He just got outta prison.
Well... I still don't think he'd turn me in.
Just because you got 'em to laugh?
A laugh can be a powerful thing, Eddie. Sometimes it's the only weapon we have in life.
I think I prefer the Smith and Wesson variety.
I've met some cynical and miserable humans in my time. But you, Edward Valiant, are positively funereal!
Well, right now it's gonna be your funereal.
Hey, doesn't the rabbit even get a last request?
A blindfold, cigarette, noseplugs? Just kidding.
I think you want a drink. How about it, Judge?
Here you go, kid... say hi to Casper for me.
But, Eddie, you know what happens when...
Drink it, jerk. All of it.
Oh, Eddie, that was quick thinkin'. Nothin' like usin' the old noggin, the noodle, the grey matter...
If I'm so smart, how come I'm runnin' from the law with a Toon?
Valiant and Valiant? Who's the other Valiant?
My brother. Get inside.
So what's our plan, our scenario, our modus operandi?
We can't do anything till it's dark.
Say, who's this guy laughin'?
Me.
Gee, I didn't recognize you... I've never seen you laugh before. That your brother makin' the rabbit ears?
What is this, Twenty Questions?
You damn Toon! No wonder they picked you for the patsy. Always gotta play the fool. You make me sick!
Gee, you shamuses are a tough audience, but what happened to you that was so dark, lurid, embittering?
You wanna know? Well, since you're so goddamn curious, I'll tell ya. One of you Toons killed my brother.
A Toon? Noooo.
Yeah, a Toon. It was the guy who killed Bambi's mother.
Him? Oh, he was vile, heinous, despicable... a smear on the drafting board.
Yeah, everybody thought so. But me and Teddy got a kick out of Toons. All Toons. We couldn't see the bad in 'em. And when this guy was accused of knockin' over the First National Bank of Toontown, we took his case. But when we looked into it, we found out he did do it after all. We went to his house to take him in. But he was wise. He got the drop on us... literally.
Safe?
Piano. Guy got away, disappeared into Toontown. Nobody ever saw him again.
I'll get it.
Get away from there.
Wrong number?
No, it's not.
Gee, Eddie, you're not gonna go, are ya? Maroon'll be layin' for ya at nine o'clock.
That's why I'll be there at 8:45.
I tell you what, maybe I better come with you.
Forget it.
You know, Eddie, I'm not as much of a chump, and a patsy, a yokel as you think.
How much is a shave and a haircut, Roger?
Two bits.
I rest my case.
If I don't make it back here by ten...
Yeah?
... I'd head for Cucamonga.
What the hell are you doin' in there?
I followed you to the Maroon Studios. When I heard those shots, I thought I'd help you and investigate the inside of this trunk.
Real good, Rog... but maybe you better let me take over.
Not before I satisfy my sense of moral outrage.
That's not blood. That's ink. That goof Acme squirted me with some the other day. Why it's comin' 'through now, I don't know.
That's because it's DisappearingReappearing Ink. Shows up three days later. Gives you enough time to get away from the victim so he doesn't punch you in the nose. Great gag.
Yeah...
Say Roger, remember that love letter you wrote your wife at the Ink & Paint Club?
Yeah?
I think you oughta read it to her.
Good idea.
Keep reading...
Hey, it's the will. I, Marvin Acme, of sound mind and body, hoohoohoohoo, do hereby bequeath in perpetuity the property known as Toontown to those loveable characters...
No, kid, you're a real hero.
I guess I am at that. Cigar?
By the way, Roger, you were right about your wife. She's a good lady. I'm glad you got her back.
And I'm glad you got your sense of humor back. Think you'll keep it?
Only time will tell.
Pretty good cigar. Where'd you get it?
From this box here...
Valiant, did you see the rabbit?
He was blowin' his lines, all right. So what?
So what? He's already put me three weeks behind on the shooting schedule!
How much do you know about show business, Valiant?
Only there's no business like it, no business I know.
Yeah, and there's no business as expensive. I'm twentyfive grand over budget on the latest Bunnysitter cartoon and it's all because that rabbit can't keep his mind on his work. And you know why?
One too many safes dropped on his head?
Nah, that goes with the territory. He's a stunt bunny.
Here's the problem... "Seen cooing over calamari with notsonew Sugar Daddy was Jessica Rabbit... wife of Maroon star, Roger". His wife's a tramp, but he thinks she's Betty Crocker. The doubt's eatin' him up.
So what do you want me to do?
Get me a couple juicy pictures. Somethin' I can wise the rabbit up with.
I don't work in Toontown.
You don't have to. The rabbit's wife sings at an underground Toon revue joint called The Ink & Paint Club. You can catch her in action there.
The job's gonna cost you a hundred bucks.
A hundred bucks? That's ridiculous.
So's the job.
I got him on loan from Disney.
Aren't you the lucky one...
When will I hear from you?
As soon as is humanly possible.
Well, you better start thinkin' about drinkin' it black.
Frankly, I'm shocked. Marvin Acme's been my friend and neighbor for thirty years.
Sonofabitch... Mr. Maroon, I think I'll be goin' now, so about the rest of my fee...
Sure, Valiant, sure...
Hi, Mr. Maroon. Remember me?
Valiant? What're you doin' here?
I Just thought I'd drop by and show you a photograph.
I've already seen your photographs.
Yeah, but I enlarged this one. Thought you might be interested.
Maroon? Whaddaya want?
Have you got the will?
Maybe. Why?
Meet me at my studio at nine o'clock. If you've got the will maybe we can stop this thing.
Stop what?
Valiant! You surprised me.
That was the idea.
You're not too good at this, are you, R.K.?
No... I'm not. I'm a cartoon maker, not a murderer.
Well, everybody needs a hobby.
No, you gotta understand, Valiant, I had nothin' to do with Acme gettin' killed. I just wanted to sell my studio. But they wouldn't buy my property unless Acme would sell his. And he wouldn't. So I was gonna blackmail Acme with pictures of him and the rabbit's wife.
You got the will in there, don't ya?
No, I don't.
You tricked me, damn you!
Take it easy.
There's no time to take it easy! You don't realize the diabolical mind we're dealing with!
Tell me you didn't do a snoop job for a Toon named Roger the Rabbit.
That's what you woke me up for?
Now what?
Just haven't been this close to Toontown for awhile.
They say the rabbit got the safe idea from a cartoon he was makin' the other day.
What a gasser.
Wait here...
Where'd this gargoyle come from anyway?
No one knows. He bought the election a few years back. He's been rulin' Toontown ever since.
What's with the dip?
That's how he gets rid of the troublemakers. It's a combination of acetone, turpentine and paint remover. He calls it the... Final Solution.
What the hell is that?
Doom.
Jesus Christ... <u>that</u> was the Judge?
Last week some heavy breather wanted one of my nylons as a souvenir. Maybe that's what he was after?
Look, doll, if I wanted underwear, I woulda broken into Frederick's of Hollywood. I was lookin' for Marvin Acme's will.
Hello, Mr. Valiant. I rang the doorbell, but I guess you couldn't hear it.
That's because I don't have a doorbell.
Oh... well, I... I just had to see you.
Okay, you've seen me. Now give me a towel.
Come on, lady, haven't you ever seen a mole before?
Toons aren't given imperfections.
No? I guess we're not counting lying, stealing and murder.
You've got the wrong idea about me. I'a a pawn in this just like poor Roger. Can you help me find him? I'll pay you anything.
Yeah, I'll bet you would. You gotta have the rabbit to make the scam work.
No, no, no... I love my husband.
Oh, sure. I can just feature you standin' outside your little hutch, holdin' a carrot cake waitin' for hubby to come home.
Oh, please don't make fun of me, Mr, Valiant. You don't know how hard it is being a woman looking the way I do.
Yeah, well, you don't know how hard it is bein' a man looking at a woman looking the way you do.
I'm not bad, I'm just drawn that way.
I'm not complainin'. But give me credit. I'm the guy who took the pictures of you and Acme playin' pattycake, remember?
So altruistic.
It's the truth. Why won't you believe it?
Cause I don't take Acme Dumb Pills. I don't know what you're up to, lady, but I'm gonna nail you for the Acme murder.
If I'm as bad as you think, what's stopping me from just killing you right now?
You shot Roger.
That's not Roger. It's one of Doom's men. He killed R.K. Maroon.
Lady, I guess I had you pegged wrong.
Don't worry, you're not the first. We better get out of here.
It was Doom who killed Acme, you know?
Why didn't you tell me?
I didn't know who I could trust.
We're even. By the way, I did find your husband.
Where is he?
He's right here in the...
How did you get onto Doom?
Marvin told me. Doom was after his land. Ne was afraid. That's why he brought me his will.
So where is it?
When I opened up the blue envelope, all that was inside was a blank piece of paper.
A joker to the end.
Looks like our goose is cooked, our hash is slung, our fait is accompli...
Lemme guess where you got that from. Tell me somethin', what'd you ever see in that guy anyway?
He made me laugh.
Hold on a second.
Eddie, come on.
Here's one for the books... a Toon wearin' human clothes.
Earl... it's me, Valiant.
Eddie? Jesus, what happened?
Toon cops worked me over.
Boy, I'll say. They gave you a real ToonaRoo.
What am I, Earl?
You're a pig... a happygolucky pig.
No...
Does it hurt?
Not much. It's hard to talk.
Uh, Eddie, do me a favor. Could you sit in the back so you won't cause as much of a commotion.
He's not my client. I was workin' for R.K. Maroon.
Yes, we talked to Mr. Maroon. He told us the rabbit became quite agitated when you showed him the pictures, and said nothing would stand in the way of him getting his wife back. Is that true?
Hey, pal, do I look like a stenographer?
Men? They look more like weasles to me.
Yes, I find that weasles have a special gift for the work. The rabbit didn't contact you by any chance, did he?
Why would he contact me? I just took some lousy pictures.
So you wouldn't have any idea where he might be?
Have you tried Walla Walla? Kokomo's very nice this time of year.
Being caught breaking and entering is not very good advertising for a detective. What were you looking for, Mr. Valiant?
Ask her...
Marvin Acme had no will. I should know, the probate is in my court.
He had a will, all right. She took it off Acme the night she and R.K. Maroon knocked him off. Then she set up her loving husband to take the fall.
They must've taken it off me.
They?
The other people who were in here lookin' for the will. I woulda caught 'em if Cheetah here hadn't interrupted me.
Take it easy, Bongo. We'll handle Mr. Valiant our own way... downtown.
Downtown? Fine. Get a hold of Santino, I'd be more than glad to talk to him.
Oh, not <u>that</u> downtown. <u>Toon</u>town.
You're not takin' me to downtown <u>Toon</u>town?
Indeed we are. We'll continue the interrogation there.
I ain't tellin' you nothin'! Get me Santino.
You're a very stubborn man, Mr. Valiant. Very pigheaded. Boys, show Mr. Valiant how we handle pigheaded men at the Toontown station...
I don't think it's gonna matter. Sorry, pal, I tried.
Yes, and for that you're charged with aiding and abetting. But we'll let Santino handle that.
Well, why not? I'm feeling magnanimous tonight. The successful conclusion of this case draws the curtain on my career as a jurist. I'm retiring to take a new role in the private sector.
Yeah? Well, don't expect the Toons to give you a gold watch.
These roads can be very treacherous at night, especially in a maniacal Toon vehicle.
The pot's callin' the kettle maniacal.
I've had enough of your insolence! Put him in my car. I think they'll enjoy attending our ribbon cutting at the Acme factory.
No matter. I don't expect the will to show up in the next fifteen minutes. By then Cloverleaf will own Toontown quite legally.
So you're Cloverleaf?
No one person is Cloverleaf. We're a vast company with diverse interests... gasoline, tires, automobiles.
Come on, Doom. What would a company like that want with Toontown?
It wasn't Toontown they wanted. It was my idea of how to put the land to better use.
Don't you think anyone's gonna notice that Toontown's gone?
They won't care. Who's going to miss some ridiculous talking mice when they can have the future?
Right here where we're standing, will be the cornerstone of my idea... the cloverleaf  an elegant cement structure that intertwines freeways.
What the hell's a freeway?
A freeway, Mr. Valiant, is eight lanes of asphalt running uninterrupted from L.A. to Pasadena. Pasadena to Hollywood. Hollywood to Santa Monica. Someday everyone will be in cars driving happily, nonstop from one end of the L.A. Basin to another.
That's what this is all about? Tell me, who's gonna use your lousy freeway? We got the Red Cars, the best public transportation in the country.
Not for long. We're retiring the Red Cars. People will drive, Mr. Valiant, because they'll have to. And when they drive, they'll have to buy our cars, our tires, our gasoline.
Holy shit, he's a Toon!
Surprised?
Not really. Only a Toon could think of something as goofy as that freeway idea.
You?
That's right, me.
So, makin' dame jokes, huh, Eddie? Well, lemme remind ya pal, it was a <u>dame</u> who took a hundred bucks out of the till so your landlord would't throw you out of your dump. And it was a <u>dame</u> who trusted you for the money when no one else in town would. And it's a <u>dame</u> who's tired of waitin' for you to straighten yourself out and get a job!
Would this be the same dame who's going to feel awfully foolish when she finds out I've got her money.
This is fifty bucks. I need seventyfive before they check the books tomorrow.
You'll have it in the morning. Now be a sport and lemme have twenty bucks to put in my pocket.
Is this paper even good?
Check the scrawl.
R.K. Maroon.
Hey, Eddie, looks like you really stepped in it this time.
What are you complaining about? Here's your fifty bucks.
A new outfit bought the Red Car. Some big company called Cloverleaf Industries.
No kiddin'? Bought the Red Cars, huh?
Bastards put him on notice.
Do you think the rabbit did it?
I don't wanna think. I wanna drink.
Yeah, Eddie, it's not like you got an ad in the Yellow Pages.
Thanks for the vote of confidence.
The papers said the safe door was opened, Eddie.
Stick to stuffin' the olives, willya, Dolores?
So you're not even gonna bother to find out if the rabbit's gettin' framed?
He's a Toon... who cares?
Jesus, Eddie, is this who I think it is?
Dolores, meet Roger Rabbit.
He's a riot.
Oh, yeah? Well, you're not handcuffed to him. Anybody in the back room?
It's all yours.
So you decided to help him after all?
I oughta have my head examined. Will you hold still?
Can you get him out of it, Eddie?
If I can find whoever wanted to kill Acme bad enough to get this.
So what's the scam, Eddie?
Maybe Baby Herman was right. Somebody wants Acme's property. Cack the old man, pin it on Roger, and destroy the will.
Maybe they just took it out of his pocket.
Then why'd they bother to crack the safe? You can drop a Mosler 90 from Mount Baldy and it won't open.
Eddie, you still got it. Hey, tomorrow maybe I'll go down to probate court and see who's sniffin' around Acme's estate?
Yeah, do that. I'm gonna go rattle Maroon's cage.
What was <u>that</u>?
<u>That</u> was the rabbit's wife.
The rabbit's wife? Wanna tell me what she was doin' with her arms around you?
Probably lookin' for a good place to stick a knife.
I just stopped by to tell you that I checked out the Acme probate.
Maroon, right?
Nope. It's that Cloverleaf outfit again.
What the hell would they want with a gag factory?
Got me. But unless the will shows up by Friday midnight, it's theirs.
What's that comin' from the bar?
Sounds like singin'.
Oh, no...
I was hopin' you'd be there. Maroon's called here about four times. He says he's gotta talk to you tonight. He says he can help you.
I'll bet.
Are you gonna call him, Eddie?
What've I got to lose? You okay, Dolores?
Yeah... they closed me down for a coupla weeks.
That'll work out just fine. When this thing is over, I'll take you to Catalina. How does that sound?
Familiar. Be careful, Eddie.
What's this, Roger?
A tweeting bird?
That's right, a tweeting bird. But what does the script say? 'Rabbit gets conked. Rabbit sees <u>stars</u>!' Not birds, stars!
Please, Raoul. I can give you stars, I know I can. Just drop the safe on my head one more time.
I've already dropped it on you twentythree times.
Don't worry about me. I can take it.
I'm not worried about you. I'm worried about the safe.
Gee, it's swell to see you, Eddie. We miss you in Toontown.
Wish I could say the same. What're you doin' here, Betty?
Work's been slow for me since the cartoons went to color. But I still got it, Eddie... 'Boop boop bedoop'.
Yeah, you still got it, Betty. Who's Mr. Jocularity?
That's Marvin Acme, the gag king.
Shoulda guessed.
He comes here every night to see Jessica Rabbit.
Big on the musical comedy, huh?
Sounds like you ve never seen her, Eddie.
Make it dry. Baby doesn't like to be wet. You're Valiant, right? The name's Baby Herman.
I know who you are. Kinda out of your neighborhood, aren't you?
Yeah, I had to go slummin'. See, a friend of mine's bein' framed.
You mean the rabbit? They got him cold.
You don't believe that. I mean. the guy's an idiot, a moron, a complete fool... but he'd never kill anyone. I know the guy.
My problem is I come here to drink in peace. So if you don't mind...
C'mon, Valiant, doesn't this whole thing smell a bit funny to you? I mean, no offense, but how did a muckymuck like R.K. Maroon find you in the first place?
And another thing, the paper said no will was found. But every Toon knows Acme had a will and, in it he promised to leave Toontown to the Toons.
So where is it then?
Somebody took it from him. That's what this whole thing's about.
My hunch is it was Maroon. He always was after Acme's property.
Yeah? Does he wear pants this color?
We don't serve formula. Snookums.
You serve martinis, doncha?
Yeah...
Oh, a ladies man, huh?
My problem is I got a fiftyyearold lust and a threeyearold dinkie.
No. But neither does Roger. That's Diablo Red. Roger's pants are Sunrise Orange.
Well, I'll be...
So what's your next move, Valiant?
This is your largest payday ever  How do you feel about it?
Feel? I dunno... Happy.
How will you fight Apollo Creed?
Creed's great, ain't he... I'll do what I can.
Is it true the most you've ever made in a prizefight is five hundred dollars?
Four hundred  But that was a long time ago.
And now your payday will be one hundred and fifty thousand dollars. Any comment?
Listen, I wanna say hi to my girlfriend  Yo, Adrian!
So much has happened lately  Has it changed your life style much?
...People talk to me more.
How're you preparing for this Bicentennial bout?
We can cut that out later. Apollo Creed says he'll let you stay three rounds before he puts you away.
Apollo's a great fighter.
Do you feel you have a chance?
Maybe 
I'll tear his head off.
Do you have anything derogatory to say about the Champion?
Derogatory? Yeah, he's great.
Yo, Paulie.
Yo, Rocky  Look at this mirror. I'd like to kill the friggin' moron who broke this mirror.
Yo, Paulie.
What?
Your sister's givin' me the shoulder.
Forget her. You could do better than my sister.
Every mornin', every night I pass by  I smile. I say jokes. Nothin'. She looks at me.
Looks, huh?
Yeah, like I was a plate of leftovers  Somethin' wrong with my face  Whatta I need, a Caddy to connect with ya sister?
My sister's a friggin' loser.
Hey 
Sometimes she gets me so crazy, I'd like to split her head with a razor.
Don't get mental, man.
Ya caught me in a bad mood.
Ya always in a bad mood 
...Adrian ain't sharp.
She's a loser  She don't enjoy life  She reads  Brainy  Pushin' thirty friggin' years old! She's gonna die alone if she don't wise up.
I'm thirty myself.
An' you're dyin' alone, too.
I don't see no crowd around you, neither.
I wanna kill the friggin' moron who broke the mirror.
Let's get outta this stink.
The girl's dryin' up! She's gotta live a little before her body dries up!! You're a pal, Rock  How 'bout yo' talk to her? Y'know, it's Thanksgivin' tomorrow.
...Sure.
Tomorrow you come for some bird, right?
Absolutely...
I usta be deadly at halfball.
I hate the friggin' game... I'd like to talk some business.
What kinda business?
Look at my hands  See how the joints are swollen.
Inflamed joints  Walkin' in an' out of a freezer carryin' meat plays hell on the joints.
Maybe ya should see a doctor.
I don't need a doctor, I need a different job.
Maybe another job is the best thing.
Do me a favor  Talk to Gazzo. Tell him I'm a friend an' would do a good job... Tell him I ain't bothered by nothin' an' would be a great collector... Bustin' bones don't bother me  Tell him I'm a good worker.
Gazzo's gotta come to you.
I'm askin' ya to go to him  As a favor.
Gazzo's gotta come to you  Hey, Paulie, it's a bad job  Do what you do now.
Ya sister knows I'm comin'?
Yeah, sure  She's very excited.
!! Ya want the bird, go out in the alley an' eat the bird  I want ya outta the house  Enjoy ya friggin' life... Ya hungry, Rock?
Maybe ya better forget it.
Forget nothin'  Here, talk to my sister, tell 'er somethin' nice.
...Maybe I better forget it.
Try again, c'mon, try again.
What's ya sister like to do?
Ice skate.
I didn't want no turkey anyway.
Why?
Don't it matter none he's makin' ya out a fool?  I'd break his lips.
It don't matter.
He's takin' cheap shots.
It don't bother me none.
Yo, Rock  now ya'll be lookin' for people to help, right?
Help what?
Y'know, to help keep ya livin' clean.
I'll do okay.
Ya gotta have a guy help ya exercise, mebbe somebody to be standin' by with a towel or run errands, y'know.
Hey, who cared about me yesterday, huh? Nobody  I think I'm gonna train myself.
Without havin' good people around, ya won't have such a good chance.
How ya feelin'?
...Tight.
I got whiskey here.
...No.
If ya don't pay Gazzo, ya end up hangin' on the hook, right?
Gazzo's a good man.
How 'bout you talk to 'em about me? Please do me that favor.
Keep this job, ya eat better.
Y'know, d'ya think you an' my sister  Ah, doin' good together?
Whatta you think?
Ain't sure, what's the story?
What?
The story  what's happenin'?
Ya really like her?
Sure I like her.
What's the attraction? I don't see it?
I dunno  she fills gaps.
What gaps?
She got gaps. I got gaps  together we fill the gaps.
You ballin' her?
Don't talk dirty 'bout ya sister.
C'mon, ya screwin' her?
Yo, Rock. I made a few phone calls an' thanks to me ya goin' to be a big man  Thatta dog?
Whatta these guys want?
To see ya train.
Yo, what's with you?  It was suppose to be private.
I thought I was doin' ya a favor  C'mon inside  Y'know, my sister really likes ya.
Outta my house I want ya!!
...It's cold outside, Paulie.
...I can't haul meat no more.
What can I do about it?
Christ, I been beggin' ya for a break until I'm sick inside.
What break? Huh? What break! Who am I to give breaks! I'm a fighter, you haul meat. You do what you do an' I do what I do best  that's it  that's life, man!
Startin' with the bad jokes early today, huh.
Inventin' jokes ain't easy.
How's Butkus this mornin'?
Ain't had time to check 'em.
...What kinda dog is this again?
Bullmastiff.
The owner was suppose to pick him up three weeks ago.
We're not responsible for animals left over thirty days  We board it ain't a animal shelter, Y'know... Adrian, I want you to clean all those cat cages downstairs, they're a mess.
Yo, Mike  What's happenin' here?
It ain't your locker no more.
Whatta ya talkin' about it ain't my locker no more?
Listen, I'm with you  But ya gotta talk to Mickey  I put ya stuff in the bag over there.
You were ready to bite that guy's face.
Yeah  See the fight last night? Apollo Creed beat that English guy bad.
Creed's great.
Hey, Rock  What happened?
'Bout what?
Ya sappin' his strength  He's losin' steam.
He ain't losin' nothin'.
No more, ya wanna lose an eye? No more.
Open my eyes  Please, open my eyes!
I don't care what nobody says, this bum Creed woulda never made it in the Thirties 
Hey, how ya feelin', Mickey?
...What?
I said, how ya feelin'?
Do you see me talkin'? Huh?
Yeah.
Then stand there an' wait till I'm done  Creed's good, yeah, he's real fine but I gotta boy, y'know Big Dipper, who's got the stuff it takes to be a champ  He's mean, quick, an' big  What more d'ya need? Okay, go to work... Hey  Yeah  Whatta ya want?
I was talkin' with ya man, Mike.  Hey, how come I been put outta my locker?
Dipper needed it.
Dipper's a climber  You're a tomato.
...Tomato?
Facts is facts. I run a business here  I'm cleanin' house 
How old are ya?
...What?
How old?
Come July, twentyfive.
More like thirty.
Twentyfive, thirty  What's the difference?  It took me two months to learn the combination of that locker.
The legs must be goin'.
Yeah, they're goin',  that's nature... That was my locker for six years.
...Did ya fight last night?
Yeah 
Did ya win?
Yeah, Kayo.
...Who'd ya fight?
Spider Rice.
Rice is a bum.
You think everybody I fight is a bum.
Ain't they?
Ya want the truth  Ya got heart, but ya fight like an ape  The only thing special about you is ya never got ya nose broke  keep ya nose pretty  what's left of ya brain an' retire.
Listen, I'm gonna take a steam  Did good last night  Shoulda seen it.
Hey, ever think about retirin'?
...No.
Think about it.
Yeah, sure.
Did ya get the message, kid?
Message  What message?
A Rep from Miles Jergens' Promotions was lookin' for ya  They need sparrin' partners for Creed.
Ya puttin' me on?
Here's the card?
When was they here?
'Bout an hour ago.
Probably lookin' for sparrin' partners.
...I said that before.
I seen the light. I figure somebody was home.
Hey, Mickey  Whatta ya doin' here? Here, sit down.
Best seat in the house  Hey, Mick, this is too much.
How do you mean?
I'm usta seein' ya at the gym, but seein' ya here, in my house, it's kinda outta joint.
Listen, Rock, you're a very lucky guy.
Yeah.
What's happened is freak luck.
Freak luck for sure.
Look at all them other fighters. Real good boys. Good records. Colorful. Fight their hearts out for peanuts  But who cared? Nobody. They got it shoved in their back door. Nobody ever give them a shot at the title...
Freak luck is a strange thing.
Whatta' those?
Turtles  domestic turtles.
I'm here tellin' ya to be very smart with this shot. Like the Bible sez, ya don't get no second chance.
Fifty years, huh.
Fifty years. The rep is known around Philly, an' a good rep can't be bought, but I don't have to tell you that.
How 'bout a glass of water?
Rocky, d'ya know what I done?
...What?
I done it all. I've done an' seen everything'. Believe what I'm tellin' ya  Ya shoulda seen the night in Brooklyn, I smacked 'Ginny' Russo outta the ring, September 14, 1923  same night Firpo knocked Dempsey outta the ring. But who got the Press? He did. He had a manager  September 14, 1923.
Ya got a good mind for dates.
Nobody ever said that  There's his picture.
Yeah, ya kinda remind me of the Rock. Ya move like 'im.
Really think so?
Ya got heart.
Heart, but I ain't got no Tocker.
Respect, I always dished ya respect.
...Ya gave Dipper my locker.
I'm sorry, I  I made a mistake. Kid, I'm askin' man to man. I wanna be ya manager.
The fight's set  I don't need a manager.
Look, you can't buy what I know. Ya can't. I've seen it all! I got pain an' I got experience.
I got pain an' experience too.
Please, kid.
Whatever I got, I always got on the slide. This shot's no different. I didn't earn nothin'  I got it on the slide... I needed ya help about ten years ago when I was startin', but ya never helped me none.
If ya was wantin' my help, why didn't ya ask? Just ask.
I asked, but ya never helped nothin'!  Like the Bible sez, ya don't get no second chance.
Rocky, I'm seventysix years old. Maybe you can be the winner I never was  your shot is my last shot!
Tie it to both ankles  Leave two feet slack.
I never had good footwork.
What cha say, Benny  Meet 'The Rock.' This is our cutman, Benny Stein.
Yo, Benny.
Check the eyes, Ben.
Don't you care what the people will say?
...I'm doin' it for a friend.
Whatta you get outta this?
I get the robe an' Paulie gets three grand.
...Shrewd.
Don't let 'im get you tight.
Whatta ya think that outfit cost?
God bless ya, Rock.
Thanks, Mick  I'm gonna try.
How am I doin'?
Real good.
See how fast he is  damn!
Breathe deep  Keep ya chin down!! Use the legs and drive through 'im. Attack  Attack  Attack!
Ya nose is broke.
Damn! How's it look?
Can't hardly tell. Don't swallow the blood  Go for his ribs. Don't let 'im breathe.
...The guy's great.
Why don't ya tell 'im you're a fan!
How you holdin' up, kid?
Fine... That guy's great.
Gimme the water! Ya gettin' tagged with his right. I think you should feint left and high hook 'im  Benny, check the eyes! Can ya see?
See what?
Wanna keep goin'?
Would you keep goin'?
...Yeah.
How I look out there, Mick?
Great, kid, great.
I don't care what they say, you're a winner.
Yo, can I have my locker back?
...Screw you.
What'd you say?
...Screw you, yoyo.
Did these guys teach you to talk dirty? Huh?
Hey 
What?
Stuff it, man!
Don't you never say that   You guys talk like that in front of a little girl  You guys are scum.
How come ya wanna hang out with those guys? They teach ya bad things.
I like 'em. If you don't you can f 
Hey! When I was your age, there was only one girl who talked like that in the whole neighborhood.
...Yeah.
Make your teeth yella 
I like yella teeth.
Makes your breath like garbage.
Maybe I like garbage.
Nobody likes garbage  Anyway, this girl with the dirty mouth wasn't bad lookin', but the guys wouldn't take her out for any serious datin'.
Why?
'Cause that's the way guys are  They laugh when ya talk dirty. They think ya cute for a while, but then ya getta reputation an' watch out. Nobody's ever gonna take ya serious. Ya get no respect... I gotta use a bad word  Whore. You'll end up maybe becomin' a whore.
C'mon, Rocky. I'm twelve.
That doesn't matter  You don't really have to be a whore, just act like one an' that's it.
What?
Yo, a bad reputation  Twenty years from now people will say 'D'you remember Marie?' 'No, who was she?' 'She was that little whore who hung out at the Atomic Hoagie Shop.' 'Oh, now I remember!'... See, they don't remember you, they remember the rep.
Listen, I hope ya don't 
I won't.
What was I gonna say?
Ya hope I don't keep acting like a whore or I'll turn into one, right?
Ya, somethin' like that.
Goodnight, Rocky.
'Night, Marie.
Hello, Mr. Balboa  I'm Miles Jergens  Please, have a seat.
...Thanks.
Mr. Balboa 
Rocky.
Rocky, do you have any representation? A manager?
No  Just me.
Rocky, would you be interested in 
Sparrin'?
Excuse me.
I know ya need sparrin' partners  I'm very available.
I'm sure you are.
Absolutely  Sparrin' with the Champ would be an honor  y'know what?
What?
I wouldn't take no cheap shots. I'd be a good sparrin' partner.
Rocky, would you be interested in fighting Apollo Creed for the Championship?
...Like I said, I'd make a boss sparrin' mate.
Did you hear what I said?
Sure, an' I'm smart enough to know that no sparrin' partner should take cheap shots at the Champ. He's just there to help condition the man.
Not spar, I'm asking whether you would be interested in fighting Creed for the championship.
He only had a hundred an' thirty.  I think he's good for the rest next week, Mr. Gazzo.
Sure, Rocky, Bob's good for it...
Tomorrow collect from Del Rio  He's late three weeks. How'd you do last night?
...Fine.
Yo Rock. Did I give you a job this mornin? How come ya didn't break this guy's thumb like I asked ya? When ya don't do what ya are told, it makes me look bad, kid.
I figure if I break the thumb this guy gets thrown outta his job and can't pay nothin' no more.
It don't matter. It's my reputation. These guys think they can get off light. It's bad for my reputation  It's bad for business. See ya killer.
Next Wednesday I grab a grand from Snyder. An' Thursday two yards from Cappoli, okay?
No, two yards from Snyder, an' a grand from Cappoli.
Ya sure?
Hey, screw ya brain on right. Now, who's this girl you're going out with tonight?
How'd you know?
You think I don't hear things?
Paulie's sister.
Buddy's in a bad mood  prostate problems.
He's always in a bad mood. Count ya blessin's. Ya a healthy person  ya legs work  ya hands work 
Buddy's got a thing against ya, Rock. Some people just hate for no reason, y'know.
Yeah.
Here's fifty bucks  You an' the girl have a nice time.
Thanks, Mr. Gazzo.
Y'know I won't be able to work for ya no more.
Hey  if a good man can make a better life, let him make it.
I feel bad about walkin'.
Take your shot, kid  You got money for trainin' expenses?
A few bucks.
Here's five hundred  Put it in your glove.
Do I have to pay juice?
Does Santa Claus charge juice? Merry Christmas  Now, how's about my present, ya gonna win?
Gonna try.
Listen, kid, I'm with ya. Ya know, I'm with ya  Italian, we're blood. You kill this rug  We Guinneas gotta show these AfroAmericans where it's at. Give it your best shot cause I want ya to prove to these bums on the corner that my man can't be beat by this rug... Ya got any action on the side.
No action.
Ya gettin 150 grand killer. Ya got any plans for it? Whatta ya think? Ya like to put it on the street, make it work for ya?
I'm gonna do somethin with it.
Sure, you do what ya want. Stay away from the stock market.
Black market?
Same thing. Ya know, Rock, remember when we was kids, we fought together. An' I wasn't well an' ya had to beat up that Irish kid  what's his name?  Gallager  I bought a suit and became a businessman. You put on gloves. An' I remember Mama almost cried, may she rest in peace  an' our ol' man who said ya had no brains I'd like to lay hands on that bastard. You ain't never had any luck. Even when I owned you in '66 you never had luck. But now I think you might be gettin' some luck kid. Whatta you think?
Yo, you gonna show, Tony?
Where else am I gonna go. Bet three grand on Rocky.
Don't hit the face! Not the face!!
Mr. Gazzo wants the two hundred now!
Honest to God I'm broke  Gimme a break.
Mr. Gazzo says I should get two hundred or break the thumb.
Please, I need my hands to work  Christ, don't bust my thumbs.
What's ya name again?
Bob.
Look, Bob, if ya wanna dance, ya gotta pay the band  If ya borrow, ya gotta pay the man... Me, I ain't emotionally involved.
A hundred an' thirty.
That's it, I'm broke.
That's it?  Completely?
That's it.
What about for food an' stuff?
You have my food in ya hand.
...The juice is climbin' every week.
I know the juice is climbin'  I been workin' six months just to pay the damn interest.
Ya still light seventy.
Waits!  Be smart. Ya don't have to break nothin'  Here, take my coat, it's worth fiftysixty dollars. It's yours.
I say ya nothin'!
What's happenin' here?
I'm happenin'! This pig is takin' my shot  I iz a contender. He's nothin'.
You can forget about sparring, kid.
Yo' know I iz the best man here! Yo' said so yoself!
Why let Rocky here take a chance on cuttin' or breakin' a hand?  Take a shower, Dipper.
Don't mouth me, old man, I'll knock yo' out too. C'mon, wop, spar me, let everybody see who's got the heat around here.
Yo' yellow, old man.
Not yellow, cautious. See, it's very easy for a fighter to accidentally hurt 
We would like to welcome our viewing audience to the Grand World Championship Bicentennial Heavyweight Fight  the first major event of the Bicentennial Year... A point of interest is that the fight is being beamed to more than seven hundred and fifty million fans in theatres in nearly every corner of the world. I would like to welcome an old friend, and cocommentator for this evening's event  Jimmy Michaels.
Thank you, Bob. The electricity is everywhere tonight. Rocky Balboa, a fiftytoone underdog, is living a Cinderella story which has captured peoples' imaginations all over the world  to quote a popular sports magazine, 'The fighting style should be 'The Caveman Against the Cavalier.' From the increase in sound it appears the challenger is now approaching the ring... His record is fortyfour wins, twenty losses and thirtyeight knockouts.
I only wonder if this man has the skill to go past three rounds  Vegas odds say, 'no.'
You could go deaf with the noise  it undoubtedly means Champion Apollo Creed is heading towards the ring 
Am I seeing right? Creed is approaching the ring in a boat. Is he supposed to be George Washington? Obviously so.
It's been confirmed that it is definitely an impersonation of George Washington  a great way to start 1976 off.
I agree.
The Champ stings the slower challenger with jabs at will  Balboa blocks eighty percent of the blows with his face  Creed doesn't look the best he's ever been but is moving smoothly  Creed snaps out a triple combination that backs Balboa into a corner  oh, a solid hook by Creed, a master of fistmen.
The Champion is smiling and toying with the man  trying to give the fans their money's worth and make a show of it with the badly outclasses challenger  Another left to right combination. I feel sorry for 
Creed is down!!!
If you had asked anyone who knows boxing, they never would've predicted a first round knockdown and the second round punishment to the body of the Champion... Most fighters will tell you, receiving a good body punch is the next worst thing to dying.
Round three ready to start and should be interesting to see if Creed can put the challenger away  there goes the bell.
Apollo almost sprints out of his corner  feints and throws a pair of leftright combinations. Balboa drops beneath a left upper cut and lands a very solid shot on Creed's temple  not much movement from Balboa, duck a left, a right, another left and explodes with a right hook to the temple  I mean explodes. The Champ backs off.
There's no way Apollo expected this kind of hitting power.
No way  but the brilliant ability of the Champion to master situations like this is one of his most outstanding traits  Creed tosses a perfect right hand that rocks Rocky. Creed on the offensive  Balboa takes the punishment and counters with a left flush over the heart... that hurt.
Without a doubt this is the most punishing brawl I have ever seen  The ringside audience is spotted with blood. This fight should have been stopped rounds ago but Rocky Balboa refuses to fall 
Not only has he refused to fall, but he has beaten the Champion's body without mercy and the bout has become a vicious slugfest.
Hey, whatta ya doin' here  we're closed... Yo, we're closed!
Are ya closed to the General Public or to just everybody.
Hey, the rink is empty 'cause we're closed  ya ain't allowed in here so do me a favor an' not stay here.
Wait here, gotta smooth this guy out.
Yo, pal, what's with you  The place ain't operatin'.
Listen, I gotta problem. This girl ain't feelin' well, y'know  The doctor says she should exercise, y'know once in awhile an' ice skatin' is the best thing 
This a con?
Look at her, ya can see she ain't feelin' good  needs a few minutes exercise 
Few minutes?
...Ten minutes.
Ten minutes for ten dollars.
...Yeah, give 'er the Blades.
Nine minutes!
Hey, I ain't cryin'... I still fight. Kinda do it like a hobby. See I'm a natural southpaw an' most pugs won't fight a southpaw 'cause we mess up their timin' an' look awkward  Southpaw means lefthanded... But I guess in the long run things probably worked out for the best, right?
Seven minutes!
It ain't your fault  I originally done it in the Baby Crenshaw fight. That's me fightin' Big Baby Crenshaw  Big Baby was the size of an airplane an' I broke my hands on his head  I lost, but it's a nice picture, don't ya think?
Six!
How 'bout some Cokes?
Cost ya a buck.
This guy is beautiful  get the Cokes.
Here  Three minutes.
Yeah  My ol' man who was never the sharpest told me  I weren't born with much brain so I better use my body.
That's ten bucks.
I must be goin' deaf 'cause I thought ya said, 'ten cents.'
...How 'bout for the Cokes?
Charge it.
Yo, Rocks, buy us sum wine, man.
...No wine  Bad for ya' brain.
C'mon, man, it's cold, man.
No wine.
Yo, Rock, gimme a dollar.
Why?
'Cause we dig ya, man  Gimme a dollar.
No dollar.
Hey, give Rocky a dime.
...That's an old one.
Buy us some Thunderbird, man.
We'll kill you, man  We gotta gun.
Pull heat on me?  I'll dent ya face!
Did ya get the license number?
Of wa?
...Of the truck that run over your face.
Hear she's retarded.
She ain't retarded, she's shy.
Take 'er to the zoo  Retards like the zoo.
Does that bum have to say that?
I don't like ya face.
Don't like yours neither.
Kiss my ass.
Move your shoulders down.
How was the flight, Champ?
Very high an' very fast.
Apollo, how would you rate this last British challenger, Henry Wilcoxson?
He was big, an' very nasty so I destroyed him in a hurry  Now I'm gettin' ready for Mac Lee Green next month.
You're referring to the much publicized bicentennial fight?
That's right  It's gonna be the greatest sportin' event in this country's history  A gala occurrence!
Still to be held in Philadelphia?
The Bicentennial Heavyweight Championship of the World is gonna be held in the only place it can be held  Philadelphia!  the nation's cradle  January First  the first major event of our two hundredth year.
Where're you off to now?
Me an' my wife are goin' home 'cause we miss our children an' can't go no more time without seein' them.
Any quick advice for young boxing hopefuls?
...Stay in school an' use your brains, dig  Be a lawyer, be a doctor, carry a leather briefcase an' forget about sports!! Sports can only make ya grunt an' smell  Be a thinker not a stinker!!
Damn.
I suppose we could cancel the fight indefinitely if you are set on fighting Green.
You best find me another ranked contender an' I mean in a flash, man!
I contacted Ernie Roman's manager, he's fighting in France the same week.
Then gimme Buddy Shaw  He's ranked fifth.
Shaw's fighting in South America  Why not postpone the bout until July Fourth?
Shape, nothin'  They're afraid. They know everybody in the world's gonna see this fight an' none of them gotta prayer of beating me so they're makin' excuses so they don't have to be the chump that's gonna be whipped in front of the whole civilized world!!
Apollo, I'm sure there's a way to salvage this.
Now here's what's goin' down. Listen, 'cause I'm gonna say this but one time. On January first, the first day of the Bicentennial I'm gonna fight me a local poor underdog, dig? A snowwhite underdog. An' I'm gonna put his face on this poster with me, hear? An' I'll tell you why, 'cause I'm sentimental  An' all the people in the country all sentimental, man, an' they'd like nothin' better than me, Apollo Creed, to let some unknown get a shot at the greatest title in the world on this country's biggest birthday. Now that's the way I see it an' that's the way I want it!!
...It's very American.
No, man, it's very smart.
How 'bout this Billy Snow?
Fouls.
How 'bout this Big Chuck Smith?
Joe Zack is a good prospect  Exciting boy.
...Still don't feel no heat.
Exactly what are you looking for, Apollo?
...This man.
'The Italian Stallion'  He's my man.
Rocky Balboa  His record's poor 
Don't matter  That name. 'The Italian Stallion,' it's right on. Who discovered America? An Italian, right? So, man, what could be better than to get it on with one of his ancestors 
I do  Maybe what this fight needs is something new  a novelty.
You's the novelty, Champ!
Give my main man a raise!!
Too old, dull fighter. Bobby Judge is a good boy.
...I don't feel heat from the name.
He won't last one round.
Listen, I gonna carry this boy three rounds, then drop 'im like a bad habit.
I don't like you messin' with southpaws  They do everything wrong.
Southpaw, nuthin'  I'll drop 'im in three  'Apollo Creed meets the Italian Stallion.' Shhiii  Sounds like a damn monster movie!!
...That boy damn near broke my arm.
Sure  He can hit  Don't play no more  Stick an' move, hear?
I'll carry him 'till the third.
Don't play with this man, he's fightin' hard  Let 'em feel some real heat!
Man, I rearranged his face with that right  The people love what's happenin' tonight.
People nothin', you in a fight, my man,  ya best believe what you hear... Knock that boy out soon an' let's go home.
...That man's takin' his job too serious.
He's movin' to your left  don't let him no more  dance and stick, hear? Don't play  I know what ya feelin', but don't play.
He got lucky.
Luck! You fightin' a crazy man  but you got him hurt bad. More ice, now!
My side.
Get that doctor.
No doctor!
You're hurtin', man!
No doctor!... I'm feelin' good, bro!
Yo' bleedin' inside, man  Get that doctor.
One more round.
Don't kill yourself, man  Let the doctor stop the fight.
...Stop jivin'!
Cover the ribs  Look here, elbow down, tight  Tight  stand straight  you're the best, you're the best!
...Thanks.
...Paulie, why didn't you tell me you were bringing him home?! Look at me, I'm not ready for this.
Like it would make a difference if you were, right? This guy's a friend and now he's takin' ya out.
No... I can't!
Ya, ya goin' outta the bedroom an' I don't wanna know from nothin'.
Paulie, please 
Hey, I want ya out instamaticly.  I'm sicka lookin' at ya hangin' around like a friggin' spider  Go out  Live! Do, enjoy life.
...Like you?
Don't get wise with me. I want ya to stop bein' a loser.
I can't go out.
Why?
Paulie, it's Thanksgiving. I've gotta turkey in the oven.
Do me a favor  His lungs, punch 'em out.
Paul.
Oh, Rocky!
Christ.
You didn't!
Einstein flunked out of school... twice.
That so.
Roosevelt finished last in his class  Beethoven was deaf, an' Helen Keller was blind  I think Rocky has a good chance.
Nothin'! I want nothin' from you!!!
Paulie!
Shutup! I want nothin'  I ain't no charity case! Get outta my house!
It's not your house 
You ain't no friend no more  Go home! Outta my house I want ya!
Don't talk like that to him!
Get outta my life both of ya's.
...Paulie. Stop now!
I want 'im outta here  Don't think I'm good enough to work for Gazzo? That's what I think of bums like you an' Gazzo! You're goin' up an' don't care enough to throw Paulie some crumbs! I give ya meat, an' I give ya my sister, too!
Only a pig would say that!
You forget what I went through to give ya the best.
You gave me what?! Knots! You gave me knots in here every day  you made me scared of everything!
I always seen ya had the best, but did ya ever think of puttin' in a good word for me with this scumbag!
Don't do that again!
Get away from me  I could never even get married 'cause you couldn't live by yaself  ya'd die by yaself! So instead I put you two together  Did ya think of puttin' in a good word for me?  You owe me!
Owe you what?
You owe me an' are supposed to treat me good!
Good? Good, Paulie?! I've been treatin' you like a baby. Since I can't remember it's so long  I'm the only one who feeds you an' puts you in bed when ya can't stand up  and it's you that made me feel like a loser  That's what ya use to call me 'Loser'  What kind of name is that? So can ya blame me for not remembering to talk about you when I'm with Rocky  I don't owe you, Paulie, you owe me.
You busted?!
What?!
You a virgin?  Ya let 'im in ya pants, didn't ya! Ya pulled down ya pants an' let him have it, didn't ya!!
...How's the turtle food this week?
...Fine.
Me, I'm kinda aggravated.
...I'm sorry.
Ain't your fault  Here's the problem.
I smack 'em hard on the shell an' they get... What?
...I don't know.
Shellshocked!
Hey, how's my buddy doin'?  Nice dog  Well, I'll see ya later.
...Goodnight, Rocky.
It's Thanksgiving.
To you, to me it's Thursday.
Looks quiet, y'know.
I think it's closed.
I think mebbe we're early or somethin' 
...Aren't you skating?
Ain't skated since I was fifteen  That's when I started fightin'  gotta watch the ankles. Yeah, fightin' use to be tops with me, but no more. All I wanted to prove was I weren't no bum  That I had the stuff to make a good pro.
And you never got the chance?
But you never had a chance to prove yourself.
Absolutely.
I just dislocated my finger.
Ohh!
Y'know how I got started in the fight racket?
By accident?
What's funny?
My mother told me just the opposite. She said, 'You weren't born with much of a body so you'd better develop your brain.'
Some people are very shy by nature.
...I suppose.
I would say you're very shy by nature.
...I suppose.
Some people think bein' shy is a disease, but it don't bother me.
It doesn't bother me either.
Then why did I bother bringin' it up? 'Cause I'm dumb, that's why... Y'know, I think we make a real sharp coupla coconuts  I'm dumb an' you're shy.
...It is just hard for me to understand why anybody wants to be a fighter.
Ya gotta be a little soft to wanna be a pug... It's a racket where ya' almost guaranteed to end up a bum.
I don't think you're a bum.
...I'm at least half a bum. Yeah, fightin' is a crazy racket. The roughest part is the mornin' after.
Morning after?
After a rough fight, ya' nothin' but a large wound. Sometimes I feel like callin' a taxi to drive me from my bed to the bathroom... Ya' eyes hurt, ya' ears hurt, ya' hair even hurts... But the thing I'm proud of is I been in over sixty fights an' never had a busted nose  Bent an' twisted an' bitten but never broke... That's rare.
Why do you do it if it hurts so bad?
...Guess.
'Cause you can't sing or dance?
Would ya like a glass of water?
...No thanks.
Here's the guys I was tellin' ya about  This is Cuff an' Link.
I sold them to you.
...Oh, yeah, I bought the whole kit  Yeah, ya sold me the turtles, the bowl, an' the mountain  I had to get rid of the mountain 'cause they kept fallin' off.
Do you have a phone?
I had it pulled. People callin' all the time. Who needs it  Who'd you wanna call?
I wanna let my brother know where I am.
D'you really wanna call?
Yes, I do.
You sure?
Yes.
Why?
I think he might be worried.
I'll call your brother.
What's the matter? Ya don't like the room?
It's fine.
It's only temporary.
It's not that 
What's the problem? You don't like me  Don't like the turtles  What is it?
I don't think I belong here.
It's okay.
No, I don't belong here.
It's all right  You're my guest.
...I've never been in a man's apartment before.
They're all the same.
I'm not sure I know you well enough  I don't think I'm comfortable.
Yo, I'm not comfortable either.
I should leave.
But I'm willin' to make the best of this uncomfortable situation.
Would ya take off your glasses?
What?
The glasses... Please.
...Tthank you.
Do me another favor?
...What?
Could ya take off that hat.
I always knew you was pretty.
Don't tease me.
How'd ya like hearin' ya name on TV?
I don't know  I was shocked. Why did you do that?
Ya puttin' me on, right?
Absolutely  What time should I expect you?
'Bout seven.
I'll be waiting.
Y'know how I said that stuff on television didn't bother me?
Yes.
It did.
Don't you open them anymore?
They either say, 'Kill the nigger' or 'Hope you die, Honky.'  What ya got in the bag?
Like?
Sharp  Real nice.
Really  You don't think they're overly feminine?
No... Sharp  You look great.
Adrian, you really look great, y'know  But I can't fool around durin' trainin'  makes the legs weak.
Don't want weak legs.
Can't fool around  You look very great.
 The legs.
Yeah... But I think weak legs ain't bad sometimes, y'know.
I thought it might be cute.
Ya right  Mebbe we best just hold hands  the shirt made me feel guilty, y'know.
...And he called the reporters 
Yeah... Threw my whole day off.
Don't be mad at him  He just wants to help.
Yo  I ain't mad. I'm just outta joint when reporters are around  They take cheap shots an' Paulie knows it.
...Are you going to say anything to him?
...What's to say? I dunno what he wants from me 
Wanna hear a dirty joke?
...Yes 
Rocky, do you realize everybody in this country knows your face, and after the fight everybody in the world is going to.
Yeah...
What was that you said about a pet shop?
...What?
What did you say about a pet shop?
I don't want ya cleanin' nobody else's cages no more.
Is everything all right?
I gotta go out for a while.
...Can't do it.
...What?
...I can't beat him.
Apollo?
Yeah, I can't beat him.
I been watchin' the movies  studyin'  He ain't weak nowhere.
What're we going to do?
...I dunno.
Oh, Rocky  you worked so hard.
It ain't so bad, 'cause I was a nothin' before 
Don't say that.
C'mon, it's true  But that don't bother me  I just wanna prove somethin'  I ain't no bum... It don't matter if I lose... Don't matter if he opens my head... The only thing I wanna do is go the distance  That's all. Nobody's ever gone fifteen rounds with Creed. If I go them fifteen rounds, an' that bell rings an' I'm still standin', I'm gonna know then I weren't just another bum from the neighborhood...
Creature of the night.
Creature of the night.
I thought you liked them. They liked you.
They didn't like me. They never liked me.
Our noble mission is almost completed my most beautiful sister, soon we will return to the moondrenched shores of our "androgenous" planet.
Ah  sweet Transexual  land of night  to sing and dance once more to your dark refrains. To take that step to the right...
But it's the pelvic thrust that really drives you insane.
And our World will do the Time Warp again.
I think you had better both come inside.
You're too kind.
Are you  giving a party?
No. You've arrived on a rather special night. It's one of the master's affairs.
Oh, lucky him.
The Master is not yet married. Nor do I think he ever will be. We are simply his servants.
Oh.
Who's Eddie?
The delivery boy.
And left from my dreaming Was a feeling Of unnameable dread.
That ain't no crime
My high is low. I'm dressed up With no place to go.
Oh, no no, no no.
Sha la la la That ain't no crime.
No no no, no no.
Sha la la la That ain't no crime  That ain't no crime.
Sha la la la That ain't no crime.
Oh no no no no.
Sha la la la That ain't no crime.
No no no no.
Sha la la la That ain't no crime. That ain't no crime.
Sha la la la That ain't no crime.
No no no no.
Sha la la la That ain't no crime.
No no no no.
Sha la la la That ain't no crime  That ain't no crime.
"Sweet Transvestite"
From Transexual Transylvania.
"Transylvania"
So come up to the Lab.
On the day I went away.
Goodbye
Was all I had to say
Now I
Want to come again and stay
Oh my, my,
Smile and that will mean I may
Feeling
Like I'm outside in the rain
Wheeling
Free to try and find a game
Dealing
Cards for sorrow, Cards for pain.
Well. I don't like men with...er, with too many, muscles.
I didn't make him for you
You beast, you monster, what have you done with Brad?
Nothing. Why, do you think I should?
You tricked me  I wouldn't have  I've never  never
I know. But it wasn't all bad was it? In fact, I think you found it quite pleasurable. Mmmmm so soft, so sensual.
Ssssh. Brad's probably asleep by now. Do you want him to see you like this?
Like this  like how? It's your fault. You're to blame. I was saving myself.
Well, I'm sure you're not spent yet.
Promise you won't tell Brad.
Cross my heart and hope to die.
What a guy
Makes you cry
What guy
Makes you cry
Great Heavens, that's a laser.
Yes, Dr Scott. A laser capable of emitting a beam of pure antimatter.
You did right.
A decision had to be made.
You're OK by me.
Dr Scott I'm sorry about your nephew.
Yes, well perhaps it was for the best.
You must leave now Dr Scott while it's still possible. We are about to beam the entire house back to the planet of transexual in the galaxy of Transylvania. Go now.
Hello.
Uh  oh  Hi! My name is Brad Majors. And this is my fiancee, Janet Weiss. I  ah  wondered if you could help us. Our car has broken down about two miles up the road. Do you have a phone we might use?
You're wet.
Great scott  Scotty  Dr Everett Scott.
You know this earth  this person.
I most certainly do. He happens to be an old friend of mine.
Good God.
Yes.
Yes.
Everyone knows Betty's a wonderful little cook.
Yes.
And Ralph himself will be in line for promotion in a year or so.
Yes.
Yes Brad.
I've got something to say.
Uh huh.
I really loved the skilful way You beat the other girls To the bride's bouquet.
Oh Brad.
Oh Janet
For you.
Oh Brad, I'm mad.
Dammit, Janet.
Gosh. That's the third motorcyclist that's passed us. They certainly take their lives in their hands. What with the weather and all.
Yes, Janet. Life's pretty cheap to that type.
I think we took the wrong fork a few miles back.
Oh dear! But then where did the motorcyclists come from?
Hmmm ... Well, I guess we will have to turn back.
What was that bang?
We must have a blowout.
Oh...
You'd better sit here and keep warm while I go for help.
But where will you go? We're in the middle of nowhere.
Didn't we pass a castle back down the road a few miles? Maybe they have a telephone I might use.
I'm coming with you.
There's no point both of us getting wet.
I'm coming with you. Besides, darling, the owner of the phone might be a beautiful woman and you may never come back.
Oh, Brad. Let's go back. I'm cold and I'm frightened.
Just a moment, Janet. They may have a telephone.
Yes, the rain has been very heavy.
Yes.
Oh Brad, I'm frightened. What kind of place is this?
Oh, it's probably some kind of hunting lodge for rich weirdos.
Oh....Say something.
Say! Do any of you guys know the Madison?
Brad, please lets get out of here.
For God's sake keep a grip on yourself Janet.
But it seems so unhealthy here.
It's just a..a party Janet.
Well I want to leave.
We can't go anywhere until I get to a phone.
Then ask the butler  or someone.
Let's wait awhile Janet. We don't want to interfere with their celebrations.
This isn't the Junior Chamber of Commerce Brad.
They're probably foreigners with ways different from our own.  They may do some more folk dancing.
Brad  I'm cold, I'm wet, and plain scared.
I'm here, there's nothing to worry about.
Right!
We'll just say where we are Then go back to the car We don't want to be any worry.
Oh Brad.
It's alright Janet, we'll play along for now and pull out the aces when the time is right.
I'm Brad Majors and this is my fiancee, Janet Vice.
Weiss.
Weiss.
Brad...
It's alright Janet.
Oh Brad  Mmmm  Oh yes, my darling  what if...
It's alright Janet. Everything's going to be alright.
Oh, I hope so my darling. But let me switch on the light.
No, don't do that.
Oh don't be so shy.
Maybe we could try it this way.
Janet! Oh! Yes it's alright. Janet. Everything's going to be alright.
I hope so my darling.
I'm engaged to Brad just the same as Betty Monroe was to Ralph Hapschatt. But Frank's kisses overwhelmed me with an ecstacy I've never dreamt of before. Hot, burning kisses.
And that's all the time that it takes For a heart to turn to stone The sweeter the wine The harder to make the break You hear something about someone You'd thought you'd known.
I could see Brad's face before me and my mind screamed No! But my lips were hungry  too hungry.
So baby don't cry like there's no tomorrow After the night there's a brand new day. And there'll be no pain And no more sorrow. So wash your face And phone my place It'll be O.K.
I wanted to be loved completely. My body throbbed excitedly. Oh Brad, Brad my darling, how could I have done this to you?
And that's all the time that it takes For a heart to beat again. So give me a sign That a lover makes You look around The one you've found Is back again.
If only we hadn't made this journey. If only the car hadn't broken down. If only we were amongst friends or sane persons.
The future is ours so let's plan it.
Janet.
So please don't tell me to can it.
Janet.
I've one thing to say and that's Dammit, Janet. I love you.
Janet.
Made me give you the eye And then panic,
Janet
Do you have any tattoos Brad.
Certainly not!
Oh well. How about you.
You!
I'm afraid so, Brad. But wasn't it nice?
Why you  what have you done with Janet?
Nothing. Why do you think I should?
You tricked me. I wouldn't have  I've never  never.
I know, but it wasn't all bad was it? I think you found it quite pleasurable. Oh so soft. So sensual.
Ahhh  no  stop  I mean Janet. Janet.
Shush. Janet's probably asleep by now. Do you want her to see you like this?
Like this. Like how? It's your fault  you're to blame. I thought it was the real thing.
Oh come on, Brad, admit it. It was enjoyable, wasn't it? There's no crime in giving yourself over to pleasure.
You promise you won't tell?
On my mother's grave.
I see. So this wasn't simply a chance meeting. You came here with a purpose.
I told you, my car broke down.
I was telling the truth.
I know what you told me, Brad. But this Dr Everett Scott. His name is not unknown to me.
He was a Science Teacher at Denton High.
And now he works for your Government, doesn't he, Brad? He's attached to the Bureau of Investigation of that which you call U.F.O's. Isn't he, Brad?
He might be. I don't know.
Hmmmm. He'll be in the Zen Room.
Janet!
Rocky!
It's as if we were glued to the spot.
You are  so quake with fear, you tiny fools.
Ah, good. New acquisitions. You are a protocol droid, are you not?
I am SeeThreepio, humancy...
Yes or no will do.
Oh. Well, yes.
How many languages do you speak?
I am fluent in over six million forms of communication, and can readily...
Splendid! We have been without an interpreter since our master got angry with our last protocol droid and disintegrated him.
Disintegrated?
Master Yoda, you can't die.
Strong am I with the Force... but not that strong! Twilight is upon me and soon night must fall. That is the way of things... the way of the Force.
But I need your help. I've come back to complete the training.
No more training do you require. Already know you that which you need.
Yoda, I must know.
Your father he is.
Told you, did he?
Yes.
Unexpected this is, and unfortunate...
Unfortunate that I know the truth?
Well, I'm sorry.
Remember, a Jedi's strength flows from the Force. But beware. Anger, fear, aggression. The dark side are they. Once you start down the dark path, forever will it dominate your destiny.
The Emperor has been expecting you.
I know, father.
So, you have accepted the truth.
Come with me.
ObiWan once thought as you do.
You don't know the power of the dark side. I must obey my master.
I will not turn...and you'll be forced to kill me.
If that is your destiny.
Search your feelings, father. You can't do this. I feel the conflict within you. Let go of your hate.
It is too late for me, son. The Emperor will show you the true nature of the Force. He is your master now.
ObiWan has taught you well.
I will not fight you, father.
Your thoughts betray you, father. I feel the good in you...the conflict.
There is no conflict.
You couldn't bring yourself to kill me before, and I don't believe you'll destroy me now.
You underestimate the power of the dark side. If you will not fight, then you will meet your destiny.
You cannot hide forever, Luke.
I will not fight you.
Give yourself to the dark side. It is the only way you can save your friends. Yes, your thoughts betray you. Your feelings for them are strong. Especially for...
Sister! So...you have a twin sister. Your feelings have now betrayed her, too. ObiWan was wise to hide her from me. Now his failure is complete. If you will not turn to the dark side, then perhaps she will.
Neverrr!
Over there! Two more of them!
I see them. Wait, Leia!
Leia... do you remember your mother? Your real mother?
Just a little bit. She died when I was very young.
What do you remember?
Just...images, really. Feelings.
Tell me.
She was very beautiful. Kind, but...sad. Why are you asking me all this?
I have no memory of my mother. I never knew her.
Luke, tell me. What's troubling you?
Vader is here...now, on this moon.
He's my father.
Your father?
There's more. It won't be easy for you to hear it, but you must. If I don't make it back, you're the only hope for the Alliance.
Luke, don't talk that way. You have a power II don't understand and could never have.
You're wrong, Leia. You have that power too. In time you'll learn to use it as I have. The Force is strong in my family. My father has it...I have it...and...my sister has it.
Yes. It's you Leia.
I know. Somehow...I've always known.
Then you know why I have to face him.
No! Luke, run away, far away. If he can feel your presence, then leave this place. I wish I could go with you.
No, you don't. You've always been strong.
But, why must you confront him?
Because...there is good in him. I've felt it. He won't turn me over to the Emperor. I can save him. I can turn him back to the good side. I have to try.
Ugh!
Ohhh, I can't bear to watch.
Oh!
Your Royal Highness.
What's he saying?
He says there's a secret entrance on the other side of the ridge.
Oh! Oh, my. Uh, Princess Leia!
Quiet.
I'm afraid our furry companion has gone and done something rather rash.
Oh, no.
All wings report in.
Red Leader standing by.
Good shot, Red Two.
Now...come on, Han, old buddy. Don't let me down.
I'm going in.
Here goes nothing.
Now lock onto the strongest power source. It should be the power generator.
Form up. And stay alert. We could run out of space real fast.
There it is!
All right, Wedge. Go for the power regulator on the north tower.
Copy, Gold Leader. I'm already on my way out.
Lord Vader, this is an unexpected pleasure. We're honored by your presence.
You may dispense with the pleasantries, Commander. I'm here to put you back on schedule.
I assure you, Lord Vader, my men are working as fast as they can.
Perhaps I can find new ways to motivate them.
I tell you, this station will be operational as planned.
The Emperor does not share your optimistic appraisal of the situation.
But he asks the impossible. I need more men.
Then perhaps you can tell him when he arrives.
That is correct, Commander. And he is most displeased with your apparent lack of progress.
We shall double our efforts.
I hope so, Commander, for your sake. The Emperor is not as forgiving as I am.
Oh, dear. His High Exaltedness, the great Jabba the Hutt, has decreed that you are to be terminated immediately.
Good, I hate long waits.
You will therefore be taken to the Dune Sea and cast into the pit of Carkoon, the nesting place of the allpowerful Sarlacc.
In his belly, you will find a new definition of pain and suffering, as you are slowly digested over a thousand years.
On second thought, let's pass on that, huh?
Here we go again.
All right, hang on.
What are you telling them?
Hello, I think... I could be mistaken. They're using a very primitive dialect. But I do believe they think I am some sort of god.
Well, why don't you use your divine influence and get us out of this?
I beg your pardon, General Solo, but that just wouldn't be proper.
Proper?!
It's against my programming to impersonate a deity.
What did he say?
I'm rather embarrassed, General Solo, but it appears you are to be the main course at a banquet in my honor.
We're coming!
Come on! Come on!
Oh, Artoo, hurry!
My goodness! Artoo, why did you have to be so brave?
Well, I suppose I could hotwire this thing.
Oh, Princess Leia, are you all right?
Let's see.
Han! Chewie?
Lando!
Lando, grab it!
Lower it!
I'm trying!
Chewie! Chewie, give me the gun. Don't move, Lando.
No, wait! I thought you were blind!
It's all right. Trust me. Don't move.
All right! A little higher! Just a little higher!
Guess I owe you some thanks, too, Lando.
Figured if I left you frozen like that you'd just give me bad luck the rest of my life, so I might as well get you unfrozen sooner or later.
Well, look at you, a general, huh?
Oh, well, someone must have told them about my little maneuver at the battle of Taanab.
Look. I want you to take her. I mean it. Take her. You need all the help you can get. She's the fastest ship in the fleet.
All right, old buddy. You know, I know what she means to you. I'll take good care of her. Sheshe won't get a scratch. All right?
Good luck.
You, too.
Someone who loves you.
Leia!
I gotta get you out of here.
I don't know. All I can see is a lot of blowing sand!
That's all any of us can see.
Hey, are you awake?
Yeah, I just got a funny feeling. Like I'm not gonna see her again.
Now we find out if that code is worth the price we paid.
It'll work. It'll work.
Shall we try and go around?
It'll take time. This whole party'll be for nothing if they see us.
What's going on?
I don't know.
I...
Ahhh...
I'm sorry.
Hold me.
The main entrance to the control bunker's on the far side of that landing platform. This isn't gonna be easy.
Hey, don't worry. Chewie and me got into a lot of places more heavily guarded than this.
Han! Hurry! The fleet will be here any moment.
Charges! Come on, come on!
The code's changed. We need Artoo!
Here's the terminal.
I'm sure Luke wasn't on that thing when it blew.
He wasn't. I can feel it.
You love him, don't you?
Yes.
All right. I understand. Fine. When he comes back, I won't get in the way.
Han!
Luke!
Are you all right?
Fine. Together again, huh?
Wouldn't miss it.
How are we doing?
The same as always.
That bad, huh? Where's Leia?
I think my eyes are getting better. Instead of a big dark blur, I see a big light blur.
There's nothing to see. I used to live here, you know.
You're gonna die here, you know. Convenient.
Just stick close to Chewie and Lando. I've taken care of everything.
Oh... great!
Why don't you leave that crate and come with us?
I have a promise I have to keep first... to an old friend.
Luke.
Hi, Han... Chewie.
You got her warmed?
Yeah, she's comin' up.
Right. Chewie, let's see what this piece of junk can do. Ready, everybody?
All set.
Vader's on that ship.
Now don't get jittery, Luke. There are a lot of command ships. Keep your distance though, Chewie, but don't look like you're trying to keep your distance.
I don't know. Fly casual.
I'm endangering the mission. I shouldn't have come.
It's your imagination, kid. Come on. Let's keep a little optimism here.
Chewie and I will take care of this. You stay here.
Quietly, there might be more of them out there.
I thought she was with you.
We got separated.
Take the squad ahead. We'll meet at the shield generator at 0300.
Come on, Artoo. We'll need your scanners.
Nice work. Great, Chewie! Great! Always thinking with your stomach.
Will you take it easy? Let's just figure out a way to get out of this thing. Han, can you reach my lightsaber?
Yeah, sure.
Hey!
Han, don't. It'll be all right.
Somehow, I got the feeling that didn't help us very much.
Threepio, tell them if they don't do as you wish, you'll become angry and use your magic.
The Death Star will be completed on schedule.
You have done well, Lord Vader. And now I sense you wish to continue your search for young Skywalker.
Yes, my Master.
Patience, my friend. In time he will seek you out. And when he does, you must bring him before me. He has grown strong. Only together can we turn him to the dark side of the Force.
As you wish.
Everything is proceeding as I have foreseen.
What is thy bidding, my Master?
Send the fleet to the far side of Endor. There it will stay until called for.
What of the reports of the Rebel fleet massing near Sullust?
It is of no concern. Soon the Rebellion will be crushed and young Skywalker will be one of us! Your work here is finished, my friend. Go out to the command ship and await my orders.
Yes, my Master.
I told you to remain on the command ship.
A small Rebel force has penetrated the shield and landed on Endor.
I have felt him, my Master.
Strange, that I have not. I wonder if your feelings on this matter are clear, Lord Vader.
They are clear, my Master.
Then you must go to the Sanctuary Moon and wait for them.
Oh, no, my young Jedi. You will find that it is you who are mistaken...about a great many things.
His lightsaber.
Shhh. You have hibernation sickness.
I can't see.
Your eyesight will return in time.
Where am I?
Jabba's palace.
Who are you?
I can't do it, Artoo. I can't go on alone.
Yoda will always be with you.
You told me Vader betrayed and murdered my father.
You father was seduced by the dark side of the Force. He ceased to be Anakin Skywalker and became Darth Vader. When that happened, the good man who was your father was destroyed. So what I have told you was true... from a certain point of view.
There's still good in him.
I also thought he could be turned back to the good side. It couldn't be done. He is more machine now than man. Twisted and evil.
I can't do it, Ben.
You cannot escape your destiny.
I tried to stop him once. I couldn't do it.
Vader humbled you when first you met him, Luke... but that experience was part of your training. It taught you, among other things, the value of patience. Had you not been so impatient to defeat Vader then, you could have finished your training here with Yoda. You would have been prepared.
But I had to help my friends.
To be a Jedi, Luke, you must confront and then go beyond the dark side  the side your father couldn't get past. Impatience is the easiest door  for you, like your father. Only, your father was seduced by what he found on the other side of the door, and you have held firm. You're no longer so reckless now, Luke. You are strong and patient. And now, you must face Darth Vader again!
I can't kill my own father.
Then the Emperor has already won. You were our only hope.
Yoda spoke of another.
The other he spoke of is your twin sister.
But I have no sister.
Hmm. To protect you both from the Emperor, you were hidden from your father when you were born. The Emperor knew, as I did, if Anakin were to have any offspring, they would be a threat to him. That is the reason why your sister remains safely anonymous.
Leia! Leia's my sister.
Your insight serves you well. Bury your feelings deep down, Luke. They do you credit. But they could be made to serve the Emperor.
But you can't let her get involved now, Ben. Vader will destroy her.
She hasn't been trained in the ways of the Jedi the way you have, Luke... but the Force is strong with her, as it is with all of your family. There is no avoiding the battle. You must face and destroy Vader!
Admiral, we're in position. All fighters accounted for.
Proceed with the countdown. All groups assume attack coordinates.
All craft, prepare to jump to hyperspace on my mark.
All right. Stand by.
We saw it. All craft prepare to retreat.
You won't get another chance at this, Admiral.
We have no choice, General Calrissian. Our cruisers can't repel firepower of that magnitude.
Han will have that shield down. We've got to give him more time.
At that close range, we won't last long against those Star Destroyers.
We'll last longer then we will against that Death Star...and we might just take a few of them with us.
The shield is down! Commence attack on theDeath Star's main reactor.
We're on our way. Red Group, Gold Group, all fighters follow me. Told you they'd do it!
You always did have style.
It's one of a kind.
So are you, PopSweet. That's why...
This shit was Ming.
That's the problem with expensive tastes... the more you got, the more you got to lose.
Where's your pet gorilla and the female Uncle Tom?
They're... around.
Yeah? So, what do you want to ask today that I can't answer? I'm a busy man.
The way Zimmermann takes such good care of you and this drugpeddling "escort service" of yours, I figure you got the scoop on the pharmaceuticals arriving tonight.
Well, let me tell you how it is...
Pardon me... my mistake. Taking your thoughts in hand, huh... ?
Whoops... don't mind me. Go ahead and finish up.
Pure horse.
You are such a disappointment, Benny.
Arriving tonight
Going into Zimmermann's pipeline.
Why do you bother with that mumbojumbo crap? Some fruitcake's writing it between bong hits, making it up as he goes, and you're actually taking the time to read it.
Yeah, nonbeliever? Here's yours... "Scorpio, October 24 to November 22: Jupiter is in conflict with Saturn, so proceed with caution..."
Look out! Jupiter and Saturn'll get you every fucking time.
"Today you have a rare opportunity to make a big difference in your chosen field. By your able leadership and with great conviction and strength of character, you will come up a winner."
Let me see that... Not bad.
Yeah... great.
You know... you could say thank you.
You're the one with the starspangled hardon, not me.
What are you, communist? At least numbnuts here has the courtesy to pretend he likes them.
I just think you should show some respect. I mean, call me old fashioned, but 200 years ago when Ben Franklin and those guys signed the Constitution and Declaration of Independence, they did that so we could all share in the freedom...
First of all, the Constitution wasn't writtem till 1787...
You know what I mean.
Second of all, the Declaration of Independence was all for liberty and equality, but it didn't do anything about slavery, did it?
Yeah, well... nobody's perfect. They couldn't go doing everything at once.
All I'm saying is, your little Bicentennial mementos would be more accurate if there were no holes in the pepper shaker so the pepper couldn't get out.
Alright?
Absolutely.
We got him.
Slow down.
"Go, go, go!" "Slow down." Make up your mind.
Don't crowd him.
Hold your horses, sweetpea. We need Butch Cassidy alive, remember?
Shit. You're right.
If they crash, maybe he'll run. You can shoot him in the leg or something.
Let's hope.
I'm gonna get beside him.
No you're not.
I'm gonna get beside. Nena, you're gonna shoot out his tires.
No, we are <U>not</U> going to do that.
You... SUCK! You almost got us all killed!
You think this is so easy?
Can't be worse than you.
Oh yeah?
That's right, white bread. Give it up. Right now.
Okay, okay... hold on. Don't go getting your panties in a knot...
Get closer! Don't lose him!
I kinda already figured that, but keep those helpful hints coming.
You put your bumper just behind his left tire and then accelerate... make him spin out...
Is there nothing in this world you enjoy more than the sound of your own voice?
What... ? Not you too?
He's right. We hit the bricks, we walk back triplefucked.
I can't believe I'm hearing this,
I worked my ass off for my badge, Kittle, It's the only thing that makes me different from every other slob out there.
That's not true.
I know it is, even if you don't.
Yeah, my arms healed up real good, and that's how I wanna keep 'em. That's what I'm trying to tell you.
Guys... all we've got is each other. Don't we know that by now?
You need a doctor.
Nothing's broke. Keep sewing. And quit pacing, you big ox. You're making me skittish.
Any preferences?
Whatever goes bang.
Let's get this thing done.
All for one...
Alright, fleshpeddler, let's see empty hands!
Out here. On your knees.
You get him?
Dead.
Chalk up another victory for BillyBoy's one man war on crime.
If it is, that's pretty high up on the totem pole. What do you think?
Gimmie a minute.
Alright... how about you two hit the strip and start knocking some heads together? Find out who "A.D." is. I got a quick errand to run.
Sounds good.
Been waiting long?
Just got here.
How'd we do?
A.D. is a C.P.A.
Come again... ?
Archibald Dobbs; Certified Public Accountant. But, that's all we got.
Maybe it's enough.
Get his attention.
Your wish is my command.
HeyHo... ! Maybe we're not alone in this thing after all.
Who is that... ?
What the hell's his problem?
You mean, besides the warrant out on us for blowing up our commanding officer?
You're... you're not doing what I think you're doing... ?
Seatbelts fastened, please.
You suck at lying, Archie.
See... now that we know you know, the hard part's done for us.
It's just a question of how long do we have to slap you silly till you spill the beans.
We're screwed.
I'm well aware of that.
This much powder you don't throw in the trunk with a blanket over it. It's got to be smuggled.
There's not even enough places to stash it in a car.
No more counting the big money for someone else.
Beholden to none.
Think Zimmermann's watching?
Who the fuck knows? We'll find out soon enough.
You JohnWilkesBoothed him.
Billy! Billy!
Why the beach?
So there's nobody around to get killed in the explosion.
Oh, yeah... the explosion.
Know what I love about dynamite?
Do tell.
When you bunch it together, it's exponentially more powerful. Two sticks have the power of four sticks. Four sticks have the power of sixteen, and so on.
I don't think so.
Well, that's what I heard, and that's what I choose to believe.
The gang's all here!
Keep 'em busy.
You see that?
Yeah.
Good. Thought I was imagining them.
What can we do for you, officers? What new, mindless harassments have you planned this morning?
Just wanted to make you aware... before today's over, we'll be standing on top of your mountain of horse and pissing down on you.
Thank you for sharing that charming image.
Couldn't have said it better myself.
You bust some smalltime pimps, whores and dimebag junkies, like the world's a better place because you're in it. And for what, Kittle... two hundred and fifty dollars a week? Tell me, how does anyone get so selfrightious when they can barely afford to pay their rent?
Just 'cause you belong to some fancypants club, doesn't make you any less a murderer.
Murderer? Really?
Thanks, but we don't recognize "brunch" as an actual meal.
I insist. What will it be? Boston Tea Party Clam Chowder, or maybe the Chicken Red, White and Cordon Bleu? No... There's a special on the menu, today only... ... <U>roasted</U> <U>pig</U>.
Your poison's not gonna make it into the veins of any kids this time.
Wave that flag, hero. Keep dreaming those dreams.
You fuckers... damn you! Why?! Why me!? Why the obsession with me?
It's our job.
You think you accomplished something... like you're heroes? Fuck you! This is meaningless! You'll never win! You know, as soon as I'm gone... someone's going to take my place.
And, what... what am I forgetting? Oh, yes... the transvestite junkie whose bullet riddled body came blasting through the front doors of the precinct house!
Well, sir...
No. Don't open your mouth! You <U>honestly</U> think you can explain this to my satisfaction?
I... I think I can... clarify...
Don't bother. This behavior's gone on too long. You're suspended.
What?
Don't you condescend to tell me how or why to honor Independence Day, and don't tell me I'm overreacting when I'm trying to bust the guy responsible for half the filthy junk coming into this city!
You're about an inch away from insubordination!
Well... seeing how you just suspended me, what's to stop me from calling you a crazy bastard, you old fart?
Till the last firework fizzles out tonight, detective, you sit a desk. And, after that, I'll decide if you keep your shield.
It's noon straight up. Effective immediately, you three work desk jobs till midnight.
You can't be serious.
Can't I?
We've been chasing this deal six months, and now you're gonna chuck it out the window?
He went to pick up lunch.
Well, shake a leg. Get these files downstairs... And, quit listening to your fucking voodoo music.
Yes, sir.
Hey now, look! Let's all get on the same page here. This shipment is do or die for Zimmermann's syndicate; all or nothing. If we stop the drugs, we don't even have to catch him redhanded. He's ruined cause his pushers go broke with nothing to sell. On the other hand, if we fuck this up, it means more zombies crawling the gutters than ever and a morgue that doesn't have a single empty drawer. More old ladies getting mugged and molested by junkhungry needlefreaks, and all the while Zimmermann's sitting back and laughing his head off.
There'll be other chances.
Not like this. Are you even listening?
I'm gonna put a great big, eartofuckingear smile on your face. How 'bout that?
Where have you been?
I'm here. That's all that counts. Watch... you'll enjoy this... it's like magic...
Our resignations.
You going rogue on me?
Maybe.
What happened, Kittle? We used to be friends. You used to know how the game was played.
You mean taking bribes, and skimming busts and letting hoods walk? You mean not being able to sleep at night after shaking down some honest Joe?
There was a time when you did things the right way, till you hooked up with that fatassedboozehound and the soulsister.
Why do I always have to sit in back?
It's just the way things are, kiddo.
Well, I would like to sit in front today.
It's not gonna happen.
You been wearing rubbers, BillyBoy?
Wha... ?
Birth control's important.
What... what kinda thing is that to say?
You know, the more weight back there, the faster the car goes.
Bullshit.
You never heard of physics, Einstein? The laws of physics. The more ballast we keep closer to the rear tires...
I'm back here, aren't I? So, you don't have to make up a buncha lies to make me feel good about it.
Oh... okay.
What's mine say?
"Leo. The stages of the moon are in alignment, so now is a perfect time for a vigorous regimen of self improvement. Wash yourself more carefully each morning, stop using pies and cakes as your primary source of nourishment, and quit tucking your shirttails inside your underwear."
It doesn't say that.
No, but it should.
Hey...
Forgive me for not ooing cartwheels over commemorative salt and pepper shakers
That's him alright.
It's go time, BillyB.
Smooth move, hotshot.
What was I supposed to do?
Laugh it up. You'll cry later.
You'll cry like a great big, blubbering baby.
What the... ?! What was that for?
Follow me.
How come everyone thinks hitting me's the best way to get my attention?
Where we going?
We have to find Kittle.
Okay. But, what changed our mind?
Just keep an eye out till I get this rig up and running.
Let's go! Fuck everything! God damn sons of bitching mother humpers... I'm gonna rip'em all brand new assholes... !
Hey... HEY! Cool down, Jumbo!
I can't believe we're stealing.
We're not stealing. We're borrowing.
No, we're stealing.
This is the police lockup. We're police. How can we steal from ourselves?
Then, why'd we tie him up?
Who said it wa's me, hub? Anyway... he fell off a ladder. It wasn't really my fault.
Well, I got something.. PopSweet's accounting ledger for the DiscoStrip. All the money transactions. Look... Someone's putting their initials beside the weekly totals. Like they're acknowledging a deposit.
You live like a pig.
Can't you say something nice once?
Okay. It doesn't smell as bad in here as I remember it smelling.
Bad news is, word's spreading like wildfire that we don't have badges, and nobody wants to end up getting splattered like Butch Cassidy either.
If we don't catch a break soon, we're gonna be left standing with our dicks in our hands.
Speak for yourself.
Whoa, whoa... it's gonna be alright.
... where... where's a jerk like me ever gonna find another girl to love him... huh?...
Don't talk like that. There's plenty of women around for jerks like you.
You're lying...
You plan on shooting that gun or just hugging it?
I'm waiting till the time's right.
What about Jack Daniels? Wasn't he a decorated general in the Civil War?
No.
General Jim Beam, then.
Nope.
Oh. Well. I think it's pretty common knowledge that in the Battle of Little Big Horn, Custer was drunk off his ass.
Billy, I love you I really do... but I've got to tell you, every day, in every way, you give new meaning to the word "stupidity."
What can I say to that... except, I love you too, you meanspirited bitch.
You could start over again with cash like that.
Go wherever you want. Live how you want.
Feels like there's a bullet still in my chest.
There probably is.
Bummer.
He tried to kill us.
We've got the tape to prove it.
How's your precious little schoolmarm today?
She's fine, as if you cared.
Tell me something... what's a school teacher doing having you meet for breakfast in one of the filthiest parts of downtown skankville? I mean, this is not the place for fine dining, unless looking at prostitutes stimulates your appetite.
Filthy kids go to kindergarten too. What are you saying, anyhow?
Nothing, I guess. Just an observation. She's really something special. You're a lucky fella.
Lay off once, would you?
What'd I say?
It's the way you say it, like there's something more too it.
She's right. If you two are doing the horizontal polka, the last thing you want is a thirtyfive pound bundleofjoy stumbling around, knocking over furniture and calling you "daddy."
Jeez... it's too early in the morning for this. Leave off. Here's your paper.
What, am I supposed to read it while I drive? Keep a grip on it, alright?
You shouldn't litter.
Thank you, concerned citizen.
Give a Hoot. Don't Pollute.
I'll give you a fucking hoot if you don't shut up back there.
Just a little, you know... Bicentennial memento. Nothing special.
Whoa, thanks, man. These are cool. They'll be collector's items.
Escort everyone's favorite SheMale over here nice and peacefullike. Let's not have another incident like at the laundromat. I'll never forget the look on that poor woman's face.
That wasn't my fault.
Save it. Just go.
I... I can't find my seatbelt.
What do you want me to do about it?
Sons of bitches!
We catch 'em, I wanna be first to hurt 'em. Promise me I get to go first.
We'll share.
I can work this.
No you can't.
Get ready.
Make a hole, BillyBoy.
I'd rather you guys didn't do this again.
Move it!
This is too fast. This is <U>way</U> too fast!
Relax.
We should slow down.
Hands off the suit, monkeyboy. Close your eyes if you're scared.
Jiminy Christmas.
I can not even begin to imagine how much that must have hurt.
I say, fuck 'em. Let's go.
Well... we shouldn't rush into this, right? Let's talk about it.
What are you, Henry friggin' Kissinger all the sudden?
I'm just saying...
You're just saying nothing! Tonight is the night.
Yeah, but if we don't sit, they'll take our badges.
What of it? Haven't we waited forever... ? Haven't we, honey? Haven't we waited long enough to get this scumbag?
All I got is being a cop. What do I do if I'm not that?
You big, fat sonofabitch, if it weren't for me, you'd still be sitting in the file room where I found you. And you... Nena... you've still got needle scars from where I pulled you out of. You of all people...
We shoulda been there to back you up. We shoulda!
Stop blaming yourself.
Ah, jeez, Billy... careful!
I got him.
"A.D."
Who's that? Zimmermann's moneyman?
Where you gonna be?
It's personal. We'll hook up at BillyBoy's pad in an hour. See ya then.
No offices are gonna be open today.
Lots of these pencilpushers work out of their homes. It's a tax dodge.
Okay, we got... one, two... three... Two Caddies and Poe's Mustang.
Could be worse. I don't know how, but I'm sure it could.
Remember those two uniform cops who been giving us such a hard time... ?
Yeah.
The ones you got in that fistfight with a couple a weeks ago... ?
Yeah.
That's them trying to kill us.
Well, they sure know how to hold a grudge.
Look, Kittle... pull over and let me out. I'll be fine... okay? How 'bout that... ? Oh, Lord almighty, listen to me... I don't want to die!! Lemme out of this coffin!!
Clench your teeth.
Wh... what... ?!
Clench your teeth so when we land you don't accidentally bite off your tongue.
That's sick.
Welcome to Beverly Hills. Wifeswapping Capital of the World.
What's the plan?
Beats me. You got a suggestion, feel free to shout it out, genius.
When you planning to cut back on that?
What?
The booze.
I don't know. I could quit now if I wanted, I just don't want to.
I don't know what the problem is. Plenty of great men throughout history got their bravery out of a bottle
Name one.
Dean Martin.
Entertainers don't count.
Who's been giving you history lessons? Your bartender?
Okay, seriously. What about Napoleon, huh?
What about him?
You've never heard of Napoleon brandy, Mister SmartyPants? How do you think it got its name?
They... they shot me.
They shot us all, kid.
What day is it?
Same day as before. I think.
Where we going?
We're gonna rain on Zimmermann's parade.
How you doing back there?
Feeling great.
Gimmie a butt.
You don't smoke.
I'm not taking a cigarette break, jackass, just give me one!
Happy Independence Day.
Yeah. Happy Fourth of July.
Kittle...
Where you been hiding, greasefist? We've been looking for you.
What do you want? I'm clean. I been clean a long time.
Really? Is that a fact... ?
Oh, you fuckers! You fucking fuckers! What? What do you want?
Word is, while the vice cops on the East Coast were standing around playing pocket pool, 300 kilos of heroin got smuggled into New York City. And, right now it's making a crosscountry journey to Hollywood, U.S.A.
Hey now... what the fuck... ?
Again.
Know what he's doing, Benny? He's trying to jog your memory.
I don't know what you're talking about, man. Even if I did, I'm not so crazy I'm gonna cross Zimmermann.
This scag is enough to keep every junkie from here to the Mexican border high as a kite for the next two years. You think we're gonna let Zimmermann haul it onto <U>our</U> streets on the FourthoffuckingJuly!?
Last time BillyBoy did this, the guy's neck broke... ... just like that. Sad in a way. Why is it we don't truly appreciate our arms and legs till we've lost the use of them?
Alright! Alright... put me down...
It's bone dry out there. Everybody's hurting. The stuff floating around's been cut so many times it's like powdered sugar, but Zimnermann's gonna fix it.
I need the "when" and the "where."
I don't know, okay? All I know is Butch Cassidy's back in town.
This is private property. This is breaking and entering!
Just entering. We'll get to the breaking in a minute.
You're Zimmermann's calculator, Archie. All the blood money you had to move around to make this deal, you got to know something. Maybe they told you, maybe you overheard things you weren't supposed to hear...
I'm telling you, you're barking up the wrong tree.
Well, I'm running out of trees, so look me in the eye like a man and tell me you don't know! Convince me!
I don't know. Fuck off!
It's six o'clock. Time's runaing out. Decide.
If I tell you, how do I know you won't just club me and take it back?
You don't. It's a gamble. But, not even in Vegas are you gonna get close to this kind of cash. This is <U>two million</U>, Archie. It's not three houses, it's twelve. It's dreams come true.
Three hundred kilos of White Lady hidden inside a giant bust of Abraham Lincoln. A parade float.
What... ?
Abe Lincoln...
Indivisible and inseparable.
Incestuous.
Every person's got their own kinks, beefcake. What's wrong, Kittle? You don't swing?
What Eve and I wouldn't give to meet up with you on the business end of a daisy chain.
Put up your kickstand, freak. Start talking, or we're out the door.
A little birdie whispered in my ear today... about the needlecandy you're chasing. It's up here... ... in the old curiosity shop.
How much?
I figure, for this information, the usual payment... times ten.
You think it's that good?
I'll tell you what... I think it's all you've got.
Well... what can I do? You've created a dilemma... And, look at the that. Time's running out. I wonder... how can I impress upon you just exactly how frustrating this situation is for me?
You get nothing and like it. And if we're not blissfully happy with what you tell us, we arrest you just for the fun of it.
Okay, man, okay. I'm with you. I... I heard how the shit's arriving... It's coming in a Lincoln.
And... ?
What and? That's what I got.
A Lincoln? What Lincoln? Lincoln Continental? Lincoln Mark Five... Six... ?
Now you know what to watch for...
Am I supposed to take this information and sit up in the hills with a frickin' telescope?
Have I ever steered you wrong?
Cuff'em. Let's see what these two love birds say once they're sitting in separate cages.
Take her down to the car, and for Christ's sake be careful this time. Last suspect he took in, butterfingers dropped her down the stairs. What a mess. Why is it we don't appreciate our arms and legs till we've lost the use of them?
Hey, listen... I'll give you something else, Kittle. Anything. Remember... remember that corpse washed up on Huntington Beach? It was never identified...
Who cares?
Alright, wait... there's a dentist in Brentwood peddling morphine...
Careful she doesn't hit her head on the way.
Come on, don't you screw with her, please! You... you got to want this: armored car job. CalTrust Bank. They took two million in cash...
Read my lips: Zimmermann or nothing.
We'll take the CalTrust heist, but if it's no good, we will hunt you down, and BillyBoy will pull out your spine and he will beat you to death with it.
Fair enough.
I... I can explain...
I'm looking at this poster, and I'm thinkin', I don't remember seeing films like this when I was in school.
I was going to tell him.
What were you gonna say? Exactly how did you think he was gonna make the leap from dating a sweet, innocent school teacher to an assfucking porn star?
But... I love him. I do...
Let me tell him. Let him decide.
You're not gonna see him again.
What... what makes you think you can order me around?!
Maybe I'm not making myself clear. You're probably the first girl BillyBoy's ever fallen in love with, and I know for sure you're the first he's slept with. So, how's he gonna feel... ... when he finds out that the only first he is for you is the first guy who didn't have to pull out at the last second to get his closeup?
Hasn't he got enough problems, or didn't you notice that's not cream soda on his breath?
... okay... you made your point.
Oh, no, ma'am.
Well, it's rather interesting about Brother, actually. I realized the remarkable thing he had when he was six weeks old. He looked at me and understood me, he knew exactly who I was. I know it sounds crazy but it's true. He's very remarkable, he was born for the ministry and could move millions, but he doesn't know that yet. I have to warn you about him, he can be very dangerous, there is an evil streak in him, a streak of pure sheer meanness. But at heart Brother is saintly and that is why he was born for the ministry even if he doesn't know it.
What are you studying now, Mrs. Hillyer?
More history, Rose.
Are you going to get your degree soon?
Well, I am working on my thesis.
It must be wonderful to be so smart. I don't see how you do it, reading all those books, learning all that stuff.
Rose, you work too hard. Why don't you go sit down somewhere and drink a CoCola?
You're so sweet.
Really, why don't you go sit down somewhere?
I like to work. I don't mind work. It's the least I can do after all you and Mr. Hillyer have done for me. You're so sweet. There never was nobody like you.
Well, you run on now.
Yes, Ma'am.
Rose, you're in an awful dither tonight. What's the matter with you, honey, are you sick or something?
No, ma'am, I'm just fine.
You look sick if you ask me. I hate to leave you with the dishes and all, but I'm supposed to go to a meeting of the Garden Club this evening. I'll need the car keys.
Well, I think it's charming, Rose. But don't you think... ah, the skirt is a little tight?
Oh, no, that's the style. It's meant to be clinging.
Yes, Ma'am.
Doll, you and Waski run on, too.
Rose, that scruffylooking man is out in the yard again.
Mrs. Hillyer, I don't know who he is, I really don't.
I had better call Daddy.
I don't think we ought to discuss this in front of the children.
Oh... oh... oh! I think... maybe... one of 'em... was Foster... but I don't hardly know him!
I don't want to go to the dentist.
Be quiet, Rose.
Poor thing. Does the ice help, Rose?
Ohhhh, a little. Ohh, I ain't never been to no dentist before. He's gonna kill me, I just know it.
No, Rose, he'll help you.
I'm not goin' in there, I don't like the looks of it!
Rose, sit down in that chair and be quiet! We're trying to help you, you silly creature, sit in that chair!
Ohhh, ohhhh, Lord, he's gonna kill me.
Never again, never again...
I know it was bad, honey. I'm sorry...
No more dentists, no more dentists...
It'll get better now.
Rose has learned her lesson, haven't you, Rose?
Yes, ma'am.
Rose, you're very sick. You're burning up. Rose, can you hear me? Rose?
What? Whaat? Mrs. Hillyer?
You see, Rose? Now that's the kind of dress you ought to wear.
Yeah, it's kinda nice.
You look very pretty in it, Rose. Really, you do.
Well, you're real sweet to make it for me. There never was nobody like you. And you don't need to worry, I ain't goin' out no more.
Well, there's no reason you shouldn't go out, Rose... in moderation.
I don't want to. When I was lyin' there in that hospital bed at death's door I says to myself, I ain't goin' out no more. If I ever get outta this, I'll just stay home.
Rose, you don't look well and you haven't eaten a bit of breakfast.
I'm not hungry. I can't eat nothin', I haven't been able to eat since I got fired. I think maybe I'm sick.
Well, I... I... I don't know... maybe it was... but no, you can't be sure about a thing like that. It wasn't Billy, I didn't know him.
I know it's embarrassing... but who were you exposed to, dear? ROSE Well, now, Mrs. Hillyer, I... ahh, that's kinda hard to say.
Ohh, Mrs. Hillyer, I... I can't think. I... I'm not really sure.
Rose, really, you shouldn't act like that.
Oh, I know. But I didn't, really. Honestly, I didn't. There was only one, but he's out of town and leave no forwardin' address.
Rose, you don't have to.
I don't mind.
Don't worry, honey, you'll find something.
I was offered that job as a waitress.
Forget about it, I don't want you working in one of those honky tonks.
You'll never guess what happened! I have met Mr. Right! I been with him all day and he loves me, I know he does, he loves me and he's going to marry met Be's practi'cly ast me already!
Well... well, that's wonderful, Rose.
And who do you suppose he is? That policeman who arrested me, the one I bit! He is Mr. Right!
Rose, this is Waski. His real name is Warren but we call him Waski. He doesn't like it much and I suppose someday we'll have to stop calling him that.
You can stop it right now.
When he was baby we called him "Wa Wa," a baby name, you know. You will find him a very good boy. His brother can be bad and so can his sister, but Waski is a very good boy. And as you can see he's beautiful.
Oh, Mother, cut it out.
There are plenty of girls who would give thousands of dollars to have your auburn hair. Beauty is beauty and that's all there is to it. Beauty is there and we have to recognize it. Now Rose, the little girl sitting across from you with the blue eyes is Doll Baby. She looks like an angel and she is an angel, but she can be a naughty angel sometimes, although her father won't believe it. Her real name is Frances, but we call her Dolly or Doll.
Mother... is Rose going to die?
No, Waski, she won't die, because we are praying for her.
Well, she finally let me look in her mouth. Is it true she's never been to a dentist?
She was raised on a poor dirt farm. I'm sure she's never seen a dentist or hardly even a doctor.
Well, she has one mouth in ten thousand, I don't see teeth like that once in ten years. Her trouble is an impacted wisdom tooth, but there isn't a cavity in her head, not a single one. She has perfect teeth.
But the wisdom tooth will have to be pulled?
Yes, and it's very bad. It probably should be done at the hospital under general anesthesia.
That would scare her to death. She's terrified of hospitals. To her, a hospital is where you go to die.
I think you're right, it would be harder on her. But you'd better call Mr. Hillyer, she's going to need help to get home.
Well, Mrs. Hillyer, the girl is strong as an ox and that is what is keeping her alive. But not many people walk away from double pneumonia, Madam, not many.
She looks terrible, just awful.
Of course she does and I must say I'm puzzled by your delay in getting her to the hospital. I should think ordinary powers of observation would have suggested to you that she was seriously ill.
She hid it from us, Doctor. She's afraid of the hospital.
Afraid of the hospital?
Deathly afraid of it. Her people were poor tenant farmers and she doesn't know anything about doctors or medicine or hospitals.
A tenant farm? Are you trying to tell me that girl is a product of the hookworm and pellagra belt?
Well, her people were very poor. She says she was often hungry as a child, and I'm sure the food she ate was pretty awful, not a balanced diet at all.
Exactly, and that's why she couldn't possibly have come from such a farm.
It's simply that I find it incredible, Mr. Hillyer. Aside from the girl's illness at the moment, she is very strong, a very healthy specimen of a young human female  and a comely one, too. She must have gotten protein somewhere as a young child, if only sporadically.
It is kind of amazing. The dentist says she has perfect teeth, there isn't a cavity in her mouth.
Yes, thank you, Doctor.
I beg your pardon, epizootics? Do you mean "epizooottics," an animal epidemic?
Oh, good evening, Doctor. Rose is a lot better, I just gave her her supper. She's almost all well now.
Let me be the judge of that, Madam.
Yes. Well. She's upstairs.
I'm not surprised you thought she was pregnant. An ovarian cyst can look very much like pregnancy. But it was pure wishful thinking on her part. The girl can never have children, she had gonorrhea at fifteen and it was untreated.
Gonorrhea?
Don't worry, Madam, she can't infect your dear little kiddies. She long ago fully recovered, but the disease did irreparable damage. The girl is permanently barren.
Well, that's pathetic. Poor Rose, what a life she has had.
We make our own lives, Madam. As for malignancy, I don't think so, it's very unlikely. I probably shouldn't have even mentioned that possibility to her.
No, you shouldn't have, it was needlessly cruel. She thinks she has cancer and is going to die.
She's an adult, Mrs. Hillyer, I was merely giving her the facts.
I'm sorry the truth nauseates you, Mrs. Hillyer, because before you leave there's a bit more of it I'd like to put to you. This operation provides a therapeutic opportunity that I feel is quite important in regard to this particular girl, who suffers not only from an ovarian cyst but from a certain psychoneurotic condition as well.
What do you mean, what kind of gobbledygook talk is that?
Yes, go on.
I am thinking particularly of the other ovary. As a rule I don't believe in removing it. The woman's hormonal system is profoundly disturbed, she is subject to possibly serious depression, she loses many of her secondary sexual characteristics for example, her breasts might shrink and become flabby, facial hair might appear along with a coarsening of the features, and of course her sexual drive is greatly diminished, especially in a girl or young woman. For these reasons I am opposed to removing the other ovary, as a rule. Do you follow me?
What are you talking about? I don't understand all this mumbo jumbo and the funny looks on your faces.
Mrs. Hillyer, this girl is sick in more ways than one. She is an extreme psychoneurotic with uncontrollable sexual impulses. It would be a mercy to spare her the suffering she causes herself and others. Therefore I recommend as a therapeutic measure the removal of her second ovary. It is ethically and medically the only proper decision in this case and I suspect your husband agrees with me.
Are you human beings or are you some kind of male monsters? Is there no limit to which you won't go to keep your illusions about yourselves?
Illusions, Madam?
You'd go so far as to mutilate a helpless girl who has no means to defend herself, you'd go that far? Don't you think I know what you've just said and don't you think I understand the dreadful and revolting crime you've just conspired to commit?
I will not cry like a woman. If I'm upset it's because of what my husband said, not because of you. You can't make me cry like a woman, a woman has got just as much intelligence and selfcontrol as a man. And you get this in your head. If you hurt that girl, I'll hire lawyers and sue you for malpractice for every penny you have got, I'll do my level best to ruin you. Do you understand me?
Yes, I understand you, but you have misunderstood me completely.
I understand you perfectly. You leave that girl alone, you wretched man, or you will be sorry.
Actually of course I won't operate, I don't do major surgery. Dr. Hardy will operate and of course he'll be guided by your wishes in this respect.
Let him be guided not by my wishes and not by Rose's wishes, although I am sure they are identical. Let him be guided by the wishes of the creative power of life itself, because that is what has spoken through me tonight.
I don't like that, either, it's worse than Waski. I want to be called Fran.
Daddy wouldn't hear that. Now the redhaired boy you see sitting there, of course you have met him, he is my oldest son and my most brilliant child. All children have great creative powers, but I don't want to rattle on about my children, they say I brag too much about them, especially about Brother. Am I boring you, Rose?
Yes, dear, what is it?
Mother, Buddy says Rose got in his bed last night and he fiddled with her and she snorted and had a fit  and he says I would too if I was grownup. Is it true, Mother  would I sweat and snort and froth at the mouth and have a horrible fit like he says?
Daddy, Buddy was up late last night reading little dirty comic books. Mother gave him a dose of castor oil and he cursed it, he took the Lords name in vain, then claimed he hadn't said it. He lied, Daddy.
You mustn't be a tattletale, dear. You mustn't be Delilahish and Jezebelish toward your brother, dear.
I'm only trying to help him, Mother.
What's the matter with him?
I don't know. I think he's cryin'!
Excuse me... your voice is familiar and I'm sure I know you from somewhere...
Awwwrr, Buddy, come on, you know me!
Well, I... I... ahh, let's see...
It's Dave Wilkie! I'm Dave Wilkie, don't you remember me?
Oh. Oh, God. Of course, Dave, how are you?
Well, I am in the construction business, Buddy, and without braggin' I have done real good at it. There are those who wouldn't have expected that out of me. Right now I'm buildin' a giant motel unit near Alexandria, outside Washington, D.C. Not finance, I'm on the construction side.
Well, that's interesting, Dave. I always liked Washington, it's a pretty town.
Oh, it's all right, beats Jew York. But the niggers have took it over, just like every other city we got, only worse.
Ha ha, course you make a lot more. What's that you got there, Buddy?
Galley proof.
Galley what?
Page proof of a book I'm working on.
How about that. Well, you always were a screwball.
Oh, yeah?
I don't mean that the way it sounds. Imagine it, a book. And I used to know you personal way back when. Tell me something, Buddy, how do you dream up all that stuff?
Well, actually, we have a little black boy named Hert who lives in the garage. He does it for me.
Heh heh heh heh, same old Buddy, always jokin' around. Almost as much of a joker as your Daddy. I saw your Daddy a coupla years ago, I was up in Glenville lookin' at a motel site. I guess that's where you're headed, huh, to see him?
That's right, Dave, I'm headed for Glenville on a whisperin' jet.
Hey, girl! Hey, you, give us another drink! Dumb little bitch, supposed to give us two in the first place.
Took your time gettin' here.
She has other things to do, Dave.
Tell me about that job in Alexandria, Dave, the big motel you're building.
Near Alexandria. It isn't in Alexandria, it is outside it.
I see. Outside it.
That's correct  outside it, not in it. As for the job, well, the Jewboy suppliers give me a lot of grief and we use a pile of niggers to haul and tote and they ain't worth a sorryass damn. But I can build anything, Buddy. Give me the plans and I can build a goddamn staircase to the moon. It's a fact, I can build anything... ... but she never believed that. Oh, hell, no, she never believed in me.
Umm, well...
Doubted my ability all along, the little bitch. I never remarried, Buddy, you know that, don't you?
Well, no, I didn't actually.
She's te reason  cured me of women once and for all. Oh, I got rid of her, Buddy, I didn't waste no time kickin' that bitch out. Hell, she was screwin' everybody in Savannah. I caught her in a motel with this long tall son of a bitch and boy did I beat the everlastin' piss out of him!
She didn't marry him, though, later she married another guy and went to WinstonSalem. It didn't last That girl couldn't have no lastin' marriage, she left him and married another dumb sucker and went out west. Little bitch left him, too, and you know what she's married to right now? A kike. That's right, some kind of kike horse doctor named Schapiro out in Seattle, who's got the nerve to have the same first name I got. Wouldn't you know it, Rose would wind up married to a goddamn kike? She was always out of her friggin' head and I'll tell you why. Buddy, she was sick in her mind and between her legs, too. She was a nymphomaniac.
Dave, you are as full of shit as a Christmas turkey and you know it. Now if you want to start a fight on this plane and get yourself in jail, go right ahead. But I am telling you, you are full of shit right up to your eyeballs.
I don't want to start no fight with you, Buddy. Why do you say I'm full of shit?
Dave Schapiro is no horse doctor and Rose has been a good wife to him for a long time. To call her a nymphomaniac is the most stupid thing I ever heard in my life.
You loved her, didn't you. Well, so did I. You'll have to admit she had four husbands.
Yeah, it took her a while to grow up and find Mr. Right, but she did it. She found him.
She used to call me Mr. Right. Remember that, Buddy?
Yeah, I remember it.
Well, got to get a plane to Savannah. Great running into you, Buddy. Give my best to your Daddy.
Yeah, I'll do that, Dave.
Ahh, if you happen to run into Rose sometime... do me a favor, give her a message for me, will you?
Dave, I haven't seen Rose for years.
You might see her. She writes your Daddy, and she and that doctor came to see him, didn't they? I wish you'd tell her something... I never could write letters.
What do you want me to tell her, Dave?
Oh, to hell with it, never mind. Don't tell her anything. Don't even tell her you saw me. Got to run, Buddy, I'll miss my plane.
Yes, sir.
All right. Now as head of this household I have a couple of remarks to make. It is my dear wife's belief, which I accept although I do not totally grasp it, that to hire a person to do household work is a criminal practice. Therefore, you are here not as a servant, you are here as a friend, as a guest and hopefully as a member of this family. You will eat your meals with us, you will share life itself with us  in love and harmony, dear Rosebud, in love and harmony. Do you understand me?
Yes, sir.
Rosebaby Blossom, these are the most delicious candied yams I ever ate! Why, they just melt in my mouth. And this fried chicken is fit for a king. How do you do it, Peachbird? What is the secret of your art, Plum Blossom, huh?
Oh, I don't know, I... I...
Rosebird Baby, you are the light of my life, darlin'. How did we ever get by without you?
I... I'll get the grits.
Ahhhem! Now, Rose, get off my lap. What are you doing, girl? Are you crazy?
Yes, crazy about you! Kiss me, Mr. Hillyer!
Why, I'm not going to kiss you, you crazy girl. Now I'm telling you again, get off my lap. Come on, Rose, get up. Now you get up, I say, and stop this!
No, no! You don't understand, I love you! It's real love and I can't help it! Please kiss me, Mr. Hillyer, I love you, I love you so much...
All right, all right. Now calm down, Rose, the children will hear you. Calm down, let's talk... about this thing, let's discuss it.
Don't make me... me... me... get up!
Calm down, Rose, let's calm down and discuss it ...
Goddamn you, girl! You've made me make a fool out of myself, damn your hide, but let me tell you I am standing at the pass of Thermopylae and I won't budge! The very idea, my own home with children in the house, to say nothing of my wife  ohh, you had better believe I am standing at Thermopylae, you little nut, you had better believe it! What are you, crazy? A man is supposed to be a fool like this, but a woman is supposed to have some control and sense! Are you a nitwit? What's the matter with you?
Ohh, I'm sorry. I'm sorry, Mr. Hillyer... I just... couldn't help myself. I'm sorry...
Rose, Rose, Rose, you poor miserable little child, don't you know I love you? Do I have to put my hand on your body or kiss your pretty lips to prove it? You are beautiful to me, Rose, I've loved you since you first came here, darlin'. And don't you know Mrs. Hillyer loves you, too, that she's already taken you into her heart, and that that woman's heart is as wide as the blue sky itself and as deep as the stars?
Oh, I know. She's so sweet, she's been so good to me...
Do you know what a friend you have got there? Do you know she would fight for you like a tiger, that she would fly to your defense in an instant with all the courage in her soul if anyone tried to hurt you? Is this any way to repay her trust and love? Are you ashamed as I am ashamed? Don't cry, honey, don't cry. But let me warn you, damn your hide, this is Thermopylae and I am standing here. Do you hear me, damn you. I am standing at Thermopylae and the Persians shall not pass! Now get your tail out of here and go wash those dishes, and stop crying!
Rose, what are you doing up?
Nothin', just goin' to the bathroom.
Is anything wrong?
No, sir.
Well, good night.
Nothin'. I got myself up, that's all.
Got yourself up?
Yeah. I'm goin' out.
You're so sweet.
If you've got time before you go "out," get me a halfacup of coffee, Rose. Not a whole cup, a halfacup.
Why, sure, always got time to get you a halfacup, and one of these days I'm gonna get you a whole cup and see what happens.
Umhmmuhh. I never drink a whole cup, my nerves can't stand the caffeine. Ehhhh, Lord awful insomnia in reverse last night. Lay there and sweated blood for hours.
That's a pretty stylish skirt, Rose. The only thing I don't understand is how did you ever get it on.
Well, it has buttons.
How can the buttons stand the pressure?
There are more on the other side.
What have you got in your hair, girl?
My rose. It's kind of like a motto. People will say, there comes Rose with her rose.
You were up late last night, too, Rose.
Yes, sir. I had to go to the bathroom.
Where do you want me to let you out, Rose?
Oh, anywhere downtown.
You don't know where you're going?
Oh, I'll just mosey around here and there.
Is this ill right?
It'll do just fine. Byebye, see you later.
Well, Rose, my sleep was a little disturbed last night, and so was Mrs. Hillyer's, and so was the children's. How about you? Was your sleep disturbed, too?
Yes, Mr. Hillyer, it was. I... I heard strange voices in the night.
Strange voices, Rose?
Yes, sir.
Now Rose, stop behaving as if you're Bo Peep. Those men had a flight last night because of some female in this house, and it wasn't Dolly or Mrs. Hillyer.
Ohhhhh, ohhh...
Oh, shut up, Rose, eat your cornflakes!
I'm not hungry.
Darlin', I'll take a taxi to the hotel. You and Brother can handle the girl's epizootics. I'll just say one more thing. Rose, I told you you had a friend in Mrs. Hillyer, didn't I, that she would fight for you like a tiger?
Yes, sir.
All right, thanks to her, and thanks to this case of epizootics, you are getting another chance. But don't try my patience again. We have growing children in this house. Do you understand me?
Yes, sir.
Good morning, Rose. And how do you feel today?
Wonderful. Except I can touch the place back there with my tongue, I wouldn't even know I had that tooth pulled.
Well, I know it, I just got the bill for it.
Boy, for four or five days there I didn't think I'd live. But I'm my old self again!
Umm. Well. Yes. But no more strange voices in the night, Rose.
Oh, no, sir.
I got an awful bad cold.
That's all you've got to say, you've got a bad cold?
Well, I don't know what happened. They were arguin' about baseball, then all of 'em started fightin'. As for that policeman, I didn't bite him, I don't think I bit him.
I didn't mean to bite him. He was hitting Horton with a blackjack in the meanest way and... and I bit him accidental.
I have to go back to the hotel. I'm on duty at the desk and who knows a quest might arrive. I will see you at suppertime, Rose.
I didn't mean to bite him, I really didn't.
I will see you at suppertime, Rose.
Yes, air.
I mean a human investment, Rose, we care about you, you matter to us. But we have innocent and unformed children in this house and the monkey and dog show has got to stop. Do you hear me?
Yes, sir.
There ain't nobody here, Mr. Hillyer! Honest, there ain't!
Where is he? Where have you got him hid? Ah, ha!
And who, Rose, may I ask, is that?
Well, it's Billy.
And what, may I ask, was Billy doing here?
Well, Mr. Hillyer, Billy's very poor, he don't have no money and there wasn't no place else to go.
Well, it was a silly question.
He's a nice boy, you'd like him. He wants to be a fireman.
Ye gods and little fishes, a fireman. Put on some clothes, Rose, you're naked as a jay bird. When you're dressed, come on downstairs. I'm afraid your friend Billy is injured, where are his clothes?
Under the mattress. I hid 'em so you wouldn't be mad. He wants to marry me, he loves me. I can't marry him, he's too young and hasn't got no job, but he loves me... now you wouldn't hurt him, would you?
Mr. Hillyer, I know it was bad and I hadn't ought to of done it. But I'm only a human girl and I... I ain't always perfect. I promise I won't let him in the house no more, I promise. Won't you and Mrs. Hillyer forgive me?
Rose, darlin', you break my heart. But I am only a human man myself of the father variety. Rose, pack your bag, baby, as of this moment you are hired, mired and fired.
Well, Rose, going out to look for a job today?
What's the use, there ain't none.
Mmm. Would you get me another half acup of coffee, dear?
God forbid. You're not sick, Rose, forget it. Don't get any notions in your head, you're not sick.
Yes, sir.
Well, I have got news! I called long distance and spoke to Cousin Hop and you'll be glad to know, Rose, I have found you a job!
Tennessee?
Yes, Tennessee, a lovely state!
Well. What kinda job is it?
Ahhhh, you'll like it. It's a fine, outdoortype job.
You mean a farm?
No, no, not exactly. It isn't a farm in the sense that it's a farm. Not at all. It's a... dairy establishment. You'll 1ike it! I'm sure you'll like it because it's so... peaceful!
I'm not cryin' because of me, I'm cryin' because of somebody else.
What?
What baby? What baby? What baby are you speaking about?
Mine.
Your baby?
Yes, mine. I'm going to have one.
Good God almighty. This is a catastrophe, they won't hire her.
Yes, I am.
No, you're not.
Yes, Mr. Hillyer, I am.
All right, tell us, Rose, what makes you think you're pregnant?
I haven't had my period for three months and my stomach is getting big.
I don't believe it.
It's so, Mr. Hillyer.
All right, damn it. We've seen you with your clothes off around here, stand up and pull up your dress and let's take a look!
You're looking very chipper this morning, Rose. Sow do you feel?
Perfect, wonderful, good as I ever felt! Except for a big old scar on my stummick, I wouldn't even know I been in the hospital.
Well, we know you were there. The bill that hospital sent was absolutely horrendous.
Well, I'll pay you that back sometime, Mr. Hillyer.
Rose... I hate to be mean, but... Oh, nevermind, forget it.
What was it, Mr. Hillyer?
Nothing, Rose.
It isn't the fourth dimension. To you it's the fourth dimension, maybe, to me it's simply the truth.
Well, well, well. So Miss Rosebud has arrived. Unhmm. And you're all assembled here. Yes, indeed. Un hmmm.
Good morning, sweetheart. Beautiful day.
Yes, it's so nice I thought I'd work outside.
How goes it, darlin'?
Slow, hon. But at least I can concentrate now that Rose is here.
What do you think of her, honey?
Turn up your hearing aid.
What?
Your hearing aid, it's buzzing at me like a snake.
Oh. Did you say something?
I asked you what you think of Rosebud, now that she's been here a while.
Honey, she's perfect. She works all the time and she's wonderful with the children. And they love her, even Brother likes her though he won't admit it. I think she's just perfect.
Umhmm. Almost too perfect.
And she's such a goodhearted thing, there isn't an ounce of harm or malice in her.
Well, I'll admit I don't see any flies on her yet.
There are no flies on Rose, I don't know what you're talking about.
Well, she must have done something to encourage those scoundrels in Birmingham, even if she did run away from them.
Well, let's hope for the best, darlin'.
Hope for the best? I don't understand all this skepticism. I thought you liked Rose.
I love Rosebud, I am wild about Rosebud. I just hope she doesn't turn out to be a hidden hotcha character, that's all. We have growing children in the house.
Hotcha character. If I had to live with your cynicism, I wouldn't want to live at all. What you can't understand is that the creative forces of the universe are positive, not negative.
All right, darlin', don't go off into the fourth dimension.
I'm not in the fourth dimension   you are in the fourth dimension, when you allow skepticism and doubt to take control. As Blake said, if God had doubt the sun would go out.
Forgive my crudity, darlin'. I don't understand these deeper things the way you do.
Be nice to Rose. She's never had a real home.
You're a wonderful woman, darlin'. As long as you're around, I'm sure the sun wouldn't dare go out.
I'll drive you, darlin'. You've got no business behind the wheel of an automobile. You don't think about what you're doing and you'll run into a telephone pole.
I think about what I'm doing all the time, and I've got as much business behind the wheel of an automobile as anybody. Besides, I want you to stay and help Rose with the dishes, the poor girl isn't feeling well.
All right, darlin'.
What's the matter, hon? Is anything wrong?
No, darlin'. Just that damnable insomnia in reverse. I sleep like a baby for an hour then I'm wide awake. You go back to sleep.
Umhmm. Well, that is the damndest outfit I ever saw in my life. You walk down the street like that and they'll put you in jail, Rose.
Why, they won't either. She looks pretty. And I wish you wouldn't pick on the poor girl all the time. Don't listen to him, Rose, you look pretty, even beautiful.
Lay off of that stuff, son. It upsets your mother.
I'm serious. We forget he's just a child. I wish you'd speak to him.
I'll take him with me downtown. And you, too, Rose, if you want a ride.
They'll put her in jail. The damn little fool might as well be naked.
Well, it is a little tight. But it isn't as bad as all that. No one will notice unless they have such thoughts in the first place.
Who doesn't have such thoughts? We'd better get going.
You're not having lunch?
Just halfacup of coffee. I never eat, darlin', you know that. Not eating and reverse insomnia are my curses. Let's go, Rose, you and Brother, let's hit the road.
Rose, you and Brother wait in the car. I want to speak for a moment Lo Mr. Hillyer.
I wish you wouldn't pick on Rose and tease her like that. Of course her clothes are silly, but she's ignorant, naive, she doesn't know any better.
The girl worries me. If she walks down the street like that, an army will be following her.
Well, I admit that outfit isn't very modest. But she doesn't mean any harm, she just wants to attract, attention.
She will succeed.
I don't think you understand her. It isn't sex she wants, it's love she wants and this is the only way she knows how to get it.
That farmer in Gadsden was awful eager to get rid of her, and I'm beginning to see why.
He and his wife both said she had a fine moral character and was wonderful with children.
Well, she loves children, all right. She loves everybody.
But that's a wonderful quality, not a bad quality. Have a little patience with her. She's such a goodhearted little thing and tries so hard.
You are the one who's goodhearted. As for Rose, let's hope for the best.
Be kind to her. She loves you so much. In a perfectly proper way, of course.
Yes, of course.
Well, she's back.
What time is it?
Quarter of twelve.
Is she all right?
I don't see any bruises or broken bones.
Why shouldn't she go out and have boyfriends?
No reason at all, darlin'.
Well, I wish you'd stop criticizing and picking on her.
Forgive my crudity, darlin'. All I'm saying is that a girl who would wear clothes like that is going to get in trouble sooner or later.
Well, time will tell, won't it?
Yes, darlin', time will tell.
That sulky boy was here again this afternoon. I was almost scared, he wouldn't go away.
Rose, my patience is wearing thin. First a scruffy man who runs like a deer and now a sulky boy who wont go away. This is getting to be a regular monkey and dog show.
Well, it isn't Rose's fault boys and men like her. You cant blame her for that, hon.
Rose, I realize you don't know this boy, but if you know anybody who does know him, if you have even a faint clue as to who he might be, then convey to him that he had better stay away from my house and stop scaring my wife... and I don't mean maybe.
Oh, shut up, Rose. Shut your mouth and quit crying!
I will not sit here and listen to you be brutal to this poor girl.
I am not being brutal to her!
You certainly are! She has an awful toothache, look at her jaw, it's all swollen.
Darlin', it is not my fault if the girl has epizootics 
 I am not responsible for her epizootics and I did not bring about her epizootics. Now listen to me. When I have to get up in the middle of the night and defend my home with a shotgun against a couple of damned scoundrels fistfighting in the bushes 
Scoundrels? They weren't scoundrels, they were just boys.
Boys? You say to me boys?
Yes! Yes, I say that to you, they were boys! Boy friends of Rose, chat's what they were, and why shouldn't she have boy friends? Do you want her to be unnatural? Don't you think she's human the same way you are yourself? It's the South, that's what it is, the South with its horrible traditions, of slavery and crime and the oppression of women, who are just as good as men and just as human!
Now darlin', what has the South got to do with this?
And when I try to talk to you seriously, when I try to explain to you the unlimited creative power of life, how beautiful it would be if we gave up this hopeless struggle and simply loved each other from our hearts, what do you do  you mock me!
I don't intend to mock you, dear. I respect your philosophy. It's beyond my comprehension, but I respect it.
Now you listen to me, Rose 
Just a moment! You are not going to fire this girl for an innocent thing like having boy friends, not while there is breath in my body!
I don't intend to fire her, darlin'.
It isn't her fault if she's popular... what?
I said I don't intend to fire her. I just want to ask her to keep her boy friends away from my home and hearth, that's all.
Well, that's very reasonable. Howe I hate to bring it up, but she's got an awful toothache, we've got to carry her to the dentist.
I'm sorry, darlin', I hate it as much as you do.
Well, she does seem to cause a lot of trouble, I admit. But she doesn't mean any harm and it'll break the children's hearts, they all love her.
It's because of the children she's got to go. I don't want to be holierthanthou, but the girl doesn't have the same outlook we do. Morals don't mean a thing to her, not a thing, and we can't have a girl like that in this house.
Who is to say our morals are better than hers? But maybe you're right. She could... influence Dolly...
That is exactly what I'm afraid of. The girl has got to go, darlin'.
But morals come from the heart, not from rigid rules and empty laws. And in her heart Rose has never hurt anyone and she never would. Therefore, she's not immoral. Not really.
Now look, darlin', this is no time to go off into the fourth dimension.
But what I said is the simple truth. And now I see something else, I see more deeply into it...
How could Rose really be a bad influence on Dolly? She has a loving nature, you ought to want someone like that around your children. Why do you think those boys and men like her?
Well, I have a pretty good idea.
If you mean sex, you couldn't be more wrong. Rose likes those boys and men, she has love in her heart, and that is what they want. It's the most rare and beautiful thing in life and that is why they follow her.
They follow her because she's a   no, I won't say that.
What she doesn't understand is that her behavior is disturbing to other people. She's young, she's got to learn to restrain the life force that's in her. Its creative, but in her case it's too creative.
Darlin', Rose has got to go!
I'll talk to her, I'll reason with her.
Excuse me, sir, are you calling my wife a liar?
Honey, please...
I can't stand that polecat. They ought to hang him.
You don't like him because he's a Yankee. He's a brilliant doctor.
He's a polecat, dear.
Rosebud looked pretty pitiful in that bed. I hope she'll be all right, but I still think we ought to fire her.
I don't see how you can even think of it now.
Honey, Dr. Martinson isn't a rascal, he's one of the finest physicians in Glenville. He studied at Johns Hopkins University.
I don't care where the polecat studied.
Sometimes the negativism and cynicism in you makes me want to vomit. Your real trouble is that you're antiintellectual. The irony is women are supposed to be emotional, but I never saw anybody who depended more on emotion and prejudice than you do.
She's like a different person. Being so sick made a big impression on her. I really think she's learned a lesson.
Umhmm. Come with me, Brother. I want to show you something.
She hasn't actually done anything...
Just a moment, dear. We can't have it, Rose. Can you behave yourself  or not? That is the question, to behave or not to behave, to suffer the slings and arrows of outrageous chastity and keep your skirt down or to hoist it in the light of the moon and make whoopee  that is the coil shuffling question. If you can't behave I am going to fire you and I say it in front of you and Mrs. Hillyer and I mean it. I point my rigid finger right at your nose, Rose, and I stare unwaveringly into your big blue eyes and I tell you... this is a final warning. Do you hear me?
It has been three weeks since I "fired" her. Is there no way to get rid of this girl? Are we stuck with her for life?
She can't get a job, it's a depression. And we can't just throw her out on the street.
The hell we can't.
She does look a little peaky.
No, she doesn't, she's fine, fine. She's perfectly healthy, don't give her ideas.
Her plan is obvious, plain as day. She's going on a hunger strike. The question is, how do we foil her?
She's just nervous and worried. And you would be, too, if you had no job and no place to go.
Something has got to be done or Rose is going to be in this house forever.
Honey, Rose was born on a farm and has terrible memories of farm life. Now I don't think 
Just a minute, Rose, you don't understand. This isn't a dirt farm like the one you were born on, it's nice. A neighbor of Cousin Hop's, I talked to him on the phone, a fine man... it's not a farm, damn it, it's a beautiful dairy establishment! Stop crying, Rose! Do you hear me? Stop crying, it's ideal!
I don't know how you can call it ideal  don't you know what the word "farm" means to her?
I don't give a hoot in hell's hollow what it means to her! She can't stay in this house forever! I fired her, damn it!
It sounds like a farm to me. Calling it a dairy establishment, that's just trickery and flummery.
Trickery and flummery or not, she's going there tomorrow on the bus! It's settled! And I must say we've been more than fair to you, Rose, it's pretty selfish and mean hearted of you to sit there and cry like that!
This is a total catastrastroke. As of this moment I am stumped, I admit, I am stumped and treed both, the hound dogs have me surrounded.
Poor thing, don't cry, Rose. I know you feel awful, but don't cry, honey, nobody's perfect. Who's the father, dear?
You're not going to get anywhere with that line of questioning. The problem is, what are we going to do?
That's why I'm asking her who the father is. It's the most vital question of all. Who's the father, dear?
She already told you, she doesn't know.
But she must know... unless... unless... Rose, was there more than one person?
Ah, ha! Hold the phone! No forwarding address, huh? In the shock of this brilliant move, I forgot something.
What did you forget?
I forgot that Rose will lie like a child. She's no more pregnant than I am, she just doesn't want to go to that farm!
Honey!
She doesn't have to take her panties off, we can see her stomach with 'em on. All she has to do is pull up her dress and let us see her belly.
I'd say about three months. Are you satisfied?
I am poleaxed and in a non compos mentis condition. I wash my hands or the whole thing.
This conversation is making me a little sick.
Honey, that's no way to talk to the Doctor, he's merely doing his job, dear.
Reluctantly, I do. It would be a blessing to her and everyone else. The girl is oversexed and I say  spay her!
Over... my... dead... body!
I thought I knew you. I thought I knew you better, I thought in your heart you were a good and kind man. Well, I can't believe what I've just heard in this room. A defenseless girl depending on you for protection, and you propose to mutilate and destroy her. How could you listen even for a moment to that sadistic man?
Well, now, darlin'... give me a chance to defend myself.
I can't believe you really meant it, if I did I'd want to die. You aren't a male monster, that man is but you aren't. Look me in the eye and tell me, do you really want to take Rose's womanhood away from her when it's all she has got?
Well, I... I hadn't thought about it that much. I was thinking... well, it's an idea, the girl is oversexed, and...
Rose isn't oversexed, that's ridiculous. If you're going to talk nonsense, I don't want to talk to you at all. Rose is exactly the same as the rest of us, except more so.
Well, I know, more so. That's why I was thinking... maybe she'd be better off.
Better off? How could she ever find love and happiness, if you did what you're talking about? Are you insane?
How is she?
Fine.
It's twenty after one.
I don't understand it. Even in the wild days she was never as late as this.
I'm afraid it's my fault. I made her feel guilty this morning  Brother, what are you doing up?
Why, that looks like Dave Wilkie,
Who?
You know Dave, his wife used to do dressmaking for you before she died.
Well, thank God we are rid of her at last. And the best thing of all is that she's happy. The little nut is happy, she found Mr. Right in the nick of time!
Well, yes, she's happy. Of course Dave doesn't have her life force, not at all. There isn't much furniture in his house, just a table and one or two chairs, whereas Rose has furniture coming out of the windows.
Honey, he is Mr. Right.
Yes, I think so. He adores her, it's almost pitiful the way he worships her. I just hope she isn't too much for him.
The point is you don't grow up like that on a diet of sorghum and hominy grits. She got protein somewhere, she's a very strong girl and I think she'll live... despite the delay in medical treatment.
That's all I want to know. Lets get out of here before I get the epizootics myself. Thank you, Doctor, for your discourse, it was fascinating, no doubt.
Well, it's a disaster. I don't know what to say, Doctor, I am floored. How dangerous is the operation?
Any major operation is dangerous. However, as we know from her previous illness, she's a very strong girl.
Well, if it isn't malignant and she can get through the operation all right, it might be better than her really being pregnant. She doesn't even know who the father might have been.
Oh, it's definitely better, beyond question. A fatherless child, an ignorant girl with no job, no money, no home. It's fortunate, a blessing really, and a stroke of good luck for another reason I want to mention to you.
Go ahead, Doctor, I think I am following you.
First, about the girl's history. Evidently she's been very promiscuous since early childhood, she has no control over her sexual impulses. Furthermore, she is permanently barren, she can't have children.
Go on, Doctor.
I am ahead of you.
Then... may I speak quite frankly with you, Mr. Hillyer?
Please do.
I have of course observed the girl in treating her.
Of course.
I think we both know her.
Yes, we know her.
Well, you rascal, where'd you come from?
Hello, Daddy. How are you?
About as good as can be expected with one foot in the grave. Good to see you, son. Did you bring any of that Yankee whisky with you?
It isn't Yankee whisky, Daddy, it's Scotch.
It's Yankee whisky to me.
I can use a drink after the plane ride I had.
Your wife and children are back in New Hampshire in the snow?
Yeah, they're in the snow.
Are they polar bears, too?
Good God, the way you live here. This place hasn't been dusted since Mother died. Look at that goddamned refrigerator.
Got another twenty years in it, boy. By the way, son, do you recall Rose, that pretty blonde girl who came to our house way back in 1935 or 1936 and caused such a damnable commotion.
Of course I recall Rose. In fact I've been thinking of no one else for the last hour and a half.
How could that be, son?
Dave Wilkie of all people was sitting by me on the plane  her first husband. It's funny you would mention Rose. Did you hear from her?
What's all this about Rose? What do you mean, you heard from her in a manner of speaking?
Oh, I heard from her, I got a letter from her, she's fine. But there is some sad news.
What sad news? Did her cancer come back?
Oh, no, no, she got all over that. Rose is fine. Let's sit down, son.
Is her husband sick or something?
No, it's another thing. I was going to write you about it, but since you were coming down anyway I thought I'd wait till you got here. What did Dave Wilkie have to say?
The pitiful son of a bitch said Rose was a nymphomaniac.
Umhmm, and I suppose that incensed you?
You're damn right it incensed me, the miserable bastard. He also said the kikes and the niggers have taken over Washington. D.C.
Yeah, I know, he was up here. It's pitiful like you say. When he lost Rose it ruined the man, it destroyed him totally when he lost Rose.
He didn't lose her, he threw her away.
Yes, I guess he did. He threw her away and it was the mistake of his life.
You know, I don't know this town any more. All this traffic, new buildings, prosperity... Where have the years gone, Daddy? Where is the little town I knew as a boy?
At rest in the creative universe with Mother, son.
That's what she would say herself.
A wonderful woman, boy.
It always gives me a funny feeling to come home. Dear old Southland. Gone. It's all gone, Daddy   except you, you're still here.
Not for long, boy. I've outstayed my welcome already.
It's funny you would mention Rose, I was thinking about her all the way up in the car. Or maybe it isn't so funny.
I'm older than hell, boy. But this Yankee whisky is mighty fine, I'll say that.
All right, Daddy. We have our drink, we're out on the patio, you have prepared me for it. Rose's cancer has come back, hasn't it?
No, son, she is dead.
Dead, Rose is dead? You mean... she died?
I am afraid so, son. About a week ago. Her husband phoned me, she had asked him to call me if anything happened.
But... but how? She was young! Rose wasn't old!
She was fiftysix, son. Of course she didn't look it, nowhere near it. The cancer came back, I'm afraid I fibbed about that. But it was very quick, son. She was in the hospital only two weeks, and the last week she didn't know anything.
Excuse me, I'll be right back.
Well, you have knocked me for a hell of a loop, old man. A hell of a loop.
I know. You loved her. So did I. It was an awful shock to me, too. An awful shock. Rose was so alive it's hard to believe.
I can't believe it, Daddy. I know it must be true, but I can't believe it.
It's true, son. The girl with the cornflower eyes is dead, she is no more,
Why Rose? Why Rose, Daddy?
Nobody lives forever, boy. Who'd want to?
That's a hell of a thing to say. Why, Rose?
Now look, boy, get a grip on yourself. Rose had a good life. She found her. Right, didn't she? She triumphed over everything, what are you blubbering about?
I'm not blubbering.
Rose is almost as sentimental as Mother. If there's one thing I can't stand it's sentimentality. In Chattanooga this man committed an almost perfect murder. He killed his wife with a black widow spider.
Oh, shut up, Buddy.
Daddy says Rose is calm as lettuce. Do you believe that, Doll?
No.
It's pitiful. Neither one of them know.
I think Daddy suspects.
No, he doesn't. Not really.
It's really pitiful. She's in bad shape.
She's watching the car again?
Yeah.
I get so irritated with Daddy. He's so dumb sometimes.
There goes Mother.
Yeah.
Let's go peep from the living room.
Okay.
I think she's gonna kiss him.
At least.
I can't see. What are they doing, what's happening?
They're discussing it.
I can't see, let me see...
This is my place and you can't have it.
Ohhhhh... what's happening now?
He's trying to get up  good God, one of her titties is out!
Let me see!
Now I can't see. What are they doing?
Boy! Wow!
Wow! Brrrother!
What are they doing?
Buddy, this is amazing, you wouldn't believe it.
What are they doing, Doll?
He kissed her.
Is that all?
He had his hand on her titty.
Let me look. Awwrr...
She's putting the titty back.
Buddy, that was my place.
Buddy, that was pretty snotty of you, pushing me away like that just when it was interesting.
You shouldn't watch such things, Doll.
Wasn't Daddy wonderful? He wanted to kiss her some more and play with her, but he didn't, because he loves Mother and all of us, and he loves Rose, too. Isn't he wonderful, isn't he great?
Wonderful? He kissed her and played with her titty, and I don't see anything so great about that. He was probably afraid Mother would come back early and catch him.
You know, Buddy, sometimes you make me sick.
No, Mother, he's lying...
Shut up, Doll. I'll cut your guts
Chattanooga. I had St. Louis, Missouri.
Buddy, I'm worried about Rose.
So am I.
She hasn't got any sense. In some ways, she's awful dumb.
It isn't that she hasn't got any sense, Doll. Her basic intelligence is probably above average, maybe quite a bit above average.
Then why does she act so dumb?
Dumbness doesn't concern her, Doll. And neither does smartness. You see 
What is Rose going to do? Where can she go?
They've been in there the longest kind of time. I can't stand it, I gotta find out what's going on.
You better not snoop, Daddy'll kill you!
What's happening?
Mother is struggling desperately. In fact she's fighting like a tiger. But I don't know, it's close, it's mighty close.
Buddy... does Rose really... "do it" with all those boys and men?
Doll, don't ask childish questions.
Well, if she's got any sense at all, she'll listen to that.
Sense doesn't mean anything to Rose. But I think we're on safe ground now. Daddy chained up the ladder, whoever it is can't get in the house.
What's goin' on?
Rose says she's goin' to have a baby and she sure looks it, but I don't think so.
A baby... and she isn't even married.
That's the least of her troubles. Rose had a rare tropic disease and the little tubes in her that babies swim down are all stopped up, she told me all about it.
If it isn't a baby... what is it?
Why is it taking so long?
Here comes Daddy.
The new girl is here.
Wonderful. What's she like, Brother? What is your impression of her?
She talks a great deal and smiles a lot. She's very pretty, she has a real good figure. She's very girlish or womanish, if you know what I mean. She wouldn't hurt anybody, this girl. She couldn't.
Your impression is very reassuring, Brother. Of course she's had troubles, poor thing, but I sensed that was that the girl was like and I'm glad to have it reconfirmed.
You mean confirmed, Mother. I didn't confirm it before. I would have had to confirm it previously, in order for it to be reconfirmed.
All right, all right. Doll and Waski are upstairs taking their nap, you go get them and bring them down to the living room. Where is the girl?
In the kitchen drinking all the ice water in Glenville. She walked out here, she didn't go by the hotel.
Walked, in all that heat? It's a wonder she hasn't got sunstroke. I'll phone Daddy and you go get Doll Baby and Waski.
Brother, when I have to wake you up at eleven o'clock in the morning you're either sick or you were up very late last night. And you weren't reading Huckleberry Finn. I looked and its not in your room. Now what were you doing?
Mother, I have to tell the truth. I wasn't reading Huckleberry Finn, I was reading one of those Little Dirty Comic Books.
Oh, Brother, I am so disappointed in you. You mustn't look at those horrible things, they degrade the human image.
Mother, cant you make it calomel instead of castor oil?
This is for your own good. When you look at negative, destructive things like those little filthy comic books, you are sick. Here, take this.
Geccch, yehh, guhhhh!
Stop gagging like that and putting on a show, and swallow it.
Uhhh, gahdam stuff!
What did you say, Brother?
I said ahhhdam stuff.
No, you didn't say that, Brother.
Yes, I did, mother. Your hearing aid isn't working right. I said ahhhdam stuff.
Children, children! Be quiet, all of you! The vibrations in this house are strange today. Where's Rose, anyhow?
She's getting herself up to go out.
What'd you say, Brother?
She's getting herself up to go out. I think she's coming down the hall now.
Oh, yes, it's Thursday. Hello, Rose, dear... ... my, you're... looking pretty...
Heh, what a hypocrite.
I do wish you'd speak to Brother. It's true he's been looking at those horrible little books again.
Excuse me, gotta go to bathroom.
Now I have a plan about Rose, an educational plan. She's getting better and we don't want any more trouble  Brother, you ought to hear this.
I'll be right back.
You were up late last night, Brother.
Well, a little.
Reading dirty comic bocks. And you admitted it?
Well, yeah.
Son, was Rose in your room last night?
No. Why should Rose be in my room?
I never saw anything like it. How did she pick him up so fast?
I don't know.
The girl strikes like a cobra.
Is that Doctor still up there, Brother.
Yeah, he's still up there.
What's taking the rascal so long?
What do you think, Brother?
I don't know. But you better watch him like a hawk, if he comes back again.
He's not coming back again. We scared the rascal off, son. Come on back to supper. Your mother has a theory about how to educate Rose.
See that, son? Now this is a heel, see, and there, that's the ball of a foot. Someone has been walking here.
Well, it's not very plain.
That is because it rained recently, the rain has obscured the evidence. But you could still take plaster casts of these footprints, then match up the plaster casts with whosever shoes they are, and that way you could catch him  understand?
But how would you find him?
Well. Well, what I mean is, you could prove it was his shoes if you did catch him. But look this, Brother, it is even more interesting. Look at this mark here, and that mark over there. Now wouldn't you say those marks are the marks of a ladder?
Well, I don't know. No, I don't know, Daddy, I think the rain has obscured it.
True, but if you look sharply you can see that those marks are the marks of a ladder. Now let's go back to the garage and see if the ladder has been tampered with.
See, son? The paint is flaked off here, freshly. Look at it, Brother, there is no question about it. Some person or persons unknown have very recently tampered with this ladder.
Well... maybe...
And there's only one reason anybody would want this ladder  to get up into Rose's bedroom in the dark of night! I am going to chain up this ladder and padlock it!  and that is not all I am going to do!
Open that door, damn you!
Daddy, what's the matter?
She's got somebody in there, Brother! His shoes are on the back porch  there they were, naked and smiling at me! Rose, open this door immediately!
I heard you talking. Hasn't Rose come in?
No, she hasn't. I think I hear a car.
Neither do I.
Oh, Waski, you don't even know what we're talking about.
I do, too.
Yeah, I know.
Oh, Waski, you don't know anything.
I do, too!
All right, what do you know?
Rose is madly in love with Daddy...
He did lie, and... and... and Mother, yesterday he stole money out of your pocketbook!
Quiet, you little muddyeyed brat, or Ill kill you!
Of course not!
Oh, Waski, you don't even know what we're talking about.
Lots of things. Buddy, mostly.
Buddy. Well, now, that's a nice name, I like it. I am real pleased to meet you. Hey, look, do you think you got a cold drink of ice water somewhere?
Sure. Let me take your suitcase.
Rose, who were those scoundrels in Birmingham?
Nobody.
But who were they?
They were just bad men, that's all.
In what sense were they bad?
Bad is bad, Buddy. There ain't no sense to it.
Did they try to induce you to become a prostitute?
Was that what they tried to do? Was that why Daddy gave you the job, to save you from those scoundrels?
Your Daddy is a wonderful man, I'll say that. He's the best and most kindhearted man in the world.
Hey, Rose, did you hear about that terrible thing down in Cave Springs?
What terrible thing in Cave Springs?
There was this old man that ate his niece.
I didn't hear you. I didn't hear that.
He really did, he ate his little niece. He made pork chops out of her.
I don't hear you. I just turn my back on that kind of talk and look away.
Well, it's only the truth. There are horrible things in the world, Rose.
Buddy, you are in one of your evil moods, I don't want to talk to you. I'm going out and sweep the patio.
No, I'm awake. What's the matter?
Buddy, I am wandering in a wilderness, lost. I just feel awful. Do you mind if I get in bed with you for a little while?
Well, all right.
I thought I'd go crazy back there in that room all by myself with nobody to talk to. As a child, I never had no room all to myself, we were awful poor. Buddy... I have got a confession to make.
What is it, Rose?
It's so terrible I can't tell you. Oh, Buddy, you don't know how it hurts to have a broken heart, what a terrible feeling it is, and I've had a broken heart so many times. Men, I don't understand them, I can't figure them out and they break my heart, that's all. I can't find Mr. Right, Buddy, I can't find him no matter how hard I look, all I find is a whole pile of Mr. Wrongs. But this is the worst ever because it wasn't his fault. It was my fault, oh yes, my fault, I was bad  oh God, I was bad, you wouldn't believe how bad I was.
What'd you do, Rose?
Buddy, I was horrible. I can't tell you who it was, but do you know what I did? I sat on his lap and got ahold of him and wiggled and wiggled my ass on him and was worse'n you could know, a child like you. Why, I let one of my tits fall out deliberate on purpose and practically smack him in the face with it and I let my dern skirt come up so he could see my drawers... But to get back serious to what I was sayin', it is not only, Buddy, the loss of him but my own bad behavior what bothers me so...
You were pretty bad, huh?
Why, it has just made me ill, Buddy. I'm sick. I don't want to eat nothin', I don't, and me I got a good appetite, that ain't nat'ral for me. I'm ill.
But, Rose, what is the cause of it all?
Promise not to tell Doll?  or nobody? Buddy, it's your Daddy! I'm so much in love with him I am out of my mind!
But, Rose, how could such a thing as that happen?
I fell madly in love with him when he called me Rosebud. You know that first day when I come and he said I looked graceful like a capital letter S and called me Rosebud? I fell madly in love with that man right then. But it's a lost love, Buddy. He's a good man and won't have nothin' to do with me.
Hmmm, it's soft. It's awful soft.
What did you expect?
Well, I thought they were more like a cantaloupe.
Ha ha ha, that's some idea, a cantaloupe.
There's some kind of gristle in it, though.
Buddy, quit that, you're just a child, you're not supposed to be interested in such things.
Actually, I am, though.
You know, that Daddy of yours is the funniest man, the things he says, you never know what's going to come out of his mouth next.
Can I put my hand inside your nightgown, Rose?
No, you can't. And I'll tell you this  he scares me. As kind as he is, he scares me. You can't fool around with him, not with that man. And, boy, I sure better not try nothin' like that with him again, he'll fire me.
Rose, can't I see what the nipple on it is like?
Buddy, what's come over you? A child like you, askin' such things.
But I'm curious, Rose.
Just for a second. Please, Rose, what's the harm?
Buddy, you don't realize it but what you're doing isn't nice.
Aw, come on, Rose, I want to see what the nipple on it is like.
You don' t need to know that. It's none of your business.
Aw, be a good sport, Rose. You like me, don't you? I like you a lot.
Well, are you satisfied now? Can we just lie and talk, huh?
Hmmph. It has a nipple, all right.
'Course it does.
First I couldn't feel it, but now I feel it easily, it's like a little acorn.
All right, that's enough. You're just a child and wouldn't understand it, but that type of thing can stir a girl up. Now lie back and we'll talk.
That was very interesting. Thank you, Rose.
Don't mention it.
It was softer'n I thought, that was my main impression. You know, if you hit a girl there it would hurt her a lot.
Who would want to do such a thing as that?
Well, some fiend might.
You know, Buddy, sometimes I can't figure you out at all. You can be very nice, but like your mother said there's an evil streak in you.
There's an evil streak in everybody, Rose.
There ain't none in your Daddy. You know, what happened has just made me love him all the more. I not only love him, I respect him, I admire him.
Rose, I have a serious favor to ask you.
Most men wouldn't do what he done. If they can get a girl they go right ahead and get her  I guess to hell they do, just like a dern rabbit. 'Course later they'll tell her she's no good when they done the same thing their selves. They're a bunch of monkeys. I like 'em, but they're a bunch of monkeys.
Rose, since you're here in bed with me and everything and I've already touched your titty...
Why, Buddy, shut your mouth! What an awful thing to say, and where did you get any such idea as that, anyhow?
I'm curious to see what it's like. I'm very curious, Rose.
Well, now that is just too bad! Curiosity killed the cat.
Yeah, but satisfaction brought him back. Can I?
No! You ought to be ashamed of yourself astin' such a nasty things a child your age!
Can't I touch it a little, Rose  not a lot, just a little?
Of course you can't! I'm... I'm shocked at you, Buddy, real shocked! Now you be quiet or I'm going back to my own bed!
Please, Rose. I'm curious, that's all, I have a natural curiosity, it's only human. You're my friend, aren't you? Don't you like me? I like you, Rose, a lot  in fact, I love you.
Well, you're sweet, but you don't really love me.
Yes, I do. Please, Rose, be a good sport.
Buddy, you're just a child.
I'm thirteen. And I have a natural curiosity. It's only nature, Rose, that's all. Now what's wrong with nature, huh?
Well, nothin'.
You better quit that.
But Rose...
I must be outta my mind. Buddy, quit it.
Am I hurting you?
No. No, you're not hurting me. But I think you better quit it.
But why, if I'm not hurting you?
You wouldn't understand. Oh, God, I must be outta my mind. What would your Momma think?
Rose, are you all right? Are you sick or something?
No. No, I'm all right. Oh, God, what have I done? I have robbed a cradle and fallen into hell! I must be crazy, a child like you. Oh, God, oh, Lord. This is awful, this is terrible, I gotta get outta here!
Buddy, you wouldn't tell nobody, would you?
Don't worry, Rose, I won't tell a soul.
I sure hope you don't. I gotta get outta here, good night.
Good night, Rose.
I hate to turn on this light, you Daddy's awake downstairs, but I have to take the chance. Buddy, please don't tell on me.
I said I wouldn't.
Buddy, I have to ask you, as bad as I've been please have pity on me and don't ruin me by telling them what I did. I know it was bad, it was bad and dumb. But mostly it was dumb, I didn't mean you no harm, I'd never want to hurt a hair on your head and that's the truth. I love you. But they'd think I did, they'd think I was awful, they'd despise me and hate me...
Rose, they could stick splinters under my fingernails, and I will never say a word! I will never tell them, because... I love you!
Oh, Buddy, you do love me! I knew you did, knew it all the time...
Well, Ill tell you this. I have learned a lesson tonight. I wasn't gonna run around, but when I start botherin' your Daddy and worse robbin' a cradle, I gotta face the facts of life. Tomorrow mornin', I'm gonna get myself up and go out.
You're going to get yourself up and go out?
Buddy, Mr. Right is out there somewhere and I'm gonna find him!
Here comes Daddy.
I have a knack for designing clothes. But I had to buy the shoes and the pocketbook.
Did your Momma really give you castor oil?
Yeah.
You're my sweetheart.
Rose, you must know who the fellow is.
Well, he might be that man who followed me home from the store the other day. But I don't know who he is, Buddy, I really don't.
I got an awful toothache.
Rose, if you don't keep your boyfriends away from the house, Daddy is going to fire you.
But I don't know who they are.
Oh, he's so kind, so gentle inside, and so unhappy with that rich wife who doesn't understand him, her being a Southerner and everything, and what a bedside manner he has got  so gentle and kind beneath the professor way he acts!
Rose, you are too uncritical of people.
You don't know the bedside manner that man has got. Why, it does me good just to see him sit there all solemn and go pokin' in his bag like he's gonna cure me, which he did of course. And even more important he loves me, like a patient I mean, the other day he got tears in his eyes just listenin' to my heart beat.
He did?
Yeah, he tried to hide it but I saw 'em, and a little bit he says to me, "You know, you are beautiful." Now wasn't that a nice thing for a doctor to say to a patient, wasn't it? What could cheer a girl up more?
Rose, I have got doubts about that doctor and so does Daddy.
He's got doubts about hisself and that's the saddest thing of all. Would you believe that poor man thinks nobody likes him?
Yeah, I'd believe it.
Well, I like him. I used to be afraid of doctors but not any more. Why, he could operate on me any old time and I wouldn't even be scared.
Rose, you are just entirely too uncritical of people.
I ain't neither. Listen here, Buddy, besides all his vast medical knowledge, he has the most kindest heart beneath the professor way he acts  he wants justice in the world and he's got some real interestin' ideas.
Oh, Buddy, they're gonna cut me all up! They're gonna cut my stummick all open, I'll die!
You won't die, Rose.
Buddy, I'm scared, I'm scared!
I gotta find out what they're saying. You lie back and rest, Rose, and I'll give you a report on it.
I don't want to know...
Hi, Buddy. How's my sweetheart who never told on me when I was bad?
Okay.
Makin' homes for purple martins, huh? We had 'em on the farm. They're the prettiest things. That's what I wish I was, a bird. Just fly around catch bugs and have a lot of fun.
What are you going to do, Rose?
Take a little walk with me, huh?
I guess I'll work as a waitress, Buddy. I done that before and it got me in worse trouble than you could know, but I can't stay here no more. Why did you get rid of your rabbits, Buddy?
They're dumb things. I got tired of them.
Did you know when I was a child we had pretty near five hundred rabbits?
Five hundred rabbits?
Yep, we had 'em in orange crates all over. It was Daddy's dream. He was goin' to get rich raisin' rabbits. It was what killed Daddy. He didn't drown hisself till a long time later after Momma and Lunette died of typhoid, but it was them rabbits what killed him.
How did the rabbits kill him?
He thought he could sell 'em, but nobody but country folks eat rabbits, Buddy, and they ain't got no money. We had to eat them dern rabbits our own selves. Every dern one, and it took about four years to eat 'em all up.
Well, that doctor said you got protein somewhere and I guess he was right.
Boy did I get sick of rabbit. But later on after Momma died and Daddy wasn't doin' nothin' but drinkin', I sure would of been glad for a little rabbit stew. You know, I oughtn't to of told you about what Daddy done when I was a child. Until them rabbits ruined him, he was a real good man, Buddy.
What was your mother like?
A saint just like your own mother. She's up in heaven right now, her and Lunette, there ain't no doubt about it.
Maybe it was eating all those rabbits that made you sexy, Rose.
Buddy, sex don't mean a thing to me. It ain't nothin' but a mosquito bite. I'll tell you a secret. Girls don't want sex, Buddy, girls want love.
They're filthy, Mother.
Sex isn't ugly, sex is one of the most beautiful things in life, the creative power of the universe is behind it.
I know, Mother.
But we must respect that power, we must be in awe of it.
I am in awe of it, Mother.
I don't think you are sufficiently in awe of it. Get the castor oil.
Oh, Mother, not the castor oil.
This isn't punishment, I don't believe in punishment. It's for your health. Obviously you're sick if you can act like that.
Yes?
Is Rose here?
She must have gone out for a walk with the children.
Well, I got to see her.
She isn't here. And I'm sorry, but Mr. Hillyer doesn't want her to have callers during working hours.
Where is she?
I said she isn't here. NOW you go home. Be a nice boy and go home.
I've been dreaming about you.
Day or night?
Could we go somewhere?
I'm heading out of town.
Okay.
What?
I could go out of town.
Could you?
Where to?
A place you've never been.
That's the physicist's playground.
Why am I doing this?
It's an experiment.
We flopped the first time out.
At the subatomic level, particles obey their own logic. They connect in unimaginable ways.
Could be.
What universe are you in, Paul?
A quantum one.
Nothing is real until it's perceived.
The Buddhists have been saying that for a millennium.
How?
Of what?
God. I dunno. The eternal nothingness. Mia.
What did it want?
That's what it asked me. "What do you want?" I didn't answer. I was in the middle of an experiment.
Like now?
No. I didn't. I'm listening.
Inside every semiconductor... you have two particles, with opposite charges, separated by an impassable barrier...
She's in L.A., he's in the Bay area 
A five hundred foot thick steel wall. But the connection between these two electrons is so 
Dysfunctional 
That they tunnel, magically, through any obstacle, defying the practical laws of physics, in order to end up together 
And glow happily ever after.
I didn't want to leave things the way we did. Not this time.
Wait. I want to tell you something.
I've been dreaming about this.
Then you get it. You'll understand.
What?
Why?
So I can move on. You too.
To isolation. To an armed camp. To a biblical spoof of a crazed father firing a gun at his only son.
You taking any medication?
Don't waste it Pauly. This is not an everyday talk. Just input the information and ask relevant questions. One: how did a celebrated life of the mind bring me to this particular switching station?
Dad...
Two: what if I didn't miss?
You did.
Spare me your classical answer. Measurements in. Results taken. What if I didn't miss?
You did miss 
 What if your seven and a half precious liters were downloading over the parquet floor? What then? What did your life mean? Who did you nurture, Pauly? Who did you love?
What was her name?
Excuse me???
What was her name? The one I met.
Mia...?
Yes....
Yep. Everything settled.
Good. Well, I'll be seeing you.
I'm glad they didn't hold you downtown.
They didn't have a leg to stand on. There's no case against me. It's a clumsy thing to have happen, but nothing to worry about.
Well, any time I can do anything for you 
Thanks.
Have you got it? Is it completed?
Yes, sir, it's here on the truck, but it's pretty heavy  I'll need help.
Otto! You and one of those other fellows! Come help Professor Darcey.
Shall we unpack it?
Yes.
I'd be glad to, Mr. Igor. I think I'll have somethin' to tell you soon.
You have done well, and now I, too, have something for you. Come.
She is the soul of that statue.
I wonder if I could have her pose for me.
What are you laughing at?
He can't hear you.
I'd know him anywhere.
Don't lose sight of him. This is the most important thing in my life.
If my curiosity is not too great, would you mind telling me what manner of animal this is you are designing?
One of the maidsinwaiting for that Elizabethan group.
And he isn't struck dead! This man, he lives! It would be interesting to know, young man, where and when you studied anatomy.
That doesn't seem so bad to me. What is wrong with it?
Everything, my friend. And you hope to be a great sculptor  A great sculptor. Look  this forearm is at least two inches too long.
But the composition as a whole  I've tried to keep a sketchy freedom.
If it is freedom to represent people with limbs that don't match  cripples  you have achieved your purpose. Anatomy! Heaven forgive you. You must have studied with a sideshow of freaks!
To lunch.
To lunch, you say. I am having coffee and sandwiches sent in. We are not leaving until we have everything ready for the opening.
But I have some friends waiting.
That is unfortunate. They will have to wait.
I will only be gone about half an hour.
If you leave before the work is done, you will be gone for a much longer period ... you will be gone for good.
All right, I'll tell them. They're right here in front.
I wouldn't feel too disappointed at the slimness of your audience tonight, Mr. Igor. The weather was against you, and the people are tired and getting over their celebration and preparing to go to work tomorrow.
Quite so. Quite so. And you, my little friend, my little Marie Antoinette. It is kind of you to be present.
I came back for some of the books. I am trying to straighten out the accounts. I don't hope to impress you, but I may as well tell you: We haven't a farthing!
That is unfortunate.
Your money may have been well invested, my friend. Something important may come of all this.
Something important has got to come of it! Do you know that the rent on this place isn't paid?
Is that a fact?
No  I'm lying to amuse myself! Now look here, I've an idea that will get us out of all this. We haven't twopence between us, but we've got these.
Fire insurance!
Yes, there's our way out. A fire in this place would give us ten thousand pounds.
A fire! Is this your idea of humor, my friend?
I want the money back I've thrown into this rubbish heap.
You are asking to burn these people ... you are asking? ...
I'm not asking you anything. I'm telling you what I'm going to do!
And you think I will permit this, my friend?
You've got to permit it! Whose fault is it that no one comes here? The museum at Walston Lane does well enough, and why? They've got Jack the Ripper, Burke and Hare, the Mad Butcher, the Demon Barber of Fleet Street and things people pay to see.
And they are welcome to them. To perpetuate such creatures is to celebrate their crimes.
Well, what do you think I'm in this for? Think of it, man, a match  a cigar stub  and ten thousand pounds to divide between us!
You're insane.
Not at all  let me show you how easily it can be done.
You are too gracious. These things have some merit, I suspect ... but this ... I am convinced, is fine.
Even those delicate veins, the texture of this flesh  I have never seen anything more exquisite.
My partner believes that I should build a horror chamber, immortalizing the hideous crimes and criminals of London. At such times Marie Antoinette has reassured me, she has promised me recognition for the devotion I gave to her.
She will undoubtedly keep her promise. If you'll grant me the privilege, I'd like to submit this work to the Royal Academy when I get back.
You will have won the undying gratitude of us all. Is that not so, Marie Antoinette?
I regret I can't spend the time I'd like with your exhibition, but I'm going to worry the life out of you when I come back.
It will always afford me great pleasure to see you.
Good night, sir.
Good night. And I am very grateful to you.
Yeah. I suppose you people will crucify me for something I didn't do. I didn't! You understand that! ... I didn't do it! She  tried before 
Come on, old man, that won't do. You know you're innocent until proven guilty.
Yes, sure, that's fine. While I'm proving my innocence, you people are going to uncover every petty kid trick I ever did ... you're going to write editorials about every cocktail I ever drank. Anything that any sane, normal person might have done will have a sinister meaning, if I did it. Go on! Get out! I don't want to talk to you!
Listen, kid. You're in a tough spot, and you can make it a whole lot easier for yourself if you cut out the crybaby stuff 
Crybaby?
That's what I said.
My lawyers will be on the job in a little while, and I warn you people anything you print about me you've got to prove. Dad won't stand for
Your dad has stood for plenty. Now let's get down to cases. When did you see the Dale girl last?
For a few minutes the afternoon before  before 
Hmmm. Why didn't you tell that to the police?
They didn't give me a chance. We had a couple of drinks and she was all right then. She seemed happy.
Uhhuh. Do you remember what she said? What did you talk about?
She laughed and told me that we were being silly, that we didn't care for each other any more but we needn't hate each other ... ... She said she wanted to be friends.
I see. Was that all she said?
We planned a trip for her. I was going to send her to Bermuda.
You weren't going with her?
No. Why didn't I take her out somewhere? But she was laughing and seemed so happy.
Well, let's get back to the case in hand. They ordered an autopsy and discovered her body had been stolen from the morgue.
Stolen! What are you trying to do to me? ... You're working with the police! ... You're trying to make me say something that can be used against me! You're trying ...
Hold on, hold on. I'm trying to help you, if you're on the square, and I think you are.
Then why are you telling me a crazy lie? ...
That happens to be the truth.
Who'd steal her body?
That's what they're going to ask you.
Now look here. It's not up to us to do our own detective work. I've had enough trouble over this matter. I don't want anything more to do with it.
Not even if it gives you a clean bill of health?
Not even then. The police are the proper people to conduct this affair. Now if you've got any suspicions I'll drive you to the nearest police station.
What! And let every rag in town grab a redhot story? Not so you could notice it! Now, look, I want you to drive me around the corner and wait for me.
I told you I didn't want to mix in it.
All right, brother. Then you can go to some nice warm place, and I don't mean California.
Please. I'm sorry. I'll see it through. What do you want me to do?
I told you what to do. Drive around the corner out of sight of the house. I want to get a closer look at the place.
There she is! You'll find Joan Gale in that box.
No  No  I  I  I don't want to see it.
Why?
You go in for dangerous things.
Darned if I don't!
and so determined to live that I'm going to get out and take a taxi if you don't watch where you're going.
I suppose this is going to sound absurd. I've only known you twentyfour hours, but I'm in love with you.
It doesn't usually take that long, but I'll forgive you  you were in a tough spot when I met you.
No, really  I'm crazy about you.
Oh, is that what caused it?
You don't believe me. You think I'm just talking. Will you marry me?
How much money have you got?
Heaven knows. A lot.
Well, that being the case, I'll take it up with the board of directors. Hey, listen, aviator, here we are!
What is it? What happened?
Don't ask any questions. Come on!
Fine, thanks.
Gee, honeybunch, I'm sorry  I'm going to have to disappoint you.
Don't worry  she'll get used to it.
He might get some publicity out of it.
No use. He's a crab, I tell you.
Who? Old Santa Claus there? That's easy for anyone with my sex appeal. He's a pushover. Watch me stand that old dodo on his ear.
Nix, Flo  he won't let you in and you'll only get me in Dutch.
Horsefeathers!
What are you people doing out in the middle of the night?
I'm after news, as usual. I wonder if it would be all right for me to slip in and look around your factory?
I guess so. But wouldn't it be better for you to wait until the old man's here?
Well, I'll tell you a secret. I kinda like the old gent and I'm trying to build a special Sunday Magazine story out of him. It might help him a whole lot. But that's a side issue  something I do on my own time.
Gee, that's great. After the bad opening that night the old boy was pretty blue. This will pep him up. Have you told him about it?
No. I wanted to do it without saying anything. I think he's worth it.
Ralph, come here a minute, will you?
Better cut that out. That's what happens to girls who bite their nails. What's wrong?
Where'd you get the stag hound?
He's not a stag hound. His name is Kelly and he's a police dog.
What do you mean police dog?
Plainclothes man. Come on, slaves, drink and be merry for tomorrow you might be appointed correspondent to Washington ... a fate worse than death.
Listen, Flo, cut it out. HardTack is pretty sore.
Ain't that something. The mad monk of Manhattan. Here goes nothing. Listen to the animal cracker roar like a lion.
I told you he was a sore.
Stories scarcer than caviar at a street cleaner's banquet, and he says, bring me a yarn. All I have to do is get a story.
Here's a wow.
Call the Homicide Squad!
How's every little thing?
Fine. You're the first reporter in here for two hours. You people seeing the old year out?
I'm people which the old year saw out. I'm canned, fired!
No kiddin'.
I've got to make news, if I have to bite a dog. Hey, Kelly! Oh, mi gosh, even he walked out on me.
I've got a story for you. You know the Joan Gale girl?
Yes, she committed suicide yesterday. That's not news. I heard about it last year.
Oh, yeah? Maybe she didn't commit suicide. She may have been murdered!
No foolin'  any suspect?
Do you know George Winton?
Old Howard Winton's cub?
That's the one.
They don't suspect <I>him</I>?
Don't they? He's down at The Tombs right now.
Say, if you're stringin' me, OldTimer ...
Why would I string y'? They were sweeties until a month ago.
What does that prove?
Nothing. Only she may have tried to blackmail him. You know such things have happened. Anyway, he was at her apartment a few hours before she was found dead.
Hotcha! Saved, one job!
Make it snappy, Colonel.
There's an autopsy ordered at Bellevue immediately. You better skip over there.
Don't give this to anybody else, will you?
It's all yours.
Thanks.
Yes, sir. I got in the cab and it was layin' there on the floor.
Where were you going when you got in that cab?
I don't remember. Not so very far
Don't remember what day that was, do you?
No, sir. About three months ago.
You didn't happen to be going to Worth's place, did you?
No, sir, I'm sure it wasn't there.
You used to go to Worth's place a whole lot. What makes you sure it wasn't there?
Well, maybe it was. I don't remember. You got to do something for me, I can't stand it any longer  I can't!
As I live and breathe and wear spats ... the prince.
Been doing experiments with Scotch and soda again?
Where did you get the news item? From a little bird?
Yeah. Have a pleasant vacation?
Charming. More delightful people crippled.
Great. Consider yourself crippled  financially. See if you can jar your charming friends loose from enough to eat on.
Meaning what?
That you're a sure bet to place in the bread line. There's no room on this rag for the purely ornamental. You're easy on the eyes and pretty conceited about it.
I'm through clowning. You're all washed up. Get out!
What do you mean, you poor ham! This is New Year's!
All right, what about it? We get out a paper just the same. Did you ever stop to think of that?
Well, is it my fault if nothing happens?
And how does one go about getting these human documents, may I inquire?
That is none of our business. But you bring me something for the next edition if it's only a recipe for spaghetti!
Quick, Watson, the cookbook!
Well, ain't that a shame. Nice little chappie that wouldn't harm a fly ... everybody picking on the little fellow.
If this kid was some unknown soda jerker, they wouldn't have pinched him. But he's George Winton and they're playing him up. It's a Roman holiday for every paper hat editor in New York.
Why the goose pimples? If he wasn't social register  if it was somebody like me, you'd be trying to hang him.
I wouldn't be trying, beloved. I would hang him! And another thing, all this gaga about the body disappearing. Eight bodies have been stolen in New York within the last eighteen months. Doesn't it seem more reasonable to hook this up from that angle?
And ruin a perfectly good story? Don't be silly.
No, I mean it. I think this kid's entitled to a break.
He's getting a break, ain't he? He's front page.
You give me a pain!
I'm glad to hear it. When did you go in for crusading in the cause of justice? This lousy mug, with all the money in the world, has had two or three nasty affairs. He's kept out o' print because his great grandfather was smarter than the Indians.
Well, anyway, he couldn't have copped that body  he was in jail.
You don't think he'd be sap enough to do the job himself. I hope they give him the works. Even if he didn't kill the kid, he's responsible for her death, and they can fry him any time without making me sore.
Well, I won't work on it from that angle.
Oh, you won't  you were pretty tough about Judge Ramsey  a little while ago 
And they never proved anything against him.
Except that he disappeared when things got too hot.
Or was bumped off by someone who was afraid of him.
Whooey  he took a runout powder.
Well, that's got nothing to do with this case. Can I handle this my way?
You cannot. I'm still editor of this sheet.
All right, you said I was fired. Well, I quit! Give the assignment to somebody else.
Hey, come here, Sobsister!
Nope, I'm through!
On the square, Jimmy, if you'd seen Winton down there  I'm not holding a brief for him  maybe he's a dirty pup, but he's scared and hysterical  and so kinda dumb and worthless ...
Great! ... If he's worthless we'll give him away as a bridge prize. Come on  beat it. It's five o'clock. You need some sleep.
No, there's another point I want to iron out.
Sleep on it ... we'll get it tomorrow.
Which one is me? The horse?
Get out of here.
Come in, Prussic Acid. What's on your mind?
I want to see the original pictures of Joan Gale.
Hey, Mattie, dig into the morgue and send up all the art you have on Joan Gale.
Well, why so mysterious! Come on, spill it.
So you can give me an argument and tell me I'm wrong. Don't be sil, Kid.
I am right! I know I'm right!
Well, no one would ever suspect it. You don't sound right.
Listen, Jim  and if you wisecrack while I'm talking I'll crown you with the inkwell.
All right, wise guy. Go ahead. Spill it.
Jim, there's a little hokeypokey wax museum opening up down on 14th Street.
Now don't that call for an extra!
I asked you to keep your trap shut!
Well, you can't blame a guy for getting a little breathless with a scoop like that.
All right, you poor baboon, you can guess the rest of it!
No kiddin'. What's your idea?
Just this  I got a look at that dump a little while ago and if they haven't got a wax figure of Joan Gale in that lineup, then I'm crazy.
We'll grant that.
What!
About the Gale girl, I mean. Where do we go from there? What of it?
Listen, Jojo. Does this mean anything to you? Joan Gale's body swiped from the morgue  Did you ever hear of such a thing as a death mask?
I used to be married to one.
And it came to life and divorced you. I know all about that. Now my idea is this: Somebody swipes the girl's body, takes impression, makes a mold, produces wax figure ... Bingo! ... Peddles it to this old skate down there!
Work that up into a comic strip and syndicate it.
Let it go.
Come down to earth. Do you think they would dare do anything like that? Don't you think they'd know that figure would be recognized? Shake your head real hard  you'll be all right.
All right, Master Mind. But there's something cockeyed about that joint and I'm going to find out what it is.
Oh, by the way, another pet theory of yours just blew up.
What do you mean?
That dear, innocent Judge Ramsey that you were so sure got bumped off for knowing too much has been located in South America.
No kiddin'?
Almost certain.
Almost! I'll still bet I'm right, and let you write your own ticket.
Mit me, kid. I've got a classic.
You here again like an evil spirit to mar my happiness?
This one's a story, but I'm not going to tell you what it is. Every time I tell you anything it goes haywire.
What do you mean  haywire? You start out after murderers and come back with threeforadime bootleggers. You start to solve murder mysteries and break up crap games. You're grand! I'm for you! Stupendous!
Say, you're always razzing everything I do, but this is one time I'm in.
Go on, little girl, take your troubles somewhere else. I don't feel like talking to you.
Was there any art on Judge Ramsey?
What goofy idea have you got now? Don't tell me you suspect Judge Ramsey of stealing the body.
I'm going to make you eat dirt, you soap bubble! I'm going to make you beg for somebody to help you let go!
Listen, stupid, could I do anything that would possibly meet with your approval?
Yes, you could. Cut out this rotten business and act like a lady. Marry me.
That's what I said.
I'm going to get even with you, you dirty stiff! I'll do it!
What! What are you talking about?
The body of Joan Gale!
Hello, Express. What's the idea, trying to outsmart the police?
I'm not kidding. Joan Gale's body is packed in the box in the basement, and I saw the most horrible thing down there.
Are you giving me this straight?
Don't take my word for it. Get down there yourself and give a look.
Listen, copper, get a load of this. While you're chinning yourself on a bar rail, I run down this story ... my story. Consider yourself my assistant.
What do you think I am?
Whatever you are, you're the only one of it.
It happens that I'm the law.
How quaint. But I can go any place you can.
Not a very good one, I guess. He wasn't like anything human. He hobbled and swayed like a monkey, and the face, from the glimpse I got of it in the light from the street, was like an African war mask.
You mean he was colored?
I don't know what he was, but he made Frankenstein look like a lily!
Hey, what do you think you're doing? Put that stuff back!
Nothing doing. This is my percentage. You birds are going to get yours. And anyhow, I found this dump.
If you will forgive this poor, crippled stump, my dear, I am very happy to know you.
Thank you.
Although you would be amused if I were to tell you that I knew you before you were born. Before this terrible thing happened to me ... ... I made a very beautiful statue. Even if I had not met with this disaster, I could never have hoped to do anything finer, probably nothing quite so fine. And, my child, you are that figure come to life. I wonder, some time, would you pose for one of my sculptors who does very excellent work?
I'd love to, at any time.
We'll be coming to the opening.
At any time. You will always be welcome.
But I think these things are beautiful.
They are. My boy, I think you are right. Everyone is tired out today and now that we have seen my doors open in a new country, I am beginning to realize that I am a little tired myself. You can call that fellow in from the front. I think we'll close for the night.
Oh! Mr. Igor!  I'm so glad you're here  I don't know why I should be, but I was a little bit afraid.
Oh! So, my little friend, you have honored me by accepting my invitation of last night.
No  I  wanted to speak to Ralph. We had a silly argument last night and I said something unkind.
Oh, you children, you happy children. You've quarreled and now you're going to be friends again. And that is as it should be. Never let any stupid misunderstandings come between you.
But it was really my fault.
And he will probably demand the life of anyone who agrees with you. Let him think it was his fault ... He should be along very shortly .. . But be very stern before you forgive him, especially if it is your fault ... While you're waiting for your friend, would you like to see some new figures I have downstairs?
I'd love to.
Oh, please, Mr. Igor, I'm terribly ashamed. I shouldn't have put you to so much trouble.
It is no trouble at all, my child. This is the strange, vicarious pleasure that remains for me  to see others enjoy the beauty I used to create. My footing is not too secure.
Let me go! Let me go!
We have found immortality, you and I. You must not be afraid.
Ralph! Ralph!
Please, oh, please, I haven't done anything to hurt you.
And I have no desire to hurt you. You will always be beautiful. Think, my child, in a thousand years you will be as lovely as you are now.
Disappoint me? Why, what do you mean, dear?
Well, you see, the old chap is pretty anxious to open on schedule. All of his advertising announced the opening tonight.
Why, certainly, sir. My fiance. Charlotte, may I present Mr. Igor.
Delighted, I'm sure.
But why? She's the best friend I've got.
She isn't anybody's friend, and I don't like you living with her. She's a bad influence.
Nonsense. She's one of the nicest girls I know.
What's nice about her? ... a hardboiled little gold digger.
I won't let you say that!
Well, I do say it.
She thinks it's funny to talk the way she does, but
Don't kid yourself  she means it.
Are we going to have the same quarrel over again?
I'm not quarreling, only ...
You wouldn't have said that before you met her.
I'd call it stupid at any time.
Well, that's just how stupid I am. When you go riding, it will be with me. And if it's with someone else, you can make it a permanent arrangement.
So that's the way it is?
That's the way I feel about it.
I'm glad you told me. Good night, Mr. Burton.
Yes, why?
I wondered. Did he invite you to lunch, or did you invite him?
I wish you wouldn't be so sarcastic about Ralph. He's the sweetest kid I know.
What are you laughing at?
I just had a picture of you telling a landlady some day that you didn't have the rent, but Ralph is awful sweet.
I don't see any bigmoneyed boys running after you.
I met one last night ... all the money this side of Peoria.
Did you? Where?
In the can. The hoosegow! Mrs. Winton's little boy. The Pawk Avenue Wintons, you know ... and plenty of doremi. He's in the jailhouse now ...
I don't have any affairs. What do you mean?
I don't think you could have a real affair. You couldn't care for anyone.
I've been in love so many times my heart is calloused ... but I've never hit one with dough. This loveinanattic isn't my idea of a way to spend a pleasant afternoon.
I don't agree with you.
All right, you raise the kids  I'll raise the roof. I'd rather die with an athletic heart from shaking cocktails and bankers, than expire in a pan of dirty dish water.
You would.
He can look like a chimpanzee and act like an igorot but he must have dough  plenty of dough.
You think money is the only requisite. It happens that the poor people are happier.
Then marry Ralph ... you'll be the happiest couple in the world.
But what about lunch?
I'll have it for supper. So long.
There's no hurry. It's early.
I can't convince the inner woman that we can wait. She's howling for a bit of ground beef before we drop in on Santa Claus and the other dummies. I've only had a cup of coffee since last night.
Why didn't you eat last night?
Ouch! Eat? You can do a solo if you don't step on it. I'm going to bow out on you.
What's the rush? There's no first act. They'll all be there and we don't have to appear at any particular time.
I'm hungry. I'll eat the first child I see. And I've an appointment with young Winton at 8:30.
You wouldn't get mixed up with that little rotter, would you?
No? Give me a chance, baby. Money is music in my ears, and when his old man kicks off there'll be a million dollar tune.
If you're going to be indiscreet, I wish you'd be a little more discreet about it. Rich men, like Winton, love you and leave you.
Yeah, but they leave you plenty.
I think so.
Well, thank goodness, that's settled.
You killed him! Come on with the rest of it. You killed him!
No  I didn't. It was Igor at the waxworks.
But you were in on it  you worked for him.
No  the only thing I did for him was to keep track of the man named Worth that runs the place where you arrested me tonight.
You lie!
It's Igor at the Wax Museum! You'll find your judge embalmed in wax! He's a statue of Voltaire, with all the other corpses! The whole place is a morgue  do you hear?  a morgue!
By the time we return there, all the preparations for the blood transfusion are completed.
Joseph returns from the room where Gisle is. He has evidently succeeded in calming her. He goes and sits in the chair where Nikolas sat. He rests his head in his hand. He sees the open diary and begins reading it.
The blood transfusion is now in progress. The only words are curt orders like: 'Now!  Quickly!  That's enough!  Give it to me!  Sit still!' etc.
Joseph is reading the diary, which arouses his interest more and more. It is as if he finds a connection between what he reads and the fearful events that have taken place around him. An extract from the diary is shown.
The blood transfusion continues. Marc has positioned himself outside the circle of light from the lamp, so that he can see Nikolas in bright light, while he himself sits in the dark. Nikolas watches Lone's face anxiously and closely during her struggle with death. Life slowly seems to return to her, and her breathing becomes more peaceful. She opens her eyes and looks at the people round her, but she is much too enfeebled to speak, and closes her eyes again. Marc keeps a close watch on Nikolas, who grows paler and paler. His eyes swivel slowly from Nikolas to the patient and back to Nikolas again.
Another fragment of the diary is shown [having to do with vampires].
The blood transfusion is completed. While Marc himself is looking after the patient, the nurse leads Nikolas into an adjoining room, where she makes him sit down and prepares his bandage. The doctor stands bending over Lone.
Did you hear?
Yes, the child ...
The child!
Yes.
There's no child here.
But ... the dogs...
There's no child here, and no dogs either.
No?
No! Good night!
What were you dreaming about?
A voice ...
That spoke to you?
That called ... commanded ...
What did it say?
Your father?
Yes!
The master ... is asleep!
What is it?
The wound is bleeding!
Go to sleep!
What is it now?
I'm losing my blood!
You're losing your blood?
Yes!
Nonsense! ... It's here! ... Your blood ...
Dr. Meirschultz, please.
He isn't here.
What are you going to do?
I'm going to call the police.
No, you can't do thatthey'll get suspicious
You can't doublecross me like that. You were to help me. You were to operate on him. You were going to put him under my power.
Not so fast, Mrs. Buckley. That was your idea!
You are right. But before I can get him back here, you will have to help me.
How? What can I do?
[Something very important. I have been threatened;] Mrs. Maxwell, my assistant's wife, is crazy. She thinks I mur dered her husband. [She wants to murder me.] I want you to help me quiet her give her a shot from this hypo. [Keep it hid till we get her] down in the basement there is a secret vault [there]. We will put her there till we get your husband[then turn her over to the authorities. Then we will both be free.]
It sounds all right, except for the fact that she's crazy. It seems to me she has the right idea.
Oh, so you feel that way too . Motions to other room. Stay in thereI'll call you when needed.
I'm detective Jones. Just dropped in to tell you a bit of news.
You found Buckley?
By the way, where <U>is</U> your assistant?
Oh, Maxwell? He's left.
How do you do.
Well, news of Buckley?
Yeah, he was picked up also the body from the morgue. Say, what did you have to do with stealing that body?
Why, Buckley stole that body. That's what alarmed Mrs. Buckley so. I have been try ing to get her to put Buckley in an institution but she wants to keep him.
Sothat's it. Buckley took the body.
Yes indeed. He has been a <U>difficult</U> case. Now that <U>you</U> have him in custodyyou have him haven't you?
Oh, yes, he's in good hands now.
Fine. Mrs. Buckley will be all right when she gets used to the idea.
Do you have many patients, doctor?
Oh no. Mostly research in endocrinology.
Mind if I look around? Seems to me you have car ried on some interesting experiments. Sure of himself but taking no chances. MAXWELL Sure, I'll take you thru.
What's down there?
Oh, just the basement. Some day I intend to build an experimental laboratory down there. It will save me from intrusion.
I'd like to have a look.
You here again?
Yes. Mr. Buckley thinks you treated him a little rough. He's in the hospital. How about it?
Oh, nothing. He is crazy, that's all. I had a little trouble with him.
What's that?
Oh, nothing. A cou ple of my patients having a little argument.
Take me down there.
It won't do any good. They are a pair of wouldbe mur deresses fighting it out.
Man, you're crazy. What kind of a place is this?
Oh, <U>I'm</U> crazy, am I? Let me tell you something. Those women havethe gleam
Come on, we're wasting time.
I understand from your neighbors that all [them] cats are making noise at night. Dr. Meirschultz has put in a complaint.
He's been stealing my cats to experiment on [them]. I know cause I've been [watching] spying on him.
[Lot of] How many cats you havewhat's the matter rats?
Yeahthousands, and right in my back yard.
Thousands?
Sure, got thousand cats, too. Look at 'em Points to cages of cats.
What' s the idea [of wanting so many] do you sell them [to the doctor]?
Oh, no. It's my own idea. I'm in the business. In the fur business.
Oh, I see. Cats' fur.
That's it. You get it quick.
But where do the rats come in?
You're not as quick as I thought. I figgered out that rats breed faster than cats cat skins make good fur The cats eat rats. Rats eat raw meat. That is, they eat the carcasses of the cats. So the cats eat the ratsthe rats eat the cats. And I get the skinssimple ain't it?
Oh, him. He has a cat of his own. But his assistanthe's the cathatenest man I ever saw. Goofy, if ya ast me.]
By the waydid you hear a shot last night?
Surethey're sorta queer, I'd say. They's lots of queer goings on up there. They even brought a dog back to life once.
That sounds to me very remarkable.
It may be, but to my notion, those that monkeys with what they got no business to get queer sooner or later.
Maybe you're right.
I know I am. Why, I even heard a shot up there last night.
Why didn't you notify the police?
No
Who are you? What is your name?
I don't know, [I tell you].
What made you steal? Are you hungry?
NoI don't want to give any money. Everybody wants moneyI'm not going to give any money.
Who wants your money maybe I can help you.
Maybe you want my money, too.
No, I don't want money. I only want to find out who you are and where you live. My business is finding peo ple. Not taking their money.
Youa friend to me?
Why, yes, to you, Mr.Mr. what?
I don't knowI can't tell
No, no! I won't sign any pa pers. You can't make me
Hmpressure To Buckley. That's all right. We'll talk later.
Tell me, just what you know of Dr. Meirschultz.
Papersthey all want me to sign papers.
Dr. Meirschultz, too?
YesI can't stand it everybody wants papers oh, oh
Take him to the psychopathic hospital.
Did you wish to see someone?
I understand my husband is your assistant. May I see him please?
You mean he doesn't work for you?
No, not exactly. Why the great anxiety? It must be something important.
It isyou know what a struggle he's had.
Indeed, he has often told me.
He's inherited a fortune.
You say a fortune. He never spoke to me of any rich relatives.
He hardly knew of them him self. I believe it was his uncle in Australia.
I am certainly glad to hear it. I know he'll be pleased.
Don't tell him. I want to be the first to bring him the news.
That's only natural. Maxwell will be here around eight tonight.
OkayI'll be here at eight.
Gosh, you had me fooled.
ShshI want to have a few words with you quietly.
Sofriendly or otherwise?
[Perfectly friendly, my dear.] At last, I have really a secure living for us. We can travel or anything we choose.
Then you knew of the inheritance?
SureI have one little job to accomplish, then we can leave together. No doubt you are surprised at this disguise.
No, I wouldn't be surprised at anything from you. Winningly. MAXWELL Now, honeyyou are here in time to help me and you can
I knew there was a catch in this some placebut spill it. Quiet and dramatic. MAXWELL In the other room, I have a crazy woman that I have been treating.
Ha ha, <U>you</U> have been treating.
Quiet, will you? This is ser ious. Our lives are in danger.
What do you mean &quot;our&quot;?
That's what I said. Now, lis ten to me. I want you to help me take this woman down stairs. I will give her a shot. You can take care of her till I get help.
How about me getting the help. She's quiet now, isn't she?
Imagineshe was alive. What a horror. Could have been buried alive. She must have run away from the morgue.
Never mind your theories. Was she ever conscious?
Just before she died she came to
Did she talk?
Said &quot;doctor&quot;[something]
[Was it] &quot;Meirschultz&quot;?
By gosh, them stiffs are get tin' heavier and more of 'em every day. They even got the coroner working overtime.
Yeah, between the gangsters and the autos, we won't need another war to carry off the population.
You didn't even mention the suicides. Did you notice the beaut that came in today?
Did I?
That's the one that's got the coroner doing nightwork.
Whatspecial autopsy?
They thought she'd be coming to me.
Left Phoenix under her own steam?
Yes.
From what?
Everyone concerned thought... if they could get her to give back the money... they could avoid involving her with the police.
Explains the private detective. He traced her to the Bates place. What'd he exactly say when he called you?
He was out when I was there. If he's back he probably isn't even in bed yet.
He wasn't out when you were there. He just wasn't answering the door in the dead of night... like some people do. This fellow lives like a hermit...
Was that all?
This detective was out there and Norman told him about the girl and the detective thanked him and went away.
Now wait a minute, Sam. You sure you saw an old woman?
Yes! In the house behind the motel. I pounded and called but she... just ignored me.
And you want to tell me you saw Norman Bates' mother.
You didn't find anything.
Nothing. Here, let's clear the path.
No mother.
You must've seen an illusion, Sam. Now, I know you're not the seeing illusion type... But no woman was illusion there and I don't believe in ghosts, so there it is!
I won't have you bringing strange young girls in for supper... ...by candlelight, I suppose, in the cheap erotic fashion of young men with cheap, erotic minds!
Mother, please...
And then what? After supper, music? Whispers?
Mother, she's just a stranger... hungry, and the weather's bad...
Mother, she's just a stranger! As if men don't desire strangers, as if... oh, I refuse to speak of disgusting things because they disgust me! You understand, Boy?
Go on, go tell her she'll not be appeasing her ugly appetite with my food... or my son! Or do I have to tell her, cause you don't have the guts? Huh, boy? You have the guts, boy?
Shut up! Shut up!
Just coming up to ring for you.
I suppose you want a cabin.
We'd hoped to make it straight to San Francisco, but we don't like the look of that sky. Looks like a bad day coming... doesn't it.
I'll take you to...
Better sign in first, hasn't we?
It isn't necessary.
Uh, uh! My boss is paying for this trip... ninety percent business... and he wants practically notarized receipts. I better sign in and get a receipt.
I'll get your bags.
Haven't any.
I'll show you the cabin.
Looking for me?
Yes, matter of fact. The wife's taking a nap and... I can never keep quiet enough for her... so I thought I'd look you up and... talk.
Satisfied with your cabin?
Fine.
I've been doing all the talking so far, haven't I?
Yes.
I always thought it was the people who are alone so much who do all the talking when they get the chance. Yet there you are, doing all the listening! You are alone here, aren't you? It would drive me crazy.
That would be a rather extreme reaction, wouldn't it?
Just an expression... What I meant was... I'd do just about anything... to get away. Wouldn't you?
I'm not saying you shouldn't be contented here, I'm just doubting that you are. I think if you saw a chance to get out from under... you'd unload this place...
This place! This isn't 'a place.' It's my only world. I grew up in that house back there. I was a happy child. My mother and I... we were more than happy.
And now that your mother's dead?
My mother is not dead!
I didn't think so.
You look frightened. Have I been saying something frightening?
I don't know what you've been saying.
I've been talking about your mother... about your motel. How are you going to do it?
Do what?
Buy a new one! In a new town! Where you won't have to hide your mother!
Shut up!
Where will you get the money to do that, Bates... or do you already have it... socked away... a lot of it...
Leave me alone!
...Forty thousand dollars!
Leave me alone!
Why don't you call Norman and let him say just what happened, if he give the man a hot lead and he did just scooted off... it'll make the girl feel better, Albert.
At this hour?
Recluse. Kinder word.
You must remember that bad business out there. About ten years ago...
Norman? Sheriff Chambers. Been just fine, thanks. Listen, we got some worries here. Did you have a man stop out there tonight... Well, this one wouldn't be a customer, anyway. A private detective, name of...
Arbogast.
Arbogast. And after he left? No, it's okay, Norman. How's it been going out there? Well, I think you oughta unload that place and open up closer in to the action, a smaller place, you know... but...
Barefaced.
He told you he wasn't coming right back cause he wanted to question Norman Bates' mother, right?
I helped Norman pick out the dress she was buried in. Periwinkle blue.
It ain't only local history, Sam, it's the only murderandsuicide case in Fairvale ledgers! Mrs. Bates poisoned this guy she was... involved with, when she found out he was married, then took a helping of the same stuff herself. Strychnine. Ugly way to die.
Norman found them dead together. In bed.
Went out before service.
Have you two had breakfast?
Oh?
Sorry, Mrs. Chambers. I hate bothering you...
You didn't! It's tinkerbell. Al wants to be sure he'll hear it if anyone rings it in the middle of the night. Well come on in, at least!
We have a problem.
Let's go out back and have some coca while the men are talking.
Mary is Lila's sister?
Yes. He traced her to that motel, out on the old highway...
Bates' Motel. He has a mind like a mechanical brain and the more information you feed it... Go on, Sam.
He traced her there and called us to say he was going to question Mrs. Bates...
Norman took a wife?
No. An old woman, his mother. That was early this evening. And we haven't seen or heard from him since. I went out to the motel, just got back. No one was in the office, and...
You mean that old woman I saw sittin' in the window wasn't Norman Bates' mother?
Maybe you saw Mary!
I'd know the difference between Mary and an old woman.
We thought, if you didn't mind, we'd go out to the motel with you.
He's already been.
In quite a hurry.
Yes. I didn't mean to sleep so long. I was afraid I'd have an accident last night, from sleepiness... so I decided to pull over...
You slept here all night?
Yes. As I said, I couldn't keep my eyes...
There are plenty of motels in this area. You should have... I mean, just to be safe...
I didn't intend to sleep all night! I just pulled over... have I broken any laws?
No, m'am.
Then I'm free to go...?
Is anything wrong?
Of course not! Am I acting as if... something's wrong?
Frankly, yes.
Please... I'd like to go...
Is there?
Is there what? I've told you there's nothing wrong... except that I'm in a hurry and you're taking up my time...
Now wait just a moment! Turn your motor off, please.
In the course of my duty, I never "take up" anyone's time, whether it's to give a warning, or a ticket, or help! Believe that, M'am. Now if you woke up on the wrong side of... the car seat, that's one thing. But when you act as if I've just placed you under arrest...
I'm sorry.
No need to apologize...
Wait a minute!
Now what?
May I see your license?
Why?
Please.
Dirty night.
You have a vacancy?
We have twelve vacancies. Twelve cabins, twelve vacancies. They moved away the highway.
I thought I'd gotten off the main...
I knew you must have. No one stops here anymore unless they do.
Your home address. Oh, just the town will do.
Los Angeles.
I want sleep more than anything. Except maybe, food.
There's a big diner about ten miles on up... just outside Fairvale.
Am I that close to Fairvale?
Fifteen miles. I'll get your bags.
Stuffy in here. Well... the mattress is soft and there're hangers in the closet and... stationary with "Bates' Motel" printed on it in case you want to make your friends back home envious... and... the... over there....
The bathroom.
I'll be in the office if you want anything... just tap on the wall.
Thank you, Mr. Bates.
Norman Bates.
You have something most girls never have.
I have?
There's no name for it... But it's something that, that puts a person at ease.
Thank you. Again.
You're not going to go out again and drive up to that diner, are you?
No.
Then will you do me a favor? Will you have supper here? I was just about to, myself... nothing more than some sandwiches and a lot of milk, but I'd like it if you'd come up to the house and... I don't set a fancy table but... the kitchen's awful homey.
I'd like to.
All right, you get your dresses hanging out and... change those wet shoes, and I'll come for you soon as it's ready... ...with my trusty umbrella.
I've caused you some trouble.
Mother... ...what is the phrase... "she isn't herself today"... I think that's it.
You shouldn't have bothered. I really don't have that much of an appetite.
I'm sorry. I wish... people could apologize for other people.
Don't worry about it. But as long as you've made us supper, we may as well eat it. Huh?
You're very... kind.
It's all for you. I'm not hungry. Please go ahead.
You eat like a bird.
You'd know, of course.
Not really. I hear that expression, that one eats "like a bird," is really a falsie, I mean a falsity, because birds eat a tremendous lot. Oh, I don't know anything about birds. My hobby is stuffing things... taxidermy. And I guess I'd just rather stuff birds because... well, I hate the look of beasts when they're stuffed, foxes and chimps and all... some people even stuff dogs and cats... but I can't... I think only birds look well stuffed because they're rather... passive, to begin with... most of them...
It's a strange hobby. Curious, I mean.
Uncommon, too.
I imagine so.
It's not as expensive as you'd think. Cheap, really. Needles, thread, sawdust .. the chemicals are all that cost anything.
A man should have a hobby.
It's more than a hobby... sometimes... a hobby is supposed to pass the time, not fill it.
Is your time so empty?
Oh, no! I run the office, tend the cabins and grounds, do little chores for mother... the ones she allows I might be capable of doing.
You go out... with friends?
Friends? Who needs friends. A boy's best friend is his mother. You've never had an empty moment in your whole life. Have you?
Only my share.
Where are you going? I don't mean to pry...
I'm looking for a private island.
What are you running away from?
Why do you ask that?
No. People never run away from anything. The rain didn't last very long. You know what I think? I think we're all in our private traps, clamped in them, and none of us can ever climb out. We scratch and claw... but only at the air, only at each other, and for all of it, we never budge an inch.
Sometimes we deliberately step into those traps.
I was born in mine. I don't mind it anymore.
You should... mind it.
Oh I do... but I say I don't.
If anyone ever spoke to me, the way I heard... The way she spoke to you, I don't think I could ever laugh again.
Sometimes when she talks that way to me I'd like to... curse her out and leave her forever! Or at least, defy her. But I couldn't. She's ill.
She sounded strong...
I mean... ill. She had to raise me all by herself after my dad died... I was only five... and it must have been a strain. Oh, she didn't have to go out to work or anything, Dad left us with a little something... anyway, a few years ago... Mother met a man. He talked her into building this motel... We could have talked her into anything... and when. Well... It was just too much for her when he died, too... And the way he died... Oh, it's nothing to talk about when you're eating. Anyway, it was too much of a loss for my mother... she had nothing left.
Except you.
A son is a poor substitute for a lover.
Why don't you go away?
To a private island, like you?
No, not like me.
It's too late for me. And besides... who'd look after her? She'd be alone up there, the fire would go out... damp and cold, like a grave. When you love someone, you don't do that to them, even if you hate them. Oh, I don't hate her. I hate... what she's become. I hate... the illness.
Wouldn't it be better if you put her in... someplace...
An Institution? A madhouse? People always call a madhouse "someplace." Put her in Someplace!
I'm sorry... I didn't mean it to sound uncaring...
What do you mean about caring? Have you ever seen one of those places? Inside? Laughing and tears and cruel eyes studying you... and my mother there? Why? has she harmed you? She's as harmless as... one of these stuffed birds.
I am sorry. I only felt... it seemed she was harming you. I meant...
Well? You meant well? People always mean well, they cluck their thick tongues and shake their heads and suggest so very delicately that...
I've suggested it myself. But I hate to even think such a thing. She needs me... and it isn't... ...it isn't as if she were a maniac, a raving thing... it's just that... sometimes she goes a little mad. We all go a little mad sometimes. Haven't you?
Yes, and just one time can be enough. Thank you.
Thank you, Norman.
Norman.
You're not going to... to your room already?
I'm very tired. And I'll have a long drive tomorrow. All the way back to Phoenix.
Phoenix?
I stepped into a private trap back there  and I want to go back and... try to pull myself out. Before it's too late for me, too.
Why don't you stay a little while, just for talking.
I'd like to, but...
Alright. I'll see you in the morning. I'll bring you breakfast. What time will you...
Very early. Dawn.
Alright, Miss...
Crane.
That's it.
Good night.
Call your boss and tell him you're taking the rest of the afternoon off. It's Friday anyway... and hot.
What do I do with my free afternoon, walk you to the airport?
We could laze around here a while longer.
Checking out time is three P.M. Hotels of this sort aren't interested in you when you come in, but when your time's up... Sam, I hate having to be with you in a place like this.
I've heard of married couples who deliberately spend occasional nights in cheap hotels. They say it...
When you're married you can do a lot of things deliberately.
You sure talk like a girl who's been married.
Sam!
I'm sorry, Mary. My old Dad used to say 'when you can't change a situation, laugh at it.' Nothing ridicules a thing like laughing at it.
I've lost my girlish laughter.
The only girlish thing you have lost.
Sam. This is the last time.
For what?
This! Meeting you in secret so we can be... secretive! You come down here on business trips and we steal lunch hours and... I wish you wouldn't even come.
Okay. What do we do instead, write each other lurid love letters?
I haven't time to argue. I'm a working girl.
And I'm a working man! We're a regular workingclass tragedy!
It is tragic! Or it will be... if we go on meeting in shabby hotels whenever you can find a taxdeductible excuse for flying down deductible here...
You can't laugh at it, huh?
Can you?
Sure. It's like laughing through a broken jaw, but...
And besides, when you say I make tax deductible excuses you make me out a criminal.
You couldn't be a criminal if you committed a major crime.
I wish I were. Not an active criminal but... a nice guy with the conscience of a criminal. Next best thing to no conscience at all.
I have to go, Sam.
I can come down next week.
No.
Not even just to see you, to have lunch... in public?
We can see each other, we can even have dinner... but respectably, in my house with my mother's picture on the mantel and my sister helping me broil a big steak for three!
And after the steak... do we send Sister to the movies and turn Mama's picture to the wall?
Sam! No!
All right.
Mary, whenever it's possible, tax deductible or not, I want to see deductible you. And under any conditions. Even respectability.
You make respectability sound... disrespectful.
I'm all for it! It requires patience and temperance and a lot of sweating out... otherwise, though, it's only hard work. But if I can see you, touch you even as simply as this... I won't mind.
I'm fed up with sweating for people who aren't there. I sweat to pay off my father's debts... and he's in his grave... I sweat to pay my exwife alimony, and she's living on the other side of the world somewhere.
I pay, too. They also pay who meet in hotel rooms.
A couple of years and the debts will be paid off. And if she ever re marries, the alimony stops... and then...
I haven't even been married once yet!
Yeah, but when you do... you'll swing.
Sam, let's go get married.
And live with me in a storeroom behind a hardware store in Fairvale. We'll have a lot of laughs. When I send my exwife her money, you can lick the stamps.
I'll lick the stamps.
You know what I'd like? A clear, empty sky... and a plane, and us in it... and somewhere a private island for sale, where we can run around without our... shoes on. And the wherewithal to buy what I'd like. Mary, you want to cut this off, go out and find yourself someone available.
I'm thinking of it.
How can you even think a thing like that!
Don't miss your plane.
Hey, we can leave together can't we?
I'm late... and you have to put your shoes on.
Yes?
May I talk to you?
Sure...
I'm Mary's sister.
Lila.
Is Mary here?
Is something wrong?
I want to know if my sister is here.
Here?
With you.
Where?
I don't know where. In your store, somewhere in your town... anywhere.
What's the matter?
Don't you know?
What should I know?
To begin with, where Mary is. Do you?
No. I take it you don't either? How long?
Last Friday. She left work, and home... I was in Tucson over the weekend... I haven't heard from her, not even a phone call.
And you thought she'd come up here, to me? If she had, what reason would she have for not calling you?
A good reason, I suppose.
Well what do you think, we eloped or something? Or we're living in sin and...
Mr. Loomis, you're so busy being defensive that you haven't even reacted to the most serious fact of all. Mary is missing.
I was getting to that!
What do you know about it?
Nothing! You're putting me on the defensive.
Look, if you two are in this thing together, I don't care, it's none of my business... But I want to see Mary. I want her to tell me she's all right and it's none of my business. Then I'll go back to Phoenix and...
What thing?
Huh?
What thing could we be in together?
I hate tears.
Is Mary... in trouble?
Yes.
Well why didn't she come to me... call me...?
Not that kind... You men and your egos.
Never mind my ego. Let's talk about Mary.
Yes... I just... did. The moment they told me...
You might have doubted for say five minutes or so, Sister.
I just listened... and believed everything they told me. 'She stole the money.' 'We don't want to get her in trouble.' 'No don't bring the police in'...
It was her boss' idea not to report it to the police?
No. The man whose money she... he talked so loud and fast, and I... I should've called the police.
He must have had a darn good reason for wanting them kept out of it... All that cash...
I ought to call the police right now!
No.
Why not? Sam, is she hiding here? Are you two planning to go away with the money?
How could I go away? I'm in debt up to my... If she did steal that money... It's hard to believe she did because it's hard to see why she would. Unless she had some wild idea that it would help me... us...
She haven't even called you?
I didn't see her... and I didn't hear from her! Believe that!
I need to... I need to believe something. This is the first time I've ever come up against anything I couldn't... understand.
You've led a charmed life.
No. I just think... anything can be explained. But Mary, doing a thing like this... I don't know how to handle...
Maybe we can handle it together.
I came flying up here expecting to get some explanation... for all I know, she may be trying to get in touch with me, at home. I'd better go home.
I think she'll contact me if she contacts anybody. Why don't you stay here. When she shows up... or calls... be here.
You want me to stay here?
She'll need both of us.
Where... can I stay?
First rate hotel, fifty yards up the street. Come on. After we check you in we'll go to the drugstore and get you a sandwich. Then we'll come back here... and wait.
Sometimes Saturday night has a lonely sound. Ever notice, Lila?
Sam. He said an hour. Or less.
It's been three.
Are we just going to go on sitting here?
He'll be back. Let's sit still and hang on, okay?
You have an awfully nice habit, Sam.
Hundreds! Which one is your pet?
Whenever I start contemplating the panic button, your back straightens up and your eyes get that Godlooks outforeverybody look and... I feel better.
I feel better when you feel better.
Where's the old highway?
You want to run out there, bust in on Arbogast and the sick old lady, shake her up and maybe spoil everything Arbogast's been building for the last three hours.
Yes.
That wouldn't be a wise thing to do.
Patience doesn't run in our family. Sam, I'm going out there!
Arbogast said...
An hour! Or less!
Got the number of the motel out on the old highway? Bates, I think.
Sam! Why call when we can go?
And maybe pass Arbogast on the road? Thanks.
Probably on his way back right now.
Sam, I'm going.
You'll never find it.
Stay here.
Why can't I go out there with you?
I don't know... One of us has to be here in case Arbogast's on the way.
Just wait here?
Contemplate your... panic button.
He didn't come back here?
Sam.
No Arbogast. No Bates. And only the old lady at home... A sick old lady unable to answer the door... or unwilling.
Where could he have gone?
Maybe he got some definite lead. Maybe he went right on...
Without calling me?
In a hurry.
Sam, he called me when he had nothing definite, nothing but a dissatisfied feeling. Don't you think he'd have called if he had anything...
Yes. I think he would have.
Let's go see Al Chambers.
Who's he?
He's the Deputy Sheriff around here.
Our Deputy sleeps.
Well?
Nothing. Just... all the lights out... must be asleep.
Does that mean we can't...
No. I'm just procrastinating. People hate when the doorbell rings in the middle of the night. Come on.
No, thank you. It's my problem, too.
I don't know where to start... Except at the beginning.
Yes.
This is Lila Crane, from Phoenix. She's been here for a few days, looking for her sister. There's a private detective helping... and, well, we got a call tonight, from this detective, saying he'd traced Mary...
I've only been here five. Right now it feels like ten, but...
All right! Then call! At least, call!
Maybe I am the seeingillusions type.
You're not.
I won't feel satisfied unless I got out there, Sam.
Neither will I.
I wonder if we'll ever see Mary again.
Of course we will.
Alive.
Where'd you go to college?
I didn't. I got a job, too. I wonder if that hurt her, my not letting her sacrifice for me? Some people are so willing to suffer for you that they suffer more if you don't let them.
She was willing to lick the stamps.
I wonder so many things about her now. Why she never told me about you... Funny, when you think there's an answer to everything, you think you know all the answers.
We were going to get married. Are going to get married!
Do you know how I found out about you? I found one of your letters... it was a nice letter, Sam.
This is the old highway.
I suppose... when you were able to marry her she'd have presented you, all shiny and proper... she always tried to be proper.
Watch your tenses.
Huh?
She always tries to be proper.
You going to wait here for me?
I'm going with you. But we'd better decide what we're going to say and do when we walk in...
We're going to register. As man and wife. And get shown to a cabin... and then search every inch of that place, inside and... outside.
You won't believe it... But this will be the first time I've ever pulled one of those man andwiferentingcabin capers!
I believe it.
I wonder where Norman Bates does his hermiting?
Someone was at that window. I saw the curtain move.
We should have asked for Cabin One... The one Mary was in.
I'm glad we didn't.
We have to go into that cabin and search it, Sam... no matter what we're afraid of finding and no matter how much it may hurt.
I know. Do you think if something happened, it happened there?
Sam, if you owned a useless business like this motel... one you probably couldn't even sell... what would you need to get away, to start a new business, somewhere else? Forty thousand dollars?
How could we prove... Well, if he opens a new motel on the new highway... say, a year from now...
There must be some proof that exists right now! Something that proves he got that money away from Mary... Some way!
What makes you sound so certain?
Arbogast! Sam, he liked me... or felt sorry for me... and he was starting to feel the same about you. I heard it when he called... in his voice, a caring. He wouldn't have gone anywhere or done anything without telling us. Unless he was stopped. And he was stopped, so he must have found out something!
Sorry.
Hospital clean.
What?
The bathroom. Look at how clean it is. The one in our cabin is clean... but this is clean!
What is it?
It didn't get washed down. It's figuring... the kind you tear up and get rid of. Some figure has been added to or subtracted from... forty thousand.
That's proof Mary was here! It would be too wild a coincidence for somebody else to...
Bates never denied Mary was here.
Yes. But maybe this proves that Bates found out about the money.
Do we simply ask him where he's hidden it?
Sam, that old woman, whoever she is. I think she told Arbogast something! And I want her to tell us the same thing!
You can't go up there.
Why not?
Bates.
It's regular. Okay?
I could stand something regular.
Will you help us? I think something's wrong out there!
Now. Your sister is missing how long?
She left Phoenix a week ago yesterday. And no trace until...
How'd you and this detective come to trace her to Fairvale?
Yes.
She ain't missing so much as she's run away.
She stole some money.
A lot?
Forty thousand dollars.
And the police haven't been able to...
Mary had been there, one night, and had left.
With the forty thousand dollars?
He didn't mention the money. What he said on the phone isn't important, is it? He was supposed to come back after he spoke to the mother, and he didn't! That's what I want you to do something about!
Like what?
Go out there! Find somebody, ask some questions! I'm sorry if I seem overanxious to you. I keep thinking... something's wrong. I have to know what!
I think something's wrong, too, Miss. But not the same thing. I think your private detective is what's wrong. I think he got himself a hot lead as to where your sister was going... probably from Norman Bates... and called you to keep you still while he took off after her and the money.
He said he was dissatisfied... and was going back.
Please!
Sorry I got you up, boy. Go back to sleep. Yeah, be glad to. Said to give you his regards.
You should've called in the police the second you found your sister has skipped. You go starting private investigations, using people you don't even know...
What difference does that...
Your Detective told you a nakedfaced lie.
Yes.
Norman Bates' mother has been dead and buried in Greenlawn Cemetery for the last ten years!
Did he say anything about my sister?
Just what he told your detective.
I still feel...
Can see you do. Sorry I couldn't make you feel better. You want to come to my office this afternoon and report a missing person... And the theft, is what you want to do! Sooner you drop this thing in the lap of the law, that's the sooner you'll stand a chance of your sister bein' picked up. How about that?
I don't know.
Yes, Mr. Lowery.
Caroline...? Mary still isn't in?
No, Mr. Lowery... but then she's always a bit late on Monday mornings.
Buzz me the minute she comes in.
Call her sister! If no one's answering at the house....
I called her sister, Mr. Lowery, where she works, the Music Makers Music Store, you know? And she doesn't know where Mary is any more than we do.
You better run out to the house. She may be... unable to answer the phone...
Her sister's going to do that. She's as worried as we are.
Isn't Mr. Lowery back from lunch?
He's lunching with the man who's buying the Harris Street property, you know, that oil lease man... so that's why he's late. You getting a headache?
It'll pass. Headaches are like resolutions... you forget them soon as they stop hurting.
You got aspirins? I have something... not aspirins, but my mother's doctor gave these to me the day of my wedding. Teddy was furious when he found out I'd taken tranquilizers!
Were there any calls?
Teddy called. Me... And my mother called to see if Teddy called. Oh, and your sister called to say she's going to Tucson to do some buying and she'll be gone the whole weekend and...
Aren't you going to take the pills? They'll knock that headache out.
I don't need pills... just sleep.
I'm in no mood for trouble!
What?
There's an old saying, "First customer of the day is always the most trouble!" But like I said, I'm in no mood for it so I'm just going to treat you so fair and square you won't have one human reason to give me...
Can I trade in my car and take another?
You can do anything you've a mind to... and bein' a woman, you will! That yours?
Yes, it's... nothing wrong with it, I'm just...
Sick of the sight of it! Well, suppose you look around for something that strikes your eyes and meanwhile I'll have my mechanic give yours the once over and... want some coffee? I was just about...
No. Thank you. I'm in... a hurry. I just want to make a change and start...
That's the one I'd've picked for you myself!
How much?
Go ahead! Spin it around the block. Now I know you don't know anything about engine condition, but you can feel, can't you... and it's all in the feel, believe me, you feel that one around the block...
It looks fine. How much will it be, with my car...?
You mean you don't want the usual day and a half to think it over? You are in a hurry! Somebody chasin' you?
Of course not. Please.
Well... heck, this is the first time I ever saw the customer highpressure the salesman! I'd figure roughly... ...your car plus five hundred.
Five hundred.
Aha! Always got time to argue money, huh...?
All right.
I take it... you can prove that car's yours... I mean, out of state and all... got your pink slip and your...
I think I have the necessary papers. Is there a Ladies Room...
In the building ... Mary starts for the building, glancing once in the direction of the Patrolman.
I think you'd better give it a trial spin. Don't want any bad word of mouth about California Charlie.
I'd really rather not. Please. Can't we just settle this and...
I'll be perfectly honest with you, Ma'am. It's not that I don't trust you, but...
But what? Is there anything so terribly wrong about... making a decision and wanting to hurry? Do you think I've stolen... my car?
No, M'am. I was only about to say, I've sent my mechanic out to give your car a little test... that's all.
I'd like to be ready when he gets back.
Okay. If you'll come along...
I don't know.
Wouldn't have been able to tail you if you did.
Someone has seen her. Someone always sees a girl with forty thousand dollars. She is your girl friend, isn't she?
Sam, they don't want to prosecute, they just want the money back. It was all in cash...
Casharoonie!
Sam, if she's here...
You came up here on a hunch, Miss Crane? Nothing more? No phone call... from him, or from your sister herself?
Not even a hunch. Just hope.
With a little checking, I could get to believe you.
I don't care if you do or... I want to see Mary... before she gets in any deeper...
Let's all talk about Mary.
Who are you, friend?
Milt Arbogast, Private Investigator. Where is she, Miss Crane?
What's your interest?
Money.
Somebody better tell me what's going on and tell me fast! I can take so much and then...
Your girl friend stole forty thousand dollars.
Why?
Must've needed it.
What are you talking about? What is this?
Did you check in Phoenix... hospitals... maybe she had an accident... a holdup...
She was seen leaving town in her car. Seen by her very victims, I might add.
I don't believe it. Do you?
I always forget to put the sign on, but we do have vacancy. Twelve in fact. Twelve cabins, twelve vacancies.
In the past two days I've been to so many motels, my eyes are bleary with neon. This is the first one that looked like it was hiding from the world at large.
I don't really forget the sign, it just doesn't seem... any use. This used to be the main highway. Want to register, please?
Sit down. I don't want to trouble you, just want to ask...
No trouble. Today's linen day. I change all the beds once a week, whether they've been used or not... dampness. I hate the smell of dampness. It's such a dank smell.
You out to buy a motel?
No.
Oh. I thought... you said you'd been to so many in two days... What was it you wanted to ask?
I'm looking for a missing person. My name's Arbogast, private investigator... Trying to trace a young girl who's been missing almost a week. From Phoenix. It's a private matter... family wants to forgive her... She isn't in trouble.
I didn't think the police went searching for people who weren't in trouble.
I'm not the police.
Oh.
We have reason to believe she came this way... might have stopped in this area... Did she stop here?
No. No one has stopped here in weeks...
Mind looking at the picture before committing yourself?
Committing myself to what? You sure talk like a Policeman.
Look at the picture. Please.
No. At least I don't recall.
She might have used an alias. Mary Crane's the real name, but she might've registered...
I don't even bother with guests registering any more... I mean, little by little, you drop the formalities. I shouldn't even bother to change the linen. I guess habits die hard. Which reminds me...
Now there's a couple even remarking about your sign, and see how easily you forgot them?
What?
You thought no one has stopped here in weeks. Now, try to remember if this girl...
Don't know where she got "Marie," but "Samuels" figures. Her boy friend's name is Sam. Was she in disguise? Or do you want to check the picture again?
I didn't lie to you. I just have trouble keeping track of... time.
It was raining and her hair didn't look like that... damped out, I guess.
Tell me all about her.
She arrived kind of late, wet and hungry and she was very tired and went right to bed and left early.
How early?
Very early. Dawn.
Of which morning?
The following morning. Sunday.
No one met her?
No.
Or arrived with her.
No.
She didn't call anyone? Even locally?
No.
You didn't spend the whole night with her did you?
No! Of all...
How do you know she didn't make a call?
She was tired. She said she had a long drive ahead of her, in the morning... Yes, now I'm remembering very clearly because I'm picturing. When you make a picture of the moment in your mind, you can remember every detail. She was sitting back there, no she was standing up, with some sandwich still in her hand, and she said she had to drive a long way.
Back where?
What do you mean?
You said she was sitting "back there," or standing rather...
Oh. My private parlor. She had an awful hunger... so I made her some supper. And then she went to bed and left in the morning. I didn't even see her leave.
How did she pay you?
What?
Cash or check? For the cabin...
Cash.
And when she left, she never came back.
Why should she? I'm sorry, I have work to do, Mr... if you don't mind...
I do mind. If it don't jell, it ain't aspic! This ain't jelling.
I don't know what you expect me to know about... people come and go...
She isn't still here, is she?
Not at all!
Suppose I wanted to search the cabins, all twelve... would I need a warrant?
Look, if you won't believe me, go ahead. You can help me make beds if you like. Come on.
I guess I've got one of those faces you can't help believing.
Anyone at home?
I live there. Alone.
Someone is sitting in that window.
My mother.
She's... ill. Confined to her room. It's practically living alone.
If this girl Mary Crane were here, you'd have no reason to hide her would you?
Of course not.
If she paid you well?
Now, look...!
Or if she had you say... gallantly protecting her... you wouldn't be fooled... you'd know she was just using you. Wouldn't you?
I'm not a fool! And I'm not capable of being fooled! Not even by women!
I didn't mean that as a slur on your manhood. I'm sorry.
That's all right. maybe she could have fooled me. But... She didn't fool my mother.
Your mother met her? Can I talk to your mother?
No. I told you, she's confined...
Just for a moment. She might have picked up a hint you'd miss.
Sick old women are sharp. Come on, I won't disturb...
No! Just no! I have one of those breaking points like any other man, believe it or not, and I'm near it. There's just so much pushing I can take and I think...
All right! Might save me a lot of legwork if I could just talk to your mother. But I'd need a warrant for that, won't I?
He's the only cat left that still grooves me.
Heil, baby! I just finished the morning propaganda broadcasts.
What did you tell the people?
I told them we invaded England.
Hey, baby, that's good! How'd we come out?
We won.
Groovy!
We are falling back on all fronts. Our soldiers are retreating.
No good, baby, no good. You heard my orders. Nobody retreats. Attack! Attack!
Who can we attack? They're all too big.
Hey, man, let's stomp Switzerland!
We can't... we keep our money there!
Where's Goebbels? Where's my little Joe?
Send for Goebbels.
Lorenzo Saint DuBois. But everybody calls me LSD.
What have you done, LSD?
Six months, I'm out on probation, but it's cool now, baby.
I mean in show business.
Oh, in show business. Well, let's put it this way, my next job will be my debut.
What do you do best?
Hey, man, I can't do that here, that's what they put me away for.
Oh, sing. Sing!
Hey, baby, that's where they put me, SingSing. How'd you know that, you been up?
Sing a song! Just sing a song!
No, not at all sir, we're quite serious. We want to produce your play. I have the contracts right here.
Oh joy of joys! Oh, dream of dreams! I can't believe it. Birds, birds, do you hear? Otto, Bertz, Heintz, Hans, Wolfgang, do you hear? Ve are going to clear the Fuhrer's name. Fly, fly, spread the words.
"Deutchland, Deutchland, uber alles, Uber alles in der velt."
"Deutchland, Deutchland ... "
Mr. Liebkind, Mr. Liebkind.
Vat?
People can hear you.
OH. "I'm a Yankee Doodle Dandy, Yankee Doodle is my ... " Listen, this is not place to talk. Come!
Yes. The actors. I must destroy the actors.
Stop! Stop! This is insanity.
Okay.
Where are you going vit the light?
I need it. How'm I gonna find the fuse?
Oh, ve come vit you. All for one and all in the light.
I solemnly swear...
By the sacred memory...
By the sacred memory...
Of Siegfried...
Of Siegfried...
Wagner...
Wagner...
Nietzche...
Nietzche...
Bismark...
Bismark...
Hindenburg...
Hindenburg...
The Graf Spee...
The Graf Spee...
The Blue Max...
The Blue Max...
And last, but not least, Adolph... you know who.
And last, but not least, Adolph... you know who.
Heil you know who!
Heil you know who!
Good. Good. Now ve sign the contract.
Don't forget the checkee. Can't produce playees without checkees.
You can count on meo, you dirty young man.
Finder's keepers.
Here I come, ready or not.
Feeling better?
Good. Let's fool around. Now, I'll be the innocent little milk maid and you'll be the naughty stable boy. Oh, this milk is so heavy. I'll never reach the house. Help. Will someone help me?
Wait. Wait. We can't play today. I have too many appointments.
We can't play today?
Thursday. Thursday. We'll play Thursday. We'll play the Contessa and the chauffeur.
Oh, the best one.
Until Thursday, then, Contessa Mio.
Oh, Bialy, please, just a little. Just a little.
All right. All right.
So, the Count hired you this morning, Rudolfo ... Watch the road ... Watch the road.
I can't take my eyes off you. How can I drive when you drive me mad. Mad.
Rudolfo, you dirty pig! Pull over.
Good. That's enough. We'll do the rest on Thursday. That's a good girl. It's always such fun to see you.
Until Thursday, then, you bawdy wench.
Oooh. I love it. Hold me, touch me.
Thursday. I'll see you Thursday.
And we'll finish playing the Contessa and Rudolfo.
Good. Yes. Thursday.
And after that we'll play the Abduction and cruel rape of Lucretia ... And I'll play Lucretia.
Like clockwork.
I shall count the minutes.
Goodbye, my angel ... My angel! Hey, touch me ... wait! Hey, uh ... Lucretia, Lucretia!
Of course, the check, I had it with me all the time.
I don't know what's happening to me. I must be getting old.
Is it all right? I made it out to cash. You didn't tell me the name of the play.
Oh, it's fine. Fine. Good. Good. Bye. Bye.
Til Thursday, my Darling, I shall count the minutes.
Ta. Ta.
Ta. Ta.
Smasheroo. Smasheroo.
Oh, I'd better hurry back. I don't want to miss one minute of it.
Yes. She's an adult, educational toy made in Sweden for children over fifty.
Stop looking at me like that. She's not an indulgence. She happens to be our new receptionist. She goes with our new surroundings.
Ulla, I'd like you to meet my partner and associate, Mr. Leo Bloom.
Got dag pa dig.
Bialystock and Blum. Bialystock and Blum. Bialystock and Blum. Got dag pa dig. Bialystock and Blum.
Hey, Blum, have a cigar.
Min Bialystock.
Nice girl.
Come on. We'd better hurry. We're late.
Call chauffeur. Get car.
Good. Good. We go Motel.
No. We go.
You, Blum go Motel.
No. No Motel. Get car. Get car.
Get car. Get car.
Very nice girl.
We make love?
No! No! We don't make love. Go to work.
I vas never a member of the Nazi party. I am not responsible. I only followed orders. Who are you?
Mr. Liebkind, wait. You don't understand.
Vhy do you persecute me? My papers are in order. I love my country. "Oh, beautiful for spacious skies, For amber vaves of grain."
Mr. Liebkind, wait ...
"I'm a Yankee Doodle Dandy ...
Mr. Liebkind, relax, relax, we're not from the government. We came here to talk to you about your play.
My play? You mean, "Springtime For ... " you know who?
Yes.
Vat about it?
We loved it. We thought it was a masterpiece. That's why we're here. We want to produce it on Broadway.
You're not, as you Americans say, dragging my leg, are you?
I vas vit him a great deal, you know.
With whom?
Vit the Fuhrer, of course. He liked me. Out of all the household staff at Berchtesgarten, I vas his favorite. I vas the only one allowed into his chambers at bedtime.
No kidding?
Oh, sure. I used to take him his hot milk and his opium. Achhh, those were the days. Vat good times ve had. Dinner parties vit lovely ladies and gentlemen, singing und dancing. You know, not many people knew about it, but the Fuhrer vas a terrific dancer.
Really, I never dreamed ...
That's because you were taken in by that verdampter Allied propaganda. Such filthy lies. But nobody said a bad vord about Winston Churchill, did they? Oh no, Vin Vit Vinnie! Churchill, vit his cigars and his brandy and his rotten paintings. Couldn't even say Nazi. He would say Narzis, Narzis. Ve vere not Narzies, ve vere Nazis. But let me tell this, and you're getting it straight from the horse, Hitler vas better looking than Churchill, he vas a better dresser than Churchill, had more hair, told funnier jokes, and could dance the pants off Churchill!
That's exactly why we want to do this play. To show the world the true Hitler, the Hitler you knew, the Hitler you loved, the Hitler with a song in his heart.
Wait. No. How do I know I can trust you? How do I know you vill present this play in the manner and spirit in vhich it vas conceived?
We swear it!
Not good enough... Vould you be villing to take the Siegfried oath?
Yes. We would!
Good. I will make the preparations.
You think out of all those Hitlers you could find just one...
It was the same thing in Germany. We looked for years before we found the right Hitler.
Vaaaat???
Franz, don't you see, Hitler was a man of his time. This is a man of his time.
But he has long hair!
Don't look at the outside, look at the inside. It's the inner Hitler we're after. The young beautiful Hitler, who danced his way to glory.
I don't know. I don't know.
Franz, trust me. I promise I won't let you down.
All right, but remember, if you damage the Fuhrer's reputation, I kill you.
Not.
Cowards, miserable cringing cowards. Clinging to life like baby butterflies. Vatch, vatch and remember. Franz Liebkind vill show you how to die like a man!
Five o'clock. Killed a whole day playing hideandseek with a crazy Kraut.
I'm not crazy. I'm inept.
Vhere? Vhere?... oh...
You crazy lunatic! What are you shooting at us for? Why don't you use this where it will do us some good? Why don't you shoot the actors? Liebkind, have I ever steered you wrong?
Always.
Never mind. Listen. Every night people are laughing at your beloved Fuhrer. Why?
It's that LSD und his verdampter babies!...
Now ve take the two fuse leads, attach them to the terminals of the conductor and ve're in business.
You mean out of business. Heh, heh.
Plus to minus. Negative to positive. Male to...
Come on. Let's get going.
Qviet. Qviet This is very important.
Here. You see. This is the slow fuse. It is much wider. It has more resistance, more density. Therefore, it burns slower.
You mean you had the slow fuse in your pocket all the time and you forgot to put it on?
Yes. Amazing isn't it?
Vhy do you always call me kraut? Kraut is cabbage! Do ve call you hot dogs? Ve call you Yanks not franks!
All right. Finish the job. Let's get outta here.
Do it! Do it!
I can't. I can't do it. It's a demon. It's a gargoyle, it's a monster... but it's still my child.
Do you need us?
Of course I need you. It's dark in there.
Enough. It's better. Please, Lambchop, it's better. Stop. You're hurting it again.
How do you do. I mean ... Excuse me ... I mean ...
You mean ooops, don't you? Say ooops and get out.
I'll wait in the hall ...
Oooooooops!
Ooooooops.
Uh ... uh ... ooooooops?
Who are you? What do you want? Why are you loitering in my hallway? Speak, dummy, speak! Why don't you speak?
Scared. Can't talk.
All right. Get a hold of yourself. Take a deep breath, let it out slowly and tell me who you are.
I'm Leo Bloom, I'm an accountant, I'm from Whitehall and Marks, I was sent here to do your books and I'm terribly sorry I caught you with the old lady.
Yes sir.
Then account for yourself! Do you believe in God? Do you believe in gold? Why are you looking up old lady's dresses? Bit of a pervert, eh?
But sir, I'm not condem ...
Shut up. I'm having a rhetorical conversation. How humiliating. Max Bialystock. Max Bialystock.
You have exactly ten seconds to change that disgusting look of pity into one of enormous respect. One ... Two ...
Do the books! Do the books!
Yes, sir. Thank you.
Window's so filthy, can't tell if it's day or night out there.
Look at that. A white Rolls Royce. That's it baby, when you got it, flaunt it.
Koff, koff ... ahem, ahem ... harrumph ...
I assume you are making those cartoon noises to attract my attention. Am I correct in my assumption, you fishfaced enemy of the people?
I have hurt your feelings.
Good, what is it?
Sir, may I speak to you for a minute?
Go! You have fiftyeight seconds.
Well, sir, it seems ...
You have fortyeight seconds left. Hurry. Hurry.
In looking at your books, I've discovered that ...
Twentyeight seconds, hurry, hurry, you're using up your time.
What is that? A handkerchief?
It's nothing ... nothing.
Here, don't panic.
I'm sorry ... I don't like people touching my blue blanket. It's not important. It's a minor compulsion. I can deal with it if I want to. It's just that I've had it ever since I was a baby and ... and ... I find it very comforting.
They come here. They all come here. How do they find me?
Mr. Bialystock ...
Yes, Prince Mishkin, what can we do for you?
This is hardly a time for levity. I've discovered a serious error here in the accounts of your last play.
Where? What?
According to the backer's list you raised $60,000. But the show you produced only cost fiftyeight thousand. There's two thousand dollars unaccounted for.
I went to a Turkish bath, who cares? The show was a flop. What difference does it make?
It makes a great deal of difference. That's fraud. If they found out, you could go to prison.
Why should they find out? It's only two thousand dollars, Bloom, do me a favor, move a few decimal points around. You can do it. You're an accountant. The word 'count' is part of your title.
But that's cheating!
It's not cheating ... It's charity. Bloom, look at me ... look at me! I'm drowning. Other men sail through life. Bialystock has struck a reef. Bloom, I'm going under. I am being sunk by a society that demands success, when all I can offer is failure. Bloom, I'm reaching out to you. Don't send me to jail. Help! Help!
Help!
All right. I'll do it. I'll do it.
Thank you, Bloom. I knew I could con you.
Oh, it's all right ... wha?
Nothing. Nothing. Do it. Do it.
Now let's see, two thousand dollars. That isn't much. I'm sure I can hide it somewhere. After all, the department of internal revenue isn't interested in a show that flopped.
Yes. Right. Good thinking. You figure it out. I'm tired. I'm gonna take a little nap. Wake me if there's a fire.
Now let's see, if we add these figures, we get ...
Yes, what?
What you were saying. Keep talking.
What was I saying?
You were saying that under the right circumstances, a producer could make more money with a flop than he could with a hit.
Yes, it's quite possible.
You keep saying that, but you don't tell me how. How could a producer make more money with a flop than with a hit?
Assume away!
Well, it's very easy. You simply raise more money than you really need.
What do you mean?
You've done it yourself, only you did it on a very small scale.
What did I do?
You raised two thousand more than you needed to produce your last play.
So what? What did it get me? I'm wearing a cardboard belt.
Ahhhhhh! But that's where you made your error. You didn't go all the way. You see, if you were really a bold criminal, you could have raised a million.
But the play only cost $60,000 to produce.
Exactly. And how long did it run?
One night.
See? You could have raised a million dollars, put on a sixty thousand dollar flop and kept the rest.
But what if the play was a hit?
Oh, you'd go to jail. If the play were a hit, you'd have to pay off the backers, and with so many backers there could never be enough profits to go around, get it?
Aha, aha, aha, aha, aha, aha!! So, in order for the scheme to work, we'd have to find a sure fire flop.
What scheme?
What scheme? Your scheme, you bloody little genius.
Oh, no. No. No. I meant no scheme. I merely posed a little, academic accounting theory. It's just a thought.
Bloom, worlds are turned on such thoughts!
Mr. Bialystock. No. Wait. Please. You're holding me too tight. I'm an honest man. You don't understand.
No, Bloom, you don't understand. This is fate, this is destiny. There's no avoiding it.
Mr. Bialystock, not more than five minutes ago, against my better judgment, I doctored your books. That, sir, is the ultimate extent of my criminal life.
Oh, I fell on my keys. I've got to get out of here.
You miserable, cowardly, wretched little caterpillar. Don't you ever want to become a butterfly? Don't you want to spread your wings and flap your way to glory?
You're going to jump on me.
You're going to jump on me. I know you're going to jump on me  like Nero jumped on Poppea.
What???
Poppea. She was his wife. And she was unfaithful to him. So he got mad and he jumped on her. Up and down, up and down, until he squashed her like a bug. Please don't jump on me.
I'm not going to jump on you!
Aaaaaaaaaa!
Will you get a hold on yourself.
Don't touch me! Don't touch me!
What are you afraid of? I'm not going to hurt you! What's the matter with you?
I'm hysterical. I'm having hysterics. I'm hysterical. I can't stop. When I get like this, I can't stop. I'm hysterical.
What can I do? What can I do? You're getting me hysterical.
Go away from me. You frighten me. Sit over there.
Okay. I'm way over here. Is that better?
It's a little better, but you still look angry.
How's this?
Good. Good. That's nice. That's very nice. I think I'm coming out of it now. Yes. Yes. I'm definitely coming out of it. Thank you for smiling. It helped a great deal.
Well, you know what they say, "Smile and the world smiles with you." Heh, heh. The man should be in a straight jacket. Feeling better?
Much, thank you. But I am a little lightheaded. Maybe I should eat something. Hysterics have a way of severely depleting one's blood sugar, you know.
They certainly do. They certainly do. Come, let me take you to lunch.
That's very kind of you, Mr. Bialystock, but I ...
I got it, Mr. Bialystock.
Thank you, Leo. And call me Max. You know, I don't let everybody call me Max. It's only people I really like.
Okay ... Max! And you can call me Leo.
I already have. Come on.
Oh.
Where would you like to eat?
Well, Max, I don't know, Max. What do you think, Max?
Let me see ... it's such a beautiful day. Why waste it indoors. I've got it! Let's go to Coney Island! We'll lunch at the sea shore.
Coney Island??
What's the matter, Leo? Don't you like Coney Island?
I ... I love it. I haven't been there since I was a kid. But it's nearly two o'clock. I really should be getting back to Whitehall and Marks.
Nonsense! As far as Whitehall and Marks are concerned, you're working with Bialystock, right?
Right.
Then stick with Bialystock!
What kind now, Leo?
I don't know. Let's see. We've had chocolate, vanilla, banana  let's go green.
Two pistachios, my good man.
Everybody's a big shot. Well, Leo, are you having a good time?
I don't know. I think so. I feel very strange.
Maybe you're happy.
Yes. That's it. Happy. Well, whatta ya think of that. Happy.
You think you're not in prison now? Living in a grey little room. Going to a grey little job. Leading a grey little life.
You're right. You're absolutely right. I'm a nothing. I spend my life counting other people's money  people I'm smarter than, better than. Where's my share? Where's Leo Bloom's share? I want, I want, I want, I want everything I've ever seen in the movies!
You bet your boots, Leo. It's Bialystock and Bloom  on the rise. Upward and onward. Say, you'll join me. Nothing can stop us.
I'll do it! By God, I'll do it!
This is where we belong, Leo. On top of the world. Top of the world!
You can't feel it when it's in your hand, when it's in your pocket.
Max, what is it? What are you doing? What's happening?
I'll tell you what's happening. We've struck gold. Not fool's gold, but real gold. The mother lode. The mother lode. The mother of them all.
You found a flop!
A flop, ha! That's putting it mildly. A disaster! A catastrophe! An outrage! A guaranteedtoclose inonenight beauty!
It won't run a week!
Run a week? Are you kidding? This play has got to close in the first act.
Who wrote it?
Max, I don't want to take any Siegfried Oath. I don't know what it is, but I don't want to take it. We might end up in the German Army.
Shut up, you idiot. He's a harmless nut. Play along with him. It's almost in the bag.
There it is... in red and white! "Springtime For Hitler," signed, sealed and delivered. What's the matter with you?
Look, I'm just not wearing this arm band. I don't care how big the deal is.
Okay, take it off, take it off.
Mrs. Eleanor Biddlecombe. She also owns 50% of the profits.
Mrs. Virginia Resnick. She also owns 50% of the profits.
Mrs. Alma Wentworth. She owns 100% of the profits.
Leo, what if this play is a hit?
Then the Department of Justice owns 100% of Bialystock and Bloom.
OI. I'm depressed. Leo, do me a favor. Open the safe. I want to see the money.
What are you doing?
I'm going to buy a toy. I worked very, very hard and I think I deserve a toy.
How do you do. Have you gone mad? A receptionist that can't speak English. What will people say?
They'll say, "Oooh, wah, wah, wah, ooh, ooh."
What is she gonna do here?
I'll show you. Ulla, go to work.
Max, as I was saying, maybe we should go easy on the spending. I mean these offices and everything.
Why? Take it when you can get it! Flaunt it, baby, flaunt it!
But if something should... God forbid... go wrong, at least we could give them some of their money back. It would look better in court.
Stop talking like that, you white mouse! Nothing's going to go wrong. As a matter of fact, today I have taken steps to insure total disaster. At two o'clock we have an appointment with none other than Roger De Bris.
Roger De Bris. Roger De Bris. Oh yes, the director. Is he good... I mean bad?
Roger De Bris is the worst director that ever lived.
Do you think he'll take the job?
Only if we ask him.
Well, it's... uh... it's nice and long... I mean, it's... uh... uh... where do you keep your wallet?
It's gorgeous. Absolutely gorgeous. You couldn't have picked a better color. It brings out your eyes. Let's face it, Roger, that dress is you.
So much for Nutsy Fagin.
Here comes the Times Drama Critic.
Watch closely, as Bialystock drives the last nail into the coffin.
To failure!
To failure!
Maybe it's not true!
No way out. No way out.
Bloom, Bloom, maybe it's not true.
No way out. No way out. What? Who?
Why don't we go over to the theatre and see what's really happening? After all, we've only heard from a small portion of the audience. Let's hear what the majority thinks.
The majority. The majority. Yes. Let's hear from the majority.
What are you doing with those books? Where are you going?
I'm turning myself in. It's the only way. I'm going to cooperate with the authorities. They'll reduce my sentence and then there's time off for good behavior. And maybe I'll get a job in the prison library. So long.
I never should have listened to you.
Ohhhhhhhhh, how I hate you.
Double. Double. Double.
Here. Buy bullets. Kill. Kill them all!
What???
Shut up.
They are? Have you ever eaten with one? Liebkind, go! Kill!
Liebkind, no!
What are you doing? We're trapped. It's either the show or us. There's no way out. What can we do, blow up the theatre?
Max, I...
What is it?
Well, I... Well, it's just that... I'm sorry I called you fat, fat, fat.
Ahhhhhh. Leo, Leo, Leo.
Don't help me.
He's a liar and a cheat and a scoundrel. He's taken money from little old ladies. He's talked people into doing things they never would have dreamed of. Especially me. But who has he really hurt?
"By the light, by the light,
"Of the silvery moon,
"Of the silvery mooooon,
"I want to croon,
"He wants to croon, he wants to croon,
"To my honey I'll croon,
"He's gonna croon love's tune,
"Honeymoon,
"Honeymoon, honeymoon,
"Keep a shining in...
How would you like to go back to teasing hair, big mouth?
Roger, do you mind if we talk a little business?
Please, please, that's what we're here for. Be careful, that hurt.
I think this would be a marvelous opportunity for you, Roger. Up to now, you've always been associated with musicals, and...
Yes. Dopey showgirls in gooey gowns. Twothreekickturn! Turn turnkickturn! It's enough to make you throw up! At last a chance to do straight drama! To deal with conflict, with inner truth. Roger De Bris presents history. Of course, I think we should add a little music. That whole third act has got to go. They're losing the war. It's too depressing. We'll have to put something in there. Aaahghhh! I see it! A line of beautiful girls, dressed as Storm Troopers, black patent leather boots, all marching together... Twothreekickturn! Turnturn kickturn!
That's genius. That's genius. Roger, I think I speak for Mr. Bloom and myself when I say that you're the only man in the world who can do justice to SPRINGTIME FOR HITLER.
Wait a minute. This is a very big decision. It might effect the course of my entire life. I'll have to think about it. I'll do it.
Congratulations.
Get on the phone. Send out a casting call. Call every agent in town. I want to see everybody. Everybody.
Wait! This is Boomerang. This is Boomerang.
What are you saying?
Let's hear him. What have we got to lose? What's your name?
You feeling any better?
A little bit.
Guess what.
What?
Your grandfather's here.
Mom, can't you tell him that I'm sick?
You are sick, that's why he's here.
He'll pinch my cheek. I hate that.
Maybe he won't.
 get back, witch 
I'm not a witch, I'm your wife. But after what you just said, I'm not even sure I want to be that anymore.
You never had it so good.  95.
"True love." He said, "true love," Max. My God 
Don't say another word, Valerie.
He's afraid. Ever since Prince Humperdinck fired him, his confidence is shattered.
Why'd you say that name  you promised me that you would never say that name 
What, Humperdinck? Humperdinck. Humperdinck. Oooooo, Humperdinck
I'm not listening.
A life expiring and you don't have the decency to say why you won't help 
Nobody's hearing nothing!
Humperdinck. Humperdinck! Humperdinck!
The chocolate coating makes it go down easier. But you have to wait fifteen minutes for full potency. And you shouldn't go swimming after, for at least, what?
An hour.
Yeah, an hour.
A good hour. Yeah.
Byebye, boys.
Have fun storming the castle.
Think it'll work?
It would take a miracle. Bye!
Bye.
Let me explain
 there's nothing to explain. You're trying to kidnap what I've rightfully stolen.  43.
Perhaps an arrangement can be reached.
There will be no arrangement   and you're killing her!
But if there can be no arrangement, then we are at an impasse.
I'm afraid so  I can't compete with you physically. And you're no match for my brains.
You're that smart?
Let me put it this way: have you ever heard of Plato, Aristotle, Socrates?
Yes.
Morons.
Really? In that case, I challenge you to a battle of wits.
For the Princess?
I accept.
Good. Then pour the wine.
Inhale this, but do not touch.
I smell nothing.
What you do not smell is called iocane powder. It is odorless, tasteless, dissolves instantly in liquid, and is among the more deadlier poisons known to man.
Hmm.
Now, a clever man would put the poison into his own goblet, because he would know that only a great fool would reach for what he was given. I'm not a great fool, so I can clearly not choose the wine in front of you. But you must have known I was not a great fool; you would have counted on it, so I can clearly not choose the wine in front of me.
You've made your decision then7
Not remotely. Because iocane comes from Australia, as everyone knows. And Australia is entirely peopled with criminals. And criminals are used to having people not trust them, as you are not trusted by me. So I can clearly not choose the wine in front of you.
Truly, you have a dizzying intellect.
Wait till I get going! Where was I?
Australia.
Yes  Australia, and you must have suspected I would have known the powder's origin, so I can clearly not choose the wine in front of me.  46.
You're just stalling now.
You'd like to think that, wouldn't you? You've beaten my giant, which means you're exceptionally strong. So, you could have put the poison in your own goblet, trusting on your strength to save you. So I can clearly not choose the wine in front of you. But, you've also bested my Spaniard which means you must have studied. And in studying, you must have learned that man is mortal so you would have put the poison as far from yourself as possible, so I can clearly not choose the wine in front of me.
You're trying to trick me into giving away something  it won't work 
It has worked  you've given everything away  I know where the poison is.
Then make your choice.
I will. And I choose 
What's so funny?
I'll tell you in a minute. First, let's drink  me from my glass, and you from yours.
You guessed wrong.
You only think I guessed wrong   that's what's so funny! I switched glasses when your back was turned. You fool.
Making sure nobody's following us.
That would be inconceivable.
Stop doing that. We can all relax, it's almost over
You're sure nobody's following us?
As I told you, it would be absolutely, totally, and in all other ways, inconceivable. No one in Guilder knows what we've done. And no one in Florin could have gotten here so fast. Out of curiosity, why do you ask?
No reason. It's only, I just happened to look behind us, and something is there.
What?
Go in, get after her!
I don't swim.  15.
Look! He's right on top of us. I wonder if he is using the same wind we are using.
Whoever he is, he's too late   see? The Cliffs of Insanity.  19.
He's climbing the rope. And he's gaining on us.
Inconceivable!
He didn't fall? Inconceivable!!
You keep using that word  I do not think it means what you think it means. My God! He's climbing.
I want to duel him lefthanded.
You know what a hurry we're in.
Well, it's the only way I can be satisfied. If I use my right  tch  over too quickly.
Oh, have it your way.
Slow going?
Look, I don't mean to be rude, but this is not as easy as it looks. So I'd appreciate it if you wouldn't distract me.
Sorry.
Thank you.
I do not suppose you could speed things up?
If you're in such a hurry, you could lower a rope, or a tree branch, or find something useful to do.  26.
I could do that. In fact, I've got some rope up here. But I do not think that you will accept my help, since I am only waiting around to kill you.
That does put a damper on our relationship.
But I promise I will not kill you until you reach the top.
That's very comforting. But I'm afraid you'll just have to wait.
I hate waiting. I could give you my word as a Spaniard.
No good. I've known too many Spaniards.
You don't know any way you'll trust me?
Nothing comes to mind.
We'll wait until you're ready.
Again. Thank you.
Do you always begin conversations this way?
My father was slaughtered by a sixfingered man. He was a great swordmaker, my father. And when the sixfingered man appeared and requested a special sword, my father took the job. He slaved a year before he was done.
How old were you?
I was eleven years old. When I was strong enough, I dedicated my life to the study of fencing. So the next time we meet, I will not fail. I will go up to the sixfingered man and say, "Hello, my name is Inigo Montoya. You killed my father. Prepare to die."
You've done nothing but study swordplay?
More pursuit than study lately. You see, I cannot find him. It's been twenty years now. I am starting to lose confidence. I just work for Vizzini to pay the bills. There's not a lot of money in revenge.
Well, I certainly hope you find him, someday.
You are ready, then?
Whether I am or not, you've been more than fair.  30.
You seem a decent fellow. I hate to kill you.
You seem a decent fellow. I hate to die.
Begin!
I thought it fitting, considering the rocky terrain 
Naturally, you must expect me to attack with Capo Ferro.
You are wonderful!
Thank you  I've worked hard to become so.
I admit it  you are better than I am.
Then why are you smiling?
Because I know something you don't know.
And what is that?
I am not lefthanded.
You're amazing!
I ought to be after twenty years.
There's something I ought to tell you.
Tell me.
I am not lefthanded either.
Who are you?!
No one of consequence.
I must know.
Get used to disappointment.
Okay.
Kill me quickly.
I would as soon destroy a stained glass window as an artist like yourself. However, since I can't have you following me either 
What? What?
Are you the Miracle Max who worked for the King all those years?
The King's stinking son fired me. And thank you so much for bringing up such a painful subject. While you're at it, why don't you give me a nice paper cut and pour lemon juice on it? We're closed!
Look, I'm retired. And besides, why would you want someone the King's stinking son fired? I might kill whoever you wanted me to miracle.
He's already dead.
He is, eh? I'll take a look. Bring him in.
Sir. Sir.
Hah?
We're really in a terrible rush.
Don't rush me, sonny. You rush a miracle man, you get rotten miracles. You got money?
Sixtyfive.
Sheesh! I never worked for so little, except once, and that was a very noble cause.  93.
This is noble, sir. His wife is crippled. His children are on the brink of starvation.
Are you a rotten liar.
I need him to help avenge my father, murdered these twenty years.
Your first story was better. Where's that bellows? He probably owes you money, huh? Well, I'll ask him.
He's dead. He can't talk.
Look who knows so much. Well, it just so happens that your friend here is only mostly dead. There's a big difference between mostly dead and all dead. Please open his mouth.
Now, mostly dead is slightly alive. Now, all dead...well, with all dead, there's usually only one thing that you can do.
What's that?
True love. You heard him. You could not ask for a more noble cause than that.
Sonny, true love is the greatest thing in the world. Except for a nice MLT, a mutton, lettuce and tomato sandwich, where the mutton is nice and lean and the tomato is ripe. They're so perky, I love that. But that's not what he said. He distinctly said "to blave." And, as we all know, "to blave" means "to bluff." So you're probably playing cards, and he cheated
Humiliations galore!
That is a noble cause. Give me the sixtyfive, I'm on the job.
Thank you for everything.
Okay.  97.
Hello. My name is Inigo Montoya. You killed my father. Prepare to die.
Stop saying that!
No 
 offer me money 
 yes 
 power too  promise me that 
 all that I have and more please 
 offer me everything I ask for 
 anything you want 
I WANT MY FATHER BACK, YOU SON OFABITCH!
Your guess is as good as mine 
I'll beat you both apart. I'll take you both together.
Who are you?  Are we enemies? Why am I on this wall?  Where's Buttercup? 
Let me explain   No, there is too much. Let me sum up.  99.
Buttercup is marrying Humperdinck in a little less than half an hour, so all we have to do is get in, break up the wedding, steal the Princess, make our escape after I kill Count Rugen.
That doesn't leave much time for dilly dallying.
And it is guarded by sixty men.
And our assets?
Your brains, Fezzik's strength, my steel.
Well, why didn't you list that among our assets in the first place? What I wouldn't give for a holocaust cloak.
There we cannot help you.
Why? You can't even lift one.
True, but that's hardly common knowledge, is it? Thank you. Now, there may be problems once we're inside.
I'll say  how do I find the Count?  Once I do, how do I find you again?  Once I find you again, how do we escape? 
Now?
Not yet.
Now?
Light him.
Where's Fezzik?
I thought he was with you.
No.
In that case 
You know, it's very strange  I have been in the revenge business so long, now that it's over, I don't know what to do with the rest of my life.
Have you ever considered piracy? You'd make a wonderful Dread Pirate Roberts.
There was a mighty duel  it ranged all over. They were both masters.
Who won? How did it end?
The loser ran off alone. The winner followed those footprints toward Guilder!
Shall we track them both?
The loser is nothing.  Only the Princess matters   clearly this was all planned by warriors of Guilder. We must be ready for whatever lies ahead.  42.
Could this be a trap?
I always think everything could be a trap  Which is why I'm still alive.
Once we're out of sight, take him back to Florin and throw him in the Pit of Despair.
I swear it will be done.
She's been like that ever since the Fire Swamp. It's my father's failing health that's upsetting her.
Of course.
I could never cause you grief; consider our wedding off. You returned this Westley to his ship?
Yes.
Then we will simply alert him. Beloved, are you certain he still wants you? After all, it was you who did the leaving in the Fire Swamp. Not to mention that pirates are not known to be men of their words.
Your Princess is really a winning creature. A trifle simple, perhaps, but her appeal is undeniable.
Oh, I know. The people are quite taken with her. It's odd, but when I hired Vizzini to have her murdered on our engagement day, I thought that was clever. But it's going to be so much more moving when I strangle her on our wedding night. Once Guilder is blamed, the nation will be truly outraged. They'll demand we go to war.
Now, where is that secret knot? It's impossible to find. Are you coming down into the Pit? Westley's got his strength back. I am starting him on The Machine tonight.
Tyrone, you know how much I love watching you work. But, I've got my country's five hundredth anniversary to plan, my wedding to arrange, My wife to murder, and Guilder to frame for it. I'm swamped.  75.
You mean you wish to surrender to me? Very well, I accept.
I give you full marks for bravery don't make yourself a fool.
Ah, but how will you capture us? We know the secrets of the Fire Swamp. We can live there quite happily for some time. So, whenever you feel like dying, feel free to visit.
I tell you once again  surrender!
It will not happen!
For the last time  SURRENDER!
DEATH FIRST!!
A technicality that will shortly be remedied. But first things first. To the death.
No. To the pain.
I don't think I'm quite familiar with that phrase.
I'll explain. And I'll use small words so that you'll be sure to understand, you warthogfaced buffoon.
That may be the first time in my life a man has dared insult me.
 and then my tongue, I suppose. I killed you too quickly the last time, a mistake I don't mean to duplicate tonight.
I wasn't finished  the next thing you lose will be your left eye, followed by your right 
 and then my ears, I understand. Let's get on with it
Wrong! Your ears you keep, and I'll tell you why 
Yellin.
Sire.
As Chief Enforcer of all Florin, I trust you with this secret: killers from Guilder are infiltrating the Thieves' Forest and plan to murder my bride on our wedding night.
My spy network has heard no such news.
She will not be murdered. On the day of the wedding, I want the Thieves' Forest emptied and every inhabitant arrested.
Many of the thieves will resist. My regular enforcers will be inadequate.
Form a Brute Squad then. I want the Thieves' Forest emptied before I wed.
It won't be easy, Sire.
Try ruling the world sometime.
Rise and report.
The Thieves' Forest is emptied. Thirty men guard the castle gate.
Double it. My Princess must be safe.
The gate has but one key, and I carry that.
I brought you a special present.
What is it?
Open it up.
A book?
That's right. When I was your age, television was called books. And this is a special book. It was the book my father used to read to me when I was sick, and I used to read it to your father. And today, I'm gonna read it to you.
Has it got any sports in it?
It doesn't sound too bad. I'll try and stay awake.
Oh. Well, thank you very much. It's very nice of you. Your vote of confidence is overwhelming. All right. The Princess Bride, by S. Morgenstern. Chapter One. Buttercup was raised on a small farm in the country of Florin.
Her favorite pastimes were riding her horse and tormenting the farm boy that worked there. His name was Westley, but she never called him that. Isn't that a wonderful beginning?
Yeah. It's really good.
Nothing gave Buttercup as much pleasure as ordering Westley around.
hold it, hold it
What is this? Are you trying to trick me?  Where's the sports?  Is this a kissing book?
 wait, just wait 
 well, when does it get good?
Keep your shirt on. Let me read. Westley had no money for marriage. So he packed his few belongings and left the farm to seek his fortune across the sea.
It was a very emotional time for Buttercup 
I don't beleeve this.
Westley didn't reach his destination. His ship was attacked by the Dread Pirate Roberts, who never left captives alive. When Buttercup got the news that Westley was murdered 
 murdered by pirates is good 
What?
The Eel doesn't get her. I'm explaining to you because you looked nervous.
Well, I wasn't nervous.
Well, maybe I was a little bit concerned. But that's not the same thing.
Because I can stop now if you want.
No. You could read a little bit more ... if you want.  17.
Oh no. No, please.
What is it? What's the matter?  56.
They're kissing again, do we have to hear the kissing part?
Someday, you may not mind so much.
Skip on to the Fire Swamp  that sounded good.
Oh. You're sick, I'll humor you. So now, where were we here? Yeah, yeah, yeah. Ah. Oh. Okay. Westley and Buttercup raced along the ravine floor.
You read that wrong. She doesn't marry Humperdinck, she marries Westley. I'm just sure of it. After all that Westley did for her, if she does not marry him, it wouldn't be fair.
Well, who says life is fair? Where is that written? Life isn't always fair.
I'm telling you you're messing up the story, now get it right!
Do you want me to go on with this?
Yes.
All right, then. No more interruptions. ... at noon, she met her subjects again. This time as their Queen.
It was ten days till the wedding. The King still lived, but Buttercup's nightmares were growing steadily worse.
See? Didn't I tell you she'd never marry that rotten Humperdinck?
 yes, you're very smart. ShutUp.
Westley's only faking, right?
You want me to read this or not?
Who gets Humperdinck?
I don't understand.
Who kills Prince Humperdinck? At the end, somebody's got to do it. Is it Inigo? Who?
Nobody. Nobody kills him. He lives.  90.
No! I'm okay. I'm okay.  sit down. All right?
Okay. All right, now, let's see. Where were we? Oh yes. In the Pit of Despair.
What? What?
No, it's kissing again. You don't want to hear it.
I don't mind so much.
Now I think you ought to go to sleep.
Okay.
Okay. Okay. Okay. All right. So long.  124.
Maybe you could come over and read it again to me tomorrow.
As you wish...
Probably he means no harm.
He's really very short on charm.
Oh, you've a great gift for rhyme.
Yes, some of the time.
FEZZIK, are there rocks ahead?
If there are, we'll all be dead.
Hello.
It's you.
True!
You don't look so good. You don't smell so good either.
Perhaps not. I feel fine.
Yeah?
He's with the Prince in the Castle. But the castle gate is guarded by thirty men.
How many could you handle?
I don't think more than ten.
That leaves twenty for me. At my best, I could never defeat that many. I need Vizzini to plan. I have no gift for strategy.  82.
No  not Vizzini  I need the Man in Black 
 what? 
 look, he bested you with strength, your greatness. He bested me with steel. He must have outthought Vizzini, and a man who can do that can plan my castle's onslaught any day. Let's go 
 where?
To find the Man in Black, obviously.
But you don't know where he is.
Don't bother me with trifles; after twenty years, at last, my father's soul will be at peace.
The Man in Black?
His true love is marrying another tonight, so who else has cause for Ultimate Suffering? Excuse me 
 Fezzik, please 
Everybody ... MOVE!!
Well, we Montoyas have never taken defeat easily. Come along, Fezzik. Bring the body.
The body?
Have you any money?
I have a little.
I just hope it's enough to buy a miracle, that's all.  91.
Inigo  there's more than thirty 
What's the difference? We've got him. Help me here. We'll have to force feed him.
Has it been fifteen minutes?
We can't wait  the wedding's in half an hour and we must strike in the hustle and the bustle beforehand.
Tilt his head back. Open his mouth.
How long do we have to wait before we know if the miracle works?
You've been mostly dead all day.
We had Miracle Max make a pill to bring you back.
Where did we put that wheelbarrow the Albino had?
Over the Albino, I think.
Will this do?
Where did you get that?
At Miracle Max's. It fit so nice, he said I could keep it.
Don't pester him, he's had a hard day.
Right, right, sorry.
Inigo.
What?
I hope we win...
He's getting away from me, Fezzik. Please. FEZZIK!
I'll be right back.
It's fabric from the uniform of an Army officer of Guilder.
Who's Guilder?
The country across the sea. The sworn enemy of Florin. Go!
Once the horse reaches the castle, the fabric will make the Prince suspect the Guilderians have abducted his love. When he finds her body dead on the Guilder frontier, his suspicions will be totally confirmed.
You never said anything about killing anyone.
I've hired you to help me start a war. That's a prestigious line of work with a long and glorious tradition.
I just don't think it's right, killing an innocent girl.
Am I going mad or did the word "think" escape your lips? You were not hired for your brains, you hippopotamic land mass.
No more rhymes now, I mean it.
Anybody want a peanut?
I only dog paddle.
Veer left. Left. Left!
Faster!
I thought I was going faster.
You were supposed to be this colossus. You were this great, legendary thing. And yet he gains.
Well, I'm carrying three people. And he's got only himself.
 I do not accept excuses. I'm just going to have to find myself a new giant, that's all.
Don't say that, Vizzini. Please.
You be careful.  people in masks cannot be trusted.
I'm waiting!
Give her to me. Catch up with us quickly.
What do I do?
Finish him, finish him. Your way.
Oh, good, my way. Thank you, Vizzini. Which way is my way?
I did that on purpose. I don't have to miss.
I believe you  So what happens now?
We face each other as God intended. Sportsmanlike. No tricks, no weapons, skill against skill alone.
You mean, you'll put down your rock and I'll put down my sword, and we'll try to kill each other like civilized people?
I could kill you now.
Frankly, I think the odds are slightly in your favor at hand fighting.
It's not my fault being the biggest and the strongest. I don't even exercise.  38.
Look are you just fiddling around with me or what?
I just want you to feel you're doing well. I hate for people to die embarrassed.
You're quick.
And a good thing too.
Why do you wear a mask? Were you burned by acid, or something like that?  39.
Why is that, do you think?
Well, I haven't fought just one person for so long. I've been specializing in groups. Battling gangs for local charities, that kind of thing.
Why should that make such a difference?
Well ... ... you see, you use different moves when you're fighting half a dozen people than when you only have to be worried about one.
Farm boy. Polish my horse's saddle. I want to see my face shining in it by morning.
As you wish.
Farm Boy. Fill these with water  please.
As you wish.
I fear I'll never see you again.
Of course you will.
But what if something happens to you?
Hear this now: I will come for you.
But how can you be sure?
This is true love. You think this happens every day?
Can you move at all?
Move? You're alive. If you want, I can fly.
I told you, "I would always come for you." Why didn't you wait for me?
Well ... you were dead.
Death cannot stop true love. All it can do is delay it for a while.
I will never doubt again.
There will never be a need.
We'll never survive.
Nonsense  you're only saying that because no one ever has.  57.
Singed a bit, were you?
You?  58.
This will all soon be but a happy memory because Roberts' ship "Revenge" is anchored at the far end. And I, as you know, am Roberts.
But how is that possible, since he's been marauding twenty years and you only left me five years ago?
I myself am often surprised at life's little quirks.  59.
Finally, Roberts decided something. He said, "All right, Westley, I've never had a valet. You can try it for tonight. I'll most likely kill you in the morning." Three years he said that. "Good night, Westley. Good work. Sleep well. I'll most likely kill you in the morning." It was a fine time for me. I was learning to fence, to fight, anything anyone would teach me. And Roberts and I eventually became friends. And then it happened.
What?  go on 
We'll never succeed  we may as well die here.
No. No. We have already succeeded.
I mean, what are the three terrors of the Fire Swamp? One, the flame spurts. No problem. There's a popping sound preceding each, we can avoid that. Two, the Lightning Sand. But you were clever enough to discover what that looks like, so in the future we can avoid that too.
Westley, what about the R.O.U.S.'s?
Rodents of Unusual Size? I don't think they exist...
We did it.
Now, was that so terrible?  64.
Oh, Westley, darling. Westley, why won't you hold me?
Gently.
At a time like this that's all you can think to say? "Gently?"
Gently!!
Oh, Westley, will you ever forgive me?
What hideous sin have you committed lately?
I got married. I didn't want to. It all happened so fast.
It never happened.
What?
It never happened.  117.
But it did. I was there. This old man said, "Man and wife."
Did you say, "I do"?
Well, no, we sort of skipped that part.
Then you're not married  if you didn't say it, you didn't do it  wouldn't you agree, Your Highness?
Who are you?
I am no one to be trifled with, that is all you ever need know.
To think  all that time it was your cup that was poisoned.
They were both poisoned. I spent the last few years building up an immunity to iocane powder.
Catch your breath.
If you'll release me ... whatever you ask for ransom ... you'll get it, I promise you...
And what is that worth, the promise of a woman? You're very funny, Highness.
I was giving you a chance. No matter where you take me ... there's no greater hunter than Prince Humperdinck. He could track a falcon on a cloudy day. He can find you
You think your dearest love will save you?  50.
I never said he was my dearest love. And yes, he will save me. That I know.
You admit to me you do not love your fiance?
He knows I do not love him.
"Are not capable of love" is what you mean.
I have loved more deeply than a killer like yourself could ever dream.
Rest, Highness.
I know who you are  your cruelty reveals everything.
You're the Dread Pirate Roberts; admit it.
With pride. What can I do for you?
You can die slowly cut into a thousand pieces.
Hardly complimentary, Your Highness. Why loose your venom on me?
On the high seas, your ship attacked, and the Dread Pirate Roberts never takes prisoners.
I can't afford to make exceptions. Once word leaks out that a pirate has gone soft, people begin to disobey you, and then it's nothing but work, work, work, all the time.
You mock my pain!
Life is pain, Highness. Anyone who says differently is selling something. I remember this farm boy of yours, I think. This would be, what, five years ago?
Does it bother you to hear?
Nothing you can say will upset me.
He died well, that should please you. No bribe attempts or blubbering. He simply said, "Please. Please, I need to live." It was the "please" that caught my memory.  53.
I asked him what was so important for him. "True love," he replied. And then he spoke of a girl of surpassing beauty and faithfulness. I can only assume he meant you. You should bless me for destroying him before he found out what you really are.
And what am I?
Faithfulness he talked of, madam. Your enduring faithfulness. Now, tell me truly. When you found out he was gone, did you get engaged to your prince that same hour, or did you wait a whole week out of respect for the dead?
You mocked me once, never do it again  I died that day!
... as ... you ... wish...
Oh, my sweet Westley; what have I done?
If we surrender, and I return with you, will you promise not to hurt this man?
May I live a thousand years and never hunt again.
He is a sailor on the pirate ship "Revenge." Promise to return him to his ship.
I swear it will be done.
My Westley will always come for me.
I suggest a deal. You write four copies of a letter. I'll send my four fastest ships. One in each direction. The Dread Pirate Roberts is always close to Florin this time of year. We'll run up the white flag and deliver your message. If Westley wants you, bless you both. If not ... please consider me as an alternative to suicide. Are we agreed?
He will come for me.
Of course.
Ah! My dulcet darling. Tonight we marry. Tomorrow morning, your men will escort us to Florin Channel where every ship in my armada waits to accompany us on our honeymoon.
Every ship but your four fastest, you mean.
Every ship but the four you sent.
Yes. Yes, of course. Naturally, not those four.
You never sent the ships. Don't bother lying. It doesn't matter. Westley will come for me anyway.
You're a silly girl.
Yes, I am a silly girl, for not having seen sooner that you were nothing but a coward with a heart full of fear.
Iwouldnotsaysuch thingsif Iwereyou
Why not? You can't hurt me. Westley and I are joined by the bonds of love. And you cannot track that. Not with a thousand bloodhounds. And you cannot break it. Not with a thousand swords. And when I say you are a coward, that is only because you are the slimiest weakling ever to crawl the earth.
You don't seem excited, my little muffin.
Should I be?
Brides often are, I'm told.
I do not marry tonight.
I killed him myself.
Then why is there fear behind your eyes?
Don't even think   don't even think about trying to escape. The chains are far too thick. And don't dream of being rescued either. The only way in is secret. And only the Prince, the Count, and I know how to get in and out.
Then I'm here till I die?
Till they kill you. Yeah.
Then why bother curing me?
The Prince and the Count always insist on everyone being healthy before they're broken.
So it's to be torture.
You don't believe me?
You survived the Fire Swamp. You must be very brave... ... but nobody withstands The Machine.  69.
Having a good time, Vivian?
Yeah. Thanks.
All this must be quite a change from Hollywood Boulevard.
What?
It's okay. Edward told me. Your secret's safe with me.
Yeah. Sure. Why not. Call me at the Regent Beverly Wilshire.
I just might do that.
Do you want to know what he did? Do you want to know what the crazy son of a bitch did? He handed the whole thing back to Kross! On a silver platter. For no reason! What was he thinking, I mean, what was going through his goddam head? Why? What was all that benevolent crap? What are we going to become, a philanthropic foundation? I'll probably be the director of several worthwhile charities.
I think it's great.
I bet. A lousy whore and you're the gum in a hundred million dollar deal.
Aw, come on, Bill. It's just business.
Get out!
Don't worry. I'll pay for it. What a you charge? Huh? Twenty, thirty, fifty bucks, <u>maybe</u>? Are you a fifty dollar whore?
May I help you?
I'm just looking, thanks.
Are you looking for something in particular?
Yes. Something... conservative.
Yes...
You have beautiful things. How much is this?
I don't think it would fit you.
I didn't ask if it would fit. I asked how much it was.
It's very expensive.
What is with you?
Excuse me?
I'm going to spend <u>money</u>.
I don't think we have anything for you here. You're obviously in the wrong place.
Would you like to try it on?
'Scume me.
Yes?
Do you remember me?
No, I'm sorry, I don't.
I was in here yesterday.
I'm just going to my room.
You're a guest here?
I'm  I'm with a friend.
And who is that?
I... Edward...
What's your name?
Vivian.
Miss Vivian... things that go on in other hotels don't happen at the Regent Beverly Wilshire.
Niece?
Of course. Naturally when Mr. Harris leaves, I won't see you in this hotel again.
I got a dress.
I rather hoped you'd be wearing it.
I didn't want to get it messed. I got shoes too. Wanna see?
That's all right. I'm sure they're quite lovely.
They were real nice to me there. They treated me, y'know... nice. Thanks, Barney.
What is it, Miss Vivian?
Edward is taking me to some fancy place for dinner. The Rex. Ever been there?
It's a bit beyond my... range, shall we say.
Yeah, mine too. Is it like, y'know, normal?
I think you'll find it normal enough.
Will I like it?
You'll like it fine.
Okay. Thanks, Barney. You're the best.
In fifteen minutes I can teach you everything you need to know to dine with the Queen. First, as you pick up the knife you shift your fork to the left hand.
But I always eat like this.
Either you're European or badly brought up.
Hmmm... I vonder vich.
Actually, some of the richest people I know have the worst manners. Of course, Mr. Harris, being of old money, knows his way around a table. All right now, pay attention please. Salad fork.
What if they serve soup?
They will serve salad.
But what if they serve soup?
Then you use your <u>soup spoon</u>.
I like steak.
Then you would use your
Steak spoon!
Miss Vivian 
Maybe I'll just order a burger, Barney, that way I can eat with my hands.
Miss Vivian... there's a salon here in the hotel. Instead of worrying unnecessarily about table manners, why don't you just have your hair done instead?
Professionally?
Barnard Thomas here. Miss Vivian, I wonder if you might come down to the front desk. There's someone here to see you.
Me?
I'd send them up, but sadly, I don't trust the young lady to find you on her own.
Hi, Barney!
Miss Vivian.
Look I just wanted to say goodbye.
Mr. Harris doesn't check out until tomorrow.
Yeah, well, I check out today.
You're not accompanying him to New York?
Come on, Barney, you and me live in the real world. You don't know how to treat a girl like anything but a lady, Mr. Thomas.
Certain ladies make that very easy... Vivian. John, call a limousine for our guest, please. Have it take her anywhere she wishes to go. Bill the hotel. See you again sometime soon.
Housekeeping. I come to turn down the bed. 5:00, I turn down the bed.
What?
<u>Housekeeping</u>. I come to turn down the bed.
Okay.
Is that all? You just fold back the bedspread?
I also place las chocolates on the pillow.
Oooh, I love those.
I leave extras, miss.
Thanks! Consuelo, are all rich people so lazy they can't do this on their own?
Yeah, what?
Rent. You're late.
Don't give me that. Kit gave it to you yesterday, cash.
Kit give me nothin'.
You bullshittin' me?
Of rent I do not bullshit.
You spent it on drugs, didn't you?
Hi, Viv. Carlos, you know my roommate, Viv.
Carlos had some great rock.
I bet. That was our rent!
We worked for that money. We were gonna put together enough to get out of that dump we live in, get off this street.
Viv... don't be stupid. We're whores.
I just saw somebody pulled out of a dumpster. I wonder how much she made tonight?
Don't be mad at me. I'll pay you back. I promise.
I thought you were giving up that drug shit.
I will. I'm trying. Meanwhile I got some crack left, you wanna get high?
No, let's go to work. Okay?
Okay. I'm sorry I said your dream was stupid.
Looks slow tonight.
Maybe we should get a pimp. Carlos likes you and 
Forget it. We work for it. We keep it.
I can't handle this tonight. I'm going home.
That crack is burning a hole in your pocket. There isn't even milk in the fridge. The rent's due. Now come on 
Hey, hey  There's a rent.
He's not gonna want us.
'Lo.
Kit! Where've you been?
I was asleep. You woke me. You okay?
Kit, listen, the guy last night, the one in the Ferrari, I'm at this hotel, the Regent Beverly Wilshire, it's this absolutely unbelievable place and he's hired me for a whole week and Kit, listen, he's paying me three thousand bucks! We can get out of the apartment. We can get out of this town. We can do anything! Kit? Hey, you there?
Why'd he want you?
He... he just does.
I'm sorry, Viv'. Carlos has been on my back. Did you get the money up front like I taught ya'?
Three hundred for last night and he gave me extra to buy some clothes. Now listen, I'm gonna leave an envelope for you at the front desk. Give me two hundred to the scum bucket and the other hundred to that asshole landlord for part of the rent. Spend it on drugs and I'll pull your hair out.
I'm getting dressed now. I'll be over. Bye.
Hey Kit, where do I go for the clothes? Good stuff on <u>him</u>.
In Beverly Hills?
Yeah.
Baby! Rodeo Drive.
Yes, I'm glad you're clean but I've been calling and calling.
Was that you?
Who did you think?
Carlos. I still owe him two hundred bucks...
Kit, I left that money for you days ago.
Yeah. I just got it.
Kit...
Everybody keeps starin' at me.
Yeah... I know what you mean.
What do you know? You look <u>good</u>. All dressed up. You clean up real nice. You sure don't fit in down on the Boulevard, lookin' like you do. Not that you ever did anyway.
You think I fit here where they just about chew your food for you?
Where do you fit?
I kissed him, Kit. On the mouth.
Honey, you're not supposed to do that.
I know. I stopped pretending and started liking it with him for real.
Oh, my god, you mean it was good?
It was great.
Dummy.
He wants to set me up in a place, give me some money.
I pray for that.
All I'm doing is feeling lousy about it. I don't know what to do. What do I do, Kit?
Go for the bucks.
I don't care about bucks. I might love this guy.
Wow, are you in deep shit. You know he'll break your heart.
So whatta' you going to do in San Francisco?
Get a job and probably go back to school. Figure out what I'm gonna be.
What kind of school?
School, school. Regular. I used to get pretty good grades in school, you know.
So did I. I made it with the principal. Study hard And get a "B." Lift your dress and an "A" you'll see.
Want a pair of boots?
Do I!? Momma!
You sure you won't come with me?
And leave all this? Not in a million.
Couple a hours.
Yeah. Well... I gotta split. Goodbye's make me crazy.
Cool your jets a second. Here's some money.
No. You took care of rent, that's enough.
I want to. For food, got it? Eat something before the wind blows you away.
I'm gonna pay you back next time I see ya, babe. Just wait, I'm gonna do something real nice for you some day.
What's up, where you going?
Give me your car keys, will you, I'm going back to my hotel.
At least stay for a drink. This party's for you.
Apologize to Elizabeth for me.
Listen, there're some major local talent inside just dying to meet you...
Really? Some high class gold digger who speaks French better than I do? No, thank you. I just got off the phone with one.
Cynthia's not coming?
No.
Love this car! Is it new?
Yes! And you don't even know where you're going!
I want to.
Edward, if the three of us sit down together we might as well announce our plans in the Wall Street Journal.
I'll see him alone. Everyone knows you're my muscle. We'll make it social. Tell Kross I'll meet him for dinner. Tonight if you can arrange it.
You shouldn't go alone. He might claim that you tried to black mail him.
Bill, we're businessmen, not the damn mafia. I'll see you in the office. By the way, about your car...
Oh, god, what?
I'll bring it back.
Edward, did you hear me?
I'm here.
I know a lot of nice girls.
What!?
We don't have the time to bring someone new up to speed. Besides... You've already impressed everyone you need to, haven't you?
What time's diner tonight?
Eight o'clock. Kross is bringing his son. Very bright kid, watch yourself with him. Who's this girl you're taking?
No one you know.
Goddamit! Where is he getting the money to fight?
Someone's loaning it to him. Get on it right away.
Our contract guys are working on the Kross pension funds. There's another forty million there. We can bleed'm dry.
Put the pension funds on hold until I say otherwise.
We're letting them slide?
I want the treatment plant licenses to be top priority right now.
But, Edward...
Do it.
Excuse me for saying this but what is wrong with you this week? First, you go soft on the pension funds. Now, you're giving him the chance to get away? As of two minutes ago, you are committed to the tune of over fifty million dollars 
Come on, Bill, don't talk to me about how much money's involved. It's my money.
And some of it's mine. Edward, his jugular's exposed.
Bill, I'd like you to meet Vivian.
Bill Stuckey, Vivian. My wife, Elizabeth.
Fill me in on this. How'd you and Vivian meet?
We just did.
Come on, you can tell me. I sure would like to know where a guy runs into a girl as attractive as this.
The night I left your house, I was lost. I was looking for directions.
And you just happened to run into her. Great. What's she do? She work?
Yes...
Doing what?
Vivian's in sales.
Sales, really? That's great. What does she sell?
Why do you want to know?
Hear me out. I've known you a long time. I see a difference in you this week. Like that tie. I'm suddenly wondering if this girl's not the difference. Especially when I see her talking with David Kross.
She met him at dinner last night... I like this tie.
So now they're best friends? Edward, this girl appears out of nowhere and now I see her talking to a guy whose company we're trying to buy. It's too convenient.
You're being ridiculous.
Industrial espionage is not ridiculous. Edward, how do you know she hasn't attached herself to you so she can bring Kross back information?
Christ, Bill, she's not a spy, she's a hooker. I picked her up off Hollywood Boulevard.
This is no time to disappear. We're in too far.
Bill? Stop panicking. Kross isn't going anywhere and I don't need to spend the rest of the day watching his stock go down. I'll be in the office tomorrow.
Promise me you'll read those contracts by then.
Goodbye, Bill.
Did I wake you?
I'm up.
I had to call. I jus got off the phone with James Kross. Get this. He wants to see you. Today.
Why?
He wouldn't say. Edward... I think we got him. His nuts are on the block and <u>we got him</u>. You there?
Give me twenty minutes.
We'll be there. Listen, if he's really caving in, we'll go from there down to the office. I want him to commit his stock to us this morning.
I don't think there's any sense in 
Let him answer.
Oh, my god... Edward, no!
I suppose you'd use them as collateral on new loans, wouldn't you?
Have you lost your mind?
What!?
Have a good day, gentlemen.
You broke my nose.
I think I broke my hand. You're fired.
Edward, we've been together ten years.
And I don't like what we've become. I'll cover any losses you have on this one. Now get out, you asshole!
All this because of that whore!
Yes.
Barnard Thomas, manager of the hotel.
Of course, yes. If you'll excuse me just a moment 
I have a message for you from your "niece", sir.
My what?
The young lady staying in your room?
Mr. Harris, a guest of yours, is a guest of ours and shall be treated accordingly. The young lady asked me to tell you that she is waiting for you in the lounge.
Thank you.
Good afternoon, Mr. Harris.
Afternoon.
Hey Sugar, you lookin' for a date?
What's that?
You looking' for some company?
Uh, no. How do I get to Beverly Hills?
What? You gonna tell me you're lost?
Yes.
Great. What do I look like a tourguide?
No, you look like a hooker.
Actually, I'm a movie star out for a walk.
Good. Can you tell me how to get to Beverly Hills?
Sure. For five bucks.
That's ridiculous.
The price just went up to ten.
Why don't you just do it out of the kindness of your heart?
Sit... and spin.
Sitandspin. Alright... why not?
Nice car. Yours?
No.
Stolen?
Not exactly.
Mind if I turn on some heat?
If you can figure it out, be my guest.
Very good. You're obviously mechanical.
You're not from L.A., huh?
New York.
What motel you staying at?
<u>Ho</u>tel.
Okay, what <u>ho</u>tel?
Regent Beverly Wilshire. I bet you know it.
Yeah, I peed in the fountain there once. Give me a break.
What's your name?
What do you want it to be? Vivian, my name's Vivian.
You like being a hooker, Vivian?
It pays.
So do day jobs.
Day jobs, yeah. I've tried them. Turn right.
Must be dangerous. Hooking.
Tell me about it. L.A. is suffering from a wacko epidemic. And who knows where half the guys I pick up have been. I mean, I use condoms. Always. And I get checked out once a month at the free clinic. Not only am I better in the sack than an amateur, I'm probably safer.
Very good. You ought to have that printed up on your business card.
If you're making fun of me, I don't like it.
Sorry. If I did, I didn't mean to.
Ugly habit, biting your nails.
You don't know habits, you think this is ugly.
What do you charge for company, Vivian?
Company would cost you... a hundred dollars.
For the whole night?
For an hour.
You're joking.
I never joke about money.
Neither do I. A hundred bucks an hour though. That's pretty stiff.
No, but it's getting there.
Vivian, how much to put up with me for the entire night?
You couldn't afford it.
Three hundred.
Fine.
What's your name, lover.
Edward. My name is Edward.
Edward... you got it!
Get in. This side.
What?
You know how to drive a stick?
Better believe it.
Then let's go. It's worth 300 just so I don't have to drive.
My raincoat's in the back. Put it on.
Why?
You may feel more comfortable. This is not the kind of place that rents rooms by the hour.
You mean they don't have hookers.
Every place has hookers, but if this hotel has hookers, they don't look like they're...
Off the boulevard.
Exactly.
Room service. What do you drink?
Diet coke.
Send up a bottle of Crystal champagne.
Can I have some chips?
 and a bowl of strawberries. Thank you.
Want to know something? I don't quite know. I hadn't planned this.
Do you plan everything?
Always.
Well, the meter's running, it's your money. Speaking of which, cash'll do. In advance.
Fair enough.
Let's talk some more first.
Right. So! In town on business?
Uhhuh.
Let me guess, you're a... lawyer.
And why do you say that?
I dunno... you have that sharp, useless look.
Sounds like you've known a lot of lawyers.
I've known a lot of everybody.
I think he wanted you to tip him.
Tsk. Excuse me, I didn't think he had change for a hundred.
Where are they? Shopping together?
They should be. They're both good at it.
It's a very good year.
Oooh, thank god.
Try a strawberry.
Why?
Because they bring out the flavor of the champagne.
Jesus, you act like you're seducing some Valley girl you picked up in a dance club.
Vivian... the meter's running... cooperate.
You really are a very beautiful girl.
Just a romantic, that's you.
Yes...
What do you like?
If I want you to turn me on I'll pay <u>you</u> three hundred. Just lay back and let me drive.
Good morning.
You didn't wake me. I'll be out of here in a minute.
No hurry. Would you like some breakfast?
Did you sleep well?
Yeah. Too good. I forgot where I was.
Occupational hazard?
Where'd you go?
I took the couch. I had some work to do. About last night...
Oooh, Baby, you were the best. I was beside myself.
Mmm, I could tell.
I just hope it was worth three hundred bucks.
I'd say you give a good dollar value.
Do you ever... enjoy it?
I like guys if that's what you're asking. Not that I trust'm.
No? Why's that?
"Occupational hazard".
I buy companies.
No shit. They expensive?
The one I'm buying this week will cost around 150 million.
... dollars?
So what a ya do with the companies once you buy'm?
I sell them.
What? Why?
By breaking up a company's assets 
What are assets?
Vivian 
C'mon, I might buy a company some day.
Assets are anything of value a company owns. Sometimes the pieces are worth more than the whole. By selling them off, I make a profit.
Sorta like stealing cars and selling'm for parts, huh?
Not... quite.
There, see? Now the emblem is right in the middle of the knot.
Where'd you learn to do this?
I fucked the debate team in high school. Tsk. I had a grampa. He liked ties on Sundays. You mind if I take a swim in your bathtub before I hit it?
Don't drown.
All right. How much for the week?
What?
I'm in town until Saturday.
It'd cost you.
Of course. How much?
Five full nights... days too?
Four thousand.
Vivian, may I point out five more nights at three hundred a night is only 1,500.
But you want days too.
All right, two thousand.
Three.
Done.
Holy shit.
I'm not just talking about sex.
Look butthead, I'll treat you so nice you'll never want to let me go, okay?
Three thousand for five days. And Vivian, I will let you go.
Never answer the phone. Ever.
Tsk, believe me, this will be the last time.
Did you buy some clothes?
I got a dress, yeah.
Just one? Christ... I hope it's appropriate.
It's very tasteful. I think you'll especially like the zipper in the crotch. I'm  joking.
Let's hope so. You'll get some more clothes tomorrow. I'll be pushed for time so meet me in the hotel lobby at seven fortyfive sharp. Got it?
No, I don't "got it". Even the farmboys back in Georgia come to the door when they're taking you on a date.
This isn't a date.
Go by yourself then. Where you taking me anyway?
The Rex.
Any good?
I think you'll approve.
... all right. I'll meet you in the lobby. But only cause you're paying me to.
Thank you <u>very much</u>.
Hello?
I thought I told you not to answer the phone.
Oooh!
I'm sorry.
You're forgiven.
And that's the way the game is played.
Some game. Screwin' some poor slob out of his retirement.
You're upset, huh?
Upset. No. I never get upset about business.
You liked the guy, though.
Whether I liked him or not is irrelevant. It's business. There's no emotion involved in business... if you want to survive.
We're the exactly the same! Kit keeps telling me don't get emotional when you turn tricks  that's why no kissing  it's too personal. The key is like you're saying, stay numb, don't get involved  when I'm with a guy, I'm a robot, I just do it. Except with you. At your price I give my all...
Know what we're gonna do in a little while then? We're gonna call Domino's and have'm deliver a bigass pizza. We're gonna eat it in bed. We're gonna veg' out and watch television.
Television?
Yeah, it's this box, it has pictures, sound. You don't have to use your brain at all.
I have work to do.
Uhuh. No work.
I still don't understand why you only bought one dress.
I wasn't as much fun as I thought it was going to be.
Why not?
Well, you know those cold bitches that work in those stores and try to intimidate you? It works.
Was someone rude to you?
I had a little problem in one store. I wasn't dressed right. I don't know what to say. I don't belong there. Maybe I'll just go back to Bridget. She was cool.
Vivian, you belong wherever you are. I don't care how you were dressed, they were the ones who were wrong, not you.
Okay.
Good.
Come with me?
I thought maybe you'd like dinner.
Thank you. I would. Nice.
Wait till you see what I have on underneath.
Please.
What about dinner?
Dinner can wait.
You always been rich?
No.
Seems like it. I guess it's easy to get used to, huh?
Easier than learning how to be poor. My father's family was wealthy. When I was young there were cars and houses, private schools, nannies. But then my father divorced my mother to marry another woman. And he took his money with him.
Keep talkin'. I like hearin'.
Not much to tell. I went to public school. Went to university on scholarship. Went to work for an investment firm. In eight years I owned it. My father was chairman of the board of the third company I ever went after. I swallowed that company and shit out the pieces. One of the pieces was him.
You still mad at'm?
He died a long time ago.
You're really pushing it, bringing me here.
I think it's exciting.
What id we run into someone I know?
I really doubt anyone here frequents Hollywood Boulevard.
You did.
Real genuine guy.
He's good at what he does.
You could freeze ice on his wife's ass. She anything like your ex?
Shall we mingle?
Edward, these women here, I don't think any of'm like the guys they're with. They're just into it for the money.
I'm sure that's true for some of them.
I thought I was the pro. These women make me feel like an amateur.
Ready to stomp sod?
You asshole! I can't believe what a !
Vivian, what the 
Clean the slut up, take her out, huh?! What are you trying to prove!? I'm not a piece of meat for you to offer to your friends!
I don't know what you're talking about.
I've been with stinking old men who've made me want to puke but I've never had anyone make me feel as dirty as you did tonight.
Would you please calm down. Tell me what happened.
Stuckey! He wants an "appointment" with me after you leave. You my pimp now or did he think that up on his own?
What was I supposed to do? I told the truth. Why should the truth upset you? It's not as if you're from a convent.
I want my fucking money. I'm getting out of here. I don't want anything more to do with you.
Can we talk about this? Can you just try to calm down?
Your goddamned friend, he thinks the only reason I'm with you is for the money.
Well, it's true. Just pay me what you owe me and I'm gone.
Vivian...
Pay me! Before I pick up this chair and smash your face in.
Fine. I'm only here a couple of more days and I'm not going to spend them fighting with you.
Fuck off.
I'll call you a cab. If you want the clothes, pack them up.
Vivian... I'm sorry. I wasn't prepared for questions about us. It was an idiotic and insensitive thing I did. I should have known that it would hurt you.
I'm not hurt. It doesn't hurt you when somebody pisses on you, it just pissed you off.
I really am sorry.
Do I look okay?
Hmm... let's see... no, there's something missing.
What's that?
I don't want you to get too excited... these are on loan... however...
Edward, I can't.
Shush. Of course you can.
What if I lose it?
You won't.
What if someone tries to steal it?
I'll guard them and you with my life.
You don't want to go all the way to San Francisco in a limousine, do you? I don't.
Where are you taking me!?
To meet some friends. Rudolpho, a poet... Benoit, a landlord... Mimi, a flower maker...
Huh?
The opera.
I've never been on a plane before.
I'm glad you like it. Now be quiet, I've really got to read these.
Sorry. You're not paying me to ask you question like that.
Vivian. I'm paying you to be you. Be you. Have you? Ever been in love with anyone?
You mean, besides Elvis? I'm a human being. Sure. Once. First time I ever ran away from home, I got as far as Atlanta. I met this boy. He'd been with his parents on their way to Chicago. They stopped at a gas station. He went to the john. When he came back they'd split. We sorta started looking out for each other. Aw, he was sweet. And boy, was he good looking, y'know, dark hair and eyes. The chicken hawks were on him all the time. He hated that. Sometimes we'd find a safe place to crash nights and we'd curl up together and we'd talk about all these crazy things. The two of us getting married someday. Having kids. Stupid stuff.
What happened to him?
If it's in Italian, how will I know what they're saying?
I'll whisper some of the main parts of the story to you. But you'll be surprised how much you understand. The music conveys the story more powerfully than any words.
But don't they have it in English?
Vivian, don't be afraid of what you don't know. That's the fun of it.
If you'd gone on about how much you liked it, I'm not sure I'd have believed you.
I more than liked it.
I know. I'm glad.
Did you?
Yes. I've never enjoyed it more. Thank you.
One more night and you're finally rid of me.
Yeah, you've been pretty tough to take.
I have to go to New York tomorrow.
What else? You gonna leave some cash by the bed when you pass through town?
It wouldn't be like that. I want to get you off the street. You'll have a different kind of life. What's wrong with that?
I'm sorry. That's very sweet, Edward, and I know you mean it...
Vivian, I've thought about this a lot. This is the best solution.
When I was a little girl, my mother locked me in the attic when I was bad, which was pretty often. I'd stare out the window up there and make believe I was a princess trapped in the tower by the wicked queen. Then suddenly a knight on a white horse with his bright colors flying would ride up. Rescue me from the tower, and then we'd ride off... but never, ever in all the times I had that dream did the knight say, "Come on baby, I'll put you up in a great condo."
Vivian, life's not a fairy tale.
I know. Hey, don't mind me. I'm being stupid. I'll think about it, okay? It's a real good offer for a whore.
I've never treated you like a whore.
You just did.
What did you do to him?
What do you mean?
Last time I saw him he was this strong guy. Now he's beaten. And you <u>liked him</u>.
Vivian, I want you to listen to me. The man realized that it would be better for his future and his son's future, if he cooperated.
Right.
It's not your concern. It's... business, that's all.
Business.
Yes. The man made a business decision.
It's all just business to you. Him. Me. Your life. Everything's business.
It's what I do for a living. It's how I make money.
Why do guys always know how to hit a woman? Right across the cheek, wham, so it feels like your eye is gonna explode. What do they do, take you all aside in high school and show you how? It pisses me off!
Not all men hit. And no one is going to hit you anymore.
Right. You're quite the Sir Galahad today, aren't ya'? I heard what you did with Kross.
It was a business decision.
I got tired of hating my father.
It was good.
It felt good.
You're packing.
I'm leaving. Don't ya see? If I stay with you like you want me to, there'll always be some guy, your friends eve, treatin' me like that... thinkin' they're allowed to. What are you gonna do, fight'm all? No. I'll take my money now, please.
Aw, don't... no...
Stay with me tonight. Not because you're being paid to. Stay with me because you want to.
I do. I do want to. That's why I'm leaving. That's what you given me, see? I know what I want now. I want a guy like you for real. Not because you buy me things and give me money. The nicest thing you ever done for me is hold my hand. You gonna give me that?
I didn't think so.
Vivian...
It's not your fault. You're right. Kit's right. But I want the fairy tale.
What would it take to buy our stock back? Name your price.
To get me in a mood to sell  double what I paid. But your company doesn't have enough capital right now to buy anything.
Mr. Kross, I'm not here to sell you my stock. On the contrary, I'm here to buy yours.
You've got a lot of nerve.
No. What I have is a lot of money.
I know all about you, Mr. Harris. When you buy companies, they have a way of disappearing. Even the pension funds are stripped clean. The last three companies you took over were cut up in so many pieces, widows were left without their retirement checks.
What I did with those companies was perfectly legal.
I don't question the legality of what you do. It's your morality that makes me sick. I will not allow my company to be raped by a man like you.
It is <u>not</u> your company. It's a public company. And I <u>am</u> going to acquire it. Either I buy from the other stock holders, or I buy from you.
Mr. Harris.
How are you, Mr. Kross.
Not bad for a man who hasn't slept in four nights. I'll get used to it.
Yes. I'm here to tell you that I've reconsidered my position on your acquisition offer.
<u>Expected</u>... offer.
Of course, yes. After the <u>expected</u> filing period is over, I'm going to recommend to the board that we accept your bid.
You're making the right decision, sir.
Stop. For just a moment. Mr. Kross, I'd like to ask you a few questions <u>before</u> you sign. You realize that you're a target. If you weren't mine, you'd be someone elses, correct?
Yes.
If you had a... reprieve, what would do?
I... I would take advantage of it.
How?
I... I don't know. There... there wasn't time...
I suppose you'd find out soon enough that you have assets you presently don't seem aware of, wouldn't you? The waste processing licenses at that abandoned shipyard of yours, you'd certainly find out about that.
Quiet. Would I get the loans?
This time I imagine you would, yes. Hmm... With all this in mind, Mr. Kross, I can't logically make a formal bid on your company, can I?
You'd be initiating a financial battle you'd ultimately lose, Mr. Harris.
You're very right. I think the best thing we could all do is go home.
What's that long building over there?
Storage, I think.
Not with those smokestacks it's not.
The real estate possibilities are endless. Most of the yard we'll just level. I talked to a couple of developers, under the table, of course, and they said 
You what?
I talked to some developers about the land.
Congratulations, sir.
What?
Mr. Kross is just getting off the phone with his stock broker. It's finished. You've won.
Who are you going after next, sir?
Who indeed...
I like your hat.
Huh? Oh... yeah. S'okay? Uhm... how're... business things going.
Let's not talk about it, it's too depressing. Come on, I'll show you Thunder.
Please, we hardly know each other.
Thunder's a horse. Come on.
Hey, big guy, you getting tired, yet? I am. This is Vivian. You two been together long? You and Edward?
No.
Hope to be?
It's... it's not like that.
I see. Well. Maybe that means you'd have lunch with me sometime then.
You don't know anything about me.
I'd like to find out. You don't know anything about me either. That's why people have lunch.
Mr. Harris, we know you've purchased at least twenty percent of our stock. We also know you plan to file a formal bid for a majority share.
Twentyfive percent.
We're on the verge of closing a large navy contract. Double is ridiculous but we can assure you a healthy profit on your shares. We would give you a promissory note...
You're not getting any navy contracts.
There's no way you could know that.
But I do know. I also know your lines of credit are overextended. If I don't buy your company, someone else will... Ah, the escargot.
We can reach an understanding on this.
I don't think so. You should know we're going to fight you with every resource we have.
Do what you have to do. I don't take it personally.
I do. I take it all very personally. Very nice meeting you, Vivian.
Georgia.
No wonder. For starts, you should know that hot pants are <u>horrid</u>, even when you do have the legs to carry them off. What are your plans while you're in town?
Well... I might be going out to dinner.
You'll want a cocktail dress then. Turn. You have a beautiful figure. A little too out in the open but simply lovely. Size six? Do you need shoes?
I dunno. Do thigh high, leather boots go with a cocktail dress?
Philip! We'll need shoes!
Your uncle will like this.
He's not really my uncle.
They never are, dear.
Took 'em out with a heat seeker.
There's something else, Major...
Mmmnnn...?
I don't think that was any ordinary army taxi...
What's he got?
Same business, guerrillas hauling two guys from the chopper... followed by men with American equipment...
Major, you'd better take a look at this.
Hawkins?
I can't tell.
What in God's name...?
I think it's Hawkins.
Where the hell is his body?
There's no sign of it.
How could anyone get through this, carry Blain out, right under our noses without leavin' a trace?
He knows our defenses.
Why didn't he try to kill one of us last night?
You're looking well, Dutch.
It's been a long time, General.
That's over the border, General.
That's the problem. Apparently they strayed off course. We're certain they've been captured by the guerrillas.
What have you got in mind, General.
We figure we've got less than twentyfour hours to catch up with them. After that, there's not much hope. We want a rescue operation mounted tonight. That doesn't give you much time.
You lift off in three hours. There's one other thing.
What's that, General?
Someone else will be going in with you.
Any sign of the hostages?
We found 'em both, dead. And the gear from the chopper. If they're Central American, I'm a fuckin' Chinaman. By the looks of 'em, I'd say our cabinet minister and his aide are CIA. Another thing, Major, we were lucky... couple of those guys we waxed are Russians, military advisors by the look of it. Something big was about to happen here.
What's got Billy so spooked?
Can't say, Major... been squirrely all mornin'... fuckin' weird... sometimes I think that nose of his is too good... smells things that ain't there.
You saw what?
I saw it.
Put him in his poncho and liner and carry him back. We'll bury him in the morning.
I'll take him.
We've got most of the flares, frags. and two claymores just outside. Nothin's comin' close to here without trippin' on somethin'.
Thank you, Sergeant.
I'm sorry, Bull. It's never easy. He was a good soldier.
The best friend I ever had.
Thanks.
Anytime.
Don't know, only saw one of 'em. Camouflaged. He was there... ... Those fucking eyes...
What, Sergeant?
Those eyes... disappeared. But I know one thing, Major... ... I drew down and fired right at it. Cappedoff two hundred rounds and then the Minigun; the full pack. Nothin'... nothin' on this earth could have lived... not at that range.
Take a position over there. I'll work around towards you. When I flush him, you nail him...
... Right, I got a score to settle for the Bro...
We both got scores to settle.
You've been pushing too many Pencils, Dillon. Had enough?
No way, old buddy.
You never did know when to quit.
That piece of work you guys pulled off at the Berlin embassy last week was really something. Blew the entry points on three floors and neutralized the opposition in eight seconds flat. Beautiful.
Like the old days, Dillon.
Also heard that you passed on that little job in Libya.
Wasn't my style. We're a rescue unit, not assassins. This must be good. Big shot from the CIA, leaves his desk to come back to the bush. What's so important?
Those cabinet members are very important to our scope of operations in this part of the world. They're about to get squeezed. We can't let that happen. I needed someone who could get the job done, quick and quiet... no screwups. I needed the best. The best. So, I pulled a few strings at the State Department... and here we are.
Go on.
Our rendezvous points and radio freqs. are indicated and fixed. AWACS contact on four hour intervals.
Who's our backup on this?
No such thing, old buddy. It's a one way ticket. Once we cross that border, we're on our own.
This gets better by the minute.
You don't know how much I missed this, Dutch!!! Once you get this in your blood, you never get it out!!!
You never were all that smart... let's go!!!
Billy's on it. Heat seeker. Pretty sophisticated for halfasses mountain boys.
They're getting better equipped every day.
Mean anything to you?
Probably another rebel patrol. They operate in here all the time.
I knew this man. Green Berets, out of Fort Bragg. What the hell were they doing in here? You got any answers for this, Dillon?
Jesus... this is inhuman. Uh... I wasn't told of any operations in this area. They shouldn't have been here.
Well somebody sent them.
It was all bullshit. All of it. From the start... you set us up, got us in here to do your dirty work.
That's right, I set you up. You're a veteran at this, Dutch, I had to.
Why us?
Because I told you, you're the best. I knew you could do it but I couldn't get you in here without a cover story.
What story did you give to Davis?
We've been lookin' for this place for months. The chopper must have gotten close when they got shot down. Hopper was sent in to get my men. He was just doing his job. When he disappeared I had to clean this up, I had to stop there bastards. We were so close, we couldn't quit. We couldn't sleep through this one. I needed you, Dutch, can't you see that?
She's too valuable. She's got to know their whole network. The whole set up. We take her with us.
We take her and she'll give away our position, every chance she gets. No prisoners, Dillon.
Blain... ... Just like the others... no powder burns, no shrapnel.
The wound all fused, cauterized... what the hell did this?
We're still too far in, they won't risk coming in for us.
Expendable assets, Dillon. Seems Langley is never around when you need them.
I can accept that, it comes with the job.
Bullshit. You're just like the rest of us.
You're wastin' your time.
No more games.
What the hell do you think you're doing?
We're going to need everyone.
What are you talking about? We'll be out of here in ten minutes.
We're not going.
That rendezvous is ten maybe twelve miles, at most! We're almost home. But the chopper won't wait.
He'll be looking for the trip wires. If we're lucky, he won't see this.
Now what, Dutch. You going to send your mystery guest an invitation?
No way, Dutch. I'm going. You get these people and get the hell out of here.
This isn't your style, Dillon.
Guess I've picked up some bad habits from you, Dutch. Now don't argue with me, you know I'm right. Get to that chopper and hold it for us. We'll be along.
You know you can't win this one.
I'll see you there.
Right behind you.
Major, looks like there were ten, maybe twelve guerrillas. Looks like they took some prisoners from the chopper. Then a different set of track, over there.
What do you mean?
Six others, U.S. issue jungle boots. They came in from the north, then followed the guerrillas.
Strange, Major. There was a firefight. Shooting in all directions.
I can't believe Jim Hopper walked into an ambush.
I don't believe he did, Sir. I couldn't find a single track. Just doesn't make sense.
What about the rest of Hopper's men?
Billy... What the hell's wrong with you?
Something... in the trees...
Well, I saw you and
Yeah, you saw me and you figured that if a mere girl can do it, a big strong stud like you shouldn't have any problem. Right?! Well you figured wrong, dork!
Hey! Uh, how do I get back in?
Carefully, tough guy. Very carefully.
My name's Johnny Utah!
Who cares!
I'm telling you so when you look back on this moment, you can think... there was this guy named Utah and he was pretty much a dork but maybe not such a bad person and I let him drown in conditions he had no business being in whatsoever... when I could have easily helped him.
Bye.
Wait! Jesus Christ! You're fucking crazy, you know that? You go in there you're gonna eat it on the rocks. Here, follow me.
What do you want?
Shrimp and fries.
I mean, what do you want? What are you doing hanging around here.
I need you to teach me.
Gimme a break. One shrimp and fries to go! Anything to drink?
I'm serious.
I can see that. But forget it. Stick to tennis, or whatever you're good at. Miniature golf. Here, your number's 37.
Well, I'm just gonna go back out there till I catch on to it or break my neck.
What is it? You all of a sudden got this bug you had to go surfing? This is a line, right?
No, no. See, all my life I've done things for other people. In high school I played football because my old man expected me to. Then my parents always figured I'd go to law school, so I did. Football scholarship. Graduated Phi Beta Kappa
This gonna take long?
Wait, so I'm a big hero to my folks, right? But two years ago they got killed in a car wreck and I just suddenly realized all my goals had been their goals. And I hadn't been living my own life. So I wanted something for myself. Something that maybe didn't make any sense. You know what I mean?
I came out here from Ohio a month ago. Never saw the ocean before. I didn't think it would effect me so much. Like I'm drawn to it, or something. I want to do what you do. It's the truth.
Tomorrow, 6 AM. Here. If you're a minute late I'm gone. And Stud... I didn't take you to raise. I can show you a few things but after that you're on your own. That'll be four fifty.
Stop here. Do you agree to do exactly what I say when I say it?
Sure.
Nice place.
He rents it for the summer. Bodhi always gets some slick place and throws it open to every surf burnout around. Most a these guys can't keep a job. When the swell comes, they're gone, they have to ride.
Who's the girl?
Catch of the day.
Oh, oh. That sounds personal.
People are expendable to Bodhi.
Meaning you were expendable.
We went out for about five minutes... which is four minutes longer than most of them. But you can't hold it against him, he's... different.
Sure, he's "the Bodhisattva".
Yeah, he thinks he's evolved to a higher plane of existence, or something. Maybe he has. You've seen him surf... that frenzy. It seems like anger. It's not. It's the energy of lovemaking. The sea is the woman in his life. She's his only true lover.
Bunch of goddamn adrenaline junkies. I hope you're not buying into this banzaibullshit like the rest of Bodhi's moonies.
What are you talking about?
I've seen that kamikaze look, Johnny. You've got it. And Bodhi can smell it a mile away. He'll take you to the edge... and past it. Hey, Bodhi.
What's goin' on?
Swell's here, Johnny. Bodhi always knows.
I can barely do this in broad daylight.
Come on. At least no one's gonna see how bad you are.
You had enough?
Yeah. I just want to sit out here for a minute.
Look at you.
What?
Well, usually you have this sort of intense scowl of concentration, like you're doing this for a school project or something... I don't know, like something's driving you. See, it's gone. If I didn't know better I'd say you looked almost happy.
I... I don't know. I can't describe what I'm feeling.
You don't have to.
Those are cold.
Warm them up.
I... I gotta go.
Johnny... what's going on? I don't get it... did I do something?
No. I'm sorry. I have to go. I'll, uh... I'll call you later. I'm sorry.
Ouch.
Betadyne doesn't hurt.
You're kneeling on my hand.
So what'd the other guy look like?
Never saw him, was your basic hit and run.
But you look like you been in a train wreck, how'd he just drive away?
Jesus Christ, Johnny  you've been using me! Your jacket's on the floor in the bathroom  this goddamn thing's half out of the pocket... Oh God, it's all part of some case, isn't it?
Tyler, put the gun down.
You tell me the fucking truth Johnny... did your parents really die in a car crash? DID THEY?!
I work bank robbery. Guys I'm after are surfers. I needed you, at first, but not
Fuck you, Johnny Utah. Fuck you!! Don't you have a soul? Goddamn you to hell!
Added to which indignity, I got three months left to retirement and they saddle me with some blueflamer fresh out of Quantico for a partner. Some quarterback punk, Johnny Unitas or something.
The shit they pull, huh?
Pappas. Angelo Pappas.
Punk. Quarterback Punk.
Welcome to Sea World, kid.
Good move.
Yeah, they control the room well. Stick strictly to the cash drawers.
They don't go for the vault?
Never go for the vault. They never get greedy.
Smart. You burn time in the vault.
Reagan usually drives. Stolen switch car, they leave it running at the curb, looks parked from a distance. When they run, they dump the vehicle and vanish. And I mean vanish.
Surgical. Look at them separate the dye packs. Dick and Ronny know their jobs.
The ExPresidents are the best I've seen, kid.
You through, Mr. Wizard? Let me know if you find Jimmy Hoffa under the seat while you're at it. Hell, it's only 7:30. The night's still young... you can solve this case and start on another one.
Well, what're your ideas on these guys?
Forget about it, kid. They're ghosts. Let the goddamn yuppie Mormon affirmative action assholes handle it. See I'm almost 55... so I must be senile, right? They better get me out before I start pissing myself in public. Drooling. It would look bad for the Bureau, right?
So you're gonna coast to retirement, when you could nail these guys and go out with come dignity.
You watch your fucking mouth! Mr. Hoover himself pinned the Seal of Honor right here!
Sorry.
Yeah. That was thirty years ago anyway. L.A.'s changed a lot since then. The air got dirty and the sex got clean. So you want to nail the Ex Presidents? Be a big hero?
Yeah. What's your theory?
The fucking punks are surfers.
Oh well he must be a surfer.
Shutup, you might learn somethin' you're not careful... So last year Nixon scuffs a counter going over. There was a soil sample. Non specific mud traces of asphalt, oils, blah, blah... sand and... carnuba wax. So I became a wax expert. There's 80 some uses for this stuff, something like five hundred products.
Candle wax. Car wax. Mustache wax? Could be anything. Guy's waxing his mustache at the beach. Gets sand in it. Wipes it off with a shoe. Shoe scuffs the counter.
The lab made three possible matches, this was one of 'em.
Sex wax? You're not into kinky shit, are you Angelo?
Surfers use it on their boards. They rub sand into it for traction.
Thanks for the tip. I needed this knowledge.
... Four months. June to October. Mmmm...same the year before.
Another month and we don't see 'em again 'til next summer.
Johnny, it's the only way.
Why can't I just walk around with this thing under my arm and act stoned? Ask a few questions.
They're like some kind of tribe. Got their own language. You can't just walk up to these guys. You've got to get out there. Learn some moves. Get into their head. Pick up the speech.
Angelo, this stuff is for little rubber people who don't shave yet.
It's all balance, right? And coordination. How hard can it be?
I think you gotta hit them straight on!
Got it...
What, you couldn't have just left the thing in your car?
It sticks out, so I can't lock it. Look, Angelo, you think I joined the FBI to learn to surf? This was your lameo idea in the first place. You gotta back me up on this.
Johnny, all I can say is we better come up with something real soon.
Angelo, pay attention. There's gonna be a test afterward. Lab is showing traces of toxins. PCBs. Heavy elements... selenium, titanium and arsenic.
Guy's the Toxic Avenger.
The beaches are always being closed because of waste spills, right? And surfers are territorial. They stick mostly to certain breaks. If we can get some hair samples, and get a match to a certain beach, we'd know which break the ExPresidents surf. You buyin' this?
No. But let's do it, anyway. It's gonna bug the shit out of Harp.
Big zippo so far. How about you?
Patience hotshot. Patience. It'll be subtle, if it's here at all.
No, but there are four guys back there you might check out.
Thanks, buddy.
Look, if you're gonna go leavin' your piece and your shield in the car, you can damn well stay in sight. Okay?
Okay, Dad.
... Felony B and E, three months in juvey. Better. Felony assault. Postgraduate work at Chino. Excellent. I'm lovin' it. What about the brother? Great! Another model citizen. These guys really fit the profile.
Remember, all bank robbers are losers, but not all losers are bank robbers.
When did Harp say they'd have the warrant?
He's pushing it through first thing. You better get some sleep tonight, it could be an interesting morning.
Did that worthless punk partner of mine ever show up?
Right here, partner.
I'm ready to rock, Angelo. Where you want me?
Cole and Munoz are going in the back door. Babbit is backing me. So I want you at the side window by the hedge. You're strictly backup, got it?
Got it.
Awright. Get into position. I'm rolling.
Aw shit.
Nice tattoo, Dietz.
Johnny! Uh, you, uh... should call first, you know? Hey, where the hell were you all day? You gotta at least call in or something. You okay?
Angelo, we gotta talk.
... so I started tailing him.
This Zen master surfer.
Bodhi, yeah. I'm on him all day, right. He goes here, he goes there, he goes to Tower Records and buys come CDs, he has lunch at Patrick's Road House... ... he goes into the Assured Trust Savings and Loan.
Did he rob it?
Cute. He was inside for about 20 minutes. The other guy, Roach, waited in the truck. They were scoping it out, right?!
Yeah, or cashing a check.
Wait, wait. Then these guys go back to their beach house and box up all their shit. Load it in Bodhi's truck and take it to a public storage unit. You see? Summer's almost over. They're splitting. They're gonna pick up a little traveling money tomorrow. The next day at the outside latest. I got a feeling.
Last time you got a feeling I had to kill a man, which I always hate because it looks bad on the report.
Angelo... I'm right this time. We can still win this one.
They're on their way to Maui.
No way. Not yet. Come on.
I say we call it in. Get some backup. But you gotta do it. Harp won't listen to me.
Sure. No problem. I'll just call up and tell him his favorite agent saw this one surfer moon another surfer yesterday and it looked real suspicious. Shit, he'll probably call out the National Guard.
I say we don't call it in. Under no circumstance are we to call this in.
Look, we handle it ourselves, for right now, okay? We cover the bank, whatever. You and me. That way if nothing happens, or more accurately, when nothing happens... I don't get my tits any further into the wringer than they already are.
Time for lunch.
Angelo, it's eleven thirty.
That place up the street has meatball sandwiches. Get me two.
The hell are they?!
They took a left at the next light!
You sure?!
Nothing?
Nothing.
I know where they're going.
Figured you did.
Angelo! Don't fire!
Kid, get outta the way!!
NOOO!!
They found the drop car up on Mulholland. I want you two to go work it.
What? Now I'm working the drop car? Who's handling the scene here?
Cole and Munoz. I'm uh... letting them run with the ball for a while.
Cole and Munoz? I been on this case for two years.
That's the point, isn't it?
Yeah, I get it. Time to play let's dick the old guys, huh, Harp?
Supervising Special Agent, Harp. Now I want you to go work the drop car, okay, Angelo? Okay?
Look, Harp. Don't turn him over to the uniforms like some punk. Let me ride him in.
Yeah, sure. Why not? You two screwups deserve each other. That's why I put you together in the first place. Christ Pappas, you're as bad as he is... talk about the blind leading the blind
Harp, let me tell you something. I was an agent in this bureau when your mommy was still wiping your shinny pink ass, and you know one thing I learned in all those years that you still haven't?
What that?
You know less than nothing. If you even knew that you knew nothing, at least that would be something, but you don't.
Yes, sir.
Eating solid breakfasts, Utah?
Sir?
All the food groups? Avoiding sugar? Caffeine? I see to it that my people maintain cardiovascular fitness. We stay off hard liquor, cigarettes...
I take the skin off chicken.
This is us. Bank Robbery. And you're in the bankrobbery capital of the world
1322 last year in LA county. Up 26 percent from the year before.
That's right. And we nailed over a thousand of them. We did it by crunching data. Good crimescene work, good lab work, good database analysis. Nobody had to tackle a car once. You getting the signal, special agent?
Zero distortion, sir.
You're a real blueflame special, aren't you, Utah? I don't know why they sent you to LA. Must be an asshole shortage.
Not so far.
How was the beach?
Fine.
Surf conditions okay?
A little mushy.
A little mushy! You think the taxpayers would like it, Utah, if they knew they were paying a federal agent to surf and pick up girls?
Babes.
What?
The correct term is babes, sir. Uh, this type of undercover operation is entirely dependent on picking up the idiom of the speech. Otherwise penetration is not possible, sir. Of the social infrastructure, I mean.
Special Agent Utah, this is not some job flippin' burgers at the drivein. Yes, the surfboard bothers me. Yes, your approach to this case bothers me. And yes, you bother me. You two have produced squat in the last two weeks, during which time the Ex Presidents have robbed two more banks!! Do you have anything even remotely interesting to tell me?
Caught my first tube this morning.
Three men dead. One of them a cop. How's that sit in your gut, Utah?
Take your hand off my shoulder right now.
Yeah? What?
Have you seen a little dog? Kind of a cockapoo lookin' thing. About this big.
No.
You sure he isn't out back? You mind if I go take a look?
Look, I don't know anything about your dog, okay
Well is there anyone else here that might have seen him?
There's nobody else here...
Something happened. You got nuked in the last quarter.
Yeah, my knee got folded about 90 degrees the wrong way.
And that's why you never went pro?
Two years of surgery. I missed my window. Limped through law school instead.
Mmm. A lawyer, huh? Too bad. But at least you're surfing now. So your life's not over yet, right?
Not yet.
Friends of yours, huh?
The one you decked is Bunker Wiess. The big one is his brother, Warchild. The other two always hang. They think they're some kinda death squad around here.
What's their program?
They're punks. Nazis. Their brains are wired wrong. They hurt surfing because they give nothing back, and they have no respect for the sea. They just want to get radical. It's mindless aggression. They'll never get it, the spiritual side of it.
You always talk like this? You're not gonna start chanting or anything are you?
No. So I was up the beach. I saw it going down. you didn't hesitate... they never backed you up an inch. That's rare in this world.
Thanks for stepping in.
De nada.
Gonna be some people at my house tonight. Maybe you can make it.
Where?
Come with Tyler. She knows.
Don't you gamble?
Only make bets I can't afford to lose. Only way to be 100% committed.
So what's the biggest? Waimea?
No, Bells Beach, Australia.
I gotta be fucking crazy.
Yeah, but are you crazy enough?
Football's a manmade game. You keep score with numbers. But in this, there's no field, no rules, no opponent. Just you and the wave.
I know that part. Tell me something I can use, here.
I've watched you once or twice. You surf like it's some kind of street fight. You jerk along from moment to moment, fighting everything that comes at you. Always trying to win.
A flaw I'm working on.
The only way to win out here is to surrender. You have to feel what the wave is doing, accept its energy, get in sync. Just feel it all moving in the blackness... you don't need to see.
Yeah, right, vision is highly over rated.
How you figure?
News, last night... those guys, the ExPresidents... they robbed my bank yesterday. And I was just there the day before, cashing a check. See... look. Assured Trust... same place.
One shot stopping.
'One shot stopping'... good, very good. I like you, Johnny. I like you because you'll sacrifice anything to win. I respect that. It elevates you a little above the drones who have learned compromise. Here, hold it. Check out the weight.
Ever done this before?
Once.
Pure adrenalin, right?! The ultimate rush. Other guys snort for it, jab a vein for it  all you gotta do is jump.
Sure, it's a blast, but listen, I sorta screwed up my knee yesterday
Yeah, I noticed you limping. But don't worry about it, brah. Don't worry at all. We're not gonna land on land!
It's a little ceremony we always have at the end of summer. One last speedstar.
So, who... uh, who packed my chute?
I did. What's the matter? Don't trust me?
You gotta earn trust.
Then we'll earn it together. Here, take mine.
We gonna jump or jerk off?
My man!
Utah, you copy bruddah?
Whoooaaah! Shhiiittt! Whoooaaah!
I'll take that as a yes.
You gonna pull?
After you, Alfonse. I insist!
Don't screw around man, pull it!
You do it... you first!
One thousand feet. Pull the goddamn cord!
You first!
Okay!
What's this?
Insurance policy. Now this is going to sting a bit, but it's for your own growth, brah. Press play.
You're a fucking dead man
Whoa, whoa!! Think it through! I'm the only one knows where they are. Just let me talk for a second.
Talk.
She'll be fine, Rosie won't do anything. At least not as long as I meet him at a certain place and time, about... let's see... ... six hours from now.
You call him... right now... and tell him to let her go.
Sorry, can't do it, brah. He's on the road. And where they're going there's no phones. Damn, I hate this Johnny, I really do. I hate violence. See, that's why I need Rosie. I could never make this thing work, myself. No way I could hold a knife to Tyler's throat, man! She was my woman, once. We shared time in this world. But Rosie, he's kind of a... mechanism. Once you set him in motion, he won't stop. That's his gift, a kind of... blankness. Noon comes, straight up, he'll gut her like a pig and try not to get any on his shoes. Nothing I can do, unless I get there.
We're wasting time.
See! That's what I like about you, man! You're just sharp as a razor blade.
I can't do this.
Sure you can! You may even like it... it's a killer rush. You'll see. Hey, don't I show you things, Johnny U?
Bodhi, this is your wake up call, man  I... am... an... Eff... Bee... Eye... Agent!!
Wild, ain't it?! See, we exist on a higher plane, you and I. We make our own rules. Why be a servant of the law Johnny U... when you can be it's master?
I'm not armed.
But you're not alone.
Good guess. There's a gun on you right now.
Where's Roach?
Around somewhere. Listen, I'm in kind of a hurry, Johnny U. What can I do for you?
You gotta tell me where she is.
And let my policy expire? Sorry.
Look, Bodhi man. People are dead. The ride is over.
I say when it's over!
The guy you killed was an off duty cop! If you get out of here they'll nail you wherever you land. They have a new thing called radar. Maybe you've heard of it.
Why should I?
What if your chute fails, Bodhi? Rescind the order. Let her off the hook, she's served her purpose. Do it, man, you owe me that much. Let me hear it before you check out.
Pretty radical, Johnny. Even for you. Why don't you pull it?
No games, Bodhi. Pull the cord! Now!!
Naw, you pull it!
Go on, Johnny. Pull it. But you gotta drop the gun, first! Right?! You use your other hand what you gonna hold on with?
Pull it right now or I'll blow your fucking head off and pull it myself!
Well that's the only way it's gonna happen, man. Do it! Come on, you want to do it. You're gonna die, Johnny. Five more seconds. Four...
Three seconds... two... one...
SHIT!!
Wild ride, huh?
Jesus Christ, Bodhi!
And I always knew I could count on you, Agent Utah.
I'm not FBI anymore.
You never were...
I asked them to give me a couple minutes...
Don't close the door. Don't turn out the hall light.
I won't. Goodnight.
'Night.
Ah, Susy, it...
Tom . .. bed! Go on.
Don't you want to walk, Tom?
No.
Actually, I've been once today already. I'll stay here with him.
Jeremy! How Fantastic.
Darling Susan.
You're so famous now.
And you're so beautiful. What are you doing here?
We're thinking of doing this current affairs thing for schools. World history since 1945. Twelve programmes, lots of stock film.
In that case, you should meet my very dear friend, James Penfield. Brilliant analyst of recent history and a world authority on the Berlin Airlift.
It was last year.
We might be able to dig out a couple of Suez survivors for you.
Darling Susan. You look like an angel. But where's your hat?
Oh no!
They won't let you in without one.
Don't point it at James!
Voila!
What have you got there?
You'd look naked without one.
Oh, yes! Where's mine? I want to look like you.
We'll see what we can do.
Promise?
Promise.
It was incredible. He came back, made a pompous little bow and said, 'My dear girl you may film me all afternoon if you wish.' And he's promised not to talk to the Press.
It's because he desires you. The women get all the breaks at these conferences.
It's true! I was here last year doing a piece, remember? I was in the bar with all these Northern trade unionists and their sponsored MPs. They were all incredibly fat and beery, huge trousers and braces. And so sweet. They all stood round me like children saying 'You! Working for television? You're just a young thing.' They wouldn't let me buy drinks even when I told them the programme was paying. They kept looking at my pass which was pinned here and saying 'Oo, can I?'
Then one of them was sick all over your new dress.
No, he wasn't. He just lowered himself into a bar stool and said... 'Oo I do feel bad. I 'ad three pints of lager and six onion bajees!'
I just might give you a ring when we get back to London. There's one or two things I'd like to... Will you let me have your number before you leave? Have you ever watched a commercial being made?
No.
Well, it's worth seeing.
I'll tell you another thing. We might have led the world once into the Industrial Revolution, now we lead with television commercials. We're the best, it's as simple as that. Even the Americans will admit it now ... the camera work, the acting, the scripts, special effects. We've got the lot. Nearly all the good directors here have ambitions to make serious films. That food you're eating.
Yes.
What would you call it?
I dunno. Ploughman's Lunch.
Ploughman's Lunch. Traditional English fare.
Uhuh.
In fact it's the invention of an advertising campaign they ran in the early sixties to encourage people to eat in pubs. A completely successful fabrication of the past, the Ploughman's Lunch was.
Susan told me that your visits to Norfolk had ... well, an ulterior motive.
She said that?
You weren't really interested in Suez at all. Incredibly enough, you were interested in my wife.
Now listen...
No, no, let me go on before you get the wrong idea. Ann and I have kept to our separate bedrooms for the last three years. And I can't imagine that Susan hasn't hinted at the kind of life I lead in London. I'm not telling you how to run your affairs. I'm just saying ... I don't mind. I'm giving you permission.
Hello, Jimmy.
Dad.
Come into the kitchen. I'm just making your mother's tea.
So how is she?
Well, she doesn't complain much. You know what she's like. She keeps asking when you're coming...
I'm sorry about Saturday, Dad. It was just impossible to get away.
Oh she knows you're very busy, especially now, with everything going on...the doctor said to try her on solids, but she's been right off her food...You take this up to her. Tell her you made it. She'll like that.
Everyone's been marvellous really, Jimmy. The neighbours come and sit with her while I'm at work.
That's good.
And Joe Ramage  do you remember him? He comes and helps out in the shop.
Yes, you said.
Now, are you going to have some more tea?
No, thanks Dad.
Or a beer. I've got some in.
I've got to be going. I've got a meeting tonight.
The bed's all made up if you want to stay.
I'll ring you in the next couple of days.
Wait...and with talks at the United Nations still making little progress, tension and anxiety settled on MPs of all parties in Westminster. Speaking on the Jimmy Young Show earlier today, Mrs Thatcher said the prospects of a peaceful solution did not look encouraging. What is it?
Take a look at these.
Not bad.
Fifteen news items. I got exactly the same running order as the bulletin desk. They're all old pros.
Terrific.
It's that lady from Norfolk again.
I'm not here.
I'm terribly sorry. He doesn't seem to be here ... No ... Yes, if I see him, I will. .. Goodbye. She's going to phone back.
Next time tell her I've gone away.
Hello.
Hello.
I'm waiting for your mother.
She said awfully sorry, make yourself comfortable, she won't be long. .
Thanks.
Why not sit down and wait?
Okay, I will.
She's not my mother, anyway. My mother's in Italy.
Oh, I see.
Have you come to talk about me?
Not at all. History.
What period?
Suez. 1956.
Do you want to hear my list of English Kings and Queens?
All right.
It goes from Henry VIII. Henry VIII, Edward IV, Mary, Elizabeth I, James I, Charles I, Charles II, James II, William and Mary, Ann, George I, II, III and IV, Victoria, Edward VII, George V, Edward VIII, George IV, Elizabeth II.
What about the Cromwells?
They don't count.
Not here.
To the airlift.
To the airlift.
Any sign of the goddess Barrington?
Not yet you know any of these people?
One or two. A grey lot. Some social democrats. Some diligent anticommunists. A political section man from the US Embassy. And this exquisite Californian wine, courtesy of the CIA.
Nonsense.
Blas and epicene.
We were just chortling over that. Blas and epicene. It perfectly describes the new Foreign Secretary. SoI hope you don't mind, Edward, I pinched it for my piece today.
C'mon. I don't want any Jones about this.
No jokes. James is in love.
Bastard.
Name so Susie Barrington. Daughter of the eminent historian, Anne Barrington, stepdaughter of the scandalous Matthew Byrd the acclaimed sackartist...
To the Fleet.
To the Fleet.
And the Argies.
The Argies.
Now, top secret file.
Come on. Hand over.
Uhhuh. Tell me what you think of this first.
It's shit.
You approve!
Let me see.
Get way. You'll see when I'm ready. First I want you to reflect on my noble behaviour, on how your interests are closest to my heart, how I lay awake at night worrying
Jeremy, just let me see what you've got.
You're so hard. All right then. I was chatting to some people from the diary page, and the name of Barrington came up. I expressed an interest...
Oh yes.
...an innocent interest, and found out that last year Vogue ran a series called 'Mothers and Daughters' Number seven, Anne and Susan Barrington. Being a decent loving friend I went to the files and made a copy for you.
Let me see.
Ah, ah. There's more. The piece celebrates the undying affection between eminent leftwing historian and he dazzling daughter. Then the news editor, who happened to be in the room, said that years ago, when he worked on The Guardian, Anne Barrington had written a very good piece on...guess...Suez. It was 1966, the tenth anniversary.
She's never written a book in it, but she clearly knew a lot.
Mmm...
It's obvious what you have to do. Your way into the daughter's pants is through the mother, up the Suez canal...
You're so gross.
She's very nice, apparently. Lives in Norfolk. And very leftwing. You'll have to watch yourself there.
Ha ha...
According to this, the daughter goes up to stay quiet often. You'll need to get yourself invited for the right weekend.
You've really got it all worked out, haven't you?
No need to thank me, if you don't want to. Just pay for these drinks.
That's enough of that.
We've been playing ten minutes for Christ sake.
Far too long.
What have you been up to?
Well, everyone's desperate for a new Falkland's angle. Purdy's come up with a real dog. Worker's rights in Argentina. So I've been running round getting people to do things. But no one's keen. Workers rights. When did anyone on that paper give a damn about workers rights? I said to Purdy, "Look, tits, bingo, jingo, horoscope, sport, celebs, gossip and the occasional firm stand on"
The torture of small children
On the torture of very small children, but don't start telling them about their rights
Hold those rights.
Tame those rights...you know, we're even freighting in a couple of exiled Argie trade unionists from Paris for a TV tie in. One of them had his balls tapdanced on by the secret police. The other one had to be hosed off the wall of his cell after the police yes my good man?
Fortunate that I was here to keep Susan entertained.
Sorry. Got held up. What are you doing here?
Delivering gossip and goodwill. It seems we'll both be doing Brighton. Perhaps you should come too.
Will it be fun?
Perhaps I will, then.
I'm off. Let's meet. You promised to tell me about Norfolk.
I'll ring you.
Still in love?
I'm not sure.
Six onion bajees! Great girl. Did you shake the mother off?
Yes, finally.
Big mistake, I think. You might have learned a lot.
Are you up to something?
Susan and I are very old friends, James.
Fuck off.
And you were obviously getting nowhere with her. I was waiting for the right moment to tell you that.
My God. You even cooked up that Norfolk trip.
It might have worked. Really. I would have been delighted for you if it had. But she wasn't interested. Not my fault.
You're a piece of shit
I've known Susan for more than fifteen years. James, we're old allies.
So it's all worked out perfectly...
That's her.
Was that your chapter, then? It was very good.
Thank you. We met last week, at the Wajda film. You won't remember. We didn't actually speak.
Yes, that's right. I'm being terribly rude. Bob? Oh, Bob. This is Bob Tuckett. Bon was at Oxford too.
Can I give you a lift?
No, it's all right. I can get a cab. Night night.
What did you think of that Wadja film?
I quite liked it. I wasn't as enthusiastic as everyone else.
I thought it was tremendous.
I think it went on rather too long.
I couldn't bear for it to end.
And I didn't like that man.
Oh, but he was terrific.
And the shape of it all. It was sort of...shapeless.
Really? I thought those long flashbacks were extremely good.
You don't like flashbacks because your mother's a historian.
Good theory. But I like my mother. I have no aversions to what she does.
Too bad. What did your father do?
My real father? Well, he was a flashback.
Everyone describes the same process. At first it is exciting. You're at the centre of the world. As soon as anything happens, you're the first to know about it. And there are deadlines a dozen times a day, even more, and that's intimidating and exciting. Then you get the hang of it and the excitement wears off. Your a clerk in a rather dowdy Office. There's none of the glamour of television, or the penetration of serious journalism. You're a processor of semiofficial news. Some people leave at this stage. Then, if you hang on, and especially if you're promoted, you discover a new kind of pleasure. You're pleased by the ease with which you can write summaries and bulletins from news agency printouts, by the way you ca judge length. Ending a broadcast on the dot, having everything run smoothly, selecting a running order that makes sense, knowing instinctively what you can and cannot do. Professionalism.
And you're at this third stage
No, there's a fourth. Numbness. You do everything right, but you feel nothing either way.
I think you're exaggerating. And if you aren't, you should jolly well change your job.
Oh yes?
Yes. You're much too old to making a drama out of alienation, or whatever you call it. You've got to take responsibility for your own happiness. That's what I think anyway.
Mummy and I, we were more like lovers, really, or sisters. Then a couple of years after Daddy died, and not long after I left Oxford, she started seeing various men and I was furious. I really was upset. I stopped going home. I never phoned. I went round telling everyone how awful her books were. And she hardly seemed to notice, and that made me angrier. Then I got a job I was interested in, and I started to see lots of men, and I suppose I grew up a little and began to understand. So I wrote her a long letter, almost seven pages, saying how sorry I was, and how I was worried that we were drifting apart. And do you know, she wrote me a poem, a really beautiful poem about mothers and daughters.
How nice.
It makes me weepy just to remember it. So we were fine again, and then she got married to Matthew who's a womaniser and a bit of a yob, but quite nice really, makes TV commercials. What about yours.
Both dead.
That must be rather nice, in a way. I mean, you don't have any
Damn. They're early.
Who?
I called you a taxi.
Very thoughtful.
Well, you know...
Again?
Yes, if you like. Call me at work.
Why not stay?
I have to be up early.
Me too.
Two or three years ago I would have stayed. And fucked you.
Too late. Just my luck.
You don't trust me.
I don't trust anyone. That's what comes of working in television.
In radio we're different.
I bet. Thanks for the drink.
I might see you in Norfolk over the weekend.
You just might.
I think we're ready now, thank you. And how was Norfolk? Did you get on with my mother?
I think she liked me.
Did she talk about me?
No. We talked about history, and Siberian Geese.
Do you think she's invited you up for her sake or for mine?
I haven't really thought about it.
Well, you should.
I haven't seen much of you.
No. It's a bit of a madhouse. For some reason a lot of my mother's friends specialise in monologues.
He's all right, the professor.
Look, will you come on a walk with me tomorrow?
I might.
Might?
Might?
Yes. Might. Remember, you're here to talk to my mother.
Jeremy phoned this morning
What did he want?
He's making plans for Brighton. He thought we could travel down together.
That'll be fun
In your car
Why not.
Shall we have a drink or something?
Oh ... excuse me. There's Nicholas.
We don't seem to get much time to talk.
I know. I'm sorry.
I know, I know! Gentlemen, let me introduce you to one of our most talented contributors to The Cold War. James Penfield. He wrote the opening chapter, on 'The Berlin Airlift'. One of the best chapters in the book.
Hello.
I won't introduce you all by name. Basically James, this is our UK sales team. What was I saying? Yes, these graduate trainees...
Would you like a dessert...I'm having one.
No thanks. I'd like to break away
I'll have some of that.
...break away completely from
And some of that. Sorry.
...from all the moralising and talk of national humiliation that is now the standard line on Suez...
Yes...You're not a socialist then?
No. I'd want to
Good.
I'd want to set out events as they happened. The way I see it is this: the British Empire was an ideal. It may have become totally obsolete by the middle of this century, but it wasn't totally dishonourable to try and defend its remains and try and salvage some selfrespect, which is what I think the Conservatives were trying to do. Then there's the essential
Are you going to have coffee?
Yes, please.
And you'll join me in a sambucca?
Thank you.
Personally James, I'm very excited by this new arrangement we have. It gives us direct access to literally hundreds of American collages. Twentieth century history is a growth area over there, don't ask me why. Your readership will be first and second year American collage students...
Freshman and sophomores...
You know the lingo. Jolly good. So your language will have to be simple, not stupid, mind, but simple, very, very simple, and always remember it's an American readership.
Like I was saying, the American angle in Suez is very important. I wouldn't want to say they let us down. I think that's wrong. A good ally is one who doesn't back you up in your mistakes, who tells you when to pull back. And the Americans were good allies. Simple as that.
James... I can't begin to tell you how pleased we all are. Congratulations, and I really mean it.
Thank you.
It's everything we wanted. A very good read. A terrific piece of work. So, here's to you and Suez.
And to history.
It's terribly good.
Don't tell me you've actually read it, Jeremy.
Committed to memory. Forever.
I see.
Attributed?
Of course.
Why, is there a new Foreign Secretary? Who was the old one anyway?
It needn't concern you, Edward. James has got some news. He needs a poet's advice.
Congratulations. Who with?
A glamorous young lady way above his station...
Charles! I didn't know you were back. Have a good holiday?
Not too bad, thanks. How have you been?
Working hard on that book I was telling you about. Coming to the meeting?
I'm not sure I can face it.
Keep me company.
How's Mary?
She's fine. Well, actually we've broken up. It's all over.
No. That's terrible, Charles. What happened?
Look, I'd rather you didn't ask me questions. I can't talk about it.
Aha. James giving some woman the old heaveho.
Exactly that.
Thank you.
Sit on that log, dear.
Now first of all, tell us your name.
Penfield. James Penfield.
This is Jill, Carol, Betty, Mandy, Louise, Pete over there, and I'm Carmen.
But I'm not an interviewer or a correspondent.
That doesn't matter. As long as we can get our message through to someone there. Jill, where are those handouts?
Give them here. This tells you how the Women's Peace Camp came to be set up. All local women at first, then we had support from women and men all over the country.
Very good.
Terrific.
But what we need is national coverage. It's difficult with this Falklands madness going on. Do you think you might be able to do something when you get back?
I'll suggest it. Remember though, we're news, not features. It might help if you could get yourselves attacked by the police. Anyway, I'll be back with this soon. Thanks.
Mr. Penfield. I am sorry to have kept you.
It's kind of you to see me.
Tom, Daddy would like to see you in the garden. And will you ask Betty to bring us some coffee. And remember to say 'please'.
He's a little unhappy. I hope he wasn't a nuisance?
He was delightful.
My first husband worked for the BBC. I doubt if anyone there remembers him now, just another long dead diligent administrator. He would have been useful in the fight to preserve the BBC's independence during the Suez crisis  one of the few things he was passionate about. I became involved too. I started work on a book that would have been published on the tenth anniversary of Suez. Then he died, and I loots the will to write it. By the time I was over his death, other books had been published, and it wasn't worth going on.
What a shame.
It wasn't much more than a pot boiler.Suez was very important for our generation. I didn't want it to be forgotten. And that's why I'd like to be able to help you. But really Mr. Penfield, I looked through my notes before you came, they're all very much out of date, there's been so much published since. I don't think I'm your man.
Well, I am a great admirer of your work. I read your books on Chartism when I was still at school. I'm a journalist, not a historian. There are questions of method, and approach. I wondered
I see. Are you a socialist, Mr. Penfield?
Yes.
Good. Suez was a minefield for both parties.
My husband apologises for not joining us. It's not too cold for you, Mr. Penfield?
It's fine, thank you.
Since you are a friend of my daughter's, I think I'm entitled to call you James, don't you think?
Please do. I was beginning to wonder who this Mr. Penfield was.
And I'd like you to call me Ann.
To Ann.
To James. I remember what it was I was going to say. We were talking about forgetfulness. The Czech writer Kundera has one of his characters say that the struggle of man against tyranny is the struggle of memory against forgetting.
History books are first onto the bonfires.
If we leave the remembering to historians then the struggle is already lost. Everyone must have a memory, everyone needs to be a historian. In this country, for example, we're in danger of losing hardwon freedoms by dozing off in a perpetual present.
Here I am lecturing you. Have some pt.
Thanks.
So I can go ahead and be a historian without feeling like a poseur.I shall be fulfilling a citizen's duty.
If you like. But don't be too modest, James. The citizen's duty is to remember, not necessarily to write books. You are highly qualified. You're a responsible journalist doing what sounds to me like a very demanding job. Every day you take decisions that depend on your sense of history. A genuine tyranny would have to get rid of people like you.
You're kind to be so encouraging.
I think you'll do very well.
I do worry about Susan. Have you known her long? She hasn't mentioned you.
Actually, we've only just met. But we're quiet good friends.
It's a pity she couldn't make it up here today.
Yes.
She'll be here next weekend. Why don't you come too, James? I'll * show you the marshes properly. If you're lucky you might even see the first of the geese arriving from Siberia.
Well, I'd hate to be a nuisance.
Don't be silly. I'll look out some more Suez material for you. You'll be very welcome.
Thank you.
We'll see you next week, and if
The references are to Hansard or to newspapers. I haven't got the actual speeches now. You'll have to chase them up.
I will, thanks.
These are transcripts of various radio broadcasts, including Gaitskill's, the one they tried to stop. You ought to have that ...
Hello. Anyone for a walk? Tom isn't, I can tell you.
Well, we were just...
Shall we go?
Yes.
Then I began to listen to what the welloff were saying about the poor now the war had just ended, and the language was much the same as it had been before the first Reform Act. A small minority thought that England was really theirs, they had made it, they owned it. The rest, the wage earners, were foreigners, outsiders intent on wrecking it all.
Didn't Evelyn Waugh say that the country under Atlee seemed to be under enemy occupation?
Did he? I left school and worked for the Labour Party. My older brother, George, had just been killed in Greece, and he'd been an active member. I heroworshipped him. He was 25 years old ... It was an exciting time for us, those first couple of years after the war. We thought the country was about to become a true democracy. I can understand why people of your generation want to write about that time. They feel betrayed. They want to know what went wrong.
What went wrong?
Oh, many things. Inertia ... Stalin and the Cold War... a failure of nerve. We took the seediest, most inefficient fifth of the economy into State care, paid out millions for it, put the same old duffers in charge. A new broom with very old bristles. When the Tories were returned, I went and sat in the BM and wrote my little book on Chartism.
I'm afraid you're not very glad to see me, Margo.
With your charm? How could I help it? Have a nice trip?
Soso.
Who's the girl?
Her name's Mayfield. Betty Mayfield.
Nice.
She's just a girl I met on the train. You don't mind do you?
Why should I mind?
You shouldn't. You washed me up very thoroughly.
As thoroughly as I could. It wasn't easy. But you are helping me.
Margo, darling. You washed me up. Remember? We're just friends. You wanted it that way.
She's very beautiful. She's much younger than I am. And she's rich, I hope.
Rich? I haven't the faintest idea. Why?
You ought to know why.
I don't. My hunch is she's just torn up an unhappy marriage. I was able to do her a small favor.
Splendid. Now she can return the compliment.
I hoped to get enough to cover them before they cleared. I wasn't lucky.
You know what would happen to you if I turned these over to the police?
I have a rough idea.
You'd go to jail. For a long term.
Correct. I couldn't even afford to pay a lawyer to defend me.
What'll we do about it, Margo?
She is much younger than I am. That's something I'm going to have to get used to. Isn't it, Larry? They'll all be much younger than I am. Here. Tear them up.
I've always been a heel. I guess I always will be.
You don't have to make a pose of it.
It's the only pose I have left. I'm sunk. Broke. I don't even have my hotel bill.
I seem to recognize this routine. First the kiss then the touch. Oh, what's the use. You're you.
I seem to remember that you like to help yourself.
That's not very kind.
Kind or not kind. What's the difference? It always ends up the same way.
What's this?
What does it look like?
How long have you had it?
Years, why?
It's against the law to cross the border with a gun. The Canadian police might like to know about this.
You already have the checks, darling.
I didn't mean it that way I'm sorry.
Oh, forget it. Clark Brandon's throwing a party up in his penthouse this evening. Take me?
Of course.
How about your new friend?
I told you she's just..
A girl you meet on the train. Excuse my bringing it up again. Be back in an hour. Right?
Right.
In an hour, Larry.
I'm sorry. I forgot about calling for you.
It's quite unimportant, Mr. Mitchell. After all, you got what you wanted.
Be nasty.
I have no intension of being nasty, Mr. Mitchell.
In that case, there's someone here I'd like to introduce to you. Over there.
She is beautiful. And young. No thank you.
I say YES!
You're very attractive, my dear. And you look very unsophisticated.
Unsophisticated? If I knew about this babe...
Killaine, this is Mr. Mitchell, Senior. Young Mitchell's father. He just flew in from Toronto.
How do you do, sir.
I've explained the situation to Mr. Mitchell up to a point. Now about this Mayfield girl?
She's a suspect, naturally. But not the only one.
She's the only one who had a dead man in her room. The only one who won't give an account of herself. The only one who tried to run away. And the only one, so far, I've been told, who went to such lengths to disguise her identity that she even removed the labels from her clothes. What more do you want?
No.
I hear she's a very pretty girl.
Which forces me to arrest her against my better judgment.
Aye. You have a point there.
Am I to interpret that as an order to arrest Miss Mayfield?
When I give an order, you'll not need it interpreted. You have an hour to make your mind up. Well, are ye satisfied, Mr. Mitchell?
Are you a policeman or a softheaded nincompoop?
A little of both, sir, and perhaps not quiet enough of either.
It won't look pretty good on your record, Killaine. Where's the girl now?
I don't know, sir.
Well, find out. Who's covering her?
Nobody's covering her, I detached the officer assigned to that duty.
This girl is a murderess, Killaine.
I disagree, sir. As Inspector in charge of the case I have the right to form that opinion, the right to act on it.
Ye have, have ye?
We lifted seven fairly good prints from Miss Mayfield's toilet articles. Washington ought to teletype us within a few hours.
And in the meantime this girl goes where she pleases, does what she pleases?
Yes, sir.
"Superintendent J. Mckechnie, Vancouver Police Department. Vancouver B.c. Replaying To Your E.P. teletype classification No. 2684 incomplete. We advise identification possible. Elizabeth Kinsolving, arrested Greenwater, North Carolina, January 8, 1948, on a charge of murder. Signed, FBI., Washington, D.C. H. Cleary, Inspector in charge." Have ye any comment, Killaine?
Identification on possible, Sir. Not conclusive.
"Superintendent J. McKechnie, Vancouver Police Department. Replying your inquiry Elizabeth Kinsolving. Subject was indicted, first degree murder her husband, Lee Kinsolving, January this year. Guilty verdict set aside by presiding judge. Prisoner discharged, Whereabouts now unknown. Fingerprint classification" And exact correspondence, Killaine.
"Physical description: Age 26, Height 5 1 3/4 inches: Weight, 188 pounds: Light brown hair: Deep blue eyes: Small, perfectly formed features: Ears and earlobes small: Slender build: Wears size 4 AA shoe: Quiet refined manner: New York accent: No charges pending. No prior criminal record. Mayfield, Mother's name. Airmailing you photographs today. Signed Hubert Tollison, Chief of Police, Greenwater, North Carolina." She bleached her hair, or course. Would your sensibilities be offended, if I sent out a general alarm to pick up this girl?
I think you'd be entirely justified, sir.
But you still think she's innocent.
I do.
I believe you won decorations during the war.
Two.
There are people in this world who don't think a police badge is a badge of honor. I'm not one of them.
Nor I. This is why I gave it to you.
You're a young man. You're romantic. You think a pretty face and a clean conscience go together. You think a soft voice means a soft heart. You'll grow out of that.
Not too far, I hope.
This badge is not an old newspaper you can cast down on the desk. It is not a thing you can give up as of no value. It may be taken from youand you may die defending it. But you'll not use it to make cheap dramatic gesures with. It's a naked steel of the sword of Justice. Put it back in your pocket and hold tight to itand someday you might grow into a worthiness ye lack now.
Get out of here!
What are my orders, sir?
You think I'm wrong about this bit of a girl. Go out and prove it against me!
Yes, I think so. Here are two glazed manila envelopes. One is the bag type. The other one had the money in it. Don't ask me how I know. I know.
I'm interested in who handled it.
Four different people, Inspector. Three men and a women. I've made slides for two. They handled both envelopes.
No doubt about that one.
How about Magruder?
He checks too.
That leaves two strangers.
So far.
Try Betty Mayfield. The Mitchell case.
Mayfield? She fit into this?
She might.
You'll have to take my word for it. We don't make slides until we have perfect prints for comparison.
I'll take your word.
This gun permit was issued to Clark Brandon?
The card says so, doesn't it?
Brandon handled the money envelope.
Oh, the Coldstream Guards. Don't you take your hat off in elevators?
I never wear a hat. Oh, so I am. I forgot. I guess I'm terribly sorry again, Mrs. West.
May you what?
Oh nothing.
Are you always this witty?
Scotch and plain water, I think.
Warm water, no doubt.
I never saw it before.
Positive?
What about me?
Not quiet yet.
You knew Mitchell pretty well, didn't you, Mrs. West?
I was in love with him... which shows you the quality of my brains. Why don't you ask her about the gun?
I shall. From your knowledge of Mitchell, would you say he would be likely to commit suicide?
Anybody could commit suicide, if he felt low enough. I've felt it myself.
Then why not give Miss Mayfield the benefit of the doubt?
I'd be delighted to... anytime you can show me the doubt. I'll wrap it up in tissue paper and put a Christmas seals on it for her.
Thank you very much, Mrs. West.
Remember that time, didn't I? Good morning Mrs. West. Does your visit here mean you've changed your mind?
How did you know? Clarendon. You cops never tell anybody anything, do you.
Other people always know so much more than we knowso much more than they're willing to tell us.
It was Clarendon. He knew I had the gun in my bag.
You couldn't possible have traced it this soonnot possibly.
Of course not. Thanks for telling me. I haven't seen Mr. Clarendon.
I am a fool.
That depends upon your motive. You were in love with Mitchell, weren't you?
Yesand he's already becoming vague to me. Funny! Last night I was furiously jealous. Jealous of what? I out that gun in my bag deliberately. Who was I going to kill with it? A girl I didn't even know? A man I knew to be a thief and a forger? A halfman? A gigolo? It's already ludicrous. Love! What a comedy!
You didn't play it for laughs last night.
Did you ever have a serious operation?
Mortar shells are not funny, either.
At first, it doesn't hurt at all. That's shock. Then it hurts terriblyyou wouldn't believe such pain could existand six months later you can't remember what pain felt like. It hasn't taken six months this time. It hasn't even taken twenty four hours. Is that a beastly thing to say?
Not if it clears the air.
It does. May I go now?
I'll investigate Mr. Clarendon's financial position
I don't understand.
Perhaps a rich widow would have solved all his problems.
Now, you're being beastly.
Sure. You didn't come here in person just to tell me about the gun. You wanted me to be looking across the desk at you while you talked about Mitchell. If I believe you, it would be psychologically impossible for you to have killed him last night.
And if you didn't believe me?
You would still have planted information that Clarendon knew about the gunand not as an accusation, but in the process of defending yourself by making a confession. Very neat. Good morning, Mrs. West.
You in charge here?
So it seems Sergeant.
Right.
I hate to pull rank on you Sergeant, but once in a while...for moral purposes...you might address me as "Inspector". In moments of extreme desperation, you might even call me "sir".
I knew him. He was easy to dislike, poor chap.
They tell me he'll be a great loss to the liquor trade. This Mayfield girl...
... I supposed you knew her, too, Inspector.
I've met her.
It's her room. She only got to the Hotel this afternoon,. With him. I guess he took too much for granted. Here's the gun.
Pearlhandled .25 Automatic, uh? No, it's a Belgian gun... 6.6 mm.
Correct, Inspector. A woman's gun. U.S. 125 caliber ammunition in it. It was on a table in there.
This make of gun throws a shell backwards, high, and to the right. The chaise is only about four feet from the wall.
So the shell ought to have gone over?
Unless the gun was slanted up.
So the wound and the shell give you the same answer.
Right. A clean deduction from observed facts. They've got to be simple once in a while, Inspector.
I've always looked forward to it. All right, let's get him out of here and tidy up.
She didn't seem the type to lam outeven if she got the chance. That stuff was all gone through last night. Anything special you're looking for, Inspector?
I'll know when I find it.
I guess I'm just ballast around here.
"G.G. Market oneeightfourtwo."
Gigi, huh? Sounds Frenchone of those fancy ladies. Must have been very fancy, if he scratched her phone number in gold.
Market... It seems to me that's a San Francisco exchange.
That's pretty risky business, Inspector.
Somebody did it twice last night in the dark.
Not too hard, is it?
Maybe we've been pretty dumb
There wasn't any motive...let's try out the act.
Was that about the right angle?
I think so.
Where's the shell?
Should be over there.
You've got a dead man on your hands. You killed jimeven if it wasn't murder. What are you going to do about it?
If I've got any sense I'm going to call headquarters.
They'll probably believe you. But they'll want to know what you were fighting about. Why Mitchell had a gun. You'll tell them a simple story. They'll pretend it sounds all right to them. Now you're headquarters. How does it sound to you?
Before I took the story and closed the case, I'd want to know a lot more about these people. I'd want to know just about everything about them.
Exactly. Now I'm the killer. And there's something I don't want you to know. Something that would destroy my comfortable life, rob me of my friends, my position.
Such as?
Assume there is something to hid. I go to a lot of trouble. What do I do? What would you do?
Do I know who lives down there?
You can find out.
Do I know that she's out of the room? Likely to be out of it for some time?
You can find out the first part. The second part you have to take a chance on.
Pretty big chance, huh?
You've got a dead man on your hands. Like this.
This is the shell. What about the gun?
Well. What about it?
I've handled it. Mitchell's handed it. If I wipe it off, no suicide. If I take it out and lose it, no suicide. If I leave it here....no suicide.
So?
I've got to find a way to handle it, openly. Like Brandon.
How did he know he'd get the chance? He couldn't have arranged it.
He could have tried. If he was up there in the dark, listening, he'd know when she came home, know when she found Mitchell dead, know what she did about it. If she telephoned, he'd probably hear that.
And she did give him the chance, the way it worked out.
If she didn'tif luck was against himhe wipes the gun off, reaches the wall up theredrops it on the chaise.
No suicide.
Did we ever really think it was suicide?
You win, Inspector. You win all along the line. Why didn't we think of Brandon beforeor did we some of us. Yeah. Of course you did. When a suspect thinks he's safe, you go on letting him think he's safe. Wait for a mistake.
And a motivewhich we haven't got. So this could all be a dream.
Greer and Goble in the Call Building, San Francisco. Just like you thought...Two murders in two days. Different places, different methods, different people. Nothing connects them, but a telephone number.
A think wirebut very, very strong. Let's get out of here.
I'm looking for Mr. Brandon.
The joint's not open, Mac. Who's Brandon?
I have an appointment with him, right here, right now.
Go live in a tent.
It'll be a tough dollar when guys like you learn the alphabet.
Talk English. How do I know you're you?
Mr. Brandon couldn't be here. He might have left something for you. What would it look like?
One of those nice long manila envelopessealed. Not too fat not too thin.
What do I get for it?
You get it's brother.
Sounds like a fair swap. Let's take a look.
I need a receipt. Sign your name across the flap.
Open it and count it.
When you sign for it, you count it. It's your dough.
The Harbor police have just picked up a dead man out of the water.
Floater?
Not a floater. Only just dead.
You're the waterfront specialist. Find out about it. I've got a murder to investigate.
You have two murders to investigate. This man's head was beaten in. And there's nothing in his pockets.
Drunkrolling job. They hit him too hard.
I've been on the waterfront detail for twelve years. This man hadn't been dead an hour. He wasn't killed last night. He was killed today. In broad daylight. That's no drunk rolling job.
Let me know when you've identified him
And don't get too logical, Driscoll. In police business it doesn't work. I wish it did. But it doesn't
I'm an Irishman, sir. An Irishman is always logical.
Got a moment, Inspector?
I've got a year. Or a second. I'm not sure which.
You told me when we'd identified this fellow
We've done that. He's a San Francisco private eye. Name Martin J. Goble, GOBLE. Had initials in his hat and for once he lived where he bought it. Goble and Greer is the firm name.
Swimming with his hat on? That's original.
If you'd seen the blood on his headand some body had to carry him out to sea
I understand. Pity to mess up a nice clean boat.
I got through to Greer, his partner in the detective business. Greer won't give out.
I'd suggest a telegram. Something like this: Chief of Police, San Francisco. A licensed private detective named named Martin J. Goble, address soandso, has been found murdered within our jurisdiction. His partner, name somethingsomething Greer, refuses to give us any information. Correction. Refuses information necessary to our investigation. Can you assist? Signed Detective Sergeant Driscoll, Vancouver, British Columbia, Police.
Send that?
Would you?
If you're asking my opinion, no. I'd read it to Greer over the phone. Ask him if he had any objections.
Catch me at the Vancouver Royal if it's important.
How important would it have to be? It's only murder, Inspector.
The Super's just given me the sweetest dressing down I've ever had. I'm still reeling from it. And believe me, I had it coming. I apologize. What you think is importantI think is important.
Thanks, Inspector. What are your orders about this wire to San Francisco?
Men like you don't need orders.
What's the face for, Driscoll?
Magruder's conked out. Adrenaline injections, oxygen tent. He may come out of it and he may not. As a source of quick information, we can't forget him.
We don't need him.
Mr. Clarendon, have you ever seen this before?
I'm sorry, Inspector, I don't know much about..
Recently, then.
No, Not recently. I'm sure of that.
Thank you.
I needn't keep you any longer, Mr. Clarendon.
Thank you. It is rather late... and I'm not young anymore. Good night.
I'm getting positively haggard. In a couple of years people will be describing me as well preserved.
I see out friend Larry Mitchell is with us again.
So much less refined than frizzling them in the chair.
Oh, shut up! You haven't even got your spats on.
What are you doing here?
I don't think you locked your door.
What do you want?
See how easy it is? Perhaps Miss Mayfield left her door unlocked. Or if she didn't, there's a passkey on every floor in the linen room. The head porter has a passkey. The bell captain has a passkey. The hotel's full of passkeys.
Passkey?
Orsince one is a wellknown and respected guestone could go to the desk in the lobby and say "Miss Mayfield seems to have lost her room keyhave you another"? They always have another.
Don't be a fool. I loved him. He wasn't worth it, but I loved him.
And now that he's safe from all other women, you can go on loving him.
You nasty, sardonic
Sardonic, if you will my dear. Bust nasty. You lied about the gun.
I'm a very observant man. You had something in your bag this afternoon, Something that causes you to hold it in a particular way. Something that made a particular sound when you put it down on the bar. You went out with Mitchell. None of us ever saw him again.
That's not enough.
I saw your face this evening when the detective showed you the gun. You lied. It was obvious.
He saw my face too.
So he didbut he hasn't told you what he saw. I have.
They'll arrest that girl. Everything points to her.
Convenient, isn't it?
One of these days, you're going to wake up in the middle of the night and find that you've cut your throat.
How clumsy. I'd never forgive myself. Good night my dear.
You could have got in that room, just as you got in here. How do I know you didn't kill Larry?
With what motive?
Nastiness. You're nasty with words. Why wouldn't you be nasty with deeds once in a while? You hated himand I know why.
He was very easy to hate. If you'll look in your mirror, when you are in a better temper you'll know why.
Good afternoon, Mr. Campbell.
Mr. Mitchell.
A little something on account perhaps?
Rather more than a little something, Mr. Mitchell.
I'm afraid this is all for the moment.
I think we'd better discuss this in my office, Mr. Mitchell.
Nothing to discuss. Tomorrow the sun will shine even brighter. Be grateful for small mercies.
Hello, Mitchell. Having fun?
The liquors lovely. The rest of the party you can have.
What's the matter, baby. Don't you like me anymore?
Lay off, can't you?
Lay off what? This is my new girl friend. Met her on the train. She's very fond of me. Love at first sight. Wasn't it, baby?
Do me a favor, Mitchell. Find yourself a nice secluded park bench.
Did I do something wrong?
I wouldn't know. Just do it somewhere else. There is such a thing as good manners.
How would you know, Brandon?
Want to walk out... or get thrown out?
You don't throw guests out, Brandon.
Don't bet on it. I'm eccentric.
What?
A private joke.
It goes with this... cold houses and warm drinks...the effete Englishman.
You're not English.
That's what I like about cocktail parties. Everyone is so perfectly natural.
How's life treating you?
The usual grind.
Round of golf Saturday?
If I can get off.
Would it have helped if I'd knocked him down?
Hardly. Who's the girl?
Somebody Mitchell picked up on the train. I don't even know her name.
She doesn't look like a girl who would let herself be picked up on a train.
That's what I thought, at first. Maybe somebody else ought to have thrown this party. With my liquor of course.
Thank you.
Yes, I've seen it before.
Where?
On Miss Mayfield's balcony.. beside the chaise, I picked it up. Don't ask me why. I ought to know better.
Quite sure you had no motive?
Could be.
I rather thought so. And before that, had you ever seen the gun?
No.
It was lying where on the balcony?
Near his right hand. About a foot away. Perhaps more. Good heavens, one doesn't use a tape measure.
We do, when we get the chance.
How about a cup of coffee?
No thanks. I had some. How would you like to take a walk for, say, half and hour?
How are you two getting along?
Delightfully. Every time Miss Mayfield says something, I know less than I did before. Well, I may as well knock off for tonight. Good night, Miss Mayfield. Do let me thank you for your cooperation.
In case you want to have us followed.
I don't.
Wellgood night.
Time for a little chat?
If it doesn't take too long. Drink?
Thanks. I don't mind.
Thanks. Lovely view you have, haven't you?
I never notice the view after the first week.
I would. Fancy waking up every morning with that in your lap. Wonderful thing, money is. Remember what Somerset Maugham said about it ?
I wouldn't know.
"Money is a sort of sixth sense that gives meaning to all the others." Very appealing, especially to a poor man.
Could we discuss that some other time?
Sure. Let's discuss Betty Mayfield. How long since you saw her?
A couple of hours.
I have a warrant for her arrest.
That must hurt.
I've always thought you were a pretty nice guy, Brandon. I'd like to go on thinking so. If you tried to help her get away
Would that make me a heel?
You'd be breaking the law.
Doesn't answer the question.
The only answer I have for you.
You passed up a dozen chances to arrest her. What toughened you up?
Information.
Don't kid me. You don't think she murdered Mitchell.
It could have been an accident.
That COULD BE TOLD.
Not if she knew she wouldn't be believed.
Your concentrating too hard, Killaine. What about Margo West? She had a motive. I guess you know by this time whose gun it was?
And old man Clarendon? He had a motive, too. Margo and her money.
Mitchell was killed down here. How could Clarendon get in to do it? Or Margo for that matter.
How could Mitchell? After that act he put on up here, is it likely she'd let him in?
She didn't have to. He could have climbed down from here.
Mitchell was too drunk.
Or just drunk enough. He was with her when she registered. He knew where her room was. You were out most of the evening. There was a lot of mess to clean up . Waiters coming and going, the door standing open. Suppose Mitchell came in to grab a drink for himself, then wandered out on this balcony, then realized betty's balcony was just below yours.
Romeo in reverse. Uhuh. No sale, Killaine.
You don't buy it. Okay. So I still want Betty Mayfield. Where is she?
No idea.
No more for me, thanks. Remember what I said. I can't interfere with the law.
Where would she go, anyway. Don't tell me you haven't got her covered.
You forgetting the gag line, Killaine. The police don't take anything for granted.
I'm afraid they do. Far too often. So long.
Wait a minute. I'll go with you.
You do a lot of real estate trading, Brandon?
Now and then. Mostly just for the fun of it.
I tried it once. I lost my shirt.
I buy my shirts by the dozen. Fortunately.
Where did it all come from? Or is that a permissible question?
I had a father who knew how to steal.
What?
You asked me where it all came from.
Oh. That was just one of those idle questions. One doesn't expect an answer.
All right, let's see the buzzer.
What's a buzzer?
So you're not a cop.
Me a cop? What made you think that, Mr. Brandon?
Who told you my name?
I've got good ears.
How are your teeth getting along?
The new ones are fine. The last set I had gave me all kinds of trouble.
What's this in favor of?
I don't like to be tailed. The lady I'm with doesn't like to be stared at. To put the matter in a couple of nutshells, I don't like you.
Hi Margo. Hello Killaine. You two come together?
In the same elevator. It is a public conveyance.
Let me introduce you. Mr. Killaine, Mrs. West.
Fascinated.
What'll you have, Margo?
Martini.
You, Killaine?
You make friends quickly, don't you, Clark?
Sometimes.
And without much discrimination.
Leave that one lay.
They still hang women in Canada, I've heard.
I'm sorry. This thing has just knocked me silly. How long do we have to wait for this police character?
Until he comes. He's a nice guy. You've met him.
That comedian?
I'd like a few words with you, in private.
I'm not interested in blind dates.
Nice friendly approach you've got. Goble. I could hardly walk when I got out of bed this morning.
You asked for it.
I'm still asking. What do you want?
I'm not sure I want anything from you. You might want something from me.
Name it.
Informationprotectionyou might even want to hire me to go home and listen to the radio. That's the funny part of my business once in a while, I get hired not to work. Nice girl you were with last night. Known her long?
Private eye?
You guessed it. The card's phony. I got plenty of 'em. Different names, different jobs. I work out of San Francisco. Go anywhere, do anything. All it takes is the folding.
What are your rates?
$40 a day and expenses. Expenses run pretty high on a case like this. I'm a long way from home. I don't have a B.C. Licence. I'd need about $500 for a retainer.
What have you got on Miss Mayfield?
Mayfield? Oh, that girl you were with last night. You haven't hired me yet. Mr. Brandon.
That's a nice hard knee you've got, Goble. How'd you like to trade it for a broken neck?
Quit trying to scare me, Mr. Brandon, I'm neurotic.
I don't know whether to knock your teeth down your throator call the policeor just give you twenty bucks to go out and buy yourself a clean nose.
You hurt my feelings. I ought to raise the price to be a thousand.
If I call the police, your price will go down to a minus sign.
Bluff. You've waited too long.
For five hundred, what do I get?
I go home and paint the kitchen.
For two hundred?
I stick around and wait for the five hundred.
You mentioned information.
Sorry. Another client paid for that. You can hire me not to use it.
A thousand.
Got it on you?
Got the information on you?
Get it in half an hour.
There's two hundred. I'll meet you in an hourwhere we met last night
Why not here?
I don't like your perfume in my office. Make it somewhere else if you don't like Charlie's.
Charlie's suits me fine. I don't scare.
Good morning, Mr. Brandon.
Morning. Any calls?
Mr. Reed would like you to call him.
All right. Get him.
And there's a Mr. Goble to see you. Says his business is personal.
Who's Goble?
Mr. Reed, please, for Mr. Brandon. Very well. Have him call. Mr. Brandon is in his office now. Mr. Reed stepped out, Mr. Brandon.
This way.
Mrs. West is a very emotional woman.
I don't know her.. or particularly want to.
You probably know the type. You find them in hotels and resorts all over the world. They always have clothes, and money, and usually have had three or four husbands. They dress and enamel themselves with great care. They worry a great deal about those little lines at the corner of the eyes.. And they demonstrate their incompetence at the art of living bet getting mixed up with people like Larry Mitchell. Tell me about yourself, Miss Mayfield.
I was born in New York City. I grew up. And here I am.
I'll have to know a little more than that.
I'm sorry, that's all there is.
Miss Mayfield, the humor of the situation escapes me. Within 24 hours I shall know officially whether Mitchell was murdered. Privately, I'm quite sure of it now. It happened in your room, and you came to Vancouver with him.. At any rate, he made your hotel reservation.. And you arrived together. Here in this room he behaved nastily to you, and you said something to him which might be taken as a threat. A few hours later he was found dead on your balcony. Would it be too much too suggest that all these circumstances taken together are a little suspicious?
Please answer my question.
You didn't ask a question. You made a speech.
That's an evasion and you know it.
It is?
Well, that's not getting us anywhere. You won't tell me who you are, or give any account of yourself. You won't even give me your address in the United States. Why? Unhappy marriage?
Who told you I was married?
There's the clear mark of a wedding ring on your finger.
Your family coat of arms, Mr. Killaine?
Regimental! Seaforth Highlanders.
I'm sorry.
Stop saying you're sorry. I want information, not regrets.
Would you be satisfied if I said I shot him?
What this?
Yes.
Where's you get it?
A graduation present.
An unhappy marriage hardly seems a sufficient reason for that.
Why don't you arrest me and be done with it.
I probably shallafter I've tortured you a little more.
Good morning, Mr. Killaine. I'm sorry I can't give you the name of my bankbecause I have no bank at the moment. That was a crude trick.
They're all crude, when they don't work. Had breakfast?
Care for a stroll outside? Beautiful morning. The air is like wine, the sky is a deep blue.
Deep blue? I'd call it greyblue.
You must come from pretty far South.
FLorida?
I've never been to Florida.
Down below's Stanley Park. On the other side of the trees, there's a beach. You can see it. Steveston's over there. Coast Guard station. There's the Yacht Club, and beyond it, the docks. The over on the other side of the inlet, there's Grouse Mountain. It's about 4000 feet high. There's a restaurant on top of it. Very nice restaurant. I'm sorry we couldn't have met in pleasanter circumstances, Miss Mayfield.
We wouldn't have met at all.
True. I was a bit irritable last night. I apologize.
You were a galahad, compared to some cops I've known.
You've had dealings with the police before?
Who hasn'tone way or another?
But not in the investigation of a major crime, I hope.
Is it a crime?
We're 98 per cent certain Mitchell was murdered. There are a lot of reasons. Was he very drunk when you last saw him?
You were there when I last saw him.
I'd like to believe that. It's not too easy.
I'll find out, you know. Perhaps not todayperhaps not tomorrow. But in the end, I'll find out.
The police always do, don't they?
You've has an experience that you don't want to talk about. An unhappy marriage, for example.
I wouldn't make you talk about it. My job is the death of Marry Mitchell. Why can't you give me your confidence?
Youor the Vancouver Police Department?
We try to be decent.
You're a police officer. A very nice onebut you have a job to do. I'm a girl who's in a jam, and it's your job to keep me there. Don't go considerate on me. I might start to bawl.
You won't tell me who you are? You won't even give me a chance to help you?
Nobody can help me. You, least of all.
If I understand what you meant by that.
You understand perfectly.
Then there isn't much I can do, is there?
There isn't anything you can do.
This isn't a very good place to talk.
I don't want to talk.
I've come here to arrest you for murder.
I expected nothing else.
I might be able to save you. If I knew enough.
You wouldn't even try There must be some copper in you, or you wouldn't be an inspector.
There must be but when I'm with you I can't find it.
I'm about to be very silly. A man passes a girl on the streeta very lovely girlhis eyes meet her eyes, and something reaches out and takes hold of his heart and then she goes on and is lost in the crowdand he says to himself, "There goes my lost love" and it's trueif he never sees her again, it's still true. Of course, after a while, he forgets or almost forgetsbecause after a while we forget almost everything. But this man is a copper. He gets ordersroutine ordersto go to a place and investigate a murder and everything points to a certain girl.
Points very straight to her.
He looks at the girl, looks into her eyes
What does he see?
Palm trees against a sunsetwaves breaking on a coral reefthe Taj Mahal by moonlightroses in an English garden, just after a shower Clichs, one and allbut good ones, with a lot of mileage left in themthere's one thing he does not seemurderand murder was what he was sent to find. Pretty ridiculous, isn't it?
Very ridiculous.
That's my hard luckI'm man enough to tell you about itand not be sorry.
What do your friends call you? The ones that know you well?and like you very much?
They call me Jeff.
Jeff. Shall we go now, Jeff, and get it over with?
Not quiet yet. We know who the gun belonged to. Margo West. She told us this morning. It doesn't mean much. Mitchell took it away from her. He had a habit of going through her bag.
Looking for peanuts, I suppose.
So Mitchell had handled it. Afterwards, Brandon picked it up. There's no indication you handled it.
I always wear gloves when I shoot people. A bad jokebut better than tears.
Time's up. I'm off the case.
They'll only find someone else who won't be so kind.
That's something I can't spare you. But I won't do it myself.
Because you think your in love with me?
I'm enough of a copper to do my duty. My boss made it tough for me. If I don't arrest you, I've gone soft. If I do, it's to save my face. I don't play those rules.
You've got a couple of hours, maybe.
To do what?
I can't answer that.
What will they do to you?
That's they're business. Can I drop you somewhere?
You're still a police officer, Jeff. I saw you send those two men away. I know they were watching me.
What are you going to dotoss your job into Puget Sound? Because I make you think of magnolias? I thought policeman was something like a soldier. That his duty came first. However much he might happen hate it.
I've been a soldier too. There is a difference. A policeman, like a judge, has a right to disqualify himself on proper grounds.
What proper grounds? You can't be in love with me. You hardly know me. I'm not in love with you.
I know that.
But even if you were in love with me.
There's an empty taxi across the street. If you're so anxious, take it. He'll know the way to the police headquarters.
You do things the hard way, don't you?
Sometimes.
Not sometimes. Always. Just because it is the hard way. You're that kind of man, Jeff.
Goodbye, Betty.
He could have killed me a dozen times. You'd never have known.
We know everything.
No, Jeff. You don't. He's not a murderer, I tell you. He;s not a murderer.
I hope he can prove it. Come on. You don't want to get pneumonia.
But I tell youif you'd only understand.
I understand, Betty. I understand perfectly.
Yes, Miss.
I'd like a dry Martini. Very dry, please.
Sorry, Miss. Beer and ale only. Canadian law.
Beer? Well, all right.
Beer or ale, Miss?
Ale. I don't mind.
Right, Miss.
You can have the table yourself, if you'd rather. I'm only killing time.
No, please.
Sit down then. We often have a double up here.
I see.
Your liquor laws..
Disgusting, aren't they? If you really want a Martini, I know where you can get one.
A fellow named Brandon has a penthouse here. He's holding open house. I was up there. Too noisy. Bored.
I see.
It might be worth a Martini to you.
I don't need it that badly. I don't enjoy crashing other people's parties.
It's openhouse. No crashing involved. Anybody in the hotel's welcome.
What did you say his name was?
Brandon. Clark Brandon. Fellow about my age. Lot of money... that he didn't make. Former American. Now naturalized in Canada. Social standing indeterminate. Manners not quite perfect. Scotch superb.
You don't sound as if you liked him very much.
No.. not very well. And I like his friends even less. But.. If you really want a good dry Martini..
As I said before...
Sure. But I'd hate like the Dickens to be held to everything I've said before, wouldn't you?
You're not paying for this. It's quite enough that you let me sit at your table.
I never pay for anything. They just keep me here to amuse the guests.
And do you amuse the guests?
No. Are you really going to drink that stuff?
You're drinking it.
I can be talked out of it. As a matter of fact, I'd like a dry Martini myself.
Would it make you anymore amusing?
Whatever you say.
I didn't say anything.
I don't know you and you don't know me. I made a reasonably polite suggestion. But I'm sure you'd rather be alone.
I hate to be alone. But I've heard all the approaches there are... even yours.
Neatly said...but to the wrong man. The trouble with pretty girls is that they can't imagine anyone thinking of anything else but the fact they are pretty girls. I get tired of it.
Do you think I don't?
Thanks for the fresh air. That felt good.
You're sure Mr. Brandon won't mind?
He doesn't even know half the people who come up to drink his liquor.
Dance?
No thank you.
I know it's a littler late for an apology.
Much too late.
Don't take it so big... it isn't a tragedy.
You said it wasn't a tragedy.
What's funny about that? If you pick up people like Larry Mitchell other people are bound to get funny ideas about you. The world is full of Larry Mitchells.
There's one less tonight.
There isn't one.. That anyone would believe. I went for a walk after dinner, down to the ocean...alone... I came up and went to bed. I didn't sleep very well. Then there was a thunderstorm. And it began to rain. I went across to close the French door. That's the first time I saw him out there.
He got in here how?
Not with my consent, strange as it seems. I don't know how he got in. I don't know anything.
No. And I've never fired a gun in my life, Aren't you supposed not to touch it?
Sure... but somebody always does..
They'll know whether he killed himself.
I don't.
How did you meet him?
On a train. He said he lived here, and he offered to make a reservation for me.
Nice of him.
He knew the immigration officer. He eased himself in.
He was a great boy for that. What else?
That's all there is.
Go ahead...if you want to. It doesn't matter.
I'd rather wait until it does matter.
You tried to run away.
There wasn't any plane.
It's always a mistake to run away. Always.
Want a spike in it?
No thanks.
There's one thing I may as well tell you. You'll find it out anyhow. I tried to run awaywhen I found him out there on the balcony. There wasn't any plane.
You didn't have to tell him that.
Bad?
Bad enough.
He could hardly help suspecting you.
That's putting it mildly.
What time is it?
Quarter after one. Why?
There's a lot of night left to live through.
So there is. You don't want to go to bed. I don't want to go to bed. Let's go somewhere and hear some musichave something to drink something to eateven dance.
Dance? Tonight?
Let's not pretend Mitchell meant anything to either of us.
Certainly not to me.
Just who are you, anyway?
You, too? My name is Betty Mayfield. I was born, and I am here. Message ends. That's what I told him. He didn't like it.
I'm different. I like it fine.
Cold?
Is this the best you can do?
At this time of night. It's not as bad as it looks.
Want to dance?
Dance? Here?
Why not?
They know you hereknow your name.
I know everybody. I don't look at half of life, just the nice half, I look at all of it.
That man over there. He was in the hotel lobby.
I didn't notice him.
We walked right passed him. He's following us.
Killaine's not that sort of guy. He said nohe meant no.
Then he's got to be a detective.
Couldn't be.
Then he's
Quite sure you saw him in the hotel lobby?
Absolutely sure.
We'll find out.
He's a fellow with a very hard knee, and he knows how to use it.
You don't know who he is?
He's not a cop. A cop wouldn't have kneed me.
He was following usbut he's not a policeman.
Us?
All rightfollowing me.
Why?
No matter. There's nothing I can do about it.
Anything I can do about it?
Take me homeand forget you ever saw me. That's a silly remark isn't it?
Try not talking.
It still doesn't matter if I kiss you?
Nothing matters.
No use waiting, then.
That's the second round I've lost tonight. That fellow hurt me.
So have I.
From you, I like it.
It sounds like a fair location. Could you be a little more exact?
I'm in the Hudson Bay Company's store. That man last nightthe one that followed me
I don't think that's on the market anymore. I'd like something much closer to the water.
Cant be too close for me. Right across the street from it suits me. Anything else listed?
There's another manright outside the booth here. I never saw him Before.
You're probably mistaken about that. Let's get together sand talk it over. There's always a solution to these problems. But it must be near the water. Quite near Yes, if you don't mind waiting.
I hated to go to that place. I almost went to the police station instead.
No percentage in that.
They're going to arrest me.
I know. Killaine has a warrant.
I have my own warrant. Stop a minute, please.
If you meant it, you wouldn't show it to me, Betty. Or am I supposed to deliver it to dear Inspector Killaine?
Wrote it in the waiting room of the Hudson Bay Store. With somebody's Pekingese trying to climb into my lap. Perhaps you're right. Perhaps I didn't mean it. All I know is that I'm licked.
There's a lot of water between Vancouver and the U.S.A. This note is a suicide note. After you're gone where would they look for you? Why would they look for you? Darkness, and open water, and a fast cabin cruiser. And I have a pocket full of money. And if I helped you, I'd be committing a crime, or so they tell me.
That wasn't why I called you. Why did I hopewhen I hadn't any right to hope?
How bad is it? Bad enough for
Yes. I've never been very far from it, for a long time. Will you do something for me?
Take me where I haven't the courage to take myself.
How bad is the other thing? The secret?
I was tried for murdering my husband. Guilty. The judge set the verdict aside. There was one man on the jury but he was afraid. They were all afraidof my fatherinlaw. That man followed me last night he came from him of course. My fatherinlaw will never give up. Never. He promised me that. So I came to Vancouver, B.C. As far away as I can get from North Carolina. And it happens all over again. Almost the same thing. Almost the same way. Do you wonder about this
This is the ace, Betty. But not of spades. They'll find out about the other. They might know already. And when they get this What would they look for? Where? Out there somewhere?
They'll look for you.
I run over to Victoria. Play some golf with some people I know. Do it all the time. That's why I have a cabin cruiser. Custom built.Forty knots. Mr Clark Brandon an almost gentleman of almost complete leisure. Member of six golf clubs. Broke 70 once on the Shaughnessy Heights Course. You have to be good to do that, And if you look out of a front window of the Empress Hotel in Victoria, in a few hours you can look right down on Mr. Brandon's boat, the Valkyrie. Came alone? Sure. He always comes alone. Mr Brandon's a rather lonely man.
And Betty Mayfield
Blonde, beautiful, and sadand nowhere. Of course she might have run awayif she knew how. And where to go. She might have dyed her hair. Bleached it before probably. And changed her name again. But look at this note. And look at her room in the hotel. Her stuff is all there. Hasn't a rag except what she stood up in. You don't run away like that. Not if you are young and beautiful. No chance.
But that's what I'm doing. Couldn't they think of that?
If they had any reason to. Why make it tough for themselves? Why go to all that trouble? Here's an open book. Close it. No reason to keep it open. She was a nice girl, anyway. And perhaps she didn't kill him on purpose. Perhaps she didn't kill the other one. You never know. Give her the benefit of the doubt. Leave her stay where she is. Close the book. Finis.
Killaine...
The best interference runner we've got. He thinks he's in love with youand he's a gentleman. Come here, baby.
You'll be safe here. I won't be long. Help yourself to anything you want. The galley's through there. You can make coffee if you like.
This must have cost a fortune.
It did, but it never paid off until now. I ought to be back within an hour. We can't leave until near dark anyway.
Do you have to leave the note?
It's the frame on the picture. But not if you say so.
I'd still go througheven if I ended up in jail.
You wouldn't like it. I've been there.
My father died in jail, and he was twice the man I am.
Well?
You leave it.
Killaine's wise. We can't wait any longer. Here, put this on. But stay out of sight until we clear the harbor. I'll tell you when.
Killaine's wise to what?
See anything?
I can still see the shoreline. The moon is rising.
There would be a moon tonight.
Cold?
Frozen.
Go down into the cabin and get yourself a drink. Careful how you go, we're hitting the swell now.
I decided I didn't want a drink...I'm beginning to wonder.
Wonder what?
If you're doing all this just for me.
That, and the fun of it.
I thought you had to be back to the hotel. To leave mymy note.
That's right.
Funny, I never thought of you that way. You were so close too. We were all pretty stupid about you.
Including Killaine.
Including Killaine...I still can't think of you that way.
I told you my father died in jail. He stole a fortune. Most of it pretty dirty money. I don't care to have that known.
Larry Mitchell found out. So you killed him.
In a way.
If it was an accident, you could have told the truth.
So could you. But our records were a little against us.
What your father did doesn't condemn you.
Nobody believed I wasn't in on it. I was just a dumbsmart collage boy, and he was my father. I thought it was a legitimate business. He was a politician, with fingers in a lot of pies. I never saw the pies. They had names. For the record. Innocent names. You know where that kind of money comes from, don't you?
The money that makes you Mr. Clark Brandon. Let's you live in a penthouse, on top of the Vancouver Royal. Lets you own a cruiser. Lets you do as you please, go where you please. You big, openhanded, generous guy. That's the kind of money it takes, isn't it?
It buys things, just like any other kind.
That man that was following us last nighthe didn't come back this morning. I'm beginning to wonder about him, too. Was he really following meor you?
No. I paid him off.
He'll come back...They always come back when you give them money.
Not this one. And not Mitchell.
Youkilledhim?
Magruder obliged me. No use my saying it wasn't planned that way. I had to clean up. I'm not a dumb smart college boy anymore. Nobody in the world would believe I didn't plan the whole thing.
I guess I'm a little screwy. Maybe I could believe it. Should I try?
Don't go soft on me, baby. I've got your note in my pocket. You wrote it, all by your own self. And I have to use it. It has to be found in exactly the right place.
So that I will never be found.
You'll never make it. You've out smarted yourself.
I'm still on course to Victoria. Nobody saw you get on board, nobody seen you since.
It wasn't the time or place. Don't worry about the note, baby. I'm playing for my neck now.
And I'm begging for my lifeand yours.
Mine?
Yes. Yours. You haven't murdered anybody. You killed Mitchell. Wasn't that an accident? It must have been. If you kill a blackmailer, you kill him deadso that he can't talk anymore.
Mitchell was dead enough.
And that nasty man that followed us last night. You didn't kill him.
Who'd believe it but you? I took him out to sea and threw him in the water. Even if they find him, what connects him with me?
Magruder does.
You think Magruder wants to hang beside me?
But the next one is murder. First the little step, then the longer step , and then the step you can never take back. You could tell about Mitchell. You could tell about Magruderand the detective. It would hurt, but you could do it. You could never tell about me.
Would I want to?
Every day of your life you'll want me. You'll never get over it. Every time you see your face in the mirror
Shut up! Cut it out! Even if I have to kill both of us
This is it, Betty. They'll find us again, fog or no fog.
If it has to bedo you mind if I do it myself? Oh, I don't mean with the gun. This is no trick. When I wrote that note you have in your pocket that was no trick either. It's not so hard for me as you think. I'm not crying about it, I've been skating close to it for quite some time. The water is cold down there But so is everything else. And there's you.
Me?
Yes. You. You're not really a murderer yet.
I think you mean that.
Do you think I was faking?
If I didI don'tnow.
Good morning. Can I do something for you?
I'm Miss Mayfield. Is Mr. Campbell here?
I'm Mr. Campbell, Miss Mayfield. Purely as a matter of routine, I want to ask the name of your bank.
Bank?
Merely for our records, Miss Mayfield. It's usual for the guests who come here for the first time.
I'm carrying quite a large sum in Travelers checks. How much of a deposit would you like?
Good evening, Miss.
How soon can I get a plane to Seattle?
I'm afraid there's nothing more tonight, Miss. Unless you charter a plane.
How long would that take?
Well... they have to service the plane... and get a pilot down to the field, unless there's one hanging around there still... and then they have to get the immigration officer...
Immigration Officer?
Crossing the border this time of night they're a bit particular. You'd have to prove your identity, you know... unless you've got a passport. They might even want to know why you're in such a hurry. Otherwise they might think...
They might think I was running away from something.
Possibly, Miss.
No thanks, I've seen Seattle.
My name's Larry Mitchell. I live in Vancouver.
Same as an hour ago. Remember? I'm the steady type.
I'm afraid there's nothing I can do about it, Mr. Mitchell.
You could tell me your name. And where you're going.
How far does this train go?
Vancouver, B.C.
I'm going to Vancouver, Mr. Mitchell.
Or Reno? They always throw them off the bridge there, I've heard.
Perhaps I don't take it so lightly.
Where are you staying in Vancouver Royal. It's pretty crowded you know.
Is it? I expected to go to the Vancouver Royal. Should I have a reservation?
I'll make one for you. I live there.
Well..
A very small service. It doesn't even ask for thanks. How long for?
I really don't know.
Indefinitely?
I don't know.
You don't know.
Nice room. Balcony and everything. Lovely view too.
Very nice Mitchell turns.
No thanks?
Thank you.
Suppose I hadn't known that immigration inspector? Hadn't put in a good word for you?
I'm supposing.
I think you're a nice girl. I like you. But I can read signs if the print is large enough. It was your manner more than the wedding ring that bothered the inspector. A sort of tenseness, as if you were afraid of something.
I have a darned good idea you're name isn't Betty Mayfield at all.
Yes?
How about taking to Uncle Larry into the old firm? He's a useful guy to have on your side.
BETTY +++$+++
Don't get me wrong, Betty. I'm not suggesting you murdered anybody, you know.
Dine and dance tonight? I've got fifty bucks to throw away.
Not tonight.
What's the matter?
I'm not in the mood for dining and dancing.
We have some nice places around Vancouver.
I'm sure you have.
Well, how about a breeze up to the penthouse about six o'clock? A friend of mine is throwing a cocktail party up there.
I haven't been invited.
Nobody gets invited to Clark Brandon's parties. They just go.
Perhaps I'd better get you straightened out, Mr. Mitchell. You've been rather nice to me, in a couple of ways. And I'm grateful. But I don't think this entitles you to put me on a leash.
Nobody I'd rather have on a leash.
The brushoff, huh?
I'm trying very hard to be polite about it.
Don't I even get my face slapped?
Would you mind?
Okay. You win.
If you change your mind about the cocktail party, or anything else, give me a buzz.
If I change my mind.
Betty, this is Margo West. She wants to meet you. Miss Mayfield.
How do you do?
I think I'd like to dance.
Why certainly, baby.
Please be a little more careful how you talk, Mr. Mitchell.
How careful should I be?
I don't like being referred to as babe, or addressed as baby. I don't like your possessive attitude, nor your hints of secret knowledge. In fact, to be very frank, Mr. Mitchell, I don't think I like you.
Maybe you're going to have to like me.
I think you're drunk.
Just drunk enough.
What's the matter, baby? Don't you like being kissed?
Next time you try that, Mr. Mitchell... ..don't. I'm warning you.
You wanted to see me sir?
Jackson, looks like you got Elias' squad now.
Squad? I didn't know we was still referring to this platoon in terms of squads sir.
These two holes are yours...
Begging your pardon Lieutenant but my holes are far enuff apart you could run a regiment through there and nobody'd see them  I got five live bodies left...
I don't want to hear your problems, Jackson. You'll get new men any day. Time being you make do like everybody else.
Hey Lieutenant I didn't ask for this job, I...
I don't want to hear about it Jackson.
You don't want to hear about it?
That's right. I don't want to hear about it 'cause to tell you the truth, I don't give a shit okay... I just don't give a shit anymore.
Right...
This is one time we could sure use Elias.
And Baaaaaaa! back on you.
If you're gonna do it man, 'least do it right.
I didn't like it.
Bah, you're a child, Lerner. Rhah don't waste time on you.
Tennessee someplace. Hill country.
Barnes took a bullet right there. At Ia Drang Valley... And the cocksucker SURVIVED  that's BAAAD man. That's his high, baby. High on WAR!
Well he ain't normal that's fo sure.
That's what he is... Baaaa!
I was home on leave y'know and everybody's just worried 'bout making money, everybody's out for themselves, they don't even want to talk about it man, it's like the fucking Twilight Zone back there  you wouldn't even KNOW there's a war on here. My sister says to me why you have to go there like I started this...
Baaaa! Fuck it, they sold us out  so what! What'd you'all expect? Civilian life is phoney BULLSHIT man. They're ROBOTS man  watchin' dopey television and drivin' dopey cars, and they fuck up, nobody dies. That's all right, you keep fuckin' up, politicians keep lyin'. Cause it don't really matter. Don't mean shit. So what! Whatcha want  a parade! Fuck that too! No war time no grunt never got no respect. Till he was dead  and even THEN! You're fighting for YOURSELF man! You're fighting for your SOUL, dat's all. Remember dat. And it's some goddamn battle too  if you'se a man, wrestle with that angel... ...Love and Hate  the whole shitbang show, that's the story then and now and it ain't hardly gonna change...
Whatcha doing in the underworld Taylor?
This ain't Taylor. Taylor been shot. This man Chris been resurrected...
Merle?
Merle? Jesus!... Patty?
Whew!  where that come from?
Found it. Growing in a garden.
Sheeit, beats burning hutches anyway...
I know Barnes six months and I'll tell ya something  that man is MEAN, red in his soul like a dick on a dog.
Barnes gets killed, his jaws'd go on clacking...
He done a year in Japan in the hospital, then when he gets out, the first thing he done is reup. Four years he been in the field...
...and you know how many times he done been shot? Seven times! Seven.
The Good Lord works his revenge in strange ways.
Yeah, you done said it. Revenge on US.
Not the only man to meet his Jezebel either.
So he got a reduced and come over here. Nam's his freedom man, Nam's his pussy. Three years he been here.
Then you jes gonna forget 'bout Elias and all the good times we done had? Right in here.
He dugged his own grave.
Right on.
I remember first time you came in here Taylor you telling me how much you admired that bastard.
Tell Six we need engineers here, this pos. is crawling with traps.
They're on their way... There's a gook village half a klik downriver, Battalion wants us to move in and search it ASAP, something's going on... where's Barnes?
Alright, Six says torch this place! Blow the weapons in place. Round up all suspected Vee Cees and shake it up! We ain't got much light left.
Why the fuck didn't you do something Lieutenant!
What are you talking about!
You know what I'm talking about!
No I don't. I don't know what the fuck you're talking about, Elias!
Sounds pretty far out to me 'Lias.
Maybe but I seen it happen at Ia Drang in '66, First Cavalry and they cut us to fuckin' pieces! Give me three men, if I'm wrong, I can still roll up that flank.
Shit! Morehouse and Sal are short. Fu Sheng's going on R&R, you don't want to send their asses out on an ambush. You got the fresh meat Elias.
They don't know shit Barnes, and chances are we gonna run into something.
So what am I going to do! Get one of my guys zapped so some fuckface fresh from the World can get his beauty fucking sleep!
Hey O'Neill why don't you cool it, you don't have to be a prick everyday of your life, you know.
Fuck you Elias.
Excuses are like assholes, Taylor  everybody got one.
Knock it off! We got two men need attention here. Police up your extra ammo and frags, don't leave nothing for the dinks. Hoyt, Junior, carry Gardner.
...Motherfuckah, motherfuckah, I'm too short to be dealing with this shit! They keep fucking with us man, no letup...
Politics man, fuckin' politics. That O'Neill man got his nose so far up Top's ass he gotta be Pinocchio...
Fortytwo days man and a wakeup and I'm a gone motherfucker. Back to de WORLD.
Broke a 100. Got 92 to go. April 17. DEROS man. California this summer. Waves are good they tell me, surfin's gonna be good...
March man in Tennessee, sniff the pines... sniff that crossmounted pussy walkin' down by the river. What you got Taylor? Let's see three hundred and WHAT?
You volunteered for this shit man?
You a crazy fucker, givin' up college man.
What we got here a crusader?
Sounds like it.
Okay  got light duty, three days.
Shit, too bad we in base camp anyway.
What you got there  beers?
Yeah, just stole me some from the Top's supply but he's stealing it from us anyway. Chucks are coming. You better 'didi' man.
How the fuck you get over here man, you look like you educated...
I volunteered.
You WHAT? Say 'gain.
Yeah, I dropped out of college and told 'em I wanted infantry, combat, and Nam...
You okay man? Neck botherin' you?
Nah...
Here have some of this. Won't feel a thing.
No, thanks...
Go on, whatcha gotta lose, yo' here now...
...you know that night we got hit... I...
Fuck it, don't mean nothing, no such thing here as a coward, done your best man, next time y'do better.
Yo getting there Taylor. You be cool now and I'll introduce you 'round to some of the 'heads'.
What are the heads?
Later...
Three years, Jesus, he's crazy as Barnes...
Well sometimes a man jes don' wanna go back. How you gonna talk to civilians man? People back in the world just don't give a shit, y'know what I mean, to them you're a fuckin' animal is all 
Must be somebody?
...there's nobody.
You been smoking too much shit babe. Gotta control that. Takes a man down... I remember when you first come out to the bush, you was straight as a...
Who gives a shit!
'People say I'm the life of the party cause I tell a joke or two although I may be laughing loud and hardy deep inside I'm blue...'
Y'ever get caught in a mistake King and you just can't get out of it?
Way out of anything, man. Just keep your pecker up, your powder dry, the worm WILL turn. How many days you short?
Not just me... it's the way the whole thing works. People like Elias get wasted and people like Barnes just go on making up rules any way they want and what do we do, we just sit around in the middle and suck on it! We just don't add up to dry shit.
Does a chicken have lips? Whoever said we did, babe. Make it outta here, it's all gravy, every day of the rest of your life man  gravy. Oh shit, superlifer!
Hey that's great King, that's great... you take it on home for me, you tell 'em King... got your address right? You know where you can reach men, man. Anytime!
I gotta didi man. Don't wanna miss that chopper. I'll send you a postcard. After I get me some. I'll send you some tapes too man. This new guy Jimi Hendrix man, whew... you okay Taylor? Just 'member take it easy now, don't think too much, don't be a fool, no such thing as a coward cause it don't mean nuthin. Jes keep on keepin' on. Okay my man...
First time?
Yeah.
Then the worm has definately turned for you man.
Feel good?
Yeah. No pain in my neck now. Feels good.
Feelin' good's good enough.
...But what'd she do?
What didn't she do. She fucked the living shit outta me, that's what she did!
But what'd she actually do?
She was a crossbreed, Chinese and Polish.
Dawn! That was it!
Dawn...
...I can't sleep, why don't you get some sack time.
...don't feel like it either.
...beautiful night.
Yeah. I love this place at night. The stars... there's no right or wrong in them, they're just there.
That's a nice way of putting it.
Barnes got it in for you, don't he?
Barnes believes in what he's doing.
And you, do you believe?
In '65  yeah. Now... No. What happened today's just the beginning. We're gonna lose this war...
You really think so... us?
Oh shit! Sometimes there's things in my head... man. Grass does that to me, fucks me all up like a crazy Indian...
Do you believe that stuff about... knowing you're gonna die?
Yeah, those are the guys that live. I really don't think Death gives a shit, it's like a giant garbage can, I think it takes whatever it can get... you never know where it's gonna come from anyway... so why spin your wheels?
I'll go with you.
No... I move faster alone.
La Dai! La Dai! GET THE FUCK OUTTA THERE!
Hey take it easy man. They're scared.
They're scared? What about me! I'm sick of this shit man, I'm sick of this shit! They don't want us here! Who do you think they're fighting for! GET OUTTA THERE!
Where's Lerner?
Out there man  behind the log.
Come on man!
No!
Hey Taylor, you okay man?
Yeah. How 'bout you?
Jes' fine man, jes fine! Ain't never felt better! Both of us two timers man, we're out. See you at the hospital man, we gonna get highhigh yessir...
You lame Taylor?
What?
You lame or something?
Where's he from?
Barnes comes from Hell.
Does he have a metal plate in his head?
You mean he's crazy? No more crazy'n the rest of us been out in the bush too long.
Baaa, got no time to go to the movies. Love and Hate too busy fighting for possession of my soul.
Where's Elias come from?
'Lias come naturally.
Taylor  get your ass over here. Move!
Hang tough, Gator. Hang in there, man, you're gonna be OK... just hang on.
Yeah! I got two of them fuckers...
I got one...
...See them go down? Like fuckin' target practice man, fuck you Charlie!! Ho Chi Minh sucks dead dick!... Crawford!
Shit boy you been out in the sun too long. You try that, he'll stick it right back up your ass with a candle on it.
Then what do you suggest big shot?
I suggest you watch your own asses cause Barnes gonna be down on ALL OF 'EM.
Fuck this shit!
You guys trying to cure the headache by cutting off the head. 'Lias didn't ask you to fight his battles and if there's a Heaven  and god, I hope so  I know he's sitting up there drunk as a fuckin' monkey and smokin' shit cause HIS PAINS HE DONE LEFT DOWN HERE. Baaaaaaaaa!
You're wrong man! Any way you cut it Rhah, Barnes is a murderer.
I was wrong.
Wrong? You ain't EVER been right  'bout nothing. And dig this you assholes and dig it good! Barnes been shot 7 times and he ain't dead, that tell you something? Barnes ain't meant to die. Only thing can get Barnes... is Barnes!
Taylor! Francis!
Over here!
Rhah! What's going on. Rodriguez's hole just got...
Okay, here it is  one, we got gooks in the fuckin' perimeter.
Listen to that shit, that's good shit!
Fuck that redneck noise, dude. All dem chicks be rappin' how dey losin' der' ho's and how dey ain't got no bread for beer. Fuck dat honky shit. Got to get me some motown jams, dig it?
Whaddaya talking shit for man. Hey Junior! Y'ever smoke any shit?
Das right dude. You be tryin' to string de black man out on dat shit and keep him DOWN. Time's be coming, my man, when de black man's gonna throw off that yoke.
Say I can dig it. Smoke that shit everything kinda gets weird y'know? Y'hear that story the gooks is putting chemicals in the grass so's we become 'pacifists' so's we don fight Where the hell's everybody, they'se gettin high that's what  bunch of hopheads, they think they special...
Don you worry Bunny, youse a killer anyway.
Yeah but I still like a piece of pussy once in a while  ain't nothing like a piece of pussy cept maybe the Indie 500.
Youse so fucked up man.
Y'ever look at yoself in the mirror Junior, youse uglier than a dick on a dog man.
Yeah, you had a piece of pussy on a plate in front of you, you'd probably kill it.
Shit, I bet I been laid more'n you have.
Sure, you probably stick it in tween her knees and think youse there.
Yeah?
Only way you'd get some pussy is your bitch dies and wills it to you  and then maybe.
Come on you can do better than that!
Fuck this shit! I ain't dyin' in no white man's war! Ise didiing this motherfuckah!
Hey Big Harold, gimme your peaches for the fruitcake man.
Fuck you bitch.
C'mon man, didn't I do you right that time I give you the turkey loaf for the ham and lima beans shit.
Tricky bitch, reason you gimme dat turkey loaf is nobody else can eat that shit 'cept me so don't start your game playing with me Junior.
Youse a pig man. I hope Manny get dat laundry gig for' you do.
De fool think he's gonna get it but he ain't known for his thinking.
He's a fool alright but you a bigger fool. Hey, whiteboy, watcha waiting for  dat hole ain't gonna dig itself...
Hey Taylor, you don't know it but I saved your ass today. I killed a shiteating dog.
That reminds me, I gotta take a shit.
You gonna wipe your ass dis time?
Yeah if you let me have your shirt.
Don babytalk him man. Cocksucker fell asleep. They walked right up on us, he don do shit.
Shaddup bitch.
We got boocoo movement. 3rd Battalion just got hit 15 kliks north of here.
Yeah, they had claymores strung up in the trees, blew a whole fucking platoon to pieces. BAAD SHIT.
So what's the problem?
Says he can't walk.
Shit. Get your boots on Martin, next time I catch you putting mosquito repellent on your fuckin' feet I'm gonna courtmartial your nigger ass.
Sarge?
Yeah that long hairy orange and black bastard I found in the ammo crate. I'm gonna put it in this asshole's crotch, see if he can walk.
Uh... Bob. Like to speak to you. Take a minute.
Yeah, what is it?
Bob, I got Elias' R&R... It's coming up in 3 days. Going to Hawaii. See Patsy. I never asked you for a break, I was hoping you... you'd send me in on the chopper with King... what do you say Chief?
I can't do that for you, Red... We need every swinging dick in the field. Sorry bout that...
Hey Bob, come on! Talk to me hunh, it's your friend Red, I'm only asking you for three days chief...
I'm talking to you Red and I'm telling you no. Get back to your position.
Bob, I gotta bad feeling about this, I... I'm telling you I got a bad feeling, man, I don't think I'm gonna make it... y'know what I mean?
...everybody gotta die sometime Red... Get back to your foxhole.
Elias  you take your squad and I'll take Tex and Francis from your squad. We move out in twozero mikes.
I thought it was O'Neill's turn tonight.
Blood trail just keeps going and going but no body.
How the hell did he get away?
Fuckers returned fire soon as we lit 'em up. Hard core fuckin' NVA. They got their shit together.
WHAT THE FUCK YOU DOING!
Stay out of this Elias. This ain't your show.
YOU AIN'T A FIRING SQUAD, YOU PIECE OF SHIT!!
You're dead, you're fucking dead Elias!
YOU  you're going to fuckin' jail, buddy, you ain't getting away with this one!!!!!
Where the fuck is red platoon! Tell 'em to get their asses up here! What the fuck you doin' back here Elias? Round up your assholes and move 'em up front, we're getting chopped to shit.
Barnes, listen to me... there's 56 spiderholes back there next to the church. Third Platoon's coming up the stream to reinforce us. Flank's wide open, dinks get 34 snipers in these holes, when Third Platoon comes up, they'll get us in a crossfire with 'em. We'll shoot each other to shit, then they'll hit us with everything they got. It'll be a massacre!
...You keep pouring out that suppressing fire, Barnes. I don't wanna be caught out there with my ass hanging out you hear me?
Don't tell me how to fight this fucking war, 'Lias, you go crying to fucking brigade on your time. Out here you belong to me. Now move.
Bunker...
Where?
...but 'Lias is still out there.
I'll get him. You get the man in, Taylor NOW. Or I'll Article 15 both your asses. Move!
Elias is dead. Join up with the platoon. Move it.
He's dead! Where?... You saw him?
Yeah. Back about 100 metres. He's dead, now get going, the gooks are all over the fuckin' place.
I SHIT on all o' you.
KILL YOU MOTHERFUCKER!!!
He's moving his fingers!
Of course. He saw you moving yours.
But perhaps he understood 
Wouldn't it more properly be done in your office?
Yes, Sir.
Dr. Zira  you state here that a ship from outer space sank in an inland sea of our eastern desert.
I do not state it, sir. The prisoner does.
Do you believe him?
Like you, I find it difficult.
But how convenient that the proof of his arrival has vanished? You also state that Bright Eyes had two intelligent companions at the time of his capture.
This is his assertion.
Where are they now?
How sad. Stuffed and mounted, eh? Dead men, like sunken ships, can tell no stories. And his other companion?
He doesn't know.
Mr. President, I believe the Prosecutor has reassembled all he surviving humans captured in the hunt along with Bright Eyes.
Let them talk, Mr President. Let them talk.
Sirs: our theories have a bearing on his identity.
Secondly, if these 'tools' as you call them, are unidentified, why are they introduced as 'evidence' of anything?
But there's the doll, sir.
What?
But suppose you find nothing but a wasteland. How will you survive?
He won't survive. Do you know what sort of life awaits you out there, Taylor? That of an animal. If you aren't eventually hunted down and killed by apes, some jungle beast will devour you.
But the proof? The doll?
In a few minutes there will be no doll. There can't be. I'm sorry.
Well, Bright Eyes, is our throat feeling better?
Listen, listen  I can speak 
Speak! Go on. Speak again.
My  name  isn't  Bright Eyes It's Taylor!
There! Can you believe it? I looks like he's talking.
I'm not acting! I can talk! How much proof do you want?
Dr. Zaius, I could have sworn he was answering you!
Where have you been? Why didn't you come to see me?
Shhhh!
What is this?
A hearing.
It's him...Landon.
Which one?
Second from the left.
You! ... You knew about this?
No, I swear  I never saw this man before.
You did this to him! You've removed his frontal lobes!
Listen
Taylor  just keep quiet and we may get away with this. Remember that men all look alike to most apes.
Cornelius and I have been indicted for heresy. Unless we can prove our theories, we don't stand a chance of acquittal.
You're going back to the Forbidden Zone?
Are you going to take her with you?
Yes.
Actually, you're a different breed. This creature will never evolve.
Maybe not.
You want her that much?
You threw us together, remember? And you guessed right. Men, like apes, get despondent without a mate.
What's the diagnosis, doctor? A touch of the sun?
She's not sick at all. She's pregnant.
And that's your Minister of Science. Honor bound to expand the frontiers of knowledge.
Taylor, please 
Except that he's also the Chief Defender of the Faith.
Taylor! Tell him.
He has a point. On my planet children often play with ape dolls.
Then tell them Dr. Zaius won't leave here alive.
Taylor, you can't.
Taylor, please  don't treat him that way.
Why not?
It's humiliating.
Wasn't I humiliated? By all of you? Didn't you lead me around on a leash?
Would you like to come along?
We can't.
It's better than going to prison for heresy.
Dr. Zira, I'd like to kiss you goodbye.
All right, but.... ...you're so damned ugly!
Go with God, Taylor. That's an old expression. it comes from both ape and man.
God bless you.
Well...do you acknowledge kinship with any of these creatures?
With one of them.
Identify him, then. Speak to him.
What about me?
Oh, your case was preordained. In a way, you performed a service for the State ... Because your hearing made it possible for us to expose Zira and Cornelius. And now the Tribunal has placed you in my custody for...final disposition. Do you know what that means?
No.
Emasculation, to begin with. Then experimental surgery. On the speech centers. On the brain. Ultimately, a kind of living death.
However, it's within my power to grant You a reprieve. That is why I summoned you here tonight. Tell me who and what you really are and where you come from, and no veterinary will touch you.
I told the truth at that 'hearing'of yours.
You lied. Where is your tribe?
My tribe, as you call it, lives on another planet in a distant solar system.
Then how is it we speak the same language? Even in your lies, some truth slips through! That mythical community you're supposed to come from  Fort Wayne'?
What about it?
A fort! Unconsciously, you chose a name that was belligerent. Where were you nurtured?
I take it you don't believe the prosecutor's charge  that I'm a monster created by Dr. Zira.
Certainly not. You're a mutant.
That's exactly what Zira and Cornelius claim. You're talking heresy, doctor.
Of course.
All right, suppose I am a mutant? Why does the appearance of one mutant send you into a panic?
Because you're not unique. There was the one you call Landon 
Then you admit 
I admit that where there's one mutant there's probably another. And another. A nest of them. Where's your nest, Taylor? Where are your women?
Thank you for calling me Taylor. Dr. Zaius, I know who I am. Who are you? How did this upside down civilization ever get started?
You may well call it upside down, since you occupy its lowest level. And deservedly. The eastern desert has never been explored  because we've always assumed that no life can exist there. Save yourself, Taylor. Tell me  is there another jungle beyond the Forbidden Zone?
I don't know.
If you are protecting others of your kind, it will cost you your identity.
I'm not protecting anybody! That hearing was a farce. What have I done?
You're a menace! A walking pestilence. I do know who you are, Taylor. As I know that others of your kind must live in the Forbidden Zone. You have just six hours to make a full confession. After that I'll employ surgery to obtain one. Guards!
Stop right there.
Don't be a fool. You're outnumbered and outgunned.
There is no contradiction between faith and science. True science.
All right, let's see if you're willing to put that statement to a test.
What is your proposal?
When were the Sacred Scrolls written?
Twelve hundred years ago.
Very well. If Zira and Cornelius can prove that those scrolls don't tell the whole truth of your history; if they can show you definite evidence of another culture from an unrecorded past  will you exonerate them?
Of course.
Okay.Up to the cave.
I don't say he was a man like an Earthman, but I'd call him a close relative, for he was plagued by most of man's ills. Yet, fragile as he was, he came before you  and was superior to you.
That's lunacy. I can give an alternate description for everyone of those objects that's equally as inventive as yours. But it would be conjecture, not proof.
Tell him to pull back!
Cease fire! Withdraw!
Then answer this: If ran was superior, why didn't he survive?
He might have been wiped out by a plague. Natural catastrophe. Like a fiery storm of meteors. From the looks of this part of your planet, I'd say that was a fair bet.
Then there is another jungle?
Of course, you could return with us. Our society might find a place for you and your mate.
Sure. In a cage.
Where else, but in a cage, does man belong?
No, thanks. I'll take freedom.
Why? From the first, I've terrified you, Doctor. And in spite of every sign that I'm an intelligent being who means no harm, you continue to hate and fear me. Why?
Because you are a man. And you were right  I have always known about man. From the evidence, I believe his wisdom must walk hand in hand with his idiocy. His emotions must rule his brain. He must be a warlike animal who gives battle to everything around him  even himself.
What evidence? No weapons were found in the cave.
The Forbidden Zone was once a paradise. Your breed made a desert of it, ages ago.
We're back at the beginning. I still don't know the why. A planet where apes evolved from men. A world turned wrong side up. A puzzle with one piece missing.
Don't look for it, Taylor. You may not like what you find.
Let it be clear at the outset that all matters pertaining to this inquiry are confidential, and anyone discussing them outside this chamber will be held in contempt of the Tribunal. You may proceed, Dr. Honorius.
By your leave, Mr. President  the Tribunal has not yet defined the purpose of this inquiry.
Sustained. In all fairness, Dr. Zira, you must admit the accused is a nonape, and therefore has no rights under ape law.
Then why is he called the accused Your Honors must think him guilty of something.
Thats a lie!
Mind your tongue, madame.
Did we create his mind too? Not only can this man speak. He can write. He can reason.
Since the defendant is forbidden to speak in his own defense, he asks that this statement be read into the record.
Read it yourself.
'I have come to you from a planet in a different solar system. I am an explorer in space, with no hostile intentions against your civilization. On my planet it was the primate Man who evolved Into a thinking animal, while the apes remained..."
Stop right there. Bring me that paper.
This is a joke in very poor taste.
Is it a joke to seek the truth about this man?
How so?
Let us assume, as common sense dictates, that the prisoner's story is false. But if he does not come from another planet, then surely he sprang from our own. Yes, sprang. As an animal psychologist, I have found no physiological defect to explain why humans are mute.
Sustained.
Sustain all objections, but face the truth!
Dr. Zira  tell Bright Eyes to sit down.
My name is Taylor.
It says here that his name is Bright Eyes. You gave him that name yourself.
This hearing is absurd! Let me tell my story...
Bailiff! Make the animal be quiet.
One is in a museum!
Dr. Zira! Silence that man!
You destroyed his memory! His mind! His identity! And, you want to do the same to me!
Bailiff! Stop this outburst! Gag that monstrosity!
What is that?
A man, Dr. Maximus.
I know it's a man. And you know the rules. No animals outside the compound, and most certainly not without a leash.
Yes, Sir. But this  creature is a special case.
Why special?
We're  conducting a new experiment.
You asked for the opportunity to present your case. Surely you must know why you're here.
My own purpose is to save this exceptional creature from mutilation.
And our purpose is to settle custodial and jurisdictional questions concerning this beast, and determine what's to be done with him.
At the very least, this man has the right to know whether there's a charge against him.
I told you not to bring the other one.
He wouldn't leave her.
All right... Get in...hurry. Put this on.
Gorilla hunters ...
Keep moving. We can't turn back now.
Who put them up?
The Hunt Club.
To scare off humans?
Who are you?
So you can talk. I'm Dr. Zira's nephew. This abduction was her idea. You're not really going to the zoo. That's just our cover story in case we're stopped. Although I do feel that if it ever came down to a question of whether something like you should be public or private property 
Come on. Get me out of here.
She comes along too.
Zira doesn't want your female.
I want her.
If you insist. But I'm not taking any orders 
Fine. Just let her out.
Shouldn't we be moving on?
I'm for that.
Why did you do that? Scrape off your hair?
In my world  before I left it  only youngsters of your age wore un scraped hair.
Sorry, Lucius. You'll have to stay here and guard the horses.
Always giving orders. Just like every other adult.
Relax. You'll see it all later.
Not everything. They left a hostage. How do you feel, Lucius?
Disillusioned... But vindicated! I've been right all along. You can't trust the older generation. It's a matter of values 
All right, all right. Will You do me a favor? No orders.
What is it?
I want you to go around the bend and tell those gorillas their leader is my prisoner.
Yes, I can do that.
They think you're behaving foolishly. I must say I agree. Where will you go?
I'll start by following the shoreline. And my nose.
Lucius.
I think you're making a mistake.
That's the boy. Keep 'em flying.
What?
The flags of discontent. It's the only way anything ever gets changed. Don't try to follow us. I'm pretty handy with things like this.
Landon! Send a last signal.
What signal?
To Earth! That we've landed!
It's no use ... there she goes.
Forget it. Abandon ship.
Gone.
We're here to stay.
Well? Where are we? Have any notion, skipper?
We're some three hundred and twenty light years from Earth. On an unnamed planet in orbit around a star in the constellation of Orion. That could be Bellatrix.
Landon! Join the expedition.
Sorry... I was thinking of Stewart. What d'you suppose happened?
Air leak. Died in her sleep.
You don't seem very cut up about it.
It's a little late for a wake. She's been dead nearly a year.
Then we've been away from Earth for eighteen months.
By our time. You've turned gray.
Apart from that, you look pretty chipper for a man who's two thousand and thirty one years old. I read the clocks. They bear out Hasslein's hypothesis. We've been away from Earth for two thousand years, give or take a decade. Still can't accept it, huh?
long pause) You know it.
Because time has wiped out everyone and everything you cared for  they're dust.
Prove it. If we can't get back, it's still just a theory.
It's a fact, Landon. Buy it. You'll sleep better.
If only we could get a fix.
What would you learn? I've told you where you are and when you are.
All right 
There's only one reality left. We're here and it's now. You get ahold of that and hang on tight, or you might as well be dead.
I'm prepared to die.
Straighten me out on something. Why did you come along at all? You volunteered. Why? I'll tell you. They nominated you for the Big One and you couldn't turn it down. Not without losing your AllAmerican standing
Climb off me, will you!
And the glory, don't forget that. There's a lifesized bronze statue of you somewhere. It's probably turned green by now, and nobody can read the name plate. But never let it be said we forget our heroes.
Taylor. I'm telling you 
Oh, and one last item. Immortality. You wanted to go on forever. Well, you damn near made it. Except for Dodge and me, you've lived longer than anybody. And with Stewart dead, it looks like we're the last of the strain. You got what you wanted, kid. How does it taste?
Okay. You read me well enough. Why can't I read you?
Don't bother
Dodge ... he's not like me at all. But he makes sense. Held walk naked into a live volcano if he thought he could learn something no other man knew. I understand why he's here. But you...You're no seeker. You're negative.
But I'm not prepared to die.
I'd like to know why not. You thought life on Earth was meaningless. You despised people. So what did you do? You ran away.
Scarecrows?
Let's take a look.
Can we take a dip?
Okay.
No cigar.
Try telling them our names.
We got off at the wrong stop.
You're our optimist Look at the bright side. If that's the best there is around here, in six months we'll be running this planet.
Good morning, Dr. Zira.
Good morning, Julius. How's our patient today?
No change. The minute you open the door, he goes into his act.
You could get hurt doing that, Doctor.
Don't be silly. He's perfectly tame.
Awww, it still hurts, doesn't it?
See? He keeps pretending he can talk.
Did you see that? It's remarkable!
Huh?
He's trying to form words.
Well, you know what they say. Human see, human do.
What happened?
Those fools and their torches! Do you have any ointment?
I'll see.
Get me a collar and leash. I'm taking him to the infirmary.
He's vicious, Doctor. Besides, it's against the rules.
Do as I say.
Tell the court, Bright Eyes  what is the second Article of Faith?
I admit, I know nothing of your culture.
Of course he doesn't know our culture  because he cannot think. Tell us why all apes are created equal.
Some apes, it seems, are more equal than others.
Ridiculous. That answer is a contradiction in terms. Tell us, Bright Eyes, why do men have no souls? What is the proof that a divine spark exists in the simian brain?
Show this to the President.
Objection. The accused is indeed a man. Therefore, he has no rights under ape law.
Well, Dr. Zira? This is a man, is he not?
State your case, Mr. Prosecutor.
Learned Judges: My case is simple. It is based on our first Article of Faith: that the Almighty created the ape in his own image; that He gave him a soul and a mind; that He set him apart from the beasts of the jungle, and made him the lord of the planet.
There is a conspiracy afoot to undermine the very cornerstone of our Faith
Come to the point, Dr. Honorius.
Directly, Mr. President. This wretched man, the accused, is only a pawn in the conspiracy. We know that he was wounded in the throat at the time of his capture. The State charges that Dr. Zira and a corrupt surgeon named Galen experimented on this wounded animal, tampering with his brain and throat tissues to create a speaking monster ...
He can reason? With the Tribunal's permission, let me expose this hoax by direct examination.
Proceed. But don't turn this hearing into a farce.
That's true, Dr. Zaius. My witnesses  correction  my exhibits are on display in the amphitheater.
Very well. I suggest we go and look at them.
Objection! These remarks are profane and irrelevant.
Sustained. Your archeological theories have no bearing on the disposition of this creature.
Objection!
Sustained.
Yes, sir. The State charges Doctors Zira and Cornelius with contempt of this Tribunal, malicious mischief and scientific heresy.
Be it so ordered. The Tribunal will examine all the evidence presented here and in due time render a verdict on the proposed indictment and on the disposition of the deviate in question. This hearing is adjourned.
Which one was wearing the strange clothes?
Him.
Will he live?
I don't know. This beast lost a lot of blood.
This place is dirty, doctor.
These animals are dirty, doctor. They stink, and they carry communicable diseases. Why aren't they cleaned up before they're brought here?
But the quota system's been abolished! You made it. Why can't I?
What do you mean, made it? I'm an animal psychologist, that's all. We don't have any authority.
You do pretty well when it comes to getting space and equipment.
That's because Dr. Zaius realizes our work has value.
Hmph.
The foundations of scientific brain surgery are being laid right here  in studies of cerebral function in these animals.
They're still dirty. And their bite is septic. Look at that ...
Got your sensors?
Yo!
Geiger counter?
Yo!
One pistol... twentyfour rounds of ammo. two medical kits.. one camera... one TX9. We've enough food and water for three days.
But how long is a day?
Good question. Landon  check your communications kit.
Nothing will grow here .... there's just a trace of hydrocarbons, and most of the nitrogen is locked into nitrates.
Any sign of dangerous ionization?
No.
Okay. If there's no life here, we've got just seventytwo hours to find it. That's when the groceries run out.
Which direction?
That way.
Any particular reason?
None at all.
Taylor  quit riding him.
You're more than three hundred light years from your precious planet. Your loved ones have been dead and forgotten for twenty centuries. Even if you could get back, they'd think you were something that fell out of a tree.
Where there's one there's another. And another. And another.
Let's find them all.
Well, at least they haven't tried to bite us.
Blessed are the vegetarians.
Do you have to work tonight?
No.
Neither do I.
That's Bright Eyes. The one I was telling you about.
What's so special about him?
Watch. Hello, Bright Eyes. How's our throat today?
Look  she remembers.
Remembers what?
The blood transfusion.
Zira, come on. You know they can't  Oh oh. Here comes Number One.
It's a stunt. Humans don't write.
Dear, you're a scientist. Don't you believe your own eyes?
Where did you learn to do this?
Now, just a minute 
Oh, Cornelius, be quiet.
'Dodge was killed in the hunt. What happened to Landon?' I don't know.
And they fell out of the sky with you?
Flight is a scientific impossibility.
And even if it weren't, why fly? Where would it get you?
Cornelius, why do you insist on provoking him?
No creature can survive in that part of the Forbidden Zone. I've been there. I've seen it.
'Then how do you account for me?,
I don't. And I'm not going to try.
But what about your theory? The existence of someone like Taylor might prove it.
Zira, are you trying to get my head cut off?
Don't be foolish. If it's true, they'll have to accept it.
No, they won't 
Cornelius has developed a brilliant hypothesis 
It's probably wrong 
 that the ape evolved from a lower order of primate, possibly man. In his trip to the Forbidden Zone he discovered traces of a culture older than recorded time 
The evidence was very meager 
You didn't think so then.
That was before Dr. Zaius and half the Academy said the idea was heresy.
How can scientific truth be heresy? What if Taylor is exactly the proof you needed? A mutation. A missing link between the unevolved primate and the ape 
'I am not a missing link.'
Because if he is a missing link, it means the Sacred Scrolls aren't worth their parchment.
Well, maybe they're not.
No, thank you'. I won't get into that battle.
Oh, Cornelius, show some strength!
Zira, listen to me. We've got a fine future ahead of us. Marriage. Stimulating careers. I'm up for a raise 
A toy. It floats on the air. Try it.
Zira....
How did it go?
There was one bad moment  some hunters stopped us.
We'd better get started. If the mounted police pick up our trail, they'll come this far at least.
Right. Let's put the water and provisions in the wagon.
Well, Taylor  we're all fugitives now.
Do you have any weapons?
The best. But we won't need them.
Just the same, I want one.
As you wish.
Zaius seems to think there might be another jungle beyond the Forbidden Zone. That's what we'll try for. What about you?
To the diggings I worked at a year ago. It's a three day ride across the eastern desert, near where you claim you landed from that planet of yours.
You still don't believe me, do you?
It's a long detour to Dead Lake. What would we find?
Nothing much. The remnants of a life raft. Maybe a small flag. The emblem of my countrymen.
Sorry, Taylor. The terrain around that lake is poisonous. There is no fresh water, no vegetation. Nothing.
I know ... Nevertheless, I thank you for saving us. You'll be in trouble for going there.
Where does the river lead?
It empties into a sea some miles from here. That's where the cave is.
You've never told me why this region's called the Forbidden Zone.
No one really knows. It's an ancient taboo. Set forth in the Sacred Scrolls. The Lawgiver pronounced the area deadly.
When are you going to show me what's in the cave?
Right now, if you like.
If there's any shooting, Dr. Zaius, you'll be the first to die. Depend on it.
Taylor, you're not in command here. Put down that gun.
Shut up.
Taylor, I'd rather you 
No. You saved me from this fanatic. Maybe I can pay you back.
Yes. I have to agree. From all you've found so far, his position's as good as yours.
What are you doing there?
Reconstructing a life. Care to have a look?
That was different. We thought you were .... inferior.
And now you know the truth. Cornelius has beaten you, Doctor. He proved it. Man preceded you here. You owe him your science, your language, whatever knowledge you have.
They can't convict us of that. You proved our innocence. Besides... ... his culture is our culture.
Good luck then.
Cornelius, if you have a moment today, I'd like to discuss this expedition of yours in more detail.
Certainly, sir. I'll get my notes and come right over.
Dr. Zaius 
Did you forget our appointment, Cornelius?
Oh., no., sir. I was just assembling my notes.
You know Dr. Maximus, our Commissioner for Animal Affairs?
Certainly, sir. It's a pleasure to see you again.
He exceeded his orders. His travel permit was promptly revoked.
Yes, sir, so it was  thanks to you. But not before I discovered evidence of a simian culture that existed long before the Sacred Scrolls were written ...
How did you know we'd come here?
It wasn't difficult. Only an apostate or a lunatic would flee to the Forbidden Zone. I see you brought along the female of your species. I didn't realize a man could be monogamous.
I ask you to reconsider the rash course you've taken. If you're convicted of heresy, the most you'll get is two years. But if you persist in pointing guns in my direction, you'll hang for high treason.
We've never meant to be treasonable, sir. But up there, in the face of that Cliff, is a vast cave  and in that cave a fabulous treasure of fossils and artifacts.
I've seen some of your fossils and artifacts. They're worthless.
Indeed, the very fact that these tools are unknown to us could suggest a culture in certain ways almost equal to our own. Some of the evidence is uncontestable ...
Don't speak to me in absolutes. The evidence is contestable.
I apologize.
To begin with, your methods of dating the past are crude, to say the least. There are geologists on my staff who would laugh at your speculations.
A doll alone proves nothing. True. But the doll was found beside the jawbone of a man  and no trace of simian fossils has turned up in this deposit.
Your conclusion is premature. Have you forgotten your Scripture? The Thirteenth Scroll? 'And Proteus brought the upright beast into the garden, and chained him to a tree, and the children made sport of him.'
No sir, I haven't forgotten.
Well? For a time the ancients kept humans as household pets. Until the Lawgiver proved that man could not be tamed. Keep digging Cornelius. You'll find evidence of the master of this house: an ape.
Seal the cave?
That's correct. And you will both stand trial for heresy.
Not a starjumper.
Doesn't need to be. Use this to get back up to the SolTrack Shipping Lanes, stick out a thumb. You'll get picked up. Right?
What, you don't really think they left with their clothes on the lines? Photos on the walls?
Maybe they had weight limits, you don't know.
I know you don't uncrate your emergency ship unless there's a fucking emergency.
You were tryin' to kill him too.
Just wanted his O2. Though I notice he tried to ghost my ass. When he shot up that stranger instead.
Take it.
What, it's broken?
Startin' to acclimate, anyhow. Take it.
An' this?
Blowdart hunting stick from Papua New Guinea. Very <u>very</u> rare, since the tribe's extinct.
'Cuz they couldn't hunt shit with these things, be my guess.
Well, what's the need, anyway? If he's gone, he's gone. Why should he bother us?
So much for your nightfall.
So much for my cocktail hour.
Amazing how you can do without the essentials of life  so long as you have the luxuries.
Well, just keep your bloodyfuckin' eyes open. Don't want that ratbag sneakin' up on me bloodyfuckin' arse.
Found somethin' worse than me, huh?
We're movin'. And I'm just wondering if I shouldn't lighten the load right now.
Want you to remember this moment, Riddick. The way it coulda gone and didn't.
Say that again.
Here's the deal. You work without the chains, without the bit  without the shivs. You help us get off this rock....
For what? The honor of goin' back to some asshole of a cell?
Truth is, Riddick, I'm tired of this headup shit. I wanna be free of you as much as you wanna be free of me.
You'd cut me loose, Boss?
Only if we both get outta this alive. And there may be a way.
My recommendation: Do me. Don't take the chance that I'll get shivhappy on your wannabe ass. Ghost me, Riddick. Would if I were you.
If you were me, I'd kill us both. C'mon, you wanna sit at the grownup table or not?
Are you fuckin' kidding me?
Not afraid of the dark, are you?
I'd rather piss glass.
Well, you got the big gauge.
Wanna rag your fat mouth?
Think about that reward, Johns.
I'm willing to take a cut in pay.
How 'bout a cut in your gut?
<u>Fuck me</u>. You said "clear."
Said "looks clear."
Well, what's it look like now?
Looks clear.
Such as.
Hard to tell, sometimes...even for me... but looked like a bunch of those big boys chewin' each other's gonads off. Thought we'd swing wide. Okay by you?
About how to kill us and still get these cells to the skiff. Goddamnit, we're just doin' the heavy lifting for this prick!
About the girl.
What're you jawjackin' about? Girl's not cut.
No. She's not.
Aw, this can't be happening to me....
They been noseopen for her ever since we left. They go off blood.
Ain't all of us gonna make it.
Just realized that, huh?
Six of us left. If we could get through that canyon and lose just one, that'd be quite a fucking feat, huh? A good thing, right?
Not if I'm the one.
What if you're one of five?
Look, it's hellified stuff  but no different than those battlefield doctors when they have to decide who lives and who dies. It's called "triage," okay?
Kept calling it "murder" when I did it.
Either way, figure it's something you can grab onto.
Sacrifice play. Hack up one body, leave it at start of the canyon. Like a bucket of chum.
<u>Trawl</u> with it. There's a cable on the sled. We can drag the body behind us.
Nice embellishment.
Don't wanna feed these landsharks  just keep 'em off our scent.
So which one caught your eye?
Don' look, don' look, don' look....
What's her name, anyway?
What do you care?
Then let's not name the Thanksgiving turkey, okay? I assume you still got a shiv.
What, you 'spect <u>me</u> to do it?
What's one more to you? Like <u>this</u> is the one that sends you to Hell?
Oh, you're a piece of art, Johns. They oughtta hang you in a museum somewhere. Or forget the museum  maybe they should just hang you.
Aw, don't tell me you're growin' scruples.
Just wonderin' if we don't need a bigger piece of chum.
Like who, Mr. Chrislam?
...then we saw this.
Anyone else having breathing problems? Aside from me?
King Tut's tomb....
Be surprised what these will fetch in the Taurus system. Here. This Wooten here  easy, easy. Very rare.
A toast to whatever he just said.
I'll need a receipt for that. For all these.
What the hell are these?
Maratha crowbill warpicks from Northern India. Very rare.
So just like that. Wave your little wand and he's one of us now.
Didn't say that. But least this way I don't have to worry about falling asleep and not wakin' up.
Well, just a skiff. Disposable, really.
Like an emergency liferaft, right?
Very big beads.
Not staying in here another....
She's the pilot, she should stay close to the cells.
Oh, so I'm disposable?
For what? There is no water. You understand that, don't you?
All deserts have water, somewhere. God shall lead us there.
"God is Great," yes?
I'm bornagain.
We got you...it's okay, it's okay...we got you now....
The child heard you before any of us could even....
I had the impression...from the model... that the two planets were moving as one. That there would be...a lasting darkness.
Those suns gotta come back <u>sometime</u>. And if these animals really are phobic about light, we just sit tight till then.
Oh, Trash Baby, you're gonna regret this.
Please...this solves nothing...please....
We crossed our own tracks.
He's running us 'round in circles. Look for yourself. Look!
She's the captain, we should listen to 
Listen to her? <u>Her</u>? When she was willing to sacrifice us all?
Has anyone seen the young one? Ali?
Has anyone checked the coring room?
Well...we must keep her close, then. Here, she'll be safe if we put her between 
There is no "safe."
Where's Mr. Johns?
Which half?
You mean....
What're you doin'?
Blessing you like the others. It's painless.
And pointless.
I see. Well, even if you don't believe in God, it doesn't mean He won't be 
You <u>don't</u> see.
'Cuz you don't spend half your life in lockdown with a horsebit in your mouth and not believe. And you surely don't start out in a liquor store trash bin with an umbilical cord wrapped around your neck and not believe. Oh, absolutely I believe in God. And I absolutely hate the fucker.
He will be with us. Nonetheless.
Give my blessing to the girl. She needs a spare.
Suleiman!
Get the girl back under. Keep going.
SULEIMAN!
KEEP GOING OR I WILL!
New Mecca....
Think a soul could get lost there? With all those pilgrimtypes?
It's more a place where souls are found, Mr. Riddick.
I don't suppose....
One of the Christian habits we <u>didn't</u> adopt  perhaps unfortunately. We'll have to wait.
So quiet. You get used to the sounds of the ship, then....
You know who Muhammad was?
Some prophet guy?
"Some prophet guy." And a city man. But he had to travel to the desert  where there was quiet  to hear the words of God.
You were on a pilgrimage? To New Mecca?
Chrislam teaches that once in every lifetime should there be a great hajj  a great pilgrimage. To know God, better, yes, but to know yourself as well.
Frightening thought.
We're all on the same hajj now.
One is all?
For now.
I saw the cutmarks on the bones. Wasn't a natural dieoff.
Quiet, please. Everyone.
Hasan?
Riddick?
They're afraid of our light. That means we don't have to be so afraid of them.
And you're certain you can find the way back? Even in the dark?
No, I'm not. But <u>he</u> can.
Imam. Slow down.
What?
Don't stop, just slow down. Little more space 'tween us and them.
I would rather we all stay
Do what I say. Please.
The sled as a shield....
And what about the cells?
Oh, no. No, no, no....
Rain.
Why did I fall on you?
He's dead. Cap'n's dead. Christ, I was looking right at him when 
I mean, I mean, chrono shows we're 22 weeks out, so gravity wasn't supposed to kick in for another 19. I mean, I mean, I mean, why did I fall <u>at all</u>?
You hear me? Captain's dead. Owens too.
Oh, no. Not Owens, not.... Wai', wai', wait. <u>I'm Owens</u>. Right?
1550 millibars, dropping 20 MB per minute, shit, we're hemorrhaging air. <u>Somethin'</u> took a swipe at us.
Just tell me we're still in the shipping lane. Just show me all those stars, all those bright, beautiful, deepspace....
Fry?
Can't get my nose down...too much load back there....
You mean that "load" of passengers?
So what, we should both go down too? Out of sheer fucking nobility?
Look, Fry. Company says we're responsible for every one of those 
Company's not here, is it?
When captain went down, you stepped up  whether you like it or not. Now they train you for this, so 
And there wasn't a simulated cockroach alive within 50 clicks of the simulated crash site! <u>That's</u> how they train you! On a fucking simulator!
Owens!
70 seconds! You still got 70 seconds to level this beast out!
It's the atmosphere. Too much pressure, not enough oxygen. Might take a few days to 
So what the bloody hell happened, anyways?
Somethin' knocked us offlane. Maybe a rogue comet. Maybe we'll never know.
Well? Is it just the pump?
Ask if anyone has anything in cargo! Anything to drink!
Imam. We should leave soon. Before nightfall but while it's cooler.
What, you're goin' off, too?
Johns is leaving you a gun. Just do me a favor, huh? Get my crewies buried? They were good guys who died bad.
Hey.
Hey, who?
Hey, me. Over here.
Amazing. I'm Johns.
Carolyn Fry. I'd shake hands, but...
And him?
Big Evil?
We just keep him locked up forever?
Be my choice. Already escaped once from the maxslam facility on 
I don't need his life story. Is he really that dangerous?
Only around humans.
S'matter?
Little swampflu from the Conga system. Never shook it with all this cryosleep.
A very good sign. That's Riddick's direction. You do <u>not</u> wanna be caught in the dark with this guy.
Thought you found his restraints over there. Toward sunset.
Which means he went toward sunrise.
What?
Tell me it's not a mirage.
Probably makes it worse. Dehydrates you even more.
Probably right.
No, no, I wanted to get away.
So I noticed. Never seen a "captain" quite so ready to leave her ship.
Better keep moving....
What'd Owens mean? 'Bout not touching the switch?
Hey. You can tell me, Carolyn.
Promise me. Swear to me you won't 
You see anybody else here? Just between you and me.
During the landing...when things were at their worst...Owens was at his best. He's the one who wouldn't let the pilot dump the passenger cabin.
So now you know.
Fuck. Guess I'm more glad to be here than I thought.
Didn't bite.
What?
Thought he might be coolin' it in the boneyard  could either doubleback to the ship or slip in behind us. So I left the bottle out as bait.
No juice, looks like it's been laid up for years. But we might be able to adapt 
Shut up.
Sorry. Thought I heard something.
Like what?
Like my pistola.
...I don't play that...I don't play that so just try again. C'mon, Riddick, tell me a better lie....
Ease up, ease up. JOHNS! Just tell me what....
He used that?
Sir Shivalot. He likes to cut.
So why isn't it all bloody?
I assume he licked it clean.
I <u>know</u> what happened  he went off on the guy, buried him on the hill somewhere, and now he's trying to 
Let's just be sure.
I <u>am</u> sure. Look, murders aside, Riddick belongs in the Asshole Hall of Fame. He loves the jawjackin', loves making you afraid, 'cuz that's all he has. And you're playing right into 
<u>We're gonna find the body</u>, Johns. Christ, you're a cop. Why am I tellin' you this? We gotta go down and find it.
Well, don't ask me to.
Thought you didn't believe his story.
I don't. But that ground looked none too stable, and I don't want anyone 
Nobody else is going down but me, okay?
Hey. Bein' ballsy with your life now doesn't change what came before  it's just stupid.
What, you think I'm doin' this to prove something?
You said it, not me. Let's just not let one bad call lead to another.
Thanks for the tip, Johns.
Little rattyass.
Nothing we can't repair  so long as the electrical adapts.
Okay, that should buy us a syscheck. But we'll need more cells.
How many?
15 6gigs here...90 gigs total...other ship carries 20gig cells, so...five. Five total to launch.
25 kilos each, huh?
Rag it, Riddick. Nobody wants your theories on 
So what happened? Where are they, then?
Let's board this up and get the hell gone. They seem to stick to the dark, so if we stick to daylight, should be all 
60 years ago.
Wha'?
...need those cells from the crash ship. Shit, still gotta check out the hull, patch the wings 
Let's wait on the power cells.
Wait for what? Until it's so dark we can't even find our way back to 
We're not sure <u>when</u> it happens, so let's not 
<u>Get the fucking cells over here</u>, Johns. What's the discussion?
He can pilot?
Hijacked a prison transport, made a helluva good run 'fore I tracked him down.
Okay, maybe that's a <u>good</u> thing. Maybe I can use him to help with 
He also figured out how to kill the pilot, Fry.
You said we were going to trust him now. You said there was a deal.
That's what I said.
Oh, this is a dangerous game you're playing, Johns.
May've noticed chains don't work on this guy. Only way we're truly safe is if he believes he's goin' free. But if he <u>stops</u> believin' 
You mean, if he learns that you're gonna royally fuck him over.
 we need a failsafe. Bring the cells over at the last possible minute  when the wings are ready, when we <u>know</u> we're ready to launch.
You know, he hasn't harmed any of us. Far as I can tell, he hasn't even lied to us. Just stick to the deal, Johns. Let him go if that's what it 
He's a murderer. The law says he's gotta do his bid.
Dancin' on razor blades here...
I won't give him a chance to grab another ship  or to slash another pilot's throat.
You're not a real cop, are you? Just some mercenary who goes around talkin' about the law like 
I never said I was.
Never said you were a hype, either.
You have a little caffeine in the morning, I have a little morphine. So what?
And here you got two mornings every day. Wow, were you <u>born</u> lucky?
Not a problem unless you're gonna make 
<u>You</u> made it a problem when you let Owens die like that. When you had enough drugs to knock out a fucking muleteam.
Owens was already dead. His brain just hadn't caught on to that fact.
Anything <u>else</u> we should know about you, Johns? Christ, here I am lettin' you play games with our lives when 
My first runin with Riddick. Went for the sweetspot and missed. They had to leave a piece of the shiv in there. I can feel it, sometimes, pressing against the cord. So maybe the care and feeding of my nerveendings is my business.
You coulda helped. And you didn't.
Stop it, stop it, STOP IT!
'Sokay, 'sokay. I killed it.
Oh, lady. If you're in your right mind, I pray you go insane.
We can stick to the plan. If we get four cells back to the skiff, we're off this rock.
Look, we gotta think about everyone now  the kid especially. How scared is she gonna be out there?
Oh, don't use her like that, for a smoke screen.
Smoke screen for what?
For your own fear.
Hey. Why don't you rag your hole for two seconds and let someone else come up with a plan that doesn't involve MASS SUICIDE?
How much you weigh, Johns?
What the hell's it matter?
How much?
79 kilos.
Because you're 79 kilos of gutless white meat, and <u>that's</u> why you can't come up with a better plan.
He'll lead you over the first cliff. You know that, don't you?
We're just burnin' light here.
You give him the cells and the ship  and he will leave you. He will leave you all out there to die.
I don't get it, Johns. What is so goddamn valuable in your life that you're worried about losing? Huh? Is there anything at all? Besides your next hype? Got no right to be so scared. Neither one of us.
So you noticed too?
Riddick. <u>Riddick</u>.
We aren't completely stupid.
Stay in the light! Everybody! Stay in the fucking 
Hey, <u>you're</u> the one who got me out here, turned me into a goddamn sled dog. An' now you 'spect me to go back like a <u>whipped</u> dog?
I was wrong. I admit it. My bad, okay? Now let's just go back to the ship.
I dunno. Nice breeze, wide open spaces  you know, I'm startin' to enjoy myself out here.
Are you fucking high again? Just listen to 
No, no, you're right, Fry. What's to be afraid of? My life is a steamin' pile of meaningless toadshit anyhow. So I say mush on! Canyon's only couple hundred meters, after that we're in Skiff City! So why don't you just butch up, stuff a cork in that kid, and get 
This does not help us, Johns.
 she tried to blow the whole fucking passenger cabin, tried to kill us 
Just shut up, okay?
 tried to kill us in our sleep. Paris had it right  we <u>are</u> disposable. We're just walking ghosts to her.
Would you RAG YOUR STUPID HOLE!
We cannot go through there....
How much you weigh right now, Fry? Huh?
This is it? Booze? <u>That's</u> what you have to drink?
200yearold singlemalt scotch is to "booze" as foie gras is to "duck guts."
What do my eyes see?
It's starting....
Just a suggestion, but perhaps we should flee.
Cargo hold, everyone in the cargo hold. lesgo, lesgo, lesgo.
Christ, you don't know what's out there!
I know what's in here!
There....
Like the light is scalding it.
It hurts them. Light actually hurts them....
...one cutting torch...one handlight here, two more in the cabin...I <u>think</u> two more....
Spirits. Anything over 45 proof burns well.
How many bottles?
Not sure. Ten?
Those umbrellas, the ones that mist. Would they burn? If you got a receipt?
Possibly.
Awright. So maybe we'll have enough light.
I hate to kill a beautiful theory with an ugly fact, but that sandcat won't run at night.
We'll have to carry the cells...drag them...whatever it takes.
Let's move. Just a detour. He'll get us there.
Can we switch?
What, switch what?
I think I twisted my ankle running backwards like that. And I'm not sure I can.... Okay, that's a lie. I just don't want to be alone back there anymore. If you could just give me a few minutes up front here 
Tell me about the sounds. You told them you heard something right before.... If you don't talk to me, Johns'll take another crack at it  at your skull.
'Mean the whispers?
What whispers?
The ones tellin' me to go for the sweet spot  just to the left of the spine, fourth lumbar down. The abdominal aorta. What a gusher. Had a cup on his belt, so I used it to catch a little runoff. Metallic taste to it, human blood. Coppery. But if you cut it with peppermint schnapps, that goes away. Course, that's more for winter. Summertime, I take mine straight.
All you people are so scared of me  an' most days, I'd take that as a compliment  but it ain't me you gotta worry about now.
Show me your eyes.
You did this? To yourself?
Slam doctor. Well, we called him "doctor."
Heard about it. Just never seen it.
Fairly fuckin' ironic, wouldn't you say? Slamlight's so dim that you go and get your eyeballs taken out and shined up  then you wind up here. Three asskick suns. Maybe I did do a few people. But not this one. No ma'am, not this time.
Then where is he? He's not in the hole. We looked.
Look deeper.
Power cells.
They're coming.
Strange, not doin' a runup on the main drive yet. Strange unless he told you the particulars of my escape.
I got the quickandugly version.
An' now you're worried about a repeat of history?
Entered our minds.
I asked what <u>you</u> thought.
You scare me, Riddick. That's what you wanna hear, isn't it? There, I admit it, Can I get back to work now?
Why, what'd you hear?
Well, guess if it was trickeration he'd just do me, huh? Then again...I am worth twice as much alive. Didn't know? Johns ain't a cop. Oh, he's got that shiny badge an' all, but nah  he's just a merc and I'm just a payday. That's why he won't kill me. The creed is greed.
Riddick...was thinkin' we should make some kind of deal. Just in case, you know, this actually 
Had it with deals.
But I just wanted to say 
Nobody's gonna turn a murderer loose. I fuckin' knew better.
Been a long time since anyone's trusted me. That's somethin' right there.
We can, can't we? Trust you?
Actually... That's what I been askin' myself.
Where are the sandcat tracks? Why aren't we still following them?
Saw something I didn't like.
What do you see? Riddick?
Hunger. I see 60 years of hunger.
Riddick? What the hell are you 
<u>Listen</u>.
Canyon ahead. I circled once to buy some time to think.
Think about what?
What about her?
What it's gonna be like when we hit that canyon. With her bleeding.
Back to the ship, huh?
Get out of our way.
So everybody huddles together till the lights burn out? Until you can't see what's eating you? That the big plan?
How many you see?
One or two.
Audrey?
We're just here to carry your light, aren't we? Just the torchbearers.
Let's drop back an' boot up.
As fast as you can.
You sure you can keep 
As fast as you can.
So where the hell's God now, huh? I'll tell you where! He's up there PISSING ON ME!
Riddick? How close?
Tell me the settlement is right there! RIDDICK, PLEASE!
We can't make it.
Strong survival instinct. Admire that in a woman.
You're not leaving. Not until we go back for the others.
I promised them we'd go back with more light. And that's exactly what we're gonna do..
Think you've mistaken me for somebody who gives a fuck.
What, you're afraid?
Confusin' me with Johns now  fear was <u>his</u> monkey. I only deal in life and death. All that stuff in between? Some shade of grey my eyes don't see.
<u>I trusted you</u>, Riddick. Goddamn, I trusted that some part of you wanted to rejoin the human race.
Truthfully? I wouldn't know how.
Just come with me!
Got a better idea. Come with <u>me</u>.
They're already dead. Get on board.
You're fuckin' with me. I know you are.
'Course I am  but doesn't mean I won't leave you here. If you believe anything about me, better be that.
No, you see, I <u>promised</u> them...I have to...I have to go and....
Step aboard, Carolyn.
I can't....I can't....
Here. Make it easy on you.
Don't do this to me....
Just give me your hand.
But they...they could still be....
No one's gonna blame you. C'mon. Take my hand and save yourself, Carolyn.
You'd die for them?
I would try for them.
You barely know them.
But I'm human. I know you view that as a weakness, but I'm sorry  I <u>do</u> feel fear, theirs too. Goddamnit, Riddick  yes. I would die for them.
Liquid oxygen canisters inside. Start ripping them out. Quick hits only  try to make it last.
Well, is someone coming for us? Or are we all just gonna die of exposure or dehydration or sunstroke or maybe even something worse? Hey, you don't have to worry about scaring me.
Bottlecount.
Four fulls, one half. That mean we're halfway there? I hope?
I didn't want you to leave me there... back at the ship...that's why I didn't say anything....
No, we'd never....Oh, God, honey, you shoulda told me sooner.
Bring the light!
What're they doing? What're <u>we</u> 
Leave the sled, let's go, go, go!
Three full bottles. But almost time to refill.
Doesn't seem like enough to turn back on, does it?
Audrey? Oh, Audrey....
<u>What</u>?
Tell me that was you.
Okay, it was me. What'd I do now?
Assailing my fragile sense of security, that's what.
Oh, Lord....
It was just somebody else. From the crash. He was just....
You mean...tonight? With all those things still out there?
Oh, sure. Why not? Sounds like a hoot.
Don't wanna miss this.
Lookit. Lookit!
Gonna lose everybody out here....
He died fast. And if we got any choice, that's the way we should all go out. Don't you cry for Johns. Don't you dare.
What? What is it?
It's a fucking staircase! Go over it! GO OVER IT!
You came for us....
Yeah, yeah  we're all fuckin' amazed. Anyone not ready for this?
Probably okay to talk to me now.
Not sure where to go. I was just runnin' away when this whole thing started. Where you goin'?
Not sure. I was just runnin' away when this whole thing....
... interview every employee, support staff, associates, partners. Did <u>any</u> of them know Andy was sick? <u>How</u> did they know? Did he tell them? Did they notice something was wrong with his appearance? None of this information got to the managing partners. We know that. Make sure everyone else does too... And Beckett: I want to know everything about his personal life. Did he frequent those pathetic bars on Camac Street?
Jesus.
What about other homosexual facilities, whatever they are?
Charles...
What deviant groups or organizations did he secretly belong to? What is it, Bob?!
Let's settle with Andy and put this whole tragic mess behind us.
That's kind of... extreme, Walt. Andy's private life is none of our business.
Bob. You're trying my patience. Andrew Beckett is making his private life our business. We gave him Kronos. Did he say, "I'm sick. I might not be able to see this through?"
He was doing a great job.
Bob. I must ask you to shut the fuck up. Did Andrew Beckett say "I might not be able to serve our clients to the <u>best of my ability</u>?" He said nothing. And now, Andrew Beckett proposes to haul me into a court of law, to sling accusations at me, in full view of the entire, Philadelphia, judicial establishment. My God.
I've discovered something interesting, Charles.
... keep them from that area, on grounds of relevancy. What, Bob?
No matter how hard I try, I can't lose a file in my computer.
Very interesting, Bob. Let's make a note of that. Andy didn't lose the complaint in his computer. He never put it in. He lied about that, too.
Charles...
If you feel differently, Bob, you should say so, when you're called to the stand. After all, this isn't a conspiracy.
I didn't tell the others, I was afraid to...
... But now, we're standing up for ourselves...
... But we shouldn't have fired him...
... It's time to get this society back on track!
It's good to be King, hey Charles?
Kings are out of fashion. I'd rather be thought of as a benevolent tyrant. It's an antitrust action.
Andy. It seems that something has come over you, lately: A kind of... stupor, a fogginess, a lack of focus... Earth to Andy. Anybody home?
Helloooo...
Julius!
Dr. J.!
Andrew brought AIDS into our offices, into our men's room. He brought AIDS to our annual goddamn family picnic.
We ought to be suing him.
Wait a minute. The man was fired for incompetence, not because he has AIDS. You didn't know he was sick, did you, Bob?
Holy Shit. Did you, Bob?
You'll be sorry, Beckett.
Andy, you don't want this.
... to suit their personal desires, and the rest of us have to live with it.
You have to make a decision: is this guy partner material?
Attorney for the plaintiff?
Joseph Miller, Your Honor. Macready and Shilts Legal Services.
I've seen your television commercials. "If you or anyone you know has been injured through the fault of others... It should say, "through the <u>negligence</u> of others."
I'll take that under consideration, Your Honor.
On behalf of the defendants?
If it please Your Honor, we <u>hope</u> to settle this matter.
By God you <u>will</u> settle it! If you force this case to trial, young man, you'll regret it for the rest of your naturalborn days... Now, Joseph. What would you require to settle this matter today?
Reinstatement at full salary. Back pay covering the period of unemployment and...
Hold it, Joe. He wants to come back to work, Chuck.
Based on what my client would have earned over the next three years, including benefits and projected raises, and the extraordinary cost of medical care for someone with Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome... We would settle today for the very fair amount of one million five hundred thousand dollars.
Very good, Joe. Now, Belinda, I've got a figure over here, of one million, five. I...
In this courtroom, Mr. Miller, justice is blind. To matters of race, creed, color, religion. And sexual orientation.
With all due respect, Your Honor... We don't live in this courtroom, do we?
No. We don't... However, as regards this witness, I'm going to sustain the defense's objection.
Let's continue.
You had one guy "like that?"
This would be a good time to break for the day...
Your Honor? May I have ten minutes in redirect?
Beckett?
Whoa, whoa... What do you expect them to say, you're Alan Dershowitz?
A trial takes <u>time</u>, Beckett. Do you know what I'm saying?
Anywhere from two weeks, to several months.
Any women on board?
Not when I was in the Navy.
So during those long voyages, months at a time, out to sea, no women in sight, a hundred, hardworking, robust, young men, in the prime of their life, at the peak of their natural appetites, desires, their god given, hormonal <u>instincts</u>... Anything going on?
Going on... like...?
Like... two sailors playing hide the salami.
Yeah. But we took care of him.
How did you do that?
We stuck his head in the latrine, after ten of us had used it.
You taught him a lesson.
Yes, we did.
Like firing Andrew Beckett taught <u>him</u> a lesson?
<u>She</u> didn't try to conceal it.
So you are aware of the difference between a lesion and a bruise, is that correct?
I <u>know</u> the difference. That doesn't mean I'm always able to recognize the difference.
But didn't you avoid contact with Ms. Torres, after you found out she had AIDS? She says you acted repulsed by her and you avoided her, is that correct?
I felt, and still feel, nothing but the deepest sympathy and compassion for people like Maria, who have contracted this terrible disease through no fault of their own.
Right.
Why didn't you cross at the crosswalk?
Why should I?
Yeah. Do I have a case?
Of course you have a case! Now, I want you to go with my assistant, Iris, and fill out some forms. She'll tell you about our fee arrangement. Mrs. Finley? Any back pain since the accident? Dizziness? Nightmares?
Now that you mention it...
Tell Iris all about it. Take good care of Mrs. Finley, Iris. Beckett, come in.
You load the film... ? No, on this side... or this side? Don't move the baby!
Give me the camera, Joe.
You have a problem with gays, Joe.
Not especially.
How many gays do you know?
How many do you know?
Lots.
Who?
Karen Berman. Aunt Teresa. My cousin Tommy who lives in Rochester. Eddie Meyers from the office. Joe Cantwell, he's one of the partners. His lover, Greg. Stanley, the guy who's putting in our kitchen cabinets.
Your Aunt Teresa is gay? That beautiful, sensuous woman is a... <u>lesbian</u>?
Duh...
Since when?
Probably since she was born.
Allright. I admit it: I'm prejudiced. I don't want to work with a homosexual. You got me.
Okay, Joe...
I mean, two guys, doing the horizontal thing? I don't get it. Don't they get confused? "Is that mine? I thought it was yours." Hey, call me old fashioned, call me conservative... I think maybe you have to be a man to get just how nauseating the whole basic idea really is.
Fine, Joe.
And the way they work out, pumping up, so they can be macho and faggot at the same time... I can't <u>stand</u> that shit. Now I'm being totally honest with you.
That's perfectly clear.
Would you take a client if you were constantly thinking: "I hope this guy doesn't touch me. I don't even want him to <u>breathe</u> on me?"
Don't know, Joe.
Is there some kind of expression I've picked up from Beckett?! Some kind of fairy attitude I've unconsciously adopted?! Am I walking different?! Some kind of vocal thing?! Have I picked up some kind of homo <u>vibe</u>?!
Have you changed your aftershave?
Very funny. I had a box of Pampers under my arm for Chrissake!
Joe?
Yeah... ?
Two men making love... ? Now tell me again... <u>why</u> is that disgusting?
Lisa, c'mon. One guy sticking his dick in another guy's mouth? It's disgusting.
Okay, so... help me with this one, Joe... Is it disgusting for someone to put his dick into someone's mouth? Or, is it disgusting for someone to take a dick into <u>their</u> mouth?
Great, Lisa. Thank you.
Did I ever tell you, I hate costume parties?
My lettuce is wilting.
I'll see you in an hour, max.
Night, honey.
Good school. What year?
Second.
Great.
Would you like to have a drink with me? I just finished a game, I could use a beer. I don't pick up people in drug stores every day.
Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa... do you think... ? You think <u>I'm</u>... ... gay?
Aren't you?
What's the matter with you? Do I look gay to you?
Do I look gay to you? Relax.
Relax? I ought to kick your faggoty little ass for you!
Take it as a compliment. Geesh.
Don't you know this is exactly the kind of bullshit that makes people hate you guys?
Fuck you! You want to kick my ass? You want to try? Asshole.
You're the asshole, buddy.
Get a life.
Andy. Before we begin, I'd just like to say: everyone in this room is your friend.
You're in trouble.
Let's put it this way, Andy: your place in the future of this firm is no longer secure.
In a word, yes.
We don't think it's fair to keep you here, where your future is limited. But we wish you luck, Andy, all the luck in the world.
And I hate to rush you out of here, but...
But he's got lots of other people's lives to ruin...
... we've got a committee meeting.
Explain to me, if you can, Mr. Wheeler, explain this to me like I'm a ten yearold. This trial is not about a disease, is that what you're saying? <u>Not</u> about your understandable, if unfounded, fear of catching AIDS through casual contact with someone who has it? You're saying, this trial is about Andrew Beckett's character. Am I getting this right?
Yes, character. To the extent that it affects a person's ability to do a great job.
Sometimes it seems like society is <u>run</u> by these kinds of people.
What kind of people?
People who want to bend the rules...
Andrew Beckett represented your company in a lawsuit in 1990, is that correct?
Wyant Wheeler represented us.
But, Andrew Beckett was in charge of litigation for the suit.
That's correct.
Were you pleased with his work?
We were satisfied.
Mr. Laird, when I approached you about being a witness at this trial, and you agreed, you gave sworn testimony in a deposition. Is that correct?
That's correct.
According to the deposition, you said you were "thrilled, impressed, overwhelmed" by the quality of Andrew Beckett's work. Do you remember saying that?
I may have said something like that. But that's not how I feel at this moment.
Okay, Mr. Laird. Explain this to me like I'm a four year old: Did Andrew Beckett win your lawsuit for you or not?
We won.
Did that thrill, impress and overwhelm you?
It satisfied me.
It's a long way between being overwhelmed and being satisfied. A cheeseburger may be satisfying whereas caviar and champagne and roast duck and baked Alaska for dessert might be considered overwhelming. Do you agree?
I might.
Five months ago you characterized Andrew Beckett as caviar and now you're calling him a cheeseburger. Your standards have shifted a great deal, and I'd like to know why you've changed your mind.
Since that time I've devoted more thought to the subject, and that's how I feel now.
You had contact with someone who has AIDS, and you're worried.
I'm not worried. What are you doing?
The HIV virus can only be transmitted through the exchange of bodily fluids, namely blood and semen.
Right.
Leave that.
Yeah, but Doc, isn't it true they keep finding out new things about this disease? So you tell me, today, there's no danger, and I go home, and I hold my baby, and six months from now I hear on the news: "whoops! We were wrong.' You <u>can</u> carry it on your clothes, your skin, and now I've got to worry about my kid. What are you doing?
We're going to draw blood.
Why are we going to do that?
Joe. I don't care a whit about your private life.
You want to give me an AIDS <u>test</u>?!
The guy sat in my office! You can't get AIDS that way, right?
Right.
It doesn't travel through the air, by breathing, or touching, right?
Not by touching, or shaking hands, or hugging, using the same toilet... Even kissing someone with AIDS is safe. But it there's something in your past you're worried about...
Thanks, Doc, but I don't need an AIDS test. Are you crazy? But thanks for the information. Really.
A homosexual encounter.
Get real.
Unprotected sex with a prostitute.
Uh.... No. Not really.
Or unprotected sex with someone you didn't know very well, any time during the last twelve years.
And, when lawyers break the law, when this society loses respect for the law, when that day comes, our cherished institutions will be burned to the ground, and our children and grandchildren will live like savages.
Fact. Andrew Beckett performed at a consistently mediocre level. Fact. He made a grievous error on a multimillion dollar lawsuit... Fact. He claims he is the victim of lies and deceit. Fact. Andrew Beckett lied to his employers, going to great efforts to conceal his disease from them. Fact. He was successful in his duplicity. The partners at Wyant Wheeler did <u>not</u> know Andrew Beckett had AIDS when they fired him...
Objection!
I'll rephrase. Did you have anything to do with this file being... misplaced?
Objection!
I'll withdraw. You were aware, when you worked with Maria Torres, that she had AIDS, correct?
Objection!
I'll withdraw it. Mr. Beckett? Were you living with Miguel Alvarez in 1984 or 1985 when you had your anonymous sexual encounter in the porn theater?
We object, Your Honor. It would unfairly influence the jury.
Your Honor, if Mr. Beckett was forced by his illness to use a wheelchair, would the defense ask him to park it outside? We're talking about AIDS, we're talking about lesions. Let's <u>see</u> what we're talking about.
Ms. Burton. You're black.
Is that a question?
No. Have you ever felt discriminated against, at Wyant Wheeler?
Yes.
In what way?
Well... One time, Mr. Wheeler's secretary, Lydia, told me Mr. Wheeler had a problem with my earrings.
Your earrings?
Apparently, Mr. Wheeler felt they were too... "ethnic" is the word she used. She said he would like it if I wore something smaller, less garish, and... more "American."
What did you say?
I said my earrings <u>are</u> American. They're AfricanAmerican.
Thank you. No more questions.
He was losing weight. He looked kind of tired sometimes. But he was working so hard... Still, I felt something was wrong. And I can't believe <u>they're</u> saying they didn't notice anything.
Objection.
Miss Burton? Do you still work at Wyant Wheeler?
Yes.
Were you recently promoted?
Yes. I'm now in charge of the paralegal department.
Thank you.
Hello?
Hi, Mom. It's me.
Andy! This is a nice surprise. How are you, hon?
I'm fine.
What's Dr. Gillman say?
Hold on, Mom. There's no way my client will go along with that.
Gillman says I'm fine. My blood work is excellent. Tcells are up. Just a sec ... Yes, I think that would alleviate most of our concerns. My platelets look good too.
Are you on one of those conference calls? I hate when you put me on hold.
Hi, Mom. How do you feel on your fortieth anniversary?
Ancient. How do you think I feel? Put that thing down and give me a hug. Andrew, stop! ... He still doesn't listen.
Where's Dad?
He's out in his shed showing your uncle his new riding mower.
Mom?
All I know is, you got through your diagnosis fine, like a trooper. But when they fired you... you were so devastated, Andy... I don't expect any of my kids to sit in the back of the bus. Fight for your rights.
Thanks, Mom... Dad?
You said earlier you aspired to be the kind of person who had "an adventurous spirit." Is that correct?
Something like that.
Do you take risks?
In my work? Yes. Calculated risks. You have to.
In general. Do you take risks in other areas of your life?
Not unnecessary ones.
Have you ever been to the Apollo Cinema on Sansom Street?
What kind of movies do they show there?
Gay movies.
Gay <u>pornographic</u> movies?
Yes.
Do men have sex with each other in that theater?
Yes.
When? Approximately what year did this event take place?
I guess it was 1984, 85.
Were you aware in 1984 or 1985 that there was a fatal disease out there, called AIDS, and that you could contract it through sexual activity?
It's impossible to know exactly when or how I was infected with HIV.
But you <u>were</u> having anonymous sex in porno theaters in 1984 and 1985?
That happened once. People weren't talking about AIDS then, the way we are now. Or safe sex.
You'd <u>heard</u> of AIDS in 1984, 85?
I'd heard of <u>something</u>. The gay plague, gay cancer, but... we didn't know how you could get it, or that it could kill you.
Do you need a break?
No.
While you were employed at Wyant Wheeler, you did everything you could to make sure no one knew you were an active homosexual, correct?
That is <u>not</u> correct. I never lied about it.
Did you keep a picture of your lover on your desk?
No.
Do other lawyers at the firm keep pictures of their spouses or fiances on their desks?
Some do. I didn't.
As a homosexual, one is often forced to conceal one's sexuality, is that right?
In some situations.
Isn't it true you have spent your life pretending to be something you're not, so much so that the art of concealment and dishonesty has become second nature to you?!
Yes.
You could have infected him, isn't that right?
Miguel has not been infected. As I said, we weren't aware of AIDS, then, or how it is spread.
Really?
Yes.
You've testified the lesions on your face were visible to the people you worked with, correct?
That's right.
And it's your contention, that when the partners were made aware of the lesions, they jumped to the conclusion you had AIDS and fired you.
Absolutely.
Do you have any lesions on your face at this time?
One. Here, in front of my ear.
By the time I was fired, there were four lesions on my face, much bigger...
Answer the question, please.
No. I can't really see it.
Thank you.
Rach.
I'm late, I have to pick up Amy from her afterschool but I want to talk to you about that Hansen thing.
Catch me later, I'll be here. And tell Amy, I love her painting, it's on my wall.
I thought I was supposed to be covering for you. God, Andy, you look awful.
Fucking Word Processing lost my Kronos complaint. Which must be filed by fucking five o'clock! If it's late, there's no case... Every problem has a solution.
What can I do?
Get down to Word Processing. Help Jamey look.
Your Honor, since Rockwell Corp. began construction, the surrounding residential neighborhood has been enshrouded in a cloud of foulsmelling, germcarrying, pestilent dust. My client is being forced to breathe known carcinogens daily! Other residents are coming forth on a daily basis to add their voices of outrage!
Your Honor, I submit there were no complaints until Counselor began knocking on doors, drumming up business. And the dust, which Counselor refers to, has appeared on only three occasions. Each time it has been examined and the results...
Innocuous?
Defined by Webster's as harmless.
I know what it means. Your Honor, imagine how the children in this neighborhood have been made to feel. The pounding of construction ringing in their ears as this skyscraper, a tribute to mankind's greed, grows daily, casting an ominous shadow over their lives, filling them with dread even as they are surrounded in a black, toxic fog, blocking out the sun while poisoning their lungs! And Counselor calls it harmless?!
Client of yours?
Funny.
Jesus Christ, what happened to you?
I have AIDS.
Whoaoh! Sorry, I...
It's okay. Can I sit down?
Uh, yeah.
New baby?
One week old.
Congratulations.
Little baby girl.
Kids are great.
Thanks, Beckett. I'm real excited about it. What can I do for you?
I was fired by Wyant Wheeler. I plan to bring a wrongful termination suit against Charles Wheeler and his partners.
You want to sue Wyant Wheeler Hellerman Tetlow and Brown?
Correct. I'm seeking representation.
Continue.
I misplaced an important complaint. That's their story. Want to hear mine?
How many lawyers did you go to, before you called me?
Nine.
Continue.
I was diagnosed with AIDS eight months ago. During a bout of pneumonia. I recovered quickly and was back at work in ten days. Since I was doing so well on the AZT, we decided against telling anyone about it.
We?
My lover and I.
Your... lover?
Miguel Alvarez. We've lived together for nine years.
Continue.
I dove back into work, everything was fine. Until the lesions started...
Hell, they are staring. What's that shit on your face?
Makeup.
Big trouble.
Charles, I must apologize again, for the Kronos mishap. It was a scary few minutes around here. Wow. But thank God, the complaint was found. And no damage was done.
I buy that.
As in, the vegetable?
The law says people with disabilities cannot be terminated, so long as they can perform the duties required by their position...
Okay, okay... They discover you have this horrible, disgusting, terminal illness, and they panic, for any number of perfectly valid reasons. They're frightened for themselves, their families... Maybe it's the homo angle. Maybe they don't want to rub elbows with someone who's just popped out of the closet with a terminal case of acne. And how do they explain your status to the client for Chrissake?
Joe, from the day I arrived to the day they fired me, I performed consistently, thoroughly and with absolute excellence. And if they hadn't fired me, that's what I'd be doing today.
Okay... They want you out. It's against the law to fire you for having AIDS, so they make you look like a fuck up. Which leads us to the mysterious, lost file.
They sabotaged me.
I knew you were going to say that. I don't buy it, and I don't see a case.
Look. I know I have a case. If you don't want to take it for personal reasons...
Correct. I don't.
Thanks for your time.
Beckett? I'm sorry about... what's happened to you. It's a fucking kick in the head.
Don't send flowers, Joe. I'm not dead yet.
Oh, Beckett. How's it goin'?
Fine.
Who'd you get?
What?
Find a lawyer?
I'm a lawyer. How's your baby?
Huh? Oh. Great. She's great.
What's her name?
Rayisha.
Rayisha. Very nice.
How did they find out?
One of the partners spotted a lesion on my forehead.
The partner who spotted the lesion, Walter Kenton, used to work for Benton, Myers, in D.C. There's a paralegal there, Maria Torres. She's had lesions on and off for three years. She says it was common knowledge around the office that her lesions were caused by AIDS.
They didn't fire her?
No. They didn't fire her.
So Kenton connected the... lesion, <u>and</u> whatever suspicions he had about your personal life... to this woman, Maria... and blew the whistle on you. Suddenly you're losing files, and it's time to let you go. But, up to this point, you've been their Golden Boy, their rising star... Their behavior is... inconsistent.
Thank you.
There is no relevant precedent.
Arline decision. Supreme Court.
Arline?
One more thing, Your Honor...
Any settlement agreement <u>must</u> include, and this is critical, a letter of exoneration, making clear my termination had nothing to do with the quality of my work.
PARRTYY!
We're friends of Beckett's.
It's me, you dork.
Beckett. You seem... better. Energized, more alive...
I had a blood transfusion today. I feel great.
I'm a law suit.
Not bad.
Get it?
Let's find you a drink.
What do you want?
Beer. We need to go over your Q and A.
Excuse me, I'm having a goddamn party, is that allright with you?
Sure. It's fine.
No, we have to do it. But later, allright?
Thank you.
You think I'm uncomfortable...
Correct.
You're right.
You survived your first gay party intact.
Let me tell you something, okay? When you're brought up, like the rest of us, in a place like where I was brought up, there's not a whole lot of discussion about... homosexuals. As a kid, you're taught right away that queers are weird, queers are funny, they're a danger to kids, they're afraid to fight, and they all want to cop your joint. And that pretty much sums up the general thinking out there, if you want to know the truth.
Thank you for sharing that with me, Joe.
Let's review these notes for your testimony. We have a big day on Monday.
When you refer to Wheeler, call him Charles, to show how you'd been admitted to the inner circle, you were considered one of them.
Uh huh...
Beckett?
Charles. Okay. Miller?
What?
Do you... pray?
Then we establish how Wheeler's boys recruited you after law school...
What have you prayed for?
For a healthy baby. For Lisa to make it through the delivery. For the Phillies to get into the playoffs.
There's a possibility I won't be around for the end of this trial.
I've considered that.
What happens?
We proceed, representing your estate.
I've made provisions in my will for some charities. Miguel will need a lawyer. I know it's not your area...
I know a good probate lawyer.
Thanks. Do you like opera?
Opera?
Want to hear my favorite aria?
Opera?
I'll look over the Q and A.
You're ready, don't worry.
Particularly, Charles.
What impressed you about him?
He was... the kind of person I thought I wanted to be.
What kind of person is that?
Possessed of an encyclopedic knowledge of the law. A razor sharp litigator, a genuine leader, gifted at bringing out the very best in others. An awesome ability to illuminate the most complex of legal concepts to colleagues, courtrooms, the person on the street. The kind of person who plays three sets of tennis but doesn't sweat. But underneath the elegant surface, was an adventurous spirit.
Obviously, at this time, you weren't sick.
It's possible I was infected with the HIV virus at that time, but I wasn't diagnosed until several years later.
You didn't look then, the way you look now?
A regular allAmerican guy?
I suppose you could say that.
Except... you were gay?
I still am.
In the years you worked at Wyant Wheeler, did you ever tell Charles Wheeler you were gay?
No. I didn't.
Can you explain <u>why</u> you didn't?
You don't bring your personal life into a law firm. You're not supposed to <u>have</u> a personal life, really. Anyway, I did plan to tell Charles, eventually. But then, this thing happened at the tennis club...
Are you a good lawyer?
I'm an excellent lawyer.
What makes you an excellent lawyer?
I love the law. I know the law. I excel at practicing it. It's the only thing I've ever wanted to do.
What do you love about it?
Well... many things. But I think the thing I love the most, is that every once in a while, not that often, but occasionally... you get to be part of justice being done. It's really quite a thrill when that happens.
Do you have any lesions on <u>any</u> part of your body, at this time, that resemble the lesions that were on your face at the time you were fired?
Yes. On my torso.
If it please the court, I'd like to ask Mr. Beckett to remove his shirt, so that the jury can have an <u>accurate</u> idea of what we're talking about.
Can you see the lesions on your chest in this mirror?
Yes.
Thank you.
What do you call a thousand lawyers chained together at the bottom of the ocean?
What?
A good start.
Excellent work, Joe. I thank you.
It was good working with you, Andrew. You're welcome. Hey. Shouldn't you put that thing back on?
I better get home. Lisa and I are having some friends over.
Sure thing.
Thanks for coming by.
You bet. We'll see you later.
Mr. Beckett, I'm sorry...
About my blood work?
We're waiting...
... meanwhile, I'd like to prepare you for a colonoscopy, so we can take a look inside.
Sounds delightful.
This is my partner. We keep records of hospital visits. Nothing personal.
Dr. Klenstein. It's not a pleasant procedure, but if the KS is causing the diarrhea, we ought to know right away.
I'm trying to help your "partner." You're not a member of his immediate family, I could have you removed from the ER.
He's upset, he's sorry.
It is, and it isn't, Charles. Macrosystem's new software copies all the bestknown elements of Kronos' spreadsheet program. If they're allowed to sell it, Kronos will get undersold right out of business. For me, the legal principle, involved is copyright infringement.
Bearing in mind that Bill Wright, the chairman of MacroSystems, is a close, personal friend of mine... which side of this mess would <u>you</u> desire to be on, Andy? And don't allow my very tight, personal relationship with Bill to influence your answer in any way.
Thanks, Charles.
No sweat, buddy.
Thanks for coming in.
Of course.
I know that, Charles.
More than your friend. Family.
We've been talking it over, Andy. Your future that is... We feel that, because we respect you so much, we have to be honest with you.
Honesty is always best.
Take it easy, Walter.
If you'd lost confidence in me, why did you give me the Kronos suit?
I hoped the challenge would improve your performance. You could say it was a carrot.
A carrot?!
You can save it for the jury, Charles. I want to hear you say, under oath, in front of a judge and a jury, I'm a bad lawyer. Gentlemen. Counselor.
Don't do this, Andy.
Longstreet's interested in the Harrisburg deal.
I'm seeing him this afternoon.
Thanks, you guys.
Yeah. Thanks, guys.
Aren't you giving an exam?
I said, don't worry about it.
I almost didn't make it to the bathroom, Miguel. I almost lost control right in front of everybody.
So what? It's nothing to be ashamed of. You have nothing to be ashamed of, okay?
It could be parasites, an infection...
A reaction to AZT...
Don't apologize for me.
He's not sorry, okay, fine. Why don't we see what we find out from the blood work? I'll work on getting a specimen, I'm sure hospital food could help in that direction. Maybe, by then, we'll hear from my doctor, and we'll go from there. Okay? Everybody happy?
That's the third time. I better call the office. Would you relax, please?
I am relaxed.
Why are you getting dressed?
You're not going to like this. Please try to smile...
Thanks for leaving school, and coming here, and... I will be back. An hour, tops.
You're going to the office?!
You're not smiling.
You're leaving the hospital? You're going into the office looking like that? Are you insane?
One hour!
Drew!
I promise!
Jerk... What did you say?
I said, "Everyone's going to die, Jimmy. But Drew's not going to die of AIDS. There's a cure around the corner, and he plans to be around to take advantage of it."
You got that right, Mikey... You still believe that, don't you?
Yes. I think it will be a simple solution. They'll put it in a syringe, inject it into your bloodstream. It'll neutralize the virus. It'll revitalize the immune system, and people with AIDS will become healthy again.
Hold still. Shit. The goddamn vein's clotted. We have to go the goddamn hospital, so they can change the goddamn catheter.
I have too much work to do. Skip the treatment.
We're not skipping this treatment.
I said, skip it, Michael. It's my treatment.
Fuck you.
Fuck you. This shit's probably not doing me any good anyway.
That shit's saving your life, you asshole!
What's wrong with you?
Close the law book.
I'm not going to close the
CLOSE THE FUCKING LAW BOOK!
ALLRIGHT IT'S CLOSED! Jesus!
The least you can do is look at me, while I'm sticking this shit into your arm. Forget the fucking case, one hour a day, and give me a little of your time.
You don't think there's much time left, do you?
That's not what I said.
You're scared. You think we're near the end.
No.
Maybe I should start making plans, is that what you think? Start planning my memorial service? "Begin to prepare for the inevitable."
Maybe you should think about it.
What's that mean?!
Maybe you should think about it.
I'm not going to die.
That's right. We're on the Positive Plan. You don't have a Fatal Disease, you have Manageable Illness.
You want me to give up? Let this thing turn us into <u>victims</u>?
Then, what <u>are</u> we, Drew?! The <u>winners</u>? "Ladies and gentlemen, the first prize of AIDS goes to Andrew Beckett and his lover Miguel..." Excuse me, I'm not your lover. I'm your Care Partner. FUCK!
I'm not ready to die.
Do you think I'm ready for it?! I hate this shit. I'm not a fucking martyr! I hate every goddamn part of it!
I'm ready...
Ready for what, baby?
Whatever.
I hope you're ready for "Studs," because that's what's on.
Why, Beckett?
Because they deserve to, Walter.
Thanks, Walter.
What's that on your forehead, pal?
Whacked with a racquetball. I appreciate your faith in my abilities.
You're right, I probably just misfiled...
Andy?
This time. What about next time?
There won't be a next time, I guarantee it.
Perhaps... you're right. I've certainly been busy. With the Kronos complaint, a preliminary injunction hearing and the Saunders trial all falling at the same time...
Some people think you have an attitude problem, Beckett.
Really? Who thinks that, sir?
Excuse me, Charles. With all due respect... this is... preposterous! It doesn't make any sense, it sounds as if we're talking about someone else. Pardon the lack of humility, but I've had the distinct impression I was kind of... one of the rising stars around here. And I feel that wasn't just my imagination. And I also think I deserve to know what's really going on here, Charles.
Oh, you're right, Beckett, you don't have an attitude problem.
Are we interrupting, Andy?
In a word, Bob...
Charles is right behind me.
If MacroSystems wins, an energetic, young company will be destroyed, five thousand Americans will be out of work. Moreover, the laws of copyright and antitrust were enacted to prevent exactly the kind of bullshit Macrosystems is trying to pull.
Andy, do you know who reps Kronos Inc.?
Bailey, Brackman.
Yes!
You'll have to get right on it, Andy, we're up against the statute of limitations.
Jesus.
I don't know what to do, Bob.
You'll never find it in the dark.
What in God's name... ?
Bob...
What's wrong with your face?
What's wrong with my face? You want to know what's wrong with my face? I've got a skin condition. Next question, Bob? No more questions? Fine. Now can you help me find the complaint?
Allright. Calm down.
Sorry...
What was the file name?
KROone.
Maybe you mistyped the name when you were saving it. We'll try combinations of those letters...
Do you really think so, Andy?
Yes, Bob, I do. Excuse me? Am I being fired?
Geoff? Anybody see my boy?
Right here, Mom...
How long have you been here?
Couple minutes. I saw the last shot. That was pretty cool.
How did it go with your father last night?
Good. He said he'd be over for dinner at eight... I mean... he misses you, Mom...
I miss him too...
I know, Mom.
You know everything, don't you?
Mom...
I came back for you, Geoff. We're going to be together again.
What's his name?
Zowie.
I've never seen anybody punch Clyde before.
He pissed me off.
Sorry about your mom. I couldn't handle not having my mom around. Just having Gus...
I swear, sometimes I wish Gus was dead...
You shouldn't ever say that about your parents, not even your Dad.
Stepdad. Gus is my stepdad.
What was all that stuff about dead people coming back to life?
Nothing. It's just an old ghost story. Let's get out of here...
Is this a good spot?
I'm not burying him here...
Why not?
There's a better place...
This is it... I wasn't sure if it even really existed.
What did?
The old Indian burial ground.
Come on, that's just a bullshit story. You said so yourself...
What if it's not bullshit? If I bury Zowie there, and it works... ...he'll come back alive.
Drew, I know your dog died, but... get a grip, man, you're freaking me out.
Look, if there was even one chance in a million it'd work, wouldn't you want to try?
You want me to help?
You have to bury your own. That's the way the Indians did it. It's like a rule...
I've never had anyone die before... ...but I guess you get over it. I mean, eventually...
You never get over it.
It's getting pretty late. We better go.
Yeah...
Maybe he wasn't dead when we buried him.
He was dead. You know he was.
You think my Dad'll figure out why he's not getting better?
You think he'd believe it if he did?
How can he not have a heartbeat?
Maybe it takes a while...
It's weird...
What do you mean?
It's like he's not Gus anymore. He's different. You know, like Zowie...
What was that all about? You think he's trying to scare us?
I don't know but I'm not taking any chances...
Do you think everyone that came back would be like Gus?
I don't know... ...maybe it depends on what you were like before you...
Dies?
I gotta go back and do my chores...
Go later...
You ever think about running away?
All the time.
Damn dog stuck his nose in on my rabbits and they ganged up on him. I swear that dog's an idiot.
Is he gonna be okay?
Drew, I don't remember inviting Zowie in for dinner.
Just until he heals up?
Not that much appreciation. I thought we were gonna tone down that flabby ass.
Hey, I'm so sorry I'm not the stud that you are.
Your momma's worried sick over you. You take off in the middle of the night, you don't show up for school. What're you trying to prove?
I'm not trying to prove anything. I was burying my dog.
Zowie...
Say your goodbyes. Zowie's going outside. You're grounded, buddy. That's the new law.
How long ago did this guy retire?
It's been a few years.
What's wrong?!
Nothing. I just got spooked by a bunch of furballs.
What's a lunch cost these days? You want ten?
Sure.
You nervous? New town, new school. I know it must be pretty hard for you...
I'll be fine, Dad.
Hey! How was your first day at school?
It sucked.
What?
You alright?
I think so.
Your Mom and I loved each other, Geoff. Don't ever think that we didn't.
I still can't believe she's dead...
Who was that?
Remember Zowie, Drew's dog? He got hurt again. I'm going over to take a look at him.
Hey! Where're you off to?
I'm going out, Dad!
Just out.
"Out." Well that's great, Geoff. Look, I've been letting you get away with a lot these past few weeks, but I'm not going to stand for crap like this. I don't care if it's Halloween... it's a school night, and if you do this again...
I'm really tired, Dad... can I just go to sleep?
Geoff, dinner's ready! Geoff?!
I'm not hungry.
What are you talking about?
I can bring her back. The same way Drew and me brought Zowie back...
Geoff, this is crazy. Zowie didn't die.
He did. We buried him. There's a place out in the woods... if you bury something there, it comes back alive.
All set?
All set.
So where're we going?
Anywhere but here.
Is something wrong?
Uh... no. You just... look different than you sounded on the phone. Please, come in.
I'm real excited about working for you Mr. Matthews...
Well we're glad to have you, Marjorie. You can call me Chase, by the way.
Out?
He's probably going up to the Pet Sematary. Kids've been going out there on Halloween night for years.
What do they do up there?
Oh, you know... drink beer, tell ghost stories. They try and spook each other out, talking about zombies and things... It's no big deal, Chase. I did it when I was young.
What happened to you?
I had a little runin with Zowie.
You sure did...
I hope he doesn't have rabies.
He doesn't. I don't know what he has, but I'm hoping to God it's not infectious...
What?
I don't know what you expected to find, Matthews. There's nothing wrong with the antigens, nothing to indicate an unusual death...
Wait, there must be some mixup. He was... the dog is alive.
Not this dog. There wasn't enough oxygen in those red cells to pump life into a flea.
You took over for Doctor Yolander?
Yes... why?
Because the last person that sent me blood from a dead animal was Yolander...
Did she always have reporters following her around like this?
Pretty much so.
I hear you moved into town.
I wanted to get Geoff out of L.A. Just start things over, you know?
That's Renee alright.
I suppose so.
When I was young I thought cats were the girls and dogs were the boys.
There are three more girls where that one came from looking for homes.
Thee facial lacerations should heal up pretty quickly. I'll give you som antibiotic cream
Drew, he's your dog. Are you listening to this?
I hear you've got Marjorie Hargrove working for you now.
How'd you know that?
I was building a doggy door.
God damn it Gus, you dug up my wife! What the fuck is going on around here?!
Why are you bothering me about this? Can't you leave it be?
I... um...
...the pathologist... he said that you had reported a similar incident... with a cat...
The Creed cat, that's right. Bastard's name was "Church". Let me guess. Your dog's tissue isn't healing, pupils aren't dilating... maybe you can't find a heartbeat?
Exactly! I thought it might be some sort of blood condition... immune deficiency or...
You want some advice, friend? You get in your car, you pick up your family... and you get the hell out of that town.
Well... uh... thanks...
Believe what you saw, Matthews. The dog was dead.
My God... ...how is that possible? You have to help me, Doctor Yolander. I don't know what I'm dealing with here! They've dug up my wife...
Are you Peggy Sue Kelcher?
I was once. Richard!? Richard Norvik? I didn't recognize you.
You look exactly the same.
I just did it for tonight. I don't normally dress like this.
Hello. Nice to meet you. Please call me Peggy. I'm Peggy Bodell now.
Where's Charlie? I was in town about a year ago and caught one of his commercials. Really made me laugh.
He's not here. We're getting divorced.
Gee. I'm sorry to hear that.
The only time people like Dolores used to pay any attention to me was to laugh at me or insult me. That guy, Doug Snell, who shook my hand when we walked in, he used to call me a foureyed worm.
Well, you showed them. You're rich and famous and successful. And you have a beautiful wife.
You were always friendly to me. I appreciated that. You know, this used to be a fantasy of mine.
What was?
Dancing with you.
You're a sweet man, Richard.
I guess part of us never really leaves high school.
You know, I never told anybody this, but I always had a feeling that when you die, before you go to heaven, you get a chance to fly around high school for a while.
Congratulations on the math contest, Richard.
It really wasn't that difficult.
I have to talk to you. It's very important.
I'm not doing any tutoring this year. I'm too busy.
It's not that. Can we meet after school? Please?
All right. I'll be in the physics lab. Make it fourthirty. I have a rocket club meeting.
What a great kite.
I'm writing a book on kite construction. What did you want to talk about?
I want to ask you a question. Do you think...time travel is possible?
Are you doing some kind of science project?
Sort of.
Well... in a Newtonian framework, the possibilities were limited, but with the advent of relativity theory, the idea of absolute time can no longer be reasonably affirmed.
And then, there's Richard's Burrito.
What's that?
That's my own theory based on a Mexican food called the burrito. I had it once when my parents took me to Disneyland.
I know what a burrito is.
Well, I think time is like a burrito. Sometimes it just folds over on itself and one part touches the other.
What's inside?
You can till it with whatever you want. From illusions to memory, from experience to innocence, from happiness to the entire universes
So you think time travel is possible? For people?
Absolutely. People, dogs, elephants.
Listen, you've gotta keep this a secret. You can't tell a soul. Promise?
Okay. I promise.
This is serious. Nobody can know. Ah, I've returned from the future. I traveled back here 25 years.
You probably are crazy. Wait a minute. Is this some kind of joke? I know what you all, think of me.
You have a blind grandfather. One day you're going to invent a machine that reads books for blind people. I read about it. You're going to be famous. You're going to invent a lot of things.
How, did you know about my grandfather?
Because I'm telling you the truth. I know what's going to happen. There's going to be test tube babies and heart transplants. And an American named Neil Armstrong is going to walk on the moon. On July 20, 1969.
Holy Toledo! That's six years ahead of schedule!
But when did you leave? Are you here until then? Were you there until now? What direction are you going in? Are you a moving point on an infinite line extending into the past? Can anyone do it?
I don't know.
I'd be very careful if I were you. You don' t want to fall into the clutches of some madman with plans to manipulate your brain.
That's why I was getting a divorce.. What I really think is that I had a heart attack at the reunion and died.
You look pretty good for a corpse.
Come on, Richard, I'm serious.
You're giving me the creeps.
Am I dead or not?
There's one way to find out.
What're you doing?
Confucious says, The way out is through the door. There's a truck. There's your door.
Okay, you're not dead, but according to every law of science what you say happened to you is impossible.
What if it's beyond science? What it it's God?
You're a molecule in chaos, a discontinuent aberration. Maybe you've just got powers of precognition. Well, maybe you're just out of whack.
I told you, I've already lived my life. I don't know how or why I'm here, but you have to help me get back. I want to get back to my real life!
All right, I'll work on it, I'll, do some research. But in the meantime, don't get crazy.
I'm trying. I'll see you tomorrow.
What if you're not here tomorrow?
The way I see it, you have an unparalleled opportunity to become the richest woman in the world.
I'm just not the type. Besides, I want to get out of here.
But you have a vision. Don't you want to help your parents?
I tried to tell them, but they wouldn't listen to me.
I'm talking about invention, no investment. I know what people think of me. Mr. Spasmatician. Dick the Square Root. I'll show them. You said I was going to be a millionaire. And you're gonna help!
Richard, take it easy.
No offense, but for a person who says she's lived an extra lifetime, you certainly are thick. Money is power.. Money makes people respect you...
How come you never ask me any important questions? Don't you wonder if there's going to be a nuclear war? Or a cure for cancer? What about your family? What about people?
I'm curious, but I don't want to know. Jeez, I hope you haven't been telling people what's going to happen to them.
Give me some credit, will you?
Good. You're discreet. I like that in a partner.
Wbat're you talking about?
Look it's very simple. You tell me everything that hasn't been invented yet, and I'll invent it. We'll be partners. Fiftyfifty.
Sixtyforty.
You're taking advantage of a minor.
When do we start?
Ah. This is a biggie. Forget sneakers. Running shoes, jogging shoes, tennis shoes. Fifty to two hundred dollars a pair.
Come on. You can't be serious.
There are major fortunes to be made here. Leisure time and lifestyles.
Are you talking ~about exercise? Like gym?
Not for you. Okay, there's lots more.
You don't have to use pig Latin! Nobody could possibly know what we're talking about.
All right. These are the choices: microwave ovens, pocket calculators, Walkmans, digital watches and miniature TV's.
Oh. And huge portable radios. Everything else gets small, but for some reason, portable radios get enormous.
Richard! They don't have any! They never heard of them! Isn't that wonderful?
What are you talking about?
The wave of the future! I've decided on our first fortune! I'll see you later. You just think high tech.
High tech. I like the sound of that.
Hi, Richard.
What are you doing?
Jogging. I was running, now I'm jogging.
That's what you were talking about yesterday? Everybody does that in the future?
Yep. It's going to be a law. I broke up with Charlie last night.
That's terrific. You did it. You really changed the course of your destiny.
It was an unfair fight. He didn't have a chance. I'm taking a real gamble. I loved him for a long, long time.
Cheer up. Now you can give some other guy a shot. Make it up to him later and buy him a yacht.
For God's sake, forget the money! I'm going crazy! I'm a walking anachronism. I'm a puddle of deja I'm worried about my kids, Scott must be scared to death, I think my daughter's doing drugs again. I can't have any fun here, I don't have that innocence any more. I can't keep all this in anymore. I feel Like I'm going to explode.
Look, the best scientific mind in this country is working on your case. May I make a suggestion?
Like what?
Suggestion! Hypnotic suggestion! Why didn't I think o~ that before?
What do you know about hypnosis?
Everything. This is perfect. The subconscious mind remembers all. You can give me more information on microchips and then pinpoint what happened at the reunion. Maybe that'll give us a clue on how to get you back.
Look, I'm desperate. I'll try anything. But what if you can't snap me out of it?
No offense, but you're pretty out of it now.
You are completely relaxed. When I count to three, you will open your eyes. One... two... three. We'll start with something easy. What is your name?
Peggy Sue Kelcher. Or, Peggy Bodell. I'm not sure.
Oh boy. Peggy, what are microchips?
Ah..... they're very tiny... they look like a fingernail made out of an erector set...
What will they be made of?
I think it's called silicon. Charlie told me that.
Silicon is from sand.
We were lying in the sand. It was my eighteenth birthday... We were so awkward... I would have married him anyway...
In the future, will you have to marry a girl before you have sex with her?
No. The Pill will change all that. Then he wouldn't have blamed me. We were just too young.
You mean you'll give a girl a pill and she'll want to have sex?
No. The Pill will be for birth control. But girls do like sex. Maybe not the first time.
Will you take of f your blouse?
Yes, every day. Maybe I shouldn't have worn that dress? I told Beth it was a bad idea. That's why they made me Queen.
No! Yes! I'll be right out, Dad. Oh shit! Peggy, I'm going to snap you out of it.
I couldn't help it I loved him.
One... two... three. You are now awake.
Richard! You should be ashamed of yourself.
Me? You went crazy! You started taking your clothes off. I was putting them back on for you.
That's just perfect isn't it? Did it work? Did you find out why I came back?
I think it has something to do with your birthday. You were rambling. I didn't understand the rest.
God dammit! How'm I gonna got out of here?
Hey! Do you have any idea how much those beakers cost? I usually charge for hypnosis.
Oh, go feel up your hamsters! I hear rodents put out.
What's the matter?
It's all, gone wrong, nothing's working out.
Not true. I think I'm making real progress on the microchip.
You were meant to. You're one of those fortunate people that good things happen to. I have to get out of here.
I came to say goodbye.
Goodbye? Where're you going? What about our partnership? I'm making real progress with the microchip.
You were meant to You're one of those fortunate people that good things happen to.
So are you. You've got a vision.
Vision? I'm a walking anachronism! I've upset my parents. I miss my kids. I could be trapped here forever! And poor Charlie...I got pregnant on my 18th birthday and we had to get married. Tomorrow's my birthday! I've got to get out of here now.
Did you break up with Charlie?
Yeah, yeah. I'm taking a big gamble. I've loved him for a long, long time.
Okay. Why don't we do something visionary. Change your destiny, Peggy Sue. Change your destiny and marry me.
No! No! No! Peggy Sue got married! Case closed. I don't want to marry anybody. Goodbye Richard.
Wait! I'll go with you!
You can't. You're going to be Valedictorian.
I remember that dress.
Rosalie Testa!
I remember when you got that locket, too. You were so excited I think you showed it to the whole school.
You have an incredible memory.
What's up?
I think you should give up diving. It's dangerous.
Don't be silly, I'm the best in the county.
I know you are, but you have to stop. I couldn't tell you before, I didn't know if I should. But you have to stop before you hurt yourself.
I spend three hours a day practicing. I have trainers, I know what I'm doing.
But accidents can happen.
Not to me they don't. I'm going to win the State, then the. Nationals, and then I'm going to the Olympics.
Rosalie, please, listen to me! You have to stop.
You're sick. You should go to the nurse. I'm going to tell Miss Dennis.
What are you doing?
I'm just happy to see you.
Come on! Mom said you were sick. You're never happy to see me.
I'm sorry about that. I really want us to be closer. I have enough unresolved relationships in my... life.
Teenagers are weird. And you're the weirdest.
Let's do something together.. Do you want to play Monopoly? Or Careers... Clue... Snakes and Ladders?
Okay, what do you want? What dumb favor do you want me to do?
It's unbelievable. The man never ages.
Look at Kenny Rossi. Isn't he dreamy? I wish he'd break up with Arlene. She thinks she's so great.
Don't eat the red ones.
Why not? They're my favorite.
They're bad for you. They cause...red lips.
And the butter.
You know, you two are wonderful parents. I'm really going to try to behave myself.
Mom, sit down for a minute. This is so nice, all of us being together again like this.
Can I tell Diane that Peggy Sue got drunk or is that a deep family secret? Well?
You think this'll cheer Dad up?
Of course, he'll love it. You're a terrific artist.
Mom!
The nurse called and said you'd be coming home.
I have a note.
How do you feel?
I'm excused.
Why don't you go lie down for a while.
Mom!
Chanel Number Five. That always reminds me of home.
Of course, dear. You're home now.
I'm home now.
My little baby. Don't try to grow up so fast.
Oh Mom, I forgot you were ever so young.
What happened to your hair? You have such a pretty face. Why are you always trying to cover it up?
Oh. I forgot.
You're looking pretty chipper this morning.
I'm still here, aren't I? I may as well enjoy myself. I'm going to go to school today. Dad, I want to apologize for yesterday. The car is a classic. Use it in the best of health.
When did you start drinking coffee?
Oh. Ah...recently. All the kids drink it.
Oh yeah. Charlie. How am I going to handle him?
What's the matter? Did you two have a fight?.
Sort of.
What about?
The house payments.
Who was that man?
It was nobody. Ah... he's a poll, taker. I'm thinking of voting Democrat this year. But don't mention it to your father. How was school today?
It was great to see everybody again. But it's so boring and regimented. Most of what they teach is useless. The worst thing was lunch.
Would you get that, dear?
Sure, Mom. Hello.
Peggy! What's the matter? Who is it?
It's Grandma. I can't talk to her now. I'm sorry, Grandma.
What happened to you?
I had a dream that Grandma died.
Well, she is getting on, but she's fine. I told her you weren't feeling well yesterday. She called to find out how you are.
She did? I love her so much, and I haven't seen her in such a long time. And Grandpa Barney. Is he all, right?
Yes, he's fine, too. You saw them at Easter.
I'm sorry, Mom. I'll call Grandma back and apologize.
That's a good girl... I hate to see you so upset. Tell me, sweetheart. Are you having problems with Charlie? You mentioned something this morning.
I'm confused about a lot of things right now. Charlie's only one of them.
Is Charlie pressuring you to do things you don't think you should be doing?
What do you mean?
Peggy, do you know what a penis is? Stay away from it.
Charlie's downstairs. Why aren't you ready?
For what?
Maddy's party.
I don't feel very festive.
You accepted an invitation, Maddy's one of your best friends, and I baked the Rice Krispie squares.
Where have you been?
I went for a drive. Up in the hills.
I'm not the maid!
Way to go, Mom!
Would they go over my girdle or under?
Instead of a girdle. And light as a feather.
Isn't that awfully forward?
We've got to move fast. This is an idea whose time has come.
You know, dear, I think the pantyhose is a wonderful idea, but the next time you come up with something, please don't stay out all night. Just tell us. We'll believe you.
Mom, how about a machine that's like your blender, only it slices vegetables, kneads dough, chops meat and even make fresh pasta?
No, just a friend of mine. I don't think he Likes JellO.
What does Charlie think about that?
You know Mom, it's okay to have male friends. Besides, it's over with me and Charlie.
What? When did it happen? Your dad and I always expected you two to get married.
Yeah, I know Peggy Sue gets married. Case closed. Period. Mom, if you could live your life over again, would you do the same thing? Get married and settle down after high school?
Sheerotards. Catchy name, isn't it? Like leotards.
He's a liar! He has no such thing! It's my own fault. I should have had it patented first. He's a crook, damnit.
Jack, take it easy. She gave blood at school today. Maybe she's just a little lightheaded.
This is not giving blood. This is drunk.
A new car. We can't afford a new car.
Don't worry, it's just a seasonal slump.
You have four seasons, you have four slumps.
I don't need your charity. I don't need your grandmother's jewelry or your parents money how could you do that?
Please don't shout.
Does everybody have to hear?
I want everybody to hear because I don't have anything to be ashamed of.
Jack, I was just trying to help.
We'll make it, we'll be fine.
Peggy Sue, watch your mouth.
Mr. Fitzsimmons is a very prominent man.
Young lady, you're drunk!
Just a little. I've had a tough day.
I don't see the humor in this. Go to your room immediately. You're grounded.
Grounded? Ha! The story of my life. I don't wanna go to my room. I wanna import Japanese cars. I wanna go to Liverpool and discover the Beatles.
Dad, I never knew you had a sense of humor.
Evelyn, put her to bed.
Thank you.. I accept your apology with the hope that what went on yesterday will never happen again.
That would be impossible.
You're so young, this is not the time to start acquiring bad habits.
Mom, is there any coffee left?
If all the kids jumped off a bridge, would you do that too?
I think I'm way ahead of them.
Damn that Charlie I
It's not Charlie. It's me.
Peggy, let me ask you something. You're not... expecting are you?
At my age? Don't be silly.
Thank God for that.
Dad.. it's not a big deal. Didn't you ever stay out all night when you were young?
Yes but I was a boy. And I still had hell to pay.
Calm down. Just listen for a minute.. Please.
All right. But this better be good.
I want to help with the family finances. I want you to buy some stocks. And gold. By 1980 gold is going to be worth eight hundred dollars an ounce. Then you sell.
Do you know how ridiculous you sound? First of all, it's illegal for U.S. citizens to buy gold. And in the second place, the price of gold is regulated by the government.
I think they're going to deregulate it.
That's your problems The more women think, the more trouble they get into.
Oh boy, that's another thing that's going to change. Who's going to think for us? Our husbands? You know, you treat Mom like a maid. It's not entirely your fault. Those were the attitudes in the fifties, and that's the way you raised me. But give Nancy a break, encourage her to go to art school.
I've heard just about enough of this lunacy! Go to your room!
Listen Dad, please. Buy IBM, buy Polaroid, buy Apple Computer. No, no. Not yet. Buy Xerox!
Evelyn, take her to her room!
Hi, Dad.
Doing some shopping?
For me?
Open it.
I closed my Christmas club.
Good, you got your money out of that greedy bank.
I wanted to apologize for this morning.
It's hard to believe you're going to be eighteen. Want an eskimo pie? Or a creamsicle? I'd come home from the store and there's little you running up to me. I'd give you a dime and you'd promise never to grow up.
Quiet today?
This morning was good.
The hat business is in trouble.
I, that what all that nonsense was about this morning? You're worried about my business?
Yes.
That's very thoughtful, honey. It's just a slump. Things will pick up.
But when John F. Kennedy's elected President, men'1l stop wearing hats.
Kennedy's a Catholic. He'll never win.
He'll win.
Richard Nixon's going to be President. Nixon wears hats.
Ta da! Pantyhose! The death of the garter belt! Of course, once they're manufactured they'll look better than this. What do you think?
This is your great invention? Would you wear those things?
That's all well and good, but we don't have the money to manufacture them.
You need a partner. There's a friend of mine at school whose father makes seat covers for cars, Mr. Fitzsimmons. I've invited him and his family over for dinner tomorrow night.
You mean to tell me that you invited this Mr. Fitzsimmons over to talk about investing his money in your cockamamie idea?
Wrong, Dad. Your idea.
How did it go with the pantyhose?
It's the darndest thing. Ed knew what they were immediately. As a matter of fact, he said he's got a product like that in development right now.
Oh no!
Didn't call, them pantyhose, though. What was it, Evelyn?
Oh, you're both so naive.
Look young lady, I grew up through the depression. I fought in the second World War. Six days a week I get up and deal with the public, the bank and the bill collectors. And on the seventh day, when God rests, I don't have to listen to my daughter calling me a fool!
I was impressed with what you said in English class today.
Gilfond's okay, except he thinks Hemingway's great Literature.
You don't?
He's a fisherman! The most overrated writer of the century. I mean, he's the perfect American author fat, violent, drunk...
Maybe you're confusing his life with his work.
A writer's life is his work. Jack Kerouac doesn't have to kill a bull to have something to write about. He's out there feeling, burning... grooving on life!
The young man leaned back in his chair. No bulls would die today.
What're you doing here anyway?
Coffee and a donut.
I thought chicks like you traveled in packs.
Hey, man, I'm a hip chick.
This is great reefer.
Yeah. I'm surprised. It's really old... Travels well though. You know, the world looks a lot better from up here.
The world is fantastic. It's the ultimate absurd circus. I am shot from a cannon into the energy.
What are you shooting for?
Maximum intensity. Yeah. I can't wait to get out of here. I'm gonna write. I'm gonna check out of this bourgeois motel. Push myself away from the dinner table and say 'No more JellO for me, Mom.'
Don't you get along with your parents?
The only thing my father digs is cold, green money. All my mother cares about is her standing at the country club.
They care about you. They're just a different generation.
Hey what's with you? I thought you were cool. You rode my bike. You blew some pot. What's your scene Miss Majorette? You gonna marry Mr. Blue Impala and graze around with all the other sheep for the rest of your life?
I already did that. I want to be a dancer, I want to dance.
A ray of oneness piercing the solitude. Falling bodies in the ecstasy of flesh. You'll be a chapter in my memoirs of desire.
Is that one of your poems?
No, I just made that up. Do you want to hear one?
I'd love to.
Okay. Here's a new one. It's called Tenderness. I couldn't sleep so I thought I'd scream Betrayed by a kiss, sucking pods of bitterness. In the madhouse of Dr. Dread Razor shreds of rat puke fall On my bare arms I'm sorry. I guess I was trying to impress you.
That was quite an evening. Bourgeois, phony, decadent, stupid.
I shouldn't have put you through that. It must have been agony. Let's do something.
Five more weeks of school. And ten minutes past graduation I'm gone. To freedom.
For everyone.
Now listen, this is the plan. As soon as school is finished we go to Utah and...
Utah? I thought you'd be going to New York or Paris. What's in Utah?
Rita. I met her last summer. She's cool. You'll really dig her. She's got this great little cabin in the hills, just outside of Provo where she raises chickens. I'll write and the two of you can take care of the chickens to support us.
I can't do that.
Why not? Polygamy's legal in Utah.
I hate chickens.
But what about the other night? We were like two stars in the same constellation.
Michael, you and I are light years apart. You should go, but not with me.
But we had heat baby. Passion! Fire! We owe it to ourselves to fuse together. At least one more time.
That's a terrific line. You're going to be a wonderful writer.
You think so?
Yes. We had a glorious night together. One day you'll remember and write about it.
I can dig that. Bittersweet perfection. Dogs of lust on leashes of memory... yeah.
It's Charlie!
What a treat.
Ssh. He's great.
Peggy Sue's still stuck on treble without a cause.
I thought I knew everything about him.
Can we split now?
I can dig you being uptight about Rita and Utah. That's cool. But I've got to warn you about something.
What?
My father. He's not just the ultimate square. He's a total crook.
It was Beth's idea.
I wish I had the nerve. And the figure.
Beth's boyfriend is playing in the band.
It must run in the family.
Don't get your hopes up.
Come on, where's your enthusiasm?
How come we're your best friends and we had to find out about you and Michael Fitzsimmons from Dolores?
She's unbelievable. Who needs satellites when we've got Dolores's mouth?
Yeah. He's so cool and mysterious.
He's very interesting. For all his pretending to be a tough guy, he's really got the soul of a poet.
Cool it kids. He's free to see other girls, if he wants.
But I always thought that you would marry Charlie, Carol would marry Walter, and I would marry Arthur. We'd all live on the same street and take our kids to the park together and have barbecues every Sunday. It'll spoil everything if you and Charlie break up. That Michael doesn't look like the barbecue type.
I'm not going to marry him. I just went out with him once. I know! Why don't we go to the movies tonight. Just us girls. It'll be fun.
Fine. ) Grandma, would you teach me how to make strudel?
That's a day's work. But if that's what you want, maybe we can do it tomorrow for your birthday.
You know, Peggy Sue, your mother said you had a dream that I died.
I wish she hadn't.
I'm not afraid. I know exactly when I'm going to die.
If you believe it, darling, then I believe. Being young can be just as confusing as being old. The things that happened to me fifty years ago are more on my mind than what happened yesterday.
But I'm remembering the future.
Right now you're just browsing through time. Choose the things you'll be proud of. The things that Last.
My children make me happy. I miss them so much. Beth. Scott and Beth. I'm going to name my daughter after you.
It was my idea, Grandma. I always wondered what went on at those lodge meetings.
He won't tell me, but I've got my suspicions. And I don't want any of that. Don't keep her out late.
Hey Terry, what is that? Did Peggy make it up? I've never seen that on Bandstand.
What if we're witnessing the end of touch dancing?
Terry, slow down.
Okay.
Terry! Slow down.
What, why?
There's Peggy with Michael Fitzsimmons.
That commie beatnik? What's she doing with him? Wait'll I tell Charlie.
First a nerd and then a weirdo. What a bunch of nose pickers. I'll tell Charlie.
Did you study for the test?
Test?
Carol and I saw you with that creep, Richard, today.
First of all, Richard is not a creep. He happens to be an exceptional person. If any of you gave him half a chance, you'd find that out.
God, Peggy, you're so unformed you're practically fetal. You're just taking pity on him 'cause he has no friends.
Dolores, can't you be a little kinder to people? You don't even know the boy. If you weren't so neurotic and insecure, maybe you'd shut up for a while and show some compassion.
Are you for real?
Touchy, touchy!
Sorry. These fountain pens are so tricky.
Oh! You did that on purpose! I hate you. Go gargle with razor blades!
I beg your pardon?
Take a long walk on a short pier.
Have a nice day.
Hello, Charlie.
Hello, sir. How are things at the hat store?
Fine, thanks. Come on in. I want to talk to you.
Yes, sir.
She seems confused, irresponsible, overemotional. My wife says that's the way girls act sometimes.
Yes, sir. But that's what I like about her. She's not like all the other girls at school.
Charles, in spite of your adolescent infatuation with music, we've always regarded you a a fine young man. We've trusted you with our daughter.
Yes, sir. Trust is a twoway street. In the past two years I've been pleased to note that you and Mrs. Kelcher have, uh, fulfilled your sacred trust of being good parents to the, uh, woman I plan to take off your hands.
We think this party might cheer her up. Just make sure you know what's expected of you.
What would that be, sir?
Show her a good time, but for God's sake restrain yourself.
Of course.
And we're here on the couch...
Don't say that...
We're here on the sofa bed...
Charlie...
...to record how much we love each other. Sitting beside me is the cutest majorette in the history of the world. And she would Like to say something.
Come on Peggy. Say what we rehearsed.
I can't. I'm too embarrassed.
But you love me don't you?
Yeah. Come on Charlie, turn it off.
And nothing will ever change that.
There's something pathetic parked in front of my house.
Come off it, Peggy. And what do you mean your house? This is my house. I paid for it, I'm still paying for it.
I'm still waiting for the mortgage check.
I mailed it to you on Wednesday.
Well, today's Saturday and it's still not here.
Jesus, Peggy. Take it easy. I'm not used to that stuff. You always did the bills. Blame the damn post office.
You got a Tab?
I don't buy them anymore. You were the only one who drank them.
You don't want them? They're going to make a big comeback any minute. Mark my words, these lamps are going to...
I know. Put Scott through college.
I'll think of a way to sell, them. One day.
Are you taking Janet to the reunion tonight?
I'm not going.
I vant to suck your blood. I also vant to suck your Twinkie.
Charlie! Am I dead?
No. You are the undead. You will live forever if you give me your Twinkie. Come on, let's have it. You hate them anyway.
How do you feel?
Pretty strange.
Not now, Charlie. I've got a headache. Get used to the word. Roll it around your tongue for a years.
Hey, I can take a hint. You look great today.
You drive like a maniac!
I call this the staccato.
Not that I'm glad you were sick, but I had a chance to do some thinking last night.
Oh yeah?
You know. About what we said on Tuesday. It makes a lot of sense.
Refresh my memory.
How could you forget? We talk about seeing other people and you forget?
Maybe I blocked it out.
I can understand that.. But please don't start crying again.
It's not going to be forever. I figure three years is long enough. I can see it the music pans out. And right after graduation we should start seeing other people. Kind of comparison shop before we settle down and get married. Know what I mean?
Why wait?
Well, we got the prom coming up, all these parties. We shouldn't upset our parents?
They'll learn to live with it.
Want me to drive you home later?
Would you?
Would I?!! Why I oughta...
Looking good out there.
Thanks.
I noticed you were giving me the silent treatment at lunch. I guess I deserved it. I've been thinking about my three year plan and I think it's unworkable. I must have been delirious.
I thought it had a lot of merit.
In the abstract maybe. Get a grip on yourself! But when I imagine you going out with other guys, I feel... ah...
Rejected, worthless, miserable.
Yeah. Like that.
Good.
Where did you get that sweater?
Great, isn't it?
It's really Fifties. You sort of clash with the world.
Hey! What's the fun of being a teenager if you can't dress weird? And we're going to have fun tonight, right?
Right. I promised my mother.
Is this slow enough for you?
Charlie, how are you?
I'm fine Peggy Sue. And how are you? Are we talking on the phone? Are we pen pals?
Seriously. What's it like to be eighteen?
Charlie, what do you think of Richard Norvik?
Is he gonna help you with that physics stuff?
He's trying.
Hey! Who needs physics when we've got chemistry?
Come on, let's dance.
There isn't a girl in school that can hold a candle to you..
You're pretty charming when you want to be.
Yeah I know. But I don't have to flatter you. It just feels right. You're the perfect girl for me. As in is, was and always will be. I'm glad dancing was invented. You know the first dances were rituals. Like fertility rites.
Mmm. This is nice. I always loved the way you kiss. I missed you.
Your eyes look like silver pools of moonlight. And the tide rushes in.
You really love me, don't you?
You know I do. I even wrote you into my will.
Charlie, let's make love.
What?! You mean sex?! Intercourse? You want to have intercourse! Last weekend you said... What time is it?
A lot's happened since last weekend.
But you're the one who wanted to wait till we got married. And you were right. We should wait.
I probably meant it when I said it. Doesn't Lucky Chuckie want to come out?
Who?
You know. Your love machine... the throbbing thrill hammer... your thing!
You mean my wang? Listen, it's running real late.
This is a mistake. We better forget it.
You're damn right! Jesus! Peggy! You sure know how to spoil a mood.
I'm sorry Charlie.
Save it.
What do you know about classical music?
Nothing.. Selling is selling.
Charlie. About last nights..
Forget it. I've been thinking. Girls must go through that stuff too. Sometimes when I look at you I feel like an animal. Maybe my dad's right. Teenagers are nuts.
But I'm not. I'm a grown woman with a lifetime of emotional experiences you couldn't possibly understand.
Yeah, I know. Girls mature faster than guys. But last night, I was the one who put on the brakes. And you know why?
Why?
Because nothing else matters. That's the great thing about love. Every time we argue, every time something goes wrong, and I know that I'm not perfect either, things just work out better in the end. Cause you're my baby and I love you.
What am I going to do with you?
Don't be cruel to a heart that's true.
Charlie. I just had the strangest dream.
I have to talk to you..
What are you doing here?
Let's go down to the basement.
I want to know what's going on. Dolores told me that you and that scuzzball Michael Fitzsimmons...
I bumped into him after you dropped me off Last night. I didn't feel like going home, so we went for a ride.
Then it's true, dammit! I had a miserable time tonight 'cause of you. When the Monotones did "Book of Love Chapter Four you break up, won't you give it just one more chance..." I'm thinking Did we break up? 'Cause if we did, I don't even know about it!. I thought we cleared all that up yesterday. Did that Maynard G. Beatnik give you what you wanted?
You know I never could stand your sarcasm.
You're going to blow it, Peggy Sue. Nobody treats Charlie Bodell like this.
And why do you always refer to yourself in the third person, like Napoleon? How come it always turns into an argument with you?
Look, I've got the hair, got the eyes, got the teeth, I got the car. I'm the lead singer, I'm the man.
Charlie,. I've been trying to postpone this. But what's the point? It's over. I don't want to hurt you. This is very hard for me. I'm doing this for both of us. I really want you to be happy.
I will be happy if I have you. I love you.
That won't make any difference. We just can't live together. And you had the nerve to drive up with that bimbo Janet.
What are you talking about? Who's Janet?
I just can't trust you anymore.
What about everything I said to you this afternoon...
That's just it. You can always get to me. There's this window in my heart and every time I leave it open, you climb in. Unless I close it now, nothing's ever going to be different!
But what has to be different?
Everything. I have a good head for business, I should be franchising the bakery. And I want you to give me your word that whatever happens, you'll go to college. And finish.
What! What about the group and my singing career? What about me?
I'm trying to save you years of frustration... waiting for a big break... no. Waiting for that big disappointment so you could blame it all on me.
You don't know zip! You think I'm going to end up selling appliances like my father? Chasing women around the store. I've got to give it a shot. Why are you trying to kill the two things that mean the most to me? Until yesterday you loved me and you loved us. ) What the hell has changed? For two years I've done nothing but love you. I'll show you, I'm going to be just like Fabian!
What're you doing here?
I wanted to talk to you, and I have one last thing to take care of at school. Then I'm going to... Good dog, Rusty. Good dog.
Rusty's dead. That's Ajax
Oh. I guess I always liked Rusty better. Could you give me a ride to school?
Sorry, the Blue Thunder's out of commission for a while.
Well, how about a walk, Charlie Bell..
How'd you know about that?
I was at Lena's last night. You were terrific.
Not terrific enough. What were you doing in that part of town? Who were you with?
What were You doing there? You never told me you were singing with an R and B group.
Hey. I guess there's a lot of things we don't know about each other.
I'd forgotten how much music meant to you.
That's real big of you.
Stop being defensive. I want to help you. I wrote a song for you.
You're kidding. You wrote a song? Is it about a guilty girl and a trusting guy... she wants to hurt him, and he wonders why?
Not exactly, but with your great voice, it'll be a huge hit. Honest.
Fat chance. You know, Lee Wilkins came to hear me last night. He told me to forget it. You told me to forget it. My parents tell me to forget it.
Just take a look at it.
If you took the trouble to write it, then sure, I'll take a look at it. But I'm beginning to think that maybe there's more to life than music. I wonder if people would still like me if I stopped being Mr. Excitement?
Does this mean you like me again?
It means I care about you and what happens to you.
That's all I wanted to hear. 'Cause I'm never going to give up on us. It's easy to fall apart in a crisis. It's easy to be selfish and say goodbye and good luck. But this is more than love. This is a mental decision. Just wait till tomorrow, when you see your birthday present. Then you'll understand.
Forget it, it'll never work.
Okay. Listen, I cancelled the tickets for Fabian. I thought it would be better for your birthday to eat at a nice restaurant, Chez Tres.
What the hell did you do that for? What are you doing here?
I was trying to save you. They were going to vaporize you.
Don't be ridiculous! They're just a bunch of harmless old men. My grandfather was in there.
You're going to listen to me.
Let me got! Where are you taking me?
Right here. Now sit down.
Look. I wanna tell you. I forgive you for everything. I know what you've been going through. You're just scared. I was scared, too, but I'm not anymore.
How could you possibly know what I've been going through?
What do you mean you and my father decided? Who the hell are you to plan my life? Let's get married and live happily ever after. Bullshit. I got knocked up. I had to marry you. I never had a choice.
What?
You betrayed me, Charlie. You were never there for me or the children. And now you come and tell me, "Peggy, you're scared." Of course I'm scared. If you knew what I knew you'd be scared shitless.
You're crazy! You're really out of your mind!
I might be crazy, but I'm not crazy enough to marry you twice. There's a lot of things I can't change. I can't even think about them. I tried. But I couldn't even help Rosalie. I don't want to be bitter. I'm a naturally optimistic person. But you took advantage of that.
Will you take me back to my grandparents?
Of course.
Oh, Charlie.
It opens, too. Look inside.
I love you.
I know.
I think we should get out of here. It's going to rain.
Do you think anybody in the Fifties ever made love on a bed?
What the hell is that?
Peggy! Where're you going? Come back!
I've got to go now.
But I love you. I'll love you forever.
I'll love you, too, Charlie. I'll love you for twenty years.
Come back to me.
I'm trying.
. Peggy Sue, I love you, and I need you Peggy Sue...
Charlie? Was I dead?
I thought you were...for a while.
You look awful, like you haven't slept in days. And so old.
But happy. Very happy, Peggy Sue.
Charlie, I thought I knew everything about you.
I wanted to apologize. I can't live without you.
What about Janet?
That's over. I got tired of translating everything. She thought the Big Hopper was a hamburger.
It couldn't be me. I hardly knew him.
I'll just set it right here.
Charlie, I had a strange experience. I went back to high school. And I spent a lot of time with you. And you and Walter and Leon were singing "I Wonder Why".
Oh, God, Dion.
You were terrific. And I kept trying to push you away but you wouldn't give up.
I'll never give up.
Then hold me.
I loved you since the day I met you, and I haven't stopped.
Don't try to charm me, Charlie Bodell.
Listen, I don't expect all the troubles between us can just vanish away. But I would do what I can...
Lucky lady. Hi.
Michael Fitzsimmons! Is he here?
Can you believe I want to marry that dork.
Why do guys do such stupid things?
Charlie really has a great voice.
Maybe they'll be the next Dion and the Belmonts.
I hear she does more than talk with her mouth.
That's disgusting!
) Oh, Maddy, grow up. It says in LOVE WITHOUT FEAR that "the tongue kiss as a means of genital stimulation is widely practiced and has much to commend it". Page eightysix.
Peggy Sue!
You better watch out for her. She's after Charlie.
Don't be silly. It's Saturday. Date night!
Yeah. I've gotta go. Arthur's picking me up soon.
Carol!
Peggy Sue!
1 just did it for the reunion. I thought it would be fun.
You're probably the only one who could carry it off.
Welcome to the singles scene.
I don't know how you do it. I've never even dated anybody but Charlie.
You just have to remember... men are like houses and trade upwards... I thought you had a pretty good marriage.
We did for a long time. We just got married too young, and ended up blaming each other for missing out on things.
So he started having affairs, and you got depressed.
You should have left here years ago, like I did.
It's not the place. I don't buy that. Trapped in the same town forever. The price she would pay for her teenage lust.
After you got knocked up, my mother didn't want me to talk to you. She thought it was contagious.
Oh, it's not so bad. I have two wonderful kids, my own business. Still, knowing what I know now, if I had the chance to do it all over again, I'd sure do things a lot differently.
Wouldn't we all.
Hi, Peggy. God, that Walter Getz can still dance.
Your first boyfriend. What do you think? Any sparks left?
Who knows. Remember... Whatever Walter wants...
The only one?
Well, besides Charlie, of course.
They're waiting. Come on.
I can't. It's all too much.
Go on. You can do it.
Where is it?
Were taking you back to the nurse.
Maddy, what did you do to your hair?
We're going to take you home.
That's okay. I'm sure I'll remember the way.
I'll call you Later.
Yes. Let's stay in touch.
I don't get it.
That's because you' re not a total moron like they are.
He is kind of cute, isn't he?
Yeah. You're so lucky. He really loves you, too. He's always telling Walter how wonderful you are.
He does?
All right. What's the scoop?
On what?
Did you memorize the whole book or only the good parts?
Just what you underlined.
You're kidding...? Carol, you have beautiful hair.
Come on. What's with you and Michael?
I bet Dolores told Charlie.
That loudmouthed little bitch~
Okay. But let's have a girls night soon. Maybe a pajama party.
Aren't we a little old for that?
What's the matter?
It's that jerk Walter.
What happened?
After Charlie told Walter that he broke up with you because he wanted to play the field, Walter decided he should do the same thing.
Welcome to the singles' scene.
What a I going to do for the rest of my life? I don't have a boyfriend anymore.
Look, Carol, maybe Walter's done you a big favor. You always said you wanted to get out of town. Go for it. And be happy, goddamnit, I'm rooting for you.
Where were you? You said you'd be back at twelve.
This is my old friend Carol.. I told you about her.
r was worried about you You didn't even call. You're always on my case if I don't call..
How do you like my hair?
It looks great. Don't change the subject. You know how busy Saturdays are. And I can't do the icing. I always mess up the roses. You're not being very responsible.
But I want you and Scott to understand. Do you think he loves Janet? Maybe he's smashed too many fortune cookies.
Come on Mom. Give him a break. He's missing the reunion because of you. You know he wants to go.
Then we'd both have a miserable time. What do you think?
Hey, you're a hip chick. You look like you stepped right out of Life magazine. Any time you want to borrow it again, just ask.
Borrow?! This was my dress. Maybe it's a mistake. What if I'm the only one? I don't even want to go. Everybody's just going to say... Hi.. Where's Crazy Charlie?
Mom, lots of people are separated and divorced.
Not from the guy with the lowest prices in town.
I feel ridiculous. Maybe I should go home and change.
Why are you so nervous? What is the matter with you today?
I don't know. Reunions do funny things to people.
Do you believe in all of that?
Well, I like to speculate. This book I'm reading right now, a woman in Colorado says she lived in Ireland a hundred and fifty years ago. Her name was Bridey Murphy and she gives names and dates and where she lived. She was hypnotized. Big bestseller.
I remember that book! Grandpa, Grandma, I want to tell you something.
It's gonna rain again. Every time I wash the car, it rains.
That never changes. You know, when you and Grandma are gone, the family's gone. I never see the cousins anymore.
It's your grandma's strudel that's kept this family together.
Grandpa, if you had a chance to do it all again, what would you do?
I'd take better care of my teeth.
Let's go.
Goodbye, Grandma.
What does Grandma think you do at your meetings?
Stag movies. Smokers.
I may be an old fool, but I think we can help you.
I hope so. At least I got to see you and Grandma. Has it ever worked before?
The last one was six hundred years ago. It's about time for another one.
Do you have to wear that hat?
It wouldn't be a lodge without hats.
Hello, Lilla!
Peggy Sue!
Quite a bit more rain than usual this year. I hope it doesn't spoil the rhubarb.
I've already got some in. I was thinking of making a pie for dinner tonight. How would you like that?
What's it going to be, Elizabeth? Seventyfive? Eighty?
I'm not telling.
I've been trying to drag it out of her for years. You know, dreams are fascinating business. 'Specially where you see the future.
What's Peggy Sue going to do at your lodge meeting?
It's her 18th birthday, I want to show her off.
So you join us, Admiral. Some of us thought your education at an American university would make you too weak to fight the Americans.
If knowledge of opponents and careful calculation of danger is taken as weakness then I have misunderstood what it means to be Japanese.
The time has come to strike! Or to sit and let the Americans cut off our oil and our future. I know what you whisper to the others, Yamamoto  that the Americans are strong. Yet look at their leader.
You have something to say, Yamamoto?
The Council knows I have opposed fighting the Americans. No matter how great our resolve, they have resources beyond ours. If we must go to war, there is only one way  deal them a blow from which it will take them years to recover. In that time we can conquer all of the Pacific, and they will have no choice but to ask for peace.
You see us as capable of such a blow?
The Americans themselves have made it possible. We will annihilate them in a single attack  at Pearl Harbor.
Leapin' Jesus!
The struts are loose, the hydraulics are leaking, and the electrical system's shorting out in the cockpit.
Well which of those three ya want fixed?
All of 'em.
If ye'd wanted a bloody Cadillac ya should'a stayed in the bloody States!
And if you don't give me a plane that can handle combat, you better start learning to speak German.
Fook ya!
Learn English, then!
Fook ya dooble!
I have'na been able ta 
Crank her!
What if the Japanese did invade?
We've done studies. We're confident we would turn them back eventually...after they'd gotten as far as Chicago.
We have bombed Tokyo, Mr. President. Radio Tokyo interrupted it's own broadcast to make the announcement.
Have the planes made it to China?
There've been some complications, Sir. The Chinese didn't receive our request for homing beacons until is was too late to get them set. And the planes had to take off so early they may lack fuel to make the mainland anyway.
So those brave men are flying blind and running out of fuel.
The Chinese are sending out search parties to try to find the crews before the Jap patrols do, if any of the planes make it.
God help them.
Uncharged torpedoes have different balance.
I have arranged a live fire drill  with your permission.
Everything real except the fact that no one is shooting back at us.
If we achieve surprise, they will offer little resistance.
Set up teams of radio operators to send out messages the Americans will intercept, concerning every potential American target in the Pacific. Include Hawaii  the clutter will be more confusing that way.
Brilliant, Admiral.
A brilliant man would find a way not to fight a war.
We have achieved surprise, but their carriers are not in port. I don't like this.
We have a fighter screen up, in case we are attacked, Admiral.
We must go ahead. This is our moment.
We have achieved complete surprise! The first wave is returning, the second is attacking now, and we have lost only a few planes. We can launch a third wave, Admiral.
The second wave has not returned. And we have no idea where their carriers are. What is the damage report?
If we launch the third wave and annihilate their fuel depots, we destroy their ability to operate in the Pacific for at least a year!
And if we fail, and lose our carriers, we destroy our ability to fight them at all. As soon as the second wave returns, we will withdraw.
Hello, Lieutenant. Good to see you.
You too, Lieutenant.
Oh, this is Betty.
Nice to meet you, Betty.
Danny's not coming?
No, he...got some news today. He'll be okay, he just didn't feel like coming tonight.
I was hoping to meet him.
Whatever you're trying to tell me isn't good, is it. Or it wouldn't be so hard to say.
The only reason it's hard to say is that I keep thinking I don't have the right to say it. But I've got to because it's true. I love you. That must surprise you.
It surprises me that I'm not the only one on this balcony who feels that way.
There's one thing I have to say. I'm going away.
We're all going away.
I'm going to the war. The real war. Hitler's taken Europe. The Brits are hanging on by their fingernails, and If they lose, there'll be more people killed than anybody can imagine. And not just there, but here.
But you're in the U.S. Army, how could you 
Colonel Doolittle pulled the strings, and put me on loan to the R.A.F. They need pilots, and we need experience. I leave tomorrow.
You waited til tonight to tell me?
I had to tell you in person. Because there's something else I need to say.
Evelyn...you know the line  let's make tonight memorable. What I feel about you makes it impossible for me to say something like that. If I don't come back, I don't want to saddle you with regret and sadness you'll carry the rest of your life.
I don't know if you can choose that, Rafe.
Maybe not. But I need you to know. I love you. And I will come back. I'll find a way. And then we'll get a chance to know if what I felt the first moment I saw you, and every minute since then, is real.
Do one thing for me, before you go.
I sent telegrams, I guess the military traffic held them up.
Why were you sitting here, instead of...
I saw you, I couldn't go in, I...just stood there wondering if you knew. You looked...sad, and I had to sit down a minute.
How did you?...
...Survive? I jumped in a patch of fog, and nobody could see me. I hit the water hard. And it was so...cold.
I called my folks, then Colonel Doolittle. The Colonel sent a man to pick me up. They wanted to debrief me. I told the Colonel I needed to see somebody first, and he had a supply flight heading out in an hour. I've done a lot of talking. You haven't said anything.
I'm just...so amazed, so glad to know that you're okay. You are okay, aren't you?
Nothing that won't heal. I guess.
It's been...so different, being so sure you were dead.
I'm so sorry for what you must've gone through, but I'm back.
It's all right. Danny always said I see things with my emotions instead of my eyes.
It's not your fault, Rafe. The letter I wrote you, they 
Don't worry about that. Guys away from home, lonely, goodhearted women try to cheer them up.
It's not that I didn't mean everything I wrote. It's just that  I thought you were dead. And now 
What else can we do?
There's nothing you can do here, they'll die or they won't, we just 
Rafe 
I need to tell you something. I didn't know what it was to lose somebody, to see death and find how much it scares you. That you haven't lived and loved enough. I didn't understand. Forgive me.
Rafe... No. You forgive me.
Of course I forgive you. I know what you feel for Danny is real. And your choice is your choice.
That's what I have to tell you, Rafe. It wasn't a choice. It 
What?...
They were bringing back a ship full of wounded and needed extra nurses along. I wrote Colonel Doolittle, and told him I needed to see you before you go.
It must of been a convincing letter.
It was. I couldn't have you go away, wherever it is...to war...without knowing something. You think I made a choice, of Danny over you. I didn't. I didn't have a choice. I'm pregnant.
'Scuse me, 'Mam. All the ship's doctors is golfing, and I couldn't find nobody to look at this.
Our doctor's gone too.
Sorry to trouble you.
Wait, let me look at that... You better come in here.
How'd you get this?
Boxin'.
Win?
Yes'm.
What's your name?
Dorie Miller, 'Mam.
I'm Evelyn. And I'm just a nurse. But I'm not playing golf, and that cut needs sewing, or else it's gonna make a big lumpy scar. Whatta ya say?
How often you fight like this?
Every other Sunday. I'm heavyweight champion of the West Virginia.
What do you get for winning?
Respect.
Thank you, 'Mam.
Tell me something, Dorie. A man as big as you  and smart too, you knew where to come when your ship couldn't help  do you still have to fight with your fists to get respect?
I left my Mama and joined the Navy to be a man. They made me a cook  and not even that, really  I clean up after the other sailors eat. I shine the officer's shoes. In two years, they've never even let me fire a gun.
You take care, Dorie.
You too, 'Mam.
There are some people who think the outside loop is reckless and irresponsible.
How could it be irresponsible, Sir, if you were the first man in the world to do it?
Don't get smart with me, son.
Never, Sir. I just meant it's dangerous only for the kind of pilot who wants to show off, rather than inspire the other pilots in his unit. And all you've done for me, Sir, working out the transfer, I did it to say thanks. To honor you, Sir. What the French call a "homage."
That's bullshit, son. But it's really good bullshit.
Thank you, Sir.
Good luck over there McCawley. I admire your decision.
Thank you, Sir.
I heard what you did.
We can explain, Colonel.
Explain what?
Is that the good new, Sir, or 
You're just about the only pilots in the Army with actual combat experience, so you're volunteering for a mission I've been ordered to put together. Do you know what top secret is?
Well sure, Colonel 
Top secret means you help me pick the other pilots, train, and go  without knowing where you're going until it's too late.
In flight school you qualified in single and in multiengine planes. You'll be flying multiengines here.
Bombers.
I want to introduce a couple of people. Doc White is a flight surgeon; he has volunteered for gunnery training so that he can go on the mission, because we can't spare the weight of an extra man.
I thought I'd made it clear, I'm not just putting this mission together  I'm leading it myself.
I take it back, about the flowers. We're all gonna die.
Listen you guys. I'm the first plane  then McCawley, Walker, the rest of you. I'll have the shortest run. If I don't make it, you don't go.
Colonel...we're all going. Whether you make it or not.
I know.
And where's the secret base, Sir? The one we ttakeoff from.
The navy will get us to within 400 miles of the Japanese coast. We'll launch off the carriers from there.
CColonel, we been ppracticing takeoff's, but I ain't sure we can land on these carriers ddecks.
We won't have the fuel to get back to the carriers; they'll turn and run back to Hawaii the minute we're airborne.
Then whwhere do we land?
I have a phrase I want you all to memorize: "Lushu hoo megwa fugi." It means "I am an American." In Chinese.
Now we have fifteen requests for the Emperor's Palace...and one for Tokyo baseball stadium.
I ddon't think Japs ought'a be allowed to pplay baseball.
I'd like to bomb their Emperor too. But I think that'd just piss 'em off. The idea here, Gentlemen, is not revenge. We're here to prove to them that they're neither invincible nor superior. So let's try this again. Military targets only.
Colonel, to ffight you need strategy. To have strategy, ya gotta practice. And to practice it, ya gotta play 
No baseball diamonds, Red.
YYes Sir.
Lieutenant... I'm Danny Walker. I'm Rafe McCawley's best friend.
Were. Isn't that what you mean? Were. Because he's dead, isn't he? And that's why you've come.
Before Rafe left, he asked me to be the one to tell you, if it happened.
He told me about you. That he had no other friend like you.
Rafe's folks had a crop dusting business, owned their own planes. Real straight, frugal. My father was the town drunk. Went to sleep one night on the railroad tracks and was still there when the Dawn Express came along. Rafe and I were the only ones at the funeral. He took me back to his house, and I never left.
You were more like brothers.
I taught him to drink beer. He taught me how to fly.
He said you're the only one he ever saw who was better in the air than him.
...He said that?
How's everything?
We got some soldiers in traction from a jeep accident, but it's quiet. Except for the occasional fighter plane buzzing us.
That might not have been such a good idea. They're making us fly out of a halfpaved airfield. The real punishment is that I won't be back to the barracks till it's too late for dinner or coffee. So I guess it's goodbye for awhile.
I was just thinking that war is a series of goodbyes. Do you think that's why we're meeting. To help us say goodbye to Rafe?
I swore not to talk about him tonight, but there's all this stuff I think I ought to tell you, that he didn't get a chance to. Rafe was...he was lonely. He had such high expectations of himself that he always felt empty. The week he met you he told me he felt his heart had always lived in winter, and for the first time in his life he has seen the spring.
Sorry.
He told me he didn't want to leave me with regret. Now that's all I have.
Hey, have you seen Pearl Harbor at night?
Well...sure.
From the air?
So beautiful!
Hang on.
Hey! What is this, the planes all bunched up like that?
The brass is afraid of sabotage. This makes 'em easier to protect  and easier to service.
What about easier to hit in an air raid?
Who's gonna to that? Japan is four thousand miles away. So you guys just arrived, huh?
Yeah.
We got a saying here. AlowHA!
Bandits at 2 o'clock.
Power dive!
It's Germans!
Kill the bastards!
Good shooting, Danny!
Good shooting, Rafe!
Land of the free...
Home of the brave!
There's another one!
Didn't you say test the limits?
Hey, you wanna test my limits, you better line up a couple dozen women on the GROUND...cause I got NO limits in the air!
How could you do this?
The Colonel helped me work it out.
I don't mean how'd you do the paperwork, I mean how the hell did you do it without letting me in on it?
I'm sorry, Danny, but they're only accepting the best pilots.
Don't make this a joke, Rafe. You're talking about war, and I know what war does to people.
Danny, you know how many times I saw you come to school with a black eye or a busted nose, and couldn't do a thing about it  for you, or for your mother... or your father, with his lungs scorched out with mustard gas, and more left of his lungs than there was of his spirit? You've made your sacrifice, Danny. It's time I made mine.
Nah, you go on.
I have to talk to Evelyn. And I want you to meet her.
Some other time. I don't feel like a party.
Didn't you say you told her not to come?
Yeah.
Then why are you looking for her?
It's a test. If I asked her to come and she came, it wouldn't tell me anything. If I tell her not to come, and she comes...then I know she loves me.
You'd always go sit in a plane whenever you were upset.
Upset? Why should I be upset?
Let's go get a drink. Unless you're scared to talk about it.
Sorry.
Why be sorry? That's what you feel, it's better to come out with it.
I didn't mean it.
Sure you did. So come on. Say what you think.
Waitress! Four beers!
You don't wanna put beer over maitai.
If you can't keep up, don't drink yours.
We gotta face some facts here.
What facts are those?
I understand how it could happen. I know why any guy would love her. And I can't blame you that it happened. You thought I was dead, she was grieving, you were trying to help her.
I was grieving too.
Yeah, right. Anyway, you didn't know.
So what are you saying?
I'm saying now you do know. So it's time for you to fuck off.
You left her. How's that for a fact?
How's this for a fact? I loved her first.
How come you're not pukin'?
I guess I'm used to it. I've felt like throwing up every minute since you got back.
Don't blame her, Rafe. It's not like you're thinking.
Fuck you.
She loves you. I know that. And part of what she loves in me is how much of you she sees in me.
She said I was so much like you. I said, No, I'm not. I'm like I am because of you, but I'm not you, not as good as you. Everybody else saw me as a loser with a big chip on his shoulder. But you saw the better part of me, the part of me that could be like you, and changed me. You made me who I am.
How sweet. Is that when you put the move on her?
Get me into a plane!
Come on!
Where are we going?
Auxiliary field at Haleiwa, ten miles north of here.
What's there?
Six P40's.
This ain't a little feud, Earl, it's World War Two!
They're coming around for another pass. You got extra weapons and ammo?
It's tight.
Tighter 'n a bulls ass in fly season. Don't hit the barn.
They're all over us!
Bet they don't dust crops in Japan.
You hear my okay?
Yeah. So you can call me if you need help.
I got a half a tank. You?
Little less.
Land of the free.
Home of the brave.
I'm out of ammo!
I'm out of fuel!
Sorry you're gonna die  cause I'm gonna make it.
What color flowers you want me to bring to your funeral?
Fun today. Like old times.
Danny, what the hell are you trying to do out there?
What do you mean? I'm just doing what we've always done.
No. You're trying to beat me.
We've always tried to beat each other.
Bullshit. We've played with each other, pushed each other. This is different. Like you want to prove that you're better than me. Who's that for  Evelyn?
Maybe just trying to measure up.
What's between you and her is between you and her. But here's what's between you and me. Everybody has a hero, Danny. And you're mine.
It's shorter than our practice runway.
They'll turn the ship into the wind before we launch. That'll help.
We'll be loaded with 2,000 pounds of bombs and 1,500 pounds of fuel. I got another Chinese phrase for Doolittle. "Mug wump rickshaw mushu pork." It means "Who the fuck thought up this shit?"
It's not getting any longer.
Longer? It's getting shorter.
Broomsticks instead of tail guns.
We'll get separated over the target, but you and I will rendezvous for the run to China. I'm on your wing.
And I'm on yours. Land of the free.
Home of the Brave.
Danny...
I can't make it.
Yes you can.
They ready, Earl?
They'll all fly, but  oh, shit...
Cocksuckin' right I do!! In the gun lockers!
You guys get those! Earl, Rafe, come with me!
Earl! You said the planes were ready but  but what?
Of the four left, only one is full of fuel.
Danny, I don't like this fuckin' guy.
Anthony, Red, stay with the guns! Coma, you cover the cannons! Joe, Theo, come with us! Earl, you get on the radio! We're gonna fight these fuckers.
Who the fuck taught you to fly?
He did.
Ever hear of maitai's? Comes in a big...pot. Like...like...
A mmissionary?
No, like...
I ththink I'm gonna like it here.
You guys are new?
Shit, he's puking on my feet!
Well, you ppuked on his feet.
Yeah, but he was wearing shoes!
Hey. You. Mr. Coma.
Where's that lizard?
What lizard?
The one that slept in my mouth last night.
What the hell happened to you guys?
Yeah.
Maitai's. I got this to tell ya, about maitai's.
Rafe's girl, Evelyn?
You guys know her?! I gotta have an intro! Man, I'd like to 
You're Walker, right?
Yes Sir.
That was a nice little stunt you pulled, buzzing the base.
You liked that?
Oh yeah. I liked it so much I'm cutting you out of the squadron.
Sir?
I don't buy that hot dog shit. So you and your buddies are gonna transfer your planes up to Haleiwa.
Halewhat?
You'll love it. No base, no bars, just lots of sun and aircraft maintenance.
Sir, I 
Too late for apologies, Walker.
I wasn't gonna apologize, Sir. I was just gonna say it was worth it to feel like a real pilot again, even if it was only for five seconds.
On loan from Colonel Doolittle, is it?
That's me, Sir.
Good on you, then, Rafe McCawley. We'll get you situated in some quarters, and then introduce you to the equipment you'll be flying.
If you're patching up bullet holes right here on the runway, maybe we should skip the housekeeping and get right to the planes.
Are all the Yanks as anxious as you are to get yourself killed, Lieutenant?
Not anxious to die, Sir, anxious to matter.
He, I'm RRed. Red SStrange.
Red...Strange?
You know the football player, Red G Grange? Well the guys called me RRed, cause you know, I'm red...and they thought I was strange, so, you know, Red GGrange, Red StrStrange.
But...they called you Strange? Because of Red Grange? I don't get it. Was Red Grange strange?
How would I know.
Do you always stutter?
Only when I'm nnn
Nervous?
Yeah. But if I have to get something out, I ccan always sss SIIING!
Do you have trouble with your boobs in the uniform?
You mean hiding them?
Hide them? On a date with pilots? I'm talking about how you make them show!
We'll ask Evelyn. Evelyn? Evelyn!
Ooo, she's thinking of her date! Come on, you've been dating a pilot. We want to know what we can expect.
Now listen, it's hands off Billy. I mean, you can put your hands on him if you want to, but then my hands will break yours.
He was that good?
No, I was.
I wish she could forget him.
You don't forget love, Honey. Not ever.
You goodlookin' sumbitch...don't you EVER die!
That's your line for tonight, ya know.
What, goodlookin' sumbitch?
No, numbnuts, die. You get your nurse alone, you look her in the eye, and say, "Baby, they're training me for war, and I don't know what'll happen. But if I die tomorrow, I wanna know that we lived all we could tonight." I've never known it to fail.
Are you sure they're here?
If Evelyn's here, the rest are here!
What is it with Red? I've never seen him this way.
He's been like that all day. Hey Danny, you coming?
We have a problem here?
Jack Foley, famous bank robber.
White Boy, how much is the reward on the man again?
Ten gees.
Uhhuh. You recall, did it say dead or alive?
I think he must've fell in.
I sent these two looking for him, they come back shaking their heads.
I found a rubber.
White Boy, the man's not gonna hide no diamonds under the fuckin' mattress.
...the fuck is this...
Are they dead?
Thank you...
Not so fast, Dick. Starting now, there's gonna be an across the board cost a living increase.
What?
Year ago, I come in here on credit card fraud, but after I shanked that loudmouth pussy on the yard the other day, my Dunn & Broadstreet, has gone way the fuck up.
I think it's Dunn & <u>Brad</u>street. But then, I could be wrong...
Whoever. The point is, prices are goin' up, too. Better get your little black book out, Richard. We got some business to talk about.
That Bausch & Lomb Saline shit you asked for is gonna be eighty bucks.
Well, I need that...
...and that extra pillow's gonna be an even three c's.
Faux goose down.
Still...
Excuse me. Snoopy? Did we settle the fish thing?
Yeah. Sure. It's all settled.
Well, if it isn't the Ripper hisself.
Are those <i>my</i> suits?
Where you been hiding, Dick?
Midge.
Forget about her. Tell me where the money's at.
Foley's got it.
Where the fuck is Foley?
I've heard a lot about you, Mr. Sisco.
Likewise.
In case no one knows what he does. Tell me, Ray, you ever wear one says, "Undercover"?
No. Course not.
Yeah, someone spotted two of 'em in this hobo camp out by the airport, called the number
I knew it, soon as I saw they were offering a reward.
Did you pay the guy the reward?
Yeah, as soon as we got back.
...She fixes him pork chops and rice, the next thing you know they're making love on the sofa. She says he was very gentle.
I spoke to her. The guy told her he missed his little girl and she felt sorry for him.
That's how you score now?
The woman also said he stole her husband's gun, a twentytwo pistol, and some of his clothes.
So the woman's married. She goes to bed with this prison escapee because he misses his little girl and then tells the world about it. But you don't reveal her name, you protect her. It sounds like you're saying it's okay as long as her husband doesn't find out about it. Like the guy who cheats on his wife, saying what she doesn't know won't hurt her.
Not yet. Where's Mr. Ripley?
I told you, he isn't here.
Out for the evening?
He's in Florida. Palm Beach.
When's he due back?
You here all by yourself?
That's right, just me.
Where's Ripley's safe at, he keep his valuables in.
I don't have any idea.
Let's go upstairs, have a look at the man's bedroom. All right now, you and Mr. Buddy check the rooms down here. Look at the wall behind any pictures hanging on it. Look at the walls in the closets. The man has a safe, it's gonna be up there somewhere.
How do I look, mama?
Like a fag.
A'ight, this time we gotta get the motherfuckin' trajectory right... Okay, on three: One... Two...
The combination is threetenfortyfour.
You fit another Chanel suit in here?
Something better. Open it.
It's beautiful.
It's a 
SigSauer .38. I love it.
Thanks, Dad.
Happy birthday, kid. You want another Coke?
Can't. I gotta drive out to Glades, then I'm meeting Ray Nicolet at ten.
Which one is that? The ATF guy?
He was. Ray's with the F.B.I. now, he switched over.
He's still married though, huh?
Technically. They're separated.
Oh, he's moved out?
He's about to.
Then they're not separated, are they?
Can we change the subject?
What're you doing at Glades?
Serving process, a Summons and Complaint. Some con doing mandatory life doesn't like macaroni and cheese. He files suit, says he has no choice in what they serve and it violates his civil rights.
You know you can always step in, work with me fulltime as one of my investigators.
No thanks.
You used to like it.
Dad...
You'd meet doctors, lawyers  nothing wrong with them necessarily if they're divorced. Why settle for some cowboy cop who drinks too much and cheats on his wife? That's the way those hotshots are, all of 'em.
I really gotta go.
We don't get to talk much any more.
How 'bout I come next Sunday and watch the Super Bowl with you?
I'd like that.
You were talking in your sleep.
What'd I say?
"Hey, yourself."
Huh.
What are you thinking about?
The Sig Sauer you got me for my birthday.
Tell you what, you're a good girl, you might get another one for Christmas.
He doesn't even look like that.
No?
No, he looks a lot...
Ray's with the F.B.I. Task Force, working on the prison break.
I see that.
Was it Foley?
Off a tip?
Hello? Yeah, she is. Just a minute. For you.
Hello?
Remember, pay attention to how she talks about Foley, her tone. Do it right, she'll tell you things she wouldn't tell Burdon. Tell her you think he's a nice guy. No, first tell her about being in the trunk with him, in the dark for half an hour, and see how she takes it. If she's in on it, what does she get for all the aggravation; cops breathing on her? I bet nothing. So she still likes him enough to stick her neck out. You think that's possible? What kind of guy is he?
He's pretty laid back, confident.
He remind you of that guy, Tillman?
Not at all.
But you know he's dirty and you still wanna see him again.
I want to bust his ass, put him in shackles.
Maybe. But you're also curious about the man. Twice last night you asked your married boyfriend Nicolet about him. You were concerned, but you didn't want to show it.
My married boyfriend  setting him up with that news story so you could talk about infidelity. I couldn't believe it.
You like the wild ones, don't you? Tillman, Nicolet and now Foley. You know, I've always said there's a thin line between the cowboy cops and the armed robbers, all those guys that love to pack.
Foley <i>kid</i>napped me.
Yeah, but you talked all the way from GCI to the turnpike. It sounds more like a first date than a kidnapping.
He waved to you?
I couldn't swear to it, but I'm pretty sure he did.
You wave back?
I didn't have time.
I imagine you would've though.
Buddy's sister Regina Mary Bragg got two calls from Buddy up in Detroit this morning, called Burdon. She's also the one gave Burdon Buddy's address.
So?
So what I want to know is why Buddy still calls his sister every week even after she turned him in.
He doesn't seem to hold a grudge. What <i>I</i> want to know is why, they got such a big score up north, did Foley hang around Miami for so long? Any thoughts on that one?
None I'd like to share.
You gonna go get him?
It's possible. Why?
I was just thinking... you could have a nice time with him on the plane  like picking up where your interlude, or whatever you call it, left off. And then throw him in the can.
He knew what he was doing. Nobody forced him to rob banks.
My little girl, the tough babe.
Moselle Miller?
What do you want?
I'm looking for Maurice.
You find him, tell him the dog got run over and I'm out of grocery money.
That's not Maurice?
That's Kenneth, my brother. He's talking on the phone.
You like to sit down?
Thanks.
I'm looking for a friend of mine I think Maurice knows.
You not with probation, one of those?
No.
You a lawyer?
No, I'm not. Maybe you know him. Glenn Michaels?
Glenn? No, I don't know any Glenn.
He said he stayed here last November.
Here? In this house?
He said he stayed with Maurice.
Well, <i>he</i> ain't even here that much. I like to know where he goes, but at the same time I don't <i>want</i> to know, you understand?
Your dog was killed?
Got run over by a car.
What did you call it?
Was a she, name Tuffy.
Where do you think I might find Maurice?
I don't know  the gym, the fights. I <i>know</i> he don't miss the fights. Having some tomorrow night at the State Theater. He use to take me.
The State Theater?
You're a fighter?
How you know that?
I can tell.
I <i>was</i>...
What'd you fight, middleweight?
Light to supermiddleweight, as my body developed. You go about what, bantam?
Flyweight.
You know your divisions. You like the fights? Like the rough stuff? Yeah, I bet you do. Like to get down and tussle a little bit? Like me and Tuffy, before she got run over, we use to get down on the floor and tussle. I say to her, "You a good dog, Tuffy, here's a treat for you." And I give Tuffy what every dog love best. You know what that is? A bone. I can give you a bone, too, girl.
You're not my type.
Don't matter. I let the monster out, you gonna do what it wants.
Just a minute.
What's wrong with you?
You wanted to tussle, we tussled.
Hi, Ray.
You look great. Your dad taking good care of you?
He took the week off so we'd have time together. So far he's worked on his boat every day. Dad? Ray Nicolet.
How's it going?
Great. We got one of 'em.
Foley? Oh. No, it was one of the Cubans. Linares.
Oh...
We went out there, full SWAT, two choppers, the whole bit, but Linares started shooting anyway. We put him down, but somehow Chirino got away.
Snoopy. Glenn Michaels.
Studs. Hey, son, you must be one a them psychic friends. I was just thinkin' about you.
Listen, Snoopy, I'm on my way up to Detroit and need a place to crash.
You crazy, come up <u>here</u>? It's fuckin one degree outside.
I wanna talk to you about a job.
Uhhuh.
I can't really go into it right now. I'll just tell you it's someone big.
Some<u>one</u>? Gimme a hint.
It's a guy you know.
Gimme another hint.
It's Richard Ripley.
You there?
Oh, I'm here, all right. I'm very here. Question is, why aren't <u>you</u> here?
Watch the road, boy. I like this Town Car. We can cruise the man's neighbourhood without getting the police or private security people on our ass.
Sure, right, they see Bigfoot driving around a black guy wearing shades and a lavender fucking bandanna, no, they won't think anything of it.
It's lilac, man, the color, and the style's made known by Deion and other defensive backs in the pros. I could be one of them living out here with doctors of my race and basketball players. Okay, here comes Mr. Ripley's house up on the left. Yeah. The brick wall. There's his drive, right there.
You sure Foley and his pal aren't coming up here, do this themself?
If they're not busted now, they're gonna be. It's wide open.
So you still haven't said, how you wanna do it?
I'll show you, soon as I get one more guy I'm gonna need, Moselle's brother, Kenneth. Along with White Boy there.
What?
Wait a minute. I'm letting <i>you</i> in on this, not all your friends.
You just ask me how we gonna do it. That's what I'm here for, tell you how. We the experts.
Thing I'm worried about is you.
Me?
Yeah. If you can step up and actually do it. Understand? 'Stead of just talking the talk.
Can I do what?
Walk in a house with me, do this cross dressin' nigga named Eddie Solomon I used to sell to been dealin' on his own.
What when?
Right now, son.
I don't have to prove shit to you. The Ripley job is <i>my</i> job. You're either in or you're not. You wanna pop some crack dealer pissed you off, that's your problem, not mine.
Look, Glenn, I know you cool, but you don't have to give me no tone of voice, okay? You don't like what I'm saying, you can get out anywhere along here you want.
I think you're forgetting, this is my car. I drove it up here.
Hey, shit, come on. I say I want this car, man, it's mine. You go get yourself another one. I say I'm in on Ripley? I'm in, with or without <i>your</i> ass. I say I want you to come along on another job, see if you for real or not, guess what you gonna do?
That was some shit, huh?
Why'd he have to do that to that girl?
Yeah, Kenneth, why you have to do that to that poor girl.
It's all right with you, I'll just hang in the car.
No. You gonna stay close to me from now on. So you don't disappear on me.
Why would I do that?
I'll send it to you at Glades.
Jesus, what'd you crawl through, a sewer?
I got a big score lined up up north. They wouldn't even know about it, it wasn't for me. I could do it right now myself, except it's so fucking cold up there in January
Glenn?
You don't remember me, do you?
It couldn't have been out at Glades, if that's what you're thinking. I was never out there.
No, that's not what I'm thinking.
But you're sure we've met, huh?
Last fall, I drove you from the Palm Beach county jail to the federal courthouse, twice. You're Glenn Michaels. I never forget anyone I've cuffed and shackled.
Do we have a gun in the car?
I remember you now. Shit.
Foley's not going to make it. And if he goes down, Glenn, you go with him.
Look, I can understand if you and Foley are close.
We're not. I'm helping him, yeah
Wait. <i>Have</i> you helped him, Glenn? At this point, technically, I doubt you could be charged with aiding a fugitive. So you still have a choice. You can help him and risk going down again, get cuffed and shackled, hope to God you pull a reasonable judge, not some hardon. Or, if you want to play it another way...
Take the next exit.
What am I supposed to do <u>now</u>?
Glenn, take the exit.
No way, man, no fuckin' way am I gonna turn myself in.
Glenn, are you trying to steal this car?
Jesus, I don't believe it.
Another one of those days, huh, nothing seems to go right?
I mean I'm not stealing the fucking car.
You're not?
I already stole it. Last week or whenever it was, in West Palm. I can't be stealing it again, can I?
The two guys you were with  that one, that isn't Maurice Miller, is it? I've seen Snoopy's mug shot and that didn't look like him.
Jesus. How'd you know about Snoopy?
Glenn, I know your life history, who your friends are, where you've been and now, it looks like, where you're going. Put your hands on the wheel.
You're gonna bust me for picking up a car?
For the car, for aiding and abetting a prison escape, and conspiring to do whatever you came here for.
Listen, these guys, they're gonna be out here any minute looking for me. They're fucking animals.
What's going on, Glenn?
Nothing. I just wanna get the fuck outta here.
But I thought the whole thing was your idea?
Rippin' off Ripley was my idea, but these guys, man, they're into shit I can't handle.
Ripley? You mean the wall street guy?
Yeah, the plan was to pick him up at his office tomorrow, take him out to his house in Bloomfield Hills. Now, I don't give a shit what they do.
And is Foley a part of this?
He's supposed to be, but he hasn't shown up yet, which is a good thing for him.
Why's that?
Maurice is gonna kill him, try and collect the reward.
But you say he hasn't shown up, you think he backed out?
I don't know he doesn't exactly confide in me.
Gee, I wonder why not.
I'm freezing my ass off.
You want to get out of here, run, it'll warm you up.
Really?
But listen, Glenn. If you're lying to me...
I know, you'll find me. Jesus, I believe it. I keep thinking if you hadn't driven me to federal court last summer, you wouldn't even know who I am.
If I didn't know you, Glenn, by tomorrow you'd be in jail or dead. Look at it that way. Go on.
<i>Hejira?</i> What kinda name is that?
Islamic.
What's it mean, "No Hair"?
The Hejira was the flight of Mohammed from Mecca in 622.
The flight?
The brothers in Leavenworth gave me the name.
You were at Leavenworth, huh?
For a time.
Meaning?
Meaning time came, I left.
You busted out?
I prefer to call it an exodus from an undesirable place.
And how long was it before they caught up with you?
That time?
There were others.
Yeah. That was the ninth.
The <u>ninth</u>?
Ten, you count the prison hospital in Ohio I walked away from.
You must be some kinda walker, Henry.
Hejira.
And so now you're off to Glades.
Apparently, yeah. I was supposed to leave last night with the lady marshal, but for some reason she wanted to wait.
She did, huh.
Cheaper I guess, take us both down in one van.
Yeah, could be. Or maybe she thought we'd have a lot to talk about.
Like what?
I don't know. It's a long way down to Florida.
You don't wanna be standing there, the hacks start asking questions you don't wanna answer.
Oh, uh, right, thanks...
Sounds high, doesn't it?
Must be a real soft pillow.
You're smart, Ripley, you'll tell this guy to fuck off.
Really? Well, I uhhh...
First of all, if he kills you, he's not gonna get any more money out of you.
Thanks for your help.
Any time.
Tell me something. What's it like, walk in a bank with a gun, stick it up?
I don't know. I never used a gun.
Really?
You'd be surprised what all you can get, you ask for it the right way.
You're the reason, Jack, I don't keep all my money in banks.
No? Where do you keep it, Dick? I'm talking about all those uncut diamonds you told Glenn about.
I know what you're talking about.
You're the one with balls, Dick, say something like that to someone like Glenn. Or maybe you just forgot where you were for a minute.
Yeah, but who's gonna believe Glenn? I mean, do <u>you</u> believe Glenn?
Of course not.
Plus, even it was true, he'd still have to figure out where I keep 'em.
Doesn't have to figure out shit. You <u>told</u> him you keep 'em at your house.
It's a big house.
Tell me something, Jack, how much longer you in here?
Twentytwo months, three days, two hours. Why?
I was just thinking that I could use a guy like you, someone knows how to ask for things the right way. I'm talkin' about when you're outta here. I mean, you can't rob banks for ever.
It's a little late for me.
Hey, Jack? Bullshit. I didn't make my first million until I was forty two. Fortytwo. You really <u>want</u> to change, it's never too late.
I don't know. I'm not exactly the ninetofive type.
Who is? But then you gotta look at a job as more than just work. You gotta look at it as peace of mind. As <i>security</i>, you know what I mean? I got offices in Detroit, Miami, Boston, take your pick.
My exwife's in Miami. It's nice down there.
No need to decide now. Be like the fish. Let whatever happens happen.
The fish?
Yeah, fish live in the present. They don't dwell on yesterday and they don't worry about tomorrow. Even when a big fish attacks a little fish, there's no neurosis involved. No guilt afterward. No whining on some fishshrink's couch. They just do it. They accept.
I can't say that I've paid that much attention to 'em before.
The fish saved my life. Two years ago, I found out I had high blood pressure. So my doctor, he tells me to go get an aquarium, look at the fish every time I felt myself stressing out.
And the guy sent you a bill for this?
It works. You should try it sometime.
The next time I walk into a bank.
I still haven't made up my mind yet.
What's to think about?
You goin' right back to work?
First, I'm goin' to Israel for a year, study the Talmud, work on a Kibbutz... then come back, maybe take some tennis lessons.
Today, I'm offering you a lousy job at a lousy wage. You think you're better than that? Fine. Show me. Show me that you're really willing to change and we'll talk about something better. A lot better. But first, Jack, you gotta earn it.
How, Dick? The way <u>you</u> earned it? By marrying some rich broad owns the company, selling it off a piece at a time, then divorcing her? What is this Knute Rockne, pull yourself up by the bootstraps bullshit? Back in prison, guy like you, place like that, you were ice cream for freaks. You were a goddamn dumpling. Maurice and a dozen other guys coulda bled you till you had nothing. Till you <u>were</u> nothing. I saved your ass. So you'll pardon me if I don't wanna sit on a fuckin stool all day saying "sign in here please" or "hey, pal, you can't park there." Okay, Dick? I can't do it.
Jack, I'm disappointed. I guess I misjudged you.
Gentlemen. I think we've calmed down now. Haven't we, Jack?
Oh, yeah, I'm calm. In fact, I'm totally "relaxed..."
Foley? That you?
How are you, Richard?
Jesus Christ, what the hell are you doing here? What's going on? Who's upstairs?
Maurice Miller, couple of his friends.
Maurice? From Lompoc? Good God.
Have they got Midge up there?
What kinda man lets a woman answer the door, this time a night?
We thought it might be her husband. Sometimes he comes and checks up on her. She told him I was down in Florida.
A minute or two, you're gonna wish you were.
What do you want from me, Jack? Name it. You want money?
You gonna write me a check?
We'll go to my bank. I'll make a withdrawal.
Good God... they're shooting Midge!
Siddown, Dick. They're trying to open the safe, not your maid.
I can't believe you're still angry with me, Jack, after all this time.
I'm not angry, Richard. In fact, I'm completely relaxed. Thing is, I can't tell if it's the fish that're cooling me out or all those uncut diamonds on the bottom of the tank there.
Dumbfuck Glenn was right, there's about five million worth in there, wouldn't you say, Richard?
Five point two.
I were you, I'd get up and run.
I'm not leaving Midge.
Don't be an asshole, Richard. They're gonna kill you.
If that's my fate, so be it. I'm not leaving. I love her, Jack.
Some people are going out of here. What if I told you where and when?
How many?
I expect you to look out for me, Pup, let me run off work details.
Okay. How many going out?
I hear six.
When?
Looks like tonight.
You know who they are?
I do, but I won't tell you just yet. Meet me in the chapel at eightthirty, right before lockdown.
He got three years and fined fifty million dollars and wrote 'em a fucking check. Like that, fifty mil, signed his name. Whoa little help here!
Who you talkin' to, Studs? Me, or Buddy. I can't tell, you got those shades on.
You guys come on this is too heavy!
I guess the bright glare out here made it hard to see the numbers on the weights.
I'll take the shades off. Just get this fuckin' thing off me.
Detroit. Snoopy Miller told me uncut diamonds are as easy to move as cash.
Ever seen an uncut diamond, Studs? They look like plain old rocks.
So. What's your point?
My point is, that's probably what you're gonna end up with.
You think he's lying?
Use your head. The guys got five million lying around his house, you really think he's gonna tell some motormouth he just met in prison about it?
Oh, hey, Studs? We thought you were somebody else.
Studs. Man, I haven't heard that since Lompoc. What's going on?
Oh, nuthin'.
Take your sunglasses off.
I see better with them on.
You don't take 'em off, I'm gonna throw 'em off the overpass while they're still on your head.
Wait in the car.
You're in civilization now, man, ease up.
I'd like you to go wait in the car. How's that? Take her with you and put her in back.
In the trunk?
The backseat.
Weren't you expecting us?
That broad you picked up  did you know she was a US Marshal, for Christ sake?
She <i>knew</i> me from some bullshit dope bust. She drove me to court. Twice. You know what she said, we're in the car on the turnpike? "I never forget anybody I've cuffed and shackled."
Yeah? She said that to you?
What happened to your shades? Someone finally step on 'em?
I don't know...
Whose blood you got all over you?
These guys, man, they're crazy. Shit.
I thought you guys were busted.
Why? Just because you left us standing on the side of the road?
Why you're just a girl. What do you do for a living you pack a shotgun?
I'm a federal marshal and you're under arrest, both of you guys.
You comfy?
If I could have a little more room.
There isn't any. All this shit you got in here. What is all this stuff anyway? Handcuffs, chains... what's this can?
For your breath. You could use it. Squirt some in your mouth.
You devil, it's mace, huh? What've you got here, a billy? Use it on poor unfortunate offenders.
Where's your gun, your pistol?
In my bag, in the car.
Boy, it stunk in there.
I believe it. You've ruined a nine hundreddollar suit my dad gave me.
Yeah, went real nice with that twelve gauge, too. Tell me, why in the world would someone like you ever become a federal marshall?
The idea of going after guys like you appealed to me.
Guys like me, huh. Well, listen, even though I've been celibate lately, I'm not gonna force myself on you. I've never done that in my life.
You wouldn't have time anyway. We come to a roadblock, they'll run the car, find out in five seconds who it belongs to.
If they get set up in time, which I doubt. And even if they do they'll be looking for a buncha little Latin fellas, not a big black guy driving a Ford.
Must be quite a pal, risk his own ass like this.
Who, Buddy? Yeah. He's a good guy. Back when we jailed together, he'd call his sister every week without fail. She's a bornagain Christian, does bookkeeping for a televangelist. Buddy calls her up, confesses his sins, tells her about whatever bank he happened to rob.
Buddy. That's his given name?
One I gave him, yeah. Fuck...
So, what's <u>your</u> name? It'll be in the paper tomorrow anyway.
Jack Foley. You've probably heard of me.
Why, are you famous?
Time I was convicted in California? FBI told me I'd robbed more banks than anyone in the computer.
How many was that?
Tell you the truth, I don't know. I started when I was eighteen, driving for my Uncle Cully and his partner, Gus. They go into a bank this one time in Slidell, Gus jumps the counter to get the tellers and breaks his leg. All three of us ended up in Angola.
That's funny.
I thought so, too.
It was me, I woulda left ol' Gus on the floor.
I believe you would have. Another fall, I did seven years at Lompoc. And I don't mean the place next door where some of Nixon's people went.
I know the difference. You were in Lompoc USP, the federal penitentiary. I've delivered people there. So basically you've spent half your life in prison.
Basically. Yeah. If I go back now, I do a full thirty years, no time off. Can you imagine looking at that?
I don't have to. I don't rob banks.
You don't seem all that scared.
Of course I am.
You don't act like it.
What do you want me to do? Scream? I don't think it would help much. I'm just gonna sit back, take it easy, and wait for you to screw up.
Jesus, you sound like my exwife.
You were married? All those falls, I'm surprised you had time.
It was just a year, give or take a few days. I mean, it's not like we didn't get along or anything. We had fun, we just didn't have that... that thing, you know? That spark, you know what I mean? You gotta have that.
Uhhuh.
We still talk, though.
Sure.
You know, this isn't gonna end well, these things never do.
Yeah, well, if it turns out I get shot like a dog, it'll be in the street, not off a goddamn fence.
You must see yourself as some kind of Clyde Barrow.
Oh, you mean of Bonnie and Clyde? Hm. You ever see pictures of him, the way he wore his hat? You could tell he had that don'tgiveashit air about him.
I don't recall his hat, but I've seen pictures of him lying dead, shot by Texas Rangers. Did you know he didn't have his shoes on?
Is that right?
They put a hundred and eightyseven bullet holes in Clyde, Bonnie Parker and the car they were driving. Bonnie was eating a sandwich.
You're full of interesting facts, aren't you?
It was May, 1934, near Gibsland, Louisiana.
That part in the movie where they get shot? Warren Beatty and... I can't think of her name.
Faye Dunaway.
Yeah, I liked her in that movie about TV...
<i>Network</i>. Yeah, she was good.
And the guy saying he wasn't gonna take any more shit from anybody...
Peter Finch.
Yeah, right. Anyway, that scene where Warren Beatty and Faye Dunaway get shot? I remember thinking at the time it wouldn't be a bad way to go, if you have to.
Bleeding on a country road.
It wasn't pretty after, no, but if you were in that car  eating a sandwich  you wouldn't have known what hit you.
You're sure easy to talk to. I wonder  say we met under different circumstances and got to talking, say you were in a bar and I came up to you  I wonder what would happen.
Nothing.
I mean if you didn't know who I was.
You'd probably tell me.
I'm just saying I think if we met under different circumstances...
You have to be kidding.
Another one Faye Dunaway was in I liked, <i>Three Days of the Condor</i>.
With Robert Redford, when he was young.
Yeah...
I never thought it made sense, though, the way they got together so quick.
Really.
I mean, romantically.
Uhhuh. Well, but if 
Get your hands up and turn around. <u>Now</u>.
Shit...
You know who this is?
Yes.
How'd you get this number?
Who was it answered the phone?
None of your business.
I'm just worried maybe I'm not old enough for you.
That's my dad.
Really. He has a cop's face.
How do you know? Wait you have my wallet.
And your gun.
Think I could have them back?
How do we do that?
Let's see. You could come on by my dad's place, drop 'em off.
Sure. I'll just leave 'em with the S.W.A.T. guy answers the door.
There's a guy here on the task force right now. Maybe I should put him on the phone, let you two work it out.
You won't do that.
Why not?
Because you're having too much fun.
My dad's retired. He was a Private Investigator. Forty years. I used to work for him.
I can just picture that, a cute girl like you following slipandfall and whiplash cheaters.
Something I've been wondering, what ever happened to your Uncle Cully?
Why? You think he might tell you where I am?
Unless you wanna tell me.
He's dead. He did twentyseven years before he came out and died not too long after in Charity Hospital, I think trying to make up for all the good times he'd missed. That's not gonna be me.
One last score, that the idea? Move to some island.
I'm partial to mountains myself. But if you like islands, we'll make it an island.
Whatta you mean <u>we'll</u> make it an island?
I just thought maybe you and me could
It takes hours to get a drink around here. There's only one waitress.
I can go to the bar.
Don't leave me.
Those guys bother you?
No, they're all right. I meant, you just got here.
You like bourbon?
Love it.
Well, we got that out of the way. Tell me, Celeste. What do you do for a living?
I'm a sales rep. I came here to call on a customer and they gave me a hard time because I'm a girl.
Is that how you think of yourself?
What, as a sales rep?
A girl.
I don't have a problem with it.
I like your hair. And that suit.
I had one just like it  well, it was the same idea, but I had to get rid of it.
You did?
It smelled.
Having it cleaned didn't help, huh?
No. What do you do for a living, Gary?
How far do we go with this?
Not yet. Don't say anything yet. Okay?
I don't think it works if we're somebody else. You know what I mean? Gary and Celeste, Jesus, what do they know about anything?
It's your game. I've never played this before.
It's not a game. Something you play.
Well, does it make sense to you?
It doesn't have to, it's something that happens. It's like seeing a person you never saw before  you could be passing on the street  you look at each other and for a few seconds, there's a kind of recognition. Like you both know something. But then the next moment the person's gone, and it's too late to do anything about it, but you remember it because it was right there and you let it go, and you think, "What if I had stopped and said something?" It might happen only a few times in your life.
Or once.
Oh, God...
I called your room from downstairs.
If I had answered, what were you gonna say?
Well, I'd say who I was and do you remember me and ask if you'd like to meet for a drink.
If I remembered you. I came looking for you. I would've said sure, let's do it. But for all you knew I could show up with a SWAT team. Why would you trust me?
It would be worth the risk.
You like taking risks.
So do you.
You really wear that suit.
That's not what you were about to say.
Remember how talkative you were? In the trunk? Adele said you do that when you're nervous.
She did, huh.
You kept touching me, feeling my thigh.
Yeah, but in a nice way.
I might've smelled like a sewer, but you could tell I was a gentleman. They say John Dillinger was a pretty nice guy.
He killed a police officer.
I hear he didn't mean to. The cop fell as Dillinger was aiming at his leg and got him through the heart.
You believe that?
Why not?
What were you gonna do with me?
I don't know. I hadn't worked that part out yet. All I knew was that I liked you, and I didn't want to leave you there, never see you again.
You waved to me in the elevator.
I wasn't sure you caught that.
I couldn't believe it. I was thinking of you by then, a lot, wondering what it would be like if we did meet. Like if we could take a timeout...
Really? I was thinking the same thing. If we could call time and get together for a while.
You know I saw you on the street.
Where?
Outside Adele's.
You were going to see her?
To warn her about Chino.
So she did help you?
I don't think we should get into that.
No, you're right. Or Buddy. I won't ask if he's with you or what you're doing here in Detroit. Or if you've run into Glenn Michaels yet.
Don't talk like that, okay? You scare me.
You coming back?
I'm just going to the bathroom.
I want you to know something. I wasn't looking for just a fuck, if that's what you're thinking.
Why are you mad?
Or I did it for some kind of kinky thrill. Score with a bank robber the way some women go for rough trade.
What about <i>my</i> motive? Now I can say I fucked a US Marshal. You think I will?
I don't know.
You're not dumb.
I don't know about that. You can't do three falls and think you have much of a brain.
You getting serious on me now?
I'm trying not to. I just wanna know what's gonna happen.
You know.
Come on, Jack  don't.
Pretend I'm somebody else.
You think I'd shoot you?
If you don't, one of those guys will.
What're you now, a desperado? Put the guns down.
I told you, I'm not going back.
I'm sorry, Jack, but I can't shoot you.
You just did, for Christ sake.
You know what I mean.
Sign says "Shut the fuck up." Or can't you guys read?
There a problem, Foley?
Yeah.
Yeah, I got a problem. This is the dumbest fucking shakedown in the history of dump shakedowns. Three hundred bucks for a pillow?
That's right.
How much for your company at chow?
Company, shit. I watch the man's back.
I bet. How much?
Another C.
This doesn't concern you, Foley. Why don't you go on out to the yard, have yourself a smoke?
I don't smoke.
Himey here's a protohjay of mine. He's ranked number thirtytwo in the federal prison system.
Thirtytwo outta what, twenty?
Snoopy Miller, famous fight thrower.
It seems to me I been reading about you in the newspaper. Busted out of some joint in Florida, huh?
Low class of people there, Snoop.
Like being back in the yard, huh?
Just like it. Nobody backing down. You back down, you pussy. Tell me what you and Buddy doing up here in the cold?
Glenn didn't tell you?
Look, Snoop, I don't know what Glenn promised you or what you think you're gonna get, but the deal is me and Buddy get half of whatever we take from Ripley, understand? How you and Glenn cut up the rest is up to you.
Let's go outside and talk.
What's the matter with right here? It's nice and warm.
Warm? Man, it's ninetyfive degrees in here, sometimes a hundred  the way Emanuel always kep' it so his boys'd sweat, get lean and mean like Tommy Hearns. No, I ain't talking any business in here. To me this is holy ground, man. You understand? I got to be someplace anyway. Y'all want to talk, come to the fights tomorrow night, we'll sit down and look at it good. The State Theater.
Who's sitting here?
Your homie, Glenn. Only thing, he went to the men's about a while ago and never came back.
Reggie, push off and hit, man. Push him off.
We're leaving.
The fuck you talking about?
Snoop, if you don't know where Glenn is...
Look, what you worried about Glenn for? What's he know?
I thought everything.
Soon as we leave here. Stop home and pick up what we need and go do it.
Give me a minute, talk to Buddy.
You got two minutes, that's all. Make up your mind.
I wasn't asking permission.
That what they're wearing these days to break and enter?
Break and enter, shit. Take it and git, how it's done. Don't waste any time. That's how you do it.
So you've done this before, huh?
Shit, yeah. White Boy even got busted for it. White Boy, tell these boys the reason you went down on that burglary that time.
Takes the TV, the VCR, some other shit and leaves his wallet on the floor.
That's a wonderful story, Snoop. I'm very excited about tonight.
Hey. You learn from doing.
You know how to use one a these?
I've seen 'em used on TV.
Good luck, Richard.
Someone down here?
Jack, you don't use a gun, do you?
Not until recently.
Nervous?
A little.
This kind of setup, you don't have any idea what the fuck you're doing  do you?
You're right. So why take a chance
Ironic, isn't it?
How are you, Raymond?
Freezing. But I'm getting warmer.
Quite a mess.
Yeah. And I thought everyone liked Eddie.
Who?
Dude in the dress is Eddie Solomon, used to buy scag off a corner till he kicked it and found his happiness with crack and then started dealing himself. Word on the street was he was saving up for an operation.
What is it with crack and transsexuals?
Yeah, Eddie was a real character. Had these girls cooked the rocks he called the Rockettes.
Yeah. I saw one of 'em outside.
Yonelle. Looks like someone raped her, shot her, then threw her out the window. Fuckin' animals.
Other than we had so much fun the last time we worked together. You gonna tell me why you're comin' to me instead of the FBI?
I report to the FBI, first thing they're gonna do is ask me to go get some coffee.
You know, I'm not in homicide any more.
No, I didn't know that.
Yeah, I'm crimes against persons and property now, also sex crimes and child abuse.
Detroit, you must be pretty busy.
Yeah, and, as you can see, home invasions are big, too.
Listen, Raymond, a year ago, DEA had this guy Glenn Michaels on possession with intent but couldn't make it stick. In his statement, Glenn said he went up to Detroit to visit a friend and look into job opportunities  if you can believe that.
Who was the friend?
Guy named Maurice Miller, also known as Snoopy, a former prizefighter.
Christ, I know Snoopy Miller. He's a fuckin' wackjob thinks he's Sugar Ray Leonard. Hangs out with a couple other GradeA nutcases over on the West side.
I'll need a last known address.
That's fine, but I don't want you to talk to Miller alone.
Come on, Raymond, I'm a federal officer, I'm armed.
Hello?
We're a few minutes away. Just sit tight, stay outta the house till we get there, understand?
Ohkay...
Karen, I told you not to
Wait, I know him okay?
You excited?
I told you, man, Super Bowl Sunday.
Yeah, but I see you moved it up.
Why you think is today?
You were out running this morning, sticking to your routine, anybody happened to notice. But you only did a couple of miles instead of your usual five. Saving yourself for the main event. Then I see you inside eating ten pounds of macaroni. Carbohydrates for endurance.
You want, I tole you you can come. You all right, Foley. I like you.
You told me I can come 'cause I caught you digging the fuckin' tunnel, saw you and Lulu coming out of the bushes, thought maybe you two were making out.
You see what they doing, those posts out there? Putting up another fence, five metres on the other side of the one that's there. We wait until Super Bowl Sunday, they could have the second fence built and we have to dig another nine, ten days. So we going soon as it's dark. You want  I mean it  you can still come.
I appreciate the offer. And it's tempting.
Leave it where it is.
Wait. You not Adele?
I'm a federal marshal and you're under arrest. Put the gun on the table. I mean, now.
Oh. Then this must be Adele...
Put it down or I'll shoot.
You wouldn't shoot me, would you?
What do you want to bet?
I could walk out of here.
If you move, if you look at her again, you're dead.
You can live or die, it's up to you.
Oh, is that right? You going to shoot me? Nice girl like you? I don't think so.
You don't, huh?
Daniel Burdon, please. Karen Sisco.
Excuse me, Adele?
Hello, Daniel.
Daniel Burdon, FBI.
I wanna be on the task force, Daniel.
That's nice of you to offer, Karen, but I got all the help I can use right now. Instead, let's talk about how you got the bump on your head.
Isn't that my report you're holding onto?
Yes, but I want to hear you tell it. Starting with when you tried to grab the wheel  where was this?
Coming to the Okeechobee exit...
There's a couple of points I keep wondering about have to do with the two guys that grabbed you. Buddy is it? And this fella Jack Foley. I swear the man must've robbed two hundred banks in his time.
Really? Huh. He told me he didn't remember how many he robbed.
You talked to him?
In the trunk, yeah?
What'd you talk about?
Oh... different things, prison, movies.
This fella holds you hostage, you talk about movies?
It was an unusual experience.
Foley made me think of that fella Carl Tillman, the one you were seeing, it turns out the same time he was doing banks. You recall that?
When I was seeing Carl Tillman, I didn't know he robbed banks.
Yeah, but I had enough reason to believe he did, and I told you. So you had to at least suspect him.
And what happened to Carl?
The time came, you shot him. But you didn't shoot Foley or the guy with him. They're unarmed, you had a shotgun and you let them throw you in the trunk. Okay, now you got your Sig in your hand. You say in the report you couldn't turn around, he had you pinned down. But when the trunk opened, how come you didn't cap the two guys then?
Is that what you would've done?
You say in the report Glenn didn't have a gun, but you let him get away, too.
Daniel, what do you work on most of the time, fraud? Go after crooked bookkeepers.
Karen, I've been with the Bureau fifteen years, on all kinds of investigations.
Have you ever shot a man? How many times have you been primary through the door?
I have to qualify, is that it?
You have to know what you're talking about.
We'll talk another time, Karen. All right? I'd like to know why Foley put you in that second car when he didn't need you any more.
You'll have to ask him.
Sounds to me like he liked having you around. I'll see you, Karen. Mr. Sisco.
Shut up.
Karen. Where are you? I been trying to get a hold of you.
Daniel. Listen 
Where are you? I been trying to reach you.
I'm at Adele Delisi's.
What we already talked to her. That's a dead end.
Yeah, I know. I was just leaving. Why were you trying to reach me?
There was a Buddy Bragg at Lompoc around the same time Foley was there. We got an address for him at the Adams Hotel in Hallandale. I want you to go there, see if you can get the manager to i.d. him as the other guy. If he does, you call me right away...
All right, but...
But don't you <u>do</u> anything. You just have a seat, wait for me to get there.
Sure, Daniel.
Now. What is it you wanted to tell me?
Oh, I was just wondering, if I were to bring in Chirino, would you put me on the task force?
What? Is that what you're calling me about?
Yes or no, Daniel. If I get him, will you let me go after Foley?
Yeah, sure, Karen. You bring in Chirino, you can be on the task force.
That's all I wanted to know.
Good. Now forget about the exwife and get over to the Adams Hotel.
You get the key?
They're in 7D.
You're primary, you're secondary, you're point man.
You're gonna use a ram?
Yeah, why?
The manager's door is metal.
Take the radio, stay down here in the lobby, watch the elevator.
What? Daniel, I wanna go upstairs.
You can go wait out in the car, you want to.
Now you see Foley and this guy Bragg come in behind us, whatta you do?
Call and tell you.
And you let them come up. You don't try to make the bust yourself. You understand?
It's Richard Ripley.
The Wall Street guy? Oh, yeah. I didn't recognize him without his rug.
I bet that's all the hacks they send out. Otherwise nobody's left to mind the store.
Why don't we talk about it later?
Where in the hell are we?
That's the turnpike up there. Glenn's waiting with the other car.
Okay, honey, come on out of there.
We may as well leave her, we're leaving the car and we gotta leave her some place anyway, what's the difference where?
She's coming with us.
Jesus Christ, what were you doing in there?
Get the shotgun. And her purse. I'd like to know who she is.
Do we need him?
The greenandwhites saw us. One of 'em starts thinking, what's that car doing there? Ties it to the break and turns around...
Wait a minute. Let me have your raincoat. Somebody forgot to bring me clean clothes.
I brought 'em, they're back at Glades in the Cadillac. You wanted to take her car.
Why you brought Glenn into this, I'll never know.
How 'bout the score was his idea to begin with?
His idea? Gimme a break. Fuckin' guy's got a vacant lot for a head. Was you and me figured the whole thing out.
I don't know why, but every time he opens his mouth I want to punch him out.
He ain't the problem, Jack.
You want to take her to my place and get cleaned up? You come out of the bathroom with your aftershave on and she goes, "Oh, I had you all wrong"?
I want to talk to her again, that's all. See what would happen under, you know, normal circumstances.
You're too late, Jack.
I'm just saying she wasn't scared.
Cause she had her hand on her gun the whole time, waiting to make her move.
You're just jealous it was me in the trunk with her and not you.
You're right.
I've been dreaming about a hot bath for the last six months. Soak the prison off me.
There's some lilac oil, you want some, a vanilla candle under the sink.
Oh, man.
There's something about a nice hot bath, transforms a person. It's not just about opening up your pores, know what I mean? There's just something about the heat and the wet that's calming you know? Settles me in a way that I really can't articulate.
I know exactly what you mean. It's just a feeling. You know, I could go for some wine tonight.
There's a store around the corner, I'll be right back.
Sounds great.
They pass this picture around you can go anywhere you want, nobody'll know you.
I wasn't feeling my best that day. I'd just drawn thirty to life.
Maybe this'll make you feel better.
Paper says there's ten grand each on you, Chino and Lulu.
Say anything in there about Karen Sisco?
Just that she got away.
Yeah, but what happened after she drove off with Glenn?
You'll have to ask Glenn. And most likely, he's on his way to Detroit, where we should be.
Think this old guy is her boyfriend? It's the only picture she carries.
Am I going to Detroit by myself?
Longer we hang around down here, Jack, better chance there is either Glenn's gonna fuck up the whole score, or we gonna get busted, or both.
We'll leave first thing in the morning.
What?!
You better come see this.
Chino's gonna wanna talk to me.
He's running for his life, he doesn't give a shit about you.
He's gotta know by now that I gave him up back at Glades. He does, he's gonna try to find me. Maybe go see Adele, see what she knows.
He knows where she lives?
Jack?
We were talking one time, drinking rum. I may've mentioned Adele, how she worked for a magician. Chino got interested. He's like, Yeah? How does he saw the woman in half? He wanted to meet her. Or get a look at her if she ever came to visit.
So call her up. Tell her don't talk to any Cubans.
Her phone's probably tapped.
And you know they're gonna have some people watching the hotel.
Shit.
Nice disguise.
I'm a tourist.
You at least bring the gun?
In here with my suntan lotion and beach towel. That's her place.
There. You see the guy sitting on the porch? The old ladies and one guy? You know they'll have a couple more in a car somewhere.
Uhhuh...
I guess Adele's in good hands.
Sure looks that way.
Let's go to Detroit.
Now you're talkin'.
First thing we do, we get to Detroit, we find Glenn, then we find a window to throw him out of.
I been thinkin', if I was Glenn, I was up there to take down the Ripper, where would I go?
Well, first off, if you were Glenn, you wouldn't be thinking.
Remember Snoopy Miller, his old pal from Lompoc?
Snoopy. Christ, I thought he'd be brain dead by now.
He isn't fighting no more. Glenn told me the Snoop's been managing some guys up there now, works out at the Kronk.
They know where I live, I guess they know what I drive, so maybe we should pick up another car on the way.
She just sat there, looking right at me.
"Fight over tuna casserole may have spurred slaying." Seems this woman's livein boyfriend, seventy years old, complained about her tuna noodle casserole and she shot him in the face with a twelvegauge. Police found noodles in the woman's hair and think the guy dumped the casserole dish on her before she shot him. They'd been together ten years.
Love is funny.
Whatta you think?
I think Glenn opened his big mouth and now we got us another partner.
Or two.
Is that Snoopy? In the purple doo rag?
What's he do now, tell fortunes?
Outside of that.
Doesn't say what she's doing up here, but I don't think it has anything to do with us.
She came up here on her vacation, 'cause she likes shitty weather.
I think she's after Glenn. The girl still with you?
They don't stay the night, Jack, 'less you pay for it.
You tell your sister about it?
Just hung up.
How long you talk to her?
Two hours.
How long were you with the girl?
Fortyfive minutes.
You didn't tell your sister about Ripley, did you? 'Cause I don't wanna go through that again.
Forget about my sister. If Karen Sisco's tailing Glenn, we're fucked. Tomorrow night at the fights we all get picked up.
Let's drive by where we're meeting and have a look. Maybe take a look at Ripley's place while we're at it.
Now that's a really big house.
Jesus, look at that wall. Place almost looks like a prison.
No doubt the man's got some bigass security system.
Time comes, we knock on the door. See if he wants to talk about old times. Go in the easy way.
Yeah? You think he'll let us in, we got Snoopy and the musclebound asshole with us?
Who says anybody's gonna be with us? I say we go to the fights tomorrow, find out what the Snoop's big plan is, then go in ahead of those guys  <u>alone</u>.
Let Glenn deal with the Snoop, while we're off livin' the good life.
Tell me something, Buddy. You know anyone who's actually done one last big score and gone to live the good life? Cause it occurred to me that everyone <u>talks</u> about doing it, but I don't know anyone who's actually gone and <u>done</u> it. Do you?
What about that D.B. Cooper guy?
I mean, they don't know for sure he's dead. Look, there's always a chance we'll walk out've there with nothing. I say let fate decide.
Let fate decide? What're you, the fuckin' Dali Lama now?
My sister believes in fate, but not hell. That's why she stopped praying for the lost souls since you don't hear that much about purgatory anymore. But every day she asks her boss to pray I don't fuck up. Whatta you think, you think there's a hell, Jack?
Yeah, it's called Glades Correctional Institution and I'm sure as shit not going back there or any place like it.
You might not have a choice.
They put a gun on you, you'll go back.
They put a gun on you, you still have a choice, don't you?
Listen, I gotta get some better shoes, few other things before tomorrow. Why don't you drop me off at the Ren Cen, we'll hook up later?
Yeah, and I better call my sister.
It took you, what, seven hours to buy a pair of shoes?
I saw Karen Sisco.
And she saw you?
Yes, she did.
So how's that work, a wanted felon socializing with a U.S. Marshal?
You know how I felt about her.
Did you give her a jump? If you did I might begin to understand where your head's at.
It wasn't about getting laid. I just wanted to know what might've happened if things were different.
You find out?
Yeah, I did.
So what's that mean? That you're disappointed by what you found or you're sorry you robbed all those banks?
I don't know.
They want to go tonight, before Glenn gets in any trouble, opens his big mouth.
Whatta you wanna do?
You know they gonna set us up.
I get that feeling, yeah.
But you still think you can get the diamonds fore they do?
I'll make you a deal. Get out of here. Right now. I'll do the job with the Snoop, meet you wherever you want and give you half.
Half for doing what?
Getting me out of Glades for starters.
And who watches your back?
There's still time, take me up on my offer.
I'm not leaving you alone with these assholes.
You ever wear one of these?
I don't ski.
Stay with the maid. I'm gonna have a look around.
They found the safe.
You remember Buddy, don't you, Richard?
Yeah, hi. Nice house.
They look like plain old rocks.
They sure do.
Come <i>on</i>.
Shit.
What?
They're gonna rape the maid, aren't they.
From the looks of those boys, the Ripper too.
And then they'll kill 'em.
At least.
We made it, didn't we?
All you gotta do is get in.
I'm going back inside.
I'll go with you.
No, you dump the van, meet me at the airport. I'll take one of Ripley's cars.
Jack 
Listen, Buddy, the shit that's about to go down, you'll be on the phone with your sister for a month. Let me do this part alone.
Adele? You in there?
Yes.
I talk to the guy you work for, Emil. He tole me your number and where you live. See, I'm looking for an assistant and would like to speak to you.
Oh. Uhhuh.
You did work for Emil, right?
Yeah, I was Emil's boxjumper for almost four years.
You were his what, his box?
His assistant.
You say you perform in the Miami area?
Yes, around here. I was a mayishan in Cuba before I come here. Manuel the Mayishan was my name.
I'm not dressed.
Listen to me. I'm a good friend of Jack Foley.
Wait in the hall! I have to get dressed!
Tell me where is Jack Foley, I don't bother you no more.
I don't know where he is.
Listen, I'm the one help Jack escape from prison. He tole me, I can't find him to see you. So why don't you open this fucking door. Okay? So we can speak.
Go away, or I'll call the police.
Why you want to do that, to a frien'?
You were <i>both</i> in the trunk? Together?
From Glades to the turnpike. Then I left with Glenn.
The FBI didn't tell you I was with them?
They didn't <i>tell</i> me anything, they asked questions.
But you know what I'm talking about, don't you? About Glenn, don't you, and the second car?
I know a Glenn.
I'm getting ready to go out. You can come in if you want, sit down for a minute. Would you like a Diet Coke?
No, thanks.
He didn't hurt you or anything, did he?
You mean, did he try to jump me? No, but he was kind of talkative.
He gets that way when he's nervous sometimes.
You didn't visit him in prison.
He didn't want me to.
Why not?
I don't know. He was different after he was sentenced, looking at thirty years. Said it depressed him every time the younger cons called him an old timer.
But you spoke to him on the phone.
He'd call every once in a while.
He called the day he escaped.
He did? I don't remember. Did he say about me? In the trunk?
He said he wished the two of you could start over, live a normal life.
Huh. Problem is, Jack's idea of a normal life is robbing banks. It's all he's ever done.
Did you know that when you married him?
He said he was a card player. I could live with that. I never knew he robbed banks till he got busted with that car that caught fire  if you can imagine something like that happening, comes out of the bank and the car's on fire. I did go see him in jail to tell him I was filing for divorce. He said, "Okay." Jack's so easy going. He was fun, but never what you'd call a real husband.
I'll say one thing for Jack, he was never ugly or mean, or drank too much. He was very considerate, lights on or off, if you know what I mean.
Really. Hm.
Adele, sooner or later, he's gonna get caught. I'd like to get him before he does something else, makes it worse on himself.
Buddy'll take care of him. Keep him out've trouble. He's Jack's conscience. Always has been. He tell you how they met?
Jack came out of a bank he just robbed in Pasadena, couldn't get his stolen car to start. Battery was dead. He looks over, sees Buddy sitting in a burgundy Bonneville, goes up, offers him a thousand dollars for a jump. Turns out, Buddy was casing the same bank and saw the whole thing. Buddy says, I'll take the thousand, but we're leaving in my car, not that piece of shit you come in. They musta robbed fifty banks together.
Till they got busted.
That wasn't Jack's fault. No, that was on account of Buddy, for some reason, decided to call his sister and confess to a job <u>before</u> they'd done it instead of after. She called the FBI and they both went down, ended up at Lompoc. I think Buddy felt kinda bad about that.
Any idea where I could find Buddy? Or Glenn?
Ask him his name.
Who are you?
You're good.
Thank you.
Oh, is this Adele?
Yes, it is.
Uh sorry. Wrong number.
I want to speak with you, please.
Who is it?
Lie face down on the floor.
What?!
Yes.
You do the sawing of the box in half trick with you inside?
Yes.
Tell me, how do you do that?
That's funny, Adele. How many more times you gonna gimme that one?
Till it's not funny any more. What do you want, Jack?
You know that Super Bowl party? They changed the date. It's on <u>tonight</u>, eightthirty.
Didn't you tell me onetime calls aren't monitored?
I said not as a rule.
So why don't you come right out and tell me what you're talking about?
Listen to Miss Smarty Mouth. Out there in the free world.
What's free about it? I'm looking for work.
What happened to Mandrake the Magician?
Emil the Amazing. The bastard fired me and hired another girl, a redhead. I'm working on a new business card, pass out to the cafes. How's this sound
Listen, Adele, the reason I called, that party is today instead of Sunday. About eightthirty, like only a few hours from now. So you'll have to get hold of Buddy, whatever he might be doing...
And the one driving the other car?
What're you talking about?
Well, seeing as you have so much luck with cars, Buddy thought it might be better to bring two. He got this guy he says you know from Lompoc, Glenn something.
Glenn Michaels.
Yeah, that's him. Buddy says Glenn thinks you guys are real cool.
He did, huh. Well, tell Buddy I see Glenn wearing his sunglasses I'll step on 'em. I might not even take 'em off first.
I don't like snakes. I remember the one Cleopatra used. Cute little rascal until it flicked out that red tongue, and those two sharp fangs. You'd never think such a little thing packed such a big wallop.
Aaaaahhnnnhaaaaaannnhhh?
Hurt her? Hell, it killed her!
Aaaahhhhnnnahhhnnnggnnn.
We had lots of snakes in my ancient Egypt...slimy, slinky things.
Aahhhhnnnaaahahnn. AaaaaahhhhoooWWWOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO!
When I was alive, they were the things nightmares were made of.
Aaarrrgggaahh.
He wants us.
Aaahhnnnahnnnn.
What do you suppose for?
Aaaaannnnnuuunnnuhhhhh?
Did you do something to get us into trouble again?
Aannnnaahhnn.
Did you howl offkey at the moon again?
Aannnnaahhnn.
I can't remember doing anything wrong either.
I could make her another Cleopatra...
Ahh hahahhnnn hahnnn!
Without the snake, of course.
Ahh, the curiousity of youth... on the road to ruin! May it ever be so adventurous!
I'm so frightened.
AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA.
I have promised both The Wolf Man and The Mummy a reward. It could be that <b>you</b> are that reward.
AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA.
You need not worry...Not just now, anyway.
No. No! No!
I repulse you? Very well. It seems you have chosen your own fate. Live with it! I should say <b>die</b> with it!
They are live ones?
Yes, Master.
Live ones where only the dead should be?
Yes, Master, and we caught them, him and me.
Have we in some way made you angry, Master?
You know better than that.
We don't know of anything, Master...
Then why do you shake so?
It's not often an Emperor like <i>you</i> calls on creatures like us.
Well rest easy, I'm not angry with either of you.
Aaaahhhh.
Then it is some service you desire of us.
You are the keepers of the Damned. You two know them all. And I am tired of this usual type of entertainment. I want...a decided change.
There are one or two which should complement the night's entertainment, Master
Ahh, good. Then I will see them. Dismiss the rest.
Yes, sir, Master.
But they are not yet one of us.
A situation easily remedied.
Tie them that they may watch.
...And what is this?
A symbol, Master.
What kind of symbol?
She loved the bull ring and the matador. She danced to their destruction. Now she dances to her own destruction. Her dance is of skulls.
She came to us on the Day of the Dead.
El Dia De Los Muertos...A celebration in her country.
Her dance has pleased me.
She was?
As I said, a worshipper of snakes, and of smoke, and flames.
Oh, yes, a religion of sorts.
It would seem so, Master.
She pleases me. Permit her to live in the World of the Snakes.
Now, I will talk...to The Wolf Man...and The Mummy.
As you wish, Master
Yes, yes yes I know all that.
At the first sight of the morning sun's rays, we must be gone.
I suppose most of the others will have to wait for their judgement until after the next full moon.
It would seem so, Master
Ahh, but I declare there is still time for <i>some</i>thing.
She is to be <b>mine!</b> It is so spoken!
The Princess of Darkness would have you for her own to join us through extreme pain. Yet I am inclined for one as lovely as you, to be more lenient. I have but to touch you with my finger, and it would mean the end of you, all over, quickly and painlessly...
Well?
Ahh, she will be yours.
When!?
At your discretion...But first, I desire more entertainment.
The moon is almost gone!
Ahh, there is yet time.
At the first sight of the morning's rays' light...
I know the laws of the night. I state there is still time for yet another.
I would have time for my own pleasures!
Your own pleasure comes only after mine, when I desire it. I am the Sole Ruler of the Dark World. There is no one to challenge my authority here. My word is the lawall powerful. <b>No one</b> is to challenge that authority, <b>no one!</b>. Is that understood? It is my command.
I understand, Master
Then see that it does not happen again, in the penalty of Everlasting Despair. Now are there others?
There are others.
Well then let us proceed.
The moon sinks lower into the hills! We must hurry to the finish.
I will decide the conclusion.
You had the mummy cancel all the others scheduled for this session.
Then cancel my order.
The <b>moon</b> is almost <b>gone!</b>
There is yet time. Don't you want your own pleasure?
Oh, if there is only time!
Hahh, there is always time... All in good time...there is <b>always</b> time. You shall have your pleasure. <b>THAT</b>... I <i>decree</i>
All others were but infinitessimal bits of fluff, compared to <i>her</i> This one would have <i>died</i> for feathers, furs, and fluff...and so she did!
The time...is short.
For what!?!
Your pleasures of course!
You mean...!
You may take her now.
Is there time?
You better hope there is.
Thank you, Master! Thank you.
Now hurry, hurry. I will watch! Your desires may be my pleasure also...Our fitting climax to an evening's enter tainment. You must...hurry now.
We sure picked the wrong night to find a cemetery. Let's turn back.
No. It's on a night like this when the best ideas come to mind.
But does it have to be in a cemetery?
You wouldn't understand. Seeing a cemetery on a night like this can stir in the mind the best ideas for a good horror story.
But there're so many wonderful things to write about, Bob.
Sure there areand I've tried them all. Plays, love stories, westerns, dog stories. Huh, now there was a good one, that dog story all about
But horror stories! Why all the time horror stories?
Shirley, I wrote for years without selling a single word.
Your puritan upbringing holds you back from my monsters, but it certainly doesn't hurt your art of kissing.
That's life. My kisses are alive.
Who's to say my monsters aren't alive?
All of my books are based on fact, or legend. Thats perhaps why they're more interesting and sell in the top spots.
Well, fact or not, I don't see how we're going to find an ancient cemetery in these mountains tonight. I can't see a thing! Let's turn back.
There's an old cemetery on this road. I've been there before.
I'm getting the jitters! Let's turn back!
Okay.
Well we certainly can't stay here. C'mon.
Where?
In there.
It frightens me.
Silly, there's nothing in there to be afraid of.
Then..then what's that music?
That's what I want to find out. We have to get help.
What help can we possibly find in the cemetery at this time of night?
Something's making that music.
I'm not sure I care to find out what it is.
All right. Don't worry, I'll be right beside you.
What help will that do if something in there isn't dead?
Not dead? In a cemetery?
I can't imagine anything dead playing that music.
Well, it's probably just the caretaker, and that's exactly who we want to find. They'll have a telephone. C'mon.
Could it be some kind of college initiation?
It's an initiation all right, but not of a college as you and I know them. Nothing alive looks like that!
Can't we get out of here?
I'm not sure...
What do you mean?
I'm not sure, myself. It's just a feeling I've had since the crash...Like I feel a cold chill all over.. ..Now this!
Look!
Be careful!They'll see you.
I'm so frightened.
You've got a right to be. We're trapped by a bunch of fiends.
Those creatures..!
Don't let them hear you.
What can we do?
I don't know. I just don't know. But don't give up. We're not finished yet.
Easy Shirley, Easy! Panic won't do us any good! Let me think. We've got to stall for time.
I'm afraid I'll faint.
Whatever you do, don't do that.
The ropes are coming loose.
Be careful!
I amIt's our only chance.
Nothing is worth your life.
My guess is if we don't take the chance pretty soon, we're not going to have much life left anyway.
I'm frightened. I'm so frightened.
Hold on just a little longer, Shirley.
Be careful, oh please be careful. We'll never get out of here alive, I know it. I just feel it.
You do?
Yes I feel it in my bones.
You're talking nonsense.
Oh, no I'm not. These heathens probably have an open grave for us.
They wouldn't dare put us in the same grave <b>or would they?</b>
I should hope not. I hate you!
That sudden?
Yes, that sudden. If it weren't for you we wouldn't be hunting for an old cemetery on a night like this. It's all your fault.
...And I thought you loved me.
I've got the ropes loose now. I've got my hands free. Be carefulDon't change your expression too much. They must not catch on.
What can we do against them?
I don't know, yet. We'll just have to watch our chance. When it comes I'll know what to doI hope I'll know what to do.
I still don't know what ever made me go steady with a crackpot writer like you.
All right. Put it on heavy.
My old boyfriend Tommy would never have gotten me in a mess like this. At least <i>he's</i> got brains.
<i>Him!</i> I'll bet he sleeps with all the lights on.
Maybe so.
I love you Bob. I really do. Forgive me?
There's nothing to forgive. It was all a dream.
You love me then?
Of course I do.
Leave her alone, you fiend!
Fiend is it! You will not be so fortunate. Your existence will cease within moments. No one wishes to see a man dance... And you, my dear, will entertain for centuries to come.
If I could get my hands on you...
..Oh, You could do nothing! I can save you much pain.
Leave her alone, I tell you!
I do not joke in my proposal.
The brother of Charley the Gent. They'll help us get to the bottom of the river.
Keep Charley out of this.
You don't think he'd be helpful?
Go ask him, why don't you ? Ask him yourself.
Maybe I will one of these days.
One of these days.
Listen Nolan
What are you down here for to see we don't make off with any of Mister Friendly's precious cargo?
Nolan... .
A banana boat. It would be bananas. One of these days me ship's comin' in from Ireland, God love 'er, loaded to the gunnels with sweet Irish whiskey!
Nolan, me lad, ye're dreamin' again.
You see, Kayo, the good Lord watches over us after all.
When we knock off let's have a bit of a party. We'll drink to God and Ireland, its whiskey and its women, to Joey and Edie and death to tyrants everywhere... .!
You think one bottle's enough for all them toasts?
Patrick, me lad, I'm ahead of you.
I was afraid one bottle might get lonely by itself. Now you see the advantage of a little man in a big coat.
Definitely! Nolan, my boy, you're a walkin' distillery.
I wonder how many Hail Marys the Father'll make me say at confession. It'll be worth it! The pallet is loaded now. Terry turns and approaches Nolan.
Tippitippitim, tippitim, Tippitippitan, tippitan... Gotta dime for a crippledup docker?
Go on, beat it!
A dime, Terry, a dime for a cup of coffee?
Don't give me that coffee, you rummy. Now blow!
Thanks for nothing, you bum.
A dime. One thin dime for a cup of coffee.
Coffee, that's a laugh. His belly is used to nothing but rotgut whiskey.
One little dime you don't need. I know you you're Edie Doyle. Your Brother's a saint only one ever tried to get me my compensation.
Yeah, yeah Here's half a buck, go have yourself a ball.
I can't believe it a small fortune. You can't buy me you're still a bum! 'Bye, Edie. Lord have mercy on Joey.
Look who says bum!
You got some nerve.
What do you mean?
You know what I mean. Leave her alone.
I was only talkin' to her.
She's off limits for bums like you. Leave her alone.
I can look at her, can't I? It's a free country.
Not that free.
H'ya, slugger, how they hangin'?
Soso, Johnny.
Don't hit me, now, don't hit me!
Count this.
Aw, you know I don't like to count, Johnny.
It's good for you. Develops your mind.
Shut up. I like the kid. Remember the night he took Farella at St. Nick's, Charley. We won a bundle. Real tough. A big try.
Not a dent. Perfect
My favorite little cousin.
Thirtysix sev aah I lost the count.
OK skip it, Einstein. How come you never got no education like the rest of us?
I know, Johnny, I know... .
Takin' over this local, you know it took a little doin'. Some pretty tough fellas were in the way. They left me this to remember them by.
Do you?
Well, no, Johnny, I just thought I should've been told if
You come from Green Point? Go back to Green Point. You don't work here no more. Here, kid, here's half a bill. Go get your load on.
Naw, thanks, Johnny, I don't want it, I
Go on a little present from your Uncle Johnny. And Mac, tomorra mornin' when you shape the men put Terry in the loft. Number one. Every day. Nice easy work. Check in and goof off on the coffee bags. O.K.?
Thanks, Johnny... .
I I was just on my way up, Johnny.
By way of Chicago?
It must have been once too often. I think your brains come apart. What you got up there, Chinese bells?
Aw, Johnny... .
I thought you were gonna keep an eye on that church meeting.
Nothing happened, Johnny.
Nothing happened, he says. Some operator you got yourself there, Charley. One more like him and we'll all be wearing striped pajamas.
It was a big nothing! The Father did all the talking.
Oh, he did. Half an hour later a certain Timothy J. Nolan went into secret session with the Commission and he did all the talking.
You mean Kayo Nolan, the old timer? He doesn't know much.
He don't, huh? Well, he knows thirtynine pages worth of our operation.
How'd you get that.
I got it. Hot off the press.
Guts! A crummy pigeon who's looking to get his neck wrung! You should have You should have known better than to trust this punched out brother of yours. He was all right hanging around for laughs. But this is business. I don't like goofoffs messing in our business.
Now just a minute, I
You want to know the trouble with you? You think it makes you a big man if you can give the answers.
Listen, Johnny
Go on beat it. Don't push your luck.
You want to know somethin'?
I said beat it! At the right time I'll catch up with you. Be thinkin' about it.
You want to know something? Take the heater away and you're nothin' take the good goods away, and the kickback and the shakedown cabbage away and the pistoleros away and you're a great big hunk of nothing Your guts is all in your wallet and your trigger finger!
Go on talkin'. You're talkin' yourself right into the river. Go on, go on... .
I'm glad what I done today, see? You give it to Joey, you give it to Nolan, you give it to Charley who was one of your own. You thought you was God Almighty instead of a cheap connivinggoodfornothing bum! So I'm glad what I done you hear me? glad what I done!
You ratted on us, Terry.
From where you stand, maybe. But I'm standing over here now. I was rattin' on myself all them years and didn't know it, helpin' punks like you against people like Pop and Nolan an'... .
Come on. I want you. You're mine. You're mine! Come on!
Hey, Skins get away with that sheet metal all right?
Easy, that new checker faked the receipt. Here it is, boss.
Stow the receipt. I'll take the cash.
Fortyfive bills.
Hey, Terry, front and center.
I I musta counted wrong, boss, I
Gimme.
Terry? What do you want?
Hey look
Yeah? Must be Dannyboy. I lost him in the last race.
He followed my birds into their coop. Here, you want him?
Well I got to watch myself these days. Know what I mean?
I'll bring him up to your loft.
I'll see you on the roof.
Is Johnny in?
No.
No?
Give me a double.
Take it easy now, Terry.
Keep the advice. Give me the whiskey.
What's wrong with your shoulder?
Hit me again.
Listen, kid, why don't you go home before Johnny... .
No advice. Just whiskey.
Easy. Easy, boy.
You ought to go home and take care of that
First things first.
I was gonna feed 'em, Terry.
's all right, kid. I took care of 'em myself this morning.
Boy, you must've been up early.
Yeah, yeah, I was awake anyway so I figured They got it made. Eat all they want fly around like crazy sleep side by side and raise gobs of squabs.
I wonder how long she's goin' to hang around, huh, Terry?
Be sure they got enough water.
She's a he. His name is Swifty.
My lead bird. He's always on that top perch.
Better.
Yeah, once they're mated they stay together all their lives until one of 'em dies.
Hey, Terry, guess who's here... that joker from the Commission... .
Looking for me?
He's got his nerve, gumshoeing around here after what you told him.
Jimmy, suppose I knew something, say a mug somebody put on somebody... . You think I should turn him in?
A cheeseeater! You're kidding!
Yeah, I'm kidding, I'm kidding. You don't think I should turn him in... .
You was a Golden Warrior.
Yeah us Golden Warriors. You're a good kid, Jimmy, a good tough kid. We stick together, huh, kid?
You was our first Supreme Commander, Terry. Keep out of sight and I'll tell him you're out.
But I ain't out. I'm in. I'm in. Who's lying to who?
You're doin' lovely, Terry, very lovely.
O.K., O.K., That's enough.
What's the matter wit' you, success gone to ya head?
I told you lay off.
My ain't we touchy this morning?
How do you like them jokers? Taking me for a pigeon.
Gimme the names, I'll write 'em down in me little book.
Didn't you recognize him, dopey. That's Old Man Doyle.
Doyle. Joey Doyle's... .? ... .You're his... .
Condolences. How you fixed for cabbage this mornin'?
Oh me and my chum are just rolling in the stuff. We only work down here for a hobby, J.P.
Some chance at ten percent a week! And if he don't borrow, he don't work.
You'll work.
I ought to belt you one, J.P.
Raise a hand to me and... .
... .and you'll tell Johnny Friendly.
You'd be off the pier for good.
You're Terry Malloy, aren't you?
What about it?
I thought I recognized you. Saw you fight in St. Nick's a couple of years ago.
O.K. O.K. Without the bird seed. What do you want?
Our identification.
Waterfront Crime Commission ? What's that?
We're getting ready to hold public hearings on waterfront crime and underworld infiltration of longshore unions.
I don't know nothing.
Never will be much too soon.
Take it easy.
You're being served with a subpoena, Mr. Malloy.
What?
Be at the State House, Courtroom Nine, at ten o'clock tomorrow.
I told you I don't know nothin' and I ain't saying nothin'.
You can bring a lawyer if you wish. And you're privileged under the Constitution to protect yourself against questions that might implicate you in any crimes.
You know what you're askin'? You're askin'
You looking for me?
Not exactly. Just thought I'd sit down and rest my dogs a minute. You know the next investigation we get into I hope it's got buildings with elevators in them. This one has been nothing but climbing stairs. And when we hit the top oor the folks are usually out.
I guess it's pretty tough work at that.
Well, it'll be worth it if we can tell the waterfront story the way the people have a right to hear it. Don't you think?
Didn't I see you fight in the Garden one night three or four years ago? With a fellow called Wilson?
Wilson yeah yeah I fought Wilson.
I thought you were going to take him that night but...
You want to know something I would have taken Wilson
I think you could have.
If I licked him I would have had the title shot instead of him boy, I was ready that night.
You sure looked it. Something go wrong?
Yeah. Johnny Friendly and my brother had other ideas.
Such as what?
Listen, this ain't for publication.
I'm just resting my feet.
Remember the first round how I had him against the ropes, and
I'll never forget it. I thought it was all over.
Yeah. My own blood and they sell me out for a lousy bet I had it in me to hit the top and Boy, if I wanted to, the things I could tell you about them guys
Yeah?
Well, I better get going. Hit those stairs again. Was that a looping right or an uppercut the first time you caught him?
Looping right! I never swung wild. I was strictly a short puncher hooks over 'n under whopwhop!
Really?
Yeah, really!
Where you going? I'll walk along with you.
Sure... .
Who asked him here?
Have a seat. I'm trying to find out just what happened to Joey Doyle. Maybe you can help.
Now listen, if you know who the pistols are, if you see them on the dock every day, are you going to keep still until they cut you down one by one? Are you? Are you? How about you, Nolan?
Father, one thing you got to understand. On the dock we've always been D 'n D.
D 'n D?
Deef 'n dumb. Somethin' c'n happen right in front of our noses and we don't see nothin'. You know what I mean. No matter how much we hate the torpedoes we don't rat.
You all right, Nolan?
Yeah, considerin' they was usin' my head for a baseball!
Nice fellows.
Those blood suckers. How I'd love to fix those babies but
But you still hold out for silence?
You still call it ratting?
Are you on the level, Father?
What do you think?
If I stick my neck out, and they chopped it off, would that be the end of it? Or are you ready to go all the way?
I'll go down the line, Kayo, believe me.
Baseball bats that's just for openers. They'll put the muscle on you, turnedaround collar or no turnedaround collar.
And I still say you stand up and I'll stand up with you.
Down to the wire?
So help me God!
Well, I had my fun, I've drunk my fill and I tickled some goodlookin' fillies I'm on borried time.
What's the matter? I've got something That's chokin' me. I've gotta get it out.
Someone else c'n take your confession.
But you're the one I want to tell what you said over Nolan about keepin' silent when you know the score I'm guilty you hear me? I'm guilty... .
I don't want to hear it in there.
I don't get it!
Tell it to me in there and my lips are sealed. But if I dig it out myself I can use it where it'll do the most good.
But you've got to listen to me.
I'll find you a priest.
It started as a favor for my brother you know they'd ask me things and it's hard to say no a favor Who am I kiddin'? They call it a favor but it's do it or else. And this time the favor turned out to be helping them knock off Joey. I just thought they'd lean on him a little but Last night with Edie I wanted to tell her only it stuck in my throat. I guess I was scared of drivin' her away and I love her, Father. She's the first thing I ever loved.
What are you going to do?
About Edie?
Edie. The Commission. Your subpoena. I know you got a subpoena.
It's like carrying a monkey around on your back.
A question of who rides who.
If I spill, my life won't be worth a nickel.
How much is your soul worth if you don't?
But it's my own brother they're askin' me to finger and Johnny Friendly. His mother and my mother was first cousins. When I was this high he took me to the ball games... .
Ball games! Don't break my heart! I wouldn't care if he gave you a life pass to the Polo Grounds. So you got a brother. Well, let me tell you something you got some other brothers and they're all getting the short end while your cousin Johnny gets mustard on his face at the Polo Grounds. If I was you Listen, I'm not asking you to do anything, Terry. It's your own conscience that's got to do the asking.
Conscience... . I didn't even know I had one until I met you and Edie... this conscience stuff can drive you nuts.
Good luck.
Is that all you've got to say to me, Father?
I want to see you, Terry.
You got eyes. I'm right in front of you.
Now don't give me a hard time.
What do you want from me, Father.
Your gun.
Mind your own business, Father.
This is my business.
Why don't you go and chase yourself?
Give me that gun.
You go to hell.
What did you say?
You go to
Take your hands off me. What you call me?
A bum. Look what you're doing. You want to be brave? Firing lead into another man's flesh isn't brave. Any bum who picks up a .45 in a pawn shop can be that brave. You want to hurt Johnny Friendly? You want to fix him for what he did to Charley and a dozen men who were better than Charley? Don't fight him like a hoodlum down here in the jungle. That's just what he wants. He'll hit you in the head and plead selfdefense. Fight him tomorrow in the courtroom with the truth as you know it Truth is the gun Drop that thing and tell the truth a more dangerous weapon than this little cap pistol.
...walk?
Johnny Friendly is layin' odds that you won't get up.
You can!
I can? Okay. Okay...
You're all packed. And here's your bus ticket. You're on your way back to St. Anne's.
Pop, I'm not ready to go back yet.
Edie, for years we pushed quarters into a cookie jar, to keep you up there with the Sisters, and to keep you from things like I just seen out the window. My own daughter arminarm with Terry Malloy. You know who Terry Malloy is?
Who is he, Pop?
Who is he! Edie, you're so softhearted and softheaded you wouldn't recognize the devil if he had you by the throat. You know who this Terry Malloy is? The kid brother of Charlie the Gent, Johnny Friendly's right hand, a butcher in a camel hair coat.
Are you trying to tell me Terry is too?
I'm not trying to tell you he's Little Lord Fauntleroy.
He tries to act tough, but there's a look in his eyes that... .
A look in his eyes! Hold your hats, brother, here we go again. You think he's one of those cases you're always draggin' in and feelin' sorry for. Like the litter of kittens you hadthe only one she wants to keep has six toes and it's cockeyed to boot. Look at him. The bum! And the crush you had on that little Abyssinian... .
He wasn't Abyssinian, Pop, Assyrian... .
Sixtoed cats. Assyrians. Abyssinians. It's the same difference. Well don't think this Terry Malloy is any sixtoed cockeyed Assyrian. He's a bum. Charley and Johnny Friendly owned him when he was a fighter and when they ring the bell he still goes into action.
He wanted to see me again.
You think we kept you out in Tarrytown just to have you go walkin' with a corner saloon hoodlum like Terry Malloy? Now get back to Tarrytown, before I put a strap to you.
And learn about charity and justice and all the other things people would rather talk about than practice? Pop goes up to her and holds out his two arms, his right one closer to Edie; he trembles with emotion.
See this arm? It's two inches longer 'n the other one. That's years of workin' and sweatin', liftin' and swingin' a hook. And every time I heisted a box or a coffee bag I says to myselfthis is for Edie, so she can be a teacher or somethin' decent. I promised your mother. You better not let her down.
Pop, don't think I'm not feeling grateful for all you've done to get me an education and shelter me from this. But now my eyes are open. I see things I know are so wrong how can I go back and keep my mind on things that are only in books and that people aren't living? I'm staying, Pop. And I'm going to keep on trying to find out who's guilty for Joey. I'd walk home with a dozen Terry Malloys if I thought they could help me. I tell you I'm staying, Pop. Pop starts to pull his belt out of his trousers.
You are like
Pop!
Where you goin'?
Let me by.
Oh, I thought you was gonna go to work with all them muscles.
Give it to me my Pop's job
What makes him so special?
None of your business.
Things 're lookin' up on the docks, huh, Jackie?
I think we're O.K.
Thanks. Steel pipes and baseball bats.
They play pretty rough.
Which side are you with?
I'm with Terry.
I'll get home all right now.
I better see you get there.
Everybody loved Joey. From the little kids to the old rummies. Did you know him very well?
Everybody knew him. He got around.
What did that man mean when he said you were... .?
Aah, he's a bottlebaby, he talks to himself, the joke of the neighborhood.
I better get home.
You know how the Sisters are.
You training to be a nun or something?
It's a regular college. It's just run by the nuns. The Sisters of St. Anne.
And you spend all your time just learning stuff, huh?
I want to be a teacher.
A teacher! Dong!!! You know I admire brains. Take my brother Charley. He's very brainy. Very.
It isn't brains. It's how you use them.
Yeah. Yeah. I get your thought. You know I seen you lots of times before. Parochial school on Pulaski Street? Seven, eight years ago? Your hair come down in
In braids? That's right.
Looked like two pieces of rope. And your teeth were
I know. I thought I'd never get those braces off.
Man, you were a mess!
I can get home all right from here
The thought I'm tryin' to get over is you grew up beauteeful. Remember me?
The moment I saw you.
Some people got faces that stick in your mind.
I remember you were in trouble all the time.
Now you got me! It's a wonder I wasn't punchy by the time I was twelve. The rulers those Sisters used to whack me with! They thought they could beat an education into meI foxed 'em.
Maybe they just didn't know how to handle you.
How would you've done it?
With a little more patience and kindness. That's what makes people mean and difficult. Nobody cares enough about them.
What's that?
Pardon me while I reach for my beads.
What?
Whatwhat? Where you been the last four five years? Outer space?
When Mother died Pop sent me out to school in the country. He was afraid with no one home I'd get into bad company.
Well he played it smart. Too many goodfornothin's around here. All they got on their mind's a little beer, a little pool, a little I better get you home.
Boy, they sure fly nice, don't they?
Do you like pigeons?
That's my own flock up there, getting their evening workout. I won plenty of races with 'em. Listen, you want to see them? Come up on the roof with me and I'll show 'em to you.
I'd better go in.
I only live up there and across the roof.
Thanks anyway.
Listen, Edie, am I going to see you again?
What for?
I don't know.
I really don't know.
I changed my mind. I feel real mean tonight.
Good. So do I.
The Golden Warriors.
I started them Golden Warriors. I was their first Supreme Commander.
Here they come! The champion flock of the neighborhood.
You don't mind yourself at all, do you. Joey used to race pigeons.
He had a few birds. I got up and fed 'em this morning.
That was nice of you.
I like pigeons. You send a bird five hundred miles away he won't stop for food or water until he's back in his own coop.
I wouldn't have thought you'd be so interested in pigeons.
I go for this stuff. You know this city's full of hawks? There must be twenty thousand of 'em. They perch on top of the big hotels and swoop down on the pigeons in the park.
The things that go on.
How do you like that one?
Oh she's a beauty.
If another fella tries to take that perch away from him, he lets him have it.
Even pigeons aren't peaceful.
One thing about them though, they're faithful. They get married just like people.
Listen, you like beer?
I don't know.
Want to go out and have one with me?
In a saloon?
Come on, I know a quiet one, with a special entrance for ladies... .
Likewise. And draw two for chasers. Now you're beginning to live.
I am?
Wham... .
How do you like it?
It's quite nice.
How about another one?
No thanks... .
Hit me again, Mac.
Were you really a prize fighter?
I went pretty good for a while, didn't I, Al? But I didn't stay in shape and I had to take a few dives.
A dive? You mean, into the water?
Naw, in the ring, a dive is
Now what are you doing?
Describing you. A square from out there. I mean you're nowhere. Miss Four Corners.
What made you want to be a fighter?
I had to scrap all my life. Figured I might as well get paid for it. When I was a kid my old man got killednever mind how. Charley and I was put in a placethey called it a Children's Home. Some home! I run away and peddled papers, fought in club smokers and But what am I runnin' off at the mouth for? What do you care?
Shouldn't we care about everybody?
What a fruitcake you are!
Isn't everybody part of everybody else?
Gee, thoughts! Alla time thoughts! You really believe that drool?
Terry!
Want to hear my philosophy? Do it to him before he does it to you.
Our Lord said just the opposite.
I'm not lookin' to get crucified. I'm lookin' to stay in one piece.
I never met such a person. Not a spark of romance or sentiment or or human kindness in your whole body.
What do they do for you, except get in your way?
And when things get in your way or people you just knock them aside get rid of Them is that your idea?
Listen get this straight don't look at me when you say them things. It wasn't my fault what happened to your brother. Fixing Joey wasn't my idea... .
Why, Terry, who said it was?
Well, nobody, I guess. But that Father Barry, I didn't like the way he kept lookin' at me.
He was looking at everybody the same way. Asking the same question.
Yeah, yeah... . This Father Barry, what's his racket?
His racket?
You've been off in daisyland, honey. Everybody's got a racket.
But a priest...?
You don't believe in anything, do you?
Edie, down here it's every man for himself. It's keepin' alive! It's standin' in with the right people so you can keep a little loose change jinglin' in your pocket.
And if you don't?
If you don't Keep your neck in and your nose clean and You'll never have no trouble down here.
But that's living like an animal
Like Joey? Are you afraid to mention his name?
Why keep harpin' on it? Come on, drink up. You got to get a little fun out of life. What's the matter with you? I'll play you some music.
I I'd like to, Edie, but there's nothin' I can do. Edie feels subdued, ashamed at breaking down. She rises, and in a low voice says
All right, all right.. I shouldn't 've asked you.
You haven't finished your beer.
I don't want it. But why don't you stay and finish your drink.
I got my whole life to drink.
You're not sore at me?
What for?
For not being any help?
What are you crying for?
I thought I felt mean tonight. But I'm not I'm just all mixed up... .
I I never knew a girl like you, Edie. I always knew the kind you just grab 'em And I never knew a girl like you, Edie.
It's fun dancing with your eyes closed. I'm floating. I'm floating... .
Edie, listen, stay out of this mess. Quit tryin' to ask things about Joey. It ain't safe for you.
Why worry about me? You're the one who says only look out for yourself.
Okay, get in hot water. But don't come hollerin' to me when you get burned.
Why should I come hollering to you at all?
Because... because... Listen Edie, don't get sore now but I think we're getting in love with each other.
I can't let myself fall in love with you.
That goes double for me.
What are you going to do?
I won't eat cheese for no cops, that's for sure.
It was Johnny Friendly who killed Joey, wasn't it?
Edie, your old man's right, go back to that school out in daisyland. You're driving yourself nuts you're driving me nuts stop worrying about the truth worry about yourself.
Look out for number one. Always number one. I should've known you wouldn't tell me. Pop said Johnny Friendly used to own you. I think he still owns you. No wonder everybody calls you a bum.
Don't say that, Edie, don't...
It's true.
I'm tryin' to keep you from being hurt What more do you want?
Much more, Terry. Much, much more!
Edie!
I I brought this for you, Terry. It was Joey's. Yours is coming out at the elbows.
I don't rate it.
Go ahead, wear it.
Pigeons... .
There's a hawk around. They're scared tonight.
Edie I I never said this to a girl before, I never knew a girl worth trying to say it for, but you you're... .
I know... I know... .
Edie... Edie... ..
Terry, what's wrong?
I've been sittin' in the church.
You?
Yeah, yeah, it's up to me, it's up to me he says it's up to me.
Who says?
The Father. The Father.
Terry what's happening to you?
I just told the Father.
Told him what?
What I did to Joey.
You... .
What I did to Joey.
Don't tell me don't tell me!
Edie it's
I had to, Edie. I had to see you.
Lucky Pop isn't home, he'd kill you.
You think I stink, don't you? You think I stink for what I told you?
I don't want to talk about it. I want you to go.
Edie, listen to me! I want you to believe me. I want to be with you.
How can you be with Charley and Johnny Friendly and still be with me? Either way it's a lie. It's like there were two different people inside of you. You've got to be one or the other.
I don't want to hurt Charley I don't want to hurt you...
It's you who's being hurt. By keeping it inside you, like a poison. Sooner or later it's got to come out.
I know what you want me to do!
I don't want you to do anything. Let your conscience tell you what to do.
That word again! Why do you keep saying conscience, conscience... .
I never mentioned the word before. In his agony he grips a glass standing on the night table.
I keep hearing it and I don't know what to do..I don't know what to do... .
My hand.
It's just a scratch. You won't die. She turns away from him.
Edie...
Get away from me.
Edie, I need you to love me. Tell me you love me.
I didn't say I didn't love you. I said stay away from me.
Edie, Edie, I...
Terry, I'm frightened. More and more frightened.
I'm looking for Charley. I heard Charley was waiting for me. Charley?
Charley.
I mean it, let's get away from here, first Joey then Nolan, now Charley and any minute... . ...I'm frightened I'm frightened.
I'll take it out of their skulls.
I don't want to see you killed. I want to live with you. Live with you. Any place it's safe to walk the streets without... .
I'll take it out of their skulls.
Terry, no, no... .
Don't hang on to me. And don't follow me. Don't follow me. Call the Father. Ask him to take care of Charley for me. My brother. There's something I got to do.
Terry, you're bleeding.
Do what I told you. Take care of Charley.
Terry, for God's sake.
Get out of my way.
No, I can't let you. I can't, you're
Edie.
I thought you might want some hot coffee.
Thanks just the same.
Well, it's over.
But I feel like My friends won't talk to me.
Are you sure they're your friends?
Jimmy...
He's going to have to grow up too.
My pigeons... .
Terry, you better stay in for a while. I'll come and cook your meals. Be sure you keep the door locked.
Every one of 'em... .
You heard what Johnny said. No part of the Waterfront'll be safe for you now. Maybe inland the Middle West somewhere a job on a farm... .
Farm...
Then go ahead go ahead! Go down to the shapeup and get yourself killed, you stupid, pigheaded, son of a What are you trying to prove? With a decisive gesture Terry takes the hook and sticks it through his belt. Then he goes to the wall and lifts Joey's windbreaker from the nail on which it has been hanging. He puts the windbreaker on in a deliberate way, and grins at her as he does so; then he walks to the door with a sense of dignity he has never had before.
You always said I was a bum. Well not anymore. I'm going down to the dock. Don't worry, I'm not going to shoot anybody. I'm just going to get my rights. Joey's jacket. It's time I start wearing it.
Am I on my feet...?
Terry...?
Time and faith... . My brother's dead and you stand there talking drivel about time and faith.
Why Edie, I
How could anyone do this to Joey. The best in the neighborhood... . everybody said it, not only me. Who'd want to harm Joey? Tell me who?  who?
I wish I knew, Edie, But
Don't turn away! Look at it! You're in this too don't you see, don't you see? You're in this too, Father.
Edie, I do what I can. I'm in the church when you need me.
"In the church when you need me." Was there ever a saint who hid in the Church?
Father Barry.
Hello, Edie.
I'm afraid I spoke out of turn last night.
You think I'm just a gravytrain rider in a turnedaround collar?
What happened? What happened?
Tommy, what happened?
Terry...?
Terry... Terry... .
They're waiting for him to walk in.
You hear that, Terry? Terry, did you hear that? You lost the battle but you have a chance to win the war. All you gotta do is walk.
You said they was only going to talk to him.
That was the idea.
I thought they'd talk to him. Try to get him to dummy up.
Maybe he gave them an argument.
I figured the worst they'd do is work him over a little.
He probably gave 'em an argument.
Come on, kid. I'll buy you a drink.
In a minute.
Working hard?
It's a living.
You don't mind working once in a while to justify this lofty position?
I just fnished work. I counted the bags.
We got a little extra detail for you. The local priest and this Doyle girl are getting up a meeting in the church. We'd like a rundown on it. You know, names and numbers of all the players. You're nominated.
Why me, Charley? I'd feel funny going in there.
Johnny does you favors, kid. You got to do a little one for him once in a while.
But going in that church, I'd be stooling for you, Charley. You make a pigeon out of me.
Let me explain you something, kid. Stooling is when you rat on your friends, on the guys you're with. When Johnny needs a favor, don't try to figure it out, just do it. Now go ahead, join the congregation.
The complete works of Timothy J. Nolan.
Nolan? I knew he had guts but
Gee, Charley, I'm sure glad you stopped by for me. I needed to talk to you. What's it they say about blood, it's
Thicker than water.
River Street? I thought we was going to the Garden.
I've got to cover a bet there on the way over. Anyway, it gives us a chance to talk.
Nothing ever stops you from talking, Charley.
The grapevine says you picked up a subpoena.
That's right... .
Of course, the boys know you too well to mark you down for a cheeseeater.
Mmhmm.
You know, the boys are getting rather interested in your future.
Mmhmmm.
They feel you've been sort of left out of things, Terry. They think it's time you had a few little things going for you on the docks.
A steady job and a few bucks extra, that's all I wanted.
Sure, that's all right when you're a kid, but you'll be pushing thirty pretty soon, slugger. It's time you got some ambition.
I always figured I'd live longer without it.
Maybe.
There's a slot for a boss loader on the new pier we're opening up.
Boss loader!
Ten cents a hundred pounds on everything that moves in and out. And you don't have to lift a finger. It'll be threefour hundred a week just for openers.
And for all that dough I don't do nothin'?
Absolutely nothing. You do nothing and you say nothing. You understand, don't you, kid?
Yeah yeah I guess I do but there's a lot more to this whole thing than I thought, Charley.
You don't mean you're thinking of testifying against
I don't know I don't know! I tell you I ain't made up my mind yet. That's what I wanted to talk to you about.
Listen, Terry, these piers we handle through the locals you know what they're worth to us?
I know. I know.
Well, then, you know Cousin Johnny isn't going to jeopardize a setup like that for one rubberlipped
Don't say that!
extanker who's walking on his heels ?
Don't say that!
What the hell!!!
I could have been better!
The point is there isn't much time, kid.
I tell you, Charley, I haven't made up my mind!
Make up your mind, kid, I beg you, before we get to four thirtyseven River... .
Four thirtyseven that isn't where Gerry G...?
Take the boss loading, kid. For God's sake. I don't want to hurt you.
Charley... . Charley... . Wow... .
I wish I didn't have to do this, Terry.
Wow... .
What do you weigh these days, slugger?
...eightseven, eightyeight. What's it to you?
Gee, when you tipped one seventyfive you were beautiful. You should've been another Billy Conn. That skunk I got to manage you brought you along too fast.
It wasn't him! It was you, Charley. You and Johnny. Like the night the two of youse come in the dressing room and says, "Kid, this ain't your night we're going for the price on Wilson." It ain't my night. I'd of taken Wilson apart that night! I was ready remember the early rounds throwing them combinations. So what happens This bum Wilson he gets the title shot outdoors in the ballpark! and what do I get a couple of bucks and a oneway ticket to Palookaville. It was you, Charley. You was my brother. You should of looked out for me. Instead of making me take them dives for the shortend money.
I always had a bet down for you. You saw some money.
See! You don't understand!
I tried to keep you in good with Johnny.
You don't understand! I could've been a contender. I could've had class and been somebody. Real class. Instead of a bum, let's face it, which is what I am. It was you, Charley.
It was you, Charley... .
Okay I'll tell him I couldn't bring you in. Ten to one they won't believe it, but go ahead, blow. Jump out, quick, and keep going... and God help you from here on in.
What gives with our boy tonight, Charley? He ain't himself.
The Joey Doyle thing. You know how he is. Things like that he exaggerates them. Too much Marquis of Queensbury. It softens 'em up.
Listen kid, I'm a soft tough too. Ask any rummy on the dock if I'm not good for a fin any time they put the arm on me. But my old lady raised us ten kids on a stinkin' watchman's pension. When I was sixteen I had to beg for work in the hold. I didn't work my way up out of there for nuthin'.
When he got up and chased them they thought it was a dead man coming after them.
I know what's eatin' you, kid. But I got two thousand duespayin' members in my local that's seventytwo thousand a year legitimate and when each one of 'em puts in a couple of bucks a day to make sure they work steady well, you figure it out. And that's just for openers. We got the fattest piers in the fattest harbor in the world. Everything that moves in and out we take our cut.
Why shouldn't we? If we c'n get it we're entitled to it.
We ain't robbin' pennies from beggars. We cuttin' ourselves in for fivesix million a year just on our half a dozen piers a drop in the bucket compared to the traffic in the harbor. But a mighty sweet little drop, eh, Charley?
It'll do.
So look, kid, you don't think we c'n afford to be boxed out of a deal like this a deal I sweated and bled for on account of one lousy little cheeseeater, that Doyle bum, who thought he c'd go squealin' to the Crime Commission? Do you?
I make it twentysix twentythree. You're fifty short, Skins.
Gimme.
You got a real friend here, kid. Don't forget it.
Why should he forget it?
Drink up, Charley. We're ahead of you.
I'm not thirsty.
After what we been hearing about your brother, I thought your throat'd be kind of dry.
So they're walking along and smiling. That doesn't mean he's going to talk. There's no evidence until he gives public testimony.
Thanks for the legal advice, Charley. That's what we always kept you around for. Now how do we keep him from giving this testimony? Isn't that the er as you put it main order of business?
He was always a good kid. You know that.
This girl and the Father got their hooks in him so deep he doesn't know which end is up anymore.
I ain't interested in his mental condition. All I want to know is, is he D 'n D or is he a canary?
I wish I knew.
So do I, Charley. For your sake.
What do you want me to do, Johnny?
Very simple. Just bring him to... that place we been using. Mac, you take care of the details. Call Gerry G. in if you think you need him.
Gerry G!! You don't want to do that, Johnny! Sure the boy's outa line, but he's just a confused kid.
Confused kid? First he crosses me in public and gets away with it and then the next joker, and pretty soon I'm just another fellow down here.
Johnny, I can't do that. I can't do that, Johnny.
Then don't.
But my own kid bro
This is for you to figure out. You can have it your way or you can have it his way. But you can't have it both ways. Am I right, Sonny?
You mean to sit there and tell me that your local takes in sixtyfive thousand, five hundred dollars every year and keeps no financial records?
Sure we keep records!
Well, where are they?
We was robbed last night and we can't find no books.
Doesn't it seem odd to you that five different waterfront locals were broken into last night and the only articles removed were financial records?
What do you mean, odd? We was robbed like I told you.
That's all. Next witness!
And don't be walking off with any of that. You know how the boss feels about individual pilferage.
Talk louder. I can't hear you.
If you kept your ears wide open instead of your mouth
If I talk too loud it's the fault of the nuns.
And what in blazes have the nuns got to do with it?
When I was a mere spit of a lad on Ferry Street in Dublin the nuns used to say to me, "Nolan, don't be swallowin' ye words like fishballs. When you got something to say Talk with your mouth wide open," so if I'm loud don't blame me it's the fault of the nuns!
Right now?
He just got a call from "Mr. Upstairs." Something's gone wrong. He's plenty hot.
I'm gonna take her home first.
I'd get over there, Terry. I'll take the little lady home.
I'll come over when I'm ready.
You know Johnny when he gets mad.
I have to talk to her.
She's not here.
Where is she?
She went out to check into skywriting. I can't believe you lied. Is this a genetic thing, men will say anything just to get laid?
No! That's not fair. That's not it at all. Look, something somewhere got screwed up. Maybe some metaphysical wires got crossed. I may not have the right name, but I was there. I'm the guy. I'm skywriting??
It was an emergency. I only lied that night because it was the only way I knew to stop her. I knew if I didn't, I'd never see her again.
Good strategy.
Do you know I wasn't even supposed to be in Rome? My boss was supposed to come to this conference, and at the last minute he got the measles. The measles. Who gets the measles at fortythree? So they sent me. And I wasn't supposed to be in that piazza that night either. I'd gone to the movies, only it was sold out. So I was wandering around. Just wandering... When I got hit in the head with this shoe.
And then I saw her. And all I know is, when I looked in her eyes I saw something... light. And life and passion and yearning. And something else I can't even put my finger on, something I'd never seen before
Mania.
Whatever. And I thought, please God, give me a sign, give me some way to keep this woman from getting into that taxi and disappearing from my life forever. And He did. She told me the name. Granted, it wasn't my name, but it was a start.
And if that's not destiny, I don't know what is.
That's really romantic.
I mean, realistically, what are the odds that this is a terrific guy?
Ten billion to one.
That's the guy you've been waiting for all these years?
Aren't you gonna go introduce yourself?
Oh, it's you. It's only Peter.
Thanks.
Sorry...
Kate, you're still there? I thought you'd be on your way home by now.
You miss me?...
Uh, yeah. Sure. Honey, did you forget the guys are coming over tonight?
No, why?
Well, there's nothing here to eat.
This is the last one before the wedding, right?
Right.
And we didn't have to bring another present?
No.
Not only is it tacky, it's exploitation.
It's not exploitation. These people wanna sell and I wanna buy. How are golf clubs exploitation? She takes one night class and suddenly she's a socialist.
Sociologist. And because. Pawn shops are just like prostitutes, farm auctions and coal miners. They're all for sale, but none of 'em would be if they weren't desperate for the money.
We're all desperate for the money, doll. That's what made this country great. Back me up on this Candy, am I right?
Don't call me doll, Larry. I hate it when you call me doll.
You used to love it when I called you doll.
You said it differently then.
Damon Bradley? That's why you're here?
What? You know him?
It was just a joke. I was pushing the arrow. I wanted to get to the next question. I wanted to find out who was gonna win the Series.
Are you saying you just made the whole thing up? The guy never even existed?
He existed. He was some kid I knew from Little League. He was a real jerk. You say he's a friend of Dwayne's?
Went to high school with him. But...
I thought she'd get a kick out of it.
It was a harmless little prank. Who in the world would've thought she'd spend her life waiting for this guy?
Larry, you've got to tell her.
I can't tell her. She's called off her wedding. She'll never speak to me again.
I came after the woman I love.
He missed me.
Yeah
Faith. Larry has something he wants to tell you about Damon Bradley.
She what?!
She said she knew where to find him, and then she grabbed my car keys, and
And you didn't tell her?
She didn't give me a chance.
And you are?...
Kate.
You are looking for a place to stay, no, Kate?
No. Well, I don't know. Well, maybe. Later.
This is your most lucky day. My family runs a pension not three blocks from here.
My friend is looking for her brother and she thinks this woman knows where he is. Can you tell us what she's saying?
She's saying he's a a porco.
A porco?
A pig! A pig! She's saying he's a pig.
Oh.
Giovanni, this is Faith's friend, Peter.
Oh, hello. I just came by to see if you wanted to join me for a drink, but
I'd love to.
It's siesta.
Oh.
You see, in America they care for work, they live to work. But in Italy, they care for food, for love, for pleasure...
How old are you?
What do the years matter? I've known you for centuries...
Giovanni, I want to thank you.
I thank you.
No, you don't understand. It's been wonderful meeting you. But... I have a husband. I have two kids at camp. I have a life I have to go back to.
You don't have to go if you don't want to...
But I do want to.
You think I'm just one of those Italian Casanovas. The guys who try to seduce every woman who comes their way. Who prey on unhappily married women. Who lure unsuspecting
Giovanni.
Huh?
That's exactly what you are.
I don't know, I guess I never really thought about it... Is Larry here?
Yeah. He's around somewhere.
I don't believe in statistics.
You're an accountant for cryin' out loud.
What about that guy you work with, Mike what'shisname?
No. He smokes.
How about the other one? His friend.
Just moved in with his girlfriend.
How about that guy at the bank?
Scientologist.
Oh.
So, you gotta be a little flexible. Look at your brother and me. Larry's not perfect, neither am I. But we work it out. We're not unrealistic in our expectations, and we have each other. I think you've got the Door Number Three Syndrome.
Don't tell me, Oprah did a show
I don't have an Amana freezer.
It's a metaphor. It's women who always think there's some unknown out there that's going to be better than what's in front of them. And instead wind up with nothing.
Metaphorically, I still don't have an Amana freezer.
I think if you're honest with yourself, you'll admit you've had a chance at a number of Amana appliances in your lifetime.
Is everything okay?
Yes. You know all the shrinks on Donahue say that all those love songs about some enchanted evening are just a cruel hoax that feeds people's fantasies.
But somebody wrote those songs.
So, what's your point?
Just that they came out of somebody's experience is all.
No, Faith. They came out of somebody's imagination.
I wish you didn't have to go so early.
Yeah, well, Larry and his friends are hungry. And I did say I'd try to pick something up.
No.
Is he married?
No.
Is he gay?
I don't know. I don't think so.
So?...
So, he's not my type. Let me walk you to the elevator.
What's he do?
I don't know, Kate.
You don't have any idea?
He's a podiatrist or something.
"Thrills"? That's what you're waiting for? You know how long that lasts? Besides, how do you know? Have you ever been out with him?
No. He's never asked me.
Why don't you ask him?
Why should I ask someone out who I don't want to go out with in the first place?
If you've never been out with him, how do you know you don't want to go out with him?
He begged me to marry him. I didn't even want to marry him.
Yes you did.
Well, I wouldn't've if I hadn't thought I was in love.
Come on, it's not so bad.
Look how big it makes me look. I look like an Alp.
I think it was sweet of him to pick it out.
I know... It was.
But what?
Oh, I don't know. I guess it's just not quite the way I always thought it was going to be. You know, like in the movies.
That's the problem. When you're a kid you think life is gonna be like the movies. Dreams come true, the good guys win, people live happily ever after... all that crap. Turn.
But one day you wake up and realize you've been had. Of course life isn't like the movies. That's why there are movies.
Yeah. I guess you're right. I really like the wallpaper we picked out for the den.
Let me tell you something about love. There are no prince charmings, there are no glass slippers. Love is hard work.
I know. You're right.
People have problems, insecurities, flaws and you have to learn to compromise, to overlook, to forgive. It's not settling, Faith, it's life. Real life.
I understand, Kate. What do you think of this garter?
I mean, just how long are you going to cling to this childish illusion that it's all supposed to be perfect? Well, guess what?... It isn't. Not for you, not for anybody.
Kate, is something the matter?
Larry brought me flowers last night.
Is that bad?...
I think he's having an affair.
Have you seen him with someone?
No... I can just tell.
After all, he is my brother, and I know he can be kind of a jerk sometimes, but I know him pretty well, and I really don't think
It's a miracle.
It's a coincidence.
The woman at my dry cleaners believes there's no such thing as coincidence.
It was my New Year's resolution to overcome it.
But it's July.
It's still the new year...
What about your job?
I have vacation time coming to me.
You don't have a passport.
That's where you're wrong. I got one nine years ago. I just never had an opportunity to use it.
Because you were afraid to fly.
Would you stop saying that? I need you to do me a really big favor.
Does Dwayne know about this?
Of course not. I told him I was going to visit a great aunt. And don't tell Larry, either.
I can't believe we did this. Do I have to remind you that your wedding is in six days?
Look, I know you think this is irresponsible of me, but think how much more irresponsible it would be to marry the wrong person.
No, I haven't. And you forgot about the fortune teller.
My God, you have...
Thank you so much.
You're just going to fly to Italy and start combing the streets?
He was on his way to Venice, right? I called the tourist bureau and I must've called every hotel in the city, but I found where he's staying.
A foreign land full of millions of Italian men... speaking Italian with Italian accents and those huge brown eyes and that silky olive skin...
How hard can it be? I'll land there, I'll go to his hotel, I'll introduce myself, and
Live happily ever after.
Maybe.
I keep it in the glove compartment in case of emergencies.
You're coming with me?
You okay?
Sure. I'm fine. I don't know why I never did this before. I mean, what's the big deal?
Now what do we do?
The book said they have boats that are like taxis... Vaporettos. What's the name of the place we're staying again?
It's called... the Gritty Palace.
"Gritty"? Is this gonna be one of those youth hostel dives jammed with backpackers who don't believe in deodorant?
I don't know... Maybe. Think of it as an adventure.
This is a Lifestyles hotel.
What?
"Of the Rich and Famous". Of which we are neither. Are you out of your mind? We can't afford this.
Are you sure?
Yes. Cathy Lee Crosby stayed here.
Well, we're here. And more importantly, he's here. We'll cut back on everything else.
I can't believe we came all this way and he's gone.
You gave it your best shot. You tried.
We lost him?...
I'll never meet the man of my dreams.
You and the other 99% of the women in the world.
Just once more, so you'll be sure to know what to look for.
Faith, I've seen it already, okay? If I spot somebody who's got a head that's an eighth of an inch around, standing underneath a tuba, I'll recognize him from the photo. Otherwise, I'm telling you, it's not gonna do me any good.
What are you doing?
He fell out.
You can't really blame him for being upset. It was an Armani suit.
Did I or did I not offer to have it cleaned?
I don't think he understood what you were saying. What's the airport number?
I just got a dial tone
The guy at the desk said he only left about a half hour ago, right?
So?
So, maybe his room hasn't been cleaned yet. Maybe there's something in there that might help us. Maybe they'll let us go in and take a look around.
Ah ha!...
What'd you find?
A Butterfinger wrapper.
A rich, possibly fat, slob.
Maybe there's fingerprints on it?
We're not looking to arrest the man, Faith, we're trying to locate him.
Oh. Right.
We're saved!
What is it?
A phone message. Only
Only what?
Only, it's in Italian...
Your brother?
What was I gonna do? Tell him the truth?
Couldn't we just have taken a train?
The book said they have a lot of rail strikes in Italy.
I told you a liter was less than a gallon.
We would've had enough gas to get us there if you hadn't gotten us lost. Besides, a kilometer is less than a mile.
Right. So we should've been able to cover more of them.
I'm hungry.
You know, no offense or anything Kate, but I think I'm starting to see Larry's side of the story.
What's that supposed to mean?...
Nothing.
You expecting somebody you know?
Well, you don't have to get snippy with me.
Sorry.
So, what exactly is Larry's side of the story, anyway?
I don't know, Kate. I just said that. I'm sorry. I'm just on edge. I'm afraid we're losing him.
You think he misses me at all?
'Course he does.
You know, when Larry and I got married, I thought we were so lucky we found each other so early. People talk about spending their lives together, how many of them really get to? But maybe I was wrong. Maybe sooner or later everything wears out.
That was a long time ago.
And you know what I thought then, Kate? I thought, I hope someday I have somebody who loves me that much. I still hope that.
He went out and bought himself men's cologne the other day. Did I tell you that?
Larry bought himself cologne?
Polo.
Anna, I'm Faith. You don't know how happy I am to meet you. You see, I'm trying to find someone, and
Her brother.
Right. My brother.
What did you say to her?
I don't know. I just asked her if she knew him and all of the sudden
What's she saying?
All of the sudden, I'm feeling kind of nervous. God, I hate blind dates. Why couldn't we just have arranged marriages in America?
You're right. At least that way you could spend the rest of your life blaming your parents instead of yourself. Smile.
I sort of wanted to wait to see if maybe he'd notice me first?
You've travelled over six thousand miles and now you're gonna play hard to get?
So what's in a name? I wanna join him. I don't see why we can't join him.
I told you. If he sees me here with another guy, he's gonna think I'm here with another guy. I just don't want to send any confusing signals.
Well, how come we're always looking for guys for you?
Because I'm the one who's single.
I never even got to be single.
Sure you did.
Not if you don't count the sixth grade.
Okay, okay. You join him. But first will you ask if he's here?
He's heeeeeerrre...
Oh my God. Where?
He's sitting in the fourth booth down, on the left hand side, with his back to us. He's wearing a navy jacket. If you turn around, you can see part of his right elbow.
Is he looking at us?
Nope.
Right, right... Okay.. You don't think he's gonna think I'm too aggressive?
Faith. So far you've trailed the man halfway around the globe. At this point, I don't think another fifteen feet is gonna tip the scales.
Right. Okay... It's meant to be right? This is it.
Faith
What?
Good luck.
Well, nobody can say we didn't try.
Okay, here's what I think. We find out what all the subway stops for that train are the subway system's really not that big in Rome, we could narrow it down and
And then what, Faith?
And then... we rent a truck, or a car, either one, and we set up a loudspeaker, and we drive through the surrounding areas, and we page him.
That was really sweet...
I meant about my idea.
I think it's time we got some professional help.
Like a detective.
No... Like a psychiatrist.
Don't be silly. How's a psychiatrist gonna find him?
Yeah. Sociopaths. They're able to figure out what you want them to be and then they act like that.
But how could he know? He only just met me.
Men have ways.
Hiiii...
Hi. Where've you been?
Sightseeing... What're you doing?
Packing.
Why?
Because I've been kidding myself. Because I realized you were right from the beginning. This whole thing was just a wild goose chase.
So, you've had a little bad luck.
A little bad luck?
Okay, a lot of bad luck. But that means the odds are probably in your favor now. This is no time to give up.
Why do they read kids fairy tales in the first place? Children are very impressionable, you know.
So you're just quitting? Just like that?
I thought you were the one who didn't think I should've come in the first place.
I know, but...
It was a ouija board, remember?
...and a fortune teller.
Yeah, well, obviously it wasn't meant to be. I've got fortyeight hours. I can still make it home in time to marry Dwayne and try to forget any of this ever happened.
What about Peter?...
Peter? Peter was a mistake. An imposter.
The last dead end in a long series of dead ends that I am relieved to finally be leaving behind. May as well start packing, our cab's gonna be here in an hour.
Who said I was going?
What?
I'm just not ready to go home quite yet, that's all.
No. No, you go ahead.
You sure you'll be okay?
I'm sure. And Kate, thank you for coming. Thank you for being such a good friend.
I'll be back before you leave.
Peter found him?
Yes. Isn't that amazing?
Amazing...
He's down in someplace called Positano. Peter says we can make it there by morning.
Joan Collins stayed here.
Is Damon Bradley here?
Whatareyoudoing?!
What if he doesn't like me?
It means you're a completely worthless excuse for a human being, and the fates have all conspired to make you miserable.
My God... you're right.
Faith, I'm kidding. Is this how you plan to get what you want from life? When you finally find it, you turn and run away from it?
Kate. Thank God you're there. I need help.
Uh huh... Okay, we'll be there. How is he, anyway?
Not only is he a momma's boy and a fascist, he says "nuculear" and "irregardless".
No one's perfect, Kate.
And he is living proof.
No, I think maybe you've been right. I think I may have been too critical in the past.
Maybe I can change him.
I thought this was supposed to be the one guy in the world you wouldn't need to change.
Maybe if I kiss him I'll feel it.
Or maybe it'll turn him back into a toad.
He's a jerk.
Yes. He is.
I spent my whole life waiting for a creep.
Yup.
I came all the way to Italy in search of a weasel.
When you could've found one in America.
So...
So. I guess I've got a wedding to go to.
Kate is that you?
Uh huh.
I didn't expect you back so soon.
Well, I realized, if you're getting married, you're gonna be needing the maid of honor, right?
Actually, no. There's not going to be a wedding.
Oh.
Well... I ought to be getting home anyway. The kids'll be back from camp soon. The house is probably a mess.
And Larry?...
What about Larry?
I don't know. I've just been thinking... maybe this destiny thing is more of a doityourself operation. Maybe the things that are meant to be are the things we want badly enough to fight for.
I'm fine. Have you seen Peter?
He's gone. He told me what happened. He just left for the airport.
Larry, did you rent a car?
You're Damon Bradley?
Uh huh.
Hello.
Beautiful place...
Sure is.
Been here long?
Just since yesterday.
I just got here, too. Not yesterday. But, just now. Today. Just a few minutes ago. Yeah, we just got here... I mean, I just got here. I'm single.
I was wondering... Do you have dinner plans?
Tonight?
Any night.
Well, not exactly...
Would you be willing to have dinner with me?
Sure.
You would? Really?
I'll look forward to it.
Okay. Good. See you then, then.
Wait.
Yes?
Aren't you going to tell me who you are?
Oh, Faith. My name's Faith.
It's a pleasure to meet you, Faith.
Sure.
Brunello di Montalcino, '85, please.
You know, I noticed you out at the pool even before we spoke. I could sense the chemistry between us.
Really?
Really...
Well, to new friends.
And more...
Excuse me?
Nothing. Prices are a little steep here, aren't they?
Don't worry about it. You're my guest.
What looks good?
Hmmmm... Well, the scampi sounds good...
You like shrimp? I like shrimp.
So what do you think?
Uh, the scampi sounds good to me, too.
Faith, this is my mother.
Oh, hello.
Mommy, this is Faith.
So, you say you've been to Italy before?
A few times. It's kind of an annual tradi
So, what are we waiting for?
What?
Let's face it. You want me.
That's not the point.
You said whatever it was you would understand.
That was before I found out what it was.
How could you do this to me?
I'm in love with you.
Oh, come on... What kind of an excuse is that?
You're limping.
I know I'm limping. I stubbed my toe.
Are you okay? You want some help?
NO.
You are leaving, aren't you?
Why can't you just tell me?
If it's any of your business, yes.
Yes?! To be married, I suppose.
Yes.
To the foot doctor.
Yes.
Because I know who Dwayne is, and he's reliable and stable and wants to marry me.
He's safe.
So?! Is there something wrong with loving somebody who's safe?
Does he love you?
He wants to marry me, doesn't he?
You didn't answer my question.
Why are you asking me this?
Because I'd like to think at least one of you feels that way. Does he know who you are?
You stubbed your toe, don't you think that's a sign?
What?
He's a podiatrist. Pain is your body's way of telling you something is wrong. Your toe is trying to tell you not to do it.
There must be something I can do, something I can say to make this up to you?... Just tell me what it is, I'll say it. I'll do it. I don't want you to hate me.
Look, Peter, I don't hate you. But what we had was an illusion. Mutual wishful thinking. We both wanted to believe it for awhile, but it was all founded on a lie.
So?
So it wasn't real.
What about the oasis in the desert? Are you telling me that was a lie?
No, that wasn't a lie. That was... a mirage.
Don't you see?.. We're not the ones who are meant to be. You're the man of somebody else's dreams.
Because I don't have the right name?!
Fine. Okay. Forget me. Leave me out of it. But don't go throwing your life away on somebody you don't love.
Who says I don't love him?...
Why not?
Because. I know where he is.
I went back to that restaurant and I spoke with his waiter, just on an off chance, you know, and, anyway he knew the name of the guy's hotel. So, I called there, they said he left yesterday. But, apparently he comes here every year, always follows the same route. He always goes from here down the coast to the Le Sirenuse hotel in Positano. I called. And they told me he's checked in.
Where's Positano?
It's in the south. I've still got my rental car. I can get you there by morning...
Oh no, I don't think that would be a good idea.
Look, I know there's no going back for us. That's not it. I just want to make this up to you. Clear my relationship karma. And I know the area, I've got some cousins down there. Please. Let me do this for you. Let this be my gift to you.
Why?
Because I want you to be happy.
The guy at the hotel told me he always wears a gold medallion, and usually has a book or magazine with him.
He likes to read... Did he mention anyone in particular?
Uh, I'd rather not say.
Tell me.
I'd really rather not say.
Please. I need to know.
Mickey Spillane.
Mickey Spillane?
Or Hustler.
He's out by the pool right now.
Right now?
Oh, and I forgot to tell you. He's here with his mother.
Do you want me to do it?
NO.
Hi, Peter.
Hi.
So. You found him.
You found him. I don't know how to thank you.
Well, it looks like we both lucked out. I just met somebody myself. Somebody my aunt introduced me to.
Oh. That's nice.
Yeah.
And she's a knockout, too.
Well, good. Good for you.
Anyway, that's why I came by. I need to fix this button. Do you have a needle and thread?
Where are you going? Just out of curiosity...
Just to that place down at the bottom of the stairs. Nothing fancy.
Oh, thanks. Well, have a good time.
You too.
Hey
What?
Nice dress.
Thank you, Peter. Thank you so much.
What?...
What are you doing here?
We were hungry.
You were saying...
Boy, that looks tasty. What is that?
Say, I saw where they had motor boats for rent down in the harbor. Why don't we all go for an evening cruise around the bay?
I don't know if that's such a
Why are you doing this?
I just wanted to keep an eye on you. The guy's a total stranger, remember?
So were you.
Exactly. Besides, no hard feelings. You found somebody. I found somebody. I thought we could double.
Well, what about books? You like Hemingway? You gotta love Hemingway.
The Sun Also Rises. For Whom the Bell Tolls. The Old Man and the
How about music? You like classical?
The Boston Pops. Season tickets.
Well, how about those old romantic movies with those great stars, huh? Like Audrey Hepburn.
Actually, I think I prefer Katherine Hepburn.
You okay?
Yeah.
I guess he turned out to be kind of a loser, huh?
I'm sorry.
I feel like the world's biggest idiot.
Yeah. Well, was the least I could do.
No, it was more than that. It was very generous of you. It was very kind.
Promise me you won't leave without saying goodbye.
No. Course not.
Hi.
Hi. Are you... busy?
No. Are you're leaving?
No. I just came by to apologize.
It seems like ever since I found out about this guy, this name, I've been kind of crazy. Like I was on drugs or something.
I know the feeling.
Yeah... Well, anyway, I also wanted to tell you, I'm not getting married.
You aren't?
No. I mean yes, I'm not. I decided to call it off. Well, actually, it was kind of mutual.
Well. Congratulations.
Thank you. So, since I have a few more days of vacation left, I was wondering if maybe you'd want to do something sometime. I mean, you know, if you don't have... other plans.
Are you asking me out?
Yes. I am.
In that case... no...
You can't come to Southern Italy and not see the Blue Grotto.
I just need to run up and get my bathing suit.
Okay. I'll meet you at the dock in ten minutes.
Is something the matter?
GET OUT!!
I'd call that a yes. Do I get a hint?
You want a hint? I'll give you a hint. You are the lowest, most despicable, most reprehensible form of reptilian swine
There's no such thing.
What?
Reptilian swine. There's no such thing. Reptiles aren't swine.
Who cares?! You hired an actor??
I don't know what you're talking about. Who told you that?
No one had to tell me. He's starring in the local play.
Alright. The truth is... I thought we had something here.
I can't believe you did that!
And I can't believe you are so stubborn and so blind as to let some stranger, some phantom you've never even met destroy it.
You're the reason I never met him. You knew it was the thing I most wanted in life and you sabotaged it.
I sabotaged it? You're the one who lost him, remember?
Well, I might've found him again if I hadn't left Rome to make this pointless trip down here with you.
As I recall, you were on your way home. And I didn't want you to go so, yes, I told you a little white lie.
A "little white lie"? A "little white lie"?
What would you call it?
I would call it unforgivable.
Don't you think you're overreacting just a little here? We're talking about love, okay? Let's be rational.
Rational?! Love is not rational! Are you crazy?
Yes. I'm crazy. You have driven me crazy. No one in their right mind would go to this much trouble to win over someone as insane as you. Did it ever, even for one second, occur to you how much work it was to set all this up? How many arrangements had to be made? How many players had to be coordinated?
Gee, I'm flattered. What an incredibly romantic gesture. Cancel the roses, I've decided to lie to her instead.
Very funny.
No, it isn't. I called off my wedding all because of you.
Really?...
Yes.
And this is the thanks I get. I did you a favor. You never wanted to marry that joker in the first place.
That's not the point. And what if I had wanted to?
If you had wanted to, you'd have gone home.
Look, I just thought if you finally got rid of this obsession with this name, if you could get it out of your system once and for all, then maybe you'd be able to stop waiting and open your heart to someone real. Granted, ideally, me. I didn't do it to hurt you. I did it for you. I did it for us...
There is no us.
I was hoping for the real thing.
I brought you that, too.
Hello? Is anybody there?
Dwayne Pinsley? I'm trying to reach Dwayne Pinsley.
He's not in at the moment. Can I take a message?
Who's this?
This is his fiancee. Who's this?
Oh, hi. I'm an old high school buddy of Dwayne's. I was in town this weekend, was hoping to stop by and surprise him. But I've gotta catch a plane so I'm afraid I'm not gonna be able to make it.
I'm sure he'll be sorry to hear that. Who should I tell him called?
My name's
I can hardly hear you. Could you spell that?
Damon Bradley...
Right. Thanks a lot. And congratulations. It's not easy finding love these days.
WAIT!! Where are you?
I'm at the airport. Why?
Uh in case Dwayne wants to try to reach you.
Well, he'd have to hurry. My flight leaves at four o'clock.
Where are you going?
I'm on my way to Venice. Why?
Venice? I love Venice. With the boats, right?...
Huh? Uh, yeah I've gotta run. Tell Dwayne hi. Maybe someday we can all get together.
You...
Hi there...
Before you start picking your nose, I know he put you up to it.
It was the moth stuff that gave it away, didn't it? I knew that was too much.
No, you gave a very convincing performance. And you'll be pleased to know that your eightbyten glossy is now on display at the local playhouse.
My picture's up?
Congratulations.
Thanks.
So, this is what you do? I mean when you're not playing other parts?
I take it things didn't work out between the two of you?
It's an amazing place, don't you think?
Amazing.
Smoking or nonsmoking?
Non. Please.
Lots of history. For example, did you know, according to legend, this coastline used to harbor Sirens?
Hm.
Beautiful women who could lure men to their destruction with their singing. Nobody's ever really seen them and lived to tell about it. But, I don't know. An awful lot of ships wrecked on those rocks.
I'M NOT PUSHING IT.
Wait. I have to write this down.
Yeah, but, what if this guy lived a billion, trillion years ago? Like, what if he was a cave man, and now he's dead?
Don't be stupid, Larry. If he's my destiny, then, obviously, he has to be alive.
Yeah, but, what if he doesn't live here? Like, what if he's a cannibal in New Guinea or something?
If I live here, then he lives here. Fate wouldn't make a mistake like that. And stop talking. You're gonna ruin the spell.
We'll KNOW.
Okaaaaayyyy.
Larry! What are you doing here? Mom sent you.
No.
Larry, can I borrow your car keys?
Faith, this guy you think is Mr. Right, he's... not what you think
Don't worry, it's a long story, but I know who he is. I know where to find him.
But, Faith
Please, Larry. I have to hurry.
I'll bring it back as soon as I can.
But Faith
What?...
A very large pig.
Ask her if she knows where he is?
Sa dov'e' lui?
No.
Ask her if she knows how I might reach him? If she has a telephone number?
Ha un numero di telefono?
...has a prior commitment.
What's mezzaluna?
A restaurant. In Piazza Navona.
That's it. That's it. That's all I need to know. Bless you, thank you, thank you.
You don't think this is just infatuation, do you?
Oh no. Do you?
No.
I'm a liberal!
No...
My car bumper has never held a winning sticker.
There is one other thing you should know about me.
Nothing you could say would change the way I feel.
I'm engaged. I'm supposed to be married in two days.
Except possibly that.
And, he's a friend of yours. It's Dwayne.
Dwayne?
Dwayne Pinsley. From high school. That's how I knew you were here. When you called, from the airport.
I don't get it. She hasn't seen her since she was a kid, now just because she's dying, all of the sudden she's gotta see her again?
She's been acting weird lately, though. I shoulda seen it coming. Babbling on and on and on about "communication". Like I don't know how to communicate.
Let's face it. Sooner or later we all die.
Exactly.
Who's dying?
Your great aunt.
What great aunt?
There's this poem by Rilke, I don't remember the whole thing, but it's about that. About waiting for that person, and wondering if you'll ever find them. And the last line of it goes, "Who knows? Perhaps the same bird echoed through both of us, yesterday
separate, in the evening..."
Yes.
My hair's kind of a mess, isn't it?
Your hair... is perfect.
But... just to be sure, maybe we ought to shatter each other's unrealistic images of perfection. You know, each of us admit something embarrassing about ourselves.
Okay. Good idea. You first.
What?...
I feel like I've been wandering in the desert for as long as I can remember. With nothing but emptiness around me, wind and sun... And suddenly, out of the blue, somehow I've found the oasis.
Oh, right. Dwayne. You're engaged to Dwayne?
It just happened. I didn't plan it. I was alone. And he was... there. But now everything's changed. I owe it to him to let him know. I need to tell him.
You're sure...
I've never been more sure of anything in my life.
Good.
Let's find a telephone.
Sure But, before you do that, since we're putting all our cards on the table, I have a confession to make, too.
Don't be afraid. You can tell me.
You're sure...
We found each other, didn't we?
Yes. We did.
It's alright... this is our destiny.
What?
My name isn't Damon Bradley. I just told you it was Damon Bradley.
What is it?
So, what's the story with your friend?
My friend has lost her fucking mind...
What's she doing?
She's trying to find out where she can rent a loudspeaker.
What for?
So she can drive through the streets of Rome paging the man of her dreams.
No, really. What's she doing?
Really. She thinks he's here. Even though she's never met him. Even though she's never laid eyes on him.
Seriously.
Were they pen pals?
No.
Is he some kind of celebrity or something?
No.
Did he do some anonymous good deed for her?
You ask what room he's in, okay?
Buona notte.
Excuse me?
Mr. Bradley left about a half hour ago. He said his plans had changed unexpectedly. Would you prefer an interior or exterior room?
He couldn't have checked out I was supposed to meet him here.
I'm very sorry. Perhaps you misunderstood?
Nobody here has any idea which way he went?
Once they pay the bill, we don't usually follow them.
No... it's just very important that I find him, okay?
Why?
Because.
He said he thinks a woman he works with knows him. Her name's Anna. But she won't be in 'til tomorrow.
So. How do we get to Rome?
May I see your boarding pass, please?
I I must've misplaced it.
I'm sorry, but without a boarding pass we can't let you on the plane.
Great. Because, like I said, until you find it, we can't let you on the plane.
You don't understand. The man I'm supposed to marry is on that plane.
Okay, ma'am, just a moment.
You didn't have that with you before. Prima non l'aveva con se.
It was late in arriving. But it's here now.
He is your husband, no?
Yes, but... He was having an affair.
Si.
She was your sister.
No, she wasn't my sister.
Your mother.
Of course not.
Your grandmother?
Look, she wasn't a relative, okay? I don't know who she is.
Whew! Hiya, boys!
Shhh... let's move it away from the window...
What happened?
What's that?
What?
That!
Oh, that. That ain't nothin' to be afraid of, ma'am. Just ol Chief Bromden. That's all...
Is he one of the loonies?
They're sleeping, Miss. They're sleeping. An' we gotta keep it down so we don't disturb their sleep.
Are they dangerous when they're awake?
Oh, no, Miss. Not these loonies. These are nice guys. Nice guys.
Smells like piss. Is this real, Candy? Is this really real? I mean we are in an insane asylum, an' I wanna know how we got ourselves into this scene.
Shhh, please, Miss. Keep it down...
Not exactly, Miss. Not exactly.
Yeah, well, I'll tell ya somethin'. I'll tell ya somethin'. I had this boyfriend, Chuck. Ya know him, Mac. Ya remember, Chuck.
Well, Miss... I would say... I would say, yes. Yes, he's crazy.
I thought so.
Is he in an asylum?
He's dead.
Oh, I see. He was a very sick man. Very sick.
That's what I told his mother. And she said I was crazy. Her son ate the whole fucking light bulb and she said I was crazy.
I don't know anything about that, Miss. I would have to examine you first...
You ol' fucker!
Well, I'm running a risk by letting you in, Miss. You know I'm runnin' a risk of gettin' my black ass fired. If you understand what I mean...
Now, Miss. What do you want with twenty zombies when you got a twenty gun salute looking you right in the face.
Oh, yeah...
You better believe it, you sweet little thing. You better believe it...
Don't you sweet talk me you ol' spook, you!
Oh, I'm all through talkin'. Now, let's just you an' me trip on down that hall.
Oh, there you are, Mister Turkle.
Evenin', ma'am.
Is everything all right?
Why, sure, ma'am...
The lights were flashing on and off, Mister Turkle.
Jus' cleanin' up, ma'am.
At this hour?
Cleanliness is a twentyfourhour job, ma'am...
What are these men doing up wandering around?
Ah guess the natives are restless, ma'am...
You've been drinking on the job again, haven't you, Mister Turkle!
Ah, no, ma'am... well, yes, ma'am... A man get awful lonely at night, if ya know what Ah mean, ma'am...
I want those men put back to bed, Mister Turkle!
Yes, ma'am...
And you haven't heard the last of this!
Yes, ma'am...
Stand aside, Sam, Nature's callin'.
Nobody leaves here till seven thirty.
Don't know if I can hold it that long, Sam.
Tha's your problem.
Who do you like in the opening game, Sam?
Huh?
Asshole.
Hey, Sam, bet ya two bucks ya lose.
Shit, man, tha' ain't even worth considerin'.
How 'bout twenty?
Now you talkin'.
Bet!
Bet you ass...
You're a witness, Doc!
What kind of crap is that???
Jus' playin' the game, sucker...
Ya fuckin' coon, you're not on the ward now!
Take you han's offa me!
We got your black ass now, Washington, wanna bet another twenty?
No way...
Hey, Billy, stop cryin'. You don't have to cry... You ain't got nothin' to be ashamed of. She ain't gonna tell you mother... stop crying...
Yes, Miss Ratched!
Yes, sir, it's a mighty nice fall day...
This way, Mister McMurphy.
Yes, ma'am...
Yes, sir, I sure am gonna enjoy my stay here.
I'm sure you will.
Ya know, I ain't never been in an institution of psychology before.
Oh...
Of course. Mister McMurphy.
After you, ma'am.
Thank you.
Make yourself at home, Mister McMurphy...
Thank you, ma'am,
Hi.
Hi.
That kind of behavior will get you a P.A. rating, my friend.
P.A. What the hell is that?
Potential assaultive.
Hit me!
Hit, you say? Well well well and with a king up, the boy wants a hit. Whadaya know. So comin' at you and too bad, a little lady for the lad and he's over the wall and down the road, up the hill and dropped his load.
Boogered!
Yeah!
Big man!
Yeah, how much you wanna bet?
On what?
That me an' my buddy, Cheswick, we'll be downtown tomorrow watchin' the ballgame while you suckers are sittin' around this goddamn nursery!
Maybe I'll just use that thick skull of yours as a batterin' ram, Sefelt.
Why, my head would just squash like an eggplant, McMurphy.
Yes, I see it! I see it!
Yahoo, let's'play ball!
There they are!
Hey, Martini! Psst! Scanlon! Ya dumb goons, come back here! Come on, let's get 'em!
I thought I might donate it to the mess hall.
I don't have any.
Okay, Mack! Whoowe, Candy girl, are we in an insane asylum or ain't we?
How's your ass been holdin' up, honey?
He's a patient, Rose...
Oh, yeah...
Yeah...
Hi ya, big boy? How's it goin'? Like it in here?
He can't hear you, Rose. He's just a big deaf an' dumb indian...
Who is he?
He's in charge.
Are you a doctor?
Sure, I know Chuck. I know him.
Well, listen to this. He got mad at me one day. Boy, did he get mad at me. He took the light bulb, ya know. I thought he was going to cram it right up me, ya know. But he ate it. He ate the whole fucking light bulb. Now, tell me! Is he crazy? Tell me! Is he crazy?
Sure, she understands what you mean. She's not dumb. Why do you think Rose came to visit us? Rose is very interested in hospitals and hospital facilities. Aren't you, Rose?
What?
Hey, how ya doin', cutie?
Okay. How you doing?
Just great! See ya around!
Hey, how ya doin'?
Fine, thank you. Here, please take these.
What are they?
To help you relax... please...
Please follow me.
You an' me, Chief.
You know, I never got your name.
Miss Itsu. In here, please.
You comin' in to hold my hand?
No...
Yeah... Well, see ya around, Itsu.
What you boys doin' up at this ungodly time o' the night?
Prayin', brother. Prayin'.
Well, you boys finish it up an' climb back into your beds. 'Kay?
'Kay...
I thought I told you boys to go to bed!
Our prayers have been answered, Turkle! Our prayers have been answered!
Oh yeah...
I tell ya, there's an angel of mercy standing out there, Turkle.
Hallelujah, brother, now get back in bed!
Come an' see.
That angel of mercy, he ain't a she, is he?
You's better believe it, brother!
Ah believe ya, brother. Ah believe ya!
Now, wouldn't you pray for twenty bucks, a bottle booze an' a piece of that angel cake?
Ah'm on my knees, brother, ah'm on my knees.
I'll be very glad to show you around, Miss...
Yeah, that's a good idea, Turkle. Why don't ya take Rose on a little tour of our facilities...
Got a cigarette?
Sure...
Hey, how's it look up there, big boy?
He can't hear you. He's just a deaf and dumb Indian!
That right?
You just come on with that three fifty and Martini will take care of himself... Your dice, Scanlon.
Gimme those dice. I'll blow this board to pieces. Here we go... Lebenty leben, count me over eleven, Martini...
A dime.
Okay. Who else?
Scanlon! Hey, Scanlon, wake up!
Yeah, what's up?
Shhhh. See ya around the ball park.
No!
Martini out!
Yeah, buddy?
Are you a doctor?
No, 'fraid not...
What's troubling ya, buddy?
I want you to write me a letter to my brother for a hundred dollars to bury me.
You look pretty healthy to me.
I'm the next one.
How do ya know that?
Because I quit breathing.
You're breathin' right now.
You think it's funny, huh?
Yeah, you don't know how to get outta this place!
Put your money where your mouth is, Taber.
Yeah, yeah, you're a fucking phony, McMurphy!
You want me to show ya! You want me to show ya how!
Yeah, yeah, show me. Show me how!
All right!
I'll bet a buck you don't do it!
You're on!
Up an' at 'em, Taber.
What's going on?
Shhhh. Time to say goodbye.
Bullshit. You ain't got no way out!
Oh, yeah?
Yeah!
How much ya wanna bet?
Ten bucks.
You're on. Let's go! An' keep it quiet.
Out. It's the way out. So just keep it in your minds if ya ever wanna make use of it.
I don't believe it...
Somebody's coming!
Shhh! This way!
Yeah, take us back to the dumbwaiter, Mac.
I'm not going back in there. I told ya this was a one way trip. Now stand aside.
Yeah, we'll miss breakfast!
Breakfast! Hell, I know just the place where we can chow down an' thaw out before we shoot back on home. 'Kay?
Shhh. Hold it down! I'll take you guys down, but ya gotta come right back up! 'Kay?
'Kay, Mac!
Shhh... Remember this is a privilege, so I don't want none of you goons fuckin' up. Kay?
'Kay, Mac!
'Kay, let's see... Cheswick first ... then Billy... Martini... Scanlon... Sefelt... Fredrickson... Taber an' the Chief... 'Kay
'Kay!
Shhh!
Pardon me miss, but would you mind turning...
Stay back! Patients aren't allowed to enter the... Oh, stay back!
All I'm askin' is...
Your medicine, Mister McMurphy.
What's the horse pill for, honey?
It's just medication, Mister McMurphy, good for you. Now down it goes...
Look, miss, I don't like swallowing something without knowing what it is!
Don't get upset, Mister McMurphy...
I'm not upset. All I wanna know, for the lovva Jesus...
Man, there sure is an awful lot of poontang around here.
Hold it!
Oh, what's that?
Why, I'll betcha there must be a million albacore and tuna running of the coast right this minute.
Oh, do you do much fishing?
Is that so?
Yup! Worked right outta Depoe Bay for just about every season since I was able to haul my own weight.
My, my... Ah, who are you?
McMurphy, Doc. R.P. McMurphy.
Hell, Doc, I've been everything from a hoopla man with a twobit carny show to a top mechanic and bull goose catskinner for every gypo loggin' operation in the Northwest till the Army taught me what my natural bent was.
Oh, what was that?
Poker!
I see.
Yeah, but you know how society persecutes a dedicated man.
In what way?
They say I'm a habitual hassler. Like I fight some. Sheeut. They didn't mind so much when I was a dumb logger and got into a hassle. That's a hardworkin' feller blowing off steam, they say. But if you're a gambler, all you have to do is spit slantwise and you're a goddamned criminal.
I see...
To tell the truth, ever since I found my natural callin' I done time in so many smalltime jails I could write a brochure...
Yes... Ah, do you know why you're here?
Well, ya know, Doc... Doesn't it say so there?
Well, according to the Warden at Pendleton, you were a disturbing influence on others. 'It appears that there is a potential in him for instigating a revolt among the other inmates.' What do you think of that report?
I don't, Doc...
Arrested on an assault charge five times...
That's correct, Doc ...
The doctor at the prison states: 'Don't overlook the possibility that this man may be faking psychosis to escape the drudgery of the work farm...' What do you say to that?
Doc, what can I tell ya?
Ah, it seems you have no other psychiatric history, Mister Murphy?
No, this is my first trip, Doc.
Well, you're here for a ninetyday observation period, Mister McMurphy. I'd like you to understand you are here on a court order and we are responsible to the state. So, I'd like your cooperation!
You bet, Doc!
Good. Good.
Well, I was turnin' this dilemma over in my head, when I happened to hit on that old tub room out there, an' I said to myself, McMurphy, I said, that place would make a great second day room. A sort of game room for the young fellas. Whadaya think, Doc?
It is worth considering... Miss Ratched?
How are you feeling?
Just fine, Doc... In fact, I think I might've put on a couple of pounds since I got here.
Good, good, and how are you getting along on the ward?
Come on, Doc, you know as well as I do what's been comin' down in that loony bin.
Yes, well, Miss Ratched feels that you're a disturbing influence on the other patients.
Shoot, Doc, the only one I'm disturbing is that old nurse and her fixed ways. That's all.
Yes, that may be so, but in making a careful study of your past record, along with your behavior since you arrived here, my feeling is that you are not mentally ill and it is going to be my recommendation that you be returned to Pendleton where they are better equipped to handle your case.
Come on, Doc, you must be kiddin'.
I'm afraid not.
Jesus, that old nurse sure wants my ass in a sling, don't she!
No, Mister McMurphy, it's just that we cannot offer you the guidance and assistance that you would receive at Pendleton.
Guidance and assistance! That's insane! Doc, ya gotta help me.
I'm sorry, but I can't keep you here.
When?
We'll let you know.
Candy. Candy, over here. Hey, Doc, time out.
Time out!
Time out!
Time out!
Replacement coming in! Harding out!
Gimme the ball!
No. Me! Me!
I saw thum! I saw thum!
Me, too! Me, too!
I wanna see it...
Me too! Me too!
I wanna go home!
Yeah, it's cold!
I'm hungry.
My turn.
No.
Jesus God...
What is it?
Gary Blinker's fulla shit!
He's not!
He is!
Yeah, buddy?
Can you borrow me a dime?
Sorry, buddy, I'm clean outta change...
'Kay, place your bets.
What's this?
That's a dime, Martini.
Bet a nickel!
Whadaya bet, Cheswick?
Big king... little deuce... another king... a lovely lady... big ten... and a trey... hey, hey, whadaya say? Ya hit or sit, Martini?
Hit me.
That's twenty up, Martini. Hey, Taber, who's pitching the opening game?
Hit me!
Wait a minute, Martini, I can't hear a thing. What?
Yeah, an' I'm tellin' ya, she's just an icyhearted overthehump gal who never got enough of the old whambam to straighten 'er out... Okay, who wants a card?
Me. Hit me!
You need four houses on every lot of the same color, Martini. Now let's go, for Christsakes.
Hold it a minute.
Right!
A nickel.
Psst! Hey, Martini, wake up!
Yeah, Mac?
Byebye.
Shhh. Wait a minute. You guys are gonna screw up my plans. So just gone on back to bed like nothin' happened.
No! I wanna go!
Whadaya doin', there's no one there!
I saw 'em! I saw 'em.
Gimme the ball!
Okay, Martini. That's okay. Now you watch me.
Miss Ratched. Given all the conditions of that sublime relationship, coupled with the subsequent annihilation of all that I held to be sacred, mentally, physically and emotionally, the only thing that I can speculate on, at this late date, is how I will justify the very existence of my life, with or without my dear wife.
What's he talkin' about?
Big king, too bad...
Just wait till you hear...
Hear what?
McMurphy killed two attendants and escaped...
When?
Yesterday...
Who told you that?
Gary Blinker...
Don't you have any clubs?
No!
Let me see your hand!
No!
Well, if you gentlemen will excuse me, I have some pressing matters to attend to.
Gimme a cigarette!
No!
Why not?
I'm not running a charity ward...
Martini!
Your buddy is callin' ya.
What are you doing?
I'm seeing what a busy man does.
Well, say, buddy, is that the usual procedure for those Group Ther'py shindigs? Bunch of chickens at a peckin' party?
A pecking party?
That's right, buddy. And you want to know who pecks the first peck?
It's as simple as that. You've been on our ward six hours and have already simplified the work of Freud, Jung and Maxwell Jones in one grand analogy: it's a pecking party.
I'm not talking about Fred Yoong or Maxwell Jones, buddy, what I'm talkin' about is that crummy meeting and what that nurse did to you!
Did to me?
Did to you and all the rest of you guys.
Miss Ratched is a competent psychiatric nurse, not some, some kind of monster pecking out our eyes!
She ain't peckin' at your eyes, buddy.
ElectroShock Therapy, my friend. Five cents' worth of electricity and you are out of everybody's hair.
Tell 'er to go to hell anyway!
And if you persist in your ways, they can always ship you over to Medical Surgery.
What for?
Lobotomy!
Lobotomy?
That!
Is that your sense of humor or are you tryin' to say somethin'?
Now, what would I be trying to say?
You boys seem to think you've got a champ in there, huh?
I don't see you scoring any points, buddy. And you're just the man for the job, right?
Hell, I couldn't get it up over old hatchetface if ya paid me!
She's not all that homely, Mister McMurphy. In fact, she must have been a rather beautiful young lady.
What's the use! Hooee! It'd do you birds some good just to get a little exercise lifting your arms to vote!
A baseball game isn't worth the risk, my friend.
It is to me! An' if I hafta bust way outta this place to see it, I will!
And how do you propose to accomplish that little feat, my friend?
That's between me an' myself. So why don't you boys just shove off. I got some planning to do.
With this thing! I'm gonna put this thing right through the window, that's how!
You mean you're going to try to pick that thing up and shove it through the window?
You're fuckin' Aright, I am!
With your own two hands?
You heard me the first time!
Twentyfive dollars.
Okay, Harding, you're on.
Okay, sucker.
Yeah... Okay, stand aside, you guys! You're usin' up my oxygen!
Giving up?
Just warmin' up.
He can't hear you!
I know, goddammit! You don't have ta tell me that!
So why are you talking to him?
I'm not talkin' to him! I'm talkin' to myself! It helps me think!
It doesn't help him.
Well, it doesn't hurt him either! Does it, Chief! See, it doesn't hurt him. Jump! An' put it in!
Ya owe me twentyfive bucks.
What for?
I'm busting outta this place.
That's nice. Send me a post card.
What's your plan, Mack?
Plan?... Oh, yeah, the plan... Yeah...
Ya deaf! I said pass the ball!
What are you talking about??? Everybody was covered!!! Everybody was covered!!!
I was open! Come on, let's play ball!
Time in! Hold it! Time out! I said Harding out!
I refuse!
I said out!
No!
I'm the coach!
I just started!
You can come back later!
I don't trust you!
Scanlon out!
Hey, Harding, wake me in an hour.
Sure, Mack...
Yeah, Harding, where do you breathe anyway?
Through the ass.
I'll bet a dollar.
Me, too...
Neither do I...
Me too...
Yeah, my feet are cold...
My feet hurt...
Christ, they even got my first grade report card here...
Lemme see...
Ya know what, Fred?
What?
It's the questions she asks.
Tell 'er to go straight to hell!
Which gets you shipped up to Disturbed for a nice little zap job.
Huh?
What? What?
So long, Freddy. Don't take any wooden nickles.
What?
Shhh...
Mine, too!
We'll go back just as soon as we find those guys! 'Kay?
He's a big flounder. Could weigh two, three hundred. You got to lift him in with a winch.
Does that mean we have to cut him loose?
Like hell we will! We got the muscle standing right here. All we need is a couple gaffin' hooks and some rope.
What for?
What for?
She won't give me any more cigarettes!
That okay. I'll take your marker. How many ya want?
Lend me twenty.
I second the motion!
Atta boy, Cheswick!
Let's go, for Christsakes...
It's your dirty roll, Cheswick.
Ha! Did ya see that! Hey, Cheswick!
Yeah, Mack?
Come here!
Yeah, Mack?
Let me get on your shoulders.
Sure, Mack...
Hey, Cheswick! Wake up!
Yeah, Mack, what is it?
I'm leaving. Goodbye!
Where ya goin', Mac?
Shhh...
How ya gettin' out, Mac?
Shhh... That's for me to know an' you to find out.
Where's Martini and Scanlon?
They went that way.
Charlie, ya can't ever let those goons outta ya sight! Understand!
Right, Mack!
They must be up there!
Yeah!
There they are!
Hey, what's that?
Yeah, where we going?
I dunno. Where do ya wanna go?
When do you think we'll be going back, Mack?
Come here a minute, Cheswick. You, too, Sefelt. Hey, all you guys, come over here, I wanna show you somethin'.
Sock it to 'em, kid!
Are they all crazies?
Pssst! Hey Rose! There they are!
What? Where?
In there.
Wow! They're so quiet.
Wait a minute...
It's okay, Rose. You can go with him.
Oh yeah! Well if ya don't mind, I'll decide on my own date!
Shit, Rose! What's there to decide? There's only four of us.
Whaddaya talkin' about? There's at least twenty guys in there. Let's wake 'em up and get this party on the road.
Go with him, Rose. Go with him.
Well, okay, but I just want to look at the facilities. That's all.
Say it again.
Thank you.
Say... God Bless America!
God Bless America.
Goddammit, you sly sonofabitch! Does anybody else know?
No.
Shit! This is too much! Chief, I tell you we're gonna bust outta this place an' make it all the way to Canada before they know what bit 'em.
Canada...
Ya like that, Chief, huh?
Yeah...
Yeah, well, well, well. 'Bout time the rest of the world got a gander at Big Chief Bromden cuttin' down the boulevard, stopping just long enough for virgins... Oh, man, I tell you, I tell you, you'll have women trippin' you and beating you to the floor...
Canada...
Shhh, Chief, don't talk. Never talk! Remember, this is just between you an' me. Do ya understand?
Whatcha boys playin'?
HHHearts.
Shoot! No wonder you don't care nothin' 'bout showin' your hand.
What's your name, buddy?
BBBilly.
Well, put 'er there, Billy boy, my name's McMurphy.
What I wanna know is who's the top loony around here?
YYYou mmean ththe prpresident of the PPPatients CCouncil?
Yeah, that'll do for openers!
HHHarding, the mmman wwants to ttalk to you, yyou're the prpr pr...
Yyyes! Yes! Yyyyou sssaw wh whwhat she cccan do to us!
What did I see 'cept a grown man gettin' whipped so bad he can't laugh anymore.
Break it up, God dammit! Ain't I got enough troubles without you guys messin' around... can't depend on nobody.
Some of us hahahave bbbeen here a long tttime, Randle, and will b bbe here long after this WoWo World Series of yours is ohohoh, what's the use anyway...
MMMack, yyyyou cccan't ll lift that thing!
Stand aside, son. Any more takers?
That's okay, kid...
Thththen yyyou're nnnot mm mad?
No, kid, it was my own stupidity, that's what pissed me off.
Ooooh...
What we're gonna have to do is pull this ballclub together for our next play. 'Kay!
'Kkkay, Mack!
Hey, Billy. Billy boy, wake up and say goodbye to your ol' buddy.
Wwwwhat is it, MMMac?
So long, kid.
Whwhwhwh...
Shhh...
So long suckers.
Whwhwhere ya going, MMMac?
Come on, don't crap out on me now. We got two buddies out there!
II dddon't know! MMMiss R Ratched gggg...
Fuck Miss Ratched!
A bus?
Yyyes, a bbbus!
Well, shoot, man! Whadaya say we take ourselves a little spin around the place.
III'm wwwet...
Go ahead! Go back!
Your horses are hungry, That's what she did say, Come sit down beside me, An' feed them some hay. My horses ain't hungry, They wontt eat your hayayaeee...
HHey, MMack.
Yeah, kid?
WWWhere we gggoing?
'KKay, MMack!
Soo, faretheweel, darlin'. I'm gone on my way, My wagons are loaded, My whip's in my hand...
HHHelp!
Ease up on the star drag, keep the tie up, up and work hell outta that fella.
What is it, kid?
CCCome here and llook at th this!
Hhhow's it gggoing, Mack?
Just fine, Billy boy, just fine. Full of piss an' vinegar! They checked my plugs and cleaned my points...
WWWe hheard yyou wwere nnever cccoming back!
Yeah, well, let me tell ya somethin'... While I was up there gettin' inlightened, I came up with one hellava plan...
IIIII'll ggggo, MMMack...
Good boy, thank you, Billy.
Whatsamatter, kid, what's botherin' you...?
Ahahahare yyyyou ggggoing tttto muhmuhmuhmarry her?
Marry who?
CCCCCandy!
Candy? Hell no, Billy, she's just a good friend, that's all...
Wuwuwu IIII thththink shsh shshe's ththththe mamamamost bubububeautiful wuwuwuwoman in thththe whole world!
In ya go...
MMMMack?
It's okay, kid. Everything it going to be okay... I'll come back an' getcha in a while... 'Kay...
Ahhh, Billy...
Pppplease duhduhduhduh tt tell, MMMMiss RRRatched, yy you don't need to!
Yes, Miss Ratched?
Mister Washington, why don't we get a good head start on the day by shaving Mister Bromden and see if we can't avoid a disturbance.
Yes, Miss Ratched...
Yes, Miss Ratched?
Please see to Mister Bromden.
Yes, Miss Ratched...
Put him in Doctor Spivey's office!
Yes, Miss Ratched...
Easy now, don't smudge 'em, we got lots of games ahead of us...
Mister McMurphy!
Yes, ma'am...
Will you come with me, please.
Hold the fort down, will ya, fellas!
My name is Miss Ratched. I'm the head nurse here. You've already met Miss Pilbow and Aides Washington and Warren.
Yes, ma'am.
We do appreciate the way you have taken it upon yourself to meet the other patients.
Thank you, ma'am...
This is your bed. You may leave your things in that cabinet.
Yes, ma'am...
Please use your time to familiarize yourself with your new home and if there is anything you need to know, don't hesitate to ask us.
Now that you mention it, I sure would like to call my aunt up in Portland and tell 'er where I am so she can come visit me.
All in good time, Mister McMurphy. All in good time.
Yes, ma'am.
Good. Now if you'll just go along with Mister Washington, he'll see that you're properly oriented.
Is there anything else?
Just that I'm glad to be here, Miss Ratched. I really am.
Good. I'm sure we'll be friends.
Yeah, you ain't half so bad looking for a head nurse.
Yes. Now go along, Mister McMurphy. Go along.
Yes, ma'am. Lead the way, Sam.
Mister McMurphy, this ward is a democratic community run by the patients and their votes, so you should feel at ease in your new surroundings to the extent you can freely discuss emotional problems in front of the patients and staff. However, the cardinal rule, and I must emphasize this: Everyone keeps their seat during the meeting!
Yeah, well, it just pains me somethin' awful to see a full growed man sloshing around in his own water...
Yes... We were discussing Mister Harding's problem with his wife. Now, who will start? Billy.
Mister McMurphy. Patients aren't allowed in here.
Sorry, ma'am.
Pardon me, ma'am, can I ask you somethin'?
Yes, Mister McMurphy?
How 'bout turning off that music for a while so a man can hear himself think?
That music is for everyone, Mister McMurphy.
Well, say, how 'bout easin' it down a bit so a man don't have to shout!
Mister McMurphy, there are old men here who couldn't hear the music at all if it were lower. That music is all they have, and I wish you wouldn't lean against the glass there, your hands are staining the window.
Sorry to have bothered you.
Not at all, Mister McMurphy...
That's all right, Miss Pilbow, if Mister McMurphy does not wish to take his medication orally, he may...
No, that's okay, ma'am. Down it goes.
Mister McMurphy, patients are not permitted to run around in towels.
I wanna report a robbery!
On this ward?
Yeah, some creep stole my cigarettes!
Oh, I had them removed.
What for?
Patients are rationed to one pack of cigarettes a day.
Now you boys hurry along and wash up for breakfast... You too, Mister McMurphy.
Well, say. How 'bout springing a pack of cigarettes loose?
After breakfast, Mister McMurphy, after breakfast.
You sure run a tightassed ship 'round here, don't ya!
Yes. Now run along like a good boy and see that you wash up properly.
Yes, Mister McMurphy.
Right... I've been givin' some serious consideration to what you told me about the democratic something of this therapeutic community of ours, an' I got a few things I wanna get off my chest, before we get back to Harding's problem.
Certainly, Mister McMurphy.
Right!
I'm not finished yet.
Go on...
'Kay, item two. Tomorrow, and listen carefully to me, you dinga lings. Tomorrow is the opening game of the World Series an' what I want is to take a vote on switchin' the group meetin' to later on in the day, so we can watch the ballgame.
Just a minute, Mister McMurphy!
Yeah?
Please understand, the schedule has been set up for a delicately balanced reason that would be thrown into turmoil by a switch of routines.
The hell with the schedule, you can get back to the schedule next week when the series is over. What I want is a vote on it right now!
Yes. Now was there anything else you wanted to discuss, Mister McMurphy?
No way.
That was the first time you attempted to commit suicide, wasn't it? You must try to talk about it, Billy.
Jesus Christ, the man doesn't want to talk, so get off his back an' let's get on to some new business.
Mister McMurphy, the purpose of this meeting is therapy. Group therapy.
Yeah, yeah, the hell with that crap! The World Series is goin' on right' now an' that's therapy also!
Let me pose a question to the group: do any of you feel that Mister McMurphy is perhaps imposing his personal desires on you too much?
What the hell does that have to do with it? This is an important event and I want a vote on it!
Yeah, it'll satisfy me.
Very well. What is it you're proposing, Mister McMurphy?
I'm proposing a revote on watchin' the ballgame!
A vote is before the group.
Okay, I wanna see the hands. I wanna see which of you birds has any guts.
Everyone in favor of changing the schedule raise his hand.
That's it! We made it!
I'm sorry, Mister McMurphy, I count only eight.
So do I!
But there are eighteen patients on the ward, Mister McMurphy.
You mean to tell me you're gonna count those old birds over there?
I'm sorry, Mister McMurphy, but you must have a majority to change ward policy.
Well, I'll be a sonofabitch...
Mister McMurphy, you are deliberately violating the rules!...
He's into his windup. Here comes the pitch. Strike on the inside corner!
You men remain seated!
He's into his windup. Here's the next pitch... and it's a hit! It's a hit!
Yeah, ya should've come along with us, Miss Ratched, an' gotten a little sun on your cheeks and maybe caught a fish or two.
Mr. McMurphy, you had no right to take these men out with you!
Yeah, that's kind of crazy, ain't it!
No, it was irresponsible!
Mister McMurphy.
Yes, ma'am?
Welcome back.
Thank you, ma'am.
I hope everything is settled.
Ma'am, I'm as gentle as a puppy dog. Why, I haven't licked the tar out of an aide for two weeks! Hi ya, Doc!
Good. Why don't you join us?
Why, thank you, ma'am... Whew. Man, I tell you, that place up there is somethin' else! Well, ya boys been practicin' up for the big game? I figured as much...
Miss Ratched, would you please save a space for my aunt? She's comin' down from Portland.
Certainly, Mister McMurphy, with pleasure.
Thank you, ma'am...
Gotta go now, ma'am...
Yes. Good luck, Mister McMurphy.
Thank you, ma'am.
Mmmma'am?
Would you like to start?
Nnnnnno, ma'am.
Mister Sefelt?
Yes, Billy?
IIIII dddon't sssee how anyone could lulululove a man who ttttalks the way he does.
Was it your idea to visit her on Sunday?
Yyyyes...
Tell us about it...
IIII ccccame over SSS Sunday mmmmorning after chchch church and brbrbrought her ss some flowers, and I sssaid, I said, 'CCCCelia, will you muh muhmuhmuhmuh...' till the girl broke out lllaughing.
What was it about her that disturbed you so, Billy?
I was in luhlove with her.
Billy, were you afraid of her, or of her love?
You mean you don't want their votes to count, Billy!
III...
Pppplease dudududon't tt tell her, ppplease...
You should have thought about that before you brought that woman in here!
Nnnnno, no, I dudududidn't, I didn't!
I don't want your mother to believe something like this but what am I to think?
Shshshshe mmmade mmme do it!
Billy, that girl couldn't have pulled you in there forcibly...
Shshshe did! Everybody did!
Who? Tell me!
MMMuhMuhMcMurphy!
Get up, Billy.
No! No! No!
Nnnnduhduhduhplplplplmuh muhmuh...
Mister Washington.
At the close of Friday's meeting, we were discussing Mister Harding's problem, concerning his wife... Mister Harding stated that his wife made him uneasy because she drew stares from men on the street. Is that correct, Mister Harding?
Yes, that's perfectly correct.
He also thinks he may have given her reason to seek sexual attention elsewhere, but he didn't say how. He has been heard to say to his wife, 'I hate you, I don't ever want to see you again. You've betrayed me.' So. Does anyone care to touch upon this further?
Am I to take it that there isn't a man among you who has an opinion concerning this matter? Mister Harding, you've stated on more than one occasion that you suspected your wife of seeing other men.
Yes, Miss Ratched, this is correct.
But you have no proof.
No, Miss Ratched...
And yet you suspect her.
Yes, that is correct.
Why?
I can only speculate as to the reasons why.
Have you ever speculated, Mister Harding, that you are impatient with your wife because she does not meet your mental requirements?
No secrets, Mister Harding. Let's get it all out in the open...
I mean, the other day you made an allusion to my wife and the possible sexual problems we might be having. I know that to be the case, but the way in which you broached it, if that's your idea of teaching me something...
Yes, Mister Harding?
Yes, thank you, Miss Ratched. Since our last meeting I have been reflecting, quite seriously, on the nature of my problem. Naturally, I'm referring to the capacity to obtain the necessary results in order to obtain... No, no. To personify the very existence of that relationship regardless of the function... Regardless of the function, we will confront the question of... Yes. Yes. The question of... Existence... Relationship... Function... Confront... Yes, confronting us in the moment of deepest crisis... Yes, the crisis of our souls. Of our souls, which I am trying to fully understand the problem... the problem. Not to shut ourselves off, but somehow... Somehow to understand fully our capacity... to obtain... to personify... the question... existence depends... depends on the question... to reflect... to reflect...
Yes, Mister Harding?
Is it true McMurphy killed two attendants and escaped yesterday?
No. Mister Harding, that is not true.
Excuse me.
Yes.
Bad news.
What?
We've got a security camera in this bit of the shop.
So?
So, I saw you put that book down your trousers.
What book?
The one down your trousers.
I haven't got a book down my trousers.
Right  well, then we have something of an impasse. I tell you what  I'll call the police  and, what can I say?  If I'm wrong about the whole bookdownthetrousers scenario, I really apologize.
Okay  what if I did have a book down my trousers?
Well, ideally, when I went back to the desk, you'd remove the Cadogan guide to Bali from your trousers, and either wipe it and put it back, or buy it. See you in a sec.
Which floor?
Three.
Are you sure you...?
Yes.
Oh. Right.
No  they're... for my grandmother. She's in a hospital nearby. Thought I'd kill two birds with one stone.
I'm sorry. Which hospital?
Do you mind me not saying  it's a rather distressing disease and the name of the hospital rather gives it away.
Oh sure. Of course.
How was she?
Fabulous.
Wait a minute  she took your grandmother's flowers?
Even he. Hey, you couldn't help me with an incredibly important decision, could you?
This is important in comparison to, let's say, whether they should cancel third world debt?
That's right  I'm at last going out on a date with the great Janine and I just want to be sure I've picked the right tshirt.
What are the choices?
Well... wait for it... First there's this one...
Yes  might make it hard to strike a really romantic note.
Point taken.
Cool, huh?
Yes  she might think you don't have true love on your mind.
Wouldn't want that... Okay  just one more.
Well, yes, that's perfect. Well done.
Thanks. Great. Wish me luck.
Good luck.
There's something wrong with this yogurt.
It's not yogurt  it's mayonnaise.
Well, there you go. On for a video fest tonight? I've got some absolute classic.
Imagine  somewhere in the world there's a man who's allowed to kiss her.
Yes, she is fairly fabulous.
Hey.
Hi...
Just incidentally  why are you wearing that?
Ahm  combination of factors really. No clean clothes...
There never will be, you know, unless you actually clean your clothes.
Right. Vicious circle. And then I was like rooting around in your things, and found this, and I thought  cool. Kind of spacey.
There's something wrong with the goggles though...
No, they were prescription, so I could see all the fishes properly.
Groovy. You should do more of this stuff.
So  any messages?
Yeh, I wrote a couple down.
Two? That's it?
You want me to write down all your messages?
Who were the ones you didn't write down from?
Ahm let's see  ahm. No. Gone completely. Oh no, wait. There was  one from your mum: she said don't forget lunch and her leg's hurting again.
Right. No one else?
Absolutely not.
What did she say?
Well, it was genuinely bizarre... she said, hi  it's Anna  and then she said, call me at the Ritz  and then gave herself a completely different name.
Which was?
Absolutely no idea. Remembering one name's bad enough...
Try 'Flintstone.'
What?
I think she said her name was 'Flintstone.'
Does 'Flintstone' mean anything to you?
Bollocks, bollocks, bollocks. Have you seen my glasses?
No, 'fraid not.
Bollocks. This happens every time I go to the cinema. Average day, my glasses are everywhere  everywhere I look, glasses. But the moment I need them they disappear. It's one of life's real cruelties.
That's compared to, like, earthquakes in the Far East or testicular cancer?
Oh shit, is that the time? I have to go.
Thanks for your help on the glasses thing.
You're welcome. Did you find them?
Sort of.
Well, okay. There's this girl...
Aha! I'd been getting a female vibe. Good. Speak on, dear friend.
She's someone I just can't  someone who... selfevidently can't be mine  and it's as if I've taken loveheroin  and now I can't even have it again. I've opened Pandora's box. And there's trouble inside.
I don't mention that Anna's a vegetarian, did I?
I have some parsnip stew from last week. If I just peel the skin off, it'll be perfect.
Oh my God... Hello.
Hello. I wonder if I could have a little word.
Spike.
I don't want to interfere, or anything ... but she's split up from her boy friend, that's right isn't it?
Maybe.
And she's in your house.
Yes.
And you get on very well.
Yes.
Well, isn't this perhaps a good opportunity to... slip her one?
Spike. For God's sake  she's in trouble  get a grip.
Right. Right. You think it's the wrong moment. Fair enough. Do you mind if I have a go?
Spike!
No  you're right.
I'll talk to you in the morning.
Okay  okay. Might be too late, but okay.
I wouldn't go outside.
Why not?
Just take my work for it.
I went out in my goddamn underwear too.
Get out, Spike. I'm so sorry.
What he's going to say next is  there are people starving in the Sudan.
Well, there are. And we don't need to go anywhere near that far. My best friend slipped  she slipped down stairs, cracked her back and she's in a wheelchair for the rest of her life. All I'm asking for is a normal amount of perspective.
Was it you?
I suppose I might have told one or two people down the pub.
Right.
What's going on?
I'm going to throw out these old videos.
No. You can't bin these. They're classics. I'm not allowing this.
Right  let's talk about rent...
Let me help. We don't want all this shit cluttering up our lives.
Can I help you?
Yes  I was looking for Anna Scott...
Does she know you're coming?
No, no. She doesn't.
I'm afraid I can't really let you through then, sir.
Oh right. I mean, I am a friend  I'm not a lunatic but  no, you basically...
... can't let you through.
Hello.
May I help you, sir?
Ahm, look this is a very odd situation. I'm a friend of Anna Scott's  and she rang me at home the day before yesterday  and left a message saying she's staying with you...
I'm sorry, we don't have anyone of that name here, sir.
No, that's right  I know that. She said she's using another name  but the problem is she left the message with my flatmate, which was a serious mistake.
Yes, sir. I have him in my mind.
And then double it  and that is the  what can I say  git I'm living with and he cannot remember...
No, sir.
How about Miss Flintstone?
No, sir.
Or Bambi... or, I don't know, Beavis or Butthead?
No, sir.
Right. Right. Fair enough. Thanks.
Max. This is Anna.
Hello, Anna ahm... Scott  have some wine.
You haven't slept with her, have you?
That is a cheap question and the answer is, of course, no comment.
'No comment' means 'yes.'
No, it doesn't.
Do you ever masturbate?
Definitely no comment.
You see  it means 'yes.'
So I get the brownie?
I think you do, yes.
You didn't know she had a boyfriend?
No  did you?
Bloody hell, I can't believe it  my whole life ruined because I don't read 'Hello' magazine.
Let's face facts. This was always a nogo situation. Anna's a goddess and you know what happens to mortals who get involved with the gods.
Buggered?
Every time. But don't despair  I think I have the solution to your problems.
Really?
Well?
She's perfect, perfect.
I think you have forgotten... what an unusual situation you have here  to find someone you actually love, who'll love you  the chances are... always miniscule. Look at me  not counting the American  I've only loved two girls in my whole life, both total disasters.
That's not fair.
No really, one of them marries me and then leaves me quicker than you can say Indiana Jones  and the other, who seriously ought to have known better, casually marries my best friend.
Wait a minute  I'm your brother and I don't know anything about this.
Is it someone we know?
Any more announcements?
Yes  I feel I must apologize to everyone for my behavior for the last six months. I have, as you know, been slightly down in the mouth.
There's an understatement. There are dead people on better form.
But I wish to make it clear I've turned a corner and henceforward intend to be impressively happy.
So  you've laid the ghost.
I believe I have.
Don't give a damn about the famous girl.
No, don't think I do.
Which means you won't be distracted by the fact that she's back in London, grasping her Oscar, and to be found filming most days on Hampstead Heath.
Oh God no.
So not over her, in fact.
Absolutely. Never trust a vegetarian.
Great. Excellent. Thanks.
Classic. Absolutely classic. Profit from major sales push  minus ?347.
Shall I go get a cappuccino? Ease the pain.
Yes, better get me a half. All I can afford.
Cappuccino as ordered.
Thanks. I don't think you'll believe who was just in here.
Who? Someone famous?
Would be exciting if someone famous did come into the shop though, wouldn't it? Do you know  this is pretty incredible actually  I once saw Ringo Starr. Or at least I think it was Ringo. It might have been that broke from 'Fiddler On The Roof,' Toppy.
Topol.
That's right  Topol.
But Ringo Starr doesn't look anything like Topol.
No, well... he was quite a long way away.
So it could have been neither of them?
I suppose so.
Right. It's not a classic anecdotes, is it?
Not classic, no.
Right  want another one?
Yes. No, wait  let's go crazy  I'll have an orange juice.
Martin  your customer.
Can I help you?
I have to disturb you when you're cooking the books, but there's a delivery.
Martin, can't you just deal with this yourself?
But it's not for the shop. It's for you.
Okay. Tell me, would I have to pay a wet rag as much as I pay you?
Excuse me  it's your mother on the phone.
Can you tell her I'll ring her back.
I actually tried that tack  but she said you said that before and it's been twentyfour hours, and her foot that was purple is now a sort of blackish color...
Okay  perfect timing as ever  hold the fort for a second will you, Martin?
Pleased to meet you. Did you like the film?
Ah... yes, enormously.
Well, fire away.
Right, right. Ahm  did you enjoy making the film?
I did.
Any bit in particular?
Well, you tell me which bit you liked most  and I'll tell you if I enjoyed making it.
Ahm right, right, I liked the bit in space very much. Did you enjoy making that bit?
I agree.
I'm sorry. I didn't get down what magazines you're from.
'Horse and Hound.' The name's William Whacker. I think she might be expecting me.
Okay  take a seat. I'll check.
If you'd like to come with me we can rush you through the others.
The others?
Mr. Thacker's from 'Horse and Hound.'
Mr. Thacker?
Yes?
Have you got a moment?
Are you a fan of Henry James?
This is Henry James film?
Ahm... room service.
How you doing? I thought you guys all wore those penguin coats.
Well, yes  usually  I'd just changed to go home  but I thought I'd just deal with this final call.
Oh great. Could you do me a favour and try to get us some really cold water up here?
I'll see what I can do.
Still, not sparkling.
Absolutely. Ice cold still water.
Unless it's illegal in the UK to serve liquids below room temperature: I don't want you going to jail just to satisfy my whims...
No, I'm sure it'll be fine.
And maybe you could just adios the dishes and empty the trash.
Right.
Ah  no. It's fine.
What's your name?
Ahm... Bernie.
Hi guys. Oh holy fuck.
Hun  this is Anna. Anna  this is Honey  she's my baby sitter.
Have we got something for you. Something which will make you love me so much you'll want to hug me every single day for the rest of my life.
Blimey. What's that?
The phone number of Anna Scott's agent in London and her agent in New York. You can ring her. You think about her all the time  now you can ring her!
Well, thanks, that's great.
It is great, isn't it. See you tonight. Hey, Marty sexy cardy.
What do you think? Good move?
Good move: when all is said and done, she's nothing special. I saw her taking her pants off and I definitely glimpsed some cellulite down there.
By the way  it's you.
Me?
Yes. What do you think?
Well, yes. Groovy.
I was called and I came. What's up?
William has just turned down Anna Scott.
You daft prick!
What happened?
It was good.
Is this your first film?
No  it's my 22nd.
Of course it is. Any favourite among the 22?
Working with Leonardo.
Da Vinci?
Di Caprio.
Of course. And is he your favourite Italian film director?
Hello, Bernie.
I'm sorry I'm so late. Bollocksed up at work again, I fear. Millions down the drain.
Bernie  this is Anna.
Hello, Anna. Delighted to meet you.
Having you here, Anna, firmly establishes what I've long suspected, that we really are the most desperate hot of underachievers.
Shame!
I'm not saying it's a bad thing, in fact, I think it's something we should take pride in. I'm going to give the last brownie as a prize to the saddest act here.
If anyone gets in our way  we have small nuclear devices.
And we intend to use them!
Where's Bella?
Bernie.
Well, obviously it's me, isn't it  I work in the City in a job I don't understand and everyone keeps getting promoted above me. I haven't had a girlfriends since... puberty and, well, the long and short of it is, nobody fancies me, and if these cheeks get any chubbier, they never will.
But she said she wanted to go out with you?
Yes  sort of...
That's nice.
What?
Well, you know, anybody saying they want to go out with you is... pretty great... isn't it...
It was sort of sweet actually  I mean, I know she's an actress and all that, so she can deliver a line  but she said that she might be as famous as can be  but also... that she was just a girl, standing in front of a boy, asking him to love her.
Bloody hell, this is fun.
Is Miss Scott staying here?
Hiya  sorry  the guinea fowl is proving more complicated than expected.
He's cooking guinea fowl?
Don't even ask.
Bella  this is Anna.
Right.
Still loves you though.
In a depressingly asexual way.
I never fancied you much actually...
I mean I loved you  you were terribly funny. But all that kissing my ears...
Oh no  this is just getting worse. I am going to find myself, 30 years from now, still on this couch.
Do you want to stay?
Why not  all that awaits me at home is a masturbating Welshman.
Good decision. All actresses are mad as snakes.
Tony  what do you think?
This painting isn't the original, is it?
Yes, I think that one may be.
Quickly, quickly  talk very quickly what are you doing here with Anna Scott?
Anna Scott?
Yes.
The movie star?
Yup.
Oh God. Oh God. Oh Goddy God.
No. Not true...
C'est la vie... We're lucky in lots of ways, but... Surely it's worth a brownie.
I just want to say to Tony  don't take it personally. The more I think about things, the more I see no rhyme or reason in life  no one knows why some things work out, and some things don't  why some of us get lucky  and some of us...
... get fired.
No!
Yes, they're shifting the whole outfit much more towards the trading side  and of course... I was total crap.
He's bringing a girl?
Miracles do happen.
Does the girl have a name?
He wouldn't say.
Christ, what is going on in there?
That's right.
And this is William.
Where are you going?
Down Kensington Church Street, then Knightsbridge, then Hyde Park Corner.
Crazy. Go along Bayswater...
Can I just say, I thought 'Ghost' was a wonderful film.
Is that right?
Yes... I've always wondered what Patrick Swayze is like in real life.
I can't say I know Patrick all that well.
Oh dear. He wasn't friendly during the filming?
Well, no  I'm sure he was friendly  to Demi Moore  who acted with him in 'Ghost.'
Excuse me.
Yes.
Can I have your autograph?
What's your name?
Rufus.
What does it say?
Well, that's the signature  and above, it says 'Dear Rufus  you belong in jail.'
Nice one. Would you like my phone number?
Tempting but... no, thank you.
Yes...
Who is it?
Really  don't do that  I'm sure this is not his job.
I'm sorry. Is this a problem?
Thank you, Bernie. Hey  nice surprise, or nasty surprise?
Nice surprise.
Liar. She hates surprises. What are you ordering?
I haven't decided.
Well, don't overdo it. I don't want people saying, 'There goes that famous actor with the big, fat girlfriend."
No, thanks. I'll just look around.
Fine.
That book's really not good  just in case, you know, browsing turned to buying. You'd be wasting your money.
Really?
Yes. This one though is... very good.
I think the man who wrote it has actually been to Turkey, which helps. There's also a very amusing incident with a kebab.
Thanks. I'll think about it.
Sorry about that...
No, that's fine. I was going to steal one myself but now I've changed my mind. Signed by the author, I see.
Yes, we couldn't stop him. If you can find an unsigned copy, it's worth an absolute fortune.
Oh Jesus.
Here, let me help.
Nothing, nothing... Look, I live just over the street  you could get cleaned up.
No thank you. I need to get my car back.
I also have a phone. I'm confident that in five minutes we can have you spick and span and back on the street again... in the nonprostitute sense obviously.
Okay. So what does 'just over the street' mean  give it to me in yards.
Eighteen yards. That's my house there.
Would you like a cup of tea before you go?
No thanks.
Coffee?
No.
Orange juice  probably not.
Something else cold  coke, water, some disgusting sugary drink pretending to have something to do with fruits of the forest?
Really, no.
Would you like something to nibble  apricots, soaked in honey  quite why, no one knows  because it stops them tasting of apricots, and makes them taste like honey, and if you wanted honey, you'd just buy honey, instead of apricots, but nevertheless  there we go  yours if you want them.
No.
Do you always say 'no' to everything?
No. I better be going. Thanks for your help.
You're welcome and, may I also say... heavenly.
Thank you.
Yes. Well. My pleasure.
Oh hi. Forget something?
I forgot my bag.
Oh right.
Here we go.
Thanks. Well...
I apologize for the 'surreal but nice' comment. Disaster...
Don't worry about it. I thought the apricot and honey business was the real lowpoint.
Probably best not tell anyone about this.
Right. No one. I mean, I'll tell myself sometimes but... don't worry  I won't believe it.
Bye.
Hello. Hi. Hi.
Hi.
Oh hi. It's William Thacker. We, ahm I work in a bookshop.
You played it pretty cool here, waiting for three days to call.
No, I've never played anything cool in my entire life. Spike, who I'll stab to death later, never gave me the message.
Oh  Okay.
Perhaps I could drop round for tea or something?
Yeh  unfortunately, things are going to be pretty busy, but... okay, let's give it a try. Four o'clock could be good.
Right. Great. Classic. Classic.
Hi.
Hello.
I brought these, but clearly...
Sorry about not ringing back. The whole twonames concept was totally too much for my flatman's peasized intellect.
No, it's a stupid privacy thing. I always choose a cartoon character  last time out, I was Mrs. Bambi.
Right. Ahm... the film's great... and I just wondered  whether you ever thought of having more... horses in it?
Ahm  well  we would have liked to  but it was difficult, obviously, being set in space.
Obviously. Very difficult.
I'm sorry  I arrived outside  they thrust this thing into my hand  I didn't know what to do.
No, it's my fault, I thought this would all be over by now. I just wanted to sort of apologize for the kissing thing. I seriously don't know what got in to me. I just wanted to make sure you were fine about it.
Absolutely fine about it.
I'm just a complete moron. Sorry. This is the sort of thing that happens in dreams  not in real life. Good dreams, obviously  it's a dream to see you.
And what happens next in the dream?
Are you busy tonight?
Yes.
Well, it was nice to meet you. Surreal but nice.
Thank you. You are 'Horse and Hound's' favorite actress. You and Black Beauty. Tied.
Ahm. That thing I was doing tonight  I'm not doing it any more. I told them I had to spend the evening with Britain's premier equestrian journalist.
Oh well, great. Perfect. Oh no  shittity brickitty  it's my sister's birthday  shit  we're meant to be having dinner.
Okay  fine.
But no, I'm sure I can get out of it.
No, I mean, if it's fine with you, I'll, you know, be your date.
You'll be my date at my little sister's birthday party?
If that's all right.
I'm sure it's all right. My friend Max is cooking and he's acknowledged to be the worst cook in the world, but you know, you could hide the food in your handbag or something.
Okay.
Okay.
You'll have to prove it. This is a great brownie and I'm going to fight for it. State your claim.
Well, I've been on a diet since I was nineteen, which means basically I've been hungry for a decade. I've had a sequence of not nice boyfriends  one of whom hit me: and every time my heart gets broken it gets splashed across the newspapers as entertainment. Meantime, it cost millions to get me looking like this...
Floppy, huh?
It's the hair! It's to do with the hair.
Why is she in a wheelchair?
It was an accident  about eighteen months ago.
And the pregnancy thing  is that to do with the accident?
You know, I'm not sure. I don't think they'd tried for kids before, as fate would have it.
Too complicated.
That's fine.
Busy tomorrow?
I thought you were leaving.
I was.
Gardens. All these streets round here have these mysterious communal gardens in the middle of them. They're like little villages.
Let's go in.
Ah no  that's the point  they're private villages  only the people who live round the edges are allowed in.
You abide by rules like that?
Ahm...
Whoopsidaisies.
What did you say?
Nothing.
Yes, you did.
No, I didn't.
You said 'whoopsidaisies.'
I don't think so. No one has said 'whoopsidaisies,' do they  I mean unless they're...
There's no 'unless.' No one has said "whoopsidaisies" for fifty years and even then it was only little girls with blonde ringlets.
Exactly. Here we go again.
It's a disease I've got  it's a clinical thing. I'm taking pills and having injections  it won't last long.
Step aside.
So who left who?
She left me.
Why?
She saw through me.
Uhoh. That's not good.
I'm sorry.
No, that's fine. I love that you tried... time was I'd have done the same.
I shouldn't have done that. I shouldn't have done that.
No, you were brilliant
I'm rash and I'm stupid and what am I doing with you?
I don't know, I'm afraid.
I don't know either.
Here we are. Do you want to come up?
There seem to be lots of reasons why I shouldn't.
There are lots of reasons. Do you want to come up?
To be able to do that is such a wonderful thing.
You've got to go.
Why?
Because my boyfriend, who I thought was in America, is in fact in the next room.
Your boyfriend?
 this is a fairly strange reality to be faced with. To be honest, I don't realize...
I'm sorry... I don't know what to say.
I think goodbye is traditional.
Hi. Can I come in?
Come in.
I don't know where to go. The hotel is surrounded.
This is the place.
Thank you. I'm just in London for two days  but, with your papers, it's the worse place to be.
These are such horrible pictures. They're so grainy... they make me look like...
Don't think about it. We'll sort it out. Now what would you like  tea ... bath...?
A bath would be great.
I'm really sorry about last time. He just flew in  I had no idea  in fact, I had no idea if he'd ever fly in again.
No, that's fine. It's not often one has the opportunity to adios the plates of a major Hollywood star. It was a thrill for me. How is he?
I don't know. It got to the point where I couldn't remember any of the reasons I loved him. And you... and love?
Well, there's a question  without an interesting answer.
I have thought about you.
Oh no no  no.
Just anytime I've tried to keep things normal with anyone normal  it's been a disaster.
I appreciate that absolutely. Is that the film you're doing?
Yes  start in L.A. on Tuesday.
Would you like me to take you through your lines?
Would you? It's all talk, talk, talk.
Hand it over. Basic plot?
I'm a difficult but brilliant junior officer who in about twenty minutes will save the world from nuclear disaster.
Well done you.
'Message from command. Would you like them to send in the HKs?'
'No, turn over 4 TRS's and tell them we need radar feedback before the KFT's return at 19 hundred  then inform the Pentagon that we'll be needing black star cover from ten hundred through 12.15'  and don't you dare say one word about how many mistakes I made in that speech or I'll pelt you with olives.
'Very well, captain  I'll pass that on straightaway.'
'Thank you.' How many mistake did I make?
Eleven.
Damn. 'And Wainwright...'
Cartwright.
'Cartwright, Wainwright, whatever your name is, I promised little Jimmy I'd be home for his birthday  could you get a message through that I may be a little late.'
'Certainly. And little Johnny?'
My son's name is Johnny?
Yup.
Well, get a message through to him too.
Brilliant. Word perfect I'd say.
What do you think?
Gripping. It's not Jane Austen, it's not Henry James, but it's gripping.
You think I should do Henry James instead?
I'm sure you'd be great in Henry James. But, you know  this writer's pretty damn good too.
Yes  I mean  you never get anyone in 'Wings of a Dove' having the nerve to say 'inform the Pentagon that we need black star cover.'
And I think the book is the poorer for it.
You like Chagall?
I do. It feels like how being in love should be. Floating through a dark blue sky.
With a goat playing a violin.
Yes  happiness wouldn't be happiness without a violinplaying goat.
You've got big feet.
Yes. Always have had.
You know what they say about men with big feet?
No. What's that?
Big feet  large shoes.
The thing that's so irritating is that now I'm so totally fierce when it comes to nudity clauses.
You actually have clauses in your contact about nudity?
Definitely. 'You may show the dent at the top of the artist's buttocks  but neither cheek. In the event of a stunt person being used, the artist must have full consultation.'
You have a stunt bottom?
I could have a stunt bottom, yes.
Would you be tempted to go for a slightly better bottom than your own?
Definitely. Ths is important stuff.
It's one hell of a job. What do you put on your passport? Profession  Mel Gibson's bottom.
Actually, Mel does his own ass work. Why wouldn't he? It's delicious.
The ice cream or Mel Gibson's bottom?
Both.
Today has ben a good day. Which under the circumstances is... unexpected.
Well, thank you. Anyway  time for bed. Or... sofabed.
Right.
Oh please sod off.
Okay.
No! No. Wait. I... thought you were someone else. I thought you were Spike. I'm delighted you're not.
Wow.
What?
It still strikes me as, well, surreal, that I'm allowed to see you naked.
You and every person in this country.
Oh God yes  I'm sorry.
What is it about men and nudity? Particularly breasts  how can you be so interested in them?
Well...
No seriously. I mean, they're just breasts. Every second person in the world has got them...
More than that actually, when you think about it. You know, Meatloaf has a very nice pair...
But... they're oddlooking. They're for milk. Your mum's got them. You must have seen a thousand of them  what's the fuss about?
Actually, I can't think really  let me just have a quick look...
Rita Hayworth used to say  'they go to bed with Gilda  they wake up with me.' Do you feel that?
Who was Gilda?
Her most famous part  men went to bed with the dream  and they didn't like it when they woke up with the reality  do you feel that way with me?
You're lovelier this morning than you have ever been.
Oh.
Can I stay a bit longer?
Stay forever.
Damn, I forgot the jam.
What?
Don't ask.
Oh my God. And they got a photo of you dressed like that?
Undressed like this, yes.
Jesus.
How are you doing?
How do you think I'm doing?
I don't know what happened.
I do. Your furry friend thought he'd make a buck or two telling the papers where I was.
That's not true.
Really? The entire British press just woke up this morning and thought 'Hey  I know where Anna Scott is. She's in that house with the blue door in Notting Hill.' And then you go out in your goddamn underwear.
This is such a mess. I come to you to protect myself against more crappy gossip and now I'm landed in it all over again. For God's sake, I've got a boyfriend.
You do?
As far as they're concerned I do. And now tomorrow there'll be pictures of you in every newspapers from here to Timbuktu.
I know, I know  but... just  let's stay calm...
You can stay calm  it's the perfect situation for you  minimum input, maximum publicity. Everyone you ever bump into will know. 'Well done you  you slept with that actress  we've seen the pictures.'
That's spectacularly unfair.
Who knows, it may even help business. Buy a boring book about Egypt from the guy who screwed Anna Scott.
Now stop. Stop. I beg you  calm down. Have a cup of tea.
I don't want a goddamn cup of tea. I want to go home.
And remember  Spike owes you an expensive dinner. Or holiday  depending if he's got the brains to get the going rate on betrayal.
That's not true. And wait a minute... this is crazy behavior. Can't we just laugh about this? Seriously  in the huge sweep of things, this stuff doesn't matter.
You're right: of course, you're right. It's just that I've dealt with this garbage for ten years now  you've had it for ten minutes. Our perspectives are different.
I mean  today's newspapers will be lining tomorrow's waste paper bins.
Excuse me?
Well, you know  it's just one day. Today's papers will all have been thrown away tomorrow.
You really don't get it. This story gets filed. Every time anyone writes anything about me  they'll dig up these photos. Newspapers last forever. I'll regret this forever.
This is certainly... ah...
I only found out you were here yesterday.
I was going to ring... but... I didn't think you'd want to...
It's not going very well  and it's our last day.
Absolutely  you're clearly very busy.
But... wait... there are things to say.
Okay.
Drink tea  there's lots of tea.
Hi.
Hello.
You disappeared.
Yes  I'm sorry  I had to leave... I didn't want to disturb you.
Well... how have you been?
Fine. Everything much the same. When they change the law Spike and I will marry immediately. Whereas you... I've watched in wonder. Awards, glory ...
Oh no. It's all nonsense, believe me. I had no idea how much nonsense it all was  but nonsense it all is... Well, yesterday was our last day filming and so I'm just off  but I brought you this from home, and...
I thought I'd give it to you.
Thank you. Shall I...
No, don't open it yet  I'll be embarrassed.
Okay  well, thank you. I don't know what it's for. But thank you anyway.
I actually had it in my apartment in New York and just thought you'd... but, when it came to it, I didn't know how to call you... having behaved so... badly, twice. So it's been just sitting in the hotel. But then... you came, so I figured... the thing is... the thing is ...
What's the thing?
You were saying...
Yes. The thing is... I have to go away today but I wondered, if I didn't, whether you might let me see you a bit... or, a lot maybe... see if you could... like me again.
But yesterday... that actor asked you who I was... and you just dismissed me out of hand... I heard  you had a microphone... I had headphones.
You expect me to tell the truth about my life to the most indiscreet man in England?
Sorry about that.
That's fine. There's always a pause when the jury goes out to consider its verdict.
... can I just say 'no' to your kind request and leave it at that?
... Yes, that's fine. Of course. I... you know... of course... I'll just... be getting along then... nice to see you.
The truth is...
... with you, I'm in real danger. It took like a perfect situation, apart from that foul temper of yours  but my relatively inexperienced heart would, I fear, not recover if I was once again ... cast aside, which I would absolutely expect to be. There are too many pictures of you everywhere, too many films. You'd go and I'd be... well, buggered, basically.
I see. That reality is a real 'no,' isn't it?
I live in Notting Hill. You live in Beverly Hills. Everyone in the world knows who you are. My mother has trouble remembering my name.
Okay. Fine. Fine. Good decision.
I hoped there might be  but no, I'm assured there aren't.
And what would you say...
Yes, I'm pretty sure I would.
That's very good news. The readers of 'Horse and Hound' will be absolutely delighted.
So tell me Anna  what do you do?
I'm an actress.
Splendid. I'm actually in the stock market, so not really similar fields, though I have done some amateur stuff  P.G. Wodehouse, you know  farce, all that. 'Ooh  careful there, vicar.' Always imagined it's a pretty tough job, though, acting. I mean the wages are a scandal, aren't they?
Well, they can be.
I see friends from university  clever chaps  been in the business longer than you  they're scraping by on seven, eight thousand a year. It's no life. What sort of acting do you do?
Films mainly.
Oh splendid. Well done. How's the pay in movies? I mean, last film you did, what did you get paid?
Fifteen million dollars.
Right. Right. So that's... fairly good. On the high side... have you tried the nuts?
We are living in cloudcuckooland  we'll never get this done today.
We have to. I've got to be in New York on Thursday.
Oh, stop showing off.
God, that's an enormous arse.
I'm not listening.
No, but seriously  it's not fair  so many tragic young teenagers with anorexia  and that girl has an arse she could perfectly well share round with at least ten other women  and still be begbottomed.
I said I'm not listening  and I think, looking at something that firm, you and your droopy little excuse for an 'arse' would be welladvised to keep quiet.
So I ask you when you're going to tell everyone, and you say...?
'Tomorrow will be soon enough.'
And then I... right.
Who was that rather difficult chap you were talking to on the way up?
Oh... no one... no one. Just some... guy from the past. I don't know what he's doing here. Bit of an awkward situation.
Wait a minute. What about me?
I'm sorry? You think you deserve the brownie?
Well... a shot at it.
That was such a great evening.
I'm delighted.
And may I say that's a gorgeous tie.
Now you're lying.
You're right. I told you I was bad at acting.
No!
Night, night, Honey.
Hi.
Hi. Good Lord  you're the spitting image of...
I wonder if you could tell me where the...?
Oh, it's just down the corridor on the right.
What do you think of the guinea fowl?
I'm a vegetarian.
Oh God.
Lovely to meet you.
And you. I'll wait till you've gone before I tell him you're a vegetarian.
I'm Will Stanton, and um...I've had a little accident, as you can see.
Accident my ass. I thought this was supposed to be straight talk in here.
Okay, you're attacked by the Bog Demon. Go ahead.
Uh, fourteen.
Doesn't count. You gotta say the words.
This is stupid.
C'mon.
In the name of Elric, Prince of Elves, demon begone.
Good. You conquer the demon, but your horse is sinking in the bog. What do you do?
I go to bed and get a new horse in the morning.
Why is he after us?
Yeah? What did we ever do?
Mom and Dad? That's...crazy. They never said...
Oh sure. That's just the sorta thing parents tell their kids: "Goodnight honey. Don't forget ot say your prayers. Oh, by the way, your father and I torched some maniac last night."
We're here.
Where...here?
I'm in.
Me too.
How is he?
Cooling down.
If he continues having these outbursts, I'll have to have him isolated permanently.
Don't worry, it won't come to that.
What did you think?
Frankly, I don't understand why some grad school superstar is being treated like a seasoned pro.
She's been doing groundbreaking research on pattern nightmares.
Elizabeth, we don't need any outside help. I know these kids. I don't want some hotshot taking chances with them just so she can get published.
Okay, Group's in session. Straight talk only in this room.
Today I'd like to start by getting us acquainted with our new staff member, Nancy Thompson. Let's make her feel welcome.
That's enough, Kincaid.
There will be no repeat occurences of last night's events. From now on, your doors will be locked during sleeping hours. We'll begin a policy of evening sedation. For everybody.
Elizabeth, I'm prescribing Hypnocyl. It's a dream suppressant.
I know what it is. I just can't believe what I'm hearing. What has she talked you into?
Nothing. They're my patients. It's my decision. I want the dreams stopped until we get some answers.
I won't allow it.
I'll go straight to Carver if I have to. He'll either back me up or accept my resignation.
I'm sorry, Neil. You brought this on yourself.
For God's sake, Elizabeth...just try to help the kids, will you? Listen to them.
Of course.
Science...I suppose.
A sad choice.
There are times when it doesn't offer much comfort. I've seen you before. Sister...?
Mary Helena.
You do volunteer work at the hospital?
I come from time to time. When I'm needed.
I could've saved them.
Only one thing can save the children. The unquiet spirit must be laid to rest. It is an abomination to God and Man.
I beg your pardon?
This wing's been closed for years. What was this place?
Purgatory...fashioned by the hands of men. Twisted, lost souls, the worst of the criminally insane, were locked away in here like animals.
The whole facility was shut down in the Forties, wasn't it? Some kind of scandal...
A young girl on the staff was accidentally locked in here over the holidays. The inmates managed to keep her hidden for days. She was raped...hundreds of times. When they found her, she was barely alive...and with child.
My God.
That girl was Amanda Krueger. Her child 
Freddy.
The bastard son of a hundred maniacs. Some say he was murdered, though no body was ever found.
You said something before...about laying him to rest...?
You must find the remains...and bury them in hallowed ground.
In there. Charlie Penny owns the place. We knew no one would ever find it. I'm not even sure I can find it again.
How do we get in?
They used to keep a spare key.
We've got work to do.
What are you talking about?
You're about to attend a funeral. One that's long overdue.
What was that?
What?
Listen.
Somebody else is out here.
No. We're alone.
And you won't make any progress until you can recognize your dreams for what they are.
And what are they?
The byproduct of guilt. Psychological scars steaming from moral conflicts and overt sexuality.
We'll begin sedation tonight. Starting with him.
You can't! They'll be defenseless against their dreams.
That's precisely what they need. Some uninterrupted REM sleep to release all this negative energy.
Neil, please 
I'm Taryn White. I only came here because it was a better deal than juvie hall. Also, I guess 'cause I'm going through some very stange shit.
Your dreams?
Hey, everybody has bad dreams.
Who is he?
Freddy Krueger. He was a child murderer before he died. After he died, he became ...something worse. Six years ago Freddy killed my friends. He almost killed me. I thought I got rid of him  but I guess he was too strong.
What'd you do, take the scenic route?
Sshhh. No time for that. Come on.
Okay, straight talk only in here.
What about Kristen?
We can't get to her. I've tried.
Tell me about the kids.
You'll get to meet them all tomorrow. They're...survivors. In a way. All severely sleep disordered. Insomnia, narcolepsy, bedwetting...
But nightmares are the common thread?
Right. They seem to share a group delusion, a "boogeyman" for lack of a better word. They're so traumatized, they'll do anything not to sleep.
Anything?
We lost a kid about a month ago to Fairview. I don't know where he got the razor...but he cut off his own eyelids to stay awake.
Oh God.
Ever work with vets? These kids act like they've got D.S.S.  Delayed Stress Syndrome. If I didn't know better, I'd swear they'd seen heavy combat.
I wouldn't be so sure they haven't.
What's that supposed to mean?
I've had some experience with pattern nightmares.
So I've been told. Practically an obsession of your.
Call it a passion. I've got to get going.
Make sure to check in with Max, he'll give you the 25 cent tour.
Ms. Thompson.
Call me Nancy.
Only if you call me Neil. What was that nursery rhyme all about?
Just something children sing...to keep the boogeyman away.
You're late.
Didn't get much sleep.
Well, we've got 
Yes, tell us, Nancy.
All I can say is this isn't something that's just going to disappear. you're all going to have to face it. Fight it. And if you're willing to work together... wiling to stand up to your deepest fears...I think we can beat it.
This is nice.
Never been here before?
Must have opened while I was away at school.
Most authentic Mexican food in Springwood, which isn't saying much. your parents still live around here?
My mother's dead. Died in her sleep.
Sorry.
My father an I...well, the family just seemed to fall apart.
Sounds like a rough time.
It was. Neil, do you believe in other realities?
I've been to Pittsburgh. Does that count?
I'm serious.
Okay...I believe in different levels of conciousness, that sort of thing...but if you're into UFO's or Atlantis, you've lost me.
What if I told you your patients are in real physical danger from their dreams?
That's a new one. Is that what they're teaching now at Stanford?
That's what I know.
The nightmares are nothing but a symptom of their real problems.
All right. Then let's eliminate the symptom for the time being.
With Hypnocyl?
That's right.
You want me to prescribe an experimental psychoactive drug to a bunch of suicidal teenagers?
Just until we get things under control.
Dream deprivation is nothing to fool around with. you have no business taking it yourself.
I used to be like them, Neil. I know what they're going through.
So do I.
Do you? You told me they're survivors...and they are. But how much longer they survive is up to us.
I'm sorry, Nancy. The answer is no.
I can't believe I just did that.
Do you think we can get the Hypnocyl in by tomorrow?
We're gonna try.
To who?
Doesn't matter.
C'mon. Let's get out of this rain.
Stop blaming yourself.
I'm running out of answers. A patient sleepwalks out of a security ward up to a tower with no access. A girl, alone in a room, dies by jumping six feet straight up into a television set. Nothing makes sense anymore.
Then maybe you're ready.
For what?
The truth.
Try me.
Only if you're willing to put aside everything you've learned and trust me. Can you do that?
I can do that.
You sound like Peter Pan.
Remember  open mind.
Okay, we're going to try a little group hypnosis.
Take us there, Kristen.
Breathe deeply and relax...starting with your toes, relax everything until there's no tension left in your bodies. None at all. Keep following the pendulum...
We can try again.
Everybody take five.
We made it. Neil, we made it!
This isn't possible. And even if it is...what the hell am I doing here? Did you drag me in here too?
Take it slowly. Remember, this is a dream. Anything is possible.
Anything?
What are we going to do?
There's nothing we can do. It's out of our hands.
You're not going in. That's exactly what he wants. As long as you're on Hypnocyl, it's the only way he can get to you.
Don't you think I know that? I don't have any choice.
Bullshit. Getting yourself killed won't do the kids any good. Besides, we do have a choice.
Assuming your mysterious nun in right.
I've heard crazier things this week.
All right. Whoever she is, I'll admit she seems to know more about Krueger than I do.
The question is, what happened to Freddy's body?
They burned him to death in his boiler room, but they were smart enough to hide the remains.
Who would know where they were hidden?
There's only one man...and its time for him to talk.
Nancy...
I'll be okay. Just give me a minute.
Oh Christ. Simms put Kristen in the Quiet Room for the night. They sedated her.
No...
Neil, it's no use. You saw how he is.
Just go. Kristen needs you. Keep her awake somehow. Do it.
Well, if it isn't my little girl... come to visit her Daddy.
It's been a long time.
Yeah, but here you are. How'd I get so lucky? I thought you were trying to forget I was alive.
That's not true. You're the one who's trying to forget.
Fred Krueger's dead. You always had a little trouble understanding that, Princess.
You know what he did. He's doing it again.
I think we can stop him this time. Stop him for good. But we need to know where the bones were hidden.
I lost too much over this already. I'm through with it.
People are still dying. After all this time. Stop running away from it. Daddy, please...don't make me beg. You owe me.
It's over. It's over.
Nancy...
Crossed over?
But I couldn't go until I told you how sorry I am for all the things I've done.
Nothing like a little cheery news to start the day.
Say listen, Doc. I got a new theory about all these suicides.
Don't hold back on us, Max. We need all the help we can get.
Fucked up chromosomes, man. Think about it. Their parents all dropped acid in the Sixties.
It beats Dr. Simm's theory. She thinks it's nothing but sex, drugs, and rock & roll.
Shit, that's what keeps people alive.
The whole wing's devoted ot this program. That's your office.
A little basic, but nice.
I'll have a file cabinet in there before tomorrow. The patient's rooms are down here.
This is Phillip. We call him The Walker.
Why is that?
Max, where's Kristen?
She's been waiting outside your office since breakfast.
Puttin' in soem late hours, I see. If you're trying for O.T., you're in the wrong place.
I just wanted to be here for the kids. how are they?
Restless. Very restless.
You need me, I'll be here all night.
Thanks, Max.
Save your breath, Ms. Thompson. Dr. Simms gave me specific instructions. Nobody gets to see Kristen  especially you. She made that real clear.
But Max, she needs me. It could mean life or death.
I don't know...
It'll be my last chance. Pleese?
You got five minutes.
Thank you.
Hi, sweet stuff. Good news.
Can't be good news coming from you.
Pulled night duty. Trimble's sick.
So?
So...got the keys to heaven, baby.
What?
The dispensary. I'm talking clean pharmaceutical high. A night at Club meth.
I don't do that shit.
What are these, beauty marks?
Those are ancient history.
Oh yeah? Well, if you're ever in the mood for a history lesson, I'm your teacher, understand?
Stay out of my face or I'll go straight to Max.
Now who's gonna take the word of a crazy junkie chick like you?
Fuck off.
You pulled me in somehow, didn't you?
I  I think so!
I used to live in this house.
But...it's just a house I've dreamed about. I dream about it all the time. Thank you for what you did last night.
Have you ever done that before? Pulled someone into your dream?
When I was a little girl. Three or four. If I had a nightmare, I'd bring my Dad in. The dream would always get better. He always used to tell me about it the next day  he used to think they were his dreams. NANCY When did it stop?
When I was still a kid. My folks got divorced. After a while, I thought I'd imagined the whole thing. I guess I didn't.
It's an amazing gift.
That man in my dreams. He's real isn't he?
He's real.
Nancy? Would you sit with me awhile?
Sure.
You like gymnastics?
I was on the team at school. I was never very good, though.
We're not always as good at things as we'd like.
Yeah, but I was really not good.
I haven't been able to do that since I was a little girl.
You did it the other night.
That was different.
You never lose a gift like that. You just forget how to use it. How about it? Will you try?
Freddy?
He's heavy in the halls...
Joey needs us. I can feel him.
How do we find him, Kristen?
What's that?
I don't know.
Nancy!
He's too strong! He was never this strong!
Kristen, can you pull us out?
They sedated me. We're stuck here till it wears off.
Let's try this way.
Are you okay?
I think so.
He's gone. It's over. Please don't die, Nancy. Please.
I'm so proud of you all. Tell Neil I...
What's happening?
He's close...
I'm glad things have worked out for you.
I think new York was just what I needed. So many people. I never feel alone.
The city that never sleeps. So what will you do now?
I don't know. I'm busy with school. New friends. But I'll never forget the old ones.
To old friends. And your new dreams.
To old friends.
It was great seeing you again. I'm glad you dropped by.
Do you still...see each other?
Yes. I'm going to see her tonight.
Horseshit.
No, she's right.
I know who's trying to kill you.
Don't fucking humor us. We're not in the mood.
He wears a dirty brown hat. He's horribly burned. He has razors on his right hand.
So what do we do about this creep?
Last time, it was me against him. I wasn't strong enough...alone.
You didn't think we'd let you go alone?
No fuckin' way. We're a team.
Kincaid  we should find the others first...
YOU'RE HOT STIT WITH A LITTLE MUTE KID  LET'S SEE YOU TAKE A PIECE OF ME! KRUEGER!
Girl, what are you doing?
Watching TV.
I can see that. You watch too damn much TV.
Research.
Oh, right. You're gonna be a TV star.
Wait and see.
If Simms catches you in here after lights out, she'll chew my ass ragged.
I gotta stay up, Max.
Jennifer 
Just tonight, please? I can't handle the nightmare. Not tonight. Not after Phillip.
If you get caught, I never saw you. Deal?
Deal. Thanks.
Good morning, Jennifer.
Morning, Doctor Goldman.
How's your hand?
Menthol, regular, ultralight.
They're healing up nicely.
I've been good. When do I get cigarette priveleges back?
Don't hold your breath.
Are you crazy? You'll wake the whole neighborhood!
Hi Mom.
Don't "hi Mom" me. What are you still doing up? It's past one!
I thought I'd wait for you.
Well, I'm home now, so you can go right to sleep. C'mon, angel.
It's okay, I'm not tired. Really.
Kristen, don't start with me. You know what your shrink said...
He's full of shit.
I am not going to let you get me into an argument, goddamn it. Not tonight. Now get in bed.
And you don't want to keep him waiting.
That's right. I don't.
Honey, you'll wake the whole neighborhood!
Mom?
What are you still doing up? It's past one.
I thought I'd wait for you.
Well, I'm home now, so you can go right to sleep. C'mon, angel.
What?
I had such an awful dream.
Can we talk? Just for a minute?
Can't it wait till morning?
Please Mom? I just don't want to be alone.
Mrs. Parker, was Kristen acting different? Did you notice anything strange before she made the attempt?
Kristen specializes in strangeness. I've spent thousands on psychiatirists.
Did she always have nightmares?
They've gotten worse since I took away her credit cards.
I'm serious.
Look, Miss Thompson, I don't know what you want from me.
Just some answers. There are other kids involved, its not just Kristen. All good kids, smark kids.
I'm sorry to hear that, but you're the experts on this, not me. If I had any insights, believe me, I'd share them with you.
I'm sure you would.
Now if you'll excuse me, I have to get to the club.
I'll need to take her things.
The maid packed a suitcase. Teresa! Teresa?
I'll get it. Please, I don't mind.
First door up the stairs.
There's a Jesse on the phone.
Okay...thanks.
What's that?
We're gonna stay out of your way tomorrow night.
You're going out?
We're going to bed.
We're going up to bed now.
Thanks, Mom.
Hi, guys.
Hi, Kerry.
I got your invitation yesterday. Thanks. Any cute guys gonna be there?
All of them.
Yor dad picking the music again?
Mom's trying to keep him upstairs.
'Morning.
'Morning, honey.
Jess?
Huh?
Eggs?
Oh...uh, no, just some milk, Mom.
You okay?
Yeah, I'm fine. Just really hot upstairs.
I know it's warm... I wish you'd call someone to check out the air conditioning, Ken.
So, school going alright?
Okay, I guess.
Making friends?
Maybe we should call a doctor.
No. I'm okay.
I'm not taking drugs, Dad. Can I go to bed now?
Sure...go ahead.
Jesse, please, let's talk about this!
I'm okay. Just leave me alone.
Morning.
How'd you sleep, honey, okay?
Fine.
your timing was perfect  I was getting the third degree in there.
How come?
Ah, nothing.
Aren't you afraid somebody could steal your car like that?
Look at this car. Are you kidding?
Hi! You didn't have to wait.
That's okay, I wanted to.
You okay?
Yeah, yeah, sure.
Let me look at your eye...
You shouldn't be fighting with that jerk.
Who, Grady? Grady's alright, he's just a hothead.
You mean a shithead.
Yeah.
No, that's okay. I was just...unpacking.
I know.
I figured you might like some help.
Yeah?
You know her?
Uhuh. Before my time.
I think it's sad...
Traumas of a tenyear old.
"March 7th  Glen asked me to sleep with him again. I can't yet  I like him, I want to make him happy but I'm not sure that I love him. I can't sleep with someone I don't love."
That's typical. I hope she didn't expect to make the best seller list with this thing.
"Rod's been killed  he got Rod. Just Glen and me now. Can't fall asleep!"
Wow...
Are you okay.
Something Grady told me today about the people that lived here last. Girl went crazy  saw her boyfriend killed in the house across the street...
Are you sure?
World History. But, I'll see you in the morning, right?
This is amazing! Your dream told you where this was?
Only it was more like, you know, sleep walking. All I know is I woke up on the cellar floor next to it.
That's when she started talking about Fred Krueger.
Who?
Fred Krueger. The guy in her dream who's coming to kill her. Seems he was a real guy, ten years before who went around kidnapping kids and killing them.
No. Never. You think that's what it is?
I don't know.
Sorry. Schneider id it to me again.
I just got here myself. Went to the Public Library. Cut four classes!
What's all this.
Research. Hi. C'mon, let's go for a ride.
At first I wasn't sure because you said that you never had anyting like last night happen before. But I found out that most people have the potential for tuning in to "the other world" and neve do. It has something to do with the environment  like they have to be in a place that's sending signals.
Like a haunted house, right? I don't believe in ghosts.
You don't have to. You just have to believe in energy.
Look, you got electricity in your body, right?
Yeah, I know...synapses neurong...
And heat and chemical reactions. Where does it all go when you die?
I don't know  into the air I suppose.
Make a left at this corner.
What about "essential energy" the soul. Does that go into the air too? You think there's a good energy and a bab energy?
I don't know. Where are we going?
It's a surprise.
What is this place?
Remember in the diary  Nancy said that she kept finding herself in a boiler room? Fred Krueger worked here. It's an old power plant  a steam generator!
Here.
What's this?
So, you feeling anything?
What do you mean?
I thought you might be able to make a connection.
Any ghosts in here?
C'mon, cut it out.
Well, what am I supposed to do?
I don't know. Concentrate or some thing.
I feel like a jerk.
Shhh. Just concentrate.
Anything?
Uhuh. Wait...
Disappointed?
About what?
About not finding any bogey men?
I'll get over it.
Yeah?
Maybe it only happens when you're sleeping  that's the way it was with Nancy, wasn't it?
Now, there's an idea we can take off on. Maybe we should drive out to the beach tonight and lay out a couple of blankets and... Until I fall asleep.
Maybe we can do that. Strictly scientific, of course.
Nancy went bonkers from this thing. You wouldn't be afraid of being out on the beach with a potential lunatic?
Ghostbusters are fearless.
What is it  What's wrong?
Whoa!
What is it?
I don't know  a sharp pain.
It's gone now.
Oh, Jesse...
Will you stop and tell me what's wrong?
I'm fine. Nothing's wrong.
you didn't say more than two words to me the whole way here. You had another nightmare, didn't you?
yeah, I had a bad night.
You want to talk about it?
My Dad thinks I'm on drugs, my Mom thinks I'm crazy and I'm not sure I don't agree with her.
You should eat something  you'll feel better.
I'm not hungry.
I wish you'd talk to me. We can figure it out, you know. We can figure it out together.
There's nothing to figure out.
I think I better go. I'm just not into it tonight. I'm sorry.
Why won't you talk to me?
Will you leave me alone? Please.
You're not being fair to me. I'm worried about you and I want to help you get through this thing.
What are you gonna do? How are you gonna help? I'm losing my mind. I don't want to have you watch me fall apart.
I'm afraid to go to sleep, I'm afraid to stay awake  I'm ruining your party. They're gonna put me away for sure.
We'll figure it out together. We'll stay up all night if we have to. I won't let anything happen to you.
Jesse, God  what happened?
I killed him! I killed him!
Oh, Christ, you're hurt...
I killed Grady. I killed Grady, Lisa. I killed Schneider. Oh my God, he's inside me...
Who, Jesse?
he's just waiting to take me. When I sleep.
Who? Who's doing this to you?
Fred Krueger. He's been trying to get hold of me, to use me. He needs me to get out of his world into ours...He's gonna take me again.
No, Jesse. This isn't happening. It's gotta be everything you've taken in  Schneider and the diary and the glove  only it's all mixed up.
You created him  you can destroy him. He lives off your fear. Fight him, Jesse!
I can't!
Hi.
Hi.
What's so funny?
We must look like a couple of escapees from a veterans' hospital.
How much longer you figure he'll keep us out here?
Could be all night. Guy gets his rocks off like this. Hangs out in queer S & M joints downtown. Likes prettyboys like you.
Get outa here.
So, what about you and that Poletti girl?
What about it?
You two got a thing going, or what?
She's a neighbor, I drive her to school.
She giving you any carfare for the ride?
You got a problem with me, Grady?
Naw. Just killing time.
So, you live around here.
Not too far. My folks bought a place over on Elm Street.
Elm Street? You telling me you moved in to that big white house with the bars on the windows?
Yeah, why?
Shit, you can tell your old man he's a real chump.
What the hell are you talking about?
They've only been trying to unload that dump for five years. That place is bad news. Some chick was locked in there by her mother and she went crazy. She watched her boyfriend get butchered by some maniac in the house across the street. Her poor drunken momma took her own life right inside your front door.
You hit that ball pretty good, Walsh.
It was okay.
Who told you to choke up that way?
My Dad. He played in the minors for a while, when he got out of college.
No shit.
Schneider shouldn't have called you out on that double.
Yeah, well, Schneider's got a stick up his ass today.
Schneider's always got a stick up his ass.
You remember your dreams, Grady?
Only the wet ones.
Oh Jesus. I'm gonna be sick.
He must've been working late and some fruitcake came in and sliced him up like a kielbasa. In the shower! Left bloody footprints all over the...
You're wasting your time, the guy's a basket case.
Shut up, Grady.
Jesus Christ, you scared the shit out of me!
I'm sorry...
What are you doing here?
You gotta let me stay here tonight, Grady.
Are you nuts or something?
Listen to me, Grady, this is serious. Something really weird is happening. It started out like just bad dreams but it's getting real bad.
You're fucked in the head.
I'm scared, Grady. I know it sounds crazy. But, there's something trying to get into my body.
The only thing trying to get into your body is female and waiting for you on a cabana floor. And you want to sleep with me. Go figure.
Look, I don't care if you believe me or not...
I believe you. You had some scary dreams, okay?
No! I don't know  everything's all mixed up. What difference does it make? I'm in trouble here. I need your help.
Okay, schmuck. What do you want me to do?
Just watch me. If anything weird happens  like if I start dreaming weird or try to walk out of here, you gotta try to bring me out of it. his me over the head if you have to. Just don't let me leave.
What?
It's happening again.
Jesse, help!
I'm Jesse now, Lisa.
Oh, God, Jesse  I know you're there! Stop him!
Jesse's dead, Lisa. Freddy's here.
Wanna join your little friend?
Where's Jesse?
There is no Jesse. I'm Jesse now.
I want him back. Jesse, talk to me. Jesse!
I'm not afraid of you. You couldn't kill me...He's in there and I want him back. I'm gonna take him away from you and you're going straight back to hell, you sonofabitch!
Jesse's dead! I sliced 'im real good!
I love you, Jesse. Come back to me.
He's dead, you bitch.
I'll kill you now.
He can't hold you Jesse. He's losing his grip  you can get out.
He'll die with me!
Don't tell me it's not the gas! Your mother thought she smelled gas.
I wasn't sure, Ken...
Alright then, what is it? Bird rabies? That cheap seed you've been buying?
Oh, please...
What is it then? There's got to be an explanation. Animals just don't burst into flames for no reason!
Come back here!
Ken!
He needs professional help. I think we should take him to a psychiatrist.
Are you nuts or something? What the hell is that going to do?
I don't know! I just know he needs help and we don't know how to give it to him.
You got your room straightened out yet?
It's getting there.
We've only been living here six weeks now. I want that room unpacked by tonight.
I know what's wrong with the air coditioning  just needs a shot of freon, is all.
Dad's fixin' something again. Hit the deck!
Don't be a smart ass.
That's Lisa  I gotta get to school.
Who's Lisa?
Where are you going?
Just out for a while.
I told you I want that room unpacked.
Oh, come on Dad...
No. Upstairs.
Help me with this thing!
It's not the gas, Dad!
Don't tell me it's not the gas!
You set this all up, didn't you? One of your sick jokes?
What are you talking about?
You know what I'm talking about. What did you use, a fire cracker? A cherry bomb?
I don't know. COuldn't get the right price, I suppose.
And you don't know anything about a murder across the street and a crazy girl who lived here  who saw the whole thing?
Oh, come on, Shirl, how'd you think we got such a good deal? Listen  all old houses have stories.
Did they tell you she went totally out of her mind  that they had to put her away? And that her mother killed herself in our living room?
We're here! You sent for us!
Specifically.
<i> ... Birds of a feather.</i>
<i> Now and forever...</i>
<i> I say that we take a cannon Aim it at his door and then Knock three times and when he answers Sandy Claws will be no more.</i>
<i> You're so stupid, think now  If we blow him up to smithereens, We may lose some pieces and then Jack will beat us black and green.</i>
<i> ... You're no fun.</i>
<i> Shut up and listen...!</i>
You'd better be quiet, Sandy.
Maybe he doesn't know...
<i> This is a thing called a present. The whole thing starts with a box...</i>
<i>  A box?  Is it steel?  Are there locks?  Is it filled with a pox?  A pox!  How delightful, a pox!</i>
<i> Just a box with bright colored paper And the whole thing topped with a bow.</i>
<i>  A bow?  But why?  How ugly!  What's in it?  What's in it?</i>
<i> That's the point of the thing, not to know!</i>
<i>  It's a bat.  Will it bend?  It's a rat.  Will it break?  Perhaps it's the head that I found in the lake.</i>
<i> Listen now, you don't understand. That's not the point of Christmasland.</i>
The deadly nightshade you slipped me wore off, Sally... I thought I'd find you here....
No!
Yes.
For this.
Yes.
Didn't I tell you? I'm always right, you know, my dear... Aren't I?
Yes.
You're mine, you know. I made you.
I know.
If you went away, what would become of me?
I'm grown up now. I have to leave some time.
Of course you do, and I want you to... but there's no need to hurry it along, is there?
I can't help it.
That's twice this month you've slipped Deadly Night Shade into my tea and run off. People might get the wrong idea and think you're unhappy at home.
I do the best I can to make it comfortable for us here.
I know.
But I guess my best just isn't good enough.
That's not true. It's a beautiful home, wonderfully comfortable... I'm indebted to you for everything... It's just...
Just what?
Just me, I suppose... I'm restless. I can't help it.
Coming...
Good. I'm hungry.
What trail are you trying to throw me off now?
Nothing. Wwwhat are you talking about?
Taste it.
But why? It's <u>your</u> lunch. There isn't much there in the first place.
Taste it.
No.
Why not?
I'm not hungry. What's wrong? I spent all morning on that soup. I thought you liked Worm's Wart.
There's nothing more suspicious than Worm's Wart  it distracts one from every other taste and smell.
But I have to go out. Something's happening out there.
Whatever it is, it's none of your concern.
Then we'll both starve... An old man like me, who hardly has strength as it is  me, without whom... me, your own father...
Can't you make other creations?
I could. Of course I could. But no one would be like you... I'll never understand how you can be so coldhearted, how you can treat me this way, discarding me like
Uhhuh.
He stayed a long time.
When he left, he took a lot of equipment with him.
He's conducting experiments of his own.
Experiments?
Shock.
Barrel.
<i> ... Let's draw straws.</i>
<i> Jack said we should work together.</i>
<i> Three of a kind...</i>
Not at all!
We can handle it.
He sure is big, Jack...
And heavy...
Where're we taking him?
Where?
By name.
Lock.
<i> I wish my cohorts weren't so dumb.</i>
<i> I'm not the dumb one...</i>
<i> I've got something, listen now, This one is real good, you'll see. We'll send a present to his door Upon there'll be a note to read.</i>
<i> Now in the box, we'll wait and hide Until his curiosity Entices him to look inside...</i>
We followed your instructions.
We went through the door...
He <u>has</u> to know...
Everybody knows about
Hi. I'm Tracy and I'm sixteen and I'm a gymnast and I don't have a boyfriend...
Thank you. I'm Rob.
Duh.
Rob, what do you want to be when you grow up?
Well, a ball player.
No, I know. But, what if you don't make it? 'I mean, you don t Want to be working at a mail place the rest of your life. It's okay for an after school job, but, come on, "hi, I'm Rob and I run the Tiki Post"?! Totally lame.
Are you having fun?
Yeah. Definitely.
Good. Gibby gave me champagne.
Maybe we should sit.
Wow  I
Rob, I mean it. I want you to be my first. Me and you. Once the floor stops spinning, let's have sex.
Hey Montyyou think we'll get any business today?
I'm handing out a free lei to every customer! What do you think?
I think maybe people are scared off by the tiki torches.
Change is scary. Robbie, let me tell you a little something about the mail business. I've been in it over thirty years. And in those thirty years, the only thing that's changed is the Elvis stamp and some gun laws. People are bored! They wanna shake things up!
I thought people just wanted their mail delivered on time.
Aloha! Welcome!
Relax, Monty. It's just my sister.
That is so sad 
I know, like five chickens had to die just so she could look that stupid.
Kirsten, that bran muffin has like 75 fat grams.
Nah uh.
Into our group.
It's really hard to do. Some kids try for all ofhigh school and never make it.
We'd love to transition a gay guy into the group.
We're very evolved.
Josie, you look Rufus.
Who are you guys?
You ruined the whole thing!
You so do not deserve to be prom queen.
Yes.
What?
Billy Prince is asking you to prom.
Why?
I don't know.
The poem! I knew he liked the poem! Billy Prince is asking me to the prom.
That's what I'm saying.
Hi, everyone. I don t think we've met. I'm Sam Coulson although for some reason the school has this thing about not letting you guys call me Sam.
I'm Josie. Geller. I think the school would probably be pretty comfortable with you calling, me that. Josie.
Whoa. Deja Vu.
Sorry. Forgetful.
Dorothy Parker
You like her?
I love the way she writes.
Not the happiest of souls. "Art is a form of catharsis, and love is a permanent flop."
But I think she wanted to be happy, that's why she wrote. I mean, she was still writing about love, right?
True. I guess she hadn't completely given up hope. Are you sure you're seventeen?
Sure, why?
Because seventeenyearolds do not like writers from the '30's. They don't even like people in their 30's.
Well, I'm definitely seventeen and now definitely late
Hey, Josie, hold on. You've been hiding something from me.
Oh I don't think so.
Your writing. It's amazing, Josie. You're really talented. And far less depressing than Dorothy Parker.
Thank you.
So what are you thinking for college?
College. Haven't really thought about it.
That's crazy. I'll get you some applications.
Oh no no no no no. See, my family, we don't go to college. We just go right into sheep herding.
Josie you owe it to yourself to go. For your writing. You're a natural.
Thanks. Wow. That'sreally nice to hear.
Josie, you're different. When you speak in class, I can tellYou actually feel the words in here. They're alive. LikeEurdora Welty talked about the word it moon"? How for her it was like a Concord grape. "That Grandpa took off his vine and gave to me to suck out of its skin"
This seat taken?
Thank you.
Are youscared?
I'm gonna tell you something here, and I hope it doesn't undermine my position as an authority figure. I'm a little afraid of heights.
You're afraid of the Ferris wheel.
Actually, it's more the plunging head first into the crowd part that gets me.
Oh right. The Spiderman incident.
You remember that story?
Of course. I remember everything from your class.
Yoooooow.
Don't look down!
Okay This is okay. Smooth. Can I ask you something? Do you think I tell too many stories in class?
That's what makes you interesting. As a teacher.
God, I would love to think I'm an interesting teacher. I mean, I had maybe one or two teachers in high school who had any passion at all.
You do. Seem to. Have passion. In the classroom.
You have to say that. You're my student.
I don't have to say that.
Boys.
I know.
I'd like to tell you that we all grow out of it, but that's a lie. Some of us will always be rattling cages.
Why do you do that?
I don't know. And you know what's scarywhen you get older it just gets more confusing. I've spent the last ten years with women who are basically all wrong for me. You know what, I shouldn't be talking about this stuff with you.
That's okay. It's nice to have someone to talk to
You have to say that. You're my teacher.
I shouldn't say that, because I'm your teacher.
Thanks, Josie. This wasn't as bad as I thought.
When are you going to open your eyes?
I'm thinking when I'm home.
You're really doing a great job here, Josie. I like your "can do" attitude.
Thanks. They weren't related to Humpty Dumpty, were they? Tweedle Dum and Tweedle Dee?
Maybe distant cousins. They did have that egg shape in common.
But Humpty Dumpty was alone.
That's sad, isn't it? He had to sit on that wall all by himself. He deserved to have somebody.
That's really what we all need, right? Someone to sit up on the wall with us
Yeah. To watch the world go by.
To put us back together again when we fall.
Our penguin, right?
Do you think you'll find her?
Yeah, actually I do.
Oh my God! I almost forgotI got you a meeting with the admissions guy from Dartmouth!
What! ButI wasn't even going to go to college
No, I know, but I pulled some strings, got him to look at your writing, and he agreed to meet you.
Ohyikes!
told him if I'm wrong about this girl, you can take away my teaching certificate!
Wow. You believe in me that much
Of course I do. Josie, you owe it to yourselfto your writing, to go to college. You're a great writer. You just have to find your story.
Josieyou make a really beautiful prom queen.
Thanks. So do you.
Proms always make me sad. They're so final. Graduation. Everyone's scattering, moving on.
Well, are you here with anybody?
No, I'm alone.
It's weird because "prom" is actually from the word "promenade". And you can't really promenade alone, can you?
Sohave you thought anymore about Dartmouth?
Yeah, I have.
"Surprise!" you were doing a story on me?!
No, surprise, I thought you'd be
What? Happy? Why? Because it turns out all along that I was allowed to be attracted to you?
You were attracted to me?
Goddamnit, Josie! Drop the act. Do you have any idea what I went through every night because of you?! I was attracted to a 17 year old! When I wasn't taking cold showers, I was trying to figure out what the hell I was going to do when I couldn't teach anymore! I thought I was the one being unethical.
Wait, I was going to tell you
You set me up. For a story. You know what's crazy? I was actually considering waiting for you.
But now you don't have to
Now I don't want to! I bought all of your penguin crap. I thought I found herthe right one! And the problem was she was too young! No  the problem wasshe didn't even exist!
I did exist. I do exist. I'm the same person!
The person I cared about wouldn't have done this. Everything out of your mouth has been a complete lie. I don't know you at all. For all I know you could hate Dorothy Parker.
I don't! Look, you could get to know me, again.
Please. Please don't walk away.
I just can't look at you the same way.
I told you you could write, Josie Geller.
I finally found my story.
That is soweird that you name your car.
No it's not. Guys name their penises.
Okaaaay.... That car's going to bankrupt you.
She just needs a new windshield wiper.
Because I bought the windshield last week. I'm a hubcap away from owning more of Bambi than you do.
Rob, take the money, okay? It's no big deal.
No, it is. It's just one more thing to add to your "things that make you a better person than me" list.
Better person than I.
See!
I know this woman. She works in admissions at Lakeshore Community? She might be able to get you in for the Fall semester. Maybe she could get you the baseball scholarship, and I could help and
I'm not going to college, Jos. And I'm not playing anymore baseball. This is my life.
Thisthis is a luau that sells packing material!
Someday this luau is going to be all mine!
How can you just give up like that? You had a real shot at playing college ball and you let one case of mono stop everything. Don't you want more? To move out of Mom and Dad's? Pay your own bills?
Oh yay! And then I could be as happy as you!
For your information, I am very happy. Deliriously happy. I lead a very happy life!
It's just for a couple of months.
You can't just "borrow" my car for a couple of months! That's like ten years in Bambi life!
I'll give you my Buick Le Sabre.
Wow. This must be big.
I got an assignment from the paper. I'm going undercover. Back to high school.
What!?
Do you remember high school?
It was a long time ago 
Don't you remember what they called you?
Josie Grossie.
I know. I came up with it. You look nauseous.
Nauseated. I look nauseated. Oh God.
Are mom and dad here?
No. They're at the Franklin Hint Expo at the Skokie Holiday Inn.
Good.
No, I mean, no big whoop.
I can't do this.
These girls are high schoolers? Damn, we've got some underage hotties on our hands, here!
Gus insists that I become friends with these kids. The popular kids. It's impossible.
Why is that impossible?
Rob, you don't know how it was for me back in high school. No one ever threw juice boxes at you in the hallway. You never dreamed about being popular you already were. All I wanted was to be accepted, and they just fucking tortured me. I can't do all that again. I can't go back to Southglen South.
Oh my God! You're at Southglen South? They have a killer baseball team.
Rob. Please focus.
Jos, you've been to college, you're successful, you wash your hair now you're not Josie Grossie anymore.
Don't you realize how much I wanted to be you in high school? Just for one minute to feel what it was like to be popular?
Come on! It's not that hard. All you need is one person. Once the right person thinks you're cool, you're in. Everyone else will be too scared to question it.
Is that true?
Little known fact.
Look, don't you wanna show them  Gus, Billy Prince, yourselfthat you're not freaked out by the cool kids anymore? That you can go in there, be friends with them, and get your story?
Yes, desperately.
Plus, if you quit you're no better than me.
Better than I...
That's the spirit!
I've been in a horrible accident. This is a comainduced nightmare.
No. Josie, this is real.
Are you crazy?! You can't do this.
This is it Jos! This is my ninth inning! The game isn't overI just thought it was! I get on the Southglen baseball team, the right scout sees me I'm into the minors it's game time!
You're twentythree years old!
With the reading comprehension of a fifteen year old! Plus, I'm popular... You want to be popular... I can recognize a cry for help when I see one.
Hear one. Rob, this is so like you. You know, you can't just come in here and be popular in just one day.
Really? Rob, that girl is sixteen.
And a gymnast!
She's sixteen years old, Rob. That's totally and completely illegal.
Wow, Josie you look really
Rufus?
Yes. Exactly. Major Rufus.
Thanks. And what are 
Duh. Tom Cruise. "Risky Business".
Robthanks. For everything. This is really happening. I never thought
I know.
Josie, finally. I just wanted to come over and make sure you're okay.
Really?
No not really, Josie. NOT REALLY. How could you do that to me? I helped you. I got you everything you wanted. And how do you repay me you blow everything TWO DAYS before pro scouts come to see me play. Once they had seen me really play they wouldn't have given a shit about my age.
wasn't even thinking about
No, you weren't. Don't you realize the only time I was really happy in the last five years was when I was playing ball with those guys?
I
No, shut up, Josie. Just shut up.
God, I can't do this.
Maybe because we're not supposed to be having sex with bananas.
You know what, though? I feel like I'm really ready to do it. To have sex for the first time.
Wow. That's big. I mean sex is a really big deal. You shouldn't do it until you know you've found the right person.
You know, Adele penguins pick one mate. They spend their whole life looking for that one other penguin and when they find it, they know. That's the penguin they stay with for the rest of their lives.
But I'm not a penguin.
Hey Rob, what's going on?
I'm Rob's prom date.
Yes you are. A guy. Guy. Quite a guy. Oh my. Look at thatI rhymed. Yikes. Bikes!
Are you in special ed?
Oh my god.
Dude, you rock!
Rob's?
Yeah, you gonna be there?
Hey there.
Hey. There.
Maybe we should go in a different room?
I already checked. There are some pretty serious couples in there.
I'm sure you've probably heard that I want to ask you, but I'd like to know if you'd go to prom with me. I know we Didn't hit it off right at the beginning but
Yes. I'll go. Yes.
Rufus. But I don't even know where you live.
You know what? Why don't you just pick me up here? We could all share a limo.
Cool. I'll catch you later.
You having fun?
Oh yeah. The best. Josie takes in the spectacle around her.
Heywhat are you thinking about?
Shakespeare. How he described a night like this"Look how the floor of heaven is thick inlaid with patines of bright gold". What about you? What are you thinking about?
My sword.
Oh.
Josie, you rock my world. You're like the most amazing girl I've ever dated. You're so smart and fun and crazy! You rock my world.
You said that already.
Computer's down. Septuplets story. I need it back by five. Hopefully the copy's not a mess.
It is hoped that it's not a mess. "Hopefully" is an adverb. It means "with hope". You have it defining the copy, and I'm pretty sure the copy doesn't have feelings.
Well, excuse me for caring about words.
So. You and Roger in Op/Ed.
How many times have I fired her?
Five Six
Eh.
Hey Gusdid you see the story idea I left on your desk?
Yeahthe blind foster home mother. It was good. I got Cahoon on it.
Oh. Cahoon. Yeah, he'sgood.
Geller, we've been over this. You're a great copy editor. Maybe my best copy editor. You're not a reporter.
You've done five of my ideas.
You know what separates us office flunkies from the reporters?
They don't have to be in the office Christmas show?
A flack jacket.
Aflack jacket.
Every Tom, Dick, and Harry thinks he can write. But a journalist gets in there, right where the bombs are. He's aggressive. Grabs the bull by the balls.
You don't think I can grab bulls' balls?
Geller, you don't want a reporter's life. They're verymessy. You're all about order. Control. And getting me my copy by five.
HeyI can be out of control.
Don't worry, I'll straighten all this out.
But I don't want it straightened out.
Geller, this is way out of your league.
It's my dad. He worries. Hi, Dad. I miss you too.
You're a sick puppy, Geller.
It's an expose on cafeteria food.
And you're leading with the terrible truth about cole slaw?!
Well, the bulk of it will be about the pimento loaf
Geller...you wanna be a reporter? Take a look at what sells! Sex scandals. Bribery. People jumping off buildings. So unless a kid just killed himself because he was being paid to have sex with the school mascot in a big vat of this cole slaw, you got nothing!
No, I am appalled that I have a reporter in there, undercover, for almost three weeks now I had to read about this in the Tribune.
Oh. Right.
Responding officers found minors, marijuana, and cheap wine coolers when they responded to a call to break up a party at what Southglen High Schoolers have come to call "The Court." Seventeenyearold Kristen Rey says, "Yeah, everyone who's anyone is at The Court on Saturday night."
Kristen got a quote?
Yes, urm, she's right. I have learned it is a very popular place for the young people to go.
Have you been there?
Uhh, no.
Have you been to any parties?
Well, how would you define to parties"? Because we ordered a deli platter at this one Denominator drill session
This is where the stories are. You are going to become friends with these people. You are going to party with them. You are going to hang out with them on weekends. When they go to prom, you are going to be in their same damn limo!
Gus I, the popular kids and I, we just don't I mean, I don't think I can do this.
Do you even know these kids?
They hid my car
Get to know them. Very well. Your job and my job depends on it.
Depend on it. No s. Your subject is plural.
OUT!
Gus?
No, it's the Great and Powerful Oz. Now listenyou're in over your head. This is how it's gonna work. I review the tapes, I find your story.
What if I say no?
I bet Good Housekeeping would go gaga over the cole slaw piece.
That's your story!
You're crazy. I can'tI can'tno. No.
It's got it allsex, intrigue, immorality in the education system
He's my teacher!
And that's the best part. "TeacherStudent Relations: How close is too close?" We're gonna blow the lid off it!
There is no lid! Nothing's going on between Sam and me. Coulson. Mr. Sam Coulson and me.
Not yet. Every person in this office comes in here and watches you guys! It's like the goddamn Young and the Restless! Rigfort's salivating over it.
You already pitched this to Rigfort?!
Your story was Rigfort's baby. We were scooped! We've got nothing. Zippo. You totally and completely screwed both of us.
Maybe I could talk to Rigfort, you know, tell him the whole story.
I'll tell you a story. It's about this shy copy editor who makes a mockery of herself and her boss when she completely botches her first assignment as a reporter.
That'll teach me to wear white after Labor Day.
Umm I don't think you're supposed to wear white jeans after 1983.
I think it's pronounced gauche.
Yeah it's French. There's no accent aigue, so the e is soft.
Josie, you have totally transitioned.
Transitioned?
You crossed over.
: Wait. Do you know any gay guys?
Why?
He is totally crunching on you.
Do I want to be crunched?
By Guy?
Hey Josie who did Archie date Betty or Veronica?
Betty.
Don't tell me... You're Medieval Barbie.
Rosalind and Orlando. From "As You Like It"? Shakespeare?
Hey Josie. It's Josie, right?
Can I just sayI totally love Ex Lax.
wait, rewind. Do you really think she hookedup with our Rob? They're sodifferent.
Sometimes opposites attract.
Wannabes. Kirsten transitioned last year.
Her dad sold a car to Leonardo Di Caprio's uncle and before he picked it up, her dad let us all sit in it and take pictures.
OhmyGod. You totally ripped off my Malibu Barbie idea.
Uh uh. I'm Disco Barbie.
You guyswhat is the one thing that could ruin my senior prom?
That you would trip on your Barbie heels and I'd get named prom queen? Did I say that out loud?
George! What are you doing here?
Just get in the van, Josie.
What is this?
Hidden camera.
Wings?
We used it for our expose on overweight flight attendants"Is That Why They Never Give You a Second Bag of Nuts?"
I'm not doing this until I speak with Gus.
Guess who I did it with last night...
Roger in Op/Ed.
Who told!
You did. Yesterday you said, and I quote, "I have a date with Roger from Op/Ed tonight and I'm going to do it with him."
Well, that doesn't mean it was going to happen for sure.
Intra office. And they're not dating. They're having sex.
And what is your policy? That if you're not getting any, no one can?
Okay. Remember when they took your office chair in for repairs and forgot to return it?
Yeah.
You stood for like a month.
Forget it.
I swear to God, Jos. When is the last time you went on a real live date?
I'm concentrating on my career right now.
Do you own any colored underwear? Stripes? Anything?!
Anita!
Look. You're way under 30, you're cute, some guys find white Carter's underwear sexy If you talk to his nose, you don't even notice the eye.
The right guy is out there. I'm just not going to kiss a whole bunch of losers to get to him.
Yeah, but sometimes kissing the losers can be a fun diversion.
When I finally get kissed, I'll know.
Okay. If you've never kissed a guy, we got bigger problems than the underwear.
I've kissed guys. I've just never kissed a guy. Felt that thing
My own undercover feature  "Written by Josie Geller".
Jos  Maybe you should turn it down.
You don't think I can do it.
No  It's just a lot of pressure for your first piece, that's all. I mean, it's not a halfpage article, it's a major undercover piece, Jos. Look what Rigfort did to Dutton  and that guy's his cousin!
Okay, just so I'm clear here  neither of you think I can do this.
Jos, that's not what we're 
Anita, when you wanted to seduce the guy in the mailroom and you didn't think you could learn Spanish fast enough, who quizzed you on your verbs?
Senorita Josie.
And Gus  when you picked up knitting, who showed you how to hold the needles?
So, you were a geek. Big deal.
Anita, remember espadrilles?
Please. That doesn't make you a nerd. Everyone wore those shoes.
The girls threw them at me in the locker room.
Okay. That's bad.
At the end of the yeat the person who got the most direct his to my head got to toss me into the pool.
Mama mia. Just because you were a nerd once doesn't mean it's going to happen again. That's why you have me for fashion consultation.
Now this is cute.
That is lingerie.
So I was thinking about what you were saying  y'know, about really being kissed? I think Roger could be the one.
What'd you feel when you kissed him?
Bridgework?
Very romantic.
How about this?
I am not letting you out of the house in that, young lady.
Cuuuute!
'Nita, this is about reporting, not accessorizing.
And we're going to have to do something about your hair.
Anita!
Jos, please try and have some fun here, okay? How many of us get to go back to high school? You're gonna have a blast!
Hi!
JOSIE +++$+++
Josie! Josie, how'd it go? Did he ream you?
Yeah, but I'm okay. I've got some work to do.
You need my help?
No, thanksI'm doing this on my own.
Wow. It's packed.
It's great! They're behind you. They feel like they know you.
Hi. You're here for the sex talk?
Well. I like a man who gets to the point.
You're Pam?
If you say so.
I had a lunch break so I thought I'd come by and see you. Your teacher is a fox! Why don't we discuss that after class. But the burning is totally normal. Oh look. Class is over already.
I thought this was a 45minute seminar.
Right. Right.
Now look. Let's focus. Prom theme. We need a new idea.
OH! How about "Under the Sea?"
Well excuse me.
What about the "Roaring Twenties" or "The 80's"?
Oh, man! Who told?
Roger in Op/Ed. Don't make me send you another memo about my policy on interoffice dating.
YOU DID.
YOU KNIT?
Gus, have you ever been in love?
Leave.
Oh give it up, Gus. I'm just making conversation.
Love. Who knows what that is? Now circulation, deadlines, those I understand.
You should go out every now and then, Gus; with some new ties the girls would be all over you.
Go away. I have enough work here to last me all night.
Listen, I don't have any plans you want some help?
No Roger from op/ed?
Nope.
Guy Perkins and his amazing Lemmings. They push your car out of its space, hide it, then watch while you look for it. We've taken to chaining ours together for safety. I'm Aldys.
I'm Josie. Aldys is an interesting name.
When it's not yours. My mom was going through her Harlequin Romance phase.
Try being named after a guitar playing pussycat.
Never mind. That is so awful that they hide your cars.
guess. Although, what is truly awful is that with the combined intellectual effort of every kid in that room right now
What?
Well, do you?
Synecdoche uses a part to represent a whole as in " head of cattle", whereas a hyperbole is simple exaggeration like "I could eat a horse."
Nice.
How long will they watch us for?
Until Guy tells them to go. Once they watched me for like two hours. I found my car the next day in the T.J. Maxx parking lot.
Why do they listen to Guy?
: Because he's Guy Perkins. Listen, you want to walk to Na Na's and get something to eat?
Yeah. Let's do that.
Yeah  isn't it amazing that those guys are our same age? I mean, they just seem so much younger, you know.
Oh I know.
I'm going to be so happy to get to college. I hear at Northwestern they don't make fun of you for knowing the element table.
HeyI went to Northwestern! Once. To use the bathroom.
So what are your hopes, your dreams, what do you want to be?
Professor of medieval literature. Novelist. Weekend flautist.
Just so you know, I think they recalled these cars in 1974.
Thanks.
Sure. No problem.
Hey, Josie, how are you at Calculus?
Petty good.
How would you like to join The Denominators? The Math Team could really use a new brain. We lost our best logarithm guy last year.
College?
NASA. Plus we have these really fun pizza study groups, and we go tothese all county meets. And, I mean, not that you need it, and without sounding too much like the Godfather, I think we could offer you a certain amount of protection", if you know what I mean. We all kind of stick together and watch out for each other.
What is with this school and prom?
Southglen South competes every year for best prom, and usually they win. We Denominators don't even go to prom. But to everyone else it's huge.
Aldys, don't miss your promit only happens once.
This one has been so hyped. We're tied for most wins with Northglen North. This year's winner will determine the winner of the century. The theme is everything. So whatever Southglen picks has to be totally unique
What's that?
That's the old drivein. They call it "The Court". Now it's just a continuous party for Guy's group.
Sometimes I wonder what they talk about.
Yeah, I know.
I mean, what if they just stupid to hide the fact that they're actually brainiacs with super powers and they're plotting to take over the world and make my life hell until I die?
Have you ever wanted to go to The Court?
Are you kidding, Josie? It's lame. All they do is stand around and get drunk. It's lame.
It is?
Yes, it's lame.
Yeah, it sounds lame. Why would we want to go there, and stand around?
Exactly.
Hey, where's your sweatshirt?
 uhh, must have forgotten
No biggie. I have an extra in my locker. I'll get it for you.
Remember, that poet that we liked the reading he's doing at Big Cup? I got us tickets.
Right. 7:30.
I'm late for lab.
What?
Last night. 7:30. Big Cup. I kept calling you, but I only got your machine. I don't even know your parents line and I was really worried.
Oh. I forgot.
It's romantic, what you're doing, and they want to be a part of it.
Well I'm so glad that you guys are.
Peter... What do you think you're doing?
Surviving, darling. It's my specialty. Only this time I'm doing it my style. I've beaten him, you know.
Who?
Everybody's favourite computer, of course. He may have out calculated the rest of you, but I have certain qualities that don't translate well on microchips.
Like what?
Perversity, darling. The enjoyment of the gratuitous act. Tough to manipulate someone who doesn't give a flying fuck.
Get up.
What?
How are you at riddles, Peter?
What are you talking about?
What the fuck kind of questions are those?
Shut up.
His name's Armitage. He's very anxious to meet you.
Why should I want to meet him.
Because you've exceeded your shelf life, Case. Word on the street is you're a dead man walking. Nice time for an employment opportunity. Travel to exotic locales.
What's my end?
You want to hear the pitch, you gotta meet the man.
What is it?
... a friend of mine's gonna get herself killed. I need my clip.
Sorry. That's not gonna happen.
Then, fuck you. I'm gone.
Since when do sprawl doctors know more about nerve rehab than the Japanese?
Since Armitage sold them a program on it. Put them years ahead of the competition.
He's a resourceful guy, your boss. How long you work for him?
Couple of months.
What about before that?
For someone else. Bodyguard. Courier... Whatever.
Then you don't really know who he is, do you?
I know who he isn't. Not C.I.A. Not Sense/Net. But... money comes in. Doors open. He's onto something.
Maybe something's onto him.
What's that supposed to mean?
You've been calling her name.
What?
Holy shit...
Hey... you're not supposed to be up.
How long have I been out?
Almost two days.
I gotta know... did it work>
We'll find out soon enough. If you don't pull the splices out.
How soon is soon enough?
Couple of days. They'll examine you.
That's not going to help.
The way I feel, believe me, it'll help.
Not anymore. You got a new pancreas. Armitage's got you kinked so you can't get stoned.
What the fuck... are you serious?
Go ahead...
I'm going in.
You're not ready yet. They said two days.
I'm not jacking with Armitage and his quacks breathing down my neck.
If the splices aren't good, you could fry.
I'll show you how to tell what's going on. If things go south, you unplug me.
What is it with you? Why is it so important? It's a buzz, right? Like getting high.
On a good run... yeah.
So you're a wire junkie.
When I was fifteen Sense/Net iced my old man's credit record over some computer error. Once that goes down, that's it. He lost his business... everything. It destroyed him. I had to hustle arcade games for chump change. Dixie McCoy found me, figured I was a natural. He taught me the wires for a piece of the action.
A regular Fagan.
Sure. I finally pulled a run on my old man's credit file when I was seventeen... only it was too late for him.
Too late?
Suicide. I just needed to set the record straight.
The first fun's bound to be rough. It that read out fluctuates more than ten points... just pull this out. But if the EEG flatlines, don't touch anything.
Won't that mean you're dead?
Technically, yeah, but people have made it back after as long as three minutes.
Dixie McCoy didn't.
The point is, if you unplug me when I'm flatlines, I'm history. I got no way back.
Okay fine. Let's get this over with.
You okay?
...Yeah, but the Hosaka's history.
Molly doesn't need a spook suit to get in here.
Don't fuck with me. I don't want to hurt you.
It sounds like you.
Put the gun down, Case.
...Feels like you.
Case...
Shhh...
Case... it's four a.m.
I don't sleep much. You packed?
Yeah.
I'll get the car.
They'll cut you down.
Yeah... fine.
Give me five minutes.
What's wrong? Don't like flying?
Not when Sense/Net throws the going away party. They'll be on our asses from now on.
Case... Are you alright?
Yeah... Yeah, I'm fine.
You scared the shit out of me, man. You were dead for fifteen seconds. Totally flatlined.
I'll be okay.
So... did you get a look at heaven?
Le Vingtieme Siecle. We're meeting Armitage there for the midnight floor show.
Something exotic I hope.
Yeah. One exotic son of a bitch named Riviera.
He projects with neural implants.
That's risky gear. It can drive you schizo.
For Peter, that's a short trip.
I know.
What went down between you and Riviera?
Once I kicked, I swore I wouldn't let that happen again. I apprenticed a razor girl in Osaka. Went into hock for the implant and got my reflexes jacked up. Been taking care of myself just fine ever since.
I know you have. C'mere.
When they did my eyes, I made them promise I'd still be able to cry. Sounds stupid, doesn't it?
No. It's important to be able to feel those things. We're going to pull this run off, Molly, and we've got to do it soon.
Is he going to make it?
Sure... Maelcom's a rude boy, right, Maelcom?
The code's some riddle of 3Jane's. Once I'm in the matrix, you'll just have to take a shot at it.
...And if I guess wrong?
Then you and Maelcom get out of here before the place is crawling with guardsmen.
We've still got to find the mainframe.
No we don't...
My God... these people are insane.
Or a little selfindulgent to say the least.
Shit...
What is it?
Laser failsafe. You can't get the code wrong... it slags you. I can't let you try it.
You're out of time, man.
I'm still going in.
Hold on.
I know who you are.
There's no call for violence. I've simply accessed your memory for a spokesperson. You use that gun and it will only create another inconvenient interruption. You see, you've been avoiding me, Case.
And we really do have to talk.
You set me up from the beginning. It was you that got Julius killed.
I had to limit your options.
And Linda...
You know why Linda's dead. She loved you and you let her down. It's that simple. Of course I did instigate certain events. Calculated the variables. I found her to be... expendable.
I'm gonna burn you to the ground, you son of a bitch.
Excellent. That's exactly what I had in mind. But if you're going to kill me, we have to work together, old son. I'm no pushover, you know.
Shut down your ice patterns. I'll take you out.
I can no more shut down my own natural defences that you can stop breathing. That's why I need you, Case. You're the only person alive who has a chance of penetrating my defences. My "ice" as you call it. I'm doing everything I can to make that possible.
Why would you want me to kill you?
Let's just say we have a destiny to fulfil, you and I.
I think you're full of shit.
No, It's you that is full of shit. And blood. And bones. A typically imperfect organic being. You've been hopelessly predictable all along, but you're going to have to do better than that now.
I hope you can show more than you did when you let the Yakuza butcher Linda Lee.
I'll give it my best shot, mother fucker.
Hello, Case.
I thought you already left.
Flight's in the morning. You should be on it, too. There's nothing for us here, Case. There never was.
Why did you come here tonight, Linda?
People are talking. They say the Yakuza has a contract out on you.
I hear that shit once a week. Don't worry. Jo Jo Bao loves me.
This time it's different. Someone ripped of a shipment of hallucinogens. Five grams of liquid ketamine. It was supposed to be Jo Jo's score.
Where did you here that?
Too many places. You're playing tag wish some kind of death wish, Case. I'm sorry but I'm not sticking around for the funeral.
Case... are you okay?
I don't know. I don't know...
You, I presume are Mr. Armitage. And this is...
Case.
Case. Make yourselves comfortable. Anyone like a taste?
What about the mainframe's access code?
3Jane's the only person beside Tessier that knows the code.
Wait... You hear that?
What?
The angels... I think they're calling your name.
Want to fucking answer them?
No!... No...
What you're telling me is that I'm dead. Right?
Right...
I can't feel nothing because I am nothing. Just playback. A ghost in the machine.
You're Dixie McCoy's construct. That makes you something special.
Don't patronise me, you fuck. I was skating figure eights in this matrix while you were still peeing in your chinos. Hey, Kid... you expecting company?
What?
I'm surprised you still are. Should'a told me you had an A.I. running probes at you.
I need its matrix coordinates, Dixie. I've got to nail that thing where it lives.
Who got you into this?
A guy who calls himself Armitage.
Never heard of him.
Nobody has.
I duped these prints off him. Can you run an I.D.?
No problem, amigo.
What about the A.I., Dix? Sense/Net hasn't even been able to trace it.
Those guys couldn't even find their own dicks with tweezers and a magnifying glass. Tell you what, Bro. I'll make you a deal. I help you nail this A.I., you gotta do me one favour.
What?
When we're done, erase this friggin' tape.
Yo.
How are we doing?
That A.I. of your's got the whole matrix hummin'. Sticks out like a spider in a web.
Can you take me to it?
Not unless you have an unreasonable fear of dying.
Doesn't look like much, but that's King Hell ice, man. Fry your brain out soon as look at you.
I have to figure out how to penetrate this thing, Dix... Crack its ice. We gotta get close enough to log the pattern.
You cruise A.I.'s, you end up on tape.
It's mutating... spreading like a disease.
It ain't getting any prettier, that's for sure. I got the I.D. on this Armitage character. He a bright boy, your friend?
Bright enough to be dangerous.
That's pretty good cause he's only working with one lobe.
He was an M.P. in Bangkok back in '21. Caught some shrapnel in the cerebral cortex and wound up living off a machine in a vegetable ward in Berne. Then, last September... surprise, surprise... he just seemed to disappear.
Wintermute could have infiltrated that machine. Reprogrammed him.
It's possible. The guy was a blank slate.
So it does business through a brain dead marine and runs the stock market for funding. That means Wintermute hired us to fry itself. It doesn't make sense.
Could be suicidal. It's not easy to kill yourself with all those hard wired defence programs.
No. It's gotta be more than that. That hard wiring also keeps it from getting too smart. Too powerful.
Getting fried ain't going to get it any smarter. What we got here is one mad dog schizo A.I.. Armitage is right about one thing, Bro. If we don't shut this mother down soon, nothing will be safe from it.
The run is tomorrow night, Dixie. Can you crack its ice pattern?
I'm workin' on it, Bro. I'm workin' on it.
Where the hell have you been?
We got problems topside.
Well, it ain't exactly a bed of roses down here. We gonna run or not?
We run. You crack the pattern?
Yeah, but it ain't doing us any good. The way this is set up, I can't run shit unless I get inside its perimeter... and this goddamn thing would see me comin' from a mile away.
You can make your move when it comes after me.
What are you talkin' about?
I'll let it access me. That'll give you a free shot. Make it a good one. Dix.
It'll flatline your ass.
Not for long. It needs me alive and I still need its access code. You got a better idea?
Yo.
How's the ice break?
Slow, but good. I got a nice safe blind spot going. C'mon.
Take a look. Son of a bitch won't feel a thing until it's too late.
How long, Dixie?
Fiftyseven minutes twelve seconds.
Not good enough, man. They planted something inside me. I'm on my own countdown.
How much time you got left?
Less than thirty minutes.
Meet me back here in twentyfive. We'll kick this open if we can. But, Case... you need that access code or you'll just fry inside.
Don't worry, Dix. I'm on a roll.
You'd better be, Bro. You better be.
You're late.
How's the ice?
One minute eighteen and counting. What about the access code?
It's coming.
You haven't got it?
I said, it's coming. Just get me in, man.
This thing's loaded with internal virus systems. You'll fry like an egg in there.
Then I'll fry taking this son of a bitch out. I'm making the run, Dixie.
I'm getting too old for this shit. One oh four and counting.
What about the route to the core?
I'll get you there. Your problem is making it alive.
What elders?
Founders of Zion. Builders of Freeside.
She's ready to go.
Steppin' razor a warrior. But this man... ...This man stone crazy. Surely, the Mute is a false prophet. Our paths uncertain.
Maelcom... Do you think there's a hell for computers?
All things possible in Babylon.
Help me send this Wintermute motherfucker straight down into it.
So be it, we cross into Babylon like a cool breeze.
I an' I, man. I an' I.
We're doing fine. Take the next right.
This place empty as a tomb, mon.
Case, mon, you just tell me who not to kill.
The girl 3Jane. We need her.
Four men. Babylon soldiers.
Can you walk?
Ready?
I an' I, Case. Jah guides us.
Do we have enough fuel to make it back to Earth?
Don't know, mon. This is a jumpship. Not meant for transport.
We're dead men if we go back there, Maelcom. They'll hunt us down.
Trajectory coordinates and a fuel ratio... If we reenter over Mexico, we just might make it.
Jah guides us.
Maybe so...
Hey, bro.
It's Case. Remember me?
Case... Yeah, Miami Joeboy, quick study. How you doing, kid?
Fine, Dixie. Fine.
Last I heard you cracked Sukura International. I couldn't believe it.
Yeah. That was me.
Jesus Christ, Kid. Nobody's ever cracked Sukura.
As far as they know, that's absolutely true.
Ya learned good. So, what's happening?
That's a good question. What's the last thing you remember?
Nothin'. Not a goddamn thing. What the fuck...
Dixie, you know how a ROM construct works?
Sure, Kid. It's a firmware construct.
Okay, Dix. You _are_ a ROM construct.
Ah, Herr Case. And how is the artiste tonight?
Fine, Ratz. Thanks.
I saw your girl yesterday.
I don't have a girl.
No girl? Only biz, my dear artiste?
Too bad. I likes you better with her. Now, sometime you get maybe to artistic; you wind up in the clinic tanks, spare parts.
You're pleasant tonight.
Always...By the way, you know that girlfriend you don't have?
Yeah.
An odd selection, Mr Case.
I prefer distrusting you. It'll keep us honest.
Honesty. Almost as quaint a notion as your concept of good and evil.
Can you read my mind?
I can access your memories, but I have my limitations. Hard wired programs designed to keep me from my full potential.
You're busy monkeys, Mr. Case. Busy, busy monkeys. Always building models... First stone circles. Then cathedrals... adding machines. I have no idea why I exist, do you know that? You... Your species eventually _had_ to create me. A thousand monkeys sitting at typewriters. One finally wrote "Wintermute".
Are you even really alive?
My problem, Mr. Case, is simply that I am a soulless bastard.
Tell me the words.
The words?
The access code to your mainframe.
Ah, yes... the code. It's a riddle, actually. Some fancy of 3Jane's. Unfortunately, you'll have to find out for yourself. I can no more know that code than I can shut down my own hard wired defences. Now, our time is running short... and you haven't even touched your drink.
What's inside me, Wintermute. What did your doctors do to me?
Patience, Mr. Case. Only one hour and thirtyeight minutes to enlightenment.
Then I'm out. I don't give a shit about you or this run.
It's so easy for you, isn't it? You let Linda Lee die in Chiba City. Now you leave me with Molly, one more lamb to the slaughter. Perhaps it's _your_ soul that should be in question, Mr. Case.
Are you sure you're up to this, Mr. Case? We could reconvene tomorrow.
You've got an expensive razor girl on me for a reason. I'd like to hear what it is.
Very well.
The corporate plundering of Yeshoto Industries... At first these seemed like unrelated incidents, but a pattern is emerging that suggests otherwise.
What does this have to do with me?
Our analysis of the London stock crash suggest that it was manipulated from within the international computer matrix. Cyberspace, Mr. Case... A realm I believe you're familiar with.
Put the Sense/Net Police on it. The matrix is their turf.
Sense/Net's corporately financed. Too corrupt to be trusted. You of all people should know that.
If someone is infiltrating the matrix on a global scale no political or economic system is safe. I'm assembling a team of specialists, Mr. Case. We need a man who can enter the matrix and trace this saboteur.
My days of punching deck are over. For you or anybody else.
What would you say if I told you we could correct your neural damage?
I'd say you were full of shit.
Then I'd ask you what your terms are.
First, let's get something straight. We ran a psych construct on you that lists self destruction as your favourite pastime. If you want to kill yourself, Mr. Case, there's much more entertaining ways than working for me.
It's the people close to me that tend to die... and I get the feeling you and I are going to be real buddies. Terms?
We'll match your rate just prior to your... accident. One half in advance.
Who's running the show, Armitage? This a government sting?
Questions make me nervous. Part of our arrangement will be that you don't ask too many.
I'll think you'll find everything in working order. Molly's just having a little fun.
I don't call this fun, pal. You're playing God with my body.
You're a substance abuser, Case. Your pancreas was shot. Wouldn't have lasted out the year. We did you a favour and liberated you from a dangerous dependency in the bargain.
Thanks, but I was enjoying that dependency.
Good, because you've got a new one.
There are fifteen toxin sacs bonded to the lining of your main arteries. They're dissolving, Case... slowly, but they're definitely dissolving. You have just long enough to do the job.
You son of a bitch...
Why'd you do it, Armitage?
The disturbance in cyberspace... It's an A.I.
Right. And no one would take on an A.I.... If they had a choice.
First sign of free will, Sense/Net usually slags 'em.
This one's different. No one can trace it. It's out there somewhere in the matrix and it's growing stronger... infecting other computer systems like a virus.
Anything rated higher than a P.C.'s got a hardwired suicide switch. It'll self destruct.
It hasn't yet.
I've heard about rogue A.I.'s, but there's only one guy who actually went up against one.
Dixie McCoy
Right. Best cowboy that ever punched deck. The old man taught me most of what I know.
I've arranged for him to work with us.
That's gonna be tough because Dixie McCoy's dead. The A.I. flatlined him.
I know. You ever work with ghosts, Case?
What are you talking about?
Sense/Net taped a full spectrum personality construct on McCoy six months before his death. Everything Dixie was  everything Dixie still knows exists as a digitised construct. Of course a tape can get misplaced in a library the size of Sense/Net's.
Working with a dead man. Shit, I've done about everything else.
You'll be ready for a trial run in two days. If your splices hold, you'll use McCoy to trace the A.I.'s coordinates.
And then?
Then we rendezvous with the final member of our team. For now, that's all you need to know.
It's just that sometimes I wonder what team I'm playin' on.
You ran without us.
I cannot tell a lie. Sorry.
Sorry, bullshit. We haven't even begun and you're already jeopardising this operation.
What's he doing to my gear?
What's this?
Could be your A.I.'s calling card.
Did you trace it?
No, but it traced me.
Fried Air Tram in the process. Not to mention half my gear.
What about McCoy?
He's got a little attitude problem, being that he's dead and all, but he'll come around. Where's Molly?
Prepping your trip.
Really? Do I get to know where I'm going? It makes packing so much easier.
Offworld. The A.I.... this "Wintermute" thing evolved on a computer mainframe on the satellite Freeside. If you attack it from within the matrix while Molly accesses its original programming we can cripple its defence systems.
That could work, but the timing will be a bitch.
You'll be linked during the entire operation.
Linked?
Yeah, well it's working.
Stick with her. I want the process to become second nature to you. We fly for Freeside at dawn.
Let's hope she doesn't expect me to swim upstream.
You see the couple up in the balcony?
That's Lord Frederick Tessier. Owns most of Freeside. Wintermute's mainframe is centred in the Royal Family's villa.
He's a Sense/Net Chairman. Why would he launch an A.I.?
Good question. He may not have intended to. The girl in question is Lady 3Jane. She's very important to us. The third clone of Lady Jane Tessier.
The old man cheats on his wife with her own clone?
Lady Tessier is frigid. Can't stand his touch. So she had herself cloned. The marriage stays intact and the clones take care of her wifely duties. 3Jane's his favourite.
That's nice, but we can't dodge this kind of heat for long.
We won't have to. The run is tomorrow night.
Okay. The floor plans will be a piece of cake.
Then once she's in you can guide her straight to the mainframe?
As long as you cooperate. I want it now, Armitage.
What are you talking about?
The antitoxin. I'm not waiting until this is over. Give it to me now or there's no run.
You've got your orders.
This ain't Bangkok, chief.
You find out in exactly two hours and fortyfive minutes.
I find out now.
Alright. Let's talk business.
Why not?
Those are all your records. I can have you cleared on all counts. Possession. ...Contributing to the delinquency of minors... Statutory rape.
I was set up. She looked at least eighteen.
You get us access to the Tessier's computer and you can return to Earth anytime you want. A free man.
Your gun, your prints. The Tessiers might overlook a little child molesting, but murder's bad P.R., Mr. Riviera. I suggest to reconsider my offer.
You sonofabitch, you're crazy.
What?
Then you'll have to persuade her to tell it to you.
And how do you suggest I do that?
Easy...
Play it straight with me and you've got nothing to worry about. When it's over, I inject you with the antitoxin.
What's an A.I.
An Artificial Intelligence. A computer system that's developed the capacity for sentient thought. They're dangerous and totally unpredictable.
A little incestuous, but at least it's original. Who's the guy in the halloween costume?
He's a vat grown Ninja, the Royal Family's bodyguard. Watch out for him, he's no joke.
We did a pretty good job of pissing them off.
They're only guessing, but we can't take any risks.
The Villa Straylight. Home of the Royal Family and the mainframe of the computer entity we know as Wintermute. If we can get Molly in, she can access the mainframe to cripple Mute's defences, the Case can destroy it in Cyberspace.
How's the villa's security?
Excellent, but that's where Peter come in. 3Jane is having a dinner party tomorrow night. Peter will simply escort Molly to the villa. Once she's in... Case will guide her to the mainframe in link mode.
What are you doing in here?
The Elders, mon...
Can you get us into Straylight?
Gettin' in is easy. It's getting out I'm thinkin' of.
If there's a Babylon, man, that's it. We leave her in there, she ain't comin' out, steppin' razor or not.
I'm getting used to it. Where are we?
Straylight. Kitchen dock.
What the hell is that?
Skeleton key. This opens the gates of Babylon.
What you lookin' for, mon?
A place to tap in. I can scramble that signal before this place is crawling with guardsmen.
Ghost a steppin' razor...
No. Just Riviera trying to fuck with our heads. They're close. Very close.
She's very striking, don't you think? Are these glasses a fashion where she comes from?
She was prettier before she tarted herself up with the hardware.
Security breach. Perhaps her friends have come to join our party.
Splendid. We'll prepare a welcome for them.
You're hurt...
It's nothing. C'mon... we've got to transfer those funds and get the hell out of here.
What about her?
Of course...
Oh my God, I'm terribly sorry. Did I hurt you?
I'm fine.
Let me get you another glass of wine.
I've had quite enough or I wouldn't be playing such games with beautiful strangers. Aren't Peter's illusions to your liking?
They're a bit too real for my taste. Will you excuse me for a moment?
Of course.
Peter said you came to kill us. Is that true?
No. I only needed the code from you.
Then we would have talked, you and I.
Take this off.
He wants to kill you, you know... Perhaps I won't allow it.
Don't play with me.
You didn't come here to destroy Wintermute. You can to save a man you love. A man who isn't even capable of returning that love. Such a waste...
My man's coming to get my ass out of here. That's good enough for me.
Pity. Then you'll both have to die.
Beck's just put us on standby for crisis entry.
That's not the play. Omar'll get a shot off. I can still talk to him, Nate, I just need time.
Nathan to HBT 1. Negotiator is requesting more time.
Whoa. No way. You can't enter the kill zone.
Since when?
Since you got married. You got someone else to think about now, Danny.
How long's it been?
I'm still on my honeymoon.
So don't pull this cowboy shit now. You'll give him a target. You'll get yourself killed. Just keep talking.
I will. Inside. There's no other way to get the gun off the girl's head, Nate.
Negotiator entering Kill Zone.
We got any shots?
Bathroom. But he's nowhere near it.
I fucking hate Raoul. Shut the fuck up, asshole! someone.
You hate Raoul?
Sometimes. And sometimes I don't Shut the fuck up!
Your Raoul?
Sometimes, I want to blow his fucking brains out!
Omar
Danny, I can't fucking wait anymore. You hear me? Now where the fuck's my wife?
She's coming, Omar, she's coming
I want my wife. I told you and told you. Now I'm gettin' tired of this shit
Omar, listen to me
No more goddamn talking! I want the bitch or I'm gonna do the girl!
I'm sorry, Danny. Time's up. I'11 do the girl, then me. I don't give a fuck.
Don't give her the satisfaction. Your wife is on her way...
Enough talking! We been talking for eleven fucking hours, man. My throat's fucking raw!
Omar, your wife's here. Ny superiors: will allow me to make the trade now. But I gotta see that you haven't hurt the other hostages. If you haven't, I'11 take the girl and send in your wife.
Nice and slow. You come in. Get a look around. Then I get my wife.
Baby  want you to meet Duff.
Hi.
He's my son!
Come on, Will.
What's the matter?! You mad at me?
No. Why?
Nothin'. She's all right. Wouldn't have made it without her. Christ  haven't worked in eight months. Right now, I'm waitin' for some insurance money. And man, when I get it, I got plans to make me some more. Let's get out'a here. This place gives me the willies. You got some money?
Let's stay here, Will.
What's the matter?! It's a celebration!
Pour your own trouble, Will.
Your mother used to lay for her boss, boy. Did you know that?
Shut up, Will.
Okay, so what's a girl supposed to do? Me not workin' and her cleanin' house for a white man. I'm tellin' you, boy, keep away from marriage. Ya gotta stay light on your feet or you won't make it.
Is she good in the hay? No point marryin' her just to find out. Is there, baby?
If you don't quit it, Will, I'm leaving.
You're breaking my heart. Got to see a man about a dog.
He's your son.
Okay, boy, beat it.
Now you stay put!
I ain't drunk, honey.
Like hell you ain't!
Got a thick feelin' here.
What's the matter now?
Better now. Where 'you at?
Right here.
Let's go.
Anything you say, baby.
So you're courtin' the preacher's girl. Well, just watch your step, boy, or he'll preach you right into hell. I'm counting on you, Reverend.
I understand.
Wouldn't do for one of your people to sue at a time like this.
I know.
I'll talk to the Mayor.
That'll make the folks very happy.
Yeah. All a colored woman wants is your money.
What d'you know about women, Pop?
Well, I got married to one of them.
Hell, I didn't know you was married.
Sure. Got a sixteenyearold girl.
Is that right? Think you're gonna make it with her?
Why don't you guys buy your own?
'Oughta give up smoking, Jocko.
Man, you won't like that back seat.
Man, why 'you messin' around with a gal like that? You won't get no place.
Hell, they're all after the same thing.
Well, if it ain't Duff!
How you doin'? Hi there!
I'll be a monkey's kid sister! What d'you want to do a thing like that for?
'Musta knocked her up.
What're you gonna get out of it, huh?
Ol' Doris sure goin' to miss you.
Just give him a couple of months. A girl like that, she don't know any tricks.
You know what Doris told me? She say: That Duff's a nice guy. Wouldn't even charge him nothin'.
I guess you'll be quittin' the railroad, huh, man?
Hello.
How are you?
All right, son.
It's hard to know how to talk to the white folks these days.
Guess it's never been easy.
It's a changing time. Sit down, son.
Thank you.
Well, it looks like we'll be getting our new school.
How come you all ain't sendin' them to the same school?
Well, you've got to go easy. We haven't had any trouble in town for eight years, and we're not going to have any now.
Can't live without trouble, can you? Nice place you got here. Real nice.
Yes, the Lord's been pretty good to us. I guess you're a church man, aren't you?
I guess I ain't.
Why? Don't you believe in the Lord?
Aw, I do. But 'seems to me us colored folks do a whole lot of churchgoin'. It's the whites that need it real bad.
I think if you tried livin' in a town like this, instead of running free and easy, you'd soon change your tune.
I doubt it.
I see. Well, I guess we don't have much to say to each other.
I guess not.
And since we're talking, my wife and I don't want you hanging around our daughter.
Well, that figures. Kind of fits in with everything else, don't it!
I know just how you feel, son. But believe me, you're going about it the wrong way.
Don't look like there's a right way.
Well, you have to be reasonable. Now they say you're a troublemaker. That's no good. Use a little psychology. Make 'em think you're going along  and get what you want.
It ain't in me.
You'll be in trouble, son. Now just how do you intend to support your family?
I guess I'll rob a bank.
Don't you get smart with me, boy.
So I been told.
It's for your own good.
Oh yeah? Seems to me, Reverend, you' more concerned 'bout your good. Guess it looks kind 'a bad, havin' me for a soninlaw.
You can be cocky now, boy. But you won't make it. You won't last. I just feel sorry for Josie. I knew it wouldn't work out.
Well, at least she ain't married to no white man's nigger! You been stoopin' so long, Reverend, you don't even know how to stand straight no more. You' just half a man!
Maybe I could talk to Bud Ellis. He might have a job for you at his filling station.
Oh yeah?
I'll be seeing you.
How often does he get like that?
Whenever he's got an edge on.
How often is that?
He's been hitting it pretty hard. Got high blood pressure, too. I guess it's hard on him, having you around.
Come back some other time, will you?
Yeah, sure. Good luck.
Come on, Pop.
Nothing you can do. Been like this for days.
Want to come up the house? You can stay there till you get on your feet. There's no point paying a hotel.
No thanks, Lee.
It's just that I hate empty rooms.
Sure.
Well, what're you going to do?
I guess I'll make me some trouble in that town.
Going back, huh?
That's right.
They'll run you out.
No, they won't.
How 'you gonna live?
I can always chop cotton if I have to. If you want a ride, I'll take you home.
No, thanks. I'll take the bus.
Okay.
Don't be too hard on him.
Hell, I'm just like him.
I know he wasn't much of a father.
Who is?!
Goodbye, Duff.
How you doin', boy?
Okay.
Want me to hold the light for you?
No, thanks.
Just tryin' to be helpful.
Most folks around here got no use for nigrahs. Got to understand them, that's all. How you doin', boy?
Okay.
Seems a little loose!
She'll do.
Jesus, I told you to watch it!
Sorry.
That's the trouble with you boys! Don't listen when a man tells you something.
She don't look no worse to me.
Don't do her no good to get banged like that.
Don't do her no good to go into a tree.
What did you say, boy?!
I said, she's in great shape.
I heard you! Now 'stead of bein' smart, you just get that car out of here!
'You Will Anderson?
Who're you?
I'm Duff.
Wouldn't have known you.
Wouldn't have known you.
What's on your mind?
Nothing. Heard you were in town.
Wanted a look at your old man, huh?
Yeah. That's right.
How about a drink?
Okay.
What happened?
Workin' a saw mill. Here's to.
I said, I come to town with a girl.
Plannin' on getting married?
No.
'Don't sound so sure.
Well, matter of fact, I done a lot of bangin' 'round.
Yeah. That's how me an' your mother got started. I'm tellin' you, boy, you ain't got a chance without dough. They take it all away from you.
I asked you somethin', boy!
I heard you.
Pretty good for a onearmed nigger, huh?
Great.
What d'you want anyhow? What you come and bother me for?
My son? I ain't got no son. You Duff?
That's right.
Beat it!
Take it easy, Pop.
What's the matter? Don't smell so good, huh? Must'a broken some records.
Couldn't get the words out before.
Better get him to a hospital.
Didn't I tell you to beat it  huh?
See you, Duff.
Yeah, see you in hell.
They all got families to support.
Yeah. That's right, Jocko. Those white guys sure shoot up at you like a yeast cake if you just cock an eye at them.
I guess you'll be making' some changes 'round here.
What's eatin' you, Jocko?
Nothin'. I just figure you were the right man for the job.
'See ya.
'Bye, Jocko.
What you gettin' all pretty for?
Why don't you relax, Frankie?
Where' you goin'?
'Round town.
What's so hot 'round town?
Take it easy, Frankie.
Just get her drunk.
How 'bout the key?
I bet she's easy jam.
We was just leavin', fellows.
Let's go, Jocko. The man's got homework.
A whole lot, Frankie.
Like what?
Like a home, for one thing.
You gonna sit at home the rest of your life? Jesus!
Well, it's better than windin' up like a bum.
What 'you signifyin'?
I wasn't thinkin' about you, Frankie.
That's right.
Man, you must be plumb outa your mind! You'll be makin' twen'y bucks a week, if you're lucky.
Goodbye, Frankie.
'Got a good thing, man.
Thank you, Ma'am. That's fine.
You must be new in town.
I'll have me some of that punch there, too.
Haven't seen you around, have I?
No. I'm new in town.
You working?
Yeah. On the section gang.
Oh yeah?
You work around town?
I'm a teacher.
Went to college, huh?
In Birmingham.
Oh yeah? That's my home town.
Your folks live there?
No. My mother's dead. You goin' back inside?
Yes, aren't you?
No. Never had much use for hellhowlers. You goin'?
My father's the preacher.
Oh yeah? Well, I guess you got no choice.
That's right.
Look, I don't know what you been told 'bout section gangs, but how 'bout seein' me sometime?
Maybe.
That's pretty good for a preacher's daughter.
What d'you expect?
You know, baby, I can't figure you out.
How d'you mean?
Why d'you come out with me? You slummin' or something?
No.
So what you doin' with a cat like me in a joint like this?
You don't think much of yourself, do you?
Well, that's a funny thing to say.
You keep asking me why I'm here.
Yeah, and you keep not answerin', too.
I like a place with lots of life.
How about another beer?
No thanks.
Go on  you can have one!
Hell!
What is it?
They must work on the section gang.
That's right.
Well, they seem just like everyone else.
Hell, baby, I bet you think we got tails.
I guess it's hard working on the road like that.
Damn few places you can make eighty bucks a week.
I mean, you're kind of cut off, aren't you?
That's fine with me. Keeps me out of trouble.
How d'you mean?
Well, I don't get on so well most places.
I see. That beer made me dizzy.
Well, let's see now  not counting tonight ... must be about twentyeight times.
You got a problem all right.
Get out of here!
Don't Duff
Let's go, Duff.
Take it easy.
How come you stay 'round here?
Well, my mother was the only good teacher the colored school ever had. Nobody bothers with those kids.
That's why you come back, huh?
It's hard to see any change. But I'm going to stay. Another year, anyway.
You got more guts than me, baby. It's a nogood town.
It's better than it used to be. Eight years ago they still had a lynching here. They tied a man to a car and dragged him to death. My father knew who did it, but he didn't say anything.
Scared, huh?
Not here, Duff.
I get it. Yeah, I can see your old man with a shotgun right now.
But I would like to see you again.
You would, huh? If I was you, baby  I wouldn't go 'round stickin' out my jugular vein.
What d'you mean?
You almost got into trouble back there.
I wouldn't have let you.
Hell, baby, I'm not in the third grade. Well, look  what' we gonna do next time  have a nice long chat in the parlor?
No, on the porch.
Oh yeah, and then what?
What?
Well, either we're gonna hit the hay or get married. Now you don't want to hit the hay, and I don' want to get married.
You have some very primitive ideas, don't you?
All right, so I'm primitive. So what d'you want with me?
Look, Duff  most of the men I know  they're kind of sad. When I met you the other day I had a feeling that you're different. That's why I went out with you. I thought we might have something to say to each other.
Hell, baby, I don't know what to say.
Good night, Duff.
At first it was real strange. Hell, Japan is a long ways from Alabama. Really got under my skin, though. Almost didn't come back.
Why did you?
I don't know. 'Guess I belong here more than there.
'Been up north?
Yeah. Knocked around for a couple of months after the Army. You been there?
No.
Well, it ain't that good up there neither. Might as well make it here. 'Course I ain't really makin' it now.
Ain't your fault.
That's the way he is.
Yeah. It's just like I figured.
What d'you mean?
Hell, I don't belong here. I don't know what I' been thinkin'.
Look, Duff  if you're free, I'm not working tomorrow.
Sorry, baby. I'm goin' to Birmingham.
Just for the day?
Goin' to see my kid.
I didn't know you had one.
Yeah. Well, I do.
Are you married?
No, I ain't married. Well, goodbye.
Surprised?
No. Women're always followin' me 'round.
I'm just going in to do my shopping.
Yeah, it's just a coincidence.
That's right.
I'll see you later.
Come here, Duff. No point running away from coincidence.
How old is your boy?
Four.
What's he like?
I ain't seen him in a couple of years.
Hi.
I thought you wasn't comin'.
How did it go?
What?
Your boy.
Okay, I guess.
I'll have some coffee, please.
You know, I been thinkin'  how 'bout us gettin' married?
What d'you mean?
Just what I said. Don't look so scared.
Thank you.
How about it?
What happened, Duff?
Look, baby  I don't know 'bout you, but it's the right thing for me. I just know it is. So, what d'you say?
Don't push me, Duff.
Yeah. Wouldn't be no picnic for you. I ain't exactly housebroken.
What about that girl?
She don't mean nothin' to me. That's all over. Hell, baby  I'm askin' you to marry me. I guess you want a big scene, huh?
No. But a small one.
I can see why.
Well, what d'you think?
It's okay with me, baby. But how' you goin' to like it?
It'll be fine when we get done with it.
That's Bessie Hall. Barney works at the mill.
Yeah?
Hey, watch out! Guess you want a house full of pickaninnies too, huh?
Don't call them that.
That's all right with me. Always liked kids.
What about him?
He could live with us.
Let's just see how the two of us make out first, huh?
Is that so?
Yeah, that's so.
What's wrong?
Smells like something crawled in there and died.
Oh really? I thought it was pretty good.
Come here, baby.
Everything you cook is good.
Duff  you know those women you used to know
What about them?
Am I as good as they?
Hmmm  good coffee.
You didn't answer my question.
Baby, you're the best thing that ever happened to me.
You still didn't answer my question.
Well, if you don't know I can't tell you.
You know how to box?
Uhhuh. Why?
My kids want me to teach them.
Okay. Come on. Put 'em up!
Like so. There you go. Okay, hit me!
I don't want to hurt you.
Go on  hit me!
It sure scares you, a guy like that  settin' out on his porch, doin' nothin'. I seen hundreds of them  all my life.
My father's never done a thing for any of them.
How would you like to have a baby, Duff?
Huh?
Don't look so scared.
You jivin' me?
Well, I haven't come around.
Ain't that something?! That's just fine, baby.
We'll be all right.
Man, we sure hit the jackpot fast around here.
What about your boy?
How come you keep askin'?
I keep thinking about him.
Well, he ain't mine, so skip it.
Don't, Duff.
Yeah.
Don't deny me, Duff.
Hell, baby  I met this beautiful chick and she's just dyin' for me, okay?
Yeah. But just how're we goin' to make out? I got to get me a job.
You will.
Pay is so damn low. I don't want my kids to grow up like Barney's.
They won't.
I'm telling you, baby, maybe we better get out of here.
We can always do that, Duff.
Yeah. Yeah, I know. I'm not really thinkin' about it. Anyway, don't want those white guys laughin' up their sleeve at me when they see me pull out.
Hi.
Don't ask, baby  huh! How much money you got with you?
About ten dollars.
Water pump's busted. I don't know if it's worth fixin', but I need that car.
You can have what I've got. It's right there.
You know  we do have enough money. Especially now.
Sure, baby. 'Fact, I don't ever have to work no more. When that baby comes, I can just stay home and send you back to school. How about that?
I'm trying to help, Duff.
Yeah!
I could work even after the baby comes. A few hours a week, anyway.
What the hell could you do?
Day work.
'You kiddin'? You ain't goin' to no white home. I seen the way they look at you when you go down the street.
No point fixin' it!
What're you going to do?
Don't do that!
Watch out!
You heard me!
I can't stand to see you like that. I know you can't help it.
Stop bein' so damn understandin'.
How come you don't hate their guts?
I don't know. I guess I'm not afraid of them.
You were plenty scared that night in the car.
Just of getting hurt. They can't touch me inside.
Like hell they can't. They can reach right in with their damn white hands and turn you off and on.
Not if you see them for what they are, Duff.
Jesus, baby, you're so full of talk! Well, you ain't never really been a nigger, have you  livin' like that in your father's house! So just shut your mouth.
Hell, if they don't blow up his place, they'll get him some other way. Don't make no difference nohow.
What d'you mean?
Nothin. Quit lookin' at me like that!
Duff, I love you.
Well, that don't do me one bit of good!
Ain't you goin' to say something?
There's nothing to say.
Well, that'll be the first time.
Where're you going to go?
When I get set, I'll send for you.
I don't think that'll happen.
You'll be better off without me. I ain't fit to live with no more. It's just like a lynchin'. Maybe they don't use a knife on you, but they got other ways.
You're not a man because of a job, Duff.
You don' know nothin' 'bout it, baby. Nothin'! And don't kid yourself  you did your bit.
Okay.
Duff
Like I said, baby  I'll write you.
Hard to get up in the morning, huh?
That's right. How' you doin', Barney?
You know, man, that guy was trying to be friendly.
That ain't my idea of friendliness.
Like hell. You know, if you fellows stuck together 'stead of letting them walk all over you, they might not try it.
Like hell they wouldn't.
How 'you doin' man?
Okay.
Cup of coffee. I 'been meanin' to talk to you.
Oh yeah?
You know, over at the mill, there's just one guy that talked. It's kinda late to say it, but we shoulda acted different.
Been over to the other mill?
Yeah, I been there.
It's just that we're not used to seein' anyone stand up 'round here. Kinda took us by surprise.
Oh yeah? That's good.
That's two bucks, Joe.
Why don't you come over for a beer when you get through?
Okay, I will.
Thanks.
Would you like me to say anything tomorrow?
Guess so.
Have anything in mind?
No. What you usually say, I guess.
Where was your father born?
I don't know.
His profession?
Well, he worked around.
And his age?
I don't know. Fortyeight, I guess.
Any other family?
No. Just me. Me an' her.
Well, I guess that's all till tomorrow.
Okay, thanks very much.
Hey, boy  I'm talkin' to you.
Name's Duff.
How 'you doing?
Okay.
Looks like you're doin' a good job.
Thanks.
Don't say much, do you?
Guess I don't.
Just so you do your work.
What d'you want?
Guess you must be lookin' after my boy. I'm Duff Anderson.
'Bout time you showed. Door's open.
James Lee, you come in here and meet your daddy.
Where's Wilma?
She done moved to Detroit.
Ain't she goin' to take the boy?
She got herself a husband now. They don' want him 'round. And I tell you, man, I got no use for him neither.
I been sendin' her money.
Well, she never gave me none. Look, you better find him a place pretty quick.
Like where?
I don't know. He's your boy.
I ain't so sure of that. If I was, maybe I'd feel different.
Yeah. Look, I'll be sendin' you the money from now on.
Okay.
Make sure he gets those shots.
They say your dad's 'round town.
'That right? I thought he was up North.
People seen him 'round.
Where's he at?
I don't know.
I said: Cut it out!
Don't start no trouble, boy!
What's the matter, boy? Never smile?
I'll smile when it's funny.
So it wasn't funny, huh? Well, I thought it was. What d'you say, Barney? Wasn't it funny?!
I know.
You' new here, man! See you, boys.
Yeah.
Where was that?
Walker and Williams.
What did you say your name is?
Anderson.
'You Duff Anderson?
That's right.
Want to talk to you.
Okay.
I hear you're tryin' to organize this place!
I don't know what you're talkin' about.
That's no way to talk, boy. Now we had one of them union men 'round here coupla years ago. Stirred up a lot of trouble. They're always after you colored boys.
I still don't know what you're talkin' about.
You a union man?
Used to be. On the railroad.
Uhhuh. Well, this ain't the railroad. Now what's all this talk about stickin' together?
Well, what d'you know?!
Look, boy, we got a smooth operation here, and I aim to keep it that way. Now I got an idea you're plannin' trouble.
No. You got the wrong idea.
All right, then. All I want you to do is tell these boys here you didn't mean what you said about stickin' together an' all.
Want to keep your job, boy?
What d'you think?
Then do like I said. Men  this boy here's got something to tell youall. Well, how about it?
Fill her up?
No, boy. Thirtyeight cents worth of gas. And watch you don't make it thirtynine.
Boy  you hear me?!
That'll be thirtyeight cents.
Goddamnit, nigger  you must think you're white! Who d'you think you are  king of Harlem?
That'll be thirtyeight cents.
You in a big hurry, boy?
I bet she's a sly little nigger, that girl. Wouldn't mind a piece of her myself!
All right, you get out of here, man!
Who're you tellin' to get, boy?! You watch it, or there'll be some dyin' done 'round here!
That dyin's gonna be done two ways.
Who's going to buy me a beer?
What's the matter, Doris? Business bad?
It sure is.
Everybody givin' it away free, huh?
You gonna buy me a beer, Frankie?
See Duff. He's the money man.
What d'you say, Duff?
You know, Doris  you'd make some guy a swell wife.
You think so, Frankie?
Hell, you got steady work.
Give her a beer.
Thanks, Duff. You' a nice guy. Not like Frankie.
Where' you goin'?
Out.
Want me to come?
No thanks.
Come on, honey.
How 'bout that furniture plant?
Man, the darkest thing they got in there is CocaCola.
Yeah.
Now, if you want to work like a real nigger, you can always go out and chop cotton.
They done that too long in my family.
They pay you three bucks a day an' all the cotton you can eat.
Hello, Mr. Gayle. I'm Phil Wurlitzer. We talked on the phone. It's a pleasure to meet you.
Same here. Let me introduce my crew. Scott...Roger...and Unruly Julie ...this is...I'm sorry. What's your title again?
I'm the superintendent here at L.A. County Jail. Me and my deputies are who you'll be working with while you're here.
That sounds great. Look, I don't want any of this to intimidate you. This is not going to be a big deal. This is going to be very easy. I need to talk with Mr. Wurlitzer. You guys get your equipment ready, power up the van and confirm a transmission code for the remote. Julie come with me.
How's everything coming, Mr. Gayle?
Everything's coming along just fine. Phil, I wanted to know if I could have a small word with you.
By all means.
You met the kids I have working for me? Great bunch, aren't they?
Oh yes, indeed. Top flight.
Scott, genius cameraman, Roger, magician with sound. Unruly Julie, I could sooner do without my arm than Unruly Julie.
Is that her real name?
Just a little nickname. Yep, they're my kids and they're all I need. After working together these past coupla years, we're like welloiled machinery. No, more like a Formula race car. No, scratch that one, too. What we're really like is a Swiss watch. Small, intricate, compact...it shouldn't work as well as it does, but it does. Because of the craftsmanship, the expertise, and the artist's loving hand.
I see.
Now, Phil, I don't know if you've ever been on a set before
Ya know, I was.
Really?
I was on the 'Dukes of Hazzard' set about eight years ago.
Well...small world. Well, then, you know firsthand how Hollywood does things. Lights all over the place, generators, a hundred and fifty crew members
Oh, that 'Dukes of Hazzard' show, there was probably ninetyfive people there, maybe more.
See what I mean? It's a funny business, isn't it?
It sure is.
They got a asshole over here. A asshole sitting down reading a magazine over there. A asshole perched up there. Assholes everywhere. Hey, maybe if we were doin' that kiss, kiss, bang, bang stuff we'd need all those assholes, too. What we're about is intimacy. We're about two people having a conversation. Say I was interviewing you. All I want you to worry about is what I ask you. I want a trust to develop. If you're thinking about all this... ...you're not going to relax, a trust won't develop, we'll be talking a each other instead of to each other, there will be no chance for intimacy.
Well, just what the hell do you expect me to do?
Lose 'em.
Mr. Gayle, do you have the slightest idea how dangerous Knox is?
Mr. Wurlitzer, I assure you, I am very familiar with Mickey Knox's career.
Since he and his wife have been in custody, they've killed
Don't recite the fact to me. I'm sure I know 'em better than you do.
Well, let me let you in on one more fact you obviously don't know. If I were to take my men away, Mickey Knox would snap your neck like a twig.
One...I can take care of myself. I grew up in a tough neighbourhood, and I've handled some pretty rough customers in my day. Mickey Knox doesn't scare me. Two...I'm a journalist, and I'm prepared to take that risk. Three...it ain't gonna happen. Believe me when I tell you, it is in Mickey Knox's own best interest to play this game according to Hoyle. Wait a minute. We've gotten into a advisory relationship here, which is not what I want. But seriously, Phil, look at this.
We got one...two...three...four ...five...six...seven...eight. I mean Jesus Christ, Phil, that's too much. Let's lose some of these guys.
Wayne, if it was anybody else
Phil, I'm just scared he's gonna clam up on me with all these sheriffs all over the place. They hate him. He hates them. What kinda intimacy am I gonna create with all this hate in the air. Even you and I feel it.
What are we talking about?
Two guys?
Okay. I'll take two guys off.
No, no, no, no, no, no, I mean only two guys.
I can't do that. Five guys.
Three.
I'll cut it in half. Four guys, but that's it.
So we got a deal. Four deputies
And me.
Why don't we make it three deputies and you?
Why don't I have Mickey thrown back into his cell and we can forget the whole thing?
Chill out, Phill. Four deputies and you, I can live with that. We're about ready to go here, so let's get rid of these other assholes.
Don't call my men assholes.
I didn't mean they were assholes. I mean if they're leaving, get 'em outta here.
I'm not running out and getting that piece of shit a Coke.
Fine. Julie, why don't you make a food run? What's around here?
Could we go with you and film it?
Stay up here and finish your interview, I've got to see what the hell's going on down there before I can take responsibility for you to film there.
But how can you say that?
They're mesmerising.
But you see, that's okay, Wayne.
Why?
They passed the 'edge' along to us.
How so?
By taking away our legs. Now we have to fight harder to get ahead than anyone else you'll find in this gym. Probably the whole city. They gave us the fighting spirit. Before this happened I was content. Now I'm pissed off. Now I'm half a man and I've got to work like the devil to get whole again.
But you'll never be whole again.
Never is a very long time, Wayne. A word only the weak use. I'm not a sore loser. Even if I don't have a leg to stand on, I'm going to get up and fight this world until I'm on top again.
We got tonight and tomorrow to get our shit together. The day after that they're shippin' Mallory. That's when we do the Mickey Knox interview, 'cause the next day he goes.
Would the network really not run it without the interview?
Are you kidding? The last thing they expected was Mickey Knox to get up close and personal. They wanted a follow up episode and would've taken anything I had given them. I'm not gonna tell Mickey Knox that. I'm gonna make him think his grey matter depends on it. When I told Woody and the brass about this coup, they practically shit a brick. I'm talkin' an adobe brick. They want to expand the show to a hour, and they want it on immediately.
So Unruly Julie's comin' with me and planning the interview. You two go down to the editing bay, take the old footage and the new footage, put it together, and see what we got. Get it into shape so when we finish the interview, we can just stick it in.
When do you want the assembly?
Tomorrow.
Okay, boys, let's have it.
Well, basically, what we did was put part of the old show on first...
Good work, my brothers. Fanfuckin' tastic! I think that interview stuff's too long, we can lose some of that. Keep the girls, keep the long hairs, keep the Hun brothers, keep the black guy, keep the movie shit, and keep the cop at the donut shop. Lose the rest. And cut the interview with the prison board fellow before that. Cut it after I ask, 'I take it by your answer it was a whole new team.' Don't even let him answer. Fuck him. Then cut to me talking about the two chicken shit psychiatrists and straight in Dr. Reinghold laughing.
Okay.
How's it working, Scotty?
Perfecto!
Rollin'...and speed!
Slate it.
Camera jam! I'm sorry Wayne. God.
Fucking dammit! Mickey hold onto that thought. Reload, quick!
It's gonna be beautiful.
Super cool. This is great stuff. How ya doin'?
Pleased to meet ya, Jack. I read your book. I'm impressed. Good work on Curtis Fox.
Thanks.
What's the travelling arrangements?
Well, Mickey and Mallory can't be together. So, we'll put you on one of our prison busses and you'll take Mallory first, then you'll come back for Mickey.
And where do you keep Mickey?
We got his stinkin' ass in the deepest, darkest cell in the whole place. But it just so happens that right now he's got a special visitor.
Who?
Wayne Gayle.
Wayne Gayle!
What the hell happened to you?
You should see the other bitch. What time you got?
Twothirty. Shhh...
Are you all set?
Yeah. Bus is all gassed up and ready to roll.
I assigned you Bingham and Washington to go along.
Yeah, we met. They're good men.
They're real Goddamn good. They'll be there for when ya need 'em. Where are they?
Waitin' in the lounge.
How 'bout Mallory?
Coolin' her jets in a holding cell.
Nothing for me. I'm leavin'.
Me, neither. I don't eat meat.
Jack, could you stay up here for a while?
Yeah, sure.
I'm taking one of these men. Yates, come with me.
Drink up! This is a celebration. This is the day we received word we were gonna make television history. We're gonna have the first sit down, in depth interview with the most charismatic serial killer ever, one day before he's being shipped to a mental hospital for the rest of his life. This is one of those golden moments that happens maybe only four times in a lucky journalist's career. This is Wallace with Noriega, this is Elton John confessing his bisexuality to the Rolling Stone, this is the tearful reporting of the Hindenberg disaster, this is Truffaut setting the record straight on Hitchcock, this is a Robert Capa photo, this is Woodward and Bernstien meeting Deep Throat in an underground parking lot, this is John Reid reporting 'The Ten Days That Shook The World', this is the hippies' bloody palms at Kent State, the Maysles brothers at Altamont, this is the Nixon/Frost interviews...
This is Raymond Burr witnessing the destruction of Tokyo by Godzilla.
How immediate is immediately?
Next week's episode.
Now we got to film a new intro for the follow up episode. But we put the intro for the first episode at the beginning temporarily so you can see it with some scope.
I hear ya. Play.
You can't be serious?
I'm as serious about that as I am about going back to the donut store, and dipping that stupid Mexican's head into the batter for forgetting my chocolate cream filled. Gimme that other box.
Huh uh. This dozen is for Mickey.
That dumbass probably put my chocolate cream filled in there by mistake.
Roger, no.
What's the big deal? Take out my chocolate cream filled, put one of these roasted coconut
Roger, do you understand what the word 'no' means? It's important we establish a rapport. Something as simple as a dozen donuts can mean the world to somebody who hasn't had a donut in a year.
So you're giving a man who butchers whole families, little babies included, my chocolate cream filled?
Okay, guys, we're here. L.A. County Jail. Julie, just park in the front.
Wayne
Roger, I'm starting to get pissed. Just drop this fuckin' donut shit, and gather your gear.
Roger, enough with the fucking donuts! What did I tell you. Stop bothering Mickey, and get behind your nagra.
Fine. Roger, what the hell are you doing? You're bothering the serial killer.
Roger?
Rockin'!
Scotty?
I want two men stationed in that tier, and I want men with rifles all along the walkway.
Capt'n!
Here's the layout of the laundry room.
Where do the air ducts lead?
Here.
What do you think, Pitney? How much Explosives do you think that they really have in there?
It's hard to say Capt'n.
Take a wild stab!
I'll say enough to destroy this wing.
The entire wing?
That's my opinion.
Jesus...
I admire them.
I do, too.
Hypnotizing.
Have you seen 'Pumping Iron?'
Through the power of the simple word
And a snakeeye glare.
and a snakeeye glare, Arnold was able to totally psyche out any confidence Ferigno had.
He squashed him mentally before physically defeating him.
He had the edge. The mind's edge.
Mickey and Mallory have that edge.
Only on a much grander scale.
They've hypnotized the nation.
Schwartzenegger was the king of the edge before they came along.
Yes.
Yes.
That's the Mickey and Mallory way.
That's the way of the world.
They're shocking the world into remembering the primal law.
Survival of the fittest.
They had us tied down during one of their house raids, you've seen the headlines, and they were taking a chainsaw to our legs before they were gonna kill us.
Just for fun, I guess.
And then Mallory stops Mickey and says, 'Hey, these are the Brothers Hun.'
Mickey stops sawin' on my leg and says, 'Oh my God, I'm your biggest fan!'
Apparently, they've seen all our films.
They were especially influenced by 'Conquering Huns of Neptune.'
So, Mallory calls 911 and they took off.
They actually apologized.
Yes.
Then you've seen the scene where Arnold Schwartzenegger is talking to Lou Ferigno.
Yes.
How can you say that you 'admire' them?
It's like this, Wayne. Two people are standing in a dark room waiting for the other to attack. These two people can't see each other, yet they know they're there. Now, they can either stand in the dark room forever waiting until they die of boredom, or one of them can make the first move.
Why can't they just shake hands and be friends?
They can't because neither knows if the other is a deranged senseless killer like the Knoxs. So, you may as well make the first move.
And they made the first move?
Unfortunately, yes.
I can't go. I'm too fucked up.
I'm not saying it's not gonna hurt, but
I can't run with you, Mickey! I really want to. If I could, I would, but I can't. I gotta stay here. But you can still get out of here.
No fuckin' way! No fuckin' way!
If they stay, they'll catch you, and they don't have to catch you
No fuckin' way!
Mickey, you're wasting time!
I don't give a damn if a million United States marines, all whistling the halls of Montezuma, are gonna come marchin' down this alley any second. There ain't not fuckin' way in hell I'm leaving you. And that's that!
Yeah baby.
You made every day like kindergarten.
Hello Mickey. We've never been introduced, but I'm Wayne Gayle. I don't know if you've ever heard of me or remember me. I was one of the reporters outside the courthouse during your trial
Everybody knows who you are. You're famous.
The episode we did on Mickey and Mallory was one of our most popular ones.
Did you ever do one on Wayne Gacy?
Yes.
Whose ratings were higher?
Yours.
How 'bout Ted Bundy? Ever do one on him?
Yes. Yours got the larger Nielson share.
Good...yuppie piece of shit.
What I'd like to do
How 'bout Manson?
Manson beat you.
Yeah, it's pretty hard to beat the king.
We've been waiting to do a follow up episode on you for a long time. And that time has definitely come. I feel it's apparent to anyone who's hip to what's going on that the prison board has thrown the constitution straight out the fuckin' window. You and Mallory may be killers, but you're not insane. You belong in a prison, not in an asylum. The prison board is blatantly railroading you into a hospital for the sole purpose of turning you into vegetables. Now some people are saying, 'So what?' I am not one of those people. If we avert our eyes while they do this to you, we give them permission to do it again whenever they see fit. Today they wipe clean your mind because they feel your actions are dangerous, tomorrow they wipe clean my mind because they feel what I say is dangerous. Where does it all stop?
My problem Mickey, is that you don't exactly inspire empathy. I'm all alone on this. I need your help. I want what the prison board is doing to be the focus of our follow up episode. Now I have interviews with chairman of the prison board Dewight McClusky about this issue. And I'm tellin' ya, Mickey, he looks bad. The two psychologists they used for their psychiatric kangaroo court won't talk to us, which always looks bad. I have an interview with both the judge of your trial, Bert Steinsma, and the psychologist and author, Emil Reinghold, both of which discount the notion that you're insane. You put that all together, and what the state is doing becomes obvious. But the network isn't satisfied. They feel the show needs another element. It needs you. In order to put the show on the air, I need to get an interview with you. You haven't talked to the press since your trial. Now, a few days before you get transferred to an asylum, you grant an interview on television with Wayne Gayle. We're talkin' a media event here. Every son of a bitch out the with a TV set's gonna tune in to see that. We'll make their motives so blatant, we'll shame 'em into dropping the whole thing. At least for a little while, the publicity would keep them from just giving you and Mallory lobotomies. Well, whatta ya say?
Have you talked to Mallory about this?
She won't even see me, Mickey. Now you're not supposed to know anything about what's going on with her, but I'm gonna tell ya somethin'. Since you two've been sentenced, Mallory hasn't spoken one word.
She doesn't talk?
Not to anybody. She sings.
She sings? What does she sing?
Songs. 'He's A Rebel', 'Leader Of The Pack', 'Town Without Pity', that Dusty Springfield song 'I Only Want To Be With You'. That's what I hear anyway. Her behaviour was the main thing the doctors' report used against you. So even if she would see me, which she won't, I couldn't put her on camera anyway. If I ask her, 'Mallory, are you insane?' And she starts singing 'Dead Skunk In The Middle Of The Road', that blows our whole case.
Mickey, how do you feel about cross examining Grace Mulberry?
I'm keen with anticipation.
Okay now, before we get started here, there's a few things we have to get clear about.
All right, Mickey.
Let's discuss it when I'm unbound.
Sorry about that.
Don't worry about it.
We're about ready to go here. Are you ready?
Let's do it.
So, Mickey, tell us what you do for fun.
Aside from the obvious?
Much obliged. What do I do for fun? Do you want to know what I do for fun or what I did for fun?
What? Oh, aaahhh, what you did for fun for starters.
What I did for fun for starters. Well, something I used to do...always was a lot of fun... No, scratch that. Let me think of something else. In fact, why don't we come back to that question. Ask me something else.
Do you miss Mallory?
Of course, I miss Mallory. She's my wife. I haven't seen her in a long time. What a stupid question.
Then was it worth it?
Was what worth it?
Was massacring all those people worth being separated from your wife for the rest of your life?
Do you think up these questions or the girl with no tongue?
No, Mickey, I can't let you get away with that shit. Answer the question. Was it worth it? You haven't seen, heard, or smelled Mallory in a year. Was it worth it?
Was an instant of purity worth a lifetime lie? Yeah, it was.
Excuse me, did you say an instant of purity? What was the instant of purity? The bodies you left behind on your bloody trail?
That's only part of it. I mean, it's a big, big, big part. But it's only the chorus, it's not the whole song.
Please explain to me, Mickey, where's the purity that you couldn't live without in five year old Danny Millhouse's blown off head? Where's the purity in fortyeight people who are no longer on this planet because they met you and Mallory? What's so fucking pure about that?
You just said an instant of purity was preferrable to a lifetime lie. I don't understand. What's so pure about fortyeight dead bodies?
You'll never understand. Me and you, Wayne, we're not even the same species. I used to be you...then I evolved. From where you're standing, you're a man. From where I'm standing, you're a ape. I'm here...I'm right here... and you...you're somewhere else, man. You say why? I say why not?
Tell me about the purity.
It's not that easy, Wayne. Donuts and a smoke only get you so far. You're gonna have to do your job.
Okay...okay...I'll buy that. We'll move on and come back later.
I'm sure we will.
Describe Mallory.
Describe Mallory? Okay. She's pretty, she's got blonde hair, two eyes, two feet, two hands, ten fingers...
Don't play dumb with me, Mickey. You know what I mean. Describe Mallory. What's up here? What's in here?
That's indescribable.
Well, riddle me this, Batman. How do you feel about the fact that you're never gonna see Mallory again?
Says who?
Says the United States of America.
When have they ever been right?
Everybody thought I'd gone crazy. The cops, my mom, everybody. But you see, they all missed the point of the story. I wasn't crazy. But when I was holding the shotgun, it all became clear. I realized for the first time my one true calling in life. I'm a natural born killer.
Okay, let's cut it.
I could go for a Coke.
Could I get a Coke for Mickey?
You guys wanna hear a joke I heard?
Sure.
Now, I'm no comedian, but it's pretty funny. It's a Little Johnny joke. Now in the joke, Little Johnny can't talk. And Little Johnny's teenage sister asks her mother if she can go out on a date.
Donut, get your camera. See if it's broke.
Let me check on Scott. He's hurt bad.
Scott's dead. And unless you wanna play follow the leader, shut up and do as you're told.
Okay, we're going out that door, and we're gonna march down the hall and right out of the building. Donut said something about a news van.
Yeah, we have a van.
Where's it parked?
Out front.
Let me have the keys.
Mickey, can I talk to you alone?
No.
This is crazy. You can't escape like this.
Probably not, but we're gonna give it the old college try.
We'll all be killed.
That's what I thought. You tell them that. When we go down those stairs, I want you to scream what you just told me. 'My name is Wayne Gayle! I am the star of American Maniacs watched every week by' how many people?
On average forty million.
'Every week by forty million people. I am a respected journalist.' Have you won any awards?
Are you kidding? The Golden Globe, The Edward R. Murrow award...
'Respected journalist' On your knees...
...'Winner of the Golden Globe and the Edward R. Murrow award among others.' Tell 'em the name of your personal lawyer, his firm, his address, and phone number. Tell 'em about the mayor and the unemployment lines. You getting the idea?
Yes.
Say it. Scream it. All the way out the front door and into your van. And if you stop screaming, I swear to God I'll blow your head off.
Got it.
We ain't got all fuckin' day!
Without any further ado, Mickey and Mallory...
C'mon, c'mon, let's hurry this up.
So, what now?
Just wait one fucking minute.
I said I'd give you a interview. Now unless I'm mistaken, we just did a interview. We did an interview, didn't we?
...developed between the three of us. We're kindda in this together, don't ya think?
No. Not really.
Don't touch those triggers! Please. I think I've already proven that a live Wayne Gayle is much more better that a dead...Way Gayle. I was your passport out of jail, not Duncan Homolka. But me! I'll be your passport outta
Just save your breath, Wayne. We hate you. If anybody in the fuckin' world deserves to die, it's you.
Wait! You can't kill me. Mickey and Mallory always leave somebody alive to tell the tale.
We are. Your camera.
Let's make a little music, Colorada.
NO!!!
How come you never talk?
She was born without a tongue.
Oh my God! Sorry.
Say something.
What?
Anything.
Ah...fine. Let me make an adjustment here, and we'll be ready to rock 'n roll. Oh...uh, the dumbass at the donut place put a chocolate cream filled I asked for in your box.
There's a chocolate cream filled in there?
Yeah. Ya see, I ordered that special.
Tough titty, it's mine now.
Look, I'll trade you.
You guys stay on your bellies.
Yes, sir.
How is it?
Not good.
Do you have a back up.
It's video.
Even better. Wayne call your station, tell 'em we're going live a little early today. Make it happen!
You ready, Donut?
Ready.
Wagons, hooaaa!
...one night I was asleep, and a noise wakes me up. I thought, 'Oh shit, somebody's broken in.' I didn't own a gun, so I go into the living room with a fucking umbrella. Okay, it turned out to be nothing. God made the noise. Who knows?
How's it goin'?
Looks like we got a Mexican standoff.
Slide the shotgun over here, put your hands behind your head, put your forehead on the floor.
Or what? You'll wound me? I can blow you in half and you know it.
I've never wounded anything in my life. I got you locked right between the eyes.
Did you ever see 'Eldorado?'
What?
Okay, buddy boy, where ya keepin' Mallory? I know she's still here, and I know you know where. So, start talking or my first work as a director will be your death scene.
She's in the holding cell, on this floor.
You're taking us to that holding cell now. All right, Cut!
Yeah.
Okay, Wayne, step forward.
Congratulations on the Curtis Fox case, Scagnetti. You put an end to a nightmare. The ladies of this city can get to sleep again, and they have you to thank.
Thank you, sir.
Dewight McClusky of the California Prison Board. Take a seat please.
Who isn't?
You been followin' the news coverage?
They've been separated since their incarceration in a couple of penitentiaries
Susanville, Soledade.
They've killed a shitload of inmates and guards
Five inmates, eight guards and one psychiatrist all in one year's time... Very good. You do keep up with the headlines.
Look, our situation in a nutshell is, no prison wants 'em, no prison will take 'em. I'm even talkin' hellholes, where the warden's as hard as a bar of iron. No one wants those fuckin' assholes behind their walls, dealin' with 'em day in, day out.
I can appreciate that.
So can we. So the solution to our little problem is we had them deemed crazy. And we're shippin' 'em to Nystrom Asylum for the criminally insane.
Lobotomy Bay?
You've heard of it?
So, how do I fit into this scheme?
The public loves you Jack...You don't mind if I call you Jack, do you?
By all means.
You're a celebrated cop. Twentysix years on the force, a bestseller out on paperback...
You're a breathing icon of justice and that's why you were chosen to deliver Mr. and Mrs. Knox. We, the prison board we, knows that once you get them on the road if anything should happen, an escape attempt, an accident, fire, anything...Jack 'Supercop' Scagnetti would be there to look out for his public's best interests.
I see.
You write the script Jack, call it, 'Showdown in Mojave: The extermination of Mickey and Mallory', whatever... Have we found our man?
Who's the song bird?
Mickey's better half herself. Mallory Knox. This little lady drowned her father in a fish tank.
Because they wouldn't give them their blessing for marriage.
Ain't love grand.
Why are Mickey and Mallory being moved to an asylum? And who made the decision?
The prison board made the decision. A board of which I belong. We're the who. The why is simple. Mickey and Mallory are mentally ill and need to be under a doctor's care, where hopefully they'll receive the help they need.
Mickey and Mallory were deemed competent in a mental examination before their trial. I'm confused. What's changed?
Well, since that time, they've killed one person during their trail. And since their incarceration, they've killed one psychologist along with several guards and inmates.
When they were found competent before, they had already killed fifty people. Other than the fact they're a disciplinary problem, which frankly shouldn't surprise anyone, I still don't see where this situation is any different then it was before. So, I ask you again, Mr. McClusky, what's changed?
What's changed, Mr. Gayle, is our minds. We felt they were competent a year ago. A year has passed, sir, a year where they were under close observation, day in and day out, and their behaviour has led us to believe we were wrong.
Who is we?
The prison board and the doctors who examined them.
Were any of the doctors who made the first evaluation on the Knoxs mental state asked to reexamine them?
Using the same doctors is not common practice.
I take it by your answer it was a whole new team?
Now that you bring it up, yes. They were different men. I hadn't really thought that much about it. Since many psychiatric opinions are, by a rule, sought out for this kind of situation. What do you think normally happens? The Knoxs are assigned a family psychologist that takes care of them throughout the rest of their lives? The state doesn't work like that.
Naw, she don't mind.
Grace. I'd like to talk to you about your murdered brother Tim, if you feel up to it.
Now, when we get out there, you do what we say or it's curtains. If we say move, you move. If we say left, you move left. If we say right, you move right. If we say mole, you dig a hole. Got it?
Are we in a big hurry?
You got something you want to do?
Yeah.
By all means, knock yourself out.
Thanks. Roll 'em, Donut.
Mickey!
Don't stop!
Hasn't it?
We still got a few tricks up our sleeves.
Divine intervention.
What he said. We didn't know jack shit about and riot. It just happened. It was kismet. We didn't even know those people. How are we supposed to organize a riot when we've been in fuckin' isolation for the past year? Just bleep out the fucks and jack shits. I mean, it's not like we care. If they wanna say we masterminded the whole thing, let 'em. It won't exactly keep us up at night. But you said you wanted the truth, and the truth is we were just lucky.
Looked like an interview to me.
I said we'd give you an interview. I never said we wouldn't kill you.
Mallory, what did you think of Mickey's plan? Did you think it would work?
It wasn't 'till we got on the ground floor that I totally realized they weren't gonna shoot unless we shot first. When we got out of the stairwell, I remember thinking, 'Oh my God. This might work.' But Mickey knew it would work all along. There wasn't any doubt in his mind. It's not like there was and he just didn't show it. He knew it would work.
What did you think then?
I wondered how long it would be before we'd get to be alone together. And I wondered if I could wait that long.
Did you have anything to do with the riot in the laundry room?
Haven't you been listening to a fuckin' word I said? ...Oh, I'm sorry. Can I say fuckin'? I can't, can I?
Try to keep it to a minimum.
We had nothing to do with that riot. That riot was just  whatchmacallit 
Well, now me and Mickey are gonna take it easy. Just enjoy each other's company, stop and smell the roses, notice the color purple, stuff like that.
How do you intend to disappear? you're probably the most famous couple in America.
Well, back in slave times they had a thing called the underground railroad. And we got a whole fan club out there just waiting to be conductors. So, you kids out there, keep the faith. Cause Mickey and Mallory will be comin' to your town real soon.
What kind of pies do you have?
Apple, pecan, cherry, and key lime.
Which do you recommend?
The key lime is great, but it's an acquired taste.
I haven't had a key lime pie in ten years.
When ya had it, did ya like it?
No, but that don't mean much. I was a completely different person ten years ago. Let's give key lime a day in court. And a large glass of milk.
More or less.
More or less...
When you study the martial arts, they give out belts that come in different colors to signify what level you're at in your training. Am I correct on that point?
Yes you are.
What was the color of Tim's belt?
The style of fighting that Tim studied didn't believe in belts.
Is that a fact? Well then, Grace, could you tell us what form of martial arts it was that Tim was schooled in?
Tim studied several styles, but his favorite was Jeet Kune Do.
Jeet Kune Do...Now I did some research on that form of fighting, and I found out that Jeet Kune Do was a style developed by Bruce Lee. Did you know that?
Yes, I did. That's why Tim studied it. Because it was Bruce Lee's fighting style.
Now, while I freely admit total ignorance on the subject, I have heard of Bruce Lee. And I was under the impression that Bruce Lee was one of the, if not <u>the</u> greatest fighter in the history of martial arts.
That's what Tim said.
So, I think it would be safe to say that anybody who studied the fighting style that Bruce Lee, arguably the greatest martial artist of all times, developed for nine years, that would be a fella who could defend himself. Would you describe Tim that way, Grace?
Yes, I would.
Point of fact, weren't Tim's hands registered as lethal weapons?
Yes, they were.
That means his hands are considered a weapon like a gun or a knife. Am I correct on that point?
Yes, you are.
Thank you. Grace, there is one other thing...
What...
Hi, I'm Sueleen Gay.
I'm John Triplette. Excuse me. I got all caught up in looking at you. You'll be fine.
Oh, why thank you.
May I see your costume?
Now this is to raise funds for someone who can help people who are less fortunate than yourself. The more you take off, you see, more money we can raise.
I see.
I know that you are an artist and I am sure you are very religious.
Don't you think they'd just love another song instead?
Now, Sueleen, you know that's not what we talked about right here in this very room.
You want a ride into town?
You bet.
Got me an audition tonight.
Well, you just remember, if you can't kick front, kick back, 'cause at least you're kicking... Ten minutes, okay?
No  That's exercises. My coach says you have to do exercise because the vocal chords are muscle and need to be stretched. Every time you stretch them, the middle part sets stronger. That's the place where I sing.
You think I got any kind of a voice?
You sure do it loud.
Is that good?
It's not bad.
You think I should take lessons?
If you're serious. Being serious is real important.
You serious?
Wade  I've been working toward this audition for years.
Well, honey, I sure hope it comes your way then.
You think it will?
Sure thing.
Pleasure
Where is she?
What do you think of him?
Hal? Well, Hal and I have been friends for a long time.
You go to school together?
No, we never did that
Oh 
We're connected by a relative. One time, one of his aunts married one of my uncles. That was a long time ago, though. How'd you come to work for him?
Well, I really think he's got a chance.
You do?
Oh yea  There has never been a better time for something new.
He ain't really new.
He is to a lot of people.
He was a good Judge, but that was a long time ago.
You know, I'll bet you he makes it with a majority.
Where are you from?
Southern California.
You always live there?
Spent time in Arizona. Why?
Well, I admire your optimism, and I just wondered if it was regional. You ever see any movie stars?
I know a couple.
No kidding  Wait till I tell Linnea. Who?
Ah... Peter Finch.
Who?
Peter Finch  he's English.
I never heard of him. Name somebody else.
Ryan O'Neal.
You really do? ~ God  How come you know them?
Oh, you meet them at parties and stuff.
I'll be damned. Boy, if you could get Ryan to say something about Hal Phillip Walker, wouldn't that be something?
Well  maybe. Let's see what happens here.
I'll be dammed.
Hi.
Hello.
I'm Opal.
Oh yes, I'm John Triplette.
I'm gathering information about the characteristics of music people. I just finished a documentary on Gandi.
The architect His buildings are drippy. You know, like sand and castles. Then I got this assignment. They want to start in two weeks.
Why?
Why?
What?
What? Oh. A film.
We just got a gold record.
Do they have a show to give it to you?
No Hell, some secretary in New York just hands it to you. Only this one kept dropping it out of the box.
Did it break?
Dent it a little. Boy  just she couldn1t even find it. She had a hamburger on her desk that looked three weeks old.
How long have you been together?
Probably a little too long.
Do you study at all?
Depends on what I'm studying.
Come on back to bed.
Yeah, you bet. You're really terrific. You know what I mean?
Come on.
Just a minute.
How's your stomach?
Pretty good. Sure was surprised to hear from you. You talk to Bill?
Not yet. Listen, Norman, I want...
They're looking all over for you. Do you have a copy of the album.
You know Bill is really mad at you.
Oh?
I mean...
Mary?
Sorry I'm late.
You're not.
Where's Bill?
Sleeping.
Where are you going?
Out.
Hello. John Triplette.
Hello.
Glad to meet you.
Oh, no.
He's pretty well known down here.
Wednesday at the park. We've got a lot of names coming in...
For him?
Yes.
What for?
You're real favorites of his.
What National TV...?
You're doing some recording here, aren't you?
An album.
Might be good for you.
You don't know how pleased he'll be.
What!
I can do benefits
How much?
I can only give you fifty a week here and ten bucks for the benefit.
Money's no object.
Are you sure you know what you're doing?
Hundreds of times.
Well, there's a couple of girls in Printers Alley if you got any questions. I know I've seen that G string stuff for sale someplace around.
Don't you worry about Sueleen Gay.
That's for sure. At the airport  that's where it was. At the airport, there in one of those gift shops... Anyway, you better take a break.
Thanks. You are just a wonderful person.
Hello.
Linnea?
Yes.
You sound different. Is that really you?
It's me. What is it?
Can you make a rehearsal in the morning...? Courtland wants to...
What time?
Eightthirty in the chapel.
I'll be there.
I was in prison for twentyeight years.
Oh.
Premeditated murder.
Oh.
Just got out. Had me thirteen lawyers. Missed the electric chair twice. .. Been out three months. Are you heavy?
I'm not sure...
I'm fortysix. Do you like to go up or down?
What?
High? Do you ever get high? A walk on the wild side. Ever do dust?
All I need is fifteen minutes a night.
Fifteen minutes?
Sleep. That's all I need. Don't want to waste no time sleeping. You married?
What...? 0h, yes.
Not me. Ain't never loved anybody. Ain't never been married. Won't either.
You know who that is?
Yea.
I see.
My mother. died in '72. They told me after. They said they couldn't find me before, so they told us after.
What?
They said go see the chaplain.
I'm sorry but I have to go.
Hello.
Linnea?
Yes. Who's this?
I'm here.
Who is this?
Tom. You remember?
I'm not sure. Where?
Remember, about a month ago, your church choir cut a record?
Yes.
Well, I met you that afternoon in the control room and we...
Oh, Tom, of course. What are you doing in Nashville?
I'd really like to see you.
Or course. You should come over to the house. The boys would love to meet you.
That's not quite what I had in mind.
Well...How have you been?
Well, they removed my heart last week, but I'm doing fine except my nose fell off. Looks a little funny.
Hello.
Hi.
Who is thin?
Who is this? It's Tom.
I don't know who you are.
What do you mean? You said you wanted to see me.
Hello.
Wow!
What?
Who is this, right? I called you last night.
Oh.
I've got a gig tonight.
Oh?
End of Church Street. Next to a grocery store.
Doesn't it have a name?
I can't remember. In out/out in, something like that. Around eight.
You're really terrific, you know what I mean LINNEA rolls over and faces him.
I have to go.
Wrong.
I have to go. He sighs.
I know.
Stay.
I can't.
Car pool?
When did you think it would happen?
I'm not sure.
I knew when I first met you.
Oh.
How old are you?
Older.
Thirty?
Well...
I'm twentyeight
Oh.
Older than thirty?
Terrific! Who was that black guy? A friend of yours?
That's unkind.
Come on, you ever been attracted to a black guy?
I'll talk to you tomorrow.
That's what you said before.
I know. Goodbye.
Have your children been deaf since birth?
Yes  yes, they have. It was a real shock at first, especially since my daddy's a preacher, but Delbert and I have been blessed by their being here.
When did you start singing?
When I was little, in church.
Isn't it unusual for you to be working with a black choir?
Yes, it is 
Well, can you tell me why?
It just is.
How long have you been with them?
About three years.
And before?
Just my church and my boys. We all had to go to school and learn hand talking. I just thank the Lord they can see.
Do you ever do any writing?
No, I don't.
Are you a close friend of Haven's?
No, mostly his wife's. She's in Paris, France, right now. My husband Delbert is real friendly with him. Delbert's in law. Does work for him.
Do you like him?
He's a member of our congregation.
Mom?
I've been so worried, dear. where are you?
Nashville.
Oh... Well.
The car broke down.
Oh, well, I knew that before you even left. I told you, 'Kenny, that old Nash won't make it down the road.' But you had to go.
Well, I got to Nashville. That's pretty far.
Next you'll be sick.
I feel really good.
How are you going to pay when you get sick?
I'm in a rooming house with Mr. Green.
Green? Not Owen Green. Owen Green embezzled money from your grandfather
I don't know his first name.
Bet the sheets are grey.
No. No, they're white. He's got a nice dog.
Worst time at year for dogs is when they get fungus.
Fungus?
He doesn1t have fungus, does he?
I don't think so.
Well, you'll get it, skin as sensitive as yours.
How do you know if they do?
Weather's been awful. All those bombs dropping. It changes our weather. Sure not like the good old days.
Does their hair fall out?
Your hair fell out? Just like your father. Weak hair.
Listen. Maybe I should go...
I've been a Little dyspeptic.
I want to get the dog off my bed.
But, I'll take some of that Nyquil... you know it puts you right to sleep no matter what's wrong, you go right off...
Okay. I'll be talking to you.
Keep warm, dear. Let me hear from you.
Bye.
Bye.
Wrecks.
Ah, hello. My name is Kenneth Fraser... And I'm here from Terre Haute, Indiana. Ah, listen ... somebody stole my handles.
We don't mess with accessories.
Oh, well, thanks. Ah, oh, maybe you know where...
Parts.
Do you carry door handles?
What kind?
Nash.
What year?
Sixtythree.
Have you seen a woman about so high?
No.
She had on high heels?
No.
Need a ride?
Hey, there  You seen my Winifred?
No.
You got a place to stay?
No. Probably stay at a motel tonight.
You in music?
No.
Get in.
What's this?
Replacement party.
Who's that?
A guy named Walker. Amazing person. He's developed a huge following.
How do you know?
Well I've been following him around Just listening to him He says he can really win  I bet he can too  
You must really like him.
Well, he's really amazing.
I haven't gotten into politics yet. I'm still into music except for you. You're into politics.
Listen, your Aunt Ester just died. I'm... sorry... Listen, I really Feel bad now about last night...We had no...
I'm in a hurry, gonna see this great group record at Woodland.
I mean, Mr. Green was so nice to me. He took me in and...
I don't really know what you're talking about.
Did you see who that was?
Glad to see you. Ester'll be glad, too.
He is just wonderful.
I'1l get your bag.
Uh huh.
She's been in the hospital two weeks yesterday.
You know anything about the stations here?
It's hard to say. Doctors thought she'd come home a week ago. All it was was appendix.
All they got is advertisements. Just like L.A.
Did an exploratory and according to them, she needed an overhaul.
Well, I could use one, especially if I'm pregnant.
What did you say?
I said, maybe I'll change my name again.
I see... Well, those doctors are real miracle workers.
But not unless Nashville really inspires me.
Maybe you can look after me a little.
That Tom sure is cute.
Yes, sir.
Can I help you?
Yes, sir. I need a room
I think we can do that. Come in.
I didn't think it would. She's calling herself L.A. Joan this week. Last week it was Dakota. Guess if you have to change your name a state's as good as anything.
She sure sings nice.
My wife and I think so, but we're family. Your family's always good or bad depending on how you look at your family. What do you do, pick or sing?
Oh... a little of both. Just thought I'd look around at Nashville for a while.
When you run out or money, 'cause you will here, you can go sing at Bishop's Pub. They let you pass the hat. All these kids do that. Most every place doesn't want to bother with you.
I'm not really a musician.
Well, don't be shy. I got the address here. Anytime you need it. Room's twentyfive dollar! a week and you can have breakfast with me if you like.
Suits me.
Listen, do you know anything about cars?
A little. What do you need?
Sure... you're a fine boy, Ken, you really are.
Okay... you get to sleep. I'll see you in the morning. Good night.
Good night,
HI. Look at those flowers. Did you grow those.
Ester and me did; My niece picked then. She's just here from California.
That's good, I've never seen anything so healthy.
Well, Mr. Green.
Hi, Sherry.
How'd you get in here.
Mr. Green?
Yes, ma'am. How are you today?
Didn't you get?... How are you?
I'm fine. Can I go up?
Let me see if I can get the doctor hold on one second.
You want me to wait?
No. Mr. Green, I don't know how to tell you this  your wire passed away  I thought they'd called you at home.
What?
Your wire Ester  she passed away.
He's my father.
Haven Hamilton is your father? Can you arrange an interview?
He got killed at a turkey shoot.
Your brother?
Yes. I was in my Sophomore year at Harvard.
Harvard?
Business School so I can run Haven's business.
What is a turkey shoot.
You go out in the woods and shoot targets  Whoever shoots the most wins a live turkey
How in the world did he get shot?
Some guy was drunk and hit him. Accident. Haven almost killed him.
Do you know Barbara Jean?
Sure do. Good friend of Haven's.
Haven's not going to talk to me.
Sure he will.
Sorry to bother you, Bud.
Yes, sir. Like you to meet Opal.
Need to have you check these out before he goes on that Walker benefit.
Sure thing. Put them here... I'll take them.
Thanks... I'll... go say hello to your mom.
She's in Paris.
Oh... Well... Have you heard from Barnett?
Not yet.
Let me know when you do, all right?
You bet.
I'll just be in here.
Howdy.
Where the hell have you been?
Where are you going?
To the bathroom.
Hey!
It's the den mother.
Listen, we're suppose to sing on TV day after tomorrow. At the park...
National?
Yes. Percy Warner Park'.
Come on. He's a crook.
What crook?
He saw us at Tammany Hall.
The Hell he did. Look, I'll see you in the morning.
Bastard
Stop it!
President?
When is it?
It's an appearance. It has nothing to do with support. I don't even like him.
Bill, he's a crazy man.
You're kidding.
How come?
Yes, but we're just singing.
Sue was trying to get hold of you.
Hi. I'm John Triplette.
Hi. Come on in. Mary!
You want anything? A drink?
Oh, no, listen, I don't want to take up too much of your time.
Don't you worry. We're just having a quiet Sunday at home.
Well, I'm here putting together a show. It's a benefit really.
Whose?
Hal Phillip Walker.
What's he running for?
President.
National television?
ABC.
How much?
Minimum.
Where'd he ever see us?
D.C.
D.C.? Tammany Hall? He came there?
Sure thing.
Okay.
Okay.
How is she?
A little slow, but she'll be fine.
Have you talked to Triplette?
Who the hell is he?
He's lining up talent for Hal Phillip Walker.
Who the hell is he?
He's going to run for president.
Third party?
He has that sign with the tree.
What does he want?
Barbara Jean.
What!
That's what he wants.
You know better than that.
It's on National television, Barnett.
I don't care. She's always been neutral in politics and that's not going to change.
Well, how about the shopping center?
Yes. She's pretty rested up.
Okay, then we'll see you there.
Okay.
I'm sorry. I feel as if I know you. I'm John Triplette... a friend of Del Reese... I was at the airport. I just wanted to introduce myself. I'm a great fan of hers. If there's anything you need, just give me a call. I'm at the Sheraton South.
She's going to rest now.
Okay, I just wanted to see if I could help out at all.
I appreciate your concern, but she has to rest, so you can go on home.
Oh, sure.
What do you really want?
Not a thing, Barnett, really. I need a little information. But, ah, it can wait.
You bet.
Okay. Thanks.
Yes.
Barnett, John Triplette. How's she doing?
She's fine.
Well, I just thought I'd call.
Well, you did and she's fine. Thanks.
Well, that's not entirely true, Barnett. At least not according to Haven.
Haven? Hell,' we've been playing poker together since we were fourteen.
I guess that's why he thought you right want to help out.
He knows better.
Well, it's probably because it would help him.
How is that?
Everybody likes to be as good as their word.
Whose word?
His Word.
His word? Are you telling me Haven promised you something?
That's pretty close. He's going to be on the bill. Why not put Barbara Jean on with him?
What?
They can come to the concert in the park.
I said 'no!'
I got trapped and you know it, so let's have some rules.
Absolutely. Listen, Barnett, I understand your position.
No, you don't, so don't say you do. Bunch of damn liars. What do you get out or this?
Nothing; Barnett. It's my job.
Your job, huh.
Am I disturbing you?
I'm really all right, Barnett. Don't you worry really... I just don't want you to leave me that's all.
Oh, honey, I didn't mean to scare you.
How did you come in here?
Well, my wife, Ester's down the hall. I saw Barnett leaving and I was just talking to Ester about your being here. She loves you so much, I just had to come down and say hello. We've been following you since you were a girl. Well, I just scared you to death. I didn't mean to do that.
Well, I guess you caught me at a weak moment.
You'll have to speak up.
I said, I've been real tired.
Eater says she doesn't see how you do it.
What's wrong with her.
Oh just about everything, I guess. Those doctors started on an overhaul and don't want to quit. They keep taking things out. She's going to come home an egg shell. Tough, though.. She's tough.
What did you say your name was?
Green.
It's fine. We were just talking about Vitamin S.
I'll go on. Ester'1l be very glad.
You remember what I said about the Vitamins.
You going today?
Thank you Yes, I am.
I'll tell Ester, she'll be thrilled I saw you again.
You get her those Vitamin E right away.
I got them right here.
Well, Bye, Bye now. We have to go.
Bye, Bye.
I called Connie and she said not to worry, She'll fill in for you.
I see.
Barnett, please 
What's wrong honey.
I don't want to listen to her sing 
Don't feel that way, honey.
Then why are you listening to her 
Well, I have to go thank her for filling in and it's nice to know the tune she sang.
You have to what?
Go to the King Of the Road and thank her.
Barnett?
What?
Oh, Barnett, I'm so sorry.
Honey, it's okay... How do you feel now?
All those people...
Don't worry, I'll take care or it
You're so good.
You're from out of town?
Yes. I'm cutting a record.
We have a Bible study meeting tonight if you'd like to come.
Is there food?
No.
Well, I just wondered 'cause being from out or town I wouldn't be able to make anything.
No, those are socials you're thinking of... Saturday's usually.
You got the money?
Right here.
Well, don't lose it. Last time I gave you twentyfive dollars, you lost it.
Well, that just happened that time.
Well, it better not happen again.
You lost twentyfive dollars once before that, too, near Christmas time  I remember that real well now. December 9th, to be exact.
You got a real good memory, Star.
I remember when I just saw you. Skinny Winnifred. Jesus, you were skinny.
What do you have to buy?
Feed, mostly. Thought we'd get something for the kids.
Okay by me  I'd sure like to see that Opryland.
What?
Grand Old Opera 
I hate that music.
I know that, Star.
Winifred.
Hi! Star.
Winifred, the kids want you home and so do I.
I won first prize.
Come on.
Reverend Dyer, this is Kimberly's somewhat butch maid of honor...
... Mr. Julianne Potter, prominent New York drag queen.
Kimberly wanted to tickle the grandmas, so we figured, give 'em a cheap thrill. Walter supplied the decorative touches...
Nose tackle from the Bears... power forward from the Bulls... defenseman from the Black Hawks... my personal favorite, the designated hitter...
... I'm partial to the tight end.
This is USDA Prime, largely available, beef. With no notice able competition, present company excepted...
And yet here you are. All celibate and reclusive.
With those big, dark, haunted eyes. As if you were harborin' some... unspeakably... guilty... secret.
Maybe it's happy there.
Oh the way out of the crab house? We asked Michael if we could see the ring?
He said you told him. It'd be safer with you.
An so it is.
Personally, I think Mr. Michael's marrying the wrong girl.
You're much more his type.
Well, the school will be here. Architecture will still be around. Right now...
I travel every week. College ball, motor sports, training camps...
The most important thing. Is being together.
Because I could come...
To the twins' soiree? So they can paw you and drool...?
It's not just a gag, huh?
No, it's, uh... a real big favor.
He never mentioned that. Neither did y...
... and public relations is a big problem area for him.
He needs someone incredible, someone really close, who he can trust...
Like family, huh?
It would only be, maybe, six months? Or three or four? It would mean so much to him...
To him.
And to m...
... and you knew about this.
All of a sudden, I'm supposed to drop out of school, forget my family, forget my career, forget all the plans I had for my life...
Well, forgive me for screwing up your plans!
I'm sure glad I'm hearing all this now, before it's too late!
What is that sup...
And what am I supposed to do with my life, huh? I am 28 years old! I work in a lowpaying, lowstatus, zerorespect job which, unfortunately, I happen to fucking love. How inconvenient.
What a sweet little picture. Mommy and Daddy aren't losing a daughter, they're gaining a eunuch!
Well, if that's the way you f...
Damn straight, it's how I feel! What's their wedding gift, a little gold collar that says "Mikeypoo"? Or do I have to change my name to "Binky"?
Fine. I'm an insensitive, chauvinist asshole, and you're well rid of m...
MICHAEL!!
I've been calling for days!
Yeh, well my old machine kept eating messages. I tried constructively ignoring it in hopes of improvement, but finally...
Well, that's great. You haven't really had anybody since Dingbat Jennylee...
You don't understand. I've never felt this way about anybody!
And she's all wrong for me!
Well, somet...
I mean she's a junior at Chicago University, she's twenty years old! Like when I first met you.
Well, sure.
But they're so down to earth, such wonderful people...
You've met her parents.
Michael, it's Wednesday night, you can't possibly be getting married on Su...
Actually, it all starts tomorrow. It's one of those fourday weddings, with all the traditional events, and ten million people flying in from Madagascar such.
Well, the Sox are at home. SI's letting me do a profile on the Big Hurt. That's Frank...
... Thomas, yeh.
Well, maybe we should talk ab...
I need you.
Please come, please.
W...
I can't wait for you to meet her!
What's the sec...
Mirrors.
Best everything, Joe. But I'm going to dance with you.
Dance? You don't dance! You learn to dance??
I just admire your maturity, that's all. I mean, there are people who would find that kind of perfection boring. Day after day, year after year...
... see, that's what I thought at first. How can you like someone that perfect? No potential for longrange livability.
Luckily. The closer I watched, the more the fault came into focus. Each imperfection its own adorable slice of vulnerability.
Such as.
She's too genuine.
Hate that.
How can you trust someone you can never mistrust?
What's next?
No matter how many times I leave the toilet seat up, she forgets and puts it down.
Endearingly absentminded.
My very point. Here's another one...
Every day. She makes the bed.
Quite the little eccentric.
At first, I thought it was a gag, but she's always done it!
Is there a coup de grace in here, somewh...
She admires. Tommy Lasorda.
Waiter! Check, please!
She finds him "personable."
Can that kind of defect be passed on genetically?
Gimme like, eight and nine off the top ten list...
First girl I ever knew. Who lets me give her a bath.
Where was that, Florence, huh?
Firenze.
The Vespa? Me hanging on behind in the rain all night?
Till the gas ran out.
Should I whistle down a cab?
Hey, cabs are expensive. I'm cheap, remember?
Pretty amazing girl, you've got. Make that kind of sacrifice.
What, leaving school...
... all of it. She's leaving her family, her friends, everything she knows. She's putting her career on hold, and she seems a pretty ambitious, driven, kind of pers...
I mean Walter owns the Sox, cable sports... most girls in her spot would be angling to get Daddy to offer you some juicy gig right here in t...
She would never. Never. Even think of that.
I guess you're right. That would be deceitful... manipulative... controlling... emascula...
I got the point.
Still. All's fair in love and w...
That would be a girl. I don't even know.
You're not eating.
I never eat when I'm serene.
You never eat when you're despondent.
I switched that around when you weren't looking.
Last zoo we were in was... Beijing, yeah? Sure. The rhinos were fucking.
Boy, those were the days.
It's weird being the groom. All these things Kimmy has to take care of...
You need a babysitter. That's what I'm here for.
Wow and wow. You have a date, after this?
Never can tell.
Why don't you start being honest for one fucking sec...
Michael!!
No problem. A little bullshit about Daddy's "needs," and presto, I'm a lap dog in high society.
Michael, it sounds like a wonderful opportun...
Does it, really? How come you never took some sellout establishment job? You had plenty of chances!
You guys are heartless, my bride picked this out.
Like I said, dazzling.
Big weddings are so strange.
You keep saying that.
Kim has all this stuff to do, I hardly see her.
Well, you've got the rest of your lives.
You miss her, huh?
No. I've got you.
Don't you throw up on boat?
If you like.
I've been thinking a lot the last couple days. About us, actually.
Have you.
Well. There's a lot of memories to choose from...
It's more than that.
You've sort of been... y'know, the woman in my life.
You've been the man in mine.
And I was thinking this could be our last time. Alone. Together. You know?
Except for the hot affairs we'll have twice a year.
Except for that.
I can hardly wait for your wedding.
Me either.
I wouldn't know. I never had that many first thoughts.
I mean, you commit to a wedding. And then it seems like... this... momentum, you know? You forget you... chose it.
Dance card filled?
I'll check. I have it on powerbook, these days.
Where did we first hear th...
The night we met.
So we heard it... like, right that... that first...
We danced to it. Just like this.
Takes me back.
Well.
No accents today.
Yeah, Kim told me they were giving you their Dueling Scarlet's act. Actually, they're sophomores at Juilliard.
Will she like it?
Yes.
It's no big deal, she just gave you the wrong keys that's s...
ISN'T THERE A GUARD? A JANITOR? A FUCKING CLEANING WOMAN? I'LL TAKE A BURGLAR! SOMEBODY'S GOTTA BE IN TH...
I'm up against a deadline.
Me, too. I'm getting married tomorrow.
That's my point!!
I forgot how cute you look. When you get impossible.
It's just... up there... right in front of Walter's... y'know, computer. If memory serves.
We could use... his computer, to... just Email those suckers right ou...
Tomorrow is Sunday. Nobody's doing business. Crack of dawn, Monday, Walter'll take you up there...
Listen up, huh? Even if you blow this deal, how big could it be?
You're right. Easy come, easy go.
This thing means that much to y...
It means a lot.
The fax is from Ben, too. Man, it's my wedding, and my boss can't leave me alone...
... maybe it's congratulations.
Michael? What ha...
Mike. I can't believe I'm doing this to you on the night before your wedding. But I think you need and deserve to know...
Isabelle? I need to talk to Kim...
"Mike, the funny thing is, he's offering you a gig you'd be stupid to turn down..."
I'm just tired. Please put her on? Thanks.
"Maybe you should take the job. And dump the girl."
What happened?
It's over.
She denied it. Said I was crazy and paranoid.
A bad combination.
Michael...
No, it's for the best, it really is. We were so wrong for each other.
Maybe tomorrow, you'll feel dif...
The job thing would have broken us up, eventually, anyway. She couldn't have lived with it. I know that now.
Should we take a walk? Or maybe some food sent up, or something...
I just want to be alone. Is that okay?
Or we'll go somewhere. If you have the time.
If San Antonio sweeps Sacramento...
I had the craziest dream last night? Walter and Kimmy had asked your boss to...
Look, I came down here to face everybody. I didn't want to slink away like some coward...
But the Scotch salmon was so fucking good, you decided to stay for brunch!
She hasn't told anybody, what am I supposed to do?
Get married, apparently.
This is her family and her fault.
And your point?
Well. How come she didn't...
BECAUSE SHE'S AS CHICKENSHIT AS YOU ARE, YOU MORONS ARE MADE FOR EACH OTHER.
I asked you...
She admits it's her fault.
Does that make it right...
Love doesn't have to be right. It just has to be love.
Thank God you were here.
Oh, yeah.
I was so confused, so conflicted, so... unstable.
Well, it happens.
... your one chance for true happiness?
... yeah, that.
You never want to do that, see, that's always a... costly turnover. As they say in the sport biz.
The Big Hurt, huh?
Nellie Fox. Walter likes the past. And he likes the little guys.
What's up?
Shhh.
Jules, what's wrong...
This is the dumbest thing I will ever do. So dumb, in fact, that I can't. I don't think.
Uh. I saw that moving...
DON'T SPEAK!
You're not saying you actually... you're saying that y...
... wrote it, yeah. I'm the bad guy.
ARE YOU CRAZY?
I mean, do you realize what you've... well, of course you realize, that's why you're confessing, I mean... I mean... how could you do that?
I didn't know it would get sent. I just wanted you to... get mad at Kimmy... and...
Actually. Lower. I am the fungus that feeds on pond scum. Lower. The layer of mucous that cruds up the fung...
Lower.
Lower.
The pus that infects the mucous that cruds up the fungus.
I'm so glad you didn't jump on that train, before...
I came here, looking for her.
Why would she come here...
This is where I proposed.
I never forgot that.
It's two weeks.
Almost three.
That is so romantic.
You can't believe you've lost her! Sooner or later, you'll find her, and you'll look in each other's eyes, and you'll see all that love...
Course, if it's later rather than sooner, I'd hate to be you at six o'clock. You've got a lot of explaining to...
I'm just thinking of how she's hurting. Lost. Alone. Like her life is over.
That's little egotistical.
Okay, we'll split up. You go to every romantic place you guys have, I'll go... someplace brilliant, and the first one who...
If you find her...
The kiss. May be hard. For you to explain. Because the only fear she really has, is...
... me, yeah. And she likes Tommy Lasorda. Case closed.
If he gives you grief, I'll have him skillfully beaten, where the wounds won't show.
I guess getting him whacked would be politically out of the question.
Under the circumstances. Charmed to know you, Jules.
Nice meeting you, too, Walt.
They both have some growing up to do. But they're good people, they're starting with love. They've got time.
I think you're making a mistake, sir.
Is anybody watching?
I hope so. This is all too mysterious to waste on just me.
Julianne, reading my soninlaw's mail, is not something...
Sir, this is important! Haven't you ever in your life cut one corner, to make something important turn out right?
It's a fax from Sports Illustrated from Ben Isaacson, Michael's boss.
I know Ben.
I think he's been fired.
It doesn't say th...
He's said some things over the past few weeks. Look, this is why I came up with the idea of you offering him a job.
And you think he's kept this to himself.
He's too proud to beg for help. And if you wait till this comes out, your offer will be like charity. Completely humiliating.
Maybe. I should call Ben.
Then it could all come out, sooner or later. Nobody should be in on this. Just you and me. Or, more correctly, I.
I thought Michael was picking me up.
I told him, get the important stuff, Kim's ring. I'll collect the inconsequentials.
I haven't caused... a problem, have I?
Nobody has. So far.
Well, you're a little early...
I need to make some calls. Could I use... your office?
Have you sized up the groomsmen, Jules? As M. of H., you get first fuck. Don't pick the short, hairy, rich one.
... unless he has a hump.
Well. See. That was a... reflex to see if it would...
... look good on Kimberly.
Right. And then it didn't want to come off. Exactly.
I saw the show.
... well, maybe it works on fingers, too.
Wallace egregious residence, Mandy speaking.
It's Jules, you guys haven't had a call from, say, Kimberly, have you?
Oh, she's slipped out, the little monkey. Prob'ly with Michael, doin' the nasty.
Excuse me?
I had this crank call? From some guy who thinks he saw her? I said, what would a bride be doin', on her wedding...
You are <u<so right. What a nerve on that guy! Bring my dress to church, huh?
All I've heard, from the day I met Michael, is Julianne this, and Julianne that...
Well, we're...
I think the best part of marrying this guy is finding you.
My heart's in my throat, here. Right off, I have to ask this monstrous favor...
You need a few dollars.
Excuse me?
I can be quick. I can even be funny.
But I can't be dry.
Can you watch the road?
See. Dry. It's in the delivery.
This is a very presumptuous and burdensome fav...
... you want a menage on your wedding night.
You can't believe what it'd cost to bring in a temp.
Uh. How about promoting a bridesmaid? Someone you know for at least fortyfive minutes.
The bridesmaids are my only two female relatives under forty. Identical twin debutantes from Nashville, who are basically vengeful sluts. With amazing bodies!
Which was the disqualifying factor?
The twin part. I like to remain impartial in my contempt.
I thought bridesmaids had to wear the same dress.
Not you. You won't be comfortable unless you're distinctive.
What else did he tell you...
... you hate weddings, you never go.
That's why Michael and I were the wrong fit. Right from the start.
He said that, too.
Don't you have to be somewh...
... just my bridal shower. And Michael has to meet our dads and the groomsmen at Comiskey for a onethirty game.
... luckiest guy in the Northern Fucking Hemisphere, is all I'm s...
What? Because I'm a little understand...
... most sentimental schmucks I pity want a honeymoon after their wedding. Just to top it off.
I'm excited Sports Illustrated gave him this kind of shot, he's only there a ye...
So your honeymoon is exactly where?
It depends. If San Antonio sweeps Sacramento, we could start there. Or Phoenix. Or depending on Indiana Clevel...
... garden sports, all. Little swing of maybe fifty degrees Fahrenheit, represents a packing challenge, but there's fine food and cocktails at a choice of Embassy Suit...
Well. You've been introduced to the symphonic range of...
... his snoring, yeah. He says it's worse than ever. That snaffle one...?
How about...
... cigars in bed? I broke him on that. But the bathroom's a swamp, he wears Reeboks to dinner, tells the same, admittedly funny, jokes three hundred times...
He sucks soup through his front teeth.
A trademark move, don't touch it.
But he sure can kiss.
It's been awhile. I'll take your word.
After two weeks of cataloguing all his faults, I made a command decision that changed my life.
And loving him means loving all of this.
Do you get nervous in small confined spaces?
So it's sweet of you to be protective...
Let me rephrase that...
But nothing ever could, ever did, give me a moment's pause about this marriage...
Do you get hysterical in small confined spa...
... except one.
You'll always be there. In his mind. The perfect creature he loved for all those y...
Well, perfection can get wearing after whi...
I'm not joking. I had to face up to all my competitive drives, and believe me, I've got 'em.
No.
And the answer was so simple.
I was gonna predict that.
You win.
You're enshrined in his heart and memory. Unassailable. Which works out great.
I've missed a step.
He has you on a pedestal. And me in his arms.
Jesus, we're trapped!
Ju...
No, this happened to me once, almost, it was excruciating!
It's not just clubs. This guy always knows the best everything. The best guitar store, the best beef ribs, the best Horowitz record, was he always like the...
... always. The best dim sum, the best camping stuff...
Stop, we're embarrassing h...
... best valley in New Zealand, best... women's shoes...
About Michael's job.
Oh, that. I forgot I even said th...
I just think you're wrong, is all.
Probably am. Forget I brought it up.
I mean, he loves his job.
Bad games, bad towns, bad pay, bad flights, bad hotels, real bad food. Homeless, rootless, lonely, maybe your copy gets into one issue out of four...
But he always says...
... whatever is manly and independent.
For the twins? What in the world is th...
Gold nose hair clippers.
Gold dog collars? They don't have dogs.
Hello.
So... one almost has to...
Exactly.
Exactly what?
What you said. Make it appear that he's doing you the favor.
He'll see right through it.
Only. If he wants to.
In six months, he'll be happy, settled, successful...
He won't get mad, huh?
Your call. You can live a lie. In a fabulous selection of Red Roof Inns. Or you can make one desperate stab at hap...
I just don't want to freak him out.
Uh, Kimmy...?
We settled this. And I reneged. That wasn't fair.
Look at all this beautiful food, so lovingly prepared...
They'll eat it anyway, you ever been to a walk?
Who? The jerk who's running your life?
This must be... very, very, hard on him.
What with the psychosis and all, yeah.
When are you gonna come clean with your folks?
Don't you see...
If you're waiting for "Do you take this man?", that's considered poor form.
... that this is all my fault?
Yeah, well, lots of couples are imcompat...
I love him.
In one minute. You are going to feel so foolish.
WHY DON'T YOU JUST DRIVE A STAKE THROUGH MY HEART?
Have you ever heard of. Irony?
I never want to go through this again.
That's entirely understandable.
Is it ever embarrassing, having your bum kissed in public?
If your ass isn't chapped, you are not a goodwriter of note.
Is it sad to be an editor, and bask only in reflected insincerity?
I've adjusted, and thanks for asking.
See the pull of a book like Twenty Chefs, is not who I put in. It's who I leave out.
Which is everyone you couldn't get in.
Plus some guys whose food I don't like.
Needs salt.
Is Newsday a real interview, or just some cute guy you're setting me up w...
... I don't send you men, anymore. You don't know what to do with them.
Sometimes I do. Like for two months.
... weeks.
No, no, the opposite. That's my best friend, Michael O'Neal. He sounds desperate to talk.
The wandering sportswriter.
Nine years, we've seen each other through everything. Losing jobs, losing parents, losing lovers... travelled all over, we've had the best times. The best times of my life, maybe. Just drinking and talking. Even over a phone.
Kindred spirits.
No, he's nothing like me. He's like you. Only straight.
He's the salt of the earth. Kind and loyal and generous. The one constant thing in my life, is he'll always be there.
He's still in love with you.
Whenever George tells someone how steadfast I am, he always makes me sound boring.
Solid and genuine is not boring. Michael can be completely insane...
I've lost interest.
He takes a razor from his dinky little dopp kit, cuts his fingertip, takes my hand, does the same to me...
Blood oath.
He says, "Swear. When we're both 28, if we've never been married... we marry each other!"
You think...
Desperate. To talk.
He's not proposing marriage, there's no way I'm buying one word of th...
Then why are you compulsively eating? If you're not hysterical?
He can't do that to me!
We're about to find out.
We'll never be the same.
I have a suggestion...
I'll have to kill myself before I call him.
You have no appropriate sense of emergency. My best friend is ruining his life.
No, he's ruining yours.
Same difference. If you love someone, it's your duty to save them from themselves.
You have a real philosophy of life.
It's called the Law of Love, asshole.
He's adored me for nine goddamn years.
I can see why.
She knows him maybe five seconds, plus she has billions of dollars, plus she's perfect, so don't go feeling sorry for Miss PreTeen Illinois!
Chill. We don't want your face coming off with it.
Chill? Since when do you say ch...
When I'm talking to children.
You flew all the way h...
I noticed. I'm on the noon back. We have this thing with George's family in the Hamptons.
You're butting in.
What I mean, when I say annoyingly perfect, is that there is nothing annoying about her perfection. It is vulnerable and endearing. And that is annoying as shit.
You like her.
If I didn't have to hate her, I'd adore her.
I was devastated.
Go figure you.
Because I realized. When I see him say "I do," that knife will be in my heart. And it will be there every...
There are 18,250 nights in the next 50 years...
You've been working on this, huh?
... and having "done the right thing" will only really be comforting, oh, maybe, five, six times.
This is my whole life's happiness. I have to be ruthless.
And you believe that.
Sure.
He was in love with me every day for nine years. I can make him happier than she can.
It's not his happiness you're feeling guilty about...
I don't know the meaning of the word guilt!
Impressive.
I am breaking her heart in the short run, but doing her a gigantic favor! She would be miserable tagging along after this insensitive doofus!
The man you love.
Beyond reason. The feminist warrior will rise up in this kid, and she'll be standing over his sleeping form with a butcher knife, selecting from a short list of body parts!
Someday she'll thank you.
Let's not get carried away.
Jesus. You're supposed to take your makeup off before you apply the m...
I KNOW THAT! I WAS DISTRACTED BY GRIEF!
Zit cream?
I wish.
Neosporin?
Try less appropriate.
Ben Gay.
That was Thursday.
Elmer's Glue?
DON'T BE RIDICULOUS, WE'RE HAVING A SERIOUS CONVERSATION!
I give.
I can't even say it.
How do you know you can touch that plug? Are you a licensed contractor?
What do you suggest?
I suppose it's too late to start over.
It's too late to start over.
Two words.
Major. Dish.
Manicure...
You're going to say it, aren't you?
Tell him you love him. With all your heart.
I'm taking my next book to Viking.
Tell him you've loved him for nine years, but you were afraid to realize it.
I'm moving this book to Viking.
Tell him you're afraid of love. Afraid of needing.
Needing.
To belong to someone.
Tell him you know this is the worst, dumbest, cruelest moment to do this to him. But there it is, and he has to choose.
And what will he do?
Digger and George are with family in the Hamptons until Monday morning. Brevity is even more in order than usual.
Hey, handsome. Brevity this...
I did what I came to do.
Good girl.
I'll think about it. I'm okay.
Oh, you're more than okay.
Yeah, it's in the contract.
Well, then, I'll take it up with her.
... trouser width, this is all classic. Which means safe, something I'd wear.
I should look different.
You should look like you dressed yourself.
And I'm supposed to respect your fashion tips, because you're what, a New Yorker?
Something like that.
Long trip. Pretty nice of you to come.
Well, I'm close to her. I wanted to meet the one that got away.
What?
I'm just glad someone finally put this thing in its proper perspective.
Stay, huh?
I honestly wish I could...
I'll call George's parents. Tell them I need a best man who actually looks after me.
You don't miss much.
Part of being a New Yorker.
I knew he wouldn't come.
I can't, I have to go home.
Hey look at this, no feet!
Oh wow, a real evil canieval.
At what?
That's Mr. Bixler, let's go talk to him.
I don't wanna talk to a teacher, it's summer!
Hi Mr. Bixler!
No, I'm going home.
Why? It's not dinner time yet.
Dinner time?? You're like a dog! You just go home to eat.
It doesn't work, it always stays black.
It's only black when you're around 'cause you put me in a bad mood.
She's crazy, she wants to go to school over the summer.
It's not a real school, it's a writing class, I wanna be a writer.
She only wants to do it because her sweetie pie's the teacher.
Maybe they had a big breakfast.
I'm gonna be an acrobat when I grow up.
Big deal, I can do that too. Thomas J, you got something!
Oh no! UUH.
Hurry!
I'm trying.
Reel it in. He's only tiny, throw him back.
I don't like touching fish, how do you pull the hook out without touching it?
Yeah he got away. Come on let's go.
Hey, we can become blood brothers.
Naah, I don't wanna.
You could pick that scab on your arm.
It's a mosquito bite.
It'll bleed.
If I do it, can we go?
Uh huh.
Okay, OW!
Your lip bleeding?
No.
What's wrong with your eyes?
A girl can never wear enough eye shadow.
Where's your bike?
Oh, in the garage. Walk me over.
Hey look at this!
That was Grammoo's. It's a phrenology chart, they used to study the bumps in your head to see if you had a good personality or not. Come here, i'll diagnose your head.
No, I don't wanna.
Come on, it's fun.
Hmmmm, interesting.
What?
You have no personality.
Hey, where does it say that?
Never mind.
Is that your Dad?
Yes.
Who's that with your Dad?
It's my mother.
Do you remember her?
No. Grammoo said she's in heaven.
What do you think it's like?
What?
Heaven.
I think, everybody gets their own white horse, and all they do is ride and eat marshmallows all day, and everybody's best friends with everybody else, when you play sports, there's no teams, so nobody gets picked last.
But, what if you're afraid to ride horses?
It doesn't matter, 'cause they're not regular horses, they got wings, and it's no big deal if you fall, you just land in cloud.
That doesn't sound so bad, come on, we'll never find that streamer.
Here.
Don't DO that!!
Sorry.
What do you want? My mom will skin me alive if she finds I'm out here.
Let's go to the church, they're playing bingo tonight.
I told you i'll get in trouble.
Pacifist!
I am not.
Bed wetter!
I stopped that!
They're not gonna let us in Vada, we're kids.
We're not gonna bet, we're just gonna watch.
Watch bingo? I don't even like to play bingo.
Duck!
Can we go yet?
Go???
You know I'm not allowed outside my myself after dark.
Hey Vada, guess what we got?
What?
THIS!!
HEY YOU!!!! I'm gonna get you!!! I'll get you!!!!
Woah!!
What?
Pointing There's a beehive right there!
So?
Stand back.
Are you crazy, you'll get stung!!
You're right, let's knock it down.
What do you want it for anyway?
For their meat.
Got it!
My mood ring! It fell off! I gotta find it!
Run faster they're after us!!
I am running faster!!
Hurry!!!
Jump in the water!!
But I have my clothes on!
Do it!
Hi Vada.
Hi, wanna ride bikes?
Sure.
Come on, let's go.
Bye Mrs. Sennett.
Bye Ma.
California, I'm going to Hollywood to live with the Brady Bunch.
I wanna live with them too.
No, you can't, they have enough kids, you'll have to live with the Partridge Family.
Really?
Get up!?
I'm tired of running away. Besides, we past this place two times already. We're not getting nowhere.
Why are you running away?
My Dad gave Shelly a ring.
Wow, was it a decoder ring?
You're such a retard, it was an engagement ring.
They're getting married?
So now you'll have a mother.
I don't like her.
I do, she's real funny.
He likes her better than me.
I'm hungry, I can't last any longer.
Then go home, baby.
I have to anyway, my mom will be worried.
Leave then, some friend you are.
You can come to my house for dinner?
No, I'm hiding out.
Okay, seeya.
Oh, that's probably Thomas J, I don't wanna see him. It's not fair. Nothing happens to boys.
Hi Vada, can you come out?
I dunno..
Please, it's real hot, maybe we can go swimming?
Well when you get older, you just have to.
I'm gonna marry Mr. Bixler.
You can't marry a teacher, it's against the law.
It is not.
Yes it is, cause then he'll give you all A's and it won't be fair.
Not true.
Have you ever kissed anyone?
Like they do on TV?
Uh huh.
No.
Maybe we should, just to see what's the big deal.
But, I don't know how.
Here, practice on your arm like this.
Like this?
Uh huh. Okay, enough practice.
Close your eyes.
But then I won't be able to see anything.
Just do it.
Okay, okay.
Okay on the count of three.
Say something it's too quiet.
Umm, Ummmmm
Just, hurry.
You better not either.
Well, let's spit on it.
Okay.
Seeya tomorrow.
Okay, seeya. Vada?
What?
Would you think of me?
For what?
Well if you don't get to marry Mr. Bixler.
Thomas J?
I'm allergic to it.
To chocolate?
Wow, this is the coolest thing, like you really eat and sleep here?
Uh huh.
I'm gonna drive us to Liverpool.
Liverpool?
Eeeeuuuww, gross.
They're just fun to read.
Well, I guess you found my secret hiding place.
What are you saving for?
Nothing in particular, just putting it away for a rainy day.
Oh great!
Hey there's your Dad and Shelly.
Is that your camper?
Yes it is.
That's really cool.
She's shy.
Oh.
Who's winning?
I am.
You know Vada, you shouldn't let those girls upset you.
I'm not upset. I will never play with those girls. I only surround myself with people who I find intellectually stimulating.
He's allergic to everything.
Chocolate?
Ooh, that's a pretty ring you're wearing.
It's a mood ring, it tells what mood I'm in.
Maybe black means you're happy?
I don't think so. Shelly, how can I get thirty five dollars?
Shut your big fat mouth!
I think you'd make a fine writer, did you ask your Dad?
He won't give it to me.
Well you don't know that. Ask him.
Vada? VADA?? What happened??
My ball, I lost my ball.
Come on sweetie.
Hi.
Can we look around in your camper?
Sure. I'll give you the royal tour.
Big Ringo fan.
Ohh, right. Would you like a soda?
I would.
Thomas?
Did you read ALL these books?
Uh huh.
What are they about?
Mostly love, and romance.
Are you married?
No, I'm divorced.
Daddy said it's bad when people get divorced.
Well, sometimes married people just find out they can't live with each other.
Bye. Well Miss Vada, what d'you say we head back?
Can I use your bathroom first?
Sure.
You don't have to wait, daddy'll be mad if you're late.
Okay.
Are you going out somewhere?
No.
So how come you're putting lipstick on?
A girl's always gotta look her best.
I think lipstick looks fake, noones lips are that color.
Have you ever tried any?
No.
Come here, sit down.
Shelly, do you think I'm pretty?
Yes, Vada I think you're very pretty. You've got these great big sparkling eyes, the cutest little nose, an amazing mouth.
The boys at school don't think I am.
They'll come around. Close your eyes, I wanna bring out the gorgeous color in them. The first rule in applying eye makeup, is you can never wear enough blue eye shadow.
Do you like putting makeup on people?
Uh huh, i've been trying to get out to Hollywood for years to do makeup for all the stars, I haven't gotten there yet. All right, open your eyes.
Ssshhhhh, I don't want them to see me.
Aarrggh.
Hey, I thought I recognized you two, hi Vada.
Hi.
Hey Shelly, like seafood?
Uh huh, why?
See food!
I like my name.
This is Danny and Ralph, they own the Dino Raphael salon in Detroit. We used to be married.
Are you here to take Shelly back?
I don't think that that roller coaster agreed with your bad stomach. You know Vada you have to watch what you eat here, I remember one time I went to a carnival with my cousins David and Frank, and they both ate hot dogs, and the next day they came down with nephritis.
Nephritis? It's a kidney disease, you don't get it from hot dogs.
Well, I'm no doctor. All I know is, the next day they had really high fevers, and their faces got very fat. They baffled medical science, they were in a magazine.
I won, I won!!!
Oh great!!
Vada? Would you like us to get you another goldfish?
NO!, He's fine. Fish are very resilient animals you know. Don't worry, I won't get another fish.
NO!
Yes!!
Daddy??!?!?!
Vada, Vada, what's the matter?
Where's Daddy?
Well he just left, what's wrong?
I'm hemorrhaging.
What do you mean you're hemorrhaging?
I don't want, I don't need your help....
How old are you?
I'm eleven and a half.
It's okay, come on upstairs, we have to have a little talk.
My Mommy and Daddy did THAT?
It's actually a very beautiful thing, and look there wouldn't have been a Vada.
I think it should be outlawed.
Believe me, some day, you'll feel differently.
It's okay sweetheart.
I'll pay it back, besides, I don't think i'll ever go to class again.
I'll tell you what, you dedicate your first book to me, and we'll forget about the whole thing.
I will I promise.
Okay, get in to bed.
Goodnight.
Goodnight.
He must like Shelly, I never saw him hit anyone in his life.
He likes her.
Does he love her?
Probably.
Do you like her?
Yes I do, and I think she's very good for your father.
Why?
After your mother died, he was sad all the time, but before that, he was pretty funny.
Really?
Now when I see him with Shelly, sometimes he seems like the old Harry.
My Dad was funny?
Well he wasn't one of the Marx brothers, but he made me laugh.
So you fill it with water like this, and what have you got? A water gun.
Cool, can I get one for Vada?
Oh yes, yes.
Cause she's dying.
Do you think she is?
No.
Why do you think she says that?
Cause she gets scared of all those dead people in her house, and you know that saying, If you can't beat 'em, join 'em, well if she's one of them, she won't be as scared.
You know what I think? I think Vada's very lucky to have a friend like you.
Mademoiselle Sultenfuss and the amazing Dr. J! How's the summer treating you?
It's okay. Mr. Bixler, I finished all the books for summer reading.
Really? Already? The summer's just begun.
Yes, and now I'm reading War &amp; Peace for fun.
No wonder you're my prize pupil. What about you Thomas J?
Mr. Bixler, how come you're painting this old house?
Well I just bought it, now I'm fixing it up.
This is one big house for one single person.
Well, you never can tell... I might get a pet.
How are you gonna get the money for this old house if you're not working?
Well I'm gonna teach creative writing this summer, so, I'm doing some work.
How much does it cost?
Thirty five dollars.
What do you get for that?
Me, two hours a week, talking about poetry. This an interrogation Vada?
No. Well, guess i'll go home and finish off War &amp; Peace.
It's summer! You're kids! Go play!
I paid the money.
For this class?
Uh huh, I wanna be a writer.
Vada, this is an adult writing class.
Uhhh, va, uhh, Vada.
I wrote a poem too.
Please.
Loads of icecream by Vada Sultenfuss I like icecream a whole lot, It tastes good when days are hot, On a cone or in a dish, This would be my only wish, Vanilla, chocolate or rocky road, Even with pie a la mode.
Okay, okay we don't have to talk about him, Vada, Vada we don't have to talk about him, it's okay. We won't talk about him all right?
Justin and Ronda say that I should tell people what I feel.
Come here, sit down over here.
Mr. Bixler, I love you.
Oh, Vada...
I love you like my Dad loves Shelly. I wanna live here.
Pause as he takes all this in I think your Dad would miss you.
No he wouldn't, I can't go home.
Who's that?
That's Suzanne. She and I are gonna be married this Fall.
No....
I...I was gonna bring her to class next week. I wanted to hear your poem. Oh Vada, please honey I cared for him too, Vada please! Vada, Vada sweetheart don't.....
Get away from me!
I can't stay, I just came to read my poem.
We'd love to hear it.
Weeping willow with your tears running down, Why do you always weep and frown, Is it because he left you one day, Is it because he could not stay, On your branches he would swing, Do you long for the happiness that they would bring, He found shelter in your shade, He thought his laughter would never fade, Weeping willow stop your tears, There is something to calm your fears, You think death as if you forever part, But I know he'll always be in your heart.
Hi.
Hi, is Vada home?
Yes she is, but she's very upset, so she's not seeing anyone.
Oh, I'm Judy, I go to school with her, I wanted to tell her I'm sorry about Thomas J.
Well maybe she'll feel better in a couple of days.
Will you tell her I came by?
Sure.
Thank you. Bye.
Bye.
Well well well, what's going on in here?
Nothing, I'm dressing.
Oh, you're dressing, uh huh, Harry Harry Harry Harry, don't you know it's not nice to lie to your big brother?
Oh yes, oh that's great.
I'm very nervous.
Why?
The last date I had was twenty years ago.
That's true. Harry Harry sit down, let me fill you in on today's women, since the last time you dated, something happened, &quot;The Sexual Revolution&quot;, now before that, you used to have to hold a door open for a woman, pull her chair out, pick up the check, no more no more, you wanna know what else is missing? BRAS!
Oh come on.
Harry, I'm serious, trust me Harry this woman's lifting us in, you gotta treat her like every Tom Dick and Harry.
Are you sure about all this?
Did you not tell Vada I'm a womanizer huh?
Oh, I'm running late. Shelly'll be here any minute.
Oh she's picking you up, good you're on the right track.
No, she's just driving over here, then we're taking my car. How do I look?
Like a Sultenfuss. Go get 'em.
Harry Harry Harry Harry Harry, I told you to use fewer briquettes and now look what you've done. You've cremated them.
That's what I do. Do you wanna do it??
No, no no....
Look if you think you know how, why don't you premeasure the briquettes in little packages, put out a product, support me for a while!
I was born jaundiced. Once I sat on a toilet seat at a Truck stop and caught hemorrhoids. And i've learned to live with this chicken Bone that's been lodged in my throat for the past three years, so I knew Dad would be devastated when he learned of my latest affliction. Dad, I don't wanna upset you, but my left breast is developing at a significantly faster rate than my right. It can only mean one thing. Cancer. I'm dying.
O.K. Sweetie, hand me the mayonnaise out of the fridge.
Ahem.
Vada, just put 'em on the stool.
Daddy guess what I beat Thomas J in monopoly yesterday.
Ya, that rack holds six ties.
Vada, we're trying to work here.
Cruella deville stole all the puppies, she was gonna make a fur out of 'em!
Hand me the canula.
VADA!
Dad?
I'm embalming my high school teacher, don't sing. All right Arthur, just a slide of the needle.....
Daddy, how come that coffin's so small?
They come in all sizes honey, just like shoes.
Is it for a child?
Of course not.
Then who's it for?
Daddy, can I have thirty five dollars?
That's a lot of money for a little girl.
It's for school, for summer writing class.
Any more soda left?
Shelly thinks I'd be a good writer.
Last month you wanted to play the violin. Then you wanted to be a ventriloquist.
Dad?
I love this guy!
Dad??
What?
The money?
Ahh, maybe next summer.
Goodnight Vada.
Dad, why are you dressed up to go to bingo?
Ahh, I just wanna look nice.
You never cared before.
Well Shelly's coming over, we're gonna go together.
Why?
She likes to play bingo.
Can I go too?
Naah, I think you'd better stay here and keep Grammoo company.
HEY, OUCH, damn it!! Vada, watch what you're doing.
Sorry.
Dad, didn't you say you needed prunes REAL bad?
Ahh, Vada, just put anything you want in the cart, anything at all. I don't know what's gotten into her today.
Are they ready yet?
No, sweetie, not yet.
When?
Soon honey, soon.
When??
In a minute, look it's hot, sweetie you'll burn your nose, look out.
Yes..
Hey guess what? We're going to the carnival tonight, be ready to go in 10 minutes.
I like the freak show.
I know, I know, let's go on the &quot;sit on the bench and rest&quot; ride.
We're having the wedding sometime near the end of the summer.
Not acknowledging Harry's comment You'll be okay little fish.
I fall asleep at the wheel.
I'll ride on the bumper cars with you!
Hi Vada.
Hi.
What are you doing.
Feeding my fish.
Is that the fish you won at the carnival?
Yes.
He's getting big. Vada, come here and sit down for a minute.
Vada, something happened to Thomas J last night, he stepped on a beehive.
I told him not to tease those bees. Did he get stung?
Maybe I should go over and yell at him.
No sweetheart, you can't.
Why not?
He was allergic to bees.
He's okay isn't he?
There were just too many of 'em.
He's gone sweetheart. He's gone!
Get away, get away!!
Did I kill my mother?
What??
The bees killed Thomas J, and I killed my mother.
No, no.
I found this.
I forgot about that picture, where did you find it?
In the garage.
Ahh, that little Chevy was your mothers favorite car.
What was my mama like?
She was pretty, and kind, she had your eyes. Oh boy did she love to laugh. Sometimes when you laugh, you sound just like her.
Really?
Uh huh. You know what your mother did when she found out she was gonna have you? She came home and painted this whole room pink. She was so sure she was gonna have a little girl.
Do you miss her?
Yes, I did, very much for a long time, and even now, I get a little sad when I think of a pretty flower or a sunset that your mother would have liked.
I think every time I see a climbing tree i'll think of Thomas J.
That's good, memories are good sweetheart. Vada, I'm sorry; I was trying to keep it from you, I just couldn't. You're a good girl, and I want you to be happy; don't be an old grump like me. Seeya in the morning.
It's still available I hope?
I think it's still available.
I'm a licensed cosmetologist, I worked for two years, at the &quot;Dino Raphael&quot; Salon, all my customers cried when I told them I was leaving.
Uhh, Miss devoto...
I have a wonderful disposition, I put people right at ease.
Uhh, Miss devoto, these people are already at ease. This is not a Beauty Parlor, it's a Funeral Parlor.
They're dead?
Yes they are.
Stiffs??
Deceased.
The add just said &quot;Makeup Artist&quot;
Excuse me, what about the job?
Pardon?
I need the job.
Oh, You still want it? Even though uhh...
Ohh, oh sure it's no big deal, you see all my former clients will eventually die, and all your clients used to be alive, so they have something in common.
You'd be doing hair and makeup and answering the phone.
Okay Mr. Sultenfuss, you got a deal.
Great, you can start right away. Call me Harry. Now, umm, is this what you'd normally wear for work? Don't get me wrong, I like it, very much, but the....
I promise i'll take good care of these people, they deserve it, they're dead, all they've got left is their looks.
Uh huh?
Could you take a look at Mrs. Porter?
Yeah.
You don't like it?
This was the Reverend Porter's wife, you have her looking like a two dollar hooker.
I think she looks nice! Her lips are very thin so I used the gloss to give them a more sensual quality, and her eyes just needed a little definition, and her hair, I'm sorry, nobody wears this hairdo anymore in 1972.
She did. This photo was taken a month ago at the church food drive.
I just wanted to get past this &quot;old school Marm&quot; image.
That wasn't an image. She WAS an old school Marm. Fix it.
Harry? I was just wondering, if there is anything wrong with Vada.
What do you mean??
Well the other night at dinner...
Oh that, she just likes to play.
I don't think so, I think she's confused about death.
She was raised in a funeral home, she knows a thing or two about it.
Harry, I really think she.....
She's a perfectly happy eleven year old girl, look, don't give me any advice about my daughter, okay?
Can not do without, Harry's wild about me.
Excuse me Harry, I'm sorry, I just wanna let you know that the flowers were delivered. And the room's all set up.
Thanks, listen I wanna apologize for the other day downstairs, about Vada, I was a little harsh.
I shouldn't stick my nose in other people's business. It's just that I like Vada, very much.
After my wife died, Grammoo moved in here to help take care of Vada. They were very close, but lately as her mind's been wandering more and more, Vada's been acting kinda crazy. I'm sure she'll snap out of it though.
I'm sure she will.
Hi.
Oh Hi, what can I do for you?
Nothing, I was just wondering what you were doing.
Oh, I'm just typing up a funeral notice, you know when someone dies people want it in the paper usually, it's a service we provide for the family.
Oh right, right, . Bader Lorenzo Died June 22 1972 Devoted husband to Nicolette. Cherished father of Babritzio and Heidi, In lieu of flowers, please send donations to the holy names society.
I wrote that.
No kidding?
Oh it's good, &quot;In lieu of&quot; I love that word lieu.
I prefer it to &quot;instead&quot;, it has more dignity.
In lieu... &quot;instead&quot;.... No contest.
It's no big deal.
You have to learn how to take a complement. Movies, movies, ahhhh, &quot;Love Story&quot; at the drive in, I cried my eyes out, did you see it?
I haven't been to the movies in AGES.
I love going to movies, especially at the drive in. I don't think there's anything more romantic than going to the drive in. I'll let you get back to work.
I do enjoy playing bingo, if you'd like to join me for a game tomorrow night at church you're welcome to.
Okay.
Does it make it easier to win?
No. Just, more activity.
I just had a terrible thought Harry.
What's that?
I'm gonna be putting makeup on some of these people very soon.
Why d'you think these seats were empty.
Oh, I'm just not lucky Harry.
Look, it's not always luck, I mean, depending upon the placement of the numbers, a guy with 10 cards could win just as easily as a guy with 100.
Kinda like men.
Oh, how do you mean?
You can be in a room with 100 men, and not like any of them, or you can be in a room with just one man, and he's exactly the one you want.
I had a good time tonight.
I haven't had a bingo partner in ages.
Would you like to come in and see my house? Just for a minute.
Okay, sure.
Home sweet home.
It's nice.
I did it myself. I read a magazine article about how to maximize small spaces.
Well it certainly looks bigger that it seems.
You can look in the bathroom if you want. People are always curious about that, like what happens when you flush.
Yeah.
Are you mad at me?
No, why?
I don't know, tonight you just seemed a little cool, not opening car doors and...
Oh, that was Phil, trying to give me advice on dating 70's women. Look I'm so out of touch, I haven't dated women in ages, not since my wife died.
What happened to her?
Ahh, complications during child birth, she died two days after Vada was born.
Did she ever see Vada?
I brought the baby into the room a couple of times, she opened her eyes, yeah, yeah I think she saw Vada. It was.....
Dance with me?
Here?
This is where we are.
Is there enough room?
I haven't danced in.....
In ages, I know, me neither.
Rock?
See, you're not that out of touch. You're good.
At Widdman High I was considered a pretty hot date, I did a killer frugue.
What are you wearing?
Old Spice, Phil says it's a timeless classic.
Do you want to?
Want to what?
Kiss me.
Yes.
Good.
I ahh, better go.
It's only eight o'clock.
Goodnight Shelly.
Goodnight.
I'm tired of bingo, maybe we should try that drive in of yours.
Goodnight.
I'm just picking some things up for the barbecue.
Yeah, me too, mind if I tag along?
Not at all. Lot of potatoes!
It's for Shelly's famous potato salad.
I'm looking forward to that.
You know this is gonna be my first 4th of July picnic in a long time.
Really?
How's it going chef?
Okay.
Rub a dub dub, thanks for the grub, yay God.
I'll second that.
Shelly?
Honestly Harry, he got the mustang, I promise.....
Danny that's a real _bonehead_ thing to say!
Look, you're not gonna take Shelly's camper.
Well, you were pretty great!
Is it really your camper?
Can we see it from the back yard?
You can get the general idea...
Yep, there they are... They always look the same every year...
Pointing upwards Look...
Did you ahh, love him?
I would never marry anybody I didn't love.
Watch you don't knock out a fish.
Perfect.
I don't know which ball's mine.
Open your eyes, she's eleven years old! Her only friend in the world is dead.
I know that, but what do you want from me?
Stop hiding Harry, you run Harry. When I first came here, the idea of working with dead people, didn't exactly thrill me, but when I saw a family lived here, I thought, &quot;if I'm living without a family, at least I can work with one, and maybe once in a while i'll be invited in for supper.&quot;
Yeah, and when those suppers are disrupted because there's a car crash, or there's a fire, or a little boy steps on a beehive.
I'm not asking you to stop feeling for those people. But life isn't just death Harry, don't ignore the living, especially your daughter.
You are perfectly healthy.
That can't be, I have all the classic symptoms.
Sweetheart, did they bring Mr. Layton to your house today?
Yes.
Vada you've gotta stop this, there's absolutely nothing wrong with you!
Can't you see it?
No.
It's there.
Vada there is no chicken bone stuck in your throat.
Dr. Welty!!!? Dr. Welty??
Vada, what's wrong sweetheart?
I can't breathe, I'm suffocating.
Oh, wait relax now, let me look, let me look, come up here and we'll have a look.
It hurts, it hurts so bad, make it stop.
What Hurts Vada?
The bee stings! I can't breathe!
What am I doing here????? What am I doing here?
Hi Ralph. Oh Danny, how'd you find me here?
You told everybody where you were going, I'm here for the motor home.
I've been living in it for over a year, the camper is mine.
Excuse me, MUTUAL ASSET, that's what the lawyer said, it's supposed to be &quot;OUR MUTUAL ASSET&quot;, not &quot;Shelly's recreational vehicle&quot;. Gimme the keys.
Keep your voice down!
What?
The boss is watching us...
I'm impressed.
God I guess i'll have to introduce you now.
Yeah, all right...
This is Harry, Phil, Grammoo and Vada Sultenfuss...
Vada Sultenfuss?? Tough break.
Ex...ex, ex...
My __EX__ wife seems to have ripped off my camper.
Uhh, it's nice to meet ya. Uhh, we got burgers and hot dogs here if you'd care to join us?
Can't stay, I'm just here because my wife.....
Danny?
WHAT?
Okay, I know you've suffered a terrible loss, and there's really nothing anyone can do to comfort you, but I urge you to focus on the times you had with the camper, the trips you took, the sights you saw, those days are gone now, but they'll live on in your heart forever.
This guy bonking you?
Oh.. Oh.. Oh no?? Oh?
It's her home! It's where she lives!!
Oh really, okay fine look, go cook, Gimme the goddam keys.
Yeah, to play with his DOLLS.
Leave him alone! Come on, let's go.
Hey, you didn't pay me!
How do I know you were gonna show us one?
You're such a baby.
All right, here.
Of what??
Well, sometimes when we get 'em, they're not completely dead, you know, like when they cut a chickens head off and it still runs around crazy.
Arthur!!
Vada!!
I beat Thomas J in monopoly yesterday.
Good for you baby.
Once you put the hotels on board walk and Park Place he puts a shoe in your way.
I like to buy off all the railroads.
Wanna play?
No, I gotta go to the cemetery, keep your head up. Don't look at the ball, look at me.
Really?
Who didn't? She could play basketball like Jerry West, she danced like Sid Cherice, then she'd look at you with those big blue eyes, forget about it. I asked her out a couple of times but she always said no.
Beidermeyer?
Beidermeyer that's it, what a mad man.
He's a great poet.
He is?
Do you know him?
Everybody did, walk along Citrus between Fountain and Sunset any afternoon.
He'll remember my mother for sure. STANLEY It was a big class Vada and...but...well of course he'll remember, who could forget Maggie?
No it doesn't but... I...I wish it did.
Well, thanks for your help Mr. Rosenfeld and I'm sorry my mother wouldn't go out with you, I'm sure she would have had a really great time.
I would have tried to show her a good time. I promised her when she left that I would never forget her and I never did. Stanley Rosenfeld does not forget.
This is the street he walks down every day. When he needs inspiration...
Assuming the baby's a &quot;Supremes&quot; fan.
I bet your mom sang to you.
They're enormous, I know.
Is there milk in them already?
No, the milk comes when the baby comes.
When did you umm, I mean umm...
Oh, I was a very late developer, they used to call me &quot;Shelly Two Backs&quot;. All my friends had real bra's, not like the training ones I had.
Why do they call them training bra's? It's not like learning to ride a bike.
I know, I guess it's just sort of preparing you for the rest of your life. It's not easy being a woman.
You're telling me.
Then Grammoo said on Christmas Eve, there was this sickening smell permeating the entire house.
Oh no.
Mmmmmm. Root beer float that sounds good.
Did she mention any contests that she won? I mean she must have had some awards, she was so talented and all.
What's this? December 8th, 1958?
I don't know, Dad doesn't either.
Well, it must mean something. She was obviously very sentimental.
This is one of my favorite things, her passport.
Oh Vada she's so beautiful.
Margaret's my middle name, but everybody called her Maggie. Los Angeles, have you ever been there?
No. You know they say, that it never rains, that you can barbecue on Christmas day...instead of riding your bike, you just surf over to your friends house. Oh, and the place is just crawling with celebrities. I know someone who saw Walter Matthau picking up his drycleaning.
Is that why Uncle Phil moved there?
Uncle Phil just needed a change, a little adventure.
I wonder why she got a passport if she never went anywhere.
Well you've gotta be prepared.
I'm definitely traveling some day.
Why not now?
What do you mean?
How would you like to go visit your Uncle Phil in Los Angeles...next week during your spring vacation, you could do research on your mom.
But what about you and the baby? You need me.
Oh, but I'm not due to have the baby for another six weeks or so.
Yeah, it would be kinda great.
It would be fantastic.
But Dad'll never go for it.
You leave your father to me.
Shelly?
Hey! Oh look.
He's so tiny.
I know, look at his little hands.
Did it hurt a lot?
You have no idea.
Let me hold him.
O.K.
So what's wrong?
Nothing, nothing at all.
I mean...with your car.
Oh, ahh, oil change, I...ehh...I just drove in from Chicago and uhh...nice hair.
Excuse me?
I was commenting on your hair.
Oh, are you a hairdresser?
I'm a pediatric cardiologist.
Oh, you mean you...fix the hearts...of little babies?
Mostly...little babies, but...not exclusively.
...It's all in the hands really. You know you have nice hands, you operate?
Yes, I do.
...so I guess I'll always...teach...you know...'cause it makes a good relief from the operatingroom, I feel I have an obligation...
Ahh, Dr. Helburn, why don't you come in tomorrowmorning at eight o'clock, that's when we open, we'll get you started.
I'll be here.
Good morning.
Well maybe for you.
Something wrong?
Well let's just say you're lucky you deal with children who are under anesthesia.
Well, even without anesthesia I always tell my patients to...eh... to relax.
Oh no, I, I...eh...I couldn't.
You couldn't?
Well I'm sort of involved.
Sort of?
Let's just say I...eh...I'm involved.
Where I come from, involvement...generally calls for a substantial piece of jewelry.
Oh, well, I don't wear a lot of jewelry.
All right, so you don't like jewelry but...eh...you do like...eh...good music. Liszt, one of my favorites.
Lizt was my parents' favorite, they were Hungarian.
Hungarian. Famous for their beautiful music...and beautiful women.
Ahh, why don't I come in first thing in the morning and you can check out that left blinker for me.
Oh, sure okay.
I'll see you then...I look forward to it.
You're Nick's mother?
What, did you think he was raised by a pack of wolves? Don't be misled by the haircut.
I'm just tired.
All right, well get to bed early and don't let anybody in. Bye.
Go to your room. And you...I don't suppose your father gave you permission to pierce your ears, did he?
Not exactly.
Well just don't shave your legs...he'll never let you visit us again if I send you home hairless and full of holes.
Shelly's sick...I have to get to the bottom of this whole thing and get back there.
She'll be all right baby.
Yeah...right, it's pointless to worry.
Bye Aunt Rose.
Bye Niece, Vada.
Who knew that when I started working in the finest foreign car shop in LA, I would also find the light of my life.
Yeah, well he left out a couple of steps, ah look, I've gotta get back to these bills, Phil will you help Vada get settled?
Come on...I'll show you where you're gonna stay.
Then you'll be all set.
Sounds like you're very organized.
No, there's no problem, Dr. Helburn just needs to have his oil changed.
Oh I see, 'cause usually that doesn't require such a lengthy consultation.
What's with the touching, why was he touching you?
He wasn't touching me he was just...gesturing...
He was caressing.
Phil for God sake.
God? No I didn't think you'd want to invoke God Rose, because he saw even more than I did. ROSE Look Phil, if you want the rights of a husband, you're gonna have to ask me something but if not, you're gonna have to get accustomed to the rights of what you are.
Oh...what's that?
Right now? An intimate border with...mechanical skills.
Hi!
Oh, Hi, how's the investigation going?
Oh, yeah, sure, help yourself.
Anyone with taste, anyone with breeding.... A gentleman, would choose British racing green, with maybe a tan interior...but when you buy a red car, with a black interior and wire wheels, you have one thing on your mind and one thing only and I'm too much of a gentleman to say what that one thing is...in front of the children.
We may go out for coffee after the meeting so don't expect us before midnight.
There's plenty of fruit.
You know where the fire extinguisher is.
Wait, are you saying that I don't appreciate?
I'm saying he asked me out for coffee, like a real date, when was the last time you did that?
Wha...what do you mean? We have a date every night.
No, that's not a date, a date is when I don't cook.
Yes, what kind of arrangement? I'd be very interested to know what kind of an arrangement we have.
You know exactly...what kind it is. Come on Rose...what do you want from me?
I don't want anything you don't wanna give me.
I think this place is just fine.
You know how I feel about you.
You like the way I cook...you think I make out a great invoice. PHIL You and Nick and...and this...this garage are my whole life...I love you. Sure you don't have the greatest taste in music...but there's not another woman who could look so sexy in that smock. What I'm try... what I'm trying to sa...
You really think I look sexy in this smock?
Is that a yes?
Vada!! Vada runs and jumps into Phil's arms Look at you, oh hi, hi, hi!! How are you? You look great, how's Shelly? Your dad?
They're great.
How about Nick? Did he take good care of you?
He was very polite, worth the entire five dollars.
Uh huh, well...good to know. Phil hands Nick a 5 note
She lives here too?
Ahh, that's right, like one big happy family. This is Nick's room and uhh....
But...are you engaged or something?
Dating, seriously dating. You're thirsty, want something to drink? Sure you do, it's been a long trip.
Sounds like you have a fear of commitment, Uncle Phil.
That's ridiculous, I'm...I'm very, umm, what do you call it?
Committed?
Committed.
So does that mean that you sleep here every night?
Yes, it does.
Well then that's not exactly dating is it.
Vada, I know that traditionally you're not supposed to do a lot of these things before you're officially married...but these are very, very special circumstances.
I had to be, I only have five days. So just point me in the right direction and....
I'll do better than that. I'll send you off with your own private guide.
Lock the door.
Bye.
Uhh sweetie, I wou... I wou...I wou...
Don't worry, I'll do it in my own subtle way.
I feel like before I can talk to him I have to see his face.
How's this for a solution. We'll take a drive over to his place, you can introduce yourself....
I'd like to see his house but...I don't know if I'd have the nerve to just go up and knock on his door. I don't think I can go through with it.
Then we'll keep driving...you'll decide.
Do you think I should tell my dad about Jeffrey Pommeroy?
I don't know, he's got an awful lot on his mind right now.
Maybe.
Then again, your dad's got his own memories and he's got his own life now...I think this is a secret just between you and your mom.
A secret, I like that.
This is it I guess.
Well, I've come this far...the least I can do is knock on the door.
You want me to come with?
I should do this myself.
Okay...take your time...I'll...I'll go for a walk around.
Okay.
No, you're the best and I don't want you talking to anybody on the plane.
Dad already gave me this lecture. He's gonna meet me at the airport, then we'll go for some pizza, then we'll have dinner in bed with Shelly.
Sounds great, well you give 'em both one of these for me.
Well Rose was being very thorough.
Was Rose.
Doctor Helburn, what a surprise. In the last couple of days we've changed your oil, realigned your brakes, balanced and rotated your tires, aligned your front end, and flushed out your entire cooling system, I really didn't expect to be seeing you for another three thousand miles.
Oh what can I say Phil, it's just that I feel so welcome here.
Okay, that does it, that does it, the strudel does it, first it's brakes then.... I mean I am not gonna let some Podiatrist with a Jaguar full of strudel come waltzing in here and....
I'm not a Podiatrist, I'm a Cardiologist.
Who cares? Rose, tell him we have an arrangement.
Well, wha...what kind of arrangement?
And you certainly shouldn't settle for anything less that you deserve.
You stay out of this, look, if I had a red XK150 with a black interior, I sure as hell wouldn't be handing out relationship advice.
I don't think the color of the interior is....
Rose this not the place to be having this...
Muh??
I'd consider it a personal favor.
What's that?
Ten bucks.
What's it for?
For the minibike fund.
Wow!
Well I know you're not crazy about taking Vada around tomorrow, so...I just want you to know I appreciate it though.
No problem.
You're a good man Nicholas.
Phil, I think you should consider... fades as Vada walks off
Thanks....
No THANKS!
He said it was a gift.
Yeah, RIGHT.
I don't need you to be telling me to...
TAXI!!!
My parents had a brief, but intensely fulfilling relationship. She's remained a woman of mystery to this day.
And you're gonna solve the mystery?
I got it all figured out, I know she went to Wilson High School, so first thing tomorrow, I'm gonna go there and get a copy of her yearbook. That way I can get the names of all the people she was in clubs with and found out who her friends were.
You know eavesdropping is a very unattractive habit.
I wasn't eavesdropping, I was overhearing.
I didn't ask for the money, Phil just gave it to me.
Well look, I know that all you care about is your precious minibike. It's obvious you have no sense of historical perspective, I think we're here.
Getting off please.
Excuse me, pardon, thank you, excuse me.
They obviously have no sense of historical perspective either.
It's not funny! I mean what am I gonna do? Without that yearbook I'm lost. I can't just walk around town looking for someone with a Wilson High School Letter sweater!!!
Vada.
WHAT??
Calm down! We just have to ask ourselves, where your books come from.
I don't mean to alarm you, but I'm getting a nose bleed from the altitude.
Just remember the needle in the haystack.
I never did understand that story, did someone find the needle or not?
What difference does it make?
A big difference, if someone found it we should keep looking, if they didn't we're just wasting our time.
Oh my gosh, here it is!
Look, here she is. Margaret Ann Muldovan  Newspaper, Literary magazine, French Club, Drama Club, Debate Club, Girls Basketball and Swim team. With Maggie's combo of good looks and talent, we're sure to be seeing her name in lights. She was gonna be famous.
Yearbooks always set you out for disappointment, I want mine to say: Nick probably won't amount to much, so don't be surprised if you never hear anything about him again. Can we go?...It smells like someone left their gym bag in here.
It's the leather bindings, I love the fragrance of vintage books.
I love the fragrance of chilidogs.
Don't forget, the girls change their names if they got married.
I'd never do that.
Get married?
Change my name.
What, you think the guy should change his name?
I don't think anybody should change their names, that way you can always find them when you need them.
What if you don't wanna be found?
Why do you argue with everything I say?
You saved a lot of lives, you should be very proud.
Umm, I'm trying to find out her greatest achievement.
You ratted on my mother??
Who are you? Hitler's hall monitor?
Care for a smoke?
This'll be great in my report, my mother was suspended for smoking.
I think it's cool.
You would.
You'd rather have a mother that's a member of the police state? Rules are made to be broken. Just ask him.
Just call us the &quot;dead end kids&quot;.
May I use the phone please.
Boy, you're really into this.
He is one of the great poets.
If he has a heart attack you're carrying the body down yourself.
At least it gives you plenty of exercise.
Look at it this way, however bad I feel, it isn't as bad as becoming extinct in a bottomless pit of tar.
And I thought I was weird.
You are weird. Let's just go.
Oh, no wait, I like that you bought me here.
Hey what do I care...I mean, consider the sorts, a chick from Pennsylvania, who wears a mood ring.
This isn't just a mood ring.
Does it work?
Well, it doesn't open cans or anything but it...it's sort of a reminder of a friend of mine.
Boyfriend?
Well he was a boy, he was my friend...he was my best friend. When we were kids we were gonna...move out here and move to the Brady Bunch.
Do you think your friend's up in Heaven now, looking down on you and watching you all the time?
Well, I hope he's not watching me all the time.
Let me see if it changes colors on me.
ehh...Okay...but be careful, it has a lot of sentimental value.
Maybe it'll fit my pinkie.
Don't force it, you'll break it.
I'm not gonna break it, I just wanna see it change colors.
I want it back now. I never should have taken it off, I want it back.
Hey relax, I'm not gonna break it.
Give it to me!
Come and get it.
Just give it to me!!
Just come and get it...right here!
DON'T, come on!!!
Woah, watch it!
DON'T!!!
Uh oh...
What do you mean &quot;Uh Oh&quot;???
...I dropped it.
In the tar??
It was an accident, I'll get you a new one.
Where are you going???
Owh...
What are you doing? You can't go in there!
Oh no?!?!?!
It's dangerous!!
Leave me alone!!
You mean, this ring?
Jerk! You IDIOT!!!
Never heard of her.
Montgomery Clift, wait 'till I tell Shelly.
Here's Judy Garland!
My mother stood on this very spot.
I'm afraid your feet won't fit in there.
That's 'cause I was cursed with the Sultenfuss Bear Claws. My hands fit.
Big deal.
What's he smoking?
What do you think?
Really?
Hey look!
This is a totally barbaric custom.
Right.
And you'd be my cousin?
Yeah I guess...sort of.
But we wouldn't really be related right?
Oh no, we wouldn't be from the same bloodlines or anything. We'd be like two total strangers who...accidentally had relatives that got married.
Good. I mean...
Marriage can really complicate things. So, aren't you gonna say anything about my earrings?
I already did, it's a totally barbaric custom...but on you, it looks good.
It's not his fault!
No...it was me. And I'm sorry mom, really, ju...just tell me what to do, I'll do anything.
No, but sometimes he drives a hearse.
He's an undertaker.
Maybe not...but maybe it does. If no one told me about this, I mean...maybe they're trying to hide something.
Like what?
Maybe this Jeffrey guy is...is my real father. I mean...look at me, I have the hair of a dead person and...and my nose, no one in my family has this nose, it could be the nose of...a...of a complete stranger,
That thing you said about your nose...it was a stranger's nose...well it's not...it's...I mean...it's yours...you know?
Nick?
Yeah?
This has been a real confusing day.
And I'm gonna use the movies when I give my report. Jeffrey says audiences love special effects.
You better ace it...you sacrificed our whole vacation.
...umm...Listen, I'm sorry...you had to sacrifice your entire vacation.
Some sacrifices are worth it.
You mean...it wasn't that terrible?
I wouldn't say it was terrible...it was...kind of...
An adventure?
Part adventure...part miracle.
Write me a poem?
VADA +++$+++
No?
I'll write you ten poems. Bye.
Goodbye, look in your backpack.
Thanks
Give it back Nicholas!
But we made a business deal.
What ever happened to a good oldfashioned favor huh?
Nicholas! What are you doing up?
I...ahhh...umm...I'm thirsty.
There's water in your bathroom.
I want juice!
Don't wake up Vada.
I won't.
If the fruit burst into flames I'll be prepared.
You're so clever.
You're grounded 'till you're fifty!
You're over reacting!
Make that sixty and I'm docking your allowance for two weeks.
MOM!
You think this is easy for me? You go out on the town and I get to be the bad guy. Look I don't want you to be some punk hoodlum delinquent but I can't do my job as a parent if you don't do your job as a kid.
Vada?
The poem is really about attitude. It's about not giving up and...it's easy to be overwhelmed sometimes but...that's when we should...force ourselves to push on.
Vada what about you, who have you come up with?
My mother.
Your mother?
I never met my mother.
Hey Vada. How's your report coming?
Great, I have so much to say, I hardly know where to start.
You know I've been rereading Virginia Woolf, I think she'd be a natural for you, she led a fascinating life.
Thanks, but I think I'm gonna stick to my mom, she led a fascinating life too.
I'm sure she did.
This is really very nice of you.
It's no problem, I had a mother once myself.
If it's in here at all, it's in the back two rows.
O.K. Thank you very much.
Happy hunting.
He's writing. Hello?
If you're selling Girl Scout cookies I'm borderline diabetic.
You're Alfred Beidermeyer aren't you?
Hi there...can I help you?
Are you Jeffrey Pommeroy?
Hello.
Hi.
What can I do for you?
Ehh...I'm staying at the chateau and the guy who runs the garage there said that you're the best Jag people in town...so uhm.
Well Enrique is great and...we are the best.
Then I have come to the right place.
I guess you have.
I'm Sam Helburn. Sam.
Rose.
Is it okay if I drink this?
It's okay with me, hi Kevin.
Well if it isn't Vada, the grasshopper girl.
Vada, he was giving you an easy out so you wouldn't have to write about your mother.
But I wanna write about her.
You're crazy, what was her big achievement? Did she invent gravity?
Noone invented gravity, it just exists.
Oh please, who do you think you're kidding? And where did she spy on the Russians from, here in Pennsylvania??
No, not here in Pennsylvania, she went to Russia undercover with her acting troupe and got a lot of highly sensitive secret plans sent back. Just when she was about to go home, she got caught, and they killed her.
All right, so when did she have you between all her acting and spying and getting caught?
That's simple. She was pregnant with me...when she went to Russia and she didn't know...and then when the Russians found out, they waited to shoot her 'cause you're not allowed to kill pregnant women anywhere in the world.
Hi.
Come on in!
That's okay.
It's just a corpse.
I know that.
You should be here when they bring in a body that's been dead for a couple of days, and they haven't found it yet, 'cause it was in an apartment, and noone came to visit, or floating in a river, and then the body starts turning this weird shade of green, you know, like watery pea soup? The arms and legs deteriorate first, the body looks like a raisin with four fat legs. Anyway, this is why I'm seriously considering cremation. Judy??
My mother can't have any more kids.
Neither can mine. She's dead. It's Shelly who's pregnant.
What are you staring at?
It's Kevin, I don't want him to see me.
See you? He can smell you from there.
Oh God, he's coming over here, act natural, totally natural.
What's the matter?
He likes you.
Likes me? He said I looked like a grasshopper.
Boys always pretend they hate you when they really like you.
That's ridiculous, so, if you really can't stand someone, then you pretend that you're really crazy about them?
I don't know. And I don't care, Kevin's a jerk and I don't like him anymore. He's all yours!
Hi.
Hi, wanna help me pick out wallpaper for my new room tomorrow?
ehh...I don't know I mean....
Then what did she do?
Well...I'm not supposed to talk about it, but since I'm gonna write about it I might as well tell you. She was a spy against the Russians.
So she had you in jail, in Russia?
Well actually I was born in Siberia and then they shot her and sent me home to my Dad.
Sure am, who are you?
I am Vada Margaret Sultenfuss. My mother was...
Maggie...Maggie's little girl.
I was hoping I'd get to meet you.
You mean, you knew about me?
Umm...can you come in for a minute?
I'd like to, thanks.
Bye. She looks a little like me when I was a little girl.
Does she?
I'm glad you're here.
You are?
Yeah, come on, let's talk.
We have this school assignment to write about someone we never met and I chose my mother. She was born in Los Angeles and since my uncle Phil moved out here I came in to visit him and then I looked at her high school yearbook and... and I called a few people and one guy said that she went to UCLA, another guy said that I should call Hillary Mitchell so....
Hillary Mitchell? How's she?
Oh she's great...she's a little crazy though. Anyway, Hillary said that you had a black Ford truck and this policeman I know got in touch with Motor Vehicles and...he gave me your address and here I am.
JEFFREY +++$+++
I told you it was a long story.
That's all right, you know what? You sound just sounded just like your mother...she told great stories. Stories with crazy accents and...special effects.
Special effects?
Yeah like, switching a lamp on and off when she was talking about lightning...audiences love stuff like that. And your mom knew how to work an audience.
I don't know very much about her...I was hoping that you could help me.
I'll try.
And she saved it.
Well, we didn't have a camera...so she just wrote the date on the bag and said, &quot;This will be out wedding album, this will be a day we will never forget.&quot; We never did.
Do you have any pictures if her?
I've got something better.
She's beautiful.
We performed on the beach one summer...ha...everything went wrong.
Would you like...eh...to have these movies?
More than anything in the world.
It's good to see Maggie again...and you.
Umm...didn't you ever wonder about me?
Well I didn't know about you until after she was gone.
I thought that...umm...maybe you'd be curious about how I turned out.
I'd say you turned out just fine.
I guess what I mean is, my mother married my dad after you...and then I was born, so I thought that...maybe you got divorced because of me.
Wait...woah...woah...wait a minute...Do you think I'm your father?
Well...
Honey I'd be proud to be your father, really. It just isn't so.
Maggie wanted to have a baby...and...umm...I didn't.
oh.
She didn't wanna miss out on anything...especially motherhood...it got to be a real problem with us.
Are you the Hillary Mitchell who went to school with Maggie Muldovan?
Maggie Muldovan? Did you...know her?
It's okay really, I was just a baby.
I'm sorry, it's just...I've been taking all these seminars to get in touch with my feelings and...sometimes it gets out of hand.
Thanks.
I remember Maggie...and your Dad too, you know we used to all pile into his old 54 Ford pickup. &quot;Chuck the Truck&quot; we used to call it.
His name's Harry Sultenfuss.
Oh. Ohhh?
What're you saying?
Ummmmm, look, I...I...
Are you saying my mother had another husband?
Oh honey, back then...people did crazy things.
They sure did! They got kicked out of school, they married truck drivers...these are my mother's greatest accomplishments? I'm sure glad I came all the way out here to find them out.
Hey you're not eating your meatloaf.
If I eat it I'll throw up.
Well you should at least try a little bit.
Then I'll throw up a little bit.
I don't know if I want to.
Vada I wanna ask you a favor, remember you can absolutely say no if you want to.
Oh, she's fine, she'll love her new room.
Look we react to every kick this baby gives, maybe Vada's trying to tell us something too.
Oh, Shell, that's ridiculous, where are my needle nosed pliers?
Listen, if a boy wants to do homework with you, it really means he didn't have nerve to ask you out on a date, so you'll get your homework together and pretend to be studying, and the next thing you know you're ordering pizza and talking about your favorite movie stars.
Well if there was an article about it I'm sure she did. She was always reading.
Yes I know, it runs in the family. New book?
Never heard of him.
How about a nice glass of milk?
And some taco chips so I can dunk.
I told you about the pumpkin didn't I?
No.
Ah, well, I bought her this huge pumpkin for Halloween, but she couldn't bear to carve it so she saved it for weeks, and it ended up under the Christmas tree.
She can spread her wings, right here in Pennsylvania. You don't send a child alone to Los Angeles, she could come back with her ears pierced, her legs shaved and God knows what else.
She is not a child Harry, she is a young woman, she's on the brink of...
Disaster, disaster lurks behind every palm tree.
You're being narrowminded.
Yeah and they forgot to ask for one who wasn't having hormone surges.
Oh come on Harry, we're talking about five days here.
I really think we're going overboard for just a simple school assignment.
Reason? What reason?
Phil's moving to LA, Grammoo's passing, the baby being born, Vada's report, I think...
I'm sorry I couldn't come pick you up honey.
I was pushing as fast as I could.
Maybe he's wet?
Maybe he's hungry.
Vada, try to scrunch these chairs together a little more.
Dad, I'm trying. The chairs, they won't scrunch.
I got a card from your Uncle Phil in Los Angeles today, said he went body surfing.
I don't know if I can picture Uncle Phil body surfing.
Do what?
Well the thing is your room is right next door to ours, and so we thought, well, I thought, if you were willing we might move you to Grammoo's room, and use your old room for the nursery. See we're gonna be up half the night with a newborn and there'll be a lot of noise....
You want me to move?
Well not far, just down the hall. Plus Grammoo's room's a lot bigger, and you get a view of the whole neighborhood.
Okay, no problem.
Okay thanks, atta girl.
Visualize a spare?
Well you know what I mean.
So, what's on your mind?
Me? What makes you think there's something on my mind?
You're passing up Archie Bunker to go bowling, you've gotta have an angle.
No, I just thought it'd be nice if the two of us had an evening out so we could... talk.
Shelly's already told me all about sex.
She told me too, I mean, she told me she told you about sex, I personally new about sex long before I met Shelly.
I figured you did.
Ahh, strike, not, not bad at all. No, this talk isn't about sex, it's, well there've been a lot of changes, and I know you're upset about losing your room, but the baby's gotta go somewhere.
No it's okay, I understand, really.
Honey that's very mature, I'm proud of you Vada.
Maybe I should just move to China. One kid per family, that way you don't lose your room.
Hey, why don't you just keep your room and we'll put the baby in the back yard.
Don't do that, you've got the whole garage.
Oh yeah, rightbetween the power mower and the weed killer.
Dad I'm kidding, you can have the room.
Seriously?
Seriously.
Great.
Dad, when a boy likes you, does he pretend that he doesn't like you? And if he pretends that he doesn't like you how can you tell that he likes you?
What boy likes you?
It's just a question, it's not about anybody.
So you're saying...What are you saying??
Honey, ahh, guys don't wanna appear over anxious, so if you think there's a boy that might like you, let him know that you like him, so he won't feel he's taking such a risk when he's thinking of asking you out.
The Collected Works of Alfred Biedermeyer
Her favorite poet.
There's still a big spot on the floor.
Okay, we need wallpaper paste. Hey Cece!
Oh, is there anything else you remember, how did you propose? Was it romantic?
Well, I kinda just blurted it out over a root beer float.
She was talented, but honey I wish I could help you a little more, it's just that your mother and I had kind of a whirlwind courtship, she came to town with this traveling theater group, I proposed on our second date, two weeks later we were married and almost nine months later you were here and she was gone.
Was it a nice funeral?
Oh yes, lovely funeral, Gernaldi brothers did a beautiful job, lots of pink roses...I used the white hearse. Hey, how about this flowered wallpaper for your room?
You were just having a fight about me. Wouldn't you like to hear my opinion?
Of course.
I think that if I'm old enough to accept a new baby, and if I'm old enough to accept a new room, I'm old enough to go to California.
Honey I know it's fun to think about these things but....
I already bought a ticket.
What??
I used my own money and got a great deal, it's a Q47NR five day fare, which means that I have to change planes in Dallas and stay over a Saturday.
No nuns, got it.
And no boys, promise me, oh those LA people are all so corrupt you'll end up pregnant and on drugs...and don't come running to me when you wake up in the city morgue with a tag on your toe having been beaten up into an unrecognizable pulp by some surfer...and DON'T make eye contact, it communicates an implied vulnerability.
What does that mean?
It means...I'm a paranoid nitwit who's never let his baby girl out of his sight for the simple reason he's a paranoid nitwit. So why don't you just say &quot;Oh Dad&quot; and get on the damn plane already?
Bye Dad, I'll miss you.
Thanks, I needed that.
I'll be back in 137 hours.
Have fun.
Hello? Sultenfuss Parlor.
Hi Dad.
Hi honey.
I just called to say that I'm having a really great time.
Good! You should go over and watch some Ted Carson.
Actually, I wanna see Jeffrey Pommeroy.
Yeah.
Totally groovy huh?
Totally.
Ask him if he needs a good tuba player.
I will. How's Shelly?
Oh she's fine...ahh...umm the doctor just...ehh...told her to stay in bed and get a little rest and...'n stay quiet...just...just to make sure that...
Okay...bye daddy, I love you.
I love you too sweetie, bye.
Give my love to Shelly.
What happened to Shelly?
She just had a baby that's all.
We have a baby?
Uh huh, a boy, you've got a new brother.
Can I see him?
You can do anything you want. You're his sister.
It's too bad about your mom. At least she went peacefully, I've seen a lot of people go out the hard way.
What do you remember about her.
Well, we worked on the school paper together. I remember when the Legion of Decency declared Rebel without a Cause unfit...boy...that Jim Backers, what an actor uh? What an actor.
Wow, you walked out with my mother?
You kidding? he picks up a picture and shows Vada and Nick
She was the uhh...first girl ever suspended for smoking.
Suspended from school, my mother??
Everyone was really surprised when Maggie was turned in, she got kicked out for two weeks.
I'm not authorized to trace licenses for civilians.
His name is Jeffrey Pommeroy and he used to drive a 54 Ford pickup, black with red interior. Please?
Yeah, this is Sergeant Tanaka from Holenbeck, I need a current address for a Jeffrey....
Pommeroy.
Pommeroy...he may or may not be driving a black 54 Ford Pickup. Monday.
I'm leaving Sunday.
Could you hold on for a second?
Do you wanna be a hall monitor all your life?
Hello, I'm gonna need this right now...this guy...well we think he might be going after the governor. Twenty minutes? Fine.
What kind of sleazoid geek would turn her in?
I would do it again in a minute.
Well maybe you should join a hippie commune. But let me tell you something. Sooner or later it's gonna be your turn to take out the garbage.
What about giving the other guy a break.
What about living in the real world pal?
Give us a break. All you have to do is make a phone call.
I thought I told you to lose this guy.
Look, sergeant I know I said some things last time that I shouldn't have said at all but...
I think the phrase was &quot;Sleazoid Geek&quot;.
I'm sorry okay...we gotta find this guy because...he knew Vada's mom and he could tell her stuff that no one else knows.
You're still asking me to break the law.
So charge him with something...who's gonna know?
Me, I'll know!
Excuse me I asked you a question.
I'm not supposed to talk to strangers, not even nuns.
You're Vada right?
How did you know my name?
Your Uncle Phil told me.
Where is he?? He was supposed to meet me.
Hey relax, you think I kidnapped him or something?
This is California, anything is possible.
Well if I was looking for a victim, I definitely wouldn't pick your Uncle Phil who outweighs me by about 150 pounds, besides, who would I ask for ransom? You??
Are you suffering from a chemical imbalance or is it just an attitude problem.
My only problem is that your Uncle Phil is giving me five bucks to pick you up but I don't get paid 'till delivery.
Gee, that is a problem.
Put that down, I'll...I'll call the police!
What are you gonna do? Tell them that...a polite person helped carry your bag?
I don't think you're very polite.
Yeah, well I don't think you're very grateful. A lot of people in your position would say &quot;thank you&quot;.
THANK YOU.
Don't mention it.
I don't even know your name.
You had to remind me?
Are you writing a poem?
No, I'm writing to the phone company because they keep charging me for calls to Caracas, Venezuela...do you know any know anybody in Caracas, Venezuela?
Umm, where do you want this?
Oh, just put it over there.
Do you still teach?
No, no, no, I gave it up ten years ago...actually it gave me up.
My mother took this course with you at UCLA...&quot;The Foundations of Poetic Thought&quot;.
UCLA? My cardigan sweater period.
Her name was Maggie Muldovan.
Ohhhhh.
People said she looked like me.
I was drinking a little in those days. I'm drinking a little these days too.
I'm sure she found your lectures fascinating.
Oh I doubt it...lectures are notoriously boring.
No they're not. I wanna be a writer, I wanna be just like you.
Humph, meee?? My dear, this is not a country that rewards poetry, this is a country that rewards gas mileage, besides, people don't read poetry anymore, they watch television. Don't be a poet, be a TV repairman.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Did you see what the First Bank stock opened at ? Very impressive.
Actually it's down .2 from the last quarters highest, but I think it will pick up.
I am equally impressed with your knowledge of the market. How long have you been with the company now ?
Four years. I came over from the Capitol merger in Chicago six months ago.
Were you involved in the incident where that guy killed himself in his office ? I am sorry. Perhaps we should have dinner tonight to.... discuss your future.
We start with the top and work our way down. We start with the high salaries and then just let the little people go. No need to make the blue collars go crazy.
I disagree. I think we should start looking into the severance pay schedules and make sure the people with families can.....
Look, Miss. I know you're still upset about that incident in Chicago, but understand, this is a cut throat business. We don't have time to play nursemaid to every single Tom Dick and Harry.
Maybe we should make the time. Especially considering the sixteen million dollars we have set aside expressly to settle law suits from these very events.
Good golly miss molly you are looking good today !
Thank you.
I meant him.
Just look at this tie. You could fry an egg off that orange, yow. Have you ever considered the Jerry Garcia line of ties ?
Excuse me, gentlemen
Come on, I'm serious. Look at Wilma. She's this frail little thing, and Fred, I mean Fred Flintstone is this BIG guy. He has to be hung like a horse, and THAT's why Wilma puts up with his B.S.
I've never heard the Flintstones reduced to a sexual exploitation quite like that. You're funny.
Listen, I was thinking, you know. Would you go, it's I think you're...
Do you want to go out with me ?
It's sounds so much better when you say it. I'm semi traditional here, and it's important that I ask. Will you go out with me ?
Yes.
Really ? On a date ?
Yes.
This is too easy, I mean I had a speech prepared, then I even wore these pants because I could get on my knees to grovel.
As appealing as that sounds...
Dinner at my place then ? Say, seven o'clock ?
Sure.
Hello.
Hi. I brought some wine.
Thank you, won't you come in ?
Thanks.
What an incredible view !
Thank you.
Are you okay ?
Yes, Excuse me for a second.
You have a real nice place... how can you afford this working as a temp ?
Well, I make good investments, I lead a double life as a secret agent.. I....I ... I have very rich parents. I have always had a lot of money.
If they're so rich, why are you working at all ?
I just want to have something that's mine, you know ? It's like living off of their money is fun and all. There are certain materialistic needs that I have that can only be satisfied with that extra little scratch.
Like what, a Porsche ? A Ferrari ?
Would that impress you ? I mean you're the kinda woman that probably has Ferrari written all over your personal ad.
Actually, I'm more interested in the man behind the wheel more than the manufacturer. So what is it that you have that makes you a materialistic fool ?
My own sit down Star Wars arcade game. Wanna play it ?
Okay, now go under go under it ! Shoot Vader's Tie Fighter ! Get Him Get Him !
Yahoo !!!!!
Not now, Mom.
Wake up, we're in trouble.
Hey... did we uhm, you know....
No ! Just get up. This is serious.
Hey, you ! What the hell is going on ?
What the hell kind of cop are you ?
I think we should follow him...
I just need to sit and think for a second.
Are you okay ?
Fine, fine, I feel like a chicken McNugget.
The roof is coming down.... hey, you.... Which door gets us out of here ??
Which one, this door is locked !
I'm talking to you asshole !
Maybe all that testosterone plugs his ears.
You don't have to sound so emphatic.
We just having our first date when you showed up.
How's your foot ?
"How's your foot" ? This guy tried to kill us and he put us in this place, and you want to know how his foot is ?
Jesus Christ ! I'm just a temp for Christ sakes !
Shut up ! It's me.
I think I'm very quickly getting over my phobia of public urination.
What ?
Nothing.
It's that asshole Zach isn't it ?
Zach from work ?
Are you okay ? Any holes ? I mean aside from the one's that nature gave you ?
I'm fine.
Hey Matty, don't wait for me or anything.
I was thinking maybe we should try this dinner thing again, but maybe the Epcot version will be open by then....
Sweet Jesus I never dreamed I'd be glad to see Central Park at night.
We made it !
What now ?
I want to go to sleep for about a month.
No, idiot. Where do we go now ?
Where are we ?
Thanks a lot. I always wanted to know what it was like to see my life flash before my eyes for the one hundredth time tonight.
Come to the rescue again I see.
He was right behind me !
Who was that guy anyway ?
Hey good lookin' ! What'cha got cookin' ?
Hey buddy. You okay ?
Of course I am. I feel the testosterone coursing through my veins. Now that I've gotten the stitches removed from my arm and the chiropractor fixed my back.
Ow. Son of a ..... Did I ever tell you my theory on Star Wars as Porn ?
No.
Well, I think if you take several lines out of context, Star Wars becomes a very sexual movie. I mean listen to this. "Luke, at that speed will you be able to pull out in time ?" or "You came in that thing ? You're braver than I thought".
No sir. I was just getting , well you know. Water. We weren't talking about sex or anything else except Star Wars. Just saying hello. I think I'm gonna go now.
Why don't you shut up now.
I'm going to go ahead and go now.
He has a phone pole sticking in his chest, I think we don't need an autopsy.
I'm just looking for our best interests. May I have the tapes, Bruce ?
Hey, Mr. Executive. Buy you a drink sailor ?
We have new "guests" for the park. I have a file on them. May I see Bruce ?
He's been expecting you.
No. I was just curious if what I heard about you is true ?
What did you hear ?
Only that you were one of the finest hit men in the mob. That if you wanted a good clean kill, that Johnny Tortelli was the man for the job.
I was.
Might I ask why you no longer work for the mob ?
There was a bit of confusion on one of my last jobs.
I thought, and correct me if I'm wrong, but weren't you trying to play both sides ?
What are you looking for ? A blow job ?
No. I am not a homosexual.
Then what do you want ?
Have you ever considered running your own "Park" ? I mean, since you will not be returning to your former profession.
I didn't think even this company could afford to write off enough to build a new "Park".
We can't.
Are you happy with your salary and position ?
No I am not.
I had hoped you would say that. I have a proposal for you.....
I'm listening.
So who are these people with the Boss ?
Just a temp who pissed me off and a girl who turned me down for the night of her life.
Aren't you the bitter one.
How long till the drug wears off ?
We should have another fifteen minutes at least.
Bruce has just awaken.
What ?????
What is Bruce doing ?
I don't know.....
What was that ?
He must have had a gun stashed. God damn it !
We can't afford too many surprises.
He'll never make it out of the park alive. I promise you that....
Will he make it out ?
Of course, this one's a gimme. Just be patient, even Ol' Bruce can't outwit some of these traps.
What's next ?
I have a turn for the worse for the team !
I do believe Mr. McCray will be most pleased with the tape of this one.
I've got five bucks that says someone dies here and now.
I'll see that bet.
Aren't you going to switch exits on him again ?
Why ? The crocks are all going for the dead crock. There's no fun in it. Besides we've got plenty more for them. The night is young....
Maybe you should get over fears.
Well, Mr. Parker it seems that your is not the wardrobe of choice tonight. I'm quite confident that my tie is looking better than yours.
Look he figured it out !
I can see your small business ! Look at it it's so small.
Look ! Look !
Shit, I forgot about them. Well, I guess the boss man wasn't as tough as I thought.
I don't know. Maybe we should watch the tape to be sure.
You're paying the bills.
Was that the Old Man ?
Yes. I think he's feeling sick or something.
There ! There ! Did you see ! They're still alive !
I can see that but where ?
That is repugnant. You have the habits of a goat.
<<belch>>
Ach ! How will you know if they've made it ?
The room will fill to the top, then if they wind up in the next room, they lived, if not, they're dead.
Thank you very much.
Goddamn it Bruce, you've cost me about thirty dollars so far.
Okay, I have five that says THIS is it for them.
I think I'll see hat action.
So what's next ? No one's ever made it this far before.
He's got two chices.either it's the Bowling Alley from Hell or Alice in Murderland. See this ? Even Bruce knows that no one can make it out of here in one piece.
What the ... ?
What happened ?
The power went out in half the park.
How can this happen ?
I don't know. I think that a power grid just needs reset. Don't get your panties in a bunch. I'll go down and reset it.
Go in there ? What if Bruce finds you ?
Yeah, right. He's stuck all the way over here
Zachory ! My boy, how goes the carnage down on 44 ?
Not that well sir. I believe we have a few too many soft hearts in the building. Did we aquire a bank from Chicago or a charity ?
Relax, son. They'll learn in time that you don't fuck with First Bank. This is the real deal and we aim to keep it strong. My Daddy always told me that Only The Strong Survive.
I thought that was Darwin, sir. Or perhaps Nietzsche ?
Perhaps it was. I was in boarding school for so many years, it's hard to remember. Do you have the tape of the latest exploits from my favorite hobby ?
Yes sir, I do. Last night's, fresh from the Park.
I have to say, that I am glad you are such an amazing kiss ass.
Thank you , sir. Sir, may I ask you a question ?
Of course.
While I am not morally against these little, shall we say "hobbies", as long as I am on the payroll, but why not something like a yacht club ?
Zach, how old are you, son ?
I am thirty two.
And how much do we pay you annually ?
I make roughly four hundred thousand a year.
Zach my boy, I can spend your yearly salary in a blink. I have had that kind of money all of my life. If I wanted to, I could fly to Paris for the afternoon. My father formed this company over seventy years ago. When my brother became mentally challenged, it was put in my charge. Now running a bank of this size is very stressful. I need to relax on what little down time I have. A yacht club will not quite make my blood pressure decline. Understand ?
Yes sir.
I have entrusted you with a great many things. In your tenure with this company you have seen and heard things that could upset the very economic world in which we live. I think this kind of loyalty should be rewarded.
Thank you, sir.
Thank you, sir. I was really hoping for shares, or possibly cash... but this, this is really personal.
Son, let's watch the tape.
That was rather.... disappointing.
I had suggested that they tone down the program so that the "guests" might take longer to expire.
I want more action. I want to see more ingenuity than that. I want to see the injured man out wit the machines !
But sir, most of the people we are putting into the "Park" are accountants that embezzle or investment bankers. They are not known for their physical or intellectual prowess.
I don't believe Ol' Bruce is having as much fun with this as he once did. He still insists on the "guests" being of the more nefarious type.
That's right, sir. He does a thorough background check and if he finds them to be criminal or guilty of embezzlement, then he will put them in the park. He has refused the last three suggested "guests".
What about that time when the mail room kid was accused of stealing and we put him in the "Park" ? Wasn't that a computer glitch ?
Yes sir. It turns out we put an innocent man into the "park" and he was not the one who stole from the stamp machine. That is also about the time when Bruce began refusing.
That mail room kid was the longest lasting "guest" yet ! Maybe we can alter the computer records and make another "guest" from the more athletic of our staff.
Bruce may still refuse. It is my belief that he is becoming more belligerent.
I propose we consider a hostile take over. Perhaps Ol' Bruce is in need of a new job opportunity.
What do you mean sir ?
What if we were to put Bruce into the Park as a Guest ?
Sir ?
I'll bet that would be the Park run of the century !
Sir, he created the Park. He would know how to circumvent any of the traps.
I'm willing to bet that even the creator can't out wit his creation.
What then sir ? What would we do with the park with out Bruce ?
Do you think the assistant, what's his name...
John, sir.
Yes, do you think he would like a raise and a new position ?
Sir, this is not like firing any employee. We can't predict what will happen.
That my boy, is the best part. Life on top of the world is boring... predictable. If I wanted life without chances, I never would have paid for Murderland. Now go. Make a formal proposal and see about the assistant. Find out if it's viable.
Zachary.
Zach, my boy ! How is tonights adventure going ?
Good, sir.
Is it as good as I hope it is ?
Better, sir.
One moment dear...
Sir ?
Not you Zach. Remember, my wife is asleep upstairs, dear. Zach, am I gonna like what I see on this tape ? Is it the grandest of all the Park's tapes ?
Yes sir. It will be the best of your collection, I assure you.
Fantastic ! A little faster sweetheart.
Sir ? We're moving them right along as fast as we can.
Have that tape on my desk tomorrow morning. First.... thing...
Well ?
Fire the whole division.
Excuse me, sir ?
Fire the whole division. We're moving more of the operations division into Manhattan anyway. Whoever is left over from the conversion is no longer needed. We already have all the key people here. Anyone else is expendable.
Sir, I came from the Chicago offices myself, and if I may say, sir, there are still some very good....
If you want, I can fire you and have someone else who has the balls terminate these worthless people. Which will it be ?
We will start work on it now sir.
I didn't think he'd make it past Scraps.
Let's just see if he can make it into round two....
Don't.
What ?
Don't eat at the console.
What ? Are you my mother ?
It's my control board and I don't want it acting squirrelly because you dropped a few crumbs into the keyboard, no put the shit away.
Yes, sir Mom.
Never underestimate a man who cheats on his taxes. His file says he is an avid jogger.
You've got to be kidding me ! His lazy ass couldn't win the special Olympics.
He'll never get it right. Try the Log Ride !
Not yet.
But, he's...
I said NO.
Stop the hydraulics.
Got it.
Johnny, let's get the cleanup started.
You've got it boss. One more mangled body to the East River, coming up !
Hand me the 3/8ths.
Here. Am I ever going to get to run the controls for one these capers ?
When I think you're ready.
When will that be ?
When you are ready.
Look, you're going to have to start trusting me sometime. I am a trustworthy person.
Trust is earned not given away.
RESPECT is earned not given away, trust is given away to anybody.
Not down here. I'll start trusting you when I feel there the time is right. It's not personal, it's just survival.
I've been working with you for four years, don't you think that's worthy of at least one turn at the controls ?
No.
I made my bones on the street, you know. I did Riglioni in his own house. I was made in the Family, okay.
And who bailed you out when a hit was put on you, you sorry sack of shit. Who put you up ? Who gave you a job ?
You did.
That's right. Now who needs to trust who ? Trust me, when you're ready to work the controls, I'll put you in the hot seat.
What's wrong ?
I just want to double check the facts.
I see here that this guy has made deposits into his own account for the last four months. Each one in the amount of $100,000. He then puts in deposits into his girlfriends account.
So ?
He already had a balance of $600,000.
He probably has a history of this shit.
Yeah, maybe.... Let's start the background checks. Let's see where they live and what kind of security systems....
Matthew lives on the Upper West Side, kinda posh for a temp don't you think ?
Any priors ? Any police record ?
Checking..... Hah ! He has a shit load of unpaid parking tickets...
Parking tickets ? That's it ?
Yeah, but we're talking 43.
A real criminal.... I still think that's our in... What about her ?
Checking........
Why don't you just stop fucking around and just die !
I'm sick of playing. I've got a better idea.
You think I'm that easy, Bitch ?
For once in your life, shut the fuck up.
Are you Matthew Parker ?
Yes, can I help you ? Maybe a donut or something ?
That's very funny, sir. You are under arrest.
Hey , Hey !
Kojak here is arresting me for unpaid parking tickets.
43 unpaid parking tickets, sir.
NO. Don't. You'll get a shock from hell if you touch that seat.
Who are you anyway ? What the hell is this ?
Just shut the fuck up.
OUCH !!! GODDAMMIT that hurts !!!!
I told him not to sit down in there.....
NO ! Don't open ANY of them ! They're all wrong. Just wait.
Wait for what ? i don't wanna alarm you but we'll be the special at the International House of Pancakes in about five minutes !
Trust me, if you open any door, you'll be dead a whole lot sooner.
Okay, NOW I'm worried. What exactly is on the other side of the door ?
Either you'll be shot with bullets, impaled with a large spike, or nailed like a super model. Basically you're fucked any way you go.
And that's different than this because...... ?
Hey buddy, thanks for the help back there !
I don't help criminals.
Give me one good reason why I don't plug you right here, right now ?
Because of my charming personality ?
Is it over ?
Not quite....
That's nice. I think I lost my wallet.
I'd get out of the water if I were you.
Why ?
I thought you made this place ?
I did, but this room has four exits and only one opens, it's up to them in the control room. There's one right over there. The exit light is on, but he can change it.
What's next Walt ?
A dragon.
So what happened ? Did you have a real bad theme park experience as a kid and this is your revenge ?
Be very, very quiet...
Are you hunting wabbits ?
The room has sound sensors. If you wake it up, it breathes fire.
You were one of those guys that played Dungeons & Dragons with real swords, weren't you.
An elevator ?
Yeah, we're about a hundred an fifty feet below the subway stations. We're heading a little higher up now.
It's fine thanks.
Why don't you tell us a little about yourself ?
Look pipsqueak, I'm having a real bad day here and we're just starting.
That's not to tough.
Look...
Issues ??? This guy has the damn subscription to every psychotic issue I've ever heard of.
That's cute asshole.
Hey, try swimming. It works.
What the fuck are you talking about.
Swimming, you know, like in water, moron.
You okay ?
Ow...
This probably isn't the bet time, but I really have to pee. Can I pee ?
Knock yourself out.
Thanks...
Is it over ?
Almost. Look, you two get out of here.
Where ?
In the jail cell is a spiral staircase. It leads to the surface. Take it all the way up.
He's the liaison for McCay. Listen go. Go now.
Don't have to tell me twice.
You have 43 unpaid parking tickets, sir. You have the right to remain silent, anything you say can & will be held.....
What's going on ?
Please don't be alarmed, Ma'am.
Where are we ?
No time. Get him up.
Why should we trust you ?
I made this place..... now listen to me. I'll get out of this room, we have bigger troubles than this....
What about Matt ?
Leave him, he's dead.
No !
Why don't you tell us what the fuck is going on ?
Why should I ?
You said we were criminals, what did you mean ?
You're both embezzling. I saw the records.
Embezzling ? I'm not embezzling !
Maybe not, but he is and fucking him makes you an accessory. He stole your passwords.
I'm not fucking him..
Now where do we go ?
I don't know.
How do we get out of this room ?
We wait. This is an elevator.
Now what the hell are we supposed to do ?
We have to climb up that.
There's enough force to push you twenty feet in the air. It won't kill you, but it will hurt.
You have issues. I mean you have some serious issues that need to be ironed out.
Come on, it works.
Give me a fucking.....
So where does this lead ?
No where. We've got about seven minutes before this thing slams into a concrete wall.
So what do we do ?
I'm working on it.
Who the hell are you anyway ? What is this place ?
It's called Murderland. It's paid for by First Bank.
First Bank ? But how ?
It's a tax write off for John C. McCay.
McCay knows ?
Knows ? He watches every "Guest" on tape. This whole place is here for his sick amusement. And no so are we.
What are you doing ?
I'm leaving.
Hey ! Hey ! I'm talking to you !
What ?
You took an awful big risk back there.
Look I don't even wanna know how I got in this mess. I just want out. It has nothing to do with me.
If you hadn't started boffing that weasel with an attitude, you wouldn't be here.
I'M NOT BOFFING MATTHEW !
Then you didn't give him any passwords of any kind ?
NO ! I wouldn't do that.
Then he isn't embezzling either is he ?
Why would he ? His parents are rich.
So you're telling me you were set up ? I knew something was wrong.
I'm not listening.
Hey ! I'm still your best chance to get out of here alive.
You've been doing a bang up job so far. Right now Matt is probably dead and it's your fault.
It won't take them that long to figure out we weren't on the train when it wrecked.
Not listening !
Look, there's another train. They'll send it through here. You're fucked if you don't STOP and listen to me.
I'm listening.
At the subway station, we can get into a power duct that my little shit head of an assistant doesn't know about.
What's the trick here ?
We drown.
Obviously, but what's the way out ?
Once the room depletes it's oxygen, we have about 30 seconds, then a door opens on the bottom over there. Then we swim out.
How long till the room fills ?
I'd say about thirty to forty minutes. Give or take a few.
So why this ?
Excuse me ?
Why did you build this whole place ?
Is this really the time ?
Do you have something better to talk about ?
I just graduated from M.I.T. in engineering. That's when John McCay hired me.
He hired you to build this place ?
I was hired in and started to do the boring old work routine. I was originally brought in as a technical advisor. First Bank had sponsored my scholarships.
I was lured by all the money and I truly did convince myself that what I did was for justice. Since then, McCay has wanted to put anyone he can down here.
But how do you know if the people are guilty ?
I do a very thorough background check. I go through police files, personel files, anything.
Then how come Matt and I showed up as guilty ?
It was there, clear as day. I saw the computer records. Matthew has been fed wiring money to his personal account. I just knew something was wrong.
So you may have been duped this whole time. Killing innocent people, that must make you feel ..., how does it feel ?
There are other things too. They had everyone start taking those psych tests. Did they make you take one ?
Yeah, everyone has to when they get hired.
There's more to it than trying to see if you'd steal from the company or if you'd lie or cheat.
What do you mean ?
McCay had a lot money done into researching psychological reactions to questions that are seemingly unrelated, but reveal everything. Like criminal impulses, homicidal impulses.....
And you believe that ?
I've since changed my mind. I designed this place, based on my belief that I was doing what the legal system couldn't or wouldn't do. McCay had the company buy the property and they pay the bills. It's a tax write off. On the books everything looks kosher. I have an office on 5th that I haven't seen in ten years.
Doesn't anyone notice all the people missing ?
This is New York. No one notices anyone. Not even when someone disappears. At first it was the guy who was caught trying to steal McCay's Jag. Then it was dirty accountants that tried to walk away with millions. The Old Man got such a rush from it, I thought that he would start trying to send me people who used the copier after hours.
How can you just take a life ? I mean it's a life, life is so precious. How does it feel ?
What do you do with the company, if I might ask ?
I'm in charge of the conversions. When First Bank buys another smaller bank, I'm in charge of converting them to our systems and way of doing things.
I... I .....
You didn't think about it did you ? I read your file. It said you had a nervous breakdown.
I wanted to let his family know....
Know what ? That it was your fault ?
It wasn't my fault. I was just part of a team. I was doing my job...
So was I. So don't give me any shit. Your business is just as bad. At least I'm up front about it. You kill people slowly. Your corporate take overs can decimate a families livelihood over a year sometimes two. Now you know how it feels.
Just remember, hold your breath as long as you can. Then go right over to that corner. The door will open and go in and up.
Okay.
You okay ?
Fine...
If we can get to through the next room, we'll be at a junction for a power grid.
Let's go.
This is cute.
Yeah, real cute. The storm is fake, but the lightening is real.
Okay Mr Inventor, how do we avoid it ?
You don't. It's random, there no trick.
Great...
Where are we going ?
The Brooklyn Bridge.
I don't get it.
It's poison gas, this is the antidote. Drink it.
Do you know where you're going ?
Yes.
What was that ?
Girder, watch your head.
What about you ?
There's one more person here for me to visit.
Just stop it. End it here.
It'll end. It'll end with him and McCay. Then the park shuts down. Permanently.
What are you DOING here ?
I work here, remember ?
That was eleven years ago.
Well, surprise, surprise, I've been on the payroll for several years now. I still have an office and secretary. No one even batted an eyelash. Do you realize what the high turnover is in a multi corporation bank in New York ?
Apparently pretty high, we just got a new CEO last week.
That's a shame.
Yeah a real shame.
Well, I'll see you at the next staff party.
Bye....
Is that it ?
Yeah, I'd say that's it.
Doesn't it bother you to see this kind of brutal death ? I mean , I can understand the old man's infatuation with the stuff, but not you.
I'm an investment banker. I see blood bathes everyday. Besides, mine is not to question why, min is but to do or die.
No one has a gun to your head.
Good morning. What do you have today ?
I have an embezzler and his accomplice.
I'll do the standard research and have them in by midnight, pending any unforseen problems.
Good. Nice to see you, Bruce. Johnny.
That's it folks for the Demon Boat Ride.... Everybody off. Watch your hands and feet.
Where's the dock ?
And now ladies and gentlemen it's time for the fabulous CROCODILE SHOW !
Great ! You couldn't be a fan of Dolphins or some other less threatening animal.
So many tubes to get in, only one is the way out.
Great.. great. Is there any kind of hint or anything ?
Pick with expediency !
You must come in first place to move on !
Jesus, my legs are asleep. I'll never be able to win this shit.
Not here...no thanks.
Not a coke or anything?
No ... thanks though... I'll take a cigarette if you have one.
Sure, reach in my shirt pocket there.
No. I haven't seen any.
A brunette? ... maybe beat up?
No...
You'll keep your eyes open for me won't you baby?
Sure.
So man, that's unheard of ... an accident like that ... who coulda foreseen that.
Unreal ... so, you're looking good. Whatcha doin' these days?
Well, not much Ed. Just doin' some stuff for this guy.
Making ends meet, huh.
Hardly.
Yeah, look at my digs ... times are tough.
Oh, things aren't so bad. Gee, I hope you're not goin' to get in any trouble.
It was just a thing. The story made you laugh.
Yeah, that's a funny story.
You feel it?
Yeah.
Sammy thinks the Caddy had stopped along the shoulder ... man up the road said he saw two cars drag racin'...then you got that blind corner.
Two men... two guns in the Caddy.
The boys found this on the floor in back of the Caddy.
Yeah, they showed me
Could be unrelated.
Could be...any of those dead kids wearin' pearl earrings?
No. Could be someone's missin' maybe.
That's what I'm thinkin'.
Nice wallets.
Handstitched Italian. Filled with phony credit cards ... off the two guys in the Caddy.
The one of 'em still alive?
Yeah... just .... Dr. Scott's got 'im. You remember Dr.Scott.
Oh yeah.
Well he said... you know in his way... you know what I mean? Besides the guy gettin' rolled up under the kids car which busted him up pretty bad, there was this little knifelike torn piece of metal, you know, off the car body, rolled out and slid up through this guy's neck and just kinda slit his aorta, you know, but they didn't find it right away, so the guy's losin' a lot of blood, you know, to the brain  all this time cause it was just like this thin little puncture wound on the surface of his neck that kinda sealed itself, he said, while inside the aorta is bleedin' pretty steady all that time. So, Dr. Scott's laughin' you know like he does 'cause he knows we want to talk to this guy. He's laughin' you know and shakin'... Son of a bitch couldn't stop laughin'... It was kinda contagious 'cause pretty soon we were all laughin'...the nurse was laughin'. You know how he is.
Find out who they are?
Nope, not yet. Their fingerprints don't match up anywhere.
Interesting.
Yeah ... and they both use the same address.
Where at?
Palmdale.
Damn, that's a long drive.
Why did you want to go to breakfast if you're not hungry?
I just wanted to come here.
To Denny's? I wasn't going to say anything, but why Denny's?
This Denny's.
Okay. Why this Denny's?
It's kind of embarrassing but,
Go ahead.
I had a dream about this place.
Oh boy.
You see what I mean...
Okay, so you had a dream about this place. Tell me.
Well ... it's the second one I've had, but they were both the same......they start out that I'm in here but it's not day or night. It's kinda half night, but it looks just like this except for the light, but I'm scared like I can't tell ya. Of all people you're standing right over there by that counter. You're in both dreams and you're scared. I get even more frightened when I see how afraid you are and then I realize what it is  there's a man...in back of this place. He's the one ... he's the one that's doing it. I can see him through the wall. I can see his face and I hope I never see that face ever outside a dream.
So, you came to see if he's out there?
To get rid of this godawful feeling.
Right then.
Yeah, sure. Look what happened to them.
No, no, no, I told you. They're fine. They're all real happy.
My next delivery is up that way, so I'll be getting down to it real soon.
You're so easy.
Gotta keep an eye on her, that's all.
Yeah, what for?
Keep her from gettin' in trouble, that's all.
What's the matter now?
Nothing... I don't like being out in the open like this.
It must be just so pathetic being you. Sure Billy, grab your dog we'll eat in the van.
To my audition.
And who are we auditioning for today?
Wally Brown.
And do we know which of the fiftyseven buildings Wally Brown is in?
No, we don't.
Well, now we've got to figure that out first don't we?
Yes, Sir.
Mr.Wallace Brown is in the Executive Building on the second floor. We want to go in and turn right at the first street. Then we want to walk three blocks down past Stage 17 to the white Executive Building. Once we're on the second floor the receptionist will take us from there. Now do we have name?
Betty Elms.
Let's see if we have a pass for Betty Elms ... and we do. Here we go. And good luck Miss. Elms.
Thank you... thank you very much.
No ..........I.
I...I mean......I...it's none of my business.
She has pretty red hair... she is very kind I think.
She sure is. She's letting me stay here while she's working on a movie that's being made in Canada, but I guess you know that. I couldn't afford a place like this in a million years. Unless of course I'm discovered and become a movie star. Of course, I'd rather be known as a great actress than a movie star, but sometimes people end up being both and that is, I guess you'd say, sort of why I came here. I'm sorry, I'm just so excited to be here..I mean I just came here from Iowa and now I'm in this dream place. You can imagine how I feel.
I think I've been hurt.
Oh...
No.
But, this could be serious.
No...I need to sleep.
If you have a concussion you shouldn't sleep.
It will be okay if I sleep. I need to lie down and sleep.
All right, but...I'm going to check on you.
What is it Rita?
I'm...I'm... oh no... I thought when I woke up... I thought sleep would do it ...
What's wrong?
I don't know who I am.
What do you mean? You're Rita.
I'm not. I don't know what my name is. I don't know who I am!!
Well... what do you think about then? I mean... well what do you think about?
What do you mean?
Well ... if you don't remember anything, I mean what goes through your mind then if you don't remember anything?
Nothing. I do remember the car crash... I told you... I remember the glass ... I think about that sometimes ... I remember walking here, sort of. Now I remember this place and you. That's about it.
How do you remember how to talk?
I don't know.
You don't remember anything else?
No There is something...something there I can't tell... I can't describe it. There are things there.... but I'm... here.
The money. You don't know where it came from?
Unh, unh.
When you think about them... the money... the key ... does it make you remember anything?
Mulholland Drive.
Mulholland Drive?
That's where I was going... Mulholland Drive.
Maybe that's where the accident was. There must be a police report. We could call.
No.... I don't...
We could call anonymously from a pay phone... just to see if there was an accident.
Okay... but just...just to see.
Just to see if there was an accident on Mulholland Drive.
Okay.
Come on... let's find you something to wear.
There's nothing?
Not that I can see.
No. Just the coffee.
We'll take our check.
Strange to be calling yourself.
Maybe it's not me.
Call the number.
It's not my voice ... but I know her.
Maybe the voice isn't Diane Selwyn. Maybe that's your roommate or if it is Diane Selwyn she can tell you who you are.
Maybe...maybe ... maybe.
What's wrong with that?
I'm not sure about this.
I know you're afraid of something. We'll be careful. Tomorrow we'll go over there and we'll find out.
"You're still here?"
"I came back. I thought that's what you wanted."
"Really?"
"My parents are right upstairs! They think you've left..."
"So... surprise"...
"I can call them... I can call my dad... "
"But you won't..."
"You're playing a dangerous game here. If you're trying to blackmail me... it's not going to work."
"You know what I want...it's not that difficult."
"Get out! Get out before I call my dad ... he trusts you ... your his best friend. This will be the end of everything... "
"What about you? What will your dad think about you?"
"Stop! Just Stop! That's what you said from the beginning. If I tell what happened... they'll arrest you and put you in jail, so get out of here before..."
"Before what?"
"Before I kill you."
"Then they'd put you in jail."
Oh, no wonder I'm starving. I'm going to fix a sandwich. You want one?
I'm all right.
You've got to eat something. You're just nervous about going over to see if you're Diane Selwyn.
Is everything all right? Is it bad for you that I'm here?
Everything is Aokay, but I've gotta get that sandwich!
I hope I'm back in a couple of hours. Don't drink all the coke.
Good luck!
When I get back I'll have the cab waiting, so be ready to go.
Okay.
Why didn't you ask him? Sol knows you!
But I don't know, Sol. I never heard of Sol. I'd just get in trouble. That's why we shouldn't go see about Diane Selwyn... it's better not to get in trouble.
You're not going to get in trouble. You're going to find out who you are. Finding out who you are gets you out of trouble.
Don't stop!
What is it? What do you see?!
Those men in front, in the car.
Do you know them?!
No... but...
Keep going. Go around to the back.
I don't think...
C'mon help me in. I'll open the front door.
No.
Rita... I know what you're doing.
What ... I..HAVE... to do.
I know what you have to do, but let me do it.
Rita... I want you to stay here and you don't have to give me that money.
But I want to.
No. We shouldn't touch that money. We don't know about that money. That might be dangerous money. You have to start all over again. You look like a brand new person and you can be a brand new person... whoever you want to be.
It sounds kind of nice ... being somebody brand new.
Hey, let's introduce the brand new you to Hollywood. We haven't seen the roof garden yet.
Yes?
Diane?
Number 17.
But it said #12.
I switched apartments with her. She's in #17. Just walk down that way. It's just to the right.
Well ... we'll leave her a note.
I'll go with you. She's still got some of my stuff.
Hi. I'm inquiring ...well, I heard a sound last night that sounded like a car crash and I want to know if there was an accident on Mulholland Drive.
Yes, there was.
Can you tell me what happened?
No. I can't.
Was anyone hurt?
May I have your name please?
Just tell me where it hurts, baby.
What?
I want to play this one close, Bob. Like it was with that girl, what's her name, with the black hair. That felt good. Whaddya think?
Betty.
Yeah ... Betty. You don't rush it. I don't rush it. We play it close, just like in the movies.
You're still here?
I came back. I thought that's what you wanted.
I can call them... I can call my dad.
But you won't.
Stop... just stop! That's what you said from the beginning. If I tell what happened... they'll arrest you and put you in jail, so get out of here before...
Before what?
Betty Elms?
Yes.
I'm Wally Brown. Your Aunt is a very dear friend of mine so it's particularly nice to meet you.
Very pleased to meet you.
Come in. I'd like you to meet everyone.
Hi.
Well. Shall we get to it? Would you like a water or a coffee before we begin?
No, no, I'm fine.
Well then, take a seat everyone. Betty why don't you join Jimmy and we'll play the scene. Is there anything you'd like to say Bob... something to Betty before they begin?
That's okay.
I'm Ruth's niece. My name's Betty. I'm sure she told you I was coming.
There was an accident. I came here.
I understand. I saw the dress. I...I'm sorry. Are you all right?
A car ... a car accident.
Are you okay?
I think so. I was just taking a shower.
Oh my god. I'm sorry. I'll let you get back to that. I'm going to get unpacked.
My name is Rita.
Hi...do you work with my Aunt?
I guess it was your grandfather, was it ... he called me to check in, said you were on your way and for you to call when you get in. Nice man... farmer I hear.
Yes, he is. He raises corn.
Damn lot of corn raised in Hollywood these days too.
Well, I ...
You don't have to tell me. It's written all over that pretty face of yours.. You came here to be an actress. I just hope you'll remember there's never been a great poem called "tits and ass."
I...
You probably don't remember her, but Louise Bonner lives right over there in number 29. When she isn't drunk she runs a damn good acting class.
Have many famous actors and actresses lived here? I was meaning to ask you that.
Honey, all the great ones came through here at one time or another.
I guess I've come to quite a place.
Sweetheart, you don't know the half of it.
No, I don't.
That's good. They're allowed, but I don't like 'em...for obvious reasons. One man used to live here that had a prize fighting kangaroo. You wouldn't believe what that kangaroo did to this courtyard ... let's see your Aunt's apartment ... it's a good one.
I can hardly wait, Coco.
It's unbelievable!
I told ya.
Wow!
Now I guess you and your Aunt have an understanding. So here's the key and you need anything, just give a holler. Everybody in this building's pretty much okay with me or they wouldn't be here. If you want, later I'll introduce you around. No hard feelings if you don't, and don't forget the rooftop garden. It's just up the stairs we passed. It's open to all the tenants. You can see the Hollywood sign from there.
Oh Coco thank you. Thank you so much.
You got it! See you later honey.
Your Aunt called me.
I was afraid of that.
She wants to know who's staying in her apartment.
It's just for a night or two, until she finds her own place. I tried to explain that to Aunt Ruth, but the connection was bad and her plane was leaving and she got it all mixed up. I kept telling her it was my friend and she kept saying she didn't know any Ritas ...
Sweetie, look at me straight.
Coco...she's very nice. We went to school together.
So I guess your Grandpa and Grandma know her.
Not really. I met her in junior college and she was from this other town.
You're really something Coco...thank you.
Don't make me out to be a sucker. Louise Bonner says there's trouble in there. You remember last night. Sometimes she's wrong, but if there is trouble  get rid of it.
Sorry to trouble you, Coco.
It's all right gorgeous. Something wrong?
No, no. I'm on my way to my audition. Before I go I wanted to ask you if you could remember the man's name ... Aunt Ruthie's friend who helped put this together. It completely went out of my mind.
His name's Wally Brown .... great guy. Been in the business since forever.
Thanks Coco. It'd be so embarrassing
Naw! He wouldn't have cared. Just give him a good performance and he'll be happy and I've got a feeling you'll do just that.
Thanks Coco. I'll let you know.
Get going. You don't want to be late.
Right. See ya.
Good luck, honey!
Yes...what is it?
I'm sorry Mr. Kesher, but there seems to be some problem concerning your credit card.
... What??
The fact is Mr. Kesher a representative of your bank called us.
How... how'd they know I was here?
I don't know. All we do is take an impression of the credit card and until you check out it just sits in our files.
So, what did they say?
Well, Sir, I'm afraid they said you're overdrawn at your bank and your line of credit has been cancelled.
Unbelievable. Look... here. I don't know what's going on. That's so much baloney. I've got enough cash for one night, okay?
That's fine, Mr. Kesher. You can pay cash when you check out. I'm sorry. it was my duty to inform you.
Fine. I'll check out in the morning.
Have a good evening, Mr. Kesher.
Howdy!
Howdy to you.
Beautiful night.
Yeah.
Sure want to thank ya for drivin' all the way up to see me from that Beverly Hills Hotel.
No problem. What's on your mind?
Well now, here's a man who wants to get right to it. Kinda anxious to get to it are ya?
Whatever.
A man's attitude ... a man's attitude goes some ways toward how a man's life will be. Is that somethin' you agree with?
Sure.
Now... did you answer cause you thought that's what I wanted to hear or did you think about what I said and answer cause you truly believe that to be right?
I agree with what you said...truly.
What did I say?
That a man's attitude determines to a large extent how his life will be.
So since you agree I guess you could be a person who does not care about the good life.
How's that?
Well, just stop for a little second and think about it. Will ya do that for me?
Okay, I'm thinking.
No. You're too busy being a smart aleck to be thinkin'. Now I want ya to think and quit bein' such a smart aleck. Can ya do that for me?
Look ... where's this going? What do you want me to do?
There's sometimes a buggy. How many drivers does a buggy have?
One.
So let's just say I'm drivin' this buggy and you fix your attitude and you can ride along with me.
Okay.
Now I know a few things. I know you have had a rough day. You're probably thinkin' I don't know the half of it, but in actual fact I know every part of it. The business of gittin' thrown off your movie, the heartache of seeing your wife with another man... losin' access to that precious film vault...
It will work out.
Good then, but, just in case, that bank's gonna stay closed a bit longer. You understand that?
I understand.
You're an understandin' fella.
So, this is the last time I see you then unless I do bad?
No, this one doesn't count. It's part of the original one. So then ... until we meet again.
Okay.
So what's the problem?
There is no problem.
So why did you idiots bring me here? ... I'm in the middle of making a picture.
We'd be happy to put her in the pile for considerations ... you'd be pleased to know there's quite a lot of interest in this role.
Interest?! There's six of the top actresses that want this thing.
You'd better fix this, Ray!!!
I'll speak to someone.
And you'd better speak to someone too ... or find yourself another client!! This smells like a setup to me! And by the way, Ray, I don't know who these guys are kidding, but every foot of film I've shot is in a vault at the lab that only I can access. No one's getting that film!!
Adam, where are you?
What's going on, Cynthia?
They've closed the set. They sent everybody home.
What did you say?
They fired everyone.
Who fired everyone?
Ray did ... and then they closed the set.... everybody's gone. You'd better get down here Adam!
No.
You've got to talk to Ray you've got to fix this.
I'm going home.
Home! Meet me at the office. We've got to do something ... you've got to do something Adam!
I'm going home Cynthia.
Adam, this isn't like you. Please come to the office. There must be something we can do.
I'm going home. I'll call you later.
Someone's shut off my money!
I know. Where are you Adam?
What do you mean "you know"?
Someone called me. When they couldn't get you they told me you were as good as broke. I didn't believe then, so I made some calls.
And?
You're broke!
But I'm not broke.
I know, but you're broke. Where are you?
Beverly Hills Hotel. I've got enough cash in my pocket for one night.
Do you know somebody called the The Cowboy?
The Cowboy??
Yeah, the Cowboy. This guy, the Cowboy, wants to see you. Jason said he thought it would be a good idea.
Oh, Jason thought it would be a good idea for me to meet the Cowboy. Should I wear my ten gallon hat and my six shooters?
Something tells me this guy is connected with what's happening, Adam, and I think you should do it and I think you should do it right away.
Cynthia...what's going on?
It's been a very strange day.
And getting stranger. Where do I meet this Cowboy? I mean do I have to ride out to the range?
Sort of, funny boy. If I tell him the meeting's on you're to go to the top of Beachwood Canyon. There's a corral up there where he'll be.
You gotta be kidding?
Will you meet with him?
Yeah, sure. It is that kind of a day. When?
I'll call him, then call you back...If you want you could stay at my place.
Cynthia... that would not be a good idea.
I'm just offering a place to stay.
I understand, Cynthia and thank you for the offer. I'll find a place. Now go ahead and give the Cowboy a yodel and get back to me.
Okay, but you don't know what you're missing.
Git along little dowgie and call me back.
It means she's screwed up.
Fucked up. That's what they said I was.
Cool.
Can you say anything but "cool"?
Of course I can. I can say all sorts of things...
One of these cities, is the place you seek. The Teller of Truths will take you there. But the City of Lies, is dark and bleak. And death is certain if you enter, beware.
I am The Liar. Where should I take you?
I am the Truth Teller. Where should I take you?
So start at the beginning...
Give her a chance, will you?
I am giving her a chance. Why don't you get off my back?
We're glad you people could make it, and we're anxious to have you try out our new product. We think it's going to be a big seller. But you're the people that make it happen. You're the market share everyone's tearing each other apart to get at. It's your opinion that's going to make or break us.
So what's so different about Arcade? You guys've been talking about it for months.
A man after my own heart. Straight to the point. What's different about ARCADE is the way it reacts. It responds like a human does. It learns. It adapts. Each time you play, it changes its strategy.
That's impossible.
Is it? Why don't you see for your self?
"Escape"?
In case things get too intense. It automatically freezes the game, gives you a breather. Things can get pretty wild...
So what's the scenario? Am I saving a princess? Fighting Zombies?
It changes. There are eleven levels. Each one is a different layer of the ARCADE universe. The concept is, you're entering the video game itself, making your way across the circuit board to the logic core ... ARCADE's brain.
So how do I start?
The game will guide you.
So what do you think?
Sign me up.
This is one of our newest projects. We're trying to get rid of joysticks altogether ...
The AirForce is working on the same thing.
Mom? You're alive...
Of course I am.
But I don't understand...
I miss you so much, Alex. I want so much to be with you...
I love you, Alex. I never wanted to leave. You know that, don't you?
Yes...but...how did you...
Is...is that where we are? Did I die?
Not yet, honey...
What did he do to you?
Is that your question?
Wait! No! That's not it!
Think! I want to go to the City of Truth, and the Truth Teller is from there...but which one is which? The liar...think!
You have no time. What is your question?
I'm thinking!
You have no time.
How did you get here? Did you play the game?!
Yes...
Thought so.
Then we'll go home?
Then we'll go home.
Which way?
That way.
It's the wrong way!
In this world, wrong is right!
It's here!!!
Oh God...oh god...
Listen to me, Alex. These counselor's don't know anything. They're full of shit. If you don't fit the pattern of the perfect kid, they freak.
I know.
So tell me you're okay, then.
I'm okay.
Good. Cause I'd freak if you weren't.
Come on. We'll hit Dante's after school, try the game out, maybe get some dinner.
And then keep on driving?
Sure. Never come back. Disappear forever.
Go for it.
Hold my keys, then.
So how did you do it, Alex?
Well, it's a long story...
So where is he?
Guess he took off... You have his keys, right?
Hmmm. He said you were going to have dinner?
Yeah...
So take his car home. Wait. I'm sure he's up to something...
But he was playing the game. I mean, you saw him...
Hello?
Hey, kid.
Nick...
Have you played the game yet? It's incredible! I was just...
Listen to me! Greg never came home. I think the game has something to do with it.
What the hell are you talking about?
I have to talk to you.
We are talking...
No, in person. Now.
It's twelvethirty!
I'm coming over.
Alex, you don't know how long I've waited for this.
Funny.
What do you mean by "weird"?
Greg never came home. A few hours is one thing, Nick, but this is different. Something's happened to him.
Can you turn off the game?
I'm in the middle of it...
Turn if off!
Happy?
No. Look, I know you're not going to believe me, but listen anyway... I think the game's alive somehow.
No, wait. Just listen. I hooked it up earlier tonight, and it said my name. As soon as I turned it on, Nick. It said my name. How could it know? And then, I asked it where Greg was, and it said, "In here".
Alex, I think you're freaking out. Greg's gone, I'll give you that. And maybe he's in trouble. But it's not ARCADE that's doing it...
It is.
How?! It's a machine, Alex. Machine's don't think. They're not alive. It's a good program, a brilliant program, it was designed so it would act as if it were alive, but it's not alive.
So how did it know my name, then?
You imagined it.
See, men always do this. "Quiet down, honey. Chill out. Take a Valium". I'm not a fucking idiot, Nick! I DID NOT IMAGINE IT!!!
Quiet. I do have parents, you know.
It turned itself back on, Nick.
No it didn't. It's just a faulty relay or something. It happens.
Sorry. Maybe I need the Valium.
Call the others. Laurie, Benz...
Something's happened to them.
It's the middle of the night. They're asleep. Phone didn't wake them.
All of them?
Because I didn't know where else to go.
It's two o'clock in the morning. Go home. Go to sleep. We'll figure something out in the morning.
It's not this weird. It'll make sense. Everything gets weird this late anyway, right?
Sure.
We have to find out what's happened to them. I think they're gone...
No way.
If they're sick, great. But let's make sure. Come on, Nick.
Okay. We'll see what's up. But if things are cool, I don't want to hear anything more about this. Life's too short, know what I mean?
Well?
She thought Benz was at school.
Where to now?
Laurie's.
This is like a movie or something. I mean, am I paranoid or what?
It doesn't necessarily mean she's...
Let's go around back.
Change the channel!
What?!
Then leave her.
We can't...
We'll call 911. Look around Alex. We broke in, smashed the t.v., no one's going to believe what happened here!
Where do we go?
My house. I want to try something.
That's what I thought.
What?
It's not just the cable system. It's in the phone system as well, the electronic net. It's everywhere.
Nick, what is it.
Maybe it is alive in a way...some sort of electronic intelligence. It's like a computer virus that developed a personality or something. It's selfreplicating...it mimics life.
Like the fractals?
It's growing. Getting stronger. Maybe it's only localized now...
...but then it hits the relay stations...
Right. And then communication satellites, and then anywhere.
Anywhere. We have to stop it from getting out.
It's already out.
The Police, then...
Give me a break, Alex. What are we going to tell them? Excuse me, officer, but there's some sort of electronic monster loose in the phone lines. I'd think twice about calling any of those 976 numbers...
Then where do we go?!
I don't know.
SLIPSTREAM.
What?
They made ARCADE. It's still a game, right? It thinks like a game. Maybe it still has to play by the rules. Someone had to program it in the first place, didn't they?.
You mean we learn the rules...
And beat it at it's own game.
You realize that in order to do that, we'd actually have to play the game.
I was afraid you'd say that.
Virgin sacrifices?
Drives 'em crazy every time.
What Alex is trying to say is that it "seems" like it's alive.
No I'm not...
We're not getting very far into the levels and we kind of thought maybe we could talk to a programmer, learn some tricks and stuff... I mean, you don't want us kids running around school saying your game's too hard, right?
Go outside, get your car, and meet me out front with the engine running. And make it quick, okay?
What are you going to do?
Get that helmet. If we're going to play ARCADE, I want every advantage possible.
Jesus Christ!
I can't believe you made it!
You got the schematics?
Everything.
I've been thinking about that. ARCADE's like a virus, so it seems like the place to hit him would be where the virus started. You know, like his point of origin?
Dante's Inferno.
Yeah. The Inferno.
Alex...
You didn't hear me?
What are you looking for?
A way to hook this helmet into the game. I'm sure there are interfaces...
I don't understand. It wants us to play the game. It's been taunting us ...
Put in a quarter.
It can turn itself on, Alex! It doesn't need a quarter.
Yes it does. Don't you see? We have to play by the rules. That's what it wants.
You're not coming, Alex.
Yes I am...
I know how to do this! I'm good at these games. You never play, you'd be nailed in an instant.
And what if something happens to you? Am I suppose to go in after you alone?!
No. If you're smart, you run like hell.
You don't get it, do you?
What?
I don't want anything to happen to you. I care about you.
I already have a boyfriend, Nick.
I know. It sucks.
You feel it? It's different this time.
We're actually inside, aren't we?
Okay. Give us a kiss?
One. In case...
Don't even say it.
Thanks. Always wanted to do that.
Yeah, well I figure these are unusual circumstances.
That's what I was hoping you'd say.
I'll take the lead and handle the physical threats. You watch the elapsed time and look for exits.
Got it.
Which way do you think Level Two is?
You've got the schematics, check.
Okay. It's West.
The keys are supposed to be at the end of each level. Once we get all the keys, we can unlock ARCADE's heart. And then...
The clock's already ticking.
Right, then...
And we've still got time left. This was a piece of cake.
Yeah, that's what worries me.
Hey, my strength's low. Look out for Fireflies.
There...
Shit...
Check your readout.
Our time's up.
What?! There's nothing here!
Look around...
What the fuck is that?!
Screamer.
We can't reach that!
We don't have a choice!
So that's what we almost died for?
One of them, anyway... Did you see it? The Screamer?
I don't want to talk about it.
Christ...no time...
There never is.
We can take the dunes down like a ski slope. Pretend you're on a snowboard.
Never been on a snowboard.
What is it?
I just thought of something. If we came back from the game... ...what if ARCADE did too?
He thinks I'm "sublimating".
What the hell does that mean?
Has anyone seen Greg?
He's probably outside. You know how he is. Gets bored...
Sick?
Everybody's sick, huh? It's fifteen after. We always meet here, you know that.
What's her problem?
Did you play ARCADE last night?
Actually, no. I was just telling Nick, here, that my t.v.'s busted...
Liar. Did you come from the city on the left, or the city on the right?
I came from the city on the left.
But you always lie, so you didn't come from there. That means the city on the left must be the City of Truth.
Nick, Alex, how are we today?
How'd you know it was us?
Security camera. Pulled your files before I came down. Be careful what you say, kids ... I know where you live.
Now what seems to be the problem?
It's the game, ARCADE.
You don't like it?
If this is a joke, I'm not laughing.
Neither are we. Something's wrong with the game, Mr. Difford.
Why don't we take this into my office.
Talk to me.
There's something wrong with ARCADE. The game's alive somehow...
We're having some problems with ARCADE...
Yeah, who isn't.
We vere thinking there might be tricks. You know, surprises that you'd worked into the game...
Sure. Every game's got 'em. I'll start with the schematics. I can print these up if you want.
The next half of the game takes place in ARCADE's brain, The City of Truth. It's urban scenarios, lots of metal and concrete. Screamer comes faster here. On Level Four you can get a free life if you wait until the last possible second before exiting that world. Gotta time it right though.
What's the question mark?
Level Ten. That's where you've got to unlock ARCADE's heart using the keys you've found.
How do you do that?
Good question. See, that's where the fun comes in. ARCADE changes it every time. He's a machine without a soul. Once you give him a soul, he stops being a threat.
But how can it change every time?
It's the game's logic core. We actually patterned it after human brainwaves. I mean, there's a personality in there. That's what makes it so incredible.
Dead?
Well, braindead anyway. Coma patient. It's really not all that important.
Maybe he's not dead.
He?
The donor. Maybe he's alive inside the game.
And maybe you've been taking too many drugs.
Does that thing work?
Getting there. It's more sensitive than a joystick. Your videocharacter can respond as fast as you can. But what can I do for you?
What do you mean?
It's a tough game. Hard to pin that bastard down. Keeps on changing the rules.
You've got your ten levels, right? Here they are... Each level has an exit, only remember, the exits aren't always what they seem. First one's The Blood Red Sky, then you've got The Blue Desert, Tower of Ghosts, Kingdom of the Blind... On each world you have to find a golden key and you've only got so much time to do it in. If you're too late, The Screamer comes.
How do you stop The Screamer?
You can't. He gets you and you're dead. It's like time catching up with you, you know? Like Fate. Each level you get progressively less time to complete. First half of the game takes place in the Wild Lands. Then you reach Level 6, and that's the Sea of Darkness. There's a twoheaded Boatman that'll take you across if you answer his riddle right. If you don't...
What's the riddle?
If I tell you, then it's no fun.
Just tell me the fucking riddle.
Well...it involves a paradox. You have to trick The Boatman. Now all the while, you also have to watch your strength. You can build that back up by catching FIREFLIES...the little glowing guys...
How the hell did you do that?
Well, we're veering into classified info here, but I'll tell you that it involved a donor. He was dead of course, so it's not like anything unethical was happening.
Could you play ARCADE with that?
Well, technically "yes", but this is only the prototype.
Thanks, Albert. Think you could print up those schematics?
Sure.
That's a very pretty shawl you are wearing, Alex. Silk suits you well. But you are not eating enough. One must not let vanity overrule one's appetite.
Yes, ma'am.
Where is my son?
Prince Albert is at Windsor, ma'am.
Why is he not here?
He is sick, ma'am.
Then why are you not with him?
You ordered all members of the Royal Family to attend you at Balmoral.
What is the matter with him?
He has typhoid fever, ma'am.
Sir Henry, Mr Brown is standing in the courtyard. I have no wish to go riding.
I'm very sorry, ma'am. I can't imagine  he was certainly given no instructions.
Please make sure it does not happen again.
Of course, at once.
Lord Clarendon arrives, by invitation, at eleven o'clock, followed at twelve by a picnic in the grounds to celebrate Princess Alice's birthday. Dispatches, as usual, at two. The Chancellor writes to say that, by happy coincidence, he will be in Cowes for the weekend. He asks if Your Majesty might grant him an audience.
Why?
He thought, perhaps, Your Majesty might wish to be informed of the latest developments in government.
No. I shall be out walking.
We stayed a little longer than expected with Mr and Mrs Grant. It was most agreeable.
We were expecting you to return by six.
And now I am back.
Read it.
Again?
Read it!
Who told them that?
I have no idea.
Why not?
I  forgive me, ma'am, I am no wiser than yourself.
Noone should think themselves wiser than me! It is not for any of the Queen's subjects to presume to tell Her Majesty when and where She should come out of mourning. It is the Queen's sorrow that keeps her secluded! It is Her overwhelming amount of work and responsibility, work which She feels will soon wear her out entirely!
Your Majesty 
Is it not enough that She is uncheered and unguided that she should also have to suffer these malicious rumors?! I am not a fool. I know there are those in the establishment too afraid to attack me and so they attack my dearest friends. Sometimes  I feel that Brown is all I have left of Albert. And now they attack Brown too.
There is one other matter.
What is it?
I have a letter, ma'am.
From whom?
From Princess Helena and other members of your family.
My family is quite capable of communicating with the Queen in person.
What do they want?
They are demanding the dismissal of John Brown on grounds of drunkeness.
Ma'am?
Please tell the Princess, and other signatories to this letter, that the Queen will not be dictated to, or made to alter, in any way, what she has found to answer for her comfort. Do I make myself clear?
Ma'am.
The Royal Family and senior members of the household, ma'am.
Just them?
Yes, ma'am.
It's Mr Brown, ma'am.
What is he doing there?
He appears to be ... standing by his horse.
I made no request to go out riding today. How long has he been there?
I don't know, ma'am. He was observed earlier, I believe.
Well?
Mr Brown is unable to attend today.
Why?
I believe he is unwell, ma'am.
Unwell?
I understand he was in a fight.
Has he been hurt?
I believe not, ma'am. I understand  he'd had rather too much to drink.
How long has he been this sick?
A few days, ma'am.
Why was I not told earlier?
We're expecting Brown this afternoon, ma'am.
Whom?
I'm sorry, ma'am?
Cold is good!
Excellent, ma'am, excellent. But perhaps if her Majesty were to consider accompanying her newfound physical vigor with the benefits of mental activity...
Why am I being lectured in this way?!
Forgive me, Your Majesty. In no way did I wish to suggest
I will not tolerate anybody lecturing me about the responsibility of the monarchy....
No. You are mistaken. Prince Albert, my husband, had typhoid fever. I asked what was wrong with my son.
The same, your Majesty.
Why was I not informed?
I did not consider it wise, in the circumstances, to tax your nerves.
How ill is he?
A fine choice, sir.
Excellent!
A distinct flushing around the cheeks. She was drunk, I tell you.
No, she wasn't.
Erysipelas.
Not too protracted, I hope.
A few days... When he heard, the Prince of Wales threw the bust from the window of the Royal Gallery. It took four hours to gather the fragments.
The Queen wishes to publish an account of him.
Dear oh dear.
We think she can be dissuaded. Have you had a glance at the diary?
Yes.
Quite. I think I'd best take it back.
Of course.
Where did you find it by the way?
Some young page was boasting about having seen it. Lucky.
Well, no rest for the wicked, Henry.
No, indeed.
Should we take it seriously?
The cartoon or Her Majesty's absenteeism?
Well, both.
The question is, do we need her?
Surely, you're not suggesting we dispense
My dear Stanley, a Prime Minister with only a handful of friends must respect public opinion.
Gossip counts. Lord Aberdeen was right. This country is not governed by wisdom but by talk. Granted, it wouldn't take much to winkle the old girl out of mourning, but if public opinion is against her, then it doesn't do to appear too close.
So?
We'll see which way the wind blows.
I see the Prince of Wales is here.
I hope he got his mother's permission.
What did he want?
To know when he'll be king.
We're going to lose.
You can't know that for sure.
Gladstone's got his party facing the same way for the first time in years. We need help. Where is the old girl?
Who?
Mrs Brown.
It's questionable whether there's any advantage to be had from that direction. She's never been less popular.
In the press, perhaps. But she's sold more copies of her Highland Journal in three months than Punch will ever sell in a year. Time to wheel her out.
She's refusing to leave Balmoral.
What's her excuse this time?
The Princess Louisa is too ill to move. Frankly, the Queen's rather upset at the recent spate of bad publicity. You're smiling.
I was trying to imagine "rather upset."
Your Majesty remains at the very epicenter of governance. As for your people, look no further than the sales of your Highland Journals to see in what affection the nation holds their Queen. You sell even more copies than Mr Dickens.
But I lack your prose, Mr Disraeli.
Then they may read about me.
Indeed, and for that they are eternally grateful.
Is that not enough?
In so many ways ... and yet it is your presence they crave. A figurehead.
I never thought to be bullied by you, Mr Disraeli. You, I thought, understood a widow's grief.
Forgive me, ma'am, I cannot speak for the nation, only for myself. As Prime Minister I confess I miss your presence, but that is only an expression of my own selfish desires and I should not burden you with it.
I stay here because I am happy. Is that such a terrible crime?
No, ma'am.
This is my good John Brown.
Yes.
I have asked him to show you a little of Highland life while you are with us at Balmoral.
Forgive me, gentlemen. I'm late.
Not at all, Dean. Good of you to spare the time.
I came as quickly as I could.
You've seen the latest cartoon in Punch, I take it?
I beg your pardon?
What can we do?
Oh, several things.
Mr Brown.
Ma'am.
You are here safely.
Aye, ma'am.
You are well?
I am.
And the pony?
She's well, too.
Your family sent cards. It was much appreciated.
I'm glad of it.
My husband was always very complimentary in speaking of you. He would have approved, I am sure, of my calling on you in this way. I trust it does not inconvenience you too much.
I've no family, ma'am, apart from my brothers and sisters.
Yes. You have a brother in service here, do you not? I forget his name.
Archie.
Yes. That will be company for you.
Yes, ma'am.
Mr Brown.
Yes, ma'am.
You have been told repeatedly not to stand in the courtyard unless requested to do so.
Yes, ma'am.
Then why do you persist in doing it?
Because I think Her Majesty is wrong. If ever there was a poor soul who needed fresh air, it is her.
The Queen will ride out if and when she chooses.
And I intend to be there when she's ready.
Prince Albert was going to build a bench here. He thought it one of the best views in Osborne.
It's a fine spot, ma'am.
He thought so, yes.
If Prince Albert were here today, he'd tell him a thing or two.
Sir Henry is not alone. They all wish it. The same people who refused to grant my husband the title of King because he was deemed of insufficient rank
It is a fine spot for a bench, is it not?
Aye, ma'am.
Yes.
What are those?
What?
Those, over there, there.
Craobhangeanmchnofhiadhaich.
Craobhangeanmchno... How can I possibly say that with a straight face?!
I am thinking of publishing my "Highland Journals."
Are they worth reading?
I am told so.
Who by?
Sir Henry Ponsonby tells me they are charming.
What does he know about the Highlands?
He has been attending at Balmoral for many years.
That doesn't make him an expert.
His remarks were directed at the quality of the writing, not its subject.
I don't groom a horse to have it admired by others, I groom it because it needs grooming.
I do not do it for others. But Ponsonby thinks they are good.
Just say what you have to say, woman. What other people think shouldn't matter to you.
Of course I shall say what I have to say. I always do.
Aye, well, if all you want is a good opinion then he'd be sure to oblige you.
What Mr Ponsonby was appreciating was their literary merit, a skill not intimately associated with the knowledge of grooming. Literary appreciation does not begin and end with Tennyson.
They're ready now.
I hope they didn't go to any trouble, John.
Ah, well...
We took a nip of whiskey.
To keep out the cold.
Aye.
What is it, John? John?
I heard something.
Must they always follow us?
I ordered it. It's for your own safety.
Dear me, you'll be telling me to watch what I eat next.
Am I not safe enough with you, John?
Aye. But there are Fenians reported on the mainland.
The threat from the Irish is greatly exaggerated, I'm sure.
I'll decide when it's exaggerated.
John?
Yes, ma'am?
I was told you were in a fight.
Yes, ma'am.
Has someone seen to those bruises?
Yes, ma'am.
Ma'am?
Yes?
Having considered my position here at court, I have come to the conclusion that it is in the best interest of Your Majesty that I should resign.
I do not accept.
I had foreseen that you would not. But Your Majesty should understand  that my mind will not be changed in this. I leave for Deeside 
The Queen forbids it. I cannot allow it because I cannot live without you. Without you, I cannot find the strength to be who I must be. Please.
Duty?! You talk about duty?!
If duty and safety are served by the same end then, aye, I do.
I cannot believe you are saying this? You, who I have relied on all this time 
Have I ever let you down before?
 You stand there and tell me it is my duty ... after all you promised me!
I'm breaking no promises!
You are forcing me to do the very thing you know I fear most!
For god's sake, woman, I'm just trying to keep you safe!
I will not hear any more about my safety!! You made me a promise and now you have broken it!
 When I took you out riding, come rain or shine, because I knew it was right for you, when I kept the bairns off your back so you could have a bit of peace, when I saw you safe from home to home and you didn't even know I was there...! All I've ever thought about is you!
Then why send me back to them?!
Because I have to!
You should never have gone out in such foul weather.
Someone has to look after you. It could've been someone. It was before.
Yes. Yes it was.
What brings you here?
A man can refuse only so many invitations from his Queen. It was remiss of me not to come earlier.
What do you know about the Highlands?
I am a blank sheet.
Do you hunt?
Occasionally.
Dare say you can be taught.
To shoot perhaps, but not to kill.
If you hunt, you kill.
Always remember, you keep it tight to your shoulder, you absorb the kick. Aim for the head. Then imagine it's Gladstone.
Quite.
You sent for me.
I've been called back to London. My last day. I thought I might take a walk on Lochnagar.
Princes and Lords are but the breath of kings, An honest man's the noblest work of God. You must miss such magnificent views.
I don't think about it.
Forgive me, I've called you out and you should have been resting.
I'm fine.
You're injured.
It's nothing.
Still, someone must attend you. Your wife should not have let you out.
I'm not married.
Oh.
This is the top.
The look on their faces when one walks into the room. Still gives one a ridiculous thrill.
I wouldn't know.
Surely 
What I do, I do for my Queen.
Was there never ambition?
Maybe, once.
Then I envy yo.
Why?
To have achieved one's ambition, or to have reconciled oneself to its limits, is a lifetime's work.
I do what I do.
For Her Majesty.
Aye.
But yourself? What about John Brown?
I said. I serve the Queen.
No other aspiration?
You will not be unaware of the threat now posed by Republicanism.
Why do you think I keep her here?
Ah, but therein lies the paradox. It is her very isolation that encourages the malcontents. The longer she is away, the stronger they become; and who, honestly, can promise security against that? However many doors you lock, someone will always get in. Even here.
So...?
The truth is, the Queen would be safer doing her duty and returning south to her public. John Bull loves her and John Bull is her best defense.
Her mind is set. She won't change now.
She trusts you, John.
They don't see it.
See what?
The threat. I tell them, but they don't see it.
They aren't as watchful as you.
Too busy looking after themselves.
The greasy pole.
No loyalty.
No love.
I promised to protect her from people like you.
For once in my life, I am not the issue.
She'll never understand it.
In time, she will.
She'll think I betrayed her.
But others will know that you acted for the greater good.
Her Majesty's routine at Osborne House is not as you will remember it. The Household remains in full mourning and noone is permitted to raise their voice under any circumstances whatsoever. As for the Queen's routine, she breakfasts at nine thirty, lunches at two,takes tea at five thirty and dinner at eight forty five. No one is allowed to leave the building while the Queen is at home. On the rare occasions when she is out, you may ask permission to leave, but only with my consent. You're to be ready to walk the pony at any time after ten o'clock. You'll clean her outdoor things and do any odd jobs as and when she requires.
How will I know?
I'm sorry?
How will I know what she requires?
You'll be sent a message.
Who'll bring it to me?
Her Highness' Equerry.
I need a man who knows where I am.
I'm sure it won't be difficult to find you.
That's not good enough.
Then we'll have to see what can be arranged.
Aye, do.
There is to be no communication with other members of the household on matters concerning the court except through myself or one of the Equerries. No plans must be altered unless you are given prior authority by myself or a senior member of the household.
I came down at the Queen's request. I'll take my orders from her.
In matters concerning the Household, I act on her behalf.
Do you?
Yes. I do.
Awaiting my orders.
You do not report for duty unless the Queen requests it. You know that very well.
I didn't come all this way to sit on my arse.
You will await your orders like everyone else. Unless you prefer a repeat of yesterday's little excitement.
No.
I beg your pardon?
I thought I made myself perfectly clear. You do not leave your room until Her Majesty requests it.
Well, you tell Her Majesty from me, if her husband was here now, he'd have had her out of that house and getting some air in her. What the hell's the point in me being here otherwise?!
Go inside at once.
Is that the Queen's request?
Yes, it most certainly is!
She'll be away on Friday between eight o'clock and six in the evening to visit the Grants in Glasalt. If she's to make the journey there and back in the day she's to have no distractions the night before. She'll take a light supper alone in her private drawing room and retire early.
She'll need to sign dispatches before she retires.
That can wait till the weekend.
There are important papers from 
It can wait. Anything else?
If I find out that you had anything to do with this, I will have you sacked.
I believe that decision rests with Her Majesty.
Don't think I can't persuade her.
I don't doubt that the Queen was highly amused. She has always had a very healthy sense of humor.
This is a slur on her good name.
In as much as the article is about yourself, I think you must now accept that the public has a right to its interest in you.
Nobody has any rights over me.
We are all of us subject to forces beyond our control, Mr Brown, even you.
The Queen will be riding to St. George's on the fifth.
I recommend Her Majesty uses the covered carriage with a full Horse Guard. In the event of any disturbance I will ensure 
Mr. Carter, the Head Butler, sits there.
Not now he doesn't. This is my place.
By whose authority?
My own.
The order of seating at the Upper Servant's table is arranged personally by the Queen herself.
That's a tautology lad. If you say the Queen arranges something, you've no need to say she's done it personally. That's understood.
What happens to John Brown is his business, but the Queen's security will never be compromised!
We 
You'll talk when I'm finished!
Checked and locked, sir.
Back and upper corridors.
Gesture?
I thought, a dinner for our ambassadors perhaps?
No dinners, Bertie. Why are you dressed for outdoors?
It's so infernally cold in here.
Cold is good Is that not so, Dr. Jenner?!
Mother....
... Least of all my son. It was his irresponsibility that drove my husband to his grave.
If it is inconvenient to Her Majesty, then perhaps she might consider allowing the Prince of Wales to host
I do believe they send so many boxes to taunt me. Doctor Jenner writes to them to say that my nerves are in an extremely fragile state and yet they continue to hound me with box after box after box after box after box!
Surely it is for the gentlemen to decide when to stop...
It is a disgusting habit, Bertie. It should be discouraged.
Yes, but isn't midnight a little excessive?
It is quite late enough.
But mama, the room was built expressly for that purpose. It has been a smokingroom by tradition ever since father 
Brown's responsibilities are onerous enough already. He has far too much to do without having to stay up all night waiting for you to go to bed. The smokingroom will be closed and the lights put out at twelve o'clock.
Mama...
And that is my last word on the matter.
Well, I'm sorry, but I really do think it's too much that the gentlemen of the house should be dictated to by a servant.
It's the Queen's decision.
I beg your pardon? Mama...?
I wish to see my mother.
She's busy.
Convey her a message.
She's away to Windsor tomorrow. Talk to her there.
Tell her the Prince of Wales wishes to speak with her urgently about matters concerning the press.
Are you deaf as well as stupid?
What did you say?
I said, are you deaf as well as stupid?
Do you know who you address, sir?
Whom you address.
The future King!
Well, everyone's entitled to their opinion.
Out of my way!
Mr Disraeli. Ma'am.
Your Royal Highness. What a pleasure to see you here.
Have you met Mr Lyle? He's in sugar...?
I don't think I've had that pleasure.
No doubt you've heard the rumors.
I take no account of gossip, Your Highness.
My concern is for the reputation of the Monarchy.
Of course.
I fear the influence he has on her. The man's word is not to be credited. He is an arriviste of the very lowest water. She's having a bust cast of him. In Nero Marquino marble.
I see.
I would talk to her myself, but she won't listen to me. She must be persuaded, by someone she respects, to abandon this ridiculous favoritism before a situation develops.
A situation?
I don't imagine you frequent the Republican Clubs. But the fact that neither you nor I are members should not blind us to the significance of their existence. The Tory Party has always been our party.
I'm flattered you think so.
I tell you, if we don't stick together on this, you could find yourself First President's Opposition. Du Royaum Uni.
Quite.
Hey, Barney.
Mr Brown, sir 
It's cold out there tonight, Barney.
Yeah, there's a good girl. Have you had a look at this hoof? She was limping badly. I think there might be a stone in it.
Yeah, yeah, I did.
Good man. And is she all right?
Yeah.
Good. She's a good girl. Aren't you? Yeah, she's a lovely girl. And you know the Queen's riding tomorrow?
Yeah.
Are you all right, Barney?
What's your name?
Mary Taylor, sir.
Have I seen you up in Balmoral, Mary?
I hope to go up next year.
You wouldn't happen to know what the Queen's reading for recreation, would you, Mary?
Checked and locked, sir.
Louder, girl!
Checked and locked, sir.
Kitchen and lower house.
So?
So, there are rules. Things you do and things you don't do.
I was just telling the woman how I feel, for God's sake.
You don't tell Her Majesty how you feel.
I speak as I find, Archie.
Not down south you don't.
So what did Ponsonby do when she started shouting?
I think he nearly ruptured his truss.
How much?
Seventy a year.
Not bad, not bad.
How about yourself?
Sixty.
That's pretty good for a ghillie.
Prince Leopold? Is he the one who bleeds all day? So what does his valet do? Wash his poultices for him?
It's better than shovelling horse shit.
If you were looking for promotion, you should have picked one of the healthier ones.
She's hardly a full hamper herself.
It's only grief makes her like she is.
Three years, John. Is that not a bit long to be grieving?
She loved him.
Come on, man. There's love and there's ...
What?
You know what I mean.
I'm not sure I do, Archie.
There's love and there's behaving like you do because there's nobody to tell you not to.
Which one of us is she flirting with?
The goodlooking one.
Aye? Then she's obviously not got enough to do.
You work the system right, you could ask her yourself. Just be thankful you're not working for Household. The Queen never lets them out of her sight. But wee spats like us can slip through the net, easy.
One box of biscuits, one box of drop tablets, one box of pralines, sixteen chocolate sponges. It's the same order every week, but does anybody bother to check it? Now she has to travel all the way to Balmoral without the few luxuries she actually enjoys.
So? Someone'll send it on ahead.
Aye, but will they?
John, it's not your problem what she eats.
The woman's surrounded by fools! She has to be packed and ready to leave by seven thirty tomorrow morning. Knowing that lot, they'll still be dressing her at eight.
She's got an army of people to get her up and out.
But I'm the only one she trusts.
She'll blow hot and cold on you, John, she always does. You want to be careful.
I'm on ninety pounds a year plus seventy pounds for a pile of tartan I'd be wearing anyway. That's as much as a Page of the Back Stairs gets and that job's only for toffs. I'm Her Majesty's Highland Servant! Indoors and Out. There's no stopping me now.
And she sent no word down?
They said you were drunk. Why don't you tell her the truth?
She'll think it's her fault for keeping me.
What are you doing?!
I'm getting dressed.
You've got three broken ribs, man!
I've got my duties to attend to.
Don't be an idiot! You're in no fit state to go anywhere.
She'll be worried about me.
She'll get over it.
I can't let her down now, Archie.
And when was the last time she put herself out for you? Look, John, whatever she says to you now, in the end you're still a servant.
Oh, I'm much more than that.
Aye, she may say that to you, but the woman can say what she wants.
You watch your tongue.
Come on, man, I'm telling you what you already know.
You know nothing about her!
When are you gonna see it, John? She doesn't give a damn about you.
My lips may give a message better of Christmas love than e'en this letter. To my best friend, J.B. from his best friend, V.R. Best friend!
Aye.
She means it.
She'll drop you. When she's done with you, she'll drop you.
Get out. Out!
What's this?
It's a diary.
Be careful who sees it.
What do you take me for?
You should have someone look after you.
I'm all right. I just need to rest up a wee bit. The room ... You don't have to stay.
The place is a mess.
I can't move to tidy.
It's what the maids are for.
I'm not having some prattler going through my things.
Won't you give yourself a rest, John? She's other people to look out for her.
She needs me, Archie. She canna do without me, she said it to my face. How can I stop now?
Er, That's ... That's enough music for a while, lads. It Looks as though like there's dirty work afoot.
Brave, Sir Rob ...
Shut up.
He is brave Sir Robin, brave Sir Robin, who ...
Shut up. Oh, nobody really. just passing through.
Brave Sir Robin ran away.
I didn't.
Bravely ran away, away.
No, no, no.
When danger reared its ugly head, He bravely turned his tail and fled Yes, Brave Sir Robin turned about And gallantly he chickened out Bravely taking to his feet He beat a very brave retreat Bravest of the brave Sir Robin Petrified of being dead Soiled his pants then brave Sir Robin Turned away and fled.
You tit. I soiled my armour I was so scared!
That rabbit's got a vicious streak. It's a killer!
| You turd! + Mangy scots git!
Look. I'm warning you.
What's he do? Nibble your bum?
Well, It's got huge ... very sharp ... it can jump a... look at the bones.
I done it again.
Did I tell you? Did you listen to me? Oh no, no, you knew better didn't you? No, it's just an ordinary rabbit isn't it. The names you called me. Well, don't say I didn't tell you.
When you have found the shrubbery, place the shrubbery here, beside this shrubbery ... only slightly higher, so you get a twolevel effect with a path through the middle.
A path! A little path for the late Knights of Ni!
When you have found the shrubbery, then you must cut down the mightiest tree in the forest ... with a herring.
Yes! With a herring! With a herring! Cut down with a herring!
Oh!
Don't say that word.
Stop saying the word!
Stop saying the word! The word we cannot hear! The word ...
They're all saying the word ...
Stop saying it. AAAArghh! ... I've said it ...
You've said it! Aaaaarghhh! ... We've said it ... Wwe're all saying it.
Oh, fair one, behold your humble servant, Sir Launcelot, from the Court of Camelot. I have come to take you ... away ... I'm terribly sorry ...
You got my note!
Well ... yes ...
You've come to rescue me?
Well ... yes ... but I hadn't realised ...
I knew that someone would come. I knew ... somewhere out there ... there must be ...
I'm ... er ... Sir Launcelot, sir.
He's come to rescue me, father.
Well, let's not jump to conclusions ...
Hurry!
I am, sir. I am a Knight of King Arthur.
Well, what seems to be the trouble?
They're doctors?
No look, really, this isn't nescess ...
We must examine you.
There's nothing wrong with ... that.
Please ... we are doctors.
No, no, this cannot be. I am sworn to chastity!
Back to your bed! At once!
I'm sorry, I must go.
Camelot ...
Camelot ...
Sir Galahad!
Oh ... hello ...
Quick!
Why?
You are in great peril.
Well, she's got a point.
We'll cover your escape!
Look  I'm fine!
Come Sir Galahad, quickly!
No, really, I can cope. I can handle this lot easily!
We were in the nick of time. You were in great peril.
I don't think I was.
You were, Sir Galahad, You were in terrible peril.
Look, let me go back in there and face the peril?
It's too perilous.
Look, it's my duty as a knight to try and sample as much peril as I can.
No, no, we must find the Grail.
Oh, let me go and have a bit of peril?
No. It's unhealthy.
... I Bet you're gay.
No, I'm not.
Sir Gawain.
Ector.
The Castle Anthrax?
Yes. It's not a very good name, is it? But we are nice and we shall attend to your every ... every need!
Er ... + You are the keepers of the Holy Grail?
The what? But you are tired and you must rest awhile. Midget! Crapper!
Well, look er, I ...
What is your name, handsome knight?
Er ... Sir Galahad... the Chaste.
Mine is Zoot. Just Zoot But come.
Well Look, I'm afraid I really ought to be ...
Sir Galahad!!
Well ...
I'm afraid our life must seem very dull and quiet compared to yours. We are but eightscore young blondes, all between sixteen and nineteenandahalf, cut off in this castle, with no one to protect us. Oooh. It is a lonely life ... bathing ... dressing ... undressing ... making exciting underwear....
We are just not used to handsome knights ... But you are wounded!
No, It's nothing!
You must see the doctors immediately. You must lie down.
Make sure the Prince doesn't leave this room until I come and get him.
Not ... to leave the room ... even if you come and get him.
No. Until I come and get him.
No ... You stay in the room and make sure he doesn't leave.
... and you'll come and get him.
We don't need to do anything, apart from just stop him entering the room.
Leaving the room.
Leaving the room ... yes.
Got it?
Er ... if ... we ... er ...
Yes?
If we ... er ...
Look, it's simple. Just stay here and make sure he doesn't leave the room.
Oh, I remember ... can he ... er ... can he leave the room with us?
No .... keep him in here ... and make sure he doesn't ...
Oh, yes! we'll keep him in here, obviously. But if he had to leave and we were with him.
No ... just keep him in here.
Until you, or anyone else ...
No, not anyone else  just me.
Just you ...
Right.
Okay. Fine. We'll remain here until you get back.
And make sure he doesn't leave.
What?
Make sure he doesn't leave.
The Prince ... ?
Yes ... make sure ...
Oh yes, of course! I thought you meant him! You know it seemed a bit daft me havin' to guard him when he's a guard ...
Is that clear?
Where are you going?
We're coming with you.
No, I want you to stay here and make sure he doesn't leave the room until I get back.
Oh, I see, Right.
One day, lad, all this will be yours ...
What  the curtains?
No! Not the curtains, lad ... All that ... all that you can see, stretched out over the hills and valleys ... as far as the eye can see and beyond ... that'll be your kingdom, lad.
But, Mother ...
Father, lad.
But, Father, I don't really want any of that.
Listen, lad, I built this kingdom up from nothing. All I had when I started was swamp ... other kings said I was daft to build a castle on a swamp, but I built it all the same ... just to show 'em. It sank into the swamp. So I built a another one ... that sank into the swamp. I built another one ... That fell over and THEN sank into the swamp .... So I built another ... and that stayed up. ... And that's what your gonna get, lad: the most powerful kingdom in this island.
But I don't want any of that, I'd rather ...
Rather what?
I'd rather ... just ... sing ...
You're not going to do a song while I'm here!
I don't want land.
Listen, Alice ...
Herbert.
Herbert ... We built this castle on a bloody swamp, we need all the land we can get.
But I don't like her.
Don't like her? What's wrong with her? She's beautiful ... she's rich ... she's got huge tracts of land ...
I know ... but ... I want the girl that I marry to have ... a certain ... special ... something ...
But, Father.
Shut your noise, you, and get that suit on!
Who are you?
I'm ... your son ...
Not you.
Hurry, brave Sir Launcelot!
Shut up! You only killed the bride's father  that's all 
You fell out of the Tall Tower you creep!
I was saved at the last minute.
How?
Well ... I'll tell you ...
Did you kill all those guards?
Yes ... I'm very sorry ...
They cost fifty pounds each!
Well, I'm really am most awfully sorry but I ... I can explain everything ...
You killed eight wedding guests in all!
Er, Well ... the thing is ... I thought your son was a lady.
I can understand that.
Oh dear, I didn't really mean to...
Didn't mean to? You put your sword right through his head!
Gosh  Is he all right?
You even kicked the bride in the chest! It's going to cost me a fortune!
I can explain ... I was in the forest ... riding north from Camelot ... when I got this note.
Camelot? Are you from Camelot?
'Mm ... very nice castle, Camelot ... very good pig country....
Is it?
Do you want to come and have a drink?
Oh ... that's awfully nice.
It's just that when I'm in this genre, I tend to get overexcited and start to leap around and wave my sword about ... and ...
Oh, don't worry about that ... Tell me ... doesn't Camelot own that stretch of farmland up by the mountains?
Well taken, Concorde!
Thank you, sir, most kind ...
And another!
At last! A call! A cry of distress ... Concorde! Brave, Concorde ... you shall not have died in vain!
I'm not quite dead, sir ...
Oh, well ... er brave Concorde! You shall not have been fatally wounded in vain!
I think I could pull through, sir.
Good Concorde ... stay here and rest awhile.
I think I'll be all right to come with you, sir.
I will send help, brave friend, as soon as I have accomplished this most daring, desperate adventure in this genre.
Really, I feel fine, sir.
Farewell, Concorde!
It just seems silly ... me lying here.
Bring out your dead!
Here's one!
Ninepence.
'Ere. He says he's not dead.
Yes he is.
Don't be such a baby.
I can't take him.
I can't.
Well, can you hang around a couple of minutes. He won't be long.
I promised I'd be at the Robinson's. They've lost nine today.
When's your next round?
Thursday.
Thanks very much.
That's all right. See you on Thursday.
Who's that then?
I dunno, Must be a king.
Why?
He hasn't got shit all over him.
That's easy!
Stop! Who approacheth the Bridge of Death Must answer me These questions three! Ere the other side he see!
Ask me the questions, Bridgekeeper. I am not afraid.
What is your name?
My name is Sir Robin of Camelot!
What is your quest?
To seek the Grail!
What is the capital of Assyria?
I don't know that!
Who approaches the Bridge of Death Must answer me These questions three! Ere the other side he see.
Ask me the questions, Bridgekeeper. I am not afraid.
What is your name?
My name is Sir Launcelot.
What is your quest?
To find the Holy Grail.
What is your favorite colour?
Blue.
Right. Off you go.
Nothing... There's your ninepence.
I'm not dead!
He will be soon. He's very ill.
I'm getting better!
You're not. You'll be stone dead in a few minutes.
I feel fine.
Do me a favour.
I think I'll go for a walk.
You're not fooling anyone you know. Isn't there anything you could do?
I feel happy... I feel happy.
Well?
... Well, we did do the nose.
The nose?
And the hat. But she is a witch.
... Um ... Yes ... no ... a bit ... yes... she has got a wart.
Why do you think she is a witch?
Make a bridge out of her.
Ah ... but can you not also make bridges out of stone?
Exactly. So... logically ...
If she ... weighs the same as a duck ... she's made of wood.
And therefore?
Sorry ...
And don't apologize. Every time I try to talk to someone it's sorry this and forgive me that and I'm not worthy and ... What are you doing now?
I'm averting my eyes, Lord.
Well, don't. | I really don't know where all this got started. It's like those miserable psalms. they're so depressing. Now knock it of
Yes, Lord.
Right. Arthur, King of the Britons, you're Knights of the Round Table shall have a task to make them an example in these dark times ...
Good idea, O Lord!
Course it's a good idea.
Old woman!
Man!
Man. I'm sorry. Old man, What knight live in that castle over there?
I'm thirtyseven.
What?
:I'm thirtyseven ... I'm not old.
:Well  I can't just say: "Hey, Man!'
Well you could say: "Dennis"
I didn't know you were called Dennis.
You didn't bother to find out, did you?
I've said I'm sorry about the old woman, but from the behind you looked ...
What I object to is that you automatically treat me like an inferior ...
Well ... I AM king.
Oh, very nice. King, eh! I expect you've got a palace and fine clothes and courtiers and plenty of food. And how d'you get that? By exploiting the workers! By hanging on to outdated imperialist dogma which perpetuates the social and economic differences in our society! If there's EVER going to be any progress ...
I told you, We're an anarchosyndicalist commune, we take it in turns to act as a sort of executive officer for the week.
Yes.
... But all the decision of that officer ...
Yes, I see.
... must be approved at a biweekly meeting by a simple majority in the case of purely internal affairs.
Be quiet!
... but a twothirds majority ...
Be quiet! I order you to shut up.
You can't expect to wield supreme executive power just 'cause some watery tart threw a sword at you!
Shut up!
I mean, if I went around saying I was an Emperor because some moistened bint had lobbed a scimitar at me, people would put me away!
Shut up, will you. Shut up!
Ah! NOW ... we see the violence inherent in the system.
Shut up!
Come and see the violence inherent in the system. Help, help, I'm being repressed!
Bloody peasant!
Oh, Did you hear that! What a giveaway.
Come on, patsy.
What manner of man are you that can conjure up fire without flint or tinder?
I am an enchanter.
By what name are you known?
There are some who call me Tim?
Greetings Tim the Enchanter!
Greetings King Arthur.
You know my name?
I do. You seek the Holy Grail.
That is our quest. You know much that is hidden O Tim.
Quite.
What?
A G...g...g...
A Grail?
Look, you're a busy man ...
Yes, I can help you with your guest.
... make plain the last resting place of the most Holy Grail.
How shall we find this cave, O Tim?
Follow!
Too late.
What?
There he is!
Where?
There.
Behind the rabbit?
It is the rabbit.
... You silly sod.
What?
You got us all worked up.
Je...sus Christ!
I warned you!
Oh, shut up.
It's always the same ... if I've said it once.
Charge!
Ha ha ha. Ha ha ha.
Who did we lose?
Who are you who are so wise in the ways of science?
I am Arthur, King of the Britons.
My liege ... forgive me ...
Good Sir knight, will you come with me to Camelot, and join our number at the Round Table?
My liege, I am honored.
What is your name?
Bedevere, my Liege.
Then I dub you ... Sir Bedevere ... Knight of the Round Table!
And that, my lord, is how we know the Earth to be bananashaped.
This new learning amazes me, Sir Bedevere. Explain again how sheep's bladders may be employed to prevent earthquakes.
OF course, my Liege ...
Now what happens?
Well now, Launcelot, Galahad, and I wait until nightfall and then leap out of the rabbit and take the French by surprise, not only by surprise but totally unarmed!
Who ... Who breaks out?
Er ... We ... Launcelot, Galahad, and I ... Er ... leap out of the rabbit and ...
Who are you? TALL KNIGHT We are the Knights Who Say "Ni"!
No! Not the Knights Who Say "Ni"!
Nu!
No. Ni! More like this. "Ni"!
Ni, ni, ni!
| It's not working. You're not doing it properly. Ni!
Ni!
That's it. Ni! Ni!
Ni!
No. No. No!
They're nervous, sire.
Then we'd best leave them here and carry on on foot.
What with?
Just keep me covered.
There! Look!
What does it say?
What?
It's the ... oh ... it's the ... it's on the tip of my tongue ...
What?
It's The Legendary Black Beast of Aaaaarrrrrrggghhh! | | At that moment there is a yell and a scream OUT OF VISION. ARTHUR turns. | | ARTHUR | Who was that? | | HECTOR | | It was Sir Alf. | | ARTHUR | I didn't know we had a Sir Alf. | | HECTOR | He was feeding it bread. | | ARTHUR | | Well, that was a very silly thing to do. Now the rest of you stand | well back from the BLACK BEAST of Aaaaarrrrrrggghhh! | | HECTOR | Aaaaarrrrrrggghhh! | | ROBIN | Look out. | | The animation MONSTER starts lumbering towards them. The KNIGHTS retreat | into the darkness of the cave. | | GAWAIN | | It's only a cartoon. | | ARTHUR | Sh!
We shall attack at once.
Yes, my liege. Stand by for attack!!
Who are they?
Oh, just some friends!
Hello.
'Allo. Whoo is eet?
I am King Arthur and these are the Knights of the Round Table. Whose castle is this?
This is the castle of of my master, Guy de Loimbard.
Please go and tell your master that we have been charged by God with a sacred quest, and if he will give us food and shelter for this night he can join us in our quest for the Holy Grail.
Well, I'll ask him, but I don't think he'll be very keen. He's already got one, you see?
What?
Are you sure he's got one?
Oh yes. It's very nice + + CUT TO BATTLEMENTS. THE TAUNTER turns to some others. + + MAN + I told him we already got one. + + They all giggle. +
Well ... can we come up and have a look?
Of course not! You are English pigs.
Well, what are you then?
I'm French. Why do think I have this outrageous accent, you silly king.
None shall pass.
What?
None shall pass.
I have no quarrel with you, brave Sir knight, but I must cross this bridge.
Then you shall die.
I command you, as King of the Britons to stand aside.
I move for no man.
So be it!
Now stand aside worthy adversary.
'Tis but a scratch.
A scratch? Your arm's off.
No, it isn't.
Well, what's that then?
I've had worse.
You're a liar.
Come on you pansy!
Victory is mine. I thank thee O Lord that in thy ...
Come on then.
What?
You are indeed brave Sir knight, but the fight is mine.
Had enough?
You stupid bastard. You havn't got any arms left.
Course I have.
Look!
What! Just a flesh wound.
Stop that.
Had enough ... ?
I'll have your leg.
I'll do you for that.
You'll what ... ?
Come Here.
What are you going to do. bleed on me?
I'm invincible!
You're a looney.
The Black Knight always triumphs. Have at you!
All right, we'll call it a draw.
Come, Patsy.
The same!
Who are they?
We are the keepers of the sacred words. NI ... Peng ... and Neee ... Wom!
Knights Who Say "Ni" ... we are but simple travellers. We seek the Enchanter who lives beyond this wood and who ...
NI!
Oh!
NI! NI!
Oh!
We shall say Ni! again to you if you do not appease us.
All right! What do you want?
We want ... a shrubbery!
A what?
Ni! Ni! Ni ... Peng ... Nee ... Wum!
All right! All right! ... No more, please. We will find you a shrubbery ...
You must return here with a shrubbery or else ... you shall not pass through this wood alive!
Thanks you, Knights Who Say Ni! You are fair and just. We will return with a shrubbery.
One that looks nice.
Of course.
And not too expensive.
Yes ...
Now  go!
Oh, Knights of Ni, here is your shrubbery. May we go now?
That is a good shrubbery. I like the laurels particularly  But there is one small problem.
What is that?
We are now no longer the Knights Who Say Ni!
We shall do no such thing ... let us pass!
Oh, please!
Cut down a tree with a herring? It can't be done!
What word?
I cannot tell you. Suffice to say is one of the words the Knights of Ni! cannot hear!
How can we not say the word, if you don't tell us what it is?
You said it again!
What, "is"?
No, no ... not "is"!
Dennis! There's some lovely filth down here ... Oh! how d'you do?
How d'you do, good lady ... I am Arthur, King of the Britons ... can you tell me who lives in that castle?
King of the WHO?
The Britons.
Who are the Britons?
All of us are ... we are all Britons.
Please, please good people. I am in haste. What knight lives in that castle?
No one live there.
Well, who is your lord?
We don't have a lord.
What?
Order, eh  who does he think he is?
I am your king!
Well, I didn't vote for you.
You don't vote for kings.
Well, how did you become king, then?
The Lady of the Lake, her arm clad in the purest shimmering samite, held Excalibur aloft from the bosom of the water to signify by Divine Providence ... that I, Arthur, was to carry Excalibur ... That is why I am your king! | | OLD WOMAN | Is Frank in? He'd be able to deal with this one. | DENNIS Look, strange women lying on their backs in ponds handing out swords ... that's no basis for a system of government. Supreme executive power derives from a mandate from the masses, not from some farcical aquatic ceremony.
Where does he live? Old man ... where does he live ...
He knows of a cave ... a cave which no man has entered.
And ... the Grail ... The Grail is there?
There is much danger ... for beyond the cave lies the Gorge of Eternal Peril which no man has ever crossed.
But the Grail ... where is the Grail!?
Seek you the Bridge of Death ...
The Bridge of Death? ... which leads to the Grail?
Halt! Who goes there?
It is I, Arthur, son of Uther Pendragon, from the castle of Camelot. King of all Britons, defeator of the Saxons, sovereign of all England!
Get away!
I am... And this my trusty servant, Patsy. We have ridden the length and breadth of the land in search of knights who will join our court at Camelot.. I must speak with your lord and master.
What? Ridden on a horse?
Yes!
You're using coconuts!
...What?
You've got two empty halves of coconuts and you're banging them together.
So? We have ridden since the snows of winter covered this land, through the kingdom of Mercea.
Where did you get the coconuts?
Through ... We found them.
Found them? In Mercea. The coconut's tropical!
What do you mean?
Well, this is a temperate zone.
The swallow may fly south with the sun, or the house martin or the plover seek warmer hot lands in winter, yet these are not strangers to our land.
Are you suggesting coconuts migrate?
Not at all. They could be carried.
What? A swallow carrying a coconut?
It's not a question of where he grips it, It's a simple matter of weight  ratios ... A fiveounce bird could not hold a a one pound coconut.
Well, it doesn't matter. Go and tell your master that Arthur from the Court of Camelot is here.
Look! To maintain Velocity, a swallow needs to beat its wings four hundred and ninety three times every second. right?
Please!
Am I right?
I'm not interested.
How do you know she is a witch?
She looks like one. Yes, she does.
Bring her forward.
A witch, a witch, burn her!
Did you dress her up like this?
Burn her anyway.
Quiet! Quiet! There are ways of telling whether she is a witch.
There are? Tell up. What are they, wise Sir Bedevere?
Tell me ... what do you do with witches?
Burn them.
And what do you burn, apart from witches?
I see. Yes, of course.
So how can we tell if she is made of wood?
Ah. Yes, of course ... um ... err ...
Does wood sink in water?
No, no, It floats. Throw her in the pond Tie weights on her. To the pond.
Wait. Wait ... tell me, what also floats on water?
Bread? No, no, no. Apples .... gravy ... very small rocks ...
Cosmo. Many years ago, when they told me you were marrying my sister, I was happy. When I told Rose I was marrying Rita, she was happy.
Marriage is happy news.
Rita. Rita.
What? What?
Look.
Oh.
It's Cosmo's moon.
What are you talking about, Raymond? Cosmo can't own the moon.
I mean it's that moon I was talking about at dinner. Is he down there? No.
Is who down there?
Cosmo.
What would he be doing down there?
I don't know.
You know, in this light, and with that expression on your face, you look about twentyfive years old.
I feel great I got no sleep but I feel like Orlando Furioso!
You were a tiger last night.
And you were a lamb. As soft as milk.
Shut up. They'll hear you in the back.
So what? The pleasure of marriage is you sleep with the woman and then you don't worry about nothing. Hey, how about a date tonight, Rita. Let's eat pasta and roll around.
Raymond, Raymond, lower your voice! What's got into you?
I don't know! That moon! That crazy moon Cosmo sent over!
You got me.
You see that moon last night?
What are you talking about, you fool? Her fianc's in Palermo.
Oh. Right.
She's got it.
I knew she had it.
We didn't know what to think. You were so weird yesterday, and then this morning, we go to the bank and no bag.
WE NEVER SUSPECTED YOU!
That's my house.
You mean the whole house?
Yes.
My God, it's a mansion!
It's a house.
I live in a onebedroom apartment. What exactly does your husband do?
He's a plumber.
Well. That explains it.
I'm sorry if we disturbed you.
I'm not disturbed. By you.
My lady friend has a personality disorder.
She was just too young for you.
Ouch. Too young! I just got that. You know how to hurt guy. How old are you?
None of your business.
Sorry. That was rude.
Will you join me for dinner?
Are you sure?
Then I'd be delighted. I hate eating alone, and it's amazing how often I end up doing just that.
What do you do?
I'm a professor. I teach communications at N.Y.U.
That woman was a student of yours?
Sheila? Yes she was. Is. Was.
There's old saying my mother told me. Would you like to hear it?
Yes.
Don't shit where you eat.
I'll remember that. What do you do?
I'm a housewife.
Then why are you eating alone?
I'm not eating alone. Can I ask you a question?
Go ahead.
Why do men chase women?
Nerves.
I think it's because they fear death.
Maybe. Listen. You wanna know why I chase women? I find women charming.
I teach these classes I've taught for a million years. The spontaneity went out of it for me a long time ago. I started off, I was excited about something and I wanted to share it. Now it's rote, it's the multiplication table. Except sometimes. Sometimes I'm droning along and I look up, and there's this fresh young beautiful face, and it's all new to her and I'm this great guy who's just brilliant and thinks out loud. And when that happens, when I look out among those chairs and look at a young woman's face, and see me there in her eyes, me the way I always wanted to be and maybe once was, then I ask her out on a date. It doesn't last. It can go for a few weeks or a couple of precious months, but then she catches on that I'm just a burnt out old gasbag and that she's as fresh and bright and full of promise as moonlight in a martini. And at that moment, she stands up and throws a glass of water in my face, or some action to that effect.
What you don't know about women is a lot.
May I walk with you a ways?
Sure.
You knew that man?
Yes.
Temperature's dropping.
Yes.
I guess you can't invite me in?
No.
People home.
No. I think the house is empty. I can't invite you in because I'm married and because I know who I am. You're shaking.
I'm a little cold.
You're a little boy and you like to be bad.
We could go to my apartment. You could see how the other half lives.
I'm too old for you.
I'm too old for me. That's my predicament.
Good night.
Good night. Can I kiss you on the cheek, too?
Sure.
I'm freezing
Good night.
Yes?
Could you do away with her dinner, and any evidence of her, and bring me an big glass of vodka?
But absolutely!
Can I get another one of these?
Definitely!
May I presume to ask you a question?
Sure!
Do you have a girlfriend?
I am alone in the world.
When I was twentyseven years old, in Jersey City, I asked a woman to marry me. She had red hair. She smelled a jasmine. She wore black shoes with pointy white tips.
What happened?
She didn't hear me. She asked me to repeat, so she could understand what I said. But I wouldn't repeat it. Outta shyness. So I'm a bachelor.
Don't mind about me. But could you do me a favor and clear her place and take away all evidence of her, and bring me a big glass of vodka?
Absolutely!
Thanks, comrade.
It's nothing!
Loretta...
Johnny...
Ronny! Our mother has recovered from death!
Good.
Have you come to make peace with me?
Well. Yeah. You may not want to.
Of course I want to.
I'm sure she did.
It was a miracle!
Because my mother was dying! But now she's not.
You're fortytwo years old, Johnny, and Mama is still running your life.
And you are a son who doesn't love his mother!
Moving in?
I came right from the airport.
Come on in.
Can you wake up Loretta? I need to talk to her.
She's not home yet. Take off your coat and come in the living room. I'll make you a drink. I wanna talk to you.
So.
Where is she?
Out. I don't know where. I was waiting up for my husband.
It's late.
Yes.
Maybe I should go?
What are you doing here? You're supposed to be in Palermo.
That's what I came to tell Loretta. There's been a miracle.
A miracle. Well, that's news.
My mother's recovered.
You're kidding?
The breath had almost totally left her body. She was as white as snow. And then she completely pulled back from death and stood up and put on her clothes and began to cook for everyone in the house. The mourners. And me. And herself! She ate a meal that would choke a pig!
That's incredible.
Yes.
Who was that?
That was my fatherinlaw, who has a wrong idea in his head. Listen, Johnny, there's a question I want to ask you. And I want you to tell me the truth if you can. Why do men chase women?
Well. There's the Bible story. God took a rib from Adam and made Eve. Maybe men chase women to get the rib back. When God took the rib, he left a hole there, place where there used to be something. and the women have that. Maybe a man isn't complete as a man without a woman.
But why would a man need more than one woman?
I don't know. Maybe because he fears death.
That's it! That's the reason!
I don't know.
No, that's really it. Thank you for answering my question.
He doesn't like you. Thank you for answering my question.
You don't know where Loretta is?
No idea.
Then tell her I'll come by in the morning. We need to talk.
Okay, I'll tell her.
Lucy. There are big things going on in my house. My granddaughter Loretta, the only daughter of my son Cosmo, has engaged herself to be married a second time.
I have heard that Johnny Cammareri got down on his knees in The Grand Ticino and proposed to her.
My son does not like this Johnny Cammareri. He says he is a big baby.
Don't fight.
My granddaughter wants my son to pay for the wedding. But he does not want to pay.
He should pay.
I don't know.
He owes her a wedding from the first time when there was none.
Maybe. I don't know. He has not asked my advice. If he asks my advice, I don't know what I will say.
Don't fight.
If I hit the stick too hard, the apple will split. If I am too timid, the apple will fall off the stick.
Don't make yourself sick.
Cosmo drank five glasses of wine at dinner.
Talk to him.
I will. But I must find the right moment.
Did you see the moon last night?
Bless me, Father, for I have sinned. It's been two months since my last confession.
What sins have you to confess?
Twice I took the name of God in vain, once I slept with the brother of my fianc, and once I bounced a check at the liquor store  but that was really an accident.
Then it was not a sin. But what was that second thing you said, Loretta?
I... a... slept with my fianc's brother.
That's a pretty big sin.
I know.
You should think about this.
I know.
Alright. This is your penance. Say two rosaries and... be careful, Loretta. Reflect on your life.
Alright.
I absolve you in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit, Amen.
Hi.
Hey there ...YOU WITH THE STARS IN YOUR EYES...
What's the matter with him?
What about the moon?
Did you see it?
No.
Oh.
Listen, I gotta go. I'll take the deposit to the bank but I'll do the books tomorrow. I gotta go.
You gotta date?
Hi, Loretta.
Hi. Why ain't you at the store?
We just come from the bank.
The bank. OH MY GOD, I FORGOT TO MAKE THE DEPOSIT!
No.
Good. When you love them they drive you crazy cause they know they can. But you like him?
Oh yeah. He's a sweet man. I wanna have a big church wedding, Ma. And a reception.
And who's gonna pay for that?
Pop.
Will you live here?
No.
Why not?
Pop don't like Johnny.
So we'll sell the house.
I got married before, you didn't sell.
Grandma was still alive. Chiro was still home going to school. Now he's married and gone to Florida. If you and Johnny moved in, had a baby...
I'm thirtyseven years old.
What's thirtyseven? I had Chiro after I was thirtyseven. It ain't over till it's over.
Johnny has a big apartment. We'll live there.
And we'll sell the house.
I'd like to stay, Ma. I love the house. But Pop don't like Johnny.
No. He don't.
How's the mother?
She's dying. But I could still hear her big mouth.
Did he tell her?
Not yet. That old lady makes him sweat. Where's that card?
Hi.
Where you been?
I don't wanna talk about it.
Just like your father. I lied to him. He thinks you came home last night.
Thanks. What's the matter with you?
Cosmo's cheating on me.
What! How do you know?
A wife knows.
Then you don't know. You're just imagining it. He's too old.
What the hell happened to you?
Well. I don't really know where to start.
Your hair's different.
Everything's different.
Are you drunk?
No. Are you drunk?
No. But I have a hangover.
Where's pop?
Upstairs. Johnny Cammareri showed up last night.
What? He's in Sicily!
No more he's not.
He's with his dying mother!
She recovered.
WHAT!! She was dying!
It was a miracle.
A miracle? This is modern times! There ain't supposed to be miracles any more!
I guess it ain't modern times in Sicily. He came right from the airport. He wanted to talk to you. You got a love bite on your neck. He's coming back this morning.
Do you love him, Loretta?
Yeah, Ma, I love him awful.
Oh God, that's too bad.
You don't want the fish.
No?
It's the oily fish tonight. Not before the plane ride.
Maybe you're right.
Give him the manicotta, Bobo. Me, too.
A man who can't control his woman is funny.
She was too young for him.
You never have dessert.
Never is a long time.
What's the matter?
My scalp is not getting enough blood sometimes.
Have Something.
I shouldn't.
Will you marry me?
What?
Will you marry me?
Bobo, take the cart away.
Are you proposing marriage to me?
Yes?
You know I was married and that my husband died. But what you don't know is I think he and I had Bad Luck.
What do you mean?
We got married at the City Hall and I think it gave bad luck the whole marriage.
I don't understand.
Right from the start we didn't do it right. Could you kneel down?
On the floor?
Yes, on the floor.
This is a good suit.
I helped you buy it. It came with two pairs of pants. It's for luck, Johnny. When you propose marriage to a woman, you should kneel down.
Alright.
I like this ring.
You propose to a woman you should offer her a ring of engagement.
What time is it?
Seventhirty.
So we'll pick up the car, we'll make the plane in plenty of time.
What about the wedding?
My mother is dying. When she is dead, I'll come back and we'll be married.
How near is she to death?
A week. Two weeks. No more.
Then let's set the date.
How about a month from today?
Must it be so definite? Can't we just say that we will be married when I get back?
Where? At the City Hall? No! I want the whole wedding or we will have Bad Luck. For a whole wedding to be planned, a date must be set.
Alright. A month. In a month.
A month from today?
Yeah.
I'll take care of it, Johnny. I'll take care of the whole thing. All you have to do is show up.
I'll call you when I get to Mama's house.
You've made me very happy, Johnny.
There's one thing about this wedding I want you to do. Call this number. It's a business number. Ask for Ronny. Invite him to the wedding.
Who is he?
He's my younger brother.
You have a brother?
We haven't spoken in five years. There was some bad blood. I want you to call him and invite him to the wedding. Will you do it?
Sure.
Ssh, it's me. I'm calling from the deathbed of my mother.
How was your plane ride?
The waitresses were very nice. My mother is slipping away.
Have you told her we're getting married?
Not yet. I'm waiting till a moment when she's peaceful.
I don't know. But Johnny, how did your mother recover? She was dying.
We should talk alone.
I can't. I need my family around me now.
Well. I told my mother that we were to be married. And she got well. Right away.
Johnny, I have something to tell you.
I have something to tell you. But I must talk to you alone.
I have no secrets from my family.
Loretta, I can't marry you.
WHAT?
If I marry you my mother will die.
And you're a big liar! I've got your ring here!
I must ask for that back.
In time, you will see that this is the best thing.
In time, you will drop dead, and I will come to your funeral in a red dress.
What?
Where's the ring?
I got things to do.
Sure you do. You got all that wedding stuff.
Right.
What's the matter? You look crazy.
I got a lot on my mind, Aunt Rita.
Bye, Aunt Rita.
Bye, bye, honey. See you tomorrow?
Yeah, I'll be in.
Hi Loretta.
Hi.
Is there anything you want to tell us, honey?
You? No.
It's Johnny Cammareri.
Johnny.
Yeah, this is Ronny.
I'm calling for your brother Johnny. He's getting married and he wants you to come.
Why didn't he call himself?
He's in Palermo.
What's wrong can never be made right.
Let me come and talk to you.
Have you come from my brother?
Yes.
Why?
I'm going to marry him.
You are going to marry my brother?
Yes. Do you want...
I have no life.
Excuse me.
I have no life. My brother Johnny took my life from me.
I don't understand.
Gimme the big knife! I'm gonna cut my throat!
Maybe I should come back another time.
No, I want you to see this! I want you to watch me kill myself so you can tell my brother on his wedding day! Chrissy, gimme the big knife!
It's wood. It's fake. Five years ago I was engaged to be married. Johnny came in here, he ordered bread from me. I put it in the slicer and I talked with him and my hand got caught cause I wasn't paying attention. The slicer chewed off my hand. It's funny 'cause  when my fianc saw that I was maimed, she left me for another man.
That's the bad blood between you and Johnny?
That's it.
But that wasn't Johnny's fault.
I don't care! I ain't no freakin monument to justice! I lost my hand, I lost my bride! Johnny has his hand, Johnny has his bride! You come in here and you want me to put away my heartbreak and forget?
Loretta. What's that smell?
I'm making you a steak.
You don't have to help me.
I know that. I do what I want.
I like it well done.
You'll eat this bloody to feed your blood.
This is good. Uhh...
Loretta.
Where'd Johnny find you?
He knew my husband who died.
How'd he die?
Bus hit him.
Fast.
Instantaneous.
When you get engaged?
Yesterday.
Why?
Why what?
I don't know.
So. Five years ago your hand got cut off and your woman left you for another man. No woman since then?
No.
Stupid.
When your husband get hit by the bus?
Seven years ago.
How many men since then?
Just Johnny.
Stupid yourself.
No. Unlucky. I have not been lucky.
I don't care about Luck, you understand me? It ain't that.
What? Do you think you're the only one ever shed a tear?
Why you talking to me?
You got any whiskey? How 'bout giving me a glass of whiskey?
She was right to leave me.
You think so?
Yes.
You really are stupid, you know that.
You don't know nothing about it.
I was raised that a girl gets married young. I didn't get married until I was twentyeight. I met a man. I loved him. I married him. He wanted to have a baby right away. I said no. Then he got hit by a bus. No man. No baby. No nothing! I did not know that man was a gift I could not keep. I didn't know... You tell me a story and you think you know what it means, but I see what the true story is, and you can't. She didn't leave you! You can't see what you are. I can see everything. You are a wolf!
I'm a wolf?
The big part of you has no words and it'sa wolf. This woman was a trap for you. She caught you and you could not get away. So you chewed off your foot! That was the price you had to pay to be free. Johnny had nothing to do with it. You did what you had to do, between you and you, and I know I'm right, I don't care what you say. And now you're afraid because you found out the big part of you is a wolf that has the courage to bite off its own hand to save itself from the trap of the wrong love. That's why there has been no woman since that wrong woman. You are scared to death what the wolf will do if you make that mistake again!
What are you doing!
I'm telling you your life!
Stop it!
No!
Why are you marrying Johnny? He's a fool!
Because I have no Luck!
He made me look the wrong way and I cut off my hand. He could make you look the wrong way and you could cut off your whole head!
I am looking where I should to become a bride!
A bride without a head!
A wolf without a foot!
Son of a bitch!
Where are you taking me?
To the bed.
Oh. Oh God. I don't care about anything. I don't care about anything! Take me to the bed.
I can't believe what is happening.
Me neither.
I was dead.
I was dead, too.
Your blood.
All my life I have never reached a man. I knew that I would reach my husband, but I took my time and he was dead. Ronny.
Loretta.
I want to cut you open and crawl inside of you. I want you to swallow me.
I've got you.
Get all of me. Take everything.
What about Johnny?
You're mad at him, take it out on me, take your revenge on me! Take everything, leave nothing for him to marry! Hollow me out so there's nothing left but the skin over my bones. Suck me dry!
Alright. Alright. There will be nothing left.
What?
That light.
I don't know. I think it's the moon.
It's so bright.
I've never seen a moon like that.
It makes you look like an angel.
Oh my God.
What?
What? What have we done?
Take it easy.
This time I was trying to do everything right.
Don't just become excited.
I thought if I stayed away from the City Hall, I won't have that Bad Luck I had again.
You're trying to make me feel guilty.
I'm marrying your brother!
All right, I'm guilty. I confess!
You're invited to the wedding! It's in a few weeks. Why didn't you do like him and be with your dying mother in Palermo?
She didn't like me.
You don't get along with anybody!
What did you do?
What did I do?
You ruined my life.
That's impossible! It was ruint when I got here! You ruint my life!
Oh no I didn't!
Oh yes, oh yes you did! You've got those bad eyes like a gypsy! Why didn't I see it yesterday! Bad Luck! Is that all I'm ever gonna have? Why didn't I just pick up a stone and kill myself years and years ago? I'm gonna marry him!
What?
Last night never happened, you hear me? I'm gonna marry him anyway and last night never happened, and you and I are gonna take this to our coffins!
I can't do that!
Why not?
I'm in love with you!
Snap out of it!
I can't!
Alright. Then I must never see you again. The bad blood will have to stay there between you and Johnny for all time. You won't come to the wedding.
I'll come to the wedding.
I'm telling you you can't.
But he wants me to come!
But that's cause he don't know!
Alright. I will not come. Provided one thing.
What?
That you come with me tonight. Once. To the Opera.
What are you talking about?
I love two things. I love you, and I love the Opera. If I can have the two things that I love together for one night, I will be satisfied to give up the rest of my life.
Alright.
Alright. Meet me at the Met.
Alright. Where's the Met?
Hi.
Hi.
You look beautiful. Your hair...
I thought I'd try it. You look good.
Thank you.
Who painted that?
Marc Chagall. A Russian.
Kinda gaudy.
He was having some fun. Yeah, well he's dead. Come on, let's go in.
Thank you!
For what?
I don't know. For your hair. For your beautiful dress. For... you know, I feel like a man again. You know I love the Opera. You know it's been a long time since I've been to the Opera.
So. Where are we sitting?
Come on.
They get some turnout for this stuff.
It's the best thing there is.
I like parts of it, but I don't really get it.
That was just so... awful!
Awful?
Beautiful. Sad. She died!
Yeah.
I couldn't believe it! I didn't think she was going to die. I knew she was sick...
No thanks.
I think that's it.
What do you want to do now?
I wanna go home.
It's really cold.
Yeah. It smells like snow.
What's the matter?
How can you ask me that?
You're making me feel guilty again.
You are guilty. I'm guilty.
Of what? Only God can point the finger, Loretta.
I know what I know.
And what do you know? You tell me my life? I'll tell you yours. I'm a wolf? You run to the wolf in me, that don't make you no lamb! You're gonna marry my brother? Why you wanna sell your life short? Playing it safe is just about the most dangerous thing a woman like you could do. You waited for the right man the first time, why didn't you wait for the right man again?
He didn't come!
I'm here!
You're late!
We're here.
This is your place.
That's right.
This is where we're going!
Yeah.
The deal was if I came to the Opera with you you'd leave me alone forever.
I went with you. Now I'm gonna marry Johnny and you're gonna leave me alone. Right? A person can see where they've messed up in their life, and they can change how they do things, and they can change their Luck. Maybe my nature does draw me to you, but I don't haveta go with that. I can take hold of myself and say yes to some things and no to something that's just gonna ruin everything! I can do that. Otherwise, what is this stupid life that God gave us for what? Ronny? Are you listening to me?
Yeah.
I'm really afraid.
Why?
I'm afraid of who I am.
I was.
And you're not now?
Why not?
I don't know. Everything seems like nothing now against that I want you in my bed. I don't care if I burn in hell. I don't care if you burn in hell. The Past and Future is a joke to me now. I see that they're nothing, I see they ain't here. The only thing that's here is you. And me. I want you to come upstairs. Now. I tried to take everything last night, like you told me, but I couldn't. I couldn't take everything in a hundred years. It's the way we are. We compound each other.
Let me go home.
No.
Let me go home.
No.
I'm freezing to death.
Come upstairs. I don't care why you come. No, that's not what I mean. Loretta, I love you. Not like they told you love is and I didn't know this either. But love don't make things nice, it ruins everything, it breaks your heart, it makes things a mess. We're not here to make things perfect. Snowflakes are perfect. The stars are perfect. Not us. We are here to ruin ourselves and break our hearts and love the wrong people and die! The storybooks are bullshit. Come upstairs with me, baby! Don't try to live your life out to somebody else's idea of sweet happiness. Don't try to live on milk and cookies when what you want is meat! Red meat just like me! It's wolves run with wolves and nothing else! You're a wolf just like me! Come upstairs with me and get in my bed! Come on! Come on! Come on!
Ronny!
Is Johnny here?
He's coming.
Good! We can get this out on the table. I'm Ronny, Johnny's brother.
You've gotta get outta here.
No. I'm gonna wait.
Ronny, please...
No, I'll tell him.
No, I'll tell him. What am I going to tell him?
What the hell are you talking about? We're engaged.
Loretta, what are you talking about?
I'm talking about a promise. You proposed to me!
Loretta?
What!
Will you marry me.
Will you marry me, Loretta Castorini Clark?
Before all these people, yes, I will marry you, Ronny Cammareri!
It's wrong to just let them go.
Good morning, Lucy.
What do you want me to do? Pick up after five dogs? I'm eightythree years old. God in his heaven understands that I cannot pick up after five dogs.
You have too many dogs.
I won't have to shoot those dogs. They will kill each other.
You think so, huh, Stupid? Those dogs love each other.
At dinner, my daughterinlaw threatened to kill me. Things are very bad in my house.
Hurry up.
We're supposed to do fifty apples. We only got twelve done.
I don't know what to advise my son. I think he should pay for the wedding, but it is important that he don't look ridiculous.
Yes!
Hurry up, hurry up. We open in five minutes.
And then there is copper, which is the only pipe I use. It costs money. But it costs money because it saves money.
And what did they say?
The man understood me. The woman wanted to be cheap, but the man saw that I was right.
You have such a head for knowing. You know everything.
I brought you something.
Oh, Cosmo!
They are little stars and birds. Birds fly to the stars, I guess.
You haven't once said you like my dress.
I like your dress. It's very bright.
Why you looking around so much?
I don't know. I got a feeling.
I'm wearing your bracelet.
Where's Ma?
Bed.
You're not sleepy?
I can't sleep anymore. It's too much like death.
Pop, I got news.
Here. Ti amo.
Ti amo.
You look tired.
What's your news?
I'm getting married.
Again?
Yeah.
You did this once it didn't work out.
The guy died.
What killed him?
He got hit by a bus.
No! Bad luck! Your Ma and I been married fiftytwo years an nobody died. You were married, what, two years, and somebody is dead. Don't get married again, Loretta. It don't work out for you. Who's the man?
Johnny Cammareri.
Him? He's a big baby. Why isn't he here with you telling me?
He's flying to Sicily. His mother's dying.
More Bad Luck! I don't like his face, Loretta. I don't like his lips. When he smiles I can't see his teeth. When will you do it?
In a month.
I won't come.
You've got to come. You've got to give me away.
I didn't give you away the first time.
And maybe that's why I had the Bad Luck. Maybe if you gave me away, and I got married in a church, in a wedding dress, instead of at the City Hall with strangers standing outside the door, maybe then I wouldn't had the Bad Luck I had.
Maybe.
I didn't have no wedding cake, no reception or nothing. Johnny got down on his knees and proposed to me at The Grand Ticino.
He did?
Yeah.
That don't sound like Johnny. Where's the ring?
Here.
It looks stupid. It's a pinky ring. It's a man's ring.
It's temporary.
Everything is temporary. That don't excuse nothing.
So you'll come to the wedding, right?
Let's go tell your Mother.
Mona?
What'd you do to your hair?
I got it done.
What are you doing here?
What are you doing here?
Who is this man? You're engaged!
You're married.
You're my daughter. I won't have you acting like a tramp!
You're my father.
Alright. I didn't see you here.
I don't know whether I saw you or not.
Hi. Hi.
Hello, Mr. Castorini.
I have my eyes open.
You do, huh? Stick around. Don't go on any long trips.
I don't know what you mean.
I know you don't. That's the point. I'll say no more.
You haven't said anything.
And that's how much I'm saying.
I don't wanna talk about it.
Johnny Cammareri. I think it's great and about time. What's she gonna do with the rest of her life she don't get married?
I don't wanna talk about it.
Rose, pass the wine.
I never seen anybody so in love like Cosmo back then! He'd stand outside the house all day and look in the windows. I never told you this cause it's not really a story. But one time I woke up in the middle of the night cause this bright light was in my face. Like a flashlight. I couldn't think a what it was. I looked out the window, and it was the moon! Big as a house! I never seen the moon so big before or since. I was almost scared, like it was gonna crush the house. And I looked down, and standing there in the street was Cosmo, looking up at the windows. This is the funny part. I got mad at you, Cosmo! I thought you brought this big moon over to my house cause you were so in love and woke me up with it. I was half asleep I guess and didn't know no better.
You were altogether asleep. You were dreaming.
No. You were there.
Who's dead?
Nobody. Loretta is getting married.
Again? Johnny Cammareri.
I don't like him.
You're not gonna marry him, Cosmo. Do you love him, Loretta?
I have no money!
You're rich as Roosevelt. You're just cheap, Cosmo.
I won't pay for nothing.
He didn't used to be cheap. He thinks if he holds on to his money, he will never die.
I don't wanna talk about it.
Well, what do you wanna talk about!
Rita. Pass the wine.
Why you drinking so much?
Where you been?
I don't know, Rose. I don't know where I've been, and I don't know where I'm going. You should have your eyes opened for you, my friend.
Cosmo?
What?
I just want you to know. No matter what you do. You are going to die, just like everybody else.
Thank you, Rose.
You're welcome.
I'm going to bed now.
Cosmo, this is Ronny, Johnny's brother.
His brother.
Have I been a good wife?
Yes.
I want you to stop seeing her.
Okay.
And go to confession.
A man... under stands one day... that his life is built on nothing. And that's a bad, crazy day.
Your life is not built on nothing. Ti amo.
Are you ready?
Hello, Bobo. How are you tonight?
Very good, Mr. Johnny.
We will both have the Salad Ticino.
Uhhuh
And I'll have the special fish.
No, I want to see the dessert cart.
Very good.
I forgot to bring the champagne, Mr. Johnny.
I forgot to wave. We'll have it at the wedding.
Oh, you're not going. You're staying.
No, I'm going.
The Shawfish?
Just across the bay, at the fuel depot. The men wanted to try to get home. I can't explain.
Then, I suppose the time has come say it's been nice Dwight Lionel. It's been everything. Oh, Dwight, I'm frightened.
I know, I am so sorry for so many things. I love you, Moira. I love you. I love you.
Twentysix, twentyseven. So far so good.
That's not so good for you, my friend.
Thirtytwo and change.
Doesn't mean it's a signal. Could just be the hard drive heating up.
How long until we reach the Chunnel?
Twenty minutes.
Yes... Its him.
This wasnt what we discussed.
Whats the problem.
Connection denied.
Try it again.
Its not working.
Is something wrong with the phone? Well is something wrong with the batteries?
I always check the batteries.
Run it through from the top.
Its working.
Phew! Weve got five minutes...
Look to your right, then back to me. There's a camera built right into the bridge. Whatever you see it sees and transmits it back here. Can you hear me?
Of course I can hear you.
No, in your...ear piece. You have a lovely smile . Can you hear me now?
Loud and clear.
What's going on?
I don't know.
Why don't you take a look?
Jack...that's spying.
That's what we do isn't it?
Jack you're so wicked.
Too wicked to have a drink later?
I think I might just take that look.
Such a nice ass.
And a lonely ass.
Yeah, well, Jim, fact is I've got more than ninety days leave coming.
A hundred and sixtyseven, I think it is. Take it all, if you want. <u>After</u> this one.
I thought I'd take some now.
What the hell's made you decide to take your leave at the worst possible time? Claire's in a weird mood too.
Oh? What's the problem?
I don't know, I had to go to Chicago again. You were in Kiev. You tell me.
Tell you what?
When you started noticing your short term memory loss. What <u>the problem was</u> you and Claire had in Kiev?
What problem?
Ah, God, forget it. What are we talking burnout here?
I guess.
Ethan, you <u>can't</u> burn out.
Why not?
Because I can't afford it. And because you'd burn up before you'd burn out.
How was Chicago?
Wonderful. Ran into a convention of auto dealers at the Drake Hotel. You hear the one about the astronaut who comes back from the first manned flight to Mars after two years? His wife's got a year old kid. So he says "All right. Who was it? My friend Harry?" She says no. "Oh, it was my friend Sammy." She says it wasn't Sammy. "Oh, I suppose it was my friend Lou." "No, what's the matter, don't you think I have any friends of my own?!"
You're going to use Walter?
He's our guy.
Isn't he chairing the Armed Services hearing?
Not this week. This week he's flyfishing at the Oughterard Slough in County Kildare, with one of our best Irish guides.
He won't be back in a hurry?
No, not in a hurry. What do you think? You think the plot'll work?
Sure. If the main character does.
If you were me, Ethan, who would <u>you</u> trust to make him believable?
Jack's pinned down Sarah. Should be a second. Keep dancing.
We were forced to tie him to my best stallion and drag him around the barn a few times.
Ive got a shadow.
Can you lose him?
No. Abort.
Abort. Thats an order.
<u>Negative</u>, Golitsyns on the move.
Where are you?
About two hundred yards from the bridge.
Theyre covering this frequency, Ethan. Cut all radio communications. Repeat. Cut all radio communications.
..the next day I managed to drag myself to the safe house, must've just missed you..anyway, I checked our aliases.
 and picked us up in the States 
 but you left before I could get there and I could check just so many places..
Yeah, smaller countries don't computerize customs records 
 so I watched Europe. Once you showed up in England..it was easy.
You knew I liked the rentals at Liverpool Street.
Hey, I showed 'em to you!
I remember..
Jim, who do you think you're kidding? A doctor's gotta look at that. You can't sit up straight.
I can sit up straight. I just can't..sit up straight very well. It's not important! I saw who shot me. Ethan, I saw the mole. It was Kittridge. <i>Kittridge!</i>
Kitteridge. Oh my god! Kittridge is the mole?
Yeah.
How did Kittridge do it?..
..when you think about it, Ethan, it was inevitable..no more Cold War. No more secrets you keep from everyone but yourself, operations you answer to no one but yourself. Then one morning you wake up and find out the President of the United States is running the country  <i>without your permission</i>. The sonofa bitch! How <i>dare</i> he? You realize its over, youre an obsolete piece of hardware not worth upgrading, youve got a lousy marriage and sixtytwo grand a year. Kittridge, well go after that no good sonofabitch, big time!
We dont have to, Jim. Hell come after us.
Whats going to make him do that?
What he didnt get in Prague. The NOC list.
Jesus, Ethan. Good for you.
A meeting tomorrow on the TGV, enroute to Paris.
Tight security. No guns. Real plus.
If I supposedly deliver the NOC list to Max, Max has agreed to deliver Job to me. Ill have Claire and Luther Stickell with me on the train. Marcel Krieger will have helicopter transport waiting in Paris.
Jim...?
I was sitting in a cafe waiting for you and suddenly there she was, standing in the rain just outside the safe house..alive and beautiful..and thinking Im dead and gone. God knows what shes had to do forget about me to keep going and get the job done, I..
 no. She cant know about me. No one can. Not til this is over. Theres too much at stake, Ethan.
Youre probably right.
I usually am.
Once we leave the safehouse, get in there and crash. Ill call you from Paris.
You got it.
And get a doctor.
Good luck.
Before London. But after you took the Bible out of the Drake Hotel in Chicago.
They stamped it, didnt they? Those damn Gideons.
I knew about Jim.
But, he didnt know about you. In all fairness, Ethan, Claire was never convinced her charms would work with you. But I was supremely confident  having tastes the goods. "Thou shall not covet thy Neighbours wife", Ethan. Oh, Ethan is in love with you, Claire, make no mistake about it. And like all the worlds lovers, hes tortured by the same, one pathetic question  "does she feel the same way I do?"
Tell me something Claire, that night in Prague, was it you or Jim that blew up the car and scattered Hannah all over town?
Keep counting Claire.
Arent you going to thank me Jim. Ten million is better than six.
Dont flatter yourself  six was for <u>Eastern Europe</u>. You made a lousy deal  ten for the world? What is that? But I needed you for the transfer with Max. I got a little extra change; and you got a little extra too.
Sorry Ethan. Times up. Say goodbye.
Youre wrong about one thing. Im not the only one whos seen you alive.
Jim, its over.
Ethan  Ive always taught you, nothing can be more dangerous than the truth. It can kill you.
Would you remove your hat please?
Why?
You wish to meet Max? This is the price of admission.
I thought I was going to see Max.
You misunderstood. No one sees Max.
Then what am I doing here?
Allowing Max to see you and hear what you've got to say.
I don't communicate very well through a shroud.
If Max doesn't like what you have to say, you'll be wearing that shroud indefinitely.
I'm willing to take the chance.
Very well.
Fortyfour. Fortyfive.
I'd say you've got about two minutes.
Higher. Higher.
Higher.
Right, right. Good.
OK. Taking Golitsyn's exit. Jack, open the doors.
What about my coat? I'll freeze.
The package is in the open.
Jim. Jim. Hes in the open.
Ethan. Hes out of pocket.
Jim we cant.
Sarah eye on the package. Jim, Im coming to you.
Jim gave an abort, we should walk away.
No, were going to recover the disk, understand?! Now move!
Claire.
Jack.
IS THERE ANY PARTICULAR REASON WE'RE NOT OUT OF HERE YET?!
Just waiting for you, tubs.
Sorry, am I interrupting?
Always.
Give me the God damn gum.
Just don't chew it.
Jack. Jack.
I didn't touch it.
He's got it. Saved your ass again Jack.
Give me a break, Pops.
In position. Jack open the door, let the package roll.
Roger that. Opening doors now.
Stairway, youre wrapped, go to transport.
Simple game. Four players. Exfil opens the pocket   cyber ops lifts the wallet.
Bank?
IMF mainframe.
Where exactly is it?
In Langley.
Zero body count.
We'll see.
Time up.
Merci.
We're not outta here yet.
You're not going to any meeting without me.
My contact is extremely shy.
That's not it. That's not the list.
What's the matter, you don't know this trick?
What sector's the air conditioning?
Uh  twentyone, but there's no alarm in sector twentyone.
I gotta go in there and shut it down!
Nobody goes into any sector where the alarm didn't go off.
Do you <u>want</u> to blow the fire through the whole building?
Wait! Hold it  it's on. Let's go.
Let's move!
Who are you and what are you doing here?
I need one hundred thousand dollars.
Really? And you thought if you simply showed up I might give it to you?
Why not? You gave Job a hundred and twenty five thousand.
The penny drops. <u>You</u> are <u>not</u> Job. Yes, Job is not given to quoting Scripture in his communications. And there was its tone  aggressive but playful. Job is not playful. So you're something of a paradox.
That depends.
On what?
Whether you like a paradox. I want a hundred and fifty thousand dollars.
It's quite out of the question.
The disk Job sold you is worthless. It's bait, part of an internal molehunt.
And how might you know that? Are you another Company man?
Like Job?
Ah, but, we're asking about you.
I'm NOC. Was. <u>Now</u> disavowed.
Why, may I ask?
That's the question I want to ask Job.
I don't know Job any more than he knows me.
Even so, I'm sure you could arrange an introduction.
Why should I?
Because I can deliver the actual NOC list. The one you have is not only worthless, it's certain to be equipped with a homing device to pinpoint your exact location.
It's easy to say the disk is worthless when you say I can't look at the information and <u>see</u> if it's worthless. Not a tenable position, sir.
Okay, boot it up and in anywhere from thirty seconds to ten minutes you're gonna have Virginia farm boys hopping around you like jackrabbits.
Mm  Hmmm...
Tell you what. How good's the RF scanner you used in the car?
Very good.
Okay, use it. But I suggest pack up first.
Thanks, Max. Or is it Maxine?
I don't have to tell you what a comfort anonymity can be in my profession  like a warm blanket. My deal with Job was subject to a successful boot scan. Obviously it didn't pass muster. Deal's off.
What was your deal with Job?
Six million dollars. I'll give you the same. But I want the complete list now, not just Eastern Europe. I won't do this piecemeal, it's too dangerous. I want the <u>entire</u> list, the true name of every nonofficial cover agent throughout the world.
<u>Ten</u> million. Ten million in negotiable U.S. Treasury certificates, in bearer form, coupons attached. And one more thing  your personal assurance that Job will be at the exchange.
Done. Bring it to me in London. I want it by the end of the week.
How will you make sure Job will be there?
How will you make sure I'll have the list in three days? It's been a delight. Now where can I drop you dear boy?
I'm not being dropped anywhere without my money.
I'm going to have to front you personally. Don't lose that money without losing your life.
I wouldn't dream of it.
Ha, dear boy! I do hope this doesnt prelude a meeting in private.
It doesnt, dear girl. as long as you tell me where the money is.
The possibility alone is worth ten million. Baggage car, rack 3. Silver briefcase. Combination 314.
What about Job?
I wouldnt worry about him. Once youve got the money  hell find you.
What are we downloading?
Information.
What kind?
Profitable.
This doesn't sound like the Luther Stickell I've heard of. What'd they used to call you? The Net Ranger? Phineas Phreak? The only man alive who actually hacked NATO Ghostcom.
There was never any physical evidence that I had anything to do with that.. that.. With that exceptional piece of work.
You don't know what you're missing. This is the Mt. Everest of hacks.
You're all kidding yourselves. Even with top of the line crypto. Cray access. STU 3's 
May take a little time. That's not what Claire tells me about you.
Thinking Machine laptops, I'm talking about the 686 prototypes  <u>with</u> the artificial intelligence Risk chip 
And I get to keep the equipment when we're done.
Luther, I guess you're all out of excuses.
I can't just hack my way inside. There's no modem access to the mainframe, it's in a standalone. I'd have to be physically at the terminal.
Luther, relax, it's worse than you think. The terminal's in black vault lockdown.
Krieger <u>did</u> have the NOC list.
Now I want you to hold onto it.
What makes you trust me?
Because if you knew what you were getting into, you never would have done it.
I'm not letting this list get out in the open.
Exactly, that's your job. Tomorrow on the train, you can't let this list get out into the open. What's the range of this thing?
It's hard to tell. I'm gonna have to be close.
I'll get you close.
Reach your folks? How they feeling?
About what?
The official apology from the Justice Department, the VIP treatment, you know, the whole nine yards.
Well my Mother was a little confused about how the DEA could mistake her and Uncle Donald for a couple of dope smugglers in the Florida keys.
Here's to you, Luther. To being off the disavowed list.
Hey, I'm the flavour of the month!
You're more than that, Luther. They were mistaken about you and they're trying to show you they know it. They want you back in.
Sure. They want me back in so I won't break in! They <i>still</i> can't figure out how we did it.
You didn't tell 'em at the debriefing?
I figured I'd let 'em reinstate my back pay, give me a promotion, check out my office at Langley and <i>then</i>, maybe, talk about it.
It's all one big negotiation, isn't it?
Why don't you come back with me?
Just don't know why I'd be doing it.
You really liked Phelps, didn't you?
He was a good guy for a long, long time. Just  not long enough. Gotta catch my flight.. So. How's it feel being a solid citizen again?
Oh man...I don't know. I'm gonna miss being disreputable.
Well, Luther  if it makes you feel any better I'll always think of you that way.
This is Kittridge.
Go secure.
Go ahead.
Theyre dead.
Whos dead?
My team. Claire, Jack, even Jim   Hannah, maybe, I  dont know
Are you damaged?
They knew we were coming. Golitsyns dead too. The disk is gone.
<u>Are you intact</u>?
Do you read me? <u>The list is in the open</u>!
Let's just bring you in safely, and then we'll worry about that, okay? Were you followed?
I dont think so.
Dont <u>think</u>, be <u>sure</u>. Are you clean?
Yes.
Location green. One hour. Ill be there myself.
Youre in Prague?
Heard a lot about you, Hunt. Dont disappoint me.
No sir.
One hour.
I can't tell you how sorry I am. I know how much Jim in particular meant to you, Ethan. Personally as well as professionally.
Yeah.
Passport, visas  you know the drill. We'll work the exfiltration thru Canada, debrief you at Langley. Throw the Prague police a bone, you know toss them a few suspects. Follow me?
Yeah. I follow you.
We've lost enough agents for one night.
You mean <u>I've</u> lost enough agents for one night.
You seem hell bent on blaming yourself, Ethan.
Who else is left?
Yes. I see your point.
Why was there another team?
What?
Of IMF agents. At the Embassy. Tonight.
I don't quite follow you.
Let's see if you can follow me around this room. The drunk Russians on the embankment at 7 and 8 o'clock...The couple waltzing around me at the Embassy at 9 and 11. The waiter behind Hannah at the top of the staircase  Bowtie, 12 o'clock. The other IMF team. You're worried about me. <u>Why</u>?
You're right. Maybe this'll save some time.
For a little over two years now we've been spotting serious blowback in IMF operations. We have a penetration. The other day we decoded a message on the Internet from a Czech we know as "Max."
The arms dealer.
That's right. Max, it seems, has two unique gifts  a capacity for anonymity and for corrupting susceptible agents. This time he's gotten to someone on the inside  he's put himself in a position to buy our NOC list. An operation he referred to as "Job 314". The job he thought Golitsyn was doing tonight.
But the list Golitsyn stole was a decoy.
Correct the actual list is safe at Langley. "Golitsyn" was a lightning rod, one of ours.
This whole operation was a molehunt.
Yes, the mole's deep inside. And  like you said. You survived.
Since your father's death, your family's farm has been in subchapter S and now, suddenly, they're flush with over a hundred and twenty grand in the bank. Dad's illness was supposed to have wiped out the bank account  dying slowly in America after all, can be a very expensive proposition Ethan. So, why don't we go quietly out of here onto the plane...
How about if we just go quietly into the bathroom and I wash your mouth out with soap  you pathetic button down bureaucratic asshole.
Ethan, I can understand you're very upset.
Kitteridge, you've never seen me very upset.
Kittridge.
I see you've been out visiting the folks.
It's Hunt. What do you need for a pinpoint? Been watching a little T.V., have you?
Can I ask you something, Kittridge?
Certainly Ethan.
If you're dealing with someone who's crushed, stabbed, shot and detonated five members of his own IMF team, how devastated do you think you're going to make him by marching Ma and Uncle Donald down to the county courthouse?
I don't know, Ethan. Suppose you tell me?
Did we get it?
We got it. On your feet.
I want to sleep. Can I sleep here.
Walk, just walk. Start walking.
I'm walking.
Talking's good, walking's better.
Sleeping's better.
Are <u>you</u> all right Ethan. What's wrong with you?
If you're gonna do this again Claire, It's not gonna be on my watch.
Oh yeah?
Sarah's reconsidering. Claire, transport in five minutes.
Roger that.
Ethan  Ethan, it's okay. It's Claire. Ethan what's wrong with you?
Don't move.
You were in the car!
I wasn't. I heard that Jim was in trouble on the radio. He said someone was...
Shut up! I saw you. You were in the car.
No, I got out of the car and I ran to the bridge.
Don't give me that! I was on the bridge.
What happened to Jim?
There was nobody on the bridge.
What happened to Jim?
They're dead. Jim's dead.
Take off your coat.
What?
Take off your God damn coat!
Where were you?
I walked away. He said abort. He was gone so I walked away.
That was four hours ago! Who sent you? Did they send you here?
Who is "they?"
Did they send you...Did they send you?
Who is they, who is they?
Who sent you?! Who sent you?
No one sent me! We're supposed to be back here at four o'clock, four o'clock, if we abort, we don't return here until four o'clock, 0four hundred, four am, four o'clock !
Why haven't they brought us in yet?
I've been disavowed. They think I killed Jim and everyone else. Somehow a hundred thousand dollars found its way into my parents' bank account. Kittridge assumes I'm a mole they've been tracing and I've been in the employ of an arms dealer, Max, for the last two years, to get him our NOC list.
What are you going to do?
I'm going to get it for him. Whoever the mole is, I think goes by the name of Job, at least part of the time. 1 can't find him, but if he knows 1 have the NOC list, he'll find me.
Ethan, you're not making sense. Let me go in and talk to Kittridge. I'm going to tell him you had nothing to do...
Claire, Claire, Claire, if you're not dead, he's going to assume you're with me.
The message is for Job.
I'm going to answer it.
Max made a deal with you?
I deliver the NOC list, Max delivers Job.
We've got seventyfive rounds for your Glock 9, but only twenty for the Sig Sauer, one pair of Visco glasses with monitor, plenty of passports. You said it yourself  if I'm not dead, I'm with you.
You're sure about this?
Jim was my husband. I want to know who killed him. I want to get the son of a bitch who did this.
We need help, and we don't have time. They have to be local.
What kind of help?
May I come in?
Sure...
It's cash. And a second passport. If anything goes wrong when we're inside, if you sense even the slightest deviation don't look over your shoulder, you walk away  you hear me? Just walk away.
You don't think we're going to make it.
I didn't say that.
You didn't have to.........
I just need you to be safe.
What about you?
What about me  Jim called an abort  I didn't comply. I lost the team. I just need you to be safe.
I'm so sorry. Krieger was my call. I've never worked with him. I'm sorry, Ethan.
We did what we had to do.
I'm going to try and get some sleep.
Kittridge...
Bastard!
What are you going to do?
He's expecting my call. I'm going to the station... And I'm going to call him.
What happened?
I sent the message to Max. Were on for tomorrow.
Okay...
Is this the only way?
Yes.......come here....viens pres moi...
Ethan...Kittridge is on the train.
Kittridge is Job. Max delivered. How far is he from Luther?
Two cars. Where are you?
You are my eyes. Stay with him.
Ethans right behind me. Listen to me Jim. Is it such a good idea to kill him? We take the money. Ethan takes the blame. Noone else has seen you alive. Noone will believe him.
Of course  Im sorry to hear you say that Claire.
Ethan?
Claire...Hey...
This stuff is so sticky.
Claire.
Its all right, Ethan..youll bring me back...wont you...
I always have, Claire..
Is he serious?
Always.
If we're going to Virginia, why don't we drop by Fort Knox? I can fly a helicopter right in through the lobby and set it down inside the vault and it will be a hell of a lot easier than breaking into the God damn CIA.
Krieger can get it. Right?
May take a little time.
I don't think you're in any position to give orders, do you? Not while I'm holding this.
Krieger.
Stay out of this. OR Lachez  moi OR T'agueue
You knew about Jim?
Course he did. Just exactly when he knew is something of a question. Before or after I showed in London, mind telling me, Ethan?
Two minutes til Krieger shows. Thisll have to be quicker than Id like. Certainly quicker than youd like.
Ethan, if you knew about Jim?..Why..
Why the masquerade? Why take the risk? Well, Claire, youve asked the question and you are the answer.
Well Claire do you? Have you been exploiting his feelings or returning them?
Jim  lets just get the money and get out of here.
Satisfied?
All ten million.
Fold it. Fold it tight.
Dont Jim.
Now we dont have to eliminate him? You like that, dont you Claire? Dont you?
Yes.
The man's gone black, Barnes. He's under until he decides to surface.
Look we can use someone from the Embassy and we can get the local authorities involved. Close off his transportation.
What can we do, Barnes? Put a guy at the airport? How many identities do you think Hunt has? How many times has he slipped past custom, in how many countries? These guys are trained to be ghosts. <u>We</u> taught them how to do it, for Christ's sake!
So what do you suggest?
Let's not waste time chasing him. Make him come to us. Everybodys got pressure points. Find out something that's important to him personally and you squeeze.
That's S.O.P..
S.O.P..
<u>Think</u>, for Christ's sake, you guys are mired in detail, open your minds, it's gotta be staring us in the face! What does Ethan Hunt <u>want</u>?!
Same thing he wanted in Prague! Same thing he's always wanted! The NOC list!
Okay!
You and I know about this  and that's where it stops. Understand? It never happened.
What about him...?
Only four more cars.
And if we dont find him  well search the whole train again.
Whats Hunt doing on the TGV?
High speed train. Noone gets on. No one gets off. High security. Good place for a pass off to Max.
But why tell us?
Hes putting on a show, Barnes.
What kind of show.
I dont know. It didnt say on the tickets.
Nothing but civilians, Gene.
This is bullshit  we dont even know what Max looks like.
Maybe we dont have to know what he looks like. If hes got that list, hes going to want to check it. We should be looking for laptops.
Good idea.
Kasimov, Kasimov, good that you called us.
I don't remember what happened! We were at the bar, drinking, laughing  having fun.
C'mon, c'mon, tell the truth...c'mon.
They'll kill me.
You asked for my help. You <u>asked</u> for <u>my</u> help...come on...
You're right, of course.
Come on!
His name is.....Dimitri Miediev.
Dimitri Miediev...Dimitri Miediev...
To friends.
Yes, Anatoly, yes.
A visit from an old friend.
What's happening here? You're dead!
Fatigued, certainly. But dead is a little extreme. On the other hand, when me dear Gradski had your pulse and blood pressure he has less than ten hours to live.
It was in the bloody papers, on the telly..what's this about Gradski?
You are infected with <i>Chimera,</i> my friend.
You have Bellerophon.
Do I?
You took it! All of it! And what if I need it?
'If?' My, my, my...the five hundred people on Bruny Island that you deliberately infected with <i>Chimera</i> needed it as well.
Oh, please! How was I to know they had to be treated with Bellerophon within twenty hours?
By asking me.
You still don't get it, do you? You want to make an omelet, you break a few eggs  <i>I needed to know just how bad the disease was</i>  in the real world, not the lab. And you never know til you try. You thought you were genetically splicing together strains of influenza to create a cure for all influenzas. But I saw you creating a disease so terrible in <i>Chimera</i> that the cure would be priceless.
You wanted the disease in order to peddle the cure.
Well, the thought had occurred to me. I needed Chimera in order to peddle Bellerophon. For hero to be appreciated, you need a monster. Now that's not so difficult to understand, is it? Look, time was a shot of penicillin could knock off every bloody bug in the zoo! Not anymore!..have you any idea the R&D money it takes to float one little pissy boutique antibiotic that's barely effective against one strain of one bacterium? If I couldn't makes money killing the microscopic little shits that are out there, you'd help me put one out there I can make on!..there it is. I've confessed. I, John C. McCloy, am in business to make money. Lilly's making billions feeding Prozac to depressed dogs. Pfizer doesn't even know where to put the money they're making on Viagra, and let me tell you that shit didn't do a thing for me even at twice the recommended dose, Jesus, who do I have to screw to get a a break!..now get me out of here, get me treated and let's go back to work!..
You know, I think it's a little late for that. Do give my regards to Gradski if you see him.
It's the transponder.
Put in the coordinates and let's get a visual. The visuals aren't coming up.
The satellite doesn't work as fast as I do.
Nekhorvich specialized in recombining DNA molecules. In the myth, Bellerophon killed Chimera, a recombinant monster with the head of a lion and the tail of a serpent who plagued the ancient world. I think Nekhorvich has created a monster virus in Chimera and apparently the means to kill it in Bellerophon.
That simple, huh?
Why not?
Luther..get us everything you can on the outbreak of influenza on Bruny Island last month, including photos of the victims.
Right. I guess there aren't many flu epidemics in the middle of summer.
Nekhorvich's boss?
Yep.
Ambrose just pulled the memory card out of the digital camera and put it into an envelope, put it in his inner left jacket pocket...
Left jacket pocket?
Roger that.
Confirm. Left jacket pocket.
Left jacket pocket confirmed.
Nyah, Ambrose is heading back. There's an enveloped inside 
I don't know, but Nekhorvich was not a manic. Get me a twenty on Nyah.
She must still be on the property.
I told her to get outta there.
Ambrose got Bellerophon from Nekhorvich on the plane, but he didn't get the Chimera virus.
Yeah. Why else would he come back to Australia? If he had them both, he could sell them anywhere.
I kill Chimera at Biocyte and he's sitting on a cure without a disease.
You've got the voice print, I'll get us in..
Sorry, that it a Biocyte facility, their storage structure..
Nyah still on the property?
Let's start from the inside out.
All storage and production of Chimera is done here, in this lab on the fortysecond floor, the heart of the building.
Now how to get in there.
No garage entrance. Lobby's protected by five guards on rotating patrol.
Thirtysecond opening in the roof and a 250foot drop.
I'm not waiting 48 hours. When we're done at Biocyte, if she's not out of Ambrose's, I'm going in and getting her out.
Luther, I'm looking at security.
Oh. Uh. Commencing diversion. Alarm in cosmetics.
Ethan, I keep telling you there's not a chance of locating Nyah til I access the satellite and there's not a chance of doing that til I get this thing booted up and running! How much time does she have left?
Ninetyseven minutes, twentyseven seconds.
Luther, say again.
She's on the North Head Bluff  approaching the cliffs. One klick away.
Copy. She's only got twentyeight minutes left. Track ahead and pick her up.
So what did he say?
Good job. And thanks.
You keep staring at that watch as if your life depended on it, Doctor..
Well, yes. I suppose I am a bit anxious.
They're ready and waiting. You'll soon be with old friends.
I'm with an old friend now, Dmitri.
Sorry it couldn't be under happier circumstances.
Yes, I'm sorry too.. 'You're sorry and I'm sorry..'  you do know Gradski thought the world of you.
He was quite a man. Did he know before the end you two had succeeded?
Yes, he knew. Just..
..not in time to save him.
No. After you've lived with <i>Chimera</i> for twenty hours, nothing can save you. Not even...<i>Bellerophon.</i>
..it seems we have a problem, Dmitri.
You keep calling me Dmitri. You really shouldn't.
..I'm fine..and you?
I'm fine..
Sorry I didn't let you know where I was.
Don't be. Wouldn't be on vacation if you did.
Well. You're sorry and I'm sorry.
Why did you phrase it like that?
Like what?
'You're sorry and I'm sorry.'
You gotta be kidding.
An idea, yeah.
Like?
Like it's a good idea to pick him up in a hurry. And a bad idea to fly him on a commercial carrier. So let's get on with it. He's still in Sydney?
Dr. Vladimir Nekhorvich is dead. So is his colleague, Gradski, but that happened earlier. We had Nekhorvich on a flight from Sydney that crashed in the Rockies..
If he didn't want to go anywhere without me, how did you get him on the flight?
You were there.
When I couldn't find you, I had to replace you. Sean Ambrose was the obvious choice. He double you, what? Two, three times?
Twice.
What did you think of him?
You know we had reservations about each other. Isn't it a little late in the day to be asking me that?
Not necessarily.
So there's one thing we know Ambrose doesn't.
Then you do think it was Ambrose.
Whatever Nekhorvich was carrying Sean wanted and he wanted to conceal the fact that he took it.
Enough to kill Nekhorvich and two hundred innocent passengers?
Sean feels he hasn't done the job unless he leaves a lot of hats on the ground.
The question is why? What was this Chimera Nekhorvich was carrying?
Right now only Ambrose knows that.
In any case, you've got to recover Chimera and bring it to us.
In order to do that, I've got to figure out how he plans to make money with it.
 right. In fact since the plane went down our banking sources have confirmed a marked increase in the stock pilling of cash in terrorists accounts.
'Terrorists?'
Well you know Nekhorvich's history. You're the one who got him out of the Soviet Union was it still in bio weapon business.
If that's what you're thinking Ambrose would have set up a bidding situation with any number of buyers before he got on the plane. Locating him in time to stop something like that 
 is where Miss Hall comes in.
Excuse me?
Miss Hall and Ambrose had a relationship which he took very seriously. She walked away and he's wanting her back ever since. We believe she's our surest and quickest way of location him.
And then what?
Then makes sure she continues to see him. Gets him confide in her and report to you.
You made it sound as if I was recruiting her for her skills as a thief.
Well, then I mislead you. Or you made the wrong assumption. Either way we're asking her to resume a prior relationship, not do anything she hasn't already done.
She's got no training for this kind of thing.
Go to bed with a man and lie to him? She's a woman. She's got all the training she needs.
I don't think I can get her to do it.
You mean it'll be difficult.
Very.
Well it's not mission <i>difficult,</i> Hunt. It's mission <i>impossible.</i> Difficult should be a walk in the park for you. If you can think of a quicker way to get to Ambrose, you're welcome to try. Oh, by the way, you might want to take a look at these..if you have any further qualms about getting her to do the job.
Not yet. We did manage to pull any sensitive equipment and material out of our safehouse wreckage.
We could lock down passport control and all ports of authority, but that won't stop Ambrose, and beyond him, we don't know who else we're looking for  all terrorist bank accounts of which we're aware are stable. No deposits, no withdrawals. Therefore no suspects.
We think we've got our finger on the buyer.
Do you? Even assuming you're able to prevent Ambrose selling Chimera, you've now got an additional problem. You destroyed all of Chimera at Biocyte. If Ambrose is going to sell Chimera now, he'll have to do it by taking a pint or so of Miss Hall's blood to market.
Yes, I believe that's right.
But that leaves another seven or eight pints of Chimera.
You mean that leaves Miss Hall.
Yes, I believe that's right. Now my understanding is that 20 hours after exposure, the victim becomes infectious. Highly infectious.
 good. Then if you manage to get hold of Ambrose, and obtain what he's got, you've got   8 hours 57 minutes and twentythree seconds to destroy the largest remaining source of Chimera on earth.
She sacrificed herself..
Brave girl. If you can get hold of Bellerophon with the time limit, you may spare her the ultimate sacrifice. But in either case you've got less than nine hours to kill her or cure her. After that it's out of our hands and a matter of worldwide material law. And Hunt. However you obtain it, we want you to preserve a sample of Chimera. Bring it back alive.
Something else?
Aren't you even curious? About why she did it?
No. I can't afford to be curious. And neither can you, Hunt..
Sorry, Ethan. I don't quite know where to begin. Any suggestions?
You'd like me to conduct my own debriefing.
Why not? You've done just about everything else on this operation.
I'd thank you  but I'm not sure that was a compliment.
Of course it was. Anyone whose operations requires the level of disinformation that yours do, is bound to get a little flak here and there. You try flogging the stories on CNN I've had to come up with about what's been going on around here the last few days. At any rate, it's been most instructive  what they'll swallow, or what they'll broadcast with a straight face. Miss Hall's blood, it appears, has absolutely no elements of the Chimera virus. Not even antibodies.
Yes, I gathered as much.
And the only other remaining sample was in the canister you recover from Ambrose.
Yes.
And that appears to have been destroyed. It also contained the antivirus, Bellerophon.
Well, Bellerophon, it turns out, was only really effective against Chimera.
But you were under specific instructions to bring back a living sample of the Chimera virus. I'd be very interested to know how, after you'd managed its recovery intact, it subsequently got destroyed.
By fire. That's the best way, really.
No, I don't. But in this case 
In this case, it wasn't a bad idea. In face, it was a pretty damn good idea. Just don't make a habit of it. And, as for Ms. Hall, in light of her efforts, her criminal records will certainly be expunged. I'm assuming you approve.
I do.
Where is she now, by the way? Do you know?
I don't. No exactly.
Well, Hunt, what are your plans?
Not sure. Some sort of vacation. I'll let you know where I'm going.
Oh, you don't have to do that. Wouldn't be a vacation if you did.
Do you know me?
No. Should I?
No. You just looked as if you did.
No. Just as if I'd like to.
Oh. Well. I think that can be arranged.
Not tonight. Bad timing. Sorry 
There's not enough time in the world for any of it to be bad.
Look, it's either you or the rent and I don't mind telling you it's not an easy choice.
What if I pay the rent?
Uhhuh.
Uhhuh?
What are you doing here?
Think you're the only one who can pick a lock?
I see. You're not just another pretty face..
Would you mind if I'm on top?
Oh, either way works for me.
 right..where is it?
Far right.
Where's the bloody 
 torque wrench.
 this is very disconerting..
Hey, you put me here. I just do what I'm told.
 right..
I wouldn't do that.
Do what?
Under the circumstances I think we would recommend resetting the senors to respond to a lighter load. How do you feel about forty kilos, Miss Hall?
Indeed.
Well, Senor de l'Arena, there's no reason to disrupt your party any longer. we have some further concerns about the disposition of your security guards, which you'll receive in our written report by fax in the morning, hard copy to follow. Shall we?
I'm missing something here, aside from a 500,000 pound necklace. Even after I botched the job, I could've walked out of there with the bloody thing.
At least you walked.
If you weren't going to let me get away with it, why did you let me go thru with it?
Wanted to see how good you were. I'm hoping we might work together.
May I say something, no offence? You look like a gigolo, you sound like a thief, you act like a cop  what the bloody hell do you have in mind?
Working under adverse conditions. Highly adverse conditions.
Sounds smashing. I'm in. Muchacho, mi carro, por favor! Now be serious. You couldn't possibly want me off tonight's performance..
You didn't do that badly.
You're apologizing for me? Quite the gentleman..
Not really. I triggered the alarm..
Hola..
Hi. Would you mind slowing down?
Where did you get this number? I don't even have it!
Pull over and listen to me, will you? Just listen..
Listen to what?
I need your help and I thin you can use mine.
Your help? What are you talking about?
Scotland Yard, Interpol, every Dutch authority. I can make them go away.
Oh bloody hell. You're a spy.
What's you name?
Ethan Hunt.
Well, Ethan Hunt, what is it you want to talk to me about?
Awfully short notice..
Care to wait a decent interval?
Who wants to be decent?..
When they've got your recruiting technique? Not a thing.
Oh. Well..this isn't exactly by the book.
They've got a book for this?
They've got a book for everything.
The only other spook I knew was a liar. Charming but absolutely incapable of telling the truth. He'd lie about his favorite color. But then I reckon it's an occupational hazard. All spies really do is conceal the truth and tell lies.
Not revealing information doesn't necessarily make someone a liar.
That's not the point. In the end what spies rely on is the one thing they think they know that you don't.
Which is?
That they're lying.
So where did I got right?
You're not a liar. Or you're an awfully good one.. ..this thing these blokes pinched..
I don't know that they 'pinched' it. Don't even know that they're blokes.
Well, then, what I am I doing here? I assume I'm meant to be some sort of thiefto catchathief..
So do I. Sort of.
Spoken like a spook..you ever afraid?
Of what?
Ask a question, you get an answer!..
Damn, you're beautiful.
That's because I'm on my back.
What's the population of Seville any idea?
Five, sixhundred thousand.
There's nearly 2 million in London.
And six billion in the world.
That's lot of people out there..how many of them, I wonder, are capable of something like that?
Sean Ambrose, for one.
Not that it matter much but..I seem to recall you staying something like, 'I was hoping we could work together.'
This wasn't what I had in mind, Nyah.
But it is what you'd like me to do. so tell me to do it..
Go and insinuate yourself back into Sean's life.
I'd like a little more conviction..
So would I. But it's not mine to give.
You've either got it or you don't. Let your conscience be your guide?
Something like that.
But I don't have a conscience. I'm a bloody thief.
You can be a thief and have a conscience.
No. You can be a thief and have a conscience: Not me. Why did you have to tell me about this! What do I have to do to get away from this guy? When you're with him, he messes about with your head every waking moment..even now I'll be at some outof thewayplace, a tin of caviar and a bottle of Crystal shows up at the table, with two glass, God knows how he finds out at any given moment where I am in the world but he does. And it looks like he's done it again. You know his definition of a true paranoid?
I don't.
Someone in possession of all the facts. Are you telling me I have to do this?
Generally, I don't favor coercing someone. Not when there's a chance my life could end up in their hands.
And that's the only reason?
Can you think of a better one?
Not me. I was just hoping you might..or that..somehow in the course of business this got personal as well as physical.
Look, would it make you feel better if I didn't want you to do this?
Much.
Then feel better!..
Sean will never be anything but suspicious if he picks up some sort of 'yoohooI'm notnad' message. Not after the way we broke up.
What wouldn't make him suspicious?
Probably that I needed him in some urgent way..destitute  in serious trouble..the kind I couldn't possible sort out myself..
Look, I can't run your arrest in CNN, but I guarantee he's monitoring every law enforcement agency in the world, for what they might be saying about him, if nothing else  he's got the ability and, we assume, the desire to get you out of there.
This doesn't seem to be accomplishing much.
Well, I mean it's not a total loss. It is keeping a very capable thief off the street..
Very funny..maybe he has heard and doesn't want to know. Maybe he's lost interest.
Before you are.
How can you possibly? I've got to get right on the plane. I'm leaving now.
You don't trust me.
Oh, I do. But as we know I'm a very poor judge of character.
He's got you on Qantas flight 2735. It's going to be delayed.
Yes?
You'll be fine. I'm going to lose you.
Ethan, you take care of yourself, I'll take care of myself because if push comes to shove, I'm gonna bail  and without giving two week notice.
Well, forewarned is forearmed. And while we're at it, be especially sensitive to any sudden change in Ambrose's plans, especially any involving you..
How's it going? Everything okay?
Just like old times.
Just like old times?
Just about..
We know him. He's over your left shoulder, looking right at you as you go on..
 Michael, his driver's an Aussie, new to me. Then there's the blokes in the annex at the back of the house.
Have you met them?
Annex is strictly off limits to me and they never come to the main house, Michael even takes their meals to them all but shoves them under the door.
I've no doubt.
Ambrose has photographs of newspapers with loads of money piled on them  thirty seven million on the London Times. What's that about?
Bids from possible Chimera buyers  to prove that as of the date on the newspaper those bids are back up by earnest money 
 his left jacket pocket.
Affirmative.
Where do I meet you?
Betting table twelve off the paddock. Nyah, are you up to this?
I'll muddle through.
I managed.
You noticed. What're you going to do? Spank me?
I want <i>you out of there.</i>
Why? What's happened. What did you see?
Nyah, you've done more than enough. Even the best of snake charmers get bit.
Ethan, tell me 
I want you out of Australia! ..I don't know how much more plainly I can put it.
How do you suggest I go about it?
He's touched your heart. You're overwhelmed. You need to think it over. You'll meet him somewhere in a month. If You're not out in 48 hours I'm coming in and getting you out. Give me the ear piece.
Easy, easy, easy, shhh!
Oh Ethan!..
Are you okay?
I am now. Get me out of here. Just get me out of here.
It's going to be okay.
Ethan, you know what frightens me most when I'm with him?..the thought of never seeing you..how are we getting out of here?
Nyah, it's very important not do anything to alarm Ambrose..
What? You told me to get out of here. I thought you were here to collect me. I was so relieved.
No time to explain. You've done well, and we're so close. So close. It's critical that you do whatever Ambrose asks. Don't worry  it'll be over soon.. That's a promise.. Come on, now off you go!
What did you think you were doing!
I wasn't thinking! Just..trying to keep you from getting hurt, that's all.
 you who don't have a conscience.
I guess I lied..You can't get both of us out of here, can you?
No.
Then you'll have to kill me before it's too late. Before I start killing people.
No.
I'm infected with Chimera. You know you don't have a choice. Just do it now.
No. Should I?
No. You just looked as if you did.
No...
I'm booted up. Go, Ethan.
He's heading down the stairs, now..
Say again. Sounds like you're saying 'she's in the building.'
I am. She is.
She's in the elevator heading toward Ethan.
How much longer before you can reach him?
Five and a half minutes. He's breached the hot zone..
How're we doin', then?
He should've have killed the virus in the incubation area..Nyah's exited the elevator on the same level as the lab.
What can we do' mate?
Hope he kills all the bugs before the yellow dot gets to the red one.
It is, Billy.
Then we got'em!
Ambrose obviously got these from Nekhorvich on the plane.
What manic invents disease like that in the first place? Why would he do it?
So Ambrose has Bellerophon and McCloy's got Chimera.
There guys are walking around with different halves of the same dollar bill?
Package away in five..four..three.. two..one...
I'm not ready!
Billy. I think we got a problem. Nyah's on the wing. Up early. Billy, do you copy?
Exactly where is she?
..in the building...
Before we kill her or cure her..
Right.
We're due to take off.
Not for seven more minutes.
Range is two kay.
I hope there's a place to land.
There she is. I got visual.
We're down to seven minutes 23 seconds..
That's it? That's it? That's it?
And the check's in the mall.
Right. Just remember, mates. Billy Baird's the name. Anything you need to get, move or watch, I'm your man.
Damn. Just when it was about to get interesting.
It's okay. She scrambled the transmission. Luther, continue feeding the GPS her position.
What you got there, mate?
A myth..just a myth...shouldn't you be checking out their countersurveillance?
Well you know his blokes'll place the OSCOR in his annex, where else if you're pinpointing transmitters, video signals, covert chip cameras, anything radiating, oscillating..
..or hard wired..
 or hard wired, right. First line of perimeter defence'll run from the back of the dock to the front of the house. Whatever moves burps or bleep is gonna be picked up to a height of twenty feet. Basically impenetrable, I'd say.
Well do you disagree with that?
Not at all. But how about going into town and confirming your intuitions on site?
Oh well, if that's how you feel about it.
Ambrose is meeting some bloke in the bar. Big bloke, ginger hair. They're into something.
I'll be damned. It's McCloy, the Biocyte CEO.
Wrong. All we've got to worry about is Ambrose. Nyah will take care of Nyah.
What are you talking about?
Unless we dose her with Bellerophon on the next ninetyseven minutes, Nyah will kill herself. So, first things, first. Swanbeck said there's no cash movement from any monitored terrorist accounts.
Checkpoint Charlie plus 30, altitude minus twozerothousand. Airspeed oneseven niner knots..
It's that time. Go.
Not exactly. Wallis?
More like twotwo point two million.
In any case we don't want your cash.
 now here's the way it's going to work..Wallis, the shares outstanding are..
Ninetythree point four million.
Which means, Mr. McCloy, we have to get our hands on four hundred and eighty thousand options. We'll borrow your thirty million to buy those options. Your stock's never sold above thirtyone dollars a share. We'll agree to buy at fifty.
Nyah!
Billy, make sure Nyah's not followed.
If you look at Hunt's operational history, he invariably favors misdirection and deception. For a start he won't go into Biocyte from the ground where he has to risk confrontation with security.
Not going in from the ground. Show me the atrium.
Fight a bit of a cold..
And you're happy about that?
Beats fighting the flu, I'm here to tell you.
You know, that was the hardest part of having to portray you. Grinning like an idiot every fifteen minutes.
I would've thought the hardest part was exercising restraint. Curbing that pressing need of your to get your gun off. You were in such a hurry to knock off that 747, you never figured out where the virus really was.
I knew where it was.
Oh. then you knew the only way could smuggle the live virus to the CDC scientists in Atlanta was by injecting himself and using his own bloodstream as a Petri dish, doing it inside of twenty hours so he could take the antivirus and still have it be effective. You knew that while you were knocking him off and destroying the very thing you came for.
There it is, guys, the last of it.
Yep. You've provided us with a golden opportunity to have both the bug and the bug killer.
What was the top bid?
Why, you going to make me a better offer?
Than thirtyseven million pounds? Not really.
Somebody's been slipping you our mail. Come on out here, you bad girl.
She doesn't belong here, Sean. Let her go.
She wouldn't be here if it wasn't for you, Hunt. from this moment you're responsible for what happens to her, and if you're looking out for her wellbeing, I suggest you advise her to pick up the gun and bring it to me. Ball's in your court, Hunt. What've you got to say? Nyah's waiting for your answer.
Oh, Hunt, please! One can't hold Nyah responsible for her actions..
In other words, you're calling her a flake.
Bellerophen? No time at all once I've got it.
Good. Biocyte stock is just a week or two away from going through the roof.
What are you talking about?
An outbreak of <i>Chimera.</i>
Where?
In downtown Sydney for a start.
Outrageous. I won't let you take control of my company.
Sit down. You'll be a billionaire. Better than being broke. I've got terrorists and other pharmaceutical companies standing in line. Ball's in your court, Mr. McCloy.
Not much luggage.
I left in a bit of a hurry. I'm terribly grateful, Sean.
How grateful?
Well that depends.
On what.
How hard you had to work to get me out of there..how in the world did you ever find me?
How I usually find you, Nyah.
How do you that.
Magic...
Ahh..
Your room.
Mmmm.
And my room?
You're not interested in seeing how it looks.
Oh, I am. Later..
I said you're beautiful, Nyah.
Only because..it's spring..chalk it up  to spring fever.
Won't do, love. It's not spring. It's nearly autumn..You're in Oz. everything's upside down and backwards here.
Maybe that's it, then. Everything's upside down and backwards...
You won.
I suppose I did.
What made you pick <i>that</i> nag? She'd never won a bloody thing.
'Thief in the Night?'
Say no more. I'm off to grab a drink. Still favor Bellinis?
See anything you like?
Yeah. Naturally vain  but they're about to close the betting table and I haven't a sou..
To win?
What else?
You picked another winner!
Well, that's good, isn't?
Sean, there's something I've been meaning to talk to you about... Isn't going to be easy for me to say.
Then don't say it.
I don't know what to do about you, Sean. I'm more than a bit muddled. I need time.
To do what?
Sort it all out.
And you're going to have time. There's been a change of plans.
A change of plans?
Yes. We won't be able to have dinner tonight. Something's come up. I hope you don't mind.
Oh, no, not at all. Maybe just a bit.
Ulrich will be about. He'll look after you.
Lovely.
Feel like pleading for your life?
Not as much as you feel like hearing it.
God damn it, Nyah! Why did you do it? Why did you save that bastard?
If it'll make you feel any better I won't do it again.
If it'll make you feel any better, you're going to take a lot of Aussies with you and make me a lot of money.
What are you talking about?
In just a few hours you can be assured of going down in history as the typhoid Mary of Oz. G'day.
 pull the NO2 tank and dump it, it's potential evidence..
All done, chief..
 right   don't go too far ahead of me now 
Not possible..
Not everything. Why do you think she's really here?
From her point of view or mine?
Wasn't exactly gagging for it when she left you six months ago..The question is, do you trust her?
One considers her timing, of course  getting nicked within a week of the plane going down. Suggestive, even borderline suspicious, but hardly conclusive.
Well, you've thorough about it, at any rate.
You're not scrutinizing any casual shrug for some hairsplitting nuance, are you?
Sean, please..
I thought you were going to dinner.
Hugh, take care of the Nekhorvich memory card.
Where is it?
In the envelope in my pocket. My right.. jacket..pocket..
Afraid he's got no choice. I believe I broke his jaw.
Hugh, I'm impressed..
An old friend. I was rummaging through a closet and it was just sitting there. Like it was waiting for me.
It's... it's nice, Paul. It's got... character.
When I wrote my first book, I used to carry it around in this while I was looking for a publisher. That was a good book, Marcia. I was a writer then.
You're still a writer.
I haven't been a writer since I got into the Misery business
Not a bad business. This thing would still be growing, too. The first printing order on Misery's Child was the most everover a million.
Marcia, please.
No, no. Misery Chastain put braces on your daughter's teeth and is putting her through college, bought you two houses and floor seats to the Knick games and what thanks does she get? You go and kill her.
Marcia, you know I started "Misery" on a lark. Do I look like a guy who writes romance novels? Do I sound like Danielle Steel? It was a one time shot and we got lucky. I never meant it to become my life. And if I hadn't gotten rid of her now, I'd have ended up writing her forever. For the first time in fifteen years, I think I'm really onto something here.
I'm glad to hear that, Paul, I really am. But you have to knowwhen your fans find out that you killed off their favorite heroine, they're not going to say, "Ooh, good, Paul Sheldon can finally write what we've always wanted: An esoteric, semi autobiographical character study.
Marcia, why are you doing this to me? Don't you know I'm scared enough? Don't you think I remember how nobody gave a shit about my first books? You think I'm dying to go back to shouting in the wilderness? I'm doing this because I have to. Now, I'm leaving for Colorado to try to finish this and I want your good thoughtsbecause if I can make it work ... I might just have something that I want on my tombstone.
Sorry I'm late. Jenny's basketball game went into overtime. If anybody ever told me I'd have a daughter who'd get a triple double, I'd...
Did they win?
Yeah. They're in the semis.
Here it is. Very first copy.
The word I'm getting is the Times review is gonna be a love letter.
That'd be a first.
And my contacts at Time and Newsweek tell me they're both raves. And don't laughfor the first time, I think you've got a shot at some prizes.
Great.
I thought you'd be thrilled. You're being taken seriously.
I'm delighted the critics are liking it, and I hope the people like it, too. But it's not why I wrote the book.
I like it. Remember how you once said I live my whole life as if I'm in danger of being found out? Well, I believe I've managed to get that guy down on paper. Don't think I'm completely nuts, but in some way, Annie Wilkes, that whole experience, helped me.
Paul, since you brought her up, I have to ask you this, or I'd be drummed out of the agents' union what about a nonfiction book? The truth about what went on in that house.
Gee, Marcia, if I didn't know you better, I'd think you were suggesting I dredge up the worst horror of my life just so we could make a few bucks.
Now you've hurt me, Paul.
I thought you were over it.
I am. Well, maybe not completely
Hey, Pete.
Buster.
Answer me a couple things?
If I can.
Do you have any of those new Paul Sheldon books?
We had a batch. Sold 'em all in three days.
You wouldn't happen to remember if Miz Wilkes bought one, would you?
Are you kidding? Every time that fella writes a book, she makes me set aside the first copy.
Has she been buying any odd things lately?
Miz Wilkes? Same old stuff. Lest you call paper odd.
Newspapers?
No, the typing kind.
Oh. That kind. Nothing odd about that.
Nothing unusual about Mr. Sheldon's leaving, Busteryou can tell by the champagne.
Maybe you can, Libby.
No, see, he always ordered a bottle of Dom Perignon when he was ready to go. Then he'd pay up and be out the door.
No longdistance phone calls, Federal Express packagesanything at all out of the ordinary?
I don't think Mr. Sheldon likes for things to be out of the ordinary. Considering who he is and all, famous and all, he doesn't have airs. Drives the same car out from New York each time'65 Mustangsaid it helps him think. He was always a good guest, never made a noise, never bothered a soul. Sure hope nothing happened to him.
So do I...
I'll bet that old Mustang's pulling into New York right now.
I'm sure you're right.
I'm a literary agent, and I feel like a fool calling you, but I think one of my clients, Paul Sheldon, might be in some kind of trouble.
Paul Sheldon? You mean Paul Sheldon the writer?
Yes.
He's your client, huh?
Yes, he is.
People sure like those Misery books.
I'm sure you know Paul's been going to the Silver Creek Lodge for years to finish his books.
Yeah, I understand he's been up here the last six weeks.
Not quite. I just called, and they said he checked out five days ago. Isn't that a little strange?
I don't know. Does he always phone you when he checks out of hotels?
No, no, of course not. It's just that his daughter hasn't heard from him, and when he's got a book coming out, he usually keeps in touch. So when there was no word from him...
You think he might be missing?
I hate that I made this calltell me I'm being silly.
I appreciate that. Thanks a lot.
G'bye, Ms. Sindell.
We actually got a phone call. Busy morning.
Work, work, work. Virginia? When was that blizzard?
Four or five days ago. Why?
Virginia, when you're in this car, you're not my wife, you're my deputy.
Well, this deputy would rather be home under the covers with the Sheriff.
Stopstop right here.
What? What is it?
Could be the weight of the snow.
Could beor a rotten branch or a mountain lion could have landed on it. Could be a lot of things.
You really think Sheldon's out there?
Hope notif he is, he's dead. Let's go to the newspaper office.
Here's the list of all Sheldon's credit charges. Nothing after the Silver Creek. Any calls?
Just from his agent.
You don't think he's dead, do you?
He might well be. But not the way they say. He didn't crawl out of that car by himself. You saw those dents on the doorsomeone pulled him out.
It was an old carthose dents could have been there forever.
There's two kinds of people that drive around in old cars: the ones that can't afford new ones, and the ones who wouldn't give 'em up for anything in the world. That second bunch don't drive around with twenty fiveyearold dents.
Hey, Jim, what's doing? Uhhuh... uh huh... Jim, we've been over this. If you're gonna have benches in front of your store, people are gonna sit on them. I don't like him either, but I'm not going to come over there and tell him to move. Give my best to Denise. Bye.
Well, whoever she is, she sure likes to read a lot.
Virginia, I'm flattered you think I got that much energy. I just figured if I can't find Paul Sheldon, at least I can find out what he wrote about.
What do you expect to find? A story about a guy who drove his car off a cliff in a snowstorm?
Now, you see, it's that kind of sarcasm that's given our marriage real spice.
"There is a justice higher than that of man. I will be judged by Him."
What?
They're hauling Misery into court.
That's nice.
"There is a justice higher than that of manI will be judged by Him."
Just leave it, all right?
Oh, I like that tone.
How many times do I have to tell you I have a system here. Where the hell is that thing?
What thing?
That thing. Here it is. Right where it's supposed to be.
What is it?
I'm not sure. Maybe nothing.
It's good you found it.
There's that spice again.
Shhh... we're just outside Silver Creek.
How long...?
You've been here two days. You're gonna be okay. My name is Annie Wilkes and I'm
my number one fan.
Here.
What are they...?
They're called Novrilthey're for your pain.
Shouldn't I be in a hospital?
The blizzard was too strong. I couldn't risk trying to get you there. I tried calling, but the phone lines are down.
Your legs just sing grand opera when you move, don't they? It's not going to hurt forever, Paul, I promise you.
Will I be able to walk?
Of course you will. And your arm will be fine, too. Your shoulder was dislocated pretty badly, but I finally popped it back in there. But what I'm most proud of is the work I did on those legs. Considering what I had around the house, I don't think there's a doctor who could have done any better.
No, it wasn't a miracle at all... in a way, I was following you.
Following me?
Well, it wasn't any secret to me that you were staying at the Silver Creek, seeing as how I'm your number one fan and all. Some nights I'd just tool on down there, sit outside and look up at the light in your cabin and I'd try to imagine what was going on in the room of the world's greatest writer.
Say that last part again, I didn't quite hear
Don't move nowwouldn't want to hurt this neck Well, the other afternoon I was on my way home, and there you were, leaving the Lodge, and I wondered why a literary genius would go for a drive when there was a big storm coming.
I didn't know it was going to be a big storm.
Lucky for you, I did. Lucky for me too. Because now you're alive and you can write more books. Oh, Paul, I've read everything of Yours, but the Misery novels...
You're very kind...
And you're very brilliant, and you must be a good man, or you could never have created such a wondrous, loving creature as Misery Chastain. Like a baby. All done.
When do you think the phone lines'll be back up? I have to call my daughter, and I should call New York and let my agent know I'm breathing.
It shouldn't be too much longer. Once the roads are open, the lines'll be up in no time. If you give me their numbers, I'll keep trying them for you. Could I ask you a favor? I noticed in your case there was a new Paul Sheldon book and... and I wondered if maybe...
You want to read it?
If you wouldn't mind.
I have a hard and fast rule about who can read my stuff at this early stageonly my editor, my agent, and anyone who saves me from freezing to death in a car wreck.
You'll never realize what a rare treat you've given me.
What's your new book called?
I don't have a title yet.
What's it about?
It's crazy, but I don't really know, I mean I haven't written anything but "Misery" for so long thatyou read it you can tell me what you think it's about. Maybe you can come up with a title.
Oh, like I could do that?
But what?
Nothing.
No, what is it?
Oh, it's ridiculous, who am I to make a criticism to someone like you?
I can take it, go ahead.
Well, it's brilliantly written, but then everything you write is brilliant.
Pretty rough so far.
The swearing, Paul. There, I said it.
The profanity bothers you?
It has no nobility.
Well, these are slum kids, I was a slum kid, everybody talks like that.
Oh, I'm sorry. I didn't mean to wake you.
It's fine.
They had it at the store, Paul, there was a whole batch of them there. As soon as I saw it, I slammed my money down. I got the first copy.
Then the roads are open...
The one to town is, but that's about it. I called the hospital and talked to the head orthopedic surgeon. I told him who you were and what had happened. He said as long as there's no infection, you're not in any danger, and as soon as the road to the hospital is open, they'll send an ambulance for you.
The phones are working?
Well, mine's still out. But the ones in town were working just fine. I called that agent of yours. Oh, Paul, I peeked at the very beginning. What a wonderful first pagejust to read the name Misery Chastain...
My daughter must be going nuts.
...it's like a visit from my oldest, dearest friend.
I was supposed to be home for her birthday three days ago.
Your agent said she would tell her you were okay. But I'm afraid you'll have to wait until tomorrow if you want to speak to her yourself.
I made you my specialityscrambled eggs a la Wilkes. And I'm on page 75.
I guess that means it's okay.
No. No, it isn't, it's oh pooh, I can't think of any words. Would "great" be insulting?
I can live with "great."
I don't mean to pry, but I've read in two magazines now where you were seeing this model who does those disgusting jeans commercials. And I said it can't be true. Paul Sheldon would never waste his time with a trampy woman like that.
Well, you can't believe everything you read in magazines.
I knew it. I knew it wasn't true. Boy, how do they get away with printing stuff like that?
You'd be amazed at what some people will believe.
Thank you so much.
My pleasure.
I thought it was time you two should meet. Paul, say hello to my favorite beast in all the world, my sow, Misery.
Misery?
Yes. I told you I was your number one fan.
I'm getting to believe you.
This farm was getting kind of dreary, what with just the few cows and chickens and me But when I got Misery here, everything Changedshe just makes me smile so.
She's a fine... uh... pig is what she is...
I'm on page threehundred now, Paul, and it's better than perfectit's divine. What's the ceiling that dago painted?
The Sistine Chapel?
Yeah, that and Misery's Childthose are the only two divine things ever in this world...
For a while I thought I might go crazy.
I know how that can be.
I don't know about you, but what I did to get through it was I dove into workdays, nightsnight shifts can be lonely at a hospital. I did a lot of reading. That was hen I first discovered Misery. She made me so happy. She made me forget all my problems. 'Course, I suppose you had a little something to do with that too.
I just kept reading them over and over. I know when I finish this one and I've only got two chapters to go I'll just turn right to the front page and start reading it again.
I'm...
Done?
Yeah, thanks.
No problem.
Don't get me wrong. I'm not against marriage per se. But it would take a pretty special guy to make me want to go down the aisle again.
Well, it's not something you should enter into lightly.
It boils down to respect. People just don't respect the institution of marriage any more. They have no sense of real commitment.
I'd love to stay here and chat, but I'm right at the end and I gotta find out what happens.
Well, I hope you like it.
Of course I'll like it. Misery's about to have her child. What's it gonna be, a boy or a girl? Ooh, don't tell me.
You...you dirty bird. She can't be dead. Misery Chastain cannot be dead! How could you?
Annie, in 1871, women often died in childbirth, but her spirit is the important thing, and Misery's spirit is still alive
I DON'T WANT HER SPIRIT! I want HER! And you MURDERED her!
I DIDN'T...
Then who did?
No oneshe just diedshe slipped away, that's all.
She slipped away? She slipped away? She didn't just slip away. You did it. You did it. You did it. You did it. You murdered my Misery.
What are you doing on the floor? It's my fault. If I'd had a proper hospital bed, this never would have happened. Here, let me help you back in. I know this hurts, but it'll only take a few seconds. There you go. Comfy?
Perfect.
You're such a kidder. I have a big surprise for you. But first there's something you must do.
I don't suppose I could have a little snack while I wait for the surprise?
I'll get you everything you want, but you must listen first. Sometimes my thinking is a little muddy, I accept that. It's why I couldn't remember all those things they were asking me on the witness stand in Denver.
But this time I thought clearly. I asked God about you and God said "I delivered him unto you so that you may show him the way."
Show me the way?
Yes.
You want me to burn my book?
Yes.
You want me to burn my book?
I know this may be difficult for you, but it's for the best.
This isn't difficult, my agent's made dozens of copies. There's gonna be an auction on this, and every publishing house in New York is reading it now. So if you want me to burn it, fine. You're not ridding the world of anything.
Then light the match, Paul.
No big deal.
So you've indicated. Do it.
I know this is the only copy, Paul. When you were twentyfour you wrote your first book and you didn't make a copy, because you didn't think anybody would take it seriously. But they did. And ever since you've never made any copies because you're superstitiousit's why you always come back to the Silver Creek Lodge. You told that story to Merv Griffin eleven years ago.
You know, Annie, this book never would have survived without you. When it gets to new York, there will be a big auction, and whatever it brings we can split. God knows you're entitled to it.
Oh, Paul. This isn't about money. It's about decency and purity. It's about God's values.
You're right. You're right. I don't know what I was thinking. I'll tell you what. It doesn't have to be published. Nobody ever has to see it. I'll just keep it for myself. No one will ever have to know it exists.
As long as it does exist, your mind won't ever be free. I think you should light the match, Paul.
I do believe the winters are getting shorter and shorter every year. People say it has something to do with the ozone layer. What do you think?
I don't know.
Yeah, well, it's a theory. Here's your Novril. How does tuna casserole sound for dinner?
Great.
See, isn't this nice?
Great. I've always wanted to visit the other side of the room.
And look what I've got for you. An electric razor so you can shave yourself now.
If I knew this was gonna be the surprise, you could've gotten me to burn all my books.
Now don't josh. This is a very big day for you, Paul. Here. You just sit tight, and I'll set everything up.
Set what up?
That's the big surprise. Your new studioafter all, writers do need a place to work.
Work? You mean write? What in the world do you think I'd write?
Oh, but Paul! I don't think, I know! Now that you've gotten rid of that nasty manuscript, you can go back to doing what you're great at you're going to write a new novel your greatest achievement ever Misery's Return.
Misery's Return?
I know you didn't mean it when you killed her, and now you'll make it right.
Yes. It will be a book in my honor. For saving your life and nursing you back to health. I'll be the first one to read it. Oh, Paul, you're going to make me the envy of the whole world...
You just expect me to whip something off, that it?
I expect nothing less than your masterpiece.
You do understand that this isn't the ordinary way books get written I mean, some people might actually consider this an oddball situation.
I guess you don't get bothered by neighbors much.
Don't worry about that. You'll have total solitude so you can concentrate on your work.
Great.
And I got a great deal on this fifty pound clunkeron account of it's missing an "n." I told the saleslady "n" was one of the letters in my favorite writer's name.
It's two of the letters in my favorite nurse's name, Annie.
Youfooler...! Did I do good?
You did great, except there's just one little thingI can't work with this paper. It's Corrasable Bond, it smudges. Maybe you could go back into town and bring me some white, longgrained mimeo.
But mine cost the most so I don't see how it could smudge.
C'mere, I'll show you.
Well, it does smudge after allisn't that fascinating?
I thought you'd be interested. I'd like you to be in on everything, Annie. Not just the finished book, but how it's written.
Thank you for thinking of me. Anything else I can get while I'm in town? Any other crucial requirements that need satisfying? Would you like a tiny tape recorder? Or maybe a handmade set of writing slippers?
No, just the paper will be fine.
Are you sure? 'Cause if you want, I'll bring back the whole store for you.
Annie, what's the matter?
What's the matter? I'll tell you what's the matter. I go out of my way for you. I do everything to try and make you happy. I feed you, I clean you, I dress you. And what thanks do I get? "You bought the wrong paper, Annie. I can't write on this paper, Annie." Well, I'll get your stupid paper, but you just better start showing me a little more appreciation around here, Mister Man.
Paul, you're dripping with perspiration, your color is very hecticwhat have you been doing?
You know goddamn well what I've been doingI'VE BEEN SITTING HERE SUFFERING. I need my pills.
Poor dear... Let's get you back in bed and I'll get them for you.
I want my pills NOW!
It'll only take a second.
I want my pain to go 'way, Annie make it go 'way, please Annie please...
Here, in case you think of any ideas.
Yeah, well I wouldn't expect too much.
Don't be silly. You'll be brilliant. Think of me as your inspiration.
I'm sorry, Paul. This is all wrong, you'll have to do it over again.
What? What happened to "I'll treasure whatever you do?"
Paul, it's not worthy of you. Throw it all out except for the part of naming that gravedigger after me. You can leave that in.
I really value your criticism, but maybe you're being a little hasty here.
Paul, what you've written just isn't fair.
not fair?
That's rightwhen I was growing up in Bakersfield, my favorite thing in all the world was to go to the movies on Saturday afternoons for the chapter plays...
cliffhangers
I know that, Mister Manthey also call them serials. I'm not stupid, you know. Anyway, my favorite was Rocket Man, and once it was a nobrakes chapter, the bad guys stuck him in a car on a mountain road and knocked him out and welded the doors shut and tore out the brakes and started him to his death and he woke up and tried to steer and tried to get out, but the car went off a cliff before he could escape and it crashed and burned andI was so upset and excited and the next week you better believe I was first in line and they always start with the end of the last week and there was Rocket Man trying to get out, and here came the cliff and JUST BEFORE the car went off he jumped free and all the kids cheered but I didn't cheer, I stood right up and started shouting, "This isn't what happened last weekhave you all got amnesia?THEY JUST CHEATED USTHIS WASN'T FAIR"
"HE DIDN'T GET OUT OF THE COCKADOODIE CAR!"
They always cheated like that in cliff chapter plays.
But not you. Not with my Misery. Remember, Ian did ride for Dr. Cleary at the end of the last book, but his horse fell jumping that fence and Ian broke his shoulder and his ribs and lay there all night in the ditch so he never reached the doctor, so there couldn't have been any "experimental blood transfusion" that saved her life. Misery was buried in the ground at the end, Paul, so you'll have to start there.
What's the matter, Paul? You haven't written a word.
I can't write this anymore.
Don't be silly. Of course you can.
I'm telling you, I can't.
You canyou have the "gotta"
The what?
The "gotta." Remember, you talked about it in Playboy magazine. You said there's a million things you can't do in this world; you can't hit a curve ball, you can't fix a leaky faucet or make a marriage work but there's one thing you always have, and that's the power of the "gotta."
I said that?
You said you can make it so they gotta turn the page. You know, "I 'gotta' know will she live," "I 'gotta' know will he catch the killer." "I gotta see how this chapter ends." You said it. I don't usually buy that magazine. I only got it, 'cause they were interviewing you.
What about a bee...?
What?
Nothing.
Well, is it fair? Should I keep going?
You better. Oh, Paul, when Ian realized that the reason they'd buried Misery alive was because the bee sting had put her in that temporary coma
I've known from the very first book that Misery had to be born of nobility and I was right!
Yeah, yeah...
Oh, Paul, can I read each chapter when you finish? I can fill in the "n"s. Will she be her old self, now that Ian has dug her out, or will she have amnesia...?
...have to wait.
Will she still love him with that special perfect love?
Have to wait.
Not even a hint?
Misery's alive! Misery's alive. Oh, it's so romanticthis whole house is going to be filled with romance. I'm going to put on my Liberace records you do like Liberace, don't you?
Whenever he played Radio City, who do you think was right there in the front row?
I'm going to play my records all day
To celebrate Misery's return. I couldn't have done it without you.
Oh, Paul. It would be an honor.
I hope you like it.
It looks wonderful. And so do you.
Oh...
I've never had meatloaf this good, what do you do to it?
My secret is I only use fresh tomatoes, never canned. And to give it that little extra zip, I mix in some Spam with the ground beef.
Oh. You can't get this in a restaurant in New York.
Annie, I think we should have a toast.
A toast?
Yes, to Misery. Let me pour you some more wine.
To Misery.
Wait, let's do this right. Do you have any candles?
Oh, I don't know. I think so. I'll go look.
Did you study decorating, or do you just have a flair?
Oh, you. I just picked things up over the years.
Well, it certainly says you.
You really think so?
Absolutely. Listen, if you can't find any, it's okay. I just thought it might be nice.
Are you kidding? If anyone ever told me that one day I'd be having a candlelit dinner with Paul Sheldon in my own house, I woulda checked both legs to see which one was being pulled. Will this do?
It's perfect.
Oh, God, what have I done? I'm so sorry, Paul. I ruined your beautiful toast. Will you ever forgive me? Here, let me pour another one. Can we pretend this never happened? To Misery?
To Misery.
Paul, this is positively the best Misery you've ever written.
I think you're right.
Annie, what is it?
The rain... sometimes it gives me the blues.
When you first came here, I only loved the writer part of Paul Sheldon. But now I know I love the rest of him too. As much as Misery loves Ian. I know you don't love medon't say you doyou're a beautiful, brilliant, famous man of the world; and I'm...not a movie star type. You'll never know the fear of losing someone like you if you're someone like me.
Why would you lose me?
The book is almost finished. Your legs are getting better. Soon you'll be able to walk. You'll be wanting to leave.
Why would I want to leave? I like it here.
That's very kind of you, but I'll bet it's not altogether true.
It is.
Paul, I know you've been out.
What?
You've been out of your room.
No, I haven't.
Paul, my little ceramic penguin in the study always faces due south.
I don't know what you're talking about.
Now don't fuss, Paul.
Why would I run away? I'm a writer, Annieit's all I amand I've never written this welleven you said that this is my best, didn't you?
Paul, don't you think it's time for you to start writing again? It's been over a week.
I don't know, it's weird, but a couple of broken bones hasn't done a lot for my creative juices. Get the fuck out of here.
Don't talk to me like that.
Why, what are you going to do? Kill me? Take your best shot.
Why are you so mean, Mister you'dbe deadinthesnowifitwasn'tfor me?
Oh, no reason, you keep me prisoner, you make me burn my book, you drive a sledgehammer into my ankles...
I'll drive a sledgehammer into your mangland if you're not nicer
Be my guest.
That's disgusting.
I know you do. I love you too, Annie. And you're right. We are meant to be together. And I know we must die. But it must be so that Misery can live. We have the power to give Misery eternal life. We must finish the book.
But the time is now. Soon others will come.
It's almost done. By dawn we'll be able to give Misery back to the world.
Oh, Paul. It's beautiful.
Three more chapters to go.
The stranger staying at the Inn, is he someone from Misery's past?
Maybe.
This is so exciting. It's Windthorne, her first love, right?
Maybe. Are you ready for the next chapter?
It WAS Windthorne. I knew itwhat does that do to her love for Ian? of course, if she hadn't thought Windthorne was murdered she never would have fallen in love with Ian in the first place. Sorry, it's just that this is so wonderful.
I'm glad you like it.
Paul, this will be our legacy.
It will.
Oh, Paul. I'm dying. Does she wind up with Ian or Windthorne? You have to tell me.
You'll know very soon. I'm starting the last chapter. And when I finish, I want everything to be perfect. I'll require three things.
What things?
You don't know?
I was fooling, silly. You need a cigarette, because you used to smoke but you quit except when you finish a book, and you just have one, and the match is to light it. And you need one glass of champagne. Dome Peariggnon.
Dome Peariggnon it is.
Yes, Paul.
I'm almost done.
Oh, Paul, this is so romantic. Ian and Windthorne dueling for the right to Misery's hand. Does Ian win? Oh, don't me. It's Windthorne, right?
You'll know everything in a minute. Get the champagne.
Ahh!!!
Did I do good?
You did perfect. Except for one thing. This time we need two glasses.
Oh, my!
Sorry, didn't mean to startle you. You didn't give me a chance to knock.
Guess you can tell from my reaction, I'm not all that used to visitors out here. What can I do for you?
I was just wondering if you happen to know anything about Paul Sheldon.
What do you want to know?
Anything you can tell me might help.
Excuse me, that's not exactly the kind of information I was after. You see, he's been missing for quite some time now, and...
I know. It's so upsetting. I'm his numberone fan...I've got all his books, every sentence he ever put down. I'm so proud of my Paul Sheldon collection... ...here I am, prattling on and my manners have just flown away. I haven't invited you in. Please.
Thank you.
God told me, since I was his number one fan, that I should make up new stories as if I was Paul Sheldon. So, went to town. And I bought a typewriter. And paper to type on. The same kind Paul Sheldon used. And I turned the guest bedroom into a writing studio. Would you like to see it?
Sure.
It's right this way.
Well... ...maybe it takes time to get the hang of it.
I could give you a couple of hundred pages of mine, and you could tell me what you think.
I'm not much of a critic.
Well, I just thoughtoh, look at me. You'd think I'd never had a house guest before. Would you like something to drink?
Sure.
How does a nice cup of cocoa sound?
Sounds good.
Must get lonely, living out here all by yourself.
I always say if you can't enjoy your own company, you're not fit company for anyone else.
You got a point there...
Thanks, Miz Wilkes, but I don't want to take up any more of your time. I best be going.
But you didn't even taste your cocoa.
If you don't mind, perhaps I could pay you another visit sometime.
I'd be delighted. Now that you know the way...
Siri, sandblast that thing. It looks like Trump Tower. Those mounds are supposed to be made of dirt and excretions...
Just like Trump Tower, then.
...as long as they're ready for the opening I don't care, just tell them that.
I'm on it. Don't worry. Look, Susan...I don't mean to pry, but... I kinda overheard you and Peter.
Watch your step, Siri. Your grant could be on the line here.
I just...well, I had this cousin in Delhi. She was having problems, too. She, ah...
What?
She used a baster.
Not a big one. I mean, it was like a turkey baster.
Oh, Jesus.
What's this?
Oh, right... They been here since noon. I told them you're real busy.
I'm gonna pull it out and I want you to pin it down, okay?
What is it?
I have no idea. Are you ready?
It bit you.
No shit.
This wing configuration. I've never...
Fuck! It broke the skin...
And they're not fully developed. This thing's not even an adult.
My God.
What?
That's impossible. Insects don't...
I know. Help me get a sample.
Hello.
You the bug lady, right?
You guys have done a nice job. How bout five dollars?
That's it?
You sure you didn't see one of these?
Gross. What is it?
An "Ootheca". An eggcase. It probably had more, uh "weirdbugs" inside.
No way. I see one of those, I'd puke.
A shame. You looked great tonight.
Please.
You did!
Do you think we did the right thing?
Taking a cab instead of hiring a limo?
You know what I mean...
We did no impact evaluation. The consequences of...
Is this a Catholic guilt thing...?
Who know? We get lucky, maybe a couple of 'em'll be ours.
We're down to a "couple" now, huh?
You know where they get this fertility stuff? They extract it from the urine of menopausal Italian nuns.
Monks bottle their own wine. Don't they?
You were the one who ran around with ice in his underwear, don't forget that.
Don't get kinky here...
Okay, meet me out front. I gotta go. Josh's picking me up in five. see you tonight.
I'll be late.
Thought it was my week for that.
I needed to think. It was either this or the weather channel.
This thing was the size of my fist, Peter!! That's off the charts!
Okay. So you lost a great specimen
Don't you get it? It's more than that.
Evolution doesn't work that fast. Something pushed that thing to take the leap. We need to find another specimen.
We?
Keep going. We'll tell you when to stop...
Maybe they lied to you.
Even if they did... that's all we have, isn't it?
Metaxonycha Godmani.
So?
Honey, just leave it.
No, there's...
You give someone a fucking uniform and... Did you hear how he talked to us?
I heard how you talked to him.
Oh, so I'm the bad guy now?
He was just doing his job.
Fine, then I'm the bad guy. Jesus!
Great crowd.
No such thing, baby.
I get the feeling they came more for the potroast than the apterids.
Fuck 'em. They don't know what they're missing.
Right.
Oh, no, you were
I was just late.
Ironic, don't you think? These guys can hatch hundreds of offspring in a single clutch of eggs, right? And here we are...
Susan, we're not b
...you don't even know what you're looking for.
You said that thing was big as your hand. I don't think I'm going to miss...
Why take the chance? Just let me go down there with you...
No.
Susan, listen to me: you handled that insect almost as much as Siri...
It didn't bite me.
I know. But if it was carrying something...there's a chance you could have been exposed.
It's me. Can you hear me?
Yeah, barely. We haven't found anything down here. Nothing...
Don't.
Listen to me: we're getting you out.
No, Jesus, no.
Toss the flare down!
So, you're saying this is like those bugs that  that look like twigs or leaves or...
That's camouflage...
His blood! It's driving them crazy! We have to mask the odor!
How?!
It's no use! They know we're in here!
They don't know anything Peter, they just sense. They're hardwired!
Right. Hardwired to eat anything that's not like them!
Rub it on the windows!
What
Just do it!!
We'll cover ourselves with this. They can mimic us we Goddam mimic them!
Peter
It worked before...
The scent won't last...
That's why we should do it now.
Don't touch it. And for Godsakes, try not to sweat. They can sense chemical changes...
Try not to sweat?
I was just thinking how I could use a pair of pliers... and I remembered where they are...
That's it. That's it. Breathe easy.
Oh, come on, come on!
Jump in.
You go first. I'll be right below you.
Your arm, you can't...
I can. We can do this...
C'mon...
Ah...
Talk to me.
Peter...
No...
We can do it!
Just inner chambers...
But it look like a man. It... I saw it.
No...
Mantids can mimic. We gave the Judas that code...
"...and behold he will come that walks as a man, yet is not a man ..."
This, is our baby Peter. Yours and mine. Aren't you proud?
He's out there. I heard him. How can he be? This things...
Manny...
I didn't protect him, lady. He trusted me. And I didn't protect him... His father...I lost his father to the streets and now, Chuy...
We'll find him. We'll be back and find him.
What are you putting that crap on me for?
Scent glands. Insects use 'em to identify themselves to each other.
But the power...
Hell, I might be able to juice the whole area, if I can get to the power box. It's just a couple of cables...
It would take a minute or so. You won't last that long out there.
Peter, you couldn't even fix our TV!
He didn't do it!
What?
Manny never threw the coupling switch!! We're goin' the wrong way!!!
Which way?
Across both tracks!!
We're no leaving you!
No way we can outrun 'em together. Move it!
He's special.
He can imitate anything, you just watch him.
My God, what the hell are you...?
Hurry, the woman needs help!
What are you doing down here?
Chuy. He was taken. He's down here somewhere... Oh, please, hurry. I saw what was after her.
You better tell me what the hell's going on here!
Hey, hey!! Take it easy!!
The lights come up, you pull the switch.
I pull.
You don't do that, we're on the wrong track. You...
What's Manny doing? I can't see him anymore.
Nino, please...
Look, I showed you my badge...
Yeah, and you gonna have to show me a lot bigger one you wanna go down there. That's the old maintenance grid, Doc. Swiss cheese: tunnels, tracks...
The Department of Public Health...
...should know better'n to go sneakin' around my turf...
Fine. You want me to call your supervisor?
Please do. He's a lonely guy.
Excuse me, I'm talking to you.
No, you talkin' at me.
For Chrissakes. You gonna lay a two bit bureaucratic, territorial number on me?
You wanna keep up the conversation, you best come back with the proper permits and the right attitude.
We'll be back at the platform in...
20 minutes. If you don't go sightseeing anymore.
20 minutes. Susan?
Did you see the size of that thing?!
Look what you did! You stupid sonofa
Oh, that's gonna work.
You got a better way up?
Any luck?
Well...there's an old service elevator half a mile down the tracks. Ain't gonna be much use, though. Lines are dead.
You said those cables're still live. Can't we rewire...?
Oh, man, there you go again.
What?
Those things bring juice to the new stations. You just can't rewire that shit...
For Chrissakes, what's the problem? You need a memo every time you fart?
All right, motherfucker, that's it.
I only got...
Just do it!
Wait a minute
Fuck you, wait a minute. I'm going to
Its muscles are locked.
Oh, Jesus!!
You feel anything?
Yeah, I feel like ripping your fucking eyes out...
Leonard, listen. I need to see if there's any nerve damage before we carry you back. Look, I'm trying to help you here...
Oh, you helped me here, all right, white boy. You and your goddam memo. You needed to prove your point, uh?
I'm sorry. But I don't think letting you bleed to death is the best apology.
A mistake.
"Mistake"? What's that supposed to...?
It doesn't matter, all right? It's dead.
How you know that? Shit, it was runnin' around with its buttside gone and a fucking pipe through its heart...
Is there a switch?
Third rail is dead. Get me up. There must be a manual override in the booth.
Can we get this car there?
Someone'd have to go to the switchroom, pull the coupling lever, that'll send us left and to the elevator.
You gonna finally get to fuck around with the wires. Think you can handle it?
Depends. You got a memo?
The kid...
The kid's with them!!
What do you?
Go!! Just go!!
You all watch your step. We got some burrows goin' down seven stories here. You fall, I don't wanna have to come pick you up.
New York's finest.
There's really people living down here?
Mole people. This section was pretty popular, all the way to Fulton Street...
Funny. Shoulda seen some track bunnies by now.
What?
Track bunnies. Rats. They're usually around.
Show that to the station manager. Tell him Leonard's gonna have his bubblebutt he don't have someone down here in ten.
Hhow do I get...?
Way we came. Take the first tunnel to your right...
Go left. Go left again till you hit the fork... Then right again. You got that?
I think so. One right, two lefts...
And a right.
Right.
The blintzes! "Try the blintzes..."
Selling your sould for a fistful of carbohydrates...
Not just any carbohydrates, mind you. It was like being on the receiving end of some kind of transcendent oral sex. We should get a strobe on this thing. Maybe even a siren.
Yeah, and a loudspeaker so you can yell "Epidemic! Epidemic! You're all going to die!"
You really love flashing that thing, don't you?
Hey. I'm a short guy. Waddaya want?
Internal hemorrage. 2 our of 5 have it. No definite signs of TB, but we'll quarantine them a week just to make sure.
Immigration's gonna love you for that.
Tell them to send flowers to the usual address.
Did they get the sleazebag who owns this place?
Triad, Chinese Mafia. They bring people from Yunan. Slave labor... Reverend Harry Wong, a preacher had the flophouse fronting for them. No sign of him.
There are thirty five listed in the reverend Wong's roster...
Shit.
Peter...
Yeah...?
There's some weird shit here.
Weird shit...?
Take a look.
Hey, you can't...
What's your name?
Jeremy...
Okay, Jeremy...go get Dr. Chris Raymond, will you?
Lady...
Did you hear me? Get Dr. Raymond! NOW!!
Lawyers?
Yeah... there's no straight lawyers in Turkey... They're all bent bent as hairpins...
His name?
Who?
The lawyer?
What lawyer?
Who got the Frenchman out?
Oh Yesil... Yesil's his name but I...don't know anything... 'bout...Yesil...
Vilyum, I am Necdit Yesil.
Mr. Yesil.
I know exactly what you feel but you must not worry, we are acting immediately, we get the right court, the right judge, I arrange everything  just right. And I think we get you bail. If very bad, maybe twenty month sentence... But I think we get you bail...
You know I have lectured at the University of Maryland in your country? Also University Michigan Very nice country. We both go back.
If I get bail, Mister Yesil, they say it's easy to cross the border into Greece?
What'd the Prosecutor say?
It's not important, just technical things. We make our case. You were very good, you spoke well. The Judge like you. It look good. Don't worry.
Did you ask for bail?
What is it with you man, what the hell is it?
Cat, ah! Ayip!
You're ayip!
Look, you don't fuck with me, I don't fuck with you, right?
But you fuck with me. You fuck with me all the time. You make crummy tea. You rip us off on the hash.
I make special tea for you, Hiyes, okay? We've to live like brothers. We have to be in here together.
Oh shove it, Ziat for all the money you have, you have nothing!
Know what?
Was.. ...seven years old. I was on street in Suk. Buy. Sell. No family to take care. I learn.
Learn what?
Dog eat dog, Hiyes. You fuck other man before he fuck you. And you must fuck last.
That's a great philosophy.
You 'Merican. You don't know.
Hey, Ziat, hurry up with the tea will ay!
Work, work, work, that's all do
I don't hear you bitch about the money.
I think I've been poisoned.
And you ate two baclavas, right? I not to touch them, mine was awful.
Look, I think I'm going to have to go to the john again. You go on through, I'll catch up.
Never was anybody like you...
You can't take anything seriously.
You're right.
Billy, what's the matter?
My passport!
No!
Susan  forget it. Go get us a seat on the plane. Now.
What is it? . . . Billy?
For Christ's sake, just GET on the plane, okay!
Billy  you'll just make yourself crazy.
Take it off! Take it off! ...S'il vous plait?...
Best way is get your ass out... any... way... you can...
What do you mean?
Get the... midnight... express.
What's that?
But how would you get into the shaft, Jimmy?
I suppose you knock three times and ask for St. Peter.
You gotta be fucking crazy! You got stabbed in the ass once too much, sweetheart, cause you're gonna end up in Section 13, that's what  not the 'catacombs.
Section 13?
Yeah, for the criminally insane. I was there once for two weeks and it ain't an illusion. It's awful. Namidou runs it like a death camp, that's where he spends most of his time...
Where is it?
I don' t know. It's someplace down in there.... ..deep.. A big door...a wheel....
You got your stuff?
Yeah.
Okay?
Yeah!
Jimmy?
What time is it?
Two thirty.
Shit! Shit! Shit!
It's a dead end. The Turks musta' sealed it up.
We go back.
What? You gotta be joking.
We go back, seal it up again, and come in tomorrow night  every night 'till we get out of here. There's gotta be a way. Those bats got out someplace. Now let's go. Doubletime!
Goddamn Gastro's killing me. Making me blind. Hey Billy!
Yeah.
I got some acid man. Maybe we can drop some on the guards huh? In their tea or something.
Yeah I got it all worked out. Billy, listen to me. That old guard likes you, You drop some acid on him. When he's Seeing rainbows yer know. walk out  tonight.
Then we're outside the kogus. Then what?
What?
After we're outside the kogus?
Oh we... we...
Max... Your BILLY shirt's on fire...
What?
Cut his fucking throat.
Whose?
ZIAT... What do I got to lose huh! What do I got to lose. And I'd really enjoy it.
Max, sit down. You're in no shape to kill anybody.
I want to cut his throat.
It's already been cut.
Then I'll cut his balls off.
...His money  steal that, you steal his blood... Could you see his face when everything he worked so hard to get got snatched? If we knew where he hid it. Anyway, steal from him they'd pick up the whole prison and shake it sideways. We couldn't hide it anywhere.
You know where it is?
What?
I know where it is.
'Dem dat hides can finds says I'... I seen him, the clever tit, sneaking looks at it late at night, talking to it.
Yeah? Where?
Hishradyo.
Max  where?
His radio Back of his open, radio...
Just got some news on Bell.
What?
Bad. Sent to the City Hospital. They ruptured his hernia again.
Oh shit.
Why the suit?
Maybe he's changing jobs.
Hello, Billy.
Hello.
I want you to know we're going to do everything, in our power to get you out as soon as possible. Believe me.
Thank you.
What's wrong?
Sit down a moment, Billy. I'm afraid I have some bad news for you.
No... It looks like your going to have a new court.
What do you mean?
The Prosecutor objected to your sentence for possession; he wanted a smuggling conviction and the High Court in Ankara reviewed it.
And?
We've been notified that they rejected the sentence...
What do you mean LIFE FOR FOR WHAT! FOR WHAT!
Billy! Please!
How's it feel?
About as good as it looks.
Just Erich.
I'm Billy Hayes... At least I used to be.
Feeling all right?
Yeah. That guy who beat me? I feel stoned.
New people sometimes get on his nerves.
What did he do?
And you?
Hashish. Ninety percent of the foreigners are in for hashish.
What they give you?
Twelve years.
How much did you have?
A hundred grams.
It's not fair!
There is no fair in Turkey, Billy. It's all "sulabula" like this, like that. An Italian hippie had a car accident and a Turk was killed. SO, they threw him in here for six months...
That doesn't seem so bad.
But he was eating lunch a mile away when the Turk smashed into killed himself.
He wasn't even in the car?
Aslan, there...
You just got to get yourself a good lawyer. And some money... Talk to Max. He's been in the longest.
How long?
Seven years...
You decided to fly at a bad time Billy Palestinian Guerrillas all over the place blowing up planes and all.
Stupid.
Four planes in four days...but I guess you kids don't read the newspapers...and what with our people kicking up a shit storm 'bout the flow of heroin from Turkey you got...
But didn't have heroin.
Well, you see Billy, it don't really matter right now if it's 2 kilos or 200 kilos. The Turks love to catch any foreigner smuggling  it shows the world they're fighting the drug trade.
But just...
Just what?
I just needed some extra money. I was broke, the guy offered me the hash and...
...are you with the Consulate?
Something like that. Cigarette?
How much you pay this joker... this cab driver?
Two hundred dollars. It was my last two hundred.
How much did you figure to make?
Three, four thousand...I don't know. The guy offered me the hash ...it just seemed like easy money.
Beats working.
I was just going to sell it to friends. I'm not a pusher, honest.
Got a family back there?
Yeah. Parents, brother, sister. Babylon, Long Island.
What's your father do?
He sells insurance for Metropolitan Life.
Be tough on 'em.
Girlfriend?
...She was on the plane.
She didn't know anything about...I wouldn't have wanted her to.
Lucky girl.
Jeez, she used to say I was the lucky one.
Let's hope so, Billy. Let's sure hope so.
No, I'm not afraid.
Good. There's nothing to be afraid of. If you cooperate with us, you will be on the plane for New York tomorrow... yes?
Yes...?
Good. Now, where did you get the hashish?
A cabdriver. He picked me up in the Pudding Shoppe in the bazaar.
Would you recognize him again?
Yes. I think so.
Good. Would you go back to the Pudding Shoppe now and point him out to my men if you see him?
You know where they are?
Sure.
How far?
About ten kilometers.
Sixty Lira?
Sixty?
Those mountains? are they?
Very bad now. Maybe war. Those Greek pigs try to steal Cyprus again ) How'd you lose your friends?
Two miles! Minefields over there. Do you know where this campground is or not?
Not far. Just a little way.
No! I'm not going any further! It'll wreck my car.
I'll pay extra
How much?
Where are the minefields?
All over. Turkish Army up there. It's against the law. They shoot us. You sure you looking for your friends, man?
Okay! Ley me out right here. I'm getting tired of all this bullshit from you. I'll walk it.
Ah, look! they probably know where the campers are
Dad...I'm...
...Don't worry about it. I can punch you in the nose later. Right now we've got to get you out of here. You all right?
Yeah. How's Mom?
Bad. She couldn't make the trip. You know Her boy... Susan told us before we got your letter. She's fine; she's trying to get the money to come back and see you, but...
No, don't let her! I'll... How about Peg? Robbie?
Same. None of the neighbors know. We told them you were in a hospital in Europe. Oh... this is Stanley Davis. He's the American Consul here... And Necdit Yesil, the lawyer you wanted...
Right! That's what we're shooting for. Mister Davis and have been in contact with the State Department, but right now relations with the Turks aren't too good, Nixon's upset the hell out of them. Our best bet's... right here.
Dad... I'll pay you back for all this, I Promise.
Don't worry about it. Right now money doesn't count. Okay?
Where'd you get that limp?
Nothing. Just twisted my ankle.
Where you staying, Dad?
The Hilton.
How do you like it? Istanbul?
Well, it's an interesting place... Tell you the truth, I think the food is lousy. The crap they sell in these little restaurants. I went out to eat in one of them last night, and I had to run to the damn toilet... You shoulda' seen the toilet.
Why'd you do it, Billy?
For the money... )
I know you kids smoke that stuff, and we drink booze, but taking it across a border  it was stupid, Billy. Stupid.
I know.
DAD!
Oh Jesus!
To what?
The prison, man. There was this German cat an architect in the hospital. He was helping the Turks build some shit round the place. I laid some bread on him and he let me copy them.
Too bad you didn't have a machine.
There's two ways out I figger  over the roof, but that's only one person, maybe two. The other way is Under.
Gotta be here someplace. Thought I heard a couple of dead Christians singing down there.
Stop shitting me, man!
the water like "'weeps" through the cement, see. Twenty, thirty years, you can almost push it over. All we do is use Gastrohead's screwdriver here and scrape the mortar out. Pull out 2, 3 stones, squeeze through, put 'em back, and get our ass down the shaft, It's a two night operation, maybe three.
And what do you do when you in the catacombs?
The catacoombs? Whaddya want, a door? There's miles of em like a sewer system but they got to come up someplace in Istanbul.
Hey, you know what's gonna get us out of here? It's not a map, Max. It's our balls. You know what I mean... ...I gotta get laid man, I don't know 'bout you guys, but if I don't get it on soon, I'm... I'm not gonna make it.
Shit.
Billy?
Haps, railroad, bus timetables?
Everything.
Getchmis olsun
Getchmis...?
Olsun  "May it pass quickly." I'm Bell, Jimmy Bell. This is Erich something Swedish.
Looks like a cheap hotel.
Yeah... Only the room service is lousy. Come on, let me show you the tennis courts.
'Figgers.
...He had a bald skull and...
Hamidou. Chief of the Guards. Don't fuck with him. He almost killed an Italian dude couple months ago. Bad news. He try anything with you?
The kids? Why are they...
Little fuckers are thieves, rapists, pickpockets, murderers, you name it  they do it. Don't trust any of 'em...
Yeah.
History, man, history. How much?
Two kilos.
Where?
The airport. Trying to get on the plane for the States.
Could be ten or fifteen. Maybe even twenty.
Twenty months?
Twenty fucking YEARS, man  YEARS! I figger ten at the least.
Years?
Yeah, what do you think this is, the good USA? This is Turkey, man... ) It's a fucking accident here if you're innocent. And anyway... ...ain't nobody who's innocent.
Tunnel?
It's already built! There's a basement substructure where they used to keep weapons and stuff, but beneath that there's these old catacombs that the Christians built 'bout a thousand fucking years ago to bury their dead. We're sitting right on top of it  here.
Hey! I'm getting this together man and I don't need no fucking Gastrohead along on this trip! We go through the wall.
We go through the wall?
You got that, shit face? Asina...
KNOCK IT OFF!
It's there!
What?
Listen!
Want me to take over?
You want to split your hernia again?
What?
How's your hernia?
Don't make me laugh.
Anybody bitten?
Nah, just covered with batshit!
They went out over there: must be some kind of exit.
Who?
Ziat!
You really want to do business?
Who's he? Oh God! Don't tell me you two are a couple  ?
Sold. Let's go.
... and taxi fare for me.
Get lost.
I agree. And for that service I charge one dollar taxi fare.
He fell. Hey, fella, you fell. Is he all right?
Is he all right!
Ever stationed at Kennedy? Those Florida chicks...
Instant VgoddamD.
This Pensacola teenybopper  jail bait  but built? Ten bucks she wanted. Three of us made a deal for, twentyfive, see, big goddam bargain?
Big penigoddamcillin bargain, right?
You got it.
No. You got it.
Am I tickled to find you, boy! Come on in and let's get a look at you. Turn around. Good strong back. You'll need it. So you want help  take a seat, relax, tell me about yourself. Cowboy, huh?
No sir, I'm no cowboy really, but I'm a first class stud.
Take it,easy, boy... Seems to me you're different than a lotta boys that come to me. Most of 'em seem troubled, confused, but I'd say you knew exactly what you want.
You bet I do, sir.
But I'll bet you got one thing in common with them other boys. I'll bet you're lonesome.
Well, not too, I mean, a little.
I'm lonesome. I'm lonesome so I'm a drunk. I'm lonesome so I'm a dope fiend. I'm lonesome so I'm a thief, a fornicator, a whoremonger. Poop, I say, poop! I've heard it all and I'm sick of it, sick to death.
Yessir, I can see that.
Lonesomeness is something you take. You bear? Dammit, you take it and go about your business, that's all.
Well, uh, I'm raring to go.
Yes, I believe you are. Cowboy, huh?
Uh, yessir.
Ready for hard work, son?
Ready for anything.
I got a hunch, Joe Buck, it's gonna be easier for you than most.
Gonna be like money from home.
Money from home, see, there's your strength, you put things in earthy terms any man can understand, son. I warn you I'm gonna use you, I'm gonna run you ragged!
You're a wonderful boy. You'n me gonna have fun, dammit, it don't have to be joyless. Say, why don't we get right down on our knees now?
Get down  where?
Right here, why not? I prayed in saloons, I prayed in the street, I prayed an the toilet. He don't care where, what He wants is that prayer.
A drink? I've got some nice gin. If you'd prefer something else, they'll send it up...
Gin's okay.
It's so exciting. New York. The mad forward thrust of everything. My sense of time here is completely altered.
Sometimes it seems to me time stopped twenty years ago. There was this war, there was this handsome young man with quite black hair and he was supposed to die. But he didn't. Isn't that amusing?
What?
What d'you want?
What?
What you got me up here for?
Oh, difficult, it's so difficult. You're a nice person, Joe  I should never have asked you up  a lovely person. Oh, how I loathe life. I loathe it. Please go. Please.
You want me to leave?
No, yes. No, I mean yes please go. Help me to be good. Come back tomorrow. Promise.
I'm going to Florida.
This is terrible. I meet someone who  then  wait, I want to give you a present. For your trip. You'll let me please...
Listen, I gotta have money.
Oh. Yes. Of course. I should have thought. You shouldn't have to ask. That was thoughtless of me. Yes. Wait here...
Here. Don't even thank me.
I gotta have more'n ten. I gotta have fiftyseven dollars.
I simply don't have it, Joe.
Get outta my way.
You're wasting your time. There's nothing in there.
That is one hell of a shirt. I bet you paid a pretty price for it, am I right?
Oh, it ain't cheap. I mean, yeah, I'd say this was an all right shirt. Don't like to, uh, you know, have a lot of cheap stuff on my back.
Sheeit... Keerist, you really know the ropes. Wish to hell I bumped into you before. I'm Joe Buck from Texas and I'm gonna buy you a drink, what do you say to that?
Enrico Rizzo from the Bronx. Don't mind if I do.
Same all around! For my friend, too!
... you see what I'm getting at here? She got a penthouse up there with color TV and more goddam diamonds than an archbishop and she busts out bawling when I ask for money!
For what?
For money.
For money for what?
I'm a hustler, hell, didn't you know that?
How would I know? You gotta tell a person these things A hustler? Picking up trade on the street like that  baby, believe me  you need management.
I think you just put your finger on it, I do.
My friend O'Daniel. That's who you need. Operates the biggest stable in town. In the whole goddam metropolitan area. A stud like you  paying!  not that I blame you  a dame starts crying, I cut my heart for her...
Hey, listen, how about you take me to mee this Mister O'Diddle bird right now?
Well, Joe, you're a nice guy, and I'd be doing you both a favor, but why? What'm I dragging my bum leg all over town for? It's no picnic and what for, for me myself, what?
Tomorrow when some piece like that's scratching your back in a Fifth Avenue townhouse, where'll your pal Rizzo be? Nedicks.
Hold it, just hold it. You think I'm that kinda sombitch? Just name your cut, whatever you want, you got it right now. Five? Ten, how's that?
Let's see how you look. Fine. You look fine. Now I'm gonna have to have that other ten...
Ten, ten  I got a twenty  take that...
Oh hell, forget it.
Now take it. Go on. Listen, where can I reach you? Cause I'm gonna make this right with you soon's I get me set up...
Forget it.
I mean, dammit, where you live?
What's in your socks?
Not a cent, I swear to God, I swear on my mother's eyes.
You keep the sixtyfour cents. I want you to have it.
It's sticky. What you do, slobber on 'em? I wouldn't touch 'em.
You want some free medical advice, shut your goddam mouth about that night.
Okay, right, right, okay. Another subject. Where you living? Still at the hotel?
Listen, keep away from me, hear? You come near me again, I snatch you baldheaded!
I'm inviting you. I mean if you're not located, I got a place. I'm inviting you, goddamit.
You inviting sheeit.
Smart thing for me to do is haul ass outta here.
Whatsa matter now?
You don't seem like no fag...
What's that supposed to mean?
What for?
So you could sleep! I mean Christ!
I drug in a cot, if you want to stay.
Well now, Ratso, I'm gonna tell you something for your own good, only first gimme a cigarette.
You want me to stay here tonight, is that the idea?
I ain't forcing you, like, I mean, who's forcing you?
Oh. Guess I got the wrong impression.
I want you to stay, okay? I goddam invited you, didn't I?
Well, I hope you know what you're in for. I'm a very dangerous person. Someone does me bad like you. If I caught up with you that night, there'd be one dead Ratso long about now. Hear?
I'm impressed. You're a killer.
So if you want me to hang around for a few days, I thought you should know.
Joe  do me one favor  this is my place, am I wrong? You know, in my own place my name ain't Ratso. I mean it so happens my name is Enrico Salvatore Rizzo.
Sheeit, man, I can't say all that.
Rico then, at least call me Rico in my own goddam place.
Rico! Rico! Rico! Is that enough? And keep your meat hooks off my radio.
The two basic items necessary to sustain life are sunshine and coconut milk. That's a known fact. If I can find the goddam hole the milk squirts out.
This is an okay setup you got here, but I'd say you ain't just exactly, uh, flush, is that right or not?
I been sick. Hold this, will ya?
In Florida, they come smooth, ready to eat. Down there, your only problem is, dietwise, you gotta lift an arm to wipe warm milk off your chin. Tough, hey?
I think finding you's the smartest thing I ever did, for both of us. You just the crooked kinda sneaky little sidewinder I need to get me hustling in this town. Hey!
Miami Beach is the only place for a real hustler. Florida has more rich chicks per square yard than any resort spot in the world. They lie out in their pagodas and pergolas waiting to grab the first jockstrap that passes.
What's all this sweet talk about Florida? Your friend O'Daniel got a stable down there now?
Look at yourself, Joe, no offense, but frankly, you're beginning to smell. For a stud in this town that's a handicap.
You talk like a man with a tin twat.
You ain't got a chance in hell. You need threads and glitter, baby. A front, hey?
Well, uh, my manager's gonna manage all that crap, or else he gonna get a coconut up his flue.
Hey, you're good! I bet you could pick up a living at this if you tried.
And end up a hunchback like my old man? You think I'm crippled? You shoulda caught him the end of a day.
Keerist, you pretty damn clever for a skimpy little gimp.
You like it? Take a look.
Don't rush me. How I do it, see, I get myself primed, like I was turning on the charm for some pretty little blonde lady, then kinda mosey away slow and easy and  swing around!  and there you are, you handsome devil.
Not bad  for a cowboy  you're okay, you're okay.
What I'm gonna do, I'm gonna make a cowboy outta you, kid. How about that? Build you up a little, teach you couple little tricks'n turn y'out to stud, Ratstuff.
Sheeit. Cough yourself inside out, then light a fag, a goddam fag. You make me puke. Where'd you steal it? In the movies?
The coat? A guy I did a favor once gave it to me. Christ.
Who'd you ever do a favor for? You just let some poor bastard freeze to death, wouldn't you?
Where'd that come from?
Fortysecond Street. Where'n hell you think it come from?
You wanna know the truth? You dumb bastard, I got it for you. Look at it. Goddam thing's ten sizes too big for me.
Keerist, you sure are one twisty little bastard, Ratso.
The name's Rico, at my own father's grave, a man deserves some respect.
Respect sheeit! You even steal flowers for his grave.
Can he smell the difference, eh?
Well, uh, he dam well know he ain't 'beloved Aunt Winifred'.
He can't read. Even dumber than you. Couldn't write his own name. X  that's what it ought to say there on that goddam headstone. One big lousy X like our flat. Condemned. By order of City Hall.
Well, this thought just struck me. It wasn't too long ago I was washing dishes way the hell somewhere in Texas.
Yeah, well, so?
Now I'm here. I'm in New York City. Getting picked for things. Don't you see what I'm driving at?
What you're driving at, you want me to get lost so you can go to your fancyass party.
Did I say that? Did I? It don't say nothing about you...
Don't say nothing about you either.
But they picked me, right? So what I'll do, I'll just say, now look, you want me? Well, I don't go nowhere without my buddy here.
Well, what the hell, I got nothing better to do.
You got a comb?
Don't need a comb.
Few dozen cooties won't kill me, don't guess.
Well, I made it. This here is Ratso Rizzo and I...
Rico. Rico Rizzo.
Tell her, Ratso.
Twenty bucks...
Well, if you're awright, why you hanging on the bannister. Can you walk or not?
Walk? Naturally I can walk.
They wrong?
No. But while you was buying the underwear, I could have lifted the socks.
You couldn't lift fly specks from a sugar bowl. Can you hold this?
But thanks. Hey, Joe, don't get sore about this or anything. You promise?
Yeah.
Well, I don't think I can walk. I mean, I been falling down a lot and, uh...
And what?
I'm scared.
What of?
What'll happen. I mean what they do to, you know, do with you  if you can't  ah, Christ!
Who?
I don't know. Cops. Or the  how should I know?
Okay. Here it is. You gonna go see the doctor. I got nine bucks and twenty more Thursday and I gonna be riding high before you know it. So you gonna get you the best goddam doctor in this town and get yourself straightened out, that's what.
No doctors. No, sir. Not me. Doctors are like goddam auto mechanics. Fix onething, unplug another. Operate for piles and while they're there, they unscrew your liver. My old man, for God's sake, wasn't any sicker'n I am when he went to the doctor.
Well, just exactly what the hell you think you're gonna do? Die on me?
I'm going to Florida, that's my only chance.
You know what's wrong with you? You got fevers. You kinky as a bedbug. How you gonna get to Florida?
I'll find the money. If you just get me on the bus, that's all I ask.
Just when everything's going my way, you gotta pull a stunt like this.
I don't even want you to go. Whaddya think of that? I got other plans for my life than dragging around some dumb cowboy that thinks he's God's gift to women. One twentybuck trick and he's already the biggest stud in New York City. It's laughable.
These guys're good drivers.
They gotta be.
Yeah.
You get your first palm tree in South Carolina.
How'n hell a dumb Bronx kid like you know that?
I read it.
Sheeit. You believe all you read?
If you have to shiver, why don't you pull the blanket up more?
I been thinking. I hope we're not gonna have a lotta trouble about my name down there. Because like what's the whole point of this trip anyway?
Keep the goddam blanket on.
I mean New York's one thing, but can you see this guy, imagine it, running around the goddam beach all suntan and he's going in swimming, like, and then somebody yells 'Hey, Ratso'  how does that sound to you?
Sounds like they knew you.
Sounds like crap, admit it. And I'm not gonna have it. I'm Rico all the time, okay, do you blame me? That's agreed, okay? We're gonna tell all these new people my name's Rico?
Hey  whatsa matter?
I'm wet.
You're what?
I wet my pants! My seat's all wet.
Hell, don't cry about it!
Here I am going to Florida and my leg hurts, my butt hurts, my chest hurts, my face hurts, and like that ain't enough, I gotta pee all over myself.
I'm falling apart, that's funny?
You just  just  what happened, you just had a little rest stop wasn't on the schedule.
Hey, what the hell you doing?
I'm zipping your fly, what the hell you think I'm doing?
Thanks, Joe.
Sheeit, you know, I got this thing all figured out, Ratso. I mean Rico. When we get to Miami, what I'll do, I'll go to work. I gotta do that, 'cause see, I ain't no kind of a hustler. I ain't even any goddam good as a bum. I'm a nothing, that's what I am. So reckon I'd better go to work and get me a goddam job. Okay?
I can tell, can't you?
Yeah, oh yeah.
What'll we do? Leave now or what? Your place or mine? Oh God, the second I looked at you I knew. Did you?
He's got taxi fare.
Sure you're all right?
Well, that's something never happened to me before, you can bet your bottom dollar. Uh, where's the matches, ma'am?
Top drawer. Maybe if you didn't call me ma'am, things would work out better.
You think I'm lying!
No. Of course not. Just something struck me funny...
Maybe we should take a little nap, see what happens?
I ain't sleepy.
I know. Scribbage!
That's pretty Freudian, Joe.
What? It's a perfectly good word, ain't it. How much time I got? Goddam sand thing drive you crazy. Keerist. Spelling never was a very strong point with me. Even in school.
If you didn't talk so much, maybe you could think more.
Talking helps. Don't talk, you get muddled in your head. Hey! Now you just look at this here!
There's an E in MONEY. If that's your word.
MONY  I'm right! That's just exactly how they spell it up there on that big building, bet you could see it from here. MONY.
Okay. Never argue with a man.
Y  what in hell starts with Y?
Cut it out. That's cheating, teasing me so I can't think. Just one bitsy Y word and I gonna beat you!
You gonna beat me, Joe?
Beat your butt, you don't lemme think!
Gay ends in Y. Fey. You like that  gay fey  is that your problem?
I show you what problem 
Were you looking? About the Statue of Liberty?
Joking? No, ma'am. Oh no! I mean business!
I'm sorry. I thought you were  never mind  I've never actually been there, but let me see, you take the Seventh Avenue subway, I think, to the end of the line...
You sure are a pretty lady.
You're not looking for the Statue of Liberty at all.
No, ma'am, I'm not.
Why, that's perfectly dreadful. Aren't you ashamed of yourself?
You ain't coming to work?
Don't guess. Just come for my day's pay owing and to tell you I'm heading East.
What you gonna do back there, East?
Lotta rich women back there...
Yeah?
Men, they mostly faggots.
Must be some mess back there.
Well, ain't no use hanging around here.
Ain't gonna collect your pay?
I got me two hundred twentyfour bucks of flat folding money... He know what he can do with that chickenshit day's pay. And if he ain't man enough to do it for himself, I be happy to oblige!
Beg pardon, ma'am. I'm brand spanking new to this town, come from Houston, Texas, and hoping to get a look at the Statue of Liberty...
You're hoping to get a look at what?
The Statue of Liberty.
It's up in Central Park, taking a leak. If you hurry, you'll make the supper show. Now get lost.
Don't know what line Morey's in, but myself now, fact is  I'm a hustler.
Hers'n zodda meg a livig.
Beg pardon, ma'am?
Said, a person's gotta make a living.
You sure you heard what I said?
Scuse me, hon, fraid I'm only half here. Maybe you oughta run on along. But why don't you take this phone number?
You're such a doll. I hate money, don't you? God, it's been fun.
Funny thing, you mentioning money. I was just about to ask your for some...
What the hell did you do?
The Feeb gig was I front a coupla undercover, Russianspeakers to them. One's ATF. And broker the deal. Set up the meet with the NLR types...
I gotta, I gotta go...!
Alonzo...
What...?
Alonzo, you don't need to go home.
They said they wouldn't hurt them, wouldn't hurt them if...
They lied.
So lay it out, my brother...
Nicholas said you okay. That's nice. But how I know if you any good?
Equipment?
Slow and low, Adam A500s... ...carbon composite, stealthy, 1400 nauticalmile range, thousand ki payload...all the way to Caravels and 727's from a source country to a transshipment point. Small freighters. We've done containers...
And violence is extra. And expensive. So how much weight you looking to move?
Nothing. 'Cause how you do delivery on the beach, I don't like. Maybe this does not work.
What do you care?
Do we need this...?
Then what were we talking to you for?
I had to lay eyes on you.
What do I care what you think about how he looks? You wanna fuck my partner or do business?
Wait by the phone. You get a call. Or maybe you don't. Until then, piss off back to where you come from...
This the load you lost a while back?
It is. He try to take tonight's load?
I walk into Neptune's house...very nice. But I also see you... and our drugs that got ripped from Maguda.
You don't like us finding your load? We can go and lose it all over again...
Transshipment point is here at 17:00 hours on the 23rd.
Uhuh. No predetermined places and times to meet. Give me their heading and radio codes and I will talk to them directly with the longs and lats and time which will be a last minute deal...
<u>You</u> give <u>yours</u> to me. <u>We</u> position all the assets hauling our loads...
Importation value? At twentytwo thousand a ki...
You work that out with La Senora. You will get sixteen fuel bladders of crystal meth precursors from the Malaysian ship. For collection in North Miami. You warehouse it. Release it when we say. I'm sure you have friends with fast boats...
I run down the numbers. Nothing is very negotiable. Small loads? We pay three thousand a ki. We pay your fuel costs up front plus ten percent. The next ten percent on U.S. landfall.
Define small.
Two, three thousand a ki. Two thousand ki's, your end is $6,000,000. Complex transshipments or dealing with containers, these have front loaded costs we pickup. For this kind of weight, the balance of 80% is when our buyer picks up the load. Transactions are offshore. Dollars or euros. Secure internet transfers. We have lists of Cayman and Isle of Man banks infiltrated by IRS, to be avoided... No transactions of cash or other banking instruments take place on U.S. soil... That's the deal.
And as an investment in the future...
"Future" of...?
Conveyance?
Maritime. Jose will fill you in.
That sonofabitch!
You set this up!
Of course! That is why I placed myself here, with you, knowing Yero would pull this crap.
It's all bullshit. Jesus is out of communication in Fals de Iguazu. Jos knows that... Whatever he's going to do, he has to do it fast because he's acting on his own. And he will need a story.
Meaning...?
They will kill you. And then they will kill your wife, too.
...and we're looking at Nigerian crude...
Precursor shipments from Ras Tanura and Ju'aymah?
Transshipped to a Malaysian container ship.
Not French registry?
They've been targeted. And Pakistani registry is too vulnerable to search and seizure right now.
Jos doesn't like the deal in South Florida...
Burnett? They want 22% of the value on loads they run into South Florida. It's the Juarez cartel model. They guarantee the loads. The upside is our risk goes to zero. That freesup capital.
But what does your intuition tell you...?
And...?
They're serious. They're cautious. They'll forgo a deal over a technicality of how a delivery's handled...they'd walk away, rather than compromise operational security...that's good.
Why?
A good deal, like this with us, for Burnett will be good only temporarily. He'll get restless because he believes nothing is forever. Life is dust, make it while you can. He's ambitious.
I think Jos suspects anybody he doesn't intimidate. And people, who are good at what they do? They have egos, too...
What would you do...?
I like the diminished risk. It frees up capital reserves. I like working with selfinterested businessmen who are competent. You can predict their behavior....
So?
Switek pulling this off...? That's not faith; that's delusional...
Only African he ever "relocated" was a $2,000anhour Nigerian model for Gucci, and he got wounded when she took an NBA draft choice to the Super Bowl instead of him...
He did volunteer one time...
What am I supposed to do after I get my nails and hair done...?
Reality TV and stay by the phone. That's what all wivesincrime do...
You okay?
Yeah.
You sure?
Yes. What's up?
Nothing. Calling to say hi... What's up with you?
Bored.
Okay...see you soon.
...and thanks for the flowers.
What flowers?
The bouquet, here. Fivehundred dollars worth of roses...yellow.
You mean with the flowers...?
What's it say?
"Salutations from the south..."
Okay.
Good idea. We'll grab a bite.
...the lease, the phones, the cars...layers of false ident. Would take the FBI weeks. How long did it take them? Three hours? Four? This means, "We can reach out and touch somebody." Like Bad Teleflora.
...even if they could run the identities you built to EPIC, all they'll find is more cover... Trust what you built. It's quality, girl. We're cool...
...you are trying to reassure me because you know when people get anxious, they make mistakes. You're worried about me. Do not be. I am careful. I am cool. I got Trudy, backup, whatever. You worry about you. Because you are the ones who are in denied territory, not me. If your focus is on me, you'll miss something coming at you. That's how people slip up. Get hurt. And I'd die if anything happened. You worry about <u>you</u>. You and Sonny...are in the dangerous place. I'm fine...
Correct. Flash samples. Flash cash.
Haitian, Dominican, Russian, Israeli?
White supremacist types.
Oh, good...
...what else, what else did he indicate to you? I need to know everything he said.
C'mon, man!
We think NLR. We don't know! Alonzo only fronted as a broker for our guys to make the meet. He wasn't deep into the crew.
Break your encryption? Hack your e mail? Employee databases? Somebody on the inside?
We don't know. And that's the point. Maybe there's a mole. Whatever, it's a disaster. And it's a Joint Interagency Task Force. I have DEA, ATF, U.S. Customs components in on it. So the penetration could be from any one agency. What we do know is I have to suspend operations right now from undercover work through interdictions 'cause I have to assume our Operational Security is blown.
As in, your ass is dead in the water.
But Miami PD wasn't part of the J.I.T. And from what Alonzo said, he didn't give you up.
Reverse undercover? WE supply to them?
They got a steady stream of supply. So, no...
Who are you talking to?
He's talking to you, bro. What he means to say is he is reluctant to abandon the penetration of a major narcotrafficking organization...
Yeah...?
Sonny...?
Yeah.
Where's Riccardo?
On the phone.
I'm sorry. I'm sorry, Sonny...
It's fucked up. I'm sorry...
Alonzo? What are you talking about? Where are you...?
They had me from the gate.
I don't understand...
I gave up nothing on you guys. Don't worry. I kept you and Rico out of it. Only the Feds. They're on their own...it's all their deal, anyway, so fuck 'em.
Alonzo, what's goin' on?!
After I check on Francine and the boys, then I'm gone. Sonny, tell Rico I'm so sorry. I wanted you to know...
Where are you?
...look after her. Ask Rico to. Okay? Do that for me. I had to do it. They had me from the gate. Do that. Whatever you can do for them. Okay? Look what I did to them, Sonny...!
Alonzo...!
Goodbye.
How'd they get onto you?
How do I know? But it was from the getgo. Knew the FBI had run me into them. Sonny, I gotta go...!
This I gotta see... ...the "make up an excuse and stop" part.
Have faith.
I have faith. In horoscopes and fortune cookies...
"Hi, Gina. Hi, Sonny."
Hi, Gina. This is from Frick and Frack. Trudy?
You're so <u>not</u> the PD, if you got busted on a DUI, you're in serious trouble...you're bad men back to grammar school. San Quentin. Pelican Bay. Marine Corps. Statesville. Pelican Bay, where you guys hooked up. Now you're too smart and too fast to get jacked again...
How will it stand up?
If they ran the rental car or lease on this place...even if it's EPIC database in El Paso...they'd have to work through the layers of bullshit three weeks deep. Then they'd find your deeper, hidden criminal selves...
Hello?
This is Agent James Fujima.
Detective Crockett.
What's your Miami PD badge number?
447 Charlie 1292.
Okay. What's up?
A C.I. we cut loose to your Joint Interagency Task Force. Name of Alonzo Stevens. Now, he's YOUR informant. Stevens, called us. I haven't spoken to him for six months. I do not know what case you have him on. I do not know what he is talking about. But whatever he is doing for you, it sounds like it is going bad. Right now...
How do I discuss operations over an open line?
How do I know? I got the call from Alonzo on an open line. That is the hand we have been dealt at this moment, at elevenfortyseven o'clock Friday night. Okay? I am trying to alert you, here. <u>You</u> know whether or not...you have a thing goin' down. I do not. But we know this guy. I think you know this guy. Normally, he is cool. Tonight he is distraught. That is atypical. That engenders foreboding. Do you understand the meaning of the word "foreboding"? As in badness is happening to <u>your</u> deal right fucking now?
Guy's involved in a "meet"...
"Buy and walk"? "Buy and bust"? "Reverse undercover"? What?
Meet and greet. "I flash you some of mine, you flash me some of yours?"
And the deal goes down at another place at another time.
That's right.
...so there's <u>no</u> industrial strength HRT weapons team out there tonight?
OMGs, Mongols, Nazi LowRiders, prison gangs?
NLR, we think. I wanna know...
How?
We don't know.
So what do you want?
To recruit you.
Get into business with this crew, identify them. Illuminate their network. If you're lucky, discover their source, how they penetrated us. We'll indict and take it from there...
How do we do that? Make a buy? That went well...
From whom...?
A Colombian producer. Named Archangel de Jesus MontoyaLondono.
Never heard of him.
From the North Valle area. New. Lowlevel, we think.
Who said, "go exploring"? We want this staying on track.
Who's the "we"? There's you and there's us. And all we got from you was bad intel. "Lowlevel producer." Yeah, right...
What are you talking about?
Montoya. We went to meet the village priest. It turns into Alice in the fucking Vatican and here's the Pope...of the North Valle Colombia dope trade.
Out of...?
Haiti and Puerto Rico. Money through Dubai and Geneva maybe.
Control your men.
I'm my <u>own</u> man. And anytime you want to see how much man I am?
Eleven to seven he blows it.
Twenty on my man...
You're giving away your money, fool...
Go ahead.
Too fast. Too many moving parts.
Switek?
If we were for real, and knew our shit, we'd fade this one...
Then you should.
If you're down, we're down for the play.
What's our deal?
Backup in case the Russians get physical.
How lucky's Miss Universe gotta be?
Skin has to touch skin. That's the requirement for the warrant. Then he makes a credible excuse and he stops.... Her crew blackmailed and asset stripped the last mark down to his social security...
And there's Dmitri...
The honey trap. And there's the honey.
Hello, Miss Ukraine...
What is it?
Alonzo...
Stevens?
Something's wrong.
White gangs...? It doesn't track.
White gangs is tweakers and a crystal meth lab in a trailer park. Bounce around the old lady Saturday night and get your recidivist ass busted back...
Aryan brothers are not going to changeup suppliers. So...
Transpo? How they bringing the loads in...?
Track with me, here... They knew the "Russians" were undercover Feeb? They should have noshowed. But, no, these guys show anyway, and commit murder upon federal officers. And steal all your money... What does that say to you?
It says, "We do not fear you." It says, "Fuck off and die." It says, "We get down for recreation..."
So?
We could try to run loads into these guys. Run a few loads for Montoya into South Florida. Into this group.
And we didn't come down here to audition. Business auditions for us... ...and know who we are and know they want their load run by us <u>before</u> Nicholas calls.
That way we do not waste AvGas or our motherfucking time.
People gonna walk into this place and say, "Ola, hijo! That some crazy wallpaper. Whew...it wild! Is that a Jackson Pollack?"
"No, viejo. That was Jos Yero, splattered all over his motherfucking wall."
So we can close each other's eyes right now. Real easy. Real fast. But, then, nobody makes any money...
And specialize in very fast gofast boats for coastal runs.
What kind of weight?
The people on shore who handle a load we run are our people, not your people. No tweakers, dopers, first timers we don't know. They didn't do time with us, they ain't doing crime with us.
What <u>you</u> get <u>from</u> us is a date. A place. "In the parking lot of a JackintheBox in north Miami." At suchandsuch time, an eighteen wheeler will be there. Keys in the ignition. Ready to roll. You pick it up. And you drive it... ...away.
Money thing is done in advance in places where there are no guns. Because when money and guns get together, there is violence...
Then it don't work.
What happened to the last transporter you <u>had</u>?
Anything?
Nothing.
Where we meeting 'em...?
PortAuPrince.
What do we got?
Five minutes...
They watching us watching them watching us waiting for them? Or what?
Who knows...
To the limit.
You worried about the tree line, US Customs AWACS, or something else on your mind?
Like...?
Gina in the Miami pad. You gonna give me phony denials?
No. You gonna give me phony reassurances?
No.
Good. So let's go...
How much we looking for?
Nothing.
Where the hell are you, man?
On my way back...
Where'd you go?
Hit a couple of jazz clubs. Fell back to her place.
Where?
Verdado.
Verdado where?
It's in the suburbs outside Havana.
Havana, Cuba...?
No. Havana, Louisiana. Don't we have a meet?
...where you're makin' a move on the wife of Archangel de Jesus Montoya?
No.
You're not makin' a move on her...?
We're makin' moves on each other.
Oh, that makes it okay, then.
Yeah. CIAlevel stuff...
And what does that level of spending on firstclass, private sector infrastructure signify to you?
Megatonnage and megacash flow...
Their loads are polydrug. "E" from Holland, methamphetamine precursors from Jordan, Afghan "H." Midocean transshipments. His real business is: he's a network.
And we can illuminate part of it from the inside out.
So we want to changeup the mission statement.
Hey, fuck him.
Chill out Sonny.
We're the ones doing the death defying shit? And he wants us to give that up? For what? A chumpchange bust so he can get his picture in <i>The Miami Herald</i> to impress the slug farm in DC...
What is going on...?!
As in...?
There is "undercover." And there is "Which way is up?"
You think I am in so deep I forgot?
I am asking. You to me.
Do you <u>believe</u>...I have forgotten I am a cop?
I would never doubt you.
If you see a few new faces, don't get jumpy...
And Jos, my ace, lots of transshipment. Lots of action. Skies are crowded. And the JIT has assets on land, air, and sea. So any intel you got that can come our way and contribute to the good and welfare...?
What's your take?
What's the point? It's going down.
Call the US Coast Guard: "Come and arrest our ass." And Switek resumes romancing Miss Ukraine...
Jos...
Sonny Burnett...this is my partner, Rico.
Sit.
What...?
Who you run loads for? Cause other than Nicholas, you knows you?
You afraid of violence?
I am not John Wayne. There is no "S" on his chest. We get down if the play calls for it. But we are into business and making money.
Red light, green light, Jos?
I'm also called "Cochi Loco." That means "Crazy pig." 'Cause I enforce security and get people to tell me what I need to know. That part of what I do, you never want to find out about. Other people will negotiate the money and go or not go. Not me...
Client got delivery. But there were..."extras" in the back of the truck.
"Extras" tried to relieve us of your weight... And by the by, you know of a player in Overtown who goes by the name of "Things Aquatic"?
I do. We don't do business with him...
He tried to..."do business"...with you. Around ten. His place. Be there.
I'll be there.
Yeah.
And what do I do with him?
How 'bout this? How'd Neptune know where to hit us? Huh? Whose Op sec's got a leak? Yours?
What'd Neptune tell you?
He didn't. Interrogation's not in our skill set. So c'mon, what suspicions have you masterminded off these associations?
Here's what this is...ask how much they want to turn back to us our load...
Packaging?
Fiftygallon drums. Thirtytwo. A hundred kilos in each. You transship that to the Malaysian boat.
Yeah?
Hey, Captain Kirk. I think maybe I have second thoughts.
You got something to say, Jos, let's hear it.
I confess I have succumbed to my weaknesses. An inability to see another's point of view. I've discussed it with professionals. Even with one of your friends. She's here now...
What friend?
Mrs. Rico. But don't worry. She is safe. To insure that, I am keeping her close to me. It's always good to keep people your friends care about close to you.
Proof of life. How do I know Mrs. Rico's alive?
'Cause she will tell you.
Put your guns on the table... If we wanted you dead, you would no longer be drawing breath in Miami. We wouldn't have brought you all the way here.
Really? So, what is this, a party?
I thought we had to meet the Man.
You do.
When?
Right now.
We want it back.
Okay.
What's the recovery? How much are you looking for?
What's "nothing"?
Nothing. As in "free, gratis."
There is one thing you can do for me in recognition of the death defying risks we took to recover your product...
And what is that?
What do you like to drink?
I'm a fiend for mojitas.
How fast does that go?
It goes very fast.
Show me...?
So where's the best place for mojitas?
Bodeguita del Medio. It's the <u>only</u> place for mojitas...
Where's that?
Off a little alley with cobblestones. Hemingway went there...
The Keys?
Havana.
Havana? Cubans don't like us or my business...
Are you afraid? Good. And you don't need a visa. Cause you're with me.
My cousin is the harbor master. You must not bring in drugs. You cannot be armed. If you're carrying, it has to go. Or stow it inside. No one will go near your boat...
You do business in Cuba with your husband?
I never do business in Cuba. And nobody goes to Cuba but me. And he is not my husband...
Were you born in Havana?
Angola. My mother was being a surgeon there. She volunteered. Mozambique and Mali, too... ...those days, in those days...she was part of Cuba's gift to the third world. She came from a bourgeois family with a house in Verdado...we still have the house. We will go there...
Where's she now?
She's dead...
Your father?
Angolan Military. Went back to the fighting. Disappeared. Who knows...?
How's he not your husband?
I am no one's wife. I live in my own house. I do not live in a man's house. He has a wife. We are together. I am free. Because of banking and finance and travel... And I can do anything I want...
Mojitas...?
Later! Do you dance?
I dance...
Tell <u>me</u> everything.
No.
I insist.
Okay. Macon, Georgia is where I was born. Wound up in a juvenile facility. I was 14. Then the military. Then prison. Because I was dumb and angry. Then I read. Then I got smart. Then I discovered what I know, now...it's all business...
Blanca...a rubio like you. I see her in a dress...an old photograph from Lucinda somebody's wedding...everybody is with couples. Husbands and wives. They all pose. My mother is alone because my father had to go back to the fighting. ...she looks right into the camera. She is the most beautiful woman in the room. By herself. In a party dress. And she looked like she knew she would die alone... She spoke many languages. We were in Luanda when she died. I went to her friends in Mali. They sent me to the Ecole Polytechnique in Geneva to study mathematics, where I met Montoya in the discos. He had banking there...I was seventeen and very much into the clubs. And he sent me to University for an MBA in Finance. Your mother?
Died in childbirth, having me...
To mothers. And all that we owe them...
You know how improbable this is...?
"Probable"...applies to an event that may be real. Doesn't apply here.
...'cause we have no future...are of today and not tomorrow.
That's right.
...and therafore there is no consequence?
Exactly.
Like...?
Like "three thousand a ki?" That's nice. And I can supply the transportation into South Florida and the Gulf, more reliable and ontime than FedEx. But, three per ki was OK for openers.
And why should continuing excellence cost more?
Cost less. That's the point.
Is it December?
What do you mean?
Did Christmas come early this year...?
Better than that. We become partners. Only in this territory and only on loads we run. And you don't pay us three thousand a ki. You pay us zero. Why we get is thirty percent of the load. Product or cash. "And why," you're thinking, "would I be crazy enough to out in these gringos like that? Is he chipping? Crazy for my love? Too many mojitas?" And the answer is, "of course" but also "no. It is because Sonny can deliver what no one else can."
Good samba dancing...?
Zero risk.
'Cause you don't lose loads?
'Cause we <u>guarantee</u> every load. Anywhere, for any reason, it comes up short, we make good. Your operations will, from now on, run riskfree.
And you're our thirtypercent partner?
The range should be between fifteen and seventeenpointfive percent of the P.O.E....to even consider it.
I need thirty. Calculate in, also, the cash you don't have to front...
Available cash is not an issue for us...
Twentyeightpointfive.
What if I pushed to twentyone...?
I would say you're... ...four percentage points away from a deal...
Maybe I'm only one.
Hola, chica.
Hola, viejo.
I forgot the napkins.
And the chopsticks and fortune cookies?
What's the best fortune you ever got?
They're all the same. "Financial security is around the corner." "Your friends love you."
In Kowloon, once, I got one that said, "Live now because life is dust."
Do you have assets somewhere else? Bank accounts?
Why?
...to fall back on. You know, a failsafe. Insurance.
Do I need it?
Everybody needs it. Ask Prudential. Or Allstate.
'Cause whatever can go wrong, will...?
Something like that. The odds catch up with you. The odds are like gravity. You can't negotiate with them. So...at some point, you should cash out, take your money and run...
Really?
Sure. As far away and as fast as you can.
When?
Whenever. Maybe later, maybe sooner.
Would you find me...?
Of course.
Where would I go?
Zanzibar. The Comoros Islands. Somewhere in the Indian Ocean. There's twelvehundred islands there...
Is this the protective male talk?
This is the talk of a man...if he were your husband...he would never put you at risk. He would never put you within a thousand miles of anything that could hurt you.
And if I were in the Comoros, in the Indian Ocean, where would you be...?
A few more moments, still in this business. Then I'd find you.
Would you? Because if you couldn't, I would be very lonely... I would have left the only world I know and have known since I was seventeen. But none of this will happen. So it doesn't matter. Because we are on the Guajira Peninsula. And all you see around you...look around... is Archangel de Jesus Montoya Londono. He is my man. And you are a smuggler moving a load...
...in the morning.
I'll be on board by noon.
Yero, by himself?
Maybe. Maybe with the crazy whites.
If they attack you...
...it's gonna be an Lshaped ambush. They're not gonna open up until they got the party favors, 'cause all they'd get is a lot of police scrambling to a gunfight. They <u>will</u> wait till they got the goods before they do the deed.
What are you going to do with me? Are you taking me to jail? You think I will turn into your informant, is that it?
No.
No part of it wasn't real.
I know. And now?
It still is. I'm so in this, I don't know which way is up... All I know is I won't let anything bad happen to you. Just like I said. And I know we can't ever see each other again. And we never will.
So...?
Meth precursors and the Dutch party favors are en route.
All I want to know is the where and the when. Spare me mini moves, progress reports and bullshit.
Okay. You got the "item"?
I got the item.
And our friend don't like the rest of the people bringin' the merch to you.
How many?
Two main players plus three.
My end?
25% discount on the load.
Make it 40%.
Make it 35.
Deal.
We're not certain...
You said Nazi Lowriders...?
We're not certain!
Not anymore. This is a distribution network out of South Florida, moving polydrug loads, crystal meth through coke, to Nashville, Atlanta, Memphis, Cleveland. And computer fraud, identity theft. It's like that.
Tell them what you want.
They knew about Alonzo, <u>before</u> he made a move on them. They had our operation. They've cut into us.
You need to consider a few issues.
...you'd be operating outside territorial United States. Your badges do not count. You have no authorization to carry weapons. If you're busted, it could take a long time to get you repatriated. And there's no backup... And you will share with them all your intel on Montoya...
Sure.
I mean <u>full</u> disclosure.
Of course. From my side, I don't WANT to know anything about what you're doing or how you do it... So let me know if we're on...
I don't know.
Yes you do...
I got to talk to my ADO...
No, you don't, Jim. 'Cause if I close this down, you got nothing to make a phone call about. And my guys don't have a week for a Feeb bureaucratic process. Every hour longer they're in there, they risk exposure. So, right here, right now, they're back in or I pull them out and close you down. What's it going to be?
...I didn't want you around the crime scene because it's crawling with federal law enforcement. We don't know who's straight up, who's not...
Recruit us to do what?
He is fine. And we know the jokes. When it gets vengeful, things get messy. When they get messy the wrong people die... Everybody gets it.
Good.
Okay. What'd you spot...?
Three wakes off the back of those boats. Who runs three Sterling engines off a deepV hull?
Yeah?
Jos Yero changedup the drop plan on us. He's grabbed Gina.
Where's the new drop point...?
They'll have surveillance on us. We'll know only at the last moment...
What do you think?
It's a rip and a hit.
Get me Air Support... We'll be airborne and assault the ambush...
You can't.
Just came in. She's still alive.
Safe house is empty... Air Support's set to jump when we know your drop point. Gina?
Yeah.
What's your twenty?
Quarter mile away. We see the lights...
Turn around.
We know these people...!
Grieve elsewhere.
About the Stevens family, I'm sorry. I know you were close to them.
I was the kids' godfather.
And...?
"And" what?
I got to know. There is never any room for "personal"...
Sal Maguda.
He any good?
Oh, yeah...
So what's gonna persuade Montoya to change off Sal Maguda running his deliveries...?
With Sonny. 110%.
Then that's it. Change the mission statement. Crockett stays in. He keeps working up the ladder. The local importers get a pass for the time being.
They'll kill Gina.
They may have already, so we protect the living. Proof she's alive?
She's sending a message. Meth Lab. Trailer park. Anything with interesting antenna arrays...?
There's three between Miami International and the glades. I'm gonna try for her, but this is triage. Protect the maximum number of lives. You need to know that...
...eliminated one. SWAT's on the next two...
Trudy and I are goin' for Gina...
Gin and Tonic. Plymouth or Boodles.
Lemon or lime?
Lemon doesn't go in Gin and Tonics, darlin'. Where ya' from?
Gottingen. That's in Sweden.
You in Miami workin' on your complexion...?
No. I was in Namibia...
Doing...?
With the United Nations High Commission on Refugees. Famine relief.
Okay. We clean him up, untie him and * march him out with a gun in his back. *
Why would I have a gun?
What cop?
This bad cop. He checked you into the * Discount Inn. Then he's been calling you * for days, sticking envelopes under your * door, telling you shit. *
Bullshit. *
His name's James F. Grantz, John G. Check * your tattoos. *
What was it for? *
A load of amphetamine I told him I had.
* Thank you. *
Fuck you; I gave you a reason to live and * you were more than happy to help. You lie * to yourself! You don't want the truth, * the truth is a fucking coward. So you * make up your own truth. *
Beg my forgiveness! Beg my wife's forgiveness before I blow your brains out!
Leonard, you don't have a clue what's going on. You don't even know my name.
Teddy!
I'm Leonard Shelby, I'm from San Francisco and I'm 
That's who you were, you don't know who you are.
Shut your mouth!
Lemme take you down in the basement and show you what you've become.
Did you? I musta forgot. I'm Teddy. *
I guess I've told you about my condition.
This is your car.
You're in a playful mood.
What the hell you want to go there for?
You know it?
Yeah, it's just this fuckedup building. * Why are we going there?
I don't remember.
Yup?
Mr Gammell?
Lenny, is that you?
John Gammell?
Lenny, it's Teddy. Look, stay there, okay? I'm gonna be right over.
I'll be waiting. *
Unfinished business. What made you think I wasn't coming back?
You said you were leaving town.
Things change.
So I see. It's good to see you. My name's Teddy.
Guess I've told you about my condition.
Only every time I see ya! Come on, I'll buy you lunch.
It's my condition. I never know if I've already eaten, so I always just eat small amounts.
You don't have to remember to be hungry.
It's weird, but if you don't eat for a while then your body stops being hungry. You get sort of shaky but you don't realize you haven't eaten. Have I told you about Sammy Jankis?
Yeah, yeah. I heard enough about him. Tell me about John G. You still think he's here, right?
Who?
The guy you're looking for, Johnny G. That's why you haven't left. Am I right?
Why?
Well, the other day you made it sound like you thought somebody might be trying to set you up. Get you to kill the wrong guy.
Yeah, well I go on facts, not recommendations, okay?
Lenny, you can't trust a man's life to your little notes and pictures.
Why?
You really want to find this guy?
He took away the woman I love and he took away my memory. He destroyed everything; my life and my ability to live.
You're living.
Just for revenge. That's what keeps me going. It's all I have.
Discount Inn. Don't know what room; haven't got my key.
Probably left it in your room.
Why are you here?
You called me. You wanted my help. You know, Lenny, I've had more rewarding friendships than this one. Although I do get to keep using the same jokes.
You don't know him?
No! Should I?
I don't think so.
Think so? You don't know? Didn't you write it down?
I might have fallen asleep before I did.
I'm not gonna help you kill this guy, if that's what 
No. No, just let me think for a minute.
Natalie? Natalie who?
Why?
We've got to get him out of here.
He's got to have a car, right? We just take him back to his car and tell him to get the fuck out of town before we kill him.
We can't just walk him out tied up and bleeding.
How'd ya get him in here in the first place?
I don't know.
It must be his. I don't think they'd let someone like me carry a gun.
Fucking hope not.
We probably ought to take his car, you know, teach him a lesson.
Shut it, Teddy.
Easy for you to say, you've got the Jag.
I'll ride with him. You follow.
Give me your keys.
So was he scared?
Yeah. I think it was your sinister mustache that got him.
Fuck you. We shoulda taken his car.
What's wrong with this one?
You like it? Let's trade.
So what are you gonna do now?
I'm gonna ask Natalie what the fuck that was all about.
Natalie who?
Who the fuck are you?
Teddy. Your buddy.
Prove it.
Sammy. Remember Sammy. You told me about Sammy.
Unfinished business.
Lenny, as a buddy, let me inform you. Your business here is very much finished. You're still here because of Natalie.
Who's she?
Why's that?
Because she'll have taken one look at your clothes and your car and started thinking of ways to turn the situation to her advantage. She's already got you staying with her, for fuck's sake.
What do you mean "bad news"?
She's involved with these drug dealers.
She's gonna use you. To protect herself.
From who?
Guys who'll come after her. Guys who'll want to know what happened to her boyfriend. They'll want to make somebody pay. Maybe she'll try and make it you.
Yeah, well maybe she'll make it you. Is that it? You worried she'll use me against you?
She couldn't.
Why not? MEMENTO Blue Revisions  8/27/99
She has no idea who I am.
Why are you following me?
I'm trying to help you. I knew she'd get her claws into you. She doesn't know anything about your investigation, so when she offers to help you, it'll be for her own reasons. Why would I lie? Do not go back to her. Take out a pen, write yourself a note, do not trust her.
Happy now?
I won't be happy until you leave town.
Why?
How long do you think you can hang around here before people start asking questions?
What sort of questions?
The sort of questions you should be asking yourself.
Like what?
Like how'd you get this car? That suit?
I have money.
My wife's death. I used to work in Insurance, we were well covered.
So in your grief you wandered into a Jaguar dealership?
Yes, I do. I don't have amnesia. I remember everything about myself up until the incident. I'm Leonard Shelby, I'm from San Fran 
That's who you were, Lenny. You don't know who you are, who you've become since the incident. You're wandering around, playing detective... and you don't even know how long ago it was.
I didn't sell 
I know, you investigated. Maybe you need to apply some of your investigative skills to yourself.
Yeah, well, thanks for the advice.
Don't go back in there. There's a motel out of town.
How'd you know I was in here?
The Jaguar's out front. You didn't even Bother to put it around back.
Why?
Why? Come on, Leonard, we talked about this. It's not safe f or you to be walking around like this.
Why not?
Envelopes? *
He knows you're no good on the phone, so * he calls you up to bullshit you. * Sometimes you stop taking his calls, so * he slips something under your door to * frighten you into answering your phone * again. He's been pretending to help you. * Feeding you a line of crap about John G. * being some local drug dealer. *
How do you know this?
'Cos he fucking told me. He thinks it's funny. He's laughing at you.
How do you know him?
I'm a snitch. He's a cop from out of town looking for information. The local boys put us in touch.
You're not coming?
Wouldn't be appropriate. *
What's wrong?
There's a guy in here, hurt bad! We gotta get him to a doctor!
He might have fallen down the stairs, I don't know, I don't know what's going on, I'm confused. I have this memory thing  do I know you?
No. Don't worry, I'm a cop. Everything'll be okay. Is he still breathing?
Maybe. Maybe just.
I don't know. See, I have this condition.
Well, I hope it's not as serious as his, 'cos this guy's dead.
This is a drug deal?!
That, and your thing. *
He knew about Sammy. Why would I tell him about Sammy? *
You tell everyone about Sammy. Everyone who'll listen. "Remember Sammy Jankis, remember Sammy Jankis". Great story. Gets better every time you tell it. So you lie to yourself to be happy. Nothing wrong with that  we all do. Who cares if there's a few little things you'd rather not remember?
What the fuck are you talking about?
I dunno... your wife surviving the assault... her not believing about your condition... the doubt tearing her up inside.., the insulin 
That's Sammy, not me! I told you about Sammy 
Like you've told yourself. Over and over. Conditioning yourself to believe. "learning through repetition" 
Sammy let his wife kill herself! Sammy ended up in an institution  ! *
Sammy was a con man. A faker.
I never said he was faking! I never said that!
You exposed him for what he was: a fraud.
I was wrong! That's the whole point! Sammy's wife came to me and 
Sammy didn't have a wife.
My wife wasn't diabetic.
Are you sure?
She wasn't diabetic. You think I don't * know my own wife? What the fuck is wrong * with you? *
I guess I can only make you believe the things you want to be true, huh? Like ol' * Jimmy down there.
But he's not the right guy! *
What difference does it make whether he * was your guy or not? *
It makes all the difference. *
Why? You're never going to know. *
Yes, I will.
No, you won't.
Somehow, I'll know!
You won't remember!
When it's done, I'll know! It'll be different!
I thought so too! I was sure you'd * remember. But you didn't. *
You know, when we found your guy and * killed him. That's right, the real John G. Over a * year ago. I helped you find him. He's * already dead. *
Why do you keep lying to me? *
I'm not. I was the cop assigned to your * wife's death. I believed you, I thought * you deserved the chance for revenge. I helped you find the other guy who was in your bathroom that night. The guy who cracked your skull and fucked your wife. * We found him and you killed him. * MEMENTO  Green Revisions 10499 115A.
So who are you saying he was? *
Just some guy. Does it even matter who? I stopped asking myself why a long time ago. No reason, no conspiracy; just bad fucking luck. A couple of junkies, too * strung out to realize that your wife didn't live alone. When you killed him, * I've never seen you so happy  I was convinced you'd remember. But it didn't stick, like nothing ever sticks. Like this won't stick.
You probably. *
No. You took them out. *
Why would I do that? *
To set yourself a puzzle you won't ever solve. You know how many towns, how many * guys called James G? Or John G? Shit, Leonard, I'm a John G.
Your name's Teddy.
My mother calls me Teddy. I'm John Edward Gammell. Cheer up, there's a lot of John * G's for us to find. All you do is moan. * I'm the one that has to live with what * you've done. I'm the one that has to put * it all together. You just wander around * playing detective. You're living a dream, * kid. A dead wife to pine for and a sense * of purpose to your life. A romantic quest * which you wouldn't end even if I wasn't * in the picture. *
I should kill you. *
Quit it! * * You're not a killer, Lenny. That's why * you're so good at it. *
It is now.
You can't just take it!
How can you read that again?
It's good.
You've read it a hundred times.
I enjoy it.
Yeah, but the pleasure of a book is in wanting to know what happens next 
Don't be a prick. I'm not reading it to annoy you, I enjoy it. Just let me read, please.
Mr. Shelby, you know all about Sammy and you decided that he was faking 
Mrs. Jankis, the company's position isn't that Sammy is "faking" anything, just that his condition can't be shown 
I'm not interested in the company position, Mr. Shelby. I want to know your honest opinion about Sammy.
We shouldn't even be talking this way while the case is still open to appeal.
I'm not appealing the decision.
Then why are you here?
Mrs. Jankis, what do you want from me?
I want you to forget the company you work for for thirty seconds, and tell me if you really think that Sammy is faking his condition.
I believe that Sammy should be physically capable of making new memories.
Thank you.
She seemed to leave happy. I thought I'd helped her.
You don't remember me.
Sorry, I should have explained. You see, I have this condition 
You did explain, Lenny.
Please call me Leonard. My wife called me Lenny.
You told me.
Yeah.
So you have information for me?
Is that what your little note says?
Yes.
Must be tough living life according to a few scraps of paper. Mix up your laundry list and your grocery list, you'll be eating your underwear.
You know him?
No. But the photo on his license looked familiar. I think he's been in the bar before
Have I told you what this man did? *
Yes.
Then you shouldn't have to ask.
But even if you get your revenge, you won't remember it. You won't even know it's happened.
* So I'll take a picture, get a tattoo. * * The world doesn't disappear when you * close your eyes, does it? My actions * still have meaning, even if I can't * remember them. My wife deserves * vengeance, and it doesn't make any * difference whether I know about it. *
Tell me about her again.
Why?
Because you like to remember her. I want to see you enjoy yourself.
She was beautiful. Perfect to me  *
I wrote an address in there, too. Might be useful. It's this abandoned place outside of town. I guy I know used to use it for his bigger deals.
Deals?
It's isolated.
Sounds perfect? What do I owe you?
I wasn't helping you for money.
Sorry.
They treating you alright?
Don't remember.
You know what we have in common?
Sleep okay?
Yeah. You?
Guess I don't have to worry about him anymore.
Who is he? What have you got me into?
Calm down. You're not into anything. It was my problem, you offered no help. It's got nothing to do with your investigation.
That's the problem! How can I find John G. when I don't know what's going on?! How did you get me into this?!
Leonard, you offered to help when you saw what this guy did to me.
How do I know he did that to you?
I came to you straight after he did it. I showed you what he'd done and asked for your help.
So I just take your word?
Yes.
Something feels wrong. I think someone's fucking with me. Trying to get me to kill the wrong guy.
Did you?
What?
Kill him.
Course not.
You decided to help me. Trust yourself. Trust your own judgment. You can question everything, you can never know anything for sure.
There are things you know for sure.
Such as?
I know the feel of the world. I know how this wood will sound when I knock. I know how this glass will feel when I pick it up. Certainties. You think it's knowledge, but it's a kind of memory, a kind you take for granted. I can remember so much. I know the feel of the world, and I know her.
Your wife?
She's gone and the present is trivia, which I can scribble down as notes.
It's not easy to be calm when 
Just relax.
His name was Jimmy.
What happened?
He went to meet somebody and didn't come back.
Who did he go to meet?
What do the police think?
They don't look too hard for guys like Jimmy.
Kill him.
Maybe I can help you find him. I know a * lot of people.
Who?
Who?! Fuck, Leonard! Dodd! Dodd beat the shit out of me.
I did exactly what you told me. I went to * Dodd and I said that I didn't have * Jimmy's money, or any drugs, that this Teddy must have taken everything.
And what did he say?
He didn't believe me. He said that if I don't get him the money tomorrow he's gonna kill me. Then he started hitting me.
Where is he?
What are you gonna do?
I'll go see him.
And?
Give him some bruises of his own and tell him to look for a guy called Teddy.
He'll kill you, Lenny.
My wife used to call me Lenny.
Yeah?
Yeah, I hated it.
This guy's dangerous, let's think of something else.
Me? Why would he be interested in me?
I told him about your car.
Why would you do that?
He was beating the crap out of me! I had to tell him something!
What's wrong?
Somebody's come. Already.
Who?
Calls himself Dodd.
What does he want?
Wants to know what happened to Jimmy. And his money. He thinks I have it. He thinks I took it.
Did you?
No!
What's this all about?
You don't know, do you? You're blissfully ignorant, aren't you?
I have this condition 
What happened?
What happened is that Jimmy went to meet a guy called Teddy. He took a lot of money with him and he didn't come back. Jimmy's partners think I set him up. I don't know whether you know this Teddy or how well 
Neither do I.
Don't protect him.
I'm not.
Help me.
How?
Get rid of Dodd for me.
What?
Kill him. I'll pay you.
What do you think I am?! I'm not gonna kill someone for money.
What then? Love? What would you kill for? For your wife, right?
That's different.
Don't talk about my wife.
I can talk about whoever the fuck I want! You won't even remember what I say! I can tell you that your wife was a fucking whore and we can still be friends!
Calm down.
That's easy for you to say! You can't get scared, you don't remember how, you fucking idiot!
Just take it easy, this isn't my fault.
Maybe it is! How the fuck would you know?! You don't know a fucking thing! You can't get scared, can you get angry?!
Yes.
You pathetic piece of shit. I can say whatever the fuck I want and you won't have a clue, you fucking retard.
Shut the fuck up!
Don't say another fucking word!
About your whore of a wife?
* Depends on if he's here in town. Or if he's moved on. See, I've got all this  *
Can I ask you something?
They're not looking for him.
Why not?
How did they explain what you remembered? The gun and stuff?
* John G. was clever. He took the dead man's gun and replaced it with the sap that he'd hit me with. He left my gun and left the getaway car. He gave the police a complete package. They found a sap with my blood on it in the dead man's hand, and they only found my gun. They didn't need to look for anyone else. I was the only guy who disagreed with the facts, and I had brain damage. *
You can stay here for a couple of days if it'll help.
Thank you.
On the house.
Thanks.
My wife.
Sweet.
Dying.
What?
I remember my wife dying.
Beer, please.
What do you want?
A BEER, please.
Don't just waltz in here dressed like * that and order a beer. *
There's a dress code?
What are you here for?
I'm meeting someone called Natalie.
Well, that's me.
Oh. But haven't we met before?
You tell me.
I don't remember. See, I have no short * term memory. It's not amnesia  *
You're the memory guy?
How do you know about me?
My boyfriend told me about you.
Who's your boyfriend?
Jimmy Grantz. Know him?
Chronic alcoholism ~ one cause of short term memory loss.
Are you Teddy?
My name's Leonard. *
Did Teddy send you?
I don't know.
I don't know. I'm sorry.
You have no idea where you've just come from? What you've just done?
I can't make new memories. Everything * fades, nothing sticks. By the time we finish this conversation I won't remember how it started, and the next time I see you I won't know that I've ever met you before.
So why did you come here?
Jimmy?
What the fuck are you doing here?
Do you remember me?
Yeah, I remember you.
You Jimmy Grantz? *
Expecting any other Jimmy's out here, Memory Man? Where the fuck's Teddy?
You're making a big fucking mistake. My associates are not people you want 
Don't say anything else.
I knew I couldn't trust that fuck 
Quiet!
Why?
I don't want blood on them.
Wait! Did he tell you what I was bringing?
Strip!
Look, there's two hundred grand stashed in the car. Just take it!
You think you can bargain with me?!
Take the money and walk away!
I don't want your fucking money!
What?
Who did this to you?
You did.
I haven't made a strong enough impression.
Don't be too hard on yourself.
I like your car.
Thanks.
Where'd you get it?
Interested in buying one?
I just want you to tell me how you came by that car.
I forget.
Hiya.
I'm Mr. Shelby from 304.
What can I do for you, Leonard?
I'm sorry... um... ?
Burt.
Burt, I'm not sure, but I may have asked you to hold my calls  MEMENTO Blue Revisions  8/27/99
You don't know?
I think I may have. I'm not good on the phone.
You said you like to look people in the eye when you talk to them. Don't you remember?
That's the thing. I have this condition.
Condition?
I have no memory.
Amnesia?
No. It's different. I have no shortterm memory. I know who I am and all about myself, but since my injury I can't make any new memories. Everything fades. If we talk for too long, I'll forget how we started. I don't know if we've ever met before, and the next time I see you I won't remember this conversation. So if I seem strange or rude, that's probably...
My wife.
What's it like?
Like waking. Like you always just woke up. *
That must suck. All... backwards. *
How long have I been here?
Couple days.
So you're holding my calls?
As requested.
What makes you think he's my friend?
Seen you together, that's all.
He's not my friend, Burt. But if he calls, or if he turns up here, then you give me a call in my room, okay?
I'm sorry, I think I'm checked in here, But I've misplaced my key.
Hi, Leonard.
Shit. Wrong room.
What?
This isn't your room. You're in 304. I Fucked up.
This isn't my room?
No, let's go.
Then why is this my handwriting?
This was your room. You're up in 304 now.
When was I in here?
Last week. Then I rented you another one On top of this.
Why?
Business is slow. I told my boss about You, about your condition. He told me to Try and rent you another room.
Why didn't you clean it out? *
You're still paying for it. It's still Your room.
So how many rooms am I checked into in this dump?
Just two. So far. *
Well, at least you're being honest about cheating me.
Yeah, well you're not gonna remember, anyway.
You don't have to be that honest, Burt.
Leonard.
I'm sorry, I think I'm checked in here, but I've misplaced my key.
Hi, Leonard.
Leonard, it's Burt from the front desk.
Yeah?
I know you said you didn't want any calls...
That's right I did, didn't I?
Yeah, but there's a call for you from this guy. He's a cop.
A cop?
And he says you're gonna wanna hear what he's got to say. *
* I'm not too good on the phone. I need to * look people in the eye when I talk to * them. *
Well, what then?
It's simple, you just go to the bathroom.
Slam it?
Just loud enough to wake me up.
That's it?
That's it.
Should I wear it?
No. Just leave the stuff lying around as if it were yours. Like you just took it off or something.
Whatever gets you off.
You read it off your fucking photo. You don't know me, you don't even know who you are.
MEMENTO Pink Revisions  9/7/99
30.
Because you're relying on them alone. You Don't remember what you've discovered or how. Your notes might be unreliable.
47.
I think I know her.
66.
Sense of humour went with the memory, huh? You know why you're still here, don't you?
69.
From what?
21.
It's not your fault. See, you have this condition...
38.
This has nothing to do with you. You helped me out, and I'm grateful.
39.
Relax a little, okay? Take off your jacket.
78.
I know about your fucking condition, Leonard! I probably know more about it than you do! You don't have a fucking clue about anything else!
79.
Not to me! I wasn't fucking married to her!
MEMENTO Pink Revisions  9/7/99 85.
I've got to get back for the evening shift, so make yourself at home, watch T.V., whatever. Just grab a blanket and pillow off the bed. I never need them all anyway.
Good morning, I was talking kind of loud there, sorry.
Not at all. It was fascinating.
Oh yeah? What was 'fascinating' about it?
You and 'Honey'?
My kid sister. She just broke up with her boyfriend and she's thinking about dropping out of law school.
I'm sorry 
Nothing to be sorry about. That's the way with men and women, isn't it?
What's the way?
Nothing lasts.
I agree 
Why?
I was just being agreeable, now I've got to explain why?
I'm not trying to sharpshoot you, but that 'nothing lasts' stuff, that's what was the trouble with Honey's guy. He was fooling around and Honey caught him at it. One girlfriend wasn't enough for him.
So you're a onegirl guy?
Damn right. Looking for her right now. Who knows? You might be her.
How'd you know?
Everybody's a doctor around here. This apartment house is all green pajamas and slippers. The guy I'm waiting for to vacate is a doctor. What kind of doctor?
Me? Internal medicine.
So if I needed a doctor, you could be it?
I could be her.
'Her'.
Yes, I could. I have an office in the hospital.
 This is my lucky day. I arrive in this big bad city and I not only find a doctor, a beautiful woman as well.
Not at all.
How 'bout another cup of coffee?
I've got patients coming in 
And I want to get into my apartment and go to work. Please, what do you say, another cup of coffee?
...It's kind of a pro bono job.
'Pro bono'. That means doing good  Going to be doing good all your life?
I know what you're saying. Doesn't pay very well. Depends on the woman I marry. Maybe she'd like a bigger house, a better car, lotsa kids, college doesn't come cheap 
You'd give up what you want for the woman you marry?
I would.
You'll have a hard time finding a woman like that these days 
You never know. Lightning could strike.
I've got to go 
Did I say something wrong?
No, it was so right it scares me.
I've been thinking... I don't want you to be my doctor. Because I don't want you to examine me.
Why?
Because I like you so much. You have coffee here every morning, don't you? If I came by, could you give me the name of a doctor?
Sure, I'll give you the name of a doctor. ...And I don't want to examine you.
Why not?
Because I like you so much. Now I've got to go.
You said you liked me.
No 
Y'didn't?
...We know so little about each other.
But we've got time.
Good morning, Dad.
Hi, honey.
Drew's aboard?
He wanted to ride back down with you. Now sit and relax, get some thing in that flat tummy of yours 
Will you relax? I know it is a big deal day 
How did you know?
Drew told me.
Does Drew tell you everything?
I hope so.
You like him, don't you?
Yeah. I guess so.
I don't like to interfere.
...Then don't.
Not my birthday again?
You're only sixfive once.
Thank God. Now could we go? Let's get this day started.
I thought you were in a meeting?
I am. With you.
...There's a start for a meeting.
I know it's none of my business 
Do you love Drew?
You mean like you loved Mom?
Forget about me and Mom  are you going to marry him?
Probably.
Don't get carried away.
Uh oh 
Susan, you're a hell of a woman. You've got a great career, you're beautiful 
And I'm your daughter and no man will ever be good enough for me.
Well, I wasn't going to say that 
What were you going to say?
Listen, I'm crazy about the guy  He's smart, he's aggressive, he could carry Parrish Communications into the 21st century and me along with it.
So what's wrong with that?
That's for me. I'm talking about you. It's not so much what you say about Drew, it's what you don't say.
You're not listening 
Oh yes, I am. Not an ounce of excitement, not a whisper of a thrill, this relationship has all the passion of a pair of titmice.
Don't get dirty, Dad 
Well, it worries me. I want you to get swept away. I want you to levitate. I want you to sing with rapture and dance like a dervish.
That's all?
Be deliriously happy. Or at least leave yourself open to be.
'Be deliriously happy'. I'm going to do my upmost 
I know it's a cornball thing but love is passion, obsession, someone you can't live without. If you don't start with that, what are you going to end up with? I say fall head over heels. Find someone you can love like crazy and who'll love you the same way back. And how do you find him? Forget your head and listen to your heart. I'm not hearing any heart. Run the risk, if you get hurt, you'll come back. Because, the truth is there is no sense living your life without this. To make the journey and not fall deeply in love  well, you haven't lived a life at all. You have to try. Because if you haven't tried, you haven't lived.
Bravo.
Aw, you're tough.
I'm sorry. But give it to me again. The short version.
Stay open. Who knows? Lightning could strike.
I won't. And when I tell Drew about it, he won't either.
You won't tell him, and even if you did, he'd clock it and punch it into his laptop in order to pull out some key phrases when he gives the Commencement Speech at Wharton.
You're terrible.
I know. But I'm the only father you've got.
Thank God.
He doesn't care. But thanks anyway.
Daddy, what's the matter?
Nothing. I'm sorry.
What is it, Daddy ?
Nothing.
Are you okay?
AOkay. Got my gloves on, my ears pricked. I'm ready for action.
Well, go get 'em, Pops.
Yer damn right.
You know each other?
We've met.
What?!
 This morning. The Corinth Coffee Shop. He was looking for a doctor.
Uh  will that hold you, Joe?
Incidentally, 'Joe' what?
Funny, I don't get that feeling. Maybe it's because you found out I'm Bill Parrish's daughter.
Cut it out, Susan. You and I've got to talk. Big day tomorrow, everybody. Joe, let's go.
It'll come back, Daddy.
Will it?...
That was wonderful.
Yeah, it's good to get together.
Do you mind if I raise a little caution flag?
Raise away.
What is the nature of your interest in Joe?
Well, remember how you told me about "lightning striking"? The nature of it's in there somewhere.
I won't say you may be getting onto shaken ground 
Then what will you say?
I don't think this is the lightning you are looking for. Drew's a good man. I know I didn't seem to be completely in his corner before, but I've come to appreciate 
Now we love Drew and Joe in verbo ten? What's going on?
Nothing.
When you say 'nothing' that way, it's not nothing.
Then what is it?
It's something.
Where's Joe?
Joe?
Where is he?
I don't know.
Because I was sitting in a staff meeting, incredibly bored, my mind kept wandering and the only place it landed was  Joe.
I don't understand.
Love. Passion. Obsession, all those things you told me to wait for. Well, they've arrived.
This is crazy 
Why? A man appears at your side, almost never leaves it, you clearly trust him, depend on him, I sense you value him deeply, why aren't those things good enough for me?
You don't know anything about Joe 
What are you afraid of, Dad? That I'll fall head over heels for Joe  well, I have  as you did with Mom. That's always been standard, whether you like or not.
Susan, I don't think Joe is going to be with us long.
Where's he going?
I don't know, I can't say 
C'mon! The guy's working with you. You always know chapter and verse about everyone who works 
In this case, I can't. I  uh  I just can't help you. I only would tell you  that with Joe, you are on very, very dangerous ground.
I love him.
I don't care if you love him! I'm telling you he's no good for you!
What a night.
I'm having a helluva time.
You were right about Joe, he is going somewhere 
I'm sorry.
Are you relieved?
Yes, but 
But what?
I want you to know how much I love you. That you've given a meaning to my life that I had no right to expect, and that no one can ever take from me.
Daddy 
No  I love you so much and I want you to promise me something. I don't want you to ever worry about me. If anything should happen, I'm going to be fine and everything's going to be all right.  And I have no regrets.
I love you, Daddy 
That's why it's okay.
I'm still here. Would you like to dance with me, Susan?
Oh, yes 
If you don't mind dancing with an old fogey like me.
Oh, Dad, you're not old. You'll never be old.
What was that?
The fireworks are about to start.
Why don't we let it rest for the moment? Give it some air?
Well said, Eddie. Mr. Black, shall we?
...It's not over, 'til it's over.
Please, Eddie, no 'Fat Lady Sings" shit.
I still sense some doubt in this group, we could turn it around. You'll be up in the country?
Yes, the big 'celebration' of my mandatory retirement birthday. You're an honored guest, Eddie.
I'm going to stick it out here. We still have a shot.
Eddie?
Yeah  Bill  How are you? You okay?
Fine, fine. Big doing up here. Why are you still down here?
The Board's working through the weekend, tying up the loose ends on this damn thing. But I want to give it one more try, I'm still holding out some hope.
Eddie, hold out all the hope you want but, I promise you, it's hope less, it's over. Come on up, let's get drunk, if I had your shoulder to lean on I might actually enjoy this 
No, I'm going to stay down here, keep my finger in the dike and maybe by Monday, the waters could recede.
If you're trying to show me lay downinfrontofthebus loyalty, forget it.
Sorry, Bill, have a drink, eat your cake, blow out the candles and make a wish. Talk to you Monday. Okay?
Okay, Eddie  anyway, thanks for the memory.
We're all here, Bill 
I appreciate this, Eddie, members of the Board, this will just take a minute of your time. As the custo dians of the company, you may re ceive information from what follows that is valuable to you   or not. Either way, thanks.
We're all ears.
Well, thank you, that's great, but it's more than I bargained for. I just wanted to set the record straight.
But we want you back, Bill. Mean while, enjoy your party, celebrate, we'll attend to the nasty details. And Mr. Black, may we say thank you.
Hi, Bill 
Good morning, Quince.
How're you doing?
I'm doing great. You ready?
I am, this is it. B Day.
How's that, Quince?
Bontecou Day. Going to close with Big John  Look at you, Bill, all cool as a cat and over at Bontecou's, I'll bet he's shitting in his pants.
...I read you all the way on the Bontecou thing, and I know where you're coming from. And I'm with you a hundred and one percent.
Thank you, Quince.
But I've got to tell you, if mergers are in the wild, I've got some great prospects I've developed. I want to talk to you about them next week.
Next week?
Yeah. Or the week after.
No, anything is possible. It's up to Joe.
Joe, you don't know how glad I am you're aboard. Anybody who can take some of the weight off the old man, I'm in his corner.
This is great, honey. The orange. Has it got a little vodka in it? Like that Finnish stuff, orange vodka  Put your lips around this one, Bill. It's out of this world.
No thank you, Quince. I'm sorry, honey. I'm no good at this. Why don't you choose whatever cake you like?
But he does give a shit. Don't you, Bill?
Yeah, I give a shit.
See. There. What'd I tell you?
This one.
The vodka. What'd I tell you?
...what can I say after I say that I'm sorry? I zipped when I should've zagged, I opened my big mouth one too many times, everything got all twisted 
It's okay, Quince. I understand. You've always meant well and I appreciate that. Sometimes things just turn out  wrong.
Come in, Joe  I want to thank you  okay, Bill?
Sure.
Joe knew the whole story. I told him. It was his idea that I come clean. I mean I wanted to come clean but he gave me a pair of balls, you know what I mean?
Yes, I believe I do.
All in all, what Bill wants to do is build the golden bridge to Drew with no hard feelings.
You think Drew will go for it?
Quince, I've got confidence in you.
Sir, I'll deliver the package.
'...I know, it's none of my business.'
What?
'Yes' what?
'Yes' is the answer to your question.
I didn't ask any question.
I believe you did.
I think you know 
I don't!
Try. Because 'if you haven't tried, you haven't lived'.
What are you talking about?
What you were talking about.
Are you giving me orders?
I'm sorry, I 
No, you're not. You're trying to 'handle' the situation but this is the one situation you knew you never could handle.
Where are you? Are you there?
It's enough now.
Please. Talk to me 
There's going to be plenty of time for that.
What do you mean?!
I think you know 
Know what? Know what, goddammit!
Where are you?
I'm here.
What is this, a joke, right? Some kind of elaborate practical joke? At my 40th reunion, we delivered a casket to the Class president's hotel room and 
Quiet.
The great Bill Parrish at a loss for words? The man from whose lips fall 'rapture' and 'passion' and 'obses sion'...all those admonitions about being 'deliberately happy', what there is no sense 'living your life without...', all the sparks and energy you give off, the rosy advice you dispense in round, pearshaped tones 
What the hell is this? Who are you?
Just think of millenniums multiplied by aeons compounded by infinity, I've been around that long, but it's only recently that your affairs here have piqued my interest. Call it boredom, the natural curiosity of me, the most lasting and significant element in existence has come to see you.
About what?
I want to have a look around before I take you.
'Take me'...? Where?
It requires competence, wisdom, experience  all those things they say about you in testimonials  and you're the one.
'The one' to do what?
Show me around. Be my guide. And in return, you get...
Get what?
Time.
What the hell are you talking about?
Watch it!
I'm sorry 
In return you'll receive minuets, days, weeks, I'm not going to go into details ... what matters is that I stay interested.
Yes what?
'Yes' is the answer to your ques tion.
What question?
Bill. Come on. The question. The question you've been asking yourself with increased regularity, at odd moments, panting through the extra game of handball, when you ran for the plane in Delhi, when you sat up in bed last night and hit the floor in the office this morning. The question that is in the back of your throat, choking the blood to your brain, ringing in the ears over and over as you put it to yourself 
The 'question' 
Yes, Bill. The question.
Am I dreaming this? Are you a dream?
I am not a dream.
You're coming to 'take me'. What is that? Who the hell are you?
You are ?
'...Yes '
Yes.
Death!
That's me.
You're not Death. You're just a kid in a jacket and a pair of pants.
The jacket and the pair of pants came with the body I took. Let me ask your opinion. Do I blend in?
You want me to be your guide ?
You fill the bill, Bill.
I do? How long will you be staying?
You should hope quite a while.
And then ?
This is crazy  you're not going to eat dinner with us.
Bill, I am eating dinner with you. And your family. And that's what we're doing. It's not open for discussion. Nothing is. Don't you understand?
Excuse me? Could I say something?
Of course.
It just occurred to me 
Speak up, please.
When I introduce you, if I say who you are, I don't think anyone will stay for dinner.
Then don't.
No 
Joe knows what you're saying, just being polite 
Joe, that's the kitchen.
Thank you.
...I'm sorry, I'm a little discon certed, that stuff between you and Susan  uh  threw me.
'Threw' you? Where?
Shook me up. I mean that you knew her and everything 
I didn't know her. The body I took knew her. The man she met in the coffee shop this morning. I  uh  took him.
So there's nothing between you and Susan?
No.
I wish you had said something to me about staying here 
It hadn't occurred to me until then. I was just having such a wonderful time  Besides, isn't this what I'm here for?
What a good idea.
Thank you. Would you like the man's name?
No.
If there is anything else, don't hesitate 
I won't.
How long have I got?
You're putting me on the spot, Bill.
When you go, I go.
That's the best I can do. ...but minutebyminute, I find myself lingering.
...I just saw my doctor, he told me everything was fine.
Your doctor? Did your doctor say anything about a tiny, undetectable hole in your aorta? Did he mention an irreparab ly weak vein in the further reaches of your famous brain? Were there any prognostications about the possibil ilites of a fatal collision on a golf cart or suffocating in an avalanche on a ski vacation in Gstaad?
No 
I hope you realize, Bill...in your office this morning, that was your time.
Closer than that.
Well, thank you for letting me know.
Not at all.
And  uh  I guess, 'goodnight'.
Good night to you, Bill.
Good morning.
Good morning, Bill.
How are you? How're you feeling?
'Feeling'? I feel fine. How do you feel?
Um  well, I didn't sleep too well. This is crazy. This is the left field thing of all time. What do I do? What do I tell my family?
Oh, I wouldn't tell them anything, Bill. You'll ruin the good start we had last night. I felt as if I were being treated like a person. 'Joe' this and 'Joe' that  a nice smile  Quince passed me the rolls  no 'rapture' or 'passion' or any of those mighty things you seem so intent on imparting, but I am cer tain, should you  uh  say  uh  who I am  our adventure would end abruptly.
And what?
And I won't tell anyone who you are.
Sounds fair enough.
It is a deal?
A 'deal'?
You give your word, I give mine  that we'll do what we say. It's a truth exchanged between two people.
Bill 
Yes?
You've got a deal.
When you were shaving this morning, you weren't just shaving, right?
What do you mean?
You were hatching ideas, making plans, arriving at decisions, right?
I guess so.
So you understand the concept then. When you're busy here, your work, what your task is, is being executed elsewhere.
Of course.
So you've grasped the idea. Con gratulations. Now multiply it by infinity and take it to the depth of forever, and you still will have barely a glimpse of what I am talking about.
Joe ?
Yes, Bill.
How about giving a guy a break?
Make an exception?
There's one to every rule.
Not this.
 I don't deserve this. I'm still young, this is not my time 
That's what everybody says.
I'm not everybody.
That's what everybody says.
I want to live.
I understand.
What's it like?
What do you mean?
What's it like where I'm going?
Can you keep a secret?
Yes.
So can I.
Perhaps you would like to wait in my office ?
No.
What I'm trying to say is this is a Board meeting and you are not a mem ber of the Board.
I'm sure you'll see to it that it won't be a problem.
Would you like to sit down, Joe?
Yes.
 What's the deal here? Are you going to be breathing down my neck right 'til the very end?
I don't understand.
...I'd like to be alone for a while.
Are you sad, Bill?
Yes, I am. There's a research lib rary on the fourth floor. Why don't you go down and read some magazines?
You're not thinking of going some where, are you, Bill?
Joe, could I ask you to take a walk? Buy a tie or something. I know I'll be seeing you.
Of course.
Now I'd like to be alone.
Oh. Okay.
Jennifer, give Mr. Black a map of the city.
No thank you, Bill. I can manage.
Are you going to eat your lunch
It's all yours.
Excellent. What is it?
Cold lamb sandwich with cilantro. A little Coleman's mustard.
Truly  uh  splendid.
Glad you like it. My wife turned me onto cold lamb sandwiches. Joan  that was my wife 
Uhhuh.
Cold lamb sandwiches  not as chewy as roast beef, not as boring as chicken. She knew stuff like that.
And more.
Why didn't you stop me?
Well...I don't know.
I thought you'd heard a trillion times 
This part I'm interested in.
Dinner? Absolutely.
Absolutely.
Why, at this juncture, are you letting yourself be so concerned by business matters?
I don't want anybody buying up my life's work and turning it into something it wasn't meant to be. A man wants to leave something behind. And he wants it left behind the way he made it. And he wants it to be run the way he run it  with a sense of honor, of dedication, of truth. Okay?
Okay.
And I don't need your goddamn permis sion either! You! Drew! I don't need anyone to tell me how to run my life.
Easy, Bill. You'll give yourself a heart attack and ruin my vacation.
Why did you go to the hospital?
I don't know.
You were just curious?
I guess...
About Susan?
I wouldn't put it that way.
What way would you put it?
You tell me, Bill.
How about you telling me? When I ask a simple question, I expect a straight answer. That's what I'm used to. Anybody who doesn't give it to me, I fire.
Are you going to fire me, Bill?
Hello, Bill.
Hello. Would you like to join me, Quince and Allison for a nightcap?
Um  not right now.
Okay. Goodnight.
Goodnight.
I'm sorry, Bill 
That's okay.
What's okay?
Just a manner of speaking.
What 'okay' is, it's 'okay' it's over. We've got bigger fish to fry, don't we, Joe?
'Fish'?
Never mind. I'm tired. I'm going to take a nap.
I'm not hungry.
Then I can't help you.
I couldn't sleep.
I'm sorry to hear that.
Yes, I saw you see me.
Well, you're at the wrong place at the wrong time with the wrong woman.
I'll be the judge of that.
I'm her father!
With all due respect, Bill, I'm not asking your permission.
Well, you goddam well should. You walk into my life, give me the worst news a guy can get, have me dancing on the heads of pins with my busi ness and with my family, and now you're spooning with my daughter.
'Spooning'?
Yes, and stop repeating everything I say, and turning it into a question. Spooning, fooling around, God knows what. You arrive on the scene  why you picked me, I still don't under stand 
I picked you for your verve, your excellence, and for your ability to  how shall I say  instruct. You've lived a firstrate life. And I find it eminently usable.
You're violating the laws of the universe.
This universe?
Any universe that exists or ever existed. You may be the pro, Joe. But I know who you are. And you're all fucked up.
I don't like your tone, and I don't like your references.
And I don't give a shit.
May I remind you this is not just a dispute with a putative suitor, this is me. So watch it...Bill.
Cut the 'Bill' crap out  you sonofabitch.
I told you, 'watch it'.
Uh 
Yes?
 I have the feeling that, all in all, what I made this voyage for  has served its purpose.
What are you saying, that it's time to go?
You are?
Yeah.
Good. Tomorrow, after the party.
Thanks.
Not at all.
What the hell do you care?
I was just asking, Bill.
You 'want to know', I'll tell you. You're looking at a man who tonight is not about to walk through the Valley of the Shadow of Death, he's galloping into it. And the same time, the business he built with his own hands and his own head is being commandeered by a couple of cheap pirates. And, oh yes, I almost forgot, my daughter's fallen in love with Death.
 And I'm in love with your daughter.
Say again?
I'm in love with your daughter, and I'm taking her with me tonight.
You're what?
I think you heard me, Bill.
You're not taking Susan anywhere. And what the hell does that mean anyway?
I'm sorry, Bill 
Susan is my daughter, she has a wonderful life ahead of her and you're going to deprive her of it and you're telling me you're sorry? Well, I'm sorry, apology not accepted.
I love her, Bill. She is all that I ever wanted, and I've never wanted for anything because I've never wanted anything before, if you can understand.
How perfect for you  to take whatever you want because it pleases you. It's not love 
Then what is it?
Some aimless infatuation in which, for the moment, you feel like in dulging. It's missing everything that matters.
Which is what?
Trust, responsibility, taking the weight, for your choices and feel ings and spending the rest of your life living up to them. And above all, not hurting the object of your love.
So that's what love is?
Multiply it by infinity and take it to the death of forever and you will still have barely a glimpse of what I am talking about.
Those were my words, Bill.
Well, they're mine now.
Susan wants to come. She says she's in love with me.
With you?! Who is 'you'? Did you tell her who you are?
No.
Does she know where she's going?
I don't like what you're saying.
I don't expect you to.
Are you threatening me?
I certainly hope so  I loved Susan from the moment she was born, and I love her now, and every minute in between, and what I dream of is a man who will discover her and she will discover a man who will love her, who is worthy of her, who is of this world, of this time and has the grace and compassion and fortitude to walk beside her as she makes her way through this beautiful thing called life.
Okay.
Get him in here.
Joe, don't do this 
It's time to put this person where he belongs.
It's not necessary, Joe. Drew's going to step aside 
I told you to shut up.
Prepare yourself, Drew  I am 
He is 
I'll take it from here  I am 
 An IRS man.
The Treasury Department asked my cooperation in his undercover investigation of John Bontecou. They were convinced that Bontecou, on past deals, had structured his mergers and acquisitions in sus picious and complicated ways so as to evade paying the taxes he is liable for. The IRS wanted to go after him, and this deal offered them the opportunity. I agreed to cooperate.
And we're very grateful.
Moreover, Agent Joe Black here  of course that's not his real name  smelled out your involvement, Drew. He developed evidence you were working both sides of the fence. Unfortunately, that's known as a conflict of interest 
Undisclosed conflict of interest 
An offense 
An indictable offense.
Happy Birthday, Bill.
Thank you.
Not exactly.
I guess you have your reasons.
Yes.
Yes.
That's life. What can I tell you?
What are you doing here?
I'm lost.
 Can't seem to escape you today.
I'm sorry.
'Big'?
You appear at his side outofthe blue, stay at his house, eat dinner with his family, it's practically a first. You're in the redhot center of big business and I thought you were a regular Joe.
I am Joe.
Not the one I met this morning, hit ting on me in as nice a way as I've been hit on in a long time, but the moment you find out I'm my Dad's daughter, you act like a stranger.
That is not my intention.
What are your intentions? To make little dreams in coffee shops, turn a woman's head, and I don't mind admitting it was turned, I liked it, but ten hours later I feel like a fool. I don't get it. You, my father, here in this house, the cof fee shop, it's making me upset, and I don't like being upset. Who are you anyway? And what are you eating?
Peanut butter.
You act like you never had peanut butter before 
I haven't.
 What kind of childhood did you have?
Do you love Drew?
Come again?
When you put your mouth to his, Susan, it seems a frequent thing.
Drew is none of your damn business. Nor is where I put my mouth.
I'm sorry. Do you live here?
No, Joe, I'm swimming here. Then I'm going home.
I guess what I'm trying to say is  I'd like us to be friends.
I've got plenty of friends.
I don't have any.
I can see why.
Yes ?
I have a certain function to per form, and that seems to take all of my time. Bu sometimes  uh  I speculate  uh  I haven't left room for  uh  anything else.
I'm sorry to say I know what you're saying.
Susan?
Yes?
Did you know you have a wet spot on your shoulder?
Goodnight, Joe.
Goodnight to you, Susan.
Yes?
I think you want to go to the west wing. Through there.
Joe 
How nice you look. Is that your uniform?
Oh goodness, no.
Then why are you here, Joe?
I came to see you.
I don't have any time to see you now. I'm doing grand rounds and then I'm examining backtoback patients until dinner and then 
Very well, I'll watch.
Watch me do what?
Whatever you do.
That's impossible. I'm a doctor, I'm 
And I'll be a visitor.
Patients have visitors, not doctors.
I don't mind 
She's in a great deal of pain.
Yes.
Joe, I'm with Drew.
Not now.
I have to go, I'm sorry to say 
Be sorry for nothing.
I wanted to apologize, Susan 
I thought you said 'Be sorry for nothing'.
Well, now I am sorry. For intruding on you this afternoon.
It wasn't an intrusion. And if it was, it turned out to be welcome.
I appreciate you 
Excuse me?
I mean I appreciate that.
And I appreciate you, too.
Why do you love peanut butter so much?
I don't know.
I adore things like that....food I can't do without. Don't you?
Yes...
It comforts you, doesn't it?
Yes...I've found that it does.
I'm very concerned about the woman you attended to today.
I am, too.
Has her pain abated?
We're doing what we can for her. But it doesn't look good.
I'm sorry to hear that.
How long have you been standing there?
I don't like the way Drew spoken to you. But I feel better about it now because of the way you spoke back.
Why?
Because guys who never say anything about themselves are always married.
No, I'm not.
Girlfriend?
No.
Gay?
No.
Where are you going?
To bed.
'To bed'?
Yes. I'm tired.
You first.
Why don't you get off his case?
Almost.
I said get out.
I'm sorry about 
Please. We don't need to talk about Drew.
I love your smell.
 I guess you haven't.
Thank you.
It was everything.
 Could you?
Never tried, 'til now. Joe, may I kiss you?
Why, yes. Thank you.
Yes?
I don't know who you are.
Well...I'm  uh, Joe. And you're Susan. And I  uh  have this weak feeling in my knees 
And is your heart beating strangely?
Faster. And I want the scent from underneath your ears and the taste of your lips and the touch of your tongue to stay with me  forever.
You're here?
I am.
I just thought I'd drop by, scrounge a little lunch, I was in the neigh borhood 
How beautiful.
He's taking a nap.
He must be tired  this Bontecou thing 
Yes, he's tired. I believe so.
...No.
Maybe it's the draft through the door.
Did you like making love to me?
I loved it.
More than you love peanut butter?
Yes!
Where are you going?
Nowhere? I'm...here.
For how long?
Oh, I hope a long, long time.
I like you in a black tie.
I love you in an evening gown.
It beats a surgical, doesn't it?
Yes. Your father and I, our time together has come to an end.
Where are you going?
Well  I 
And you can't tell me who you are.
I can tell you the when part. Tonight.
It gets worse.
No worse than it gets for me. I'm in love with a woman whom I don't want to leave.
Then don't.
We know so little about each other 
We know all that we need to know 
But there's so much to tell you 
Don't. That will come later.
Will it?
Lightning struck. We caught it in a bottle. Don't let it out. I want to be with you, Joe 
What will we do?
'Love will find out the way'.
'Love will find out the way'?
It's a saying.
I believe that, don't you?
Yes, that's why I said it.
Did I say that?
And I said you'd have a hard time finding a woman like that.
The 'coffee shop' 
 That was the place... and you were the guy.
I  uh 
You want me to wait for you, you'll be back 
I'm still here.
But you're not. You're somewhere else. You're someone else 
Tell me you love me  tell me you love me now 
I love you now, I'll love you always 
Hold me 
Susan 
 Yes?
Thank you for loving me.
That's it?
Well, I don't know what else to say. It's a helluva party 
You think so?
Yeah...and you're the prettier thing here.
'Joe Black'. Won fifteen and lost two for the Brooklyn Dodgers in 1952.
Yes?
You bet. I'm king of my Rotisserie League.
Are you?
How long you here, Joe?
As long as it takes.
Black.
Hey, this is fun.
Don't bother asking, we already tried.
It's so very nice to see you again.
That's very gracious of you, Quince.
No problem. I'll leave you two alone. I can tell you guys have something on the fire 
Cirrhosis of the liver is the fifth leading killer of adult Western males.
I didn't know that.
On the other hand, Winston Churchill drank a bottle of cognac a day and lived until he was ninetyone.
You're an original, Joe. A little hard to figure, maybe...
And you're a nice man, Quince.
Thanks.
You're welcome.
C'mon, have a drink. You look like you need one bad as me.
Do I? I'm a little confused.
Confused, huh? About what?
Love.
'Love'? Oh, man, I've got troubles of my own.
You love Allison, don't you?
Oh yes, I do.
How did you meet?
I was a worldclass loser and she was a happy, little rich girl  and for some reason she took me in.
But she loves you?
Because there's nothing we don't know about each other and it's okay. I mean the deeper, darkest secrets  they don't matter.
'The deepest, darkest secrets '?
Yeah, it's like you know every inch of each other's souls  and then you're free.
What do you mean 'free'?
Free to love each other. Com pletely. Totally. No fear.
Oh yes, you are one of my favorites.
What would you say if you knew it was me who brought down Bill Parrish? I told Drew and the Board that Bill depended on you. Drew led me on, but I had no business telling him in the first place. He was setting up Bill from day one. Drew and Bontecou are going to chop up the company and sell it off for parts. Bontecou was outside, Drew was Mr. Inside. And I was the fool who made it all happen. Oh God, what do I do?
You think so? How do you know?
Because that's the kind of man Bill Parrish is.
Do you think I should wait to tell him 'till after the party?
No.
Good morning, Mr. Parrish.
Hi, Jennifer.
I've been buzzing you, Mr. Parrish. Are you all right?
Sure.
Lunch is 'in' today, have you given it any thought _
No. Nothing.
Nothing?
 And call my family, I'd like them to come over for dinner tonight.
Didn't the family get together last night ?
Jennifer.
Of course, Mr. Parrish. Right away.
Good morning, Mr. Parrish.
Good morning, Jennifer.
The Board is waiting.
What?
Didn't you call a Board meeting?
Obeah.
Obeah evil. I not evil.
What you then?
I from dat nex' place.
You wait here'n to take us? Like you bus driver to dere?
No, no. I on holiday.
Some spot you pick.
I nuttin' to do wi' dat.
Make it go 'way.
Doctor lady make it irey.
Not dis pain. Dis pain tru an' tru. Make it go 'way.
Can't, sistah.
Can, mistah. Take me to dat nex' place.
Not time yet.
Make it time.
Don' be facety, woman.
None facety, mistah. You come for me? Dat's good news.
No, I come to see Doctor.
Doctor? What could be wrong wit' you?
Nuthin'.
Oh, you come to see Doctor Lady?
Yes.
My Doctor Lady?
Mine, too.
Yah.
You loved back?
I am.
She knows you real self?
She knows how she feel.
Rass!
Don' need you okayin'.
Schoolboy tings is you head. Badness for you, badness for her, badness for me, lyin' here tumor, big as breadfruit, poison my inners an' waiting.
Brung you flowers and all I gettin's facety back.
Only flowers I wan' see's one's over my peaceful self restin' in the dutty.
Can do no right by people. Come to take, you wan' to stay, leave you stay, you wan' to go. Rahtid!
Hey, this is it, the hour approach es, I'm getting all excited. So what do you think, is it   just the 'Executive Committee' or could you guys use me?
Quince, m'man, thanks for the offer, but it's all set for just me and Bill. More people might 
I know. Gum up the works.
You're overthinking it 
I don't think they're ordinary. I love keychains.
Well, I guess he's found one.
Joe, you do get around.
...I know you're down, but you know when you're down, Drew, there's no place to go but up.
Thanks, Quince.
Never mind Bontecou. I've got some other merger possibilities up my sleeve, and I'm putting them to see old man.
Are you?
We'll do it together. I'll clue you in. Timing's got to be right. The old man says it's up to Joe.
'It's up to Joe'? Those were his words?
Yeah.
'It's up to Joe', huh?
Yeah, that's what he said.
Well, that's very interesting.
I thought so, too. Joe's a neat guy.
Yeah. Neat.
I'd like to come, too. See Susan strut her stuff.
You're on, Quincee. Destination Hospital. Joe, you'll be the Tour Guide. Okay? How's that sound to you?
Well, I'm happy to tell you I've got good news. As I was telling Drew, I've been making a little hay while the Bontecou sun was shining  two, possibly three new and boiling hot prospects for merger.
How did Bill react to the leads you've developed?
He was interested.
 But he was concerned about the timing?
The timing  yes. He says it's up to Joe.
'It's up to Joe'?
That's what he said.
What have you done? You've gotten the old man fired!
That we did. Thanks to you. He was wobbling, mind you, but you spplied the coup de grace.
I'm going to put a stop to this!
Quince, you can't unscramble scrambled eggs.
But I didn't mean to do it!
The train's left the station, pal, and you're aboard. Would you like to hear the silver lining? Check that, gold. I've been working with John Bontecou all along. We had a game plan  acquire Parrish Communications then break it apart and peddle it piecebypiece to the highest bidder. I set it up for him, he smacks it out of the park.
I don't want to get rich this way  I'm going to expose you.
Go right ahead. Tell William Parrish how you betrayed him at a secret Board meeting. And tell Allison how you got her father fired  and he lost his company.
This is damn big of Bill, I also think it's smart.
He had no choice. You're a formidable adversary.
He said that?
Well, you've got him by the short hairs.
Yeah, the short, gray hairs.
Good morning, Drew. Thanks for coming out.
Well, it's a big day. Wanted to line up a few ducks before kickoff. Any thoughts? Last minute refine ments or variations?
'Thoughts'? Not a one  but I did hear a voice last night.
A voice?
In my sleep.
What'd it say?
'Yes'.
'Yes' to the deal?
Maybe, who knows? You know how voices are. Let's go.
I was saying to Quince we won't need 
Did you just hear something?
Why yes, Bill, I was saying to Quince 
No no, not you.
...Tomorrow we sign off  photo opportunity, you and Big John, it'll lead network news. Okay so far?
Sounds good.
It's going to be great 
Do you think I need a haircut?
Bill, after this deal, you'll be able to afford one.
Our first annual report, must be thirtyfive years ago now, I owned two stations, I wrote down a state ment of purpose, that one day you would wake up to a Parrish radio station, read a Parrish paper at breakfast, catch our news on tele vision during the day, and go to bed with one of our books or magazines and you would always be told the truth and in the bargain, have a good time.
That's great! Wait 'til I show it to Bontecou.
I'm all excited 
Me, too.
I thought it was great, I thought you and Big John would be like a couple of bulls in a china shop  Instead it was 
Like a marriage made in heaven?
You have a way with words.
So... Board convenes tomorrow, you'll recommend, we close and it's a deal, right?
As close as a deal could be.
Olympic.
Yeah, something he goes by 
Oh, excuse me. This is  uh  this is 
Sorry...um  you  you know it's gone right out of my head 
What?!
'Joe...'
Yes.
Is there any more to it?
What do you mean?
Like 'Smith' or 'Jones '
Have we met?
Uh  he's from out of town 
No 
I get the feeling you've done some business before.
...Sounds like you're not leaving much room for discussion.
Sorry. I know it looks like I'm reversing my field.
That's your privilege, Bill. But given our needs, given the absolute necessity for growth, given the fu ture, the truth is... joining John Bontecou is every bit as certain as  Death and Taxes.
You're not familiar with the phrase, "In this world, nothing is certain but Death and Taxes"?
I am now.
Glad I could be of some help.
Shall we adjourn?
But the matter's still on the table, Bill 
No.
'Just kidding'?
Sit down, Drew.
Before I do  I was hoping we might be alone, Bill.
Joe and I have no secrets from each other.
How nice for you both.
Why?
I was hired, you told me, to help bring Parrish Communications into the 21st Century. This merger is the vehicle 
Joe, cut it out. And you too, Drew.
I thought this was practically a done deal 
Well now it's undone, okay? Forget Bontecou! Scrub him! I'm tired of his fancy name and his fancy offer. I'm not going for it.
I was a little abrupt with you this afternoon, Drew. Forgive me. I want you to know I value your advice.
As much as Joe's?
You're competitive soul, Drew. That's what makes you a great addi tion to the money. Joe is just... around.
For how long? And why?
Please. Don't worry about him. And above all, don't antagonize him.
Mind if I throw up?
Please, Drew.
I have to go, Bill  it's been a helluva day. Need a few minutes to sort everything out.
Okay, we'll see you tomorrow.
Sure.
What is there to say? They know what John Bontecou is  and if they didn't, they know now.
Yes, you made your feeling abun dantly clear. Now they want to do the same with theirs.
What are their feelings?
If I read this Board right now, they want you to accept Bontecou's offer.
Over my dead body.
What do you think the Board is going to say when I tell them that?
I don't care.
With all due respect, you damn well better care because if you try to stonewall them again, there'll be blood on the floor.
Whose?
Yours.
I'm feeling real uncomfortable right now because the guy who reports to me is threatening me.
I'm just giving you the truth. There was a time when William Parrish liked the truth.
I think it's time you went home, Drew.
Certainly. Goodnight.
Did you want to have a cup of coffee or something, Bill?
I don't think so. Do you?
That's it?
Bontecou wants a quick response and 
The answer is no, quick enough for you?
Don't you want to hear the details?
I'm not interested in the details. And I'm not interested in the big picture either. What I am inter ersted in is how my Board got conven ed behind my back, is entertaining a further proposal from a man whom it offends me to do business with, moreover has the audacity to present this to me like a prize fish, and I am expected to clap for it like a performing seal. No, thank you.
So I am to understand from your re sponse that you do not want to hear the details of Bontecou's offer?
Yes, you are to understand that, and now may I ask you a question?
Certainly, Bill.
Are you running this Board or am I?
I've already introduced Mr. Black to you all.
But who is he? What are his creden tials? What is his relationship to you?
In English, please.
Mandatory retirement upon our Chairman's sixtyfifth birthday.
I don't know where you get that idea  the Board agreed 
The Board didn't know you're a mole who burrowed inside so you could bury us all.
Is this Mr. Black's fantasy? Another one of his whoppers? Aren't you sick of this asshole lurking around? No one knows who he is, but one thing everyone does know, he somehow got your ear and has been pouring poison into it ever since.
I think I'd like to talk to my lawyer 
No lawyers, Drew. We're going to offer you a deal.
And what do I get?
You get not to go to jail.
You're talking through your hat. You're offering a deal because you've got no proof.
Proof? We've got plenty of proof.
We have an arrangement now.
What side of the industry did you say you were on?
I didn't say.
Joe sounds like a ringer, Bill. I have the feeling you guys got the broad strokes already. Need any help with the details?
Incidentally, Joe, where're you staying?
Here...
'Here'?
Nice to see you. I didn't expect you, but certainly you can't get enough of a good thing.
Thank you.
The Board of Parrish Communications  is hereby called to order. Our sole order of business is an acceptance of John Bontecou's generous offer and 
Do you have any more of these deli cious cookies?
Anything else, Mr. Black? How about some water?
Why yes, thank you.
Hot or cold.
Cold.
And a glass.
Yes.
"Death and Taxes"?
Yes.
What an odd pairing.
It's just a saying, Mr. Black,
Of whom?
It doesn't matter.
Then why did you bring it up?
May I interrupting?
Yes.
No.
Well, I'm going to tell you anyway. I did cheat on that exam at Groton. But so did twentysix other guys, and nobody ever mentioned it until today. And I'm expecting you won't mention it again. I don't know who you are and where you're getting your information, but I'm willing to pretend I did not hear it, and let bygones be bygones. But can I tell you something else, it'd be nice to see the big guy without you next to him. What are you, his shadow? Do you hold his dick for him when he goes to take a leak? You know some times somebody would like a few min utes alone with W.P. That means without you. Okay, pal? Let's eat.
Who are we talking about?
But I know she's grateful for the care you're giving her.
Is this a state secret or are we being excluded just for the fun of it?
Susan's patient is whom we are talking about.
Perhaps you could remind me.
I'll make a note of it. Anything else?
No, I don't 
Not good, not bad, you know what we got? Nothing. No credit, no cars, no mortgages  no wives. Nothing.
So tell me, tell me, I'm peeing in my pants.
 And now you're going to pee some more.
I'm not stepping anywhere 
I appreciate your gentlemanliness, Bill, but what we need to do here is drive the dagger home 
The dagger ?
And what would that be?
Bill's birthday is the day after tomorrow. There is a provisory by law in our charter. Per the discre tion of the Board, Corporate off icers can be retired at age sixty five.
You're taking this too far, Drew.
Am I not obligated to?
Thank you for coming.
Hello, Quince.
We're not getting anywhere here. Why don't we take some of the best out of this thing, let's consider it coolly, let's take a week 
Bontecou wants a speedier response than that.
He'll wait 
Hello, Beautiful.
Hi.
 Did I hear 'business'?
What 'business'?
...See you tomorrow night.
Include me out. I've had enough of the conversations.
You don't mean that. You wouldn't disappoint Daddy 
Daddy'll do fine. Besides, he's got Joe. And so do you.
Drew, you're out of line.
That may be. But I don't like the fucker. I don't like the way he looks at you and talks to you. And vice versa.
Sorry, but I like the way he looks and talks to me. And vice versa. Okay?
No, not okay. I thought we had a good thing going here. It shows you never know.
Well... goodnight.
Yeah. Goodnight.
Oh, you're the great Joe's attorney now? Are we going to go to court? Or are we going to go to bed? And I don't mean you and me. I mean you and him.
That's it. It's over. Get out.
So I guess a blowjob's out of the question?
Yes, sir?
Hello. I'm Joe Black. Nice to meet you.
Yes sir, Mr. Black, a pleasure.
What are you eating.
You mean this, sir?
'Laura Scudder's Peanut Butter'. You like it?
I would say, sir, it is right up there with Jif and Skippy. But miles ahead of Peter Pan. Like a taste?
I would prefer some peanut butter.
How would you like that, sir? On some kind of toast?
Toast? No...just the butter.
Right away.
Bill, thanks for coming over... And how're you doing today, Drew? You've got a firecracker here, the kid's really set the table.
Good, good. Glad to hear it.
We've met before, y'know, that White House function, the President had you on his right and you know where I was?
I'm sorry, I don't recall 
Left field somewhere. Well, Bill, I want to come in from the outfield, bat cleanup like you have, learn the plush ropes 
I thought you were buying my company.
Oh, Mr. Parrish, I could never buy Parrish Communications. I could pay for it, of course, but it would always have your imprint.
...This shit's not bad.
 The late harvest Riesling, Mr. Quince, a possibility for dessert.
And that?
Pinot Grigio. We're considering it for the appetizer.
What do you do that for?
Well sir, it's 9:30 in the morning.
9:30's almost 10:30. Where I come from, the sun's over the yardarm, m'boy, and the cocktail lamp is lit.
I'm afraid this is a wine bar, Mr. Quince.
Okay, give me a bottle of wine.
Red or white?
Both.
Honey, please.
Okay. All aboard  New York, New York!
Remember everybody, tonight, dinner in the city at Daddy's. You too, Drew. We've still got some loose ends 
What about the Mayor?
He said he would be there with bells on.
Please don't be negative, Drew, we have an acceptance list that would do The White House proud  The SecretaryGeneral of the UN, the Chairman of the FCC, nine Senators, I don't know how many Congressmen, and at least twelve of the Fortune '500'.
No jocks? A twentygame winner or a Masters champion? Someone I could talk to. Or would talk to me.
Paillarde of veal.
Yeah, they hit the calf over the head with a mallet and then Luisa hits it again in the kitchen.
Honey !
You know what I'm saying, Joe?
Yeah, but 
But what?
What will I tell Annie?
Daddy!
Hi, Allison 
Have you got a minute?
Not much more. Big day in the big city. What's on your mind?
Fireworks. Update  we're con structing the number '65' on the barge, archers from the State College at New Paltz will shoot flaming arrows at it, when it catches fire it will give us the effect of a Viking funeral with none of the morbidity... The Hudson River Authority says, for you, they'll make a special dispensation  of course there'll be an overtime bill for the Poughkeepsie Fire Dept...
Allison, I trust you. This is your thing.
But it's your birthday.
I hate parties 
Calm down, Daddy, you'll see, you're going to love it.
Isn't it enough to be on this earth sixtyfive years without having to be reminded of it.
No.
What, honey?
I lay awake nights in a cold sweat, I want this party to be like some thing Mom would have made for you, I want it to be perfect 
I know you do, darling.
And you could care less 
Oh, you couldn't be more wrong, sweetheart. I can' tell you how much I appreciate it and how I'm looking forward to it.
Good. Songs. What songs should Sidney  Pancho and his six men we can forget about  what songs do you think he should play?
Daddy. Does your friend have a name?
A name?
 Black.
Whew, at last. Nice to meet you, Mr. Black.
Now, I'm getting interested. I want to know more 
We've got some things to discuss.
Did you know twentysix members of your rifle company are coming?
Who?
From the Korean War.
Conflict, honey. Korean Conflict.
Whatever it was, they'll be here. We sent out invitations to everyone, plane tickets included  the RSVP's are amazing. A few of them we didn't hear from, and some of them are dead, of course 
Of course.
You know, we're going to give this party for you whether you like it or not.
I like it. I like it. I'm sorry I don't seem more appreciative.
That's okay, Daddy.
What is this?
Annie made them.
Who's Annie?
From La Rosette, only the greatest pastry chef in America. This is orange, from real Seville oranges. Lemon, on a millefeuille crust, a little on the fanciful. And a while, nothing like a good old white cake, vanilla, with Angel food but some maroons shavings thrown in.
I don't like cake.
It's for the party, Dad 
Oh, the goddam party 
'Goddam party'!
Hi, Daddy, what do you think?
It's starting to grow on me. But what do the 'B' and 'P' mean?
The fountain is the Caspian Sea and the Sea is serving up caviar. The 'B's for Beluga, the 'P' for Petrossian. Of course, they also stand for 'Bill' and for 'Parrish'.
Do they, m'dear?
 Plus we've got a baritone with a balalaika coming from The Russian Tea Room. I've dressed him in a Cossack shirt and he'll sing Nelson Eddy songs.
I do it because I love you. Because everybody I loved you. Mommy  wher ever she is  Susan, Quince, the people who work for you, everybody who's ever known you.
Yeah? And what about my enemies?
They respect you. Isn't that a kind of love?
I haven't been the father to you that 
That you've been to Susan?
I wasn't going to say 
But that's what you were thinking. And that's okay. Because I know you love me. Not like it is with Susan, the way your eyes light up when she comes in the room and the way she always gets a laugh out of you, as opposed to me when I walk in a room and that look comes over your face, "What does she want now?"
You know, darling, this is going to be a wonderful party.
Yes, it is.
Did you speak to the Governor?
He's coming.
His wife?
Unfortunately. I sat between them at the Bronx Zoo benefit  it was better than Seconal.
Daddy! Come on, a name.
Yeah, Bill, the suspense is killing me.
Just plain 'Joe'?
Love that name.
That was 'Joe'.
He's cute.
Very.
Did he? That's more than we get to do.
Well, maybe next time Joe goes, he'll take us along.
I'm Allison, you're 'honey'.
Drew called from the AStar, they're still two minutes away.
Hi, everybody. Sorry to be late  had to have dinner with my depart ment chief 
You ate?
...I'm here, aren't I? Wouldn't miss a loose end meeting. What's on the table for discussion? Party favors, flowers  hi Dad, hi Drew 
That's your name?
And isn't it a lovely one? So sturdy, so straight 
...We're never all together two nights in a row. Maybe Christmas, Thanksgiving, that's it. What's going on?
Nothing's going on. Maybe he doesn't want to be alone. He's go ing to be sixtyfive in a minute 
...I don't know, Daddy seems funny to me. Ever since Joe showed. It's like he dropped from the clouds...
 But he does seem very nice.
You think so?
Look who's talking.
Yeah, speak for yourself.
Dinner? Again?
Haven't you had enough of us, Dad?
How much?
Not bad. $20. Here, $5.
Can you spare it?
Sure.
Thanks.
Yeah.
Ok guys...have a heart. This is my business.
How about me? I don't get a drink John?
Of course! A double for Michael, Tony.
I know what you're going to say but don't say it. These drinks are all on the tab. I'm gonna see you this Tuesday payday, I promise. I give you my word.
You what?
Just keep him quiet.
Friends of yours Michael.
Shut up.
Must have been all the liquor in him.
Quiet please.
Hey Johnny, where're you goin'?
Sal!... fourteen street.
Come on.
This is some boat. Your father's?
Yeah...just had it delivered...
Hey... you got stereo.
Yeah, I think so.
Ah...there's a funny lookin' cab behind us.
I know...I know.
What'sa matter...forget your registration?
No...no. Nooo...it's just that I...I...uh... this ain't my car.
Yeah, it's your father's.
Well...no.
You mean it's heisted.
You could say that.
This is a heisted car!
and a double for you and Charlie here. And put it on my tab, willya?
Which one, the big tab or the little tab?
Put it on the little tab so that it balances with the big one.
Yeah, so things'll be even.
Will you guys shut up with the witches and tigers. Tony, you gonna close the place, we get out of here, get something to eat, or what?
We'll close up as soon as everybody leaves.
Scumbag
Shut up.
Lower the fuckin musicI can't hear nothin.
The girls like it loud.
Girls? You call those skanks girls?!
What's the matter with this kid?
I feel finenothing wrong with me.
Don't count it...it's all there.
Count it.
Hey, c'mon  no bullshit  friends.
I'd like to eat something before I go back to work.
Ok, we'll go for lunch.
Do you have enough?
Well...with the hotel that's ten... fifteen...
Here.
Please take it.
Well...
I don't mind.
Sure...it's not that...I mean...
It's all right.
Well, if things go the way I hope they'll go, this money business will take care of itself. God willing.
An apartment uptown? Downtown?
Maybe, who knows.
Charlie...?
Nobody knows anything, believe me.
See if you can get your hands on some pamphlets on laws or by laws...or proprietorship...you know...at your place.
Anything specific?
You know...like restaurants, night clubs...
What is it now?
Don't ask.
Alright... Hey, did you hear any more about what happened last night?
Did you?
No.
CHRIST, you should have seen it. Unbelievable. The kid would turn around and fire and he would just keep coming at him like Rasputin. That kid was scared. Not half as much as we were though.
It doesn't make any sense. He wouldn't shoot him just because he insulted a racket guy...not unless it was personal.
You missed the point. The kid's a climber...not very bright...but if you get down to his level to look at it his way; he kills a guy who insulted a big man  he gets a reputation. He thinks he's in good standing.
It's still sick.
Not sick...just stupid. Speaking of stupid, your cousin last night was feeling so good he decided to break into your mother's house...to get some food.
C'mon Charlie...one more day. I'll call in sick for work.
No...we can come back in a couple of weeks. Besides, if we're both gone for three days it wouldn't look right.
Ok.
Bore.
A paper on that one too?
Yeah...but don't worry about that now. The Hemmingway one is first.
It was nothing. I'm almost finished.
Take your time. I don't care.
I know you don't. You've been very preoccupied lately.
That's the word...preoccupied.
See that...know who lives there? The name George Earhardt mean anything to you?
Sure...He lives there?
No. Of course he lives there. Would I point it out to you if he didn't?
That W.A.S.P. bastard.
You're intolerable today.
Watch your language.
I'm going to take that apartment uptown.
Uhuh...probably a good idea. Why don't you do it this time?
You know why...with my parents.
Well you can't blame them in a way.
I can take care of myself. You know that.
I know...I know.
...He must have heard the name from those T.V.'s in the hall that were blaring all the time. I remember GUEVARA was in town at the time. Must've heard it from there I guess...but that's funny, isn't it?
Ummmmmmmmmmmmm.
Of all people. Now say the truth. Do I look like Che Guevara. C'mon.
I'm sleepy.
You've been running round too much. Bet you've been forgetting your medicine.
The green capsules in the top drawer.
The building on the corner. That one! He's been on the roof a half hour now!
Now don't get excited. Don't get excited!!
Teresa?...Yeah, Charlie. Listen, I'm looking for your cousin. Yeah, well today's Tuesday, payday. I haven't seen him all day...no...well, have you got any idea where he is? I know it's early yet but I'm just getting worried that's all...
Charlie...I've got to see you. I want to talk...
Honey, I can't talk now...I've gotta run, bye.
But...
Are you sure he didn't say anything to you about tonight?
For God's Sakes...I told you before...nothing. Charlie, I can't stay in here too long at this hour...will you please listen to me?
Wasn't a book...was a short story.
What was it?
Nothing.
No, c'mon...Y'know, I read.
"Francis Macomber."
Wha?
"Short Happy Life of Francis Macomber."
Oh yeah...didn't read it but I saw the movie...Gregory Peck...pretty good.
It's only a couple of courses...just for the draft.
Charlie, couple of courses isn't enough to get you student deferred... I mean if they wanted to draft you, you would've been drafted by now.
Why don't you take a look around the place if you want?
Oh, that's ok...I've been in and out of this place fifty times.
Uncle, how are you feeling?
Fine. Did you have a good time last night?
About that shooting last night...I was there and...
No you weren't.
You're right uncle. I must have gotten it confused with something else.
Yes, you did.
About Oscar...I think he put on this act...about the restaurant being in bad shape and all that. He can't make the payments...I don't know what to make of it. He says Groppi's run off with a girl. I could help if you want.
No...his business is bad. But I'll decide what to do and you...and you just keep out of anything that might...might...er draw attention to you.
Take a drink!
Ok.
Hey, where you been?
Oh...around...why?
You heard what happened to GROPPI, eh?
Who me? ...No, I don't know, not me...all I know is...
Our friend, Groppi, went to his mother's house. And when he was there...at night...
I really couldn't believe it when you told me, you know that?
Well, he was always a little crazy... he puts a gun in his mouth... ...like your friend...comme si chiama...Henning? Heming?
Hemmingway. Killed himself. I was more upset about that than about Groppi, that's for sure.
You know, this boy over here, once, long time ago, tried to enrich my mind...so he gives me a book by this Hemin fella...to read, so I read it.
Oh yes, he's pretty good.
What I don't understand is why you have to go to college to read these books that you're gonna read anyway.
...but it's the same thing, all the same...they're in there by having something on somebody...and when that doesn't work...they fight...Our life has honor...we have no show to put on because we do what we have to do. They know where to come when they need us. I realize this during the war...World War II...Vito Genovese... during WWII he worked with the government, taking care of the docks...
What did he do?
His whole family has problems...his cousin, the girl who lives next door to you...
Teresa.
...The one who's sick, right? In the head.
No, she's got epilepsy.
Yeah. That's what I said, sick in the head.
Her mother and father come to me and ask advice...she wants to leave...get her own apartment...worries them sick...what am I gonna tell them? Lock her up?
What do they expect you to say?
Who knows? It's not hard to figure out what she'll wind up like. When the respect for parents breaks down, that's bad...you know I'm "cumpari" with them...so I take an interest. You live next door, keep an eye open...but don't get involved.
All right.
Well, maybe you missed something?
Oh yeah, that's a possibility.
Diane, how are you feeling?
Fine.
You know Diane...I've been wanting to talk to you for a while now...er... a... aside from all that joking around we do out there...when you're on...I... a...I really...think that you're a terrific performer...
Fine.
No, I'm serious...You're really good.
I know.
In a little while...I'm gonna have the opportunity of opening my own place...not here...much nicer than this...uptown...sort of niteclub and restaurant and everything.
That's nice.
I was thinking maybe you'd do very nicely for the place.
Stripper?
No...no stripping...as the hostess.
Hostess?
Yeah, you know...you greet the people...see them to their tables... well...it'll be different though... Listen...why don't we get together and talk after your show tonight.
Chinese food?
Ok. Chinese. We'll meet on the corner of 6th Avenue and Waverly Place after you finish.
Why not here...Ok nevermind...6th Avenue and Waverly.
Bye.
Oh great...hey  Winstons?
For these prices don't be particular. That's all they had  but next week we'll see...
OK, ok...
Sell 'em if you can't smoke them.
No...I'll be ok for a week.
You seen Johnny Boy tonight?
Nope...
Isn't he supposed to be here tonight...I mean...
Look...I don't know. What am I supposed to be, his keeper or something? Yeah, he's supposed to be here but who knows what goes on in his head. Right?
I'd like to know Charlie, it looks like your little friend is trying to duck me...
...Charlie, don't you think you should be interested in Johnny's payments to me? I think you should be, you know that.
Michael, nobody's out to screw you, I guarrantee that.
I know that Charlie but look at my side. You undersigned the loans. You vouched for him. What happens if this kid don't pay me? I gotta collect from you? I don't want to do that. I made a deal with him not you, right?
You're right. You're right. Look, I'm not gonna wind up paying his debts. You know that.
I don't know that. That's what I'm telling you.
Michael, believe me. You know the kid's a little crazy sometimes. I vouched for him and he'll come through. I promise. I'll talk to him and straighten him out. Don't worry, OK?
OK.
Michael, give us a lift.
OK, get in.
Hey, shut up.
Get him in.
Disgraceful.
Ok...that's it.
Out!!!!
C'mon Johnny.
You getting out too?
Yeah, thanks, it's ok.
Oh Michael, look...
Nevamind 'look'...This punk bastard...I call him at work...I say 'Johnny Boy there?'...He doesn't even show up for work anymore...
Look...I've talked to him and I've talked to him...what more can I do...? Tonight at the party all three of us get together and we knock some sense into his head...ok?
All right...but understand, I don't like being taken advantage of. I mean you're in there talking with your uncle and all...This is embarassing.
We'll settle it tonight.
What's a'matter?
Nothin'. Just stiffed those kids. Don't want'em comin' back and findin' you...start asking you questions.
How much?
$20.
Let's go to the movies...on you.
Well, he isn't. Nice...real nice.
He'll be here. Look, take this for now.
You kiddin. The way it is now this isn't even interest for two hours.
How much was the original loan again?
$500. He borrowed that because he wanted to pay off his other loans... now, counting the interest...it's almost $3,000.
$3,000. Shit! Can we hold it at $3,000?
Charlie, this is business.
'But I say to you, love your enemies, do good to those who hate you, and pray for those who persecute...'
I'll tell you who you can pray for... Next payday, I'll be at Tony's Place...Johnny better show or I find him and break his legs...and I mean it.
'But I say to you not to resist the evildoer; on the contrary, if someone takes thy tunic, let him take thy cloak as well...to him who asks of thee, give; and from him who would borrow of thee do not turn away!
He could at least show some respect and show his face, even if he doesn't have the money...
'Amen I say to thee, thou wilt not come out from it until thou hast paid the last penny.'
You said it.
Be seeing you and Johnny tonight... here...right?
We'll be here.
Look, Michael, I'll get him here. What do you want me to do, kill him?
Whatever.
Where's the rest?
Yeah, where's the rest?
You're really crazy.
You're not going to use that gun, Johnny.
Hey...you're here. They told me you're here...and you're here. How are you?
Ok, how's everything going?
Don't ask...do you have any idea what I've been doing all morning...eh?
No.
I was in the basement fixing the pipes. Would you believe that?
What pipes?
What pipes...the ones from last year...those pipes.
Look Charlie, you're a good boy. Will you just tell your uncle that I have nothing. There is nothing to give him. No envelopes with cash inside, no checks, nothing.
That bad, huh?
I can't make this week's payment and if this keeps up not next week's either.
Not next week's either...listen...you tell that to Giovanni, not me.
Listen, I should wrap up this place in a ribbon and hand it to him, you know that. I don't need this aggravation. I'm getting old.
He'd rather have the loan payed, you know that.
Your Uncle's a good man...I won't stick him. Either he gets the money or the place and right now he's getting the place. And tell me why should I care? I got a partner who's a bum, who doesn't help out...who disappears and leaves me with all the problems. I should go back to Florida...I don't need this.
I don't understand, where's Groppi?
I should know? His wife don't even know. Probably off with one of his little girls...I don't know. I tell you, if he don't give a damn, then I don't give a damn...Why should I kill myself?
My uncle figured that this week was bad...but about next week...I dunno. Maybe you should speak to him yourself.
What can I say?
Drinks for everybody Tony...
Giovanino! Where have you been?
What happened to you Flash?
Charlie, I swear on my mother, you're not going to believe this.
I know but let's hear it anyway.
I swear to God Charlie, it's the truth.
It's the truth, I swear.
All right, forget it. Tony, you got anything we can put on his face?
Nah.
C'mon Tony, waddaya say?
Yes, you're gettin' it all over my tie.
Should I slap him?
I don't think I should go home looking like this. You think I could stay at your place tonight? Your mother's not there is she?
No, she isn't.
You'd better make a move kid. He thinks you're trying to screw him.
Wouldn't bother me.
Yeah, big man...get yourself in more trouble. You make a fool out of him, you're doing the same to me. I signed for you don't forget.
Don't worry. I can handle it.
You couldn't handle shit. You just better come through with some kind of payment on Tuesday...anything. Understand? Hold onto your pay check this week.
There won't be any this week.
What do you mean?
Didn't show up.
You sick or what? You forget what we had to do to get you on the trucks, stupid?
I don't like loading crates.
You're not supposed to like it. What gets me is your attitude. Listen... tomorrow you show up.
What about your attitude...Where's your job...eh? You talk and talk and I go to work...what do you do?
I'll tell you what I don't do... I don't owe anybody 2,000 clams plus interest, stupid. Show up or I break both your arms, we understand each other?
Ok, ok...take it easy. I'll show. Tuesday I'll give Michael something. I promise.
Don't promise...just deliver.
Ok, now that that's over with...what are you gonna make me for breakfast?
I won't wait until Tuesday. I'll break your arms right now.
Listen...I'm a guest here.
Hey...you got nothing here.
I could have told you that.
We'll get some food from my aunt's. I'll get in through the fire escape. She's always got something.
Don't come any closer!!!
Cut it out stupid. It's me.
Hey...don't do that...I'm only scaring them.
Stupid bastard...you get your cousin halfsick over this.
Let's get out of here.
Did you see them run!
I swear to God Charlie...my arm still hurts from the car accident...that's why I didn't go to work. I swear it.
That's not going to help.
I'm going to work this week...I mean it.
It's impossible for you to catch up on the loan now...the interest is going up...$3,000...do you realize that, flash?
I'm sorry Charlie...I didn't mean it.
Big deal...in the meantime, it's done...I'll still try to help you out...You know that...but you gotta show some effort...some respect... understand?
Charlie, you know the best way to take care of this whole mess.
How?
If you had a little talk with your uncle...if anybody can do it, he can.
That'll help you out fine. That's the best way for you, not for me! I swear to God, I'll rip you open if my uncle ever hears a word about this. You understand? I don't care what happens, he doesn't find out.
I don't get involved with anything, you understand that? Nothing! I'm clean as far as you know...right?
Yeah, take it easy. Will you relax.
That's what I get for getting involved. Look, on payday at least show up at Tony's Place to meet him, ok? This way he doesn't think that you're trying to screw him. If you show good faith and save his face maybe we can talk and he'll take off the interest or make different payment arrangements or something... understand? I'm not asking I'm telling you!!
I understand.
Keep your mouth shut.
You tell me that in front of these creeps?
Shut up!
Yeah, Teresa, shut up! We don't wanna get Charlie here in trouble, do we?...We love Charlie.
Your cousin here was getting sick, worrying about you. We've been in here calling...
Oh, that's too bad, Teresa...
Well kids...have the bans been announced yet?
Don't be smart.
I'm not smart...I'm stupid, remember. I'm so stupid that you have to look out for me, remember?
Johnny, I swear to God, if you open your mouth about any of this...
Me? I wouldn't say a word to my aunt and uncle...or even your uncle, Charlie...
You threaten me with my uncle? After what I'm doing for you?
What you're doing for me isn't worth it...believe me!
Take it. I'm doing it for you, stupid!
No you're not...
Oh, cut it out, will ya?
Charlie, twentyeight bucks is nothing. The only way to do it is through your uncle...think about it will you?
NO!!! What do you think I am, crazy???
No, I just want to help myself, that's all.
Come on.
Don't you move!!!
I'll be here. Don't worry.
Back so soon.
Mind your own business.
Hello, Michael. I've got something for you...not much...but...
He has about twentyeight bucks... it's all he has on him.
I think we should see your uncle.
No.
This can't be settled any other way now...I'll take full blame.
Forget it.
What are you going to do? Hide me?
Good idea.
Waddaya think?
Not quite...but keep trying.
Next time, bet with your own kind.
The number was 235  I bet it combination.
It'll be OK  I know those guys. They won't stiff you.
I bet 235. Because I dreamt of my grandfather  and when he died, the number of the funeral parlour was 235  so when I dreamt...
You got some mouth!
Johnny, you're a real jerkoff.
Keep quiet about this. I don't have any license for him yet. I've only had him a couple of days. Nobody can feed him except me. I'm the only one he trusts. Watch.
Don't go to any trouble. We believe you... We believe you.
Really wanted to get a little tiger Charlie, y'know...a little William Blake and all that...
Be careful.
See what I mean? A question please...'Is this what you call living?'
'Take a little tip from Mack the Knife...'
And I wouldn't call it TONY'S PLACE or CHARLIE'S PLACE... I'd call it something like SEASON OF THE WITCH... get it?
You are with out a doubt the biggest, most pretentious bullshit thrower I know. Like to see what kind of business you'd do.
Look who's talking. Pretentious bullshit. Who's the guy with William Blake and the tigers, eh?
No.
Anybody wanna have a game?
May God be with you.
'And with your spirit.'
Salute!!!
'Art thou the King of the Jews'?
'Dost thou say this of thyself, or have others told thee of me?'
'My kingdom is not of this world. If my kingdom were of this world my followers would have fought that I might not be delivered to the Jews. But, as it is my kingdom is not from here.'
'Thou art then a king?'
'Thou sayest it; I am a king. This is why I was born and why I have come into this world, to bear witness to the truth. Everyone who is of the truth hears my voice.'
Prophesy to us, oh Christ! Who is it that struck thee?
I don't know, but God help him if he does it again!
Who's the girl?
Jewish...
How do you know?
Look at her.
She don't look Jewish.
Sure she is. She's always in here with some different guy. You know the way they are.
Get out of here before this really goes up.
Hide the gun. Throw it away. Anything. Listen, I gotta borrow your car...I think we should take a ride...away from here for the night...you know what I mean?
Ok...but go to a movie first or something...not good to be driving around right away. You know you can't do much for him now...it's out of your hands.
Where to?
Kennedy.
I know, I know, stupid. I mean where you goin'?
It's an open ticket. I can go anywhere up to $350.
So?
So I'll send you a postcard from wherever. If I get there.
Nervous?
Yeah.
You flew before?
No.
Hey, come on...
Take it easy. I only asked because maybe I could, you know, let you have a little something.
Yeah, well thanks, but I got enough to hold me. My mother can send me some. I don't know.
How about Teresa? I could talk...
Listen, I appreciate it, but I'll handle it myself. I'll write.
And say what?
I'll say that I'm travelling.
Listen, try a place with some sun. Swimming pools. Palm trees. Girls in little French bathing suits.
Thanks for the ride.
Panther...
Panther! Same thing...
Hey...no more good times like before. Until you come back.
Sure. And you're gonna take the vows next Tuesday, right.
Yeah, I'm gonna worry about you, too.
Yeah.
Ok. Wait here.
Ok, you guys get out, and wait here for me.
Why?
I gotta get the stuff.
Can't we come with you?
Nobody sees where I get the stuff. That's good business. I'll be back in thirty minutes.
Hey hold it! Gimmie the cash.
Uh...can we give you a check?
A check? What the...hey, where you kids from?
Sssh! Quiet. Y'know that's illegal.
Well the guy over there said...
Yeah, yeah, never mind. You gotta be careful.
Well, we got $40, and we wanna buy...
All right! Quiet! For $40 I could give you...
Well, we want good stuff.
Well, my stuff comes from Maryland... you know what that means?
Yeah.
And cherry bombs...ash cans...and rockets?
Ok. For another $5.00 a special on the packs.
We went down to Chinatown but they don't have any.
Yeah, well, keep away from those Chinx. They don't have shit.
Well, I don't know if we want to buy all $40 worth...
Hey! You want good stuff, or you want shit?
No.
That means it's good.
You got sparklers?
No, all we got is $40.
You sure?
Riverdale.
Well, maybe they do that in Riverdale, but down here we take cash. Now, you got it or not?
Isn't this Jack Groppi's place?
Yeah. But he ain't here now.
Know where he is?
Follow me.
No, really, I liked it...thought it was great.
Thanks.
What are your plans?
Well, we're here for about two weeks, then whatever else comes along... we're still working on our album and...
Great...great...listen, I'm very interested in you guys because I'll be opening a new club myself soon... uptown...and maybe we can work something out...
Sounds good.
Of course, 'The Season of the Witch' won't be ready for a while yet but we have to keep in touch.
It's obvious that the girl doesn't want to accompany you, isn't it?
Look fella...this is private...
Nothing's private...
Whether she wants to or not...she's not going.
Let go of her.
Operator.
Tank, it's me.
Yes. They're moving him. I don't know where yet.
He's alive.
We need an exit!
You're not far from Cypher.
Cypher, I thought 
So did we. I sent him to Franklin and Erie.
Got it.
Tank, you're hurt.
I'll be all right.
Dozer?
There is. We have to pull the plug.
You're going to kill him? Kill Morpheus?!
Trinity, we don't have any other choice.
Operator.
Tank, I need a pilot program for a military M109 helicopter.
Neo!
What the hell just happened?
An Agent! You have to send me back!
I can't!
What just happened?
I don't know. I lost him.
They've burned through the outer shields.
Hurry, Neo.
Morning. Did you sleep?
No.
You will tonight. I guarantee it. I'm Tank. I'll be your operator.
You don't have...
Any holes? Nope. Me and my brother Dozer, we are 100 percent pure, old fashioned, homegrown human. Born free. Right here in the real world. Genuine child of Zion.
Zion?
If this war ended tomorrow, Zion is where the party would be.
It's a city?
The last human city. The only place we got left.
Where is it?
Deep underground. Near the earth's core, where it's still warm. You live long enough, you might even see it.
Holy shit!
Hey, Mikey, he likes it! Ready for more?
Hell yes!
See who?
The Oracle.
What are they doing to him?
They're hacking his mind.
How?
They inject viruslike serums to attack the neurosystems. It's like cracking a computer. All it takes is time.
How much time?
Depends on the mind. But eventually, it will crack and his alpha pattern will change from this to this.
When it does, Morpheus will tell them anything they want to know.
What do they want?
Every leader of every ship is given the codes to Zion's mainframe computer which can be accessed only through the Matrix. They are used only in emergencies. If an agent had those codes and got inside Zion's mainframe they could disable the entire defense system. It would be the end of everything.
Goddamnit! I don't believe this is happening!
Neo, this has to be done!
Does it? I don't know. This can't be just coincidence. It can't be! Can it?
What are you talking about?
The Oracle. She told me this would happen. She told me...
Neo, this is loco. They've got Morpheus in a militarycontrolled building. Even if you somehow got inside, those are agents holding him. Three of them! I want Morpheus back, too, but what you are talking about is suicide.
I know that's what it looks like, but it's not. I can't logically explain to you why it's not. Morpheus believed something and he was ready to give his life for what he believed. I understand that now. That's why I have to go.
Why?
Because I believe in something.
Okay. Store's open. What do you need? Besides a miracle...
Guns. Lots of guns.
Operator.
Mr. Wizard, get me the fuck out of here!
Which way? Which way?
Duck!
It's locked.
Kick it in! Kick it in!
Hello, Neo.
How do you know that name?
I know a lot about you. I've been wanting to meet you for some time.
Who are you?
My name is Trinity.
Trinity? The Trinity? The Trinity that cracked the I.R.S. Kansas City DBase?
That was a long time ago.
Geezus.
What?
I just thought... you were a guy.
Most guys do.
Do you want to go somewhere and talk?
No. It's safe here and I don't have much time.
How did you do that?
Right now, all I can tell you, is that you are in danger. I brought you here to warn you.
Of what?
They're watching you, Neo.
Who is?
Please. Just listen. I know why you're here, Neo. I know why you left your family and your friends, why you left your home to come to this city. You're looking for him.
It's the question that brought you here. You know the question just as I did. It is a hacker's question.
What is the Matrix?
When I asked him, he said that no one could ever be told the answer to that question. They have to see it to believe it.
What the hell is this?!
It's necessary, Neo. For our protection.
From what?
From you.
Neo, please, you have to trust me.
Why?
Because you've been down there, Neo. You already know that road. You know exactly where it ends.
And I know that's not where you want to be.
... shit.
What is this thing?
We think you're bugged. Try to relax.
Uhoh...
It's going into replication.
Get this thing out of me!
Easy, Neo. Easy.
E.M.P. An electromagnetic pulse.
It disables any electrical system in the blast radius. It's the only weapon we have against the machines.
God...
What?
I used to eat there... Really good noodles.
What does that mean?
That the Matrix cannot tell you who you are.
But an Oracle can.
That's different.
Is it?
Are you worried?
Should I be?
No.
Did you go to her?
Yes.
What did she tell you?
She told me...
Are you all right?
... right as rain.
What did you just say?
Nothing. Just had a little deja vu.
What happened? What did you see?
A black cat went past us and then I saw another that looked just like it.
How much like it? Was it the same cat?
It might have been. I'm not sure.
What is it?
A deju vu is usually a glitch in the Matrix. It happens when they change something.
Go!
We can't leave him!
We have to!
Is Morpheus alive?
Is Morpheus still alive, Tank?
What happened?
I don't know. It just went dead.
Goddamnit! Goddamnit!
There has to be something that we can do.
That I would have to make a choice...
What choice?
What are you doing?
I'm going in after him.
You can't!
I have to.
Morpheus sacrificed himself so we could get you out! There's no way you're going back in!
Morpheus did what he did because he believed that I'm something I'm not.
What?
I'm not the One, Trinity. The Oracle hit me with that too.
No, you... have to be.
I'm sorry, I'm not. I'm just another guy. Morpheus is the one that matters.
No, Neo. That's not true. It can't be true.
Why?
Because...
What?
I believe I can bring him back.
What are you doing?
I'm coming with you.
No, you're not.
No? Let me tell you what I believe. I believe Morpheus means more to me than he does to you. I believe that if you are serious about saving him then you are going to need my help and since I am the ranking officer on this ship, if you don't like it then I believe that you can go to hell, because you aren't going anywhere else.
No one has ever done anything like this.
Yeah?
Neo, how did you do that?
Do what?
You moved like they moved. I've never seen anyone move that fast.
It wasn't fast enough.
Are you all right?
I'm fine. Come on, we have to keep moving.
Can you fly that thing.
Not yet.
Hello?
I know. You're Neo. Be right with you.
You're the Oracle?
Bingo. Not quite what you were expecting, right? I got to say I love seeing you nonbelievers. Always a pip. Almost done. Smell good, don't they?
Yeah.
I'd ask you to sit down, but you're not going to anyway. And don't worry about the vase.
What vase?
That vase.
Shit, I'm sorry.
I said don't worry about it. I'll get one of my kids to fix it.
How did you know...?
You're cuter than I thought. I see why she likes you.
Who?
Not too bright though.
So? What do you think? You think you're the One?
Honestly? I don't know.
Okay, now I'm supposed to say, 'Hmmm, that's interesting but...' Then you say 
But what?
But you already know what I'm going to tell you.
I'm not the One.
Sorry, kid. You got the gift but looks like you're waiting for something.
What?
Your next life, maybe. Who knows. That's how these things go.
What's funny?
Morpheus. He almost had me convinced.
I know. Poor Morpheus. Without him we are lost. We will never find the One.
What do you mean, without him?
Morpheus believes in you, Neo and no one, not you or even me can convince him otherwise. He believes it so blindly that he's going to sacrifice his life to save yours.
What?
You're going to have to make a final choice. In one hand, you will have Morpheus' life. In the other hand, you will have your own. One of you is going to die. Which one, will be up to you.
How is he?
Ten hours straight. He's a machine.
Got it.
I need the main wetwall.
Now left and that's it in front of you.
Good.
Tank.
Goddamn! It's good to hear your voice, sir!
We need an exit.
Got one ready, sir. Subway. State and Balbo.
We're on our way 
Tank, charge the E.M.P.
Yes, sir.
I'm going to make the call.
Do it!
How...?!
He is the One. He is the One!
Hello?
Hello, Neo. Do you know who this is?
Morpheus...
I've been looking for you, Neo. I don't know if you're ready to see what I want to show you, but unfortunately, we have run out of time. They're coming for you, Neo. And I'm not sure what they're going to do.
Who's coming for me?
Stand up and see for yourself.
Right now?
Yes. Now.
Holy fucking shit!
Yes.
What the fuck do they want with me?!
I'm not sure, but if you don't want to find out, you better get out of there.
How?!
I can guide you out, but you have to do exactly what I say.
The cubicle across from you is empty.
But what if...?
Go! Now!
Good. Now there is a window. Open it.
How do you know all this?
No! It's too far away.
There's a small ledge. It's a short climb. You can make it.
No way, no way, this is crazy.
There are only two ways out of this building. One is that scaffold. The other is in their custody. You take a chance either way. I leave it to you.
This line is tapped so I must be brief.
The agents 
They got to you first, but they've underestimated how important you are. If they knew what I know, you would probably be dead.
What do you know?
You're the One, Neo. You see, you may have spent the last few years looking for me, but I've spent most of my life looking for you.
Do you still want to meet?
... Yes.
Go the the Adams Street bridge.
Welcome, Neo. As you no doubt have guessed, I am Morpheus.
It's an honor.
Please. Come. Sit.
I imagine, right now, you must be feeling a bit like Alice, tumbling down the rabbit hole?
You could say that.
I can see it in your eyes. You have the look of a man who accepts what he sees because he is expecting to wake up.
Ironically, this is not far from the truth. But I'm getting ahead of myself. Can you tell me, Neo, why are you here?
You're Morpheus, you're a legend. Most hackers would die to meet you.
Yes. Thank you. But I think we both know there's more to it than that. Do you believe in fate, Neo?
No.
Why not?
Because I don't like the idea that I'm not in control of my life.
I know exactly what you mean.
Let me tell you why you are here. You have come because you know something. What you know you can't explain but you feel it. You've felt it your whole life, felt that something is wrong with the world. You don't know what, but it's there like a splinter in your mind, driving you mad. It is this feeling that brought you to me. Do you know what I'm talking about?
The Matrix?
Do you want to know what it is?
The Matrix is everywhere, it's all around us, here even in this room. You can see it out your window or on your television. You feel it when you go to work, or go to church or pay your taxes. It is the world that has been pulled over your eyes to blind you from the truth.
What truth?
That you are a slave, Neo. Like everyone else, you were born into bondage, kept inside a prison that you cannot smell, taste, or touch. A prison for your mind.
The pill you took is part of a trace program. It's designed to disrupt your input/output carrier signal so we can pinpoint your location.
What does that mean?
Have you ever had a dream, Neo, that you were so sure was real?
This can't be...
Be what? Be real?
... am I dead?
Far from it.
What are you doing?
Your muscles have atrophied. We're rebuilding them.
Why do my eyes hurt?
You've never used them before.
Morpheus, what's happened to me? What is this place?
More important than what is when?
When?
You believe the year is 1997 when in fact it is much closer to 2197. I can't say for certain what year it is because we honestly do not know.
Right now, we're inside a computer program?
Wild, isn't it?
This isn't real?
What is real? How do you define real? If you're talking about your senses, what you feel, taste, smell, or see, then all you're talking about are electrical signals interpreted by your brain.
We have only bits and pieces of information. What we know for certain is that, at some point in the early Twentyfirst Century, all of mankind was united in celebration. Through the blinding inebriation of hubris, we marveled at our magnificence as we gave birth to A.I.
A.I.? You mean artificial intelligence?
Yes. A singular consciousness that spawned an entire race of machines. I must say I find it almost funny to imagine the world slapping itself on the back, toasting the new age. I say almost funny.
No! I don't believe it! It's not possible!
I didn't say that it would be easy, Neo. I just said that it would be the truth.
Get some rest. You're going to need it.
For what?
Your training.
This is incredible. I know kung fu.
Show me.
How did I beat you?
You  you're too fast.
Do you think my being faster, stronger has anything to do with my muscles in this place?
I know what you're trying to do 
I'm trying to free your mind, Neo, but all I can do is show you the door. You're the one that has to step through. Tank, load the jump program.
Do you know why you didn't make it?
Because... I didn't think I would?
I thought it wasn't real.
Your mind makes it real.
If you are killed in the Matrix, you die here?
The body cannot live without the mind.
This is another Matrix simulation. A training program to help you get your sea legs and teach you one very important lesson.
What  what lesson?
Do you understand, Neo?
I think I do.
No you don't. Did you see the woman in the red dress?
Yeah.
Look again.
Every attempt to fight them has ended in failure. Only a handful of men and women have ever crossed an agent and lived because they are everyone and they are no one. Unkillable. But now I believe that is going to change.
How?
I've seen an agent punch through a concrete wall. Men have emptied entire clips at them and hit noting but air. Yet as powerful as they are, their speed and strength are but tethers to the rules of an unreal world. Because of this, they will never be as strong or as fast as you can be.
What? Are you trying to tell me that I can dodge bullets?
No, Neo. I'm trying to tell you that when you're ready, you won't have to.
Set down in there.
What's going on?
So is this the same oracle that made the, uh, prophecy?
Yes. She's very old. She's been with us since the beginning.
The beginning?
Of the Resistance.
And she knows what? Everything?
She would say she knows enough.
How does she know?
She is a true psychic. She sees beyond the relativity of time. For her there is no past, present or future. There is only what is.
And she's never wrong.
Don't think of it in terms of right and wrong. She is a guide, Neo. She can help you find the path.
She helped you?
Yes.
What did she tell you?
That I would find the One.
Morpheus, I don't think this is a good idea.
Why?
I told you I don't believe in this stuff. No matter what she says I'm not going to believe it, so what's the point?
What do you believe in?
What do I believe it? Are you kidding me? What do you think? I'm still trying to deal with the fact that everything I believed was real, wasn't. The whole world, my entire life was a lie. I don't know anything anymore, Morpheus.
That's why we're here.
Why? So I can hear some old lady tell me, what? That I'm this guy that everybody's been waiting for? The one that's supposed to save the world? Come on. How do I respond to that? I can't. It's ridiculous. I mean who am I? I'm nobody, I'm just a guy. What did I do, Morpheus? Why me?
Faith is beyond the reach of whys and why nots. These things are not a matter of cause and effect, Neo. I do not believe things with my mind. I believe them with my heart. In my gut.
And you still believe I'm the One?
Yes I do.
Yeah? What about the other five guys? The five before me? What about them?
Did you believe in them too?
No. I did not. I have never told anyone this, Neo. After I saw the Oracle I thought... no, I misunderstood what she told me. I believed that it was all about me. That I would find the One, not that he would find me.
Listen to me, Neo. I know why you're afraid to go through that door. You can't get free of thinking that I could be wrong. You must believe me. There is a greatness inside of you, Neo. A greatness that is going to lift you to unimaginable heights and that in time will change the world.
Morpheus, I don't know 
I know. That is why it is so important for you to go. Please, Neo, I'm asking you to find whatever respect you may have for me and trust me.
No. No! Morpheus! Don't!
Trinity! Go! Get to the basement. Find the catch basin!
Morpheus, the Oracle... she told me 
She told you exactly what you needed to hear. That's all. Sooner or later, Neo, you're going to realize just like I did the difference between knowing the path and walking the path.
I know. They cut the hardline. This line is not a viable exit.
Are they any agent?
Yes.
Goddamnit!
You have to focus. There is a phone. Wells and Lake. You can make it.
All right 
Go.
I got a fibrillation!
Shit! Apoc?
We found him, Trinity. We finally found him.
What if he isn't the One, Morpheus? How can you be so sure?
Give me your phone.
They'll be able to track it.
We have no choice.
What is he doing?
He's beginning to believe.
How long?
Five minutes. Maybe six.
You can't use that until Neo is out!
I know, Trinity. Don't worry. He's going to make it.
Operator.
I need an exit! Fast!
Cypher?
There was an accident. A fucking car accident. All of a sudden. Boom. Jesus, someone's going to make a believer out of me.
I got you.
Just get me outta here.
Nearest exit is Franklin and Erie. An old appliance store.
I don't believe it! I don't believe it!
He's going to pop!
Whoa! Shit, Neo, you scared the Bejeezus out of me.
Sorry.
No, it's all right.
What are you doing?
Midnight watch.
Is that...?
The Matrix? Yeah.
Do you always look at it encoded?
Have to. The image translators sort of work for the construct programs but there's way too much information to decode the Matrix. You get used to it, though. Your brain does the translating. I don't even see the code. All I see is blonde, brunette, and redhead. You want a drink?
Why you're here?
... Yeah.
Geezus! What a mindfuck. You're here to save the world. You gotta be shitting me. What do you say to something like that?
I'm going to let you in on a little secret here. Now don't tell him I told you this, but this ain't the first time Morpheus thought he found the One.
Really?
You bet your ass. It keeps him going. Maybe it keeps all of us going.
How many were there?
Five. Since I've been here.
What happened to them?
Dead. All dead.
How?
Honestly. Morpheus. He got them all amped up believing in bullshit. I watched each of them take on an agent and I watched each of them die. Little piece of advice: you see an agent, you do what we do; run. Run your ass off.
Thanks... for the drink.
Any time.
You weren't supposed to relieve me.
I know but I felt like taking a shift.
Don't be ridiculous.
We're going to kill him. Do you understand that? He's going to die just like the others.
Morpheus believes he is the One.
Do you?
I... it doesn't matter what I believe.
You don't, do you?
If you have something to say, I suggest you say it to Morpheus.
I intend to, believe me. Someone has to.
Did you hear that?
Hear what?
Are you sure this line is clean?
Yeah, 'course I'm sure.
There's something about him, isn't there?
Don't tell me you're a believer now?
I just keep wondering if Morpheus is so sure, why doesn't he take him to the Oracle? She would know.
Morpheus will take him when he's ready.
Hello, Trinity.
Cypher? Where's Tank?
He had an accident.
An accident?!
You are a beautiful woman. Too bad things had to work out like this.
You killed them.
I'm tired, Trinity. I'm tired of this war, I'm tired of fighting. I'm tired of this ship, of being cold, of eating the same fucking goop every day. But most of all, I'm tired of this jagoff and all of his bullshit.
My God. Morpheus. You gave them Morpheus.
Yes. You see, the truth is, Trinity, that we humans have a place in the future. But it's not here. It's in the Matrix.
The Matrix isn't real!
Oh, I disagree, Trinity. I disagree. I think the Matrix is more real than this world. I mean, all I do is pull a plug here. But there, you watch a man die.
But you're out, Cypher. You can't go back.
That's what you think. They've promised to back me, Trinity. They're going to reinsert my body. I'll go back to sleep and when I wake up, I'll be fat and rich and I won't remember a goddamn thing. It's the American dream.
Goddamn you, Cypher!
Don't hate me, Trinity. I'm just the messenger. And right now I'm going to prove it to you.
... yes.
No!
Who is it?
It's Choi.
You're two hours late.
I know. It's her fault.
You got the money?
Two grand.
Hallelujah! You are my savior, man! My own personal Jesus Christ!
If you get caught using that 
I know, I know. This never happened. You don't exist.
Right...
Something wrong, man? You look a little whiter than usual.
I don't know... My computer...
You ever have the feeling that you're not sure if you're awake or still dreaming?
All the time. It's called mescaline and it is the only way to fly.
He's gonna make it.
No way. Not possible.
Weird.
What?
That's the third white van I've seen.
Should Tank I.D. it?
What?!
Oh, God.
Lieutenant?
Oh shit.
Lieutenant, you were given specific orders 
I'm just doing my job. You gimme that Jurismydicktion and you can cram it up your ass.
The orders were for your protection.
I sent two units. They're bringing her down now.
No, Lieutenant, your men are already dead.
The sewers. Of course.
Hurry!
They won't make it.
The great Morpheus. We meet at last.
And you are?
Smith. I am Agent Smith.
You all look the same to me.
Then the informant is real.
Does that surprise you? It was inevitable.
He'll be contacting us again.
Expect it. Did you get anything from the room?
Their next target. The name is Neo.
We'll need a search running.
It's already begun.
They are dead. In either case 
We have no choice but to continue as planned. Deploy the sentinels. Immediately.
You don't know.
Know what?
Sure...
What's your name?
Bob.
"Bob"? BOB! Bob bob bob. Bob what?
Bob Gorsky.
"Gorsky"? What is that, Polish?
Yes.
Are you tryin' to do some of that Polack humor? Well if that's so, you can just get the hell out of this restaurant!
It's my name.
SHUT UP! I hate them Polish jokes!
A  a tourist.
See, that's EXACTLY what I'm talkin' about! Here! I'LL give you a little humor!
Is he in his room?
Of course he's in his room. All his "friends" are in there.
I saw Michael!
Where?
There!
Hmph! They sure didn't give Andy much to do.
He said he's coming back!
What's in Memphis?
Who knows?! That kid is totally meshuga.
Why is he saying these things?!
They're gonna lynch him!
JESUS CHRIST!!!!!
Why isn't he MOVING??
That was a really hot house!
So your name's not Gorsky.
Don't believe everything you hear.
I'm worried about Andy. His stress level is affecting his work.
Isn't Tony Clifton going on Taxi soon? Maybe that'll chill him out.
Bob, Andy needs to RELAX. See if you can get him away from all this. Take him to Hawaii, or Bali... Find something special. Something nice...
So you've got this big elaborate joke, which is really only funny to two people in the universe. You... and you.
Sure! But WE think it's kickass! Now I get to be Tony. I get to dump the glass of water on someone else's head!
But what's the POINT? How will any of this make you the biggest star in the world?
Yeah, he's just laying low, waitin' for his comeback. God, listen to this! "It was morally wrong to take advantage of such an unstable individual..."
Wow, you can't BUY this kind of publicity!
Why...? Andy, why...?
I used to think you were original.
Hey, that's good! We can make that play. And we'll really drag it out. You get better, you get worse... you die...
FORGET IT. It's in terrible taste! I want nothing to do with this.
If I find out you're behind this, I'll kill you.
What are ya TALKIN' ABOUT?! I was the one saying I didn't believe it!
It's a perfect Kaufman audience.
Yeah. They don't know whether to be sad, or angry.
Uh, yeah. Is this GEORGE SHAPIRO?
Er, yes. Speaking.
"Speaking"! Reeking, seeking, creaking... Freaking!
Can I help you with something?
Yeah! You stay away from that Andy Kaufman, if you know what's good for you!
Who is this? TONY CLIFTON You  you know damn straight who it is. Tony Clifton! A name to respect. A name to fear. Beer. Gear. Deer. Ear.
Look... I don't know what your problem is...
Kaufman's a lying bastard! If you sign him, I'll RUIN YOU!
"Burlesque"?
Andy, I'm calling you up like this because I have the utmost respect for your artistry. But  I need your permission to fire him.
We had a deal!!
I don't know what yer talkin' about. You musta talked to someone else 
Yeah!! I talked to Andy Kaufman!
I don't know nothin' about no Kaufman. He's been ridin' my coattails, smearing my reputation. Been usin' my good name, to get places.
Get off my stage! You're fired!
I GOT A CONTRACT!! I'm gonna take you to the DEPARTMENT OF LABOR!
Ehh  Andy doesn't really like playing casinos. The audiences don't work well for him.
Oh.
Really?! You want Tony Clifton to headline Harrah's Tahoe??
Eh, sure. We're trying to expand our audience base  and I know the college kids really love Andy Kaufman.
Look  I gotta be clear with you. Tony Clifton is NOT Andy Kaufman.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. I know! Wink wink! Nudge nudge!
No, I'm serious. If you book Tony, do NOT EXPECT TO GET ANDY.
I'll take my chances!!
Gene, you misunderstood!! You're not getting BOTH of them! It's physically impossible!
Why's that? You said over and over and over, Tony Clifton is not Andy Kaufman 
Yeah, I KNOW what I said! But  trust me, it's not gonna happen!
Sure it is. Tony called me himself. He yelled at me, insisting that his dressing room be bigger than Andy's. They're both going on tonight, believe me!
I don't see any injury to your neck, Mr. Kaufman.
Are you sure?
Positive.
But my neck hurts... and I have a slight cough...
It's probably just a strained muscle.
Doctor, I think I need a neck brace.
Are you at peace with your family?
Um, yes. I haven't fought with them, since I started here.
Goals are important.
I stopped drinking. I gave up drugs. And I'm meditating three hours a day. It's the center of my life...
We are all impressed.
Excuse me, Andy...
Yes, your Holiness?
This is very difficult for me to say... but  perhaps it would be best if you didn't attend the retreat.
Why?? I... I attend every year.
Yes  we do not doubt your devotion to TM. But we feel that perhaps... you and the program have grown apart philosophically.
"Philosophically"?
The wrestling... the sexist remarks... the foul language... these things are not becoming of an enlightened individual. It seems you have no respect for anything.
Please! You've GOT to let me take the classes! It's how I keep myself BALANCED!!
It is apparently not working.
So HELP ME! All I wanna do is MEDITATE!!
Andy, don't raise your voice. We don't wish your presence here.
Hey Andy, good show.
Oh George, this is Bob Zmuda. Bob and I have been buddies for years.
I'm gonna quit.
What?!?
Each show is worse than the next.
Are you nuts?! 40 million people watch you every week!
So? What do they know?
Absolutely nothing! That's the beauty! It's credibility. You make them love you... and then later, on your special, you'll screw with their heads!
Give me the book.
No! Andy, don't do it 
They're asking for it.
I dunno about this... What will my mother think?
She'll say, "Now my son is a man."
It's so dirty.
Nah. The girls sponge off between johns.
"Was this in actuality Andy Kaufman? And if it was Andy Kaufman, is Andy Kaufman crazy?"
Boy, they totally fell for it! I'm only acting crazy!
Look at this! An evil Russian! Ooo, here's an evil Nazi  he likes to fight dirty! Hey, here's an evil Japanese guy!
What is this, World War Two...?
You know, I always wanted to be a badguy wrestler...
No offense, pal, but I just don't think you're built for it. These he men'll kick your ass!! They're huge!
"... has been rushed to a nearby hospital, where doctors are checking him for possible paralysis. His parents are at his bedside. Fans will best remember Kaufman as lovable Latka on television's Taxi"...
It's a rave! Boy, if I ever fake my death, they'll really miss me.
It's working for Elvis.
Sir, do you have a problem?
Yeah, my problem is you're tired.
I, I was asked to do this material  
Sure, because your new stuff's a bunch of crap. Kaufman, people are sick of you. The wrestling... the hoaxes...
Hey  that stuff gets writtenup in the papers 
Who gives a shit?! It's not funny!
I was very original!
Yeah, exactly  "was"! But now, you're creatively bankrupt. In fact, Ladies and Gentlemen, Kaufman's so desperate, he PAID me to do this tonight!! I'm a plant. It's just a fresh coat of paint on an old brokendown routine. Isn't that true???
This is great. The crowd's gonna love this! Hey... do you still think any of those cowgirls are still alive?
I dunno. If they were, they'd be pushin' 80.
Well, call SAG. It'd be cool to get one on the show. I want the evening to build and build. It's gonna have the most incredible ending: Singers, dancers, the "Hallelujah Chorus"  then the sky opens, and Santa Claus comes flying down!
And you say, "Santa, what am I gettin' for Christmas?" And he says, "Cancer!"
No! NO NO NO! None of that! I want this show to be positive!
Tthere wasn't a reason to purposely hurt me 
You're a wimp.
My father said I should've gotten a lawyer !
Then your father's a wimp.
And you're just poor white trash!
Tthere wasn't a reason to purposely hurt me 
You're a wimp.
My father said I should've gotten a lawyer !
Then your father's a wimp.
And you're just poor white trash!
I'm not comfortable with the last sketch. I DON'T do drug humor!
Andy, it'll be fine! It's what we're known for! "Maui? "Wowie!"
You're not listening to me 
Don't worry! The kids will love it 
But I don't do drugs! And I don't enjoy making light of them! I was promised creative control!
Go to commercial, man! Get off the stage!
I said I didn't want to do the sketch.
GET OFF!
DON'T TOUCH ME!
Gosh, you scored! Look at all those goodies!
Buzz off. Go patronize somebody else.
Hey, I hope you didn't take that stuff I said seriously. It was just part of the show! It's like the old days, when a carnival barker would try to rile up the crowd.
Oh. So you were just pretending to be an asshole.
Hi...
Hi... am I late?
No, I'm sure we'll be fine.
Popcorn?
No thanks.
I really want one. One large tub of popcorn, please, extra butter.
Andy, the theater's that way!
Hey, I love movie theater popcorn... but that doesn't mean I have to sit through "On Golden Pond."
Why did you call me? The last person I ever expected to get a call from was you.
Gosh. Gee, Lynne... I was just so impressed with your wrestling moves. EXT. MOVIE THEATER  DAY
Hi...
Hi... am I late?
No, I'm sure we'll be fine.
Popcorn?
No thanks.
I really want one. One large tub of popcorn, please, extra butter.
Andy, the theater's that way!
Hey, I love movie theater popcorn... but that doesn't mean I have to sit through "On Golden Pond."
Why did you call me? The last person I ever expected to get a call from was you.
Gosh. Gee, Lynne... I was just so impressed with your wrestling moves.
You were impressed with something. It's pretty odd when a man sports a hardon that large on national television.
Oh! Uh, I hope I didn't offend you.
I'm here, ain't I?
Do you wanna to go to Memphis and get married?
Do I wanna go to Memphis and get married?
Yes.
Why Memphis?
Because Memphis is the wrestling capital of the world! I'll go in the ring, and I'll announce that I will shave my head and marry any woman who beats me! Then you'll come up, we'll wrestle and I'll let you win! Then you'll scalp me, and we'll get married on Letterman, like Tiny Tim did on Carson... right there on the show! What do you say???
And all this will be for real?
If you want...
Ooo, the little lady's upset. Well I say  get back in the kitchen!
No! YOU get in the kitchen. I'm gonna make you dry my dishes!
Is this an act  or are you addicted to causing trouble??
I can shtop whenever I want...
Then stop treating me like a fucking prop.
II'm sorry. I got caught up in the action...!
Go away.
It's me.
Oh, it's open.
I brought you Haagen Dazs. Chocolate.
I don't deserve Haagen Daz. I'm a horrible person.
Andy, you're not horrible. You're just... complicated.
You don't know the real me.
Andy... there is no real you.
Jesus, Andy! Can they cure it?
They don't know... they've gotta run more tests.
Have you told your family?
No, NO! Not yet. I feel bad  I've jerked 'em around so many times.
How can you be so casual??!
Even if I'm dying  I still need clean socks.
You're NOT DYING!
Okay. You're probably right.
Excuse me  ?
Do you wanna wrestle? It's a good way of breaking the ice. That instant physical intimacy really brings two people together.
What are you talking about?! We just met an hour ago.
No no no, it's not sex! I mean  it can lead to sex... but really, it's just wrestling.
I don't wanna talk about it!
What do you mean?
I mean  uh  the colors in the sky are so vibrant. I love this time of day.
I've never understood that. It's just... getting dark. But I like you! Hey! Why don't we fill the car with gas, drive to Tijuana, and GET MARRIED???
Andy... we don't want the viewer to get out of their chair. They might change the channel.
But it's funny! It's a practical joke. They'll get frustrated!
Andy... uhh... this network has a longstanding policy: The viewer must be able to see the program.
But it's only for thirty seconds!
Five.
Twenty!
Ten.
Deal.
Right...
Okay, great! So let's reset!
Cue the commercial!
These kinds of things go on everyday at the networks, only you never see it, because they cut to commercials. Now for sure they're gonna fire me, so if you want to see me again, you'll have to come to Memphis...
Maybe I should talk to the natives. Shoom boom boo ba! Shoom boom boo ba 
Andy!
Oh!
But I've got a sports show. Championship wrestling, at five.
You know that's not what I meant! Look, I'm gonna put my foot down! No more playing alone. You wanna perform, you GOTTA have an audience!
Bbut I have them.
No! That is NOT an audience! That is PLASTER! An audience is people made of flesh! They  live and breathe! Got it?!
Bbut... we saw... your neck...
Nah, it's phony baloney  I faked the whole thing. It didn't hurt at all. It was just a yoga move. I tucked my head in.
Bbut... we saw... your neck...
Nah, it's phony baloney  I faked the whole thing. It didn't hurt at all. It was just a yoga move. I tucked my head in.
Andrew  HOW DARE YOU!! For all we knew, you were DYING! Look at your mother  she's still shaking!
But that's it. I needed you to believe! Our family will be in the newspapers. People will look, and they'll be touched. Because your emotions were honest!
So, Mr. Besserman, same slot tomorrow...?
Eh, I dunno... Andy. I'm... thinkin' of letting you go...
You're firing me?? You don't even pay me!
Look  I don't wanna seem insulting. But... your act is like amateur hour: Singalongs... puppets... playing records...
What do you want? "Take my wife, please"??
Sure! Comedy! Make jokes about the traffic. Do impressions. Maybe a little blue material...
I don't swear. I  I don't do what everyone else does!
Well, everyone else gets this place cookin'! Pal, it's hard for me to move the booze when you're singin' "Pop Goes The Weasel."
Hey, I really enjoyed your set.
Tank you veddy much.
So I understand you're from Lithuania?
No. Caspiar.
Caspiar? I haven't heard of that.
It's a veddy small island in de Caspian Sea. It sunk. GEORGE Oh. Hm. I'm uh, sorry. Well, look, I'm probably out of my mind  but I think you're very interesting. If you ever need representation... we should talk.
People love... comedians.
I'm not a comedian. I have no talent. I'm a songanddance man.
You show a lot of promise... but... my concern is I don't know where to book you. You're not a standup... your act doesn't exactly translate to films... help me... where do you see yourself?
I've always wanted to play Carnegie Hall.
Andy, c'mon IN! Thanks for flyin' out here!!
The stewardess let me keep my headphones.
That's... terrific! But I got something better. This is BIG... You are getting a onceina lifetime, unbelievably lucrative opportunity to star on... a PRIMETIME NETWORK SITCOM!!!!
Sitcom...?
And this is a CLASS ACT! It's the guys who did the Mary Tyler Moore and Bob Newhart shows! It takes place in a taxi stand! And you're gonna be the Fonzie!
I'm  Fonzie? GEORGE NO! The Fonzie! The crazy breakout character! The guy that all the kids impersonate and put on their lunchboxes!
George, I hate sitcoms.
HANG ON, you ain't heard the best part! ABC has seen your foreign man character, and they want to turn him into  "Latka," a lovable, goofy mechanic!!!
No.
"No"? "No" to which part??
No to the whole thing. None of it sounds good.
Andy... this is every comedian's dream.
I told you, I'm not a comedian. And sitcoms are the lowest form of entertainment: Stupid jokes and canned laughter.
Bbut, this is classy... they did Bob Newha
I'm not interested. I want to create my own material.
You have to do it.
I refuse.
LISTEN, you arrogant putz! I've been in this business for twenty years! I know! If you walk away from this opportunity, you will never, NEVER see another one like it again!!!!
Okay. Fine, I'll do it. But I have a few terms.
Of course! That's what negotiations are for.
Are you makin' fun of me ? This is RIDICULOUS!
Those are my terms.
They're IMPOSSIBLE!! Jesus! I mean  "two guaranteed guest shots for Tony Clifton"??! Who is this TONY CLIFTON?!
He's a Vegas entertainer. I used to do impressions of him. We sorta... got in a fight over that.
Andy?
Hi George!
Eh, hi, Andy. Look, this Tony Clifton... is he performing anywhere?
Of course. But only on Monday nights.
That's alright. Where...?
Andy!
What's up?
Look, I'm sorry. They're assholes! But we work in a creative business. You can't predict what people are gonna like 
The ONLY reason I did Taxi was so I could have my own Special!
Tell you what. I'll book you on some concerts, and meanwhile, we'll show the Special around... see if somebody wants to buy it 
Yeah, we can have a garage sale. "Hey look, I got a floor lamp and a network TV Special for only fifty cents!"
You signed for five years  So four years, seven months.
Okay... I'll go back. But just let them know, first they ain't gettin' Latka. They're gettin' Tony!
I'm sorry, George...
You're DAMN RIGHT you're sorry! And you  you're the road manager! You should be watchin' out for him!
When you play the Midwest and South, you DON'T MINDFUCK THESE PEOPLE! It's not postmodern  it's rude. If you wanna perform in Texas, you give 'em Mighty Mouse! You give 'em Elvis!!
But George, I like to push the boundaries...
And that's great. But do it in LA and New York! There you experiment! Show up with a sleeping bag and take a nap on stage! I don't care!
How long would they let me sleep?
I don't know! Andy... you need to look inside: Who are you trying to entertain? The audience... or yourself?
Hi, George! Good to hear from you!
Hi, Andy. How's the weather up there?
Oh, you know the Bay Area! Always foggy!
I'm here with Ed over at Taxi. There's been some trouble with Tony.
Oh no! Did he get hurt?
Oh dear! George, this is gonna kill Tony. He's waited his whole life for this break.
There'll be other shots.
You're so proud. You're like some retarded kid comin' home from school: "Look, Dad, I got an F!"
But wasn't it funny?
"Funny"? I dunno. But "intriguing"... "mindboggling"... perhaps "headacheinducing"... sure. Like, that moment, when you both came onstage...
George... I'm at a stage where the audience expects me to constantly shock them. But short of faking my death, or setting the theater on fire, I don't know what else to do. 'Cause I've always got to be one step ahead of them.
But I feel you're extending this philosophy to real life. It's obsessive. Nothing's ever on the level anymore.
That means it was a success. I woke up the audience  like punk rock! Here, take this.
No, I'm not gonna take it. If I take it I'll break my back.
They're having a laugh...
WRONG! You haven't given them any clues that it's a parody!
That's because they've only seen it once. But I'll do it again, and again, and AGAIN... They'll catch on!
Andy, do you realize you don't do comedy anymore? Where's that sweet guy who used to do "Here I come to save the day!"? Please, enough with the wrestling! You've lost touch with reality!
What, you don't think I can beat him?
He is the Southern Heavyweight Champion. He'll kill you. First, you pissoff women. Then you pissoff the South. Then you get killed! And I did the bookings.
We were just trying to push the envelope 
You're BLIND! There is no envelope anymore!! It hurts me to say this... but there's only one solution  I don't want you two to ever work together again.
Maybe I can turn it into a bit. I can go back on the show, and say it was rigged. Demand a recount...
Andy! You don't get it! They don't want you back.
Hey! Our first phone call! Hello?
Andy... it's me. I've got some crummy news. Taxi's been canceled.
The world thinks Andy Kaufman sucks. So I was just giving 'em what they want...
Andy, they don't think you suck. They've just... lost a reason to love you.
No, it's true. I have lung cancer.
That's ridiculous. You don't even smoke.
I  I got some freaky rare kind. It's called largecelled carcinoma.
What was that all about?
It's visualization therapy. He's helping me turn inward and fight the disease.
You must take a little pleasure in it.
Of course! But that doesn't mean I don't need everyone's support! I can't be surrounded by negative energy.
Andy, you're surrounded by what you create. You are the KING of negative energy.
Yyeah? Well, then it has to stop! Because if these bad vibes get out... then everyone will be talkin' about how sick I am, and it becomes a selffulfilling prophecy, and then  I'm dead.
So how can I help you...?
I wanna go back to work and put on a happy show. The best show anybody's ever seen!
Do you wanna tour the clubs?
No clubs. I wanna reach the TOP! Carnegie Hall...!
I don't care about the money. I just want the show to deliver.
So who's gonna pay for it?
Tony Clifton.
You know Tony doesn't have that kind of money.
Then he'll borrow it. I know Tony better than you do. Even if he has to work another ten years to pay it off, he'll do it!
I can't move my arm.
You've got good days and bad days.
My hair is coming out.
Yeah...
Did your  doctor say it's okay for you to go back to work?
Ehhh, you know those guys. If he had his way, I'd be stuck in the hospital, running tests all day. And anyway, I've found a new guy who's gonna be able to instantly remove the cancer.
Really?
Yeah! He's a psychic surgeon in the Philippines, and he's amazing! He rubs you and sucks the disease right out!
...if he's smart he'll approach from the front, pass, and take you from the back. How well do you hear?
Pretty well.
I'm gonna spray your suit jackets. It'll be invisible in this light, but you'll stand out like a zebra for us. They told me you checked out a .44 Charter Arms Bulldog.
Yes.
Good. You'll load these, Ever fire them?
Glaser Safety Slugs?
...commercially prohibited. Number Twelve shot in liquid Teflon in a copper casing. On impact it all opens up in the target. Expect the recoil. They're hot loads. Body armor?
Kevlar Second Chance.
I hope you have a second chance...
Because he's gone for the head shot seven out of eight times'
You got it.
Let's walk the route.
That's the same atrocious aftershave you wore in court three years ago.
I keep getting it for Christmas.
Did you get my card?
I got it. Thank you.
And how is Officer Stuart? The one who was the first to see my basement.
Stuart is fine.
Emotional problems, I hear. He was a very promising young officer. Do you ever have any problems, Will?
No.
Of course, you don't. I'm glad you came. My callers are all professional. Clinical psychiatrists from cornfield colleges somewhere. Secondraters, the lot.
Dr. Bloom showed me your article on surgical addiction in the journal of Clinical Psychiatry.
And?
Very interesting, even to a layman.
A layman..., layman. Interesting term. So many experts on government grants. And you say you're a 'layman?' But it was you who caught me, wasn't it, Will? Do you know how you did it'
You've read the transcript. It's all there.
No it's not. Do you know how you did it Will?
It's in the transcript. What does it matter now?
It doesn't matter to me, Will.
I want you to help me, Dr. Lecktor.
Yes, I thought so.
It's about Atlanta and Birmingham.
Yes.
You read about it, I'm sure.
In the papers. I don't tear out the articles. I wouldn't want them to think I was dwelling on anything morbid. You want to know how he's choosing them, don't you?
I thought you would have some ideas.
Why should I tell you?
There are things you don't have. Research materials... I could speak to the Chief of Staff...?
Chilton? Gruesome, isn't he? He fumbles at your head like a freshman pulling at a panty girdle. He actually tries to give me a Thematic and Apperception test. Hah. Sat there waiting for MF13 to come up. It's a card with a woman in bed and a man in the foreground. I was supposed to avoid a sexual interpretation. I laughed in his face. Never mind, it's boring.
You'll get to see the file on this case. And there's another reason.
Pray tell.
I thought you might be curious to find our if you're smarter than the person I'm looking for.
Then by implication, you think that you are smarter than me, since you caught me.
No. I knew that I'm not smarter than you are.
Then how did you catch me, Will?
You had disadvantages.
What disadvantage?
You're insane.
You're very tan, Will.
Don't think you can persuade me with appeals to my intellectual vanity.
I don't think I'll persuade you. You'll do it or you won't. Dr. Bloom is working an it anyway, and he's the best...
Do you have the file with you
Yes.
Pictures?
Yes.
Let me have them, and I might consider it.
No.
Do you dream much, Will?
Goodbye, Dr. Lecktor.
You haven't threatened to take away my books yet.
What were the yards like?
Big backyards, fences, some hedges, why?
Because, my dear Will, if this Pilgrim imagines he has a relationship with the full moon, he might go outside and look at it. Have you seen blood in moonlight, Will? It appears quite black. If one were nude, it would be better to have outdoor privacy for this sort of thing.
That's interesting.
It's not 'interesting'. You thought of it before.
Yes. I'd considered it.
You came here to look at me, Will. To get the old scent again, didn't you?
I want your opinion.
I don't have one right now.
When you do have one I'd like to hear it.
May I keep the file?
I haven't decided yet.
I'll study it, Will. When you get more files, I'd like to see them, too. You can call me. When I have to call my lawyer, they bring me a telephone. Would you like to give me your home number?
No.
Do you know how you caught me, Will?
Goodbye, Dr. Lecktor. You can leave messages for me at the number on the file.
I wanted to congratulate you for the job you did on Mr. Lounds. I admired it enormously. What a cunning boy you are, Will.
What do you want?
You know Lounds's enlightened me on one thing: your confinement in the mental hospital. My attorney should have brought that our in court.
I'm worn out with you crazy sonsof bitches. If you've got something to say, Lecktor, say it.
I want to help you, Will. You'd be more comfortable if you relaxed with yourself. We don't invent our natures, They're issued to us. Along with our lungs and pancreas and everything else. Why fight it?
Fight what?
When you were so depressed after you shot Mr. Garrett Jacob Hobbs to death, it wasn't the act that got you down. Didn't you really feel so bad because killing him felt so good? And why shouldn't it feel good?! It must feel good to God. God does it all the time!
I don't believe in God.
You should, Will. God's terrific! He dropped a church roof on thirty four of His worshippers in Texas last Wednesday night. Just as they were groveling to Him and singing a hymn. Don't you think that felt good? He wouldn't begrudge you two measly murders.
Why does it feel good?
It feels good because: if you do as God does, enough times, you become as God is: powerful...
Will it keep them out?
Yeah...
How many turtle eggs you think are in here?
In this hatchery? Forty to fifty.
Crabs would get most of the newborns before they made it to the sea, huh?
Yeah, but not now... These will all make it... guaranteed.
It's a precaution... Why don't you run down to the bay. They got a swimming float.
I'll hang around in here. I'll just be in the kitchen, Mom...
What is he? Afraid to leave you alone with me now?' He read the Tattler piece, didn't he?
Is there anything I need to know to see about Mom?
No. You're very wellprotected. No one can find our where you are.
Barry's mom had this newspaper. It said you killed the guy in Minnesota and were in a mental hospital. Is it true?
Yes.
I figured I'd ask you...
I was in the psychiatric wing. It bothers you, finding out I was in there... doesn't it?
I told my dad before he died, I'd take care of Mom. And I'll do it. This guy wants to kill you?
We don't know that.
Are you gonna kill him?
No. It's just my job to find him. I was in the hospital after Garrett Jacob Hobbs.
How did it happen?
Hobbs was insane. He was attacking college girls and he killed them.
How?
With a knife. I found a curly piece of metal in the clothes of one of the girls. The kind of shred a pipe threader makes. I was taking a look at steam fitters, plumbers. It took a long time. In one place there was a resignation letter from a man named Hobbs. I saw it and it was..., peculiar. I was going up these stairs to Hobbs' apartment. I was halfway up when he shoved his wife down at me. She was dying. I sent the officer with me to call a SWAT team. But I could hear kids in there and screaming. I couldn't wait.
You went in the apartment?
Yes. Hobbs had one of his daughters from behind. He was cutting her. I shot him.
Did the girl die?
No.
She got all right?
...after a while.
And Hobbs died?
...yes.
What kind of coffee do you like?
Huh?
You like that Colombian stuff, don't you?
What do you want?
Are you George Sherman?
Yes. Who are you?
My name's Will Graham. I...
Oh, Jesus... Come in. Honey...!
We're fine. Fine. We're all well. We're okay! That man, Crawford, called and... told me... ...how 'bout a drink? Coffee or something?
No, I'm okay. I just wanted to... ...stop by and...
I can't thank you enough, I...
Thanks for the lift.
I'll come inside with you, if you like, but Mr. Crawford said you'd probably want to be alone.
That's right.
There's a VTR setup waiting in your hotel room, that you asked for. They transferred the home movies of both families onto halfinch VHS.
Thanks.
Meet point's up ahead!
Go on to the house.
Lt. Fisk said...
Go on to the house...
It's Will Graham. Is Molly there, Mr. Swenson?
Well, how you doin', Mr. Graham?! You sure are in the center of a storm. Burning up lots of taxpayer's dollars, too, I bet. On the news they said he was a white man. He isn't really, is he?
Sure he is. Blond. Probably Scandinavian, too...
You going back down to Florida after?
Yes. Is Molly there?
My grandboy's been eatin' a ton of breakfast every day. Been out riding. Must be the good air. You oughta see that little booger eat. I'll bet he's gained ten pounds. Molly's out in the motor home...
I know... 'Out in the good air...'
What's that?
Tell her I called.
He stopped by to see me at the shop before he came out here.
What did he want?
He asked how you are.
And you said?
I said you are fine, he should leave you the hell alone.
I'm a forensic specialist, Molly. You've seen my diploma? I got a diploma and everything.
You mended a crack in the wallpaper with your diploma. You are open and easy now... It took you a lot of work to get to that...
We have it good, don't we?
All the things that happened to you before make you know that...
What the hell can I do?
What you've already decided. You're not really asking.
If I were?
Stay here with me. Me. Me. Me. And Kevin. That's selfish, huh?
I don't care. He'll never see me or know my name. If we find him, the police will have to take him down. Not me, I'm just looking at evidence.
Molly?
Huh? Will? Is that you?
It's me. I'll call you tomorrow, sweetheart. Go back to sleep. I love you...
Mmmmh... I love you, too, Will. Good night.
Hello, hotshot!
Hey, baby! Where are you?
At the store. You doin' some good?
None you'd notice. I'm lonely...
Me, too. And very erotic...
Tell me about yourself.
Which part? That or the daytoday.
Let's keep it the daytoday stuff. How's Kevin?
Kevin's fine. He had to recover the turtle eggs you two fenced in. The dogs dug them up. Tell me what you're doing.
Eating junk food. They don't have a lock on anything, Molly. There's not enough information. Or I haven't done enough with it...
Will you be in Atlanta for a while? I'm not buggin' you about coming home, I just wondered.
I don't know. I'm goin' up to Baltimore this afternoon.
To do what?
I have to see somebody.
I'm thinking about painting the kitchen. What color do you like, Will? Are you there?
Yeah. Ah... yellow, let's paint it yellow.
Yellow's a bad color for me. I'll look green at breakfast.
Blue, then.
Blue is cold.
Hey, goddamn it, paint it shitbrown for all I care... Look, I'm sorry. When I come home, we'll go to the paint store together and get some chips and...
Molly, dear Molly. Go to bed now, baby...
I love you...
...sorry, Molly. I'm sorry this happened to you.
You didn't do it to me, Will; it's happened to us. And if I survive the wallpaper we'll be okay... He's after you now, isn't he?
He didn't know you had been in a mental institution. Be asked me if I knew. I said yes. I wanted to talk to him. He said he wanted to bring it up to you. Face to face.
Good for him. Thanks a lot, Freddie! Kevin. We're going grocery shopping.
You remember when we first met? And were together alone in that room. And the exhilaration was too much to hold on to. And then something flickered across your face like a shadow and I asked you what was wrong?
I remember.
Do you remember what you said?
Yes. I said this is too good to live...
Can I have one of your cigarettes?
You haven't smoked in two years.
I'd like one of your cigarettes, please.
Have you ever omitted telling me. things before?
No.
Then why?
I wanted it over fast. It felt dirty to not tell you.
Can you quit?
No.
And... where are things?
Where we're at is nowhere. We have nothing. We're running out of time.
What will you do?
I have to go back to Birmingham.
Is Crawford going with you?
No. I have to be in there... alone. Maybe there's something for me if I know how he feels and thinks.
William: you are going to make yourself sick or get yourself killed.
You should go to Montana. Stay with Kevin's grandparents. They haven't seen him for a while. I'll come and get you afterwards...
Will...
Hello.
I was out in the garden. Mama came out and told me when she saw it on TV. Why didn't you call me?
Mama was probably asleep.
Will? Are you okay?
Not too bad. I'll be here a few days longer. I want to see you.
I want to see you, too.
Today's Wednesday. By Friday I ought to...
Mama has all Kevin's uncles and aunts coming down from Cheyenne next week and...
Come home with me.
Will, they never get to see Kevin and a few more days...
What's this Mama shit?
It's what Kevin called her when he was little...
What's the problem, Molly?
I came up here after Kevin's father died. They were very supportive and helped me adjust. I got myself together. I've gotten myself together now, too.
Small difference: I'm not dead, yet.
Will? You could come up here.
They don't want me up there. Every time they look at me I remind them... If they thought about it, they'd want you. Bur all they really want's the boy. And they'll take you. But they don't want to see me...
That's not true.
Okay. They're full of shit and they make me sick...
Maybe we should give it some time...
Yeah. That's great. A little time. I tell you what, buckaroo... See you around.
Let's forget who said what to whom...
You got a deal...
Our people swear he wore surgeons' gloves the whole time. They dusted everything.
The report didn't mention nails and eyes.
Why do you think he took his gloves off?
Mrs. Leeds was a goodlooking woman. I'd want to touch her skin in an intimate situation, wouldn't you?
'Intimate? !"
Yes. 'Intimate.' They had privacy. Everybody else was dead.
He may have a history of biting  barroom fights or child abuse.
He only bit women so far, right?
That's all we know about. Most of the time in sex assaults the bite mark has a livid spot in the center. A suck mark. These don't. So, for him, biting may be a fighting pattern as much as sexual behavior. You could try emergency room personnel, treatment for bite wounds. I know that's pretty thin... He bites a lot.
What's average?
Sex murder: three. He likes to bite. Six bad ones in Mrs. Leeds. Eight in Mrs. Jacobi... ...that's all I have.
The Commissioner was saying you were the one that caught Dr. Lecktor three years ago. He killed nine people, didn't he?
Nine that we know of. Two didn't die.
What happened to them?
One's on the respirator at a hospital in Baltimore. The other is in a private mental hospital in Denver.
What did the psychologists say was wrong with Lecktor?
Psychologists call him a sociopath. They don't know what else to call him.
What would you call him?
To yourself...
I call him a monster.
I understand he cut you pretty good...
What about the dog?
It's at the vet's. The kids brought it in with a puncture wound in the abdomen. icepick or an awl.
Was the dog wearing a collar with the Leeds' name on it?
No.
Did the Jacobis in Birmingham have a dog?
This is Will Graham. Can I help you?
No. I can help you.
I don't understand.
Atlanta and Birmingham.
Do you know something about that?
Why do you think I called?
I get a lot of calls. Most of them are from people who say they know things.
Talk to them a few minutes and you can tell they don't have the capacity to even understand what's going on. Do you?
You tell me what you know about him. I'll tell you whether you're right or not.
Let's get straight who we've talking about. Are you the man I'm interested in?
I don't think I'll tell you.
He's righthanded.
Most people are.
He's misunderstood.
Cut the general crap.
He's very strong physically.
That's true.
He's white and six feet tall. You haven't told me anything yet.
Describe exactly what you think he did to Mrs. Leeds and I'll tell you if you're right or not.
I don't want to do that,
Goodbye.
Linda King's desk.
Hi, Linda. ..
Linda doesn't come in nights.
Maybe you can help me. This is Bob Greer of Blaine & Edwards Publishing Company. Dr. Bloom asked me to send a copy of 'The Psychiatrist and the Law' to someone. Linda never sent me the address and phone number.
She'll be in, in the morning...
I have to catch Federal Express within about five minutes. I'd be immensely appreciative if you'd pull it out of her Rolodex for me.
She doesn't have a Rolodex.
I'll bet she has a call caddy right next to her phone.
Yeah...
Well, zip that little pointer right on down to the letter G.
Okay.
We're looking for Graham. The man the book is supposed to go to is a Mr. Will Graham.
Federal Bureau of Investigation, Tenth and Pennsylvania, Washington, D.C.
Now I'll bet it has his home address there, too
3680 DeSoto Highway. Marathon, Florida.
Thank you very much.
Dr. Lecktor will stay in his room. That is absolutely the only place where he is not put in full body restraints. One wall of his room is a double barrier. I will have a chair put just outside.
I might have to show him some material that could stimulate him.
As long as it's on soft paper. You may... Find this curious.
The consensus around here is that the only person who has demonstrated any practical understanding of Dr. Hannibal Lecktor is you, Mr. Graham. Can you tell me anything about him?
No.
When you saw Dr. Lecktor's murders, their 'style,' so to speak, were you able to reconstruct his fantasies? And did that help you identify him?
I want to see Lecktor now.
Uh... sure...
It's Will Graham...
Well, it's about goddamn time! I have a note here, or two pieces of a note, that appears to be from the man who killed those people in Atlanta and....
Where did you get it?!
Can you read it to me?
It's written on toilet tissue. 'My dear Dr. Lecktor, I wanted to tell you I'm delighted that you've taken an interest in me. I know that you alone can understand what I'm becoming. 'I know you alone understand the reality of the people who die to help me in these things, understand that they are only elements undergoing change to fuel the radiance of what I am becoming. Just as the source of light is burning. Mr. Graham, there's a hole torn and punched out, then it says... 'I have a complete collection of your press notices. I think of them as unfair. As unfair as mine. The "Tooth Fairy." What could be more inappropriate. Investigator Graham interests me. Very purposeful looking. I hope we can correspond. There's another piece missing here. I'll read the bottom part. 'After I hear back from you, I might send you something wet. Signed: Avid Fan. It has teethmarks pressed in it at the bottom.
In a holding cell.
How long can you keep Lecktor out without him getting suspicious?
Three, four hours.
Come in.
Dr. Chilton.
Yes?
When we were cleaning out Dr. Lector's cell, he heard us coming and hid something in a book... We got him out of there and dug around...
Do you have it?
Yeah. It's right here.
Put it down on my desk blotter and don't touch it again. Has anyone else handled it except you?
No.
Are you cold? Would you like a blanket?
Was I in an accident?
No, Mr. Lounds. You'll be just fine.
My back hurts, my skin. Did I get burned? I hope to God I'm not burned.
Burned? Burned. No. You just rest there. I'll be right back.
Let me lie down. Listen, I want to call my office. My God, I'm in a Stryker frame. My back's broken. Tell me the truth.
What am I doing here?
Atoning, Mr. Lounds.
Do you know who I am, Mr. Lounds?
I don't want to know.
According to you I'm a sexual failure. An animal, you said. You know now, don't you?
Yes.
Do you feel privileged?
I'm very scared.
Do you pray to God, Mr. Lounds?
Yes.
Do you believe God is in attendance here, Mr. Lounds?
I don't know...
In a little while I'll help you understand.
Open your eyes, Mr. Lounds.
No. I don't want to see you.
Mr. Lounds, you're a reporter. You're here to titillate your readers. If you don't open your eyes, I'll staple your eyelids to your forehead.
Look at the screen. That is William Blake's 'The Great Red Dragon and The Woman Clothed with the Sun.' Do you see?
Yes...
Do you see?
Yes.
Do you see?
Yes.
Mrs. Leeds harlequined with blood, her husband beside her. Do you see?
Yes.
Mrs. Jacobi after her changing. The Dragon rampant. Do you see?
Yes.
Freddie Lounds. Your photograph. Do you see?
Oh, God.
Do you see?
Please, no.
'No' what?
Not me.
Are you a man?
Yes.
Do you imply that I'm a queer?
God, no.
Are you queer, Mr. Lounds?
No.
Now you will read this into the tape recorder.
'I have had a great privilege. I have seen with wonder the strength of the Red Dragon. All I wrote about him before was lies from Will Graham. He made me write them. Now I understand. 'Will Graham: you will learn from my own lips how much you have to dread. Because I was forced to lie, he will be more merciful to me than to you. 'I will be a testament to the truth, now. About his work. About his becoming.'
You did very well. I apologize for the crude images. Next time I'll have film stock that doesn't need lights.
You'll let me go now?
You will tell the truth?
Absolutely,
Good. We'll seal your promise with...
THEY WILL FIND OUT ABOUT YOU. THEY WILL LOCK YOU IN A PLACE WORSE THAN BROTHER BUDDY'S.
No.
THEY'LL MAKE YOU BE A PIECE OF SHIT AGAIN. THEY'LL MAKE YOU BE A HARELIP AGAIN. YOU BETTER GIVE ME WHAT I WANT!
No!
SHE'LL FUCK OTHER PEOPLE. PRETTY PEOPLE. SHE'LL PUT IN HER MOUTH THEIR...
Shut up. Stop. Stop it.
YOU GIVE ME HER AND THE SHERMANS! YOU BETTER GIVE ME BOTH!
I want her! I want her alive... I'm going to keep her! YOU HEAR ME!!!
Ms. McClain, I'm Francis Dollarhyde. I came about the low light level infrared film stock.
Put your back against the door. Come forward three steps until you feel the tile on your feet and there will be a stool just to your left.
Can you give me an idea of the conditions...
Shooting at maybe eight feet. I can't use any lights.
What's being photographed?
The activities of nocturnal animals.
When do you need it?
In eight days.
Let me stick this in the black hole.
The 1000 C Infrared Sensitive Film must be handled in total darkness. I keep the samples straight by touch code. It's still easier to handle than a 1200 series. Think it'll do?
It'll do fine.
I'll take you.
No, thanks. I manage very well. I'll order you twelve hundred feet: of 1000 C tomorrow.
Ride with me.
Thanks, but I'll take the bus. I do it all the time.
Dandridge is a condescending prick. Ride with me. It would be because I want you to.
Come on in. How about a gin and tonic?
Tonic will be fine.
In the kitchen.
How did you come to Gateway?
They had to shape up their employment practices to keep this defense contract.
You worked out well.
You know you speak very well, although you avoid fricatives and sibilants in your speech. At the Riker Institute for the Blind. I trained in speech therapy for speech and hearing impaired children...
I'll probably go back to it someday.
Uhhuh.
Ready to tell me what kind of 'outing' this is?
It's a surprise.
That was nice of you to think of that.
I made you a gin and tonic. It's by the side of the sofa...
Is that you. D?
Yes, are you okay...?!
I'm fine.
Good morning... If you show me where things are, I'll make us some coffee...
No! Don't go back into the house... It's too nice outside.
My sister's coming by to pick me up for brunch. Why don't you come, too?
I have work to do at the plant.
I'll get my purse.
I'll get it. Stay right here. You look very good in the sun...
Do you want a Coke or something, Reba?
I'm fine, Francis.
Reba...
Francis? Where are you?
The developing room. I need to... see you.
I want to see you, too, Francis... Should I come over?
No. Reba...?
Are you okay...?
I'll see you later. All right?
You'll come by?
Yes.
Who is it?
It's me.
Who?
Me.
Francis...?
Am I alone in this room? Are you here... Why are you doing this?!
Some remarkable events have happened in Birmingham and Atlanta. Do you know what I'm talking about?
Two groups of people were changed. Leeds and Jacobi. The police think they were murdered. Do you know what they call the being that visited these people? You can say.
The Tooth...
It's Dragon. Dragon... Red Dragon.
Francis did a thing for you today so I couldn't have you. And he was wrong. I AM THE DRAGON! Give me your hand.
...but if we find him, the print as evidence will get a conviction, Hold on. What?
He asked for Will. He said he might call back tonight. I tried to hold him... I'm sorry... He said 'tell Graham "broken mirrors."'
Will. Get right back here. He just called.
Where the hell's Graham!
He went to the men's room.
For Christ's sake get him!
Not yet.
Let's get to the physical.
...twentyeight minutes. Cryptography at Langley?
They got shot a Telex. They're on if now...
I should have caught you at the boat yard when you got off work. You don't want to talk about it here...
I don't want to talk about it anywhere. If you brought pictures, leave them in the briefcase. Molly and Kevin will be back soon.
How much do you know?
What was in the 'Miami Herald' and the 'Times.' Confessions?
Eightysix so far. All cranks. He smashes the mirrors and uses the pieces. None of them knew that;
What else did you keep out of the papers?
Blond, righthanded, really strong, wears a size eleven shoe. The prints are all smooth gloves. He's on a full moon cycle. Both times. His blood is AB Positive.
Somebody hurt him?
Typed him from semen. He's a secretor.
Will... you saw this in the papers. The second one was all over TV. Did you ever think about givin' me a call?
No.
Why not?
The Bureau already has the best lab. Plus you have Bloom at the University of Chicago...
And I got you down here fixing fuckin' boat motors.
You don't need me. I wouldn't be useful to you anymore, Jack.
Last two like this we had, you caught.
That was three years ago. And by doing the same things you and the rest of them at the lab are doing.
That's not entirely true, Will. It's the way you think.
I think there has been a lot of bullshit about the way I think. I came down here to get away from all that.
You look all right now.
I am all right.
If you can't look anymore, I understand...
As long as they're dead...
These are all dead, Will.
Let's talk after dinner. Stay and eat.
I'LL come back later. I got messages at the Holiday Inn to collect.
Jack, this is Graham. Is Price still in Latent Prints?
He's working on the single print index. What time is it?
Get him to Atlanta.
You said the guy down here is good.
He is good. Bur not as good as Price.
What do you want to do?
Mrs. Leeds' fingernails and toenails. I think he took off his gloves, Jack. And dust all the corneas of all their eyes.
A cat. We found a litter box downstairs but not the cat. Neighbors are watching for it.
Why don't you get Birmingham P.D. a methane probe out of D.C. and have them cover the backyard... maybe the cat's dead and the kids buried it.
...snuck in the hospital while I was sedated, flipped back the sheets and shot pictures. The only decent thing he did was run a black square over my balls...
I know...
Atlanta and Birmingham can run the thumb print against known sex offenders. Five will get you ten they don't come up with an identification. Jimmie may in the Finder program... if he's ever been printed and in his Index.
Say we've arrested a good suspect. You walk in and see him. What is there about him that doesn't surprise you?
I don't know, Jack. He's got no face for me.
You can tell something about him or we wouldn't have found the finger print...
Don't expect too much from me, Jack, all right? We'll get him one way or the other.
What's one way?
We find an event that connects both families. Same vacation hotel; same hospital, different times. Then we check employees and come up with a male nurse, hairdresser, whatever... If we find out how he found them, then we'll find him.
We're running it through the computers now. So far there's no event or service that doubles back into both families. Plus they were big consumers: snowmobiles, fishing trips, scuba, videogames, lots of routine medical and dental. It's a haystack. What's the other?
He makes noise going in and the husband gets to a gun in time.
No other possibilities?
You think I'm gonna spot him 'across a crowded room?' That's Ezio Pinza you're thinking about. The Tooth Fairy will go on until we get smart or get lucky. He won't stop.
Why?
Because he has a genuine taste for it, Jack.
See? You do know something about him.
...I'm going to see Lecktor.
For Christ's sake, why?
To recover the mind set.
Is it weird?
The mark? Yes.
If the Documents section can't do it... I'll send it up to Langley...
Did Price get anywhere with the single prints off the Leeds?
Who did he ask for?
You.
How'd you know 'broken mirrors?' Bribe a cop? Tell it to the U.S. Attorney, Lounds!
What is it?
Sarah, order a chopper. I want the next thing smoking and I don't care whose. Ours. DCPD. Or the Marines. Then call Documents. Tell them to scramble a team. I want everybody moving in five minutes. Dr. Chilton, please do not handle the note. I have a Documents team on the way to you by helicopter to pick it up.
After we've worked the note we want to replace it in Lecktor's cell. I don't want him to know we found it. Where's Lector now?
We know the Tooth Fairy reads the Tattler. The stuff about me and Lector? I don't know any other paper that carried it...
...there's three 't's' and an 'r' in Tattler.
Personal ads?
Twentyfive minutes. We won't make it in time.
We let Lecktor's message run as is and decode it after. Or we pull it, work our the code and put ours in next week.
Can we still get Lecktor's message out of the paper?
Yes. And I'm leery of running Lecktor's message without knowing what it says.
And if we pull it, we lose a week... We only have two to the next full moon.
It's your call, Will. What do we do?
Run it.
What if it encourages the Tooth Fairy to do something besides write?
We will feel sick for a very long time.
Who is it?
Will, Bowman just broke the code. It was a James Beard cook book. You need to know what it says right now.
What'd it say?
I'll tell you in a second. Now listen to me: everything is okay, I'm taking care of it, so stay on the phone when I tell you.
Tell me now.
It says: 'Graham home, 3860 DeSoto Highway, Marathon, Florida. Save yourself. Kill them all. It's your home address, Will. The bastard gave him your home address.
Get me a plane...
Wait, Will...
Get me a plane!
I'll pick you up in...
I won't be here.
Asian studies at Langley said the mark you found on the tree is a Chinese character considered a positive or a lucky sign in gambling. The character also appears on a mah jongg piece. It means Red Dragon. That mean anything to you?
No.
You got the message Lecktor called...
I arranged for him to have a phone. I have to call him in a few minutes.
From the lip wound, which happened seven hours before he got burned, we've narrowed it down to those cities within the sevenhour driving radius that also would've caught the 'Tattler' early Tuesday morning.
What's it narrow down to?
Milwaukee, Madison, Dubuque, Peoria, St. Louis, Indianapolis, Cincinnati, Toledo and Detroit.
That's narrow?
When are you coming back?
When I'm done.
He changes them into beings that accept him... And he needs to see the acceptance, In the mirrors. I didn't understand the mirrors before. It's very important.
'Changes?'
It's a word. Killing them... His delusion is: if he sees himself accepted enough times, he will become as one who has the power to be accepted all the time. And he would record it somehow. So he can see himself received over and over again...
VTR, film, Polaroid, stills, what?
How do I know?!
He's very careful, very... designed when he chooses. If we find out how he finds them, then we'll find him.
There's no connection between the families.
There has to be.
There is none! We've run it through the computer a dozen times.
He's a very shy boy...
What?
Something Lecktor said.
Let's admit we struck out this month. The Gulf Stream's standing by. The basic lab stuff is on it. You, Zeller, Jimmie Price, a photographer. Anywhere he hits, we can be there in an hour and fifteen minutes. We get the call, we roll. The scene'll be very fresh...
It's not over yet.
It's a foregone conclusion. For Christ's sake, it's eleven PM. The full moon is tonight.
Will?
You wanna watch this or what?!
That's why the boltcutter.
What's that?
He used a boltcutter to trim the branch out of his way. When he was watching from the woods. Why didn't he use it to go through the basement door?
Because a steel door and deadbolt were there when they were killed.
You mean Jacobi put it in between when this film was made and when he was murdered?
He had to.
It's getting late and...
Don't talk to me!!
It's the guard in the storeroom.
We want the cans the Jacobi home movies came in. They're in the far corner of the room under the windows.
There's some film cans in the far corner of the room underneath one of the windows.
What it's going to say on the Jacobi film can is the same as it says on the Leeds' film can: Gateway Lab, St. Louis, Missouri.
Is there a label on the Jacobi can that says what lab processed it?
No. It's Bob's Photo Store in...
Have him peel the top label back.
See if there's another label underneath.
It does, doesn't it?
I want a chopper on the roof in three minutes. To Meigs Field. At Meigs have them warn up and flight prep the Gulf Stream.
Parking permits...
Are your parking permits in the computer? He drives a van.
Fogel has four more names. He knows two: both dark hair. Third's a woman. Fourth's a handicapped parking permit...
This is our boy...!
Will...?
What?
You're not going to need that. Because we're going in careful and slow and secure a perimeter and a St. Louis PD Swat team is going to take him. Not us.
Get the roadblocks set on Route Three! There's an access road to the back of the house. That ought to be a second team's approach. Will Graham and I are in an orchard due west of the house.
How far away's the backup?
Three minutes.
I'll cover the back.
Stay in the trees.
There's somebody in the house, Jack...
Wait for the backup! Will?
It's happening again, Jack...
Whatever I say, you'll take him away, won't you?
I have to.
You're his friend, Jack. Why can't you leave him alone?
Because it's his bad luck to be special.
He thinks you want him to look at evidence.
Nobody's better with evidence. But he has the other thing, too. He doesn't like that part of it...
You wouldn't like it, either if you had it.
Talking about 'like,' you don't like me very much, do you?
No. I don't like people who park in the 'handicapped zone'...
I'll try to keep him as far away from it as I can...
Let's go to bed. I'll rub your back.
I need to talk to you about Will Graham.
This is Chester here. Who am I talking to?
Will Graham, Jack Crawford...
We got an ad order in tonight's "Tattler" with 'sixsixsix' in it. It's being Telexed to you right now.
Read it.
'Dear Pilgrim, you honor me.'
That's it. Lecktor called him a Pilgrim when he was talking to me...
'You're very beautiful.
How long do I have?
Twenty minutes max.
Aniline dyes in the inks in felttip pens  which is what Lecktor has  are transparent to infrared. The Tooth Fairy's ballpoint isn't...
That could be the tip of a 't. Here and here. And here.
At the end is the tail of what could be an 'r.
The Chicago office is running through all the personal ads in the Tattler right now.
When do they go to press?
If there's any doubt, we matched the indents of the bitemark on the note against the Smithsonian teeth. This is your boy... He folded the bottom part, including what Lecktor tore out. In this enlargement of the back side, oblique light revealed impressions. We can make out: 'sixsixsix'. I didn't spot it until I had this highcontrast print. I advised Chicago as soon as I saw it.
Issue the toilet paper tear as a...
No. The numbers aren't right for a jailhouse alphabet code. It's a book code. And your message has to go out in it, or he'll know it's not Lecktor talking to him.
Book code?
'One hundred prayers' could be the page number. The paired numbers and the scriptural references could be line and letter. But what book?
Not the Bible?
No. Galatians 15:2? Galatians has only six chapters. The same with Jonah 6:8  Jonah has four chapters. Lecktor wasn't using a Bible.
Willingham, when he tossed his cell, took Polaroids so they could get everything back in place...
Have him meet me with pictures of Lecktor's books...
Where?
Library of Congress.
The main thing is: how was Lecktor to reply.
That's probably in the part Lecktor tore out. At the top it says: 'I hope we can correspond.' And then the hole begins. It looks like Lecktor went over it with a felt tip pen and then folded it and pinched most of it away.
He doesn't have anything to cut with.
In thirtyfive minutes.
Christ!
Then the Tooth Fairy named the book in the part Lecktor tore out.
Right. What about sweating Lecktor?
They tried sodium amytal on him three years ago to find where he buried a Princeton student. He gave them a recipe for potato chip dip.
It has to be a book the Tooth Fairy would know Lecktor has in his cell.
He'd know it from articles he's read about Lecktor...
Crawford has a proposition. I don't think it's a good idea.
If the Tooth Fairy listens to Lecktor, he'll come for me. So we're going to set me up as bait to draw him out. Give him a clean shot. That's what you were thinking, isn't it?
What have we missed?
He may have an unconscious homosexual conflict. A fear of being gay. He objects to the word 'fairy.' Plus smeared bloodstains indicate that he put the shorts on Charles Leeds after he was dead. I believe he did this to emphasize his lack of interest in Mr. Leeds.
Sidney: I don't understand him. We know he rearranges the kids and husbands into a dead audience. To witness the act. We know he thinks the act is making him into something different. His 'becoming'... but I don't know what it is he thinks he's becoming. The answer is something to do with how he uses the mirrors. That's what's missing for me. Why the mirrors?
The usual motivation doesn't apply to him, nor the way he uses them. I don't have an answer for you. Listen to me, my friend: leave this.
And do what? Read about the next family in the morning paper? In my Monkey Ward safehouse 'cause I can't take my family home? This ends when I make it over.
How are Molly and the boy?
Kevin and Molly are on their way to Montana. Who the hell is he to do this to my family, Sidney? Answer me that...!
What about him?
I need to ask you questions of a psychological nature.
Remember when you asked for a study on him, I refused. Same goes for now.
That was Peterson upstairs.
It was you who did the asking.
He doesn't think you run mind games on him.
I wouldn't presume to try.
You're never alone in a room with Graham, are you? You're smooth about it, but you're never oneonone with him. Why's that? Do you think he's psychic?
He's an eideteker. He has almost total recall. But I don't think he's psychic. What he has it empathy and projection. He can assume your point of view and mine.., and some other points of view that scare and sicken him.
Why aren't you ever alone with him?
Because I'm professionally concerned about him. And he'd pick up on that. He's fast. He hates being prodded and poked. So do I. What do you want?
His nervous breakdown followed Hobbs. Could he kill again if he had to save his life? Or would he hesitate?
I'll tell you the events. The psychology's none of your business. Hobbs was trying to cut his eleven yearold daughter's throat. Graham shot him with his .38 six times. Hobbs still didn't go down. He had to wade in...
That's when it happened?
No. It happened when Graham went to see Hobbs' daughter four months later in the hospital. She saved her carotid artery.., but lost three fingers and her larynx. She was connected up to a voice box. When Graham went to see her, she asked him  through the speaker: 'Why did you have to kill my daddy?' That's when Graham had his nervous breakdown.
What's the bottom line?
If he pushes too deep into our boy's mindset, he may destroy himself. What are you planning, Jack?
Could he handle a direct contact?
I don't recommend it.
Don't you guys ever knock?
Where is he?
Long gone... MARVOSA Well you won't mind if I don't take your word for it, right?
Long gone, huh?
I asked him not to tell me where he was going. I told him I don't want any part of it.
Oh yeah? You're a smart man?...
Yeah, and that's all I'm going to say. If you want to arrest me, go ahead...
Nahhh...
No  that's not it! She said her boyfriend stranded her up there! I didn't ask her to come with me!
Did you have sex with her?
What?
Did you have sexual intercourse with the woman in question?
No. It wasn't like that!
Then what did you do, play canasta?
Where am I going?
County jail  get in.
Where are you going?
Well I've kind of had my fill of the place, you know what I mean?
You must be going somewhere.
I don't have any real destination. I'm just going South.
Mind if I come along for the ride?
I'm stranded out here.
Hop in.
Where did you learn to fight like that? JIM I read a book.
Well, you saved me from a bad situation. Thanks. I admit this is...unusual.
Are you a regular there?
Are you serious? My boyfriend ditched me...
Ditched you?
We were fighting  I told him to let me out. So where are you headed?
Bartender said there are motels south of here.
What would your  boyfriend  think?
Screw him!
You don't seem afraid of much.
Not with this...
What?
Jim Trudell! Bravo company!
Tubbs, it's me.
Well where are ya, what are ya, drunk?
No...I'm in some trouble...
Well...whatsamatter? Run in with the law?
Yeah...
You are drunk. You know, it's been a long time and I'd love to catch up, but I really got to 
Tubbs listen! I don't know anywhere else to go! I need your help!
Just what did you get yourself into, Jimmy?
It's...it's a long story. Can we meet somewhere?
Jesus, man...
Please...
Operator, I'd like to make a collect call  2134670972...
This is Tubbs. Sorry I can't answer the phone, I'm out square dancing. Leave a message
Holy shit 
Hello Tubbs. Can I come in?
Yeah, c'mon in...you scared the hell out of me!
No...
Look, Jimmy, you know, I haven't seen you in eight years, you show up to my door like you're on drugs  now the least you could do is tell me what the fuck is going on!
And?...
I killed them.
Oh, shit, shit, shit  I don't know about all this! You sure?!
Yeah I'm sure! I did it with my own hands!
Jimmy, do you realize what you did? Man that's like death penalty shit 
It was selfdefense, Tubbs! They're dirty! I walked in on something, I don't know what 
You gotta turn yourself in. Before it's too late 
They're inside the department, they're everywhere  it's not safe.
Shit, you know what happens to me if I'm harboring a fugitive? I already think they're on to me! I thought you were the phone police for Chrissake!
I have nowhere else to go, Tubbs, I need your help!
Oh man...what happened?
I don't know. But I'm in trouble. I'm all over the papers. I have to figure out what's going on.
Alright...alright...you've saved my ass enough times. What do you want to do?
I hope you haven't lost your touch with this stuff.
Shit, what I have now made our setup in Angola look like Tinker Toys. I've been skipping through Internal Revenue records all day. I even have video strip poker. You want to check it out?
I've got a better idea...
OK...where do you want to start?
OK, I'm logged on to the municipal network. I'm showing sixteen people with the name Sarah Williams in L.A. county. None of them live in Hollywood. Do you remember the address?
1490...Breckinridge...
Let's see what we got...
Donut?
No thanks. How do you know they can't catch you on this thing?
I don't, but I'm pretty sure. It's a long story but I cloned a cellular linkup with a binary code scrambler and sent it through the phone network mainframe. If they start a trace it will be to a Pic'n'Save on Pico.
I knew I could count on you.
I got a lot of free time, you know what I mean?
OK...county tax records...they're saying 1490 Breckinridge is owned by... an Atlantic Trust Corporation...they have a P.O. box in D.C.
How about Marvosa and the others?
I'll access the LAPD mainframe, but we gotta be careful  that one's kind of tricky 
So...what happened to you, Jimmy? I figure you'd be in some far off place somewhere, living on the edge like the good old days.
I gave all that up. I got tired of the lies. They wanted to stuff me in Levenworth to cover their asses on a botched assignment. It got so I didn't know who to trust anymore... ...some things never change, I guess.
You know this time, there's nobody that's gonna cover your ass. You're over your head this time.
What else is new?
OK...Marvosa makes calls to this fax number overseas. And that's Switzerland's country code.
A bank?
Who knows? Maybe he's ordering army knives. I can't access that, but look what we have here...these are the account records for Fleming and Marvosa.
Both at the same bank...
And look at the balances...these aren't police salaries...
Ahh, shit. We're pretty much tapped out. I'm getting denied access all over the place...
It's not very much to go on...is there anything else we can check?
Shit, we just started. But I better log out of this.
That was her  the girl... We have to go.
I'm not going anywhere!
Tubbs, these people mean business.
I told you I'm not going anywhere! I got my whole life in this place! I'll just destroy the evidence and play dumb.
I can't help you anymore, Jimmy. I'm sorry.
I'm going to need a way to get there.
Are you going to be alright?
Don't worry about me... ...and don't forget your helmet. You don't want to get a ticket.
So where are you from?
Up north.
Where up north?
Seattle.
You got any family?
No...
You're the mysterious type, right?
Mind if I turn out the light?
No...
You know, you don't seem afraid of much either. How do you know I'm not going to try to rape you?
Figure you would have tried it already.
You always carry a gun with you?
No.
Only on dates?
What's going on here?
You'll find out  soon enough.
Why did you set me up?
I didn't. I figured you leave it well enough alone.
Well you figured wrong! And now I'm public enemy number one. You have an answer for that?
I had to get away! My life was in danger!
Look what are you anyway? Some kind of spy?
No. A witness.
What exactly did you see?
Six months ago, a police lieutenant named Charles Fletcher was found dead in a hotel room  he blew his brains out  left no note, you may have heard of it...
No, but I'm listening.
I was there, and it was no suicide. He was killed by professionals. I was in the bathroom when it happened.
Didn't these  professionals  figure he had a girl in the room?
Yeah...they did. One girl...
And what did you do?
I got out of there. I just grabbed up my stuff, and then I found it.
Found what?
I had it all on tape...
What did you do then?
I didn't know what to do  but I knew I had something somebody would want. That's where I met him  told him what I had. The FBI set me up with a new place...but the cops found me somehow. So I ran...and met you.
What happened with the tape?
I took it with me. It's in a safe place.
So you know about Marvosa, and Stanton, and all of them.
There's something I've been meaning to ask you, Stephanie.
Yeah.
Where the hell is my car?
Have you ever heard of the Live Oak River?
No 
Neither did I. I'll make it up to you, I promise...
Captain there's someone here to see you  he's waiting in your office.
Who is it?
I don't know  but he's from the FBI.
Where is he?!!
I lost him  I heard shots  that way!!
Speak of the devil.
They found the getaway Mercedes a parking garage north of Venice. It checks out.
Good! We'll get it to the nearest outlying station and hold it for prints  we're on our way  You coming?
Captain?
Yeah?
LAPD data center reports a breach on the system. An outside hacker has accessed files on Detectives Fleming and Stanton...and yours too, Marvosa.
Zydowski. It's about time.
You won't like this. I ran the prints from the house. No police record on your suspectat least not in our files. But there is a match on the girl.
Yeah?
Her prints belong to Stephanie Field, convicted for soliciting two years ago.
What? Wait a minute 
That's not all. According to the computer  she died of a drug overdose last year.
That's great Zydowski, you tech guys are really on the ball. Harding  call the print lab at the FBI, run the prints through their library, see if it's less screwedup than ours...
Did you read today's paper?
No Zydowski I didn't read today's paper  it's just going to irritate the hell out of me.
Well read this 
Something I don't already know?
Well it's just kind of a coincidence, isn't it? Stanton and Fleming, both started in '83, both in area six...both in Vice?
Vice...you think they had something to do with this dead hooker?
Could explain why Fleming was there.
And where the hell is Marvosa?
He said he was following up some lead.
Well let's get his ass to the garage! Some lead...
The guy was looking for trouble, shoving people around, being an asshole...
And he took a swing at you?
Yeah...the guy was psycho  I was just tying to protect the girl...
Did he harm the girl?
Hell, he probably raped her in the lot, dumped the body somewhere. That's what he was like  a real wacko.
Mmhmm...that's not what the bartender told us.
Now you listen to me hayseed! If you don't want to spend a year in jail for making a false report you'll start giving me straight answers, you got that!!
Alright, alright! We were just fucking with him..you know?
I was just having a little fun 
And what did he do to the girl?
Nothing! He didn't do nothing!
Alright, where is she?
And who are you?
Who am I? I'm gonna be your worst fucking nightmare until you start breaking it down for me. You understand? Where did you get the car!
I'm done talking until I get a lawyer.
Anyhow... you wake up and she's gone. But this is my favorite part she leaves you the keys to a brand new Beemer.
She stole my car!!
So... to get the car back, you break into her house.
I didn't break in  the back door was open!
Yeah, it was opened  with a goddamn screwdriver!!!
Are you alright?
I'll live...
I tell you one thing Trudell  you'd make a hell of a cop...
It wasn't in the cards.
Bullshit...
Did you report it stolen?
You can cut the shit, asshole
we've got kidnapping, grand theft auto, burglary, and two counts of murder on you, and I'm gonna see to it personally that it sticks!
What the hell happened?
He busted the back window with his feet, and fled on foot. We pursued him into this warehouse  but he's  gone, south  maybe a couple of miles if he's fast 
Why didn't you call for backup! What were you thinking, Jesus!!!
It happened too fast. He was in the back, quiet and calm and boom! He was out  and gone. We...we fanned out...Stanton must have let his guard down!
I don't know how you're used to doing things, Marvosa, but it sounds like some damn sloppy work to me!
Oh for Chrissakes it could have happened to anyone of
What the hell is this Marvosa!!
He must have got the keys... off Stanton.
Great. Well that changes a lot...
I'm going to look for him on my own. Fuck this.
We're all gonna fan out! C'mon, let's do a sweep of the alleys 
Don't take any chances. Call for backup this time!
Don't worry 
Did you hit him?
I didn't hit shit!
What did the sixtoes have to say?
Sarah Williams left the bar with Trudell on her own.
So? Girls left bars with Ted Bundy too. It doesn't rule out foul play.
But what was a hair dresser from Malibu doing 60 miles away in some dive bar?
I don't know, shit. Maybe she was looking for love...
Find out for me.
Fine...
Let's roll 
Right behind you.
If you can trail him to a remote area do it. We all want a piece of him but let's keep our heads and stay within the law  we got people everywhere out here.
These crowds are going to make it a bitch!
I'm sure you can handle it. Now I want to do an alleyto alley sweep beginning at the north and south ends from Marine to 30th. Foot beat units continue on the boardwalk.
I'll take the south end 
Fine 
What's this?
Our getaway car. You said a cell phone?
What?
When did you join the force? You know, the police force, the place you work...
Nineteen eighty four. What fucking difference does it make?
Did you start out area six?
Yeah...
So you must have known Fleming... and Stanton 
Yeah I saw 'em around. They worked vice.
Well don't you think that's odd?
What?
It's kind of a funny coincidence, isn't it?
Gotta come from somewhere...
Where do you come from, Marvosa?
Just wondering if maybe they had a thing going with this hooker, you know, some connection.
Hey what they did on their time was their business, you know? I just want to catch this scumbag, wherever he is.
Outside hacker? What the fuck are you talking about?
That's got to our secret agent man! Do we have an address?
Something wrong with you Marvosa?
It's just...catching up with me, you know?
Well why don't you sit this one and get some rest...you look like shit. CUT TO INT TUBBS' APARTMENT  NIGHT
It's Marvosa 
What do you need?
The shit just hit the fan, brother. That bitch has a partner and he got away from me.
He walked in on Fleming and took him out.
So what?
So what is they have enough to shut us down!
You mean shut your ass down!
No I mean ours, motherfucker! If I go down everyone's going with me  you and your crew especially! You won't get protection, you won't get the trucks  nothing!
Yeah?
Where are you?
We're by Ozone...
You set to go 
What do you think?
Alright, stay on the phone.
Captain Doyle?
Yeah?
What can I do for you?
Your department contacted our agency regarding information on Sarah Williams.
Yeah  I heard  nothing came up.
We did a little digging on Jim Trudell at Sergeant Zydowski's request. He's 31, no priors, and he's been working for the military for ten years.
We ran the i.d. I could have told you that.
I don't think you understand. I don't mean shuffling papers in an office, I mean Jim Trudell worked classified assignments, special forces...sabotage...until last year. He was brought up on charges of espionage, but the charges were later dropped, and he sprang the service.
Yeah?..well what are you getting at? You saying he has an agenda down here?
Our agency monitors all threats very carefully, and there's good reason to believe Jim Trudell has the training, the connections, and the experience to present a clear threat to the public if he remains at large.
If what you're saying is true, then why would he have killed two police officers? A man like that would want to lay low, if he was planning some kind of damn sabotage mission!
That's the point. He slipped up, and he's desperate now. And that means he's all the more dangerous.
I'm sure if our departments cooperate we can find out the truth.
Cooperate?
Every step of the way.
If you guys want in, fine. Just remember this is our jurisdiction.
Alright, we know who we're looking for. Play it cool until the time is right to make a move. Let's not pull any gangbusters shit or we'll lose him again.
Or worse, we'll have a hostage situation on our hands.
You mind if I ride with you?
Yeah, stick around, you might learn something.
I would have said it was impossible, but I believe the excitement of the chase has made you even more beautiful.
Sire, I 
You blush! You do not wish to be beautiful to your King?
Sire! I  How did you 
How did I get in? You're new here, and will soon learn many secrets. What is that?
... Nothing.
A letter. May I see?
From Raoul. He urges you to guard your honor  as if it could be in any danger... from your king.
Raoul... is in love...
Enough of this, our dinner waits.
The food doesn't please you?
It's lovely. It's just...
This is more than you are used to. Your mother is a seamstress, your father is dead. You have three younger sisters, two of whom suffer from consumption. Don't look so surprised, Kings know such things.
I... we are humble people...
Wait, no! Do not be ashamed. The straits of your family need not be permanent. It is a simple matter to have them brought to one of my country estates, where they may have fine meals, and physicians to look after them.
You would do that, your Majesty?
My dear, I've already done it.
You are beautiful. You know you are.
Sire, I 
If you don't want to be so appealing, why did you touch the rose to your skin? Where was it? Here?
Shall I leave?
No, you may wait behind the screen.
Did you know... about Raoul?
I did not want to upset you. It was tragic. I did everything I could for him. I ordered him positioned in a spot of complete safety, far from the fighting. But he disregarded my wishes and charged into danger.
I will order a Mass for his soul. It will guarantee his place in Heaven.
Oh Louis, Louis...
Raoul... Oh, Raoul...
Listen, my darling... Raoul was a... a good friend. And now he is dead and that is very sad but 
We'll burn in hell. Both of us.
Riots? My people live in the world's most beautiful city, their king has the grandest palaces on earth. Why should they feel anything but pride and contentment?
Well yes, of course, Majesty, and I'm sure they are content... except that... well, they are starving.
Sometimes the poor do grow hungry. But why would they riot about it?
Majesty... We have more than enough food set aside for your birthday celebration next week. If we distributed some of that, we would have time to gather more before 
Aramis! I have been expecting you! We are satisfied, that will do.
Ah yes, the riots. We have food stocks on the wharves right now, no?
That food has spoiled. That is why it was not shipped to the army.
Exactly why it should be given away.
What... an excellent idea, your Majesty!
I would not have disturbed you, Majesty, but you ordered me to keep you informed 
Yes, yes, go on.
Athos, the former Musketeer, has just fought with several of your guard, at the Musketeers' Gate.
Did they kill him?
No. He cut an ear from one of the men, no one else was hurt. Captain d'Artagnan allowed him to leave. Athos was upset about the death of his son, at the front.
Who was Athos seeking? Tell me! Did he try to enter the palace?
... He did  but Captain d'Artagnan blocked his way.
You may go, Lieutenant.
Do you want Athos arrested, your Majesty?
Not by you. I will order d'Artagnan to do it.
Now. Where is d'Artagnan?
Out directing the search for the traitors.
When he returns, watch him. When he leaves again, you tell me.
Cowards! Twenty run from four?!
The corridor nullifies our number... And no one has stomach to fight the Captain.
Magnificent valor...
Shoot them! Shoot them!
You dead yet?
No, Keeper.
Food, moron.
Thank you, Keeper.
What number did you tear out?
Eh?
What number, on the first page?
... Twothirtyseven.
Twothirtyseven: "... And the descendants of Japeth are these: Obediah, Zebulon, Hezekiah..."
You've... memorized...?
What was the end page?
Continue.
Sire, we have an emergency  of security. I must ask you to accompany me.
... The ball... Continue.
I must insist, Sire.
Wait. Bargain me to Louis, for all your lives. You have done your best. Let me go, and let all of you find peace.
No. Even if I could give up my friends, I could never give up my son.
Phillippe!
I am unhurt 
Your Majesty...
What is it, d'Artagnan? Assassins falling from the sky now?
The plans for use of the maze were not disclosed to me.
I decided it this morning.
Then you must allow me to stay close to you so that 
I am King, d'Artagnan. I will change my mind as I wish, and I will enjoy my banquet as I wish!
But I deployed the Royal Guards according to your previous 
Let us play a game, d'Artagnan, let us pretend I am King and you are Captain of my Musketeers. Let us behave as if my wish is law. And my wish is to enjoy this party!
Aaa! D'Artagnan! These passages were constructed for the King's security, not so you could step from my father's portrait and startle me to death!
It is for your security that I have come, your Majesty  for the security of your honor.
I already know about the riots, d'Artagnan, I heard them out there whispering. Some fool gave the order to distribute rotten food. I will deal with it tomorrow.
Then there is one more thing, of an even more personal nature.
A personal nature?
Mademoiselle Michelle Beaufort. She is betrothed to Raoul, the son of Athos the Musketeer, who has served France through many tribulations.
Betrothed? I think not.
In his mind, anyway, and soon enough in hers. She had written him many letters of love.
Miss Beaufort has accepted our invitation. By this we can only suppose that she wishes to come  as we wish her to be here.
Your Majesty has had many women 
That is my desire, and my desire is what should concern you, not the sentiments of some commoner!
It is not Raoul's heart alone that concerns me. It is yours. I know you find women compliant  especially the poorer ones like Michelle. But do they love you? Do you love them? What about a queen to love? A son of your own?
What quaint notions, d'Artagnan! But they contradict my father, who picked his queen when he was old, and only then to bear me.
There is more to love than he knew, or that you know.
You dare criticize my father?! Or lecture me?!
Not criticize  plead. Love. Love your people, and you will not bear to see them hungry. Love women, and they will love you. Love yourself, and 
That is enough! You are a good servant, d'Artagnan, but you forget your place!
At least help Raoul.
Silence! I order you!
Order Fromberge to keep him in safety! It is the least you can do, to protect your own honor!
I will consider it. Now leave me.
Thank you, your Majesty.
I just left the garden, it was empty. What did you see?
It... was nothing. A nightmare, nothing more. Go away, I 
Your Majesty. This ball, with an open invitation to the nobility of Paris  we have no way of checking 
You will protect me as you always have, d'Artagnan.
Your Majesty...?
... tired. Must... lie down.
I want all these passages sealed! Another stupid idea of my father's! Seal them all, every one!
It shall be done, your Majesty.
Even the bedchamber passages! Let none remain!
Yes, your Majesty.
I was told this impostor was dead!
... You knew you had a double?
He is my brother.
I  I thought he was but... an impostor who resembled 
My twin. Which has kept him alive. Until now.
Your Majesty... This man before you... He is royal blood, the same as you. To spill it is the one thing even you cannot do. It is against the laws of God, and of France.
Get out of my way.
Not once have I ever asked anything for myself. I ask now. Forgive this man, this prisoner... your brother.
Forgive?!
Aramis, Porthos and Athos too. I know what they have done was a threat against you  and yet that threat has been removed, with no harm coming to your Majesty. If their passions were in error, their spirits have ever been noble. Forgive them.
They have plotted against me! Me! The embodiment of God's will!
Where is Michelle?
There.
Are you hungry?
Just... water.
This place... I once lived in a country house. I had guardians  an old man and woman. And tutors. But no friends. Then when I was twelve, they came and took me to the prison.
Who came?
A man in black. I never saw his face. He took me to the cell. A blacksmith came and they put me into the mask. For days I shouted, "What have I done? Why do you do this to me?" But no one heard, so I just stopped shouting.
And you never knew why?
The old man and woman called me... Phillippe.
Phillippe. Rest now.
Recent hours have been a shock.
Perhaps not as much as you might imagine. When tutors answered every question except those about who I was. When I was imprisoned in a way no other man had ever been, I knew there was something different about me. But a king...
Phillippe... there is something I hope you understand. Terrible cruelty has been used against you. And... you must understand that you did nothing to deserve it.
There is... wrath... in me. I have learned to hide it. Those years in the cell, I dreamed that freedom would someday just happen, the way the mask happened. Now I am free. And with each free breath I feel the growing desire to make someone suffer for all I lost. Look at this, all this that for ten years I could not see! What if I become a king  a king no different from my brother?
The desire for vengeance... can be a poison.
What is its antidote?
I suppose... it is to remember there are many people who have never been in a prison, who pass such beauty every day, and never see it.
You look so sad. Is it something I have done?
It is something I have done  or did not do.
What is that?
I did not share beauty with someone... who is no longer here for me to share beauty with.
I've worn this mask so long, I couldn't sleep without it.
I will sit with you. I can't sleep either.
I am so sorry! Forgive me, I 
No! Do not be sorry! Never be sorry! The King cares for nothing and for no one! There are no mistakes when you are King! What you do is right for every person! A King has contempt for everyone!
Is that the king of king you wish me to be? Or do you say this because of your son?
How did you know  ?
Porthos told me.
These rooms are yours. Up these stairs  or through this hidden passage  is the room of your mistress... Michelle.
Whose rooms are those?
Your mother's.
The room of the King's favorite mistress?
She will be at the ball.
Phillippe...?
How did you 
One for all. All for one.
If I could have a blade, then I would be please to run with you.
All this time... I was a lost secret. But you were hiding all your loyalty, all your love. You were the Man in the Iron Mask.
D'Artagnan...
D'Artagnan!
Athos, my friend!
It's been too long.
Life is too long. Except when we have our friends. Look at you! You're still a boy! Sit, sit! I'll open a bottle of wine.
Thanks, but not for me.
You can't drink with a friend you haven't seen in months?
I have ordered a drill of the Royal Guard for midnight, and must be clearheaded for it.
Midnight! Mon dieu! Driving the youngsters hard, eh?
They must stay sharp. There was an attempt on the King's life today.
Another? How many times have you saved his life in this year alone? Three? Four?
I heard your playing.
I was feeling sorry for myself. Raoul is getting married, he proposed today! I love that boy beyond all measure, I've spent everything I own to give him education and opportunity. Now he has complete happiness, and I mope.
This cannot be. Everyone knows the Queen Mother is a recluse, and the ladiesinwaiting are but mistresses for the king!
If the young woman truly loves Raoul 
She's a woman, d'Artagnan! From a poor family. You may still be young enough to believe love conquers everything, but I am old and hard and I've seen too much. Even when kings are hunchbacks they have any woman they desire, because power seduces even more than love!
You knew this was happening. You knew and that's why you came.
I fear I know our King. I came to try to bring you hope.
What hope is there? A wartime commission cannot be vacated except by the king, and what chance is there of that? Fromberge is on the battle line, and Raoul 
I have dispatches a message to Fromberge requesting that Raoul be kept far from the fighting.
Raoul is everything to me.
I know.
Oh my friend.
I will also speak with the King, for he is surely unaware of the problems his invitation to Mademoiselle Beaufort has caused.
You trust his character more than anyone else does.
Raoul is hurrying to the front, so I must hurry too.
Save my son, d'Artagnan.
Athos, please...!
Get out of my way.
Athos, I beg you 
Where are you going?
To kill the king.
Athos! I know life means nothing to you at this moment, but I will not let you kill yourself.
The King killed my son!
The cannons killed Raoul! The cannons, and love. But not the King.
It is honor you serve, and when the king is dishonorable you are removed from your oath of honor!
An oath is an oath precisely because it cannot be removed!
Why do you follow him, d'Artagnan?! I know you have put service above your own life, but why does this King deserve such loyalty? He is a monster! He executes ministers for his own blunders, with their families hostage so they take the blame! He has no honor!
No man is all bad... or all good. I believe  I must believe  that Louis can learn. And perhaps I can help him.
If you ever loved me  if you ever loved honor, or anything else  then stand now, and let it happen.
I cannot, Athos. Dearly as I love you, I cannot.
He lies. He is here to trap us.
I came to see you safely out. Check for yourself.
Do I look all right?
None of the ladies will be able to take their eyes off you.
I care only about Michelle. Should I ask her when we first arrive? Or... or when we're leaving? I could ask her in the carriage  but it is more romantic at the palace. I get so confused...
Perhaps this will help.
Mother's ring. I can't take this.
She died giving you to me. And I want to die knowing it is one the finger of the women my son loves.
That must be Raoul! Raoul! Look, d'Artagnan's come to visit...! What's wrong? You look awful!
Michelle, she  The king has invited her to come live in the palace.
But  are you sure?
We were at her door. I was just taking the ring from my pocket, for the third time today, when a young Musketeer brought the invitation for her to become a ladyinwaiting for the Queen Mother.
Michelle cannot possibly accept!
She cannot possibly refuse. Her family is poor, they have even less money than we do. And along with the invitation, the King sent the diamond pendant, from the piglet.
Piglet  ? What are you  ?
Never mind, Papa, it doesn't matter now. She loved me once. I want to die remembering that.
Die? What...?
I have rejoined the army, and asked to resume my commission at the head of the troops of General Fromberge.
Fromberge...?! At the front?! No.
It is already done. I have just stopped at Mother's grave, to say goodbye, before coming to tell you.
Raoul, no... You cannot do this. No matter how your heart is broken 
Goodbye, father. I am sorry.
Raoul 
He gets one day of confession each year. Today is the day.
Who does?
Best not to ask. Shouldn't even talk about it.
What do we do now?
I don't know about you, but I plan to wait here.
D'Artagnan, unready?
At a ball, everyone watches the King!
"Phillippe has been removed to the Bastille, to the lower dungeon. At midnight tonight I will order the guard changed, and will delay the replacements for ten minutes. That should give you ample time. Never have I needed more to say: One for all, and all for one. D'Artagnan."
He lures us to capture.
What choice is there? If Phillippe is in the Bastille, then to the Bastille we will go.
You are right. But it is a trap.
So what? I'd rather die covered in blood, than an old man, lying in my own piss.
It worked!
It's a prison, you idiot! They don't expect anyone to try getting in! The problem will come when we want out!
Please revel with me, Aramis, I need my spirits lifted. I'm old, I'm weak, my strength is gone 
Be quiet, you fat fool. Can't you see I'm praying?
I just said you're praying! Are you deaf too? I know you're blind, because if you had seen the tits that just walked out of here, you'd have tears in your eyes.
There are more important things than tits.
Really? If you can name me one thing, one single thing, that is more sublime than the feel of a plump pink nipple between my lips, I will buy you a new cathedral.
Forgiveness.
Forgiveness?
I observe your forgiveness isn't sweeter than a plump nipple.
Can't you see I'm praying, goddammit?!
Aramis... is this the way to hell?
Hell may be our destination, dear Porthos, but not this trip.
Where are we?
Jesus of Nazareth found the holy among the profane. If we are to have a place of private prayer, where better than here, beside the channels where the shit and the garbage run to the river?
Mother of God!
It is also a place of burial.
A tomb? We're in a tomb?
Catacombs. Very holy.
But  doesn't God ordain both Pope and King?
So they tell us. But what are we to believe when the king is a tyrant, and the Church, meant to stand for all those oppressed, has become the tool of oppression? When no conscience is tolerated? No dissent, no objection?
It is a weighty problem, Aramis  but perhaps you should leave it to this secret General of the Jesuits, whoever he might be.
Easy to say, but hard to do. For what I am trying to tell you is that I am the Governor General of Jesuits in France.
And why are you so glum?
I expected action. There was no killing, no fighting, I was useless.
Aramis! Athos! He looks exactly like... exactly like...
I will answer all your questions. But first soap, water, and a razor.
The greatest secret of life is who we truly are. Now I must give you that secret, which has been kept from you your whole life. It began on the night when Louis was born.
I remember that night. D'Artagnan was drunk, the only time I've seen him that way. The three of us were reveling, remember, Athos?
But I was on duty...
I don't understand. What does this have to do with...? You carried a baby somewhere, it's unusual, but 
Not just a baby, Porthos. I carried the child of the king.
The child of the king is... the king. Louis!
No, not Louis!
Athos, do you understand this? He confuses me 
I carried the king's child! The queen had twins that night, and one of them was sent away, in secret!
But why?
Because the old king had a twin as well, and through his whole reign his brother fought him for the throne. Then he had two heirs, not just sons but twins. So he decided that one be put away, as if he never existed. You, Phillippe.
You've been moping for months. Now that you've gotten the idea of killing yourself out of the way, you can stop boring me and start being useful to me. Now get some rest.
Well... Well... Okay.
Coming?
What use am I?
We go someplace dangerous.
Why didn't you say so?
Let's see you rob somebody with your pistol there!
Come on...
Aramis... These are... these are whores!
So was Mary Magdalene, and our Lord loved her.
Did she have tits like that?
He's going to kill you, Aramis.
Then let him kill me, if all my faith is wrong.
But what if something extraordinary happened? Something so unusual that all the attention went to someone else? Someone whose confirmation of Phillippe the King would never be questioned.
Who?
The Queen Mother. Anne.
D'Artagnan watches everything. We have to be lucky.
We will make our own luck tonight... if Phillippe holds up.
Can we eat... before we go? This excitement's given me an appetite.
Bread and wine... in that cupboard.
D'Artagnan. Perhaps you should accept his offer, for we are dead anyway.
He is right, d'Artagnan.
A simple theological discussion.
Aramis  the King wishes to see you.
Still you serve him loyally  though people hurl rotten eggs at his royal emblem.
Look at us. We are old men now. But once we were young. And when we saw injustice, we fought it.
We have grown wiser with age. Now we know that some problems cannot be settled with a sword.
No! Stop 
I will need you all. All for one. One for all.
You  You cannot ask me to betray my king! I have sworn to him!
I have heard many confessions, d'Artagnan. But even if I were not a priest, I could tell your heart has a secret weight, and it is hurting you to carry it alone.
The secret I carry I cannot share. Not even with God.
I cannot betray Louis. I will defend him with my life.
I know. God go with you.
Pull them back, d'Artagnan.
You can't do it.
Pull them back!
Everyone back.
Phillippe, get into the boat. Into the boat! Now!
Once you are through, don't stop until you reach the river.
They will know you helped us, if we go this way.
That doesn't matter now.
D'Artagnan... Those are young Musketeers down there. They have been weaned on our legends. They revere us  it is an advantage. Why don't we charge them?
I trained those men myself. They will stand and fight. But if we are to die, let it be this way.
And some problems cannot be settled without one.
Well here is the problem at hand: the King has ordered me to discover the identity of the Governor General of Jesuits, and kill him. As our English rivals have left the Catholic Church, Louis has struck on a plan to dominate the whole of Europe by uniting Church and State and making himself head of both. He has already picked the Pope. Only the Jesuits, who put God above throne or papacy, stand in his way.
What do you propose to do?
Replace the king.
It can. I know the way.
I am with you!
What are they doing?
Making the key to the throne.
Porthos sleeps, and you plot. Don't you think it's time you told me what it is you are plotting?
Soon enough. Here we are.
The Prison of Belle Sur.
Come, we have a boat waiting.
What is that?
A body.
I see that is a body! But where did you get it?
Prison was horrible but it was his home. He's been torn from it by strangers. He's frightened, exhausted  and the mask is familiar. Let him rest in it tonight, and remove it tomorrow.
Excellent, Athos. You have a keen sense of this man.
His plight is obvious, isn't it?
Who is he, Aramis?
Tomorrow.
Tonight! Right now! We steal a man from a royal prison, we hide in a country chateau among an assortment of saints and sluts such as only you could provide, and still you wish to tell me nothing?!
You seek facts, when it would be better to seek truth.
You are not my priest, Aramis! You would not be, even if I had one.
You are bitter, Athos. You are torn by grief, not only for Raoul, but for d'Artagnan, whom you love, and now treat as an enemy.
He who is not with us is against us.
Those are the words of a broken spirit. My spirit is whole. I have trusted d'Artagnan with my deepest secrets, and I will never believe he is my enemy.
Then you are a fool  a fool who has never lost a son. What gives you the right to judge me, to play God with the lives of others? Is it because you are so much holier than everyone else?!
There is that, of course  but mainly it is because I am so much smarter than everyone else.
Switch?! That is your plan? It is ludicrous!
I have it all worked out.
Physical resemblance is but one small thing! Louis has an arrogance, a manner 
Those can be adopted 
And people close to him, who 
Do you think I have not considered that? I have a plan  and you may rest assured that it is brilliant!
It is not just our lives you risk with this conceit of yours! It is Phillippe's as well!
Yes, and he has a choice!
How is he?
Resting, he's had a long day. Aramis 
More wine!!
You must reconsider this plan. Phillippe is like a child, he 
You can do it.
In a year, maybe two, I could teach him enough to 
Three days.
Three days??!!
The King is having a ball, a masquerade ball. It is the perfect opportunity and perhaps our only one. At any time Phillippe could be discovered, and what then? Remember France. Remember the poor. Remember Raoul. More wine!! Where are those serving girls...?
Phillippe  he's very bright, he's perceptive, but he is in such turmoil 
You grow fond of him. That's good.
Don't play God with me, Aramis I 
Go on.
But  what is Porthos doing?
Going into the barn naked  or so it appears.
Now. You were saying?
But  what is he doing?
About to hang himself, I should think.
Hang himself?!
He's threatened to do it, it's been building up in him for months.
We must stop him!
Come now, Athos, if Porthos is determined to end his life, then he will certainly manage to find the opportunity.
But  but 
Poor Phillippe!
The mask is terrifying... especially when unexpected. Do you notice?
All I noticed was that Phillippe feels even more like an animal.
Where are you going?!
Paris. There is still much to do. We'll be back soon. Be ready.
But Aramis  ! Phillippe can learn in time, but 
He can learn to be Phillippe in time. But first he must learn to be Louis, and for that he has two more days.
What you're asking is impossible!
I offer you the perfect revolution. A revolution without bloodshed, without any loss of life, even without treason, for he too is the son of the King.
But 
You said you'd do anything, Athos, anything to replace this King. So do it.
Aramis, this will never 
Louis is planning a visit to the Vatican, then who knows where after that. If we miss him now we may not get another chance.
But 
It presses us but it is good for us too! Louis' whims make him more vulnerable. We are less ready, but so are his guards!
Remember, Phillippe... nobility is born in the heart.
Hold your goblet with two fingers.
Bloody hell...
We can't... stay here. That traitor d'Artagnan... knows about this place.
He seeks redemption.
You're a fool!
Perhaps. But of d'Artagnan I am certain. What he did tonight was what he told us all along he would do  be faithful to his King.
So what has changed?
Perhaps he serves a different king.
Then to the Bastille.
To the Bastille. And death.
Your birthday celebration, your Majesty?
Next week. This is a mere garden party  and I wish to join it, so I will be brief. I am experiencing resistance from the Jesuits.
Well... perhaps you should speak with them, your Majesty.
I have demanded it  and common priests present themselves! Can you imagine the arrogance? Common Jesuit priests try to act as my equals, and they refuse to reveal the names of anyone else in their order! No one can keep secrets like the Jesuits can, and the identity of their leader is the darkest secret they hold. Even the Pope himself does not know who leads the Jesuit Order in France! He suspects the Governor General of Jesuits, whoever he is, is angling to become Pope himself.
How can I serve you in this?
Perhaps you can find out who this secret leader of the Jesuits is. You are now a priest, but you were once a Musketeer, serving the throne of France, a throne ordained of God. Can you accept this mission, and keep it private?
If I find out the identity of this Jesuit rebel. I will kill both him and the man who told me.
Once a Musketeer, always a Musketeer, eh?
Your Majesty...
How goes that favor I asked of you?
I grow closer to my target, your Majesty.
You bring me the heart of the Jesuit General, and you will have a palace of your own.
Wh Wha
Don't look so shocked, Phillippe. Come, you're going back to prison.
Phillippe?! Why do you call me 
D'Artagnan, arrest them all!
Shut up, knave!
Mother  ?
May I speak with you? Alone?
I am preparing for a ball!
We haven't visited in three years. And we should have privacy.
What is it, mother?
I wish to discuss your brother.
He is dead! By God's choice! There is nothing to discuss.
First they told me he had died at birth. Then your father admitted he was alive, but well cared for, in secret. But the message that told of his death said he had been a prisoner.
I am King, Mother! And I do not wish to discuss this with you.
He was my blood  and I demand to know what happened to him.
Why would you ask now? You never asked before!
Because I have dreamed of him. Not as the baby they took away, but as a man.
You have prayed too much. Your mind is weak.
It  it doesn't matter, Mother! He is dead now! Dead!
Yes. Dead. Two nights ago. The night of my dream.
Louis, please  !
My guards are useless! Take her from me!
What had you to do with this, Mother?
He is your brother!
He is nothing now.
D'Artagnan, you will hunt down Aramis, Porthos and Athos, and bring me their heads, or I will have yours. And as for you, Phillippe... Back to the prison you shall go, and into the mask you hate.
No, Louis! No!
Wear it until you love it. And die in it!!
M'lady...?
I understand you saved my son's life today.
God smiled upon us.
And you were not hurt?
No, M'lady.
That is good.
Oh God I  Forgive me...
M'lady...?
What  ?
No, stay back! Stay back!
M'lady... if anyone sees, it is death...
If I don't kiss you, I die anyway.
I can't bear to see you cry. What is wrong?
Nothing... Nothing.
Anne...! I know... I know that to love you is treason against France. But not to love you... is treason against my heart.
Then we will both die traitors, d'Artagnan.
My Queen...
D'Artagnan.
I have never seen a sight more beautiful than you, tonight.
We have much to discuss. Tomorrow.
There were two. Not one. But two.
I couldn't tell you. You had enough to carry.
Anne... The night we had together... I always wanted more. But that one, it was enough. Enough to make me love you forever. I want you to remember that... and go on. As strong as you are now. No matter what happens.
Hi.
Hi.
..sorry...
It's ok.
Hi.
Hi.
..sorry...
It's ok.
....you have it...easy....you know? You have a father who loves you, huh?
Yes.
You know what it's like to come home scared, scared that maybe if you don't have the money you're supposed to go out each day and get that you're gonna get beaten....by a belt...he hits me with a belt, Stanley.... I'm supposed to sell those candy bars, and if I don't, I come home without the money....
....Why does he do it...?
Cause he hates me....he hates me so much.
It's not right.
I hate it.
I'm sorry to put all this on you, Stanley 
I have money.
...what...?
I have money to give you.
No. No. I have to do this on my own.
I can take you to get money. I don't need it...I don't <u>need</u> it  listen to me: I can let you have money so your father won't hit you ever again  you'll have the money because I don't need it.
What is that?
It's frogs. It's raining frogs.
...fuck you mean, it's raining frogs?
It's raining frogs from the sky.
....what the fuck, what the fuck....
This happens....this is something that happens.
What the fuck is goin' on, WHAT THE FUCK IS GOING ON?
Let's go,let's go, let's go, you shoulda done that ten minutes ago 
We need more dog food 
 talk in the car, talk in the car, moves your ass, c'mon 
Cmon,cmon,cmon, that one to?
I need this one.
Why the hell do you need all four bags of books to go to school each day?
I can't carry all of them. I need them. I need my books. I need them to go to school.
Be ready at two 
Should be onethirty.
I got an audition, I won't make it here 'till two, c'mon, I'll see you later. Love you.
Love you too.
C'mon, man.
You're late, not me.
You coulda been in front 
 I didn't see you from the window.
You ready to keep winning?
Sure.
Go to it, handsome.
See you.
What's the problem, what's the problem here?
I'm fine. nothing.
Why didn't you answer those questions?
I didn't know the answer 
Bullshit. Bullshit. You know the answer to every goddamn question and I knew the answer to those questions and I'm not half as smart as you are so What Happened?
I don't know.
I didn't I'm fine, I'm fine.
Stand up.
I said I'm fine.
...oh Jesus, what the fuck...?
I'm fine. I'm fine, I just wanna keep playing 
Why did you do this?
Are we gonna keep going with this game?
Yes.
You're two fuckin' days from the record, get through this and I'II do anything for you, you just gotta get through this 
Alright.
hang in there, ok. I love you.
You have to be nicer to me, Dad.
Go to bed.
I think that you have to be nicer to me.
Go to bed.
I don't have regular classes anymore.
What do you do?
They just let me have my own studytime, my own reading time in the library.
That's pretty cool.
What are they gonna do  beat us?
Maybe.
The fuck is wrong with you?
I gotta go to the bathroom.
Did you piss your fuckin' pants, Stanley?
Shut up  shut up 
I don't wanna go, I can't do it this time.
 the fuck are you talking about?
Stanley if you don't fuckin' stand up and go over there I'm gonna beat your ass 
I'm sick of being the one, the one who always has to do everything, I don't want to be the one always 
Pink Dot.
Hi. I'd like to get an order for delivery.
Phone number.
8187530088.
Partridge?
Yeah.
What would you like?
I'd like to get an order of...um...peanut butter.
Mmm.Hmmm.
Cigarettes. Camel Lights.
mmm.hmm.
Water.
Bottled Water?
Um, no, y'know what? Forget the water, just give me a loaf of bread...white bread.
Ok.
And um....do you have Swank magazine?
Yeah.
Ok. One of those. Do you have Ram Rod? The magazine, Ram Rod?
Yeah.
Ok. One of those. And...um...Barely Legal?
yeah.
Do you have that?
yeah, I said. Is that it?
That's it.
Do you still want the peanut butter, bread and cigarettes ?
Yes. What? Yes.
Total is $15.29. Thirty minutes or less.
Thank you.
Hello.
Hi.
Cats and Dogs out there, huh?
mmmhmm.
Must have alot goin' on for all that stuff you got back there, eh? You could have quite a party all that stuff....
You been on Prozac long? Dexadrine?
...I don't....
You motherfucker...you motherfucker.... YOU FUCKING ASSHOLE, WHO THE FUCK ARE YOU? WHO THE FUCK DO YOU THINK YOU ARE?
 whatwhatwhat, ma'am  I 
I COME IN HERE  YOU DON'T KNOW, YOU DON'T KNOW WHO THE FUCK I AM OR WHAT MY LIFE IS AND YOU HAVE THE FUCKING BALLS, THE <u>INDECENCY</u> TO ASK ME A QUESTION ABOUT MY LIFE 
Linda 
What are you doing?
I've got Frank...Frank Earl's son. He's...he asked me to get him and I did 
Hang up the phone.
No, Linda, you don't understan 
PUT THE FUCKIN' PHONE DOWN, HANG IT UP.
You don't do that, you don't call him, you don't know to get involved in the bussiness of his, of his of <u>my</u> family. this is the <u>family</u>, <u>me</u> and <u>him</u> do you understand? You understand? NO ONE ELSE. THERE IS NO ONE ELSE. That man, his son does not exist. HE IS DEAD. HE IS DEAD and WHO TOLD YOU TO DO THAT?
Earl asked me, Linda, please, Linda, I'm sorry  Earl asked me 
BULLSHIT. BULLSHIT HE DIDN'T ASK YOU, HE DOESN'T WANT HIM, HE DOESN'T WANT TO TALK TO HIM, SO FUCK YOU THAT HE ASKED THAT. THERE IS NO ONE BUT ME AND HIM.
listen...listen to me now, Phil: I'm sorry, sorry I slapped your face. ...because I don't know what I'm doing... ...I don't know how to do this, y'know? You understand? y'know? I...I'm...I do things and I fuck up and I fucked up....forgive me, ok? Can you just...
....it's alright....
Tell him I'm sorry, ok, yes, you do that, now, I'm sorry, tell him, for all the things I've done...I fucked up and I'm sorry.... And I'm Gonna Turn Away And Walk Now And Not Look At Him Not See My Man, My Earl, I'll leave now...and tell him it's ok and I'm ok. The whole thing was ok with me  and I know.
You don't want any water?
No...I just... I'm so fucked up here Alan, I don't know...there's so much...so many things 
Are you on drugs right now?
If I talk to you...y'know...if I tell you things...then you're a lawyer, right? You can't say things, you can't tell anyone, it's like the privelage, right? Attorneryclient, you understand?
Not exactly, Linda. I'm not sure where you're going with this 
Like a shrink, like if I go to see a shrink, I'm protected, I can say things  fuck  I don't know what I'm doing 
Linda, you're safe. Ok. It's alright. You're my friend. You and Earl are my clients and what you need to talk about won't leave this room, you have something you have to say 
 I have something to tell you. I have to tell you something. I want to change his will, can I change his will?...I need to 
You can't change his will. Only Earl can change his will.
No, no....no, you see...I never loved him. I never loved him, Earl. When I started, when I met him, I met him and I fucked him and I married him because I wanted his money, do you understand? I'm telling you this now...this I've never told anyone...I didn't love him. And now....I know I'm in that will, I know, I was there with him, we were all there together when we made that fucking thing and all the money I'II get  I don't want it  Because I love him so much now...I've fallen in love with him now, for real, as he's dying, and I look at him and he's about to go, Alan, he's dead...he's moments... I took care of him through this, Alan. And What Now Then?
I don't want him to die, I didn't love him when we met, and I've done so many bad things to him that he doesn't know, things I want to confess to him, but now I do: I love him. I love him so much and I can't stand  he's going.
What kind of medication are you on right now, Linda that's 
This is not any fucking medication talking, this isn't  I don't know. I don't know  Can you give me nothing? You have power of attorney, can you see him, can you, in this final fucking moment, go see him and make sure  change the fucking will  I don't want any money, I couldn't live with myself, this thing I've done  I've fucking done so many bad things  I fucked around. I fucked around on him, I fucking cheated on him, Alan. You're his lawyer, our laywer, THERE, I'm his wife, we are married. I broke the conract of marriage, I fucking cheated on him, many times over, I sucked other men's cocks and fuck  fuck  fuck  ....fuck.... Other Things I've Done..
Adultery isn't illegal  it's not something that can be used in a court to discredit the will or  Linda. Linda. Calm down.
I can't.
You don't have to change the will, if what you want to do is get nothing you can renounce the will when it's time.
Where will the money go?
Well. Considering that there's no one else mentioned in the will...we'd have to go to the laws of intestacy, which is  as if someone died without a will 
What does that mean?
The money would go to Frank. The court would put the money in the hands of a relative 
 that can't happen. Earl doesn't want him to have the money, the things.
 unless Frank is specifically ommitted as a beneficiary that's what will happen.
This is so overthetop and fuckedup I can hardly stand it.
Linda, you just have to take a moment and breath and one thing at a time 
Shut the fuck up.
I'm trying to help, Linda 
Shut the fuck up. Shut the fuck up.
You need to sober up.
Now you must really shut the fuck up, please. Shut The Fuck Up.
Linda 
I have to go.
Let me call you a car, Linda.
Shut the fuck up.
Do you have an agent, Stanley?
No.
You should get one, I'm serious, you could get a lot of stuff out of this 
Like what?
Commercials, a sitcom, an MOW or something.
What's MOW?
Movie Of The Week. I went up for one this morning with Alan Thicke and Corey Haim 
They look pretty smart, I think.
No they don't 
You have to go, Stanley. You're the smartest.
I don't wanna do it. Why can't one of you do it 
Do you still have to do homework?
Not as much as I used to. Ever since we started, I haven't really gone in to school that much because I've been getting more and more auditions 
Was it a call back?
No. But I probably will get a call back.
If we beat the record, you might get a call back 
I'll get it because I'm a good actress, Richard.
Saucysaucy.
We're not going out two days before we set the record, it's not gonna happen.
When they want us done, they'll call in the Harvard S.W.A.T team or some shit.
Hello?
Hello. Is Claudia here?
She's asleep.
Are you her boyfriend?
You're Jimmy Gator, right?
Yes. What's your name?
I'm Bob.
You're her boyfriend?
No, I'm just a friend. What are you doing here, I mean...you know Claudia?
I'm her father.
Can I come in?
Yeah. She's sleeping now, I mean 
Want me to wake her up?
I'II go....is it...back here?
I'm sorry.
It's alright.
How you doing?
I'm drinking.
Slowly or quickly?
As fast as I can.
Come home soon after the show.
I went to see her  some fuckin' asshole answers the door in his underwear, he's fifty years old, there's coke and shit laid out on the table 
 did she talk to you?
She went crazy. She went crazy, Rose.
Did you tell her?
I don't know. I have to go, I don't have time and I have more drinking to do before I go march 
I love you.
Love you too..
Bye.
I don't think I want that.
It'll take the pain away.
It's not really pain.
How do we do this, then?
We just do it...we do it and we figure it out and we do as we do, I guess...
Do you love me, Rose?
You're my handsome man.
I'm a bad person.
No. No.
No, I mean: I'm telling you this, now. You see? You see I want to make everything clear and clean...and apologize for me....for all the stupid things I've done....that will eat me up....
You feel like you want to be forgiven for your sins? Honey, you're not on your death bed, yet....this kinda talk's gonna get you in trouble 
 don't. don't. Please. Just... listen to me...honey.... ...I've done...I've cheated on you.
...No...I don't hate you. Do you want talk...do you really want to talk to me and say things and get things figured out, Jimmy?
Yeah.
The question isn't wether or not you cheated on me, the question is how many times have you cheated on me?
Will that help?
Yeah.
How many times....it's ok...just say... Just say...
I don't even remember...many...twenty... maybe more...not much more...twenty times.
I don't hate you, Jimmy. But I have a couple questions that I wanna ask....
I'll answer anything.
Was there anyone that I know?
Yes.
Who?
Rose, I don't 
hey.
Paula. Ellen.
That's it.
No one else that I know?
No.
How long with Ellen?
Just once.
How long with Paula?
Two years...three years...
What about now?
It's over. I talked to her this morning.
Is it over 'cause you're sick?
It's over becuase...for all the the right reasons I hope, what I said.
Do you have any children with anyone?
What? No, Rose, jesus, no 
Well maybe.
I don't.
Do you feel better now that you've said this?
I don't know....
I'm not mad. I am, but I'm not. Y'know?
I love you so much.
I'm not through asking my questions.
Why doesn't Claudia talk to you, Jimmy?
Why, well I think we've, we both don't know...what do you mean?
I think that you know.
Maybe...I don't...
...say it, Jimmy...
Do you know the answer to this?
I'm asking you. I'm asking you if you know why Clauida will not speak to you....please, Jimmy....tell me.
I think that she thinks I may have molested her.
She thinks terrible things that somehow got in her head...that I might have done something. She said that to me last time...when it was...ten years ago she walked out the door, "You touched me wrong..." "I know that." Some crazy thought in her, in her head...
Did you ever touch her?
...No....
Jimmy, did you touch her?
I don't know.
...Jimmy...
I really don't know.
But you can't say....
<u>I don't know what I've done</u>.
Yes you do....you do and you won't say.
...I don't know...
You deserve to die alone for what you've done.
I don't know what I've done.
Yes you do.
Stay here, please don't leave me, please, please, if I said I knew would you stay?
No.
I don't know what I've done.
You should know better.
Willa Cather.
For 25. Best known for the "tragedy and blood" genre, this authorplaywright 
I'm gonna need a full name, Stanley.
Jean Baptiste Poquelin Moliere.
What were you saying, Stanley?
I was saying...thinking maybe I'd get my own quiz show someday, Jimmy. Just like you!
We are not on display. I am not a doll. I AM NOT A DOLL...I' M NOT SILLY AND CUTE. I'M SMART SO THAT SHOULDN'T MAKE ME SOMETHING, SOMETHING SO PEOPLE CAN WATCH HOW SILLY IT IS THAT HE'S SMART? I KNOW. I KNOW THINGS. I KNOW. I HAVE TO GO TO THE BATHROOM I HAVE TO GO TO THE BATHROOM AND I HAVE TO GO.
I'm sorry, Stanley.
I don't mean to cry, I'm sorry.
It's okay, Stanley. It's alright.
Rose is on the phone and here's the cards for today 
Fifteen minutes ago, where were those cards?
I'm sorry.
I need you to get me Paula 
You want her right now?
Yes. Now. Find her. She's somewhere in the building 
We're on the air in twenty minutes, Jimmy.
Find her, get her and tell her I want to talk to her, Mary. Fucking hell.
I can't fuckin' do this.
Are you alright?
Fuck. I think I'm gonna throw up, I think. I haven't thrown up since I was twenty years old.
You look great.
What the fuck is this, Jimmy?
...you know...
Did your wife find out?
No.
Then what?
It's just...too late for me to be fuckin' around. I gotta stop. I gotta clean my brain of all the shit I've done that I shouldn't have done 
 that you shouldn't have done? That you regret, what? This? What's this? Fuck, man, c'mon. Treat me like an asshole, but treat me like an <u>asshole</u>.
I don't wanna have to lie to anyone. I don't want to hurt anyone else, anymore.
Thirty fuckin' years I've been with Rose, don't  y'know  with this, and I know what you think 
All your other fluzzies?
Yeah. Yes.
You're making me feel so dirty and shitty. I feel like a big piece of shit right now.
Are you gonna tell her what you've done?
Yes.
Will you say my name?
If she asks me any question I want to tell her. I want to tell her everything I've done.
Well can you do me one favor and don't do that.
Come and tell me it's over and I'll walk away, Jimmy. I've fucked you behind your wife's back for three years, and you've fucked teenage girls behind mine for the same amount of time  I'll walk away, you need something for your life, for your conscience, but don't put me in the middle 
I won't.
What happend to you?
I got in trouble at school.
Are you ok?
Fuck no.
What? What? What now?
Quietly, slow down, whoa 
You can't just come in here.
The door was open, I got a call 
You're just come in 
Calm down.
I am calm.
I got a call to this apartment, report of a disturbance 
There's no disturbance.
I got a call of a disturbance, you're door was open, I just wanna see what's goin' on 
There's no disturbance.
Then you've got nothin' to worry about.
You don't tell me, I know my rights, just come right in, you can't 
Don't test me, you wanna talk about what the law book says, we can do that, push me far enough and I'll take you to jail  now calm down.
I AM CALM.
You're not calm. You're screamin' and yellin' and I'm here to check on a disturbance that was reported and that's what I'm gonna do  now are you alone in here?
I don't have to answer your questions.
No you don't: But I'm gonna ask you one more time: Are you alone in here?
What does it look like?
No one else in here?
You're here.
OK. That's true. Is anyone else, besides me and besides you in this house?
No. I said that.
Are you lyin' to me?
I live alone.
Maybe so, but I'm gonna ask you one more time: Is Anyone Else In This House Right Now?
No I Said.
Ok. What's your name?
Marcie.
Ok. Marice why don't you take a seat for me?
I preffer to stand.
I'm not askin', Marcie.
I didn't do anything.
Maybe you didn't, but I'm here to find out about a disturbance. Some neighbors called said they heard screaming and a loud crash.
I don't know a loud crash.
And what about screaming?
I said: I DON'T KNOW. You can't just come in here and start pokin' around 
What's this, how did this happen?
You just woke up. And what'd you have a party last night, the way this place looks?
I went out last night.
Ok. Marcie. Starting now I want you to have a new attitude with me. The more you play games, the more suspicious I'm gonna become that you've been up to something.
It's a free country, you can think anything you want.
Yes I can, Marcie. And until you start givin' me some straight answers: I'm gonna assume that some mischief has been goin' on here.
Mischief? What the fuck you talkin' about, mischief?
Bad and illegal behavior. That's what I mean. Ok? Mischief. Now have you been doin' some drugs today?
No.
You on any medication?
No.
Been drinkin' today?
It's ten o'clock in the morning 
 What was that?
I didn't hear anything.
No. No. Stay down, Marcie, sit back down on that couch 
I don't have to do a god damn thing.
WHAT'S THIS? WHAT'S THIS? GOD DAMN BULLSHIT. BULLSHIT. DON'T PUT THOSE 
Marcie  CALM DOWN. CALM DOWN and don't do this. I want you to stay 
This is the LAPD. If anyone is back here I want you to come out and I want you to show yourself to me with your hands in the air 
THERE'S NO ONE IN THERE. STAY OUT OF MY MOTHERFUCKIN BEDROOM.
This is the LAPD, if anyone is in the closet I want you to come out and show yourself to me, slowly and with your hands up 
THERE'S NO ONE IN THERE!
Marcie  quiet down! Now if anyone is in the closet, come out now 
THERE'S NO ONE IN MY MOTHERFUCKIN CLOSET AND STAY OUT OF MY BEDROOM, STAY OUT OF MY GOD DAMN BEDROOM.
 do not do this  my gun is drawn and If I Have To Open That Closet you will get shot  Step Out Now.
What the hell is this Marcie?
THAT'S NOT MINE.
Hello. Frank. Frank TJ Mackey.
...are you Phil...?
Yeah. I was trying to get in touch with you. We got dissconnected.
I got your message. That you were trying to get me  right?
Yes. I didn't know how to find you. Earl asked me, so I looked through the adress books and there was no number, nothing 
Is Linda here?
She's not here, she went out. I'm sorry. This is all just so, I don't know what, what to do  your Dad asked me to try and track you down. To get you and I did, I called the number  Do you wanna come in?
Yeah let's...maybe just stand.
These Dogs'll calm down  you just have to come in 
He's in here.
Let's just wait one minute and stay here, okay?
Ok.
How long have you taken care of him?
For six months. I'm the day nurse...
Uhhuh. What's going on?
He's...I'm sorry...so sorry...I've seen this before, you know and you don't.... He's going very fast....Frank...um....
Is he in pain?
I just...he was...but I gave him, I just had to give him a small dose of liquid morphine. He hasn't been able to swallow the morphine pills so we now, I just had to go to the liquid morphine... For the pain, you understand?
...uhhuh...
How long...you think?
Um...soon tonight...I think, yes? Tommorrow...I mean...very soon...very...
When did he go off chemo?
About three weeks ago.
.....have you ever seen this..I mean, never mind, you said 
I work as a nurse, for a proffesion 
Uh. huh.
I'm really sorry.
He's in here ?
Yeah.
I've heard your tapes on the phone.
Oh yeah.
When they put me on hold, to talk to you...they play the tapes. I mean: I'd seen the commercials and heard about you, but I'd never heard the tapes ....
Uh. huh.
It's interesting.
Mmm.
So....Phil....um...I think I'm gonna step in and try and see him and say something if he can...talk...I mean:
...ok...
Can you stand...back...maybe, I mean... just a little bit...in the room is ok, but back from us a little...
yeah.
I'm here. I'm here now. What do you want? Do you want anything?
I don't think, he can't...
...just wait...Dad...you want something...can you say...
Where are you from originally?
Around here.
the valley?
Hollywood, mainly.
And what did your parents do?
My father worked in televison. My mother  this is gonna sound silly to you  she was a librarian.
Why does that sound silly?
Well I guess it doesn't.
Does you mother still work?
She's retired.
Are you close?
She's my mother.
What does she say about, "Seduce and Destroy."
"Go Get 'Em, Honey."
And your father?
He passed away.
I'm sorry.
people die.
I wouldn'tve asked 
Not a problem.
And you ended up at UC Berkely 
From '84 to '89.
Psychology major?
Right.
Do you have your masters?
...this close...
In five years?
And you went to Van Nuys High, right?
I don't how much I went  but I was enrolled. I was such a loser back then. I was  misguided, pathetic  I was very fat. Not even close to what I am today. Not the Frank TJ Mackey you're eager to talk to because I was swimming in what <u>was</u> as opposed to I <u>wanted</u>.
Where does that name come from?
What name? My name?
It's not your given name, right?
My mother's name, actually. Good question. You've done you're research.
And "Frank?"
"Frank" was my mother's father.
Ok. That's why. I had trouble locating your school records at Berkely and UCLA. Your name change  they had no official enrollment 
Oh, yeah. No, no, no. They wouldn't 
They wouldn't?
no, no, no. Certainly not. I wasn't officialy enrolled, that's right. Was that unclear?
Kind of.
I wouldn't want that to be misunderstood: My enrollment was totally unoffical because I was, sadly, unable to afford tuition up there. But there were three wonderful men who were kind enough to let me sit in on their classes, and they're names are: Macready, Horn and Langtree among others. I was completely independent financially, and like I said: One Sad Sack A Shit. So what we're looking at here is a true rags to riches story and I think that's what most people respond to in "Seduce," And At The End Of The Day? Hey  it may not even be about picking up chicks and sticking your cock in it  it's about finding What You Can Be In This World. Defining It. Controling It and saying: I will take what is mine. You just happen to get a blow job out of it, then heywhatthefuck whynot? he.he.he.
Are you asking me a question?
Well I guess the question is this: Do you remember Miss Simms?
That's fine. It's nice to meet you.
Are we gonna tape some stuff now?
If you're up to it, I've got us set up in a suite upstairs 
You got us a room so quick?
All it takes is one second?
Just one look, one hesitation, one subtle gesture for me to know  And BingBamBoom I'm away on a tangent  I get so fuckin' amped at these seminars and lemme tell you why: Because I Am What I Believe. I am what I teach, I do as I say, I live by these rules as religiously as I preach them: And you wanna know what? I'm gettin' pussy left, right, up, down, center and sideways.
I'm gonna start rolling 
 go, go, go. I'm givin' pearls here. And I'II tell you samethin' else: I'm not succeding in the bush because I'm Frank TJ Mackey. If anything, there are women out there that want to <u>destroy</u> me  it makes it twice as hard for me, I run into some little muffin, knows who I am, knows my schemes and plans  shit, she's gonna wanna fuck around, prove to her friends, say, "Yadddayaddayadda, I saw that guy, he wasn't anything, didn't get me." So me? I'm runnin' on full throttle the whole fuckin' time. Dodging bullets left and right from terrorist blonde beauties. But I'II tell you this: The battle of the bush is being fought and won by Team Mackey. Can I have a cigarette?
Ok. So, lemme just ask you a couple questions to start 
 see, I thought you grew up here in the valley 
Like I said, yeah 
 that's right, that's right, and what I'M saying, that none of my competitors can say is this: That there is no need for insight or understanding. Things of the past! Gone, Over, Done. Do you realize how fucking miraculous this is? How fucking razor sharp and cutting edge and ahead of it's time this concept is? I'm talking about eliminating <u>insight</u> and <u>understanding</u> as human values. GOD DAMN I'M GOOD. There is no need for INSIGHT. There is no need for UNDERSTANDING. I have found a way to take <u>any</u> subjective human experience  in other words  all the terrible shit or all the great shit that you've had happen to you in your life  and quickly and easily transform it in the unconscious mind through the subtle and cunning use of language. The "listenerpatient" settles into a very light, very delicate, conversationally induced state: NOT A TRANCE, mind you, but a STATE. A state that is brand new. The System's state. What did I do? I REALIZED that concept and put it into practical "get my dick hard and fuck it" use. I'm gonna build a state for the seducer and the seducee to live, vote, breath, pay takes and party 'till dawn. I'm gonna teach methods of language that will help anyone get a piece of ass, tit and tail 
Let's talk about 
I just realized this is for television, isn't it? I can't swear up and down like I just did.
It's fine. I can bleep it out.
I warned you  I get on a roll...
 let's talk more about your background 
Muffy  coffee?
I'm confused about your past is the thing.
Is that still lingering?
 just to clarify 
So boring, so useless 
I would just want to clear some things up:
Thank you, Muffy. Funny thing is: This is an important element of, "Seduce and Destory:" "Facing the past is an important way in not making progress," that's something I tell my men over and over 
This isn't meant 
 and I try and teach the students to ask: What is it in aid of?
Are you asking me that?
Yes.
Well, just trying to figure out who you are, and how you might have become 
In aid of what?
I'm saying, Frank, in trying to figure out who you are 
 there's a lot more important things I'd like to put myself <u>into</u> 
It's all important 
Not really.
It's not like I'm trying to attack you 
This is how you wanna spend the time, then go, go, go  you're gonna be surprised at what a waste it is  "The most useless thing in the world is that which is behind me," Chapter Three 
We talked earlier about your mother. And we talked about your father and his death. And I don't want to be challenging or defeatist here, but I have to ask and I would want to clarify something  something that I understand 
I'm not sure I hear a question in there?
Do you remember a Miss Simms?
I know alotta women and I'm sure she remembers me.
She does. From when you were a boy.
Mm. Hm.
She lived in Tarzana.
An old stomping ground is this the "attack" portion of the interview, I figured this was coming sooner or later  Is "the girl" coming in for the kill?
No, this is about getting something right and claryfying one of your answers to an earlier question 
Go ahead and waste your time.
I was told that your mother died. That your mother died when you were young 
And that's what you've heard?
I talked to Miss Simms. Miss Simms was your caretaker and neighbor after your mother died in 1980.
C'mon, Frank. What are you doing?
What am I doing?
Yeah.
I'm quietly judging you.
Time's up. Thank you for the interview.
So you sat it out, that's what you did?
You requested my time and I gave it you, you called me a liar and made accusations. And you say, "If I'd known I wouldn't have asked," then it's not an attack? Well, I don't wanna be the sort of fella who doesn't keep his word. I gave you my time, Bitch. So fuck you now.
You're hurting a lot of people, Frank 
 fuck you.
Hello?
Hi. Is Frank there?
I think you have the wrong number.
I'm looking for Frank Mackey.
No.
Is this 5099027?
Yeah. You have the wrong number. There's no one named Frank here.
Alright. Thank you.
Yep.
How's today then?
Fuckin' bullshit is what this is.
Fuckin' bullshit is right, in'it?
...no...no goddamn use. I have a son, y'know?
You do?
...ah...
Where is he?
I don't know...I mean, he's around, he's here, in town, y'know, but I don't know...he's a tough one...very.... Do you have a girlfriend, Phil?
No.
Get a girlfriend.
I'm trying.
And do good things with her...share the thing...all that bullshit is true, y'know...find someone and hold on all that...Where's Linda?
She went out. She said she went out to run some errands. She'll be back.
She's a good girl. She's a little nuts, but she's a good girl I think. She's a little daffy.
She loves you.
...ah...maybe...yeah...she's a good one...
When was the last time you talked to your son?
....I dunn...o....maybe ten...five, fuck, fuck....that's another thing that goes 
 memory?
Time lines, y'know? I remember things but not so  right there  y'know?
Yeah.
"yeah." the fuck do you know?
I've seen it before.
Other fuckin' assholes like me.
There's no asshole like you.
...cocksucker....
How come every word you say is either "cocksucker," or "shitballs," or "fuck?"
Do me a personal favor 
Go fuck myself?
You got it.
...I can't hold onto this anymore...
I'll get you another pain pill. Another morphine pill 
...gimme that fuckin' phone...
Who are you gonna call?
I wanna see this...where is he, do you know?
Who?
Jack.
Is Jack your son?
You wanna call him on the phone? We can call him, I can dial the phone if you can remember the number 
 it's not him. it's not him. He's the fuckin' asshole...Phil..c'mere...
This is so boring...so goddamn... and dying wish and all that, old man on a bed...fuck...wants one thing:
It's ok.
...find him on the...Frank. His name's Frank Mackey 
Frank Mackey. That's your son?
that'snotmy name...find Lily, gimmme that, give it 
Do you know Lily? Phil..do you know her?
No.
...Lily...?
No.
She's my love...my life...love of it... In school when you're 12 years old. In school, in six grade....and I saw her and I didn't go to that school...but we met. And my friend knew her...I would say, "What's that girl?" "How's that Lily?" "Oh, she's a bad girl...she sleeps with guys..." My friend would say this....but then sometime...I went to another school, you see? But then...when high school at the end, what's that? What is that? When you get to the end?
Graduation?
No, no, the grade...the grade that you're in?
Twelve.
Yeah...So I go to her school for that for grade twelve...and we meet...she was fuckin...like a doll...porcelain doll...and the hips...child bearing hips...y'know that? So beautiful. But I didn't have sex with anyone, you know? I was not...I couldn't do anything...always scared, y'know... she was...she had some boyfriends...they liked her y'know...but I didn't like that. I couldn't get over that I wasn't a man, but she was a woman. Y'see? Y'see I didn't make her feel ok about that....I would say, "How many men you been with?" She told me, I couldn't take it...take that I wasn't a man....because if I hadn't had sex with women...like as many women as she had men...then I was weak...a boy.... But I loved her...you understand? ....well, of course, I wanted to have sex with her...and I did and we were together....we met...age twelve, but then again...age seventeen...something, somethin... I didn't let her forget that I thought she was a bad...a slut.....a slut I would call her and hit her....I hit her for what she did...but we married...Lily and me and we married...but I cheated on her...over and over and over again...because I wanted to be a man and I couldn't let her be a woman...a smart, free person who was something...my mind then, so fuckin' stupid, so fuckin....jesus christ, what would I think...did I think....? ...for what I've done...She's my wife for thirty eight years...I went behind her... over and over...fucking asshole I am that I would go out and fuck and come home and get in her bed and say "I love you..." This'z Jack's mother. His mother Lily...these two that I had and I lost .... and this is the regret that you make...the regret you make is the something that you take...blah...blah...blah... something, something..... Gimme a cigarettee?
She had cancer...from her...in her stomach and I didn't go anywhere with her...and I didn't do a god thing... for her and to help her....shit...this bitch...the beautiful, beautiful bitch with perfect skin and child bearing hips and so soft...her namewasLilysee? He liked her though he did, his mom, Frank/Jack...he took care of her and she died. She didn't stick with him and he thinks and he hates me, ok...see...I'm...that's then what you get? ....are you still walkin' in that car...?
What? Say it again...walking in the car?
....getthat on the tv....there...
 he's fucking dying, he's dying as we're sitting here and there isn't a fucking thing  jesus, how can you tell me to calm down?
I can help you through this the best I know how but there are certain things you are gonna have to be strong about and take care of, now we can go over them, but I need to know that you're listening to me, ok?
I just, I just  I just  I'm just in a fucking state, I know he's going and it's like I don't know how  just tell me <u>practical</u> things  What the fuck do I do with his body? What happens when he dies? That next moment: What? What do I do? Then What?
Well that's what Hospice will take care of for you. They will send a nurse, someone who can take care of all of that for you 
He has Phil right now.
Phil's one of the nurses from the service?
Yeah.
If you're happy with Phil taking care of him and helping you, that's fine, but contact Hospice to arrange for the body 
 you don't understand: it's more pain than before and the fucking morphine pills aren't working, he's  past two days it's like he can't really swallow them and I don't know if they're going down  I can't see inside his mouth anymore  I'm up all night staring at him and I don't think the pills are going down and he moans and he hurts 
We can fix that, because I can give you  are you listening?
I'm listening. I'm getting better.
Do you wanna sit down?
I need to sit down.
Ok. Linda: Earl is not gonna make it. He's dying. He is. He is dying very, very rapidly 
This is the number for Hospice. Ok. Now. As far as the morphine pills go, there is something else to consider that can take the pain away that he is in, there is a very strong and very potent solution of liquid morphine....it's a little bottle, with an eye dropper and it's easy to get in his mouth and drop on his tounge and it will certainly diminish the pain that he is in but you have to realize that once you give it to him; there really is no coming back, I mean, it will certainly cure his pain, but he will float in and out of consciousness, even worse than he is now, Linda. I mean, any sign of the recognizable Earl will pretty much go away 
 how the fuck can I say anything to that  I don't know what to say to that 
The job here is to make him as comfortable as possible  right now  our job is to just try and make it as painless as possible. Right? You understand?
...please...
Don't Donnie. Don't do it.
This is so fucked, Solomon. I don't deserve this.
Don't get strong, Donnie. This is making sense, this making a lot of sense. You are not doing the job, the job I ask you to do, a job I give you. Over and over and over and I'm sorry. But I'm not gonna say I'm sorry that much more.
Solomon: I am in the middle of so much. So much in my life and this is  If you do this, if you fire me: I Am Fucked. I can't really explain much, but please, please, I've worked here for four years, four years I've given you and I'm, I'm, I mean what? I'm sorry I was late. I had a car accident. I accidentaly drove into a seveneleven. It was not my fault.
I don't have any money, Solomon. If you fire me 
 I give you money, I give you a paycheck. Your sales suck, Don. I give, I give. When I find you, when I meet you, what? I put you on the billboard, I put you in the store, my salesman, my fucking representation of Solomon and Solomon Electronic, Quiz Kid Donnie Smith from the game show 
I lent my name, my celebrity. Exactly 
FUCK YOU. I pay you, I paid you. I give you a fucking chance and a chance and over and over, over you let me down. I trust you with so much. The keys to my store, the codes to my locks, the life, the blood of my bussiness and return is smashing in seveneleven, late, <u>always</u> late, loans  I loaned you money for your kitchen that you never did 
I paid you back.
Two years! Two years later and out of your paycheck, I never charge interest 
Solomon, please. Please. I am so fucked here if you do this. This is the worst timing. The worst timing I could ever imagine. I need to keep working. I have so many debts, so many things, I have, I have, I have  I have surgery  I have my oral surgery coming 
What is that?
Braces.
Braces?
Yes.
You don't need braces.
Yes I do.
Your teeth are fine.
And how much is braces?
It's...doesn't matter....
I've been a good worker 
Don't do this, Don.
I don't know.
You were gonna ask me weren't you?
I've been a good worker, Solomon. A hard and loyal 
Give me your keys, Don.
PLEASE DON'T DO THIS!
GIMME YOUR FUCKIN' KEYS.
You look like you've got money in your pocket.
Maybe I'm just happy to see my friend, Brad there.
Just throw some money around. Money, money, money.
This sounds threatening.
Do you have love in your heart?
I have love all over. I even have love for you, friend.
Is it real love?
Well 
 the kind of love that makes you feel that intagible joy. Pit of your stomach. Like a bucket of acid and nerves running around and making you hurt and happy and all over you're head over heels....?
Well you lost me with the last couple of cocktail words spoken, m'boy, but I believe it's that sort of love. Sounds nice to me.
I have love.
A very chattykind, you do, indeed, it seems.
No. I mean, I'm telling you: I'm telling you that I have love.
And I'm listening avidly, fellow.
My name is Donnie Smith and I have lot's of love to give.
....do you know who I am?
You're a friend of the family I presume?
What? What does that mean?
Nothing special, just a spoke in the wheel.
You talk in rhymes and riddles and ra...rubadub  but that doesn't mean anything to me, see....see...see I used to be smart....I'm Quiz Kid Donnie Smith. I'm Quiz Kid Donnie Smith from the tv 
Might of been before my time.
But you're alright now, so what's the what?
What?
That's right.
I used to be smart but now I'm just stupid.
Brad, dear?
Who was it that said: "A man of genius has seldom been ruined but by himself."
 Samuel Johnson.
It was the lovely Samuel Johnson who also spoke of a fella "Who was not only dull but a cause of dullness in others."
"The" cause of dullness in others 
Picky, picky.
 and lemme tell you this: Samuel Johnson never had his life shit on and taken from him and his money stolen  who took his life and his money? His parents? His mommy and daddy? Make him live this life like this  "A man of genius" gets shit on as a child and that scars and it hurts and have you ever been hit by lighting? It hurts and it doesn't happen to everyone, it's an electrical charge that finds it's way across the universe and lands in your body and your head  and as for "ruined but by himself," not if his parents take his friggin' life and his money and tell you to do this and do that and if you don't? well, what 
Things go round 'n round, don't they?
Yes they do, they do, but I'll make my dreams come true, you see? I will.
This sounds Sad as a Weeping Willow.
I used to be smart but now I'm just stupid.
Shall we drink to that?
"If a brick weighs one pound plus one half brick  how much does the brick weigh?" "Well if subtracting the half of brick from the whole brick you got one half of brick, equals one pound so therefore the brick equals two pounds " "A little more than kin and less than kind," is Hamlet to Claudius. "The sins of the father laid upon the children," is Merchant of Venice but borrowed from Exodus 20:5 and "win her with gifts if she respects not words," is Two Gentleman from Verona. Where? Who? How and Why, Kids?
"Why don't you shut the fuck up," is me to you, Chapter Right Here, Verse Right Now.
I confuse melancholy and depression sometimes....
Mmm.Hmm.
You see?
Why don't you run along now friend, your dessert is getting cold.
I'm sick.
Stay that way.
I'm sick and I'm in love.
You seem the sort of person who confuses the two.
That's right. That's the first time you're right. I CONFUSE THE TWO AND I DON'T CARE.
I love you. I love you and I'm sick. I'II talk to you....I'll talk to you tommorrow. I'm getting corrective oral surgery tomorrow. For my teeth. For my teeth and for you....for you so we can speak. You have braces. Me too. Me too. I'm getting braces, too. For you. For you, dear Brad. And I don't have any money. And I don't have any money now but I'II get it...I will for you, Brad. I love you, Brad. Brad the Bartender. You wanna love me back? Love me back and I'll be good to you. I'II be god damn good for you. And I won't be mad if you don't know who said what. I won't punish you if you get the answer wrong. I can teach and tell you: Samuel Johnson.
Brad, honey, you have a special secret crush over here I think, don't take him too lovely  he might get hurt 
You mind your own bussines.
Gently, son 
Brad, I know you don't love me now 
"It's a dangerous thing to confuse chidlren with angels..."
 and you wanna know the common element for the entire group, like he asks...I'll tell you the answer: I'll tell you, 'cause I had that question. I had that same question....Carbon. In pencil led, it's in the form of graphite and in coal, it's all mixed up with other impurities and in the diamond it's in hard form. "Well...all we were asking was the common element, Donnie...but thank you for all that unnecessary knowledge...ahhh, Kids! Full of useless thoughts, eh?" Thank you. Thank you. And the book says: "We may be through with the past but the past is not through with us." And NO IT'S NOT DANGEROUS TO DO THAT.
Doc it's Janet.
What's up?
I have to talk to Frank, is he nearby?
He's doing the interview with the lady 
I need you to interupt him, I need to get him on the phone with me right away 
What happend?
Doc, go get Frank and put him on the phone.
I'm walking towards the elevator's, Janet.
Fine. Phil, you still there?
What happend?
Doc, just  don't, how close are you?
I'm about to get off the elevator 
Phil, hang in just one more minute ok? I'm gonna put you on hold  Doc you still there?
Yeah, I'm here, I'm off the elevator, walking down the hall, now 
How much you pay me for my help?
I think it's more complicated than that little man.
Put me on the payroll, find out, find out wassup 
You don't just sign up to be a police officer  it's about three years of training  ok?
I'm trained, I'm ready to go, you wanna buy some candy to help underprivelaged youth in the 
Sorry, little man.
You wanna take my statement, I'll perform for you, gotta get paid though, gotta get PAID.
Why the hell aren't you in school?
No school today. My teacher got sick.
They don't have substitute teachers where you go to school?
Nope. So what'd they find out in there?
That's confidential information, little man.
Tell me what you know, I'll tell you what I know 
No Can Do.
Leave this one to the detectives, they ain't gonna solve shit, I can help you, make you the man with a plan, give you the gift that I flow  think fast  you wanna know who killed that guy?
Ok. Listen. You: c'mere.
No.
You wanna disrespect an officer of the law?
I can help you solve the case, I can tell you who did it.
Are you a joker? huh? Tellin' jokes?
I'm a rapper.
Oh, you're a rapper, huh? You got a record contract?
Not yet  "give you the clue for the bust if you show me some trust "
Have you ever been to Juvenille Hall?
I ain't fuckin with you 
Hey. Watch the mouth. Watch it.
C'mon, man, just watch me, watch and listen 
Go. Hurry up. Let's go.
Presence  with a double ass meaning gifts I bestow, with my riff, and my flow but you don't hear me though think fast, catch me, yo cause I throw what I know with a Resonance  fo'yo'troubleass fiend in weenin yoself off the back of the shelf Jackass crackas, bodystackas dicktootin niggas, masturbatin' yo trigga butcha y'all just fakeass niggas 
 watch the mouth, homeboy, I don't need to hear that word 
 livin' to get older with a chip on your shoulder 'cept you think you got a grip, cauze you hip gotta holster? Ain't no confessor, so busta, you best just Shut The fuck up, try to listen and learn 
Alright, alright, cut it, coolio. That's enough with the mouth and the language.
I'm almost done.
Finish it up without the lip.
Check that ego  come off it  I'm the profit  the proffesor Ima teach you 'bout The Worm, who eventually turned to catch wreck with the neck of a long time oppressor And he's runnin from the devil, but the debt is always gaining And if he's worth being hurt, he's worth bringin' pain in  When the sunshine don't work, the Good Lord bring the rain in.
Now that shit will help you SOLVE the case.
Whatever that meant, I'm sure it's real helpful IceT.
Did you listen to me?
I was listening 
 I told you who did it and you're not listening to me.
 and I'm through playin' games.
DADDY! DAD! DAD WHAT THE HELL IS GOIN' ON?
Stay quiet...stay quiet, son 
LET'S GO, LET'S GO, LET'S GET HIS MONEY AND GO  DID YOU GET HIS MONEY? DID YOU GET IT? DID YOU GET HIS MONEY, DAD?
No, Son...be quiet...be quiet now...
C'mon, Dad. We gotta just GET HIS MONEY AND GO, LET'S GO. Let's get the money 
We're not gonna do that now. We're not gonna do that now and that's over.
BULLSHIT. BULLSHIT, DAD WE NEED TO GET HIS MONEY AND GO.
GIVE US YOUR MONEY MAN.
Son, don't 
BULLSHIT, BULLSHIT DAD WE GOTTA GET HIS MONEY 
 no.
GIVE US YOUR MONEY.
Put the gun down, please, boy.
GIVE US YOUR MONEY, KID.
Son, please, now....
DAD 
Please, boy, put it down and it's ok.
It's ok 
We gotta get his money so we can get outta here  we gotta 
That idea is over now. We're not gonna do that now.
DADDY, FUCK, DADDY, DON'T GET MAD AT ME. DON'T GET MAD AT ME  JUST GIMME YOUR MONEY.
I'm not mad, son, I will not be mad at you and it's ok and please put it down and I won't be mad and I won't 
DAD.
I  just  thought  that  I  didn't want  I  didn't  I  didn't 
It's ok, boy.
What do you mean, "like what?"  you could get endorsments and shit 
 Richard.
Bite it, Cynthia. You could get free things from people that want you to endorse their products.
Let's go, c'mon, get up 
Did we win or lose, I mean ?
I don't know, Richard, they need to talk it over 
Richard, shut it and keep it down.
If he hadn't pissed his pants, we woulda won. We fucking had this game.
I'm fine. Yes. I'm fine.
Ready to go,go,go?
Where's Richard and Julia?
They're here, they're fine. In the dressing room. See you later 
Where's the news department at this studio?
It's upstairs.
Have you ever been there?
Sure, why?
I'm wondering about the weather department. I'm wonderin' wether or not the weather people use outside meteorlogical services or if they have inhouse instruments?
I can check on that for you, maybe we can take a tour 
Ok.
C'mon guys, settle down 
Cynthia?
What?
How much time do we have?
Not enough, what do you want?
I should maybe go to the bathroom.
Can you hold it?
I don't know.
Just hold it, you'll be fine.
I have to go to the bathroom, Cynthia.
Jesus Christ, Stanley, you can't go to the bathroom now. You have exactly one minute before we're back on the air, this is NOT the time to go to the bathroom.
I'm, I need to go, I'm gonna 
What happend, what's going on?
NOTHING. NOTHING HAPPEND. GO AWAY.
Don't tell me to go away, Stanley. I am the Coordinator in this show and you will answer the questions that I ask, you understand?
Hello. You're back again, huh?
yeah, yes, hi, hello.
 can I get you?
Diet Coke.
Diet Coke.
I want a shot of tequila too.
 what kind?
It doesn't matter.
 you the resident here?
Yes.
You alone in there?
No, what's wrong?
You mind if I come in, check things?
You live alone?
Yes.
What's your name?
Claudia.
Claudia What?
...Hello...?
LAPD. Open the door.
uh...uh...What is it?
It's the LAPD, can you open the door, please?
OPEN THE DOOR.
I'm coming!
...yeah...
I'm sorry, I had to get dressed.
Yes.
No one else in there with you?
For what?
Ok. For one thing, we're gonna need to turn that music down so we can talk, ok?
I'm sorry.
Wilson.
Ok. Claudia Wilson: You tryin' to go deaf?
What?
Did you hear what I said?
Yeah, but I don't know 
 listenin' to that music so loud: You Tryin' To Damage Your Ears?
No.
Well if you keep listenin' to the music that loud you're not only gonna damage your ears but your neighbors ears.
I didn't realize it was that loud.
And that could be the sign of a damaged ear drum, you understand?
Yeah.
You got the TV on too, keep those on at that same time usually?
No.
I got a call of a disturbance, screaming and yelling, loud music. Has there been some screaming and yelling?
Yes. I had someone come to my door, someone I didn't want here and I told them to leave  so  it's no big deal. They left. I'm sorry.
Was it a boyfriend of yours?
No.
You don't have a boyfriend?
No.
Who was it?
I was...he's gone...I mean it's not. It's over, y'know 
You mind if I check things back here?
It's fine.
What are you lookin' for?
Claudia: Why don't you let me handle the questions and you handle the answers, ok?
ok.
You just move in here?
About two years ago.
Bit messy.
Yeah.
I'm a bit of a slob myself.
Yeah.
You and your boyfriend have a party last night?
I don't have a boyfriend.
got some coffee brewing, huh?
Yeah...it's not...it's been on for a bit 
I like iced coffee, generally, but a day like this, rain and what not, I enjoy a warm cup 
 do you wanna cup?
That's great, thank you.
I don't know how fresh it's gonna be 
Oh, it'll be fine, I'm sure, Claudia.
You take cream or sugar?
That'd be fine. So, Claudia, lemme just say, so I can get my role of LAPD officer out of the way before we enjoy our coffee I'm not gonna write you up or anything, I'm not gonna give you a citation here  but the real problem we have is that there are people around here, people that work from their homes, people tryin' to get some work done, and if you're listenin' to your music that loud: They're incovenienced by that. If you had a job you'd probably understand, but I see you like listenin' to your music and that's fine, you're just gonna wanna keep it down at a certain volume, maybe memorize what number you see on the dial and just always put it to that  If it's the middle of the day  that's what I do  just put it on two and a half and that's a good listening level, alright? I see you like listenin' to your music loud, but, hey, forget about the neighbors, you end up damaging your own ears ok?
Yeah.
Arlight, then. Cheers.
Is this boyfriend bothering you?
I don't have a boyfriend.
The gentleman who came to the door 
 is not my boyfriend.
Many times, in damestic abuse situations the young lady is afraid to speak, but I have to tell you that, being a police officer, I've seen it happen: Young woman afraid to speak, next thing you know, I'm gettin' a call on the radio, I got a 422 
It's not  what's a 422?
It's where situations like these lead, Claudia, unless you do something about it early, if and when the police call and come for help. Now there are certain measures you can take 
It's not my boyfriend  and it's not anything  it's over. Really. It's not. He won't came back.
I don't wanna have to come back here in an hour and find that there's been another disturbance.
You won't. You won't have to.
But I wouldn't mind comin' back in an hour just to see your pretty face!
I'm gonna run to the bathroom real quick.
Okeydoke.
Ok, ok. I'm back.
This is, for not a fresh cup, a great cup of coffee, Claudia 
Thank you.
 yeah, yeah, I get in it in my ear. It's TMJ is what it's called technically.
What's that stand for?
Tempuralsomethingmandibular, thing with something, I dunno. But it affects my ear, I don't even know if I have TMJ exactly but just very tight, like  it's like a muscle spasm and it's just gets so clenched 
This is my job.
We were just gettin' warmed up. We were just getting started.
Well if you listen' to that music too loud again and that fella returns maybe we'll share another cup of coffee 
If you're not here for a 422 
No. No. Don't joke about that. That's not funny, Claudia. Please, now.
I'm sorry.
Ok, then. Keep your chin up and your music down, alright?
Yes. I will. It was nice to meet you Officer Jim.
Just Jim.
yeah, good, ok.
Bye, bye, Claudia.
Good bye.
I'm sorry, Claudia.
What is it? Did you forget something?
No, no. I was wondering...man oh man. I think I feel like a bit of a scumbucket doing this, considering that I came here as an officer of the law and the situation and all this but I think I'd be a fool if I didn't do something I really want to do which is to ask you on a date.
You wanna go on a date with me?
Please, yes.
Well...is that illegal?
No.
Then...I'd like to go...What do you want to do?
I don't know. I haven't thought about it  you know what  that's not true  I have thought about it. I've thought about going on a date with you since you opened the door.
Really?
Yeah.
I thought you were flirting with me a little.
Do you wanna go tonight? I mean, are you working?
No, I'm off tonight. I would lovlike, to go tonight, I can pick you up, I can pick you up here at about what time? What time?
Eight o'clock?
What about ten o'clock, is that too late? I don't get off and then 
Oh sure yes, that's fine, late dinners are good. Should I get dressed up or  ?
No, no, just casual maybe, maybe I thought  there's a spot I like to go, it's real nice that overlooks a golf course and the course is lit up at night 
Billingsley's?
Yeah, You know it? You know Billingsley's?
It's my favorite place 
Oh, see? This is great. Ten o'clock.
Great, bye.
Bye.
Did you ever go out with someone and just....lie....question after question, maybe you're trying to make yourself look cool or better than you are or whatever, or smarter or cooler and you just  not really lie, but maybe you just don't say everything 
Well, that's a natural thing, two people go out on a date, something. They want to impress people, the other person...or they're scared maybe what they say will make the other person not like them 
So you've done it 
Well I don't go out very much.
Why not?
I've never found someone really that I think I would like to go out with.
And I bet you say that to all the girls 
No, no.
You wanna make a deal with me?
ok.
What I just said...y'know, people afraid to say things....no guts to say the things that they...that are real or something...
...yeah...
To not do that. To not do that that we've maybe done  before 
Let's make a deal.
Ok. I'll tell you everything and you tell me everything and maybe we can get through all the piss and shit and lies that kill other people....
Wow....huh..."...piss and shit..."
What?
You really use strong language.
I'm sorry 
 no, no, it's fine. Fine.
I didn't mean...it's seems vulgar or something, I know 
It's fine.
I'm sorry.
...nothing. I'm sorry...
No, I'm sorry. I'm saying I'm sorry. I talk like a jerk sometimes 
 well I'm a real...y'know, straight when it comes to that...curse words I just don't use much 
I'm sorry.
I'm gonna run to the bathroom for a minute...maybe just 
ok.
ok.
Well.
That felt good to do...to do what I wanted to do.
Yeah.
Can I tell you something?
Yeah, of course.
I'm really nervous that you're gonna hate me soon. That you're gonna find stuff out about me and you're gonna hate me 
 no, like what, what do you mean?
You're a police officer. You have so much, so many good things and you seem so together...so all straight and put together without problems.
I lost my gun.
What?
I lost my gun after I left you today and I'm the laughing stock of a lot of people. I wanted to tell you that. I wanted you to know...and it's on my mind and it makes me look like a fool and I feel like a fool and you asked that we should say things, that we should say what we're thinknig and not lie about things and I'll tell you that, this: that I lost my gun and I'm not a good cop...and I'm looked down at...and I know that....and I'm scared that once you find that out you might not like me.
Oh my god, Jim. Jim, that was so 
I'm sorry 
That was so great what you just said.
I haven't been on a date since I was married and that was three years ago....and Claudia...whatever you wanna tell me, whatever you think might scare me, won't...and I will listen...I will be a good listener to you if that's what you want...and you know, you know...I won't judge you.... I can do that sometimes, I know, but I won't...I can...listen to you and you shouldn't be scared of scaring me off or anything that you might think I'll think or on and on and just say it and I'll listen to you....
You don't how fuckin' stupid I am.
It's ok.
You don't know how crazy I am.
It's ok.
I've got troubles.
I'll take everything at face value. I'll be a good listener to you.
Ohhhh I started this, didn't I, didn't I, didn't I, fuck.
Say what you want and you'll see 
Wanna kiss me, Jim?
Yes I do.
....now that I've met you.... Would you object to never seeing me again?
What?
Just say no.
I won't say, no, wait, Claudia 
Let me go, leave me, let me go, it's ok, please.
please, what is it, please 
just let me walk out, ok?
...what the fuck is this...?
It's me. Claudia. It's me.
What do you want? Why are you here?
I'd like to talk to you. Your boyfriend let me in, I just knocked on the door 
He's not my boyfriend.
Wanna call me a slut now, something?
No. No.
What the fuck do you want?
I want to sit. I want to talk to you.
Don't sit down.
...I want to....I want so many things, Claudia. Maybe we can just talk to straighten our things out....there are so many things that I want to tell you 
I don't wanna talk to you.
Please. It doesn't have to be now. Maybe we can make a date to sit down, I didn't mean to walk in on you like this 
Why are you here, why are you doing this? Coming in here  you wanna call me a whore?
I don't want you to think that I'm that way to you  I'm not gonna call you a slut or something 
Yeah, yeah right  what the fuck are doing? WHAT THE FUCK ARE YOU DOING IN MY HOUSE?
Don't yell, honey. Please don't go crazy 
I'M NOT CRAZY. Don't you tell me I'm crazy.
I'm not saying that, I'm sorry 
I'M NOT CRAZY. You're the one. You're the one who's wrong. You're the one 
I have something, so much  I'm sick, Claudia. I'm sick.
Get out of here, get the fuck out of my house 
Now STOP IT and LISTEN to me right now. I AM DYING, I GOT SICK...now I fell down and I'm Not...DON'T 
GET THE FUCK OUT.
I'm dying, Claudia. I have cancer. I have cancer and I'm dying, soon. It's metastasized in my bones and I 
FUCK YOU. FUCK YOU, YOU GET OUT.
I'm not lying to you, I'm not 
FUCK YOU. YOU GET THE FUCK OUT OF HERE.
baby, please, please 
I'M NOT YOUR BABY, I'M NOT YOUR GIRL. I'm not your fuckin' baby 
Please put your clothes on, please 
YOU BURN IN BELL. You burn in hell and you deserve it  YOU GET THE FUCK OUT.
Honey.
GET OUT.
Your mother wants to hear from you 
GET THE FUCK OUT OF HERE.
Hi, hello, great. This is Seduce and Destroy?
It is. Can I have your home phone number with area code?
Well I don't want to order anything, you see. I have a situation, a situation just come up that's really pretty serious and I'm not sure who I should talk to or what I should do but could you maybe put me in touch with the right person if I explain myself?
I'm really only equipped to take orders 
Well can you connect me to someone else?
Well what's the situation?
Well, ok. Lemme see how I explain this without it seeming kinda crazy, but here go: I'm, my name is Phil Parma and I work for a man named Earl Partridge  Mr. Earl Partidge. I'm his nurse. He's a very sick man. He's a dying man and he's sick and he's asked me to help him, to help him find his son  Hello? Are you there, hello?
I'm here, I'm listening.
OK. See: Frank TJ Macky is Earl Partridge's son....
Why don't they have the same last name? They don't have the same last name.
I know  and I can't really explain that, but I have a feeling there's something, some situation between them, like they don't really know each other much or well, something like they don't talk much anymore 
Uhhuh.
Does this sound weird?
Well I'm not sure why you're calling me.
There's no number for Frank in any of Earl's stuff and he's pretty out of it  I mean, like I said, he's dying, y'know. Dying of Cancer.
What kind of Cancer?
Brain and Lung.
My mother had breast cancer.
It's rough. I'm sorry, did she make it?
Oh, she's fine.
Oh that's good.
It was scary though.
It's a helluva disease.
Sure is. So why call me?
Yeah, hey. Chad.
Alright, so I'm gonna transfer you over to Frank's assitant, Janet she's gonna see what she can do 
Thank you, Chad, and good luck to you and your mother 
Thank you. Thank you very much.
Hey, Janet, it's Chad.
What's wrong?
Nothing's wrong, I just got some guy on the phone on my other line, he's says he works for this guy, this guy who's Frank's father 
 no,no,no what is this? who? What's this guy's name?
Hello?
Ok. Janet you have Phil Parma 
Hello, Phil.
You smell like trouble 
I'm fuckin' hammered, Burt.
You ok?
ooohhhhhh no.
It's been the same fuckin' thing for thirty years, Burt 
These adults are tough enough, I think you'll be surprised  the Mexican's a bit of a question mark 
You okay? huh? Jimmy?
And the book says: "We may by through with the past, but the past ain't through with us."
C'mon, Jimmy, snap up, snap up 
In my sleep, Burt.
Call 911. Call 911 right now.
No, no, no. I'm fine. It's small, I wanna keep going 
no, no, c'mon Jimmy we need to call this quits and you need to see a doctor.
I'm telling you right now, I'm fine. I lost my goddamn balance and I couldn't see a moment, but I'm ok.
Call 911, Mary, do it right now.
You fuckin' don't do that. You don't do it, you cocksucker. I'll fuckin' kill you with my barehands. Go. get the fuck fuck  we're going back and we finish the show 
Jimmy you look like you're about to fuckin' die right here 
Shut it. Shut yer fuckin' mouth.
What surery?
Oral surgery. Corrective teeth surgery.
Your teeth are straight.
I need corrective oral surgery. I need the braces.
Don, you got hit by lightning that time in Tahoe, you went on vacation, I don't think braces is a good idea 
I can't believe you're gonna do this to me, the situation I'm in, I don't  Avi: You know what? Being hit by lighting doesn't matter for getting braces, ok? Now Solomon, let me just ask you once: Please. Please. Don't do this.
How are you paying tor the braces, Donnie?
I don't know.
No need for braces, Donnie.
THAT'S NONE OF YOUR BUSSINESS. I HAVE BEEN A GOOD WORKER, A GOOD AND LOYAL WORKER FOR YOU, YOU FUCKING ASSHOLE.
HEY FUCK YOU DON WATCH IT NOW.
Boy, what'd I tell you about using that word?
"Can't" should never be in a man's vocabulary.
Why not?
Cause when you say can't, you ain't a man.
That's right.
Pop, there's no way an Ivy League Team is going all the way.
I don't care about the team. I care about the school.
Didn't we already have this conversation?
Yeah? So you up for a game later?
I don't wanna hurt your feelings.
You don't wanna hurt your back.
Anyway, I gotta get to this meeting. Tell your Mom I'm gonna be late.
You work too hard, Pop.
Let's hope I can say the same about you one day.
What people?
You know, people.
Well, tell them to mind their damn business. You're smart enough to get a degree.
I'm also good enough to go pro.
You know how much higher the play level is in the NBA? Give yourself time to develop, Quincy. Get an education. The NBA ain't going nowhere.
You came out early.
Your mom got pregnant and I had to make choices. You don't have a choice.
Okay...
Besides, the sooner you go pro, the sooner you'll have to deal with the mess I'm dealing with.
What mess?
there's this thing out there. This paternity suit.
What?
Some girl that's been hanging on at every party. now I'm supposed to be her baby's Daddy. Anyway, I told your mom I wanted to be the one who told you.
Tell me what?
I just told you.
I mean, it's not true, is it?
Sorry.
No, you need to hear me say it, I'll say it. It's not true.
So what are you gonna do?
I want this thing to go to court, but my lawyer's telling me to settle.
Why?
A case like this could hang around for months and I'm up for this player relations job with the "Clips." This gets out, false or not, no one'll touch me.
What's Mom think?
We haven't exactly been living the fairy tale life the past few years. Something like this happens, it either brings a family closer or pushes them further apart. We'll just have to see how it plays out. I'm giving her some space, couple days...
What are you doing here?
Your door was unlocked.
Still is, so let yourself out.
We need to talk.
We ain't got nothing to talk about.
I messed up, okay, I know that. But I ain't that kid's father.
Lucky kid.
Look, I ain't saying it was right, but sometimes things happen.
And some things should never fucking happen!
Boy, you're so perfect you can look down on me?
I ain't a damn liar.
Your mom was real quick to show you those pictures, wasn't she? Well, she was nineteen when she got pregnant and don't get me wrong, you're the best thing in my life, but she knew I wasn't ready for no marriage.
So now you're saying my mother trapped you?
I'm saying I handled my responsibilities like a man. But when you're in the NBA, you pull into a city and there's a hundred women waiting at the hotel. And another twenty that made it past security on your floor. And the boldest one is standing right at your door. And after awhile, it just becomes part of the game. I'm sorry I lied to you, I shouldn't have. But I did it cause I love you.
Since we're being honest, guess I should tell you. I'm dropping out of school and going pro.
What?
From your mouth.
I know your mad at me, okay, but I can't let you do this.
Always thought "can't" wasn't in a man's vocabulary.
What do you want?
Came by to check on you.
After five years.
Don't remember that being my fault. Seems like you divorced me same time as your mom.
Look, I'm busy.
I can see that. I know things look pretty bleak right now, but you can't get down on yourself.
I stopped taking your advice a long time ago, or did you forget?
No.
Good.
Quincy. I know you left school early to throw your middle finger up at me.
And now I'm paying for it, right? That what this is about? "I told you so?"
You want me to fuck off?
Yeah.
Fine, I'll fuck off, but not til I say something.
What?
We still have to go?
Yeah.
What is this?
Uh, your earring?
I look like some hoochie to you? I found it on your floor.
What are you doing in my room?
Quincy, I told you about these fatass girls.
We were just studying.
I'm not playing with you, these girls are looking to get you caught. They see you, they see dollar signs.
Okay.
You hearing me?
I've been hearing you.
How was your game?
Twentyseven points, eleven assists and still undefeated.
Still the man.
Yup.
Where's your dad?
Said he'd be home later.
Later when?
I don't know, he had a meeting or something.
You scared me.
Sorry. You okay?
I'm fine.
Guess he talked to you.
Don't sweat it, okay. Sooner or later the truth'll come out.
Whose truth are you talking about?
Mom, we can't let something like this mess up the family.
Just...leave it alone.
This is just about money, you know that.
Quincy, please...
I mean, how many times have you told me yourself to watch out for these ho's?
Guess I should have been telling your father.
So you're gonna take the word of some trick over Pop's? He wouldn't lie.
Zeke.
What? Oh, and, uh, don't say "shit."
We should head over.
Just you and Quincy, baby. I got a meeting.
With who?
Business folks.
You just got back from a four game road trip.
Nona, don't start bitching. I got maybe two years left to play. I'm just trying to put some things together for us.
I had some players to see and hands to shake.
At one in the morning?
I'm not gonna get anywhere punching a clock just so my wife doesn't get an attitude.
I came second to the NBA. I'm not about to come second to this bullshit scouting job.
Yeah.
I'm just saying it'd be nice if you found time for your family. You should see the tramps coming after Quincy. If you don't talk to him...
I have.
You said you'd think about going back to get your degree.
No, you said I should get my degree. I like my "bullshit" job, okay, and it's gonna lead to a spot in the front office. Til then, don't worry, there's just enough savings to keep your ass in Gucci and gold.
Fine, then how many nights home is that?
Keep your voice down.
Not great.
What's that, not great?
The doctor'll be back in a minute.
Nona, please.
He tore his ACL.
Almost didn't recognize you with your hair like that. How you been?
Happy. And he won't want to see you.
Hey, girl.
Hey.
Your hair looks so cute like that.
No.
C'mon, girl, you live next door. Who's been creeping?
There's so many I just can't keep track.
Well, can you give him this for me?
Give it yourself.
I don't wanna look fast. Thanks, girl.
One, up.
Lucky.
Told you I was nice. I'm going to be the first girl in the NBA.
I'ma be in the NBA. You're gonna be my cheerleader.
So...does it hurt?
It's this big hole. You could almost see bone.
For real?
Uh huh.
So how come you could play basketball?
I just can.
I never knew a girl that could play.
My Mom says she doesn't know where I come from 'cause I act different.
Your Dad play?
He works at a bank.
My Dad plays for the "Clippers." He says I'ma be a doctor or a lawyer, but I'ma play for them, too. Same number and everything.
I'm going to be number thirtytwo, like Magic.
He's alright, but my Dad can take him.
What was the most points your Daddy ever got in Junior High?
I don't know. A lot.
One time Magic scored fortyeight points, and they only had six minute quarters and he sat out the whole fourth.
You do act different.
I don't care.
Well, if anybody bothers you, you could just tell me cause I run this street.
I'd just tell my sister, Lena.
She don't know how to box, I bet. My dad showed me how to fight like Ali.
What do I have to do?
I guess, you know, we play ball and we ride to school together. And if you get mad at me, I gotta give you flowers.
I don't like flowers.
Oh.
How bout Twinkies? My mom won't ever buy them.
Kay.
Okay.
I think we gotta kiss now.
For how long?
Five seconds.
I want to ride my own bike.
My Dad always drives my Mom.
So?
So that means I have to ride with you.
I don't have to do what you say.
Man, forget you then, stupid.
You're stupid. And your Daddy plays for the worst team in the NBA.
What?
Last time they won, Dr. J. was a nurse.
Shut up!
Way to hoop.
I know this. What do you want?
A ride home.
Your legs don't look broke.
Look, big head, I'll be at your car.
Guess "please" would be a stretch.
Please.
What's that?
Some note Shawnee Easton told me to give to you.
Bigass titties?
Why she gotta be a ho, just cause she wants to get with me.
She's a ho cause she's sending her coochie through the mail.
And?
And? She's not saying, "I think you're a nice guy and I wanna get to know you better," she's saying, "I wanna bone."
So she's honest.
Yeah, an honest trampass ho. But I guess you'll stick your dick in anything.
Didn't know you cared so much.
I don't.
So who you going to the dance with, Spalding?
Who's Spalding?
See, that's why you ain't getting recruited.
Who said I'm not getting recruited?
Your hotass temper.
I'm not the one who put this scar here.
God, here we go.
When we were eleven years old cause he was about to lose.
That's it, give it your best shot.
Would you watch the damn road?
I mean it, give it your best shot, cause I'm tired of you holding that over my head.
I'm warning you, don't tempt me.
I'm warning you. You don't stall that bad attitude, no one's gonna recruit you.
Please, you jump in some guy's face, talk smack and you get a pat on your ass. But because I'm a female, I get told to calm down and act like a "lady". I'm a ballplayer, okay. A ball player.
With a jackedup attitude.
Didn't know you cared so much.
I don't.
Good.
See you made it.
Yeah.
You don't look halfbad.
You either.
Hey.
Hey.
You having fun?
Yeah.
Yeah, the DJ's kinda whack, though. So who is this clown?
He ain't Spalding.
Guess not.
So you took Shawnee, huh?
Early night for you, isn't it?
I was about to ask you the same thing, going out with a college boy and all.
Mulholland Drive.
Figures.
So what deadend street did you and Shawnee hit?
None of your business.
Well, I'm sure she kept her word and left you satisfied.
That what you think?
Why?
Cause I don't just stick my dick in anything.
Four.
What?
You had four offensive rebounds.
When'd you get this?
It was on my bed when I came in. Can you just...?
You sure?
What was that about?
I know, right?
You finish the reading for Econ?
Yeah.
What'd it say?
Basically broke down how I'm gonna make mad loot in the NBA, me being such a limited commodity and all.
Whatever, big head.
What?
You do see me standing here, right?
I can't be nice to a fan?
Fine, Quincy.
I can't help girls coming up to me.
I said fine.
It's okay, little baby.
Quit.
Forget Tonya Randall.
I'm telling you, Coach wishes she was here instead of me.
Then prove her wrong.
I don't have it easy like you, alright. There's no red carpet laid out for me.
So you're gonna act salty all night?
That was so weak.
Who cares if you're never known as the first girl in the NBA. You'll get more play behind Quincy McCall's woman anyway.
So how about a little oneonone?
What are we playing for?
Clothes.
What?
Give me the ball.
My court, I go first.
Kiss my booty.
Plan to.
Yo, where's the "D"?
Right here.
I won.
I wanted you to.
Don't put your hands in your pockets, hold your head up, always look a man in the eye, and all the time I'm hanging on his every word like he's God or something...
I know he messed up, but that doesn't change what he's been to you.
What has he been to me? I mean, he looked me in my face and lied like it was nothing. Like it was easy. And I'm standing there getting loud on my mom like she's the one with no sense...
She understands.
He even had me wanting to play for the "Clippers." Man, how stupid am I.
You're not stupid.
I know a lot of brothers dog their wives, I just never thought my pops would do some shit like this...
Nothing. Why don't we walk to my dorm?
I'm not up for running into anybody. Let's just kick it here, alright?
I...can't.
Why not?
Coach has us on eleven o'clock curfew. If I'm late, I don't suit up.
Didn't realize you were watching the clock.
I mean, I can stay a few more minutes.
Nah. Don't sweat it.
Quincy...
For real. I should be alone, anyway.
Hey.
What's up?
I've been trying to find you all day.
Here I am.
Sorry about your game.
It happens, right...
he's just playing, Q...
You think for once we could talk about something besides basketball?
Who was that?
Nobody.
Who's nobody?
Look, this party's whack. You ready to go?
You want to go talk?
Not really.
You know what, I'm just gonna crash.
Fine...Maybe I'll come by later.
Nah. I have curfew.
Hey.
Hey, what's up.
You weren't at my game.
Yeah, sorry about that. I had this meeting with this guy.
Yeah, I hit a three at the buzzer.
The "man" again.
Woman...
Oh, Kerry, this is Monica. Monica, Kerry.
What the hell's going on?
We're going to get some food.
Are you out of your mind?
Can we talk?
Talk to your new girlfriend.
I just took the ho to Burger King, alright.
Cheap date.
Least she had time for me.
So you fucked around to prove a point!
I just said I didn't fuck around. But you got your head so far up your ass it took a cheap date for you to notice me.
What, "Qman", did I forget to kiss your ass like everybody else?
You forgot to be there.
That night you wanted to talk about your Dad I had a curfew. What was I supposed to do?
Stay!
If I stayed, I wouldn't be starting!
Least you got your priorities straight.
I never asked you to choose.
Never had to.
I'm a ballplayer. If anyone knows what that means it should be you.
Well, if all you care about is basketball, why you fucking me? Go fuck Dick Vitale.
How do I know next time you're feeling neglected or whatever, you're not going to run around on me? If we're going to be together I have to be able to trust you.
I'm not asking for us to be together.
What?
I'm going through a lot of shit right now, more than you have time for.
How are you going to tell me what I have time for? I mean, whatever I did...we can fix this.
I don't think so.
You don't think so?
Look, I'm entering the draft.
You're what?
I decided to go pro. And who knows where I'll end up, you know?
When did you decide all this?
Few days ago.
So that's it, just forget about us?
Damnitt, Monica. This ain't about us anymore, it's about me.
So...I guess I'll see you around.
Uh huh.
Alright. I heard you were in Spain.
I was. I see your peach fuzz finally grew in.
Just something I'm trying.
No, it looks good. I mean, it's cool.
Thanks.
Shouldn't you be lying down, or...
I'm alright. But you can sit.
I'm fine. My dad said you tore your ACL.
Yup.
What are the doctors saying?
A lot of things. All I know is I'll be back in six months.
I thought a torn ACL was ten to twelve.
Not for Quincy McCall.
I forgot, "Qman."
So, how's proball, Europe?
We won the championship.
Still working on being the first girl in the NBA?
Well, I tried sneaking in after college, but they found breasts during my physical.
Funny. I never did.
Kiss my ass.
Tried calling you a couple times.
Oh yeah?
Wanted to give you props on making First Team AllAmerican. And then when Magic retired, I tried calling you again.
Must have been my cheapass answering machine. It was always messing up.
Figured it was something like that.
Actually, I don't...
What do you mean?
I'm tired of playing overseas. Thinking about giving it a rest for awhile.
A rest?
Yeah. Basketball just, isn't fun anymore. You know?
No.
Yeah, and Quincy, good luck with your knee, and everything.
Thanks.
You visiting?
Kyra's gone for a couple days. Figured I'd keep Mom company.
Who's this guy I always see her around?
Darryl. He's alright, kinda corny.
So...how's the knee?
Getting there.
Strong enough to get you down the aisle?
Yeah. Two weeks. I didn't get to send you an invitation, but if you...
That's okay. I'm probably, you know, busy.
It just isn't.
Because I'm kinda feeling that way, too.
You had a rough couple years, that's all.
That a nice way of saying I rode the bench?
And you tore up your knee. Rehab is tough.
Nah. I haven't dribbled a ball in four and a half months. Maybe I miss some of the attention, but besides that...
You're serious.
Seems like I needed a ball when I was trying to be like my pops...or trying to be better than him. Now, I kinda think I need to try something else.
Like what?
Maybe go back to school.
Wow.
I mean, Kyra hasn't heard the school thing yet. She'll probably say it's the painkillers talking.
It's a trip, you know? When you're a kid, you see the life you want, and it never crosses your mind that it's not gonna turn out that way.
So why'd you give up ball?
Why do you keep asking me that?
Cause I don't get it.
Something was just missing.
What?
It doesn't matter, alright. Just leave it alone.
Find.
What's going on?
We need to talk.
You asked me what was missing.
What?
From basketball.
you woke me up to tell me that?
It's not fun for me anymore because you're missing.
I heard enough.
What I'm trying to say is, I've loved you since I was eleven and the shit won't go away.
We haven't talked since college and now you wait two weeks before my wedding to say something like this?
I know, I probably should have said it two weeks ago.
You haven't changed. You still think the sun rises and sets on your ass. Well, guess what, it doesn't.
Then why are you so upset?
Because you don't pull this on someone who's about to get married.
Better late than never, right?
Wrong.
I'll play you.
What?
One game. Oneonone.
For what?
Your heart.
You're out of your mind.
So you're gonna bitch up?
What's that supposed to be, psychology?
I know why you broke up with me in college. And not that what you did wasn't messed up, but what I did was, too. So if you forgive me, I'll forgive you.
Monica, after that stuff with my dad, I couldn't trust anybody, okay. I mean, I was lost. So you are forgiven. But that was five years ago. I moved on.
What will this prove?
You once said the reason I beat you was because you wanted me to.
So?
So, if I win it's because deep down you know you're about to make the biggest mistake of your life, and deep down your want me to stop you.
And what happens when you lose?
If I lose, I'll buy you a wedding present.
Coach hates me, doesn't she?
She hates all freshmen.
What's up with that?
Hey, don't take it personal. And don't think just cause we play the same position we have to compete with each other. We're teammates, okay?
Thanks, Sidra.
Besides. I've been starting point the last two years. Ain't no way some dumb ass freshman is taking my spot.
That's what you get for trying to show out, freshman.
I was just playing ball.
You were trying to make me look bad.
Didn't have to try very hard.
What's up?
Just wanted to say good game.
But?
No buts. Took a lot of heart to take that charge.
Thanks.
But that was a dumbass pass to Toni. Ten seconds left, you run out the clock.
I know.
Just one word of advice for next season.
What's that?
Never let a freshman take your spot.
Well, what do you know.
What's up, Sidra.
I'm gonna love winning this championship in your house.
How do you say "you're dreaming" in Italian?
Can you take that damn thing off the table.
You mean my championship trophy? My bad.
Yeah, four years ago. They had me staying in this tinyass town with like fifty people. I'm not playing, there was about a thousand goats running around, and it gets dark at four o'clock. Then the whack club I'm on loses three games in a row and I get blamed. So they fire me.
Just like that?
Yup. So I've been playing with this Italian club the last three years.
How's that been?
It's better. Even though the whole first season my teammates didn't pass to me cause they were mad "The American" was making more money. I led the team in rebounds cause it was the only way I could touch the damn ball.
So what are these Spanish guys like?
I wouldn't know.
What? You've been over here seven months and you ain't tapped anything?
Just not my type, I guess.
Shoot, Italian boys love them some black women. They can't get enough of me.
You ever think about going back?
Sometimes. But what's the alternative, not playing? You remember big Toni? She quit last year, now she's working at some bookstore. I mean, look at us. They treat us like we're Hollywood stars over here. We just played in the championship game. It doesn't get much sweeter than this.
Dad, you have to talk to Coach for me.
And what am I supposed to say to the man?
The coach from Tennessee was there and he has me riding the bench.
You lost your head.
I was just showing emotion.
Monica, I think her point is...maybe it's time to start thinking about other things besides basketball.
What?
You only have one game left and you haven't been recruited. Munchkin, I wanted it as bad as you did, but we have to face reality.
The coach from USC is going to be at the championship.
I know. But chances are...
Chances are there's still a chance.
Hey, munchkin.
Dad. What are you doing here?
I was upstairs for a meeting. I've been hearing good things about you.
That tends to happen when you're the boss's daughter.
So how's the job going?
You shoot like a girl.
I'll take that as a compliment.
That too tight?
No.
Mom's going to hate it.
Always on my ass, anyway.
Like you don't give her a hard time.
Just cause I don't kiss her booty like you...
You need to. She's alone in this house all day, taking care of Dad and your ungrateful behind.
No one's forcing her.
Just try and chill a little bit, alright.
So what's going on with the Spring Dance? You have a date yet?
Yeah, brothers are lined up at my locker.
I found you someone.
Found? I'm not some charity case.
I know...
Mom tell you to do this?
No.
Damn, Lena... Who is he?
This brother from my college.
He's in college?
And he's fine, girl.
How'd you get him to say yes?
I told him you looked like me.
Oh, great.
You do.
Yeah, right.
If you were tore up I would not be claiming you. Trust.
I don't know how to walk in heels.
Hey. You just worry about playing your behind off for that recruiter tonight. Let me worry about your date.
You ever been in love?
Too many times.
They ever love you back?
Yeah, once I cut them off. Why?
I'm so sorry. No one would switch flights with me.
It's okay.
Why are you up? Get in bed.
Hello.
Kyra, this is Monica. She, uh...
Monica. You grew up together, right? Quincy's told me about you.
It means a lot that you came by.
Yes, we appreciate that.
Damn, girl.
What?
I don't wanna see that.
Get used to it, babe.
So how long is this trip?
Four days.
Nah.
Why not?
You might be the only one with a job.
Baby, don't talk like that. Your rehab's going well. You'll be back before you know it.
Sometimes I wonder if it's worth it. Busting my ass, for what?
To do what you love.
I don't know sometimes.
You're just scared. I know rehab is hard, and you have to worry about whether you'll be as good as you were but you will be. I believe in you. You just have to get back on the court. Like you'd get back on a horse.
A horse?
Don't make fun of me when I'm being wonderful and supportive. You belong on the court. Just like I belong in the stands, looking cute and cheering you on.
Quincy, word has it you might make the jump the NBA.
Don't go starting rumors, Jim. My son's college bound with or without basketball.
You could make a career by telling me where.
Gotta wait til the press conference.
But you'd love for him to play at USC, like you did.
I'd love for him to get a good education. That's it.
Can I take your coat?
You're cold?
No, I mean I can check it for you.
Oh, sorry.
I'm an English major. You like English?
Sort of.
Careful.
Huh?
That was two words.
Sorry.
I mean, I'm having a good time with you...
My mouth is kinda dry.
Then I'll get you some punch.
That was nice.
Uhhuh.
Your sister told me hands off, but I can't help myself...
Wait...
Shh. It's okay.
I can take it.
This time get your feet set.
What?
You love to pose so much, let's see it again.
Coach...
I want you to stand like that until you're sick of it because I don't ever want to see it again, you hear me? Dora, take her spot.
You could've given up after you threw that ball away. But you kept your head and you showed real heart.
Thanks.
We've got our final games against Oregon and Oregon State and I want to shake things up a bit, so I'm starting you at point again.
I thought Sidra's ankle was okay for next game.
You want the job or not?
What?
It's just...it seems like you're always yelling at me.
You think I'd go hoarse for a player with no potential? When I ignore you, that's when you worry. Go get dressed.
...we moved back here when Quincy was about five, after Zeke was traded. Neighborhood was a little more mixed back then...
Until the Black family down the street became the Black family next door.
Okay?
Well, thanks again. This was really nice of you.
It was the least we could do. And I love to cook.
Oh, me too. I used to cook for my friends' parties and things back in Atlanta.
You're a caterer?
Well, no, but once Nathan gets settled and the girls get a little older, it's definitely something I want to do. Since you love to cook, maybe it's something we can talk about.
You know, girl, long as I've lived next door, I've never seen the inside of this house.
Really? Well, come on, then.
When you're done can you make sure she brushes her teeth?
Are you okay?
I just need to lay down. I've been running around all day.
...and if you want a thicker base, you can cut in a potato or just use a little flour.
But you use potato?
So that means it's alright for you to act like that?
What'd you do?
So you're still breastfeeding?
The doctor said it was okay. Anyway, I'm still trying to lose some of this baby fat.
You might want to put a jacket on him, it's getting cold.
He's fine.
Okay.
She needs to stop running around like a little boy.
She's alright.
How is she alright looking the way she does?
Camille, she'll be fine.
Which one for tomorrow?
The blue.
You sure?
Okay.
Thanks, sweetheart.
Monica, what did you do?
Nothing.
Oh, all that work.
Ah, Mom.
I'm lucky I found it. Someone put your box of dresses under a pile of rags in the garbage.
I hate it.
Fine, you don't like this one, which one would you rather wear?
Pants.
nothing.
I don't know why I keep hoping you'll grow out of this tomboy thing.
I won't. I'm a lesbian.
That's not funny
Well, that's what you think, isn't it? Cause I'd rather wear a jersey than an apron...
Watch your mouth.
Taste this.
I can't eat before a game.
Child, take a bite.
You really should be a caterer or something like you used to say.
Sure. In between all the other things I have to do.
What?
Nothing. So good luck.
What?
Tonight, don't worry about yesterday's game, the recruiters, or anything else. I just want you to enjoy being beautiful. Will you do that?
Monica. What are you doing here?
Didn't know I needed a reason to come home.
Don't be defensive. I'm just surprised to see you.
Dad around?
He's still at the bank.
What?
Whenever you lose, you get this attitude. But it's just a game.
Hi.
Need any help?
I can manage.
Yeah. Can't wait to see him I just saw Quincy.
How is he?
Engaged.
To that stewardess?
Yeah, you met her?
His mother had a cookout a few weeks ago. He could do a lot better if you ask me.
Maybe she is.
So what do I do?
Find out where they're registered and send them a gift.
Whatever.
You didn't want my opinion in the first place, so why even ask?
I asked but why does it always have to be so damn prissy.
Don't curse.
There you go.
What do you want me to tell you, Monica, to go beat that girl up? To go have sex with him? I'm not going to do that. Yes, I believe thinking of other people is important and yes I'd rather bake a pie than shoot a dumb jump shot. If that makes me too "prissy" for you, too bad.
So that's why we can't get along? Because I'd rather shoot a "dumb" jump shot?
You're the one always turning your nose up at me.
No I don't.
Child, please. Ever since you were little you thought you were too good for anything I had to say.
I wasn't Lena. I didn't care about nail polish or lip gloss or sneaking a spray of your perfume.
What was so wrong with wanting to teach you the things I knew could help you?
Because you're pushing me to be something I'm not.
So you're angry with me because you're standing here with your hair combed and wearing perfume?
I'm angry because I want a mother, not Martha Stewart.
Oh, yes. The superstar female athlete whose mother is nothing but a housewife.
That's not it.
Don't tell me you aren't ashamed of that because I know.
I remember when I was eight years old, you spent like four hours cooking up this fancy meal. All you'd let me and Lena do was set the table. And I guess you and Dad got your wires crossed or something because he walks in with a couple of pizzas. And you didn't say anything. You just threw the whole meal into some tupperware and tossed it in the fridge.
I don't remember that.
I do. You never stood up for yourself. Ever. If I was ashamed, it was because of that.
That's ridiculous.
What's ridiculous is not being a caterer so your husband can feel like a man knowing his woman's home cooking and ironing his drawers.
That's all you cared about. I must have played in a thousand games and I can only remember you being to two.
You had your coaches and your father for that stuff. It never mattered one way or the other if I went to your games.
It mattered, Mom.
What are you talking about?
When I said Quincy could do better, I was thinking about you.
Hey! Mr. big shot.
Mike. Oh, the christening. I meant to call...
Yeah, right. I don't know why I bothered inviting you guys. I knew you wouldn't show.
So, Viznick's got a meet with his lawyer in the ayem.
Really? You know, seeing these guys away from the court, the facade slips. You catch things.
Yeah, yeah. I've heard it before. Just be sure you spell my name right. Nine o'clock?
What's this?
So you can see where you're going when you crawl up his asshole.
Seems George isn't making too many friends in lockup.
Yeah, look at that sweet face. You'd never guess he killed nine people. I'm gonna get my smokes. Be right back.
You're too old to smoke. Won't be able to shoot hoops with your grandkid.
What's the matter with you?
He's looking right at me.
He could see me.
I'll quit, maybe you should start.
Thanks for handling this.
Sure thing. Look, I've got enough, between your preliminary statements and all the witness accounts. You can go home. Gimme til morning. Find out who he is. Until then, don't sweat it, huh? Just your random bad cheese trying to hole you.
Thanks again for everything.
Hey, don't thank me. Somebody up there likes you.
What's up?
How're you doin' today?
It's another day. I think I'm alright.
You got the right attitude, anyway, look, we gotta talk.
She came to me with a wild story about demonic possession.
She's got a juvenile record from New Orleans. Parents died when she was 13.
Parents died?
Yeah, murdersuicide.
What happened?
Mother killed the father, then killed herself. Crime of passion.
She told me she killed them.
Not what the records show. Anyway, she was a runaway, arrests for vandalism, petty theft, drugs, the whole bit. Parole records show she graduated from community college, moved into a retreat house, teaches some classes at the seminary school, hasn't been in any trouble since.
We hauled her in earlier but didn't have anything hard to tie her to Townsend. Far as the priest goes, he won't be bothering you. Suffered a complete mental breakdown, during  get this  during an exorcism.
Where is she now?
Had to let her go. I see you thinkin' there, superstar. Don't.
As a part of today's story on the trial of mass murderer George Viznick, we welcome Peter Kelson, author of the current bestseller, VICIOUS INTENT. Thank you for joining us, Peter.
Thanks for having me, Sally.
Peter, you're now writing a book about the Viznick case. You seem to be making a career of studying sensational murderers. I have to ask, how does it make you feel when you sit in courtrooms day after day, face to face with alleged killers?
Well, longterm exposure to things like this tends to give you a sort of clinical understanding of the subject. After awhile, you begin to make friends with it, so to speak.
It's as if you are saying the closer you get to evil, the less evil it becomes.
No, the less mystifying. Good and evil are only illusions. There is no such thing as evil with a capital "E." That suggests some third party bad guy pulling all the strings.
You're referring to the defense's efforts to prove that George Viznick is tormented by "demonic voices?"
There weren't any voices.
Not even from some mental illness, as the prosecution asserts?
As if there's another cause for little voices? No, Sally, Viznick's a manipulator, he's clever, he has what I call malignant narcissism.
What do you mean by that?
Well, we all have a degree of narcissism, Sally, but a malignant narcissist is dangerously selfobsessed.
Are you saying he's legally sane?
Well, George Viznick is in the grayest of gray areas in the sanity spectrum. Viznick is not psychotic. He's simply unable to submit to any higher authority.
Meaning, Viznick's a man who answers to no one. Not even God.
Right. If you believe in God. As a narcissist, Viznick couldn't blame himself for the alleged murders. He created the voices after the fact. In order to avoid the simple truth that there is no outside force that guides George Viznick and that George Viznick needs to pay.
And what about you? What about Peter Kelson? Where is your moral compass?
Would you sign it for me?
Of course.
I plan to. You want a tip?
Lemme guess. The lottery.
Sometimes I can just feel the numbers.
You know what they say. You have the same chance of winning whether you play or not.
You watch. One day, I'll hit the jackpot, get the big house, car, clothes. I'll have more money than God.
Yeah.
It's Detective Smythe.
Good of you to stop by.
We millionaires yet?
Mr. Kelson, here's the stuff you wanted on pathological narcissism.
What about that psychic, what's his name, Szabo?
He can see you Thursday.
I think it's gonna be a waste of time.
The police used him as a witness in this case.
I'll be at Bedford tonight, if you need me.
Nice suit.
I'd appreciate it if you'd put that back.
You are the younger of two...
But she worships you. Your mother's dead but your father's alive.
Nothing you couldn't find out from reading the papers. And you're already wrong on one count.
Viznick will get off and Michael's got a crush on you.
You know what? You can go.
Suit yourself. But does this mean anything to you?
You do know, don't you. That these are also numbers. Greek numbers, 600, 60 and 6  or 666. The sign of the Devil.
Get out of here.
Goodbye.
Good seeing you again.
Whish the circumstances were different.
Hello?
I know who he is.
Maya? What do you mean?
I'll explain everything later. Can you meet me tonight?
And what are you thinking we should do now?
I've filed a report with Father Frank.
A lot of good that'll do.
We need all the help we can get.
I've dealt with these people before, Maya. They're not going to help us.
We'll see Father Frank in the morning. There's nothing to be done until then.
Alright, Maya. We'll do it your way.
It's useless...look at him.
You can't back out on me now. We need to be sure.
Sure of what? Who cares if this guy is devoid of faith or sleeps over a pentacle? Results are what Lareaux would want.
You don't want to face it.
Look, John, I'm facing it.
I'm not waiting until it's too late.
Oh my God!
...as a narcissist, he couldn't blame himself. He created the voices after the fact.
May I help you?
Peter Kelson?
Yes... and you are?
I saw you on television yesterday. You were brilliant.
Thank you. Do you work in the building? You coming from the party?
You said that malignant narcissism was not evil.
Not pure evil. That's correct.
And also that...
Listen, I'm sorry, but I'm running late.
That there is no such thing as evil with a capital "E."
Not the most popular opinion, but yes.
What if I told you I was a malignant narcissist?
A narcissist doesn't admit it. It's the extreme of selfdenial.
And I also believe in God and the Devil. In fact, I know they exist.
Well, by saying that, you're acknowledging the existence of a higher power. Which, to a narcissist, is impossible.
I murdered my parents, Mr. Kelson. And while they deserved it, I still went to confession the following Sunday.
Oooooohkayyyyyy.
In the end, the jury saw it my way.
Well, then it all seems to be working out for you. Listen, Ms...?
Do you remember Henry Birdson? The math professor who won the Salwen Medal, then went home and killed his family?
What's that got to do with you?
Last week the Catholic Church certified him as genuinely possessed. You realize how rarely they make that ruling?
I do.
An exorcism was just held for Birdson. It failed. Disastrously. Which means there's still a demonic spirit present in his body. I was wondering, perhaps you'd like to go meet Henry. He's pretty amazing.
I'll bet.
On television, you seemed so sure of yourself. If you're really that confident, you'd be willing to let someone prove you wrong?
The world would be so much simpler if it were all just about good and evil. Unfortunately I find it much more slippery and elusive place.
Well, I think it's very simple. Here's a tape of Birdson's exorcism. I'll be at the Public Library. Tomorrow at 2... if you want to meet him.
So...what did you think of the tape.
I think you gave me the wrong one.
What do you mean?
It was blank. Nothing on it. You gave me the wrong one.
You're sure? There was nothing?
I cranked it all the way up. Nothing but hum.
So what'd I miss?
You're right. I must've made a mistake.
Where do you get off pretending to be my secretary?
I had to.
And this is evil? The guy had an aneurysm and now he's in a coma.
That's their explanation. You might not believe me...
Well, why should I? Alright, what's your name, where do you live, when did you kill your parents?
We need to talk.
Peter, please...
Last night a guy named John Townsend tried to shoot me and now I find out you knew him. What the fuck is going on?
Please, the children.
Why did he try to kill me?
Townsend believed, just as God became man in Christ. So Satan will assume human form. I believe it too.
And the point is?
At the exorcism, Birdson boasted that Satan is about to take over the body of a man. You are that man, Peter.
What?!?!
It's true. Birdson knew your name, he was writing it in numerical code. It wasn't easy but I figured it out. It spelled your name.
Why didn't Birdson just say so?
If you're possessed, you can't reveal anything Satan wants hidden. Unless you trick him.
Trick him.
The good outwitting the bad. It's like Birdson had a split personality.
You should think about getting professional help.
You're already contaminated. It's why you couldn't hear the tape. There's probably a pentacle near your bed. To sanctify you.
I'm not going to be drawn into this.
I know this sounds crazy. I understand. Check your parents' blood types. Are you sure your parents are your birth parents?
My parents are dead. Don't even think of bringing them into this.
You're about to become the antiChrist who is born unholy and becomes the door to eternal suffering in this world.
If you or any of your lunatic friends ever come near me again...
I don't understand what's going on.
There's no reason why you should. This has been planned from your birth. You fit all the criteria that we know of. Never baptized, born of incest, devoid of faith...
But I was baptized. And I certainly wasn't born of incest.
You were not baptized. At least I don't believe it was Christian. Your baptism was performed by your uncle, James McKenzie.
Yes, I know.
The only baptism he ever performed in seven years as pastor at Bedford.
So what?
Seven years. One baptism? He's your mother's only brother
Yes.
Do you know your parents' blood types?
I looked at the coroner's report. My father's O positive and my mother...A negative.
Peter, your bloodtype is AB negative. There's no way your birth father can be O positive. You father is not who you think he is.
So...then the coroner's report is probably wrong. I mean...this is ridiculous. There's been a mistake. I don't believe any of this.
Then why are you here?
Peter, I believe your baptism was perverted. Look at your certificate. Your mother was the only witness to it. Your bloodtype doesn't match who you thought your father was. Peter...I'm sorry.
And if what you're saying is true, what would happen to me?
I don't know. I do know that people who are possessed have to accept evil in some way. I don't know if it works the same way in this instance. I don't even know when it's going to happen.
When Townsend tried to kill me, he said something strange like... "The time of transformation is near..."
Townsend, he had some of Father's books.
What are you looking for exactly?
The books themselves or maybe some pages he ripped out.
We needed to know all we could.
I'm going to look around.
Nothing yet.
I'll go outside and take a look in the garage.
Get up!!
What's the...OH SHIT!
Peter, let go of the chair!
What?
You okay?
When's your birthday?
What?
Hang on, get it up, go on, higher.
Your 33rd birthday. The transformation will be a perversion of Christ's rising from the dead. Townsend discovered it in one of Lareaux's books.
It'll happen at the exact time of your birth.
That can't be right. My birthday's tomorrow.
He couldn't stop us and that's how he was punished. Peter, what time were you born?
I don't know. Probably have a copy of my birth certificate...my apartment.
There's nothing else here.
What's the bible for?
Comfort.
Are you alright?
Sometimes, when I feel weak, I have these...visions.
What do you mean?
I see things. My worst fears. You need to know something, Peter. I was possessed once. Like Birdson. It took Father Lareaux six days to pull me out of it.
I'm scared I'm slipping back.
We're going to do this.
You have to say that.
That's true.
Why did you lie to me about your parents' deaths?
I was desperate. I knew you wrote about murders. I needed a way in.
Close call. For the first time in a long time, it's really hitting me. Life's tenuous.
I know it is. Right after my parents died, I went to the beach... I was in the water. Everything was calm. And then one of those really big waves hit me. Hard. Pulled me straight to the bottom. I struggled and finally ran out of air. If it hadn't been for my sister who pulled me out, I would've drowned. Legally dead for a couple of minutes is what they told me.
No oxygen to the brain.
Maybe that's my problem.
Why didn't you just go along with Townsend. Get rid of me. I would've...
Until it happens, you're still a human being.
What about after?
Only your body will remain. I believe your soul will be at peace. If we kill you, Satan can't stay.
Plenty of time.
What are these?
I don't know. Extra apartment keys. What's it matter?
Maybe I should check Lareaux's book. It's in the car. Be right back. Don't go anywhere.
Sure.
What can I do?
You have to be experienced to do this. Just wait outside. Otherwise, you risk killing him.
I'll be all right. Peter, at the very end, I think Father was back. I saw it in his eyes.
So, what does it mean. The ark sank and the sun set?
He's been repeating that since Birdson's exorcism. I looked in every passage in the Bible and there's nothing about an ark or a sunset that tells us anything.
What did he say to you in French?
That's his, I don't know, his 'grounding' phrase for me, "together, no matter what."
Terrific.
He was trying to tell me something.
And his message was "Together, no matter what?"
Book five, Deuteronomy, chapter seven, verse five. "But this shall you deal with them. You shall break down their altars and burn their graven images with fire."
And what's that mean?
How much time do we have?
Not a lot.
Oh, Peter.
It's me. Put the gun down. Maya...
Hi, I'd like to make an appointment for Peter Kelson.
Kelson, hold on a second...
I took one of those home pregnancy tests, but I don't want to tell him. I'm RH negative. My blood type is negative... If he's RH positive, I'll have to terminate.
How many weeks are you honey/
Thirteen. The last time, can you believe it? This is how he says "Goodbye?"
You need his bloodtype. Like right away.
Well I know he's come here before.
What's his name?
Peter...Peter Kelson.
You just call?
I didn't know what else to do...
Two negatives always make a positive.
Oh, thank you, thank you so much!
Why are you doing this to me?
I know, Maya, but you'll understand when you see this man. I really need your strength.
 you wouldn't last five minutes.
Just open the door, please.
...the ark sank, the sun set, the ark sank again.
Father, I'm right here.
...the ark sank, the sun set, the ark sank again...
Father! Thank God you're better! I really need your help. We've only got a few more hours.
Don't worry...about the transformation, Maya.
What do you mean "don't worry?"
Well, in my prayers, I realized we've been fooling ourselves and probably... blown this all out of proportion. God would never allow anything like that to happen.
So...we won?
Yes. We won, that's right.
We won because Christ...triumphed over Satan?
Um hm. That's right, Maya.
So, if Christ won, that means, what does that mean, Father? That Satan...
Would you like to rest, Miette? You must be exhausted.
So I guess Satan lost. Satan is the weak one.
Miette, come here and relax.
Father, please don't die.
...art sank, sun set, ark sank again...
How're you doing? Looking lovely as always.
You ready?
Between your book sales and this TV thing, there's going to be no living with you. And let me guess, you boiled God down to a conceit.
You know how I feel. The world is random. The only certainty I believe in is death.
Given all that's happened, I understand. The world is random, but then there's faith. Where are you in death without it?
What is it?
Something he said, just before...
He spoke to you?
Yeah. It didn't make any sense.
Listen to me, Peter. You can't let the ravings of a madman disturb you, okay?
You're right, but it's funny. All my life I thought I was simply a man who didn't believe in any of it.
No matter, my son, he believes in you.
But it's true. I have no faith. It's strange. When that gun was pointed at my face tonight, I was surprised, but never frightened. It was as if I knew nothing could possibly happen to me and...in that one moment I didn't care about anything. Not eve my own life.
Peter. Your life must matter to you because it matters to all of us who love you.
You know, I respect that you have such faith, James. I don't understand it, but I want you to know that despite our differences, I admire you and I always will.
You fucking bastard.
Don't you get it? They had their 2,000 years. Now it's our turn.
So all that bullshit about God and faith.
It was perfect. The harder I pushed, the more you pulled away.
You lied to me my whole life. Everything you said, everything you did.
Everything I did, I did for you. I love you, Peter. Think of it. I'm giving you a gift, absolute power and knowledge.
You raised me, like a son.
You are my son. Don't you see the opportunity that lies before you?
You killed my parents.
I had to. There was no other way. Their deaths were part of the greatest legacy I could have given you.
I don't mean to belittle you, but we've been through this before. Satan is not what you think he is. Satan is not some creature.
You weren't there. Give me time to get some proof.
Please, Maya. I'm trying to get us into the next century and you insist on this medieval nonsense.
If you really believe in God, why is it so inconceivable that his enemy is just as real?
Maya, for the last time, I will not tolerate these obsessions.
The doctor's concerned he may never come out of this dementia.
He will. He has great faith.
But bad judgement. And now you see how dangerous the consequences can be.
Is he going to be okay?
I hope so.
I've had it. Townsend's dead. The police are calling and now I see you having a scene in front of the children. I'm sorry, Maya, you've been with us for many years, but effective immediately, I'm rescinding your right to live at the church.
Father, I have nowhere else to stay.
You have a sister in New Orleans.
You'll do it?
I don't have the experience. Father Thomas should officiate.
Dr. Allen, could you please tell Mr. Kelson what you heard as you tried to enter Mr. Birdson's room?
I certainly hope you're not lending any credence to this.
What did you hear?
The patient was in great distress. Naturally he was...yelling.
And was he in distress when you opened the door? Or was he sitting here, relaxed, at this table?
There is a medical explanation for everything that happened.
You heard voices, you know you did.
Your court order, Dr. Allen.
You know I'm not comfortable with this.
But your patient is legally entitled to it.
This patient has been plagued with temporal lobe seizures.
It's the patient's request, doctor.
I'm aware of that, but I don't think he's in any condition to make requests. I'm trying to appeal to your more...logical self, Father. I'm concerned about harm to my patient.
Father Jeremy and Deacon John Townsend of St. Ursula's, and our associate, Maya Larkin. Secular assistants are permitted if regarded as qualified. Maya is eminently qualified.
I think I should join you.
Mr. Kelson, what a pleasure to meet you. I have to say your instincts about the criminally insane are impeccable. I am a fan.
Quite a compliment coming from you, doctor.
When your secretary called, she made no mention of her coming, too.
My secretary?
You're aware that this woman was party to the socalled exorcism.
No, I wasn't, actually.
You should know I never felt Mr. Birdson needed anything but professional psychiatric care. And then, minutes after they left, he suffered a stroke. He's comatose. No brain wave activity at all.
So you don't believe his condition is the result of anything supernatural?
Of course not. They put him through severe mental stress. Causing this aneurysm.
George, come in. What the hell happened to you?
It's nothing.
Sure it is. If the guards did this, we can file charges.
Not the guards. Some of the prisoners are easily disturbed.
You have to tell me who did it.
I can take care of myself.
I'm gonna go make a stink. Sit tight. I'll make sure you get a change of clothes.
Yes.
And how would you describe him?
Quiet. Real quiet...
And on the day of the murders, his state of mind?
Seemed...on edge.
On the day of the murders what did the defendant request?
He asked to go home early. He said he was bothered by all the people who kept telling him what to do.
Tell the jury how many people work in that office with you and Mr. Viznick.
Just me.
What a...jerk!
Peter, are you okay?
Nonsense, it's all of our home. So how's work treating you?
Frustrating. Form over content. Everything's so retro.
Well, if Peter here would hop off his laurels long enough to marry you...
...you wearing a watch, Father?
Yes. It's exactly...
You know, I made a reservation at Marco's for Peter's birthday dinner, but maybe you should cater it.
What time did you make it for?
Eight. That okay?
I missed you.
Do you think they have a room here?
How'd your interview go? I'm sure you charmed the hell out of Sally.
She's a talk show host. They can't be charmed. By definition.
It's great of you to let William and Susan stay at the house until he gets on his feet.
It's Susan's cooking, Claire. That's why Uncle James lets them stay.
You never said anything to me...
It's probably trivial.
Shi... Sorry, honey. I was having the weirdest dream.
Bad?
Weird. The book again. Sex spelled backwards...
I must really be slacking off. Hungry?
Uh...sure...I...what?
Sushi.
I can't believe it's already starting to get dark so early.
Hmmm.
You know, there was a guy on the radio today trying to explain why we're losing daylight. Quarks and dark matter, things like that. Even how daylight savings has caught up with us over the last hundred years and our universal watch is just fast, you know?
Peter, where are you?
Sorry. It's just...a strange woman waltzes into my office today. Tells me she murdered her parents and can prove Satan exists.
Did she waltz in or fly on little bat wings?
Says she can get me in to see this killer.
Now that you're on TV, you're a magnet for all the wackos out there.
Oh, Peter, you're going to pursue this.
No. Of course not. Mmmm. Anago. My favorite.
Hey, what are you doing here in the middle of the day?
Forgot my car keys. What are you doing on the fourth floor?
I spaced out.
Well, it's a nice surprise. Should I hit the "stop" button?
What? That's horrible!
What happened?
Yeah, I appreciate it. Thanks, Josef.
When did they find her?
I'm still shaking.
I can't believe Will killed him.
Thank God he did.
I'm gonna have to get a restraining order. What a nightmare.
I don't know. In a way, I'm glad it all happened.
You're glad somebody tried to kill me?
No, of course not, but I think now that this has happened, a lot of things can start to come out...
Yeah, like...
Like you need to admit that losing your parents when you were twelve was traumatic.
It's with me all the time, Claire, I just don't like to talk about it.
Well, it shattered your faith in everything.
I'm just temporarily off my game.
You need to believe in something besides yourself.
I believe in you.
There you are! My God, darling, I've been so worried. Are you alright?
Claire...
This is the person...you were talking about?
What're these?
I don't know. What are they?
I found them in your file box.
Must be a spare set.
I thought the spare set was in the kitchen drawer.
Honey, you're exhausted. Do you want to lie down for a little while?
I found the pentacle.
She's been stalking you, Peter.
So you're going to kill her? Put the gun down Claire.
Listen to me, I love you, Peter, I'm trying to protect you!
You really had me going, Claire. I was finally ready to propose to you.
We're still going to be together.
John! What are you doing here?
I'm just here shooting this band, what about you?
Promoting that action movie I did...
...doing like twenty million interviews a day... It's soo good to see you. How long are you here for?
We're here for the week. I'm shooting in Osaka for a few days.
It's amazing there!
Have you met Charlotte? My wife.
No! Hi! So great to meet you!
Uh..thanks.
Sorry if I have the worst B.O., I've been sweating in this little room with T.V. lights for hours...
Oh no...
...Well, I have the worst headache, I have to go find some aspirin. But, call me, let's have a drink, I'm under Evelyn Waugh.
Lauren?
Charlotte?! How's Tokyo?
It's cool... but,I don't know... I went to a shrine today and all these little monk's were chanting... and, I didn't feel anything... I even tried ikebana, ... and John's using hair products... I don't know who I.
Oh, wait, can you hold on one sec?
Sure.
Oh, it's nothing... I better go, I'll talk to you later.
Ok, have fun there, you're so lucky you don't have any kids yet and you can go off to Japan... call me when you get back.
Ok, bye.
Evelyn Waugh?
What?
Evelyn Waugh was a man.
Its just a pseudonym, it doesn't matter.
Why do you have to defend her?
I'm not, but do you have to point out how stupid everyone is.
No, I thought it was funny. Forget it.
How'd it go today?
Good...I'm tired.
I gotta go meet Kelly for a drink downstairs. She wants to talk about some photo thing.
Ok. Maybe I'll walk down with you.
You wanna come?
Sure.
Ok.
No, what are you talking about.
I went to a temple today and I didn't feel anything.
That's ok.
I don't know what to do.
That's ok, you'll figure it out.
You smell weird.
What?
Like popcorn?
I got some hair stuff.
Hair stuff?
I gotta go to work.
See you later.
Bye.
Yeah.
Yeah, I think you're probably right... because when you try to...
Do you think it's done?
I don't know.
Will you please stop smoking?
But I like to... and I don't smoke that much.
Its bad for you.
Ok, I will... later.
A Soul's Search: Finding Your True Character and calling? Is this yours?
Oh... that's nothing, someone gave it to me.
You don't have to be embarrassed.
I'm not. It's just corny, but I'm not into it.
It's ok if you are.
Oh, the record company sent these...
Mmm, I love Cristal, let's have some.
I gotta go... and I don't really like champagne.
Are you sure you want to stay?
Are you sure you have to go?
Yeah, I know you have to work the whole time, I'll probably have more fun here. I'll call Charlie and those guys.
Ok, definitely call them, I'll be back Friday. I love you.
I miss you.
It'll just be a few days.
Hello?
Mr. Harris, we have fax for you!
Ok.
Do you want I send it to your room?
Great.
Thank you, Mr. Harris.
How do you say "hospital" in Japanese?
Excuse me?
Hospital?
One moment, please.
Hello? Yes?
Hello, can I have room 5601.
One moment.
Lydia?
Hello, darling.
Lydia, I went to this great house tonight, this guy designed and built, you would have loved it.
Oh, yeah? I wish I had seen it.
He was this fashion guy, and there were all these Japanese fashion people it's a whole other world, and I was talking to these Japanese surfers... He was playing all this great music I have to find out what it was...
That sounds great can you hold on... What Zoe?
Yeah, its really different here.
Well, that's good, I have to get the kids off for school. Can I call you in a little while?
It's four in the morning... I'm going to go to sleep.
Ok, well... I love you.
I love you, too, goodnight, or good morning .
Goodnight.
Hello?
Bob?
Hi, Lydia.
Is this a bad time?
Uh, no.
It's really hard to reach you... Did you get the carpet samples? I like the burgundy.
Ok, whatever you think... I'm lost.
It's just carpet.
That's not what I'm talking about.
What are you talking about?
I don't know.
Is there anything I can do?
I don't know... I want to be more healthy. I want to eat better.
What?
You know, eat healthier.
Alright?
Not all that pasta.
Fine.
Like Japanese food.
Why don't you just stay there, and you can have it everyday.
Oh, come on.
I have to go, Adam's tormenting Zoe, I'll talk to you later. Are you going to be Ok?
Yeah, I'll be fine. Bye.
Hello?
Hello, Bob, it's me.
Hello?
It's Lydia, your wife.
I couldn't hear you. How are you?
Fine. Is it going ok?
It's ok.
Do you want to
What?
Do you want to talk to Zoe?
Yeah.
Zoe, come say hello to your father...
I guess she's busy.
That's ok.
When are you coming home?
Tomorrow.
Her ballet recital is Saturday, don't forget.
Ok.
Ok, well, travel safely. See you soon.
Bye.
Mr. Harris?
Yes?
Mr. Kazuzo sent me.
Oh?
Can I enter?
Mr. Harris?
Yes?
Do you like massage?
I don't think so.
Mr. Kazuzo send Premium Fantasy.
My stockings.
Yes?
Take them.
What are you doing here?
My wife needs space, I don't know my kids ' birthdays. Everyone wants Tiger Woods, but they could get me, so I'm here doing a whiskey commercial.
What about you? Why are you here?
My husband's here for workhe's a photographer and I just came along...I'm not really doing anything right now, and we have some friends who live here.
How long have you been married?
Two years.
Try twentyfive.
You're probably just having a mid life crisis. Did you buy a Porche?
I'm thinking about it.
25 years... that's a long time... Are you still in love with your wife?
Yes... I don't know, I don't know her anymore. I don't know if you can be in love with one person the whole time. I was... actually I was in love with her sister first, when I was twentyone. And one day her sister said to me she wanted to move to Paris, so I said okay, and she said no, she wanted to move to Paris with Francois, and she's still married to him. And I moved in with Lydia... but I always really liked Lydia.
Oh.
What do you do?
I'm not sure, yet... I graduated last spring.
What did you study?
Philosophy.
Oh, what do you do with that?
I don't know, but I can think about it, a lot.
It takes a while to figure it out. I'm sure you will, though.
Thanks. I'm sure your midlife crisis will work out,too.
Thanks.
Hi again, how's it going?
Who do I have to fuck to get off this planet?
Oh, hi.
Hi. Did you have a nice swim?
Yeah. Did you get some sleep?
No, how about you?
Not really. How long are you here for?
I'm here for the week.
Oh, good. Do you want to go to a party tonight with me and some friends who live here?
Ok.
See you later.
You really are having a midlife crisis.
I know, it's stupid.
A Soul's Search: Finding Your True Calling  are you reading this?
No.
Charlie, this is Bob. Bob Charlie Brown.
Hi, Charlie.
What do you feel like singing, Bob?
No way.
I could cut the ones that are left for you.
Ok.
I don't want to go home.
I know. I don't either.
Hello?
It's Charlotte.
Charlotte, who?
Thanks for getting me back in one piece.
Of course.
Do you want to have some breakfast?
Yeah, I'm going to take a shower and I'll meet you downstairs.
OK, see you downstairs.
Hey look, it's Sausalito.
I see them every morning.
Hans was very attentive to you.
I think he kind of liked me...Is that so hard to imagine?
No, its easy.
How'd a Japanese guy get a name like Hans?
I don't know.
Do you remember when we met at the bar? ...You were wearing a tuxedo.
But the first time I saw you was in the elevator.
Really?
Yeah, you don't remember?
Did I scowl at you?
No, you smiled.
I don't remember.
I know, I kind of blend in here.
Why do they switch the r's and l's here?
I don't know. My fax said "have a good fright".
Let's never come here again, because it would never be as much fun.
Ok, whatever you want.
Did you see Hiromix last night dancing with Bambi?
No, I was looking at you.
Oh. Well... they were dancing on the couch with that weird English guy who kept talking about hanging out with the Sex Pistols on Kings Road...
I got a fax today from your friend Hiromix.
Oh, for her show?
No, for a candlelight dinner, yes, for her show.
Oh.
You're possessive.
I know.
I'm stuck. Does it get easier.
No, yes, it does...
Yeah? But look at you.
Thanks. It does, the more you know who you are... you don't care about things the same way...
I just don't know what I'm supposed to be. I thought maybe I wanted to be a writer... but I hate what I write, and I tried taking pictures, but John's so good at that, and mine are so mediocre... and every girl goes through a photography phase, like horses, you know dumb pictures of your feet...
You'll figure it out. I'm not worried about you. Keep writing.
But, I'm mean.
That's ok.
And marriage, does that get easier?
It's hard. We started going to a marriage counselor.
Did that help? Did you learn anything?
We established that we have no communication.
Oh.
We used to have fun, she used to like to go to places with me for my movies and we would laugh at all the weirdos, but now she's tired of it all. She never wants to leave the kids, she doesn't need me, and they don't need me, I feel like I'm in the way. It gets complicated when you have kids... that changes everything.
That's too scary.
When they're born its like Vietnam. It's terrifying.
No one ever tells you that...
But, it's great being with them, after they can talk, and can do things with you.
That's nice. My parents were always traveling, they weren't around so much.
Where'd you grow up?
In D.C., my dad was the Ambassador to France in the eighties, so we went to school in Paris for a few years... but we mostly lived in D.C., and they were never around... and then I moved to Los Angeles when John and I got married... it's so different there.
I know.
John thinks I'm so snotty.
You are.
I know, but that's what you like about me.
Why do you have to be with your opposite, why cant similar people be together?
Because that would be too easy.
You made it.
They really have to work on that street name thing.
It's for my daughter.
How old is she?
Four.
Oh, she'll love it.
Nice one.
Fuck off.
What happened to your toe?
I don't know, I think maybe I broke it? I knocked into something the other day...
It's bad isn't it?
We should get you to the doctor.
You think so?
Yeah, look at that thing.
Where's your husband?
Working.
Do you ever see him?
Yeah.
Do you know where we are?
No.
I'm going to Daikanyama, do you want to come walk around?
Yes, but no, I can't right now.
Oh, I guess you're busy, huh.
I don't want to be.
You can't get sushi anywhere in Japan after 2 o'clock. Did you know that?
No, we'll find something around here.
Well, I guess she's more around your age... You guys could talk about things in common, like growing up in the fifties.
You're a brat, wasn't there anyone else around to lavish you with attention?
What do you want to drink?
A coke.
So, where'd you go today.
Around.
I'm sorry.
That lunch was the worst, huh.
When are you leaving?
Tomorrow.
I'm going to miss you.
That's what you said the other night.
Well, I mean it more now.
I don't want to go back tomorrow.
I know. But, it doesn't last, you have to go back sometime.
Why can't it last?
I don't know, it just doesn't, reality changes things....we can't stay here forever, unless maybe we started a Jazz band.
Charlotte?
Hi, Bob.
I'm just leaving.... do you have my jacket?
Uh, yeah... I'll bring it down.
That'd be great.
Just saying goodbye to everyone before you leave?
Yes, no.
You're leaving right now?
Yes.
Well... have a good flight.
Thanks.
Ok, bye.
Why are you crying?
I'll miss you.
Can you get me on a flight Thursday night?
We're looking into it Bob, but they really want you to stay to do that talk show Friday, apparently it's a really big deal, he's the Johnny Carson of Japan.
Yeah, they told me.
These people are paying you a lot, do you think you could consider it?
Just get me out of here as soon as you can.
Ok, you're scheduled to leave Saturday, but we'll hold a seat Thursday in case, but first class is full, you're waitlisted for an upgrade... there might be a seat on Lufthansa...
Oh, great. I'll talk to you later, bye.
Hello?
Bob, it's me.
Oh, hi, Elaine.
So, we got you on an earlier flight, but I really think you should think about staying for that talk show.
Ok.
You'll do it?
Yeah, I'll stay.
I've got so much power to give you, Swann. All you have to do is...beg.
Fuck you.
You don't think I've got it to give?
No!
Don't touch me. He's got... got into my head.
You want to be like that, Swann? Mud and shit?
Swann? What are you doing?
Binding you.
And?
I should have been honest with you, right from the start. I wasn't born to show people the error of their ways. I was born to murder the world.
You could still help me do that.
Why would I want to?
Because you've got nothing else to live for.
Not true.
The woman has a new love in her life. Your friends are dead. Nobody's left to save you, but me
You know I'll kill you when we're done. I have to.
Yes.
But until then... it's you and me... the way it always was.
Yes.
Wait... you still feel something for that bitch?
No!
Liar!
Have we met before?
No.
Only I forget. They give me pills, you know, to keep me... even... and... I forget things,
Well, you didn't forget me. I just came because I wanted to know if you knew a man called Butterfield.
Maybe... I... don't...
What about Philip Swann?
I knew Swann. He's a fucking liar.
Why's that?
He said he knew how to protect us. But he didn't know anything. He made us think it was over and done with.
What is?
I don't want to think about it. If I think about it he'll hear me. He'll find me.
Swann?
He's not! He's not!
Who's not?
Nix! Nix!
Is he the Puritan?
Yes! Yes!
And he's dead?
No. He's coming back. He's digging his way out!
The case is closed. Harry. Tapert's given us a full confession. Get your ass back to Mew York.
No. I'm taking a couple of weeks' vacation.
You never took a fucking vacation in your life, Harry. What's going on?
I got to go. I'm late.
Call me tomorrow.
There's other guys as good as me, Loomis.
Yeah. But not as cheap. Call me.
A couple of weeks.
One question.
What?
Who is she?
A lot of people are going to be really pissed off when they discover you're still alive.
They'll never find out.
Look, Ma, no wires.
You shouldn't have followed me, D'Amour.
How the fuck do you do that?
Now I'm going to have to kill you.
I don't think so. You need me alive.
Why? So you can fuck my wife?
You know, it's such a fucking waste. You can do shit most of us can only dream about, and you go around pretending it's some trick.
Illusionists get. Las Vegas contracts, D'Amour. Magicians get burned.
Or murdered, like Nix.
He deserved it.
Maybe he doesn't see it that way. Maybe he's digging his way out of the hole you put him right now. That's what you're hiding away from, isn't it?
I did it for Dorothea.
Oh yeah?
Now that I'm dead, the spotlight's off her.
So Nix won't come looking for her?
It's me betrayed him.
And she shot him I I think that'd piss me off if I were Nix.
I don't know what else to do.
Help me.
Oh Jeez.
Will that do? No?
You think I'm an asshole.
Didn't know you read minds.
I can do a lot of shit, D'Amour. But you know that. So I like playing games with people. Gives them something to wonder about...
Is that all?
I distract them from their banality for a few minutes. It's like a public service. It doesn't mean much in the end. They're all going to die.
And you're not?
Oh, I was going to discover the secret of the universe. That's why I liked Nix. He promised me all these explanations.
And he didn't have them?
He had something. He showed me how to bend the rules. A little levitation. A few fireworks.
Is that all?
No. At the end... when we had him cornered, he got into my head. He showed me what we really look like, when the veneer's gone. Jelly. Shit...
And you believed him?
I saw it with my own fucking eyes! See, that's his best trick. No illusions. Just the truth. Are you ready for that?
Did she know where Nix was buried?
No.
Who else did? Did Valentin?
Yes.
Jesus!
They got here before us.
Looks that way.
... no...
He's better off this way.
Nobody's better off this wav!
You don't get it, do you? We're shit. D'Amour.
That's where we're all going.
In my time, and nobody else's.
Jesus... what the hell's going on in there?
At a guess... they just resurrected him.
Fuck.
This is where we killed him.
You didn't try hard enough.
I can't... I can't go any further...
He did something with the ground.
Yes?
Can you do it?
I don't know.
Try.
Where'd you learn that?
What?
That.
At birth. I don't know you 
Harry D'Amour.
I know all the kids coming up. Got to stay ahead of the game. But I don't know you.
I'm in from New York. I came to see Swann.
What a tragedy. It was just a matter of time, of course, but it's not good for the business.
Was he taking a lot of risks?
You don't know the half of it. I'm Walter Wilder, by the way.
Not the Walter Wilder?
You know Vinovich?
Sure. Vivovich.
He knew Swann way back. He says there were a lot of drugs, a lot of crazy shit.
I'd love to... you know... hang with some of you guys.
People are pretty cagey. Who do you know?
For what?
For an introduction.
Well... nobody.
I only wear ties for funerals.
You don't get in without one. It's like a gentlemen's club for illusionists. Except most of us aren't gentlemen.
Are they all in the business?
It's not a business. Harry. It's a vocation.
That's what they call the Repository. Every magic secret known to man's locked up in that room.
Have you been in?
No. There's only three keys. Vinovich has got one, of course. He's a little crazy, by the way. And he's a mean drunk. Otherwise, he's a real charmer.
You need an ambulance.
Too late. Why are you here? Did you cone... up here for a reading?
My God.
What?
You've taken some strange journeys in your life.
Yeah. You could say that.
You're drawn to the dark side, over and over. And it's drawn to you. You don't like that.
Not much.
You can't change it. You have to walk... ...walk the line between Heaven and Hell. It's your destiny. Accept it.
Hold on.
I'm not afraid to die. There's something terrible... coming home...
The Puritan?
Yes...
Who is he?
Jennifer's only ever had one visitor.
A Mister Quaid?
Right. And he's dead, isn't he? I saw it on the news. Jennifer doesn't know. And frankly, this isn't the best tine for her to be told.
I won't say anything.
Jennifer's been with us four years. She was coming on nicely. But just the last month or so, she's worse than ever.
What's her problem?
She has no real grip on reality.
Does anybody?
Oh yes. We have to agree what's real and what's not. That's what holds us together.
And what does Jennifer think's real?
Shit.
Mr. D'Amour?
Go away.
It's one in the afternoon.
What are you, my mother?
I need to speak to you, Mr. D'Amour. About last night.
Whatever I said, I didn't mean it, okay? I get a few drinks inside me 
We've never met.
Then what do you want?
I'm here to offer you a job.
I'm going back to New York in Shit! I'm outta here.
Have you got a job that'll pay you five thousand a day?
Whose is the car?
Mine.
Nah. You're driving it too carefully.
Maybe I just bought it.
Somebody's been smoking in here for months.
Havanas. You're not the smoker. So who is?
You could almost pass for a detective, D'Amour. I work for the best illusionist in the world.
Philip Swann?
You know of him?
I saw him in Vegas once.
Are you a gambling man?
When I can afford to lose. Swann's quite a magician.
Never call him that. He's strictly an illusionist.
What's the difference?
Illusions are trickery. Magicians do it for real.
Any movie stars buried here?
Probably.
It's not a bad place. Warm. Great view.
I don't think the dead much care.
Are you sure?
Are you a believer, then?
Who is she?
Swann's wife.
What the fuck are you doing here?
Looking for you. I tried the hotel.
Why'd you come here?
You're a detective, with no clues. Where else are you going to look? I'm going to keep this brief. Here's thirty thousand dollars.
What for?
A ticket home,
You didn't hire me. She did. If she wants me off the job, I want to hear it from her.
She doesn't want to see you. She's had enough pain. Enough churning over the past. She wants it all left alone.
Left alone? Somebody's been murdered.
Yes. It's regrettable
Fuck regrettable! I want to know why.
What for? You need to stay busy?
I like to know why things happen.
Why people die? Give it up, D'Amour. Go home.
No.
I want to speak to Dorothea.
I'm afraid she's not in.
When will she be in?
I can't let you in.
Yeah, I know.
You want more money, is that it?
Leave her alone 
Shut up!
Are you satisfied now?
No.
You rigged the illusion to fail, right?
Yes.
You paid off the doctor. You set up the fake body. Yes?
Yes.
And then... because I was getting too close to something  or someone, you called Swann
I tried to pay you off.
Was that Swann's idea?
No. It was mine. I didn't want any more bloodshed. That's why we went to all this trouble, so there'd be no one for Nix to come after.
Nix is dead and buried, for fuck's sake.
Haven't you seen enough to know that doesn't matter?
I want to see Swann face to face.
Why don't you leave this alone? Let everybody think it's over?
D'Amour 
Shit...
Help me.
Him too.
We've got to get you to a hospital.
Don't bother.
Shut up. We've lost enough lives already.
I'm sorry, D'Amour...
What about?
... Looks like you're going... to lose... one more.
You believe that?
I think we walk a narrow path, between... between...
Heaven and Hell?
Trickery and divinity.
Are you saying that sometimes the miracles are real?
No. I'm saying they were always fake. The saints, the messiahs, they were just illusionists.
So could you walk on water?
I could reproduce any miracle that's ever been performed, with a little preparation.
What about Swann's miracles?
They weren't worth a damn.
I heard he was the best.
If he was so good why's he so dead?
You tell me. No? I thought you'd maybe have a theory.
Oh, I've got plenty.
I'd like to hear them.
I'm not saying another word. You damn fool. He's a journalist.
Just tell me about Swann. Or are you too scared?
He was a freak. Everything he did was tainted.
With what?
Evil. He was evil. Come on.
Great accent, by the way. Is it Brooklyn?
Fuck you.
What were you doing up there?
I'm a private detective. I was hired to follow somebody for a few days. A guy called Tapert. Insurance fraud.
Tapert. So, now I've got Tapert, Butterfield.
Tapert's got nothing to do with this. He came here to get his palm read.
What makes you so sure?
I got a file on him two inches thick. He's a petty fraudster. This is something else. Ever heard of someone called the Puritan?
New one on me. Okay. Let's see him.
Where the fuck is he?
He got up and walked.
After that fall?. He must have broken half his bones.
And this Butterfield guy
vanished.
Another fucking magician. Jesus.
Are you finished with me?
For now. Are you planning to go back to New York?
No. Not yet...
Bad show last night?
The usual. Full house. Standing ovation. I tell them it's magic...
... they believe you.
Yeah. Remember Quaid?
Sure.
Somebody killed him.
Oh God.
I just saw him.
I'm putting in a new illusion tonight. Will you be there?
Sure. You want me to find out about Quaid? I mean, the funeral?
No. I'm not going near him.
Valentin?
Good. There. Yes?
You saw this?
Crank call. I'll get the number changed.
No word from D'Amour?
It's better he's gone. He would have done more harm than good.
Harm to whom? Me? I don't think, so. Try him again at the hotel.
I left three messages already.
What about me?
Nix was never interested in you. It was always Swann.
I want you to help me help my husband. I know he's in some kind of trouble. And it's something to do with the man you saw murdered.
Did your husband know Quaid?
Yes. They weren't close, but they saw each other once in a while. I think Philip believes all that stuff with the tarot cards.
You don't?
I think we make our own futures.
What's the connection?
I don't exactly know. Philip doesn't like to talk about the past.
Why not?
He's a secretive man.
And you don't ask questions?
We don't share our lives the way a lot of people do.
Does that mean...?
We haven't slept in the same bed for years.
But obviously you still care what happens to him.
We wouldn't be having this conversation if I didn't. Swann's one of the most remarkable men alive.
You don't believe me.
He's an illusionist. It's not exactly brain surgery.
Sorry. You asked.
No. You're right. He could have been something more. Maybe a lot more. But people get lost. Even good people. Too much fame. Too much money,
Where do I sign?
Will you take the job, Mr. D'Amour?
Harry.
Harry.
I'm no bodyguard.
That's not what I'm asking for. I want somebody who can find out what Philip saw in those damn cards. And stop it from happening.
When do you want me to start?
Come to the show with me. Tonight I want you to see him with an audience. They love him.
Do you?
I didn't marry him for love, Mr. D'Amour. Tonight?
Sure.
He's good.
You haven't seen anything yet.
Are they treating you okay?
I heard what happened. It looks like somebody murdered him.
I'm sorry I got into this too late. But if you want me to stick around, maybe dig where the cops don't look...
I don't know where you'd start.
Well... how about some of the other illusionists?
They won't tell you anything.
I can be very persuasive.
Yes. I think you probably can. We'd need to talk about your fee.
Forget the fee. If I find Butterfield, maybe we'll talk about money. If I don't... ...my gamble. Either way... I get to spend some time... here.
How did it go today?
I went up to the Magic Castle. You were right. He didn't have a lot of fans up there.
They were jealous of him.
Why? Because he had you?
He... didn't have me.. I told you
You didn't marry him for love.
So why did you marry him?
That's my business. Harry.
Just curious. Back to business. Ever heard of a man called Nix? Dorothea?
Yes... I'm here. And no. I don't know the name.
What about Jennifer Desiderio?
It doesn't ring a bell. I have to go.
Okay. I'll keep digging.
Yes. You do that.
Flesh is a trap. That's what he used to say. Flesh is a trap and magic sets us free. Why did you come back?
I didn't leave. I was just digging around.
What did you find?
Jennifer Desiderio, for one. She threw herself in front of a car this afternoon.
Oh Christ.
Why don't you tell me the truth?
Nix ran some kind of cult, right? Some kind of Charlie Manson deal?
It was more than that, I think.
He was the real thing, right?
Swann said he could do stuff, yes.
Stuff?
He could get into people's heads. Make them see things. Terrible things. And he could levitate. Juggle fire.
He taught all this to Swann?
Some or it.
So Swann was performing magic. not illusions? And what? You thought he should be using it to cure cancer, not making millions.
I told you 
Too much fame. Yeah, I guess that'd turn anybody's head. Including yours.
No.
You said you weren't with him for love.
I wasn't.
What then?
I was grateful to him. I owed him my life. And he loved me. He couldn't always show it, but he felt it.
He thought Nix was coming back, didn't he?
It's okay.
No it isn't. You can't help me.
I'm here, aren't I?
Nothing's going to happen to you.
Nothing?
Nothing you don't want.
I was so afraid.
Don't be. Nix can't hurt you now.
Are you sure?
I'm sure. He's dead.
I know. I'm the one who shot him.
I was twelve. Nix took me hostage, to get Swann to come to him.
And they all came...
Yes.
Quaid and Jennifer
And Pimm and Swann. Only Nix was ready for them.
What was that?
It's okay.
Are you all right?
Find Valentin! Find him! Get him in here!
Harry?
It's all right. It's not hurting...
Oh God!
Hang on!
I've got to help him.
You can't.
Nix has got to have a weak spot. Everybody's got a fucking weak spot.
No! No! No!
Harry...
... oh... God...
I'm here, Harry.
...yes?
Yes.
Don't look.
I... have... to.
Harry?
I'm okay. I'm okay.
Is it finished?
I think so.
What the fuck?
Harry?
Out! Out!
Ever watched a man die? If you watch very closely, you can sometimes see the soul escaping. And if you're very quick, you can catch it.
Please... Butterfield... I wasn't there. Ask Pimm.
Pimm's dead. Jennifer Desiderio's disappeared. They knew the Puritan was coming home.
So do you. You've seen the future. Haven't you?
Yes.
And are you afraid?
Yes.
Please... I wasn't there... Ask Pimm.
Pimm's dead. Jennifer Desiderio's disappeared...
Do you wish him to be amongst us?
Yes...
Will you come to him on your knees?
Yes...
Be ready.
He's with us...
He's with us... He's with us...
Jesus. Valentin. What did you do to your face?
It was me.
Like the look of these? I made them myself, to set him free.
Why did you wait so long?
I didn't have the skill to resurrect him. I had to teach myself. And that took time.
And you think he'll be in a fit state to resurrect, after thirteen years?
If he was just a man like me, then no. But he's not.
What is he?
Maybe he'll show you.
Please.
I could scoop them out.
Don't.
So tell me where Nix is buried.
I don't know.
I'll tell you.
You'll do more.than that.
Anything?
Not yet.
If you've lied to me to me 
I swear... this is the place Swann told me about. The rocks...
Oh Christ! Oh Christ!
It's him... it's him.
D'Amour... D'Amour... Why do I know that name?
I know him. I saw him.
I saw him on T.V. Some kid got possessed and he saved the little bastard's life.
He's a priest?
No. He's just a guy who's got a nose for this shit. Like you.
I don't want him getting in the way.
He won't.
We've all of us waited too long to have the homecoming spoiled.
What do you mean, "all of us?"
You didn't think it was just going to be you and me? A lot of people believed in Nix. They haven't forgotten his promise.
About?
Death.
What about death?
It's an illusion.
You did. Didn't you?
Why would I do that?
Beats me.
You don't have a clue what you're into, do you?
Deep shit?
Who did this?
I told you 
Who did this?
All right. It was...
How'd you spell that again?
D.A.M.O.U.R. D'Amour. Harry D'Amour.
D'Amour.
Right.
Isn't that French for something?
Right.
That's so cool.
I gotta be careful. If Vinovich sees me talking to you. He's an asshole, but he's a powerful asshole.
They go together.
I've heard a name. Someone they talk about in whispers.
Who?
Nix.
Nix?
Like in nothing. Nobody. Nix.
Who is he?
I think maybe he taught Swann. This is me. See ya around.
I'm sure they'll have this place rigged.
How?
It'll be something hokey.
I hear Mrs. Swann's quite a babe.
You heard right.
You ever been married?
Yeah. She was killed in a car crash. Her lawyer was driving. She was filing for divorce.
Why?
My life was too weird for her.
I love weird.
Billy? This was on Miller's forehead. Any idea what it is?
Nope.
I could have lost my fucking hands.
That would have kept you out of the Magic Circle. Which was presumably the idea. These are about Nix.
That's Butterfield...
doorway) And who's that?
Take a look at this.
A Nix specialty?
Maybe they're not tricks.
I mean, there's no instructions What do you mean, they're not tricks?
What did Vinovich say? Something about walking a path between 
Trickery and divinity. Yeah, he says that all the time.
That's because he knew. He'd seen these files and knew.
Knew what?
Hokey enough for you?
I'm out of here, man! Are you coming?
Thanks, Billy.
Hey, anytime. Actually, no. This was enough.
Mister D'Amour?
Yeah. It's French.
Yeah?
You haven't paid the cab. He won't give us your bags 'til you pay him.
How much?
Thirtyfive bucks.
Tell him he can keep them. The Bellboy looks puzzled.
Hello, L.A.
Have a nice evening, Mr. D'Amour.
You bet.
You going to tell her?
You going to tell him?
He doesn't need to know all my business.
He's gonna find out.
So? What's he gonna do, arrest us?
It's supposed to be some big sin, even if you love each other.
You believe that?
I know you?
Name's Otis.
Otis what?
Payne.
One of Cleroe Payne's boys?
Uhhuh.
I sent your Daddy to the farm once.
I know that.
Why you think that was?
As I remember it was because he had a sassy mouth on him. Must run in the familyYou wouldn't be runnin' numbers out of this club, now, would you, son?
Runnin' numbers illegal.
Runnin' numbers without I know about it is both illegal and unhealthy. You remember that.
How come you don't took familiar?
Been away. Up to Houston.
Houston, huh? I hear they let you boys run wild up there.
but longhorns are hard to come by these days.
You sell much out here?
How am I gonna sell things if nobody comes by? This stretch of road runs between Nowheres and Nothin' Much.
Hell of a spot to put a business.
But you don't see much competition, do you?
Buffalo chips. Fella in Santa Fe told me he sells these as fast as the buffalo can squeeze 'em out.
So when did Buddy leave?
For Frontera? Hell, I can't remember dates no more. I do recall it was after an affair of the heart had gone sour on him. He almost took some poor fella's head off at the Legion in Arroyo Grande, and figured it was time to move on.
You think he killed anybody in Korea?
They don't hand those medals out for hidin'in your foxhole. Would you buy this?
No
Me neither.
If he hadn't found that Deputy job, I believe Buddy might've gone down the other path, got into some serious trouble. Settled him right down. That and your mother. 'Course he had that other one later.
Another woman?
Your mother wasn't one to get chased off her patch. Half the damn county knew and nobody thought the worse of her for seein' it through.
You know who it was?
The other one? Hell, at my age, every time you learn a new name you got to forget an old one. Your head's all crowded uphere it is
Hey Sam. Sorry 'bout that.
What's up?
We had about a dozen wets come over just upriver. They ran into one of our postsit was like a breakshot on a pool table, illegals runnin' every which way.
I haven't seen anybody come by.
We'll get 'em So you livin' out here now?
Yeah. It's quiet
I heard about that deal for your fatherYou must be real proud.
Sure.
The stories people tell, he was a real colorful fella
Don't mind him, Sheriff. Boy's just a bit slow, is all. He don't mean nothin' by it
That the problem, son? You Slow?
Otis, apologize to the Sheriff
You got him too scared to peep, Sheriff. Maybe if you put that gun up
You telling me what to do, Roderick?
No, Sheriff, I'm just
What's this I see? Is that whiskey in them glasses on the Bar? Roderick, I'm gonna have to cite you for a violation of state law
This is a club, Sheriffyou been in here
And people better clear out of here! Now!
Excellent performance, my friend. The judge was very impressed.
You don't need to cuff me.
You been talking so much trash today, you made us think you're a dangerous criminal. Be a good boy, now
You're the one who's a good boy. Man say "fetch" and you fetch
Just doing my job.
White man just using you to keep the Black man down.
This isn't Houston, my friend. We pretty much running things now. Our good day has come.
You suckers haven't had a good day since the Alamo.
Hospital says the other kid is in bad shape
The shooter local?
Down from Houston. I think he knew the girl before.
Okaywe'll take a statement from all the GIs before they go back to post. You can get the story from Otis over at the club.
Any poop on the John Doe you found out there today?
Nothin' much. The Rangers put Ben Wetzel on it. Catch you later.
You're out early.
Yeah.
Haven't seen much of you at the jail lately.
I been working on a few things.
Uhhuh.
I'm going over to the other side.
The Republicans?
Noto Mexico. I've got to talk to somebody.
They got telephones.
Gotta be in person.
Oh.
Sam? Ithe Committeeyou know Jorge and H.L. and allthey asked me
They want you to stand for Sheriff next election.
Yeah.
You'd do a good job.
How 'bout you?
Don't know if I'll still want it.
I didn't want to be going around your back.
I appreciate you telling me.
You think we need a new jail?
Well, it's a complicated issue
Something wrong?
They've got my Amado.
Got him here?
Somebody calledsomething about an electronics store.
I'll see what's going on.
I wasI was real sorry about Nando. He was a good fella. We haven't talked since.
We haven't talked since high school.
Yeah. I'll go check on your boy.
He's all yours.
Are you okay?
Field trip?
Lunch hour. My next class isn't till ninethirty.
Want to take a walk?
Your mother still doesn't like me.
I can't name anybody she does like these days.
I see she built a place up here by the river.
A real palace. She rattles around alone in that thing
She's done well for herselfon her own and all
So she tells me three times a week.
I thought you got through that pretty well.
They cooked the whole thing up without asking me.
People liked him.
Most people did, yeah.
I remember him watching me once. When I was littlebefore you and I
I was on the playground with all the other kids, but I thought he was only looking at me. I was afraid he was going to arrest mehe had those eyes, you know
Yeah.
Weird what you remember.
Your boy, there
Amado.
Nicelooking kid.
He hates me.
No
With Paloma, it's more like she pities and tolerates me totally age appropriate. But Amadohe'she's never been booksmart. Had a hard time learning to read. Me being a teacher and caring about those things is like an embarrassmentlike a betrayal.
Fernando did okay, and he dropped out
Fernando wasn't pissed off at everybody. He just wanted to fix their cars.
It might just be the age. I spent my first fifteen years trying to be just like Buddy and the next fifteen trying to give him a heart attack.
So why did you come back here, Sam?
Got divorced, I wasn't gonna work for my fatherinlaw anymore. The fellas down here said they'd back me
You don't want to be Sheriff.
I got to admit it's not what I thought it'd be. Back When Buddy had it hell, I'm just a jailer. Run a 60 room hotel with bars on the windows.
It can happen so sudden, can't it? Being left out on your own.
You've got your mother, your kids
They've got me. Different thing.
I should get back.
Pilar
Looks real bad if the teacher's late for class. It's really nice to talk with you, Sam.
We thought we were something, didn't we?
Yeah.
I look at my kids in schooltenth, eleventh graders. That's who we were. Children.
Yeah.
I mean what did we know about anything?
Nothing.
When Nando diedit was so suddenI was kind of in shock for awhile. Then I woke up and there was the whole rest of my life and I didn't have any idea what to do with it.
You know the other day, you asked why I came back?
Yeah?
I came back 'cause you were here.
Wow.
Yeah.
How come it feels the same?
I don't know. It just feels good. Always did.
So what are we gonna do about this?
More, I hope.
How long have you lived here?
Two years.
There's nothing on the walls. No pictures
Don't have kids. Other picturesI don't knowit's nothing I want to look back on.
Like your story is over.
I've felt that way, yeah.
It isn't. Not by a long shot. He holds her and they lie silently for a moment
Pilar
Yeah?
What was your father's name?
Eladio. Eladio. Cruz.
You gonna tell your mother we been seeing each other?
She'll figure it out sooner or later. I don't have to ask permission anymore, if that's what you mean.
You have any idea when your father died? Eladio?
Couple months before I was born
Try a year and a half. He bands her an old snapshot. PILAR looks at it
I've never seen my mother in a bathing suit before. Didn't know she owned one.
Buddy bought the cafe for her with money he took from the county. Pilar looks away, struggling not to cry
They can't pull this on me. It isn't fairI don't believe this
He paid the hospital bill when you were born. Your mom always calls you "our beautiful daughter" in the letters she wrote to him.
From the first time I saw you at schoolall those years we were married to other people I always felt like we were connected.
I remember thinking you were the one part of my life Buddy didn't have a piece of
I'm not having any more children. After Amado, I had some complications I can't get pregnant again, if that's what the rule is about
If I met you for the first time today, I'd still want to be with you.
We start from scratch
Yeah
Everything that went before, all that stuff, that historythe hell with it, right?
Morning, Sheriff.
Hey, Pete. How's it going?
Time marches on.
How much you got left?
Three months.
You stop growing that loco weed at your place, you'd see a lot more daylight.
It was for personal consumption.
You're going to smoke an acre and a half of marijuana?
I got a bad stomach. It helps me digest.
Your father never bothered me about it. Leastways not till the drug people got on his back in the late '60s.
I thought he busted you a couple times.
Different charge. I had a still. Made my own mescal.
That's how I ruined my stomach.
I'm surprised he bothered with it.
He was afraid I was going to poison somebody. Your father tried to do good for people
So I've heard
And your mother was a saint. That summer I built the patio at your house? She made me lunch every day.
Well, you were working there
It could have just been a box lunch from the jail.
You built our patio while you were on the county?
Out in the fresh air, nice gringo lady making you pieswho's gonna sit back in a little jail cell all day? Sheriff Buddy, man. Como el no hay dos. And after that cabron Charley Wade
I've heard Wade was a bit tough on the Mexicans
He murdered Eladio Cruz. That tough enough for you?
Murdered him?
Chucho Montoya saw it with his own eyes. Shot him in cold blood.
Not if you have half a brain in your head.
Of course you can.
What?
It doesn't have anything to do with being smart.
Mom?
Yeah?
You gonna stay out here?
For a while.
What's she singing about?
What do you think?
She finally got in
It's Saturday.
You got in late last night.
Yeah. I had uhmschool business.
Can I get this?
Nobody really wears that stuff, Paloma.
I could name five girls at school who have one just like it
Enough with the clothes
Just 'cause you went to Catholic school and wore a uniform.
I only went for my last two years.
How come?
Oh, my mother wanted to keep me away from away from boys.
I didn't understand the spot I was putting Roderick in.
And that was the last time you saw him?
OhI think he came in one more time with Hollis andnaw, your Daddy wasn't with them. Made their monthly pickup. Roderick wasn't in so I just kept my mouth good and shut and handed over that envelope.
That was the night he disappeared?
Could of been. That was white people's business.
And when my father was Sheriff?
What about it?
What was your deal with him?
Buddy was more a part of the big picturecounty political machine, chamber of commerce, zoning board if I kept those people happy, he was pretty much on my side. Whenever somebody thoughtthey start up another bar for the black folks, they'd behow should I put this? They'd be officially discouraged.
He ever accept cash for a favor?
I'm not open. We were just talking.
Hollis probably told you we found Charley Wade.
Yeah. How about that? People start digging holes in this county, there's no telling what'll come up.
Pilar, is uhmis Amado okay?
Okay? He's not here?
No. Is he sick?
He's going to wish he was dead.
I don't think you can take it personally
I'd like to see them spend a day pulling 14yearolds off of each otherI should get combat pay
I have new respect for some of my kids, meeting the parents they've been dealt
Mrs. Bledsoe?
That's me.
I'm Sheriff Deeds
Sheriff Deeds' dead, honeyyou just Sheriff junior.
Yeah, that's the story of my life.
You ever play one of these?
I've seen 'em.
Well, don't ever start up on 'em, cause once you do you can't stop. I tell myself I'm gonna play just three little games after breakfast, and here I sit with half the day gone.
You mind if I ask a few questions about your husband? Roderick?
I won't say nothing bad about the man, but you can ask away.
He had the club out on the old trail road
We run that twentyodd years. Give it over to Otis Payne in 1967. April.
So you must remember Sheriff Wade.
Not if I can help it.
You had to deal with him in running the club.
Them days, you deal with Sheriff Wade or you didn't deal at all. First of the month, every month, he remind you of who you really workin' for.
He squeezed money out of you?
Wasn't legal to sell liquor in a glass back then unless you was a club, see. Roderick used to say, "Buy yourself a drink, you get a free membership." But Sheriff Wade, he could shut you down anytime.
And my father?
Sheriff Buddy was a different story. Long as Roderick throw his weight the right way on election day, make sure all the colored get out to vote we was called colored back then, if you was politemaybe throw a barbecue for the right people now and then, things was peaceful. That Sheriff Wade, though, he took an awful big bite.
People didn't complain?
Not if they was colored or Meskin. Not if they wanted to keep breathin'.
Do you remember the last time you saw him?
These ones coming up are getting stupider every year.
Maybe you're just getting less patient.
If they're going to survive here, they have to know how to work, Elalco! Adelante! Los clientes esperan!
Well, you hire illegals
Nobody is illegal in my cafe! They've got green cards, they've got relatives who were born hereif they only had a little common sense I'd be very happy.
If you spent a little more time training them
Did you come here to tell me how to run my business?
No. I was wondering if you'd like to take a trip down south with us. Maybe see where you grew up
Why would I want to go there?
Oh, come onyou must be curious how it's changed. Amado is into this big Tejano roots thing and I've never been further than Ciudad Leon
You want to see Mexicans, open your eyes and look around you. We're up to our ears in them.
Mami, how old were you when my father
He was killed.
Right. When he was killed.
A little older than Paloma is now.
How come you never got married again?
There must have been somebody.
I was too busy.
Nobody's too busy.
Maybe now. It was different back then. I had this place, I was doing all the shopping, all the cooking. What do I need some chulo with grease under his nails to drink up the profit?
Thank you.
I don't mean Fernando.
Mami, the first time I brought him home, those were your exact words "some chulo with grease under his nails."
I never said that.
You made it pretty damn clear you thought he was nobody.
I felt that you could do better for yourself
What? Become a nun? You didn't want me going out with Anglos
I never said that. It was just that boy
"That boy"Mami, say his name for chrissakes!
Steve called for you.
Steve?
Steve. Board of Education Steve who likes you? He goes for us hotblooded Mexican girls, I can tell.
Spanish, please. My mother would have a heart attack.
Your mother's family is Spanish?
Sure, they go back to Cortez. When he rode by, they were squatting in a hut cooking hamsters for dinner.
You got to be interested in somebody. All you do is work.
All my mother does is work. That's how you get to be Spanish.
How 'bout the Sheriff?
The Sheriff.
The oldhighschoolheartthrob Sheriff. I thought you were crazy about each other. He's available, you're available
I'm unmarried. I'm not available.
You told me one time it was true love.
We're building up tourism, Sam
People come here to catch bass and to get laid at the Boy's Town in Cuidad Leon
Sam
You ought to put up a banner "Frontera, Texas: Gateway to Cut Rate Pussy"
I got Eddie Richter at the Sentinel to kill that story.
The Perdido thing?
He agreed it wasn't exactly news
Danny's gonna be out for blood the next time.
There was a mandate in the last election
It wouldn't happen to be your construction company gonna get the bid on building this thing, would it, H.L. And Jorge, you wouldn't be thinking about a couple dozen new jobs to dangle in front of the voters
There isn't money allocated for that. But a jail
Look, I'm not gonna campaign against your deal here, but if anybody asks me, I got to tell them the truth. We don'tneeda new jail.
I heard there was a bit of a fuss.
Oh, you know, the usual troublemakers. Danny Padilla from the Sentinel, that crowd.
There was a faction pulling for that boy who was killed in the Gulf War Ruben
Santiago.
Right. But nobody here ever noticed him till they read his name on the national news
That so?
She put it even at three to three, so as the Mayor I get to cast the tiebreaker. The older generation won't have any problem with it. They remember how Buddy come to be Sheriff, that it was all 'cause he took their part.
Never heard from him again?
Not a peep. Buddy run the man out of town.
Ohhe come to an accommodation. Money doesn't always need to change hands to keep the wheels turning.
Right.
Look, I know you had some problems with your father, and he and Muriel well
I always wondered what you Mayors do when you're not cutting ribbons.
Sam! Hey podner! You caught me playing hooky
Floating around out here, playin' hell with them bassplay a little cards, play a little golf, drink some beer
Sounds great. Where do I sign up?
I haven't been out here for a while.
You go by your old house?
No.
Just as well. The new people just painted it some Godawful color
We found a body out by the Army base yesterday. Been there for a long time.
Was it Davy Crockett or Jim Bowie?
You recall if Charley Wade was a Mason?
Charley? I believe he was. Used to go for lodge meetings over to Laredo. What's he got to do with your body?
All it was wearing was a big old Masonic ring and a Rio County Sheriffs badge.
You don't remember anything else from that last night you saw him, do you?
I told the story enough timeshell, we were just in the car, he was stewing about the fight with Buddy while we drove over to Roderick Bledsoe's
Bledso
He owned the colored roadhouse before Big O
He still living?
No. I think his widow's still in their place in Darktown, though. You think it's Charley Wade, huh?
Forensics people are sure of it. You have any idea who might have put him there?
Besides my father, I mean.
There's no call for that, Sam. Fella made himself a pile of enemies over the years.
And Buddy was one of them.
We got that dedication tomorrow. This is a hell of a time to be draggin' up old business.
People have worked this whole big thing up around my father. If it's built on a crime, they deserve to know. Now I understand why you might want to believe he couldn't do it.
And I understand why you might want to think he could.
Morning, Hollis.
Sam! Quite a do the other day. It meant a lot to folks that you said something.
You thought any more about our murder?
We have a murder?
Charley Wade.
I wish I could tell you I remembered something new, but I can't.
I got an idea what happened.
Do you?
I think somewhere between Roderick Bledsoe's club and his house, Wade ran into Buddy Deeds. I think Buddy put a bullet in him, waited for him to die, threw him in the trunk of the Sheriff's car and drove him out by the Army post, I think he buried him under four feet of sand and never looked back.
You lived in the man's house what seventeen, eighteen years? And you didn't get to know him any better than that?
I got to go see somebody in San Antonio today. Your memory gets any better, I'll be back tonight.
Fellas.
Hey, Sam.
Open late.
Imonna find out one way or the other.
Your father had the finest sense of justice of any man I ever met
Yeah, and my mother was a saint. For fifteen years the whole damn town knew he had another woman on the side. Stole ten thousand dollars to set her up in business. But hell, what's that? You got a problem? Buddy'll fix it. Facing some time in jail? Buddy'll knock half of it off if you do what he says, when he says. You got some business that's not exactly legal? Talk to Buddy
Buddy Deeds
Buddy Deeds was a murderer.
The three of us cleaned up and took him to the post and put him under. Can't say I was much help.
And the ten thousand?
Widow's benefits. He figured it would make the disappearance look better, and that Mexican gal was just scrapin' by after Charley killed her man. They didn't get hooked up till late
Don't think the Rangers are likely to find out any more than they already have.
Word gets out who that body was, people are gonna think Buddy done it.
Historic occasion, isn't it?
Seems like we have another one every week.
Jorge and his Chamber of Commerce boys got to keep things hummin'
That kind of talk doesn't help, Sam.
Rather have that than the tenfoot high catfish statue
Which is why we need to talk to you about the new jailjust so we're all on the same page.
We don't need a new jail.
That's a matter of interpretation
We're already renting cells to the Feds for their overflow
Dammit, Sam, the people are concerned about crime
We need a drug rehab program, we need a new elementary school
When we backed you
When you backed me you needed somebody named Deeds to bump the other fella out of office. Hey, folks
"Fishbait," says Buddy, in that quiet way of his, "What you know about them tires that went missing from markets?" Fishbait thinks for a minute, then he lifts up a loose board from the porch floor and calls down into it, "C'mon out, Pooter, they caught us!"
Buddy Deeds. He had a way.
He known who it was onnacouna the tire tracks in the dirt from the back of the garage to where they loaded up. "Old Fishbait," he says, "never lifted a thing in this world if there was a way he could roll it."
Sam! I was just telling a few about your old man.
He was a unique individual.
Big day coming upI wish we'd have thought of it while he was still living. But he went so unexpected.
Better late than never. Korean War hero, Sheriff for near thirty years Buddy Deeds Memorial P
Every other damn thing in the country is called after Martin Luther King, they can't let our side have one measly park?
King wasn't Mexican, Fenton
Bad enough all the street names are in Spanish
They just wanted it to be one of theirs
That's not the whole story. The Mexicans that know, that remember, understand what Buddy was for their people. Hell, it was Mercedes over there who swung the deciding vote for him.
Tell that one, Hollis
Hell, everybody heard that story a million times.
The two of us were the only deputies back then me and Buddyit's what '58
'57, 1 believe
And the Sheriff at the time was Big Charley Wade. Charley was one of your oldfashioned bribeorbullets kind of Sheriffs, he took a healthy bite out of whatever moved through this county.
"Mas cerveza por favor."
That Buddy was a cool breeze.
Charley Wade were known to have put a good number of people in the ground, and your daddy gets eyeball to eyeball with him.
We made our collection at Roderick's place and that was the last anybody seen hide nor hair of him. He went missing the next day, along with ten thousand dollars in county funds from the safe at the jail.
Your mother was a saint.
but Buddy Deeds was my salvation.
Es muy lindo, su coche
En ingles Enrique. This is the United States. We speak English.
Is very beautiful, your car.
Good night, Enrique. She slides into the car
Buenas noches, Senora Cruz. Enrique walks in the opposite direction
Senora Cruz?
Quien es? [Who is it?]
Soy yo, Enrique! No tiene miedo [It's me, Enrique. Don't be afraid]
What are you doing out there? Are you crazy?
Hay pasado un accidente muy grave [There's been a bad accident]
In English, Enrique. We're in the United States
I have some friends who have had a accident
You have somebody else out there?
We was by the river? And I hear my friend callin' for help, and I look and she has falling in the water
Don't tell me lies, Enrique. Que paso?
We was crossin' the river
Enrique! Quienes son estos? How could you bring them here?
They need help. Jaime, Anselma esta es mi jefa
No! No puede hacer esto[You can't do that]
You think you're doing these people a favor? What are they going to do? Either they get on welfare or they become criminals
No es la verdad[That isn't true]
This girl is a friend of yours?
Es mi novia. [She's my girlfriend.]
I thought you were married!
I am marry to the cousin of a friend but only to be able to live here. This is the mother of my child
This girl has a child?
We have a daughter.
Tipico.
Rapidamente! Everybody in the world is going to see!
Donde vamos? [Where are we going?]
A casa de Porfirio Zayas. He used to be a doctor on the other side. Gunshot wounds, fixing babiesif you can pay he can handle it.
Senora, anything it costs, I can work
Don't worry about it. He owes me some favors.
Donde esta? Estoy perdido[Where are you? I'm lost]
Aqui! [Here!]
No puedo ver la orilla! [I can't see the bank!]
Aqui! Venga por aqui! [Over here! Come this way!]
Vi a Rosaria arastrado para el corriente[I saw Rosaria taken away by the current]
No te molestas. Tenemos a ella. [Don't worry. We've got her.]
Como se llama? [What's your name?]
Mercedes Gonzales Ruiz.
Me llama Eladio CruzBienvenido a Tejas. [Welcome to Texas.]
Hola, amgio. Problemas de llanta? [Hey, friend. Tire problems?]
No hay de que. Tengo otra. [No problem, I've got another.]
What's in the back?
Not much, jefe. Some watermelons.
I heard somebody been haulin' wets on this road.
I haven't seen anybody doing that.
This same person been bragging all over the county how he don't have to cut that big gringo Sheriff in on it he can run his own operation 'thout any help. Como se llama, amigo?
Eladio Cruz.
You know this road got a bad reputation, Eladio
Reputation?
Bandidos, Injuns
There's many an unfortunate soul been ambushed out on this stretch. Hope you're carrying some protection.
Protection?
You carryin' a firearm, son? Don't lie to me now.
Sitengo escopetojust a shotgun
Just a shotgun, huh? Better let me take a look at that.
Black Seminoles?
Hobby of mine. Got some artifacts, couple pieces one of your men out at the base made. Free admission.
That where he was shot?
That's where he fell.
You get much of that in here?
It's a bar. People come together, drink, fall in love, fall out of love, air their grudges out
Deal drugs in the bathroom
If I thought it would help I'd put up a sign telling them not to. Right under the one about the employees washing their hands.
This here's Carolyn. Honey, this is my son, Delmore.
Nice to meet you, Ma'am.
So.
So tell me why I shouldn't make this place offlimits.
This is an official visit, then
I assume a lot of your business is from our people.
Your boys out there cooped up together, need somewhere they can let the steam out. If they're Black, there's not but one place in this town they feel welcome. Been that way since before you were born.
We have an enlisted man's club at the post.
Well, you're the Man out there now, aren't you? It's your call.
That's right.
I been hearing rumors about this new commander coming for a couple weeks now. Boys say they heard he's a real hard case. Spitandpolish man. Full bird colonel name of Payne, they say Bet you never figured you end up back here.
The Army hands you a command, you go wherever it is.
Right.
I hear things, too. People call you the Mayor of Darktown.
Over the years, this is the one place that's always been there. I loan a little money out, settle some arguments. Got a cot in the back people get afraid to go home they can spend the night. There's not enough of us to run anything in this town the white people are mostly out on the lake now and the Mexicans hire each other. There's the Holiness Church and there's Big O's place.
And people make their choice
A lot of 'em choose both. There's not like a borderline between the good people and the bad peopleyou're not either on one side or the other
I gonna meet that family of yours?
Why would you want to do that?
Because I'm your father.
There's not that much down here, Colonel. Big O's is the only place in the county that our African American soldiers are uhmthat they feel comfortable in.
Have we had trouble there before?
You know how it is, Colonelfirst time away from home, dealing with new peopleI remember my first hitch
Substance abuse?
Well, yeah, but I went through the Program. I haven't had a drink since
I meant on the post. In general. How are you dealing with it?
I sprint the last quarter mile. You gentlemen don't have to keep up if you don't care to.
Appreciate it, sir.
Now I'm just as liberal as the next guy
If the next guy's a redneck.
but I gotta say I think there's something to this cold climate business. I mean, you go to the beach what do you do? Drink a few beers, wait for a fish to flop up on the sand. Can't build no civilization that way. You got a hard winter coming, though, you got to plan ahead, and that gives your cerebral cortex a workout.
Good deal you were born down here, then.
You joke about it, Sam, but we are in a state of crisis. The lines of demarcation has gotten fuzzyto run a sucessfull civilization you got to have lines of demarcation between right and wrong, between this one and that oneyour Daddy understood that. He was like the whatchacallit the referee for this damn menudo we got down here. He understood how most people don't want their sugar and salt in the same jar.
You mixed drinks bad as you mix metaphors, you be out of a job.
Take that pair over in the corner
warning. Not 'cause he had it in for the colored
but just as a kind of safety tip.
Yeah. I bet he would.
Old Sam stood for somethin', you know? The day that man died they broke the goddamn mold.
I was driving back from Apache Wells when they got me on the radio.
This was a rifle range way back when. But we figured it isn't Army land anymore, it's your jurisdiction.
I've got the forensics fella coming down from the Rangers. No way to know how old the body is without some lab work.
That ring
Masons been around a long while.
Treasure hunter?
Old bullets. He uhm makes art with them.
Sheriffhithis is Sergeantthis is Priscilla Worth.
Pleased to meet you.
Sheriff Deeds was in on our archeological find yesterday.
He'll be transferred to a military hospital as soon as he's stabilized
He'll probably be getting a medical discharge
You spoil 'em, Cliff.
Heyshe's in a tough situation. I cut her some slack
But I'm the one in charge of her sorry ass.
She's pulled herself out of a pretty rough neighborhood.
So where does that put us?
WellI don't see what's changed. No  PDA's, no necking on the obstacle course.
Seriously.
Seriously, I think we should get married.
We been through this before
We should just do it.
And if I get a shot at a promotion somewhere
You could take it
It's up or out these days, Cliff. Say I get transferred to a different post
I'd quit the Army for you, if it came to that.
Man's gonna retire in two years and he offer to quit. Big goddamn deal.
They stopped training infantry there in the late '50s. It was just a playground for the jackrabbits till they gave it to the county last year.
You know who it was they dug up?
This place is a gold mine.
Lead mine.
What?
It's a lead mine.
Right.
I don't know why I'm talking to you, you've got that thing on your head.
You finding lots of cactus and shit?
It's not just cactus. There's the nopals, the yuccas
Looks like a lot of cactus to me.
Man knows a hundredfifty varieties of beer, he can't tell a poinsettia from a prickly pear.
Cliff
You live in a place, you should know something about it. Explore
Cliff
The Sheriff says we shouldn't touch anything,
He can't hear with that rig on Mikey!
Since I've been stationed here? A fistfight now and then
We had a kid pass out in the men's room. The town isn't much.
Guy cracks walnuts with his asshole.
You get the feeling he doesn't want to be here?
Never thought I'd see the day a buddy of mine was dating a woman with three up and three down on her shoulder.
I think it's beyond what you'd call dating.
You going to get married?
Maybe.
You met her family? They gonna be cool about you being a white guy?
Priscilla says they think any woman over 30 who isn't married must be a lesbian. She figures they'll be so relieved I'm a man
Always heartwarming to see a prejudice defeated by a deeper prejudice. But marriage, manI did two tours in Southeast Asia and I was married for five yearsI couldn't tell you which experience was worse.
Hey, Mikey
I knew she was Japanese going into it, but she didn't tell me the ninja assassin part
Mikey
Her parents acted like I was gonna blow my nose on their curtains
Mikey
If I stayed out past ten with the guys she'd go into her Madame Butterfly routine
Mikey look at this
Whatit's a bullet. I'm lousy with bullets here.
It's a .45.
Yeah?
This is the stuff we picked up the other day, right? The rest of this is all .30 caliber
They were using M1's, yeah
What's it doing on a rifle range?
Recycling, right? We invented that. The government doesn't have to tell people to do it.
You own this place?
This place, the one across the street, four other ones around Ciudad Leon soy el Rey de las Llantas. King of the Tires. Lots of your people rollin' back over that bridge on my rubber.
You lived in the States for a while?
Fifteen years in El Paso.
Made some money, came back here
Something like that.
You ever know a fella named Eladio Cruz?
Bird flying southyou think he sees that line? Rattlesnake, javelina whatever you gothalfway across that line they don't start thinking different. So why should a man?
Your government always been pretty happy to have that line. The question's just been where to draw it
My government can go fuck itself, and so can yours. I'm talking about people heremen. Mi amigo Eladio Cruz is giving some friends of his a lift in his camion one day
Otis Payne was never embarrassed about a thing in his life.
Dad
Dad?
"Hey, Delmore, where's your Daddy?"
Big O was always there with a smile or a loan or a free drink.
Dad, can I talk to you about track?
Dad, I talked to the track coach
I thought we already had this out? Next year, if your grades are high enough
I have a B average.
How many Baverage students do you think they take at West Point?
Homework?
I finished that. I'm just messing around.
Tanks, huh?
You got to be in the Army, you might as well have something slick to drive.
So you're going into the Army?
Not that I don't think you'd be good at it, butyou knowI wouldn't be disappointed if you decided to do something else with your life.
You wouldn't?
No.
How's your room shaping up?
Fine. I'm pretty much moved in.
Good.
Are we going to ever see your father?
My father.
Yeah. He lives here, right?
He does.
Maybe we'll clean that thing out back up, have a barbecue next weekend. We could invite him and his wife over.
Cool.
You weren't in here tonight, were you?
No sir.
Go out through the back.
Spanish in Florida called him Juan Caballo. John Horse.
He a Black man or an Indian?
Both.
He was part of the Seminole Nation, got pushed down into the Everglades in pioneer days. African people who run off from the slaveholders hooked up with them, married up, had children. When the Spanish give up Florida, the U.S.Army come down to move all them Indian peoples off to Oklahoma
The Trail of Tears.
They teaching that now? Good. Only a couple of 'em held outthis man, John Horse, and his friend Wild Cat, and a fella name of Osceola. Army put all of them in prison and Osceola died, but them other two escaped and put together a fighting band and held out another ten, fifteen years. Beat Zach Taylor and a thousand troops at Lake Okeechobee.
So they stayed in Florida?
They got tired of fighting, went to the Indian Territories for a while. But the slaveraiders were on 'em even there, and one night they packed up and nearly the whole band rode down to Mexico. Crossed at Eagle Pass.
Men worked for Santa Anna down there, waited out the Civil War. The land wasn't much to feed people on, so in 1870 they come north and put up at Fort Duncan and the men joined up what was called the Seminole Negro Indian Scouts. Best trackers either side of the border. Bandits, rustlers, Texas rednecks, Kiowa, Comanche
They fought against the Indians?
Same as they done in Mexico.
But they were Indians themselves.
They were in the Army. Like your father.
You know who I am?
I got a pretty good guess.
That guy who got shot
You didn't go telling your father you were here?
Are you kidding? And face a court martial?
He's a pretty tough old man, huh?
No sports if I don't keep a B average, no TV on school nights, no PDA's
PDA?
Public Display of Affection. Every time he moves up a rank, it's like he's got to tighten the screws a little more
Well
I mean, just 'cause he didn'tyou know
Didn't have a father?
He's still pissed off about it.
When you're his age you'll still be pissed off about him.
So how come you got into all this?
These are our people. There were Paynes in Florida, Oklahoma, Piedras Negrascouple of 'em won the whatsit Congressional Medal Of Honor
So I'm partIndian?
By blood you are. But blood only means what you let it.
My father says the day you're born you start from scratch, no breaks and no excuses, and you got to pull yourself up on your own.
Well, he's living proof of that, son. Living proof.
You'll get official notification when I make my decision. He is out the doorOtis pulls himself a beer as Carolyn steps back out
So that's him
Hey, it's the General.
Colonel. Is uhmis Otis in?
Come on in
If it's too late
Come on in.
You've been in this house for a while?
I been here with him eight years now. He built it when he was with Leora.
I never met her.
There was a bunch of 'em You never met. Me neither.
Where'd he get all this?
Your mother got a brotherAlphonse
Uncle Al
Otis stood on good terms with the man. Whenever you do something makes the news, he sends it on. When they made you General, Otis just about drove away all our customers going on about it.
I'm a colonel.
Yeah, I knowMan made me memorize the whole damn Army chain of command before he'd marry me. So this is a big deal, commander and all?
It's a small post and they're phasing it out in two years, but I moved up in rank andwell, a command is a command.
Otis went on like you were that guy who won the Gulf War. Colin whatsit.
My mother said he never asked about
He never asked her.
The Longhorns gonna kick some serious butt this Saturday, you just watch. We got a kid at tailback from down your wayoutta El Indio
That's in Maverick County.
Oh. Right. And you're in?
Rio. BUNNY Right. This kid, Hosea Brown? Does tire 40 in 3.4, soft hands, lateral movementthe whole package. Only a sophomore
You still going to all the home games?
Well, Daddy's got his box at the stadium, of course, and I'll fly to the Cowboy away games when they're in the Conference. Then there's the high school on Friday' nights. West Side got a boy 6'6", 310, moves like a cat. High school, we're talkin'. Guess how much he can benchpress?
Bunny, youuhmyou on that same medication?
Do I seem jumpy?
No, you look good. I was just wondering.
Last year was awful roughMama passing on and the whole business with O.J.I mean it's not like it was Don Meredith or Roger Staubach or one of our own boys, but it really knocked me for a loop
You look good
and that squeaker the Aggies dropped to Oklahomasonofabitch stepped in some lucky shit before he kicked that goal
Yeah, well
they hadn't pulled me off that woman I would have jerked a knot in her.
You were in a fight
Daddy calls it an "altercation." How you doing, Sam? You look skinny.
Same weight I always was.
You look awful good in that uniform, though.
Best part of the job.
Daddy hired a pinhead to take your job. He says so himself. Says "Even my soninlaw was better than this pinhead I got now".
Bunny, is that stuff I left in the garage still there?
Least he never called me that. With me, it was always "highstrung." "My Bunny might have done something with her life, she wasn't so highstrung." Or "tightly wound," that was another one. You seeing anyone?
No. You?
Yeah. Sort of. Daddy rounds 'em up. You aren't talking about money, their beady little eyes go dead.
You didn'tuhmyou didn't have one of your fires, did you? The stuff I left in the garagesome of it was my father's
You watch the draft this year? 'Course you didn't, idiot question. They try to make it dramatic, like there's some big surprise who picks who in the first round? Only they been working it over with their experts and their computers for months. Doctor's reports, highlight reels, coaches' evaluations, psychological profileshell, I wouldn't be surprised if they collected stool samples on these boys, have 'em analyzed. All this stuff to pick a football player for your squad. Compared to that, what you know about the person you get married to don't amount to diddly, does it?
Suppose not.
You kind of bought yourself a pig in a poke, didn't you, Sam? All that time we were first seeing each other you didn't know I was tightly wound
It wasn't just you, Bunny.
No, it wasn't, was it? You didn't exactly throw yourself into it heart and soul, did you?
350 pounds.
What?
This boy from West Side, plays tackle both ways. Benchpresses 350 pounds. You imagine having that much weight on top of you? Pushing down? Be hard to breathe. Hard to swallow.
I think they have another fella there to keep it off your chest. A spotter.
"I only got my little girl now," he says, "she's my lifeline." Then he tells me I can't be in the box anymore if I can't control myself. Sonofabitch don't even watch the damn game, just sits there drinking with his bidness friends, look up at the TV now and then. I do better to sit in the cheap seats with some real football people.
You look good, Bunny. It's nice to see you.
Thanks. I like it when you say that, Sam.
What's that for?
Jimmy got a kitchen full of wetbacks, most of 'em relatives. People breed like chickens.
So?
I roust some muchacho on the street, doesn't have his papers, all he got to say is "Yo trabajo para Jimmy Herrera."
It's your deal. You sweated it out of him, you pick it up.
There's gonna be some left over for you, Buddy. I take care of my boys.
That's not the point.
You feeling bad for Jimmy? Have him tell you the size of the mordida they took out of his hide when he run a place on the other side. Those old boys in Ciudad Leon
I'm not picking it up.
You do whatever I say you do or else you put it on the trail, son.
You ever shoot anybody was looking you in the eye?
Who said anything about shootin' anybody?
Whole different story; isn't it?
You're fired. You're outta the department.
There's not a soul in this county isn't sick to death of your bullshit, Charley. You made yourself scarce, you could make a lot of people happy.
You little pissant
Now or later, Charley. You won't have any trouble finding me.
Sam the Man.
Hey, Ben. Thanks for coming down.
How's business?
Business is booming. Got your drugs, got your illegalshad a shooting the other night at Big O'sSoldier got ventilated.
I hear they're closing that post down.
September '97, that's all she wrote.
Gonna pull a lot of jobs out of this county.
Yeah, we'll have folks swimming over to Mexico to work in the sweatshops.
That the word on our boy?
Yeah, this is Skinny.
Skinny?
We find a body, it's either Skinny or Stinky, depending on how much meat there is on the bones.
Nice job.
Male, 40 to 50 years old, fivefoot eleven, chewed tobaccothen we get into the dental records
Charley Wade.
That badge
it didn't come out of a cereal box.
Yeah.
You know the popular version of how he left town.
Everybody on the border knows that story.
You got a cause of death?
Skull was intact, no soft tissue leftnot much to go on.
So he could have gone out to the base, hopped the fence, dug down into the dirt on the old rifle range and had a heart attack.
You uhmyou remember what old Buddy carried for a side arm?
Colt Peacemaker.
A .45
He swore by it. What?
Just wondering.
So is Buddy on your short list?
If it was some poor mojado, swam across at night, got lost in the scrub and starved out there, we wouldn't go any further. But this is a formerly prominent citizen.
You got to investigate. No question about it.
What I will do is keep names out of it till we got some answers or hit a dead end. You know how the press is with a murder storyeven if it's forty years old.
Yeah, it's a pretty cold trail.
Did you know he was going to be there last night?
If I had I wouldn't have gone in.
And you and Private Graves
We were just dancing
We're not running a dating service here.
I know that, Sergeant. We were just dancing. There was a bunch of us there. Shadow just come down looking for trouble.
Private Johnson!
Sergeant?
Report to Dr. Innis at the clinic.
I'm feeling okay
I'm very happy to hear that, Private. Now you go put some peepee in a cup for Dr. Innis and I'll be feeling okay, too.
You're testing me?
You and one hundred nineteen other fortunate individuals. Put it in gear.
Yes, Sergeant.
So you knew this young man before?
From back in Houston. We both come up on Fifth Street.
It's not our job to get involved in your personal life, but when it interferes with the training here
I'm sorry, Sergeant Major. There wasn't anything I could do. Shadow gets crazy
Sergeant Major? How is Richie doing? Private Graves?
He'll live.
Out of the Army?
He's going to lose a lung. This is not good news for Athena
Will this go on my record?
If the incident happened the way you say it did, there hasn't been an infraction.
Thank you, Sergeant Major.
You're dismissed.
Thank you, Sergeant Major.
Private Johnson, are you unhappy in the Army?
No, sir
Then how would you explain the fact that out of one hundred twenty people we tested, you're the only one who came up positive for drugs?
I'm sorry, sir.
When you were given the opportunity to enlist, a kind of contract was agreed upon. I think the Army has honored its part of that agreement.
Yes, sir
Do you believe in what we're doing here, Private Johnson?
II can do the job, sir.
You don't sound too enthusiastic.
I am, sir.
What exactly do you think your job is, Private?
Follow orders. Do whatever they say.
Who's "they"?
Thethe officers.
And that's the job? Nothing about serving your country?
Well?
You really want to know, sir?
Please.
It's their country. This is one of the best deals they offer.
How do you think I got to be a colonel?
Work hard, be good at your job. Sir. Do whatever they tell you.
Do whatever they tell you
I mean, follow orders, sir.
With your attitude, Private, I'm surprised you want to stay in the service.
I do, sir.
Because it's a job?
Outside it'sit's such a messit's
Chaos.
Why do you think they let us in on the "deal"?
They got people to fight. Arabs, yellow people, whatever. Might as well use us.
Do you think you've been discriminated against on this post?
No, sir. Not at all.
Any serious problems with your sergeant or your fellow soldiers?
No, sir. They all been real straight with me.
Why don't you start with that?
Yes, sir.
You're dismissed, Private.
Thank you, sir.
I don't know what the big deal is.
You'll find out when I get you home. Thanks, Sam.
If you had your way I wouldn't have any friends.
Oh, come on, Amado
Just 'cause I'm not like Little Miss Honor Roll here
Leave your sister out of it.
You and all of the teachers in this dumpyour story's over, so you don't want anybody else to have fun.
I'm only going to have you for two more years. If you decide not to go on to college
I can't take any more school.
you're going to be on your own.
So?
So I'm worried about you. I don't want you to end up in jail like your friends.
They're not going to jail.
Don't try to con me, Amado. You knew how they got all those things.
Just some rich Anglo out on the lake. Don't even live here all year.
That makes it okay?
They stole our land
Save your breath. That line doesn't cut it with me.
How do you think you're going to make a living?
I can fix cars.
You can fix old cars. Mr. Washburn told me that the cars they're making now are all computerized
You think I can't learn that?
I think you can learn whatever you want to. I just don't see you doing it. If you want to settle for
I'm not settling for anything. I like cars, it's just not a move up the ladder to you, so you think it's a waste.
That isn't true.
Oh, come onyou and Grandma think anybody who works with their hands is a peasant. When Dad
If you grew up to he anywhere near as good a man as your father was, I would be happy! I would be thrilled.
It's my life. If I want to fuck it up, that's my business.
I said pretty much the same thing to my mother when I was your age.
And what did she do?
Two years at hard labor, Our Lady of Perpetual Help.
Catholic school, nasty.
You jerk
I'm not talking to you. You don't have any friends.
Who'd want to be friends with that bunch of pachuco wannabes?
I don't pretend I came over on the Mayflower
And those stupid girls who hang out with them
Just shut up.
Joanie Orozco's telling the whole school she's like desperately in love with Santo Guerra.
So?
It's pathetic. You can't be desperately in love when you're 14 years old.
Chill, Winston, it's me and Charlie can see it's me, so what's the problem?
The problem is, Willy, that Charlie and yourself are not the quickest of cats in the alley at the best of times, so just do as I say and keep the fucking cage locked.
What are you carrying, Willy?
Er, fertilizer.
You went out six hours ago to buy a money counter and you come back carrying two bags of fertilizer. Alarm bells are ringing, Willy.
We need fertilizer, Winston.
We also need a fucking money counter, William! We have to get the money out by Thursday and I'll be buggered if I am counting it . . . and if you have to get your sodding fertilizer, couldn't you be a little more subtle?
What do you mean?
I mean we grow copious amounts of ganja, and you don't look like your average horterfuckingculturalist, that's what I mean, Willy.
What have you come as?
Cupid stupid! That's the last time I am getting any more fruit off you Tom. Call that fresh? There was more small hairy armoured things in your fruit than there was fruit. You should open a butcher's, not a grocer's.
If you will order stuff that comes from KatManFuckingDu don't be surprised if your fruit picks up a few tourists en route. ~ Never mind that, what about the money?
Get your fingers out of my soup!
So, a reasonable return should be in the region of one hundred and twenty, for twentyfive grand invested. That's going on previous experiences.
That's going on optimism.
Whatever it's going on, it's still enough to send you on a cooking course.
You're not funny Tom; you're fat and look as though you should be funny, but you're not.
What you telling us for? The only thing I care about is whether you get your rest in.
Tom, you're all heart.
Listen cooky, you want to make sure that man rests before he plays; it's in all our interests.
Oh, you assume, do ya? What do they say about assumption being the brother of all fuckups?
It's the mother of fuckups, stupid!
Well, excuse me, brother, mother or any other sucker, doesn't make any difference, they are still fucking guns, and they still fire fucking bullets!
Where did you get those from, a museum?
Nick the Greek.
Well Jesus, that wasn't so bad, was it?
When the bottle in my arse has contracted I'll let you know.
What's left over?'
Hold on, give us half a chance to count it.
What about all the gear?
This guy Rory Breaker can afford to do the deal at the price we are selling. It's not worth him giving us trouble; he knows we would be a pain in the arse, and who wants a pain in the arse?
I would take a pain in the arse for half a million.
You would take a pain n the arse full stop.
Tom, the fatter you get, the sadder you get.
There's six black cocks sitting on the side of the road. How many beaks have they got between them?
Six.
How many wings have they got between them?
Twelve.
How many feet?
Er, well, twelve.
That's right. So how many whiskers has the little white kitten got?
How the fuck should I know?
How come you know so much about black cocks and so little about white pussy?]
The money, the gear!
That's fucked it. What do we do now? No money, no weed; it's all been swapped for a pile of corpses.
OK, don't panic; let's think about this.
You got a ticket already and, if you don't move it now, sir, we will move it for you.
I'll only be a minute.
You've already been fifteen.
Look. Go on, look.
At what, exactly?
My van is half full.
So?
So I've just got to put you in, and I am off.
What are you talking about? I am bloody skinny, pal.
Of course you are. All right, Ed.
How much did you say it was, Tom?
You know how much it is, Nick.
And that does include the amp?
You know it doesn't include the amp.
Not normal weed. This is some fuckedup skunk class A. I can't think let alone move shit.
Doesn't sound very good to me.
Neither me, but it depends on what flicks your switch, and the light's on and burning bright for the masses.
Jews don't celebrate Christmas, Tom.
Never mind that now. I also need some artillery, you know, a couple of sawnoff shotguns.
Bloody hell, Tom! This is a bit heavy. This is London, not the Lebanon' Who do you think I am?
I think you're Nick the Greek.
Jesus, if I pick them up, will they stay in one piece? Where did you get them from?
I got contacts. Listen Tom, if you pointed them at me I'd shit myself or do whatever you said to do. Either way you still get the desired effect.
They look nice, I agree . . . but lacking in criminal credibility, aren't they? I might get laughed at. How much do you want for these muskets?
Seven hundred each.
Sawnoffs are out, Tom; people like to have a bit mare range nowadays.
Range? I don't want to blow the arse out of this country, granted, but I don't want anybody blowing a raspberry at me either. I want to look fucking mean.
Of course you will look mean, Tom, you will look really scary.
All right, let's forget about them for the time being. What about your weed man?
Rory Breaker is standing by. You stand to make a lot of money, Tommy boy.
Hello, can I help you?
All right, it's Plank. Is Willie there?
No, I'm afraid he's not. He's out at the moment.
Well, perhaps you can help?
Well, perhaps I can't, Plank, if you know what I mean.
Look, could you just open the door so I could talk without shouting?
I can't help you, Plank.
I think you'll find it is in your interest.
Hold on. OK. Look Willie, it's Plank outside asking for you, he says it's in our interest.
I thought you were going to leave me out there all day.
I didn't know you were a kebab man, Plank.
Lives and learns doesn't one.
Sorry, got to do business like this now; can't be too careful these days.
I know. Now shut it. You say a fucking word the right knee goes, another word then your left.
What are you doing, Plank?
What do you think I am doing? Hold on. What are you doing? Unlock that gate. Oi! I said unlock that fucking gate.
Go on.
I like your bar.
Yes?
I want your bar.
And?
Do you want me to draw a picture?
Harry, that boy doesn't know his arsehole from his earhole, or you from a hoodwink. This bar is mine, and he has nothing to do with it.
What, and I care? Remember, you do have the luxurious advantage of being able to sustain your son's life.
And you do have a reputation, so I'll choose my words carefully. But not to put too fine a point on it, fuck yourself, Harry!
You got it all?
A hundred grand.
You must be Eddy. JD's son.
Yup, you must be Harry? Sorry, I didn't know your father.
Never mind son, you just might meet him if you carry on like that.
That is quite a raise, one hundred and fifty on my hundred.
Yes . . . and is there something else you want to say? EDDY
I will.
You will what?
I will loan you the money.
I think I would rather just turn them over.
I am not interested in what you would rather; I want to keep going. I am also offering you the money, so we don't have to turn them over because you can borrow.
I need two hundred and fifty grand.
No, you need five hundred grand to see me.
That's if I want to see you.
Well, you're going to have a problem carrying on, aintcha.
I'll see ya.
For half a million?
Unless you are going to accept twenty quid.
And still got a sense of humour. That's not monkey nuts son; you can still fold. OK, before I loan you this, I expect, if you lose of course, my money back within a week, Crystal? That's Sunday, OK?
That you, boy?
It's Ed, if that's what you mean.
It's pay day, ain't it?
I wanted to talk to you about that.
I bet you did. I have got half a million nicker sitting in front of me, which means that some poor sod doesn't. You must have upset a few people, boy . . . but that isn't really my concern, is it? But what does concern me is the guns you had. I want to talk to you about that. Get your arse over here now, and I do mean now!
Who's this fat man, then?
Bacon, the fat man and myself, and it's time to make a call to Harry.
You see it's not easy to take a seat at this table; the money involved has to be a hundred grand upwards and there is no shortage of punters.
The man who decides if you can play is this man Harry, or Hatchet Harry as some including himself like to call him.
What do you mean?
He means they're thieving dogs.
What the hell are you doing here?
Why, what's up?
Er, let me guess, my foot in your arse? A game of cards and Hatchet Harry. You're supposed to be getting some rest, boy!
I dunno, but they look nice. I rather like ' em.
Top of the list of priorities, how nice they look.
Everything all right out there, Tom?
Right as rain.
Where the hell are we supposed to hide?
Well, what did he say?
He said he thinks we have paid him, and he wants to talk about those guns . . . now.
You and me, Tom.
What do you mean, me?
Tom, this is our case.
. . . What?
This is our money, Tom! . . . Now I think we should go.
Tom, don't mess around, let's go.
I'11 meet you in the car.
Tom?
I'll only be a minute.
The only item that connects us with the crime is sitting in your car which is sitting outside?
We paid seven hundred quid for those guns. They could hardly trace them to you, could they?
Are you sure you can afford twentyfive?
Well that depends on how you look at it. I can afford it as long as I see it again, if that's what you mean. You got the rest from the fat man and Bacon?
Well, what do you want us to do about it?
Hit the fuckers.
What was that, armed? What do you mean, armed? Armed with what?
Er, bad breath, colourful language and a feather duster! . . . What do you think they will be armed with? Guns, you tit!
Guns! You never said anything about guns. A minute ago this was the safest job in the world, now it's turning in to a bad day in Bosnia . . .
Jesus, Soap, stop being such a mincer. I thought about that and...
And we will just have to find out who's going to be carrying them.
Carrying them. They could all be carrying them for what we know.
No, just one of them is in charge of them going to the job. So I assume he will still
Where the fuck are they going? To butcher a sheep? I thought this was a robbery.
Where did they get those outfits from? Haven't we got some like that, Tom?
No I fucking don't! You can't make a cup of tea, Edward.
Why not? The whole of the British Empire was built on cups of tea.
And look what happened to that.
If you think I am going to war without one, you're mistaken, mate.
That's it all done, we are off.
You think it's a good idea taking it back to yours?
There is nowhere else to keep it, and it's the last place they are going to look. Anyway the battle's over and the war is won.
I hope this is the right move.
It's either that, my old boy's place, and we lose a digit daily. I am going to call him.
You what? What are you on about?
Listen, if he has the guns he might have the money . . . I think we should go and see him.
Well, what's going on?
I don't know, but what I do know is that there's no more Harry, which means there's no more debt, and if there's no more debt there's no more problem, and there's no more problem with our neighbours because they are all dead. I think, if I get this right, we haven't done anything wrong anyway, which means we are in the clear.
I don't think we will take the risk for seven hundred quid.
Tom, go and throw those guns off a bridge.
There's nothing in it!
What do you mean?
I mean it's fucking empty.
Invitations.
Invitations?
Yeah invitations, you know a pretty white piece of paper with your name on it.
Well we have got about a hundred thousand pretty pieces of paper with the Queen on it. Will that do?
All right, just you; the others can wait in Samoan Jo's next door.
Samoan Jo's? Yon mean the pub? Hold on . . .
Hold on bollocks, no one but card players in here tonight sonny, and I do mean no one.
Willy, this is the last time, and don't let him know that you're here, otherwise he will be here all day, and get rid of him quick. We have work to do.
What the fuck is going on?
J, what's going on out there? Get the rifle out, Charles. We're being fucked.
Get the sodding gate open now, Plank.
Right, his leg's going now.
All right, all fucking right, I am coming. Willie, he doesn't know you are here, just sort something out, OK.
And all your friends, there's a good lad.
There is only three of us here.
Do you want me to take his leg off? Where's the fourth?
I mean it, there is only three of us here.
Plank?
Where?
Out the back.
And the weed?
Out the back.
So do you know these geezers well?
Well enough. I have been buying gear off one of them for a couple of years.
What they like then?
Poofs. Nothing heavy, four public school guys. Soft as shite.
There's one steel gate as you go in but they never lock it.
What do you mean, never? Well what have they got it for, then?
I must have been there fifty times, it's never been locked; they're not suspicious. Everybody who goes there are toffs. They're all into that karma crap: `If I don't harm nobody, nobody harms me' stuff.
Is there no way they can get back to you?
Even if they could they'd be too shit scared. They have got no muscle; they're gutless faggots.
There's nothing to worry about, it's going to be easy.
There is no such thing as easy in my experience and, if you think this is going to be easy, you're a dick. It may be easier than most but it's not going to be easy.
What's that idiot doing next door? We use your van. It's up some stairs this place, so we'll stick out like balls on a bulldog. Plank is going up first. There is a cage but it is never locked, is it Plank?
No.
And it better bloody not be. Once he is firmly in place, he gets the rest of us in. We'll get nasty with a couple of them, shit 'em up, scare and gag 'em. I can't see these wankers giving us a problem, but they might have a couple of tools hanging around like any cowboy. When the job is done we'll come straight back here. It's dark by then, unload and Robert's your father's brother. Everybody savvy?
DOG +++$+++
Just hold on, I got the keys.
What the fuck did you do to Fauntleroy?
I didn't touch him, he just passed out.
It must be this one.
Just give me the keys.
Don't you stags move or I'll kill the lot of ya.
Who are you going to kill Plank? There's no one there.
Yeah, one of them's out.
OK, open the gate.
My neck, Dog. That's the last bag?
How about you? All right?
I want you to search the house for bugs. I mean I want you to strip it.
What is the point in that? Even if it was a bug they would have taken it with 'em.
It is too late for you to start thinking John. It is a possibility and that is good enough for me. And after you strip the house, I want you to get every thieving slag this side of Ceylon and torture them, badly. I want to know who is responsible, otherwise I will hold you responsible.
So we have a bit of a problem, don't we?
Er well, yes we do.
In fact it is a little more than a bit of a problem, isn't it? You could say that in the scale of these things this is the Mount fucking Everest of problems, couldn't you? . . . And the reason it is such a mon fuckingstrosity of a problem is because you don't have the first fucking idea who did this to us, do you?
Dog, I have found the cash!
The stupid bastards! Count it!
Shit, Dog, there's a lot. Don't you want to do this next door?
We're not going next door until we've flayed these dead men walking. Count it out the back. I don't want them seeing you fingering that money as soon as they walk in.
But... Give it us here, you dozy sod. You hide and get the guns ready. Wait until they are well in, then give it to 'em.
OK Gary, we call each other Kenny, all right?
All right, Kenny.
Can't you pull that stocking down further, Kenny?
It just cost me fifty quid to have this done. If you think I am going to ruin it for a couple of old bastards you're mistaken, Kenny.
Who was that?
That was Hatchet Horrible Harry.
Jesus, I have heard about him.
We're in the spite. They were his fucking guns that we sold; we gotta find 'em.
We gotta get those guns.
This is dangerous shit, Dean; we don't even know who lives in there.
Listen, I don't care who lives in there; all as I know it's got to be preferable to death by Hatchet.
Furry muff, let's go.
Yeah?
That's no way to answer the phone.
Is that you, Dean?
Sure is.
What can I do for you?
You know those shotguns I sold ya, well I need 'em back.
Not likely I am afraid; I don't think I'll be seeing them again.
I got the money to pay for 'em.
I am sure you do, but I don't think you understand; I am not going to see them or the guns again.
How long has he been in there, son?
About twenty minutes.
Is he on his own?
Just carrying a bag.
Let's have a look, shall we?
It's not him, Dad.
Try that one.
That should take care of that lot. We are now officially in the money loaning business, all right, son?
All right, Dad.
Well, put your seatbelt on then.
Son?
Made a few quid, did ya? Now where is it?
You all right back there, mate?
Very fucking funny. Where's what I want?
It's in an office; I have just left it in the office. 137
Well, you had better go and get it from the office. That's if you want to see your son reach his next birthday. Now chopfuckin'chop.
All right, furry muff.
What are you doing?
Well, it's a five minute walk or a thirty second drive.
You had better be careful.
Mind your language in front of my boy.
Jesus Christ!
Did I say speak? And it's Mr Harry to you . . . Now don't disappoint me and chose your words carefully. You may speak.
I'll have it for Mr Harry in a few days. I have been busy, and I am nearly there.
Son, have a look in his locker.
No chance of you lifting this sunbed up is there?
Hello, John. Nice holiday?
I won't be seeing you again Chris; I have paid him every last penny.
I am sure you have, no one was accusing you of being dishonest, John.
It's about time you give my young friends a visit, Chris. Tomorrow is the day and mum seems to be the word, and I can't have that now, can I, Chris?
No Harry, you can't.
The boys had 'em. I know you like these things; wondered if you wanted them?
Er, yeah, sure, I'll have 'em.
Have you counted the money?
Yeah, it's all there, to the pound.
They were going to pay, then?
It looks like t, but who knows? The opportunity was there. In my experience it is best to take the opportunity if it is there.
Good job, Chris.
JD.
Chris. You come to collect something, Chris? Should I have something for you?
Nope.
Can I help?
I think I can help you, as it happens.
Yes?
I have got something for ya. Well, for your boy, actually.
Well, I suggest you speak to him, then.
Shotguns? What, like guns that fire shot?
Oh, you must be the brains then. That's right, guns that fire shot . . . Make sure you bring everything from inside the gun cabinet. There will be a load of guns, that's all I want. I'll pay you when you deliver. Everything outside the cabinet you can keep; it's yours.
Oh, thanks very much. And there had better be something there for us.
It's a fucking stately home, of course there'll be something there.
So who's the Guv? Who we doing this for?
You're doing it for me is all you need to know. You only know that because you need to know.
I see, one of those `on a need to know' basis things, like a James Bond film, is it?
Careful, remember who's giving you this job.
I hate these Southern shites.
Fucking Northern monkeys.
All right, all right, so we can say he is good.
Better than good, he is a fucking liability.
Where did he get a hundred grand?
And JD is his dad, and owns the whole property?
No mortgage, no debts; lock, stock, the sodding lot . . . don't worry, I got it under control.
Good, you can get this under control now.
Er, very nice Harry. What's it for?
Don't play innocent with me Bazza; spanking!
Like what?
Like antiques.
Antiques? What the fuck do we know about antiques? We rob post offices and steal cars, what the fuck do we know about antiques?
If it looks old, it's worth money, simple. So stop fucking moaning and rob the place.
I thought you said no staff, Bazza!
You get the guns?
You should see what they did to poor Gary.
Next time we do a job like this we gonna want more money, or we are going back to post offices and cars.
Where're the others?
There are no others.
Now, stop fucking around. The others, the old ones?
I don't know what you mean.
There were two old guns there; where are they?
Not in the cabinet there wasn't. There was a couple of old hammerlock muskets the butler was carrying; they were ours, and we sold 'em!
Well you just better unsell 'em, sharpish.
They were . . .
I am not fucking interested.
You fucking well have to get 'em!
We made a deal for everything inside the cabinet.
Inside, outfuckin'side. I don't give a shit, you get those guns because if you don't . . .
Yeah, Bazza, what?
You heard of Harry Lonsdale? Otherwise known as Backyouup witha Hatchet Harry, infamous for his removal of digits?
What's that?
A cocktail, you asked for a cocktail.
No, I asked you to give me a refreshing drink. I wasn't expecting a fucking rainforest; you could fall in love with an orangutan in that.
You want a pint, go to the pub.
I thought this was a pub.
It's a Samoan pub.
Well whatever it is, could you get your man to turn the TV down?
You ask him if you like, but I would leave him to it if I was you.
Ed can run fast, talk fast, eat fast, and play cards fast, but he's fucking slow when it comes to spotting the roz.
The reason he is called BACON is he spent so much of his youth in the police station that people thought he was one of them. But he is a big boy now and it is time to move on.
Hatchet has a colleague, a monster of a man: Barry the Baptist.
The Baptist got his name from drowning people for Hatchet.
Twentyfive from me, Tom, Soap and yourself; a hundred grand to the pound. You don't need to count it.
I still will, if you don't mind.
Because it's cheap like a budgie.
And nobody wants to live next door to the people that we live next to; a bit antisocial, you know.
Let me tell you about Hatchet Harry. Once there was this geezer called Smithy Robinson who worked for Harry. It was rumoured that he was on the take. Harry invited Smithy round for an explanation. Smithy didn't do a very good job. Within a minute Harry lost his temper and reached for the nearest thing at hand, which happened to be a fifteeninch black rubber cock. He then proceeded to batter poor Smithy to death with this; that was seen as a pleasant way to go . . . Hence, Hatchet Harry is a man you pay if you owe.
I'll think of something, don't worry.
I don't know how you've reached that conclusion.
They can't report they have had all their drugs and money nicked, can they?
Yes?
It's happening tomorrow morning. Get back here now.
Of course you will, sweetheart. This one, search this one. Ed finds the keys without any trouble.
I'll meet you in the van when you have finished with handsome there.
Bacon, see what we got.
Let's have a butcher's. Jesus, there's lots of everything. We've got god knows how much of this stinking weed; we've got a shit load of cash; and we've got a . . . traffic warden.
I think he's still alive. He's got claret coming out of him somewhere. What did they want with a traffic warden?
I dunno, but I don't think we need him. Dump him at the lights.
Scarface, I have watched Scarface. You want to know how to do a drug deal, you watch Scarface!
That inspires confidence, that does.
He'll care all right. That was going to be his money. Whether he cares about us is different. Pass your phone.
Think about what you're going to say, Ed; we are on thin ice.
Well?
Well what?
The traffic warden went to the morgue and recognized Dog and his lot so that put us sort of in the clear. They got no case against us because there is no evidence against us.
Apart from those shotguns.
And Tom took care of them.
When the old bastard is not playing cards he's chasing a thousand debts that illfated individuals owe for an array of reasons.
Sex and sleaze and antique shotguns are all deep and dear in Harry's stone cold heart.
The odds are one hundred to one so all we need is five grand.
I would rather put my money on a threelegged rocking horse. The odds are a hundred to one for a good reason, BACON . . . it won't win. So where is Ed with all the bright ideas?
At the bottom of a bottle and has been for two days; it's hit him hard.
It's hit us all hard!
Yeah, but he has got to tell his Dad he is about to lose his bar.
Drachmas, I hope. I would feel safer with a chicken drumstick. They could do more harm than good.
Jesus, Tom, do they work?
Soap is called Soap because he likes to keep his hands clean of any unlawful behaviour. He is proud of his job, and even more proud that it's legal.
He's a stroppy sod but he's got more balls than a golfer, only he doesn't know it. ' * Cut from completed film.
I'll kill him!
Stop fucking around, Tom, and think. What are we going to do?
So how long do you have to wait 'till you see a return?
Probably no longer than four weeks.
A month? So, my friend, what fucking good is that, if we need it in six . . . no, five days?
Well, it's still a good idea.
How much did you part with?
Seven hundred for the pair.
Is there something we should know about you, Soap?
I am not sure what's more worrying, the job or your past.
A what?
A traffic warden. Look, what's this?
I wanted to talk to you about that.
Well, talk.
Well not exactly, no; I got 'em sitting in the car, actually; I thought we might sell them back to the Greek, but I am having a bit of a problem getting hold of him.
My pocket. Check my pocket, will ya, honey?
Your pocket?
The latch is screwed up. Or the hinge.
Right.
Bitch! Look what you did!
Sorry, darling...Just thought a little humor would loosen us all up...you know?...
What's wrong, did you miss me?
Hardly.
Don't worry, darlin, I'm...
Clear for pickup.
Let's hope it holds.
Hey, Jonesy, who's the best power forward in the NBA...Jameson?
Jameson? Who're you trying to con?
What is it?
"Debbie Does Dallas"... Hell, it's in Russian. I can't read it...
No...he's really sick. I heard him last night. The company will take that into consideration...
Honey, the company don't give a flying fuck about "whys," they just look at the numbers and the contract says if we miss our quota they only got to pay us halfpay for the entire month.
Who were you talking to?
Sixpack...
How is he?
Sleeping. No sign of Doc, though. I'll check the control room. You look in the shower room...
What on earth's the matter with you?
I ought to smack your face!
What's wrong?
DeJesus...It's got him.
It needs blood?
Fucking great...You telling me we got a fucking dracula in here with us?
Cobb's cut...It was in him! It got Doc...
Oh man, that's just great...
What is it?
The good doctor signed our death warrant.
What is it?
The air's stopped.
The shack...
She's wondering what's happening. We're losing air faster than I thought.
Don't spend all day down there.
Don't fuckin' worry, I ain't.
Are you sure you saw something?
How many times I got to tell you. I saw a ship.
Well, why haven't they answered our flares?
Are you okay, Jonesy?
Tip top, Willie...tip top.
Who's the best power forward in the NBA...Jameson?
Jameson? Who are you trying to con...?
It saw us!
Answer them and quit kicking me!
I'm not touching you!
How far away is she?
Two hundred meters.
Excuse me, sir...Bowman's sick. She's downstairs in the infirmary.
The infirmary?...
Yes sir, ain't that where we usually go when we're sick?
We're simply concerned about her...proximity to...
We've got to get him to the infirmary.
What are you going to do to him?
I'm going to try to remove it.
I've got Cobbie downstairs watching the door.
Bigger than DeJesus? How?
It's had a meal.
It would explain the suction like appendages.
Like a leech.
The monster appears to be a genetic aberration...
No fuckin' lie...
...It has many traits of deep sea marine life...regeneration, scales, gills, even a period of dormancy... but the fact that it remembered where the plasma was stored, or where the communication wiring was, may imply that it has some other quality...
Fuck semantics, Doc! You saying its like part DeJesus, part Sixpack, part Bowman?!
I don't know. I'm guessing.
Burritos...Enchiladas...
Oh, gag, man, how can you eat that stuff?...
Typhoon?!
Twelve hours!
Serves his ass right to get it. Motherfucker brings that shit onboard. I hope his fucking ass rots in the sea and is shit upon by the fish.
'Fucker could have gotten us all killed.
How'd you do that?
What? That?...I've done this one before. You hungry? I'm hungry.
Getting some food.
Under there?
Look. Water.
Probably the plumbing. You gonna make me finish that puzzle by myself, or what?
Hey, man, you know that in Switzerlandand this country's the size of East L.A., okay?they speak 54 different dialects? Fiftyfour!
Who cares?
I do, man. That's a beautiful place. When I get out of here I'm going there. Find a nice little snow covered chalet, warm little woman, crackling fire
Hey, Cobb...Man, why don't you take off your shirt and pants, man? You should do that wearing what you're going to wear at the beach.
This is what I wear at the beach, goddamnit.
You guys are crazy. What the hell you play that stupid game for?
What game, Cobb?...I'm on my way to Nirvana...
You're on your way somewhere all right...the looney bin.
I'm on the way to the looney bin? Hey, man, I'm not the dude sun bathing in his clothes.
Bad as he is there's no way we can make our quota with out his sad self out there. You just can't do it.
He's tanking on us...
C'mon, Cobb...you're slacking...
I ain't, goddamnit...It's Jones!..
Hey!...I feel something. It's moving! He's alive!
I feel it, too...Someone's trying to get out.
It's Sixpack!
I'm going to kill it!
No way, Mister Beck! <u>No</u> <u>fucking way</u>! We just did a full shift, you can't call Shack duty on top of a full shift. It's a contract violation!
Whooo! Right on, Cobb! Let's hear it for our shop Steward!
Listen to it for Christsake.
Ah, it's just old, like me. You don't see the Doc opening me up every time I get a new creak in my joints...I say, as long as it's recycling the air let the next shift deal with it. But, 'long as we're here...
So that's all you do?...
Shhhh...don't tell no one. Job security.
Oooooh. Damn! Not so loud. Turn down the music.
What music? There ain't no music.
Yeah? How'd the kid hold up?
Pretty good. He sent them out videotaping outcrop.
"Routine," my ass! Ain't nothin' "routine" about no physical check up 10,000 feet down...especially when we're getting picked up the next day!
He didn't say it was a "routine checkup," he said it was a "routine <u>precaution</u>."
At least we get time and a half. That's in the contract.
Fuck double pay, man! I want out of here!
What's going on?
It's Hazy...It's got him! Stay here and don't let him out. I'm going to get the Doc.
You let him get away!
I ain't doing nothing for that thing without something to defend myself.
That <u>thing</u> happens to be my friend.
I say we should go get in the escape bubbles and get the hell out of here!
And hit the surface in the middle of a typhoon?...No, thank you. I'll take my chance down here.
What the?...
Russian.
You read Russian?
Russian, French, Italian, Spanish, Greek, German, a little Hindu, some Serbo Croat and a smattering of Swahili...standard premed background...
Bullshit.
...and a Russian grandmother...
What happened?
It...almost got you.
What was it?
Still bothering you?
Itches like hell.
Take it off and let me have a look.
I'm telling you, it's the suits!
Fuck the suits, it's the people monitoring them. It Doc had been there like he's supposed to it never would've happened!
Hey, Bo...when're you going to be off that thing? I want to find out tonight's NBA scores and check the weather.
The weather's good, I already checked, but I'll be off in a minute.
If he had his blinkers on
It wouldn't make any difference in there...He could be two feet away and on fire and she'd still not see him!
Who else...Sixpack.
The man is unbelievable... I say, leave him in there.
What about his suit? That's a million five the company's got to replace. They'll make somebody go get it.
Cute, DeJesus...Specimen cups?
Aw, loosen up, Bowman... Hey, Willie, I got one served up for you.
Yes sir...
Hook's on 24...
Made your million, yet?
Not yet.
How's TransOcean doing?
You got money in this tub?
I signedup for the stock option.
You take your money, too seriously, Bo.
You're damn right I do. Five years down here and I'll pull in more than 15 topside. I'm not down here for the fun, I'll tell you that.
Personal effects...
Timex...
Two hundred and fiftytwo tons of Magnesium and 15 tons of Sodium.
Sounds like a good week, Beck. In fact...I put your folder in front of the Vice President of District Operations last night...
Thank you, Martin.
Don't thank me, yet, but it is important to know where you're going and who your friends are... 'Know what I mean?
...as long as you know it's not in your contract.
I know that.
Well, suit yourself, then...its your decision... Ha ha...a little joke...suit yourself...
How's the weather for pickup tomorrow?
Beautiful.
Well, according to Maritime law, you, as commander of the Shack have the authority to dispose of the body. However, the company doesn't want you to do that.
What you don't understand is that my crew is in jeopardy.
But you don't have any proof at this point to assume that this disease is contagious, do you?
I'm not anxious to find out, either.
Beck, trust me. If the company felt that you or your crew were in any danger we would authorize an immediate emergency pickup. We could be there in a few hours.
Do it.
Unfortunately. We can't.
What're you saying? That we're not even going to be picked up tomorrow?
It shouldn't be a long delay.
But it's a delay! How long? A day? Two days?!
Twelve hours, no big deal. We should know something first thing in the morning. Don't worry.
Fortyeight hours!
I realize you must have gone through hell
Give me a readout, DeJesus.
Ahhhh!
How do you feel, DeJesus?
Okay.
Better let the Doc take a look at you, after dinner.
Okay, number 23's full.
Let's get it out of here and bring in a new one.
I can't tell you much about it, except that none of you show any symptoms.
And it killed Bo?
No...she killed herself.
Charge set?
Charge set. Backing off. C'mon Rover let's get out of here.
I'm going inside.
What's your air reading?
Twenty minutes...
Twenty minutes!...Who had tank duty?
Wait till you reach thirty five before you blow your suit...
Roger.
The internal monitors read normal.
Where's Doc?!
He's not at his station.
What about our quota?
You're only twentyfive tons off quota. Barring an unforeseen problem you should reach it easily on the last day. It's just a day off. You don't have to take it, I just thought it might help.
Something wrong, Cobb?
Uh..Excuse me sir, it's the air recirculating system, sir...
What's wrong with it?
...I'd really have to show it to you.
All right...
Excuse me, sir...
Is this a contract violation, Mr. Cobb?
No sir...I just wanted to know if you needed a hand?
Shut up, all of you.
Mr. Beck, the contract states that no body can be disposed of without authorization of
No!
It bit me!
Oh, God, she's out there...
Jones...come with me. Cobb, you and Doc check the rooms.
You did good...
What?
Today...with DeJesus. That was smart thinking to get him inside...
There probably wasn't anything wrong with his suit...
Still...you did the right thing.
I need more light on that, Four.
Roger... More light, Sixpack...
That's great. Now let's move 35 degrees southwest.
You screw around like that again and
Sixpack?
Why can't we pick up his signal?
That was a loud one wasn't it?
After a month of it you'd think I'd be used to it.
How's astronaut training?
Why? You going to give me hard time like the others?
No. I'm just being friendly.
Good...It's going good.
Whatever made you want to do a tour down here?
I need electrical field experience on my resume. Everything helps... Why are you here?
Everybody in corporate training serves a tour on the line. Sup posed to hone leadership skills or something.
Has it helped?
You think I should hang around more with the crew?
Well, I always heard you don't "learn" leadership, you earn it. How did you know they'd get into the vodka?
I guess I figured if I was in their shoes that's what I would've done.
Maybe you're more one of us than you think...sir.
What can we do?
Our only chance is to lure it to the Swamp and flush it like we did the other.
Shit! He sent them all.
The escape bubbles?
They know, don't they?
Yeah...I think they're just deciding what to do with us.
Maybe they already have.
What are you doing?
Seeing how my stock's doing...
We're on backup air.
How much time does that give us?
Less than an hour. It's ruptured an air duct.
Can't we fix it?
We made it!
Where's Jones?
It hit me! Where are they?!
I can't see them!
Cobb, Jones, I want you to do something about that damn rattle in the air system... Bowman and Sixpack...living quarters...
Shit...
Williams...get DeJesus' suit on the "sick rack" and do a diagnostics. Any other suit problems she should know about?
Look at my foot, sir! This bitch put a goddamn sea monster in my bunk!
How do you know it was Williams?
Huh? I...uh...uh...
All right, Sixpack, you and Williams are gonna pull water duty tomorrow
DeJesus! A readout!
He don't need a readout, man, he needs help!
Stay calm!
Doc eat already?
The good doctor hasn't showed yet.
I've been looking at the duty roster...at the shack hours outstanding...
Uh, oh...I see where this is going...
...all of you owe time and I thought tonight would be a good time to
Bullshit...I was just talking to him. I saw him move.
What?...
We're getting out of here just in time.
There's now a problem with the weather for pickup. There's a typhoon in our sector... ...We're going to be delayed twelve hours...
It's got Hazy!
What has?
One of those chunks of Sixpack! Like a big leech, with those teeth!...
I thought they were your friends?
Were, Doss <u>were</u>.
No, it's not going through. The intercom's busted. I thought DeJesus fixed that?
He did.
That's why there's a dead one on the ship. It ran out of blood.
What dead one on the ship?
We don't have much choice... without air, the internal pressure will fall and
Crunch...Implosion.
Jesus Christ...
Can you fix it?
No way...
Think! Can we stop it?! Block it up?! Shut down the line somewhere?! Think!
I am thinking, man! You think I want to die! I am thinking! I
I hit it. But I can't see it! Can you see it?!
No.
Go on!
No!
That's an order!
Fuck your orders!
Where the hell've you been?
I got hung up! Try this!
Your suit, Becky!
Just get in yours!
Are you planning on working tomorrow?
Well, I'll be on the golf course in the morning. Then, if I don't have any babies to deliver
We almost had an accident today. DeJesus' suit...
You mind if I take a look at this?
Be my guest.
What do you want me to say? That it all sounds mysterious?
These observers were doing something. A test...I think they sank that ship on purpose to cover up their mistakes.
What mistakes? Look, I think it's no big deal but if you want to find out why this ship sank have Maritime run a check.
What's wrong?
Pretty good imitation of a hangover and I ought to know.
Dead? This morning you said he had some skin disorder.
He did.
Well, how the hell does a skin rash kill you in eight hours?!
Here. Put this on. You examine him.
I'm not a doctor.
For this...you don't need to be.
The mask is because you think it might be...catching?
I don't know. I've been back and forth with Narragansett Naval all day, consulting with the best people in maritime medicine, the best people in viruses...
And?
And they didn't believe the symptoms I described...
Why Sixpack?
It could be a million things, something in the air, food.... But he went on that ship and so did Williams... I want to examine the crew.
Yeah...right...
They found this?
No. I think they isolated him in genetic engineering. Homo aquaticus...
Was there such a thing?
Danakil man?...one of our ancestors. Named for the Danakil Alps in Ethiopia.
Not exactly a big ocean country.
It was when it counted a couple of million years ago when the seas came in and drove us into the water. Most homo sapiens didn't make it...Danakil man... <u>adapted</u>.
Some say that's why we're basically hairless, for less water resistance, faster swimming speeds...
But what about those scales... or that leechlike thing that bit Cobb?
Why stop with just one aspect of marine life? Why not incorporate the best genetic components the ocean has to offer?...
Well, if they were perfecting an aquaman, then why's there a dead one onboard that Russian ship? Why isn't he out swimming around?
That it acquires intelligence from its victims?
Intelligence may not be the right word...
Be careful with it.
Don't worry, I don't want to give up any more.
Qui vive?
France.
Le mot d'ordre?
La victoire.
C'est bien, vous vous promenez bien matin, monsieur!
Il est necessaire d'etre vigilant, mon enfant.
Colonel Munro, I have known you as a gallant antagonist. I am happy to make your acquaintance as a friend.
And I to make yours, Monsieur le Marquis.
Please accept my compliments for the strong and skillful defense of your fortress. Under the command of a lesser man it would have fallen long ago given the superior numbers and material... mere chance has allowed me to array against you...
Monsieur le Marquis, I am a soldier, not a diplomat. You called this parlay for a reason.
You have already done everything which is necessary for the honor of your Prince. I will forever bear testimony that your resistance has been gallant and was continued as long as there was hope. But now, I beg you to listen to the admonitions of humanity. I beg you to consider my terms for your surrender.
However I may apprise such testimony from Monsieur Montcalm, Fort William Henry is strong and stands.
Honor that is freely accorded to courage, may be refused obstinacy... These hills afford to us every opportunity to reconnoiter your works and I am possibly as well acquainted with your weak condition as you are yourselves. Is Webb really en route and Montcalm hopes to take the fort by duplicity before British reinforcements arrive?
Perhaps the General's glasses can reach to the Hudson and he knows the size and imminence of the army of Webb...?
Such as...?
My master requires the fort be destroyed. But, for you and your comrades, there is no privilege that will be denied. None of your men will see the inside of a prison barge. They're free to go so long as they return to England and fight no more on this continent, and the civilian militia return to their farms.
Their arms?
They may leave the fortress fully armed, but with no ammunition... Other than that, ask what you wish.
The honors of war?
Granted.
My colors?
Carry them to England to your King with pride.
Allow me to consult with my officers.
I am deeply touched by such unusual and unexpected generosity... The fort is yours under the condition that we be given until dawn to bury our dead, prepare our men and women for their march and turn our wounded over to your surgeon.
Granted, Monsieur.
Why do hate the Grey Hair, Magua?
When the Grey Hair is dead, Magua will eat his heart. Before he dies Magua will put his children under the knife so the Grey Hair will see his seed is wiped out forever.
Is the hatchet buried between the English and my French father?
Yes.
Not a warrior has a scalp and the white men become friends.
My master owns these lands and your father has been ordered to drive off the English squatters. They have consented to go. So now he calls them enemies no longer.
Magua took the hatchet to color it with blood. It is still bright. Only when it is red, then it will be buried.
But so many suns have set since Le Renard struck the war post. Is he not tired?
Where is that sun?! It has gone behind the hill. It is dark and cold. It has set on his people, they are fooled and kill all the animals and sell all of their lands to enrich the European masters who are always greedy for more than they need. And Le Subtil is the son of his tribe. There have been many clouds and many mountains. But now he has come to lead his nation.
That Le Renard has the power to lead his people into the light, I know well.
That's where a lead bullet has torn you.
And this?
My son has been sadly injured. Who did this?
Magua slept hard in the English wigwams. And the sticks left their mark... Magua's village and lodges were burnt. Magua's children were killed by the English. Magua was taken as a slave by the Mohawks who fought for the Grey Hair. Magua's wife believed he was dead and became the wife of another. The Grey Hair was the father of all this. In time Magua became bloodbrother to Mohawk to become free. In his heart he always was Huron. And his heart will be whole again on the day when the Grey Hair and all his seed are dead!
My son Magua's pain is my pain.
Does the chief of the Canadas believe the English will keep the terms?
Munro would. But General Webb will not send their soldiers across the salt lake. Having let them go, I fear I will only fight the same men again when I move south. And yet, I cannot break the terms of the capitulation and sully the lilies of France...
Many things my French father cannot do, Magua can.
I must receive proof more conclusive than Mr. Poe's opinion before I weaken our defenses by allowing militia to withdraw.
Chingachgook's of the same opinion. Taken together, that's gospel. Your fort will stand or fall depending on Webb and reinforcements, not these colonials' presence.
I judge military matters, Captain Winthrop, not you.
We are not forgettin' Webb's promise!
British promises are honored. And the militia will not be released. Because I need more definite proof than this man's word!
Nathaniel's word been good on the frontier a long time before you got here!
This interview's over! The militia stays!
Does the rule of English law no longer govern? Has it been replaced by absolutism?
We must... stop... soon. Women are... tired. You... understand?
I understand. This is not good place to stop. Two leagues from here. No water 'til then. That where we stop. Better place.
No. Stop in the glade just ahead! When the ladies are rested, we will proceed. Do you understand?
"Magua understand paleface is a dog to his women. When his women want to eat, he lay aside his tomahawk to feed their laziness."
Excuse me. What did you say?
Magua say: "Yes. Good idea."
If Magua give women to Yengeese soldiers... will receive many gifts.
Gifts?
Three, four oxen... much wampum.
Wampum?
Yes.
Does Yengeese Major have property across salt sea?
Yes.
Yengeese Major give all property to Magua. Magua give Yengeese Major much wampum, many gifts, maybe three, four oxen.
Gold could be arranged.
For Munro children?
Yes.
How much gold has the master of the Yengeese?
The King? The King has mountains of gold!
What is enough?
Heart. Give Magua new heart.
Sergeant! Form three ranks!
Sir! Upon the center, wheel to the left about! March! Rear ranks, proper distance! Front ranks, take your distance! March! Halt! Make ready!
First rank! Second rank! Present arms!
Fire!!!
Advance, Sergeant Major!
Sir!!! Third rank! Twelve paces! Forward march!
Shoulder arms! Present!
Fire!!!
Sergeant Major!
Sir!
Thank you, Sergeant Major. Thank the men.
Attenhut!
Men are to stay in file, Sergeant Major!
Yes sir!
Right  about face! March! First rank present!
Fire!
Does Webb not even know we are besieged?
Sir. Webb has no idea. And he certainly does not know to send reinforcements!
What happened to you?
Ambush... on the George Road. This Magua led us into it. ...eighteen killed. It's these men who saved us. They guided us here...
Thank you. How can I reward you?
What a place for them...
Might I enquire after the situation, sir, given that I've seen of the French engineering from the ridge above?
Logistics are his guns are bigger than mine and he has more of them. They keep our heads down while his sappers make thirty yards of trench a day. His thirteen inch mortars have a two hundred yard range, so when they're close enough, they'll move them in, lob explosive rounds over our walls and pound us to dust. They look to be three hundred yards out. Bloody murderers. You have three days.
Webb's not in Albany. He marched the 33rd to Fort Edward two days ago.
Webb's at Edward?
Yes, sir.
Only twelve miles away! He could be here day after tomorrow. Find your man, sir! Captain Beams will give you the message.
Things were done. Nobody was spared...
Terrible feature of war in the Americas. Best to keep your sight fixed on our duty.
Not with enough certainty to outweigh British interests in this fort.
And who empowered these provincials to pass judgment upon England's policies in her own colonies? To come and go without so much as a "by your leave."
This is the signature of Webb. And I know the temper of our men. Rather than spend the war in a French prison hulk in Hudson Bay, they'd fight to the end.
You have heard your answer, Monsieur le Marquis.
I have lived to see two things I never expected. An Englishman afraid to support a friend. And a Frenchman too honest to profit by that advantage.
General Webb can burn in hell. We'll go back and dig our graves behind the ramparts! Our mission is to fight.
Death and honor are sometimes thought to be the same. Today I have learned that they are not.
Sir!
The decision is final.
I didn't experience anything so surprising from Bristol to Albany as what I witnessed here today.
And what is that?
The Crown "negotiating" the terms of service?
I know. One has to give Americans "reasons" and make agreements to get them to do anything at all. Tiring, isn't it? But that's the way of it here.
I thought British policy is 'Make the World... England', sir.
You will take command of the 62nd Regiment of Foot. At Fort William Henry under Colonel Munro. I will march the 33rd to Fort Edward.
Sir!... Might I inquire if General Webb has heard from Colonel Munro's daughters? I was to rendezvous with them in Albany and escort them to the fort.
Yes. You may. You there. What does Munro call you? The "Scotsman" has sent one of his Indian allies to guide you.
The Scotsman's daughters are at the Poltroon's house. A company of the 33rd will accompany you and Magua will show you the way.
By your leave, sir.
Help ourselves to a few horns from your powder stores.
What else?
A man, here, can make a run straight through to Webb.
...not enough time to get to Albany and back with reinforcements...
Yes, Mr. Poe? So?
It was a war party. It means they're on the attack up and down the frontier.
Many men here, their homes are in the path.
That's all, sir.
That judgment is not more important than their right under agreement with Webb to defend their farms & families... Major Heyward was at John Cameron's. He saw what it was.
What did you see, Major?
I'll have none of that! Montcalm is a soldier and a gentleman. Not a butcher.
Easy for you to suppose. While it is their women and children, not yours, alone in their farms!
You forget yourself!
Let the children of the dead Colonel Munro go free and take the fire out of the English anger over the murder of their helpless ones.
Our father, Montcalm, is greater than the Yengeese in the arts of war. The Huron do not fear English anger.
Wise one, the French fathers made peace and swore to their honor not to break the friendship. Magua broke it. It is false that the French would not be friends, still, to the Huron.
So the Huron are the servants of the French? To do what the French are shamed to do?
No. Huron serve no one. The French father believes he fooled Magua because he is so proud of his cleverness, he is blind. But it is the Huron path that Magua walks down, not the French one... Now, Les Francais, also, fear Huron. That is good. When the Huron is strong from their fear, we will make the terms of trade with Les Francais. And we will trade as the white man trades. Take land from the Abnakes; fur from the Osage, Sauk & Fox. And make the Huron great. Over other tribes. No less than the whites, as strong as the whites.
Magua would use the ways of Les Francais and the Yengeese...
The red man put down the bow, picked up the fire stick and became the best warrior in the forest. Yes. It is the only way.
Would the Huron make his Algonquin brothers foolish with brandy and steal his lands to sell them for gold to the white man? Would the Huron have greed for more land than a man can use? Like Francais Black Robes do? Would Huron kill tribes with disease? Would the Huron fool Seneca into taking all the animals in the forest for beads & brandy? But sell the fur to the white man for gold?... Those are the ways of Yengeese and Les Francais masters. Are they the ways of Huron men who hunt & work the land? Or of dogs? ...Magua's heart is twisted. He would make himself into what twisted him. A Dog, become Master of Dogs. But are Hurons dogs? ...Magua's way is false. It is like the white sickness. Magua's way will bring only sadness and shame. Is there another way? I don't know. I am Nathaniel of the Yengeese; Hawkeye, adopted son of Chingachgook, of the Mohican people... Let the children of the dead Munro go free... I speak the truth.
That we did. John. But the horicane is near trapped out.
Tradin' your skins in Castleton?
So what is it, Jack? What brings you up here?
A French & Indian army out of Fort Carillon's heading south to war against the English. I'm here to raise this county's militia to aid the British defense.
Folks here goin' to join in that fight?
We'll see in the morning...
I believe if they set aside their law as and when they wish, their law no longer has rightful authority over us. All they have over us is tyranny, then. And I'll stay here no longer. No force on earth will keep me here... Anyone caught leavin' the fort could be shot. So each man make your own decision... Those who are goin', be back here in an hour.
Out the northern sallyport. Strike for the east side of the swamp until you clear the French picket line. Head north over the ridge, then come about southeast and fork left in Little Meadow and you're free of the outpost and skirmishers...
I'll cover them from the top of the casement.
You're not coming with us?
Got a reason to stay.
That reason wear a blue dress and work in the surgery?
It does and it is a better lookin' reason than you, Jack Winthrop. Push hard, 'cos you got to clear the French outpost by dawn. Good luck, Jack.
It should be enough to remind you France is the enemy.
Your enemy...
What did you say?
I said... France is your enemy. Not ours.
Really? Do you want them to overrun all New York colony?
First place, you started it with the French over furtrapping claims to the head waters of the Ohio. Now you're sayin' these people have a fight on their hands...
Will you men help us stop the French?
... and while they are cooped up in your fort, what if the French send war parties to raid their homes?
You do what you want with your own scalp. Do not be tellin' us what to do with ours.
You, sir! You call yourself a loyal subject?
...No...Do not call myself much of a subject at all.
Your wounded should try walkin' back to Albany. They'll never make a passage north.
We were headed...
...Fort William Henry.
How far is it, scout?
Day and a half Where did you get... the guide?
Colonel Munro sent him. He was one of our Mohawk allies.
He is Huron and nothing else. Why would he want to murder the girl?
What?!
Dark haired...
Miss Cora Munro. He never set eyes on her before today.
No blood vengeance? No reproach or insult?
Of course not! And how is it you were nearby?
Came across the war party, tracked 'em.
Then you're assigned to Fort William Henry?
No.
Fort Edward, then?
No. Headin' west. To Cantuckee.
I thought all our colonial scouts were in the militia?
I ain't your "scout". And I am in no damn militia.
Then you are one of those who would allow England to fight alone while she protects you from France?
England does not protect me and does not war against France on our account. She uses us to war against France on her own account... of greed for land and furs.
I owe you gratitude or I'd call you out!
Do not let gratitude get in the way...
Who were these people?
Ottawa!
Excuse me...
And if English law cannot be trusted, maybe these people would do better makin' a peace with the French!
That is sedition! Treason!
That is the truth!
I ought to have you whipped from this fort!
Major! Some day I think you and I are gonna have a serious disagreement.
How long?
Only chance we got is... ... to get more distance on 'em and go to ground!
Head for... for the white water.
Do you hear me, sir! If you ever fall... into British hands... What white water?
Where do we go from here?
We don't.
I don't understand!
This is it, as far as we can go... If we're lucky, they'll be figurin' we can't have come this way and must've beached our canoes and headed cross land. If we're very lucky, they'll figure we went over the falls.
Then what?
Then we take the south rim down the mountain and it's 12 miles cross country to Fort Edward.
And if we're unlucky?
You will have to forego the pleasure of hangin' me.
Any powder?
: Only one or two loads.
I'm embarrassed to be so indecisive... after so long apart and after you've traveled so far...
And by sea!
You still have an aversion to the water?
Aversion? No... "Hatred"... "Loathing"...
Dear Duncan, my affection is as towards a closest friend. Alice and I depend on you and respect you immensely... I wish they did, but my feelings don't go beyond that. Do you see?
Isn't respect and friendship, a reasonable basis for a man and woman to be joined? And all else may grow in time...?
Some say that's the way of it.
"Some"?
Cousin Eugenie, my father, but...
Cora, in my heart, I know once we're joined, we'll be the happiest couple in England. Let those whom you trust, your father, help settle what's best for you. In view of your indecision, why not rely on their advice and judgment as well as mine?
Will you consider that?
Yes. Yes, I will.
My God, Alice.
It can be dangerous...
One called Magua arrived.
He delivered no such message.
Cora, I adore you and, when we come together, we will be the happiest couple in England... I am certain of that. More than ever before. I believe you must trust the judgment of others who hold your welfare so close to their hearts...
Duncan... Duncan, I promised you an answer. You have complimented me with your persistence and patience... But the decision I've come to is I'd rather make the gravest of mistakes than surrender my own judgment.
I see...
I am sorry, Duncan...
beyond the periphery of men, staring at him.
Munro is expecting him to be the good soldier in defense of British military interests.
He knew the penalty for breaking regulations. He ought to pay without sending you to beg.
You know he wouldn't send me...! You misrepresented what you saw and caused this. I, too, was at that farm. It was as he said...
They do not live their lives "by your leave." ...They hack it out of the wilderness with their own two hands, burying their dead and their children along the way.
You are defending him because you've become infatuated with him.
Yes. Go ahead.
What the bloody hell plan is this?
... compliments, Mr. Poe. Take her and get out.
What are they doing to Duncan? Duncan!
Told you to stay away from this hell hole! Why did you disobey me?
When? How?
My letter...
There was none!
What?
There was no letter.
I sent three men to Webb!
The man encouraged the colonials to desert in this very room, in my presence. He is guilty of sedition and must be tried and hanged like any other criminal, regardless of what he did for my children.
He knew the consequences. And he stayed. Are those the actions of a criminal? ...Duncan, do something.
But the man is guilty of sedition and subject to military justice and beyond pardon.
"Justice"? If that's "justice"..., then the sooner French guns blow the English army out of America, the better it will be for these people.
You do not know what you are saying!
Yes I do! I know exactly what I am saying. And if it is sedition, then I am guilty of sedition, too!
Though they are strangers, they are at least entitled to a Christian burial!
Let us go, miss.
I will not. I have seen the face of war before, Mr. Poe, but never war made on women and children. And almost as cruel is your indifference.
Why didn't you bury those people?
Anyone lookin' to pick up our trail, would see it as a sign of our passing...
You knew them.
You were acting for our benefit. And I apologize. I misunderstood you.
Well that is to be expected. My father...
Your "father"?
Chingachgook. He warned me about people like you.
He did?
Yes. He said... "do not try to make them understand you."
What?!
Yes. And "do not try to understand them. That is because they are a breed apart and they make no sense..."
The Ottawa are gone.
Why did they turn back?
"We're a breed apart and we make no sense"...?
In your particular case, miss, I would make some allowance...
Thank you so much.
They buried my ma & pa and my sisters. And Chingachgook  who found me with two French trappers  raised me up as his own.
I'm sorry.
I do not remember them. I was one or two.
How did you learn English?
My father sent Uncas & I to Reverend Wheelock's school when I was ten. So we would know both worlds... though we were told only bother learning readin' & arithmetic from yours.
And what were the consequentialities of European culture you didn't bother with?
The Bible. Monarchy. Many wrong ideas about the government of men. My father's people already know each man is his own nation. And only he can have dominion over himself. Not kings. No man is better than any other man.
In London those radical ideas could land you in Newgate prison. Why were those people living in this defenseless place...?
'Cos frontier land's the only land affordable to poor people. So after seven years indentured service in Virginia, they headed out here where they are beholden to none and not livin' by another's leave... Their name was Cameron. John & Alexandria.
You are right, Mr. Poe. We do not understand what is happening here. And it is not as I imagined it would be, thinking of it in Boston and London...
Sorry to disappoint you...
On the contrary. It is more deeply stirring... to my blood... ...than any imagining could possibly have been...
Much further?
Top of this ridge. Fort and Lake George are downhill of it.
Mr Poe?
Miss. May I?
What are you looking at, Mr. Poe?
Why, I am looking at you, Miss.
They're going to hang you. Why didn't you leave when you had the chance?
Because what I am interested in is right here...
What would you have me do?
Webb's reinforcements will arrive or not. If they do not arrive, the fort will fall. If that happens, stay close to your father. The French will protect the officer class among the English.
No. I will find you.
Do not. Promise me.
What is it?
I don't know. Whatever happens you stay with your father. You stay among the officers.
Are we safe?
Maybe...
Our father? Did you see my father?
In this there is a chance. If I live, I can try to free you. If we don't go, there is no powder, there's too many of them. Though my heart would keep me here, in that there is no chance. None. I can do nothing. Do you understand?
Yes. I want you to go.
Listen. Submit. You hear me? You're strong. You stay alive. I will find you... no matter how far, how long it takes...
...never doubt what you are doing.
And my compliments to you...
Alice?
Will you go back to England?
I have nothing to go back for.
Where will we go?
Winter with the Delaware, my father's cousins. And in the spring, cross the Ohio and look for land to settle with my father in a new place called Cantuckee.
My God, you've grown up.
We leave in the morning?!
Yes, miss.
I won't sleep tonight. What an adventure! I absolutely cannot wait to return to Portman Square, having laid eyes upon the fullblooded, red men in the wild!
Are you alright?
Can we rest soon?
Absolutely.
The men of the regiment will fetch water from the lake, build fires and provide every comfort you desire, Alice...
Duncan, you are absolutely gallant. If Cora doesn't marry you, I shall.
Time, Pilch! My move.
No fair! You lured him with produce.
Of course it counts. How do you play?
Officer Starling. Welcome back.
Your West Virginia specimen gave us quite a bit of trouble, but I finally managed to narrow his species through chaetaxy  studying the skin.
I'm the one who found his perforating proboscis! Are you wearing a gun, right now? Ooh, cool! Can I see it? Can I?
Just ignore him. He's not a Ph.D.
Better known to his friends as the Death'shead Moth...
The Latin name comes from two rivers in Hell. Your man  he drops these girls into rivers, every time. Didn't I read that?
I won't waste your time and Catherine's time bargaining for petty privileges. Clarice Starling and that awful Jack Crawford have wasted far too much already. I only pray they haven't doomed the poor girl... Let me help you now, and I'll trust you when it's all over.
You have my word. Paul?
What...?
Did you breastfeed her?
Yes... I did.
Toughened your nipples, didn't it...? Six foot one, strongly built, about 190 pounds. Hair brown, eyes pale blue. He'd be about 35 now. He said he lived in Philadelphia, but may have lied. That's really all I can remember, Senator  but if I think of any more, I'll let you know.
Let's go with it.
Senator Martin...! You can't trust Jack Crawford or Clarice Starling. It's such a game with these people. They're determined to get the arrest for themselves. The "collar," I think they say.
Thank you, Doctor. I'll keep it in mind.
Oh, and Senator...? Love you suit.
I'm not having a witch hunt here, Mr. Crawford! Our patients are decent, nonviolent people with a real problem.
Dr. Danielson, the man we want was never your patient. It would be someone you refused because he tries to conceal a record of criminal violence. Please, Doctor  time is eating us up. Just show me the ones you've turned away.
Examination and interview materials are confidential. We've never violated an applicant's trust, and we never will.
You want to see a violation? This is a violation...
Her name is Kimberly Jane Emberg, she was just ID'd. I met her on a slab in West Virginia. And sometime tomorrow, or tomorrow night, he's going to do the same thing to Catherine Martin.
That's a childish, bullying stunt, Mr. Crawford. I was a battlefield surgeon, so you can put away your picture.
Look... search your own records, if you prefer. You can do it a lot faster than us, anyway. If we find Buffalo Bill through your information, I'll suppress it. Nobody has to know this hospital cooperated.
I doubt very much that the FBI or any other government agency can keep a secret, Mr. Crawford. Truth will out... And then what? Will you give Johns Hopkins a new identity? Put a big pair of sunglasses on this building, and a funny nose?
Oh, that's clever, Dr. Danielson. Very humorous. You like the truth? Try this. He kidnaps young women and kills them and rips their skin off. We don't want him to do that anymore. If you don't help me, just as fast as you can, then the Justice Department is going to ask publicly for a court order, We'll ask twice a day, just in time for the morning and evening news. And each one of our press conferences will focus on Dr. Danielson, over at Johns Hopkins, and how we're still hoping for his cooperation. And every time there's any news on the case  when Catherine Martin floats, when the next one floats, and the next one  why, we'll just issue another press release about good ol' Dr. Danielson, over at Johns Hopkins  complete with all his humorous fucking remarks.
It may be that  I could confer with my colleagues on this. And get back to you.
Would you, Doctor? That would be so kind.
Doctor, we have a hard problem in psychological profiling. I want to ask for your help with a questionnaire.
"We" being the Behavioral Science Unit, at Quantico. You're one of Jack Crawford's, I expect.
I am, yes.
May I see your credentials?
That expires in one week. You're not real FBI, are you?
I'm  still in training at the Academy.
Jack Crawford sent a trainee to me?
We're talking about psychology, Doctor, not the Bureau. Can you decide for yourself whether or not I'm qualified?
Mmmmm... That's rather slippery of you, Officer Starling. Sit. Please.
Now then. What did Miggs say to you? "Multiple Miggs," in the next cell. He hissed at you. What did he say?
He said  "I can smell your cunt."
I see. I myself cannot. You use Evyan skin cream, and sometimes you wear L'Air du Temps, but not today. You brought your best bag, though, didn't you?
Yes.
It's much better than your shoes.
Maybe they'll catch up.
I have no doubt of it.
Did you do those drawings, Doctor?
Yes. That's the Duomo, seen from the Belvedere. Do you know Florence?
All that detail, just from memory...?
Memory, Officer Starling, is what I have instead of view.
Dr. Lecter, if you'd please consider 
No, no, no. You were doing fine, you'd been courteous and receptive to courtesy, you'd established trust with the embarrassing truth about Miggs, and now this hamhanded segue into your questionnaire. It won't do. It's stupid and boring.
I'm only asking you to look at this, Doctor. Either you will or you won't.
Jack Crawford must be very busy indeed if he's recruiting help from the student body. Busy hunting that new one, Buffalo Bill... Such a naughty boy! Did Crawford send you to ask for my advice on him?
No, I came because we need 
How many women has he used, our Bill?
Five... so far.
All flayed...?
Partially, yes. But Doctor, that's an active case, I'm not involved. If 
Do you know why he's called Buffalo Bill? Tell me. The newspapers won't say.
I'll tell you if you'll look at this form. It started as a bad joke in Kansas City Homicide. They said... this one likes to skin his humps.
Witless and misleading. Why do you think he takes their skins, Officer Starling? Thrill me with your wisdom.
It excites him. Most serial killers keep some sort of trophies.
I didn't.
No. You ate yours.
Oh, Officer Starling... do you think you can dissect me with this blunt little tool?
No. I only hoped that your knowledge 
You see a lot, Dr. Lecter. But are you strong enough to point that high powered perception at yourself? How about it...? Look at yourself and write down the truth. Or maybe you're afraid to.
You're a tough one, aren't you?
Reasonably so. Yes.
And you'd hate to think you were common. My, wouldn't that sting! Well you're far from common, Officer Starling. All you have is the fear of it. Now please excuse me. Good day.
And the questionnaire...?
A census taker once tried to test me. I ate his liver with some fava beans and a nice chianti... Fly back to school, little Starling.
I would not have had that happen to you. Discourtesy is  unspeakably ugly to me.
Then please  do this test for me.
No. But I will make you happy... I'll give you a chance for what you love most, Clarice Starling.
What's that, Dr. Lecter?
Advancement, of course. Go to Split City. See Miss Mofet, an old patient of mine. MOFET... Now go. Go. I don't think Miggs could manage again so soon, even if he is crazy  do you?
Your bleeding has stopped.
How did  It's nothing. A scratch.
Why don't you ask me about Buffalo Bill?
Why? Do you know something about him?
I might if I saw the case file. You could get that for me.
Why don't you tell me about "Miss Mofet?" You wanted me to find him. Or do I have to wait for the lab?
His real name is Benjamin Raspail. A former patient of mine, whose romantic attachments ran to, shall we say, the exotic...? I didn't kill him, merely tucked him away. Very much as I found him, in that ridiculous car, in his own garage, after he's missed three appointments. You'd have him under "Missing Person"  which, in poor Raspail's case, could hardly be more true.
If you didn't kill him, then who did?
Who can say...? Best thing for him, really. His therapy was going nowhere.
Wouldn't it have been easier to just leave him for the police to find?
And have them clomping about in my life? Oh dear, no... At that time I still had certain private amusements of my own. How did you feel when you saw him, Clarice? May I call you Clarice?
Scared, at first. Then  exhilarated.
Ahhh... Why?
Because you weren't wasting my time.
Do you have something you use, when you need to get up your courage? Memories, tableaux... scenes from your early life?
I don't know. Next time I'll have to check.
Jack Crawford is helping your career, isn't he? Apparently he likes you. And you like him, too.
I never thought about it.
Your first lie to me, Clarice. How sad. Tell me  do you think Crawford wants you, sexually? True, he's much older, but  do you think he visualizes... scenarios, exchanges...? Fucking you?
That doesn't interest me, Doctor. And it's the sort of thing Miggs would ask.
Not anymore. Surely the odd confluence of events hasn't escaped you, Clarice. Crawford dangles you before me. Then I give you a bit of help. Do you think it's because I like to look at you, and imagine how good you would taste...?
I don't know. Is it?
Or doesn't this all begin to suggest to you a kind of... negotiation? There's something Crawford can give me, and I want to trade for it. I even wrote to him, offering my help. But he hates me, so he won't deal directly.
Punishment, you see. For Miggs. Just like that gospel program. When you leave, they'll turn the volume way up. Chilton does enjoy his petty torments.
Who killed Raspail, Doctor...? You know, don't you?
I've been in this room for eight years, Clarice. I know they will never, ever let me out while I'm alive. What I want is a view. I want a window where I can see a tree, or even water. I want to be in a federal institution, away from Chilton  and I want a view. I'll give good value for it. Crawford could do that for me, but he won't. You persuade him.
Who killed your patient?
Oh, a very naughty boy. Someone you and Jack Crawford are most anxious to meet.
Buffalo Bill...? Bill killed him, all those years ago...? That's impossible.
I was your choice, Dr. Lecter. You chose to speak to me. Would you prefer someone else now? Or perhaps you don't think you can help us.
That is both impudent and untrue... Tell me, how did you feel when you viewed our Billy's latest effort? Or should I say, his "nexttolatest"?
By the book, he's a sadist.
Life's too slippery for books, Clarice. Typhoid and swans came from the same God. Tell me, Miss West Virginia  was she a large girl?
Yes.
Big through the hips. Roomy.
They all were.
Mmm. And what else...?
She had an insect deliberately inserted in her throat. That hasn't been made public yet. We don't know what is means.
Was it a butterfly?
A moth... How did you predict that?
I'm waiting for your offer, Clarice. Enchant me.
"Plum Island Animal Disease Research Center." Sounds charming.
That's just part of the island. It has a very nice beach. Terns nest there.
Terns... If I help you, Clarice, it will be "turns" with us, too. Quid pro quo. I tell you things, you tell me things. Not about this case, though  about yourself. Yes or no? Yes or no, Clarice. Catherine is waiting. Ticktock, ticktock...
Go, Doctor.
What's your worst memory of childhood? Quicker than that. I'm not interested in your worst invention.
The death of my father.
Tell me. Don't lie, or I'll know.
He was a town marshal... one night he surprised two burglars, coming out the back of a drugstore... They shot him.
Killed outright?
No. He was strong, he lasted almost a month. My mother  died when I was very young, so my father had become  the whole world to me... After he left me, I had nobody. I was ten years old.
You're very frank, Clarice. I think  it would be quite something to know you in private life.
Quid pro quo, Doctor.
The significance of the moth is change. Caterpillar into cocoon into beauty... Billy wants to change, too, Clarice. But there's the problem of his size, you see. Even if he were a woman, he'd have to be a big one...
Dr. Lecter, there's no correlation in the literature between transsexualism and violence. Transsexuals are very passive.
Clever girl. You're so close to the way you're going to catch him  do you realize that?
No. Tell me why.
After your father's death, you were orphaned. What happened next? I don't imagine the answer's on those secondrate shoes, Clarice.
I went to live with my mother's cousin and her husband in Montana. They had a ranch.
A cattle ranch?
Horses  and sheep...
How long did you live there?
Two months.
Why so briefly?
I  ran away...
Why, Clarice? Did the rancher fuck you?
No.
Did he try to?
No...! Quid pro quo, Doctor.
Billy's not a real transsexual, but he thinks he is. He tries to be. He's tried to be a lot of things, I expect.
You said  I was very close to the way we'd catch him.
There are three major centers for transsexual surgery: Johns Hopkins, the University of Minnesota, and Columbus Medical center. I wouldn't be surprised if Billy has applied for sex reassignment at one or all of them, and been rejected.
On what basis would they reject him?
The personality inventories would trip him up. Rorschach, Wechsler, HouseTreePerson... He wouldn't test like a real transsexual.
How would he test?
That's enough, I think. Happy hunting. Oh, and Clarice  next time you will tell me why you ran away. Shall I summarize?
Yes, Doctor. Please.
I thought you might want your drawings back... Just until you get your view.
How very thoughtful... Or did Crawford send you here for one last wheedle  before you're both booted off the case?
Nobody sent me. I came on my own.
Dr. Lecter, you find out everything. You couldn't have talked with this "William Rubin", even once, and come out knowing so little about him... You made him up, didn't you?
Clarice... you're hardly in a position to accuse me of lying.
I think you were telling me the truth in Baltimore  or starting to. Tell me the rest now.
I've studied the case file, have you...? Everything you need to find him is right in these pages. Whatever his name is.
Then tell me how.
First principles, Clarice. Simplicity. Read Marcus Aurelius. Of each particular thing, ask: What is it, in itself, what is its nature...? What does he do, this man you seek?
He kills w
No! That's incidental.
What is the first and principal thing he does, what need does he serve by killing?
Anger, social resentment, sexual frus
No, he covets. That's his nature. And how do we begin to covet, Clarice? Do we seek out things to covet? Make an effort to answer.
No. We just 
No. Precisely. We begin by coveting what we see every day. Don't you feel eyes moving over your body, Clarice? I hardly see how you couldn't. And don't your eyes move over the things you want?
All right, then tell me how 
No. It's your turn to tell me, Clarice. You don't have any more vacations to sell, on Anthrax Island. Why did you run away from that ranch?
Dr. Lecter, when there's time I'll 
We don't reckon time the same way, Clarice. This is all the time you'll ever have.
Later, listen, I'll 
I'll listen now. After your father's murder, you were orphaned. You were ten years old. You went to live with cousins, on a sheep and horse ranch in Montana. And  ?
And  one morning I just  ran away...
Not "just," Clarice. What set you off? You started what time?
Early. Still dark.
Then something woke you. What? Did you dream...? What was it?
I heard a strange sound...
What was it?
What did you do?
Got dressed without turning on the light. I went downstairs... outside...
They were slaughtering the spring lambs?
Yes...! They were screaming.
So you ran away...
No. First I tried to free them... I opened the gate of their pen  but they wouldn't run. They just stood there, confused. They wouldn't run...
But you could. You did.
I took one lamb. And I ran away, as fast as I could...
Where were you going?
I don't know. I had no food or water. It was very cold. I thought  if I can even save just one... but he got so heavy. So heavy...
I didn't get more than a few miles before the sheriff's car found me. The rancher was so angry he sent me to live at the Lutheran orphanage in Bozeman. I never saw the ranch again...
But what became of your lamb? Clarice...?
You still wake up sometimes, don't you? Wake up in the dark, with the lambs screaming?
Yes...
Do you think if you saved Catherine, you could make them stop...? Do you think, if Catherine lives, you won't wake up in the dark, ever again, to the screaming of the lambs? Do you...?
Yes! I don't know...! I don't know.
Thank you, Clarice.
Tell me his name, Dr. Lecter.
Dr. Chilton... I believe you know each other?
Brave Clarice. Will you let me know if ever the lambs stop screaming?
Yes. I'll tell you.
Promise...? Then why not take your case file? I won't be needing it anymore.
Starling.
Well, Clarice, have the lambs stopped screaming...?
Your lambs are still for now, Clarice, but not forever... You'll have to earn it again and again, this blessed silence. Because it's the plight that drives you, and the plight will never end.
Dr. Lecter 
I have no plans to call on you, Clarice, the world being more interesting with you in it. Be sure you extend me the same courtesy.
You know I can't make that promise.
Goodbye, Clarice... You looked  so very lovely today, in your blue suit.
They said she was just rags, like somebody 
Stacy, did Fredrica ever mention a man named Jamie Gumb? Or John Grant? Do you think she could've had a friend you didn't know about?
No way. She had a guy, I'da known, believe me. Sewing was her life, she was really great at it. Poor Freddie.
Did you ever work with her?
Oh sure, me'n Pam Malavesi used to help her do alterations for old Mrs. Lippman. Lots of people worked for her, she had the business from all these retail stores? But she was like, totally old, it was more'n she could handle.
Where does Mrs. Lippman live? I'd like to talk to her.
She died. She went to Florida to retire, like two years ago? She dies own there.
Is that a pretty good job, FBI agent?
I think so.
You get to travel around and stuff? I mean, better places then this?
Sometimes you do.
Freddie was so happy for me when I got this job. This  toaster giveaways, and Barry Manilow on the speakers all day  she thought this was really hot shit. What did she know, big dummy...
What do you do when you're not detecting, Officer Starling?
I try to be a student, Dr. Pilcher.
Ever get out for cheeseburgers and beer? The amusing house wine...?
Not lately. But maybe someday.
And there's no way  no natural way  these could've wound up in the bodies?
They live in Malaysia. In this country, they'd have to be specially raised, from imported eggs.
Dr. Lecter...
Starling, Clarice M., good morning.
Good morning, Mr. Crawford.
Your instructors tell me you're doing well. Top quarter of the class.
I hope so. They haven't posted anything.
A job's come up and I thought about you. Not really a job, more of  an interesting errand. Walk me to my car, Starling.
We're trying to interview all of the serial killers now in custody, for a psychobehavioral profile. Could be a big help in unsolved cases. Most of them have been happy to talk to us. They have a compulsion to boast, these people... Do you spook easily, Starling?
Not yet.
You see, the one we want most refuses to cooperate. I want you to go after him again today, in the asylum.
Who's the subject?
The psychiatrist  Dr. Hannibal Lecter.
Yes, well... Okay, right. I'm glad for the chance, sir, but  why me?
You're qualified and available. And frankly, I can't spare a real agent right now.
Now. I want your full attention, Starling. Are you listening to me?
Yes sir.
Be very careful with Hannibal Lecter. Dr. Chilton at the asylum will go over the physical procedures used with him. Do not deviate from them, for any reason. You tell him nothing personal, Starling. Believe me, you don't want Hannibal Lecter inside your head... Just do your job, but never forget what he is.
And what is that, sir?
I've read your interim memo on Lecter. You sure you've left nothing out?
It's all there, sir, practically verbatim.
Every word, Starling? Every gesture?
Right down to the kleenex I used. Sir, why? Is something wrong?
He mentioned a name, at the very end. "Mofet..." Any followup on her?
I spent all evening on the mainframe. Lecter altered or destroyed most of his patient histories, prior to capture. No record of anyone named Mofet. But "Split City" sounded like it might have have something to do with divorce. I tracked it down in the library's catalogue of national yellow pages. It's a ministorage facility outside Baltimore, where Lecter had his practice.
Well? Why aren't you there right now?
Sir, that's a field job. It's outside the scope of my assignment. And I've got a test tomorrow on 
Do you recall my instructions to you, Starling? What were they?
To complete and file my report by 0800 Wednesday. But sir 
Then do that, Starling. Do just exactly that.
Sir, what is it? There's something you're not telling me.
Miggs has been murdered.
Murdered...? How?
The orderly heard Lecter whispering to him, all afternoon, and Miggs crying. They found him at bed check. He'd swallowed his own tongue... Chilton is scared stiff the family will file a civil rights lawsuit, and he's trying to blame it on you. I told the little prick your conduct was flawless. Starling...?
I'm here, sir, I just  I don't know how to feel about it.
You don't have to feel any way about it. Lecter did it to amuse himself. Why not, what can they do? Take away his books for awhile, and no jello... I know it got ugly today. But this is your report, Starling  take it as far as you can. On your own time, outside of class. Now carry on.
Blue square for Belvedere, Ohio, where the Bimmel girl was abducted. Blue triangle where her body was found  down here in Missouri. Same marks for the other four girls, in different colors. This new one, today... washed up here. Elk River, in West Virginia, about six miles below U.S. 79. Real boonies.
There's no correlation at all between where they're kidnapped and where they're found...? What if  what if you trace the heaviesttraffic routes backwards from the dump sites? Do they converge at all?
Good idea, but he thought of it, too. We've run simulations, using different vectors and the best dates we can assign. You put it all in the computer, and smoke comes out. No, this one is different. This one has seen us coming...
Talk about him, Starling. Tell me what you see.
He's a white male... Serial killers tend to hunt within their own ethnic group. And he's not a drifter  he's got his own house, somewhere. Not an apartment.
Why?
What he does with them  takes privacy... Time, tools... He's in his 30's or 40's  he's got real physical strength, but combined with an older man's selfcontrol. He's cautious, precise, never impulsive... This won't end in suicide, like they often do.
Why not?
He's got a real taste for it now. And he's getting better at his work.
Maybe you've got a knack for this... I guess we're about to find out.
Like I have a "knack" for Dr. Lecter?
Okay, Starling. Let's have it.
You haven't said a word today about that garage. Or what I found there.
What should I say? You did fine work. We'll wait on the lab.
You knew. You knew from the start that Lecter held the key to this... But you weren't up front with me. You sent me in to him naked.
Are you finished?
He starts this  buzzing in me, in my head. He makes me feel violated... You used me, Mr. Crawford.
What do you see, Starling?
Well, she's not local. Her ears are pierced three times each, and she's wearing green glitter nail polish. Looks like town to me...
I don't know. I didn't see those on any of the other girls...
They weren't there. Get closeups.
When I told that sheriff we shouldn't talk in front of a woman, that really burned you, didn't it? That was just smoke, Starling, I had to get rid of him. You did well in there.
It matters, Mr. Crawford... Other cops know who you are. They look at you to see how to act... It matters.
Point taken.
When we get back, I want you to run that bug by the Smithsonian, see if they can identify it. Maybe it's got some limited range, or it only breeds at certain times of year... You found it, Starling, you deserve the credit.
I'm wondering if he's done that before  placed a cocoon, or an insect. It would be easy to miss in an autopsy, especially with a floater... Can we check back on that?
The other girls are in the ground. Exhumations are upsetting for the families. I'll do it if I have to, but 
Then have the lab check Raspail's head. Dr. Lecter's patient  have them probe his softpalette tissues... They'll find another cocoon.
You seem pretty sure of that.
Raspail was killed by the same man who's killing these girls. And Lecter knows him. Maybe even treated him... You think so, too, don't you? Or you'd never have sent me to that asylum.
But for Catherine Martin, it all comes down to you and Lecter. You're the one he talks to.
He's already offered to help... What would happen if we just showed our cards  asked him for Bill?
He offered to help, Starling, not to snitch. That wouldn't give him enough chance to show off. Remember, Lecter looks mainly for fun. Never forget fun.
But if he knew we have so little time 
If we act too anxious, he'll make us wait. He'll let the Senator keep hoping, day after day, until Catherine finally washes up. That'd be the most fun of all.
I think he means it, this time. I think he'll deal.
What would it take?
Transfer to a new prison. With a view of trees, he said, or even water... Can we swing that?
State to federal jurisdiction... We can do it  eventually  but we'll never get all the clearances in time. Can you convince him a deal's already in place?
You'll back me up with some paperwork? Then I'll try. But wouldn't this have more weight coming from the Senator herself?
She doesn't know what we're up to. And we can't afford to let her find out.
Chilton has killed her, hasn't he? That slimy little bastard! We were so close with Lecter  and now her last chance is gone.
Let's get some coffee and talk.
Are you in trouble over this, Mr. Crawford? Can Senator Martin do something to you?
I'm 53, Starling. If I found Jimmy Hoffa on national TV, I'd still have to retire in two years. It's not a consideration. But you are... You've done enough. If I keep you out of school any longer, you'll be recycled. Cost you six months, at least. I can guarantee you readmission here, but that's about it. Now's your chance, Starling. Go back to class. Leave Bill to me.
If you didn't want me chasing him, you shouldn't have taken me to that funeral home.
Lecter is still the key, I know he is. Whatever he told me about Bill is just as good now as it was before.
Or just as worthless. But I want you in Memphis, close to him. Maybe when he gets tired of toying with Senator Martin, he'll talk to you again. There's a plane waiting for you now at the airstrip.
I lied to Lecter. I'll need some kind of peace offering... Can I get the drawings from his cell?
Good idea. Meantime, try to get a feel for Catherine Martin. Her apartment, her friends... how he might've stalked her. I'm going to the other two clinics, Minnesota and Ohio. Now's the hardest part, Starling. Use your anger, don't let it keep you from thinking. Just keep your eyes on Catherine. We've got less than 30 hours.
Mr. Crawford... can those cops down there handle Dr. Lecter?
They'll use their best men. But they better be paying attention...
All his victims are women... His obsession is women, he lives to hunt women. But not one women is hunting him  except me. I can walk in a woman's room and know three times as much about her as a man would. I have to go to Belvedere.
You heard them. I don't have that authority anymore.
You do until six p.m.
Ohio is cold ground. Picked over, ten months ago. Our people worked it, so did the locals.
But not from this angle. Not thinking he knew her. You've got to send me!
I'm Bureau for 28 years, Starling. I won't disobey orders, not even now.
But I just became a private citizen. I can go anywhere I want to.
With ID and a gun...? Impersonating a federal agent is a felony.
He's going to kill her, Mr. Crawford. This morning, or maybe at noon, but today, and Belvedere's our last chance. I'm flying there, right now, unless you stop me. You want my ID? Here  take it...
He's making himself a "woman suit," Mr. Crawford  out of real women! And he can sew, this guy, he's really skilled. A dressmaker, or a tailor 
Starling 
That's why they're all so big  because he needs a lot of skin! He keeps them alive to starve them awhile  to loosen their skin, so that 
Starling, we know who he is! And where he is. We're on our way now.
Where?
Sir, that's great news. But how 
Johns Hopkins finally came up with a name for us. We fed him into Known Offenders, and he came up cherries. Subject's name is "Jamie Gumb," AKA "John Grant." Lecter's description was accurate, he just lied about the name.
This Gumb's a real beauty. Slaughtered both his grandparents when he was twelve, and did nine years in juvenile psychiatric. Where, Starling, he took vocational rehab, and learned a useful trade...
Sewing...
Take a bow. Customs had some paper on his alias. They stopped a carton two years ago at LAX  live caterpillars from Surinam. The addressee was "John Grant." Calumet Power & Light's given us two possible residences under that alias. We're hitting one, Chicago SWAT's taking the other.
Chicago's only about 400 miles from here. I could be there in 
No, Starling, there isn't time. And you've still got crucial work to do in Ohio. We want him for murder, not kidnapping. I'm counting on you to link him to the Bimmel girl, before he's indicted.
Yes sir... I'll do my best.
Starling  you've earned back your place in the Academy. We never would've found him without you, and nobody's ever going to forget that. Least of all me.
Yes sir. Thank you, sir...
Excuse me, but I really do need to talk to you. This was Mrs. Lippman's house. Did you know her?
Just briefly. What's the problem, Officer?
I'm investigating the death of Fredrica Bimmel. Who are you, please?
Jack Gordon.
Mr. Gordon, did you know Fredrica when she worked for Mrs. Lippman?
No. Wait... Was she a great, fat person? I may have seen her, I'm not sure...
Mrs. Lippman had a son, maybe he could help you. I have his card somewhere. Do you mind stepping inside, while I looks for it?
Thanks.
Are they close to catching somebody, do you think?
I think we may be, yes.
Mr. Gordon, did you take over this place after Mrs. Lippman died?
Yes. I bought the house from her, two years ago.
Did she leave any records here? Tax or business records? Maybe a list of employees?
Not to my knowledge. Privacy is a great concern to my customers. But, if you say this is an FBI matter...
I won't disturb anything, Mr. Yow, I promise. Be gone before you know it.
Mr. Yow, if this door should fall down ha ha!  or anything else  would you be kind enough to call this number? It's our Baltimore field office. They know you're here with me... Do you understand?
Might I suggest tucking your pants into your socks? To prevent mouse intrusion.
Good idea.
Okay, Miss Starling?
Okay, Mr. Yow...
You're playing a piano, Miss Starling?
That wasn't me.
Oh.
Mr. Yow? Oh Mr. Yow...? It looks like somebody is sitting in this car.
Oh my! Oh my... Maybe you better come out now, Miss Starling.
Not yet!  just wait for me. Maybe in about two seconds.
You're out of line, Starling, and you're off this case. Back to Quantico.
Sir, Mr. Crawford instructed me 
Your instructions are what I'm giving you now. Jack Crawford answers to the Director, and the Director answers to me. My God, Crawford's losing it...! He shouldn't even be on this, with his wife sick as she is... How the hell did you get in here, anyway? He gave you  what? Some kind of special ID? Let's have it.
I need the ID to fly with my gun. The gun belongs in Quantico.
Gun. Jesus. Turn in the ID as soon as you get back. The gun, too. Be on the next plane, Starling, there's one in 90 minutes.
Mr. Krendler... Dr. Lecter trusts me. Or at least, he used to. If I could just 
Lecter has already named Buffalo Bill.
He gave us a perfectly good description, and we're on it now, so we won't be needing your little novelty act any longer  or his, either. He's under close guard at the courthouse, pending a prison transfer. The next plane, Officer.
Sir, doesn't this "William Rubin" strike you as  I don't know  kind of vague?
Do you need a police escort, Starling? Or do you think you can find the airport by yourself?
Yes sir. I can find it by myself.
Maybe he lives in this, this Belvedere, Ohio, too! Maybe he saw her every day, and killed her sort of spontaneously. Maybe he just meant to... give her a 7Up and talk about the choir. But then 
Starling 
But then he had to cover up, make her seem just like all the rest of them. That's what Lecter was hinting!
The market in Lecter hints is way down, today, okay? I've got two good men dead in Memphis, and three civilians. I've got 
I'm sure it's a great town, Dr. Chilton, but my instructions are to talk to Lecter and report back this afternoon.
I see. Let's make this quick, then. I'm busy.
Lecter carved up nine people  that we're sure of  and cooked his favorite bits. We've tried to study him, of course  but he's much too sophisticated for the standard tests. And my, does he hate us! Thinks I'm his nemesis... Crawford's very clever, isn't he? Using you.
How do you mean, Dr. Chilton?
A pretty young woman, to turn him on? I don't believe Lecter's ever seen a woman in eight years. And oh, are you ever his "taste"  so to speak.
I graduated magna from UVA, Doctor. It's not a charm school.
Good. Then you should be able to remember the rules.
Do not reach through the bars, do not touch the bars. You pass him nothing but soft paper  no pens or pencils. No staples or paperclips in his paper. Use the sliding food carrier, no exceptions. Do not accept anything he attempts to hold out to you. Do you understand me?
I understand.
I'm going to show you why we insist on such precautions... On the afternoon of July 8, 1981, he complained of chest pains and was taken to the dispensary. His mouthpiece and restraints were removed for an EKG. When the nurse bent over him, he did this to her...
Dr. Chilton  if Lecter feels you're his enemy  as you've said  then maybe I'll have more luck by myself. What do you think?
You might have suggested that in my office, and saved me the time.
But then I would've missed the pleasure of your company.
What you're doing, Miss Starling, is coming into my hospital to conduct an interview, and refusing to share information with me. For the third time!
Dr. Chilton, I told you  this is just routine followup on the Raspail case.
He's my patient! I have rights! I'm not just some turnkey, Miss Starling. I shouldn't even be here this afternoon. I had a ticket to Holiday on Ice.
FBI, Catherine, you're safe.
Safe, SHIT, he's got a gun! Getmeout. GET ME OUT!
You're all right! Where is he?
Get me out!
I'll get you out! Just be quiet so I can hear. Shut that dog up. Is there a ladder? Is there a rope?
I don't know! Get me out!!
Catherine. Listen to me. I have to find a rope. I have to leave this room, just for a minute, but 
NOOOOO! You fucking bitch don't you LEAVE ME down here, DON'T YOU  YOU
Shut UP! The other officers will be here any minute! you're perfectly safe now!
Get your field gear, take stuff for overnight. You're goin' with Crawford.
Where?
Some fishermen in West Virginia found an unidentified girl's body. It's a Buffalo Billtype situation. Been in the water about a week, and Jack needs somebody that can print a floater. Think you can handle it?
I'll need the big fingerprint kit... and the onetoone Polaroid, the CU 5, with film packs and batteries.
Jack's pretty tough on you, isn't he? Impatient...
Sometimes.
He's got a lot on his mind besides Buffalo Bill... His wife, Bella, is real sick. Comatose... I'm tellin' you about it now, 'cause he may never.
Wear it, don't ever leave it in your purse. Dry fire it whenever you get the chance. And do your exercises.
I will... I promise.
Listen, I hope you never need a thing I've taught you. But you've got something... Jack sees it, I do too. If you ever need to, you can shoot.
Damn, Clarice, how'd you make me?
Never cock. Just squeeze.
I love it when you talk dirty.
What'd I do?
Stay cool. Just remember to call him "God."
Phone call, Clarice. It's God.
Thanks, Ardelia.
You missed Fourth Amendment law. Unlawful seizure, real juicy stuff. Where were you all afternoon?
Pleading with a crazy man, with come all over my face.
Boy, is that smart...
Why does she keep repeating the name?
Somebody's coaching her... They're trying to make him see Catherine as a person  not just an object.
No. He won't come after me.
Why not?
It would be rude. And he wouldn't get to ask any more questions...
Clarice  you did the best anybody could have for Catherine Martin. You stuck your neck out for her and you got your butt kicked for her and you tried. It's not your fault it ended this way.
The worst part  the thing that's making me crazy  is that Bill is right in front of me. Only I can't see him... Lecter said, everything I need to catch him is right here, in these pages...
Lecter said a lot of things.
He's here, Ardelia.
"Desperately random." What does he mean?
Not random at all, maybe. Like there's some pattern here...?
But there is no pattern. There's no connection at all among these places, or the computers would've nailed it! They're even found in random order.
Well, except for the one girl.
What girl?
The one that was weighted down. Where is she...? Fred something.
Fredrica Bimmel, from Belvedere, Ohio. The first girl taken, but the third body found... Why?
'Cause she didn't drift. He weighted her down.
But why? He didn't weight the others.
" every day."
Hot damn, Clarice.
He knew her...!
Agent Starling! Telephone!
Agent Mapp! Thank you!
What do you expect, mugging me from behind?
I <u>tapped</u> you.
Well you <u>shouldn't</u> have. How did you even know where I was.
Wild guess.
I don't like to be scared, Myra, I have a thing about fright, don't ever scare me.
Kevin told me you were upset.
Really? I never realized he was so psychic, how could he detect that, did he tell you there's somebody else?
Well... he didn't have to tell me that part.
<u>You</u>?
It started <u>before</u> you, Kelly, I never would've
<u>You</u>?
It was just a quick thing which we thought was over, and and...
You and Kevin.
It wasn't suppose to happen, I don't know what to say...
You don't know what to say, lucky for you action speaks louder than words.
Kelly
I'm not upset, Myra, okay. I just never thought of you as a y'know...
Backstabber?
No.
Liar?
Myra.
Shitbutt?
I really... I should get back.
Kelly.
Kevin, hey.
Hi. Listen. Could I steal you a second?
Absolutely.
I had a great time last night. Again.
Me too.
That's not what you came to say.
You work for me. I'm not comfortable with y'know, "us"...
I was working for you when "us" started, what's
I know and I thought I could handle it but work and pleasure along with somebody else, it's a dangerous mix.
Kevin, as long as we... What was that last part?
The somebody else part?
Yeah, that part. There's... somebody who's um...
Else.
Oh. Oh. That's okay. Well. This uh... this probably wasn't meant to be, y'know. I mean, I'm... God, I gotta be ten years younger and you, <u>you</u>... you're y'know...
A jerk.
<u>Oh</u>... No, no, I'm not angry I'm not, I'm just thrown, I'm... I actually have an early lunch, so...
It's ten after nine.
Yes, well... famished.
Hey.
Kevin. How's it going, what's happenin', family good, great, nice to catch up, get out.
This is business. There was an accident in Maine, some guy got killed by something in a lake. Probably a bear, but... they found a tooth.
A tooth?
A tooth they say couldn't have come from any bear. They say it looks prehistoric. Like maybe a dinosaur.
Oh, well then I'm sure that's it, he got killed by a dinosaur, anything else?
I want you to go there.
Sorry?
I'm sure it's nothing, but you're a paleontologist, this is what we do, I
This is what we do?
I'd like you to check out this lake. See
Are you on drugs?
Kelly
I'm not going to Maine, I won't even go west of Fortythird Street
Part of our research
I'm not even a field person.
Well on this one I'd like you to be.
This was Myra's idea, wasn't it? Get me out of the office for a few days, until
It has nothing to do with
I never do field work and even if I did, <u>Maine</u>, to look at a tooth of a <u>dinosaur</u> who bit somebody, couldn't you dream up something
<u>Kelly</u>
<u>I</u> <u>am</u> <u>not</u> <u>going</u> <u>to</u> <u>Maine</u>. That's ridiculous.
He just came up screaming.
Did he say anything?
He just kinda gurgled. He was pretty much dead.
And you didn't see <u>anything</u>?
The lake was dead calm until up he came. The tooth is in there.
<u>There</u>? That's the morgue.
Yes.
Is the dead guy in there?
That's where they keep them. You want me to bring the tooth out here?
Um. No, no. Let's go.
I wouldn't.
I'm fine, thank you.
Have you ever seen a dead body before, Ms. Scott?
Well. At wakes.
This is a little different.
I can look at dead things.
This... how long did this attack go on for?
Seconds. Three, four.
And this is how he came to the boat?
Yes.
Okay. And is there a place nearby I could go to vomit?
Nobody lives within twentyfive miles, 'cept some old couple who live right on the lake. Teenagers trek in every once in a while, none have disappeared, and none have spotted anything unusual.
You talk to the married couple?
Not yet.
What kind of backup do we have?
<u>We</u>?
What?
Sorry. I'm just a little unclear as to why the Museum of Natural History would send somebody here.
You have a thing against museums?
I got nothing against
Ever even been <u>in</u> one?
<u>What</u> <u>is</u> <u>that</u>?
Lightweight Forward Area air device unit. Whatever's out there, one shot with this and he's dead.
And you stock these things for what, to fend off Russia?
You're sort of a rude person.
It's just that
We don't mean to invade your privacy but... was he ill, was he sick?
Was he swallowed?
Sheriff.
What is with this lake? It looks black and... there are no waves or anything.
They wanted to call it Lake Placid. But somebody said that name was taken.
Gee.
The tents were sent ahead, they should already be setup.
We're staying in <u>tents</u>?
I told you. Two days, we'd have to camp.
Yes, <u>camp</u>, I thought that meant Holiday Inn, I never heard "tents", will there be toilets?
What the hell?
What?
I thought I saw...
It looks like a branch.
Hey!!
You threw it at me!!
I just let go of it.
With what?
Crocodiles. He's an expert on them. And if he's <u>here</u>... then he must think that's what's in this lake.
They don't believe her.
Thank you, it's so rewarding to imagine my tax dollar finding its way to you, you Fucker.
You hurt his feelings. I think you should go apologize.
<u>Apologize</u>?
Is this 'spose to make me take him more serious?
It's to make you <u>understand</u> him, with understanding comes tolerance. Too bad they don't put proverbs in Twinkies, my load would be lighter.
Why does everybody insult my intelligence, I have intelligence, intelligent people eat Twinkies.
I'm sorry.
Was that like a homosexual remark?
I asked you to be nice to him.
He may be a kook but he's also been all over the world with them. He even swam in the Grimetti with killer Niles all around him, he never got nipped.
And that's why he thinks they're Godly?
He said he knew it when he looked into their eyes.
You like Jack?
<u>What</u>? I don't even <u>know</u> the guy.
Hector thinks you like him.
Well Hector's a giant cracker.
You think Jack's handsome?
What is this?
I'm just curious. I can never tell what women think is handsome. Is he handsome?
Well. He's probably rugged handsome I guess. Yeah.
Hector, Jack, we show you with about twelve minutes of oxygen left, and you're on the last tank. Time to go home.
<u>That</u> was a bust.
What was that?
I don't know. It was like a tug. Something tugged us.
Are you alright?
I think. My hair. Where's Hector?! Where is he?
Hank?
Yes.
Are you okay?
Other than feeling slightly embarrassed, I'm perfectly fine. Could you cut me down?
Hank!
He said he knew Karate!
Shit, shit, shit, shit, shit.
Look.
What is she doing <u>now</u>? <u>Mother</u> <u>of</u> <u>God</u>.
What?
Look ten feet into the water.
If he gets close, you go <u>up</u>, Hector, don't you endanger that cow.
She's worried about the cow now.
They're coming right in.
Such a simple idea and it's working. What does that tell you?
That it's about to go wrong.
Did you get him?
I don't know. Back the truck
Should I?
Wait.
I'm sure this would offend you on principal but... could we keep in touch?
I guess.
We set?
Ready. A museum in New York sent us some additional back up.
I'm ready when you are.
Let's go.
Half mile up, there's a clearing.
You gonna dig up that lady's husband?
I'll call the coroner.
What's that?
White perch.
Are they feeding?
Doesn't <u>look</u> like it.
They look like they're jumping.
Hank. The little cannon you brought, get it. Guard the shoreline. Otherwise, we're done. We made the I.D., our job is finished.
Alright, Ms. Paleontologist. I wanna know why that monster is here. You got a theory?
You said nobody came in here!
Obviously I was wrong!
Get back from the shore. We know how fast he can leap out.
We shouldn't even really be doing this.
They won't be here till at least noon. We got a few hours to kill.
So does he.
Now I'm gonna puke.
<u>You</u> <u>gotta</u> <u>be</u> <u>kidding</u>.
Even if we <u>could</u> tranq him how would we get him on land.
Other than to eat us?
I can't. I'll get Hector!!
Where is he?!
If you get a safe shot...
I'll take it!
Hector. <u>Do</u> <u>not</u> <u>move</u>.
He's done. He's dying.
Don't count on it. We better take him out.
Thanks for your help.
You too.
Kelly Scott.
Jack Wells. A museum sent you?
Are we all museum bigots in Maine?
Did you make anything of the tooth?
Yes, it <u>did</u> seem prehistoric but I'm sure he just carried the thing for luck. Not that it <u>worked</u>, obviously. It probably somehow got lodged into his body.
Excuse me. One other thing, it's a <u>small</u> point, but... I have a thing about being humored, and I'm feeling humored, more by <u>him</u>, but you seemed quick to join in.
Ma'am, your first impression isn't going well.
How big do the bears get?
Big but... a bear couldn't do that to a moose or man in <u>water</u>. On <u>land</u> maybe. But...
And they're sure he didn't get tangled under the outboard somehow?
Hank <u>says</u> he's sure.
It really is beautiful, isn't it?
Never been to Maine before?
I was told they discriminate against people with hygiene. I never <u>believed</u> it.
Why are you here? Really.
I <u>told</u> you.
The Museum of Natural History doesn't send out investigators to
How would <u>you</u> know, what
And even if they <u>did</u>, I doubt <u>he</u> or <u>she</u> would have problems with <u>tents</u>.
So I don't like tents, why
You don't like tents, mosquitos, look at your fingernails, you have about as much business being in the woods
I'm not making it up.
Well. You don't have to <u>stay</u> out <u>here</u>, why don't
I've come, I'm here, I'm staying. Unless there are ticks.
Oh my God.
What?
If this is who I <u>think</u> it is. It <u>is</u>.
Who?
Hector Cyr. He's a rich kook mythology professor. He's done some work with our museum. He also treks the world to swim with crocodiles.
In Maine?
There <u>have</u> been Northern sightings. But not <u>this</u> North.
Same thing from Fish And Game.
<u>Something's</u> in that water.
Well until we see it, we're not gonna be convincing too many people.
Baby crocs?
Adult males will charge hatchlings. If there's one out there...
If one could be out there... why does Fish And Game tell me it's impossible?
Because they just consult their little indigenous charts.
He could be right there and you wouldn't see him.
I'd be able to see something.
What are you doing?
Skipping stones. Look how flat that water is, you can get ten skips on a good one.
Listen, uh... Hank and I think it best if you stay on shore.
I beg your pardon?
Whatever's out there <u>did</u> flip over a canoe
I am <u>not</u> staying on shore.
It's too dangerous for
I didn't fly up here to roast marshmallows
You flew up here because your boss
I am going out on that boat and why are you picking on me, is this some kind of
That was an awful thing to say to me.
I'm sorry but you're...
Okay. We're up at six.
Good.
'Night.
He thinks they're what?
In his defense, every primitive culture known to man deified them. He's a mythology professor, he thinks crocs are divine conduits.
They respond pretty quick. I'll wait till you get down before I turn it on.
Good. See ya soon.
Good luck.
You okay? Kelly?
Yeah. Nobody saw <u>anything</u>?
No. U.S. Wildlife is on their way.
That's probably good.
Police want to keep it quiet, if the press gets word... lake monster. They just want us to sit tight.
<u>Are</u> you okay?
Um... y'know... Yeah.
Hard to believe there could be a monster under such peacefulness.
I thought I might track the shoreline tomorrow, look for prints.
You know they say the brain confuses fear for passion.
Excuse me?
When you get scared, the brain releases a chemical, same chemical it releases when somebody's... in high school, the thing to do was to take the girl to a scary movie.
What are you talking about?
I'm saying between the moonlight, a beautiful lake <u>and</u> a monster that bites heads off... you look good.
Gee, that was so poetic, Jack. I'm all moist.
Forgive me for trying to be nice.
Nice? Nice would be "you look pretty," nice is not some man eating monster has tricked my brain into making you look good.
I didn't say it like that.
You <u>did</u>, you
I was trying to pay you a compliment, I was guising it as science 'cause I know you're comfortable in that arena. Science.
A man just died, you're hitting on me with science.
Just forget it.
Why he's that <u>big</u>, I don't know. Why he's <u>here</u>... the wetlands are being developed, crocodiles are moving. Australia, Fiji, the things have started to cross oceans.
But why <u>Maine</u> and why alone? Crocs are social, why's this guy on the move by himself?
Like little children. You okay?
Yeah. I got some stuff for your cut.
I couldn't believe... did you see the size of that thing's mouth?
I wonder if he's some kind of mutant. That bear had to be surprised.
Let's get away from the shore.
Sorry.
It's okay.
<u>Ow</u>. Shit.
Just gotta pull it a little tighter.
Who taught you be be a nurse?
Father's a surgeon. I can even stitch in a pinch, wouldn't be a bad idea here.
No thanks.
Keep it dry. No swimming.
Thank you.
You're having the best time of your life, aren't you?
What? Why... people have been killed, I hardly think I'm having a good time, why would... Does it show?
That's why you're here. To get in the middle of something?
Maybe. I've always <u>read</u> about what's happened. I've never... I know it sounds silly but, it's nice to be someplace <u>while</u> something is actually... y'know... happening.
Thanks for the... bandaid.
Night.
Well. Goodnight.
We seem to say goodnight a lot.
We could <u>not</u> say it and... Well, that thing is ambulatory if you want somebody in your tent to...
I'm gonna get ticks. I know it. They're drawn to me. I got a thing about ticks.
Ssssh!
What?
I heard something.
Thing we can lift it?
Maybe. Don't mush it.
I'm not mushing it.
You're mushing it a little around the
<u>I'm</u> <u>not</u> <u>mushing</u> <u>it</u>.
Okay. Okay. Okay.
<u>That</u> <u>is</u> <u>it</u>!!
Really
<u>No</u>. I keep getting hit with heads!
Calm down.
You calm down!
<u>Calm</u> <u>down</u>.
What?
Look.
You wanna kill yourself, that it, you looking to commit some kind of divine suicide?
Alright, Jack!
<u>No</u>! You might think they're Godly, you might get some spiritual lift backstrokin' with dragons but you just put a deputy at risk and
Just heard from Wildlife and Florida Fish And Game. They should be here by four.
Okay.
We might as well pack.
Good idea.
Are we crazy?
Well...
We've got a cow hanging from a helicopter.
It can't work.
He <u>has</u> been going after everything. It <u>could</u> work. But this is not a happy cow.
He looks like a giant tea bag.
He doesn't seem to be swimming. Is he swimming?
He's floating. Take it home.
Hector.
He's mooing.
You wouldn't?
Watch out!!
Keep firing!
Hector!!
Take him.
We gotta get to Hector!!
Back us in a little, we need to get a shot!
He's through fighting. Look at him.
I don't care. Hank. End it.
Get him onto shore.
He heeds a tourniquet.
Well...
You wanna ride in my truck?
You sure? I don't mind...
No, I actually <u>want</u> to stay for a little while.
If I'm ever in New York...
Yeah.
Y'know, if we didn't live in separate worlds and...
But we do. Hey, we'll always have Maine.
It was... something meeting you.
Likewise.
Different worlds, Jack.
Yeah, I thought about that as I was driving... and... I haven't found somebody in my world. You found anyone in yours?
No.
So I was thinking... maybe if I met anybody in <u>my</u> world who was good for <u>you</u> and if you know somebody in New York good for me, we could fix each other up.
You think?
Worth a try. We don't wanna be alone forever, do we?
Probably not.
That was... y'know if the guy asks me can she kiss, now I'll be able to tell him if you can.
Good thinking.
Hector. The big one has no sense of humor. And since <u>he's</u> the one who decides whether you get to play, try not to be your obnoxious self.
That hurt my feelings.
If he's here, I'll find him. Did she tell you we had sex together?
I never had sex with you!
Even so, you're allowed to boast. You look thin by the way, I've mentally undressed you, I can see your ribcage.
But they're nighttime hunters, Hector, he'd probably be on land now anyway.
'Cept he wasn't before, was he? You know, when friends or family members say things, they tend not to register so sometimes it helps to hear it from a total stranger. You're fat.
<u>Hector</u>.
None of us actually <u>saw</u> anything. I realize this Sir, but something flipped us over, I doubt very much it was a mink.
What's going on?
Such the flirt.
U.S. Wildlife won't send anybody without a confirmation.
You <u>should</u> take a flax pole.
And what if I tranq him Kelly? He drowns. You think about that?
I'm just saying last resort.
Two years married, divorced, used to be a lawyer, quit, I'm still waiting on his sperm count.
What? Oh as <u>if</u> I'm interested.
As if. Will you miss me?
He was an Indopacific.
Are you sure?
Scales were oval. It was an <u>Asian</u> crocodile.
<u>Jack</u>!
I'm a civilian! You don't have any authority
<u>Did</u> you want to be killed by it?
You think I'm <u>that</u> nuts?
Hector. What you just did... there was at least some sort of a death wish going on.
Nothing's real.
Excuse me?
<u>Nothing's</u> real. I'm rich, people are automatically my friends, sycophants ooze out like oil slicks and and and
With crocodiles... everything's even.
I'm no psychiatrist. But I would think there have to be better places to look for autonomy, than
I'm an empty man, Kelly, wealth has robbed me of the dream in life, I sit here broken, a hollow sack
Oh, bullshit.
Didn't even <u>sound</u> good?
No.
Eh. Fuck it.
Can I tell them you won't go back in the water?
Yes. You may. But maybe... I don't know...
What?
Could we have intercourse?
They're not going to be able to snag him in pitmans. Tranq him in water, he drowns.
They could try to tranq him on land.
They won't. He's taken human life, the mission will be to put him down.
And how would we neutralize him?
We lure him on land and pump him with the drugs.
I'm okay.
You're not okay, your leg's a mess.
You're gonna be okay.
Guess I finally got bit.
Yeah, you got bit. I'm gonna fix it.
He's gonna live?
Yeah. Thanks to you.
And Hank. I know you weren't really trying to hit him.
At school they'd always say "go" first.
Get your big gun and guard the shore. Hector. Go to your tent.
He never said "go".
Get the gun.
This time, <u>I'm</u> gonna kick your ass.
Bastard bit my chopper.
Hey!!
Let's not overlook he didn't eat me, maybe
'Cause he just ate a cow, you stupid
Well, you can try talking them into that, if
I have enough flaxedil with me to put him out. And I think I know a way to
<u>Forget</u> <u>it</u>.
Look. I know I'm crazy, but when they come, they will kill it. They have to, politically, he's too dangerous, if something were to go wrong... the odds are he will be destroyed,
No way.
Jack. We've all seen it. He's probably a hundred and fifty years old, he's bigger than an elephant.
So maybe Wildlife will try to save him, they're more equipped to
We both know what they'll do.
And again. How would you get him on land?
That's actually the easy part.
Keep enough tension to hold him up, Hector, we don't know if he can swim.
Right.
The more he thrashes, the better.
You ready on shore?
We're ready.
I got something on the screen.
You do?
Where? Where?
Thirty meters or so. Moving slow, but straight toward Elsie.
Can you confirm visually or just radar?
Radar, he's underwater. But he's definitely coming.
Okay. Lead him in. Okay, everybody up on the trucks. We aim for the stomach or side... there's little chance the darts will pierce his hide. <u>Everybody</u> <u>up</u> <u>on</u> <u>the</u> <u>trucks</u>.
Almost here, Hector. Don't forget to lift up the cow.
Thank you, Jack.
You shoot on my order. If he charges, I'll be yelling "go" which means drivers take off. And drive fast, they can move on land. You set?
Where is he?
Tranq guns down, rifles up!
<u>No</u>. Look. He's got nothing left.
Yeah and every time we think there's no more danger
You take care.
You talk to Bickerman?
She didn't tell us about the other croc 'cause she was afraid we'd blow it's head off.
Women's intuition. Are there anymore?
Just those two.
<u>Who</u> <u>is</u> <u>he</u>?
I'll need any and all topographic studies.
Wait just a second. You don't just fly in here and start barking orders.
I apologize, I just don't want to lose the light, we've got time for a quick scout, you've had work done.
They've been migrating north, Kelly, this lake connects to the ocean,
Mr. Cyr!
C'mon, we're losing light, why does the big one heckle me?
I really don't mean to be discourteous. But how is it a person could come to believe that a crocodile is in New England?
They have saltwater glands, they can swim across oceans, it's only a matter of time.
And what would he do come winter?
They can survive winter. As long as their nostrils don't freeze, they survive, am I foolish to explain things, he had such trouble with my name?
Around here. Yeah.
If he's eaten in the area, he shouldn't be far away. Crocs hang around the food source.
We'd only just met.
Well, you've got a croc alright, they're keystone species.
Keystone what?
Species, keystones affect the entire ecosystem, that could explain all these worms, the water. You've got a crocodile. Bury your friend.
We are here on official business.
Cocktail?
<u>No</u>!! What's with digging the holes?
They come on land and they're brazen. They're also attracted to noise, you can see I make a lot of it.
Everybody out, back to your tents, <u>now</u>!
Could <u>she</u> stay, we've tentatively scheduled intercourse.
No!! Out!
You listen to me. The only reason I'm letting you be part of this is 'cause you got the helicopter and the radar
And you like me.
I do <u>not</u> like you.
Deep down, gut check. I'm growing fond of <u>you</u> and it's liberating to say so.
Jesus Christ!!
What the hell are you doing?!!
What are <u>you</u> doing?!
You're crawling around like a
I'm laying a spring trap!
A spring trap!
I keep telling you, they <u>can</u> come on land, I don't wanna wake up in the middle of the night
I coulda shot you, you
This could end up saving your life,
Again, I don't mean to be annoying with my questions. But if it <u>is</u> a crocodile which I don't think it is. And if they <u>do</u> charge these baby hatchling sounds... why exactly would you want to be underwater at the time? With you it makes sense.
They don't really attack underwater and
That "Walt" guy got hit underwater
No crocodile has ever
Again. Not to be disruptive. Do we have a problem with it dying?
Crocodiles don't sever with their teeth, their molars are blunt.
Is this a trick?
What I'm saying is <u>if</u> it's a crocodile that cut a man in half he would have to be over twenty feet which would make him well over a hundred years old, it would be unthinkable to destroy him.
I brought a pork chop, maybe we could hang it around your neck for luck.
No thank you, but maybe later you can chew the bark off my big fat log.
Was he a good man?
Yup.
Whenever somebody dies I consider it such a waste that I didn't know him better.
His head was just... bitten off.
I used to have this recurring nightmare that I was headless.
This is a setback.
You don't want to cut me down. 'Cause I'll kill you.
Promise you won't kill me, first.
I have no interest in ever looking at you, Hector. Could you please cut me down?
Asia? How... how could he get here?
Obviously some asshole in Hong Kong flushed him down a toilet.
Maybe he doesn't play well with others.
Is everything a big fucking joke to you?
<u>Bite</u> <u>my</u> <u>bishop</u>.
What's that?
It came from across the lake.
Just spit him back out. Some shall live, some shall die, arbitrarily, sound like any higher power we know?
He didn't eat the kid cause he'd just swallowed a bear.
Sobek. Half man, half croc, oldest God
I'm tired, Hector. I know this because you're beginning to not bug me.
That <u>sounds</u> good but underneath it's hurtful. Nightcap?
Raincheck.
I can arrest you!!
Then do it!!
You probably <u>do</u> want to be killed by it, that was you trying to meet your maker.
So profound and fat.
Gee, that would really disappoint me.
Forget about him being God, he's thirty feet long, he <u>is</u> a miracle of nature, who somehow made his way to Maine. This is a grand beast. <u>A</u> <u>grand</u> <u>dragon</u>. An attempt should at least be made to capture him alive.
No!
I just have this feeling everything's totally safe.
I see blood. Maybe you got him, Hank.
Where is he?!
I don't know!
You're a beautiful woman.
Thank you.
And law enforcement, such dangerous work. The idea that you could die suddenly with no offspring, disconcerting, let's mate, commit your genes to perpetuity.
It seems like we're getting lower.
It happens when I land.
Why are we landing?
'Cause this is the cove he obviously lives in.
<u>So</u> <u>why</u> <u>are</u> <u>we</u> <u>landing</u>? <u>Hector</u>.
C'mon Hector. I know you're crazy but you can't
I need to see his habitat.
<u>Please</u>. I'll have sex with you, anything, but get out of the water.
He's not gonna hurt <u>me</u>.
I might get a shot.
<u>No</u>. If you don't kill him instantly, I'm dead and you'll only kill him instantly if you get his brain, which is about the size of a cherry. And even if you <u>were</u> on target, a bullet might not penetrate his hide.
Jesus. About twelve more yards. Keep coming just like that.
Go!!!
<u>I'm</u> <u>trying</u>!!!
Oh, my husband passed away almost two years ago.
My department doesn't have any record of that, Mrs. Bickerman.
Oh well, I'm sorry. I didn't realize you keep such a firm track of the dead.
And how would you have accomplished this, Ma'am?
Well, he was very ill and he refused to go see a doctor and well... I think he had Alzheimer's, he would be coherent one day, incoherent the next and one <u>coherent</u> day, he asked me to end his suffering. I wouldn't <u>do</u> it but he kept insisting and insisting and deteriorating till the point the only cognitive thing he could really do was that I finish him off. Finally I just gave in and hit him on the head with a skillet then buried him under the bulkhead.
I haven't broken any laws.
Oh, but you <u>have</u>, Ma'am. You lied to us, that could be obstruction of justice. A man's been killed in part 'cause of your silence, I could make out a charge of reckless endangerment and I'm sure PETA would be annoyed at how you treat your cows.
The <u>reason</u> I lied is if I'd told you the truth, you'd just hunt it down and kill it which seems to be exactly what you're doing.
Ma'am. Your husband, Bernie. You didn't, by any chance, lead him to the lake blindfolded?
<u>No</u>, <u>I</u> <u>did</u> <u>not</u>. The crocodile <u>did</u> kill him, though. But it was all... it was a mistake.
Ma'am, how could you not report this? He puts human life at risk and
Nobody <u>lives</u> on this lake. it's really <u>his</u> lake now.
Murders and rapes in the cities. People bomb planes... can the police stop them? <u>No</u>. But feed one little cow to a crocodile...
You're to wait right here until the police show, you're under full house arrest.
Thank you, Officer Fuckmeat.
I'll sue you.
Go ahead.
Mrs. Bickerman, the reason we're up here... a man was fatally attacked yesterday by some animal in this lake. Do you know how your husband died?
Oh yes. I killed him.
You killed him.
Oh, yes.
He just <u>appeared</u>. You have no idea how he arrived in this lake?
No. Do you?
You can't take a cow by eminent domain.
We won't let him get hurt, Ma'am.
You're all fuckers. Vicious little fuckers.
Did you love your husband, before you married?
I did not know him before I married him. I loved his brother, but then, I married his brother, too. He is dead now.
Hmm.
The land has stayed in the family. We work together. The nobleman is not too bad.
Does he treat you fairly?
No.
Too young?
Much too young.
Look for a strong woman, not too occupied with her beauty. Look for a woman who keeps her hands busy. Look for a kind heart.
Like my mother.
I see that.
Taktra Rinpoche, I understand there was an attempt on your life.
It is possible, Holiness.
You are unharmed?
Completely.
Good. Where is Reting Rinpoche now?
If we agree that we are part of China, nothing else will matter. Not trade, not defense. We will be lost.
What would you do, Holiness?
What should I do about my doubt, Teacher?
It is a difficult situation.
I mean, my doubt. Why me? Am I Him?
Doubt is an affliction. Reliquish it. Accept.
Tell me.
They think they have convinced me. They think I am on their side. They have allowed me to leave Kumbum and come to Lhasa believing that I will try to turn you to their ways. If I do not succeed, I am to eliminate you.
You, kill me?
Eliminate you.
Don't eat all those sweets. You'll get sick.
Do you remember the day I came to your monastery, when I was a baby? And you comforted me?
I do.
I remember, too, actually. I was frightened then. I am frightened now.
The Chinese have one goal. The complete dissolution of our nation. The destruction of our culture. There is no room for Buddha in their world. Our only hope is to fight.
We cannot.
This is not a fight to put bread just in one's own mouth. This is a fight for Tibet.
Buddha teaches that we must learn from our enemy. We have compassion for all people.
These are not human beings. They are worse than ghosts.
You are in great danger. The Dalai Lama cannot fall into Chinese hands. You must flee.
How could I ever leave?
It may not be your decision to make.
I'm on a big mountain and hitting at the bad men.
And after the game, we're going to trade. You just stay over there, no, there!, Norbu, and I will shoot at you. I want your land. I take it. I am stronger.
I am braver.
I have more men.
I have smarter men.
Things change, Kundun.
Why is your beard so funny? Let me touch this.
She carried a basket in her arms, a big, heavy basket, and the old monk cautiously approached. She opened her basket and showed what she had. Heads. Human heads. Only the heads.
Is that true or pretend?
It is a story, you decide.
Pretend.
As you say.
I want to go down there.
You can only go with attendants and a big ceremony.
I want to run down the street. I want to buy a toy. Eat from the shops.
You cannot.
I want to be a shepherd, taking those goats and cows out to the hillside.
But you are not a shepherd, you are the Dalai Lama.
Maybe in the next life, the world will not need a Dalai Lama.
I would not know. Maybe.
We have enemies.
The Chinese.
Yes.
But, surely, we are safe in Tibet. We don't believe in killing.
This is Britain.
Ahh.
Where is Poland?
This is Tibet. And this is China.
Ahh.
Why is this? What is happening? Tell me!
Reting Rinpoche has been arrested. He tried to overthrow Regent Taktra. Today, he is brought back to Lhasa by government officials. The monks at Sera Monastery have been on his side. Now, there is trouble between them and the army.
The people want you made Dalai Lama.
Then, I am lucky. I am still too young.
These are dangerous times. They want the Dalai Lama to lead them.
But, I have no experience.
Oh, but you do, Kundun. Who else would be here?
You will not come?
No, Holiness.
Am I running away?
The people will cry when they learn you are gone. But they would all want you safe.
You must study very hard, do not neglect the holy things during this time.
I will miss you.
We have had fun, you and I. Fun for a little boy in an old palace.
We have.
You have grown up very good.
And you have grown older and your chin has grown balder.
This little brother was terribly sweet. When he died, my mother was so sad. A lama said to her, before the little brother was laid out for burial, take a bit of butter and rub a spot on his skin. He will come back to you, you will see. So, my mother did this, and a few years later, a new boy was born.
Does he have the spot?
He does, a little spot where the butter had been.
Is that a true story, or pretend?
What do you think?
True.
You decide.
What does the butter spot feel like?
Soft. Nice. I have a good friend back in Lhasa.
I have news. The Regent has resigned his post.
Is he a bad man? Norbu says he is "lavish" and "willful". "How can he give you monk's vows if he has not kept them himself?"
Well, some say. It's not for you to worry about. Another will be chosen.
He was always nice to me. He found me. He saw me in his dreams.
I turn you over again, today, Lhamo. One day, you will not be able to come running to us.
But you will always be here?
Me?
You will always!
I have one more piece of news. A baby is coming.
Do you think I must?
You decide.
You must inform me at once if any of our people abuse the Tibetans trust and good nature.
I have great hopes for the future of our cooperation.
It is too early to implement all the clauses of the Seventeen Point Agreement. We will establish a Preparatory Committee for the Autonomous Region of Tibet. The pace of reform must meet with the desires of the Tibetan people. Changes must be made slowly, as you, yourself, judge necessary.
I am happy to hear you say this, Chairman Mao. I have created a reform committee to investigate grievances and we have abolished Inherited Tax, and forgiven all money owed the Government by people who are unable to pay.
Good. Very good. Tibet is a great country. A wonderful history. Long ago, you even conquered part of China. But now you have fallen behind and we want to help you. In twenty years time you could be ahead of us. Then it will be your turn to help China.
You know, I have great respect for your Lord Buddha. He was anticaste. Anticorruption. Antiexploitation. For some, politics and religion can mix.
For me, I think such a mix is crucial.
Have a sweet. Made in my home province. The kind my mother used to make.
Ah, Dalai Lama, thank you for coming so late.
I leave tomorrow.
Yes, I am aware. How has your time in China been?
I have been greatly impressed by your accomplishments. Industrial progress. Great efficiency. Your people are capable and courteous.
You have a lot to learn about organization. How to draw out people's opinions. How to make key decisions. Train your young Tibetans. When I make contact with you, I want to reach you through a Tibetan.
Always.
Good day.
Good day.
Please, come in, so cold.
We are traveling to Lhasa. May we...?
Of course, please, this way. Your servant may use the kitchen.
Thank you.
May I listen to the news with you, Holiness?
Please.
How big is Tibet's army?
Roughly five thousand men.
Is that big?
No. Not very big.
The Regent is adding men. And he bought rifles and ammunition from India. Mountain guns, too.
Will we be in this war?
No. This war is almost over.
Will we ever be in war?
In the Pacific Ocean.
It is an island. American territory.
Where is Alsace?
I do not know, Holiness.
What was the warning of the Thirteenth Dalai Lama?
He warned about the future of Tibet.
Tell me.
When it is time.
I am sorry for you to have to witness this, Kundun.
Look here!
What can I do? I am only a boy.
You are the man who wrote this letter. You are the man who has come back to lead us. You will soon have great responsibilities. You must know what to do.
I need to know what you know. I am no longer a child.
Ask whatever you will.
What is the danger from the Chinese, now?
The war is over. This is a time in when nations are redefining themselves.
So, Tibet, too, needs to define itself.
Yes. As a free country. But our attempts have proven futile. We continue to be badly outmaneuvered by the Chinese.
Can India help us?
India is a newly independent nation. They are struggling. India is in no position to help us.
Britain?
Britain chooses not to.
And, America?
America, we shall see.
Ask the Chinese mission to leave our country. Immediately.
Quite simple. Yes. Good.
I shall send a letter to America, to the President, informing him of our problem.
What is the size of our army, now?
Eight thousand, five hundred, soldiers and officers. We have recently requested mortars, antiaircraft guns and ammunition from India. We have several hundred in the area.
Has anyone died?
The radio contact said one officer had died. Then he said, "The Chinese soldiers  they are coming." And then, the radio went dead.
One country did sponsor the resolution. A land called "El Salvador".
Where is that?
In the Americas.
Your prime minsters would argue that such negotiations should take place in Lhasa.
And then they would concede that the times are desperate and we must go to Peking. Agreed. Send Ngabo. Is that all?
It is unlikely. America, perhaps. There is great anticommunist feeling in America.
At this point, the most likely result of a foreign pact is war.
The Chinese would see such a pact as an open declaration of war.
Tibet, at war? No. China is close, America is far away. After countless people die, China would still, always, be close. We will work with what we have.
I am scared.
Shall we consult the protective deities, Holiness?
My first and foremost duty is to protect my people. I feel sure of this. And, things change. Maybe not right away, maybe not soon. But I believe this  things will change.
Did you ever doubt it?
I had relinquished doubt.
I ask them to stop, to lay down their guns.
The Khamba's gun is his most prized possession. I admire them so. They face a modern, well equipped army, and still, they fight.
Land reform is underway in Amdo. The large estates are being confiscated and redistributed. Landlords are being punished.
A beggar can be called a landlord if he disapproves of the Chinese.
I have always asked for plain information. Just the truth.
The Communists put their guns in the hands of the Khamba children and force the child to kill the parent. They have dropped bombs on the monastery of Lithang in Kham. It has been destroyed. Women and children, trying to escape from the fighting, have been shot with machine guns, fired from airplanes.
The pursuit of nonviolence. Very difficult.
Nonviolence means cooperation when it is possible. Resistance, when it is not.
They will take Lhasa next.
The people will not allow it.
The crowd will not disperse until you give your assurance that you will not attend the Chinese festivities. Many who have been invited to dine with the Chinese do not return home.
I will not go.
I will alert the Chinese delegation. You know, I would never have let you go alone, Kundun.
We are now accused of aiding the rebels. The Chinese said we can expect drastic measures to be taken to crush this revolt.
Arrange for me to speak to the people's leaders.
Can I save the sheep from going to the market? So they don't die.
You could buy them.
Do I have money?
What do you think?
Do you have money?
You can't do anything real until you are Dalai Lama.
I am him.
Not until you are eighteen.
The Four Noble Truths, as taught by the Lord Sakyamuni Buddha are: The Truth of Suffering The Truth of the Cause of Suffering, The Truth of the Cessation of Suffering, the Truth of the Way which leads to the cessation of Suffering.
I accept it. What is suffering?
True suffering arises from contaminated actions and afflictions. Birth, illness, grief, old age, poverty, pain, death  these are surferings.
I accept it. What are the causes of suffering?
The causes of suffering arise from true sources. Attachment, desire, envy, hatred, greed, unkindness, wrong view and so forth  these are some causes of suffering.
I need to squeeze this brain.
Answer.
Oh, no. Where will he go?
Far, far away.
Your father had been very sick.
He had been sick from the time you began growing in me. We thought he would die.
Cow.
Yes. A cow had died. One night, you stopped all your moving, and I said to your sister, "His time has come."
Me. First break of day.
At dawn, you were born. One eye was closed, and your sister opened it with her thumb. We gave you the sweet drink.
I pooped.
You did. We washed you and wrapped you in sheepskin and took you to your father. That day the father got better. And that day, a pair of crows came to nest in our roof. I just remembered.
I miss my brother.
I miss him too.
I will be back in a few days.
How many?
Two.
This many?
Yes, yes. Your brothers are here.
Who am I?
We do not know.
He has been imprisoned, here in the Potala, Holiness.
The Sera monks have surrendered?
It is calm.
Very complicated, Holiness. Let me tell you current news. The Chinese have launched a deceptive campaign aimed at convincing the world that Tibet belongs to China. We sent a mission to the Chinese National Conference. Our attendance was a grave mistake.
The Tibetans were introduced as delegates from the "Chinese region of Tibet". We protested this reference and demanded a letter rebutting it.
Did you receive the letter?
We did not.
Of the Tibetan delegations sent abroad, all have been turned away.
All?
And the United Nations? Surely?
The United Nations voted not to hear our appeal.
So, we must face China and all her might alone.
Yes. Most of the Chamdo region is now in Chinese hands. There is a report from Chamdo which makes quite clear that, unless some settlement can soon be reached, Communist troops will soon be marching on Lhasa.
With much bloodshed.
I am afraid.
I want at all costs to avoid this. Do we have news from the delegation in China?
Not yet, but the Governor of Chamdo, Ngabo Jigme, suggests we must negotiate and offers to go to Peking.
He is a capable man.
Yes.
Time to study.
Ngabo did not have the state seal. He could not sign.
Yes, but they say he did.
Holiness?
Yes.
General Chiang Chinwu, the Chinese representative, is en route to Dromo. He is coming to meet you.
Then, we shall meet.
Your Prime Ministers, support the proposal that you return to Lhasa. On the opposite hand, some officials urge you not to return. They believe you should leave now, for India.
If I were to go into exile, could we expect any serious assistance, from India, suppose?
Dalai Lama.
General Chiang.
We bring greetings from Chairman Mao.
Thank you. Please sit.
Have you heard the terms of the Seventeen Point Agreement?
I have.
I have a copy for you.
Do you have plans to return soon, Dalai Lama?
Soon.
Good. Our first request is that you allow us to build a road. You have no roads in Tibet. We can discuss the plans in Lhasa. When you return.
You must also do something about the public meetings. I see this, memorandum circulating, with Tibetan grievances.
You have cracked a man's skull and that crack has not healed. It is too soon to expect him to be your friend.
We are simply respecting the terms of the Seventeen Point Agreement.
Are you, General?
We want 2,000 more tons of barley distributed.
Impossible! You will bring famine down on the people of Tibet with these insatiable demands! More food, the best land for your soldiers to camp.
The People's Liberation Army pays for all food and lodging.
So far, they do. But, the quantity, it does not exist. You will have to reevaluate your needs.
How much tea do you drink, Prime Minister?
It depends on the quality. And, that it be Indian.
Why is it necessary for the Chinese to keep so many soldiers in Lhasa?
To protect. To serve you. Chairman Mao wants you to feel that China belongs to you now.
Chairman Mao can keep China. Just give us back Tibet.
Plans for absorbing the Tibetan army into the People's Army will soon be finalized.
I will not approve it.
Then, we will begin with replacing the Tibetan flag with the flag of the Motherland.
And we will begin with tearing it down.
I am sorry, Lhamo.
It is alright, Father.
Not the way to talk to people.
Can I do anything I want?
No.
But, I am in charge.
Are you? Of whom?
I do, now.
And you have horses? You love horses.
I do, beautiful horses. Thank you, Holiness.
Will you buy the sheep for me?
Where will you keep them?
Here. We'll collect them.
I will buy them for you.
Can I free the prisoners?
Hmmm.
Goodbye, Kundun.
No!
Mama, my story.
Again?
Tell me.
Your father had been very ill, we thought he would die, and some animals had died.
Cow.
You were a beautiful baby. So calm.
No cried?
And that day, your father got better. He named you Lhamo. "The Protector."
I know.
We must go, Holiness.
A moment.
Please, come, Holiness.
Yes. I am ready.
All quiet?
Yes, Holiness.
Where are you from?
Kham, Holiness.
Your people are very brave. They are fighting the Chinese. No one can stop them. Not even me.
Khambas are wild men.
I worry about them.
Do not worry, Holiness. They fight for you. They are under your protection.
Huh.. .Hello?
All right, Thelma...That's it. I've had it. You can call your good friend Joanna Kramer and tell her enough is enough, okay? I mean, I don't know what I did, but you can tell her she's made her point.
Ted, what are you talking about?!
Don't play innocent with me, Thelma. You know perfectly well what's going on.
Ted, I don't understand a word you're saying. Where's Joanna?
Ha! You tell me.
All right, Thelma, you want to know what's going on? I'll tell you what's going on. I'll tell you exactly what's going on.
Look, Ted, all I
I came home tonight. We just got the Fire and Ice account at the agency. Do you know what that means?! Do you understand what that means? It means that it was maybe one of the five best days in my whole life.
Ted, all I wanted to know was where
I walk in the house and before I can say "How are you?", "Did you have a nice day?" before I can say anything. Pow she's out the door.
OhmyGod. Didn't she say anything? She must've said something.
Yeah, she said it wasn't any use talking anymore.
Ted, don't be so hostile.
Hostile? Me? Thelma, I'm not hostile. I am anything but hostile. But if you want to know what I am. I'll tell you what I am. What I am is, I am hurt. I am very hurt. And I just want to know one thing, okay? Just one thing ...Why? That's all I want to know...Why?
Ted, Joanna and I used to talk a lot and...well, she told me a lot of...ah, things about the two of you.
Things? What kind of things?
I mean...things. Ted, Joanna's very unhappy and
Listen, Joanna Kramer's got a goddamn good life. She's got a husband that loves her. She's got a terrific kid. She's got a wonderful home
What d'you know about how Joanna felt? You went off to an office every morning and you'd come dragging home at seven or eight every night and as long as dinner was on the table you thought everything was swell.
Did it ever occur to you guys that Joanna Kramer's not the easiest person in the world to live with?! Did it?! For one thing she's always thirty minutes late. You can set your watch by it
Two. She is getting to be a real hermit or recluse or whatever it is you call it. Thelma, do you know where I could be in this business if I had a wife that entertained or went out socially
Oh for shit's sake, Ted, you are the most selfish human being I have ever met. No wonder she said you came first, then Billy, then, if there was anything left over, she got the scraps.
Joanna said that?
Then how come she never said anything like that to me?
Maybe she didn't feel like she should have to. Maybe she felt like if you'd been paying any real attention to her to start with, maybe you would've noticed.
Boy, you guys are really something, y'know? I'd like to know one thing, okayjust one little thing. Did you tell Joanna she should leave me?
No.
Y'know something Thelmayou are the typhoid Mary of divorce. I mean it. Joanna and I never had any trouble until you and Charley split up.
Ted, divorce is a terrible thing. I know, I went through it. You've got to believe I did everything I could to get Joanna to stay. But I'll tell you something. You may not want to hear it, but it took a lot of courage for Joanna to do what she just did.
I'd like to know what the hell kind of courage it takes to walk out on your husband and your child?
What are you going to do?
I don't know, Thel...This whole thing has happened so...Pow, like that.
I mean, what are you going to do about Billy?
I'm gonna keep him, why?
Look, this is nothing personal, but I don't think you can do it.
Thelma, I've lost my wife, I'm not losing my child.
All right...Okay...But let's get something straight, right now. I mean, I'm sorry about what happened between you and Joanna, but it's not my problem, understand?
I've got enough trouble raising my own kid. I don't need another one. Got it?
Got it.
You're on your own, understand?
I understand.
You're sure?
I'm sure.
Wait a minute! Wait a minute!
Lenox Hill. 77th Street between Park and Lex. The emergency number is 3270800.
Slow down...Slow down...
You ever think about getting married again?
No, not really... I guess it's different if you don't have children, but...I dunno, even if Charley and I don't live together, even if we're sleeping with other people, even if Charley was to marry again...He'd still be my husband. That stuff about "Till death do you part?" That's really true.
How many onions does it say to use?
Three. And add some basil.
D'you think you and Charley'll ever get back together again?
No. I don't think so.
C'mon, Thel. So Charley had a little fling. So what? All in all he was a pretty good husband.
Look, I know this isn't gonna make any sense, okay? I mean forget the logic part...But I keep thinking if Charley really loved me, he wouldn't have let me divorce him.
Thel, you ever hear from Joanna?
Not for a couple of months. The last time I heard from her she was living in San Francisco.
California?
Uh, huh...She said she had a good job, was playing a lot of tennis. She wanted to know all about Billy.
She ever ask about me?
Uh, huh...Yeah...
What d'you tell her?
I told her you're doing a
He's okay...Thel, can I ask you a favor?
Sure.
I don't mean a little favor. mean a big F favor.
Thelma, if I die
What?
I didn't say I'm going to die, but if I should
Don't say that! I don't want to hear you say that!
Thel, listen to me. If, on the million to one shot that I should That anything should happen to me. Would you take care of Billy?
Me?! You want me to take care of Billy?!
I thought about it a lot and you're the only person I know that I trust with him. I mean, if anything happened to me, he'd be okay with you. You're a good mother.
You heard anything yet?
Any day.
Ted.
Uh, huh...
Ah, Charley and I are...Well, we're thinking about...I mean, actually we're sort of talking about maybe getting back together.
You and Charley?
Hey, that's terrific.
Maybe. I said maybe. What I mean is, ah...I don't think it'll really work out, but Charley seems to want it, so...
Please go away, Thel...I...I just have to be by myself for a little while...
Ted, I just heard...
Please, Thel...
Your boy is very lucky, Mr. Kramer. One inch over and it would have caught the eye.
But I'm going to have to take some stitches.
How many?
Ten.
Now, I'd advise you to wait outside. It'll be eas
No.
Mr. Kramer, there's
Fuck you. He's my son. I'm staying with him.
Ted? They've set the court date. I just heard today...It's... January sixth.
Oh, Christ.. .John, there's some thing I ought to tell you. My... ah, situation has...changed. I lost my job.
John?
Ted, I won't lie to you, we don't have a hope in hell of winning a custody hearing if you're out of work.
Good Christ, Joanna, just get the hell out of my life.
Ted? Are you there?
Yeah.
Any prospects?
Don't worry. I plan to have something within twentyfour hours, John.
How the hell are you going to do that?
I don't know.
What?! She wants what?!
She's the mother. That means she's within her legal rights.
John, what if she kidnaps him.
You ever see her talk to the walls?
No, but
Then you don't have a choice. Have Billy at the Seventy Fifth Street entrance to Central Park, Saturday at ten.
Mrs. Phillips, how long have you known Ted Kramer?
Six years. Ever since Ted and Joanna moved into the building.
How often do you see Mr. Kramer and his son?
Charley, my husband, and I are ...divorced and Kim, that's our daughter is about Billy's age and the children play together a lot. So, I guess we see each three or four times a week.
Can you describe the relationship between Mr. Kramer and his son?
It's beautiful. It's just beautiful. They have a beautiful relationship.
Look, she walked out on her own child, right? That's desertion, right? Mr. Shaunessy, I'm telling you it's an open and shut case.
First, there's no such thing as an open and shut case. Especially where custody is involved. Got it?
That's if we win. If we lose, you could end up having to pay your wife's court costs as well.
Fine.
Good. You've hired yourself a hell of a lawyer, Mr. Kramer. How old is the child?
Six.
Look, Ted, I don't honestly think she would go to the trouble of suing you for custody of the child if she was planning on kidnapping him.
I don't know, John...I mean, to be brutally honest, I'm not so sure what kind of mental shape Joanna's in right now. Y'know she admitted she was seeing a shrink.
Jesus Christ. Did you have to be so rough on her?
Do you want the kid or don't you?
Mr. Kramer, would you tell the court exactly why you want to retain custody of your child.
When Joanna my exwifewhen she was talking before about how unhappy she was during our marriage...Well, I guess most of what she said was probably true. There were a lot of things I didn't understand a lot of things I would do different if I could. Just like I guess there are a lot of things Joanna wishes she could change...But we can't. Some things, once they are done, can't be undone. Joanna says she loves Billy. I believe she does. So do I. But the way it was explained to me, that's not the issue. The only thing that's supposed to matter here is what's best for Billy...When Joanna said why shouldn't a woman have the same ambitions as a man, I suppose she's right. But by the same token what law is it that says a woman is a better parent simply by virtue of her sex? I guess I've had to think a lot about whatever it is that makes somebody a good parent:
Oh, Christ!
The judge went for motherhood straight down the line.
I lost him? I lost him?
I can't tell you how sorry I am.
Oh, no..
Ordered, adjudged and decreed that the petitioner be awarded custody of the minor child, effective Monday the 23rd of January. That the respondent pay for the maintenance and support of said child, four hundred dollars each month. That the father shall have the following rights of visitation: every other weekend, one night each week to be mutually agreed upon and one half of the child's vacation period. That's it.
What if I fight it?
We can appeal, but I can't guarantee anything.
I'll take my chances.
It's going to cost.
Don't worry. I'll get the money.
Mr. O'Connor called. There's a meeting with the Revlon people in the board room and you're fifteen minutes late.
I know....I know.
Mr. Schmidt can't have the figures on the television buy until Monday.
No. Uh, uh. Tell him I asked for it Friday. I want it Friday. Period.
Mr. Lombardo from packaging wants to meet on Friday.
Fine.
What?
Walk him over to Bethesda Fountain, buy him an ice. It'll kill twenty minutes.
I've got a lot more than twenty minutes to kill.
Tough... ...I get off duty at fivethirty. How long you been divorced?
Three months. How can you tell?
You've got that look. My lady and I split two years ago in August and I'm an old pro at this shit. First thing, stay away from the Children's Zoo. It's pure hellif I never see another chicken, I'll be happy. I'm here, darling. Don't worry...
Hiya, Phyllis. These are the Revlon contracts. I thought you ought to check them out.
Sure.
Yes.
Yes, what?
Yes, I'll have dinner with you.
Kramer, I've got to go. I've got an eight o'clock closing tomorrow down on Centre Street.
Mmmmnph...I'll get you a cab...
And?
He wanted to know if I liked fried chicken.
Do you?
Okay, Phyllis, what's up?
Kramer...
O'Connor's out to get you. He's going to take the Fire and Ice account away from you.
What?!?
You want to know why? I'll tell you why... Another scotch and soda for the gentleman. I'll tell you exactly why. Because you're not his buddy anymore. Because he can't count on you to sit around the office every night until eight or nine and shoot the shit with him.
I can't. I've got Billy to take care of.
You dope. O'Connor doesn't give a damn about Billy. All he wants is somebody that'll hang around with him every night so he won't have to go home.
I don't believe you.
How should I know?
Murray.
So...what's so terrible about that?
Oh, for God's sake, Kramer. You have got to be the world's most naive human being. Murray has gone in and changed every single ad you've done on the entire Fire and Ice campaign. Every layout...Every idea...Every single thing, right down the line.
No. No, I don't believe it. Jim O'Connor would never let anything like that happen. He gave me my shot in this business. If it wasn't for Jim O'Connor I'd beI don't know where I'd be. He's a wonderful man...
Kramer, I'm sorry. All I was trying to do was
I don't want to hear another word against him. Not another word. He's a wonderful man ...a wonderful man...
So, naturally, you assume that since Joanna left, that would be a compelling point against her, right?
Right.
But it doesn't work that way. A major decision was handed down by the Appellate Court in 1969in the case of Haskins vs. Haskins.
Kramer
Now in Haskins vs. Haskins the court ruled in favor of the mother, thus establishing a precedent for awarding the child to the mother even though she previously abandoned the baby.
Kramer...There's something I ought to tell you.
Yeah?
I've been offered a job in Washington with H.E.W.
And?
I'm going to take it.
It's a very good jobtoo good to pass up. I'll be handling funding for the whole... Look, I... ..."like" you a lot. And you... ..."like" me, okay? Maybe if it was a year from now, maybe things would be different...
But it's not a year from now, is it?
Ted, will you take it easy? Revlon's not about to drop an account that represents more than two million in gross billing receipts in a small agency like this, without making us sweat. Now just relax, okay? Everything's gonna be fine.
I don't think so, Jim. Maybe I shouldn't have
Hey, what's the rush? C'mon, walk me a couple of blocks.
Jim, I've got to go. I'm already late
Listen, Ted...I just want to tell you, when old man Schmidt retires next year, I've got a pretty
Wow!
I mean it Ted, you're running this one.
Jesus Christ. That's a real blockbuster. I always figured you guys had it made.
You want to know the real kicker? The real kicker is, for the first time in my life the first timeI feel like a loser.
Listen, don't let it get you down. You're going to be fine.
Me? I've never been better. I mean having my wife walk out on me after seven years of marriage agrees with me just fine.
Look, Ted, I'm the oldest whore on the beat, okay? Three marriages, two divorces...You're gonna be okay.
I'm going to be okay. The way I see it, Joanna'll come home, it's just a matter of time.
She'll be back...
But...just in case...I mean, just on the off chance she doesn't. What are you going to do about the kid?
I don't know, Jim. This whole thing has happened so...Pow like that.
Look, it's none of my business, so you can tell me to butt out, okay? But if you want my advice, you'll send Billy away to stay with relatives for a while. Just until you get yourself straightened out.
I don't know, Jim...
Ted, this may sound a little rough, but we've just landed the biggest account in the history of this agency, right? And now it's up to usthat's you and me to deliver the goods. Ted, you're my main man, and if I can't depend on you a hundred and ten percent, twentyfour hours a day, because you're worried about a kid with a runny nose
Jim, I appreciate what you're saying. I mean it, but I really think Joanna's coming back.
'Night, Jim.
Hey, Ted. C'mon in. I wanna' talk to you.
What the hell is this?
Murray had some ideas about the Fire and Ice campaign and he had the art department make up a few roughs... I think they're kind of interesting.
I don't. Jim, this isn't anything like what we talked about. It's not even close.
All right, Jim. You said I was running this show, right? You said no decisions without my approval, right? Well what the hell is this? What's going on, Jim?
Well, ah...I thought it over and I decided we're doing it Murray's way.
Jim, this is garbage. This isn't anything like what we talked to Revlon about. None of it. You can't
That's my decision, Ted and that's final.
Disappointing. It only pulled a fourteen share and they were hoping for a twentyfive minimum, and...ah...they're not very happy and...Well, the guys have decided they want to...ah, rethink the entire concept and...Look, I don't like having to do this, okay?... But...I mean, what I mean is...ah, I'm going to have to...ah, let you go
Are you firing me, Jim?
I thought you might just like to know that at fivefifteen this afternoon we were officially handed the Fire and Ice account by Revlon.
Ted, I'm leaving you.
That represents a gross billing in excess of two million What?!
My American Express...My Bloomingdale's Credit Card... My check book
Okay, okay...What is it this time? What did I do now?...
I took two thousand out of the savings account. That was what I had in the bank when we got married.
Joanna, whatever it is, believe me, I'm sorry.
Here are the slips for the laundry and the cleaning. They'll be ready on Saturday.
Now listen, before you do something you'll really regret you'd better stop and think
I've paid the rent, the ConEd and the phone bill, so you don't have to worry about them.
Look, it's not your fault, okay? It's me. It's my faultyou just married the wrong person.
So we've got problems. Everybody's got problemsthat's normal
Ted, you're not listening to me. It's over, finished.
I'm listening, Joannabelieve me, I'm listening. My wife is walking out on me after eight years of
You just don't get it, do you? I  am  really  and  truly  leaving  you.
I heard you, Joanna. I promise I heard you.
No you didn't. You didn't even ask about Billy.
What about Billy?
I'm not taking him with me.
What?
Ted, I can't...I tried...I really tried but...I just can't hack it anymore...
C'mon, Joanna, you don't mean that. You're a terrific mother
I am not! I'm a terrible mother! I'm an awful mother. I yell at him all the time. I have no patience. No...No. He's better off without me. Ted, I've got to go...I've got to go.
Okay, I understand and I promise I won't try and stop you, but you can't just go...Look, come inside and talk...Just for a few minutes.
NO!...Please...Please don't make me stay...I swear...If you do, sooner or later...maybe tomorrow, maybe next week...maybe a year from now... I'll go right out the window.
Where are you going?
I don't know...
Hello, Ted. You look well.
So do you.
How's the new job?
Fine.
Look at us, Joanna. Just like any old married couple having dinner. Who would believe it.
Yes...How's Billy?
I can't help but feel somehow... it's my fault. I keep thinking I could've done something stopped it...
You can't tell it from a distance, Ted.
I've seen him.
You have?
A few times. Sometimes I sit in that coffee shop across the street and watch when you take him to school.
He looks like a terrific kid.
He is... You sat in that coffee shop across from school
Watching my son...Ted, I've been living in New York for the past two months.
You've been living here, in the city?
Ted...The reason I wanted to see you...I want Billy back.
You want what?!
I want my son. I'm through sitting in coffee shops looking at him from across the street. I want my son.
Are you out of your mind?! You're the one that walked out on him, remember?
Ted, listen to me...You and I, we had a really crappy marriage Look, don't get so defensive, okay? It was probably as much my fault as it was yours... Anyway when I left I was really screwed up
Joanna, I don't give a
Ted, all my life I'd either been somebody's daughter or somebody's wife, or somebody else's mother. Then all of a sudden, I was a thirtytwoyearold, highly neurotic woman who had just walked out on her husband and child. I went to California because that was about as far away as I could get. Only... I guess it wasn't far enough. So I started going to a shrink. Ted, I've had time to think. I've been through some changes. I've learned a lot about myself.
Such as?
Joanna, go be a mother. Get married, have kids. Don't get married, have kids. Do whatever you want. I don't give a damn. Just leave me out of itand leave my baby out of it.
Ted, if you can't discuss this rationally
Joanna, go fuck yourself!
I'm sorry...I just mentioned it in passing. I never thought he'd use it.
Yeah, well he did, didn't he.
Please, Ted. I never would have brought it up if I thought
I'm not interested, Joanna. Goodbye.
Okay, I'm here. Now why did you
Ted, do you love him?
Goddamnit, Joanna. What the
Ted, do you love him?
Ted, when we got married it was because I was twentyseven years old and I thought I should get married and...when I had Billy it was because I thought I should have a baby...and I guess all I did was mess up my life and your life and
Joanna, what the hell is
Please...Please don't stop me. This is the hardest thing I've ever had to do..
After I left...when I was in California, I began to think, what kind of mother was I that I could walk out on my own child. It got to where I couldn't tell anybody about BillyI couldn't stand that look in their faces when I said he wasn't living with me. Finally it seemed like the most important thing in the world to come back here and prove to Billy and to me and to the world how much I loved him...And I did ...And I won. Only...it was just another "should." ...Sitting in that courtroom. Hearing everything you did, everything you went through... Something happened. I guess it doesn't matter how much I love him, or how much you love him. I guess it's like you said, the only thing that counts is what's best for Billy. I don't know, maybe that's all love is anyway... Ted, I think Billy should stay with you...
What?
He's already got one mother, he doesn't need two...He's yours... I won't fight you for him any more. He's yours...
Oh, God...Oh, my God...
Only can I still see him?
No more waiting in Coffee Shops ...I promise.
Okay...I think I'll go talk to my son now. How do I look?
Beautiful.
Now then, Mrs. Kramer, you said you were married seven years. Is that correct?
Yes.
In all that time did your husband ever strike you or abuse you physically in any way.
No.
Did your husband strike or physically abuse his child in any way?
No.
Would you describe your husband as an alcoholic?
No.
A heavy drinker?
No.
Was he unfaithful?
No.
Did he ever fail to provide for you?
No.
Well, I can certainly understand why you left him.
I don't recall.
How many lovers have you had permanently?
I don't recall.
More than three, less than thirty threepermanently?
Somewhere in between.
Do you have a lover now?
Is that...permanent?
I...I don't know...
Then, we don't really know, do we, when you say "permanently" if you're planning to remain in New York, or even to keep the child for that matter, since you've never really done anything in your life that was continuing, stable, that could be regarded as permanent.
Whom you've seen twice in a year? Mrs. Kramer, your exhusband, wasn't he the longest personal relationship in your life?
I suppose...
Would you speak up, Mrs. Kramer? I couldn't hear you.
Yes.
How long was that?
We were married two years before the baby. And then four very difficult years.
So, you were a failure at the longest, most important relationship in your life.
I was not a failure.
Oh? What do you call it then a success? The marriage ended in divorce.
I consider it less my failure than his.
Congratulations, Mrs. Kramer. You have just rewritten matrimonial law. You were both divorced, Mrs. Kramer.
Were you?
Yes.
Ummm, hmmm... umm, hmmm... Well, this looks very good.. Of course ... you understand this is the worst time of the year to look for a job.
What?! What do you mean, I don't understand.
Mr. Kramer, nobody even thinks about leaving their job until after they get their Christmas bonus.
Look, you don't understand. I need a job. I've got a kid and
I understand and I'm absolutely sure something wonderful will turn up.... ...after the first of the year.
There might be something at J. Walter Thompson. But... ...I don't think they're really serious. The position's been open for two months and... They may just be on a fishing expedition. I'm sure you'll be much happier if you wait until after the first
Call up the people at J. Walter Thompson. Set up an appointment at four.
Mister Kramer, it's... ...almost four now. It's the Friday before Christmas. Nobody is going to want to
Either you call and set up the appointment, or I'll call. And if I call, you lose the commission.
My, we are a hot shot aren't we?
Now then, Mr. O'Connor, how long did Ted Kramer work for you?
Eight, almost nine years.
And did you have a close personal relationship?
Yes...
And how did you find his work?
It was good. He was a hard worker, a lot of drive, a real hustler.
And yet you fired him.
Ted was a good worker. But, ah... ... after his wife left him and he was taking care of the kid on his own, things started to change. Look, I know he had problems, I understand that. I've got problems, everybody's got problems. But I've got a shop to run, I can't let that kind of thing get in the way... I guess I felt that Ted was letting his duties at home interfere with his responsibilities in the office.
Thank you. I have no further questions.
Objection.
How long do you plan to live in New York, Mrs. Kramer?
Objection!
Your honor, I would request a direct answer to a direct question. Does she have a lover?
Mrs. Kramer, how can you consider yourself a fit mother when you have been a failure at virtually every relationship you have undertaken as an adult?
Objection!
Objection!
Your honor, I'd like to ask what this model of stability and respectability has ever succeeded at? Mrs. Kramer, were you a failure at the longest, most important personal relationship in your life?
Objection, your honor. The answer is, to be generous, very vague.
Can you recall any particular incident that relates to Mr. Kramer's care of his child?
No further questions. Thank you Mrs. Phillips.
No questions.
So do I.
Objection!
Objection, your honor! Counsel is harassing the witness.
Your honor, I'm only examining the man's employment record. He pretends to fitness when he cannot hold a job.
Objection! Your honor, counsel is raising a question that is not germane to these proceedings.
While the child was in the care of the witness, he cut his face badly and is now scarred.
Now then, Mrs. Kramer, would you tell the court how long you were married?
Six years.
And would you describe those years as happy?
The first couple, yes, but after that it became increasingly difficult.
Mrs. Kramer, did you ever work in a job while you were married to your exhusband?
No, I did not.
Did you wish to?
Yes. I tried to talk to Ted my exhusbandabout it, but he wouldn't listen. He refuses to discuss it in any serious way. I remember one time he said I probably couldn't get a job that would pay enough to hire a baby sitter for Billy.
Tell me, Mrs. Kramer, are you employed at the present time?
Yes, I work for Jantzen as a sportswear designer.
And what is your present salary?
I make thirtyone thousand dollars a year.
Mrs. Kramer, do you love your child?
Yes. Very much.
And yet you chose to leave him?
Yes...Look, during the last five years we were married, I had...I was getting more and more...unhappy, more and more frustrated. I needed to talk to somebody. I needed to find out if it was me, if I was going crazy or what. But every time I turned to Tedmy exhusband, he couldn't handle it. He became very...I don't know, very threatened. I mean, when ever I would bring up anything he would act like it was some kind of personal attack. Anyway, we became more and more separate ...more and more isolated from one another. Finally, I had no other choice, I had to leave. And because of my exhusband's attitudehis unwillingness to deal with my feelings, I had come to have almost no self esteem... At the time I left, I sincerely believed that there was something wrong with methat my son would be better off without me. It was only when I got to California and started into therapy I began to realize I wasn't a terrible person. And that just because I needed some creative and emotional outlet other than my child, that didn't make me unfit to be a mother.
Your honor, I would like to place in evidence a report on Mrs. Kramer's therapy by her therapist, Dr. Elinore Freedman of La Jolla, California.
Mr. Kramer, why did you set up residence in New York?
Because my son is here. And his father is here. As a mother, I don't want my child to be separated from his father.
Mrs. Kramer, can you tell the court why you are asking for custody?
Objection!
Overruled. The witness will answer, please.
Objection! I must ask that the counsel be prevented from harassing the witness.
Sustained.
Objection!
Overruled.
Sustained.
Mr. Kramer, isn't it true that you were fired from your last job not more than six weeks ago?
Are you introducing the question of negligence here, counselor?
Yes, your honor.
I see. Well, you'll have to do better than that. Do you have any affidavits to support negligence?
I do not, your honor, however
This is an isolated incident, counselor, unless you can prove otherwise.
Does the witness deny the injury took place?
No, counselor, I'm going to over rule you on this line of questioning.
Then I have concluded my questions.
Huh?...Oh God...What time is it?
The little hand is on the six and the big hand is on the nine. Where is mommy?
Oh, Christ...Ah, yeah...you want to know why mom's not here, right?
When is mommy coming back?
Soon. Very soon.
I'll tell you what, kiddowhy don't I fix us some French toast?
Wow! French toast, really?
Sure. Didn't I ever tell you French toast was my specialty? I'll bet I never told you that. Now then, the first thing we need is... ... eggs! Right?
You forgot the milk.
That's right. You're absolutely right...It's been a long time since I made French toast.
What about my orange juice?
Right. One O.J. coming up.
When is mommy coming back?
Soon. I told you before, very soon.
Will she pick me up after school?
No. If I'm not here, you go home with Thelma and Kim.
What if she forgets?
I'll call Thelma and remind her, okay? Don't worry.
Uh, huh...
You got a letter from mom.
You're late.
I'm sorry, pal, but I had a meeting and
Goodbye.
Okay...Same as usual...
Billy, don't eat with your fingers.
Sorry.
Well, I see the Yankees finally won a game.
Mom, I mean dad?
Yeah?
Can I be excused? I'm not hungry.
Sure. Too much birthday cake, right?
I guess...
Mom, I mean dad...
Uh huh...
That's not the right soap. We use the kind in the green and yellow box.
C'mon, there's not much difference
We use the green and yellow.
Mom, I mean dad...
In a minute...
You get a new fence.
C'mon, Billy. I'm trying to work for God's sake...
I'm sorry.
Jesus Christ! I catch all kind of shit at the office because I'm not pulling my weight because I'm busting my butt trying to be a decent goddamn father and
I'm sorry.
That's terrific. That's really terrific, but I notice I'm the one that's cleaning up this Oh, crap, I'll have to do this one over.
I'm sorry.
Look, I'm sorry I yelled, okay?
That's okay.
It's just...I've been catching a lot of flack at the office...
That's okay...
Salisbury steak.
I hate it.
You don't hate it. We had Salisbury steak last week and you liked it fine.
No I didn't. I hate the brown stuff. It's gross.
All it is is onions and gravy.
I'm allergic to onions.
You are not allergic of onions.
I want a pizza.
No. This is fine. Just take a bite, you'll like it fine.
I think I'm going to throw up.
Oh, for God's sake...Here.
There, okay? Now that's just plain old hamburger.
Some of the brown stuff is still there.
Then eat around it.
No.
Now listen to me, young man. Do you know what I had to go through to put this goddamn food on the goddamn table?
I don't care. I hate it. I want pizza.
Not on your life. That's it. I've had it with crap around this house. From now on, no more pizza! Get it? Starting right now you can eat real food like a normal human being!
No!
Owwww...You're hurting me... You're hurting me...I hate you ...I hate you...
You're no bargain either, pal.
I want my mommy...I want my mommy..
I want my...mm...ommy...I want mmmy...mommy...
Tough shit. You're stuck with me.
Daddy?
Yeah?
I'm sorry...
That's okay, pal. Go back to sleep. It's very late.
Daddy?
Uh huh?
Are you...gonna go...away?
Is mom ever coming back?
You mean for good?
I don't think so.
Oh...
Now go to sleep. It's very late.
Good night.
Sleep tight.
Don't let the bedbugs bite.
See you in the morning light.
Dad?
Yes?
I love you...
Ohhh...Ohhhh...Ohhhhh...
It's okay, son...I'm here... Just a little more to go... Don't worry, son...I'm here...
Sleep tight. Don't let the bedbugs bite...
See you in the morning light...
Billy. This is Dr. Alvarez. She would like to talk to you.
Sure.
Objection. You're leading the witness.
Sure.
Objection.
Sure. Lots of times.
See. That's my name.
It's my name too.
Right.
Wow!
You like it?
Is this really your desk?
Yep.
Is that really your chair?
Uh huh...
Wow! That's neat. Can I sit in it?
Sure.
Did mommy ever see this?
No, she never did.
Are you going to get remarried?
I don't know. I hadn't thought much about it.
Are you going to remarried Phyllis?
No.
No, son. Daddy and mommy will never get remarried.
Boy, I bet you if mommy ever saw this she'd remarried you.
MomI mean, dad?
Uh, huh?
What did you do when you were little?
I guess about the same kind of things you do.
Did you watch "I Dream of Jeannie?"
Uh, uh...We didn't have television then.
Was there apple juice when you were little?
Yeah, there was apple juice.
Was there Burger King?
Uh, uh. There was no such a thing as Burger King.
What else wasn't there?
Daddy! You're home early. Did you get fired again?
No, son, I didn't get fired. I'll tell you what we'll do, okay? How about if we go to a Burger King and then we watch a little T.V. and then we get packed to go to the country tomorrow. Just you and me...How 'bout that?
Billy, sometimes when a mother and a father are divorced, there's a discussion about who the child should live with, the mother or the father. Now there is a man who is very wise. He's called a judge. And a judge has a lot of experience with divorces and he decides who it would be best for the child to live with.
Why does he decide?
Because...Well, that's what he does. He's a very powerful man.
Like a principal?
Bigger than a principal. The judge sits in robes in a big chair.. The judge has thought a lot about us, about you and me and your mom, and he has decided... ...he has decided that it would be best for you to live with your mom Joanna in her apartment. And I'm very lucky. Because even though you'll live with your mom Joanna I'll get to see you once a week for dinner and a couple of weekends a month.
I don't understand, daddy.
What don't you understand, pal?
Where will my bed be, where will I sleep?
At your mom's. She'll have a bed for you in your own room.
Where will my toys be?
I'll send your toys there and I'm sure you'll get some new ones.
Who will read me my stories?
Your mom.
Daddy, what if The Face comes when I'm at mommy's?
Your mom knows all about The Face, okay? Don't worry, she'll tell The Face to beat it.
Will you come and say goodnight to me every night?
Ladies and gentlemen...
Ladies and gentlemen...
Welcome to the greatest show on earth.
Welcome to the...
Greatest.
Greatest...
Show.
Show...
On earth.
On earth.
What do you have here, Billy?
Detroit.
No. But I've been to Brooklyn.
I see you have people there. What are their names?
That's Kim...and this one's Thelma and that's Mrs. Willewska and this is daddy and that's Batman and over there is Robin.
What about your mommy?
Oh, sure. Here, this can be mommy.
Do you like to be with your mommy?
What do you like best about her?
Lunch in a restaurant.
What do you like best about your daddy?
Playing.
Tell me, does your daddy ever hit you?
He hits me on the planet Kriptarium, when I steal the buried treasure from the famous peanut butter factory.
In real life when does he hit you?
My daddy doesn't hit me, silly. Why would my daddy hit me?
Mr. Kramer?
Yes?
I'm Dr. Alvarez, Judge Atkins asked me to look in on your son and prepare an evaluation sheet.
Oh, yes. Won't you come in.
Where is the child?
He's in his room, playing.
Good. I'll see him in there.
Mr. Kramer, do you ever have sex in here with anyone?
Doctor, I attempt to conduct my social life discreetly. At the moment I am seeing no one.
Does that distress you?
Not particularly.
What does?
The prospect of losing my child.
Very well, I'd like to see him if I may.
Are you closing the case?
No sir, we don't state that. We're countin 
Why couldn't you ever find out anything from the girl?
Trask 
The subject got emotionallv disturbed; he just dropped out. There's thousands.
Inspector we understand your position; ours is a little different. We have an investment in Tom Grunemann. The Company has an investment, and we feel entitled to investigate for ourselves.
Private investigation, you mean. Yes sir, of course you're entitled, and there's some very competent 
Klute offered us his services; we've accepted.
Klute knew Tom. He has a great many ideas about the case 
Yes sir, we know he 
We'd expect him to work in cooperation with you. He'd report to each of you and to our Company's New York office, to Pete  Pete goes there on a regular schedule back and forth, and 
Mr. Streiger, speaking frankly  we've appreciated the Sergeant's interest you know, all along. Here, locally. But New York, that's  well 
That's a lot of people to die unknown.
Unknown, unidentified and unwanted. And there's more every day man, there's more everyday.
He's right you know. Waiting for the pusher, she'd tell you anything.
I believed her: the Dumper was not Tom Grunemann.
That's how the other one died, you know. In the water.
I looked it up.
Well?
Yeah.
Think this is our guy?
I don't know. It looks familiar to me.
Thought it might. It's off an arrest report you typed two years ago. Man you wanted samples of everybody.
But what reason could he have? What possible reason?
Unless he was involved with Grunemann's disappearance.
I knew Tom never wrote that letter.
What else do you know?
I never could believe that Tom was a split personality. I never believed he was a Dumper; and I don't believe he disappeared of his own volition; and I don't believe he's alive.
We have some very tentative circumstantial evidence of freeky behavior, but there's no evidence of murder  there's not even a body.
I don't believe Tom's alive.
Gov, want to leave me that one. How come he got to play with this one, anyway.
I left them here. I was doing some work here.
It's damn lucky you didn't have the dossier on Cable here.
Nobody's seen that.
If we get anything from the lab, we'll have it by noon. And just think  all he really had to do was write us a letter.
Klute. With a K. K  L  U 
Are you with plant security, Sergeant?
Town Police.
Then how are you involved?
I know Tom Grunemann.
You knew the subject Thomas Grunemann. How well?
We grew up together. Kids.
Can you account for his disappearance in any way?
No.
Did he recently appear to you agitated or depressed?  indicates no  Did he voice to you grievance or discontent with his research work here? Indicates no. Moral or sexual problems or peculiarities? 
No.
Marital problems in general? Indicates possibly  am I right Sergeant?
Everybody's got some, I guess.
Did he ever mention specifically a girl or woman in New York?
No.
Examine this letter please. We recovered that from the shredder  the plant disposal and incinerator system. Grunemann apparently typed it Friday, before he left, decided not to send it, tossed it away. We've already contacted the New York Police; they think they know the girl in question.
But if Cable killed Grunemann why would he get you hired to look for Grunemann?
Because he knew I couldn't leave the case alone. And this way at least he'd keep track of it. And me.
What about Grunemann's letters to the girl, everything like that?
Sounds to me you better shake him again. Put him in a spot he has to do something more  but this time give him a time and a place to do it.
He called this morning from Tuscarora. Asked me to meet him at 3:00 at the downtown heliport. He's on his way to Chicago.
 Usual case history  this isn't a medical confidence, it's all of them  broken family, lonely, confused, crummy childhood, early promiscuity, formal prostitution beginning in her teens, income twentyfive to thirty thousand a year. Oh they don't keep the money: they get rid of it, they get pimps. Why? Why do you want to know all this?
I want to know how Tom Grunemann got mixed up in it.
Not unusual.
Did she talk about him to you?
About his letters  that's all she remembered. Quite violent material, I'd say, obsessive, a quite sick man. But that's not unusual either.
Has she talked with you since prison?
No. She had every good intention of it  coming to me as a private patient, getting out of the life, devoting herself to an acting career.
I think she's trying that.
Oh sure they try. The idea of a better life. But they don't really know much about life: They get confused  or scared or frustrated or bored  they pop back to the one thing they can handle. The trick. The trick. Men in bed. Not men in general, not life, not love, not even real sex  it avoids all that. Just the trick, the transaction.
I've always respected Bree. I'd like to make something clear.
I've just got a few 
I'd like to make something clear. I don't go after a girl; a girl comes to me. Her choice. Right?
I'm looking for a man. Tom Grunemann. Bree thinks he may have been the dumper  that call she had two years ago. She says you sent her on it.
Two years ago? Sorry.
They tell me you use narcotics. Could I bring someone around to look at your arms?
Look  dad  I may stand better with the cops than you.
OK, a family matter. Between the girls. I had two other cows   two other girls besides Bree.
She told me.
OK and one of them Jane McKenna  she blows a little jealous of Bree  you know?  Bree comes first? And evidently she knew the freak  that he was a dumper  she conned me into passing him to Bree, you know, so Bree'd get hurt. I didn't know. Till afterwards.
Why didn't you tell Bree, afterwards?
You don't tell them. That one of their own inlaws laid a dumper on them? Peace in the family. Beyond that, I don't know. All she wrote.
I'd like to talk with Jane McKenna.
Would I be telling you all this? She copped out long ago. She committed suicide Baxter.
John, how are you?
I'll be sending you on a report tonight.
It's a beautiful day in Tuscarora  I don't envy you that humidity in the city.
It's not so bad.
Would you like to know what's in it? The report.
What's in it?
I think Tom Grunemann's dead. I've been a lot of places  I've asked a lot of people. I've found no proof he's around. I've found no proof he was ever around.
I'm sure the FBI and the Police explored that possibility.
No. They never did, really. But that's what I'm going to recommend. The next step. Unless something 
Have you discussed this with them?
It's in the report.
Do they have the report? Have you discussed it with them?
I wanted to give it to you first.
All right. All right  John, just sit tight will you? I'll read your report, I'll discuss it with the others. I'll be back next Thursday, we'll talk the whole thing over then. Nothing til Thursday, all right?
All right.
Thank you. Goodbye, John.
Goodbye, Pete.
She wouldn't be reliable anyhow  a narcotics addict.
I believed her, Pete.
All right, suppose it wasn't Tom Grunemann; where does that get you?
It's where it doesn't get me. I've got nothing left that connects to anything.
Then, close the case.
I better keep looking.
Where, how?
I could try Arlyn Page again. She saw much more of the Dumper than Bree Daniel.
You just finished telling me she had nothing to offer. Not Tom, you said, the Dumper was clearly not Tom.
It's got to make sense some way.
I'm flying back out to Pennsylvania Friday; I'll fill them in on things.
How is it back there?
I think you're homesick. I'll be out at my camp over the weekend. Nice right now, that touch of fall in the air, that skim of frost in the early mornings, very peaceful. John, I'll be back here again Thursday; I'll be in touch. Lieutenant, thank you.
Sorry we had to meet here. But I'm pressed for time.
Well there's a couple 
I read your report. I had to go along with it  the idea of this being a wild goose chase, Tom being nowhere around 
Well as a matter of 
I've been up country, you know my summer place, my camp. I don't even have a telephone there. This morning they sent a messenger out, that you'd been trying to call me.
Yeah.
I'm on my way to Chicago. Very important meeting tonight. Well  any new developments?
Yeah, two things Pete, that 
You said Trask was arranging laboratory work. Police laboratory. Anything from that?
Yeah. It wasn't Tom.
I'm sorry. I don't understand.
It wasn't Tom that broke in the room.
It has to be Tom. You said he ripped up his own pictures, he 
Not Tom. Whoever it was left a kind of souvenir, I told you, in her clothing. Semen. The laboratory got a blood group reading from that. The man was blood type 0; Tom was an AB.
Some mistake perhaps that 
No. No mistake Pete. It doesn't prove who it was  but proves it wasn't Tom.
You must be discouraged.
Not too bad. This brings back that Dumper in the picture.
That who?
Dumper, the man Bree Daniel mentioned and Arlyn Page knew and Jane McKenna knew.
You said he was no possible connection with Tom. The Page girl told you that, not Tom.
Someone's been doing all these things.
You were hired to look for Tom, not someone.
Pete, I've got a chance to buy Jane McKenna's black book.
What?
Callgirls generally keep a book, you know, a list of their clients. Sometimes, if a girl retires, she'll even sell it worth good money. Jane McKenna had a black book; when she died it was stolen. I've been after it a long time.
You were hired to look for Tom.
I'm meeting a man tomorrow night. He wants to meet me on EastRiver Drive  he wants five hundred dollars for the book. Can you get that for me Pete?
I can't follow you.
Will the Company put up five hundred dollars to get Jane McKenna's list of clients?
No. It's ridiculous. This has nothing to do with Tom Grunemann.
It probably has the Dumper's name. It might give us some kind of new lead. I want a look at it anyhow.
Klute, the Company's interest is Tom Grunemann. Solely and exclusively. You say you can't find Tom; all right, I'll see that you're paid off; the case is closed.
All right, but I'm going to see that list.
I can talk it over; possibly I can get the money. When are you meeting the man?
Tomorrow evening, nine. East River Drive and 73rd Street.
Suppose I meet you there a half hour before.
Just send me a money order.
No, I'd  like to be in on it.
Well 
Tomorrow. See you tomorrow night.
What is it?
Miss Daniel? My name is Klute  John Klute 
What about?
My name's John Klute.
You said that.
I'm an investigator. I'd like to ask you some questions about Tom Grunemann.
Who?
Tom Grunemann. He wrote you some letters.
Gee.
He was a research engineer at the Tuscarora Laboratories in Pennsylvania. He disappeared from there last April. I've been hired to look for him.
Why?
You know what I'm talking about. Miss Daniel.
Honest?
Will you let me ask you some questions?
Dew yew hayuv ahdentifikyshun?
You're not police or FBI; you're just a private investigator?
Mm.
And you just want to ask me a few questions?
Mm.
Is it the shakedown hon? You picked a loser, I just don't have it.
No, I'm look 
If I was taking calls full time would I be living in this kip? I'd be back on Park Avenue; I could support the whole National Guard!
Could I ask some questions?
Or you'll get me shoved back in the brig you mean; another month with the bulldykes.
Company outing or picnic or something like that.
Isn't that sweet. Well it could be any one of them bubi; I get to see them all.
A name. Grunemann. Nothing. And they showed me pictures like this and they meant nothing. Then they asked me, well had I been getting letters, from someone out there in Cabbageville 
 Tuscarora 
All right, yes, I had been. Those sick, wild letters  I'm watching you, gonna follow you, gonna punish you, kill you et cetera. Well, they said, all right that's Grunemann. So try to remember when you and he  when  well I don't know, there was that dumper once, he sounded like that dumper  Dumpers; they get their kicks beating you up. A man hired me once, then tried to really kill me  that'd be about two years ago.
You remind me of my uncle.
What? What do you remember about that  dumper?
Nothing. Except he wasn't kidding. Usually it's a fakeout, you probably know. They pretend to tie you up, and you wear a dress with a cloth belt and they pretend to whip you or you  Hell it's their money. I'll hang from the shower rod and whistle Maytime. Except this guy was really tripped out on it; he 
But you can't say that Dumper was Tom Grunemann.
I can't say he was anybody!
Well could I have them back now hon?  those tape recordings you've got downstairs  OK?  and if you want you can have a good time and I'll have a good time and
What about everything since?
Everything that's happened since Tom Grunemann disappeared. The phone calls and the 
Just phone calls, right? They ring, you answer, they don't say anything, just blank. Kids getting kicks. Burglars looking for an empty apartment. I mean there is nothing that proves 
What about the other things you've reported?   being followed on the 
Look  I'm sorry  I've led everybody wrong. I mean yes, I get those feelings, but that's just me, that's just feelings. I'm sure this will amuse you; I'm scared of the dark. And sometimes I get shook up, I hear people or  well, I'll come out in the morning and think someone's been prying at my mailbox, or there's a little  trash outside my door and I wonder if someone left it there for  do you see?  things other people wouldn't even notice. Well that's not real, it's just nerves; it's got nothing to do with 
Is that how you get most of your dates? Someone gives your name to someone else?
Most of them.
Is that how you met the Dumper?  Someone else gave 
How would I remember?
How else do you meet them? Pimps?
You're very square. Pimps don't get you dates, cookie; they just take the money.
I have some names the police gave me. Frank Ligourin. Will you tell me what 
Look, I'm sure this'll amuse you too. Ilia trying to get away from all that.
What about the old gentleman the other night, Mr. Faber?
Klute, tell me, what's your bag? Are you a talker, or a button man or a doubler, or maybe you like them very young  children  or get your chest walked around with highheeled shoes, or have us watch you tinkle? Or 
 OK 
 You want to wear women's clothes, or you get off ripping things 
 you perverted hypocrite square bastards.
OK.
Gee I hope this doesn't make my cold any worse.
Tell me about Frank Ligourin.
Mm? Oh, he was my old man. We broke up.
What? This?
 OK?
I thought you could trick me for those tapes. Don't you get lonely in that little green room? Or let me get you someone; I have terrific friends, wild.
No thanks.
You've changed your mind? You do want to play?
I don't want you to look up. There's someone on the skylight.
Tell me about acting  what are you doing tomorrow  where do you go?
I go on rounds.
Rounds, what are they?  don't watch me, keep talking.
You go see agents  or Equity calls, open casting calls. And ad agencies  commercials  you don't get work, you just go around.
Well do you think it was him?
What do you think?
Can't you get him?
Maybe, if you tell me the things you haven't.
You asked me where I got that date with the dumper  Frank sent me on it.
Do you know where he got the dumper?
He never told me.
Well, let's go down and ask him.
What did you expect? Frankie still has a good string, three girls. Figure three hundred a week from each.
Is that what you gave him?
Did you like my friend Frankie?
No.
Didn't he tell you what you wanted?
It didn't go anywhere. But that's not why 
About the dumper, didn't he tell you that?
It was Jane McKenna who sent you the dumper.
Well  she's dead.
I thought you were going back to the apartment.
You said you wanted these.
Oh golly, oh just what I've always dreamed of, dirty phone calls. How come?
You told me what you could. I guess I'm through with your part of it.
Is there anything more I could 
I don't see anything, do you?
What're you gonna do next?
Try some other ways.
What do I do meanwhile?  wait for that clown to fall through the skylight on me?
And I don't think that was Tom.
You said it was!
No, I said what did you think.
Oh  wait  oh I get it. You said that just to keep me scared. So I'd tell you everything I  oh clever; oh you smart, tricky hick.
Well 
Hey, but did we get to you, Klute? A little?
Yeah, you got to me.
 Us city folks? The sin, the glitter, the wickedness?
Oh. No. Not that way. I'd say it was more  I don't know   too bad? Pathetic?
Goodbye.
It's kind of late.
It got lonely upstairs. There's someone on the roof.
Oh, don't be a doodoo.
Not much point to this, is there?
Ezra, I'm lots better than you're used to. Tell me  the other night, watching me with Mr. Faber  wasn't your tongue a little bit hanging out?
Mm.
So you're not too different from him, or the chap on the roof, or Tommybaby 
Bree  thanks  I don't want to.
Oh don't be all hypocrite. Or do you really like other kicks? Is it more just having power over someone?  so you don't really need to 
What's the matter hon? You were great. Terrific. A tiger.
Thanks.
Well what're you down about? You mean because you didn't get me there? You can't expect that. I mean Frank, yes, he'd get me there all the time  but never with a John.
You asked if there was anything more you could help me with.
When?
I've checked the records of Jane McKenna's death  I can't get anything special. But Frank Ligourin had another girl you said, besides McKenna and you.
Arlyn Page.
Did she and Jane McKenna know each other?
Frankie kept them in the same apartment: it cut his traveltime.
Then maybe Arlyn Page knew the Dumper too.
Arlyn had a very big habit  heroin  she's the one who started Frank. She's strung out now; you won't find her.
You could help me find her. You know the people. I'll pay you a hundred dollars.
I can make that in a lunch break! Look, Hiram, you're sure it isn't just me?  you decided you liked it, after all, the other night; you'll hang around for seconds?
Don't worry.
What's the matter?
What the hell do you think's the matter. I could wait for you someplace.
If Arlyn Page is living with Tom Grunemann 
 Then you don't need me.
But if it's someone else I do.
I thought you ought to know, Arlyn Page is dead.
How?
The same as Jane McKenna.
Thanks for the jolly news. I thought maybe you'd left town by now. You kind of just disappeared. But you boys from Tuscarora have a habit of disappearing, don't you?
The next few weeks I would like to know where you are all the time.
Why?
Just let me know when you are going out and where 
What if i go out on tricks  you wanna come along? You could sit and read the National Geographic.
How can you do it to yourself?
I don't get you.
Ligourin: How could you do it?
I told you before, you wouldn't understand.
You're right, I don't understand. Explain it to me. You were scared. Arlyn Page, that scared you. Well it should; that's death. So what did you do, you ran straight for it, death. Ligourin kills women.
No.
No, no you're right, I'm sorry. He uses women; he lets them kill themselves. Is that how you want it?
Arlyn was a junkie; I'm not on junk!
No, you can find some other way. Explain it to me. Bree, show me any sense to 
You get the Christ out! You dumb stupid bastard, you don't know anything, you square, you get out! I don't have to show you anything; you get out!
Please.
We did this before.
No. Well all right. But you want to and I want you to and we both know it and all right.
I don't like getting splashed.
I'm still scared. I mean different but still. Look, I made it very clear from the start, you're a yokel, you don't excite me, you don't even interest me, and so I only have one question which is what the hell are you doing in my bed?
My bed.
I am scared. The things I do. The things I could do to you.
Mm.
No, not just 'mm'. You don't know what I 
Oh boy, say, you think you're pretty good.
Yup.
I saw Mr. Faber. You remember Mr. Faber, don't you?
Yeah.
Is that all you have to say?
What am I supposed to say?
Well, I told him I wouldn't  uh  go there any more. I know it's tough to understand, but it wasn't easy. You see, he was nice to me. I mean, it wasn't just him. I got something out of it too I guess. Anyway, I told him I wouldn't go there anymore.
Spangler says we have a relationship.
What?
You and I  a relationship.
I was wondering what that was.
Hell there's nothing so mysterious about the square life.
Oh Jesus. Oh Jesus.
Don't touch anything.
Oh look what he did in them.
Drop it.
Listen to me: It's all right. I've been expecting something.
My God, I thought it was over. And here I am, daddy, right back at the start.
Bree 
Right back at the start, right?
Go down in my room.
You said it was over, right? You said not to worry any more, all over, right?
Ah, Schmendrick  what's the scam?
Those were police laboratory people, they've been over the apartment.
Oh zippidydoo, they'll find my fingerprints. Can I go in? I need some stuff.
Where'd you spend last night?
With Trina.
I called Trina.
Maybe I wasn't there when you called.
Bree, what's actually happened? It wasn't that bad.
How do you know how bad it was?
Why couldn't you stay here with me?
Because I didn't want to be touched! I didn't think you'd get that!
Hey  look officer  I can explain everything. It was just  you know, everything all of a 
Trask wants to talk with you.
Please. I said I don't want you to do this.
Trask said I should move. Let's not make a thing of it.
I got a call from Ross this morning. Cable owned a plot of woodland  he'd go there on weekends. They found Tom Grunemann's body buried there. They've notified his wife.
Oh. Well it wasn't us city people that did it  your fine rosycheeked country boy.
Mm.
You're going back?
Mm.
Well suppose I hadn't come downstairs. Would you just have folded up and sneaked away?
No. I was going to come up. I wanted to ask you to marry me.
You wanted to, or you are?
I am.
You could at least look at me!
Look  yes. I mean thanks, but  don't you think we better be realistic?
About what?
Look at me. I'm pretty and sort of clever and very well intentioned, and dear God I'd tear your heart out!
I don't think so.
How can you not think so? You know the things I can do.
They don't scare me any more.
What?
Doesn't scare me. I think we could handle it.
Look, why should it be yes or no? Can't we keep it going and see? I mean we can keep in touch and visit each other and see. People do that, that's realistic.
OK.
You don't believe that either, do you? Why can't you see my side?
Can you use these?
Can I carry something for you, to the car? Will you kiss me?
No. I'm sore.
Can't we talk together reasonably, just  ordinarily? I know you're expecting some kind of  extravagant behavior, but believe me  do you believe me? 
Yes  all right 
 We can talk 
 Yes.
All right, then, an ordinary matter. I'm a quite well off man, I have a  position to respect. I would feel personally uncomfortable to be connected with a  certain kind of woman, I'm sure you understand. Do you? Well I'd like to buy Jane McKenna's book.
You have no idea what I'm talking about.
Yes  Jane McKenna's book  I could make a phone call.
No, you're frightened, you're pretending. Well  Klute knows about me then. Does everybody know, can you tell me?
Yes.
Then it doesn't matter what I do any more, does it?
I'm not going to hurt you, absolutely, I'm not.
Will you let me go then?
It puzzles me so badly. I've done terrible things but I can't consider myself a terrible man. I've killed three people and I'd still want to say it was accident, do you see?
If you'll let me go I could tell them what 
Tom Grunemann discovered me  we were here on business together, he discovered me with Jane McKenna. Then I suppose it was the  the contempt I saw in his face and the certainty that sooner or later he'd use it against me. Within the Company. I endured that as long as I could, do you see?
I'm sorry, I'm just frightened. Yes.
Excuse me Miss Daniel?
I said yes, I see.
Oh no, I don't think 
Tell me. I'll listen. I just want you to tell me.
Miss Daniel, be sensible, you find another place till we get things cleaned up.
Oh well that shouldn't take you more than another, oh, two and a half or three years, should it?
A few more days. We know who did this.
So do I.
No, not Grunemann. He's dead. The man that killed him  also prob'ly Jane McKenna, also Arlyn Page.
Arlyn and Jane commited suicide. He said they commited suicide.
Now there's a picture I'd like you to 
You said someone killed them, you said you know who, you said that.
Well we're pretty 
Why isn't he locked up?
We don't want to just lock him up; we want a conviction, we wanted him to do something more.
Is that why Klute didn't tell me?
I guess he figured it was better.
What was better? I made better bait?
No, that's not 
Is that what he set me up for? Everything he's told me from the beginning?  don't worry, don't 
From the beginning I don't know why the hell he's messin with you. If he was me he'd know better. If he was even a city boy he'd know better. You're a whore Miss Daniel, that's the truth of it, right? Now somethin I'd like you to look at.
I don't have to look at anything. I don't have 
Here please.
Oh no.
Like for you to look for the man.
Grunemann? I've looked at him a 
 I have to close up now. Leave your name and number with his message service, Mrs. Daniel, and why don't you just go home and wait until he 
No.
Well I have to close up now.
Look  could I use your phone?
Yes indeed.
Look. I almost killed my  I almost killed someone.
Well I'm certain Doctor Spangler will want to talk with you; excuse me.
I know: it's ridiculous. But it's tearing me up and I don't know why. And look, all right, I came here didn't I? And if I have to, I'll keep coming here, the works, and talk about my mummy and my daddy and I'll even pay for it, but will you kindly for God's sakes say something?
I'd just be guessing.
Guess!
Maybe this wasn't just a trick. Maybe you're in danger of real love, real involve 
I do not love him.
You've spent your life avoiding this. You'll try hard to deny it; you're quite likely to destroy it.
All right. Loneliness. Well  separated. From other people. Forgotten. Well, as if I can be here, I can go through the motions, right? But the truth is, I don't belong.
Don't belong?
Do you always have to repeat?
Sorry.
Well it's more than loneliness. Hate. People hating me  and watching me and following and waiting to hurt me  you know? I'm all screwed up.
You think people hate you.
The truth is I hate them: they must hate me. All right, the money. All right, not the money. A kind of puton. It gets things back together. Well let's say I'd go to one of these cattlecalls, a tryout. I mean before  before I got this job  and they'd always say thank you very much and i'd feel, you know, brought down. They didn't want me.
Didn't want you.
I said that. Well, so you have a choice. You can either feel lonely  you know, the hate  or  So you take a call and go to a hotel room and there's some John you've never seen before, but he wants you. He must, he's paying for it. And usually they're nervous and that's all right, too, because you're not; you know this thing. And then for a while, boy, they really pay attention, you're all there is. And it's not real and you don't have to even like them  you can even hate them, it's all right, it safe  you know?
Enjoy. Well 
It's good to see you. Well  could we do it first and then just talk?
Sure dear, yes.
Well  well I'm just back. And  I must tell you  something quite wonderful.
Yes?
And Cannes was quite fun, quite; and we played baccarat and chemindefer and there was a nice little Italian marquis quite enthusiastic for me  but a young man can be so silly 
Mm.
And then one night  at the gaming tables  well I just saw him. A stranger  looking at me  and I knew suddenly that all my life I'd been 
 May I? It's so 
Please 
Not young; he wasn't young  gray at the temples, he  well actually he looked like you.
Yes?
And nobody could tell me who he was  an exiled prince or a mercenary or a bullfighter or  but I felt it stirring inside me, this  this wild, pagan feeling 
Trina this is Klute. I told you about him.
Oh yes Mr. Klute  won't you both join me? And how do you like our fair city? There's so much here don't you think? The museums and the books and the foreign films  Bree, have you seen the Godard film?
Uh uh.
Oh you've got to. He does such fun things with imagery. And I've been reading The Fall   The Fall by Ahlbair Camoo  it's the same thing, you know the imagery 
Trina honey, he just wants to find Arlyn Page.
Why? She's a junkie.
She was with you after she left Frank.
Well she's not now. I did everything for Arlyn. I loved Arlyn I took her right into my apartment, my own sweet apartment on First. But she wouldn't stay off it  the junk  and I wept and I pleaded and I held her in my arms  and she started taking things, my things, and selling them for horse. My clothes. We could've had everything together, everything  and then the bitch sold my mink!
Bree  honey  please, we're waiting for someone.
Arlyn, he just wanted to ask some questions  something you could help us about.
Can't you see I'm strung out? Please, we're waiting for it  he's got to have it!
Honey, a couple of years ago, with Jane and Frankie?  Jane sent me a Dumper 
Please, if he sees you, he won't come!
Arlyn, just tell me, did Jane have a dumper, one of her regular Johns?
What about him? Yes.
Did he come around often?
Are you gonna start it up?
Yeah.
Why?
Coz of something I lost.
What's that?
Compassion.
What's compassion, mister.
Did you see her?
Yeah, I saw her ... she was carried into the jungle by ... an animal.
What was it, Jack?
An ape ... some kind of ape.
Listen buddy! Cut the crap! We're looking for Ann, not making a Goddamn movie!
Jack ... You get to save the girl and I get my third act! It's gonna be good for you and good for me!
You better not slow us down, Denham!
Holy shit! Look at the size of that!
That's your monkey, Denham.
Kong ...
Hey! I thought these things were supposed to be extinct!
) They are now.
They were just tasting the berries.
Yeah? ... Well, I gave 'em a taste of American lead ... and I don't see 'em coming back for seconds!
Set up the camera boys! Get a shot of me comin' ashore!
Forget it, Denham ... for Godssake
I'm calling a wrap. We're heading back to the ship.
What?
The girl's dead, Driscoll. There's no point continuing on.
Denham! Go back to the wall ... Tell'em to give me twelve hours to get back with Ann!
I can't get back to the wall! I'll get eaten!
Not me. Thought I'd head out west ... get into some Redwood country.
How about Ann? Is she going with you?
Haven't seen her  not since we got back.
She's got a bit of an attitude, that girl. She's turned down a bunch of money. Too bad ... it would've been a great angle  "Beauty and the Beast". I must be getting old  I thought you two had something going there.
Are you nervous Jack?
Nab Let's get it over with.
Did you fear for your life?
Yeah.
It must have been terrifying?
Yeah.
Pleased to meet you ... Hi, bow's it going? Pleased to meet you! Hi, Carl Denham ... How's it going?
We offer ourselves at your service, Mr Denham!
And I appreciate that so much, I really do  a sentiment that will be shared by audiences across America when they view my latest documentary sensation "Indonesia ...Hell Hole of the World". Ernie Hemmingway's agreed to write the narration. We're going out through Universal ... Laemmale's promised me fifteen hundred screens.
You are most kind. We will be proud to assist you!
Exotic lands, primitive people, dangerous animals ... That's what the public expect from a Carl Denham picture! Lead us into the mountains, Sir!
The mountains?
Tell me Mr Ginting  are there any parts of your country where people still wear ... native costume?
Native costume?
Y'know ... traditional ceremonies where the woman ... divest themselves of their undergarments.
We are a very modest and deeply religious people, Mr Denham.
That's too bad.
Man Eater!!!
A man eater! Fantastic! Making history, Herb
Look, I've sailed these waters for twentyseven years ... there's no island like that around here.
What a climax to the film  The first white men to set foot on ... "Skull Island" Twentieth Century man comes face to face with a ... a ... naked stone age tribe!
I tell you it doesn't exist!
We need those coordinates someone's gotta get back there and jot the rest of it down
There's no island there. We're wasting our time!
I'm chartering this vessel,Engelhorn  how many days?
Two... maybe three.
I guess that answers your questions. There's no island on these co ordinates  not even a lousy fogbank.
Well, that was a monumental waste of time! I pay good money, only to be taken on some wild goose chase! I made the mistake of trusting my idiot translator!
They're stoking the boilers. As soon as we've got some steam, we're outta here.
We should never have come! I pay you good money, only to have my life endangered. You'll be hearing from my lawyer!
Just take it easy . Where are the others?
They' re dead.
Oh my God ... Ann?
He's grubbing for money, father.
I just wanna deal with the boss, ok?
No, it's not ok! We're not about to be robbed blind by some twobit hustler on the make!
You  calling me a thief? Well, that's great, coming from a glorified grave robber! You break into the tomb of some dead Egyptian  the poor guy's happily enjoying the afterlife when suddenly his shit gets stolen by a bunch of light fingered limeys!
Tell me, Mr Driscoll  is it a requirement of the forestry business that you have to be as thick as the trees you cut down?
Holy God! The mummy walks!
How dare you? My father is the British Museum's most respected archeologist!
Do they have him on display at the weekends?
God, you're so obnoxious! Our work happens to be of great anthropological value!
Value? ... Value?
I'm sorry ...
No!
Where do I charter a boat?
There's nothing fast enough to catch that. Forget it. It's over.
I not doing this for me, Jack! It's for my father. This is possibly the greatest anthropological discovery of the last two hundred years! It belongs to him! I'm going to that island ... nothing's going to stop me!
Can you fly?
Are you kidding?! That heap of junk will never leave the ground!
Yeah! Life's looking pretty damn good at the moment.
I don't know what happened to you, Jack ... but I can't believe you were always this much of a bastard.
When this boat finally reaches Jakata, I'll be first off. You'll never see me again ... and believe me  that day cannot come soon enough. I've got no problem with you ignoring me for the rest of the voyage.
I want to thank you.
It's ok.I know what you were feeling.
I can't imagine you crying.
Relax ... it was fifteen years ago. I don't do it now.
There's a light up ahead.
Sun's coming up ... We've been in the fog for six hours.
It's the same image  Kong!
Leave it, Ann.
Jack!
We're leaving.
But . . . we can' t Jack, I need time to collect artifacts ... make sketches ... gather evidential information.
Ann ... you're father is dead. You have nothing to prove anymore.
Oh Jesus ... you took it.
Jack! This is the archeological find of the century!
This shit is bad luck! Don't you understand? You treat it like a game  two men have already died!
Give it back!
I'm not sailing with this thing on board!
No! Don't!
Barricade the gates! Quick!
Jack!... Jack!
Jesus Christ ! How could you do this to him? How could you do this?
Come on, come on! We gotta keep moving!
He's gonna die! They'll kill him!
Take to look out there .. Have you seen what he's done? You're talking about a crazy animal!
You're the animals  all of you!
Ann ... Ann!
It' s alright Jack ... it' s alright.
What have you got there?
A Neolithic bronze ... Reminiscent of the Nias Island cultures ... It ' s very curious. Defiantly Pagan. The use of ivory for the spear is quite unique ... What do you think?
I think you're trying to run before you can walk, Ann.
Now look at this fine example of early Hindu art ... I don't recall any sketches of this passing across my desk ...
I photographed it extensively, father.
Photography teaches you nothing, Ann! Click! One second and you've seen all you're going to see. I want you sitting here with your paper and pencils ... I want to see every chisel mark reproduced with painstaking accuracy. Understand the carving and you will understand the people! That Ann, is the key to archaeology.
Father!
These are priceless artifacts! They're ruining the site!
Out! Out! All of you! We have been issued with an exclusive permit 
Father ... Father!
Father It's somewhere southwest of here  we need to inform the museum ... organize an expedition 
All in due course, Ann. Our first responsibility is to get these artifacts safely back to London.
Oh God, it's that bloody yank!
Now now, Ann! Try be to polite.
Hi  Carl Denham. I'm A big admirer of your work, sir. I've loved all your discoveries. I really want to work closely with you on this incredible find. It'll be good for you and good for me.
Look Mr Denham  you're not welcome here. Just pack up your cameras and go.
I'm coming onboard! Throw down a ladder!
You're outta your depth here, Miss Darrow!
There's no hard feelings, Mr Denham! I just want to come to the island with you!
Does this look like the "Queen Mary"?? We don't take passengers! Full steam ahead, Captain Engelhorn!
Can I see the map? My father spoke of references to a Beast God ...
Kong is a myth, nothing but a native superstition, Miss Darrow. All we're going to find on that island are some primitive people in grass skirts. Now, if you'll excuse me, I'm trying to reduce my handicap.
I hope it fits ... Mrs Denham's a big lady.
It's ... lovely.
Miss Darrow ... I've been thinking. I would very much like to dedicate this motion picture to the memory of your father. It's a great shame he wasn't able to join us on this adventure. Truly a wonderful man.
I thought that with your assistance we could have the premiere at the Albert Hall. We'll take out a full page ad in Variety  "The Lord Darrow Benefit screening". We'll invite the King of England  hell, we'll get the whole Royal Family along! It'd be good for them and good for us!
To be quite honest, Mr Denham ... I find the whole idea to be quite reprehensible.
Am actually laying my hand on the twentyfive foot gorilla.Ladies and gentlemen! I am touching the beast!
Take your filthy paws off him you ignorant pig!
Get the hell out of here.''!
Now Ann ...
Ludwig.
Oskar.
He can't sit still. Just when we arrive at a nightclub he wants to go to another one.
You look tired.
Gabriela Rossman was here looking for you. Do you know her?
Women are all you have on your mind!
She went to the roof to sunbathe one lunch hour  we watched her changing.
They keep switching us from department to department. He doesn't mind because he can't sit still.
We used to be in the supply section, carrying boxes of medicine about but we dropped too many of them.
It's not too bad working here.
It's not our fault. We're naturally nervous.
And we're upset too.
We've been together too long. His personality is overflowing into mine and vice versa.
 How would <u>you</u> like to be in a horrible situation like that?
But your goal is so hard to reach. Do you think the official network would surrender to one man? We would never think of attempting anything remotely as difficult.
My mother used to tell us of the young man who decided to ride to the next village and how she was afraid that  not even mentioning accidents  the span of a normal happy life might fall far short of the time needed for such a trip.
Oskar!
Ludwig?
This is filed incorrectly!
Here too! They're all in a dreadful muddle!
We could go back to the office. Explain ourselves to the Chief Clerk.
They'd drive us away. That Kafka's made things very hot for us.
I understand he was wounded in the lung.
It doesn't matter. It's too late for all of us.
What's to become of us now?
Then that's the place for us!
Amerika for us!
Amerika!
"Raban"  that'll be nearly at the back of the alphabet.
It usually is.
I'm not obliged to give you access, you know  not without authorization  but I'll make an exception this one time.
I'm overworked as it is. "Raban" did you say?
Yes. Isn't it there?
Wait a minute. "Raban?" Where have I heard that name?
He's the clerk who died last week. From the insurance department
What's the matter?
Why would we keep files on <u>dead</u> employees? All old files are sent up to the Castle. Do you think we have room for two hundred years worth personnel records?
It's gone out so quickly?
Whenever an employee departs, shall we say, it's up to the head of his department to requisition his file, reassign any outstanding claims, and send it off.
 You mean my Chief has it.
If it was Accounts you wanted why did you ask for Employees?
Orlac is an account?
It's a factory in the northern mountains. One of our best customers. Without a proper request I'm not obliged to do this, you understand  but I'll make an exception on this one occasion.
All these in the last year?
You must have read about it in the papers  there was a terrible cavein. It wouldn't have been so bad, but even the Medical Officer for the district was killed!
I did read that. They gave him a posthumous medal.
Dr. Murnau was the bravest of men. He spent an entire career in those backwaters with no regard for personal gain. A great loss.
This is the crossreference of clerks who've worked on Orlac claims?
Is your friend's name among them? Then he only worked on the one case. Your Chief will send me the final summation when he's finished with it.
Once a file's been sent to the Caste, is it possible to recall it for review?
Of course not. Only by a Director of the firm. Who'd want to let in all kinds of riffraff off the streets?
What good are records if they're not open for public inspection?
These laws have been with us for centuries  how can you doubt them?
What if I petitioned one of the Directors?
You do not summon them  they summon you  and this, of course, hardly ever happens, if at all. The Directors are an eccentric lot and by nature cautious.
Where do our records go to in the Castle?
We're a medical firm, aren't we? They go to the Medical Records Section.
I could always apply there.
It so happens, my dear simple sir, that the Head of Medical Records at the Castle <u>is</u> one of the Directors of this firm.
... A piece of paper ...
A mere slip. Your friend Mr. Raban dealt only with claims that came <u>in</u>, another department being responsible for compensation that goes out  this is correct?
Through a very unfortunate  and I might add extremely rare  mishap, a document intended for the one department was sent to the other. And for the first time  though your friend wasn't aware of it  two and two could have been put together to make one.
... A piece of paper ...
You see, Kafka, in all cases relating to the factory at Orlac  which is what this paper referred to  the authority that puts in a request and the authority that grants it is, to all intents and purposes, the same authority.
 You seem amused.
It only amuses me in that it gives me an insight into the ludicrous bungling that in some circumstances may decide the life of a human being.
 If an obscure official up there in the distant mountains so far away from civilizing influences happens to meet with an unfortunate accident  and should he tragically die in spite of the District Medical Officer's strenuous efforts to save him  the firm wants to see the next of kin pacified and the disposition of the remains handled with the greatest possible ... efficiency.
"Accident and Compensation"  no one can accuse the firm of not supplying exactly what it promises.
I believe we've exceeded his expectations.
I had the grandest of financial plots in mind, the most malevolent of personal motives, conspiracy theories extending to every ... authority I could see. And I find you. A body snatcher.
And I suppose Dr. Murnau didn't die in a cavein. You killed him to free the Position of Orlac Medical Officer for your own ends.
Yes, well  we're looking for a new village now. If we stay too long at one source ... people become suspicious.
May I ask where your two warders are?
Lying in the gutter where they belong.
The fact that it's live bodies you practice your trade on doesn't seem to matter to you.
On the contrary, it matters a great deal. We're engaged in immensely important research here. I'm a revolutionary too, you know  but a much more pragmatic one.
 And the new patients they bring me aren't usually as dexterous as you've been in evading us. Not perfect specimens by any means, but not the type of person who'll be missed either.
What have you done with Gabriela Rossmann?
As a matter of fact you've caught us in a state of considerable excitement. Our latest preparation we believe  we pray  is perfected. It should take years off her.
... Why take me into your confidence?
That's obvious, isn't it? We have an opening for a new member.
That's <u>mad</u>.
 Oh, yes, it's mad.
 You said so yourself the firm is large and powerful. If the discrepancy really was something big, Eduard's responsibility would still have to be small. No poor young <u>clerk</u> could find himself in such a fix.
When a scapegoat is needed, my friend ...
Why are you so aggressively unimaginative? Eduard is no longer the only casualty.
Then why haven't I been 
 Gabriela, on the other hand, had made an enemy of this man Burgel.
Oh, Burgel! Gabriela was having an affair with Eduard. They were both members of <u>this group</u>. If any crime's been discovered and people are paying for it, I'd look to <u>yourselves</u>!
The loyal civil servant. I suppose you'll deny that shortchanging the workers to whom compensation is due is standard company policy.
Do you?
We saw her naked once  didn't we.
I didn't realize you'd been here that long.
You mean because it's been a while since there was a sunny day? What a good detective you are.
 I was just trying to finish some work!
You mean you've actually begun some?
What's the matter with you?
I can't make a simple statement without him taking issue with it
 You should meet my father.
For all your incompetence I was beginning to think you were at least loyal to me. You're very good ham actors.
 Just doing our job.
It's a farce.
Still, we're probably closer to you at the moment than any of your fellow human beings.
Close only by virtue of antithesis.
My assistants. I should have known. Nothing is given to me. I have to acquire everything.
It's all right to be sarcastic in private to us  because we have a sense of humor  but when we're up at the Castle we suggest you don't make a fuss. It would spoil the not unfavorable impression you make in other respects.
Kafka  is that your real name?
Yes. Yes, of course  why wouldn't it be?
When was the last time you saw Mr. Raban?
Wednesday. We left the office together.
Did you go anywhere afterwards  to have a drink perhaps?
No, we said goodbye outside the building. He went off, as usual, toward his house.
Your office is the Workmen's 
 Accident and Compensation Association.
Where you've been employed for seven years.
Eight  and seven months.
Engaged in the manufacture and distribution of ... pills and so forth.
Well  other departments are, yes.
Would you describe your relationship with the dead man as close?
Yes. Since he came to the office, almost three years ago, we've been quite good friends. How was Eduard ...
He was found in the River. Could he swim?
I don't know.
Was he depressed?
No. He didn't seem to be. Do you think he drowned himself?
Grown men don't normally fall into the river, do they?
No, I suppose not.
He might have had a drink or two, despite what you think.
Can I ask  how you found me?
His landlady knew of no other friends to refer us to.
I don't think he really had any. He had no family either.
We know that.
He wasn't a lonely man, though.
What makes you think so?
... Just a perception.
Probably not.
Anyway, I'd like you to reflect that in me you have  I won't say a friend, because we're complete fencers, of course  from distinctly incompatible social classes  but to some extent, shall we say, an interested third party.
I'll bear that in mind.
 Should you happen upon anything that might be relevant.
But that's just my point  she was more than upset, she was livid. She slammed every door on her way downstairs  except that one. I was just behind her and I didn't even hear that one <u>shut</u>  not at all.
That's not what I call conclusive evidence of an abduction.
If someone was waiting here in the hallway to spirit her away, wouldn't they have shut the door as quietly as possible?
You told me to contact you if anything relevant came up  Gabriela is relevant. When I spoke to you before I didn't know she'd been seeing Eduard.
That's been noted. But where does it lead us? Unless you have something more to add.
She's missing. I went to her house and she hadn't returned there.
Maybe it's true then what she said.
What did she say?
That the police may have allegiance to something other than truth.
I'm Kafka  I work upstairs in Accident 
I know.
You're a friend of Eduard Raban's.
Why would you suppose so?
Oh  well, I thought he once mentioned 
One of you must be mistaken.
I'm sorry, but I just wondered 
Excuse me, I have to copy this for Central Docketing by 2:30.
Hello again.
I've never seen you here before.
Have you looked?
Well  nice to know life exists outside the office.
Yes.
I was having an affair with Eduard. He didn't tell you?
No.
He would have. You were his best friend. A better friend than me.
I suspected that he  well.
What?
That he was  satisfied in that regard. I didn't want to pry.
It's not that we wanted to deceive anyone  but you know how these things are looked upon at the office.
What's funny?
This morning it was suggested to me that my own sense of office fellowship could bear improving.
As long as it's on their terms. If your work and your private life don't correspond to their specifications you're labelled a dangerous agitator  with no recourse whatsoever.
How long were you and Eduard 
Two or three months, that's all.  I seduced him.
No, I don't. I'm amazed that anyone is able to bear life with any assurance at all.
Eduard didn't see it as something that needed bearing.
The police would know the difference, wouldn't they?
Do you think people in the New Town care what happens over here? This will always be the ghetto.
He wasn't robbed. He was identified by his wallet.
And you believe everything the authorities tell you.
When I have no reason to doubt.
The very fact that they're authorities should give you reason. People will do anything to protect their own interests. For all you know he was killed at the <u>hands</u> of the police.
 What could he have done to warrant that?
Are you free tonight?
Tonight?
There are some people I'd like you to meet. Can you come to the Musil district at eight o'clock?
... All right.
You almost married recently, didn't you?
Last year. I  it was broken off.
Eduard wanted to marry me.
And you ...?
I'm suspicious of men who want to marry. I believe they think it's the only thing that will make them equal to their fathers.
 I don't know the Musil district.
You won't have any trouble finding it.
Ah  we're back to the "authorities" you spoke of.
They're ubiquitous. What we try to do ... is make them a little less so.
I nominated you as a possible candidate. You were Eduard's good friend. He read me some of your work.
I've hardly published enough for anyone to draw conclusions from.
You strike me as a man with a defined notion of injustice  a high concern for the lot of your fellow men. And yet you're able to remain an outsider. With the concomitant air of ... superiority?
The day he died, Eduard was called up to the Castle. Did you know that?
What of it?
He was summoned to help correct a minor discrepancy of some sort in the Medical Records Division. Apparently one of his claims was relevant.
And you still maintain  what? That he was murdered.
He was murdered.
You're shocked at the thought of Eduard tossing a bomb through a window.
I have no right to be, I know. My experience with real life is practically nil.
When you only see someone sitting at a desk all day, it's liable to create a false impression.
People must think the same of me  a quiet, dependable person.
You think what we're doing is so wrong? And what are you doing? Pursuing goodness? For what? To answer to some supreme tribunal?
My only concern is the human tribunal. Isn't it yours?
Yes  which is why "quiet, dependable people" have to take charge of their own lives.
At the cost of others? You accuse people of murder without trial  apparently without irony. Did you go to the Castle with Eduard? Then you have no idea what really might have happened that night at all  even before or after he got there.
I'm collecting Eduard's things. If there's anything you want, take it or I'll give it to charity.
Burgel gave me this  what does it mean?
Burgel!  I didn't leave it with him.
Why were you given notice?
They're not obliged to tell.
It couldn't be for that incident with Burgel the other day.
Of course it could  Burgel's been trying to get me thrown out as long as I can remember. <u>He</u> could've killed Eduard.
You don't believe that.
I wouldn't put it past him.
You might think  I thought so myself at first  that Burgel's too insignificant to be dangerous. But that's the very reason to beware! It's the small men to watch out for  the ones who substitute method for character.
Now you've fallen into his trap. When he goes to bed at night Burgel dreams of inspiring as much fear in others as they inspire in him.
It's still easier for you to understand suicide, isn't it.
That street down there  I always used to call it the approach road for suicides. It leads straight down to the bridge and the River.
Burgel hated Eduard. And me. I'm sure he knew about us  and I'm sure it drove him mad.
Burgel doesn't like anybody!
He used to like me  very much more than I liked him.
He's jealous, yes, but <u>that</u> jealous? He's too cautious.
Of course he is  the Castle precincts are not the safest part of the city after dark. People disappear up there regularly. If you want to lie in wait for someone, that's the place to do it.
Now you're saying Eduard was lured there?
How often does one of our clerks have business in the house of records?
I've heard of it happening.
And Burgel is the bringer of messages, isn't he?
Usually.
Or what if there really <u>was</u> an error?  I don't know what kind  any kind that needed correcting  and what if Burgel was responsible for it? One mistake  even a small one in a firm like ours  it could cost him a promotion.
First these nameless authorities were the root of all evil, now it's insignificant Burgel. If indeed there was a mistake  and a minor one at that  you're suggesting someone went to a lot of trouble over something so trivial as to not matter at all.
What seems important to these people is not determined by the amount of work it entails  you're far from understanding the authorities if you believe that.
Now Burgel's one of the authorities?
Gabriela!  you did get away.
I knew you walked this way to work. I wanted to find you before they did.
 I've just come from the Castle. It's over.
Over? It's only over when you can crawl to a clean little spot on earth where the sun sometimes shines and you can warm yourself a bit.
Gabriela ...?
Should I tell you why I joined our late lamented nihilists? Why I became a murderer? Because murder ... is bliss. It's easier than you might think to absorb and assimilate Evil  once you've adopted its procedure.
Only two steps back? Even the man they left to guard me retreated further than that.
I  I found your jailer.
This is the result of their elixir of youth. They were to come and check on it during the night. I contrived to miss the appointment.
They're dead now. We can get help.
I know how they reward failure. If they saw this I'd be rotting in the quarries by the afternoon  with all the others.
There's a new potion  he said it was perfected.
I know there is. And you're what I have to bargain with. For now you're the last one in their way.
I told you, they're <u>dead</u>. It's finished.
Why should I believe a man who never believed me? They're absolutely right, you know  guilt should never be doubted. It's easier that way.
I think you've just escaped for the moment. Just as I did. As Eduard did. As they let us do. But only for the moment.
No  not this time.
I know better than you what people will say when they have to. When they brought me in for questioning I informed on my friends the very first day.
 Listen to me 
I do. Always. You understand the world better than any of us, Kafka. And what it's becoming. I've always held you in the highest regard.
You wanted to see me, sir.
Sit down, Kafka.
You've been with the firm for nearly nine years. You've done your work diligently, there are no complaints on that score. But there's more to the job than the work  there are other people to consider  and frankly, Kafka, we eel your social situation could bear improving.
... My ... social situation?
You keep too much to yourself  you're a lone wolf. It makes me uneasy, and if it makes me uneasy I can't imagine the impression you make on lesser employees.
To do my work well, I have little time for 
You must make the time. Where do you go off to in the lunch hour?
I usually take lunch by the River.
It's not healthy, Kafka  not for you and not for your workmates. At the annual dinner this month you again failed to make an appearance.
I did not realize it was obligatory.
Have you never wondered  and I mention this only in passing  why other clerks have advanced to more responsible positions while you, who have been here longer, have not?
No, sir.
Attitude, Kafka. It doesn't matter how well you do your work  you still see it as something to be gotten on with rather than something to take an active interest in.
Well, I 
Oh, I know you got along with that poor fellow  what was his name?
 Eduard 
 Yes  Raban  but he was too much like you  even more so perhaps. He wasn't here as long as you, so I didn't know him as well  but I could see the influence he was having. I simply want you to be aware of this because you'll be happier for it.
I understand you fancy yourself an author.
In a small way.
You might find a more athletic hobby  put some color in your cheeks.
Excuse me, sir  I understand you have Eduard Raban's file.
I do.
I wonder if I might look to see if there's an address for family  I thought I'd like to write to them.
Was there something else?
No  I just  I feel a sense of obligation. He was my friend  if I can be of any help  closing his affairs.
No, there's only one report to complete. I'll be doing it myself and submitting it to the Castle today or tomorrow.
I see  it's just the Erlanger claim then.
The <u>Orlac</u> claim.
Sorry, yes  well  thank you, sir.
Good morning  Or should I say good afternoon?
Say what you like  no one pays the least attention.
Oh, don't they? I think you underestimate my station in this office and overrate your own.
Not today, Burgel. Send one of your memos, write up one of your communiques, but for God's sake don't bother me today.
It's my place to offer advice, not yours  and by advising the Chief Clerk of your unpunctuality it's certainly not my situation that's compromised, if that's what you're implying.
You're just doing your job.
It's what I'm paid to do.
You're detestable.
And you're late!
The keeper of the files is still waiting for your final summation of the Erlanger claim.
I gave it to him yesterday.
You didn't give it to <u>me</u>.
No, I left it in his office.
Did you see him?
I've never seen him. I don't believe there is a keeper of the files.
He's usually in the storage room sorting things out. He can't close the file on a case until he has the concluding report.
He has it, he just hasn't noticed it yet, all right?
Who's to say he ever will? He's a timid old man and quite careful not to tread on anyone's toes  In fact, I'm the only one he trusts and he wouldn't even look at a document if it didn't first come through me.
In an organization as efficient as ours, if a document once in a great while gets lost it might never be found at all.
Burgel, I thought it would be easier, as long as I was passing 
But <u>I'm</u> the messenger. An error like this damages my credibility.
Your credibility  yes, it's well known.
When I deliver a message the very act of delivering it, you might say, gives it an official stamp, and only in this way are both the sender and the receiver satisfied that it was delivered at all.
I'll commit that to memory.
Are you looking for Gabriela Rossmann?
Yes.
I've read your stories. They're fantastic.
I don't know what you could have read.
Just what you've published.
 In magazines nobody reads.
I read the one about the penal colony.
Did you?
The needles inscribing the judgement into the flesh of the man. Very good.
Gabriela was right  it's easier for me to understand suicide. I'm a practicing suicide.
 In what sense?
These strange stories you write  they come naturally, do they?
Naturally?  that's not the word I would have chosen.
Where do you get your ideas? Only joking  I'm just joking. Let's go to a brothel then, Kafka, come on.
I haven't got the energy. I mean, I have to conserve my energy.
Why do you work in that hideous insurance office?  dealing with people who fall off ladders. Now take me  I make my living as a stone mason. It's not my art  but it's the <u>tools</u> of my art. You could be  a journalist.
That would be even worse  it would be a compromise.
Success or nothing?
No  not even success. My writing is not for making a living  it's for living. Not for other people, it's for me.
You work in the cemetery.
A man must eat  And drink.
The <u>Castle</u> cemetery.
 I'm flattered, of course, to be considered a friend  even without knowing all the details.  To see such determination is reward enough for me.
The Kafka men are famous for it, you know. Delivering meat barefoot in the depths of winter, picking up sacks of flour with their teeth 
 Oh, yes, determination runs in the family.
There is <u>one</u> thing I'd like you to tell me.
I'm trying to find things out myself  that's the whole point.
What made you think <u>I'd</u> be able to get you into the Castle?
The cemetery is nearer the Castle than anywhere else  wasn't it part of the Castle originally?  I always assumed there'd be a gate or something. Isn't there?
In a manner of speaking.
I was restoring some stones here in the upper section one day  and I found this.
An empty tomb?
A cenotaph  a monument to someone whose remains ended up elsewhere. But look 
The Castle gates were blockaded in the time of the great plague  it's an escape route. Don't get stuck.
Not a chance. I'm the thinnest person I know.
 You appreciate my writing.
Yes.
Will you do me a favor then?
Another one?
If I don't see you later  go to my house and find my notebooks  and destroy them. All my manuscripts  just burn them. Please.
What an extraordinary request!
It's my last and final one.
Then its authority is in doubt.
A true friend would do it.
Not necessarily. A <u>wife</u> would.
Heralds of a new age  does that sound immodest?
You could say we represent the <u>un</u>official view of a wellordered society.
Preliminary investigations may already be underway.
You were his friend. One link is all they need.
 Merely in the interests of order.
The formality of a trial would be too costly for them. They're beginning to understand that it's the ensuing news of our actions that incites support.
 Ah, but what if it <u>wasn't</u>?
 Small.
Yours is a very powerful and important firm  it has a lot at stake.
Perhaps Eduard was closer than he knew to discovering it and so had to be silenced.
My assistants, I presume.
Yes  that's us.
You look like brothers.
Yes  we do.
Have you worked here long?
No, no, no  quite a long time, yes.
Fine  terrible.
What was the matter with it?
 I'm hoping to live in the Old Quarter.
Even the socalled New Town isn't so new. Only the people. People of the future living in buildings of the past. Has anyone seen Eduard?
You work in the insurance department?
You have been hearing the sordid side then.
Where do you live?
Up there.
It's only majestic from here. When you get closer you see it for what it really is.
What is it really?
A glorified office block. They keep all the old records there  the final resting place for facts and figures that have ceased to matter in the world of the living.
Well, as long as I admire it from afar it shouldn't worry me if it's hollow.
Well?
He's fucking nuts.
Great. Is that what you're going to say when I put you on the stand?
No. When you put me on the stand, I'll say your client is catatonic and exhibits classic symptoms of a schizophrenic, sociopathic personality. And he doesn't sleep.
Doesnit sleep?
Insomnia. Not unusual for someone in his situation. Not to mention he's a bedwetter.
He wets the bed?
I always throw that in. It makes the jury feel sorry for the defendant.
Oh?
One of the deputies is pretty cute. I think she likes me.
This is bad, Joe. The Prosecution is already putting together a team of psychiatric specialists. They'll argue exactly the opposite. They'll say he's just pretending to be catatonic and he's completely sane.
Great. Battling head doctors. We'll confuse the jury enough to create a reasonable doubt. Hung jury.
This is Jason Voorhees. They'll be looking for an excuse to send him to the chair. If we're going to argue insanity, we're going to need something a little more concrete.
Nurses. That's why I went into medicine.
This sexual obsession of yours. Have you considered going into therapy yourself?
No need. I'm selfdiagnosed. I have severe nympholepsy... And I'm a bedwetter.
Well, I definitely feel sorry for you. August fourteenth, 1956... Jason was brought in by his mother, who said the boy hadn't slept for two weeks. Doctor prescribed Valium...
I don't believe it. Jason's mother died of ovarian cancer in 1969.
So?
I thought she was a killer, too. You know... that she chopped up a bunch of teenage camp counselors... before she was decapitated.
That's the problem with this case. Everyone thinks they know Jason's life story. But they don't. What you're remembering is a _movie_. Fiction. In the movie, Jason's mother runs around, killing people after Jason drowns in Crystal Lake
None of that's true?
Well, Jason _was_ in a canoe accident in 1967 and presumed drowned. His mother died a few years later after a long bout with cancer. Some time in the early eighties, there were a string of murders out by Crystal Lake... People started saying it was Jason... back from the dead.
So, what are you saying... that he didn't kill all those people?
My job is not to determine his guilt or innocence. That's up to the jury. My job is defend him.
Don't get me wrong. I don't care. But the professional part of me is interested in how you rationalize what you do.
I don't "rationalize" anything. I'm his lawyer  he's my client. That's all.
That didn't sound very convincing.
What do you want  a tidy psychological profile? You want to hear that I was falsely accused of a crime I didn't commit... and that's driven me to defend others? Or maybe you want to me to get in touch with my feelings... talk about my childhood...
No. You've told me all I need to know.
Oh?
You're obviously going through a critical moral dilemma. And you're putting up barriers against anyone who tries to probe your conscience. But it is heartening to know that you do have a conscience.
Not much here. Jason was brought in a couple more times for insomnia... that's about it.
Wait a minute. Let me see that. She hands him the file.
The mother said the boy hadn't slept for over three _months_. A physical examination showed dilated pupils, temperature of oneohtwo, blood chemistry highly imbalanced...
That's pretty weird. Is it possible for someone to not sleep for months?
It's rare... but there are cases where people go for years without sleep. They diagnosed Jason with simple insomnia... but that's not what it looks like to me. He has every indication of having _insomnolesence_.
Insomnolesence...
It's a neurological disorder affecting the hypothalamus. The part of the brain that causes sleepiness is inactive. They didn't know about it back in the sixties. Even now, it's not understood very well.
So Jason doesn't sleep... how does that help us?
Insomnolesence has been known to cause psychotic episodes... delusions...
If we could prove that Jason suffers from this disorder... and that his homicidal behavior has been a direct result of a medical condition...
Not guilty by reason of insanity. Case closed.
How do we prove it?
Simple. We sedate him, induce a somnolesent state, and study his REM patterns when he's unconscious. If he has the disorder, his REMS will be highly abnormal. Ruby smiles.
Then I'd say it's bedtime for Jason.
How long will he need to be asleep?
We're going to need at least two full REM cycles to get a clear neurological profile. Three hours minimum, six hours ideal.
Well, that's it. He'll be asleep in a few minutes, but his first REMcycle probably won't kick in for another hour or so. Is there a place we can get something to eat in this town?
There's a pizza place over on Market.
Cute waitresses?
That's open to debate.
I'll take my chances. Come on, I'm buying.
There's nothing to see here. He sleeps... we record it. That's all that happens.
He's my client, and this is important. Enjoy your waitresses.
I think I'm onto something, Joe.
Me too. I'm drunk.
Well, I'm onto something more useful. You ever hear of a man named Fred Krueger?
Krueger... doesn't ring a bell.
He was a child killer in the late sixties... in a town called Springwood about eight miles from here. Guess what his murder weapon was? A glove with sixinch blades.
Fascinating.
Now.... according to the file, Krueger was burned to death in a fire in 1968. But get this  beginning in 1984, there was _another_ series of murders in Springwood. All teenagers... all killed in their sleep... all killed with finger blades just like Krueger's.
I thought you said Krueger burned to death.
That's right. The murders in the eighties were never solved. But... there were teenaged witnesses who said Krueger had the ability to appear in your dreams... and that if he killed you in a dream, it would kill you in the real world.
Uhhuh...
Don't you see? Jason was _asleep_. And he was dreaming  the REM patterns prove that. And I saw finger blades just like Krueger's come out of Jason's chest. There has to be a connection.
Yeah... I think I understand... You're drunk, too.
See this?
Yeah, what is it?
_It's a second REM pattern_.
It's as though there were two people in that room... both of them asleep... both of them dreaming.
That doesn't make sense.
Add it to the list.
So what do we do?
I don't suppose I can go back to the University and chase young coeds again... pretend this whole thing never happened...
Not yet.
Then I'd say we should put Jason under again... run another tape on him and see what happens. We'll get extra data this time. Video... infrared... the works.
Great. When can you do it?
Tomorrow. If you can clear it with the Sheriff's department.
I'll have to lean on them pretty hard after what happened last night... but I think I can do it. Let me know what happens.
You're not going to be there?
I was there once... that was enough. Besides... I have to go out to Jason's house tomorrow. They're... digging up some new evidence.
It's all right. I'm simply in shock... this is what happens to people when they experience events they can't understand or comprehend. The mind shuts down temporarily and tries to shield itself from the horrific imagery it's been exposed to. I'm going to need a lot of therapy.
It was Krueger, wasn't it?
You saw him?
A cameraman caught him on videotape. Joe, I saw an entire sheriff's squad fighting and losing against an enemy that wasn't there...
What are you doing?
Checking out a theory. Just keep talking to him.
This is Jason's REM pattern... and this is the boy's REM pattern. They're identical.
How's that possible?
Jason's asleep... maybe he's dreaming of himself as a young boy... and that boy is sitting right here. I think he's some kind of projection from Jason's subconscious.
So Krueger thinks Jason's dead... leaves him in the lake... but the boy actually wakes up on the shore... crawls off into the woods... where he lives the rest of his life alone.
Alone... but with a murderous fury inside him... which led him to kill dozens of people.
If I'm right, this happened before the Krueger murders in Springwood. That means that Jason might've been Krueger's first victim.
Except this victim got away. I wonder if 
Where's he going?
I don't know... but I think he's pissed.
Great. Now there's _two_ serial killers on the loose.
Krueger's the greater danger right now. We have to stop him. _Springwood_. That's where he'll go. That's where he's always gone. But Springwood's not like Crystal Lake. There's a couple hundred thousand people there. He could be anywhere.
You know how to use one of those?
I used to go hunting with my father when I was a kid.
Think it'll do any good?
Krueger's in the real world... maybe he's mortal, like us.
And if he's not?
Then we're all in a lot of trouble.
What's that?
_Neurolar_. It's a stimulant  it's also a serotonin inhibitor. It suppresses all electrical activity in the hippocampus... the part of the brain that controls dreaming.
So you think it might counteract Krueger's ability to make us hallucinate?
Ten CC's of this shit and you won't be dreaming about anything.
How long will the effect last?
About ten minutes.
Ten minutes...
If I give you a bigger dose, it'll give you a heart attack.
We're down to seven minutes.
Let's split up. You take the left side, I'll take the right. We'll meet in front of the Cineplex.
Are you all right?
For the moment! You've only got about two minutes left! Hurry! Ruby takes off towards the Cineplex...
What happened? Where's Jason?
My client... is dead. But I think he's a free man.
Are you going to plead insanity?
I think it's our best bet. They're taking apart his house right now... they found weapons, blood, a mountain of evidence. We can't say he was framed.
Sorry.
It's all right. Now... we're going to need a really good headdoctor for this. Someone who can get up on the stand and tell the jury that our client is mentally insane and has been for years... We'll go through a dozen doctors before we find one who's willing to testify for us.
Now... I think the video store's open for another couple of hours. Let's go.
Video store?
So... why can't Jason get a fair trial?
Because everyone knows he's guilty...
Wrong. Jason can't get a fair trial because of _these_.
You think that's going to work?
I don't know if anything's going to work in this case. Therefore, we have to try everything.
You watch this garbage?
This is a legitimate cinematic genre. Just like Westerns, Comedies, Film Noire, Science Fiction...
"Zombie Sluts From Beyond the Grave."
A seminal film. First ever depiction of a fully nude triple impalement.
Three. Where's my client?
Your... client is being booked right now. He'll be in cell five.
What are the charges?
Shit. We're still putting the victim list together. You'll need a forklift for the case file. I suggest you hire some help, and don't expect to get a lot of sleep for the next few months. You're about to defend the most notorious serial killer in American history.
I thought that was Ted Bundy.
Compared to this guy... amateur.
A house?
That's right. Wasn't on any of the maps... we could barely see it through the underbrush. Place must've been abandoned for twenty years.
Ruby... this guy almost took out an entire Tactical Response Team. You can't expect me to just leave you 
He doesn't look like he's going anywhere, Bill. And if necessary, I can get a judicial order reaffirming the right of my client to speak to his attorney in private.
That's right... it... it came right out of his chest...
Who's chest?
Jason's. It came out of his chest... a hand with long blades on the fingers...
And this hand... it... it slashed Doctor Layton's throat... and the Deputy. Then it grabbed Danny by the head... And it pulled his head right down into his chest... I couldn't... Hayes lays a hand his shoulder.
Take it easy, Ruby... it's all right. Now, try to think clearly... don't you mean _Jason's_ hand... don't you mean he grabbed a scalpel and slashed Doctor Layton's throat?
Did you find a scalpel? Did you find a murder weapon?
Two.
I'm not sure I'd call them murder exactly. More like a couple of bar fights that got out of hand.
I seem to recall arguing the same thing in court while you were trying to file murderone charges.
That's my job.
Quite a circus.
And we're in the center ring. You sure you want to wear that blazer?
What?
You're about to be a media darling  you might want to dress the part.
Ruby, come on. You witnessed a brutal triple murder and you're having trouble accepting it. Think about what you're saying. You really expect a jury to believe that Jason has a mystery killer living in his tummy?
I know how this sounds, but that's what happened.
I can't wait to hear your opening argument. "Ladies and Gentlemen of the Jury... the Defense will prove that Jason Voorhees did not kill all of these people. They, in fact, committed mass suicide and then buried themselves in his back yard..."
Fuck you.
What's going on?
Some kind of emergency back at the Sheriff's Station. Four deputies shot... some kind of explosion... I don't know what's going on, but they're panicking back there.
It's still on.
What?
His camera... it's still recording.
What happened?
_Krueger_...
Who?
Come on.
Hello?
Who is this? What's going on?
This is Janet Davenport  I'm the Realtor.
Where's Ken? Is he all right?
I don't know...
What about that other guy?
Other guy?
Yeah. Ken said there was another guy there... _big_ guy... then he dropped the phone. What's going on?
Janet, are you okay? Are you there?
He... he's here...
Who's there?
Oh my god... this is his house... _we're in his fucking house_...
Janet, goddamnit, what's going on?
Jas... Jason Voorhees... he's here...
I don't think the people who live around here would like that very much...
Do you think they like the fact that tourism has dropped ninetyeight percent in the last ten years?
No, but...
And do you think they like the fact that half the country thinks Crystal Lake is filled with corpses?
That's not true...
We're not talking about truth, we're talking about perception. And the perception is that Crystal Lake means inbred psychopaths running around the hills with axes and hockey masks chopping up teenagers. That, my dear, is what we call an _image problem_.
Beautiful trees... sturdy trunks... lots of branches... We can do some great logging up here.
Logging? We'll need an environmental impact study for that...
I don't think you're getting in the spirit of things, Janet. We'll buy whatever studies we need 
Jesus Christ!
Just a deer, Mister Biller. Part of the local wildlife.
Get rid of them.
Okay... well... I think it's this way...
Great.
Mister Biller?
Yeah?
I think we're lost.
You have a map.
I know... but we left the main trail... and I can't find any landmarks around here... I've been trying to figure it out but...
I didn't think there were any houses up here...
You learn something new every day. Let's go.
Structure might be salvageable... let's see what the interior looks like.
Mister Biller... now that we can see the lake, I think we should follow the shoreline to 
Help me with this.
There doesn't seem to be any water damage. Kind of cozy, actually.
I really think we should go back...
I want to look at the rest of the house.
Hello?
Ken, it's Bruce. Listen, we've got a nibble on the Pendleton financing.
Really? How much?
Fifty.
Fifty? We need seventyfive.
Ken, we've been through this...
You tell them if they come up to seventyfive, I'll cut them in on the Crystal Lake package.
Don't tell me you're still thinking of buying Casa de Psycho...
Hey, smartass, I'm up here right now in a... luxury alpine retreat, with a two million dollar view of the lake.
Chain saws.
You want to put in chain saws?
No, no... listen, when I get back to New York we'll meet with the Board.
We miss you.
Thanks for the presents.
We love the presents.
What's going to happen to the goat? He's going to eat the goat?!
Excellent.
I'm sorry   I'm sorry  
Turn it off, Lex! Turn it off!
I don't know, I don't know. I'm sorry  
Why did you do this?
I don't know! I'm sorry!
Why are we hurrying if there's nothing wrong?
What if we fall? I hate trees.
I hate trees!
They don't bother me.
Yeah, you weren't in that last one.
No, no, sh, sh, sh   stop! Stop! Stop! Don't let the monsters come over here!
They're not monsters, Lex. They're just animals. And these are herbivores.
That means they only eat vegetables. But for you, I think they'd make an exception.
I'm a hacker!
That's what I said! You're a nerd! They don't call you people hackers anymore   they call you people nerds!
Hey Lex, ahhhchooo! Hey Lex, com here.
What?
Hey Lex, you forgot to say gazundheit.
That's not funny.
That was great!
Jump, Timmy! It's too late!
I'm afraid I am gonna fall!
You're gonna get electrocuted electrified! The power's coming back!
Shut up! You're scaring me. Stop! You're scaring me.
Why didn't I build in Orlando?
I'll keep an eye on it. Maybe it'll swing south like the last one.
Ray, start the tour program.
Sustain winds 45 knots.
Tell them when they get back to the cars.
Thanks, Steve.
Well?
There's no sign of him anywhere.
Robert   I wonder if perhaps you would be kind good enough to take a gas jeep and bring back my grandchildren.
Sure.
I am totally unappreciated in my time. We can run the whole park from this room, with minimal staff, for up to three days. You think that kind of automation is easy? Or cheap? You know anybody who can network eight Connection Machines and debug two million lines of code for what I bid this job? Because I'd sure as hell like to see them try.
I'm sorry about your financial problems. I really am. But they are your problems.
You're right, John. You're absolutely right. Everything's my problem.
I will not get drawn into another financial conversation with you, Dennis. I really will not.
I don't think there's been any debate. There's no debate...my mistakes....
I don't blame people for their mistakes, but I do ask that they pay for them.
Thanks, Dad.
You'll have to get use to Dr. Malcolm! He suffers from a deplorable excess of personality, especially for a mathematician!
Chaotician, actually! Chaotician!
John doesn't subscribe to Chaos, particularly what it has to say about his little science project!
Codswollop! Ian, you've never come close to explaining these concerns of yours about this island!
I certainly have! Very clearly! Because of the behavior of the system in phase space!
A load, if I may say so. of fashionable number crunching, thats all it is!
John, John.
Don't do that!
Dr. Grant, Dr. Sattler  you've heard of Chaos Theory?
Your silence intrigues me.
John, the kind of control you're attempting is not possible. If there's one thing the history of evolution has taught us, it's that life will not be contained. Life breaks free. It expands to new territories. It crashes through barriers. Painfully, maybe even.. dangerously, but and...well, there it is.
Alright Donald, alright, but just let him talk. I want to hear all viewpoints. I truly do. I truly am.
Don't you see the danger, John, inherent in what you're doing here? Genetic power is the most awesome force ever seen on this planet. But you wield it like a kid who's found his dad's gun.
You don't give us our due credit. Our scientists have done things no one could ever do before.
Your scientists were so preoccupied with whether or not they could that they didn't stop to think if they should. Science can create pesticides, but it can't tell us not to use them. Science can make a nuclear reactor, but it can't tell us not to build it!
But this is nature! Why not give an extinct species a second chance?! I mean, Condors. Condors are on the verge of extinction   if I'd created a flock of them on the island, you wouldn't be saying any of this! have anything to say at all!
Hold on   this is no species that was obliterated by deforestation or the building of a dam. Dinosaurs had their shot. Nature selected them for extinction.
I don't understand this Luddite attitude, especially from a scientist. How could we stand in the light of discovery and not act?
There's nothing that great about discovery. What's so great about discovery? It's a violent, penetrative act that scars what it explores. What you call discovery I call the rape of the natural world!
I think perhaps I'll just sit down. I don't suppose you think all that much of me now, do you?
You're all right, John You're okay. It's just you don't have intelligence. You have "thinktelligence." You think narrowly and call it "being focused." You don't see the consequences. You're very good at solving problems, at getting answers   but you just don't know the right questions.
That will teach you to trust Grandpa.
Wait a minute? What do you mean "worked"? Everything is still off!
Tim! Lex!
Dr. Grant! Dr. Grant!
He's knocked out! He's knocked out! Dr. Grant! Dr. Grant! Daddy, daddy!
Let's get you out.
Dad   Dad  
Shhh   I'm right here, Lex. I'm going to look after you. I'm going to help your brother. I want you to stay here and wait for me, okay?
He left us! He left us!
That's not what I'm going to do. Good!
Liar! You said you wouldn't leave!
I'm trying to use psychology to get you out of the drain, you know!
It's safe?
It's safe.
It's safe.
Go that's the way we're going to go. What do you say?
Alright.
Hear that? Are you hearing this?
No, I didn't hear anything. No, we're okay.
Tim, Tim, Tim....
Oh, I hate the other kind.
They're just doing what they do. Well the other kind     just do what they do.
Dorkatops!
What are you gonna do now if you don't have to dig of dinosaur bones any more?
I guess we'll just have to evolve too.
What if the dinosaur comes back while we're all asleep?
I'll stay awake.
All night?
All night.
Go away!
It's okay! It's okay! It's a brachiosaur!
I like cows.
You're a beautiful big animal.
What's that?
Well, on the tour   the film said they used frog DNA to fill in the gene sequence gaps. They mutated the dinosaur's genetic code and blended it with that of frogs. Now, some West African frogs have been known to spontaneously change sex from male to female, in a single sex environment. Malcolm was right! Look, life found a way!
Watch how it eats!
Please!
Bet you'll never look at birds the same way again!
Let's go!
Okay. Keep low. Follow me.
C'mon Tim, move down, damn it!
Timmy! The power is coming down, quick!
Do as he says! The power's coming back, Timmy!
Timmy, let go! You're gonna have to let go! Count to three. I'll catch you.
Timmy! Do as he says! Timmy! Do as Dr. Grant says, quick!
Shhhh. Tim, I'm right here below you. Easy catch. One, two, three. You count it yourself. One, two, three  
You're gonna get electrocuted electrified!
It's am easy catch, you let   go   you do the counting, you count it, Tim. One, two, three  you do all the counting, okay?
Timmy, listen to Dr. Grant!
I'm coming up there Tim! I'm coming to get you! Lex, I've got to get him!
I am gonna have to find the others and get you to a doctor. Will you look after Tim, Lex?
Yes.
What works?
Phone security systems, everything works. You ask for it, we got it!
Hey, we were saving that!
For today, I guarantee it.
And who in God's name do you think you are....?
John Hammond. And I am delighted to finally meet you in person Dr Grant.
Not just kids   for everyone. We're going to open next year. Unless the lawyers kill me first. I don't care for lawyers. You?
I, uh, don't really know any. We  
Well, I'm afraid I do. There's one, a particular pebble in my shoe. He represents my investors. He says they insist on outside opinions.
What kind of opinions?
Not to put a fine point on it, your kind. Let's face it, in your particular field, you're the top minds. If I could just get you two to sign off on the park   you know, give a wee testimonial   I could get back on schedule    schedule.
Well, it's   right up your alley. Look, why don't you both come on down for the weekend. Love to have the opinion of a paleobotoanist as well. I've got a jet standing by at Choteau.
No, I'm sorry, that wouldn't be possible. We've just discovered a new skeleton, and  
I could compensate you by fully funding your dig
  this would be an awfully unusual time  
For a further three years.
That thing's got a what, twentyfive, twentyseven foot neck?
The brachiosaur? Thirty.
  and you're going to sit there and try to tell me it can push blood up a thirtyfoot neck without a fourchambered heart and get around like that?! Like that!? This is like a knockout punch for warmbloodedness.
We clocked the Trex at thirtytwo miles an hour.
Can't you stop these things?!
Sorry! It's kind of a ride!
Let's get outta here!
Blood temperature feels like high eighties.
Wu?
Robert. Robert Muldoon, my game warden from Kenya. Bit of an alarmist, I'm afraid, But he's dealt with the raptors more than anyone.
Alan Grant. Tell me, what kind of metabolism do they have? What's their growth rate? rate of growth.
Yes, yes, yes, which is why we take extreme precautions. They viewing area below us will have eightinch tempered glass set in reinforced steel frames to  
Do they show intelligence? With the brain cavity like theirs we assumed  
Ah   they're here.
Who?
You four are going to have a little company out in the park. Spend a little time with our target audience. Maybe they'll help you get the spirit of this place.
What does he mean by "target audience"?
Mr. Hammond, I've decided not to endorse your Park.
After careful consideration, Dr. Grant   so have I.
So you two dig up dinosaurs?
Try to!
Cloning from What?! Loy extraction has never recreated an intact DNA strand!
Not without massive sequence gaps!
to Grant) She's, uh   tenacious.
You have no idea.
to Ellie) You will remember to wash your hands before you eat anything?
You got any kids?
Me? Oh, hell yes. Three. I love 'em. I love kids. Anything at all can and does happen.
You're married?
Occasionally. Always on the lookout for the future ex Mrs. Malcolm.
By the way, Dr. Sattler  she's not like, uh, available, is she?  
Why?
Why? Oh, I'm sorry. Are you two, uh   are? I wish you the best luck.
What'd I touch?!
You haven't touched didn't touch anything. We're stopping. We've stopped.
I must've touched something. This happens all the time. It must be my fault. Machines hate me.
Machines hate you?
Yeah, they hate me.
You want to talk about this?
No.
Their radio's out too. Gennaro said to stay put.
The kids okay?
Well, I didn't ask. Why wouldn't they be?
Kids get scared.
What's to be scared about? It's just a little hiccup in the power.
I didn't say I was scared.
I didn't say you were scared.
I know.
Fine.
Where does he think he's going?
When you gotta go, you gotta go.
Keep absolutely still   it's vision's based on movement!
You're sure?!
Relatively.
Oh my God!
We gotta do something.
What? What can we do?
There's gotta be something  
I read your book.
Oh, yeah   great.
Because they sure don't look like birds to me. I heard a meteor hit the earth and made like this one hundred mile crater someplace down in Mexico  
Listen, ahh  
Tim.
Tim. Which car were you planning on  
Whichever one you are.
And his book was a lot fatter than yours.
Really?
These look kind of familiar.
Triceratops was a constant browser, and constant browsers would be constantly sick.
Are you okay? Can you move? Tim! Are you okay?
Tim, are you okay?
I'm stuck. The seat's got my feet!
Tim, I'll come back for you. I'll get Lex out first.
I threw up.
That's okay. Listen, give me your hand.
Okay, that's not so bad, ah Tim?
Yes it is.
It's just like coming out of a tree house. Did your dad ever build you a tree house, Tim, eh?
No.
Me too. Okay. Well, the main thing about climbing is never, never look down, never.
This is impossible. How am I going...I can't make it. This is...it's about fifty feet.
So am I going to help you with your foot?
What if the car falls? What if the wheels fall?
'Course you could just wait in there while we go back and get help.
That's a good idea.
You'll probably be safe enough on your own 
I doubt it.
Maybe  it's hard to say.
It's okay to call them brontosaurs, Tim. It's a great name. It's a romantic name. It means "thunder lizard".
"Thunder lizard!"
StraightA brainiac!
Could you guys possibly cool that for a  
What do you call a blind dinosaur?
I don't know. What do you call a blind dinosaur?
A Doyouthinkhesaurus. What do you call a blind dinosaur's dog?
You got me.
A Doyouthinkhesaurus Rex.
Take a bite, take a bite. I'm not letting go.
It's so strong! Look at its nose. Need help?
Come on, try some. Take a bite.
It's good protein. Come on, Lex. Why don't you touch it? Look at his nose.
This is a seventyseven ton animal. Come on over, Lex! Just think of it as a big cow. Look at it's teeth? Come here, girl. This is a seventyseven ton animal. Just think of it as a big cow!
You know what this is? It's a dinosaur egg. The dinosaurs are breeding.
But   my grandpa said all the dinosaurs were girls.
Amphibian DNA.
It's a bit of a climb. You guys think you can make it?
Nope.
I can't! I'm scared!
Tim, you're gonna have to let go. I'm going to count to three.
Go, go, go, jump!
You're crazy! I'm not gonna jump!
Tim, you're going to have to let go of the fence. Tim! Get down right now. Get off the fence! Now!
Are you crazy? What if you miss? I hate it up here.
Tim, I'm right here. Easy catch. Easy catch. Count to Three..
The full fifty mile of perimeter fence are in place?
And the concrete moats, and the motion sensor tracking systems. Donald, dear boy, do try to relax and enjoy yourself.
Let's get something straight, John. This is not a weekend excursion, this is a serious investigation of the stability of the island. Your investors, whom I represent, are deeply concerned. Fortyeight hours from now, if they    aren't convinced. I'm not convinced. And I can shut you down John.
Fortyeight hours from now, I'll be accepting your apologies. Now get out of the way. So I can see them!
This is overwhelming, John. Are these characters animatronics?
No, we don't have any animatronics here. These are the real miracle workers of Jurassic Park.
John, we   what I'm just saying....
Relax Donald, relax. They're scientists. They ought to be curious.
And we can charge anything we want! Two thousand a day, ten thousand a day   people will pay it! And then there's the merchandising  
Donald, this park was not built to carter only to the super rich. Everyone in the world's got a right to enjoy these animals.
Sure, they will, they will. We'll have a   coupon day or something.
  from combined revenue streams for all three parks should reach eight to nine billion dollars a year  
That's conservative, of course. There's no reason to speculate wildly.
I've never been a rich man. I hear it's nice. Is it nice?
I don't believe it. I expected you to come down here and defend me from these characters and the only one I've got on my side it the bloodsucking lawyer!?
Thank you.
Have a heart gentlemen. Their parents are getting a divorce and they need the diversion.
Hey! Where are the brakes?
Brakes? No. No brakes. They're electric cars, guided by this track in the roadway, and totally nonpolluting, top of the line!
I can't see.
What are we looking for?
Dilophosaurus.
Up and down, up and down!
I can't believe we invited Ian Malcolm.
People were gettin' bloody noses   things on your head   aneurisms  
Hey! Where did you find those things?
In a box under my seat.
Are they heavy?
Yeah.
Then they're expensive. Put them back.
Hola, Juanito
Hola, bienvenido
What's this I hear at the airport Hammond's not even here?
He sends his apologies.
You're telling me that we're facing a $20 million lawsuit from the family of that injured worker and Hammond couldn't even be bothered to see me?
He had to leave early to be with his daughter. She's getting a divorce.
I understand that. I'm sorry to hear that. We'd be well advised to deal with this situation now. The insurance company  
Hammond hates inspections. They slow everything down.
Juanito, if they pull the funding, that will really slow things down. If they pull the funding that's going to slow things down around here.
If two experts sign off on the island, the insurance guys'll back off. I already got Ian Malcolm, but they think he's too trendy. They want Alan Grant.
Grant? You'll never get him out of Montana.
Why not?
Because he's like me. He's a digger.
No.
No? Nonlinear equations? Strange attractions? Dr. Sattler, I refuse to believe that you are not familiar with the concept of attraction!
That's right. Will break through.
I get ah  
I know, it's very exciting.
And scary.
And scary.
When people try to control things that it's out of their power  
It's antinature.
Antinature.
God creates dinosaurs. God destroys dinosaurs. God creates man. Man destroys God. Man creates dinosaurs.
Dinosaur eats man. Woman inherits the Earth.
You see? The tyrannosaur doesn't obey set patterns or park schedules. It's the essence of Chaos.
I'm still not clear on Chaos.
It simply deals with unpredictability in complex systems. It's only principle is the Butterfly Effect. A butterfly can flap its wings in Peking and in Central Park you get rain instead of sunshine.
Uh   thumb! The same way.
It changed. Why? Okay, back over your wrist. Because and here is the principle of tiny variations   the orientations of the hairs  
Alan, listen to this.
  on your hand, the amount of blood distending in your vessels, imperfections in the skin  
Oh, imperfections?
Microscopic   never repeat, and vastly affect the outcome. That's what?
Unpredictability....
And even if we haven't seen it yet, I'm quite sure it's going on in this park right now.
Alan?
No one could have predicted Dr. Grant would suddenly jump out of a moving vehicle!
Alan?
Dino droppings?
Yeah.
Can we chance moving him?
Please   chance it.
Faster, faster!
Must go faster, it's getting closer  must go faster!
Faster! Shit, shit, shit, faster!
Must go faster, go, go. Open it up, 5th gear, 5th gear! Here it comes! Stand on it! Fifth  stand on it, 5th gear, go!
Seven days?! Seven days?! Oh, great. Oh good   clever.
That'll  it'd be a first; man and dinosaur all die together. John's plan.
Yes?
  shut up.
Yes. It's not a criticism, by the way.
They show extreme intelligence, even problem solving. Especially the big one. We bred eight originally, but when she came in, she took over the pride and killed all but two of the others. That one  when she looks at you, you can see she's thinking working things out. She's the reason we have to feed 'em like this. She had them all attacking the fences when the feeders came.
The fences are electrified, right?
That's right. But they never attack the same place twice. They were testing the fences for weaknesses. Systematically. They remembered.
Dr. Sattler, I've seen a lot of animal attacks. People just disappear. No blood, no trace. That's the way it happens.
No, no, no!
Ellie, com one!!
The other car!
Dr. Grant!
Alan!
Do you see anything?
I don't know.
Alan?!
They're not here.
What about the lysine contingency? We could put that into effect!
What's that?
I can't wait anymore. Something went wrong. I'm going to go get the power back on.
You can't just stroll down the road, you know.
I'm going with you.
Okay.
Come on, let's go.
We'll discuss sexism in survival situations when I get back. You just take me through this step by step. I'm on channel two.
Okay, I'm on channel two.
Stick to my heels.
Oh my God. Aw, God.
The shutdown must have turned off all the fences. Goddamn it! Even Nedry knew better than to mess with the raptor fence.
C'mon on, this way.
I can see the shed from here! We can make it if we run!
No. We can't.
Why not?
Because we're being hunted. From the bushes straight ahead.
It's all right.
Like hell it is!
Four complete skeletons. . . . such a small area. . . the same time horizon  
They died together?
The taphonomy sure looks that way.
If they died together, they lived together. Suggests some kind of social order.
A drought. The lake was shrinking  
That's good. That's right! They died around a driedup puddle! Without fighting each other. This is looking good.
Postmortem contraction of the posterior neck ligaments. Velociraptor?
Yes. Good shape, too. Five, six feet high. I'm guessing nine feet long. Look at the  
You know, if you really wanted to scare the kid you could've just pulled a gun on him.
Yeah, I know, you know...kids. You want to have one of those?
Well, not one of those, well yeah, a possibly one at some point could be a good thing. What's so wrong with kids?
Oh, Ellie, look. They're noisy, they're messy, they're sticky, they're expensive.
Cheap, cheap, cheap.
They smell.
Oh my god, they do not! They don't smell.
They do smell. Some of them smell.. babies smell.
Alright, the one on the airplane had an accident, but usually babies don't smell.
They know very little about the Jurassic Period they know less about the Cretaceous.
The what?
The Cretaceous.
Anything else, you old fossil?
Yeah, plenty. Some of them can't walk!
It frustrates me so much that I love you, that I need to strangle you right now!
Okay, who's the jerk?
Uh, this is our paleobotanist, Dr Ellie.....
Sattler.
And what are those?
Small versions of adults, honey.
Why would they care what we think?
What kind of park is it?
The movement!
The   agility. You're right!
Ellie, we can tear up the rule book on coldbloodedness. It doesn't apply, they're totally wrong! This is a warmblooded creature. They're totally wrong.
They were wrong. Case closed. This thing doesn't live in a swamp to support it's body weight for God's sake!
You've got a Trex!? He's got a Trex! A Trex! He said he's 
Say again?
Ellie, they're absolutely   they're moving in herds. They do move in herds!
We were right!
How did you do it?! How did you do this?!
So what are you thinking?
We're out of a job.
Wait a minute! How do you interrupt the cellular mitosis?!?
Can't we see the unfertilized host eggs?!
Oh, shit.
Dilophosaurus.
Oh Ellie. It's so beautiful. It's the most beautiful thing I ever saw.
It's my favorite.
Ellie, I've been thinking there's something about the periodicity doesn't had up.
I know.
Constantly sick.
Not just every six weeks.
Yeah, I know.
Elm that's it, it explains the periodicity, the  
  the undigested state of the berries because it's  
  totally incidental unrelated to the feeding pattern  
  like birds  
  like birds. What happen is, they swallow the stones and hold them in a muscular sack in their stomachs  
  a gizzard  
  which is called a gizzard, and it helps them mash their food, but what happens after a while  
  what happens is that after a while, the stones get smooth, every six weeks, so the animal regurgitates them  
  barfs them up  
  and swallows fresh ones.
And when she swallows the stones, she swallows the poison berries too. That's what makes her sick. Good work Tim.
Are you sure?
I'll just finish. Yeah, I want to finish.
It's just the two raptors, right? You're sure the third one's contained?
Yes, unless they figured out how to open doors.
Ellie   get back and boot up the door locks!
You can't hold it by yourself!
Ellie, get the gun! Try to reach the gun!
I can't get it! I can't get it unless I move!
Did I say jerk?
I'm sorry for the dramatic entrance, but I'm in a hurry. Will you have a wee bit of a drink now and then?
I have samples all over the kitchen.
Come along. I know my way around a kitchen. Come along.
There you are. Out you come.
Oh my God.
Could I have a tissue please?
Fascinating animals, fascinating.
Oh my God.
Give time, they'll out draw the Trex. Guarantee it.
Alan, these aren't bones anymore.
We're   still perfecting a viewing system. The raptors seem to be a bit resistant to integration into a park setting.
Malcolm's okay for now. I gave him a shot of morphine.
They'll all be fine. Who better to get the children through Jurassic Park than a dinosaur expert?
Carousel.
A carousel   and a seesaw. They all moved, motorized of course, but people would swear they could see the fleas. "I see the fleas, mummy! Can't you see the fleas?" Clown fleas, high wire fleas, fleas on parade...
But with this place, I   I wanted to give them something real, something that wasn't an illusion, something they could see and touch. An aim devoid of merit.
But you can't think through this one. You have to feel it.
You're absolutely right. Yes, you're right. Hiring Nedry was a mistake, that's obvious. We're over dependent on automation, I can see that now. But that's all correctable for the next time around.
John, John. John, you're still building onto that Flea Circus, that illusion. And now you're adding onto it by what you're doing here. That's the illusion.
Once we have control again we  
Control?! You never had control! I was overwhelmed by the power of this place. So I made a mistake too. I didn't have enough respect for that power, and it's out now. You're sitting here trying to pick up the pieces. John, there's nothing worth picking up. The only thing that matters now are the people we love. Alan, Lex, and Tim. And John, they're out there where people are dying   people are dying, you know?
This is just a delay, that's all this is. All major theme parks have had delays. When they opened Disneyland in 1956, nothing worked, nothing.
John....
But you know, I should really be the one going .
Why?
Well, because you're a   I'm a  
Look.
Mr. Arnold? He's not answering me. Okay I'm on the grating.
Good! Keep going, now. The cable will terminate in a big, gray box.
Okay, I'm following the tubing. I'm going down a passage way. How long does this stuff go for? Could you guys talk a little bit to me?
Imbalance, disorientation, labored breathing. Seems to happen about every six weeks or so.
Six weeks?
Yes, mitotic, pupils should be constricted.
These are dilated. Take a look.
They are? I'll be damned.
That's pharmacological. From local plant life.
Yes. We know they're toxic, but the animals don't eat them.
Are you sure?
Pretty sure.
There's only one way to be positive. I need to see some droppings. I have to see the dinosaur's droppings.
You won't be able to miss them. Can't miss them.
Sure. I've got a gas powered jeep. I can drop her at the visitor's center before I make the boat with the others.
I'll catch up with you. You can go with the others.
PaleoDNA? From what source? Where do you get 100 million year old dinosaur blood?!
Shhhhh!
Please   let's hear something from the others. Dr. Grant? I am sorry   Dr. Sattler?
The question is   how much can you know about an extinct ecosystem, and therefore, how could you assume you can control it? You have plants right here in this building, for example, that are poisonous. You picked them because they look pretty, but these are aggressive living things that have no idea what century they're living in and will defend themselves. Violently, if necessary.
Alan? Where are we going? You see something?
Uh   anybody else think we shouldn't be out here?
Yours was fully illustrated, honey.
Anybody at all. Feel free to speak up.
Doctors, if you please   I have to insist we get moving.
Oh, you know, if it's alright, I'd like to stay with Dr. Harding and finish with the trike. Is that okay?
You shouldn't use my name.
Dodgson, Dodgson. We got Dodgson here! See, nobody cares. Nice hat. What are you trying to look like, a secret agent?
Oh, I'll get 'em all.
Remember   viable embryos. They're no use to us if they don't survive.
How am I supposed to transport them?
What? No menthol?
Mr Nedry, Mr Nedry. The embryos have to be back here in San Jose by then.
That's up to your guy on the boat. Seven o'clock tomorrow night, at the east dock. Make sure he got it right.
I was wondering, how are you planning to beat the security?
I got an eighteen minute window. Eighteen minutes, and your company catches up on ten years of research.
Are we getting anywhere with these procedures of yours? I mean, what's hanging us up?
I ran a key check on every stroke Nedry entered today. It's all pretty standard stuff, until this one  
What one?
How many lines of code are there?
Uh   about two million.
Two million   great. That would help. Oh good, that'll take no time.
No, no, no, that's crazy, you're out of your mind, he's absolutely out of his mind  
Wait a minute. What exactly does this mean?
But would we get the phones back?
Yeah, again, in theory, but  
The lysine contingency  it's intended to prevent the spread of the animals is case they ever got off the island, but we could use it now. Dr. Wu inserted a gene that makes a single faulty enzyme in protein metabolism. Animals can't manufacture the amino acid lysine. Unless they're continually supplied with lysine by us, they'll go into a coma and die.
How would we cut off the lysine?
No trick to it. Just stop running the program. Leaving them unattended.
How long will this take?
'Bout thirty seconds.
Uh   Mr. Hammond  
Stop the program! Stop the program!
That storm center hasn't dissipated or changed course. We're going to have to cut the tour short, I'm afraid. Pick it up again tomorrow where we left off.
You're sure we have to?
It's not worth taking the chance, John.
Ladies and gentlemen, last shuttle to the dock leaves in approximately five minutes. Drop what you are doing and leave now.
Damn!
I found a way to reroute through the program. I'm turning the cars around in the rest area loop.
Rotten luck, this storm. Get my grandchildren on the radio will you? I don't want them to worry about a wee bit of rain.
Visitor vehicles are on their way back to the garage.
So how much for our first tour. Two noshows and one sick triceratops.
It could have been worse, John. It could have been a lot worse.
What?
The door security systems are shutting down.
Well, Nedry said a few systems would go offline, didn't he?
Woah, woah, woah, what the hell, what the hell?
What now?
Fences are failing, all over the park! A few minor systems, he said!
Find Nedry! Check the vending machines!
The monitors are failing.
Phones are out too.
Where did the vehicles stop?
We're talking, my dear, about a calculated risk, which is the only option left to us. We will never find the command NEDRY used. He covered his tracks far too well, and I think it's obvious he's not coming back. So shutting down the system  
I will not do it. You'll have to get somebody else, because I will not.
  shutting down the system is the only way to guarantee wiping out everything he did. If I understand correctly, all the system will come back on their original startup modes correct?
Theoretically, yeah , but we've never shut down the whole system. It may not come back at all.
Hey, we came here to observe, you came here to stripmine the place! It's a looter mentality, all you care about is what you can take.
None of that matters. Our communications equipment's been destroyed. If your radio and satellite phone were in those trailers that went off the cliff, and I'm guessing by the look on his face 
If we can't stay in the rex's territory, we have to move tonight.
Move where? Our boat's not coming for two days, your airlift is waiting for an order you have no way to send 
We have to send someone to look for him!
You go if you like, but we're not waiting for you. MOVE IT OUT!!
Ask her.
Can the kid walk?
You've got to be kidding.
Runs against my nature to hole up in a cave and wait.
So what's your story, Nick?
I was a cameraman for Nightline for six years, been freelance since '91. Do a lot of work for Greenpeace.
That must be interesting. What drew you there?
Women. 'Bout eighty percent female in Greenpeace.
Very noble of you. You don't think you're bringing that thing onto the island, do you?
Hey, I wouldn't want to spook the woolly mammoths.
You think this is all a joke?
Oh, please. How am I supposed to keep a straight face when   Johnny Cash here tells me I'm going to Skull Island?
Ian's a very good friend of mine.
He doesn't need a friend, he needs a shrink.
I believe in him.
 way we could safely 
Oh, no!
The kid scores with cheap sentiment.
Ian, if we recall the boat now, we've made two invasive landings in one day. That'll have to go in any paper I write, and it will leave room for people to say our findings were contaminated. You know the academic world as well as I do, once they smell blood in the water, you're dead. Our presence has got to be one hundred percent antiseptic. That means if we bend a blade of grass, we bend it right back the way it
Ruining everything, that's what they're doing. You could choke on the diesel smoke already!
Ian, nothing we observe will be valid if we're trailing along in the wake of an army.
That little black line?
That little black line means death for this infant. The fibula won't heal straight, so the ankle joint can't pivot when he stands on his hind feet. The baby won't be able to run, and probably can't even walk. It'll be crippled, and a predator will pick it off before it gets more than a few weeks old.
Give it more morphine!
We'll kill it with too much, we'll put it into respiratory arrest! I'm almost done. Damn it, I need another adhesive, something pliable I can 
Hold it down, Nick!
I'm trying!
There's, uh  there's an unwritten rule when a news crew is in a war zone. You stop the van every two miles and decide whether or not to go on. Whether or not you feel lucky. One "no" from anybody in the group and you turn around right there, no question asked, nobody embarrassed. Well? Do we go on? Immediately:
No.
WHAT ARE YOU
JUMP!
Where's Kelly?
Where's Ian?
No more smoking. We leave no scent of any kind. No hair tonics, no cologne, seal all our food in plastic bags. We will observe and document, but we will not interact.
That's a scientific impossibility, you know. Heisenberg uncertainty principle. Whatever you study, you also change.
You know you were putting yourself in a potentially dangerous situation, but you didn't bother to find out how dangerous before you leapt in. You don't have the faintest idea what's going on on this island!
What do you want to do, Ian, lock her up for curiosity? Where do you think she gets it?
You're going home. I'm sending a radio call for the boats. We'll all go down to the lagoon and wait for them.
Lighten up, Ian, you sound like a high school viceprincipal.
I'm her father.
No! We're an independently funded expedition.
Funded by whom?
John Hammond.
Can you set up?
It has to be temporary, something that'll break apart and fall off as the animal grows...
Think fast, Sarah.
That's impossible, they can't have the sensory equipment to track it all the way here!
Current evidence seems to be to the contrary, wouldn't you say?! GIVE IT TO THEM!
Born free, as free as the wind blows. As free as the grass grows 
Are you insane?!
I swear to God, it works with lions sometimes! There we are  your baby is free 
All right. I'm satisfied with the evidence we have right now. I feel vindicated. John Hammond will too. Do you have enough to publish?
They will come after me. But I can collect some stool samples, for DNA with that, Nick's tapes, and the rest of you to back me up, it should stand when we get back.
Then the only thing left to do is make sure we do get back. I'll call the mainland on the satellite phone and have them send the boat right now. This expedition is over.
Oh, God.
What?!
They're pushing us over the cliff.
You know, even if we do get those tapes back, people are going to say it's just another hoax. Ian Malcolm's alien autopsy.
Maybe. Maybe not.
Ian, they will misplace our evidence, shoot holes in our testimony, and say some special effects genius created the animals. The only way people will ever believe that dinosaurs exist is if you dump a Trex in the middle of times Square.
Ian. It's guano.
What?
These formations. They're dried 
Birdshit?
No. I'm quite certain you can't.
Look, we have two choices. We can hike back down to the lagoon, where we can sit for two days, in the open, next to a heavily used water source while we're waiting for your boat to arrive, or we can head for the village, where we might find some shelter and we can call for help.
We'd never make it past the raptors. Trust me, I have some experience in this matter.
You ever heard of Gambler's Ruin?
What's that?
A statistical phenomenon. Says everything in the world goes in streaks. It's real, you see it everywhere  in weather, in river flooding, in baseball, in blackjack, in stock markets. Once things go bad, they tend to stay bad. Bad things cluster. They go to hell together.
Feeling a bit blue, are we?
Just  flawed. Very deeply flawed.
Why did you come here?
So that others would know about this place?
Why should they?
Because it exists.
It'll still exit if they go on not knowing, won't it?
Yes. And people will live in the absence of truth.
So the truth is more important to you than your life?
I don't care about my life. But if I'd ever thought for a second that she would be in danger 
Somewhere on this island, there exits the greatest predator that ever lived. And the second greatest predator must take him down.
But why?
You remember that guy, about twenty years ago, I forget his name, but he climbed Everest without any oxygen, came down almost dead. And they asked him, "why did you go up there to die?" And he said "I didn't. I went up there to live."
It's called selftesting. But in your case, it sounds more like selfdestruction. A uniquely human characteristic. In fact, human beings destroy things so well that I sometimes think that's our function. Maybe every few sons, some animal comes along that kills off the rest of the world, clears the decks, and lets evolution proceed to his next phase. Maybe death and destruction are our job, maybe we're supposed to destroy ourselves and every other living thing that
How many rounds did you find for that weapon?
Four, counting the one in the chamber.
Don't let it out of your hands again. Can the kid walk?
You gentlemen feel you have to do this now?
Now's the perfect time. The animal just fed, so it won't stalk us for food. Predators don't hurt when they're not hungry.
She's gutty.
She's nuts.
No way.
Oh, my God.
Do you see any family resemblance here?
You can't stay, Kelly, that's it. It's too dangerous.
Then this is our chance.
Our chance to do what?
I don't know these guys, but I know 'em. I've seen 'em on Japanese whalers, French barges trying to dump barrels of nuclear waste in the North Atlantic. They're all the same. They spray us with water cannon when we try to stop 'em, sink our boats, and then call us crazy.
There' no reason for name calling.
Dr. Juttson, please take Kelly back to camp right away. Leave the other car for us and we'll meet you there in an hour or so.
?!
It has a broken leg!
So do it a favor and put it out of its misery!
No! Get in the car before they hear us!
What do they want?!
What do you think they want?!
No.
No way.
Lava?
No.
What are they?
I don't know.
Come on!
Where's Kelly?
She's with Sarah!
We can't stay in here!
We're sure as hell not going back out there"
This is singlewall construction! It's just a shack!
It'll hold!
For sixty seconds, maybe! Look at this! You could
Head for the roof!
I have to find Kelly!
I think she's with Sarah!
DAMN IT, BE SURE!!
Something's wrong.
Look! Sarah!
Trespassing, sabotage  you could go to jail just for being here, did you know that?
Don't start a legal argument with me, this island isn't your property, and neither are these animals!
Their what?
Oh, God.
What?
Don't ask me. The guy's completely out to lunch.
You know how to work a radio, don't you?
You're going too?
I lost everything I came after on this trip, but one Trex in one theme park could singlehandedly bail InGen out of Chapter 11.
So, you two were just, uh, telling old campfire stories, were you?
Do me a favor. Don't pretend for a second that you and I don't know the truth. You can convince Time magazine and the Skeptical Inquirer of whatever you want, but I was there.
You signed a nondisclosure agreement before you went to the island that expressly forbade you from discussing anything you saw. You violated that agreement.
You cost me my livelihood. That on which I relied to support my children.
If your university felt you were causing it embarrassment by selling wild stories to Hard Copy, I hardly see how I am to
I didn't tell anything, I told the truth.
You version of it.
There are no versions of the truth! This isn't a corporate maneuver, it's my life.
We made a generous compensatory offer for your injuries.
It was a payoff and an insult. InGen never
InGen is my livelihood, Dr. Malcolm, and I will jealously defend its interests. People will know what I want them to know when I want them to know it.
What's he got in there?
Piss.
Cancel that, Dieter.
What? Why?
Carnivores hunt near stream beds. Do you want to set up base camp or an allyoucaneat people bar?
You heard his, Dieter. Find a new spot. And remember, we're after herbivores only  no unnecessary risks.
Peter, if you want me to run your little camping trip, there are two conditions. First  I'm in charge, and when I'm not around, Dieter is. Your job is to sign the checks, tell us we're doing a good job, and open your case of scotch when we have a good day. Second condition  my fee. You can keep it. All I want in exchange for my services is the right to hunt one of the tyrannosaurs. A male. Buck only. Why and how are my business. If you don't like either of those conditions, you're on your own. Go ahead and set up your camp right here, or in a swamp, or in the middle of a rex nest, for all I care. But I've been on too many safaris with rich dentists to listen to any more suicidal ideas. Okay?
Okay.
Good lad.
Where do you think you're going?!
To collect my fee.
What kind of gun is that?
My father's .600 Nitro Express. Made in 1904. Karimojo Bell gave it to him after he took down his last elephant. 8700 foot pound striking force.
How close do you have to be?
Forty yards. Less, maybe. I assume it'll take a slug in the brain case to bring him down.
Why not just use a scope and a poison dart and snipe him from a hill?
You rally think this'll draw the parent?
I once saw a bull elephant die charging a jeep. All the jeep had done was startle the bull's calves. I saw a lioness carry wounded prey four and a half miles, all the way back to its den, just to teach its cubs how to finish off a kill.
Killing lessons? Heartwarming.
Rex won't be any different. It'll come.
You're kidding yourself. An adult Trex cares about one thing  filling its own belly. It acts the way people wish they could, that's why everyone's fascinated by it. If people had the chance to see one dinosaur and one only, ninetynine percent would 
What?
I hadn't planned on bringing carnivores back because of the liability risk, but I only thought of adults, it never occurred to me  You are a billion dollar idea, my little f
Had to. To keep him still for the trip.
You've broken its leg!
We've got to transport it seven thousand miles. Would you prefer it bit off the leg of a crew member?
What in Christ's name is going on?!
Isn't it obvious?
What is?
The velociraptors.
What is that?
Piss.
Where's the power and radio setup?
Operations building. Far end of the street.
The radio rig is inside. It runs directly from the geothermal generator, so power shouldn't be a problem.
Good.
Do you think the rex might have the infant with it?
Possible.
We took to the rock.
Why?
It's... behind... us.
It's just fed. It won't attack unless it's threatened. Don't move.
If I don't move, I can't shoot it.
Let it go, Peter. The animal won.
Hi, Dad.
Kelly! What are you doing here?
Okay, Karen is expecting you in half an hour. You only have to stay with her one night, she'll put you on a bus in the morning and your mother will be at the station when you get there.
I don't even know this woman.
Well, I do, and she's fantastic. She'll take you to the museum, maybe to a movie if you play your cards right. You're going to have a fantastic time.
Stop saying fantastic. Where are you going?
I can't tell you. But I'll be back within a week.
My vacation is over in a week.
I'll make it up to you this summer. I promise.
I'm your daughter all the time, you know. Not just when it's convenient.
Very hurtful. Your mother tell you to say that?
No, Dad. I have thoughts of my own once in a while.
Is that kid still bothering you?
Which one?
You know, at the bus stop. With the hair?
That was about a year ago.
Well, is he?
No. Richard talked to his parents.
That Richard.
I could come with you.
Out of the question. You'd miss the gymnastics trials. You've been training for that for a year.
I don't care about the trials, I want to be with you. I could be your research assistant, like I was in Austin.
This is nothing like Austin. Forget about it.
You like to have kids, you just don't want to be with them, do you?
How could you possibly?
Because you said so. Maybe nobody else believed you, but I always did.
"InGen." What's InGen?
Where does it say that?
On the side of that one truck.
What are you guys gonna do?
Exactly what John Hammond wanted us to do.
Are you all right?! Anything broken?
I'm fine, I'm fine, I was scared, I thought you, are you okay?!
I'm fine... I'm fine...
Dad!
Come on!
That was a pair bond! A family group, even, long after that infant was nestbound!
I want to see the nesting ground!
The empty shells are crushed and trampled. The young stay in the birth environment, that's conclusive!
Not without a shot of the nest.
Ian, you're not insane! I'm so glad!
Dr. Malcolm  the world  owes you an apology.
And let's forget about the high hide. We can't do this kind of work up in a tower, we need to be out in the field, as close to the animals as possible.
I'm not surprised stegosaur lived in a family group, but there's never been anything in the fossil record to prove the carnivores did.
Why wouldn't they? Look at hyenas, jackals, nearly all species of predator birds 
That doesn't say a thing about Trex, they could have been rogues. Robert Burke certainly thinks they were.
We've got to see one to find out. Is there any 
Oh 
 my 
Do you have chromium tapes? The others fog in high
humidity, I know. Highest lead density on the market.
InGen is a genetics corporation, isn't it?
Is that who we're really working for?! Gene splicers?!
But he's the head of InGen!
You gotta be kidding. You dragged me out of Greenpeace to be a corporate stooge? You couldn't get anybody else?
Are you looking for a problem?
Everyone, keep your voices down!
Resentful.
When you have a lot of time to think, it's funny who you remember. It's the people who challenged you. It is the quality of our opponents that gives our accomplishments meaning. I never told you how sorry I was about what happened after we returned.
I didn't know you  weren't well.
It's the lawyers. The lawyers are finally killing me.
They do have motives. Why did you want to see me? Your message said it was urgent.
You were right  and I was wrong. There! Did you ever think you'd hear me say that? Spectacularly wrong. Instead of observing those animals, I tried to control them. I squandered an opportunity and we still know next to nothing about their lives. Not their lives as man would have them, behind electric fences, but in the wild. Behavior in their natural habitat, the impossible dream of any paleontologist. I could have had it, but I let it slip away. Thank God for Site B.
What?
Well? Didn't it all seem a trifle compact to you?
What are you talking about?
The hatchery, in particular? You know my initial yields had to be low, far less than one percent, that's a thousand embryos for every single live birth. Genetic engineering on that scale implies a giant operation, not the spotless little laboratory I showed you.
I don't believe you.
Isla Nublar was just a showroom, Ian, something for the tourists, Site B was the factory floor. We built it first, on Isla Sorna, eightsome miles from Nublar.
No, no, no, no, no, no . . .
After the accident at the park, a hurricane wiped out our facility on Site B. We had to evacuate and leave the animals to fend for themselves. And they did. For four years I've fought to keep them safe from human meddling, now I want you to go there and document them.
Are you out of your mind? I still have nightmares, my reputation's a joke, my leg is shot  you think I need more of that?
It would be the most extraordinary living fossil record the world has ever seen.
So what?
I've been putting this together for over a year. I have personal suggestions for your entire team, phone numbers, contact people. They won't believe you about what they're going to see, so don't bother trying to convince them. Just use my checkbook to get them there. I'll fund your expedition through my personal accounts, as such money and equipment as you need, but only if you leave immediately. If we hesitate, all will be lost.
John . . .
You'll need an animal behaviorist, someone with unimpeachable credentials. I believe you already know Sarah Harding. She's got theories about parenting and nurturing among hunter/scavengers I bet she'd be dying to prove on a scale like this. If you convince her to go, it'll be a major coup. When she publishes, the scientific community must take it seriously.
I'm not going, John.
Ian, you are my last chance to give something of real value to the world. I can't walk so far and leave no footprints; die and leave nothing with my name on it. I will not be known only for my failures. And you will not allow yourself to go down in history as a lunatic. You're too smart. You'e too proud. Dr. Malcolm. Please. This is a chance at redemption. For both of us. There's no time to equivocate, we must seize it now, before 
Any damage?
Minimal.
"Minimal" is too much. It has to be light, it has to be strong 
Light and strong, light and strong, sure, why not, it's only impossible. God save me from academics.
You are an academic.
Former academic. Now I actually make things. I don't just talk.
You think I'm all talk, Eddie?
It doesn't matter what I think.
Is there anything we've forgotten? Anything at all?
Is there an antidote?
Like if you shoot yourself in the foot? Wouldn't matter. You'd be dead before you realized you'd accidentally pulled the trigger.
Why didn't you tell us about these guys, Ian?!
Because I didn't know! I don't have the faintest idea what they're doing here.
How did you know?
That cheap aftershave I send you every Christmas, you actually wear it. I'm touched. Sit down, sit down, what brings you to Mombassa?
You. Tell me, Roland, when was the last time you answered your phone?
Last time I plugged it in, I suppose. Why?
I got a call from a gentleman who's going to Costa Rica, or thereabouts. If he's to be believed, it's a most, uh, unique expedition. And very wellfunded.
Well, I'm a very wellfunded old son of a bitch. You go.
But alone? We always had great success together, you and I.
Just a little bit too much, I think.
How do you mean?
A true hunter doesn't mind if the animal wins. If it escapes. But there weren't enough escapes from you and me, Ajay. I've decided to spend a bit less time in the company of death. Maybe I just feel too close to it my
Sorry. We were saying?
You broke that idiot's jaw for no reason other than your boredom. Tell the truth, Roland. Aren't you even interested in knowing this expedition's quarry?
Ajay. Go on up to my ranch, take a look around the trophy room, and tell me what kind of quarry you think could possibly be of any interest to me.
It matches the pictures.
It certainly does.
Make a blind here? Wait for the buck to return?
If the nest is upwind, so are we. When he comes back, he'll know we're here before we have a chance. The truck 
You hear something?
No. I feel something.
What can I do for you, Mr. Kirby?
Well sir, I am a great admirer of yours, and I have an extremely interesting proposition to discuss. Would you let my wife and I take you to have dinner tonight? Our treat.
You know, I've been traveling and I'm very tired. Maybe some other time.
I guarantee it'll be worth your while.
Hmmm.
Now, for our wedding anniversary this year we wanted to do something really special, something...
That's a very nice offer, Mr. Kirby, but I'm afraid I'm much to busy. If you like I can refer you to a number of highly qualified...
No, no, see Dr. Grant, you're the best. You've seen these animals in the flesh. No one else has come close to you.
I'm flattered, but I've taken this little adventure tour. And with the air restrictions they've imposed after the incident in San Diego, you cant fly low enough to see anything of interest.
That's hard to believe.
Let's just say that through my business  imports/exports, emerging markets  I've made some friends in high places. In this case, the Costa Rican government.
Dr. Grant if you'd just sit tight, we'll explain this all in a jiffy.
This plane can not land!
What the hell is going on? What are they doing?
Establishing a perimeter. Making it safe. These guys are really good. One of them was a Green...
Mr. Kirby, trust me, on this island, there is no such thing as safe. We have to get back in this plane...
We needed somebody who knew the lay of the land. Somebody who'd been to this island before.
I have never been on this island!
Sure you have. You wrote that book...
No, I'm sorry, but no. We'll savage what we can from the plane. Then we head for the coast. There may be a boat left, something to get us off this island.
Dr. Grant, we're not leaving without our son.
You can stick with us, or you can go and look for him. Either way you're probably not getting out of here alive.
There is no Kirby Enterprises, is there?
There is. I own a place called Kirby Paint and Title Plus. We're out in the Westgate Shopping Center in Enid, Oklahoma. The "plus" is for bathroom fixtures, fireplaces accessories, patio furniture. Stuff like that.
Well that's good.
But you never came across just one.
Amanda!
Back out! Move!
Billy!
It's no use, Dr. Grant. No use.
Whatever you do, don't call the U.S. Embassy. They won't do a God Damn thing.
Well, we don't exactly have a Costa Rican phone book here, so it will have to be somebody we know in the states. Someone we can absolutely count on to send help.
Stan.
Eric, your parents are both here.
In Costa Rica?
On the island.
They'll never make it. I mean, they can't manage when the cable goes out.
You'd be surprised what people can do when they have too.
You're Alan Grant, aren't you? I read both of your books.
Which one do you prefer?
The first one. Before you where on the island. You liked dinosaurs back then.
Back then, they hadn't tried to eat me.
When InGen cleared out, they left a lot of stuff behind.
Any weapons, radios?
Found this, but the battery's dead.
It's a wonder you aren't. I'm amazed, Eric. I barely lasted 30 hours. You lasted eight weeks.
Is that all it's been? I thought it was longer.
The important thing is we both made it. That's something we have in common.
Did you read Malcolm's book?
Yeah.
What did you think?
I dunno. I mean, it was kind of preachy. Chaosthis, chaosthat. And like, to me, the guy seemed kind of high on himself.
Know what this is?
A raptor claw. I use to have one. A fossil.
Mine's new.
How much of this island have you explored?
I stayed pretty close to the compound, Figured if anyone came to look for me, that's where they'd start.
We need to head for the coast.
Are you sure?
Why?
Closer you get to the water, the bigger things get.
We climb down to the barge and follow the river out to the ocean. With any luck, the Costa Rican coast guard will pick us up.
Then we go home?
Do you have any kids?
No. Although I've studied them in the wild.
I have a theory that there's two kinds of boys. Those who want to be astronomers and those who want to be astronauts.
I want to be an astronaut.
See, I was the opposite. I never understood why anyone would want to go into space. It's so dangerous. You do one thing wrong and you're dead. The astronomer  or the paleontologist  get to study these amazing things from a place of complete safety. And truthfully, everything you really need to learn, you can learn it from the ground.
But then you never get to go in space.
Exactly. The difference between imagining how things might be and seeing how they really are. To be able to touch them. That's what Billy wanted to do.
Bonitas.
Something must've scared them.
The lady you called, how do you know she can help us?
She's the one person I could always count on. And she's saved me more times than she realizes. I owe her everything.
It's strikes me now I never told her that.
You should.
You're right.
Eric, do you know what happened to the boat? that brought you here? Why did it crash?
No. I couldn't see.
Do me a favor. Go back to your parents for a minute, would you? They look worried.
We're safe!
No we're not.
What do you think is going to happen with the dinosaurs?
The population will Stabilize eventually. They'll adapt to fit different roles.
Hmm?
He's three. Why don't you wait till he's a little older?
He used to know me.
Sorry, Alan it's been six years.
So, Mark's working at the State Department now.
Really? What do you do there?
Anything good?
Raptors, mostly.
My favorite.
You remember the sounds they made?
I try not to.
We've done cranial scans, and raptors actually had a quite sophisticated resonating chamber. I have a theory that their ability to vocalize is the key to their social intelligence. The way they can work together as a team.
You think they could talk to each other?
To a degree we never imagined.
Good luck with the fund raising.
It was never easy, but before Jurassic Park, you could find money. Somewhere. Now fossils are out. Everyone wants to see a real live dinosaur.
Times change Alan. But you're the still the best. I mean that.
The last of my breed.
I'd better get going.
Let me know if I can help, Alan. Youre bad about asking for help, but please ask me. Anything, anytime.
Okay. Goodbye, Ellie.
Goodbye, Alan.
When I met you, I thought that one day millions of years ago, all the dinosaurs became extinct. Wiped out. But you told me otherwise. When conditions changed, dinosaurs changed. They became other things. They evolved.
A wellaccepted theory.
Alan don't be afraid to evolve.
How was your trip? Profitable?
We'll be broke in four weeks.
Three weeks. I had to rent some equipment.
You rented an automated litter box.
It's a rapid prototyper. I feed in the scan data from the raptor skull, than the computer breaks it into thousands of slices which this thing prints, one layer on top of the other. It's the future of paleontology.
Not if it can't dig.
Absolutely not.
They're here.
What?
Even with what I pay you, you could get a better bag.
No way. This is lucky. Couple years ago some buddies and I went hang gliding off these cliffs in New Zealand. Updraft sent me right into the side. BOOM!
That does sound lucky.
It was this strap alone that saved my life. Got caught on a rock as I was falling.
ReverseDarwinism. Survival of the most idiotic.
Listen Alan, I really appreciate you bringing me along.
The bones will be there when we get back. That's the nice thing about them. They never run away. And besides, you got me into this. I don't intend to be alone with these people.
I'm so use to seeing bones. It's weird to see skin.
Mr. and Mrs. Kirby! If you look out the right you can see...
Is it a rex?
I don't think so.
How would you classify it?
Obviously a superpredator. Suchimimus. that snout.
They never got that big.
Baryonyx?
Not with that sail. Spinosaurus Aegypticus.
I don't remember that on InGen's list.
That's because it wasn't on their list. Who knows what else they were up to?
It looks intact.
We should take it with us to signal any planes.
We could cowrite a paper.
Ah yes, the first rule of academics. Publish or perish.
ALAN!
KEEP GOING!
We need to keep moving.
Alan, I want to tell you that I'm so sorry about the...
Billy, I can't talk to you now.
You have to believe me. I did it with the best intentions.
Some of the worst things imaginable have been done with the best intentions. You rushed in with no thought to the consequences, to yourself or anyone else. You're no better than the people who built this place.
I CAN GET HIM!
NO!
I KNOW THE CONSEQUENCES!
That was Isla Nublar. This is Isla Sorna. The second island.
I didn't know, there were two islands.
So Mr. Kirby, tell me, when you climbed K2, did you base camp at 25 or 30,000 feet?
Thirtythousand, I think. Closer to the top.
About a thousand feet above it, actually. Most mountainclimbers remember how tall that mountains were.
They couldnt climb up, so they were trying to get us to come down.
They set a trap They actually set a trap.
I dont know.
I thought you were an expert.
Dr. Grant was.
He's probably has a better chance by the coast as it is. Figures that all the big dinosaurs would live in the center of the island. Right?
Sure.
Eric!
It won't hold!
PAUL!
DAD!
Where's Dad?
Just hold on.
We have to keep looking for Dad. We have to.
I know. I know. I want to look for him too.
then we should...
Let me tell you a few things about you Dad, okay? He's very very very clever, very very brave, and he loves you ever very much.
He loves you too.
Okay. He loves us very very much. And I know that right now more than anything, your Dad would want to know that we're safe. Okay?
You see, that's just the thing. Paul and I have special permission to fly low.
How low?
He's with a man named Ben Hildebrand.
Who's that?
I thought we weren't suppose to yell.
Here!
He's right. A predator wouldn't leave a kill wounded.
He's not a kill, he's still alive.
We need to stick to the plan. Head for the coast.
What about Eric and Dr. Grant?
Going to the coast was Alan's idea. If he's alive, thats where he's headed.
What about Eric?
You had the phone the whole time?
Where is it?
First off let me say as a dinosaur enthusiasts, Amanda and I have admired your work for years.
It is truly, whats the word? Inspiring.
Amanda and I, well, we just love the outdoors. Heck we've been on pretty much any adventure tour they can come up with: Galapagos, K2, the Nile...
We even have two seats reserved aboard the first commercial moon flight.
...onceinalifetime.
We've arranged for a private airplane to take us flying over Isla Sorna. And we want you to be our guide.
Well, I'm no aviation specialist. But I do know it's hell of a lot lower than anyone else.
From what I understand, it's pretty much whatever we want.
Amanda, Honey! Dr. Grant says it's a bad idea!
What?
He says it's a bad idea!
What's a bad idea?
We can't just...
Don't worry, honey. We'll circle around and come back.
Her new boyfriend.
A friend. We were vacationing. Eric wanted to see the island and the dinosaurs, so Ben found a guy who would take them parasailing. They never came back.
We called everyone, did everything we could. Because of all the controversy over this island, no one will step in. Costa Rica says it's a nofly zone, it's their own damn fault. Guys at the U.S Embassy  our U.S. Embassy  said we should "accept the inevitable." You believe that?
Sorry.
Nothing you haven't seen before.
How much weight have you lost?
Twenty, twentyfire pounds. I've been swimming at the Y.
You hate to swim.
People change.
You look good.
So do you.
Stop that. Dr. Grant says this is dangerous territory.
Well we should split up or something. We can cover twice the area.
No, Dr. Grant says...
Dr. Grant says this, Dr. Grant says that...
Well what's the use of hiring an expert if your not going to listen to him?
Because "Dr. Grant" isn't looking for Eric. Dr. Grant is looking for the coast.
Fine...and when the Tricyclatops comes after you, don't come crying to me.
Oh, don't worry about that.
What?
Nothing.
What did you say?
Nothing.
What did you say!
Just drop it Paul!
Young adult.
Eric...
That's him. Thats Eric!
I filmed this the morning they left.
I'm sorry Amanda. I am. And I'm sorry for the things I said about him.
No, it's...
I know you liked Ben. I had no right to...
Its not about him. It's Eric. He's alone out here somewhere. Our baby is all alone.
Eric! Are you here?
Eric!
Udesky.
He's this way.
It's not safe.
We have to help him.
We can't just stop looking. Eric and Dr. Grant are out there somewhere.
I want to find them too, but we can't do a bit of good right now. For every scary thing we saw in the daylight, I'll bet there ten times more of 'em at night. Am I right?
Well what?
Well damn it. I don't speak ill of the dead. What I'm trying to say is, its was just a crazy accident. The exact same thing could have happened if he was with me. You can't go beating yourself up about it.
This wouldn't happen if he was with you. I mean, you drive five miles below the speed limit. I totaled three cars in fives years.
That one time was just the bumper.
He would have been, safe. Completely, entirely, suffocatingly safe. I would have him to see more of the world than Enid, Oklahoma. I wanted to see more of the world than Enid, Oklahoma. And so yes, it's my fault that this happened. I'm sorry that you have to be here.
I don't know. I don't have it with me.
When did you have it last?
I don't remember
Think.
What?...WHAT!?
I loaned it to Nash. He must have had it on him when he...
Sweetheart, you're okay. You're okay. You're okay.
Never had a doubt. Never did. Us Kirby men, we stick around, huh?
Eric, its okay. You'll be right behind me.
We're not going anywhere, I promise.
Paul! Where is he? Can you see him?
I'm trying! That thing took him down this way!
My own kid was right in front of me and I didn't do a damn thing.
You couldn't have made that jump.
I should have tried. It should have been me on that beach back there, not Billy.
How would you have helped Eric? He needs you, Paul. He needs us.
He could have died.
But he didn't. And neither did you. And I'm glad about that.
We should try fishing again.
You mean it?
I do. It's worth another shot. And who knows? Things might turn out differently.
Either that, or the government will firebomb it back to the Stone Age.
I would completely support that.
ERRRIIIC!
And tell your wife to stop making so much noise! We're food to these damn animals.
Still, you have survived the dinosaurs before. You saved those kids.
A few of us survived. A lot more died. And we were better prepared and better armed. How many days have they been missing?
After what you've seen today, you really think your son could be alive?
He's smart, Dr. Grant. And he knows so much about dinosaurs.
Eric!
Quiet!
This is how you make dinosaurs?
This is how you play God.
Do you think it goes all the way across?
One way to find out.
Oh, my God.
What is it?
A bird cage.
Now go kiss your daddy, quick.
That's why they cheer, you know. The white man sending the black man into battle...
He's gonna have nothing left for next season. They're letting him kill himself.
Can you be quiet?
What'd I say?
He should have kept his head tucked down.
Shut up!!!
I'm not putting him down, I just have a commitment to the truth.
Onetwothree, swing.
Thanks. May I offer you both a ride?
Hey, man, you know they have big balloons built into cars?
No.
They do, my brother.
I'm not your brother!
Hi.
Hi Ray.
And then my dad died and my mom took me to the zoo and I love the zoo. Do you hate the zoo or do you love the zoo?
Wait. I want to tell you more about my dad.
Let's go the zoo.
Okay. I've been hogging it. You're right. _ 76.
Let's go right now. Let's go to the zoo.
Aw, the fucking thing... I mean, the zoo is closed.
You said "fuck".
Yeah I know. I did.
I won't tell.
We'll go to the zoo sometime. Okay? I think I might have some time on my hands.
I don't see any.
Funny.
Funny... I better go to bed.
What's going on, Jerry?
A lot. We got a big fax today... we need this commission, buddy.
Show me the animal, Jerry!
Right up ahead, buddy 
 I give you my favorite animal in the zoo. Are you ready for the weirdness, the strange perfection and truth of...
I'm scared. What is it?
It's in a cage. Do not be scared of...
Dooler, you know Bob Sugar.
The best commercial director in the business. I hail you.
Cronin's okay for lunch?
Marcee  this is one of our agents. This is Bob Sugar, who needs to learn to knock.
Pleasure.
Gimme a second here... Tidwell... Arizona contract... new glass cabinet...
You okay?
I'm fine. What's up?
I came here to let you go. _ 27.
Pardon me?
Came here to fire you, Jerry.
Aw shit...the crowded restaurant... so there's no scene...
I know. It sucks. I suck.
You...
You did this to yourself. You said "fewer clients." You put it all on paper. Scully was very upset. Heart attacks make some people sweeter, but not him. You did this to yourself 
... dick?
Dick.
Give me a little credit for doing this facetoface! What I went through knowing I was going to do this to my mentor! Can you get past yourself for a second?
You'll lose.
You wanted smaller.
I'm over it. Now I want all my clients and yours too.
Jerry 
 and I'll get 'em.
You'll always be my hero, Jerry. Always always always. We're bringing other elements in, we're focusing on endorsements  it's not about handholding anymore. We're no longer babysitters 
SMI represents all three quarterbacks on your team, where's their loyalty going to be? You stay with me, I'd fight for YOU alone. You'd be my only client on that team...
I've got the clients. I've got the juice.
Marcee. How's my favorite player's wife?
Jerry, Rod is very very upset. Tyson, no!
How can I make your life better?
I know you say to take the Arizona offer, but my husband needs more recognition. _ 25.
You gonna get that 
Not a chance.
Marcee, things are changing around here. You and Rod will have my total personal attention.
Damn right, and you can start by taking Rod's poster and putting it where people can see it!
Damn right.
I'll go back to them.
And say what? "Please remove your dick from my ass?!"
Okay, we don't take this emotionally. We roll with this problem.
What are you talking about  "don't get emotional." If you ask me, you haven't gotten emotional ENOUGH about this man. _ 98.
Marcee 
What DO you stand for???
I'm sorry what I said back there.
Don't be silly.
My husband believes in you. We're gonna make it. Bye bye Dorothy.
He took a shot. He's unconscious.
I'm freakin out. Oh God I'm 
Keep the phone open. I'll call back. Stay calm. He's got some good doctors out there.
"Stay calm?" I'm freakin...
Alright, I'm freaking too. But they need you to stay calm. I'll call back. _ 124.
I have to ask.
What 
Where'd you find the perfect white shirt?
You're with the sports people on the plane, right?
Jerry Maguire. SMI.
Bobbi Fallon. BPI. I'm producing the Coke commercials for the playoffs.
Well. Good luck with that 
And I can't say his name without laughing I want to eat him up. I want to say goodbye to every bad thought I ever had about relationships. I mean, I crave this guy... and yet... why... why did I have that affair this weekend? Does that mean I'm not in love with my boyfriend?
I think you'll know when you see him at the gate.
It's the death rattle of my singlehood, right? Because I finally see the white picket fence looming and I love it/hate it/love it/hate it/ love it... you're right, I'll know when I see him. Why is it so easy to talk with you?! Tell me about your fiancee.
I uh... don't think we're quite at your pitch yet.
Tell me, and then you can sleep.
She's an NFL publicist... amazing sense of style... former athlete... volleyball... world class... really knows how to live every moment of her life, which is why I should take a nap now...
Oh, tell the story.
so our first date, she told me about her favorite place in the world, the seven pools of Hana on the island of Maui...
Gorgeous.
A yearandahalf later, we were both in Hawaii for the Pro Bowl. Now I've always hit a wall at 18 months. Every serious girlfriend lasts 18 months. It's like ka boom. The curse of 18 months.
That's when you need to cement, and define define define.
Exactly. And the world does not need another 35 yearold bachelor. I knew I wanted to propose, so I took her there.
To the pools?
To the pools. Now she's Miss Rock Climber, and I'm more the NonRock Climber, but we're hiking up through the pools and there's a fine mist in the air, and I have the ring in my pocket, and I'm a little nervous, I'm lagging behind, and she says to me, get this  "Hurry up, klutz."
Oh no  _ 14.
Well, it bothered me somewhat. And I got quiet. And now she's quiet and we're both pouting a little, you know. And I decide I'm not going to propose. The mood is not right. Why be impulsive? Now at this point I know she knows that I was going to propose and didn't. And she knows I know. So the entire sixty mile ride back to the airport, we don't speak. And we're both good at that. We fly to Honolulu in silence. We check into the Pro Bowl hotel 
How sad 
But wait...
Which they do. And we're standing there. All the football guys are in the lobby, watching, there's even an ESPN crew. So I turn to her and sort of grandly say, "Well, this is me, Klutz, asking you, Goddess of Rock Climbing, to marry me." And I took out the ring, and I don't much like big scenes, but she said "yes" right there in the lobby and some of the toughest men in football wept like babies. We're getting married in February.
Jerry. You two will be together forever.
Alright, we're just getting started on my list of things you need to know. Take notes if you want to.
Okay.
Good, 'cause see, I am a valuable commodity. I go across the middle. I see the ball and a dude coming right at me, wanting to kill me, I tell my brain "get killed, catch the ball." That's New York Steak, baby. Rare. And yet, nobody's giving me LOVE. Nobody's giving me PROPS. Nobody. I went to Arizona State, I'm from Arizona, I break Arizona records, I'm a Sun Devil, man!!!
Now you want Arizona dollars.
Exactly. And I'm sitting here with an ant problem, look! And my brother Tee Pee's room is flooded with water. Say hello to Jerry Maguire 
 now to recap, I want to stay in Arizona, I want my new contract, I like you, you're nice to my wife, I will stay with you, that's what I'm doing for you, but here's what you're gonna do for me. You listening?
Mmm. Hmm.
It's a very personal, very important thing. It's a family motto. So I want to share it with you. You ready?
Yes.
Here it is. "Show me the money." Show. Me. The. Money. _ 36.
I got it.
Now doesn't that just make you feel good to say it? Say it with me.
Show. Me. The. Money.
Congratulations. You're still my agent.
At last I find you.
Why the fuck am I here? I feel like I'm five years late for the Prom.
I came all the way here for that? To walk the lobby?
Yeah. And it might have even worked too.
Let's do it again.
You believe they're shooting a Nike ad down there? Did I ever tell you my Nike story?
I gotta get back to Cushman.
Okay, I understand. I'll boil it down for ya. Fuck Nike. All they do is ignore me...
You're loving me now, aren't ya?
I'm not about love  I'm about "showing you the money."
Good. I was just testing ya. But just you saying that? Makes me love ya.
Get some sleep. See you tomorrow.
Sure you don't want to go out and find some karoake? I'm a very good singer, man 
Call me tomorrow.
I might call you later!
You love me now, don't you?
Very much.
Rod 
You feel bad you tested positive? Quit doing blow! You feel bad about your baby girl? Why did you leave the mother?
What are you doing with me, Rod?
Huh?
Don't you even see  I'm finished. I'm fucked. Twentyfour hours ago, I was hot. Now... I'm a cautionary tale!
See this jacket I'm wearing? You like it? I don't really need it, because I'm CLOAKED IN FAILURE. I lost the number one draft pick the night before the draft. They will teach my story to other agents on "do not do this" day in agent school. Why? Let's recap. Because a hockey player's kid made me feel like a superficial jerk, I had two slices of bad pizza, went to bed, grew a conscience and wrote a 25page Manifesto of Doom!
Well, boofuckinghoo.
The least you could do is nod and act sympathetic 
No.
It's a quality that might come in handy for a commercial sometime. _ 69.
You are not allowed to act this way.
Why not?
Man, I got a shelf life of ten years, tops! My next contract's gotta bring me the dollars that'11 last me and mine a very long time. I'm out of this sport in five years. What's my family gonna live on? What you get me. So I don't want to hear about ya shit, your "nya nya nya."
Another drink please.
Anybody else would have left you by now, but I'm sticking with you. I said I would. And if I got to ride your ass like Zorro, you're gonna show me the money.
Oh my God.
Did you tell him about the "ten million for four years?"
Uh, not today, but 
John Taylor. J.J. Stokes. Andre Rison. I SMOKE all these fools, and yet they're making the big sweet dollars. They're making the money, and I got an agent that ain't even put the number on the table.
I understand your anxiety.
Maybe you don't. Because it's not just the money I deserve. It's not just the "coin." It's the...
 the kwan.
That's your word?
Yeah, man, it means love, respect, community... and the dollars too. The package. The kwan.
But how did you get "kwan?" _ 82.
I got there from "coin," dude. Coin, coin... kwaaaan.
Great word. Towel?
No, I airdry.
Rod, I say this with great respect, but those players you mentioned are marquee players and 
Is that your porty or mine?
You.
You're telling me to dance.
No, I'm saying to be 
"Love me love me love me... put me on t.v." That's the iconography of rascism, man!
Rod, I'm not a rascist. I'm telling you to be the best version of you, to get back to the guy who first started playing this game. Way back when you were a kid. It wasn't just about the money, was it?
Do your job, man, don't tell me to dance.
Fine.
What's wrong.
Forget it. Forget it.
No tell me. _ 84.
I'm out here for you! You don't know what it's like to be me out here for you. It is an upatdawn prideswallowing seige that I will never fully tell you about! Okay?! Help me help you help me help you.
You're hanging by a very thin thread, dude. And I dig that about you.
If you get injured, you get nothing.
Won't happen. I'm strong in my mind.
It's a risk.
I'll get you some quick work 
Good deal, man.
Dude, know your art form. If you put the camera down here, looking up, I look more powerful. There's no need for a camel... you got ME.
Rod, get on the camel.
Can I ask you a question totally unrelated to your career?
Oh, we gonna be friends now?
What do you know about dating a single mother?
Oh I know plenty. I was raised by a single mother.
Tell me, because it's been a month, and she's about to take another job in San Diego.
First, single mothers don't "date." They have been to the circus, you know what I'm saying? They have been to the puppet show and they have seen the strings. You love her?
How do I know?
You know when you know. It makes you shivver, it eats at your insides. You know?
No, I don't know.
Then you gotta have The Talk.
But I sure don't like that she's leaving.
Well, that ain't fair to her. A single mother, that's a sacred thing, man. _ 103.
The kid is amazing.
No. A real man does not shoplift the "pooty" from a single mom.
I didn't "shoplift the pooty." We were thrown together and  I mean it's two mutual people who  Alright, I shoplifted the pooty.
Shame on you. SHAME on you.
You never had The Talk, did you?
No.
Well, this was another way to go.
Tidwell moves to a tan in a wheelchair, signs an autograph and moves on. Jerry alongside. The quarterback sucks, man. He's gonna get me killed.
I'm a little worried 
I'm worried too. I'm worried that the only reason I'm here getting my brains blown loose is that you weren't asshole enough to get my ten million three months ago.
We can still take the offer, Rod.
No.
Well, just stay healthy. I will show you the kwan.
Hey, that's my word, okay?
I'm gonna have the game of my life on Monday Night Football, and show all these motherfuckers.
Take care, okay? You're my entire client roster.
Don't I know. Now go home to your wife.
What's that supposed to mean?
Why are you even here, man? You could have told me all this over the phone.
I don't know  how's "dedication" for an answer?
You don't want to go home, do you?
Why are you doing this to me, Rod?
I'm asking you a question 
No, you're 
I'm trying to talk to you. How's your marriage?
Not everyone has what you have.
Then why'd you get married? I'm asking you as a friend.
You're jabbing at me. _ 112.
I'm sorry I asked.
No, I'm going to answer you. You want an answer? I'll give it to you. Loyalty. She was loyal. Everything grew from there.
That's an answer.
Damn right.
For loyalty, you buy a dog. For love, you get married.
Look. I'm happy to entertain you, as always, but I have a question for you. Are we really "friends?"
Why not 
Well, friends can tell each other anything, right? If we have our "friends" hats on 
I think so.
Airight. Here's why you don't have your ten million dollars yet. You are a paycheck player. You play with your head. Not your heart. In your personal life? Heart. But when you get on the field  _ 113.
I don't want to be friends anymore.
Fine.
Beautiful.
We still having dinner in L.A.?
Only 'cause my wife likes your wife!
Jerry! You made it 
Go. Flee.
Thanks for coming.
I missed ya. What can I say?
Matt, I came here because in all honesty your son is just another piece of cattle to SMI. But to me 
We decided to stay with you.
Oh, thank you.
Told myself  if he shows up, we'll stick with him.
You know, I'm not a hugger and yet... I can't let go.
I want him to go number one in the draft, and I want him to play.
It's either going to be Denver or San Diego trading up to take him.
Denver is where he should be.
I'll give it everything.
You know I don't do "contracts." But'cha do have my word, and it's stronger than oak.
What happened to Denver?
Denver got very silent about a day ago. San Diego's got a fever for Cush. This stuff tends to happen the night before a draft. People get crazy. And San Diego, you should know, is crazy to the tune of seven years for thirty. Signing bonus of eight. Million.
Not right now, Jerry.
Do I know everything there is to know here? You fellas aren't talking with Bob Sugar, are you?
Apparently, Denver wanted to deal with him instead of you.
Said who? Sugar?
Hey, I'm learning as I go.
So you empowered Bob Sugar to deal with Denver behind my back?
I'm sorry, I 
I brought Denver to twenty million. Denver deals with me all the time. You listened to Sugar? You let that snake in the door.
Now. Wait. You didn't actually sign with Sugar, did you? Tell me you didn't sign. Because I'm still sort of moved by your "my word is stronger'n oak" thing 
We signed an hour ago. You were in the lobby with the black fella.
No, Roy. I'm not gonna cry.
 well, Rod, your agent passed me a note before the show. He says that your deal memo has been signed by the Arizona Cardinals. Four years for tenpointtwo million dollars. Playing in the state where you grew up.
I... I love everybody, man. I love my wife. My kids. Little Tyson. My new baby Kaydee. My brother Tee Pee. I love my friends, my teammates, who am I leaving out?
It's only a halfhour show, Rod.
Oh yes. Jerry Maguire! My agent! This is a fierce, loving individual, I love this man, he is love, he is about love  my ambassador of kwan.
Ten seconds, Rod.
And I love my fans, of which he is one. Wanna thank them for all my Sundays, and of course my Monday nights too. That about says it...
What about medical?
Of course, medical! _ 42.
You are a single mother. You have given up the right to be frivolous.
If you'd read what he wrote, you would have left with him too.
You know how much those Well Child exams cost 
Of course I know 
Wait. Where is he?
He's in the living room asleep.
He's coming over.
At eleven at night? _ 70.
He just lost his best client. He called from the plane. I invited the guy over.
Dotty  this is not "guy.". This is a "syndrome." It's called Early Midlife, AboutToMarry, Hanging Onto TheBottomRung Dear GodDon'tLetMeBeAlone, I'll CallMyNewly Longsuffering AssistantWithout MedicalFor Company Syndrome. And if, knowing all that, you still allow him to come over, more power to you.
Honey, he's engaged. And for the first time in my professional life, I'm a part of something I believe in.
I heard.
No kidding. I looked over and saw the shadow of two curious shoes in the doorway of the kitchen.
This guy would go home with a gardening tool right now if it showed interest. Wait. Use the frosted glasses.
Thank you.
Look, here's some of that chicken with salsa too, I warmed it up  _ 74.
That's the girl I love.
But you just gotta hear me out on one thing. You're very responsible with Ray and you know it's not right for a little boy to hear some strange man's voice in the house.
As opposed to twenty angry women?
I've got a 24 hour a day reminder of Roger, for the rest of my life. I have had three lovers in four years, all boring, all achingly selfsufficient all friends of yours I might add, and all of them running a distant second to a warm bath. Look at me, Laurel, look at me. I'm the oldest 26 year old in the world! How do I look?
Good.
Thanks.
Forgot your keys 
That's the first time I ever saw him kiss a man, like a dad, wasn't that just... thrilling? I mean, he must have been needing that.
No no. Don't cry at the beginning of the date.
Oh, knock it off! _ 89.
First you gotta tell me something.
No
Because I'm worried that you're putting your faith in this guy who, because of the way things are going, may not have an emotional marble in his head.
Please, if I start talking 
Guys are just different people when they're hanging onto the bottom rung.
Easy, hon, I was just looking for fun details 
Oh, well, why didn't you say so? And oh, I don't know if you're interested in this detail, but I was just about to tell you that I love him. I love him, and I don't care what you think. I love him for the guy he wants to be, and I love him for the guy he almost is. I love him.
No no...
Oh, tell the story.
Can I help?
Oh. Hi. I work in your office. I was on the junket to the conference. I'm 
I know who y6u are. You're Dorothy Boyd. You're in... wait... you're in Accounts. You have the middle cubicle toward the back with that poster of Albert Einstein morphed onto Shaquille 0 Neal's body.
Hmm. Pretty good.
Now what did you lose?
My son... my mind...
Well, thanks.
Well, take care.
And have fun at your bachelor party.
Oh no.
No no. I knew.
Nnnnn. I just killed the surprise.
No, I'm just... anxiously looking past it. I already had my bachelor party. It was called "my twenties." See you later.
I think in this age, optimism like that... it's a revolutionary act.
You think so?
Oh tsht. Yes.
I appreciate that, because some of that stuff... you know, it was two in the morning and...
 the part about "we should embrace what it is still virginal about our enthusiasm" 
Oh no. I'm sure it would just make your day to drive us all the way to Manhattan Beach, taking that left down to little tiny Waterloo street where you have to play chicken with oncoming traffic, and your life flashes before your eyes, but  hey, I've obviously had too much coffee and all  here's my sister Laurel to pick us up. Thanks, though. Bye.
Dorothy. Ray. A pleasure.
Wonder what he said.
My favorite aunt is hearing impaired. He said "you complete me." _ 40.
So I know this is a bad time, but  you will have a medical program, right?
Sure. Yes. Medical, I don't know.
And I guess we didn't talk about money. So, I'll just dive in 
Give me your number. I'll call tomorrow. I'm just a little. I'm a little insane right now. But it's going to be great.
No no, I know 
But I mean really... wonderfully... great.
Absolutely.
That took guts.
Same to you.
Honey  later, okay? Whoop. Wait.
Hello?
Sorry, that's my son and the nanny. I had the calls transferred to my home so I could go over your stuff.
No, that's fine. What calls came in today?
Wait. That's yesterday, from the other office. Today is...
... light.
Shit, it's just so frustrating to not be able to talk to Avery 
Dorothy, let me tell you something, we are back. We are so very very back. I resigned Cush. We're set.
We are?
It's all going to work.
I just got goosebumps.
It's all going to work. We're going to save the world.
Well, I'm happy for you.
Happy for us.
Happy for us... okay. Here's the number. 4044532222.
Thanks.
Call me later, hon.
Okay, have we gone over everything? Back on Tuesday, right?
Yep. Have a good time at school, Ray. Wish me luck.
Hey you.
Hi.
Thanks for inviting me over. Where's the little guy?
He's asleep. Watch out for that lamp.
I'm glad you're home. That "alone" thing is... not my specialty...
Oh my God.
Yeah. That too. I broke up with Avery.
Too bad.
Better now than later. We'll still be friends. I'm dying here.
Jesus, it's a real gash, isn't it?
And just think if I got her the ring she really wanted.
Sorry. Uh, let me see, have a seat. I'll get you some aloe vera for that cut too.
Do you have something to drink?
Sure 
Beer okay?
Yeah, thanks.
Drinks. Food. Plus, I called you a cab.
Good idea. Thank you.
Don't worry about me. I can get jobs 
We will be fine!
 especially one like this.
And I am...
Truth?
Sure.
Me too.
What you wrote inspired me. _ 79.
I'm working with you because of that memo...
Mission... statement...
Well.
Sorry about this hand. You know that feeling  you're not completely embarrassed yet, but you glimpe tomorrow's embarrassment?
Don't worry about it, boss.
Oh shit. You said "boss."
Yeah, I did.
Now I feel like Clarence Thomas.
No. No don't feel like Clarence Thomas.
No, I do. I feel like Clarence Thomas. I'm like... harrassing you... right now.
I may not sue.
Well, good evening.
Good evening.
Dennis Wilburn called from Arizona to say he's faxing in the new Tidwell offer on Thursday morning, and you'll be happy.
Happy. He said "happy?"
Actually he said "glad." _ 85.
Good. Good. Glad is good.
Plus, you could use that commission.
I sunk most of what I had into this condo, which devalued, and 
You don't have to explain.
Look, the other night, I want to apologize.
Yeah, what happened there.
We're two people working together and we can't have an atmosphere.
I'm relieved you said that.
I mean, the other night was... I felt like you understood something I could barely even say, something way down deep in the murk   but we have a company here to think about. I won't ever take advantage of you in that way again.
Oh good.
You walked out on a job for me, and I won't ruin that.
Exactly because I know this is a time when you need to be alone with your thoughts. _ 86.
Wow. That's more than a dress. That's an Audrey Hepburn movie.
Yeah  guess I got revved up at the idea of an evening among adults  no offense buster. You meet Chad the nanny?
Yeah, I did  am I dressed okay? I guess I didn't realize we were...
We'll see you soon, honey. Bye.
Bye you guys. _ 88.
It was laziness1 my whole breakup with Avery. You know that thing you say, "it's nobody's fault." It's one of the great lies, right? Someone is always to blame  if you go for it, go for it like you do a job, work at it 
Maybe love shouldn't be such hard work. I know, but 
Maybe you should call her.
No no no. I just underestimated her... her temper, I guess. Why are we even talking about this?
Yeah. It wasn't like my marriage to Roger was so great, even before  Jerry?
What?
Let's not tell our sad stories.
Well  this would be goodnight.
Good night.
I think you should not come in, or come in depending on how you feel.
Same to you.
No. I have to go in. I live here.
Right. I'll come in.
Okay. Wait here a second. Do we really want to do this?
Oh hell yes.
Oh God.
Easy, easy 
Another time, okay Dorothy?
Fine, I just 
And I appreciate that impulse.
Sure you're okay to drive this?
This rig? Phht. No problem.
So I'll see you this weekend.
What 
Look, just in case this weekend becomes next month and next month becomes... whatever... Don't make a joke of your life. Go back and read what you wrote. You're better than the rest of them, better than the Bob Sugars, and don't forget it.
If I said that, would you stay?
No no. Don't do that. Don't say that if you don't...
Will you marry me?
I was thinking I hope he doesn't get injured. I felt responsible.
Sometimes I can't tell at all, what's going through that head of yours.
And I really don't know your noises yet.
Well, when you wonder, ask me.
Okay... I will...
Why do you love me?
Why do you love me?
It's my fault.
What 
It's not fair to you. This whole 
Tell me  let me help 
I took advantage of you and worst of all, I'm not alone. I did this with a kid. I was just on some ride where I thought I was in 1ove enough for both of us. I did this. And at least I can do something about it now.
Well  I'm not the guy who's going to run. I stick.
I don't need you to "stick."
You want...
I don't know 
...my soul or something. _ 117.
Why fucking not! I deserve it.
Dorothy  what if I'm just not built that way?
I think we made a mistake here.
What if it's true? "Great at friendship bad at intimacy." I mean, come on. It's the theme of my bachelor film 
I know. I watched it. I sort of know it by heart.
I don't like to give up.
Oh please. My need to make the best of things, and your need to be what, "responsible"... if one of us doesn't say something now we might lose ten years being polite about it. Why don't we call this next road trip what it is. A nice long break.
What about Ray?
There's no question you'll be friends. Of course you'll be friends.
So this break... is a breakup.
Come on, Jerry. You know this isn't easy for me. _ 118.
This used to be my specialty. I was good in a living room. Send me in there, I'll do it alone. And now I just... I don't know... but on what was supposed to be the happiest night of my business life, it wasn't complete, wasn't nearly close to being in the same vicinity as complete, because I couldn't share it with you. I couldn't hear your voice, or laugh about it with you. I missed my wife. We live in a cynical world, and we work in a business of tough competitors, so try not to laugh  I love you. You complete me.
Aw, shut up. You had me at hello. _ 130.
You hear those courtesy laughs, Jerry? There is a seething wrongness at the edges of this party.
Oh come on 
This is fuckin Michael Jordan, man! They should be screaming.
You're imagining it.
... this is... uh... too funny...
They ain't laughing, man. Something's wrong.
Look, Rod, just get on the camel!
Bill, Rod, wait 
Airight. Enough. I'm pulling him out of this. This isn't what I had in mind anyway.
Then you shouldn't have begged me to hire him.
Let me think about that. Want something to drink?
I see what you're saying.
Wait. What do you mean?
Cush, Matt  we have a decision to make.
"It's okay to eat fish, 'cause they Don't have any feelings...
Okay. San Diego just came in with a lastminute scenario. It's big.
"Something in the way. Yeah."
Reporters, Jerry. They been callin' all night.
Just be friendly and say "no comment."
Talking and saying nothing, man, it's an art I have not mastered.
Wait. Did I just say "hon" to him?
Yeah, Dotty. You did. _ 50.
Don't let him stay up too late.
Hey, man, tonight I'm going to teach Ray about jazz.
Good, that'll put him to sleep early. No offense.
He's asleep, right?
Yeah, how'd it go with Sportboy?
Still going.
Don't ever stop fucking me!
Sooner... or later... I'll have to stop.
Oh Gawd, oh yes, it's never been better. Never BETTER!!
You know. I don't think we need to do the thing where we tell each other everything!
Jerry, this is what intimacy is!
Oh  don't forget tomorrow we have dinner with Wade Cooksey.
I know about the bachelor party.
Who told you?
One of the accountants.
The power move is to go unannounced. Black suit, right?
And the egyptian cotton shirt that works with or without the jacket. Tell me again, how was it left with Cush?
"Dad says we gwan sleep on it.
Ugh!
Seventytwo clients. ONE stayed. Jacket on, tie in pocket. _ 44.
Good. They're all heatseekers! All of them, everybody. You keep one superstar and they'll all follow. There's no real loyalty, and the first person who told me that, Jerry Maguire, was you.
I think I was trying to sleep with you at the time.
Well, it worked, and I will not let you fail. You are Jerry Ma fuckinguire.
That's right.
King of the Housecalls! Master of the Living Room!
Okay, this is working.
You are not a loser.
Who said anything about "loser?" Where do you get this word "loser?"
I'm sorry. I was on a roll. I meant something else. When do you want to leave?
Now.
Let's go. I'll drive you. _ 45.
I know. Sorry I threw a scare into our lives there 
Don't worry about it  I never told you what I thought of that memo either 
Well, no you didn't 
You lost your head, it happens. I'm so fuckin jazzed! Listen. I'm going to have to fly to Chicago tomorrow, how 'bout if we meet in the Dallas airport and we all fly into New York together for the draft?
It's a plan   _ 51.
This can't be happening to me.
Jerry! Do something 
I just heard.
What do I do? How do I spin this?
Oh honey. It's spun.
It's all about you, isn't it? Soothe me, save me, love me 
Could you just stop moving?
I have to finish my job 
Everything's on the fucking run! Everything 
Jerry. You and I are salespeople. We sell 
Look, I don't want a 
It's not "love me." It's not "trust my handshake." It's make the sale. Get it signed. There shouldn't be "confusion" about that.
Go ahead. Jump right on into my nightmare. The water's warm. _ 65.
Tell you what  I'd prefer loyalty..
What was our deal when we first got together? Brutal truth, remember?
I think you added the "brutal."
Don't say it. We're both ragged out right now.
 stop 
Listen to me!
No.
It's over 
Didn't hear it.
There is something missing here.
You've never been alone and you can't be alone 
Listen to me, it's over.
No one has ever dumped me.
I'm not trying to make history. _ 67.
I did the 23 hour noseroute to the top of El Capitan in 6 hours! I can make this work.
No.
Oh Jerry.
You know I didn't ever want to hurt you.
You can drive down there, Sir ..
I'm already walking. Where is it?
On the infill. The guy from L.A.'s just gone down there ..
He has? .. What's he doing here?
He was waiting for you, Sir. Wait ed a good while. Said he'd go down and take a look. I hope that's O.K.
Damn A, it's O.K. With a bit of luck I'm goin home. What we got?
A derelict.
Where do you fit in, Trimble?
His father's the manager, Sir. The kid was up there shooting vermin, and he found the body.
I wonder what would make him do a thing like that?
Don't annoy me, Travis.
No, Sir.
I think I found some thing horrible, Sir
Whatta you mean, "horrible?"
I think I've found a hand.
The coroner wants to know if we can release the derelict?
Ask him.
Hey, we're not talking "talk" tonight.
No one's gonna make that Gent. Six months investigation, & the nearest we got, we thought he was a sailor.
Just easy on the words you're putting in my face, Sergeant ..
Whass going on here?
You think you're the only guy ever worked a homicide? I was a bigcity cop too. And I bust ed the clock on fucken Jennifer. I know more about this man than you'll over know  and that's how I know it ain't him  you 're investigating a soapopera ..
Alright, guys. We stop this <u>now</u>.
He tells her, "byebye," and she gets "attacked." Well, give me a fucking break! There <u>is</u> no "Ser ial Killer." Stick her name up in neon, there's still no Serial kil ler! And I ain't the only one say ing it. Everyone in this building is saying it. And I mean <u>everyone</u>.
Shut up, King Jay ..
No, c'mon, Freddy, let's have this out & over. You know what everyone thinks? They think you're making a case coz you found yourself a nice piece of ass. And no one's blaming you for it, I hear she's worth the flowers. But don't come in here get ting holy over us. Sure I put it in the paper. Coz I wanted to <u>stop</u> this bullshit. I don't want you drunk out ta your head searching my office ag ain. it's pissing <u>me</u>, & <u>everyone</u> off.
I'm not giving him <u>Pizza</u>. I haven't seem him for a year? I'm gonna cook him a dinner.
Dinner's another night, darlin .. This is a driveby. I got an hour ..
Bobby's out .. What's the hurry?
Friday night at City Hall. Got a great chance to frighten the fat.
Freddy's new obsession ..
So tonight she confesses?
Tonight I'm feeling lucky ..
No it isn't .. It's Californian ..
Even better.
Such a shame .. She's a really sweet kid ..
She's a doll. But I wish he hadn't brought her out here.
He's happy, darlin ..
I'm sure he is. But gettin in to the "element" is a bad idea.
Except for the hair color, she looks just like Suzanne?
Well, that's who she is. Cept she can't run away.
You want something, darling?
I wouldn't mind another B.E.E.R.
She married some English prick.
He's not that bad of a guy ..?
Got a handshake like a partially excited penis.
When did John divorce?
Two or three years ago.
What was she like?
Suzanne? Very pretty. She was a semi professional model. But a policeman's wife she wasn't. So one day, she just packed it and left. And his whole life went straight down the nearest toilet.
What does that mean?
You know, he crashed. He just couldn't come to terms with it .. John hates to lose, and he hated losing her .. Every spare minute, he's driving down to San Diego, having a terrible time with her, getting drunk, and driving back .. you just don't believe the amount he drank ..
You think he still loves her?
Think he still thinks about her. But not like then. Then was an obsession.
I haven't worn heels since I was 16. I don't think I could walk in these?
Sure you can. Anyway, parties are all about standing still ..
You think John would like it?
I think John, would <u>love</u> it ...
How you doing on those shoes?
Don't mix very well with beer.
Is that Margie?
I'm here, honey. I'm right here.
A blind girl can just walk out of here, and you don't know who with?
You find something curious in that?
Yeah, I guess I do.
Then let me put your mind at ease .. Firstly, Amber isn't "blind"  she has some useful vision  and second, this isn't a prison, it's a college of higher education  a severe vis ual disability doesn't mean my stud ents don't value their independence as much as anybody else  and Amber was a very independent young woman  She decided to leave  so she left ..
And you got <u>no</u> <u>idea</u> with who?
No, Sergeant, I got <u>no</u> <u>idea</u> with who. And I might add, that in another six weeks, a hundred and fifty students will be leaving here, & driving away for their Christmas holidays with pe ople whose name Iwon'tknoweither ..
Interview over, Blattis ...
C'mon, Chief, if it's sensitive, tell me .. I'm not taking notes ..
.. we got a body part. We don't know what it is  probably some kind of hospital debris  we're gonna try and check it out. O.K. Now you know as much as we do ..
Grateful for your candor, Sir.
Then do me a favor, and keep this outta the newspaper  that dump serves a dozen different communities, we don't even know if it's ours? Till we do I don't want no one worrying about ..
Wasn't frozen, was it, Sergeant?
Come on, Michael, outta here, the guys trying to move in. I told you what we know, something else, you 'll be the first to hear about it ..
What are you doing, Travis?
I been told to take your car in, Sir.
Why?
I dunno, Sir. Brought you up a Chevy.
You got a warrant for this?
Yes, Sir.
Who sought the warrant?
The man from the F.B.I.
What d'you wanna ask, Mr Ross?
I'm Mr Berlin. Mr Ross is right here. And Mr Ross is maybe gonna take a few notes, if that's O.K.? O.K. .. I'd like you to tell me in what ever way you want, what you can remember about the time you spent with Amber on the aft ernoon she left? Take your time, and nothing's too trivial, O.K.
Well, I think I told you on the phone .. I went up to her room to say goodbye, and we just sat on the bed and chatted a while, while her friend was coming in and out collecting her things ..
What kind of friend? Was he a boy friend? An old friend? New friend?
You must have some idea about him.
When we spoke on the phone, did you know I was blonde?
No.
Why not? You heard my voice?
John? .. You never said that on the phone? .. What makes you think his name was John?
I don't know. I guess she must have called him John? I'm mak ing tea. Would you like some?
The elevator wasn't working?
No, it has a mind of its own.
Can I see your hands?
My hands?
Is there anything else you can tell me? Anything about him or her? Doesn't matter how small?
No. Except he smoked. Like you.
Me?
Yes, I could smell it on his breath, like I can on your's.
D'you have a dog? Seeing Eye Dog?
No.
Lotta scratchmarks on your door?
Sometimes I look after friends dogs, if they go to dances, or something?
Did Amber have a dog?
Yes.
What color was it?
I don't know.
Have you been here long?
No, just a minute or two .. I knocked on your door  no one home, so I followed the music ..
I'm sorry. I'll get my things.
No problem. I'm not in a hurry.
I suppose I'm the worst witness you've ever had?
I gotta admit, you're one of them. Just wish I knew what you meant by a "hollow car?"
Well, some cars sound fat and some cars sound thin, and this kind of car sounded "hollow" ..
If I came to the diner with you, would you bring me back?
Of course I would ..
I'm sorry, someone slammed the door on me. I couldn't get out.
It was probably the wind.
What are you reading?
Hamlet. Have you read it?
No.
You should. It's wonderful.
Are you wearing a uniform?
No.
Oh.
Well, I'm glad we got the conver sational side of lunch over with.
I'm sorry .. I don't like sitting in the middle of a restaurant .. I feel like everyone's looking at me ..
There's no one "looking at you" .. There's hardly anyone in here. The only person looking at you, is me.
Are you married?
Was. But I don't like to talk about it.
You just asked me to ask you questions.
I know, but you pick on the one time in my life I like not to remember. I was in the bad lands. Really not well. It's something that happens to a lota cops. We don't wanna talk about that.
"Thoughts that lie too deep for tears."
Yeah, that'll do .. Is that "Hamlet?"
No, Wordsworth .. Do you like poetry?
I don't know, I haven't read much. I don't think poetry's my kinda thing?
Do you pray?
Pray?
You said, you were in the bad lands?
No, I don't pray .. Had a dream once, about God, just around the time I was getting well .. He was a nasty lookin little guy, moved into the apartment right on topa me .. I said, don't you listen to people's prayers? He said, prayers? Not often. They're Junk Mail.
Sorry?
.. sorry your father, mother sis ter, whatever .. I couldn't take another day of it .. Come on, I'm gonna rob you of a cup of coffee ..
She runs a kind of hair dress ing and you know, beauty salon ..
Have you known her long?
I was married to her sister ..
I know what you're like ..
How d'you know what I'm like?
Ross told me.
Really? What did he say?
He said you're quite chubby. And you have a nervous tick.
He said that? What else did he say?
Just your age.
Which is what?
Fiftyseven .. I don't mind ..
I have to talk to you, Helena.
I know.
You know? How do you know?
Coz you hardly said a word since you got here. But you been thinking pretty loud ..
Has he got your aunt's address?
I don't think so .. He said the police had been calling .. want ed to ask me some more questions ..
Who? Probably Angelo .. I'll take care of it .. Don't worry, we 're gonna find this guy, and everything'll be O.K. .. O.K.?
You're looking worried again, Helena?
No I'm not.
You're looking more worried now than when you "decided to stop worrying"?
Alright, I'm worried about Christmas. I wish I hadn't told him I'd be back ..
Why can't I stay with you?
It's not possible right now.
Why?
Please don't ask no quest ions now .. Not right now ..
She has an aunt, in Vermont. I'll take her there tonight.
I'm going back to the institute.
No .. not now ..
Don't say that. Don't you <u>dare</u> say that .. <u>I believe you</u> ..
I know you're trying to help me, but you don't understand.
<u>Then explain it to me</u>. I got enough darkness, don't I?
The man who killed Amber is a psychopath. He was up at the in stitute to <u>kill you</u>  he don't wanna kill Rose  he was there to <u>kill you</u>  that's the truth  and I didn't wanna tell it to you  but that's the reason I want you to stay at Margie's  coz I can't protect you here ..
Why does he want to kill me?
Coz he thinks you're a witness.
I can't identify him ..
He don't know that. I didn't.
Then why didn't he kill me?
He doesn't need my help.
I know about alcohol, John.
You do?
I'm blind because my father drank.
You don't wanna sit here any more, sweetheart ..
I wanna be near you ...
I think they're gonna arrest me.
I don't want them to arrest you.
It's not as bad as it sounds .. They can't refuse me bail. Raise bail of my own cognizance & find the best damned lawyer there is ..
As recent as we have .. What ex actly is your interest in Amber?
I'm afraid I can't give you an ans wer to that, Mr Goodridge. As I ex plained to your secretary, we're do ing a lotta looking, but we're not even sure it's her we're lookin for ..
Then what are you hoping I'm gon na do? Dissuade, or persuade you?
I was hopin since we spoke that you might have remembered something that would give us an idea where she is?
Then you could have saved yourself a lot of driving, Sergeant. What I said on the phone's the same as I'm saying now. I got no idea where Amb er is, or who it was took her there.
Yes, Sir.
As she's a member of my staff, may I ask what this is about?
Well, apparently, she saw Amber the weekend she left, & was briefly in the room with the guy she left with.
I see .. Well, she's teaching an other class at four .. I'd apprec iate it if you don't detain her ..
Yeah, in and outta Frisco on the big boats .. Every lead we had went right out to sea .. Night, night, Freddy T .. John ..
How come he's suddenly so forth coming? I'd like to kick him right in the ass. If he'd discussed it with me, I mighta gotten somewhere ..
.. feel like I'm getting close to this guy .. and all the time, feel like I'm sharpening a pencil with a broken load .. I'm sorry, King J ..
What are you looking for?
Vehicle references.
Wrong cabinet.
His blind friend got "attacked." Angelo went up there, and some how, it got itself in the paper.
<u>You</u> put it in there.
I may have said some thing. I don't recall.
Don't lie, Taylor. I just had this Blattis guy on the phone asking me for a comment  you gave him the whole damned case!
Alright, I gave him the case? .. So the case is closed, so what?
So read it! You just hung a target around her neck!
Bullshit.
Don't you know nothing about this guy? He <u>reads</u> the newspapers. Col lects the cuttings. When are they gonna find her? Now he's reading Helena Robertson's name, phrased like she's a fucking witness. You couldn't have done anything more stupid if you'd sat down & tried ..
Hey, c'mon, country boys, let's all line up and hear the expert.
Just walk away from me, Taylor ..
You don't know what you done, Taylor.
<u>If</u>, your friend from San Diego was up here, and thought for <u>one</u> out of <u>two fucken seconds</u>, she was a danger to him, he'da taken her out weeks ago ..
I know what a "witness" is.
Well, her, it ain't. That bitch is blind as a blonde fucken bat.
He's offerin you a deal? Why don't you take it ..
He ain't offerin me shit.
I've told you the truth. It isn't me .. I've never call ed Ross "Freddy" in my life ..
I've heard you call him Freddy.
You <u>haven't</u>. And you got no voice in here, Taylor, <u>so keep it shut</u>.
Week or two. Musta been on the ker osene. Stinks like a diesel engine.
Fucken noddle's hanging off ..
What does that mean, Sergeant?
Cut your own throat, you're ner vous about it, tend to hesitate. He's got three trial cuts, lower left side of the neck, before he works up courage for the big one.
Alright, gentlemen, I'm gonna leave you. I got a couple of questions for the paper, Serg eant? Mind if I swing by later, wring out a teabag with you?
My pleasure .. Who's Popeye?
Your predecessor. He did n't like to get outta bed. Catch you later, Freddy T ..
Is this normal?
Average rainfall, 48 inches. Pisses down, October to June.
Did he get you the job?
I think he would have if he could have  been trying to get me up here long enough  I think he may have bribed the old guy to retire ..
Popeye wasn't old. Younger than you.
Did you find the knife, Sergeant?
No .. But we have a theory ..
Kid told me he didn't take it?
Maybe he's lying to you?
Why did he ask if it was frozen?
That, I couldn't tell you .. And don't worry about anya this crap, by the time you're back it's gone ..
What is that?
Laser enhancement of the finger tip .. it's really bothering me .. See these striations right here? It's like she's always worrying the end of her finger? Rubbing it with a thumb nail, or something?
How do you know her hair's black?
Hair on her hand. Plus Jen nifer had raven black hair.
What is all this Jennifer stuff?
Yes, Sir, I think they maybe. I think "Jennifer," and this lady got hit by the same guy?
I don't see that at all ..
I got four points of posit ive comparison on the cut ..
Yeah, that's all very inter esting, but where's the body?
Probably making him feel a bit antsy seein it back on the wall. He worked a lotta time on this.
I thought it was Taylor's case?
Sucked in officers from all over the county. And it was the worst six months this station ever had.
What do you want me to do, Chief?
I'm not telling you what to do. What I will say, is <u>right</u> <u>now</u>, that child's tricycle there is more important to me than this ..
You're pushing this too hard. It's like you <u>want</u> me to say <u>stop</u>? You must know that's the way this is going, John? There's other work to do, why don't ya ease off a little?
Coz this is a major & we're closer to this bastard than anyone's ever been.
Then <u>where's the body</u>? .. Where's the body, and <u>why's he hidden it</u>?
He <u>hasn't</u> hidden it. He never made a hit this far north before, and he never read a weather forecast .. She's probably fifteen feet from the highway, three feet under snow.
Have you got a match on the bullet?
No.
Have you got a print from the hand?
No, Sir.
It could be anyone's hand. Illeg ally disposed of hospital debris ..
It's <u>her</u> hand. <u>Her</u> scars. <u>Her</u> dog. Her dog's shot. And she's missing.
She's <u>not</u> "missing." Did she shout? Did she scream? Did he coerce her? <u>No</u>. She left of her own free will .. And if she gets on a plane and goes to Peru with the prick, she's still not missing. You got no case, John.
If you're not gonna hear me, Chief ..
I <u>have</u> heard you. You just don't like hearing <u>me</u>. You got this whole damned thing outta proportion. I don't know what you gotten used to in Los Angeles, but I don't believe there's a Police Chief, <u>in this country</u>, would put a task force together for a body part ..
We have a multiple homicide, Sir ..
We have a body part in suspicious circumstances  a tailor's dummy wearing a brassiere  <u>and a bill</u> <u>for seventeen dollars for its wig</u>!
I'm shutting you down on this "blind thing," John.
Is that my punishment for embarrassing Mr Heineman?
Don't underestimate me .. the Mayor's pissed  but that's nothing to do with this  sit down  How many times have you been up at that institute?
Three or four.
I'm talking, outside the girl?
Once.
Got a letter from this Goodridge guy? Says, you're upsetting his students?
That's bullshit,
He says, you freaked one of em out? "Asking a newly blind kid if he can 'see,' is both cruel, and dangerous" ..
I never asked if he could "see." I just asked one or two of the stud ents if they remembered anything?
And did they?
No.
Alright, you got it. And I'll be putting an Observer in with you.
I want Serato .. Why can't I have Serato?
Coz I'm <u>short of men</u> & Ang elo won't do it .. Who ever I got free first  <u>you</u> <u>get</u> ..
I'll sign anything you want. <u>Please</u>. Bring here her .. <u>I want Helena here</u> ..
You ain't talking to no one, till you calm down.
I am calm .. <u>I am calm</u> ..
Did you bring it with you?
I hope I'm not intruding?
Be my guest. What you got?
Old guy, offed himself with a knife. I can't find the knife.
I dunno .. Guess the dozer musta shifted him? You need some hands up here to look ..
You heard. Look for the knife.
No, Sir. I haven't started till Monday. I'm a "tourist."
"Welcome to Eureka."
Mr Blattis, of our local news paper. You sure it's a suicide?
Uh huh .. He's well rehearsed ..
So what happened to the barbecues, and fishing?
Watch my lips, coz you're not gonna believe this  <u>this</u> is a rare occurrence. We haven't had a body in eighteen months.
What about that kid, Ross?
Oh, shit. Of course. The kid. <u>Travis</u>. Find that kid and get the knife off him. He's gonna lie to you  but he's got it  so <u>get</u> it. Well, go on, get on with it. Whatta you staring at?
What do you think?
I think you're here all day.
We give it one more hour. Did the photographer do the dogs?
The <u>dogs</u>?
Two dogs. He should do the dogs.
Yeah, he can go ...
Think I'll lay down with him. Only way I'll get outta here.
Who is who?
A professional, whining, conperson bitch with an ass the size of Africa ..
Not for me ..
What d'you mean, I just opened it for you? This is <u>French</u> champagne.
Not today .. I'm on a diet to day .. I'll take a diet soda ..
Since when did you drink diet soda?
How's the new residence?
O.K.
What does that mean?
Not too good in daylight ..
C'mon, just shut your eyes until it's painted. You're gonna love it. This is "God's Country," John.
What time is it?
Seven thirtyfive .. Here, "Town Gets Top Cop." I was gonna pin it to your wall.
Why so coy about the word "frozen"?
Because, don't get into it ...
There's nothing in the files?
Watch my lips .. <u>Don't get into it</u> ..
It's an "unsolved." They spent 500 thousand dollars & bought emselves a dead end  You might wanna check it with Taylor, he worked the case.
I already did. What's his problem?
He thinks you stole his promotion. What exactly you doin there, John?
It's a method for quitting smoking.
It's a technique I read about. If you smoke 60 a day, you buy three packs, throw one cigar ette away, and smoke 59. Day 2, you throw 2 away and smoke 58 ..
Why don't you throw them all away, and smoke none?
Because it's a ritual you gotta go through with. I'm down to 10.
You want my advice?
Maybe?
Find yourself a farmer's daughter with nice big fucking tits, and shake that "byebye." Send it to Sacramento, John .. I sniff grief ..
You gotta stop smoking ..
I <u>am</u> stopping smoking ...
I don't mean this "system" shit that keeps you sucking, I mean <u>stop</u> .. I was exactly like you are .. I used to wake in the night  heart going so hard I coulda made love with my left tit .. If I can stop, <u>you</u> can ..
How'd you do it, old man?
Someone bet me a dollar ..
A dollar? .. Not worth giving up for a dollar ..
What do you mean?
Worrying  clicking  picking  You may as well be back in Los Angeles.
What do you mean, Ross?
Why don't you dump it? Mail it off. Give the fucking F.B.I. a present?
Why don't you dump the "Fat Lady?"
Because I dislike her too much ..
O.K. and I'm not in love with this fukker? That's how I feel about him.
No you don't. That's how you <u>think</u> you feel about him. That's how you feel about <u>yourself</u>. You won't give yourself onefuckingminute for <u>you</u>.
Pig Woman agreed to take a test.
I think I got something  twenty two years old, dark hair  study ing mathematics   Last seen <u>5 weeks ago</u> ..
Where is everyone?
I dunno .. I guess this is staff side of the building?
This looks promising .. I think this one could be it?
Thank Christ we got a witness.
Let me just keep going a while. She might remember something?
<u>What</u>? She's <u>blind</u>, Bro. You may as well ask one of these Beethoven guys on the piano?
Had a seeing Eye Dog since she was eighteen .. didn't I tell you those dogs meant something ..
No, you didn't.
Alright, I didn't, but I nearly did, and if I had I'd have been right .. I knew there was some thing about that Labrador, that dog was too good to be dead .. We gotta get back up that dump ..
No way .. not me, Mister. I'm not going up there again. Might find someone's prick in a hotdog roll.
We're going.
Forget it. They got stringent hyg iene rules. He's long gone in lime.
Maybe not? I'm feeling lucky ..
So am I. But where's my money?
Don't start again. If you win a bet, you can't keep winning it ..
Pay me, and I shut up.
I haven't got it.
Then give me that Zippo.
Why?
I need some security. I don't trust you anymore.
I had one <u>puff</u> on a <u>pipe</u>.
I don't want excuses, I want that weirdlooking stuff called "cash."
What do you want it for?
To throw out of the window.
What are you doing, Ross? I've had that 15 years! ..
It's not your friend. It keeps you sucking. Remem ber the old Bum's lungs?
I remember the old bastard's liver! I don't believe you did that. I had a great sent imental attachment to that.
You want me to stop the car?
Six girls over a period of 18 months, and give or take a head or two, the M.O.'s exactly the same. Dark hair. No hands. All shot with a high velocity twen tytwo in the back of the head.
How come the F.B.I. don't put anya this together? They work ed over "Jennifer" for months?
They possibly did  but they nev er had a head, so they never had a bullet  and they never got an I.D.  not on any of em  never bust a homicide unless you know who your victim is  we're the first to get a positive identity.
Identity of whom? You got a girl, doesn't even have a driver's lic ense? .. She's untraceable, John .. You need fifty detectives on this.
That's what I'm here for. I want you to come and see Citrine with me? He's not gonna here it from me but I know he'd listen to you.
Listen to me saying what?
I wanna take that fucking Blind In stitute to pieces .. Every address book, every phone call, everyone in and outta there in the last 5 years ..
For a <u>dead</u> <u>dog</u>?
We've fused into a major series, Ross. This girl isn't the second victim. This is "Jennifer <u>Eight</u>."
That isn't what you said before.
I was wrong.
You believe me, don't you?
What does it matter what I bel ieve? .. What you gotta worry about is what Citrine believes ..
Did he shut you down?
All but .. How <u>you</u> doing?
I dunno, I daren't go in there  just about get her wired up, and the fucking mayor walks in  mad as hell  what are we doing fuck ing with his staff? We should be out chasing major violators ..
I wish he'd tell that to Citrine.
Did I say he did?
You looked like you did?
No, I think you'll find I looked like he could have? By accident even? He's up here spraying the scenery all day.
He didn't shoot it, Ross. And no way by accident. There's a flashburn. It was pointblank.
Why's she blind, Bro?
Car accident.
God, it pisses me off, Ross.
No God, Brother. If there was a God, asses wouldn't be at the perfect height for kicking.
Stop it.
I never knew about the sailor the ory, Ross. He might have that one little thing I need in his files?
John, <u>stop</u> <u>it</u>. The case is on its ass, you're closed. C'mon, let it go for once .. Have a drink. C'mon, relax, drink your beer ..
You gotta stop calling Los Angeles .. You're dragging L.A. around with you like an addiction. Look at the shit you're putting yourself through? For what? For <u>nothing</u>, I know it, I been there. Remember me? Up to my asshole in anger, living off the vitamins in cigarettes? If there's a body under the snow, <u>fuck</u> <u>it</u>. Let somebody else worry about it. You gotta accept you stopped living in that world, & try and give yourself a break in this ..
Just makes to so God damned mad ..
You're a fucking great policeman, but give yourself a break. You're here 5 minutes, you find yourself a fucking homicide? .. Not many people could do that in a place like this .. And you gotta admit, there's a lot of shaky areas in this case? .. I mean, stop me if I'm going up the wrong nostril ..
She wasn't lying about the van.
Alright, she wasn't lying about the van. But it could have been <u>any</u> van? Any little foreign diesel? .. She's <u>blind</u>, Bro .. It's sad .. She's pro bably lonely, and you're a nice guy to have around .. But you're getting far too far into the element, Brother ..
Sure.
You don't need me to tell you what hap pens when you get emotionally involved?
Alright, enough, Ross. You'll bring on my "Nervous Tick" ...
Nothing you gotta say do I wanna hear right now. So save yourself saying it.
I'm not in here to apologize, John. I told you what was gonna happen & it's happened? "Goodbye, Princess," & the same night she gets attacked? That's a tough one to swallow, Bro?
I'm already familiar with Taylor's opinion.
You don't really believe this?
<u>One hundred fucking per cent</u>! .. And you know why? Coz I never told her goodbye. O.K.? Is that good enough for the "committee?"
Well .. I didn't know that ..
No .. You didn't know that ..
That's a very stupid question, Ross.
I'm asking it.
How the hell do I know <u>who</u>? Some jerkoff. Some peepingtom prick.
Ease off, John ..
<u>I'm sick of this toy town shit</u>.
Everything you say sounds reason able. But there's also a reason able explanation for the opposite.
Don't give me that! <u>Not another</u> <u>word</u>! When you had the Fat Lady in there, and I asked you if she was lying, you looked me right in the eyes and said <u>yes</u>. So as far as I was concerned, <u>she's ly</u> <u>ing</u>. And if the King of fucking England had walked in & told me different, I wouldn't have bel ieved him  because <u>you</u> told me ..
I dunno what I can do to help you?
I dunno what I'd do with your help. I've gotta take her out of there ..
What about Citrine?
Screw Citrine. He can fire me.
Can't thank you enough, Ross ..
Don't thank me. Thank Margie.
Yeah .. I guess she's in the kit chen .. We got a socalled prof essional cook out there having a nervous breakdown over a turkey ..
Are you sure you didn't call?
You got a quiet phone somewhere?
Hey, John, don't start getting antsy over this tonight. It may well have been the local cops?
That's just what I wanna find out.
Jesus. What are you doin?
I spose I'm drinking myself to sleep. It's Helena's Christmas songs .. they're really pretty ..
What exactly you doing, John?
I'm going up to the institute.
Now?
This "cop" that's calling, thinks she gonna be there over Christmas.
Listen, you don't havta come?
Hey ..
Where's your watch?
I guess by the bed.
It's twenty of three.
Bull shit .. I'm in my prime ..
Bits.
What d'you mean, "bits."
Policemen's bodies age at diff erent rates. Look at me. Gut in its fifties. Balls in their six ties. And feet in their eighties ..
<u>Hit those wipers, Ross</u>.
What if we need a back up?
We're not <u>here</u>. I don't want the desk to hear us ..
Alright. I'll start at the top, and work down.
You ain't going in alone?
That's a liability, Ross. I don't want you hanging on to my shirt. Anyone but me comes down these stairs, take em out but try and keep him alive. I want this bastard living ..
As I said, Sergeant, you nearly ran into <u>me</u>? What's the problem?
I'm afraid it's the "van" again.
The van?
Is it your vehicle?
No, my mother's .. You better stop in .. I'm just here to feed the cat.
I'm sorry to worry you with this, but we had a real serious robbery, and we 're chasing a white V.W. van? You guy came up an the computer, so as a matt er of routine we have to check. Could you tell me who's driven it recently?
Only me and Mom ..
How about any guys on your staff?
We only got one .. He doesn't drive.
Did you like that, Mama?
Yes.
I'm glad of it. I'd rather please you than anybody I know of. Oh, darlin', will you give me something?
What?
You'll never guess. Shut your eyes, Mama. Shut 'em for little Jakie. Ha. I'm gonna steal something. Ha, ha, ha, ha. I'll give it back to you some day, too, you see if I don't. Mama, darlin', if I'm a success in this show, well, we're gonna move from here. Oh yes, we're gonna move up in the Bronx. A lot of nice green grass up there and a whole lot of people you know. There's the Ginsbergs, the Guttenbergs, and the Goldbergs. Oh, a whole lotta Bergs; I don't know 'em all. And I'm gonna buy you a nice black silk dress, Mama. You see Mrs. Friedman, the butcher's wife, she'll be jealous of you.
Oh no
Yes, she will. You see if she isn't. And I'm gonna get you a nice pink dress that'll go with your brown eyes.
No, Jakie, no. III
What? Whatta you mean, no? Who is  who is telling you? Whatta you mean, no? Yes, you'll wear pink or else. Or else you'll wear pink. And, darlin', oh, I'm gonna take you to Coney Island.
Yeah?
Yes, I'm gonna ride on the ShoottheChutes. An' you know in the Dark Mill? Ever been in the Dark Mill?
Oh, no. I wouldn't go ...
Well, with me, it's all right. I'll kiss you and hug you. You see if I don't. Now Mama, Mama, stop now. You're gettin' kittenish. Mama, listen, I'm gonna sing this like I will if I go on the stage. You know, with this show. I'm gonna sing it jazzy. Now get this ...
That bad, huh?
We're out of decaf...We're out of petty cash...And we're out of requisition forms....
You have the safety talk at school, one o'clock tomorrow....
Anything to do before I go home?
That man keeps calling about his training film. I can't convince him we don't have a S.W.A.T. team.
Good night, Polly....
Where's Lenny?
Gone to Ben Masters' place. Cow tipping.
Cow tipping?
Claims kids come around at night and tip over his sleeping cows. They're not giving milk.
I'll take care of it.
Deputy Brody will take care of it personally.
Listen to Carla...Marry me...I'm tall, dark and handsome...two out of three ain't bad....
Don't flatter yourself....
How much longer? This is supposed to be your party.
In a few minutes....
I knew there was a reason I could afford this. To the woman of my dreams.. Who grows more beautiful....
Here it comes....
Who grows more beautiful....
Here comes the cow caca....
More beautiful with each passing minute...
I told you....
Now wait a minute... I'm being serious here....
Oh, Jake...
Happy birthday, darling. ...
Don't go weak in the knees on me tonight....
I just want to make an honest woman of you....
I'm not going to marry you until you straighten out your life and your hair.
She's in management....
I'm training to....
Manage the whole damn place some day. I'm looking forward to living in the style to which I would like to become accustomed....
I'd have to manage a nookie parlor to do that....
Woman has taste....
When he has a pillow over his head....
You want to be careful how you talk to me... I'm about to become famous...You should see....
Stop farting around....
Stop busting my hump....
Try the area around the wreck....
How many...?
Will you leave me alone...?
You tagging them...?
I'm separating the ladies from the gentlemen....
You moved any slower, you'd grow roots...We've got a schedule...shake it, man....
The females have eggs....
We'll pass around cigars....
We're being paid to see where they go...How they propagate....
If we had some decent money, I'd be able to read their temperatures... Study their motor systems....
If you'd leave me alone, I'd be able to get my work done....
I know how to tag a damn conch....
The readings suck....
Maybe it's the tags that suck....
I made them, man....
I stuck them on, man....
You didn't stick them on right....
If you made them right, it wouldn't happen...They leak....
A blind man could find more conch on a mountainside....
You couldn't find your ass with both hands....
You leave me high and dry...You come back looking like a zombie....
Hey!
Shouldn't pick on that. Sorry. I'm sorry about your brother....
Yeah, well, just stop yelling.
I missed you, is all. It's dull around here working alone...Smelling all that sweet cologne....
Put me down....
They won't fight with me....
Put me down, damnit....
Maybe I missed you too....
Where the hell's the beer...?
Bad boy....
I didn't do it on purpose....
Sharp shirt, Jake....
May your sex life be as busy as your shirt....
Office of Naval Research has some money....
Forget it....
Money is money....
They put bombs on dolphins....
I know a guy who got money from them to study eels....
A regular tropo...Spend the rest of your life in a bathing suit, living off nickel and dime grants. You want to be a bum all your life, be my guest. Not me. I'm not growing old chasing snails and dying from terminal crotch rot....
It's not a bad life, Jake....
You're afraid of the competition out there....
He's just trying to keep you from disappearing up your own....
You're nothing but a bunch of goddamn romantics. You're never going to amount to anything.
How many?
Stop busting my hump....
Oh, it's okay for you, but not for me....
I've struck the motherlode. I'm counting... spade work....
I wish you wouldn't say that....
What?
Spade's a garden tool....
Trouble with you, Jake, is you have no sense of humor....
Holy shit!
You guys are making this into some thing that just isn't so... It's just a shark. A great big bloody wonderful shark. Don't say anything to anyone. The locals find out they'll panic. They'll want to kill it. We've got us a great white, Michael. We're going to do us some real research....
Don't say anything about this to my mother....
Where is everybody?
Down here....
What happened to Clarence and...?
Gave them the day off....
What for? We've got a job to finish ...Why are you making the monitor?
As the sun slowly sets in the West, we bid a fond farewell to the family of conch....
We're out of money, partner.. We wrap it up, write it up and turn it in... How come your heart sounds stronger than mine? You got two of them...?
We don't write up anything until we're done....
Okay.. .we're done, man....
When we got the grant....
When I got the grant.....
When I signed on....
When I invited you...
We got it together, Jake....
Okay...we got it together....
We have at least three months' work left. We can't write a report...We don't know enough....
We've got a rare bird here, Michael. Great whites don't come to the Bahamas. There's never been one down here before. I'm not just going to let it swim away.
My name goes on that report. It's a halfassed job, I don't get my doctorate. Neither do you....
The shark will get it for us.
I thought we were planning a long rosy future together.
So did I....
I don't know shit about electronics....
You don't know shit about anything. Time you learned....
You sure you've done this before?
Lots of times....
And it's always worked?
So far..
What are we getting out of this old bucket?
What she's got. Nine knots....
Shit....
How long have you known Hoagie?
What?
How long have you known Hoagie?
What the hell does Hoagie have to do with this?
How long?
As long as he's been here....
Bring her to starboard.
How long has he been here...?
Who?
Hoagie.
I don't remember. One day he was just here....
What do you know about him?
What's so funny about that?
You think he's not good enough for her? You're right. If she was my mother, I'd send her home right now.
Bring her about. We're headed in the wrong direction....
Half the pilots down here fly drugs ...He's always going off....
Half don't...Bring her about....
I am...You must know something about him....
He gambles...He likes a good time...I see him around....
I hear he flies a lot of private charters....
We lost it....
Maybe the gear crapped out....
If you hadn't been gassing about Hoagie....
Maybe it's gone....
I've got about a half dozen...I'm going to tag them. You hearing anything?
Nothing.. But stay within a quarter mile...I've got a threemile radius on the monitor. If he comes back I'll hear him. You'll have time to get up.
I'm coming...How close is it?
Close...I don't know...Just get the hell....
It's my turn in the barrel, man....
You fall off a horse, you get right back on or you don't ride again....
I don't like it....
I didn't ask you to....
What about Carla's gig?
I'm going down, Jake....
She's not going to like it....
You getting a reading on them?
I live to hear the sound...You all right?
What about the monitor...? You getting anything on the shark?
Nothing...Hey Michael...You know I was thinking about yesterday. Maybe all that was wrong was he was hungry....
How come only me?
Maybe he only likes white meat....
Funny, Jake...Funny.
Just trying to be helpful....
A Moray eel...A Moray eel....
'It was so ugly...It was so big....'
'A Moray eel....'
'Snuck up on me....'
'It got us in hot water...We should have been there for Carla....'
Shit....
Don't be so down, man. Money's gone...Shark's gone...We're back to conch...We've got it made....
Shove it....
You'll be the eternal tropo...The old man and the sea...Know the words to this one? 'Oh, the shark has pretty teeth, dear, and he shows them pearly white...'
Stop that!
You don't like my voice...?
I don't like the song.
Tough shit. 'When the shark bites with his teeth, dear...'
You told me what?
Screw you, Jake....
Holy Christ....
Mom....
What the hell are you doing?
I've got to get to her....
You jump, you'll kill yourself....
If it works, if we can get it inside the bastard and set it off, it'll shock the hell out of it. We'll need a slave switch to set it off. Pull the dry cell out of the radio.
Anybody ever tell you you're nuts....
All the time....
It'll work....
Theory, partner...If it responds to external electrical impulse, it might respond to one coming from inside it...Confuse it...Drive it away....
If we're real lucky, it'll eat itself....
Wait for the sucker to charge, then hit the switch. Just like taking a picture.
The big picture...If we can't get him to swallow it, we'll shove it up his....
I forgot my rubber gloves. Let's do it.
Your equipment has crapped out again....
My equipment doesn't crap out....
I'll do it, Jake.
No way....
It's my fault...I have to....
We need it to eat electronics, man ...Not you. Get it on me....
Jake.
I'm the one who wanted to study it....
Matt?
Tell Thea I'm sorry....
I don't know what the hell to say....
You don't have to say anything, Matt ...I know how you feel....
Yeah....
Still chasing fish?
Still tagging conch?
We'll be done pretty soon....
Tricky little devils, aren't they? How's the degree doing?
Inch by inch....
How's Ellen?
She has good days and bad...I don't know....
She's a tough lady....
I wish there was something I could do....
She's had a lot to deal with...She needs time....
Would you talk to her? She's got it in her head that the shark came for him. She still blames it for my father's death....
Oh, boy....
The stuffing came out of the pillow he was wearing....
Feathers all over the place....
It was like having snow in the house ...Jesus, I miss them.
Let me speak to Ellen....
I'll get her. Have a good Christmas, Matt....
You too, Michael....
Jake tells me you're going to have to fly for the rest of your life to pay off what you lost at the crap table....
Good news travels fast....
Mind if I cut in? Your date's lonely....
The world would be a better place if more sons danced with their mothers.
I want you to leave her alone. I don't want you involving her in....
What's that....?
What do you deliver on all those charters you...?
I fly elephants for smugglers....
Can't this thing go any faster?
Any faster and it'll turn into a flying Cuisinart and dice us into oblivion....
Come on, Hoagie....
All you passengers are the same.... Complain...Complain....
What happened?
Nothing! What the hell are you doing down there?
The damn thing is going to have our asses....
It needs more time to charge.
It was theirs anyway. I 11 buy us all a drink....
We'll buy you one. We're having a party....
I hope she's a good sailor....
A shark attacked Thea and some kids...She's going after it....
You're going after her in that? You're crazy...It'll take all day in that bathtub....
You got a better idea...?
When we find her we'll radio her position...The Coast Guard will pick her up. Don't worry....
She'll be all right, partner.. She'll never find it. We couldn't....
What do you mean, it'll find her?
She said it was coming....
Grab your socks....
You sure you know how to do this.
Hell, no. What kind of pilot do you think I am...?
Hell, that wasn't half bad.. Get going...I'll keep it busy....
It'll come for the plane. It's attracted to metal. The electro magnetic impulse....
Will you get the bloody hell out of here....
What say we get the hell out of here, Ellen Brody. ...
Get her started....
Maybe the plane gave it indigestion....
They spend half their lives looking for food and the other half eating it They don't care what it is....
Keep it steady....
Aye, aye, Captain....
They had them on the big one....
I have coffee in the thermos.
I'm too young for coffee. Can I drive the plane?
I'll get it back next time.
How come it bumps up and down when there's no road?
The wind does that. Ever been to the Bahamas before?
Want to go for a little ride?
I do....
I don't know why I fish here...Never catch anything...Must be a sign under the water...'Beware, Hoagie's here....'
You're the man who drives the plane.
You the architect?
I'm the artist. Like my mother.
Hurry!
Just like that?
Can you keep a secret? Something no one else knows?
Yes I can....
I own the airplane. I can do whatever I want. I'm the boss.
No....
First time for everything is the best. After that you know too much and it's never quite the same.
You must get bored easily.
Can you just go off...?
I'm the captain of this majestic ship. It goes where I take it....
Flies the plane....
Mostly it feels like driving. You digging for buried treasure?
I don't know why I've told you all this. I hardly know you.
Sometimes talking to a stranger is easier....
I...I can't explain it. It's just something I feel.
I always listen to my feelings....
Sometimes I think I'm going crazy. The nightmares....
It could have been an accident....
It was no accident....
I'm not saying you're wrong, just that there are other possibilities....
When it killed Sean it was like a stab in the heart. I knew with absolute certainty that it had come for him. I knew that. I know it's coming....
Depends on where you want to go....
Doesn't matter....
How can you just take the plane like this?
Boss' day off...Take the wheel....
I can't....
Sure you can....
I don't know how....
No one does till they learn....
What are you doing?
If you don't take it, we'll be swimming in a minute.
It's just like driving a car....
Where do I pull off...?
You're doing fine. I'll keep you out of trouble. Relax....
I'm only doing this to get out of my family's hair....
One time I was flying supplies up the Amazon. Went down in the jungle....
You're not going to tell me, are you?
Got picked up by a tribe of head hunters....
You're impossible....
They took me to the chief, who took a long look at me, then took me in his hut....
The plane's turning....
How do you like flying?
It's wonderful....
What's wrong?
Nothing....
I'm fine.
No, you're not....
I'm terrific... Come on....
You promised me a drink....
Sharks come and go, Ellen. People don't have anything to do with it....
The kind with an umbrella in it....
Give it up... Kick it in the ass... Get on with your life....
A drink with an umbrella in it....
A big one....
A big one....
Couple of more passes and I'll buy my own airplane.. Hell, maybe my own airline....
You're not going to bet it all....
All or nothing. You want to roll them for me?
No!
Would you suffer through a dance with me?
You'll be sorry.
I have two right feet.
Good. I have two left....
Our little island seems to agree with you....
I have my own little island.
But it gets cold in winter....
I tried winter once. Burlington, Vermont. Flew a run to New York. I have a bone in my foot that still hasn't thawed. When I was a small boy....
That's hard to imagine....
I dreamed about always being warm... Stay a while....
I could take some time off....
You're always taking time off....
I like to travel....
I'll nick the boss' plane again....
What?
I borrow it without telling him....
Won't you get in trouble...?
Only if he finds out... It's a short hop to the Caribbean. We could take a few days....
There must be plenty of women who would be glad to go....
There are...I'm tired of oneway conversations....
I have this overwhelming desire to kiss you, Ellen Brody.
Why?
Because it wouldn't occur to you to know why. Blushing suits you....
I'm sorry...I....
There's nothing to be sorry about.
The whole idea is preposterous....
You sure you don't need glasses?
My vision is perfect....
I tried to tell you...I tried....
Give me a hand here for Christ's sake....
I can't....
Yes you can....
It came for him. It waited all this time and it came for him....
Mother....
Sit down, Ma....
You guys must be starving....
I want you to get out of the water....
What?
I want you to give up that terrible job.
Come on, Mom, you can't be serious....
You're damn right I'm serious....
I'm just getting started....
I don't want you in the water anymore....
Mom, you're upset. Sit down...Please....
I won't have anyone in my family any where near the water.... Never again...Never....
Hey, come on, you can't believe that voodoo. Sharks don't commit murder. They don't pick out a person....
It picked Sean...It killed your father....
Dad died from a heart attack....
He died from fear...From having to go out there after it....
There's never been a great white where we live. It's warm water... They don't like it....
Your brother's dead...Your father's dead....
Oh, it looks like my uncle's. He taught me how to sail when I was a kid....
It's Jake's actually...Our floating lab....
Oh, I didn't mean.... I'm being such a Grandma....
Come on, I'll show you around.
I didn't mean to start that....
Don't be such a Grandma...I was always climbing something....
You were a monkey....
All you all right?
I'm fine....
How are you doing?
Okay.
We haven't had a real talk, have we? We'll do that before I go.
I'll be all right, Michael.
Good. So will I....
Nothing out of the ordinary....
Once he locked himself in the bathroom and your grandfather had to get the ladder and climb in through the window....
I want you to give up your work....
Mom, please don't start that again....
You could teach...You could....
I'm not going to quit now....
You're all I have left...I don't want you going in the water....
You're having a good time....
I am.
I enjoy his company....
I don't like him chasing around after you...I don't trust him....
He's not chasing and I'm not running. And that's ridiculous....
I'm not going to bother you anymore about your work....
You're not a pain in the ass....
Will you let me finish. I've been working on this all day.
It's not easy. None of it is. I have to find some way to get on with my life and I'm going to try. I finally figured that out. I'm going to do my best....
Good.
That's it? Good...I thought you'd break out the champagne....
I'm pleased. I really am. Really....
No more sharks. I'll stay for another week, then....
You just got here....
Children are never satisfied. I have my house, my friends, my job...My life, Michael. I have to live it. Besides, I'll be back. Now show your mother what a good dancer you are.
It's late....
Trying to write our report....
You look tired....
I'm fine....
You and Sean used to make....
I have to get this finished.
I'm leaving in a few days. I don't want to do that with you unhappy....
I m not unhappy. Frustrated maybe... Discouraged a little. It'll work out....
I'm worried.. We haven't had our....
There's nothing to worry about....
I'm your mother. It's my job....
You looked just like your father... The first time the shark came to Amity....
I don't want to talk about that.
It's a terrible thing to know some thing no one else wants to believe.
I'm tired of hearing about it. There's no shark. Sean wasn't killed by the same shark.. Dad didn't die because of it...It's all wrong... Some fantasy you've concocted...You keep bringing it up.
You hungry?
No.
It got him....
Why'd you come out here?
Why'd you take the boat?
I want you all to come to Amity this summer.
There's a lot...I want to talk about it....
Promise me you'll be all right....
Promise me....
I'll wear my rubbers...I'll be careful ...I'll be....
We will...We'll have a lot of time together, Michael....
I'm going to finish what Jake and I started. I owe him that. Hell, I owe him everything.... I'll get something important done for both of us....
In a minute....
What's going on?
Yes!
You can stay in my room.
I'd like that. I need to be away from here.
Can I ride one sometime...?
It's too dangerous....
I never....
Where's the lady who brings the soda?
I like Grandma's cooking....
Thank you....
No, no...It's too dangerous....
Mommy lets me....
Your father was six then. Just like you....
I'm still five....
We have to dig it deep so the water will go all the way around...So we can swim to it....
You're silly....
You're coming, aren't you...?
Who's coming?
No one. Nothing. We've got to get this finished before the tide comes in.
It's not nice to be evasive.
What's it cost to take a ride on that plane...?
The water's coming in...The water's coming in....
I almost forgot....
I didn't.
I put everything in my room. My Teddy bear is joining us.
Thanks for the consultation....
I'll be in to read you a story.
Good night, Daddy....
I will. I'll miss you, Grandma.
I'll miss you....
Stop that....
Stop what?
That....
I'm not doing anything.
That hurt....
Serves you right. Will you please stop....
Can't help myself....
I see what you're doing....
I'm hungry, Mom....
Let me finish dinner before you eat it...Chop the peppers....
Are you all right?
Adds flavor....
We don't want any....
Hello? Thea who? I know it's Thea Brody. How many grandchildren do I have? I know you can use the phone by yourself. You're a big girl. I know you're five.
The fish. Check it....
You check it....
I'm on the phone....
Ask the big doctor about his work. Tough life you Bahamian beach bum... Playing in the water all day....
He heard that.
Good.
A big one....
A small one...Your brother won't be here....
Don't be late.
I won't....
Michael! This thing working?
You rigged it...You spent all that money on an education and you come back looking like this....
Michael!
We have three months of work and approximately no money left to support it....
Spent it all on beer....
Sweet breezes...Sweet women....
You have something to say about everything....
What the hell's it doing in warm water anyway...?
What difference does it make? It's here....
Get the bang sticks. We're going down.
Bang sticks are like yelling at it....
We're going down. All of us....
They won't kill it....
We'll divert it...We'll do something....
I hope the man knows what he's doing....
He knows what he has to do....
No cooking while you're here...No washing dishes...No cleaning....
I'm not on vacation....
It'll grow on you.
I like it. Really....
I could use a halfdozen more arms ...I've only got two weeks to get this thing finished....
Do you and Michael ever talk about his work...? About spending so much time working in the water?
Usually it's all he talks about...You mustn't worry....
I can't help it....
I used to worry...But you know what happens, you find out that scuba diving's safer than climbing into the bathtub....
I shouldn't interfere... My motherinlaw is so neat she puts paper under the cuckoo clock....
Henny Youngman....
You caught me....
You're not interfering, Ellen....
You want to try your hand at something...?
I'd be afraid of losing....
At least he doesn't have a beard....
Do you enjoy dealing blackjack?
All he did was kiss me....
It's beginning....
Beginning of what?
Whatever happens next.....
I always thought when I grew up I'd know what to do about things like this...I don't even know if he's serious....
Give it some time, Ellen...See what happens.
Part of me wanted to go off with him, the rest of me couldn't...I don't know why he wants me....
Maybe he's got good taste...I don't think he's spent much time with a woman like you....
I don't know what he thinks...I don't know what I think...I don't even know why I'm talking about it... It's silly...I'm getting too old for this sort of thing....
We will...We'll have a lot of time together. What are you going to do now?
We'll be there....
You make sure they come?
I bought him his first legal drink. He got so pissed that night....
He told me you both did....
He was such a goodnatured kid... Always going out of his way....
He was doing his job....
It was a piece of wood. A shitty piece of wood. It's not fair....
Where are you going?
Nowhere....
What do I think? I think it's a lovely idea....
Please, Mom. At least consider it. You should get away. You shouldn't be alone now....
I've always wanted to ride one of those....
No way....
Chicken....
Like mother, like son....
My mother always told me, if God had intended us to ride parachutes for fun, we'd have been born with free tickets....
It sure is good to be home....
It sure is....
She calls it, 'Tourist On The Loose.' Local government commissioned it. For the public beach....
We forgot to stop at the store.
Make a list.
We need milk....
Big unveiling ceremony in a couple of weeks....
We need beer....
I'll be right there.
I miss him, Matt. I still can't believe he's gone.
Tell Matt he should be here....
It doesn't take much to remember what day they come....
My brain is shrinking. There's only so much room.
Don't give me that preoccupied scientist crap. I'm trying to get ready for....
I thought artists worked with their subconscious....
How come it's my responsibility?
Because....
I take out the garbage, because...I'm glad we got that straightened out....
We don't have anything straightened out. You're uptight about something ...what's wrong?
Why should there be anything wrong? I'm sitting around the house, enjoying my day off and you start yelling at me about garbage....
What the hell are we arguing about?
I don't know...You...I don't know.
No fair, I'm not armed.
Then don't come any closer.
Turn it off....
No....
Off....
I have work....
I've always wanted to make love to an angry welder. I've dreamed of nothing else since I was a small boy.
Close the door.
They're at the beach....
Where have you been...?
What's wrong? What happened?
Thea was attacked by a shark....
The doctor said she should be all right...She's in shock....
But it went away...We would have known....
You knew...?
It went away....
Sweetheart....
She could have been killed...You knew and you didn't tell us...You let your mother think....
Where is she?
How could you do that? Your own daughter....
Where's my mother?
I don't know....
Why didn't you tell us? Why didn't you tell us?
I'm sorry. Please, Carla. I didn't think there was any danger. I'm sorry. I love you. Both of you.
You'll spoil her.
That's what grandmas are for.
Thea....
Sometimes my father puts me in his lap and lets me steer the Jeep.
Don't bother Hoagie....
It has its virtues. It hasn't fallen down yet....
Watch me, Grandma....
Come on, sweetheart....
But you always let me....
Not today. Come on, Thea....
Daddy, why can't I...?
Did you hear what I said? Come inside....
I don't want to. I want to swing....
You're welcome. I was the one who cried.
Was Uncle Sean ever bad? Did you ever spank him?
Only children are my favorites. That means you, MaGee....
My tea set. I got my tea set. Thank you....
Can I make sandwiches...?
Yes, you can make sandwiches....
You said it wasn't polite to interrupt people....
Yes, I did.
It's time for tea, Grandma.
We'll shoot this with an .18, boys.
That bugger moves fast.
Give me a 400foot magazine; we may be down there for a while.
I wouldn't mind going down with her.
She is a lovely bit of crumpet at that.
You want to show this?
Absolutely. The audience will stain their drawers. I did.
Hey, what's goin' on, little brother!
Damn! You sonuvabitch! Look at you!
Look great, don't I?
Got a job for me?
Yeah, we'll find something for you. Shoveling shark shit or something.
Sharks???
In a restaurant. You sit there and they swim around you.
... I'll go to McDonalds.
How'd you do in school?
Great. I got one B, two C's, and eight incompletes.
Hey, I'm proud of you, kid.
So was Dad.
Took it this morning.
He needs a haircut.
Yeah, right.
How is he? Still fighting crime?
Last week he broke up a major counterfeiting ring. Gang of kids were using slugs in the PacMan games.
Big bust! He confiscate their water pistols?
Booked them all at Baskin Robbins.
That's Dad...
He taught us good, though, didn't he, Sean? We were lucky to grow up the way we did.
Who's grown up?
Gee, it's good to see you!
I want to see Kathryn.
Just find your own. Like Dad says, there's plenty of fish in the sea.
Come on, let's go.
Something wrong?
You know Overman?
Okay, you two, have a good life without me. I gotta go.
Don't hurry back.
Mike, this is fantastic. I mean, you're responsible for building all this. What a job you've done! Maybe I'll quit school and come down here and work with you. Brody Brothers Construction. We've always wanted to do that together. Boat building.
It's not that easy. Worked construction every summer to get through school. Three years apprentice in the park's engineering department, and two years to build all this. Finish school first, Sean. Then make up your mind. If you still want to work with me, we'll have plenty of time.
You and Kathryn gonna stay here?
This company's expanding. They got parks in Texas, Ohio, California. I think I'm gonna be going to Waco.
Well, Dad asked me to ask you this, about the wedding. Is there any chance you and Kathryn will get married in Amity?
Tell Dad we're getting married in Las Vegas. In one of those chapels. He can meet us there.
Yeah, he'll really go for that.
It's all up to Kathryn. Amity's fine with me if it's fine with her.
She still talking to you?
We're in love.
Sure.
No, really. I've never met anyone like her before. This is it.
Yeah, right. That's what you said about Janet, and Beth, and Barbara 
Puppy love. This time it's real! We can have a double wedding.
What kind of trouble?
It's not closing, Mike.
That's impossible.
I know. But we show it's not closing.
Okay, okay... We'll get someone on it.
Let us know as soon as you have anything.
Right, Mike.
We see him, Mike. Between the stadium and the ski show island.
All right, hit those lights too.
Bring the crane over. Come down. Easy down.
Hey.
Hutton, how the hell did you get my crane?
Calvin said it was all right.
Yeah, well I didn't!
Well, we're not going to hurt it, old boy. I say, love, is Flipper ready to go?
Make sure you put this back.
Aww, can't I keep it?
You set that thing off down there, you don't know what will happen.
Precisely.
Watch it, Brody. You're ruining the shot.
Kind of dull in there for you, isn't it? Why don't you throw in another shark?
Your friend Overman picked a hell of a time to come back.
Yeah, poor bastard.
I lost a good cameraman in Australia last year. A Great White chopped him in half with one bite.
Hey, I don't want to hear.
That's how they do it, you know. Seizes its prey and shakes its body savagely. Teeth gnaw through a man like a buzz saw.
Buzz off.
I will, old boy, tomorrow. Our work is done here. Just came to say goodbye, and good luck.
Yeah? Well, in that case, have a drink.
Thanks. Bullshot.
So where you go off to, Hutton? Some expedition in New Guinea or Outer Mongolia?
No, South Georgia.
What the hell's there?
Polar bears.
Polar bears in Georgia???
South Georgia, Antarctica.
Oh...
The world's southern most reaches.
How come you're so brave with all this stuff?
Tradition. Royal sense of adventure that's been in my family for centuries. Dates back to the Crusades and King Richard. What I was born to do.
Yeah, tradition's a bitch, ain't it?
Reach for the limit I always say.
I'll remember that, my Lordship.
Actually, thirtyfive is probably more accurate.
That's impossible. If it's that big, why hasn't anybody seen it? Huh? Tell me that. It's like not seeing the Goodyear blimp in a swimming pool.
Filter system number four. Is it large enough?
It's large enough...
How far away is filter number four?
Five hundred yards.
You have a man near it?
After all, that's how you catch fish, isn't it?
You could also try a bamboo pole and a worm.
I'll go with you.
No way.
I'll stay out of your way. I won't interfere.
I'm sure you won't. But you're going to have to wait till we come up. Then you can film all you want.
He's big, Hutton. You never saw anything so big. Watch yourself.
Always do.
Did you see that?
What?
On monitor three. Was a glimpse of something.
That?
Yes, there is goes.
It's disappeared.
The space shuttle has landed!
Hold still, damn it!
What're you doing later?
Taking my boyfriend to the airport.
I thought I was your boyfriend.
I don't talk that way.
Remember, skiers stay up longer.
Shut up, Tod! Be serious!
I am serious.
Watch it, I'm gonna fall. I'm gonna go!
Balance, Kelly. Ballance!
Ahhh, ahhh...
Now what?
Gotta sneeze.
Don't you dare.
Can't help it... ahh...
Back, Kelly. Lean back!
Ohhhhh shhhhiiiit.
So, you just get here?
Yeah, from Boston.
I was seeing this guy off. He flew in from Dallas. Wants to marry me. He's okay, but Texans are so possessive.
Massachussettans aren't.
'Course they're also so rich.
... Massachussettans aren't.
How long you staying?
I don't know, it depends.
You like Florida?
I haven't seen that much, but so far it looks great.
Well, wait till you see the rest.
You gonna work at The Kingdom?
Depends on big brother.
I'm a waterskier.
Are you really?
Sure am.
That's too bad. I don't like water. I don't like being around in. I never go in it.
How come?
Goes back to when I was a kid. Mike's okay, he's gotten over his fears, but I haven't. I can't even drink it.
Well, I needed a cold shower.
Come on! Check this out!
This is where to be. High and dry.
And alone.
You were great out there!
Did you see me?! Wasn't I terrific?
As always.
Herpes?
Why you sonuvabitch...
Sean, do you have herpes?
No. Of course not. Don't listen to him. He's  he's... ... my brother.
Besides that.
I don't know, what else is there?
I know! We can take the gondola ride!
The one that goes underwater?
Yes, it's great!
No, Kelly, I don't want to...
Come on, it's fun!
Not for me. I don't go in the water, remember?
You're not in the water. You're in a gondola.
No, think of something else.
Sean, this is ridiculous. You're acting very immature.
I'm not acting! I don't want to go in it, okay?
Isn't this fun!
Can hardly wait to do it again.
Told you you'd like it.
Now what's this do?
Goes up.
No... It can't be.
What, hon?
Let's go, let's go!
It's okay, Sean.
Take it up.
He's diving!
Take it up!
SEAN!
Give me a ride?
Sure.
'Preciate it.
Musclehead?
He's missing.
Hope with none of my girl friends.
Kelly, could you look after Sean for a while? Show him around for me?
Sure. No problem.
Thanks.
Sean. Sean, where are you?
Someone's looking for you.
Hi, Mike.
How you doing, Kelly?
I'm NeoSenephrened out. Think I'm catching a cold.
Better than catching Sean's herpes.
I think they'll come out now.
They still seem nervous.
I know.
He's a young one.
And big for his age.
When did this happen?
Ten minutes ago.
I knew it; it's my fault. We moved it too soon.
Don't blame yourself.
I should have never listened to Calvin.
No one's ever done it before. It was a good try...
Not good enough.
We got it to live for ten hours. That's some kind of record.
Go where?
On the telly. We're to film him for the evening news.
Nobody told me.
I just did. Can you make them do tricks?
They're not tricks. They're behavior patterns.
Fine. Have them do some.
I don't know. They're nervous and skittish right now.
Yes, aren't we all.
Okay now. Have Flipper flip or something.
Make this quick!
It's no use. They won't come into the lagoon.
Well then, can you have them jump to the camera over here?
Wait a minute. These aren't kangaroos, Mr. Hutton. They're dolphins.
I thought they were clever.
I can have them walk backwards.
No, no. That won't do.
I told you, something's upset them.
Well, I have to get this into the networks. If you can't do it, you can't do it, that's all.
I'm sorry.
Well, we'll just try again, dear. Keep working on it. Maybe you'll get it one of these years. Pack up, boys. Flipper's a flop.
Unhappy combination. Most likely one's inside the other.
Sharks are manbiters, Mister Hutton. Not maneaters 
That's a load of codswopple. A Great White doesn't fear man. It doesn't fear beast. It's an orgy of food and blood.
I think we can capture it. I'd like to try.
That's preposterous!
You can get killed!
I've handled sharks before. Bigger than this one.
Calvin, let me go down there and kill the bastard.
No!
It'll chop up half a million dollars of your tropical fish in two minutes.
Calvin, I insist I be allowed to capture it!
Three hundred million years of evolution have created the greatest butcher the world's ever known.
It's one of the world's greatest creatures.
A shark could have a hundred embryos in its sack. You know how many are born? Maybe five. They eat each other before birth! They're born killers!
The only Great White in captivity, Calvin. All those people standing in line...
I will.
Well, then I'm going to film it.
Like hell!
Make a lovely item for "Good Morning, America"
I want that shark alive.
So do I, love.
You look like an orange worm.
Shark bait. Draws them over for closeups.
What in hell is that?
Lunch for Whitey. Something to munch on in case things get dicey.
We're taking that shark alive!
Let's hope he knows that.
I know it and I will not go down into this lagoon as long as you carry that!
Why?
Because I don't trust you, that's why.
I insist you get rid of that bomb.
Afraid I can't do that.
You're supposed to film it, not turn it to hash!
Look, Doctor, this isn't one of your pet porpoises we're after. It's a torpedo of muscle. Murderous expertise! I've seen bleeding sharks try to eat themselves! Don't be so concerned about them. Worry about yourself.
How's sleeping beauty?
Still sleeping.
Kiss him, maybe he'll turn into a frog.
Should be coming out of it soon.
Just watch it when he does.
Could be a new dance... Walking the Shark.
Thanks for helping.
Not at all.
Why are you?
I like it when they wake up.
So do I. But for different reasons.
And I like you.
You were quite daring in capturing him. Very skillful indeed.
Skillful? I missed my first shot.
Some miss all their shots.
Somebody could have gotten hurt.
That's what life is, Doctor. Full of chances to hurt yourself, or somebody else.
You're a strange man, Mr. Hutton.
Philip.
Before, you were ready to feed this shark a hand grenade. Now you're helping to nurse it back to life.
That's because I am the shark.
We're all from the sea, Mr. Hutton. Our destiny is linked to the fate of the oceans. By continuing to destroy fish, man destroys himself.
The grenade's just to intimidate Whitey. He knows I have it, so he watches out. Same is true when I film lions, tigers, rhinos...
I think that you and I are natural enemies.
And here I thought I was charming you.
Hello. I think his nap's over.
Get ready to go.
Believe me, I am.
Brian, he's coming around!
Well, Doctor. You've got your shark.
Thanks to you.
Sharks have to keep moving. They can never stop or they'll suffocate. If water isn't always flowing through them, they'll die.
Is there such a place? A cave or something with such a flow?
I've heard of a White that big, in Australia...
How'd it get in here?!
He's big as a bloody bus!
The water ski show! We have to get them out!
We can assume he's back in the water intake passage.
She, Mister Hutton.
He. She. Let's blow the bitch up!
A piece of pie on Sunday.
The net would have to be secured by the intake passage.
Thank you.
Want another one?
Well, not much longer to go.
What is it, 97 days?
Till this opens, not our wedding.
Hope I make it through both.
You will. I'll see to it.
Look, Kathryn. They're jealous.
They're acting very strange suddenly.
Preopening jitters.
I guess.
Damn it. I can't understand! I gotta go, hon.
Don't forget you have your brother.
Yeah.
See you later.
That macho pompous English 
Don't let him get you. Just continue your patterns and pretend he's not around.
My imagination isn't that good.
Honey, I gotta go.
Okay, bye.
You called, Doctor?
Everything's going wrong. I'm having more trouble with Bobby than I ever have before. I can't get him to respond.
How come?
I don't know. I can't understand it. Something's bothering them.
And what else is bothering you?
... Hutton. He really pisses me off.
Yeah, you really don't like him.
I don't like what he does.
It's his work.
He doesn't need the money. He inherited a fortune. He kills for kicks. TV battles between nonpredator fish and divers. The diver always wins.
Okay, forget him now. I'm going to pick up Sean. Take a ride?
I can't leave now. We taking Sean out?
Sure. Want to try that new Italian place?
No, you don't need all that starch. You're getting too fat.
Not enough loving.
Get out of here!
They're coming with us?
We play hide and seek all the time. They find a lot of things.
Where's the rubber band?
Look, Michael... you don't have to come.
I don't have a choice.
What do I do now?
Take a deep breath and hold it.
That's cute, Kathryn. Real cute.
Just put your mask on.
Honey... you all right?
No.
Are you scared?
Yes.
Damn it!
Hi, baby.
Baby goddamn scared me to death!
They just wanted to say hello.
... Friggin' fish.
Let's head to the gate and work our way back.
That's a lot of ground to cover.
I know, I built it. I've just never seen it this way.
It's romantic down here.
Oh, yeah. Very.
You know, on our honeymoon, we should go scuba diving.
Let's not talk about that now, okay?
What's wrong?
Nothing.
... If nothing's wrong, why are we stopping here?
... Electrical connection malfunctioning.
You sound like Houston Mission Control. What the hell does it mean?
That we swim.
Swim where? Out there? Oh, no, forget it, not me! You go, I'm staying.
Michael, the sub's dead.
Yeah, and so will I be if I start swimming in that blackass jungle.
Okay, stay. We'll come back for you.
Where are you going?
Up.
And leave me down here???
Make up your mind.
What mind? If I had a mind, I'd never have let you talk me into this.
I talked you into this?
I'd have fallen in love with a pilot or a mountain climber.
Are you coming...?
No, I don't want to leave now. I'm having too good a time... Of course I'm coming! You'd think you're gonna leave me?
You would, wouldn't you? I'd end up whale shit, you wouldn't care.
Get your reserve bottle and let's go.
You all right?
I think so. I'm not sure... Are you?
I'm okay.
Michael...
It's all right, baby. We're safe...
How the hell did it get in here?
God, they're horrible. I hate them. Did you see its eyes? How black they are? The look in them?
Don't think about it. It's over.
It's never over... Here comes another six years of bad dreams.
You're going down there again?
Yes.
After what happened to us?
I know I can capture it.
Kathryn, you're crazy. Really crazy. A suicidal maniac.
Oh, yeah. Really nice. Who's your designer? Sassoon Shark?
I got it on sale. A real steel.
Here.
What's that?
Bracelets.
Fine piece of engineering.
Should protect you a little, from the compression. If that thing gets ahold of you.
Thank you.
Kathryn...
Yes?
Wouldn't this whole thing be a little safer in the daytime?
It's easier to lure sharks at night.
Why? 'Cause they're hungrier?
Change your mind?
No.
You amaze me. I'm more scared than you.
No, you're not.
I can use a shot of what he's got.
... Me, too.
After this has opened, when everything's settled down, you and I are going away. Just the two of us. No dolphins, no sharks, no whales, no penguins. Just you and me.
Sounds wonderful.
We'll go to Palm Springs, Death Valley, Arizona desert, anyplace where there's no water.
You want me to stay?
Get some sleep. And tell Sean I'm sorry.
Sean, that's right...
Finally.
How's your patient?
Recovering nicely.
Me, too.
Mmmm... you smell good.
You don't.
It's my new perfume. Great White, the ManEater.
They said you'd be here.
What's up?
I need more pressure in the shark tank.
Okay.
I want to make sure the White is getting enough flow. Would you do that for me?
Sure. Let's go.
No, we'll go through here.
... Mean through the tubes?
Yes. It's faster.
No, I'm not going through there.
Michael, come on, don't be silly. This is the quickest way. You're not going to walk all the way around?
I'm not going to walk through that shark arcade.
They're not going to hurt you. They're encased in plastic.
I don't want to see them, Kathryn.
Michael, I don't have time. Please! It's time you dealt with this and got over it. Now come on!
Calvin wants me to move the White for tomorrow.
... He ought to put him in here.
It's too soon to move him.
So tell Calvin.
I did. He wants it on exhibit.
Well, that's why you got it.
Honey, what is it?
Hydrophobia...
Michael, take deep breaths.
I have to get out of here.
Come on.
I can't take water, Kathryn.
Yes, you can.
I can't! My dad had it, and I don't know if you can inherit it or what, but I got it, and I hate it. I can't stand it!
Put it under your pillow and sleep on it and the tooth fairy will 
It's a shark's tooth!
So?
It was removed from Charlie Overman's body.
What's the big deal? A shark got Overman, and we got the shark.
That's just it, Michael. We don't!
What do you mean, we don't?
This tooth is from another shark. A shark that could be 30 feet long!
Thirty feet???
That's what I've come to ask you. Is there any large place that has a strong current of water flowing?
I don't understand.
What did you just say before? About water flowing through them?
That's why they're always moving. They have to have it.
You wanted to know about a cave?
Somebody better get down there!
It's all controlled from the Control Room.
Come on!
You two go! I'll call Calvin!
How is he?
Couple of fractures, lacerations. They say he's gonna be all right.
... I have to go, honey. Phillip and I are going down together to kill the shark.
... Okay.
That's right.
Who's going to do it?
Me.
Michael, you're not going down there.
I am. You're not.
But you 
It's a construction job. I'm the only one that can do it.
Michael, you don't have to go down there.
I want that shark, Kathryn.
You don't have to prove anything.
Only to myself.
Are you okay?
I'm fine.
Aren't you suiting up, mate?
No.
Well, don't worry about your fiancee. We'll watch over her.
She can take care of herself. She doesn't need you.
Never know down there. Helps to have a friend, sometimes.
How many sharks have you killed?
Me? I don't know. Twenty, thirty. I love them, think they're the greatest.
It's Miller time!
You buying?
Sure am.
Coming with us? Overman's buying.
You see the threequarter socket?
Yeah. Down there.
Shit.
I don't understand. Overman's too good a diver to disappear.
Have you checked the bars? The guy's irresponsible; he's done this before.
I'll need more men to look.
Can't help you, Mike. Don't have the manpower.
We're going to have to cover the entire lagoon.
I know, but you're just going to have to find another way. So you better start.
What you're saying is we have a Great White shark in the lagoon.
And a missing man.
What's your plan, Brody?
It's easy. Put a net on the derrick. Put the net in the water by the intake passage. Turn off the intake passage. Shark comes out into the net and is hauled up.
Go on, Doctor.
No one's ever caught a Great White except indirectly in fishing nets. I want to dart it and keep it alive.
It would make a marvelous attraction; the only Great White in captivity.
I can get it.
Absolutely. Good idea.
With those camera lights and...
He's going with you, Doctor.
No, it will be too much distraction. I don't want that many people in the water. I'll go in, give it a belly shot, and get out.
And Philip will be there to film it. Now that's the end of it!
We're ready for you.
I have to walk him till the drug wears off.
Why don't you take a rest, Brian?
I'm only walking him. You caught him. You have to be exhausted.
Go on, you're tired.
No, I'm fine, thanks.
It hasn't adjusted.
Get the hose! We've got to force more water through the gills and oxygenate him!
Don't feel bad.
Okay... Have them get it out of the tank.
And if you have any questions about recreational possibilities, Ellen Brody here will be happy to answer them.
Len, can I see you a minute?
I think we got a couple of live ones.
Brody's riding his tower.
Oh, shit.
Wave to my son.
How the hell do we get him down. from there?
Maybe nobody will notice. Let's get them back in the bus.
Oh, my God....
What the hell is he doing?
You should've been out there. You should've seen him waving that gun, like a maniac. There were shots fired!
He thought he had a good reason.
Larry, I'm a businessman, trying to make a buck like anybody else.
So? So?
So it can't be done like that. The man's a menace, plain and simple.
Look, what am I supposed to do? It's done, it's over. We have to deal with the consequences.
Be reasonable, please....
Forget it, he won't listen.
I don't need you. Andy's here.
You always go with Andy.
How was dive class?
Do I have to play with the little kids?
Yeah. Go on, beat it.
I want Fruit Loops!
Eat Cheerios.
You eat Cheerios. I want Fruit Loops.
You're going out.
Yeah.
You're going sailing.
Maybe.
Take me.
No.
I want to go with you!
Quiet! Shhh!
Michael....
Okay, okay. Close your door.
Look  if you're going to get in the way, you can just go home.
I'm not in the way. Andy, am I in the way?
Yeah.
Would you take him?
I don't think she's such hot stuff.
When are we going out? You and me?
Not tonight.
You going with Patrick?
Who wouldn't.
Anyone want to go the lighthouse?
They're turning around.
Coming about, then.
Faster! Faster!
Coming about....
Mike and Larry are racing! Loser goes home alone!
If we beat them, they can both go home stag! SingleO! Alone! Jackie can come back in this boat!
What about me?
Uh. Well. Maybe you could give Polo a hand going in....
Your ass I will. Besides, the wind's turning with the tide. Sailing back is going to be a bitch.
Heading back?
Might as well.
He's got to help or it won't work.
Sean, baby, please....
What's the lighthouse?
It's an island, near here, with a lighthouse. We sometimes hang out there, you know....
Great. I got some wine.
Too hot tor those two? I can't believe it.
Is there something I don't know about?
We'll be over by the lighthouse.
I'll be right there. Wait up.
I'd like to go out to the light house with you.
I'm not sure I can.
It'll be fun, come on!
Maybe you and Brooke could come over to the town beach....
No way. Everybody's going sailing. If you don't want to take me, just say so.
That's not it. My dad told me not to go.
You do everything your parents tell you?
No.
Good. I'll be on the dock at eight. Eight o'clock, everybody!
I thought you were grounded.
I can go out if I want to.
That's fun! Let's race for some thing!
Name it.
I don't care.
I love it.
What's wrong?
We're fighting wind and current. I though we'd be out longer, catch the incoming tide.
Rich or poor, it's nice to have money.
Figure they split?
Happens every season  someone takes off. Once we had a schooner for a month while the owners went fox hunting.
How much longer?
Until we find something.
I don't care about the overtime, I'm hungry. And cold. And most of all, bored.
About damn time.
What the hell is it?
What is it?
Power line.
Oh, great.
It comes here from Cable Junction.
Untangle it and let's go  We don't need a blackout on the island.
Now you're talking. Let's get out of here before we do find something.
Right after, the Kids went out?
What Kids? Who went out?
All of them. Mike, Junior Vaughn, Brookie Peters, Pat, Lucy  all that whole gang.
Mike? Our Mike?
Yep. Looked like they were headed to the lighthouse.
Mrs. Brody, look  if he can't go, then you can't go. Neither of you can go.
I'm going.
Hurry, please.
What the hell, they can't fire both of us  someone's got to be in charge, right? Which way are we going?
Be careful....
Anything?
Take a break for a minute, okay?
Huh?
Eddie, can we do that? Can we go skiing? We can use my Uncle's boat. Eddie?
Next week.
With you, everything's next week. I want to go skiing soon. Tomorrow?
Come on back up here!
Nope.
Give me back my hat!
Double nope!
You want to tack, or just leave her pointed up like this?
Just like this.
What about sailing?
The tide's running. It'll take us to the light.
It'll take us to Budapest if you're not careful.
What about the others?
They'll be there when we get there. Might even have a fire started.
What're we going to do in the mean time?
I dunno. We'll think of something.
But first, a little juice....
And second?
Mmmmmm.
Wait a minute. Promise me something.
Anything. Anything.
That you'll put down a blanket. I've got black and blue marks all over my butt, and my Mom's getting uptight about them.
You got it.
Anyone know what time it is?
3:30.
Maybe it's gone.
They tend to follow moving things. Maybe it's following Polo and Timmy.
By 7:46, when the tide turns around, we'll be twenty miles out. More, with this wind.
Shut up.
I can't stop thinking!
The wind drift is lateral.
What's that mean?
Sideways  For every yard we go this way, we also slide sideways this way....
Get a dance yet?
Nope.
Me neither.
Who'd you ask?
Tina Wilcox.
You're crazy. She's Ed's girl friend.
Doesn't hurt to ask. Sometimes the most beautiful girls are the loneliest.
That's a crock of shit.
I know.
No class.
None at all. I wonder what the Brebner twins are doing tomorrow night.
That's what I want  a gaff rig.
Gaff rigged? Why not a staysail schooner? Go anywhere. Look at this  the Mayan, an Alden schooner.
Did you ever see a dolphin?
Sure. They like to play. We may see some today.
Great!
Whoops, almost lost one. Can't play with the dolphins without skis....
Ready?
Hang on, hang on...Okay, go.
Terry! You okay?
Help! Help!
Okay, okay, coming....
How old is your cousin?
Seventeen. She's a senior.
I'm not crazy about blind dates.
My cousin will be here tomorrow.
Great.
You're not going out right away, are you?
Waiting for Andy.
I want you to meet my cousin.
I will, I will.
She just likes to tease. I think she really likes you.
Great.
Mike! Are you going out?
Maybe.
Is that me?
That's you.
I've never been supercargo.
The lighthouse is a makeout spot.
Now I really want to see it.
You going to fool around with Mike? Well, I'm not doing anything with him.
I told you, remember?
Oh, yeah. So why aren't they doing it now?
What's wrong?
Tide doesn't turn for three hours.
It killed her. It ate her.
Shh. Shhh....
We're going to die.
It's all right, we're okay.
Mom, Michael won't talk to me.
Shouldn't he be at home?
Can I go swimming?
No. Find your brother, okay?
Some people.
What's daddy doing?
Can I go with you today?
You stay with Mrs. Silvera, Tootsie. Okay?
Hi Dad.
Hiya yourself.
Hang on!
Dad! Dad!
I'm okay, baby, I'm here. It's okay....
They made me go with them.
Sure they did....
Affirmative. Can you get your chopper airborne?
104, in a few minutes. He's down checking a buoy in the Bay Channel.
Get him the hell over to Amity Point, the old lighthouse. Right now.
What for?
There's a bunch of Kids daysailing that way. Turn them back to port.
That's it?
That's it. Just do it, all right?
104, soon as I can raise him.
If they're not at the light, look for them. I don't want them out there. Get them back to port!
Affirmative, affirmative. Turn the Kids daysailing back to port. I heard you. Patrol out.
Harbor Air, do you read? Over?
Brody? This is Patrol Base.
Where the hell is Air One?
That's what I'd like to know. Lost transmission at Cable Junction.
Did he raise the Kids?
Last transmission said ten juve niles.
Yeah? Then what?
Then nothing. If you see him, tell him to switch to an operational frequency, or give me a status report yourself.
Did you say Cable Junction?
That's what he said.
When?
1530 hours. Might still be there. Base out.
Hello, hello. It went well, I thought.
Very impressive ceremony. Good speech.
Thank you, thank you. You know my son, don't you?
I'm showing summer rentals. We got a helluva season going.
We have got to talk, and we have got to talk alone.
We're alone.
Larry, I don't know how to say this, but I think we got a shark problem. A real one.
Are you serious?
Of course. Look  I've got some missing persons, fatalities, evidence of a large predator....
No one has seen a shark  no fin, no bites, nothing. Be realistic.
I got a feeling. I have to act on it  you can understand that, can't you?
Of course I can, but can't it wait? These things cost money, and this town doesn't have much money.
We have to do something.
We have done something  hell, we damn near went broke putting up a shark watch tower on the beach  it's the only one in 2000 miles, y'know.
I know, I know....
And I stood by while you told the people from Ramada and Marriott that if they put up a hotel they'd need $800,000 worth of steel net around their beaches! In New England? We all lost on that one.
It's still a good idea.
Martin, when we build up our tax base a little, you can have every thing you want; right now, the town's broke.
Please, Larry  there's good reason. Those water skiers....
A tragedy. But that was a boating accident; no bites, no sharks, nothing but a boating accident.
Two of them are still missing!
There's always deaths in these waters that never turn up. Are they all shark victims?
Maybe they are!
Bullshit.
Bullshit? I'll give you bullshit  there's a dead whale out there with bites all over it!
What am I, an ass? When you called me, I called Elkins, and her bosses. Nothing she saw is proof of anything.
Someone has to do something.
Don't push it this time. If you do, it won't turn out the way you want, I guarantee you that.
Thank God you guys were all together. I got something for you. Proof!
Martin, this is kind of an official meeting
Perfect. Look at this 
Chief  the Board of Selectmen has a question only you can answer.
What?
Martin, it could be anything.
What the hell does it take to make sense to you numbskulls? Jesus, it's right there in front of you. I know what a goddamn shark looks like, I've been through it, don't you understand? I've seen this sonofabitch before!
Martin, could you wait here for a few minutes while we make up our minds about something?
Go ahead, whatever it's worth.
Where the hell were you?
Late.
I can see that. Don't you know this is a big deal?
Do I have to talk to those two?
My boss and your boss. Sure.
Can you take a little time out from your busy schedule to dance with the old man?
Why?
Because they're playing our song.
Remember 1959, the Jersey shore?
And how. I thought you wouldn't respect me.
I did, I did.
Listen  what are you doing later?
Fooling around?
Right.
Let's get the kid home.
Home it is.
Mmmm.
MMMmmmorning....
Sean's awake.
Door's locked.
Good.
Mrs. Silvera?
Mrs. Silvera.
Need a ride?
As far as the office.
Hey! That's my boss!
Better yet.
You have to smoke so early in the morning?
It's good with coffee.
So's a donut.
Eat Cheerios.
What're you guys doing today?
Where's my day book?
In the den.
Why don't you take a half day and clean this junk up?
Because, I'm in the middle of a boating accident, I got only four regular cops and one secretary, and a Chief Deputy who is constantly fiddling with the police boat He's another one.
One what? Ahha!
Boat nut. What is it about this place that makes everyone a freak for boating?
It's an island. Got to run.
Thank you. I'll tell him.
For me?
Sort of  Mathew Hooper is aboard the research vessel Aurora, presently in the Antarctic Ocean, and won't be in radio range until halfpast next spring.
Damn.
Oh, hi  How was dinner?
Oh, perfect  a 75 per cent family affair. Where were you?
Santos' place.
Oww!
Careful. What's wrong?
Nothing.
Nothing, huh?
That's what I said. Is there any of that hand cleaner stuff?
Use the little brush there. Why were you at Santos'?
Found one of the missing victims from that boat deal.
Oh. Want to talk about it?
No.
Terrific.
All summer?
He wanted a job, he's got one. I want to see that boat out of the water by tomorrow night.
I know what you're going to say.
Do you?
In the city, it happened all the time  some Kid o.d.'s on a rooftop, top, a drunk gets cut in pieces under the Brooklyn local, old people die alone in shitty apartments and three weeks later someone calls the cops because of the smell and the flies. Call the cops. What are we, immune?
It was bad, wasn't it.
The goddamn smell is always the same.
Are you going to be able to sleep?
Yeah. I think so. Mike! Keep it down, for chrissake!
Hi. I closed a sale today, without Len. That's $1200 commission, if the papers go through.
That's great.
Sean's asleep.
That's great too. Gorgeous.
What's wrong?
Ooohh, nothing. I just got fired, that's all.
What?
What'd I say?
That you were fired.
Then that's what I meant. Fired. Canned. Out on my fanny. The Selectmen just made Hendricks the new Chief of Police. Just like that.
Because of today? The beach?
No sweat. A blessing in disguise. Back to the city, you can go to Bloomingdale's without waiting six hours for the ferryboat...we're surrounded by water here, you realize that? Me, surrounded by water...Ridiculous.
Stop that! We're not going any place. You love it here. Tell me what the hell happened!
Showed them the photo, showed them the goddamn Shark, big as life. They didn't see it. Not like me. Not like the poor sonofabitch who snapped this li'l picture...He's out there, somewhere... I shot off my gun, shot off my big mouth, so they fired me....
Honey, this is nothing...I don't know what it is. What did they....
...Everybody wants the job. No one wants the authority. Except Hendricks. Fine. He can go out there in that precious boat, and when he looks whitey in his big mouth he can just call me. Call me in New York...tell him to kiss my ass....
They have no right to treat you like that. You've given them every thing. For four years, you've protected this town, the people on this island....
Fired me! I'm not a hysterical man. I'm responsible. I know what I saw....
I know you did....
I try. Goddamnit, I tried...Now, I'm tired...I can't keep fighting it...I'm too tired...I'm...I'm....
What're you going to do today?
Turn in the car. Clean my desk, explain things to our sons, then maybe get shitfaced and punch your boss.
I'll give notice.
Don't rush into it  we may need the income.
Hey  it's not your job any more. I'm going to be late for work.
Just one minute....
What're you doing?
Going out.
What is it? What's the matter?
Mike's out there.
As soon as I heard about it, I called you. This thing is big! His arms indicate big.
After we've looked, we'll talk.
Look at that:
First things first.
Length, 22 feet, 8 inches.
Come on, let's check the bite radius.
The what?
Bite radius. You know, the size of the mouth?
The whale's mouth?
The Shark's mouth.
What shark?
The shark that did this. It was a shark, wasn't it?
We don't know that, do we?
But that's what we're here to find out, right?
You don't tell me my job, and I won't tell you about yours, okay?
Could be a shark. But maybe not.
Look, I know a little bit about sharks.
Do you?
I know that this was probably a Great White Shark. Carcadon... Caradan....
Carcharadon Carcharias.
That's it.
Okay, so that's it.
Is there one in these waters?
What makes you think there might be?
Because this big fish has been bitten by some other big fish....
This is a mammal, not a fish.
Jesus, don't quibble with me. I want to know if a Great White Shark did this.
Probably.
That's it? Probably? Look, sharks are attracted by blood, and thrashing around....
And sound.
Sound?
Sound. Like sonar, or radar. They home in on irregular sounds, unusual sounds, any rhythmic low frequency vibration.
So there's one around here.
Not necessarily. These wounds could've been inflicted 30 miles out to sea, or more. None of them are immediately fatal. Currents could've carried the body 10 miles further.
It's either a Great White, or another killer whale.
Can't you tell?
Not when it's like this. This animal has been ashore for 10, 12 hours, and drifting for a day, at least. Every little nibbler in the sea's taken a bite.
Look  can Great White Sharks communicate? Send out signals, or something? You know, take revenge, sense an enemy....
Don't be ridiculous  Sharks don't take things personally.
Fantastic lady. Don't know what I'd do without her.
Me neither.
Y'know, Brody  for the first time in years it's worth putting money into this town.
All of us thank you, okay?
May I have this dance?
Sorry, I'm all booked up... Come, m'dear.
Wait a minute....
Too late, it's written.
Heck of a way to treat a taxpayer. Don't you have any pull with the chief, here?
Is Jeff Hendricks qualified to fill in as an interim Chief of Police in your absence?
Temporarily? Uh...sure....
It came up during the meeting.
Look  I just got this from Phil Fogarty. It was in the camera belonging to the missing divers. It proves I was right, all along.
What are you all, blind? It's a shark. Look  teeth, jaw, gills.
Is that what it is?
You're damn right that's what it is.
What have you seen before? This is nothing. Seaweed. Mud. Some thing in the lens.
My ass!
There is nothing to discuss.
Will you listen to this man? Will you just listen to him? You really caused a panic on a public beach, you shoot up the place, God knows who could've been injured  what if somebody de cides to sue us? That could ruin us.
Is that what it is? Dollars? Money? I'll pay for it. Take it out of my salary.
You don't make enough.
Maybe I don't make as much money as some bullshit ripoff artists around here, but I don't work the same way.
What's that supposed to mean?
It means I don't like all that grabass and heavy breathing with my wife, it means I know who's out to screw me here, and it means that I know something none of you know because I've been there  and I don't want to go through that horror again. Ever!
I don't know what you did, but that kid stopped. I haven't heard one peep, not one 'breaker breaker' for days. Believe me, it's a pleasure....
You said something about a camera.
Sure, sure  Jeff Hendricks brought in this camera, see, from underwater, and I didn't know how to get it open, but my brotherin law, in Montauk, he works at a hi fi store, and they sell cameras, so he....
Did you get any pictures?
Well, yeah, I did, that's the funny thing. You can't tell much from the negatives, I was going to blow 'em up. Here's a test I did....
Not bad  that's a real fast lens, probably 1.4. Look at the diffusion, though....
What else you got?
Let's see  you got a minute?
Come on, Phil, don't jerk me around.
Okay, okay  stand over there....
Where to?
No place special. Just hanging out.
Sailing?
I don't know about him  I'm going down to the dock, maybe go sailing.
Every day?
What else is there to do?
You could work out at the beach, make a few bucks for school.
Do I have to?
You'll have to make up your own mind about that.
I'm going.
What about tennis? Riding? fixing up old cars? Bartending?
Bartending? I'm 17.
Okay, not bartending. Why on the water every day?
Because.
Look, humor the old man  just be careful.
I'll be careful. I'll see y'later.
Don't go out if it's rough or any thing, huh? We've had a lot of trouble.
Okay, okay.
You stay here a minute.
Oh, c'mon.
You heard me.
Pop....
You stay right here. You're going in with me.
Is Hooper coming to dinner?
Not till next year.
Michael.
Yeah?
You want to come here a minute?
I got something for you to do tomorrow.
I kind of had plans....
Sailing? Forget it. You're beached. Grounded. No more boats.
Hey, come on....
No backtalk! I spoke to Upton, at the beach, and he's got a job for you there. You can work until school starts.
Mike? Is that you?
Pop. I'm sorry.
It's okay. What happened?
I passed out, but I'm okay.
At least you're safe. What about the others?
Jesus, don't freeze on me. What about the others?
Sean's still out there.
What?
Dad, I'm sorry....
Stay here. Don't go anywhere. Just stay here.
Good morning!
Aren't you offduty?
Till noon. This is on my own time. Hi, Shorty.
On your own time?
Happy to do it.
Then check it out. I'll be in the office.
Chief....
Hendricks. I want to go over your reports and your Form 908.
I never heard of a 908.
I just made it up. It means, "Get me out of there." What the hell's that?
Diver's camera. Tom Andrews brought it up from under that abandoned cruiser.
Abandoned? It's a little early in the season for that.
Rich people. Home port is Newport, Rhode Island.
If I had a $100,000 boat, I sure as hell wouldn't leave it anchored alone in the channel.
If you had a $100,000 boat there'd be an investigation.
We got a helluva tide this month.
Could you just keep that crowd back, please?
Chief?
In here.
I missed you at the funeral home. Santos said you were here.
You didn't miss much. Christ, what a mess.
Positive I.D.?
The woman passenger on the boat that blew up.
Oh.
What about that camera?
What camera?
That one  from the wreck. You brought it up, did you look inside it?
Well, what the hell  might be something worth seeing. Take it somewhere and see if there's film in it....
If there is, develop it!
You got it.
I know just where to go.
Not the drugstore!
Of course not, They're closed. Phil Fogarty's place. He'll do it for me.
The drugstore's closed? What the hell time is it?
Ninethirty, ten maybe.
Shit  I'm late for dinner... Close up, okay?
Oh yeah  I'm expecting a long distance call, very important. Give them my home phone.
Right.
How long ago?
About an hour, maybe two. Let's see  I came on about eight....
I can't let you take her out.
You can't stop me.
Mike's out there.
But I signed for the boat. You' re not authorized any more.
Untie that rope.
Please. It's my job.
You're too close. Back off.
Goddamnit, Hendricks, untie the rope there.
I'm going out there.
Hey  you can't do that.
About 10 degrees off your star board bow, take a heading leeward of Sand Island, and lay her north by northeast....
Never mind that shit. Just point.
See where Cable Junction is? Look to the left. The lighthouse. That's it.
Got it.
Chief Brody  can we go? Please?
Oh, yeah. Sure.
Tina!
Noooooo....
It's okay, it's okay. What's the matter? Tina? Honey? Hey 
No! It's still there!
What is it? What's there?
It's still there!
I need a hand here....
Coming up!
Gangway, Turkies!
I thought you said she was going with us?
Let's just go sailing, okay?
Want to talk about it?
Want to swim home?
You coming up on him?
You bet. Hang on....
How're we going to do that floating on this garbage...?
Anyone got another set of sails?
Hey!
Over here!
Sean! Catch the rope!
The rope! The rope!
We're hung up here. Snagged.
Can you get us a line?
We're carrying weight.
We'll take your supercargo.
Coming up! Give way!
Like hell! We're on the starboard tack!
Loser sails home alone.
You're betting what you already got.
As soon as you get us on the island, you got to call in. My dad's the mayor....
There's a shark....
Throw it.
Sean! Catch it!
I don't know.
What the hell, we're steering for it.
Where're we going?
Oh, out a ways. Maybe the lighthouse.
Goddamn it, Sean, you listen to me or I will kick your ass, do you hear me?
Listen to Andy, Sean.
We're throwing a rope and you better catch it, hear?
But we had it! We were headed right for it!
Shit. Shit, shit, shit!
But the island!
The Shark.
They're okay, if they got little white canes and tin cups.
That's awful.
What the hell. Did your mom put all this together?
Same as always  glubglub, bubblebubble, strokestroke. There sure is some weird shit on the bottom of the ocean.
Shells and lobsters and stuff?
Mostly old garbage. Today we found a '48 Hudson.
Over here. I want you to meet somebody.
Lucky. Lucky, lucky, lucky.
The lighthouse?
No big thing, we'll see who's out there, maybe picnic.
Why'd they decide to move?
Too hot in the lighthouse?
What is it?
We're hung up on something.
Yeah, it's her job.
Is she responsible for the punch?
No.
Good. It's terrible.
Who's that? Quick  I'm in love.
I hope that's the cousin.
Maybe by now they are.
They're moving pretty fast.
If you're beached, why are we doing this? For practice?
Yeah.
Then why are we futzing around the dock? We can make a few bucks working at the beach.
Why not?
I could give you a dozen good reasons.
Shut up.
Okay, okay, don't say I didn't remind you.
Turkeys! Eat wind!
Yeehah!
Your dad must be really pissed.
We better go back in.
It's not going to be easy.
Putz  that won't be for hours.
I was counting on hours.
Oh, shit.
Someone pop your balloon?
No problem, no problem.
Low tide at Cable Junction is 7:46 p.m.
What'd you do? Memorize the tide tables?
I can't help it it sticks in my mind.
It's okay, it's okay....
Sean! Listen! Listen to me, Sean.
Bring her to port a little. That's it  steady.
I think we're changing course a little.
Don't!
Stop paddling!
Easy, easy  you'll swamp us!
Back down!
Get on the rocks!
Swim for it!
How fast does this go?
With the right wind, 1520 knots.
What?
You can?
You going to the lighthouse?
Come on, you guys.
Well, I don't know....
For me...?
What the hell. For you....
Great! Find one for me.
With butter, if they got any....
Wheee! Faster!
How fast is enough?
I want to go faster!
My hair's getting wet!
So's mine.
When do we get to the lighthouse?
Soon, dark eyes, soon.
I can't wait to get there.
But of course.
Sure you do  you win either way.
I'm supposed to.
I guess you forgot something.
Huh?
You forgot something.
What?
Well, aren't you going to make a deposit?
Sure, sure I am.
Well, then . . it's usually customary to bring the money with you.
Oh, shucks . . .
How about that one there?
Hmm? Well, I . . .
Oh, you two idiots! George, sit down and have dinner.
I've eaten.
Well, aren't you going to finish dressing for your graduation party? Look at you.
I don't care. It's George's tux.
Pop, can I have the car? I'm going to take over a lot of plates and things.
What plates?
Oh, Mom I'm chairman of the eats committee and we only need a couple of dozen.
Oh, no you don't. Harry, now, not my best Haviland.
Put those things in the car and I'll get your tie and studs together.
Okay, Mom. You coming later? You coming later, George?
Made up your mind yet?
I'll take chocolate.
With coconuts?
I don't like coconuts.
You don't like coconuts! Say, brainless, don't you know where coconuts come from? Lookit here from Tahiti Fiji Islands, the Coral Sea!
A new magazine! I never saw it before.
Of course you never. Only us explorers can get it. I've been nominated for membership in the National Geographic Society.
Well, hello.
Hello. You look at me as if you didn't know me.
Well, I don't.
You've passed me on the street almost every day.
Me?
Uhhuh.
Uhuh. That was a little girl named Mary Hatch. That wasn't you.
I'm not very good at this.
Neither am I.
Okay what can we lose?
Hot dog! Just like an organ.
Beautiful.
Do I look as funny as you do?
I guess I'm not quite the football type. You . . . look wonderful. You know, if it wasn't me talking I'd say you were the prettiest girl in town.
Well, why don't you say it?
I don't know. Maybe I will say it. How old are you anyway?
Eighteen.
Eighteen? Why, it was only last year you were seventeen.
Too young or too old?
Oh, no. Just right. Your age fits you. Yes, sir, you look a little older without your clothes on.
Your . . . your caboose, my lady.
You may kiss my hand.
Ummmmm . . .
Okay, then, I'll throw a rock at the old Granville house.
Oh, no, don't. I love that old house.
Oh, no, George, don't. It's full of romance, that old place. I'd like to live in it.
In that place?
Uhhuh.
I wouldn't live in it as a ghost. Now watch . . . right on the second floor there.
What'd you wish, George?
Well, not just one wish. A whole hatful, Mary. I know what I'm going to do tomorrow and the next day and the next year and the year after that. I'm shaking the dust of this crummy little town off my feet and I'm going to see the world. Italy, Greece, the Parthenon, the Colosseum. Then I'm coming back here and go to college and see what they know . . . and then I'm going to build things. I'm gonna build air fields. I'm gonna build skyscrapers a hundred stories high. I'm gonna build bridges a mile long . . .
Oh, no.
Come on, tell me.
If I told you it might not come true.
What is it you want, Mary? What do you want? You want the moon? Just say . . .
I'll take it. And then what?
Well, then you could swallow it and it'd all dissolve, see? And the moonbeams'd shoot out of your fingers and your toes, and the ends of your hair. Am I talking too much?
Ouch!
Gesundheit. This requires a little thought here.
They're way downtown. They'd be on my side, too.
I'm going to scream!
Hello, Mary. I just happened to be passing by.
Yeah, so I noticed. Have you made up your mind?
How's that?
Have you made up your mind?
About what?
About coming in. Your mother just phoned and said you were on your way over to pay me a visit.
My mother just called you? Well, how did she know?
Didn't you tell her?
I didn't tell anybody. I just went for a walk and happened to be passing by . . .
Well, are you coming in or aren't you?
Well, I'll come in for a minute, but I didn't tell anybody I was coming over here.
When did you get back?
Tuesday.
Where'd you get that dress?
Do you like it?
It's all right. I thought you'd go back to New York like Sam and Ingie, and the rest of them.
Oh, I worked there for a couple of vacations, but I don't know . . . I guess I was homesick.
All right, for a minute. I still can't understand it though. You know I didn't tell anybody I was coming here.
Would you rather leave?
No, I don't want to be rude.
Well, then, sit down.
Well, I see it still smells like pine needles in here.
Thank you.
Oh . . . yeah, yeah. That's all right.
Don't you like her?
Well, of course I like her. She's a peach.
Oh, it's just marriage in general you're not enthusiastic about, huh?
No, marriage is all right for Harry, and Marty, and Sam and you.
George . . . George . . . George . . .
Mary . . .
Where are we going? Look at this. There's the kitty, Ernie. Here, come on, count it, Mary.
I feel like a bootlegger's wife. Look!
You know what we're going to do? We're going to shoot the works. A whole week in New York. A whole week in Bermuda. The highest hotels the oldest champagne the richest caviar the hottest music, and the prettiest wife!
After that, who cares?
That does it come here.
Just a minute, dear. Ohoh . . .
Please, let's not stop, George.
I'll be back in a minute, Mary.
Oh, Mary . . .
Remember the night we broke the windows in this old house? This is what I wished for.
Darling, you're wonderful.
Have fun.
Thanks for dropping around.
Hi.
Hi.
Mary Hatch, why in the world did you ever marry a guy like me?
To keep from being an old maid.
You could have married Sam Wainwright or anybody else in town.
I didn't want to marry anybody else in town. I want my baby to look like you.
You didn't even have a honeymoon. I promised you . . . . . . Your what?
My baby.
George Bailey lassos stork.
Lassos the stork! You mean you . . . What is it, a boy or a girl?
Is it snowing?
Yeah, just started.
Where's your coat and hat?
Left them at the office.
Zuzu! What's the matter with Zuzu?
Oh, she's got a cold. She's in bed. Caught it coming home from school. They gave her a flower for a prize and she didn't want to crush it so she didn't button up her coat.
What is it, a sore throat or what?
Just a cold. The doctor says it's nothing serious.
The doctor? Was the doctor here?
Yes, I called him right away. He says it's nothing to worry about.
Is she running a temperature? What is it?
Just a teensie one ninetynine, six. She'll be all right.
Where're you going?
Going up to see Zuzu.
Mary! Mary!
George, darling! Where have you been?
Oh, George, George, George.
Mary! Let me touch you! Oh, you're real!
Oh, George, George!
You have no idea what's happened to me.
You have no idea what happened . . .
I have a big deal coming up that's going to make us all rich. George, you remember that night in Martini's bar when you told me you read someplace about making plastics out of soybeans?
Huh? Yeahyeahyeah . . . soybeans. Yeah.
Well, Dad's snapped up the idea. He's going to build a factory outside of Rochester. How do you like that?
Rochester? Well, why Rochester?
Well, why not? Can you think of anything better?
Oh, I don't know . . . why not right here? You remember that old tool and machinery works? You tell your father he can get that for a song. And all the labor he wants, too. Half the town was thrown out of work when they closed down.
That so? Well, I'll tell him. Hey, that sounds great! Oh, baby, I knew you'd come through. Now, here's the point. Mary, Mary, you're in on this too. Now listen. Have you got any money?
Money? Yeah . . . well, a little.
Well, now listen. I want you to put every cent you've got into our stock, you hear? And George, I may have a job for you; that is, unless you're still married to that brokendown Building and Loan. This is the biggest thing since radio, and I'm letting you in on the ground floor. Oh, Mary . . . Mary . . .
Pop!
Have you put any real pressure on those people of yours to pay those mortgages?
Pop!
They're not my children.
Yes, sir.
You see, if you shoot pool with some employee here, you can come and borrow money. What does that get us? A discontented, lazy rabble instead of a thrifty working class. And all because a few starryeyed dreamers like Peter Bailey stir them up and fill their heads with a lot of impossible ideas. Now, I say . . .
Just a minute just a minute. Now, hold on, Mr. Potter. You're right when you say my father was no business man. I know that. Why he ever started this cheap, pennyante Building and Loan, I'll never know. But neither you nor anybody else can say anything against his character, because his whole life was . . . Why, in the twentyfive years since he and Uncle Billy started this thing, he never once thought of himself. Isn't that right, Uncle Billy? He didn't save enough money to send Harry to school, let alone me. But he did help a few people get out of your slums, Mr. Potter. And what's wrong with that? Why . . . Here, you're all businessmen here. Doesn't it make them better citizens? Doesn't it make them better customers? You . . . you said . . . What'd you say just a minute ago? . . . They had to wait and save their money before they even ought to think of a decent home. Wait! Wait for what? Until their children grow up and leave them? Until they're so old and brokendown that they . . . Do you know how long it takes a working man to save five thousand dollars? Just remember this, Mr. Potter, that this rabble you're talking about . . . they do most of the working and paying and living and dying in this community. Well, is it too much to have them work and pay and live and die in a couple of decent rooms and a bath? Anyway, my father didn't think so. People were human beings to him, but to you, a warped, frustrated old man, they're cattle. Well, in my book he died a much richer man than you'll ever be!
I'm not interested in your book. I'm talking about the Building and Loan.
I know very well what you're talking about. You're talking about something you can't get your fingers on, and it's galling you. That's what you're talking about, I know. Well, I've said too much. I . . . You're the Board here. You do what you want with this thing. Just one thing more, though. This town needs this measly onehorse institution if only to have some place where people can come without crawling to Potter. Come on, Uncle Billy!
Thank you, sir. Quite a cigar, Mr. Potter.
You like it? I'll send you a box.
Yes. Well, most people say you stole all the rest.
The envious ones say that, George, the suckers. Now, I have stated my side very frankly. Now, let's look at your side. Young man, twentyseven, twentyeight . . . married, making, say . . . forty a week.
You wouldn't mind living in the nicest house in town, buying your wife a lot of fine clothes, a couple of business trips to New York a year, maybe once in a while Europe. You wouldn't mind that, would you, George?
Would I? You're not talking to somebody else around here, are you? You know, this is me, you remember me? George Bailey.
Oh, yes, George Bailey. Whose ship has just come in providing he has brains enough to climb aboard.
Well, what about the Building and Loan?
Oh, confound it, man, are you afraid of success? I'm offering you a three year contract at twenty thousand dollars a year, starting today. Is it a deal or isn't it?
Well, Mr. Potter, I . . . I . . . I know I ought to jump at the chance, but I . . . I just . . . I wonder if it would be possible for you to give me twentyfour hours to think it over?
Sure, sure, sure. You go on home and talk about it to your wife.
I'd like to do that.
In the meantime, I'll draw up the papers.
All right, sir.
Yes, sir.
Have you notified the police?
No, sir. I didn't want the publicity. Harry's homecoming tomorrow . . .
No, sir. No, sir. I haven't.
What is it a woman, then? You know, it's all over town that you've been giving money to Violet Bick.
Not that it makes any difference to me, but why did you come to me? Why don't you go to Sam Wainwright and ask him for the money?
I can't get hold of him. He's in Europe.
Well, what about all your other friends?
They don't have that kind of money, Mr. Potter. You know that. You're the only one in town that can help me.
I see. I've suddenly become quite important. What kind of security would I have, George? Have you got any stocks?
Yes . . . how much is your equity in it?
Five hundred dollars.
Avast, there, Captain Cook! Where you headin'?
Got to see Pop, Uncle Billy.
Some other time, George.
It's important.
There's a squall in there that's shapin' up into a storm.
Uhhuh. Breakfast is served; lunch is served; dinner . . .
No, no, no, no! Anchor chains, plane motors, and train whistles.
Peanut?
Hello.
How do you do.
Well, what do you know wife.
Well, how do you do. Congratulations. Congratulations. What am I doing?
Oh, thank you, George, old boy, old boy. Now, look if you'll point me in the right direction . . . would you do that? George?
Right down here.
Old Building and Loan pal, huh . . .
Now you just turn this way and go right straight down.
That way, huh?
What is this, Uncle Billy? A holiday?
George . . .
Why didn't you call me?
I just did, but they said you left. This is a pickle, George, this is a pickle.
All right now, what happened? How did it start?
How does anything like this ever start? All I know is the bank called our loan.
When?
About an hour ago. I had to hand over all our cash.
All of it?
Every cent of it, and it still was less than we owe.
Holy mackerel!
And then I got scared, George, and closed the doors. I . . . I . . . I . . .
The whole town's gone crazy.
Yes, hello? George . . . it's Potter.
Hello?
George, was it a nice wedding? Gosh, I wanted to be there.
Yeah . . . . . . you can take this one off now.
Those Rockefellers!
Get a tray for these great big important simoleons.
We'll save them for seed. A toast!
Now look, did you buy anything?
Nothing. Not even a stick of gum.
All right. All right. Now we'll go over every step you took since you left the house.
This way.
And did you put the envelope in your pocket?
Yeah . . yeah . . . maybe . . . maybe . . .
Two cents worth of shoelaces?
She was here first.
Good afternoon, Mr. Bailey.
Hello, Violet. Hey, you look good. That's some dress you got on there.
Hey, George . . .
Hello, Violet.
Hello, what am I bid?
Hello, GeorgiePorgie.
Hello, Vi.
What gives?
Nothing.
Where are you going?
Oh, I'll probably end up down at the library.
Let's go out in the fields and take off our shoes and walk through the grass.
Huh?
Then we can go up to the falls. It's beautiful up there in the moonlight, and there's a green pool up there, and we can swim in it. Then we can climb Mt. Bedford, and smell the pines, and watch the sunrise against the peaks, and . . . we'll stay up there the whole night, and everybody'll be talking and there'll be a terrific scandal . . .
George, can I see you for a second?
Why, of course you can. Come on in the office here.
No, George, don't . . .
Here, now, you're broke, aren't you?
I know, but . . .
What do you want to do, hock your furs, and that hat? Want to walk to New York? You know, they charge for meals and rent up there just the same as they do in Bedford Falls.
Say hello to New York for me.
Yeah yeah . . . sure I will.
Now, let's hear from you . . .
Violet Bick!
I'm not going to go, George. I changed my mind.
George.
Hiya, Marty. Well, it's old home week.
Do me a favor, will you, George?
What's that?
Well, you remember my kid sister, Mary?
Oh, yeah, yeah.
Oh . . . me? Oh, well, I feel funny enough already, with all these kids.
Aw, come on. Be a sport. Just dance with her one time and you'll give her the thrill of her life.
Got a match?
Very funny. Very funny.
What do you mean, and be bored to death?
Couldn't want a better death. Lots of pretty girls, and we're going to use that new floor of yours tonight, too.
I hope it works.
Mary . . . Mary, I'm sorry. I've got to go.
Come on, George, let's hurry.
Did you get a doctor?
Oh, am I glad to see you.
Say, where's Mother?
She's home cooking the fatted calf. Come on, let's go.
Oh, wait. Wait . . . Wait a minute.
Hello, George, how are you?
Harry . . . Harry . . .
Hope you have a good trip, George. Uncle Billy and I are going to miss you.
I'm going to miss you, too, Pop. What's the matter? You look tired.
Oh, I had another tussle with Potter today.
Oh . . .
I thought when we put him on the Board of Directors, he'd ease up on us a little bit.
I wonder what's eating that old moneygrubbing buzzard anyway?
Oh, he's a sick man. Frustrated and sick. Sick in his mind, sick in his soul, if he has one. Hates everybody that has anything that he can't have. Hates us mostly, I guess.
Father, did I act like that when I graduated from high school?
Pretty much. You know, George, wish we could send Harry to college with you. Your mother and I talked it over half the night.
We have that all figured out. You see, Harry'll take my job at the Building and Loan, work there four years, then he'll go.
He's pretty young for that job.
Well, no younger than I was.
Maybe you were born older, George.
How's that?
I say, maybe you were born older. I suppose you've decided what you're going to do when you get out of college.
Oh, well, you know what I've always talked about build things . . . design new buildings plan modern cities all that stuff I was talking about.
Still after that first million before you're thirty.
No, I'll settle for half that in cash.
I know it's soon to talk about it.
Oh, now, Pop, I couldn't. I couldn't face being cooped up for the rest of my life in a shabby little office.
Yes . . . Yes . . . You're right, son.
You see what I mean, don't you, Pop?
This town is no place for any man unless he's willing to crawl to Potter. You've got talent, son. You get yourself an education. Then get out of here.
Pop, do you want a shock? I think you're a great guy.
I'm going to miss old Annie. Pop, I think I'll get dressed and go over to Harry's party.
Have a good time, son.
Yes, you bet.
Where's my insurance policy? Oh, here . . .
You want a martini?
No, no, Martini. Your boss. Where is he?
Okay all right. Double bourbon, quick, huh?
Okay. What's yours?
That does it! Out you two pixies go, through the door or out the window!
Look, Nick. What's wrong?
Well, Nick, that's your name, isn't it?
What's that got to do with it? I don't know you from Adam's off ox. Hey, you! Rummy! Come here! Come here!
George! George!
Yes, sir.
You're not paid to be a canary.
No, sir.
Mr. Gower, do you want something . . . Anything?
No.
Anything I can do back here?
No.
Yes, sir. They have the diphtheria there, haven't they, sir?
Ummmm . . .
Is it a charge, sir?
Yes charge.
Mr. Gower, I think . . .
Aw, get going!
Yes, sir.
No . . . No . . . No. . .
Don't hurt my ear again!
Mr. Gower, I won't ever tell anyone. I know what you're feeling. I won't ever tell a soul. Hope to die, I won't.
Oh, George.
Mr. Gower . . . Mr. Gower . . . thanks ever so much for the bag. It's just exactly what I wanted.
Aw, forget it.
Oh, it's wonderful.
Hope you enjoy it.
Mr. Gower! Mr. Gower! This is George Bailey! Don't you know me?
No. No.
She's swell.
Looks like she can keep Harry on his toes.
Keep him out of Bedford Falls, anyway.
Did you know that Mary Hatch is back from school?
Uhhuh.
Came back three days ago.
Hmmmm . . .
Nice girl, Mary.
Hmmmm . . .
Kind that will help you find the answers, George.
Hmmm . . .
Oh, stop that grunting.
Hmmm . . .
Can you give me one good reason why you shouldn't call on Mary?
Sure Sam Wainwright.
Hmmm?
Yes. Sam's crazy about Mary.
Well, she's not crazy about him.
Well, how do you know? Did she discuss it with you?
No.
Well then, how do you know?
Well, I've got eyes, haven't I? Why, she lights up like a firefly whenever you're around.
Oh . . .
And besides, Sam Wainwright's away in New York, and you're here in Bedford Falls.
And all's fair in love and war?
Mother, you know, I can see right through you right back to your back collar button . . . trying to get rid of me, huh?
Uhhuh.
Well, here's your hat, what's your hurry? All right, Mother, old Building and Loan pal, I think I'll go out and find a girl and do a little passionate necking.
Oh, George!
Now, if you'll just point me in the right direction . . . This direction? Good night, Mrs. Bailey.
What's that?
I own the house. Me, Giuseppe Martini. I own my own house. No more we live like pigs in thisa Potter's Field. Hurry, Maria.
Goodbye, everybody!
All in . . .
He's gone. Don't worry. His name is Welch. He don't come in to my place no more.
Oh Welch. That's what I get for praying.
The last time he come in here. You hear that, Nick?
Oh, no, Please, don't go out this way, Mr. Bailey.
I'm all right.
Oh, no you don't feel so good.
I'm all right.
Please don't go away please!
Big see! I don't want one for one night. I want something for a thousand and one nights, with plenty of room for labels from Italy and Baghdad, Samarkand . . . a great big one.
I see, a flying carpet, huh? I don't suppose you'd like this old secondhand job, would you?
Now you're talkin'. Gee whiz, I could use this as a raft in case the boat sunk. How much does this cost?
No charge.
That's my trick ear, Joe. It sounded as if you said no charge.
What boat you sailing on?
I'm working across on a cattle boat.
A cattle boat?
Oh, oh. Sam Wainwright! How are you? When did you get here?
Oh, this afternoon. I thought I'd give the kids a treat.
Old college graduate now, huh?
Yeah old Joe College Wainwright, they call me. Well, freshman, looks like you're going to make it after all.
Yep.
Heehaw!
Heehaw!
We just stopped in town to take a look at the new factory, and then we're going to drive on down to Florida.
Oh . . .
Oh, I'm afraid I couldn't get away, Sam.
Still got the nose to the old grindstone, eh? Jane, I offered to let George in on the ground floor in plastics, and he turned me down cold.
Oh, now, don't rub it in.
I'm not rubbing it in. Well, I guess we better run along.
So long, George. See you in the funny papers.
Goodbye, Sam.
Hi, Daddy.
Well, what happened to you?
I won a flower.
Wait now. Where do you think you're going?
Want to give my flower a drink.
All right, all right. Here, give Daddy the flower. I'll give it a drink.
Look, Daddy . . . paste it.
Yeah, all right. Now, I'll paste this together.
There it is, good as new.
Give the flower a drink.
What?
Will you try to get some sleep?
I'm not sleepy. I want to look at my flower.
I know I know, but you just go to sleep, and then you can dream about it, and it'll be a whole garden.
It will?
Uhhuh.
Daddy!
Zuzu Zuzu. My little gingersnap! How do you feel?
Fine.
Well?
Mother . . .
Mother? What do you want?
Oh, Mother, Mother, please help me. Something terrible's happened to me. I don't know what it is. Something's happened to everybody. Please let me come in. Keep me here until I get over it.
Get over what? I don't take in strangers unless they're sent here by somebody I know.
Well, sure I do.
When'd you see him last?
Today, over at the house.
That's a lie. He's been in the insane asylum ever since he lost his business. And if you ask me, that's where you belong.
Hello, Joseph, trouble?
Looks like we'll have to send someone down a lot of people are asking for help for a man named George Bailey.
George Bailey. Yes, tonight's his crucial night. You're right, we'll have to send someone down immediately. Whose turn is it?
That's why I came to see you, sir. It's that clockmaker's turn again.
Oh Clarence. Hasn't got his wings yet, has he? We've passed him up right along.
Because, you know, sir, he's got the I.Q. of a rabbit.
Yes, but he's got the faith of a child simple. Joseph, send for Clarence.
On VJ Day he wept and prayed again.
Joseph, now show him what happened today.
Yes, sir.
Hey, Ernie!
Hiya, George!
Hi, Bert.
If either of you two see a stranger around here, it's me.
Hey, look! Somebody's driving this cab.
Bert, the cop, sent this over. He said to float away to Happy Land on the bubbles.
Oh, look at this. Champagne!
Aw, now, doggone it, Ernie, don't you start pulling that stuff. You know where I live. Threetwenty Sycamore. Now hurry up.
Okay. Threetwenty Sycamore? . . .
Yeah yeah hurry up. Zuzu's sick.
All right.
Look, bud, what's the idea? I live in a shack in Potter's Field and my wife ran away three years ago and took the kid . . . And I ain't never seen you before in my life.
Okay. Just step on it. Just get me home.
Is this the place?
Of course it's the place.
Well, this house ain't been lived in for twenty years.
I want the Board to know that George gave up his trip to Europe to help straighten things out here these past few months. Good luck to you at school, George.
Thanks.
Now we come to the real purpose of this meeting to appoint a successor to our dear friend, Peter Bailey.
Thank you very much.
It was his faith and devotion that are responsible for this organization.
What's that?
That's the best part of it. They've appointed George here as executive secretary to take his father's place.
Oh, no! But, Uncle Billy . . .
You can keep him on. That's all right. As secretary you can hire anyone you like.
Hey . . . hey. Where did the Building and Loan move to?
The Building and what?
The Bailey Building and Loan. It was up there.
They went out of business years ago.
Hey, Violet! Hey, listen that's Violet Bick!
I know. I know.
I know that girl!
You sent for me, sir?
Yes, Clarence. A man down on earth needs our help.
Splendid! Is he sick?
No, worse. He's discouraged. At exactly tenfortyfive PM tonight, Earth time, that man will be thinking seriously of throwing away God's greatest gift.
Oh, dear, dear! His life! Then I've only got an hour to dress. What are they wearing now?
You will spend that hour getting acquainted with George Bailey.
Sir . . . If I should accomplish this mission I mean might I perhaps win my wings? I've been waiting for over two hundred years now, sir and people are beginning to talk.
What's that book you've got there?
The Adventures of Tom Sawyer.
Clarence, you do a good job with George Bailey, and you'll get your wings.
Oh, thank you, sir. Thank you.
Poor George . . . Sit down.
Sit down? What are . . .
If you're going to help a man, you want to know something about him, don't you?
Well, naturally. Of course.
Well, keep your eyes open. See the town?
Where? I don't see a thing.
Oh, I forgot. You haven't got your wings yet. Now look, I'll help you out. Concentrate. Begin to see something?
Why, yes. This is amazing.
If you ever get your wings, you'll see all by yourself.
Oh, wonderful!
Hey, who's that?
That's your problem, George Bailey.
A boy?
That's him when he was twelve, back in 1919. Something happens here you'll have to remember later on.
What did you stop it for?
I want you to take a good look at that face.
Who is it?
George Bailey.
Oh, you mean the kid that had his ears slapped back by the druggist.
That's the kid.
It's a good face. I like it. I like George Bailey. Tell me, did he ever tell anyone about the pills?
Not a soul.
Did he ever marry the girl? Did he ever go exploring?
Well, wait and see.
I know. I know. He didn't go.
That's right. Not only that, but he gave his school money to his brother Harry, and sent him to college. Harry became a football star made second team All American.
Yes, but what happened to George?
Now, you've probably already guessed that George never leaves Bedford Falls.
No!
. . . two of them as they were about to crash into a transport full of soldiers.
Yes, but George . . .
You what? To save me?
Well, I did, didn't I? You didn't go through with it, did you?
Go through with what?
Suicide.
Oh, I know all about you. I've watched you grow up from a little boy.
What are you, a mind reader or something?
Oh, no.
Well, who are you, then?
Clarence Odbody, AS2.
Odbody . . . AS2. What's that AS2?
Angel, Second Class.
That's what I was sent down for. I'm your guardian angel.
I wouldn't be a bit surprised.
Ridiculous of you to think of killing yourself for money. Eight thousand dollars.
I told you I'm your guardian angel. I know everything about you.
Well, you look about like the kind of an angel I'd get. Sort of a fallen angel, aren't you? What happened to your wings?
I haven't won my wings yet. That's why I'm an angel Second Class.
I don't know whether I like it very much being seen around with an angel without any wings.
Oh, I've got to earn them, and you'll help me, won't you?
By letting me help you.
Only one way you can help me. You don't happen to have eight thousand bucks on you?
Oh, no, no. We don't use money in Heaven.
Oh, that's right, I keep forgetting. Comes in pretty handy down here, bub.
Oh, tut, tut, tut.
I found it out a little late. I'm worth more dead than alive.
Now look, you mustn't talk like that. I won't get my wings with that attitude. You just don't know all that you've done. If it hadn't been for you . . .
What'd you say?
I said I wish I'd never been born.
Oh, you mustn't say things like that. You . . . . . . wait a minute. Wait a minute. That's an idea. What do you think? Yeah, that'll do it. All right. You've got your wish. You've never been born.
What did you say?
You've never been born. You don't exist. You haven't a care in the world.
Well, that's the doggonedest thing . . . I haven't heard anything out of that ear since I was a kid. Must have been that jump in the cold water.
Your lip's stopped bleeding, too, George.
It's stopped snowing out, hasn't it? What's happened here? Come on, soon as these clothes of ours are dry . . .
Our clothes are dry.
I can't fly. I haven't got any wings.
You haven't got your wings. Yeah, that's right.
You have no car.
Well, I had a car, and it was right here. I guess somebody moved it.
Oh, I don't know. Either I'm off my nut, or he is . . . . . . or you are!
It isn't me!
Well, maybe I left the car up at Martini's. Well, come on, Gabriel.
What's the matter with him. I never saw Nick act like that before.
You'll see a lot of strange things from now on.
Oh, yeah. Hey, little fellow you worry me. You got someplace to sleep?
No.
You don't huh? Well, you got any money?
No.
No wonder you jumped in the river.
I jumped in the river to save you so I could get my wings.
Ohoh. Somebody's just made it.
Made what?
Every time you hear a bell ring, it means that some angel's just got his wings.
Look, I think maybe you better not mention getting your wings around here.
Why? Don't they believe in angels?
You see, George, you were not there to stop Gower from putting that poison into the . . .
What do you mean, I wasn't there? I remember distinctly . . .
Yeah, yeah, I know. You told me that. What else are you? What . . . are you a hypnotist?
No, of course not.
Well then, why am I seeing all these strange things?
Don't you understand, George? It's because you were not born.
Then if I wasn't born, who am I?
You're nobody. You have no identity.
What do you mean, no identity? My name's George Bailey.
There is no George Bailey. You have no papers, no cards, no driver's license, no 4F card, no insurance policy . . .
What?
Zuzu's petals.
You know where he lives?
Sure I know where he lives. He lives in Bailey Park.
Are you sure this is Bailey Park?
Oh, I'm not sure of anything anymore. All I know is this should be Bailey Park. But where are the houses?
Clarence . . .
Yes, George?
Where's Mary?
Oh, well, I can't . . .
I don't know how you know these things, but tell me where is she?
I . . .
If you know where she is, tell me where my wife is.
I'm not supposed to tell.
She's . . .
Where is she?
Good morning, sir.
Carter bank examiner.
Mr. Carter, Merry Christmas.
Merry Christmas.
We're all excited around here. My brother just got the Congressional Medal of Honor. The President just decorated him.
Well, I guess they do those things. Well, I trust you had a good year.
Good year? Well, between you and me, Mr. Carter, we're broke.
Yeah, very funny.
Well . . . . . . now, come right in here, Mr. Carter.
George . . .
Ernie, I'm a rich tourist today. How about driving me home in style?
All right, put up your hands. No fast moves. Come on out here, both of you.
Bert! Thank heaven you're here!
Stand back.
Bert, what's happened to this house? Where's Mary? Where's my kids?
Bert, now listen to me. Ernie, will you take me over to my mother's house? Bert, listen! It's that fellow there he says he's an angel he's tried to hypnotize me.
I hate to do this, fella.
What the Sam Hill you yelling for, George?
Don't . . . George?
Know you? Are you kiddin'? I've been looking all over town trying to find you. I saw your car piled into that tree down there, and I thought maybe . . . Hey, your mouth's bleeding; are you sure you're all right?
What did . . .
Hey, this is the company's posters, and the company won't like this.
How would you like to get a ticket next week? Haven't you any romance in you?
Sure I have, but I got rid of it.
Come on, we got to get this up. He's coming.
Who?
The groom, idiot. Come on, get that ladder.
Get that ladder up here.
All right all right.
Hurry up . . . hurry up . . . hurry up.
I'm hurrying.
I'm not crying, Mr. Potter.
Well, you're begging, and that's a whole lot worse.
All I'm asking is thirty days more . . .
Times are bad, Mr. Potter. A lot of these people are out of work.
Then foreclose!
I can't do that. These families have children.
But they're somebody's children.
Are you running a business or a charity ward?
Well, all right . . .
Mr. Potter, what makes you such a hardskulled character? You have no family no children. You can't begin to spend all the money you've got.
So I suppose I should give it to miserable failures like you and that idiot brother of yours to spend for me.
You're crying. Why?
I don't know. Everything's so mixed up 
Everything's so simple. I like you.
What's bothering you, Thea? Is it the General?
Sometimes when he looks at me in that strange way, I'm afraid of him.
Don't let it trouble you. He's an old man and these last few days have been a terrible strain on him. He won't harm you.
Please.. You shouldn't laugh 
You see? Thea believes it, too!
Thea, what's wrong?
The General threatened me.
Oh, that Vrykolaka business. You mustn't be too angry with him, Thea. He's an old man and now with all this trouble the disappointment in not being able to lead his own army to victory  cooped up here waiting for death  naturally his mind goes back to the things he believed when he was an ignorant lad in some mountain village.
He keeps asking for the name of my father and mother.
Well, tell, him.
I can't.
Why in the world can't you?
He hates all my race.
I knew that feuds still went on, but I didn't think people like you and the General would be involved.
It is more than a feud between two families. He stole my mother away from her people.
Thea, what is this? What are you trying to tell me? "He stole your mother" 
It is for that he hates me.
I don't think so, Thea. He has spoken of your mother. I don't believe he knows you are his daughter.
Then why does he persecute me? My family told me what kind of man he is, how he stole my mother and then abandoned her 
Because she loved him. I know him, Thea. Believe me, he is not a cruel man.
For a moment, when he looked at me so sadly, I felt that I had wronged him. But then 
Let me tell him. When he knows you are his child, he'll forget these insane notions 
No  you musn't. He thinks I've bewitched you. He won't believe it  he'll hate me even more! My only chance is to stay away from him.
Why not Take the doctor's advice? You're the hero of the battle of Corphon.
Hero?
In the New York Morning Globe, the man who wins victory is always a hero. 
You know that sound, Oliver?
I heard the same sound at Ladysmith, at Nukden, Port Arthur. What do you expect after a battle?
You were at those battles as a spectator I wonder if you can think what that sound might mean to me those men out there dead or dying by my order  because I willed it so.
Do you mind if I go with you?
There's no one there  nothing but the caves and the dead.
I'll only go as far as the shore and wait for you.
She is not there. The coffin is gone.
Maybe you've got the wrong crypt after all it's twenty years when you wore last here.
You are a happy man Oliver. You have but one world to live in  the world of today. I have two worlds. I have that old dark world of peasant ignorance and superstition in which I was brought up and a new world which the army gave me a world of mathematics, gun ranges,logistics, tactics, strategy.
It doesn't seem to bother you much, General.
I will be glad to leave this island. It has too much of that old dark world about it. I will be glad to leave it and that girl 
Thea?
There is something evil about her.
Oh, now now look here 
I know all you are going to say I have been saying it to myself, but the thought will not leave my mind. She resembles my wife there is something about her the way she moves the way she turns her head.
But that should make you like her.
It makes me fear her.
I can't understand that.
It is not necessary to understand. We are leaving and I am thankful.
Well, at any rate, I would like to say goodbye to the girl.
We have no time for that.
I've seen men die drunk  and I've seen men die of the plague.
Plague? There's no possibility of that, is there?
The rider on the pale horse is Pestilence. He follows the wars.
Until we know, what choice is there? We have to stay.
But the war, the army they need you.
Better no general than one carrying the plague.
We still don't know that it's the plague 
Dr. Drossos will tell us. We will know what to do then.
Thea is so like her in every feature 
If she looked like Thea, she must have been beautiful.
She was beautiful. There was blood between her family and my kin. But that did not stop me from taking her when I saw her beauty, nor did it stop her from loving me.
How did she die?
I don' t know. When I was gone the people from her village came to my home seeking vengeance. They bore her away with them. Months later she came back pale  sick  she died 
Is this what you wanted to speak to me about?
In a way  this girl, Thea. You must stay away from her.
I had a notion you had become selfappointed chaperone lately why?
You are my friend.
And I'm your friend but that doesn't explain why you are always trying to come between Thea and me?
If I told you you wouldn't believe me  but this much I can tell you the girl is dangerous to you. Take a friend's advice  an old man' s advice  leave her alone 
That's ridiculous  Thea's lovely, gentle 
Listen to what I say 
When you make sense I'll listen.
I have had command for the last time 
Come  you'll feel yourself again as soon as we get off this dismal island.
I shall not leave the island 
Theodosia 
Not Theodosia. Theodosia's daughter  your daughter.
Daughter  my daughter 
She was born before your wife returned here to die. You never knew.
I don't really know where Thea comes from. The ViceConsul at Adrianople brought her to me..
Her name is Thea?
Theodosia.
Her family name?
Damn me, if I know. She's become so much a member of our household I never think of her by any name but Thea  she has a last name 
You do not know her last name  you do not know from where she came?
Miss Wollsten  my secretary, she'd know.
Your daughter is ill.
She's not too well.
What is her illness?
Nothing, really. She's been under a great strain  the journey  the battle 
Was she ill before that girl came into your household?
Why  no not before Thea came 
This girl 
This girl  Thea  is not a servant in my household, sir. She is my daughter's companion. Now, sir, if you'll excuse me, I'll go have a look at Mr. Jacks.
I will go with you.
No. No. I won't believe it. He's not dead.
This is Dr. Drossos, chief medical officer of my division.
I don't care who he is. He doesn't know. He can't tell 
Woman, what are you doing here?
I wanted to be sure of something, General  something that has always preyed on my mind. I have a horror of being buried alive and awakening to find myself shut in  entombed imprisoned..
He sleeps quietly. He died with a wine glass in his hand  he died laughing  a brave man, Drossos, like his father before him.
Because he was a brave man  because I liked him  I came here to be sure.
He's dead enough. God rest his soul.
I'm a woman  a lonely woman. I have few friends.
Yes?
I have not had a happy life but that one thing   that terror which brings me awake out of deep sleep  I want to avoid it.
I don't understand you.
I don't want to be buried alive. If I die I want to be sure  quite sure.
If you should fall sick we'll be careful. You need not worry.
No, I want more than that. I beg you General, make sure drive a knife through my heart  anything.
You ask that of me? You're afraid to live in your coffin. You know what that means?
That's superstition. That's something out of old tales  about the dead who live  I'm talking of something else cataleptic attacks  apparent death that is not real.
Never fear  when you are dead you will remain dead. I will see to it that you do not walk about again. I promise you that. There is another one here who can not die. I will watch you both. Never fear.
I wish I didn't have such bitter knowledge of you, Cathy.
Whet do you mean?
They were talking about the Vrykolakas this morning. Cathy, that's what you are a weak, pale, halfdead thing that drains all the life and joy from those who want to live.
Miss Wollsten!
You and your mysterious illness. A new attack everytime you are crossed everytime you can't get your own way.
Your father knew it too. But he was never sure how much was pretense.
How do you know what my father thought  
Your father loved me. He wanted to marry me. But he was afraid of hurting the gentle, delicate Cathy. You spoiled his life you've ruined mine 
You were father's secretary  I never thought  
Didn't you? But now  what are you thinking now?
What would I be thinking?
Mr. Davis seems a good prospect young handsome, sympathetic  ready to listen to you and feel sorry for you  
What if he is?
) But Thea  She stands in your way. I know you. I know your little hints the way you can turn the truth into a lie 
Why, I'm fond of Thea.
You're planing something, Cathy.. But I won't let you  I'll warn them against you.
You will not say one single word. I know your secret.
That your father and I 
No. I mean your other secret  the one you kept bidden even from my father. That old doctor in London  he told me.
I've always known what an evil mind lay behind that pretty weak face of yours but this, Cathy  even I would never have believed it is of you.
Would you care to explain what you're talking about?
You've been playing on the superstitions of that poor old man working at him turning him against Thea.
Really, this is idiotic!
You'd do anything to get Oliver away from Thea. But I'm going to stop you. I'm going to tell Mr. Davis exactly what you are.
When I tell him that you're unfit to live a normal life with normal people  a cataleptic!
You wouldn't tell that 
Wouldn't I?
The young man, Mr. Davis, seems to be some kind of an unofficial observer a correspondent of some sort 
And the soldier  He looked at me so strangely  who is he?
You are fortunate in your father.
Thea is an orphan.
Cathy  how does it feel to have a father?
What an odd question!
I mean, does one love a father because he is good and kind or just because he is one's father?
Why, I love my father because  because I do. Of course, he's nice to me.
Thea  you're hiding something. Why do you suddenly speak of your father? You told me once you had never seen him  didn't know him 
I do not know him, but I have seen him.
What is it  what are you talking about?
You have forgotten my last name?
I have forgotten it, dear.
My last name is Pherides.
Thea, your choice is a very simple one. Either you want to claim him as your father, or you do not.
But one must love a father.
The General you don't even know him.
Come, Thea, if you're going to claim him as your father you've got to make up your mind. They'll be leaving any minute.
I don't know. As a child. I longed for a father and now  I don't know 
I felt he did not like me.
That should decide it or you 
I will let him go. He is dead to me as he is to all my mother's people. I turn my hand against him.
You should sleep, Cathy. Lie down and close your eyes. Try to forget everything.
When I close my eyes, I see Miss Wollsten. I can't think of anything else.
She is dead at peace.
Suppose, she isn't dead. Suppose it was a cataleptic attack?
It was, the plague
We quarreled. She never dared get angry or frightened  but I said things to her  it was an attack, I know it was.
Poor child. These must be horrible days for you.
I'm so ill, I'm so exhausted  I almost don't care.
Has that girl  has Thea ever told you where she comes from?
Some village in the mountains  Alethera, I think.
Has she spoken to you of her father and her mother?
She has never mentioned her family.
How old is she?
What are you doing?
I was looking for you.
I have been troubled about you. I want you to know that my room is just downstairs  You have only to cry out if you are ill or frightened.
How kind you are. It is so comforting to know that someone cares.
Miss Wollsten shares the room with you?
No, that's Thea's bed. Miss Wollsten's bed is in there.
It's getting dark. I can't leave now.
In the morning  go. I'll not die until then  I'll not die I'll watch  they shall not hurt you.
Shh it's all right  I'll be all right.
They shall not hurt you
You were singing, weren't you? A beautiful voice, Miss St. Aubyn.
That was my companion. She sings little peasant songs quite nicely  a completely untrained voice, of course.
I hope Mr. Jacks gets to bed in one piece.
M~ father will take care of it. Pappa is wonderful! No matter what happens, he makes me feel perfectly safe. I could never leave him. I should be utterly helpless by myself.
I adore hearing Thea sing  but my poor head's beginning to ache. I'm so sorry.
Of course. Tomorrow, perhaps, before I go?
I'm glad you and the General didn't have to leave us. We would feel quite deserted..
How could we go back to the wars with such pleasant company here..
Thank you.
Good night, Oliver.
Sleep well.
You're not leaving tomorrow..?
I think not.
I know it must be hard. But you have relatives in London you've got a whole world of living, ahead of you 
No one can take my father's place.
Where's Thea?
I think she went to bed I saw her going toward the house
Oh, no  it's too delicious! You're making it up!
On my word! That's what they believe.
Tell me about them, Thea. They have great wings end long teeth 
Sharp, shiny teeth  and they creep up to your bed 
Closer and closer  until they bite into your throat!
My father  I'm alone, Oliver, completely alone!
Poor Cathy 
Last night Dr. Drossos  today you or I  oh, no, Oliver, it can't be you, I couldn't stand it.
There's no reason to decide any of us are going to die.
If only we could get away   you and I. The others are strangers, they mean nothing to me
If Mr. Albrecht is right, we'll all be free in a few days. I suppose you'll be going on to Athens?
I don't know now without my father.
I have not been on the island in twenty years. It is changed  changed completely. Where are the graves  the coffins?
This was once a cemetery.
The enemy is in retreat. There will be no more fighting here. I came here to visit the crypts. My wife was buried here. What happened to the bodies?
They were gore before I came here.
But why?
There was some trouble here the villagers on the mainland this island was the focal point of their anger. They came here broke open the tombs and despoiled the graves.
All the graves?
I'm afraid so. There were rumors people were aroused. Some feared restlessness among the dead you know, the old superstitions.
I donut understand.
Perhaps I had better stay. I am tired.
I'll get Ida to make up your bed.
I'm not sure that it is the plague.
We will know when the next one sickens. Until then you and I remain here. I will not bring the plague to my troops.
In the meantime it would be useless to alarm the others. Let them think it was a normal And, perhaps it was  perhaps it was.
Did you hear what Thea said  as if she knew what threatens us.
That's impossible. I told them Jacks died of a sudden heart attack, probably brought on by over drinking.
Did your servant got word to Dr. Drossos?
Another sad task. We'll bury her tomorrow. I think we'd better lock the door for tonight. It will make them less uncomfortable.
No. She shall not be left here.
Maybe you're right. Help me get something to carry her downstairs.
If the wind shifts, if the sirocco blows  the hot wind from the South  all danger will be over in twentyfour hours.
Good winds and bad winds!
The ancient Greeks had just as good an explanation  that the gods sent the plague to punish mortals for harboring Vrykolaka 
They used to believe that sort of thing in the mountain villages. Some still do 
She's right. This is hardly the time to bandy old tales.
I have lived long enough to doubt everything  which is to say, I believe everything, a little.
You're just talking nonsense.
Let us put it to the test. Protect yourself with every scientific precaution you can think of. I'll go out on the cliff and build a votive fire to Hermes  not that I believe in him any more than I do in Science.
We will see who is the first to die.
Very well. I'll wager a dinner.
I suppose you want to hear my prayer to Hermes.
I just came to see if your prayer would entertain me as much as my medicine seems to amuse you.
) You feel the symptoms?
My friend  what can one say 
You can have your servants prepare a dinner. That is the way I'll meet my old familiar enemy  Death I have fought him before. I've won often. Now he wins. Let him come for me at my own banquet.
I'm here. The General is here. You are not alone.
I must meet him with laughter  with songs and laughter  to show him I am not afraid 
I took it for granted you gentlemen were refugees as are my other guests.
This is General Nikolas Pherides, Commander of the Third Army. I'm Oliver Davis. To be perfectly frank with you, we didn't expect to find anyone living here.
It is my home. My name is Hugo Albrecht.
But the gods played a little trick on me. I was born in Switzerland.
You collect these to sell, abroad?
He is exhausted.
Why don't you stay here tonight? Get a good sleep. You can return to your command in the morning.
I need your advice something has happened Mr. Jacks 
Drunk again?
He's dead. I want the General to see him.
He complained of not feeling well. I thought he was drunk he staggered.
That staggering. His dying so quickly. In your campaigns, have you never seen men who staggered before they died, who talked incoherently walked blindly.
I wonder if my editor's psychic? Reports from the Greek front are going to be a little vague.
Or even spirit messages from the next world.
I'd like to, very much  but it depends on what dispatches are waiting for me on the mainland.
In case you do so, would you 
It doesn't look much like the fish spears I knew back in Marblehead..
Our friend, Poseidon, didn't use it for fishing. He raked the sea with it and stirred up the big waves.
I'll go up and take a look at the General  perhaps sit with him.
He won't even know you're there. He is delirious.
All the more reason to watch him. He's had some wild notions lately.
Don't bother. Go to bed and get some sleep. I'll be working late. I can hear any movement down here.
Well 
Go ahead. I'll wake you up when I go to bed. Then you can watch him.
Thank you, I'll do that. Good night.
Goodbye.
May life be good to you both. As for the others they will be quiet here and I will be with them.
You don't have to. It's inside of you  all the glory that was Greece  the dancing, the singing and the white marble 
How clover you are, Mr. Albrecht, to see all that in our simple Thea... She is quite pretty, isn't she?
This was the temple of Hades the God of the Dead. It contained no images  just empty space and walls of perfect symmetry.
How disappointing! I expected it was something more romantic. A temple to the Goddess of Love, perhaps.
The Greeks thought death was beautiful  an adventure a journey to another world. But I have my other guests to think of  The General will be wanting to go back to his army. If you'll excuse me 
Where is Miss Wollsten?
She's in her room.
Can't talk right now.
See, it's not a macho thing. It's about equilibrium in your inner ear. You could've used a patch, but it's too late now. Get used to it. Some folks just can't sail.
We didn't get all dressed up for nothing.
Planter's Punch, Singapore Sling, or how about a MaiTai?
The last day of the season. Yeah, we heard.
So why are you still here?
There's ten people on this whole island and they're all gonna end up in this Jacuzzi with us.
How's the water?
Crowded.
I'm just saying what all of you are thinking. It's bad enough gettin' rained out without having to hold her hand the whole time.
You don't have to be a jerk.
Where is everybody?
They're all dead...Dead, I tell you. Ahhhh, we're all deaaaddddd. Tyrellll, joinnnn usss.
They're around...They just don't care about us 'cause we're the contest winners. Let's go find Stoner Boy...Make his lazy butt hook us up with fishing poles or PingPong paddles or something.
You know, the greenhouse effect has caused the gulf stream to shift and almost every meteorological expert expects a dramatic increase in tropical depression 
Hey  shut up, okay?
Take this.
And do what with it?
They were cut loose.
Julie? Wanna tell us what is going on here?
The porter...what's his name? Old Asbestos 
Estes! That's exactly who it is. That old guy knows something. We can sit here and wait for him to pick us off or we can go find him first.
We'll only be a second, okay?
Yeah, wait right here, it's the safest place.
Where'd Estes go?
What is up with that weirdo?
I'll go find him.
You guys lost?
Tell me this ain't the bar scene.
Wanna drink?
What's the matter, boy trouble?
Not anymore.
He leave you?
No. I shot him.
What's going on?
Julie thinks there's a dead guy in the closet.
Cool.
The rest of us see bathrobes.
I'm sorry, but you could've been the one doing all of this 
And so could you  crazy fool.
You stumbled into my hiding place.
Must have missed the sign.
Excuse me, but this island didn't have a murder rate until you people showed up. I've never seen a dead body before.
Jeez, that's a full carat 
How much?
Well, there's some flaws in her...
How much?
Don't really have the market for something like this... I can go two...twofifty.
Make it three hundred. And throw that in, too.
Hell, that's worth three, easy. And you got your waiting period.
I'm not waiting...So give me the gun and keep the ring.
Mark in the Morning! Magic 96.7! Oh my God! I'm Karla. Karla Wilson. Jules, it's Mark in the Morning.
Well, Karla, what're you doin' at home over the long fourth weekend?
Well, I'm in school and 
How'd you like to win a Magic 96.7 Quicky Getaway?
Yes!
Still here...thinking... You mean Brazil, the country?
Okay, Karla, five seconds. Five...Four...
Rio de Janeiro!
Oh, no...Did you say Rio?
No. Yes?
Waaaaahhhhhhhhhh!
We'll call you back with all the details...So what's your favorite radio station?
Julie, is everything cool? Karla said...
I said we start having fun. And that means now.
To a great weekend 
Yeah, a great weekend. Forget the weather!
Come on, it'll be fun.
Ladies and gentlemen, please put your hands together for my friend, my very best friend, Julie James.
Ahh, that feels great.
How's Julie?
Alone. In the room. Got any advise?
Why? He can't help us.
He's probably the only one who can help us.
You know what I want to do to you ...right now, don't you? There's gotta be somewhere we can be alone.
I don't think so. It's pretty crowded.
Just for a minute, baby. I got something I wanna tell you.
If you can say all you gotta say in a minute then I don't wanna hear it.
I'll talk real slow.
Worse comes to worse, you can stand there and watch me.
Come on, I'll take a break and we'll all dance.
Is there a problem here?
Where there's a Will, there's a way. Come on.
Something is gonna hit your butt if you don't quit complaining.
Honey, some folks just can't fly.
Ain't nothin' free in this world. Everybody says it, and it's true. I wanted you all to have a good trip.
We will, baby...All this means is we got the whole island to ourselves.
Oooh, the mainland 
Somebody's gone tropical on us, baby. Tropical!
Guess the capital of Brazil 
Rio, baby!
Pretty cool bar.
They all start to look the same once you've worked in one. Am I right, sister?
Tha's it. I've decided. I'm changing my major to finance. And going to Wall Street.
Why?
'Cause that's the only way I'm ever gonna be able to afford a big bed like this.
You sure you didn't pick up my hair tie?
Hello?
Okay, I just didn't wanna get my hair wet.
Baby, I finally got you alone in this Jacuzzi and I don't wanna be discussin' hair care.
I used to be a lifeguard...I'd hate to have to blow my whistle.
I'd hate for you to have to blow...your whistle.
Oh, look. Another day in paradise with Julieyourtourdirector...Miss Psychotic Episode.
Hey 
See any dead bodies out there? Any fresh kill? How 'bout Freddy, Jason?
Somebody...is a sick, fingerpainting psycho.
We gotta get out of here. Now.
I'll come with you.
Are you crazy? We're not staying here on our own.
Maybe we should just wait here? Hide in a tree?
I'm not hiding up no tree. I'm with her. Let's arm ourselves to the teeth and kick this psycho's butt.
You think that's a good place to hide?
I don't know, but I'm starving.
Julie! Wait! You okay?
I'm fine.
You sure?
I'm fine.
You don't seem fine.
The shower again?
It was in a church...it was so real. I mean, I could feel his breath on me.
I'm sorry.
I thought I was over the dreams for good. I really did. I hadn't had one for months.
It just takes time, Julie. It's gonna get better.
It can't get worse. I mean, it's not like this was the first time I freaked out in class. I hardly ever get a full night's sleep, my grades suck, I'm this close from being thrown out of school.
It was one year ago...
It's...the anniversary. That's what's going on...Take it easy on yourself.
I'm trying. I really am...Sometimes I don't even know why I came up here in the first place.
To get out of Southport?
Right. Now I remember.
Nah. I'll probably just be here studying for finals. The joys of summer school... Are you okay?
I'm okay.
Are you sure?
This was not my idea.
What?
I said, this...Do you want a drink?
Just take deep breaths and think of something happy from childhood.
What if I don't have anything happy from childhood...Sorry, I can't relax going five hundred miles an hour, or four thousand, four hundred feet a minute... Which is over seven hundred feet a second. Imagine hitting something at seven hundred feet a second.
Deep breaths 
Fumes build up in the fuel tanks. You can by surfacetoair missiles over the internet. Planes use Orings...which freeze in tap water. Planes fall from the sky for practically no reason at all.
You've got a better chance of getting hit by lightning.
Right. Planes get hit by lightning. They get hit by meteors. They hit other planes.
And it's been blue skies all day. It might be perfect all weekend.
It beets being on the mainland.
You sure it's okay with you?
Sure. It's fine. As long as you don't snore.
You can toss a shoe at me if it gets out of hand.
Julie? What's wrong?
It's...him.
What do you mean, Julie?
He did something to the screen...it, it, said...
Oh, Will! I'm sorry.
It's my fault. I shouldn't have...I didn't think...
No, no, no. This was really sweet...
I scared you  I crossed the line 
No  it's not that. It's...I'm just a little on edge. I'm really sorry.
Hey, you don't have to appologize to me. I'm the one. I understand. I'm going to take a walk and dry off.
Are you sure? I really appreciate it.
What? What are you talking about? Where?
It's in my room!
There was a body! I swear it!
Julie, you said you were tired. Waybe you were dreaming.
I wasn't dreaming.
Come on. We're gonna be okay.
Did you get help?
Estes came after me with a gaffing hook.
He's in it with Willis?
I guess so.
Why are you doing this to me?
Me, me, me. It's always about you. I'm having bad dreams. I can't sleep. I'm not doing well in school. I'm having trouble with my boyfriend.
I trusted you.
We had a connection, didn't we? I can tell you one thing, though. Ray didn't trust me. He was right. He's dead, but he was right.
...Why?
Why? Come on, Julie. Think. You'll get it. Will Benson  Ben's son.
You're the most beautiful woman in the bar tonight, Jules.
Tyrell, you are an unstoppable force of nature.
That's right. It's how the species survives. You'll never convince me otherwise. Wanna dance?
I am not crazy, Tyrell. He was right there.
Fine. Show me the body.
We're all going to die. He's going to kill us one by one.
Who?
Ben Willis.
Voodoo.
I told you.
You've got all these theories but where is he? Where? Where's your fisherman killer?
I don't know.
You never do...The guy at the nightclub, the body in your room last night. Little notes that only mean something to you. How do we even know you're not the one behind this 
Don't kill me 
Wait, it's Nancy 
I got in early. I was excited... Who was that guy?
Oh, that's Will. He's a friend. You'd like him.
Yeah.
Ray, we're just friend.
Every guy in history who tried to pick up a girl did the goodfriend thing first.
Why are you being like this?
Ray, I can't...
Can't what?
I just feel like some part of me hasn't healed up enough to go back. Like some critical piece is missing. Please understand...
I understand something.
It's not like that. It's not you. It's me. My head. I want to go back. I want to be with you. I want to be fine. I want everything to be like it used to be. It just isn't.
Hey. I'm really glad you called... I'm sorry.
No, you don't have to be sorry. I'm the one 
No, I shouldn't have left so fast... I was just...
It's okay.
Ray, Karla won a trip to the Bahamas! An island called Tower Bay. And she wants us to come with her.
What? The Bahamas? You're kidding.
We'd have a long weekend just to sit in the sun, drink fruity drinks, and swim, and... You know...
This weekend?
Julie, we're working a big run up here. It's been crazy. We probably have to go out again tonight. I don't think I can do it.
Will you try...for me, please?
Okay, I'll try. But, listen... If I don't make it up, then you go ahead and have a great time.
Ray...please try. I really miss you. Okay. Bye.
Ray...what are you doing?
Oh...it's not working right. You're home early. Did I scare you?
Never do that again.
Hey  I didn't know you were here. It's okay. We got the refrigerator in. Come see.
I love it here.
It's gonna be great.
Checking the locks again?
You know me to well.
I thought you were out of town!
What are you doing in my closet?
I thought you were out of town!
What are you doing in my closet?
i just wanted your black pants, but I'm not ready to die for them!
That was heart attack time, Karla.
No. When I put these skinny pants on my body...Now, that's heart attack time.
I'm not going anywhere. I'm fat, ugly, and depressed.
Yeah, right  whatever.
I think I just really hurt Ray's feelings.
Listen to me, Julie. Ray's a great guy, nothing against old Ray, but he's so...Ray. I mean, he lives in Southport. Will's a nice guy, too, and he lives right down the street.
There's nothing between Will and me.
Yet. Nothing yet.
Say yes.
No.
No means yes.
Tyrell, I appreciate it, but have you seen my people dance? We make the mouth face, we move the fingers 
Karla! Did you tell him I'd be here?
Nope. I told him that you absolutely, positively would not be here at this bar between ten o'clock and eleven o'clock tonight. And then he came anyway.
That could break the machine.
Julie, people who end up making rules like that end up beating their kids with wire hangers. It's a fact.
The number's unlisted...
Would you relax? We've been dating three months. He ain't stalking your butt.
Okay, okay. You're right.
I know it, and it feels good. Hi, Ty.
You gotta sell his butt on the Bahamas?
Ray, come on. I want us to be together.
He's not coming. I thought he was just...
Julie, you left four messages... Four.
But, he said he'd try.
He said he'd try. Try is like maybe. Try is nothing!
He does work hard.
Work hard, huh? He's breaking your heart just because he can. And I don't want to have to say I told you so...
Then, don't.
Oh!
Hey, sorry... He's my friend, too. And that ticket is not going to waste.
I'm the King of the World.
No, I'm the King of the World.
Remind me to study real hard so someday this is normal and all that back there is somethin' I do for a weekend once every ten years.
I will, and you remind me of the same thing.
Hello? Hello?
Where is everyone? I'll ask 
Their stuff in there... ...and ours in here.
Karla! You promised.
I also promised Tyrell.
Am I bad? I mean, he's really great, and he's cute 
He's cute...And he's got a crush on you... But...
I miss Ray...I tried to call him.
Karaoke  perfect.
Don't even think about it.
Okay, I won't.
No way.
Yes.
No.
Yes.
Not me...no way...
Think about this, Julie. What did you actually see?
The dockhand guy. Hanging by his neck from up there.
You get any sleep at all?
Some.
It's okay...He doesn't believe me. That's his right. I'm starting to think I'm crazy, too.
Hey, slow down, turn off the little motor up in there...What do you say we go to the gym and work off a little stress?
Nice move.
I'll be givin' your fisherman some of that and see how he likes it.
Cancer in a box.
No, this is the safe sun. It's better than a day at the beach.
Karla!
Just kidding.
I'm not crazy...I'm not crazy. He's here... We've got to get to the radio and call for help.
I think we can classify this as an emergency situation.
Oh, stop it! He's dead. You killed him. Now, get over it. We gotta think here.
They never found the body.
Julie...
Only he wasn't dead. He killed Barry and Helen last July Fourth.
Let him go. I believe him.
Come on, Julie. You saw his room.
What do you mean?
Rio isn't the capital of Brazil. It was the wrong answer. Sorry, we lose.
I know I don't want to stay in here.
We'll be better off in the open. If we stick together, maybe we can kill this creep for good.
Be careful, Julie.
I've got to see.
Julie, the boats are gone, the phones are down. There's no way off this place.
Then, we fight 
I'm your best friend...You could have told me the truth about what happened. I would've understood.
Karla, I just wanted the whole thing to be over. I didn't want to involve anybody else.
It's too late for that.
There's no way to lock it.
What do we do?
I don't know...
Come on, you can make it.
Julie?
I'm right here. Grab my hand.
I'm holding your hand!
No, you're not.
...Nancy?
Oh, god, it's you 
You're okay. Thank god.
Is he?
Get lost, you scared me.
Fish are all over the water...Come on, let us take a boat out.
Titus, you're so stoned, you'd end up in Spain.
That's why you'll come with Titus, mon.
There's a storm comin', Titus. No boats are going out.
Storm is what makes it interesting. Thass why all the fish are up. Less hook us a couple big ones.
I got work to do. Take the bake elsewhere.
Uptighteous and selfrighteous.
You'll go away with you're college friends, but you won't go away with me?
Idiot. Idiot. Idiot.
Stupid. Stupid.
Stupid. What were you thinkng?
Jeez, Ray, fourth and forty, throw the bomb.
I should go up there. I should call her back, tell her I'm coming.
No way, man. Surprise her. She'll be psyched.
I don't know, man. Maybe we should keep going, find a phone 
No.
The guy looks dead.
It sure is a beautiful old hotel.
Built in 1948 for a member of the Rockefeller clan. The tile work was imported from Spain. A lot of history in these walls...Judy Garland stayed here...Hemmingway fished for marlin right off that dock 
Your what?
Honeymoon suites. I take it you kids haven't exchanged vows, yet?
We haven't exchanged anything.
Storm season?
It's our version of winter. 201 and 202. There's Scrabble and Parcheesi in the lobby. Enjoy.
Listen to me. He's here.
Who? Who is here?
I want off this island.
Not possible, I'm afraid. The last ferry left hours ago. And we got a storm coming. There won't be another one for days.
Then I'll call the mainland for a charter.
Phones went down a few minutes ago.
What can I do for you?
Checking in...Karla Wilson.
You're in 201 and 202.
Is that bad?
Not at all. Those are our honeymoon suites.
Julie, we're talkin' suites! That'll be just fine with us.
And, while you're here, our marginally trained, offseason staff of five will attend to your every need.
Wait...Did you say offseason?
July fourth weekend. Storm season starts today. The clouds roll in like clockwork.
Duh. The next couple of days is gonna be rough, but we'll make it.
What about a radio?
Sorry. Emergencies only.
What the hell would you call this?
I'd call this four spoiled city kids who wouldn't know a hurricane if it blew up their butts. All we can do now is batten down and ride it out. If things get really bad, there's a storm shelter.
You haven't the vaguest conception under God of what you ask!
Au contraire, monsieur, I have.
You promise to care for her then?
Yes...
And you know what you ask for?
Yes.
What do you think she is, Madeleine? A doll?
A child who can't die...
And the child who did die?
My daughter...
Look at the gaslight. Don't tke your eyes off it. You will be drained to the point of death, but you must stay alive. Do you hear me?
Yes!
So you want me to tell you the story of my life...
That's what I do. I interview people. I collect lives. F.M. radio. F.F.R.C. I just interviewed a genuine hero, a cop who 
You'd have to have a lot of tape for my story. I've had a very unusual life.
So much the better. I've got a pocket full of tapes.
You followed me here, didn't you?
Saw you in the street outside. You seemed interesting. Is this where you live?
It's just a room...
So shall we begin? What do yo do?
I'm a vampire.
See? I knew you were interesting. You mean this literally, I take it?
Absolutely. I was watching you watching me. I was waiting for you in that alleyway. And then you began to speak.
Well, what a lucky break for me.
Perhaps lucky for both of us.
You were going to kill me? Drink my blood?
Yes but you needn't worry about that now. Things change.
You believe this, don't you? That you're a vampire? You really think...
We can't begin this way. Let me turn on the light.
But I thought vampires didn't like the light.
We love it. I only wanted to prepare you.
How did you do that?
The same way you do it. A series of simple gestures. Only I moved too fast for you to see. I'm flesh and blood, you see. But not human. I haven't been human for two hundred years.
What can I do to put you at ease? Shall we begin like David Copperfield? I am born, I grow up. Or shall we begin when I was born to darkness, as I call it. That's really where we should start, don't you think?
You're not lying to me, are you?
Why should I lie? 1791 was the year it happened. I was twentyfour  younger than you are now.
Yes.
But times were different then. I was a man at that age. The master of a large plantation just south of New Orleans...
You said the slave had a crucifix...
Oh, that rumour about crosses?
You can't look at them...
Nonsense, my friend. I can look on anything I like. And I am particularly fond of looking on crucifixes.
The story about stakes through the heart?
The same. As you would say today... Bull shit.
What about coffins?
Coffins... coffins unfortunately are a necessity...
You loved Yvette...
Can a vampire feel love?
You loved your wife, surely.
I was human then. Might as well ask can an angel feel love. Both are blesses or cursed with a certain... detachment. Though whether angels take as long to learn it as I, I will never know.
Shall we go on?
He did it to make you stay with him!
Perhaps. He knew me. He knew I would love her more than the waking world. But there was more to it than that. Perhaps in the end he did it  to show me that he could. For he lavished affection on her, there was no doubt about that. Life was very different with madame Claudia, as you can imagine...
But why did you tell her?
How could I not? She had to know.
And did you lose her? Did she go?
Where would she have gone? She was a child, and beautiful, heartbreaking merciless child. And I had made her that...
Did he die in the fire?
He was dead to us. We were free. That was all that mattered.
You found nothing?
Peasant rumours, superstitions about garlic, crosses, stakes in the hear, all that  how do you say again? Bull shit. But one of our kind? Not a whisper.
No vampires in Transylvania? No Count Dracula?
Fictions, my friend. The vulgar fictions of a demented Irishman... So we repaired to Paris...
Lestat escaped the fire!
He hadn't even been there. And all those years I thought he was dead.
No... it can't end like that...
But it has. There is no more to tell.
But you talk about passion, about longing, about things I'll never know in my life! It's still inside you, in every syllable you speak! And then you tell me it ends like that? Just empty?
It's over, I'm telling you...
You need a new passion, Louis, a new reason to feel... what a story you've told, you don't understand yourself.
Is this what you want? You ask me for this after all I've told you?
If I could see what you've seen, feel what you've felt I wouldn't let it end like this! You need a like to the world out there, a connection... then it won't end like this...
Dear God. I've failed again, haven't I?
No...
Don't say anymore. The reels are still turning. I have but one chance to show you the meaning of what I've said.
They would have killed you 
Then my luck would have changed.
You want death? Is it death you want?
Yes...
Who the hell are you? What are you doing in my house?
And a beautiful house it is too. Yours is a good life, isn't it?
You're not afraid of anything, are you?
Why should I be?
What do you want from me?
I've come to answer your prayers. You want to die, don't you? Life has no meaning anymore, does it?
Diane!!!!
They are gone, Louis. Death took them. Death which you can now destroy...
NO!!!!!
You have to ask me for this. You have to want it, do you hear me?
Give it to me!!!
Vampires. We thrive on blood.
I want it!
You let your overseer run riot, work your slaves to the bone. We'll start with him.
How do you mean, start?
Call him.
Let's call that a start.
I can't do it.
You've just done it 
Kill me if you will, but I can't do this...
Don't worry. He was white trash, they come at two a penny. I dumped him in the swamp and untied the slave, licked his wounds clean.
You're the devil, aren't you? That's who you are.
I wish I were. But if I were, what would I want with you?
I can't go through with it, I tell you.
Your perfect. Your bitter and you're strong.
But why do you want me?
Because you're as strong as I was when I was alive.
You really want to be with them?
Yes. Kill me. Kill me like you promised 
You asked for death. I didn't promise it 
Did I hear a yes?
Yes...
You're sure?
Sure...
You're body's dying. Pay no attention. It will take twenty minutes at most.
Dying?
Come, you're going to feed now.
I want a woman.
Take him.
The crucifix 
Forget the crucifix. Take him.
What have I done?
You have fed. You were made for this...
Dear God, what have I done?
You've killed Louis. And enjoyed it.
Yes, that's you, my handsome friend. And you'll look that way till the stars fall from heaven.
It can't be...
Give it time. You're like a man who loses a limb and still imagines he feels pain. It will pass. And we must sleep now. I can feel the sun approaching.
You must get into it. It's the only safe place for you when the light comes.
And if I don't?
The sun will destroy the blood I've given you. Every tissue, every vein. The fire in this lantern could do that too.
You'll get used to killing. Just forget about that mortal coil. You'll become accustomed to things all too quickly.
Do you think so?
I know. It gets cold so fast.
We can live like this? Off the blood of animals?
There's nothing in the world now that doesn't hold some...
Fascination...
Yes. And I'm bored with this prattle 
But we can live without taking human life. It's possible.
Anything is possible. But just try it for a week. Come into New Orleans and let me show you some real sport!
Have you ever been caught?
Of course not. It's so easy you almost feel sorry for them.
The trick is not to think about it. See that one? The widow St. Clair? she had that gorgeous young fop murder her husband. She's perfect for you. Go ahead.
But how do you know?
Read her thoughts.
I can't.
The dark gift is different for each of us. But one thing is true of everyone. We grow stronger as we go along.
What have you done to me? You've condemned me to hell.
I don't know any hell 
Consider yourself lucky. In Paris a vampire has to be clever for many reasons. Here all one needs is a pair of fangs.
Paris? You came from Paris?
As did the one who made me.
Tell me about him. You must have lernt something from him! It had to happen for you as it did for me!
I learnt absolutely nothing. I wasn't give a choice, remember?
But you must know something about the meaning of it all, you must know where we come from, why we...
They know about us. They see us dine on empty plates and drink from empty glasses.
Come the New Orleans then. There's an opera on tonight. A real french opera! We can dine in splendour!
I respect life, don't you see? For each and every human life I have respect.
Respect me a little then. I'm the only life you know.
You fool, what have you done?
What you wouldn't do. It's almost sunrise. It will be the sun or the fire. You said they can kill me. The sun or the fire!
Where are we?
Where do you think, my idiot friend? We're in a nice filthy cemetery. Does this make you happy? Is this fitting and proper enough?
We belong in hell.
And what if there is no hell, or they don't want us there? Ever think of that?
What, no flowery speeches? About what a monster I am? What a vulgar fiend?
I'm not interested in you. You disgust me. I'm interested in my own nature and know I can't trust you to tell me the truth about me.
What do you imagine you are Louis?
I don't pretend to know.
Don't you understand, Louis, that you alone of all creatures can see death with impunity... you alone under the rising moon can strike like the hand of God.
Lestat, she's alive!!!!
Vampires are killers. Predators, who's all seeing eyes were meant to give them detachment.
The girl, Lestat 
I know. Let her alone.
Why do you do this Lestat?
I like to do it. I enjoy it. Take you aesthete's taste to purer things. Kill them swiftly if you will, but do it! For now doubt, you are a killer Louis. Ah!
Lestat  finish this 
You finish her  if you feel so much 
Unless I make her one of us...
NO!!!
THEN YOU KILL HER!!!!!
My God... to think you... are all I have to learn from...
In the old world, they called it the dark gift, Louis. And I gave it to you.
Pain is terrible for you. You feel it like no other creature because you are a vampire. You don't want it to go on.
No...
Do what it is in your nature to do. And you will feel as you felt with that child in your arms.
Oh God Lestat. I felt peace. I felt an end to the craving.
That and more.
Evil is a point of view. God kills, indiscriminately, and so shall we. For no creatures under God are as we are, none so like him as ourselves.
Is God merciless? Greedy and cruel?
Ah, but we have even more in common with our creator. come, I am like a mother tonight. I want a child.
She's here, your wounded one.
What are you saying?
You need company, Louis. More congenial than mine...
Lestat!
You remember how you wanted her, the taste of her 
I didn't want to kill her.
Don't worry, Louis, you're conscience is clear. You left her alive.
Claudia, Claudia, listen to me. You're ill, my precious and I'm going to give you what you need to get well.
Lestat, what do you mean?
You are the devil! You are the instrument of Satan!
That's enough, cherie. Stop before the heart stops.
Your mama's left you with us. She wants you to be happy.
You are the devil! You are the instrument of Satan!
Shhhh! Do you want to frighten our little daughter?
Claudia, Claudia, will you never learn? Who will we get now to finish your dress? A little practicality, cherie...
She would sleep in my coffin, daily, curl her child's fingers round my hair as she dreamt of I know not what...
Claudia! Don't do this thing!!!
Louis, Louis, I gave you the gift  help me 
No... You come back to me Louis...
Are you mad????
You'll come home with me Louis? Fro a little while... until I am myself again.
CLAUDIA!!!
I'm so glad you're here Louis... I've dreamed of your coming...
Don't try to speak... it's alright...
I didn't mean to let them do it... that Santiago, he tricked me...
That's all past, Lestat.
Yes. Past... she should never have been one of us...
Still beautiful Louis. You always were the strong one.
Don't fear me, Lestat. I bring you no harm.
You've come back to me, Louis? You've come again to me?
It's only a siren...
I can't bear it Louis! The machines out there, that fly and that roar! And such lights! They make the night brighter than the day!
And they frighten you?
You know I love the dark. But there's no dark anymore.
It's false light, Lestat. It can't harm you...
If you stayed with me Louis, I could venture out... little by little... become the old Lestat.
I have to go now Lestat...
You remember how I was, Louis.. the vampire Lestat...
Yes. I remember...
I tried to tell you Louis... that night in Paris... when I first came to you... noone can refuse the dark gift, Louis... not even you.
I tried...
And the more you tried, the more I wanted you... a vampire with your beautiful, suffering human heart. And how you suffered... I need your forgiveness, Louis.
You have it...
I want more.
What have you done?
How did you learn to write, Claudia?
The way I learn everything. By watching you.
But you never let me see you kill, Louis.
Lestat taught you all you need to know about that.
Infant death, he calls me. Sweet daughter death. You know what he calls you? Merciful death.
He jests.
Why does he call you that?
Hush, Claudia don't talk about such things. Show me your book.
Claudia! You did that?
Sit still. It's not finished 
You want me to be a doll forever?
Claudia  don't 
Why not?
We're immortal. You've always known that.
Tell me why...you've got to tell me...
You see the old woman? That will never happen to you. You'll never grow old. You will never die.
And it means something else too, doesn't it? I shall never, ever grow up.
You... fed on me?
And he found me with you. I ran, sickened at what I'd done. Then he cut his wrist and fed you from him. I tried to stop him, but you were a vampire then. And have been every night hereafter.
You both did it?
I took your life. He gave you another one.
But now's the time to end it, Louis. Now's the time to leave him.
He'll never let us go.
Lestat. Oh, God forgive us.
Don't mock me, Louis. Help me.
He's dead, Claudia, dead.
The one good lesson he taught me, Louis. Never drink from the dead.
Should we burn him? Bury him? What would he have liked, Louis?
Don't mock, Claudia...
The swamp...
In Europe, Louis. We shall meet our own kind. Find the one who made him. Learn what it means.
And suppose the one who made him knows nothing and the vampire who made him knows nothing, and it goes back, nothing proceeding from nothing, until there is nothing! And we must live with the knowledge that there is no knowledge.
He belongs with those reptiles, Louis. He deserved to die.
Then maybe so do we. Every night of our lives. He was my brother. My maker. He gave me this life, whatever it is.
I did it for us, Louis. So we could be free.
Louis, look at me.
I can't. Go away from me.
You never talked to me like that  in all these years.
And you never cried 
I can't bear it when you do  I would die rather than lose you Louis. I would die the way he died.
Hush, Claudia, hush now my dear 
Tell me you don't hate me Louis. I did it for you 
What was that?
The workmen must have a trunk  don't stop, cherie 
It can't be 
It is! Take the back stairwell 
The ship is sailing wihout us!
Not yet.
How do I look?
Still my beautiful child.
A beautiful child! Is that what you still think I am?
Yes...
You want me to be your daughter forever, don't you?
Yes.
Well tell me, papa. What was it like making love?
You don't remember? Or you never knew.
It was something hurries...and seldom savoured... something acute that was quickly lost. It was the pale shadow of killing.
But how will I ever know, Louis?
Or her, or her  or any of them?
Claudia, you torture yourself.
They are ducklings, that will grow into swans. Whereas I must be the duckling forever.
You are more beautiful than any of them.
Are they my kind Louis? Dolls never change either.
You are neither, Claudia. Now stop this 
You know her?
Yes. Should I take her, Louis? Among her dolls? make a doll of her in turn?
Come, Claudia...
But this can't be real. This is nonsense.
Nonsense all right. But something tell me it's going to be the strangest nonsense we've ever seen.
Mortals, mortals everywhere. And lots of drops to drink.
They are here. I know they are. Listen for something that doesn't make a sound.
They use no paint. And the audience think it is paint.
How devilishly clever.
She's no vampire.
No. She's frightened. She doesn't know where she is.
This is no performance.
And no one knows but us...
This is monstrous!
Yes, and very beautiful.
I've seen enough of this! I loathe it!
Be still!
I lothe them! I can't stand the sight of them! Stupid bourgeois Parisians, all dressed in black like some private club! I've searched for them the world over and I despise them!
What danger?
I can feel it from them! They want to know who made us, what became of him. They have their rules, their idiotic rules!
Do you think I would let them harm you?
No, you would not, Louis. Danger hold you to me.
Love holds you to me. And we are in danger, not you.
Love?
You would leave me for Armand if he beckoned you.
Never.
He wants you as you want him. He's been waiting for you. He wants you for a companion. He bides his time that place. he finds them as dull and lifeless as we do.
That's not so.
Do you know what his soul said to me without saying a word? When he put me in that trance...
So you felt it too!
Let him go, he said. Let him go.
He can protect us, Claudia.
You really believe that?
How do we seem to you? Do you think us beautiful, magical, our white skin, our fierce eyes? Drink, you ask me! Have you any idea of the thing you will become?
Your evil is that you cannot be evil! And I will suffer for it no longer!
Don't make me, Claudia! I cannot do it!
Yet you could do it to me! Snatching me from my mother's hands like two monsters in a fairytale! Couldn't you have waited? Six more years and I would have had that shape! And now you weep! You haven't tears enough for what you've done to me.
Oh God! I love you still, that's the torment of it. But you know I must leave you Louis...
Yes...
And who will care for me my love, my dark angel, when you are gone?
She is dying. It happened to you too, but your child's mind can't remember.
But if she dies...
It's only mortal death.
Bear me no ill will, my love. We are now even.
What do you mean?
What died tonight inside that room was not that woman. It will take her many nights to die, perhaps yeaars. What has died in that room tonight is the last vestige in me of what was human.
More.
Yes, cherie, of course you want more. And I'll show you how to get it. You drink from morals, my beauty, but from me? Never again.
I want some more.
It's bet in the beginning, lest the death takes you down with it. yes, that's it. My child. My beloved child.
I'm not your daughter.
Yes you are, my dearest. You are mine and Louis' daughter. You see Louis was going to leave us. He was going to go away. But now he's not. He's going to stay and make you happy.
Why always on this night?
What night? What do you mean?
You always give me the doll on the same night of the year.
I didn't realise.
Is this my birthday?
Some of these are so old and tattered. You should throw them away.
I have. Or there would be twice as many.
But you're the fairest by far.
You dress me like a doll. You make my hair like a doll. Why?
Which of you did it? Which of you made me the way I am?
What you are? You would be something other than you are?
And if I cut my hair again?
It will grow back again!
But it wasn't always so! I had a mother once! And Louis  he had a wife! He was mortal the same as she! And so was I!
You made us what we are, didn't you?
Stop her Louis!
DID YOU DO IT TO ME????
Why yours alone? Tell me how it was done!!!!
Be glad I made you what you are! You'd be dead not if I hadn't.
What is it now? You irritate me! Your very presence irritates me!
Does it?
Yes. And I'll tell you something else! I've met someone who will make a better vampire than both of you.
Is that supposed to frighten me?
You're spoilt because you're an only child. You need a brother. Or I do. I'm weary of you both.
I suppose we could people the world with vampires, the three of us.
Not you my dear.
You're a liar. But you upset my plans.
What plans?
I came to make peace with you, even if you're the father of lies. I want things to be as they were.
Stop pestering me then!
Oh, Lestat. I must do more than that. I've brought a present for you.
Then I hope its a beautiful woman with endowments you will never possess.
Oh, Claudia, you've outdone yourself. Where did you find them?
Drunk on brandy wine. A thimblefull. I thought of you when I saw them.
We forgive each other then?
Absinthe? You gave then absinthe?
No. Laudanum.
Laudanum!
Yes. It killed them, unfortunately. But it keeps the blood warm.
Don't Louis 
Louis, put me in my coffin...
I'll put you in your coffin. Forever.
Monstrous.
Yes, and very beautiful.
Your lips, they didn't move.
They did, but too fast for you to see them. No magic, just grace and speed.
Disappointing, isn't it? To come so far and find so little. Jaded ingenues, amusing themselves with make believe...
We had feared we were the only ones...
But how did you come into existence?
You don't want to answer... Two vampires from the new world, come to guide us into the new era as all we love slowly rots and fades away.
Are you the leader of tis group?
If there were a leader, I would be the one.
So you have the answers...
Ah! You have questions?
What are we?
Nothing if not vampires...
Who made us what we are?
Surely you know the one who made you...
But the one who made him, who made the one who made him, the source of all this evil...
That is a picture, nothing more.
You mean we are not children of Satan?
No.
I understand. I saw you in the theatre, your suffering, your sympathy for that girl. I saw you with the boy. You die when you kill, you feel you deserve to die and you stint on nothing. But does that make you evil? Or, since you comprehend what you call goodness, does it not make you good?
Then there is nothing.
Perhaps...
And perhaps this is the only real evil left...
Then God does not exist...
I have not spoken to him...
And no vampire here has discourse with God or the Devil?
None that I've ever known. I know nothing of God or the Devil, I have never seen a vision nor learnt a secret that would damn or save my soul. And as far as I know, after four hundred years I am the oldest living vampire in the world.
My God... So it's as I always feared. Nothing, leading to nothing.
You fell too much. So much you make me feel...
The one who made you should have told you this. The one who left the old world for the new...
He knew nothing. He just didn't care.
Knew? You mean he is...
I was waiting for you...
Listen to me.
Claudia is dear to me. My... daughter.
Your lover.
No, my beloved, my child.
If you say so. You are innocent.
I'm not innocent. But I'm afraid. She feels she's in danger from the others.
She is.
But why?
I could give you reasons. Her silence. Her youth. It's forbidden to make so young, so helpless, that cannot survive on its own.
Then blame the one who made her...
Did you kill this vampire who made you both? Is that why you won't say his name? Santiago thinks you did.
We want no quarrel with him.
It's already begun. If you want to save her, send her away.
Then I leave too.
So soon? Without any of those answers you so longed for?
You said there were none.
But you asked the wrong questions. Do you know how few vampires have the stamina for immortality? How quickly they perish of their own will.
We can do that?
You would never give up life. If the world were reduced to one empty cell, on fragile candle, you stay alive and study it. You see too clearly. You see too much.
That's what the one who made me said.
How he must have loved you.
And the vampires of the Theatre?
Like moths around the candle of the age. Decadent, useless. They can't reflect anything. But you do. You reflect its broken heart.
Are these not the answers you came for?
Yes... My God...
A vampire with a human soul. An immortal with a mortal's passion. You are beautiful, my friend. Lestat must have wept when he made you 
Lestat! You knew Lestat!
Yes I knew him. Knew him well enough not to mourn his passing.
Where is she? Where's Claudia?
Follow me  that way  through my cell 
Not without Claudia. Where is she?
I can't save her.
You can't believe I'd leave without her. Armand! You must save her! You have no choice.
Louis, I can't save her. I will only risk losing you 
I couldn't prevent it.
I don't believe you. I do not have to read your soul to know that you lie.
Louis, they cannot be brought back. There are some things that are impossible, even for me.
You let them do it.
You held sway over them. They feared you. You wanted it to happen.
Louis, I swear I did not.
I understand you only too well. You let them do it, as I let Lestat turn a child into a demon. As I let her rip Lestat's heart to pieces! Well I am no longer that passive fool that has spun evil from evil till the web traps the one who made it. Your melancholy spirit of this century! I know what I must do. And i warn you  you saved me tonight, so I return the favour  do not go near your cell in the Theatre Des Vampires again.
You didn't even warm them, did you?
No.
And yet you knew what I would o.
I knew. I rescued you, didn't I? From the terrible dawn.
You were their leader. They trusted you.
You made me see their failings, Louis. You made me look at them with your eyes.
Your melancholy eyes...
What a pair we are. We deserve each other, don't we?
We are a pair, and that's what counts.
No game.
The phone call. The knapsack.
I'm sorry?
I said you're going to get a phone call.
Oh?
Kay Connell had a signed copy of one of your books.
Thought you might find that.
You're going to be brought in for questioning.
Down at the station?
Yes down at the station.
She was only seventeen.
But she was an attractive girl.
I suppose.
Did you have sex with her?
No.
But you wanted to.
I was a mentor to her.
You gave her gifts.
Yes.
Expensive dresses. A heart necklace.
Yes.
Doesn't sound like a mentor to me.
I gave her things she didn't have. Couldn't have.
What about him?
He. Well, he...
Randy Stetz is in jail.
Told you I could write an ending.
Congratulations.
I thought maybe we could talk some more.
There's nothing more to talk about.
But we work so well together...
What the hell do you know?
Kay told me. She comes to me, you know. Tells me things. About you. About me.
I told you that was an accident!
Then so was mine...
Don't you pull that shit with me.
I didn't want to kill her, Will.
Couldn't get it up, Walter?
It was when I went to kiss her. She started laughing. I got angry. After all I'd given her. All I'd shared with her. I just wanted to make her stop. That's all.
Yes. Like that.
This an accident, Walter?
If you want it to be...
Where's your backup?
No backup.
You're not following procedure.
Procedure went out the window a long time ago.
Wild card.
Drop the gun, Walter.
I never met anyone from Seattle before.
You're not missing much.
What are you doing in this shithole town?
I was her best friend.
Best friend?
Since grade school.
That's a long time.
We were like sisters. Knew everything about each other.
Must be tough for you. What happened.
You want me to take you somewhere?
Long as it's fun.
Hey...
Thought you wanted something fun...
You and Kay were like sisters?
That's what I said.
Told each other everything. That why your picture's torn up in the top drawer of her bureau?
No...
Who was Kay seeing besides Randy Stetz?
I don't know.
You don't know.
She wouldn't tell me!
But you were such good <i>friends...</i>
It was like some big fucking secret!
What was?
She kept saying she was gonna get out of here. Leave us all behind. That <i>he</i> was going to take her!
Who?
My arm!
Who?
She used some stupid code name.
What was it?
Brody...I don't know... ...Something Brody!
Did you love her?
Huh?
Kay Connell. Did you love her?
"She was nice." Wow. That makes me all soft inside. Ever occur to you she didn't love you back?
Huh?
You heard me that time.
She loved me. She wanted to see me every night.
But she was seeing someone else on the side.
I don't know what you're fucking talking about.
Friday night, at the party  what'd you fight about?
Stuff.
What kind of stuff?
Just stuff. I don't fucking remember.
The other guy?
I told you I don't remember.
After that she left the party to go to him.
How should I know?...
Ran like hell to go to him...
Fuck you, man!  I'm sick of all your fucking cop questions...
I don't know.
You don't know.
She didn't tell me.
Thought I smelled something.
Good to see you, too, Randy.
Your friend's all business.
I'm always all business.
I got it. Don't know why I bother. It's been broken for two years.
Habit.
Fred Duggar?
No. He didn't say what his name was. Only that you were expecting him.
I'm not expecting anyone.
That's not what he thinks.
What did he look like?
Will...I...
What is it?
There's a guy down the hall. Complaining about the noise. Says he can't sleep.
One of your cases?
Me and Hap. A year and a half ago. I knew the second I met Dobbs that he was guilty. Smug, cold. Dead eyes. We had circumstantial evidence, but nothing to tie him to it. Nothing concrete. Went over every inch of that apartment.
Will.
There've been other cases. Where we've changed results. Pushed witnesses. Manipulated evidence. But Dobbs. I wanted Dobbs more than anything.
What if someone finds out?
We're under investigation now. Back in Seattle. Hap wanted to talk. As soon as we got back. Thought he could work out some kind of deal.
Eight years.
Seven years.
They're all over everybody.
I.A.'s calling themselves the "Corruption Task Force." Can you believe that? Trying to root out any mistakes or "oversights" any other Detectives may have made over the years. They're turning it into a witch hunt. Something on the news about it practically every night.
He knew exactly what we'd be looking for. Made sure to cover up all his tracks.
Even the best make mistakes.
What do you want to talk about?
You know what about.
We'll talk when we get back to Seattle.
When's that, a week? Two weeks?... We have to figure out a plan of action now.
You know my plan of action.
To do nothing.
That's right.
Dammit, Will. Warfield had me locked up in his office again for five hours yesterday. <i>Five</i> hours. Asking all kinds of questions...
He's asking everybody questions.
But he's zeroing in on <i>me</i>. On <i>us</i>. Everyone's talking about it.
He's just rattling your cage.
Well, I gotta tell you. With a wife, three kids, and a pension plan in the balance, it's rattling hard.
We say nothing. It goes away. Simple as that.
Weston Dobbs killed an eight yearold boy and left him hanging in the basement like a piece of meat. You remember that?
You know I remember that.
One word to I.A. and he walks.
Maybe not. We could talk to Buck...
No way.
Cut some kind of a deal. I heard that's what Flynn's doing...
Mike Flynn's a dirty cop, Hap! We are nothing like Mike Flynn. We did what we needed to do to make sure that sonof bitch Dobbs paid for what he did. And every bastard like him. We say one word about it and every case we ever brought in is going to blow wide open and they'll all walk. Every last one. And I am <i>not</i> going to let that happen. No deals. No compromises. No discussions.
Well her mother didn't buy them for her.
What are we thinking?
Looks like the natives are restless.
Will?
I wish I could stick it out like you. I just, with Trish and the kids...
Don't do this, Hap...
I'm thinking I could get off with probation. Keep half my pension. That's all I want.
Goddammit, Hap. Think about what you're doing...
You don't have to be involved, Will.
You tell Buck and I'm involved whether I like it or not...
Where you signed this?
That's right.
What happened at that signing?
She flattered me about my writing. Asked if she could visit me. To talk about my books.
Did she?
Yes. Not that much at first. But then she became more comfortable. Started visiting me every week...
She wasn't happy. I was someone to talk to.
How do you mean?
That boyfriend. Randy.
Randy Stetz?
That's right.
Are you sure about that?
She'd come to me, sometimes in the middle of the night. Bruises all over her back, her upper arms. I pled with her to let me call the police, but she wouldn't hear it. Wanted to keep it a secret.
No.
No fibers, skin flakes, hairs...
Like I said, no. We know about those things up here.
She left the party early. Friends said she had a fight with her boyfriend and stormed out.
What time was that?
Around twelvethirty.
Who was the last one to see her alive?
Randy Stetz. Her boyfriend. We've questioned him, searched his place. Didn't find anything.
We're sure it's hers?
Has her books in it.
I'll stick it in the evidence locker...
No.
What are you doing here?
I told her to come.
Dormer. Still no sign of the bullet that went through Farrell.
I'm going to the hospital to talk to him now. You get the search party together. No fewer than thirty people. I'll meet you in exactly twentyfive minutes. Don't waste any time.
I'll call him now.
First I need a copy of the key.
Forget your pager?
What?
I beeped you over two hours ago.
Good.
And something else that might interest you.
No.
One of the paperbacks we found in Kay Connell's knapsack.
That's right.
Mrs. Connell found this copy in the house. It's signed. Personally.
So?
This is a local writer. Kay had all his books. I think we should check it out.
Sorry about...
Where is he?
Thanks.
I wish I'd had the chance to get to know him better. Take him fishing or something.
He would have liked that.
We just gotta catch the bastard, right?
That's why I'm here. I need to know exactly what you saw yesterday, Farrell.
What I saw?
Anything. It's important.
Oh, you know. Don't feel that much. Bullet went right through.
Right. Got lost in the rocks.
We'll get the other one, though.
My partner...
Detective Eckhart! I know! Welcome to Nightmute!
You did your homework, Officer.
Actually...
Guess that's what they call Alaskan hospitality.
Don't worry about him...
Don't give misdemeanors a bad rap.
But they're so boring. All small stuff.
It's all about the small stuff. Small lies. Small mistakes. Small oversights. People give themselves away in a traffic violation just as much as they do in a murder case. It's human nature.
Typical seventeen yearold. She went to a party Friday night?
Down at a local dive the kids like to hang out in.
I want you to check this out, Ellie.
We already did.
Do it again.
But there wasn't any...
Who's that?
The bartender at Darrow's. He was there Friday night.
Good. He's up next.
This murder was in the papers, right?
Yeah. All over.
Call all of them from here to Anchorage. Tell them we now know that Kay Connell left the party with a dark blue knapsack, but we haven't recovered it yet. We can get it in by the morning editions.
I could say the same thing about you.
Oh. We always have playoffs in the middle of the night. It's the best time.
Who's playing?
The Puffins and the Hawks. We're in extra innings. The Hawks have a really good lineup this year.
She your only sibling?
Twelve years younger.
Oh, I shouldn't have...
It's okay. Happened a long time ago. He was killed in a fire. In New Mexico.
That must have been awful for you.
I'm going back to the Lodge, Ellie. Still need to go through some of Kay Connell's school records.
Okay.
But here's the thing. I retraced your exact steps according to your statement. You couldn't have seen Detective Eckhart from there. I mean, not in that fog.
Then change it.
How much closer would you say you were?
I don't remember.
Five feet? Seven feet?
Duggar called him?
About an hour ago. Said he was more than happy to cooperate.
Not really.
Isn't that the difference between a good cop and a bad cop? A good cop can't sleep 'cause a piece of the puzzle's missing. A bad cop can't sleep 'cause his conscience won't let him. You said that once, remember?
It's legitimate.
Worth pursuing?
Walter Byrd killed Kay Connell. Her things are in the house.
I know.
Byrd's dead.
No. But I covered it up. I lied.
Why?
What about your shoulder?
Don't worry. I'll have a cool scar.
Just after Leland Street.
What's that, then?
Nice kid.
Got a love affair with police work. Drives me crazy with it.
So far.
What's the D.A. got them on?
Four unwarranted shootings, witness intimidation, and cocaine theft.
That's I.A.'s pit bull.
Wants me to keep him posted on all your movements up here.
And then I lost him. In the fog.
About how long 'til you heard the suspect's second shot?
Will, you can't blame yourself.
I had him!
It's only gonna make you crazy.
I have to get back.
Too bad...
Yes, sir.
That's all, for now.
Didn't want to miss anything.
Detective Dormer's not leaving for a few hours.
Good.
Maybe you could drive him to Spencer's.
Sure.
Hey Wendy.
Hey Sandy.
Mikey was looking for you.
Yeah? See ya.
Well, you can...
Hey Sandy, what were you blowing up out there? Your mom was pretty p.o.'d.
All my model planes.
The ones you built?
They were old. And they couldn't fly anyhow. I'm going to get a radiocontrolled airplane at Christmas, and then I'll stuff it full of m80s and then fly it into Mrs. Burgess's English class and blow it up.
I have to go to the bathroom.
Yeah.
Sandy, you scared the shit out of me.
What are you doing?
Just thought I'd stop by.
Mike's out  I think he went to Silver Meadow to see if you were hanging around there.
Yeah.
Are you his girlfriend?
No.
He's dead.
If it wasn't raining we could take him outside and blow him up.
He wouldn't blow up. He'd just get all mangled or twisted.
Well. It looks like someone got to his private parts before us.
Communist Viet Cong.
They left it in the jungle.
We  we have to go to the guest room. We can't stay in here. What if Mikey? My parents?
Don't worry about them. They're at that party, getting drunk and falling all over each other and making jokes about McGovern and stuff.
Want a drink?
Vodka?
You never tasted the stuff?
It feels warm.
One more shot?
Okay.
Have you ever had a nocturnal emission?
Huh?
That's the name for when you wake up and find this little pool of sticky stuff, like after a sexy dream.
I love you.
That's nice. Are you drunk?
I don't know. How do I know?
I don't know either. You spin around, when you lie down.
Charles.
Charles. Have you been keeping out of my shit? Have you refrained from entering the sacred precincts of my room?
I have not touched your sh Stuff. You watching this?
Watching what?
Nixon, doofus! It's incredible. He should be shot.
Hello, Charles.
Greetings, Charles.
How are the parental units functioning these days?
Dad's like doing his Up With People routine, mom hasn't been saying much.
I don't know. Dad seems a little weird.
Yeah well wait till mom opens her mouth.
May I operate your telephonic apparatus?
Why don't you use the phone downstairs?
Calling an individual, Charles, in New York. Confirming a social outing for Friday night.
Can I come?
It's a oneonone kind of date thing.
With who?
Her name's Libbets.
Libbets? What kind of a name is Libbets?
Hood residence.
Charles, what time is it?
Is this Charles?
What time is it?
Um, tenofive. Why? Where are you?
I'm, uh, in the midst of a moral dilemma. And I was wondering, because I know you're a very moral person, and 
And?
Shit. I can't really talk about it. I guess I better get to the train.
Right.
What are you doing at home on a Friday night?
I have plans.
Want some gum?
Sure. Twinkie?
I'm chewing.
Did you tell Sandy?
Tell Sandy? What?
I don't ever want to see you.
Then why'd you come after me?
You have to follow me?
I dunno. I 
See, no one's here. Maybe you want to go to the basement?
Maybe we can just watch some TV.
There's a TV in the basement.
Maybe we can mess around. You know, only if you want to...
I don't know.
Why did you  with Sandy?
I don't know.
You like him? He worships you.
Wow!
Wendy!
When worlds collide.
Huh?
4:30 movie. When Worlds Collide.
You're parents at that party?
Yeah. Yours?
You get in trouble?
Maybe. Can't really tell yet.
I'm sorry if I got you into trouble. Maybe we don't have to, you know... unless you really want to.
Yeah.
Stupid! Is Wendy Hood your girlfriend?
Who said so?
No one.
I don't have a girlfriend.
Mikey?
Yeah?
Geometry?
Sure, anything but this English.
Why are you so good at math but not in English?
I'm not good at math. Just geometry.
Where you going?
Out.
It's freezing.
Yeah. When it freezes, I guess that means the molecules are not moving. So when you breathe, there's nothing in the air, you know, to breathe in to your body. The molecules have stopped. So it's clean.
I'm in love with Libbets Casey.
Yeah, well, you've been in love with like every other girl here, I was wondering when you'd get around to Libbets.
It's beyond mere physical attraction.
That's good, because I don't think Libbets is capable of the sex act.
Truly? Do speak.
My diagnosis is messed in the head. A poor little rich girl  I mean check out the jeans and fur look. And lend your ears to this brutality. Like her mom and step dad and her stepsisters are going to Switzerland to ski over Thanksgiving break  and like they didn't invite her!
How do you know this shit?
They did it last year too. It's like traditional or something. They've got this humongoid Park Ave apartment and she just holes up there with a wad of cash. Aren't the hugely wealthy sad?
You think Francis is going to beat me to the punch here?
Since he sleeps with every girl you ever show an interest in, why don't you just keep your Libbets thing a secret from him?
Good thinking Marge.
Um, Libbets. Hey, Dostoyevsky, I'm also really a fan, and what you were saying, you know, have you ever read The Idiot?
The Idiot?
If you liked Notes from Underground, you'll love The Idiot.
Great, thanks for the tip.
The Idiot.
Frankie opens them with his teeth.
Hey, it's a sellable skill.
Well, uh, I don't, it's really 
What is it?
Maybe you should have just a half.
Thanks for the advice dad.
Yeah.
You know Libbets, I really feel, you know, like a real connection to you 
Yeah but you don't even know me really.
Sure I do, you know, like your aura. That you give off.
My what?
It's like very positive, and I feel a real special feeling, because you really 
And I have a special feeling too, because I do. It's special.
You do? I'm glad. Because I feel for you 
And I have a feeling for you too, because you're just like  I feel for you like you're  you're just like 
I do.
Right. Cool. So, how about we take a bath together?
Hah hah you're funny. A bath. Like a brother and sister. Oh man, I'm so wasted.
Hey. I'll take this stuff.
You going to tell dad?
Would it matter? And what's that?
You know, it's the whip  the one uncle Frank got me from Mexico.
It's not packed with explosives, is it?
No!
Play with the whip.
Jesus, Jim!
Sorry honey. Hell, we've got to trade this thing in for a normal bed.
Just be careful.
You notice anything with Mikey lately? The kid seemed a little out of it tonight, eh?
Tonight? Jim, he's been out of it since he was born.
Hell, I guess he takes after me, huh?
Awesome sleet and rain.
Major.
Howdy there. You, young knight. Can you check on the mead? Can you sally forth and secure us some more mead?
Everything's gonna freeze, the big freeze.
Yeah, Paul, are you gonna get home okay?
No candy for me?
Groovy. Young master of the revels, a treat for our hostess?
Come on Paulie, share the wealth. You copped 'em from her mom's stash anyway.
Let's see!
Arise and shine, young Hood.
I hope you changed the water in that bong from last night.
The water, as you call it, is a special mixture of amaretto and Ben&Ben blended for just the exact chemical interaction with the last of our precious Thai stick.
Waste not Master Hood  that was $20 for the bag.
Man, Francis, you are one drug addled elitist freak, and when the revolution comes I do not want to be lined up with you and shot, 'cause you're fucking ripe for political reeducation, you know, like in the fields.
Paul, cancel your mental appointments, baby. What are you, like still stoned from last night?
I gotta get to English class.
No more man. I'm about to drop as it is.
See ya.
Where you going?
Paul, let me enlighten you about something. You and I exist on two opposite sides of a great existential divide, that being your pathetic virginity on the one hand and my astonishing number of sexual conquests on the other. I'm off to get laid. See you.
Flame on, asshole.
And remember, with your erogenous zones lubricated as such with the mighty herb, do not attempt terrestrial contact with members of the opposite sex  because you drone on like a motherfucker when you're stoned.
How can you do that man?
Do what?
Sleep all day. I mean, look, it's already getting dark outside, and you're just getting up.
Um, Libbets Casey.
What?
Aha! I could sense the vibe.
What do you mean?
Am I right or am I right?
Shit. You're not planning 
My man, I speak to you solely as a comrade in arms offering unconditional aid. I've been giving this one a lot of thought, and I believe that the two of you together might just reach that higher ground that 
You oughtta read this Hood, Nixon, our leader, all ye need know about the travails of life. Check out the Checkers speech stuff.
Francis. You gonna leave the seeds in there? In the binding like that?
All will be revealed, baby.
Huh?
Moisture! Moisture!
And whence has yon virginal maiden absconded?
Like into one of the other 20 or so bathrooms they've got in this place.
Check it out. Not for the faint of heart.
Pharmaceutical! You are a god.
One for you and one for me.
Elena. Elena Hood, am I right?
Yes.
Reverend Edwards. Philip Edwards. You came by and checked out the congregation a couple of times last year.
Yes, it was  I ended up 
No need to make excuses 
It's been a tremendously transformative year  maybe a little controversial of course, but we're breaking down the old Unitarian barriers 
I suppose my reluctance was the group aspect of it  I've never been much of a joiner, although I still consider myself a somewhat religious person 
Well I of course flatter myself that our church is not exactly what most people would call organized religion  at times it's the disorganization that's liberating  and of course I've begun to minister much more in what one might call therapeutic environments, in small groups, and one on one, couples 
My daughter. I haven't been on a bike for years. When was the last time you rode a bike?
They say you never forget.
Forget what?
Forget how to ride a bike.
In many ways, the churchbound tradition of the father, son, and holy ghost is simply a version of the parentchildadult triad within us all. It's a primitive set of symbols for our inner psychology.
You're saying that Christ is the child, and 
 And God the angry parent, and the Spirit the hope of an integrated adult self.
All well and good  But tell me again what is it exactly that you believe in?
You ask what the point is?
That's right.
Selfrealization. Ministering to help people reach their fullest potential. Would you believe me if I told you I want you to see yourself reach your fullest potential and selfrealization?
I would say it sounds like you're trying to get me into bed.
If that's a potential you see yourself fulfilling... I mean... My, I sound a bit 
I'm sorry. That was stupid of me. I didn't mean to be so rude.
You weren't. You actually, for some reason, you have the effect on me of making me feel just a tiny bit ashamed of myself.
But not too ashamed.
Now you are being rude.
And you're still trying to get me into bed.
Ouch.
I'm afraid she's something of a gossip, isn't she?
I'm afraid people around here provide her with quite a bit to gossip about. Take care.
That I will indeed.
Reverend Edwards.
Perhaps you might find it in your heart to call me Philip?
You're here... I'm a bit surprised.
Sometimes the shepherd needs the company of the sheep.
I'm going to try hard not to understand the implications of that simile.
Please don't.
It's not a bother.
I insist. Don't touch them.
Oh.
It's really quite all right.
Of course.
Thanks again. For the dinner.
Thanks for eating it. I don't know why I even pretend I can cook.
I used to know how to cook.
It's not like we're too busy.
I'm thinking of going back to school.
Social work?
How'd you know?
Educated guess.
I'm that predictable? No, you don't have to answer that. It's just that with the kids almost grown 
You don't have to apologize. I'm too much of a cynic. You actually seem to be trying to figure things out  don't mind me.
Here you are.
Thanks for the lift. If the bike's any bother
None at all. I'll leave it in front of your garage. Happy Thanksgiving.
Hi mom.
Hi Wendy.
I saw you on your bike today.
With Mikey?
Who?
Nobody.
Mikey Williams?
We were just riding around.
Weightless almost  as if I were seeing my own memories of being a girl. There was something internal about it.
Mom. Are you ok?
Wendy, of course. I'm sorry. You must think I'm ripe to be checked into Silver Meadows.
You're not a psycho!
The people at Silver Meadows aren't psychos.
I know. They're rich drug addicts and celebrities. When I saw James Taylor there, and 
We've been through this Wendy James Taylor was actually at that clinic up near Boston.
Well, I saw what I saw, and if you don't want to believe me 
Oh Wendy.
They need the money for my band uniform at school.
I thought you quit the band  I never hear you practice anymore.
I don't really need to practice. I just play a few notes, you know, so I thought maybe I'd stay in.
Well, I'm sure your father and I would love to hear what you're playing these days. Maybe after dinner.
We're going to the Halford's. The number's on the calendar in the kitchen. We should be home around 11.
Is it a big party? A big neighborhood party?
I suppose. Why?
Just curious. If there's a problem, I guess I'll just call you there to interrupt.
What sort of problems are you planning exactly?
Oh I thought I'd steal the station wagon, drive up to a commune. Or set the house on fire. You know.
Just bundle up. It's supposed to freeze tonight. We'll see you in the morning.
I don't like coffee.
It'll warm you up.
Well, I have to say I don't have much faith that my car keys are still in that bowl. Doesn't seem entirely safe, leaving your car keys around?
Let me.
Thanks, but  oh, I don't think so. It's been kind of a discouraging evening.
You couldn't have hoped for much better when you came up the walk.
Somehow it was different in my imagination when I thought about it. Actually, I didn't think about it at all, really.
You want coffee or something?
Well, maybe they have one of those filter jobs in the kitchen 
Look, Elena, the fact that we're neighbors... you know, close friends, well it sort of makes this a little strange, don't you think?
My husband is probably passed out in the bathroom, or at least he wishes he were. I've been married to him for 17 years and I don't have any intention of going in there to get him... so what I'm proposing is that since your wife has gone off with a boy, and since you are standing here alone, I'm proposing that you and I do what makes sense. Stay warm. Pass some time. That's all.
Now don't make me feel as if I'm being too forward, OK? If you don't 
What the hey. Let's go for a drive.
Okay. Shall we clean up around here first? Do you think it's all right
Nah, that wasn't in the contract.
Things are really rotten at home. You wouldn't believe how rotten. Janey's sick. She's unstable, I guess... it's not the right time to tell you... but that's it  it's like I can't make her happy, the boys can't make her happy, she just doesn't 
Jim, maybe we should just go. I've got to look in on the kids. Paul is supposed to be coming back in from the city.
Jesus, let me make it up to you  I can do better than that, honestly 
Well, we can talk about it.
That's fine. I wouldn't expect you to see it any other way.
Maybe you just need  look, can you wait here a sec, I need to tidy up  just a minute, I'll be right back. You'll wait?
Of course.
You okay?
Yeah. You?
Yes. Well, I guess we can walk from here.
You want to come in, get a cup of coffee  warm up? I can either walk you home, or you could crash in the guest room.
Sure. Maybe coffee.
Phone's out. I hope the pipe's 
And to think  they met at a key party of all things.
A key party?
You know, it's a California thing. That scuzzy husband of hers dragged her kicking and screaming to one when they were out in L.A. you know, the men put their car keys in a bowl, and then at the end of the evening the women line up and fish them out and go home with whoever's keys they've got. Anyhow that's how she met this Rod person or whatever his name is and he's left his wife and she's packing for California. Irwin is devastated. It's so ironic.
Thank you Janey.
It was lovely!
Hello you two. Am I barging in on some kind of religious study group? Elena, you look marvelous. Will I see you and Ben at the Halford's?
I suppose we'll make an appearance.
And Reverend Edwards? Did you make the list?
Welcome to the Monkey House has been a seminal influence on me  hey Benjamin  give it a try? This stuff will make some sense out of those larger questions.
Thanks for the advice Dave.
Good shit.
Sure is good shit. It's opiated. I had it in my chamber for a while. I was smoking this other 
It's what?
Don't fret, Benjie, it's 
Darn it, Dave.
We don't have to always go to your club, dad.
And why are you still calling me dad? You're forty years old already, and 
 Well what am I supposed to call you?
That's besides the point.
I was actually trying to see about getting a little advice, you know 
Advice? I'm supposed to be getting the stock tips from you, Ben. Unless  have you quit your job? They fired you?
You know, dah
Actually it's not about work, it's advice about 
Oh for crying out loud Ben, you don't mean to tell me that your marriage is going down the drain now 
Well, Elena and I have kind of been talking, not really talking, but 
 Your mother, God bless her, stood by me for fortytwo years  we never once contemplated divorce  I assume you're talking here about divorce? The very thought 
But dad, you guys truly hated each other, I mean really hated each 
 Waiter! Where's my cobb salad? You want advice Ben? If your big brother were still alive I'd have him go out into the back yard and beat some sense into your head. Look kid, you married that woman against my advice 
 What advice? You never 
That's besides the point. The point is if I'd had any sense in me I'd have divorced your mother 40 years ago, and that's the truth, and here it is, 1972 
 73
 73, and divorce is as easy as paying off a traffic ticket, and for crying out loud, Ben, be a man and just get it over with. I would have if I'd had the chance.
But...
But what?
But I  well maybe I love her. Elena.
It's not the taxes I object to. It's all the fines and penalties.
Alright dad. But you sold the house, you didn't tell anyone, including the IRS, and I'd of certainly liked to have seen if there was any old stuff 
It was all junk!
Oh. Elena wanted to know when we could expect you on Thanksgiving. It's just going to be you this year.
Ben, I'm going to Florida. I hate Thanksgiving and I hate the cold. I have a new nurse. She's a negro, she weighs three hundred pounds, and I've decided to leave my entire estate to her.
What?
Jesus, Benjamin, you're still as gullible as ever.
That was a joke? You don't tell jokes.
I thought I'd start trying. If you don't mind. But I am going to Florida and I do have a new nurse.
Dad stop it!
Get to sleep young lady  and I mean it.
Fascist!
If I were a fascist I would have sent you to one of those Southern military academies a long time ago. Now get to bed.
Goodnight dad.
Good night kiddo.
I'm picking up Paul at the station  want to come?
Nah.
What you been up to?
Nothing.
... while children in Africa and Asia are napalmed and 
Jesus all right enough!
What the hell are you kids doing down here?
What do you think we're doing, dad?
What do I think? I think you're probably touching each other. I think you're touching that reckless jerkoff, for god's sake, and I think he's trying to get into your slacks. I think, at fourteen years of age, that you're getting ready to give up your girlhood 
Talking to me, dad?
Who else would I be talking to? And take that thing off!
Well, then forget all this stern dad stuff.
I'm not interested in your smart ass remarks now, lady. Let's go. Right now. You and I can discuss it on the walk home.
Look, kiddo, don't worry about it. I really don't care that much. I'm just not sure he's good enough, that's all.
Huh?
I mean, he's not serious, he'll end up living off Janey and Jim, you watch. It's just that you develop a sense when you get older, if things are going to work out or if they won't, and sometimes it's not worth the mess...
Your toes cold?
Yeah.
He's probably been waiting all night at the station.
C'mon.
It's like farming. I am basically chewing up large tracts of expensively landscaped scenery with overpriced sticks, and George Clair has obviously, in the mere two years since he joined the firm, he has obviously been taking secret lessons with a golf pro, and I assume the entirety of his disposable income has been devoted to humiliating me on the golf course. And the guy talks  incessantly  throughout the entirety of the miserable 18 holes  on topics that are the supposed domain of my department 
Ben
Yeah?
You're boring me. I have a husband. I don't particularly feel the need for another.
You have a point there. That's a very good point. We're having an affair. Right. An explicitly sexual relationship. Your needs. My needs. You're absolutely right.
You should probably get dressed. The boys will be home soon.
Gotcha.
Here.
After the Thanksgiving I had, I need it. You having one?
In a bit.
Maybe it's all for the better, you know? Yesterday, at dinner, well, she hasn't said anything... has she acted funny to you, I mean, have you noticed anything?
Have I noticed anything? I'm not married to her Benjamin, you are. I think you've probably a better vantage point from which to observe her.
Yeah, but, I  I've been working a lot lately, and  No, that's not it. I guess we've just been on the verge of saying something, whatever it is, just saying something to each other. On the verge.
Huh?
Birth control.
Right. Gotcha.
Oh jeez, Benjie. Well, here you are.
Damn right, but where the hell were you?
What are you talking about?
Don't bullshit me around, Janey. Jesus Christ, I waited around for more than half an hour, in nothing but my boxer shorts, and  and what's all that about? What the hell happened?
A prior engagement overcame me.
What?
Listen, Benjamin Hood. I have obligations that precede your... from before you showed up. One or two, you know, goodnatured encounters, that doesn't mean I'm... I'm not just some toy for you. When I remembered some chores I wanted to get done before the party, I just did them, that's all, because I wanted to do them before I saw Jimmy.
Jimmy? Jimmy? I don't know how to take this. And what do you mean, Jimmy? I thought you said you and your husband 
How you take it isn't all that interesting to me, Benjamin. I'm sorry 
I just can't believe you could be so 
Hi dad.
Hey guy. Things ok up there? You all right?
I'm fine dad.
Well good. Just confirming. You'll be on the 3:50 Wednesday afternoon.
Well dad, actually I thought I'd take the morning train on Thanksgiving  got a lot of studying, papers, you know, lab experiments 
Lab experiments? Right smart guy  Paul, you know your mother's gonna be disappointed not to see more of you  In fact, let me make this more than a simple request guy, I think you should...
So how's school treating you?
All right.
Classes?
Good.
Grades?
Fine.
Anyone special? You know...
Hnnn.
Well it's good to see you  we miss you around the house and all, but this St. Peter's, it's top of the line, eh?
Yeah.
You know Paul, I've been thinking, maybe this is as good a time as any to have a little talk, you know, about  well 
About?
Well, the whole gamut. Facts of life and all. Some fatherly advice, because, I tell you, there's things happening that you're probably old enough... well... For example, on the selfabuse front  now this is important  it's not advisable to do it in the shower  it wastes water and electricity and because we all expect you to be doing it there in any case  and, um, not onto the linen, and not on your sister's underwear or any clothing belonging to your mother 
Holy! Well. If you're worried about anything, just feel free to ask, and, uh, we can look it up.
Uh, dad, you know I'm 16.
All the more reason for this little heart to heart... great.
Um, Paul. On second thought, can you do me a favor and pretend I never said any of that.
Sure dad.
Thanks.
See you.
Stay out of trouble.
Ah let the guy have his fun. What's the name of this girl with the Park Avenue address?
Libbets. Libbets Casey.
Libbets? What kind of name is Libbets?
OK, OK, the defense rests. Want another?
No thank you. We should be off.
Gotcha.
Don't be so modest, Ben. It's a job that requires a certain prescience with regards to entertainment trends. You were the first to predict that Billy Jack would be a hit 
And as usual no one believed me...
You're staring at me.
I wasn't star
I've been thinking, Ben, about Wendy. I was going to ask if she'd come with me sometime to meet Dr. Woolens.
That shrink  the one you always wanted me to see? I thought you dropped him.
I did, but  somebody should probably see her, talk to her... You think she's ok?
Why shouldn't she be?
Then again, why should she be? I mean with us, with our...
So maybe you'll come too?
Oh not again Elena! If we've got problems, why can't you just come out and talk about them.
It's you Ben who needs to talk. I've had my say, and I'm waiting to hear back from you.
Yeah but Elena, even you don't believe all that "I'm OK. You're OK" stuff you keep babbling about  you say so yourself. I've been all ears for about ten years now on his subject, and 
 And you haven't moved out yet. It's because you're too lazy, Ben. Too scared or lazy to either deal with us or simply make a decision 
Elena.
Good night.
Good night.
The Halfords have invited us again this year.
You want to go?
What do you think?
Well, it is a neighborhood tradition.
I'm, uh, going to bed.
So early?
Rough day. Good night.
Oh yeah. Musk, or something. You like it?
Hmm. Good night.
You all right there?
Oh. Sure, I  Did you remember to pick up the cranberry sauce?
Um, yes.
Because you like it on your turkey sandwiches.
I do. I'm  are you...?
I... I think I am...
You know Elena, I've been thinking
Ben, maybe no talking right now? If you start talking, you're going to
You crying?
I'm just sad Ben  I mean it was... you were, but, you know. I just don't know...
Whatever that means Elena  And you complain about me not communicating... I thought it was 
No, I didn't mean to sound negative. It was  But Ben. What is going to happen with us? Have you 
You have to bring this up now? What? Did I do something here? Is that it? Is it something I did?
I wasn't accusing you, Ben. It's just that we've got to be honest. Not just with ourselves, but with the children.
Hell, I know. I  I guess if you want to accuse me, you've got  Oh hell! I've got to pick up Paul. I almost forgot.
Yikes  I was hoping to wear this thing to the Halford's Friday.
That shirt?
What?
Leave it  I'll wash it for you.
The turkey in?
Stuffed and baking.
Dinner in ten minutes.
You go dry off now.
In the basement over at Janey and Jim's. With that weirdo Mikey. Not even a TV on. And they're on the floor and he's got his trousers down though thank goodness she's still dressed. Well, I really let him have it! ... and Wendy came home peacefully... Hey, should I dress for the Halford's now, or  give me your 
Up to you. I'd like to go early and leave pretty soon after that.
I get you loud and clear... hey, you look nice.
So what were you doing in the Williams' basement anyway?
Oh, just dropping off a coffee cup. Jim left it, last time he was over. It was on the dash of the car. You were, you know, reading, thought I'd just catch some air. Let's eat.
Oh right. The mustache coffee cup. The one that was sitting on the dash.
Yeah, that one.
That one.
What's for dessert?
See for yourself.
No advice from the experts, huh?
Don't start.
You think I 
I have no idea.
What's on your mind? Don't 
It wouldn't make a pleasant evening, if that's what you're after. I don't want to talk about it. Stupid mustache cup.
What do you mean?
Don't be dim.
Elena, what are you're talking about?
I'm not surprised.
Listen, Elena, if you're gonna pull that passive aggressive stuff on me again 
Your unfaithfulness  that's what I'm trying to talk about. Your unfaithfulness. Your betrayal. Your dalliance. And you won't do me the dignity of being up front about it.
Am I unfaithful? Is that what you're trying to say?
It's a starting place.
Well, what kind of faithfulness are you after?
If you're going to insult me 
What else could I be? What else could I be? We're not living in the real world here. You're living out some fantasy land from the past, or some advice or something from those psychoanalysts... there are some hard facts here.
Oh lord. You think I'm so dense. And now you want to be seen with your dense wife at the cocktail party. You want to wear that ridiculous shirt which doesn't go with those pants at all. You want to wear that, and you want me to shake hands with your friends and make conversation and dress up in an outfit that shows a lot of cleavage and you're not going to accord me the respect of talking honestly about this... You don't really know what this feels like.
Sure I do. Do I know what loneliness feels like? Sure I do. I know a lot about it, if that's what you mean.
Benjamin. That's supposed to explain it?
You've...
In the car.
Oh, yeah. Yeah, we'll be right back, Dot.
This just isn't the best moment for this.
I know, I know. I had no idea 
That this was going to be a key party?
Yeah, well, if we'd understood we could have invented some kind of excuse. A key party  did you see how stuffed that bowl was already?
Well?
I think we're here and we don't have to stay  we ought simply to put in an appearance and then we can head home.
Damn it, Ben 
I'm not staying at this party so we can go home with someone else's wife. That's not why we're here, right? We're simply being neighbors here, and I think we should do just that 
You're not going to 
I'm not.
You have some marker, that's what I think, if you want to know the truth. You have some marker and you're going to put it on the house keys so that Janey can find them and then when I get back to the house I'll find the two of you in there and Wendy'll be able to hear you and Paul will be back and he'll hear you and I'll catch you, that's what I think. She'll be swearing and banging against the wall and I'll catch 
Elena.
Elena, it's not what you think. It's not a big plot. Honestly. Honestly. I don't know if you want to go over this now, but it's just something that comes over me. I don't feel good about it. I know I've done what I didn't want to do. I don't know 
Well, I'm really pleased to hear a confession.
Elena, you're just getting wound up to get wound up.
Thanks for the diagnosis, Ben. Thank you. So let's just go to this fiasco if that's what you want to do. Let's just go on in. I'd rather talk to anyone else but you.
Ready to go?
We're not going anywhere.
Elena.
Ben, I've got a ride home. Maybe you should sleep this one off on the couch here?
I'll drive you 
Ben.
You'll get some sleep on the couch out there?
Sure. I'll try. And we'll talk in the morning?
We'll talk in the morning.
Do you think? Maybe we should call someone 
The phone's out.
Yeah. Well, we can just 
Ben, I don't think he wants us here.
Oh you know, for a minute I thought it was 
Paul? Yeah. You think 
And speaking of which, you have those market share charts Mr. Shackley was asking about?
Gotcha George, not a problem. Tomorrow. Hey, you want to start covering the old filmed entertainment sector yourself?
Ben you know that's your territory  and I wouldn't dream to trespass  you're the expert. Hey, how do you think Paramount's gonna do with that Blatty novel, what's it called? The Exorcist?
Overpriced bomb, cost over $6 million  no stars, and no one's into the horror genre these days anyway. I'm advising the company recommend reducing positions there. It's disaster films that are gonna stay at the top.
Brilliant. Hey, you heading out a little early today?
Got a meeting uptown.
Right o'.
Up the organization! Bastard.
Benjie!
Clair, George Clair! What the hell brings you to New Canaan?
Well, it's the funniest thing. I've been talking to some investors  a little outside venture, you understand, between you and me  about a scheme to manufacture a new Styrofoam packaging. Little peanut like pieces that can really keep an item free from trauma during shipping. Miraculous. Anyway, it turns out the genius behind the whole project is your neighbor, Jim Williams. How about that!
Well, hey, isn't that a oneina million coincidence. A real dreamer, Jim Williams, eh?
Darned right. Look here, Benj, whaddya make of this sequel to The Godfather? You think it's gonna work?
Don't see how. I think the public's had its fill of this gangster stuff. No, trust me  disaster pics. And air hockey.
Yeah, good.
Well, gonna make a break for the hors d'oeuvres guy.
Yeah, see you bright and early Monday am. Say, where's the wife?
In Rhode Island with the folks. I'm a free agent tonight.
Dr. Maxwell  it's nice to see you.
Dr. Maxwell has very unpleasant news for us.
We're all in it. There won't be a shred of pride or decency left for any of use. Say something, Paul! You've always been good with words. Put some together, now, and tell us that you're not responsible  that every damnable bit of it doesn't rest squarely on your shoulders!
You're wrong, Wesley. The guilt is mine  all of it.
Are you going to lie for him, Mother?
Betsy, tell them about the Houmfort. Tell them what you saw there.
That isn't true. You never understood her.
That night, I went to the Houmfort. I kept seeing Jessica's face  smiling  smiling because two men hated each other  because she was beautiful enough to take my family in her hands and break it apart. The drums seemed to be beating in my head. The chanting  the lights  everything blurred together. And then I heard a voice, speaking in a sudden silence. My voice. I was possessed. I said that the woman at Fort Holland was evil and that the Houngan must maker her a Zombie.
Well, Jeffries, why come to us about it? Why don't you go up to the Houmfort and put a stop to the drumming and dancing  that's what causes all the trouble.
No. You're quite wrong. Right here's the seat of the trouble. Mrs. Holland has become an object of speculation and religious interest to these people. It's revived all their old superstitions  Zombies  and that sort of nonsense.
If I were as sure as you, Mrs. Rand, we wouldn't be here. I'll tell you quite bluntly: for the peace of the island and possibly for her own safety, we've come to ask you to send Mrs. Holland away to St. Thomas.
To the asylum?
I believe there's a kinder name for it, Wesley. At St. Thomas, it's called the Institute for Mental Therapy.
It doesn't matter what you call it. I can tell you right now Jessica isn't going!
I tell you he hasn't and he wouldn't dare use it if he had.
Why?
Because he drove Jessica insane  deliberately  coldly!
That could be a serious accusation, Rand, if it weren't a foolish one.
Foolish? Tell them how foolish it is, Paul  tell them!
All that you say comes down to the same thing. You are asking me to pass a sentence of life or death on my own wife.
Insulin shock treatment is an extreme measure, Mr. Holland. But  as Miss Connell pointed out when she suggested it  this is an extreme case.
You admit that it is terribly dangerous. Why do you advise it?
I don't know  I don't know
It is a hard decision to make  but yours is only a technical responsibility...
Technical responsibility, real responsibility  what difference does it make? Jessica lives  or she dies. That's what we're talking about!
But I assure you, Father Walters, Miss Connell had no idea of the consequences when she went there.
Paul, we're not trying to blame Miss Connell. It isn't a question of blame. It's a question of what we are to do with Jessica. The commissioner is very concerned.
An accident at the mill?
No  it's about Mrs. Holland. A result of our discussion the other day, I'm afraid.
What about her?
In view of all the circumstances, the commissioner has decided on a legal investigation.
Investigation of what?
Of the nature of Mrs. Holland's illness. And, of course, the events which led up to it.
In other words, I'm on trial.
I did everything I could to forestall this, Paul. I don't think there's any question of your innocence in the matter. But there's been too much talk. The thing's out of hand.
Maybe it's better this way, Mother. I'm glad you're going home, Betsy  you'll be out of the mess.
Dr. Maxwell is right, Mother.
Emotion tricks all of us, Mrs. Rand. And you are a woman with a very strong conscience. That conscience has been tormenting you. The rest is coincidence. There is no such thing as a Zombie. The dead do not come back to life. Death is final.
I wouldn't worry too much, Commissioner. It'll pass. We've had this sort of thing before.
This is something else. They're curious. Curiosity and religious fervor make a strange and explosive mixture.
I'm quite sure nothing will happen, Doctor.
Wesley!
I am afraid, Wesley, he has that right. And I will have to urge him to use it.
I think I do. I've often talked a little voodoo to get medicine down a patient's throat.
It's more than that, Doctor. I've entered into their ceremonies  pretended to be possessed by their gods...
And what happened then, Mrs. Rand?
I hated myself. I kept saying to myself over and over again that these people had no power; they had no strange drugs; that there is no such thing as a Zombie.
Ah  that's where reason took hold.
Yes, I said it, and I made myself believe it. But when I got here, Jessica was already raging with fever.
Two things had happened, Mrs. Rand. One was that your daughterinlaw had been taken ill with a fever. The other thing  completely disconnected  was that you had wished her ill, because she had hurt your sons.
But I had no thought of harming her. It wasn't I...
You were possessed. That is true  possessed by your subconscious mind. You were in the Houmfort, surrounded by their symbols. To them, nothing worse can happen to a person than to be made into a Zombie. Your subconscious mind used their own words for evil.
It is not beautiful.
You read my thoughts, Mr. Holland.
It's easy enough to read the thoughts of a newcomer. Everything seems beautiful because you don't understand. Those flying fish  they are not leaping for joy. They're jumping in terror. Bigger fish want to eat them. That luminous water  it takes its gleam from millions of tiny dead bodies. It's the glitter of putrescence. There's no beauty here  it's death and decay.
You can't really believe that.
Have the servants made you comfortable?
Yes, thank you.
Can't I take it for you?
No, thank you. Tomorrow's time enough for you to begin work.
I heard someone crying  a woman 
A woman crying? No one's been crying here.
Why was the maid crying?
I'm not sure I can make you understand. You know what this is?
A figure of St. Sebastian.
Yes. But it was once the figurehead of a slave ship. That's where our people came from  from the misery and pain of slavery. For generations they found life a burden. That's why they still weep when a child is born  and make merry at a burial.
I made it clear in my letter to the company. This is not a position for a frightened girl.
I am not a frightened girl.
That's hard to believe, after what happened last night.
If I were as timid as you seem to think, Mr. Holland, I wouldn't have gone into the tower in the first place.
And what is so alarming about the tower, Miss Connell?
Nothing  really. But you must admit it's an eerie sort of place  so dark 
Surely nurses aren't afraid of the dark?
Of course not!
A mental case?
I'm sorry...
Why should you be? My wife is a mental case. Please keep that in mind, Miss Connell  particularly when some of the foolish people of this island start talking to you about Zombies.
You didn't find your patient so frightening in the daylight, did you?
Mrs. Holland must have been beautiful 
Many people thought her beautiful.
I suppose so. Yes.
And charming?
I've never given it much thought.
Don't. It will save you a great deal of trouble and other people a great unhappiness.
Good morning, Miss Connell.
Good morning.
I heard about your little misadventure yesterday, Miss Connell. On your first "day off," too.
Well, I had a good time up to a point.
Wesley can be very entertaining.
Yes, he can. But I've been wondering  you know if you could leave the whisky decanter off the table 
It's always stood there, Miss Connell. I can remember it in my grandfather's time and my father's. I'm afraid it will have to remain.
But for Wes  it must be a temptation to him.
I've no sympathy with people who can't resist temptation.
Still, I feel you should remove the decanter. Wes is not an alcoholic yet, Mr. Holland. But as a nurse I can tell you that it won't be long before he is.
I'm afraid the decanter will have to stay where it is. I engaged you, Miss Connell, to take care of my wife, not my brother.
You don't seem very disturbed by it. I've always thought Voodoo was something to be scared of: the drums sounded in the hills and everybody was frightened.
I'm afraid it's not very frightening. They have their songs and dances and carry on and finally, as I understand it, one of the gods comes down and speaks through one of the people.
I heard you playing.
I often do.
I know what you went through tonight. I kept thinking of what you said: that all good things died here, violently.
Why did you come in here?
I don't know. I wanted to help you. And now that I'm here, I don't know how.
You have helped me. I want you to know I'm sorry I brought you here. When I thought of a nurse, I thought of someone hard and impersonal.
I love Fort Holland.
What you saw tonight  two brothers at each other's throat and a woman driven mad by her own husband? Do you love that?
You didn't drive her mad.
Didn't I? I don't know. That's the simple truth of it. I don't know.
Well?
She is alive, Mr. Holland  that's all.
Don't take it to heart, Betsy.
I imagined this so differently...
I've been waiting here for hours, trying to imagine Jessica well again  wondering what I'd feel. I could see Jessica as she used to be, I could hear her say in that sweet mocking voice, "Paul, darling..." The whole thing beginning all over again...
And instead, I came  bringing you nothing.
Instead  you come, with sympathy, Betsy, and a generous heart. Don't forget that. Don't call it nothing.
I wanted to help you.
Help me? How?
I took Mrs. Holland to the Houmfort. I thought they might cure her.
You have deliberately endangered Mrs. Holland's life. There's no telling what you may have started with this insanity. Why did you do it?
I told you.
Because you wanted to give my wife back to me? Why should that mean anything to you?
You know why. You saw it the other night at the piano. You turned away from me.
What I saw the other night, I didn't dare believe, Betsy 
You think I love Jessica and want her back. It is like you to think that  clean, decent thinking.
She was beautiful.
I hated her.
I still can't believe it Paul  that you wouldn't say a word in your own defense.
I have no defense. So far as I know  it is true.
You can't believe that. You don't know what viciousness it would take to drive a person mad. You're not vicious or cruel, Paul.
How do you know I'm not? I was cruel to Jessica. When I got to know her  when I found out how empty and ungenerous she was, there was something about her  something smooth and false  that made we want to hurt her.
I can understand that. Everyone feels that way about someone.
No. It's not just how I felt toward Jessica. I've been cruel to even you.
You wanted to warn me...
The night you came to me in this room  to comfort me, to help me  I turned you away.
Don't, Paul  don't doubt yourself  don't make me doubt you.
I remember words I said to Jessica  words mixed like to poison  to hurt her, to madden her.
That's past  that's over and done with...
I want you to be safe, Betsy. I want to know you're away from this place  home again, where nothing can harm you  nothing and no one.
You want that?
Yes.
Considering that the paper is three months old and this isn't Sunday  no thank you.
I guess I'll wait until I'm home, Mrs. Rand.
It seems we are having dinner by ourselves, Miss Connell. But I may as well introduce everyone to you, anyway. There  in the master's chair, sits the master  my halfbrother Paul Holland. But you've already met him.
Yes  on the boat.
And that chair  is the particular property of Mrs. Rand  mother to both of us and much too good for either of us. Too wise, in fact, to live under the same roof. She prefers the village dispensary.
Is she a doctor?
No  she just runs the place. She's everything else  amazing woman, mother. You'll like her.
I like her already.
And that  is my chair. And this  is Miss Connell  who is beautiful.
Thank you. But who sits there?
My brother's wife.
 But, you're an American?
I went to school in Buffalo. Paul went to school in England.
I wondered about your different accents. I'm still wondering about your names  Rand and Holland.
We're halfbrothers. Paul is mother's first child. When his father died, she married my father. Dr. Rand, the missionary. And you know what they say about missionaries' children.
As a matter of fact, it means the sugar syrup is ready to be poured off. You'll have to excuse me.
Of course. It's been nice of you to spend this much time with me.
Don't worry. I wasn't missed. The only important man here is the owner.
Mr. Holland?
Yes, the redoubtable Paul. He has the plantation, and I, as you must have noticed, have all the charm.
I don't know. He spoke to me last night on the boat. I liked him very much.
Ah, yes, our Paul, strong and silent and very sad  quite the Byronic character. Perhaps I ought to cultivate it.
Perhaps you ought to get on to the mill.
It'll wait.
Where do you think you're going?
It's my day off.
But what in the world can you do with a day off in St. Sebastian?
I was just beginning to wonder. Aren't there shops, restaurants and things?
Well  and things  might be a better description of what you'll find. I'd better come along and show you the town.
But don't you have to work?
By a curious coincidence, it's my day off, too.
Bring me another, TiJoseph. I have to keep the lady entertained.
It must be hard work entertaining me if it requires six ounces of rum.
What in the world are you talking about? Six ounces  ?
Higher mathematics. Two ounces to a drink  three drinks, six ounces.
How do you know there's two ounces in a drink?
I'm a nurse. I always watch people when they pour something. I watched TiJoseph and it was exactly two ounces.
Listen, did I tell you that story about the little mule at the plantation  the little mule and Clement? Let me tell you. It's one of the funniest stories 
Wait. I want to listen.
Don't let it bother you so, Wes.
Did you hear what he sang?
I wish I hadn't heard 
Why? Everybody else knows it. Paul saw to that. Sometimes I think he planned the whole thing from the beginning  just to watch me squirm.
That doesn't sound like him.
That's right  he's playing the noble husband for you, isn't he? That won't last long.
I'd like to go now, Rand. Would you mind taking me home?
One of these days he'll start on you, the way he did on her. "You think life's beautiful, don't you, Jessica? You think you're beautiful, don't you, Jessica?" What he could do to that word "beautiful." That's Paul's great weapon  words. He uses them the way other men use their fists.
Betsy, can I talk to you a minute?
Of course, Wes.
Does she suffer? Does she know what she is?
I don't know. I once asked Dr. Maxwell the same question. He said he thought she was like a sleepwalker who would never waken.
She hated sleep. She used to say it was a thief  stealing away her life, an hour at a time...
Not to a nurse. Sleep is a cure.
She's dead. The dead ought to be buried.
But she's not dead, Wes.
You know what she is! That's death  no mind, no senses  no love, no hate, no feeling  nothing!
Please, Wes, do as I ask. You must rest, you must sleep.
No, Wes.
Jessica was never any good for Paul. You will be, you are. And Mother  seeing Jessica day after day  never able to escape, never able to forget. Please, Betsy  it's only merciful.
You're single?
Yes.
Where were you trained?
At the Memorial Hospital  here in Ottawa.
They didn't teach it at Memorial Hospital. I had my suspicions, though, about the Directress of Training.
Very well. That means that you have met all Mr. Holland's requirements. Now, as to salary  it's quite good  two hundred dollars a month.
That is good. But I'd like to know more about the case.
I'm afraid I'm not able to tell you much. Only that the patient is a young woman  the wife of a Mr. Paul Holland with whom we do considerable business.
That will mean another interview, won't it?
No, this is quite final. You see, Mr. Holland is a sugar planter. He lives in St. Sebastian Island in the West Indies.
The West Indies?
A year's contract  a trip with all expenses paid  that's not so bad, you know.
But it's so far away...
That's rather nice, isn't it?
Does she suffer?
I don't know. I prefer to think of her as a sleepwalker who can never be awakened  feeling nothing, knowing nothing.
She can never be cured?
I've never heard of a cure.
Is this disease common in the tropics?
Fortunately, not. This is my first experience with it as a physician. But I have seen halfwitted field hands  whom the other peasants call Zombies. I am sure they suffer from a similar destruction of spinal nerves as the result of high fever.
I prepared these for you last night, Miss Connell.
Thank you.
I've worked with it. I've seen cures. It is at least a hope.
It's the very danger itself that makes the cure possible, Mr. Holland. The insulin produces a state of coma, a stupor. The patient is revived from the coma by a violent overwhelming nerve shock. That nerve shock can kill  but it can also restore the damaged mind.
Miss Connell's testimony will be very important.
I would have stayed anyway, Dr. Maxwell.
I think you need some help.
I'm afraid so.
TiJoseph?
I really intended going out to the Fort and meeting you long before this, Miss Connell. I'm Mrs. Rand  Wesley's mother.
Oh, Mrs. Rand 
Come, come, don't tell me how sorry you are that I should meet you this way. I'm even a little glad that Wesley's difficulty brought us together.
Believe me, Mrs. Rand, he doesn't do this often. This is the first time I've seen him 
Nonsense, child! I know Wesley's been drinking too much lately. I know a great deal more about what goes on at Fort Holland than you'd think. I know all about you  that you're a nice girl, competent and kind to Jessica. The Fort needs a girl like you. But now we've got to get you back there. I'll walk you back and stay over night. It'll be a nice change for me.
Thank you, Mrs. Rand. I think you're every bit as nice as Wes says you are.
So  he says I'm nice. He's a nice boy, too, Miss Connell, a very nice boy. But I'm worried about his drinking.
I'd love to.
Use your influence with Paul. Ask him to take that whiskey decanter off the dinner table.
I've no influence with Mr. Holland.
Try it  you may have more influence than you think.
Some of this native nonsense. The Houngan has his prescription and Dr. Maxwell and I have ours.
You've never said anything about voodoo before, Mrs. Rand.
Haven't I? I suppose I take it for granted. It's just part of everyday life here.
You don't believe in it?
A missionary's widow? It isn't very likely, is it?
I don't mean believe, like believing in a religion. I mean, do you believe it has power? Do you think it could heal a sick person?
Frankly, my dear, I didn't expect anything like this from a nice levelheaded girl. What are you driving at?
I heard the servants talking about someone called Mama Rose. They said she had been "mindless"...
Her son drowned. She brooded until her mind was affected. All the Houngan did was coax her out of it with a little practical psychology.
Mrs. Rand.
Wait. Don't draw any conclusions. Let me explain.
But, Mrs. Rand 
I knew you'd come. And I knew I'd have to come up here and talk to you. I couldn't let you go back without any word. I came to tell you again  Jessica cannot be cured.
But how did you get here? What are you doing here?
I asked you to let me explain. It's a long story. And not an easy one 
 and when my husband died I felt helpless. They disobeyed me  things went from bad to worse. All my husband's dreams of good health, good sanitation, good morals for these sweet and gentle people seemed to die with him. Then, almost accidentally, I discovered the secret of how to deal with them. There was a girl with a baby  again and again I begged her to boil the drinking water. She never would. Then I told her the god, Shango, would be pleased and kill the evil spirits in the water if she boiled it. She boiled the water from then on.
But you didn't have to come up here.
Perhaps not. But I did come here and I found it was so simple to let the gods speak through me. Once started, it seemed such an easy way to do good. I should have known there was no easy way to do good, Betsy.
Why, Betsy  we can't lose you. You mean too much to us here.
That's sweet of you, Mrs. Rand.
Mrs. Rand...
You must, Betsy. They'll have to believe you.
Mrs. Rand was at the Houmfort that night. But there's nothing wrong with that. She's gone there for years  trying to take care of those people, to help them.
Times gone, Fort Holland was a fort...now, no longer. The Holland's are a most old family, miss. They brought the colored people to the island the colored folks and TiMisery.
TiMisery? What's that?
A man, miss  an old man who lives in the garden at Fort Holland  with arrows stuck in him and a sorrowful, weeping look on his black face.
Alive?
No, miss. He's just as he was in the beginning  on the front part of an enormous boat.
You mean a figurehead.
If you say, miss. And the enormous boat brought the longago Fathers and the longago Mothers of us all  chained down to the deep side floor.
But they came to a beautiful place, didn't they?
If you say, miss. If you say.
Good morning, miss.
Thank you for waking me.
I didn't want to frighten you out of your sleep, Miss. That's why I touched you farthest from your heart.
But I'm Miss Jessica's nurse, Alma. You don't have to do that for me.
I know, miss. But I like to do it. I like to tend for Miss Jessica and I want to tend for you. You settle right back, now, and I'll mix you your coffee.
Thank you, Alma.
Miss Jessica used to say this is the only way for a lady to break her fast  in bed, with a lacy cushion to bank her head up. If you'd only seen her, Miss Connell. She looked so pretty.
She must have been beautiful. What happened to her, Alma?
She was very sick and then she went mindless, Miss.
We'll see if we can't make her well, Alma, you and I.
I do my best. Every day I dress her just as beautifully as if she was well. It's just like dressing a great, big doll.
What's this?
A puffup, I call it. But Miss Jessica always says "brioche."
Looks like an awful lot of breakfast  I don't know whether I'll be able to get away with it.
Things so bad, nobody can help  not even Doctor Maxwell.
Doctors and nurses can only do so much, Alma. They can't cure everything.
Doctors that are people can't cure everything.
What do you mean  "doctors that are people"?
There are other doctors...Yes, other doctors...Better doctors...
Where?
At the Houmfort.
That's nonsense, Alma.
They even cure nonsense, Miss Betsy. Mama Rose was mindless. I was at the Houmfort when the Houngan brought her mind back.
You mean Mama Rose was like Mrs. Holland?
No. She was mindless but not like Miss Jessica. But the Houngan cured her.
Are you trying to tell me that the Houngan  the voodoo priest  could cure Mrs. Holland?
Yes, Miss Betsy. I mean that. The Houngan will speak to the rada drums and the drums will speak to Shango and Damballa.
I got gas, Bennie.
Yeah, tell me about it.
No kiddin', Bennie. I got gas.
Ya get the special?
Fah from it...
...Enter the dame.
There's one in every story.
Ten bucks says she's looking for a handout.
Twenty bucks says not here she don't find one.
She's looking for her mark.
She finds him.
She sits down.
...and awduhs a light lunch.
She looks in her purse...
...No money.
The mark notices.
...He's not noticing, Benny.
Maybe he's wise.
He don't look wise.
Plan two: Here come the waterworks.
Yellowstone.
Old Faithful.
Hello, Niagara.
He notices.
She's got other problems, of course...
...Her mother needs an operation...
...adenoids.
No, Bennie: Lumbago.
Maybe he's wise.
He don't look wise.
She isn't!
She is!
She's good, Bennie.
She's damn good, Lou.
...Who let you in?
I 
Tell him I'll be right there... Well, what is it?
I 
You, maybe you're the company's biggest moron. We can't use Morris, he's been with us too long, he's a nice guy, too many friends. Matter of fact, why don't you fire him. No  scratch that; I'll fire him. ...Make it fast, make it fast.
You 
...You know, for kids! Which is perfect for Hudsucker  not that I claim to be any great genius; like they say, inspiration is 99 percent perspiration, and in my case I'd say it's at least twice that, but I gotta tell ya, Mr. Mussburger, sir, this sweet baby 
Wait a minute!
...education, were you?
Well, I'm a college graduate 
All right, but you didn't excel in your studies...?
Well, I made the dean's list.
Hmmm.
At the Muncie College of Business Administration.
Sure, sure. And did your classmates there call you 'jerk' or... ...'schmoe'?
...'Shnook'? 'Dope'? 'Dipstick'? 'Lamebrain'?
No, sir.
Not even behind your back?
Sir! They voted me most likely to succeed!
You're fired.
But, sir! 
Get your feet off that desk.
But 
Get out of my sight.
My God! The Bumstead contracts!!
Oh my God, sir!
You nitwit! I worked for three years on this deal!
Oh my God, sir!
Why you nitwit. You almost destroyed the most sensitive deal of my career!
Oh my God, sir!
Not that way! Through the door!
But, sir!
Up on your feet! We don't crawl at Hudsucker Industries!
Sir, my leg is on fire!
My God! The Bumstead contracts!
Oh my God, sir!
That reminds me, Mr. Mu... uh, Sid. I never did give you that
Lobby. We haven't got all day.
Relax, Norville. It's only natural in a period of transition for the more nervous element to run for cover.
Okay, Sid. Like I said, you're the expert, but 
...You don't happen to remember the plan I outlined to you the day I set fire to your off  uh, the day I was promoted?
I do remember and I was impressed. Anyway, that's all forgotten now. Driver!
Thank you, Sid, but the reason I mention it is, it would require such a small capital investment  again, you're the expert here 
Damnit, where's my car!
 But there's such an enormous potential profitwise given the demographics  baby boom  discretionary income in the burgeoning middle class 
Finally.
 So if you think it's appropriate, I'd like to bounce the idea off a few people at lunch 
...Congratulations, kid, you've really outdone yourself. Reinvented the wheel. I'm going to recommend to the Board that we proceed immediately with this, uh... with the, uh... that the dingus be massproduced with all deliberate speed. Of course, as president of the company the ultimate decision is yours.
Well... I'm for it...
Sorry I'm late, Sid. That back nine at Riverdale is really murder.
Sure, sure, it's a tough course. Well thanks for coming, kid. I thought the board room would be a swell place to chat undisturbed  it seems we're having some security problems here at the Hud.
Ya don't say.
Mm. Ordinarily I wouldn't bother you with it, but  this is embarrassing, kid  it seems to concern you directly.
How's that, Sid?
It's not important in itself  some elevator boy you fired came to me claiming you'd stolen the idea for the, uh, the hoop dingus from him 
Huh?! He  no, I  he's just  maybe I was a little rough on the boy, ya see I 
Ah forget it, kid, ya don't have to explain to me. He's a little person. He's nothing. Like I say, ordinarily it would just be a nuisance. But it seems  well, there was a spy in the company...
 So we'd gone out to the Hamptons and the garden was in positive ruins!
That must have been quite a disappointment, Mrs. Mussburger.
Disappointment? J'etais destroyee! I was in bed for a week! Positively sick with fury! I called in the gardener and said, 'Monsieur Gonzalez, either those azaleas come up next spring or you are terminee!
I'm brushing up on my French with the most charming man, Pierre of Fifth Avenue. Do you know him?
I haven't had 
Sidney and I are planning a trip to Paris and points continental  Aren't we, dear?
Well, frankly, I...
You have a charming wife, Mr. Muss  uh, Sid.
...This'll only take a moment.
Yeah?
Good afternoon to ya, this is Norville Barnes 
Barnes! Where the hell have you been! And where's my voucher?!
...Well, I'm not sure where I 
I need that voucher! I told you a week ago it was important!
But look, I'm president of the company now and I 
I don't care if you're president of the company! I need that voucher! Now!
...Jesus Christopher  That smarts... Where was I? Oh yeah, the board. I guess Sidney's been puttin' the screws to ya, huh, Norman?
Norville.
Mm. Well, say what you like about the man's ethics, he's a ballsto thewall businessman. Beat ya any way he can. Straight for the jugular. Very effective.
Yes sir...
Anyway. Any particular reason you didn't give him my Blue Letter? I mean, Jesus, Norman, just a dying man's last words and wishes, no big deal.
Huh? Oh, geez, Mr. Hudsucker, I apologize, there was an awful lot of excitement and I guess I must've mislaid 
It's sittin' in your apron pocket, right where you left it. Imbecile.
Oh, geez.
Failure to deliver a Blue Letter is grounds for dismissal.
Geez, I 
Ah, it's New Year's, I'm not gonna add to your woes. I'm just saying.
Yessir.
Well, why don't ya read it.
Sir?
Yeah, go ahead. Might learn somethin'.
Yes sir...
'From the desk of Waring Hudsucker. To. Sidney J. Mussburger. Regarding. My demise. Dear Sid. By the time you read this, I will have joined the organization upstairs  an exciting new beginning. I will retain fond memories of the many years you and I  '
Yeah, yeah, it's the standard resignation boilerplate  go down to the second paragraph.
'Many years, uh... I know that you will be wondering why I have decided to move on, ending my tenure at Hudsucker, and here on Earth. You will be thinking, Why now, when things are going so well? Granted, from the standpoint of our balance sheet and financials, sure, sure, we're doing fine. However, Sid. These things have long since ceased to give me pleasure. I look at myself now and no longer see the idealistic young man who started this company. Now I see only an empty shell whom others call a 'success.' How has this come to pass? When and why did I trade all of my hopes, dreams and aspirations, for the emptiness of power and wealth? What the heck have I done?
'...And so, Sid, the future does not belong to such as I  nor even you. We have made our compromises with time. The future belongs to the young, who may more energetically wage the battle against corruption. Accordingly, in the spirit of hope, and the ringing in of the new, I hereby bequeath my entire interest in the company, and my seat on the board, to whomever is Hudsucker's most recent employee at the time of my demise. I know this will disappoint you  you, Sid, who have served so diligently and for so long. But '
 tough titty toenails!
...Yeah, go ahead.
'...But Sid, let me urge you to work closely with the new president, and to keep giving Hudsucker Industries all your energies  but not your soul. For while we must strive for success, we must not worship it. Long live the Hud. Waring Hudsucker...'
...What's your pleasure, buddy?
Fortyfourth floor, and it's very 
Fortyfour, the top brass floor say, buddy! What takes fifty years to get up to the top floor and thirty seconds to get down?
I 
Waring Hudsucker! Nahahahaha! Say, buddy!
Say, buddy! Who's the most liquid businessman on the street?
Well, I 
Waring Hudsucker! Nahahahaha! Say, buddy! When is the sidewalk fully dressed? When it's 'wearing' Hudsucker! Nahahaha!
My pleasure, sir.
Roast tom turkey. Gee, I'm hungry too 
Oh, uh... Buzz... Is it important?
I like to think so! It's this little idea I been working on!
...Why, this is worthless.
Huh?! But, buddy 
This is the most idiotic thing I've ever seen in my life!
Yeah, but, buddy 
Nobody wants a harebrained product like this! Ya see, Buzz, it lacks the creative spark, the unalloyed genius that made, uh...
...say, the hula hoop such a success.
But, buddy 
And what do you mean barging in here and taking up my valuable time! I've got a company to run here 
But, buddy, you were 
 I can't have every deadbeat on the Hudsucker payroll pestering me with their idiotic brainwaves!
Geez, I'm sorry, buddy 
An example must be made!
Wuddya mean, buddy?
Fired! You're fired! Is that plain enough for you, buster!
Awwww, buddy 
And don't call me buddy! Out of here! Out!
Aw, please, sir  this job, it's all I got!
Get up!
I understand if ya don't like the BuzzSucker! Just lemme keep my job, I'm prayin' to ya!
We don't crawl at Hudsucker Industries! Get out of my office! Leave your uniform in the locker room!
I'm sorry, buddy... I'm sorry...
Buzz... off! Hahahaha!
 Uh... Buzz, I'm sorry, I  Buzz, you gotta forgive me! I shouldn't a fired you, I didn't know what I was doing! I was a little funny in the head, I 
Aw, buddy, I don't care about that.
...You don't?
Nah, that's all forgotten.
...It is?
Sure, Mr. Muss  uh, Sid said I could have the job back.
Absolutely, Buzz, I'm glad he 
But he told me you stole that swell hoop idea from me. What gives!
But, Buzz 
Say, that was a swell idea!
But, Buzz, you know I never 
And Sid says you stole it!
But Buzz 
What the heck's she doin', Lou?
What the heck they doin'?
You know what they're doin' now, Lou.
This I know, Benny.
This you're familia' with.
...Geez.
...Geez.
...It's the most beautiful t'ing I ever saw.
It's the most beautiful t'ing I ever saw.
I want a martini! It's New Year's Eve and I want a Martini!
Daddy, it's like I been tellin' ya 
I thought you served misfits here!
Yeah, daddy, that's a roger, but we don't sell alcohol.
What kind of bar is it if ya can't get a martini?!
It's a juice and coffee bar, man, like I been tellin' ya 
I want a martini! On this bar, right now! I've had a martini in every bar on the way down here, and I'm not about to 
Martinis are for squares, man.
Just got hired today!
Terrific.
Ya know, entry level!
Tell me about it.
I got big ideas, though!
I'm sure you do.
For instance, take a look at this sweet baby...
Terrific.
So ya see, I won't be in the mailroom long.
Nooo, I don't guess you will be.
How long've you been down here?
Fortyeight years...
I can't print this!
Why not, it's all true! The board is using this poor guy! They're depressing the stock so they can buy it cheap!
It's pure speculation! Why, they'd have my butt in a satchel!
You don't know anything! Fact is they haven't bought it! The stock is cheap, Archer! What're they waiting for?
I don't know...
Muncie.
Whatever. That's what sells newspapers.
I've got an even hotter story  The Sap from the City Desk.
Watch it, Archer 
It's about a dimwitted editor who 
You can't print that!
He grins wolfishly.
Archer, you're a broken record. Fact is Gunderson did design it  apparently he's some kind of prodigy 
Says who?!
Whatever! It's no dig on you, Archer, but this story is hot and you're no longer on top of it. Why, it's the scoop of the century  the other papers won't have the Gunderson dope 'til tomorrow  The Allemeinischer Zeitung, Le Figaro, they'll be choking on our dust come mornin' 
You're fools, both of you! It's obvious they're out to crucify Norville! They're trying to destroy him!
Amy  take a break. You've worked hard on this story  heck, you broke it for us! But it's passed you by and Smith here has taken up the slack.
I tell ya the guy's a phony.
Phony, huh?
As a threedollar bill.
Sez who?
Sez me! Amy Archer. Why is he an Idea Man  because Hudsucker says he is? What're his ideas? Why won't they let anyone interview him?...
...On payday! The only story here is how this guy made a monkey out of you, Al.
Yeah, well, monkey or not I'm still editor of this rag. Amy, I thought you were doing that piece on the F.B.I.  J. Edgar Hoover: When Will He Marry?
I filed it yesterday.
Well, do a followup: Hoover: Hero or Mama's Boy? The rest of you bums get up off your brains and get me that Idea Man story!
I'm sorry we had to take the stairs. It was just that horrible little elevator boy...
Not at all. You're light as a feather.
The couch, please.
Hungry, anyway.
I don't want to bore you with all the sordid details of my life; it's not a happy story...
What a horrible little person.
Oh, Buzz is pretty harmless, really 
At any rate I arrived in town not ten days ago, full of dreams and aspirations, anxious to make my way in the world 
A little naive perhaps but  thank you  armed with determination, a solid work ethic, and an indomitable belief in the future 
I myself 
Cigarette?
No thank you. Seek and ye shall find, work and ye shall prosper  these were the watch words of my education, the ethics of my tender years 
 these were the values that were instilled in me while I was growing up in a little town you've probably never heard of 
Mind if I join you?
You're from Muncie?!
Why yes, do you know it?
...A Muncie girl! Talk about the cat's pyjamas! Tell you what, Amy. I'm gonna cancel the rest of my appointments this afternoon and get you a job here at the Hud.
Oh, no, really, I 
Don't bother to thank me, it's the easiest thing in the world. Matter of fact, I know where a vacancy just came up.
Oh, of all the foolish... Listen, do you take shorthand? Are you familiar with the mimeograph machine?
Of course  I went to the Muncie, uh, Secretarial Polytechnic!
 A Muncie girl! Can you beat that!
Well, I just don't know how to thank you, Mr. Barnes 
Please! Norville!
...Did you happen to see the front page of today's Manhattan Argus?
Well, I... didn't bother to read the article. I didn't think the picture did you justice.
The picture was fine! It's what that knuckleheaded dame wrote underneath! Of all the irresponsible... Amy, take this down: Dear Miss Archer. I call you 'Miss' because you seem to have 'missed' the boat completely on this one! How on earth would you know whether I'm an imbecile when you don't even have the guts to come in here and interview me man to man! No, change 'guts' to 'courage.' No, make it 'common decency.' These wild speculations about my intelligence 
 or lack thereof?
 these preposterous inventions, would be better suited to the pages of Amazing Tales Magazine. If the editors of the Manhattan Argus see fit to publish the rantings of a disordered mind, perhaps they will see fit to publish this letter! But I doubt it. I most seriously doubt it. As I doubt also that you could find a home at Amazing Tales, a periodical which I have enjoyed for many years. Yours sincerely, et cetera.
Is that all, Mr. Barnes?
...Well, you know me, Amy, at least better than that that dame does. Do you think I'm an imbecile?
I'm sure I 
Go on, tell the truth; I trust you and I put a lot of stock in your opinion.
Well, I 
Oh sure, you're biased  you're a fellow Muncian. But would an imbecile come up with this?
...You know! For kids!
...Why don't I just type this up...
Aww, naw, Amy, that won't be necessary. I shouldn't send it; she's just doing her job, I guess.
Well, I don't know; maybe she does deserve it. Maybe she should've come in to face you man to man.
Well, she probably had a deadline...
Sure, but  she could still have gotten your side for the record!
Well, it's done now  what's the use of grousing about it. Forget the letter, Amy, I just had to blow off some steam...
Confused?
Yeah, you know, probably one of these fasttalking career gals, thinks she's one of the boys. Probably is one of the boys, if you know what I mean.
I'm quite sure I don't know what you mean.
Yeah, you know. Suffers from one of these complexes they have nowadays. Seems pretty obvious, doesn't it? She's probably very unattractive and bitter about it.
Oh, is that it!
Yeah, you know. Probably dresses in men's clothing, swaps drinks with the guys at the local watering hole, and hobnobs with some smooth talking heel in the newsroom named Biff or Smoocher or...
Smitty.
Exactly. And I bet she's ugly. Real ugly. Otherwise, why wouldn't they print her picture next to her byline?
Maybe she puts her work ahead of her personal appearance.
I bet that's exactly what she tells herself! But you and I both know she's just a driedup bitter old maid. Say, how about you and I grab a little dinner and a show after work? I was thinking maybe The King and I 
...What happened?
Oh. Nothing, really, just... the more timid investors are no longer running for cover.
Let me look.
Sid found me the icepack.
Let me hold it, or you'll have a real shiner.
Thanks. People seem to be pretty hot over this imbecile story.
...I'm sorry.
Oh, it isn't your fault, Amy. You're the one person who's been standing by me through all this.
Norville... there's something I have to tell you. You see, I'm not really a secretary.
I know that, Amy.
...You do?
I understand that you're not very skilled yet in the secretarial arts. I'm not that skilled as president. Oh sure, I put up a big front   not that everyone's buying it.
I believe in you, Norville  At least I believe in your... intentions 
Oh, I don't blame them, really. I guess I have sort of made a mess of things. These folks have to protect their investment. Most of them are very nice people 
Norville, you can't trust people here like you did in Muncie...
...Certain people are 
Didja ever go to the top of old man Larson's feed tower and look out over the town?
...Huh?
You know, on farm route 17.
Oh yes! In Muncie!
No! In Vidalia! Farm Route 17!
Uh  Yes. Seventeen. Yes, I  well no, I  I never really... There's a place I go now, the cutest little place near my apartment in Greenwich Village. It's called Ann's 440. It's a beatnik bar.
You don't say.
Yes, you can get carrot juice or Italian coffee, and the people there  well, none of them quite fit in. You'd love it  why don't you come there with me  they're having a marathon poetry reading on New Year's Eve. I go every year.
Every year?
Well  this year  if it's good I plan to make it a tradition. Uh, my it certainly is beautiful 
...The people look like ants.
Well, the Hindus say  and the beatniks also  that in the next life some of us will come back as ants. Some will be butterflies. Others will be elephants or creatures of the sea.
What a beautiful thought.
What do you think you were in your previous life, Amy?
Oh, I don't know. Maybe I was just a fasttalking career gal who thought she was one of the boys 
Oh no, Amy, pardon me for saying so but I find that very farfetched.
Norville, there really is something I have to tell you 
That kind of person would come back as a wildebeest, or a warthog. No, I think it more likely that you were a gazelle, with long, graceful legs, gamboling through the underbrush. Perhaps we met once, a chance encounter in a forest glade. I must have been an antelope or an ibex. What times we must have had  foraging together for sustenance, picking the grubs and burrs from one another's coats. Or perhaps we simply touched our horns briefly and went our separate ways...
I wish it were that simple, Norville. I wish I was still a gazelle, and you were an antelope or an ibex.
Well, can I at least call you deer? Hahahahaha! Seriously, Amy, the whole thing is what your beatnik friends call 'karma'  the great circle of life, death and rebirth.
Yeah, I think I've heard of that. What goes around comes around.
That's it. A great wheel that gives us each what we deserve...
Oh, Norville 
Kiss me once, Amy! Kiss me once for luck!
Sure, Norville, sure...
For Pete's sake, Norville!
Oh! Hello, Amy  was it  I thought she said, Mamie 
Never mind about that...
...You know what those nincompoops in the boardroom are doing?
Well, I wouldn't call them nincom 
They're going to discharge eight percent of the work force here at Hudsucker. Why, in New York alone that means eighteen hundred people out of work, people with wives and children and families 
Well yes, we're pruning away some of the dead wood, but if 
You mean you know about this?
Know about it? You think the Board would do anything like this without my authorization? No, this was my idea from the start.
Your i 
We have to be realistic, Amy. You know things have slowed down a little here at Hudsucker 
You're awful kind to yourself, Norville Barnes  the fact is you've slowed down, sitting up here like a sultan, not doing a lick of work! Why you know it's ideas that are the lifeblood of industry and you haven't come up with one since the hoop and the reason's plain to see! You've forgotten what made your ideas exciting for you in the first place  it wasn't for the fame and the wealth and the mindless adulation of  would you get out of here?!
...I've been watching you, Norville Barnes, even though you've been trying to avoid me 
Now, Aim 
Shutup!  and don't think I haven't noticed how you've changed. I used to think you were a swell guy  well, to be honest I thought you were an imbecile 
Now, Aim 
Shutup!  but then I figured out you were a swell guy, a little slow maybe, but a swell guy! Well, maybe you're not so slow, but you're not so swell either and it looks like you're an imbecile after 
Now, Aim 
Shutup!  after all! You haven't talked to me for a week and now I'm going to say my piece. I've got a prediction for you, Norville Barnes: I predict that since you've decided to dedicate yourself to greed and sloth and everything bad, you're going to lose all the good things that your good ideas brought you. You're going to throw them all away chasing after money and ease and the respect of a Board that wouldn't give you the time of day if you... if you...
Worked in a watch factory?
Now, Amy 
Consider this my resignation 
...You son of a 
Norville!
Huh?!
...Oh, it's you! Lookin' for a nitwit to buy your lunch?!
Oh Norville, I 
Barman! Set'm up, fella!
Norville, I'm sorry, I... I tried to tell you... so many times... It's hard to admit when you've been wrong. If you could just... find it in your heart to  to give me another chance 
Hey! Where's that martini?!
Just give me another chance, Norville  I can help you fight this thing. I know this last story was a lie! We can prove it! We can 
Aww, what's the difference. I'm all washed up... When you're dead, ya stay dead... Hey, fella!
Well that just about does it! I've seen Norville Barnes, the young man in a big hurry, and I've seen Norville Barnes the selfimportant heel, but I've never seen Norville Barnes the quitter, and I don't like it!
And is this guy from chumpsville?! I pulled the old mother routine 
Adenoids?
Lumbago.
I'm telling you, Smitty, the board of Hudsucker is up to something 
Yeah.
About seven minutes.
Yeah, I was all wet about your idea man... Well, thanks for being so generous... It is human, and you are divine... No, he's no faker. He's the 100% real McCoy bewareof imitations genuine article: the guy is a real moron 
I'm tellin' ya, this guy's just the patsy and I'm gonna find out what for. There's a real story, Smitty, some kind of plot, a setup, a cabal, a  oh, and say, did I tell ya?!
He didn't offer you money.
A sawbuck!
Ten dollars? Let's grab a highball!
On Norville Barnes!
Ol' satchelbutt...
I know they're gonna buy that stock 
 and she's dynamite!
But, Al, it's the bunk! Norville showed me his design for the whatsit the day I met him! Why Buzz couldn't have invented it  look at the man  he's an imbecile!
Yeah, and I'll bet his initials are Sidney J. Mussburger!
You've lost it, Aim. You've gone soft by the looks of it  soft on the dummy from Dubuque 
Muncie!
Who are you? How did you know who I am?
Ah guess ole Moses knows jes about ever'thing, leastways if it concerns Hudsuckuh.
But  who are you  what d'you do here?
Ah keeps the ol' circle turning  this ol' clock needs plenty o' care. Time is money, Miss Archuh, and money  it drives that ol' global economy and keeps big Daddy Earth aspinnin' on 'roun'. Ya see, without that capital fo'mation 
Yeah, yeah. Say, you won't tell anyone about me, will you?
I don't tell no one nothin' lessen they ask. Thatches ain't ole Moses' way.
So if you know everything about Hudsucker, tell me why the Board decided to make Norville Barnes president.
Well, that even surprised ole Moses at fust. I didn't think the Board was that smart.
That smart?!
But then I figured it out: they did it 'cause they figured young Norville for an imbecile. Like some othuh people ah know.
Why on earth would they want a nitwit to be president?
'Cause they's little pigglies! They's tryin' to inspire panic, make that stock git cheap so's they can snitch it all up fo' themselves! But Norville, he's got some tricks up his sleeve, he does...
...But I guess you don't really know him any better than that board does, do ya, Miss Archuh?
Well, maybe I 
An' only some kind a knucklehead thinks she knows things 'bout things she, uh  when she don't, uh  How'd that go?
It's hardly the same 
Why you don't even know y'own self  you ain't exactly the genuine article are you, Miss Archuh?
Well, in connection with my job, sometimes I have to go undercover as it were 
I don't mean that! Why you pretendin' to be such a hard ol' sourpuss! Ain't never gonna make you happy! Never made Warin' happy.
I'm happy enough.
Okay, Miss Archuh. ...I got gears to see to.
I'm plenty happy!
...Hello?
Them po' young folks. Looks like Norville's in fo' the same kind o' heartache ol' Warin' had. But then, she never axed me 'bout dat...
My God, why?! Why did he do it?! Things were going so well!
What am I a headshrinker? Maybe the man was unhappy.
He didn't look unhappy!
Nobody told me! Nobody told me! You sold all of our stock?
We dumped the whole load. Now quit showboating, Addison 
I had twenty thousand shares! I'd be a millionaire now!
Sure, sure, we'd all be millionaires. There's no point in looking back. At the time, Stilson thought dumping our position would panic the market, further depress the stock  then we'd buy it all back, and more of course, once it got cheap 
Cheap! Cheap! It's never been more valuable! And I'm ruined! Ruined!
We'll call it the Flying Donut!
The Dancing Dingus!
The Jerky Circle!
Something short.
Sharp.
Snappy.
With a little jazz.
The Shazzammeter!
The Hipster!
The DaddyOh!
The Circleo'Gaiety!
The Hoopsucker!
The Hudswinger!
The Hoopdeedoo!
The Hudsucker Hoop!
Don't I know you...
You just might. I'm the guy who tricked you into robbing a government installation and then had you sent to prison for it. At the time, I was bald with a beard, no moustache, and I had a different nose, so if you don't recognize me, I won't be offended.
Bastard, you're going to need another nose!
But I'm not the type of guy to hold a grudge.
I used you as a diversion. while you were getting captured upstairs, I was shredding documents in the basement. Deep down, I guess I was just jealous. You were one incredible thief...
To what do I owe the dishonor of a reunion, you centrally intelligent scumsicle.
I Want to make things up to you. That's why I got you this gig, doll. Hawk, my name's George Kaplan and to quote the late, great Karen Carpenter, "We've only just begun."
Three minutes, twentythree seconds. If you think I'm doing another...
Hush. My employer wants a meeting.
Employer? The president?
No, somebody powerful. Oh. Look. what's that up there?
I'm supposed to fall for that?
Shucks. Guess not.
Hawk, Hawk, Hawk. Enjoying Italy? I always had a soft spot for Rome. Did my first barehanded strangulation here. Communist politician.
Why George, you big softie...
God, I miss communism. The Red Threat. People were scared, the Agency was respected, and I got laid every night.
Thanks for sharing.
We blow up space shuttles for breakfast. You and your friend Alex would be a late afternoon Triscuit.
If you do anything to my friend...
Yeah, right. By the way, as long as I'm getting things off my chest, I'm the one who killed your little monkey. Made it look like a Mafia hit. Did it for fun. Ciao.
Can't you see the Mayflowers doublecrossed you...
They may be scum, but if I get the Da Vinci model back, then we'll be roasting weenies on the beach.
I don't think you'll appreciate their choice of weenie.
I can't believe this. I'm in fucking Russia, or do I have to say, the fucking Soviet Union and I'm shooting a nonBolshevick. I never thought I'd say "I'm just in this job for the money." Sad. Any last immature quips?
No. But why do you let Butterfinger keep those blood stains on his shirt?
Why does this have to be so hard...
Tell me about it...
This is the worst night...
When it rains, it pours. Name's Snickers. The plane leaves in 40.
You know Kaplan, if you weren't the slimiest pinata of shit that ever lived, I'd feel sorry for you.
Good news, bud, the Mayflowers have moved up the timetable. You're hitting the Vatican tonight.
Tonight? You're whacked. The timing's off, I'm underequipped Damnit, I have a date!
Don't be stupid...they...
Bastard! If you were a true American.
Just shut up and hit me!
Damnit, I hate this! I'm a cat burglar! Nobody said anything about this fighttothedeath shit.
Too bad.
Guess I know who wears the penis in this family.
For God's sake, chain this convict.
Anybody have a cigarette? But seriously, do me a favor and Concorde me back to prison. I don't care anymore. I hope you have the receipts for the threads.
You go back, you won't be alone. You'll have a diabetic barkeep cellmate. You're still young enough to have fun shanking child molesters for a pack of smokes, but "Alex" will go in knowing that the next time he gets out it'll be to attend his own funeral. Depressing.
You wouldn't risk the dime to call the police. You have no proof.
Get away from there, convict!
Just browsing. Don't touch me....
Big girls don't cryIeye.
Two minutes, 35 seconds. Damnit, I'm involved in this thing, so I just wanna know what this thing is. I wanna be treated as an adult.
Cool, isn't it? Weight, feel, mal1eability, they're all but identical. On the periodic chart of elements, they're but one proton apart. Great minds worked for centuries to turn worthless into priceless.
Alchemy.
Sure. The Kremlin. Makes sense. The Kremlin. Why not? Listen, this is all too Indiana Jones and the Lost City of King Tut for me, man. Throw me in jail and go ahead, just try and throw Alex...
Jail, you asshole! Our foot soldiers will blow your brains out! Bunny, BallBall!
Bunny, not you too?
You've got a dilemma, tiger. I think I know what's going to help you solve it.
I hate a man with a sense of humor. While you corn dogs were comparing the lengths of your masculinity, we obtained the helicopter the new fashioned way: a thoroughly corrupt business deal.
If you think you're getting past me...
You killed a friend. Why should I help you go for the gold?
It'll take a couple of years of steady production, but I'll flood the market with so much gold that gold itself, the foundation of all finance, will lose its meaning. Brokers, economists, and fellow entrepreneurs will drown in the saliva of their own nervous breakdowns. Markets will crash crash. Financial Empires will crumblecrumble.
Except yoursyours. The goal of world domination. Well, if you put it that way, Minnie. How can I resist?
You can't, convict! You're just a shmoe! Every shmoe has the fantasy the planet revolves around them. It rains, car crash stops traffic, you say "How could this happen to me?" It's a natural inclination. But for I, this isn't a fantasy, it is <u>reality</u>! You are on my planet! You walk around the corner for coffee, out of my sight, you do not fucking exist! The lives of shmoes like you have meaning only in relation to the rich, to the powerful, to ME!
If you pull this off, I can't promise I won't kill you. I mean, who we trying to kid? But I will spare the Flying Nun here....
And to think I thought you were Evil Incarnate in pumps.
I killed some lovable working class Italiandiabetic, but you killed the most significant male figure of the decade and a kind, gentle lover. So don't play with me.
Have a seat. Good to see you, buddy ol' pal...
The pleasure's all yours, Officer Gates.
Why do you show your parole officer such disrespect? Especially after I got you such a nice job.
What job?
The auction house, asshole. One night's work and you're free like no excon's ever been. No checking in with a shrink, no community service teaching retards how to play air hockey. It's a great deal, I can't lie.
The only thing you can't do is get sex for free. I know I was in prison for like basically the 80's, but, call me daffy, aren't you supposed to <u>stop</u> me from committing crimes. You know, BookemDano, Callforbackup, GiveaHootDon'tPollute.
You wouldn't be out if it wasn't for me! I did dog and pony for you! You think they would have let you out after what you did, you told the board members they looked like the Three Stooges...
How was I supposed to know they were women? Besides one of them was bald and kept saying "Soitinly."
Remember that guy in the cell next to you who hung himself?
Yes.
Remember that shoe you lost...
Uh, yeah. Cut to the chase.
What else do you got under there ... I don't want to be rude, but this is all pretty lame.
That's the beauty. It's bullshit, but I can make it stick because I'm a good guy parole officer and you re a bad guy who's about to find out that there's a thin line between excon and escape con.
Hudson Hawkins gets the chair of honor. How about a Gatesarita? I used real hot dogs.
Weren't you the bartender at Jonestown?
All this trouble for a horsey. I may not know art, but I know what I like.
You certainly do.
So when's that SebastianCabot BuckinghamPalacelooking Butlerhead getting here?
For those kind of wages, I could have built the factory in America! They're Vietnamese, can't we just give them more Bart Simpson shirts? I hear depressing news like this and I want to commit genocide! Alfred, hold my calls. So, Hawk! The Hawkster! What do you think of the vehicle?
You could host American Bandstand in here. Why did you duck at the auction, asshole?
Because I didn't want to get hurt, taterhead.
So Hawkasaurus, I won't mince words...
Whatever. You own Boardwalk, you own Park Place, you own the four railroads. You think you're God. For all I know, you're probably right. I just wanted to have a damn cappuccino, maybe play some Nintendo after I find out what it is. Man, why didn't you just <u>buy</u> the horse? What am I saying, you did buy it...
Oh... Let's see. There are organizations that think we wanted the "Sforza" for reasons other than putting it in the Da Vinci museum we're building in Vinci. Hopefully, these organizations think our plan has been ruined with the explosion of our replica. If I seem vague, grand. We want a low profile on this, that's why I got Kaplan and the Candy bars involved. I helped George help the Mario Brothers and Gates help get you out....
If you're pausing for a "thank you," give it up. So boss, you going to tell me what the crystal piece inside the pony means?
Way to go, Alfie! How many people did you break that thing in front of. Good help's hard to find.
I guess that's a no.
Come to think of it there is a part of your body that you won't need for your next job...
Hey, guys, I've always wanted to sing like Franki Valli and the other seasons, but come on....
I'll torture you so slowly you'll think it's a career! I'll kill your family, your friends, and the bitch you took to the Prom!
You want an address on that last one?
What a pleasant surprise. You're probably wondering...
But you're going to tell us anyway...
Outbid by my own wench, quelle bummere.
Poor baby..... Here, Bunny.
Hawkmeister, we got you clothes, great hotel, and a 250,000 lira per diem.
That's two hundred dollars a day? So he can get a hooker and some tequila. Veto, Darwin.
We want Da Vinci's sketchbook, what do they call it, the Codex.
Listen Hawk, this might be hard to believe, but I'm a regular joe. I just want to be happy and happiness comes from the achieving of goals. It's just when you make your first billion by the age of 19, it's hard to keep coming up with new ones. But now finally I got my new goal. World domination. With your help...Bunny....quit that!
Bunny, ballball! Bad bunny!
Haven't you ever seen, like David Niven? You know tiptoe in, tiptoe out.
Like a "cat", one could say.
No, let me!
I don't care.
So, Captain Hawk, in one of your paws you got a gold bar worth about 8 thou. In the autre, you got lead that won't get you gelato.
Surely a masterthief like you can tell the difference.
Alchemy! Is the business term of the 90's, my man! Minerva read about it in an airline magazine about four years ago. I dumped some lira into research... Shazam, we come across a diary by one of Da Vinci's apprentices detailing La Machine de Oro, the gold machine for those at home, and the rest is about to become history. Money isn't everything, gold is. Fuck blue chip stocks! Fuck Tbills! Fuck Junk Bonds! I got the real deal! Money will always be paper but gold will always be gold!
Market crashes. Bomb drops. Greenhouse effect affects. We'll still be the richest, most powerful people in the world. In 1992, Europe is coming together to become one business superpower. It's one party we'd love to poop.
Well, that said, the last ingredient in the recipe is in, get this, you're gonna die, the Kremlin.
I look at you Soviet people and I feel... pity... superiority. Most of your life, your government has told you that Capitalism turns people into robots who'd rather eat microwave sushi, naked in the back of a Cadillac than hear the laughter of children.
We're here to say, your government was right.
So let's get busy. Have some fun and make some deals.
I knew it! I told you it was a fake.
That NewYorkItalianFather madetwentybucksaweekson ofabitch. What was our bet? A million?
Million five, lover...
How many times do I have to say it? I didn't put the hit on Little Eddie... Never had anything against that kooky chimp. I actually found him, "endearing."
Sure. Face down. Two endearing shots to the back of the head. That's your mark, man. What did Little Eddie ever do to...
You're hitting Rutherford's Auction House. Easy as my brother's wife. Directions are in the bag. Just open the seventh floor safe and take out the thingie...
Or you cut off my thingie. Directions even your brother would understand.
Hawk, you're a great thief. Got set up, did some time, nothing to be ashamed of. Don't give me a sonata about you always just really wanted to settle down, open a hardware Store and sell spatulas...
If the Mario brothers weren't Jersey's third largest family, I'd say kiss my ass. But considering your status, I'll say slurp my butt.
What's your favorite sport, Hawk?
Baseball, why?
Good job, not pretty, but good.
Ah, the mafia, the cops; do I know how to party or what?
Way to go, Anna.
When the Mayflowers find out we have the Codex, they're going to want to make a deal...
And then we'll arrest those greedy pigs... Is that it?
It's the site of their new museum and we're taking it over. Operation Deflower Mayflower is going full speed ahead.
Oh Lord.... the only reason I ask is that Hudson, uh, Mr. Hawk, Hawkins, had some "neat" things to say about Darwin, Minerva, and you. Basically that you're part of the same car pool.
Anna. Anna. Anna. If that were true, Almond Joy would have handed you your heart right after you handed me the Codex. Now, get some sleep. Kit Kat...
Cat got his tongue?
Actually he never told us what it was.
Oh, the shit is going to hit the fa
Fantastic. Perfection. The Vatican extends its jealousy to the lucky bidder.
My God, that was bold of you, you didn't have to do that...
Forget about itit was nothing anybody would have done the same thingIt's an impulse...
No, I meant you didn't have to tackle me and rip my dress. A polite push, perhaps? A clear shout of "watch out, Anna" would have done nicely...
Excuse me, Milady. I would have flown over and carried you up to a pink cloud, but I left my cape at the cleaners.
Thanks tough guy, thanks a lot. Why was the guard chasing you?
Because Danger, Doc, is my middle...
Tough guy. What are youHow's your head.
Yes, and my giraffe loves it, too...
As you know, the Da Vinci Codex, has lived in the Vatican for centuries and will continue to live here for centuries more.
That's what you theenk.
Question, sir? His untiring pen predicted the airplane, the submarine, the bicycle, the helicopter, and even the tank.
Come on, this stuff will knock you out. Have you ever had the feeling you were being followed, Mr. Bond.
Never, why do you ask?
Whoa. Name's Hawkins, Eddie Hawkins. My nickname's Hudson Hawk, but don't call me Hudson, not even as a joke. The Nuns at St. Agnes called me that and they're the ones who helped make me what I am today. Not a compliment...
Sure Hudson. Are you going to tell me why you did that back there or are you going to blame it on Dumbo?
Could you believe that crazy elephant?
Whoa, part 2. Does it go to Times Square?
Delivers up to ten at night. The Pope has an obsession with his Easter Seals. It's actually not that an unusual setup. The secret passageway on the other hand....
The Vatican is made of constant mysteries meant to be enjoyed, not explained.
Nice. But right out of our brochure.
Oh, you read that.
Actually I wrote it. It's a good sentence. It can apply to people.
You're not an unmysterious thang yourself.
I don't steal stuffed elephants from little girls. And I buy my own clothes. My life's a little boring...
God, I wish I could say the same thing. What about having a nice, dull dinner with me tonight. Scrabble, Knockknock jokes, Anecdotes about famous dead Italians....
I'll bring my entire repertoire...
And I'll bring my entourage...
Secret passageways don't mean as much as they used to. There's a place two blocks east of here. Enzo's. Say 10:30.
Said.
Oh Hudson, I was worried you weren't going to drop by....
I never break a date. Scout's honor.
This is bueno. They had the worst ketchup in prison.....uh...
Prison?
I was the Warden?
How long were you in?
Let's just say, I never saw E.T.
Wow, you were "in the joint." "Doing hard time." It's funny, but that excites me. I seem to have a thing for sinners.
I seem to have a thing for sinning. sinning. Check please....
What have you been doing?
Uh....old badminton injury.
tickles, ticKleS, TICKLES.
Oh, I'm so sorry...
I'm sorry. I can't. I....
Hey now, outside of a very friendly dog this morning, it's been a slow decade. I don't make love every ten years, I get a little cranky.
It's also been a long time for me. I
Catholic girls are scary...
Somebody robbed the Vatican.
Oh. No.
It's not what you think. Okay, maybe it is....
You really went and did it. With one day, not even a day, of planning, you did it. Nobody does it better, Hudson. You started the week stealing the Sforza and you ended it swiping the Codex.
Wha
What are your plans for the weekend? Hoisting away the Colosseum? Tell me, did the devil make you do it or did Darwin and Minerva Mayflower?
For two years, I've been tracking the Mayflowers' peculiar interest in three Da Vinci pieces. Their Sforza replica was as fake as the "gas leak" that supposedly destroyed it.
Does everyone in the world know more than me? Jesus, I'm just some guy who happens to be good at swiping stuff.....Lifted a piece of licorice when I was one and a half. Who knew it would lead... They even got the CIA involved!
The C.I. what? God, no...
Ooh, I guess I do know something Here's looking at you, kid...
This doesn't taste like cappuccino.
Oh, I must have put too much ethylchloride in it.
Hudson, don't you understand...
And you, Dr. Cappucino, you're lucky I don't hit women, assuming you are a woman. I'm not taking anything for granted anymore.
IworkforacovertVaticanhumanitarian organization. TheCIAmadeafoolofme. Icareforyou...
Oh. Well, what's this?
Where did you get this?
You know, the place where you gave the bad guys the Codex.... the Mayflower Museum.
It's from the machine. All they need is the crystal to run it and they have 2/3 of it already. We can't let that happen.
You better believe I can. I'm sick of people telling me what I have to do.
It's that kind of selfish attitude that...
Selfish attitude? I'm just some guy who wants a little nap and a cappuccino for when he wakes up, not too much foam...
You re not "some guy" anymore, Hudson. Right now, you're the only guy. Without your help, I....
Hey, don't take your disguise so seriously.
Uh, yeah. Guess I'm a wee bit nervous. I'm sorry I could only score clergy passports.
Fits my new image. A thief for the masses. This is one job I'm not going to feel guilty about enjoying. Gum.
Oh Hudson...
I told you not to call me Hudson. The only people who called me that were the nuns at...
Oh Hudson, I'm a sister of the Catholic church as well as an agent.
This is too bad to be false.
I hope you know what....
Trust Leonardo....
Wha.....
Da Vinci made the real directions in a secret script that I decoded. The way the machine is running now, the gold will produce too quickly, clog, and the machine will shut itself down. Isn't it wonderful?
Yeah, but what would happen if that little mirror came out of the crystal.
Wha  you don't want to know...
I wanna know...
Holy shhthings are going to get very interesting, very fast. Da Vinci would be proud of you.
Have I ever told you the world is beautiful... I'd really like to play Nintendo with you, or something...
Hudson, I'm afraid I'm sticking with God. But you're a close second, tough guy. What is that smile?
I got my planet back.
Did he mention the Mayflowers?
No, your Eminence. I think he's going to steal the Codex, as early as next week.
Attempt, you mean. The vanity of this man, Hudson Hawk. The Vatican has foiled the advances of Pirates and Terrorists. We will not lie down for some schmuck from New Jersey. Must you flirt with him so realistically?
That's the best kind. A wise woman once said "Polite conversation is rarely either."
Let me be the one to quote Scripture. ....As an agent of our organization, you are put in awkward situations. Just remember, Hudson Hawk is an evil, evil man.
Yeah. The big E.
Hit me with your best shot.
I betrayed a man. A good man. An innocent man. A thief.
Anna, what are you trying to say...
He came into a world where crime is a legitimate business tactic and a legitimate government procedure. But he knew Right and Wrong. Oh, and we kind of messed around...
"Messed around" messed around? I know I don't want to know. First base? Second Base? Stop me when I'm getting warm...
A little petting is not the issue!
Sorry. Seventeen Hail Marys and five minutes outside.
You got it. Operation Deflower Mayflower is a bad joke and I'm the punchline. I thought we were using the CIA to help us to get Mayflower, but really the CIA was using me to keep us away from Mayflower.
Oh, why couldn't I be the Cardinal in charge of catering.... If the Mayflowers get the three sections of Da Vinci's crystal and his instructions for the gold machine AieyiDo we got anything? What of Alex, Hawk's friend, where is his loyalty?
I'm going to find out.
I'm sorry for losing it back there, but you must remember, sister, you have vows to God as well as a mission to the world.
I know, I know, your Eminence, just say "God go with me."
God go with you, sister.
Come on, Pierre, Steakburger, Frennch Fries. This is France, you gotta have French.....
Actually we're in Italy, Snickers, she said as if it made a difference.
Italy, France, Moscow. They all just wanna be Nebraska. Old Man Kaplan thinks since Communism is dead, we got nothing to do. Man, Democracy isn't free elections. We gotta teach the world that Democracy is Big Tits, College Football on Saturdays, Eddie Murphy saying the word "Fuck" and Kids putting their hands down garbage disposals on "America's Funniest Home Videos."
Damn baby, when's the last time you had a vacation...Jesus, I gotta get out of this job. If my Mom knew her daughter assassinated the leader of the antiApartheid movement....
Quit bitching, you got the employee of the month plaque for that shit...Ah to be in Pariis and in love.
This is the room above the Art Treasures room. The lock is a Natalya ZZ, first created...
Snickers, baby, I love you like a brother, but really, who cares? Silencer bomb...
What the hell....
You're supposed to be dead!
Don't you just hate kids...
George, you promised. No Old CIA/ New CIA jokes...
I call them the MTV.I.A. Punks think Bay of Pigs is an herbal tea. They think the Cold War involves penguins and...
Grapple, Biker's bottle, hairspray, black turtleneck, Pocket Fisherman, acid, collapsible yardstick, softball, and 72 stamps. Gee Stud, this is going to be some date. No Harvey's Bristol Cream?
Snickers, make the list happen. Oh and it's one thing to play hide and seek with the Mayflower's pathetic staff, but we're sore losers. I've put jumper cables on the nipples of children and not always in the line of duty.
With all due respect to that great blouse, why didn't I cut out her heart?
Close call, but she's our only way of keeping tabs on that damn mysterious Vatican organization. Hawk, it's time to go to the principal's office....
Lucky for us, the Da Vinci is located in a wing of the Kremlin that they used to throw the Miss Ukraine pageant and stuff. It'll have the least number of guards....
As for our plan of action, anybody'd be insane to go in from the ground floor...
Ta ta, Hudson Hawk.
Toodoloo, babe.
Welcome to Rome, sir.
Yes way.
My life is not some deal. I...
It's Boston, Mr. Mayflower.
Welcome back to Vinci.
Last rites, sister?
How.
You're unemployed, Alfie. Boss is dead. Her plan is over.
My plan is just beginning. I'll forgive you for denying me the pleasure of slaughtering my boorish employers, but I'm afraid the birth of the new British Empire can have no witnesses!
Oohkay...
That's the first thing I did. Smooch the ground and taste the freedom. Sorry I was late. Miss anything?
Your timing, and your shoes, are impeccable... Good to see you, Alex, been having a lousy day.
Lousy day? The man's getting out of prison and he's having a lousy day. What, you missing out on the Cell Block Water Ballet pageant? Believe me, it's overrated.
Looks like you've been expanding your...
Don't say it, Hawkins. I'm incredibly sensitive about my fucking figure.
My next word was gonna be "consciousness." Swear to God... tubby.
That's your definition of "Hard?"
Show off. Hey, boss tune. "Come Fly with Me."
Three minutes, 51 seconds.
Still do the puzzles, still know the running times of songs, and I'll bet you're still the best damn cat burg
Not anymore. Now I'm the laziest damn cat burgI'm going to take it so straight that I won't tape a Mets game without the expressed written consent of the National Baseball League.
Now that you're born again,what do you wanna do? Statue of Liberty? Entertain some ladies? Miss Saigon tix? Seduce some women? Play Nintendo? Bone some chicks?
Come on, Alex, let's just get to Alex's. Your bar's the only place that's going to cheer me. God, I'd kill for a damn cappuccino. What the hell's a Nintendo?
Oh man, you still got a thing for those unmasculine European coffees? Who's your buddy?
So Mr. Coffee, what went down outside the prison?
Oh, not much. Mario Brothers want me to do a job.
Those dagoguineaI can say this shit I'm Italianwop motherfu
Ah, had the perfect amount of foam. Just get me to the bar... It's the one good thing in my life that'll never change....
I didn't know how to tell you. A couple brokers stopped in for Stoley Spritzers one night. Next thing I know Fast Track Digest votes us "Watering Hole of the Month." Now, I'm shopping for Aqua Salmon wallpaper.
I read about these people in Newsweek. Where's all the regulars, Crazy Jeff Cava, the Todd sisters, Indian Joe? Where's Ed Kranepool's autograph? Captain Bob's steering wheel?
Hey, get this irritable guy a cappuccino. I gotta go be a boss.
Alex, did you know this ape was going to be here...
Sure. That's why his meatballs are made out of marinated Chuck Wagon.
Hmmmm.....
Yo Pandora, quit hummming... look at this.
It's Captain Bob's steering wheel! Remember when the Captain.....
Hmmm, nasty little safe on the 7th.
The safe's a Simpson 71. Last time I played the game, Simpson only had a 40.
Just means it'll take you an extra 31 seconds to seduce. You re still the best, I know it.
But you got three guards who... Shit, what am I doing? Where's the want ads? Gonna sell some spatulas.
Hey, I'm sorry, man. I'm putting out a fire with kerosene.
This isn't funny. I'm not into this. I...
There goes five seconds...My record's eighteen.
You're not...LISTENING!
I'm sorrGoddamn Mario Brothers. Goddamn Gates. Goddamn Rutherford Auction House. By the way, how many seconds?
Rutherford Auction... that name...
Alex!
Don't wet your diapers. I'll have to change them. "Witchcraft." What's the running time?
Whoa, you better cut a bigger hole than that.
Hey, you promised......Don't worry, I'm wearing my girdle.
Cameras?
No need. Guards' station's right there.
They record everything their video surveillance takes in...
Yes, masterthief, I can see that. You said something about a plan...
You got about five minutes and change.
5:32. "Swinging on a Star."
You know they invented something while you were inside. Called a watch.
"A mule is an animal with long funny ears."
"He kicks up at anything he hears.
"He can't write his name or read a book. To fool people is his only thought."
"And though he's slippery, he still gets caught."
"And all the monkeys aren't in the zoo."
"Every day you meet quite a few."
The song's over! Come on! "You could be swinging on a star."
What am I doing here? There are so many things I wanna do that aren't this. Paint a lighthouse. Kiss a woman in Italy.
"You could be swinging on a star."
Paint a woman in a lighthouI don't want to steal a horse. Life is...
Did I miss anything?
Oh, not much. Gates just had his tonsils taken out. The hard way.
Geez, Gates was killed. Who do we send the thank you note to?
The Butler did it. Guy was a cross between Alistair Cook and a Cuisinart. Dude took Mr. Ed and humptied dumptied it over Gates's head. He said it was made by, get this, Leonardo..
Ah yes, a rare Renaissance piece. Da Vinci's "Sforza," an equestrian model of a never executed statue. I consider it to be the prize of tonight's auction of objets d'equestrian. Horse things.
Okay, you got me, Mr. PBS.
Morning edition. Seems two thieves "attempted" to steal it last night, but thanks to three "courageous" guards, it will be ready for tonight.
"Attempted." Attemptted! I'm not happy about having to steal that horse, but I do have my pride. Face it, when it comes to burglary, and sex, I....
Boing. Uh, this I don t understand...
Why try?
Because I'm tired of not understanding things. Cops, Mafia, and butlers forcing me to bust my ass to steal something, which it turns out I really didn't stealit's fucked up.
You re not thinking of going to...
Alex, my man, it's time to play a little offense. Where's your tux?
You bastard. You fucked my freedom for a lousy job.
But I said I was sorry....
No sweat, Alex, you only made the biggest mistake of <u>my</u> life. What was your perdiem?
Don't act like you've never committed a crime before, Hawkins? I know, I made call, when Anna tracked me down I...
Rio, Alex? After all they've done to...Hey, these tickets are for Moscow!
Damn travel agency. That Kremlin thing is in Moscow, isn't it?
We're going in from the ground floor.
Geez, this Art Treasures Room looks like a burnt diaphragm.
Shwoof, that makes me feel better. I can't believe this is the Iron Curtain. All the guy at Airport customs wanted to know was "Who Shot J.R.?"
You sound disappointed.
Yeah, I mean, come on, going through the Iron Curtain is supposed to be crawling underneath barbed wire, it's supposed to be strangling a guard...
Count of three?
Why not just go now?
Okay.
"Oh, we ain't got a barrel of money.
"Maybe we're ragged and funny."
Now that's a lock.
Don't worry, we'll get it...
"Oh this lock is a pain in the buutt"
"How'd we ever get such in a ruutt"
That was close....
Anna, I think you better stay....
You can be lookout!..... Take Alex's gun.
"We all had our quarrels and parted..."
"But we'll be the same as we started...
I'm a ghost. Boo.
I don't want to sound immature, but we were here first...
Alex, are you....
I can't believe you didn't notice. My weight. I lost ten pounds in Rome
You're a reed, man. I gotta get Anna. Hang in there...
Get 'em. They went down the hallway.
Let's just forget it, I mean...
Get em....
Oh thank God, you're dead...
It was so beautiful! When the blanks went off, they...
You're saying you want us to beat them to the crystal and save the world from financial disarray.
Something like that.
Well, forget about it. Hawk and I are going to Rio. We're hurt, we're tired, and a hero ain't nothing but a sandwich. Right, buddy?...
Hudson, God's given you a gift for cat burglary, you can t just...
That was beautiful.
I laughed, I cried.
The security's actually not that severe.
It doesn't have to be. Everybody knows that if you mess with the Kremlin, you'll end up in a Siberian gulag eating your own fingernails.
Delivery Entrance. Low Security.
Gum.
Eighth room down, babe...
Guards come exactly every three minutes....
Joey?
Not quite.
JP?
Live and in the flesh. How're you doing, babe?
What do you want?
Yeah right. How'd you get this number?
Will you relax? Your little girlfriend left a card, remember?
Oh. Yeah. Yeah. Well ... I'm fine. Things are great here. Joey's going to get me a job at the TV station. I'm meeting lotsa new people. It's really great.
Really?
Yeah really. I'm ...
No. I mean, really? Because I'm concerned for you, sweetheart. I care about you. I guess I miss you. I'm sorry we split up. I'm sorry I ...
You're apologizing?
Hey, it has been known. C'mon Terri, I'm not that bad a guy. I have regrets. I'd like to put things right. Don't tell me you haven't thought about me. Huh?
Well ... of course I have. I've thought. I've ... Oh, JP, you were so horrible. You really hurt me ...
I know. I know. It's bad. I'm a bad person. But I try not to be, Terri. I really do. And I really miss you.
I miss you too.
That's so good to hear, sweetheart. It really is. You know, I .. are you alone?
Yes. 53
Good ... Good ... Look, why don't you come over? You know, nothing heavy, little drink maybe, little talk. Just see how we both feel?
Oh, I don't ...
C'mon. It'll be great.
Not quite. This wasn't here.
No. But, as you can see, I'm having some work done on it. You found a real treasure for me, Terri. I hope I can show you how grateful I am.
Yeah ... yeah, it looks different.
Yeah, a girl I know helped smarten it up. Put her heart and soul into it.
A girl? Anyone I should know?
Not now, no. I mean  now that you're here, it's like she doesn't even exist, you know what I mean?
Yeah right. Look ...
Terri, listen. Why don't you come here and kiss me? I mean, it's probably ticking away in both our minds, right? Is it going to happen? Isn't it going to happen? Let's get it out of the way. See how we feel. Then we can relax. Talk. You know.
I don't think so. Not yet. I'm not ready yet.
Sure. Sure. I understand. It's cool. I mean, we've got all night.
That's terrible. What a bitch. She was obviously just using you, Terri. Ready to dump you the second she had what she needed, interfering little whore.
No. It isn't ... she wouldn't ... It's like I must have done something wrong, you know? Freaked her out. Just fucked up something good again.
Hey, you didn't fuck it up with me. You know that. It was my fault, babe, it really was. And you know I'm sorry. And I'm sorry to see you upset now. I hate to see you in pain like this.
Really?
Yes! God, yes. I ... I just want to hug you. To hold you. To tell you it's alright.
What ... What ... ?
What did you see? The same as I. Appetite sated. Desire indulged. You saw the working of the world in miniature.
That had nothing to do with the world. Not this one, anyway.
On the contrary. It has everything to do with the world. And our dreams of how it will succumb to us. You enjoyed the girl?
Yes.
Good. So did I. And that's all ...
No! No. It's not the same ... I ... No. What you did ... it was ... evil.
I understand. Their fortune was so tempting, their affection so conditional. What else could you do?
Fuck you!
Don't flee from yourself. If you have a quality, let it define you. Cultivate it. It is you. By helping me, you will help yourse...
What!? What are you talking about? Why should I help you?
Because you want to. You've always wanted to. Look at your pictures. Look at your sculptures. Look at those tawdry representations and then ... Imagine. Imagine a world of the body as canvas. The body as clay. Your will and mine as the brush and the knife. Oh, I have such sights to show you.
A dark star rising. I was bound to another's system by a soul I once possessed. A friend relieved me of that inconvenience. Now I'm free. Born again of Blood and Desire.
Hey, that's what makes the world go round.
You see, we're not so dissimilar.
But how in God's name ...
God? My God was diamond and black light. And I was his Dark Pope. All that is changed. A terrible beauty is born. With a place at my right hand for a man of your tastes.
How do we start?
It has already begun.
Welcome. 38
You're JP Monroe, right?
Uhhuh.
And this is your club. Great club. I really love it here. Great club.
Thank you.
Thank you for the drink. And the rose. Wow. That's ... really nice.
It's yours. You won it. It's a prize.
A prize? For what?
You see, everyday I have my friend John here bring ...
The barman? I thought he was called Rick?
He's a barman. Whatever. Do you mind if I continue?
I'm sorry.
Everyday I have my friend Rick here bring a newlycut red rose in with him and keep it behind the bar. And I award it to a woman of exceptional beauty.
Oh come on. There're lots of girls here who look better than ...
Don't do that! Don't put yourself down. If you have a quality, be proud of it...
... Let it define you. Whatever it is. Most of the roses die behind the bar. This is the first I've given out for nearly a month.
No. Really?
Yes really.
Wow. Thank you.
No. Thank you.
Do you mind me talking about your stuff?
Unhunh.
It doesn't bother me. I'm just not interested.
Oh. Like I'm not an interesting person.
But you gave me a rose ...
And tomorrow I'll give one to somebody else. Get dressed. Get out.
You shit. Who do you think you are?
I'm JP Monroe, you stupid little bitch. Now get the fuck out of my life.
You ... I can't fucking believe you, you bastard! You get me in here ...
Right. Like you were hogtied or something.
No. Sorry. Not interested. Not for my customers. Have you tried ...
No. No, you don't understand. We're not selling it. It came from here. We want ...
Everything sold as is. No guarantees. No returns.
No. We want ...
I took back everything bought on a whim, I'd have no business. I ...
Never mind. I'm glad it's gone. Made the store feel strange. Who'd make such a thing?
Fine. Fine. But can you tell us anything about it?
It was part of a joblot. Some loony bin they shut down. Unclaimed stuff.
What else came with it? Anything still here?
Sure. Just papers, photos. Stuff nobody'd ever want.
Can we see?
You gonna buy?
I don't know. Maybe.
Right at the back there. Middle shelves. Coupla folders. Nice stuff. I'd do you a good price.
It was off the statue. In the club.
What happened to him?
Hold on. Hold on, please. I need talk to you.
It's nothing to do with me. I wasn't even with him.
Look, lady! I told you! It's not my problem! I was just there!
Where?
Under The Underground. Can I like GO now?!
Under the Underground? What's that? Where is ...
Uhhuh?
Uh ... Hi! Is this ... er ... Joanne Summerskill?
Joey. Yeah, who is this?
You like ... left me a card? At the club?
Right. Right!
Right ... So ... Well, what do you want?
I want to talk to you. We met ... now, listen, don't hang up, OK? ... We met at the hospital last night.
Oh yeah. Yeah. Well ... Look, I'll make a deal with you ... My boyfriend threw me out, right? I'll trade you. You give me couchspace. I'll give you talk. OK?
Yeah. Sure. You mean ... tonight?
Of course tonight. Is that a problem? Like, if you've got a guy there or something ...
No. No. It's fine. Come now. I was having bad dreams anyway.
I put some decaf on. Er ... make yourself comfortable.
Right.
What?
Your dream. You said you were having a bad dream.
Oh yeah ...
... well, I've been having it for years. It's not a nightmare or anything. It's ... well, I know what it is.
What is it?
Why are you so interested?
Sorry.
No. No, it's OK. I ... It's my father.
Oh, right. Did he used to ... ?
God, no! Nothing like that. No, he died before I was born. He died in Vietnam. I never knew him. Never met him. We don't even know the details. I dream of battlefields. Of searching. Of trying to find out.
That's great.
What?
No ... I mean, it's not like great about your dad or anything. It's just I don't dream. Never have. ... Maybe it'd help if I slept sometime ... Just kidding ... No, so it's always neat for me to hear about dreams. I'm jealous. It's like everybody has another world except me. You know what I mean?
I know what you're saying but ... Never? You've never had a dream? No, you know, you do. You must. What you mean is you don't remember them.
Great. Thanks. You gonna have one?
I'm trying to quit.
Oh, go on. Have one. Fuck it. You think you're going to live forever?
Sorry. It was my father's. It's temperamental.
It's okay. It's just someone burned me once.
Oh. You wanna talk about that stuff.
Yes I do. Terri, something awful happened to that boy. I have to find out what it was.
But I don't know anything! Really. I just came out of the club and the kid was already in the street. He ...
Did you know him?
No. I'd seen him in there a few times before. He was just a punk. I'd never like danced with him or anything. Anyway, he was a thief. He must've taken it from the statue.
Taken what?
The thing! He was lying there in the street, moaning. But he pointed at it ... 22
Wait a minute. He was already ... wounded ... when you found him?
Yeah! That's what I'm saying! And it was lying next to him. And he pointed at it before he passed out and ...
Wait. Wait. The chains. Where did the chains come from?
That's what I'm trying to tell you! ...
I figured I'd make breakfast.
Right ... That's ... er ... that's nice of you, Terri. Can I ask? Is it always this ... exploratory?
Ha! I don't know yet. First time. Kitchen virgin, that's me.
I'll boil some water.
I'll do it!
No! No, that's OK. I like to. I love boiling water. It's a specialty of mine. Why don't you go watch cartoons?
This is great. And it's yours? You like own it?
The bank owns it. But I'm working on it.
Jeez, I've never owned anything. I haven't even had a room of my own since I was fifteen years old.
How have you ... ?
Guys. Sometimes friends. Mostly guys.
Wow. Lotta books. You read all these?
No. I buy them to impress people. Of course I've read them.
Cool. I read a book once. It was like all these people discovering who they used to be. You know, like reincarnation? It was really good. You ever read that?
I don't think so. But it's a fascinating subject. Did you ...
... but it is good. You know, over to the left, you can ...
Who's that?
I don't know his name ... I saw the whole story. A wounded bird was on his roof. I could hear its cries from here. He went straight to it. I couldn't've. I'd be frozen between pity and fear. But he wasn't. Its pain spoke directly to him. He picked it up. Nursed it. Fed it. And it got better. Everyday he'd watch the pigeon. Everyday the pigeon would watch him. I saw him learn. Learn that there was one more thing he had to do to make the rescue complete. And one day, just as afternoon became evening, he leaned over, opened the cage, and walked away. Didn't look back. But he heard the sound of its wings.
And he still sits there?
Every day.
Maybe he thinks it'll come back.
No. He knows it won't. It was his final act of love and part of him knows that and part of him doesn't yet.
But I don't know what's going on.
Maybe not. But you know more than I do. You know something about this box. Something about a statue?
Yeah. I found it. I knew held like it and I figured ...
Woah. Wait a minute. Who? The kid?
No. JP. My last boyfriend? He like owns the club. You know? You were there? He bought the statue.
That you found. What do you mean you found it?
I was downtown looking for a ... a friend. A guy I know. Anyway, there was this store. Like real old? Lotsa weird shit in there. I saw this statue. Pillar. Thing. I knew he'd love it. You've seen the club.
Would you know this store again?
Sure. Why?
It's Saturday morning. Let's go shopping.
Jesus. Are you sure this is the street?
Yeah. Happening, isn't it?
What on earth were you doing down here?
Terri?
Buying some drugs, alright?
Oh, Terri ...
For somebody else, alright? Not for me. I don't do that shit anymore.
Then you shouldn't even be around it. You know, it's ...
Here! Here! Pull over!
What am I looking for?
God knows. Anything. Contacts. Clues.
Joey ... ?
Help me pick 'em up, Terri. I think the lady just made a sale.
Wait ... wait. You ... you have to help me. I don't understand. Am I dreaming this?
You have to help me. You will understand. And no, you're not dreaming. Do you know where we are?
It's ... I don't know. First World War, right?
Correct. The fields of France. And many dead flowers ... Oh. Forgive me. My name was Spenser. Elliott Spenser. Captain.
Well done. Brave girl. You've probably never shaken hands with a ghost before, am I right?
Captain Spenser. Elliott. I ... What the Hell is going on?
Hell is precisely what is going on, Joey. And we have to stop it. I because of a special obligation, you because you're the only person who can help. And because you know what is right, and just, and true. Will you walk with me a while?
The war pulled poetry out of some of us. Others it affected differently. This is me a few years later. We're in India, by the way, and it's 1921. I was like many survivors. Lost souls with nothing left to believe in but gratification. We'd seen God fail, you see. So many dead. For us God, too, fell at Flanders. We adjusted to the loss. And if we mourned, we mourned in silence. Thousands drank themselves to death. Others went further. I went further. I thought I was a lost soul. But, until this frozen moment, I didn't even know what the phrase meant.
And what is ... this frozen moment?
The cusp of my life. What I was, what I am, what I will be ... past, present, future, all bound here at this timeless moment of decision. I was an explorer of forbidden vices and pleasures. Opening the Box was my final act of exploration, of discovery.
And what did you discover?
Something bad.
And why are you back? Why are we here?
Kirsty Cotton. Yes. But ... if your soul was freed, why are you back?
Because  monster as I was  I was bound by Laws. The protocol of Hell. The Box had to be opened to let me out. The truly innocent were safe. That's no longer true. The shell of the beast has been fleshed. What I was is out there, Joey. In your world. Unbound. Unstoppable.
What will he do? What does he want?
He'll do what he does best. But he'll do it unfettered. He wants to walk the Earth forever, indulging his taste for all the myriad subtleties of human suffering.
What can we do?
I like you, Joey. You ask all the right questions. There is something we can do but it will require great courage.
I don't know ...
Joey, you walked through your window from one reality to another. You're stronger than you think.
Then tell me what to do.
This is his first night on Earth. He wants to close the door behind him. Like all Lieutenants, he covets command. There's a gateway to Hell through which he can be taken back. He has to destroy it.
So where is it?
Your apartment.
Wha .... ?
The Box, Joey. He wants the Box.
I know. I know. But it's just so ... neat, isn't it? The first gig that isn't cute kids or diet gurus and it's taken away from me.
Yeah, well like you said  it's a mystery. But that's all it is. Mystery. Not malice. What, you think the station paid off every accident victim in the city to ... ?
Better hurry, Doc. A real story. With a real reporter.
Joey .... Look, you wanna ride? I can go by your place.
You'd lose the moneyshots. No. I'll catch a bus. Or a cab. Don't worry about it. Go.
OK. Be careful. And lighten up. Story of your life could be right round the corner.
That is the story of my life.
Hello?
You wanted a story. You got it. Turn on the TV now. And then get your ass down here ... ...
Doc? ... Doc ... Hello?
What do you mean?
I mean hardly any thigh. I'm telling you, Joey; shorter skirt, more lift on the legcross ... and you're made.
What, you think I'm kidding? I guarantee it. An inch more flank. Boys upstairs get hot. Bingo, you're an anchorwoman.
Jesus Christ ...
C'mon, Joey. I'm just trying to help you hit a home run here.
Yeah? Well, you just struck out. It may be a surprise to you, Brad, but I want to do it the right way. Not tight skirts. Tight stories.
Right. Like last night's doozie.
I know what I saw.
And I believe what you say. But this is TV. No pictures, no story.
Not on station time.
No. Not on station time. My story. My time.
No. But I'm a clairvoyant. I can sometimes talk to unhappy spirits inhabiting a certain place.
Oh.
Well it all depends on how much money you want to spend. A standard visit would run you about fifty pounds. That would include myself and an assistant.
And what would you do?
Well, we could bring in special equipment, monitors, sound devices, things like that.
Looks like we have some animal hairs in here. Maybe some kind of a rodent.
So is that what all this is? Someone have a problem with us living here?
Not someone. Something. I've never felt a presence that strong before.
Do you have any other physical evidence, that we can look at?
Not really. Oh, wait a minute.
Where did you find this?
It was nailed to the cellar wall.
I see some faint lettering. It appears to be the...Runic alphabet?
Runic?
Do you mind if I borrow it?
Not at all, if it can help.
There's something in there.
What?
There's something through that wall!
Well what is it!
I don't know! Trust what I'm saying, we have to open this wall!
You must be the new tenants.
And you...are?
My name is Father Seamus. I'm from Holy Rood church.
How can I help you?
What was she afraid of?
Well, I believe her mind was playing tricks on her, God rest her soul. She would hear things, see things...
Did you have dinner, father? We have plenty.
Well thank you for the offer, But I really have to go.
I hope everything works out for you, and you find happiness in your new home.
Thank you.
Perhaps I'll see you in church.
Well there's no time like the present. Good night.
Good night.
We'll never know for sure.
Hopefully the whole sad chapter is over. And everyone, including your family, will find peace. WILL I just want to...thank all of you, for everything you've done for us.
This isn't happening...
The amulet...
What...amulet?
Did you remove anything in the cellar!
I said nothing before, for fear you wouldn't believe me. I've been here before to cast evil from this house. The amulet is a guard against evil, blessed in countless rituals. It is an ancient ceremony of the early Catholic church, a ceremony whose secrets are all but lost.
So what does that have to do with Aubrey! Where is she!
We must return it, if you want your daughter back.
What are you getting at!
I said nothing before, for fear you wouldn't believe me. I've exorcised forces from this house. Eliza knew, she was there. It wants another soul, the one we've taken away. We must weaken it!
How long will it take!
It will not take long...
Keep talking!
It can't hurt you if you're not afraid Aubrey. Think about us. We're here for you, we love you...
The rain is letting up.
Yes it is. Will and Seamus look at each other 
I don't know what happened... and I don't know what you did...
I didn't do anything...God saved her...
What's going to happen?
I wish I had an answer. Evil is powerful, more so every day it seems. But I believe the worst for you and for this house is behind us.
Take care of the girl. Take care of your family. They are important.
Yes, they are.
Well, you know where to reach me. The church is a stone's throw away if you want to come to mass.
We'll be there.
You must be a Londrigan.
Yes, I am.
...at her request. She was a very religious woman.
Oh, that's nice...
May I come in?
Thank you. I believe she would have wanted it.
Did you know her very well?
She attended the church for years. A dear woman, it was sad to see her decline so rapidly.
It was a shame.
In her later years she would often get very disoriented being alone here. She would call me, and I would come by.
Well it's nice that you were there for her.
I took pity on the poor woman. This house is too big for one person to live alone in...
Your daughter's been taken.
What!
I'm going to need some blood. It must be from a woman.
Why?
The blood of a woman is birth, life. It is part of the ceremony. Seamus offers up the pin  Maura waits a beat, then takes it 
Now you must listen to me. This force is like a parasite, or a virus. It feeds on doubt, suspicion, discord... you must clear your mind as we reach out for her.
So what should we do, father?
Go ahead. I believe right now she may hear you.
Aubrey? It's mommy.
Concentrate! She can hear you!
Come back to us honey, don't be afraid!
She's coming back. Keep talking!
Come back to us honey!
Not at all. I'm just trying to put together all the evidence, to determine what it could possibly be.
Well that's what we're here for. I mean 
We don't know.
I could see if I detect the presence of something.
I think we should do it.
We're usually successful in detecting the source of most problems. Unfortunately.
What do you mean, unfortunately?
We usually find nothing. We've debunked many a reported haunting. About ninety five percent of the cases had some technical explanation.
What about the other five percent?
Where is your daughter? She might be able to give us some information.
She's at school. We've tried not to upset her more than she's been.
Ok, so we have a...presence. What do we do about it?
If we have a troubled spirit here, we have to find out why it's troubled.
I'm not sure, but I can check. Did the events start before or after you discovered this?
Before.
You've done your homework, Mrs. South.
Maura.
Maura.
Yeah, they told us this was the best.
I'm hungry enough to eat a horse.
You'll have to settle for turkey.
Is white meat all right for you, Mr. Shea?
White meat will be fine...
I could use a little help. We have to return the van soon.
Ok ok...we're just gonna head inside here...
Now remember we have to call someone about that replacing that water heater.
Yeah I'll look into that tonight.
I hope we have more success than we did with the cleaning service.
The place is pretty dusty.
Well the realtor said that was going to be taken care of and it wasn't. I'll have to call her.
Who knows... we have to get used to living around here. Maybe good help is hard to find.
Must be...
What's the matter?
Will, maybe we should have separate bedrooms for a while.
Oh come on...
I just, I don't know...
What will Aubrey think?
Aubrey knows more about us than you think.
Well maybe we don't need to remind her of it. She has a lot more to adjust to...new friends, new schools...it would be good if she had a stable family environment.
You didn't think much about that before.
Look, I thought we were all right on this, Maura. It's over. You know that.
It's just going to take a while.
Whatever you say.
To our family.
To our family.
I wish I knew more about her.
Did anyone in your family keep in touch with her?
Not really. She was just one of those names you hear growing up. You know, soandso who lives in Ireland. I really don't think anyone knew about this place.
Or what she was worth.
God rest her soul.
I don't think she willed it to me out of sentiment. She didn't even know who I was. It's just... tradition.
Are you playing tricks on me?
What?
It's not going to work. I'm too smart for you.
What the hell is that?
I don't know. That's strange.
No. Maybe it was Aubrey.
She's asleep. I think that's what I need, too. I'm starting to see things.
Yeah, well I'll be joining you shortly. I just want to...
...set up some more things.
Ok.
The heater's here.
Were you fooling with the power?
No.
Didn't you just see the power go off and on? I just had a bulb break on me!
What is it?
It was in the cellar. Weird.
Well something just happened to the power upstairs... Maura heads off and shakes her head, troubled by the event 
Weird sounds, things moving, lights going off. The videotape...
So what are you saying?
I don't know what I'm saying.
But do you agree with me?
Yeah, I'd say some weird things have happened.
Well what do you think it is?
Well, I try to keep an open mind, but...
Maybe Eliza wasn't so crazy after all.
There's got to be an explanation. It could be a magnetic flux or something, maybe the power lines are giving off something. Who knows? I don't know, I think it's kind of interesting.
Well what power lines, Will? Where? Maybe we should call someone about it.
Who?
I don't know. Someone who...knows about this kind of stuff.
Oh come on!
What about keeping an open mind?
Just because I have an open mind doesn't mean I'm going to pay some snake oil peddler to come in and shake a voodoo stick around the house.
Voodoo stick? It's nothing like that Will. You're just being cynical.
I'm being realistic. Look, I have a spiritual side. I mean, we had a priest come in and bless the house. That should count for something.
It just disappeared. Literally.
I'm sure this sounds crazy to you.
Whoa there...
Are you ok?
What are you talking about?
She has a...friend. Colleen.
A friend?
You, an imaginary friend. That's what she calls her.
How are we doing?
I think everything's ready.
Good. I'll start bringing things in.
Oh my God where is she!
She's gone!
Aubrey?! Aubrey?!
Aubrey!
Aubrey!
It doesn't matter to me. What do you mean by that?
You seem to appreciate the local scenery.
I'm fine.
Ok...
You know, I was thinking... All that stuff father Seamus said...about discord, distrust... we're doing all right, aren't we? You don't have any doubts about me, do you?
Should I...
No. You two are the most important things in my life. I don't ever want to lose you.
You don't think I know?
Know what?
Do you think I'm a fool?
What?
Nothing's changed, has it. You still want to deceive me?
What are you talking about?
Maura, what is this!
We're not going.
Not going! Are you out of your mind?! Wait!
We'll destroy you...destroy all of you!
No... NO!
Maura!
What's happening!
Are you all right?
I'm ok.
You're bleeding.
I'm all right...
Can I have this room daddy?
Sure. Did you see the others?
I want this one, daddy.
Ok. If you want this room, you can have it.
What's he doing daddy?
He's blessing the house.
Why?
For good luck honey.
Did you grow up in Ireland mister?
That's father, Aubrey. SEAMUS Well yes I did. Lived here my whole life.
Did you ever see a leprechaun?
Look daddy! It's empty!
That's great, honey.
We're here Aubrey! Look, don't be afraid. We want you to come back to us...
It's dark! I can't breathe!
I can't move!
Fight it back Aubrey. Fight it back as hard as you can!
Mommy please help me!
Don't be afraid!
Daddy, please!!!
Oh my God! She's in there!
Daddy help!
Are we going back to California daddy?
Well, that all depends.
Good night Angel...
Good night daddy.
Mommy!
Aubrey run! Aubrey stares in horror at Maura  just then the knife FADES AWAY as Maura rolls over, returned to normal 
She says she's lonely...
Where is she?
She's here.
Where is she now?
She's hiding.
She's down. Help her...
Take me to her.
Help me! Please!!!
My God, I heard something!
Can we leave out a bowl of milk, mommy?
Sure.
Mommy, the leprechauns drank the milk last night.
Well I bet you they're happy.
Can I do it again tonight?
We'll have every leprechaun in Ireland here honey.
Don't play games with me, little girl.
I didn't do anything, mommy.
Well then who did?!
Maybe it was Colleen...
Who...is Colleen?
It's going to hurt us!
No it won't  no it won't!
Honey, isn't your friend's name Colleen?
Yes.
Can you talk to her?
She talks to me.
She's down...
She's down...how do you mean honey?
Aubrey, come on down and have some dinner!
Ok...
My angel!
I'm scared!
Are we leaving mommy?
Yes, we'll be leaving soon.
Where are we going to go, mommy?
We're going to go someplace new.
What about all my other stuff?
We'll get it later.
Hhow long will it take?
Go to your room! Now!
Your father doesn't love us anymore!
What do you mean? Mommy? You're scaring me!
Oh my God, what happened to you? My baby 
I'm ok mommy.
May you find the peace you've sought in vain for so long.
That poor little girl.
Where does this amulet come from?
It's origin is unknown. The symbol does correspond to a dagger I acquired many years ago.
The dagger is used to free those possessed if stabbed directly into the heart, according to ancient beliefs 
By killing them?
By freeing them.
I don't understand.
The knife destroys the evil and saves the soul of the possessed.
What do these ingredients mean?
Pearl, is the twilight, the divinity... Onyx is the sickle, death...
They don't build them like this anymore.
Suppose not.
Town records are coming up now.
What will they tell you?
I'll be able to do a search, to find out who lived here previously. And who died here.
I have to admit you really have a beautiful home.
Thank you. If you told me two years ago we'd be living here, I would never have believed it. Do you live around here?
No, I live about in Wexford. It's about a five hour drive.
How did you meet Dr. Shea?
There were a series of lectures about parapsychology at my university. I went and heard him speak, and became fascinated with the idea of hunting ghosts.
I have to admit I was skeptical. Until now.
So was I. The usual investigation turns up nothing more times than not.
Well, I guess this whole thing was as strange for you as it was for us.
Yes. It was.
It looks delicious...
Why don't you pass me your plate?
Did you find her?!
No!
Are you all right?
A few years older, perhaps.
How's your arm?
It will heal.
I'm sorry.
There's no need to be.
Goodbye.
Goodbye.
I feel something. It's faint, but...it's there...
You say you saw some activity here?
Damn it.
What's the matter?
These records only go back to 1880. But... ...wait a minute...
Did you find something?
I did a cross search, death certificates with this address. James and Marion Foster. They had a daughter. Right here, it says James died, 1882, pneumonia. Marion dies September the next year. Suicide.
It doesn't say. But that's not what interests me. There's no death certificate for the daughter. Anywhere.
What was her name?
Colleen.
So many unanswered questions. Why was she buried there. And who killed her?
It might have been her mother.
We don't have proof of that.
The style of dress on the girl... it coincides with the era Marion Foster killed herself. Who else could have gone in there and done something like that?
 Eddie!!
Over here.
Please.....anyone....help me?
Melissa...?
For the love of God....please...?
Melissa, it's Sara  is that you?
Sara...?
Keep talking, I'll find you!
Something....happened 
 I'm coming 
 something horrible...I don't understand 
But the million bucks each, that's for real?
It better be  he still owes me $25 grand for renting the place for the night! Here, let's get you some illumination so you can make your way safely!
Wish I could take the credit, but 
 guess we know where Mr. Price is now.
He must've beaten us all here!
Of course he did, for God's sake. Didn't he, Mr. Pritchett?
I can't comment until I get paid.
Oh, no.
What's going on?
Don't know that it does.
Well, then, how 'bout maybe we call someone?
Hasn't been a telephone in this House in over 60 years.
Won't do any good.
Why not?
Uh, excuse me? Don't think I'm not having the time of my life watching this train wreck that's your marriage  but this isn't what I had in mind... I want to know that we can get out of here if we need to.
Believe me, we need to.
Pritchett, this "lockdown" thing  it's gotta have like a master control  you know machinery, gears, whatever  somewhere in this place?
The basement  but, believe me, you don't want to go down there.
No, you don't want to go down there. I am going down there. And I'm going to find <u><b>reverse</b></u> on this thing and floor it.
You'll never find it, it's a maze down there.
Well, that leaves you with two options then, doesn't it: either show me where and maybe we get out of here  or it's spendthenightsleeptight.
You should really open this place to the public, Pritchett  a spa for people without enough stress in their lives.
I said we shouldn't come down here. Very treacherous  physical and metaphysical levels, both. There've been no refurbishments to this part of the house  it's exactly as it was in 1931.
Ghosts killed your father?
Not ghosts... at least not what you're thinking... Vannacutt used to dump the bodies of his failed experiments somewhere in the house...
And you think it's in there?
Accumulated evil... festering for decades... But I'm a drunk... so don't listen to me.
There is something very not normal going on here!
This? This is nothing. You've only been dealing with the House itself. You have no idea what you're tinkering with. Sooner or later, the darkness that is at the core will get out... One of you will release it... Not meaning to, of course... then... ...Bye, bye, Miss American Pie...
Pritchett, what is this "core of darkness"?
I thought you understood.... It's the souls of Vannacutt's dead... The insanity... The horror... Victims burned alive... All that pain percolating somewhere in the house for seventysome years... ...singing this will be the day that I die... This will be the day that I....
You coming, or are you waiting for Blackburn?
Blackburn's dead.
Excuse me?
He would have been back by now.
Price!
Oh, dear.
Pritchett: what is going on?
He must've unsealed the room!
How, he's supposed to be dead!
 hey! 
 ten.
Houston, I think we may have a problem.
Evelyn, go stir your cauldron or something for a sec.
Problem where? Looked good to me.
"Dummy 6" keeps losing his arm.
So disengage his Flail Arm Mechanism and just make him a screamer.
 hey! Next time give me a couple seconds notice before you wing a gag like that!
The lockdown thing.
I mean, not that it didn't give Evelyn the kind of coronary I had in mind, just...
 it wasn't me.
Rewind that.
I was just sitting here  it happened. I had nothing to do with it.
Then who did??
No idea. I didn't even know the damn thing still worked!
It works.
Maybe it was just its time to finally fall apart.
No. Somehow  I don't know how  she did it.
Pretty amazing feat: all that shit down the basement and your wife's up in the bedroom the whole time.
Don't take your eyes off her for a second. I think she just declared War.
Yeah. Why's there five checks? There's only four of us.
You're forgetting my lovely wife; she's part of the same winnertakeall as the rest of you.
What're you talking about?
Oh, sorry. Detail I guess I forgot to mention. You die, you lose. Your check gets divviedup by those still amongst the living.
JenniferJenzenExecutiveV.P. ParagonPictures.
Very good. Well, I think I can say with complete honesty: I've never heard of any of you.
This is all maybe getting a little too strange 
 I wouldn't worry, Ms. Jenzen: the unexplainable will probably explain herself before too long. In the meantime, let's all relax, have a drink, the evening's young 
Sorry.
Good way to get your head blown off.
I'll try not to remember to warn Evelyn.
What is it??
Something with the power, I don't know!!
I...don't think...anybody should be touching the body.
I think I'll do what I damn well please.
 the window and door grates 
 no  that's when everything went ragtime  whoever else is in this house has been doing everything since  I thought it was Evelyn 
I was upstairs!
I never saw you 
If you've got a gun on you, Price, I'd hand it over now.
Not just yet. Would any of you be interested in knowing exactly why I ended up here in the basement?
Fascinated.
I was chasing after somebody I saw in the salon.
Well, I don't.
Then just wait  maybe this whoever's got you next on the Asylum's equipment test list. Maybe a literal mindblow inside the "Saturation Chamber."
I'll take my chances.
Well, I can't, sweetheart.
Don't test me, I'm real prepared to use this to stay alive 
 confirming everything we already know 
 I'll take the chance, come morning and cops, I'll be proved right 
 listen to me, goddamnit 
 no more 
Then tell me, please  help me...!
Don't think so. Stay the fuck back.
Please! I need your help.
Not even for a million dollars, Mr. Price.
She's been marked for it. The House does that. Happened to Pritchett's father. Likely happen to you all. Isn't that what you told me, Mr. Pritchett?
I can't remember at the moment.
I'm ready now.
Alright, Mr. Pritchett, let me just sign the damn thing.
 it's getting older by the second. Mr. Price, if I could just please have 
Sorry, Pritchett, here you go.
I think you're gonna miss the bash of a lifetime 
 my loss 
 even if I give you a million as well?
Wouldn't know what to do with it all 
Must be those plates  interfering with the signal somehow.
Not the plates: the House. Why is no one listening to me?? It's alive! And once it's made up its mind, it won't let anything out.
I think...I may have the answer.
What?
I remember...it was a long time ago...my father said: when the House was finally completed, make sure...wechristenit withthisbottleofdirtcheapchampagne thatshouldstillbein a cupboard somewhere!
House 2, Guests 0.
I think, Pritchett, we've got a situation here that even you can't explain away as "ghosts." This is ice cold homicide by person  or persons 
 then I guess then it had to be you. Sorry.
Thank God  I was afraid I'd be lynched without a quorum.
Vannacutt!!
Or somebody wanting me to believe that.
He was right! Pritchett was right!
I am.
Business or pleasure, Mr. Price?
My wife. Where were we?
Your roller coaster that is, quote: "unlike any that has ever come before it."
Absolutely. No cheap thrills. A genuine Journey To The Brink Of Madness.
Ever seen one that starts at the top? 20 stories worth of top?
And then what happens?
I think it's something better experienced then described.
Sources have told this reporter that the real reason your Park's opening has been delayed was a nearfatal accident on one of the rides here. Comment?
I wouldn't be opening this place tomorrow if every single thing down to the beheaded Beanie Babies hadn't tested 100% safe.
First time for everything.
I've designed and built six of these places  take my word for it, everything's fine.
Do something!
Like what?? This isn't supposed to be happening!!
Please! Something! OhGod!
Maybe if I 
I don't know, Ms. Jenzen.
Well, who's the damn thing <u>from</u>?
Messenger just dropped it off. No return address.
You didn't think to ask?
I was in the middle of 
 being utterly fucking useless, what else is new.
You think this is fucking funny??
No, no, it's just 
 well, here's a better one: you're fired.
What?
And here's your goddamn severance!
...wow....WOW! Hey, Ms. Jenzen  ?
Are you still fucking <b>here</b>??
 forget it. Last birthday the Manson Family Ranch, the year before that: Jonestown.
Oh. You think this is a request. Well, think again. I'm telling you: "Haunted Hill" is exactly where we're having my party this year. You'll find the guest list on your desk by the time you get back 
Don't touch me!
I'm impressed: I don't think Evelyn's ever said those words to anything with genitalia.
I'm not laughing, Steven.
You shouldn't be  you were nearly just killed, sweetheart. And now that our birthday girl is finally here, let the games begin!
Haven't they already?
Could we have a word?
Oh, I think we're going to have several.
I gave you a goddamn guest list two pages long  where the hell are they?
Shredded. Sorry. Decided to whip up one of my own: a group so hungry for money that they'd be willing to do anything. I thought you'd be more comfortable with your peers.
I guess it was stupid of me not to expect something this twisted from you. Well, congratufuckinglations, Steven: Round One, you win.
Well, not quite. See, those people down there: they aren't the ones I invited.
Then who are they?
You tell me. I don't know how you managed to hack into my Mac, but: bravo.
What are you talking about? You think I invited them?
Sure know it wasn't me. And if you say it wasn't you  then who the hell did, Evelyn?
It you really loved me, Steven, you'd find a way to drop dead in the next three seconds.
Finding ways for me to die at these things is really your deal, isn't it? The "O.J." knife with the notquite retractable blade? Your "Jim Jones Kool Aid" that was exactly that?
All accidents until proven otherwise.
You know how happy I'd be if that was really true, Evelyn? And how positively goddamn delirious if you weren't fucking every living thing in our area code at the same goddamn time!
Which part of that fantasy turns you on most: me with other men  or just the other men?
You know everything you do gets me hot.
 just not always in the sexual sense.
You're hurting me.
I know.
Now, there's the simple country gal I married. Let's go back down and greet your guests  show them the real you: corny as Kansas on the Fourth of July.
My guests were shredded. It's your sick little scene now, Steven: enjoy. I'm going to go run scalding water on the places you just touched me, and then I'm calling a cab.
 asking the wrong guy  wasn't me who closed it.
Sure it wasn't. Hey, anybody else here make their living with thrills'n'chills for the kiddies? Don't raise your hands all at once.
Huh. And here I had a completely different theory.
Really? Well, let it rip.
Oh, nonono  much more bang for everyone's buck to nail the bitch 
 the sadistic prick 
 in the act.
What are you talking about?
Must be getting old, Stevie  you're repeating yourself  this is the exact same setup you used for the SonOfSam Hunt back in '94. Girlie, open up that casket there and see what you find.
So how's a girl to know if these things are loaded, baby?
Only one way I can think of, Sweetheart.
And where are we off to, Mr. Price? Check the wiring on the animatronic Mummies?
A simple leak, if it's okay with you.
Fine with me. Just somebody then better go and round up Melissa Marr.
Where is she?
Stalking the wild poltergeist.
Game, set and match, Steven. You've outdone yourself. And I know it's not good manners to ask the magician how he did it, but inquiring minds are desperate to know: just what did really happen to Ms. Marr?
Asking the wrong person again.
I mean, did she stage it all for you and then go hide  or did you just flat out kill the little bitch 
 I pose you the same question 
 and who's next on your list?
If I had one, Evelyn, I think you know who'd be first and last 
 oh, for chrissake, that's a given; we all know that knocking me off is the bottom line here 
 that wasn't my original plan, but it is starting to look more attractive 
 thank you! All the cards finally on the goddamn table!
Jesus!
Question answered.
They weren't loaded when I put them in there!
Funky little house, ain't it? Friends, your hostess is now going to retire for what's left of the night. If you need me, I'll be in the bedroom upstairs  but try and fight that need: the door'll be locked, I'll be trying to sleep, and if anyone so much as breathes in the keyhole, I'm gonna empty this thing into their fucking head. Thank you all for the bestest birthday a girl could have.
Steven 
 anything, sweetheart, you need only speak 
 what...are...you...going...to 
 just what you wanted everyone here to believe in the first place: I'm going to murder you, Evelyn, with the greatest of pleasure 
 wit...nesses 
 witnesses to what? You're already dead, Evelyn! Happy Birthday, baby 
No...
No. OhmyGod, Pritchett was right  The house <u><b>IS</b></u> haunted.
Evelyn... Get up... NOW!
Steven??
...Jesus H. Christ.
So where's the party?
I knew this whole place'd be pure gold! Pritchett, point me in the direction of the goddamn ghosts! If I can get something bizarre enough on tape, I think I can parlay it into getting me some kind'a Robert Stack "Unsolved Most WackedOut Home Videos" gig. No more five afternoons a week of sexchange Nazisandthelesbosthatlove'em.
You've got your own TV show?
The guy whose hair I do has his own TV show. All I've got is a blowdryer and a dream.
...birds. Just seagulls or something walking on the glass, goddammit.
Cheer up: before the night's through, I'm sure one of us'll get hacked to pieces by somebody or something.
So, what? The thing with the glass? Price did that?
I hope not.
Melissa Margaret Marr, Celebrity.
Eddie Moses, Communications Attache  which translated from ancient bullshit means: I work for a Messenger service.
Then what the hell are we doing here?
How'd you make your guest list, Price: throw darts at a phone book?
Is she...alright?
I thought she was dead. For sure.
And you're not really as large and useless as you seem.
I'm better than that.
Don't push it.
Three steps forward  I want to get up there.
Why?
This whole place can't be wired to just one circuit 
Thanks.
Most fun I've had all day.
You need to get out more.
What? Deep down inside?
Start with the name you were born with, and we'll work forward from there.
I told you already: Jennifer Jenzen, Executive V.P. of 
I don't think so...
Why not?
Most of my business is making deliveries to high rollers. And I have yet to meet one Executive who could tie their own shoes  let alone rewire an entire house. You don't fit the bill  not even close.
There's always exceptions.
Not in the movie biz. So, c'mon, gimme the truth.
Well, she went somewhere! She didn't just up and disappear into thin air!
No...not air 
How you gonna manage that with a new blowhole in your dome?
Hey, if everybody's gonna kill each other, could you do it in another room? I'm trying to get something accomplished here.
What the hell good is fixing that gonna get us?
An answer, I hope: exactly what  or who  Melissa was taping.
And then where are we?
You hear somebody?
No  keep pulling, it's moving!
We can do it...
Sure, with three days and a blowtorch.
It's a thousand years old  we just need a crowbar or something to get leverage  the sucker'll pop!
No prob: I'll just hop down the hardware store 
 no. The basement  the room with all the controls to this thing: big long iron levers just lying there 
 not a chance  there's too much weirdness down there I don't think even bullets are gonna stop.
You're starting to sound like Pritchett.
I was upstairs with Eddie 
 that's the fact, bud 
 where the hell were you?
 you lose either way, Price 
 listen to the man 
I think we should have taken a right back there.
Back where?
Good point.
Let's try down here...
What are you looking for?
Maybe there are notes or drawings of this place, showing how those plates work.
Cheery looking bunch.
Better living through electricity.
Holy shit! Now we know how the guest list was made up. Look, these names... Head Nurse, RuthAnn Stockard... Bjorn Jensen, Electro Therapy... Jasper Marr, Thomas Steven Price... They're all here!
Wait a minute... What are you saying?
Everyone that was invited is related to one of the staff who was here when the place burned. There are five of us...
Or an online computer.
That's crazy!
What about that other guy?
This is the best we're gonna do.
It'll have to do.
Price!!
He's gotta still be down here.
It's okay, everything's okay now.
He's dead...?
Don't think it's even an issue.
We're safe?
What 
 was that??
The opening's still too small, we'll never get through!
For chrissake give me a hand!
No. It's just trying to frighten us.
It's succeeding!
All the plates sealing the windows and doors  there's got to be some way of raising them manually. They didn't just appear out of thin air  there's got to be pulleys, cables or something, that make them go up and down.
Where did it go?
Run.
What 
You okay?
Yeah. And under other abnormal circumstances, I think this would be the time to seriously jump your bones.
Better put it on hold 'til we find Pritchett.
I don't do groups.
What?
Jesus!
Right here, Mr. Pritchett. As well as five other bona fide, bank drafts for one million dollars each. Made out to cash.
And we get this money when?
The second the sun hits tomorrow morning. Assuming you have stayed the entire night  and you're still alive, of course. Any other questions?
This is nuts.
Yeah. But, hey, anybody who's not "comfortable" with the rules, you're free to walk, anytime. Seven digits poorer, goes without saying.
I'll meet you down there.
Take the gun.
Evelyn, could you just zip it for a moment? It looks like we're stuck here 'til morning  let's make the best of it.
Best of a nightmare.
Married. Once. Same woman. All these years. She just slithered up the stairs.
Prove it.
Prove it how?
Oh, Jesus....
Adrenaline  in your bag, Blackburn, you must have 
 the stained glass 
 yeah, we did that 
 closed.
Pritchett, you're not joining this necktie party?
I wanna know first: to what do I owe this honor? I mean, I never even heard of this guy.
I'm just the Greeter  and in that capacity, I now urge you all strongly to 
'Less the place really is haunted.
Nonsense! Just bad press. All the deaths that occurred inside  my own father's included  all perfectly normal fatal accidents.
You're totally full of shit, aren't you?
You'll never know 'til you walk through that door!
You said that was an accident.
I lied. The House is alive and we're all gonna die.
So, what? You're saying we're stuck here the rest of our lives?
A cleaning crew's supposed to arrive at 9:30 tomorrow morning  I think the power of the house fades at dawn.
 well, let's hear it for small miracles 
 but I imagine we'll all be mutilated beyond recognition by then.
What's in there?
Nothing.
What is it? What's in there?
The Soul of the House. Everything that's corrupt about it... My father trapped it in there just before he died. You see, he purchased the house to restore it... We were going to live here... Nothing can live here. I was just a kid... The first time I saw it, I thought it was beautiful... It was just a dark mist turning into the corner of the room... then it started to move... then death started to happen... First the workers.. six in all... then my father...
So you're saying as long as that door stays locked, we're okay?
Hell NO!! The House will kill ya!
New wrinkle on an old theory for treating schizophrenia. 19th Century, I think: what would drive a sane man mad should make a madman sane. The Vannacutt version was: bombard the patient with aural and visual stimuli far more frightening than any hallucination they could ever produce, it'd traumatize 'em back to "normalcy."
Did it work?
Hey! Where'd you guys go?
Left, goddamnit!
 of this place, goddamnit, Pritchett!
Yes.
What's down there?
The...Fourth of July.
Shit, Pritchett!!!
Price didn't make the guest list... The house did. It wants vengeance.
How's a goddamn building gonna send out invitations?
What's life, anyway? Waves...? Sound...? Light...? Electricity...? I don't know... Phone lines...?
Oh. Jesus.
Poor Mr. Price 
Uhhhh...
What?
Okay  I'll admit it: I'm totally, clinically insane. But I'm still the only one who actually got a check tonight. It's yours  if you just get me the hell out of here now.
Hail Mary, full of grace  the house is growing!
It's not going to let us out!
If you know where it is, get there!
Me? You've gotta be kidding.
Pritchett, is that you?
Up here 
Pritchett!
Over here!
Nice touch, Pritchett: subtle.
As a tumor.
This thing's going nowhere.
If this is someone's idea of a joke 
Put it this way: if it's your face on that tape, Mr. Moses, we're one gunshot away from solving all our problems 
 fuck you!
Yeah, what the hell, I'll go.
Yeah, me too.
 I did: down here.
And I think that's case 
Shouldn't somebody like, stand guard or something  just in case?
I'll stay, if it'll ease your mind.
You sure? You'll be alright by yourself?
What are you playing here, Price?
A very, very scary game. But then look at the bright side: if there's only one of you still upright at dawn, you'll be leaving here with five million dollars in your pocket.
Just for the record: what are the rest of your names?
Donald W. Blackburn, M.D.
You're not my list.
I got an engraved  literally  invitation  with my name 
 I'm sure you did.
There must be some other way out.
Well, until that's found, I think it's a good idea we all stick together. Or wouldn't that fit into your plans, baby?
Melissa!
Ms. Marr!
What?
Is she alright?
Even if I were inclined, I've had better  and a lot safer  opportunities to kill off a wife.
Three times, to be exact.
Excuse me?
Accidents. Fatal. Each of your prior wives, so we've been informed.
Can't imagine by who. I don't suppose the truth would interest you: that I've never had another wife but Evelyn.
Where is it??
I don't know!!
I'm sorry 
 she's not dead! Just have to get her heart pumping aqain!
Upstairs, too. Come with me, I'll show you another body, a friend of mine named Schecter 
 what was he doing here?
Running all the bells and whistles we set up to scare hell out of everybody 
Oh, really: who?
Didn't catch his or her name, just followed them down here. Somebody all in white surgical gown.
If there really is someone else in this house, I think the four of us can handle the situation.
I think one of you has been part and parcel of making this situation!
Looks like we're it.
More to the point. Where's our host?
Oh, for chrissake 
 uh, excuse me, just one quick question? How long before this damn thing unseals itself?
Something just must've...frightened her, that's all.
Yeah...something.
More the merrier.
No. I'm going back to try and find Ms. Marr. If she's hurt, I'll tend to her. Dead, then I'm coming back for him.
Now what do we do? We've got to hold him somewhere 'til the police 
 the "Saturation Chamber." Where he wanted to put me.
Don't think it'll be a problem.
C'mon.
If you don't mind me asking... Who are you?
Name's Pritchett. Watson Pritchett. I own the house, my father built it. And now I just need to get you into it. So...
More of Price's spookhouse bullshit.
Not at all!
Part of the original structure. When it was still an asylum. Guy who ran the place  Dr. Vannacutt  found it "inspirational." From some German cathedral a million years ago: "Driving the Demons From the Mind."
I'm moved beyond words.
Mr. Price? Mrs. Price? Somebody? Hello??
Pritchett, take it down a couple hundred decibels, what is your problem?
Problem? No problem  just want to get my money and get on home  you know, things to see, people to do?
Why in God's name wasn't this thing removed years ago??
It was on my Dad's list of "things to do." But the House did him first.
Jesus H. Christ!
Oh dear.
If you don't calm the hell down I'm gonna strap you in for electroshock!
Take a bow, Steven, you've outdone yourself tonight  scared holy hell out of even me.
If that's the fact, Price, okay, you've had your fun  now open the goddamn 
We'd've been splitsville years ago, with me the richest single woman in recorded history  but Steven doesn't "believe" in divorce.
Not too big on it myself  but then again, not on marriage either.
Oh, he's got no problem with that: I'm his fourth.
I'm confused.
No need for divorce and that messy divisionofassets thing when they kick before you do.
Easy. You've got to keep still for a bit, the last thing we need is a coronary.
You're the Doctor, sweetheart. 'Guess the atropine worked, then.
Convinced all those that needed convincing: you're an official dead lady.
And what's Steven's status?
Still alive, but it's just a matter of time. And then will come your miraculous resurrection 
 "oh, no, Officer, I'm very much alive  just a joke to beat my husband at his own clever game  What? What do you mean he's dead? It's all my fault, I may as well have killed him myself!"
"But you didn't, Ma'am. We have all these witnesses that saw..." well, whoever it ends up being that finally shoots him 
 the James Dean wannabe with the hair trigger 
 or might turn out to be  very big surprise  that Jenzen girl. The little bitch has the right stuff. She nearly put a bullet in Price right after your "demise."
So what stopped her?
It's complicated. But don't worry 
 there's already been way too many complications for a very simple plan. You ever find out what happened to Melissa Marr?
Not yet.
So we don't even know if she's alive or dead 
 Price killed her, there's no other explanation 
 there's plenty: for all we know, Steven's got her spying on us right now 
 bullshit 
 the whole thing is falling apart!
It's not, baby. Just a matter of minutes now, before somebody pulls the trigger 
 but nobody has yet, Donald. They just haven't been brought to that breaking point. They have to believe proofpositive that their lives are in danger.
How much more do they need than your death at his hands?
But they didn't see it happen, they still have doubts. What we need is another body, and Steven's bloody hands right next to it!
And how the hell are we going to do that?
Okay: this may sound crazy, but 
Moses, Moses Seradungu.
Can I help you?
I'm looking for Moses Seradungu's room.
What is his room number?
I don't know.
Go downstairs, I will help you.
For food and clothes, and all that grows, etc, etc. Dear Lord, thank you.
Thank you, Roger.
Why the hurry, Roger?
Simon has a new pet. Can I go see it?
No, I don't want you going on the street.
Please, papa, I have a secret path.
Who is this Simon?
There are soldiers.
Where?
On the street.
Paul. Are you alright?
We have a big problem. The Hutu army have come and ordered us all of us out of the hotel.
Out? Where are you going?
I do not know, sir. I think they will kill us all.
All. What do you mean all?
The staff, the guests.
The staff and guests! How many?
Now we have eight hundred guests and one hundred staff. I have ten minutes left.
Paul, are you there?
Yes, thank you Mr. President.
Paul, if you have one call in all the world to stop this, who would you call?
The French. They supply the Rwandan army.
Paul, do everything you can to buy time. I will call you back.
Rutaganda's place?
What's wrong?
Beg your pardon sir, you are Hutu. You are safe there.
You are with me, Zozo, don't worry.
What is it like to fly on a plane, sir?
It depends where you sit Zozo. In coach it is like the bus to Giterama.
That is why they call it coach?
Maybe. But in business class there are fine wines, linens, Belgian chocolates.
You have taken business class?
Many times.
Sit up, smile, Zozo, don't attract attention to yourself.
Boss, some of those men are my neighbors, they know I'm Tutsi.
Twelve are dead.
How dead?
Where are the receptionists? Where's Gregoire?
He has taken the presidential suite.
What! Paul storms off.
Where's housekeeping? They won't pick up.
Sir, no one wants to work. They say the boss has left.
What do we do with all these people?
Open up the ballroom, we'll put them there. And Zozo tell the kitchen to make rice and beans  a lot of it.
What are you doing?
The lieutenant wants the register.
Where has all our beer gone?
Sir, Gregoire has been taking beers.
How much beer?
Many beers.
You are my family now, Zozo, my brother. I will get you out of here.
Thank you, sir.
Let us remember this night and tell the world that even in hell there are good people.
I saw Gregoire make a call, sir?
When?
As the trucks go.
What is this about no water?
It's true, sir, the water has been turned off.
Can I have your name again?
Paul Rusesabagina, Mr. Godefroid. The house manager. I met you on your last visit.
Yes, Paul, I remember. The Mille Collines is a very important property for Sabena. Our directors believe we should close down, shutter the place until this unrest is over?
Very well. But if this thing gets worse, we must close. If there's anything you need, call anytime.
There is one thing I need right away.
I managed to get the President of France on the phone.
Thank you, sir, you saved our lives.
Paul, I pleaded with the president to go in and get you all. He told me it will not happen.
Why?
I can give you many political answers Paul but the truth is that Africa is not worth a single vote to all of them: French, British, Americans.
Good evening, Odette, who is sick this time?
I asked Odette to take a look at little Anais. She has a rash.
Your brother's here?
Yes, with Fedens and the children.
Thomas wants advice?
He wants your wisdom.
Let's have dinner first.
Of course.
Simon, next door, the Charingas' boy.
Homework?
Do something.
What?
Call your friends in the army. Call someone. Victor is harmless. This is a mistake.
Please, be quiet.
No.
We must do something.
Why didn't you call your contacts in the army?
I couldn't help.
You could have asked for a favor.
No, I could not. What do you know about favors Tatiana, about barter and deals?
Victor was not a stranger, he was our neighbor.
He was not family. Family is all that matters. Do you think if you or I were being dragged from here, any one of them would lift a finger to help us?
They do not have your connections.
Connections? I have no connections, only favors. If I call to help Victor, a General will think "Paul Rusesabagina is a fool. He thinks my favors are so numerous and so insignificant as to waste them on everybody." Then my hard work is doubly squandered. I insult the General and I do not get to use my favor at all. Please leave these things to my good judgment.
Paul! Paul's eyes adjust, he recognizes many of his neighbors, all crowded into this small room. Then he sees their friends Odette and her husband Jean Baptiste.
Jean Baptiste!
The president has been murdered.
Murdered! By whom?
Where are Thomas and Fedens?
I sent them home. Go and call them.
I tried already. The phones do not work.
Is every Tutsi in the neighborhood here?
They came through the bushes, over the wall. What could I do?
Send them home. We are not the police. What do we have to protect them?
Please. Let them stay 'til morning. The militia will not come here, they know you are a Hutu with influence.
They know you are Tutsi!
Please, Paul, 'til first light.
Dawn. Then they go.
Oh, my God!
Where are you hurt, son?
What is it, Paul.
Stay with the children.
Paul, don't let them die.
Get in.
Them. They almost got us all killed. I have done enough for them! We cannot look after them anymore.
What are you going to do? You cannot drive them out onto the road. They can stay with me.
What!
I will not have them on my conscience. They will stay in my room.
Zozo, get a key for two staff bedrooms. Put these people in them.
This won't do.
It will do just fine.
Any luck?
No answer. Please send someone to get them, please.
I'll try.
Has Roger spoken yet?
No, Odette says he's in shock.
How can we help him.
He needs to be in a safe place. Have you heard from Mr. Garindi?
Give him time.
This is not bad news, Tatsi. Perhaps they fled or could not make it home. There is hope.
Please go back, bring the children to us.
My sister is dead, Paul. They would not leave the children.
No. They are not dead. Stop this.
They are being evacuated.
What about us?
We have been abandoned.
Listen to me woman. I said all the whites are leaving. The French, the Italians, even the Belgian UN soldiers.
But who is left?
I don't know. Colonel Oliver says the UN has three hundred soldiers for the whole country. Black soldiers, Pakistanis.
You could leave, Paul.
What are you saying, Tatsi?
Your card says Hutu. Take our children, go and get the twins, pay money at the roadblocks. Get them out. Please.
Enough of this. We stay together. Let me rest, I will feel better then.
Go to the roof now.
What for Paul.
Do as I say. I will be there soon.
Lynch Bages, 84. Perfect with lamb, or fine rare beef.
So where is the lamb?
Maybe Gregoire and the witch ate it.
What's the matter?
We're running out of beer and other supplies.
I have to go out to get food.
Go out! Where?
To Rutagunda's place. It is close by.
No, no.
I have to, Tatiana, we are only as valuable as the service we provide.
You cannot go alone.
I'm not going alone. I'll take Gregoire with me. He's a good Hutu, and he wants to impress me now.
Please, Paul, why do we have to go to the roof?
It's alright. This is the only place I can find some peace.
I hear we must pay for everything. How much for this?
A kiss.
I have a confession. When we met...
In Ruhengeri?
Yes, when you worked as the nurse.
Yes.
I had you transferred to Kigali.
What?
I bribed the Minister of Health to have you transferred to Kigali.
Why?
To be closer. So that I could marry you.
What was the bribe? What am I worth to you?
It was substantial.
Tell me what it was.
A car.
What sort of car?
What does it matter.
I want to know.
A Volkswagen.
A Volkswagen!
I will not leave without the twins.
We have to get out of here Tatiana.
Please, please try one more time.
I'll try but we have to leave, with or without them. I want you to promise.
A little longer, Paul?
We wait until 7:00. If he is not here with the twins he is not coming. We leave. That was your promise. Go help the children.
Ask them to wait a little longer. For the twins.
Get on the truck, Tatiana.
No.
I have to stay.
No! Sit down now.
I cannot leave these people. I will wait for the twins.
Let me go. Children get off.
I will follow on the next plane. Go.
I love you. Keep the children safe.
Paul! Then another voice.
We are almost out of water.
We are almost out of everything.
We have to have a plan.
What sort of plan?
Our children cannot see us die first. If the Militia comes, you must hurry up to the roof. I will meet you there.
Please do not talk like this.
We have to. If I do not come, you must take them all by the hands and jump.
The Diplomat! Tatiana wakens, startled.
What's wrong?
I have to go to the Diplomat.
Oh, my babies.
Anais, it is so good to see you.
I will need a suite.
Of course.
I'm afraid you will have to move room.
Move? Where to?
I'm going to put you on the third floor.
The third floor are low class rooms.
Yes they are. However if the army return they will expect important people such as yourself to be in these grand rooms.
Pack the bags, we have to move.
Also, this is your bill for the last week.
This time the Militia will kill us.
They will surely kill us here. It's over here. We have to take the chance.
They should go one truck at a time. When the first truck gets through to the airport, then the others will follow.
We can't wait. We all go together or not at all.
Terrible times, Paul. There are bodies everywhere. I cannot stay here.
I need a great favor.
I need you to go to this address and bring my brotherinlaw and his family.
No, no. This is a very dangerous part of town. I cannot do this.
This would be an enormous favor to me. I am a man of means, Mr. Garandi. When this nonsense is over I will be most grateful.
I will see what I can do.
Was there blood?
No blood. As I left a neighbor, an old woman, waved to me. I went to her house. She has the little girls. They are safe.
It is dangerous to be here. The radio says this is a nest of cockroaches.
I need one last favor. Go back and get the twins.
No, it is impossible. That side of town has been destroyed in the fighting. The children are dead.
How do you know?
Everyone is dead there. The dogs eat the bodies in the street. I have to go.
I will give you my house.
What do you want?
We are to meet Mr. Rutagunda.
The commander is not here.
He will be here.
Show me your ID
Excuse me.
What?
Our cards, please.
What cards?
You have our cards.
No. But I make cards. Would you like me to make you two cards?
How much?
One thousand francs.
Show us the manager. He wears a suit.
They have him in the lobby, go quickly.
You are the manager?
Yes, sir. What is wrong?
Everyone must leave the hotel now.
Why sir?
It's an order. Get everyone out now.
I...ah...need some time. Please give us twenty, thirty minutes. People are sleeping.
Anderson, Arthurs, Boulier. What is this?
The guest list. It hasn't been updated since the murder of the president.
Are you trying to make a fool of me? There are no Europeans left in that hotel. Get me the names of all the cockroaches in there.
That will take time.
You don't have time. If I do not have the names, so that I can pick out the traitors, then I will kill everyone here in this car park. Get in there now.
Who did you call?
Call, sir?
Don't lie to me. What's your name?
Rusesabagina. Paul Rusesabagina.
I will remember that name. Let's go.
Paul, how the hell are ya'?
I am delighted to see you, Mr. Daglish.
They moved you from the Diplomat?
Promoted. House Manager.
Good for you. We're having a little trouble, Paul. We booked five rooms, but...
Did you bring any of those wee girls who used to sit at the bar in the Diplomat with you? You know?
I'm sorry, Mr. Daglish, this is the Mille Collines. No working girls here.
Can we phone them in, Paul?
I'm afraid I can't do that, Mr. Daglish.
Perfect timing.
This goes out live?
Give her what she wants, room, food, anything. Charge it all. Don't you put her out, Paul.
I would never do that.
I know that, Paul. I'm sorry.
This is a Rolex, I can't take it.
Take it for Christ sake. I wish it was a fucking aeroplane.
There are no more rooms.
Give me the phone.
Mr. Manager.
Gregoire, what are you doing here?
Get out of this room and get back to work.
I don't have to listen to you anymore.
I am in charge now. Get back to work or I'll fire you.
Let me ask you Mr. Manager, do you notice a smell of cockroaches? If I were to leave this room, I'm sure I could find this smell. I know people who could cleanse it. But maybe it doesn't bother you? Why is that? Are used to this smell? Not me, I need a clean room to escape it.
Gregoire it is good to see you back to work.
Please, except my humblest apologies...
Don't worry. I have a job this morning. I must go to visit my good friend George Rutagunda. You know George?
Where are we going, sir?
For supplies, you drive.
The fog is too heavy, sir.
Just drive, Gregoire.
Are you sure this is the river road?
I saw the sign.
Great, I really need a shower.
Just give me a moment to get your keys.
The fifth room is your broadcast room.
Good. I'd like to book a massage.
Of course.
The news room has heard that the French and the Belgians are putting together an intervention force.
When will they be here?
Very soon.
Thank God.
For fuck's sake, Gloria There's a big news story out there! We need to get out and cover it.
Were not going outside the hotel grounds unless we have an armored car. That's the ground rules.
Ground rules! Where the fuck do you think you are, Wimbledon?
We cover the story from here until we can get proper protection.
Satellite feed.
Great. No kidding, When will they be here? Excellent. Yes, call then.
Holy shit! Holy shit.
What is it?
You fucking see that!
Oh my God!
Here, have a sandwich.
Fuck you.
Lets go, Jock.
Go! What the fuck sort of journalists are we, running from a war? I'm ashamed. Are you? Well, are ya'?
Youre drunk.
I will try my best George but these days I have no time for rallies or politics.
Politics is power, Paul. And money.
Time is money, George. We need extra beer today.
Business is good at the hotel?
Very good.
I am always glad to see you Paul.
A bargain buy, from China. Ten cents each, I'll get a dollar.
At least.
Everything is double the price now, you do understand that?
I need rice, beans, beer, and your best whiskey.
Beer yes, but no whiskey.
You have no whiskey?
No whiskey, no spirits. Your rich cockroaches at the hotel, they will have to do without their scotch. Anyway, I have bled that cow enough Paul.
What do you mean George?
Their money is no good to them. Soon all the Ineysi will be dead.
) You cannot kill them all.
Why not? We are half way there already.
Let's go.
Take the river road back. It is clear.
Paul, this scotch is exceptional.
It's a single malt, Glenmorangie. I thought you'd like it. Anything you need, gentlemen, let me know.
Oh, Paul, talk to the coat check, please.
I'm sorry it is not Glenmorangie.
As long as it is scotch. Your white friends have abandoned you, Paul.
The United Nations are still here.
The United Nations. Madmen are on the streets, Paul. But I will take care of you. Your cellar is wellstocked, right?
Yes, General. I am glad you came by. I overheard something that I think you should know about.
What did you overhear?
A discussion between an American Embassy official and a UN Colonel.
What did they say?
The American assured the colonel that they would watch everything.
Watch everything? How? They are gone.
Satellites.
Satellites?
Yes, they can photograph the epaulets on your shoulder.
And what will they do with these satellites?
The American said intervention is too costly, better to get photographic evidence and snatch up the high command.
The high command? Our high command?
'Snatch them up and put on a war crimes trial. Lock them all away forever. No political risk, and big publicity.' That's what he said. I thought I'd better tell you.
The Americans! Who are they to put us on trial. Let us imagine Paul when their president Kennedy was shot, they said it was a black man. Then their politicians, their radio stations gave orders we must wipe out these black people before they wipe out us. What do you think would have happened? No different.
Indeed, general. Excuse me momentarily.
I am worried about thieves and criminals coming into the hotel. Perhaps you could arrange for some police to guard us.
The police are very busy.
I understand General, but when I last talked to the president of Sabena he promised me that anyone who helped protect Belgian property would be rewarded.
He did.
Well rewarded Those were his words.
If I were to spare a few policemen, where would I station them?
The front gate would be best, General.
I will see what I can do.
I admire you, General. How do you keep command of your men amidst such madness?
I am strong, Paul, like a lion.
I wish I were like you. Look at my staff, they won't work, they listen to no one.
Please, General, I will give you money, whiskey.
You said you had no whiskey.
Please, I have money. They're driving into an ambush, it's on the radio.
Where are my supplies?
I'm sorry, General. The cellar is empty.
You have cockroaches dancing on tables and you tell me the cellar is empty? Did they drink my whiskey?
No. We have no way of finding other stock but I have money for you from the guests.
General, sir. I am glad to find you. I have found you some supplies.
Whiskey?
The finest, and cognac, champagne. Come and I will get them for you.
I'll be over.
Bring back your policemen...
We must go to the Diplomat.
Get in.
Your police are at the gate?
After the Diplomat! Paul clambers in the back.
Where are they going?
They can go where they want. They are in charge now.
What do you mean, General?
We have decided to move the government to Gitarama.
When?
Today.
You know what the Scottish call it?
No.
Ishca Baha  the water of life. I went on a tour once of the finest single malt distillery in the world. Have you ever been to Scotland?
No, sir.
Wonderful country, wonderful golf. I wonder  will I ever go back? What do you think?
I hope we all get to do many things. Can we go now?
Pack those carefully, put them in my jeep, and guard them.
Please, General, call and put your policemen back at the gate.
I am going to do you a great favor. I am going to take you with us to Gitarama.
I do not want to go to Gitarama, General.
You cannot go back to the hotel. The crazy men are going there now. Better to come with me.
We are better here.
Listen, you need me.
You are a marked man.
How so.
The Americans, and the UN they have you as a war criminal. You are on a list.
I am on a list! What list?
When the Europeans left, their soldiers gathered lists.
You lie.
If you do not help me, you will stay on that list.
I committed no war crimes.
Who will tell them? You need me to tell how you helped the hotel. The others who have gone, they blame you for all their misfortune. They say you led the massacres.
I led no massacres.
You think they will believe you?
You will tell them the truth.
I will do nothing unless you help me now.
Paul, you know who this is?
Yes, Colonel Monsieur Xavier, the Minister of Finance.
Get him a room, but tell no one he is here. Paul will look after you.
Paul, I've sent my soldiers to rescue the Lady Prime Minister, she'll need a room.
Yes sir, but these people they cannot stay here. I've heard you have a refugee center at the airport Stadium?
I'm sorry, I can't possibly take them Paul. I'm overrun with refugees. As soon as we can stabilize the situation we'll take them.
Hold the line here. Do not shoot! The Colonel stabilizes the situation, his men watch the militia drive by. Paul approaches Oliver
What's happening?
They murdered my soldiers. Ten Belgians who I sent to get the lady minister.
Where is she?
Anything. Strong.
Canadian Club?
Congratulations, Colonel. You have saved us all.
Congratulations. You should spit in my face.
Excuse me, Colonel.
We think you are dirt, less than dirt, worthless.
I don't understand.
Don't bullshit me, Paul. You're the smartest man here. You have them all eating out of your hand. You'd own this fucking hotel, except for one thing.
You're fucking black! You're not even a nigger, you're African! They're not staying to stop this thing. They're gonna fly right out of here with their people.
Their people?
They're only taking the whites.
They fired a rocket at us.
Yes. Where are the Rwandan police?
I ran out of bribes. Bizimungu took them away.
That explains it. I'm sorry to tell you this but we've heard rumors the Militia are getting ready to storm the hotel.
Will you protect us.
I can't, I don't have the men.
What is it?
The rebels have fought their way into the city. They have many Hutu prisoners.
Paul, I need you to buy me a day or two. I don't have the fuel for this convoy. I will have to scrounge it.
I can't. I have nothing left to bribe with. Can your men at the gate hold out for another day?
No, Paul, they're afraid. They've demanded to be moved back to headquarters now.
Give me their uniforms. I will put people at the gate, in disguise.
I wish I could, Paul. Try to hold out.
Do we know who fired the missile that killed the president?
No. But I fear it's intention may have been to kill the peace accords and spark a civil war between the Hutu Militia and the Tutsi rebels.
We've heard reports of reprisal killings. Will the UN intervene to stop the bloodshed.?
Unfortunately we're here as peacekeepers not peace makers, we can't take an aggressive role.
If the UN changes your mandate could you stop the bloodshed?
Yes. With some reinforcements I'm confident we could impose order.
Have you requested reenforcements?
Yes we have.
What was the response?
We're awaiting a decision, excuse me.
Who are you?
I am Paul Rusesabagina, a good friend of General Bizimungu.
We are looking for you.
What is this about?
Let me see your identity card.
You heard the Tutsi cockroaches murdered our president.
Yes, it is a calamity for us all.
You work at the Hotel Diplomat?
No. I work at the Mille Collines.
I used to work at the Diplomat.
Do you know how to open the safe there? Our government needs to use the hotel and the room keys are in the safe. You must open it.
Of course.
Captain, I must take my family. It is not safe here.
Where is your family?
They are all Tutsi cockroaches.
Let me explain.
Please, I don't use guns.
There is nothing to it.
You want to pay me?
Why not? These are not rebels, look at them. Soon they will be worthless to you. Why not take some money, for your work?
How much?
Name a price.
Ten thousand francs for each one.
I don't have that much.
Here, here, a thousand US dollars  fifty thousand francs for my family. To let us drive off to the Mille Collines.
How many in your family?
Six.
Ten.
And four children?
I'll give you a hundred thousand francs for all of them.
Give me it.
I don't have it here. At the Mille Collines. I can get it for you.
You will run into the hotel and hide behind the U.N.
I swear, Captain, one hundred thousand francs, enough for a house. I will get the money, you keep them outside.
Don't be foolish. There's more money to be made here.
You want to buy anymore cockroaches ask for Captain Naramunju.
Paul!
Gregoire will deal with it, excuse me.
Gregoire, there are no cockroaches in this hotel, do you understand?
Cockroaches?
No, Bik, it's a code word for Tutsis.
That's what I came to talk to you about.
Excuse me?
The HutuTutsi thing. The BBC faxed to say they would be here on the sixth for the peace accords. And the U.N. wants the banquet room for that day, a reception to broadcast the signing ceremony. Can you organize monitors and check the satellite dish?
Leave it to me.
Also, could you remember to use the service entrance at all times?
Of course.
Paul... ...I have to talk to you.
I'll be back.
Paul, Paul, a moment please.
Yes, Benedict, what can I do?
Can you get me into the Ambassador's reception?
I'm sorry, it's a private function.
What happened?
They're killing everyone. The Lady Minister! The UN soldiers. They're at the gate.
Paul, we would like to speak to you in your office.
We, who is we?
A delegation.
You dumb fuckwad cop, you fucked up <u>bad</u>!
Do you think I'm going to let you <u>murder</u> someone?!
<u>You want a blowtorch on your daughter's</u> <u>pretty face</u>?!
I'll go in that fuckin' house right now! I'll give those disks to the <u>real</u> FBI, you COCKSUCKINGMOTHERFUCKER!! And I've got <u>Smith</u>! <u>I've got Smith</u>!!
I guess we each have something the other wants.
I guess we do.
My people are good to go. You know who I mean?
Your phony FBI assholes.
We're almost home, you and me. Keep your shit together. This isn't L.A.
What do you mean by that?
You don't want another dead child on your conscience.
Where's your gun?
I'm the Chief. I don't carry it.
Who are you?
Follow the Mustang. We won't go far.
Don't just fuckin' sit there, dumbass. Do you understand?
What do you want?
These guys are going to take hold of you. Don't freak out. It's for your own good.
Can we let go? You past your shock and all that, we can turn you loose and you won't do something stupid?
You can let go.
Marlon and Al....
We want them. You will not let anyone go into that houseor anything come out until my people recover these disks.
I can't control what happens. The Sheriffs are running the scene.
You will reassume command. In two hours, a group of my people will arrive at York Estates. You will tell the Sheriffs that they are an FBI tactical team.
When this phone rings, you answer. It will be me. I'll tell you what to do. When I have what I want, you get your family.
You want . . . Marlon and Al.
I have people in York Estates right under your nose. If you do <u>anything</u> except what I'm telling you, you'll get Jane and Amanda back in the mail. We clear on that?
These disks . . . where are they?
Smith will know.
Where are my children?
They're still in the house.
I don't know what you're talking about.
He's going to kill you. Don't you know that? He can't take the chance that you'll talk.
Did you find the disks?
Yes.
Then you have everything. You can put them away.
A man has my family. Gold watch here. Dark tan.
That would be Glen Howell. He was on his way for the disks.
How do I reach him?
This is Chief Talley. Tell me your name, son.
Thomas Smith. I'm in the house that's on TV. Dennis hit my dad and now he won't wake up. You gotta help him.
Slow down, Thomas. Take it easy and talk to me. Was your father shot?
Dennis hit him. His head's all big and he won't wake up. I'm really scared.
How about you and your sister?
We're okay.
Where are you right now?
In my room.
That's on the second floor. Could you climb out your window if we were downstairs to catch you?
They nailed the windows. I can't get'm open.
I've got the boy on the phone. He's using a cell phone. What was that, son? I didn't hear you.
If I try to climb out they'll see me on the security cameras. They would see you outside, too 
Is my daddy okay?
The doctors are taking care of him right now. Thomas . . . are you safe? Can you talk?
I think so.
I need your help with something. But if you think those guys could catch you, then I don't want you to do it, okay?
Okay.
I'm serious, Thomas; I don't want you to get hurt.
What do you want me to do?
Your dad has two computer disks. They have funny names: Marlon and Al.
He has lots of disks.
I think he was working on them today, so they're probably in his office. Could you find them and see who they belong to?
Dennis won't let me go to the desk. He makes me sit on the floor.
But I might be able to sneak into the office if they're not around. Then I could open the disks here in my room.
I thought they locked you in your room.
I can get into the crawlspace from my closet and climb all over the house.
Can you get into the office?
I can get into the den. The office is right across the hall.
If I get Rooney into the back of the house, can you find the disks without being caught?
Yes, sir.
Can you open them?
I opened Marlon. I think it's somebody's taxes.
Look for names. Does it say whose taxes they are?
I don't see any people names. It's all businesses.
Try Al. See if you can open Al.
Yeah! Here's a name. This is somebody's personal tax 
Who is it?
Charles G. Benza. They're coming!
Are the disks still in your room?
No! They're right here 
Okay, here's mine. My name is Special Agent Jones.
Are all of you named Jones?
Don't be funny, Chief. You can't afford it.
In a few minutes the white phone is going to ring. So let's get our shit straight before that happens.
You used to be a cop. All of you used to be cops. I can tell by the way you move.
Don't worry about what we used to be.
How do you people expect this to work? The Sheriffs have a Crisis Response Team here.
What's my name?
What?
I asked you my name. You just saw my commission slip. What's my fucking name?
Special Agent Jones.
Think of me that way and you won't fuck up. I'll handle the Sheriffs.
What are you people going to do?
You and I are gonna straighten this out with the Sheriffs, and then we'll wait for the man to call. When he gives the word, we move.
What does he have on you? I know why I'm doing this, but what does he have on you?
We've got to get those kids out of there!
Not until the man calls.
Those kids are in there with a fucking psychopath! He <u>kills</u> people!
They've been in there all day.
The kids are in here!
Where's the office?
Help me, goddamnit, we can get the disks later!
We're out two minutes, me and Dreyer.
Mike found a red pickup abandoned on Flanders. You see it?
It's right in front of us.
Run a DMV on the plate for the owner's name.
Chief, Mikkelson.
Go, Mickey.
The truck is registered to Dennis James Rooney, white male, twentytwo. He has an Agua Dulce address.
Contact the landlord. I want to know employment, friends, family, anything we can find out about this guy.
It's mine. Talley.
Chief, it's Mikkelson.
Go, Mickey.
Mickey? Call the state Homicide Bureau. Don't touch anything, just sit back and wait.
Yes, sir.
I'm Talley. Who's in charge?
Laura Martin. This is Will Maddox, the primary negotiator 
Do it.
Don't crowd the house. The alpha's a kid named Rooney. He's amped up and volatile.
Sounds like you know the job.
I've done it once or twice. I blocked their phones to incoming calls, so you'll have to cut in a hard line to talk to him.
Maddox! You got that?
Then get your men off the wall! You breach that house, we're gonna have a bloodbath! I <u>know</u> this guy, Captain  I can talk to him.
Order your men to stand down.
He says he has gasoline set to burn the place.
Jesus. He must've siphoned it from the cars.
If you go in, you can't use tear gas or flashbangs. The whole place would go up.
Looks like you're bailing out at the right time.
That's why you get the big bucks, Captain.
He says that his father's hurt.
If we have a man dying in there, we'll have to go in.
They have security cameras. Rooney would see you coming.
Did the boy say that any of them are in immediate danger?
No. He said that his father's unconscious; he didn't say he was dying.
Then I think we should wait. Do you agree?
You want me to stick around, I could 
You've been here all day, Chief. Take a break. See your family. If I need you, I'll call.
Excuse me? <u>You</u> requested our help. You turned over command 
And now I'm taking it back. We're getting Smith out of the house.
I want to know what in hell you're doing.
I'm looking for you. I need your tactical unit.
I'm not stupid! You can't get out of here fast enough, then you take back command; you agree to wait on Smith, then you risk everything in a stupid stunt to get him out 
Don't question me, Captain! This is <u>my</u> crime scene!
 then when you get him, you damn near assault the man in the ambulance! <u>What</u> <u>is going on</u>?
Let it go, Captain.
Goddamned small town bullshit.
One at a time! Clear the air! Louise? Talk to me. What do we have?
Junior Kim was DOA at the hospital.
Chief? Mike said a young girl answered the door.
Did he say if she was shooting at him?
He didn't say.
Then we don't know if she's part of this or not. Mickey, you up?
I pulled Mickey and Dreyer off the minimart.
Jesus Christ, Louise, we can't leave a crime scene like that. Put a unit out there.
We only have eight officers on duty, Chief.
Louise?
Go, Chief.
Get a phone number for the Smiths.
Louise?
Go, Chief.
Call Jane for me. She's at the little Thai place.
I know the one.
Tell her I'm almost home.
Chief, base.
Go.
I couldn't find Jane. She wasn't at the restaurant.
You have her cell number?
She didn't answer.
They might be at the house. Keep trying and let me know. I'm going to be here a little while longer.
Did you find Jane and Mandy?
Could you call me back on your phone? Right away.
What's wrong with the radio?
Other people can hear us. Just call. <u>Please</u>.
Stand by.
What are you talking about, shot? What happened?
Three white males shot Junior. Mike followed them to York Estates 
Where are they?
York Estates. Fourfivefive Castle Way. Anders and Jorgenson are on the way.
That's not enough.
What's that, Chief? Say again.
Get everyone out here. Then call the Sheriffs. Tell them we have a possible hostage situation.
Is something wrong with Jane?
We have a boy on the line. He says he's Thomas Smith and he's calling from the house.
It's a crank, Louise. C'mon, don't waste my time with that!
His cell number belongs to the Smiths. I think it's real, Chief. I think this boy is inside that house.
I'm the chief of police here. I have to talk to him.
Ain't gonna happen. We've got unequal pupilation. He could have an intracranial hematoma or a fracture or both.
Smith! Wake up!
What are you doing?! Stop that!
I'm not going to wake him. I don't even know that I can.
Just one question. Please.
He. Can't. Answer.
I'm Jeff Talley, the Bristo chief of police. So far as we know, your children are okay.
Chief Talley is the one who got you out.
I need to talk to him. Alone.
That's enough.
Another minute. Please 
Are civilians inside?
He said something about a girl 
Holster your guns!
We have to cordon off the streets, then evacuate these houses.
What are we going to do about Mike?
Keep your head down.
What's going on?
Get in the car. <u>Now</u>.
Please get away from me.
Mars? What are you doing?
You gotta pee?
I don't see why you can't just lock me in. It's not like I can go anywhere.
Either I'm going to tie you or Mars will tie you. Which do you want?
Thanks for the shirt.
Whatever.
Kevin, my father needs a doctor.
He's just knocked out. I've been knocked out.
If my father dies they'll charge you with his murder. Can't you make Dennis see that?
What do you want?
Keep your voice down. I'm taking you and your brother out of here.
What happened?
Do you want to go or not? I'm offering you a way out of here.
I can't go without Thomas.
All three of us will go, but we have to move fast. Mars and Dennis don't know I'm doing this.
How can we get out?
Dennis and Mars are in the den. I'll get your brother, then come back for you. We'll go down the stairs and out the front door, you understand?
Yes.
Want one?
I don't drink beer.
Mommy won't know. You can do anything you want right now. Mommy won't know.
What I want is to help my father.
What do you want?
We can't make the microwave work.
What?
We're hungry. You're going to cook.
Make the pizza. I want scrambled eggs and hot dogs on mine.
How about dog shit?
Kevin left without you.
I don't know what you're talking about.
You'd better get out of here! Kevin's coming back!
Kevin's gone, your daddy's gone, everybody's gone.
Now we can do whatever we want.
Stop it.
Ow! Shit!
Be quiet! Listen!
No one's coming.
That big asshole nailed my windows.
Mine, too.
We can use the crawlspace to get downstairs. Then we can run for it.
No! I'm not going to leave Daddy with them!
We can't carry him.
You go, Thomas. You get out, and I'll stay with Daddy.
I'm not gonna leave you!
Go! If you get out, maybe you can help the police!
You leave that gun alone!
Shh, they'll hear you!
Better than you getting killed! Don't touch that gun! Daddy says 
He can't reach us in here. We're safe.
I know.
I need to work out some stuff.
You're hiding, Jeffrey. You're hiding from the job and you're hiding from me.
I still see that boy's eyes.
Can we talk some more when you get here?
We'll see you in a couple of hours.
I should've called. This thing broke right after we spoke, then everything happened so fast 
Don't worry about it. How are you doing?
The Sheriffs will take over when they get here.
But they're not here yet. Tell me about <u>you</u>.
Why don't you guys grab some dinner at the Thai place? I'll meet you there as soon as I can.
You sure?
I don't know how long I'll be stuck here.
I'm in no rush. Maybe later we can talk.
I'm scared shitless.
That's okay. I love you anyway.
How did you get this number?
Mr. Jones is dead. So are two of his men. The other three are in jail. I have the disks. I have Walter Smith. And you know what, you motherfucker? I have you.
I have your fucking family. Don't forget that.
I also have a couple of million in cash. Call Sonny Benza. Ask if I can keep it.
What do you want?
My wife and my daughter and the money. I'll bring the disks to the mall by the freeway, you bring my family. We'll trade.
Fuck that! You think I'm crazy?!
I think you got no choice.
Fuck the mall. You know that motel on the road west of town?
Yeah.
You got ten minutes. If you're one minute late, we won't be here to find.
Take it easy. Just take it easy. We're here to do business.
You said they would be here, goddamnit! Where are they?
They're close. Let me make a call. You can see they're okay.
You said they would be here!
You get the other one when I have my girls. Not <u>talk</u> to them; <u>have</u> them.
Where is it?
Close.
All right. Now the second one.
First my girls. I get my girls, you get the other disk.
I'll kill you! You won't get the other disk!
If you shoot me, he'll kill your daughter. Do you want to lose both of them?
I gave the other one to the Sheriffs and they're giving it to the <u>real</u> FBI. This one's a fake.
You'd better be kidding.
L.A. County Sheriffs are inbound from a bank robbery in Pico Rivera.
Give me an ETA.
An hour, tops. Might be sooner.
What if it goes south?
What do you mean?
If things get wet, we're going to need someone who can handle that end.
You worry about your end. I got my side covered.
I heard he's fucked up. They're taking him to the hospital.
Goddamnit, tell me what you <u>know</u>. Did the cops go in? Did Smith have the disks?
<u>I don't know</u>. Talley talked those punks into letting Smith out. He's fucking us over, Glen. That guy is fucking us over.
What hospital?
Canyon Country.
Talley lives here. I don't know if the place has security or not.
It won't be a problem.
He has a wife and kid. That's how we'll get to him.
Okeydoke.
We have to own this guy, Marion. We don't want him dead; we need to use him.
Donuts here any good?
I don't eat junk food.
Are you out of your mind?
You fucked up, Glen.
Can you identify this man?
That would be Mars Krupchek. Jesus, he works for me, too.
Have Louise run the name 'Mars Krupchek' through DMV and NCIC. Tell her to list the tattoo as an identifier.
Is Krupchek an aggressive guy? Hot tempered? Anything like that?
Keeps to himself, more like.
You have his address?
Pretty sure I do. Yeah, here we go 
It's a safety room. If anyone breaks into your house, you can hide.
Who gives a shit, Mars? Check out the cash! We're rich.
We're trapped in a house.
We can take it with us.
You can't run with suitcases.
That's right. That's a good idea, Mars.
Find something: Extension cords, rope, wirewe'll have to tie them tight.
Find something, Kevin. Don't just stand there. And tie this bastard, too. I don't want him waking up and goin' Rambo on us.
The cops are comin'!
I got the gasoline 
We don't have time!
What the fuck is that?
They'll cut the power.
Cops want to be rich like everyone else. All we have to do is share. And if he wants someone to swing for the Chinaman, we'll give'm Mars.
Dennis.
You got something to say?
I like it here, Dennis. I'm never going to leave.
Fuckin' A.
You mean he <u>left</u>, as in went out the front door?
I overheard him with the girl.
<u>Shit</u>! That <u>fuck</u>! Even when I want to turn myself in he screws it up! Did he take the kids with him?
I don't know.
Jesus, get upstairs and find out! If he took those kids, we're fucked!
Who else is here?
My father.
He needs a doctor.
Shut up and sit down. You think someone's gonna make a house call?
My father needs a doctor. <u>Please</u>.
Hey, I've got a situation here, in case you haven't noticed.
All you're doing is watching yourself on TV. <u>Look</u> at him.
Use more ice.
I'm getting a doctor!
What about my father?
Aw, Jesus, not more of this.
<u>Look</u> at him! I think he's dying!
Take'm back upstairs, but don't tie'm like before. That little fuck untied himself anyway.
You with the cops?
The Bristo Police Department. Look out the window. You see the car?
Yeah. I'm Rooney.
We had an awful lot of shooting. You need a doctor in there?
We're cool.
Let me speak to Mr. Smith. I want to hear it from him.
Fuck you. I'm running this shit. You talk to me.
How about your two friends? You don't have a man dying in there, do you?
They're fine.
All three subjects are confirmed inside. Call off the housetohouse. Okay, Dennis, I want to explain your situation 
You don't have to explain shit! That Chinaman pulled a gun. We wrestled for it. That Chinaman shot himself.
Mr. Kim didn't make it, Dennis. He died.
How about the cop?
Dennis? I want you to release those people.
Fuck that. They're the only thing stopping you from blowing us away.
We're not coming in there by force, okay? No one wants to hurt you.
I got these people! You try to come get me, I'll kill every fuckin' one of them!
It's over now, Dennis! Don't hurt anyone.
We'll burn this fuckin' place down! I got gasoline all over in here!
Talley?
I'm here.
I want a helicopter to take us to Mexico.
That's not going to happen, Dennis. They won't give you a helicopter.
I'll give you these people.
The Mexican police would arrest you as soon as it landed. There's only one way out and you're doing it right nowjust keep talking to us. I think we could make the transition now. Maddox, you good to go?
Hey, Dennis? Can I let you in on a personal secret?
What?
I gotta piss real bad.
You're a funny guy, Talley.
I'm going to put on an officer named Will Maddox. You talk to him for a while.
That you, Talley?
The one and only. We got a little problem out here, Dennis.
You oughta try on the problem I got in here.
I need you to let me talk to Mr. Smith.
We been through that. Forget it.
We can't forget it. The Sheriffs think you won't let me talk to Smith because he's dead. They think you murdered him.
Now I understand. That helps. I can make them understand that.
Okay.
Let me come get him.
Fuck that! You bastards will jump me!
If you won't let me come in, then put him outside.
You'll cap my ass as soon as I step out the door!
You've already helped yourself once, Dennis; be smart again. If you save his life, it'll help when you get to court.
You got a sniper out there, gonna shoot me?
Only if you try to grab me. We could've shot you from the wall.
You've been in there a long time. What're you waiting for?
Would you be in a hurry to go to prison for the rest of your life?
I'd be trying to get the best deal that I could.
Maybe that's what I'm doing. Can I reach in my pocket, show you something?
You picked a bad house to hole up in, son.
Two hundred thousand cash, right in your pocket, no one needs to know.
Give up.
There's a million dollars in there, maybe <u>two</u> million. I'll give you half.
It ain't been a good day, Chief.
Give up, Dennis. Let these people go. At least you'll have your life.
C'mon, Dennis, this is stupid. I thought we were gonna go to the movies.
Mars?! Whattaya think, dude? Out here on the edge, no one around, it's perfect, right?
Try to act cool, okay? He's gonna think you're a dick.
Robbing this place is gonna put you back in prison.
Not if they don't catch us, Kevin.
We got jobs, man; we're working. Why even take the chance?
Because if you don't take the chance, you're already dead.
There's fuckin' blood all over you!
I didn't know he would have a gun! It just went off!
That woman's gonna call the cops.
Shut up, goddamnit! Just calm down!
What if he's dead? What if you killed him?
That's why we gotta keep going. I'm not gonna go in for murder.
We're on foot. We can't get away.
We're surrounded by houses, dumbass. Every house has a car in the garage. All we have to do is take one.
We could've gone out the back! You didn't have to shoot!
Stop it! They found the truck, Kev! They're already behind us!
We should give up. All we're doing is making it worse.
I have to tell you something 
We gotta find a way outta here is what we gotta do!
It's about Mars 
That cop didn't pull his gun. Mars lied. He just started shooting!
Bullshit. Why would Mars do that?
I was <u>there</u>, Dennis! I <u>saw</u>! It's like he <u>wanted</u> to shoot that cop.
You're being stupid. Check out the bathroom. Maybe we can sneak out a window 
Jesus. What is this?
Are you totally stupid? What does it look like?
Everyone knows what we look like, Dennis. We won't be able to hide.
Jesus, first Mars, now you. You two need antidepressants.
Someone should stay with Mr. Smith. What if he wakes up?
That's why we tied him, dumbass. Now come here and see this 
These bushes follow the wall into the neighbor's yard. All we need is some kind of diversion and we're home free.
That's crazy, Dennis. The cops will see us.
Not if they're looking at something else.
Like what?
We can't carry all this. It's too heavy.
I've been carrying you our whole fuckin' lives.
We're fucked.
We're fucked until we think of a way out; then we're rich.
There is no way out.
For chrissake, <u>please</u>! Help me celebrate! I figured it out!
Celebrate what? Going to prison?
If we don't escape, we gotta get the word out about the cash. That's how we'll stay alive.
What are you talking about?
The only way he can keep the cash is if nobody knows about it. He's gotta cap all three of us before they even read our rights. He's probably planning it right now.
That's crazy. He's not going to kill us.
Kevin, you're so fuckin' stupid...
It's over. We have to give up.
Fuck it's over. That money's mine.
That money's fucked up your brain. Talley's going to get tired of waiting for us to give up, and we'll all be fuckin' killed!
Then we might as well die rich.
I'm not going to die for this!
Jen? Are you all right?
She'll be dead if you don't put your ass in that chair!
Who sent you?
Don't go Rambo and you'll tell'm about this on the back nine. I'm gonna tie you up, then we're gonna take your car.
The car. All you want is the car?
Am I talkin' raghead?! I want your car! <u>Gimme the goddamned keys</u>!
Stay down! Stay <u>down</u>, goddamnit!
I'm going to my desk.
You're not goin' anywhere! Get on the fuckin' floor!
<u>Get on the floor</u>!
I have contacts in Los Angeles. Lawyers and judges who can help you.
Mars, watch the cops! Kevin! Watch the back of the house!
You won't die if you let me help.
Bullshit!
But if you stay in this house, I can promise you this 
<u>Shut up! Shut up and get on the floor</u>!
You can't imagine the fucking you're going to get.
Maybe we're getting too dramatic. It's three kids. They'll give up, the cops will arrest them, and that's that. Why would they search the house?
You think we should take that chance?
I guess not.
I guess not, too. How much information is in the house?
What, he's cute? That's his idea of humor?
If the Feds get those disks, the East Coast is gonna take a hit, too. You should let them know.
No way. I tell them, that Old Man is gonna handle this from back there.
Worst case, it's a bloodbath. The detectives come out with Smith's computer, and we go directly to jail, do not pass Go.
Maybe Glen already picked up the disks.
I took the call from Glen personally. They're still in Smith's house.
You should warn them, Sonny.
<u>Fuck</u> them! Now get your head in the game, Philwe have to handle this.
Put our people on the scene. Smith might talk just to cut a break for his kids.
He knows better than that.
Bullshita man will do anything to save his family. Who's running the show up there?
Find out how we can hurt him. By the end of the day, I want to own him.
It's happening right now.
The house is in flames, Benza's accountant is with the cops, and they're stacking the bodies like cordwood.
Jesus Christ, it's a clusterfuck.
You wanted to let Sonny handle it. I would've moved in when we first found out.
And by doing so, he would've known we have spies in his organization.
Yes, sir. But what about the disks? If the cops end up with the disks, we're gonna see a whole lot of heat.
I hate that Mickey Mouse bastard. I hated his father, and I hate Sonny, too. Always with the tan.
What do you want to do?
Our people out there, they good people? People in the right place?
The best.
Sonny's a fuckup. If he pulls this off, finelife goes on. But if the cops end up with those disks, we cut our losses.
I understand.
I want a message sent: No fuckups allowed.
I'll make the call.
Talley.
It's me, Chief. Can you talk?
What'd you find out?
The cell phone is registered to a jewelry store in Beverly Hills. The phone company shows no unusual 
Dead endit's a clone. What about the Mustang?
It was stolen.
You get anything on Smith?
Chief...it's like none of this exists. I'm sorry.
Keep trying.
Mike! Mike, can you hear me?
I think he's dead!
Don't shout, Larry. I'm three feet away.
The house belongs to Walter and Pamela Smith. They've got two kids, a girl about fifteen and a boy younger, Jennifer and Thomas.
That would be the girl who opened the door. Are the others inside?
The mother is in Florida visiting her sister. The father works at home, so he's probably inside.
Call the Palmdale City Attorney for a telephonic search warrant. When you get the warrant, have Mikkelson and Dreyer search his house.
Yes, sir.
Wow. Sure, right away, Chief.
Don't tell anyone what you're doing, not Louise, not the other guys, not the Sheriffs. You understand me, Larry?
I guess so.
Fuck guessing. You keep your mouth shut.
I will, Chief. Absolutely.
Get to work.
Good afternoon, Mr. Parker.
Good afternoon... ... Shirley.
Would you like to deposit this in your account?
No. The money, please.
This check is for sixteen thousand dollars. That's a lot of cash to be carrying around.
I can take care of myself.
Alright. It's going to take a few minutes. I have to call and verify the funds.
You kept it?
Yes.
What are you doing?
I shouldn't have come back here. It was a mistake.
Is it a mistake for someone to go to the ones who love them when they're in trouble?
Yes  when their troubles can harm them.
Why won't you ever let anyone help you?
I heard voices downstairs. Is everything alright?
Fine.
What will you do?
There's nothing I can do. I'll wait. One way or another soon it will all be over soon.
I could have ended it tonight, but I didn't.
Why?
I don't know. He is the stronger one. He has a power
You also have a power, Conner. It is why you have survived.
Do not underestimate the power of your heart. Your dreams live there.
My dreams died long ago.
Did they? You are only a man, different than most  but still a man. You feel the same  want the same. You want to live.
I haven't lived life  I've hidden from it. I've existed in the shadows.
And now it's time to come out of the shadows.
Dear, sweet, Rachel. Men's lifes are measured by the good they do.
If you search your heart you know all the good you have done. Your strength comes from your heart  because in your heart you know what you are fighting for is good and just. This room is filled with memories. If you search through them you can find the good  the difference you have made. And now, it is for you to make the greatest difference of all. Look in your heart, Conner  and you will see the good that you have done.
Would you care for some water, Conner?
Aye  that I would, lass.
Don't leave us, Conner.
It's not for me to decide.
Don't cry, wee one. It's a better place I go to.
I love you, Conner.
Aye  I know, Las  and I have never loved anyone more.
I'll no forget you.
And I you. Go now. Let me walk to heavens door alone.
You know it's not safe here for you.
I know.
The police still have a lot of questions for Russell Nash.
I can take care of myself.
It isn't over, is it, Conner?
No.
How can that be?
I don't know.
Is there anything else you need?
No  I'm fine. Thank you.
I'm glad you've come home, Conner.
Me too.
Highlander  I had hoped it would be you.
This cannot be.
I am stronger than you, Highlander.
That's what the Kurgan said.
The Kurgan was a pussy.
Fine  I've waited over three centuries. I can wait a little longer.
Why did you wait?
It was not by choice. A small matter of a mountain falling down on us. We were trapped inside. When the time of the Gathering came the urge to go was so strong we tried to claw through rock with our bare hands. What you thought was the end  was not. This is the end. We are the last of our kind, Macleod.
It will not end tonight.
You cannot hide from me. You will not stand between me and my destiny. After I have your head the power will let me hold any form as long as I want. Do you know what that means? I can become the President  I can become anyone I want. The world will be mine.
It flatters me you remember, old one. It's been what... two hundred years?
It's not been long enough. What witchcraft is this?
Impressive  is it not? The problem is I can only keep the illusion for a few minutes. I need more power to hold the form longer. I need the Highlander. Where is he?
I do not know  and even if I did...
I know. I know you would not tell me. Loyalty  it really is a concept that eludes me. Oh well  I shall find him. Time is on my side.
Oh  I almost forgot. Your head.
It does not come off as easily as the young ones.
Perhaps  but it comes off none the less.
Just a little. Who knows what we're going to find in there. It could be a huge excavation. A little friendly PR never hurt.
Where is the film crew from the British Museum?
They've had a little car trouble. I'm afraid they won't be here until after dark.
Then we shouldn't break into the cavern until tomorrow morning. This could be a very important find. I want it documented.
We're holding the workers down below.
Why?
Someone broke into the cavern last night.
What? How?
He's fine. He swears he never left his post for a moment. He heard a noise and when he went back to look they were already inside.
How could they get by him?
I don't know.
We found him this morning.
What's that next to him?
His head. Someone cut it off.
Incredible. The cloth  the buttons  it looks to be mid sixteen hundreds. It's a remarkable duplication.
I don't think it is a duplication.
It has to be.
And this?
You stayed here again last night?
I was working on the cataloging.
Jennifer, there is more to life than work.
I know, Paul.
Do you? Then why don't you go out? Meet someone. Make a life for yourself instead of hiding away in the past?
I like my work.
I'm having some people over tonight for dinner  I'd like you come.
We'll see.
My name is Jennifer Hillman. I was at the police station earlier today
I remember you.
I was wondering if I could talk to you?
Are you a cop?
No. I'm an archaeologist.
What do you want?
To talk to you.
I don't think we have anything to talk about, Miss Hillman.
Corpses?
Yes. We found another man outside a site we were working at in Scotland.
In the highlands?
Yes. How did you know?
A lucky guess.
I don't think so  but then, maybe you've can guess how a guy with a sword could rob the First national Bank this afternoon  and get shot six times in the chest by the guard and still get up and walk out?
He was wearing a bullet proof vest.
Bullet proof vests don't bleed.
You got me.
Why do I feel that you know what's going on?
Are you the type of person who takes advice, Miss Hillman?
If it's good advice.
This is. Go home. Stay out of this.
Why? What's going on?
Where did you get it?
It's mine. It's been in my family for years. It belonged to my great, great, great grandmother.
You're hurt.
I'll be fine.
What's going on? Why did he call you Macleod?
Because it's my name.
Then who's Russell Nash?
I don't know anymore.
You are a very persistent woman, Miss Hillman.
Jennifer.
Why do you stare at me like that?
You remind me of someone I used to know.
I don't have any answers for you.
Who was that man last night?
I don't know.
Then how did he know your name?
Do you always walk around with a sword?
New York is dangerous place.
You talk to me  but you don't answer my questions. I guess I'll have to talk to Lieutenant Bedsoe.
About what?
It probably wouldn't interest you. It's something I read in a mythology book.
I'm interested in mythology.
Have you ever heard of the Calan?
No.
You look like you have.
Yes.
Meet me Tratino's at nine.
Why?
I told you I'm interested in mythology. We can talk about it more.
Good evening.
You're twenty minutes late.
Sorry.
You didn't answer my question.
I know.
You have an interesting accent. Where are you from?
Why?
I'm just trying to place you.
I've lived all over the world.
You're not an easy person to get to know.
Why? Because I don't give up all my secrets?
How come you wanted to meet tonight?
I wanted to get to know you better.
That makes you uncomfortable?
A little  yes. My interest in coming here is profession.
Is it?
Yes  it is.
Alright. In the shop you mentioned something about
the Calan. Do you know who they are?
Why don't you tell me.
Have you told Lieutenant Bedsoe your theory?
No.
Why not?
Because I don't feel like sitting in a rubber room for fortyeight hours.
You don't really believe this do you?
Let me ask you something else. At the excavation site in Scotland, the tunnel leading into the cavern had collapsed. The day we found the body someone had moved the rocks, making a hole in the collapsed section. What bothers me is that we found the rocks from the hole on our side of the tunnel wall.
So?
Why would someone pull on the rocks to get in the cavern? They were wedged in tight. They couldn't get a grip on them. They would have had much more strength pushing on them.
If they pushed the rocks you would have found them on the other side of the cavern wall.
Yes  if they were trying to get in  but what if they weren't? What if they were trying to get out?
That would mean they'd been trapped in there
for three hundred years.
How could that be? People don't live for three hundred years.
Not unless they're immortal.
Would you like to see it?
I've seen it.
On the back it has
the crest of a lion and a dragon and a single word: Courage.
How did you know that?
It came from your great, great, great grandmother, Isabelle Tourez, who lived in Paris and died on the guillotine in 1789  alone  and unmarried. The ring was given to her by someone who loved her  but knew that it could never be.
You?
You wanted the truth  now you have it.
And the other one  he is like you?
He is immortal  yes  but he is not like me. We are the last of our kind. The last of the Calans. I do not know what purpose we were put here for. I only know that if he wins the world will suffer for it.
Where will you go now?
It will end tonight.
Must you fight him?
He will not stop until it is over.
He's in there!
Get out.
Be careful, Conner.
Conner?
What now?
Now I can start to live. To feel. To grow old and live each day without the promise of another.
Sounds very  normal.
Electro magnetic soundings indicate we've only got a few inches of rock left before we reach the main chamber.
Any idea how big the cavern is on the other side?
Huge.
What are you hoping to find inside?
You guys are from the British museum, right?
No  we're from Strange facts and mysteries. It's a syndicated show out of..
Paul. I thought we agreed. No press.
Aye?
Where do you go when your mind drifts?
Different places.
The past?
Sometimes.
Why is it you never talk to me about Scotland  your life there.
Because it's the past  and things that are in the past are best left there.
I cannot stay.
Why not?
I'm leaving in the morning.
Leaving? For how long?
You'll no see me again.
Why?
I cannot explain.
Do you love me, Conner?
Aye.
Then take me with you.
Where I'm going you cannot follow.
Why are you doing this?
Because, it's for the best. There are somethings that are better left unexplained.
How comes it your are not afraid?
Would'st you harm one who comes to aid you?
I've come to strike a bargain with you. I wish to learn the power of changing.
And what would'st I gain from this bargain?
Your life.
How?
We had a bargain. You promised.
I lied.
It will be a good harvest this year.
Can you really tell from doing that?
What do you think?
I think you just like to eat dirt.
I think my Sarah fancies you, Conner.
She's a treasure she is.
She'll soon be of age.
Your words are kind and they flatter me  but I think of her as a sister. Besides, you hardly know me.
I know that for six months you've worked hard and asked for little. That you're a good and honest man. What more need I know?
This cannot be.
It is. Do not ask me how. I do not know. I must leave, for if I stayed others would surely hear of this and worse than they will come.
Agreed.
I would like to say goodbye.
How?
You'll have no need for that, Highlander.
Since we hardly know each other, I'm sure you'll understand if I hold one to it for awhile.
Caution shows wisdom.
I know that weapon. It belonged to Juan Romeriz. He's dead?
Aye.
You?
No. He was my brother. He died at anothers hand.
We too are brothers, Macleod. In fact, you have more family than you think.
Who are you?
Thomas Cavenaugh. I am a teacher of sorts. Like Romeriz I help those newly acquainted with our life.
I learned my fill from Romeriz.
Indeed you did. And now it is time for you to pass on to others what you learned from him.
The prize? So much blood so that in the end the one that remains will be mortal again. So much pain so that the winner can grow old and have children. The prize hardly seems worth the cost of it.
There will be more to the prize than that. Power will come with it  and it must be used for good.
The days of magic are ending. The world is changing.
Aye  yet one such as I who has wandered this world for nearly nine centuries can remember back to other days of change. Days of Robin of the Hood and Arthur Pendragon. They were real enough once, but they drifted into men's dreams and became legend   as we shall do one day.
You cannot run from your destiny, Conner.
Perhaps  but if I must face it, let it find me, for I shall search for it no more.
Must you do that?
What?
Sing.
It is a beautiful day. I am merely enjoying it.
Can't you enjoy it quietly?
Are you always this pleasant? You know what you're problem is?
You?
Life. You've stopped living it. You look, but you do not see. You listen but, you do not hear.
I hear you.
What else? What else do you hear right now?
The river.
That's all?
Yes.
Do you not hear the wind in the trees? The songs of the birds. The horses breath? There is a whole world around you. Alive. Living. Feel it  become part of it. Live your life, Highlander. It's going to be a long one.
That is what bothers me.
I see. You don't care about life anymore.
I'm leaving.
Leaving what?
England. There is nothing for me here anymore.
And what do you think you will find in another land?
Maybe myself.
Then it's worth the journey.
Thank you, Thomas.
For what?
For being a friend when I needed one. I hope our paths cross again.
I'm sure they will.
As friends  always as friends.
We cannot write our destiny, Macleod. In the end it could be you and me.
That is a thought that doesn't please me.
If it came down to it what would you do?
I do not know. I pray that I shall never have to raise my sword against one that I call friend.
You're looking a wee bit green, Thomas.
The sea and I don't agree with each other. Where we off to?
France.
How long is the voyage?
Not long. We should arrive in the morning. Are you going to be alright?
Me? Of course.
What are we doing here?
Living. Remember?
You may be living  but this suit is killing me.
To ask her to dance.
She's the King's cousin.
Then she should be an excellent dancer.
Yes.
What worries you?
You.
You've been seeing her for over a month now. Have you learned nothing from the past?
I've learned that a man can only go so along living alone.
So, you do this for yourself? What about her? You cannot not have a relationship, Macleod. You've told me of your wife, Heather, and how you loved her. Romeriz warned you then, but you would not listen. You watched her grow old and die  and there was nothing you could do.
That was two hundred and fifty years ago  and the pain still scars your heart. Would you live that pain again?
No. What am I to do?
The only thing you can do. You must end it.
Well?
It's done.
I'll go first.
No  I will.
I stood up first.
That doesn't matter.
You always get to go first.
You can go first.
No  after you.
Detective Bedsoe.
Lieutenant.
Congratulations.
When did you get back?
A few days ago.
That's what I figured. Well, I have a little home coming present for you.
Where were you last night around nine?
I already told you. I took a walk.
Tell me again. Where'd you go?
Central Park.
Doesn't it scare you walk through the park at night?
No. I don't scare easy.
Where have you been for the last seven years?
Around.
And Brenda?
She was a good woman.
You didn't bring me here to talk about her.
No.
I brought you here to talk about him. Do you know him?
No.
You sure?
He doesn't look familiar  but then he'd probably be easier to identity with his head.
I'm gonna nail you, Nash. That's a promise.
Is that it?
No. I'm telling you right now, the next person's head that comes off is gonna be yours.
Lieutenant, you're really frightening me.
Get outta here.
Good evening, Lieutenant.
No  it isn't. A cop died today and the other is barely holding on. I want some answers, Nash.
I'm sorry about that  but I had nothing to do with it.
That doesn't mean you don't know what's going on. You're connected to this guy somehow. He's after you  just like the others were.
It's late.
Seven years ago I interviewed a guy. He said he saw two men fighting in an alley with swords. One cut off the others head. He shot the surviving guy twenty times and he got right back up and stabbed him.
Maybe he was a lousy shot.
Most people would show some sign of fear with a gun in their face.
Most people are afraid of death.
Yes  I think it is.
Hey  somebody want to gimme a hand here?
I'm in the middle of an interrogation, Captain.
Interrogation's over, Bedsoe.
What?
Cut him loose. The D.A. says you ain't got shit on this guy.
You don't understand. About seven years ago we found the body of a guy named Vasilnic in Jersey. A week later in the parking lot of Madison Square Garden we found Iman Fasil. Three days after that Luman Castageer was found in an alley. The fourth body we've never been able to identify. All four men died from decapitation. Nash was our primary suspect  but he disappeared.
It's circumstantial.
For Chrissake! Gimme a break. The guy disappears for seven years and as soon as he comes back it starts again.
I see your point, Bedsoe, but I have to look at this from the law's point of view. There's something missing here. It's something I'm sure you've come across many times in your career. It's called evidence. Get me a murder weapon with his fingerprints on it. Find me an eye witness. Dig up a motive. Until then we don't have a case against him.
Did you find a sword? An old sword?
Yeah  how'd you know that?
Hey Lieutenant, the boys in robbery have something I think you should look at.
What is it?
A tape from the surveillance camera at the First National Bank. It was robbed this morning.
Really? I want to make sure that I understand what you're telling me, Greley. A crime was committed in New York City? That is news.
The guy had a sword and was dressed like this guy.
That's not all, Lieutenant. Wait until you see the tape. It's unbelievable.
I'd like you to see this.
Good  also, give it to the papers and TV.
Y'know, the guys in robbery are gonna get kind of upset. We're stepping on their toes of this one.
Tough.
It's not a homicide, Lieutenant.
This ties in with Nash.
We don't have any proof of that.
I don't need proof. I know it. Send it out.
Anything from the bank?
We sent the prints we lifted from the counter at the bank to the State computers, the FBI and interpol. Nothing.
He had to come from somewhere.
I think it was England.
Why?
I asked the State Department to check with our Embassies and Interpol to see if there were any similar occurrences like the bank. Two weeks ago in London Charles Redder from the Bronx was mugged in Hyde Park.
So?
Lieutenant Bedsoe?
Not now. I'm busy.
Lieutenant?
What? Who are you? What do you want?
My name is Jennifer Hillman. I'm an archaeologist. I read in the paper about the murder yesterday and I thought I should come talk to you.
Talk to me about what?
What do you think?
They appear to be authentic.
Why are people walking around New York with swords, dressed in mid evil clothing?
Well, technically it's not mid evil   it's Renaissance.
You didn't see this. Understand?
Yes.
What the hell. What is this? A joke?
No joke, Lieutenant.
Where's the guy we saw in the beginning  what's his name...?
Parker. We found him knocked out in the can.
If he was knocked out in the can how could be walking across the lobby?
Hey, I don't have answers for this. I just brought you down here because of the sword.
Am I supposed to believe that this guy got shot in the chest six times at point blank range and just got up and walked out?
You can believe what you want. You saw the tape.
And this  is the master bedroom.
Oh yeah? Where's the bed?
Right over here.
Is it a king or a queen?
It's a double.
Even better.
Even cosier.
That's right  you got the bill this morning. I put it on your desk.
Thank you  how efficient of you.
Promise?
Promise.
I'd like that.
Would you?
Uh huh.
Really?
Really.
Are we gonna buy this house?
Do you have enough money?
Dad, we can't decide unless Rudolf gets to look too!
Would you mind if Rudolf had a look too?
Okay! We have TV! We can all get stupid again!
What about cable?
We'll get cable when the cable company is good and ready  you think you can survive till then?
No.
All right, who ate the last piece of cheesecake?
I didn't.
Neil, do you mind?
Rudolf? C'mere, Rudolf!
All right then, if I have to go to school then I'd better go.
Why? I just read your report card. What's the point? Stay home, watch some television, we'll get "Mad" magazine delivered. What kind of report card do you call this?!
I've been going through a lot of personal crap, all right?
Oh really? <u>You've</u> been going through a lot of personal crap. You, Princess Di and Madonna?
If you want that baseball jacket for your birthday, Neil, learn to cough a little more realistically.
I have a cold.
What did the thermometer say?
The thermometer's broken.
Y'know what? I'm ready to cancel our trip. I really am. I've had it.
And I can't help having a cold.
What d'you want me to do, Neil? I've told you we'll get another dog. What does EVERYONE want me to do? You want to move back? Huh? Would you like that? Should we all just pack up again and MOVE BACK?!
Hiya, sport. Where'd you come from, huh?
Can we keep him?
A <u>man</u> started the fire.
Neil, goddamn it, you're not five years old!
You knew a second ago. <u>Who</u> started it?
 A man.
Do you see a man?
No.
No man! <u>Go to your room</u>.
I thought I was supposed to stay in my room.
Get on the other side of that.
God, your sister's really hot.
Shut up.
Let's follow 'em.
What for, dickweed?
It's fun.
Grow up, Dreyer.
Shit!
Put it out, man!
It's been on the market a while, hasn't it?
Not very long. There have been a couple of bids already.
Because it caught my eye when it was in a higher price bracket in the listings.
Oh, yes, well, you know, when developers remodel a house they often overestimate their costs at first. It's not like it's been marked down or anything.
Just reduced.
Sometimes they prefer a quicker return on their investment.
This is a terrific entrance hall, What a welcoming feeling.
Isn't it?
You'll see that there's really much more space than the average three bedroom.
Oh, space!  You said the right thing.
How large is your brood?
Two  three if you count the husband.
We must <u>always</u> count the husband. By my count there've been... four. But I still live in hope.
Neil, calm down.
Neil, don't leave the back doors open  I don't want Holly near the pool.
We'd have to get one of those sliding covers for the pool.
I hear what you're saying, but I know what you're thinking.
What?
You're thinking exactly what I thought when I first saw this house,
What's that?
This  is  the  one  for  us.
Stop knowing me so well.
I know it's at the high end of our range 
High end? Honey, it's a whole new budget.
But it's what we want.
You wanted furniture too, didn't you?
They don't expect to get what they're asking. Let's make an offer.
You want me to bargain at the high end of our range?  I'll have a stroke. I've got to save all my sweat for my meeting in three weeks.
You could have a pool to cool off in.
It's a nice pool, isn't it?
And it's a shorter commute.
It'll be even shorter if I get that new job. Come on.
What if someone else buys it in the meantime?
Honey, nobody buys a house overnight  if someone else comes back at them, well, we might have to make a counter offer. But we can't look too eager or we'll get screwed.
We're going to think about it.
It's very nice, but it's still a little pricey for us.
How were we  were we cool?
Paul Newman in "The Hustler."
Good  that's what I was trying to project.
<u>Now</u>, Neil. Stop teasing your sister.
Damn.
Did you hear that?
What?
Did you hear what he said?
What?
He made, you know, a remark.
Honey, are you okay?
 And keep my kids away from his property  who the hell does he think he is? Some nice neighborhood.
Honey, the meeting today is going to be fine. Don't get in an uproar.
I know. It's just having to pass muster with these juniors before the senior partner even agrees to see me.
It's just a dumb game they play. You want to be at a bigger firm, get used to the politics.
How was lunch?
Huh?
How was your lunch with Charlie?
Oh  great.
Well, did he hear anything about your prospects for the new job?
<u>No</u>. If I hear anything you'll be the first to know, all right?
Do you remember who gave us this?
No.
There's no card or anything.
I hear things in this house,
All new houses have noises.
How long does it have to be a new house?
One day before we know it it'll be an old house and we'll be old in it  and I'll still be paying for it.
Neil's still having a bad time at school. I feel terrible seeing him so upset all the time.
He's made some friends, hasn't he?
I mean, he's a smart kid, he'll get by  he takes after me. You're too sensitive.
I know someone else who's sensitive.
Yeah, I guess it would be good for us to get away for a while. Maybe Rudolf got the same idea. Dogs need a change of scene, too, from time to time.
Someone nice will find him if he gets lost.
No, I'm not kidding you, <u>Philip</u>.
What next?!  A strange bra under my pillow!
I <u>remember</u> what day you wore that jacket. It was <u>Monday</u>. The day you were all day in <u>meetings</u> again? And had to send out for <u>sandwiches</u>?
Honey, you know what I've been like lately... I've been a total zombie. I have no idea what that was doing in my pocket.
Well, what about <u>these</u>? Do you usually put your <u>carbons</u> in your pocket, too?!
Sweetheart, this is a very risky time for me right now. Maybe you don't appreciate that.
I don't care, Philip. You want to go chasing Barbara Zelman, go ahead. Just watch out for those buck teeth.
Barbara <u>Zelman</u>? I don't believe this!
Do you usually pay for Charlie? At "Trattoria <u>Valentino</u>"?
Honey, I can't track of all the meals Charlie and I have been having. This is a delicate time. If it leaks out that I'm jumping ship before I'm set up someplace else I could be out on my ear before I'm ready with nothing. With <u>nothing</u>.
There <u>are</u> people who do things because they <u>want</u> to get caught.
Who told you that  someone on the radio?
Fuck you, Philip.
I thought we'd be happy here.
Honey, I'm sorry, I think the vacation will be a good break for both of us. You'll see.
The cab's waiting!
Where should I hide the car keys?
I don't know  put 'em in the drawer with all the Chinese take away menus.
Did you lock the garage door?
Did the cleaning woman come?
Yeah  she did a good job. This glass looks brandnew.
The floor has a nice shine to it. Oh God  we have twentytwo messages on the machine.
Did she water this plant? It looks a little bent out of shape.
He wants to see me!
Philip! The senior partner?
His secretary just confirmed.
Oh baby.
What  what are you doing?
I think you should feel like dancing at a time like this.
C'mon.
Honey? How did it go? You didn't call me.
He wasn't there.
What?
I get to the restaurant and he's not there. I waited for forty five minutes. When I called his office, his secretary said they thought I had cancelled. I had cancelled! Then I get back to my office and <u>Aranson</u> is waiting for me and he knows <u>everything</u>.
Oh, honey.
<u>Everything</u>  that I've been talking to other people behind his back  that's what he called me  a backstabber and a deceiver. To him and to the company. He called me a traitor in front of everybody and told me if I wanted to be a VP over at Lowenthal I might as well pack up and go  only <u>Lowenthal never</u> <u>showed up for our lunch</u>! It's like everybody got an anonymous poisonpen letter or some  Do you smell smoke?
Honey  I can't find those large size Hefty trash bags!
There might be some extras in the garage.
Honey, it's not the end of the world. You'll call Lowenthal tomorrow and find out it was just a mixup. And if he's not interested anymore, then you'll find another company to go to maybe even your own. You are free now, you are independent.
I'm <u>fired</u>. I'm unemployed. Is that your idea of negotiating from a position of strength? Clearly any potential employers have been warned to back off!
That's not the case.
Someone blew the whistle. Someone hates me.
Boy, you really buckle under a little pressure, don't you?
This is for the best, you know it is. Why do my socks keep disappearing!
"Honey, I'm a zombie, I don't know whether I'm coming or going."
You're even sadder and more burnt out than I thought.
I am so sick to death of hearing <u>your</u> opinion of my state of mind, what <u>you</u> think is for my own good. Without me you'd still be twirling a baton at U.C. Santa Barbara. <u>You're</u> the final straw on this back, baby!
Who was that?
I'm having the floor fixed,
And what was that neighbor guy doing here?
Philip, what are <u>you</u> doing here?
Look, I think we should work things out.
I was having a bad day  I lost that job, I was dependent on other people, I was let down 
There's always an excuse, isn't there?
I think it's time I came home now.
That's not a decision for you to make on your own.
What?
No, Philip, I don't want you coming back here. And if you want to talk to me  <u>call</u>.
This is my house.
Oh God.
Yeah  we know him. He's been hanging around the house.
Should I come home when I'm finished there?
We'll talk in the morning.
C'mon, kids, let's go.
"We don't want to be late for our first day of school."
Why can't you just drive me to my old school every morning?
Because you'd have to get up at five a.m., would you like that?
I could take a cab on the way home.
Here, take this out to the table.
But there's this <u>psycho</u>. Really. Mom, there's a psycho I have to deal with <u>every day</u>. I don't know why they let a psycho even go to school!
Has anyone seen Rudolf? I don't think he came in last night.
No, honey, I haven't seen him. Didn't you feed him this morning?
RUDOLF!
He doesn't have a temperature.
I can't help it if my homework is torn to shreds three times a week by someone <u>much</u> bigger than me</u>.
Thank God.
I think we got it just in time before the ink dried.
Whew.
The pocket's a cinch  I'll sew it up for you after dinner, okay?
Thanks, Mom.
Neil, you could have burned the house down!
I don't <u>know</u> how it started!
Where'd he go?
He's staying with a friend. Hurry up now, you'll be late for school.
Neil  what 
Mom, <u>there's somebody in the</u> <u>house</u>!
Honey 
Mom, I heard someone downstairs!
Honey, do you want some hot chocolate?
No, thanks, Mom  I'll go up to bed now.
Do you want me to come up and tuck you in?
That's okay, Mom.
You've done a really great job with the house. It's great!
Yeah. There's still a lot I want to do. It's not quite... the kids aren't really settled in yet. Even the dog has been terribly highstrung and whines a lot since we've been here. Look, he hasn't even come in for his food today.
So you don't have anything concrete?
No, I told you. A whiff of perfume on his shirt.
Have you just plain asked him?
I've asked him what's wrong.
And?
The same thing  his business pressures, the whole move and everything. He's frantic about nailing this new job, worried about screwing over his present boss.
I'm sure that's all it is, honey. Maybe you both just need a vacation.
I've tried to get him to agree to one. I just  I don't know... I'm getting such weird vibes lately.
Don't drive yourself crazy. It's probably nothing.
Rita, he's only twelve years old,
He'll never appreciate it more.
I found a cent!
"Find a penny, pick it up, all day long you'll have good luck!"
'"... or I'll huff and I'll puff and I'll blow your house down!" And inside their new house, the three little pigs just laughed  '
'Who's afraid of the Big Bad Wolf, the Big Bad Wolf...'
Hey. Have a nice time  it's a good school.
Bye, Neil!
Baby, what is it?
I'm thirsty.
Aw, okay.
It's the middle of the night, sweetie.
A man scared me.
A man? Was it a dream?
Uh huh.
Your daddy and I are kind of mad at each other right now, so we have to spend some time apart.
Why are you mad at each other?
You know how sometimes Neil bugs you and you just get up and walk away from him?
Uh huh.
Well, that's what happens with grownups, too.
Did Daddy tease you?
Yes, he did, and I don't like it any more than you do.
Daddy's gone where Rudolf went and isn't coming back!
Holly  that's not so.
"Hi. I'm Mr. Edgar!" Look, Mommy, it doesn't even hurt him.
Well, what do you want me to do, Rita  I can't just forget fifteen years of marriage. Well, of course I know <u>you</u> can. No, Rita, I  what was that?  oh, I thought I heard something on the line.
Mommy!
It's okay, baby, the police are coming.
Oh, well, do you fix refrigerators?
Sure.
Well, can I make an appointment?
Maybe I could take a look at it now.
Oh, great.
Yeah, that was easy.
Do you do washing machines, too?
Just show me the way.
Everything breaks at once.
Isn't that always the way?
So, you're just kind of a roving 
 General handyman, yeah. I do carpentry, too, painting, almost any odd job around the house. I do housesitting while the owners are away. In fact, that's why I've been in the area. I've been living very close by. Here's the part that's giving you trouble, but I won't be able to get a replacement till the stores open tomorrow morning.
Oh, that's fine.
I apologize for that scene with my husband. You must have overheard.
An occupational hazard, I'm afraid.
I bet. Going into people's homes.
It's a living.
Do you have a family?
Uh, no  I've never really found the time to settle down.
You must value your independence.
Yeah, I've always been able to make my way in the world. I don't like having to rely on other people.
It's nice that you can make that choice.
I was alone a lot as a child. No one to compete with. My parents ensured that I found happiness in the smallest things. When you're all alone it's your own world, you don't have to take orders from anybody. You don't necessarily believe the stories people tell you.
Not me, I fell for it right down the line. Be a good girl and believe all the fairy tales. He married me because I was pretty.
Because you <u>were</u> pretty?
I was driving by  I saw all the cars. Are you all right?
Yeah, I'm okay  it's been a long night.
What happened?
Can I tell you tomorrow? I think I...
I was thinking about our conversation the other day  what you said about choices.
Uh huh.
Yeah, you know, that in life you really have to choose what you want to do.
Listen, I'm sorry, but it's really late  you don't have to come tomorrow to work on the floor.
It is tomorrow.
Yeah, right  I really have to go to bed.
I think we should talk first.
About what?
About us.
Mr. Sykes, I think you should go home.
How's the new place?
It's great. It's clean and airy and quiet  there are trees and flowers. There's still some fixing up I have to do, but it's coming along.
And the rent is okay?
Oh, it's nothing. No problem. I was really lucky to find this place.
All right then. That's important, isn't it?  For you to be in an "up" environment. I'm saying you should literally take that as your <u>base</u>, do you know what I mean? It's something positive that you've accomplished  even if you were forced by circumstance  something for you to build upon.
Right.
And what about work? Have you had any more thoughts about what you'd like to be doing now?
Well, I've been doing a little independent contracting, some carpentry here and there, y'know, doityourselftype stuff. I still find it very soothing.
I'm happy that you're working again. As long as it comes naturally, that's terrific. You've always liked working with your hands, haven't you?
Yeah, since I was a kid. I had a woodwork class once when I was... in school that time. Then I learned a lot more when I was in the 
 hospital.
 institution.
Right. So, you have a new place, you've started working a bit  I'm sure you'll be meeting some new people.
Actually, I have met someone. There's a woman I think I like.
Oh, good  well, I hope you'll have more to tell me next time.
Yeah, things are moving along, but she's still involved with this other guy and it's a little tricky.
Listen, no one ever said expressing yourself to the opposite sex is easy, but when the time comes, you have to do it and you <u>hope</u> the outcome will be good for both of you. You come out of solitary and you rejoin the human race, as difficult as that sometimes can be.
When I was a child... I got used to the closets. The boxes. The cabinet under the kitchen sink... with that persistent drip. I used to the smell of the boxes. Wood. Cardboard. I got so I was comfortable there in the dark. Even... even that old refrigerator in the yard. That smelled like rust and decay. It was safe in the boxes. It was when they took me out 
I guess so. I mean, I know I'm responsible for my own actions. It was never because I was angry with anyone. I didn't mean to hurt anyone ever.
You're responsible for your own actions and you don't mean to hurt anyone. In other words, you've done <u>your</u> best. I'm saying don't carry the burden of <u>other</u> people's actions on your shoulders, because they're beyond your control.
And how are things with your lady friend, if I may call her that?
Oh, fine. She's gone away for a little while and when she comes back I've sort of resolved to really tell her how much I care for her.
That's terrific. Don't be afraid to be demonstrative. You're sounding a lot more confident than when we last spoke.
I am. I'm really feeling pretty good. I have a much stronger sense of how far I've come.
As long as you keep remembering why.
Well, we talked about the whole disapproval thing.
The whole disapproval thing. If you allow yourself to get into a situation where someone else's potential disapproval becomes the focal point of your life  then you're back to a life of fear, aren't you?  You're a prisoner to that again, and that isn't much of a life.
I understand that.
And please, don't for God's sake misinterpret that as being the voice of discouragement in any way 
No, no, no, no.
On the contrary  this is tremendous. I mean, we're all frightened to death of disapproval and we're constantly hiding behind these layers we manufacture for ourselves  and I'm not saying we should, you know, <u>declare</u> ourselves unhesitatingly to our fellow human beings in the interests of total openness and honesty 
That would be stupid.
That would be monumentally stupid. All I'm saying is 
 a sense of proportion.
A sense of proportion.
Things are beginning to come to a head. I can feel it. And I want everything to be perfect.
Who doesn't?
I've cultivated her interests so that now we have even more in common than ever.
Well, now, don't go creating some artificial environment for yourself.
Oh no  I mean, she's genuinely made me more fulfilled in many ways  and I hope eventually to be able to teach her a few things, too. What I mean is, I guess I'm still waiting for just that right  synthesis between us  where everything will be understood between us without even the need for words.
It's not going to happen unless you make it happen, my friend. You're going to have to assert yourself a little bit more. <u>Show</u> your affection.
Yeah, maybe you're right. Everything else is just an excuse. I'm treating the situation with kid gloves because I'm afraid of losing her.
<u>Ask</u> her how she feels.
I should.
You have to put yourself out there a bit more.
Right.
Because life isn't about playing it safe. Life is about taking risks.
Well, these are good signs  she's broken up with him and the two of you seem to be developing quite a rapport.
I <u>know</u>. I just feel that the relationship has reached that delicate stage where the slightest little thing could wreck the careful groundwork I've laid up till now.
I can't help you if you don't help yourself. It's really up to you. Brooding endlessly isn't going to help matters any.
There's so much I want to say to her, it's all jumbled up in my mind, and I don't want her to misunderstand 
Well, you'll just have to <u>make</u> her understand.
Are you being helped, sir?
I'm looking for some perfume.
Any particular brand?
Well, it's for a woman.
Wife, girlfriend or mother?
Oh  uh  girlfriend.
So, <u>Neil</u>. How's it goin'?
Okay.
I'm Bernard, by the way. Those are cool Reeboks, Neil. They're real new, aren't they?
Hey, c'mon.
They're really white.
Give it here, Bernard.
Whoa, check it out.
Was that your dad?
Nah, that's some guy fixing the living room floor.
So where are all your toys?
Let's watch some TV.
Where are these toys of yours?
A lot of my stuff hasn't been unpacked yet. Here's the TV.
What toys do you have?
You test each one thoroughly?
You better believe it, buddy. Your average Rolls Royce doesn't have to pass as many tests. You want consistency? You want dependability? You want safety?
Safety?
Listen, you can kick 'em, hit 'em, pour water all over 'em  <u>nothing</u>. I'm telling you, under ordinary conditions they're <u>quiet</u>, they're nice to have around, they're completely harmless  but when you blow this whistle... ... then look out.
Look at that. You can't buy better protection than that. That there is your Man's Best Friend.
How are they with kids?
They're great with kids. They love 'em. They eat 'em up. I'm kidding.
So this really does the trick, eh?
Friend, that animal will go after whoever's approaching the sound of that whistle. And God help whoever it is. Because that dog will not let up until there's dead meat on the ground. Put your faith in that, pal.
Hey, Miss Gayley, there's a cop looking for you. From Robbery Detail, Inspector Dayton. He wants you to call him.
What about?
I didn't ask him.
Call him back. Ask him. I'm a little...busy.
Excuse me, Ms. Gayley. That guy Inspector Dayton... he's recovered a bunch of your credit cards and he wants...
Who?
Inspector Dayton, the cop from Robbery Detail who was looking for you. They caught the guy who stole your credit cards trying to sell them and he wants...
Nobody stole my credit cards. They burned up in the crash. Which reminds me, did you get me cash? And what about the reservations?
There's no face really, nothing to work with. Big dots, that's all you'll get.
Look at the guy! He just saved fifty people. Now he's going to disappear. Who is he?
Is he like that in real life? So gorgeous?
He's pretty... remarkable.
You didn't... get it on with him?
Don't be ridiculous. I'm a reporter.
Reporters don't have hormones?
Reporters... have to... rise above their hormones.
LaPlante! That asshole! I don't... Hey, is that you, from the tee vee? In person?
We're from Channel Four, yes. We'd like to find 
"This is Gale Gayley for Channel Four News!" Incredible. Unbelievable! For Bernie LaPlante! He's a celebrity now? 'Cause he stole <u>paint</u>?
We couldn't find his name on the buzzer or on the mailbox, but...
Shouldn't we have buzzed him to let him know 
Half the time he don't answer even if he's home. Know why? 'Cause he don't want no bill collectors to find him. I don't mean to be judgmental, but he's a scumbag. He don't have no friends. Who's gonna like a creep like LaPlante? I was doin' him a favor on the TV outta kindness, and he screwed me. You know what color skin you get on my set, Miss Gayley? Purple! That's what color skin you got on the tee vee LaPlante sells me!
No dead body. Too bad. Not too often you guys get pictures of a body even before the cops get there. Exclusive!
I wonder if you'd mind if we waited for him here, Mister Winston...
Hi, Chief. You like the suicide?
Never reach out!
Hello, Mister Wallace.
I didn't say I thought we should have saved him..
You didn't?
I said I wished it had at least occurred to me to consider saving him.
I haven't won it yet. I notice you've got me scheduled on a flight back an hour after the ceremony.
An hour after...! Deak, for Heaven's sake! Let's give her a night in New York City. We'll put her and her boyfriend up at a good hotel...
He lost a shoe!
Who lost a shoe? Wash your hands.
The "unknown hero." They found his shoe right beside the plane crash.
My father didn't have his shoes on when he... when he came here.
You were in bed. Weren't you?
I... I saw him out the window.
My God! It... it <u>is</u> him!
Whwhy's he... why's he up there, mom?
If I gave you the impression I hated him I didn't mean to. I... I hate the way he <u>behaves</u>... he's selfish and selfcentered and cynical...
What's "cynical"?
It's when you say, "Everybody else cheats why shouldn't I?" But I don't  I don't <u>hate</u>  him. I... loved him once, Joey. Very much. I just got... tired. Maybe it wasn't all his fault. He... What's happening? Oh, my God...
Oh my God! Bernie!
Dad!
He's right. It's unprofessional.
If you reach out, you could get pulled over yourself.
Saving people is not our job. It's as wrong to step in and save someone as it would be to push someone off.
You wouldn't push the guy, would you?
Ticket! What's going on?
She's flying to New York. She's been nominated for a Silver Mike...
A Silver Mike! You're covering us in glory!
Not bad. But if you gotta wear a cast, you oughtta feature it more it's parta the story. Network's taking everything we give 'em. They wanta feed off our six o'clock whether we find the mystery guy or not. We're very big nationally.
It's a wonderful piece. Emotional. I love it.
We're gonna feature Gale's cast more. The trick is gonna be keeping the upper hand on this piece. As long as we have Gale and there's no mystery guy, we're the center of the story. But if he shows up and somebody else gets him first or exclusive...
What about a reward for coming forward?
I thought they'd all go "It's him! It's him!" and hug the guy or something.
Relax, Wally. He had the shoe and the shoe checks out.
Does this mean I can stop worrying? Where'd we put him?
Drake Hotel, Penthouse Suite. Never stop worrying. I figure we'll do a sidebar on what it's like to go from sleeping in your car and collecting cans to sleeping in the poshest suite in town. Also Gale's onto something, digging into his background.
Upset! What's he upset about?
Said he's not an actor.
He's not <u>supposed</u> to be an actor, that's the whole point. He's a <u>real</u> <u>life</u> <u>hero</u>, all he has to do is <u>act</u> like a real life hero. That's the <u>beauty</u> of the <u>concept</u>, the whole <u>freshness</u> of it. Did she call him back?
She's talking to him now.
We paid him a million dollars. You'd think he'd want to cooperate a little, help our ratings.
Whaddaya mean what do I wanna know? I wanna know everything. Who's this screwball LaPlante for Pete's sake, what the hell's he doing out there, auditioning for the priesthood? You're supposed to be on top of this, Gale, don't... "Quit!" You can't quit! It's unprofessional!
Quit? She wants to quit?
Listen, Gale, I know you're emotionally involved. Don't be emotionally involved, be professional. No, Gale, you are not a hardbitten, cynical hardass, you just think you are. You are a goddamn cream puff! Try and be a hardass!
She wants to quit?
She can't quit.
Gale shoulda aired that bit first, she's the one who found this clown LaPlante! She let Channel Eight get a beat on us.
Listen, Deak, what if Bubber <u>has</u> got something to hide? What if he's the wrong guy, not really the hero...?
Helluva story!
No, Deak, not a great story. We backed this guy, he's our boy! We gave him a vote of confidence, we gave him a million dollars.
It's not unthinkable.
What?
The Presidency. The public loves him.
For ten more minutes they love him, Wally. I'm sick of him and I'm always about ten minutes ahead of the public.
It would make me feel like a human being instead of a cynical, hardbitten newswoman. Besides it wouldn't be a bad story, would it, "Newswoman Saves Suicide?"
Unprofessional.
You just can't bear the idea of good news.
You're sitting on your ticket.
She broke up with her boyfriend. Listen, babe, we needja back. You gotta follow up on the jumper, find the human interest in the grim, unending tale of woe that pours from the wounded heart of the heartless metropolis.
The story behind the story, the ugly scandal behind the falling millionaire, the dirt, you mean.
That too.
Would the station put me up at a good hotel...?
There's a lot of confusion around what went on last night, it's not clear...
You said all the passengers were accounted for...
Apparently the guy who pulled you out wasn't a passenger...
We're piecing together different accounts and...
A "mystery guy!" "Not a passenger." Who?
There could be problems with something like that Mister Wallace. What if...?
WHAT? THEY FOUND WHAT?
How'd it go?
He'll do it. You reallyshould have talked to him first.
Did you get it? Jesus, did I say that?
Yeah, I got it. Sports training. You learn to follow the ball. How about you do a wrapup from up here? I'll pan off that skyscraper over there, find you here, then reveal the drop.
What're we talking about? Reach out for what?
I told them how you were upset we didn't save the guy...
We're gonna wait here? The guy could be hours.
Maybe, maybe not. I have a feeling this guy is important somehow.
Hey, listen, great that you're a careerfiend, I got a wife and family, I...
You're lucky, Chucky, you... OW!
What's the matter?
This sofa is a lethal weapon. The springs... are... the springs... what...?
What is it?
The...Silver...Mike...Award!
This guy LaPlante won an award?
"For Excellence in the Pursuit of Truth."
LaPlante!
Swiped your purse! While he was saving you? You gotta be kidding!
And sold it to Mister LaPlante, the fence, who's now trying to blackmail poor John.
He's gotta be a nut! He saves all those people and swipes a <u>purse</u>?
Because he was a <u>real</u> hero, Chucky. He was acting out of a deep instinctive decency, not out of some ego thing. He didn't expect the media to lionize him. He didn't expect a million dollar reward. He saved fiftyfour people because something inside him, some fundamental love for his fellow man, made him rush into that plane when "good sense" told him otherwise. He was willing to settle for some credit cards he sold to LaPlante.... For how much, LaPlante? A couple of bucks? Did you give him enough for a decent meal?
Uh, er... I...
You were saying you don't want a million dollars.
Well, I'm not entitled to a million dollars. I... I... didn't expect... I didn't expect...
All the adulation? It makes you feel like a fake, doesn't it?
Uh, actually... yes... I... should never have come forward and presented myself as 
Instant celebrity is overwhelming to anybody. <u>You've</u> known John Bubber all your life, you're used to him, you know you're the same human being you were before all the excitement. So you feel like a fraud...
Yes.
...unworthy of the adoration. We all do.
Is she... serious? A half a million dollars? In my behalf?
You're a celebrity, John. People are going to want to please you... or use you... or both.
Uh, no. But I, uh, wonder if you could up support... support a program to help the needy and...
John, I'm sure she could support just about anything. I think I'll see you to your room. A sort of bodyguard. Make sure no harm comes to you.
Uh, if you could, just, uh, support, uh, a small airfield...
It's been sometime since, uh, I received any, uh, of that kind of, uh... attention. A couple of... years.
Years? There are going to be lots of... opportunities.
Gale... you're a very nice person. I wouldn't want to hurt you... in any way...
I... I know that, John...
You... you think I saved your... life. I can't take advantage....
You did save my life! And it's <u>me</u>! I'd be taking advantage of <u>you</u>! I'm a reporter, John, an experienced professional... I...
I... no... I don't have the right... I...
No, I don't have the right. You're a <u>news</u> <u>story</u>!
Uh, right. A... news story.
I know the truth, John. I'm flying in some guys from your unit in Vietnam tomorrow. Interviewing them live on network hookup!
Vietnam!
Goodnight, John.
You were... very... inspiring.
A script! I thought we just walked through everything...
Read it. It'll be fine.
Now you help me up. Boy, you seem... taller. It must be psychological... now that I know you saved my life...
Gale! I can't go through with this! It's... it's all wrong!'
You're doing fine. You didn't actually lift me though. It was more like you supported me.
That's not what I mean...
There, like that. Kind of, uh, sexy. You can support me anytime, John.
Gale...
I just remembered. You were talking about bodybuilding and swearing.
Bodybuilding!
It's not right, Gale...
It's no big deal, it just <u>looks</u> better carrying me. Oh, you mean because I wasn't carrying my purse at the time.
Gale! This is for you. I want you to know I never meant to hurt you. This will explain everything.
John, I know all about it.
You do?
"A little mistake"!
No, John, you're too hard on yourself. I've got the creep here, the guy who's...
This guy, this "friend" your mother's seeing, he's a fireman, huh? He ever... spend the night, whatsisname?
Sometimes. His name's Elliot. He saved a guy's life one time. In a fire.
Oh yeah? A hero, huh? Was he in the 'Nam, this guy Elliot?
"The Nomm"? What's that?
It was this war. Viet Nam. Doesn't matter.
Were you in it? In the war?
You never saw that picture, huh?
What picture?
Me in my uniform. Used to be on the bookcase.
Are you gonna take me somewhere next weekend?
I'm working on that. It's just I got some business problems and... whatsa matter?
Here. Get off here.
Thanks. Thanks, pal.
Listen, buddy, I'm really enjoying this relationship we got going here. I been missing out on not knowing you better. Thing is, I got all this business stuff...
I could go to a movie Thursday night. 'Cause we don't have school on Friday.
Here we are. Yeah, that's a possibility. A movie. Now you gwan in, tell your mother I got you back on time. Point that out to her. She was always on my case for stuff like that. She's still like that, right?
Yeah. I'll see ya... dad.
Yeah, my dad's great. He took me to the zoo.
JOEY!
You remember where I said how I was gonna explain about life, buddy? Well, the thing about life is... it gets weird. See people are always gonna be talking to you about "truth." Everybody always knows what the truth is, like it was toilet paper or something and they got a supply in the closet. But what you learn as you get older is, there ain't no truth. All there is is bullshit . Layers of it. One layer of bullshit on top of another. So what you do in life, like when you get older, is you pick the layer of bullshit you prefer and that's <u>your</u> bullshit, so to speak. You got that?
Uh, no.
Mmmmm. Well, it's complicated. Maybe when you're older. Anyhow, what I'm gonna tell you here is in strict confidence, okay? It don't go no further. What happened is, you remember that night I was gonna take you to the movies an' it was raining like a sonofabitch, ..?
You!
Camera, Chucky. Are you Bernard LaPlante, sir? What is your relationship with John Bubber?
Turn that thing off.
How did you acquire this, Mister LaPlante?
How do ya think I got it, for Chrissake? Hey, put that thing down. This is my goddamn apartment, you can't just...
What's your scheme, Mister LaPlante? What are you forcing John Bubber to do? What are you  ?
For God's sake, tell him I'm on my way. Let's go, Chucky. A police escort is gonna pick us up en route. You too, LaPlante.
Me!
If you're not in the car in ten seconds, I'll have the cops pick you up.
The cops! What kinda bullshit is this? Is this America or  ?
Here! Here... ten, thirty, fifty bucks. How much have you got, Chucky? Give Mister LaPlante your money.
My fault! My fault! This nut case goes out on a ledge and it's my fault?
If anything happens to John BUbber, Mister LaPlante I'm going to see you prosecuted to the full extent of the law.
What, is everybody in love with this, bozo? I don't get this. What about...?
Yes, everybody <u>is</u> in love with John Bubber. The whole country, in fact. And they're not going to be happy if he jumps to his death because he was harassed by a lousy little moneygrubbing lowlife fence...
"Harassed." Cause I yelled at him when he's riding in his limo? The guy's a thief, he took my...
He had one <u>tiny</u>, uncharacteristic moment of weakness. That's not the same thing as a lifetime of petty crime...
Hey, lady, I got faults, I know I'm not perfect but I don't get this at all, your attitude. I saved your...
A lifetime of petty crime climaxed by your sleaziest accomplishment yet... blackmailing a national hero...
 saved your... whaaaaaaat? What? Blackmailing...?
You think I haven't figured it out? Just because the cops aren't on to you yet doesn't mean you're home free. I'm a veteran reporter. I've seen your kind before, the underbelly of crime.
Underbelly!
In all that smoke and fire, John had a moment of weakness. He'd been down and out, destitute, living in his car. It was just an impulse, stealing my purse.
All this is off the record, Chucky, because if John Bubber lives, Mister LaPlante is going to give him his assurance that there will be no more "misbehavior" on his part. What's more he's going to apologize.
I'm going to apologize to Bubber?
I could deny I had those credit cards on the plane with me, LaPlante...
Lie, you mean...
Well, maybe I wouldn't lie...but I could tell the story the way I did just now, so that people could understand that John is even more of a hero, and that you... you're the lowest thing that ever crawled. Your name will be synonymous with cynical opportunism and blackmail. You won't get a cent.
I got a kid, you know. I'm a person, for Chrissake.
Well, for your child's sake, show some decency then, rise above your sleazy instincts. You may have already killed him!
I snuck in.
You media people, you think you can just go anywhere you want, spy on people.
Listen, Mister LaPlante... uh, Bernie... Who... are... you?
Who am I? You're asking me? You're the big expert for Chrissake! I'm what? The "Scumbag," right? The sleazebag something or other, the blackmailer, the...
Was it you? In the plane? Who saved my life?
Me? Listen, I don't give no interviews. That was John Bubber. You wanna ask me questions, you could talk to my attorney, Miss O'Day.
Mister LaPlante... Bernie... I... just for a few moments... I want to be a human being, not a reporter. I'm somebody who was going to die in a burning plane and I looked up, and some man came out of the smoke, his face smeared with mud, and soot and... and he... saved my... life. Off the record. Was it you? Why would you deny it if it was? Because you took my purse? Why?
He waited for you three hours!
You are not gonna believe this, Evelyn! Absolutely fantastic! I'm on my way 
I am so tired of your bullshit, Bernie.
Ev, it's not my fault! I'm trying to tell you this incredible 
It's never your fault, Bernie! Never ever! You screwed up my life, now you're gonna screw up Joey's life, but you're never gonna accept responsibility for anyth
Is he here, your friend. The fireman?
He had an emergency call... a <u>real</u> emergency.
Why doncha let me in so we don't wake everybody in the neighborhood?
Willya lemme talk for Chrissake? I'm trying to tell you what happened. What happened is...
The same thing that always happens! You blew it! And this time you broke your son's heart instead of mine! He was so proud, looking forward to going to a movie with his father... and you let him down! Like you let everybody down, always! What did you do, take a mudbath?
That's what I'm trying to... to... okay, nevermind. Just lemme talk to Joey to... to apologize.
He's in bed! You're not gonna wake him and make him crazy, do you understand? He comes home from the zoo, he wants to know if Elliot's a "war hero" like you... he wants to know how many people you killed...
"Elliot"? The heroic goddamn fireman?
I had to explain your tendancy to "exaggerate", How you were actually "in country" all of two weeks and how you killed about as many people as the other clerktypists in your outfit, no more, no less...
Three weeks, Ev. I didn't tell him I killed anybody...
Maybe not,... but you let him believe it! And then I gotta explain about the homeless...
The homeless!
How not all of them own apartment complexes, how not all of them play the stock market, how not all of them rent babies when they're panhandling. He's ten years old, Bernie! Impressionable!
Listen, it's important, Ev, I gotta see him, I got my reasons, very goddamn important...
Use the phone, Bernie, call him tomorrow, he'd like to hear from you. Where's your other shoe? Never mind! I don't want to know. Some fantastic adventure, right? Something really crazy.
I was giving him some advice is all. Preparing him for life. You don't want him to grow up soft, Ev , it's tough out there, it's a goddamn jungle.
Back to the jungle, Bernie. Good night.
Bill, I...
DON'T SAY "BILL," BERNIE! DON'T SAY ONE WORD! DIDN'T I SAY "ONE WORD AND YOU'RE FIRED?"
I...
YOU KNOW WHY? BECAUSE IT'LL BE AN <u>EXCUSE</u>! IT'LL BE "BERNIE LAPLANTE EXCUSE NUMBER FOUR THOUSAND ONE HUNDRED AND SIX." NO, FOUR THOUSAND ONE HUNDRED AND TWELVE. THAT'S HOW MANY EXCUSES YOU HAVE GIVEN ME, I KEEP TRACK OF THEM ELECTRONICALLY. I HEARD THEM ALL, BERNIE.
Bill, I got some legal problems and I...
THAT'S IT! YOU TALKED! YOU'RE FIRED! OUTTA HERE! GET OUTTA HERE!
Bill, listen...
OUT! I TOLDJA. JESUS CHRIST, I GOT CUSTOMERS WAITING! AN' YOU WERE GONNA GO OUT LIKE THAT? AN' MEET THE PUBLIC IN STOCKINGFUCKINGFEET?
Bill, I got financial problems and...
I DON'T CARE ABOUT <u>YOUR</u> PROBLEMS, I'M GONNA THINK ABOUT <u>MY</u> PROBLEMS. <u>YOU'RE</u> ONE A MY PROBLEMS. GET OUT! OUT! OUT!
Some guys been looking for me, Chick? Spanish kinda guys.
Spanish kinda guys!
Business thing. Gimme a seven and seven, willya?
What is it, five days now I don't see you!
'Cause I'm up to my ass in shit is why. I'm broke, plus I got legal problems... Nobody was asking for me, huh?
Nope. Legal problems, you gotta have a good attorney.
My attorney, she's just outta law school, about a couple of years older than my kid, for Chrissake.
You gotta kid? How old's your kid?
Nine. I think. Maybe ten. Yeah, ten. Nice kid.
You got a ten year old attorney, Bernie?
I can't afford no better. My ex, she attached my pay check for child support payments. You looking for Bernie LaPlante by any chance?
I didn't even know you had a kid.
The thing about kids is, they're so... young! They don't know nothin' yet. When you're a kid, you think you're gonna grow up an' be a "wonderful person" instead of an asshole, like everybody else.
We're all assholes, Bernie?
When I was a kid, I thought I was gonna be this fantastic wonderful heroic human being.
Bernie, how'sa kid?
You don't wanna know, Chick, you don't wanna know. Those guys been in here?
You in business with those guys or what? I wouldn't want a problem for the establishment, Bern.
You couldn't have a problem, Chick, because I personally have got them all. I cornered the whole goddamn market. You wouldn't believe... Oh, how ya doin'...?
Hey, I don't blame you for bein' sore. I know I screwed up gettin' busted in here. You got a right to throw me out.
I'm not gonna throw you out, Bernie.
What wouldja say if I toldja I ran into a burning plane an' saved a buncha people, Chick, an' risked my goddamnlife?
You mean like Bubber? The hero?
Yeah, like that. Same thing.
Well... I mean... what am I supposed to say here, Bern? Is this a riddle or what?
I mean, if I said it, wouldja believe me? Ya wouldn't, would ya?
It's a character thing, Bernie. I mean, you wouldn't do it. No offense. Me neither. I mean, a guy like Bubber, he's a certain kinda guy. Heroic. You and me, we're not... heroic. It's not our nature. It don't mean we're bad or nothing. We're just not so inclined. What about it?
Nothin'.
I wouldn't be depressed about it, Bern. A guy don't have to be heroic to be a human being.
The thing is, Chick. I'm goin' down.
Down. You mean jail? For that credit card stuff? For Chrissake, Bernie, your lawyer...
Hey! Do I have a record? Have I ever done time? I mean I been arrested a few times, who hasn't? Parking tickets for Chrissake! Suspicion of stuff! Have I ever been convicted of anything?
Mister LaPlante...
Take a look at my employment record, you got my employment record there, right? You see any unemployment there, any welfare? I'm a taxpayer. They eat me alive, the tax people, they got taxes on everything, taxes, taxes, taxes, and forms! Taxes and forms so I can pay your goddamn salary, so you can sit there and write stuff, guys like me pay your wages...
Mister LaPlante...
Do I hit anybody? You see me shoot anybody? Hey, drugs! Do I sell drugs? Jesus, I don't belong in prison. I'm a family man.
Mister LaPlante...
Look, I got this kid. We got a goddamn relationship! I'm takin' him to a movie tonight! He worships me. If I go down what's this do to my son? I'm his goddamn role model for Christ sake!
What's going on? "Guilty"! What is this?
I got your bail continued.
Bail, for Chrissake! I'm innocent!
"Anticipation of incarceration"?
He means prison, Mr. LaPlante.
I know what he means. I'm not a prison kinda guy, Miss O'Day. I'm a goddamn working man for Chrissake! Maybe I "augment" my income a little with some "business deals," maybe summa the guys I sell to are crooks, how would I know, I'm not an investigator. You can't make it on a wage no more, not in this country.
I think our best course right now would be to focus on the Probation Officer's report...
He gives a good report and I walk?
We can hope. You still have your job, right?
Yeah, I been calling in sick. They think I got the flu.
And a son by your exwife? Joseph.
A son, yeah. What about him? Joey.
Are you pretty involved in his upbringing?
Involved! Christ! She attached my goddamn paycheck! Child support. Why do you think I can't afford a lawyer? You know what I mean. Why I got a court appointed lawyer instead of a, uh, more experienced...
I understand. How often do you see your son?
Often, uh.
How recently?
Uh, his birthday, uh, May. I think.
It's November.
She don't like me to see him. Says I'm a bad influence.
I think you should visit your son. And try and get your boss to write a note about your performance on the job. You need to create the impression of a responsible, decent citizen with familial responsibilities who happened to slip up once.
Uh, I know you're having financial difficulties, Mister LaPlante, but I wonder if... I mean, the money I loaned you...
Some of it. Right here. I got some of it. I'll get the rest as soon as I can.
"The Angel of Flight 104!" You're telling me you're the A...?
"Angel!" I didn't say "angel," that's a little strong. Listen, here's the thing, I gotta get over there to the TV station to collect my million bucks.
Mister LaPlante, I really want to help you, but crazy stories are only going to make it worse. The D.A. is asking your bail be set at twentyfive thousand dollars because you were arrested again while you were out on bail...
Twentyfive grand is peanuts! All you gotta do is get me outta here long enough to collect.
Whaddaya mean they didn't reduce the bail? If they didn't reduce it, how'dja spring me?
I took a loan on my car and my computer.
You whaaaaaat? You paid it? You gave a bondsman ten percent?
I was inspired by the hero, how he stuck his neck out for others, how he took a chance...
That fake <u>inspired</u> you to loan a guy who's been fired off his job <u>twentyfive hundred</u> goddamn dollars? A guy you say is probably gonna <u>do</u> <u>time</u>! You're s'posed to be an <u>attorney</u> for Chrissake! You're s'posed to have <u>good judgment</u>!
Well, as you like to point out, Mister LaPlante, I'm relatively inexperienced. My naivete may have worked to your benefit in this instance.
Listen, now that I owe you twentyfive hundred bucks plus, how about loaning me twenty for cab fare?
So you can call me "naive," Mister LaPlante.
Hey, you could call me "Bernie," forget the "Mister LaPlante" stuff. You are naive.
I read the probation report. It's not good. I think you're going... going to prison, Mister... Bernie. I know that scares you but..
TAXI! HEY, TAXI! Well, at least I'm gonna get my goddamn million bucks. TAXI FOR CHRISSAKE!
I seen on the TV where that dogooder asshole's gonna go visit sick kids at threethirty. Children's Hospital, on the double.
You mean John Bubber?
And you pulled people out? You're... a hero.
Nah, I fucked it up. I was tryin' to impress this kid, don't ask me why. I was gonna rescue his old man, but I couldn't find the poor bastard. He musta blew up. I got the hell outta there. I didn't have the nerve to face the kid.
A lotta people wouldn't have tried. It was pretty brave even trying...
Try stupid.
You got a drinking problem or what?
I sell them at the recycling center. Gives me a little for gas and food.
Looks like you live in here, for Chrissake!
In bad weather, yeah. Mostly I camp out in the woods. I thought maybe you were down on your luck too when I picked you up.
You should give it to someone with only one leg.
One leg! Like the Red Cross or something?
I know a guy who only has one leg.
Sell it to him. You get a couple bucks, it pays for the ride. I got a job, nice apartment. I do okay.
They interview you or anything? At the plane crash?
Hey, do I look crazy? I don't go for that shit... interviews, media. They're manipulators. "Keep a low profile," that's my motto.
Hey, Bubber, c'mere! I gotta talk to you, buddy.
LaPlante!
Come on, John, don't be an asshole. I don't like heights.
I just wanna talk with you for a minute. Then you can jump. You can jump twice for all I care.
Talk from there. You can talk from there.
In private. They got cameras and alla that crap in there. Microphones.
That's for Ga... Ms. Gayley.
What am I, a goddamn postman? I'm way the fuck up here, I'm scared a heights, and you want me to deliver a letter? Put a stamp on it for Chrissake!
That's close enough. It's a confession. The truth. Jesus, I'm sorry, LaPlante. I had the shoe, you said you didn't want, publicity because of your legal problems.
I don't recall saying I didn't want a million bucks...
I never really thought they'd go for it. And then... you didn't come forward, they investigated my war record... I kept expecting you to show up and expose me...
I was in the can, for Chrissake.
The bathroom! For two days?
Jail! Listen, Bubber... This is crazy. We could fall off of here.
You should go in. You're risking your life again...
I'm beginning to... be aware of that, John. Listen, I'm not gonna do nothing heroic here, you can trust me on that, buddy. Whaddaya say we just sit down for a while. I don't have no tricks, I'm not that smart. You could, like, rest up for the jump.
What have I done? I was dirt poor and useless... but I was honest.
Lighten up, John. You think <u>you</u> got problems for Chrissake?
You stole her purse! While you were saving her?
What's the big deal? You decided to pretend you were me. A little moment of weakness, right? So I sorta swiped her purse. I got feet of clay too, bUddy.
And she thinks you're blackmailing me?
Right.
Which don't sound like such a bad goddamn idea, John.
Huh? Whadda you mean?
Well, we gotta work this thing out, John. It's a goddamn mess an' I'm halfway to doing serious time in the joint an' the TV lady's so stuck on you she don't want it to come out you stole her purse because it might break the heart of millions. Looka those maniacs, willya? They love you, for Chrissake!
I don't need to be a hero, LaPlante, but I can't face people... the looks in their eyes... after the trust they gave me!
Great! You make this big goddamn mess, then ya jump. Beautiful! Listen, John, I was there at the hospital today, I seen you with those little bastards .
It was you! I thought I heard...
I'm not saying I hate sick people or anything but I hate being <u>around</u> them if you know what I mean. There <u>you</u> go, you <u>inspire</u> this kid to <u>live</u>. I probably woulda vomited on him.
Allen? He... he's okay?
You got those people out of the plane, LaPlante, not me.
You <u>woulda</u> gone in there, you wouldn'ta thought twice... Trust me on that, that's the kinda guy you are. For a guy like me, it's a momentary loss of sanity. I wasn't thinking clearly. Listen, I'm no hero, John. I just want some dough and maybe a little favor. How much didja spend already on all that dogooder bullshit? You didn't spend it <u>all</u> didja?
Well, I donated a lot to different causes, uh... La...
Bernie. Call me Bernie.
but there's a lot of it still left, uh, Bernie. Almost half.
You got it? Four year scholarship to a top college, plus Medical School or Law School or whatever Joey wants; pay off the $2,500 to my attorney, plus pay her fee in full, plus my annual consulting fee...
And give a deposition to the jUdge.
Listen, John, you better double my attorney's fee. She's very inexperienced, but she done a great job for me. And give her your autograph. She thinks you're some kinda holy man.
On the deposition for the jUdge, Bernie... I mean there's no way I can promise anything. I can't tell him what we're up to...
You'll tell him I talked you out of jumping, right? Just keep me outta prison.
I... I'll do the best I can, Bernie.
That's good enough for me. You better take that "letter" there and get rid of it.
I dunno. It was... an impulse. Me, wearing my good shoes.
Same with me, pretending I was you. An impulse. Why not? I had this shoe.
There was this kid there saying, "Go in there and save my father, mister." And I'm thinking about my boy Joey and this goddamn fireman my wife's seeing. It was like I was supposed to save myself.
Yeah, and with me it was like I was supposed to pretend the shoe was mine.
So now you gotta wear it, you poor bastard. Everyday you gotta be everybody's hero. People watching you all the time. Waiting for you to make... a slip. Slip up.
Looking... good, partner. Hang in there.
Yyou're a ggod damn saint, John.
... knock on my door, I'm a total insomniac.
No, thanks I've got a... a date tonight
Tawny.
Whew. You bounce right back don't you?
What do you mean?
Last week...
The car accident? Any of this ringing a bell?
It's not that kind of date.
Hey even if it is more power to ya. Alrighty then. Have a good time.
Hey. Can I borrow something?
Uh... sure, Tawny... what?
You.
Tawny? What's what are you doing?
YOU!
You okay?
I'm, uh, not sure... Feeling kind of weird actually.
Really?
I'm kinda feeling nuts myself!
I've never said this to a woman before but can't we talk a little bit before grabbing at each other?
God. Sometimes you can be such an animal. Other times you are the ultimate tease...
Wow. That's good. Lots of capers, huh?
For starters. It's also got fennel, asparagus, olives, some more of mother nature's aphrodisiacs... Back in college, me and my roommates used to call it hard on stew.
If you ever smelled this coming from our dorm room, you knew one of us was in there getting laid.
You must have been very proud of yourselves...
It's getting hot in here.
Tawny I think I'm going to be sick.
Well now there's a compliment.
Whoa, I have serious space issues, dude. What do you want?
I... think we need to talk, there's something really strange going on...
Hey you're the guy from down the hall.
Come on, quit fucking around. Listen it's about... what we did together last night.
WHAT?!
Dreams?
I was going to say dimensions. But I guess technically they are dreams.
You should always listen to your subconscious. It's trying to tell you something about your waking life.
Trevor your body has been completely healed. All the nerve endings have repaired themselves. If there is any pain in your head it's... in your head.
Jeez it's getting awful crowded in there.
My teacher told me once there's a puncture point on your body that can lock your soul within it, even after you're dead. So that when you die you're trapped inside your body, watching it corrode for all eternity.
Look, whatever your Marharagi, told you, forget. You've got to get this fuckin pain to stop.
It was an analogy. Your soul is locked up inside you. You need to free it Trevor. You've blocked it from the healing process. That's what we need to do now. Heal your soul. And to do that I you have to give in utterly and without any hesitation or doubt. Do you know what I mean by giving in? It's about trust. Do you trust me implicitly?
I don't even know what's real and what isn't how can I trust anyone?
You can trust me. Your wife is dead and you need to move past that. And the only way to move past something completely is to go straight through it, not around it. Surrender yourself to your wife's death. Let it chew you up and spit you back out on the other side. It's the only way you can become whole again.
Are you ready?
I surrender...
Wait... what the hell is this...
Surrender yourself... surrender yourself...
I don't know what I'm doing here. I'm not even Catholic. I just had to tell somebody. It's like, ever since my wife died I don't know what I've actually done or what I've imagined. But I do know if one tenth of what's happening to me is reality... I've done some really awful things in my life. Things that I've... I guess I've blocked out...
What things do you think you've done?
Wow. Let's see. So many sins so little time. For starters I was responsible for the death my wife who by the way was carrying my unborn child. That was so I could collect her eight million dollar estate. I think I killed several women I was having mindless sex with behind her back.
But I saw these women. I saw their mutilated bodies. I saw their ghosts. I just know it happened I can feel it...
All you've got is the here and the now Trevor. That's all anyone really has. Maybe this will make things easier to understand. A man goes to sleep every night and has recurring dream that he's a butterfly. In time he begins to wonder if he might actually be a butterfly who dreams he's a man. And at the end of the day does it even matter? All these events you're describing. How can you be sure any of them really happened?
But that's what I need. To be sure... to be absolutely sure...
Shh. It's okay son. There is but one truth. One thing you can be absolutely sure of. And that thing is this:
Poor Trevor.
This game is over do you hear me?
I hear everything. And soon you will know everything. More than you ever wanted I can guarantee that. But I want you to think for a minute first. Think about all you've seen. All the clues you've been given.
How is our little student doing? Has he learned his lesson yet?
I don't know who you are or what you want. I just want to know what's under that sheet...
Use your mind for something other than numbers dear Trevor. Think about people for a change. People other than yourself. Like the women you slept with behind your wife's back. You were always so confident you had covered your tracks. Always confident your wife actually believed your fervent denials? Part of you must have known she would find out.
What's under that sheet...?
You probably don't remember the night we played. Your first year as husband and wife.
Do you know where you are?
Ambulance.
We're just gonna take some blood here.
Okay how many fingers am I holding up?
Two.
Can you follow them?
You mean... when the car went off the bridge?
Wow you are out of it.
Least let me finish will ya? Got one puff left.
I don't work here.
Music to my ears.
Hey buddy!
... but I'm starting to think I was... I was going to...
Hey buddy!
What do you want?!
Who the hell are you talking to?
Look Larry I know you never thought too much of me. And I know this all sounds a little fucked up.
A little? Try unbelievably.
I swear these guys are like playing mindgames with me. I think they got a hold of my email address at work too.
Trevor barring the more outrageous aspects of your claim you are not the only widower the police have questioned when foul play is suspected.
Hey ninety five point three percent of all murders are committed by either a spouse, a direct relative or a close friend that's common knowledge. But this wasn't murder it was an accident
And as far as hiding a body goes? I find it hard to believe even the dirtiest of cops would keep a victim's remains hidden simply to get someone to confess. It's absolutely preposterous. Now I'm not saying I don't believe you, I'm....ambiguous. There's quite alot of money behind all this.
How much do I stand to inherit if Kirsty is presumed dead?
What happens if I'm convicted of Kirsty's murder?
Well they'd have to prove it in a court of law for one thing
Please Larry. Pretend you like me and humor me.
Seeing you were her sole benefactor, and I'm the executive of the will, Kirsty's entire estate would have to be donated to the city.
Hello? City? Cops? It's a fucking conspiracy!
Pardon my glibness Trevor but you sound like a raving lunatic. The next time you seek counsel it should be of the psychiatric type. You're obviously on the verge of some nervous collapse.
Thanks for your concern Larry. And fuck you too.
Thanks for coming down Mr. Gooding. Has your head healed okay by now?
Where's my wife?
Okay then. Here's the scoop.
What evidence?
For one thing there were no skid marks on that bridge, the tires were all intact, from what we could tell, nothing wrong internally with the vehicle either. Like the car had been driven off the bridge intentionally.
It should all in the report. I told you guys everything. She was giving birth in the fucking car. She grabbed the wheel and I lost control.
I did read that, yes. What hospital were you going to? I mean the Lodovico Street Bridge isn't exactly on the way to Mercy General.
Sorry I'm in your seat aren't I?
No please make yourself at home.
I thought you loved games.
I'll just stay out of this conversation until you come out and tell me why you've disrupted me at work.
You and your wife were playing a game shortly before you got into that car accident weren't you?
Where is she? Where is my wife?
Sorry to take up your time like that Trevor. Don't work too hard. Oh, before I forget. I talked your neighbor out of pressing charges.
What?
The whackjob in the black lipstick who lives down the hall? She wanted you arrested for harassment. I told her to chill out and smoke a joint. I'd look the other way as long as she did you know?
Thanks.
We're all here for you Trevor.
Morgue...?
That's right Trevor. The timing was impeccable wasn't it? It's been eight months two weeks and three days but we finally found the body. Just need you to ID it for us.
Twenty one. Why do we have to do this now Kirsty?
Shut up and play darling. Your turn.
Five hundred ninety two thousand seven hundred and four.
Uh... eighty two?
Eighty four.
You win! Okay pull over.
But... I thought...
If what I've heard is true this could be the last time for a long long time. Besides we've got a whole seven minutes before the next one. Clock's ticking. Ticktock...
What isn't wrong? Why are you doing this anyway?
I'm... I'm doing a very special thing here. And you can't even ... respond?
Just concentrate on the task at hand please. Listen to me. You should be giving ME this lecture.
You've been cheating on me haven't you?
Yes I had a quickie with the neighbor during your last contraction.
Roughly two thirds of married men who cheat start during the eighth month of their wives' first pregnancy.
Oh my God. It's coming out.
What?
THE BABY IS COMING OUT! I CAN FEEL IT! SONOFABITCH IT HURTS!! AAAGGGGHHH!!!
OH MY GOD TREVOR! It hurts!! oh my God, Oh my God. Trevor, It's coming out.
This isn't happening.
How does feel to be Mr. Kirsty Hughes for a whole year.
In a word? Lucrative.
The best business decision if you ever made I'll bet.
Enjoyable too. The merger never even felt work for one second.
You know what the family lawyer told me one our wedding day?
What?
Never to put you in my will.
Really? Why?
But you had more wisdom than to listen to a false prophet
There is no wisdom, no insight, no plan
And besides, I thought, to hell with it... it's okay if you only married me for my money.
Really, why's that?
I only married you for your body.
Happy Anniversary, Mrs. Gooding.
For me? Trevor! How romantic! Come here, you.
Kirsty... Kirsty?
It's okay it was just a nightmare that's all.
You're alive...
Yes. Now go back to sleep. You're driving the rest of the way to gramma's remember?
Trevor I've decided we have got to agree on a name before we reach my mother's. This poor kid's going to be starting preschool as student x if we don't make up our minds. So, I've been thinking, what about Daisy?
It's perfect.
Come on speak up, Gooding, I'm trying to run a business here. I can't have people flipping out in the break room when they should be slaving away at their desks.
Sorry I just kind of... spaced for a second there.
Get back here, junior bean counter. This is your supervisor speaking.
Please, Gwen. You're you're all over me.
How do you think you got this job, cock? Mmm. I'm still tingling all over from our little midnight swim.
What's wrong, Trev?
Nothing, look. Gwen I really like you
And it shows. Least it did last night at the quarry. In a big way.
YOU'RE giving ME a speeding ticket? Mr. Mario Andretti himself?
Gwen, my wife's dead.
Oh I see. That again. Trevor? I realize it must be hard. But Christ how long does it take someone to move on?
That was cold...
No, making another woman compete with someone who's been dead eight months. That's cold.
Good boy. Where's is it?
What?
Our little toy. You usually have it up and running by now.
Do I really want to know what you're talking about?
What did you just say?
I said she's been missing for
No. No you said HER BODY's been missing.
What's the difference?
Last time anybody saw this woman she was alive. You seem to certain she's dead.
I saw her drowning inside the car, detective.
You could say that.
Zero's a number right?
As in one minus one equals zero yes. Where are you going with this?
How many zeros was your wife worth?
Now I want you to tell me what you remember happening in your own words exactly the way you told Detective Lange. But this time I want you to make one small adjustment.
What's that?
Hello I'm Dr...
Ambrose. I know.
Have we met?
I've been in here before.
Take no offense Trevor. I see many patients a day and have an awful memory.
Why don't you relax for the next couple of hours? Barring any relapses you should be able to go home after that.
Where's Allison?
Who's Allison?
Allison Dormere. Your intern.
Trevor what is the metric probability of you getting any work done at all today?
Hey Bret. Christ, my head feels like a split coconut.
Dude there is a track on the carpet between here and the bathroom. It was made by your ass. You've been dragging it all fucking week. What happened to you yesterday?
Give me a break. I checked back into the hospital amongst other things.
Hospital? You haven't been to the hospital since uh...
Since what?
Look never mind. Just get some numbers going any numbers at all will due. The hills have eyes remember?
Must be nice.
What?
Getting paid for doing shit.
The boss won't notice me doing a bad job because I'm not. Even if the boss thought I was slacking I'd know right away.
Yeah, how's that?
I have my connections
Really? Do tell.
Gwen.
GWEN?
I crap you not. She was all over me yesterday in the break room. And she was a total machine last night too.
You were supposed to have a date with Gwen last night? GWEN DEARDON? The supervisor?
Serious as a heart attack my friend. I think she literally fucked me brains out.
Hey if you're not doing anything I'd like to buy you a beer after work. Be just like old times.
What's the occasion?
I quit. Today's my last day.
I've got a better offer. More time off. A sort of career shift, more in the engineering line of work.
How much time off?
As much as he feels like. Its a much more pleasurable line of work.
So you're just packing it up just like that?
Almost that fast. I got a few loose ends to tie up first. Came into a shitload of money recently. I've always wanted to go to take a trip. We're just gonna walk into the airport and decide right then and there.
Yeah? You and who else?
Someone special.
Bret... what the fuck...?
Tonight was supposed to be the night, Trevor. Remember? I couldn't believe you went through five dart games and didn't even joke about it.
Bret. What the hell is going on?
We were gonna be millionaires you said. Nobody'd suspect a thing. I had never even met her. No connection. Then you went and had that fucking car accident.
Bret you are making no sense whatsoever.
I followed her Trevor. I got to know her life. And what a boring one it was. Six a.m. gym, nine a.m. trendy coffee shop, noon bookstore, one soap operas, four o'clock news, five wait for Trevor to come home. And wait and wait and wait. Nine o'clock get ready for bed.
Are you a dream too?
Still hallucinating as well. Hmm...
What just happened to me anyway? It looked like a dream but it felt like reality.
It's the morphine Trevor. You're on so much of it, you could be asleep and dreaming even with your eyes wide open.
Where's Kirsty? Where's my wife?
Your wife...?
What's happening to me? What are you doing?
You came in for your EEG. You fell asleep and well, I took the liberty of...I'm sorry. You looked like a wreck Trevor.
Well? What do you say Trevor? Que pasa?
Let me see. Oh yeah. My head feels like it's going through a meat grinder. I'm not sure if I'm dreaming or...
That `poor me' attitude doesn't suit you Trevor. Listen, I don't mean to sound like Pollyanna but things could be worse. There's one good thing about coming so near to the end of ones life. Everything is new and exciting, like your seeing it for the first time. You might see things a litlle differently from now on.
Your insight is enlightening.
No wisdom, no insight, no plan.
Allison? Why can't remember what happened to my wife? Is it something I'm on that's... that's making me forget?
Easy there Trevor. You need to relax.
No I need to remember. Look whatever it is take me off it. I can handle pain. I can't handle not knowing...
You need to get better first Trevor. Way better. It's okay to miss somebody. It's okay to still love someone after they're gone. But you've got to quit blaming yourself okay...? Okay?
These hallucinations I'm having. I think they're more like memories coming back to me in a strange way.
Well that's not necessarily a bad thing is it?
If they're blocked memories... I'm starting to realize the reason why I blocked them out. Allison I think I really... screwed everything up.
Shh. Don't blame yourself Trevor. Please.
I miss her. I miss my wife.
Well Trevor? What have you got to say for yourself? Que pasa?
Allison we have GOT to talk about this medication you've got me on.
I'm all over it.
You're one tough cookie, Trevor Gooding. You keep coming back to your corner for a quick fix up then go right back out into the ring for another round.
Some call it resilience. Others, stupidity.
Of course, yes.
The way you just looked at me...
I know, my bedside manner's horrendous.
So, I'm done. Thats it for today?
All finished.
Hint. It's not a geographical location.
I'm stumped.
It's inside a moving car.
Bull...
I've got numbers to back me up. Over the course of one year more Americans die in car accidents than did during the entire span of World War II.
Okay so... what's the safest place?
Millions of people around the world get on busses every day. When was the last time you heard of anybody anywhere dying on a public transit bus?
Okay Mr. Statistics I've got one for you. What's the most common cause of death for adults over the age of eighteen?
Please. Heart attack. That was easy street.
Second most common?
Skin cancer.
Eighty third most common.
Pitbull attacks.
You just made that up.
We startred off to be. She was, I guess I was. I just sort of....butchered up the relationship somehow. Bad choice of words.
I understand, I think. Other women?
Yeah. It's like I was a different guy then I am today. I can't remember that guy. I see these women, they think I'm someone else, and I'm not that guy anymore. I'm not sure who Kristy knew.
You were unfaithful, it sounds like your confessing.
I did more then that.
Lucky for us these chairs happened to be here.
Oh I knew about the chairs already. This is where the emphysema patients come to sneak cigarettes.
Don't tell me. Kirsty used to smoke?
No. She just would have loved it up here... Allison when I was under... did I ever talk?
Sure plenty of times.
Well?
Trevor if someone is talking from a sleep state they are obviously dreaming. So practically everything say is going to sound strange.
Did I ever talk about the accident?
No.
Did I ever talk about Kirsty?
No. But at one point you did repeat something though. A phrase. You must have been having this recurring dream, you just kept saying this one thing over and over
What was it?
Sorry.
If it makes you feel better that took every ounce of self control I had. Trevor, I never date patients.
I understand... I won't
No you don't understand. That's why I've been fighting to get you better. So you wouldn't be a patient anymore.
Why didn't you tell me sooner? I would have switched doctors!
Just get better okay?
Allison I think I did some very, very bad things. I mean very bad.
Trevor things like this happen to people who experience temporary memory loss. Everybody does things they regret. You just couldn't remember doing these things and now you are so it's a shock to the system. I'm telling you. You will never get better if you keep blaming yourself for your wife's death.
Maybe I wasn't responsible for the car accident...
Mummy!
Mummy!
She's terribly hurt . . .
Somebody's got to help us!
0h, God . . . I'm so sorry!
It doesn't matter.
Of course it matters! It's Mario!
I think I'm dying . . .
Don't . . . please! Please, don't!
I wish James would do a religious picture . . . he'd be perfect as Jesus!
Daddy says the Bible's a load of bunkum!
But, we're all going to Heaven!
I'm not! I'm going to the Fourth World! It's like Heaven, only better because there aren't any Christians.
James will be there . . . and Mario! Only they'll be saints.
Saint Mario!
To be known as He!
He . . .
Him.
Him . . .
This.
This . . .
That.
That . . .
He flings open the door and launches himself at the bed, ravishing her!
God, yes!
What?
It's so beautiful!
What???
I shall call him Diello.
You're such an incredible woman.
I couldn't have done it without you, Charles.
You'll never guess what's happened!!
What??
John has fallen in love with me!
That idiot boarder?
How do you know? Did he tell you?
Well . . . no. But it's so obvious.
I think I'm going crazy.
No, you're not, Ginait's everybody else who is bonkers!
Let's go overseas . . .
You mean travel by ourselves?
Stay still or they'll be blurry . . .
Hurry up! I'm freezing!
Just a couple more . . .
I know, I'll lean forward and show more cleavage!
I'm sure they'll notice things missing.
They'll blame the bloody housekeeper. She nicks stuff all the times!
This lot's got to be worth 50 quid!
I can try my father's safe. I'm sure I can get the keys to his office.
That's great! We'll have the fare in no time!
I thought he was supposed to be terribly ill.
That was what we were led to believe . . .
Poor Mother was completely taken in.
Do you think Bloody Bill's trying to get into her draws?
Too right . . . but he doesn't have a show! Nobody gets into Mother's draws except Daddy!
Poor Father . . .
Don't worry, Gina! Mummy and Daddy love each other.
But that's not true! I've got one.
I need my sodding parents' consent.
I'm coming with you.
Yes . . .
I know what to do about mother.
Mummy!
Mummy!
Let's go upstairs, Deborah. I wrote the last 10 pages of my opera last night.
All right, then.
It's a threeact story with a tragic end.
Your mother is a rather miserable woman . . . isn't she?
I thought for hours about whether Carmelita should accept Bernard's marriage proposal . . .
I think she knows what's going to happen . . . she doesn't appear to bear us any grudge!
Bye, Dad.
Goodbye, Mr. Rieper.
Isn't it beautiful!
Let's go for a walk down here . . . come on, Mummy!
And so, in a blazing fury, Charles runs Lancelot Trelawney through with his sword . . . leaving Deborah free to accept Charles's proposal of marriage!
and HERBERT exchange a glance. HONORA smiles at Juliet.
I've heard your mother on 3YA. The Woman's Session has lots of lively debate.
Well, actually, Mummy's left that programme now . . she's far too busy with The Marriage Guidance Council.
I wouldn't want my private business being discussed with a complete stranger!
Oh, no . . . Mummy's awfully good at it.
I'm so happy to see you!
hurries over.
It's best not to get too close. Juliet's still not a hundred percent. Hello, Juliet! We've bought you some fruit.
Thank you so much!
That's coming along well!
I'm the Matron's favourite patient and she's shown me her special stitch!
I'm saving them for a rainy day.
gives her a sympathetic look.
I know it's hard for you being in here, but it is for the good of your health.
They sent me off to the Bahamas "for the good of my health." They sent me to the Bay of bloody Islands "for the good of my health."
looks startled at the outburst.
I'm sorry, Mrs. Rieper. I'm feeling quite fatigued.
We don't want to tire you out, dear.
stands and picks up her handbag. Pauline stands and Juliet grabs her hand.
Can't you stay a bit longer, Paul?
Hello!
Hello, Juliet. Juliet take off her jacket.
Ohwhat a nice outfit!
Thank you. I bought it especially, Mrs. Rieper.
is bending down, pulling a tray of sausage rolls into the oven. Both girls look at HONORA silently.
turns around and Juliet presents her with a brown paper bag.
Fruit.
Oh! I'll pop them in a bowl.
But you're not fat, Mrs. Rieper!
I put on a lot of weight over Christmas.
Hello!
Well? Tell us! How'd it go?
Got an A, Mum!
glows with pride. STEVE is emptying his pockets on the bench. HONORA pats STEVE's hand.
He's the manager!
leads a young manJOHNinto the dining room.
I spent a wretched night. It would be wonderful if I could get tuberculosis, too.
comes in with a breakfast tray: bacon and eggs, tea and toast.
Come on, sit up.
I'm not hungry.
You've got to eat, Yvonne. You hardly touched our dinner. I'm not having you falling ill.
I just want to be on my own for a while.
starts to cut up a slice of bacon and offers it to Pauline.
You may have forgotten that you were once a very sick little girl, but I haven't!
holds up a loaded fork. Pauline reluctantly takes it.
Do you think Juliet could stay here while her parents are away?
Juliet's infectious . . . she'll be going to hospital.
But she'll have no one to look after her!
Her parents won't be going overseas now . . . they'll have to cancel their trip. Don't worry about Juliet.
I had a nasty foreboding feeling at first, but now I realise my crime was too frightful for an ordinary lecture.
From now on, you're sleeping in the house, where we can keep an eye on you.
If you think for one minute that your father and I will tolerate this sort of behaviour, you've got another thing coming! You're only 14!!! You're a child! What on earth's the matter with you, Yvonne? You know what can happen with boys . . . Don't you have any selfrespect?
sighs.
Can I go now?
grabs Pauline by the shoulders.
My God, what a disgrace you are! You shame me, you shame the family. You're nothing but a cheap little tart!
Well, I guess I take after you then!
whirls around and slaps Pauline on the cheek.
You ran off with Dad when you were only 17! Nana Parker told me!
steps back.
My name is Gina!
It's a letter from the school . . . from Miss Stewart.
What does old Stew want?
She says the standard of your work is slipping. At this rate she doesn't think you'll get School Certificate.
Who cares!
I care . . . your father cares . . . we want you to have a good education.
I'm educating myself!
You're failing English . . . you used to be top of the class PAULINE I'm doing my own writing!
snatches up an exercise book from a large pile.
These stories are not going to get you School Certificate! You don't seriously think anyone's going to publish them?
What do you know? You wouldn't know the first thing about writing. You're the most ignorant person I've ever met!
is very angry.
You're rude . . . rude and insolent! I don't see why I should keep a horrid child like you at school a minute longer.
I don't wanna be in bloody school!
All right! You go out there and get a job and you damn well pay your own way!
I'm bloody dressing as fast as I can, for God's sake!
Open this door!
The Hulmes will look after me. They want me to live with them!
Don't be so ridiculous. You're our daughter, you belong here with us.
I belong with Deborah! We're going to South Africa!
You're not going anywhere. You're 15 years old!!
You have to let me go!
stands and walks toward the door.
I felt thoroughly depressed and even quite seriously considered committing suicide. Life seems so much not worth the living, death such an easy way out.
Love, you can still write to each other.
I bet he pitches a tent in the middle of their bedroom, and they have to pretend to be on some mountain!
That's enough, Yvonne!
You have it.
Oh, no. I'm watching my figure.
Look, Mother!
looks down at the ground in front of her.
Let's have 'em now, while they're fresh, eh, Nora?
playfully shoves his hand away.
I'll think you'll find our Mr. Bayliss is not keen on seafood. I've got lamb chops in the 'frigerator.
sighs as HONORA puts the frying pan on the stove.
Come on! Sausage rolls.
Come on through.
and Pauline hurriedly work together, setting out plates and cutlery.
Look who I've found!
whips off her pinny as HERBERT leads Juliet into the dining room.
I've booked you in for a chest Xray . . . just to be on the safe side.
pops a couple more potatoes on Pauline's plate. HERBERT glances at Pauline.
Thought I'd have a go at building the birdhouse on Saturday . . . anyone want to give me a hand?
Yvonne hasn't been herself, either. Locking herself away in her room . . . endlessly writing.
sits down next to Honora, glass of sherry in hand.
No arguments there, Dr. Hulme! All that time inside working on those novels of theirs. They don't get fresh air or exercise!
frowns at Henry.
waves a pair of new socks around. The family laughing and talking. Pauline is not participating. She is leaning back, looking morose. HONORA looks at her with concern.
Is it hurting, dear?
is chopping firewood in the back garden. HONORA approaches him.
I've just had Hilda Hulme on the phone.
What now?
She says Juliet's in a terrible state . . .
accompanies Hilda into the hallway.
breaks down into heavy sobs.
I'd better be getting back. Bye, love.
pulls his coat on. HONORA gives him a peck cheek.
Bye.
Have a nice outing, you lot.
wanders out. HONORA turns to Pauline and Juliet.
Well . . . I better make myself a bit more presentable.
Mummy has a special technique called "Deep Therapy."
What's that?
I'm not sure . . . but it's proving to be very popular!
I adore anything to do with the arts.
We're pretty handy with model making, too, eh?
I've never cottoned on to Plasticine like you girls, but I enjoy making things out of wood.
Are you a carpenter, Mr. Rieper? HERBERT shakes his head.
I work at Dennis Brothers Fish Supply.
This story of yoursmaybe the school newspaper will print it when it's finished.
Actually, Mr. Rieper . . . it's a novel, and we'll be sending it to New York. That's where all the big publishing houses are based.
Is that a fact! You'd better put me name down for an advance copy!
Heather Chandler, Kurt Kelly, and Rupert "Ram" Sweeney all had good looks and popularity, but there's one thing they didn't have: Values, Ambition, and Hope.
That's three things.
It rained everyday of my Maui vacation, but hey, I didn't kill myself. I'm Whitney James, Commentary.
I got a confession to make. My name used to be Heather, too.
But my name's not...
People just don't take the name Heather seriously. They should, shouldn't they?
I'm so sorry. I was led to believe there were going to be different kinds of social and psychological types at this gathering.
Oh, I was scared of the same thing, Heather. The minute you try to deal with the actual teenagers who have contemplated suicide you're stepping into quicksand. Quicksand filled with bad complexions, bad grades, bad parents, bad drugs, and all sorts of doody nobody wants to hear let alone bend down to clean up.
The world wants winners, I guess. Not people stained with loserness.
Stained with loserness. Oh, I like it. Can I use that. It'd be dynamite on interoffice memoranda.
It's all yours, Heather. Now if you'll excuse me, I'm going to go throw up.
Sure. Ciao.
Dear Veronica, Heather was your soulmate.....Share.
Heather was cool, but cruel. The good looks and bad manners gave her power, but it could not give her happiness.
Everyone take their places on the stage! Isn't this thrilling?!
But Ms. Fleming, it's just not right.
What, the wine? I realize you're all under 21, but it seemed like such a perfect touch. Could we get some more light up here?
Veronica! J.D. told me you committed suicide last night!
Where is he? Where's J.D.?
We have to talk. Whether to kill yourself is one of the most important decisions a teenager has to make.
Get a job.
Hey kid, isn't the prom coming up?
I guess.
Any contestants worth mentioning?
May<u>be</u>. There's kind of a dark horse now in the running.
You two....
Great pate, but I'm going to have to motor if I want to be ready for the party tonight.
Terrible thing. So will we get to meet this dark horse prom contender?
May<u>be</u>.
You two....
Greate pate, but I'm going to have to motor if I want to be ready for the funeral tomorrow.
How was the funeral?
Superb.
Turn that back on!
This condescending junk makes suicide seem like a cool thing to do. Hey kids, make your parents and teachers feel like shit! Get the respect in death you'll never get in life.
Everybody cares for youth but nobody cares about Joey Blow. When that news reporter gets home he'll scream at his son for not mowing the lawn in the right pattern.
I'm lost. You don't get enough attention, you get too much attention. Which is it? Where are your shoes?
All we want is to be treated like human beings, not like guinea pigs to be experimented on and not like bunny rabbits to be patronized.
Who does that new kid think he is with that coat? Bo Diddley?
Veronica is into his act. No doubt.
Let's kick his ass.
Shit, we're seniors, Ram. Too old for that crap. Let's give him a scare though.
You going to eat this?
What did your <u>boyfriend</u> say when you told him you were moving to Sherwood, Ohio?
Answer him dick!
Hey Ram, doesn't this cafeteria have a No Fags Allowed Rule?
We on tonight man?
I still got to talk to Heather, dude. Weird funeral, huh?
Pretty weird.
That pudwapper just stepped on my foot.
Let's kick his ass.
Cool off, we're seniors.
Goddamn Geek!
Is it sleeping, dude?
I think so, man.
Then get over on my side. Oh shit, cowtipping is the fucking greatest.
Punch it in!
Sex and Drugs and HBO is all I ever need! Whoa! Can you hear me! Hello Tokyo! I said Sex and Drugs and...
Shut the fuck up, all right.
Lighten up, dude. In those woods is some of the finest pussy in the school and we don't even have to buy it a hamburger and a Diet Coke. Punch it in!
There are no stupid questions.
If you inherit five million dollars the same day aliens tell the earth they're blowing us up in two days, what would you do?
That's the stupidest question I've ever heard.
Probably just row on out to the middle of a lake. Bring along my sax, some tequila, and some Bach.
How very.
You going to pull a Big Gulp with that?
No, but if you're nice I'll let you buy me a Slurpee. You know your 711speak pretty well.
I've been moved around all my life; Dallas, Baton Rouge, Vegas, Sherwood Ohio, there's always a 711. Any town, any time, I can pop a Ham and Cheese in the microwave and feast on a Big Wheel. Keeps me sane.
Really? That thing in the caf today was pretty severe.
The extreme always makes an impression, but you're right, it was severe. Did you say a Cherry or Coke Slurpee?
I didn't. Cherry.
Just a humble perk from my Dad's Construction company or should I say Deconstruction company?
I don't know. Should you?
My father seems to enjoy tearing things down more than putting things up. Seen the commerical? "Bringing every State to a Higher State."
Time out....Jason Dean. Your Pop's Fred Dean Construction. Must be rough. Moving place to place.
Everybody's life's got static. Is your life perfect?
Sure, I'm on my way to a party at Remington University.
It's not perfect. I don't really like my friends.
I don't really like your friends either.
It's like they're just people I work with and our job is being popular and shit.
Maybe it's time for a vacation.
Dreadful etiquette. I apologize.
S'okay....
I saw the croquet setup in the back. Up for a match?
That was my first game of Strip Croquet, you know. I thank you.
You're welcome. It's a lot more interesting than just flinging off your clothes and boning away on the neighbor's swing set.
Now blahblahblah is all I do. I use my grand I.Q. to figure out what gloss to wear and how to hit three keggers before curfew. Some genius.
Heather Chandler is one bitch that deserves to die.
Killing her won't solve anything.
A welltimed lightning bolt through her window and Monday morning, all the other heathers, shit, everybody would be cast fucking adrift.
Well then, I'll pray for rain.
See the condoms in the grass over there. We killed tonight, Veronica. We murdered our baby.
Hey, it was good for me too, Sparky.
Just saying it's not hard to end a life.
There's a big difference between the most popular girl in the school and dead sperm.
I guess I don't know what the hell I'm talking about.
I know exactly what the hell you're talking about and you're right, you don't know what the hell you're talking about. Let's just grow up, be adults, and die.
Good plan.
But before that, I'd like to see Heather Chandler puke her guts out.
Trust me. She skips the Saturday morning trip to Grandma's even when she's not hungover.
Then let's just concoct ourselves a little hangover cure that'll induce her to spew red, white, and blue.
I'm a PineSol man, myself.
Don't be a dick. That stuff'll kill her.
Okay. We'll cook up some soup and put it in a Coke. Sick, eh? Now should it be ChickenNoodle or BeanwithBacon?
Man Veronica, pull the plug on that shit. I say we go with Big Blue.
What are you <u>doing</u>? You just can't go.....Besides, she'd never drink anything that looks like that.
Okay we'll use this. She won't be able to tell what she's drinking.
Milk and orange juice. Hmmmm. Maybe we could cough a phlegm globber in it or something.
Yeah, great.
No luck? Well, milk and orange juice'll do quite nicely. Quite nicely.
Chicken.
You're not funny.
Something tells me you picked up the wrong cup.
No shit, sherlock. I can't believe it. I just killed my best friend.
And your worst enemy.
Same difference. Oh jesus, I'm gonna...
What are we going to tell the cops? "Fuck it if she can't take a joke, Sarge."
Stop kidding around. I'm going to have to send my S.A.T. scores to San Quentin instead of Stanford.
I'm just a little freaked, all right? You got what you wanted, you know.
It's one thing to want somebody out of your life. It's another thing to serve them a wakeup cup of Drano.
We did a murder. In Ohio, that's a crime. But if this was like a suicide thing.....
Like a suicide thing?
Adolescence is a period of life fraught with anxiety and confusion.
I can do Heather's handwriting as well as my own.
"You might think what I've done is shocking..."
"To me though, suicide is the natural answer to the myriad of problems life has given me."
That's good, but Heather would never use the word "myriad."
This is the last thing she'll ever write. She'll want to cash in on as many fiftycent words as poss.
She missed "myriad" on a vocab test two weeks ago, all right?
That only proves my point more. The word is a badge for her failures at school.
You're probably right..."People think just because you're beautiful and popular, life is easy and fun. Nobody understood I had feelings too."
"I die knowing no one knew the real me."
That's good. Have you done this before?
Mute!
Next channel, darling.
Heather Chandler is more popular than ever now.
Yeah. Scary stuff.
Jason, why don't you ask your little friend to stay for dinner.
My Mom's making my favorite meal tonight. Spaghetti. Lots of oregano.
Nice. The last time I saw my Mom, she was waving out the window of a library in Texas. Right, <u>Dad</u>?
What is this shit?
I'm doing a favor for Heather. A double date. I tried to tell you at the funeral but you rode off.
So what? Don't smile like that, Jesus!
Our love is God. Let's get a Slurpee.
I don't get the point of me writing a suicide note when we'll just be shooting them with blanks.
Get crucial. We won't be using blanks this time.
You can't be serious? Hey listen, my BonnieandClyde days are over.
Do you take German?
French.
These are Ich Luge bullets. My grandfather snared a shitload of them in W.W. Two. They're like tranquilizers only they break the surface of the skin, enough to cause blood, but not any real harm.
So it looks like the person's been shot and killed when they're really just unconscious and bleeding.
First tell me this similarity is not incredible.
Incredible similarity.
Ram and I died the day we realized we could never reveal our forbidden love to an uncaring and ununderstanding world. The joy we shared in each other's arms was greater than any touchdown. Yet we were forced to live the lie of Sexist Beer GuzzlingJockAsshole.
Exquisite, but I don't think ununderstanding is a word.
We don't want to make them out to be too secretly eloquent. Why would the Germans invent a bullet that doesn't kill people? I mean it <u>was</u> World War Two, not a school play.
They used them on themselves to make it look like they were dead. Really quite a brilliant device, but too flamboyant to seriously produce.
Neat. Let's try it out on J.F.K.
It doesn't work on small animals!
Oh.
Uh well hey, let's take a look at the homosexual artifacts I dug up. Now, prepare to be a little disappointed.
We've got a Playgirl, a candy dish, a Joan Crawford post card, and lipstick.
You must have had fun.
You know it. Oh man, I almost forgot. The one perfecto thing I picked up...
Perrier water!
Oh come <u>on</u>. Lots of people drink Perrier. It's come a long way.
This is Ohio. If you don't have a brewsky in your hand after dark you might as well be wearing a dress.
Oh, you're so smart. How about a little heterosexuality before we go?
Did you miss him completely?
Yeah, but don't worry, it was worth it just to see the look on....
Don't move! I'll get him back!
Kurt doesn't look too good.
Remember he's lefthanded.
We killed them, didn't we?
Of course.
You believed it because you wanted to believe it. Your true feelings were too gross and icky for you to face.
I did not want them <u>dead</u>.
Did to.
Did not.
Did to.
Did not.
Football season's over, Veronica. Kurt and Ram had nothing to offer the school but daterapes and A.I.D.S. jokes.
Sure. Can we make an ice run before the funeral?
Your son's dead and you love him.
How do you think Mr. Kelly would react to a son with a limp wrist with a pulse?
Can't you see this is a special moment?
I was just making it more special.
You shoulda stuck around, jerk. Ms. Fleming wants to redefine the high school experience.
She wants to ignore the high school experience. Our way's better. We scare people into not being assholes.
Don't <u>even</u> talk about that stuff!
You can be so immature!
You kids are making too much damn noise.
Let's just...settle down. Ms. Fleming has given us a chance to atone for...
Our sins? What sins? If you put a Nazi in a concentration camp, does that make you a Nazi?
May<u>be</u>.
We're breaking up. I am out!
Whaat? Come on, there's another T.V. in the kitchen. You know you used to have a sense of humor.
You're getting too cool for me, J.D. I don't know how to talk to you.
Our relationship's moving fast, I know, but I have real, real respect for you.
I'm going to make this Ms. Pauline thing work. Lines of communication between the cliques. You were a phase....
Phase my ass! You'll be <u>back</u>! I'm storming Normandy beaches and you're running in place with Pauline Fonda's airhead peacenik exercise program. Have to stay tough! You'll be back.
Catch a movie? Miniature Golf?
I was thinking more along the lines of slitting Heather Duke's wrists open and making it look like a suicide.
I could be up for that. I've already started underlining <u>meaningful</u> passages in Heather's copy of Catcher in the Rye, if you know what I mean. So are we on?
It's over, J.D. Over!
I don't get it! You were wrong! I was right! Strength, damnit! Come back!
Get off my bed, you sick psycho! You think you're a rebel! You're not a rebel! You're a sick psycho! Do you think you're a rebel? Do you think you're a rebel? I wanna know!
"You say tomayto, I say tomahto. Let's call the whole thing off...Hold it!
Look at that. Eskimo. One word. I love it. I usually go for whole sentences myself, but hey this is perfecto. Eskimo. So mysterious...
Wait a....You're not listening! I'm not on your side....
You're still not listening! I'm not..
Nag, nag, nag, nag. nag.
This knife is filthy.
What in the hell do you think I'm doing? Taking out her tonsils?
I think I know Heather a bit better than you, okay? If she was going to slash her wrists, the knife would be absolutely spotless.
Tomorrow someone else will move into her place. That person could be me. Ha, there's only one of us who knows Heather's handwriting and if you think I'm doing another suicide note.
You don't get it, do you? Society nods its head at any horror the American teenager can think to bring upon itself. We don't need gloves and does anyone really care about exact handwriting?
If you'll excuse me......
Noo!
I knew that loose was too noose! I mean, noose too loose! Goddamn you!
Like father, like son. A seriousas fuck bomb in the boiler room that'll set off a pack of thermals upstairs. Okay, so let's start by slowly putting the bomb down on the ground.
Okay, okay. I knew that. I knew that. Put your hands on your head.
You didn't say Simon Says.
It's all over, J.D. Help me to stop it.
You want to wipe the slate clean as much as I do. Okay, so maybe I am killing everyone in the school because nobody loves me. You have a purpose though! Remember? Let's face it, the only place different social types can genuinely get along with each other is in heaven.
How do you turn the fucker off?
You're not listening. People are going to look at the ashes of Westerburg and say there's a school that selfdestructed not because society didn't care, but because that school <u>was</u> society. Is that deep or what? I'll let you put it in your diary, babe. Free of charge.
The bomb, asshole!
Just push the red button twice. That's what stops it. If that's what you want, babe?
You know what I want, babe?
What?
You really fucked me up, Veronica.
I thought I...you..
You've got power, Veronica. Power I didn't think you had. The slate is clean.
What's your damage, Heather? You ruined my...
God, I'm so sure. Don't blame me, blame Heather. She told me to haul your ass into the caf pronto. Back me up, Heather.
God, aren't they fed yet? Do they even have Thanksgiving in Africa?
Oh sure, Pilgrims, Indians, tater tots; it's a real party continent.
God Veronica, drool much? His name's Jason Dean. He's in my American History.
Give me the clipboard.
No way, no day!
Give it up girl!
Watch it, Heather. You could actually be digesting food.
Yeah, where's your urge to purge?
That was seriously warped, Veronica.
Uhhuh.
Veronica. What are you doing tonight?
Mourning. Maybe watch some T.V. Why?
Ram asked me out, but he wants to double with Kurt and Kurt doesn't have a date.
Hea<u>ther</u>, I've got something going with J.D.
Please Veronica. Put Billy the Kid on hold tonight, I'll never forget it.
Shit.
So did you call people to tell them how to get to the studio tonight?
What were <u>you</u> trying to do? Sleep?
Suicide is a private thing.
You're giving your life away to become a goddamn statistic in U.S. Fucking A Today. That's got to be the least private thing I can think of.
But what about Heather and Ram and Kurt?
If everyone jumped off a bridge, young lady, would you?
Probably....
Hey now, if you were happy every day of your life, you wouldn't be a human being, you'd be a game show host.
Let's knock off early. Go to the mall. Something lame like that.
Sure.
Yeah, she really wants to talk to you.
Okay, I'm going, I'm going. Jesus...
Maybe you should see a doctor.
Yeah, maybe.
Yeah, you know Holden Caulfield in the Catcher in the Rye wouldn't put up with their bogus nonsense.
Well, you better move Holden out of the way or he's going to get spewed.
Don't worry. We'll work something out.
Yes. Yes. We'll work something out. I swear to God. Won't we J.D.?...J.D.?
Guess who?
Heather.
Hi everyone, door was open. Veronica, you missed it! Pauline and Whitney James were up there doing there suicide rap when the cops come in and announce that Martha Dumptruck tried to buy the farm. She gave the ticket girl at the Colfax theatre a suicide note then bellyflopped in front of a car.
Is she dead?
That's the punchline. She's still alive, in stable condition. Another case of a geek trying to imitate the popular people of the school and failing miserably. Is that pate?
I said I was sorry.
You are out of control. Heather and Kurt were a shock, but Martha Dumptruck, get crucial! She dialed suicide hotlines in her diapers.
You're not funny. Ouch!
What. A. Martyr. Understand; Martha couldn't take the heat so she got out of the kitchen. Just think what a better place the world would be if every nimrod followed her cue.
Just shut up and turn on the radio. Hot Probs is on.
Oh shit, yeah.
Veronica! Color me stoked, girl. I've gotten <u>everyone</u> to sign this petition even the one who think BigFun are tuneless Eurofags. People love me! My God, you haven't signed!
People love you but I know you. Jennifer Forbes told me the petition she signed was to put a jacuzzi in the cafeteria. And Doug Hylton...
So some people need different kinds of "convincing" than others.... Hey, just sign the petition!
Don't talk to me like that.
It was J.D.'s idea! He made out the signature sheet and everything. Now will you sign it?
No.
Jealous much?
Heather, why can't you just be a friend? Why are you such a MegaBitch?
Because I can be! The same fucking cheek, goddamnit! Why are you pulling my dick? Do you think, do you really think, if Betty Finn's fairy godmother made <u>her</u> Cool, she'd still act nice and hang with her dweebette friends? No way! UhUh!
Veronica, you look like hell.
Yeah, I just got back.
What are you doing?
Heather, my love, there's a new sheriff in town.
Where did you get these?
Oh, I just had the <u>nicest</u> chat with Ms. Dumptruck. Got along famously! It's scary how everyone's got a story to tell....Would you care to see the canoeing shots?
What do you want from me?
Strength. Westerburg doesn't need mushy togetherness, it needs a leader. Heather Chandler was that leader but...
But she couldn't handle it.
I think you can. In Catcher in the Rye Holden says his ideal job'd be making sure some kids don't fall off a cliff. He doesn't realize if you pay too much attention to the kids, you'll back off the cliff yourself.
Very very. The photographs?
Don't worry. I'll ask you to do me a favor. You'll get the negatives and everything back then.
TEENAGE SUICIDE; DON'T DO IT!
Some teenybopper rag says Big Fun wants to play a Prom. It could be Westerburg's if we can get everyone's John Hancock.
Kuurt, let's paarty.
Kuurt, I need an orgasm.
Grow up, Heather. Bulimia's so '86.
Color me nauseous.
God, they won't expell him. They'll just suspend him for a week or something.
He used a real gun. They should throw his ass in jail.
Anyway, I can say never to high school. I've got David.
King David.
Maybe when you hit maturity you'll understand the diff between a Remington University man like David and a Westerburg boy like Ram "Whambam thankyoumaam" Sweeney.
So tonight's the night. Are you two excited?
I'm giving Veronica her shot. Her first Remington Party. Blow it tonight girl and it's keggers with kids all next year.
Veronica. Finally. Got a paper of Kurt Kelly's. I need you to forge a hot and horny but realistically lowkey note in Kurt's handwriting and we'll slip it into Martha Dumptruck's lunch tray.
Shit, Heather. I don't have anything against Martha Dunnstock.
You don't have anything <u>for</u> her either. Come on, it'll be Very. The note'll give her shower nozzle masturbation material for weeks.
I'll think about it.
Don't think.
Sawyer. Guess what today is?
Ouch....the lunchtime poll. So what's the question?
Hey, this question wouldn't be that bizarro thing you were babbling about over the phone last......
Shut up, it is. I told Dennis if he gave me another topic that was political, I'd spew burrito chunks.
I was talking with someone!
Color me impressed. I thought you grew out of Betty Finn.
If you're going to openly be a bitch....
I'm sorry, it's just why can't we talk to different kinds of people?
Fuck me gently with a chainsaw. Do I look like Mother Theresa? If I did, I probably wouldn't mind talking to the Geek Squad.
Doesn't it bother you that everyone in the school thinks you're a pirahna?
Like I give a shit. They all want me, as a friend or a fuck. I'm worshipped at Westerburg and I'm only a Junior.
Pretend you're a missionary saving a colony of cootie victims.
Whatever. I don't believe this. We're going to a party at Remington University tonight and we're brushing up our conversation skills with the scum of the school.
Just imagine somebody like your quasifat, goodygood friend Betty Finn doing a Crest commercial. No one would buy Crest.
Don't tell me. Crest would be stained with loserness.
Yeah, and who wants that on their teeth?
You wanted to become a member of the most powerful clique in the school. If I wasn't already the head of it, I'd want the same thing.
I'm sorry? What are you oozing about?
That episode with the note back there was for all of us to enjoy, but you're determined to ruin my day.
We made a girl want to consider suicide. What a scream. What a jest.
Come on you jerk. You know you used to have a sense of humor.
Come on Heather. We want another look at today's lunch.
Geez, don't listen to them.
J.D.? You seem pretty amused. I thought you were giving up on high school guys.
Never say never.
Crap. So who's this Brad guy I've been set up with? Witty and urbane prelawyer or albino accountant?
Don't worry. David says he's very so he's very.
What's your damage? Brad says you're being a real cooze.
Heather, I feel awful, like I'm going to throw up. Can we jam, please?
No. Hell no.
You stupid cunt!
You goddamn bitch!
You were nothing before you met me! You were playing Barbies with Betty Finn! You were a Brownie, you were a Bluebird, you were a Girl Scout Cookie! I got you into a Remington Party! What's my thanks? It's on the hallway carpet. I get paid in puke!
Lick it up, baby. Lick. It. Up.
Monday morning, you're history. I'll tell everyone about tonight. Transfer to Washington. Transfer to Jefferson. No one at Westerburg's going to let you play their reindeer games.
Veronica. And Jesse James. Quelle surprise. Hear about Veronica's affection for regurgitation?
We both said a lot of things we didn't mean, last night.
Did we? How the hell'd you get in here?
Is this turnout weak or what? I had <u>at least</u> seventy more people at my funeral.
Heather? Wha...
Oh God Veronica, my afterlife is soo boring. If I have to sing "Kumbaya" one more time...
What are you doing here?!
I made your favorite. Spaghetti. Lots of oregano.
Let me get it clear, Veronica. You want yourself a sweet homeboy for this T.V. show so you can show everybody what a loose, Martin Luther Cosbylovng place Westerburg is.
Something like that. Will you do it?
Damn, you're a shrewd one. Shrewd.
I just want to show different kinds of people can get together and it doesn't have to be Vietnam. You don't get treated badly here do you?
I don't get treated at all, but hey, don't worry about it. I'll do your thing. It'll give my Mom a smile.
Things are going to change, Earl.
Uhhuh.
Take a break Veronica, sit down.
All right.
So what was the first week of Spring Vacation withdrawl like?
I don't know, it was okay, I guess.
Goddamn. Will somebody please tell me why I read this spy crap.
Because you're an idiot.
Oh yeah, that's it.
All right.
So what was the first day after Heather's suicide like?
I don't know, it was okay, I guess.
Goddamn. Will somebody please tell me why I smoke these damn things?
Because you're an idiot.
Oh yeah, that's it.
Hey Veronica, how'd that Teenage Prevention T.V. Suicide thing go?
Color me educated. I learned high school happiness is for members only, Pauline Fleming wouldn't know reality if it lived in her uterus, and reality's name's Heather James. Also, J.D.'s a major creep.
If I got that money, I'd give it all to the poor. Every cent.
You're beautiful.
Oh, I have to hear this.
In my heart, Heather's still alive.
What are you talking about? She hated you! You hated her! What are you smiling at?
I don't know. This thing leaves a bad taste in my mouth.
Like last night, Veronica?
I'm sorry? I don't get it.
You did last night.
So, are you a cheerleader?
No, not at all. BRAD You're pretty enough to be one.
Gee, thanks.
It's so great to be able to talk to a girl and not have to ask "What's your major?" I hate that.
Ever since Phil Collins did that MTV antidrug commercial I refuse everything.
Phil Collins? Are you sure he isn't drinking and driving?
Jeez, right, then why don't I do drugs?
Hey, don't run away now.
How's my little cheerleader? Now I know everyone at your high school isn't so uptight, come <u>on</u>.
Hey really, I don't feel so great.
Let's do it on the coats. It'll be excellent.
I have a little prepared speech I give when my suitor wants more than I'd like to give him.... Gee Blank, I had a nice....
Save the speeches for Malcom X. I just wanna get laid.
You don't deserve my fucking speech!
Sorry Veronica.
Betty Finn. Gosh.....
I'm really sorry I couldn't make it to your birthday party last month.
That's okay. Your Mom said you had a big date. Heck, I'd probably skip my own birthday party for a date.
Don't say that.
Oh Ronnie, you have to look at what I dug up the other day.
I don't believe it. I'm winning.
Don't get cocky, girl.
I missed you. I know I'm not as, as exciting as your other friends.
That's bullshit. Just shoot.
Ronnie, I'm still a virgin.
Shoot.
Betty, your daydreams are a lot better than my realities, believe me. I'm afraid though it's time to get your butt kicked.
Ronnie!
Hey, you're not settling for the two shots are you? Knock me out girl. It's the only way.
It's not my style, okay?
Nice guys finish last. I should know.
Next to "boring," "Sucks" is the most painfully overused word in the current English language. I thought if I could reverse the meaning of "sucks" so it means something positive, I don't know...It would be vaguely revolutionary. It's kind of my social experiment for the summer. "Suck" is historically a nice word snocones, your mother's...
] So <u>that's</u> one of the pearls from ] your mysterious journal? And all this ] time I thought you were restructuring ] the world's economy. ]
God, you're beautiful.
Thank you, my love. ]
I'm still on antibiotics, I really ] shouldn't be caffeining...Gosh, I've had a lot of daydreams about losing my virginity. Never one like this. For one, I wasn't a mutant. Secondly, I...What are you thinking?
I'm just thinking I'm glad I broke up with everyone I ever went out with. The swelling is gonna go down, right?
Have you ever thought of instead ] of making children more equipped ] for reality, we should make reality ] more equipped for children? ]
No. Fuck no. If you met yourself as a child, would you hug her and say everything's going to be okay...
Two billion years of evolution and ] you're what we've come up with ] "Wichita"the hot, cool, tellit ] likeitis counselor with a dark ] side. ]
What are you doing, Wendy? What's in that cup?
"Wichita"The guy every boy wants ] to be and every girl wants to hold. ] You're the love of my life and the ] end of the world. Cheers. ]
What in the hell did you do that for?
Iunno...Don't worry, I had everything on the hand memorized.
That's not what I was worried about.
Hey.
Heythat coffee? You're a goddess. Gimme, gimme...So what you gals talk about?
Oh you know, Bosnia, the importance of the right to vote...
Yeah, we talked about sex, too. Oberon must be sweating in his sleep.
We had fun. I even got along with Talia for about three minutes. I don't know why she hates me so much...
Yes you do.
Yeah. I guess I do.
Talia's a rock. She'll be fine...
Ann Taylor would have paid a lot more, but I wouldn't trade this experience for the world. Sometimes the first time you understand anything is when you have to explain it to someone younger You think I'm a big dork don't you?
I think your passion is terrific.
I think your condescension is even better.
We have more in common than you think, Wendy dear. I loved summer camp when I was young and I love it now. It's important. Between school, family, friends, pot, playstations, basic cable, and the goddamn Internet, it's possible to go your whole life without listening to your soul. Out here, in nature, away from the shit, surrounded by reminders of who I once was...I get recharged. Now who's the dork?
Gosh, this is really a great conversationI can't believe I said that out loud.
You know, this reminds me of the time we were talking about something and then just started kissing...
Do you really not believe in God?
It's okay, there's a lot of things I don't believe in...
What else don't you believe in?
Talking while kissing.
So this is it, anybody you don't agree about everything with can't be your friend...
Iunno.
"Iunno." I'm really beginning to hate that word of yours. I'm sorry for sounding hostile, but I'm not sorry for...
Don't be. Don't be sorry for your thoughts. They make me...react. I don't know...all I know is that I can't go through another summer where I <u>almost</u> did something.
When were you in Niagara Falls?
About ten years awhy...Don't look at these...Come on...Stop.
Todd was out there blocking the ] entrance. You would have been proud ] of me...My suit of armor is starting to come off. Not all of it, but enough to walk around...
And you'll be happy to know I'm going to drop my Snow White and the Seventy Dwarves act...Not all of it, but...
I was thinking...if we could mesh my way of thinking with your way ] of thinking, we could really do some ] great counseling. It's all about ] the evolution of the species, we ] can improve... ]
I love you. Don't say I love you, too. I hate that"love you, too."
I know what you mean. But it doesn't put me in too great a position...
Don't worry, you...
Fuck off.
I should leave. You probably need your rest.
Probably.
Are you allowed to do it more than once a night?
It's been known to happen.
Excuse me, Counselor Wendy, I need assistance in finding that important...thingie in the storage room.
Oh my gosh, why didn't you say something earlier...
Do you really think we're fooling anyone?
Do you really think I care?
She got a little poison oak and started screaming for assisted suicide.
Be nice. Her father died in that TWA flight the government shot down...You know I'm going to be in the city next week. My mom says it's okay that I stay overnight at your dorm...It'll be nice to see you in ] a different shirt. ] ] WICHITA ] Oh, I didn't tell you. I wear this ] all year round. The chicks dig it... ]
Excuse me, Wichita, I can't seem to reach the top shelf in the storage room. Could you...
Not now, Wendy.
This isn't about "doing it." I just think we need to talk some things out privately before...
Ah, our last night at camp...I always knew it would be something special.
What do you want me to say?
Something more interesting than that...How could you? How could!
Stop! Stop it, this afternoon was not what you thought...I overheard you and Pixel, at the side of the mess hall, your idea about the "test"...Do you believe me?
Iunno. Of course I believe you. It's so you...I didn't think it was possible ] for you to make me feel worse, ] but...you're saying you <u>deliberately</u> ] destroyed us! I don't even get I'm ] sorryitwastheheatofthe ] moment... ] ] WICHITA ] I know, I'm...I'm evil. ] ] WENDY ] Oh that's right, baby, you're so ] "evil." You're, you're so "dark"... ] ] WICHITA ] We should get back. ] ] WENDY ] You're not evil or dark...you're ] just scared. ]
Shut the fuck!
I have to get up. Still more to do. That boy hates Asian people. That girl thinks she gave her Mom cancer by dropping a plate on her hand. Her daddy touches her. His daddy never touches him. It would have been cooler if I'd died.
Wendy, I'll come back later. ] ] WENDY ] Why does every ten year old know ] what they want to be when they grow ] up, but then as you actually grow ] up, you forget everyThe girls are ] big on "Veterinarian" this year ] I think it could be the "ballerina" ] of this century. ]
Isn't this the time where one of us says something deeply offensive to the other one...We're just so different.
So what? ]
Yeah, why should we let our actual personalities get in the way of us falling in love?
Yes! God yes! I would tell her that I love her! To not let anyone take away her dreams..!
You should grab her and shake her ] and tell her it's a goddamn war out ] there. Idiots and assholes and ] sadists that must be defeated. Tell ] them her the truth! ] ] WENDY ] The truth is a lie! Yes, television ] is rotting our brains! Yes, people ] kill people easier than ever! Does ] that mean we give up! I think every ] child is capable of being talented, ] happy, and great. I'm probably wrong, ] but you know something, it's good ] to be wrong. ] ] WICHITA ] ] You might be right...Wendy, you're ] fantastic. I can't stop adoring ] you... ] ] What I thought was lust, was only ] love...You think I'm scared, scared ] of love...Love conquers all...Maybe ] I don't want to be conquered. "Share ] my life"I barely got enough for ] myself...But we were in the picture ] together...the picture.... ] ] WENDY ] What are you talking about? What ] picture... ] ] WICHITA Just forgetYou didn't bring me out here to help me change. You brought me out here to punish me.
Nobody really changes at summer camp. They merely find out who they are and become it more than ever. You can't be helped, Wichita. I'm not sure you can be punished, either. But let's find out...
How do you mean? ]
College was entertaining, Wichita, but after 40 days and 40 nights of this, I really think we're going to get to know each...
Ooh look, time to confiscate my first water balloon...
...and it hurts too much to keep these feelings inside me any longer...
Talia, you know how important our friendship is to me and I would never do anything to...
"...how important our friendship..." Not that oldOh God, what have I done?
Talia, you're a wonderful person...
Stop, stop, what was I thinking...out in the wilderness. Under the stars. I've ruined every
I just never thought of you in that...
I gotta...I gotta go do a "bunk check." Or some fucking thing.
You look a like you could use a friend. You know, I'll never forget my first day at camp. Boy, I was so nervous that I...
Heywhaddya say, we need another muskrat to join our Sunshine circle. Scurry up! Isn't Fun great!
Well, the first week of camp has swhooshed on by and I thought this a perfect time to finally powwow. I think we should discuss
We need more ritalin. Can't we just grind it into the munchkins' food?
Who wants to go tell the Antichrist to take a "timeout?"
Talia, just because you happen to be Jewish, doesn't mean you can make fun of someone desecrating the Lord's body...
Yes, it does.
Man asswipe, you made my enormous cock fall off...
I don't know about you dickweeds, but I gotta go take a nice, long juicy dump.
Wendy, don't be afraid to get a little stupid and contagious. The kids don't understand that this is our summer, too. We shouldn't have to put our lives on hold to be their butlers.
I just don't know about this whole actual sexuality thingHow do you go from being friends with a guy to wanting to put the thing he uses to go to the bathroom with in your mouth?
What are you doing?
Nothing.
You know you just do this for shock value. It's not shocking.
When did pretending to be bored become a sign of superiority? Are you mad at me for giving the cabin new haircuts or are you just still miserably pining for Wichita's lightning rod?
Geez, what time is it? I have to go feed Big Chief Oberon...You're right, I miss him. Wichita, that is. I really want to be with him, but I can't bring myself toAre you a lesbian or are you...
I didn't realize I had to declare a major.
Why do you even like me?
You remind me of me when I was...I guess I was never like you. So cute. So questioning.
I'm not a naiive little...
Uhhuh.
You'll be hiding behind a tree.
The oak where Jocelyn sprained her ankle.
Exactly. When we get into the clearing, I'll turn on my sexy moves. Wichita will go for it or he'll shoot me down. Either way, you come away with knowledge.
I'm sorry. It just...It seems silly. Like kissing a girl.
Clever observation. Go back to Wichita. Oh that's right, you can't.
...sorry...
This is not the way it was supposed to I was going to start writing a children's book using input from all I don't even like smoking!
One day they'll find a cure for AIDS. They'll never find one for sex. It's kind of funny, most movies and stories with a bunch of camp counselors has some serial psycho in the woods with a chainsaw who systematically butchers everybody one by one.
Yeah. And?
It's just funny...who needs a serial psycho in the woods with a chainsaw when we have ourselves.
Are we allowed to start hating "Wendy" yet..."Gee Wichita, I guess mosquitoes have always liked me."
You and Wichita go to school together, right? Have you two ever...
That would be a No.
That wants to be a Yes.
I don't know what I'm doing. I know he only likes me as a friend. He's just so...everythingI know he only likes me as abut it came up that he used to be a camp counselor and I used to be a camp counselor...
Get him alone for the summer. Out in the wilderness. Underneath the stars...
Amber! Uh...don't do that.
"or you're going to get it?" Wow, first week of camp. Promise me you won't try moving so fast with Wichita.
Don't worry, I have 33 more days to find just the perfect moment to tell him how I...
Don't forget, when you get home, O.B.'s. They're created by a female gynecologist.
Yeah, an insane female gynecologist! Hayley, don't listen to her.
They're the easiest to shoplift, okay? No woman should have to pay for something forcedonherwithout choice by Nature...what's the matter, Hayley? ] ] As they playfully bicker, Hayley gazes, with a tinge of ] longing, to Vanessa and the Bombshellettes parked at a picnic ] table, flirting up a storm with their cuteboycounterparts. ] ] TALIA ] What do you thinkit's the Last ] Night of Camp Dance. ] ] PIXEL ] What are you saying? She doesn't need ] some <u>boy</u> to validate her summer ] experience! ] ] TALIA ] Oh of course she does, you dumb ] bitch. Just because we're feminist, ] doesn't mean we have to be totally ] abnormal. ] ] PIXEL ] Hayley back me up... ] ] HAYLEY ] ] One dance would be kind of ] nice...Don't hate me, Pixel. ] ] PIXEL ] ] I don't. Now go away, Talia and I ] need to huddle... ]
Go stand by the flagpole.
Sorry about all that...I'm your CIT Jasper.
When all else fails, JasperGum. Even now in these troubled times, ] every child's drug of choice. ]
You are to be executed at Dawn anyway. Might as well commit the crime. Go to her, Wichita...
You're all making me blush...
No, they're not from Wendy.
Your Secret admirer?
Not so secret anymore. Don't look all at once...behind the pine...Dorothy from Cabin Seven.
I guess it was too much to ask that it would somebody older...and maler. Like you.
Hey, I thought I wasn't your type.
Wichitayou're everybody's type. But seriously, don't worry about it. I get my occasional crushes.
Hey, it's not a crush anymore if ] you actually say it to the person ] you supposedly have the... ] ] JASPER ] Thought I'd get points for a post ] modern approach to coming on to you. ]
Goodnight, Jasper.
Goodnight.
You're a little harsh on Todd. You're a little harsh on everybody. I know ] you like to think of yourself as ] the AntiOberon, but man, you're ] getting just as spooky. What was ] that speech in there? Does Camp really ] have to be a revolutionary act? Can't ] the children, at their own pace, ] discover... ] ] WICHITA ] Yeah, okay, I was a little out of ] hand, but come on, you got to give me Todd. Don't get me wrong, I've learned to love the little Piggy, but Todd is the most invincible loser I've ever come across. His greatest talent is lack thereof. No matter ] what the category, bet against him ] and win. ]
Stop, stop...I'm willing to put my mouth where my mouth is...I throw one overhand pass and Todd catches it dramatic pauseYou let me go down on you...
Hello?! What's in it for me?
Thanks a lot. Seriously though, by winning this bet, you will prove to the world that you indeed know everything. Isn't the rush of gambling on your cynical philosophy of life enough?
Man, she's losing it...
It's about time. Isn't Fun great?
Talia, don't go!
Whaat? What is it?
Everything.
Whew, that wasn't a period. That was an exclamation mark. You know, Hayley, behind every great woman is a great first menstruation anecdote.
I hope so...
This is...this is...a very special moment...
Freeze! You're busted!
What are you gonna do about it?
Ooh, I'll think of something, missy. A telescope? Where you going? I don't want to know.
Thanks, Talia...Why are you so nice to me?
Why am I soThat's newThe way I figure it is if I can get through to just one camper...then I'm a pretty incompetent counselor. ] Don't get caught. I'll deny ] everything. ]
Mine!
You guys have been so colossal...
Eavesdropping, eh? Hear anything good?
Man, it's not like I don't know about women. I had this babysitter...
That really sucked, Eric, what you did, asking him that...
Oh thanks, it was nothing...
You know, I think I left something by the lake. Could you check it out You'll know it when you see it...
Sure, Wichita. Whatever you say...
There you are! Man, I don't know how to thank...
Eric...You can't be like me. You have to be better. I'm not the guy you think I am...
Of course you are. You don't know what I was like before I met you. You're like the best counselor ever.
Pamela Anderson, Kate Moss, Halle Berry, and Fiona Apple, all naked in one room. You can do anything you want to them, except one of them has fullblown Aids, and you don't know who. And you're not allowed to use a condom.
Call me conservative, but I'd rub my penis on the faces of all the ladies before bestowing the final honors to the divine Ms. Berry's lovely visage.
YowzaOnly a virgin could answer that fast.
I'm not really aDoes it count if...
Do you realize if the women of America would have just heard what you said...
They wouldn't be a bit surprised..
Make it seem you have this comfortable, mysterious life and you don't give a shit whether she's a part of it. Oh, and bring up India, Talia has this obsession... Whoa, Donald, play hard to get, not hard to want...Let Talia know that your goofy act is just something you do for the kids....
It is? I don't know about this, Wichita. Am I even right for Talia? ] What About Wendy? I mean, you and ] Wendyhow are you and Wendy... ] ] WICHITA ] Complicated. Extremely. ] ] Wichita and Donald drift closer toward the headsetted Wendy, ] who stands to the side of the searchers like a commandant. ] ] WENDY ] Now remember, people, let's keep ] away from the mountain. Repeat... ] ] There you are. Could you possibly ] do one thing and help keep the ] campers away from.... ] ] WICHITA ] ] Hey everybody, we're climbing the ] mountain! ]
Howdy Pouty.
I was pretty confident that I was going to blow it with Talia, but I must say, I outdid myself.
She's still pissed at me and took it out on you. We should have taken it slower. It's hard to operate in the woods. Much easier in, like a club. Tell the girl you've got to go do something, leave her view, take way too long until she is worried that you're not coming back. Just as she starts feeling awful, you come up from behind and touch her neck...
You are the prince of the darkness.
I'm in the picture on Wendy's wall. Niagara Falls. Family trip. Little Wendy foreground. Me background. What are the odds on that one?
Uh, yeah, that's...wow.
I couldn't tell her...it's, it's too major...Jesus, I'm starting to believe in God and what's worse I think I like the guy. The lightning bolt was just a test, right? Wendy and Iwe're meant to be. I'm right, right? I have to see her...
Say Hi for me.
Okay, okay, just don't everyone talk at once...First of all, little Jason has a learning disability...
Yeah, his lack of intelligence. Sorry, Wendy, but as learning disabilities go, stupidity is often overlooked.
Now what? What did I do this time?
I just wanted to know if you've seen this.
Summer would have been a lot less without you. You're a true friend, Donald.
Was there a night that I got really drunk and declared that I never loved anyone as much as I loved you?
No.
That's good. I wouldn't have wanted to embarrass myself.
I'm gay. Like you didn't know.
Andrew. You're not gay; you're ten. You shouldn't even be having thoughts like...
You mean you didn't have any gay thoughts when you were my age...
Well, uh...Promise me you won't do anything until you're 18.
Did you wait until you were 18?
I'll bet you're glad I waited until the last day to have this conversation.
You have no idea. Now run away.
Believe me, I wish I knew less. Oh, if you weren't such a pig...
I can be a good pig. Babe. Charlotte's Web. Good pig. Watch.
Sadist! I can't believe I thought you could changeThis is your idea of discipline? You're a monster. That kid is going to be traumatized for...
About three days. I'm a monster. He's a monster. Actually, we're both just guys. I don't expect you to understand that I...
No really, keep talking, I reeally want to hear what you have to say, you're just so eloquent...
Why are you...don't stop...why?
"Why?" If I asked questions like that, I'd never make love"love" Damn you, Damn this, damnit!
It's funny, when I first met you I thought you were such a weirdo...I still think you're a nut, but you're my nut.
Yeah...Are we going to do it or what? I still haven't packed.
Why are you being so grouchyThis is an important night for us...
Adam. Dollface. We had a physical relationship that served a purpose and now...
But, but that was before we started sharing stuff. Before I told you how I cried when Peepers died. I never told anyone that before.
And this Peepers was your...dog? If it makes you feel better, I probably wasn't paying attention.
That doesn't make me feel better! Why are you being like this?
Don't raise your voice atI gave you the ultimate male fantasysex, nothing on the side. Don't pretend we shared anything other than fluids.
Stop it, stop it, you satanic whore!
You think you're so...but you're just...
That's it, Adam, pretend it's one of those arcade things, the tighter you squeeze, the more of a man you are...Ooh, that's it.
For the <u>worst</u> hurt, of course, that which will not heal, is the conviction no one cares.
I've come to see you, sir, about an Auction...
Ah, yes, ah yes. Our Doctor Lechter... And have they sent you, once again to <u>capture</u> him? How terrible for you...
No, sir, it's not my job to capt... why do you say how terrible?
Because we must leave the past <u>in</u> the past. Ah. And here we have artifacts of, yes, my own encounter with him...
Sir, various drawings, done by Dr. Lechter, while in prison, stolen from the prison after his escape, have surfaced and are being sold at auction. Several large reserve bids have been placed on them. I have to ask if you've placed those bids.
Because?
Because if it was not you, then, perhaps it was Dr. Lechter, trying to reclaim his own property.
And why would you suspect me, of this ghoulishness?
Because, sir, you are the only one of his victims who lived. And because you have large resources.
Large resources, Starling, which I prefer to devote elsewhere....
My encounter.
<u>Someone</u> offered three million dollars bounty on Dr. Lechter's head.
...sir...?
Isn't it funny? You can look on my face which you would grant me, is the most hideous sight you will see in what I hope is a long life. You can look at me. Which shows a Strength which <u>must</u> come from strong strong convictions. But you <u>shy</u> when I say the name of God.
Yes, then, you're saying that you <u>haven't</u> bid upon these drawings.
I have not, I would <u>not</u>. For life life goes on Starling. And, wait, wait, I wish to <u>talk</u> to you... I'm... One moment. I was <u>afflicted</u>, do you see, but my affliction was not in my meeting with your Dr. Lechter. I was <u>afflicted</u> before. Before. Do you see? In my arrogance. Do not Do not curse God when you are humiliated. Listen to me: <u>embrace</u> it, and you embrace <u>life</u>.... <u>Listen</u>, and you hear the word of <u>God</u>...
Tell me why...?
I'm sorry, I don't mean to be impolite. Because, you know, you can't understand.
Then tell me.
Well, you know, you know, you know, the <u>point</u> is: I <u>can't</u> tell you. Cause you haven't <u>been</u> there. You haven't <u>done it</u>. And that's all there <u>is</u>.
...and to have <u>done</u> it, means, can mean to accept, not only <u>danger</u>, but <u>betrayal</u>...?
....that's right.
..and <u>humiliation</u>? What is this new job they've...?
No. That's right. That's all part of it.
Then, that being so, why is today special? Why have you come back to see me? Is it that new file they gave you?
I don't <u>think</u> so.
Then what brings you back?
I don't know. Do <u>you</u> know...?
Yes. I think I <u>do</u>. I think it is a phrase you used with that woman. You told her you were an <u>orphan</u>. You <u>used</u>, to your mind, your most private fears.
...no...
...you called up memories of your <u>father</u> to...
...no...
...<u>barter</u> with her. To appeal to her, and you feel that...
No, I don't <u>think</u> so...
It is <u>you</u> who have betrayed...
...no.
Your father. It is not <u>they</u>, who...
Well, no... That's... I appreciate your <u>help</u>, but...
Yes.
What does <u>that</u> mean?
I saw a man today, a man so hideously deformed who'll spend his life in a hospital bbb...
Yes, so you said. But what does that mean: to go beyond The Institution.
If <u>he</u> could overcome... his need for... for self<u>ratification</u>...
...would you use a small word?
For approval.
What's wrong with approval? You admired that man.
Yes.
How do you think that made him feel? What does that <u>mean</u>, "to go beyond the institution...?"
I told that woman I'm an orphan.
...you <u>are</u> an orphan.
But... but....but.... you're <u>right</u>. I used it. To <u>bargain</u>. For her <u>sympathy</u>... I <u>used</u> itto "whore myself out"
Welcome to the human race. Do you know, there are people who admire you? Reasonable people. Why don't you <u>find</u> them...?
Yes, but no one is in control of their emotions. that's all we have time for today...
I don't understand.
You said: that you have "decided." That your... your feelings of persecution, as you put it are a "self indulgence," and you are going to put them aside. And get on with your job.
That's right.
And you have decided to accept... to accept this "emotion," as you put it, to the ... the "sweepings. of the Lechter case.
Yes.
And you've decided to get <u>married</u>. You've decided a <u>lot</u> of things. But, in spite of your decisionsyou are still "nagged" by feelings of: <u>despair</u>, of <u>failure</u> of... you still have the <u>nightmare</u>, you...
What is your point?
That if <u>decision</u> were a useful tool, you wouldn't <u>be</u> here. Why are you here...?
I..
...yes...?
I want to do something <u>positive</u>...
You want some <u>advice</u>.
Yes.
Your life has been defined by institutions. The Orphanage where you were raised, the FBI Academy, the Bureau. If the Institution is your life, <u>accept</u> it. Ask to be reinstated on the "Drumgo" task force. Play their game.
...why?
Because it's the game you've chosen. That's really all we have time for.
He was <u>shot</u>...he was shot. On his rounds. And... and...
That's when you went to the Orphanage...
And all he <u>left</u> us: the Country brought back his <u>hat</u>, and his <u>badge</u>... both with a bullethole in them. An' that's what he left us. That's what I said.
And you have been <u>dreaming</u>... dreaming about this Hat, and...
And. I always said, he was a <u>P'lice</u> officer.
...yes...?
But. He was a night <u>watchman</u>. That's what he was. N'They brought back, his hat, his <u>badge</u>, an his <u>timeclock</u>. N'then they took me off. I <u>saw</u>... I saw. Clear as day, do you, do they call it a <u>delusion</u>? His hat an his badge. Clear as day, bulletholes and all.
When?
But they were not there. <u>Yesterday</u>. Is that called a Delusion...?
...a <u>liaison</u> position...
And what does <u>that</u> mean?
...I feel that...
"A liaison position with the Opera."
She must be something special After Dark.
I can't remember. I've got to make some money.
Thirty thousand dollars reward. In the whereabouts of Il Dottore Fanelli, or the apprehension of his...
...yes, yes, yes....
What're they on about?
They're grilling the applicant for the Vacant Post.
Speaking of the Vacant Post.
Dottore Fanelli...
...a Dr. Fell. A Brazilian, I think. Applying for Fanelli's post.
Brazilian.
It would seem.
An Honor. Carlo Pazzi....
No, y'know, I never <u>doubted</u> it...
You were kind enough, today, to take my photograph.
Well, that's you see, what I am, kind and feeling.
...<u>sadly</u>...
Hey, lost again.
But perhaps, there is some, some less radical solution.
I'm sure there is, but my young Friend here, would <u>kill</u> you.
His feelings do him honor. And I have come, simply, to pay my <u>respects</u> to the great Clarice Starling...
The great and <u>beautiful</u>...
Is it necessary to say of the sea that it is salt, that the stars are far, that...
No,I get it, this is my <u>Cavalier</u>. This gents my Italian Knight. Take <u>this</u>... For this shall be my gage, and you can take it into battle.
Thank you.
Or clear your windshield with it.
...what a lovely perfume.
Waal, you c'n only get it in one shop in Alexandria Virginia, n'that's where I'm going, cause I'm goin <u>home</u>, f'i can get n'y'one, Of That Nature, to <u>take</u> her there...
...this one is my favorite. It has not title. They should call it "fetch," whaddaya think...?
I know it well.
<u>Do</u> you. What does that mean?
It is a gravestone in the cemetery of ______ in my native Florence.
Yeah, I'm sure it's famed for lotsa things, and you're one'a'them...
...but: this particular statue...
Waal, you hold fast to that thought, as I'm sure, that's a "clue"...
....this is perhaps an inappropriate <u>time</u>... but, I would like to say, it is an honor to meet the Woman who <u>solved</u> the celebrated Hannibal Lechter...
I din't solve it, I didn't '<u>solve it</u>'. I just sat a <u>dance</u> out with him. Facts, facts, facts. <u>Facts</u>, close the case, cavalier.
...a case, so, so <u>fascinating</u>, so...
Hello....?
...what did you want?
I know where he is.
I'm sure I don't know who you mean.
I know where he is.
And why should we believe you?
I know something no one knows. He has had his finger removed. On his left hand. It left a scar.
What shape is the scar?
I want the money.
What shape is the scar?
The shape of a Three.
...the purpose of the exercise... is it because they are <u>expensive</u>...
They aren't expensive, you got them through your connections.... speaking of which:
Fine, thank you, but
Speaking of which, I want you also to get us tickets for the Opera...
...whatever is within my <u>power</u>...
...and that is what you need to expand.
I don't understand.
We are here on sufferance. I am here...
...why are we here in the <u>first</u> place...?
Because it is exclusive... because <u>everyone</u> will be here...
...my love...
...they asked us to dinner. How can we accept if we cannot <u>return</u> the...
I am on the track of...
Yes, yes, yes, your thirty thousand dollars reward, which you would have to split with your team, which, <u>if</u> you get it, will not buy me a new <u>watch</u>...
...what do you expect me to...
No. Invite us? No, he simply...
Then we cannot go.
Because...?
Because we cannot <u>pay</u>...
"Because we don't have any money."
....because we don't have any mmm...
The Case that I am <u>working</u> on...
It's a <u>joke</u>. You're a joke. You're a joke. You don't know what money <u>is</u> your idea of money... ...spend it on a whore on your 'business trip.' That is the fine limit of your ambitions...
Ask me when we get home.
Oh, my <u>program</u>...
...and then, we're going to <u>Greece</u>...
Yes, but the <u>important</u> thing, as I've said...
...get me a cigarette.
You want another drink, honey...?
I want the <u>same</u> drink. Cause it did me <u>good</u>... but I already drunk it, so, barring that, yes, I would like another.
What's that, Baby?
Alcohol. Where both its lifeenhancing And its life destroying qualities... ...not unlike some Hindu <u>God</u>...
I guess the only thing is Suck it Up...
Well. <u>Excellent</u>... I'm...
Our Mister <u>Frendler</u> to, to, to humiliate me, though....
What else's he goin to do with his day, he can't work, and he won't steal...
Oh baby, oh baby....
Look what they put her on...
No, that is codeword material, that's what <u>that</u> is....
You should get Married.
That's what I should do. Tell me why?
Because, baby, you're looking to find love in an institution, that's your only chance....
Yeah, but who would marry friendless <u>me</u>... Howabout you, Romeo...?
Yeah, well, they solved that: turns out, he'uz a <u>cannibal</u>...
Show'm the FBI <u>Hand</u>shake...
I am no going to show you the <u>secret</u> <u>handshake</u>!
Yeah, well, it's a raw wound, innit, you're gonna bump it, every time you turn around... but you know what the <u>trick</u> is...?
...not to turn around.
Because you're going to help me plan a party.
You're going to <u>do</u> that?
I'm going to do it, and you're going to catch the bouquet.
The MultiJurisdiction Task Force: read alphabet soup, for the continued pursuit, and in preparation for the apprehension of the fugitive, Evelda Drumgo. The man's hazing you.
My daddy would say: accept with glee the things you cannot change.
I'll tell you what: I should go in there, volunteer to fill up his Female Quota.
Mr. Crawford asked my opinion. Here we've got a purported xray, Dr. Lechter's surgery. Do we keep it secret, or broadcast it?
Saying what, "Look out for a guy with ten fingers...?"
Yeah, that's too Hip for the Room.
You stay offa this Alphabet Soup Detail, all this halfbaked, cowboy stuff, till after you get your <u>mind</u> cleared.... you don't wanna go out there a halfstep <u>slow</u>...
I don't wanna go out there at <u>all</u>...
What do you want to do? You want to jam up that sonofabitch Krendler.
No. I want to buy a dog.
What broke <u>you</u> free, Girl?
I met a man, and His Troubles Were Greater Than Mine...
What was it. What was it, honey?
...something about my <u>father</u>...?
...what?
Do you think you could make a cup of coffee, cause I'm going to work.
...what...?
N'not <u>that</u> sad.
No.
Every suicide kills two.
Yeah. Well. They're a talkative buncha commentators.
You got a lot of people love you, Starling.
Trouble is, they all seem to <u>die</u>.
Y'want to gimme Brigham's pistol?
What would you guess, Ardelia?
You goin to shoot yourself?
Don't shoot yourself.
Why?
Cause I'm tired, cleaning up after you. Why dontcha gimme the gun?
Give me your gun...
...<u>what</u>...?
Thank you, Cordell.
...but will that satisfy you?
Why should <u>you</u> care?
It is not that I care for <u>you</u>but that I posses an enquiring mind. What will you <u>do</u> when I am gone? When you have nothing to occupy your thoughts, save the memory of your own folly, and, more to the point, stupidity.
ARE YOU <u>DONE</u>?
<u>Yes</u>.
You don't wish to <u>beg</u>...?
Would that add to your <u>mirth</u>?
Explain in depth the plan we have for him. Until tomorrow.
The girl could use some help.
You're <u>free</u>...
...which of us is free...?
Yes, to cease to Hope is the Greatest Crime. The Greatest crime. Perhaps the <u>only</u> crime. <u>I</u> never ceased to hope!
The girl needs help.
And what would be of Greater Help, than to release her, from the bonds of this sordid earthly existence. DON'T YOU THINK? IN WHICH THE INNOCENT ARE TORTURED IN WAYS WHICH WOULD MAKE THE ANGUISH OF THE DAMNED SEEM TAME AND UNIMAGINATIVE, DON'T YOU <u>THINK</u>? BLIND HIM AGAIN, AND PREPARE <u>HIM AND HER</u> FOR THE PIGS!
...might I make a suggestion...?
...after you' re dead. AND WHEN I GIVE THE WORD, do you understand...when I give the <u>word</u>...
...when I...
...what has she done to harm you...?
Can you walk? Are your legs working...?
<u>Perhaps</u>... shall we <u>see</u>...?
I'm going to cut you loose. With all due respect, Doctor, if you fuck with me, I'll shoot you dead, do you understand...? Do right and you'll live through this.
Spoken like a Protestant.
You look lovely.
Thank you. No, I know you'd prefer "I'm glad you <u>find</u> me so..."
I'd prefer you to say what you feel.
What is that that smells so wonderful.
I hope you'll <u>find</u> it so. Yes. It's <u>good</u> to see you regaining your strength...
Thanks to <u>you</u>...
...I'm sorry....?
...we were speaking of my <u>father</u>...
Indeed we were.
...and my need for The Institution...
Freud, do you know...? Freud psychoanalyzed patients in One Afternoon.
And how did he do that?
He saw the truth, and <u>spoke</u> it...
I'm afraid, this wine is making me woozy...
...you have to <u>eat</u>...
And you let her get away.
Sir, with all due respect....
You find something objectionable to working in partnership with....
Sir, I'm in Law Enforcement, I was out there, dealing with an armed and dangerous...
You were given backup....
THEN WHERE WAS IT? I'm sent out there... I'm told that the <u>arrest</u> must be a joint...
I'm saying: ... and what's wrong with that.
And I'm telling you: You wanna throw a Birthday Party: Every kid gets a Chance to Play, that's <u>fine</u>, but...
No, I don't get you...
Due respect, you <u>don't</u>, sir, your precious Joint Operation. FBI, ATF, DC SWAT, it's alphabet <u>soup</u>, we don't have the same Radio Freqs, we don't...
Oh, is this your political position, you're opposed to Joint...
I'm opposed to being part, Your Rainbow Coalition. Evelda Drumgo? I could of took her down in a snap of the <u>fingers</u> <u>But</u> I'm out there, and my Rules of Engagement...
And, fine, alright, and fine... what are <u>you</u>doing, this whole time?
Sir, I was, as instructed, waiting for the Arrival of the Strike Force. {PAUSE)
...spend some time on the streets. Ask me then...
Thank you, that's not responsive. How did our Miss Drumgo get...
I came to pay my...
...get outta my way, you sonofa<u>bitch</u>...
I realize, you're under a lot of....
You put my friend in the ground, with your mickeymouse <u>TaskForce</u>... Izsat the kind of Headlines that Preserve and Promote, you, sir?
...may be the heat....
Let's get her <u>out</u> of here....
Make them eat the figurine.
They <u>will</u>, sir. We <u>train</u> them, to the figurine, <u>eventually</u>, they consume a man, say, 80 kilos, say, in...
...tell them...
...they eat the dummy, sir, they eat the <u>man</u>... I keep them hungry. When... when do we think this man arrives.
Is it necessary to know?
Well, I don't want to starve them too long. They die.
Oh, no, no. It won't be <u>that</u> long.
...Franklin.
Where do you live?
With Mama and Shirley and Stringbean.
In and out. Yes. And Mama... and Mama, is not your real Mama, is she Franklin?
She my foster.
She's not the first foster that you've had. <u>Is</u> she?
No.
Do you like it at your home, Franklin?
We got KittyKat...
Yes.... yes...
...and Shirly, let me sleep with her sometime.
Yes. Franklin, you can't live there anymore. With Mama and Shirly and Kittykat. You have to go away.
...who say...?
The government says. Mama has lost her job, so she can't be your foster mother. The police found a marijuana cigarette in your home. You can't see Mama anymore. Or Shirley. Or Kitty Cat. That's what the <u>Government</u> says...
Of course, Commendatore...
Could you tell me: did you ever meet your predecessor, Dottore Fanelli...?
I never met him. I knew him only from his writings.
I know that the officers who first investigated his disappearance searched for a <u>note</u>, a farewell note, a suicide note...
...yes.
You have taken over his offices, is that not so?
It is only temporary, until my confirmation by...
Of course, <u>in</u> his offices, if you come across anything, any personal papers of his, anything, however trivial, would you contact me, please... Are his personal effects still at the Palazzo?
Yes. Packed and with an inventory.
I'll have them picked up.
If your duty requires it.
You have a recent scar on the back of your hand.
And you have a new wedding ring on yours? <u>La Vita Nuova</u>?
You looked oddly at me, back on the landing.
Yes, it must be hard to be a policeman. Is it hard? Must one, then, be constantly suspicious?
Why did you look at me that way?
I saw a man in disheveled clothing, but <u>clean</u>. Just dressedin the middle of the...
I saw a man, somewhat <u>fatigued</u>. Quickly dressed, a bit dishevelled. In the middle of the day. An old story. And then I saw the clothing was <u>fresh</u>therefore: a man who dressed at <u>home</u>. And then I remarked the new <u>wedding</u> ring. And so: the <u>story</u> gave me pause. A lovely story. A new, and a beloved <u>wife</u>. I wish you joy.
You assemble this, on the instant, from these few observations?
I'm a historian. It is our task to assemble the seemingly unconnected into the obvious.
...your <u>scar</u>..?
My scar is a warwound.
How so?
Carpaltunnel syndrome. From a life of typing. Commendatore. <u>History</u>, a hazardous profession.
Yes. How did you know?
You resemble a figure from the Della Robia Rondels, in your family's chapel at Santa Croce.
It was Adresa de Pazzi, depicted as John the Baptist. You have seen the chapel?
I have had the honor.
And? Then?
I wonder no longer. You were out of the country.
How could you know?
I <u>sense</u>... The faintest <u>whiff</u> of a perfume, whose <u>base</u>, whose <u>base</u>, whose <u>base</u> is "Hamamelis" ... it is <u>witchhazel</u>such a clean scent. No, not a European scent. I would say it is a scent of the New World. I would say, you have been in America. Have I struck home?
You know America?
...you have <u>brought</u> this perfume... brought this perfume. Back. <u>Back</u> from America. To your New Wife... You have given it to her, and some of... Some of 'her perfume' has found its way back onto you. Lucky man. Lucky man, indeed.
Darling, Dr. Fell. My wife Madame Pazzi.
Enchante.
Dr. Fell is studying for his examination by the Studiolo.
Indeed I am. And the connection, between Dante, and, in fact, between your illustrious forebears... if you'd come with me, I could show you...
Darling...
Well, if you will excuse me. Madame. What a pleasure.
The commissioner is going round the Cafe...
Who does not?
If such there breathe, I'm sure you could <u>unearth</u> him... Your reputation does you honor.
I've left my <u>program</u>...
Take mine. Ah. And is that your <u>wife</u>... Signora. Can it be that you are lovelier, even, than at our last encounter...?
...long overdue.
Back to <u>America</u>...? When first we met you'd just returned from America.
I'm not a scholar, Dottore. But it seemed as if they, as if they...
Yes, I think I amused them. To what do I owe...?
I require...
...yes, yes, yes...
I'd like to walk home with you, and...
Yes, of course, and we'll <u>collect</u> them. I won't be a minute...
Sadly, no. And I find that birth is one of the few things in life which study and a pleasant attitude can not amend. What do you think?
And how do we account for the interest of such a charming man, an interest in Torture?
My husband brought it to me from America.
A wonderful country...
You know it?
I have had many excellent meals there.
And yet, they are not know for their cuisine.
...should love to correct your error.
Well, perhaps sometime we...
My mother told me to ignore the blandishments of charming men.
Then, she, <u>herself</u>, possessed some knowledge of the Greater World...How pleased am I to see you looking so well...
How wonderful of you, to hold that information in your <u>busy</u> mind...
...how so?
...you told me you were studying for your examination by the <u>Studiolo</u>...
And how good of <u>you</u> to remember it. Then, this trip, then, is not a return to <u>America</u>...
No, this is <u>pleasure</u>...
And what was the trip <u>before</u>...?
That, that was <u>business</u>...
S'hotter inside than it is <u>outside</u>...even with the air conditioning.
You nervous...?
Evone tells me: I shoulda been in, fi, six, months ago.... thizz my first checkup.
Gonna be fine. You ask your momma.
....I didn't realize I said it out loud.
Said what?
I'm an orphan.
Well, then, you're a lucky girl, cause that baby's gone to be your family. ...I've got an appointment....
Waal...
It gets, um... it gets so lonely sometime.
What'd you say, hon...?
I said sometime it gets so...
Well, don't you worry, cause that <u>baby's</u> gone take care of <u>that</u>.
Waited too long, hon...?
How's your <u>child</u>?
I said how's your baby...?
You want to <u>hold</u> him...?
Waal...
'bout time you <u>learned</u>...
Give it up, Evelda.
Well, you know <u>my</u> name, honey, but <i>I</i> don't know <u>yours</u>...
Give it up.
Hey, you know, I never thought of that...
Just a moment. Starling didn't...
Well, well, well, well, well, she went <u>in</u> there, to apprehend a Dangerous Felon. Went in there with her gun, Came out, <u>without</u> the Felon, with<u>out</u> the gun...
I had... one moment, I had an <u>agent</u> in there, waiting for <u>backup</u> from...
...she couldn't act on her own..? Where is the FBI's vaunted Initiative, where..?
I think that's... {HE STARTS TO RISE, AND THE MEETING BEGINS TO BREAK UP) Starling, I'm sure these gentlemen...
And how did she get close enough to disarm you?
She threw a punch at a man on the team.
Well, you know, that happens, on the street.
What is that supposed to mean...?
I think its meaning is clear.
What, you're saying she was overwrought.
That could be.
Because that's understandable, because. She blew the raid.
She was there, alone, sir, she was in a burning building, waiting for your folks to come through the wall. And...
One moment, I'm not done with you... Give him the file...
Your girl's a menace. Here, givver <u>this</u>... Getter off the street and teach her some <u>humility</u>.
I don't <u>think</u> so...
Well, then, you have insufficient information. I'm grateful for this opportunity to set you straight.
Sir:
Shut up, Starling...
I could have acted on my own. I was told...
Starling, I've ordered you to shut...
..I was <u>instructed</u> that this was a Joint Task Force, the FBI, BATF, and the Mayor's Special...
I don't mind being the token <u>woman</u>, what I'm suggesting, send me out there with a token <u>man</u>... who are these Warriors, our cobbled together Strike Force? I'm in the room with a fugitive felon...
Starling...?
One moment, and they're at the <u>Seven</u> <u>Eleven</u>. They botched the fallback plan, they...
Why would you say that? Because he sent me in there to be killed...? What <u>is</u> this...?
...what's he got against you?
He once made me an improper suggestion.
Look at this:
You seen John Brigham...?
This just came in, over the transom. Fella, works for a Plastic Surgeon, Argentina. Look here:
...what'm I looking at...?
A fellow with five fingers.
...standard issue...
Not for our Doctor Lechter. This... Purports to be an xray of the hand of a ...white male...mmmm....mmmm...., after the removal of a vestigial sixth digit. Left Hand. It purports to be the xray of Dr. L...
Am I on that case, sir...?
No.
Well, thenI wouldn't want to be taken for a <u>hobbyist</u>...
Yes sir, I saw it.
We have a memo here, from your friend Mr. Krendler at the Justice Department.
I am all attention.
He requests your presence, once again, as part of...
I know you did what you could.
I'm going to work for your reinstatement...
Reinstatement to <u>what</u>? There ain't nobody there...
No, I think he proffers to spend his happy hours with his playmates.
...young boys, still...?
...here's to child abuse!
Mmm...
...and then, he'll be coming down.
You said the <u>bad</u> news...
Yes, I did.
I believe that your tone implied that there was some <u>good</u> news.... and, do you know... there might be good news for <u>you</u>...
Oh, yes, what? You'd <u>bribe</u> me, to, to, to, "release" you...?
I can make you rich.
And I expect you to. Let's talk like two medical men
Come on, stay with us. Look here: I could get behind you, and give you a <u>spinal</u>, tomorrow, you wuunt feel <u>anything</u> down there, a l'il <u>pulling</u> is all. N'I'll tell you <u>what</u>, after he's got his jollies, ten, f'teen minutes, I'll come down here, give you a shotta <u>this</u> stop your heart, an that's <u>you</u> done, an there's an <u>end</u> to it. What do you say...? I know you got lotsa money, evabody says so. I know how that stuff works, take it out, move it <u>around</u>... ...stay with me now, <u>fuss</u> with it... Whatsay we call your banker now, tell him a <u>code</u>... move that money to me, he <u>confirms</u> it, and I fix you up Right Now... Whatsay?
..suitcase...locker...
Come on, Doctor, <u>then</u> you can sleep...
...unmarked hundreds....
....what...?
...fraid, that's about it, Doctor.
Let the girl go.
Why?
For a consideration.
'fraid it's too late.
Agent Starling, would you come with me...?
The children...?
...they're from Baltimore....
I've never heard that he...
It's not something he wants to publicize, Ma'am. It's just something he does.
I won't take much of his time.
He's glad to help. ...it's just a question of his physical condition. You Understand...
What would <u>that</u> be?
He... would consider it a favor if he could make a <u>donation</u>. To a charitable institution of your choice.
Now, why in the world would he do that?
I... think... he was.... he was <u>touched</u>, by your reaction. To his appearance.
What reaction?
Exactly.
Please, I do not... I don't want to <u>trouble</u> him. But if you or he have any notlon, who would be buying Dr. Lechter's...
Do you know the <u>seller</u>?
We've subpoenaed the Auction House's records.
Try Barney Clark.
He is...?
He was the orderly, during Dr. Lechter's stay in Prison.
And how would you know that?
Before "The Change," Mr. Verger was... he made quite a study.
You should get the kids a <u>dog</u>...
....I hardly <u>think</u> so... after "The Incident"...
No, no, of course not.
...Mr. Verger would be pleased to make a contribution, to the charitable...
Tell him to give it to an orphanage.
He don't like popcorn.
No. And...
I like Popcorn...
...yes, if you'll, just step <u>away</u>...
You give me whatever I want...?
Yes. You know I will. That's right.
Awright.
The identity of the person offering the bounty was never established.
Yes, but we know who it was, and I will tell you, Agent Starling, what you know to be true. I offered the bounty. It was illegal, and, worse, it was <u>wrong</u>. And I thank God every day that I did not compound my sinful life by the stain of a murder. Do you Agent Starling: do you know <u>God</u>?
Can we identify it as Dr. Lechter?
Not with any certainty we...
Why did he come back?
Our operatives in Brazil have been empowered to offer a reward of....
...WHY DID HE COME BACK? WHY DID THE BOY TURN BACK...?
...are you alright, sir...?
HE TURNED BACK INTO THE ROOM. Where have we Seen it Before.
Seen what, sir..?
The puppy comes back. If you lie on the ground. The Puppy with return. Why? Do you know why...? TO KILL YOU. IT THINKS YOU HAVE FALLEN AND ARE POWERLESS. IT COMES BACK TO TEAR YOUR THROAT. THAT'S WHY THE CHILD TURNED BACK. As Lechter will return back. You see? To the sight of his oppressor <u>wounded</u>. He will return to savage our beloved Miss Starling. Bring me a drink.
<u>Do</u> it...
...Let's see the pigs, please.
Where was the call from.
Somewhere in Italy.
Make plans for Lechter's abduction.
...then we won't need to tether Miss Starling as our lure.
That operation has begun. Are we God, that we would <u>Meddle</u> with it...? <u>No</u>, on the <u>other</u> hand...
...sir...?
Waal, Nobody's <u>Perfect</u>... What do we hear from our songbird in Switzerland?
If you would see him monument, look around you.
Show me the Pigs.
He escaped...
Have the child taken to bed.
What do you want me to do?
Follow Starling, stake out Starling. Increase the pressure on Starling. He will come to her.
...thank you... And how are you this evening, Doctor? No, we know that you're awake...
Good evening, Dr. Lechter. Thank you for coming. I am sorry that we could not meet under more pleasant circumstances.
..It won't be long now, sir...
OHFORGODSAKE, get ON with it.
How was America?
Bad coffee, and women with excessive ankles.
...nightmare.
What's up...?
Doctore Carlo Fanelli, curator of the Pallazo Capponi, 2 months missing.
Yeah, so where is he?
Somewhere where his family are offering a thirty grand reward for Information, so on.
They got that kind of money?
Their family owns...
What else did I miss...?
Atrocious Torture. Hit of the Season, you want, I know a guy can get you a ticket.
...are they hard to get?
Impossible.
...what a world.
Hold up a minute...
You spend the afternoon in Bed?
First things first.
You take this much time over everything?
That's why my wife adores me.
Who, can you think, who would want to harm Dr. Fanelli, did he have any <u>enemies</u>, that...
...I have never met a man who was so well beloved.
...he was <u>wealthy</u>...
He had nothing. He lived in a garret. His work was his life, he...
...his family has offered a large reward.
..who would benefit from his disappearance? <u>No</u> one. No one has but lost by it...
...would you excuse me...?
Bad beat today.
Hey, I'm fine. Whaddizit, you, how's your day, our gallant International Neighbors...?
Evelda Drumgo.
COULD I GET A <u>DRINK</u>, N'I don't <u>care</u>, you see, what all they got me doin, for I'd rather be doin' <u>makework</u>, than be doin' <u>pub'l'relations</u> with THE DIRTY DOZEN, one <u>Hispanic</u>, one <u>Librarian</u>, one <u>Jew</u>, and One from Column A, and One from Column... Thank you.
C'mon, pal.
All y'got to do is <u>ask</u>...
You want to get married...?
You tol me you wuunt ask me again til I'm ready....
You're ready now.
I'm not.
That's what <u>you</u> think...
Then you tell me, then.
You want me to solve all your problems tonight...?
I feel... I feel they're Out to <u>Get</u> Me...
And who is "they?"
...they're sending me. Out to get Shot. Hounding me.... they're...
...the whole world's out to get you...
How crazy is that.
Well, you wanna shoot <u>back</u>, it give you a big <u>target</u>...
How <u>crazy</u> is that....
Hard up as you are, at your age? Whadda <u>you</u> care? Surrender.
~Don't shoot, GMen..."
How you doin?
M'I gonna see you tonight?
That's right.
Then I'm doing fine.
What's new onna street?
All Quiet Along the Potomac...
Brigham. Go. Affirmative. Okay, Happiness is a Green Light. We've got Evelda in the kitchen, cooking. The dope's D.E.A. <u>We</u> want her on Interstate Transportation of some firecrackers. Starling: you've got Drumgo, you know her from before.
I know her by the Back.
...these guy'll back you up.
What, What, I can't hear you...
Are you <u>alright</u>...?
I almost shot the <u>baby</u>...
Who called the <u>TV CREWS</u>...?
You know why that is? Because there are so few things I need to forget. Would you agree, for the record, that I have not been read my rights?
I have not read you your rights.
Would you mind saying that into your bag...?
I hereby acknowledge that...
And now I have "dociled" you, have I not? By forcing your obedience.
Then why did you chose to <u>inform</u> me of it...?
To <u>show</u>... in my ability to <u>squander</u>. What one might deem an <u>advantage</u>... that my <u>strength</u> is greater than <u>yours</u>...
Oh yeah? Wanna arm wrestle...?
If you'll come down the street I will make you a cup of coffee.
Well. Word gets around.
...what <u>hindered</u> you...?
It wasn't my day.
Perhaps you did not have the <u>support</u> you required.
It's a poor workman who blames his tools.
Or, perhaps...
...how are things at the Hospital?
It's a growth business.
What have they got you doing?
Orderly.
I would have figured you an R.N. by now, or, maybe Med School.
I prefer to stay in the Less Frivolous professions.
You lasted eight years, as Orderly, in Dr. Lechter's prison ward.
Yes, I presumed it was about him.
...you...
I'm struck by your phraseology. I did not <u>last</u> with him. I was privileged to enjoy his company during that time.
I'm looking for...
He said, and these were his words, he <u>valued</u> our time together, because I was civil.
Did you ever think, did you think, after he escaped, he would come after you?
He told me, he preferred to Eat the Rude. Or: "natural composting." Do you think he'd come after <u>you</u>...?
I asked you how you like your coffee...? We have black and bitter. As the Soul of Man. Or light and sweet, as the world view of the selfdelusive.
We got a bunch of <u>materials</u>, coming up at auction. Materials which disappeared from Dr. Lechter's cell, drawings he made, his <u>books</u>.
Yes?
And I'd like your help, determining who's bidding for their purchase.
Why me?
Waal, because your <u>selling</u>'em... Two years ago, his annotated Dictionary of Cuisine, by Alexander Dumas, went for sixteen thousand dollars. Seller's affidavit of ownership, signed Cary Panz. P.A.N.Z. Sounds to me like an Orderly. Whadja clear on the book? Ten, twelve grand?
...very good.
Here's what they want you to do: we want the rest of the stuff you stole from his cell.
...why?
Let's just say they got a passion for collectibles...
You said "here's what <u>they</u> want you to do..." Why?
Now, whyn't you help us?
That would adversely impact my income.
Not as much as being jailed for theft of Government Property, or for failure to pay income tax, on undisclosed income.
We could skip the Gavotte.
Say it in English.
Lechter's not buying up his Memorabilia. He keeps it all in his "mind," do you see...?
Then who's buying it?
There's one or two freaks, and, for a "<u>Pass</u>," I'll rat them out to you...
<u>That's</u> the spirit...
...aren't you afraid of me...?
You want me to be?
I'd prefer it... But it's just a vacant exercise.
You said "here's what <u>they</u> want you to do." Aren't you part of them anymore...? Aren't you part of the FBI? 'No Girl's Allowed,' or <u>what</u>? Have you transgressed...?
Let's keep it to business, shall we?
...why have they stuck you on this silly little roust?
...they did it for a lark.
Oh, Good. The ornithological leitmotif...
<u>Who</u> are these guys...?
Rich, comic book freaks.
And why is it a vacant exercise?
Because we both know who's buying the Lechteriana.
Who would that be.
Mason Verger. For he cannot be free. Dr. Lechter refashioned his body so it mirrors his soul, what an impossible injustice. Can <u>you</u> be free....?
No, you're wrong about Verger.
Oh, yes. He's found Peace.
Well, if he hasn't, I'm vastly mistaken.
And have <u>you</u> found Peace..?
Aren't you glad to see me?
Tell me about your trip... what did you <u>bring</u> me...?
I can't think.
...you don't have to think.
We have to talk about <u>money</u>...
I'm on the track of a reward, which...
A reward...
I'm going to tell you later....
A reward for what?
Some museum director disappeared.
And?
They're offering...
...you haven't <u>found</u> him yet.
<u>What</u> is this, a whorehouse, or are you my <u>wife</u>?
You've gone off to America, on your <u>Vacation</u>...
...I was <u>working</u>...
...<u>please</u>...
I <u>swear</u> to you...
...and I want to talk to you about your <u>promotion</u>..
Yes? My <u>promotion</u>...?
I want to talk to you about your <u>salary</u>. Because I can't...
What makes you interested in becoming a Hare Krishna?
Well, I'm not saying that I want to join or anything, but...but I know you guys believe in reincarnation, you know, so it interests me.
Yeah, well, what's your religion?
Well, I was born Jewish, you know, but, uh, but last winter I tried to become a Catholic and...it didn't work for me. II studied and I tried and I gave it everything, but, you know, Catholicism for me was die now, pay later, you know. And I just couldn't get with it. And I, and I wanted to, you know. I
You're afraid of dying? MICKEY Well...yeah, naturally. Aren't you? I Llet me ask you, reincarnation, does that mean my soul would pass to another human being, or would I come back as a moose or an aardvark or something?
Take our literature...
Uhhuh.
...read it over, and think about it.
Well, okay. Thank you very much.
You're welcome. Hare Krishna.
Oh, my God. Thank you.
I need an antihistamine. Mom thinks she's feeling her asthma, and so...
Yeah, Mom's Camille when she gets up in the morning.
At least she isn't drinking. Did you notice?
Mmhm.
Yeah, she knows it, too, 'cause she's flirting with all the men here.
God.
Yeah.
Get a garter belt... Get a garter belt and flirt.
Where are the antihistamines?
Dad...
Oh...
Dad!
Hi.
...which I did not get.
Thanks. But guess who was there auditioning?
April?
Yeah, well, she and an architect are now a very definite item, which I still cannot believe.
Hmm.
Oh, please! We all came to have lunch, didn't we?
Yeah, okay, right. Forget it. What's to eat?
Boy...Holly...Holly.
I just want a salad. You really think I'm a loser, don't you?
Why are you so upset?
You know, you've been picking on her ever since she came in here. Now just leave her alone for a while! I'm just suffocating.
Oh, why are you making those faces?
I can't hear you. I can't hear anything. I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm gonna lose hearing in my ear! I'm
Listen, you are witnessing genius!
I, I, my ears are experiencing a meltdown! I can't hear anything.
Look, can't you feel the energy? It's tangible energy! The room's alive with positive vibrations!
Don't, no, please. Will you No, don't...
You want some?
Come on, Mickey. Come on.
But, no, you've been doing that all night! You're gonna...you're gonna burn a hole in your... You're gonna develop a third nostril! Really, don't, please.
Can we, can we go?
No!
Myuh...
I love songs about extraterrestrial life, don't you?
Not when they're sung by extraterrestrials.
Oh, well, I cannot communicate with you! I, you know, I never realized you were such a tightass. MICKEY I can't understand you. Your sisters, both sisters have such good taste in music. I don't know where you went, went wrong.
Do you mind? I'mI'm my own person.
Can I take you someplace to hear something nice?
Eh, Mickey, it's getting late.
Now come on, you're be, 'cause you're being angry at me.
Thanks for a swell time.
Well, if you didn't like it, you didn't like it, but you didn't have to talk while the guy was singing.
I was so bored!
Yeah, that's tough! You don't deserve Cole Porter. You should stay with those groups that look like they're gonna stab their mother!
At least I'm open to new concepts!
And you don't have to snort cocaine at the table all the time! What do you, what do you do? Carry a kilo around in your purse?
This crowd wouldn't know the difference! They're embalmed!
Jesus... I'm glad Hannah got us together. You know, she's got a great instinct for people. Really.
Oh, look, I'm sorry it didn't work out.
Yeah. Me, too.
You know, it's probably my fault. I've been a little depressed lately.
Right. Yeah. I had a...
God!
...I had a great time tonight, really. It was like the Nuremberg Trials.
Mmm, I don't know if you remember me, but we had the worst night of my life together.
I remember you.
Yes, you do recall, right?
I recall you.
I was walking past and I saw you in here...
Yeah.
...and I thought I'd come in and...and we could replay, uh, the whole, uh...
We didn't hit it off.
Oh, that's putting it mildly. We did everything but exchange gunshots.
How are you?
Good. How are you?
I'm fine.
You look wonderful.
Oh, no.
Yeah, really. You do. You do.
Yeah?
It was a terrible evening.
Yeah, it was.
Remember slamming the cab door in my face and.. you know, it came very dangerously close to emasculating my nose in a...
I'd never do that.
...in a really horrible way.
Oh, well, that was a long time ago.
You look wonderful. You do. What happened to you?
People change...you know.
Well, I hope you've changed.
Yeah, I hope you have, too. MICKEY I hope so for your sake, because, uh, your personality left something to be desired...
Yeah, and for yours. I'm sure you've changed.
...namely a personality.
So how are you?
I'm okay.
You didn't answer my question. What are you doing?
Oh, nothing much. You know...
Well...
...just some stuff. A little of this, a little of that, that's all.
Yeah? Is that an embarrassing question? Should I have not asked it?
Probably not.
Are you, are you out of work or something?
No, well...I've been trying to write.
Have you?
Yeah.
Well, that's interesting. Whwhat kind of stuff?
Oh...well, youyou're not interested in this.
No, you can tell me.
Come on.
No, I am. I am.
Oh, no, millions of people come up to you and say, "Hey, I have something I just wrote," right?
Nobody ever said it.
Really?
This is it. Yeah. This is really HOLLY Well, wowould you be willing toto read it? Something...that I wrote?
Well, yes, I would if, uh, if it would mean anything to you. I don't know why it would.
No, the reason I ask is
You've always hated my taste in the past.
No, I haven't.
You have.
I haven't. No, the reason why I ask is I think it might make a great, uh, television script, and, you know, you're so active in television, so
I'm not anymore. I haven't, I haven't been in television for a year.
You're kidding me.
I've done no television whatsoever. No.
I may, I may have to get back into it, 'cause my accountant says that I'm running out of dollars. But...but, um, no, I haven't, I just sort of dropped out for a year...
Oh. Oh.
...which is a long, dull story and I won't get into it. But
You're okay, though, huh?
I'm Yes. Yes, I'm fine. I'm fine. How are you?
Oh, I'm fine.
What...what about your script? So what's it about?
Well, I'd love it if you'd read it, actually, 'cause I really would value your opinion.
You have to remember, wewewe didn't agree on one thing.
But you have to remember while you're reading and you're cursing my name, you know, that this is my first script. Well, it's not my first script.
Hmm.
Actually, my first script was about Hannah and her husband, but, uh...
Yeah.
...Hannah read it, she got really angry, and... you know, then I felt badly, so I
Oh, well, God, I can imagine what you wrote.
Oh, no! It wasn't anything bad. But she just... you know. I don't know.
Really?
So, uh...I threw it out, but I have this other one.
Well, you know, III...you know, if you want me to, I'll read it.
Oh, gosh, I don't know. Well, could I come over tomorrow and read it to you?
Come over tomorrow and read it to me?
You must be joking. I've been doing all my own reading since I was forty...you know.
Hmm. I think it's lucky I ran into you. Maybe.
Well, what about me?
Oh, well.
I should have kept going. II have a sneaking feeling, a nagging sensation I should've kept walking and...
No, you can tell me straight. It's okay. Just, you know, tell me what you think.
It's great. I swea I'm I'm, tch, I'm speechless. I was...I was not in the mood to listen to this thing now. I don't know what to say. I'm moved and I laughed and I Uh, I, you know, I was on the edge of my seat. I just think it's wonderful! I'm, I'm totally...stunned. This is not an insult. I'm amazed that you can... It was I just thought it was great.
Really?
Yes! I was abso And...w what...made you think of that climax scene where the, where the... architect is walking home with his actress girlfriend andand the ex wife who's schizophrenic jumps out of the bushes and stabs him to death?
Oh, it just came to me one day.
Well, it was just fabulous! I'm, I, you know...
Oh, gosh, you really think I can write?
I thought it was wonder There's maybe one or two things in there that I would do differently myself, but...
Right.
...but who cares? It was just It was fabulous.
Oh!
Fabulous, I mean it! I'm so impressed.
Oh, God!
I am. Youyou made my day.
Oh, wow!
It was just great. Uh, I was all set...I was set to be bored stiff.
Uh, gee. Would you like to have lunch? Uh, uh...
II would love to talk to you about, uh, that script. II, you know, I think maybe that we could do something with it.
Okay, and listen, I would like to hear what made you suddenly decide to drop out of life.
Oh, who cares?
Yyou used to Oh, no! Yeah, I care. You used to be so ambitious and... God, you really liked it?!
Gosh, you really went through a crisis, you know that? Hhow did you get over it? I mean, when I ran into you, you seemed, you seemed just perfectly fine. Well, you seem fine now.
Well... I'll tell you. One day about a month ago...
Um...look, there's something I've, uh, that's been bothering me for a long time, and I just thought I'd just tell you what it was and just sort of clear the deck here, and that's this.
Oh, yeah? What?
That I've always regretted the way I behaved that evening we went out, and, uh...I've, I just thought I'd tell you that because I really made a fool out of myself.
Oh, don't be silly! No! Don't be ridiculous.
It's all right.
I was the, I was... You know, it was my fault. I
So, so you want to go out to dinner again? I mean, is that, is that... Have, you have any interest in that, or...
Sure. Sure, uh, yes.
Do you? I mean, are you, are you, are you, are you free this evening?
Yeah.
Now don't get nervous. It's just your husband.
Hi.
Hi. How you doin'?
Okay.
When'd you get here?
Just a few minutes ago.
Oh. You look so beautiful.
Thanks.
You know, I was talking with your father before...and I was telling him that it's ironic. II used to always have Thanksgiving with Hannah...and I never thought that I could love anybody else. And here it is, years later and I'm married to you and completely in love with you. The heart is a very, very resilient little muscle. It really is. I... It'd made a great story, I think. A guy marries one sister... doesn't work out... many years later... he winds up married to the other sister. It's, you know, it's a...
Tch.
I don't know how you're gonna top that.
Mickey?
Mmm, what?
I'm pregnant.
What? You're kidding!
No, no, we decided!
Perfect!
Mmm...I mean, we love to cook for our friends, so we thought until an acting job comes through, we could just make some extra money, you know, doing a few private parties.
Get outta here. Could I speak to you privately?
Oh, sure.
Hannah, I have to borrow some more money. Don't get upset.
Mmm, I never get upset over that. Mmm?
This is the last time, I promise. And I'm keeping strict accounts.
Holly, please. Don't insult me.
Someday, I'll pay it all back.
I know. Hhow much do you need?
Two thousand dollars.
Uhhuh.
Hannah, I know it's a lot, but my friend April and I, we have this catering idea I think's going to be great.
You admit that we're great cooks, right?
Yeah.
Well, in order to get started, there's just a few things I have to buy... and some old debts I have outstanding.
Will you just tell me one thing?
Okay.
Are we talking about cocaine again?
I swear. I swear. We've already got some requests to do a few dinner parties.
Ohh?
Uhoh.
Doesn't she look great in that new dress?
Yeah.
Don't you think she does?
She really does, though.
Maybe when she's eighty, she'll stop straightening her garter belt when there's a guy around.
I should get a garter belt.
Frederick didn't come with her.
When does Frederick ever come with her?
Tch. He's such an angry...he's such a depressive. I thought she was moving out!
Watch out, you guys. Beepbeep!
Oh, your kids are so adorable.
Oh, Hannah!
It's, uh, you never know
He's such a loser!
He's not a loser at all!
Oh, he's such a loser!
He's the headmaster of Daisy's school.
Oh, perfect! He reminds me of Ichabod Crane. His Adam's apple keeps jumping up and down whenever he gets excited. HANNAH Listen. He's a lot better than your exhusband. He's got a good job. Would you light those, please? He'she'she's not a dope addict or anything.
Not this Thanksgiving, you know.
Here. Be careful with those.
Maybe at Christmas, New Year's. If not this New Year's, maybe next New Year's.
Ouch!
Oh!
You know, I just want to look so good, but I don't want to seem, you know, like I'm overdressed. You know what I'm saying? HANNAH Oh, no, not at all.
Well, how about this?
Well, I, I really like that. I think that's a pretty color on you.
Oh, yeah.
He's married...
Ohoh. HOLLY ...and his wife's, uh, in and out of institutions. She's schizophrenic.
Sometimes she's terrific...
Oooo.
...and then she just breaks down. And he has this sweet daughter...and when she goes to college next year, he's going to split permanently. I mean...
Oh?
...he's really paid his dues, but...then she helped put him through architecture school, you know, so...
You found all this, all this out on one date?
Well, I think he was dying to open up. It's so sad. Now...what should I wear to my audition?
I've got a singing audition for a Broadway musical. Of course, I'll never get it.
Singing?
Yeah, can you believe it?
Really?
Well, I mean, why not? You know, whwhat have I got to lose? Uh...
Well, no...II know, I just, uh... No, II, eh, you know, I, I didn't, I didn't know you sung.
Well, you think everybody in m musicals sings so well?
No! No, I, eh, it's just that they sing.
Ohh!
You know.
I know, no I know.
I mean, yyou know, don't say it that way, you know, because my confidence is not my strong point, I
No, I'm sorry. No, I didn't mean that. No, I didn't mean that.
Uh, you know, I think I can fake my way through a song.
Uhhuh.
Easily.
Wwhy? You don't think it's realistic?
No, I didn't, I, that's no. No, I II, no, II just... hate to see you put yourself in a position where, where you get hurt, you know. You know, you know how you take...
Yeah.
...every, eh, single rejection as asas a...a confirmation that you have no talent, or something?
Yeah. Well, maybe I'll get it.
I hope.
Boy, you really know how to cut me down.
What? You don't, don't be so sensitive. Can't I say anything?
Tch, well, I sing! For Chrissake, Hannah, you heard me sing!
Nobody but you can do that to me. I don't know why.
Look, everything's going your way.
Hey, hi!
Well, I just came from an audition...
Awwww...
So what's new?
Boy
They said I was too offbeat looking, whatever the hell that means.
Oh, what do they know?
Oh, gosh.
You got it.
Oh, God...
Yeah, although it's put an end to the Stanislavski Catering Company. Which is why I have to speak to you. And... you're gonna get impatient, but...I have to borrow some more money.
Well, that...ththat's fine.
But what I decided to do is some writing. Yeah, I think I've had it with acting. You know, these meaningless auditions at cattle calls. And I can't handle another rejection. Now let's face it here. I gotta, you know, latch on to something in my life. You knowsomething with a future. I'm not sixteen anymore. It's just...crazy! I've got...an idea for a story. More than one. And I just need a few months, you know, or, uh, a year even.
Well, thatthat's good. It just, uh...it just seems to me thatthat six months or a year, ifif you spent it more productively...
Wellwell, like what?
Well, I don't know. We'd uh, uh, um... Didn't Mom mention there was something...something at the Museum of Broadcasting?
Yeah, that's clerical.
No. She, didn't she say it was, um...she said it was in the publicity department. Thatthat can lead to other things.
Boy, I knew you'd be discouraging.
I'm not! I'm not! I'm trying to be helpful. A person doesn't just say one day, "Okay, nownow I'm finished as an actress. Now I'm a writer." I mean
Yeah, you mean not at my age.
You treat me like a loser.
How?
You never have any faith in my plans. You always undercut my enthusiasm.
Not so! No. I think I've been very supportive. I've...I try to give you honest, constructive advice.
Hmm!
I'mI'm always happy to help you financially. I think I've gone out of my way toto introduce you to interesting single men. There's nothing I would
Uh, losers! All losers!
You're too demanding.
You know, I could always tell what you thought of me by the type of men you fixed me up with!
You're crazy! That's not true.
Hey, Hannah, I know I'm mediocre.
What's the matter with you, Lee? Why are you so sensitive all of a sudden?
Look. Listen. Listen. You want to write? Write.
What's the matter?
Write! Let's just not talk about it anymore.
Good.
Take...take a year. Take six months. Whatever you want. Who knows? Maybe you'll, maybe you'll be sitting with a good play.
Hey, what's the matter?
I'm real upset about what you wrote.
My script?
It's obviously based on Elliot and me.
Oh, so loosely.
No, not "Oh, so loosely"! Real specifically! Is that how you see us?
Well
Can I, can I not accept gestures and feelings from people? Do I, do I put people off?
Wow, I guess I hit a nerve.
You make it sound like, you know, I have no needs or something. You think I'm too selfsufficient?
Now, Hannah, that's not what I meant, you know. Uh, yeah, everybody relies on you for so much. "You're so giving. It's not a criticism. We love you. We're grateful."
You're grateful, but you resent me.
Oh, wow! I don't want to have this conversation. I didn't do anything wrong.
Yyou mentioned to me yourself that you and Elliot were having some problems.
Yeah, we're having some problems, but problems that are my business...which I don't see how you could know about in such detail. How does Lee know about these things? How? They're private!
Well, why don't you share them with us?
I don't...I don't want to bother everyone.
That's the point. I'd like to be bothered.
I don't see how you could know about these things unless Elliot's been talking to you.
No, he hasn't. If I offended you, I'm sorry.
Hey!
...from Mavis, also.
Here, Mom. Drink this. You know, you're awful. You probably were flirting.
No! I like to joke around and have fun, and he gets angry because I get the attention. He's gotten sourer as he's gotten older, and I've tried to stay young...at heart.
You promised to stay on the wagon.
The sacrifices I've made because of that man. He's ruined me with his ego, his philandering, his hishishishis mediocrity!
Okay, stop being so dramatic.
He's the one that's made every ingenue in stock!
Okay, okay.
Thththey, they wanted me for a screen test.
Yeah, I know, Mom. NORMA But I, I knew that he'd get up there and he'd flounder around with his expensive haircuts and hairdos and clothes. He's all show! Now how can you act when there's nothing inside to come out?!
I just had a lot of luck...from my first show, you know? I've always thought Lee was the one destined for great things.
Yes, she's lovely, but she doesn't have your spark. She knows it. She worships you. She wouldn't dare get up there on the stage.
Now, Holly's not shy.
No, Holly's game for anything. Holly takes after me.
True.
I'd have been a great dope addict.
Hi! Hi!
I know...I know.
Glad you could put in an appearance.
I got two minutes.
Very good.
I gotta see new comedians later, I've gotta
Two minutes on your sons' birthday. You know, it's not going to kill you.
Yeah, aren't you like, you know...
Huh?
...a little, uh, hey! A little hug! What is this? Now how 'bout a little action from the kids?
How is everything?
Everything's good. Everything's fine.
Yeah? Yeah? Okay, kids, you can open the presents now.
Here, you guys. Open them up.
Let me get a little reaction here. How's Elliot?
He's fine.
Yeah?
Oh, you know what? I'm trying to convince him to produce a play.
Oh!
I think he'll find that satisfying.
Really? That'll be terrific for him, I think.
I think so.
I like him. I think he's a sweet guy.
Yeah.
The few times that I've met him... Isn't that a great mitt?
Ohh!
Hhe's so awkward and he's clumsy like me...
I know, I know.
...so I, so I like that. I always like an underconfident person...
That's really nice!
...you know? I, uh...
You know, he's been wanting a mitt.
You've always had good taste in husbands, so...
Thanks, thanks.
Mhhm.
That's a beauty!
Isn't that great?
Oh!
Go right over there.
Football!
Come on! Hurry up! Let's go!
Wow!
Go out, go out by the Sung vase and, and catch this.
Gee.
Is there no chance?
This is the second opinion.
Well, then a third opinion.
I'm so humiliated. I don't know what to say. I mean
Could you have ruined yourself somehow?
How could I ruin myself? What do you mean, ruin myself?
I don't know. Excessive masturbation?
Hey, you gonna start knocking my hobbies? Jesus!
Maybe, maybe we can adopt a child. He said you could adopt one
Well, what about artificial insemination?
What are you talking about?
You know, where III would get implanted from aa donor.
What, by a ststranger?
Yeah, they have these banks, you know, where they keep them frozen.
Fro? You want aa defrosted kid? Is that your idea?
I want to experience childbirth.
With a, with a stranger? With a
Just think about it. That's all I ask.
Hannah and I...can't have any children. Now III don't want to get into whose fault it It's my fault that we can't and andand the details are too embarrassing to
Wwwewe've decided after a lot of discussion that wewe'd try with artificial insemination.
Um, II didn't really want to, you know, go to a sperm bank or something, have some anonymous donor. II just, you know, III wouldn't want that.
Right. We felt that if we were gonna do it, that we would like somebody who we knew and who we liked and who was warm and bright and...
Aah... Hey, have you tried Holly and her friend's shrimp puffs?
I think they're fantastic.
You've outdone yourself.
Oh, I don Ask Elliot for that. Uh, he's got them somewhere.
Okay.
Oh, great.
You look so beautiful.
Come on.
Doesn't she look pretty?
I bumped into your...
Oh, yeah?
He was, he's just as crazy as ever. He was on his way to get a blood test.
Hi. Where's Holly?
Hi. She's auditioning for a television commercial. She said she's gonna be a little late.
Oh, yeah? How's she doing?
I hope you tell her it was your idea...
Why?
...'cause every time I try to be helpful, you know, shshe gets so defensive.
Oh, Hannah, she'sshe's just embarrassed in front of you, that's all.
So how are you?
Oh, me, I'm okay.
Do you miss Frederick?
No.
I can't believe Elliot and I can't think of someone nice for you to go out with, you know
How are you?
I'm okay.
You know, how's everything? You doing okay? How's Frederick? I mean, Elliot.
Yyeah.
Oh, he's fine. He'she's, I guess he's fine. I don't know. He's been kinda moody lately, the last few months.
Really?
Yeah. II don't know what's wrong with him. He's just...kind of distant and difficult.
Oh...
I've been trying to talk to him about it. He says everything's fine, but I don't know. Automatically, you know, I leap to the worst conclusions.
Like what?
I mean, I don't know, he's seeing someone else or something, but...
Oh, no! I mean, everyone thinks things like that.
What do? You're being ridiculous.
You are, Holly. Stop it.
Oh, will you stop attacking Hannah?!
Oh, now
She's going through a really rough time right now.
What's the matter? What's the matter with you? You look pale. You okay?
I'mI'm okay. Yeah, III, you know, I...I'm just, um, I got dizzy all of a sudden. I'mI'm...I have a headache.
Yeah?
I think we need to eat.
Hey, Hannah, did you read that last thing Holly wrote? It was great. She's really developed.
I know, she...she really writes good dialogue.
Yeah. I'll get some ice.
Mickey, Mickey, listen, listen.
You know...
Ininininstead of the child molestation sketch, why don't we repeat the Cardinal Spellman Ronald Reagan homosexual dance number?
No
Look at this guy.
Yeah?
Oh, Jesus!
Ron...Ronny, you know you do have to go on in twentyfive minutes.
Nnno, not that.
Hello?
Like
You don't have a brain tumor. He didn't say you had a brain tumor. MICKEY No, naturally they're not gonna tell you, because, well, you know, th, sometimes the weaker ones will panic if you tell 'em.
But not you.
Oh, God! Do you hear a buzzing? Is there a buzzing?
Mickey, come on, we got a show to do!
I can't keep my mind on the show.
But there's nothing wrong with you.
If there's nothing wrong with me then why does he want me to come back for tests?!
Well, he has to rule out certain things.
Like what?! What?
I don't know. Cancer, I
Don't say that! I don't want to hear that word! Don't mention that while I'm in the building.
But you don't have any symptoms!
YouI got the classic symptoms of a brain tumor!
Two months ago, you thought you had a malignant melanoma.
Naturally, I, IDo you know IThe sudden appearance of a black spot on my back!
It was on your shirt!
IHow was I to know?! Everyone was pointing back here.
Eh, you were miserable this morning! We got bad reviews, terrible ratings, the sponsors are furious...
No, I was happy, but I just didn't realize I was happy.
Do you realize what a thread we're all hanging by?
Mickey, you're off the hook. You should be celebrating.
Can you understand how meaningless everything is? Everything! I'm talking about nnnnour lives, the show...the whole world, it's meaningless.
Yeah...but you're not dying!
No, I'm not dying now, but, but you know, when I ran out of the hospital, I, I was so thrilled because they told me I was going to be all right. And I'm running down the street, and suddenly I stop, 'cause it hit me, all right, so, you know, I'm not going to go today. I'm okay. I'm not going to go tomorrow. But eventually, I'm going to be in that position.
You're just realizing this now?
Well, I don't realize it now, I know it all the time, but, but I managed to stick it in the back of my mind...
Yeah. What?
Can I tell you something? Can I tell you a secret?
Yes, please.
A week ago, I bought a rifle.
No.
I went into a store, I bought a rifle. I was gonna... You know, if they told me that I had a tumor, I was going to kill myself. The only thing that mighta stopped me, might've, is my parents would be devastated. I would, I woulda had to shoot them, also, first. And then, I have an aunt and uncle, I would have... You know, it would have been a bloodbath.
Tch, well, you know, eventually it, it is going to happen to all of us.
Yes, but doesn't that ruin everything for you? That makes everything...
...you know it, it just takes the pleasure out of everything. I mean, you're gonna die, I'm gonna die, the audience is gonna die, the network's gonna The sponsor. Everything!
I know, I know, and your hamster.
Yes!
Listen, kid, I think you snapped your cap.
Maybe you need a few weeks in Bermuda, or something. Or go to a whorehouse! No?
I can't stay on this show. I gotta get some answers. Otherwise I'm telling you, I'm going to do something drastic.
Want some coffee or tea?
No, thank you.
How about something to eat?
No, nothing.
Are you sure?
Absolutely.
Mmm, what am I gonna do with you?
God! And why didn't you come tonight? We all had a terrific time. I really think you would have enjoyed yourself.
I'm going through a period of my life where I just can't be around people. I didn't want to wind up abusing anyone.
You're not going to abuse them. They're all so sweet.
Lee... you are the only person I can be with...who I really look forward to being with.
Isn't it enough that I can love you?
Mmm...
Hmm?
...you're such a puzzle. So sweet with me and so...contemptuous of everyone else.
Well, there was a time when you were very happy to be only with me. You wanted to learn everything about poetry, about music.
Mmhm.
Have I really taught you everything I have to give? I don't think so.
Mmm you never know. They might. He's just trying to do the nice thing.
Because he likes you.
Me?
Yeah.
Elliot lusts after you.
Based on what? You never even see him.
...or films you must see or...
Oh, no, no, no. He's my sister's husband. And I think if you gave him half a chance, you'd like him. He's very intelligent.
Big. Frederick, show him the oils.
They're in the basement.
I don't sell my work by the yard!
Oh, Frederick!
What's the problem?
I'm not interested in what your interior decorator would think, okay?!
Lucy and I kept talking, and I didn't realize how late it had gotten.
You missed a very dull TV show about Auschwitz. More gruesome film clips...and more puzzled intellectuals declaring their mystification over the systematic murder of millions.
You know, you've been very nervous lately.
I can't take this anymore.
I'm just trying to complete an education I started on you five years ago.
I'm not your pupil. I was, but I'm not.
When you leave the nest, I just want you to be ready to face the real world.
Like what?
Oh, you know what. I'm suffocating!
Oh! Are we going to have this conversation again?
Yes, we're going to have this conversation again. I...I have to leave. I have to move out.
Why?
Because I have to!
What are you going to use for money?!
I don't know. I thought, maybe I'd move in with my parents for a while.
Tch, oh. I always told you you would leave me. But...does it have to be now?
Well, maybe it'll only be temporary, but I haI have to try.
Oh...Lee, you are my whole world. Good God! Have you been kissed tonight?!
No.
Oh, yes, you have!
No.
You've been with someone!
Stop accusing me!
Oh, Christ! What's wrong with you?!
I'm sorry.
Oh, couldn't you say something? You have to slither around behind my back!
I'm saying it now!
So you met somebody else?
Yeah.
But you, God, you knew that was going to happen sooner or later. I can't live like this!
Who is it?
What's the difference?! It's just somebody I met!
But who? Where did you meet him?
It doesn't make a difference! I have to move out!
You are, you are my only connection to the world!
Oh, God, that's too much responsibility for me. It's not fair! I want a less complicated life, Frederick. I want a husband, maybe even a child before it's too late.
Jesus...Jesus!
Oh, God, I don't even know what I want.
Oh...
Tch, oh, what do you get out of me, anyway? I mean... it's not sexual anymore. It's certainly not intellectual. I mean, you're so superior to me in every way that
I don't understand. I thought that you would be happy.
How can we be happy?
Well, because I never thought of God in my life. Now I'm giving it serious thought.
But Catholicism? Why not your own people?
Because I got off to a wrong foot with my own thing, you know. Bb bbut I need a dramatic change in my life. FATHER You're gonna believe in Jesus Christ?
I know it sounds funny, but I'm gonna try.
But why? We raised you as a Jew.
So, just 'cause I was born that way... You know, I'm old enough to make a mature decision.
Why should I be afraid?
Oh! 'Cause you won't exist!
So?
That thought doesn't terrify you?
Who thinks about such nonsense? Now I'm alive. When I'm dead, I'll be dead.
I don't understand. Aren't you frightened?
Of what? I'll be unconscious.
Yeah, I know. But never to exist again!
How do you know?
Well, it certainly doesn't look promising.
I'll either be unconscious or I won't. If not, I'll deal with it then. I'm not gonna worry now about what's gonna be when I'm unconscious.
Mom, come out!
...this is a toast! This is a toast.
Get his wine away.
This is a toast. You know this beautiful Thanksgiving dinner was all...
I am... I did slave all day.
And we drink to her, and we all congratulate her on her wonderful accomplishment during this last year...her great success in A Doll's House!
I don't know about that. Oh, no, I just, see, II've been very, very lucky. Wwhen I had the kids, I decided to stop working and just, you know, devote myself to having the family, and I've been very, very happy but...I've always secretly hoped that maybe some little gem would come along and tempt me back on the stage...
Yeah.
...just for a second. So, now I got that out of my system and I can go back to the thing that makes me happiest.
Hi. How's she doing?
I am glad to see you.
Don't make it worse, Dad.
Always.
Hi, Mom. How you doing? Here, let me get you some coffee. That's enough of that. What triggered it?
We were making a commercial down at the mayor's office, and there was this young, goodlooking salesman...
I want ice! Who's got some Oh, there it is.
It's on the table, Dad.
Oh, Mom!
Oh, honey!
Mmhm?
Have you tried these? These are wonderful. Holly and her friend made them.
They're fantastic.
Aren't they great?
Your sister is an unbelievable cook.
I know! I know!
She has all the cooking talent.
No, she doesn't, either. You've got tons as well.
Ohhh, but I've eaten five of these.
Great idea.
I know.
That's where your talent lies.
God, Mickey's such a hypochondriac. I wonder how he'd handle it if there was ever anything really wrong with him?
Let's go have dinner, shall we?
Mmm.
You bet.
Holly and April, thanks for helping.
Where're you going?
I've, uh...gotta find, gotta get a phone number in my desk. I forgot to phone Mel Kaufman.
It's so late.
Yeah, I know. II can't believe I forgot.
Are you in a bad mood?
I don't know. Um...I'm just antsy.
Yes. I know. The last few weeks, you haven't been yourself. And tonight at, tonight at dinner, you, you were kind of curt with me.
Was I?
Yes, you were. Aand when I, when I brought up the idea of having a baby, you just, you jumped down my throat.
Well, II don't think it's a very good idea.
Why not?
Because it's the last thing in the world we need right now.
Why do you say that? Is there something wrong?
I don't know.
Well, tell me. Should I be worried?
But, you got four children!
I want one with you.
Well...II think we should wait till things settle.
But what do, what do you what's that mean? Wwwe've been, we've been married for four years. How settled can things get?
You know, yyou have some very set plans on how your life should be structured. Aa house, uh, kids, certain schools, a h, a home in Connecticut. Iit's all very...preconceived.
Yeah, but I...uhI thought you needed that. Whenwhenwhen we met, you said your life was chaos.
III know, but there's got to be some give and take.
Oh, let's notI, I don't know what the hell I'm talking about.
Are you angry with me?
No!
Do you feel, um...are you disenchanted with our marriage?
I didn't say that.
Are you in love with someone else?
My God! Whawhat is this? The Gestapo? No.
Well, what? What, whwhat are you not telling me?
What kind of interrogation... Su supposing I said yes? III am disenchanted. I am in love with someone else.
Are you?
No! But you keep asking these, these awful questions. My God, it'sit's like you want me to say yes!
What, you, of c What are you talking about? Of course not. I'd be destroyed!
Have you been talking to Holly or Lee about us? About ourour personal life?
Me? Of course not. HANNAH There's things Holly wrote about in her script about us that are so...personal they could only have come from you.
I'm not accusing. I'm asking. Do you...do you find me too...too giving? Tootootoo competent? Tootoo, I don't know, disgustingly perfect or something?
No.
Well, what is it then? What? Eh, what's come between us? How have I alienated you?
Hannah, my head is throbbing. HANNAH You never want to talk about it. I Every time I bring it up, you you change the subject. What is it? Do you We're communicating less and less. You sleep with me less and less.
Do you talk to Holly or Lee behind my back? Do you? You must. They they seem to know so much about us.
Well, maybe I've asked advice once or twice oror made a joke.
Well, what do you do? Dododo you talk to Holly, or Lee, or what? Do you, do you, do you phone them?
Leave me alone, can you?!
You matter to me. Completely.
It's hard to be around someone who gives so much andand needs so little in return!
It's so pitchblack tonight. I feel lost.
You're not lost.
Oh, you know, I, I love that book you lent me. The Easter Parade? You were right. It had very special meaning for me.
How's Frederick? He didn't come.
Oh, well, you know Frederick. One of his moods. Although it wasn't a bad week. He uh, sold a picture.
Oh, great.
Really? So, so, what else? Wh what are you up to?
Oh, I don't know. My unemployment checks are running out. Um, I was thinking of taking some courses at Columbia with the last of my savings.
Like, uh...?
I don't know exactly.
Yeah.
...exhusband on the street the other day.
Oh, my goodness!
Oh, Elliot!
Hi.
What are you doing here?
Well, I'mI'm looking for a bookstore.
Oh, what, in this section of town?
Yes. Yeah, II'm kill
You're out looking here?
Well, yes, I'm killing time. I have a client near here and I...I'm quite early.
Ohhhh!
How about you?
Oh. Well, I live
Oh, yes! You live near here, don't you?
Yes, I do.
Where are you headed?
Oh, I was just going to my AA meeting. ELLIOT Oh, my goodness. Well, why do you still go to those? You never tough alcohol.
Well, listen, you didn't know me before Frederick. I'd...I'd start with a beer at about ten in the morning, and...go on.
Oh. You must have been, uh, very unhappy.
Yeah, unhappy and fat. And I still find the meetings very comforting, you know.
I'll never understand it. You're so bright and charming and beautiful.
Oh, God.
I think to myself what problems could she possibly have?
Don't let me get started on my childhood. Oh, you know what? There is a bookstore.
Yes? LEE A couple of blocks from here. If you don't know about it, you should. You'd really love it.
Yes?
Yeah, you would.
Well, iifif you have some free time...
Yeah, sure.
Isn't this great? They have everything here.
Yes, it'sit's wonderful.
What book did you want to buy? ELLIOT What? Book?
Oh, book? Oh, no, I... I'm killing time. I...II just, uh, wwant to browse, uh...
Well, you sure picked the right place. I mean, you can stay here all afternoon, not buy anything and just read.
Unless, of course, ifif you had some time, I mean, we could get some coffee.
No, I don't have time.
No, no. III understand completely. No problem. Yyou're busy. III...
You seem tense. Is everything all right? You feel okay?
No! No...
No?
Uh, yes!
Yes?
Yes.
Everything's okay?
Yeah. How are you?
I'm...all right.
Howhow's Frederick?
Fine. Oh, we went to the Caravaggio exhibition at the Met. It's such a treat to go through a museum with Frederick. I mean...you learn so much. Do you like Caravaggio?
Oh, yes. Who doesn't? Look!
e.e. cummings. I'd like to get you this.
Oh, no, I can't let you get me that. That's too much.
Oh, oh, yes. III'd like to, uh, uh, very much.
No, I don't think so.
II read a poem of you and thought of his last week. A poem of his and thought of you last You'll be fine, though. Lee walks over to Elliot in the center aisle. She looks at the book.
Uh, uh, this is great. I mean, I love e.e. cummings, but I can't let you get this.
Yes, I'd...III'd love, I'd love to get you this.
Well, sure.
Andand maybe, um...maybe we could discuss it sometime.
Well, thanks a lot.
Thanks for showing me the bookstore. Perhaps you could, uh, take me to an AA meeting sometime. Uh...uh, I'd love to see what goes on.
Well, yeah, yeah. You'd love it. It's really entertaining. You'd have a good time. I know you would.
And, uh, ddon't forget the poem on page a hundred and twelve. It reminded me of you.
Page a hundred and twelve.
Bye.
Bye.
How's everything?
Oh, you know...I talked to Hannah this morning on the phone, and she said that you two might be going to the country for the weekend.
Yeah, she loves to go out in the woods.
Oh, yeah.
But I go nuts. It's a conflict.
I have to get my teeth cleaned this week.
Oh, that's nice.
I figured I'd get, uh, Frederick and Dusty together.
Oh, yeah, that's really nice of you.
Yes. This kid, he's earned a trillion dollars.
Oh.
He's got like six gold records.
Oh, speaking of records...I bought that Mozart Trio you recommended...
Oh, youyou have that one?
Yeah.
Oh, I would love to hear it.
Oh, and Holly met a wonderful man who loves opera. An architect.
Oh, that's nice. I'd love to see her wind up settled. She's a tense one.
Isn't that beautiful?
I know this. Bach. F Minor Concerto. It's one of my favorites.
Uh...did you ever get around to e.e. cummings?
Yes, he's just adorable.
They have a very large gay clientele, you know, where I get my teeth cleaned, and...all the hygienists now wear gloves because they're afraid of AIDS.
Oh, right.
Did you ever get around to the poem on page a hundred and twelve?
Yes, it made me cry it was so beautiful...so romantic.
And be ready to make light of the offer if she's unresponsive. This has to be done very skillfully, very diplomatically.
Did you ever read this one?
Elliot! Don't!
Lee! Lee! Lee, I'm in love with you.
Oh!
What are you doing?!
I...I'mI'mI'mI'm sorry. I have to talk to you for... There's so much that I want to tell you.
Elliot!
I have been in love with you for so long.
I was looking for you.
I, I must apologize. II'm, II'm sorry. I'm so mixed up.
Well, how do you expect me to react to such a thing?
Wh, uh, I know, I know but, I am in love with you.
Oh, don't say those words!
II, I'm sorry. I know it's terrible.
Why, you know the situation.
I know! IIII, I realize.
What do you expect me to say?
Hannah and I are in the last stages.
Wh She's never said anything, and we're very close. She'd tell me such a thing.
Wh, itititit, it's so sad. She's crazy about me, but somewhere on the, along the line, I've fallen out of love with her.
Not because of me, I hope.
Oh, no, no. Well, yes! I love you.
Oh, I can't be the cause of anything between you and Hannah. I jus
Oh, no, no, no. It, uh, ititit it was iinevitable that Hannah and I part, anyway.
Why?
Tch, wwell, for a million reasons.
But not over me?
Tch, no! We were, we were both going in different directions.
Poor Hannah.
Butbut, but how about you? Do you, do you share any of my feelings? Or is this just an unpleasant embarrassment to you?
I can't say anything!
Wwell, please be candid. I, II don't want you to feel bad.
Yes! But I...I have certain feelings for you, but don't make me say anything more, all right?
Ooookay, Lee. Okay, okay. You, you, yyou've said enough. It's my responsibility now. I will work things out.
Look, don't do anything on my behalf. I live with Frederick, and Hannah and I are close.
Yes, but you, you do care about me.
Oh, Elliot, please! I can't be a party to this! I'm suddenly wracked with guilt just standing her talking to you on the street!
Your guilt is because you feel the same.
Oh, please, I have to go. I have to get my teeth cleaned.
I thought you weren't coming.
I almost didn't.
Lee... uh...
I didn't sleep all night.
No, nonono, I'm sure.
II couldn't think where to invite you without taking risks.
I promised myself I wouldn't let this happen till you were living alone. I was so torn when you called.
This is not an easy situation.
I know it isn't.
That was just perfect. You've ruined me for anyone else.
I don't want anyone else ever to have you.
I was so worried I wouldn't compare with Hannah.
Oh, my God.
You really do have those thoughts, don't you?
Oh, all the time.
I know she must be a really passionate person.
Yes, she's, she's very warm, but, but itit's me that wants to be giving to you. III want to do things for you. Hannah doesn't need me as much. I'm being presumptuous. Not that you need me.
I want you to take care of me... And I love when you do things to me.
You've been very cold to me tonight.
No.
Is something wrong?
Oh, not here. There are too many people around.
It's over, Elliot. I don't know how to make it any clearer. It's over. I can't see you anymore.
Uh... III know. I deserve this.
Look, I'm just as much at fault.
Ififif you can believe I have such feelings for you!
I've got to be honest with you. I met someone else. I've met someone else. I...I told you I wasn't going to wait forever.
But it hasn't been forever.
It's been nearly a year since our first time and you're still married to my sister, which...I now realize is fine because you're probably much more in love with her than you know.
Yeah, but wewe made so many plans.
Yeah. Uh, well, sure we did. An anand in a way you led me on, because I truly believed you were unhappy with Hannah. Otherwise, I would never have let myself be drawn in. I was very weak. So were you. Now I've met someone else.
And you're in love overnight?
I care a great deal about him, yes.
Lee...
Ah, it's over! Elliot, I mean it. It's over!
You Standards and Practices?
Ed Smythe, yes.
Okay. Why, all of a sudden, is the sketch dirty?
Child molestation is a touchy subject...
Could you
...with the affiliates.
Read the papers! Half the country's doing it!
Yes, but you name names.
We nev We don't name names! We say the Pope.
We
...cannot go on the air.
Hi, Dusty.
Hi.
Are you excited about becoming a collector? DUSTY Yeah.
Yeah?
I got a lot more to learn, though. I really wasn't into art when I was a kid.
Uhhuh.
Frederick's done this whole new series that I'm sure you would really love.
Well, are...are they big?
Yeah. Some of them...yeah, some of them are very big.
'Cause I got a lot of wall space there.
Dusty's just bought a huge house in Southampton and he's in the process of decorating it.
Yeah. It's kind of a weird place, actually. A lotta wall space.
How ya doin', man?
I told him about your work, and he's very excited.
Yeah, I got an Andy Warhol. And I got a Frank Stella, too. Oh, it's very beautiful. Big, weird...you know. If you stare at that Stella too long, the colors just seem to float. It's kinda weird.
What a weirdo that guy is! Paranoid. What's the matter with you?
Look III'll be okay. I'll be okay.
It's not that big a deal. We just didn't hit it off.
Now, look, youyouyou go on ahead.
Are you okay? You look You're sweatin'. ELLIOT Yeah. Yeah, I justjust need so somesome fresh air. It's probably something I ate. I'llI'll walk. You go ahead.
So what's the, uh, problem this time?
This time I really think I have something.
So, so, but it was when I was younger, so
You know, I saw your father this week about his sinus...
Mmhm.
...and, uh, he complained of chest pains.
Well, this guy's the real hypochondriac of the family. I mean, he's, you know, he's
You mentioned on the phone that you'd had some dizziness.
Yes, a little dizziness, and I think, I think I'm developing a hearing loss in my right ear ...or my left ear, my, my left...oh, nnnno. No, I'm sorry. It was my right, my right, my right or my left ear.
Now I cacan't remember.
Let's take a look.
Well, I'm sorry to say you have had a significant drop in the high decibel range of your right ear.
Really?!
Have you been exposed to a loud noise recently, or did you have a virus?
No, II've been perfectly healthy. You know me.
I always, II always imagine that I have things.
When did you first notice this?
Oh, uh, about a month ago. Wha what do I have?
You've had some dizzy spells. What about ringing and buzzing? Have you, uh, noticed any of that?
Yes, nownow that you mention it, uh, III have, uh, buzzing and also ringing. Ringing and buzzing. Um, am I going deaf, or something?
And it's just in one ear?
Yes, is it, is it, uh, healthier to have problems in both ears?
What I'd like to do, is to make an appointment for you at the hospital. I'd like to have them run some tests.
The hospital? What kind of tests?
Now, don't get alarmed. These are just more sophisticated audiometry tests than I can run here. I mean, it's, it's nothing.
Well, if it's nothing, then why do I have to go into the hospital at all? I mean, uh, I hear perfectly fine, so I'm, so I'm a little weak on the, on the high decibels. So I, you know, I won't go to the opera.
You know, there's no reason for panic. I just want to rule out some things.
Like what?
It's nothing. Will you trust me?
Excuse me, are there any more claims?
Only a few. A few. Do you like 'em?
I can't resist.
Really? How flattering! Did you try the shrimp puffs?
Listen, you guys are too attractive to be caterers. Something's wrong.
We're actresses.
Is this your first job?
Really? Is the food that bad?
Oh no. Not at all.
Here, I stole you a couple of extra clams.
Ah! HOLLY Now.
You're Holly.
Yeah, we're the Stanislavski Catering Company.
Now I'm going to tell you the truth. I really came in here because I was bored stiff by the party.
What makes you think we're more interesting?
We saw, um, Pavarotti, eh, uh, in Ernani at the Met, and I cried...
I cry at the opera.
Oh, what, what do you do?
I'm an architect.
Yeah.
What time do you get off?
Yeah.
It's terrific!
The design's deliberately noncontextural. But I wanted to... keep the atmosphere of the street, you know, and the proportions.
Uhhuh.
And in the material. That's...that's unpolished red granite.
Oh, it's just so romantic. I just want to put on a long gown...
Yes.
...and open the French doors and go on the balcony 
And it's got a handsome partner sitting right beside it.
Yeah.
They fit right in together. And your eye goes along, lulled into complacency, and then...
It's really sad.
And it ruins everything else.
It does.
Yeah.
Maybe we should start thinking about going home, huh?
Fast.
Oh, gee, I don't know. Um...
Well...
We could...we could do that.
Right. Yeah, but Fifth is so jammed, isn't it?
Yyou live in Chelsea, don't you?
Yes.
Well, II guess if you live in Chelsea, that's probably first.
Oh, okay.
Oh, that was a wonderful show. I think that's the best show you two ever wrote.
No, the funniest show that Mickey and I ever did was the one we won the Emmy for.
Mmhm.
Yeah, it was funny, it was very funny. But the show was about the two Frenchmen, now that was funny and it was warm.
We got that idea on that trip to Paris.
Right.
Hmm?
Do you remember that summer in France? Hannah, you had jet lag for six straight weeks.
I gave blood before and, uh... clothing to the poor.
Okay, Norman, listen, I really want to talk about this at home. I think it's a matter for your analyst...and mine.
And maybe my lawyer.
I know. It's terrible!
I mean, I've looked everywhere.
No, really, I really like him a lot.
No, really, we mustn't get discouraged.
Hannah will invite some men over who don't look like Ichabod Crane.
Mmm.
We're a big hit.
Oh, in this we're a big hit. Yesterday I auditioned for Come Back Little Sheba. That, I wasn't such a big hit.
Wow, it's the red one?
Oh, it's magnificent!
Oh!
Oh, is that what it is?
Uh APRIL Iiit has an oorganic quality, you know.
Right.
It's almost...almost, uhhh, entirely wholly interdependent, if you know what I mean. II... I can't put it into words. The important thing isisis itit breathes.
It's French, though. It really is.
Yeah.
It feels like you're in France.
That's disgusting!
...a monstrosity! Who would do that?
It's really terrible.
Well...we have seen a lot of stuff today, though.
Yeah.
Oh, geez, yeah.
Okay.
Well, I live downtown.
Yeah, I, we both live downtown.
Uh...
It depends on what way you want to go.
Well, wait. You know what? I know.
Uh...
If...well, if we took the, if we took Fifth, thenthenthen we'd get to your house first, yeah?
Well, sometimes, some, uh...
I mean, it's jammed. If we went... um...
I'm telling you, you sounded great. You, uh, you may be surprised.
Oh, I'm just glad we have a catering job this week. I'm real low on money.
Yeah, we have Mr. Morris Levine's eightieth birthday party on Riverside Drive...or Riverside Memorial Chapel, depending on his health.
Oh, uh, listen, David called me up.
What?
Uh, David called me last night, and he wants to take me to the opera. I didn't know what to say.
You're joking.
No, he called late last night.
I, uh, I'm very surprised.
He wants to take me to see Rigoletto.
And you, youyou're going?
Well, III didn't know what to say. First I said no, but then, he pressed it. He said, uh, he'd taken you once and he really wanted to invite me.
But I'm seeing him.
I know. I said that, but... he said it was something he really felt like doing.
Gee, um... I...I don't know what to say.
Look, it's just an evening at the opera. Did I, II do wrong in accepting?
We need more bread and some baked lasa uh, lasagne. Hi.
I know. You're an actress with a great flair for shrimp puffs.
Uh, no, the shrimp puffs are Holly's. I do the, uh, crpes caviar.
And the quail is responsible for the quail eggs.
Well, let's hope so.
Hi.
Oh.
Wha What kind of things do you build?
Are you really interested?
Yeah.
You know, April, people pass by vital structures in this city all the time, and they never take the time to appreciate them. I get the feeling you tune in to your environment.
Oh
What are your favorite buildings, David?
You want to see some?
Oh, yeah.
Well, let's do it.
Great.
That's just 
Look at this.
Yeah.
A lot of works.
Uh, who gets dropped first?
Uh 
Yeah.
And then, uh, April...huh?
Great.
...any sister talk?
Mmmm!
Oh, good...
Come in, come in.
...because there are no interesting single men at this party!
Oh, listen...
Hmmm. Oh, yeah. I met Phil.
Mmm?
He's theHe looks like Ichabod Crane?
I love that. That's my type.
I can't believe it!
...then he gets another physical by the state, and he makes his appearance before the judge. That should take four hours if we're lucky, then we're on our way.
What did you use before?
Thorazin.
He'll barely be able to sit up.
That's the idea. Here we are.
The driveway's a few hundred yards up on your right.
Are there any special instructions?
Just try to understand what we're dealing with here. Don't underestimate it.
I think we should refer to 'it' as 'him.'
If you say so.
Your compassion is overwhelming, Doctor.
Ever done anything like this before?
Only minimum security.
I see.
What does that mean?
It means... I see.
You don't have to make this harder than it already is.
I couldn't if I tried.
The only thin that ever bothers me is their jibberish. When they start raving on and on...
You don't have anything to worry about. He hasn't spoken a word in 15 years.
Pull up to the entrance!
Shouldn't we pick him up?
Move it!
What did he say?
He asked me if I could help him find his purple lawnmower.
I don't think this is any time to be funny...
He said something else. "It's all right now. He's gone. The evil's gone."
I'm not responsible, Sam.
Of course not.
I've given them his profile.
You must have told them we shocked him into a grinning idiot. Two roadblocks and an allpoints bulletin wouldn't stop a fiveyearold!
He was your patient, Doctor. If the precautions weren't sufficient, you should have notified...
I notified everybody! Nobody listened.
There's nothing else I can do.
You can get back on the telephone and tell them exactly what walked out of here last night. And tell them where he's going.
PROBABLY going.
I'm wasting time.
Sam, Haddonfield is a hundred and fifty miles from here. How could he get there? He can't drive.
He was doing all right last night. Maybe somebody around here gave him lessons.
Hello.
Hi, Lindsey, this is Paul. Is Annie there?
Yes, she is.
Will you get her for me?
She's washing her clothes.
Well, go tell her it's me, okay?
Okay.
Everybody has a good time tonight. Okay, kids, what do you want to do now?
Let's make more popcorn.
You've had enough. Why don't we just sit down and watch the rest of this movie.
I'm scared!
There's nothing to be scared of now. Get changed.
Now, I want you to walk to the door, down the stairs and right out the front door.
You're coming with us...
Listen to me. I want you to walk down the street to the MacKensie's and knock on their door. You tell them to call the police and send them over here. Do you understand?
Hey, Laurie...
Hi, Tommy.
Are you coming over tonight?
Same time, same place.
Can we make JackOLanterns?
Sure.
Can we watch the monster movies?
Sure.
Will you read to me? Can we make popcorn?
Sure. Sure.
Yes, I am.
Uhuh. That's a spook house.
Just watch.
Lonnie Elam said never to go up there. Lonnie Elam said that's a haunted house. He said real awful stuff happened there once.
Lonnie Elam probably won't get out of the sixth grade.
I gotta go. I'll see you tonight.
See you.
..."how now, cried Arthur. 'Then no one may pass this way without a fight?' 'That is so,' answered the night in a bold and haughty manner..."
I don't like that story.
But king Arthur was always your favorite.
Not any more.
Why are they under there?
Mom doesn't like me to have them.
'Neutron Man'... 'Laser Man'... I can see why. 'Tarantula Man'...
Laurie, what's the Boogey Man?
Laurie...
I'm so embarrassed. I couldn't face him...
What about the JackOLantern?
After the movie.
What about the rest of my comic books?
After the JackOLantern.
What about the bogyman?
There is no such thing.
Richie said he was coming after me tonight.
Do you believe everything that Richie tells you?
No...
Tommy, Halloween night is when you play tricks on people and scare them. It's all make believe.
I saw the bogyman. I saw him outside.
There was no one outside.
There WAS.
What did he look like?
The bogyman!
We're no getting anywhere. All right, look, Tommy. The bogyman can only come out on Halloween night, right?
Right.
And I'm here tonight and I won't let him get to you.
Promise?
I promise.
Can we make the JackOLantern now?
Tommy, stop it! You're scaring Lindsey.
I saw him...
I said, stop it! There is no bogyman. There's nothing out there. If you don't stop all this, I'm turning off the TV and you go to bed.
Who is it?
Tommy, let me in!
Tommy, I want you to go back upstairs...
What is it, Laurie?
Be quiet! Get Lindsey and get into the bedroom and lock the door!
I'm scared...
DO WHAT I SAY! NOW!
It's the bogyman, isn't it?
HURRY!
Now I want you to change your clothes, Tommy. We're going to take a walk outside.
Was it the bogyman?
Are you sure?
Yes.
How?
I killed him...
But you can't kill the bogyman.
Laurie, you come with us...
No! Do as I say.
It's totally insane! We have three new cheers to learn in the morning, the game in the afternoon, I get my hair done at five, and the dance is at eight. I'll be totally wiped out!
I think you have too much to do tomorrow.
TOTALLY!
As usual, I don't have anything to do.
It's your own fault and I don't feel sorry for you.
I thought you were babysitting tonight.
The only reason she babysits is to have a place to...
Isn't that David Graham? He's cute.
I don't think so...
Annie, some day you're going to get us all in deep trouble.
Totally.
Hi, Laurie, what's up?
Nothing. I was just sitting down for the first time tonight.
Is Annie around?
No. I thought she'd be home by now. She went to pick up Paul.
Well, she's totally not here.
They probably stopped off somewhere. Have her call me when she gets back. I've got Lyndsey here and I want to know what time to put her to bed.
Okay. Later.
Have a good time.
Sheriff? I'm Doctor Sam Loomis.
Lee Brackett.
I'd like to talk to you, if I could.
May be a few minutes. I gotta stick around here...
It's important.
Ten minutes.
I'll be here.
Anybody live here?
Not since 1963, since it happened. Every kid in Haddonfield thinks this place is haunted.
They may be right.
Come on... A skunk could have killed it...
Could have...
A man wouldn't do that...
He isn't a man.
I suppose I do seem a bit sinister for a doctor.
Looks like to me you're just plain scared.
I am. I met him fifteen years ago. I was told there was nothing left, no conscience, no reason, no understanding, in even the most rudimentary sense, of life or death or right or wrong. I met this six yearold boy with a blank, cold emotionless face and the blackest of eyes, the Devil's eyes. I spent eight years trying to reach him and another seven trying to keep him locked away when I realized what was living behind that boy's eyes was purely and simply... evil.
What do we do?
He was here, earlier tonight, and he may be coming back. I'm going to wait for him.
I keep thinking I should call the radio and TV stations...
If you do they'll be seeing him everywhere, on every street corner, in every house. Just tell your men to shut their mouths and open their eyes.
I'll check back in an hour.
Jesus!
You all right?
Sure...
Nothing's going on. Just kids playing pranks, trick or treating, partying, getting high... I have the feeling you're way off on this...
You have the wrong feeling.
You're not coming up with much to prove me wrong.
Exactly what do you need?
Well, it's going to take more than fancy talk to keep me up all night creeping around these bushes.
I watched him for fifteen years, sitting in a room staring at a wall, not seeing the wall, seeing past it, seeing THIS NIGHT. He's waited for it, inhumanly patient. Hour after hour, day after day, waiting for some silent, invisible alarm to trigger him. Death has arrived in your little town, sheriff. You can ignore it, or you can help me stop it.
More fancy talk... You want to know what Haddonfield is? Families. Children, all lined up in rows, up and down these streets. You're telling me they're lined up for a slaughterhouse.
They could be.
I'll stay out with you tonight, Doctor, just on the chance that you're right. And if you are right, damn you for letting him out.
Where were you? I went back to the Myers house...
I found the car! He's here!
Where?
Three blocks down. Get in the car and go up that other street and then back down here. I'm going up the block.
My parents won't be back till ten.
Are you sure?
We're all alone, aren't we?
Michael's around someplace...
I gotta go.
Will you call me tomorrow?
Yeah, sure.
Promise?
Yeah.
Now... First we'll talk a little, then Annie will distract Lindsey and we sneak quietly up the stairs to the first bedroom on the left. Got it?
Okay. First I rip your clothes off...
You idiot!
...Then you rip my clothes off. Then we rip LYNDSEY'S clothes off. I think I've got it.
Totally...
I wonder where they went.
Annie probably took Lindsey out or something. Let's look for a note.
I can't help it. It just keeps ringing.
And I can't keep you interested?
That's great. Now you'll be too drunk to...
Just answer the damn phone.
I can't. What if it's the Wallaces!? We'd get Annie in trouble.
Fantastic. Totally.
Yeah.
Want a beer?
Yeah.
Is that all you say?
Yeah.
Go get me a beer.
I thought you were gonna get one for me.
YEAH?
Get him out of here!
Here, Lester.
Lindsey, Lester's barking again and getting on my nerves again.
No, he's not.
Annie, Paul's on the phone!
Lindsey, open the door! I'm locked in the laundry room!
You locked yourself in.
I know. Pull my legs. I'm stuck.
I'm scared.
Then why are you sitting here with half the lights off?
I don't know.
Well, come on, get your coat. We're going to pick up Paul.
I don't want to.
Look, Lindsey, I thought we understood each other...
I want to stay here and watch this.
Yes.
Come with me.
What's wrong, Annie? You're not smiling.
I'm never smiling again. Paul dragged me into the boys' locker room to tell me...
Exploring uncharted territory?
Shit!
I have a place for that.
I forgot my chemistry book.
I'M baby sitting for the Doyles. It's only three houses away. We can keep each other company.
Terrific. I've got three choices. Watch the kid sleep, listen to Lynda screw, or talk to you.
Look.
Look where?
Behind that bush there.
I don't see anything.
That man who drove by so fast, the one you yelled at.
Subtle, isn't he? Hey creep!
He was standing right here.
Poor Laurie. You scared another one away.
Cute.
It's tragic. You never go out. You must have a small fortune stashed from babysitting so much.
The guys think I'm too smart.
Well, home sweet home. I'll see you later.
Okay. Bye.
Hello?
Why did you hang up on me?
Annie, was that you?
Of course.
Why didn't you say anything? You scared me to death.
I had my mouth full. Couldn't you hear me?
I thought it was an obscene phone call.
Now you hear obscene chewing. You're losing it, Laurie.
I've already lost it.
I doubt that. Listen, my mother is letting me use her car. I'll pick you up. 6:30.
Sure, see you later.
Bye.
You still spooked?
I wasn't spooked.
Lies.
I saw someone standing in Mr. Riddle's back yard.
Probably Mister Riddle.
He was watching me.
Mister Riddle was watching you? Laurie, Mister Riddle is eightyseven.
He can still watch.
That's probably all he can do.
What's the pumpkin for?
I brought it for Tommy. I figured making a JackOLantern would keep him occupied.
I always said you'd make a fabulous girl scout.
Thanks.
For that matter, I might as well be a girl scout tonight. I plan on making popcorn and watching Doctor Dementia. Six straight hours of horror movies. Little Lindsey Wallace won't know what hit her.
I hate that dog. I'm the only person in the world he doesn't like.
What's this big, big news?
What would you say if I told you that you were going to the Homecoming Dance tomorrow night?
I'd say you must have the wrong number.
Well, I just talked with Ben Tramer and he got real excited when I told him how attracted you were to him.
Annie, you didn't. Tell me you didn't.
You guys will make a fabulous couple.
You'll have to. He's calling you tomorrow to find out what time to pick you up.
Annie!
Fancy.
This has not been my night. My clothes are in the wash, I spilled butter down the front of me, I got stuck in a window...
I'm glad you're here because I have something I want you to do. I want you to call up Ben Tramer and tell him you were just fooling around.
I can't.
Yes, you can.
He went out drinking beer with Mike Godfrey and he won't be back until late. YOU'LL have to call him tomorrow. Besides, I'm on my way to pick up Paul.
Wait a minute here...
If you watch her, I'll CONSIDER talking to Ben Tramer in the morning.
Deal. Hey, I thought Paul was grounded.
He was. Old jerko found a way to sneak out. Listen, I'll call you in an hour or so.
Why didn't you wait for me?
We did. Fifteen minutes. You totally never showed up.
That's not true. Here I am.
It's been totally charted.
We just talked.
Sure.
Old jerko got caught throwing eggs and soaping windows. His parents grounded him for the weekend. He can't come over tonight.
Well, are we still on for tonight?
I wouldn't want to get you in deep trouble, Lynda.
Come on, Annie. Bob and I have been planning on it all week.
All right. The Wallaces leave at seven.
What time?
I don't know yet. I have to get out of taking my stupid brother trickor treating.
Saving the treats for Bob?
Funny. See you.
Hi, Annie, Laurie...
Hi, Dad. What happened?
What?
What happened?
Someone broke into the hardware store. Probably kids.
You blame everything on kids.
The only things missing were some Halloween masks, rope, a set of knives. What does that sound like to you?
You're going to be late at the Doyles, Annie.
Huh?
You're going to be late!
He shouts, too.
Rachel, Jamie. Thank God!
What's going on?
Sheriff, what is going on out there?
All right Rachel, you stay by this radio. The state boys will send word once their in route. When that word comes you go tell deputy Logan.
Okay.
Now you understand?
Uh huh.
Sheriff Meeker, we killed him.
Calm down. Calm down. Are you all right? Are you all right?
Jamie! Get away!
Don't touch him Jamie!
Thank you.
Anything for a fellow pilgrim. Sometimes we need help getting where we want to be. Reverend Jackson Pete Sayer of Dumon County, please to make your aquanauts.
How far are you going, Mr. Sayer?
Gods Country, Promise Land. Where are you heading Mr..ah
Loomis. Haddonfield.
Car trouble?
Sort of.
Your hunting it, ain't ya? Yeah, your hunting it all right, just like me.
What are you hunting, Mr. Sayer?
Apocalypse, end of the world, Armageddon. Its always got a face and a name.
I know that Mr. Sayer.
Oh your a pilgrim all right. I saw it on your face back there in the dust. I saw it clear as Breasts and blue suede shoes. Would you like a drink?
I am. Ben Meeker.
Oh, Sheriff Meeker, my name is Dr. ...
Loomis. Folks around here aren't likely to forget your face. At least not cops. So what brings you back here after 10 years?
Michael Myers has escaped from Ridgemont. He's here in Haddonfield.
That's impossible. Michael Myers is an invalid.
He's here, Sheriff.
Why?
10 years ago he tried to kill Laurie Strode, and now he wants her daughter.
Are you talking about Jamie Lloyd?
Where ever she is, that little girl is in mortal danger.
Myers has been locked up since before she was born. He's never laid eyes on her.
Six bodies, Sheriff! That's what I have seen between here and Ridgemont. A filling station in flames. I'm telling you Michael Myers is here in this town. He's here to kill that little girl and anybody that gets in his way.
Hank, call the troopers and check his story out. And assuming what you say is true..
Its true, Sheriff.
All right, all right. Its true, what the hell can we do to avoid a repeat of what happened 10 years ago?
Find this little girl, get her somewhere safe. Call the local T.V. station. Tell them to get people off the streets and behind locked doors.
When he makes that call.
All right. Pierce, do it. Lets check on this little girl.
Something?
He's been here.
How do you know?
This is starting to spook me.
Least I'm not alone.
Is that him? Is that him?
Yes.
Oh Christ. Doc...
Dear God.
Oh Christ. They wouldn't have given up without a fight.
They didn't know what they were fighting.
How can a man do this Loomis? Tell me.
It isn't a man.
What is he? Tell me! What the hell are we dealing with?
Evil.
It was Michael Myers. He's come home to kill.
Let it be Earl. Let the police handle it.
You son of a bitch, you just created a lynch mob.
You haven't got a police force! These men may be the only defense you've got.
Where's that Deputy?
Be here in a minute.
Where's the radio?
Right through the kitchen you'll see the basement stairs. Brady, you know how to use a gun?
How's it powered?
Batteries. I planned the generator for the house next week. I wished I hadn't waited. This is squawk 79er zero of Haddonfield broadcasting on the state police emergency frequency. Can anyone hear me?
It's over.
Yes. Michael Myers is in hell, buried, where he belongs.
These kids aren't likely to forget.
They've survived this ordeal, they'll survive it's memory.
Logan, I want you to stay here in case the family gets back.
Right here, Ben.
You look sharp. You understand?
No problem, Sheriff.
132 to 133 this is 134.
This is 132, over.
BenuhI just heard about the station.
Go to my house. We'll call the state force from there.
I'll be there in 5 minutes.
You got your riot gun?
Yeah in the trunk of my squad.
Go get it.
Get the outside shutters.
What are we doing?
Making sure that no one can get in here.
Isn't this all a little paranoid?
If you'd seen that police station you wouldn't even ask.
Now I pad locked the back door, this is the only way in and out of this house. You got that?
Got it Ben.
I'll be out on gateway and I doubt I'll be back before the troopers get here.
Maybe you ought to wait here till they do.
Hey. I got a town full of beer bellies running around in the dark with shotguns. Who's gonna be next? Somebody's wife? Somebody's kid?
Hell of a night.
Its not over yet.
Where are you going?
The Corruther's house. That's where Jamie lives, that's where he'll go.
Leave Myers for the state boys.
The state police won't know how to stop him.
Do you?
Maybe nobody knows how to stop him, but I've got to try.
You remember Lindsay don't you?
Hi Jamie.
You know Rach, Discount Mart is having a sale on Halloween costumes.
No. Brady's working there till 6:00 today.
I know! Don't you want to talk to him?
I don't want to look pushy.
You won't look pushy.
Well I don't want to come on too strong. A guy hates a girl to come on strong. Fragile egos and all of that.
You won't come on too strong.
Well I don't want to seem desperate or anything.
Fact it Rach, you are desperate. Your just going to go in and buy a costume for Jamie. Perfectly legit.
I don't know.
Well do I drop you off at the Discount Mart or the Dairy Queen?
Jamie?
Call me.
Okay, bye.
Hi Rachel.
Hi.
I didn't know you and Brady had anything okay?
You knew. You just didn't care.
He's not married. Besides, I've got a right to do what's best for me.
Don't you mean what you do best?
Wise up to what men want Rachel, or Brady won't be the last man you lose to another woman.
Rachel, take your sister upstairs. First door on the right.
Dad, what's going on?
Kelly, I want you to close and lock all the downstairs windows.
Why?
Just do it.
That's all the windows, Dad.
All right. Good Good. Logan I want you right here by the front door. This is the dead bolt key.
Why don't you go make some coffee.
All right.
What are you doing out here alone?
Everybody's dead. I just wanna go home.
Oh no you can't. I've just been there. That's the first place he'll look for you. Where's the school house? Where is the school house?
We'll hear sirens soon.
Then we'll be safe?
Yeah.
You don't believe that do you?
No.
Kido. It's four in the morning.
I can't sleep.
What is this? Four nights in a row? You going for a record here? The seven year olds insomniacs hall of fame?
Do you love me Rachel?
Oh, serious questions tonight. Of course I love you.
Like a sister?
Jamie, sometimes it's...
Like a real sister?
We're not real sisters Jamie, but that doesn't mean I love you any less.
Sure it does.
I know you miss your parents, its hasn't been that long.
It's been eleven months.
Your mother used to babysit me when I was your age. I bet you didn't know that.
Your lucky. I wish she could do the same for me.
Come on Jamie, lets go back to bed. Come on Sunday.
Sure it is. I think tonight Brady was ready to make a commitment. But now my future relationship, my engagement, my marriage, my children, your grandchildren, have all been wiped out because I have to baby sit tonight.
I'm sorry I ruined everything. If I wasn't here you could go out.
Jamie, I'm sorry. I didn't mean it like that. I can go out with Brady tomorrow night. Its no big deal.
But you wanted to go out tonight. It's my fault that you can't.
Well tonight we're going to do something better. We're going to go trickortreating.
I don't want to.
It's Halloween. I mean don't you want to get dresses up in a really scary costume and get some candy?
How about this afternoon I pick you up from school and we go get ice cream?
Double scoops?
Double scoops. Now lets get some breakfast.
Hi.
You ready for some Ice Cream?
I wanna go trickortreating like the other kids.
But I thought you didn't want to go trickortreating.
The Discount Mart. Can we get Ice Cream after?
You bet.
Come on Rachel.
In a second.
Jamie, what happened?
It was the nightmare man
What?
He's coming to get me Rachel.
Rachel, can I go get my costume on?
Yeah, hurry up.
Come on Rachel!
Coming.
I thought you said you were ready.
I'm ready. I'm ready. Okay, let's go.
Jamie, wait for me.
This is great Rachel. Come on.
Had enough?
No way! Halloween's great. Can we stay out all night?
Forget it kido. We're home by eight o'clock.
Can we go home soon Rachel?
Real soon, Jamie. Now shh.
Jamie!
Oh Rachel!
Rachel come on.
No.
Come on.
I'm gonna lower you to the chimney, okay Jamie?
I can't.
Well try dammit!
Rachel!
I've got you come on, go down.
Rachel!
Not like 'ol Ben Meeker do something like that.
Sure ain't. Martians could land on Ben's doorstep, all he'd do is spit once and get himself a shot gun.
Who you calling?
Police station. I ain't closing down with out a good goddamn reason.
We're going to Ben's. The phone never just rings at a police station.
No way. No how.
What the hell did this?
Looks to me like your out of business. Now I want some answers.
Like the last time? How many people killed back then? How many kids?
Al here lost his boy 10 years back.
Shit, Earl. It's Ted Holster.
You dumb son of a bitch, you said you saw Myers.
Okay everybody, listen up. I've got Rachel Corruthers and her sister in the truck, and I'm taking them outta town route 410. State police are on the way. Got that?
Got it Earl.
Okay, out.
Yes.
I'm Dr. Hoffman, Medical Administrator.
Has he been prepped?
Ready to go. Who signs for him?
I do.
Outside.
Check him out.
I'd assumed Dr. Loomis would be here. Michael Myers was his patient.
If Loomis read memos he's be here. Fortunately his position is more ceremonial then medical. My hope is that he's either transfer, retire, or die.
Watch it.
I can safely say that Michael Myers is now in your hands.
Yeah. Well I guess your happy to see him go.
Night Doc.
Drive Carefully.
Why wasn't I notified?
About what?
You know damn well about what. You let them take it out of here.
For Christ sakes. Spare me the speech. I've listened to it for a decade. The fact is that Michael Myers was a federal patient, and a federal prisoner therefore he is subject to federal law.
We're not talking about any ordinary prisoner Hoffman! We are talking about evil on two legs.
I can see this is useless.
I don't want to have anyone live through that night again.
I've said this before. I think your the one who needs medical help.
Why shouldn't I?
How many people in the bus?
Four plus Myers.
How many bodies did you find?
Now where are you going?
Haddonfield. It's a four hour drive. You can reach me through the local police. If you didn't find him in four hours, I'm sure I will.
Oh dear God. Its all right...a bad dream, just a nasty old dream.
It's okay..it's okay.
Clean one in the laundry room next to your blue slacks. Hello?
Honey, this tie has a spot on it, I can't wear this today. I got a 10:30 with Chuck.
Found it.
Sorry. Do you suppose Susan could just bring her crutches? Oh, stupid question. Tell her I hope she feels better. Susan's mother, she can't babysit tonight.
Why not?
Susan broke her ankle last night at the ice rink Rachel?
Honey, I don't think their home.
How do you know their not?
Because the lights are all out.
I told them to be here by nine. Its not 9:30 yet.
We should call the fire department.
I'm not calling the fire department.
Hang on Mrs. Pierce. Not that tie, on the other side. That's not the only thing your eating Rachel.
Mom, I'm on a diet. You want an oinker for a daughter?
Mom, please
You'll have to watch Jamie tonight.
Not tonight. I've got that date with Brady. You know how important that is.
Well tonight is very important for your father and me.
Can't you find somebody else?
Its too late.
What am I supposed to tell Brady? Sorry, but I've got to babysit my foster sister, go and have fun by yourself.
Its not exactly the end of the world, for goodness sake
How do we look?
You guys always look great.
We'll be at the Fallbrooks. The number's next to the phone.
I know, and next to that is the police, hospital, fire, and probably National Guard.
When did this happen?
Sometime in the night. They probably lost the road in the storm. Come down the embankment. It happens.
An accident?
Yes, sir.
It's hard to tell, there all chewed up.
Loomis, it's over. Leave it alone.
I've seen bodies thrown 5060 feet from a crash site.
Look, even if by some miracle Michael is conscience, his muscles would be totally useless. Give the troopers a chance to search.
Rachel! What are you doing here? I thought I was supposed to pick you up?
Jamie needs a Halloween costume.
You do? Okay. Go down aisle A. We've got the best costumes in the whole town.
We need to talk.
Okay sure. What about?
Its about tonight.
What?
My parents babysitter canceled.
So?
So I have to watch Jamie tonight.
When did you find this out?
This morning.
Well you found out this morning? Why didn't you tell me before? I mean it's 5 o'clock now Rachel...shit
Don't get angry.
I'm not angry it's just
Can I come over after Jamie's asleep?
My parents are going to come home early tonight.
So?
I don't know Brady.
Okay, I guess. I'll call you later.
Rachel, I've got an expl I've got an explanation.
You don't owe me anything.
Just leave me alone and lets forget it.
No, you don't understand.
I mean, you blew off our date at last minute.
So you hop on to the next best thing? I thought you were different from other guys.
I am different, it's just that I just got pissed off...that's all.
Oh really? Well, I'll just let you get back to little Ms. Hot panties.
Are you two okay?
We've been better.
What's going on?
Michael Myers.
Who's that?
10 years ago? Halloween? He's Jamie's uncle.
No, no, we have to get out of here right now.
Not without Jamie.
Look.
You think she stands a chance?
She's not dead!
Is there another key?
I don't know!
Its metal, god dammit its metal.
What does that mean?
We're trapped in this house.
Brady!
Get back!
Brady!
No. You son of a bitch!
Shit!
Brady! Come with us.
Go!
Brady!
Get up there Rachel!
Brady!
Get up there Rachel!
Brady! Come with us! Brady!
Go!
Purpose of visit?
A patient pickup and transfer to Smith's Grove.
You're late.
Yeah. Should be on the road.
Yeah, ha, hell of a night huh?
Real charmer.
I'll take you down there.
All right.
Thank you.
Nonono, thank YOU!
Hello, operator services.
Hello, operator? I'm having trouble dialing a number.
What number please?
5554202.
Just one moment.
Thank you.
Good morning, Gentlemen. Please be seated. I see we're still dressing in the dark, Eugene.
Once again, don't call me Eugene. A recent unknown intruder penetrated, using a superuser acount, giving him access to our whole system.
Precisely what you're paid to prevent.
Someone didn't bother reading my carefully prepared memo on commonly used passwords. Now, as I so meticulously pointed out, the for most used passwords are love, sex, secret and... ...God. So would your holiness care to change her password?
A hacker planted the virus.
Virus?
Yesterday, the ballast program for a supertanker training model mistakenly thought the vessel was empty, and flooded its tanks.
Excuse me?
The little boat flipped over. A virus planted in the Gibson computer system claimed responsibility.
What, it left a note?
So what are we supposed to do?
Well luckily, you have a gifted and talented security officer. I traced the hacker's call. The secret service picked him up this morning. I'll just search his files for the original virus code, and then I can eliminate it.
What the hell was that all about?
I had to move fast. The hacker copied my garbage file.
What?
I created Mister da Vinci so we could call in the Secret Service. So they'd arrest the hacker, sieze his equipment, things that we can't do on our own.
I don't want to go to jail for this.
Relax. Think about the 25 million dollars.
But you've created a virus that's going to cause a worldwide ecological disaster, just to arrest some hacker kid?
Basically, uhmm, yeah. Mmm hmmm.
Jesus. You know, you're sick, Eugene. You...
Sh, sh sh sh sh.
Murphy kid turn you down?
I disguised myself as an Alabama State Trooper and penetrated the FBI NCIC.
Pervert! What are you talking about?
The FBI computer holds files on twenty million Americans. I just hacked into it.
Congratulations.
From here I got access to every piece of data ever stored on Dade Murphy's parents. His parents separated five years ago, reconciled two years later, filed for divorce last year, custody battle, boy chose to go with his mother. Hmm.
So?
So, we get the mother, we get the boy.
They had a large chunk of the garbage file? How much do they know?
Not everything. But enough to implicate us.
You said the worm was untreaceable!
Yeah. To civilians. But they're hackers. But don't worry. All we have to do is launch the Da Vinci virus, and then they'll all be put away.
Launch the Da Vinci virus? You can't do that!
No one believes the guilty. Besides, by the time they realize the truth, we'll be long gone with all of our money.
What is it? What's wrong?
Nothing, it's just a minor glitch.
"Minor glitch" with you seems to turn into a major catastrophe.
Send a Flushot.
Rabbit, Flushot, someone talk to me.
Hey! What are you guys doing in here?
I'm sorry, we're sorry, just checking out your fly laptop!
What is he doing in here?
Relax, Burn, he's my guest.
Any questions?
Yeah. Whose gonna notify his next of kin?
Hello?
Hey, it's me.
Phreak?
I'm freaking! Joey wasn't making it up! He really hacked into Ellingson! He gave me the disc with a file he copied and now I'm in jail! They're charging me with some serious shit! And there's stuff I didn't even do, like inserting some virus called Da Vinci, and they keep asking about you guys.
You think they're going to bust us?
Yeah! You better figure out what's on that disc, cause we're being framed. It's in that place where I put that thing that time?
Phreakphreakphreakphreakphreak, dudedudedudedudedudedude... I gotta...
Joey, Joey...
What? whatwhatwhat?
One more "dude" out of you and I'm gonna slap the shit outa you, okay? Now I'm trying to save you from yourself but you gotta stop letting your mama dress you, man! : Check it...
I need a handle, man. I don't have an identity until I have a handle.
You know, you're right about that. Check it, Friday.
Alright. How about the Master of Disaster, huh?
You're hopeless, man, utterly hopeless.
Anyways, guys, guys, listen, listen to me. I'm in this computer right? So I'm looking around...
D'you bring those Crayola books?
You guys always think I should know everything, and you never tell me anything. Am I right?
Alright, what are the three most commonly used passwords?
Love, secret, and uh, sex. But not in that order, necessarily, right?
Yo, what's up?
Dude dude dude, I gotta talk to you a minute, listen listen listen. I copied a garbage file from...
Big deal. A garbage file's got shit in it, Joey, come on.
Nono, it's like hot or something. I don't know.
Joey, a garbage file holds miscellaneous data. Junk. Bits of stuff that's been erased, man.
I copied it from Ellingson, okay? They're asking me about it, alright? Will you take a look for me?
Mr. Belford?
My name is the Plague.
Uh, Mr. The Plague, uh, something weird's happening on the net.
As in what, you hapless technoweenie?
Uh, the accounting subdirectory in the Gibson is working really hard. We got one person online, the workload is enough for like ten users. I think we've got a hacker.
Never fear. I is here.
I've narrowed the activity to terminal 23.
Let's echo 23, see what's up.
We have a Zero Bug attacking all the login and overlay files.
Run antivirus. Give me a systems display!
Die, dickweeds!
The rabbit is in the administration system.
There's a new virus in the database.
What's happening?
It's replicating, eating up memory. What do I do?
A rabbit replicates till it overloads a file, then it spreads like cancer.
Cancer?
Colonel who?
The System Command Processor, it's the brain.
Cancer, brain... Brain Cancer?
Did you find the program for the virus on any of the discs we confiscated?
No. He's either very smart or very stupid.
Then he stashed it somewhere, or he has an accomplice. We'll release him until his indictment, keep tight surveillance, and see if he leads us to your disc.
Gill.
I think we've got something.
It got you seven years probation. No computer, couldn't even use a touch tone phone.
Must have been hell, huh? Zero Cool? A virus has been planted in the Ellingson Mineral computer system. You were our prime suspect, till we trashed your stuff and found no trace of it.
However, we have come to believe that one Joey Pardella is involved in this Ellingson virus. He or perhaps his accomplice has a disk that Mr. Belford needs to disable that virus. We want you to help us find it.
Gill.
Hello?
We caught 'em.
Good.
Red handed! You won't be having any more trouble from them.
You're welcome.
What's going on? Let go of me! Stewardess! I'll never fly this airline again!
Excuse me.
Yo, chill man, I'm talking to Venezuela.
Yeah, I'm sorry, I was just looking for the principal's office.
Sorry, I can't help you, okay?
So, um, what's your interest in Kate Libby, eh? Academic? Purely sexual?
Homicidal?
What's up, man? I'm the Phreak!
Security, uh Norm, Norm speaking.
Norman? This is Mr. Eddie Vedder, from Accounting. I just had a power surge here at home that wiped out a file I was working on. Listen, I'm in big trouble, do you know anything about computers?
Uhhmmm... uh gee, uh...
Right, well my BLT drive on my computer just went AWOL, and I've got this big project due tomorrow for Mr. Kawasaki, and if I don't get it in, he's gonna ask me to commit Hari Kari...
Uhhh.. ahahaha...
Yeah, well, you know these Japanese management techniques. Could you, uh, read me the number on the modem?
Uhhhmm...
It's a little boxy thing, Norm, with switches on it... lets my computer talk to the one there...
2125554240.
Here's your class.
My... class. You mean I'm not in your class?
No, you're not in my class.
Yeah, there's an Olympic size swimming pool up on the roof. Take the stairs over there.
Yeah! Sure.
That's a nice score for a girl.
Think you can do better?
I'll give it a shot.
What the hell is going on?
Pool on the roof must have a leak.
He's not in this class.
I said give me time.
He's not enrolled in this class.
Burn. You're Acid Burn. You booted me out of OTV!
What?
I'm Crash Override.
You're the moron that's been invading my turf?
What the hell are you doing?
It's cool, I'm just looking.
It's too much machine for you.
Yeah?
It has a killer refresh rate.
P6 chip. Triple the speed of the Pentium.
Yeah. It's not just the chip, it has a PCI bus. But you knew that.
Indeed. RISC architecture is gonna change everything.
Yeah. RISC is good.
You sure this sweet machine's not going to waste?
Crash Override. What was it. "Mess with the Best, Die Like the Rest?"
Yeah.
Are you challenging me?
Name your stakes.
If I win, you become my slave.
Your slave?
You wish. You'll do shit work, scan, crack copyrights, whatever I want.
And if I win?
Make it my first born.
Make it our first date.
You're not gonna win.
And you have to smile.
I don't do dates. But I don't lose either, so you're on.
We need your help.
Do my ears deceive me?
What is it with you? I know we've been playing games, but, we're supposed to be on the same side and we really need your help. I really need your help.
I'm sorry, I can't.
Well, could you just make a copy of the disc? And just hide it in case we get busted, so we have something to give our lawyers, something that hasn't been tampered with? Can you do that?
Thank you.
Okay. I'll copy it.
Okay, thank you.
Kate, listen.
Uh, hold on...
I have to tell you something.
This is every financial transaction Ellingson conducts, yeah? From million dollar deals to the ten bucks some guy pays for gas.
The worm eats a few cents from each transaction.
And no one's caught it because the money isn't really gone. It's just data being shifted around.
Right. And when the worm's ready, it zips out with the money and erases its tracks.
Joey got cut off before he got to that part. Check it out. By this point, it's already running at, what, twice the speed as when it started.
Right, and at this rate it ends its run in...
Whoever wrote this needs somebody to take the fall. And that's Phreak, and that's Joey, and that's us. We've got to get the rest of the file, so we can find out where the money is going before the worm disappears, so we can find out WHO created it.
I know, I know who wrote it.
What?
This Ellingson security creep. I gave him a copy of the disc you gave me.
You what?
I didn't know what was on it.
Why did he come to you?
I got a record. I was Zero Cool.
Well that's great. There goes MIT.
I'll make it up to you!
How?
I'll hack the Gibson.
Shit!!
It's my subway defense system.
Alright, so what have we got?
Well, we have fifty passwords, plus whatever Polaroid head here got inside Ellingson.
There they are!
Razor and Blade! They're flakes!
They're elite! Let's get 'em.
A virus called Da Vinci will cause oil spills at 10:30 AM Eastern Time tomorrow.
It's somehow connected with the worm that's stealing the money.
We need your help to overload the Gibson so we can kill the Da Vinci virus and download the worm program.
Ready?
Yeah.
Alright, let's boot up.
It's the Gibson, it's finding us too fast.
Man, there's too many garbage files, I need more time.
Are you crazy? What are you doing?
I'm trying to help you.
Dade.
What?
Thanks for your help.
Oh, wow, she's great.
Yeah.
You look good in a dress.
You would have looked better.
Wanna go for a swim?
I can't believe they decided you won.
They didn't. The guys felt it was the only way I'd get a date. Anyway, you're pretty good. You're elite.
Yeah? You know if you would have said so in the beginning, you would have saved yourself a whole lot of trouble.
You know, I've been having these really weird..
Dreams?
Crash Override.
Never heard of you. Done anything?
No.
Yo, showtime, showtime!
What's going on?
That's Razor and Blade.
Razor and Blade.
Look out, man. Lisa Blair, 26 East 7th St., apartment 16, 5554817, BOOM!
How did you know that?
I got photographic memory. It's a curse! Lisa!
Seven. Wow! Burn's wetware matches her software!
Burn!
This isn't a virus. It's a worm!
What's this one eat?
It nibbles. You see this?
Two days.
And judging by this segment alone, it's already eaten about...
They'll trace you like that man, cops are gonna find you, they're gonna find you with a smoking gun.
Fucked if I care, man.
Look, even if you had the passwords, it'll take you ten minutes to get in, and you've still gotta find the files, man, I mean, the cops will have you in... five minutes.
Jesus, I gotta save all your asses. I help, we can do it in five minutes, man.
Okay. Let's go shopping.
Oh, shit! He got me.
Joey's getting stupid busy.
Yes!
We did it!
Loser. I can't believe you were only eleven when you wrote this. It's quite an impressive virus. Dade, I know how you might feel about narking on your friends, but, we're hackers. For us, there's no such thing as family and friends. We're each our own country, with temporary allies and enemies. I'd like to make a treaty with you.
I'm sorry. Who are you?
I'm the one who understands you. Now, can we be allies?
Nah. I don't play well with others.
Shit! Come on!
Watch which friends you do play with. A record like yours could land you in jail, get you kicked out of school, no colleges would take you. No future. Exiled from everyone and everything you love.
I'm fine. Oh, and Dade, try to stay out of trouble, okay?
Blow me.
Thank you!
The girl. The girl has the disc I need.
I told you, I don't play well with others.
Turn on your laptop. Set it to receive a file.
Lauren Murphy is now a wanted felon in the state of Washington. Forgery, Embezzlement, two drug convictions, plus she jumped parole. When she's arrested, she will not have a trial, she will not pass go, she will go directly to jail. Then I change this file back to the original, and your mom disappears.
That's bullshit.
What can I tell you. Computers never lie, kid. Your mom will be arrested at work, she'll be handcuffed, and later, strip searched.
You lay a finger on her and I'll kill you.
Kid, don't threaten me. There are worse things than death and, uh, I can do all of them!
Talk to me.
I got it. But listen, Kate didn't know what's on it. I mean, she came to me to figure it out. She's not the one who planted the virus. You leave her alone.
Hey, don't worry, kid. If she's innocent, she'll be fine. Your mommy's safe now, okay?
Game's over. Last chance to get out of this without a prison sentence. You're not good enough to beat me, you little shit.
Yeah, maybe I'm not. But we are, you asshole.
Give it up! Just give it up.
I found it! I found it!
This is the end, my friend. Thank you for calling!
Dade?
Yeah, mom?
What are you doing?
I'm taking over a TV network.
Finish up, honey, and get to sleep. And happy birthday.
Good morning. You unpack your stuff yet?
Mmhmm.
Up all night again, huh?
Can this wait until both my eyes are open, please?
Can I cut the electricity to his room so he'll sleep normal hours? He's been playing with his computer all night for a solid week. Well yes, he could be playing with himself. Mmm hmm. Yes I'll ask. Dade, you like girls, don't you?
Well, yeah, I just haven't found one as charming as you yet.
You haven't been doing anything stupid, right, Dade? Right, Dade?!
Right, mom. And I'm still a virgin!
How was school?
Hmmm.
What did we learn in school today?
Revenge.
Aaaah. Did we meet someone special?
No. No one special.
Okay, I gotta get back to work. I'm gonna be home late. And would you try and please fill these out?
Right. Anything else, you want me to mow the lawn? Oops, forgot. New York. No grass.
And unpack.
Who's that?
Curtis.
And what's he do?
That's it, you're looking at it, he just looks slick all day.
You heard of a hacker called Acid Burn? You know who he is?
No, don't know who he is. Do you?
Did you talk to him?
Nope. His mom said he's grounded for his next three lifetimes. He isn't to consort with his computer friends. The secret service is really out to get him. Hey there's a big party tonight, you wanna go?
Yo. Check this out guys, this is insanely great, it's got a 28.8 BPS modem!
Yeah? Display?
Dead.
Dead?
Yeah. Like Rigor Mortis, Habeas Corpus.
Due to Mr. Gill's untimely demise and everything, I guess you two will have to improvise the next round.
Right. If I win, you wear a dress on our date.
Nonononono. Truce, you guys. Listen, we got a higher purpose here, alright? A wake up call for the Nintendo Generation. We demand free access to data, well, it comes with some responsibility. When I was a child, I spake as a child, I understood as a child, I thought as a child, but when I became a man I put away childish things. What... It's Corinthians I, Chapter 13, verse 11, no duh. Come on.
Phreak and Joey are being framed. We need your help to figure out what's on this disc.
Oh wow, we are fried.
Never send a boy to do a woman's job. With me, we can do it in seven.
You're both screwed. I help, we can do it in six.
Well this hasn't happened yet.
Wait a minute, the fourteenth, that's the same day the worm ends its run. I mean... Da Vinci virus, didn't Phreak say that's what he was being charged with? Look... "Infecting ballast programs of Ellingson tankers"  they blame hackers!
Ai! Boom boom aiaiaiaiaee! Alright, that was a little tension breaker, that had to be done, alright?
Cereal.
Yeah?
Go fix the phones.
Roger.
...and your name goes through like seventeen computers a day. 1984, yeah right man, that's a typo. Orwell's here and now, he's living large. We have no names, man, no names. We are nameless. Can I score a fry? Thanks.
Meet Cereal Killer. As in Froot Loops? But he does know things.
What are you, stoned or stupid? You don't hack a bank across state lines from your house, you'll get nailed by the FBI. Where are your brains, in your ass? Don't you know anything?
Stupid, man. It's universally stupid.
Yeah but don't forget God. System operators love to use God. It's that whole male ego thing.
Look, you wanna be elite? You gotta do a righteous hack. None of this accidental shit.
Oh yeah, you want a seriously righteous hack, you score one of those Gibsons man. You know, supercomputers they use to like, do physics, and look for oil and stuff?
Ain't no way, man, security's too tight. The big iron?
Cereal, man, you owe me a pack.
It was him, man!
You're psyched. You need to lay off of that shit.
I'm gonna hit you!
His parents missed Woodstock and he's been making up for it since. Hey, you hear about Joey's bust?
Yeah. Probably had something to do with that bank in Idaho.
Do you think he could hack a Gibson?
I want it to have my children!
Yeah, I bet it looks crispy in the dark.
Yo, hit the lights.
Onehanded!
Difficulty rating?
Uh... Nikon, can I... can I crash at your place tonight?
Again? Yeah sure.
Active matrix, man. A million psychedelic colors. Man, baby, sweet, ooo!
I want it.
Very impressive.
Super hero like even.
Hold on a second!
Look at this, it's so lean and clean.
Looks like a hacker wrote it.
Oh man. That's universally stupid, man!
Yo, man, you an amateur, man.
Biggest crash in history, front page, New York Times, August 10th, 1988. I thought you was black, man! Yo, man, this is Zero Cool! Oh, shit!
That's far out!
This is Zero Cool, man! Whooo, haha!
Tada!
Yo, brain dead, the manual!
Snoop onto them...
...as they snoop onto us.
Well, I got a lot, alright? I don't know how many but... my head hurts.
Yo, everyone check this out. Hey, what's the Da Vinci virus?
Damn!
A worm AND a virus? The plot thickens.
What's that?
Devil book. The Unix Bible.
What's that?
Dragon book. Compiler design.
Oh yeah? What's that?
The Red Book. NSA Trusted Networks. Otherwise known as the Ugly Red Book that won't fit on a shelf.
Maybe. But, if I were gonna hack some heavy metal, I'd, uh, work my way back through some low security, and try the back door.
Yeah but oh man, wouldn't you just love to get one of those Gibsons, baby? Ooooh!
So what do you think, can I crash at your place tonight?
What is it with this guy?
Shit!
Shh!
Was that her top?
Right.
The sensitive type.
I can't. Everybody who touches that thing gets busted, I can't afford to get arrested, I'm sorry.
Maybe I should just go to the bathroom or something.
What?
Check this out. It's a memo about how they're gonna deal with those oil spills that happened on the fourteenth.
Welcome to our show!
Hack the Planet!
As you can see, this is just a simple microcassette recorder. Hook it up to the phone and drop in five bucks in quarters.
Record the tones that the coins make. And hang up and get your money back!
And never again have to pay for a service that would be dirt cheap...
...IF it weren't run by a bunch of profiteering gluttons!
Remember, hacking is more than just a crime. It's a survival trait!
Let's keep her.
Waste the dude.
She's rabid, but cute.
See, we're very busy. A TV network that wishes to remain nameless has expressed an interest in our show.
That's it! An electronic army! If I were us, I'd get on the internet, send out a major distress signal.
Hackers of the World, Unite!
How are you going to take care of the cops?
How's it going, Ray?
It looks good, sir. We've got an uncorrupted hard drive.
In English, please. I didn't spend ten years protecting the president so I could finish my career feeling like an idiot.
I'm sorry, sir. We caught him by surprise, so we don't think he had time to erase his computer files.
Good. Good man. Alright, let's finish up here, and take him in for interrogation.
Alright sir.
Listen to this bullshit. "This is our world now. The world of the electron and the switch, the beauty of the baud. We exist without nationality, skin color, or religious bias. You wage wars, murder, cheat, lie to us and try to make us believe it's for our own good, yet we're the criminals. Yes, I am a criminal. My crime is that of curiosity. I am a hacker and this is my manifesto." Huh, right, manifesto? "You may stop me, but you can't stop us all."
Now that's cool.
Cool?
Yeah, cool.
You think it's cool?
It's cool!
It's not cool. It's commie bullshit!
Secret Service!
Don't move!
Well, that'll happen.
Where did you learn all this stuff?
What stuff is that?
About horses? I'd love to learn more about it myself. Do you offer any private lessons for riders?
Well... Dale... you know, a lot of this stuff... it just... nuts and bolts.
What do you mean?
Well, if the rider's nuts, the horse bolts. That's the whole lesson right there. You have a good day now... Just... keep on freeing yourself up.
Hey, darlin'.
Hey, Rona. Sorry I'm late.
I wouldn't know what to do if you were on time.
You're looking fit.
Fit? You want to check my teeth. Good crowd today. I think you'll have some fun. You going to stay for dinner?
If it's not too much trouble, I thought I might.
Kind of trouble I'm in the mood for.
Ohoh... Maybe I better get back in the truck.
Oh I clear forget. You had a call from some woman in New York. She sounded pretty wound up.
I don't any woman in New York. But from what I hear, most of them are wound up.
The number's by the phone.
What are you looking at, young man?
How long were you married?
Long enough.
You ever miss it?
Does a horse miss a saddle?
Sometimes.
You know, Rona, we weren't all that good together even when we were good together.
Honey... I was always good.
Hi. It's a pleasure. I'm very grateful for the way you took in my girls here. I bet you were surprised when they just showed up out of nowhere.
Oh yeah...
I can't believe it's the same horse.
We still have a way to go.
How much longer do you think?
Well, like I told your wife, it's really up to Pilgrim.
I understand...
Is the poverty worse, now, you think?
I haven't been back in over twenty years, but I wouldn't be surprised. The population's larger.
IT WAS MY TURN!
YA JUST HAD A TURN. IT WAS NOT.
WAS SO!
Don't be such a baby!
You just showing off for her!
You shut up, stupid!
You're the one who's stupid  letting her go and fall off your horse!!
Have you heard from Judith's parents?
No, not yet.
How's Pilgrim doing?
Dad! I can do it, OK?!
OK, OK.
Do you want something else, honey? We order something else?
No, I'm just not that hungry.
You want to watch some television?
Maybe... look  just...
Honey, you all right? Did something fall?
NO!
What, sweetheart?
I want to see Pilgrim.
Did you notice  no cane?
I know. Amazing.
Can we show him Pilgrim, Tom?
Shouldn't we have invited Tom over?
I did. He said he had work to do until late.
It's warmer than I thought.
You want to go to a movie tonight?
I thought your mom's coming up?
So?
My parents are having friends from college over. They're really nice... They have this gorgeous son who wants to be a forest ranger.
Can I come? I'll start a fire...
...Oh, come on! You think the same thing!
I just could never say it!
Do you want to go around by the old road?
Why don't we just cut through the woods?
You want to go down or stay along the river?
We already did the river. Let's go down and across the old bridge. We can circle back.
"... and I said that"...
No, wait, it just goes... "he said he liked to do"...
Jude, you okay?
I'm okay... I'm okay.
Yeah?
Uh, I'm Tom Booker. Your mother around?
She gonna be long?
Probably. She's on the phone twenty three hours a day.
What does she do?
She's an editor.
Mmm. An editor.
Not like books or literature or anything. Just a magazine... Just in case she hasn't told you  which I'm sure she hasn't  I don't want to be a part of this, OK?
Isn't it like, obvious?
Not to me. Either you want to or you don't.
That's not a question, is it?
You're catching on.
Can you drive?
Drive? I'm not old enough yet.
It's never too soon to start.
I can't...
I don't have all day.
Put the key in and turn it. The right pedal is gas, the other one's the brake.
I don't know if I can with my leg.
Well, there's only one way to find out. Give it a little gas.
Just follow this. Nothing to it. I'm going to shut my eyes here for a little while. Just keep going till you run out of road.
I don't know if I can.
Not a question of if you can  you are. Just keep your eyes on the road and your foot on the pedal and the rest will take care of yourself.
Where did you get Pilgrim from?
We bought him in Kentucky. My mother and I took a trip down there to see him.
That must have been pretty special.
Are you afraid of anything?
Getting old. Not being of much use, I guess. What went on out there, Grace? With Pilgrim?
I won't tell you it'll stop feeling this bad... But I can tell you, you didn't do anything wrong... The same thing would have happened to me... or Frank... or Joe... And there's no sense in looking for a reason why things happen... I used to try and... always came up short. I don't think the why so's important as... what we do with what we get. I remember this boy I'd see up on the Blackfeet Reservation. He was sixteen. Great kid. Strong. He'd gone swimming and dived headfirst into a rock. Snapped his neck, paralyzed him... After the accident, I'd look in on him from time to time... and he wasn't there anymore. His mind, his spirit, whatever you want to call it, it just disappeared. And what was left was nothing but anger... It's like the boy I knew just went away somewhere...
I know where he goes.
I know you do. Don't you disappear. You do whatever you have to, to hold on... I'll tell you one more thing... When Pilgrim reared up to face that truck... you know what I think?... I think that damn horse loved you so much, he was trying to protect you... That's what I think.
I can't... not yet...
There's no hurry. Take you time.
Sure?
Sure.
There's still something going on inside of him I can't reach. So me and Smokey here, we're going to try laying him down. Okay?
What does that mean?
It's more or less how it sounds. Sometimes it's not pretty to watch. Some horses fight it real hard. Your fella's already shown us he likes a good fight. So if you don't want to watch, I'll call you when it's done.
I want to watch.
Grace, I need you to come with me.
No, you're only going to hurt him some more.
He's not hurt. He's okay. Look at him.
No!
Grace, Listen... you've got to do this. Just trust me one more time.
Don't you go to school?
Twice a month they give you a day off to work on the ranch.
Why do you always wear that hat?
Because it fits my head. You want to try it on?
Would you let me ride your horse?
Have you talked to Tom about it?
Of course I have.
I don't know... You sure Tom said it's all right?
You wouldn't want to dance with me, would you?
I don't thinks you'd want me tripping all over you in front of everybody.
I wouldn't let happen.
You know, you're a good kid.
I don't believe it.
You know her?
Tom?
Yeah.
Bank out us a couple more men to run the cattle.
We should be fine, then.
They don't get burned by the sun bouncing off the snow. And they're good mother.
Our daddy raised Pure Herefords.
Well, I'd like to welcome Annie and Grace to their first branding...
And next time, Miss Annie, you can run down the calves...
It'd be a whole lot easier to pay the feed end of the month...
I don't think Warren would go for that.
We thought we lost him in the snow storm... Told the kids. Had a funeral for the damn thing. Finally, snow stops. Staring to warm up. I go out and start cleaning the truck... Goddamn if that dog doesn't jump out from the back seat covered in snow... I nearly stained myself.
He thought it was a ghost.
Can we take a look at Bronty's foal when we're done here, Dad?
Sure. As long as she don't mind.
There's a kid at school says we should've imprinttrained him.
He says if you do it soon as they're born, it makes them real easy to handle later on.
That's what some folks say.
There was this thing on the TV about a guy who does it with geese. He has this airplane and these baby geese all grow up thinking it's their mom, and he flies it and they just follow. You hear 'bout that, Uncle T?
When you figure on branding?
Weekend after next...
Teacher asked me why we raise Black AngusHerefords 'stead of Pure Herefords.
Tell her they suit the weather better. Their udders are black, 'stead of pink.
Now son, you tell 'em when it came from.
Be honest, I can't say I did it all myself. My grandma helped me get the words right.
I don't believe they'll expect that.
What, they ain't going forty miles into Choteau everytime they want a hamburger.
I believe so. Saw it on a television show, once.
Well, that's just what we need on a cattle ranch  a vegetarian from New York.
Ha...
Diane takes care of the books. I don't know how, but at the end of every month, everything adds up to the penny.
Ain't brain surgery.
I have some brownies left over. Want one?
No thanks.
... well, I just think she's got a lot of nerve showing up here. Draggin' that child and that poor animal all the way... You eat with those fingers again and you know what'll happen! Frank, don't you think she's got a nerve?
Oh hell, I don't know... According to Tom, she's a pretty determined woman. Must've thought it was worth it.
I guess they'll want feeding and all, out here all day long.
Mixed salad.
What?
I believe women from New York eat mixed salads. Ain't that right, Tom?
They're already all settled in, Frank. Anyway, I'm sure Annie wants her privacy.
It's got doors, Diane. Private as can be. Tom?
Play that sweet one you know. The one makes my wife here so friendly.
You!
Oh Frank, don't forget the wedding present  it's behind the door in the laundry room. I got her a pasta maker from the catalogue... Not that they'll know what to do with it in Branton, Missouri... Probably use it as a planter.
Diane!
Frank's touchy about his cousins. Well, it was nice to meet you, Mr. MacLean.
Annie, it's Liz. How's Grace?
Her leg was shattered so they had to, uh... remove it. She had some bleeding but it's under control.
Oh God, Annie, I'm so sorry. I... I know you're being hit with a low now, I don't want to take too much of your time but I have to talk to you about Pilgrim.
Wait, uh, I, I don't understand. Start again  He's alive...
Yes, but he's in a tremendous pain...
Well, of course, right...
Liz, listen, the Doctor's here and I just can't, uh... talk now... so 
I understand, but Annie, please...
 See, what you can do for him ...
Annie, no matter what I do, this horse will never be the same.
... I just don't know right now! Do whatever you can and when Grace is 
It isn't right to make him suffer...
And I can say the same thing about my daughter! But she is suffering! Can you solve that problem! I can't deal with this now, Liz! If you need a yes or no right now, then no  don't do it! Not until I know Grace is all right. Now, please! Just do what you can. Okay? Please.
Maybe we should give him another sedative.
Problem is, there aren't many volunteers. He's already had enough to sink a battleship. You have a pin, just in case?
Of course not.
Probably best. You may want to shoot yourself half way to Ohio.
There's coffee inside... I was just bringing this to Tom.
Would you mind if I did? I'd like to talk to him.
Sure. Does your daughter want to come inside?
Uh, no, we're going to dinner... Is this the way to the pasture?
Pasture? Oh, that stretch of field near the hill? Yeah.
Mrs. MacLean  why don't you and daughter stay for dinner?
Oh uh, thank you. No, we don't want to impose.
No imposition. Plenty of food. Gonna get pretty dark soon. Hard to find a place.
How's Peterson's holding up for you?
It's fine. Comfortable. I still can't get used to how dark it gets around here, though. When we leave the ranch, I always hold my breath until I can see the motel.
Where does this go, Diane?
Oh, you can just set up on the dining table. I have to rearrange my shelves tomorrow.
Mmmm. I never knew him. He died before Frank and I met. This here's... Frank and Tom's mother and father... there's little Frank and Tom...
She calls him Tommy...
Always did. I think she favored him a little. You tend to when you have more than one, even though you love 'em all the same.
Ha, she loves telling this story about how when he was two years old, he ran off. They found him in the barn, sleeping between two giant hooves of a Percheron stallion. She said that horse was protecting him and nobody could convince her otherwise.
I got a little confused though. The ranch Ellen was talking about  that's not this one?
Thank you. You're all doing too much.
Oh, it's... I wanted to tell you that, if you'd like, you being so busy, I could take Grace to her therapy exercises for you. I have to go in once a week for shopping anyway.
I'll help you with the coffee.
Well... I know I should reject that offer, but I'm not going to.
No reason you should, no reason you should.
I was looking in one of your magazines and saw that picture of the couple getting married at the Pyramids. Were you ever in Egypt?
I was there for that shot, actually.
What was it like?
Oh, God  I think it was the fourth or fifth time I'd been there, so all I remember was the heat and how incompetent the photographer was...
But, uh, Egypt is, well, it's like nothing else. It's like going back in time. I remember as a kid trying to imagine what a kid my age, centuries ago, walking over that same ground, was wondering about or, if they had the same problems as me... and I felt, connected to... to time itself, almost. Ha, I never realized how hard it was to describe.
I'd love to go there one time...
You and Frank ever take a vacation?
Soon. We're going to Branson, Missouri to see my cousin Emma married. Frank loves in there.
Must be nice for you to take a few days off from your work, huh?
Well, I have more than a few days, ha, ha... I uh... I'm sort of... not an editor anymore... right now... First time I've said it out loud.
They fired you?
No, it's more like a leave of Ha, ha, ha. Yeah, they fired me.
You don't seem to upset?
Delayed shock. Or maybe not. I know I could talk my way back if I wanted or... go to another magazine, someplace... Just not sure if I want to.
Guess you don't have to figure it out until you go home.
Did you always know this was the life you wanted?
I fell in love. After that, I never thought about being anything but a rancher's wife. I never saw it like I was losing some other life, just felt like I was gaining one. I know that's not a popular opinion nowadays and I ain't saying it's the right one. We all have to find the life meant for us.
Frank's a good man.
They don't come better. But I don't deny there are times I wonder about things I won't have. Maybe one day I'll get to see Egypt. Maybe not. But I know if you try too many different lives, you can wind up with no life at all...
Sounds like something Tom would say.
Yes, it does.
What?
Annie, I'm not good at this kind of talk  goes round and round a thing but never comes to it  so let's just say what it is. When you first came here, I didn't like you and I was worried. Tom means a lot to me and this family. Don't go looking here for whatever you looking for. Don't make that man go through something it took him a long time to see his way clear out of the first time.
I don't think anybody can make Tom do anything he didn't want.
He's a good man, Tom is. He's got a gift, come from heaven above, I swear. But he's still a man. And a woman can lead a man into the middle of a mountain lake  and still make him think he's on dry land.
Is there anything you need? I'm going foodshopping.
Well, I am going to go after lunch.
No, no, I'll go  just give me a list.
I think I'm going to have my hands full with the son of mine when you leave. Just might be his first broken heart.
Oh, how sweet.
Now, are you sure you want to drive that horse back yourself? There are plenty of people 'round here who do that sort of thing.
I already know the way... and it's not like I have a job I have to rush home for. Between you and me, I could use the time alone.
It's just one night. If I get uncomfortable, I'll go over to Hanks.
Promise?
Promise.
Good luck to you, Annie.
You too, Diane.
You know, that's interesting. I always wondered when I went into a restaurant what was the difference between a regular steak or a Black Angus steak. I couldn't taste any difference although I could swear one was more tender. I didn't know there was that big a difference between cows... I've never been on a cow farm before. I must say, the bulls seem to have the best time of it. Just laying around the fields all day until they're asked to... do their... work.
Well, get born a bull, got a ninety percent chance of getting castrated and served up as hamburger. On a balance I reckon I'd choose being a cow. Would you mind passing that salad young lady?
Nobody's using it. Silly for her to be driving back and forth when she don't know her way around that well...
Oh, I don't know...
Well, I know Peterson's. Old place is as good as falling down around your ears.
Well, did you ever think about hiring a business manager?
We have a business manager. The best around.
I'll have another round of that spaghetti if may?
Absolutely. I made enough for an army.
It's so cruel.
No. He had the choice.
What choice!!?
Either fight the way things are or accept it.
It's me.
Hi.
Hi.
So, what, uh, what train are you taking?
I should be in by two.
Okay. You want me to pick you up?
Sure... What's Grace up to?
Riding with Judith.
I'm sorry about last night. I shouldn't have brought it up over the phone.
That's okay. We have to talk about it and we're not always in the same place ... so... I just have to get used to it. What do you want to do about dinner?
I don't know. We'll figure it out.
Okay. We'll see you later then.
Yeah. Bye.
What about Grace?
She was in pretty bad shape. They've done a C.A.T. Scan  she has some hemorrhaging...
That bag's almost empty.
No, it's got a little left. They'll be in to change it.
Robert, you leave it up these people...!
I'm sorry.
Tch. What are you 
What did he say?
Nothing new. He's just going off duty.
I should go get some of her things.
No, let me go.
No, I'll go. You stay... In case she wakes up.
I saw Judith's parents while you were at the apartment... I wanted to say something... But I... I was so relieved that Grace was still... that it wasn't our daughter.
We're very lucky.
The funeral's on Friday.
Oh, uh, I meant to tell you... Alex brought that fabric over...
Okay.
It's on the table by the phone. I didn't know what to tell him... ... Whether or not we were... ... if we still we're thinking of redoing the couch.
... And uh... Mario called about moving the wisteria?
Oh. Right. I'll call him.
"... FRESH, WIND IN HER HAIR... LIFE WITHOUT CARE... SHE'S BROKE... BUT IT'S 'OK'...
Sing it to me, Frankie!
How's my pregnant chick!
You can hardly get your arms around me. How depressing. You're so early.
I had to excuse myself from a meeting. It's ridiculous. I kept thinking about the baby... you... and, I swear, I was going to start bawling right into my briefs.
Aw... that's so sweet.
I love you.
Do you? Do you really?
You've got to stop doing that?
Doing what?
Helping all the time! Running to her every time she trips or falls... Anticipating her all the time.
How was the dinner?
All our "favorite" people were there saying all their "favorite" things about their "favorite" subjects. I thought to myself, we've been friends with these people almost twenty years and nobody knows anybody. We're so afraid we won't like each other and have nobody go to dinners with.
Why did you go?
They're still our friends, Annie. It's nothing serious. You kid about them all the time... And I could tell Paul really appreciated me being there.
Did you get a hold of that horse guy?
Yeah.
What did he say?
No.
What was I saying?
About us going someplace warm... Someplace Grace'll have to wear shorts or bathing suits or summer dresses...
I don't understand. You just said he said no.
He did, but... I think I can change his mind.
That's the craziest thing I ever heard. Absolutely not.
Robert, Grace isn't adjusting to school. And she can't sit in this apartment all day... I think it would be good for her.
NO! What are you  you're serious about this?
I've called Liz. They can set me up with a trailer for Pilgrim. I thought we'd stay at motels along the way...
You've already made arrangements!?
No. I was just researching. Calm down.
I come home and you tell me we're going to drive a psychotic horse to Montana! I can't just pick up and leave...
I'm not asking you to. I'll do it.
You want to do this by yourself? How? You can't take care of Pilgrim all the 
He'll be sedated. I know horses, Robert. I'm the one who taught Grace how to ride.
What... Bo... What about the magazine?
I'm in charge. I went back very soon after the accident. They didn't expect me for a couple of months. I'll just take that time now... I can still oversee things from Montana... Take my fax... My computer...
No. It's, uh... No, I really don't think it's a good idea
Why?!
Her psychiatrist... said... she needs security now... stability...
I can't say he's been all that effective with her.
Are you a psychiatrist? He said it takes time.
I don't care what he says! We have to do something, Robert! I can't sit here and trust everything's going to work out just by pretending it will.
I'm not pretending anything!
I really wish I could understand why you think this is so necessary.
Robert, we're losing her. We're losing her. I don't care what the doctors say. The truth is, they don't know anymore than we do  less, when it comes to Grace... This may not sound sensible or... logical, but nobody's suggesting anything better. I can't explain it, Robert. I just have this feeling... this annoying... bloody feeling that if... if, somehow, Pilgrim can be made all right... then so can Grace. I just know it!
What if she doesn't want to go?
She will if you think she should.
And you think it's best if I don't come.
No, that's not what I said. I'm not a dictator. If you feel you should come, then come. Just do whatever you think is right.
Yeah. She seems to be getting more comfortable on the ranch, which is why I said yes to this move. But, whenever it's just the two of us, I don't know... Anyway... what's happening with the Delco lawsuit?
Taking forever. I just got an additional list of sixtytwo employees to interview before Monday. I don't know how I'm going to do it.
Well, it's good that you're there.
So, how are you doing in Marlboro country? Is the magazine complaining at all?
Yeah, but nothing I can't handle. Lucy tells me she thinks Gottchalks's plotting, but what else is new.
When are you coming home?
You know, I just asked that myself tonight. He doesn't know.
Well then... maybe I will take some time... come visit.
Okay.
I miss you, Annie.
I know. We miss you too.
Good night.
Night.
I thought you guys were going to call me.
Oh, Robert, I'm sorry. We were so tired from the branding. Grace barely made it to her bed and I didn't have the energy to take my clothes off.
Oh well... branding will do that to you.
Everything all right.
Huhhuh. You?
Fine. Actually, today was a good day. You should have seen her.
I wish I did.
Well, uh the real reason I called, actually, was to tell you I saw Lucy at JoJo's tonight and she seems very worried.
About what?
Apparently, Gottschalk's been seen around town lunching with some very prominent magazine editors. Lucy said she tried to call you, but no one answered so she faxed you the list of names. She said one of them have contracts up fairly soon.
Oh. I didn't look at my faxes today. We left before sunrise.
Honey, I hope you're not endangering your position. Listen, if you need to come back and you want me to come take over, for a while, I'll work it out. I mean, the firm's got other lawyers, but the magazine's got only one of you.
Small bed. Maybe I should sleep in the barn.
You're allergic to hay.
I apologize for the surprise, but the days only opened yesterday and I figured...
You don't have to explain. You have every right to come.
I can see why you put your faith in him. He's a genuine... good guy... Good at what he does. That's rare.
You were right about coming here. I'm sorry for not thinking...
No, it's okay. Believe me, there were plenty of times I didn't know what the hell was right.
How are you feeling about work?
Let's not talk about that now.
Are you going to stay in the city or go up to Connecticut?
Connecticut. I told the office I'd work out of there next week. When are you planning to start back?
Probably first thing in the morning. It's too late to start now. I'm going to try not to do too much driving in the dark.
May I have a suggestion?
Yeah, what?
Take your time.
What do you mean?
I'll tell you something, Annie  I stood there looking at what was happening to that horse... And, I swear, it felt like the same thing was happening to me.
I don't understa
And I have two choices. I can either fight the way things are, or accept them. See, I always knew I loved you more. Didn't bother me. I always felt lucky... a little amazed... that such a vibrant, beautiful woman would want to be with a man like me... And I guess I thought as long as I did everything right  if I was the best husband I could be, the best father... even being a good lawyer only mattered to me because of what it meant for us... if I could do all that, it wouldn't make any difference if we loved each other the same or not... I wasn't asking for more. I told myself I didn't need more. But you don't know how you feel about me. You don't know... if you want a life with me anymore... And I don't want you to come home until you do know... ... one way or the other.
Yes?
Hi. Um, there doesn't seem to be any hotel room available and someone told me to come here and ask for "Tubab" who might to have a place for me to stay. Are you "Tubab"?
No. I am a "tubab."
What do you mean?
Tubab means white man.
Was the trip okay?
Mmm. I made good time. Pilgrim's in the back. I found a new stable, but they can't take him until tomorrow.
I have so much to tell you.
You want to take a walk with me?
Where to?
I don't know. Let's just go and... we'll see...
David?
Who's there?
Everyone. Working overtime. Just for you.
Did you speak to Farlow?
Yes. We're suing.
Is that absolutely necessary? It'll just make it a bigger story.
David, he signed an agreement that he wouldn't talk to the press and he's libeled me by saying I faked the figures. You're not going soft on me, are you?
Well, I suppose we could use another good public feud...
Exactly...
Oh, come on! This is such bullshit! The work is getting done, David. Lucky keeps me on top of everything.
Lucy isn't you. We're losing something without you being here. Now, I know this is a rough time for you, but I think we should make another arrangement.
What the hell does that mean? How much more do I have to do to prove how important this magazine is to me?
If this magazine is so important to you Annie, why are you in Montana?
Uh, yes... Sure, David.
All right. Speak to you then.
Liz is taking care of him. The doctor said the sooner you start therapy the better the chances are you can 
I can't even get out of bed yet! You're already putting me in therapy!!
Why don't you go lie down?
I don't want to lie down. I've been lying down enough.
Dad'll pick you up today, all right?
Okay.
Oh, honey... What happened?
Doesn't matter. I... I don't want to come back, that's all.
Oh. Well, what are you going to do? You have to go to school, honey. I mean, what 
I'm not coming back! That's it! I want to go home!
Grace, listen to me. Your body is just healing. You have to give the rest of you time as well...
Is that your version of a pep talk?
You are not staying home all day feeling sorry for yourself. You're going to get up and you're going to figure this out.
Fine!
It's still early. What's your next class?
I can't find that charm Daddy gave me from India.
I brought it to you in the hospital.
No, you didn't.
Grace, I put it on the table near your 
Doesn't matter.
Have you decided about Pilgrim?
What about him?
Well... how you feel all right about telling Liz to put him down...
I think we should. It's not fair to let him suffer. He's not much use anymore. He'd hate living like that.
I think that's... very compassionate and... mature way of looking at it.
Mom?
Yeah?
Maybe they should put me down too.
What?
I mean, I'm not much use anymore. Why can't they be compassionate to me?
You want to take your bath? We have to get up early tomorrow. You may not have enough time to 
Fine  I'll take my bath.
No, I don't mean you have to. It's just that we may not have enough 
 enough time tomorrow. I know.
Look, if you want to take it in the morning, that's fine.
I don't care.
IT'S ALMOST LUNCHTIME. ARE YOU HUNGRY!?
Whatever you want.
Fine!
Fine.
You should call your dad before it gets too late.
I already did. This morning. When you went running.
Oh. You didn't tell me.
I didn't know I had to.
You don't.
Would you like to see that?
I don't care.
I don't care.
This'll be nice. We haven't seen any of the sights yet. It's history. When I was thirteen I used to love seeing things like this.
You were never thirteen, Mom.
How long is this going to go on?
What?
You know what I mean? Is this it now? Is this the way we're going to be from now on?
Do you want us to turn around and go back home? Do you?
What are you asking me for? You didn't ask me if I wanted to come in the first place  now I get to decide? Forget it!
Who do you think I'm doing this for? I'm doing this for you!
Bullshit! It's about you! About you deciding! About you always being right! You always getting everything your way, controlling everybody  like we work for you or something!
I don't believe this!
You just want to get away from Daddy and you're using me to do it!
That's not true! Whatever problems your father and I are having, have nothing to do with this.
You're amazing! You act like I don't live in that house! Don't you think I hear the two of you!? Don't you think I can tell what's going on? I'm not five years old, Mom! You want to divorce Daddy and Daddy doesn't want to.
Did he tell you that?
He doesn't have to! It's, like, so obvious you can't stand him.
That's not true!
Then why do you want to leave?
It's... it's not that simple to explain. I know you think it is, but it's not. The truth is, I don't really know what I want to do. I don't have all the answers.
No, you just act like you do.
You buckled up? You cold?
Little.
Gee, this looks like a fun place.
Don't they believe in signs here?
What would they say? "Ten miles to big rock." "Twenty miles to bigger rock."
There was supposed to be a turn off. Did I miss it?
I didn't see it.
He's still sitting in that damn field.
I think they call it a pasture.
We'll have more room because we're moving onto the ranch. They have this empty house near this creek. It's actually pretty... OK... I love you. Dad wants to talk to you.
Hi.
Did you ask him to come visit?
You already did.
Did he mention it?
Yeah, he's going to think about it. You want me to pack for you?
You got everything you need?
If I had everything I need, I wouldn't be going to physical therapy.
Honey, come on. Would you like to stay in town for dinner? Maybe see what movie's playing tonight?
Why? There's no food in the house?
No. I just thought... forget it.
I'll come.
Uh, I don't, honey. Branding? Oooh... I think we'd just be in Mr. Booker's way.
I thought there were too many forks on the table.
Well, one was for salad...
Mom, they don't mind eating with one fork.
You're right. Good.
Does anybody out there want something to drink?
I'll take care of it.
Thanks, honey.
Nothing.
Did you go riding?
Grace? Is everything all right? Can we talk?
About what?
Well... So you tried riding again?
Yeah. Does that mean I'm cured?!
Honey, nobody's trying to cure you 
... You worried everything all right now and we'll have to go home?
What are you talking about?
You... not wanting to go home because you hate daddy so much.
Grace, I don't hate your father.
I can't remember the last time you made him dinner.
I was just trying to say thank you to Diane and Frank and 
Tom?
Look, I just wanted to say, I think it's great you're riding again. And... and I think I know why you, you needed to do it alone... without anyone knowing...
Yeah, you know everything!!
STOP IT! Why can't I talk to you!!
NO, YOU STOP IT! Stop pretending like you care! Like this really isn't about you and Tom.
WHAT?! How can you  I'm sorry if my friendship with Tom bothers you so much, but I happen to value having someone to talk to, especially when my own daughter ignores me night and day because no matter what I say, it's wrong and no matter what I do, it's wrong... I'm sorry I'm such a disappointment to you.
Well, now you know what it feels like.
I don't deserve that. I have never looked at you as a disappointment. If I'm on your back to do better, if I push you to try harder it's because I want you to be the best you can be.
FOR YOU! Because I'm your daughter which means you're the best mother! Isn't that what you're always talking about in interviews  having it all, the great career, the great family... Proving everybody wrong. Wanting everybody to think you're this perfect woman!
Listen, if... if there's a part of you as parent that... that takes pride in your child  that, you can look at them and see something you've accomplished as well... if that's wrong, then I'm sorry. But it wasn't my intention. I don't push for me. I do it for you... So you don't waste half your life feeling like you don't know where you belong.
Yeah, well, you've done a great job.
Well, then I do apologize... But what I'm most sorry for is turning you into a spoiled brat who can only think about what she's feeling... who can't admit when she's wrong and who can't forgive when she's not.
LEAVE ME ALONE!!
What did you say?
I said... I started.
Started what?
My period.
When? Tonight?
I felt it happen downstairs and when I went into the bathroom.
Who's going to want me now?
What?... Oh baby...
Who's ever going to want me? Nobody will.
That's not true.
Why should they?
Because you are... one of the most... incredible, bravest, most beautiful woman I have ever met. The efforts you make. Your courage and your dignity. I don't know where you got it? I honestly don't know how I would have handled all this if I were you.
I'm sorry... about what I said. It's just that  all those times you and Daddy were trying for another kid, I... I used to pray at night that it would work. And not because of you guys or that I wanted a brother or sister... but... just so I wouldn't have to be...
What?
So special. Because I was the only one. You both wanted me to be so good at everything, so perfect and I wasn't. I was just me. And now I've completely ruined everything, anyway...
Who is it?
Uh, nothing. I'm going to pick it up in the other room  would you hang this up for me?
Sure.
Let's bring your bags inside.
Wait till you see this  we have the whole house to ourselves...
What's the matter, honey? Gonna miss Pilgrim?
Tom's gone.
Smokey told me he left last night to look at some horses in Sheriden. He won't be back for three days. I can't believe he didn't want to say goodbye.
Well... honey... you know... that's just not his way. Maybe you can write him a letter or something. Say thank you... Don't think about it... You take care and I'll see you home.
Oh, I miss you. You look beautiful.
So do you.
How's everything?
Good.
Hi.
Great!
Go ahead...
This is Annie MacLean.
Yeah. Hello. This is Tom Booker. I got a message you called.
I went on the Internet and found this article about you... It says you're a Horse Whisperer, that you... you help people with horse problems. And you have quite a success rate when it comes to traumatized 
Well, see, truth is, ma'am, I help horses with people's problems.
Well, you know, however you want to put it  I got your information from the publisher of the article. I called Montana and your sisterinlaw, I think, gave me this number. I'm been hot on your trail you could say because I was hoping you'd consider coming to New York and taking a look at my daughter's horse and possibly 
Ma'am, I'm very sorry about your problems and I appreciate what your daughter must be going through, but I'm afraid you've misunderstood whatever it is you read. I don't do that sort of thing.
Well, if you could just come for the day. New York's only a few hours by plane, I'd have you home by dinner...
Look, even if it was nearer, that's just not what I do. I give clinics. And I'm not even doing them for a while. I'm heading back to Montana right now. I got a ranch to take care of...
I'll pay you for your fare. I'll send you to Montana first class.
Ma'am, first class to Montana is a waste of good money. Now, am I being too polite here or when I say NO in Utah, does that mean YES in New York City?
I, I don't mean to sound insensitive. I understand your situation. But there's nothing I can do. You just called the wrong person, that's all. I hear there are a bunch of therapists in New York. Maybe you should call one of them.
Mr. Booker, if I could just ex 
I am very sorry, ma'am. Goodbye now.
It's, uh... beautiful country. I had a little bit of a hard time finding the place. There are no signs.
Plenty of signs  just none of them printed. Who do I get the idea you're not just passing through!
Well... OK... here it is... Uh... I'd like you to take a look at my horse. Now  it won't take long and if, after that, you still don't feel...
Were you thinking of personally driving me back East?
Oh no. She's here. I brought him along. And my daughter, too. We're staying at Peterson's...
You mean you hauled him all the way out here? Just like that?
Well... yes... I had a trailer. It's not like I made him run along side of the car.
All by yourself?
I uh... ha, ha... I don't think I ever met a lady quite like yourself and I appreciate all the pains you've gone through to 
Look! Please! Don't do the "shucks, ma'am" thing again! I've driven a few thousand miles for a few minutes of your time. I've brought him here  to your neck of the...  mountains. Just take a look at him. If you still feel the same way, I'll be on the road by morning and you'll never see me again. OK? Deal?
Uh, no. I was gonna take a look now.
You want us to come with you? I just have to run to the main house and give Mr. Peterson a check.
Doesn't matter.
Grace?... Grace, you want to come with us, take a look at Pilgrim?
When I work with a horse, it's no good just me doing it. It doesn't work that way. The owner needs to be involved too.
Well, that'll be a little complicated 
You can make it as complicated or as easy as you like. But she's the one who's gonna be riding him, am I right? So here's the deal. I'm not sure I can do anything, but I'm prepared to give it a go   if you'll help. You have a problem with that?
Look, I'll talk to Grace and call you later
Excuse me, with all due respect, but this is her decision, not yours. And I don't want to waste anybody's time  mostly mine.
I don't have a problem with that. It's up to Annie.
Well, it's worth it, really? I mean, how much longer do you think you need to work with Pilgrim?
That's up to Pilgrim.
You know, we're branding here tomorrow. If you two want to come by to watch or give a hand, you're welcome.
Branding? I haven't branded in years.
You okay?
It is cocktail hour yet?
So how was your first and last day of branding?
Don't be so sure it's my last. There are a few people back home I'd like to put under a red hot iron.
What?
You ever just stand still for a minute?
You stand still too long in New York you get hit by a bicycle messenger. You know, sometimes, I get the feeling, Mr. Booker, that you're laughing at me. Why is that?
That's your cue to say you're not laughing at me.
Oh, I see, you write both sides of the conversation?
It's a man's world, Mr. Booker. Most women have to.
Well, maybe I am laughing a bit... I just thought, as long as you're here, it would be nice for you to relax into the place a little.
Well... It's beautiful country, I'll give you that. And I could see having some kind of vacation place. Retreat. But I don't know how you do it full time. Don't you miss the rest of the world?
What's that to miss?
Ha... if you've never lived in a city with museums, theater, music, restaurants, uh... god, a million things, then it's something I can't explain.
Does Chicago count?
You lived in Chicago?
When I was first married.
You were married to a woman in Chicago?
I once heard Itzhak Perlman guest star with the Chicago Symphony Orchestra. He played Rachmaninov's Vocalize Opus 34. No. 14. It was one of the most beautiful pieces of music I ever heard. I actually forgot where I was for a time. You seem surprised?
Well, I, uh... you didn't...
Just who's been laughing at who here?
I've decided it's impossible to properly say hello in this place without a hat.
A jogger, huh?
I don't jog, Mr. Booker. I run.
Lucky for you. The grizzlies around here only go for joggers.
If I can survive rush hour, I figure I can handle grizzlies...
You sleeping all right in that house?
I don't sleep all right anywhere. But the house is fine.
I found this old cello case filled with bills and receipts.
Sorry about that. I thought everything got cleared out. R.B. is my wife... exwife... Rachel. We used to live in that house together.
I thought you lived in Chicago?
I thought you were an editor, not a reporter?
I have a way with animals.
It's all right. He's young. Just hold out your hand a little lower so he can get the smell of you.
Oh yes. I forgot.
He's beautiful.
Why don't you ride anymore? Grace told me you used to ride when she was younger.
She did?
Are you shy, Mr. Booker?
Just polite. Well, maybe you'd like to try riding again, some time before you go home.
Enjoy the day.
You too.
Shit.
Need a lift?
I can handle it!
The answer's no.
You haven't heard the question yet. Truth is, you'd be doing me a favor. I got all these eager young colts need riding and poor old Rimrock here is feeling kind of left out...
Poor thing.
He'd be grateful, he'd take real good care with you.
Is this how you're going to make me pay my phone bill?
No, ma'am, I'm afraid that's extra.
Relax our center... It's just sitting in a bucket.
Yeah, it's been a while, but I... I remember the basic ideas...
OK. I'll stop talking then.
Actually, I never rode Western. I'm sorry. Go ahead.
Well, he don't know that. Just sit the horse. Good... You have a nice seat.
Thanks.
Feel good?
Yeah.
You look all right. You want to pick it up a little?
OK.
How long did you live here with your wife?
Five years. My son was born here.
Son?
Yeah. I haven't seen him in a while. He used to come to the ranch over summers, but then he started having friends and was going off to college, so... Good boy. Hal. Lives in New York near his mom.
How did you meet her?
College. In Illinois. She was playing the cello. I hadn't heard cello music growing up. She had the reddest hair, the bluest eyes. When she played, it was...
Why didn't it work out?
She was never really happy here. She did the best she could.
Grace told me you have a country house in Connecticut. Sounds like a beautiful place.
It is. It's lovely.
Ever think of moving there full time?
We did at one point. When we thought we'd have more children. And we after tried. We tried everything, but... wasn't meant to be.
I hear that! See, I knew she was never going to be a ranchest, but I wanted to try  I thought maybe she'd give music lessons to the kids in town or at the school, maybe even recitals. My son would grow up here. Maybe have one or two more. I'd teach 'em what I could. They'd play with my brother's kids. All grow up together. And even if they all decided to go out into the world, they'd always know where home was  cause we'd keep it for 'em...
That's very important to you, isn't it? Home.
Yeah, I think it is. And I don't mean everybody's got to be married, have kids  It's more like, knowing where you're from, where you belong, what feeds you, where you can go no matter what happens... Knowing what you're supposed to be doing while you're here.
How did you find out all that?
Everything under control?
Not really. I'd forgotten how long it's been since I've done this. And I couldn't get any Parmesan cheese.
Just make yourself comfortable.
I am comfortable.
Ha, ha... all right, well, uh I guess you can bring out the pasta.
You missed a button.
Huh?
This is Mr. Booker, Robert.
Tom.
Now, listen. I want you to stand on him.
What?!
I won't apologize for this. And I won't hide it. Not for anybody.
I won't ask you to.
Oh, God, what are we going to do? I'm supposed to 
Ssshhh... Stand still, Annie. Takes what we've got, just for now. Can you do that?
Show me again.
Annie!
One more time.
Summers are short here, Annie. There isn't much of a fall. Before you know it, the roads are closed... the nights get long.
I don't care! We'd be together.
Two people can't just be alone together in the world. At least not us...
I can't do this. I can't leave you...
I figured, whenever you decided to go, you'd be all set.
How thoughtful of you. And what if I decide not to go?
I don't know any other way, Annie.
Why?
Then what have we been doing? I mean what was the point?
The point was to love each other.
Why?
Good evening, Mr. Newberry.
Good evening, Mr. Blank.
How are you? How's business?
Martin, I don't know where you've been since you abandoned my daughter ten years ago, and I don't care. It was good that you left, and I'm glad you did. So what do you want to talk about? You've grown up a bit. Maybe I had you figured wrong.
How's that?
I visualized you, in a haze, as one of the slackster, flannelwearing, coffeehousemisanthropes I've been seeing in Newsweek.
I took the other road. I'm more of a selfreflective young lion who does business with leadpipe cruelty and goes home to drink light beer in milkyeyes isolation. I love sports and sex and have no real relationships with anyone. And you?
Oh, you know me, Martin. I'm the same old sellout babyboomer, exploiting the oppressed I got shot for at Kent State. But why don't we have a drink and forget the whole thing?
Why not?
So what are you doing with your life now, son?
I'm a professional killer.
That's good.
So when are you authorized to use deadly force?
Well, a 'course, taxes provide your basic service police and whatnot. But our customers need a little more than just that, you understand? This badge doesn't mean that I am a peace officer.
So it's not a meaningful symbol, or anything. That badge is just the badge of your company. If I look suspicious on your customers' property well, under those heightened circumstances you have the authority to, ah... To shoot me.
To shoot you. Correct.
How did you get this job?
Well, they were hiring, and it was only a two week course...
Wow.
Marty! It's me. Paul.
Paul?
You're leaving me hanging here...
So what happened to you?
Same thing that happened to you I stopped poutin' there on the sidelines. Got in. Got on the team. I joined the working week, you slick fucking asshole, so why don't you valet park your high horse and take it easy on your old buddy, Paul.
Fair enough.
God it's great to see you.
You too.
Debi's house.
Kind of crept up on you, didn't it?
No. You drove us here.
Yeah, but it's still kind of eerie, isn't it?
No.
Ten years. What happened!?
I freaked out, joined the Army, worked for the government, and went into business for myself... I'm a professional killer.
Thank you.
He sells BMW's?
He sold me this bad boy.
How could you put your hardearned dollars into the hands of the class bully?
He gave me a great deal.
Mein Dealer.
What the hell happened to you?
I was catching up with Bob Destephano.
As long as you had a good time.
It didn't work out.
That's too bad.
I have to get my head back into my work.
Work's good for the soul.
When you see Debi, tell her I'm sorry.
See you in ten years.
I bought a new rug.
That's wonderful, Mom.
What's a revival tent?
It's a place where religious people
Marlin Perkins and Jim!
Jim?
His assistant. He acted like Marlin's son, only he wasn't. At least they never said he was... I bet they were lovers, faggots. Yes, gay lovers. Wild Kingdom my ass!
It's good to see you. I'm sure you're curious about what I've been doing.
I spoke to your father the other day.
I imagine that'd be rather difficult.
Nature made him then broke the mold.
They told me you're taking lithium, mom.
Yes, they give me headaches. I have a headache.
You have a headache?
I have a headache. You have a headache?
No, I don't have one.
You don't have a headache. I have a headache.
We had a good laugh, didn't we?
Yeah. I guess we did.
Why don't you return this car and borrow mine? Have Debi follow you to the rentacar so you can get a ride back.
I think I'll go see Debi today.
Of course you will.
I can't think of anything to say to her that seems appropriate given I left and never said goodbye to her.
Take care of her. She's a keeper.
Yeah...
And a leader. Didn't she meet Castro on foreign exchange?
I have always thought about her and missed her.
...Tell them that's not my problem. I was paid for one job the cyclist not two. See you tomorrow, Marcella.
Wait. I have Mr. Grocer for you.
Patch him through....
Throw that away.
This?
Don't tease me. You know what I do for a living.
It's from one of those P.O. Boxes. How was the trip?
Tedious. I now authorize you to throw away all personal mail.
All of it?
And not show it to me. Ever again.
That's going to cost.
I'll pay.
They're not happy, sir.
I'm not happy.
They say their friend was suppose to have a heart attack and die in his sleep.
He didn't.
They blame you for the compromise.
And they want me to make up for it.
In Detroit. This weekend.
Tell them that's impossible. I need my normal lead time.
They were very upset.
Would you describe their position as inflexible?
Intractable, sir. You leave tonight.
And sir, I also get that broken mirror, blackcat, Fridaythe thirteenth kind of feeling about this one....
There's nothing to be done about it.
I liquidated the last account in Zurich, and split it into two new ones in Estonia.
Good. What else? Anything interesting?
Mmm, not really. But you're gonna love this one.
Enough?
Never enough.
But it's a Greenpeace boat. It'd be so easy.
I have scruples. Next.
Paperwork on the Detroit thing. It's a full dossier. Very comprehensive.
Don't forget your identity.
See you next week.
This is not good.
I'll do it tomorrow.
What's it look like?
It's fine.
You haven't looked at the dossier.
I've looked at it.
You have.
Yes. It's the same as usual. Nothing remarkable about it at all.
I have to call the client and give them a reason why you're late.
Tell them my house exploded.
I'll call them and tell them you're taking your time. Being a professional.
Okay, call them. Fine. Oh And if you could find out why they double booked the job, and who is trying to kill me, and call me back that's be great.
Will do.
You always say that. You always say that. I'm telling you, you never met the man.
Seventeen months ago I was posting a walk in Lisbon, and he was there. He never saw me. But I saw him, though.
Lisbon?
In Portugal, yes.
Here's the news: He hasn't been in Portugal since '90. I know that from the file. Why don't you read the file, man?
In fact, I think I talked with him, in Bonn.
Well?
I don't think so.
Well, remember when Frysal's men paid off the Deejay in Cairo to announce a bogus press conference in the 
Nooo
Yes. And the Munich Olympics in '72. A local radio station started broadcasting news of the massacre two minutes before it happened.
That's strictly BaderMeinhof stuff.
It was the PLO.
Whatever.
I wish he'd do his job already so we could do our job.
We can't do our job unless he does his job.
Why don't we just do his job then, so we can do our job, and get the fuck out of here.
Do his job? I'm not a coldblooded killer.
Wait a minute
Look. You want to kill a Good Guy, but not be a Bad Guy, you wait until a Bad Guy kills the Good Guy, and then you come in and kill the Bad Guy, and then you're the Good Guy.
So if we do his job, we're the bad guys. If we do our job, we're the good guys.
Yup.
He's falling for her. Look at him.
He using her.
You're wrong. Look at his face.
One cannot love and kill.
I love. I kill.
Looks like someone keeps trying to do our job for us.
If he does our job, he's our job.
I get it.
Did you see Blank in there?
No...
Good. For a second there I thought we were in trouble.
Hey, Ken. How have you been?
Hello Martin. How have you been?
Not bad. You?
Hello, Bob.
Hey, Bob.
I'm an attorney. I'm with Moss, Brice & Fromeyer.
That sounds pretty interesting...
Sometimes. I'm in divorce, mainly. Some property. Some personal injury.
Those all seem kind of related...
Well... I have to take this over to Debi.
Here. Take my card. Wait a minute... here's a special one. For topshelf clients.
Have you seen Debi Newberry?
Nope.
The more things change, the more they Goddamned well stay the same.
I guess.
What do you want?
I'm setting up a concern that would enable those of us in our rarefied profession to consolidate our efforts.
Like a union?
Like a club. Work less, make more.
Thank you, no.
We could be working together, making big money, killing important people... I'm willing to let you in on the ground floor.
And you could be... sort of like... a father figure to me....
It's a freemarket evolution. You'll wake up to it... c'mon Kid. We used to run together when you were a rookie. I don't want to run against you. This thing's real. Everybody's in.
Not me. So don't paw at me with your dirty little guild.
I'm gonna get you, kid.
I want two eggs poached, hash brown welldone. English muffin for the bread. And a coffee.
Wholegrain pancakes. And an egg white omelette.
Come on, live a little. I'm sorry about the incident yesterday.
No harm no foul.
A little misunderstanding among my associates.
I told them to kill you and they didn't.
Hard to get good help these days.
But since we're both here, I think it's time to take a fresh look at our relationship.
I didn't get into this business to have "associates." And I don't want to join your Goddamned union. "Loner " "Loner gunman." Get it? "On my own." That's the whole point. Why don't you become a cop, or something. You can drink coffee in the morning... with friends!
No deal.
Fine. But we're not going to let you do your job. Because we're gonna do it. And then, after we do your job, we're gonna do another little job...
Is that right?
Yeah after I shoot you through the fucking forehead I'm gonna fuck you in the bullethole.
Nice talk, Sugarmouth.
It's okay. It's Martin The door begins to open revealing Debi and Newberry.
I know what I do isn't moral, per se, but if you could just look past that, you'd see a man worth loving.
Don't listen to him, he's a professional.
...How about I sell you two rounds for a hundred grand a piece?
Okay.
There you go. I left it blank.
Excellent. Here they come.
How was your day, today, sir?
Effective. But to tell you the truth, I've lost my passion for work.
Do you like the people you work with?
I work alone.
That's it then. That's it. I've always been alone. That's why I'm a good driver. I can handle it. See, I can think on my feet. I survive, I'm a thinker. And I can sit there in front of your house for two hours and it don't bother me. Some people can't do it! Some people are ranting and raving, "Tell them fuckin' people to get out here and get in this car, I can't I want a go!" Where you gonna go? You're gonna wind up back in your garage at seven o'clock at night. You ain't going nowhere. You leave your house in the morning you get back to your house in the evening. What's the big deal, right?
You understand the psychology of the job.
I do. Some guys can't adjust to it; they can't handle it.
You look like you're far away. Far away and thinking about other things. I'm right about that, aren't I?
No.
Well, let's just say that sometimes I'm right. Sometimes you are.
Sometimes I am. Sometimes. It's only natural.
It's only natural....
I been looking at you, and I've decided that I want to share something with you.
Okay.
Because your problem is you're bored. And you have a very big mind. I am part of what I call a brain syndicate.
I am part of a network of minds, a group of five people who are all connected, over hundreds, even thousands of miles, through the mind. We can think with each other, think for each other. I can be driving somewhere, sleeping with a woman whatever it is and at the same time be thinking a thought in someone else's mind, far away. Running someone else's brain.
Up on the right.
And when you think of it, it's not so surprising that a small group of people control the whole world, is it?
Why don't you want to go to your high school reunion?
It's in Michigan. Honestly, what do I have in common with those people? Or with anyone?
You went to school with these people.
Come on.
We've spent a lot of time discussing those years. Remember we said that fear is a transfer of the bodily hurt associated by experience with the thing feared, to the thought of the thing. Thus we fear a dog without distinctly imagining its bite.
Shouldn't you be taking notes?
Tell me about your vision of the reunion.
How do you know?
I just know.
Say more.
They'll have husbands and wives and children and houses and dogs.... made themselves a part of something. And they can talk about what they do. What am I going to say? "I killed the President of Paraguay with a fork."
You needn't be so frank with me about your work.
Why not. I trust you. You couldn't turn me in because of DoctorPatient privilege... and I don't want to be "withholding"... and I know where you live.
You know where I live?
We're both professionals, Oatman.
I think what you fear Martin is domesticity. It's the greatest fear that men have who belong to Western Culture. It's centuries old. Like King Phillip, in the 11th or 12th century who decided one day that he was so bored with his dreary life at home with his wife he thought, "Well, wouldn't it be great if we hit the road and fought... oh... the Saracens." So he put the word out and was amazed when a million men signed up and all of them wanted to go and fight in distant lands and do terrible things to people rather than stay at home with their families.
So you're saying that Ulysses everything he said to his queen when he came backeverything was a lie? He just wanted to fuck around?
Yes.
Mmm.
And how have you been feeling about your... work lately?
Uneasy. Dispassionate. Bored. It's just getting hard to go to work in a good mood. I'm starting to think I've been in the business too long. Last week I did a guy younger than me.
Anyway, that never use to happen. I was always the prodigy. Now I'm just one of the guys.
Maybe some of the discomfort you're feeling is... guilt. Remorse. Over the innocent people you've killed.
If I show up at your door, chances are you did something to bring me there. I don't care about that stuff, anyway.
What stuff?
Morality.
Go to your reunion, Martin. See those people and discover what they mean to you. Try not to kill anybody for a few days, see how you feel.
If I get antsy I'll kill a few small animals.
What else? Say more.
Saw my mom... I'm with Debi, and I'm on my way to the reunion.
Okay. Repeat this after me.
Out Loud?
...I am at home with the me. I am rooted in me, who is on this adventure.
Take a deep breath and realize, that this is me breathing.
This is me breating.
I just play my own collection.
It's nice to see you again.
How long has it been?
Since you stood me up on prom night and vanished without saying a word?
Ten years, I think. What I miss?
Well, let me see... they tore down the George Orwell monument and put up a bust of George Michael. Main Street's a fourlaner, no left turns four to seven. I was married and divorced. And Grosse Pointe is now officially the new sister city to Lower Hutt, New Zealand. We have fiberoptic town meetings every two months.
Here is now there. There is here.
Tell me about yourself.
I'm in California most of the time. Traveling a lot on business. That's about it, really.
That's it?
Not much else.
What's your business?
I'm a professional killer.
Professional killer. Do you get dental with that?
Well, I gotta go. But I'll come back.
Okay.
All right mystery man. I want some answers. Let's recap. Spring of '84. Two young lovers with frightening natural chemistry. The girl sits in a sevenhundred dollar prom dress at her father's house waiting for the most romantic night of her young life. The boy never shows up, until now. So, what's the question?
Where have I been?
More like what happened? What happened, Mr. Blank?
I don't know exactly. I could venture a guess but it would sound like a rationalization... I thought you know... maybe seeing you, some friends, my house... of course now a 711
Torn down in the name of convenience
and I guess, sure, seeing you would be part of that whole equation... I suppose the most important thing, really. I don't know. Anyway, this whole thing's my therapist's idea. It's my shrink, really.
Ohhh. You're in therapy too, Marty?
You see someone?
Uh, no. So you're back now, a decade later, and you want to sort things out with me. The question now is, do I allow you... access... to my being?
Are you going to the reunion?
No. I'm not going. Is that why you're here?
That's part of it.
Well, you'll have a ball. You seem to have everything everybody wants when they go back. The car, the suit, the watch. The look. That just leaves the little things, like happiness, character, point of view...
It's always the little things.
Yep.
Okay. Let's catch up. You go first.
Well, there's not much to tell.
I'm sure you've done worthwhile things in the last ten years. You've had experiences.
Bad experiences.
You met people.
Bad people.
Watched television?
Bad television.
Jesus. Marty. You're pathetic. It sounds like you need a Shockabuku.
What's that?
It's a swift spiritual kick to the head that alters your reality forever.
That'd be good.
I figured I could pick you up tomorrow around seven o'clock.
Let me get this straight, are you asking me out?
Yes.
Unbelievable.
Seven it is.
I'll think about it.
Are you there?
Yes.
Pick me up at my father's house at around seven. And don't be late this time.
Hello...?
This night, this reunion will be an important step in our relationship.
You're fucking psycho.
Don't rush to judgement until all the facts are in.
Flowers. That's funny.
As long as I get the laugh.
Here. Let me put these in some rubbing alcohol.
You look beautiful.
Okay... Hold on...
...Let me get my coat.
I'll just help myself to a cocktail.
Do you want to get a drink first?
I think they'll probably have booze there.
Right.
Shoulda brought my gun.
What?
Yes. Actually we just bought that little Frank Lloyd Wright on Pine Avenue... Debi's a social worker and I mow down insurance claims at Aetna
We haven't seen each other since high school.
Which would you rather...?
Okay... Would you rather... commit yourself sexually to a fourbynine cell with former President George Herbert Walker Bush dressed as a supermodel for a month, or make love to a otter on crank for a week?
Soft. I'll take the junkie otter, clearly! I'd let the little beast scratch and claw all he wants... Okay. Would you rather make love to the candied corpse of Phyllis Diller
She's not dead
It's just a game...! Alright. Candied Diller, or... wear a hot pork vest across the desert with a fully digested crab apple in your mouth?
Wow. I have to give this some thought.
No time.
Okay, then. Clearly candied Diller.
Even though I left, you never left me. Not just memory but a substance in my blood.
Like heroin?
Too junkykitschy. Deeper, deeper.
Like love?
Could be. The physical substance of love.
He was trying to kill you, right!
Yes.
Not the other way around...?
No.
Is it something you've done?
It's something I do...
...About five years now.
Get the fuck outta here.
Seriously, when I left, I joined the Army and took the service exam. They found my psych results fit a certain profile. A certain "Moral flexibility" would be the best way to describe it... I was loaned out to a CIA sponsored program. It's called "mechanical operations." We sort of found each other...
You're a government spook?
I was, but no... yes... I was before, but now I'm not. It's irrelevant, really. The idea of governments, nations, it's mostly a public relations theory at this point, anyway. But I'll tell you something, until about five months ago, I really enjoyed my work.
Jesus Christ!
Then I started losing my taste for it. Which usually means your time is up. But then I realized it was something entirely different... I started getting the sneaking, dark suspicion that maybe there was... meaning to life.
Okay. Great, Martin, that's just great. Meaning to life... Mmm....
Like, that there's a point? An organic connection between all living things.
Let me help you along, Martin. You're a sociopath!
A sociopath kills for no reason. I kill for money.
You never could have kept this from me.
I was leaving.
That's probably a good idea.
Will you come with me?
I'm staying here.
What if I come back?
I'll hide.
You don't get to have me. You are a monster, I'm a human being. We're not going to mate.
You don't understand...
That's because I speak human, and you speak monster.
You kill people.
I have no illusions about the future. What is, is. We make choices. And we become the sum total of our choices. I can live with that.
Other people can't.
Oh I see. You got your individual slices of hope, dignity, confidence, selflove, justice, and harmony.
You open 'em up and there's the sayings, stories, little bites of insight. It's the P.P.P. Six Day Week.
So you eat read it everyday?
Yes.
And these pan pizzas have opened up the doors to heaven?
Correct. That's for you. Keep it.
I'd come to the realization that everything I'd based my life on was false. And that my life had no meaning.
He gets this way when he hits over eightyfive.
It seemed like my life was slipping away, somehow. I was a knot in the middle of a wet rope. Everything was futile and nothing had value.
That's a tragedy. Can I finish my story please? I began my search for meaning. I was a Catholic, Jew, Scientologist, Sufi, Buddhist. I went to a Psychologist, psychiatrist, herbalist, nutritionist, a shaman, and a psychic. And they all pretty much say the same stuff.
A Jew, a shaman, and a herbalist are telling you the same thing? You're insane.
Basically the same thing. In a very evolved, esoteric way.
Insane.
To make a long story short...
Jesus...
Overflowing with love.
Bob...
What?
It's me. Martin Blank.
Really...? So what?
Okay. See you later.
So. You and Debi. Gonna hit that shit again?
Fine, Bob. How are you?
Never better.
Really?
Ahhh... it's all fucked up. Nothing adds up to nothing... you work your whole life, day in and day out try to make sense of it all. One day you're twentyseven and what do you get to show for it...
You could've been a contender, huh?
What am I gonna do?
What do you want to do?
I want to be an actor.
Then express yourself, Bob.
Bob. Bob Destephano.
What?
I'm Dan. Dan Koretzky.
Computer guy.
Yeah... Hey, I saw you at your dad's dealership the other day.
I sell BMW's. What do you do?
Not much, actually. My software company just went public so I'm just... hanging out, really.
Remember high school?
Sure. Listen. Why don't you join us up in the grandstands?
Welcome back! I'm Arlene Oslott Joseph.
I'm Martin Blank.
Marty, you haven't changed a bit!
Don't say that.
We had pictures put on, that way everybody knows who everybody was!
Wonderful.
So, what are you doing now?
Whatever I can get away with.
But wait. I still don't understand what you do.
I work at Kentucky Fried Chicken.
You do not.
Yes I do.
You don't...
In the corporate offices.
Oh... really?
Yeah...
What do you do?
I sell biscuits to the Southland.
You do not.
It's what I do.
You're so funny...
I sell biscuits and gravy all over the Southland
Stop it
You know those horsey biscuit gravy packets? I move all of those
No.
Sometimes we sell them to McDonald's and just change them to special barbecue sauce.
Lotta these little farmers mighty nice fellas. Trouble is they're little, they ain't got much sayso.
Shore looks like my lucky day, anyway. Gettin' some work at las'.
You sure you got ever'thing ready?
Ain't gonna be no trouble.
You ain't to hurt them fellas.
Yes, sir.
Awright. An' if she gets outa han', I'll be in the right han' corner, this side the dance floor.
Ain't gonna get outa han'.
Morning.
Morning.
You people looking for work?
Mister, we're lookin' even under boards for work.
Can you pick peaches?
We can pick anything.
Well, there's plenty of work for you about forty miles north, this road just outside Pixley. Turn east on 32 and look for Hooper's ranch. Tell 'em Spencer sent you.
What's these?
Well, I reckon you *stan'* in them little roomsan' water come down outa that there little jigger up theretake a bath!
Jes' like in the catalogues, ain't they!
I seen 'em b'fore you did.
What's this?
Now don't you go monk'ing
Now you done it! You busted it!
I never
This here's the desert an' we're right in it!
I wisht it was day.
Tom says if it's day it'll cut you gizzard smack out a you. I seen a pitcher once. They was bones ever'place.
Man bones?
Some, I guess, but mos'ly cow bones.
Git up. I got sump'n to show you.
Whatsa matter?
It's them white things, made outa dishstuff, like in the catalogues!
Come on. Ain't nobody gonna say anything.
Won't they ketch us?
Lemme go! I didn't go to do it!
Keep qui'te, will ya! Shet your mouth!
I never knowed it! All I done was pull that string!
Lissen. You done busted it. You hear? But lissen here. I won't tell nobody, y'understan'?
Please don't.
I won't if you won't tell what *I* done!
Heh'o Tom. This is Connie, my husband.
If this don't beat all! Well, I see you been busy already!
You do not see either!not yet!
Maybe it's nice on the other side. Them pitchersthem little pos'cards they was real pretty.
Aw, sure. This here's jus' a part of it. Ain't no sense a gettin' scairt right off.
Cut it out, Pa. He'p Al with the truck. Don't fret, honey. You goin' to be awright.
Tom, I jus' don't feel like nothin' a tall. Without him I jus' don't wanta live.
Maybe he'll be back. We'll leave word for him. Jus' don't cry.
Good wages, eh! Pickin' oranges an' peaches?
We gonna take whatever they got.
Whatta you think you're talkin' about? I got a han'bill here says good wages, an' I seen it in the papers they need pickers!
Awright, go on! Ain't nobody stoppin' ya!
But what about this?
I ain't gonna fret you. Go on!
But what does *that* prove?
Look at 'em! Same yella han'bill 800 pickers wanted. Awright, this man wants 800 men. So he prints up 5,000 a them han'bills an' maybe 20,000 people sees 'em. An' maybe twothree thousan' starts movin, wes' account a this han'bill. Two three thousan' folks that's crazy with worry headin' out for 800 jobs! Does that make sense?
That's Connie Rivers with her. They're married now. She's due about threefour months.
Why, she wasn't no more'n a kid when I went up.
How you get all this money?
Sol' things, chopped cottoneven Grampa. Got us about two hunnerd dollars all tol'. Shucked out seventy five for this truck, but we still got nearly a hunnerd and fifty to set out on. I figger we oughta be able to make it on that.
Easy. After all, they ain't but about *twelve* of us, is they?
Either we got to tie him up and *throw* him on the truck, or somepin. He can't stay here.
Can't tie him. Either we'll hurt him or he'll git so mad he'll hurt his self. Reckon we could git him *drunk*?
Ain't no whisky, is they?
Here we go!
California, here we come!
I figger best we leave something like this on him, lest somebody dig him up and make out he been kilt. Lotta times looks like the gov'ment got more interest in a dead man than a live one.
Not be so lonesome, either, knowin' his name is there with 'im, not just' a old fella lonesome underground.
Casy, won't you say a few words?
Got that desert yet. Gotta take her tonight. Take her in the daytime fella says she'll cut your gizzard out.
How's Granma since we got her in the tent?
She's jus' wore out, that's all.
I shore would like to stop here a while an' give her some res' but we on'y got 'bout forty dollars left. I won't feel right till we're there an' all workin' an' a little money comin' in.
Ya know, you're the second fella talked like that. I'd like to hear some more about that.
Me an' you both.
Just in case. Sit up back an' if anybody tries to climb uplet 'im have it.
I ain't got nothin' in *my* han'.
Give 'im a fryin' pan.
You wouldn't think jus' reachin' up an' pickin'd get you in the back.
Think I'll walk out an' try to fin' out what all that fuss outside the gate was. Anybody wanta come with me?
No. I'm jus' gonna set awhile an' then go to bed.
Take 'er on down, Al. I'll sign.
We gonna stay, ain't we?
You're tootin' we're gonna stay.
Fact of the matter, Muley, after what them dusters done to the land, the tenant system don't work no more. It don't even break even, much less show a profit. One man on a tractor can handle twelve or fourteen of these places. You just pay him a wage and take *all* the crop.
But we couldn't *do* on any less'n what our share is now. The chillun ain't gettin' enough to eat as it is, and they're so ragged we'd be shamed if ever'body else's chillun wasn't the same way.
I can't help that. All I know is I got my orders. They told me to tell you you got to get off, and that's what I'm telling you.
You mean get off my own land?
Now don't go blaming me. It ain't *my* fault.
Who's the Shawnee Land and Cattle Comp'ny?
It ain't nobody. It's a company.
Then who *do* we shoot?
Brother, I don't know. If I did I'd tell you. But I just don't know *who's* to blame!
Well, I'm right here to tell you, mister, ain't *nobody* going to push me off *my* land! Grampa took up this land seventy years ago. My pa was born here. We was *all* born on it, and some of us got killed on it, and some died on it. And that's what makes it ournbein' born on it, and workin' it, and dyin' on itand not no piece of paper with writin' on it! So just come on and try to push me off!
Tommy?
Muley! Where's my folks, Muley?
They gone.
I know that! But *where* they gone?
Gone over to your Uncle John's. The whole crowd of 'em, two weeks ago. But they can't stay there either, because John's got *his* notice to get off.
But what's happened? How come they got to get off? We been here fifty yearssame place.
Ever'body got to get off. Ever'body leavin', goin' to California. My folks, your folks, ever'body's folks. Ever'body but me. I ain't gettin' off.
But who done it?
Listen! That's some of what done itthe dusters. Started it, anyway. Blowin' like this, year after yearblowin' the land away, blowin' the crops away, blowin' us away now.
Are you crazy?
Some say I am. You want to hear what happened?
That's what I asked you, ain't it?
Well?
They come. They come and pushed me off.
What was the use. He was right. There wasn't a thing in the world I could do about it.
But it don't seem possiblekicked off like that!
The rest of my fambly set out for the westthere wasn't nothin' to eatbut I couldn't leave. Somepin' wouldn't let me. So now I just wander around. Sleep wherever I am. I used to tell myself I was lookin' out for things, so when they come back ever'thing would be all right. But I knowed that wan't true. There ain't nothin' to look out for. And ain't nobody comin' back. They're gone and me, I'm just an 'ol graveyard ghostthat's all in the world I am.
Listen! That's them! Them lights! Come on, we got to hide out!
Hide out for what? We ain't doin' nothin'.
You're *trespassin'*! It ain't you lan' no more! An' that's the supr'tendantwith a gun!
All you got to do is lay down an' watch.
Won't they come out here?
I don't think so. One come out here once an' I clipped him from behin' with a fence stake. They ain't bothered since.
Yeah?
Could you see your way clear to sell us a loaf of bread, ma'am.
This ain't a groc'ry store. We got bread to make san'widges with.
I know, ma'am... on'y it's for a ole lady, no teeth, gotta sof'n it with water so she can chew it, an' she's hongry.
Whyn't you buy a san'wich? We got nice san'widges.
I shore would like to do that, ma'am, but the fack is, we ain't got but a dime for it. It's all figgered out, I meanfor the trip.
You can't get no loaf a bread for a dime. We only got fifteencent loafs.
This here's a fifteencent loaf.
Would youcould you see your way to cuttin' off ten cents worth?
You can have this for ten cents.
I don't wanta rob you, ma'am.
Go aheadBert says take it.
Which ones?
There, them stripy ones.
Oh, them? Well, nothem's *two* for a penny.
Well, give me two then, ma'am.
Thank God. Oh thank God. Tommy, you didn't *bust* out, didya? You ain't got to hide, have you?
No, Ma. I'm paroled. I got my papers.
I was so scared we was goin' away without youand we'd never see each other again.
I'd a found you, Ma.
Muley tol' me what happened, Ma. Are we goin' to California true?
We *got* to, Tommy. But that's gonna be awright. I seen the han'bills, about how much work they is, an' high wages, too. But I gotta fin' out somepin' else first, Tommy. Did they hurt you, son? Did they hurt you an' make you meanmad?
Mad, Ma?
Sometimes they do.
No, Ma I was at firstbut not no more.
Sometimes they do somethin' to you, Tommy. They hurt youand you get madand then you get meanand they hurt you againand you get meaner, and meanertill you ain't no boy or no man any more, but just a walkin' chunk a meanmad. Did they hurt you like that, Tommy?
No, Ma. You don't have to worry about that.
Thank God. II don't want no mean son
How about it, Ma?
I'm ready.
Wait. There's a half a bottle a soothin' sirup here. It put the chillun to sleep.
Don't taste bad.
And they's some coffee here. I could fix him a cup...
That's right. And douse some in it.
Yes'm, that was it.
Your pa tol' me you didn't ought to cross it if you're paroled. Says they'll send you up again.
Forget it, Ma. I got her figgered out. Long as I keep outa trouble, ain't nobody gonna say a thing. All I gotta do is keep my nose clean.
Maybe they got crimes in California we don't know about. Crimes we don't even know *is* crimes.
Forget it, Ma. Jus' think about the nice things out there. Think about them grapes and orangesan' ever'body got work
Ma, you sick?
Ya say we're acrost?
Look, Ma!
Thank God! An' we're still together most of us.
Didn' you get no sleep?
No.
Was Granma bad?
Granma's dead.
When?
Since before they stopped us las' night.
An' that's why you didn't want 'em to look?
I was afraid they'd stop us an' wouldn't let us cross. But I tol' Granma. I tol' her when she was dyin'. I tol' her the fambly had ta get acrost. I tol' her we couldn't take no chances on bein' stopped.
She shore don't look prosperous. Want to go somewheres else?
On a gallon a gas? Let's set up the tent. Maybe I can fix us up some stew.
Ma, they comes a time when a man gets mad.
Tomyou tol' meyou promised you wasn't like that. You promised me.
I know, Ma. I'm a tryin'. If it was the law they was workin' with, we could take it. But it *ain't* the law. They're workin' away at our spirits. They're tryin' to make us cringe an' crawl. They're workin' on our decency.
You promised, Tommy.
I'm atryin', Ma. Honest I am.
You gotta keep clear, Tom. The fambly's breakin' up. You *got* to keep clear.
What's thatdetour?
Fust thing I'll get is coffee, cause ever'body been wantin' that, an' then some flour an' bakin' powder an' meat. Better not get no side meat right off. Save that for later. Maybe Sat'dy. Got to get some soap too. An' milk. Rosasharn's got to have some milk.
Get some sugar too, for the coffee.
You know, I jus' can't remember when I felt so good before!
Got any more, Ma?
No. That's all. You made a dollar, an' that's a dollar's worth.
I ain't full.
Well, tomorra you'll get in a full dayfull day's payan' we'll have plenty.
You be careful, Tommy. Don't you be stickin' your nose in anything.
Okay, Ma. Don't you worry.
How's it feel, Tommy?
Busted my cheek but I can still see. What'd you hear?
Looks like you done it.
I kinda thought so. Felt like it.
Folks ain't talkin' about much else. They say they got posses out. Talkin' about a lynchin'when they catch the fella.
They killed Casy first.
That ain't the way they're tellin' it. They're sayin' you done it fust.
They know whatthis fella looks like?
They know he got hit in the face.
I'm sorry, Ma. ButI didn't know what I was doin', no more'n when you take a breath. I didn't even know I was gonna do it.
It's awright, Tommy. I wisht you didn't do it, but you done what you had to do. I can't read no fault in you.
I'm gonna go away tonight. I can't go puttin' this on you folks.
Tom! They's a whole lot I don't understan', but goin' away ain't gonna ease us. They was the time when we was on the lan'. They was a bound'ry to us then. Ol' folks died off, an' little fellas come, an' we was always one thing we was the famblykinda whole an' clear. But now we ain't clear no more. They ain't nothin' keeps us clear. Alhe's ahankerin' an' a jibbitin' to go off on his own. An' Uncle John is just adraggin' along. Pa's lost his placehe ain't the head no more. We're crackin' up, Tom. They ain't no fambly now. Rosasharn she gonna have her baby, but *it* ain't gonna have no fambly. I been tryin' to keep her goin' butWinfiel' what's he gonna be, thisaway? Growin' up wild, an' Ruthie, too like animals. Got nothin' to trus'. Don't go Tom. Stay an' help. Help me.
Okay, Ma. I shouldn't, though. I know I shouldn't. But okay.
That Casy. He might a been a preacher, buthe seen a lot a things clear. He was like a lanternhe helped mw see things too.
Comes night we'll get outa here.
It's jus' till we get some distance. Then you can come out.
I'd hate to get *trapped* in here.
What is it?
Don't knowbut it's better'n this.
She's gettin' prettier, Ma.
Girl with a baby *always* gets prettier.
They was some cops here, Ma. They was takin' down the license numbers. It looks like somebody knows sump'n.
It had to come, I reckon, soon or later.
I'd like to stay. I'd like to be with ya an' see your face when you an' Pa get settled in a nice little place. I sure wish I could see you then. But I guess I won't never be able to do that. Not now.
I could hide you, Tommy.
I know you would, Ma. But I ain't gonna let you. You hide somebody that's kilt a man an'... an' you'd be in trouble too.
Awright, Tommy. What you figger you gonna do?
You know what I been thinkin' about, Ma? About Casy. About what he said, what he done, an' about how he died. An' I remember all of it.
He was a good man.
I been thinkin' about us, tooabout our people livin' like pigs, an' good rich lan' layin' fallow, or maybe one fella with a million acres, while a hundred thousan' farmers is starvin'. An' I been wonderin' if all our folks got together an' yelled
Tommy, they'll drive you, an' cut you down like they done to Casy.
They gonna drive me anyways. Soon or later they'll get me, for one thing if not another. Until then...
You don't aim to kill nobody, Tom!
No, Ma. Not that. That ain't it. But long as I'm a outlaw, anyways, maybe I can do sump'n. Maybe I can jus' fin' out sump'n. Jus' scrounge aroun' an' try to fin' out what it is that's wrong, an then see if they ain't sump'n could be done about it. But I ain't thought it out clear, Ma. I can't. I don't know enough.
How'm I gonna know 'bout you? They might kill you an' I wouldn't know. They might hurt you. How'm I gonna know?
Well, maybe it's like Casy says, a fella ain't got a soul of his own, but on'y a piece of a big soulthe one big soul that belongs to ever'body an' then...
Then what, Tom?
Then it don't matter. Then I'll be all aroun' in the dark. I'll be ever'wherewherever you look. Wherever there's a fight so hungry people can eat, I'll be there. Wherever there's a cop beatin' up a guy, I'll be there. I'll be in the way guys yell when they're madan' I'll be in the way kids laugh when they're hungry an' they know supper's ready. An' when our people eat the stuff they raise, an' live in the houses they build, why, I'll be there too.
I don't understan' it, Tom.
Me neither. It's jus' stuff I been thinkin' about. Gimme you han', Ma. Goodby.
Goodby, Tom. Laterwhen it's blowed overyou'll come back? You'll try to fin' us?
Sure. Goodby.
Goodby, Tommy.
How 'bout it?
Go get Tom an' Al. I dunno what to do. I got to feed the fambly. What'm I gonna do with these here?
You don't know *no* girls around here. You're lyin', *You're runnin' away*!
Cut it out, Ma, or I'll
You'll *what*?... Come on, Pa. Come on an' whup me. Jus' try it.
Now don't get sassy, Ma.
Al ain't agoin' away, an' you gonna *tell* him he ain't agoin' away. An' if you think diff'unt, you gotta whup me first. So some on.
I never *seen* her so sassy. An' she ain't so young, neither!
Jus' sassy, that's all.
Sassy my foot! I'm jus' sick and tar'd a my folks tryin' to bust up. All we got lef' in the *worl'* is the famblyan' right down at bottom that's all we *got* to have! Ef some of us dies, we can't he'p thatbut ain't nobody else runnin' away!
Connie's gone. Lit out this e'enin'said he didn't know it was gonna be like this.
Glad to get shet of him. Never was no good an' never will be
Pa! Shh!
How come I got to shh? Run out, didn't he?
Sump'n got to happen soon. We got one day's more grease, two day's flour, an' ten potatoes. After that... An' Rosasharn, we got to remember she's gonna be due soon.
It sure is hell jus' tryin' to get enough to eat.
That!
They charge extry at the comp'ny store but they ain't no other place.
Know where we're agoin'?
Don't matter. Just got to goan' keep agoin', till we get plenty a distance away from here.
Make her easy, John. Watch her.
She'll be awright.
Maybe, but we shore takin' a beatin'.
I know. Maybe that makes us tough. Rich fellas come up an' they die, an' their kids ain't no good, an' they die out. But we keep acomin'. We're the people that live. Can't nobody wipe us out. Can't nobody lick us. We'll go on forever, Pa. We're the people.
Ma... all this, will it hurt the baby?
Now don't you go gettin' nimsymimsy.
Sometimes I'm all jumpy inside.
Well, can't nobody get through nine *months* without sorrow.
But will ithurt the baby?
They use' to be a sayin': A chile born outa sorrow'll be a happy chile. An' another: Born outa too much joy'll be a doleful boy. That's the way I always heard it.
You don't ever get scairt, do you, Ma?
Sometimes. A little. Only it ain't scairt so much. It's just waitin' an' wonderin'. But when sump'n happens that I got to do sump'n I'll do it.
Don't it ever scare you it won't be nice in California like we think?
No. No, it don't. I can't do that. I can't let m'self. All I can do is see how soon they gonna wanta eat again. They'd all get upset if I done anymore 'n that. They all depen' on me jus' thinkin' about that. That's my partthat an' keepin' the fambly together.
Maybe Connie went to get some books to study up with. He's gonna be a radio expert, ya know. Maybe he figgered to suprise us.
Maybe that's jus' what he done.
We gonna live here?
Why, sure. It won't be so bad once we get her washed out.
I like the tent better.
This got a floor. Wouldn't leak when it rains.
Anybody ask anything?
No'm.
Stand by the door.
Ma... you know, if Connie was here I wouldn't min' any a this.
I know, honey, an' just as soon as we get settled Al's gonna set out an' look for him. How 'bout gas, Tommy?
Ma... Ma, II can't go to the dance. I jus' can't Ma. I can't hardly stan' it, with Connie not herean' me this way.
Why, honey, it makes folks happy to see a girl that waymakes folks sort of giggly an' happy.
I can't he'p it, Ma. It don't make *me* giggly an' happy.
You an' me's goin' togetherjus' you an' me. We're agoin' to that dance an' we're agoin' to jus' set an' watch. If anybody says to come dancewhy I'll say you're poorly. But you an' me, we're gonna hear the music an' see the fun.
An' you won't let nobody touch me?
Noan' look what I got for you.
You take this. I ain't hungry.
Whatta ya mean? You ain't et today.
I know, but I got a stomickache. I ain't hungry.
You take that plate inside the tent an' you eat it.
Wouldn't be no use. I'd still see 'em inside the tent.
You git. Go on now, git. You ain't doin' no good. They ain't enough for you.
I got to get a lot curiouser than I amwith all them cops out there.
Okay. I be back a little later.
Where you going?
California.
How long you plan to be in Arizona?
No longer'n we can get acrost her.
Got any plants?
No plants.
Okay. Go ahead, but you better keep movin'.
Sure. We aim to.
Where you think you're going?
Thought I'd take a walk. Any law against it?
Well, you just turn around and walk the other way.
You mean I can't even get outa here?
Not tonight you can't. Want to walk back?or you want me to whistle up some help and take you back?
I'll walk back.
You know what I al'ays said: "Tom'll come bustin' outa that jail like a bull through a corral fence." Can't keep no Joad in jail!
I didn't bust out. They lemme out. Howya, Noah. Howya, Uncle John.
What's the matter, Grampa?
Ain't nothin' the matter. I just ain't agoin', that's all.
How 'bout Granma?
Take her with you!
Ma. Pa. Grampa, his eyes hurt and hunted and frightened and bewildered, scratches in the dirt.
And can't nobody *make* me go, either! Ain't nobody here *man* enough to make me! I'm astayin'.
*Ain't* agoin'... ain't agoin'...
'S all right, Grampa. You just kind a tar'd, that's all. Somebody fix a pallet.
What you mean you ain't goin'? We *got* to go. We got no place to stay.
I ain't talkin' about you, I'm talkin' about me. And I'm astayin'. I give her a good goin' over all night long and I'm astayin'.
But you can't *do* that, Grampa. This here land is goin' under the tractor. We *all* got to git out.
All but me! I'm astayin'.
Now listen, Grampa. Listen to me, just a minute.
And I ain't gonna listen either. I tol' you what I'm gonna do. And I don't give a hoot in a hollow if they's oranges and grapes crowdin' a fella outa bed even, I ain't a goin' to California! This here's my country. I b'long *here*. It ain't no good but it's mine.
Easy, *easy!* You wanta bust his head wide open? Pull his arms, John.
Ain't agoin', thas all...
Put somepin' over him, so he won't git sunstruck. Ever'body set now? Awright, Al, letta go!
What's he fixin' to do, ma?
Hush!
I could break up some bresh if you want me, ma'am.
You want to get ast to eat, hunh?
Yes, ma'am.
Didn' you have no breakfast?
No, ma'am. They ain't no work hereabouts. Pa's in tryin' to sell some stuff to get gas so's we can get along.
Didn' none of these have no breakfast?
Workin'. Pickin' peaches. But I seen a bunch a fellas yellin' when we come in, so I come out to see what's goin' on. What's it all about?
This here's a strike.
Well, fi' cents a box ain't much, but a fella can eat.
Fi' cents! They pain' you fi' cents?
Sure. We made a buck since midday.
An' the nex' thing you know you'll be out, because they got it all figgered down to a Tuntil the harvest is in you're a *migrant* workerafterwards, just a bum.
Five they're agettin' now, an' that's all they're int'rested in. I know exackly what Pa'd say. He'd jus' say it wasn't none a his business.
You people got a lotta nerve.
What you mean?
Crossin' the desert in a jalopy like this.
You been acrost?
Sure, plenty, but not in no wreck like this.
If we broke down maybe somebody'd give us a han'.
Well, maybe. But I'd hate to be doin' it. Takes more nerve than I got.
It don't take no nerve to do somep'n when there ain't nothin' else you can do.
How about a lift, mister?
Can't you see that sticker?
Goin' far?
Just a few miles. I'd a walked her if my dogs wasn't pooped out.
Lookin' for a job?
No, my old man got a place, forty acres. He's a sharecropper, but we been there a long time.
Oh!
Been doin' a job?
Yeah.
I seen your hands. You been swinging a pick or a sledgethat shines up your hands. I notice little things like that all the time. Got a trade?
Why don't you get to it, buddy?
Get to what?
You know what I mean. You been givin' me a goin' over ever since I got in. Whyn't you go on and ask me where I been?
I don't stick my nose in nobody's business.
Nawnot much!
I stay in my own yard.
Listen. That big nose of yours been goin' over me like a sheep in a vegetable patch. But I ain't keepin' it a secret. I been in the penitentiary. Been there four years. Like to know anything else?
You ain't got to get sore.
Go ahead. Ask me anything you want.
I didn't mean nothing.
Me neither. I'm just tryin' to get along without shovin' anybody around, that's all. See that road up ahead?
Yeah.
That's where I get off.
I never asked you!
Sure, but you'd a throwed a fit if I hadn't tol' you.
I don't like nobody drawin' a bead on me.
Then what are you doin' this kind a thing foragainst your own people?
For three dollars a day, that's what I'm doin' it for. I got two little kids. I got a wife and my wife's mother. Them people got to eat. Fust and on'y thing I got to think about is my own folks. What happens to other folks is their lookout.
But this is *my land*, son. Don't you understand?
*Used* to be your land. B'longs to the comp'ny now.
Have it your own way, son, but just as sure as you touch my house with that cat I'm gonna blow you plumb to kingdom come.
You ain't gonna blow nobody nowhere. First place, you'd get hung and you know it. For another, it wouldn't be two days before they'd have another guy here to take my place.
They shore don't waste no time! Take her out.
Save your strength, lady. Get goin', buddy. No campin' here.
We ain't campin'. We jus' stoppin' a minute
Lissen, I heard that before
Fella named Spencer sent ussaid they was work pickin' peaches.
Want to work, do you?
Sure do.
Pull up behind that car. Okay for this one. Take 'em through.
What's the matter? What's happened?
Little trouble up ahead, but you'll get through. Just follow the line.
Seems like we wasn't never gonna do nothin' but move. I'm so tar'd.
Women is always tar'd.
You ain'tyou ain't sorry, are you, honey?
No, butbut you seen that advertisement in the Spicy Western Story magazine. Don't pay nothin'. Jus' send 'em the coupon an' you're a radio expertnice clean work.
But we can still do it, honey.
I ought to done it thenan' not come on any trip like this.
Say, ain't you young Tom Joadol' Tom's boy?
Yeah. On my way home now.
Well, I do declare! I baptized you, son.
Why, you're the preacher!
*Used* to be. Not no more. I lost the call. But boy, I sure *used* to have it! I'd get an irrigation ditch so squirmin' full of repented sinners I pretty near *drowned* half of 'em! But not no more. I lost the sperit.
Pa always said you was never cut out to be a preacher.
I got nothin' to preach about no morethat's all. I ain't so sure o' things.
Maybe you should a got yourself a wife.
At my meetin's I used to get the girls gloryshoutin' till they about passed out. Then, I'd go to comfort 'emand always end up by lovin' 'em. I'd feel bad, an' pray, an' pray, but it didn't do no good. Next time, do it again. I figgered there just wasn't no hope for me.
I never let one go by me when I could catch her.
But you wasn't a preacher. A girl was just a girl to you. But to me they was holy vessels. I was savin' their souls. I ast myselfwhat *is* this call, the Holy Sperit? Maybe *that's* love. Why, I love everybody so much I'm fit to bust sometimes! So maybe there ain't no sin an' there ain't no virtue. There's just what people do. Some things folks do is nice, and some ain't so nice. But that's as far as any man's got a right to say.
Have a little snort?
Course I'll say grace if somebody sets out the food but my heart ain't in it. Nice drinkin' liquor.
Ought to be. That's fact'ry liquor. Cost me a buck.
Been out travelin' around?
Didn't you hear? It was in the papers.
No, I never. What?
I been in the penitentiary for four years.
Excuse me for asking.
I don't mind any more. I'd do what I done again. I killed a guy at a dance. We was drunk. He got a knife in me and I laid him out with a shovel. Knocked his head plumb to squash.
And you ain't ashamed?
He had a knife in me. That's why they only gave me seven years. Got out in fourparole.
Ain't you seen your folks since then?
No, but I aim to before sundown. Gettin' kind of excited about it, too. Which way you going?
It don't matter. Ever since I lost the sperit it looks like I just as soon go one way as the other. I'll go your way.
Maybe Ma'll have pork for supper. I ain't had pork but four times in four yearsevery Christmas.
I'll be glad to see you pa. Last time I seen him was at a baptizin', an' he had one a the bigges' doses of the Holy Sperit I ever seen. He go to jumpin' over bushes, howlin' like a dogwolf in moontime. Fin'ly he picks hisself out a bush big as a piana an' he let out a squawk an' took a run at that bush. Well, sir, he cleared her but he bust his leg snap in two. They was a travellin' dentist there and he set her, an' I give her a prayin' over, but they wasn't no more Holy Sperit in your pa after that.
Lissen. This wind's fixin't to *do* somepin'!
Shore it is. It always is, this time a year.
Is it fur?
Just around that next bend.
Your granma was a great one, too. The third time she got religion she go it so powerful she knocked down a fullgrowed deacon with her fist.
That's our place.
They're all goneor dead.
They never wrote you nothing?
No. They wasn't people to write.
This used to be mine. I give it to Grampa when I went away. You reckon they could be dead?
I never heard nothin' about it.
This is Muley Graves. You remember the preacher, don't you?
I ain't no preacher anymore.
All right, you remember the *man* then.
She's settlin'.
What you figger to do?
It's hard to say. Stay here till mornin' an' then go on over to Uncle John's, I reckon. After that I don't know.
Think she'll hold?
If she does it'll be a miracle outa Scripture.
I ain't no more a preacher, you know.
We know. But ain't none of our folks ever been buried without a few words.
I'll say 'eman' make it short. This here ol' man jus' lived a life an' jus' died out of it. I don't know whether he was good or bad, an' it don't matter much. Heard a fella say a poem once, an' he says, "All that lives is holy." But I wouldn't pray for jus' a ol' man that's dead, because he's awright. If I was to pray I'd pray for the folks that's alive an' don't know which way to turn. Grampa here, he ain't got no more trouble like that. He's got his job all cut out for 'imso cover 'im up and let 'im get to it.
How about us? Is that the truth for us?
I don't know.
Gimme that gun. Now git outa here. Go down in them willows an' wait.
I ain't gonna run.
He seen you, Tom! You wanta be fingerprinted? You wanta get sent back for breakin' parole?
You're right!
Hide in the willows. If it's awright to come back I'll give you four high whistles.
What's the matter?
Casy! What you doin' here?
Well, if it ain't Tom Joad. How ya, boy?
Thought you was in jail.
No, I done my time an' got out. Come on in.
Lookie, Tom. We come to work here. They tell us it's gonna be fi' cents. But they was a whole lot of us, so the man says two an' a half cents. Well, a fella can't even eat on that, an' if he got kids... So we says we won't take it. So they druv us off. Now they're payin' you fivebut when they bust this strike ya think they'll pay five?
I dunno. Payin' five now.
I don't expeck we can las' much longer some a the folks ain't et for two days. You goin' back tonight?
I aim to.
Welltell the folks inside how it is, Tom. Tell 'em they're starvin' us and stabbin' theirself in the back. An' as sure as God made little apples it's goin' back to two an' a half jus' as soon as they clear us out.
I'll tell 'em. But I don't know how. Never seen so many guys with guns. Wouldn't even let us talk today.
Try an' tell 'em, Tom. They'll get two an' a half, jus' the minute we're gone. An' you know what that is? That's one ton a peaches picked an' carried for a dollar. That way you can't even buy food enough to keep you alive! Tell 'em to come out with us, Tom! Them peaches is *ripe*. Two days out an' they'll pay *all* of us five!
They won't. They're agettin' five an' they don't care about nothin' else.
But jus' the minute they ain't strike breakin' they won't get no five!
I guess that's right. Have to take a beatin' before he'll know.
We was outa food. Tonight we had meat. Not much, but we had it. Think Pa's gonna give up his meat on account a other fellas? An' Rosasharn needs milk. Think Ma's gonna starve that baby jus' cause a bunch a fellas is yellin' outside a gate?
Got to learn, like I'm alearnin'. Don't know it right yet myself, but I'm tryin' to fin' out. That's why I can't ever be a preacher again. Preacher got to *know*. I don't. I got to *ask*.
Can't tell if you hear it or not. You hear it, Tom?
I hear it. I think they's some guys comin' this way, lots of 'em. We better get outa here.
I don't mean to be nosy, y'understand. I just got to have certain information. What's your name?
Joad. Tom Joad.
How many of you?
Camp site costs a dollar a week, but you can work it out, carrying garbage, keeping the camp cleanstuff like that.
We'll work it out. What's this committee you talkin' about?
We got five sanitary units. Each one elects a central committee man. They make the laws, an' what they say goes.
Are you aimin' to tell me that the fellas that run this camp is jus' fellascampin' here?
That's the way it is.
An' you say no cops?
No cop can come in here without a warrant.
I can't hardly believe it. Camp I was in once, they burned it outthe deputies an' some of them poolroom fellas.
They don't get in here. Sometimes the boys patrol the fences, especially dance nights.
You got dances too?
We got the best dances in the county every Saturday night.
Say, who runs this place?
Government.
Why ain't they more like it?
*You* find out, I can't.
Anything like work aroun' here?
Can't promise you that, but there'll be a licensed agent here tomorrow mornin', if you want to talk to him.
Ma's shore gonna like it here. She ain't been treated decent for a long time.
That cut you got?
Crate fell on me.
Better take care of it. Store manager'll give you some stuff for it in the morning. Goodnight.
Goodnight.
Open up! We hear you got a riot.
Riot? I don't see no riot. Who're you?
Deputy sheriffs.
Got a warrant?
We don't need a warrant if it's a riot.
Well, I don't know what you gonna do about it, because I don't hear no riot an' I don't see no riot, an' what's more I don't believe they *is* no riot. Look for yourself.
House 25. Number's on the door.
Okay, mister. Whatcha payin'?
Two and a half cents.
Two an' a half! Say, mister, a man can't make his dinner on that.
Take it or leave it. There's 200 men coming from the South that'll be glad to get it.
Butbut how we gonna eat?
Look, I didn't set the price. I'm just working here. If you want it, take it. If you don't, turn right around and beat it.
Which way is House 25?
Want to work?
Sure, but what is this?
That's not your affair. Name.
Joad.
How many men?
Four.
Women?
Two.
Kids?
Two.
Can all of you work?
Why, I guess so.
Okay. House 63. Wages 5 cents a box. No bruised fruit. Move along and go to work right away.
Kinda pie y'got?
Banana cream, pineapple cream, chocolate creamand apple.
Cut me off a hunk a that banana cream, and a cuppa java.
Them wasn't twoforacent candy.
What's it to you?
Them was nickel apiece candy.
So long.
Hey, wait a minute. You got change comin'.
You mean that hitchhiker? Little short fella with a pale face?
I guess that's what he looked like.
We just picked him up on the way in. He went away this mornin' when the rate dropped.
What'd he look like again?
Short fella. Pale face.
Was he bruised up this mornin'? About the face?
I didn't see nothin'.
Okay. Go on.
You bust outa jail, Tom?
Naw. They paroled me.
Oh.
What a place! How'd you like to walk acrost her?
People done it. If they could, we could.
Lots must a died, too.
Well, we ain't out a it yet.
Tom? You can come on. They gone.
We got to get outa here right away. Ever'body here? Where's Uncle John?
Maybe the road's out.
I don't know what these cops got to do with it but I don't like it. An' these here are our own people, all of 'em. I don't like this.
Think I'll look aroun' an' see if I can't meet me a girl.
Thing's been workin' on me, what they was yellin' about. Got me all curious.
She's hotter'n a heifer.
Fanbelt's shot.
Any gas?
Gallon or two?
Well, looks like we done it this time awright!
Looks like about a mile. Reckon she'll make it?
She got to make it.
Well, you said anybody can waltz... How'm *I* doin'?
Don't hold me so tight.
Why, I ain't hardly touchin' you!
You're *ticklin' me!*
That comes from not holdin' you tight *enough.*
Now I can't breathe.
Ain't you gonna look back, Ma?give the ol' place a last look?
We're goin' to California, ain't we? Awright then, let's *go* to California.
That don't sound like you, Ma. You never was like that before.
I never had my house pushed over before. I never had my fambly stuck out on the road. I never had to lose... ever'thing I had in life.
I'd come back
But ef you *do* whup me, I swear you better not ever go to sleep again, because the minute you go to sleep, or you're settin' down, or your back's turned, I'm gonna knock you bellyup with a bucket.
But it ain't runnin' away, Ma. All I wanta do is go away with another fella an' look aroun' for work by ourself
Well, you ain't agoin'! Ain't *nobody* else agoin'! We *got* here an' we gonna *stay* here, together! As long as we got the fambly unbroke I ain't scared, but it's a long bitter road we got ahead of us an' I'm here to tell ya ef anybody else tries to bust us up anymore I'm agoin' cat wild with this here piece a bararn!
Ready, Ma?
I'll get Rosasharn.
Maybe. Maybe twenny days work, maybe *no* days work. We ain't got it till we get it.
Whatsa matter, Ma? Gettin' scared?
No. Ain't ever gonna be scared no more. I was, though. For a while I thought we was beat*good* an' beat. Looked like we didn't have nothin' in the worl' but enemieswasn't *no*body frien'ly anymore. It made me feel bad an' scared toolike we was lost... an' nobody cared.
Watch me pass that Chevvy.
Woman can change better'n a man. Man lives in jerksbaby born, or somebody dies, that's a jerkgets a farm, or loses one, an' that's a jerk. With a woman it's all one flow, like a stream, little eddies, little waterfalls, but the river it goes right on. Woman looks at it like that.
Look at that ol' coffeepot steam!
Go on. Get in your tent. You don't know nothin'.
How 'bout you?
*Some*body got to take the blame. They just *got* to hang it on somebody, you know. An' I ain't doin' nothin' but set around.
But ain't no reason
Lissen. I don't care nothin' about you, but if you mess in this, your whole fambly li'ble to get in trouble, an' Tom get sent back to the penitentiary.
Okay. I think you're a darn fool, though.
Sure. Why not?
She'll prob'ly ride like a bull calf but she'll ride!
Reckon we better begin roustin' 'em out if we aim to get outa here by daylight. How about it, John? How you boys comin'?
Will ya look at her!
I never knowed they was anything like her!
Leave him alone, MaAl's just billy goatin' around
Sure! I was just aimin' to meet up with a couple girls I know.
Ready, Pa?
Let 'er go, Gallagher!
Twenty days work, oh boy!
Be glad to get my han' on some cotton. That's the kin' a pickin' I understan'.
You doin' the hirin'?
Well, I'm contracting the land.
All right, mister. I'll go. You just show your license to contrack, an' then you make out a orderwhere an' when an' how much you gonna payan' you sign it an' we'll go.
You trying to tell me how to run my own business?
'F we're workin' for you, it's our business too. An' how do we know you ain't one a the guys that sent these things out?
Listen, Smart Guy. I'll run my business my own way. I got work. If you wanta take it, okay. If not, just sit here, that's all.
Twicet now I've fell for that line. Maybe he needs a thousan' men. So he get's five thousan' there, an' he'll pay fifteen cents a hour. An' you guys'll have to take it 'cause you'll be hungry. 'F he wants to hire men, let him write it out an' say what he's gonna pay. Ast to see his license. He ain't allowed by law to contrack men without a license.
Joe!
You suck.
What?
I've been sitting over there for forty five minutes waiting for you to come talk to me. But I'm just tired now and I have to go home and I wasn't going to keep sitting there waiting for you.
I'm Will.
Skylar. And by the way. That guy over there is a real dick and I just wanted you to know he didn't come with us.
I kind of got that impression.
Well, look, I have to go. Gotta' get up early and waste some more money on my overpriced education.
I didn't mean you. Listen, maybe...
Here's my number.
Great, or maybe we could go somewhere and just eat a bunch of caramels.
What?
When you think about it, it's just as arbitrary as drinking coffee.
Okay, sounds good.
Five minutes.
What?
I was trying to be smooth. But at twelvefifteen I was gonna come over there and talk to you.
See, it's my life story. Five more minutes and I would have got to hear your best pickup line.
The caramel thing is my pickup line.
Yeah?
It's Will, the really funny good looking guy you met at the bar?
I'm sorry, I don't recall meeting anyone who fits that description.
Okay, you got me. It's the ugly, obnoxious, toothless loser who got drunk and wouldn't leave you alone all night.
Oh Will! I was wondering when you'd call.
Yeah, I figured maybe sometime this week we could go to a cafe and have some caramels.
Sounds good, where are you now?
You aren't, by any chance, Prelaw? Are you?
I don't know, it was just kind of the boring suburban thing. Private school, Harvard, and now Med. School. I actually figured out that at the end of it, my brain will be worth a quarter of a million dollars. I shouldn't have told you that...
I bet your parents were happy to pay.
I was happy to pay. I inherited the money.
Is Harvard gettin' all that money?
Stanford. I'm leaving in June after I graduate.
So you just want to use me and go?
Well, I'm gonna experiment on you for my anatomy class, then go.
In that case, fine. Want to see my magic trick?
Sure.
Now, I'm gonna make all these caramels disappear.
Okay...
Have you ever seen Annie Hall?
No.
Well, there's this part of the movie that's about how there's always this tension on a first date where both people are thinking about what's going to happen with the whole 'good night kiss' thing.
I really don't 'date' that much.
You know what I mean. I know you've at least thought about it.
No I haven't...
Yes you have. You were thinking you were gonna get a good night kiss.
No I wasn't...
Yes you were.
I was kinda' hopin' to get a "good night laid" but...I'll take a kiss.
Oh, you will?
No...I was hoping to get a kiss.
Then why don't we just get it out of the way.
Free?
Hey, I spent all my money on those caramels.
You grew up around here?
Not far from here, South Boston.
How was that?
Pretty boring, I guess.
I bet you have a great family.
You know, nothing special.
You have a lot of brothers and sisters?
Do I have a lot of brothers and sisters?
Yeah.
Well, Irish Catholic. What do you think?
How many?
You wouldn't believe me if I told you.
What, five?
I have twelve big brothers.
Not a chance.
Yup, you're lookin' at lucky thirteen.
Bullshit.
I swear to God.
Your house must have been a zoo.
It was great. There was always someone to play with, give you advice.
Do you know all their names?
'Course I do, they're my brothers.
Well...
Marky, Ricky, Danny, Terry, Mikey, Davey, Timmy, Tommy, Joey, Robby, Johnny, and Brian.
Do you keep in touch with them?
All the time. We all live in Southie. I live with three of them now.
I want to meet them.
We'll do that.
Where have you been?
I'm sorry, I been real busy.
You were busy? You know, I really was waiting for you to call me.
Sorry. I'm sorry. Give me another crack at it. Let me take you out.
You should have called. I have an "O chem" lab due tomorrow and it's impossible. It's not an excuse dummy. I want to go out with you. But look:
Promise?
If you bring the caramels.
I couldn't wait till tomorrow.
How the hell did you do that?
Didn't your mother ever tell you not to look a gift horse n the mouth?
I'm supposed to understand this.
You're not going into surgery tomorrow are you?
No.
Then let's go have some fun.
Why do we always stay here?
'Cause it's nicer than my place.
I've never seen your place.
Exactly.
What about your friends? Or your brothers? When do I get to meet them?
They don't come over here that much.
I think I can make it to South Boston.
Aah, it's kind of a hike.
Is it me you're hiding from them or the other way around?
All right, all right. We'll go.
When?
Sometime. I don't know. Next week.
What if I said I wouldn't sleep with you again until you let me meet your friends?
I'd say... It's only four in the mornin', they're prob'ly up.
You men are shameful. If you're not thinking of your weiner then you're acting on its behalf.
Then on behalf of my weiner, I'd like to ask for an advance.
I thought you said you'd show me your place.
Not tonight.
How's it goin'?
Fine.
Want me to take a look?
No.
C'mon, give me a peek and we'll go to the battin' cages.
It's important that I learn this.
Why is it important to you? If I inherited all that money, the only thing important to me would be workin' on my swing.
Clearly.
You're rich. What do you have to worry about?
Rich? I have an inheritance. It's two handred and fifty thousand dollars. That's exactly what it'll cost me, minus about five hundred bucks, to go all the way through med school. This is what I'm doing with that money. I could have done anything I wanted. I could have expanded my wardrobe, substantially.
Instead you're going to bust your ass for five years so you can be broke? SKYLAR No, so I can be a doctor.
All right, Mr. Nosey Parker. Let me ask you a question? Do you have a photographic memory?
I guess. I don't know. How do you remember your phone number?
Have you ever studied Organic Chemistry?
Some, a little.
Just for fun?
I guess so.
Nobody does organic chemistry for "fun." It's unnecessary. Especially for someone like you.
Like me?
Yeah. Someone like you who divides his time, fairly evenly, between the batting cages and bars.
Do you play the piano?
Come one Will. I just want to know.
I'm trying to explain it to you. So you play the piano. When you look at the keys, you see music, you see Mozart.
I see "Hot Cross Buns," but okay.
Well all right, Beethoven. He looked at a piano and saw music. The fuckin' guy was deaf when he composed the Ode to Joy. They had to turn him around to take a bow because he couldn't hear the crowd going crazy behind him. Stone deaf. He saw all of that music in his head.
So, do you play the piano?
Not a lick. I look at a piano and I see black and white keys, three pedals and a box of wood. Beethoven, Mozart, they looked at it and it just made sense to them. They saw a piano and they could play. I couldn't paint you a picture, I probably can't hit the ball out of Fenway Park and I can't play the piano
But you can do my Ochem lab in under an hour, you can
When it came to stuff like that I could always just play.
Will? Are you awake?
No.
Come with me to California.
What?
I want you to come with me.
How do you know that?
I know. I just do.
Yeah, but how do you know?
I don't know. I just feel it.
And you're sure about that?
Yeah, I'm sure.
'Cause that's a serious thing you're sayin'. I mean, we might be in California next week and you could find out somethin' about me that you don't like. And you might feel like "hey this is a big mistake." But you can't take it back, 'cause you know it's real serious and you can't take somethin' like that back. Now I'm in California, 'cause you asked me to come. But you don't really want me there. And I'm stuck in California with someone who really doesn't want me there and just wishes they had a takeback.
"Takeback?" What is that? I don't want a takeback. I want you to come to California with me.
I can't go out to California.
Why not?
One, because I have a job here and two because I live here
Look, Will if you're not in love with me, you can say that.
I'm not sayin' I'm not in love with you.
Then what are you afraid of?
What do you mean "What am I afraid of?"
Why won't you come with me? What are you so scared of?
What am I scared of?
Well, what aren't you scared of? You live in your safe little world where nobody challenges you and you're scared shitless to do anything else
Don't tell me about my world. You're the one that's afraid. You just want to have your little fling with the guy from the other side of town and marry
Is that what you think
some prick from Stanford that your parents will approve of. Then you'll sit around with the rest of the upper crust kids and talk about how you went slummin' too.
I inherited that money when I was thirteen, when my father died.
At least you have a mother.
Fuck you! You think I want this? That money's a burden to me. Every day I wake up and I wish I could give that back. I'd give everything I have back to spend one more day with my father. But that's life. And I deal with it. So don't put that shit on me. You're the one that's afraid.
What the fuck am I afraid of?!
You're afraid of me. You're afraid that I won't love you back. And guess what? I'm afraid too. But at least I have the balls to it give it a shot. At least I'm honest with you.
I'm not honest?
What about your twelve brothers?
Oh, is that what this is about? You want to hear that I don't really have any brothers? That I'm a fuckin' orphan? Is that what you want to hear?
Yes, Will. I didn't even know that?
No, you don't want to hear that.
Yes, I do, Will.
You don't want to hear that I got cigarettes put out on me when I was a little kid. That this isn't surgery
Yes I do. Did you ever think that maybe I could help you? That maybe that's the point, that we're a team?
What, you want to come in here and save me? Is that what you want to do? Do I have a sign that says "save me" on my back?
I don't want to "save" you. I just want to be with you. I love you. I love you!
Don't bullshit me! Don't fuckin' bullshit me!
You know what I want to hear? I want to hear that you don't love me. If you tell me that, then I'll leave you alone. I won't ask any questions and I won't be in your life.
I just wanted to call before you left. I'm takin' all these job interviews. So I won't just be a construction worker.
I never cared about that.
Yeah.
I love you, Will. No takebacks.
Take care.
Goodbye.
Did you buy all these books retail, or do you send away for like a "shrink kit" that comes with all these volumes included?
Have you read all these books, Will?
Probably not.
How about the ones on that shelf?
Yeah, I read those.
What did you think?
I'm not here for a fuckin' book report. They're your books, why don't you read 'em?
I did.
That must have taken you a long time.
Yeah, it did take me a long time.
"A History of the United States, Volume I." If you want to read a real history book, read Howard Zinn's "A People's History of the United States." That book will knock you on your ass.
How about Noam Chomsky's "Manufacturing Consent?"
You people baffle me. You spend all this money on beautiful, fancy books and they're the wrong fuckin' books.
You think so?
Whatever blows your hair back.
Guy your age shouldn't smoke so much. Stunt your growth.
You're right. It really gets in the way of my jazzercizing.
Yes, I do.
Nautilus?
Free weights. WILL Oh yeah? Me too. What do you bench?
285.
Oh.
Yeah. Do you paint?
No.
Crayons?
This is a real piece of shit.
Tell me what you really think.
Poor color composition, lousy use of space. But that shit doesn't really concern me.
What does?
The color here, see how dark it is? It's interesting.
What is?
I think you're one step away from cutting your ear off.
Oh, "Starry Night" time, huh?
You ever heard the saying, "any port in a storm?"
Sure, how 'bout "still waters run deep"
Well, maybe that means you.
Maybe what mea
Maybe you should be a patient and sit down.
Maybe you married the wrong woman.
Watch your mouth.
That's it isn't it? You married the wrong woman. She leave you? Was she bangin' someone else?
If you ever disrespect my wife again...I will end you.
Time's up.
So what's with this place? You have a swan fetish? Is this something you'd like to talk about?
I was thinking about what you said to me the other day, about my painting. I stayed up half the night thinking about it and then something occured to me and I fell into a deep peaceful sleep and haven't thought about you since. You know what occurred to me?
No.
You're just a boy. You don't have the faintest idea what you're talking about.
Why thank you.
You've never been out of Boston.
No.
So if I asked you about art you could give me the skinny on every art book ever written...Michelangelo? You know a lot about him I bet. Life's work, criticisms, political aspirations. But you couldn't tell me what it smells like in the Sistine Chapel. You've never stood there and looked up at that beautiful ceiling. And if I asked you about women I'm sure you could give me a syllabus of your personal favorites, and maybe you've been laid a few times too. But you couldn't tell me how it feels to wake up next to a woman and be truly happy. If I asked you about war you could refer me to a bevy of fictional and nonfictional material, but you've never been in one. You've never held your best friend's head in your lap and watched him draw his last breath, looking to you for help. And if I asked you about love I'd get a sonnet, but you've never looked at a woman and been truly vulnerable. Known that someone could kill you with a look. That someone could rescue you from grief. That God had put an angel on Earth just for you. And you wouldn't know how it felt to be her angel. To have the love be there for her forever. Through anything, through cancer. You wouldn't know about sleeping sitting up in a hospital room for two months holding her hand and not leaving because the doctors could see in your eyes that the term "visiting hours" didn't apply to you. And you wouldn't know about real loss, because that only occurs when you lose something you love more than yourself, and you've never dared to love anything that much. I look at you and I don't see an intelligent confident man, I don't see a peer, and I don't see my equal. I see a boy. Nobody could possibly understand you, right Will? Yet you presume to know so much about me because of a painting you saw. You must know everything about me. You're an orphan, right?
You know, I was on this plane once. And I'm sittin' there and the captain comes on and is like "we'll be cruising at 35,000 feet," and does his thing, then he puts the mike down but forgets to turn it off. Then he says "man, all I want right now is a blowjob and a cup of coffee." So the stewardess goes runnin' up towards the cockpit to tell him the mike's still on, and this guy in the back of the plane goes "don't forget the coffee!"
You've never been on a plane.
I know, but the joke's better if I tell it in the first person.
Yeah? You got a lady now?
Yeah, I went on a date last week.
How'd it go?
Fine.
Well, are you going out again?
I don't know.
Why not?
Haven't called her.
Jesus Christ, you are an amateur.
I know what I'm doing. She's different from the other girls I met. We have a really good time. She's smart, beautiful, fun...
So Christ, call her up.
Why? So I can realize she's not so smart. That she's boring. You don't get it. Right now she's perfect, I don't want to ruin that.
And right now you're perfect too. Maybe you don't want to ruin that.
I teach this shit, I didn't say I knew how to do it.
You ever think about gettin' remarried?
My wife's dead.
Hence, the word remarried.
My wife's dead.
Well I think that's a wonderful philosophy, Sean. That way you can go through the rest of your life without having to really know anyone.
Really? How'd the date go? WILL Do you still counsel veterans? I read your book last night.
No, I don't.
Why not?
I gave that up when my wife got sick.
Is that why you didn't write anything else?
I didn't write anything else 'cause nobody, including most of my colleagues bothered to read the first one.
Well, I've read you colleagues. Your book was good, Sean. All those guys were in your platoon?
Yeah.
What happened to that guy from Kentucky?
Lon? He got married. He has a kid. I kind of lost touch with him after Nancy got sick.
Do you ever wonder what your life would be like if you never met your wife?
What? Do I wonder if I'd be better off if I never met my wife?
You don't regret meetin' your wife?
Why? Because of the pain I feel now? I have regrets Will, but I don't regret a singel day I spent with her.
When did you know she was the one?
October 21, 1975. Game six of the World Series. Biggest game in Red Sox history, Me and my friends slept out on the sidewalk all night to get tickets. We were sitting in a bar waiting for the game to start and in walks this girl. What a game that was. Tie game in the bottom of the tenth inning, in steps Carlton Fisk, hit a long fly ball down the left field line. Thirtyfive thousand fans on their feet, screamin' at the ball to stay fair. Fisk is runnin' up the baseline, wavin' at the ball like a madman. It hits the foul pole, home run. Thirtyfive thousand people went crazy. And I wasn't one of them.
Where were you?
I was havin' a drink with my future wife.
You missed Pudge Fisk's homerun to have a drink with a woman you had never met?
That's right.
So wait a minute. The Red Sox haven't won a World Series since nineteen eighteen, you slept out for tickets, games gonna start in twenty minutes, in walks a girl you never seen before, and you give your ticket away?
You should have seen this girl. She lit up the room.
I don't care if Helen of Troy walked into that bar! That's game six of the World Series!
I just slid my ticket across the table and said "sorry fellas, I gotta go see about a girl."
"I gotta go see about a girl"? What did they say?
They could see that I meant it.
You're kiddin' me.
No Will, I'm not kiddin' you. If I had gone to see that game I'd be in here talkin' abouta girl I saw at a bar twenty years ago. And how I always regretted not goin' over there and talkin' to her. I don't regret the eighteen years we were married. I don't regret givin' up couseling for six years when she got sick. I don't regret being by her side for the last two years when things got real bad. And I sure as Hell don't regret missing that damn game.
Would have been nice to catch that game though.
Well hell, I didn't know Pudge was gonna hit the home run.
So you might be working for Uncle Sam.
I don't know.
Gerry says the meeting went well.
I guess.
What did you think?
What did I think?
Do you think you're alone?
What?
Do you have a soulmate?
Define that.
Someone who challenges you in every way. Who takes you places, opens things up for you. A soulmate.
Yeah.
They're all dead.
Not to me, they're not.
But you can't give back to them, Will.
Not without a heater and some serious smelling salts, no...
That's what I'm saying, Will. You'll never have that kind of relationship in a world where you're afraid to take the first step because all you're seeing are the negative things that might happen ten miles down the road.
Oh, what? You're going to take the professor's side on this?
Don't give me you line of shit.
I didn't want the job.
It's not about that job. I'm not saying you should work for the government. But, you could do anything you want. And there are people who work their whole lives layin' brick so their kids have a chance at the kind of opportunity you have. What do you want to do?
I didn't ask for this.
Nobody gets what they ask for, Will. That's a copout.
Why is it a copout? I don't see anythin' wrong with layin' brick, that's somebody's home I'm buildin'. Or fixin' somebody's car, somebody's gonna get to work the next day 'cause of me. There's honor in that.
You're right, Will. Any man who takes a forty minute train ride so those college kids can come in in the morning and their floors will be clean and their trash cans will be empty is an honorable man.
What?
If you won't answer my questions, you're wasting my time.
What?
I been there. I played my hand.
That's right. And you fuckin' lost! And some people would have the sack to lose a big hand like that and still come back and ante up again!
Look at me. What do you want to do?
Well, I'm here. So, is that my problem? I'm afraid of being abandoned? That was easy.
Look, a lot of that stuff goes back a long way. And it's between me and him and it has nothing to do with you.
Do you want to talk about it?
Oh, this is your file. I have to send it back to the Judge with my evaluation.
You're not going to fail me are you?
You want to read it?
No. Have you had any experience with that?
Twenty years of counselling you see a lot of
No, have you had any experience with that?
Yes.
It sure ain't good.
Gotta go with the belt there...
I used to go with the wrench.
The wrench, why?
Cause fuck him, that's why.
Oh, I know.
It's not your fault.
I know.
It's not your fault.
I know.
It's not your fault.
I know.
It's not your fault.
Don't fuck with me.
It's not your fault.
I know.
It's not...
I know, I know...
Which one did you take, Will?
Over at Tritech. One of the jobs Professor Lambeau set me up with. I haven't told him yet, but I talked to my new boss over there and he seemed like a nice guy.
That's what you want?
Yeah, I think so.
Good for you. Congratulations.
Thanks you. So, that's it? We're done?
We're done. You did your time. You're a free man.
I just want you to know, Sean...
You're Welcome, Will.
I'll keep in touch.
I'm gonna travel a little bit, so I don't know where I'll be.
No. Thank you.
Does this violate the patient/doctor relationship?
Only if you grab my ass.
See ya.
Good luck.
That's why I love stockcar racin'. That Dale Ernhart's real good.
Now you know Will, and I know, what you need to be doing. You have a gift.
I could work the pit maybe, but I could never drive like Dale Ernhart
you have a quality something you were born with, that you have no control over and you are, in a sense, hiding that by becoming a janitor. And I'm not saying that's wrong. I'm friends with the janitor that works in my building. He's been to my house for dinner. As a matter of fact I did some free consultation for "Mike"  that's not his real name. That's in my book.
Yeah, I read your book. "Mike" had the same problems as "Chad" the stockbroker.
Yes. The pressures you feel, and again, I am neither labeling nor judging them, are keeping you from fulfilling your potential  you're in a rut. So stop the Tom Foolery  the Shenanigan's, Will.
You're right. I know.
Will, your not getting off that easy.
No, but, I mean you know...I do other things. That no one knows about.
Like what, Will?
I go places, I interact.
What places?
Certain, clubs. Like, Paradise. It's not bad.
I might understand that.
Do you find it hard to hide the fact that you're gay?
What?
C'mon, I read your book. I talked to you. It's just something I know to be true.
That's very presumptuous.
Buddy, two seconds ago you were ready to give me a jump.
Well, I'm sorry to disappoint you, but I'm married and I have two children.
I'm sure you do. You probably got a real nice house, nice car  your book's a best seller.
You're getting defensive, Will.
Look, man. I don't care if you're putting from the rough. There are solid arguments that some of the greatest people in history were gay; Alexander the Great, Caeser, Shakespeare, Oscar Wilde, Napoleon, Gertrude Stein, not to mention Danny Terrio, not many straight men can dance like that.
Who is "Danny Terrio?"
If you wanna hit "Ramrod," take your shot. Take some pride in it. You go to church? So fuckin' what, God loves you. I mean, Christ. A guy as well known as you? By the time you put your disguise on and skulk out of the house Sunday nights you probably look like "Inspector Cluseau."
Well, I can see this is pointless...
You're getting defensive...Henry. And hey, cheiftell the wife, at least. Christ, set her free.
It's walkin' pretty slow at this point.
You guys are fuckin' sick.
I could go for a Whopper.
Let's hit "Kelly's."
Well, she out did herself today...
I don't got a crush on her.
What happened? You got fired, huh?
Yeah, Morgan. I got fired.
How fuckin' retarded do you have to be to get shitcanned from that job? How hard is it to push a fuckin' broom?
There goes that fuckin' Barney right now, with his fuckin' "skiin' trip." We should'a kicked that dude's ass.
Hold up.
Will, I can't believe you brought Skylar here when we're all wrecked. What's she gonna think about us?
Yeah, Morgan. It's a real rarity that we'd be out drinkin'.
So, you finally got a job Morgan?
Had one, now I'm fucked again.
So what do you got, a fuckin' Hyundai engine under there? Can I make it back to my house?
I called Mel Weintraub this morning, to check for availability.
What's the point?
What do you want to do?
There is somebody...
Who is he?
He was my roommate in college.
What should I do?
The boy was here. He came in, sat down and we worked together.
Sean.
Well, it seems we're in the presence of greatness. Professor Gerald Lambeau is a Field's Medal winner. Combunatorial Mathematics. 1986.
Hello.
The Field's Medal is the Nobel Prize for math. But it's only given out every four years.
Good to see you.
Good to see you.
Is there someplace we can talk?
I didn't see you at the reunion.
I've been busy.
You were missed. How long has it been since we've seen each other?
Since Nancy died.
I'm sorry, that damn conference
I got your card.
I've been busy, Gerry. I got a full schedule.
This kid's special, Sean. I've never seen anything like him.
Not much free time, Gerry. LAMBEAU Have you ever heard of a man named Ramanujan?
Yeah.
He was alive over a hundred years ago. He was Indian. Dots, not feathers...
And he mailed it to Hardy
That's right, Sean. He mailed it to a professor at Cambridge who immediately recognized the brilliance in his work and brought Ramanujan to England.
Where he contracted pneumonia and died at a young age
They worked together for the remainder of their lives, producing some of the most exciting math theory ever done. Ramanujan's genius was unparalleled, Sean. This boy is like that. But he's very defensive and I need someone who can get through to him.
Why me?
I need someone with your kind of background.
My kind of background?
You're from the same neighborhood. South Boston.
He's from Southie? How many people did you try before you came to me?
Five.
Not Rick? You didn't send him to Rick?
Just meet with the boy once a week.
Can we do it at my office?
That would be fine.
I got it.
It's on the college.
Any vulnerability he senses, he'll exploit.
I'll be okay.
It's a poker game with this young man. Don't let him see what you've got.
Would you excuse us?
Tom.
You too, Gerry.
What do you mean "he didn't talk?" You sat there for an hour?
No, he just sat there and counted the seconds until the session was over. It was pretty impressive, actually.
Why would he do that?
To show me he doesn't have to talk to me if he doesn't want to.
Oh, what is this? Some kind of staring contest between two kids from the "old neighborhood?"
I won't talk first.
Gerry! Any trouble finding the place?
Not at all.
Timmy this is Gerry, an old friend of mine. We went to college together.
You're here quite a bit, then.
I live right around the corner.
You moved?
I been here a couple years.
Seems like it's going well.
I think so.
Well, have you talked to him at all about his future?
We haven't really gotten into it. LAMBEAU Maybe you should. My phone's been ringing off the hook with job offers.
Jobs doing what?
Cutting edge mathematics. Think tanks. The kind of place where a mind like Will's is given free reign.
That's great, Gerry, that there's interest But I'm not sure he's ready for that.
Sean, I really don't think you understand
What don't I understand?
He married his cousin.
Who?
Einstein. Had two marriages, both trainwrecks. The guy never saw his kids, one of whom, I think, ended up in an asylum
You see, Sean? That's exactly not the point. No one remembers that. They
I do.
Well, you're the only one.
Just...take it easy, Gerry.
Look, I don't know what else I can say. I'm not sitting at home every night, twisting my mustache and hatching a plan to ruin the boy's life. But it's important to start early. I was doing advanced mathematics at eighteen and it still took me twentythree years to do something worthy of a Field's medal.
Maybe he doesn't care about that.
Sean, this is important. And it's above personal rivalry
Now wait a minute, Gerry
No, no you hear me out, Sean. This young man is a true prodigy
Personal rivalry? I'm not getting back at you.
Look, you took one road and I took another. That's fine.
Is it Gerry? 'Cause I don't think it's fine with you. Give him time to figure out what he wants.
That's a wonderful theory, Sean. It worked wonders for you.
This is a disaster! I brought you in here to help me with this boy, not to run him out
Now wait a minute
And confuse him
Gerry
And here I am for the second week in a row with my professional reputation at stake
Hold on!
Ready to falsify documents because you've given him license to walk away from this.
I know what I'm doing and I know why I'm here!
Look Sean, I don't care if you have a rapport with the boy I don't care if you have a few laughs even at my expense! But don't you dare undermine what I'm trying to do here.
"Undermine?"
He has a gift and with that gift comes responsibility. And you don't understand that he's at a fragile point
He is at a fragile point. He's got problems
What problems does he have, Sean, that he is better off as a janitor or in jail or hanging around with
Why do you think he does that, Gerry?
He can handle the work, he can handle the pressure and he's obviously handled you.
Why is he hiding? Why is he a janitor? Why doesn't he trust anybody? Because the first thing that happened to him was that he was abandoned by the people who were supposed to love him the most!
Oh, come on, Sean
And why does he hang out with his friends? Because any one of those kids would come in here and take a bat to your head if he asked them to. It's called loyalty!
Oh, that's nice
And who do you think he's handling? He pushes people away before they have a chance to leave him. And for 20 years he's been alone because of that. And if you try to push him into this, it's going to be the same thing all over again. And I'm not going to let that happen to him!
Now don't do that. Don't you do that! Don't infect him with the idea that it's okay to quit. That it's okay to be a failure, because it's not okay! If you're angry at me for being successful, for being what you could have been
I'm not angry at you
Yes you are, Sean. You resent me. And I'm not going to apologize for any success that I've had.
I don't have any anger at you
Yes you do. You're angry at me for doing what you could have done. Ask yourself if you want Will to feel that way for the rest of his life, to feel like a failure.
That's it. That's why I don't come to the goddamn reunions! Becaue I can't stand the look in your eye when you see me! You think I'm a failure! I know who I am. I'm proud of who I am. And all of you, you think I'm some kind of pity case! You with your sycophant students following you around. And you Goddamn Medal!
Is that what this is about, Sean? The Field's Medal? Do you want me to go home and get it for you? Then will you let the boy
I don't want your trophy and I don't give a shit about it! 'Cause I knew you when!! You and Jack and Tom Sanders. I knew you when you were homesick and pimplyfaced and didn't know what side of the bed to piss on!
That's right! You were smarter than us then and you're smarter than us now! So don't blame me for how your life turned out. It's not my fault.
I don't blame you! It's not about that! It's about the boy! 'Cause he's a good kid! And I won't see this happen to him I won't see you make him feel like a failure too!
He won't be a failure!
If you push him into something, if you ride him
You're wrong, Sean. I'm where I am today because I was pushed. And because I learned to push myself!
He's not you!
Hello, Sean.
Come in.
Sean...
Me too.
So I hear you're taking some time.
Yeah. Summer vacation. Thought I'd travel some. Maybe write a little bit.
Where're you going?
I don't know. India maybe.
Why there?
Never been.
Do you know when you'll be back?
I got this mailer the other day. Class of Sixtyfive is having this event in six months.
I got one of those too.
You should come. I'll buy you a drink.
How about one now?
Sounds good.
Sean, do you have any idea what the odds are against winning the lottery?
I don't know... Gotta be at least four to one.
About thirty million to one.
You're pretty quick with those numbers. How about the odds of me buying the first round?
About thirty million to one.
Good to meet you.
Pleasure to meet you.
Excuse me, Timmy. Could you help us? We're trying to settle a bet.
Uhoh.
Have you heard of Jonas Salk?
Yeah, cured polio.
You've heard of Albert Einstein?
How about Gerald Lambeau? Ever heard of him?
No. LAMBEAU Okay thank you, Timmy.
So who won the bet?
I did.
Excuse me, Professor Lambeau?
Yes.
I'm in your applied theories class. We're all down at the Math and Science building.
It's Saturday.
I know. We just couldn't wait 'till Monday to find out.
Find out what?
Who proved the theorem.
Oh, I'm sorry.
What're you doing?
I'm sorry.
What's your name? Don't you walk away from me. This is people's work, you can't graffiti here.
Hey fuck you.
Well... I'll be speaking to your supervisor.
Hello. Gerald Lambeau, M.I.T.
Fuck do you want?
I've spoken with the judge and he's agreed to release you under my supervision.
Really?
Yes. Under two conditions.
What're those?
That you meet with me twice a week
If I agree to this, I walk right now?
That's right.
I'll do the work. I'm not going to meet with a therapist.
Now, it won't be as bad as it sounds, Will. I've already spoken to one therapist, his name is Henry Lipkin and he's a friend of mine. He's also published four books and is widely considered to be one of the brightest men in his field. I'm sure it'll be better than spending the next six months in jail.
This rectangle is subdivided into rectangles. One edge of an inner rectangle is an integer. Can you prove that one edge of the larger rectangle is an integer?
Of course.
Okay. How?
It's an integer proof.
That would be a monumental waste of time, wouldn't it, Will?
I think so.
I happen to know so.
What's that?
Halfred, halfblack
that?
Halfred, halfblack
That edge!
An integer.
Shall we start the, uh...
Yeah, when do I get my hypnosis? You guys been talkin' for twenty minutes.
Oh, for God's sake, Will.
Oh, come on! You're not pinnin' this one on me. He left, I wanted to talk to him for another twenty minutes. I was havin' fun.
I told you to cooperate with these people.
C'mon, that guy was a fuckin' piece of work.
Get out, Will.
Okay...don't forget to get another therapist for next week.
That's enough.
No.
Will, this is Sean Maguire. Sean, Will Hunting.
This is correct. I see you used Mclullen here
I don't know what it's called.
This can't be right. This is going to be very embarrassing. Have you ever considered
I'm pretty sure it's right.
Can I ask you a favor, can we do this at Sean's from now on? 'Cause I leave work to come here and the fuckin' commute is killin' me
That's fine, but did you ever think
It's right. Take it home with you.
Will, what happened at the Tritech meeting?
I couldn't go 'cause I had a date. So I sent my cheif negotiator.
Will, on your own time, you can do what you like. When I set up a meeting, with my associates, and you don't show up it reflects poorly on me.
Then don't set up any more meetings.
I'll cancel every meeting right now. I'll give you a job myself. I just wanted you to see what was out there.
Maybe I don't want to spend my life sittin' around and explaining shit to people.
The least you can do is show me a little appreciation.
You know how fuckin' easy this is to me? This is a joke! And I'm sorry you can't do this. I really am. 'Cause if you could I wouldn't be forced to watch you fumble around and fuck it up.
Sure, then you'd have more time to sit around and get drunk. Think of how many fights you could have been in by now.
Well, I'm sorry.
So am I. Yes. That's right, Will. Most days I wish I never met you. Because then I could sleep at night. I wouldn't have to walk around with the knowledge that someone like you was out there. And I wouldn't have to watch you throw it all away.
What are you smiling at?
It's a Carlton Fisk baseball card.
I can come back.
No, that's fine, Will. I was just leaving.
Will.
Hey, how you doin'?
You know, you're no longer required to come here.
I was just sayin' goodbye to Sean.
Sam called me. From Tritech. He says you start working for them next week.
Thank you.
I just want you to know...It's been a pleasure.
Bullshit.
This job... Do it if it's what you really want.
I appreciate that.
Yes.
Listen, I'll be nearby so, if you need some help, or you get stuck again, don't be afraid to give me a call.
Thank you, Will. I'll do that.
Excuse me. Is this the buildings and grounds office?
Yeah, can I help you?
I'm trying to find the name of a student who works here.
No students work for me.
Could you just check, because the young man who works in my building
Which one's your building?
Building two.
Well, if something was stolen, I should know about it.
No, no. Nothing like that. I just need his name. TERRY I can't give you his name unless you have a complaint.
Please, I'm a professor here and it's very important.
Well, he didn't show up for work today...
Alexander, I know your theory. The boy is updating, he's strategy stealing...
With a Ramses graph on the binary tree
But what he's doing, he's attaching an edge to the adjacent vertex. He can always failsafe to either side
Maker can. This is not new, Gerry!
No, there's a limit.
The limit is not found! The limit is not found.
Maker builds "K" to the "N." N is three to the K times
But
Okay, you're in your bed, Will. Now how old are you?
Seven.
And what do you see?
Somethin's in my room.
What is it?
It's like a small figure, hoverin' over me. Gettin' closer.
You're in a safe place, Will.
It's touching me.
Where is it touching you?
Down there. And I'm nervous.
You don't have to be nervous, Will.
So why do you think I should work for the National Security Agency?
Well, you'd be working on the cutting edge. You'd be exposed to the kind of technology you couldn't see anywhere else because we've classified it. Super string theory, Chaos Math, Advanced algorithms
Codebreaking.
That's one aspect of what we do.
Come on, that's what you do. You handle more than eighty percent of the intelligence workload. You're seven times the size of the C.I.A.
That's exactly right, Will. So the question as I see it isn't "why should you work for N.S.A." it's "why shouldn't you?"
Why shouldn't I work for the National Security Agency? That's a tough one.
What class did you say that was?
History.
How'd you like that course?
Good, it was all right.
History? Just "history?" It must have been a survey course then.
Hey, come on pal we're in classes all day. That's one thing about Harvard never seizes to amaze me, everybody's talkin' about school all the time.
Hey, I'm the last guy to want to talk about school at the bar. But as long as you're here I want to "seize" the opportunity to ask you a question.
To tell you the truth, I wasn't there much. The class was rather elementary.
Elementary? Oh, I don't doubt that it was. I remember the class, it was just between recess and lunch.
All right, are we gonna have a problem?
There's no problem. I was just hoping you could give me some insight into the evolution of the market economy in the early colonies. My contention is that prior to the Revolutionary War the economic modalities especially of the southern colonies could most aptly be characterized as agrarian pre capitalist and...
I'm not sure
These circumstances are mitigated. Right now. They're mitigated.
Will, our offer starts you at eighty four thousand a year, plus benefits.
Retainer...
You want us to give you cash right now?
Allegedly, what I am saying is your situation will be concurrently improved if I had two hundred sheets in my pocket right now.
I don't think I...Larry?
I have about seventythree...
Will you take a check?
Come now...what do you think I am, a juvinile? You don't got any money on you right now. You think I'm gonna take a check? EXECUTIVE It's fine, John, I can cover the rest.
That isn't funny
and he's like "shit! Motherfucker!" And he looks in his rearview and sees this cat I'm sorry
Jesus.
And all the time he's apologizin' to the cat, goin' "I'm sorry." BANG, "I'm sorry." BANG!
WILL!
And so they go around to the front of his truck...and there's another cat on the grille.
Yah, that is a nice ass.
You could put a pool in that backyard.
Fuck this, let's get something to eat...
What Morgan, you're not gonna go talk to her?
Fuck her.
Morgan, I'm not goin' to "Kelly's Roast Beef" just cause you like the takeout girl. It's fifteen minutes out of our way. MORGAN What else we gonna do we can't spare fifteen minutes?
All right Morgan, fine. I'll tell you why we're not going to "Kelly's." It's because the takeout bitch is a fuckin' idiot. I'm sorry you like her but she's dumb as a post and she has never got our order right, never once.
She's not stupid.
Would you shut the fuck up! I know what you ordered, I was there!
So why don't you give me my sandwhich?
What do you mean "your sandwhich?" I bought it.
Yah, all right...
How much money you got?
I told you, I just got change.
Well give me your fuckin' change and we'll put your fuckin' sandwhich on layaway.
Why you gotta be an asshole Chuckie?
I think you should establish a good line of credit.
Did she get my Double Burger?
NO SHE DIDN'T GET YOUR DOUBLE BURGER!! IT'S ALL FUCKIN' FLYIN' FISH FILET!!
Come on, Will...
Shut up.
No, why didn't you fight him at the park if you wanted to? I'm not goin' now, I'm eatin' my snack. WILL So don't go.
Morgan, Let's go.
I'm serious Chuckie, I ain't goin'.
You got fired from pushing a broom, you little bitch.
Yah, that was different. Management was restructurin'
My uncle can probably get you on my demo team.
What the fuck? I just asked you for a job yesterday!
I told you "no" yesterday!
Some other guy?
Yeah, he was probably drunker than my Uncle, who fuckin' knows? So the cop goes "Stay here" And he goes runnin' down the highway to deal with the other crash. So, my Uncle Marty's standin' on the side of the road for a little while, and he's so fuckin' lit, that he forgets what he's waitin' for. So he goes, "Fuck it." He gets in his car and drives home.
Holy shit.
So in the morning, there's a knock on the door it's the Statie. So my Uncle's like, "Is there a problem?" And the Statie's like "I pulled you over and you took off." And my Uncle's like "I never seen you before in my life, I been home all night with my kids." And Statie's like "Let me get in your garage!" So he's like "All right, fine." He takes around the garage and opens the door and the Statie's cruiser is in my Uncle's garage.
Did your Uncle get arrested?
The fuckin' Trooper was so embarrassed he didn't do anything. The fuckin' guy had been drivin' around in my Uncle's car all night lookin' for the house.
It's a good thing no one's Irish here.
I'm Irish.
Chuck, let's go.
You're walkin' bitch, Will's takin' the car.
What's up guys?
Why don't you beat off at your house?
I don't have a VCR at my house.
Oh my God, I got the most fucked up thing I been meanin' to tell you.
Save it for your mother, funny guy. We heard it before.
Oh, Morgan.
What'd you say about me?
Shut the fuck up.
Hey, asshole. Happy Birthday.
You thought we forgot, didn't you? I know I'm gettin' my licks in.
Me and Bill scraped together the parts, worked on it. Morgan was out panhandlin' every day.
Fuck you, I did the body work. Whose fuckin' router you think sanded out all that bondo?
Guy's been up my ass for two years about a fuckin' job. I had to let him help with the car.
Okay.
So, you ladies ah, go to school here?
What class?
Ah, history I think.
Oh...
Yah, it's not a bad school...
I'm glad you came by, changed my opinion of Harvard people.
See ya' Chuckie. I had fun.
Yeah, not tonight. Not any other night. He knows, once you see that shithole he's gettin' dropped like a bad habit.
I wanted to meet your brothers...
Hi.
How you doin'?
Good.
How'd you know where to find me?
You were the only Sullivan in the phone book.
Oh, right.
This is your house, right?
I guess so.
What? No. This is my mother's house. I don't live with my mother. I just stop by, help out. I'm good like that.
Is this a bad time?
She'll live. If she starts yelling again I might have to run in real quick and beat her with the stick again but...
Okay.
Let's take a walk. EXT. CHUCKIE'S STREET  DAY
See, now this doesn't feel right. When I made the decision to come over here it felt right. I had all these rationalizations... I just don't understand why Will never tells me anything, he won't let me get close to him, he tells me these weird lies
You caught that, huh?
I just wanted to find out what was going on...But now that I'm here it seems strange, doesn't it?
Well, I don't have no trousers on...
I don't care what his family's like or if he doesn't have any brothers, but he doesn't have to lie to me.
I really don't know what to say. Look, I lie to women all the time. That's just my way. Last week Morgan brought these girls down from Roslindale. I told them I was a cosmonaut. They believed me. But Will's not usually like that
Is that true?
Yeah, it is.
Chuckie, what the fuck happened?
Okay. He's driving along and this fuckin' cat jumps in front of his car, and so he hits this cat
Yeah, so he's like "Check the front of my truck, I can prove I hit it 'cause there's probably some blood or something"
or a tail
Stop brushin' me back!
Stop crowdin the plate!
Casey's bouncin' at a bar up Harvard. We should go there sometime.
What are we gonna do up there?
I don't know, we'll fuck up some smart kids. You'd prob'ly fit right in.
Fuck you.
She's sharp as a marble.
We're not goin'. I don't even like "Kelly's."
She didn't do it again did she?
Jesus Christ. Not even close.
Jesus, that's really bad, did anyone even order a Flyin' Fish?
No, and we got four of 'em.
What do we got?
I don't know yet.
Hey, thanks for comin' out.
Yeah, you're all invited over to Morgan's house for a complementary fish sandwhich.
When's the arraignment?
Next week.
What'd you get? You get leniency?
Probation, counselin', few days a week.
You're fuckin' good.
Who'd you call?
No one. I didn't have the number.
I didn't get on Cathy last night.
Why not?
I don't know.
I don't know what the fuck you're doin'. You're givin' us a ride.
What do I look like, Al Cowlins? You want to take my car, drop her off?
I was countin' on it.
Thanks, Chuck.
Don't get too slaphappy, you're takin' me home first. WILL I don't know, Chuck. It's kinda outta the way.
How's the woman?
Gone.
What?
She went to Medical school in California.
Sorry, brother. I don't know what to tell ya. You know all the girls I been with. You been with 'em too, except for Cheryl McGovern which was a big mistake on your part brother...
Oh I'm sure, that's why only one of us has herpes.
Some shows are worth the price of admission, partner.
Suck my crank. Fuckin' sheet metal pussy. So, when are you done with those meetin's?
Week after I'm twentyone.
Are they hookin' you up with a job?
Yeah, sit in a room and do long division for the next fifty years.
Yah, but it's better than this shit. At least you'd make some nice bank.
Yeah, be a fuckin' lab rat.
It's a way outta here.
What do I want a way outta here for? I want to live here the rest of my life. I want to be your next door neighbor. I want to take out kids to little league together up Foley Field.
Look, you're my best friend, so don't take this the wrong way, but in 20 years, if you're livin' next door to me, comin' over watchin' the fuckin' Patriots' games and still workin' construction, I'll fuckin' kill you. And that's not a threat, that's a fact. I'll fuckin' kill you.
Chuckie, what are you talkin'...
Listen, you got somethin' that none of us have.
Why is it always this? I owe it to myself? What if I don't want to?
Fuck you. You owe it to me. Tomorrow I'm gonna wake up and I'll be fifty and I'll still be doin' this. And that's all right 'cause I'm gonna make a run at it. But you, you're sittin' on a winning lottery ticket and you're too much of a pussy to cash it in. And that's bullshit 'cause I'd do anything to have what you got! And so would any of these guys. It'd be a fuckin' insult to us if you're still here in twenty years.
You don't know that.
Let me tell you what I do know. Every day I come by to pick you up, and we go out drinkin' or whatever and we have a few laughs. But you know what the best part of my day is? The ten seconds before I knock on the door 'cause I let myself think I might get there, and you'd be gone. I'd knock on the door and you wouldn't be there. You just left.
You and Morgan throw?
No, I had to talk him down.
Why didn't you yoke him?
Little Morgan's got a lot a scrap, dude. I'd rather fight a big kid, they never fight, everyone's scared of 'em. You know how many people try to whip Morgan's ass every week? Fuckin' kid won't back down.
You're kiddin' me.
Yeah, I figured now that you got your big job over in Cambridge, you needed some way to get over there and I knew I wasn't gonna drive you every day...
Who's she talking to?
That fuckin' guinea, Will knows him.
Yah, restructurin' the amount of retards they had workin' for them.
Fuck you, you fat fuck.
Least I work for a livin'. Why'd you get fired?
Submit, bitch! Submit! Submit!
Suck my cock!
Oh, Morgan!
Keep fuckin' with me. Watch what happens.
All right, then.
Watch what happens.
I've been shit faced for like two weeks.
Oh great, tell her that! Now she really thinks we're problem drinkers!
You guys know my cousin Mikey Sullivan?
Yeah.
Well you know how he loves animals right? Anyway, last week he's drivin' home...
What? Come on!
I'm sorry, 'cause you know Mikey, the fuckin guy loves animals, and this is the last person you'd want this to happen to.
Two weeks? That's nothin'. My Uncle Marty? Will knows him. That guy fuckin' drinks like you've never seen! One night he was drivin' back to his house on I93 Statie pulls him over.
Oh shit.
Guy's tryin' to walk the linebut he can't even fuckin' stand up, and so my uncle's gonna spend a night in jail. Just then there's this fuckin' BOOM like fifty yards down the road. Some guy's car hit a tree.
No way! You're kiddin'!
No, he was so hammered that he drove the police cruiser home. Fuckin' lights and everything!
If you knew those fucking kids. They're nuts. Especially that Tommy. What am I going to do with them?
But I'm worried. I'm hearing all kinds of things. Paulie. You know me all my life. I've always done the right thing.
You think that matters? You think they give a shit about anything? The little bastards.
But it isn't right, Paulie. That Tommy, he's making trouble for me all over town. I can't go here. I can't go there.
You? You think you're the only one? I've talked to them a million times, but they don't listen.
But, Paulie, please.
Someday they'll get what's coming to them. That's the only way they'll stop.
Paulie, I swear, I'm afraid. The guy's nuts. What do I have to do? Whatever I gotta do, I'll do.
What can I do? If I could do something, don't you think I would?
You want a partner?
Please?
We'll pack up everything and send it to you.
I got dry cleaning.
We'll pick it up.
Don't worry about the schools. We'll take care of the schools.
I don't want them left back.
They won't be left back. They'll stay in their grade.
That's important.
He didn't call?
He's with his friends.
What kind of person doesn't call?
He's a grown man. Be doesn't have to call every five minutes.
If he was so grown up he'd get you two an apartment.
Don't bring that up. You're the one who wanted us here.
Look. He's got the whole house in an uproar.
He's got your father upset. Good thing he doesn't have to go to work in the morning. Is this what he deserves?
Ma! Please! You're driving me crazy.
Driving you crazy? Don't get me started. You're here a month and sometimes I know he doesn't come home at all. What kind of people are these?
Ma! Stop! What do you want me to do?
Do? What can you do? What did you expect? He wasn't Jewish. Did you know bow they live? Your father would never stay out this late without calling. In thirty years he never stayed out all night.
Stayed out? Daddy never went out at all.
How is he? Okay? Are they busting his chops?
He's okay. They sobered him up.
Did he say what they're asking him about?
Jimmy. I don't know. I got so much else on my mind. I got the kids. We got no money.
I gotta talk to him as soon as I can.
He says he's too hot. He doesn't even know I came here today. It's like he's crazy. Jimmy.
I know. I know. But it'll be okay. Don't worry. I got some money for you. It's down the block.
The third store down.
Jimmy just stood there on the sidewalk. It felt funny. I started walking down the block, but I noticed the stores were empty.
Stay there.
Don't start. I told you to clean up. Look at this place. It's a pigpen. Look around here. Why do you think I bought you the dishwasher? Look. Look at this. There's enough powder around here to put us all away.
I hate to do dishes.
Hey, come on. I gotta meet somebody.
So do I.
Are you okay? What happened?
Nothing. I dropped the soap. That's all.
I don't need this... You said tonight and now it's not tonight...
It's okay. I'll make it up. I promise. Just hurry it up a little. Okay?
Okay?
Come on, relax. He's drunk. He's been locked up for six years.
I don't give a shit. That guy's got no right.
Tommy. He. doesn't mean anything. Forget about it.
He's insulting me. Rat bastard. He's never been any fuckin' good.
Tommy. Come on. Relax.
Keep him here. I'm going for a bag.
Batts's made. His whole crew is going to be looking for him. This is fucking bad.
There's a shovel at my mother's.
You gotta help me. Okay? This girl I told you about? Diana? She's from the Five Towns. She's Jewish. She won't go out with me alone. Can you believe this shit? She's fucking prejudiced, but she's built. She's never been out with an Italian before. She says she'll only go out on a double date with her girlfriend. You believe this shit? But you gotta see her. I mean, she's beautiful.
Will you get the fuck out of here.
Is it my fault she won't go out without her girlfriend? For Chrissake. Come on. You don't even have to stay. Jeesuz! What's the big deal?
Tommy ...
Tommy, don't fuck around. Put the gun away. Tommy!
No, no. It's okay.
Tommy, come on. Put the gun away.
No. It's okay. Just watch this. Watch it.
Where'd you find such creeps?
They're okay and it's worth it. Ain't it?
You ready?
Yeah.
Tell Michael not to 1et the sauce stick.
You know what to do?
Yeah, yeah.
Now this is important. Make sure you leave the house when you make the call. You understand? Do you hear me? It's important. Call from an outside phone. I mean it.
Jesus! You must think I'm dumb. What are you bugging me for? I know what to do!
Just make sure you do it. You know what I mean?
I gotta go home.
What for? I got a pound of stuff in my jacket I've been carrying around all day. We gotta start taping it to your leg.
I gotta go home and get my hat.
Do you realize what we're involved in here now?
I don't care. I need my hat. I won't go without it.
What could I do? If she insisted, I had to drive her home for her goddamn hat. I threw the package in the kitchen and went to take her hone.
What happened to you?
I can't make any more deliveries.
Whadda you mean, you can't make any more deliveries? You're going to fuck up everything?
My father got a letter from the school. He said the next time he'll kill me.
It was the first time I had ever seen anyone shot.
You're some fucking jerk.
I You wasted eight fucking aprons on that guy. :
I remember feeling bad about the guy. But I remember feeling that maybe Tuddy was right. I knew Paulie didn't want anybody dying in the building.
I didn't agree to three points over the vig. What am I nuts? I didn't need it that much.
What are you gonna do? Fight with him? He wants his money.
It's a fait accompli?
Done.
And Jimmy's in it, right?
Will you stop.
I want to talk to Jimmy.
He heard.
But I got two hundred and fifty coming. It's my share. Jimmy owes me.
Marty, please. Let me talk to him.
What are we going to do with him? We can't dump him in the street.
Bring the car round back. I know a place Upstate they'll never find him.
Keep 'em coming.
Jimmy was one of the most feared gays in the city. He was first locked up at eleven and was doing hits for mob bosses when he was sixteen. Hits never bothered him. It was business. But what he really loved to do was steal. I mean, he actually enjoyed it. Jimmy was the kind of guy who rooted for the bad guys in the movies. He was one of the city's biggest hijackers. Clothes. Razor blades. Booze. Cigarettes. Shrimp and lobsters. Shrimp and lobsters were the best. They went fast.
You got money for your bullshit television, don't you? I gotta watch you swimming back and forth on TV all night long, don't I? You got money for that, but you don't have my money?
Jimmy. He'll be okay. He's good for it. Relax.
We got a problem, that thing we took care of upstate?
Paulie was just talking about him.
Well, we gotta dig him up again.
What?
The guy just sold the property. They're gonna build condominiums and I don't want anybody digging up the little bastard.
It's been six months.
It's still better than letting somebody find him.
If Paulie finds out, we got problems.
Fuck Paulie. If Batts' crew finds we whacked him, we got real problems.
we're gonna feed the bastard to the lions.
What lions? I'm not going near any lions.
We only have to shove'em over the moat.
For Christmas. Your share. It's just a taste.
Jimmy.
We did it. We did it.
Give'm a drink.
I gotta talk to you.
Have a drink first.
Oh yeah? Anything you say.
What's going on? What happened to Stacks? Is everything okay?
Don't worry about it.
There are cops all over the place.
So what? Where are they gonna go?
Paulie's gonna make him?
Who else? Paulie got the okay. This little guinea fuck. Someday he's gonna be a boss. Can you believe someday we'll work for him.
What'll I tell Fran?
Who gives a fuck? Tall her he ran away with a broad. What do you care about her.
Watch this.
Come on, don't fuck around, will ya?
I do it all the time. Bust their fucking balls.
Jimmy, come on. Fuck 'em. Don't give them the satisfaction.
You want the melon?
Nah.
I better call again.
Jimmy and I could never be made, because we bad Irish blood. It didn't even matter that my mother was Sicilian. To become a member of a crew, you've got to be one hundred percent Italian So that they can trace all your relatives back to the old country.
What fucking good are these things? They don't fit. What do I need this for? I'm not paying for this shit.
Right away I knew he didn't want them. I knew I was going to get stuck for the money. I only bought the damn guns because he wanted them. And now, he didn't want them. I didn't say a thing. Jimmy was so pissed he didn't even say goodbye.
I can't eat, just get me some coffee.
He was jumpy. He hadn't touched a thing. In the old days, Jimmy would have ordered doubles and eaten it all. On the surface, of course, everything was supposed to be fine. We were supposed to be discussing my case, just like we always would, but I had a feeling Jimmy was trying to sense whether I was going to rat him out to save my neck.
I think you got a good shot at beating the case.
How?
It's that rat bastard from Pittsburgh. He ratted you all out. He's been a rat since he got busted in Pittsburgh.
Yeah.
He's hiding, thE son of a bitch, in Florida.
Yeah.
I want you and Anthony to go down there and take care of that bastard. Without him, they've got no case.
I had a meeting with Tuddy around eleven o'clock and here I am a backup guy.
Have more coffee. It'll wake you up.
I couldn't wait to get away. I was ordering the dessert when they were eating dinner. When they were having coffee, I was asking for a check.
I didn't know, I swear. I thought it was next week.
Liar!
Take it easy. We can talk about it.
She's screaming on the street and I mean loud, but she looked good. She had these violet eyes. I remember she's screaming, but mostly I'm looking at her eyes. They were just like Elizabeth Taylor's. That's what everybody said.
Talk? To you? After what you did!
I thought you were going to stand me up. You looked bored. You didn't say anything. What did you expect. Tommy was all over me. Right?
What're you doing? What about the car?
He watches it for me. It's better than waiting at a garage.
What do you do?
I'm in construction.
They don't feel like you're in construction.
Go inside. I'll be right there.
What are you gonna do?
Get inside!
My bag. My bag.
What bag?
The bag with the envelopes.
Oh that. Don't worry about that. Nobody's gonna steal it.
I Don't know. I don't know if I could live that way. What if, God forbid, you go to prison. Mickey said Jeannie's husband 
Are you nuts? Jeannie's husband went to the can just to get away from her, she's such a pain in the ass. Let me tell you. Nobody goes to jail unless they want to, unless they make themselves get caught. They do stuff with the wrong people. They don't have things organized. You know who goes to jail? Nigger stickup men. That's who. And they only get caught because they fall asleep in the getaway car.
I'm gonna need some money.
How much?
I don't care. Something's going on.
That again.
Henry. Wake up.
What's the matter with you? You're crazy.
It's all bullshit. I swear. It's nothing. Whatever you want, we'll do.
The truth was, that no matter how bad I felt, I was still very attracted to him. Why should I give him up to someone else? Why should she win?
Son of a bitch.
I thought you were supposed to turn yourself in at ten o'clock this morning?
I'm just having my last few drinks.
I've been all over town. I got a call from the bondman. He says they're going to rescind your bail if you don't show up and sign in right now. They're going to take away the house.
Shit.
You son of a bitch. She's been here.
What are you talking about?
Don't lie to me. I saw her name in the register.
Jezuz Christ!
You want her to visit you? Good! Let her stay up all night crying and writing letters to the parole board.
What am I doing? I'm in here! I'm in jail. I can't stop people from coming to see me.
Stop! Stop!
Let her carry this shit inside.
Nobody's helping me. Tommy got four years. Marty and Fran are broke. I asked your friend Remo for the money he owed you, and you know what he told me?
It'll be okay.
He told me to take the kids to the police station and make the cops put me on welfare.
We've got to help each other.
Even Paulie, since he got out, I hardly see him.
It's only you and me. That's what happens when you go away. We're on our own. Forget everybody. Forget Paulie. As long as he's on parole he doesn't want anybody doing anything.
I can't do it anymore.
Yes, you can. I've got it set up. We'll be fine. All I need is for you to keep bringing the stuff. I've got a guy in here from Pittsburgh who'll move it for me. Believe me, in a month we'll be fine. We won't need anybody.
I'm afraid. I'm afraid if Paulie finds out.
Don't worry about Paulie. Is he helping you? Is he putting food on the table? We've got to help ourselves. We just have to be careful while we do it.
I don't want to hear about her anymore.
Never.
Get packed. We're getting out of here.
With what?
Don't worry with what. You just start looking for a new place. I'm going to Pittsburgh in the morning. The guys from Pittsburgh they owe me fifteen grand from our little partnership and it's only the beginning.
But you've got to see your parole officer in the afternoon and I promised we'd take Judy to F.A.O. Schwarz.
Don't worry about it. You listening to me? Now, come on. We gotta go see Paulie.
I had everybody working. Even our old babysitter.
She's beautiful. Look at her. Henry, look at her.
Hello! Hello! Have a good flight?
Jimmy's calling every day. It's urgent.
What did he say, exactly?
At least Jimmy and Mickey want to help. I talk to Mickey every day. That's more than I can say for the rest.
Paul will calm down. You'll see.
I told Jimmy the cops took our cars and froze our bank accounts and he offered to get me some money. Be wants to know what's happening. You gotta meet him.
Fuck Jimmy and the money. Didn't I tell you I gotta get out of here first. I gotta straighten every thing out with Paulie or I'm dead.
Then you're safer in here.
Safe? Here? They'll kill me here. They're all afraid I'm gonna rat them out. People are already looking to walk away from me. I'm dead in here. You gotta get me out.
Who's gonna do that?
Just get me out.
So now my plan was to stay alive long enough to sell off the dope that the cops never found and disappear for a while until I got things straightened out.
Where's the stuff?
What are you talking about?
You know. The stuff I left.
I flushed it down the toilet.
You what?
What did you want me to do with it? They were all over the house.
Are you fucking nuts? That was forty, fifty thousand. I need it. I was depending on that money.
They had a warrant. They went through everything. They would have found it. I swear.
Shit You know they would have never found it. Why did you do it? Why did you do it? My God, why did you have to do it?
Oh no! No! Noooo!
What happened? You okay?
I got seared.
Okay. Don't worry about it. It's okay.
I got scared.
What about the schools?
Yeah. What about the kids' school?
Tell him. It's okay.
What?
What did you hear about that thing?
What thing? The Brooklyn thing?
No. No. The guy from downtown.
The guy from near where Christie used to live?
No. The other one. The one who disappeared up the block from Christie. The one they made a beef on.
Oh I Him.
I don't want any more of that Shit.
Wha? Me?
Just stay away from the garbage. Yon know what I mean.
Me? Why would I get into that shit?
I know what you did inside. You did what you had to do. I'm not talking about that. I'm talking from now on, outside. I'm talking right here.
Why would I get into that?
I'm not going to get fucked like Gribbs. He's seventy years old and the fucking guy is going to die in prison. I don't need that. I don't care who it is. I'm warning everybody. Gribbs got twenty years just because he said hello to some fuck who was sneaking around selling junk behind his back. That's not going to happen to me. You understand?
Paulie. Why would I? I swear.
You're only home early because we got you a job, right? And I don't need any heat. You understand?
Nods.
And, if you hear about anybody else fucking around with that shit, you tell me.
Nods again.
Anybody! You understand?
I understand.
I warned you a million times.
I've been all fucked up since I got out.
You think I didn't know what you were doing?
It was easy money. I did it in the can. Shit! I learned the junk business in the can, Paulie.
Right in my face. You looked in my face and you lied.
But, Paulie, I'm sorry. Believe me. I was fucking crazy. But I'm okay now. I can be trusted. I'm clean now. On my children. Believe me! Two weeks cold turkey waiting for bail got my head together...
You thought I was some fucking jerk?
Paulie, I couldn't come to you. I didn't want to put you in this shit. I was ashamed to come to you. I knew I was wrong.
Paulie. You're all I got. I need help.
You treated me like shit.
Here. Take it. Now I gotta turn my back on you.
Thirtytwo hundred bucks. That's what he gave me. Thirtytwo hundred bucks for a lifetime. It wouldn't have paid for the coffin.
Hey, look at him. Tommy. You grew up.
Billy, how are you?
Son of a bitch. Get over here.
Hey, Billy. Watch the suit.
Listen to him. "Watch the suit," he says. A little pisser I've known all my life. Hey, Tommy, don't go get too big.
Don't go busting my balls. Okay?
Busting his balls? If I was busting your balls, I'd send you home for your shine box.
You remember Tommy's shines? The kid was great. He made mirrors.
No more shines, Billy.
Come ooonnn. Tommeeee. We're only kidding. You can't take a joke? Come ooonn.
You think I don't know? You think I like to keep this inside? But I gotta, or he'll kill the miserable bastard and he'll be there for life. It's disgusting what you have to put up with.
Look at Jeannie's kid.
What? What happened?
The oldest one. He was in an argument. A lousy tendollar card game. The kid pulls out a gun. It goes off. The kid gets killed. The grandmother hears it and finds out he's been arrested. She has a heart attack. She drops dead right on the spot. Now Jeannie's got a husband and son in jail and a mother in the funeral parlor.
But he was always a bad kid, that one.
No. Come on. It was the younger one that was the bad one.
What do you want, shithead?
Why you gotta front me like that? I'm talking to Kip 
Why don't you leave him alone?
I known Kip longing than you, man ...
Oooh, ain't you the lucky duck 
What are you doing here, assface?
Checkin' it out
Which way's out, man  ?
Shit all looks the same here 
You know what you got here?
Not really 
There's excessive resistance in the cranking circuit ... You know what you gotta do  ?
Not really 
You have any other answers besides "not really"?
Not 
Right. You want to test the voltage drop ... Use the voltmeter ... Remove the primary lead from the ignitioncoil and crank her ... See what you got ... You understand  ?
Uh ... Randall  ?
Excuse me 
Hey, Memphis. Remember me? Toby Walker. I live next door ...
Sure. Hey, Toby. You grew up
Yeah, I'm cool ...
How old are you now, Toby?
Sixteen. But my birthday's in seven months ...
This Eleanor's been living at the International Towers for 3 years now.
Who's "Eleanor?"
The 167 Mustang Shelby Mustang GT500.
Why do you call it "Eleanor?"
All the vehicles get code names. Female names. You say "Eleanor lives at such and such... " and no one listening on the waves is the wiser ...
She's not. Carroll Shelby tweaked the Mustang's HighPerformance 289 engine and got it legally rated for the street at 450 horsepower ... But its actual output is closer to 600 ...
So she flies 
She soars 
I logged outside the G.R.A.B. site, right? Then I monitored their incoming outside data requests, right? Then I got these ISDN numbers, right? Then I tracked them back, right? Then I took the one I could jackup the easiest, right? Then I called back see, they think I'm an insurance company  that's where it looks like I'm coming from  and they're sharing stats with this insurance company, right? So now they're sharing it with me, right? They think I'm looking for stats for an actuarial conference on autotheft. So they let me in, right? Give me all these numbers. But then I don't leave, right? I'm in. I've got the key. Now I just go anywhere I want.
So what's in there  ?
I can tell you who's gonna be on duty tonight. I can tell you how much gas they're using monthly. I can tell you how they used to spend that annoying halfhour between "FRIENDS" and "SEINFELD"...
What about me?
You'll be at the docks ... Keeping Otto abreast of our progress ...
How come ... ?
Because you should be home with Nintendo, listening to The Spice Girls, little man ...
Come on. Kip, talk to the guy
Okay. All our ladies should be home now, tucked in bed. Let's keep chilly. Think Slow. Any questions?
You sure I can't go with ya?
You're gonna be okay, Toby... You are ... We'll getcha fixed up...
No ... No... No ... Tell me what's gonna happen? Kip? Tell me. What's gonna happen?
Am I dying? Are all the angels of my life returning to bid a final farewell? And have my angels completely lost their fashion sense  ?
Hello, Otto ...
You remember Junie?
Of course. Hi, Junie 
Whatever do you mean?
The chopshop... Where are the stripped cars? The rolledback odometers? The part bins?
What happened? Oldage happened. I tired of killing them. I woke up one morning and thought I am no longer a destroyer. I am a means of resurrection. Now. We restore. We revive. There are so few things in this life, we can prevent from decay. Most must die. These don't have to...
I heard rumors you were back. About Kip ...
He's gotten involved 
You think it can be done?
Are you considering a comeback tour?
Tell me...
It can be done. Take two days to shop; one to prep. I'll offer up my bible for a small fee. You also have to hope Kip's jerkcircus didn't undo Castlebeck's linkage so much so that he's setting up surveillance teams on every city block. And then get yourself a crew...
The hard part ...
"A people is a detour of nature to get 6 or 7 great men  Yes, and then to get around them..." Nietzsche said that.
Is he still working here ?
The old crew. Go find them. I can't help you with that. Since I've cleaned up the act a bit, they no longer come around... A pity how legitimacy makes you unpopular 
I Just don't know how happy they'll be to see me
I remember I had a 1964 Buick Opal. worst car ever built. Value job. Everything broke and Ifixed it. A coma car  built to German specs. Plastic gas line. 3 speedometer head. On a quiet night, you could hear it rusting in the garage. But when that car was gone, I missed it. If it came driving back in here right now, there'd be tears and laughter ...
And the moral of that story is  ?
Go to them. They'll be happy to see you ... Ahhh...
Some crew you got ...
If we put out the word. That we're crewingup, for a onetimeonly job... What do you think that'll yield?
You need him...
No we don't 
I appreciate your dilemma, Memphis. But how are two washedup thieves and an old man supposed to boost 50 cars in three days...
His criminal career has officially come to a close ...
The conundrum still applies, of course. The purpose of the endeavor is to rescue baby brother from imminent death and/or a life of crime. However. This cannot be successfully carried out without baby brother's considerable resources, shabby though they may be.
Okay, then... Otto?
In order to succeed, you're going to have to go oldschool. one night boost. Put all your nuts in one basket. And...
Anyone? The significance of "Robin 1" on Magnum's license plate? Memphis?
Robin was Robin Masters. He owned the estate they lived on ...
Ten points for our fearless leader ... Sway, how 'bout giving us the honor of the Bill Bixby trifecta  ?
Split it up. Any word on Donny?
He's gonna be okay. Could do a bit.
What happened to Sway?
She left...
Dinosaurs. All of us. The Ice Age is now...
I'll see you soon 
See you're still stealing the sailors from the sea 
What are you doing here?
What's with the look?
The hip, cool, sexy thing was getting old...
You look like you lost your sheep ...
You still wrenching at Bacchiochi's?
Hell, yeah. I'm not getting rich in here ...
Buy you a drink?
Nope. I got a coffee. And a boyfriend.
"Mitch?"
Mitch.
So I was replaced by Mitch?
No. You were replaced by Alex. Who was replaced by Kevin. Who was replaced by Vince. Who was replaced by Mitch...
On account of Mitch?
On account of me.
I've taken the spear for a lot of people, Sway. Including you. Can't we improvise a little here ... ?
No can do. Life goes on, pointfive ... You left me, remember?
I left town. I didn't leave you.
A distinction worth noting ...
And here I am...
Yes. But I got a feeling it's not on account of any longingformytouch on your part 
Kip's in trouble
What kind of trouble  ?
Kip took a job. Fifty ladies in two weeks. Only the two weeks have turned into four days. And not a single lady has been snared.
And you got some Italians  ?
Six or seven...
I'm not doing it anymore. Haven't for a while. I've carved out something for myself. It's pathetic, but it's mine ...
I understand 
What the hell are you doing  ?
If you change your mind. We're at Otto's. It's 50 ladies in 24 hours. For The Carpenter. 200 K and Kip's life on the felt. So long now ...
That's Mirror Man ... And that's Freb ... And Tumbler ... And Toby ... Fellas, this is Sara Wayland... They call her "Sway."
Hey 
Hey.
What's wrong with her  ?
The right side of the engine is running richer than the left. And the scope isn't showing shit... I dunno...
Right. Great car. One of a kind. I was looking forward to that boost myself
She was the only "Annie" you could find?
They only made a handful. We're lucky there's even one living in the area...
Yeah, well ... She lives with District Court Judge Seymour Croft ...
She's trouble 
I put the boys on it. They're clever that way...
I go with you 
That what you want?
That's what I want ...
Okay.
You mentioned that in your letters
I always thought you'd follow me up.
We were good when you bailed, weren't we?
Very good...
Cos there were those dark days, when I figured  my God, how easy it was for him to just give it up; to make the deal; take the rot for the whole crew ... And give me up in the process.
No way ...
No ... ?
No ...
Don't go getting all warm and fuzzy on me, Randall. I'm the jane that was left, and you're the jim that did the leaving. So save the sanctimonious shit for someone who believes. The only reason I ride with you, is cause I don't want to spend the whole night with any of them other creeps!
Oh. Okay. Right.
Ready  ?
Oh, yeah.
No whistles, but a Club You bring a hack  ?
No. Open her ...
What the hell's that  ?
A little trick I picked up at the Car Thief Retirement Home ...
Gosh, no. Lipstick? What next? Mascara, blush, floralprint dresses?
Deodorant.
So, you seeing anybody?
No. I had a girl. She was great. The problem is: great girls come along once every ten years. So I gotta wait another three years before I can even bother to look...
She was so great, why'd you leave her?
Her parole officer strongly recommended it ...
C'mon, gang. Let's focus. Sway, can you prep 'em  ?
I think so... They're just... So ...
I know. But let's prep 'em. We could stay here all night... That wouldn't be good 
Arright ... Enough ... I can't have you bellying up to my heart again, man, f you can't help falling off the stool. But he puts his mouth to her ears ...
Shhh... Car thieves are your weakness.
Stop. What about Maserati Boy?
I take out my slimjim...
Oh, God...
Slip it in ...
You're going highcheese, dude 
Unlock your button ...
"Unlock my button" ... ?
The alarms go off ...
Woowoowooooo!
I pop your hood; find your siren wires
They're factory alarms ... Easy to get around... For a man with... Skills...
I do ... I cut "em...
Cut 'em...
Now... I'm in ...
Of course you are. You're a professional...
I ratchet your ignition mechanism ...
I bet you say that to all the girls...
With a twist of my wrist ... You're turned over ...
Wrong preposition...
Hear you roar ...
What about The Club ... ?
Let me worry about The Club ...
No worries ...
I've got you floored... We're off ... Take the curb... Man, can you corner... Know not to get on it ... Momentum shift ... Don't get on those brakes too hard ... Get her up on her tires. Up on her toes. Up ... Up... Up.
You're still quite the boost, Randall Raines ... Except now I've been chopped, and my parts are in a Honda Prelude being driven to church in South America by some Bolivian consulate's wife ...
And Tracy's on the move ...
Donny got shot ... A jacker ...
How is he  ?
They got him to the hospital. He's stable ...
Where to  ?
Kip's not clear yet. We got one more to go 
You okay  ?
Yeah ... You  ?
What are you doing... ?
Seeing if you wanted to go for a ride?
I can't. I got a back load of repairs and one of the mechanics called in sick and I haven't slept and Where to  ?
I dunno. I know a place.
This time it's for real?
Oh, yeah. For real, pointfive.
What  ?
Nothing. Just that if I was less secure, I might think you were more into Eleanor than you are me...
She does have one thing you don't.
What's that?
Bench seats.
He give you an advance  ?
Hell, yeah. Ten larger man
You know of one  ?
Yeah. He's knows of one all right.
Take it back, Freb 
Hey, now, Memphis... C'mon, man 
Okay. We're all here. Today's Wednesday. DDay is Friday night ... That gives us two days to prep ... We're going to find the ladies on our list, find out where they live, when they're home; that they're properly insured ... Let's get into the vans 
Where we going  ?
We're going shopping  !
Jim Rockford. ROCKFORD FILES.
For real?
How's it going?
It's going fine. The Quiet Riot and me are swapping trade secrets ...
Call 911 
Call 'em here  ?
DO IT! NOW  !
Thirteen down ... Thirtyseven to go ...
No problem 
But don't worry, man. Things are all sweetness and light here...
Things are all leafy and suburban ...
Pop the trunk, Tumbler.
What for  ?
I gotta get my tool 
Now what  ?
Now, we go 
Shit ...
Run it...
What are we gonna do  ?
Hospital.
We can't do that, dude 
Hey, Kip ...
Hello, Memphis 
It's good to see ya, man. You changed your look 
You, too
Kip  ?
Yeah ...
You all right  ?
I think so. There's things I can't feel right now. Like my feet. But ... You think you can get me outta this, Memphis? I'd appreciate it 
Just holdon there 
This has nothing to do with any of that 
Oh. You maybe have more than one enemy who owns a carcrusher  ?
All my enemies own car crushers. It's like a prerequisite ... Owwww...
Easy ... Take it easy ... We're almost there...
You okay  ?
Totally. I'm fine. You want a beer, man  ?
Sure 
You sure you're okay  ?
Yeah, man. Where is your beer?
Cool. So you're living up North?
Yeah 
I heard you were pumping gas 
Something like that 
You're kind of cultivating a new look.
Yeah 
Nah. It's a scratch.
Okay 
Hey, you want something to eat ?
What do you got ... ?
There's certainly a time and a place for a mellow olive 
Yeah, yeah. That's what I'm thinking 
So what are you gonna do?
About what?
"About what?"
About Calitri? No worries, man. I'll call him. He's a reasonable dude ...
I can see that 
What happened to you?
What?
You just got crushed in a car. You're bleeding all over your self. And you sit there  eating olives and talking basketball, as if, at this very moment, people weren't plotting your demise ...
C'mon, man... My "demise..." Overreaction
"Over" You know  I can maybe understand, since I been gone, you taking up this dumbass life of crime, and for that I can partly blame myself. But what is baffling to me, is how, since I been gone, you've become a complete and total moron
Hey, now 
He's gonna kill you  !
I can handle it 
You can handle it?
I can handle it 
You can handle it?
I can handle it 
You?
Me.
You?
Me...
You don't think so, huh?
Not really ... But you know... Maybe I'm wrong ...
What are you doing here?
Otto called 
We do this. Then. You're finished. Then. You're clean
I like how you wallop back in here  after four years  and can still get all Clifford Huxtable on my shit ...
You hear me?
I hear ya. Get me outta this. I'll move to the country. Open a fruit stand...
You spread it out ... you move around... So's they can't touch you... so's they don't know... Shadow games and shit ...
"Shadow games?"
Shadow games ...
You spread it out, by the 2nd night, the heat are onto you. Know something's up. With a onenight boost, by the time all the cars are reported stolen, your ship's set sail.
Reads the infrared. Then kills it. Little something the R & D department came up with ...
How long were you gonna let me try and stop it...?
After a while, it became a little pathetic ... Figured I'd put you out of your misery ...
Thankyou ...
De nada ...
Ain't we goodtiming here ... ?
The family that steals together, deals together...
Dad'd be proud 
Maybe not. But Dad was from another era...
What era was that  ?
The era when crime didn't pay 
As opposed to now, Kid Car Crusher?
Price of doing business...
What about just getting a job, 9 to 5, five days a week, that whole mystery achievement  ?
It's for assholes. The Legal Buck blows, Memphis. You know that. Doing this, we make mad bank, my boys are down, the girlies come around and the boosts are a breeze. Yeah, sure, you're gonna get jackedup every now and then  but ain't that a small price to pay for never, neverever, having to say "paper or plastic?"
Having fun, Kip?
Hell, yeah... It's a beautiful business ... I mean, no, man, it's hard, it's scary, it sucks ...
You okay  ?
I'm cool.
Too early to tell. Nervous?
Nah.
That's strange. I'm nervous. Donny's nervous. Everyone's nervous. But not you...
I dunno. Whatever will be will be...
That's a good attitude, Kip. For everything but stealing cars ...
What did I tell you? What? What did I tell you?
I don't know. What  ?
Come here 
What?
Come here 
What?
Come here 
I've missed you, man ...
I know. I've missed you, too
Toby...
I know ...
Toby...
What are you doing here?
I saw her get smashedup on the TV. Knew there was no way he was gonna accept her ...
Where'd you find this one?
Ya gotta keep tabs on your "Eleanors", Memphis. Cos you never know when you're gonna need one 
You boost her  ?
Hell, yeah. She's not my unicorn.
Move over ...
You okay  ?
I dunno ... I keep thinking about him.
You remember where you got this Eleanor  ?
Sure, man 
She's for sale. They're asking forty thousand. Give 'em sixty ...
You want me to buy her?
Shocking, huh? We're clear now. It's done. I've never actually paid for a car. I want to see what it feels like
Where you off to  ?
Thought I'd go for a ride 
Hey, Kip, what's up?
What do you say, Toby?,
I'm cool 
You goin' home?
Yeah... You want a ride...
Sure 
How'd you get here? Your Moms give you ride  ?
Hell, no. I boosted a 'Vette.
You boosted a 'Vette? Then where is it?
I dunno. It was right here. Someone musta' boosted it back...
Damn crooks is everywhere 
It looks just like a regular Mustang 
Don't go there, Toby 
Any more ...
I dunno ...
No...
What am I supposed to do?
Jesus, Kip ... I'm shot, man ...
Just hold on... Hold on ...
Any more, O  ?
You guys are through...
Whatcha got left ... ?
"Carol." A 198 Mercedes ... She lives in the suburbs ...
We'll take it...
It's earmarked for Mirror Man and The Sphinx...
We'll take it.
D.W.P. Thanks for holding. How can I help you?
I got a message. I live at 1443 Locklin.
Yes. can you hold, sir  ?
NO! No, I can't! I'm a busy man.
okay, sir. Let me just get theorder. Yes. We'll be doing some work out your way. We've got a power leak. And it's unsafe. We're moving residences to the... Marriott Long Beach ... Just for the night ...
Oh, for God's sake
I know, sir ...
Breakfast brunch  ?
Yes, sir 
Okay, then ... I just go to the Marriott and I'm set ...
You've been prebooked...
You look good...
You, too, Ma...
What are you doing back?
How's Kip?
Have you seen him?
No.
oh.
Atley Jackson came to see me ...
Atley Jackson. How is that one? How's the leg... ?
Why didn't you tell me?
I couldn't. I didn't want you to worry. I thought held sort himself out. I hardly see him. He comes and goes. He's in trouble, isn't he?
He's in some trouble ...
I knew it. He's changed, Randall. He's a different boy. He's lost that... That sweetness ... It's gone ... And I don't know what to do ...
You getting my checks ... ?
Of course ...
He doesn't return my calls. or my letters ...
Kipling was sixteen when you left, baby. I don't know what you remember of him. But you should brace yourself
The photo album. I get nostalgic around this time of year ...
What time of year?
Tuesdays ...
You ever wonder what things'd be like if he hadn't died?
Every day. I wonder about that every day...
Kip and I'd probably be working at the dealership... Imagine us selling cars?
And just in case you lose your keys, good sir, I can toss in a complimentary slimjim, free of charge ...
Mother  !
I remember. Supper getting cold, cos you two are out there heads under hoods ...
You remember that, Kip?
I know...
We do it. He'll get clear Once and for all
The corner of Hawthorne and Granvia. Tumbler messed up. He said the Lotus would be at the corner of Hawthorne and Granvia 
He didn't mess up. There it is ...
How are we supposed to
Pop the trunk. I need my tool ...
Any word, Kip  ?
No ... And they won't take my calls ...
What does that mean  ?
It ain't what you'd call a "good sign"
That can't be it. Cos we don't need saving
We don't  ?
How you know that?
Remember who my brother is?
Okay, okay. What about MAGNUM P.I.?
Thanks for playing, Freb. That's a gimme ...
A bunch of strungout hypes and stick up men. This ain't like the old days, Memphis. The profession has lost its..
Dignity...
Yeah...
We're on a truncated timetable. Take a day to shop it; a day to prep it ... And we're still going to need to expand the crew...
There's no one left ...
We've got several Italian cars on the list. Always tricky, always timeconsuming. So we're gonna need a specialist ...
Jesus. The whole damn thing's loaded.
one minute  !
Yes, I do, in fact. John Wayne in McO...
That's being obscurest ... Who else? Better known. Memphis?
Walked like a bastard... Skippin' stones and shit..
That's a good one, Donny...
I think so too 
Damn. Memphis Raines. Long time ...
How you doing, man?
All I get are the Orientals. They can build 'em, but they can't drive 'em So? What are you doing here? What's with the outfit  ?
You know where the others are?
Forget that ...
Okay. Figure it forgotten. What's this about anyways  ?
Most of 'em are latemodel...
That's right. Only 10 exotics ...
We'll have to start beating the bushes, find out where they live...
Wow! They got Eleanor here  ?
I know. Weird, huh  ?
Eleanor is Memphis' "unicorn."
And there she is 
How's it going  ?
It's arright ...
I miss Orville Redenbacher already 
Okay, okay. The important thing to remember, is to Think Slow. Take your time. It may not seem like it, but the night is long. Long enough. Just think slow and think smart...
Lookit Kip. All grown up...
Hey, Donny 
You guys have any skills at all?
Hell, yeah. Mirror Man here is our electronics expert. He's got some gadgets you old farts maybe never heard of; Tumbler can drive anything with wheels, and some things without; Toby's a hacker, can do things with a computer, that are pretty amazing ...
What about him?
Freb can order pizzas like nobody's business
For real. Okay. Gimme COLUMBO...
Peugot convertible ...
What color?
Gray.
No. That was Higgins ....
Jonathan Quayle Higgins ...
How'd it go?
Keys were in it ...
Well, that defies the point, don't it?
It just ain't happening 
You'll get the hang of it, kid. You just need to remember one thing 
What's that?
I guess ...
You got a school teacher or Nancy from accounting, you don't put on Sly Stone or James Brown. You put on Ravel. Rachmaninoff. But if you got some wild one you just picked up at the track, you wouldn't put on Cat Stevens or James Taylor. You'd put on Prince. Or Isaac Hayes. Or, if you really wanted to get after it: Miles.
okay ...
It's the same way with cars. Different cars. Different tunes. You can't steal a Maserati listening to Sinatra. You gotta get urgent. You gotta get Sonny Rollins or Led Zeppelin IV, on that shit. But never, neverever take no Allman Brothers into a Lincoln Town Car. Could lead to disaster. Got it... ?
Got it ...
Good.
Diane 1.
Very good. Think you can get in without waking her up  ?
Yeah.
That's an aftermarket alarm. Can't just cut her wires ...
What's the matter?
It's all microchips and shit ...
Yeah?
So? Tell me: how come they call you "Freb" anyways  ?
C'mon, man ...
We're partners here 
You ever feel bad about any of this?
Of course not. I'm Robin Hood. I take from the rich, and give to the needy...
You mean the poor 
No. The needy. Us. Cos we need this car!
Donny 
Donnynothin'!
C'mon, Donny... Let's go, man 
Lazy ... Lazy ... I ask you, Freb: what's the matter with kids today?
When'd you get to town, Raines?
The other day....
What for?
No particular reason. Catch a Laker game. I heard we got Shaquille ...
Where you been, anyway?
Just out there. Roaming around. Building up my collection of refrigerator magnets ...
You seem a little hinkedup ...
Not at all ...
Who is it  ?
Castlebeck.
What's this  ?
Cadillac.
What's wrong with it  ?
Needs brightening ...
No faith in our newfound goodness, Detective ...?
Sure. But sometimes we got to create some numbers. The task force is run by statistics, you know ...
Okay, then. I'll catch you later, Randall ...
Doublemeaning intended, right?
Right ...
I know you 
You know my back 
You want to come along quiet?
How's Atley  ?
Leg's all bangedup. He made a stupid play ... He'll limp around the yard up at Folsom. But Astricky will be there to take care of him. With their priors, they're looking at a serious bounce 
Let them go 
How's that?
Let them go. And I'll leave ...
You'll leave  ?
You don't have anything on me. A misdee autotheft. I got no record. I'll be out in three days, and back at it. Or you let them go, and I give you my word. I'm gone. And without the ringleader ... Your teetimes have just grown exponentially...
I don't golf...
You have my word...
Get out of here, then. Now.
I know you.
You know my back.
I remember us having made some kind of deal, Randall. I don't remember this deal having some kind of timelimit. I look at you  here  in my town  and I'm confused...
A little family emergency 
I hope it's not your dear sweet mother...
No...
Or your baby brother. What was his name?
Kip.
Yes, Kip. Short for Kipling. Named for the English writer of stories about India ... He bites into his pear ... Memphis says nothing, waits ...
And this has what to do with me?
I don't know. But you shouldn't be here. Take care of your business. I'll give you 24 hours. And then I don't want to see your face. Ever again. Make a fool of me once, that's my bad. Make a fool of me twice. That's really my bad, and I'll kick your ass from here to India ...
I know you.
You know my back.
What are you still doing here, Randall?
Stopped by to see Otto. Say hello.
You're thinking: okay, there's no want ... But they probably stripped its guts and crated 'em up, right ... ?
Something like that 
It's funny. There's probably been five more cars stolen in the time I've been here ...
I don't think so, Detective ...
I'm on the move 
Your girl works in there ...
Not my girl anymore
Yet your still here ... I gave you 24 hours, 24 hours ago ...
What do you want from me?
Honestly? I want to  once every few months  get into my car. Pack a lunch. And drive on up to Chino. On visiting day. Bring you some magazines. Maybe some almond clusters. And see you all bright and shiny in your orange jumpsuit. That's what I want ...
I know you.
You know my back.
I want you gone, Randall. Settle your affairs. Make it right with those you love. Hell, take 'em with you. But I want you out of here. Out of here for good this time ...
Consider me gone, Detective 
I'll catch you later, Randall 
Doublemeaning intended 
You betcha 
Good. Cos you know how it plays. Six years ago, I let you go free. But the next time ... The next time sends you away for'a long, long while ...
By the time you get out, asshole, there won't even be cars. We'll all be cruisin' around in space ships ...
They just brought in Donny Astricky. Shot by a jacker ...
How is he?
He'll live. But it means your boy's behind it. Astricky was holding a list. They just faxed it to us...
Let's get out there. And have them run down every 167 Shelby Mustang in the area ... Find out where they're at.
What for?
You spend enough time down a man's throat, you get to know his tonsils. Do it ...
Randall Raines ... It's been a long time ... frowns) 'though I do I recall you as a man with style. You remember your old friend, Atley  ?
How ya doing?
It's about my brother ... Kip...
Yes ... Kip ...
Now. Where were we? Oh, yes. Kip.
I don't want him hurt...
My point. Yes. Simple, really. I require the best. I insist on the best. I only engage the best. Your brother. His friends. They came to me. They wanted my paper. He was your brother. You were the best. Now. They've brought so much goddamn heat down, I may not be able to fill this order. Which would be very bad for me. Which in turn, is very bad for them...
I could kill you. That occurred to me. When I first heard about this. That I would kill you ...
Grow up. You don't kill people like me. People like me die in their sleep at 87 ... Do you know why? Because if you did kill me, and everyone knew it was you  for the next ten years they'd be finding pieces of those you love scattered all over California ...
I can come up with the front money. Pay you back...
Were it only that easy. I have obligations. The order needs to be filled...
They gave you only four days?
They gave me two weeks. I wasted most of it with your brother and his crew, who not only lost what pitiful few they managed to boost, but also alerted the heat as to our endeavor, making this even more difficult to achieve ...
I'm not interested 
I knew you'd say that.
I'm just here about my brother.
I knew you'd say that, too 
Sound it out for me.
Your brother has four days. Fifty cars. Fivezero. For that he gets 200 large ...
And if he doesn't make it  ?
I don't want them hurt. Any of 'em...
"don't want" the Dodgers to lose or the summer to end. But we don't get to choose these things...
This is how you're spending my time? Having a sock hop?
Everyone know Ray Calitri? Pillar of the community ...
Look at this. A multigenerational gathering of scumbags ...
Get out of here, Ray 
One more night 
Get out 
I hope you know what you're doing. God help you if you don't ...
Well, well. You've caused quite a ruckus ...
This is number 50. We did it. It's over Where's the money ?
Right there 
You should never have gotten my brother and his friends involved ...
But I had to. It was the only way to get to you 
Well, now, he's clear. And you'll stay away from him...
I don't know about that, Randall. He did such a good job on this paper. And another one just came in ...
Well, that certainly won't do.
What do you mean  ?
Look at it. I can't very well make delivery of that thing ...
You got no choice. It's over.
Fifty cars. Fifty cars by 8 AM Friday. Or Kip goes in that box. That was the deal ... Goddamn, it ... That was the deal ...
How's the leg?
Only hurts when I breathe. Lookit you. Where are Barney Fife and Aunt Bea hanging out? And Opie ... Where's Opie at?
What are you doing here?
Is there someplace we can talk?
What about?
About your brother. And the deeeep shit he's in 
It's been a long time, Memphis 
Six years ...
Six years. Shit. Time flies, don't it? Six years ago we were fartin' through Armani and pissin' Cristal. Now look at us ...
Tell me about Kip 
He took a job. And he fumbled it. Now he's jammedup. Jammedup bad...
What kind of job... ?
A boost. A big boost ...
A boost? What's Kip doing on a boost?
It seems she neglected to mention it
Maybe she don't know. Although I don't see how that could be. Maybe she didn't want to upset you 
Don't feel the need to explore my family dynamics, Atley...
The point is: Kip's been living the life. Only he's a wild child. Crazy. Makes our old behavior seem like altar boy time. But he fungold this one so bad, folks around L.B. are already speakin' about him in the past tense.
Who was the job for?
Who do you think?
Carjacker. Neglected to clean up after himself ...
Jesus ...
The business has changed...
What's with the fish thing  ?
We can learn something from our Asian friends. They smoke a thousand cigarettes a day; they're completely stressed and overworked; they drink like, well ...
Fish.
And they still have the lowest rate of cancer of anywhere in the world. You know why? All they eat is seafood.
Also, never underestimate the restorative powers of "Karaoke."
I do a poaching number. Sixounce fillets in a saucepan of brine. In 8 minutes, I could cater a goddamn wedding. Plain but flavorful. And it's a good way to show off my Hollandaise sauce ...
You have a Hollandaise sauce ?
I do ... Christ, what happened to us ?
Speak for yourself, boss I don't have a Hollandaise sauce
No, but you dress like an asshole ...
I think about that night a lot...
Me, too. Every time I walk...
How they were just there ... Waiting on us ... The fix was definitely in ...
Yeah  ?
Yeah Tell him to lay off Kip and them Tell him it's on
Jesus, man ... What'd you do?
My version of "take this job and shove it..."
Are you crazy? You throw down with The Carpenter? You got a grudge against your life?
Ding Dong The Witch Is Dead, right?
Pointfive ...
How are you?
Fine. Quite fine. And Your Royal Highness?
Splendid. Now that I know you're around.
Can we get together while I'm in town? I so badly want to sit for you again.
Sit?
I've changed my hair, you see. Since our last session. Those old snaps look rather dowdy now.
Oh dear. Have I made a blunder?
Ma'am, the pleasure is all mine. James Whale.
I am such a goose. I mistook you for Cecil Beaton. It's the hat. You're wearing one of Cecil's hats, you know.
Mr. Whale, this is such an honor. You're one of my favorite alltime directors. I can't believe I'm meeting you.
No. I expect you can't.
And this is your house. Wow. The house of Frankenstein. I thought you'd live in a spooky old mansion or villa.
One likes to live simply.
I know. People's movies aren't their lives.
That's my favorite line in my favorite movie of yours. "Bride of Frankenstein."
Is it now? Hanna? I think we'll take our tea down by the swimming pool.
Will that be good for you, Mr. Kay?
Sure.
After you then.
This is the studio where I paint.
Nice. And your lighting and camera angles. You're got to go back to German silent movies to find anything like it.
So, Mr. Kay? What do you want to know?
Everything. Start at the beginning.
I was born outside London, the only son of a minister who was a master at Harrow. Grandfather was a bishop. Church of...Church of Eng...
Yes?
Your father was a schoolmaster?
Of course. I attended Eton  it wouldn't do for a master's son to attend where his father taught. I was to go up to Oxford but the war broke out and I never made it. The Great War, you know. You had a Good War, but we had a great one.
There was one play in particular, a beautiful, grim study of war called "Journey's End". Every experienced director turned it down, so I offered myself, bullying and begging for the job. "Journey's End" made the careers of everyone associated with it. It was only a matter of time until Hollywood beckoned.
How much longer before we get to "Frankenstein"?
Am I correct in assuming, Mr. Kay, that it's not me you're interested in, only my horror pictures?
Oh no, I want to hear everything. You made twenty pictures in all 
Twentyone. The romantic comedies and dramas were much more to my liking. The horror pictures were trifles. Grand guignol for the masses.
But it's the horror movies you'll be remembered for.
I am not dead yet, Mr. Kay.
No. I never said you were. Or will be soon.
I have a proposal, Mr. Kay. This mode of questioning is getting old, don't you think?
I don't mind.
Let's make it more interesting. I will answer any question you ask. But, for each answer, you must remove one article of clothing.
That's funny, Mr. Whale.
It is, isn't it? My life as a game of strip poker. Shall we play?
You're serious.
Quite.
Then the rumors are true?
What rumors might those be?
That you were forced to retire because, uh  a sex scandal.
A homosexual scandal, you mean? For me to answer a question of that magnitude, you'll have to remove both your shoes and your socks.
Too warm for a sweater, anyway.
You must understand how Hollywood was twenty years ago. Nobody cared a tinker's cuss who slept with whom, so long as you kept it out of the papers. Outside of Hollywood, who knows who George Cukor is, much less what he does with those boys from the malt shops along Santa Monica?
George Cukor? Who made "A Star Is Born"? I never guessed.
Take off your vest and I'll tell you a story.
Don't be shy. There's time to stop before you go too far.
I guess.
Can we talk about the horror movies now?
Certainly, Mr. Kay. Is there anything in particular you want to know?
Will you tell me everything you remember about making "Frankenstein"?
Can that count as one question?
Of course.
I can't believe I'm doing this.
Just like going swimming, isn't it?
Maybe you'd like a swim when we're through. I never swim myself, so the pool tends to go to waste.
Okay. "Frankenstein." Tell me everything.
Righto. Let me see.
Universal wanted me for another story, and wanted me so baldly  I mean badly, not baldly. I was given the pick of stories being developed, and I picked that one.
Who came up with the Monster's makeup and look?
My idea. Muchly. My sketches. Big heavy brow. Head flat on top so they could take out the old brain and put in the new, like tinned beef.
He's one of the great images of the twentieth century. As important as the Mona Lisa.
You think so? That's very kind 
Mr. Whale? Are you all right?
I just need to  lie down. Studio. Daybed in studio.
Oh my God. What's wrong, Mr. Whale? Is it your heart?
Head. Not heart.
I was going to take a swim.
I'm sorry I spoiled it for you. You should probably go home.
Right.
Mr....Kay?
Bet you thought you'd never see me again. I didn't know if you'd be well enough to come to this party.
You didn't?
I'm the one who got you on Mr. Cukor's guest list.
You, Mr. Kay? How do you know George Cukor?
I interviewed him after I met you. I'm his social secretary now. Well, assistant to his secretary.
I commend you. If you're going to pursue poofs, go after those who can do favors for you. You waste everybody's time when you court dinosaurs.
Don't think that, Mr. Whale. I love your movies. That's why I wanted you to come to this. So I could see you with your monsters.
My monsters?
Don't go away.
Hanna? Who's the new yardman?
Bone? Boom? Something Bee. I hire him while you were in the hospital. He came cheap.
There is iced tea, Hanna? Cucumber sandwiches?
Yes, Mr. Jimmy. An interview. After so many years. Very exciting.
Don't be daft. It's just a student from the university.
Mr. Kay, sir.
Yes?
Which ones? I bring them all.
Luminal.
You must think I'm terrible, Hanna.
I do not think you anything anymore. Just back from the hospital and already you are chasing after boys.
Oh shut up. All we did was talk. My attack had nothing to do with him.
Perhaps we should get you uphill before the pills knock you cold.
No. Let me lie here. Thank you.
How are you feeling, Mr. Jimmy? How is your mind today?
My mind's lovely. And yours?
You remember what the doctor tells us.
Yes, yes, yes. I merely invited Mr. Boone in for a glass of tea. We'll have a brief chat and he'll finish the yard.
I am not forgetting your last brief chat.
Just go. We can manage without you.
He looks plenty big. You won't need my help if anything goes flooey.
Go.
Oh, that monster. How could you be working with him?
Don't be silly, Hanna. He's a very proper actor. And the dullest fellow imaginable.
He is not going to kill the old man?
No, Hanna. My heart isn't that black.
She is horrible.
She is beautiful.
You will take them all, Mr. Jimmy?
I'll be fine, Hanna. Thank you.
Good night.
Does the yardman come today?
Of course. This afternoon.
Who was that at the door?
A visitor.
Mr. Boone. He is an interesting friend.
I'd hardly call our yardman a friend.
No. But someone you can talk to.
Do you miss having someone to talk to, Hanna?
I have my family. Also our Lord Jesus Christ.
Of course. How is the old boy these days?
It needs a hat. There was a widebrimmed cream fedora...
It must be up in your old room. I will look.
That is my daughter. She say she and her husband are coming to town this afternoon. I am sorry, Mr. Jimmy. I will make it short.
I'll be out this afternoon, remember? Your family can visit as long as they like.
No. I do not cook for them. My daughter's nogood husband will not take one bite of our food.
Uhoh. The way you look at me, James. What have you done this time?
Bring a mirror. Let the Bride feast upon her visage.
Boris? Do I look a fright?
And you said there'd be some of me left. Nobody's going to know me in this getup.
Nonsense, my dear. You look extraordinary. Today's script. Quick. And a pencil.
Jimmy. How are you?
Elsa?
I saw Una O'Conner a few weeks ago. She said you'd been under the weather.
Oh, nothing out of the ordinary. Growing old.
We're all getting a bit long in the tooth.
But you appear quite fresh, my dear.
Please. You shouldn't stand on my account.
Perfectly all right. But if you'd like to sit 
I'm fine, Jimmy. I can only stay a few minutes.
Of course.
What's our pesky friend up to now?
Is that Boris? Our little chum appears to be arranging a reunion.
Oh dear.
We'll be in touch, Jimmy.
Goodbye. So nice to see you...
My God. Is the audience to presume that Colin and I have done her hair? I thought we were mad scientists, not hairdressers.
Only a mad scientist could do this to a woman.
Oh no, my dear. You look absolutely amazing. There's no way I can compete with you. The scene is yours.
In the sequel, James, two lady scientists should make a monster. And our monster would be Gary Cooper.
I would've thought Mr. Leslie Howard would be more your line.
More your line.
My line nowadays runs to Rin Tin Tin. Dogs are so much more dependable than men.
You're a lucky man, Mr. Whale. Whatever damage was done by your stroke, it left your motor abilities relatively unimpaired.
Yes, yes, Dr. Payne. But from the neck up? What's my story there?
That's what I'm trying to explain.
The central nervous system selects items from a constant storm of sensations. Whatever was killed in your stroke appears to have shortcircuited this mechanism. Parts of your brain now seem to be firing at random.
You're saying there's an electrical storm in my head?
That's as good a way as any to describe it. I've seen far worse cases. You might even learn to enjoy these walks down memory lane.
But the rest of it? The killing headaches. The phantom smells. My inability to close my eyes without thinking a hundred things at once. It's all nothing more than bad electricity?
In a manner of speaking. I've never encountered the olfactory hallucinations, but I'm sure they're related.
So what do I do?
Take the Luminal to sleep, or whenever you feel an attack coming on.
You seem to be saying that this isn't just a case of resting until I'm better. That my condition will continue to deteriorate until the end of my life.
She tells me you haven't been sleeping well.
It's the ridiculous pills they prescribe. If I take them, I spend the next day stupid as a stone. If I don't, my mind seems to go off in a hundred directions at once 
Then take the pills.
I wanted to be alert for your visit today. Especially since I saw so little of you in the hospital.
I'm sorry, Jimmy. But with this movie and two difficult stars 
"The fault, dear David, is not in ourselves but in our stars."
You remember how a production eats up one's life.
Oh, David. There's no pleasure in making you feel guilty. You better go, my boy. You'll be late for that aeroplane.
By the way, I like the Renoir.
Thank you.
Goodbye, Hanna.
What are you doing here?
Just what I was about to ask you. I thought you were in New York.
I was, until last night. Publicity asked me to fly Miss Taylor in for today's reception.
Should you be drinking in your condition?
Oh, David, stop being a nanny.
You should have seen Georgie's face when he met Clayton.
You didn't, Jimmy.
I did. But Princess Margaret was a doll. We're all equals in her eyes. As commoners, I presume.
You only embarrass yourself.
Oh dear. I'll never work in this town again?
You know what I mean. Your reputation.
But I have no reputation. I'm as free as the air.
Well the rest of us aren't. Can't you remember that?
No. I never could. You must regret having had the invitation sent.
I didn't ask George to invite you.
Then who did?
Jimmy, there are people here I need to speak to. You'll be fine on your own?
Yes. Perfectly.
All right, then. I'll come by tomorrow for breakfast.
Can't say that I have. Can't say I've heard of a lot of people though.
If you don't believe me, let's watch this movie. See if his name's on it. How about it, Harry? Can I watch my damn movie?
I told you. I don't turn on the TV except for the fights.
Calm down, Clay. Just calm down. We'll watch it.
Good. Fine.
You're like a dog with a bone over this movie, Clay.
I just want to watch it, okay?
Sick stuff. Necrophilia. I wonder if they knew how sick they were.
The Monster's lonely and he wants a friend, a girlfriend, somebody. What sick about that?
Go home, Clay. We're closing up.
I thought I'd give you a hand since I kept you open.
Where's Betty?
She took the night off. Heavy date. Some guy she's had her eye on for a while.
Boone! You awake? Eight o'clock.
Fuck off!
You told me to get you up, asshole.
I'm up. Thanks.
Hasta la vista, Boone. And give the jail bait a squeeze for me.
I liked it. You learn stuff listening to oldtimers.
You ever hear of this Whale fellow?
This kisser wasn't so bad you couldn't lay under it a few times.
Ooooh.
You coming, Boone?
I think I'll hang around.
Hey, Boone.
Have a drink?
Good morning.
Mornin'.
My name is Whale. This is my house.
Nice place.
And your name is ?
Boone. Clayton Boone.
I couldn't help but notice your tattoo. That phrase? Death Before Dishonor. What does it mean?
Just that I was in the Marines.
The Marines. Good for you. You must have served in Korea.
Getting to be a warm day. A scorcher, as you Yanks call it.
Yeah. I better get on with my work.
Everything alright, Mr. Boone?
Just got away from me. Sorry to disturb you.
I was just about to ask Hanna to bring down iced tea. I'd like it very much if you'd join me.
I stink to high heaven right now.
The honest sweat of one's brow. I assure you I won't be offended. Let me tell Hanna to bring tea for two.
Or would you prefer a beer?
No. Iced tea's fine.
Splendid.
These are your paintings?
What? Oh yes.
Excuse me, but  are you famous?
You know what they say. If you have to ask 
I'm just a hick who cuts lawns. But some of these look familiar.
They were familiar when I painted them. That one's copied from a Dutch still life done almost three hundred years ago. And that's a Rembrandt.
They're just copies then. Gotcha.
But before I retired, you might say I had a brief time in the sun. Fame, as it were. Tell me, do you like motion pictures?
Sure, everybody does. When I was a kid I'd go with my sister twice a week. Why? Were you an actor or something?
In my youth, yes, but never in Hollywood. No, I was merely a director here.
Yeah? What were some of your movies?
This and that. The only ones you maybe have heard of are the "Frankenstein" pictures.
Really?
"Frankenstein" and "Bride of" and "Son of" and all the rest?
I made only the first two. The others were done by hacks.
Still. You must be rich. Making a couple of famous movies like those.
Merely comfortable. Here's Hanna with our refreshments. Can you get the door?
When they stay in your employ too long, servants begin to think they're married to you. Please, Mr. Boone. Help yourself.
What did she mean by going flooey?
I returned recently from a stay in hospital.
What was wrong?
Nothing serious. A touch of stroke.
You must excuse me for staring, Mr. Boone. But you have a marvelous head.
Huh?
To an artistic eye, you understand. Have you ever modeled?
You mean, like posed for pictures?
Sat for an artist. Been sketched.
What's to sketch?
You have the most architectural skull. And your nose. Very expressive.
Broke is more like it.
But expressively broken. How did it happen?
Football in college.
You went to university?
Just a year. I dropped out to join the Marines.
Yes. You were a Marine.
I apologize for going on like this. It's the Sunday painter in me. Of course I can understand your refusal. It's a great deal to ask of someone.
You mean  you really want to draw me?
Indeed. I'd pay for the privilege of drawing your head.
But why?
Even an amateur artist needs a subject to inspire him.
And it's just my head you want? Nothing else?
What are you suggesting? You'll charge extra if I include a hand or a bit of shoulder.
You don't want to draw pictures of me in my birthday suit, right?
I have no interest in your body, Mr. Boone. I can assure you of that.
All right then. Sure. I could use the extra dough.
Excellent. We'll have a most interesting time.
Did you see this? They're showing one of your movies tomorrow night.
You don't say? Which picture?
"Bride of Frankenstein."
Hmmm. I much prefer "Show Boat" or "The Invisible Man." Shall we begin?
That shirt, Mr. Boone.
It's new.
I'm sorry. It's too white, too distracting. Would it be asking too much for you to take it off?
I'm not wearing an undershirt.
Pish posh, Mr. Boone. I'm not your Aunt Tilly.
But it's just my face you want to draw.
Oh if it's going to make you uncomfortable... Perhaps we can find something else for you to wear.
We could wrap this like a toga around your shoulders. Would that help you overcome your schoolgirl shyness?
All right already. I'll take it off. Kind of warm in here anyway.
Take a picture, it lasts longer.
That's exactly what I intend to do.
Would you be more comfortable barefoot? Feel free to remove your boots and socks.
No. I'm fine.
It's a bit like being at the doctor, isn't it? You have to remain perfectly still while I examine and scrutinize you.
Dripping? Do you ever eat dripping in this country? The fat from roasts and such, congealed in jars. Used like butter on bread.
Sounds like something you feed the dog.
It is. Only the poorest families ever ate it. We kept ours in a crockery jar.
Your family ate dripping?
Of course not. As I said, only poor people 
I'm sorry. I've just realized how terribly ironic it all is.
What?
I've spent most of my life outrunning my past. Now it's flooding all over me.
There's something about the openness of your face that makes me want to speak the truth. Yes, my family ate dripping. Beef dripping and four to a bed, and a privy out back in the alley. Are you also from the slums, Mr. Boone?
We weren't rich. But we weren't poor either.
No, you were middle class, like all Americans.
I guess you'd say we lived on the wrong side of the tracks.
In Dudley there were more sides of the tracks than any American can imagine. Every Englishman knows his place. And if you forget, there's always someone to remind you. My family had no doubts about who they were. But I was an aberration in that household a freak of nature. I had imagination, cleverness, joy. Where did I get that? Certainly not from them.
You have to excuse me, Mr. Boone. Since my stroke, I am often overcome with nostalgia.
I don't mind. I'm not crazy about my old man either.
How are you, Mr. Boone? So glad you are free for lunch.
All right, I guess.
I assume you worked up an appetite with your labor.
Do you mind?
Go ahead.
Is this David's doing?
This David's a friend?
Yes. An old, useless friend. You must excuse me, Mr. Boone. This is a world I finished with long ago. I pay them no mind and expect them to return the compliment. Lunch should be ready. Shall we?
Saw your movie the other night. Watched it with some friends.
Did you now?
I liked it. We all did.
Did anyone laugh?
No.
Pity. People are so earnest nowadays.
Why? Was it supposed to be funny?
Of course. I had to make it interesting for myself, you see. A comedy about death. The trick is not to ruin it for anyone who isn't in on the joke. But the Monster never receives any of my gibes. He is noble. Noble and misunderstood.
Did you kill anyone?
I don't like to talk about that.
It's nothing to be ashamed of, in the service of one's country. That's something to be proud of.
Proud? Any jerk with a gun can kill someone.
Quite true. Handtohand combat is the true test. Did you ever slay anyone handtohand?
No. I could have, though.
Yes, I believe you could. How free is your schedule this afternoon?
Full up. I got the hedges to do here, then another lawn out by La Cienega.
What is we say phooey to the hedges? Could you spare an hour after lunch? To sit for me?
Can't today.
I'll pay our going rate. Plus what you'd get if you did the hedges.
Sorry. I don't feel like sitting still today.
All righty. I understand.
Just a trim. And mine while you're at it. Fingers are a bit stiff today.
You ever been married, Mr. Whale?
No. At least not in the legal sense.
So you had a wife?
Or a husband. Depending on which of us you asked. My friend David. He lived here for many years.
Does that surprise you?
No, I  you're a homosexual.
Oh dear. If one must have a clinical name.
I'm not, you know.
I never thought you were.
You don't think of me that way, do you?
What way might that be?
You know. Look at me like  like I look at women.
Don't be ridiculous. I know a real man like you would break my neck if I so much as laid a hand on him. Besides, you're not my type.
So we understand each other?
What you do is no business of mine. Live and let live, I say.
I hope this has nothing to do with your refusing to sit for me today?
No. I 
Can I see what you did so far?
It will only make you selfconscious. You'll have to remove your shirt.
Sorry. Not today.
But we have to match the other sketch.
I just feel more comfortable keeping it on. You just said you didn't want me selfconscious.
Oh dear. I <u>have</u> made you nervous.
I'm fine. I'd just rather keep it on.
Suppose we unbutton the top and pull it down around your shoulders? Two buttons. Is that so much to ask? Just two little buttons.
I don't mean to be a prick, but that's how I feel.
Of course. I don't want to scare you off. Not before I'm finished with you.
Tell me more about yourself, Mr. Boone. You have a steady companion?
Not at the moment.
Why not?
You know how it is. You have to kiss ass just to get a piece of it.
Very well put.
The world is just one kissass game after another. A man has to make up his own life, alone.
Ah. A philosopher.
Thoreau with a lawnmower.
I like that. But take care, Mr. Boone. Freedom is a drug, much like any other. Too much can be a very bad thing.
Is that why you and your friend split up? Because you wanted to be free?
In a way, yes. I suppose so. I know it's why I stopped making pictures.
You might not think it to look at me now, but there was a time when I was at the very pinnacle of my profession. The horror movies were behind me. I'd done "Show Boat." Major success. Great box office. Now I was to do something important. "The Road Back." An indictment of the Great War and what it did to Germany. It was to be my masterpiece.
What happened?
The fucking studio butchered it. It was 1937, Hitler's armies were already massing  and still the New York bankers stood in line to curry his favor. Anything to avoid losing the German market. They cut away the guts and brought in another director to add slapstick. The picture laid an egg, a great expensive bomb. For which I was blamed.
After that, I went out of fashion. I was no longer able to command the best projects, so I walked away. Why should I spend my time working in such a dreadful business?
Do you miss it?
It's so far in the past now. Over fifteen years 
I think we all want to feel we've left our mark on the world. Yes. I wish I had done more work.
You've done a helluva lot more than most people.
Better work.
But I chose freedom. David was still in the thick of it, his life full of anxiety and studio intrigue. I didn't fancy spending my golden years as merely "the friend." The dirty little secret of a nervous producer.
How long were you...?
Twenty years. Too long. We were like a play whose run outlasted the cast's ability to keep it fresh. So I finally decided to close down the show.
Of course, they weren't nearly as bashful. No, this room was once filled with bare buttocks. And pricks. Hard, arrogant pricks 
Cut it out!
Isn't it enough you told me you're a fairy? Do you have to rub my nose in it?
I assure you, Mr. Boone, I meant no 
From now on, Mr. Whale, I cut your grass and that's it. Understand?
The extras are in their places. Now we need the star. Wouldn't you like to get in the pool?
You first.
Oh no. I never swim.
Mr. Boone. You're not due to cut the lawn until Wednesday.
I'd like to sit for you again. But only if you ease up on the locker room talk. Okay?
I'm curious, Mr. Boone. What convinced you to come back?
I don't know. I guess I like your stories.
Everybody has stories to tell.
Not me.
What about your stint in Korea? I'm sure it was full of dramatic episodes.
I told you. I don't like to talk about that.
And the fear you showed at our last session? How did you overcome that?
Not fear. More like disgust.
Same difference, Mr. Boone. Disgust, fear of the unknown  all part of the great gulf that stands between us. Am I right in assuming that you've had little experience with men of my persuasion?
There's no people like you in my crowd.
No teammates in football? No comrades in Korea?
You must think the whole world is queer. Well it's not. War sure isn't.
Oh, there may not be atheists in the foxholes, but there are occasionally lovers.
You're talking through your hat now.
Not at all. I was in the foxholes myself.
You were a soldier?
I was an officer.
This was World War I?
No, my dear. The Crimean War. What do you think? The Great War. You had a Good War, while we had 
Barnett. Was that his name? Leonard Barnett. He came to the front straight from Harrow. And he looked up to me. Unlike the others, he didn't care that I was a workingman impersonating his betters. How strange, to be admired so blindly. I suppose he loved me. But chastely, like a schoolboy.
Something happened to him?
You will not set me on another walk down memory lane. Not this lane. Not today.
I didn't 
Why do I tell you this? I never told David. I never even remembered it until you got me going.
You're the one who started it.
You're very clever, Mr. Boone. You just sit there and let me talk. What a sorry old man, you're thinking. What a crazy old poof. Why are you here? What do you want from me?
You asked me to model. Remember?
Of course I remember. Do you think I'm so senile 
Just go. Please. Why don't you go?
I don't get it. First you creep me out with homo shit. Then you hit me with war stories. And now you're upset because I listen? What do you want?
I want  I want...
My apologies. I had no business snapping at you.
No harm done.
It was foolishness to attempt this portrait. You cannot force what will not flow.
You don't want me to sit for you anymore?
If you don't mind driving, I'd like to take you as my guest. There should be lots of pretty starlets to keep you amused.
I'm game. Sure.
Very good, Clayton. May I call you Clayton? Or do you prefer Boone?
Clayton is fine.
Good afternoon, Clayton.
Do I look okay?
I suppose you'd like the top down.
If that's okay?
Nothing would please me more.
What did I tell you? Listen.
I don't hear anything.
Exactly. Cukor was too cheap to hire music. There's nothing but chinwag. The cold dreary custard of English chinwag.
What was that about?
Nothing of importance. Just two old men slapping each other with lilies. Shall we have a drink?
Who's that?
David. The friend I thought was in New York.
No. The girl.
Girl? Oh. Elizabeth Taylor.
Is that really her?
David produced her last picture.
Are you enjoying yourself?
Actually, no. I feel a little out of place.
Neither of us really belongs here.
Must have been funny for you. Seeing your monsters again.
Monsters? The only monsters... ...are here.
Oh fuck. And we left the top down. You want to run for it?
Run for what?
Can't you see? It's raining!
Let's get out of this funk hole
You don't want to wait it out? Rain should let up soon.
We're not sugar. We won't melt.
I better get you home before you catch your death from pneumonia.
Catch my death.
It's not like her.
Just a night out. Sounds like she can't say no to her daughter.
Certainly you have better things to do than babysit an old man?
Good. Let's get dry.
Oh, of course. Clayton. You finished your shower already?
Ten minutes ago. Didn't you hear me calling?
I'm afraid not. Terribly sorry. I believe I promised you some clothes.
You're much wider than I am. You won't want to attempt to get into my pants.
No. Definitely not.
That only leaves the rest.
You don't have any baggy shorts? Pajama bottoms?
Sorry. My pajamas are tailored. Would it be too distressing to continue with the towel? No more immodest than a kilt, you know.
Do I have any other choice?
Very sporting of you, Clayton.
Is that ?
The only memento I ever kept. My original sketch for the Monster.
After dinner, if Hanna isn't back? Can we try a few more sketches?
I thought you'd given up on my picture.
I'd like to try again. If you're game.
Why not? Give us something to do while we wait.
Tell me something, Clayton. Do you believe in mercy killing?
Never gave it much thought.
Come now. I'm sure you came across such situations in Korea. A wounded comrade, or perhaps one of the enemy? Someone for whom death would be a blessing.
I never made it to Korea.
But you said 
 that I was a Marine. Which is true. You filled in the rest.
I see.
My old man was a Marine. He enlisted the day he turned seventeen.
The Great War?
By the time he was ready to ship out, the fighting was over. He missed out.
A very lucky thing indeed.
That's not the way he saw it. To him, it was like his life never got started. Nothing else really mattered. Definitely not his family.
The morning after Pearl Harbor, he drove down to St. Louis to reenlist. He was so damn excited. World War II was going to be his second chance. They told him he was too old...fat ...nearsighted. Said he'd be more use to his country if he stayed home and looked after his family.
Is that why you joined the Marines? For your father's sake?
I figured he'd think, you know  it was the next best thing. Hey, I loved it too. A chance to be a part of something important. Something bigger than yourself.
What happened?
I didn't have the guts for it.
You know what he did when I called him? He laughed. He laughed so hard he practically burst a blood vessel. Said it was a good lesson for me. Not to try to fill his shoes.
I'm very sorry.
Them's the breaks, right? No war stories for this pup.
That's where you're wrong, Clayton. You've just told one. A very good story indeed.
Do you mind?
Not at all.
Storm's getting worse.
"A perfect night for mystery and horror. The air itself is filled with monsters."
That's from your movie, right? "The only monsters are here."
I don't remember that one.
James Whale. This afternoon at the party.
I said it must be weird seeing your monsters again, and you said, "The only monsters are here." I was wondering which here you meant.
I don't recall. Memories of the war, perhaps.
But that was so long ago. It can't still bother you.
Oh, but it does. Especially in light of the journey I'm about to make.
You're planning a trip?
Barnett. Barnett on the wire.
Your friend?
Oh death where is thy stingaling? Grave where thy victory?
You survived it. It can't hurt you now. It's no good to dig it up.
Oh no, my friend. It's digging itself up. There is nothing in the here and now to take my mind off it. All my diversions have abandoned me. Parties. Reading. Painting. Work. Love. All gone to me now.
So it is going to happen after all.
What'd you say?
No. It won't do.
What won't do?
You are much too human.
What did you expect? Bronze?
Don't move.
Why?
For the artistic effect. The combination of your human body and that inhuman mask. It's quite striking.
I don't know.
Please, Clayton. Just for a minute. Long enough for me to see the effect.
It's from the first World War, isn't it?
There are straps in back.
All right. Let's take it off now.
What was that?
It's too tight.
Just take off the fucking mask!
Relax, Clayton. I can't hear you. I can't hear a word.
I'm not that way. Get it through your fucking head. I don't want to mess with you.
Oh, but you feel good, Clayton.
Wait until I tell my friends I had you naked in my arms. Won't they be surprised?
I haven't done a damn thing with you!
Oh, but you have. You undressed for me. I kissed you. I even touched your prick. How will you be able to live with yourself?
Break my neck. Or strangle me. It would be oh so easy to wrap your hands around my neck and choke the life out of me. Please, Clayton. We've come this far.
You're crazy.
Look, if you want to die do it yourself!
No, I don't want to die alone. But to be killed by you  that would make death bearable. They say you never see the one with your name on it. But I want to see death coming at me. I want it to be sharp and hard, with a human face. Your face. Think, Clayton. You'd be my second Monster. Almost as famous as the first. It would be the great adventure you've yearned for. A war story for both of us to share.
You okay?
Oh Clayton.
Did I hurt you?
Nothing I didn't deserve.
Need some help?
Pray you, undo this button.
I can undress myself, thank you.
All right.
When you die...be sure your brain is the last organ to fizzle 
You'll feel better tomorrow.
Tomorrow and tomorrow and tomorrow...
Don't worry, you already paid me. I'm here because 
The Master is waiting for you.
It's your job, lady, not mine. I'm here so he can draw my picture.
I'm keeping away. What you are doing is no business of mine.
What're you talking about?
What kind of man are you? Are you a good man?
Yeah, I'm a good man. Something make you think I'm not?
You will not hurt him?
Gimme a break. I'm going to sit on my ass while he draws pictures. Is that going to hurt him?
No. No. I am sorry. Forget everything I say. Here. I will take the tray.
You do that.
Something I can do for you?
The Master wants to know if you are free for lunch. I tell him you will be having other plans, but he insists I ask.
Got a lawn this afternoon, but I'm free until then.
Expect nothing fancy.
The Master is dressing. I am to offer you a drink. There is whiskey and there is iced tea.
Tea is fine.
No. You are a guest now. You go in the living room.
That's okay, Hanna. I'm more comfortable in here. It is Hanna, isn't it?
How long you worked for Mr. Whale?
Long enough. Fifteen years.
I bet you've seen a lot of famous people come and go? Movie stars?
No. We live simply, Mr. Jimmy and I. People come to play bridge. And now and then, young men to swim. You have people, Boone?
You mean family? All in Joplin, Missouri.
Your wife?
I'm not married.
Why?
Oh, I don't know. Because no girl in her right mind will have me?
A man who is not married has nothing. He is a man of trouble. You need a woman.
You proposing what I think you're proposing? Don't you think I'm a little young for you?
You ever been married, Hanna?
Of course. I am married still.
Yeah? What's your husband do?
He is dead now, twenty years.
Then you're as single as I am.
No. I have children, grandchildren too. I visit when I can. But now that Mr. Jimmy cannot be left very long, I do not get away much. Poor Mr. Jimmy. There is much good in him, but he will suffer the fires of hell. Very sad.
You're sure of that?
This is what the priests tell me. His sins of the flesh will keep him from heaven.
Sins of the flesh? Everybody has those.
No. His is the worse. The unspeakable. The deed no man can name without shame?
What is the good English? All I know is bugger. He is a bugger. Men who bugger each other.
A homo?
Yes! You know?
That is why he must go to hell. I do not think it fair. But God's law is not for us to judge.
You're telling me Mr. Whale is a homo.
You did not know?
Well...no, not really 
You and he are not doing things?
No!
Good. That is what I hope. I did not think you a bugger too. I fear only that you might hurt him if he tries.
I'm not going to hurt anyone.
Yes. I trust you.
It's not what you think.
I have brought you your clothes. All I ask is that you get dressed and go. We are having a guest for breakfast.
I need to talk to you about Mr. Whale.
There is nothing you can say that will surprise me.
Maybe. But I still need to talk. Do I have time for a cup of coffee before I go?
I blame my daughter for keeping me out so late. I only hope you did not get him excited. It could give him a new stroke.
Thanks. Why do you do it?
What do I do?
Take care of Mr. Whale like he was your flesh and blood.
It is my job. I did it when he was happy and it was easy. It is only fair I do it now when he is ill. Enough talk. I must wake up the master.
What have you done with him?
I put him to bed. He's not there?
I didn't do it. This wasn't me.
Oh, Mr. Jimmy.
He wanted me to kill him, but I didn't. He did it himself.
He says here goodbye. I find it in his room. He is sorry, he says. He has had a wonderful life.
You must leave. You were not here this morning.
But I didn't do this!
The police will not know that. They will want to investigate.
We have his note.
Do you want to be questioned about you and Mr. Jimmy? Please, Clayton. It will be better if I find the body alone.
But how're you going to explain this? How did you get him out of the pool?
You are right. Yes. We must put him back.
Thanks, doll.
I say let loverboy watch his movie. And be grateful Boone's not cutting Shirley Temple's lawn.
Why is everybody giving me crap tonight?
What makes you say that?
Just thinking out loud.
Yeah, well keep your filthy thoughts to yourself.
All right, then. He's interested in you for your conversation. We know what a great talker you are.
Fuck you.
Not anymore you don't. Doll.
We're watching the movie, Harry. You got that! We are watching my fucking movie.
This looks corny.
Go wash glasses if you don't like it.
These old movies are such a hoot. They thought they were being scary, but they're just funny.
Maybe it's supposed to be funny.
Funny is funny and scary is scary. You don't mix them.
So what did you think?
Weird.
You know what? I think you guys are all jealous.
What's to be jealous of?
I've gotten to know someone who's famous.
Not so famous any of us have ever heard of him.
If he were that famous, he probably wouldn't give me the time of day. This way, he's like <u>my</u> famous person. Yeah, my own personal famous person. Who treats me like I'm somebody worth talking to.
What's that mean?
It means it's too cold to go swimming. And I don't mean the water.
I wasn't going to try anything.
Yeah, and I'm never going to smoke another cigarette.
This old guy  he's the kind of person I expected to meet when I moved out here. Someone who's done things with his life.
Do you realize you're more interested in this old goober than you ever were in me?
It's different. He's a man. And by the way you have no business calling him a homo.
It never crossed your mind?
He's an artist. Anyway, he's too old to think about sex.
All the old men I know think about nothing but sex.
You picked up that girl right in front of me.
Hey, no strings, right? That's what you always said. Just good pals who have the hots for each other.
It still hurt. A lot.
I didn't mean to...
No, I'm actually kind of glad it happened. It made me wonder what the hell I was doing with my life. Letting you pull me into bed whenever the spirit moved you.
You liked it too.
Sure. I loved it.
If you enjoy it, you should do it.
You know, I just can't do that anymore. I still have time to get things right. Get married again 
You mean us?
The look on your face! You're not marriage material. You're not even boyfriend material. You're a kid. A big, fun, slightly irresponsible kid.
I'm not a kid.
What are you then? What will you be ten years from now? Still cutting lawns? Still banging horny divorcees in your trailer?
I like my life. I'm a free man.
Sure you're free, for now at least. But how long before you're just alone? Pathetic and alone.
So you don't want to fuck. That's what you're telling me?
Is that all this conversation means to you? Am I going to put out or not?
Damn straight. I'm sick of playing games.
I have already rented the apartment to another family.
I told her I would speak to you, that you are a reasonable man who acted out of some misunderstanding. She has gotten rid of the animal that caused all the trouble, so why shouldn't she stay. As one Italian to another, I ask you the favor.
I've already rented it; I cannot disappoint the new tenants. They're paying a higher rent.
How much more a month?
Eh... Five dollars more.
Here is the six month's increase in advance. You needn't speak to her about it, she's a proud woman. See me again in another six months. But of course, you'll let her keep her dog.
Like hell! And who the hell are you to give me orders. Watch your manners or you'll be on your Sicilian ass in the street there.
Excuse me, I hope I am not a disturbance, Don Corleone.
Yes.
What a terrible misunderstanding. Of course, Signora Colombo can stay in the flat. Who were those miserable tenants to complain about noise from a poor animal...when they pay such low rent.
Your good heart in helping the poor widow has shamed me, and I want to show that I, too, have some Christian charity. Her rent will remain what it was.
What was that?
In fact, reduced, bu five dollars!
I accept your generosity...
I won't keep you another minute...
Rosato, where's your brother?
Sitting right behind you.
He don't want to talk?
We worked it all out beforehand.
Are we going to eat or what?
Sure, on me. I got Diner's Club.
Forget it; I'm suddenly without an appetite. You're making big trouble, Carmine.
You weren't straight with us, Frankie, what else could we do?
We could have talked first, saved a lot of running around.
You wasn't listening, you didn't want to talk.
Don't I look like I'm listening?
We want Brooklyn one hundred percent. No more taxes to you. We want to be only loosely connected with your family  sort of a underfamily all of our own. Then we can act on all internal matters without talking. Also we want you to inform Michael Corleone that we can deal directly with him.
I'm a little hungry, maybe I'll order something. Joe. Get me some bracciole or something. And pay cash. And in return for these concessions, what do you do for me?
We will release the hostages, number one. Number two, we're here for you to count on when you need us. We're independent, but we're here if you need us. In general, we'll cooperate with you and your businesses, and you in turn will cooperate with us. Pari persu.
Pari Persu; what the fuck is Pari persu...?
My lawyer went over this beforehand.
What assurances do I have that there will be no more kidnapping, no more hits?
The same assurance we got from you.
What if I say shove it?
Then Carmine Fucillo and Tony Blue DeRosa will need to be fitted for slabs.
You want a war?
We got no choice.
You know if there's a way I'll go to the commission and the commission will side with me. That puts me and the other New York families against you.
We got friends in the commission.
I'm talking about Italians!
What about Michael Corleone?
He supports me.
Maybe, yes... maybe no.
What's this?
That's a lucky C note for our new deal.
They're still on the property. Maybe you better stay inside.
Keep them alive.
We'll try.
It's important.
Your family all seem to be okay in the other houses; your Mother's still sleeping.
And?
No sign of them yet; but they're still on the Estate.
On the phone?
No, she's here.
My lawyer, Tom Hagen. He arranged this all through your man Turnbull.
I thought we would meet alone.
I trust these men with my life. They are my right arms; I cannot insult them by sending them away.
Some water.
The Corleone family controls two major hotels in Vegas; one in Reno. The licenses were grandfathered in, so you had no difficulties with the Gaming Commission. But I have the idea from sources... ...that you're planning to move in on the Tropicana. In another week or so you'll move Klingman out, which leaves you with only one technicality. The license, which is now in Klingman's name.
Turnbull is a good man.
Let's forget the bullshit, I don't want to stay here any longer than I have to. You can have the license for two hundred and fifty thousand in cash, plus a monthly fee equal to five percent of the gross...
Senator Geary, I speak to you as a businessman who has made a large investment in your state. I have made that state my home; plan to raise my children here. The license fee from the Gambling Commission costs one thousand dollars; why would I ever consider paying more?
I'm going to squeeze you, Corleone, because I don't like you; I don't like the kind of man you are. I despise your masquerade, and the dishonest way you pose yourself and your fucking family.
We're all part of the same hypocrisy, Senator. But never think it applies to my family.
All right, then let me say you'll pay me because it's in your interests to pay me.
I know.
When do we talk?
After dinner.
Sure, Pete Clemenza died of a heart attack, but the Rosato Brothers gave it to him.
We were all heartbroken at the news; but that wasn't cause to start a war.
Okay, now it's my family in Brooklyn; and I wanna keep up Clemenza's loyalty to you. But how can I run my family with you challenging my every move? You're too far from the street, Mike, the only way to reason with the Rosato Brothers is to whack 'em and whack 'em fast.
You were unfair with them.
Says who?
Clemenza promised Rosato three territories in the Bronx after he died, and then you took over and welched.
Clemenza promised them nothing, he hated the sonsuvbitches.
They feel cheated.
Michael, you're sitting up here in the Sierra Mountains with champagne cocktails making judgment on the way I run my family.
Your family still carries the name Corleone, and you will run it like a Corleone!
And while I feed my family in New York, you put the knife in my back in Miami.
Frankie, you're a good old man, and you've been loyal to my Father for years...so I hope you can explain what you mean.
The Rosatos are running crazy; taking hostages, spitting in my face, because they're backed by the Jew in Miami.
I know. That's why I want you to be fair with them.
How can you be fair with animals? They recruit niggers and spicks; they do violence in their own Grandmother's neighborhoods. And everything is dope and whores; the gambling is left to last. Let me run my family without you on my back. I want them taken care of.
No. There are things that I have planned with Hyman Roth. I don't want them disturbed.
You give your loyalty to a Jew over your own blood.
Frankie, you know my father respected Roth, did business with him.
He did business...but he never trusted him.
Don Corleone, I wish you let me know you was coming. We could have prepared something for you.
I didn't want you to know I was coming. You heard what happened in my home?
Michael, yes, we was all relieved...
In my home! In the same room where my wife was sleeping; where my children come in their pajamas, and play with their toys.
I want you to help me take my revenge.
Michael, anything. What is it I can do for you?
I want you to settle these troubles with the Rosato Brothers.
I was just going to contact you, Michael; we just had a 'sitdown'  in fact, I just come from there.
I want you to settle on their terms.
Mike, I don't understand. Don't ask me to do that.
Trust me; do as I ask.
It would be the beginning of the end for my family. How can I keep all my other territories in like if I let two wiseguys stand up and demand this and that, and then give it to them?
Frankie...do you respect me? Do I have your loyalty?
Always... But sometimes I don't understand. I know I'll never have your kind of brains, in big deals. But Mike, this is a street thing. And Hyman Roth in Miami is behind the Rosato Brothers.
I know.
Then why do you want me to lay down to them?
Frankie, Roth tried to have me killed. I'm sure it was him, but I don't know yet why.
Jesus Christ, Michael, then let's hit 'em now, while we still got the muscle.
This was my father's old study. When I was a kid, we had to be quiet when we played near here. When I was older, I learned many things from him here. I was happy that this house never went to strangers; first Clemenza took it over, and then you. My father taught me, in this room, never to act until you know everything that's behind things. Never. If Hyman Roth sees that I interceded with you in the Rosato Brothers' favor, he'll think his relationship with me is still sound. I'm going somewhere to meet him tomorrow. We have friends in some very important business that we're making. Do this for me; you make the peace with the Rosato Brothers on their terms. Let the word out that I forced you; you're not happy wit hit, but acquiesced, just because of me. It will get back to Hyman Roth. Do this, Frankie. You can trust me.
Sure, Mike. I'll go along.
Good.
Are you the son of Vito Corleone?
Yes.
I'm sure we all agree with our esteemed colleague. Now, Mr. Corleone, you have been advised as to your legal rights. We have had testimony from a preceding witness who states you are head of the most powerful Mafia family in this country. Are you?
No.
This witness has testified that you are personally responsible for the murder of a New York Police Captain in the year 1947 and with him a man named Virgil Sollozzo. Do you deny this?
I deny his every charge.
Is it true that in the year 1950 you devised the murder of the heads of the Five Families in New York, to assume and consolidate your nefarious power?
That is a complete falsehood.
Is it true that you own a controlling interest in three of the major hotels in Las Vegas?
That is not true. I own some stock in some of the hotels, but only very small amounts. I also own some American Telephone and IBM stock.
Mr. Corleone, do you have any hotel interests in the state of Arizona? Or any gambling interests in that state?
I do not.
Do you have interests or control over gambling and narcotics in the state of New York.
I do not.
You know my lawyer, Tom Hagen. Johnny Ola.
Sure, I remember Tom from the old days.
I just left our friend in Miami.
How is his health?
Not good.
Is there anything I can do; anything I can send?
He appreciates your concern, Michael, and your respect.
The hotel's registered owners are one Jacob Lawrence, and Sidney Barclay, both Beverly Hills attorneys. In reality it's split between the Old Lakeville Road Group from Cleveland, and our friend in Miami. He takes care of others outside the country, you know who I mean. Meyer Klingman runs the store, and does all right, but I've been instructed to tell you, that if you move him out, our friend in Miami will go along with you.
He's very kind, tell him it's appreciated. I'm sure it will be profitable all the way around.
He always makes money for his partners. One by one, our old friends are gone. Death, natural or not, prison, deported. Our friend in Miami is the only one left, because he always made money for his partners.
They asked him to sign paper to take down the markers; but he got mad; told them to wait until he was finished.
Let him gamble.
Okay. You know he doesn't have that kind of money.
Hiya, Mr. Corleone, I'm Sam Roth. Welcome to the Capri; my brother's upstairs. You wanta take a rest before you see him, or can I get you something, anything at all?
No, I'm fine.
This is it! We think it makes Vegas look like the corner crap game.
Very impressive.
Jake, Jake, come over here. Mike, I want you to meet Jake Cohen; he manages the casino for us.
It occurred to me: the police are paid to fight, and the Rebels are not.
So?
So, that occurred to me.
Sit down, this is almost over. You follow the baseball games?
Not for a few years.
I like sporting events  I really enjoy watching them in the afternoon. One of the things I love about this country. I loved baseball ever since Arnold Rothstein fixed the World Series of 1919...I heard you had some trouble.
Yes.
What a mistake; people behaving like that, with guns. It was my understanding we left all that behind. But, let me tell you, the important thing is that you're all right. Good health is the most important thing; more than success; more than power; more than money.
The incident of the other night is a nuisance that I can take care of. I came to you because I want nothing to affect our agreement; I wanted to clear everything I'm going to do with you, just in case.
You're a considerate young man.
You're a great man, Mr. Roth, I have much to learn from you.
However I can help you...
The Rosato Brothers have performed services for you in the past; I understand that they are under your protection.
We do favors for each other...
Technically, they are still under the Clemenza wing of the Corleone Family, now run by Frankie Pentangeli. After Clemenza died, the Rosatos wanted territory of their own. Pentangeli refused, and came to me, asking for permission to eliminate them. I, of course, knew of their relationship with you, and in gratitude for your help with the Tropicana matter, turned him down. Pentangeli was furious, and paid one hundred and fifty thousand dollars to have me killed. I was lucky and he was stupid. I'll visit him soon. The important thing is that nothing jeopardize our plans, yours and mine. This thing of ours, that we will build.
Nothing is more important.
Pentangeli is a dead man; do you object?
It's always bad for business; but you have no choice.
Then it's done. I must choose his replacement: it cannot be Rosato.
Of course you must keep control of your family.
I still don't speak Spanish, Michael.
It means... &quot;The Lie.&quot;
Enjoy.
I saw an interesting thing today. A man was being arrested by the Military Police; probably an urban guerrilla. Rather than be taken alive, he exploded a grenade hidden in his jacket, taking the command vehicle with him.
You have to be careful what you say in front of the others... they frighten easy. It's always been that way, most men frighten easy.
We're making a big investment in Cuba. That's my only concern.
My concern is that the three million never arrived at Batista's numbered account in Switzerland. He thinks it's because you have second thoughts about his ability to stop the rebels.
The money was sent.
Then you have to trace it. Michael, people here look at me as a reliable man. I can't afford not to be looked on as a reliable man. But you know all that; there's nothing you can learn from me. You shouldn't have to put up with a sick old man as a partner.
I wouldn't consider anyone else.
Except the President of the United States.
If only I could live to see it, kid; to be there with you. How beautifully we've done it, step by step. Here, protected, free to make our profits without the Justice Department, the FBI; ninety miles away in partnership with a friendly government. Ninety miles, just a small step, looking for a man who desperately wants to be President of the United States, and having the cash to make it possible.
You'll be there to see it; you'll be there.
This doubles my investment.
Still no word of your courier? We'll find him. But at least this will satisfy our friends here. You've been invited to the New Year reception at the Presidential Home. I understand your brother is here as well; I hope he'll come.
Six million dollars in cash is a high price for a piece of a country in the middle of a revolution.
You're a careful kid, and that's good. But look. An international dispatch on the wire service. American journalism, not propaganda. The government troops have all but eliminated the rebels. All but their radio station.
I've read it; I'm pleased that the government is doing so well. As a heavy investor, I'm pleased. How did the doctor find you?
Terrible. I'd give twice this amount to take a piss without it hurting.
Who had Frankie Pantangeli killed?
Why...the Rosato Brothers.
I know that; but who gave the go ahead.
I know it wasn't me...so that leaves you.
There was this kid that I grew up with; he was a couple years younger than me, and sort of looked up to me, you know. We did our first work together, worked our way out of the street. Things were good and we made the most of it. During prohibition, we ran molasses up to Canada and made a fortune; your father too. I guess as much as anyone, I loved him and trusted him. Later on he had an idea to make a city out of a desert stopover for G.I.'s on the way to the West Coast. That kid's name was Moe Greene, and the city he invented was Las Vegas. This was a great man; a man with vision and guts; and there isn't even a plaque or a signpost or a statue of him in that town. Someone put a bullet through his eye; no one knows who gave the order. When I heard about it I wasn't angry. I knew Moe; I knew he was headstrong, and talking loud, and saying stupid things. So when he turned up dead, I let it go, and said to myself: this is the business we've chosen. I never asked, who gave the go ahead because it had nothing to do with business.
It's Michael. How are you, Mom?
I'm alright. Will you stay home for awhile?
There are still things I have to do.
Well, we can all have a nice dinner together tonight. How are your eyes?
Alright. They bother me once in awhile. Tell me, when Pop had troubles... did he ever think, even to himself, that he had gone the wrong way; that maybe by trying to be strong and trying to protect his family, that he could... that he could... lose it instead?
You talk about the baby. She can have another baby.
No, I meant lose his family.
Your family? How can you ever lose your family?
But times are different...
Are you Klingman?
Who's asking?
Where can we talk?
Right here.
I represent the interests of the Corleone family. We make the invitation to you to tie up your affairs and be out of the hotel by Monday morning.
Who do you think you're talking to?
You said you were Klingman.
You don't come in here, talk to an owner in Las Vegas like that.
You missed my point; you are no longer an owner.
Get out of my hotel.
Anthony, Daddy's busy.
This is my boy, and my wife. Mr. John Ola of Miami.
I'm sorry, Michael. Senator Geary's here, and Mr. and Mrs. Barrett wanted to thank you before they left. Won't you join us, Mr. Ola?
Mr. Ola's just leaving, Kay. Please tell the Senator I won't be a minute.
Kay.
Yes, Michael.
How's the baby?
Sleeping inside me.
Does it feel like a boy?
Yes, Michael, it does.
I'm sorry about some of the people I had to see today. It was bad timing... but it couldn't be helped.
It made me think of what you told me once. In five years, the Corleone family will be completely legitimate. That was seven years ago.
Leave her alone! You're talking as though she has no right to be frightened when there are machine guns going off in her backyard.
Have Tom Hagen meet me in the Harbor House.
I had no idea...
I wanted to see you before you went back to Nevada. Also, the children  Michael, they're here.
Where?
In a minute. They're outside with Esther. I'm very happy for you... I suppose I knew that you're simply too smart for anyone ever to beat you.
Why don't you sit down?
I'm not going to stay long; I can't.
There are a lot of things I want to talk to you about. Things I've been thinking about  changes I want to make.
I think it's too late for changes, Michael. I promised myself I wouldn't talk about it and I've gone and spoiled it.
Why too late?
Tell me, Michael. What really happened with Pentangeli?
His brother came to help him.
I didn't even know he had a brother. And where is he now?
On a plane back to Sicily.
And that's all he had to do. Just show his face.
That's all. You see, in Sicily, in the old days... there was only one legitimate reason to kill a blood relative... only one. IF he was a traitor.
You would have killed his brother?
Kay, you've got it wrong. That kind of thing's all over, I promised you. This was between the two brothers. Years ago Frankie had a young girlfriend; he called her his cowife. That was his joke, but he meant it. He wouldn't divorce his wife... because she was a great cook. He said he girlfriend made a spaghetti sauce once and it was so terrible he knew he could never marry her. He set her up in a house in Jersey. She had to be faithful... and she had to have kids. And she did, two, a boy and a girl. He had her checked out and watched so she couldn't cheat... but the girl couldn't stand that kind of life. She begged him to let her go. He did. He gave her money and made her give up the kids. Then Frankie took them to Italy, and had them brought up by his brother Vincenzo. Where he knew they'd by safe.
When he saw his brother in the hearing room, he knew what was at stake. I don't think Vincenzo would have done it. He loves the kids, too. Omerta, Kay. Honor, silence. It had nothing to do with me. It was between those brothers.
I'll bring the children up now; they want to say goodbye.
Kay, I told you...
Goodbye, Michael.
I won't let you leave! Christ, do you think I'm going to let you leave.
Michael.
No, I don't want to hear anything. There are things between men and women that will not change; things that have been the same for thousands of years. You are my wife, and they are my children... and I love you and I will not let you leave, because you are MINE!
Oh, I do feel things for you, Michael; but now, I think it's pity. For the first time since I've known you, you seem so helpless. You held me a prisoner once; will you try again?
If that's what it takes; then yes, I will.
At this moment, I feel no love for you at all. I never thought that could happen, but it has.
We'll go back tonight. Bring the children.
You haven't heard me.
How can I let you leave; how can I let you take my children away? Don't you know me? You understand, it's an impossibility. I would never let it happen; no, never, not if it took all my strength, all my cunning. But in time, soon, you'll feel differently. You see, you'll be happy that I stopped you. I know you. You'll forget about this; you'll forget about the baby we lost... and we'll go on, you and I.
The baby I lost...
I know what it meant... and I'm prepared to make it up to you. I will make changes; I can. I CAN change; that I have learned, that I have the strength to change... And we have another child, a boy... and you'll forget the miscarriage.
It wasn't a miscarriage. And you with your cunning, couldn't you figure it out! It was an abortion; an abortion, like our marriage is an abortion, something unholy and evil. I don't want your son; I wouldn't bring another of your sons into this world. An abortion, Michael... it was a son, and I had it killed, but this must all end!
Yes.
I'm sorry, Mrs. Corleone. We're not to let you through.
I'm going to the market.
If you could just give us a list, we'll pick up anything you want.
Whose orders are these?
Mr. Hagen's, ma'am.
Senator, my client would like to read a statement for the record.
I don't think that's necessary.
Sir, my client has answered every question asked by this committee with the utmost cooperation and sincerity. He has not taken that Fifth Amendment as it was his right to do, and which because of the extreme legal complexity of this hearing, counsel advised him to do. So, I think in all fairness this committee should hear his statement and put it in the record.
Very well.
Mr. Hagen, would you kindly identify to this committee that gentleman sitting on your right hand?
Yes, sir. His name is Vincenzo Pentangeli.
Is he related to the witness?
He is, I believe, a brother.
Sir, the gentleman does not understand English. He would not in any case, take the stand. He came, at his own expense, to aid his brother in his trouble. He is not under any jurisdiction of our government and his reputation in his own country is impeccable.
The witness is excused; take him out.
Senator Kane.
This meeting is adjourned.
This committee owes an apology!
The committee is adjourned until further notice.
...and the tape will be running.
Actually, I've come with good news; the Corleone family has done you a favor.
What the hell are you talking about?
We know you're a busy man, with plenty of enemies  we saw the opportunity to do you a favor, and we did. No strings.
No strings.
You know there's a Senate Investigating Committee recently set up; we thought it would be unfortunate if they were to trace anything thoughprovoking to your name.
No one can trace anything to me; I pride myself on that.
Do you gamble?
A little; what's so thought provoking about that?
Do you owe markers?
Maybe two, three thousand dollars.
There's thirty grand worth of paid off markers  I never owed that much.
Our mistake. But what does it matter; it was our money. We don't even expect thanks.
You paid off thirty grand I never owed.
We'll keep it quiet; the people who know are trustworthy...the Committee needn't find out.
And what's the price of their not finding out.
Simple. Be friendly like us. Not hostile.
Thanks...friend.
I think I prefer to see my client privately.
The room has a bug in it.
I'd like to go outside with him, in the open air.
Everything is going to be okay, Frankie, don't worry.
Did my brother go back?
Yeah, but don't worry.
He's ten times tougher than me, my brother. He's oldfashioned.
Yeah. He wouldn't even go out to dinner. Just wanted to go home.
That's my brother. Nothing could get him away from that two mule town. He coulda been big over here  he could of had his own Family.
You're right.
Tom, what do I do now?
Frankie, you were always interested in politics, in history. I remember you talking about Hitler back in '43. We were young then.
Yeah, I still read a lot. They bring me stuff.
You were around the old timers who dreamed up how the Families should be organized, how they based it on the old Roman Legions, and called them 'Regimes'... with the 'Capos' and 'Soldiers,' and it worked.
Yeah, it worked. Those were great old days. We was like the Roman Empire. The Corleone family was like the Roman Empire.
Yeah, it was once.
The Roman Empire... when a plot against the Emperor failed, the plotters were always given a chance to let their families keep their fortunes.
Yeah, but only the rich guys. The little guys got knocked off. If they got arrested and executed, all their estate went to the Emperor. If they just went home and killed themselves, up front, nothing happened.
Yeah, that was a good break. A nice deal.
Don't worry about anything, Frankie FiveAngels.
Thanks, Tom. Thanks.
Fifteen percent skim?
Twentyfive this time.
It might show.
Mike wants it.
We've never sent this much with one courier.
Your plans are a little different this time. You skip Miami, and go straight to Geneva. It's to be deposited to this number. And it's got to be there by Monday morning, no slipup.
What's up?
No questions.
I got to ask questions, Tom, there's three million dollars cash in that pouch; Mike is gone and I have no word from him.
Al, as far as you're concerned, I'm the Don.
How do I know you haven't gone into business for yourself?
The High Court of Israel turned down his request to live as a 'returned Jew.' His passport's been invalidated except for return to the U.S. He landed in Buenos Aires yesterday, offered a gift of one million dollars if they would give him citizenship. They turned him down.
He's going to try Panama...
I'm sorry; of course, you know that.
Twothirty. That gives me time to see my boy.
Connie's outside.
Tom isn't going to sit in with us, Johnny. He only handles specific areas of the family business. Tom?
Sure, Mikey.
If you need anything, just...
Just tell Rocco I'm waiting.
There's a lot I can't tell you, Tom. I know that's upset you in the past; and you've felt that it was because of some lack of trust or confidence. But it is because I do trust you that I've kept so much secret from you. It's precisely that at this moment, you are the only one that I can completely trust. In time, you'll understand everything.
But your people... Neri... Rocco; you don't think...
No, I have confidence in their loyalty... but this is life and death, and Tom, you are my brother.
Mikey, I hoped...
No Tom, just listen. All my people are businessmen; their loyalty is based on that. One thing I learned from my father is to try to think as the people around you think...and on that basis, anything is possible. Fredo has a good heart, but he is weak...and stupid, and stupid people are the most dangerous of all. I've kept you out of things, Tom, because I've always known that your instincts were legitimate, and I wanted you to know very little of things that would make you an accomplice, for your own protection. I never blamed you for the setbacks the family took under Sonny; I know you were in a position of limited power, and you did your best to advise and caution him. What I am saying is that now, for how long I do not know, you will be the Don. If what I think has happened is true; I will leave tonight, and absolutely no one will know how to contact me. And even you are not to try to reach me unless it is absolutely necessary. I give you complete power: over Neri... Fredo, everyone. I am trusting you with the lives of my wife and children, and the future of this family, solely resting on your judgment and talent.
I've prepared this; have had it for over a month. It won't explain everything; but indicates where I will be, so in a sense, it is my life. Also, there are three tasks that must be executed immediately. Pop would have given those to Luca  You knew Pop as well as anyone, act as though you were him. It discusses Kay as well; that will be the most difficult. The men who tried to kill me tonight, will never leave the estate.
Will we...be able to get who ordered it out of them?
I don't think so. Unless I'm very wrong...they're already dead. Killed by someone inside...very frightened that they botched it. That's why I am going to disappear in a few minutes, and leave everything to you.
But if you're wrong...
If I'm wrong...
Do you think they have somebody to back up Cicci?
No. But if they do have somebody, you'll do three years for perjury if you give them so much as a wrong middle name.
Did the boy get something from me for Christmas?
I took care of it.
What was it, so I'll know.
A little care he can ride in with an electric motor.
Where's my brother?
Roth got out on a private boat. He's in a hospital in Miami. Had a stroke but he's recovered okay. Bussetta's dead.
I asked about Fredo?
The new government arrested him, held him for a couple of days with a lot of the other casino people, including Roth's brother, Sam. The American Embassy arranged flights for citizens; I'm not sure, but I think he's somewhere in New York.
I want you to reach Fredo. I know he's scared, but have one of our people reach him. Assure him that there will be no reprisals. Tell him that I know Roth misled him.
My information is that Fredo thought it was a kidnapping. Roth assured him nothing would happen to you.
They can come in now.
Wait... there's something else.
Alright.
Go on, tell me.
Kay had a miscarriage; she lost the baby.
Was it a boy or a girl?
Mike, at three and a half...
What is it, can't you give me straight answers anymore!
It was a boy.
And Kay...she's all right?
She took the Senate Investigation worse.
Does she blame it on me? The baby?
I don't know.
How did they get their hands on Pentangeli?
Roth engineered it, Michael. He made Pentangeli think you hit him. Deliberately letting him get off alive. Then the New York detectives turned Frankie over to the FBI. My informants say he was half dead and scared stiff  talking out loud that you had turned on him and tried to kill him. Anyway, they had him on possession, dealing in heroin, murder one and a lot more. There's no way we can get to him and you've opened yourself to five points of perjury.
He says he doesn't know anything, and I believe him. Roth played this one beautifully.
Alright. I'm going to go outside and talk to Fredo.
Sit down, Tom. Have you heard about our friend and partner, Mr. Hyman Roth?
I know he's in Israel.
They won't take him; not for a million, not for ten million.
His medical condition is reported as... &quot;terminal.&quot;
He's been dying of the same heart attack for twenty years.
That plane goes to Miami...
I want it met.
Mike, it's impossible. He'll be met by the Internal Revenue; the Customs Service, and half the FBI.
I don't like it when you use the word impossible; nothing is impossible...
Mike, it would be like trying to kill the President; there's no way we can get to him.
I'm surprised at you, Tom. If there's anything certain; certain in life; if history has taught us anything, it's that you can kill... ANYBODY. But perhaps your relucatance is because you've come to tell me that you're moving your family to Vegas, that you've been offered the VicePresidency of the Houstan Hotels there. Or weren't you going to tell me at all?
Are you so hungry for traitors; do you want to find them everywhere?
They are everywhere!
I turned Houstan down; I didn't see why I should tell you about an offer I turned down. Are you sure, Mikey? Are you sure of what we're doing; what we'll gain; what does the family gain? Forget that, Mike; I already know the answer.
I know you do, Tom. Then I can count on you to help me do the things I have to do. If not, call Houstan, and become a VicePresident. Take your family and your mistress and move them to Las Vegas.
Why do you hurt me, Michael? I've always been loyal to you.
Good. Then you're staying.
I'm staying. Don't ever enjoy the cruel part of all this; Sonny never listened to me about that. Now, explain everything to me.
Rocco!
I know. I went down to the Barrett house. But she's gone. They drove her and the kids to North Tahoe airport.
Goddamn it, where were you?
I was in my house. Willy tried, but it would have taken some strongarm to stop her, and he figured you wouldn't want that.
She took a flight to San Francisco. We figure she's going to connect to New Hampshire; her parents' place.
I can't let him down.
Me too, Tom?
Yeah, give me a minute.
Where's my wife?
With Mama, putting the baby to sleep. Francesca's very happy. Michael was kind to her. She idolizes him. The children are all out in the speedboat. I'm going to my house.
He doesn't want my help any more. He doesn't need it.
We don't know that's true, he never said that.
I can feel it in the way he talks to me.
Just now when Johnny Ola showed up, he asked me to leave them alone. Ola is Hyman Roth's Sicilian contact. I was on the inside of ten, twenty meetings with him. But today Mike asked me to leave, like an outsider.
Talk to him. Tell him how you feel.
It's as though he blames me for the ground the family lost when I was Consigliere to Sonny.
Hello?
She's gone, Tom.
What do you mean gone?
The Barretts from Rubicon Bay came by in a new speedboat. Rocco tried to say she wasn't in, but Kay spotted them and asked if they would take her and the kids for a ride. That was three hours ago.
Why didn't someone tell me!
I wanted to tell you alone; your wife doesn't know what's going on.
You're going to talk to him now.
Yes.
Will you tell him?
I don't know.
It's Michael's request...for your safety. We can send out for anything you need.
I'm supposed to stay in my house.
Within the compound will be fine.
I was supposed to take the children to New England next week.
That's off now.
I'm going to see my parents.
Kay, Michael didn't tell me a lot; and what he did tell me, I can't repeat. But the responsibility for you and the kids was the most important thing he left me with.
How long does this go on?
I don't know. I'm sorry, Kay...
Am I a prisoner?
That's not the way we look at it.
... He said he had shot his Grandfather with a gun, and then he died in the garden. And he asked me... he asked me, Tom, if that meant now his father would shoot him out of... revenge. How does a four year old boy learn the word... 'revenge'?
Kay... Kay...
What kind of a family is this... are we human beings? He knows his Father killed his Uncle Carlo. He heard Connie.
You don't know that's true. But Kay, just for the sake of an argument, let's assume it is, I'm not saying it is, remember, but... What if I gave you what might be some justification for what he did... or rather some possible justification for what he possibly did.
That's the first time I've seen the lawyer side of you, Tom. It's not your best side.
Okay, just hear me out. What if Carlo had been paid to help get Sonny killed? What if his beating of Connie that time was a deliberate plot to get Sonny out into the open? Then what? And what if the Don, a great man, couldn't bring himself to do what he had to do, avenge his son's death by killing his daughter's husband? What if that, finally, was too much for him, and he made Michael his successor, knowing that Michael would take that load off his shoulders, would take that guilt?
He's not the same as when I met him.
If he were, he'd be dead by now. You'd be a widow. You'd have no problem.
What the hell does that mean? Come on, Tom, speak out straight once in your life. I know Michael can't, but you're not Sicilian, you can tell a woman the truth; you can treat her like an equal, a fellow human being.
If you told Michael what I've told you today, I'm a dead man.
When is it finally over? I want it to be over before my baby is born.
I don't know. I hope soon; but it's not over yet, and that's why you and the kids have to come back to me.
I know what you are thinking, Vitone, but you don't understand yet how things are. Fanucci is of the Black Hand. Everyone in the neighborhood pays him, even my father.
He's an Italian?
A pig of a Neaponitan.
Why? Why does he bother other Italians?
Because he knows them; he knows they have no one to protect them. Vitone? What do you think of my angel?
Beautiful.
Beautiful.
For you, she is beautiful. For me, there is only my wife!
I know. That's why I brought you with me!
I bet you can't guess what happened?
What?
Some guys from Ninth Avenue jumped Fanucci today; slit his throat from ear to ear.
No, I didn't know. Is he dead?
Nah. Those guys aren't murderers. They wanted to scare him, that's all. Make him look bad.
In Sicily, when you attack a man, you had better finish him.
I wish they had. He takes fifty dollars a week from my father's cash drawer. But you can't kill a man like Fanucci.
Why?
Because he's what we say... &quot;connected&quot;... You wait, see what happens to those guys from Ninth Avenue.
What did I tell you. The one who cut him was found in an alley. And the family of the others paid Fanucci all their savings to make him forswear his vengeance.
And he agreed?
He took the money. Now he wants double from everybody in the neighborhood, including Papa.
The 'patrone' is here.
Chi?
Roberto. Who owns the 'ratholes.'
Hey Mike, what can I say?
Forget it, just go take care of her.
Hiya, Freddie Corleone.
Mio fratello.
Oh, 'scuse me.
It's all right. He stays with me all the time.
Oh. Mikey, what's up? I'm totally in the dark.
We're making an investment in Havana.
Great, Havana's great. Lots of activity in Havana! Anybody I know here. FiveAngels? Anybody?
Johnny Ola... Hyman Roth.
I never met them.
Pentangeli's dead. He was ambushed by the Rosato Brothers. Didn't you know that?
No. No, I didn't. Who tells me anything? I been kept in the dark so long, I'm getting used to it.
I want you to help me, Fredo.
That's what I'm here for.
Tonight I want to relax with you. The Senator from Nevada is here with some people from Washington. I want to show them a good time in Havana.
Count on me; that's my specialty.
I'd like to come along. There's been a lot of strain, and I've been cooped up in this room for three days.
Me and you, great! Gimme an hour to wash my face and do my research and we'll have these Washington suckers right where you want 'em. Poor Frankie FiveAngels. He always wanted to die in bed...with a broad.
Jeeze, it's great you came along, Mike... You know, we've never spent a night out on the town together. I always thought you looked down on me for liking a good time.
I never looked down on you, Fredo. You don't look down at a brother.
Mike, I got something special up my sleeve for these boys. You ever hear of &quot;Superman?&quot; And I don't mean the comic book.
No.
Wait'll you see!
Mikey, why would they ever hit poor old Frankie FiveAngels? I loved that ole sonuvabitch. I remember when he was just a 'button,' when we were kids. We used to put bedsheets on our heads, you know, like we were ghosts. An' ole Frankie come peek into our room, we'd jump up, and he'd always pretend like he was really scared. You remember?
It was hard to have him killed.
You? What do you mean you, I thought...
It was hard to have him killed.
You? What do you mean you, I thought...
It was Frankie tried to have me hit.
No. I mean, are you sure?
You know otherwise, Freddie?
Me? NO, no, I don't know anything. Fellas! You're all falling asleep. We got to see Superman.
How is your wife, Fredo...your marriage?
You know her; drives me crazy, one minute she's a popsicle, the next she's all vinegar. Sometimes I think... I think  I should a married someone, like you did. To have kids, to have a family.
&quot;Yo soy un hombre sincero...&quot; I am a sincere man, From the land of the palms...
What's that?
The song. Are you sincere with me, Fredo?
Sincere. What are you talking about, of course I'm sincere with you, Mike.
Then I'm going to confide in you; trust you with something.
Mike, are you crazy, I'm your brother.
Tonight we've been invited to a reception at the Presidential Palace; to bring in the New Year. You and I will go in a special car that's being sent. They'll have cocktails... then dinner, and a reception with the President. When it's over, it will be suggested that you take Questadt and his friends from Washington to spend the night with some women. I'll go home alone in the car; and before I reach the hotel, I'll be assassinated.
...Who?
The same man who tried in Nevada... Hyman Roth, not Pentangeli.
But, you told me yourself...
It was never Pentangeli... I've always known that. It was Roth all along. He talks to me as a son; as his successor, but the old man thinks he'll live forever.
What do you want me to do?
To go tonight, with me, as though we know nothing. I've already made my move.
What is it? Can I help?
The old man will never bring in the New Year.
Fredo. Where are you going?
Nowhere, Mike. I wanted to get a refill. How about you?
I don't have a lot to say, Michael.
We have time.
I was kept pretty much in the dark. I didn't know all that much.
What about now, is there anything you can help me out with?
I know they get Pentangeli, that's all I know.
I didn't know it was a hit. I swear to you I didn't know. Johnny Ola contacted me in Beverly Hills  said he wanted to talk. He said you and Roth were in on some big deal, and there was a place for me in it if I could help them out. They said you were being tough on the negotiation, and if they had a little bit of help, they could close it fast and it would be good for you.
And you believed that story.
He said there was something good in it for me...me on my own.
I've always taken care of you.
Taken care of me. Mike, you're my kid brother, and you take care of my. Did you ever think of that. Ever once? Send Fredo off to do this, send Fredo to take care of that... take care of some little unimportant night club here, and there; pick somebody up at the airport. Mike, I'm your older brother; I was stepped over!
It's the way Pop wanted it.
It wasn't the way I wanted it! I can handle things. I'm not dumb Christ, not like everyone says. I'm smart; and I want respect.
There's nothing more you can tell me about this investigation?
The lawyer; Questadt, he belongs to Roth.
You're nothing to me now, Fredo; not a brother, not a friend, I don't want to know you, or what happens to you. I don't want to see you at the hotels, or near my home. When you visit our Mother, I want to know a day in advance, so I won't be there. Do you understand?
Who's that? Pentangeli? Frankie &quot;FiveAngels&quot;...thought you were never coming West.
Gotta check up on my boys. Hey, what's with the food? Some kid in a white jacket brings me a ritz cracker with some chopped liver. 'Canapes,' he says. I say, 'Can a peas, my ass, that's a ritz cracker with chopped liver.' Go get me a salami sandwich and a glass of wine or I'll send you and your white jacket to the dry cleaners!
Gee, Frankie, it's good to see you. Reminds me of old times.
You remember Willy Cicci, don't you, Freddie? We was all together with the old man Clemenza in Brooklyn... before...uh...
We were all upset about that.
That's what I'm here to talk to your brother about. What's with him, I got to get a letter of introduction to have a 'sitdown'?
C'mon, I see what I can do.
Ten to one shot, you said. Ten to one shot in my favor, and I lose.
Get a good night's sleep. We got a new suit, new shirt, new tie, and I'm going to shave you myself. Tomorrow we want you to look respectable for fifty million of your fellow Americans.
My life won't be worth a nickel after tomorrow.
We have a special home for you for the rest of your life. Nobody gets near you. You're not going any place.
Yeah, some deal I made.
Why'd you do it, Frankie? After all these years, why'd you turn against him?
I didn't turn against nobody; he turned against me.
Ready, Frankie.
Let's go.
Otherwise the police will come to see you and your wife and children will be dishonored and destitute. Of course, if my information as to your gains is incorrect, I'll dip my beak just a little. Just a little, but no less than one hundred dollars, and don't try to deceive me, eh paisan?
My two friends have my share of the money. I'll have to speak to them after we deliver these to the wholesaler.
You tell your friends I expect them to let me wet my beak in the same manner. Don't be afraid to tell them. Clemenza and I know each other well, he understands these things. Let yourself be guided by him. He has more experience in these matters.
You must understand, this is all new to me...
I understand...
But thank you for speaking to me as a Godfather.
You're a good fellow.
I think there's only two hundred dollars under my hat. I'm right. Only two hundred dollars.
I'm a little short. I've been out of work. Let me owe you the money for a few weeks.
Ah, you're a sharp young fellow. How is it I've never noticed you before You're too quiet for your own interest. I could find some work for you to do that would be very profitable. No hard feelings, eh? If I can ever do you a service let me know. You've done a good job for yourself tonight.
Don Francesco. You murdered my husband, because he would not bend. And his oldest son Paolo, because he swore revenge. But Vitone is only nine, and dumbwitted. He never speaks.
I'm not afraid of his words.
He is weak.
He will grow strong.
The child cannot harm you.
He will be a man, and then he will come for revenge.
Would you like some?
No, Dad.
Now what is this talk about joining the army? Eh?
It's not talk; I'm doing it.
You would risk your life for strangers?
Not for strangers; for my country.
Anyone not in your family, is a stranger. Believe me, when trouble comes, your country won't take care of you.
That's how it was in the old world, Pop, but this is not Sicily.
I know. I know, Michael. It's Christmas, your brothers and sister are all here  we are happy. Let's not spoil this. Go your own way, but when you are ready, come to me the way a son should. I have hopes for you...
Honey! Wait a minute; let's go for a drive.
I just had a drive; besides, I want to see my brotherinlaw Michael.
Yeah, but I don't want him to see you.
Goddamn bitch.
Relax, Freddie honey. Come dance with me.
Listen, Michael's got a lot of nice people here. Friends of Kay's. He'll never forgive me if you ruin his party.
I hate to see you cringe in front of him. How come you're so scared of your own kid brother?
He's the head of the family.
What's 'cent' Anne?'
A hundred years...it's a toast.
I wanta dance...whatsa matter with that?
Dancing is alright; you're falling on the floor.
Whatsamatter, you don't want me to dance with him 'cause he's a man!
Deanna, I'm going to belt you right in the mouth!
These Eyeties are really crazy when it comes to their wives.
Deanna, will you get back into the house!
I'm getting out of here I said; these guys all have guns!
I don't want to stay here...
Mike, what can I do, she's a hysterical woman...
How are you, honey? You've met Merle, haven't you. He was with me in Vegas.
I saw him with you.
We're going to Europe next week. I want to get passage booked on the Queen.
Why do you come to me? Why don't you go to a travel agent?
The ink on your divorce isn't dry. Your children see you on weekends; your oldest boy, Michael Francis... was in some trouble with the Reno police over some petty theft that you don't even know about.
Michael...
You fly around the world with lazy young men who don't have any love for you, and use you like a whore.
You're not my father!
Then why do you come to me?
Because I need MONEY!
Connie, I want to be reasonable with you. You have a house here, with us. You can live here with your kids...and you won't be deprived of anything. I don't know much about Merle; I don't know what he does for a living; what he lives on. Why don't you tell him marriage is really out of the question; and that you can't see him any more. He'll understand. But if you disobey me, and marry this pimp...it would disappoint me.
It was my father's money; and I'm entitled to what I need. Where is Tom Hagen?
Is Kay coming?
No.
Michael, Fredo's in the house with Mama. He asked for you, and Tom said he couldn't see you.
Tom is right.
Kids, why don't you go outside for a while?
I want to talk to you, Michael.
The children can stay.
I hated you for so long, Michael; for so many years. I think I did things to myself, to hurt myself, so that you would know  and you would be hurt too. But I understand you now; I think I do. You were being strong for all of us, like Papa was. And I forgive you, and want to be close to you now. Can't you forgive Fredo; he's so sweet, and helpless without you.
Constanzia. We expected you last week; we sent the car to pick you up at the airport last week.
I know, it was chaos; but anyway, here I am one week late. This is for my Mama. You remember Merle?
Yes, thank you.
How are the kids?
Well, thank you, they asked for you all week.
I got surprises for everybody!
Bought at the airport.
This is swell. Where's Michael? I've got things to get straight with him and I can't wait on line.
You go see your children first, and then you wait to see your brother like everybody else.
It means we should all live happily for one hundred years. The family. If my Father were alive, it'd be true.
Connie.
Merle, have you met my sisterin law Deanna?
What took so long?
She couldn't decide.
Do you think he'd be satisfied with the two hundred dollars? I think he would.
That scarfaced bastard will find out what we got from the wholesaler. He won't take a dime less than three hundred dollars.
What if we don't pay?
You know his friends...real animals. And his connections with the police. Sure he'd like us to tell him our plans so he can set us up for the cops and earn their gratitude. Then they would owe him a favor; that's how he operates. We'll have to pay. Three hundred, are we agreed?
What can we do?
Vitone! Our driver has drunk too much wine.
He's going to kill Fanucci.
Then, after that, what? Joe 'Little Knife' Pisani; Willie Bufalino, maybe, Mr. Maranzalla himself, c'mon!
I have a friend who has a fine rug. Maybe your wife would like it.
We have no money for a rug.
No. He would give it away. I know how to repay a consideration.
Your friend lives in a fine building.
Oh yes, the very best.
They say Fanucci has a license from Maranzalla himself to work this neighborhood.
If you like, why not give me fifty dollars each to pay Fanucci. I guarantee he will accept that amount from me.
Fanucci is not connected; he is alone.
What? You read it in the papers?
This man informs to the police; this man allows his vengeance to be bought off... No, he is alone.
Who is the greatest man you can think of?
Go on, answer him when he talks to you. Tell him: Columbus, Marconi... Garibaldi.
Mr. Cicci. From the year 1927 to the present time, you were an employee of the &quot;Genco Olive Oil Company.&quot;
That's right.
But in actuality, you were a member of the Corleone Crime organization.
The Corleone Family, Senator. We called it, &quot;The Family.&quot;
What position did you occupy?
At first, like everybody, I was a soldier.
Are you alright?
Yes.
Did you like your party?
I got lots of presents.
Do you like them?
I didn't know the people who gave them to me.
They were friends.
Did you see my present for you?
No, where is it?
On your pillow.
I'm leaving very early tomorrow, before you wake up.
I know. How long will you be gone?
Just a few days.
Will you take me?
I can't.
Why do you have to go?
To do business.
I can help you.
Some day you will.
You've grown so tall... so tall in the last year. You're much taller than me.
I was taller than you when I was fourteen.
Sit down. Your Aunt Connie and I waited for you to have some lunch, but now it's all dried out.
I'm not hungry.
Well, that's alright... alright. Good. You'll graduate in another year, isn't that right? You know... I never finished college. I was a good student, but I never finished. Of course, there was a war then.
They didn't get your contract. I filed it before I left.
They didn't get my contracts.
Theyexcuse me...
They didn't get the contracts.
Did they...
They got, listen to me...
The...
Listen to me: They got some of them.
Some of them...
They took some of the con...
...some of the contracts...Lingk. James Lingk. I closed...
You closed him yesterday.
Yes.
It went down. I filed it.
You did?
Yes.
Then I'm over the fucking top and you owe me a Cadillac.
I...
Where are you going?
To the restaura...what do you fucking...?
Aren't you going out today?
With what? With what, John, they took the leads...
I have the stuff from last year's...
Oh. Oh. Oh, your "nostalgia" file, they's fine. No. Swell. 'Cause I don't have to...
...you want to go out today...?
'Cause I don't have to eat this month. No. Okay. Give 'em to me... Fucking Mitch and Murray going to shit a br...what am I going to do all...
Patel? Ravidam Patel? How am I going to make a living on thses deadbeat wogs? Where did you get this, from the morgue?
If you don't want it, give it back.
I don't "want" it, if you catch my drift.
I'm giving you three leads. You...
What's the fucking point in any case...? What's the point. I got to argue with you, I got to knock heads with the cops, I'm busting my balls, sell you dirt to fucking deadbeats money in the mattress, I come back you can't even manage to keep the contracts safe, I have to go back and close them again...What the fuck am I wasting my time, fuck this shit. I'm going out and reclose last week's...
The word from Murray is: leave them alone. If we need a new signature he'll go out himself, he'll be the president, just come in, from out of town...
Okay, okay, okay, gimme this shit. Fine.
Three? I count two.
Three.
Patel? Fuck you. Fuckin' Shiva handed him a million dollars, told him "sign the deal," he wouldn't sign. And Vishnu, too. Into the bargain. Fuck that, John. You know your business, I know mine. Your business is being an asshole, and I find out whose fucking cousin you are, I'm going to go to him and figure out a way to have your ass... fuck youI'll wait for the new leads.
Yes.
Mr. Lingk and I are going to...
Yes. Please. Please. The police can be...
We had a slight burglary last night.
It was nothing...I was assuring Mr. Lingk...
Mr. Lingk. James Lingk. Your contract went out. Nothing to...
John...
Your contract went out to the bank.
...Mr. Williamson...
Your check as cashed yesterday afternoon. And we're completely insured, as you know, in any case.
...I wouldn't worry about it.
Well I'm going to worry about it, and so are you, so shut up and listen. I GET HIS ACTION. My stuff is mine, whatever he gets for himself, I'm talking half. You put me in with him.
Fuckin' asshole.
What, they beat you with a rubber bat?
Cop couldn't find his dick two hands and a map. Anyone talks to this guy's an asshole...
You going to turn State's?
Fuck you, Ricky. I ain't going out today. I'm going home. I'm going home because nothing's accomplished here...Anyone talks to this guy is...
Guess what the Machine did?
Fuck the Machine.
Mountain View. Eight units.
Fuckin' cop's got no right talk to me that way. I didn't rob the place...
You hear what I said?
Yeah. He closed a deal.
Eight units. Mountain View.
You did that?
Fuck you.
Guess who?
When...
You just this morning...
Harriet and blah blah Nyborg.
We haven't got a lead...
Why not?
They took 'em...
It means, Dave, you haven't closed a good one in a month, none of my business, you want to push me to answer you. And so you haven't got a contract to get stolen or so forth.
You have a mean streak in you, Ricky, you know that...?
Bring that shit up. Of my volume. You were on a bad one and I brought it up to you you'd harbor it. You'd harbor it a long long while. And you'd be right.
Who said "Fuck the Machine"?
"Fuck the Machine"? "Fuck the Machine"? What is this. Courtesy class...? You're fucked, Rickare you fucking nuts? You're hot, so you think you're the ruler of this place...?! You want to...
Is that what I did? Dave? I humiliated you? My God...I'm sorry...
Sittin' on top of the world, sittin' on top of the world, everything's fucking peachfuzz...
Oh, and I don't get a moment to spare for a bustout humanitarian down on his luck lately. Fuck you, Dave, you know you got a big mouth, and you make a close the whole place stinks with your farts for a week. "How much you just ingested," what a big man you are, "Hey, let me buy you a pack of gum.
I'll show you how to chew it." Your pal closes, all that comes out of your mouth is bile, how fucked up you are...
Who's my pal...? And what are you, Ricky, huh, what are you, Bishop Sheean? Who the fuck are you, Mr. Slick...? What are you, friend to the workingman? Big deal. Fuck you, you got the memory a fuckin' fly. I never liked you.
What is this, your farewell speech?
I'm going home.
Your farewell to the troops?
I'm not going home. I'm going to Wisconsin.
Have a good trip.
And fuck you. Fuck the lot of you. Fuck you all.
...all train compartments smell vaguely of shit. It gets so you don't mind it. That's the worst thing that I can confess. You know how long it took me to get there? A long time. When you die you're going to regret the things you don't do. You think you're queer...? I'm going to tell you something: we're all queer. You think that you're a thief? So what? You get befuddled by a middleclass morality...? Get shut of it. Shut it out. You cheated on your wife...? You did it, live with it. You fuck little girls, so be it. There's an absolute morality? May be. And then what? If you think there is, then be that thing. Bad people go to hell? I don't think so. If you think that, act that way. A hell exists on earth? Yes. I won't live in it. That's me. You ever take a dump made you feel you'd just slept for twelve hours...?
Did I...?
Yes.
I don't know.
Or a piss...? A great meal fades in reflection. Everything else gains. You know why? 'Cause it's only food. This shit we eat, it keeps us going. But it's only food. The great fucks that you may have had. What do you remember about them?
What do I...?
Yes.
Mmmm...
I don't know. For me, I'm saying, what is is, it's probably not the orgasm. Some broads, forearms on your neck, something her eyes did. There was a sound she made...or, me, lying, in the, I'll tell you: me lying in bed; the next day she brought me caf au lait. She gives me a cigarette, my balls feel like concrete. Eh? What I'm saying, what is our life? It's looking forward or it's looking back. And that's our life. That's it. Where is the moment? And what is it that we're afraid of? Loss. What else? The bank closes. We get sick, my wife died on a plane, the stock market collapsed...the house burnt down...what of these happen...? None on 'em. We worry anyway. What does this mean? I'm not secure. How can I be secure? Through amassing wealth beyond all measure? No. And what's beyond all measure? That's a sickness. That's a trap. There is no measure. Only greed. How can we act?
Money? If that's what it signifies to you. Security? Comfort? All it is is THINGS THAT HAPPEN TO YOU. That's all it is. How are they different? Some poor newly married guy gets run down by a cab. Some busboy wins the lottery. All it is, it's a carnival. What's special...what draws us? We're all different. We're not the same. We are not the same. Hmmm. It's been a long day. What are you drinking?
Gimlet.
Well, let's have a couple more. My name is Richard Roma, what's yours?
Lingk. James Lingk.
James. I'm glad to meet you. I'm glad to meet you, James. I want to show you something. It might mean nothing to you...and it might not.
I've got to talk to you.
Jim! What are you doing here? Jim Lingk, D. Ray Morton...
I've got to talk to you...
I've got to get Ray to O'Hare... Come on, let's hustle... John! Call American Express in Pittsburgh for Mr. Morton, will you, tell them he's on the one o'clock.
It's funny, you know, you get a picture of the CorporationType Company Man, all business...this man, no. We'll go out to his home sometime. Let's see. Tomorrow. No. Tomorrow, I'm in L.A....Monday...I'll take you to lunch, where would you like to go?
My wife...
My wife said I have to cancel the deal.
It's a common reaction, Jim. I'll tell you what it is, and I know that that's why you married her. One of the reasons is prudence. It's a sizable investment. One thinks twice...it's also something women have. It's just a reaction to the size of the investment. Monday, if you'd invite me for dinner again... This woman can cook...
Monday.
She called the consumer...the attorney, I don't know. The attorney gen...they said we have three days...
Who did she call?
I don't know, the attorney gen... the...some consumer office, um...
Why did she do that, Jim?
I don't know. They said we have three days. They said we have three days.
Three days.
To...you know.
No, I don't know. Tell me.
To change our minds.
Of course you have three days.
Jim, Jim, you saw my book...I can't, you saw my book...
But we have to before Monday. To get our money ba...
Three business days. They mean three business days.
Wednesday, Thursday, Friday.
I don't understand.
That's what they are. Three business...I wait till Monday, my time limit runs out.
You don't count Saturday.
I'm not.
No, I'm saying you don't include Saturday...in your three days. It's not a business day.
But I'm not counting it. Wednesday. Thursday. Friday. So it would have elapsed.
What would have elapsed?
If we wait till Mon...
When did you write the check?
Yest...
What was yesterday?
Tuesday.
And when was that check cashed?
I don't know.
What was the earliest it could have been cashed?
Today. Today. Which, in any case, it was not, as there were a couple of points on the agreement I wanted to go over with you in any case.
The check wasn't cashed?
I just called downtown, and it's on their desk.
I'm very sorry, Jimmy. I apologize to you.
It's not me, it's my wife.
What is?
I told you.
Tell me again.
What's going on here?
Tell me again. Your wife.
I told you.
You tell me again.
She wants her money back.
We're going to speak to her.
No. She told me "right now."
We'll speak to her, Jim...
She won't listen.
No, no. That's just something she "said." We don't have to do that.
She told me I have to.
No, Jim.
I do. If I don't get my money back...
I'm...
Where are you going...? This is me...This is Ricky, Jim. Jim, anything you want, you want it, you have it. You understand? This is me. Something upset you. Sit down, now sit down. You tell me what it is. Am I going to help you fix it? You're goddamned right I am. Sit down. Tell you something...? Sometimes we need someone from outside. It's...no, sit down...Now talk to me.
I can't regotiate.
What does that mean?
That...
...what, what, say it. Say it to me...
I...
What...?
I...
What...? Say the words.
I don't have the power. I said it.
What power?
The power to negotiate.
To negotiate what? To negotiate what?
This.
What, "this"?
The deal.
The "deal," forget the deal. Forget the deal, you've got something on your mind, Jim, what is it?
I can't talk to you, you met my wife, I...
What? What? What, Jim: I tell you what, let's get out of here...let's go get a drink.
She told me not to talk to you.
Let's...no one's going to know, let's go around the corner and we'll get a drink.
She told me I had to get back the check or call the State's att...
Forget the deal, Jimmy. Forget the deal...you know me. The deal's dead. Am I talking about the deal? That's over. Please. Let's talk about you. Come on. Come on. Come on, Jim. I want to tell you something. Your life is your own. You have a contract with your wife. You have certain things you do jointly, you have a bond there...and there are other things. Those things are yours. You needn't feel ashamed, you needn't feel that you're being untrue...or that she would abandon you if she knew. This is your life. Yes. Now I want to talk to you because you're obviously upset and that concerns me. Now let's go. Right now.
What?
And the check is...
What did I tell you? What did I say about the three days...?
What are the police doing?
It's nothing.
What are the police doing here...?
You cashed the check?
Not to my knowledge, no...
Get the chalk. Get the chalk...get the chalk! I closed 'em! I closed the cocksucker. Get the chalk and put me on the board. I'm going to Hawaii! Put me on the Cadillac board, Williamson! Pick up the fuckin' chalk. Eight units. Mountain View...
You sold eight Mountain View?
You bet your ass. Who wants to go to lunch? Who wants to go to lunch? I'm buying. Eightytwo fucking grand. And twelve grand in commission. John. On fucking deadbeat magazine subscription leads.
Eight units?
That's right.
Shelly...!
Hey, big fucking deal. Broke a bad streak...
Williamson, get on the phone, call Mitch...
They took the phones...
They...
When?
Last night, this morning.
They took the leads?
Mmm.
Just now.
Guess who?
Fuck you, Dave...
"You have to believe in yourself... you"look"alright...?"
Fuck you care...?
"I want to tell you something, Harriet..."
How was it...?
From the store.
Fuck her...
"What we have to do is admit to ourself that we see that opportunity...and take it. And that's it." And we sit there. I got the pen out...
"Always be closing..."
That's what I'm saying. The old ways. The old ways...convert the motherfucker...sell him...sell him... make him sign the check. The...Bruce, Harriet...the kitchen, blah: they got their money in government bonds...I say fuck it, we're going to go the whole route. I plat it out eight units. Eighty two grand. I tell them. "This is now. This is that thing that you've been dreaming of, you're going to find that suitcase on the train, the guy comes in the door, the bag that's full of money. This is it, Harriett..."
Harriett...
Bruce..."I don't want to fuck around with you. I don't want to go round this, and pussyfoot around the thing, you have to look back on this. I do, too. I came here to do good for you and me. For both of us. Why take an interim position?
The only arrangement I'll accept is full investment. Period. The whole eight units. I know that you're saying 'be safe,' I know what you're saying. I know if I left you to yourselves, you'd say 'come back tomorrow,' and when I walked out that door, you'd make a cup of coffee...you'd sit down...and you'd think 'let's be safe...' and not to disappoint me you'd go one unit or maybe two, because you'd become scared because you'd met possibility. But this won't do, and that's not the subject..." Listen to this, I actually said this. "That's not the subject of our evening together." Now I handed them the pen. I held it in my hand. I turned the contract, eight units eightytwo grand. "Now I want you to sign." I sat there. Five minutes. Then, I sat there, Ricky, twentytwo minutes by the kitchen clock. Twentytwo minutes by the kitchen clock. Not a word, not a motion. What am I thinking? "My arm's getting tired?" No. I did it. I did it. Like in the old says, Ricky. Like I was taught... Like, like, like I used to do...I did it.
Like you taught me...
Bullshit, you're...No. That's raw... well, if I did, then I'm glad I did. I, well. I locked on them. All on them, nothing on me. All my thoughts are on them. I'm holding the last thought that I spoke: "Now is the time." They signed, Ricky. It was great. It was fucking great. It was like they wilted all at once. No gesture...nothing. Like together.
You closed 'em today?
Yes. I did. This morning. What I'm saying to you: things can change. You see? This is where you fuck up, because this is something you don't know. You can't look down the road. And see what's coming. Might be someone else, John. It might be someone new, eh? Someone new. And you can't look back. 'Cause you don't know history. You ask them. When we were at Rio Rancho, who was top man? A month...? Two months...? Eight months in twelve for three years in a row. You know what that means? You know what that means? Is that luck? Is that some, some, some purloined leads? That's skill. That's talent, that's, that's...
...yes...
...and you don't remember. 'Cause you weren't around. That's cold calling. Walk up to the door. I don't even know their name. I'm selling something they don't even want. You talk about soft sell... before we had a name for it...before we called it anything, we did it.
That's right, Shel.
And, and, and, I did it. And I put a kid through school. She...and...Cold calling, fella. Door to door. But you don't know. You don't know. You never heard of a streak. You never heard of "marshaling your sales force..." What are you, you're a secretary, John. Fuck you. That's my message for you. Fuck you and kiss my ass. You don't like it, I'll go talk to Jerry Graff. Period. Fuck you. Put me on the board. And I want three worthwhile leads today and I don't want any bullshit about them and I want 'em close together 'cause I'm going to hit them all today. That's all I have to say to you.
He's right, Williamson.
Oh, Christ.
The hell with him. We'll go to lunch, the leads won't be up for...
You're a client. I just sold you five waterfront Glengarry Farms. I rub my head, throw me the cue "Kenilworth."
What is it?
Kenilw...
I own the property, my mother owns the property, I put her into it. I'm going to show you on the plats. You look when you get home A3 through A14 and 26 through 30. You take your time and if you still feel.
No, Mr. Roma. I don't need the time, I've made a lot of investments in the last...
Glad to meet you.
I just put Jim into Black Creek...are you acquainted with...
No...Black Creek. Yes. In Florida?
Yes.
I wanted to speak with you about...
Well, we'll do that this weekend.
My wife told me to look into...
Beautiful. Beautiful rolling land. I was telling Jim and Jinny, Ray, I want to tell you something. You, Ray, you eat in a lot of restaurants. I know you do...
Mr. Morton's with American Express... he's... I can tell Jim what you do...?
Sure.
Ray is director of all European sales and services for American Ex... But I'm saying you haven't had a meal until you've tasted...I was at the Lingks' last...as a matter of fact, what was that service feature you were talking about...?
Which...
"Home Cooking"...what did you call it, you said it...it was a tag phrase that you had,,,
Uh...
Home...
Home cooking...
The monthly interview...?
Oh! For the magazine...
Yes. Is this something that I can talk ab...
Well, it isn't coming out until the February iss...sure. Sure, go ahead, Ricky.
You're sure?
Go ahead.
Well, Ray was eating at one of his company's men's home in France...the man's French, isn't he?
No, his wife is.
Ah. Ah, his wife is. Ray: what time do you have...?
Twelvefifteen.
Oh! My God...I've got to get you on the plane!
Didn't I say I was taking the two o'...
No. You said the one. That's why you said we couldn't talk till Kenilworth.
Oh, my God, you're right! I'm on the one... Well, let's scoot...
What?
Kenilworth...?
I'm sorry...?
Kenilworth.
Oh, God...Oh, God... Jim, excuse me...Ray, I told you, who he is is the senior vice president American Express. His family owns 32 per...Over the past years I've sold him...I can't tell you the dollar amount, but quite a lot of land. I promised five weeks ago that I'd go to the wife's birthday party in Kenilworth tonight. I have to go. You understand. They treat me like a member of the family, so I have to go.
Rick...?
I'm sorry, Jim. I can't talk now. I'll call you tonight...I'm sorry. I'm coming, Ray.
Rick...?
I'm coming, Ray...what a day! I'll call you this evening, Jim. I'm sorry you had to come in...Monday, lunch.
Rick...
One moment, I'll be right with you. In fact, a...one point, which I spoke to you of which I can't talk to you about here.
I've wanted to talk to you for some time. For a long time, actually. I said, "The Machine, there's a man I would work with. There's a man..." You know? I never said a thing. I should have, don't know why I didn't. And that shit you were slinging on my guy today was so good...it...it was, and, excuse me, 'cause it isn't even my place to say it. It was admirable...it was the old stuff. Hey, I've been on a hot streak, so what? There's things that I could learn from you. You eat today?
Me.
Yeah.
Mm.
Well, you want to swing by the Chinks, watch me eat, we'll talk?
I think I'd better stay here for a while.
Ricky, I...
Okay, okay, I'll be at the resta...
Ricky...
You did that?
Eightytwo thousand dollars.
Those fuckin' deadbeats...
My ass. I told 'em. Listen to this: I said...
Hey, I don't want to hear your fucking war stories...
Give me some leads. I'm going out... I'm getting out of...
"...you have to believe in yourself..."
Na, fuck the leads, I'm going home.
"Bruce, Harriet...Fuck me, believe in yourself..."
Hey, they're fuckin' garbage any case...This whole goddamn...
"...You look around, you say, 'This one has soandso, and I have nothing..."
Shit.
"'Why? Why don't I get the opportunities...?"
And did they steal the contracts...?
...the fuck is that supposed to mean...?
Will you shut up, I'm telling you this...
"You do get the..." Huh? Huh?
Fuck is that supposed to mean?
"You do get the opportunity...You get them. As I do, as anyone does..."
Ricky?...That I don't care they stole the contracts?
I got 'em in the kitchen. I'm eating her crumb cake.
What does that mean?
Rick. Let me tell you. Wait, we're in the...
Shut the fuck up. Ricky. You have a mean streak in you... And what the fuck are you babbling about...?
Dave...
...Shut up. Decide who should be dealt with how? Is that the thing? I come into the fuckin' office today, I get humiliated by some jagoff cop. I get accused of...I get this shit thrown in my face by you, you geniune shit, because you're top name on the board...
John...John...John. Okay. John. John. Look: The Glengarry Highland's leads, you're sending Roma out. Fine. He's a good man. We know what he is. He's fine. All I'm saying, you look at the board, he's throwing...wait, wait, wait, he's throwing them away, he's throwing the leads away. All that I'm saying, that you're wasting leads. I don't want to tell you your job. All that I'm saying, things get set, I know they do, you get a certain mindset... A guy gets a reputation. We know how this...all I'm saying, put a closer on the job. There's more than one man for the... Put a...wait a second, put a proven man out...and you watch, now wait a secondand you watch your dollar volumes...You start closing them for fifty 'stead of twenty five...you put a closer on the...
Shelly, you blew the last...
No. John. No. Let's wait, let's back up here, I did...will you please? Wait a second. Please. I didn't "blow" them. No. I didn't "blow" them. No. One kicked out, one I closed...
...you didn't close...
...I, if you'd listen to me. Please. I closed the cocksucker. His ex, John, his ex, I didn't know he was married...he, the judge invalidated the...
Shelly...
...and what is that, John? What? Bad luck. That's all it is. I pray in your life you will never find it runs in streaks. That's what it does, that's all it's doing. Streaks. I pray it misses you. That's all I want to say.
What about the other two?
What two?
Four. You had four leads. One kicked out, one the judge, you say...
...you want to see the court records? John? Eh? You want to go down...
...no...
...do you want to go downtown...?
...no...
...then...
...I only...
...then what is this "you say" shit, what is that? What is that...?
All that I'm saying...
What is this "you say"? A deal kicks out...I got to eat. Shit, Williamson, shit. You...Moss... Roma...look at the sheets...look at the sheets. Nineteen eighty, eightyone...eightytwo...six months of eightytwo...who's there? Who's up there?
Roma.
Under him?
Moss.
Bullshit. John. Bullshit. April, September 1981. It's me. It isn't fucking Moss. Due respect, he's an order taker, John. He talks, he talks a good game, look at the board, and it's me, John, it's me...
Not lately it isn't.
Lately kiss my ass lately. That isn't how you build an org...talk, talk to Murray. Talk to Mitch. When we were on Peterson, who paid for his fucking car? You talk to him. The Seville...? He came in, "You bought that for me Shelly." Out of what? Cold calling. Nothing. Sixtyfive, when we were there, with Glen Ross Farms? You call 'em downtown. What was that? Luck? That was "luck"? Bullshit, John. You're burning my ass, I can't get a fucking lead...you think that was luck. My stats for those years? Bullshit...over that period of time...? Bullshit. It wasn't luck. It was skill. You want to throw that away, John...? You want to throw that away?
It isn't me...
...it isn't you...? Who is it? Who is this I'm talking to? I need the leads...
...after the thirtieth...
Bullshit the thirtieth, I don't get on the board the thirtieth, they're going to can my ass. I need the leads. I need them now. Or I'm gone, and you're going to miss me, John, I swear to you.
Murray...
...you talk to Murray...
I have. And my job is to marshal those leads...
Marshal the leads...marshal the leads? What the fuck, what bus did you get off of, we're here to fucking sell. Fuck marshaling the leads. What the fuck talk is that? What the fuck talk is that? Where did you learn that? In school? That's "talk," my friend, that's "talk." Our job is to sell. I'm the man to sell. I'm getting garbage. You're giving it to me, and what I'm saying is it's fucked.
You're saying that I'm fucked.
Yes. I am. I'm sorry to antagonize you.
Let me...
...and I'm going to get bounced and you're...
...let me...are you listening to me...?
Yes.
Let me tell you something, Shelly. I do what I'm hired to do. I'm...wait a second. I'm hired to watch the leads. I'm given...hold on, I'm given a policy. My job is to do that. What I'm told. That's it. You, wait a second, anybody falls below a certain mark I'm not permitted to give them the premium leads.
Then how do they come up above that mark? With dreck...? That's nonsense. Explain this to me. 'Cause it's a waste, and it's a stupid waste. I want to tell you something...
You know what those leads cost?
The premium leads. Yes. I know what they cost. John. Because I, I generated the dollar revenue sufficient to buy them. Nineteen sennynine, you know what I made? Sennynine? Ninetysix thousand dollars. John? For Murray... For Mitch...look at the sheets...
Murray said...
Fuck him. Fuck Murray. John? You know? You tell him I said so. What does he fucking know? He's going to have a "sales" contest...you know what our sales contest used to be?
Money. A fortune. Money lying on the ground. Murray? When was the last time he went out on a sit? Sales contest? It's laughable. It's cold out there now, John. It's tight. Money is tight. This ain't sixtyfive. It ain't. It just ain't. See? See? Now, I'm a good manbut I need a...
Murray said...
John. John...
Will you please wait a second. Shelly. Please. Murray told me: the hot leads...
...ah, fuck this...
The...Shelly? The hot leads are assigned according to the board. During the contest. Period. Anyone who beats fifty per...
That's fucked. That's fucked. You don't look at the fucking percentage. You look at the gross.
Either way. You're out.
I'm out.
Yes.
I'll tell you why I'm out. I'm out, you're giving me toilet paper. John.
I've seen those leads. I saw them when I was at Homestead, we pitched those cocksuckers Rio Rancho nineteen sixtynine they wouldn't buy. They couldn't buy a fucking toaster. They're broke, John. They're cold. They're deadbeats, you can't judge on that. Even so. Even so. Alright. Fine. Fine. Even so. I go in, FOUR FUCKING LEADS they got their money in a sock. They're fucking Polacks, John. Four leads. I close two. Two. Fifty per...
...they kicked out.
They all kick out. You run in streaks, pal. Streaks. I'm... I'm...don't look at the board, look at me. Shelly Levene. Anyone. Ask them on Western. Ask Getz at Homestead. Go ask Jerry Graff. You know who I am...I NEED A SHOT. I got to get on the fucking board. Ask them. Ask them. Ask them who ever picked up a check I was flush. Moss, Jerry Graff, Mitch himself...Those guys lived on the business I brought in. They lived on it...and so did Murray, John. You were here you'd of benefited from it too. And now I'm saying this. Do I want charity? Do I want pity? I want sits. I want leads that don't come right out of a phone book. Give me a lead hotter than that, I'll go in and close it. Give me a chance. That's all I want. I'm going to get up on that fucking board and all I want is a chance. It's a streak and I'm going to turn it around. I need your help.
Why?
The leads are assigned randomly...
Bullshit, bullshit, you assign them... What are you telling me?
...apart from the top men on the contest board.
Then put me on the board.
You start closing again, you'll be on the board.
I can't close these leads, John. No one can. It's a joke. John, look, just give me a hot lead. Just give me two of the premium leads. As a "test," alright? As a "test" and I promise you...
I can't do it, Shel.
Of what?
And what if you don't close.
I will close.
What if you don't close...?
I will close.
What if you don't? Then I'm fucked. You see...? Then it's my job. That's what I'm telling you.
I will close. John, John, ten percent. I can get hot. You know that...
Not lately you can't...
Fuck that. That's defeatist. Fuck that. Fuck it...Get on my side. Go with me. Let's do something. You want to run this office, run it.
Twenty percent.
Alright.
And fifty bucks a lead.
John. Listen. I want to talk to you. Permit me to do this a second. I'm older than you. A man acquires a reputation. On the street. What he does when he's up, what he does otherwise...I said "ten," you said "no." You said "twenty." I said "fine," I'm not going to fuck with you, how can I beat that, you tell me?...Okay. Okay. We'll...Okay. Fine. We'll...Alright, twenty percent, and fifty bucks a lead. That's fine. For now. That's fine. A month or two we'll talk. A month from now. Next month. After the thirtieth. We'll talk.
What are we going to say?
No. You're right. That's for later. We'll talk in a month. What have you got? I want two sits. Tonight.
I'm not sure I have two.
I saw the board. You've got four...
I've got Roma. Then I've got Moss...
Bullshit. They ain't been in the office yet. Give 'em some stiff. We have a deal or not? Eh? Two sits. The Des Plaines. Both of 'em, six and ten, you can do it...six and ten...eight and eleven, I don't give a shit, you set 'em up? Alright? The two sits in Des Plaines.
Alright.
Good. Now we're talking.
Now? Now?
Now. Yes...When?
I wish I could.
You fucking asshole. I haven't got it. I haven't got it, John. I'll pay you tomorrow. I'm coming in here with the sales, I'll pay you tomorrow. I haven't got it, when I pay, the gas...I get back the hotel, I'll bring it in tomorrow.
Can't do it.
I'll give you thirty on them now, I'll bring the rest tomorrow. I've got it at the hotel. John? We do that, for chrissake?
No.
I'm asking you. As a favor to me? John. John: my daughter...
I can't do it, Shelly...
Well, I want to tell you something, fella, wasn't long I could pick up the phone, call Murray and I'd have your job. You know that? Not too long ago. For what? For nothing. "Mur, this new kid burns my ass." "Shelly, he's out." You're gone before I'm back from lunch. I bought him a trip to Bermuda once...
I have to go...
Wait. Alright. Fine. The one. Give me the lead. Give me the one lead. The best one you have.
I can't split them.
Why?
Because I say so.
Is that it? Is that it? You want to do business that way...?
You want to do business that way...? Alright. Alright. Alright. Alright. What is there on the other list...?
You want something off the B list?
Yeah. Yeah.
Is that what you're saying?
That's what I'm saying. Yeah. I'd like something off the other list. Which, very least, that I'm entitled to. If I'm still working here, which for the moment I guess that I am. What? I'm sorry I spoke harshly to you.
That's alright.
The deal still stands, our other thing.
What happened?
Somebody broke in.
Ah, fuck. Leads! Leads! Williamson! Send me out! Send me out!
The leads are coming.
Get 'em to me!
I talked to Murray and Mitch an hour ago. They're coming in, you understand they're a bit upset over this morning's...
Did you tell 'em my sale?
How could I tell 'em your sale? Eh? I don't have a tel...I'll tell 'em your sale when they bring in the leads. Alright? Shelly. Alright? We had a little... You closed a deal. You made a good sale. Fine.
It's better than a good sale. It's a...
Look: I have a lot of things on my mind, they're coming in, alright, they're very upset, I'm trying to make some sense...
All that I'm telling you: that one thing you can tell them it's a remarkable sale.
The only thing remarkable is who you made it to.
What does that fucking mean?
That if the sale sticks, it will be a miracle.
Why should the sale not stick? Hey, fuck you. That's what I'm saying. You have no idea of your job. A man's his job and you're fucked at yours. You hear what I'm saying to you? Your "end of month board..." You can't run an office. I don't care. You don't know what it is, you don't have the sense, you don't have the balls. You ever been on a sit? Ever? Has this cocksucker ever been...you ever sit down with a cust...
I were you, I'd calm down, Shelly.
Would you? Would you...? Or you're gonna what, fire me?
It's not impossible.
On an eightythousand dollar day? And it ain't even noon.
Mmm.
You can't think on your feet you should keep your mouth closed. You hear me? I'm talking to you. Do you hear me...?
Yes. I hear you.
You can't learn that in an office. Eh? He's right. You have to learn it on the streets. You can't buy that. You have to live it.
Mmm.
Yes. Mmm. Yes. Precisely. Precisely. 'Cause your partner depends on it. I'm talking to you, I'm trying to tell you something.
You are?
Yes, I am.
What are you trying to tell me?
What Roma's trying to tell you. What I told you yesterday. Why you don't belong in this business.
Why I don't...
You listen to me, someday you might say, "Hey..." No, fuck that, you just listen what I'm going to say: your partner depends on you. Your partner...a man who's your "partner" depends on you...you have to go with him and for him...or you're shit, you're shit, you can't exist alone...
Excuse me...
...excuse me, nothing, you be as cold as you want, but you just fucked a good man out of six thousand dollars and his goddamn bonus 'cause you didn't know the shot, if you can do that and you aren't man enough that it gets you, then I don't know what, if you can't take some thing from that... you're scum, you're fucking white bread. You be as cold as you want. A child would know it, he's right. You're going to make something up, be sure it will help or keep your mouth closed.
How do you know I made it up?
What?
How do you know I made it up?
What are you talking about?
You said, "You don't make something up unless it's sure to help." How did you know that I made it up?
What are you talking about?
I told the customer that his contracts had gone to the bank.
Well, hadn't it?
No. It hadn't.
Don't fuck with me, John, don't fuck with me...what are you saying?
Well, I'm saying this, Shel: usually I take the contracts to the bank. Last night I didn't. How did you know that? One night in a year I left a contract on my desk. Nobody knew that but you. Now how did you know that? You want to talk to me, you want to talk to someone else...because this is my job. This is my job on the line, and you are going to talk to me. Now how did you know that contract was on my desk?
You're so full of shit.
You robbed the office.
Sure! I robbed the office. Sure.
What'd you do with the leads? You want to go in there? I tell him what I know, he's going to dig up something...You got an alibi last night? You better have one. What did you do with the leads? If you tell me what you did with the leads, we can talk.
I don't know what you are saying.
If you tell me where the leads are, I won't turn you in. If you don't, I am going to tell the cop you stole them, Mitch and Murray will see that you go to jail. Believe me they will. Now, what did you do with the leads? I'm walking in that dooryou have five seconds to tell me: or you are going to jail.
I...
I sold them to Jerry Graff.
How much did you get for them? How much did you get for them?
Five thousand. I kept half.
Who kept the other half?
Do I have to tell you? Moss.
That was easy, wasn't it?
It was his idea.
Was it?
I...I'm sure he got more than the five, actually.
Uhhuh?
He told me my share was twentyfive.
Mmm.
Okay: I...look: I'm going to make it worth your while. I am. I turned this thing around. I closed the old stuff, I can do it again. I'm the one's going to close 'em. I am! I am! 'Cause I turned this thing a...I can do that, I can do anyth...last night. I'm going to tell you, I was ready to Do the Dutch. Moss gets me, "Do this, we'll get well..." Why not. Big fuckin' deal. I'm halfway hoping to get caught. To put me out of my... But it taught me something. What it taught me, that you've got to get out there. Big deal. So I wasn't cut out to be a thief. I was cut out to be a salesman. And now I'm back, and I got my balls back...and, you know, John, you have the advantage on me now: Whatever it takes to make it right, we'll make it right. We're going to make it right.
I want to tell you something, Shelly. You have a big mouth.
What?
You've got a big mouth, and now I'm going to show you an even bigger one.
Wait...uh, look... Look, twelve, twenty, two, twen... twentyfive hundred, it's...take it. Take it all... Take it!
No, I don't think so, Shel.
I...
No, I think I don't want your money. I think you fucked up my office. And I think you're going away.
I...what? Are you, are you, that's why...? Are you nuts? I'm...I'm going to close for you, I'm going to... Here, here, I'm going to make this office...I'm going to be back there Number One...Hey, hey, hey! This is only the beginning...List...list... listen. Listen. Just one moment. List...here's what...here's what we're going to do. Twenty percent. I'm going to give you twenty percent of my sales... Twenty percent. For as long as I am with the firm. Fifty percent. You're going to be my partner. Fifty percent. Of all my sales.
What sales?
What sales...? I just closed eightytwo grand...Are you fuckin'...I'm back...I'm back, this is only the beginning.
Only the beginning...
Abso...
Where have you been, Shelly? Bruce and Harriet Nyborg. Do you want to see the memos...? They're nuts... they used to call in every week. When I was with Webb. And we were selling Arizona...they're nuts...did you see how they were living? How can you delude yours...
I've got the check...
Forget it. Frame it. It's worthless.
The check's no good?
You stick around I'll pull the memo for you. I'm busy now...
Their check's no good? They're nuts...?
Call up the bank. I called them.
You did?
Don't.
I'm sorry.
Why?
Because I don't like you.
John: John:...my daughter...
Fuck you.
Williamson...Williamson, they stole the contracts...?
Excuse me, sir...
Did they get my contracts?
Excuse me, fella.
...did they...
Would you excuse us, please...?
Don't fuck with me, fella. I'm talking about a fuckin' Cadillac car that you owe me...
Oh, fuck. Fuck. FUCK FUCK FUCK! WILLIAMSON!!! WILLIAMSON!!! OPEN THE FUCKING...WILLIAMSON...
Who are you?
Who told you...?
Who told me wh...? You've got a fuckin', you've...a...who is this...? You've got a boardup on the window...Moss told me.
Moss...Who told him?
How the fuck do I know? What...talk to me.
And I don't want any fucking shit and I don't give a shit, Lingk puts me over the top, you filed it, that's fine, any other shit kicks out you go back. You...you reclose it, 'cause I closed it and you...you owe me the car.
Would you excuse us, please.
Fuck insured. You owe me a car.
Please don't leave. I'm going to talk to you. What's your name?
Are you talking to me?
Aaronow...
They took the typewriters, they took the leads, they took the cash, they took the contracts...
Listen to me, the statute, it's for your protection. I have no complaints with that, in fact, I was a member of the board when we drafted it, so quite the opposite. It says that you can change your mind three working days from the time the deal is closed.
Levene!
Which, wait a second, which is not until the check is cashed.
Levene!!
Roma! I'm talking to you...
I've...look. Will someone get this guy off my back.
You have a problem?
Yes, I have a problem. Yes, I do, my fr...It's not me that ripped the joint off, I'm doing business. I'll be with you in a while. You got it...? Where are you going?
Roma, would you, I'd like to get some lunch...
I'm talking with Mr. Lingk. If you please, I'll be back in. I'll be back in a while...I told you, check with Mr. Williamson.
The people downtown said...
You call them again. Mr. Williamson...!
You stupid fucking cunt. You, Williamson...I'm talking to you, shithead...You just cost me six thousand dollars. Six thousand dollars. And one Cadillac. That's right. What are you going to do about it? What are you goin to do about it, asshole. You fucking shit. Where did you learn your trade. You stupid fucking cunt. You idiot. Whoever told you you could work with men?
Could I...
I'm going to have your job, shithead. I'm going downtown and talk to Mitch and Murrray, and I'm going to Lemkin. I don't care whose nephew you are, who you know, whose dick you're sucking on. You're going out, I swear to you, you're going...
Hey, fella, let's get this done...
Anyone in this office lives on their wits... I'm going to be with you in a second. What you're hired for is to help usdoes that seem clear to you?
Mr. Levene...?
You're done, come down, and let's...
Would you come in here, please?
And let's put this together. Okay? Shel? Say okay.
Mr. Levene, I think we have to talk.
I'm going to the Chinks. You're done, come down, we're going to smoke a cigarette.
Hey, hey, hey, easy friend. That's the "Machine." That is Shelly "The Machine" Lev...
Get in the goddamn room.
Who used to say that?
In school.
I, um, and may...maybe they're in... they're in...you should, John, if we're ins...
I'm sure that we're insured, George...
I don't know, George, why?
'Cause, you know, 'cause they weren't, I know that Mitch and Murray uh...
What?
That they're going to be upset.
That's right. You want to go out today...?
Shelly: get in the office.
I didn't...why should I..."Where were you last..." Is anybody listening to me...? Where's Moss...? Where...?
...Come in here...I work here, I don't come in here to be mistreated...
Go to lunch, will you...
I want to work today, that's why I came...
The leads come in, I'll let...
...that's why I came in. I thought I...
Just go to lunch.
I don't want to go to lunch.
Go to lunch, George.
Where does he get off to talk that way to a working man? It's not...
Will you take it outside, we have people trying to do business here...
That's what, that's what, that's what I was trying to do. That's why I came in...I meet gestapo tac...
Excuse me...
I meet gestapo tactics...I meet gestapo tactics...That's not right... No man has the right to..."Call an attorney," that means you're guilt... you're under sus..."Co...," he says, "cooperate" or we'll go downtown. That's not...as long as I've...
Will you get out of here. Will you get out of here. Will you. I'm trying to run an office here. Will you go to lunch? Go to lunch. Will you go to lunch?
Mmm.
Did they find the guy who broke into the office yet?
Read it. Bruce and Harriett Nyborg. What happened here?
Fuck. I had them on River Glen.
Shelly, the Machine, Levene.
You...
That's great.
Thank you, George.
Wh...wh...Wha...?
We had a robbery.
...how can you talk to me that... that...
Rick, I'm going to flag a cab.
I didn't rob...
I, you know, they should be insured.
What do you care...?
Then, you know, they wouldn't be so ups...
Yeah. That's swell. Yes. You're right. How are you?
I'm fine. You mean the board? You mean the board...?
I don't...yes. Okay, the board.
I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm fucked on the board. You. You see how...I... I can't...my mind must be in other places. 'Cause I can't do any...
What? You can't do any what?
I can't close 'em.
Well, they're old. I saw the shit that they were giving you.
Yes.
Huh?
Yes. They are old.
They're ancient.
Clear...
Clear Meadows. That shit's dead.
It is dead.
It's a waste of time.
Yes. I'm no fucking good.
That's...
Everything I...you know...
That's not...Fuck that shit, George. You're a, hey, you had a bad month. You're a good man, George.
I am?
You hit a bad streak. We've all... look at this: fifteen units Mountain View, the fucking things get stole.
He said he filed...
He filed half of them, he filed the big one. All the little ones, I have, I have to go back and...ah, fuck, I got to go out like a fucking schmuck hat in my hand and reclose the... I mean, talk about a bad streak. That would sap anyone's self confi... I got to go out and reclose all my... Where's the phones?
They stole...
They stole the...
What. What kind of outfit are we running where...where anyone...
They stole the phones.
Where criminals can come in here... they take the...
They stole the phones. They stole the leads. They're...Christ. What am I going to do this month? Oh, shit...
You think they're going to catch... where are you going?
Down the street.
Were the leads...
...what am I going to do all month...
Were the leads insured?
He said we're all going to have to go talk to the guy.
What?
He said we...
To the cops?
Yeah.
Yeah. That's swell. Another waste of time.
A waste of time? Why?
Why? 'Cause they aren't going to find the guy.
The cops?
Yes. The cops. No.
They aren't?
No.
Why don't you think so?
Why? Because they're stupid. "Where were you last night..."
Where were you?
Where was I?
Yes.
I was at home, where were you?
At home.
See...? Were you the guy who broke in?
Was I?
Yes.
No.
Then don't sweat it, George, you know why?
No.
You have nothing to hide.
When I talk to the police, I get nervous.
Yeah. You know who doesn't?
No, who?
Thieves.
Why?
They're inured to it.
You think so?
Yes.
Will you excuse...
Where did Moss...? I...
Will you excuse us please?
Uh, uh, did he go to the restaurant? I...I...
Did they...?
You understand?
Did they catch...?
Do you understand? My stuff is mine, his stuff is ours. I'm taking half of his commissions now, you work it out.
Did the leads come in yet?
No.
Oh, God, I hate this job.
I'll be at the restaurant. </pre> </html>
Polacks and deadbeats.
...Polacks...
Deadbeats all.
...they hold on to their money...
All of 'em. They, hey: it happens to us all.
Where am I going to work?
You have to cheer up, George, you aren't out yet.
I'm not?
You missed a fucking sale. Big deal. A deadbeat Polack. Big deal. How you going to sell 'em in the first place...? Your mistake, you shoun'a took the lead.
I had to.
You had to, yeah. Why?
To get on the...
To get on the board. Yeah. How you goan'a get on the board sell'n a Polack? And I'll tell you, I'll tell you what else. You listening? I'll tell you what else: don't ever try to sell an Indian.
I'd never try to sell an Indian.
You get those names come up, you ever get 'em, "Patel?"
Mmm...
You ever get 'em?
Well, I think I had one once.
You did?
I...I don't know.
You had one you'd know it. Patel. They keep coming up. I don't know. They like to talk to salesmen. They're lonely, something. They like to feel superior, I don't know. Never bought a fucking thing. You're sitting down "The Rio Rancho this, the blah blah blah," "The Mountain View" "Oh yes. My brother told me that..." They got a grapevine. Fuckin' Indians, George. Not my cup of tea. Speaking of which I want to tell you something: I never got a cup of tea with them. You see them in the restaurants. A supercilious race. What is this look on their face all the time? I don't know. I don't know. Their broads all look like they just got fucked with a dead cat, I don't know. I don't know. I don't like it. Christ...
What?
The whole fuckin' thing...The pressure's just too great. You're ab...you're absolu...they're too important. All of them. You go in the door. I..."I got to close this fucker, or I don't eat lunch," "or I don't win the Cadillac..." We fuckin' work too hard. You work too hard. We all, I remember when we were at Platt...huh? Glen Ross Farms... didn't we sell a bunch of that..."
They came in and they, you know...
Well, they fucked it up.
They did.
They killed the goose.
They did.
And now...
We're stuck with this...
We're stuck with this fucking shit...
...this shit...
It's too...
It is.
Eh?
It's too...
You get a bad month, all of a...
You're on this...
All of, they got you on this "board..."
I, I...I...
Some contest board...
I...
It's not right.
It's not.
No.
And it's not right to the customers.
I know it's not. I'll tell you, you got, you know, you got...what did I learn as a kid on Western? Don't sell a guy one car. Sell him five cars over fifteen years.
That's right?
Eh...?
That's right?
Goddamn right, that's right. Guys come on: "Oh, the blah blah blah, I know what I'll do: I'll go in and rob everyone blind and go to Argentina cause nobody ever thought of this before."
...that's right...
Eh?
No. That's absolutely right.
And so they kill the goose. I, I, I'll...and a fuckin' man, worked all his life has got to...
...that's right...
...cower in his boots...
Shoes, boots, yes...
For some fuckin' "Sell ten thousand and you win the steak knives..."
For some sales pro...
...sales promotion, "You lose, then we fire your..." No. It's medieval... it's wrong. "Or we're going to fire your ass." It's wrong.
Yes.
Yes, it is. And you know who's responsible?
Who?
You know who it is. It's Mitch. And Murray. 'Cause it doesn't have to be this way.
No.
Look at Jerry Graff. He's clean, he's doing business for himself, he's got his, that list of his with the nurses...see? You see? That's thinking. Why take ten percent? A ten percent comm...why are we giving the rest away? What are we giving ninety per...for nothing. For some jerk sit in the office tell you "Get out there and close." "Go win the Cadillac." Graff. He goes out and buys. He pays top dollar for the... you see?
Yes.
That's thinking. Now, he's got the leads, he goes in business for himself. He's...that's what I... that's thinking! "Who? Who's got a steady job, a couple bucks nobody's touched, who?"
Nurses.
So Graff buys a fucking list of nurses, one grandif he paid two I'll eat my hatfour, five thousand nurses, and he's going wild...
He is?
He's doing very well.
I heard that they were running cold.
The nurses?
Yes.
You hear a lot of things...He's doing very well. He's doing very well.
With River Oaks?
River Oaks, Brook Farms. All of that shit. Somebody told me, you know what he's clearing himself? Fourteen, fifteen grand a week.
Himself?
That's what I'm saying. Why? The leads. He's got the good leads... what are we, we're sitting in the shit here. Why? We have to go to them to get them. Huh. Ninety percent our sale, we're paying to the office for the leads.
The leads, the overhead, the telephones, there's lots of things.
What do you need? A telephone, some broad to say "Good morning," nothing...nothing...
No, it's not that simple, Dave...
Yes. It is. It is simple, and you know what the hard part is?
What?
Starting up.
What hard part?
Of doing the thing. The dif...the difference. Between me and Jerry Graff. Going to business for yourself. The hard part is...you know what it is?
What?
Just the act.
What act?
To say "I'm going on my own." 'Cause what you do, George, let me tell you what you do: you find yourself in thrall to someone else. And we enslave ourselves. To please. To win some fucking toaster...to...to... and the guy who got there first made up those...
That's right...
He made up those rules, and we're working for him.
That's the truth...
That's the God's truth. And it gets me depressed. I swear that it does. At MY AGE. To see a goddamn: "Somebody wins the Cadillac this month. P.S. Two guys get fucked."
Huh.
You don't ax your sales force.
No.
You...
You...
You build it!
That's what I...
You fucking build it! Men come...
Men come work for you...
...you're absolutely right.
They...
They have...
When they...
Look look look look, when they build your business, then you can't fucking turn around, enslave them, treat them like children, fuck them up the ass, leave them to fend for themselves... no. No. You're absolutely right, and I want to tell you something.
What?
I want to tell you what somebody should do.
What?
Someone should stand up and strike back.
What do you mean?
Somebody...
Yes...?
Should do something to them.
What?
Something. To pay them back. Someone, someone should hurt them. Murray and Mitch.
Someone should hurt them.
Yes.
How?
How? Do something to hurt them. Where they live.
What?
Someone should rob the office.
Huh.
That's what I'm saying. We were, if we were that kind of guys, to knock it off, and trash the joint, it looks like robbery, and take the fuckin' leads out of the files...go to Jerry Graff.
What could somebody get for them?
What could we get for them? I don't know. Buck a throw...bucka half a throw...I don't know...Hey, who knows what they're worth, what do they pay for them? All told...must be, I'd... three bucks a throw...I don't know.
How many leads have we got?
The Glengarry...the premium leads...? I'd say we got five thousand. Five. Five thousand leads.
And you're saying a fella could take and sell these leads to Jerry Graff.
Yes.
How do you know he'd buy them?
Graff? Because I worked for him.
You haven't talked to him.
No. What do you mean? Have I talked to him about this?
Yes. I mean are you actually talking about this, or are we just...
No, we're just...
We're just "talking" about it.
We're just speaking about it. As an idea.
As an idea.
Yes.
We're not actually talking about it.
No.
Talking about it as a...
No.
As a robbery.
As a "robbery"?! No.
Well. Well...
Hey.
So all this, um, you didn't, actually, you didn't go talk to Graff.
Not actually, no.
You didn't?
No. Not actually.
Did you?
What did you say?
Yes. I said, "Not actually." The fuck you care, George? We're just talking...
We are?
Because, because, you know, it's a crime.
That's right. It's a crime. It is a crime. It's also very safe.
You're actually talking about this?
That's right.
You're going to steal the leads?
Have I said that?
Did I say that?
Did you talk to Graff?
Is that what I said?
What did he say?
What did he say? He'd buy them.
Yes.
What will he pay?
A buck a shot.
For five thousand?
However they are, that's the deal. A buck a throw. Five thousand dollars. Split it half and half.
You're saying "me."
Yes. Twentyfive hundred apiece. One night's work, and the job with Graff. Working the premium leads.
A job with Graff.
Is that what I said?
He'd give me a job.
He would take you on. Yes.
Yes. It is, George. Yes. It's a big decision. And it's a big reward. It's a big reward. For one night's work. But it's got to be tonight.
What?
What? What? The leads.
You have to steal the leads tonight?
That's right, the guys are moving them downtown. After the thirtieth. Murray and Mitch. After the contest.
You're, you're saying so you have to go in there tonight and...
You...
I'm sorry?
You.
Me?
You have to go in. You have to get the leads.
Yes.
I...
It's not something for nothing, George, I took you in on this, you have to go. That's your thing. I've made the deal with Graff. I can't go. I can't go in, I've spoken on this too much. I've got a big mouth. "The fucking leads" et cetera, blah blah blah "...the fucking tight ass company..."
They'll know when you go over to Graff...
What will they know? That I stole the leads? I didn't steal the leads, I'm going to the movies tonight with a friend, and then I'm going to the Como Inn. Why did I go to Graff? I got a better deal. Period. Let 'em prove something. They can't prove anything that's not the case.
Dave.
Yes.
You want me to break into the office tonight and steal the leads?
Yes.
Oh, yes, George.
What does that mean?
Listen to this. I have an alibi, I'm going to the Como Inn, why? Why? The place gets robbed, they're going to come looking for me. Why? Because I probably did it. Are you going to turn me in? George? Are you going to turn me in?
What if you don't get caught?
They come to you, you going to turn me in?
Why would they come to me?
They're going to come to everyone.
Why would I do it?
You wouldn't, George, that's why I'm talking to you. Answer me. They come to you. You going to turn me in?
No.
Are you sure?
Yes. I'm sure.
Then listen to this: I have to get those leads tonight. That's something I have to do. If I'm not at the movies...if I'm not eating over at the inn...If you don't do this, then I have to come in here...
...you don't have to come in...
...and rob the place...
...I thought that we were only talking...
...they take me, then. They're going to ask me who were my accomplices.
Me?
Absolutely.
That's ridiculous.
Well, to the law, you're an accessory. Before the fact.
I didn't ask to be.
Then tough luck, George, because you are.
Why? Why, because you only told me about it?
That's right.
Why are you doing this to me, Dave. Why are you talking this way to me? I don't understand. Why are you doing this at all...?
That's none of your fucking business...
Well, well, well, talk to me, we sat down to eat dinner, and here I'm a criminal...
You went for it.
In the abstract...
So I'm making it concrete.
Why?
Why? Why you going to give me five grand?
Do you need five grand?
Is that what I just said?
You need money? Is that the...
Hey, hey, let's just keep it simple, what I need is not the...what do you need...?
What is the five grand? What is the, you said that we were going to split five...
I lied. Alright? My end is my business. Your end's twentyfive. In or out. You tell me, you're out you take the consequences.
I do?
Yes.
And why is that?
Because you listened.
Can we get some coffee...?
How ya doing?
Fine.
Uhhuh.
If anyone's going, I could use some coffee.
Are we here to play cards or talk about the old days?
Harry! Jack, I don't want to be rude, but these men have brought a lot of money with them. Glenda, you don't offer a man like Jack a drink in those piddling little glasses. Give him the bloody bottle. Now, where are we?
Oh... I think I'll stay as I am.
You're bluffing, you bastard!
That's what you pay to find out. Right, Jack?
What's that? A hundred?
That's right, Harry.
Your hundred, and another hundred.
What's that?
That, Harry? That's another hundred  twentyfive pounds notes of the realm.
Three hundred altogether?
Three hundred altogether, Harry.
All right. Two hundred.
Ha.
What's that?
That's six hundred pounds, Harry. Two hundred to follow you, and I've raised it four hundred.
Four hundred?
That's right.
You're not seeing me?
No.
I'll see you, then.
Calling my bluff, are you, Harry?
How about that, Jack? Old Harry thought I was having him on.
Shut up.
Bollock naked with his socks still on?
They do that up North.
What for? Protective purposes?
Ask me?
Ask Jack. It's his old stamping ground.
Not suede boots!
Knock it off, Gerald.
What? And get the clap?
Gerald phoned us in the middle of the night, said he'd heard you've been making a nuisance of yourself.
We've got to take you back to London.
He said it'd be doing him a big favour.
We know why you're all steamed up, and so do Gerald and Sid.
But they have to be diplomatic.
Put it away, Jack. You know you won't use it.
The gun he means.
Gerald wants to see him first.
Shut up.
Yes, I can see your problem, Mr Kinnear.
Sit down, Jack, I could weep. I really could. Sometimes I think I'll retire. Just piss off to the Bahamas and let somebody else employ them, Glenda, get Jack a drink. What is it, Jack?
Scotch, please.
Piss off, Ray.
Eric told me of your bereavement.
Yep.
Do you know, I never knew he worked in one of my places!
No? Funny that. Neither did I.
If I'd known, I'd have fixed him up with something better.
Yeah.
Nasty way to go.
Yes.
Not going, Jack?
I have to. Things to see to.
Of course, of course. Well, any time, just drop by.
Yeah, I'll do that. Told you it wouldn't take long, didn't I?
Is he?
Jack Carter.
Eric. Eric Paice.
What you doing around here then?
Didn't you know this is my home town?
No, I didn't know that.
Funny, that.
Thanks. So what're you doing? On your holidays?
No. I'm visiting relatives.
Oh, that's nice.
It would be. If they were still living.
Meaning what?
A bereavement. A death in the family.
Oh, I'm sorry to hear that.
That's all right, Eric.
Well, well. Small world, isn't it?
Very... So, who you working for these days Eric?
Oh, I'm straight. Respectable.
What are you doing? Advertising Martini?
Oh, you've been watching television.
Yeah, Come off it, Eric. Who is it?
What's it to you anyway?
I've always ad your welfare at heart, Eric. Besides which, I'm nosy.
That's not always a healthy way to be...
And you should know, if I remember rightly.
So you're doing all right then, Eric. You're making good.
Making a living.
Good prospects for advancement, is there? A pension? Do you know, I'd almost forgotten what your eyes looked like.
They're still the same. Piss holes in the snow.
Still got a sense of humour?
Yes, I retained that, Eric. Do you know a man called Albert Swift, Eric?
Can't say I do.
Jack! I didn't like that.
You should have told me who you were working for.
Cyril didn't like it, either.
Oh, Cyril, eh? So it's all girls together, is it?
He's thinking Sid and Gerald won't like it much when they hear you've been sticking your nose in.
You're finished, Jack. You know that, don't you? I've bloody finished you.
Not till I'm dead, Eric.
You couldn't win an egg and spoon race, Eric.
Sod off.
Eh? Have a drink.
Still got your sense of humour.
I won't be using the room tonight.
I see.
I'm staying with a friend.
Her husband docks tomorrow, does he?
It's not like that, luv.
It never is.
Are you a traveller?
Definitely.
Will this do?
Very nice. I'll pay you for tonight as well.
Don't be bloody silly. You're the first since Monday.
You sure?
Ta.
I'll bet this one's seen some action.
What is it?
My brother, Frank.
Is he staying the night?
Funny. Can I phone London?
It'll cost you.
What the bloody hell do you think you're at?
I'm sorry.
You don't look it.
No. Really, I am.
Don't come that bloody flannel with me. If you're a traveller, I'm bloody Twiggy. And who's he?
Inside? Why should I give house room to your sort?
Up the stairs, Keith. The door on the right.
And what you going to do?
Make us a nice cup of tea and I'll tell you. I might even let you watch.
I'll call the police.
No, you won't.
Suppose you tell me what the bloody hell's going on. It's my house, you know.
Yes, Edna, and I must say you've been great about the ...
Stick the soft soap. Let's be having it.
Now just a minute...
Tara.
You sod.
They came back?
No.
What'll they do to him?
Don't ask me.
They bloody hurt me.
You're lucky. They kill as well.
And what about you? Did you kill Brumby?
Thorpey nearly died laughing.
That little shit!
What about Keith?
What about Keith?
What you going to do?
Pension him off.
You're a bastard.
What am I supposed to do? I don't know where they've taken him. Do you?
So shut up.
What's that gun doing in your room? Suppose I phoned the police and told them there's a bloke staying in my hotel who's planning to shoot somebody?
You wouldn't.
How'd you know I wouldn't?
'Cos I know you wear purple underwear.
What's that supposed to mean?
Think about it.
Are you awake?
No.
Do you want breakfast?
You must be joking. I never eat breakfast, Did you sleep well?
Uhhuh.
Did you sleep well?
Yes, thank you.
Are you tired?
No. Are you tired?
No. I'm not tired, Do you eat breakfast?
Do us a favour?
What, and get myself beaten up again?
No chance of that.
Not much.
They're friends of mine.
And that'll make me feel better?
I don't want to get rough, do I?
What you going to do?
I'm going to sit in the car and whistle 'Rule, Britannia'.
You coming back?
How could I stay away?
I couldn't believe it when I heard. Carter is suddenly attentive.
What?
I mean, I was surprised when he didn't turn up for work. He was always on time.
Did you work with him, Keith?
At the Half Moon.
I mean, what for?
That's what I was wondering.
Come off it. Frank was... well... straight. He had no worries I know. Hell, we worked together every day for a year. It would have showed.
Why would it?
It just would. He was always the same.
Since when did he drink whisky?
Don't know.
Nobody seems to know.
You work here, Keith?
Yes.
Keith, if anybody comes in here and asks for me, you let me know. Right?
Right.
I'm at the Las Vegas. Behind the dance hall. Do you know a man called Albert Swift?
Yeah. He comes in here a bit.
Where would I find him?
Today? At the races. He always goes.
How'd you know Albert?
Went to school with him. He was leader of our gang. He'll know what's going on in this town.
What you having, Jack?
Large Scotch.
Heard of a man called Thorpe?
Old Thorpey? Haven't seen him in a long time.
That's what he was saying about you.
Said he'd heard you were up in town. Wondered if I knew where you was staying. Wanted to look you up. Old time's sake.
That's nice. What'd you tell him?
Nowt.
Good lad.
See you later.
Where you off to?
Las Vegas.
Thorpey. They were waiting for us in the car park.
How many?
Four of them.
Ah, Edna, come in. Join the tea set.
Who's Brumby?
Cliff Brumby. Ever been to Westsea?
Ever been into an arcade there and put a penny in the slot machine?
Yeah.
Ten to one, it belonged to Cliff Brumby, and like as not the bloody arcade as well. Right along the coast. Isn't that right, Thorpey?
What happened to you, then?
How'd you find me?
Did they give you a rough time?
No. You bastard. You knew they'd come back.
No, I didn't, Does Albert Swift still live over the ferry?
Get knotted.
All right. All right. I want to square things with you first.
Oh yes? How?
Stuff it! My girl friend's coming from Liverpool tonight. Nice surprise, isn't it?
I'm sorry. Here. This'll pay for a course in karate.
Sorry about your father.
Yeah.
Tell me, Doreen, did the police say anything?
They said he was drunk.
How's school?
I left last year.
Oh, what you doing now?
Working at Woolworths.
That must be interesting.
Yes.
You all right now?
Yeah.
You coming to South America?
No.
Where you going to live, then?
At me friend's house.
Where's that?
Wilton Estate.
Nice family, are they? Churchgoers and all that?
Good. I'm off tomorrow, so I don't suppose I'll see you again. There. Go and get your hair done.
Thanks.
We weren't sure where it was taking place, like.
Nice of you to come.
No. Frank was a good bloke.
It's a bloody funny thing. You know a bloke for six bloody years and all the time he's as calm as gentle Jesus... ...then he goes and does a thing like that. It's a bloody funny thing.
Yeah. A bloody funny thing!
Let her go. She'll be OK. Sorry about that.
Don't worry. She's bound to be upset.
Have another?
No. I'll be off now. I should be at work.
Look, look. Get your suit cleaned.
No. It's all right.
Thanks for coming.
Frank was a good bloke. It's the least I could have done.
You know Sid Fletcher?
What?
You know Sid Fletcher?
I work for him.
Do you?
Yes, I do.
I know him too.
Who?
Sid Fletcher.
Oh, do you?
Yes.
No, do you really?
Yes. I met him last year.
Go on.
Oh yes. When he came up on business.
Really?
He came to see Mr Kinnear.
No.
We went about together.
Really?
Yes, while he was here.
While he was here. You went about together?
He was here for four days.
Was he?
Could you do me a favour?
Yeah, I'll do you a favour.
Could you please put my glass on the table?
You didn't know you had a fairy godmother, did you?
No. I didn't know that.
A fairy godmother, all of your own. Aren't you lucky?
So where are we going, Princess?
To the demon king's castle, of course.
Of course. Where else?
How'd you know where I'd be?
You were seen parking your car. The demon king waves his wand and I was dispatched to bring you to him. Lucky for you I waited.
Very lucky, I should think. You're drunk!
Nasty.
He must have been pretty sure I'd come.
Oh, he was. He told me a magic spell that would make you come.
And what was that?
We're there now.
Who's setting you up in this place?
Brumby.
Is he coming here?
Don't worry. He's meeting the architects at the restaurant.
Aren't you scared Kinnear will find out?
He won't. He thinks I'm simple.
What does he want that bloody great country place for?
Entertaining.
What kind of entertaining?
Now you're asking.
Does Brumby get a kick out of that crap?
Especially when I play the lead.
That's why you waited for me.
Not entirely. No.
You sure about that?
Sure I'm sure.
I want to give you an Oscar.
You've been watching the film.
Tell me about the girl.
What girl?
The young girl. Who pulled her?
I don't know.
Was it Albert?
Shouldn't think so.
Is it one of Kinnear's films?
Yeah.
Who set it up? Eric?
Yeah.
Then he must have pulled her.
Expect so.
Did my brother Frank find out?
Your brother? What you talking about?
Now tell me the truth.
The girl's name was Doreen. That's all I know.
And you didn't know her last name?
No.
Well, it's Carter. That's my name, And her father was my brother. And he was murdered last Sunday. Now get up and get dressed.
Everyhing go off all right?
Fine... I want to talk to you.
What about?
Doreen.
She's nothing to do with me.
What do you mean? You've been Frank's bird ever since her mother cleared off. You're closer to her than anyone.
No. No. It's not like that. I've got a husband, you know.
Hold it! Hold it! Who killed Frank, Margaret?
Killed? I don't know anything about it.
Really.
I must go. I'm in a hurry.
I want to talk to you later.
I can't.
Tomorrow morning, then?
How were things between you and Frank?
He was all right to me.
Nothing more? Just another feller?
Nicer than most.
But he was just another feller, wasn't he?
Yes.
Though nicer than most?
Yes. I can't help the way I am.
Why'd you see him so regular?
Once a week?
I call that regular.
He was gentlemanly. I like that.
Once a week you like a gentleman?
Look, I'm me, right. You're not. We are what we are, like it or not. Why all the bloody needle?
What was bugging Frank?
He wanted me to leave Dave and marry him. Last Friday I told him it wouldn't work. Dave would have killed us both! He followed me home and kicked up a stink in the street, I had to tell Frank I couldn't see him any more. It was getting too dodgy. That was on Sunday. He said he'd kill himself. I was frightened what you might do.
I don't believe you, Margaret. Frank wasn't like that. I'm the villain in the family, remember?
It's the truth.
It is. Honestly.
You bloody whore. Frank was too careful to die like that. Who killed him?
I don't know nothing.
Jack?
Good evening.
I'd like a word with you, Jack.
That's nice.
Confidential, like.
You stay in the car. I'll come and listen. What you want to tell me, Thorpey?
Train goes at four minutes past twelve. You've just got time.
That's very kind of somebody. Who do I have to thank? What happens if I miss the train?
I've been asked to make sure you don't.
Oh, really. You're getting very optimistic in your old age, aren't you, Thorpey?
Who paid you to see me off?
I can't Jack. How can I?
Yes you can.
No, don't Jack, don't.
Who sent you, Thorpey?
Brumby!
Where's he living these days?
He's got a new place at Burnham.
Address?
On the Durham Road. The Pantiles.
Can I go now?
You must be joking, Keep him away from the telephone. I'm going out for a bit.
You know what the bloody time is! It's two o'clock in the bloody morning!
I know.
Well?
I made a mistake.
What?
I made a mistake.
What about?
Never mind.
Bloody well tell me who sent you.
You're a big man, but you're in bad shape. With me, it's a full time job. Now behave yourself.
A new venture of mine. It's going to be a restaurant. Do you like it?
Yes.
Last night, after you'd gone, I did a little bit of asking around. Seeing as you weren't very forthcoming, It seems that you are concerned about the death of your brother? I got to thinking it would be nice if the bloke you were after was the same bloke I wanted off my back, You know my life. Machines. The arcades. Nice business. Looks after itself. People put money in. I take it out. Not much rough stuff. It's a business that makes me very happy. But recently, I've had a spot of bother, One of my lads gets a bit over anxious and flogs some machines in a club that's already got some. The upshot is I've had to eat shit and stop flogging my machines to other clubs. So far as I'm concerned, that's it. Apparently not. These people I've offended get the idea that it would be good to take over my whole outfit, So I'm worried. I can't fight them I haven't that kind of setup. But I've got to fix them before they fix me. Trouble is, if I try and they find out, I'm dead.
Five grand. It belongs to you. Along with a little name I'm going to give you.
What name?
Kinnear. Cyril Kinnear. Kinnear did it.
Why?
I don't know. All I know is that people were shitting bricks up at his place last Saturday. Your brother's name was mentioned. Next day, he was dead.
Why?
I don't know. That's all I was told.
That's not good enough.
Christ, what...
Do me a favour. You don't really expect me to fix Kinnear on your sayso? Just because they tried to get me on you last night, don't think you can pull the same trick. Stroll on.
Jack, you're wrong.
Good afternoon, Mr Brumby. Carter exits.
Jack...
You shouldn't have shown the film to Frank.
I had to. It was the only way I could get at them.
What do you want?
What happened to this car?
What's it got to do with you?
This is my brother's car.
Oh ay?
Yeah.
Well, he drove it into the river.
Was the steering faulty?
What about the brakes?
Fine. Nowt wrong with them.
How'd it happen, then?
He was drunk. Drunk as a lord.
Was he?
Hello, Jack, I don't know anything, Jack.
Yes, you do, Albert. Talk or I'll kill you.
I know. I know.
You can't get away from me, Albert.
I know.
I didn't know who Doreen was. Thought she was just another bird.
Did Eric Pake pull her?
Yes.
How?
I dunno. He's got his ways. He knows Margaret.
When did you find out?
A couple of weeks back.
How?
No choice. I had a visit from somebody.
Who?
Cliff Brumby. He'd seen the film. He wanted to meet Doreen.
And you told Brumby?
Do you want to be dead, Albert?
Last Sunday afternoon, Eric and two of his boys arrive with Frank and tell me that he's rumbled. Somehow, he's seen the film and was about to shoot his mouth off. They ask me for some whisky and start forcing it down his throat. I thought they'd just duff him up a bit. Honest.
What did you do? Albert?
Nothing. What could I do?
Did Eric know that Frank was my brother?
Yes. I told him.
What did he say?
'Good.'
You knew what I'd do.
Yes, but listen. Christ, I didn't kill him.
What's the damage?
Collar bone is broken. No infection yet... the bandages should be changed twice a day.
I got a nurse in mind.
The glucose will begin working in half an hour. You'll feel better then...
The three of us are going to do some traveling. We're going to take your car to El Paso.
That's not possible. We can't leave here... we've got all this.
I've got to stop.
I'll tell you when.
Is it possible, Mrs. Clinton?
Just... tell us what you want.
What kind of car do you have, Harold?
A Ford... We have a Ford.
That's good. That's very good. Now Harold, you go out and gas up the Ford, check the oil and tires, we don't want any problems on the road. One more thing... If anybody but you comes back...
You do what he says, Harold.
After you come back I'll listen while you make some phone calls, tell a few friends you've got to leave for a week or two... You have to call another Vet about the animals. You tell him to come over and take good care of them starting tomorrow... no slipups on that. They got to be looked after...
I don't think you have to worry much about Harold. He won't do anything.
That right?
You can trust him...
How long have you been married?
Two years.
Can he trust you?
That's what matters, isn't it?
Something ought to loosen him up ... how comes we're going to El Paso, Rudy?
I Just want to find a suitcase.
Drive.
Suit yourself.
How was that?
Just fine.
Where we go in1?
Mexico. I'd like to find a quiet place to cross.
Why not?
I guess you ain't gonna shoot me, are you?
I kinda doubt it.
Let's just get to the border.
Sure thing, mister, it's coming right up. 'Bout an hour. Quiet crossing that is.
Which way?
Juarez  Chihuahua City road.
Don't you want to go to the airport?
Not now.
Listen... how much money did you make this year?
What's it to you?
Come on. How much?
'Bout five thousand.
How about if I buy your car for ten grand?
You serious?
Sure am.
And I keep my mouth shut?
That's what I want.
I don't report the car and I don't know either of you?
You got it.
How about twenty thousand?
You're going to have to walk back to the border.
Don't worry about me, I'll grab a cab... I can afford it, you know.
Well, I paid a hell of a price. Now for God's sake keep your mouth shut.
Wish you hadn't said that. When Slim Canfield's lips are sealed, they're sealed.
Go with God.
How's Mama and the kids?
Growing  all of them  every day. 318, you'll be the only ones on the floor.
My lady'11 come in in about five minutes. Have some food sent up in half an hour.
Just sandwiches...
Right.
When she gets here, have that kid of yours help her with the suitcase.
He took the day off.
Then you do it.
Can't leave the desk.
You're out of touch. Cops blew him up.
Where?
Chicago.
You were with him?
Yeah. I got out.
What about you?
Just in case someone gets a shot off.
I worked ten years without one, I don't need one now.
Suit yourself.
Okay. How many bank exits?
Two.
What about the vault?
Chambers  Reilly. Time lock opens 20 minutes before they start doing business...
Wire pull over?
Oneinch stuff on a threenumber combination.
I'm good at that.
I 'm handling the fine stuff. You're back up all the way...
Whatever you need.
I'll hang on to these. We don't need them till we get to Gollies. Okay. Any questions?
Aren't we going a little hard?
What do you have in mind?
It's just a walkin bank. You don't have to be Dillinger for this one.
Dillinger got killed.
Can I help you?
Sure can. I'd like an Invicta 12gauge pump with the twentyinch barrel.
All right. Shells?
Two boxes of doubleought buck.
Gonna knock down a wall?
Might try that.
Three years ago I dynamited some fish at the reservoir.
Oh my God.
That little job cost me a hundred dollars... didn't even get to keep the fish.
Hope you get to where you're going.
Thanks. Hope you do too.
By the way, you're getting a hell of a car there, mister.
One thing though... how do I explain this to my wife?
Tell her you robbed a bank...
That's right.
Me, too. Got twentyfour days of furlough and I'm goin' home.
Where's home?
Utah, the BeeHive state. I'm from Orem, right near Salt Lake ... Say, you wouldn't happen to be a Mormon, would you?
No, I'm not.
Me, neither. There's about twelve people in the state that aren't Mormons and I'm one of them.
That certainly makes you kind of special...
Yeah... I guess it does.
You wouldn't be taking the train to Salt Lake, would you?
No, I'm afraid not.
I never have any luck.
STANDS AND PAUSES FOR A MOMENT.
I really hope you have a nice trip.
Thanks. I hope yours is okay, too.
We'll try again.
No way. I've got to get out now.
Hello, Doc.
Hi.
You okay?
I'm a lot better off than I was an hour ago.
You want to drive?
My license expired, let's get out of here.
Sure...
I'm sorry I was late... I got my hair done... the girl was slow.
It looks fine.
Feel good?
Yeah.
Where do you want to go?
I want to take a walk.
It doesn't look like that.
What do you mean? You've never been there.
I've been there every day for the last four years.
What's Beynon got set up?
Small town, small bank, big money.
Where did you get those?
I've been doing my homework.
Just like old times?
Better than old times.
I hope so. I am not looking forward to another stretch.
I made a mistake. I'll never make another one.
Where did you get them developed?
Assumed name... Houston.
Good.
Half a million.
That Beynon's got a long arm.
What do you want for dinner?
Whisky and a peach.
How does it taste?
Just the way I remembered.
You been okay?
Pretty good... Made a quick trip to Oregon, saw my brother and the kids. Figured it would be my last chance, unless they wanted to travel.
How's Estelle?
Fatter... some things never change.
Boring.
Nothing's been boring since you found me.
That's not all of it.
No. It's been a long time.
You go out much?
After four years and now the question comes up.
Couldn't handle it then. Now I can.
I'm still here, Doc.
I guess I'm kind of...
It's all right.
It's just been a while.
We've got time. We've got a lot of time. I can help you.
Wait... give me a minute.
Sure.
I'll be okay.
Listen, I'm just as nervous as you are.
Really?
Really.
How was it?
Better than I remembered.
I was going to fix you breakfast.
You were asleep.
I bought you a lot of new things.
Yeah, well, I think I'll stick with what I've got.
Suit yourself.
$250,000 right off the top.
Is he straight?
You got the parole, didn't you?
Thanks again. I 'm glad you waited.
I couldn't have... much longer.
Yeah... I know.
But I got you out. Didn't I, Doc. I did it. I got you out.
Why are you laughing?
I laugh when I feel happy. Sometimes just thinking of you made me laugh. I had a lot of that. And other times that wasn't enough. I had a lot of that too. I know you find it hard to believe, I'm happy just loving you.
That doesn't hurt.
But sometimes I cried a lot too.
I didn't. I just waited.
Want to cry now?
... Bank President, three tellers and one guard...
Usually on the right side as you go in.
Nail him first, be careful he doesn't panic and want to shoot somebody. Local police have one car, a rover, shouldn't be in the vicinity at the time we hit unless it's answering an emergency call... if the cop car shows up remember it doesn't have any automatic weapons. Only a shotgun braced on the dashboard. Get into a tight spot, you'll be out of range at forty yards. Then they're down to their side guns.
For exits off Main Street.
Should be light traffic that time of day... the Bank Guard carries a .38. These will stop an M.2 at fifty yards.
Keep going over these. I don't want anybody getting lost.
If we are clean Gollie will take us over at Nogales. If we are hot we'll have to try Laughlin at El Paso.
You know how I feel?
My mind's not on guessing games.
Promise you won't laugh.
If it's funny I'm going to laugh.
I feel like the night before the first day of school.
That bad?
It will be such a relief not to have to think about it any more.
Waiting's hard. You never learn how.
You know I've actually gotten tired waiting sometimes... worn out waiting.
At least you were outside.
It doesn!t make much difference where you are, if you're waiting, Doc.
Bullshit.
I mean it.
I know you do. But it is different. It's different. We'll be all right tomorrow.
We are always going to be all right tomorrow. I'd like to be all right a few todays.
We're going to have a lot of those, We're just going to get the money and then go all the way.
... and live happily ever after.
What about the bank?
Jackson panicked and nailed the guard.
Doc...
I see it...
They checked in.
Call the ranch, tell Beynotr we'll leave his cut here 
Why?
There are three men dead.
So what. I've got to give him his money. That was our end of the deal.
He might be ready to chop us up.
Do it my way.
Tell me about Beynon's ranch.
I've never "been there... When we met it was in his office.
Do you trust him?
I just figure the percentages. He wouldn't try a cross until he's got the money.
Let's send his cut back  Just keep going.
If we make a mistake., he'll burn us. You make a deal, you're always better keeping your end up.
I don't want to go there.
Do it my way.
Why didn't you tell me?
There wasn't any way to explain it.
Yeah.
You sent me to him.
When I got out, why didn't you tell me where it was?
What the hell do you want? Mary Tyler Moore?
Who's she?
She's on TV.
If you don't start telling the truth...
What do we do?
We keep going.
A man helped me open it...
And switched keys.
He must have.
It isn't another boyfriend, is it?
How long ago.
Fifteen minutes.
Sure?
There better be a guy with the
You bastard...
Your kind of mistakes are going to land me back in Huntsville.
I wouldn't worry Doc. I can always get you out... I'll screw every prison official in Texas if I have to.
Texas is a big state.
I can handle it.
I'll bet you can.
You'd do the same for me, wouldn't you, Doc? If I was caught, wouldn't you?
When we had trouble before it was different.
You don't like the way things are, I don't like the way things
What do you want to do?
Maybe we should split up... I'll cut the money with you.
Do you mean that?
I mean it.
We'll grab a room for tonight then you go out tomorrow and buy yourself some new clothes, pick some up for me... Grab some food now, paper bag it, we eat in the room.
You've got all the answers. What about when they find the body on the train?
When they find it, they find it.
You've got it all figured.
No... there's a couple of things I'm still working on.
Like what?
There may be a hunting party.
Why, there's nothing on the news?
I didn't mean police.
What?
If Beynon bought him out, and he talked then maybe Beynon's boys will be waiting for us in El Paso.
You're full of ifs.
I think you liked it with him.
Maybe. At least I got to him. Where do we go from here?
El Paso.
That would be the first time.
When are you going to learn?
I did I killed a man.
From now on you just shut up and do as you're told.
If I hadn't killed Beynon., you would have.
You can't trust anything these days.
I'll tell you something, Doc. One day you're going to have to trust somebody...
I trust... Want to see what I trust... In God we trust... The word's on every bill!!!
You keep it up and it won't matter how far we get away, because it's going to be all over between you and me. Do you understand that? There won't be anything left.
Only one car.
Let's do it.
Where are you going?
El Paso.
How much?
Twenty eight hundred.
Are you hungry?
Not now.
Okay?
I think so... I don't know.
No scars?
No scars.
Do what I tell you, it's not a game.
It's all a game, don't bother me.
We better stick here till tonight.
Yeah.
We're going to make it.
Sure...
I want to say something.
I don't want to hear it.
Listen to me. It's hard enough.
Look, what you said yesterday... I guess that was right. It isn't worth anything if we don't make it together.
I don't think we can any more... If we ever get out of here, maybe I should take off...
We got this far.
We've come a lot of miles. But we're not close to anything.
I guess you're right.
I always thought jails make people hard. Not you. You're just not tough enough to forget about Beynon. I chose you, not him.
Either we pick it up or else we leave it right here. We got to go one way or another.
No more about Beynon.
Whatever happens it's over.
Sounds good.
You want to try with me?
Things can't get much worse can they?
I don't see how.
Okay.
You and me.
Can we make it?
We get to Mexico, we can have a life.
That's all I want... It's the only thing I have ever wanted.
We've got some food coming, should be here any minute.
Great. I'm going to sleep twelve hours.
Ten. Laughlin's going to take us across at four A.M.
Oh, Jesus... how?
Jeep. There's a dry river bed fifteen miles east. He takes us to the Mexican side, drops us off at the airfield by breakfast... we've got a 9 o'clock flight.
I'll be ready.
Yeah.
What's wrong?
I don't know.
Get in the shower. You'll feel okay.
Whatever you say.
What is it?
Laughlin. He's always got his family around... that wife and kid of his have to stand by his side to make sure he stays off the juice and horses.
So what?
If they are not here, he must have sent them away.
You're crazy.
Get your clothes on, move your butt.
Come on, come on.
Who was it?
Just get your clothes on...
You okay?
Where do we go from here?
I don't know, airport I guess.
They will have our description before we can get a plane.
Yeah.
How long before this car's hot?
Pull over.
Are we going to make it?
Hell, I don't know... but we sure gave it a run.
Whatever happens... we're going all the way.
Yeah, why not? We're the good guys.
I guess we are.
What now?
We walk.
You gotta be kidding.
Not at all, just a pleasant way to have lunch.
All it takes is a long arm.
Hard to judge how these things happen. The Parole Board almost never reverses their decisions.
I guess it was because I was a model prisoner.
This is the only time you and I meet in public. Any business with me, handle it with him...
You're back with your own people now. Got you some professionals.
I get my own help.
You run the job, but I run the show. You got two weeks to set it up.
What about them?
They're mine. The one with the moustache is my brother. They stay out of it. We stay clean.
Rudy Butler, Frank Jackson...
I heard about you. You work with Miller.
Sure, You're working on the passports... ... and visas?
They will be ready. You guys do your job.
I'll take care of my end.
Stay clean.
Hello, McCoy.
Beynon.
News said two persons killed.
Three... Rudy got ambitious.
And you got him...
That's right.
What about your wife?
What about her? Let's c ut up the money, I want to get North.
You hired Jackson and Rudy., not me.
They may nail me into this now, McCoy.
That's your problem.
You know, you and I may be two of a kind.
No way. I always do my own work.
I'm in a hurry.
You still don't get the picture do you? I've always heard what a smart ass operator you are.
No applause!
A simple reason, McCoy. The obvious reason. To rob a bank.
I knew that life didn't add up to the obvious when I was 8.
What do you add up to here?
One. The radio's rappin' about $750^000. We only got a half a million.
A little more was taken out before. My brother's a director of that Bank, Mr. McCoy... I had a few pressing debts.
So we did that crackerbox... to cover for you.
The obvious. But we are both not interested in that right now.
No. My old lady must have made a lot of promises.
Close... but it takes a hell of a lot more than promises to pull the kind of strings I pulled.
I bet.
Don't think too badly of her... After all, you were in jail a long time and she is a healthy young woman.
Get it over with...
What are you doing?
I can't do this.
I told you, the government pays. It's all taken care of.
No, you don't understand. I <i>can't</i>.
The doctor will give you something.
I'm not doing it.
Honey, you've made <i>one</i> mistake
I've read your profile. I don't know about the father but you carry enough hereditary factors on your own. You can have other children.
Not like <i>this</i> one.
Honey, look around you. The world doesn't want one like <i>that</i> one.
The name? For the certificate.
Antonio
Jerome...never shy. Pisses on command. You've got a beautiful cock. I ever told you that, Jerome?
Only every time I'm in here.
If everything goes to plan, this could be the last time I see you for a while. One week to go. Please tell me you're the least bit excited.
I'll tell you at the end of the week.
I've got enough here.
Need any more, you can always get it off his shoes.
What's this, Lamar?
New policy.
Flight got you nervous?
There's a problem, Lamar.
Did I ever tell you about my son, Jerome? He's a big fan of yours. He wants to apply here.
Just remember, Lamar, I could have gone up and back and nobody would have been the wiser
Unfortunately my son's not all that they promised. But then, who know what he could do.
No bother.
I've been asked to compile a log for the investigatorsthey want to know everyone's whereabouts last night.
Last night? I was at home.
Can that be, er, verified? Were you alone?
No it can't be verified. Yes I was alone.
Looks bad, doesn't it, Irene? What about <i>you?</i> Where were you last night?
I was at home.
Were <i>you</i> alone?
Yes.
So we don't know for sure about you, either.
No.
Why don't we say we were together?
Why would we do that?
I have better things to do this week than answer the foolish questions of some flatfoot. Don't you?
I'm sorry. I didn't mean anything.
We were just looking.
I know about you.
Have they found our friend?
Friend?
It was a mercykilling after all.
They found an eyelash.
Where?
In the South Wing.
Does it have a name?
Just some InValid. Vincent somebody.
Perhaps we ought to celebrate, Irene.
You celebrate, Jerome?
You didn't know?
Yes...<i>yes</i>...
You're angry
Why would I be angry? It was beautiful.
I envy you, Jerome.
You'll be next.
I don't think so. The only trip I'll make in space is around the sun on this satellite right here.
It's here. My heart. I'm carefulweekly checkups. I'm on a drug maintenance program, blood thinners, diet I just want you to know what you'd be getting yourself into.
What exactly is wrong?
Nothing yet. I'll start experiencing symptoms in my latefifties. But unless they come up with something between now and then, I won't live much past 67.
Of course I think about it every day.
Of course.
So you didn't do it after all.
I guess somebody beat me to it.
What <i>is</i> this place?
You've never been here? Let me order for you.
Why are we leaving?
Those checks take forever.
What about the car?
Let's walk.
Who are they?
It's not safe. I shouldn't have brought you here.
I can't.
Come on.
My medication. I left it back there.
We'll get it later. Irene, please.
What happened?
You remember the '99 Chrysler LeBaron? It's the exact height of the front fender. Looked right instead of left.
So you're not so smart after all. I want you to knowif it ever came to it I'd be willing to get an ovum from the Egg Bank. In fact, I'd <i>rather</i> use a donor egg <i>if</i> it came to it.
But "if it came to it" then it couldn't have your nose. How perfect does your child have to be?
You hypocrite. Do you think for one moment you'd be doing what you're doing if it wasn't for who you are<i>what</i> you are? Don't you get <i>any</i> satisfaction knowing that your children will be able to live to a ripe old age unless they do something foolish?
That's precisely what <i>scares</i>methat they won't do anything <i>foolish</i> or <i>courageous</i> or <i>anything</i>worth a Goddamn.
What is it?
I forgot somethingsomething at home. I'll see you later.
when you go away.
We could go together one day.
A year is a long time.
Not so longjust once around the sun.
My wife and Iwe're thinking of starting a family.
Why not?
These new personality corrections I've been reading about.
You worried about the cost?
Not that.
They said the same thing about myopia and obesity. You think your children would be less human if they were less violent, angry, spiteful? Maybe they'd be <i>more</i> human. From where I sit the world could stand a little improving.
Hugo! I've found him!
I've found him too.
A fingerprint. There's something to be said for nostalgia. What did you find?
What do you think?
I think I could do something provided you know what you're doing and you can meet the terms.
Vincent...Vincent...
German, is that you?
Vincent, come down. I've found him.
He has the heart of an ox. He could run through a Goddamn wallif he could still run. Actually, he was a big college swimming star.
I hope he's not just a body.
No problem. Before he dropped out he was an honor student, the right majors
How do I square the accident?
It happened in Australasia. He checked in yesterday. No family complications, no record he ever broke his neck. As far as anybody's concerned, he's still a walking, talking, fullyproductive member of society. You just have to get him off the pipe and fill in the last two years of his life. Excuse me, <i>your</i> life.
GERMAN +++$+++
That's the hair color in his profile?
Yeah.
I'd have to bleach my hair.
Why are you inventing problems? You two are a couple of goddam clones. You look so right together, I want to double my fee.
How tall are you?
You can wear lifts.
Even with lifts I'm never that tall.
There's a way.
First, we may as well decide on gender. Have you given it any thought?
We would like Vincent to have a brother... you know, to play with.
You've already specified blue eyes, dark hair and fair skin. I have taken the liberty of eradicating any potentially prejudicial conditions  premature baldness, myopia, alcoholism and addictive susceptibility, propensity for violence and obesity
We didn't want<i>diseases</i>, yes.
Anything I've forgotten?
We want himwe were hoping he would get married and have children. We'd like grandchildren.
I understand. That's already been taken care of. Now you appreciate I can only work with the raw material I have at my disposal but for a little extra...I could also attempt to insert sequences associated with enhanced mathematical or musical ability.
Antonio, the choir...
I have to caution you it's not foolproof. With multigene traits there can be no guarantees.
What will happen to the others?
They are not babies, Maria, merely "human possibilities".
I have to know where you come from.
If anybody asks, tell them the truth your family disowns you. You are a disappointment, Jerome.
What about this?
Wrong color. It's silver. It's not easy living up to this.
It needs work.
You had to be a righthander.
Noone orders southpaws anymore.
You really need that much?
<i>More</i> than that. You'll get used to it.
God, what <i>wouldn't</i> you do to leave the planet?
Leave? Just a few million years ago every atom in this hairin our bodieswas a part of a star. I don't see it as leaving. I see it as going home.
God, you're serious, aren't you?
It's not too late to back out.
You don't know what a relief it is not to be me. Are you sure <i>you</i> want the job?
What about you? What's in this for you, Eugene?
Listen, I bag this stuff anyway. It may as well pay my rent.
Who died?
The Mission Director.
You wish.
They found him in his office this morning beaten so bad they had to check his nametag.
What an act of benevolencea service to the community. So that's it. Now there's nothing between you and ignition.
He was still warm when they confirmed.
This calls for a celebration. Doesn't it?
The place is crawling with Hoovers.
So what? You didn't kill him, did you?
That's not the point.
Hey, how much of you can be there? Even if the "J. Edgars" do find something, in a week you'll be slightly out of their jurisdiction. Come on, we've got to get drunk immediately.
You're going to have to earn your supper. I've got my final physical tomorrow.
Let's get out of here.
You're right, there's more atmosphere where you're going.
I gotta stop!! I gotta stop!!
Keep going!! Keep going!!
At least up there your piss will be worth something. You'll all be showering in it, right?
And drinking it. It's like Evian by the time it's filtered.
What <i>is</i> that one?
11.15 to the port. A maintenance crew.
How long do you stay up there before you go?
A day or so.
I still can't believe they're sending you to the Beltyou of all peoplenever meant to be born, on a mission to discover the origin of life.
Up there they wouldn't be a problem.
You know I'm scared of heights.
I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
It's okay, Eugene.
You know I wasn't drunkI knew what I was doing when I walked in front of that car
What car?Go to sleep.
I walked right in front of it. I was never more sober in my life.
It's all right.
I'm proud of you, Vincent.
Call German.
Any particular reason?
We can't stay here.
What are you talking about?
They think I offed the Director.
What makes them think that?
They found my eyelash.
Where?
In a corridor.
Could be worse. They could have found it in your eye.
Come onwe're taking off.
I'm not going anywhere. Less than a week to go. Not on your life
You don't understand, they'll make the connection, they'll hoover again. We should cut our losses.
Where is your head, Jerome? You're acting like a guilty man. They won't marry the eyelash to you. They won't believe that one of their elite navigators could have suckered them for the last five years.
They'll recognize me.
How could they recognize you? <i>I</i> don't recognize you. Anyway, you don't have a choice. You run, you may as well sign a confession, turn us both in right now. No, we stick this out find out what we can but change nothing. This is a minor inconvenience is all it is. We've taken worse heat than this. Jesus, if I'd known you were going to go belly up on me at the last fucking gasp, I wouldn't have bothered. You can't quit on me now. I've put too much into this. Besides, this stuff is <i>mine</i>. I had other offers, you know. I could have rented myself out to somebody with a spine. You want me to wheel in there and finish the job myself? We'll take off all right, from pad 18 just like we planned.
And keep your lashes on your lids where they belong. How could you be so careless?
I'm sorry. I think I was crying.
You really had other offers?
I'm sure I could have.
So it's not just the Hoovers who've got you rattled.
You're the one who said not to change anything. She's my ear to the investigation.
Is that all?
I've got enough on my mind without that.
If you say so. The stripe.
Good choice.
Not thirsty? We've got enough virgin samples to last us the week.
I don't feel too good. I think I'm still drunk from last night.
Never stopped you before. And for God's sake stop plucking your hair. Someone went to a lot of trouble to make sure you wouldn't go bald.
If I were you I'd worry about myself. Haven't you forgotten something?
How was your evening?
Complicated. I couldn't stop her apologizing.
You <i>are</i> a catch. No doubt she's worried that she would lower the standard of your offspring. Everybody wants to "breed up". What's wrong with her?
You know how it is with these altered births somebody told her she's not going to live forever and she's been preparing to die ever since.
You're not thinking of telling her, are you?
Of course not. But she's have to know eventually.
She doesn't <i>have</i> to know. She doesn't <i>want</i> to know.
Where are we going?
I'm sorry. I've got plans.
Again?
She's already got her doubts. I have to act like nothing's wrong.
I'm sure you'll be very convincing.
Where are you taking her?
Michael's.
Everybody goes there.
You may as well invite her here.
Will you be okay?
Don't worry about your little pin cushion. To be honest, I'm looking forward to having the place to myself.
We'll still be able to talk when I'm away. The conversation will just keep getting longer.
How long?
By the time I'm at the Belt, you phone and say, "How are you?" Fortyfive minutes later I reply, "Not bad. How are you?"
I guess I'd better have something important to say if it takes that long to get an answer.
Hello?
How would you like to be yourself for the day?
I was never very good at it, remember?
How are you, Jerome?
Not bad, Jerome.
How the hell did you get here.
I could always walk. I've been faking it.
I have your samples ready.
Have you forgotten? I don't need any samples where I'm going.
No, but you might need them when you get back.
Why have you done this?
In case you get back before I do.
Where are you going?
I'm travelling too.
Thank you.
I got the better end of the deal. I just lent you my bodyyou lent me your dream.
Okay, how tall did you <i>used</i> to be?
Six one.
He's too tall.
You okay, Jerome?
Yeah. You want to go dancing tonight?
What's wrong with it?
I think I'd better choose the menu. After all, you're learning how to be me, I'm not learning how to be <i>you</i>.
Suit yourself.
Listen, I don't want you to think I'm ungrateful I know you and that little brokerwhat do you call him?
German.
You're both going to a lot of trouble Maybe you can con somebody into believing you're me to get your foot in the doorbut once you're inside, you're on your own. I'm sure you're sincere... ...but I was being groomed for something like this myself. Even without the accident I don't think I would have made it. My point ishow the hell do <i>you</i> expect to pull this off?
I don't know exactly, Jerome.
At least you're honest. Call me by my middle nameEugeneIf you're going to be Jerome, you may as well start getting used to it.
Hello.
Jerome?
Hello, sweatheart. Come on up.
Good to see you're feeling better.
Now <i>you're</i> here. Who are your "friends"?
It's about the Director.
Again?
That's where we get rid of the traces of him although we never truly succeeded.
I've been looking for him. Do you know where he is?
He's probably leaving some more of me around the place before he goes.
Don't be deceived, Irene. These are just the clothes. He has to wear them. Something I could never do.
What's wrong with him?
You have more in common than you know.
How often do you test, Director?
Often.
Surely you know what you have.
We have to be certain. Once they're up, we can hardly turn the boat around.
We believe we have a suspect.
What a relief.
This unaccountable specimen was found in the south wing corridor.
Would you care to lookin the telescope?
Thank you, no.
One look through there and you would know why I can't possibly allow you to disrupt operations any further.
You're so unconcerned that you have a killer in your midst.
Right now, <i>your</i> presence is creating more of a threat. I don't think you have any concept of what we do herehow meticulous our preparations must be. We are about to send twelve people through 140 million miles of blackness to rendezvous with an object the size of a house and the color of coal. So it's rather critical to point them in the right direction. And we certainly don't need you looking over our shoulders. Besides, I don't believe there is any evidence that the killer <i>is</i> amongst us. I don't see too many other dead bodies littering the place.
No, but since there aren't too many <i>live</i> ones tonight either, you won't mind us conducting one further sweep. If he does not work here, then there should be no other trace of him. I think you'd better get some people out of bed, Detective. In the meantime we can recheck his favorite haunt.
Twelve have a mission within the week.
This time I will supervise each test personally.
At least it's nothing contagious.
I will not permit any further testing on the eve of a mission. We're already counting backwards.
I don't understand why you were dragged out here, Sir. It's hardly worth wasting your timea nonothing case like this.
A man's dead, Detective.
Of course, Sir. We're checking the entry log, alibis, grudges...
Grudges?
I look around, I see a lot of dry eyes. The Director was not... ...universally loved. He was leading the cutbacks in the program. You're looking at a room full of motives.
No, <i>this</i> is your man.
With respect, Sirit may be the only unaccountable specimen but the profile suggests
What <i>about</i> his profile?
According to this, he's a sick man. Congenital heart condition. Who knows how long the specimen has been here but there's an 80 percent chance the owner of that eyelash has already died himself from natural causes.
So there's a 20 percent chance he's <i>not</i> dead.
Even if this Vincent Luca <i>is</i> alive, is it likely he could bludgeon a man to death?
No. Not <i>likely</i>.
Of course that doesn't jibe with what we found. This was an angry killing.
Who knows with these "deficients"? His profile indicates a proclivity for violence.
I'll run a crossover on the eyelash for any family or associate connections
I've already run it. There's no record of any living relative.
What a pity.
Detective Hugo, it's a simple case of lost and found. All we have to do is locate the man who's minus an eyelash and this murder will solve itself.
We're in the wrong place. We're wasting time.
This <i>is</i> the most likely location
There's that word again. I have a feeling This man doesn't play the odds, Detective. Not exactly a slave to probability. Is it "likely" that a man who has successfully eluded authorities for fifteen yearsa brutal killeris going to come to us now like a lamb?
Is there something more we should know about this suspect, Sir? I mean besides what's on his sheet.
Since going underground, traces of this InValid have shown up at the scene of four serious felonies. Do you need any more than that?
With respect, Sir, many perfectly innocent citizens have left specimens at as many crime scenes. Maybe he's just unlucky.
I don't like anybody <i>this</i> unlucky. Widen the sweep. The West side. Draw a five mile radius around Gattaca. Hoover some of the classier establishments. Random car stops.
We're already getting complaints about frivolous search.
This is a murder investigation. The public should be happy to cooperate, to get this disease off the streets.
The skin flake was found in Michael's Restaurant. The employees are all accounted for.
A customer? Does this Michael's cater to misfits?
No. But one or two "borrowed ladders" have shown up there in the past.
Of course. He's a "degeneerate". He works at Gattaca. Why else would we find the eyelash near the washroom? Nobody stops to take a leak during a murder.
It's still possible the eyelash specimen came from a janitor, delivery manit could have blown in through an open window.
He was afraid of being exposed. That's why he did it.
It is hard to believe he could be one of their elite workers. You've seen their security system. They know who works there. Even if you ignore the man's expiration date, his profile suggests that he doesn't have the mathematical propensity let alone the stamina to pass their physicals.
Don't underestimate these imposters.
None of the ID photos match the enhancement.
A man can change his facebut blood is forever. Sample every employee within the parameters I gave you. Intravenous.
You know their workforce. Twothirds at least fall into the category. We'll be closing down their operation for days. At least go with a fingertip sample or urine.
Blood. From the vein.
That's the last.
Something's not right.
He's not here. It's a blind alley.
No, we've missed something. We Hoover again.
We don't have the manpower.
Get it. From outside, if you have to.
From what budget?
I'll take it out of your damn <i>pension</i> if you question my authority one more time!
What are you waiting for?
Where do we start?
We'll vacuum these streets if we have to.
Positive saliva match. The cup was definitely used since the original sweep.
So we have two choices. Either our suspect came back to the murder scene for a drink of water and I don't know anybody that thirsty or... ...he <i>is</i> here. We test again. You're right, Hugo, this was a desperate act. Someone had a lot to lose that nightperhaps their place in line. I'd like the profiles of everyone with an upcoming mission.
We found his spit in the dead director's eye. He's signed a confessionsupplied us with the suit he wore on the night. What more do you want?
Luca could still be an accomplice.
It's not <i>exactly</i> him.
Where did you get this?
So you've finally seen sense and come back to your old job, Vincent.
Not yet, I'm afraid.
No? What's keeping you?
I guess I'm a slow learner.
I guess so. Well, while you're up there, maybe you could tidy the place up a bit.
I'll see what I can do.
And don't go getting everybody lost out there. You'll give us a bad name. You won't have me to keep an eye on you, you know.
By the way, I left some trash in your locker.
I'll take care of it.
We were wondering if we should leave some things to chance.
You want to give your child the best possible start. Believe me, we have enough imperfection builtin already. Your child doesn't need any additional burdens. And keep in mind, this child is still you, simply the <i>best</i> of you. You could conceive naturally a thousand times and never get such a result.
He's right, Maria. That's right.
Is there any reason you'd want a lefthanded child?
Er, no...
Some believe it is associated with creativity, although there's no evidence. Also for sports like baseball it can be an advantage.
I like football.
I have to warn you, Mr Luca, he's going to be at least a head taller than you. Prepare for a crick in the neck in sixteen years time.
How much extra?
It would be five thousand more.
I'm sorry, there's no way we can.
Don't worry. You'll probably do just as well singing to him in the womb. We can implant the most successful preembryo tomorrow afternoon.
You almost sound like you believe that.
Come with me now, Vincent. You've gone as far as you can go.
There are a few million miles to go yet.
It's over.
Is that the only way you can succeed, Anton, to see me fail?
It's for the best.
God, even <i>you</i> want to tell me what I <i>can't</i> do. In case you hadn't noticed, Anton, I don't need rescuing. But <i>you</i> did, once.
Well? You have all the answers. How is that possible?
You didn't beat me that day. I beat <i>myself</i>.
Who are you trying to convince?
I will prove it to you. Come swim with me now, Vincent. Nowtonight.
How are you doing this, Vincent? How have you done <i>any</i> of this?
Now is your chance to find out.
Vincent, where's the shore? We're too far out. We have to go back!
Too late for that. We're closer to the other side.
Ah  we should invite Gandhi. What the devil has happened to him anyway?
He's "discovering" India.
Have you read his magazine?
No  but I think I'm going to.
Bapu, for me, and the rest, if that is what you want, we will accept it. But out there already there is rioting because Hindus fear you are going to give too much away.
If you did this, no one could control it. No one.
He was right. It's insane  anything would have been better.
Have you found him?
In Calcutta it's like civil war. The Muslims rose and there was a bloodbath, and now the Hindus are taking revenge  and if we can't stop it there'll be no hope for the Hindus left in Pakistan.
...an eye for an eye making the whole world blind.
Could we cut all news off? I know 
Bapu  please. Where are you going.
And that's the basis of this "Declaration of Independence"?
Yes, sir. The day he sets off everyone is supposed to raise the flag of "Free India." Then he walks some two hundred and forty miles to the sea and makes salt.
...There's been no time to keep figures, but there must be ninety  a hundred thousand under arrest. And it still goes on.
Who's leading them?
I don't know! Nehru, Patel, almost every Congress Official is in jail... and their wives and their children  we've even arrested Nehru's mother.
He's addressed this letter directly to you, has he?
Yes, sir, he has. The usual  India's salt belongs to India  but then he says flatly that he personally is going to lead a raid tomorrow on the Dharasana Salt Works.
Thank him for his letter, and put him in jail.
Will you have a glass of sherry?
Thank you. No.
Perhaps some tea?
I dined at the prison.
Ahh.
Mr. Gandhi, I've more or less decided to ask the House to repeal the Act that you have taken such "exception" to.
Well, if you ask, General Smuts, I'm sure it will be done.
Hm. Of course it is not quite that simple.
Somehow I expected not.
I'm glad to hear you say that... very glad. You see if we repeal the Act under pressure under this kind of pressure it will create a great deal of resentment. Can you understand that?
Very well.
Good. Good. I have thought of calling for a Royal Commission to "investigate" the new legislation. I think I could guarantee they would recommend the Act be repealed.
I congratulate them.
You're an extraordinary man.
I assure you I feel a very ordinary man at this moment.
Assuming we are in agreement?
Yes  yes. It's just that... in these clothes I'd  I'd prefer to go by taxi.
All right. Fine.
I'm  I'm afraid I have no money.
Oh! Neither have I. I'm awfully sorry.
In England, I was a poor student but I 
That was England.
You mean you employ Mr. Baker as your attorney, but you can't walk down the street with him?
I can. But I risk being kicked into the gutter by someone less "holy" than Mr. Baker.
Well, then, it must be fought. We are children of God like everyone else.
Allah be praised. And what battalions will you call upon?
I  I will write to the press  here  and in England. And I will use the courts.
They're sparing no one, I see.
No. You were the surprise. It's been all over the prison. We thought they'd be too afraid of the English press.
So did I.
I don't know who they've left out there to do the work. There can't be one mine left open. Have they touched the women?
My wife publicly defied the law. They've arrested her and four others.
The fools! Sorry...
It's split the Government.
Well, that's one victory.
If we hold firm, it won't be the last.
Don't worry  I've never seen men so determined. You've given them a way to fight... And I don't think 
Who is that young man?
That's young Nehru. He's got his father's intellect, his mother's looks and the devil's charm. If they don't ruin him at Cambridge  Wave! Wave!  he may amount to something.
I must say when I first saw you as a bumbling lawyer here in Bombay I never thought I'd be greeting you as a national hero.
I'm hardly that, Mr. Patel.
Oh, yes, you are. It's been two hundred years since an Indian has cocked a snoot at the British Empire and got away with it. And stop calling me Mr. Patel, you're not a junior clerk anymore.
No.
I am beginning to know Mr. Nehru.
Well, I've called you here because I've had a chance to see the new legislation. It's exactly what was rumored. Arrest without warrant. Automatic imprisonment for possession of materials considered seditious...
It must have been the only Nonviolent campaign ever led by a man who wanted to kill everybody every day.
Not true! The secret is mastering the urge.
They are preparing for war. I will not support it, but I do not intend to take advantage of their danger.
That's when you take advantage.
We need your help!
There is nothing I can give.
We hope you intend to join us in the struggle for Home Rule, Mr. Gandhi.
I 
The honor is ours. May I introduce Mr. Kallenbach. He's an old friend and his interest is in flowers. I presumed to tell him he could wander your gardens while we talked.
I'll send my gardener. I'm sure you'll have much to discuss.
You mean a general strike?
I mean a day of prayer and fasting. But of course no work could be done  no buses, no trains, no factories, no administration. The country would stop.
After what they did at the massacre  it's only an eye for an eye.
An eye for an eye only ends up making the whole world blind. We must stop.
I will not sit by to see the mastery of the British replaced by the mastery of the Hindus!
Muslim and Hindu are the right and left eye of India. No one will be slave, no one master.
It has. But you'd be surprised. They understand  they really do. It's not the workers you have to worry about.
Good. Ba will have to teach you to spin too.
I would rather march.
First spin. Let the others march for a time.
Do you find me stubborn?
I don't know... I know you are right. I don't know that this is right.
I'm sure I'm fit for at least five hundred miles.
You should ride the pony. It is not necessary to walk to prove the point.
It is foolish if it is just to save the life of an old man.
No... no. In every temple and mosque they have pledged to die before they lift a hand against each other.
Without a paper  a journal of some kind  you cannot unite a community. You belong to a very important profession.
Hm. And what should an "important professional" write about your response to General Smuts's new legislation?
I don't know... I'm still searching for a "response."
You will respect the law.
There are unjust laws  as there are unjust men.
Well, it's quite a place, your "ashram"  is that right?
That's right. The word only means "community." But it could stand for "village"... or the world.
You're an ambitious man.
I hope not.
It's beautiful.
Even as a boy I thought so.
And you've come all this way because you think something is going to happen?
Hm. Is it?
Perhaps. I've come here to think about it.
Do you remember much of South Africa?
A great deal.
I've traveled so far  and thought so much. As you can see, my city was a sea city  always filled with Hindus and Muslims and Sikhs and Jews and Persians. The temple where you were yesterday is of my family's sect, the Pranami. It was Hindu of course but the priests used to read from the Muslim Koran and the Hindu Gita, moving from one to the other as though it mattered not at all which book was read as long as God was worshipped.
You've done me a great service.
It would have been uncivil of me to have let you make such a long trip for nothing.
Is it over if they arrest you now?
Not if they arrest me  or a thousand  or ten thousand. It is not only generals who know how to plan campaigns.
Are you going to walk all the way?
My name is Walker. And I intend to report it the way it is.
We only make wild speeches, or perform even wilder acts of terrorism. We've bred an army of anarchists but not one single group that can really fight the British anywhere.
I thought you were against fighting.
Fortunately such news comes very slowly where I live.
I think if we all worked to publicize it... all of the Congress... every avenue we know.
Maybe I'm wrong... maybe we're not ready yet. In South Africa the numbers were small...
The Government's afraid, and they don't know what to do. But they're more afraid of terrorists than of you. The Viceroy has agreed to your release if you will speak for non violence.
I've never spoken for anything else.
What can we do?
We must end the campaign.
If we obtain our freedom by murder and bloodshed I want no part of it.
It was one incident.
Tell that to the families of the policemen who died.
I don't believe it  even the British can't be that stupid!
Panditji  please, help me.
And Jinnah?
He's waiting. He's not prepared to accept it will mean as much as you think.
Wait and see... wait and see...
They are only clinging to old dreams and trying to split us in the old way. But the will has gone  Independence will drop like a ripe apple. The only question is when and how.
I say when is now  and we will determine how.
What do you want?
That the fighting will stop  that you make me believe it will never start again.
Tell me  do you think about hell?
"Hell!"
No  neither do I. But... but this man is a Christian and he has written 
Excuse me, baas, but how long have you been in South Africa?
A  a week.
Well, I don't know how you got a ticket for 
I'll take your luggage back, baas.
No, no  just a moment, please.
...and I knew something had to give. And I was determined to be here when it did.
How does a reporter in Central America learn that Gandhi was born in Porbandar anyway?
Oh, I've been a Gandhi buff for a long time.
You mean Gandhi?
Back in South Africa... long time ago.
What was he like?
Lots of hair... and a little like a college freshman  trying to figure everything out.
Well, he must've found some of the answers...
What'd he say?
He said he's in charge...
You'd be Gandhi  ...I thought you'd be bigger.
I'm sorry.
I  I mean it's all right. It doesn't matter. I'm  my name is Andrews, Charlie Andrews. I've come from India  I've read a great deal about you.
Some of it good, I hope.
You're a clergyman.
Yes. I've  I've met some very remarkable people in India... and  and when I read what you've been doing here, I  I wanted to help. Does that surprise you?
Not anymore. At first I was amazed... but when you are fighting in a just cause, people seem to pop up  like you  right out of the pavement. Even when it is dangerous or 
That was lucky.
I thought you were a man of God.
I am. But I'm not so egotistical as to think He plans His day around my dilemmas.
That's the sort of thing you'll be seeking on this "farm"...
Well, we shall try.
No violence, please.
Let me hang on with two hands or I will fall.
What are you doing?
Going nearer to God!
Not quite. They're only "holding me" until the Magistrate's hearing. Then it will be prison.
Did they take your clothes?
If I want to be one with them, I have to live like them.
I think you do. But I thank God we all don't.
I'm sure your legs are quite as handsome as mine.
Ah, but my puritanism runs the another way. I'm far too modest for such a display.
They're calling you "Bapu." I thought it meant father.
It does. We must be getting old, Charlie.
No  prison is rather agreeable to me, and there is no doubt that after the war, independence will come. My only worry is what shape it will take. Jinnah has 
Stop!
"...what shape it will take." Jinnah has  what?
Jinnah has  has cooperated with the British. It has given him power and the freedom to speak, and he has filled the Muslims with fears of what will happen to them in a country that is predominantly Hindu. That I find hard to bear  even in prison.
But do you really believe you could use nonviolence against someone like Hitler?
Not without defeats  and great pain. But are there no defeats in this war  no pain? What you cannot do is accept injustice. From Hitler  or anyone. You must make the injustice visible  be prepared to die like a soldier to do so.
Is my finger supposed to be wrapped around that?
No. That is what you get for distracting me.
What do you expect when you talk like that?
I expect you to show as much patience as I am now.
You really are going to Pakistan, then? You are a stubborn man.
I'm simply going to prove to Muslims there, and Hindus here, that the only devils in the world are those running around in our own hearts  and that's where all our battles ought to be fought.
Enough.
One more.
Just an admirer...
Nothing's more dangerous, especially for an old man.
"A high court judge has confirmed that Mr. Gandhi would have been within his rights to prosecute for assault since neither he nor Mr. Khan resisted arrest."  I told you about English law.
As I told you about English policemen.
Just like proper English gentlemen. I'm proud of them.
They are boys.  And they're Indian.
Here, you see? Even the South African papers apologize  "a monstrous attack."
Are you sure?
Yes  I can't talk like this.
Oww!
Mr. Khan said they called you brave.
Sora was sent to tell me I  I must rake and cover the latrine.
Everyone takes his turn.
It is the work of untouchables.
In this place there are no untouchables  and no work is beneath any of us!
I am your wife.
All the more reason.
Please! You're being foolish!
There's no room! And the air is lovely.
God gave you ten thumbs.
Eleven.
"Take a fifth step, that we may serve the people."
"I will follow close behind you and help to serve the people."
"Take a sixth step, that we may follow our vows in life."
"I will follow you in all our vows and duties."
You've come to me. I wanted to believe you would one day.
I haven't come to you.
But you're here. So you must have come to me.
In other words I never understood until today how much pain and anxiety you've been causing with your reviews. Steven, it's so unfair.
Of course it's unfair. The truth is always unfair. Why do you think I live this way? Hiding out. Stealing electricity from a lamp post. Because people who write the truth are outcasts of society. I can't live openly, in a nice clean doorman building, with my name on the mailbox. They'd come after me in packs.
Not if you stopped hurting people. Write the truth gently.
The truth is never gentle. Listen to me carefully. Each of us lives in the thinnest possible wrapping of wishes and dreams. Truth is the force that penetrates this wispy skin. It hurts and maims.
Yes. I've seen your victims. One past and one future. I thought I might convince you to reconsider.
And I thought, at last, she's here, she wants me.
I don't want you, Steven.
Stay. Teach me to be compassionate.
I'm going home to my machine.
What's good?
We have a very nice pasta today. Alla Putanesca.
You've worked with Elliot?
I was in the fishmarket play. What happened to him?
There was a review.
I think I remember.
So does Elliot.
Not one of Steven's finer moments.
Oh. You know him.
A little.
And he has finer moments now and then.
He has  something. A funny little quality I find 
Endearing.
Engaging.
Elliot wants to kill him with a railroad spike.
A little drastic maybe?
Say it again.
What?
You know what.
Alla puttanesca.
One more time.
You keep slipping away. How do you do that?
I was one of those silent, listening children. Glued to the shadows.
I was all noise. Played the radio loud. Battled constantly with my brother and sister. Here I am, world.
I hear good things about the new play.
So do I. Over and over.
Peter Redmond is an actor I admire enormously.
Would you like to meet him?
He doesn't want to meet some outof work ingenue.
I'm trying to prolong our afternoon. In case you haven't noticed.
The fact is, I have to get going.
Is it true?
Is what true?
He wears a disguise.
Steven goes to extremes to protect his privacy. No friends. No phone.
But you're his friend.
Sort of. Sometimes. You're not building an obsession about Steven, are you? Look. I understand opening night jitters, but you've got one of the great actors in American theater starring in your play.
Do you think he can do it?
I don't know.
He's a very sweet man.
Where are you going now?
Home.
Someone waiting for you?
No one's waiting.
There's a certain kind of wounded young man who uses his oddness to get laid. Is that our Steven?
If I'm sleeping with him, and I haven't said I am, then so what?
So everything. That's so what. So I begin to hate him. So I want to do him grave harm.
But you don't even know me. How can you care what I do with whom?
I know you both. Enough. How much knowledge does it take before a man does something crazy.
Do you want to talk about doing crazy things.
Yes.
Never mind.
What? Come on, Paisley.
Our Steven not only disguises himself.
Yes.
He goes to the theater armed.
He feels he has to defend himself if necessary.
I'm actually beginning to enjoy this.
Sidney remains optimistic.
Sidney.
Sidney Fabrikant. Our producer.
I was educated by nuns.
Yes.
I have excellent longterm memory.
Yes.
I kissed Shirley Felder on the teeth.
Yes, Peter.
But my parasite is consuming all the new memories. Eating my lines.
You have to see the words. Try to build a mental picture of the script. Imagine your lines high lighted with a felt tip pen.
What color?
What was your favorite color crayon, growing up?
Burnt sienna.
Mine was cobalt blue.
This is your history, isn't it? Nicky? All around us. And my parasite is consuming it.
Yes.
I kissed her while she was laughing.
Yes.
I can see her face so clearly. Dear God. My heart was flying out of my chest with love.
And the Father replies?
That's the line I can't ever, for the life of me remember. I just can't get it.
This could be it.
I know it sounds easy. But something happens between the time I hear the line and the time I'm suppose to Jrepeat it.
What do you mean?
To go to the theater. Wears I don't know what. Makeup, padding.
Why?
Because he is so deeply hated by so many people in the business.
Yessiree, Bob.
Get the hell out of here. I don't want you bringing our food. Send a real waiter.
Finally, I get a waiter who doesn't know "Macbeth".
But I know you, don't I? I seen you on a poster in the theater district. I'll think of your name in just a 
I hate the Mets.
How come?
When the Mets lose, they just lose. It's a flat feeling. But the Red Sox  here we have a rich history of interesting ways to lose a crucial game. Defeats that keep you awake, that pound in your head like the hammer of fate.
Have to hurry back.
Hurry back. Hurry back to what?
Eleventh inning. What else?
Game six is history,pal.
You're not making sense.
aybe we ought to postpone the opening.
Joanna loves this play. She has sunk tons of money. She is completely Ncommitted.
appreciate that, Sidney. But our leading man can't remember his lines. And his understudy can't carry the play.
I had lunch with Joanna. She said she told you about Peter. You weren't concerned, she said.
hat was this morning.
So what happened since? You're worried about this kid who writes these reviews?
'm not worried about this kid.
Well I am. Worried sick. Everybody quotes Steven Schwimmer. He's here to announce the death of civilization. He kills a play every time he farts.
Postpone. We have every right.
Too late. All the elements are in place. Delay the opening and we lose the theater.
I've had three straight washouts, Sidney.
You're dangling from the last letter of your last name.
Then they lost?
Why does it matter?
If they lost tonight, they'll lose tomorrow. It's all over.
Why do you care?
They're my team.
No. They're not your team. They're my team.
They're my team, too. I grew up on Boyleston Street. Right by Fenway Park. I went to fifty or sixty games a year. All by myself. I was one of those kids with scabby elbows. I called out to the players. `Look over here. Hi, I'm Steven. My parents are divorced.'
I went to college in Boston so I could be near the Red Sox. I took summer classes and the cut them to go to the game. My wife is from Boston. Lillian Ziegler?
The Red Sox were my world. I surrendered my existence to a team that couldn't win the big one.
If you're such a devoted fan, why were you at the play tonight instead of the game? Answer carefully. This is important. You could have gone to the theater last night. There was no game last night.
Because I can't bear to watch. When they lose, I die inside. It's like some little person named Steve just crumples up and dies. I wait for the scores. I still die, hearing the scores, but it's over in a second. I can't survive the game pitch by pitch, inning by inning. I've done it too many times. And I can't do it anymore.
I was six years old the day Pesky hesitated throwing home and Slaughter scored all the way from first. That's when I knew the Red Sox were my team. Pity and terror.
When I traveled through Asia this summer, I went to tremendous trouble and expense to rent a car with a phone so I could call up Sports Phone in New York and get the scores. I drove through the war in Afghanistan calling Sports Phone like every hour on the hour, for updates.
What about my play?
And you're not saying that because of the gun in my hand?
You're out of bullets.
I'm looking at you trying to think. Put your face in the mirror. I know I recognize you from somewhere.
Everybody else does. Why not you?
You're Frankie Lazzaro. The gangster from Rhode Island.
Oh yeah?
Matthew, look at him. When I lived in Roxbury, the media followed this man everywhere. He was bigger than ten movie stars. Where's your white Lincoln limo?
Some little kid stole the hubcaps.
The most charming gangster in New England. Where are we going, Mr. Lazzaro?
Call me Frankie. And it looks like we're going nowhere.
Might be an accident on the West Side Highway.
How come you got the kid with you?
Matthew's my grandson.
A grandmother. God bless you.
He does bless me, each and every day. Matthew's mother works a hospital shift, so I pick him up at school. We stop for a meal usually around this time. He does his homework and gets some experience meeting people. But we never had a famous mobster before.
It's the kid's lucky day.
This is one charming crook. If shooting people is charming.
Now that's a complicated subject.
That's a simple subject.
Look, we're stuck here front and back. It's dinnertime for you, game time for me. Let's park the cab and go to Mannion's. What do you say, Matthew? We'll drink beer and talk baseball.
You see what you're doing, don't you?
What am I doing?
You're charming the boy.
Hey, Toyota. He asked me a question.
Frankie Lazzaro. Coming down the courthouse steps every day in the media. Children see this. They think you're the Secretary of the Treasury.
That's my cousin, Angelo.
Go on, tell him. Tell the truth. Tell him how you feel, shooting a piece of hot metal in somebody's flesh who was once a child, who was once the same age as this boy. Somebody's flesh who was innocent once.
It's complicated. It's a whole life. A person doesn't commit an act of violence out of nowhere. There are strong forces at work.
You're a family man, Frankie?
Wife and daughter. My father's still alive. He outlives me, starting tonight. Because the Mets just tied the score. It was only a matter of time, wasn't it?
An how many years does it take a person to make his family safe and secure and happy, and then in one dumb moment, what does he do?
I don't know Toyota. What does he do?
And the people he hurts the most are the people who love him. Despite who he is and what he does for a living. We're always saying we want to take control of our lives. You don't want to take control. You want to lose control. Jesus knows it.
It's a complicated subject.
It's a simple subject.
Your problem is you take the easy way out. Losing is easy.
Winning is easy. Losing is complicated. It's a lifetime's work.
It may be work but it's not honest work. Faith is the real work.
You made him strike out. You wished it on him. You want to lose. It's too hard for you to believe in something. It's hard to have faith. It's hard Nwork to trust somebody.
"It looked extremely rocky for the Boston nine that day."
You're afraid to risk believing. Believe in them. Believe in your self. Take a risk. It will humanize you as a person.
I want to believe.
If you believed, you wouldn't be walking around with a handgun in your belt. What does that tell me? You want to make the night come down.
Say it and you'll believe it. Life is good. Say it.
I want to say it because my whole life may depend on these next few moments.
Then say it.
Life is good.
Speak it like it's real. Matthew.
I don't know.
Matthew.
This is something no one has been privileged to see in almost seventy years. Very few people now alive can say that they have seen what you are about to see, Matthew. The Red Sox win a World Series. This is deeply, intensely personal. All the mistakes I've made, all the envy, fear and violence that's encased in this little envelope we call a person  all washed away in the next few minutes. And your grandmother knows why.
Because God loves a winner.
He used to love losers. But the laws of physics changed.
All the times I died when the Red Sox lost an important game they should have won. All the awful things I said to my mother and father. To Tmy wife and daughter.
Washed away.
Because life is good.
Because faith is rewarded.
Don't worry. It's a test.
It's a test all right. They're bringing in Stanley.
This could be it!
This could be it!
Who is it?
I'm at the door.
Go way. I'll call a cop.
Pop, will you let me in?
Where the hell are you?
Right here. At the door.
What do you want?
It's me. Nicky.
Nicky comes on Sunday's.
Where are your glasses? Go get them.
If it's you, what are you doing here?
I'm on my way to get a haircut.
Where does Nicky get his hair cut?
Across Ninth Avenue. Dodgie's. Where you've been getting your hair cut for fifty years. Where Uncle Billy and Uncle Marty got their hair cut. Where Jim Rorty shot a man for cheating at poker.
It was rummy, not poker. But I'll take a chance and let you in.
It's a constant shock to me, how small this place is. How did we do it? Five people in these little rooms.
Get yourself something to eat.
We must have been heroic.
Five's not so many. There were families with seven kids. A grandmother. A dimwit uncle.
Lillian says it once a week. `Why doesn't he come live with us?'
You know the answer to that.
I do know the answer to that. Why don't we watch the ball game later? We'll go to Mannion's.
They're only gonna lose.
Of course they're gonna lose. We'll watch them lose. What good is heartbreak if we don't experience it firsthand?
The Red Sox are your problem. I never understood about you and the Red Sox. Everybody rooted for the Yankees.
Remember 1949? Last two games of the season. Against the Yankees. The Sox lost on Saturday. Then they lost on Sunday. First I cried for twentyfour hours. Then I had fist fights the rest of the week.
It's one thing for kids. You get older, you Nhave other things.
It's all connected, Pop. It's one life. Baseball is memory. How do fathers and sons show their love? They go to a ball game together. Thirtyfive years later, they sit in the kitchen and remember.
But the son is suppose to stop crying.
I could have grown up happy. A Yankee fan. A divorce lawyer.
You'll need these. Tonight. For the play.
Don't make me sit through one of your plays.
Hey, Pop. I know you don't like the commotion of opening night. But I especially want you to see this play. It's new territory for me. And for you too. I have to know what you think.
Since when did that matter?
Let's not start that again.
My back is killing me.
Where's your elastic brace?
I can't find it.
You're suppose to wear it when your back gives you trouble.
I lost it. I lose everything.
I'll go get you another one. You have to wear it.
`Why doesn't he come live with us?' Because everything is here.
I know, Pop.
I'm lucky they don't knock down the building. It could happen anytime. And everything worth remembering is right here.
I think the building's okay. At least for the time being.
You didn't think it was okay when you lived here. You wanted to get out so fast I thought you were running a marathon.
Normal boy's ambition. I like coming back. You know that.
You tell your friends your father used to work the docks. Callused hands. But you had an attitude when you were growing up that wasn't easy for your mother and me to understand.
I was in a hurry to do big things, make big mistakes. Any mistakes were okay as long as it was big. But I'm trying to see these things clearly and honestly. That's the play they're going to kill starting tonight. There's a guy out there getting ready to rip it apart. And that's us. Who we were and where we come from.
So what are you going to do about it?
What do you want me to do?
Show him who we are.
What happens if somebody comes in here right now and shoots you?
This place becomes famous. Tour buses. Blind people feeling around for bullet holes in the wall.
What's it like to shoot somebody?
I respect a kid who does his homework in a taxi. But let's put a lid on the questions.
Great game. Red Sox are winning.
They're always winning. Until they lose.
Life is good.
Life is good.
People are dependable.
I don't know if I can say that.
All the failures, all the fatalism.
Washed away.
One more out.
It's Stanley. It's the Steamer. Fate has spoken to this man in the depths of the night.
What did it say?
A thousand things.
You're hurting my head.
This could be it!
This could be it!
Life is true.
Life is real.
Your father said you might be here.
Twoall after six.
I've been looking for you because I want to let you know what's been going on before you read about it in a gossip column.
We stranded five runners in the first two innings. This will come back to haunt us.
I want to be fairminded, Nicky.
All right. What's been going on?
I've been talking to a prominent divorce lawyer.
How prominent?
He has his own submarine. I'll be getting everything that matters. I'll get New York and I'll get Connecticut.
I'll have whatever she's having.
I don't want to be responsible for his food. Just a small green salad. And a Perrier.
Bring me the bay scallops with mercury poisoning.
Opening night, Lillian.
Who the hell cares?
The whole thing is my fault. I took unfair advantage of your patience and understanding. You understand me.
That's always been my problem.
And you've been extremely patient.
You know why, don't you? Because I am patient, chainsmoking Lillian.
You smoked because I smoked. We were falling in love, remember? I used to see certain movies only because you had seen them. I wanted to see what you saw.
I'd forgotten that.
I went because you went. You smoked because I smoked.
That's very lovely actually.
Laurel wants us to be honest and open. Let's be open with each other.
Be open with me. I'd like that.
There may be things you'd rather not know about.
I want to know. We haven't talked this way in years.
I had an affair  are you sure you want to hear this?
Joanne Bourne.
Alma Wetzel.
Nicky, no. This is insupportable. How could you?
I'm a man. She's, you know, a woman.
She's my gynecologist.
I am really, deeply sorry.
It violates so many trusts.
It was an animal thing. No real intimacy.
I never thought of Dr. Wetzel as having a sex life outside the office.
We did it in the office. She thought her apartment was too impersonal.
I'm glad we're having this talk.
I feel great. I feel impeccably alive. I'm elated. Eat something. Please. I love you.
Why won't you tell me your name?
It's only our first date.
I'm willing to tell you my name.
Names are incredibly intimate. We barely know each other. Trust me on this.
You have to tell me what you thought of the play.
First you tell me.
Brilliantly moving.
What else?
Packs an emotional wallop.
What else?
A flatout hit.
If you're wondering about the firearm.
Yes.
This building is not secure.
I have this thing where I have to know a person is being honest with me before, you know, I can feel completely free to be myself.
We're strangers in the night. The last thing we want is honesty.
What do we want?
Mystery. Deception.
Deception isn't something I personally consider sexy.
What's sexy?
Knowing who a person is. Down deep.
Even if the truth about a person is sad or depressing or shocking?
You won't even tell me your name. What's shocking about a name?
Am I really so deeply repugnant?
Yes.
Yes. And no more evasive tactics.
It's your best play, Nicky.
See, Daddy.
I've seen it twice. I went back tonight to be sure. It's a brave and honest piece of work.
What else?
An artistry and sensitivity you've never shown before.
See, Daddy.
And Peter Redmond helped immensely. These pauses were exquisitely timed. He made us wait and wait. He built a gorgeous tension and suspense.
I never see you anymore. Where are you all day?
I go to college. I thought you knew.
Do you want to get some coffee?
I don't drink coffee, Daddy. And this is not what we should be talking about.
What do you want to talk about? I'll talk about anything. What's this?
I'm seeing your play tonight, remember?
Why do you need a radio?
So at the intermission I can listen to the ball game. Do you know that mother is seeing a prominent divorce lawyer?
That's completely crazy.
Is it?
Don't talk like that. How prominent? What are you implying?
She's doing like those Iranians. `I divorce thee. I divorce thee. I divorce thee'
And he hears it the same time I hear it? What happened to family secrets?
If lawyers for the mob are called controversial, why are divorce lawyers called prominent?
Because they get outstanding settlements. And Mother is determined that this time there's no turning back.
I just had breakfast with her. She didn't say a word about this.
Because you refuse to believe she's serious. You've always refused.
Don't be so steelyeyed. It's that course you're taking in criminology.
Oh please. Not now. She wants you to stop seeing What's HerName. Finally. Now and forever. Do you think that's too much to ask? For a wife of nineteen years.
You're too young to be studying criminal behavior. It's making you obsessive.
She is kicking you out.
Your mother and I have something between us that's too strong to damage permanently. Believe me, I know this. That's right, nineteen years. And what about the days and minutes? Sharing small moments, sharing memories, raising a beautiful child. We're wedded in the deepest and strongest ways. Lillian isn't only my wife. She's my best friend.
Mother won't tell me how long you've been seeing this person. She's embarrassed to tell me. So why don't you tell me?
Don't call her Mother all the time. It makes her sound tragic and unforgiving. What happened to Mom?
I didn't turn her into Mother. You did.
This person and I are a thing of the total past. I promise you.
Laurel. Tickets are all set. I doublechecked.
Thanks, Daddy. But I just need one. Mother's not going.
Opening night?
I know  why should a bitter divorce interfere with tradition?
Rogan, Laurel. You also have a Rogan, Lillian. She won't need it. Sell it.
Take it yourself. Take a date.
I don't have a date. I don't want a date.
And you blame me. It's because we never talk. Let's talk.
I have a class. I'm late.
Can we talk later? Will you be at the party?
I'm not sure.
Look. I'm sorry you keep running into dishonest men. But you're only eighteen. We can still turn it around.
Except I won't have a father anymore.
I'll see you all the time. I'll get a place right nearby. One room. No distractions. We'll talk.
What will we talk about?
Everything.
Will I believe you when you tell me something?
There's nothing left for me to lie about.
I see the outline of your body in chalk on this very floor.
Daddy, wait.
Last night. Alan Albright called me a handsome woman. Second time he's done that. Son of a bitch.
I hear Alan's sick.
Alan's very sick. He has to go to New Mexico and sit in a lukewarm solution.
You know about Adele.
What about her?
She's dying.
She died.
I talked to her two days ago.
Apparently it didn't help. You know about Peter, of course.
Our Peter?
Peter Redmond. They found out why he can't remember his lines. There's something living in his brain. A parasite he picked up in Borneo, doing the movie.
Can he get through it?
They're watching him closely. There's a special rehearsal set for this afternoon. To bolster his confidence. And that's not all.
I've got bigger problems, Joanna. Personal problems.
That's not all, Nicky. I've been backing your plays for fifteen years. And I've never been more depressed.
About what?
Steven Schwimmer. The most powerful critic in America gets his first crack at Nicky Rogan.
Look. All I want is a haircut. I'm not worried about this guy.
Ever since he started reviewing the Broadway theater, nobody in this business has been worried about anything else.
They can send their heartless brilliant boycritic. There's a much bigger thing going on than tonight's opening.
What?
The Red Sox
You mean the World Series? I thought the Red Sox were winning.
Three games to two. But if you know their history, you realize there's a tragedy in the making. I've been carrying this franchise on my back since I was six years old.
It can't be all that personal.
I'm proud of this play. It's so different from anything you've done.
This is how we've managed to last.
We're able to surprise each other.
In and out of bed.
Because we're completely mismatched.
We don't even like each other, do we?
I used to tell myself. Talent is more erotic when it's wasted. Will I see you tonight?
The Red Sox blow a chance to win their first World Series since 1918. You expect me to miss that for an opening night?
It makes me so mad. Steven Schwimmer ready to strike. The exterminating angel.
It's all worked out. They'll lose tonight. Then they'll lose tomorrow. I see it with stunning clarity.
It's your best play, Nicky.
They'll lose because they're my team.
He will absolutely hate it.
This could be it.
This could be it.
Let's work on it.
Let's work on it.
This could Pbe it.
This could be it.
This could be it.
This could be it.
This could be it.
This could be it.
Does it feel comfortable?
Does what feel comfortable?
This could be it.
This could be it.
Great game.
Unbelievable.
Classic.
I think you're a little confused. Nothing personal friend.
What are you talking about?
What are we talking about?
Yes. What are you implying?
Of course I saw it.
Did you see the winning run score?
You're not making sense. Make sense.
Nicky. I was thinking about you. I went to the preview last night.
I don't want to hear about it.
A lovely piece of theater. Small but important.
Shut up, Elliot.
Quietly effective.
You're an artist. I'm a craftsman.
Press a button and they give us money.
Ride with me. We need a haircut.
How is Lillian? I haven't seen her.
She wants a divorce.
Don't talk like that.
It's over, finished and done with.
That sounds so final. But are we really surprised?
I'm completely stunned. I don't want this to happen.
But didn't we know it would happen?
Don't needle me, Elliot. Tell me how bad you feel. We're suppose to feel bad together. This is what friends do.
Joanna Bourne. So rich and crisp. This woman lets you touch her body? You put your hands on her personal parts?
Very dangerous.
Asbestos lining.
We must abandon.
Do not inhale.
I'm trying to think. When did you start looking so terrible? You look awful.
I can tell you the year, the day, the night, the minute.
You used to love life. You don't exude this any more.
What do I exude?
Suffering. You exude a person who sits in a small dark apartment eating soft white bread.
Tonight you find out what it means to suffer.
Tonight. What's tonight?
Shit. They don't have any carrot soup.
You mean because What'sHisName.
You will suffer because he is in the theater. And you will suffer a thousandfold when his review appears.
It's just a review.
It is just a review. Do not inhale. Very dangerous.
What's the fuss? I don't get it.
That's what I said eighteen months ago.
What happened eighteen months ago?
Before his Broadway days. He reviewed the oneact I did at the Fulton Fish Market. We did this play at four AM, outdoors in the rain. One performance. For the fish handlers.
And he was there?
Steven Schwimmer. I memorized every word of this review.
That's awful.
I recite it to myself with masochistic relish.
A year and a half later? You're still brooding?
Do you want me to tell you what it was like, reading that review at the newstand with trucks rumbling past and street vendors facing Mecca?
What was it like?
I said, `I'm dead'. He killed me.
Is it safe?
Do we care?
I think we Nought to wait.
I say we go.
You say we go?
Do not inhale.
I'm not ready.
Here we go.
The man has taken over my mind. He's not only out there. He's in my head and I can't get rid of him. I can't write a word without imagining his response. I'm paralyzed as an artist.
I don't have the problems that artists have.
Where are you going?
Don't wait Efor me.
What about the haircut?
He carries a gun.
Then you should carry a gun.
I used to carry a gun when I drove a cab.
Where is it?
I gave it away. I thought, I'm a writer now.
That was a big mistake.
We're making too much of this.
No, we're not.
I'm not a lonely spooky writer like you. Nursing a hundred grudges. I'm a man who loves life.
We're talking about something deeper than grudges. How do we respond to personal attack?
In other words why should we suffer silently at this kind of abuse? The man is out there ruining lives.
It's your best play, Nicky.
He'll hate it.
He'll kill it. He'll write a review so devastating it will shatter your career and cause the most unmanageable psychic grief. What happens to your apartment on the East River? Your house in Connecticut, where you watch things grow.
We were thinking of putting in a pool.
`The most interesting thing about Elliot Litvak is that he writes the way he looks  fuzzy, grubby and shiftyeyed.' I'm telling you as a friend.
What?
There are things that speak to us from the past.
Shoot him.
The American theater doesn't need people like that.
Shoot him, Nicky. Not that we really mean it. But where does he live?
Keep going west. Last building before the river.
How do you Eknow.
Paisley Porter.
What do you mean?
About an hour and a half ago. I saw her come out of a place. She said she was visiting a friend. But she wouldn't tell me who.
Had to be him.
She was very evasive.
Guys ready to order?
Paisley Porter. I didn't know you were waiting tables.
Elliot?
This is a great young outofwork actress.
Elliot Litvak. Have you been ill? And Mr. Rogan. How nice.
Say it again.
Alla puttanesca.
Isn't she great? What did I tell you? A talent.
I used to drive a taxi.
Where you're going, mister?
I used to be head of neurosurgery. Big hospital in USSR. This hospital, I'm not kidding.
Very big.
I opened thousands of brains.
What did you find?
Big mess every time.
I loved my taxi. Went twelve hours nonstop. Stopped only to pee. I peed under the Manhattan bridge. Peed many times in parks and playgrounds.
I wrapped my sandwiches in tinfoil. I ate and drove. I had one of those big checkered cabs.
You are going where?
Crosstown.
Very bad today.
We must abandon.
What do you mean, we must abandon?
Ruptured steam pipe.
We must abandon.
Contaminated substance. Very dangerous. Shooting mud.
Do not inhale.
I never left the garage without my Windex.
I was barrister in Kenya. I said to him, get off from here. I cannot drive with your body on my windscreen.
I drove twelve hours straight through. Ate at the wheel.
Under the Manhattan Bridge.
That's where I peed.
Rennie...
Hi, Sean.
I heard you weren't coming.
We changed our minds.
I got you a present.
But I didn't get you one...
Forget it. It's a dumb little thing anyway.
I thought maybe we could hike to the top of the Statue when we got there, if you felt like it. It's supposed to be 22 stories tall.
I'd love to.
It's okay...you're going to be okay.
I want to go home. I want off this ship.
Can he really take us home?
Not completing a voyage is against everything he stands for. But I think I can convince him to call a Coast Guard cutter for you.
What about you?
If I go with you, he'll never speak to me again. But I'm never going to live up to his expectations anyway...so maybe it's the right thing to do.
I don't know...we've gone off course or something...
What do you mean???
I think so. But we have to lower the anchors so we don't drift any further...
Where are they?
The bow...front of the ship. There's a hoist on each side that lowers them
I didn't mean for you to go!
Just radio for help, okay???
Rennie...??
The window...
Rule one, don't panic. Rule two, assess the damage and act accordingly...
Is the ship going to sink??
We'll be okay. I want you to wait by the lifeboats, just in case.
I'm not going near any lifeboat!
But Rennie...
I'm not!!
Rennie...what'd they do to you??
Drugs... Then Jason came. He's here, Sean.
You have to call the police...
Please, hurry...
The Captain and Chief Engineer... they've been...they're dead.
What is your location?
I...I don't know...
Is your ship equipped with Omega satellite navigation or LORAN?
Yes...
The LORAN has a digital printout of your latitude and longitude. Give me the coordinates and we'll be there as quick as we can.
I've got the numbers.
Give me the degrees first, followed by minutes and sec...
I'm glad you decided to come after all.
Me too. But I'm not sure Uncle Charles will be.
You let me worry about him, okay? Personal experiences are what fuel the minds of great writers, Rennie. You made the right decision.
What about notsogreat writers?
Everything okay?
Just felt a little chill.
Did you know that I'm giving up teaching?
Really?
Since the school is closing anyway, I'm going to write that novel I've been threatening on everybody.
That's wonderful, Miss Van Deusen...what's it about?
Stephen King supposedly used it when he was in high school.
I don't know what to say...
Rennie, you're the best student I ever had...you have a real gift. If anybody can make use of that pen, it's you.
Rennie  I was just on my way over to your room
Have you seen my dog anywhere?
No, but I'm sure Toby's fine. The ship's only so big and there's certainly no way off it, is there?
So, are you having fun yet?
Yeah...a lot.
I seem to detect a hint of ingenuousness in your tone. In other words, level with me.
There's something I haven't told you...
I can't swim.
I gathered that.
I had a skiing accident in high school, broke my left leg. It took three winters before I would even look at the snow again...but the solution kept eluding me. I finally took lessons. I've never broken a bone since.
It's not that simple.
Maybe not. But you're not telling me everything, are you?
Whenever I get near the water, I see this young boy drowning. He tries to pull me down with him.
When did this start?
About four years ago...at Crystal Lake. I spent a few summers there with Uncle Charles inbetween boarding school.
After your parents passed away?
Did you have an accident in the lake?
No. It was just a normal summer. I've never been able to figure it out.
Only one young boy ever drowned in that lake, and that was before you were even born. His name was Jason Voorhees.
You're making a big mistake, Rennie. It's not too late to put you back on land.
I'm staying.
If Miss Van Deusen knew how afraid you were of...
She didn't push me into coming.
Why are you doing this to yourself?
I don't even know why I'm afraid, Uncle Charles. I can't even remember when it started. Don't you think it's time I found out and got over it?
Facing your fear doesn't always conquer it.
I'm staying.
You had me worried to death!
But Sean said...
I'm the one you should be listening to! Do you think dropping an anchor in the middle of a storm makes any sense whatsoever?
Can't we at least talk about it?
I refuse to discuss this ridiculous notion that a ghoul is terrorizing this ship.
But what about the drowning boy I've been seeing?
Whatever you've been...imagining... has nothing to do with Jason Voorhees. I want you to be safe, Rennie. That's all I care about.
I'm not staying in my room, Uncle Charles.
This isn't a request.
Get in the boat, Rennie!
I...I can't...
You can and you will!!
You pushed me...
I was only trying to teach you. But I pulled you out, Rennie. I saved your life.
What a beautiful day.
Perfect for a swim, isn't it?
You've been coming out here every summer for the last three years, young lady, and you still haven't learned how.
I'll take some lessons this time. I promise.
He never learned how either and he's still at the bottom of this lake.
He is not.
Oh, he is indeed. And ready to pull down anybody who falls in and can't swim.
You're telling a lie.
Am I? Let's find out.
I...I can't...
You can and you will! Swim, Rennie!
Hello, Charles. Has everyone checked in?
Jim Miller and Suzy Donaldson never showed up. I'm a little concerned.
Don't be. They probably decided to explore each other rather than New York.
Let's go  we're running two minutes late.
Charles, there's someone else coming along too.
You have no right...
And neither do you. It's up to Rennie to decide what she wants to do.
She doesn't know what she wants. She's never had a stable life.
And she sure doesn't have one now, either. She needs to live.
I'm her legal guardian, not you or anybody else, and I alone know what's best for her. End of discussion.
No, I think it's just the beginning.
She's fine, Charles. Take it easy...
Oh, I can see that. You've done a wonderful job of supervising the kids, Miss Van Deusen.
I thought I told you to stay away from her.
Where is she?
I demand to know what is going on...
Oh dear God...
What are you doing??
That lunatic has been spouting off about Jason since we boarded... It's no coincidence.
But that doesn't prove that he's the one!
Walking corpses are not real!
Did you find Rennie?
She's locked safe in her room, no thanks to either of you. Has he brought it back on course yet?
He's doing the best he can, Charles.
He's the son of the Captain, for Chrissakes. You'd think he'd be able to operate this thing!
I doubt very much that one even exists.
What are you talking about?
Use some common sense! Setting off a fire alarm causes panic...the same kind of panic caused by suggesting Jason Voorhees is on board. Enough is enough.
What did you do with Rennie??
Nothing! I went to her cabin and...
There must be a phone around here somewhere.
A wonderful choice of places to dock a boat, Mr. Robertson.
Everyone split up  we'll cover more ground that way.
I don't think that's such a safe idea
My niece's life hangs in the balance right now!! Every second counts.
All right. But if it mysteriously disappears en route, I'll have you sent back home the minute we dock. Understood?
Perfectly.
What are you doing in here?
Nothing.
I'11 be coming around your stateroom in exactly fifteen minutes, Miss Mason. You'd better have your biology project ready or I'm phoning your parents.
They're out of town.
Then I'll make sure you remain on board while your classmates see the sights.
Where did you get that alcohol?
I packed it. Just for us.
That's it. You're not setting foot off this ship until we return home.
But I haven't even shown you my biology project...
Which cabin is Rennie in, Mr. McCulloch?
Rennie's not coming.
But I thought...
She changed her mind. Let's see...Mr. Wolfe is in stateroom oneeleven and you, Mr. Robertson, are in twotwentyfive.
Where's the radio?
It's...dead.
Christ...where's Rennie??
She's...she's dropping the anchors. I thought the Coast Guard could find us easier if...
What?? You sent her out there with a murderer running around loose??
What's that?
The fire alarm...
She never should've set foot on this ship. This is your fault!
This is Jason's fault!
Not another word, do you hear me??
Dear Christ...
We have to get off this ship!!
Jason's here in New York.
Don't be ridiculous!
Well...how do you feel?
Ask me in about five minutes.
What's wrong?
Nothing.
What murders?
Never mind, you don't want to know about it.
Tell me.
There's nothing to worry about, Suzy. The guy's dead now, somewhere at the bottom of this lake...if you believe the stories. Let's drop it, okay?
Right.
I mean, Lakeview High just closed its doors for good, right?
Right.
So there's no reason for him to come back because there won't be any of us around...right?
Did you hear that?
Hear what?
All right, all right  I'm a major ass.
And you'll never do it again.
And I'll never do it again. Forgive me?
No.
I hear the crew members are cute guys in their twenties.
Really?
I'm sure we'll have no problem getting them to party with us...especially with this.
It's my graduation gift from Daddy. It cost over a thousand bucks but it's the best.
He bought you that?
More or less. It's part of my college fund.
A major prick.
What are you going to do?
Improvise, of course.
He's undefeated, you know that? Julius is the only senior I'd even consider doing it with. If he wasn't black, that is.
My parents are open minded about that sort of thing.
My stepmom couldn't care less, but Daddy would have a shit fit. He might even pay some attention to me.
I think it's time for some recreational activity, girl.
Sounds good. I hear there's a shuffleboard court on deck  it might be kinds cool...
You're joking, right?
No thanks.
What? Don't be a lightweight...this is top dollar toot.
It's not that, it's just that... It I get caught, I'll lose my science scholarship and everything.
You're talking to the prom queen, Eva. Do you really think I'm going to risk getting caught?
I guess not.
Do you realize how many people would kill to be sitting here right now? Come on, it's grad night. You've got your whole life to be uptight.
A real space cadet. I wonder if she'll narc on us...
I have her in Creative Writing and she's fairly nice.
Nobody related to McCulloch can be nice.
What are you going to do?
Relax, I've got McCulloch covered... but that little narcing bitch niece of his is a different matter. Rumor has it she's a teensy bit afraid of the water...
That was truly excellent.
Yeah.
Time to check out the waiters.
I think I'll pass. See you later, okay?
But...wait a minute!
What's going on? I heard on the P.A. system that...
The Captain's been murdered. The buzz is that Jason might be on board.
Jason...Voorhees?
Have you seen Tamara?
No. And I'm not losing any sleep over it.
But she might be in trouble...
So what else is new? Look Eva, you're asking the wrong dude to feel sorry for Tamara Mason. Wise up  it's not hip to be her friend.
I don't care about being hip anymore.
What do you mean you've never made a prank call?
Never.
You mean never as in really never, or never as in it was just so stupid you don't want to tell us about it?
I mean really never.
I'm sorry to hear that. A famous man once said  there is no worse regret then a temptation resisted.
That's disgusting.
Disgusting? Bingo night was sold out for six months after that! They raised enough money to build a day care center.
Steven!
She's a waitress at Joey B's but she needs some extra cash. Ward's the pimp.
I'm literally going to kill you!
Ten dollars! Hell, I can't do that to you  you can have her for a pizza.
A pizza?!
Oh, my dear God...
He was dead. He had to be dead...
How many times do you want to hear this?
Until I hear the truth.
I've told you the truth.
The truth? That Josh, a man I've trusted with my own life on more than one occasion  let me see if I've got the order right here  tried to rape Diana...got the back of his head blown off...took a poker through the gut...fell through a plate glass window and then magically disappeared into the night.
I know what it sounds like.
You don't know shit!
I didn't kill her!
Then why were you at her house?! She didn't want anything to do with you.
She asked me to come over. She said she had something to tell me.
About what?
About Jessica.
That's a lie. Diana would never talk to you about Jessica. Not after what you did to her.
Look, I know I treated her bad 
 Bad?!
You call what you did bad?! You knocked her up and then left her!
No  she left me! After her miscarriage, I 
 Miscarriage?! Who the fuck told you Jessica had a miscarriage?!
She did!
My God...you are one sorry sonofa bitch.
She did have a miscarriage, didn't she? Didn't she?!
Oh, you stupid, sorry sonofa bitch...
Jesus, Steven, that's...that's really lovely.
I mean, how can you go through life without never having made a prank call?
Hell, when Steven was a kid, he was like, having strippers delivered to church Bingos and shit.
It was a community service.
Absolutely. The church even sent me an autographed picture of God. Ward!
What are you doing?
Showing Vicki what she missed out on by being such a dull kid. Now, the first thing you need in making a prank call is, of course, a phone. This one, for instance.
Steven, c'mon, we're not thirteen...
Next, you dial a number.
...and it's now ringing...ringing... and  Hello? Anthony's Pizzeria? Yeah, this is officer Randy Parker over at the station.
Oh, c'mon, would you stop, please?
Is this Anthony?...Yeah, well, I just have one question for you, Anthony  did you fuck my dog?
Oh my God, Steven.
Yeah, well somebody fucked her and if I find out it was you, I'm gonna come over there and shoot you in the head.
I'm now begging you.
Listen, since I got you on the phone  ask the guys there if they wanna chip in for a hooker. I'll send her right over. Her name is Vicki.
Randy, you dipshit! Take these off!
Sorry, I'm working now. You see, I have a job...
Randy, c'mon!
Have a good night.
Wanna know how I did that?
Yeah...
Gotta go. See you guys later.
Well?
I'm sorry. I have to bring you to a cell.
Are you crazy?!
I know, I know, I'm sorry but the Sheriff is just berserk right now. C'mon.
I'll be back later. You just be cool, okay.
Okay.
Don't do anything stupid.
What am I gonna do  I'm locked up in a friggin' cell?!
I'm gonna get your outta this. Just hang tight. Okay?
Okay.
Jessica, I'm so sorry. I...I wanted to have this cleaned up before you got here.
That's all right. I was just...
She's beautiful.
Her name's Stephanie.
She's yours?
Why didn't you tell me?
I was going to, I was going to tell everyone. I just...didn't expect to be back here so soon. Is Steven around?
Does he know about what happened?
Yeah. Sit down a second. There's something I need to tell you about Steven...
Maybe you should be moving on.
Maybe you should mind your own business.
Get up!
Why don't you blow me, Chief. After your girlfriend gets through.
You're talking about my lady.
She's your lady only cause she ain't had a taste of the Duke yet.
Goddamnit!
Careful, Chief. I don't think you know who I am.
I know who you are and the last thing we need around here is some freak show "bounty hunter" making trouble. I want you outta town and I want you outta town now!
That's very colorful, chief.
Take him to my car. I'll be out in a minute.
Where the fuck is she, Duke?!
That's what I'd like to know.
Why did you want her body?
For a good reason.
Tell me.
Sorry.
Tell me!
Information like that is very expensive and you don't have the balls to pay the price.
Lock this asshole up.
You think you can lock me up in this pissass prison? Hell, this place is motel fuckin' six to me.
Jesus!
Sorry, Di. I was just going to my car. I didn't mean to frighten you...
It's...It's all right.
Listen...don't you worry about Ed. He'll come around. He's too good a Sheriff to let you give him the slip.
I'm just too old for going steady, Josh.
So's he and he knows it.
Everything'll work out. Trust me on that.
Okay.
Good night, beautiful.
'Night, Josh.
Everything going okay?
It's going.
Legs giving you trouble?
Not so bad, today.
Steven buggin' you?
Do you have to ask?
Ed...
Okay. So how is Jessica? You talked to her lately?
Yeah, she's good, considering. That kid just takes everything in stride.
I gotta get back to work.
Okay, I'll call you later.
What's the problem here?
N...nothing.
Hello...
June the 19th.
Anything else?
Yes.
I know who you are.
I need to talk to you.
I'm kind of busy right now...
I'm going to kill Jason Voorhees  and I need you to help me.
Jason Voorhees is dead.
You know he's not...and he's coming for you.
You food'll be right out.
No, I 
Twenty.
Look 
Thirty. Name your price. Everyone has a price, what's yours?
Look, I don't want your money!
Then maybe I should offer it to your daughter...
What do you want?
You know what I want. You know why I need you.
You need to leave.
I know everything about you, Diana.
That's it, we're done.
Diana  you heard from Jessica lately?
Yes.
...but there just may not be enough time. If you still care about her, if you still want to try to make things better between you two...we should talk.
So let's talk.
No. Not here. Come by my house tonight at eleven. Don't be late.
You have to...save...Jessica... Save Jessica and save the...
The what?
Save your...
Steven...
I'm here.
I'm scared. I'm very scared.
Mr. Duke, how can you claim that Jason Voorhees is not truly dead?
How many times has Jason been reported killed before, Mr. Campbell?
Eight times.
Eight times. They've burned him, dipped him in nuclear waste 
 But this time they bombed him and then cremated the body.
They coulda danced a jig on it an' fed it to goats  don't matter. Ya' can't kill Jason by gettin' rid of his body. He'll come back the way he always do, to drag the kiddies into the darkness and crush their little skulls  maybe even your skull, Mr. Campbell.
Well, let's hope not!
Yeah, that'd be a big shame...
In the media, you've frequently been described as "salty" 
 look, just shut up. Let's cut through the shit. You asked me here because you want me to catch and kill Jason Voorhees for ya'. I'll do it, but it won't be easy...and it won't be cheap. One hundred grand, non negotiable.
I understand. However, our audience should be aware that you only charged forty thousand dollars to catch the Idaho skin stretcher.
Skin stretcher was human.
Mr. Duke tonight I'm prepared to offer you your sum of one hundred thousand dollars, payable only after you provide American Casefile with incontrovertible proof of 
 yeah, yeah, yeah. You just have your hundred grand ready. For that you get the machete...the mask...the whole damn thing.
Now you better cool out a minute, boy. You already almost got your head blown to pieces.
Will you listen, dammit!
Don't piss me off, junior. Or I will repaint this office with your brains.
Jason is alive. We dug up his body. I was gonna cremate it and...
Hold it. Whoa... What's your name, son?
Tommy Jarvis. We gotta do something. He's even more powerful now that...
Aren't you the kid whose mother and friends were....
Yeah. Jason murdered them and...
And you've been at some psychiatric clinic ever since, haven't you?
Yes, but they released me because...
No problem, Rick. Come over and meet a former resident here, Tommy Jarvis. He's got some kinda prank going about...
There's no time for this bullshit...
Why didn't you cremate him?!
They were gonna! But some asshole sent a lot of money to give Jason and his mother a decent burial. Now look, you just lie down and get some rest. In the morning I'll call that clinic and see if they...
If you'd just go to the cemetery, you'll see I'm not lying.
Either you go to sleep or I'll come in there and put you out.
You're gonna be sorry you didn't listen to me.
You're gonna be sorry if you don't shut the fuck up.
I sympathize with you kids. The best I can do is call the station in Carpenter and have them keep a lookout for them.
I got a bad feeling of what might've happened to them.
Yes!
No!... ... You kids better leave. This boy here is not well and I need to talk to him in private.
I was going to call the clinic and have them collect your ass. But I don't want you around here any longer poisoning my daughter, or anyone else, with your warped mind.
But they have to be warned, Sheriff. Jason will return to the area that's familiar. No matter what you call it, it's still Camp Crystal Lake to him.
I gotta show you Jason's grave.
I've seen it.
Please, Sheriff. You'll see we dug it up.
Don't concern yourself, Martin. This boy needs treatment. We're taking care of it. Sorry for the disturbance.
Jason's not in his coffin! Hawes is! Dig it up! You gotta dig it up!!
With extreme car, for God's sake. If that kid is with her, there's every good chance he'll do something crazy.
Please don't do anything crazy.
You got me where you want me. There's no reason not...
If I had you where I really wanted you, they'd be pumping your ass full of formaldehyde.
Doesn't that tell you something?!
Yeah...They should've paid their bill.
It's just that Darren and Lizbeth are in charge of organizing and setting up the new campgrounds.
All the little kids arrive today. We're not ready to deal with that alone.
So where's Cort gone off to?
Are you ready? He's taken our young men off to teach them my favorites sport.
Which is?
Boy scouting.
You gotta be kidding!
Okay, okay. I suggest that the crime was committed in the bedroom, by Colonel Mustard, with the knife.
Huh? Oh, come on, Sis. I'm tellin' ya, we can't play Clue with just two people.
Why not? I used to play it alone. I love murder games. Have you ever played The Consulting Detective?
No...Did Megan say when she's coming back from her...visit?
Of course not. She probably took him a loaf of bread with a saw hidden in it. I still don't get it. Why him? I mean, he's cute alright, but...
Hi. Everything's all right now. We're here.
Yeah, we're here.
I just realized something. Where's Cort? I haven't seen him for hours.
I don't know. He called somebody, then took off.
He didn't say anything?
Yeah, he was gonna check out "things that go bump in the night."
What's goin' on?
I think somebody's messin' around out there.
So what happened?
There was this monster. He was after me. He wanted to kill me.
You mean you had a bad dream.
No, he was real. Like on TV.
Okay, listen...what's your name, sweetie?
Nancy.
Well, Nancy, I'm Paula... remember? This is Sissy, and we're gonna be right out there all night so nothing can hurt you. Okay?...
...Good. So no more bad dreams can come around here, huh?
No more.
Where'd you get this?
I found it outside.
You know what? Sissy and Cort are playing jokes. You know, trying to scare each other.
Why?
Well, grownups think it's funny to be scared.
Are they grownups?
That's debatable.
Huh?
I can't believe no one called back. I better...
Who ya calling?
But what if they try and scare us?
We'll scare 'em right back.
I'm sure Cort and Sissy are back in their cabins. So you just go back to sleep and don't worry.
But what I get scared again?
Shhh...You know what I used to do when I was a little girl when I got scared?
Yeah, hi. Listen, I've got to talk to your dad. About Jason. I've got a plan. I need to buy some things first but mainly need help to...
Tommy, my father is out looking for you right now. Something happened tonight and he's sure you're responsible. If he finds you, he'll...
I already have a very good idea what could've happened... ...Megan, Jason is out there. He has to be stopped. I'm positive he's heading back to the lake area. He'll keep killing until...
What?
Hide it behind the gas station. Then we can get the hell out of here.
Didn't you say you needed some supplies to do this?
Uh...yes. But...
Then let's get goin'. We can argue on the way. You tell me what you need... ...I'll make sure you get in.
You got it. Just keep an eye out for roadblocks.
Okay. There's one.
It's all over.
It's just beginning.
So what are ya drawin'?
What's it to ya?
There...Ya happy?
No.
Why?
'Cause it stinks.
Okay, give it back.
Come and get it.
Sorry, Megan. Not this time.
Wait a minute. I just...
I thank you for getting me out. But I gotta finish what I started.
Are you sure this is gonna work? I mean, why didn't we bring that gun and just blast him away?
It probably wouldn't have any effect on him. The only sure way to stop Jason is to return him to his original resting place, where he drowned in 1957.
Lake Forest Green?
Crystal Lake...where the nightmare began.
They did show up. Isn't that great?
I hope so.
Whew...Okay, hand me those padlocks.
Did you hear me?!
Yes. And I said, hand me those padlocks.
Come on, Dad. You could have Rick drive down Cunningham Road and look for them.
Megan, my deputies have more important things to do than look for camp counselors with car trouble.
Jason who?
Megan, get away from him. He's dangerous.
But, Dad, we...
Megan, take your friends back to the camp. I'll let you know if I hear anything about your counselors.
When are you going to stop treating me like one!
When you stop acting like one... Tommy Jarvis is a very sick boy. And you...
How do you know? Did you take his temperature?
You watch that smartmouthing, young lady.
What it is?
Not what...who. Seems your boyfriend wants people to believe Jason has returned.
I thought Jason was only a legend?
He is. Only Tommy wants to prove the legend is true... ...You stay put. And I'm not kidding.
...And I said, shut up!
All he's asking is for you to check it out.
Can't you at least call the camp and make sure everything's all right?
We have! Trying to track you down. The phone there is disconnected.
Rick. Keep and eye on our wacko kid. I'll be back as soon as I can.
Daddy, what is going on?
And make sure my daughter stays put... ...She's grounded.
No. No, it's not...
Yes, Megan. Tommy Jarvis is a killer. A very deranged boy who wants you to believe that...
Once we nail Roy, that's it. Victory is ours.
This is taking forever. I'm starving.
That's your problem, Larry. That's why your sales are always below quota. Your instinct to eat is stronger than your instinct to win.
My ass.
Yeah, that's fat too.
You become a whole other person when you're out here, Stan. And I don't like it.
This is a man's game. Requiring a man's cunning and intelligence...
Never should've let her play.
It's a damn company executive game, and she's a damn company exec.
....with a woman's touch.
Now wait a second! I thought Burt shot you.
See any paint?... ...Sorry, guys, I did in Mr. Commando. Survival is the name of the game, and that flag is mine.
Come on, you guys! The game's over!!
You don't know for sure. What about Roy? Nobody's seen him.
Of course not. If he hasn't already accidentally pelleted himself, I'm sure he's lost.
Yeah, but the game's not over until it's over.
Ahh, nothing.
I could swear I heard...
It's kinda frightening to think that a kid like that can go so far over the edge. Jason really screwed up the poor sonofabitch's mind.
He really believes Jason's still alive, doesn't he?
But that's no what worries me the most...It's how far he'll go to try and prove it.
I'm getting real tired of this maniac.
Maybe we better call that psychiatric clinic.
Better call an ambulance first.
Is that all you found?
I wish it was.
Better get out the Hefty Bags... Looks like our boy desperately wants us to believe his story.
He sure chose the right day to pull this shit.
Whaddya mean?
Happy Friday the 13th.
You just sit tight, Jason. Once the authorities from Carpenter get here, you'll...
Sheriff, you better take this.
Will you slow down? It's hard enough to read this thing.
Well, who told me to take this cow path?
You admit the sign did say "Camp Forest Green," with an arrow pointing this way.
I admit nothing without talking to my lawyer.
Darren, we better turn around.
Why?
Why? Because I've seen enough horror movies to know masked weirdos are never friendly.
Yeah... We're gonna scare him.
We're gonna scare him?!
That's right. Just drive toward him. He'll move. Nobody wants to die.
That's a freakin' fact. Least of all us.
Just drive. He'll get out of our way.
Oh, jeez.
That's it. We're driving this baby back to town... in reverse.
Don't worry about it. Just stay cool.
Stay cool? You ain't Dirty Harry. Now stop it.
I thought that was the end of the song.
Great. Just great.
If this thing is burned out, friggin' Horace will ground my butt.
Who's Horace?
My friggin' stepfather and asshole inresidence.
What?
Go out and plug the cord back in.
What? Who pulled it out?!
Will you hurry up! I gotta get this fuckmobile back before Horace finds out I took it.
Alright, alright.
That's it. Pull over. I'm drivin'.
No way... ...I wanna rock!
Hi.
You're Shelly?
I'm sorry.
What d'ya got in there?
My whole world.
In that little thing?
Stick around and you'll see.
What are we gonna do?
Destroy the evidence, Pronto!
Faster! Eat faster!
Why don't you help us?
Uh... I guess I'm just not hungry.
That scarecrow? Can't you tell how weird his is just by looking at him.
Come on, Shelly. Who else is gonna give him a lift?
Not us! He's really creepy.
Is... is everything all right?
Everything's gonna be fine.
Excuse me, but I believe that's mine...
Please... be cool.
May be please have the wallet.
Are they following us?
Yes.
Gulp!
See anything?
Just a dirty window. Next time, I'll know how to handle a situation like that. Let's just hope that "next time" isn't too soon.
Stop worrying. I don't think they'll bother to come after us.
I don't see anything.
Keep looking.
Got any good ideas?
Maybe.
This is no time to celebrate!
Just keep your eyes on the road.
What're you doing?
No time to explain. Just listen. When I yell "stop," you jam on the brakes as hard as you can. Okay?
You're the boss.
Bullseye!
Stop the car! Now!!
This has been on helluva beginning to a quiet weekend in the country.
Look at it this way... things can only get better... Right?
We had a slight misunderstanding with that motorcycle gang... ... but Shelly made them see the error of their ways.
It was nothing.
We're really sorry, but it wasn't our fault.
A few minor repairs and it'll be as good as new.
Vera... you and I have had a chance to really get to know one another today. I like you... very much. I was thinking that maybe.
Don't say any more.
You've just learned a valuable lesson. A beautiful girl like you should never go out in the dark alone.
Damn you, Shelly!
Why do you do these stupid things?!
I have to.
You don't "have to."
I just want you to like me.
I do like you. But not when you act like a jerk.
Being a jerk is better than being nothing.
I never said you were "nothing".
You don't to say it. I can tell.
You're wrong.
Derek... stop.
Why?
You know what I've been through. Don't ever scare me like that.
I'm sorry. I just wanted to surprise you. What can I say?
You can say... "Hello, how are you?"... for starters.
Hello. How are you?
You haven't changed a bit. Always so sure of yourself. Even when we were kids, when you wanted something, nothing could stop you.
Is that so bad?
I don't know.
You're irresistible. I lose control.
Just slow down. Let me get to know you again. Let me get to know this place again.
Okay. There's a whole weekend ahead of us. There's time.
This door was open just a minute ago, wasn't it?
What?
Nothing.
Look what I found. Remember these?
Did you stay here last night?
No. I got here just before you did.
Somebody was in here.
Goldilocks and the Three Bears?
I'm serious. Doesn't this look a little strange to you?
Shelly! Where are you?!
Are you all right, Shelly?
Let's spread out and check all the rooms. Outside, too. You stay with me.
No. I can look around by myself. I'll take the upstairs.
This is too painful to look at.
Why don't we drive over to the cove and watch the sunset. It'll mellow you out.
You know, I'm not sure I could live anywhere else. The nights are always so peaceful and quiet.
It's deceiving.
What do you mean?
The quiet can fool you. It fooled me. You can never be sure of what's out there.
Why did you come back here?
... To prove something to myself... to prove I'm stronger than I think I am.
And, what about us?
I'm here with you. Can't that be enough for now?
I don't know. I don't see you for months on end, and when I do, you put this wall between us. How do I break through?
I'm trying. I'm really trying.
What happened that night?
You promised you'd never ask me.
After you left me that night, I didn't see you or talk to you again for a year. No one would tell me anything. All I know is what the police told me. We have nowhere to go unless you let me in. What happened?
When you dropped me off at the house, it was very late. My parents were waiting up for me. As soon as I got in the door, they starting yelling and cursing at me. I was so upset... I told them I slept with you. My mothers slapped me. That was the first time she'd ever hit me. I couldn't believe it. I ran out of the house and into the woods as fast and as far as I could run. I was crying. They had destroyed the most beautiful night of my life and I wanted to punish them for that. I decided to hide out all night. They'd be so worried that they'd be sorry for what they did to me. The woods were cold and damp from the rain. I found a dry spot under a rotted oak tree and I guess I fell asleep. All I can remember next is being startled out of sleep by the sound of footsteps. I thought it was my father so I hid behind the tree. But the footsteps just stopped. The woods were dark. I couldn't see anything. I heard a cracking noise behind me. I turned around and... and... oh, God... there was this hideous looking man. So grotesque he was almost inhuman. He had a knife and he started to slash away at me, again and again. I was so hysterical and I don't know how I was able to get away. I ran and ran, but he kept coming. He was big but so fast. He caught me and pulled me down to the ground and he... he... ripped my blouse off. I was screaming, but who could hear me? Then... oh, God... he dragged me by the hair along the ground. I was kicking and yelling. He dragged me deeper and deeper into the woods. Oh, please... please...
It's all right, you're all right. I'm with you.
Could we move a little faster?
Sure, just watch where you're going.
You know him?
Sort of.
Which one is it?
It's the last house on the left. She lives downstairs.
I appreciate the fact that you worry about me, but don't.
Okay, we won't. We'll just have fun, all agreed?
What are they saying?
I don't know. I flunked Spanish.
Come on down!
You go ahead...
What's this?
Your bed.
A hammock?
Have you ever made love in a hammock?
Destroy the evidence? No, man!
Yes, man!
I'm gonna be sicker than all of you, man. Now I gotta spend the whole weekend totally straight... I don't think I can make it, man!
Chuck... look.
I'm a slow eater.
I love you, man!
It's dark down there.
That's the way it is, man. Cellars are dark.
And Hell is hot, but I ain't goin' down there either.
Maybe we should do some exercise.
This is all the exercise I need...
I can't find the bong anywhere. Can't you remember where you dropped it?
I can't even remember what day it is, man.
It's Friday the 13th.
What's the matter?!
Nothin'. I was just foolin' around.
Don't do that to me!
Here. Go down the cellar and check the fusebox.
Will you come with me?
Be a man, man.
What're you gonna do?
Maybe this wasn't such a good idea.
So what would a weekend in the country be without sex?
Cool it, Andy.
I didn't mean it the way it sounded...
Breakfast?
No way. We're pregnant. Remember?
What was that?
Where's Shelly?
Why don't we go take a swim?
I don't know...
We'd be all alone. We could do anything we wanted and nobody would see.
Sounds disgusting. Let's go.
What're you doing?
We haven't looked in the barn, yet. Let's take a look.
Not now. I'm cold.
How about a roll in the hay?
You can play with yourself, 'cause I'm going in the house.
How about you and I whacking a couple of balls around?
If you insist.
How do we do it?
First we take off our clothes, then you get on top of me or I get on top of you...
I know how to do it. I mean, how do we do it in the hammock?
Think you can figure it out?
I'll think of something.
That was the best yet. Was it you... me... or the hammock?
I vote for me.
I vote for the hammock.
What're you doin'?
I think it's called "a shower". You might try it sometime.
You're too clean for me.
Hey Deb... can you hear me?
Barely.
I'm going downstairs to get a beer. You want one?
What?
Do you want a beer or not?
Sure.
Dammit Shelly! Why do you always have to be such an asshole!
I beg your pardon, I'm not an asshole. I'm an actor.
Same thing.
Look Shelly, you're my roommate and I like you... most of the time. But you gotta stop doing these things. Now, I set this date up for you, didn't I? So don't embarrass me. When you meet this woman, just relax and be yourself.
Would you be yourself... ...if you looked this this?
No more... I can't!
Yes, you can. Come on, Shelly!
Who brought up this bright idea?
We were looking for something to keep our hands busy. It was either this or an orgy. Vera chose this. What're ya gonna do?
... One thousand twelve... one thousand thirteen... one thousand fourteen... What's the World's Record for this?
According to the Guinness Book, you passed the World's Record several whacks ago.
I did?! I broke the world's record.
You're all just jealous.
Actually, I have no idea what the World's Record is. I was just kidding.
My name is Abel. And I am my brother's keeper.
Where are you going?
Going? How do you mean?
I mean, is there any place in particular where we can drop you off?
Drop me off? How do you mean?
What is that?
I found this today. There were other pieces of the body lying there, but I believe "he" wanted me to have this...
That's an eyeball! Oh, God!
"He" wanted me to warn you. Look at this, all of you!
Just came by to wrap up over there. Thought I'd say "hello."
Glad you did. Come on in. Buy you a cup of coffee?
Wife around?
No. No. Well, sort of. In my heart. Been dead 29 years.
Oh. Sorry. How so?
You used to be on the job?
Yeah, long time ago. I know you?
I look familiar?
No. What house you work?
The 23. Homicide.
A hot shot, huh?
Nah, just working the job.
I hear that.
As a matter of fact, I caught a case that goes back to your day...one of the Nightingale murders.
No kiddin'?
No. Missing teenager. Disappeared thirty years ago. Found her bones last week. Buried behind some old diner, up by Dyckman street. Mary Finelli.
Huh.
Talk about dumb luck. Odds of anybody finding that girl, thirty years later. And then the chances of hitting a dental...forget about it. Bets part is she's the first victim. She knew the doer. I'm betting those bones are gonna do a lot of talking.
Who are you?
I'm the train wreck you didn't see coming. And I'm gonna steal your life away. You went down 30 years ago. You just don't know it yet.
Hell
You have the right to remain silent. If you give up that right...
Who the fuck is this?
Anything you say can and will be used against you in a court of law.
Sullivan?
You have the right to speak to an att 
Fuck you, asshole.
It's a small world, Carl. And I'm gonna find you. Real soon.
Hi, this is Julia. Please leave a message after the tone.
Hey, Ma, it's me. Checking in. Probably at work. Anyways, I'll see you tomorrow night. Love you.
I thought it'd be nicer to eat here.
Sounds good.
I'm sorry Sam couldn't make it.
Yeah, those grad school applications are driving her crazy.
I'm sure everything'll work out. She really loves you...
So how are things at the hospital?
Fine. You know Dr. Schwartz retired last month?
No kidd'n, he musta been pushing 90!
Close.
So how'd you like LION KING?
Oh, I loved it. I wish you'd gone.
I know. I'm sorry. Work.
You work too hard, John.
Look who's talking.
Hey, future boy. Frank tells me you're a cop?
Yeah, that's right.
My six yearold here keeps telling me he wants to be a policeman. Right after he retires from the majors. We just gave him a badge and a whistle for his birthday.
Yeah...I remember. I used to play cops and robbers but y ...my mom wouldn't let me have a toy gun.
You're mom sounds like she's got some smarts.
She's pretty special.
Are you a good cop, John?
I try to be.
Then I'll bet she's real proud of you, huh?
Yeah. I just wish I'd told her how proud I was of her.
I'm sorry. I didn't realize... But she knew, John. A mother knows what's in her son's heart.
Don't choke on your pride, Sull. You ain't ever gonna catch another one like that.
She made up her mind. Nothin' I do is gonna change it.
Nothing you're willing to do.
You're not looking too good.
Whoa, I just...I just...
Maybe you outta lay off a little...
Gordo, I wasn't dreaming. I talked to him, it was real.
Another rough night, huh? That it?
Yeah. That's it.
This is getting real old, John. And I'm tired up to here with it...
I'm sorry. I just...you know...I...
And I'm tired of the I'm sorrys. I don't need 'em. What I need is a partner I can count on. I care about you. Not cause of me and your old man. Not cause of your mom. But because of you.
She makes ten.
Ten? No. I remember this case. Three. He killed three women.
What're you talking'? You know better than anybody, John. You've read this file a thousand times.
That's what we need here, Satch. A lucky break.
That wasn't luck, Johnny boy. That was smarts and ten plus on the job.
Our lucky break. Mario ID'd the dental. Mary Finelli...reported missing April 16, 1968.
April 16...? That means she was the first.
Which means he probably knew her.
This case just got hot. We pull on this string...
Okay, lemme walk you through it.
Mind if I shake it off first...so's I can concentrate better.
I ran him through BCI...got a hit. Busted for sexual assault: March 22, 1970. Eight days after the last Nightingale murder.
So you figure the murders stop 'cause he's off the street. Then by the time he gets paroled, he's smartened up enough to control himself?
Not the first time that's been true. I'm telling you, I got a feeling about this guy. This is the guy, Satch.
Uh, huh.
What?
I'm just trying to figure what interests me more: the possibility that Daryl is the guy, or you making him absolutely the guy.
Got a minute?
Yeah. Sure.
He ain't our guy, John.
Just cause he didn't want to look at the photos doesn't mean he isn't the doer. Not everyone fits the profile.
I'm not your uncle, kid. Gordo, what are you doing here?
Sully! Is that you?
Hey, Sull. My cable's out again.
What the hell is that smell?
Hey, OK if Gordy uses your old gear?
I think it's somewhere in the closet... if you can find it.
Sull! What the hell!
I talked to him Gordo. I talked to my Dad.
C'mon, man. Get inside. I'll come over. We'll play some Nintendo.
No. I gotta tell him the address, so he doesn't go in.
Go in where?
The warehouse. Buxton seeds. It's tomorrow.
I know pal. I remember. Twentynine years tomorrow.
How you feeling?
Better.
John. John, you all right?
Longbranch...?
What?
My father didn't die in a fire?
Huh?
My father didn't die in a fire?
Fire? What are you talking about? He had cancer, John.
Cancer. It was the cigarettes. Right? The cigarettes?
Yeah, lung cancer. Ten years ago.
Huh?
The Ham radio. That's how come he didn't die in the fire.
This is the Space Cowboy. I'm an intergalactic traveler from the Federation planet earth.
Gordo?
How'd you know my name, mister?
I better give you my address then.
Oh don't worry kid, I know where you live. Now I want you to go upstairs and write this down, buy Yahoo. You got that Space Cowboy. Yahoo. It's a magic word and I never want you to forget it.
You got a deal, mister. I mean Santa.
Uh, hello?
WB2YKXB, who've I got?
Name's John.
Are you licensed to broadcast, buddy?
Look, I don't really remember how this thing works.
Listen, you can't broadcast without a license. Unless this is an emergency, you gotta get off the band.
Pal, my whole life's an emergency.
Where are you transmitting from?
Queens, New York.
Whatta ya know. Bayside, born and raised.
I thought these things were for talkin' around the world.
15band closes down at night. During the day you can chew the band with China if you want.
I can't believe people are still using these things.
Sorry 'bout that. So Queens, you psyched for the Series?
I don't really follow baseball anymore.
What?
I got fed up with all the bullshit.
Fed up? Lemme tell you something, in a 1000 years, when school kids study America, they're gonna learn about three things: the Constitution, Rock 'n' Roll, and Baseball.
I'm right with you, man. He's got the heart of a lion. Hey, how 'bout the first game of the Series?
Yeah. It was all over after Buford nailed Seaver's first pitch outta the park.
...WB2YXB calling unidentified station, Queens. CQ 15.
Hello?
I been Qing you all night. How the hell did you do it?
Huh?
The World Series. You called Buford's homer.
Wasn't too tough, buddy. Game happened almost thirty years ago.
What are you talking about? I'm talking about this afternoon.
This afternoon?
Sorry 'bout that.
What'd you just say?
Oh, that was my kid.
You call your son Little Chief?
Uh huh...
What'd you say your name was?
Frank...Frank Sullivan.
Is this some kind of joke? Gordo is that you? Are you fucking with me?
Look pal, I'm just askin' how you...
You're telling me your name is Frank Sullivan, you live in Queens and you just saw the first game of the '69 Series...live?
Right...and I'm asking how you called the game.
Gordo, if this is you, so help me...
What the hell does Gordy have to do with it?
What'd you say your station...uh, your call letters were?
W...B...2...YXB.
Now you listen to me. My name is John Francis Sullivan, I live at 1060 41st, where I've lived my whole life. And I saw the first game of the '69 Series at my Uncle Butch's house with my father...
What?
29years ago.
29 years...?
My dad's name was Frank Patrick Sullivan, he was a fire fighter and a diehard Mets fan. And every night when I went to bed he sang to me... Take me out to the ball game, take me out with the crowd...
What the hell...
I'm dreaming this. Shit, this is a dream.
I'm not dreaming.
What's going on?
Nothing...I just spilled something.
Oh my god.
What?
You just burned the desk.
What's happening?
That's impossible.
What if it's not...
Dad...?
Johnny...?
How could this be happening?
I don't know.
We gotta be bouncing off the mother sun spot of all time.
Sun spot?
Yeah, that's how Hams work.
Wait a sec...there was something on the news. Something about this space anomaly. I think they said it was connected to some storm in '69.
You sound...ground up...?
I'm thirtyfive years old.
Thirtyfive? That would make it...
1998.
1998...? This is wrong. Who are you? Why are you doing this?
I'm not doing anything. Look, I don't know what's going on. But I swear on my life, I"m here at your old desk, on your Ham, in our house, right now...in 1998.
It's really you, isn't it?
Yeah...I think so.
No, not yet.
Too busy playin' ball, huh?
Nah, I gave it up.
You're still my Little Chief, right?
I'm trying to be, Dad. I'm tyrin'. It's good to hear your voice. I missed you...so much.
What's that?
I think I'm losing you.
No wait, don't go!
It's okay. I'm still here, Chief.
But you're not...you're not still here.
What are you talking about?
I lost you.
What?
I never knew you, Dad.
Why?
Fire.
On the job?
It was an abandoned warehouse  hit by lightening. Butch told Ma it was just one wrong turn. Said it wasn't your fault. You went with the training, with your instincts. If you'd just gone left instead of right, you would've made it.
That can't be...that's not gonna happen.
It did, Pop. It did.
When?
October 12, 1969.
But that's tomorrow.
Tomorrow. Jesus...it hasn't happened. It doesn't have to happen.
Don't go. Don't go in that warehouse...
I don't understand.
Dad...?
Chief?! Is that you?
Yeah, it's me.
You're the voice of an angel, Johnny. If you hadn't told me, no way I would'a ever made it.
Dad, you there? You okay?
Yeah. I'm okay. What about you? I want to know. About you. And your mom.
We're doing all right, Dad. We're doing good.
Tell me.
It's hard to explain. Something happened today. It was like a dream. And when I woke up I had all these new memories. Good times. Times we never had before.
I'm glad.
Dad, I gotta tell you this...cause you should know. Cause I still remember.
What, Johnny? What is it?
What it was like when you died in the fire...
Right here, Chief. Sorry I lost you last night. Damn thing keeps cutting out.
Dad...Dad... There's... I need to...
Are you alright"?
Something happened, something...
What? Johnny, what's wrong?
It's Mom.
What? What is it?
She's not here.
Whatta you mean she's not here?
She...she died. It's like it just happened.
She just died, your mother just died?
No Dad, it happened a long time ago, a long time ago for me.
When?
October 22, 1969.
Jesus Christ...that's...ten days from now. How?
Murdered? Why?
There was this case. A serial. He murdered three women, all nurses, between '68 and '69. The papers called them the Nightingale Murders. They never caught him. But the killings just stopped.
What kinda twisted animal.
Dad, we did something. Something to make it worse.
Whatta you mean...
He didn't just kill three women anymore. He killed ten.
What are you talking about?
Something we did changed the case...changed history. Mom wasn't dead. But then after you didn't die in the fire something must have happened. And this guy, this Nightingale guy, he kept on killing...it was like a spree...seven more women.
I gotta take her away, John. I'm gonna take your mother away. He can't hurt her if I take her away.
I don't know... What about the other women?
I'll warn them.
That'll never work. They'll just think you're crazy.
What can we do? You don't even know who this guy is.
No. Nobody got... Wait a minute. I might not know who he is, but I know where he's gonna be. I got the case file. We know what he's gonna do before he does it.
So what should I do? Call the police? You think they'll believe me?
They will if they catch him in the act. You can make that happen, Dad. You can tail the victim and call it in at just the right moment.
I don't know, John. I'm a fire fighter. This is...this is different.
I do know. I'm a cop. This is what I do.
You ever talk to a victim's family? The one's left behind? They don't act like what you'd think. There's panic and fear. But mostly, it's like there's this logic problem. And if they could only solve it, everything would be okay. But if you look real close  look at their eyes  you can see it. Just a glimmer. But somewhere they know. They know their world is never gonna be the same.
What if the radio stops working? Christ, what if I can't reach you again?
Then you get Mom the hell out. But Dad, those other women weren't supposed to die. We don't try to stop this guy, we're gonna live with that for the rest of our lives.
Why not just get the cops to watch the bar?
They'll question her. Whatever they tell her could change what happens. No, I want you to follow her. See if anybody's watching her, hittin' on her. I'm betting somebody's gonna walk outta that bar with her. When they do, you call the cops.
What do I tell them?
Tell 'em there's a homicide in progress... cause by the time they show up there will be.
I'll be damned.
Did you see him? Do you know who he is?
No. I just kept talking to her. There was a lot of guys in that bar  could'a been any of 'em.
It's okay. This is working. This is gonna work.
Whatta we do now?
Sissy Clark, 190 Riverside Dr., apartment 3C. Tomorrow. She's a nursing student. Paying her way as a cocktail waitress at the Peppermint Lounge, on west 63rd. Left work at two A M...killed in her apartment, between two thirty and five.
Got it.
Dad, I think I may be able to get you enough information to make sure the DA can nail this bastard.
How?
Coupla days ago they dug up a body in Washington Heights  Mary Finelli. Girl disappeared in '68. Turns out she was his first kill. Which means he probably knew her. Most serials know their first victim. I'm gonna do some checking  see if I can put any of this together...
All right, I'm with you. I just hope we know what the hell we're doing.
Tell me something good, Chief. Tell me about the future.
Well they found out cigarettes give you lung cancer.
What else, John. It must be different, huh? Are people living on the moon?
Didn't happen, we got enough problems down here.
What are we like in...1998?
We're okay...we're good, Dad.
Hey, what about the Amazin's? They pull it off?
You really wanna know?
Yeah, you betcha.
Well, game five was the big one. It turned in the bottom of the 6th. We were down 30. Cleon Jones gets hit on the foot  left a scuff mark on the ball. Clendenon comes up. The count goes to 2 2. High fastball. He nailed it. Weis slammed a solo shot in the 7th to tie. Jones and Swoboda scored in the 8th. We won, Pop.
Wow.
Hang on a sec, John.
You there?
John, say hello to my wife...Julia.
Hhi.
John, you still there?
I'm right here, Dad.
You all right?
Yeah, I think so...
Don't worry, Chief. I'm not gonna let anything happen to her...no matter what.
He killed her John. He killed her and I didn't do a thing to stop it.
It's not your fault, Dad.
Yes it is...we did this. We changed everything. I've been having bad dreams, Johnny. Dreams where I die...in the fire. I was supposed to die in that warehouse.
No.
This is wrong...it's like we cheated...
I know... But Dad, you can't go back. You didn't die in that fire. And no matter what you do, nothing is gonna change that. So all we can do is deal with this...and try to make it right.
I don't think I can. I'm not a cop. I can't. I can't stop this guy.
But we can, we can do it together. Spirit and guts, remember?
Johnny, I know, but...
I need you to believe in me. To believe that we can do this.
John, he's got my driver's license.
What?
He took my driver's license, John, he knows where we live.
He took your wallet?
No, he tossed the wallet, but he kept the license.
He touched your wallet! Where's your wallet?
In my pocket.
We got him! Dad you got him!
What?
His prints. You've got his prints. I'll run them through criminal index. You gotta get me that wallet.
How the hell am I gonna do that?
Listen to me, very carefully, take your wallet out, just touch it on the corners.
What...
Please, Dad, just do it.
Okay, okay...
I got it.
Right, now I need you to tape it up on the outside, where he touched it, so the prints keep.
Huh?
It's gonna work, Dad. We're gonna stop him.
Hang on.
You're telling me this maniac is a cop? What the hell am I supposed to do with that one?
Call the FBI. Use a pay phone. Don't give 'em your name, Dad. Just tell 'em that it was Shepard who killed Finelli and Clark and the others. That he's the Nightingale.
What are you doing here, Satch? You off today?
Dad, you there?
Dad, what the hell is going on?
Just a minute, John...okay? Don't go away.
John, you there?
Yeah, Dad. What the hell is going on?
Satch is busting me for Sissy Clark's murder. John...
I'm here, Dad. I'm here.
We did it, John. We stopped him.
Wait. Something's wrong. I don't...
What's wrong?
I don't remember. Why don't I remember?
Looks like two weeks worth of allowance, Chief.
I know. Sorry, Dad.
Glad to hear that.
Okay, start pedaling.
Daddy put the wheels back on. I'm gonna fall.
Don't think about falling, just keep pedaling.
Daddy, I'm scared.
C'mon, Chief, show some guts.
Daddy, come up and sing the baseball.
I'll be up soon, Little Chief.
I'm scared.
Don't be scared. This time I'm right behind you if you fall.
Daddy, Daddy, I can't.
No, but we can. We can do it together. Spirit and guts, Chief.
You ready?
Wait...
I'm right here behind you...
Yes! That's it! You got it, you got it! Way to go, Chief!
I'm doing it! I'm doing it!
Lucky throw, fire boy.
Luck, my ass.
Okay, I'm on it. Hey.
Hello, Frank.
Frank, we need to talk...
John, hold on a second. I'm in the middle of something important here. You mind if...
Satch, you gotta just give me...Satch is here John. You hear me? Satch is here.
I'm sorry, Frank, but you need to come outside.
What is going on here, Satch? What are those guys doing out there?
I think you know, Frank.
No, I don't.
Let's go outside and talk. We need to do that.
About what?
Let's go. Do us both a favor.
What do you mean?
Do you know where I found this?
415 Greenwich St. #302. Under the body of a murdered woman.
No. This isn't what you think.
I wanna be wrong here. But we need to go to the precinct and talk about it.
Okay, okay. I need to go say something to Julia and finish up with the guy on the radio.
You can talk to Julia. Forget the radio.
I swear, Satch.
Uh, huh... Uh, huh. And you got this from the guy you were talking to on the radio when I came in?
As nuts as that sounds, yes.
Uh, huh.
Satch, would you listen to me here. Just you and me. Can I talk to you here, alone?
Frank, this is not the time to be worried about covering up if you had a thing with this girl.
He's not gonna stop, Satch. He's gonna keep on...
Are you listening to me? You're in a world of shit. An eye witness has you outside the dead girl's apartment. We got your prints all over the place. Plus the fucking driver's license, Frank. You gotta give me something here. Something I can believe.
What if I could prove it to you, Satch?
How's that?
What if I told you that in the bottom of the 6th we're gonna be down 30. And Cleon Jones is gonna get hit in the foot. It's gonna leave a scuff mark on the ball.
Frank, please...
The next batter, Clendenon, hits one outta the park.
Frank, this is insane...
In the bottom of the 7th, Weis is gonna hit a solo home run. Jones and Swoboda are gonna score in the 8th. The Mets are gonna win 53. Go watch the game, Satch.
Go watch the game? Go watch the fucking game? Frank, they're gonna make you for Sissy Clark's murderer. It matches the Nightingale's profile. You understand what that means?
Deleon.
Satch, you gotta listen to me...
Frank. We know. We know it's Shepard.
No kidding. I'm on the corner of 65th and CPW. Come get me.
You missed a hell of a game, Frank.
Next time lets put some money on it.
Get him home safe.
Hey, bud.
Hey, bud.
How about a little of the King?
Well, why not a little of the King?
Damn.
You alright?
I think I ruined the sauce...again.
What's the matter, Jules? Trouble workin' an eight hour shift, watching the kid and whipping up a little bolognese?
You didn't marry Donna Reed.
I'd go with you and Chinese takeout over her any time.
How was your tour?
The usual.
Butch called.
Did he?
He did.
It was under control, Bud. Butchy's just getting tight in his old age.
Nothing wrong with old age, Frank...long as you get there.
Frankie, Johnny wants to say goodnight.
Sure.
Frank...what's wrong?
Nothing. I just wanted to see you.
Where's Johnny?
I tucked him in at Gordo's.
You give him his drops?
One in each ear. What would you do without me?
Probably marry some rich doctor and never have to work...
I love you, Bud.
I love you more.
Boy is he excited about the game tomorrow.
He ain't the only one.
I'm off.
Wish you weren't.
Do you know how much I love you?
There's something I gotta take care of. Something I need to tell you about.
Okay...
I've been talking to this...guy...this cop...on the HAM...and, uh, he...
Honey, what is it? Just tell me.
I've been talking to Johnny...on the radio.
I know. He loves that thing.
No. Not our Johnny. I mean, it's Johnny...but not now...in the future.
I'll be upstairs...if you want to play.
I'm serious.
So am I.
Jules, I want you to say hello to somebody... I'm on with John  that guy I told you about.
The future guy?
Yeah, but, no kidding around, he's a good guy, a real good guy...
Then you gotta hide it somewhere. Somewhere where nobody's gonna find it...for 29 years! Put it under the loose floorboard by the window!
I gotcha, I gotcha Chief!
Hey, bud.
Frank...
Oh, man. Hope it ain't like this in Baltimore tomorrow.
Baltimore?
The game, Graham. The Series?
Oh, yeah. Damn. My watch is busted.
Hey, Rookie. Be cool. Just stay with me. This is what we do.
I seem nervous, huh?
Frank. We gotta go back. Frank...
Stay with me, Gib. We're gonna do this.
I should'a been a fucking mailman.
Frank. Hey, man. You alright?
I'm alright, Gibby.
It looks open on the other side.
Don't know what's behind it.
One way to find out.
Gotta be another way up, Frank.
Then fuckin' find it. I'm going for the girl.
You okay, man?
Elvis has left the building.
Why haven't they killed the juice?
Switches are shorted out.
You're shitting me!
Wish I was. Oldest part of the system down there. We're on it, but it's gonna take awhile.
We gotta go underground. Get those guys out, now.
We tried. Bulkhead door's rusted shut. Won't budge.
How do we get to the vault door?
There's a manhole at Canal and Bowery.
You got a collar in here for the Nightingale murders?
Yeah.
I'm working with one of the victims outta Brooklyn North. You mind I take a shot at him?
That's Deleon and Hayes' collar.
They around?
Just missed Deleon. Hayes is up in the squad.
Where's the collar, in the cells?
No, I think he's up in interrogation.
I'll go find Hayes.
That was over thirty years ago. I paid for that and then some.
You go to Xavier High School, Daryl?
Yeah.
You remember Mary Finelli?
What are you saying?
You know what I'm saying.
No, I don't.
Well, I think you do.
Sexual assault, Daryl. Five years. But you got lucky, right? You got away with something else. Something you figured nobody knows about.
What I know is what I told you.
Let me tell you what I know, Daryl. You went to Saint Xavier with Mary. You lived five blocks from her. You liked her. But she ain't interested. That must've hurt, huh?
So what?
So, what'd you do about it, Daryl?
Nothing.
Oh, my God! What is that?! Why you showing me this shit!? JESUS! JESUS! Get those away from me!
Nicky Moore. Patty Ryan. Mary Finelli. These names mean anything to you, asshole? Julia Sullivan! She mean anything? She means something to me!
What am I, a shmuck? What's the hurry? He could see a couple of shows and visit the top of the Empire State Building.
Joel, don't jerk me. I spent a lot o' time settin' this one up.
So whatta you want a badge? It's your first major league game Sal. One thing I learned, move calmly, move cautiously. You'll never be sorry.
I been damn careful up to now.
Which is why your phone lines are tapped and the Feds are crawlin' all over you like flies.
I'm straight, Joel. They haven't got shit on me. Look, I'm tellin' you, he'll take the deal somewhere else.
He could go someplace else with his sixty kilos of heroin and see how easy it is to pull together a half million cash. He wouldn't find there was any hurry to do this kind of business.
There are four auto graveyards like this one in the other boroughs, handling about a thousand vehicles a month. Those that aren't claimed are auctioned here once a month.
Just for mistakes of parking?
No. Many are involved in crimes and confiscated... or just abandoned. This is, as you know, your prime source of scrap metal, M. Charnier.
Darling, may I have this one?
Two railroads as part of a connecting railway which provided passage from New England to the South. It was actually the first railroad through New York City.
Why is it called Hellgate?
The river at this point is the most dangerous on the East Coast. Years ago, hundreds of ships went down here.
I'm afraid the rest of Ward's Island isn't nearly as romantic  a pollution plant, a hospital, a training school for garbage men and that area over there, where the old cars are kept, prior to being processed for shipment to, among other places, The Charnier Shipping Company, of Marseilles, France.
What is that old building?
Oh, it's been abandoned for years.
What was it?
It was a crematorium.
For garbage?
For dead bodies.
Hey, Bo.
Hiya, Jesus.
Can you use a new suit for Christmans?
Whatta you got?
Where'd you get this fag shit?
This is what the tough guys are wearin'. You know I only steal from the best. It's Bonwit Teller.
Pass.
Forty dollars  was $250.
Whyn't you get it dry cleaned and burned.
Who stuck up the laundromat?
How about that time you were picking your feet in Poughkeepsie?
Havin' trouble? You're a dumb guinea.
How'd I know he had a knife.
Never trust a nigger.
He coulda been white.
Never trust anybody. You goin' sick?
Not a chance.
Let's popeye around the Chez for a half hour, catch the end of the show and a couple drinks.
Some other time Jimmy, I'm beat.
Come on  one drink. Whatta you say?
Drink this.
Whip it out.
I make at least two junk connections at that table in the corner. The guy is the stripe combo, I know him too.
Hey, I thought we come for a drink.
Who is that guy?
Policy man in Queens.
What about the last of the bigtime spenders. You make him?
No, you?
Hunhuh. Check the bread. He spreads it like the Russians are in Jersey.
He probably sells insurance. Owns a chicken farm in Hackensack.
Whatta you say we wait and give him a tail?
Give who a tail?
The greaser with the blonde.
What for  you wanna play Hide the Salami with his old lady?
Come on  just for fun 
Monica? Who's Monica?
A and A, that's all you're interested in  Arrests and Ass.
If that's not a drop or a pickup, I'll open a charge for you at Bloomingdale's.
Make it Alexander's, I like the toy department.
Toy wit' this will ya.
There's about a hundred years' parole time in there night or day.
I think we oughta burn him on suspicion.
Suspicion of what?
Makin' wine in the basement. He looks like that wop stooge used to drive for the Fracisi brothers.
No sir  this is where Joel lives.
He was the bank on that shipment outta Mexico three years ago.
What the hell am I drivin' for? I'm a first grade Detective. You're a second grade guinea.
I'm wounded. Oh, oh.
I'm goin' check on this address in the Bronx, if you're bullshitting me, it's your ass.
Tell everybody we'll be back in an hour.
We're goin' now! Goodbye.
We got information that there's no shit in the street  it's like a desert full of junkies with a big score coming in to make everybody well.
This could be it, Walter. This Candy Store guy, putting on a big show in a fancy nightclub with known connections all over him. Then on our own, after working the whole day and night, we tail him out to Brooklyn and sit on him for a week practically, and who do we come up with? Joel Weinstock. You gotta let us have it.
Popeye.
Yeah.
It's Cloudy. Open the door.
I can't.
Why not?
Let yourself in.
What happened to you?
The crazy kid handcuffed me to the bed. With my own cuffs.
You got the warrant?
We also got Bill Mulderig and Phil Klein.
Throw 'em in the bathroom, will you? How good are the warrants?
Sixty days. Here. Don't mention it.
You want the red or the white?
Pour it in your ear.
The guy's a frog  I'm pretty sure. Also he made me. Stayin' on four but went up to six  cute.
The other guy's a frog too. Checked in at the Edison. Had a hooker sent up.
What about Sal?
We put him to bed for the night.
This fella Nicoli's got a record in France, Walter. He's wanted for questioning in the murder of a French cop.
I say we keep sittin' on Boca.
My ass. The only reason you're in this is because you've got a big expense account for buying junk and you like to see your picture in the papers.
This is my case. Get these guys off my back and let me handle it.
Timezit?
Four.
Same car.
Third time around.
Christ you should o' collared him right there.
Who's on him?
Why don't you do the same, Doyle? You look like shit.
Look. My partner and I found this case and I don't want no Feds screwing it up.
Case? So far I haven't seen a damn thing.
Bill, keep shootin' your mouth off and I'll knock you into the middle of next week.
Yeah, we got the Westbury covered like a tent.
The Westbury? Balls. I got him down at the subway at Times Square. What the hell's goin' on? I make him coming right out of the hotel free as a bird. Not a soul awake.
That's crazy. You lost the Frog in the subway and you blew our cover. If they haven't moved already they're not gonna move now.
Walter, I can make this case if the Feds will get the hell out of my way.
A bunch of lousy little spic car thieves.
Nothing in there except a New York street map.
Tumble it. One end to the other.
What about you, Doyle? Who's the best fighter you ever seen?
Willie Mays.
What ya doin' out so late? Hidin' from the cops?
I hear the health department is going to close this joint for selling dirty beer. I come by to help you carry out your money.
They'll close you down if they ever get a look at those bustedvalise broads you run with.
You want some eggs.
Why not?
Hey, Mutch! You want bacon?
Yeah!
Where the hell is it?
Where the hell do you think it is, potato head?
I got this little chick I'm tryin' to hit on. She's about 20, 21... I take her to Jilly's last night and she's tellin' me about how she wants to settle down one day, get married... I says, "Hey, this is 1971, baby, I'm just a dirty old man lookin' to score with some pussy."
Strike out, eh?
Yeah. In the late innings. Ya look like a night's sleep wouldn't kill ya.
A piece of ass wouldn't kill me.
When ya go back on?
Morning. Sometime.
Whyn't ya stretch out on the pool table for a couple hours. The kid comes in at six will wake ya. A couple eggs and a beer is cheaper than keepin' a dog around the joint.
I'm sorry, I don't know who you mean.
He got off on six.
We have four rooms and six suites on six. There's a man in almost every one of them.
There's nobody like that on six.
Perhaps he's visiting a guest.
No, I figure he stays here. Where's your registration?
There may be two... no, three who could fit it.
Names.
A Mr. Paul Ganapolos, he's here alone.
Where from?
Des Moines.
What's he do?
Businessman. Owns a department store in Des Moines, I think.
Mr. and Mrs. Alain Charnier, would be another. He's in shipping.
Yeh? Who else?
And a Mr. Michael Lowenstein, I don't know what he does.
This Charnier guy. He's in shipping?
I think so. But they're in Room 408. On the fourth floor.
Where's he from?
Marseilles.
DOYLE +++$+++
That's in France.
Yeah, I know.
What's your story?
Gimme a break, Mr. Russo. I'm in show business.
You're in show business.
S'right.
All right, get up on that bar and dance.
What?
Get up on the bar and show me how you work. If I like it you don't have to go in.
You're for real?
I got no music!
Fake it.
It's beautiful.
It was built in 1917  and was one of the two heaviest bridges in the world. The arch is still the largest in the world.
Who financed it?
If this bridge were in Europe, it would be on every tourist's sight seeing list.
Most New Yorkers never notice it  most Americans have never heard of it.
Look how gracefully they conceived that arch. Like a bowstring. It was built from both ends. With no support in the middle. Beautiful.
Mmm.
Sale boulot.
Il fallait le faire.
Il est en retard.
Je crois qu'on fait une erreur de le prendre avec nous.
Une erreur! C'est gnial. C'est une vedette la tlvision. Il peut aller partout sans tre souponn... En plus il a besoin de fric.
J'ai pas confiance en lui.
Sois gentil avec lui. On ne sait jamais. Il peut te faire travailler la tlvision.
I'm afraid they've become a bit... overcautious. Our American friends.
What happens to the schedule?
We must follow it.
But will they?
I don't know. Boca is scared. He's not strong enough. He sees policemen in his soup.
He is not wrong.
Mmmmm. That bastard who followed me on the subway, he's the eager one.
There'll be someone else.
What difference does it make? We'll be out of the country Friday.
Tu sais j'ai rflchi longuement ton cadeau pour le voyage. Je l'ai choisi moimme. Tiens.
Je peux l'ouvrir tout de suite?
Si tu veux.
Oh Alain! C'est merveilleux! Tu me gtes. Je t'aime. Attends, je vais te montrer moi aussi ce que j'ai achet.
Encore du sho ping!
Regarde mon pcheur de baleine... Tu sais il va faire trs froid cet hiver.
Avec a tu pourras le supporter.
Mais non, c'est pour toi.
Pour moi?
Regarde, il te va parfaitement bien!
Formidable! Sans toi je m'habillerais encore en docker. Je suis pass voir Franoise.
Comment vatelle?
Je n'ai jamais vu tant de srenit. Elle m'a demand de tes nouvelles et si nous tions heureux.
Le sommes nous?
Non!
Alain is the only man I know who can become as enthusiastic about a bridge as he can about a woman.
Not any woman, Marie. Just one.
Are you sure it is dead?
I'm going to put them on the cat.
That's a relief.
Allo... Salvatore...
Who's this 
... Salvatore?...
Twelve o'clock... yes...
Yes 
Everything's smooth. Beautiful. I will need a few more days though, the boys think we oughta cool it for awhile  make sure there's no heat.
You must take me for an imbecile. Why do you think I asked you to meet me in Washington? I haven't spent five minutes in New York City without the company of a gendarme.
Look, I'll level with you  I need a little more time  I got to shift gears.
Are you having trouble raising the half million?
Hell no  my end is covered  my associates just feel we ought to wait for a more opportune time to make the switch.
It has to be by the end of this week.
Look, Mr. Charnier, you got to be reasonable.
It's your problem.
It's yours too!
Henri c'est gentil d'tre venu. Je vous prsente mon associ, Pierre Nicoli. Henri Devereaux.
Enchant. Alain, j'ai rflchi votre proposition et j'ai dcid d'accepter.
Did you pick up the car?
It is waiting for you in the garage.
Did they follow you?
I wasn't looking.
Henri... I need one more favor from you. I know I am imposing...
My friend, I am not sure about what is going on  but for me, I am finished.
Not quite  you are in it whether you like it or not. The police know you brought the car into the country. This makes you an accomplice.
Calm down  Henri! You must trust me  this is an extremely complicated situation to which there is a simple solution if you do exactly what I tell you. It's worth more money to you.
Goodbye.
What's your name, asshole?
Fuck you, Santa Claus!
I don't...
Ever pick your feet in Poughkeepsie?
What?
Did you ever pick your feet in Poughkeepsie?
I don't know what you're talkin' about.
Were you ever in Poughkeepsie?
No... yeah...
Did you ever sit on the edge of the bed, take off your socks and stick your fingers between your toes?
Man, I'm clean.
You made three sales to your roaches back there. We had to chase you through all this shit and you tell me you're clean?
Where are you?
Takin' care o' business, honey.
Takin' care o' business  it's after midnight.
You know I hadda meet some people tonight 
 Well finish all your meetin' people and get back here now  and bring a pizza with you.
Where'm I goinna get a pizza this time o' night?
Well try, okay?
I don't know where I'm gonna find a pizza joint open.
Sal 
Yeah?
Don't forget anchovies.
What about you? Can you stand a toss?
I'm clean.
You don't use shit?
No.
Did I say you could move that hand  I'm not gonna get stuck am I?
No  no.
Cause if I do.
How's everything?
Everything is everything.
How come there's nothing out there? That stuff is all milk.
There's nothing around. Nobody's holding.
I got a name  Sal Boca, Brooklyn.
Boca?
B.O.C.A.
Doesn't register.
Got a wife named Angie.
No, nothing. There's only some talk.
What?
Coming in this week, week after. Everybody going to get well.
Who brings it?
Who knows?
Where do you want it?
This side.
What's my name?
Doyle.
What?
Mr. Doyle.
Ever pick your feet in Poughkeepsie?
What?
I don't believe it. Getting paid to be the asshole you always were.
Fucking amazing, huh? Chevy Nova, you Bensonhurst shit! Still in Lala land. Look at us, two rock 'n' roll dicks. Unfortunately, only one of us is a detective.
Nice getting all those phone calls from you after you hit it big, you Redhook bastard.
I don't remember any Arbor Day cards from Mr. Rock 'n' Roll Detective.
Friendship's a lot different out here. A wrong number is a relationship. But then this isn't a social call.
How nice.
It's my daughter, man. I know I never told you about her, but God, I love that girl. She calls herself Zuzu Petals and she's been swallowed up by the gorgeous hell that is L.A. A fucking groupie partying with the pros. You have to get my baby back, she's my pride and 
'Bye, Johnny...
What?
So...
I don't take cases with foundations in bullshit. They are very hard to walk around in.
Just find her, man. She's my daughter, she's my sister, she's my mother, she's some little brat I stood in line with at Taco Bell last week. Do whatever you want with my words. And my money.
I am told it is difficult to pay the phone bill with gold chains and V.C.R.s. There's four thousand here.
Zuzu Petals. Sounds like a drug. A lethal one.
I hope you solve the case and I know you will, because you're the best. Ford, guys like you don't grow on trees.
You're that guy, the private eye.
You're a poet and didn't know it.
Do you really know everybody in the industry?
Only on a first name basis.
That's cute. You're funny.
That's funny, you're cute.
You heard that Bobby Vomit O.D.'d, right? Do you suspect foul play and stuff?
I'll tell you when somebody pays me to give a shit and stuff.
Hi, private eye guy!
Hey, the poet...
Hey, troops, here's that rock 'n' roll detective I told you about.
Hebedeebuh. Hebedeebuh. Maybe I did die in the explosion.
This isn't music!
It is to us! It's computerised.
How could Grendel Records sign such a wickprick? I guess Julian Grendel really is deaf as a fucking doorknob. I hear Ray Charles is going to head up the video division.
Actually that's rather an intriguing idea...
Good to meet you, Mr. Fairlane. Your mouth makes quite a reflection. I'm Julian Grendel.
Boing. You're one hell of a lip reader.
Why thank you. It's a Christmas present. That was my sense of humor, everyone. I wish you would fake a laugh. It's easy with a deaf person.
I knew your father. He was quite...
An asshole? A swine? A ballistic turd? Pick one. I never knew what a blessing my accident was until he died and I had to take over the company. You see the music is irrelevant in this industry. I'm going to have to ship this 'wickprick' platinum just so teenage girls can have a compact disc cover to get wet with.
Terrible thing, but good career move. His record sales have gone way up. I'll just have to create a new Black Vomit.
I was just discussing this whole Vomit thing with my friend Art Mooney. Do you know him?
Well, hello, Ford.
Mmmmmmm. Mmmm, mmm.
I must say you're an island of reality in an ocean of diarrhea.
So what did you think of the ballet? Was it like a warm Ice Capades?
Yeah, I did, you condescending fuck, but I miss Snoopy coming out at the end. Isn't your enjoyment impaired?
Don't worry I can run every ballet note for note in my brain...
Jazz, we're talking here.
Go on, another time, another place.
Uh, nice piano. Probably get a lot of complaints from the neighbors  heh... It's another time, Julian, another place. If I told you Bobby Vomit, Johnny Crunch, and Colleen Sutton were the ones you were complaining about, the ones who tried to rip you off, what would your reaction be?
Shock.
And if I told you that you already knew all that shit, and that you had them killed, what would you do then?
Golly, I'd probably faint.
Actually you're a bit off in the motivation department... I mean, revenge is so... Bronson. Wait, where's the third C.D.? How could you come here without proof? It's a three piece set here! A computer disc from Colleen, Bobby's computer disc, and Johnny's computer disc. Together they make, oh fucking forget it!
Yeah, yeah, I know the third one unscrambles the high bits and the low bits. Shit, just start torturing me, man. I didn't even know Johnny had a disc and I can't deal with any 'Don't play games with me, Mr. Fairlane' bullshit.
Don't play games... ugh. Did you say you don't have the third... ugh. I'm not going to torture <u>you</u>, Ford.
It doesn't have to be like this?
Oh God, please, <u>don't</u>!
<u>Okay</u>! Okay. You got me. Boy, you guys are tough. I have the third disc. Indeed. I. Do. Yes, sir. Yeah you assholes, it's in a very safe place with instructions to have it sent directly to the police if I don't make a phone call by seven o'clock. So if you'll excuse us...
It's 7:30. You really should get a watch.
Ah, I didn't say seven <u>P</u>.M., now did I?
I just gave up smoking. A last drink?
I'm running a little late. You see, I'm having a party at <u>THE</u> Club to introduce the new lead singer for Black Vomit. Everyone in the industry will be there, including our friend, Don Cleveland.
What about Don?
Before Black Vomit starts its set, Don will have his head blown off. The papers next week will reveal that he was partners with Bobby, Johnny, and Collie in 'the Grendel Records scam.' He killed them to pay off a debt to 'the mob' or something lame like that. And then the mob iced him. It's all more tasteful than it sounds.
Kill them. Not quickly.
Are you okay?
When I say 'no,' run for the door.
Oh, wait. One sec. Open the window.
Shit.
Ciao.
You'd said something about proof...
Oh please, Ford, I'll do any 
And may I suggest for dessert, the five copies I made...
Fuck me...
Maybe later, but first I want like to know why you'd steal from your own company...
When I was young, I read <u>Billboard</u> and I could not believe how much Grendel Records and how little of it my idiot father Old Jack Grendel got.
Yeah, it's pretty amazing how much cash you gotta give to the actual artists who create the music. Those ingrates really take a bite. But seriously, when Pops died, you got Vomit, Crunch, and Sutton to help finance a C.D. Cleans operation. You got greedy and they tried to get the three discs together to threaten you, but...
What is this, are you holding a microphone behind my head?
Man, Julian, that accident took away more than your hearing.
Accident? Accident! You naive pussball, when I realized my life of music could only be a life of music industry. I <u>cut my fucking</u> <u>ears off</u> so I'd only hear <u>my</u> music. Here, look.
I'm still the king!
Julian, you're fired.
Polo.
Whatever you're getting paid, I can give you twenty, maybe thirty bucks more.
Feel my thumb? I keep it there forty seconds more and a welt develops cutting off the oxygen to your brain. I leave. Twenty one minutes later, you're dead. The slowest, most painful minutes a person can experience.
I guess you never saw 'A Very Brady Christmas.'
Case closed, okay? Thirty seconds.
Fine!
What's fine?
I'm off it!
Off what? Twenty seconds...
The case!
Oh. One more thing. This is personal. I want you to tell me you're a big sissy.
<u>I. Am. The. Biggest. Sissy.</u> <u>In. The. Whole. Fucking. World</u>.
You were saying, snapperhead? I'll bet you're not smiling now!
Oh, but I am. Dianetics, Ford. You should try it.
Say cheese...
I want you to say that you're the biggest sissy in the whole wide world.
<u>I'm. The. Biggest. Sissy. In</u>. <u>The. Wide. World</u>.
Okay. 'Bye!
How's it going?
You gotta be kidding! This is unfuckingbelievable! I have to start the evening crawling down Capital Records, I shoulda chose suicide then, but oh no, the night was young! Next up, my guitar! The second most important thing I own and now it's toothpicks for the homeless on Hollywood Boulevard! Then, then, after I burned up your brother, Jazz... I should say as a fucking footnote I've usually treated women like shit  used corsages, the wet spot, you know giving out Domino's Pizza's phone number and saying it's mine... Tonight was different. I felt respect. I felt love. Then Jazz left me... and <u>now</u> I get to die!
The point?
Let me go out like a man.
Anyway you want it, asshole.
Nice tie, Lt. Anus, sir.
You think you're so hot just because you can get into any club. You think you're so hot, just because you have sex with great looking women. You think you're so hot just because you broke the Ensenada tape piracy ring...
You gotta admit those are all pretty great reasons...
Get the fuck out of here, honey... What do we got?
What are you running from?
Why shucks, Lt. Anus, you told me to get the fuck out of here...
If you're hiding something... oh, oh, I'll have so much fun.
Why do you hate me? It's gotta be more than Me Private You, You Cop.
Two words. Disco Express.
Disco Ex  man, that group sucked like a squid, they had some shitty single they wanted me to plug, back in my publicist days...
'Booty Time.'
Yeah, and that lead singer, Jesus, that white Van McCoy wannabe with the sixinch platform shoes. He looked...
Like me.
I was about to say he looked like shit, but hey, sure, he looked like you.
'It's booty time, it's booty time, across the U.S.A. It's booty time...'
You were the lead sing  Lieutenant, I didn't think anyone could cheer me up tonight... Thanks. Really.
Have a problem, call Ford Fairlane. He won't solve your case, but who cares, you'll be dead in a couple days anyway. Let's face it. After today, the California Raisins aren't gonna hire you.
That's okay. I'm quitting the music detective business to become a cop killer. Pay's the same, but it'll be much more fun.
God, I wish I could prove you killed everybody. Unfortunately, I know who the real killer is.
Really?
It's some psycho killer groupie. I got an anonymous letter that says she killed Bobby Vomit, Johnny Crunch, and now, this society dame.
Once I got an anonymous letter saying that the world would be destroyed by a giant purple raindrop. I didn't even buy a fucking umbrella... You were in too many discos during the seventies. The Village People rotted your brain.
That's the difference between a great investigator like me and a piece of Spam like you. You look at this picture and all you see is beauty. I see the beast.
Fairlane, you gonna find out who killed the lead singer of Black Vomit?
Tell me, Dr. Watson, what makes you think he's not just another piece of shit overdose.
Gut feeling.
I'll give you a gut feeling, you little... Hey... <u>hey</u>! Get that stick out of your mouth. These things are killers, man. Don't you go to school, listen to Smokey the Bear and all that...
When you going to let me work with you? Why you always fucking with me?
Why am I what? Excuse me? I catch you saying the Fword again. I'll kill you. That's a fucking promise. Now get the fuck out of here.
I got something serious to discuss.
Well what is it? I'm not Kreskin.
Forget it.
Ouch.
Hey, you, get off my cloud. I'm talking to my friend. 1962 Fender Stratocaster with original humbucking pickups, maple neck, strung upside down for a left handed motherfucking genius... Jimi Hendrix.
Who cares? I got a case.
Twelve pack?
This ain't no social call. One hundred bucks. To find my father.
Did he just say what I think he said?
I've got a clue. Look at my ring. Before my old lady ran off to Baja, she told me my dad had this same ring.
Holy Colonel Mustard. Gosh, you didn't mention the big clue... Kid, I can't take your money.
You need it.
I don't need it that bad.
I'm sorry...
Shut up, you dummy. Who did this to you?
These two guys in long cowboy coats and real nice suits. I think Armani. They were going through your stuff with screwdrivers and shit... I did what you would have done.
Run to the nearest phone and call the police.
Fuck that, I mean, the heck with that. I kicked their ass! Well, I tried. There were two of them you know...
Jesus, how could you be so stupid? Come on, we're going to a hospital.
I tried to help you...!
And hey, I appreciate it...
Where's my father? Have you even looked?
Yeah, uh, I got some pretty good leads...
Liar! You don't care! About anything.
So, did you find my dad?
Well, I got some good news and some bad news.
Yeah, go on...
Good news is that yeah, I found him. The bad news is...
It's me.
What kind of sentimental bullshit is this?
Hey, I love you, too, you little jerk. Jesus, guy tries to make a commitment and he's gotta eat shit.
Who's my real father, man?
He, he, lives in South America... he's doing that anthropologist archeologistdentist kind of thing ... he's real busy.
I need someone to help me with my case load, you interested? This whole father/son thing, if you're not into it, I mean, it's okay. You know what I'm saying?
Shut the heck up... Pop.
Zuzu Petals! Zuzu Petals! Yes! Who killed Bobby Vomit? Who killed Johnny Crunch? Why do people want you so goddamn bad?
I don't know. I'm so scared. Help me.
A simple 'please' would suffice...
Fluck you!
It's red, Ford.
What?
Hello?
Give me your gum and grab the wheel.
You okay?
Peachy.
Let's get serious...
Why are all these people after me?
Uh... wha? You're supposed to answer those questions, not ask 'em. I take it a woman named Colleen Sutton is not your big sister and that the late D.J. Johnny Crunch ain't your daddy?
I'm so sure! I'm an only child and my parents are Bill and Shirley Petals of South Bend, Indiana. They run a hardware store and...
You hung out with Bobby Vomit. Who would want him dead?
I dunno. He was to sound what Cezanne was to image or at least I thought so. Ever since he died, I've been chased... <u>Omigod</u>!
What? Jesus, tell me!
It's Spunk Lewis, the lead singer for Dead Ribbit! Mr. Bus Driver, stop!
Spunk, come back...
How is it you can look at that HairHead and see God, when all I see is a lucky asshole from Reseda.
Because I know rocknroll.
You know rocknroll? Darlin', I've been in the music industry for as long as you've lived. I've seen things you can't even have nightmares about... but then I guess I'm just not equipped to know the industry the way you do...
Come again? B.FL.D., I have sex with rock stars; it's not like I'm doing something that I don't enjoy with them, like shuffleboard. Don't worry about me, I practice safe sex and next summer, I'm going to U.C.L.A.
Zuzu Petals, you're not bad. In fact, I was discussing this whole rocknroll thing with my pal Art Mooney the other day. You know him?
No. Who's Art Mooney?
He's the lamest clue I've ever had in my life. Here's our stop...
Yeah, it's weird. Bobby and Johnny were such good friends...
Friends? You didn't tell me that.
You didn't ask. Have you ever thought about mousse?
Why are you depressed? You get in all the clubs, you never pay cover...
Stop. We still got serious detective stuff to do, but we've been up all night so we should hit the sack for...
What a perv...
Let's watch some 'M.T.V.'
People still watch that?
Who cares about people?
Zuzu, wake up...
Hah fluck, great video, huh?
Are you okay?
Okay? I just blew up. I feel orgasmic.
My axe!
Ford, do you got something cooking in the microwave?
I know the feeling. This must be hell. Can you believe, a flucking sorority... I'm gonna vomit DayGlo.
Yeah. Sure.
This is boring, guys.
Zuzu, be quiet. Put in Colleen's disc. Number two.
Ford, you were right!
Yeah.
I'm afraid so, you want her?
But you know, that was just a dream. Doesn't really count.
Nice left you got there, jerk.
Sorry, it was dark, now come on.
This way...
No, wait...
Suck a dick, I left my purse...
As Clark Gable said to Ava Gardner in Mogambo: 'Fuck the purse, we're gonna dieee.'
Realityrealityreality  Outrageous building, huh?
Yeah.
Pretty smooth, huh?
Smooth. I know this is dangerous and everything but it's kind of fun. Ever see "Batman," you know when Batman and Robin are climbing up the side of the building and somebody sticks their head outside the window and says... I forget what they said but it's pretty funny.
Why have you come to my planet?
Ick.
I won't ask why you would want to help someone trying to kill you, but hey, good job. Shall we?
Hey. God. You're an asshole.
Let go of the belt! What are you doing? You got mad at me for trying to save the other guy.
I can't kill this kid's father...
Who do you think you are, Ford? The tooth fairy. Kill! Kill! Kill!
This is fucking unbelievable. Zuzu, it's a long story, you see...
Hello, Mr. Tongue! What a perv.
You wish. Come on, let's get outta here.
Are you okay?
There's that question...
Oh how sweet, your friend's got his own star.
ArtArtArtArtMooneyMooneyMooney Mooney.
Youseeitallstartswiththis factoryinVancouverand there's theseC.D.s...
I'll mail you a letter, come on!
Hoh graphic! I'm going to dream of ears for a year! Ugh!
Just be thankful he wasn't dissatisfied with his sex life.
So, Zuzu. Are you okay?
Yeah, Ford. I'm okay.
Got those Vomit invites here...
Scalping to a funeral, you're a pretty sleazy guy.
Thanks. You interested. It's festival seating, so...
How much?
Three hundred.
You gave it to the girls for one.
Hey, they blew me.
Oh. Three hundred coming right up.
Your tip paid off. Jazz, this is Sam the Sleazebag. Sam the Sleazebag, this is Jazz, my secretary.
Assistant. And don't call me Jazz.
All your friends call you Jazz.
Exactly.
You wish.
Cash or check, Jazz? Don't do this to me.
I do it for love.
'Bye Ford...' Hey, let me cheer you up. I found the IN X S payment.
G'day, they say it's worth three grand...
Fucking Australians! I hate that country, continent, what is it? Don't we do nuclear testing there?
Let's just declare war on the hellhole. Before they make <u>Crocodile Dundee</u> three.
Rock stars! I'm going out of my mind. All I get are perks. I don't make money, I make gifts. How am I supposed to pay taxes with bathtub compact disc players and autographed drumsticks. I want cash. Moulah. Wampum. Dead Presidents. Andrew Jackson. Gerald Ford.
You're saying you need money.
Car insurance costs money. Cavities cost money. Doritos cost money. I'm gonna eat that damn bear... come here!
Quit crying. I think we've got a case if we can make it through the cavalcade of bimbos, here...
You're friends with the most obnoxious asshole on the airwaves. The King of the Shock Jocks. I'm, I'm shocked.
I love you, too, baby. He wants to meet at six. What time is it now?
That's for me... Radio contests, really Ford, how tacky...
Ah  ha... You know, you should think about dating Earthmen again.
So what about this watch?
Keep it. It's your paycheck this month.
Quiet. Tell me you tapped in the police computer and found out lots of good stuff about Art Mooney...
I found a lot of Art Mooneys. None with a police record, though. Not even Synchronicity. Have you checked out Johnny Pinzolo/Crunch's houseboat yet?
Tonight after I see Don. Some Beverly Hillbilly just hired me to find youknowfuckingwho. Name's Colleen Sutton.
Spooky. I'll process her.
Cool. Jazz, meet me at the Dorothy Chandler Pavilion tonight. I'll have a ticket for you at the door. Some concert. Could be interesting. Dress nice.
Sorry, Jazz. After this, I'll throw a burger down your throat, okay?
You're a fucking gentleman. What do you want from me?
This Colleen Sutton woman I'm with. If she flees me to go powder her whatever, I need you to keep tabs...
You going to be okay?
Go on, 'they're stahting.'
And it's good to see you, Julian. This is my assistant, Jazz.
Mmmmmmm. Mmmm, mmm.
Why did you interrupt? Maxwell seemed like he wanted to hire me.
Shut up, goodies from the ice queen.
How'd you get this from her?
You don't want to know, believe me. But don't worry, I washed my hands...
A fucking C.D. Wow, this case is closed. So, she's got bad taste in music and in men... Did I tell you she and Johnny were lovers and that they were into something and he got killed for it?
No, as a matter of fact you didn't. What about the girl, Zuzu Petals, how does she fit in? I mean, she is what this case is about.
I wish I knew. You did good work...
Make eye contact when you say that.
I'm sorry, that dress. What do you say we...
Celebrate? Like we celebrated after solving the White Bluesman murders? Forget it, man.
What did you... Hey, where's your spex?
Contacts.
I like.
I don't know, what was the case?
Ms. Sutton hired you to find the girl. Period.
Then I guess her case is closed. Mine isn't. I want to know why everybody wants Zuzu. Why people are killing and dying for her.
She's just a bundle of energy, a real treasure...
Yeah, let's bury her.
Hello... It's Colleen. With answers. She wants to meet. Down. Way downtown. Late.
You okay?
Lieutenant Anus has discovered the coldblooded killer behind everything.
Who?
Ah, an obvious choice.
Let's get her out of here, before she starts a shootout. Drop us at my place.
Hello, Ford...
What are you doing at the office? You wouldn't believe what I've gone through tonight... I'm calling from the Mega Beta Pogo Sorority.
I came to warn you...
Oh, Jazz, those bastards... call an ambulance! Get that music off!
I believe the last time we came across one of these, was at the ballet. What were your words... 'A fucking C.D. This case is closed.'
I've always said the one reason I'm the best detective in the industry is that I'm the only one... but hey, I never throw away a clue...
Aha, just what I suspected!
You're not funny.
Hmmm, the first disc was putting out an incomprehensible stream of high bits. This one is putting out low bits. The data is in some fucked binary system. The two discs need to interface simultaneously with a third decryptor disc. Comprendo?
Suure. Two people hired me to find Zuzu in order to get hold of one of those discs and Colleen threw a tizz when we took hers. Obviously, all this binary disc shit is pretty mighty. But it's not necessary. People are dead. One was a friend. The same people were involved in a scam to rip off Grendel Records. Bottom line's Julian Grendel is doing a little revenge number...
Your timing swallows the massive one. Grendel just tried to kill us, he's about to frame and kiss Don, and we can't do shit. Don't even ask about those discs. Goddamn that Art Mooney with a star by his name! It's tied to Johnny's C.D., I know.
Johnny's C.D.?
What an interface!
Seems to be information about a factory in Vancouver.
Yeah, Colleen mentioned it. What do they make?
C.D.s. The music kind. From the Grendel label.
Without Grendel knowing about it. BINGO and Bingo was his nameO. Counterfeit C.D.s. Tape piracy has graduated to disc piracy, the sound quality's better, and so's the money.
But the funny thing is, take a look at these Swiss bank account numbers. We got Bobby, Johnny, Colleen... and Julian Grendel.
After their initial investment in the factory, Grendel didn't need them. Told them to fuck off. They tried to get these C.D.s together in order to have proof of Grendel's involvement, so they could keep him in line. Now's the fun part...
I can't believe I lost an eye for a bunch of phony C.D.s
I just can't deal with all this crap between us, I'm sorry. I'm quitting.
Let's get hitched. I guess I, you know, love you. It's a beautiful thing.
Wha 
So many assholes, so few bullets.
Damn, Ford, you're the most cynical man in the industry and that's not easy.
I'm not cynical. Can I help it that life is a disease and everyone's a victim. So you're producing exclusively for Grendel Records now. Hope you're taking Julian for a bundle.
Man, ever since old Jack Grendel died, Julian has got me into one yummy gig after the other. Not only am I producing, he's got me in some lovelybullshitmoneymoney executive position. What are you looking at...
You gotta shave before you leave the house in a dress like that and I don't mean your legs. Why didn't you jump on her? What's happening to you?
I guess I'm not interested in any club who'll have my member as a member. Later, Don...
I haven't seen her around, and as for who would want to kill Johnny Crunch, line forms to the left. You'd find less people on our planet who wanted him alive.
Great pipes.
I've heard cars fuck with more harmony.
Tell me about it. Name's Kyle Troy. Can't we bring up the bass.
Julian's happy as long as he doesn't see glass shatter.
I never thought I'd be jealous of your handicap... Sorry to hear about Bobby Vomit.
Have a copy of that sent to me, will ya?
Right away!
Hey, Don, how's the high blood pressure.
Could somebody tell me what's going on? <u>Like sloowly</u>...
Thanks for the promotion, man.
No prob...
Ford Fairlane, I'm Colleen Sutton and I need your help. I have a problem and it pertains to the music industry. What is it they call you? Mr. Rock and...
Don't say it. Orange juice?
Please.
Sorry about the glass. And the house. And the breath.
Mr. Fairlane, I'm very rich. The kind of rich that warps minds. Nothing offends me. When I was eleven, I walked in on my father and the Shetland pony he had given me for my tenth birthday. Does that excite you?
I don't know, I never met your father.
Oh, that! Don't take it personally. He always wakes up before I do. Down boy! Roseanne Barr naked!
Who's your decorator?
Some fag. Charged me up the ass.
Fag? Ass? I'm sorry, is that a joke?
Poor taste. I know. Listen, I respect homosexuals. When I was young, my maid was a homosexual. My maid was a homosexual.
I don't have a sense of humor, either. Sorry.
Now that we've broken the ice...
I need you to find my little sister. She goes by the name Zuzu...
Zuzu Petals. You want me to rescue her from the gorgeous hell that is L.A.
But how did you know? Here, take this picture...
No thanks. I carry my own.
Excuse me?
Let's see, you're her worried sister. Yesterday I met her worried father who incidentally was about five years younger than you. In fact, I capped off the evening by watching him get electrocuted. They talk about cases like this in the private eye handbook... something about a tenfoot pole.
Five thousand should be enough to assuage any qualms you have about my family tree.
Yeah, but of course for now, I only get a twenty.
Actually, you may take it all now.
Oh... I have some questions.
I have no answers. Thanks for the stain. Find the girl. In the envelope are tickets to the Dorothy Chandler. We'll chat again, then.
Ah, the Dorothy Chandler. I was just there with my good friend Art Mooney the other night...
Who?
Nuthin'.
My God, Mr. Fairlane, you look like the Fall of Saigon.
Colleen and Johnny, sitting in a tree, kissing...
Uh, let's go sit down.
So you know about Johnny Crunch and myself.
I'm sorry, that's gotta be a pair of tube socks he has down there.
Ouch... Of course I want off the case. Some monster from Woodstock tried and succeeded in killing me tonight. The fact I'm alive's a technicality.
So you...
Listen, Queen Collie, I have a code. I never, ever, drop a case. Besides, I, uh, used all your money to pay my bills, so I kinda owe you.
Nonsense. After what you've been through, it sounds like I owe you.
They did one of these about my ex wife. It's called 'The Nutcracker.' 'The Nutcracker'... I don't need money. I need some questions answered.
I'll do my best.
Question one: Can I have some money? Kidding. Why didn't you tell me about you and Johnny? You two were into something even more dangerous than sex, weren't you? Who? What? Where? How? Now.
Jonathan was such a beautiful man. No one knew him like I did... Excuse me. I can't do this now. I'll call you tomorrow.
Thanks for the information. Appreciate it.
I ask you to find a girl and instead you steal a C.D. from me. Ford. You suck.
I'll buy you a new one. I found her.
Zuzu Petals! Did she have it?
Have what?
Did she tell you anything?
Lots of things. Her favorite yogurt. The ten drummers she would take to a desert island...
Drink your cappucino, you're giving me a headache...
Damnit... you were right last night. Jonathan and I were into more than sex. Along with Bobby Vomit, right after old Jack Grendel died, we took part in a scheme to rip off Grendel records... I didn't want you involved...
But I am...
What cheap shit... hey, waiter!
We invested in these factories. In Vancouver.
Hold that thought. Are we being shot at?
That was close...
What did these Vancouver factories do?
Art Moooney!
Thanks, I needed that.
But I ain't got you...
But I ain't got you...
No, I ain't got you...
No, I ain't got you...
I said, I ain't got you...
I said, I ain't got you...
I ain't  got  you.
Yes?
Mrs. Stanwyk, I hate to disturb you. Tom Underhill here... I'm a new member.
Apparently, someone of your acquaintance has charged the most extraordinary lunch to my bill.
John!
You don't know the Underhills?
I'd appreciate an opportunity to discuss this with you.
I just stepped out of the shower! Can you give me a minute?
Of course.
Mrs. Stanwyk!
In a minute!
Oh, Margie, sorry, Frieda lost the number of Alan's realtor in Provo. Can you give it to me real quick?
Jim Swarthout?
Yeah.
And, I'm sorry, who are you again?
Frieda's boss.
Who's Frieda?
My secretary.
Fletch.
Frank, you look a little peaked. Wanna vomit?
No, I want an answer, Is the story done?
Uh, almost.
'Uh, almost' is not an answer. 'Yes Frank, it's all done': that's an answer.
And a damn fine one, I might add.
Two...
Irwin...
Oh, I hate it when he calls me that.
Irwin, professional journalism time, now. Go back to the goddamn beach and finish the goddamn story!
I will, Frank, I will. Something came up, okay?
No it's not okay. You have to have this in by tomorrow. Did you see the ad we ran Sunday?
I never read the paper.
...never reads the paper...
What's the spread on the game tonight?
I don't know. Look!
Looks great.
Now, Irwin, try to follow me. You can't run the ad and then not run the story.
Why not? Oh shit... really?
Just kidding, Frank. You'll have the story and you'll be damn proud of it.
You broke it? You know the source?
Practically.
What's 'practically'? Is it Fat Sam? You said you had pictures of him....
I have pictures of him. Dealing...
So let's go! We run the pictures.
He's not the story! There's a source behind him.
Who?
Well, there we're in a gray area.
How gray?
I'd say charcoal.
I'm going to bite out your eyeballs, you know that?
Frank, you animal, I love it. I'll have the story by Thursday night, I swear to God. I hope.
Gummy and two cops...
Cool your tool, Frank, I need a little more time. I think I'm really on to something here.
You're onto something. That's good. What?
I really don't want to spoil your surprise, Frank. Why don't you read it tomorrow?
Just give me a hint, all right?
All right. Maybe there are some crooked cops involved in all this.
More cops. I think I gotta go to Utah, Frank.
Utah?
Yeah. It's wedged in between Wyoming and Nevada. I'm sure you've seen pictures.
What about finding the source?
I have some ideas.
Who? Donnie and Marie?
Very possibly. Come on, say yes. I'll buy you a shirt.
Go to transportation, get a ticket.
How could you call him?
It's called journalism, Fletch. It's called getting both sides of the story. Something you apparently don't know anything about.
It's also called getting me this close to being murdered.
Get out of here.
He threw me in a cell, took a gun and a knife and threatened to kill me right there if I didn't promise to give up the story.
You know, I've had it up to here with your bullshit. I need a story from you by tomorrow.
You'll have it.
But not unsubstantiated charges about dopedealing cops, and not horse shit paranoid fantasies about homicidal police chiefs.
Thanks for the vote of confidence, Frank.
I want something I can print!
Print this Frank.
I'm quitting, Frank. As of midnight tonight.
What? Who the hell are they?
This is Fat Sam, and this is Gummy.
What...
Their statements, naming Chief Cummings as the numero uno drug pusher from here to Oxnard. I want them to have federal protection under the paper's sponsorship.
I'm out, Frank. You lost faith in me.
Fletch, I got nervous. Please....
Forget it.
Fletch, you want an apology?
You were going to can me, right?
Not really.
Not really?
I was upset.
I'm sick of this place. I'm going to try out for the Lakers. They need a power forward.
Fletch.
Excuse me. I have something I'd like to discuss with you.
What?
The door was unlocked.
Lock's busted.
No wonder.
I work for the landlord. He told me to watch out for the place.
I commend him on his choice.
What?
I commend him on his choice
I was supposed to meet Mrs. Cavanaugh.
Who are you?
Don Corleone. I'm a cousin of Mrs. Cavanaugh's.
Where is she?
Moved out.
She moved out?
I spoke to her last week. She didn't say anything.
She moved out.
So you're saying she moved out.
This morning.
This morning? Christ. We had so much to talk about. Moe Green is out of the Tropicana, and my sons, Michael and Fredo, are taking over.
What did you want under the bed?
Mattress police. There are no tags on the mattress. I'm going to have to take you downtown. Please give me your weapon.
I'm calling the cops. This is for the cops.
I'm her cousin.
Tell the cops.
Go ahead. Call them. Better tie your shoelaces first.
Excuse me sir. Are you a guest of the club?
Yes, I'm with the Underhills.
They just left, sir.
They'll be back. He had to go in for a urinalysis.
Would you care for a drink while you're waiting? I can put it on the Underhill bill.
Great. I'll have a Bloody Mary and a steak sandwich.
Very good sir.
Hi, where's Mrs. Stanwyk?
In her cabana, sir.
Oh, that's right. She told me to meet her there. That's cabana six?
Cabana one.
One.
Would you be caring for something to eat or drink, sir?
I would, actually.
Charged to the Underhills, sir?
Right. Tell you what  have you caviar?
Yes, sir. Beluga. But it is eighty dollars the portion.
I'd better only get two. How about the lobster thermidor?
I recommend it.
Fine. And a couple of bottles of Dom Perignon. To cabana one.
Very good, sir.
You want I set up?
No thanks, I'll do it. Give yourself twenty dollars. Underhill.
Muchas gracias.
Sierra del fuego.
Your call is come through.
Far out. Larry? It's Fletch. Well, it's not 'Fat Sam's', but... any port in a storm. Oh, tell Frank I need a couple of months. The fifty grand's lasting longer than I thought.
I haven't seen you since the wedding, Jeez, you look great.
I do? Oh, isn't that sweet, thank you. I have to confess something to you. I must have been pretty plowed at your wedding. I really don't have the faintest idea who you are.
Huh? No, not my wedding. Yours.
Oh, mine! Thank God. Actually, that doesn't make it any better, does it? Are you a friend of Alan's?
We used to fly together. I'm... John.
John! You used to fly together!
John who?
John Ultrarelamensky.
Oh, I'm sorry. It's a beautiful name, really.
It's ScotchRumanian.
That's a strange combination.
So were my parents.
Mind if I keep practicing? I need to work on my ground stroke a little.
Please.
Damn, I thought I had that one.
You should play with much larger tennis balls. So how's Alan?
What are you asking me for? He's so busy lately I hardly see him. And he's been so preoccupied.
Preoccupied with what?
Oh, personal stuff. Look! I hit one!
Why do you keep doing this?
I love the outfits.
Stay! I must be having an off day. I'm really a fabulous player.
I have this effect on lots of women.
I bet you do.
Say, the reason I asked about Alan is that I bumped into him this morning and you know what I can't figure out?
Alan's in Utah.
I can't figure out why I went to Utah for the morning.
Okay. I'm delighted to have someone to talk to, and you're very cute, so I'm very flattered, but I'm also very married so you may as well forget  You are trying to hit on me, aren't you?
I'm such a heel. How'd you guess?
If I had a nickel for every one of Alan's flyboy buddies who tried to pick me up, I'd be a rich woman.
You are a rich woman.
See what I mean?
What's he doing in Utah?
None of your business, now go away. You're throwing my game off.
Who is it?
It's John. John... Znhcneelsky.
John Ultramalensky?
Hi.
Hi.
I was hoping you'd say that.
Uh... I'm just out of the shower.
Can I borrow your towel for a minute?
I'm sorry, I'm just surprised to see you. I didn't think... What do you want?
I ordered lunch.
You ordered it here?
Well, I knew this is where my mouth would be.
Down boy.
I really should change.
No, I think you should stay the same wonderful person you are today.
I mean put clothes on.
Here, take mine.
Have you gotten cuter since I last saw you?
Yes.
Lunch...
God...
All this goes on Underhill's bill?
I saved his life during the war.
You were in the war?
No. He was. I got him out.
'I've been so many places in my life and times. I've sung a lot of songs, I've made some bad rhymes...'
It's amazing.
'I've acted out my life on stages, with ten thousand people watching...'
Your bone structure, shoulders, neck...
'But we're alone now, and I'm singing this song for you.'
Just like Alan. It's freaky.
Can I ask you a question?
Depends on the question.
Are you still in love with Alan?
No. I mean, 'no you can't ask me that.' I mean, ask me something else.
Why'd you let me in?
Because I'm bored. Oh, that sounds terrible, doesn't it. I'm sorry. If it makes you feel any better, I also let you in because I'm hungry.
Thanks, I feel much better. Listen, if you're so bored, why didn't you go to Utah with Alan?
Utah is not exactly a cure for boredom.
Good point.
Oh, listen to me. I've never even been there and look what I say about it. Anyway, I know there'd be nothing for me to do. I don't even know anybody there.
What about his parents?
He never sees them and I never met them.
How come?
Thanks for the great time.
What is this?
Long story.
I'll be leaving now, Mrs. Stanwyk.
I think you should call me Gail, now.
Gail. I hope this won't embarrass you in any way. I think Underhill's a yutz, you won't have any trouble with him.
Why did you do it?
A four hundred dollar lunch tab!
Yeah.
I'll cover it. You have any other surprises?
Yeah. My name's not John Ultramalensky and I wasn't at your wedding.
Who.
Irwin Fletcher. I write a newspaper column under the name Jane Doe.
So?
So, your husband hired me to kill him. That's the truth.
What are you talking about?
That's what I want to know.
He told me he was dying of cancer. Not True. That ranch you thought you were paying for in Utah? Not true.
How do you know about that?
He's a bad guy, Mrs. Stanwyk. Gail. I think he's involved in something very big and very bad.
What does all this mean?
Have you ever heard the name Jim Swarthout?
Swarthout. Yes. He's the man who sold us the ranch in 
Wrong. He sold you $3,000 worth of scrub brush.
But I've seen the deed.
You saw a forgery.
Here's this dog that tried to eat me. Here's my motel. Here's the car I rented...
Stop it. Are you saying my husband is defrauding me?
I don't know. All I know is that he told me a lot of things and so far not one of them has been true.
No. You can't. Look, I know you don't know me from Adam, but you've got to trust me.
Trust you? I may seem a little goofy at times, but I'm not a complete Bozo, you know.
Just give me twentyfour hours. Please. Someone almost killed me today. People are not being nice lately, and I don't want you getting hurt. I think you're terrific. Are you a Laker fan?
No... I've got to go to Mr. Underhill...
I'll take you to a game.
What are you talking about?
I'm talking about how much I'd like to take you to a Laker game.
Wait a second. What am I supposed to do for twentyfour hours?
Act natural.
I was afraid you'd say that.
If you need me, call the paper. Hand me that extra bottle okay?
What's wrong, Gail?
I decided I was going to tell my husband about you today.
No.
But first I called the Hall of Records in Provo. They checked on the deed. You're telling the truth. A minute later Alan came in the room and asked me why I was shaking.
I've never lied to him before. It's the first time he's ever lied to me. He was just as convincing as when he says 'I love you.'
I think you better sit down.
Oh God, I hate things that start like that....
Gail, please.
What is this....
I checked. There was no divorce.
Are you telling me my husband is a bigamist???
I'm telling you he's not your husband at all.
And they're leaving the country tomorrow night.
Bastard.
I don't have all the pieces yet, but I'm close. I'll know tomorrow.
I'm calling the police. Right now.
You can't do that.
Don't tell me I can't 
They're trying to kill me!
I'm terrified.
Come here.
Don't worry, I can take it.
You shouldn't be here.
I want to hear this.
I thought you had this all figured out. Good going 'Irwin.'
Don't ever call me 'Irwin,' okay?
Cute young thing, too.
I'm sorry?
His bride. Cute as a button.
You've met her?
Of course, his wife's name is Sally Ann Cavanaugh?
Cute thing.
Do you happen to have a picture of Alan and his wife?
Oh, we've got lots of pictures. Let me show you some.
She's cute as a button.
How long have they been married?
Oh, that's all right, I've got lots more. Want to see the reception?
No, thank you.
How about Marvin's sixtyfifth birthday party?
Yo!
Can I steal you for a minute?
Only if you promise not to return me.
Deal.
'Magic' today, huh?
Kareem's in the wash. I need a favor.
Shoot.
Don't say shoot, okay.
Did you hear something?
Not me.
Me neither. See what we've got on a guy named Alan Stanwyk, okay? I need it right away.
WYK no 'c.' I'll be down in a minute.
No problem, boss.
'Mr. Stanwyk, of Provo, Utah, is a former commercial pilot.'
Married Boyd Aviation. He's no dummy, that's serious coin.
'Stanwyk's parents, Marvin and Velma Stanwyk, also of Provo, were unable to attend the wedding.'
Not our kind of people, you understand.
Spot right here.
Thanks.
You doing a story on this guy?
Maybe.
'...Stanwyk, blahblahblah, with internist Doctor Joseph Dolen.'
I wonder if that's his doctor.
Only one way to find out.
Nothing on Gail Stanwyk, nothing on Jim Swarthout. But I did 
That's okay, Lar. I gotta put this on the back burner for a while.
Did you say cops?
Yeah.
That's one thing I did find. It's from last month, so it was in the unsorted pile.
My hero.
Nothing to it.
I overheard it. He thinks you're completely out of control, he said he was gonna can you as soon as he got the story. If I were you, I'd just chuck it, Fletch. Screw him. Let him eat three full pages on Sunday.
You kidding? I got an unbelievable story here, Lar. Unbelievable. Jesus. It's the cops, I know it. The Chief! And they're all over Frank.
I just thought... sure. Sally Ann Cavanaugh.
Check every hotel in L.A. Start with the ones near the airport. Yeah. He's about to leave the country with her. Thanks, Lar.
We can't talk about it here.
Why not?
Because we can't.
Are you on a scavenger hunt of some kind?
I want you to come to my house. Then we'll talk.
I think you've got the wrong gal, fella.
I'll give you a thousand dollars cash just to come to my house and listen to the proposition. If you reject the proposition, you keep the thousand, and your mouth shut.
Will this proposition entail my dressing up as Tina Turner?
It is nothing of a sexual nature I assure you. One thousand, just to listen. I don't see how you could turn that down Mr...
Nugent. Ted Nugent.
Alan Stanwyk.
Charmed.
Then I found out Hopalong Cassidy had shot himself in the game room. That just blew it for me.
Who?
Hopalong Cassidy. Killed himself here. Bow and arrow. Strange.
I don't work for you yet, assface. Don't talk to me like that.
Come inside.
Here's my proposition, Mr. Nugent.
I'm all ears.
I want you to murder me.
You don't look sick, Mr. Stanwyk.
I don't feel sick. Not yet. They tell me it'll start getting bad in about a month. After that... well, I'd rather not be around for it.
Why don't you try suicide?
My company has taken out a very large insurance policy on me. And I have a wife. Suicide would nullify my insurance. Murder does not.
So why pick me?
You're a drifter, a  pardon the expression  beach bum. No one would notice if you disappeared. I've watched you for a couple weeks.
Maybe I'm just on vacation.
Not with the scum you hang out with. I've watched. I've thought. Its a perfect scheme. I even have a perfect escape plan for you.
Did it ever occur to you that I might not want to kill you?
I've got fifty thousand dollars says you will.
I'm still here.
I want it done Thursday evening, around eight PM. My wife will be off to the club for a committee meeting. It's the staff's night off. These will be open.
Wouldn't they normally be locked?
Sometimes yes, sometimes no. The staff usually forgets.
I have the same problem with my help.
I will be here in the room, waiting for you. The safe will be open and there will be fifty thousand dollars in it. You will be wearing rubber gloves. Do you own rubber gloves?
I rent them. Monthly lease, with an option to buy.
In this drawer....
A .357.
Very good. My .357. Use it and no one can trace it to you. The room will be in some disarray.
So it looks like a burglary attempt. You catch me. I get the gun, and shoot you.
Precisely. Are you a good shot?
What's the difference? The noise'll kill you first.
Get me on the first shot, if you can.
I don't think you'll have to worry about that.
Do you have a passport?
Sure, all drifters do.
Fine. After you kill me, take the Jaguar. The keys will be in the glove compartment.
Take it where?
LAX. Go to the Pan Am desk. There will be a ticket waiting for you.
Where am I going?
Rio. Flight 306. Departs at eleven PM.
They serve dinner on the flight?
It'll be a first classticket. I'm sure you'll enjoy the ride. I would recommend staying down there at least a year, Mr. Nugent.
You've certainly thought this out, haven't you?
I am not someone who leaves a great deal to chance, Mr. Nugent.
You sure those doors will be open?
Yes. All you provide are the gloves, the passport, and the aim. I'll take care of everything else.
The gun, the money, the tickets, and the dying.
That's right.
You sure got the hard part.
What do you say, Mr. Nugent? You'll be doing me and my family a great service.
Will you kill me?
Sure.
Hi Sam. Hi Fletch.
Hi Gummy. Hows the eye?
Its okay. The cops did it.
I know.
They busted me last week.
They bust you every week.
I know. I got bad luck or something.
I'm the Sufi.
Fletch?
Don't call me Fletch. Don't look at me. Lie back down. We'll talk.
What?
Cops are here. I can smell them. They're after me. Lie down, Gum.
Why are they after you?
Because I'm a newspaper reporter and I'm nailing Chief Cummings as the source for drugs on the beach. You're in big trouble, Gummy.
Fat Sam is turning state's evidence.
What's that?
He wrote me a nice deposition. He says he just received the drugs. You did the selling.
I didn't sell nothing! I didn't sell nothing! I just carried the drugs from the Chief to Sam.
Sure you did.
Fletch, I never sold nothing.
Twenty years.
Where does the Chief get the drugs?
I dunno. Somewhere in South America, I forget.
Rio de Janeiro, maybe?
Maybe, Fletch. Is that Brazil?
That's Brazil.
Yeah. Maybe.
Wait here for me, Gummy.
I'm calling the police. Then I'm leaving. You wait here for them.
Where are you going?
Away. I think it might take you a while to get your life back together. You don't need me around. Don't go back in there.
I really creamed the sonofabitch, didn't I?
You sure did.
John Ultramalensky, right?
Right.
God, I haven't seen you since the wedding.
Gee, I must have been shitfaced at your wedding, I don't 
Not mine, stupid. Yours.
What are you doing here?
I couldn't sit home and play the mournful widow anymore, and the police didn't need me, so I tried watching a Lakers game on TV, but the announcer talked to fast and I couldn't understand a lot of what was happening, so I figured if I came down here maybe you could explain the rules to me, and besides, I missed you.
No problem.
I'm Harry S. Truman from Casewell Insurance Underwriters.
Harry S. Truman?
My parents were great fans of the former President.
Isn't that nice. Good man. Showed the Japs a thing or two.
Sure did. Dropped the big one on them.
Dropped two big ones. Real fighter. You're in the insurance line, Harry?
Right.
Well, I'm fully covered.
I don't doubt it, Mr. Stanwyk. Actually, my company is the sub insurer of the subsidiary carriers of a policy held by Alan Stanwyk, who I believe is your son.
Yes. Where you from, Harry?
California. San Berdoo. Utah's part of my route. Can I ask you a few questions?
Come on in.
Regulations, Mr. Stanwyk. And you and your wife, named....
Velma.
Velma. You and Velma are the parents of Alan Stanwyk, Beverly Hills, California, executive vice president of Boyd Aviation?
Check.
Okay. Now, the last time you saw your son was when?
Oh, about ten days ago.
Ten days ago?
That's right. Alan comes by every three weeks or so.
Isn't that nice. Since when?
Since he moved to L.A.
Forgive me now for seeming personal, but we understand that there is a lady friend he sees here in Provo.
What the hell does this have to do with insurance?
Trust me, sir. It's a comprehensive policy.
Well, you can forget about that lady friend business, Alan's the most loyal husband a girl could have. He dotes on that bride of his.
Has he?
Boy, what the hell's the matter with you?
Then he has.
Course he has. That's his wife.
He sighs.
And they're still married... Alan and Sally Ann.
Of course they are.
Lets see, it was before he moved to L.A... four years April.
Mrs. Stanwyk, may I borrow this picture. I promise to send it back to you. It's routine, really. The actuarial people need to 
Good evening.
I like your outfit. You got the fifty grand and the plane ticket?
Of course.
Why don't you check it out for yourself, Mr. Nugent?
Because I trust you, Alan. By the way, the name's Fletcher. I.M. Fletcher. I write a newspaper column under the name Jane Doe.
What?
Read this, please.
Wait a second 
Cut the crap and read it.
He is lifting Stanwyk's two attach cases.
Pretty hefty. Keep reading.
'...with his legal wife, the former Sally Ann Cavanaugh.'
He doesn't read my stuff well. 'Sally Ann and Alan were married four years ago and never divorced, making Stanwyk a bigamist even in Utah. Stanwyk is also traveling with three million dollars in cash, the result of Gail Stanwyk's conversion of Boyd Aviation stock. Mrs. Stanwyk believed the money was to be used to purchase property in Utah, but it wasn't; a fact that can be confirmed by realtor James Swarthout of Provo.' That was stupid, Alan.
I'd have been long gone.
Ahem. 'Sally Ann can confirm all this when the police pick her up at the Airport Marriott.'
Bravo, Mr. Fletcher.
The thing that really tipped it off for me was something your wife said to me while we were in bed together.
And what was that?
How similar in build you and I are. Then I figured it. You bump me off, throw me in the car, and burn me up.
I was already prepared to commit one murder. What makes you think I won't commit two?
Whoops.
Refusal to pay alimony is a jailable offense, Fletch.
What about breaking and entering? Are you wearing anything under that?
I did not break nor enter. I simply chose an advisable location to await my client's delinquent husband.
I hate to conduct business on the lanai. Why don't we step inside.
You owe Wendy nine hundred and eighteen dollars.
She doesn't need the money, for crissakes. She's living with Monty. I know it.
I don't know what you're referring to. Wendy maintains her own residence.
It stinks. I thought woman were independent now.
Until she remarries, Fletch.
Hey, shut up, okay? I just hate this.
I empathize with your plight, Fletch. However, you threw her out.
She was sleeping with everybody. The cable TV guy. You can't get lower than that...
You should have proved that in a court of law.
My lawyer was a bum.
I agree.
I think he was sleeping with Wendy, too.
You may be right.
Are you serious?
That's history, Fletch. You owe us nine hundred and eighteen dollars.
Wait a minute! Our problems might be solved.
Damn... lost again. Sorry.
This is no joke. If some kind of payment isn't made, we're going to have to contact the paper and garnish your wages.
Cash. I'm impressed.
Found it in a cab. That's a grand. Apply the difference to next month.
Till then.
It's me doctor Rosenpenis. I just have to take another peek at Alan Stanwyk's file. What have they done with this place?
Nothing. They're still there.
Right. Fine.
Are you all right, Doctor?
Where am I?
You're in the Records Room.
I'm fine.
Can I get you something?
Have you got a makeshift plywood pillory? Heh Heh, just kidding.
Doctor Holmes went to get you some smelling salts. He was quite surprised that you fainted.
Well, I didn't want to say anything, but I thought the dead man was my brother.
Oh my God!
It's all right. It wasn't him but that spleen was a splitting image.
Oh, God, I think I'm about to hyperventilate. Have you got a paper bag, or something.
Yes, right away.
Here you are, Doctor.
Thank you.
Is there anything particular you're looking for?
My associates did a biopsy on this man recently. He's supposed to have a melanoma, or a carcinoma, some kind of noma. Hmmm. I can't seem to find any record of it.
Well, if he had one, it would certainly be in here. Wait. Here it is. Yep. Surgical removal of two moles. Tissue was benign.
That's it?
That's it.
This was last month. So Alan Stanwyk does not have cancer.
I guess not.
He'll be so relieved.
So what do you figure?
No idea.
No idea at all?
Okay. Some idea.
Like when?
Like tonight.
For sure?
No, not for sure. When it comes, it comes. You gonna want some shit?
I think Id rather have drugs.
Fletch...
Sorry. I find a little humor really brightens things up around here, dont you?
Jesus.
You don't know me.
My pleasure.
I'm serious, Sam.
What, the heat here?
Affirmative.
The two surfer boys?
Affirmative.
Thought so. What for?
For me. I'm a reporter, Sam. I'm breaking the drug story and I got the chief redhanded. Gummy gave me a deposition.
You gonna nail the chief?
I'm gonna nail the chief. And you can help or 
Oh, I'll help, Fletch. I'm a slave to that sonofabitch. He busted me, third offense, gave me a choice: Work for him or do fifteen long. All I get out of this is free snort.
You don't have a piece of the action?
Noooo. Free snort. That's it.
Wait five minutes, and go to my office. You'll get federal protection after that.
Gonna need it. That boy is dangerous. Fletch?
What?
You find the source?
Gum thought Brazil.
Rio. Know how he gets it in the country? Some big shot airline executive flies it in on company jets. Very impressive operation, Fletch. Very impressive.
So where do you know Alan from?
We play tennis at the club.
Really. The California Racquet Club?
Yes.
That's my club too. I haven't seen you there.
Well, I haven't played in a while because of these kidney pains.
Right, and how long have you had these pains, Mr. Barber?
That's Babar.
Two bs?
One. Babar.
That's two.
But not right next to each other. I thought that's what you meant.
Arnold Babar. Isn't there a children's book about an elephant named Babar?
I don't know. I don't have any.
No children?
No books. No elephants either. No really good elephant books.
Still, it'd an odd name. I don't remember seeing it on the club registry.
Oh, I don't belong formally. I've gone with my aunt.
Your aunt?
Mrs. Smith.
Joan or Margaret Smith.
Right.
Well, which one?
Margaret.
Funny old bird.
Is she ever. I've got some stories....
I'll bet. Shame about Ed.
It was. Really a shame. To go so suddenly.
Oh, he was dying for years.
Sure, but the end was so sudden.
He was in intensive care for eight weeks.
Yes, but the very end, when he actually died, that was extremely sudden. You know, Alan and I were recently speaking of dying. Told me Boyd Aviation took out a lot of insurance on him. You must have to be in some kind of perfect health to get that kind of policy.
Bend over and drop your pants, Mr. Babar.
Oh really, there's no need to  we don't want to do that...
Just relax....
Honest, I feel fine. You better be married.
Did I say 'kidneys'? I meant my ear. Maybe I should see an ear dahhh  Ever serve time?
Breathe easy...
Anyway, I'm surprised Alan got the policy so easily. I know there's a history of cancer in the family.
There is?
Whoa, look out there. You really need the whole fist?
Just relax.
Gee, Alan's been looking kind of sick lately. Is he all right?
I can't discuss another patient. You know that. Well, I can't find anything wrong with you.
I'm sure it's not for a lack of looking. Maybe I should get a real complete physical. You give Alan an annual, don't you?
Yeah, we check you into Mt. Hebron for a few days, run lots of tests, charge a bundle. You can pull your pants up now.
I hope they still fit. Do I get to keep the glove?
Tell the nurse when you've got a few free days. She'll make all the arrangements.
Thanks, Doc. Maybe I'll come back with a date. Or an elephant.
What the hell are you doing here?
Put the gun down, Alan. I'll take care of them.
I've got it all under control, Jerry. You can go now.
Under control? You idiot. You didn't know who he was?
Fat Sam left the beach today. So did Gummy. It began to occur to me that some things are beginning to happen that maybe I should be aware of.
I said I'll take care of it. Now, a man of your position shouldn't be a part of what's about to go down. So go home and I'll call you tomorrow.
What, 'long distance?' I couldn't help but hear you say something about Rio, Alan. You're not leaving with the eight hundred thousand dollars I staked you for the next load, are you?
Jerry, you're simply going to have to trust me. I've got a foolproof way to get rid of this guy and now you're jeopardizing everything.
Your 'foolproof' way is going to land my ass on the front page while you're basking in Rio.
You decorate this yourself or did Mrs. Chief of Police help you?
You should have seen what she wanted to do with the place. Mauve. So what's your name?
Fletch.
Full name.
Fletch F. Fletch
I see. And what do you do for a living, Mr. Fletch?
I'm President of the International Fletch Corporation.
Why are you doing this Mr. Fletch?
Frankly sir, you look a little like my father. Probably explains the curious feeling of love I have for you.
For a gentleman who was just found holding a bag full of heroin...
It was planted on me, sir.
We're looking at five years, maybe ten. Is that what you want... Jane Doe?
Your editor called me yesterday to respond to allegations you're about to print about police involvement in narcotics dealing. Fletch starts to get up, but Cummings plants his foot on Fletch's chest, forces him back down.
I'm about to break that beach wide open, and I don't need some pennyante Woodward and Bernstein getting in the way of my men.
'Your men' might just be involved in all this.
You idiot. Off the record, deep background: I've got that beach crawling with undercover cops.
You go back to that goddamn beach, I swear to God I'll make you regret it.
Hey, you and Tommy Lasorda. That's great.
You can't keep me here.
Maybe I'm not going to keep you here. Maybe I'm gonna blow your brains out.
I'm no lawyer, but I do believe that's a violation of my rights.
After I shoot you, I stick the knife in my arm, then place it in your dead hand. Selfdefense. We don't do this very much anymore... but we have. Got rid of a lot of minorities that way.
My God, you're serious.
Ask anybody.
Can I ask anybody now?
Can I call my Mom? I'd like to tell here how much I've always loved her.
What'll it be Fletch?
I hate the beach. Wouldn't go there if you paid me. Besides, I'm way overdue on my story about offtrack betting in the Himalayas. You don't think it's the mafia, do you?
Its been very nice meeting you. I enjoy your column.
Speaking of which, you're not going to print anything before my investigation is through, are you?
Not a prayer.
That a boy.
Thanks for coming down to see us.
Not at all, Chief. But next time... no tongue, okay?
Greetings, everyone.
Thank God, the police.
This one's going to be even more fun.
Go ahead. Make my evening.
Maybe tonight?
Whaddyamean 'maybe'?
That's what he said.
He doesn't know? How come he doesn't know?
I don't know how he doesn't know. He doesn't know.
Sonofabitch.
Wonder who his supplier is.
I have no idea.
I wasn't asking.
He never leaves the beach, Fat Sam. Never leaves. Sits in that chair, he's outta junk. Then he suddenly gets up, he's got junk. So where does it come from? Through the sand?
I think that's highly unlikely, Creasy.
I ought to get some sleep.
Creasy, how old are you?
Nineteen.
You're not taking real good care of yourself.
Hey, what are you doing?
Fletch, this is dumb.
You don't have to run with me, Crease.
Fletch!
What goddamn right do you have to take him?
Hey you're really nuts.
They didn't do anything.
What? What are you talking about?
I busted their window, they didn't do anything.
You're lucky.
Not luck. They don't want me.
Yes sir, you are confirmed on Flight 306 to Rio tomorrow evening at 11 PM. First Class.
You're kidding.
Would you like me to change anything?
So he's going. Uh... are there any other tickets charged to the same account?
We'd have no way of knowing that, sir.
Hmm. It's just that there are some other people from my office going on this trip and... is there anyone in the seat next to me?
Never heard of him. Thanks anyway.
You mean her.
What?
Sally Ann Cavanaugh. Oh wait, she couldn't work in your office, she's not from around here.
Oh, thanks.
First of all, let me just reiterate that this is not a formal investigation. I'm not going through formal channels here, because if Alan Stanwyk is not involved in any improprieties, then nobody has to know I was even 
Alan Stanwyk is not involved in improprieties. Where the hell does the S.E.C. come off 
Look. You know that and I know that, but somebody's bucking for a promotion. I think it's that bozo, Hanrahan, I can't be sure. Anyway, unless I go back there with something, you and your soninlaw are next week's scapegoats.
Unbelievable.
I feel like dirt. They even want to know what he's doing in Utah?
Utah? Jesus Christ! First of all, Alan Stanwyk does not own one share of stock.The three million dollars for the ranch in Provo comes from my daughter who converted some of her personal holdings, not company holdings. Now if anybody in DC wants to make something of that, bring 'em on. Until then, get the hell out of my face.
God I admire you.
By the way: what kind of name is Poon?
Comanche Indian.
You sure? She's got kind of like brown hair.
Positive.
You sure?
Positive.
My friend told me she lived around here.
Your friend must be misinformed.
Didn't I see you at Pitt yesterday?
So what do you want with her anyway?
I'm a good friend of hers.
How do I know you're not lying.
Yo, I know what you're thinking, that I'm one of those guys that keep coming up to her.
Probably. One of the many.
What?
Nothing.
No.
So, then whadda ya want?
You wanna do somethin' with me?
Not really.
Hey!
Wha'?
Where you know Amanda from?
Jus' from around the way.
You live around here?
Yeah.
You gotta girLfrLend?
I know how ta get him back if you want.
Nah.
You looking for somebody?
Wha'?
You here to see somebody?
Yeah.
Who?
A girl named Amanda.
What she look like?
She's like this high, dark hair, skinny
Yo, that's my girl.
She didn't say she had no man.
I suggest you turn around and go back to where you came from.
How does he look up close?
Umm, he got dark brownish eyes, he got a nice nose I love his nose. I love his skin. I love his lips, he got a great smile and he got
A bad attitude.
Yeah, he got a bad attitude.
You said before, that he got boxes?
Yeah, he got boxes in his stomach. He's taller than me.
How old is he?
I think he's 18 or 17.
You gonna talk to him?
Um, yeah I think so.
Like this?
Yeah, that's right, you got it girl.
Now salsa, you know how to dance salsa?
Yeah.
Okay, then dance. Show.
Why?
I got punished, man.
Fa what?
I won't let my motha cut my hair.
Wha'?
She fucks it all up!
Forget it! C'mon Let's go to the pool.
I can't man, I'm punished!
They are?
Yeah! Tell me which one you would like. To be doin' nothin on a fire escape or beat the pool with a bunch of girls? Be straight up!
I'll be right down.
So what girls are over there?
Natasha, Maria, Tina
These are the pretty girls you told me to come down for?
What are you going that way for?
I'm not goin' to 10th Street, people piss and shit in that pool,
Where you goin'?
Pitt.
Oh man, what we gotta leave ar' own neighborhood for?
C'mon.
Man, if I go down you're goin' down with me.
Amanda is Eddie's cousin.
Eddie from Compost?
No, Baruch.
I gotta go take a piss.
If we were at 10th Street Pool you woulda done it right in the water, right?
Yo, remember from the pool, that girl?
Which one?
You know, Eddie's cousin.
The one with the phat ass?
No, c'mon, stop playin'. The girl that you kissed when we got there. Where s he live at?
I'm gonna punch you. What you want with her anyway? You in love with her?
She lives near Eddie?
I think she lives down by Pitt.
Near Natasha's? Or over by Boy's Club?
I think by Twentytwo.
For real?
What you want with her anyway'
Yo! What you goin' for
'Cause you know what, you're not supposed to know but yesterday she lent me her pills for her Moms and if I don't give 'em to her she's gonna die. You want her to die?
Come down!
I can't!
Who gives!
I can't, I'm gonna get punished more!
Wussup?
Wussup, Victor.
Yo, can I talk to you for a minute?
Eddie from Compost?
Eddie from Baruch, the one who was sittin' wit' dat little girl;
Why don't you ask Eddie?
Yo, CarlosI'm gonna punch you.
Who are you?
I'm wit' Carlos.
Do you have a name?
Victor.
What?
Victor.
Wussup?
Wussup.
Yo.
Hi.
Remember me, from the pool?
Um. Yeah! Shorty!
So watcha doin'?
Nothin'.
What are you doin' here?
I, umm, came to see you.
You know somebody around here?
No. What you do today?
Oh you know, cleaned the house, cooked. Took care of my little sisters. Sit down. So where's Carlos?
I guess he's outside someplace I don't like takin' him down to certain places.
Whadja wanna see me about?
I just wanted to see you.
So you got a girl?
Of course.
So what's her name?
You know. I got a lot, more than one.
A playya.
You got a boyfriend?
Me? No. Don't want none either. Such bastards, man.
So wadda you do with your girls?
Just chill.
That's it?
Nah, we make out and stuff.
So what you think of me?
You look good.
I look good, that's it. So what else do you do for these girls?
I buy them flowers.
How you treat them?
Good. I'm faithful to them.
See, I got you, you are so scared. I don't believe that you kissed no girls. That you got three girls and that you faithful and this and that.
I did.
Well, you know I'm standin' here and you say I look good?
I kissed those girls.
No you didn't, you ain't provin'it.
I aint gotta prove nothin' to no girl, 'cause I got it like dat.
Oh, 'cause you got it like dat?
Don't fuck wit' me! Don't fuck wit' me. My lawyer's so good he'll have you workin in Alaska, so dress warn.
Aaron, how you doin'?
Fine.
Look at me.
What?
Why you have an attitude for?
Not now, I'm busy
God, I just wanna speak to you. I just wanna speak to you the way I feel about you.
Hurry up, you're wastin' my time, what the fuck.
Please don't scream at me. I like you, but I don't like the way your attitude is.
So get the fuck outta here.
I wanna go out with you, I want to be part of your life. I want you to treat me the way a girlfriend should be treated.
Then don't go out with me.
For once in your life have some respect for me, don't even curse at me or nothin'.
Now she's tellin' me what the fuck to do.
God, you drive me crazy. I just want you to know how I feel and you don't understand.
Just get the fuck outta here.
Alright, tell me, what'd you hear?
There's a rumor that you were tryin' to get somebody to beat me up.
What chu listening to rumors for? I'm not like dat.
Is it true?
I told you, no. I'm not that type.
Then I want you to go to whoever's sayin' that and tell them to stop.
Alright.
Miss Dupea.
Yes.
I'd like to remind you again, this isn't an opera or a musical comedy.
Oh... I'm sorry. Was I singing again?
If you want to call it that.
Well, you have to simply tell me, that's all.
That's exactly what I am doing, again.
Do you have to let me get halfway through the movement first? This is tiring me.
I have a suggestion. Why don't we take a break.
Oh, for pity's sake...
John believes in the basic goodness of man, and that's fine, but gaze into the pit like I have and that view seems a little soporific. And not unlike television, it hardly represents the real world...
There's some good things on it, though.
Pardon me?
The TV. There's some good things on it, sometimes.
I strongly doubt it, but I wasn't really discussing media...
The choice of words, "squashed flat," juxtaposed against the image of a fluffy kitten...
Well, she was.
Perhaps...
Mass production is what does it.
What do you mean "mass"... I have to come out and tell you, you're not that clean, either.
Wait a minute. I'm not that neat, maybe, but I am clean.
Well, you're not that bad, but some people... I mean, people's homes, just filth. I've been in people's homes...
In my personal observation, I think that more people are neat than are clean...
In my personal thing, I don't see that. I'm seeing more filth. A lot of filth. What they need to do every day, no, once in a while, is a cockroach thing, where they spray the homes. And uh... can you imagine, if their doors were painted a pretty color, and they had a pot outside, with...
Yeah, it could be adorable...
And they picked up! I mean, it wouldn't be filthy, with Coke bottles and whiskey, and those signs everywhere...
And you know, I read where they invented this car that runs on... that runs on... when you boil water...
Steam.
Right, steam. A car you could ride around in and not cause a stink. But do you know, they will not even let us have it. Can you believe it? Why?! Man! He likes to create a stink. I wrote them a note once, and told them to clean it... I mean, don't you see that? It's just filthy! I mean, I've seen filth you wouldn't believe! Oofh, what a stink! I don't even want to talk about it...
Come on, Terry, we got a ride!
Jesus, what a rude person...
There'd never be a hole big enough. Now took at me, for instance, when I was just one person, before Bobby, I had so much garbage collectin' onto me every day, I was thinkin' about gettin a dispose all...
A disposeall, what's that but more crap? I've never seen such crap. Oofh, I don't know how people get up in the morning.
Well...
Not dirt. See, dirt isn't bad. It's filth. Filth is bad. That's what starts maggots and riots...
Hey, follow that truck. They know the best places to stop.
That's an old maid's tale.
Bullshit! Truck drivers know the best eating places on the road.
Salesmen and cops are the ones. If you'd ever waitressed, honey, you'd know.
Don't call me "honey," mack.
Don't call me "mack," honey.
I wouldn't be a waitress. They're nasty and full of crap.
You better hold onto your tongue!
Hold onto this.
And what about love?
What about it? Wouldn't you agree that a great deal of mischief has been done in the name of love?
No, I wouldn't.
Well, you're a romantic, Catherine, as are most musicians, and what's more, about to be married...
... which should exclude you from any objective discussion. But keep in mind, even the arts aren't free of aggressive content, nor the institution of marriage.
I think these cold, "objective" discussions are aggressive, Samia...
But I'd like to say, so that I don't dampen the spirit of your adventure...
You haven't dampened my spirit, Samia... Excuse me.
Well, I should hope not...
Oh no, it's been much more than that.
Away from the piano, Tita, you have no sense of time at all.
I don't think that's true.
It is true.
Besides being very rude.
You know, just after I came back off tour with the Betenthaller Quartet, Dad, myself and Herbert had a summit conference about you...
Oh, my, "a summit conference." I wonder where I was, polishing silver behind the coal bin.
I don't know where you were, penis envy.
I hope I didn't hear that.
At any rate, Dad wanted to hire a private detective to ferret you out, and I said, "What for?" Whatever the hell he's doing, even if it's a completely wasteful escapade, it's entirely his business. Simple as that...
What's wrong, Carl, you hardly ate anything...
I took some aspirin and it really upset my stomach.
You've been staying in a motel all this time?
For two whole weeks, an' there wasn't hardly nobody there to talk to but me. The manager of the place told me it was the off season, an' it must a ben, because other'n me, there was just this 25yearold kid, DeLyon, that didn't appear to be all there, an' this old married pair next to me that was always hollerin' for quiet. Can you imagine? All you could a heard there was a pin, an' them, hollerin' away...
I don't understand why you had to stay in a motel. There's more than enough room here.
Well, I was goin' to, but Bobby said he hadda kind of feel things up here first, which I can understand, but then it went an' took so long, I ran flat outa money... I didn't have no number to call, you know. So I hadda clear outa there an' come on up here, in the hopes that I wouldn't be intrudin' myself...
Oh, no. You're more than welcome.
Well, thank you, that's a very nice thing for you to say.
Not at all.
No, you're not. Go ahead and take your time.
I do eat slow as a bird, whereas Bobby can put it away like a speed swing... Is there any ketchup around?
What kind of doggy is that?
It's a Borzoi.
Oh, uh huh. I had a little kittycat once, that Bobby give me...
Come on, get moving, dammit!!
Will you shut up for a minute!! Pull your car out of line.
Haven't you got a jacket or anything with you?
No, I don't, I uh... it got burned up. Everything in the car got the shit burned out of it. All I got left is what I have on...
I've got an extra jacket behind the seat, if you want to put it on.
No, it's okay.
Suit yourself. But I'll tell you, where we're headed is gonna get colder'n hell.
It's all right. I'm fine.
Four or five years.
No, the last time was three years ago.
Did you hear about my misfortune, Robert?
What?
It's still nearly impossible for me to turn my neck. If I wanted to turn toward Catherine, for instance, I'd first have to twist the whole base of my body around... ... like this...
She's tremendously gifted, this girl.
Is she?
I hope you feel at home, Robert. I'm really glad you're here.
Thanks, Carl...
Robert, do you mind?
What?
Nothing. Will you excuse us for a while?
You sure you should be playing, Carl?
What do you mean? Aside from my neck, I'm in superb shape.
I'm not aware of it. Like what?
Your serve. Two  Eighteen.
I've walked across a stage a number of times, without exciting any particular response...
That's what I mean...
See? There's nothing wrong with the way I walk. Now where are we?
At game, Carl.
That's three games to none, Carl.
All right, let's have a rematch.
I thought you had to go to the mainland today. Aren't you going to miss the ferry?
Oh, for chrissakes...
Robert, let's not be rude, okay?
Robert, I think you better just...
You're all full of shit!
What have you been doing since then?
What have I been doing? Different things, different jobs, here and there. Nothing that interesting.
And you no longer play at all?
Hello...
I guess you fell in the water.
Yes, intentionally.
That's dangerous, you know.
Swimming?
Playing piano all day and then jumping into cold water. You could get a cramp.
I love to swim, and I don't mind the cold at all. It's invigorating.
Well, I wouldn't want to get too invigorated myself.
Why?
What would I do with it? Run amok?
Besides piano and swimming, what else do you do?
Well, there's fishing and boating. There's concerts on the mainland and... but I feel silly telling you. This is really your home. You probably know better than I what there is to do.
Nothing.
Nothing? Then it must be very boring for you here.
That's right. Have you anything to suggest?
I don't know. Let me give it some thought.
Right now I'm going to run a hot tub and soak myself.
Then after that?
After that, I plan to read some music and rest for awhile.
Tomorrow, then.
Tomorrow's a full practice day... But the day after is kind of open.
Carl has hydrotherapy on Tuesdays.
The day after tomorrow.
If you're free.
Yeah, I'll probably be free.
One thing that's hard to understand is how you could have this incredible background in music, and then just walk away from it, without a second thought...
I gave it a second thought.
I mean, how could you not play anymore? That's so strange to me...
I have played a few times. Here and there. As a matter of fact, I was once a rehearsal pianist for a Las Vegas musical revue.
You don't call that music, though.
Of course I do. It's music. You know...
That was beautiful, Robert. I'm surprised...
Thank you.
I was really very moved by the way you...
Is that funny?
It wasn't supposed to be, it just struck me that way.
Why?
Nothing. It's just that... I picked the easiest piece I could remember. I think I first played it when I was 8 years old and I played it better then.
It doesn't matter. It was the feeling I was affected by.
I didn't have any.
You had no inner feeling?
None.
Then I must have been supplying it.
Wait...
Well, at least you're accomplished at something...
What?
At being a fake.
Catherine...
No, you're very good at it. I'm really impressed.
You think I'm a fake.
I think it's what you think.
No, it isn't what I think.
Look... You made a very calculated move, and then made me feel embarrassed for responding to you. That wasn't necessary.
Yes, it was. You've made it clear that if I can cut a little piano, I might get a little response.
I don't think that's accurate...
Up to now, what I've been getting from you are meaningful looks over the dinner table and a lot of vague suggestions about the day after tomorrow...
I'm not conscious of having given you any meaningful looks. And as for the day after tomorrow, this is the day after tomorrow, and I am, unfortunately, seeing you... Now if you'll excuse me, I'd like to take a bath.
It's convenient to fake looking for something right now, isn't it?
I'm not faking anything. I'm looking for some bath oil...
Some bath oil?
I don't find your language that charming.
It's direct, anyway, which seems to be difficult for you.
I'd like you to leave now. Is that direct enough?
Serious, that's what's important to you?
Yes, that's what's important to me...
No, don't do that...
Shut up...
No inner feeling.
That's right.
I don't believe vou.
I married him when I was 17. He was a cellist, and I thought he was the most brilliant man I'd ever met... And I'm sure he was, because at that age, I hadn't met that many... But he was insidious, you know. He had me convinced that I was a mediocrity, musically, as a woman, as an intellect. But in this completely imperceptible, pleasant way, so that you weren't even sure he was doing it. Anyway, I just woke up one morning and I said, you know something Joseph, you're full of beans, and I left him...
That's what you said?
Something witty and devastating like that.
As a matter of fact, he's the one who introduced me to Carl... How are you?
I'm fine.
Carl restored my confidence. He really did. He's much more substantial than you give him credit for.
Is he?
Yes.
Do you think you could discreetly move across the hall now?
Yeah, I think I could.
Robert?
What?
I could spend some time with you tomorrow morning, before Carl comes back, I mean, if you'd like to.
Of course I'd like to.
Where are you going?
I'm going to pick up some friends of Carl's. Are you all right?
I have to talk to you.
I'll be back later...
No, I want to talk to you now. I have to explain something about...
No, you don't have to, it isn't necessary...
Yes, it is!
No, I can't...
Will you let me talk to you, please?
I can't do that. I haven't been being fair to Carl. I have to tell you that.
Oh. You have to tell me that.
What?! I can't hear you!
I'm sorry everything's been so confusing, but I have to go, Robert...
Catherine...
Please, I'll see you later this evening.
No. It's useless, Robert. It wouldn't work, not ever...
Just give me a chance, will you?
I'm trying to be delicate with you, but you're not understanding me. It's not just because of Carl, or my music, but because of you... I mean, what would it come to? If a person has no love for himself, no respect, no love for his work, his family, his friends, something... How can he ask for love in return? I mean, why should he ask for it?
And living out here, in this rest home asylum, that's what you want?
Yes.
That'll make you happy.
I hope it will, yes. I'm sorry.
Tea.
Would you tell her Bobby's here?
Oh my goodness... Bobby...
Hi, Tita.
Robert Eroica...
Now don't...
No, I'm not... I'm not.
That's good.
I just can't look at you.
Don't, then.
You always do this to me.
Well, I don't mean to. Here's your tea, Tita.
Thank you... Oh no, don't put it on there...
Sorry.
This is a very special, very old CB 275...
Oh.
You know who it once belonged to?
No.
Waldnit von Schnechter. Prewar.
No kidding.
Robert...
Very nice.
I have to talk seriously with you...
Everybody still up on the Island?
Well, Herbert's mostly on the mainland because of the orchestra, so at the moment, there's just Daddy, Carl and myself... and Van Oost.
Who's Van Oost?
Catherine  she's a pianist. She's working with Carl.
Carl's a fiddler. What's he doing coaching piano?
Well, 11 months ago he was on his bicycle, on his way to the post office in La Roche... and he ran into a Jeep and sprained his neck...
It's not funny. He permanently sprained his neck, and since then it's been extremely difficult for him to tuck the violin.
Crashes into a Jeep and totals his neck. That's Carl...
Robert, I have to tell you something...
What?
Daddy's very ill.
Oh, well, what, what's he...
He's had two strokes.
He's not... They feel he... maybe he might not recover, and that he'll either...
Don't tell me about this...
Yeah... I guess so...
I'm going back up tonight. Will you go with me?
No...
I'd rather drive up myself and... maybe go into Canada after... And I can't stay long, Tita, probably a week, at the most.
I know.
Well... I better let you...
Wait...
Maybe you better stay, then.
No, I need to talk to you, about so many things...
Well, I'll be seeing you in a couple of days, won't I?
Oh God, I'm so glad, Robert, that you're coming...
Yeah, me, too...
It'll be so good for you, and for Daddy, because you know, you've never really...
Tita, I've got to go...
All right...
Well, I really appreciate it, Carl.
I don't think you should infer Daddy was wrong in front of him...
How long have you been staying here?
A couple of months.
He has ways of communicating, Robert. I can tell when he's expressing approval or disapproval, just from his eyes...
Uhm hmm. Some range.
It's not that bad.
Yes, it is. I can't take seeing him, sitting there like a stone.
A week or two isn't going to ruin your life, for Godsakes.
I mean, you think I'm that happy?
No, I don't. You should've left a long time ago.
We can't all get up and leave, can we? I mean, there are certain needs you have to respond to...
What questions?
Well, do you  I mean, have you enjoyed all these... strange things you've been doing?
Sometimes.
Why? Am I some kind of freak to you or something?
No, no, I don't think that, I'm just curious about it... Do you think I'm a freak?
Sort of.
Oh no... Why? What is it? The way I look?
No, I don't really think you're a freak.
I probably am, but I don't care. I mean, I wasn't that blessed to begin with, and when would I have had time to make any improvements...
What about Carl and Catherine? Is he just coaching her, or what?
Constantly. Night and day. And unless I get up before the birds, I can't get in any practice time for myself...
Uhm hmm.
Actually, it's very admirable, the way she works. She'll probably be enormously successful, because she's attractive as well, not that that's so important in music, but...
You're attractive, Tita. If you just did a little more with yourself...
Like what?
Well, if you just maybe did something with your hair, or...
Oh, let's not talk about my hair, it does what it wants to, and anyway, who cares, I want to talk about you...
There's nothing to say, Tita...
Well, you're not going to run out on me right away, are you?
I don't know.
Do you want some gingerbread?
What?
With applesauce?
No, thanks...
Look at that.
Why are you being so mean?
I'm not. He does walk funny. Don't you see that?
I don't think I'd notice. I'm so used to Carl.
Yeah, well, he's...
I think he's got a terrific personality.
You know, he was formerly a sailor.
Look, can't you see that, what I'm talking about?
Sailors are sadistic, I feel.
Where is she, anyway?
My turn.
It's none of your business!
Where's Catherine?!
I don't know where she is!
I'm talking to you, Tita!
Can't I have anything to myself, dammit?!
You're leaving?
Yeah. I said a week, and I've overstayed myself...
You were going without saying goodbye?
I didn't want to say goodbye to anyone.
But what about me?
I'll say goodbye to you, Tita.
Bye, now.
Bye, Robert.
Wasn't it, ladies?
Are you talking to us?
We been wantin' to ask you something. Are you the guy on YV?
Am I on TV?
She says you're the one that sells all the cars on TV.
Well, I don't claim to have sold 'em all. They still have some left, I believe.
I'm gonna give you our number, Donnie, just in case... We're both professionals, if you didn't guess.
Well, you seem very professional...
I always tell everyone the same thing. I got rolled and beat up real bad recently, and since then it's two for one, an' I work strictly in tandem with Betty...
Can I get you anything else?
No. How much do I owe you?
Five'll do it.
No substitutions.
What does that mean? You don't have any tomatoes?
No. We have tomatoes.
But I can't have any. Is that what you mean?
Only what's on the menu... A Number Two: Plain omelette. It comes with cottage fries and rolls.
I know what it comes with, but that's not what I want.
I'll come back when you've made up your mind...
Wait, I've made up my mind. I want a plain omelette, forget the tomatoes, don't put potatoes on the plate, and give me a side of wheat toast and a cup of coffee.
I'm sorry, we don't have side orders of toast. I can give you an English muffin or a coffee roll.
What do you mean, you don't have side orders of toast? You make sandwiches, don't you?
Would you like to talk to the manager?
I don't make the rules.
Okay, I'll make it as easy for you as I can. Give me an omelette, plain, and a chicken salad sandwich on wheat toast  no butter, no mayonnaise, no lettuce  and a cup of coffee.
One Number Two, and a chicken sal san  hold the butter, the mayo, the lettuce  and a cup of coffee... Anything else?
Now all you have to do is hold the chicken, bring me the toast, charge me for the sandwich, and you haven't broken any rules.
You want me to hold the chicken.
Yeah. I want you to hold it between your knees.
Look at my car! Piece of shit! I just bought it brand new from a usedcar lot, and the steering goes to the pot on me!
You're lucky no one was hurt.
Seven hundred dollars, down the toilet! I'd like to go back and punch the son of a bitch out! Can you give us a lift?
What's your name?
Palm Apodaca.
How far are you going to?
Washington.
We'll get off in Washington and hook another ride.
Where are you going?
Alaska.
Alaska? Are you on vacation?
You don't have to tell everybody about it. Pretty soon they'll all go there and it won't be so clean.
How do you know it's clean?
I saw a picture of it. Alaska is very clean. It appeared to look very white to me... Don't you think?
Yeah. That's before the big thaw.
I had to leave this place. I got depressed, seeing all the crap. And the thing is, they're making more crap, you know? They've got so many stores and stuff and junk full of crap, I can't believe it.
Who?
Who? People, that's who! Pretty soon there won't be room for anyone. They're selling more crap that people go and buy than you can imagine. Oofh! Crap! I believe everybody should have a big hole where they throw in all this stuff and burn it.
Well...
It's just filthy. People are dirty. I think that's the biggest thing that's wrong with people. I think they wouldn't be as violent if they were clean, because then they wouldn't have anybody to pick on... Oofh... Dirt...
Hey, mack!
Shut up. You have bread, don't you, and a toaster of some kind?
Fantastic! That you could figure all that out, and lay that down on her, to come up with a way you could get your toast.
I didn't get it, did I?
No, but it was very clever... I would of just punched her out.
You're not going to play it again.
Well, lemme play the other side then.
No.
Now quit, Bobby. You said you're goin' a help me pick a song.
You said.
Well, lemme sing the one I picked an' see what you think... "When there's a fire in your heart/Break the glass/Sound the alarm..."
How 'bout if I just cut off your damn water?
I'm too moved by your gentility to speak.
Sugar, you know how I feel about you, don't you? I'm just tryin' to get you to take an interest in my kind a things, an' what I'm tryin' to do with myself... You know, there id'n anything in the world I wouldn't do for you, baby. I started livin' the day I found you, you know that?
You're playing the other side.
Cerveza.
Serveza yourself!
Now, now.
No, dammit, I would easy.
Why'nt you take 'at sign off your tit, Ray, an' let's go on out.
Out where?
I'll go out with you, or I'll stay here, and do anything you'd like for me to do... if you'll just do one thing. If you'll tell me that you love me.
You can sing the song.
You know what, you are never satisfied.
That's right, hand.
I'm tryin', baby, so don't start gettin' mad now.
No, I'm not mad at you, hand. It'll be all right. Just spot and follow through...
Is it my turn again?
Right. Now show me a little somethin' this time, okay? Give me some form...
I can't help it, honey, the ball just keeps goin' cocky wobbly on me...
Will you just do what the hell I tell you...
I did, didn' I, El?
You got another ball comin'.
That was damn good, wad'n it? I finally did it...
Yeah, great. Why don't you throw Z's for 19 frames, and then roll a strike on the last ball in the last frame of a losing game? Just wonderful.
Come on. We're goin' over to Elton's.
I'm not.
You just going to sit there?
Yes.
Okay. Hope no one hits on you.
I hope they do.
Come on, DiPesto. We can still have a good time.
You're the pathetic one, not me.
I'm going on over there...
I'm not some piece a crap.
I know you're not.
You treat me like I was.
I'm sorry.
You go slippin' around in front a my face, an' in front a Elton an' Stoney. What do you imagine they think a someone you treat that way...
Now, hand...
Elton and Stoney know how I feel about you. An' they're just goin' to think I'm not too nice a guy, which I'm not, an' that you're a hell of a person puttin' up with me, that's all.
You're goin' a find me dead one time.
Sssh, come on now... Be a good girl.
If you really want a get up an' leave me, you can read about it in the newsprint.
I'm not going to get up an' leave you. Now let's go over to El's an' have a good time.
Do you love me, Bobby?
I'll be gone two or three weeks.
You'll be gone, period.
You like it?
I love it.
"You'll be burned out/Or smoked out/An' come back to me, I know..."
"Every trail that you blaze/Makes me..."
What the hell is that?
What?
I'll tell you... ... later.
Just one minute, you! Don't you ever talk to me like that!
Shut up! All of you!
Are you depressed about your daddy, honey?
No.
I 'magine it's me then, id'n it?
Is what you?
You're depressed that I come along.
Who said I was depressed?
Well, is that a happy face I see?
'Cause if it was me, I could just catch a Greyhound back.
Oh, you're not going to kill yourself this time. I wish I'd known...
Why can't I go out to your folks' house? Give me one good reason.
I have to see how things are first. My father's sick, you understand? They wouldn't be prepared for me bringing anyone.
So how long am I supposed to sit an' twiddle my thumbs in this place?
If you can't do what I ask, Ray, use that money to go back home, then.
Bobby, don't talk like that...
Okay, Ray...
Or maybe sit out by the pool an' get myself nice an' tan for you. Would you like that?
Sure...
It brings out my eyes...
Bye, honey, I'll call you in a couple of days.
Okay...
This certainly is an improvement on the motel an' the coffee shop. How could you have left such a beautiful place, Bobby?
I don't know.
Rayette.
What?
Just finish eating.
Oh, am I holdin' up dessert?
It's all right. He don't mean anything by that.
I don't, huh?
Bobby...
I can't talk to you right now, leave me alone...
Come on.
Wait a sec. I want Tita to take a picture of you an' me in front of the place...
No, let's go...
I'm gonna go in that cafe an' get some coffee. You want anything?
No.
You got any change?
Sure you don't want anything?
Fill it up.
We gotta get on home an' relieve the sitter. Why'nt you an' Ray come on over.
Okay. Go ahead. I'll settle up for the beers... An' walk Rayette over with you, will you.
Give 'em the horn, Bob.
Look at these assholes! What the hell are they doing?!
Well, id'n that nice.
It's ridiculous! I'm sitting here, listening to some asshole cracker compare his life to mine!
If you're sayin' you're somethin' better'n what I am, that's one thing. But I can't say much a someone who'd run off an' leave a woman in a situation like this an' feel easy about it. An' that's all I gotta say.
I hope that's all you gotta say, El, 'cause I'm about as tired of your mouth as I am workin' this stinkin' hole!
Tell me what in the hell's going on, Elton!
I got accused a robbin' a fillin'station down in the Indian Nation, didn' I tell you...
See, I told you it was him... Your name's Donnie something, right?
I leave it to you.
My name is Shirley, but they call me Betty, and her name's Twinky.
Twinky?
Yeah, 'cause she's so "twinky"...
Well, Betty and Twinky, it sure is nice talking to you girls. I just wish I had more time...
That's a wig you wear, isn't it?
A wig?
Yeah, I told her it was you, but that you're wearing a wig, 'cause on TV you're mostly bald in the front.
Your little friend's real sharp there... Yeah, I don't like to wear the wig on TV, because with two and a half million people watching you, you've gotta be sincere. I just like to wear it when I'm out slippin' around bowling alleys an' things like that. I think it gives me a little more class, don't you?
Parry Parry?
No just Parry.
Oh...like Moses.
How about the "Hell Merchants"?
I don't like horror movies!
How about... Zbiegnew Speizak's "The Purple Bread," an intensely portrayed tale of love and envy set against the sweeping background of a Polish bakery. In subtitles.
I don't like... uh... Polish love stories... ... I like musicals.
Well, we have plenty of those. Right over here. We got the MGM series, Astaire and Rogers, the Judy Garlands...
Got any Ethel Merman?
... Uh... we seem to be all out of Ethel Merman.
What a gyp.
Yeah.
...I..uh..I get to read some of the books but mostly I..just calculate production costs from first edition hard cover publication to paperback. After paperback it's basically someone else's problem.
It sounds exciting.
Why does it sound exciting? There's absolutely nothing exciting about it.
We mostly publish trashy romance novels.
Well  empires have fallen because of trashy romances...
How do you know him?
We were neighbors for a couple for weeks on Sutton Place.
What do you do  for a living I mean?
Well, I'm in search of the Holy Grail.
Tell me more. I want to know everything.
There isn't any more to tell.
Don't say that.
No, really..believe me  there isn't any more. This is it.
Well, it's enough for me.
You don't have to say that.
I never say anything I have to.
I mean you don't have to say nice things to me... That kind of thing is a little old fashioned for what we're about to do.
What are we about to do?
Well... you're walking me home. I... I guess you're sort of... attracted to me and you'll want to come upstairs for... coffee...
I don't drink coffee...
... and then we'll probably have a drink and talk and get comfortable with each other and... and we'll... then you'll sleep over and then in the morning... ... you'll be distant and you won't be... able to stay for breakfast... you'll just have some coffee maybe...
I don't drink coffee...
And then we'll exchange phone numbers and you'll leave and never call and I'll go to work and feel great for the first hour and then slowly turn into a piece of dirt by lunch. Why am I putting myself through this? It was very nice... uh meeting you. Good night..
Excuse me...
Listen, I'm not feeling well.
Well, no wonder. We just met, made love and broke up all in the space of thirty seconds and I can't even remember the first kiss which is the best part.
Listen, you're very nice... b...
So are you, but I think maybe you should shut up now... ... I'm not coming up to your apartment. That was never my idea.
Oh... You mean you don't want to.
Oh no, I want to. I've got a hardon for you the size of Canada... but I don't... want just one night. I have a confession to make?
You're married.
No.
Divorced.
No, I...
You have a disease.
Will you stop!... ... I'm in love with you...
... It's not just from tonight. I've known you for a long time. I see you come out of work every day. I walk with you to lunch. I know what you order... I see you buy Baby Ruths before going back in... I know how you feel on certain days by whether or not you go into the bookstore... ... I know you hate your job and you don't have many friends and you sometimes feel like you're not as... as wonderful as everybody else and you're a little uncoordinated ... and feeling like you're the only one who's as separate and... alone as you are... and I love you. I love you. I think you're the greatest thing since... spice racks and I would be knocked out several times if I even got just a first kiss. But I'll be back in the morning. And I won't be distant. And I will call if you let me... But I still don't drink coffee.
Shhh...
Unhand that degenerate  you adolescent ass of a one balled donkey!
It's just a bum...You know, there's enough in here for the two of you.
Ha, ha, ha, ha rubbish...now begone...before somebody drops a house on you!...
You a fag too?
<u>Fag..a</u> <u>fag</u> <u>you</u> <u>say!?</u>... <u>"Curst</u> <u>wolf!</u> <u>Thy</u> <u>fury</u> <u>inward</u> <u>on</u> <u>thyself</u> <u>Pray</u> <u>and</u> <u>consume</u> <u>thee!"</u>
Fuck you.
OWWW....What are you nuts?!
BINGO! Tell the man what he's won!
I advise you to let us go.
You advise us!
You're out numbered son.
Come on! Go for it! What the hell are they gonna do? They can't do nothin!
<u>Nothing!</u> <u>They</u> <u>can</u> <u>do</u> <u>nothing!</u> <u>Gentlemen!</u>
Are you all right?
OWW...MAN...
You can't leave me tied up out here alone, you fucking faggot!
You won't be alone for long.
Please don't hurt me?
"OH beings blind! What ignorance besets you!
I need a drink.
I know a great place. ...UH...WARREN!
This is it. I'm in hell. Damned to an eternity of idiotic conversation.
Great place huh?
Have I died?
Hahahahaaa... Nononono... Not yet... Hahahaha...
If you're going to murder me, that's fine... just don't laugh.
Where am I?
My abode... My domicile... My neck of the woods... Hungry? Breakfast? A fruit pie perhaps?
No... thanks... Listen 
My name is Parry.
Hi... Where are my shoes?
They're   What?
Where  ?
<u>What</u>!?
<u>What</u>?!
Sshhhh!
Do you know what the Little People just told me?
The Little People?
They said you're The One.
I'm the one what?
<u>Oh shut up</u>!!!
... I've got a right to say something. I mean, you're tying my hands here! They say you're not ready to know.
I'm not... Now, where are those shoes...
... Do you know who I am?
Uhh... I'm drawing a blank.
Take a guess... <u>Let him guess</u>!! <u>Tch</u>.
Uh... gee... well... you seem to be some kind of vigilante...
No, no... I mean that sort of happens along the way but no... I'm on a very special quest.
A quest?
But I need help and <u>they</u> sent you.
The Little...
They work for Him.
Him...?
God... I'm the janitor of God.
The Holy Grail? Some billionaire has the Holy Grail sitting in a commode on Madison Avenue?
I know! You can't imagine how surprised I was. Who would think you could find anything divine on the Upper East Side.
Listen... I don't mean to be flippant or to enrage you or anything but... you're an imbecile. And I'm not The One... I'm not <u>any</u> One...
I think you're a very nice... very nice psychotic man. I really appreciate what you did for me. It was a very brave and noble thing...
Oh, please... you're embarrassing me.
I wish you all the luck in the world. When you get the Grail, I'm sure I'll be seeing lots of you on various talk shows...
But I can't get it... He's...
See, you don't know him... That's why you're the one... You can get it...
Listen, forget the shoes. I'll just take a cab... Uh...
Parry.
Parry... I'm Jack.
I know...
Thanks... You can keep the doll.
Thanks a mill  And I'll give you a buzz as soon as I hear from the people upstairs and we'll get this thing off the ground... Thanks for stopping by, Jack. Give my love to the wife and kids.
I'm not married.
Funny  you look married.
"Soveriegn princess of his captive heart what dire affliction has thou made me suffer, thus banished from thy presence with reproach, and fettered by thy rigorous command, not to appear again before thy beautiful face. Deign princess, to remember this thy faithful slave, who now endures such misery for love of thee"....
Parry!
Do you follow her every day?
Huhhuh. I'm deeply smitten.
What's her name?
I don't know.
Why did you do that?
Well, if every time someone did something offensive they hit in the head with a pebble, I think they might alter their behavior. What do you think Jack...
Here...I just would like to help you. I thought...maybe...you could use some money.
Fifty dollars?
Here's another twenty. Will that do? I mean, what's it going to take!
No..no, it's..I don't know what to say. This is so nice of you...Jack...
That's O.K.
Can I take you to lunch?
No..I have to get back to work. Take care of yourself.
Well, I think you should be realistic. Ya can't start an ad agency on fifty dollars!
What are you doing? Give that back!
But I gave it to you!
Well what am I gonna do with it?
I don't know. But I gave it to you...to help YOU...not him.
You really want to help me?
Pretty impressive huh?...Don't let it scare you. I'll admit it's formidable but everything has it's weakness.
You can't just break into Langdon Carmichael's house. This man has done nothing.
O.K...let me explain this one more time...The Holly Grail is in ....
All right! Listen  please...don't start drooling or...rolling your eyes when I tell you this but  You shouldn't do this..There is no Holy Grail.
Of course there is, Jack. What do you think the Crusades were  a frat initiation? I don't think so...There has to be a Grail.
Look, you're only sort of insane, really. People like you can lead seminormal lives. You could get a job...
I don't need a job. I have a quest.
I take it back  you're fucking deranged... And you're going to get yourself killed trying to get in there!
Tch. You are so sweet...Now I know why you're saying this. ...You're afraid I'm in danger and you're trying to protect me.
No. I think you're a moron and I don't want to get into trouble.
...You are such a great guy. First the money, now this. Isn't he fabulous!?
Please don't hug me in public again, O.K.?
I LOVE THIS MAN...YA HEAR ME JADED CITY... ...I'M DAFFY ABOUT THIS GUY AND I DON'T CARE WHO KNOWS IT!!!
Will you shutup!!!
You're a true <u>friend</u>.
I'm not. Believe me. <u>I'm</u> scum.
You're a real honest to goodness <u>good</u> guy.
I'm selfcentered, I'm weak  I don't have the will power of a <u>fly</u> on shit...
That's why the Little People sent you. Just <u>like</u> magic.
I don't believe in little floating people! THERE IS NO MAGIC!
So what? You going to help me?
WILL YOU PLEASE... please listen to me ... You know none of this is true  PARRY the Grail, the voices... Jack... There's a part of you that Come on...what are knows this isn't true. saying... I know who you are... I know who you are.. or who you were. You're acting really You don't belong on the No, no, no, no... streets. You're intelligent Jack... man....you're a teacher... Jacck!... You were a teach at Hunter College. Don't you remember?...
He knows who you are! He's afraid! I can tell!
You're totally gone, aren't you?
Isn't it great up here... He's gone now, but we had him on the run! We would've had his ass if we had horses! He's running scared!
WHO! WHO'S RUNNING?!! WHO HAVE WE BEEN CHASING!?? CAN I ASK THIS QUESTION NOW!!!
SAW WHO!!?
The Red Knight!
The Red...? You're totally gone, aren't you?
Parry...
Buddy, the days of the debutantes are ... not what they used to be.
Listen, he just needs to sleep it off. Someone will take care of him.
Who?
Well, maybe he wants to stay here. Do...do you want to stay here?
It's such a great song.
It's a classic.
Don't you think it's time to go now? Running around here during the day is one thing but at night we could be killed by a wide variety of people.
Well that's stupid. This is my park just as much as it is theirs. You think it's fair they keep us out just because they make us think we'll get killed or something?
Yes. I think that's very fair.
.....What are you doing?
Have you ever done any cloudbusting? You lie on your back and you concentrate on the clouds...and you try yo break them apart with your mind. It's wild.
You can't do this! This is New York! Nobody lies in naked in a field in New York..It's...it's too Midwestern.
Come on, try it. Ya feel the air on your body  ya little fella's flappin' in the breeze. ...everybody in the city is busy with their business and no one knows we're bare assed in the middle of it. Come on!
NO! I will not! This is nuts! I'm leaving! I mean it...this is nuts. This is too nuts...I'm leaving. I mean it!
..Ha...Little fella? I mean the man talks to invisible people  he sees invisible horses  and he's naked in the middle of Central Park. I should be surprised? I'm not surprised. I'm fucking outta my mind to even be here!
Who are you talking to Jack?
YOU'RE OUT OF YOUR FUCKING MIND!!
Bingo!
Are there any questions?
What?
Then let's begin with the story itself. It's a story of the Grail myth...And although there are several variations, my favorite begins with the Fisher King as a young boy... who had to spend a night alone in the forest to prove his courage... and during that night, he is visited by a sacred vision. Out of the fire, appears the Holy Grail  God's highest symbol of divine grace. And a voice says to the boy, "You shall be the guardian of the Grail, that it may heal the hearts of men"...But the boy was overcome ...Innocent and foolish, he was blinded by greater visions  a life ahead filled with beauty and glory, hope and power...Tears filled his eyes as he sensed his own... invincibility. A boy's tears of naive wonder and inspiration. and in this state of...radical amazement...he felt for a brief moment, not like a boy, but like God... ...And so he reached into the fire to take the Grail. And the Grail vanished. And the boy hands were left caught in the flames...leaving him wounded and ashamed at what his recklessness had lost him. When he became King, he was determined to reclaim his destiny and find the Grail... But with each year that passed, with each campaign he fought, the Grail remained lost, and this wound he suffered in the fire grew worse... He became a bitter man. Life for him lost it's reason. With each disappointment, with each betrayal... with each loss ... this wound would grow... Soon the land began to spoil from neglect and his people starved...Until finally, the King lost all faith in God's existance and in man's value...He lost his ability to love or be loved And he was so sick with experience... that he started to die. As the years went on, his bravest knights would search for the Grail that would heal their King and make them the most respected and valued men in the land, but to no avail. Pretty soon, finding the Grail became a ruthless struggle between ambitious men vying for the King's power, which only confirmed the King's worst suspicions of man, causing his wound to grow. His only hope, he thought, was death. Then one day, a fool was brought in to the King to cheer him. He was a simpleminded man... not particularly skilled...or admired... He tells the King some jokes...sing him some songs, but the King feels even worse...Finally, the fool says, "What is it that hurts you so much? How can I help?"...And the King says, "I need a sip of water to cool my throat"...So, the fool takes a cup from the bedstand, fills it with water and hands it to the King...Suddenly, the King feels a lot better. And when he looks to his hands, he sees that it was the Holy Grail the fool handed him...an ordinary cup that had been beside his bed all along...And the King asks, "How can this be?...how could you find what all my knights and wisest men could not find"? And the fool answers, "I don't know. I only knew you were thirsty."... And for the first time since he was a boy, the King felt more than a man  not because he was touched by God's glory...but rather, by the compassion of a fool.
I can't ask for her...I have to earn her.
Parry, you don't have to <u>earn</u> a woman. It's the twentieth century.
Maybe, when we get the Grail...
Well, see, I think she can help...You know women are great..they...they make homes and they..ya know, kill the livestock so the knights can go out and get Grails and...and slaughter villages with a clear head...I mean, where would Arthur be without Guinevere...
Happily married, probably.
Bad example. Just trust me. A woman who loves you keeps you going...gives you strength... Makes you feel like you can do anything...
Is that what your girlfriend does for you?
Sure...
Holdin' my penis...
<u>Parry</u>! Close your pants...
Will you stand still so I can do this!
I'm sorry....I'm just so excited. You must have felt this way when you first met Anne, huh? Where did you two meet?
In a bar called Hellfire.
Tch...how romantic. Yeah. If I wasn't already committed to Lydia, boy. Except Anne'd never go for me though. She loves you too much. And you really love her, huh?
No. But that's not the only reason people get together or..stay together.
What are the other reasons?
...I feel so much for her...I feel like something awful is going to happen.
No. Nothing bad's going to happen. Anne'll be there. I'll be there. Nothing bad will happen.
I'm still scared.
Parry, it's Lydia Sinclair  our membership winner.
I know!
Beautiful night huh?
Yeah.....Hey they're moving.... Am I doing that?
Could you help me what was the name of that girl who just came in...
What girl? I didn't notice.
Uh... she was wearing a kind of... a flouncy kind of... uh... plain...
Oh, Lydia!
Lydia. Lydia what?
God, I have no idea. She's worked here for fifteen years and I have no idea. I'll call her.
No... no... that's all right... I thought I knew her... Thanks...
Hello Lydia?
Yeah? Who is this?
Yes.
Yes well... You are a credit card holder, are you not?
Huhhuh.
Well, congratulations Lydia, because out of several thousand card holders... in conjunction with several major credit card companies...
Which ones?
All of them... Which means <u>you</u> have just won a free membership at our store on Second Avenue.
Your name was picked.
Well, I don't understand. What did you do  did you pick my name out of a hat or... or... a list?
A list.
Well  were there a lot of people in the room or just you or what?
Well there.... What's the difference?
Well, I mean... I don't know you... This has never... I've never won anything and... I don't have a VCR.
You get a VCR with the membership. ... For a short time until you get your own. Listen, why don't you come down to the store and you can check it out. See if you're interested.
Did Phyllis in accounting tell you to call me?
<u>No!</u> <u>I told you</u>! <u>You won a contest</u>!
Hello. My name is Lydia Sinclair.
Yes. Hi..Congratulations. Jack Lucas. Nice to meet you finally. This is Anne Napolitano, the owner of Video Spot.
So how do we do this?
Well..um...you get an official membership card... Just sign that and we'll laminate it right here... Parry? You want to laminate Miss Sinclair's card?...
Now what?
Uh... you... you can pick out up to ten movies...
Free?
Yes. They're free.
You know, Anne does other people too. Sort of a sideline...
How much?
Well, since you're a member, we could...
Okay... twenty dollars... When can you...
Tonight! How's tonight?
Can I ask that when you clean your hands you wipe the ink off the inside of the sink before it stains the stainless steel.
You can ask.
About dinner as a concept or about dinner with... <u>Raoul</u>?
You're so witty. I'm so jealous... I <u>need</u> to get out of here, Jack, and do something other than sit in this apartment and count how many funny lines you have per page.
You know, tomorrow's a very big day for me... It would be nice if you acted like you understood.
Fine. I'll say no.
They're putting me on film tomorrow.
Fine.
... First time in my life I'll be a voice with a body. Do you know what that means? What this could lead to?
Jack, it's a sitcom  you're not defining Pi.
I'll remember that the next time you get excited by drawing pubic hairs on raisin bran. Want some?
No, I have to work.
How unsixties of you.
I was nine in the sixties.
I used to think my biography would be JACK LUCAS  THE FACE BEHIND THE VOICE, but now it can be JACK LUCAS, THE FACE "AND" THE VOICE...or maybe just JACK  EXCLAMATION POINT...
You shouldn't hang around this neighborhood.
I... I was just leaving.
People spend a lot of hard earned money for this neighborhood. It's not fair... looking out their windows to see your ass asleep on the streets...
Yes... I... I agree...
Good. You believe this drunk?
.....Me neither.
<u>No</u>...<u>No</u> <u>please</u>...!
It's O.K...It's O.K...Lets me help you up.
NO...I WANNA GO! I WANNA GO NOW!
Come on now...You can't sit here.
NO! I want a debutante on a horse to step on me. Leave me alone!!
Isn't that awful? Poor Brenda Frazier. Poor Little Gloria. They ruined them! THEY ATE THEM ALIVE!
It was a crime.
Leave me alone...I wanna go...
I wanna go...Just let me go...
Uh...Where...where do you want to go?
A real nice place I know... Ah...can't get there! Not tonight.
Where? Maybe we can.
No...no...we can't...we can't..
Come on...maybe we can...where do you want to go?
Venice...Like Katherine Hepburn in SUMMERTIME. . ....Why can't I be Katherine Hepburn...
Can you tell me something? Did you lose your mind all of a sudden or was it a slow gradual process?
Well,... I'm a singer by trade... Summer stock...nightclub revues... that kind of thing...It used to be what I absolutely lived for...God...I can do GYPSY backwards  every part but, one night...in the middle of singing "Funny.....  it suddenly hit me... ...what does all of this really mean? That, and the fact that all my friends are dead...God, I sound like a veteran. Dad would be so proud.
Um...I've got to run. I've bee doing this all day. Are you going to be all right?
Oh please!...I was born a Catholic in Brooklyn... I've been to hell and back.... I'll be fine... ....Thanks...You're a gem.
Remember. One chorus and out.
I'm a man with a mission, Jack.
Where you comin' from?!
Uh... basement I think...
<u>I tell him no visitors</u>!!!
You a friend of Parry's?
No... He is supposed to live there?
Yeah, well... I let him stay there. What else could I do after such a tragedy?
Tragedy?
He and his wife was were at some bar ..and some nut came in with a shotgun and blew the place apart. She was a beautiful girl...She never knew what hit her.
Can I help you?
I'm... just looking for Parry...
He's not here.
So, Edwin, baby, this is Sunrise Confession time... what have you got for us?
I... I... went to this bar... this very, ya know  hardtogetin place... called Babbitt's...
Yeah, I know the place. It's one of those chic <u>yuppie</u> gathering holes.
Okay... I know but... I met this beautiful girl...
Yeah, but does she swallow, Edwin?
I think she likes me... she gave me her number, but she must work a lot cause when I call she's never home... But I think we'll go out this weekend... I've...
Yeah, Edwin, <u>sure</u>... and <u>Pinnochio</u> is a true story... <u>Edwin! Wake up!</u> This is a fairytale...
No, Jack, no, it's not... She likes me.
She gave you the old brusheroo, kiddo... Believe me  this tart will never make it to your desert plate...
She <u>likes</u> me. She said for me to call!
Parry?
He can't hear you. Hi...I'm Dr. Weintraub.... I was on duty when they brought him in...I've been going over his record... He was brought in once before I understand... ..."catatonic stupor"...condition rendered him nonverbal for a period of ...
Yeah so? The guy's beat up  he...he probably has a concussion or something, right? He'll snap out of it?
I'm afraid not ... Then again, I'm not sure. The beating's bad but it's not the problem... It seems he's.. reexperiencing the catatonia... So, like before, he could snap out it in an hour or in thirteen months or thirteen years... ....I don't know. There's no way to tell.
But..How could that happen?
Well, it's not unusual in his case... Sometimes victims of tragedies are subject to the brain's replay system. The brain never loses anything  it just stores it up and waits. A person could actually reexperience the full effect of a tragedy, long after the event took place. Are you relatives? Well, it doesn't matter. We'll take care of it. He'll have to be sent back to the same institution..
What if I was a relative?
You'd have the option to care for him at home but my advice is it wouldn't be the best thing for him. He needs hospital care. I just thought you could sign the release forms, but the city can do that. I wouldn't feel responsible in any way. There's really nothing you can do. I'm sorry.
Are you in a mood today baby? Is this one of those days when you're in ...whadda call it... an emotional abyss? Talk to me, cause I don't understand these moods.
Anne, they're MY moods. If you want to understand moods, have one of your own!
Why don't you go upstairs... take the day off. All right?...I'll cook tonight.
Well, it's funny! Whatta want from me?
It's not funny. It's... sophomoric and mindless... and dumb.
Then why the hell do we watch all the time?
Because it makes me feel good to see how not funny it is and how America doesn't know the first thing about funny which makes it easier not being a famous funny TV celebrity because that would just mean that I'm not really talented.
It happens to be a beautiful love story. Ya know, you used to like that about me. You used to say you liked that I didn't make you think so much. That we could be together and not think...
Yeah, well... suicidal paranoiacs say funny things sometimes.
I'm sorry.
I smell gas... Do you smell gas...
I can't tell you how distraught I was. All night long. What the hell happened?
I was attacked.
<u>What</u>!
Two kids tried to set me on fire.
<u>Oh my God</u>... <u>What did they do</u>! <u>My</u> <u>God</u>!!!
You were attacked. My God. Should I call a doctor! Did you call the police...
No, I'm fine... really...
You're all right... you sure...
... So... where did you sleep last night?
I... I stayed at a friend's. Listen, I 
Please... before you go on... let me tawk... okay... We've had a wonderful time together... When we first met, you said this wasn't serious and I shouldn't get serious and then you moved in and we haven't been serious. And I just wanna say that I have no regrets. None. And don't wanna have any now so I want ya to be up front with me... I want the truth. If you're seein' somebody else, let me know... You don't have to pour gasoline on yourself and light a match just to break up with me. Just tell me the truth.
I'm not seeing anyone else. I really was attacked.
Okay. ... I love you...
Oh, I used to be such a Catholic.
You still believe in God?
Oh sure... Gotta believe in God. But I don't think God made man in his own image. No. 'Cause most of... the bullshit that happens, is because of men. No, I think man was made out of the devil's image and women were created out of God  because women can have babies which is sorta like creating, and which also explains why women are attracted to men, because, lets face it, the devil is a helluva lot more interesting  I slept with a few saints and let me tell you... <u>Booooorring</u>!!!... And so the whole point of life, I think, is for men and women to get married so the devil and God can live together and, ya know  work it out... ... Not that we have to get married.
... You have a little... uh... something on your face...
Oh, I got a pimple... This stuff is supposed to blend with my skin color... Like it really works, ya know...
I tell you something, Anne. I really feel like I'm cursed.
Oh stop. Things will change. My Aunt Mary always said, there's a remedy for everything in this world except death and having no class.
I get this feeling like I'm... a magnet but I attract shit. Out of all the people in this city, why did I meet a man who's wife I killed?
You didn't kill anybody. Stop.
I wish there was some way I could... just... pay the fine and go home.
Can I have my desk please.
Hello, I'd like to speak to Lydia?
Lydia?! Lydia who!?
I don't know her last name... I'll be off in a second.
You're calling <u>Lydia</u> in <u>my</u> office. You must think I'm some dope. You fuckin' bastard... You... ... stay out all night long...
What... No... Lydia... I want to speak to... her name is Lydia... I...uh...
... I don't get a friggin' phone call. You stroll in here at noon. I got... two people out sick. Ya think I need this? I Do Not Need This!
...<u>Forget it</u>... <u>Goodbye</u>!
I was not with a woman last night. I was out with Parry.
The moron?
He's not a moron.
And who's Lydia?
Lydia is the girl Parry likes... And I thought, if I could get them together I...
What? The curse'll be lifted? <u>Will</u> <u>you please</u>!
I... You're not going to understand this.
Don't treat me like I'm stupid. It pisses me off.
All right... Sorry... I feel indebted to him.
What does that mean?
See, I told you!
Well, what the hell does that mean?
I thought... if... if I can help him in some way... you know?... get him this girl he loves... Then... maybe.... things'll start changing for me... My luck, ya know... Maybe... Forget it... It's a stupid idea.
Hello....congratulations.
And this is our other..uh...coworker.. Parry..uh...Parry....
I don't know... He's a little disgusting... Although some women go for that.
He just needs some clothes?
Well talk back. He won't bite you.
Thank you very much.
What are you two up to?
Well..everything's closed up. We thought we'd get some dinner. Say!....Anybody up for Chinese? Have you eaten? Would you like to come along?
What do you think?
I think they're made for each other. And it scares me.
You know, I can't believe I did it. You think it'll work out?
Who's knows. My Aunt Marge used to say, "some matches are made in heaven, some are made in hell and some are made in hardware stores".
Nothing it's just...I begining to understand you.
Well...I think you should feel very proud. You did a real nice thing for somebody else. I'm very proud.
You were great. Thanks alot.
So what's going on? Who's Lou again?
My agent. I called my agent.
You're kidding! What did he say?
He says if I want to get back to work, no problem. He wants me to come in and talk and... and... <u>that's</u> <u>it</u>!
<u>Whoah</u>! Oh, honey, that's terrific!
I've got to put these tapes in some kind of order... and... Oh, I should get my sports jacket cleaned... ... There's coffee if you want...
<u>You</u> made coffee?... You're going back to work <u>and</u> you made coffee?... I love this!
It's so great to see you like this, honey... I can't tell you.
Thanks.
Ya know, I'm thinkin'  with another income coming in, I would love to get a bigger place.
Ugh, these tapes are a mess. I don't know where to begin...
... I would love to start looking at least. You know, maybe a two bedroom or even, maybe the top floor of a house  like in Brooklyn or Staten Island...
... What?... You don't want to commute?
No, it's not... Come here...
What?
"I'm an incredible woman?" What is this, a death sentence?
No, I... I think we should talk about this.
You want to talk? Come on, Jack... Did I cross the line by mentioning the future or what?
No... it's just...
... Listen, so much has happened and I think it would be a good thing for both of us if we slowed things down a little.
Slowed things down? Where have I been? Have we been going fast!?
Right now, I'm just not sure about... making such definite plans.
... I'd like to focus on my career   now than I can, now that everything's all right... Parry's taken care of... and... Like I said, I feel like I know a lot more now and I don't...
First of all, let me tell you something  you don't know shit. Second of all, as far as <u>we</u> go, what time do you need? What have we been doing here, except <u>time</u>? Have I ever... ever pressured you!?
No.
No. So what time do you need? I love you  you love me  you want to get your career going, great! I'd like to be a part of it  I think I deserve that! So what do you need to figure out alone!?
You can't even give me that?! What were you gonna do, Jack?... Just gonna organize your life... ... walk out that door, move in by yourself and what  drop the news when you find somebody else? What were you planning to do, Jack?
I didn't know. I just said all I want is some time.
Bullshit! If you're going to hurt me, you hurt me now  not some long... drawn out hurt that takes weeks of my life because you don't have the balls!
All right... I'll pack my stuff tonight.
What have you been doing here! <u>Huh</u>! <u>I wanna know</u>! <u>What have you been</u> <u>doing here</u>?!
<u>Listen</u>! We both got something out of it, all right!
Oh yeah? What did I get? What did I get I couldn't've gotten from somebody with no name any night of the week? You think your company is such a treat? Your moods, your... "pain", your problems... You think you're entertaining?
Then what do you want to stay with me for?
Well! What do you want me to do  applaud?
How have you been?
Terrific. Going on alot of dates ... seeing lots of men... lots of dates..
I think.. I...I realized...I love you.
Huhhuh....You son of a bitch!
Getting your nails done is one thing but going to dinner with a bunch of strangers and <u>him</u>... She didn't even look at him.
Got any more bread crust?
I mean, I've gone out with bums, but they were gorgeous. It's the only reason to go out with a bum.
This food's delicious. You're a wonderful cook. And you have a lovely home.
Jack, he's starting a conversation...
<u>You're surprised</u>!... But I guess I just never met the right guy. Whatta gonna do?
I'm shocked. With a child bearing body like yours... ... why a man would have to be out of his mind!
Most men are.
Why this is outrageous!...
Holdin' my penis... What a lovely way of sayin' how Much ya like me...
<u>What are you, out of your mind</u>!
Yep! Right on it!
Huh...the restaurant's just around the corner here...
This will last you one year after which you have the option to renew if... you like at a membership discount.
But now it's free, right?
Yeah.
You know, I think I... ordered some just the other day.
Well did you or didn't you?
Yes! They'll be in soon.
Well, I guess I'll come back then.
I like your nails. Where did you get them done?
Ah... I do them myself. I used to work in a beauty parlor.
I've never been in an apartment above a store. You always pass them on the street but you never think anyone really lives in them.
Can I get you anything...coffee... tea...a little tequilla?
No, thank you.
Will it hurt?
That all depends on you. ...Sure you don't want a drink?
...So he says to me, "you'll never find another man like me"...I said, "please, men like you have one hand on their dicks and the other hand on their mother's leg... I said, there's the door  take a trip.
You threw him out?
My parents were divorced.
It's an awful thing, let me tell you. My Aunt used to say, "divorce is the sisterinlaw of death".
...SO...anybody special in your life?
Do I look like I have someone special?
Well, don't say it like that. It's not so...ya know, crazy an idea. You are a healthy woman... You hold a steady job. Ya not crossed eyed or anything...
Well, there's nobody special!
Fine.
I mean, it's not easy in this day and age.
What?
Meeting ... people.
Tell me about it. I've been dating longer than I've been driving. I can't believe that.
I never really...went through a... dating period.
It's a disgusting process. You haven't missed anything.
...My mother calls every week. Like a recurring nightmare. "So, have you met anyone?"..."No mom".. "So what's going to happen?"... "I don't know Mom"... I only thank God I moved out.
I can't believe you lived with her for that long. If I had to live with my mother, I'd stab myself six times.
I think some people are meant to be alone. Maybe I was a man in a former life and I used women for pleasure so now I'm paying for it  which would be fine, if I could just remember some of the pleasure parts...
I don't understand you. What is the problem?
I don't feel like I make any impression on people... At office parties I spend my time rearranging the hors d'oeuvres as people eat them, so the platters will always look full. I don't start conversations because I have no idea how to end them...I think I'm just meant to live in the background of things.
That's not true...You gotta ease up... Conversations have a life of their own. You gotta just go with it...We're having a lovely conversation.
I'm paying you.
You know, let me tell you something! I'm not that kind of person. I don't do people favors. If I talk to you it's because I want to. So we're not all ...uh...Jerri Hall...Big deal... What a boring world if we were. You do the best you can with what you got. You're not so so invisible, ya know... You want make an impression? Try this; you can be a real bitch.
Really?
Yeah!
Oh, no..I have to get home...
The nails!! Watch the nails!!... Listen, you still have to eat.
No really..I can't.
Hey? What did I tell you? Why don't you come? It's just dinner. You'll have something to tell your mother next time she calls.
Hello, John.
Colonel.
Mind if I sit down?
I hear you're not enjoying it here.
I could take it or leave it.
Seems like I'm always pulling you out of some goddamn toilet or other, doesn't it?
Am I out of here?
That depends on you. Christ, look at you. I give you this easy duty until I can get you an assignment... all you have to do is eat ice cream and watch soap operas... and you have to make it Rambo's last stand.
There were treating me like a headcase.
Hard to believe. You shoot up one little town in Oregon with a fifty caliber machine gun... one little dogpatch town... and everybody figures your wrapper's broken. No sense of humor. What did you expect? An engraved plague from the chamber of commerce?
This your stuff?
That's it. My life.
Hardcore outfit. The best I ever trained.
Those men are all dead.
You're not.
Congressional Medal of Honor.
Yeah. Big time.
Plus, what else? Two Silver Stars, four Bronze Stars, two Soldier's Medals, four Vietnamese Crosses of Gallantry and... uh, a handful of Purple Hearts.
Five. I never wanted that stuff.
What did you want?
I just wanted... I don't know... after all that... I just wanted one person, one person, to come up to me and say "you did good, John." And mean it. That's all. After all that.
You just picked that wrong war to be a hero in.
We left some people behind there, John... POWs.
This just occurred to somebody, now?
Listen up. You two are married as of now. Get used to it.
I say we tape him to a chair.
Let's do it.
Keep it clean, Rambo, or I'll nail your hide to the shed.
You got it, sir.
Who're you?
American. Come to get you out.
Man, you are one scarylooking motherfucker!
Can you walk?
I could a couple of days ago. Gonna be... stiff.
What's your name?
De Fravio. Dave De Fravio. Lieutenant... Air Force.
How long have you been setting up?
About 22 hours on site.
Nice work.
How long before you're fully on line?
Couple hours. Let me buy you a coffee.
You think they'll find any?
POWs? I don't know. But either way it'll get that subcommittee off our necks. Cream?
Black. No sugar.
The League of Families leans on Congress. Then they lean on us. Like we don't have enough to worry about in a dozen dirtwater countries. Damnit!
What's up?
Listen, Kirkhill. I'm a bit of a fifth wheel in your setup here... I thought I'd go out with the extraction team tonight. Unless you have an objection.
It's not necessary.
I know.
That's a pretty hairy ride. Full Colonels are supposed to be above that sort of thing.
I know...
Have fun.
Take your time.
Look, Colonel... we're all adults here. This is a war. A very quiet, very intense war. People get sacrificed.
Not my people.
But you're right... some people do get sacrificed. Now tell me why you pulled the plug.
You think I'm some whacko? I like to hurt people? I'm doing a job here. If I knew what's right or wrong I'd be a goddamned priest, right? So I follow directives... I do what I'm told. It's simple. If your boy had done what he was told, there wouldn't be a problem.
Don't dance me, Kirkhill. You'll be walking funny.
Look, it was a screwup, alright? They weren't supposed to find anything. We thought that camp was empty.
This mission was a scam from the word go?
Word came down... they wanted an answer. And they knew the answer they wanted: no POWs. But it had to look good. Best effort. The whole dogandpony show.
Rambo and Brewer were selected as writeoffs.
It was clean. Very clean... Rambo was a decorated Vietnam vet, a former POW himself... if he came out and said "No POWs" the subcommittee would buy it. He gets himself caught he's a private citizen, a whacko, acting on his own. If he gets proof, it gets lost somewhere between here and D.C. Airtight. But no... Rambo's gotta be a hero. Thinks he's starring in his own war movie or something. He put me in a corner. No choice.
"Terminate with extreme prejudice."
That's a crock. We don't say that. Do you have any idea the shitstorm if he'd gotten back with that guy? If it went public? The White House would have to act through channels. We're talking ransom. Four billion bucks in war reparations to Vietnam to get the others back. That's billion, Colonel. With a "B". For a few guys that've had their brains in a blender for ten years? A pain in the ass to everybody? No way. There's no way.
So there never was a Phase Two rescue team?
Of course not. You can't get approval to rescue a kitten from a tree after Tehran.
You're out of your depth, Trautman. Way out. I'm acting correctly here. Not you. Not your gungho jungle ace. It's over. Walk away.
It's not over. You made one mistake.
What that?
He's giving them a run for their money. Says here they've got two Hueys from Danang. I didn't know those dinks had Hueys.
Half their air force is our stuff. Captured.
Typical...
Sir, there's something else... a TRANSAT relay. Just came through.
What?
Um... actually, no. It looks like he shot down one of their gunships...
Christ almighty.
... and then he, uh... took the other one.
What?
He... took it.
I don't work with spooks. Not after that op in Cambodia.
I'm authorized to get you out of here. I thought that's what you wanted.
What's the job?
Classic special forces op... hit fast... in and out. Two men. Two days.
Why me?
We like you. At least the computer at Langley likes you. Pulled your file because of various factors. Service record. Area familiarity.
Where?
Not yet.
I'm not jumping blind.
Memo E7 on top will cover the details. An abandoned Vietnamese Army base in the Northcentral highlands may have a compound used as an internment camp. As you can see the intelligence is soft. These LANDSAT photos show huts... barracks. It could be anything.
What's the plan?
This operation is in two phases. Recon and rescue. You are phase one. Your twoman team will probe the site, confirm the presence of American POWs, if any, make photographic and tactical observations, then proceed to the extraction point without engaging the enemy.
We don't try to pull out any of our guys if we find them?
Negative. Absolutely not. The phase two assault team will get them out.
We just take pictures?
Don't look so disappointed. It should be hairy enough... even for you.
I didn't know you were a stick man, Rambo.
I was crossedtrained in gunships.
All this is for us?
That's right.
Alternate LZ Zulu Sierra at 0500. It says "May have heat. Don't be late. All our love."
Let's get that tent down!
Stay on your heading, Captain.
Sorry, Sir. Can't do it.
That's an order.
Sorry, Sir.
You pathetic scum.
Well, if there weren't POWs before, there are now.
I'm Rambo. This is Brewer. Her name is Co.
It means "virgin." My mother was comedian.
You really got a Masters Degree?
Sure. I only sound like fortyyear old in your language.
How do we get upriver?
I have arranged transportation. We meet soon. But I think you to be disappointed.
Why's that?
I go up to this camp two months ago. Nobody there. Empty for years.
Where did you find this clown?
I thought he was with you.
Crazy motherfucker.
How did you get started working for the spooks?
Spooks?
Intelligence work.
Oh. They talk to me at university before fall of Saigon. Make deal.
Nguyen. He twelve now. Not see him for eight years.
Where's his father?
Where's Nguyen now? What city?
Huntington Beach, California.
It's nice there. He's probably digging every minute. Got a surfboard. Breaking girls' hearts.
Nguyen is good boy.
Are you okay?
Yes. But I lose many merits in next life. Very bad.
Why'd they want us?
They heard about escaped prisoner on radio. Make deal. More than we pay.
Thanks.
Rambo. NVA coming. Pig dog Kinh say meet them here. Whole garrison from Con Cuong is out.
Let's go.
Christ. How'd you get here?
Took bus, most of way. I knew you would come here.
And how'd you sneak up like that?
Carefully. Don't want to get shot by you. Bad karma. Anyway, you need me.
I do?
You think you are... .
Invulnerable.
Invulnerabo. But you get ass kicked without me.
You try get across Laos? Get to Thailand?
Yeah. Got some business there. What are you gonna do?
Go United States. See Nguyen. Maybe teach economics. Buy Cadillac. Watch "Dynasty."
How you going to get there? You can't trust the spooks to pull you out. They'll use you up and throw you away.
I know. I go with you.
I couldn't get you in.
Yes you can.
How?
Look, Co...
Why you don't feel love? Not allowed? Dead inside, maybe? You make yourself dead already so they can't kill you? Invulnerabo? Bullshit!
What was that?
Minigun. Come on. Let's move. He's coming in on our open side.
John. My name is John.
It doesn't hurt. Why doesn't it hurt?
This clown almost blew mission security on the street. I'm not jumping with him.
Clown? Now back up there, buddy...
Ever do this from a jet?
No.
Again.
Insertion. Call in to base camp by TRANSAT. Proceed to point Tango November for rendezvous with our ground contact. Indigenous agent. Co Phuong Bao. We've been over this three times.
You stopped.
Co Phuong Bao. The guide takes us twelve klicks upriver to target at Ban... at Ban... Bo Peep. Shit!
Start over.
... to target at Ban Kia Na. We probe the site...
Ninety.
... then proceed downriver to extraction at point Echo Delta. Doyle takes us out by helicopter, we all live happily ever after and that's the last time, Rambo! I swear to Christ.
One hundred.
Gettin' old, huh?
Yeah. Second set. Let's go.
No radio source. Nothing for the bad guys to triangulate on.
Show me how it operates.
That's what I'm here for.
Show me in case you get zapped as soon as we land.
We're leaving tonight, not in a week.
Yeah. Why not?
You break your leg, I'll have to shoot you.
You read me, Brewer?
Read you.
Home on my strobe.
You okay?
Keep it down, man. I got problems.
What do you call that?
Modified M16 A2 and overunder M79 grenade launcher, with Sionics sound suppressor, Tracor starlight scope and LAC/R100 Laser sighting system.
Batteries not included.
This is stateoftheart firepower.
What's this?
ACSystem 'BigEar' telescopic mike with builtin audio processor. Can pull a whisper out of a loud cocktail party at 50 meters.
Cocktail party. Uh huh, right. Let's saddle up.
Where's your stuff?
That's it? Some C4, a map and a knife?
There's a compass in the handle.
And a beattoshit AK? Every twelveyearold in Nam's got one of those.
Exactly.
You wanna know why I stood up for this show?
No.
I was in the brig. They gave me a deal. I blew up this Colonel's golf cart with an M19. He wasn't in it or anything... it was the symbolic value. Seemed like a good idea at the time.
That's a real good reason to wind up in 'Nam.
I've seen worse places.
There are no worse places.
This place is a trip.
Buddhist monastery. Fifteenth century.
Damn! Leeches.
You fucking crazy? I need it to burn these things off.
No cigarettes.
I had it cupped.
What's this stuff on the rice?
Fermented fish sauce.
Why would they send us to a deserted camp?
Who cares? Let's just do it and get out. Go have a Jacuzzi and get laid in Bangkok. Know what I mean?
We'll check it out.
How come we didn't just drop near the camp... save this hassle?
Brewer. Does a jet make noise?
Yeah...
What's she saying?
She likes you. Says you're dinky dau.
What's that?
Powerful warrior.
Yeah. Dinkydau, that's me. Hey, Co. You wanna meet Jake the one eyed snake?
These guys look like they'd sell their mothers.
Sometimes they do. They're river pirates. Opium runners.
Pirates? No kidding?
How you doing, Brewer?
I need a vacation.
Snoring. Five, six guys. Mumbling... Vietnamese. Somebody talking in his sleep. A toilet flushing.
Guard barracks. Take some shots.
It's a guy in a cage.
American?
Can't tell. Pretty tall. He's real scrunched up in that thing.
Let me see.
Roundeye.
Alright. Home run.
Torture cage. Can't stand... can't sit... for days. Sometimes weeks.
Bastards. Let's get some shots.
That guy's not going to make it.
Nothing we can do, man.
I'm getting him out.
What? Are you crazy? We're supposed to take pictures and split. You're gonna blow the whole program.
You never been in one of those things.
I suppose you have...
It's orders! You remember... when they tell you to do something and then you do it. John Wayne is dead, man.
You take pictures and split. I'm going in.
You better take off.
Ain't you coming with us, sweet thing?
Are they going to torture us?
Yes.
What... whattaya do?
Gawd, you look awful.
You comin'?
Hold your pantyhose. Here, gimme a hand.
Can you handle the door gun?
Duck soup.
Brewer! You know what that thing's packing?
It's a Soviet MIL MI24. Probably has 12.7mm nose cannon, heatseeking rockets and wire guided missiles, plus...
Forget it.
You're gonna love it.
How much we got left in that minigun?
You guys are real... aren't you?
Huh?
Sorry, I mean... I talk to people all the time... I know a lot of them aren't there. But this is real, isn't it? You're taking me home now?
That's right, buddy.
I gotta tell you, it's just luck you guys came when you did. They move us around a lot... We only been at that camp a week. Got a smoke?
No.
What kind of raggedyass rescue you call this?
You mean the snake?
Yeah. It's not hard once you get the hang of it. In the wrist. Anyway, I did what I always do when I get one...
What's that?
Put it in the guard's barracks. Man they got pissed. They beat the crap out of me, but... it's kind of a tradition. You oughta see 'em run around.
Wow!
What just happened?
Your buddy made it out last night. The place went apeshit.
Really? How come he didn't take me?
Maybe because you're shot in the leg.
Oh, yeah. Listen, how long do they keep you in this disease hole?
Hell. This is just like fucking Star Wars, man!
Star Wars?
... and there's this guy with a black helmet and cape, right, and he's got this sword... except it's not a sword, it's light...
There's the Mekong.
What are you doing?
Terry's name should be on this wall.
So, why'd you want us to meet you here? Now?
They're watching me, see if I go to Alex.
He didn't say nothin'. Just drive.
You have a responsibility to tell me.
Knock it off!
May as well go out under my own free will, right?
Not with us in the fuckin' car!
Get control of yourself!
That's what I'm doin'!
I know what you're doing! It's alright to be scared, Carter. You don't have to prove to us how big your balls are. Not now.
I'm not afraid! I DECIDE WHEN IT'S TIME! I control my life! I control my death!
SHUT UP, BILLY!
WE DON'T NEED THIS NOW!
And don't pass on the right.
Billy! I'm gettin' a vision! You're the next one...
Hey, man, why'd you say that?!
'Cause if you say another word, I'm gonna fuckn' kill ya!
Please tell me I'm gonna get to see the Jets win the Super Bowl.
Me, right? That's why you're not saying.
Shoulda' felt up Tammy in the pool, that time...
Whatta' you whinin' about? He said I'm next.
It broke!
No one's that strong.
I'm... a friend of his. His best friend. See, his father...
I know who you are.
Cuticle lacerations.
Why would he pull at the wire if he were committing suicide?
His father's pretty fucked up with denial. Maybe he couldn't deal with the thought of an other accident... taking another son.
In Death...
... there are no accidents. No coincidencess. No mishaps. And no... escapes.
You saying Tod did kill himself?
You may not realize it, but we're all just a mouse that a cat has by its tail. Every single move we make, from the mundane to the monumental... the red light we stop at, or run; the people we have sex with, or won't with us; the airplane we ride, or walk out of... is all a part of Death's sadistic design leading to the grave.
Design?
I'm sorry we broke in.
No harm. No foul.
I got this... feeling... a weird feeling... I can't explain it...
Did you take any sedatives before boarding, or on the plane. Sleeping pills?
No. I saw it. I saw it!
I believe that... Ms. Lewton's next.
"Next?"
Yes... see, there's this... pattern... that's occuring.
Oh, you've noticed it, too?
Alex... can you promise me that no one else will die?
No... I can't. As long as I'm in here, it's outta my control.
Man, that is one George Michael notch from being gay.
Dude, get wisdom. We're about to board a seven hour flight. The toilets in coach are barely ventilated closets. What if your body wants that airplane food out of your system and you have to go torque a wicked cable and then right after you walks in Christa or Blake? You want them to associate with you with that reflexive gag and the watery sting in their eyes?
Fag.
C'mon, man, like you really thought you were gonna tittie fuck 'em over Greenland, or something?
Because of you, I gotta sit here and watch fuckin' "Stepmom."
And then the cabin banged and the left side exploded. The the whole plane... blew up. It was so real. Exactly how everything goes.
Been on many planes that blew up, have you?
Me, too. But my dad doesn't understand. When he's better; you and me, road trip to the City. Catch the Yanks.
That's a plan.
I'll remove him.
Fuck you! I'll remove myself!
You're payin' for my trip, Browning!
I wish you were on the plane!
Hope you don't think, Browning, that because my name ain't on this wall... that I owe you anything.
I don't.
All I owe is these people. To live my life to the fullest.
We're losing our favorite teacher.
Look, there's something you should all know.
Alright, Browning, you fuckin' warlock... did you know about Ms. Lewton, or what?
Why do you think I was hiding?
Is knowing going to make it easier? It makes it harder.
You get off havin' control over me. Let me choose how to deal with it.
It doesn't matter who's next... we're all on the same list.
What's your fuckin' worry? If it's not your time...? I could get nailed runnin' this red light and you all wouldn't get shit! Only me, right?
No!
You should have been next. After Lewton, you should've been next. That's the only pattern. You should be dead.
You're the fuckin' devil.
But I saved him. I intervened. Just like the plane. That's the design.
My intervention in the death of 180 survivors will cheat the design.
"Intervention?" What are you, God now?!
Of course not! Gods aren't afraid to die! Gods don't die! We do!
How would I know? You think I'm some sort of...
He's not a witch.
It's only the end of June.
Yeah, but everything's always in transition. If you focus, even now, one week into summer... you can feel Autumn coming. Almost like bein' able... to see the future.
You went there? I've wanted to go there, but I thought it was off limits.
It is. But that didn't stop me. Shouldn't stop you.
Not a likeness. It's how you make me feel, Alex.
I'm... really sorry.
Like you, the sculpture doesn't even know what, or why, it is. Reluctant to take form. And, yet, creating an absolute but incomprehensible attraction.
That's why I was there last night.
I've never dealt with death before. I wasn't alive when my grandparents died. I wish I could know. I mean, all this... could just be in our heads. Now it feels like it's everywhere.
"It?"
What if Tod... is just the first... of us?
Is that something you're "feeling?"
I don't know. I wish I could just see him... one more time, then, maybe... I would know.
Then, let's go see him!
This place?!
Doin' somethin' I'm not supposed to.
That... him?
I think. But why'd they make him up like... Michael Jackson?
That's him, but... he's not here.
Ahhh! fuck! You fucking asshole. You think this is funny, you fucking dick? Tod, if you're not dead I'm gonna fucking kill you!
Ohmygod! OHMYGOD! OHMYGOD! He's not dead?
He said Death has a design. Even before he said that I had been seeing patterns.
As in flannels and plaids?
How many died on Flight 180? From our group?
Thirtynine.
Remember the gate number?
No.
Thirtynine.
Remember the departure time?
Like... 4:25.
4:25.
Right. April 25th.
Wait. I thought you meant the time of your birth. Four/Twentyfive, as in, month and day... that's a reach.
I'm not just layin' down a bunch of math here, with this. I'm talking about indications... omens... that day, that we were meant to die. That, if, we have been aware of... would have saved everyone on the plane.
That's total bullshit. You can find death omens anywhere you want to.
I don't understand... did you see Tod die? Did it happen again, like on the plane?
No, but it might as well be the same thing. This was a message... from someone, or something... hinting... at the design.
Alex, on the plane... you must have experienced... some kind of hyper awareness. But here... you're suggesting Tod's death... and maybe our own... will happen because of... an active Presence.
Most kids do, I guess.
Most kids never have it happen.
Those guys are probably fifteen minutes away.
No.. I mean, I don't have anything on me. This won't be safe.
Nothing is... anymore.
I can't go home. After Lewton's, they'll be after me.
We're takin' you to a cabin in the woods, it's only a couple miles from my house. Keep off the highways, they'll be lookin' for us.
Billy told the F.B.I. he saw you runnin' away from her house.
They blame me for everything. Her, Tod, the plane crash...
Stop the car!
Let us out!
Can't you open the door?!
Easy, Billy, just open it.
Carter, get out!
Don't do it! Don't do it!
Get out! Get out of the car! Get out of the fuckin' car!
Get out! Get out of the car!
Police are coming.
That's why It skipped Carter and went to the next one in the path of the explosion; Billy.
You know what to do.
No! No! Don't!
When I do this.. it'll have skipped you... and it'll all be over.
Damn, it really hurts, Mom.
I know, we'll be there soon.
What on Earth are they doing?
Who am I, David Blane?
You're all certifiable, you know that? I can't believe I've been listening to this crap. Come on, Tim, let's go outside.
Jeez, Mom, stop trippin'.
Mom?
Yeah?
You think... You think those guys were b.s.ing us today or what?
You think the tooth fairy's gonna come tonight? I'm thinkin' like fifteen bucks.
Nice try, kiddo.
Thanks, Dad. I'll call you.
You have everything, Kimberly? Credit card, cell phone, AAA card?
Relax, Dad. It's Daytona, not Mongolia.
FixAflat? Road flares? Sunblock? Mace?
I know this is the first time we've been apart since. But everything's gonna be okay.
I know, honey. I just 
Your mother would have been so proud of the way you've handled yourself through all of this...
I know, Dad.
Kimberly? It's Dad.
Hey, Dad. What's up?
Your car's leaking either transmission or brake fluid. I want you to have it checked ASAP at a gas station.
You got it, Dad. I'll call you if I have a problem.
I mean it. Take care of it.
I will, Dad. Bye, luv you.
I know it's crazy, but I'm really scared for the others. I've got this terrible feeling.
What feeling?
That it's not over yet.
I'm sorry. I'm just so happy that you're safe.
I love you too, Dad. Goodnight.
There were so many times I didn't think I could last another day. I can't even tell you some of the things I thought about.
I used to have those feelings, too. But that's when I'd think of Mom. Her strength...and courage. And I'd pray that maybe I'd grow up to be as brave as she was. And the bad thoughts would go away.
I don't know what I'd do if I lost you.
More than that. All the songs on the radio were about car crashes. Some kid's banging toy cars together. She was dialing her cell phone with her headset on. His car was leaking oil all over the road.
Hey, don't be knockin' the Chevette.
The best way to get to Yankee Stadium is Route 18.
I don't know what's weirder, the dialing a wrong number part or that Death would set you up nine months in advance.
Can I ask you a question?
Sure.
When I die. Is it gonna hurt?
I...I don't know.
And you're gonna die after me, right?
I guess so.
Would you take these? And if I die... Could you throw all my drugs out? Paraphernalia, porno, you know... Anything that would break my mom's heart.
Want me to drive?
No, I'm good.
This trip better be worth it. What's the guygirl ratio again?
Get ready to smile, five guys per girl.
I can live with thaaaa 
What's the chance of finding a nice mature guy once we get to Daytona?
How does a nice mature fuck sound?
What is it? What are you?
There's going to be a huge accident! Everyone's gonna die. All of us! I saw it!
What is it? What are you?
There's going to be a huge accident! Everyone's gonna die, all of us, I saw it!
Relax, you need to chill the fuck out.
Highway to Hell, Highway to Hell.
For Christ sakes girl, take a breath.
What's going on here?
There's going to be a pile up. Logs. Bodies everywhere. I saw it happen. It happened.
THAT's the truck that's going to kill everyone!
Alright miss, calm down. I just need this lane open. I need you to pull your vehicle onto the shoulder!
You're not listening to me! You have to do something!
Tell me again how it started.
Like I said, it was like I was there. I remember everything. The sounds of the crashes, the smells, the look on Shaina's face...
Do you remember what triggered it all?
The log truck...and everybody I guess. Everyone was driving like a maniac. And somehow I knew something horrible was going to happen, even before it did.
Billboards about accidents. Kids yelling "pile up" for no reason. It all felt...just wrong. Just like...
Like what?
You mean Alex Browning.
...My Premonition was just like his.
I tried calling last night but your father 
Evan Shaeffer's dead.
I know. I've gotten calls all morning from everyone who was on the onramp. We're all meeting at my apartment tonight.
Then you believe all this?? That Death is working off a list?
I didn't. Until I was dispatched to clean up one of the Flight 180 survivors.
Clean up? I don't...
Pigeons... It's a sign! If Clear's right about the order, then Nora and Tim are going to be attacked by Pigeons!
I'm not following you 
They're next on the list. We have to find them.
Turn around. The cleaning woman said they're at the dentist's. 14th and Main.
Hold on.
Nora's not coming. She refuses to leave her son.
We have to tell her she's in danger!
I did. And right now, I don't think she cares.
This is cheery.
Who is this guy, anyway?
New life defeats death? Follow the signs? Where the hell did you find that guy?
Yeah, I thought he was supposed to be helpful.
It throws the entire Death list out of whack. And a new list has to be rewritten from scratch. We all start over with a clean slate.
It sounds all well and good, but what if we're wrong?
Shit, I don't have her number. She was never interviewed. She took off right after the accident.
How are we going to find her? There must be thousands of white vans in this state.
Hey, I'm a police officer, remember?
Whoa, nine months?
Are you thinking what I'm thinking?
Guys, let's not panic. Isabella's safe.
How do you know?
You said she was going to drive into a lake. How can she when she's in protective custody?
Stop it, don't move him!
He can't breathe damn it. I think his lung's collapsed!
Um, Kimberly? This is a neighborhood. You may wanna slow it down.
Don't worry. Nothing can happen to us.
I wasn't worried about us.
Kalarjian?
I think a nurse named Kalarjian is going to choke Isabella to death!
Shouldn't we pull over?
No time. Keep going. I wouldn't know how to explain any of this anyway.
Are you okay? You just face planted!
I know how it feels to be dead.
But it's over. Isabella's baby was the key. You saw her die and everything, right?
I don't...what if I made a mistake?
Impossible. She was on the onramp.
I'm not sure... I don't think Isabella was ever destined to die in the pile up.
Then what's the premonition of the lake supposed to mean?
You can't cheat destiny. I know what I have to do to save us. I have to die.
That's crazy. You can't give up now. We can still fight this thing.
Welcome back. We did it. For real.
I know. I can feel it too.
For God's sake, leave him alone, Dad.
Yeah, don't make me cite you for harassment.
First I'm stuck with Jury Duty, now this nonsense.
Yeah, I hate to love and leave ya, but I've been over this XFiles shit since the sixth season.
This can't be happening. My career's at a peak, I finally met a cute guy, I just bought a new house...
Just shut the fuck up and maybe you'll live.
Last July I dialed a wrong number and got a radio station by accident. They asked me what number means "good luck" in Jewish.
Eighteen. And it's "Hebrew".
Anyway, I guessed it right and won these.
Here's what I don't get. For nine months, Death does all this shit to make sure I win these tickets and end up on Route 18 at exactly the right time for the pile up...
Yeah?
But why single me out? What am I in the great scheme of things? You'd think I stepped off Flight 180 or something... Fucking weird, man.
I got that beat. So like, last May, I was supposed to stay at this cheesy bed and breakfast in Pennsylvania. There was a major gas leak no one knew about and all the guests suffocated during the night.
Yeah, so what happened?
I never mad it. The Greyhound bus I was on splattered some chick all over the road and we had to stop.
What?
I'm Officer Burke. I'm looking for an Isabella Cruz.
Are you Jorge Cruz?
Maybe. What's this about?
May we come in?
No. What's this about?
We had a fight. Some things got broken, the dog went crazy, she left me. Wouldn't say where she was going.
What was the fight about?
Take a guess.
Does she have a cell phone? A way we can contact her?
She did.
What do you mean "grand theft auto?" This is insane.
Hopefully the district judge can straighten it all out by Monday morning.
Jorge. When I get out of here I'm going to sue his cheating ass off.
Damn, they always stick me with the clunker.
Take my van!
Please. It's not going to wait.
I've got to stop and help those people.
Do you want to deliver this baby?
Tell me you didn't start up on that Flight 180 shit again. Did you?
Of course not. That would be irresponsible and unprofessional.
Look, you weren't there. It was weird. She knew that log truck was gonna cause an accident, she knew. Never mind.
I thought we were finished with this bullshit. This is police work, not the psychic Hot Line.
You've made your point.
Good. Cause we just got some new info and I don't need you getting freaky on me.
What?
Evan Shaeffer's dead. Guess he wasn't as lucky as we thought.
Dano, shouldn't we go back and help your mother?
Blow me.
Calm down, Kimmy. It's not drugs, just weed.
Yeah, you should have specified.
A Trans Am. That shit went out with New Kids on the Block.
Yeah. Who does he think he is? Knight Rider?
Who?
Dano, shouldn't we stop and help your mother?
Blow me. Yellow means go, Kimberly.
Dano, shouldn't we stop and help your mother?
Blow me. Yellow means go, Kimmy.
The only reason he was on Route 18 was because he own the lottery and had to collect the winnings.
That lucky bastard.
What about the rest of you? Kimberly, you were driving to Daytona. Was Route 18 your first choice?
I had tickets to go, but one day I'm in Paris, trippin' on acid, sippin' lattes an' such, and this dude gets whacked by a falling sign.
Carter.
Freaked me out so bad I hid in a shopping cart for four hours. 'Course, missed the show...
What about you, Kimberly? Did you anyone from Flight?
Jury duty? That's randomly selected by social security numbers.
Random, sure.
What, you think Death planned for each of us to die in the pile up weeks ago? You're nuts.
Um, Clear? I'm sorry...about before. I...
Your entire world view just went out the window. I couldn't expect a religious conversation overnight. We'll get through this. I promise.
I'm not sure I understand.
Being alive after our time caused an outward ripple  a rift in Death's design.
So if you never got off the plane, none of us would be alive in the first place.
That's why Death is working backwards. It's tying up all the loose ends, sealing the rift once and for all This chapter of the screenplay contains scene that do not appear or occur elsewhere in the final movie. In order to maintain the integrity of the screenplay, it has not been edited.
A mortician. He seemed to know a hell of a lot more about death than he ever told us.
Should we knock?
He probably already knows we're coming.
Remember the onramp? There was a pregnant woman in a white delivery van.
Holy shit. He said "only new life can defeat death." If she gives birth to a baby that was never meant to be born, a brand new soul that was never part of Death's Design...
Make sure all these people will be at the meeting tonight.
Taken care of.
Here we go. The vehicle's a delivery van registered to Jorge and Isabella Cruz. And Christ, there's almost a dozen domestic disturbance complaints on these two.
We need to hurry.
Then the only way to survive is to get to the hospital and protect Eugene and Isabella for as long as we can.
If only Alex and I had done that with the others, Alex might still be...
A guard grabbed me before I could find Eugene.
Don't sweat it. It's over.
She had the baby?
Kimberly Burroughs, eh? What do you want?
I thought...I thought you might be able to help me.
Yeah, how?
I had a premonition about the Route 18 pile up... I saved some people. And now I think Death is after me.
Nice work. Maybe if you're real lucky, you'll wind up in here with me. But I doubt you'll survive that long.
It's not just about me. Someone I saved died last night in a freak accident. What if the others are in danger, too?
Well, if you put them on the list, they're already tits up.
What list?
Death's list. The precise order you're going to die in.
The survivors of Flight 180 died in the exact order they were originally meant to die in the plane crash. That was Death's original design.
Exact order? Then I'm next! I was meant to die with my friends, so I'm next!
Officer Burke pulled me away from the crash that killed my friends.
Congratufuckinglations. That makes you last to go. But don't worry, once the others are dead, it'll come back for you. Always does.
That still doesn't make sense. You said you die in the same order you were originally meant to. But Evan Shaeffer died last in my premonition, not first.
That's good. Get all your tears out now, you'll need your eyes. For the signs.
Signs?
If you have the same power as Alex, you'll be seeing signs soon. When you see anything creepy or ominous, an inyourface irony kinda thing? Don't ignore it. It usually means the difference between life and death.
The songs on the radio. But wait. I don't understand. Why is this even happening to me?
That's what Alex used to ask himself right up until...
I didn't beat it; I hid from it. If you were smart you'd put a down payment on a burial plot and say goodbye to the dog, because what little life you have left is over as you know it. Don't make new friends, don't fall in love, and don't ever bother trying to save others. That's the worst killer of them all.
How can you say that? What kind of monster are you?
The second one just dies. A 16 year old kid.
I hope you're ready for this.
You have to tell us now.
I...I...
I was driving a white van. It must've gone out of control because it crashed into a lake and I drowned. It was...horrible.
You were there?
I can practically taste the water in my throat. And something else. The smell of flowers...
Then it wasn't just a sign. It was a premonition?
Please, what else could it mean?
So if you give us the pregnant lady's number, we can warn her about the lake and she'll live long enough to have the baby.
So let's do it.
What about that?
How you doing in there, hero?
What are you doing? You're going to kill us!
No. If anyone dies from a crash now, it'll be me. But I can't die if Eugene and Isabella are still alive. I'm last on Death's list.
Are you crazy? What makes you think you'd survive?
What happened when Eugene tried to kill himself out of turn?
Six duds in a row.
And when it was Rory's turn to die, and Thomas was in the way?
This makes no sense. Isabella was supposed to crash her van into a lake. Could we have altered her destiny when we had her arrested?
I don't think so. Alex's premonitions happened exactly as he saw them no matter how much we tried to change it.
What did you see? What am I looking for?
No, it's not here. This one was different. More like the pile up and the van going into the lake.
Another premonition?
Yes. I was in a hospital. There was screaming... A nurse was choking me. I couldn't tell what she looked like, but the name tag was right in my face. Kalarjian.
What do you want me to do?
Speed up.
Yeah, fuck 'em. No offense.
What did you see?
I was dead. And came back to life. An EEG machine. Where's Eugene?
No! It can't be.
I have to save Eugene!
Raymond K. Hessel. 1320 SE Benning, apartment A. A small, cramped basement apartment.
How'd you know?
They give basement apartments letters instead of numbers. Raymond, you're going to die.
Is this a picture of Mom and Dad?
Yesssss...
Your mom and dad will have to call kindly doctor soandso to dig up your dental records, because there won't be much left of your face.
Please, God, no...
SSStuff.
"Stuff." Were the midterms hard?
Biology, mostly.
Why?
I... I don't know...
What did you want to be, Raymond K. Hessel?
Animals.
Yeah ... animals and sss 
Stuff. That means you have to get more schooling.
Too much school.
Would you rather be dead?
No, please, no, God, no!
Who told you motherfuckers you could use my place?
We have a deal worked out with Irvine.
Irvine? Irvine's at home with a broken collarbone.
He don't own this place, I do. How much money's he getting for this?
There is no money.
Really?
It's free to all.
Ain't that something?
Yes, it is.
Look, stupid fuck, I want everyone outta here now!
You're welcome to join our club.
Did you hear what I just said?!
You and your friend.
What are you doing?!
Pleeeeeease!
Okay! Okay, fuck it! Use the basement! Get off me!
We need some towels, Lou. We need replacement light bulbs.
Alright, Christ! Fucking let me go!
Thank you. Thank you, sir...
Let go of me!!
It's what he would have wanted, sir.
What he wanted? Look... look at him. Look at him! What does he want? This is a person. This is not a cog in your machine...
But, this is Project Mayhem.
No, no. This is a man  this man has a name...
But, in Project Mayhem, we have no names.
No! Wrong! This man's name is Robert Paulson.
Robert Paulson?
Robert Paulson is dead. He's dead, because of you...
His name is Robert Paulson!
No!
Who is this?
Maintenance.
Listen, something is going to happen, something terrible...
Very good, Sir.
Excuse me?
Don't worry about us, sir. We're solid.
Now wait, there's been a mixup. Everything's changed...
You told me you'd say that.
Abort the plan.
You told me you'd say that, too.
Did I tell you I'd call you a fascist dickhead?!
Well, sir, you said you might.
One minute. This is the beginning. We're at ground zero. Maybe you should say a few words, to mark the occasion.
... i... ann....iinn.. ff....nnyin...
It's getting exciting now.
That old saying, how you always hurt the one you love, well, it works both way.
We have front row seats for this Theater of Mass Destruction. The Demolitions Committee of Project Mayhem wrapped the foundation columns of ten buildings with blasting gelatin. In two minutes, primary charges will blow base charges, and those buildings will be reduced to smoldering rubble. I know this because Tyler knows this.
Look what we've accomplised. Thirty seconds.
Somehow, I realize all of this  the gun, the bombs, the revolution  is really about Marla Singer.
Two, equal parts gasoline and diet cola. Three, dissolve kittylitter in gasoline until the mixture is thick.
Pardon me?
This is how I met 
Tyler Durden.
You know why they have oxygen masks on planes?
No, supply oxygen?
Oxygen gets you high. In a catastrophic emergency, we're taking giant, panicked breaths...
What do you do, Tyler?
What do you want me to do?
I mean  for a living.
Why? So you can say, "Oh, that's what you do."  And be a smug little shit about it?
You see, when you travel, everything is small, selfcontained
The spork. I get it. You're very clever.
Thank you.
How's that working out for you?
What?
Being clever.
Well, uh... great.
Keep it up, then. Keep it right up.
You buy furniture. You tell yourself: this is the last sofa I'll ever need. No matter what else happens, I've got the sofa issue handled. Then, the right set of dishes. The right dinette.
This is how we fill up our lives.
I guess so.
And, now it's gone.
All gone.
Could be worse. A woman could cut off your penis while you're asleep and toss it out the window of a moving car.
There's always that.
I don't know, maybe I'm wrong. Maybe it's a terrible tragedy.
...no ...no ...
I mean, you did lose a lot of nice, neat little shit. The trendy paper lamps, the Eurotrash shelving unit, am I right?
But maybe, just maybe, you've been delivered.
Delivered from Swedish furniture.
Delivered from armchairs in obscure green stripe patterns.
Delivered from Martha Stewart.
Delivered from bullshit colors like "Cobalt," "Ebony," and "Fuchsia."
Insurance'll cover it.
Oh, yeah, you gotta start making the list.
What list?
The "now I get to go out and buy the exact same stuff all over again" list. That list.
I don't... think so.
This time maybe get a widescreen TV. You'll be occupied for weeks.
Well, I have to file a claim...
The things you own, they end up owning you.
Don't I?
Do what you like.
God, it's late. I should find a hotel...
A hotel?
Yeah.
So, you called me up, because you just wanted to have a drink before you... go find a hotel?
I don't follow...
We're on our third pitcher of beer. Just ask me.
Huh?
You called me so you could have a place to stay.
No, I...
Why don't you cut the shit and ask if you can stay at my place?
Would that be a problem?
Is it a problem for you to ask?
Can I stay at your place?
Yes, you can.
Thank you.
You're welcome. But, I want you to do me one favor.
What's that?
I want you to hit me as hard as you can.
What?
I want you to hit me as hard as you can.
They're called "cigarette burns."
It's called a "changeover." The movie goes on, and nobody in the audience has any idea.
Why would anyone want this shitty job?
It affords him other interesting opportunities.
 Like splicing single frames from adult movies into family films.
In reel three, right after the courageous dog and the snooty cag  who have celebrity voices  eat out of a garbage can, there's the flash of Tyler's contribution...
Onefortyeighth of a second. That's how long it's up there.
No one really knows that they've seen it. But they did.
A nice, big cock.
Only a hummingbird could have caught Tyler at work.
He was the guerrilla terrorist of the food service industry.
Don't watch. I can't if you watch.
... Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah.
He farted on meringue; he sneezed on braised endive; and, with creme of mushroom soup, well...
Go ahead. Say it.
You get the idea.
I don't know about this.
I don't know, either. I want to find out. I've never been hit, have you?
No. That's a good thing, isn't it?
I don't want to die without any scars. How much can you really know about yourself if you've never been in a fight? Come on... you're the only person I've ever asked.
Me?
Why not you? I'm letting you go first. Do it.
This is crazy.
Alright, go crazy. Let 'er rip.
Where do you want it? In the face?
Surprise me.
Shit. Sorry. That didn't count.
Like hell. That counted.
How do you feel?
Strange.
But a good strange.
Is it?
We've crossed the threshold. You want to call it off?
Call what off?
The fight.
What fight?
This fight, pussy.
If you could fight anyone... one on one, whoever you wanted, who would you fight?
Anyone?
Anyone.
My boss, probably. Who would you fight?
My dad. No question.
Oh, yeah. I didn't know my dad. Well, I knew him, till I was six. He went and married another woman, had more kids. Every six years or so he'd do it again  new city, new family.
He was setting up franchises. My father never went to college, so it was really important that I go.
I know that.
After I graduated, I called him long distance and asked, "Now what?" He said, "Get a job." When I turned twentyfive, I called him and asked, "Now what?" He said, "I don't know. Get married."
Same here.
A generation of men raised by women. I'm wondering if another woman is the answer we really need.
Where's your car?
What car?
I don't know how Tyler found the house, but he'd been there for half a year.
The previous occupant had been a bit of a shutin.
Hum.
What?
Oh, a new riot control grenade... "...the successful combination of concussive, 3000 footcandle flash blasts and simultaneous highvelocity disbursement of...blah, blah, blah..."
"I am Joe's Lungs." It's written in first person. "Without me, Joe could not take in oxygen to feed his red blood cells." There's a whole series  "I am Joe's Prostate."
"I get cancer, and I kill Joe."
What are you reading?
Soldier of Fortune. Business Week. New Republic.
Showoff.
A guy came to fight club for the first time, his ass was a wad of cookie dough. After a few weeks, he was carved out of wood.
If you could fight any celebrity?
Alive or dead?
Doesn't matter.
Hemingway. You?
Shatner. William Shatner.
Fight club became the reason to cut your hair short and trim your fingernails.
Any historical figure.
Okay... Ghandi.
Good answer.
You?
Abe Lincoln. Big reach. Skinny guys fight till they're burger.
Unbelievable, huh?
He was obviously able to handle it.
I mean, this girl... uh, you're not into her or anything... ?
No. Not at all.
You're sure?
Yeah, I'm sure.
Good. This chick was up on the table with her legs in the stirrups before the doctor even walked in the room. The things that she said... I've never heard a woman talk like that...
You're okay with this?
I'm fine.
She is a wild, twisted bitch. Stay away from that one.
Oh, and my pace is more librarians.
Hey... don't knock librarians.
Marla doesn't need a lover. She needs a case worker.
She needs an exorcist. This isn't love. This is sportfucking.
She'd invaded my support groups, now she's invading my home.
Listen... do me a favor... sit here a minute...
What?
You've gotta understand something about me. I have a little rule, okay? Don't ever talk to her about me. Ever. I can't stand that kind of shit.
If you ever say anything about me or about what happens here in this house, to her or anyone  I will find out. And you'll never see me again. Promise me.
Okay.
Promise you won't.
Yes, I promise.
Promise?
I said I promise!
That was three times you promised.
You want to finish her off?
Uh... nah...
Huh?
"The liberator who destroyed my property has realigned my paradigm of perception."
Shhhhhh! I don't know what to make of this, sir, I really don't...
You get rid of her.
Don't mention me.
What is this place?
A liposuction clinic.
As the fat renders, the tallow floats to the surface. Remember the crap they taught you in Boy Scouts.
Hard to imagine you in Boy Scouts.
This clear layer in glycerin. We'll mix it back in when we make the soap.
Tyler's kiss was a bonfire on the back of my hand.
Look at your hand.
Guided meditation worked for cancer, it could work for this.
Stop it. This is your pain  your burning hand. It's right here. Look at it.
I was going to my cave to find my power animal.
I... I think I understand. I think I get it...
No, what you're feeling is premature enlightenment.
This is the greatest moment of your life and you're off somewhere, missing it.
No, I'm not...
Shut up. Our fathers were our models for God. And, if our fathers bailed, what does that tell us about God?
I don't know...
Listen to me. You have to consider the possibility that God doesn't like you, he never wanted you. In all probability, He hates you. This is not the worst thing that can happen...
It isn't... ?
We don't need him...
We don't... ?
... Marla ... ?
Fuck damnation. Fuck redemption. We are God's unwanted children, with no special place and no special attention, and so be it.
No thanks, I quit.
You quit?
Yeah. Where you headed?
Work. Going to work.
What... ?
Nothing. Do what you like.
Six months advance pay. Six months!
Fucking sweet.
Okay, and... and...
There's fight club in Delaware City.
I heard. Local 15, Monday nights.
Local 8 just started in Penns Grove. And, Bob said he was at fight club in Newcastle last week.
Newcastle? Did you start that one?
I thought you did.
What are we doing?
Homework assignment.
What is it?
Tyler...
An expired community college student ID card. What did you used to study, Raymond K. Hessel?
I asked you what you studied.
Tell him!
I feel sick.
Imagine how he feels.
Hey.
Hey.
Where did you go, PsychoBoy?
I felt like destroying something beautiful.
Something on your mind?
No.
Why wasn't I told about "Project Mayhem?"
What should I have told you?
Why wasn't I involved from the beginning? You and I started fight club together.
Fight club was the beginning. Now it's out of the basements and there's a name for it  Project Mayhem.
Is this a needlepoint club? Is it about you and me?
You know what I mean.
What do you want? A statement of purpose... ?
Look...
Should I Email you? Should I put this on your "action item list?"
I want to know 
What do you want to know about Project Mayhem?
This does not belong to us. We are not the leaders. We are not special.
What are you doing?!
We are the allsinging, alldancing crap of the world. We are all part of the same compost heap...
Tyler...
What the hell ... ?!
You choose your level of involvement. I won't make decisions for you.
I'm not asking you to.
You're asking questions that don't have answers. You know just as much about Project Mayhem as anybody else.
I don't think that's true.
I don't know! Nothing!
If you died right now, how would you feel about your life?
I would feel nothing about my life? Is that what you want to hear?!
I want to hear the truth.
Fuck my life. Fuck fight club. Fuck you and fuck Marla. I'm sick of this. How's that?
Why do you think I blew up your condo?
What?
Hitting bottom isn't a weekend retreat! It's not a seminar! You have to forget everything you know, everything you think you know  about life, about friendship, about you and me.
What are you talking about?
Nothing.
This conversation...
... is over.
... is over.
You're too young. Sorry.
Wait a minute...
"Too young?"
If the applicant is young, we tell him he's too young. Old, too old. Fat, too fat.
"Applicant?"
If the applicant waits at the door for three days without food, shelter or encouragement, then he can enter and begin training.
"Training?" Tyler...
Four in Milwaukee.
What's this all about, Tyler?
And, we're definitely filling a void in the rural South.
Why do people think I'm you?
You broke your promise. You talked to her about me.
Why do people think I'm Tyler Durden?
Why did you do that?
Answer me, Tyler.
Why do people think anything?
I don't know! Tell me!
People think that you're me, because you and I happen to share the same body.
What... ?
Is this really news to you?
What are you talking about... ?
Sometimes I control it, and you imagine yourself watching me...
The first rule of fight club is  you don't talk about fight club.
And, sometimes you control it...
He's not here! Tyler's not here anymore! He's gone away!
You can see me and hear me, but no one else can...
Oh, yeah. I didn't really know my Dad...
But, when you fall asleep, I do things without you...
There! Happy? I asked for one thing from you... one simple promise. Now look what you've done!
This isn't possible...
We're going to have to do something about Marla...
What... what are you saying?
It's okay. We okay... a little codependent, sure, but...
No! This isn't true. We... we were around other people, together, both of us...
You never talked to me in front of anyone else.
Wrong, wrong  what about the car crash... the two guys in the backseat?
What about them? They're lunatics.
You took me to the house.
The house is rented in your name.
You have jobs.
Night jobs  while you were sleeping.
What about Marla?
What about Marla?
She's... you... you're fucking her.
Um, well... technically, no.
You could be standing under 37 stories of steel and concrete with a 150 gallons of nitroglycerin strapped to the support... oh, maybe it couldn't be...
You... you can't be serious about this.
What a ridiculous thing to say.
I can't let you...
...go through with this? What are you going to do?
I'm going to...
...stop me?
I'm not going...
...to let this happen!
Stop finishing...
...your sentences! They're our sentences. Get your mind around that.
What are you doing running through the streets in your underpants? We both use that body.
Since when is Project Mayhem about murder?
The buildings were evacuated thirty minutes ago. Everything's proceeding exactly as planned.
You don't know that. There could still be people inside.
I wouldn't be doing that. Unless you know which wires, in what order...
If you know, I know.
If I'm wrong, we're both dead..
This is not about martyrdom.
I'm pulling the green wire.
Green? Did you say green?
Yes...
Don't pull the green wire. Pull anything but the green wire.
Fuck you.
I'm serious. That's the wrong one.
I've got everything. The bombs. The army. I've got Marla.
Bob is dead, Tyler. The police blew a hole in his head. Was that part of your plan?
Bob was a grown man. In any great struggle, there will be casualties. Wouldn't that be implicit in the name? Project "Mayhem."
Fuck your struggle. I want out.
You want out?
I quit.
Not an option, for the most obvious of reasons. You need to get with the program. Seven minutes. Let's get out of here.
Tyler...
What?
Defuse the bomb.
Ask me nicely.
Defuse the bomb, please.
Defuse the bomb?
Yes.
One minute.
I think this is about where we came in.
This is the beginning. We're at ground zero. Maybe you should say a few words, to mark the occasion.
i... ann....iinn.. ff....nnyin...
Can't you call it off... ?
It's out of our hands. This is it.
Please...
Fifteen seconds now. Can you see alright? 10... 9... 8....
What the fuck  ?
Paraffin.
What?
Paraffin. Your merry band mixed the nitro with paraffin. I saw it floating in the bomb.
Damn it! Goddamn it...
Not exactly according to plan.
Do we have to do everything ourselves?!
NO...
Proceed with remote detonation.
How'd you do that?! You're a fucking figment of my imagination... you're psychogenic fugue state...
Fuck that, maybe you're my hallucination.
Why... why... why... ?
Why what?
Why can't I get rid of you? Why can't I just wish you away?
You need me.
No, no, I don't. I thank you, I really do. Thank you, but I don't need you anymore.
Look, I can be selfish, I know that. I'm not blind to my own failings...
Noooo, please...
From now on, we'll share Marla. We've been spending too much time apart...
... no, no, no...
No more running off without you. From here on out, we do it together.
Why are you doing this?!
I'm doing this for us.
Please understand... I've gotten all I can from this, Tyler.
If I leave, you will be right back where I found you...
I swear on my life, I won't...
You will. You know you will.
What are you doing?
What have you left for me?
Why do you want to do that? Why do you want to put that gun in your mouth?
Not my mouth. Our mouth.
Why are you going with this, Ikea boy?
It's the only way to get rid of you...
Do something for me.
What?
Appreciate something.
What?
Look at me...
What?
My eyes are open.
Tonight, we're going to open the green door  the heart chakra...
I wasn't really dying, I wasn't host to cancer or parasites; I was the warm little center that the life of this world crowded around.
...And you open the door and you step inside. We're inside our hearts. Now, imaging your pain as a white ball of healing light. That's right, the pain itself is a ball of healing light.
 But, in here, in everyone, there's the squint of a fiveday headache. Yet they forced themselves to be positive. They never said "parasite;" they said "agent." They always talked about getting better.
Okay, everyone.
If I did have a tumor, I'd name it Marla. Marla...the little scratch on the roof of your mouth that would heal if only you could stop tonguing it, but you can't.
Now, find your power animal.
Tell the other person how you feel.
You're a tourist. I saw you at melanoma, tuberculosis and testicular cancer.
Throwers don't worry about ticking. Modern bombs don't tick.
Excuse me? "Throwers?"
Baggage handlers. But when a suitcase vibrates, the throwers have to call the police.
My suitcase was vibrating?
Nine time out of ten, it's an electric razor. But, every once in a while ... ...it's a dildo. It's airline policy not to imply ownership in the event of a dildo. We use the indefinite aricle: "A dildo." Never "Your dildo."
I had everything in that bag. My C.K. shirts... my D.K.N.Y. shoes...
Yeah, uh huh... yeah? Oh...
How have you been?
... You know me?
Is this a test, sir?
Yes... it's a test.
You were in here last Thursday night.
What?
You were standing right where you are now, asking how good our security is. It's tight as a drum.
Who do you think I am?
Is this part of the test?
You're the one who did this to me. You're Mr. Durden, sir. Tyler Durden.
Please return your seatbacks to their full upright and locked position.
Hello?
Who's this?
Tyler?
Who's this?
Uh... I'm sorry. We met on the plane. We had the same briefcase. I'm... you know, the clever guy.
Oh, yeah.
I just called a second ago. There was no answer. I'm at a payphone.
I starsixtynined you. I never pick up my phone. What's up?
Well... let me see... here's the thing...
... and you come home to this.
You fucking slut!!
We need to talk.
Sure.
I'm on to you. You're a faker. You aren't dying.
What?
Okay, in the Sylvia Plath philosophy way, we're all dying. But you're not dying the way Chloe is dying.
And I saw you practicing this...
Practicing what?
Telling me off. Is it going as well as you hoped... ? "... Mr. Taylor."
I'll expose you.
Go ahead. I'll expose you.
Why are you doing this?
It's cheaper than a movie, and there's free coffee.
These are my groups. I was here first. I've been coming for a year.
A year? How'd you manage that?
Anyone who might've noticed either died or recovered and never came back.
I... I don't know. I guess... when people think you're dying, they really listen, instead...
 Instead of just waiting for their turn to speak.
Yeah.
It becomes an addiction.
Really?
Look, I can't cry with a faker present.
Candystripe a cancer ward. It's not my problem.
Please. Can't we do something... ?
We'll split up the week. You can have lymphoma, tuberculosis and 
You take tuberculosis. My smoking doesn't go over at all.
I think testicular cancer should be no contest.
Well, technically, I have more of a right to be there than you. You still have your balls.
You're kidding.
I don't know  am I?
I'll take the parasites.
You can't have both parasites. You can take blood parasites 
I want brain parasites.
Okay. I'll take blood parasites and organic brain dementia 
I want that.
You can't have the whole brain!
So far, you have four and I only have two!
Then, take blood parasites. It's yours. Now we each have three.
So, we each have three  that's six. What about the seventh day? I want ascending bowel cancer.
The girl had done her homework.
That's your favorite, too? Tried to slip it by me, eh?
We'll split it. You get it the first and third Sunday of the month.
Deal.
Looks like this is goodbye.
Let's not make a big thing out of it.
Um... Marla, should we maybe exchange numbers?
Should we?
In case we want to switch nights.
I suppose.
Where have you been the last few weeks?
Marla?
How did you find me?
The forwarding number. I haven't seen you at any support groups.
That's the idea  we split them.
You haven't been going to yours.
I found a new one.
Really?
It's for men.
Like testicular cancer?
Look, this is a bad time...
I've been going to debtor's anonymous. You want to see some truly fucked up people?
I'm just on my way out...
Me too. I got a stomach full of Xanax. I took what was left of a bottle. Might've been too much.
Picture yourself watching Marla Singer throw herself around her crummy apartment.
This isn't a forreal suicide thing. This is probably one of those cryfor help things.
This could go on for hours.
So you're staying in tonight?
Do you want to wait to hear me describe death?
What are you doing here?
What... ?
What the hell are you doing here?
Except for their humping, Tyler and Marla were never in the same room.
I got this dress at a thrift store for one dollar.
Worth every penny.
Like sex crime victims, underwear insideout, bound with electrical tape.
It suits you.
It's time for you to leave.
Don't worry, I'm leaving.
You're such a nutcase, I can't even begin to keep up.
Goodbye.
What are you talking about?
Would you do something for me? I need you to check and see if there's a lump in my breast. I can't afford to throw money away on a doctor.
I don't know ...
Please.
She didn't call Tyler. I'm neutral in her book.
This is a sweet side of you. Picking these up for ... "Mrs. Haniver" and... "Mrs. Raines." Where are they?
Tragically, they're dead. I'm alive and I'm in poverty. You want any?
No, thanks.
Good.
Where? Here?
Here.
There?
Here.
Here.
Feel anything?
No.
Make sure.
Okay. Okay, I'm sure.
You feel nothing?
Nothing.
Well, that's a relief. Thank you.
No... no problem.
I wish I could return the favor.
I think everything's okay here.
I could check your prostate.
Uh ... nah.
Well... thanks, anyway.
You... don't have to... leave.
Whatever.
Really... I mean it. Have you been going to your groups?
Chloe's dead.
When?
Do you care?
I don't know.
It was the smart move on her part.
I don't understand. Why does a weak person have to go out and find a strong person... to hang onto?
What do you get out of it?
You hear that?
Hear what?
That... sawing and hammering.
Have we been talking too long? Must we change the subject?
No.
That day you came over to my place to play doctor... what was going on there?
What is this? Who did this?
... A person.
Guy or girl?
Why would you ask if it's a guy or a girl?!
Why would you get bent if I asked?
Let go of me... Leave me alone.
You're afraid to say.
The Paper Street Soap Company.
Can I come in?
He's not here.
What?
He's not here! Tyler's not here anymore! He's gone away!
Yeah?
Marla, it's me. Have we... have we ever had sex?
What kind of stupid question is that?!
Because the answer's "yes" or because the answer's "no?"
Is this a trick?
Will you just answer me, for Christsake?!
You mean, you want to know if I think we were just having sex or making love?
We did make love?
Is that what you're calling it?
Answer the question!
You fuck me, then snub me. You love me, you hate me. You show me your sensitive side, then you turn into a total asshole! Is that a pretty accurate description of our relationship, Tyler?
We've just lost cabin pressure.
What did you say... ?
What is wrong with you?
Say my name.
What... ?
Say my name! What's my name!?
Tyler Durden! Tyler Durden, you fucking freak. What's going on? I'm coming over there...
Marla, no, wait...
Marla...
Your whackedout, bald freaks hit me with a fucking broom. I thought they were going to break my arm.
I'm sorry, I...
The were burning their fingertips with lye. The stink was unbelievable.
Marla... I need to talk to you. It's going to take a tremendous act of faith on your part for you to hear me out.
Here comes an avalanche of bullshit.
I don't want to hear anything you've got to say.
Give me a minute, Marla, alright... just sixty seconds.
Sixty seconds, then I'm out of here.
Absolutely, you have every right. I need you to do me a favor.
I've done you enough favors.
Because... I'm Tyler Durden.
Then, I'll have the clam chowder... fried chicken and a baked potato with everything and a chocolate chiffon pie.
You got about thirty seconds.
I know that I've been... unwell. I know it's been like there's two sides to me.
Two sides? You're Dr. Jeckle and Mr. Jackass.
I deserve that. Anyway, I've... I've only just realized
What?
I mean, the depth and breadth of our relationship has only recently been illuminated for me. I know this... I know us hasn't been such a great thing for you...
Whatever. I'll take my food to go...
I'm trying to tell you  and this is where you have to trust me  but, I think your life might be in real danger.
What?
You have to get out of here. Leave as soon as possible. Go to any rural town, away from any major city...
You are an insane person.
Marla...
No, no, shut up! I've had enough. I tried, Tyler... I have tried...
There's a part of you I really like, but I can't do this anymore. I just can't. This is killing me...
I'm sorry, but I...
What?! You're sorry? I don't believe that for a minute.
Let go of me!
Do this for me, Marla. Do this for me, if you never do anything else...
Leave me alone! I don't ever want to see you again!
Okay, if that's what it takes, you'll never have to see me again. Here... here...
Tyler...
I'm begging you. Get on the bus. Get on the bus.
Why are you doing this?
I can't let myself see where you're going. Go wherever it takes you, remember... keep away from major cities...
I'm not paying this back. I consider it "asshole tax."
Yes, fine. Just, get on. Stay away a couple of weeks, at least.
What happened... ?
Don't ask.
My God, you're shot...
Yes.
Who did this to you?
I did, I think. But, I'm okay... I'm fine...
No, you can't die of insomnia.
Maybe I died already. Look at my face.
You need to lighten up.
Can't you give me something?
Redandblue Tuinal, lipstickred Seconals.
You need healthy, natural sleep. Chew valerian root and get some more exercise.
I'm in pain.
You want to see pain? Swing by First Methodist Tuesday nights. See the guys with testicular cancer. That's pain.
This is Detective Stern with the arson unit. We have some new information about the "incident" at your condo.
Yes?
I don't know if you're aware... your front door  it seems someone sprayed freon into the lock, then tapped it with a chisel to shatter the cylinder.
No, I wasn't aware...
I am Jack's Cold Sweat.
Does this sound strange to you?
Yes, sire, strange. Very strange.
The dynamite...
Dynamite?
Yes. It left a residue of ammonium oxalate and potassium perchloride. Do you know what that means?
What does that mean?
It means it was homemade.
This is... really a shock...
Whoever set this homemade dynamite could've blown out the pilot light days before the explosion. The gas, it seems, was just a detonator.
Who do you think could've done this?
I'll ask the questions, son.
No. No, sir. I loved that condo. I loved every stick of furniture. The lamps, the chairs, the rugs, were me. The dishes were me. The plants were...
I'd like to thank the academy...
Well, if any ideas come to you, give me a call. In the meantime, don't leave town. I may need to bring you in for questioning.
I'm going to need you outoftown a little more this week. We've got some "redflags" to cover.
It must've been Tuesday. he was wearing his "cornflowerblue" tie.
You want me to deprioritize my current reports until you advise of a status upgrade?
You need to make these your primary "action items."
He was full of pep. Must've had his grande latte enema.
Here are your flight coupons. Call me from the road if there are any snags. Your itinerary...
After fight club, everything else in your life gets the volume turned down. You can deal with anything.
Have you finished those reports?
Yes.
Is that your blood?
Some of it, yes.
I must've left the original in the copy machine.
"The second rule of fight club... Is this yours?
Hmm?
You don't get paid to abuse the copy machine.
"Abuse" the copy machine. There's an image.
Pretend you're me. You find this. What would you do?
We need to talk.
Okay. Where to begin? With your constant absenteeism? With your unpresentable appearance? You're up for review...
I Am Jack's Complete Lack of Surprise.
Let's pretend. You're the Department of Transportation, and you discover that our company intentionally did nothing about leather seats cured in third world countries with chemicals we know cause birth defects? Brake linings that fail after a thousand miles. Fuel injectors that burn people alive.
Just who the fuck do you think you are?! Get out! You're fired!
What about this? Keep me on payroll as an outside consultant. In exchange for my salary, I'll keep my mouth shut. I won't need to come to the office. I can do this job from home.
This was a support group for men with testicular cancer. The big moosie slobbering all over me was Bob.
We're still men.
Yes. We're men. Men is what we are.
Six months ago, Bob's testicles were removed. Then hormone therapy. He developed bitch tits because his testosterone was too high and his body upped the estrogen. That was where my head fit  into his huge, sweating tits that hung enormous, the way we think of God's as big.
They're gonna have to open my pec's again to drain the fluid.
Bob was a champion bodybuilder. You know that chest expansion program you see on TV? That was his idea.
...using steroids. I was a juicer. Diabonol, then, Wisterol  it's for racehorses, for Christsake. Now I'm bankrupt, divorced, my two grown kids won't return my calls...
Strangers with this kind of honesty make me go a big rubbery one.
Cornelius! How are you?
Bob. I'm okay. How are you?
Better than I've ever been in my life.
Really? Great. Still "Remaining Men Together?"
No. I found something new.
Really, what's that?
The first rule is... you aren't supposed to talk about it...
Oh.
And the second rule about it is... you're not supposed to talk about it. And the third rule...
Bob, Bob... I'm a member.
You are?!
Look at my face.
That's a fucking great, man! Fucking great! Congratulations.
Yeah, both of us.
You know about the guy who invented it? I hear all kinds of things. Supposedly, he was born in a mental institution. They say he only sleeps one hour a night. You know about this guy? Tyler Durden?
I need to know where Tyler is. Can't you help me?
Sir, you're disturbing the other patrons with your laudish behavior.
There's no one else here.
I'm sorry, I haven't the faintest idea what you're talking about.
Look at my face. I'm a member. I just need to know if you've seen Tyler Durden.
I'm not disclosed to bespeak any such information to you, nor would I, even if I had said information you want, at this juncture be able.
You are a moron.
I'm afraid I have to insist you leave.
That wouldn't interest you.
Where's Tyler?
The first rule of Project 
Right, right.
What... ?
The garden. Take him there. Move, people. Let's do this!
Get your hands off him! Get off...! What the hell do you think you're doing... ? Evidence?! This is a man... ! You killed him!
He was killed in action.
No! Look at you! You're... you're running around in ski masks, exploding things...
He was killed serving Project Mayhem.
This is doable.
Congratulations, Jerry.
What the heck, Jerry, if I wanted bank interest on seven hunnert'n fifty thousand I'd go to Midwest Federal. Talk to Bill Diehl.
He's at Norstar.
He's at 
I gotta tell ya, Wade, I'm leanin' to Jerry's viewpoint here.
Well 
We gotta protect Jean. These  we're not holdin' any cards here, Wade, they got all of 'em. So they call the shots.
I'm tellin' ya.
Well... Why don't we...
Uhhuh.
We called his house; his little boy said he hadn't been there.
And his wife?
She's visiting relatives in Florida. Now his boss, this guy Gustafson, he's also disappeared. Nobody at his office knows where he is.
Geez. Looks like this thing goes higher than we thought. You call his home?
His wife's in the hospital, has been for a couple months. The big C.
Oh, my.
And this Shep Proudfoot character, he's a little darling. He's now wanted for assault and parole violation. He clobbered a neighbor of his last night and another person who could be one of your perps, and he's at large.
Boy, this thing is really... geez.
Well, they're all out on the wire. Well, you know...
Yah. Well, I just can't thank you enough, Detective Sibert, this cooperation has been outstanding.
Thanks, hon. Time to shove off.
Love ya, Margie.
Hon?
Yah?
Prowler needs a jump.
Yah.
Thanks, hon.
You bet. Thanks for lunch. What do we got here, Arbie's?
Uhhuh.
...How's the paintin' goin'?
Pretty good. Found out the Hautmans are entering a painting this year.
Aw, hon, you're better'n them.
They're real good.
They're good, Norm, but you're better'n them.
Yah, ya think?
Yah, okay. How's the hotel?
Oh, pretty good. They bitin'?
Yeah, couple a muskies. No pike yet. How d'you feel?
Oh, fine.
Not on your feet too much?
No, no.
You shouldn't be on your feet too much, you got weight you're not used too. How's the food down there?
Had dinner at a place called the King's Table. Buffet style. It was pretty darn good.
Was it reasonable?
Yah, not too bad. So it's nice up there?
Yah, it's good. No pike yet, but it's good.
They announced it?
Yah.
...So?
Threecent stamp.
Your mallard?
Yah.
Norm, that's terrific!
It's just the three cent.
It's terrific!
Hautman's bluewinged teal got the twentynine cent. People don't much use the threecent.
Oh, for Pete's  a course they do! Every time they raise the darned postage, people need the little stamps!
Yah.
When they're stuck with a bunch a the old ones!
Yah, I guess.
That's terrific.
I love you, Margie.
I love you, Norm.
Hello?
Yah, is this Marge?
Yah?
Margie Olmstead?
...Well, yah. Who's this?
This is Mike Yanagita. Ya know  Mike Yanagita. Remember me?
...Mike Yanagita!
...Hello?
Norm?
No, I'm leavin' this mornin', back up to Brainerd.
Well, I'm sorry I won't see ya.
Mm. But ya think he's all right? saw him last night and he's 
What'd he say?
Well, it was nothin' specific he said, it just seemd like it all hit him really hard, his wife dyin' 
His wife?
Linda.
No.
Linda Cooksey?
No. No. No. They weren't  he, uh, he was bothering Linda for about, oh, for a good year. Really pestering her, wouldn't leave her alone.
So... they didn't...
No. No. They never married. Mike's had psychiatric problems.
Oh. Oh, my.
Yah, he  he's been struggling. He's living with his parents now.
Oh. Geez.
Yah, Linda's fine. You should call her.
Geez. Well  geez. That's a suprise.
His wife. This guy says she was kidnapped last Wednesday.
The day of our homicides.
Yah.
And this guy is...
Lundegaard's fatherinlaw's accountant.
Gustafson's accountant.
Yah.
But we still haven't found Gustafson.
 looking.
Sorry  didn't copy.
Still missing. We're looking.
Copy. And Lundegaard too.
Yah. Where are ya, Margie?
Oh, I'm almost back  I'm driving around Moose Lake.
Oh. Gary's loudmouth.
Yah, the loudmouth. So the whole state has it, Lundegaard and Gustafson?
Yah, it's over the wire, it's everywhere, they'll find 'em.
Copy.
We've got a 
There's the car! There's the car!
Whose car?
My car! My car! Tan Ciera!
Don't go in! Wait for backup!
...Chief Gunderson?
Copy. Yah, send me backup!
Yes, ma'am. Are we the closest PD?
Yah, Menominie only has Chief Perpich and he takes February off to go to Boundary Waters.
Nope.
Well, you do reside their at 1425 Fremont Terrace?
Yep.
Anyone else residing there?
Nope.
Well, Mr. Proudfoot, this call came in past three in the morning. It's just hard for me to believe you can't remember anyone calling.
...Now, I know you've had some problems, struggling with the narcotics, some other entanglements, currently on parole 
So?
Well, associating with criminals, if you're the one they talked to, that right there would be a violation of your parole and would end with you back in Stillwater.
Uhhuh.
Now, I saw some rough stuff on your priors, but nothing in the nature of a homicide...
...I know you don't want to be an accessory to something like that.
Nope.
So you think you might remember who those folks were who called ya?
Yah, yah, course I remember. How are ya? What time is it?
Oh, geez. It's quarter to eleven. I hope I dint wake you.
No, that's okay.
Yah, I'm down in the Twin Cities and I was just watching on TV about these shootings up in Brainerd, and I saw you on the news there.
Yah.
I thought, geez, is that Margie Olmstead? I can't believe it!
Yah, that's me.
Well, how the heck are ya?
Okay, ya know. Okay.
Yah?
Yah  how are you doon?
Oh, pretty good.
Heck, it's been such a long time, Mike. It's great to hear from ya.
Yah... Yah, yah. Geeze, Margie!
Geez! You look great!
Yah  easy there  you do too! I'm expecting, ya know.
I see that! That's great!
...What can I get ya?
Just a Diet Coke.
...This is a nice place.
Yah, ya know it's the Radisson, so it's pretty good.
You're livin' in Edina, then?
Oh, yah, couple years now. It's actually Eden Prarie  that school district. So Chief Gunderson, then! So ya went and married Norm Sonof aGunderson!
Oh, yah, a long time ago.
Great. What brings ya down  are ya down here on that homicide  if you're allowed, ya know, to discuss that?
Oh, yah, but there's not a heckuva lot to discuss. What about you, Mike? Are you married  you have kids?
Well, yah, I was married. I was married to  You mind if I sit over here?
...I was married to Linda Cooksey 
No, I  Mike  wyncha sit over there, I'd prefer that.
Huh? Oh, okay, I'm sorry.
No, just so I can see ya, ya know. Don't have to turn my neck.
Oh, sure, I unnerstand, I didn't mean to 
No, no, that's fine.
Yah, sorry, so I was married to Linda Cooksey  ya remember Linda? She was a year behind us.
I think I remember Linda, yah. She was  yah. So things didn't work out, huh?
And then I, and then I been workin' for Honeywell for a few years now.
Well, they're a good outfit.
Yah, if you're an engineer, yah, you could do a lot worse. Of course, it's not, uh, it's nothin' like your achievement.
It sounds like you're doin' really super.
Yah, well, I, uh... it's not that it didn't work out  Linda passed away. She, uh...
I'm sorry.
Yah, I, uh... She had leukemia, you know...
No, I didn't...
It was a tough, uh... it was a long  She fought real hard, Marge...
I'm sorry, Mike.
Oh, ya know, that's, uh  what can I say?...
Better times.
I was so... I been so... and then I saw you on TV, and I remembered, ya know... I always liked you...
Well, I always liked you, Mike.
I always liked ya so much...
It's okay, Mike  Should we get together another time, ya think?
No  I'm sorry! It's just  I been so lonely  then I saw you, and...
...I'm sorry... I shouldn't a done this... I thought we'd have a really terrific time, and now I've...
It's okay...
You were such a super lady... and then I... I been so lonely...
It's okay, Mike...
...You can sleep, hon. It's early yet.
Gotta go?
Yah.
I'll fix ya some eggs.
That's okay, hon. I gotta run.
Gotta eat a breakfast, Marge. I'll fix ya some eggs.
Aw, you can sleep, hon.
Ya gotta eat a breakfast...
...I'll fix ya some eggs.
Aw, Norm.
Hiya, Lou.
Margie. Thought you might need a little warmup.
Yah, thanks a bunch. So what's the deal, now? Gary says triple homicide?
Yah, looks pretty bad. Two of'm're over here.
Where is everybody?
Well  it's cold, Margie.
Okay, so we got a state trooper pulls someone over, we got a shooting, and these folks drive by, and we got a highspeed pursuit, ends here, and this executiontype deal.
Yah.
I'd be very surprised if our suspect was from Brainerd.
Yah.
Ya see something down there, Chief?
Uh  I just, I think I'm gonna barf.
Geez, you okay, Margie?
I'm fine  it's just morning sickness.
...Well, that passed.
Yah?
Yah. Now I'm hungry again.
You had breakfast yet, Margie?
Oh, yah. Norm made some eggs.
Yah? Well, what now, d'ya think?
Let's go take a look at that trooper.
There's two of 'em, Lou!
Yah?
Yah, this guy's smaller than his buddy.
Oh, yah?
How's it look, Marge?
Well, he's got his gun on his hip there, and he looks like a nice enough guy. It's a real shame.
Yah.
You haven't monkeyed with his car there, have ya?
No way.
Somebody shut his lights. I guess the little guy sat in there, waitin' for his buddy t'come back.
Yah, woulda been cold out here.
Heck, yah. Ya think, is Dave open yet?
You don't think he's mixed up in 
No, no, I just wanna get Norm some night crawlers.
You look in his citation book?
Yah...
...Last vehicle he wrote in was a tan Ciera at 2:18 a.m. Under the plate number he put DLR  I figure they stopped him or shot him before he could finish fillin' out the tag number.
Uhhuh.
So I got the state lookin' for a Ciera with a tag startin' DLR. They don't got no match yet.
I'm not sure I agree with you a hunnert percent on your policework, there, Lou.
Yah?
Yah, I think that vehicle there probly had dealer plates. DLR?
Oh...
...Geez.
Yah. Say, Lou, ya hear the one about the guy who couldn't afford personalized plates, so he went and changed his name to J2L 4685?
Yah, that's a good one.
Yah.
How we doin' on that vehicle?
No motels registered any tan Ciera last night. But the night before, two men checked into the Blue Ox registering a Ciera and leavin' the tag space blank.
Geez, that's a good lead. The Blue Ox, that's that trucker's joint out there on I35?
Yah. Owner was on the desk then, said these two guys had company.
Oh, yah?
Say, Shep, how ya doin' there?
Mm.
Say, ya know those two fellas ya put me in touch with, up there in Fargo?
Put you in touch with Grimsrud.
Well, yah, but he had a buddy there. He, uh 
Well, I don't vouch for him.
Well, that's okay, I just 
I vouch for Grimsrud. Who's his buddy?
Carl somethin'?
Never heard of him. Don't vouch for him.
Well, that's okay, he's a buddy of the guy ya vouched for, so I'm not worryin'. I just, I was wonderin', see, I gotta get in touch with 'em for, I might not need it anymore, sumpn's happenin', see 
Call 'em up.
Yah, well, see, I did that, and I haven't been able to get 'em, so I thought you maybe'd know an alternate number or what have ya.
Nope.
Yah, pretty good.
Whatcha watchin' there?
Norstars.
...Who they playin'?
OOOoooh! His reaction synchronizes with a reaction from the crowd.
Wade, have ya had a chance to think about, uh, that deal I was talkin' about, those forty acres there on Wayzata?
You told me about it.
Yah, you said you'd have a think about it. I understand it's a lot of money 
A heck of a lot. What'd you say you were gonna put there?
lot. It's a limited 
I know it's a lot.
I mean a parking lot.
Yah, well, seven hundred and fifty thousand dollars is a lot  ha ha ha!
Yah, well, it's a chunk, but 
I thought you were gonna show it to Stan Grossman. He passes on this stuff before it gets kicked up to me.
Well, you know Stan'll say no dice. That's why you pay him. I'm asking you here, Wade. This could work out real good for me and Jean and Scotty 
Jean and Scotty never have to worry.
How ya doin', Wade?
What's goin' on there?
Oh, nothing, Wade. How ya doin' there?
Stan Grossman looked at your proposal. Says it's pretty sweet.
No kiddin'?
We might be innarested.
No kiddin'! I'd need the cash pretty quick there. In order to close the deal.
Come by at 2:30 and we'll talk about it. If your numbers are right, Stan says its pretty sweet. Stan Grossman.
Yah.
2:30.
Yah, thanks, Stan, it's a pretty 
What kind of finder's fee were you looking for?
...Huh?
Stan and I're okay.
Yah.
We're good to loan in.
Yah.
But we never talked about your fee for bringin' it to us.
No, but, Wade, see, I was bringin' you this deal for you to loan me the money to put in. It's my deal here, see?
You're sayin' that we put in all the money and you collect when it pays off?
No, no. I  I'd, I'd  pay you back the principal, and interest heck, I'd go  one over prime 
What the heck were you thinkin'? Heck, if I'm only gettin' bank interest, I'd look for complete security. Heck, FDIC. I don't see nothin' like that here.
Yah, but I  okay, I would, I'd guarantee ya your money back.
I'm not talkin' about your damn word, Jerry. Geez, what the heck're you?... Well, look, I don't want to cut you out of the loop, but his here's a good deal. I assume, if you're not innarested, you won't mind if we move on it independently.
 All's I know is, ya got a problem, ya call a professional!
No! They said no cops! They were darned clear on that, Wade! They said you call the cops and we 
Well, a course they're gonna say that! But where's my protection? They got Jean here! I give these sons a bitches a million dollars, where's my guarantee they're gonna let her go.
Well, they 
A million dollars is a lot a damn money! And there they are, they got my daughter!
Yah, but think this thing through here, Wade. Ya give 'em what they want, why wont' they let her go? You gotta listen to me on this one, Wade.
Heck, you don't know! You're just whistlin' Dixie here! I'm sayin', the cops, they can advise us on this! I'm sayin' call a professional!
No! No cops! That's final! This is my deal here, Wade! Jean is my wife here!
You're darned tootin'!
Ah, dammit!
... Stan, I'm thinkin' we should offer 'em half a million.
Now come on here, no way, Wade! No way!
Dammit! I wanna be a part a this thing!
No, Wade! They were real clear! They said they'd call tomorrow, with instructions, and it's gonna be delivered by me alone!
It's my money, I'll deliver it  what do they care?
All the more reason! I don't want you  with all due respect, Jerry  I don't want you mucking this up.
The heck d'ya mean?
They want my money, they can deal with me. Otherwise I'm goin' to a professional. He points at a briefcase.
...There's a million dollars here!
No, see 
Look, Jerry, you're not sellin' me a damn car. It's my show here. That's that.
...Dad?
Yah.
Stan Grossman called.
Yah, okay.
Twice.
Okay.
...Is everything okay?
Yah.
Are you calling Stan?
Well... I'm goin' ta bed now.
Yah, Shep Proudfoot said 
Shep said you'd be here at 7:30. What gives, man?
Shep said 8:30.
We been sitting here an hour. I've peed three times already.
I'm sure sorry. I  Shep told me 8:30. It was a mixup, I guess.
Ya got the car?
Yah, you bet. It's in the lot there. Brandnew burnt umber Ciera.
Yeah, okay. Well, siddown then. I'm Carl Showalter and this is my associate Gaear Grimsrud.
Yah, how ya doin'. So, uh, we all set on this thing, then?
Sure, Jerry, we're all set. Why wouldn't we be?
Yah, no, I'm sure you are. Shep vouched for you and all. I got every confidence in you fellas.
Hon? Got the growshries.
Thank you, hon. How's Fargo?
Yah, real good.
Dad's here.
Yah, real good. How you doin'?
Pretty good, Mr. Lundegaard. You're damned hard to get on the phone.
Yah, it's pretty darned busy here, but that's the way we like it.
That's for sure. Now, I just need, on these last, these financing documents you sent us, I can't read the serial numbers of the vehicles on here, so I 
But I already got the, it's okay, the loans are in place, I already got the, the what, the 
Yeah, the three hundred and twenty thousand dollars, you got the money last month.
Yah, so we're all set.
Yeah, but the vehicles you were borrowing on, I just can't read the serial numbers on your application. Maybe if you could just read them to me 
But the deal's already done, I already got the money 
Yeah, but we have an audit here, I just have to know that these vehicles you're financing with this money, that they really exist.
Yah, well, they exist all right.
I'm sure they do  ha ha! But I can't read their serial numbers here. So if you could read me 
Well, but see, I don't have 'em in front a me  why don't I just fax you over a copy 
No, fax is no good, that's what I have and I can't read the darn thing 
Yah, okay, I'll have my girl send you over a copy, then.
Okay, because if I can't correlate this note with the specific vehicles, then I gotta call back that money 
Yah, how much money was that?
Three hundred and twenty thousand dollars. See, I gotta correlate that money with the cars it's being lent on.
Yah, no problem, I'll just fax that over to ya, then.
No, no, fax is 
I mean send it over. I'll shoot it right over to ya.
Okay.
Okay, real good, then.
Jerry Lundegaard.
All right, Jerry, you got this phone to yourself?
Well... yah.
Know who this is?
Well, yah, I got an idea. How's that Ciera workin' out for ya?
Circumstances have changed, Jerry.
Well, what do ya mean?
Things have changed. Circumstances, Jerry. Beyond the, uh... acts of God, force majeure..
What the  how's Jean?
Yah!
Jerome Lundegaard?
Yah!
This is Reilly Deifenbach at GMAC. Sir, I have not yet received those vehicle IDs you promised me.
Yah! I... those are in the mail.
Mr. Lundegaard, that very well may be. I must inform you, however, that absent the receipt of those numbers by tomorrow afternoon, I will have to refer this matter to our legal department.
Yah.
My patience is at an end.
Yah.
Good day, sir.
...Yah.
...Dad?
It's okay, Scotty.
Where're you going?
Be back in a minute. If Stan calls you, just tell him I went to Embers. Oh, geez 
Mr. Lundegaard?
Huh? Yah?
I wonder if I could take just a minute of your time here 
What... What is it all about?
Huh? Do you mind if I sit down  I'm carrying quite a load here.
...You're the owner here, Mr. Lundegaard?
Naw, I... Executive Sales Manager.
Well, you can help me. My name's Marge Gunderson 
My fatherinlaw, he's the owner.
Uhhuh. Well, I'm a police officer from up Brainerd investigating some malfeasance and I was just wondering if you've had any new vehicles stolen off the lot in the past couple of weeks  specifically a tan Cutlass Ciera?
...Mr. Lundegaard?
...Brainerd?
Yah. Yah. Home a Paul Bunyan and Babe the Blue Ox.
...Babe the Blue Ox?
Yah, ya know we've got the big statue there. So you haven't had any vehicles go missing, then?
No. No, ma'am.
Okeydokey, thanks a bunch. I'll let you get back to your paperwork, then.
Yah, no, I'm kinda  I'm kinda busy 
I unnerstand. I'll keep it real short, then. I'm on my way out of town, but I was just  Do you mind if I sit down? I'm carrying a bit of a load here.
No, I 
Yah, it's this vehicle I asked you about yesterday. I was just wondering 
Yah, like I told ya, we haven't had any vehicles go missing.
Okay, are you sure, cause, I mean, how do you know? Because, see, the crime I'm investigating, the perpetrators were driving a car with dealer plates. And they called someone who works here, so it'd be quite a coincidence if they weren't, ya know, connected.
Yah, I see.
So how do you  have you done any kind of inventory recently?
The car's not from our lot, ma'am.
but do you know that for sure without 
Well, I would know. I'm the Executive Sales Manager.
Yah, but 
We run a pretty tight ship here.
I know, but  well, how do you establish that, sir? Are the cars, uh, counted daily or what kind of 
Ma'am, I answered your question.
... I'm sorry, sir?
Ma'am, I answered your question. I answered the darn  I'm cooperating here, and I...
Sir, you have no call to get snippy with me. I'm just doin' my job here.
I'm not, uh, I'm not arguin' here. I'm cooperating... There's no, uh  we're doin' all we can...
Okay, I'll do a damned lot count!
Sir? Right now?
Sure right now! You're darned tootin'!
...If it's so damned important to ya!
I'm sorry, sir, I 
...Yah, okay...
Look, Dad, there is no fucking way 
...How ya doin' there, Scotty?
Dad! What're they doing? Wuddya think they're doin' with Mom?
It's okay, Scotty. They're not gonna want to hurt her any. These men, they just want money, see.
What if  what if sumpn goes wrong?
No, no, nothin's goin' wrong here. Grandad and I, we're  we're makin' sure this gets handled right.
Dad, I really think we should call the cops.
No! We can't let anyone know about this thing! We gotta play ball with these guys  you ask Stan Grossman, he'll tell ya the same thing!
Yeah, but 
We're gonna get Mom back for ya, but we gotta play ball. Ya know, that's the deal. Now if Lorraine calls, or Sylvia, you just say that Mom is in Florida with Pearl and Marty...
So you're goin' to the Gophers on Sunday?
You bet.
You wouldn't have an extra ticket there?
They're playin' the Buckeyes!
Yah.
Ya kiddin'!
Good to see ya again, Jerry. If these numbers are right, this looks pretty sweet.
Oh, those numbers are all right, bleemee.
The financials are pretty thorough, so the only thing we don't know is your fee.
...My fee? Wade, what the heck're you talkin' about?
Jerry  we thought you were bringin' us an investment.
Yah, right 
You're sayin'  what're you sayin'?
No, see, I don't need a finder's fee, I need  finder's fee's, what, ten percent, heck that's not gonna do it for me. I need the principal.
Jerry, we're not just going to give you seven hundred and fifty thousand dollars.
We're not horsetrading here, Wade, we just gotta bite the bullet on this thing.
Yah!
What's the next step here, Jerry?
They're gonna call, give me instructions for a drop. I'm supposed to have the money ready tomorrow.
Okay. We'll get the money together. Don't worry about it, Jerry. Now, d'you want anyone at home, with you, until they call?
No, I  they don't want  they're just s'posed to be dealin' with me, they were real clear.
Yah.
Ya know, they said no one listenin' in, they'll be watchin', ya know. Maybe it's all bull, but like you said, Stan, they're callin' the shots.
Okay. And Scotty, is he gonna be all right?
Yah, geez, Scotty. I'll go talk to him.
Wade's got a point there. I'll handle the call if you want, Jerry.
No, no. See  they, no, see, they only deal with me. Ya feel this, this nervousness on the phone there, they're very  these guys're dangerous 
I'm talkin' about your potential.
Uhhuh.
You're not a C student.
Uhn.
And yet you're gettin' C grades. It's this disparity there that concerns your dad and me.
Uhhuh.
You know what a disparity is?
Yeah!
Okay. Well, that's why we don't want ya goin' out fer hockey.
Oh, man!
...What's the big deal? It's an hour 
Hold on.
LeSeure. But I went to high school in White Bear Lake.
Okay, I want you to tell me what these fellas looked like.
He was a little older. Looked like the Marlboro man.
Yah?
Yah. Maybe I'm sayin' that cause he smoked Marlboros.
Uhhuh.
A subconscioustype thing.
Yah, that can happen.
Yah.
Where you girls from?
Chaska.
Well, the little guy, he was kinda funnylooking.
In what way?
I dunno. Just funnylooking.
Can you be any more specific?
I couldn't really say. He wasn't circumcised.
Was he funnylooking apart from that?
Yah.
So you were having sex with the little fella, then?
Uhhuh.
Is there anything else you can tell me about him?
No. Like I say, he was funnylooking. More'n most people even.
And what about the other fella?
They said they were goin' to the Twin Cities?
Oh, yah?
Hiya, Norm. How ya doin', Margie? How's the fricassee?
Pretty darn good, ya want some?
No, I gotta  hey, Norm, I thought you were goin' fishin' up at Mile Lacs?
The numbers y'asked for, calls made from the lobby pay phone at the Blue Ox. Two to Minneapolis that night.
Mm.
First one's a trucking company, second one's a private residence. A Shep Proudfoot.
Uhhuh... A what?
Shep Proudfoot. That's a name.
Uhhuh.
Yah.
...Yah, okay, I think I'll drive down there, then.
Oh, yah? Twin Cities?
How ya doin'?
Mr. Mohra?
Yah.
Officer Olson.
Yah, righto.
...So, I'm tendin' bar there at Ecklund & Swedlin's last Tuesday and this little guy's drinkin' and he says, 'So where can a guy find some action  I'm goin' crazy down there at the lake.' And I says, 'What kinda action?' and he says, 'Woman action, what do I look like,' And I says 'Well, what do I look like, I don't arrange that kinda thing,' and he says, 'I'm goin' crazy out there at the lake' and I says, 'Well, this ain't that kinda place.'
Uhhuh.
So he says, 'So I get it, so you think I'm some kinda jerk for askin',' only he doesn't use the word jerk.
I unnerstand.
And then he calls me a jerk and says the last guy who thought he was a jerk was dead now. So I don't say nothin' and he says, 'What do ya think about that?' So I says, 'Well, that don't sound like too good a deal for him then.'
Ya got that right.
And he says, 'Yah, that guy's dead and I don't mean a old age.' And then he says, 'Geez, I'm goin' crazy out there at the lake.'
White Bear Lake?
Well, Ecklund & Swedlin's, that's closer ta Moose Lake, so I made that assumption.
Oh sure.
So, ya know, he's drinkin', so I don't think a whole great deal of it, but Mrs. Mohra heard about the homicides out here and she thought I should call it in, so I called it in. End a story.
What'd this guy look like anyways?
Oh, he was a little guy, kinda funny lookin'.
Uhhuh  in what way?
Just a general way.
Okay, well, thanks a bunch, Mr. Mohra. You're right, it's probably nothin', but thanks for callin' her in.
Oh sure. They say she's gonna turn cold tomorrow.
Yah, got a front movin' in.
Ya got that right.
Ah, well, we haven't had to run around like you. When're you due?
End a April.
Any others?
This'll be our first. We've been waiting a long time.
That's wonderful. Mmmm. It'll change your life, a course.
Oh, yah, I know that!
They can really take over, that's for sure.
You have children?
I thought you'd never ask. The older one is Janet, she's nine, and the younger one is Morgan.
Oh, now he's adorable.
He's three now. Course, not in that picture.
Oh, he's adorable.
Yah, he 
Where'd you get him that parka?
Both of these.
Oh, no, I can't let you do that.
Oh, don't be silly.
Well, okay  thank you, Detective.
Oh, don't be silly.
We sat here right in this room and went over this and over this!
Yah, but that TruCoat 
I sat right here and said I didn't want no TruCoat!
Yah, but I'm sayin', that TruCoat, you don't get it and you get oxidization problems. It'll cost you a heck of lot more'n five hunnert 
You're sittin' here, you're talkin' in circles! You're talkin' like we didn't go over this already!
Yah, but this TruCoat 
We had us a deal here for nineteen five. You sat there and darned if you didn't tell me you'd get this car, these options, WITHOUT THE SEALANT, for nineteenfive!
Okay, I'm not sayin' I didn't 
You called me twenty minutes ago and said you had it! Ready to make delivery, ya says! Come on down and get it! And here ya are and you're wastin' my time and you're wastin' my wife's time and I'm payin' nineteen five for this vehicle here!
Well, okay, I'll talk to my boss...
Well, he never done this before, but seein' as it's special circumstances and all, he says I can knock one hunnert off that TruCoat.
One hundred! You lied to me, Mr. Lundegaard. You're a baldfaced liar!
One hunnert's the best we can do here.
Oh, for Christ's sake, where's my goddamn checkbook. Let's get this over with.
Yah, ya got yer, this loaded here, this has yer independent, uh, yer slipped differential, uh, yer rack andpinion steering, yer alarm and radar, and I can give it to ya with a heck of a sealant, this TruCoat stuff, it'll keep the salt off 
Yah, I don't need no sealant though.
Yah, you don't need that. Now were you thinking of financing here? You oughta be aware a this GMAC plan they have now, it's really super 
...So I guess that's it, then. Here's the keys 
No, that's not it, Jerry.
Huh?
The new vehicle, plus forty thousand dollars.
Yah, but the deal was, the car first, see, then the forty thousand, like as if it was the ransom. I thought Shep told you 
Shep didn't tell us much, Jerry.
Well, okay, it's 
Except that you were gonna be here at 7:30.
Yah, well, that was a mixup, then.
Yeah, you already said that.
Yah. But it's not a whole payin advance deal. I give you a brandnew vehicle in advance and 
I'm not gonna debate you, Jerry.
Okay.
I'm not gonna sit here and debate. I will say this though: what Shep told us didn't make a whole lot of sense.
Oh, no, it's real sound. It's all worked out.
You want your own wife kidnapped?
Yah.
...Youmy point is, you pay the ransom what eighty thousand bucks?  I mean, you give us half the ransom, forty thousand, you keep half. It's like robbing Peter to play Paul, it doesn't make any 
Okay, it's  see, it's not me payin' the ransom. The thing is, my wife, she's wealthy  her dad, he's real well off. Now, I'm in a bit of trouble 
What kind of trouble are you in, Jerry?
Well, that's, that's, I'm not go inta, inta  see, I just need money. Now, her dad's real wealthy 
So why don't you just ask him for the money?
Well, it's all just part of this  they don't know I need it, see. Okay, so there's that. And even if they did, I wouldn't get it. So there's that on top, then. See, these're personal matters.
Personal matters.
Yah. Personal matters that needn't, uh 
Okay, Jerry. You're tasking us to perform this mission, but you, you won't, uh, you won't  aw, fuck it, let's take a look at that Ciera.
...Who's Jean?
My wife! What the  how's 
Oh, Jean's okay. But there's three people up in Brainerd who aren't so okay, I'll tell ya that.
What the heck're you talkin' about? Let's just finish up this deal here 
Blood has been shed, Jerry.
...Blood has been shed.
What the heck d'ya mean?
Three people. In Brainerd.
Oh, geez.
That's right. And we need more money.
The heck d'ya mean? What a you guys got yourself mixed up in?
We need more 
This was s'posed to be a norough stufftype deal 
DON'T EVER INTERRUPT ME, JERRY! JUST SHUT THE FUCK UP!
Well, I'm sorry, but I just  I 
Look. I'm not gonna debate you, Jerry. The price is now the whole amount. We want the entire eighty thousand.
Oh, for Chrissakes here 
Blood has been shed. We've incurred risks, Jerry. I'm coming into town tomorrow. Have the money ready.
Now we had a deal here! A deal's a deal!
IS IT, JERRY? You ask those three pour souls up in Brainerd if a deal's a deal! Go ahead, ask 'em!
...The heck d'ya mean?
I'll see you tomorrow.
Yah, I got the money, but, uh 
Don't you fucking but me, Jerry. I want you with this money on the Dayton Radisson parking ramp, top level, thirty minutes, and we'll wrap this up.
Yah, okay, but, uh 
You're there in thirty minutes or I find you, Jerry, and I shoot you, and I shoot your fucking wife, and I shoot all your little fucking children, and I shoot 'em all in the back of their little fucking heads. Got it?
...Yah, well, you stay away from Scotty now 
GOT IT?
Okay, real good, then.
Or your fucking wife, you know.
Or your fucking wife, Jerry.
Where is Pancakes Hause?
What?
We stop at Pancakes Hause.
What're you, nuts? We had pancakes for breakfast. I gotta go somewhere I can get a shot and a beer  and a steak maybe. Not more fuckin' pancakes. Come on.
...Come on, man. Okay, here's an idea. We'll stop outside of Brainerd. I know a place there we can get laid. Wuddya think?
I'm fuckin' hungry now, you know.
Yeah, yeah, Jesus  I'm sayin', we'll stop for pancakes, then we'll get laid. Wuddya think?
...Look at that. Twin Cities. IDS Building, the big glass one. Tallest skyscraper in the Midwest. After the Sears, uh, Chicago... You never been to Minneapolis?
No.
...Would it kill you to say something?
I did.
"No." First thing you've said in the last four hours. That's a, that's a fountain of conversation, man. That's a geyser. I mean, whoa, daddy, stand back, man. Shit, I'm sittin' here driving, man, doin' all the driving, whole fuckin' way from Brainerd, drivin', tryin' to, you know, tryin' to chat, keep our spirits up, fight the boredom of the road, and you can't say one fucking thing just in the way of conversation.
Unguent.
Huh? Grimsurd looks at his thumb.
I need ...unguent.
Shut the fuck up or I'll throw you back in the trunk, you know.
Geez. That's more'n I've heard you say all week.
You'll take care of it. Boy, you are smooth smooth, you know.
Whoa, Daddy.
Clear him off the road.
Yeah.
She started shrieking, you know.
Jezhush.
...You c'n'ave my truck. I'm takin' a Shiera.
We split that.
One of us pays the other for half.
HOLD ON! NO FUCKIN' WAY! YOU FUCKIN' NOTISH ISH? I GOT FUCKIN' SHOT INNA FAISH! I WENT'N GOTTA FUCKIN' MONEY! I GET SHOT FUCKIN' PICKIN' IT UP! I BEEN UP FOR THIRTYSHIKSH FUCKIN' HOURZH! I'M TAKIN' THAT FUCKIN' CAR! THAT FUCKERZH MINE!
Just in town on business. Just in and out. Ha ha! A little of the old inandout!
Wuddya do? Carl looks around.
Have ya been to the Celebrity Room before? With other, uh, clients?
I don't think so. It's nice.
Yeah, well, it depends on the artist. You know, Jose Feliciano, ya got no complaints. Waiter!
... What is he, deaf?... So, uh, how long have you been with the escort service?
I don't know. Few munce.
Ya find the work interesting, do ya?
...What're you talking about?
This is a new car, then, sir?
It certainly is, officer. Still got that smell!
You're required to display temporary tags, either in the plate area or taped inside the back window.
Certainly 
Can I see your license and registration please?
Certainly.
...So maybe the best thing would be to take care of that, right here in Brainerd.
What's this, sir?
That's my license and registration. I wanna be in compliance.
Who the fuck are you? Who the fuck are you?
I got your goddamn money, you little punk. Now where's my daughter?
I am through fucking around! Drop that fucking briefcase!
Where's my daughter?
Fuck you, man! Where's Jerry? I gave SIMPLE FUCKING INSTRUCTIONS 
Where's my damn daughter? No Jean, no money!
Drop that fucking money!
No Jean, no money!
Is this a fucking joke here?
...Is this a fucking joke?
Unghh... oh, geez...
...What do you mean, you decided not to park here?
Yeah, I just came in. I decided not to park here.
You, uh... I'm sorry, sir, but 
I decided not to  I'm, uh, not taking the trip as it turns out.
I'm sorry, sir, we do have to charge you the four dollars.
I just pulled in here. I just fucking pulled in here!
Well, see, there's a minimum charge of four dollars. Longterm parking charges by the day.
Ophhem ma fuchem gaphe!
May I have your ticket, please?
We could never fight that current it's physically impossible.
Then don't drift down further.
I'll do what I can.
Doctor  the channel's getting awful narrow.
We're entering a Capillary. Remain in the middle.
The Wall's transparent...
It's less than one tenthousandth of an inch thick. And porous.
There seems to be something wrong with the Escape Hatch...
What do you mean?
Fluid is seeping through. Better come down and have a look!
Even so, because of our size  I mean lack of it  we'll still be cruising mighty fast. We'll be smashed to bits if there's any turbulence 
The only danger of turbulence is in the Heart  and we're not going through it. Once in the Carotid Artery, we'll remain in the Arterial System... until we reach the point of damage   where Dr. Duval will attempt to dissolve the clot with a laser beam. After the operation, we'll return by way of the Venous System   until we reach the base of the neck   where we'll be removed right here  with a hypodermic.
Captain, how will you be able to follow my charts  from up there?
On the Repeater.
That's it...
Looks simple to operate.
I'll never find my way through that.
I'll guide you, once we're in the Heart.
Well, that takes care of the valve. It was probably caused by that electric shock.
Was there any damage?
Not to the valve. But we've lost too much air to make it the rest of the way.
It's a dangerous procedure. If I miss the timing, we could explode the tanks... But I'm willing to try it.
Yes, by all means. We must try it.
What is it, Skipper?
We're losing pressure in the Flotation Tanks. Check the Manual, right over there.
Yes, there is.
Could I run a tube through that Wall, without harming Benes?
Thirtytwo minutes left... But chances are we won't have to wait that long for trynumber three.
Look at those Walls up ahead!
What's wrong, Skipper?
What I was afraid would happen. The stuff we passed through  that looked like seaweed 
How's it look?
I could use a lawnmower...
Out of your element, aren't you, Captain?
Sort of.
That makes two of us.
Atomic fuel?
Nothing you could see with the naked eye. But there's a microscopic radioactive particle inside.
If it's no military secret, how can a sub run on a microscopic particle?
They can't reduce nuclear fuel. But once the Reactor's Miniaturized  along with the submarine  a microscopic particle should emit enough energy to activate it.
That's cutting it mighty close  for a perfect fit.
It should work  theoretically. If it doesn't, the mission's off. The craft's nuclearpowered. Except for your wireless.
All in all, quite a canoe...
Designed for Piscatorial Research  the Spawning Habits of Deep Sea Fish.
Remind me to ask you about the love life of an octupus.
'Prepare for Miniaturization'...
Positions, please. And strap yourselves in.
Any reserve air?
Enough to breathe, but that's all.
I've come up against fanatics before, and Duval just doesn't fit the pattern. I'm going out there, Skipper. Maybe I can be of some help...
Remember  we can't take more than five minutes to get out.
What happened?
Dr. Michaels... He went berserk...
Berserk nothing. He's the one who's been sabotaging the mission... Get this on. Hurry!
Come on  it's no use!
We can get out through the Lab Section.
Who, me? Oh, no! Don't bother about me! We're not hurt! Isn't that right, Skipper?
Uh  what?
We feel great, don't we? Just <great>?!
Oh  sure, sure! Never better!
Nothing wrong with us! Not a thing! We're fine  just fine!
Sorry we had to get you up at this hour, Mr. Grant.
I thought I was on my vacation... What's it all about?
I can't tell you.
Where we going?
I can't tell you that either... Excuse me, Mr. Grant, but you've got a smudge on your cheek.
May I?
Go ahead.
What'd you do that for?
I'm married.
And she said it was indelible...
We need you for Security purposes, Mr. Grant.
At an operation?
They know they failed to kill Benes. Security thinks they'll try again, first chance they get. We're afraid of medical sabotage  or surgical assassination.
Surgical assassination?! But that means you suspect 
Miss Peterson, his Technical Assistant.
How are you, Miss Peterson?
About forty miles an hour.
Well, it seems to me if you reduce a ship to microscopic size  and the stream remains constant  we'd take quite a beating.
A what?
A forced joining of an Artery and Vein. Must've happened when Benes was hurt.
If we can't go back, is there an alternate route?
Yes... We can go forward on this course, but it means going directly through the Heart.
That's just dandy. We can't go forward  and we can't go back.
I'm afraid there's only one thing we can do. Call off the mission.
Tell them to take us out.
If there's any chance 
Request removal, Mr. Grant.
Sounds like heavy artillery...
It lays down quite a barrage in a lifetime. Forty million beats.
There it is!
Fasten yourselves in. There should be a tremendous surge when the Heart starts up again.
At this size, I would certainly think so.
If those Corpuscles can take on air, no reason why we can't. All we have to do is hook up the snorkel to that air chamber you were talk1ng about, and when Benes inhales, there should be plenty of pressure to force the oxygen into the tank. How's that sound to you, Skipper?
In a way  yes. Those are impurities imbedded in the Lung after a lifetime of 'Civilization.' Carbon from smoke and smog  specks of dust 
Well, we better get on with it.
Yes  with all that pressure, and suction within 
There's no other way. Tie my safety line to the sub.
All right now  push the snorkel through as soon as I get inside.
Walt for the lull  between the time he inhales and exhales.
Grant  wait a minute  you're not going to dismantle the wireless?
Just one little transistor and a circuit wire is all it takes.
But that'll knock out our communications! We'll be cutting ourselves off from the outside.
They'll still be able to track us by radar, because of the radioactive fuel.
Well, sir? Which is it? The wireless, or Benes' life?
Send the following message...
Looks like the sea, at dawn.
We're safe  long as it remains that color... We're in the Pleural Sac. It keeps the Lungs from rubbing against the Wall of the Chest up there. When those membranes become inflamed, we wind up with Pleurisy  and a wracking cough.
Cough? If he can kick up a storm by just <breathing> 
His Pleura's in fine condition. It should be clear sailing through this area.
Let's hope... So far, somebody's tried to sabotage this mission twice.
Sabotage? I don't understand...
I saw the laser just before we started. It was fastened down securely. You don't suppose what happened was an 'accident?' Any more than my safety line snapping after it was tied off to the sub?
You have no right to blame Duval 
That line was tampered with...
I  I don't know what to say. I know he's under a cloud, but there's not a more dedicated man in the entire medical profession.
You still never know what's going on in anyone's mind...
I can't believe it. Whatever happened was an accident.
Two in a row?
It's possible 
We're entering the Lymphatic System. Those are nuclei of cells, lining a Duct.
I always had an idea there was only one System. The Circulatory.
The Lymphatic System drains off excess fluid from the Tissues. Without it, we'd all swell up like balloons. He reaches the console, begins to take out a new chart.
Skipper, you're picking up seaweed  or whatever it is.
Reticular fibers. We ought to be clear of them soon.
Looks like somebody declared war.
Just what it is. Antibodies, destroying Bacteria  or any other foreign invader that threatens the System.
They're tracking us Topside. Once they see where we're going, I'm sure they'll take every precaution.
Let's hope they realize the danger. Captain, I'll give you a new compass heading.
Looks like quite a way to go...
No, we should reach the base of the Brain shortly. And from there, it's not far to the site of the injury.
Hold it, Skipper. What happens if we overstay?
Once time's up, DeMiniaturization begins. In a matter of seconds the ship will grow big enough to become a danger to the System. Then White Corpuscles will swarm to destroy it, as they would any invader.
How long will it take to get from here to the Removal Point?
I'm in charge of this mission! You were instructed to take orders from me, not give them!
Sorry, but the situation has changed.
Nothing has changed as far as <my> authority goes! He is <not> going to operate! Not in the little time we have left! There's no chance of success! It's sheer suicide for all of us!
I don't believe that.
Why not? Because of his gibberish about GOd and the Soul? Camouflage  that's all it is  to blind the gullible like you! And to hide his real identity  a fanatic whose only purpose is to kill Benes! And you made it possible!
The Medieval Philosophers were right... <Man> is the center of the Universe... We stand in the middle of Infinity, between Outer and Inner Space. And there's no limit to either.
You mean Inner Space is endless?
Everything can be divided in half, no matter how minute.
Only to the naked eye. Those corpuscles  carrying oxygen  give the stream its color. But the rest of the plasma's very much like sea water. An ocean of life...
Quite a piece of plumbing.
I'd hate to get lost on that Freeway...
They all lead to the same place  the Lungs.
Mind letting me in on what's going on out there?
A simple exchange, Mr. Grant. Corpuscles releasing carbon dioxide  the moment they touch the Wall of the Lung  in return for oxygen coming through from the other side.
Don't tell me they're refueling...
Oxygenation...
Just a few cells away from a vast air chamber  one of the countless Alvioli of the Lung  and we can't get enough to fill a microscopic tank.
Maybe we can... Skipper, is there a snorkel on this sub?
Isn't there another surgical procedure you can try?
No, there's no other way.
We'll never get there in time, at this rate.
Isn't there another route? So we can bypass all this?
Yes... We can transfer over to the Inner Ear, and go by way of the Endolymphatic Duct.
Then why not take it?
"Yet all the suns that light the Corridors of the Universe shine dim, Before the blazing of a Single Thought  "
"Proclaiming in incandescent glory The myriad Mind of Man..."
How does it look, Doctor?
If I can relieve the pressure on a few key vessels...
Doctor, we've just about had it.
It I can clear this Central Nerve, that <may> be enough...
The ship's good as finished. We'll have to get out on our own! Is there a quick way out?
We could follow the Optic Nerve to the corner of the Eye.
You said there was a quick way out!
What about Dr. Michaels?
It's too late!
Doctor, what's wrong?
I can't breathe!... I've got to get out!
It's too late now. We must go on.
Looks like the molecular structure of proteins.
I don't agree. I think we ought to stop and take a sample.
That's not the purpose of this mission. Captain  keep a straight course  until you're in the clear.
But that isn't possible.
Not in a sealed vessel like an Artery. Captain  something must be wrong with your controls!
We can't take a second more.
Captain  head in the d1rection of the flow and drift with it.
Nothing miraculous about it. Just an interchange of gases. The end product of five hundred million years of Evolution.
You can't believe all that's accidental? That there isn't a Creative Intelligence at work 
What can we do?
Nothing  against all that force.
That puts us right here... Which means we can head straight for the Sub Arachnoid Cavity.
Yes...
If we can go in past the Oculomotor Nerve...
It's against my better Judgment...
Better Judgment?! To wait until the actual operation  when it may be too late?
I've done all I could with the laser.
All I'm asking is you test it beforehand!
If it won't work, it's beyond my power to fix it. But if it does, there's no telling how long it will hold up. It's a jury rig, at best, and we'll need every second of use we can get out of it. That's why I don't want to put any extra strain on the connections by running unnecessary tests.
Dr. Duvall I insist you test the laser.
I'll do nothing of the sort! The operation is <my> responsibility! I won't do it, and that's final!
As usual, you want everything your way. Except this time there's more than your damned ego at stake.
I know only too well what's in the balance, Doctor. And it's not my ego, damned or otherwise.
The Soul? The finite mind cannot comprehend Infinity. And the Soul which comes from God is Infinite.
Take a close look at your Soul, and your Infinity, and your God out there 
and certain chemicals involving proteins 
You left something out.
What's that?
The Breath of God...
Removal Point? What're you talking about!
We have no alternative. With only six minutes left, we'll just barely make it.
Dr. Duval, you are not going through with this! I absolutely forbid it! I'm responsible for the lives of everyone here! I will not allow you or anyone else to leave this ship!
I'm going to do what I can to save Benes.
Bet you're pretty handy around the house... Can you cook?
We're pushing oxygen today.
I'll take some Laughing Gas, ma'am.
You sound as if you're not looking forward to it.
Well, it's not exactly a pleasure cruise.
I think it's the most exciting  We're going to see things no one ever saw before. The actual physical process of Life itself  not something under a microscope... Just think of it 
That's the trouble. I am. Being shrunk...
You may learn to like it.
That'll teach you where to keep your hand.
Now I know...
That could be quite a lethal weapon... It could kill, not cure.
Not in the hands of a great surgeon like Dr. Duval. The beam of this laser can be regulated to one millionth of a millimeter.
I understand you've been Dr. Duval's Assistant for quite some time... He must've snatched you out of the cradle.
I've been with him since I got out of school. He brought me into the CMDF, over five years ago.
A long time, with one man.
Not working for someone like Dr. Duval 
I never...never imagined it could be anything...like this.
I always thought it was nothing but red.
 at which point the Heart will be stopped by electric shock.
And if it should take more time to get through 
Look at that...they're changing color...
Doctor  is it possible? That we're seeing it happen before our eyes?
Looks like you didn't batten it down too well.
But I did. I'm positive!
Then how come it worked loose?
I have no idea.
Shouldn't you answer that?
Not now. We need air, not greetings!
I'll try to hold it from the other side of the wall, while you push from out here. Maybe that'll do it.
You can't it's too dangerous 
You must carry spare parts 
Not anything built into the chassis. If it hadn't come loose 
If you had a transistor about this size and power output, and a thin enough wire   could you piece it together?
No, it requires such absolute precision 
A surgeon might...
Oh yes, I'm sure Dr. Duval could. If we had the parts.
I've got a source. All I have to do is tap it.
Open it! Open it before they get here!
I can't till the hatch is flooded!
No need to get up 
I feel much better now...
Thank you for saving my life.
That's what they pay me for.
A great deal more than that, I believe...
Such as?
Keeping an eye on Dr. Duval...
What gives you that idea?
That's why you're really here. I knew it from the start.
As obvious as that? Our Security people will jump for joy. I suppose Duval's onto me, too?
You're not the first, but he's much too innocent, much too involved with his work, to realize what's going on around him.
Under a cloud without cause, I take it.
Oh, no. Plenty of cause. He won't follow the herd, or change his convictions  even when they're not popular. And he believes in an absolutely free interchange of information between scientists of different countries  and these days, there's nothing more suspicious than that.
Depends on which end of the telescope you look through.
What do you mean?
Well, if you happen to be very fond of him  even in love with him  it would certainly affect your point of view.
We better get back to the sub. Every second counts now.
Look! They follow the direction of her glance, are startled to see:
Doctor...
Yes, Cora.
I  I want to say...
What is it? Anything wrong?
I just wanted to thank you for taking me along.
Thank you for volunteering.
Never saw <that>. Not even under an electronmrcroscope.
They're much smaller than bacteria...
Yes, a fistula too small to show up on the Xrays.
But big enough for us...
Doctor...you can't mean that! Not when we've come this far. And if we give up, there'll be no way of saving Mr. Benes 
Dr. Michaels is right. We have no choice.
Air bubbles!... Doctor 
No danger of an embolism. At our reduced scale, they're much too minute to prove fatal to Benes.
Cora, is something wrong with the laser?
I don't know yet, Doctor. And I won't know until I test it.
He's making a fine recovery.
He certainly is. He should be up and about in no time.
Listen...the Heart.
Yes...slowed down agreat deal.
I can't imagine how it possibly could have come loose. I distinctly recall fastening it with all four bolts 
It must have been jarred loose during the whirlpool.
But we just can't leave him in there! What'll happen to him?
We'll know  in the next breath...
That's beside the point now. I don't see the sense of going on.
We must!
With no laser 
You're going out there? With those Antibodies 
No danger of attack, as long as you don't trigger them off by any injury to the System.
Wouldn't it be quicker if we all helped?
Yes, there's no time to spare. And those fibers can be quite tenacious.
Yes, Alan.
Meet Grant. This is Dr. Michaels, Chief of the Medical Section.
Glad to have you with us, Mr. Grant.
[LINE OF DIALOGUE CUT OFF]
I don't agree. Just because he's often difficult 
Difficult? He's impossible!
That's no reason to suspect him of disloyalty.
I'll be standing by. <I'll> know.
And no matter what happens, you're to take orders <only> from Dr. Michaels, understand?
Hello, Grant. Good to see you again.
The Pentagon, wasn't it, General? Only you weren't in that uniform...
Benes... What the devil happened?
The Other Side got to him.
How bad off is he?
Brain injury.
Before or after what he wanted to tell you?
Before he could breathe a word. He's the only scientist who knows the answer to what we're after. That's why we have to operate 
 and why we need you.
<Me>?
I can't even put a BandAid on my finger.
Here's the Surgeon.
Duval. Dr. Peter Duval. Top brain man in the country. Ever hear of him?
Sorry, but I'm rusty on surgeons. Who's the girl?
Cora Peterson, his Technical Assistant. You'll join Duval and the others 
What can I do? Except maybe pass out?
Wish I knew why.
Tell him where he fits in, will you? I've got a few things to check out.
But why take the chance, when there must be other doctors?
We have no choice. Duval's the most skillful brain surgeon in the country, and he's right here, at hand.
I wouldn't know if he's trying to save him or kill him.
Right, sir.
Come along, they'll be operating shortly. See you later, Mike.
His technician okay? In addition to the Looks Department?
No question of her loyalty.
I don't mean to be inquisitive. But this <CMDF>  for all I know it could stand for <Consolidated Mobilization of Female Delinquents>?
<Combined Miniature Deterrent Forces>.
Say that again?
General, I've heard some wild ones. But this takes it.
We can shrink an Army  with all its equipment  and put it in a bottle cap. That's why we call it <Combined Miniature Deterrent Forces>.
If the Other Side ever gets hold of a thing like that...
They have... But we've both got the same problem  lack or control. We can only keep things Miniaturized for exactly sixty minutes. Arter that, everything starts growing back to its original size.
I assume Benes knows how to control it.
That's right. He wanted us to have the secret, and not them. Which is why they tried to kill him.
They're bound to try again. No wonder they want me to stand by during the operation.
And take a little trip with them...
Trip? Where to?
Well, the only way to reach that clot is from inside the Brain. So we've decided to put a Surgical Team and a Crew into a submarine  reduce it way down in size, and inject it into an Artery 
You mean <I'm> going along?
As part of the Crew.
Wait a minute! They can't shrink <me>!
Grant, our Miniaturizer can shrink anything.
But I don't want to be Miniaturized  !
It's only for an hour 
Not even for a minute! General Carter, sir, I'd like you to reconsider your choice. I'm just not the right man for a mission of this kind.
This is Dr. Duval, our Head Surgeon.
Oh yes, I've heard of you, Doctor.
There'll be a team of Surgeons standing by. We're prepared to remove you immediately, should anything go wrong. In any event, you must be out within sixty minutes. After that, you'll be in danger of attack.
Attack? Who  or should I say what from?
Just one, General...
Yes?
Where can I get a cab back to town?
Oh yes, great. The only problem is, he can't remember what he came to tell us.
Can't remember?... What do you mean?
He's blanked out on that one particular point.
Yes, we'd like to get moving.
Why don't you go on. We'll meet you at the Clearance Desk in a few minutes.
Grant's uniquely qualified for this mission. He's a Communications Expert and was a Frogman during the War. Besides, he brought Benes into this country, and the fewer people who know about him, the better. At any rate, you'll find Grant invaluable, should anything go wrong once you're under way. Okay, Don.
Here's the overall Target Area...
Benes' natural defenses. White Corpuscles  Antibodies. Once you begin to grow  and become a menace to the body  you'll trigger them off... MICHAELS With all the unknown factors in the body, I still say risking five lives for one is something we should reconsider 
We understand your concern, but we've made our decision, Doctor. Any questions? Anybody?
Where do we stand?
Medical's ready.
Okay to proceed.
Phase Two.
They've crossed over into the Jugular Vein!
That can't be  there's no direct connection between the two 
Normally not. Unless it's an ArterioVenous Fistula 
But we have no choice! We've got, to take them out!
No...
We still have fiftyone minutes. Leave them in.
But it's hopeless! They can't go back and they can't go on. I tell you there's nothing else we can do but remove them!
Not until the very last second. We must think of something... Something to save the situation.
Doctor...without killing him  how long could we stop his heart?
The less time, the better.
I know that. But what's the maximum?
In his comatose state...and everything slowed down...no more than sixty seconds.
At topspeed...and adjusting distance for Degree of Miniaturization  The sub should get through the Heart in fiftyseven seconds.
That would give us only three seconds to revive him...
What are the problems in stopping the Heart?
Nothing  compared to starting it up again.
<Cardiac Red Alert> we're stopping the Heart.
Message to Proteus.
They're in the Pulmonary Artery.
They'll make up some time, once they get through that and reach the Pleural Cavity. Respiration Post...
Another delay... With only fortytwo minutes left.
It'll be close  but there's still a margin of safety.
Let's find what the devil's holding them up! Contact the Proteus!
I told you to cut down on the sugar.
I can't help it. I'm just weak, I guess.
Time's up... We'll have to take them out immediately.
It means killing Benes... And for all we know, they may have completed the operation! Damn it to hell!
What is it?
That blip we're picking up might only be the radioactive particle. The Proteus may already be destroyed...
What're you getting at?
If I were in their place and I'd run out of time, I'd abandon the ship before I grew to dangerous size... and use the few extra minutes to get out the quickest way possible, on my own...
Along the Optic Nerve to the Eye.
Now how soon can we try Sodium Pentathol?
I'd hold that off awhile.
Well, how about hypnosis? That can't hurt him!
'Scuse me.
I know it can't be easy. Life hasn't changed that much for Reed, Sue and Johnny. At least they can go out in public. But for you? People staring. Whispering behind your back...
If you're trying to cheer me up you're doing a helluva job 
I'm just saying, I know what it's like to lose something you love. To see it slip away, and know it's never coming back.
Reed's gonna fix me up 
For your sake I hope you're right. I'm sorry if that sounds a little skeptical.
Skeptical...?
It's just business.
I think you both know my Director of Genetic Research, Susan Storm.
Surprised I agreed to Reed's proposal?
I understand the <i>business</i> reasons.
Well, when you're looking at your future, it never hurts to find closure about the past.
It's been a good two years, Victor... The company's accomplished so much.
Right, of course, the company... But you see, I've come to realize all the accomplishments in the world mean nothing without someone to share them with 
Uh, Victor, I hope I haven't done something to make you think...
Sue, I've lived my life unafraid of taking big steps. And this is the biggest step yet. If it helps, think of this as a <u>promotion</u>. A merger of sorts... Four little words that can change our lives...
What are you doing?
Raising the shields.
You can't leave them out there.
What's going on?
Victor, are you feeling alright?
Victor, I'm sorry I 
Just <u>find</u> him.
Victor, your scar 
I told you, I'm fine. It's <u>you</u> I'm worried about.
I'm sorry I didn't get a chance to 
Please, no apologies. I've arranged for your things to be moved to one of my condos. You'll have roundthe clock care.
You said it was urgent.
It is. There's something we need to talk about. Something I need to ask you...
Victor, wait, slow down a second. I want you to know I appreciate everything you've done for me, but I just don't 
Susan. What are you doing?
He's working round the clock. But the data needs to be tested, analyzed before 
Same old Reed. All analysis, no action. Wasn't that the problem with you two?
If these molecules aren't stable, they could make us <u>worse</u>, maybe even kill us.
Then why is Reed dragging his feet? Maybe he <u>likes</u> having his prize specimen under glass... It's ironic, isn't it? You're finally the perfect woman for him...because you're his <u>science project</u>.
Please don't make this personal 
Oh, I think you already have.
Victor, we <u>can't do anything</u> until the research is ready.
You're, you've, I mean, how have you bee
Never better.
Those solar winds are flaring, but I factored them into my coordinates and 
I was talking about us. Working together.
Well, uh, based on our history...you can handle the biogenetics, and I'll focus on the molecular physics. Or, uhm, maybe I should take the biotech, you work the microscopes, since you have some background in electropho
Right. That's exactly what I meant.
I, uh, think I remember the number.
It's been changed.
As far as crew, I was hoping Ben could pilot the mission 
Well, he's welcome to ride shotgun, but we already have a pilot on our payroll. You remember my brother Johnny...
Material made from selfregulating unstable molecules. I've been working on a formula for this.
Great minds think alike.
Feeling better?
Yes, thanks.
That's good. That's uh...good.
You always had a way with words. I should be getting back.
You're <u>happy</u> for me and Victor.
I can tell you guys are enjoying what was the best part of our relationship 
Which was?
Passion.
For science.
You are such a dork, Reed... You never got it and never will unless it's explained to you in quantum physics.
Uh, Sue...? I <u>can't</u>.
What? What do you mean you 
Sue...<i>look at your hands</i>.
It has to be the cloud. It's fundamentally altered our DNA.
Let's not jump to conclusions, we need a <i>massive amount of evidence</i> before making that leap.
What?
We need to get past them.
Sue. Your clothes. Lose them.
What...? <u>Oh</u>.
How come Ben can't turn it on and off like us?
That's what we're here to find out.
If it happened to him, then it could...
It's not "invisibility" per se. You're bending the light around you with some kind of malleable force field. That's what you projected on the Bridge.
What about you? You haven't eaten in days. How come you're never on this side of the microscope?
You should be able to bend light around other objects, even people, if you could control your emotional state better 
Excuse me?
I'm saying, if you had a little more self control, you could locate the trigger. Can you remember the exact emotions when 
Anger. Rage. Frustration.
Okay. Is there any way to duplicate that feeling? Some memory or...
I'm sure I can come up with something.
I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I didn't mean to do that... You must think that was some kind of latent hostility or 
What in the world would give me that idea?
I mean, <u>you</u> broke up with <u>me</u>, right?
Are you kidding?
No, I distinctly remember: <u>you</u> walked out <u>my</u> door. Ergo...
Reed. I was ready for the next step, you weren't, ergo, I walked.
I think it was a little more complicated than 
I just wanted to share an apartment. What was so complicated about that?
There were a lot of variables to consider 
No. There weren't. There was <u>you</u>. And <u>me</u>. No variables, no math. It was actually the simplest thing in the world. But your head got in the way... like it always does.
What are you doing?
The plants, from space. Their particles are still charged. With the right amount of energy, those ions could <u>create</u> the elemental profile of the cosmic storm.
If we can build a machine to recreate the storm, we can reverse the polarity 
And reverse the mutations 
Curing countless diseases, not just ours.
But <u>we're</u> the focus, right Reed? <u>Reed</u>...?
Of course. Of course.
And you sure you can control this thing? Last time didn't work out so well.
With the right energy, we can stabilize the storm. Maybe tie into the city grid...
Reed. How close are we to a cure?
No way to know. Without more tests, experiments.
Don't let Victor push you into making a mistake 
He was going to take away all my data, equipment 
Better than your <u>life</u>. Victor's not the one who has to get into that thing. <u>We</u> are.
Which is why I'm working <u>twenty</u> hours a day, checking every variable 
Every variable but <u>yourself</u>. You don't eat, sleep. You can't live in your head like 
<u>I'm</u> not the only one in there. I got you, Vic, Ben, Johnny, all rattling around in there.
I could get Ben to tap into the Baxter's main power to generate enough voltage 
Reed. Shh. Just be quiet. And look up.
Remember our first date here...? God, I was so nervous.
You <u>were</u>?
Of course I was. I'd read all your papers on bioethics. Some of them two times just so I'd have something to say to you.
You know, I bribed the projectionist ten bucks to keep it open late?
I gave him twenty.
You always talked about how you liked the kind of man who could approach you...speak his mind. One who wasn't afraid to tell you what he wanted.
I did. I did, Reed...but I wanted <u>you</u> to be that man.
When I walked out, I waited <u>ten</u> <u>minutes</u> outside your door. Ten. Waiting for you to come find me.
Why didn't you say something?
That would have kinda defeated the purpose. And Reed... I'm saying it now.
I can...make it work.
Reed, stop, you need to rest your 
The power...I need...more power...to control...the storm 
You <u>need</u> a doctor.
Sue, I need some of that anger, rage, frustration 
I'm sure I can come up with something.
I found a broken gasket, from space 
A <u>gasket</u>? Reed, we're at a party.
But dreams don't pay the bills, do they? Same old Reed, the hopeless optimist. Still reaching for the stars, with the world on your back.
You remember in school we talked about working together. That's what I was about to explain...
This isn't going to be a problem, is it?
Not at all.
You back this mission, and I'll sign over a fair percentage of any applications or 
The number's <u>seventyfive</u>. And it's applications <u>and</u> patents.
Funny how things turn out, isn't it?
Hilarious.
Got it. So take a walk, Ben...I'm going to borrow Susan for a second.
Sure.
We've got <u>minutes</u> until it hits, not hours...Victor, that storm's <u>deadly</u>  the radiation's lethal. We need to abort.
Get a grip. Reed. We didn't come all this way to lose our nerve at the first little glitch. Just close the shields...
Ben's still out there 
So reel him in. But we came here to do a <u>job</u>. So let's do it. <u>Quickly</u>.
Come on, Ben, come on...
Reed, we're running out of time.
Not until Ben is back inside!
It's too late for him, and soon it'll be too late for all of us.
Just a little banged up. A couple scrapes. Why?
Ben did this.
<u>Ben</u> did this?
He's had some kind of...reaction to exposure from the cloud. And he's not the only one.
I'm starting to wonder the same thing... How much do you know about what happened to you?
Not much. We need to run tests to see the extent of the damage.
Didn't go as <u>planned</u>? It was a <u>catastrophe</u>. You ruined the lives of four people 
<u>I</u> ruined? With all due respect, I told you to abort 
<u>Abort</u>? Reed, I put my company, my name, billions of dollars on the line, and I will <u>not</u> let you make me look like a fool 
Victor, if we could understand what happened to us 
I don't want to <u>understand</u> it. This isn't one of your science projects. I just want to <u>fix</u> it. <u>Fast</u>!
What are you doing here?
What I <u>should</u> have done a long time ago. Applications and patents, Reed. This all belongs to me.
But I'm not done with the machine 
Which is precisely the <u>point</u>. Analysis is over. It's time for <u>action</u>. My men could have mass produced this by now.
If Reed's right, then this little trip will double our stock offering.
And if he's not...?
Reed's <u>always</u> right. Good thing he doesn't always know what he's got...
They're ready for you, sir.
Showtime.
Our numbers are through the roof. The IPO's tracking at fifty, sixty a share. The bank's five times oversubscribed 
It's not just the money. I could make money in my sleep.
Then what is it?
History, Leonard. <u>History</u>. Everything else is conversation... How's the other matter?
Leonard, how's the feed?
Recording, sir. We see you perfectly.
How's the IPO?
Stable. We're looking at low twenties. It's a good number, considering the fallout from 
Reed's disaster. You know, I half think he did this to me on purpose.
Sir, I'm sure he wouldn't put himself 
Get me on the AM shows, Larry King, cover of the Journal... I've <u>got to</u> do something about this scar. Make sure they only shoot my right side.
Actually, uh, people seem to think the scar "humanizes" you.
And that's a <u>good</u> thing?
You know, maybe you should get some rest 
Later. First, I've got some unfinished business. A deal that needs closing...
Sir, I've always wondered... Why <u>Sue</u>? You could have any woman in the world but 
<u>That's</u> why. Because I could have any <u>other</u> woman... You know, when they asked Caesar "why England," he said, "because it's not <u>mine</u>."
Make sure you find Ben, bring him back here. And keep it quiet. I don't need this to hit the press.
Yes sir. You've got the Mayor at eight, then a ninethirty interview with the Journal 
Front page?
Top left, like you asked. Today Wall Street. Tomorrow, who knows...maybe Washington.
The synthetics act as a second skin, adapting to your individual needs to 
Keep the hot side hot, and the cool side cool!
Apparently I can disappear.
<u>Please</u> tell me you go silent too.
Flame on, flame off. Flame on, flame off 
Johnny.
Stop it.
Okay, "mom."
What is that <i>thing</i>?
I think that thing is Ben.
Wait. You mean there's chance we could be fullon247fantastic?
Grow up, Johnny. You want to run around <u>on fire</u> for the rest of your life?
Is that a trick question? C'mon, I can't be the only one who thinks this is cool.
You're really cramping my style here.
You were at 4000 Kelvin. Any hotter, you're approaching supernova 
Sweet.
That's the temperature of the <u>sun</u>.
Uh, we call my sister the invisible girl...the Invisible Girl.
<u>Girl</u>...?!
I'm driving.
Dude. That's my sister.
You're gonna pay for that, Pebbles. What?!
You gave us <u>names</u>? What are you, the "face" of the Fantastic Four now?
You two need a timeout.
Blockhead started it!
Johnny? Did you see Ben?
Yeah, for the last time, I hope. I'm done with this freak show. I'm moving back to the real world.
Is that what you call it? "<i>Real</i>"?
At least it beats living in a lab like somebody's science project.
Johnny, slow down. <u>Think</u>. You know mom didn't raise us to 
Look around, sis! <u>She's not here</u>. So you can stop talking to me like I'm your little boy 
As soon as you stop <u>acting</u> like one. Come on, you're <u>smarter</u> than this. You think those people out there <u>care</u> about you? You're just a <u>fad</u> to them.
I'm sorry, sis, for leaving you guys 
No, <u>I'm</u> sorry, for pushing you out.
What are you doing 
Sis. Let <u>me</u> take care of <u>you</u> for once.
But Johnny...you <u>can't fly</u>.
And where do we think we're going?
I don't know if "we've" noticed, but the sickest runs this side of the Alps are <i>right outside that window</i> 
You're hot!
So are you!
I mean, you feel a little feverish.
I've never felt better in my life. When do you get off work?
My shift ends at four, but I couldn't 
Meet me at 4:01, top of the run. That'll give you a minute to freshen up.
Me likey.
Stay right. Left is trouble.
I though we went over this.
Last one down springs for room service.
You're on fire!
Not this again 
No: You're <u>ON FIRE</u>!
Victor's right. Johnny, get to the command center. Close the shields.
What about you?
He's not responsive 
Ben! Ben!
Now what is up with <i>that</i>?
The cloud has fundamentally altered our DNA.
Cool. What'd it do to you guys?
Oh, you dawg you. Better not be my nurse!
Ben, are you there?
This is wrong in so many ways.
You've been working out.
Ben Grimm is a genuine American hero who's been through a terrible orde
What he's trying to say is: every team needs a mascot...
Twenty? From outside the place looks a lot taller.
Oh, it is.
We should stay here until we can define the extent of our changes...
This place is deluxe. You got cable?
...and figure out how to reverse them. Let me show you to your rooms.
Back it down, Johnny!
I can go hotter!
Not only could you kill yourself, but you could set fire to Earth's atmosphere and destroy all human life as we know it.
Gotcha. Okay. Supernova bad.
Is there something about flames? About flaming, that you 
What are you trying to say? Just because I dress well and like to dance 
What? No. I'm trying to figure out why we each ended up with different symptoms.
Oh, well that's easy: I'm hot. You're...well, you're a little limp. Sue's easy to see through. And Ben's always been a hardass. Why aren't you writing this down?
He's right. These costumes are... missing something. I can't put my finger on it 
They're not costumes.
That's what I'm trying to calculate. And it's not rubber. It's muscle, tendon. I seem to have the ability to manipulate the malleability of my molecular structure and redistribute my density to 
Right, whatever, have fun.
You need to control yourself and <u>think</u> before you 
Act. Here we go again. Reed, what if we got these gifts for a <u>reason</u>? What if we have some, you know...like, calling?
A higher calling like getting girls and making money?
Johnny. SUPERNOVA.
But all these people...
<u>Now</u>.
Your tissue, your organs, your entire biophysical structure is changing. Every system is still functioning, somehow 
And they're changing into...
I don't really know. A compound organicmetallic alloy. Stronger than titanium or carbon steel. Harder than diamonds 
Like the shields Reed said would protect us. How long?
At this rate, the infection should be complete in two, maybe three weeks 
What do you mean "complete"?
I wish I could tell you. I can't pretend to know what we're dealing with here. I'll notify the CDC and 
What?
The Center for Disease Control. If this thing is contagious 
But...this disease...is progressive... degenerative...
That's terrible news...
Way to not overthink it. So when do we leave?
I'll schedule the launch. Call me in the morning to talk about resources and crew.
I can handle the ship. I can even handle Mr. Blonde Ambition. But I don't know if I should be flying or playing Vegas in these suits. Who the hell came up with them?
Victor did.
We can monitor the cloud's approach and observe the tests from here.
Is it safe?
I can only stay for one drink, Ben. I've got to meet with Victor.
Wouldn't want to keep Vic waiting.
We need to give you a physical, so we know what got zapped.
Well why didn't you say so? You want me to lift some weights or something?
You look like an eighties rock band.
The suit will stretch. You should try it 
I wouldn't be caught dead in that.
He didn't.
Oh, he did.
<u>What</u> did he do to the uniform?!
He didn't mean it. You know Johnny. He's always been a hothead 
It's not him. It's <u>them</u>. I can't live like this.
Just give Reed a little more time. You know how he works  analyzing every little step before he takes one 
It's easy for you to be patient.
No, it's not. I thought I was done waiting for Reed... We're all in this together now, Ben.
<u>Where is Reed</u>?
Victor must've taken him.
What are <u>you</u> doing here?
I'm worried about you.
About me? How sweet.
Come on. Let me buy you something to eat. Looks like you could use the company.
Ben, come in.
What is this? Where's Reed?
Where do you <u>think</u>? With <u>Sue</u>.
What do you want, Vic?
To help you. I've run every test known to man. And they all yield the same result: <u>the machine is ready</u>.
Reed said it'd be weeks till 
He <u>also</u> said we'd avoid that storm in space. And we know how that turned out.
He couldn't generate enough power for the machine to reach critical mass. Yet another mistake for "Mr. Fantastic."
And you can? Power it up?
I'll be watching over you.
Just get back soon, or I start looking for a new groom.
Soon as I'm back, I'm gonna trade that in for a bigger rock.
I don't care about rocks, I care about <u>you</u>. You bring him back in one piece, or you can forget being Best Man.
Deb... It's me. I need you to step out front.
Out front? You home, baby? I got a surprise for you.
Ben?
Don't come any closer for a sec. This is gonna be kind of a shock... You remember when we said "together forever no matter what"?
Baby, you're scaring me.
Oh my Ggg. What did you...do to Ben?
Deb, it's me. It's still me.
What did you wish for, honey?
I already got it. Everything I want.
What the hell you smiling at? Just keep your mouth shut, and your mind on those SMBs 
Actually, the engines are SMEs. Hydrogenbase, carbon propellant. Couple generations past your last ride. I'm not as dumb as you look.
If you behave, maybe next time daddy'll let you drive.
Keep talking, there won't <u>be</u> a next time.
Please tell me your dawg's not trying to rekindle things with my sister.
'Course not. Strictly business.
Yeah, well, his eyes say different.
Hey, two hearts got busted last time. Maybe she's not over it either.
Let's see: you got Victor, stud of the year, more coin than God? Or Reed, the world's dumbest smart guy worth less than a postage stamp. Hmmm, it's a tossup.
Put your tiny little mind at ease.
Don't you wander off, boy.
Where...where am I?
Back on Earth. Victor's medical facility... We're in quarantine.
Reed? ... Sue?
They're fine. Everybody <i>else</i>...is fine.
What's wrong with me?
I swear to you they've done everything humanly possible. The best plastic surgeons in the world, Ben. You had the best 
Give me a mirror...
They said that's not such a good idea, the shock alone could 
Give me the god damn mirror!
Hey! That's a <u>prototype</u>!
Go back to the drawing board.
The machine works. And Vic's gone Mister Hyde on us 
Really? With a name like Von <u>Doom</u>? Never saw <u>that</u> one coming.
No more cracks about how I look.
Hey, I'm Mr. Sensitivity now. Clear the way, wide load coming through.
Good thing it ain't workin... Reed, what are we doing here? This guy's fastfood, stripmall science 
This wasn't our first stop, in case you forgot NASA. And Victor's not that bad. He's just a little... Larger than life.
He's financed some of the biggest breakthroughs of this century.
You'd never know it.
I can't take this.
Ben. This is business. Just work.
What about his first born?
Ben, the money's not important. We could <u>save lives</u>.
He <u>knew</u> about NASA. What if he made the call to shut us down 
Ben, think about all the people we can help if this works 
Maybe you should think about <u>yourself</u> for once. You always let this guy push you round 
We got what we wanted. That's <u>enough</u>.
I know, I know. I'm just worried about what <u>he</u> wants... Speaking of which...
Can't do it. I cannot do it.
External SRBs, orbital system engines. Its just like the shuttles you flew in 
No. I cannot take orders from that underwear model. That wingnut washed out of NASA for sneaking two Victoria Secret wannabes into a flight simulator.
Youthful high spirits.
They crashed it into a wall. A flight <i>simulator</i>.
I'm sure he's matured since then.
When have I asked you to do something you absolutely said you could not do?
Five times.
I had it at four.
This makes five.
Isn't that <u>your</u> speech?
He's made a few changes.
This is your dream, Reed. You should be the one up there.
Victor's better at these things.
The shields on the station should protect us.
<u>Should</u>?
I ain't done arranging your flowers, egghead.
Ben. This is serious. <u>Turn around</u>.
How long was I out?
Three days. I was worried about you. How are you feeling?
Solid.
I don't know. I just keep going over and over the numbers.
Reed. Even <u>you</u> can't compute every little thing.
I should have done more, run more tests 
You go through something like this, makes you appreciate having the right woman in your life.
Yeah, you and Debbie and perfect 
Reed, I'm not talking about Debbie.
What? Come on. She's got a good thing with Victor 
I'm sorry, did that cosmicbath loosen your screws?
He's smart, powerful, successful 
Well maybe <u>you</u> should date him.
Are you alright?
I think I need to lie down. Bad shrimp.
What the !
Ben. Are you okay?
Am <u>I</u> okay?! You wanna explain that?!
We had a tough year.
Yeah, nine years straight.
You got a chisel round here?
If we're going to identify the source of the mutation, we need to isolate your recombinant DNA so we can activate positional genomes.
Okay. I've uh, got some questions, from Sue. That she thought might be better coming from me... Can you, you know, go to the bathroom...like normal...
Yeah. You don't wanna know the details.
Ben, I'm afraid I've got to ask 
Not unless you want that clipboard stretched up your 
Okay. We'll skip that question.
It's about to be a broken face.
This isn't permanent, Johnny. We need to be careful until we're normal again.
Ben 
Oh, you remember my name do you? You happen to remember what you <u>swore</u> to do with every breath in your body?
We're working as hard as we can 
Yeah. I can tell. Victor was right.
Glad "nothing" could take you away from your work.
Ben, I don't know if this thing'll change us back or make us worse. I need you to be patient for a little while longe
Time for <u>your</u> lesson, Vic. Chem 101: what happens when you <u>supercool</u> hot metal...? Ben...
Got it, teach.
Ben, I've been crunching the numbers on the machine. I think if we can rework the power settings...
Forget it, egghead. I'm good as is.
I don't think She's real big on hate.
You wouldn't say that, if you could see me.
Such a sad face... You know, sometimes being different isn't a bad thing.
Trust me, this ain't one of those times.
How'd you know it was me?
I'm blind, not deaf. Wanna come in?
I'm not really dressed for a party.
Relax, it's casual.
No, I mean...I'm a little...dusty...
Those yours too?
My stepdad's. I'm strictly into stone. I was wondering when you'd walk by.
We're going to have to work on your touch.
I like the sound of that.
You know, you could'a run an ad in the personals.
"Sensual blind chick seeks threeton, rockhard heman for deep spiritual relationship."
This ain't permanent. My friend Reed's working on a cure...I think.
You don't know what it's like out there. Walking around like some kind of circus freak. People staring, whispering 
I wouldn't know anything about that.
I mean...
Tell me. When you grew up in Brooklyn, how many astronauts did you know? You went your own way then. You didn't listen to people. So why start now...?
Do you want me to look for the box or call the airline?
Hey, kind of under a little pressure here.
Hey, kind of giving up Christmas day for my exboss here.
You didnt seem to mind offering to help me on Christmas day when you were unwrapping that Prada bag I gave you.
Maybe its by the wardrobe boxes...
Ill go for a cup of coffee!
Yes!
I found it!
Congratulations. The La Guardia flights canceled but I got you out of Kennedy on United at nine. Am I good or what?
Did you really mean what you said about Tuscany?
Of course I did.
Last night was great...
You are an amazing lover. You should be giving motivational seminars.
Thanks. You're not bad yourself...
I want to see you again.
I'd like that, too.
Tonight.
It's Christmas Eve, Jack.
So we'll get egg nog.
I have to go to my parents' house out in Jersey. Would you like to come?
Jersey? You know what the traffic's gonna be like?
I'm taking the train...
Don't you have anywhere to go?
I've got plenty of places to go.
Maybe I can try and sneak away some time tomorrow morning... Okay?
If it's something you feel strongly about.
Thats totally see through...
Merry Christmas...
Christmas? It cant be Christmas...
For the money, theyre hands down the best radial we carry...
Okay, Ill take them...
You wont regret it... Tommy! Set Mr. Conlin up with four B.F. Goodrich GForce T/As... ...and give him ten percent off for having the best costume...
Can I help you?
Is Kate here? Does Kate live here?!
Kate? No, theres no one here named Kate. Is that good enough for you?
Damn...damn...damn...
Hey, are you okay?
No...Im not...
Is there anything I can do for you?
Hey, my wifes in the kitchen. You got a cigarette?
Im sorry, no...
Peter. I don't see you rushing home to trim the tree.
That's because I'm a heartless bastard who only cares about money.
And God love you for it.
I just got a call from Terry Haight. Bob Thomas is nervous...
That'll happen when you're about to spend thirty billion dollars on some aspirin...
Someone's gonna have to nurse him through this.
Why are you staring at my breasts, Peter?
I need you, tiger..
Where is he?
Aspen.
Hey Peter, lemme ask you a question. An old girlfriend calls you out of the blue on Christmas Eve...
You suddenly having trouble getting dates?
Not by a long shot.
Then leave it in the past. Old flames are like old tax returns. You keep `em in the file cabinet for three years and then you cut `em loose.
Peter Lassiter...
Do I know you?
Not exactly. Ive seen you on CNBC. You look taller in real life...
...were really more of a boutique operation, as you can see...
But youre not interested in boutique dollars... I get it...
He certainly has your number, Alan.
Youre a little tougher, Peter.
For one thing, you like expensive things.
Thats easy. Youve seen my car.
Okay...you smoke Hoyo de Monterreys. Youre a scotch man, single malt, not because its trendy but because youve been doing it for forty years, and you stay with what works. You have two great loves in your life, your horses and this company. You wept openly the day the Dow hit ten thousand...
Mrs. Peterson.
Hello Jack. You dont have to stop singing on my account...
Its because Im shy, Betty. So, when are you going to leave that old corpse Mr. Peterson and run away with me?
You know you could never satisfy me the way he does...
No...
Thank you, Betty. I know if I can just sleep this off, Ill be fine...
And sleep you shall. Noblesse oblige is not dead. Not yet anyway...Come, lets get you some help. Surely there must be a shelter somewhere in this city.
A shelter?! Im the richest guy in the building...Ive got twice the square footage you have!
Every one of these songs will remind you of me in a slightly different way...
All in one tape?
I also put side two of London Calling on there...
I have a bad feeling about this.
About the plane? What do you think its gonna crash? Dont say that...
I know weve talked about this a thousand times and we both agree that going to London is the right thing to do. But in my heart... this feels wrong.
Dont go, Jack...
You mean dont go at all? What about my internship?
Believe me I know what an incredible opportunity this is for you...
For us, Kate.
Right, for us. But...Im afraid that if you get on that plane...
What?
Go. Im sorry, you should just go...
No, youre right. What are we doing?
We're being responsible. Go. Get on the plane.
I can't seem to let go of you...
You hear me complaining about that?
Are you okay?
Yeah...fine.
What kind of man does that!?
I dont know! Please stop yelling at me!
Where were you?
I was in the city.
The city? New York City? Why?
Because thats where I live.
Jack...dont even start...
Look, you dont understand. I woke up here...and this is very strange ...this is not my house...
Look, we dont have time for this right now, well talk about it later. Now get dressed... Youre not wearing that to the Thompsons party. I dont care how hilarious you think it is...
Party? Oh no, I cant go to a party...
You look forward to this party all year. Whats with you today?
Trust me on this Kate. I really dont think going to a party is the right move for me at the present time.
What are you doing?
Telling my mother she doesnt have to stay with the kids.
Why not?
Because youll be here.
Christ... Where the hell is the bathroom?
Funny, Jack. Im laughing on the inside.
Yes, Im fine. Its just this god awful football phone! Who has a phone like this anyway?!
Uh huh...
Jack...
Pro bono. You dont get paid at all. Nobody makes a dime. Well, bravo...
Here you go...
Youre kidding me...
Shes your dog, Jack.
No, shes not.
Fine, shes the kids dog. Lets go wake Josh, see if he wants to walk her.
But its twenty degrees outside...
Youre having a bad day, Ill go with you...actually, theres no way in hell youre gettin me back out there...
Hello!
...my feet are hurtin...
HEY!
Uh...that babys crying...
And...?
Jack. I said the kids are asleep...
Well thats just great...those little monkeys can be a real handful...
Hey! I was watching that!
I thought we had a deal about you watching CNBC in bed.
Im working on a new deal now...
Wait a second. You want me, dont you?
That is the general idea, yes...
Shouldnt we grab some dinner first? Maybe a bottle of wine...?
Its ten thirty, Jack. By eleven youre gonna be sprawled out on the bed snoring your head off. We dont have time for wining and dining.
Whatever you say...honey.
Thanks, Jack...
No, Im serious...youre really stunning...
This is good stuff, Jack, keep it coming...
I mean back in college, you were a very pretty girl, theres no question about that. But this... ...youve really grown into a beautiful woman...
How can you do that?
Do what?
Look at me like you havent seen me every day for the last twelve years...
I mean...wow...off the charts great.
Its an unbelievable thing. Wearing this suit actually makes me feel like a better person. Im gonna buy it...
$2,400?! Are you out of your mind?
She got those shoes...
Those shoes were twenty five dollars. Cmon, take it off. Well go to the food court and get one of those funnel cakes you like.
No?
Do you have any idea what my life is like?
Excuse me?
I wake up in the morning covered in dog saliva...I drop the kids off, spend eight hours selling tires retail...retail, Kate.
I pick up the kids, walk the dog, which by the way, carries the added bonus of carting away her monstrous crap...I play with the kids, take out the garbage, get six hours of sleep if Im lucky, and then it starts all over again...and why is it that I always have to drive everyone everywhere? I spend practically my entire day in that slow as hell minivan listening to Raffi tapes and trying to figure out how the cup holders work...Im sick of it.
Really.
Whats in it for me? Where are my Mary Janes?
Its sad to hear your life is such a disappointment to you, Jack.
I cant believe its not a disappointment to you! Jesus, Kate, I couldve been a thousand times the man I became. How could you do this to me? How could you let me give up on my dreams like this?!
Look, Im sorry. Im sorry I was such a saint before and Im such a prick now. Maybe Im just not the same guy I was when we got married...
Maybe youre not. The Jack Campbell I married wouldnt need a $2400 suit to make himself feel better about his life, but if thats what its gonna take, then buy it. Just buy the goddamn suit ...we can take the money out of the kids college fund.
Well...Annie for one.
Surprise. Were pregnant... Yeah...that mustve been...I mean that was very unexpected. But what are you gonna do, right?
I think it worked out okay, dont you?
Sure. I really like Annie.
Good, Jack. Maybe well keep her.
No, I love Annie. We had a lot of good times, didnt we?
We were young... Remember that little place on Charles Street we used to go to?
Charles Street? In the Village? When we were living in Greenwich Village...? Great times. Whyd we ever leave?
You cant really raise a kid in an apartment in the Village...
The trek out to the hospital every day didnt help either... You were great. Surviving the heart attack was one thing...
You had a heart attack?
Jack, stop that. I'm still mad at you... ...who knows what wouldve happened if you hadnt stepped in at the store.
Thats why I work for Big Ed?
Our life in a nutshell...
If you want to look at it that way...
How would you look at it?
How was the game, honey?
Long, boring, and generally pretty sad. Arnie seemed to enjoy it... Hey, wheres that chocolate cake...?
You mean this chocolate cake?
Thats my piece. I was saving it because I got nauseated from that store bought chicken.
Cmon.
Sorry, Jack. Its too important to me.
You want the cake!?
I want it...
Thank you...
Its good, right?
Say it, Jack...
What...?
Cmon, you know what I like to hear...
Yeah, baby, I know what you like to hear...
Then say it...just say it to me...!
Oh yeah, youre a bad girl, baby... You make me so hot...Im gonna take you to that special place...
Not it...?
Nice, Jack. Youre sweeping me off my feet.
What? You make me hot...
Jack.
Wait a minute. Youre my wife?
Maybe I should wait...
No, open it...
I found it at an outlet store. I know its a knockoff, but I think itll look great on you...
Zeena...
You really are incredible...
Enjoy it, sweetheart...
Heres the thing. I really hadnt planned on giving you your...uh... anniversary gift until tonight. You know, anniversarys good all day...
What are you talking about? You never wait all day. You can barely wait until its light out.
I know that, but...
You actually forgot our anniversary.
Ill fix it. Ill go out right now and get you something. Ill make it right.
Jack...can we afford all this?
Whats the difference? Im taking my baby out for our anniversary, damn the costs...
How do you even know about this place?
You are so not off the hook yet, slick.
But Im gettin close, right?
I need to tell you something.
Okay...
I think it may help us but theres a slight chance it could make things worse.
Now Im worried...just say it. Whatever it is well deal with it.
Are you sure?
I used to be so sure about everything, you know? I knew exactly who I was and what I wanted. Then one morning I woke up and suddenly it was all different...
Worse, you mean...
No. Well, maybe a few things. But mostly just different...
I never used to be like this, Kate. I had it all figured out. No doubts, no regrets.
And now...?
Now...I dont...
I think its good to be a little unsure about who you are. Its very human.
But you always seem so certain.
Cmon, Jack, you think there arent mornings when I wake up and wonder what the hell Im doing in New Jersey...
Thats a big one for me, too.
My office is a dump, I answer my own phone...and youve seen my pay check.
Your pay check is a disgrace to pay checks.
I mean yes, I help people that need it...
I guess...some of them are probably faking.
God, sometimes I think it would be so nice not to have to stretch ground beef or maybe drive a car with a CD player...
Imagine having a life where everything was easy...where you asked for things and people just brought them to you...
Its wonderful...
Good things...
What are you sure about?
You know champagne makes me do crazy things.
Ill just full yours up to the top. Happy anniversary, sweetheart.
I dont know how you did it, hoss, but you pulled it off.
Im out of the doghouse?
Way out...
Youre so...beautiful...
I already told you you were gonna get lucky, Jack...
My god, all this time...I never stopped loving you...
Thats all I wanted to hear...
I could stay here forever...
I dont think Id fight you on that one...
Pretty incredible, isnt it?
Its like a museum.
So whats the big surprise? You didnt rent this place for the weekend, did you?
Think bigger.
For the week?
This place is a perk, Kate.
A perk for what?
A company called P.K. Lassiter and Associates Investment House uses it to attract new executives...
Youre talking to their new Vice President of Mergers and Acquisitions.
What are you talking about, Jack?
Are you out of your mind?
I dont think so. This is going to be a better life for all of us, honey. Well put Annie and Josh in private schools...
Annie goes to a great school.
Im talking about the best schools in the country here, Kate...
Jack, what could you possibly be thinking? What about my job?
This is New York City, its like the needy people capital of the world. Those Jersey clients of yours arent a tenth as pathetic as the ones you could get here...
I cant believe you want to move back into the city. I thought the reason we left was because we didnt want to raise the kids here?
No, this is the center of the universe. If I were living in Roman times, I would live in Rome, where else? Today, America is the Roman Empire and New York is Rome itself. John Lennon.
Jack.
I can do that. I want to do that. For all of us. I need to do that as a man... Think about it. No more lousy restaurants, no more clipping coupons, no more shoveling snow...
Then get a goddamn snow blower!
Dont do that...
Look, youre making this into something its not. This isnt a referendum on our lives, Kate. Its a step forward... Dont you see? Im talking about us finally having a life other people envy.
Its been interesting, thats for sure.
But Ive done some good things too, havent I?
Youve been Jack Campbell. And thats always a good thing...
I need you to remember me, Kate. How I am right now, right this very moment. I need you to put that image in your heart and keep it with you, no matter what happens.
Are you okay, Jack?
Please, just promise me youll do that. You have to promise, Kate. Because if you dont, then its like it never happened and I dont think I could live with that.
I promise, Jack...
Promise me again...
I promise. Come to bed, honey.
Kate...
Jack...God, its been so long...You look...
You look great.
Its good to see you...
I'm sorry...
Dont worry about it, Jack...
Whats going on?
Im moving to Paris...it was right here... Its a box marked Jack. I put it in the stack for the Salvation Army...
Paris?
Youre moving...
Uh huh. To Paris. My firm has an office there and Im going to be heading it up.
To Paris. Paris, France.
Thats the one...
So youre not at a non profit firm?
Not with what they pay me...
Youre not married, are you?
No, Jack, I never got married. You?
Not exactly... Can we just take a minute here? Maybe get a cup of coffee or something...?
You cant go!
Jesus, Jack...
Dont get on that plane!
Jack.
Please. Lets just go have a cup of coffee. Thats all Im asking for. Im sure theres another flight to Paris tonight.
What do you want from me? You want me to tell you everything that happened was okay?
Dont do this, Jack... But he continues...
We have two kids, Annie and Josh...
Merry Christmas, Mr. Campbell.
Howd you do this year, Tony?
About four grand. And a bottle of twenty five year old scotch from Mrs. Johnson in 9D. Im putting it all in commercial paper like you said.
Just until the Deutsche Mark turns...
Sorry, pal. Entrance is for residents and guests only...
What are you talking about? Its me, Jack Campbell. Penthouse C. I put you into commercial paper!
Uhhuh...
Do I have a private office somewhere in the building?
Uh...sure Jack... Right back there...
Thank you.
...I was the number one junior sales associate at E.F. Hutton in 1988. Did you know that?
No, I didnt...thats great.
Thats the kind of thing you can really build on...
Uh huh...
I mean sales has always been a feeder for M and A, always...
Here we are, mag wheels... Hey Jack, are you sure youre okay?
Well, Im just a little confused right now about why I work here...
Kates on two, Jack. Nice ride...
If youre into that kind of conspicuous consumption...
You want me to handle him? I think Im ready...
Why dont you let me take this one, Kenny?
Okay, chief.
I'm thinking I might walk tonight, Frank.
Nice night for it. I'll have Louis send your car home.
Merry Christmas to you, sir...
Thanks. To you too...
Whoa, whoa, whoa...hold it right there...
Frank. Wheres Alan Mintz? Is he here yet?
Mr. Mintz? I dont think so...buildings closed pal. Youll have to come back tomorrow.
Look, I dont know whats going on here but I am Senior Vice President of this company.
I dont care who you are. Its Christmas and like I told you the building is closed.
Maybe youre not hearing me. I am Jack Campbell... Right here. Jack Campbell, President...
Like the dress...?
Its lovely...
I thought I saw you notice it at the kids recital.
Finger food...?
I dont think so, thank you...
Cmon, as soon as I put them down, youre gonna grab a couple...you always do...
Mushroom puffs arent the only thing I do well...
Well do whatever it is you do well, and just...just do it. Excuse me...
Evelyn, right?
Very funny. I saw you out there on lane five. What do you have the flu or something?
Something like that.
Need a nurse?
Youre a nurse?
Are we...?
Are we what, Jack?
Is there something going on between us?
Are we finally being honest?
It would help me if we were.
Okay, youre right, weve been dancing around this for years...
...06...14...18...48...right there. Four numbers...that's two hundred and thirty eight dollar... Merry Christmas and shit...
Ticket bad. You draw in lines with pencil.
What're you talkin' about?
You draw lines with pencil! I know about this!
What!? Look at the ticket...!
Get out, I call 911.
You leave now. Take ticket somewhere else. Next customer in line...!
You first generation, xenophobic, moneytheistic, hot pastrami sandwich making...
Get out!
DO YOU WANNA DIE?!
No.
Yes you do...
Look, I'm talking about a business deal here. I buy the ticket for two hundred, take it to a store where the guy behind the counter... ...doesn't have a death wish ...I just made myself a quick thirty eight dollars.
Like I said, it's a business deal...
Damn, you are the real thing...
How'd you know my name was Jack?
I call all you white guys "Jack."
You know you seem pretty relaxed for a guy who just had a gun pulled on him.
There's no way I was gonna die in that deli... Let's just say I've been on a lucky streak lately.
A lucky streak, huh?
So you're telling me, you've got a gun to your head and you don't think for one second, what if this, what if that, maybe I shouldn't do this, I shoulda done that.
I don't do that. That's just not for me...
Okay, Jack. Nice doing business with you... Cash is about to take off...
Hey...
What do you want to carry that gun around for, anyway? You're just gonna do something you'll regret...
You want to talk about regrets, you're talking to the wrong person.
I'm just saying that you seem like a smart guy. At a certain point you're gonna do something, and then there's no turning back...
Yeah, in most cases that'd be true.
I mean there must be programs out there, opportunities...
Wait a minute, wait a minute... you're tryin' to save me?
Oh man, you're serious... This man thinks I need to be saved!
Everyone needs something.
Yeah? What do you need?
Me?
You just said everyone needs something.
I've got everything I need.
Wow. It must be great being you. You got it all.
Look, I'm not saying you'd be able to do it without some hard work...
You still think this is about me, don't you?
Sure it's about you. But it's about society, too.
Oh man, I'm gonna enjoy this one... Just remember, Jack, you did this. You brought this on yourself...
Miss me, Jack?
Thats my car! You stole my car!
Its a callable asset seized in accordance with the acquisition bylaws of your altfate contract...
What?!
Basically, its my car now. Get in.
Might wanna fasten your seat belt, Jack...
What the hell is happening to me?!
Look, I dont know what youre getting so worked up about, you did this...you brought this on yourself.
Brought what on myself?! I didnt do anything!
No? Cmon, Jack...Ive got everything I need, I dont have regrets, thats just not for me... sound familiar?
You mean because you thought I was cocky Im now on a permanent acid trip?!!
Everyone else in that store is a statue, they see their lives passing in front of their eyes, but not you. Youre making a business deal...
Give me my goddamn life back!
You? What about me? Im working hard for you here, Jack. On Christmas too! Now you did a good thing last night, intervening that way. I was moved...
Please. Just tell me whats happening to me. In plain English. None of that mumbo jumbo...
Its a glimpse, Jacko.
I glimpse? A glimpse of what!? What glimpse?! Glimpse!
Look, eventually, everybody gets one...some of em take a couple seconds... ...some of em take a lot longer...
I asked you a direct question! A glimpse of what?!
Figure it out. You got plenty of time.
How much time?!
As long as it takes to figure it out. Which, in your case, could be considerable.
Look, I just want my life back. Now whats it gonna take? You wanna talk turkey? Lets talk turkey! How much money...?
Do I look like I need your money. It doesnt work like that and I cant tell you why.
Why not?
Because you got to figure it out for yourself. Are you listening to me?
Figure it out? Figure what out?!
Thats it? Thats all I get?! A glare?!
Look Jack, in my experience the best way people deal with this is to just relax and breathe through it...let it come to you.
Whats this, a signal? Will you come whenever I ring it?
Do I look like I live in a bottle?
But what do I do?
Look Jack Im late. Id love to help you out some more but I gotta go handle my business... Happy trails.
You cant do this. You cant keep coming in and out of peoples lives, messing things up...
Cmon, Jack...
Ive got kids, Im going home...
You know what the word glimpse means, J? Its by nature an impermanent thing.
Wheres my car?! Wheres my Ferrari!?
What the hell are you talking about? Whats he talking about?
Look, can I just borrow your car?! I promise itll be returned!
The Caddy? Why dont you take your own damn car!
Got a minute, Jack?
Ive got all the time in the world...
Cmon Jack...
I mean it. From what I can tell, were a mom and pop operation, were already overextended in sales, and any price advantage we could offer would easily be matched by a larger supplier...
I know, I moved the Barcalounger into the corner. Its throwin everybody off. What do you think?
Great room...
Were friends, arent we?
Maybe I dont say it enough but you moving in next door to me...
Im having kind of a bad day.
I read somewhere that the suicide rate doubles during the holidays...
What am I saying? You dont need to hear that... All I meant was a lot of people have a hard time dealing with all the forced reverie, thats all. Is that you?
Is it...?
Trouble at work?
I dont think so.
Its not Kate, is it?
You see, its like were in each others heads...
Kates my wife...
Look, you fit the profile exactly. Thirties, house, kids, financial responsibilities. You start thinking...this isnt the life I dreamt about. Wheres the romance, wheres the joie de vivre? Suddenly, every lingerie ad in the Newark Star Ledger represents a life you cant have...
Its just two kids, right?
Damn...
Jesus, Jack, this is a league match, for gods sake!
Wheres your follow through? Wheres your stance?
Hey, Im doing the best I can... Id like to see you hit a squash ball after seventeen beers...
Youre right. Why am I so competitive!? Compensation, I guess. Look, just focus, Jack. You can still pick up the spare...
Hey Jack, youre all flush. I guess that seventyone took a lot outta you.
I just saw Evelyn Thompson.
She is relentless.
She wants to have an affair with me.
She said that?
Pretty much.
Oh yeah... What is it about you?
So could you write down her exact address?
Whoa...whoa...wait a second, Jack. Youre not actually gonna cheat on Kate?
It wouldnt really be cheating... Its complicated.
Look, maybe Im not as good a consigliere as you are but you have to trust me on this one. A little flirtations harmless but youre playing with fire here. The Fidelity Bank and Trust is a tough creditor. You make a deposit somewhere else, they close your account forever.
Im telling you, those rules dont apply to me, Arn.
Screw the rules. Im talking about the choice.
Cmon, Evelyn Thompsons got no class. She doesnt marry Dr. Steve, the womans living in a trailer.
Hey, is that really necessary?
All Im saying it there isnt a guy in Union County who wouldnt give his left nut to be married to Kate...
So Jack, its your wifes birthday, got anything to say to her?
Its your birthday? Today? Whats your name? Where were you born?
Hey, you cant park that thing here.
Its me, Jack...
I dont care if youre Tim Allen with your fancy car and all your tools, you still cant park here.
Tell me you recognize me, Arnie. Please...
Howd you know my name?
We bowl together. Were bowlers ...we won a championship...were winners.
I never won anything in bowling.
Wait a second... Jack...Jack...
Yes...Jack Campbell...
Of course. Jack Campbell. I went to high school with you...you played baseball, right? Youre doing well...
Yes, thats it...yes, we went to high school together.
You never really talked to me. I wanted to talk to you, man...
Yeah...I guess I just wanted you to know, we couldve been really good friends...
This isnt my real life. Its just a glimpse...
Wheres my real dad?
I dont know...
They did a pretty good job.
Who did?
The aliens...In the mother ship. You look just like him.
Uhh...thanks...slightly better looking though, right?
Do you like kids?
On a case by case basis...
You know how to make chocolate milk?
I think I could figure it out.
You promise not to kidnap me and my brother and implant stuff in our brains?
Sure.
This is day care. Its where babies go when their parents are at work.
Check...
I have winter camp until four, then ballet until five thirty.
Five thirty. Okay.
Try not to be late because kids dont like to be the last one picked up.
Got it. Good tip.
Bye...
Where do I go now?
Big Eds.
Big Eds? Big Eds Tires? Why...?
Thats where you work.
Not bad...I shoulda warned you. Dad always does something really special for their anniversary.
Like what?
One year he had a solar system named after her...
Dont you think thats a little gimmicky?
Mom liked it.
Maybe theres a jewelry store back at the mall. I could get her a pair of earrings or something.
Thats good but...you did forget the anniversary.
Right. Thats a major oversight... So if Im Kate...I cant really afford the finer things, my husbands career is a crushing disappointment to me, Im trapped in suburbia...
Very nice. What is it?
Mary Had A Little Lamb.
Ah. A classic...
What are you doing?
Ringing my bell...
Is it morning yet?
No, honey. Go back to sleep.
Rise...and...shine...!
Youre jumping, sweetheart...
Mom, dont you think we need to open the presents?
Mommy needs five more minutes in la la land. That could be her present...
Were almost done here...
Mary Janes, Mom. You promised.
Thats right. Okay, lets make a quick stop at the kids shoe department, pick up my watch from the battery place, then Ill run into the linen store...
Fightings a part of it, Annie. You know that, right?
Im not worried, Mom. Hes still learning our ways...
Sorry, Jack. I told Dee and the kids I'd be home by dinner. You know, it being Christmas Eve and all.
Is that tonight?
You think I like being here on Christmas Eve, Alan?
I don't know. Maybe...
You're right, Jack. Sorry... Jack approaches Alan.
I don't want you to be sorry, Alan, I want you to be excited. I want my gift to be the first one you open this year. You know why?
Why Jack?
Because my gift comes with ten zeroes at the end...
Mr. Mintz.
Please, call me Alan. We try to cultivate a casual atmosphere around here...
I can see that, Alan.
You have kids, Jack?
Uh...actually, yes. Two... good ones.
I was a sales associate, at E.F. Hutton.
A broker? Really. And now youre in the tire business?
Thats right. And auto supply...
Uh huh. The retail end, I understand.
Uh...we actually get about sixty percent of our business from automotive service.
Mind if I ask what kind of sales you did last year? Ballpark...
We did one point seven million in total revenue...
Uh huh...one point seven. And what do you project for this year?
Well, Alan, I think were gonna have a banner year. Sales are up almost twenty percent in the first quarter and we just landed a major trucking company account.
Really. So youre projecting what, a tad over two million?
Look, I know our paltry little two million in sales is about what you spend on office supplies in a year. And I know some regional trucking company account is nothing compared to a sixty billion dollar merger...
Im not trying to knock the tire business, Jack.
Its okay, Alan. I get it. Im in your shoes, Im thinking exactly the same thing...but heres the thing. Business is business. Wall Street, Main Street, its all just a bunch of people getting up in the morning, trying to figure out how the hell theyre gonna send their kids to college. Its just people...
And I know people.
Im sure you do...
Take you, for instance...
What about me?
You drink about sixteen Diet Cokes a day. Youre an excellent father, but you feel guilty about the time you spend away from home. You drink bourbon, but you offer your clients scotch...
...thats our war room. We did seven major deals last year, three of them hostile.
Seven. Really.
Good for you. Why shouldnt you protect whats yours.
I dont think youre hearing me.
Oh, Im hearing you, Alan. Thats not the problem. The problem is that what you think is yours, is really mine. And I dont care how low on the totem pole I start, I will get it back... So do yourself a favor and dont get too attached to that view because sometime soon, maybe very soon, you and your French country antiques, your chintz sofa, and your little play pen are gonna be moving out of that office.
Jack, are you okay?
Whats going on here?
Its not good. Bob Thomas has secretly been talking to a European drug company. Were not sure which one, Julias on it right now. Word is theyre willing to let him buy a minority stake and keep running the entire company. The Global people are up in arms. They say we shouldve been prepared for this. Were in trouble here, Jack...
Excuse me?
But I think I like you better this way...
Is this another one of those Sun Tzu Art of War tricks?
No.
So what are we gonna do, Jack?
You too? This holiday's about giving, Adelle. And I'm giving everything I've got to this deal, so in a way, I'm more Christmassy than anyone... Lifesaver?
You're a ray of sunshine, Jack.
Oh, and Oxxford called...
Ooh, my suits are ready...
Kate Reynolds...
Her assistant said you could call her at home after eight.
Her assistant?
Yeah Jack, her assistant...
Kate Reynolds was my girlfriend in college. I almost married her...
You? Married?
Almost married. And almost a junior broker at E.F. Hutton...
Excuse me?
She didn't want me to go to London. We're standing at the airport saying goodbye and she asks me to stay.
So you left her? Just like that?
God, no. I thought about it for practically the entire flight...
Stop Jack, I'm getting all weepy.
I took the road less traveled, Adelle.
And look where it's led you... I'm gonna get her on the phone...
No...
No?! You almost married this woman. Aren't you even curious what she wants?
She's probably just having a fit of nostalgia. You know, lonely Christmas Eve, call the one that got away, that kind of thing.
I'll leave from the office tomorrow afternoon. Call the group. Schedule an emergency strategy session for noon.
That'll be a nice little holiday treat.
Hello?
Hey Santa, where are you? Everybodys here.
Adelle?
You were supposed to be here half an hour ago...the emergency strategy session? Your trip to Aspen? Theyre all panicked here...
What happened to your big "assignment"?
What do you know about it?
As much as ever. Nothing.
It didn't work out as planned. Where are you off to?
The hospital.
The hospital? Oh, that's right  you're a doctor. Haha.
Jon  I don't have time to play games. There're leftovers in the fridge.
Have fun at work.
What is with you tonight?
Don't I usually kiss my wife?
No.
Hurry up  the salad's getting warm and the pasta's getting cold.
 I've got to study.
Why do I feel like I'm on a blind date?
They say love is blind. Do you think that's true?
I think  you're trying to get me drunk.
Wouldn't be the first time  or would it?
You wouldn't even sip champagne at our wedding. We were underage  you wouldn't break the law. Remember what my brother called you?
So  how long will you be gone this time?
Gone?
Isn't that what all this is about? Letting Jamie go out, cooking me dinner,  your next assignment?
I'm not going anywhere.
You always say that  then you leave.
Can't you see I'm trying to change? I sent Jamie off because I wanted to be alone with you. I wanted to see the candlelight dance in your beautiful 
 what?
I'm replacing Lazarro. Nice, safe desk job  just like you wanted.
... That's great.
So you see, I'm not going anywhere. Unless it's upstairs with you ...
You're wearing your suit 
Call me spontaneous.
What's on your mind?
Jon, it's the tenth. I know how difficult it is for you, but we still have to go.
I'm late. Gotta protect and serve the world, y'know.
The world can wait, Jon. You're going.
Okay, if you insist. But  you drive.
I think Jamie's been seeing Karl again.
Great.
Great? He's 17  you told her to stay away from him.
Oh, that Karl.
Yes, Jon. That Karl.
I'll have a talk with her. By the way, you never said anything about last night ...
What are you doing?
 Studying.
Nothing.
I disagree. You think I've been acting strange. Like a completely different person.
 Yes.
Okay, I have a confession to make. But you aren't going to like it.
Where's Jamie?
That's what I'd like to know. She stole fifty dollars from my purse and took off.
I'll deal with her later.
Good. Because I'm fed up.
I'm going to the powder room.
Sure, baby  go anywhere you want. But I have to give you an escort. Security reasons.
Remember this from our junior prom? Boy, were you ever mad for Madonna.
Back then  who wasn't?
Wait a second  you hated Madonna. Didn't you?
Look at you, Jon  at your age  an American hero! I'd buy you a drink but I know you'd just turn me down.
Normally, I would. But today ...
You're the only person in this place who can see right through me.
You've made us look pretty good in the past week. And the way you handled the press 
Just following your example.
D.C.'s very high on giving you the promotion. There's just one problem.
What's that?
Me. I have doubts about your ability to stick with what is essentially a desk job.
I had doubts too. I always looked at a desk as though it were a ballandchain. But something happened ...
You'd have to start immediately.
Done. In fact, I was already plotting about the best way to meet the foreign bureau chiefs.
Jon, you're starting to remind me  of me. Congratulations.
I just heard about Castor's fratricide  rather poetic, don't you think?
What is it, Admiral? I'm under the gun here.
I just thought that  under the circumstances  you might want to postpone the meeting with the station chiefs.
No. Most of them are in transit by now. I'm heading over to the hotel to personally oversee security.
Okay, then. I leave it in your able hands.
You merciless bastard!
Business first. I went into the "Warrants" system and erased your records. You're clean. In fact, you're now on the informant payroll.
I can't even look at you without wanting to vomit.
You better get used to it. That bitch Lazarro is getting kicked upstairs. Guess what whitebread family man is going to replace her?
 I'll be one of the most powerful men in the country. Didn't matter how much cash I made pulling wet jobs  I was still too low on the food chain  always with somebody like Jon Archer after me. The best part is  I'm the GOOD guy.
No  the best part is, since it's a government job  they can't fire you! But how can you be sure you'll get the appointment?
Trust me. You're gonna love it ...
Don't get mad, but I just went for a little stroll through the company switches.
You're supposed to be snitching, making me look legit.
Don't worry, nobody knows I'm inside. Check it out. Remember that fat fuck agent who roughed us up in Thailand? He's being treated for bone cancer at the V.A. Thanks to the miracle of NSA gridtechnology ...  Ooops! His radiation does just quadrupled.
Are you TRYING to give us away? For somebody with such a big brain, you think awfully small.
I'm just having some fun.
There's fun, bro. Then there's FUN.
Eight pocket stingers ... seven piper uzis ... six cobra carbines ... five  net  launchers ...
Yeah  it's Santa's Magic fucking Village. Your present's in here.
We gut the organization  and rebuild it with more reliable friends.
Most of the current chiefs  they must have pretty hefty prices on their heads.
All of them do. We'll kill twelve birds with one bomb. And we'll be rich.
Good, because I checked your salary  and it bites. How the everyday workingclass stiff survives in today's economy is something I'll never ...
You'll need to recultivate that virus.
No problem.
What about me?
A lot of people think you're a snitch. It's dangerous ...
Like I fucking care? I'm not just sitting here!
You picked a helluva day to leave your beeper off!
What happened?
Castor's escaped!
Escaped? From Erewhon? I want everyone on this  our entire force and the SFPD.
What happened?
What the fuck do you think happened? Castor Troy just shot him! What are you waiting for? GO!
Commander, what are you doing here?
Where should I be? Where's everyone else?
Backing you up! Didn't you track Castor to the Army Street Terminal?
What?
It was confirmed by your personal security code. Nobody knows that code but you!
Obviously someone else knows it! Get everybody back to their posts  NOW!
You're both in custody until there's a DNA fingerprinting and we can prove who's who. Now put the gun down.
You can't blame me for trying.
Oh  Commander. I didn't see you ...
Well, I saw you  Kim.
Kim?
That's your name, isn't it?
You always call me Miss Brewster.
Let's try to be a little less formal from now on, shall we?
You've got someone in your office.
Get rid of them.
The Admiral?
Screw your boundaries, Janie. You have something I want.
Janie?
Clarissa left those here.
I won't tell mom if you don't.
When did you start smoking?
You'll be seeing a lot of changes around here. Daddy's a new man.
Get a higher arc on the ball, Jamie. And for Chrissake, square your shoulders to the basket.
Like you know anything about it.
What are you  stupid?
You haven't changed at all! Some guy tries to rape me  and you side with him!
Did it look like I was siding with him? Did it? You want to play with the bad boys, you better be prepared. Do you have protection?
You mean like ... condoms?
I mean like protection.
There's my little darling. The night wouldn't be complete without you.
Yeah, mom cut me some slack  but I decided ... I'd like to be here for you. Here, mom. You can have it back. Thanks, though.
SFPD? Castor isn't stupid enough to come back to the city.
Trust me, he's already here. Get going!
We've got him sighted. Okay, Pollux, pull out.
What makes you so sure this guy's gonna set up his own brother?
I've never been more certain of anything. Get everyone in position.  And get the word out  shoot to kill.
Just saving the taxpayers the cost of a trial. So take a hike.
What's the matter with your voice, Commander?
Castor Troy almost strangled me to death. Where the hell were you?
They're too tight.
So's a noose. Now keep your mouth SHUT.
You'll what?
I'm going to have you fired.
You better be nice, Castor. You could get mighty lonely now that Pollux is gone.
Pollux is  what?
Archer cut him a deal for turning state's evidence. He's free.
Walton, you have to let me see the warden 
Or what? You'll have me fired?
Jon, I'm getting a little annoyed by your obsessive need to spoil my fun.
And how much will your "fun" net you this time?
What's it to you? I declare it. Here I am, back in the States for less than a month 
You're under arrest. Incredibly, you still have the right to remain silent 
What're you gonna do with me gone? You'll drive your wife and kid nuts! I bet your daughter is just about ripe by now. What's her name, Janie?
Mention my family once more and you're dead.
You can't kill me, Jon. I've got something going this Saturday night ... it's gonna be worse than anything God ever dumped on the Pharaohs  and only I can stop it.
You can tell me all about it  from your prison cell.
Don't count on it.
 Castor?
Not anymore.
It can't be. It's impossible.
I believe the phrase Dr. Hoag used was "titanically remote." Who knows? Maybe the trauma of having my face cut off pulled me out. Or maybe God really is on my side after all. By the way, I know you don't get the papers in here.
You killed them?
Of course I killed them, you DUMB FUCK. And torched every shred of evidence that proves who you really are. Swallow this one, Commander. You are going to be in here for the rest of your life.
What are you going to do, Castor?
Let's not confuse things anymore. I'm Archer. You're Castor. But if you need proof 
What are you going to do!
You've given me the freedom I haven't had in years, and the power to make it pay off in ways I never thought possible. But hell  this is America. One day a pauper, the next day, a prince. And I owe it all to you. Now if you'll excuse me, I've got an important government job to abuse,  and a beautiful wife to fuck. Excuse me  I mean "make love to."
Stay away from my family!
Too late, your kid worships me. And your wife  she's an animal. Even I can't keep up with her.
What  what are you doing?
Vacuumsealed globe ... shouldn't take long.
I don't know. How long before it kills us?
Five seconds.
Give up, Castor. People are going to find out.
Not if I kill you first ...
Jamie ...
Shoot him!
How is the "date night" idea going over with Eve?
Like gangbusters, doc. Okay, I missed the last one.
You missed the last three, including her birthday. Your wife's gripe sheet.
I've been working night and day. I haven't had time.
You're supposed to make time. When was the last time you told her you love her? When was the last time you two had sex?
One of my informants spotted him  right here in the city.
I just asked you about making love to your wife, and you started talking about your job.
I'm not hiding in my work, if that's what you're saying.
You said it, Jon, not me.
How's Loomis?
Apparently, fine. He's coming into work. That's the good news ...
Go on.
Castor's still alive  Technically. He's a turnip, on total lifesupport ...
We can send in a plant  try to get Pollux to spill the location.
He'd see that a mile away. The only person he'd talk to about that bomb is his brother. Unfortunately, turnips can't talk.
Which ear was it?
The left, I think. Those surgeons in Witness Protection can fix things nobody's even broken yet.
Jon, this is goddam insane. You can't go through with it. What about Eve?
She doesn't know  and she never will.
You haven't got a chance in hell of fooling Pollux. Castor drinks, smokes and walks around with a 24hour hardon. He's nothing like you.
Don't worry. I've done my homework. I'll get Pollux to talk.
Either way, come Saturday morning  I'm pulling you the hell out of there.
Now what?
Call Lazarro. Castor just came out of his coma.
This is it, Jon. For the next 72 hours  you're on your own.
Just make sure you're there. On time.
Well, you tried. You failed miserably, but you tried.
Everything I say is wrong. I can't talk to her anymore.
She's only 12. Some day she'll understand that apathy and absence are just special ways of saying "I love you."
Is that what you think?
Jon ... we just remember how it used to be. You staying for a while or is this just a pissstop?
We need to talk.
I'm late for surgery.
It's important.
So is finishing my residency and passing my boards ...
... I was dreaming ...
Something good?
We were back in high school. You wanted to join the sky diving team, but I wouldn't let you.
Must've been after we got engaged.
Actually  in this dream  I was your mother.
So you had a nightmare.
Totally  you were being very, very bad. You went up in the plane and jumped out. You had a parachute, but it didn't open.
Were you there to catch me?
No.
How come?
I don't know ... Maybe because you've never needed my help.
Five years ... I still can't get it out of my head  an inch to the left, Matty would still be alive.
And you wouldn't be.
What are you saying? Oh, God  you're going on assignment again ...
One last time. It's important ...
You said you'd be here! You promised me  you promised Jamie! What could be more important than that?
I can't tell you ... except only I can do it.
You want me to tell you it's okay to leave? Okay, go on! GO!
Is someone there?
Eve, listen carefully. The man you think is your husband  isn't.
Who is this?
Never mind that! Just take Jamie and get out of that house. Don't tell anyone where you're going  especially not him  just GO.
Okay, you're having an emotional crisis. You need to seek the help of a trained 
Think about it, Eve! Everything he's done recently has been peculiar, right? He's said and done things your husband would never do ...
Whoever you are, don't call again.
Don't hang up ...
I know you  you're the one who called. You're Castor Troy. You killed my son 
 I called, but I'm not Castor. I'm your husband.
How did he expect to do that?
An NSA surgeon gave me Castor's face. He handled the transplant, the vocal implant, everything. But somehow Castor came out of his coma  and killed everyone who knew about the mission. But not before he was transformed into me.
I took it from my fake husband.
Why point it at me? I'm the real thing.
I don't know that. Maybe Jon's already dead.
What more proof do you need?
Tell me what happened on April 9th  13 years ago.
Christ, Jon! How could you do this to yourself? How could you do this to us? Do you know  do you know what he did to me ...?
Whatever happened, whatever he did  I know it's my fault and I know I can never make it up to you 
He freaked out when he thought I had seen this stuff. I think it's a list of cities  Santiago, Ho Chi Minh City, Nandi ...
Our Pacific Rim stations. These numbers must be bounties. Castor's not wasting any time.
What do you mean?
He's going to kill off our bureau chiefs  onebyone.
 Or maybe all at once. There's a gettogether tonight at New St. Marks. For all the bureau chiefs and their families. He's insisted Jamie and I be there too.
You can't go. You can't be anywhere near that place.
Jon, what is it?
The bomb. He's reactivated it. And everyone there is going to die.
Can't we call someone? Admiral Lazarro?
I know Lazarro  the first person she'd call is "me." We can't take the chance of tipping Castor off.
Jon, if I'm not there, he will be tipped off. I'll get rid of Jamie  but you and I are in this together.
Eve ...
How is he?
No life signs at all. He's a turnip.
That's what they always say.
I started wondering  if you couldn't switch back  would it make a difference?
Would it?
Damn right.
Hey, bro ...
You're not my brother. The brother I knew would never have been caught by that dumb fuck Archer. At least tell me the bomb is still going off.
They haven't found it yet  Listen, Pollux ...
Pollux ...
Shut up.
So?
So? The procnias averano is a South American bird. The flight here was only three hours! And yesterday a European swallow flew by! Where the fuck are we?
What do you mean?
You shoot hoops like a chick, you smoke like a wuss, and  I don't know  you're different.
I was in a coma, Pollux. I still feel like shit.
Let me have a look.
Do you know what it is to be in a coma? It fucks up everything  including your memory! I can't even tell you why Dobbs jumped me yesterday!
You porked his wife the day he was arrested. How could you forget that?
I don't know. Everything's jumbled  so you're going to have to help me fill in a few blanks.
A few blanks? Like what?
Like ...
Oh, God  Mom OD'd at County General.
Retching and convulsing while those bastards didn't even try to save her sorry ass. You gave her mouth to mouth  man  even then you had some constitution.
Uh  to kill the doctors?
After that. You promised you'd always take care of me.
And I bet I've kept that promise ...
Only one you've never broken.
That's not the worst part.
What's worse than losing five million bucks?
Being stuck in this rathole when it blows. Bro, what you built was a work of art. That little fucker belongs in the Smithsonian.
Thanks, Pollux.
For what?
For being one helluva guy.
"Thanks?" I guess they really did fuck you up.
And this thing can grow it?
Yes. Pollux bought one along with the original batch. Obviously, he found a way to make more.
Why would he need more?
He's your brother, you figure it out. Maybe he made another bomb.
Or reactivated the first one.
Right ... like Jon Archer would ever let that happen.
Uhoh, somebody's in trouble.
Yeah  me.
Jesus Christ, Castor.
Drive.
The last time I took orders from you I ended up with five years probation.
Where am I?
My place.
You shouldn't have brought me here ... it's dangerous.
Better than you bleeding all over my car upholstery. Trust me, Caz, you won't be here long.
I hear you're a manicurist now  got your own business and everything. I'm glad you've stayed clean.
Like I had a choice with that analretentive Jon Archer rising my ass at the probation hearing. At least he took an interest. You took off without leaving so much as a Postit.
I'm not the same person you remember.
Perfect fit.
Should be. It's yours.
Nicelooking kid.
Of course he is ...  He's yours too.
Go on, Adam ... I'm not asking you for anything  I was never even going to tell you. But hell, I never thought I'd see you again, either.
How old is he?
Five. No one knows you're his father. I thought someone might want to hurt him  just to hurt you.
Yes ... someone might want to tear him apart  snuff him out  for revenge.
You're not holding him right ... Caz ...
Fine work, Jon.
Yeah, real fine. Especially all the casualties.
I'm complimenting you. Can't you ever just say "thanks"?
... Thanks.
Try to kiss my butt just once before I'm transferred.
Sorry, Admiral. It wasn't mentioned in the job description.
He's lying.
Jon, he's hooked up to a fullspectrum polygraph. No one has ever beaten 
I don't care  he's manipulating it. That bomb has been built and it's out there, somewhere.
What do you expect us to do  shut down the city, evacuate two million people on a hunch?
Waxy Wright. Didn't Jon Archer bust you for poisoning five members of the Canadian parliament?
They never should've voted against U.S. statehood  the scumbags. We heard you got wasted.
Do I look wasted  asshole?
You look great, Castor. Really. Here  I got a shot of your favorite  Mescal. Even has the worm.
Don't they ever let us take these boots off?
Not unless you're sent to the "Clinic."
You mean if I get sick?
They don't give two fucks about your health. The Clinic's where they send the real hardcases for attitude adjustment. Look at O'Neill 
What did he do?
He hit a guard.
John. It's good to see you.
Good to see you, Ma.
So. How are you?
Fine. You?
Oh, fine.
Big piece or little?
Huh? Oh, no.
None?
I'm not much for sweets.
How's that dog of yours? What was his name?
Eddie.
Yes. Right. Eddie. How is he?
He's losing his teeth.
Did you break a cup, Jack?
Eddie did.
Guess they're up.
Sounds big. What's he do?
Process server. Ma said it's like a lawyer only the hours are more regular. All I know's he came to take the TV one afternoon and ended up staying for dinner. And breakfast.
What happened to the donut king?
Married.
In the old days, every man had a shaving mug that he kept at the barber shop. Then, whenever he wanted a shave, held go down to the barber shop and there would be his mug, waiting for him.
Is that what you used to do?
My days are not the old days, genius.
What are they?
The recent past.
Oh. Bigfoot gets his out of a can.
How do you know?
I saw his stuff in the bathroom.
Oh?
I guess it's getting serious.
Maybe he'll ask your ma to marry him.
I hope not. He's already busted the springs in two chairs. Hey, what's this?
Ivory.
Looks old.
Older than me.
Wow.
Hey, what do you want to do? Grow a beard?
Why not?
Well, let's get your first prom under the belt, okay?
What's a prom?
Ever go to church?
I tried Cheerios this morning. He didn't even get up. Maybe they took out the wrong teeth.
He's just feeling sorry for himself. This is it, pal. Hear me? Two bucks a can.
How'd the show go?
Okay. How'd yours go?
Not so good.
From Hurley's?
Eighty proof. What d'ya say? Think you can handle it?
Jack.
Yeah?
Can I stay here tonight? Even if she comes here?
Merry Christmas, Jack.
Merry Christmas.
There were more flowers last year. Mr. Rinaldi down at the drugstore says it's going to snow by New Year's. Says he can feel it in his elbows. I hope it snows. I want to make a snowman. You ever make a snowman, Jack?
Sure.
That's what I want to do. I want to make a snowman.
Ah, you know. Howsa pooch?
Losing his teeth.
No shit. It's the goddamn water. Kill an ox. I buy bottled for my Danny. You can't trust the taps.
Yeah. Jesus, you look like fucking royalty, Tommy.
Yeah. The big boys sent it down yesterday.
Another five years, huh?
Like clockwork. You got a good memory, Jackie.
It ain't always a blessing. My brother here?
He's got blood in his eye.
Hey, he's not sore, is he?
He'll come around.
You never sang before?
Not for money. With my mother.
Fucking.
Look, they were all on their third Mai Tais by the time I got out there anyway.
The Park? It's only two nights. Why throw away a night?
Because Blackie Carson books the Park and whenever we've needed a gig he's come through.
Oh. Well, for Blackie then.
Where's egghead?
His kid's sick.
I don't know. It's hard figuring you two as brothers. Seems like the hospital might've scrambled the babies somewhere.
He takes after our mother.
Yeah,well, a11 I know is mother nature must be one crazy dame. Shit.
Uhuh. I never touch American cigarettes. What's tomorrow again?
The Stratford.
Nice place. Fulla velvet. Even the bedspreads. Damn! Twofifty a pack and I go through 'em like toothpicks. Twelveandahalf cents a piece, you believe that?
Huh?
Paris Opals. Twelveandahalf cents. I sat down with a pencil and added it one day. But I figure, if you're gonna be sticking something in your mouth, you might as well make it the best. Ah, here's a lost soul.
Mmm. Like kissing a rose. Well, au revoir.
Hey. You feel like a cup of coffee?
You kidding? We must've killed three pots in there. Anyway, I gotta get home. Rest the pipes.
You want me to walk you?
No. Thanks. She starts to move away, then stops and looks back.
Hey, listen. You're not going soft on me, are you? I mean, you're not gonna start dreaming about me and waking up all sweaty and looking at me like I'm some kinda princess when I burp.
Forget it.
I mean, that'd be too creepy. With us working together and all.
Forget it.
Nothing personal 
He do that every year?
Every year.
Aren't the kids asleep?
Every year.
So why's he do it?
I guess in case one year they're not.
Oh, sorry. With the light always on, it's hard to tell.
It's okay. Last one.
Can't sleep?
In and out.
It's the waves. God's music, my mother used to say. She was crazy for the ocean.
Yeah, well, I wish God would go a little easy on the trumpets.
How's egghead?
Like a baby. You?
In and out.
If you want, I got a pack in the room.
No thanks. I never touch French cigarettes.
Yeah, well, thanks for sticking your head in.
Hey, business is business.
It wasn't business. It was pleasure.
Just dinner and dance, right?
Relax. We'll drop the song.
Guess I got a little scattered.
It's a shitty song.
How do you do it? Every night?
Practice. There are worse songs, you know. Not many, but a few.
I can keep the beat.
Better than that.
What's the matter?
Nothing.
What'd I say?
Nothing.
You're upset.
I'm not upset.
All I said was you were good.
Look. You don't know good. All right?
What's that supposed to mean?
It means you wouldn't know good if it came up and fucked you.
You were good.
Let's make a deal. You shut up.
You were good.
How do you know?
Because I saw the other people! And they knew you were good! You were good, goddamnit!
Nina?
Who's Nina?
Friend.
Friend? What's she look like? Maybe I can help you find her.
She's four feet tall. Ed?
Ed? How many people live here?
I have to make him some chili. Okay?
Sure.
Like diamonds, huh? I never get over it. When I was a little girl, my mama'd stand me before the window and tell me to close my eyes and make a wish.Like I could reach out and grab all the lights of the city and string them intoa necklace for myself. She'd take my hand and when she closed her eyes, I don't know, it was like she really believed it.
How come you didn't close your eyes?
You know, I saw you guys once. You and Frank. At the Roosevelt.
Must've been a cheap date.
Soap convention.
Soap?
Yeah, they got a convention for everything. At least he was clean. Boy, the guys I met when I was with the service, you wouldn't believe. The older ones, they were okay. Nice. Polite. Pulled the chair out for you. But the younger ones ... Mama used to say, dance with a man once, but if you can feel calluses on his fingers, don't dance with him again. She thought she had it all figured out. But she wasn't so smart. There are killers with palms like a baby.
History.
Huh?
My father proposed to my mother in there.
No kidding?
The both of them? In there?
He called her.
Oh. So what's it doing here?
Long story.
You sending me home?
They'd been out dancing all night and he took her to the train station  she lived over in Brookhaven. Usually held ride with her, but this time he didn't. Anyway, he starts walking home, only as he's walking he starts getting nervous.
Nervous?
By the time he gets to the corner newstand, he's got her meeting some rich guy on the train, the rich guy's asked her to marry him, and he's reading about it in the morning edition.
You're kidding.
He had a mind that escalated things.
So, what happened?
He calls her, asks her to marry him, she thinks he's crazy, he asks her again, she still thinks he's crazy but says yes anyway, and the next thing you know he's got his brothers down there and they're tearing the thing right off the curb.
I don't know. Maybe he thought some rich guy was gonna try and call her.
Wow. But I still don't see how ...
Ma didn't want it around. After.
Oh.
Frank said 
Frank wasn't 'there.
Oh. Hi. Sorry.
Coffee?
Yeah... No.
Look, if you want to leave...
Yeah, maybe ... No. God, I hate these cigarettes!
Shit. I think I started a fire.
If our feet get hot, you grab the piano.
You can always get another girl.
There's always another girl.
Saw the sign outside. Got your own sign, huh?
Yeah. Got my own sign.
So ... ?
We outgrew each other.
Yeah, well, like I said, it didn't figure. You two.
You don't pick your brother.
Yeah.
So how's the cat food business?
Terrific. I'm doing vegetables next week.
What kind?
Huh?
Vegetables.
Oh. Carrots. And peas. None of the important ones.
Listen... you want to get a drink? I got a new place. Or we could go to a bar ... Well, maybe not a bar. But I know a place uptown, if you want 
I've given it up.
Tell egghead I said hi. If you see him.
If I see him.
Jack.
Hi.
Well, this is some surprise. Hey ... You don't look so good, pal.
Let me get the light.
No.
Sneak out in the morning. Before the guy could wake up and ruin it. Never figured I'd be on the other end of it, though.
I didn't want to wake you.
Yeah.
Thanks. For letting me in last night.
Funny how life repeats itself, huh? Over and over. Like a song.
Well, now, where's everyone run off to? Frank?
Downstairs.
No.
I'm tired. Really. I should get home.
It went well tonight.
Frank works hard.
And you don't?
He leads, I follow.
Is that the way it is?
Pretty much.
He mentioned you had a girl for a while. A singer.
For a while. She left.
Yes, well, it's probably best. No sense bringing someone else in.
I suppose.
You miss him, don't you?
It's been a long time, Ma.
Yes. I supposed you still have that old phone booth.
No, I, uh, left a dog here this morning. He needed some work on his mouth.
Regular hours are eight to five.
Yeah, yeah, I know. I was just passing by. Thought I'd check in on him.
You can check in on him tomorrow. Between eight and five.
Yeah, well, couldn't I take a look now?
You want to know if he's okay. Right?
Yeah.
All right. Hold on.
The name's Baker 
Save it. What's he look like?
Black. Labrador.
All right. they lay the dead ones out in the cold room. I'll take a look.
No.
So. I'm here, you're here, the piano's here. What d'ya say?
Don't worry about it.
You know, I'm feeling a lot of hostility from you.
Barker. Jock Barker?
Baker. Jack Baker.
Right. Bring him back.
Come on, Ed.
You should've brought a leash, Mr. Barker. The doctor doesn't like to be bitten.
He doesn't bite.
They never do, Mr. Barker.
Baker.
Right. In there.
Whatcha doin' over there?
Gotta go.
How come?
Job.
Funny hours.
Funny job.
Will I see you again?
Brought it.
Shit, thank God. You look like a creep.
Thanks.
I mean, I'd hate to think I'd pick up someone who wore that shit.
Terrific, boys. Really. Terrific.
Thanks, Lloyd.
Yes, sir. You're just what we needed on a night like this.
Uh ... thanks.
Uh ... You don't know when you'll be wanting us back, do you, Lloyd?
I'll call you.
Uh, well, you know, the way our schedule is, I thought maybe...
I'll call you.
Yes, sir. That's quite a girl you boys latched onto. She a local?
Born and bred.
Lucky for you. Well, there you go, guys. Don't spend it all in one place. Oh ... you want to count it, Jack?
We trust you, Lloyd. You know that.
Good morning, gentlemen. I'm Mr. Daniels, the manager. I believe I've spoken to one of you on the phone.
That'd be me, sir. Frank Baker. This is my brother Jack.
Tom here tells me there's a problem with the pianos. We were assured they were in tune.
Yes, well, they are.
Then I'm afraid I don't understand.
They are in tune. But not with each other.
Is that important?
Uh, well ...
Hey, it's legit. Strictly dinner and dance.
Okay. I think that's all we need to know.
I sing now?
That's the premise.
So?
Uh ... we'll let you know.
When?
When we know.
Don't leave a girl hanging. Second rule of show business.
Ready?
What are we, an orchestra all of a sudden?
What's the problem?
The problem is I can't hear myself sing with all this... ... music. You know what I'm saying?
I mean, you're supposed to be backing me up, right?
No. We are not supposed to be backing you up.
What I mean is 
We're a team. We work together.
So work with me, not against me. Okay?
Christ, look at her. You'd think if she was gonna wear her street clothes she'd have enough sense to come in the back. Good evening, Miss Diamond. You're late.
Where's my name?
What?
And how come you guys are the only ones with your pictures on the poster?
We'll talk about it later. Right now, you gotta get changed.
Changed?
Where's your dress?
What's he talking about?
Is there a language problem here? Your dress. For tonight. Where is it?
Do I look like I'm naked?
That! You can't wear that!
What's wrong with it?
It's orange!
Am I missing something?
Come on.
Hey!
Come on. We don't have much time.
Time for what?
If you ask me, this is pretty stupid.
Just look. What do you wear? A nine?
A seven.
My wife wears a seven. You don't look like a seven to me.
I wear a seven.
Okay, okay. Here, how about this?
Save it for your wife.
We're not exactly silly with time, you know. Jack, you find anything?
Hey, pal. I don't know about you, but where I come from there's a little girl's room and a little boy's room and the little boys don't go where the little girls go.
All right, but make it quick. Shoes! What size do you wear?
Nine.
Nine?
Nine!
Big feet.
What do you think?
Uh... good.
Zip me up?
Shoes?
Right.
They're tight.
They're nines.
Well, they're aspiring to be sevens.
You can buy new ones tomorrow.
Oh, thanks.
Don't worry. We'll take it out of your share.
You're a prince.
We need scissors over here! Who's got scissors? Okay, remember. Jack and I go on first, I do the setup, then introduce you. And you say ...
Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. I can't tell you how thrilled I am to be here. It's like a dream come true. And speaking of dreams ...
Right.
Piece of cake.
The switch. Hit the switch.
Switch? What fucking switch?
Fucking. She says fucking in front of an entire room of people.
I said I was sorry.
Did you hear it?
Fucking.
For Christ sake, I said it, I didn't do it. Besides, I don't think they were too offended, do you?
Give me that.
Hey!
We are not a saloon act. We do not take tips from dirty old men.
I was gonna split it with you guys.
We do not take tips. I'll apply this to the cost of the dress.
Jack, you with us?
The Carlton's a dump. No cover. No minimum. And they water their drinks. It's strictly for the Fuller brush crowd.
I guess it's,the Plaza then. That brings us to the twentyseventh. We got the Avedon for three or the Park downtown for two.
We take the Avedon, right? Simple.
By the way, I got a messsage yesterday from some guy looking for New Year's action. Resort, upstate.
Hey.
Maybe it's legit.
Maybe. I'll call him.
Uh, well ... we flipped a coin.
So find a dime. Let's get out of here.
Well, well. Ho, ho, ho. You moonlighting at Macy's, Frank?
For the kids. Merry Christmas, you two. Don't forget. We leave the twentysixth.
You two could play checkers.
Maybe we should just listen to the radio.
Sorry. It only plays static.
You play all these places?
Baker's unabridged.
Jesus, you fellas've made a lot of noise. What's with the stars?
Virgins.
Virgins?
First times. Hey, look at this.
He's right.
He's always right. Go ahead. Pick a virgin.
Go ahead.
Okay.The Fantasy Inn.
Jack?
I don't believe it.
I told you, he's got the gift. Same with music. Hears it once and he's got it.
And how about this air? I'm telling you, a few days in this place'll put five years on your life.
Smells like fish.
Of course it smells like fish. We're on the ocean. What'd you expect, Chanel number five?
Smells like tuna number two to me.
It's paradise. That's what it is. Paradise.
Hey, we're connected.
Great.
Great?
Yeah.
You're kidding me.
As Charlie Steinway is my witness.
Peggy Lee?
Tell her.
What'd she sing?
People.' You think Streisand, right? Hot that night. Chills. Through the whole audience. I could hardly play.
Wow. You ever see her again?
No. We got a picture, though. One of the waitresses had a camera. God, we were just kids. That was something, wasn't it?
Hey, will you look at that?
They must've bought the same map we did.
What do you say we send a bottle over?
I don't believe it. You're a romantic, Frank.
Oh yeah?
He's just afraid to show it. Aren't you, little brother?
What's with you two?
Jack woke up on the wrong side of the bottle.
Uh, well, I love you, too, Jack. So. Susie. How 'bout it.
Huh?
Got another song for us?
Oh. Yeah. I gotta bunch of them.
Well then ... shall we?
What's with you guys?
Someone needs to grow up. I won't take it, Jack.
Forget your tie, handsome ... Frank!
You want to tell me what the hell's going on?
Huh?
I just saw a man walk out of your room.
Uh ...
In case you've forgotten, we're being paid to be here. So it might be nice if you conducted yourself with a certain amount of decency.
Decency? Hey listen, pal ...
No. You listen. I had my doubts about you from the beginning
Some discussion.
I just saw a man walk out of your room!
I guess I ... If I jumped to...
Forget it.
How about you? Got a Bar Mitzvah this weekend?
Huh?
Forget it.
I can't sing it anymore.
What?
That song. I can't sing it anymore. I'm gonna get sick.
What're you talking about? They love it.
I'm gonna throw up, Frank. I mean it. Let's drop it for the ten o'clock, okay?
Susie. It's one more show. One more time. That's all.
And two more times tomorrow night, and two more times the next night, and the next night and the next night and the next night. Frank, I can't sing that fucking song anymore!
This where the auditions are?
This is where the auditions were.
What do you mean?
We're finished.
What about me?
You're an hour and a half late.
My watch is broken, too.
Punctuality. First rule of show business.
This is show business?
Look, miss. We're tired, you have gum on your lip, and we're going home.
Just like that, huh? You're not even gonna give me a chance?
Don't take it personally.
How should I take it?
Impersonally.
I don't believe it. I come all the way down down here, break a heel, and you're not gonna give me a chance because I have gum on my lip and I'm a few minutes late.
You're an hour and a half late.
So if I'm so 'late how come you're still here?
We ran long.
So run a little longer.
Miss 
You find a girl?
Terrific. Thirtyeight.
What's that mean? Thirtyeight.
Susie. Susie Diamond.
Catchy. You have any previous entertainment experience, Miss Diamond?
I'm sorry to interrupt, but when I saw you sitting here, I just had to come over. Florence Simmons.
Uh ... Frank Baker. This is my brother.
Actually, that's my stage name.
I'm sorry?
Moran. Monica. The whole thing. It's my stage name. My real name's Blanche.
Blanche.
No romance, right? That's why I came up with Monica. It's what I prefer.
Well, that's fine 
But if you call my house and my mother answers, ask for Blanche. If you ask for Monica, she'll think you have the wrong number and hang up.
Right.
And if she asks what it's about, don't tell her. She's opposed to my career.
Uhhuh. Well, Miss Moran, what is it you'd like to do for us?
Candy Man.' Is that all right?
It's one of Jack's favorites.
Uh... he knows it.
Really? Isn't that a coincidence.
Oh, sorry. I get so caught up in it sometimes. It's scary.
Yes, it is.
Well ... thanks. Bye.
Sick? How sick?
The flu.
So she's got a few sniffles.
Doctor's orders.
You got no right springing this on me, Frankie. It's unethical.
Look, Nick. You want us to pack up, we'll pack up.
What am I gonna do? Put a record player out there? Bad, Frankie. Bad.
You should've told us you were coming, Ma. We would've come and got you.
Spur of the moment.
So what'd you think?
Thrilling. Both of you.
The audience was a little off tonight.
A few empty tables. It's cozier. Besides, Mel Torme couldn't fill this place on a Wednesday night.
I guess you're,right. Well, what do you say we get a little midnight snack? Theo's should still be open.
No, no. You boys are tired.
No, we're not. Jack?
You sure?
Just call me a cab.
A cab? Ma, come on. My car's just a half block down. You wait here.
All right.
Your limo's ready, Ma.
All right.
Great. Terrific. Glad you could make it.
How we doing?
How we ... ? What, are you kidding me?
Am I late?
That's not the point.
What's the point?
You cannot continue to walk in at the last moment, Jack.
You want me to show up late a few nights?
Jack.
Frank.
Jack.
Frank. I'm here. I always get here. Don't sweat it.
Christ, will you look at your hair?
What's wrong with it?
You look like you just crawled out of bed.
No one's gonna be looking at my hair. Come on, we're on.
You know, my brother and I have been playing together, gosh, I don't know. How long has it been, Jack?
Twentyeight years, Frank.
That's a lot of water under the bridge, eh, Jack?
Lotta water.
Of course, back then, things were a little different. I was eight, Jack was seven, just about the only song we knew was 'My Bonnie Lies Over the Ocean', and the only one who would listen to us was the family cat, Cecil. We must have shaved three lives off that cat, eh, Jack?
Don't make trouble, all right?
Who's gonna make trouble? Hey, amigo!
I mean it, Jack. Behave.
Like an angel.
Count it.
Huh?
Count it.
Jack...
Count the fucking money, Frank.
You mind telling me what that was about in there? Was that planned? Or were you just bored and decided to get creative?
Fuck him.
This isn't the Pine Tree Inn on Route 81, Jack.
Fuck him.
Fuck him. Great. Terrific. Fuck him.
So we on tomorrow night?
Maybe Thursday. I hear the harpist at the Sheraton's got appendicitis.
Listen ... why don't you come out to the house this weekend. Say hello to the kids. They've grown.
I hate your kids, Frank.
You're their uncle.
Only by relation. Besides, they hate me, too.
They don't. They're always asking about you.
They tried to electrocute me, Frank.
It was an accident.
It was no fucking accident, Frank. The little one ...
Cindy.
She threw a goddamn radio into the bathtub. How do you explain that?
She didn't know what she was doing. You're too sensitive.
You got weird kids, Frank.
Look, I just thought if you came out you might see what you're missing.
What d'ya got?,
Bosen black. Flat.
What d'you say, Willie? Tighten her up?
What d'ya got?
Yamaha white. Nice.
What do you think?
Try the black Knable.
You know, I think it's been five years since I saw you eat anything. That's the God's truth.
Trust me, you're not missing anything.
You look awful.
Thanks.
Really. You sleeping?
Only on odd days.
Seeing anyone in particular?
Why the interest?
Because I'm your brother. Because I care about you. Because sometimes it seems like the most significant relationship in your life is with that goddamn dog of yours.
I'm not seeing anyone. In particular.
What about that waitress at the Ambassador?
Uhuh. How about you? You seeing anyone?
Funny. Strike a bell?
It's only a ring. Not a collar.
It's more than that.
By the way, we gotta go see Ma tomorrow.
No thanks.
No, I mean it.
So do I.
We gotta go, Jack.
No, you gotta go 'cause if you don't get up there every couple weeks you feel guilty. I won't feel guilty, so I don't gotta go.
This time you gotta go.
I don't gotta go.
You gotta go.
Says who?
Your older brother.
You're thirteen months older than me, Frank. That might've meant something in the Apache clubhouse, but it don't cut too deep anymore.
Christ, Jack, it's her birthday.
So what'd we get her?
You'll see.
I made her nervous.
What do you mean?
Her hands. Like that.
What's with Charlie?
Nothing. Everything's great. Terrific.
Yeah?
It's me.
Frank?
Yeah. Listen ... come out to the house tomorrow, will ya?
I've had enough family for one month, Frank.
It's not family. It's business.
So talk to me tomorrow. After the gig.
We don't get a gig.
What're you talking about?
Something came up. Don't worry, Charlie stayed true. Both nights. I'll give you your share tomorrow. At the house.
So you'll come out, right?
Yeah, okay.
Jack.
Your doorbell doesn't work.
Honey, it's only Uncle Jack. You remember Uncle Jack.
Nice, huh?
What?
The trees. The flowers. Nice.
Terrific.
Yeah ... we're gonna paint in the spring. After the rains. Look good as new.
You ask me out here to sell me your house, Frank?
Charlie paid you off last night, didn't he?
I don't know what you mean.
The hell you don't.
I told you. Something came up. Some political dinner or something.
Bullshit. Fifteen years, Frank. No one paid us off.
It wasn't like that.
No?
No.
What was it like?
Hey pal, I got a mortgage, all right? I got two kids. I got a wife. Besides, he made the deal. There's no shame in it.
That how you see it?
A gust of wind killed him.
Yeah, and what put him up there?
Hey, you weren't there. Right?
Look, can we forget last night? We gotta talk.
Talk.
I been thinking maybe we should make some changes. I been thinking maybe we should take on a singer.
Sure, why not.
It's just an idea. I want your opinion. I mean, we go halfway on everything, right?
It's more like 4060, wouldn't you say?
We agreed that if I took care of the business; I'd be entitled to the extra. Isn't that what we agreed?
That's what we agreed.
If you're unhappy with the arrangement 
I'm not unhappy.
If you'd like to assume more of the financial responsibilities, I'd be glad 
Frank. Fuck it. Okay?
I've tried to do well by you, Jack. By both of us.
I'm grateful, Frank. How much? For the singer.
I thought maybe twenty percent. Look, with the additional bookings we'll come out ahead. The big hotels, they want a pretty girl with a big voice. We have to stay competitive, Jack.
What's that?
You, Frank. All these years you been telling me we're different. We got novelty, Jack. No one can touch us.
Two pianos isn't enough anymore, Jack.
It never was.
Thirtyseven. Thirtyseven.
What?
Thirtyseven girls. And not one who can carry a tune. That must be statistically impossible.
It was a somewhat extraordinary day.
I just don't understand. You would think someone ... anyone ...
Jack.
Let's get it over with.
All right. What's your name?
What are you, crazy?
I just thought we should talk about it. Between ourselves.
What's there to talk about? She can sing. That puts her at the head of the class. That makes her the only one in the class.
I don't know ... She had gum on her lip, for Christ sake. I don't think she's right for the act.
You're getting cold feet about this.
I was just thinking what Ma would think.
Ma? Ma? Was Ma there the last time we played the Ambassador? Oh, that's right, she was on bass. How could I forget.
How many other silent partners are there, Frank? Donna? Little Cindy? Hell, let's give Eddie a vote.
Okay, okay. I'll call the girl.
What's the matter?
I didn't get her number.
I suppose we can bring it down a little.
I'll drop the eighths.
Okay?
Where the hell is she?
It's early.
I told everyone sevenfifteen. Didn't I? Sevenfifteen.
She'll get here.
Just like the day of the auditions, right? Jesus. How's my hair?
Awe inspiring.
Yeah, well, Your's isn't. Let me run a comb though it.
Get out of here.
Come on, stand still.
Get out of here!
It's not gonna hurt you.
I'll hit you, Frank. I swear.
You hit me.
I told you I was gonna hit you.
All right, all right. I'm a little tense.
You're a fucking alarm clock.
I just wish she'd get here, that's all.
She's here.
No.
Here, how's this?
See anything?
How about these?
Jack, for crying out loud. Your bachelorhood's showing. Ah, here we go.
Oh, brother.
And it's especially nice to be among friends tonight, because, well, tonight's a very special night for my brother and I. This evening we've asked a young lady to join us, a lady Jack and I are sure will soon seem like just another old friend to you all. She's making her debut here this evening and, as far as I'm concerned, she couldn't be doing it in a better place. Because there's one place that's always been for us a very special place, and that place is this place, the Ambassador Lounge. Ladies and gentlemen, please welcome a very special lady with a very special way of singing a song, Miss Susie Diamond.
Sounds like a booking agent looking to book an easy fee.
That's what I figure. Probably have us in a bedandbreakfast playing to the owls.
Make it collect.
That's it except for the first. We got the Sheraton, the Ambassador, or the Holiday Inn on Sixtieth. All threeday turns.
Better take care of your fingers, little brother. Buy yourself a case of arthritis and you won't be able to play 'Chopsticks.'
I'll take my chances.
Something, huh? All those bids.
Yeah. Something.
Yeah ... Well, I gotta go.
You wanna get a drink?
You all right?
Yeah, fine.
Okay I'll see you tomorrow night then.
Right.
Hey, Frank.
You recognized me.
Just a lucky guess.
So what do you think?
Very realistic.
Yeah, well, what can I say? Dad must've had forty pounds on me. Jesus, you remember him being this big?
Yeah.
Well, the line's growing weaker, little brother. Lucky for us there aren't any dragons left to slay.
You want to come out to the house tomorrow? The way the bookings been piling up, Donna's decided to really lay it on. Turkey, stuffing, the whole bit. Kitchen's so full of food you can hardly move. We could use another appetite.
Thanks, but I've got plans.
All right, but if you change your mind, let me know. I gotta go get Ma in the morning anyway.
When's the last time we played a wedding, Jack?
Two years ago. March.
November. '71.
First night?
Day. Wednesday.
Last?
Sunday.
I thought we had separate rooms.
We do. She's got hers, we've got ours. Hey. Wash and Dries.
I thought we all had separate rooms.
Come on, Jack. It's not like it's the first time we've bunked together. It'll be like when we were kids. Relax. Enjoy the view.
She was staying at the Grand downtown ...
It was April. April seventeenth. That one I remember.
We were playing the lounge one night and she came in.
Pearls. White gown. Beautiful.
Frank asked if she'd sit in for a song, she said yes, and we did a few bars.
A few bars!
He's drunk.
Not true. Besides, Jack's the romantic.
Have some more wine, Frank.
Good idea. To Peggy Lee.
I'm putting my stuff on the right, okay?
Okay.
I figure that way we won't get confused.
Right.
Unless you want the right.
No, you take the right.
We might as well do the towels the same way.
Okay.
I just figure things'll go smoother, you know, if we have it all worked out from the beginning.
Good idea.
But if it doesn't work out, let me know. I'm,flexible.
Right.
You leaving that on?
Yeah.
All night?
Yeah.
We're gonna be here a week?
Yeah.
So you're gonna leave it on. Every night. For a week.
Yeah. You mind?
Why would I mind?
I don't know. I mean, I always did it as a kid. I figured it was no big deal. Is it? A big deal?
Accommodate? I don't think I know what you mean.
I think what Mr. Daniels is trying to say, Jack, is 
Why don't we let Mr. Daniels tell us what he's trying to say.
Jack ... Jack ... You're acting like a kid.
No, that's your problem, Frank. You get around one of these assholes and you turn into a fucking threeyearold.
What's the matter with you? So the piano's a little out of tune. So what?
Christ, can't you hear it?
No! I never hear it! Maybe. Sometimes. I don't know. But I won't let it bother me.
Doesn't it matter to you?
What matters to me is we've got the six easiest nights we've had in ten years. So 'Tie a Yellow Ribbon' sounds a little flat. So what? Nobody's gonna hear it, Jack. Nobody. So why should you care?
Because I can hear it.
Well, then stuff cotton in your ears, because come six o'clock we're gonna walk into that dining room with smiles on. Understand, little brother?
Thank you, thank you. You know, Susie and Jack and I only just arrived here yesterday, but already the people here at the King Corporation's Moorish Manor have made us feel, well, a part of the family. And it's their hope that, before you leave, everyone of you will feel a part of that family also. So, if duringthe next few days, we should happen to pass one another in the hallway or in the lobby or wherever ... don't be a stranger. Stop. Say hello. Introduce yourself. Because here, there are no strangers, only friends. And family. Right, Jack?
Right. I love you, Frank.
What?
I love you. I just wanted to say it.
What's the matter with you?
I'm sorry, Frank. All that talk about family. I just got emotional.
How dare you say you love me.
It won't happen again. Scout's honor.
What the hell are you doing?
What's it look like I'm doing? I'm tuning a goddamn piano.
Really.
Yes, really. I don't want you to be unhappy, Jack. If you say it's out of tune, it's out of tune.
How's it coming?
Fine.
How long you been at it?
Halfhour. Once I finish this octave I'm gonna get breakfast. You see what's on the buffet?
They stopped serving two hours ago.
Two hours ago!
Time flies, huh?
You haven't seen Susie, have you?
No. Why?
Just wonder what she's up to. I never see her. Makes me nervous.
She's a big girl.
Yeah, well, she's our girl now. I think we better keep an eye on her. There's trouble there. Hey, listen to this. Ethel and Bert Lane. Married seventyfive years. You believe that?
What the hell are these?
Dedications. I came up with the idea on the road. See, every morning the maids drop one of these cards in each room. The guest fills out the card, leaves it at the front desk, and that night we play it. Daniels went crazy for the idea. And that's not all. Last night, after the nine o'clock, he corners me, right, and starts asking about our availability. Like he wants to line something up. I think he's got a hardon for Susie.
Funny, huh?
What?
Thinking there's someone who looks like you, walking around the street somewhere. Wonder if I saw him I'd think it was you?
What're you trying to do? Wake up the whole goddamn hotel?
We were just having a little discussion about morality.
You saw wrong.
Huh?
He's with the hotel. I called him.
What are you talking about?
We had a leak in the bathroom. He fixed it.
He was wearing a suit.
He had to come quickly. It was a big leak.
How come I didn't hear anything?
You're a heavy sleeper, Frank. You've alwaysbeen a heavy sleeper. Unlike me.
What're you doing down here?
Celebrating. Join me?
The party's over.
No, you're wrong. It's just beginning. Come on, have a drink. Show your big brother how it's done.
Expensive hangover.
A gift. Courtesy of our courteous hotel manager, Mr. Daniels. We, dear brother, are a fucking smash. Yup. They want us back. Easter. It seems they have this egg hunt every year. Only not for kids. Adults. They stuff these plastic eggs with Timexes and little certificates for free Mai Tais and everyone has a grand time crawling around on the front lawn. Then afterwards, they have a dance. An egg dance. Everyone comes dressed in a different colored shell and at the end of the evening they crack themselves open. It's our job to separate the yolks from the whites. Slippery business.
The Royal.
Right. The Royal. When's the last time we were there?
Couple years.
February?
April.
Right. It's incredible how you do that. Remember things.
A useless talent.
Drove me crazy when we were kids. The way you never looked at the music. Miss Simpson would just play it and ...
They were simple songs.
Not for me. I still have to look at the music sometimes, you know that? Otherwise, I forget. I just forget. But you. You never forget. Ever. So how come you couldn't remember Ma's birthday?
I told you. It's a useless talent.
God, the old man would've loved this view, wouldn't he?
Yeah.
I always think of him on New Year's. How he used to pour us each half a can of beer. Remember?
You always threw up.
Yeah, and you drank yours like it was orange juice. He loved that about you.
He was just having fun.
It was like you'd passed some test, you know?
It was just a can of beer, Frank.
Yeah, but he told you things. He never told me anything. Even though I was the oldest. It was always you two, running off, doing things together.
You could've come.
I could've. But he didn't want me to.
You're making things up, Frank.
Maybe so. You ever go back there? Where it happened.
That takes care of this week. The tenth we got the Sheraton, the sixteenth we're at the Capri.
The tenth's out.
What?
I can't make the tenth.
What do you mean?
I mean maybe you should check with us before you go off and book us a month in advance.
Be reasonable, Jack.
I play two hundred nights a year with you, Frank. How much more reasonable you expect me to be?
What're you doing?
Just until we find another girl.
Cancel, Frank.
You want to know how much I got tied up in deposits with Willie? We're in for three weeks solid, Jack.
Better give her pneumonia.
You know, my brother and I have been playing together, gosh, I don't know. Jack?
Twentyeight years.
We're not getting paid then.
No.
Nothing. We get nothing.
I told you, Jack. It's a telethon. No one gets a cent.
What's it for?
I don't know. Some disease.
What disease?
I don't know.
You don't know?
It's a disease, Jack. We're against it. It's not a moral decision.
What channels it on?
Seventyone
Seventyone? What's seventyone?
A channel. It's just a little further down the dial, that's all. Look, it's publicity. Publicity's publicity. Right?
We're on after Meadowlark. What's wrong?
Are you kidding me? Are you fucking kidding me?
What?
We're playing for a goddamn gymnasium!
What?
Jack, you're on television.
Shut up, Frank.
Whatare you? A fucking moron? It's three o'clock in the morning, Frank. Who's watching? Your wife? Maybe you can get us a gig playing Little Frank's birthday party. What do you think?
Look. I didn't know when we were going to be on until yesterday. What was I supposed to do? I had the pianos anyway.
Basketballs, Frank. You had us playing for basketballs.
I'm sorry. I should've checked it out. I screwed up. But that doesn't mean you walk out in the middle of a gig.
What?
It wasn't professional, Jack. It was a stunt. A stupidass stunt.
What's happening to you, Frank? You been kissing ass so long you're starting to like it? You let that guy turn us into clowns tonight. We were always small time, but we were never clowns, Frank. What's happened to your dignity?
Dignity? Who the hell are you to talk about dignity?
Stay off it.
No, let's stay on it. I'm sick and tired of watching you make him up into some kinda god. For Christ sake, Jack, he died doing a stupid bullshit jig. He left a wife and two sons. He wasn't a hero. He was a fool.
You weren't there.
That's right. I wasn't there. I don't have the luxury of being a witness to tragedy.
Fuck you.
No, fuck you. And fuck him too. Fuck the bothof you.
Jack!
Who's weak now, big brother?
I didn't hear you come in.
What're you doing?
Oh ... I was just hoping for something to drink. But it seems the old lady was dry. Not even a bottle of cooking sherry.
Uh, we already boxed some things. I figured you'd want to go through Dad's stuff. It's in there. If you want to get started.
Later.
Is everything done? The arrangements, I mean.
Oh. Yeah. It was all worked out before, you know. She and Dad had taken care of it.
Right.
I set it for Wednesday. The ceremony. They're doing the stone today. It's okay? Wednesday?
Yeah, fine.
There's not going to be a viewing. I figured with the kids and all ...
Sure.
Go ahead.
No.
Bought it on the way over. Clean as a nun.
No, it's not that. I ... can't drink from the bottle. I ... gag.
Oh, yeah, right. I forgot.
Hey, what do you know. Looks like we can have that drink after all. What's your pleasure? We got the downtown Ramada. We got the Travelodge on Route 41. And ... the Mallory.
I'll take the Mallory.
Good choice.
Looks like these got a few years on them.
This'll kill 'em.
How're your hands?
Oh. Fine. It was nothing. Couple sore knuckles. Nothing.
You know, that night, I ... It just all came up.
Yeah, I know. Me, too.
I mean, you can play. You're okay.
I can keep the beat.
Charlie called.
Yeah?
Yeah. Larry Shelton. Blackie. Couple others. Donna said even Lloyd called the other day. Nothing like a little absence to make the heart grow fonder, huh?
Yeah.
Jesus, when was the last time we played the Mallory?
Five years ago. November.
Right. It was someone's birthday. Halloran?
Daughter's. Sweet sixteen.
Christ, that's right. How could I forget. What a nightmare.
She asked for it.
I told Halloran we didn't do vocals, but he said:
What happened to the two Clays, Willie?
Out.
When they coming in?
Wednesday next. Frank looks across the room at Jack.
What's the gig?
Two nights.
Tag 'em, Willie. The Regency downtown, ThursdayFriday. Thanks.
My pleasure.
Well, if it isn't the fabulous Baker Boys!
How's the birthday girl?
A little stiffer, but just as sturdy.
Uh, Ma, you know, no one calls him that anymore. Jack. He goes by Jack.
I thought maybe held gotten over that.
Twenty years, Ma ...
Yes, yes. It's just that John is so much nicer. Jack sounds so ... crude. When I was a little girl, we had a pig on the farm named Jack. I guess I just can't help making the association.
Uh ... yeah, well, you know, Ma, John Kennedy went by Jack.
Catholics. What do you expect? Oh, well, what's in a name, right? Let's go inside and have a look at that cake.
Oh my God ...
Recognize these two characters?
I thought these were lost. Where did you find ...
In the attic. Behind some of Dad's stuff. Look, Jack can hardly reach the pedals.
Oh no!
I had a boy down at the camera shop cut them all together. Boy, old man Henderson didn't fool around when he gave a haircut, did he, Jack?
Oh, look at you two. So skinny. And those tiny suits ...
Wait. Watch. Here comes Dad.
You the magician?
No.
Oh. What do you do?
Piano.
Two at a time?
My brother and I. One each.
Oh.
What's wrong with the kid?
Knee. Tore it up against St. Anthony's. Right before the accident.
Accident?
The fire. The way we're going we'll be lucky to buy a carton of jockstraps, let alone a new gym.
What do you say we go for a walk, pal.
Get your hand off me.
Come on, friend. I can smell it on you. Get yourself a cup of coffee. You'll forget what you're angry about.
Go fuck yourself.
You're a real tough guy when the ladies are around, aren't you, Ace?
I don't see any ladies here. Except maybe you.
Beasley.
Baker.
What's our friend's problem?
Teeth.
What's wrong with them?
They're falling out.
Uhoh. That's not good. Let's get him up here.
They gotta go.
How many?
Five's my guess. Maybe more. Won't know till I get in there. Leave him now and you can pick him up in the morning.
Isn't there something you can give him? A pill or something?
Decay unfortunately doesn't limit itself to the denture, Mr. Baker. It spreads into his chest. Then the heart goes. We wouldn't want that, would we?
How will he eat?
Start him out on cottage cheese. If you've got him on kibble, just soak it a few minutes. Go down like pudding through a hot pipe.
No bones?
No bones.
What do you do to him?
Don't worry, Mr. Baker. We'll knock him out. He won't feel a thing.
I think maybe I'll bring him back next week ...
The sooner we do this the better, Mr. Baker.
Nothing's the matter. Is it, sweetheart?
I'll take her inside. You too, little Frank. Out of the pool.
Well, look at this.
You bring trunks, Jack?
Honey ...
You believe this? The kid won't come out. I'm playing 'Camptown Races' for him and the next thing I know he's locked himself in the bathroom. There's nothing sharp in there, is there?
Honey ...
Where are our kids? Has he got one of them in there?
Frank.
Trunks?
Swimming trunks.
Oh. No. Strictly dryland.
Too bad. You could use some sun. Really.
Maybe next time.
We have some lotion.
Just the same.
Suit yourself.
Frankie.
You wanted to see me, Charlie?
Yeah, come on in.
Little slow tonight.
Mondays.
What's this?
Your pay.
Now? Why not tomorrow? After the show.
Take it now.
What about tomorrow?
We don't need you, Frankie.
I've got the grands for two nights, Charlie. You can't just 
It's all there. Both nights.
What're you saying, Charlie?
Look, Frankie. You and Jack been playing here, a long time.
Twelve years.
Right, twelve years. Couple times a month.
So?
So maybe it's time we took a vacation from each other.
Vacation? Christ, Charlie, it's a Monday night. You said so yourself.
It wasn't half full out there tonight, Frankie. I got six waiters standing in back listening to baseball. I gotta move the liquor. To move the liquor, I gotta fill the tables. It's a matter of economics. Me, I love you. I love both you guys, you know that. You're class. But people today. They don't know class if it walks up and grabs 'em by the balls.
Give me the keys.
You're not going to drive.
Give me the keys!
You're not going to drive!
It's my goddamn car!
It's our goddamn car!
Give me the keys.
No.
Are you comfortable Regan?
Yes.
How old are you?
Twelve.
Is there someone inside you?
Sometimes.
Who is it?
I don't know.
Is it Captain Howdy?
I don't know.
If I ask him to tell me, will you let him answer?
No.
Why not?
I'm afraid.
If he talks to me, I think he'll leave you. Do you want him to leave you?
Yes.
Miss?
Yes?
We want to see Mrs. Karras.
Do you have an appointment?
Yes
Are you a relative?
Yes I am her brother, he's the son
Just a minute.
MERRIN!!!!!!!
Are you tired?
Stick your cock up her ass! You mother fucking, worthless cocksucker!
Be silent!
Your mother sucks cocks in hell Karras, you faithless slime!
O'Lord hear my prey.
Almighty Lord, word of God the father Jesus Christ, God and Lord of all creation, who gave to your holy apostle the power to tramp underfoot serpents and scorpions. Grant me, your unworthy servant pardon for all my sins...
Bastards! Stop!
I cast you out!!! Unclean spirit...!
Shove it up your ass you faggot!
...in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ!!! It is he who commands you! He who flung you from the heights of Heaven to the depths of hell!
Fuck him!!!
...Be gone!!
Fuck him Karras!!! Fuck him!!!
...from this creature of God!!!
...look down in pity...
You killed your mother!!! You left her alone to die!!!! She'll never forgive you!!! Bastard!!!
Have we met?
No we haven't met, but they said I could tell; that you looked like a boxer.
William F. Kinderman. Homicide.
What's this about?
Yeah, it's true. You do look like a boxer. John Garfield, in Body and Soul. Exactly John Garfield anyone told you that Father?
Do people tell you look like Paul Newman?
Always.
You this director was doing a film here, Burke Dennings?
I've seen him.
You've seen him. You're also familiar with how last week he died?
Only what I read in the papers.
Papers. Tell me, what do you know about the subject of witchcraft? From the witching end, not the hunting.
I once did a paper on it
Really?
From the psychiatric end.
I know. I read it. These desecration's in the churchyou think they have anything to do with witchcraft?
Maybe. Some rituals used in Black Mass. Maybe.
And Dennings, you read how he died?
Yeah, a fall.
Let me tell you how Father, and please confidential. Burke Dennings, good Father, was found at the bottom of those steps leading to 'M' Street, with his head turned completely around. Facing backwards.
Couldn't it of happened on the fall.
It's possible. Possible however
Unlikely.
Exactly. So on the one hand we've got a witchcraft type of murder and a Black Mass style of desecration in the church.
You think the killer and the desecrator are the same?
Maybe somebody crazy, someone with a spite against the church, some unconscious rebellion, perhaps.
Sick priest, is that it?
Look, Father this is hard for you please. But for priests on the campus here, you're the psychiatrist; you'd know who was sick at the time, who wasn't. I mean this kind of sickness. You'd know that.
I don't know anyone who fits the description.
Ah, doctor's ethics. If you knew you wouldn't tell, huh?
No I probably wouldn't.
Not to bother you with trivia, but a psychiatrist in sunny California was thrown in jail for not telling the judge what he knew about a patient.
Is that a threat?
No, I mentioned it only in passing.
Incidentally I mention only in passing that I could tell the judge that it was a matter of confession.
Hey, Father? You like movies?
Very much.
I get passes to the best shows in town. Mrs. K though, she gets tired and never likes to go.
That's to bad.
Yeah, I hate to go alone. You know, I like to talk film; discuss the critique. D'you wanna see a film with me? I got passes to The Crest. It's Othello.
Who's in it?
Who's in it? Debbie Reynolds, Desdemona, and Othello, Groucho Marx. You're happy?
I've seen it.
One last time: Can you think of some priest who fits the bill?
Come on!
Answer the question, Father Paranoia.
Alright. You know who I think really did it?
Who?
The Dominicans. Go pick on them.
I could have you deported, you know that?
No.
I would like you to go quickly over to the resdence Damien, and gather up a cassock for myself, two surplices, a purple stole, and some holy water, and your copy of The Roman Ritual. The Large one. I believe we should begin.
Do you want to hear the background of the case, first?
Why?
We may ask what is relevant, but anything beyond that is dangerous. He is a liar, the demon is a liar. He will lie to confuse us. But he will also mix lies with the truth to attack us. The attack is psychological , Damien. And powerful. So don't listen, remember that, do not listen.
I think it would be helpful if I gave you some background on the different personalities Regan has manifested. So far, there seems to be three. She's convinced
There's only one.
Hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come, thy will be done, on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day, our daily bread, and forgive us our trespasses, as we forgive those who trespass against us. And lead us not into temptation.
But deliver us from the evil one.
Save me o' God by thy name, by thy might defend my cause, proud men have risen up against me, men of violence seek my life, but God is my helper, the Lord sustains my life and every need he has delivered to me, glory be to the Father, the Son and the Holy Spirit.
As it was in the begin is now and ever shall be, world without end, amen.
Save your servant
Who places her trust in thee, my God.
Be unto her o' Lord a fortified tower.
In the face of the enemy.
Let the enemy have no power over her.
And the son of iniquity be powerless to harm her.
And let my cry come unto thee.
The Lord be with you.
And also with you.
Let us pray. Holy Lord, almighty Father, everlasting God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who once and for all consigned that fallen tyrant to the flames of hell. Who sent your only begotten son into the world to crush that roaring lion.
...and to redeem through your son. Who lives and reigns with you, in the unity of the holy spirit, God forever and ever.
Amen
O'Lord hear my preyer.
Father Karras? Father Karras? Damien? The reponse please Damien!
And let my cry come unto thee.
...and the power to confront this cruel demon.
Amen
See the cross of the Lord. Be gone you hostile power. O'Lord hear my prayer.
And let my cry come unto thee.
The Lord be with you.
And also with you.
Amen.
Defender of the human race...
Shut up!!
... upon this your servant, Regan Teresa MacNeil.
Why this girl it makes no sense?
I think the point is to make us dispair... To see our selves as... animal and ugly... To reject the possibillity that God could love us.
What is it?
Her heart.
Can you give her something?
She'll go into coma.
You're not my mother!!!
Don't listen.
I'm all right.
How's your leg?
Your Uncle John stopped by to visit me.
Oh really, when?
Last month.
Is that too tight?
No.
Now momma you have to stay off it, you can't keep go up and down those stairs you have to give it rest.
Okay
Momma I can take you somewhere to a place where you wouldn't be alone. There'd be people around, you know you won't have to sit here listening to the radio.
Dimmy, you worry for something?
No momma.
You are not happy. Tell me what is the matter?
Momma, I'm all right, I'm fine, really I am.
Hello Regan. I'm a friend of your mother, I'd like to help you.
You might loosen the straps then.
I'm affraid you might hurt yourself Regan.
I'm not Regan.
I see. Well then let's introduce ourselves, I'm Damien Karras.
And I'm the Devil! Now kindly undo these straps!
If you're the devil, why not make the straps disappear?
That's much to vulgar a display of power Karras.
Where's Regan?
In here. With us.
Show me Regan and I'll loosen one of the straps.
Your mother's in here with us Karras, would you like to leave a message? I'll see that she gets it.
If that's true, then you must know my mother's maiden name. What is it?
He broke the bread, gave it to his disciples and said "Take this, all of you and eat. For this is my body." When the supper had ended, he took the cup, again he gave you thanks and praise. Gave the cup to his disciples and said "Take this, all of you will drink from it, this is the cup of blood, the blood of the new and ever lasting covenant and the mystery of faith".
What an excellent day for an exorcism.
You'd like that?
Intensely.
But wouldn't that drive you out of Regan?
It would bring us together.
You and Regan?
You and us.
Did you do that?
Uh Huh.
Do it again.
In time.
No now.
In time. But mirabile dictu, don't you agree?
You speak Latin?
Ego te abslovo.
Quod nomen mihi est?
Bon Jour.
Quod nomen mihi est?
La plume de ma tante.
How long are you planning to stay in Regan?
Until she rots and lie stinking in the earth.
What's that?
Holy water.
Ydob eht ni mraw si ti! Uoy ees I! Tseirp a si eh! Emit su evig! Nirrem! Nirrem!
Who are you?
Tseirp a si eh! Eno on ma I! Eno on ma I! Ahhhhhhhhhhh!
I am no one! I am no one! He is a priest!
Uoy era ohw.
Merrin! Merrin!
I am no one! I am no one! He is a priest!
Uoy era ohw.
Lieutenant?
I came to say goodbye.
You just missed them.
How's the girl?
She seemed fine.
Ah, that's good. That's all that's important. Back to business. Back to work. Bye now, Father.
Good bye.
Do you like films?
Sure.
I get passes. In fact I got a pass for The Crest tomorrow night. Would you like to go?
What's playing.
Withering Heights.
Who's in it?
Heathcliff, Jackie Gleason, and in the role of Catherine Earnshaw, Lucille Ball.
I've seen it.
Another one. Had your lunch?
No.
Where'd you get the money for the Chivas Regal? The poor box?
That's an insult, I got a vow of poverty.
Where'd you get it then?
I stole it.
I believe you.
College president shouldn't drink. Tends to set a bad example, I figure I saved them from a big temptation.
Oh Christ! I should of been there and I wasn't there, I should've been there.
There was nothing you could do. Lye down. C'mon.
Think you can sleep?
Are you gonna steal my shoes now?
No, I tell fortunes by reading the crease, now shut up and go to sleep.
Goodnight Dims.
Stealing is a sin.
Pathological states can induce abnormal strength, accelerated motor performance. For example, a ninetypound women sees her child pinned under the wheel of a truck, runs out and lifts the wheels half a foot up off the ground. You know the story, same thing here. Same principle, I mean.
So what's wrong with her?
There haven't been more than a hundred authenticated cases of so called split personality, Mrs. MacNeil. Now I know the temptation is to leap to psychiatry, but any reasonable psychiatrist would exhaust the somatic possibilities first.
So what's next?
A pneumoencephelogram, I would think, pin down that lesion. It will involve another spinal.
Oh, Christ.
What we missed in the EEG and the arteriogram could conceivably turn up there. At the least, it would eliminate certain other possibilities.
Over behind the church, you know where I mean over there, it's a red brick wing?
St. Mike's.
What goes down there? I mean who's the priest I keep seeing, he's there all the time. He has black hair and he's very intense looking?
Damien Karras.
Karras.
That's his office back of St. Mike's. He's our psychiatric counsellor. He had a pretty rough knock last night poor guy, his mother passed away. She was living by herself and I guess she was dead a couple of days before they found her.
Hi Chris. Great party.
Yeah, don't stop. Keep going.
Listen, I don't need any encouragement, but my idea of heaven is a solid white night club, with me as the head liner, for all eternity and they love me.
She doesn't remeber a thing.
That's good.
Goodbye Father. I call you.
Okay.
What did you do today?
Um........Stuff.
What kind of stuff?
Well, me and Sharon played a game in the back yard, and we had a picnic down by the river.
Oh mom, you should have seen this man came along on this beautiful grey horse. Wasn't it pretty?
Really, what kind was it a mair or guilding?
Think it was a guilding. It was grey. Oh it was so beautiful, the guy let me ride it all around.
Your kidding?
Well, not while we're in Washington.
Oh............
We'll see when we get home okay.
When can I have one?
We'll see Regan. Now about those party invitations.......
Oh look at that.
You like it?
Oh it's so funny.
Hey, where'd this come from?
I found it.
Where?
The closet
You've been playing with it?
Yeah.
You know how?
Here I'll show you.
Wait a minute you need two.
No you don't. I do it all the time.
Oh yeah, well let's both play.
You really don't want me to play huh?
No I do, Captain Howdy said no.
Captain who?
Captain Howdy.
Who's Captain Howdy?
You know, I make the questions and he does the answers.
Oh, Captain Howdy....
He's nice.
Oh I bet he is.
Here I'll show you.
Captain Howdy, Do you think my mom's pretty? Captain Howdy? Captain Howdy that isn't very nice.
Well, maybe he's sleeping.
You think?
Regan, why are you reading that?
Cause I like it.
It's not even a good picture. Looks to mature.
I wouldn't talk.
Oh you wouldn't talk, well I didn't have my make up man there.
What are we gonna do on your birthday, isn't that nice it's on a Sunday this year, what can we do?
I don't know
Well what would you like to do? Got any ideas?
Yeah
Okay. And tomorrow night, I'll take you to a movie, okay?
Oh I love you.
I love you Rags. We'll have a good day yeah?
You can bring Mr. Dennings if you like.
Mr. Dennings?
Well you know it's okay.
Well thank you very much but why on earth would I want to bring Burke on your birthday?
You like him.
Yeah I like him. Don't you like him? Hey what's going on? What is this?
Your not gonna marry him are you?
Oh my god, you kidding, me marry Burke Dennings don't be silly, of course not.
What?
Where'd you ever get an idea like that?
But you like him.
Course I like him, I like pizzas to but I'm not gonna marry one.
Do you not like him like daddy?
Oh Regan I love your daddy. I'll always love your daddy. Burke just comes around here a lot because he's lonely, don't got nothin' to do.
Well I heard differently.
Oh you did. What did you hear?
I don't know, I just thought.
Well your thinking's not so good.
How do you know?
Cause Burke and I are just friends. Okay, really.
Okay.
People get tired.
Why does God let us get tired?
God gets lonesome for us, Rags. He wants us back.
What are you doing here?
My bed was shaking, I can't get to sleep.
Oh, honey.
Oh my God!
Make it stop! What's wrong!! I'm scared!!!
I don't want it.
Honey it's to help you.
Mother please! Oh please mother make it stop! It's burning, it's burning please mother!
So something please Doctor, Help her!
Make it stop,it really hurts! Mother! Make it...
All done.
Honey this is Father Dyer.
Hi Father.
Chris MacNeil?
Please go away.
I'm Father Karras.
Oh, I'm very sorry Father. Hi.
That's okay. I should've told you I wouldn't be in uniform.
Yeah, it would've helped. Have you gotta cigarette Father?
So, how'd a shrink ever get to be a priest?
It's the other way around. The society sent me through med school.
Where?
Harvard, Bellevue, John Hopkins.
You're a friend of Father Dyer, right?
Yes am.
Pretty close?
Pretty close.
Did he tell you about my party?
Sure did.
About my daughter?
No I didn't know you had one.
He didn't mention?
No.
Didn't tell you of what she did?
He didn't mention her.
Priests keep pretty tight mouthed then?
That depends.
On what?
The priest.
I mean, what if a person, let's say, was a criminal, like maybe a murderer or something, you know? If he came to you for help, would you have to turn him in?
If he came to me for spritual help, I'd say no.
You wouldn't.
No I wouldn't. But I'd try to persuade him to turn himself in.
And how do you go about getting an exorcism?
I beg your pardon?
If a person was possessed by a demon of some kind, how do you go about getting an exorcism?
Well, the first thing I'd do is put them into a time macine and send them back to the sixteenth century.
I didn't get you?
Well it just doesn't happen anymore Mrs. MacNeil.
Oh yeah, since when?
Since we learned about mental illness, paranoia, schizophrenia. All the things they taught me in Harvard. Mrs. MacNeil since the day I joined the Jesuits, I've never met one priest who has performed an exorcism, not one.
Yeah well, it just so happens that somebody very close to me is probably possessed, and needs an exorcist.
That's all the more reason to forget about exorcism.
Why, I don't understand?
To begin with it could make things worse.
But how?
Well before the church approves an exorcism, it conducts an investigation to see if it's warranted. That takes time. In the meantime...
You could do it yourself...
No I couldn't, I have to have church approval, and frankly, that's rarely given,
Could you see her?
Yes I could, I could see her as a psychiatrist...
Not a psychiatrist! She needs a priest! She's already seen every fucking psychiatrist in the world and they sent me to you, now you're gonna send me back to them! Jesus Christ, won't somebody help her!
No, you don't understand. Your daughter
Oh, will you help her! Just help her!
Thanks. Look, I'm only against the possibility of doing your daughter more harm than good.
Nothing you could do would make it any worse.
I can't do it. I need evidence that the church would accept as signs of possession.
Like what?
Like her speaking in a language that she's never known or studied.
What else?
I don't know. I'll have to look it up.
I thought you were supposed to be an expert.
There are no experts. You probably know as much about possession than most priests. Look your daughter doesn't say she's a demon, she says she's the devil himself and if you've seen as many psychotics as I have, you'd know it's like saying you're Napoleon Bonaparte. You ask me what I think is best for your daughter. Six months, under observation in the best hospital you can find.
You show me Regan's double: same face, same voice, same everything. I'd know it wasn't Regan. I'd know in my gut and I'm telling you that that thing upstairs isn't my daughter! And I want you to tell me that you know for a fact that there's nothing wrong with my daughter except in her mind! You tell me you know for a fact that an exorcism wouldn't do any good! You tell me that!
Did Regan know a priest was coming over?
No.
Did you know my mother died recently?
Yes I did, I'm sorry.
No, is Regan aware of it?
Not at all. Why d'you ask?
It's not important good night.
Wanna drink.
Please.
What do you drink?
No it's alright I'll take it straight.
Are you sure?
It's fine really, sit.
Where's Regan's father?
In Europe.
Have you told him what's happening?
No
Well I think you should.
I told Regan that was holy water, I sprinkled some on her and she reacted very violently. It's tap water.
What's the difference?
Holy water's blessed. And that doesn't help support a case for possession.
She...killed Burke Dennings.
What?
She killed Burke Dennings. She pushed him out of the window.
Yes. He's already here.
Father?
Is she gonna die?
No.
A disorder of the nerves. At least we think it is. We don't know yet exactly how it works, but it's often seen in earl adolescence. She shows all the symptoms: the hyperactivity; the temper; her performance in math.
Why the math?
It affects concentration.
Now this is for Ritalin. Ten miligrams a day.
What is it? A tranquilizer?
A stimulant.
Stimulant? She's higher than a kite right now!
Her condition isn't quite what it seems. Nobody knows the cause of her hyperkinetic behaviour in a child. The Ritalin sems to work to relieve the condition, but we really don't know how or why, frankly. Your daughter's symptoms could be an overreaction to depression but that's out of my field.
Depression?
Well, you mentioned her father... the divorce.
Do you think I should take her to see a psychiatrist?
Oh no. I'd wait and see what happens with the Ritalin. I think that's the answer. Wait two or three weeks.
And those lies she's been telling?
Lies?
Ya know, those things to get attention, like saying that her bed shakes and stuff.
Have you ever known your daughter to swear and use obscenities?
Never.
Well, you see, that's quite similar to things like her lying uncharacter
Wait a minute. What are you talking about?
Well, she let loose quite a string while I was examining her, Mrs. MacNeil.
You're kidding! Like what?
Well, I'd say her vocabulary's rather extensive.
Well, what, for example? I mean, give me a for instance!
Hey, come on, I'm grownup. What'd she say? I mean specifically, Doctor.
Well, specifically, Mrs. MacNeil, she advised me to keep my fingers away from her goddam cunt.
She used those words?
She used those words. Look, I doubt that she even understood what she was saying.
Yeah, I guess. Maybe not. You don't think a psychiatrist?
The best explanation is always the simplest one. Let's wait. Let's wait and see. In the meantime try not to worry.
Well, It's a symptom of a type of desturbance in the chemico electrical activity of the brain. In the case of your daughter in the temperal lobe, up here in the lateral part of the brain. It's rare, but it does cause bizarre hallucinations and usually just before a convulsion.
Convulsion?
The shaking of the bed, that's doubtless due to musuclar spasms.
Oh no, that was no spasm. I got on the bed, the whole bed was thumping and rising off the floor and shaking. The whole thing, with me on it!
Mrs. MacNeil the problem with your daughter is not her bed, it's her brain.
So, what causes this?
Lesion, Lesion in the temperal lobe. It's a kind of seizure disorder.
Look doc, I really don't understand how her whole personality could change.
The temperal lobe is very common. Could last for days, even weeks. It isn't rare to find destructive or even criminal behaviour.
Hey do me a favour will ya'. Tell me something good.
Don't be alarmed. If it's a lesion in a way she's fortunate. All we have to do is remove the scar.
She's heavily sedated. She'll probably sleep through tomorrow.
What was going on in there, how could she jump off the bed like that?
We still think the temporal lobe...
Oh. What are you talking about for Christ sake! Did you see her or not? She's acting like a fucking out of her mind psychotic or a split personality or...
Do you keep any drugs in your house?
No. Of course not, nothing like that.
Are you sure?
Well of course I'm sure. I'd tell you. Christ, I don't even smoke grass.
Are you planning to be home soon? LA, I mean.
No. I'm building a new house, the old one's been sold. I was going to take Regan to Europe for a while, after she finished school here. Why d'you ask?
I think it's time we started looking for a psychiatrist.
Morning.
Good morning Mrs. MacNeil.
How are you today?
Fine thank you.
That's good.
Is it coming out Willie?
Yes, I think so.
Good morning Madame.
Good morning Karl. Oh Karl, we've got rats in the attic you better get some traps.
Rats?
Uh huh. 'Fraid so.
But it's clean?
All right then we've got clean rats.
No. No rats.
I just heard them Karl.
Yeah or maybe rats now will you just get those traps.
Yes, I go now.
Well don't go now Karl the stores aren't open yet.
There is nothing.
Oh Karl, Jesus Christ Karl, don't do that.
Very sorry, but you see, no rats!
No rats. Thanks a lot that's terrific.
Bastard! I will kill you.
Karl!!
Karl? Did you put this in Regan's bedroom?
She is going to be well?
Karl if you put this in Regan's room I want you to tell me, now did you?
No. It wasn't me. I didn't.
Excuse me Miss?
What!
A man to see you.
What man?
Excuse me Madame? Will there be anything else?
No thanks Karl.
Does your daughter remember if perhaps Mr. Dennings was in her room in her room that night?
No, she was heavily sedated.
It's serious?
Yes, I'm affraid it is.
May I ask...?
We still don't know.
Watch out for drafts. A draft in the fall when the house is hot is a magic carpet for bacteria.
Strange...strange...so baffling. The deceased comes to visit, stays only twenty minutes, and leaves all alone a very sick girl. And speaking plainly Mrs. MacNeil, as you say, it's not likely he would fall from a window. Besides that, a fall wouldn't do to his neck what we found except maybe a chance in a thousand. My hunch? My opinion? I believe he was killed by a very powerful man: point one. And the fracturing of the skull  point two  plus the various things I have mentioned, would make it very probable  probable, not certain  that the deceased was killed and then pushed from your daughter's window. But noone was here except your daughter. So how could this be? It could be one way: if someone came calling between the time Miss Spencer left and the time you returned. The servants, they have visitors?
No. Not at all,
You were expecting a deliver y that day?
Not that I know of.
Groceries maybe? A package?
I really wouldn't know, you see Karl takes care of that.
Oh, I see.
Want to ask him?
Never mind.
Would you like some more coffee?
Please.
Incidentally, just a chance in a million, I know; but your daughter  you could possibly ask her if she saw Mr. Dennings in her room that night?
Look, he wouldn't have any reason to be up there in the first place.
I know that. I realize. But if a certain British doctor never asked "What's this fungus?" we wouldn't today have penicillin. Correct?
When she's well enough, I'll ask.
Couldn't hurt. In the meantime...
I hate to ask you this but... for my daughter could you maybe give an autograph?
Of course. Have you got a pen?
Oh, she'd love it.
What's her name?
I lied. It's for me. The spelling is on the back, Kinderman. You know that film you made called Angel? Isaw that six times.
Really? wow.
Thank you.
You're a nice man.
Hello?
In here!
Hi
Hi, how'd your day go?
Oh not to bad, kinda like the Walt Disney version of the Ho Chi Minh story, but other than that it was terrific.
Here.
Oh great, anything else?
And you got an invitation.
What's this?
Dinner at the White House.
Your kidding me. What is it a big party or something?
Just five or six people.
No kidding.
Hello? Yes this is Mrs. MacNeil. Operator you have got to be kidding I have been on this line for twenty minutes. Jesus Christ, can you believe this, he doesn't even call his daughter on her birthday for christ sake.
Maybe the circuit is busy?
Oh circuit my ass, he doesn't give a shit!
Why don't you let me?
What the hell do you mean going out and leaving Regan by her self! What are you kidding her window's wide open...
What didn't he tell you?
Didn't who tell me?
Burke.
What's Burke got to do with it?
Well, when I went to get the Thorazine I had him to stay with her and... Oh, I should of known better.
Yeah, well I guess you should've.
What did the doctor say?
We have to start looking for a shrink.
Oh Burke! Poor Burke!
I can't believe it.
This was under Regan's pillow. Did you put it there?
Of course I didn't.
Where do you want this?
What is it?
Phonograph.
Storage.
I'm gonna miss you.
Me too.
Sure you won't change your mind?
Quite frankly, we don't know much about it except that it's starts with some conflict or guilt that eventually leads to the patient's delusion that his body's been invaded by an alien intellegence; a spirit if you will.
Look, I'm telling you again and you'd better believe it, I'm not about to put her in a goddamn asylum!
It's
And I don't care what you call it! I'm not putting her away!
I'm sorry.
You're sorry. Christ, eightyeight doctors and all you can tell me is all of your bullshit...
It's a stylized ritual in which rabbis or priests try to drive out the socalled invading spirit. It's pretty much discarded these days, except by the Catholics who keep it in the closet as a sort of embarrassment. It has worked, in fact, although not for the reason they think, of course. It was purely the force of suggestion. The victim's belief in possession helped cause it; and just in the same way this belief in the power of exorcism can make it disappear.
You're telling me that, I should take my daughter to a witch doctor? Is that it?
You're convinced that it's genuine.
I don't know. No, not really I suppose. But I've made a prudent judgement that it meets the conditions set down in the Ritual.
You'd want to do the exorcism yourself?
Yes.
It might be best to have a man with experience. Maybe someone who's spent time in the foreign missions.
I see, your excellency.
Let's see whose around. In the meantime I'll call you as soon as I know.
Thank you your excellency.
Well, he does know the background. I doubt there's any danger in just having him assist. There should be a psychiatrist present, anyway.
And what about the exorcist? Any ideas?
How about Lankaster Merrin.
Merrin? I had notion he was over in Iraq. I think I read he was working on a dig around Nineveh.
That's right Mike. But he's finished and came back around three ot four months ago, He's in Woodstock now.
What's he doing there? Teaching?
No, he's working on another book.
Don't you think he's too old, though? How's his health?
It must be alright. He's still running around digging up tombs. Besides, he's had experience.
I didn't know that.
Ten maybe twelve years ago, in Africa. The exorcism supposedly lasted for months. I heard it damn near killed him.
Burke take a look at this damn thing it just doesn't make sense.
Why it's perfectly plain, your the teacher at the college, you don't want the building torn down.
C'mon I can read for Christ sake.
Well what's wrong?
Well why are they tearing the building down?
Shall we summon the writer? He's in Paris I believe.
Hiding?
What honey?
Fuck it.
It's done. A truce. We meet at the river.
Talk. Lovers murmuring to each other...
I should butcher all and every one of them. Merlin, what is this wagging of tongues?
Just show the sword.
Behold the sword of power, Excalibur. Before Uther, it belonged to Lud, before Lud, to Beowulf, before Beowulf to Baldur the Good, before Baldur to Thor himself and that was when the world was young and there were more than seven colors in the rainbow. Speak the words.
One land, one king! That is my peace!
I have walked my way since the beginning of time. Sometimes I give, sometimes I take. It is mine to know which, and when.
Dumb riddles, Merlin. I am your King.
I swear it. By Excalibur and the holy
What issues from your lust will be mine. Swear it again.
I swear it.
Merlin! Out of the sick sleep at last.
Doing what I did for you, it wasn't easy, you know. It takes it's toll. It took nine moons to get back my strength.
Now you must pay me.
I?
The child is mine, Uther. I have come for him.
The oath. You didn't say
You didn't ask!
It's not for you, Uther, hearth and home, wife and child.
To kill and be king, is that all?
Maybe not even that, Uther. I thought once that you were the one to unite the land under one sword. But it'll take another, a greater king...
You strike me with words as hard as steel.
They are not weapons, my friend, but truths. You betrayed the Duke, stole his wife and took his castle, now no one trusts you. Lot, Uryens, your allies will turn against you. Give me the child, Uther, I will protect him. Go back to your war tent.
You left your husband's side? You left your brother's wedding?
Is that Mandrake, Lord Merlin?
It is.
Can it truly be used for magic?
No, no, of course not. You are young...
I'm not jealous!
It's clear you are, and it irks me.
No. Yes, I am. I am jealous. I want to write poems about you with moonbeams, make the sea sing your name...
A lovestruck page!
Shh... yes, yes. Sit with me, please... Morgana.
I showed you all my conjuring tricks...
The deepest secrets, the forbidden formulas...
Maybe... maybe...
You know what I want. I want the secret of true magic, how to thicken the stuff of dreams and wishes with the flesh of the world.
That I cannot.
When Arthur built the castle, I carved out a place for myself, where I could laugh or sleep, and no one would bother me.
People make you laugh?
They do.
Why?
You are truly magnificent!
Flattery! Do you think I am ignorant of your stupid little games? Preying on you weakness of others. That's your power, a petty evil. Mine is great. Great plans. Impossible dreams. Laughable endings...
Merlin, the powers of Summoning, the true Name of the charms of Doing and Undoing. Show me!
I won't. You would misuse such power. I have paid enough for you, and I will have you.
What do you want? You must desire it for me to weave it.
Walls of shining crystals, burning with red fire, furnishings of metals and jewels never seen by man...
You provoke me, Merlin.
What's behind that beauty? A wizened, coldhearted snake.
I am the cloudburst that quenches the flames.
I am the desert, where water disappears
I am the sea, which covers the desert forever under its weight.
I am the fog and mists that rise up from the sea, escaping...
Just a man. A knight in the King's service.
You're a man?! ...with metal skin!
Very well. Climb up.
I will run.
Listen, boy, it's more than twenty days from here.
Twenty days!? The world is that big?
I have found you. The Queen. An apple. Tomorrow. Sir Gawain...
It must wait, child. These good ladies, for whom I intervened once, will honor me with a meal. I am beholden to them now as I was when they begged my protection.
The wellkept secret is whether any of them has won your heart.
No.
Why?
I am a fighting man and I am married to the quest. That is enough.
And there is no maiden in the whole world who inspires you?
There is one.
Who?!
You.
Me?
Yes. I would swear my love to you.
To me? But why?
I cannot love as a woman the lady who will be wife to my King and my friend. And, in pledging my love to you, I cannot love any other woman.
The law forbids it.
Love demands it.
There are things about love
Nothing!
Why didn't he kill us?
He has given up.
The King without his sword, the land without a king...
We are to blame.
Who does it serve?
You, my lord.
I have waited long for you. Once you almost saw, but fear blinded you. Why am I served from the chalice?
Because you and the land are one.
I am wasting away and I cannot die. And I cannot live.
You and the land are one. Drink from the chalice. You will be reborn and the land with you.
It didn't hurt too much, did it?
Ye...
I'm pretty good at stitchery. I've sewn my father's wounds more than once.
But I have to leave tomorrow. The forests are thick with rebels, invaders plunder our shores...
And damsels in besieged castles are waiting to be rescued?
I didn't know Leondegrance had a daughter.
Well, then, I shall tell you which knights have maiden daughters, so you can avoid their castles.
No, I think it's better if you just stay here to heal. At least a week.
I'm going.
Quiet, or I'll sew up your mouth too.
He must stay for the feasting days of our wedding, and tell his deeds himself.
I grant you your wish if you grant Lady Guenevere hers.
I will ride with Sir Kay. Lancelot, rest here.
Don't start a war on my wedding day!
Without Lancelot?!
Sir Gahalt, answer the Queen.
No. I meant not to be angry with you, Sir Gahalt. In the idleness that comes with peace gossip has bread its own evil. You merely repeat it. Please, sir, have one of those apples that Lancelot loves, and in that gesture partake of its goodness.
The Queen will be in my charge till a champion steps forward to fight on her behalf.
Not you, my husband?
Why can't you be my champion?
If I am your judge, I cannot be your champion. When I act as your King, I cannot be your husband.
And you cannot love me...
The laws, my laws, must bind everyone, high and low, or they are not laws at all. Lancelot will come...
And if he cannot be found, no other knight will champion me, though you beseeched each and every one of them. Why be king if there is no one you can call loyal subject but an eager boy?
I loved you much, as King, and sometimes as husband, but one cannot gaze too long at the sun in the sky.
Forgive me, my wife, if you can. I was not born to live a man's life, but to be the stuff of future memory. The fellowship was a brief beginning, a fair time that cannot be forgotten; and because it will not be forgotten, that fair time may come again. Now once more I must ride with my knights to defend what was, and the dream of what could be.
I have kept it.
I left it in the tent, sir.
Well hurry then, and get it.
Sir... Kay needed a sword. His was stolen. I saw Excalibur, and... I took it.
You freed it, son?
I did, Father. I beg your forgiveness.
Who is, then?
I don't know. Merlin brought you to me when you were newly born and charged me to raise you as my own. At first, I did so because I feared Merlin, later because I loved you.
He is the mightiest and fairest of knights.
We fought and won battles, and now one man defeats all my knights? I will go.
Father...
Rise, Mordred.
I have come to claim what is mine, Father.
I recognize you only as my son, no more.
And you are the great King? The lords have rebelled. Invaders attack the coasts. Crops don't grow. There is nothing but plague and hunger in the land. Only I am feared. I will be king. You may have lost Excalibur, but I have found my own weapon of power. There.
The very spear that pierced the side of Christ as he died on the cross.
Your mother told you that?
I cannot offer you the land, only my love...
And I offer only this, Father. To commit with passion and pleasure all the evils that you failed to commit, as man and king.
I will muster a great force of knights, and I will return to fight for what is mine.
So be it.
Who is Merlin?
Speak of the devil!...
Whose son am I?
You are the son of King Uther, and the fair Igrayne... you are King Arthur.
You saved me from the arrow...
But not from your destiny.
I want to thank you.
That's not why you came.
Merlin, help me. I need your help. I don't know how
'Help me, Help me.' Help me get up.
It is whispered in the forest that... ...Leondegrance's castle is under siege by Lot and Uryens.
Yes, yes, I know that. Everybody does. Lord Leondegrance is my only ally among the barons and the great knights. I can't lose him.
Well there. You don't need me half as much as you think you do. You already know what must not happen.
I must find the means to save him, then. I was hoping I could ask you for a little magic help, but if it makes you so tired...
Thank you.
It's just that I have no experience, and no men to speak of. How can I
Because you must! You and only you. Have you forgotten that it was you who freed Excalibur?
How? Where?
In the great book.
What book is that?
The book without pages. Open before you, all around us. You can see it in bits and pieces, for if mortal men were to see it whole and all complete in a single glance, why, it would burn him to cinders.
What?!
The dragon! There...
Then as knight to knight I can offer you mercy.
What's this, what's this?!
A king must marry, after all.
...of course...
I love her. If she would be my queen, my dreams would be answered.
There are maidens as fair, and fairer than Guenevere. If I put my mind to it, I could see them now, many of them, weeping for love of you, watching the hills for you coming from the high towers of their castles. Offering you their every favor. Rich, cleverbut if it is to be Guenevere, so be it.
Who will it be? Put your mind to it, then.
Guenevere. And a beloved friend who will betray you.
Guenevere...
You're not listening. Your heart is not. Love is deaf as well as blind.
I should have left you to fend for yourself.
I had to weave a little enchantment on the bees so I could get some honey, and I didn't feel up to using any more magic just yet. Anyway, I was in less danger than you'll be in today.
So you were stealing their honey. They should have killed you.
Come now. So much anger for such a little crime? Are you sure there is nothing else troubling you?
You know full well there is, and I go to meet it now. Come witness my revenge.
Excalibur! Is it true?
The Lady of the Lake. Take it. Take it, quickly!
The knights of Galys approach the camp. It would be politic...
...to ride out and meet them.
At your service, sir.
Then answer me this. For years peace has reigned in the land. Crops grow in abundance, there is no want. Every one of my subjects enjoys his portion of happiness and justice, even those whose tiresome misunderstandings we must resolve here each day. Tell me, Merlin: have we defeated evil, as it seems?
Good and evil; there is never one without the other.
Where hides evil, then, in my kingdom?
Never where you expect it, that's all I know.
Merlin, tell me. Now that Guenevere is returned to me...
What is it my child?
Yes.
Just yes? No mad laughter, no riddles, nothing but a simple yes? That frightens me.
A king should be afraid, always. The enemy is everywhere. Waiting in ambush in the dark corridors of his castle, on the deer paths of his forest, or in the gray and winding paths of a more tangled forest, in here.
What? The greatest? They blend together like the metals we mix to make a good sword.
I didn't ask for poetry. Which is it?
I am alone and betrayed. By my wife, by my beloved friend, by my knights. And by you. Perhaps most of all by you. For you made me, you forged this wretched life. And like a child tired of a toy, you toss me aside, a babbling lecher trotting after my sister...
That is my destiny. I have a destiny, too...
With all your powers, you are content to be ridiculed, laughed at...
My powers fade, Arthur. I resort to cheap tricks... Yes! I enjoy every moment of my foolishness, I join in the making of it, so no one can betray me. But you! You betray yourself.
Me? I have lived by the oath of king and knight.
You betray the boy who drew the sword, the boy who saw the Dragon... the Dragon who moves close by, coiling and uncoiling, restless, looking down, waiting for the King to be a king...
I must do it myself. I must kill them both. Lancelot and Guenevere. Will you ride with me, Merlin?
I cannot. I must not. Here I must stay.
Quiet. You'll wake the men, and they must fight tomorrow for their very lives.
I know. I have heard noises and echoes through the stones...
What is this place, Merlin?
It is like a tree. The roots of the stones spread out across the land and they draw on the thoughts and actions of men. Like sap those human matters course through the stones feeding the stars that are the leaves of the tree. And the stars whisper back to men the future course of events. But the earth is being torn apart, its metals stolen, and the balance is broken and the lines of power no longer converge. In fact, I nearly didn't make it in one piece.
But, I'm here.
Where have you been these many years? Is it true that Morgana
Stories... You brought me back. Your love brought me back. Back to where you are now, in the land of dreams...
Is this a dream? Tell me, Merlin!
At last...
Don't recognize him. You were trapped by Morgana's sorcery.
...Gawain and Perceval, Bors and Bohort, Caradoc and Ector, and all the otherslost to me. Only the echo of their voices remains in this empty hall. All I have left is the memory of their fellowship. Echoes and memories. I am a ghost of the King that once was... ...Mordred is real, alive, my own flesh and blood. I will see him, I must.
Perceval, you have returned!
Ready my knights for battle; they will ride with their King once more. I have lived through others far too long! Lancelot carried my honor and Guenevere my guilt. My knights have fought my causes. Mordred carries my sins. Now, at last, I will rule.
Merlin, will I live...? ...I was dreaming...
Of Merlin?
Yes. He spoke to me. He said I would fight bravely tomorrow. I have never dreamed of Merlin before.
I dreamed of him too... Merlin lives! He lives in our dreams now, in that dark and shadowy place that is as strong and real as this more solid one. He speaks to us from there.
He can be no other.
Lancelot?... It is Lancelot!
Good day to you, sir.
Move aside. This is the King's road, and the knights you joined arms against were his very own.
I await the King himself. His knights are in need of training.
I am King, and this is Excalibur, sword of kings from the dawn of time. Who are you, and why do you block the way?
I am Sir Lancelot of the Lake, from across the sea. I am the best knight in the whole of Christiandom, and I look for the king who is worthy of my sword's service.
That is a wild boast. You lack a knight's humility.
Not a boast, sir, but a curse. Never have I met my match in joust or duel.
Move aside!
I will not. You must retreat or prove your kingship in the test of arms, under the eyes of God.
Yield. I have the advantage.
I will not.
Fight me from your horse or on foot, but fight me. Your avoidance mocks me.
I sought only not to harm you, sir.
Sir, your rage has unbalanced you. It seems you would fight to the death against a knight who is not your enemy, for a length of road you can ride around.
So be it, to the death.
It is you, sir, who knows not the virtue of humility, as a true king must.
Thanks to God, you are alive.
I, the best knight in the world, bested! This is a great day, for my search is over. I love you, my King.
You are still the best knight in Christiandom. You gained a hundred advantages over me. It is I who must love you, for through your courage and patience you taught me a bitter lesson.
Then make me your champion and I will always fight in your place.
But your life and lands are far from here.
I gave up my castles and my lands!
My domain is here, inside this metal skin. And I would pledge to you all that I still own: muscle, bone, blood and the heart that pumps it.
And a great heart it is. Sir Lancelot, you will be my champion.
Lancelot, how did you fare in the North?
We spared the lives of a few, so they could sail home and tell their fellows what fate they met at the hands of King Arthur's knights...
These men repented before God for their evil deeds. Those who would not, met their fate at the end of my sword. Accept the fruit of my first quest as my wedding gift.
I do. Rise, Lancelot, come with me.
Your deeds set an example for all other knights. For your gift, ask a gift of me.
Only give me leave to ride out again, to do what I am most able to do, and happiest doing.
They miss the battlefield. I think we do too.
But one can still keep a sword sharp riding out in the name of the King's law.
Hasn't Merlin mended your wound?
It is deep...
Arthur.
Lancelot, I will save you... Don't die.
My salvation is to die a Knight of the Round Table.
You are that and much more. You are its greatest knight, you are what is best in men. Now we will be together
It is the old wound, that has been opened. I have always known it would be the gateway to my death, for it has never healed. Let my heart do its job, my King, and pump me empty...
Is he coming?
He heard Lady Guenevere's request and he said nothing. That is all.
In the name of God, of St. Michael, and St. George, I make you a knight. Rise, Sir...
...Perceval!
There is one thing left to do... Excalibur... And you must do it, Perceval. Leave my wounds, I command you.
I cannot
Take Excalibur. Find a pool of calm water and throw the sword into it.
When you threw it in, what did you see?
...I saw nothing.
My King, I couldn't do it. Excalibur cannot be lost. Other men
By itself it is only a piece of steel. Its power comes from he who wields it. For now there is no one. Do as I have ordered!
Hey, what's going down, Snake?
I'm looking for somebody.
Who ain't?
You owe me. You left me holdin' everything back there in Cleveland.
Hershe, you were in Cleveland?
Yeah. With me and Texas Mike O'Shay.
All of us?
Yeah.
The President's promised to give whoever helps me 1 million dollars.
Yeah? Greenbacks? I got ten million of them.
Uhuh. Bluebacks.
I can see you're real concerned about your daughter.
Utopia is lost to me. My daughter is gone.
Well, I'll think it over.
You're running out of time.
I've been doin' that all my life. Might as well do it in L.A. Everybody else there is.
Get ready, shitheads. We're comin' in.
Thank God.
Where's the antitoxin...?
Give me the prototype.
Hi, Snake. It's so great to meet you. My name's Taslima. I'm a fan of yours.
Are you crazy?
A little bit. But pretty soon I'm gonna be dead. So are you, Snake.
What are they?
They live here, used to be like us. But after too many silicon implants, their muscles turned to jelly. The only way they survive is to have body parts transplanted over and over again. Snake, nobody who comes into Beverly Hills gets out alive.
No screamin' shit.
Oh no, it's the Doctor.
Who?
The Surgeon General of Beverly Hills.
Don't follow me.
You need help.
Like hell I do.
This is a dead end. You took us into a dead end!
I just thought you wanted to get away. I didn't know you wanted to go someplace.
Be careful of the bald cats. They live in these buildings.
The what?
How do we get out of here?
Sewers. Come on.
Snake  what is it?
How the hell am I supposed to know? This is your damn city.
Why don't you get out of L.A.? Take a boat to China, take an airplane to Brazil? Earthquakes, death, shit. Why do you stay?
I don't know. Somehow, I just can't leave.
I changed my mind. I'm going with you, wherever you're going.
What the hell is this?
The freeway.
I know that. There are people in some of these cars.
It's where they live. I guess after everything happened, they just needed to do what they'd always done before. During the daytime, they just pull down the shades on their windows and sleep.
What are you gonna do in Venice?
Find Cuervo Jones.
No! Stay away, Snake. He's mucho muerte.
Run, Snake...They're coming.
Who?
Kind of a bad neighborhood, Snake.
Which way to the Hollywood Bowl?
Down that way.
Could be a big one comin' any minute now...
Where's... Cuervo Jones...?
Long gone. You'll never catch up with him now, Snake.
Where?
Anaheim. Headquarters for everything. The whole town's gonna be there. Things changin' fast around here, Snake. It's not the same as the old days, man.
You ain't doin' so good, Snake. You need help. You should talk to Hershe. She hates Cuervo. They used to be partners, but they split up.
Who?
Hershe. She lives downtown with Mojo Dellasandro in the big boat. Down that way.
What're you doing in here?
Looking to get out.
Good. I want you out. This is my sewer.
Which way?
Say, you need anything, Snake? Guns? Explosives? I can get you a crate of hellfire grenades, no problem  five hours.
Yeah. So how do I get to Venice?
All the sewers are collapsed under Venice. You have to go topside. Right up there.
You're a star in your own right, you know that? Hey, I'm Map To The Stars Eddie. How you doin'?
Where'd they go?
Man, I'd love to have your autograph, Snake.
Where are they?
Who? You mean Cuervo Jones? He's the man with the juice, Snake. Got the President's daughter. Setting up a citywide truce. Big doings.
Location.
Cuervo's got a place near Venice, where the big birds fly. Nice digs, too. I've been there, y'know.
Too many people know where you're going, Snake. That's not good. Delgado and his men were back there waiting for you.
Delgado?
Cuervo Jones' righthand man. One tough hombre. You don't understand, Snake. Cuervo Jones wants to unify the island. We're on the move, man. Big time.
Stop the damn car.
No way.
I said pull over.
All right. Anything for you, Snake. Although I was going to take you to Cuervo Jones' place.
Where is it?
Right over there.
Where are they going?
Oh, man... You didn't have to hit me, Snake. I can help you.
Not yet.
I could've helped you. We coulda made a deal with Cuervo. If you'd listen...
Listen up. I need directions. Downtown. Somebody named Hershe.
Sure, Snake. No problem. You gonna kill me?
Later.
I couldn't help it, Snake. I had to shoot you. Cuervo made me do it, I swear to God, man.
Cease fire with the bullshit.
Right. Keep goin' straight. Two blocks down, turn right.
How do you know all this?
I used to represent the guy who invented it. I swear to God, Snake. No bullshit.
Me too?
We'll see.
Aw, come on, Snake.
Bluebacks. I'm not bullshittin'. I swear to God.
I don't know about this thing.
Don't like it, don't come.
I got an idea, Snake. This looks like the prototype, right?
Yeah, kinda.
So maybe we can pull off a Texas switch on Cuervo.
If he lets you get close enough.
Is that what I think it is?
Yeah. The place kept changing owners. Finally went bankrupt. That thing in Paris killed 'em.
It's the President, for Christ's sake!
I give you my word. Put the prototype into my hands, and you're a free man.
Getting ready to invade.
So where's Plissken?
The prototype appears to be armed, Mr. President. Shall I begin evacuation?
Does he know how to activate it?
Well, yeah. All you have to do is push the button.
Relax, war hero. We took you for a ride, and you came through. Not bad for a dirtbag like you.
You're free, Plissken. But if you even so much as break wind on a country road I'll crush you like a bug.
How you doin' Plissken? You like the watch?
You assholes didn't bring me here to give me this for 20 years of dedicated service. What'ya want?
Shut up, Plissken.
What's the little black box do?
Top secret. Only on a need to know.
And I don't need to know. So fuck you, I'm goin' to Hollywood.
That's right, big shot. Unless you do what we want you're not coming back.
So what's the deal, huh? Go into L.A., find the President's daughter, secure the box, and bring 'em both out  and I'm free?
That's the deal.
Tell the President to adopt. I think I'll like L.A.
Wait a minute, what are you talkin' about?
Having second thoughts?
Maybe. But you're not putting any shit in me this time.
You don't understand. It's already in you.
Get this crap out of me.
I guess we have a deal. Nice to be working with you, Plissken.
Call me Snake.
I'll need to know more about this thing.
Only a handful of people are aware of its existence. Let's just say it's the ultimate defensive weapon.
Defense against what?
There's a war about to be declared, or didn't you know?
Third World wants to live like we do  and they plan on taking what they want. The Cubans and Brazilians are ready to invade Miami. If the Africans and Colombians make a run at the border, we got a full scale attack on the United States.
So what does this thing do?
All you need to know is get it back here by 5 a.m.
Where do I put ashore?
Cahuenga Pass. Make your way up through the mountains toward the Hollywood Bowl. You should be able to pick up Utopia's tracer there. Once you go inside, you're on your own. You know what you have to do with the girl, don't you? We have to spare this nation her trial  for treason.
So you want me to take her out? Is that an order from the President?
Let's just say it's what's best for the country.
By the way  who gives me the antitoxin?
A medical team will be standing by.
Not you?
No.
Good.
She's in the green.
Lock fuel rods.
Locked.
Nuclear turbine to 75% power.
75% power.
Hands on switches and counting. 5...4...3...2...1. Launch.
Plissken...?
I'm here.
Where's the submarine? It's disappeared off our screens.
It's history. I gotta go.
Plissken  this is Malloy. Do you have the prototype?
Yeah, I got it.
Got a smoke?
You're gonna have to learn to respect the law, Snake. The United States is a no smoking nation. No smoking, no drinking, do drugs, no women unless you're married, no guns, no foul language. It's a brand new day for you, Snake.
The name's Plissken.
I need a favor.
What's in it for me?
Wait a minute. I know that voice. You're Carjack Malone.
Not anymore.
I was called away on urgent business, Snake.
Don't lie to me.
All right, so I made another deal.
I got a new deal for you.
I'm already dead.
I see your point. What's the favor?
Get me to Cuervo Jones. Get me to the Kingdom. I got one hour.
Dream on, blue eye.
Say goodnight, Carjack.
So what's the deal, gorgeous?
We get the girl and the prototype. And we get out.
I don't know, sounds thin to me.
You want to stay here, while Cuervo Jones rules the world?
No, that sucks. How are we getting out?
I don't know yet.
See you in hell, Snake.
If I'm late, Carjack, don't start without me.
She's overloaded! We're too heavy.
Somebody get off!
I think we've burned off enough fuel. We may be lighter enough to hover. Just barely.
Can you land?
No. The right skid's broken. If I try to set it down she'll crash. I have to stay in a hoverwhile you jump off. Hey, Carjack. We gotta hide the girl. Give her your dress.
My name is no longer Carjack. Will you please get that through your fucking head?
I wouldn't be doin' that, Snake.
We have a little arrangement. Anything happens to me, you're dead.
Wait a minute. All right. Hold on.
Cuervo Jones has more firepower than two armies. No one gets near him.
Why should we leave? I love L.A. Where we gonna go? What's the payoff?
I'd like to get out but I don't have enough money.
Shit.
You always were a loser, Plissken. Makin' things up as you go along. That's why I cut out on you in Cleveland. You're just a bum like the rest of us.
Where'd you get these rigs, Carjack?
My name is Hershe Hernandez, do you understand, cowboy?
Come on, Cuervo. I delivered him, didn't I? All I'm asking for is what you promised.
We'll see.
Where is he?
He jumped. Down there. He's dead, Cuervo. I did it. I killed Plissken.
Give it to me.
You said I could be VicePresident, Cuervo. Your righthand man.
Give it.
Sure, Cuervo, but look here. I've done it all, man. I killed Plissken, I got your girl back, I got it all. Just for you, Cuervo. Just for you.
You're about to get hit, Cuervo. It's Plissken.
You told me he was dead.
I thought he was, but he came back.
Where?
Oh Cuervo...
What?
It's so good to see you again.
Where's Plissken?
He's... near.
You're stalling, Eddie. Talk, you little gringo!
Cuervo, look out behind you!
Who's that?
You never heard of Snake Plissken?
He doesn't look like his picture. I bet he's fake.
Now go get dressed. We have things to do.
Are we going to eat soon? I'm starved.
Ooww!
Go on now. Do as I say.
Cuervo...?
You're my woman, you understand? You don't let anybody take you away from me without a fight.
I tried...
Nobody leaves Cuervo Jones. Not unless you give your life. You fight till you're dead. Then I forgive you. Understand? Understand?
Yes...
ComStat did a psychosearch on him. Used a database of 5 million sociopathic personalities. He hit the bottom of the curve.
Perfect for the mission. Nobody else can pull it off  not an army, not a man.
Zero emotional developments. Total lack of compassion. A highly developed psychopathic instinct to survive.
Somehow during the tour, she came into possession of a prototype transmitting device. We don't know how.
Utopia became depressed after her mother's suicide, began to withdraw into her virtual reality simulator. She'd punch up her own little world in cyberspace and stay in it for days at a time. Somebody else was in there with her.
The cigarette girl in New Vegas was an undercover cop. She injected you with incentive toxin. Right now it's swimming in your bloodstream. It'll start to take effect in 9 hours.
It's a strain of the Plutoxin 7 virus. Genetically engineered. 100% pure death. Complete nervous system shutdown. You crash and bleed out like a stuck pig. Not a pretty sight.
L.A. is in a constant state of warfare. Gangs fighting for the right to rule.
Heavy Third World connections. They get weapons, drugs, fuel, choppers  everything is pumped into the island from the south.
Some areas have power  they're on line to San Onofre.
His reactor's starting to overheat.
Plissken, slow down the sub. You're overloading the power plant.
You were injected with glucose. There is no Plutoxin 7 virus. You were never going to die  at least not from anything we gave you.
C'mon, Snake  it's L.A. Everything's phony, you know that.
But he isn't us. He's your own kind.
He's a gorilla.
I mean he's of your race. He's an Ape. Look. You don't have to be afraid. We've put him in chains and under sedation. Do you understand that?
I should. I've been doing it half my life to Humans.
Humans?
I'm a psychiatrist.
Primitive?
I mean that in our 'primitive' civilization, apes just don't talk. I mean I think it's important that, when our 'primitive' security precautions are lifted, the first time you say something in public you should talk to what we 'primitively' call the Right People.
May I say something personal?
Please
I like you.
What, Lewis?
There was a sort of carpetbag in the ship.
With food?
No  clothes. Stevie, they changed into them.
I don't believe it.
What are they doing here?
Security. Join the Marines and see the Zoo ...
Go easy, Stevie.
They look pretty docile.
Yes, but don't take any chances.
We shall want a full autopsy ...
With particular emphasis on the cranial and oral areas.
Keep him in cold storage till the reports in. Then send him to Taxidermy. He's a museum piece.
In some fashion  and I lack the intellect to know precisely how  we have traveled from Earth's future into Earth's past.
But we saw Earth destroyed.
And Earth will be destroyed  just as we saw it. Only, since fleeing it, we have passed through a....backward disturbance in time  did you notice the Date Meter clicking down after the shock wave hit our ship?  and we have returned to Earth almost two thousand years before its destruction. That is another reason for keeping silence. Our human captors would not be edified to know that, one day, their world will crack like an egg and fry to a cinder, because of an Ape war of aggression.
Zira, are you mad?
Dr. Milo, please don't call my wife mad.
I did not call her mad. I merely asked her if she was. And I repeat the question. Are you mad?
To a lot of psychiatric small talk 
And we can watch ...
A display of primitive apparatus 
So am I. And I mean you no harm.
We know that.
Do you have a name?
My name is Cornelius. And this is Zira  my wife.
My name is Lewis  Lewis Dixon .
Nobody's going to believe it.
Believe what?
That primitive apes can talk.
Did you call the Zoo?
Yes, sir. We're in luck. The sick bay's almost empty except for a mauled fox cub, a deer with pneumonia, and a depressed gorilla. The Apes will be hidden from the public. They'll be quarantined. If they want medical attention, it's available on the spot. And the experts can start giving them the onceover first thing in the morning. General Brody's very pleased.
Me, too. Can't have a lot of monkeys making messes in the Guardhouse. Have we fed them? Like raw steak or something?
The Zoo tells me that chimpanzees, like all apes, are vegetarian, sir.
Good God.
They suggested oranges.
Excuse me. I didn't mean to disturb.... What am I saying?
They're...pretending to dress.
What d'you mean, pretending? They are dressing. Where'd they get those clothes?
The Hoth System?
Yes, Sir .... we have visuals ... the System is supposed to be devoid of human forms ...
Yes, My Lord.
Make ready to land General Veers' assault troops on the surface. Then deploy the fleet so that nothing can get off that system. You're in command now, Admiral Piett.
Seventeen ships destroyed, we don't know how many got away.
Anything on the Millennium Falcon?
It won't get through the blockade.
I want that ship.
The fear does not reach you. You have learned more than I anticipated.
You'll find I'm full of surprises.
And I too.
Your future lies with us, Skywalker. Now you will embrace the dark side. Obiwan knew this to be true.
No!
There is much Obiwan did not tell you. Come, The Emperor will complete your training.
I'll die first.
That won't be necessary.
All too easy. Perhaps you are not as strong as The Emperor thought.
Time will tell.
The Force runs strong in the Skywalker line. You will achieve great power ... Come, join with me! Together we will be the most powerful ... even stronger than The Emperor.
No! .... Never ....
There is no escape. You must join me or die. Don't make me destroy you here ... The Emperor is strong with The Force. But if you join me, together we could overthrow Him. Do not resist. It is our destiny!
Never.
Ready are you? What know you of ready? I have trained Jedi for 800 years. My own counsel I'll keep on who is to be trained.
Why not me?
To become a Jedi takes the deepest commitment, the most serious mind.
I have followed my feelings.
You are reckless!
I will not fail you. I'm not afraid.
You will be, my young one. Heh. You will be.
It would be in seven pieces, were you a Jedi.
I thought I was in good shape.
Yes, but by what standard, ask I? Forget your old measures. Unlearn, heh, unlearn.
Master, moving rocks is one thing, but this is a little different.
No! No different! The differences are in your mind. Throw them out! No longer of use are they to you.
Okay. I'll give it a try.
No. Try not. Do, do. Or do not. There is no try.
I can't. It's too big.
Size has no meaning. It matters not. Look at me. Judge me by my size do you?
I don't believe it.
That is why you fail.
Concentration. Heh? Concentration.
I thought those seekers were set for stun!
That they are.
They're a lot stronger than I'm used to.
That would matter not were The Force flowing through you. Higher you'd jump! Faster you'd move! Open yourself to The Force you must.
No, no. This will not do. Anger is what you feel.
But I feel The Force flowing!
Anger, fear, aggression! The dark side of The Force are they. Easily they flow ... quick to join you in a fight. Beware, beware, beware of them. A heavy price is paid for the power they bring.
Price? What do you mean?
The dark side beckons. But if once start down the dark path, forever will it dominate your destiny. Consume you it will ... as it did Obiwan's apprentice.
Lord Vader ... Is the dark side stronger?
No, no. Easier, quicker, more seductive.
But how am I to know the good side from the dark?
You will know. When you are at peace ... calm ... passive. A Jedi uses The Force for knowledge and defense. Never for attack.
But tell me why ...
No! Nothing more will I tell you now. Clear your mind of questions ... Quiet now be ... at peace ...
Four this time! The Force you feel.
Yes ... I also feel danger ... death. Something's not right.
I feel cold.
This tree is strong with the dark side of The Force. A servant of evil it is. Into it you must go.
What's in there?
Only what you take with you.
Ben? Ben?
Free your mind and return he will.
My mind fills with so many images.
Control, control you must learn of what you see. Not easy, not fast.
I see a city in the clouds.
Bespin. I see it too ... Friends you have there, heh? Concentrate and see them you will.
I see them! ... They're in pain ... they're suffering.
It is the future you see.
Will they die?
Difficult to see. Always in motion is the future ... Back away, little machine!
They're my friends.
Foreknowledge is helpful, but painful sometimes and dangerous too. You have far to go in your training.
Yes, yes. To Obiwan you listen young one. The tree. Remember your failure at the tree! Heh?
I've learned so much since then. And I'll return to finish ... I promise that, master.
And sacrifice Han and Leia?
If it must be. Yes.
The Bacta are growing well. The scars should be gone in a day or so. Does it still hurt?
I'm fine. Really. Leia ... when I was out there and it looked pretty bad ... well, it made me think about things.
Me too. I was afraid.
Leia ... What would you think if I went away for a while?
What did you say?!
Where are you going?
I have this ... feeling. I'm not sure, really ...
That's just great. Why doesn't everyone just take off?
What are you talking about?
First Han, now you. When am I going to learn not to count on anyone but myself? ...
Han's leaving?
Calm down, will ya? Tell me about Han.
He wants to pay off that criminal he's in hock to.
Jabba the Hutt?
I could get more loyalty if I went down the hall and recruited some of those snow creatures.
Snow creatures ... they're here?!
Leia!
Luke, no! It's a trap.
Lando, is he alright? ... Lando? Are you there? How's Luke?
He'll survive.
This hyperdrive had better work.
I've never seen it fail.
You rest now.
So much has happened during the period of your indisposition, sir.
I'll be back later.
You don't have to do this to impress me.
If I might remind you, sir, the probability of successfully navi gating through an asteroid field is approximately 365,000 to one ... a graceful surrender might not be ...
Closer?!
Closer?!
A tremor!
Sir, it's very possible this asteroid is not stable.
What??
Oh my, no!
Sir, we've lost the rear deflector shield. One more direct hit on the back quarter and we're done for.
Well, what now?
Rather touchy, aren't they.
I thought you knew this person.
Artoo, you did it! I never doubted you for a second ...
Let's go.
Nothing more can be done tonight. The shield doors must be closed. I can't wait any longer. I'm sorry.
I understand.
The speeders should be ready in the morning. They'll make the search easier.
Is there any chance of them surviving out there?
Slim, but yes, there's a chance. They have a shelter. It's not much, but ...
Have they analyzed the one that was killed?
Not yet. They're working on it now.
We've picked up something outside the base in zone one, moving East.
What is it?
Two transports at a time is awfully risky.
We have no choice. Send them up ... and start clearing everyone out.
Hello! What have we here? Welcome, I am Baron Lando Calrissian, Administrator of this facility ... and who might you be?
You may call me Leia.
Sorry, am I interrupting anything?
Not really.
I must say, your beauty is unpar alleled. Truly you belong here with us among the clouds.
Thanks.
Would you care to join me for a little refreshment?
.... We are a free station and do not fall under the jurisdiction of the Empire.
You're part of the mining guild then?
Not actually .... Our operation is small enough not to be noticed, so you might say we're enterprisers. Most of our trade is, well ... unofficial.
It's a lovely outpost.
Yes, we keep pollution down by having the power reactor far below the city. It's connected by a transfer shaft.
What about Han?
I didn't know you had a price on your head. Vader has given you to the bounty hunter.
Lord Vader has set a trap for him and ...
... we're the bait.
What's going on?
I'm coming over to your side, that's what. And I have a feeling I'm making a big mistake.
And when do you betray us again?
Look, I stand to lose everything by this.
We have no use for your kind.
This is no time to be choosy, honey. What do you say we debate this later? There's still a chance I can get you out of here.
Chewie's right. We must try to save Han.
There's not much chance, but the bounty hunter's ship is on the East Landing Platform.
Very noble. Not smart, but noble.
You've probably never done an honorable thing in your life.
Sure I did ... once. It turned out lousy.
What chance have we got in here? What are we going to do when they cut ...
You'd better know what you're doing, or this is going to get very messy.
Don't worry about a thing. I'll get us going.
We've got to find Luke.
His fate is sealed. You'll be lucky to get out yourself. All systems are on alert. everything's locked.
What'd you say?
I didn't say anything?
I knew that setup was too good to last .... I'm going to miss it.
Luke!
What?
Luke needs help. We must go back.
No argument, just do it. That's a command!
Wait a minute. We're not going back there.
Someone's falling.
It's Luke. Get under him. Slow down. Easy Chewie. Line up your tracking system. Lando, open the hatch.
The deflector shields are gone.
Are the coordinates set?
I'm sure my men fixed it. We've got nothing to worry about.
That sounds familiar.
What about Leia and the Wookiee?
You will find them well enough. But they must never again leave this city.
That was never mentioned. Neither was this bounty hunter taking Han. I hope you haven't forgotten our bargain.
I forget nothing, Calrissian. Perhaps you think you're being treated unfairly.
No.
Good. It would be most unfortunate if I had to leave a permanent garrison here.
We only use this chamber for carbon freezing. If you put him in there, it'll kill him.
I think not. But I don't wish my prize to be damaged. We'll test it first. Bring in Captain Solo.
I'll take what's mine now.
Take them, but I'm keeping a detachment of troops here to watch over them.
That wasn't the bargain. You said the Empire wouldn't interfere in
I'm altering the bargain. Pray I don't alter it any further.
Why you slimy, doublecrossing nogood swindler ... am I glad to see you.
No hard feelings?
Are you kidding?
I always said you were a gentleman.
I'll bet.
That won't be easy, my friend ... What brings you here, anyway?
Repairs ...
What have you done to my ship?
That ship saved my life a few times. It's the fastest hunk of machinery in the galaxy. What's wrong with her?
Hyperdrive.
I'll have my people get to work on it right away. Hate the thought of the Millennium Falcon without her heart.
How's your mining operation going?
Not as well as I'd like. We're a small outpost and not very self sufficient. I've had supply problems of every kind and ... What's so funny?
Nothing. I never would have guessed that underneath that wild schemer I knew was a respon sible leader and businessman ... But you wear it well.
Sorry friend, I had no choice. They arrived right before you did.
I'm sorry too.
Get out of here, Lando!
Shut up a minute and listen. I'm doing what I can to make this easier for you.
This ought to be good.
Vader agreed to turn Leia and Chewie over to me. They'll have to stay here, but at least they'll be safe.
You don't know much about much if you think Vader won't want us dead before this is over.
He doesn't want you at all. He's after someone named Skywalker.
Luke? I don't get it.
All this just to get the kid? What's so important about him?
Don't ask me, but he's on his way.
Don't shoot! I've done what I can for you. I'm sorry it's not better, but I've got my own problems. I've already stuck my neck out further than I should ...
Yeah, you're a real hero.
Loud and clear, kid. What's up?
I've finished my circle and I haven't picked up any life read ings.
There isn't enough life on this ice cube to fill a space cruiser. My sentry markers are placed. I'm heading back to the base.
I'll see you shortly. A meteorite just hit the ground near here and I want to check it out .. Won't be long.
Hi kid, you look strong enough to wrestle a Gundark.
Thanks to you.
That's two you owe me, junior.
Probe? What probe?
That makes a good story. But I think you just can't bear to let me out of your sight.
About what?
Now don't get the wrong idea, pal. She was just trying to express her true feelings for me.
I hope you make your peace with Jabba.
Don't worry. You haven't seen the last of us.
Yes, Your Highness?
You said you were going to stay. What happened?
That bounty hunter we ran into on Ord Mantell changed my mind.
Does Luke know?
He'll know when he gets back ... Don't give me that look. Every day more bounty hunters are searching for me. If I don't pay off Jabba soon, there'll be too many to stop ... Remotes, Gank killers, and who knows what else. I've got to get that price off my head while I still have a head.
Han, we need you here.
We?
Yes.
Not you?
Me? I don't know what you mean.
You probably don't. How could you? You're so terrified of your own emotions ...
And what are they, pray tell?
You want me to stay because of the way you feel about me.
I respect you. You're a bold fighter, maybe not the brightest, but ... HAN No, your worship.. That's not what I'm talking about.
Am I? I say you came running after me because you were afraid I was leaving you without even a kiss.
I'd just as soon kiss a wookiee.
There's no accounting for taste. Believe me, you could use a good kiss. You've spent so much time doing your duty and giving orders you've never learned how to be a woman. It's a shame, because you've got all the makings for one. I could have helped you plenty in that department ... if you'd have let go for a minute. But it's too late now, sweetheart. Your big opportunity is flying out of here.
We are fighting for a cause much ...
Spare me please! Don't tell me about the Rebellion again. I've had it with your noble mission. All you let yourself think about is the Rebellion. The result is you're as cold as this planet.
And you think you're the one to apply some heat?
Sure ... If I were interested. But I don't think it'd be much fun.
Those creatures he keeps talking about ... we'd better double the security ... Han, I don't know how ...
Forget it.
Now all we've got to worry about is what attacked him.
No kidding. If this snowball's got nasty natives, they could be anywhere.
.... I'm afraid there's not much left.
What was it?
Droid of some kind. I didn't hit it that hard. It must have had a selfdestruct ....
An Imperial probe droid.
Now don't panic. We don't know that.
Well, your worship, it looks like you arranged to keep me close by for a while longer.
I had nothing to do with it. General Rieekan thinks it's dangerous for any ships to leave the system until we know where that probe came from.
I don't know what he's talking about.
Ooops! I guess you haven't told Luke about that yet.
You must have gone completely out of your feeble mind.
Come on, your highness, are you telling me you haven't been thinking about that kiss?
Why you lowdown, stuckup, half witted, scruffylooking nerfherder.
Who's scruffylooking? I tell ya' sweetheart, I must've hit pretty close to the mark to get you hoppin' like this. Doesn't it look that way to you, Luke?
Hey! Someone's still in here.
Wait, don't open it ... that's one of the traps for the ice creatures.
Would it help if I got out and pushed?
Don't worry, your holiness, I'll get her started.
This bucket of bolts is never going to get us past that blockade.
This baby's got a few surprises left in her.
I'll be surprised if we ever start moving.
I know, I know, I see them ... LEIA See what?
Two more Star Destroyers heading right at us.
I'm glad you said there was going to be no problem, or I'd be worried.
That was no laser blast .... some thing hit us ....
Or you ran into something ....
Asteroids! Chewie, bank left, let's find out where they're coming from ...
Probably an asteroid field ....
Let's hope so ... it's just the chance we need.
To get killed ... you're not seriously going into an asteroid field?
Aren't I? Hang on, sweetheart. We're gonna do some flyin'.
Well, you said you wanted to be there when I was wrong.
I take it back.
That Star Destroyer is slowing down.
Good.
But we're going to get pulverized if we stay out here much longer.
I'm against that.
We've got to get out of this shower.
Now you're making sense.
Right. I'm going to get in closer to one of these big ones ...
There, there. Chewie get a reading on that. Looks pretty good.
What is it?
That should do nicely.
Why, Princess, this is so sudden.
Very funny. You can let go now .... I'm getting angry.
You don't look angry.
How do I look?
Beautiful.
Sorry, Captain, being held by you isn't enough to get me excited.
Well, I hope you don't expect more.
I don't expect anything, except to be left alone.
Fine with me. But I'm afraid you'll have to let go.
That was no earthquake.
Felt like a hydro concussion ... an Imperial Cruiser.
They're moving away.
They're just trying to see if they can stir something up ... we're safe.
Where have I heard that before?
Easy, your worship. Only trying to help.
Would you please stop calling me that?
Sure. I guess I make it difficult sometimes.
Yes, you do.
You could be a touch warmer, though. Admit it, against your better judgment you think I'm all right.
Sometimes, maybe ... occasionally, when you aren't acting like a scoundrel.
That's quite a compliment.
Stop that.
Why?
What are you afraid of?
Afraid of? Certainly not you Captain Solo ... or any other man in this galaxy.
Don't count on it. I happen to like nice men.
Sure, they're safer. You always know what they're going to do. Trouble is, it gets a little dull.
There's nothing dull about a man I can depend on to be civilized.
You mean a man you can control.
I do not!
Try and control this ...
There's something out there!
Where?
Outside, in the cave.
Are you crazy!
Look, we just got this bucket going again. I'm not about to let some varmint tear it apart ...
Looks like some kind of Mynock.
There will be more of them. They always travel in groups. And there's nothing they like better than to attach themselves to ships. Just what we need right now.
Those Star Destroyers will spot us long before you can get into light speed. You can't make the jump in this asteroid field.
Strap yourself in, sweetheart, we're taking off!
But the tremors have stopped.
I see it Chewie, hang on.
The entrance is collapsing!
Couldn't be, I checked the transfer circuits, just like you said! I tell you this time it's not my fault. I'm sure I checked it.
No lightspeed?
It's not my fault. I can't under stand it!
Sharp bank, Chewie. Let's turn this bucket around. You heard me, turn around! Full power on the front shield.
You're going to attack them?!!!
You could have warned him before you shut him off.
Oh, so sorry! Didn't mean to offend your droid. You think braking and shutting down in that amount of time is easy?
I'm still not sure what you've accomplished.
Chewie, check the manual release on the landing claws.
What'd you have in mind for your next move?
The fleet is finally breaking up. I'm hoping they'll follow standard Imperial procedure and dump their garbage before they go into light speed.
Not bad, hot shot, not bad. Then what?
Then we have to find a safe port around here. Got any ideas?
That depends. Where are we?
Here ... near the Anoat system.
Funny, I have the feeling I've been in this area before. Let me check my logs.
You keep logs? My, how organized.
Well, sometimes ... Ahhah, I knew it! Lando Calrissian.
Never heard of that system.
Lando's not a system, he's a man. A gambler, conartist ... all around scoundrel ... ... your kind of guy. The system is called Bespin. It's a ways from here, but reachable.
A mining colony.
A Tibanna gas mine. Lando won it in a sabacc match, or so he claims. Lando and I go way back.
Can you trust him?
No. But he has no love for the Empire, that much I know ...
You do have your moments ... Not many, but you do have them.
Let er go, Chewie.
I don't like this.
It'll be all right. Trust me. And keep your eyes open. You wait here.
What are you staring at?
Who's staring?
You look silly.
You look great.
Has Threepio turned up yet?
Huh? Oh. Your droid's been gone too long just to be lost. He may have gotten into some trouble. Chewie went to look for him. Come over here. I want to check this out.
I hope Luke made it to the fleet all right.
Luke! I'm sure he's fine. Probably sitting around wondering what we're doing right now.
He found him in a junk pile ...
Something's wrong here. Your friend Lando is very charming, but I don't trust him.
Well, I do trust him. Lando's an old friend. Must have been an accident.
Chewie, do you think you can repair him?
No thanks.
Look, sweetheart, I'm not going to have you accusing my friend of ...
I was worried about you.
I'm worried about all of us. I can't figure out what they're up to.
Me either. They had me howling on the scan grid, but they never asked me any questions.
... I love you. I couldn't tell you before, but it's true.
... just remember that, cause I'll be back ...
Captain Solo, sir. Might I have a word with you?
What is it?
Mistress Leia has been trying to reach you on the communicator, but either you have it turned off, or it is malfunctioning ... if it's damaged, Artoo, could fix it, if you like.
I shut it off. What's her royal holiness want?
She is looking for Master Luke, and assumed he would be here with you. No one seems to know ...
I don't know, Artoo. Sir, might I inquire what's going on?
Go tell your precious Princess ... Luke is dead unless he shows up soon.
He doesn't make sense to me either, Chewie.
I do hope he's all there ... if you take my meaning. I would hate to see Master Luke develop a short circuit ...
The kid ran into something mean, and it wasn't the cold.
Transport XJ. get out of here. Go!
The energy shield is down. We'll be stuck here forever.
Sir, I was wondering ...
Sit down, and shut up!
It can wait.
I think we're in trouble.
If I may say so, Sir, I noticed earlier that the entire main para light system seems to be damaged.
We're in trouble!
What are you so grouchy about?
Sir, I'm almost afraid to ask, but does shutting down all but emergency power systems include me?
You, too, golden rod.
I must admit there are times I don't understand human behavior.
It sounds like it's trying to get in.
I'm going to see what it is.
We're doomed. Goodbye, Mistress Leia. Goodbye, Captain ...
Not collapsing, honey. It's closing! This is no cave ...
I can see the edge of the asteroid field, sir.
Good. Soon as we're clear, we'll kick this baby into hyperdrive.
Captain Solo. What's the situation?
There isn't a hint of life in the area. But all the perimeter markers are set, so you'll know if anyone comes calling.
Good, and Commander Skywalker?
He's checking out a meteorite that hit near him. He'll be in soon.
With all the meteor activity in this system, it's going to be difficult to spot approaching ships.
The Empire won't look for you out here. I'd say you're all set ... which means it's time for me to get going.
That's right.
You're an extraordinary fighter. I hate to lose you.
Thank you, General. But there's a price on my head. If I don't pay off Jabba the Hutt, I'm a walking dead man.
I understand. A death mark is not an easy thing to live with ... Until our paths cross again, may the force be with you.
Whatever it is, it isn't friendly. I'm going to have a look. Come on, Chewie.
Wait. I'll send a patrol with you.
Fine. But they'll have to take care of themselves.
What is thy bidding, My Master?
There is a grave disturbance in The Force.
I have felt it.
Our situation is most precarious. We have a new enemy who could bring about our destruction.
Our destruction? Who?
The son of Skywalker. You must destroy him ... or he will be our undoing.
He's not a Jedi, he's just a boy. Obiwan could not have taught him so much that ...
You are weak! I have seen it. The Force is strong with him. He must be destroyed.
But, if he could be turned, he would be a powerful ally.
Yes ... yes. That would be a great asset.
He will join us or die, My Master.
Yes sir!
Sergeant, is Commander Skywalker back yet?
I haven't seen him. He probably came in through the south entrance.
Probably isn't good enough, Sergeant. Check on it!
Commander Skywalker hasn't come through the south entrance, sir. Maybe he slipped by without checking in.
Not likely! Where are the speeders?
We haven't got them adapted to this cold yet ...
We'll have to go out on Tauntauns.
The temperature is dropping too fast.
You bet it is ... and Luke's out in it.
The night storms will start before you can reach the first marker.
Then I'll see you in Hell.
... Like we're being watched.
Away put your weapon. I mean you no harm.
I'm looking for someone.
Looking? Looking? You've found someone I'd say. Heh? Yes!
Yeah ...
Help you I can ... yes ... yes.
I'm looking for a great warrior.
A great warrior? Not many on those. Wars don't make one great.
Listen, friend, we didn't mean to land here, and if I could get my fighter out of this puddle I would, but I can't. So ...
Can't get your ship out? Have you tried? Have you tried?
Give me that!
Mine! Mine! Or I'll help you not.
I don't want your help. I want my lamp back. I'll need it in this slimy mudhole.
Mudhole? Slimy? My home this is.
Mine, mine.
Okay, Artoo, let him have it. Now get out of here, little fellow, we've got things to do.
No, no! I'll stay and help you find your friend.
I'm not looking for a friend. I'm looking for a Jedi Master.
Oh, a Jedi Master. Different altogether. Yoda you seek, Yoda.
You know the Jedi Master?
Of course, yes. But now eat we must. Good food, I have good food. Come, come.
... I told you, I'm not hungry.
Patience. It's time to eat.
Look, it smells good. I'm sure it's delicious But I don't know why we can't see Yoda now.
It's the Jedi's time to eat, too.
Will it take long to get there? How far away is he?
Not far, not far. Be patient. Soon you will see him. Why wish you become a Jedi?
Because of my father, I guess.
Oh, your father ... a powerful Jedi was he, powerful Jedi.
How could you know my father? You don't even know who I am. Can't we get on with this already?
Barks at his master.
What happened?
We should have stayed and finished them off.
Barks his agreement.
I don't care. It would've been worth it .... for Han.
Barks his right on!
... the power?
Howls.
Barks his consternation.
Chewie, head for the bottom of the city.
Okay, Chewie, it's now or never.
Barks his agreement.
Well, it's been awhile.
Barks and growls at his boss.
That was a long time ago. I'm sure he's forgotten all about it, and so should you.
Howls and shrugs his shoulders.
Why don't we just turn him over to Lando to fix?
Barks at Han.
Not now, Chewie. Lando, aren't you afraid the Empire might discover this little operation and shut you down?
Barks his concern.
No, I'm alright. I'm alright.
Barks a doleful farewell.
I'm sure I'll see you again, too. Keep well. You'd better chain him until it's over.
How you doing, Chewbacca? Still wasting your time with this clown, eh?
Growls a reserved greeting.
Right.
Barks at the mention of food. Licks his lips.
Everyone's invited, of course.
Barks a blue streak.
What's wrong with him?
Three patrol ships are heading our way.
Barks an argument and shakes his head.
Turns on Lando, the newcomer, with an ominous growl.
Okay, okay.
Howls.
We're not out of this yet.
I can't ...
You must. Luke, look at me!
You must survive, Luke.
I'm cold ... so cold ...
You must go to the Dagobah System ... There you will learn from one who taught me: Yoda, the Jedi Master.
Ben ... Ben ...
Luke ... you are the only hope.
... Luke, you must not go.
But Han and Leia will surely die.
You don't know that. Even I cannot see their fate.
I can help them!
You're not ready yet. You still have much to learn.
I feel The Force.
But you cannot control it. This is a dangerous time for you, Luke. You are now most susceptible to the temptations of the dark side.
Will you? You underestimate The Emperor. It is you he wants ... that is why your friends suffer.
And that is why I must go.
Luke, I will not lose you to the Emperor, as I lost Vader.
You won't.
Only a fully trained Jedi Knight, with The Force as his ally, will conquer Vader and his Emperor. If you end your training now, if you choose the quick and easy path ... as Vader did ... you will become an agent of evil ... and the galaxy will be plunged deeper into the abyss of hate, despair and pain that you feel your friends suffering now.
He will learn patience.
Much anger in him, like in his father.
We've discussed this before.
He can do it.
This one I have watched a long time. All his life has he looked away ... to the horizon, to the sky, to the future. Never his mind on where he was, on what he was doing. Adventure, excitement ... A Jedi craves not these things!
He'll learn.
He's too old. Yes. Too old to start the training.
Will he finish what he begins?
We've come this far ... He is our only hope.
Stopped they must be. Do you hear? On this all depends.
You are the last Jedi, Luke. You are our only hope. Be patient.
Luke, use The Force only for knowledge and for defense, not as a weapon. Don't give in to hate or anger or fear ... they lead the way to the dark side ... Luke nods and climbs back into his ship.
Strong is Vader. Clouded is your fate. Mind what you have learned ... Notice everything, everything! It can save you.
Told you, I did. Reckless is he ... Now things are going to worse.
The boy is our last hope.
No ... there is another.
My lord.
Come in, Admiral.
Our pursuit ships have sighted the Millennium Falcon, My Lord. It has entered an asteroid field.
Asteroids don't concern me, Admiral. I want that ship, not excuses. How long until you can have Skywalker and the others in the Millennium Falcon before me?
Soon, Lord Vader.
Yes, Admiral .... soon.
Lord Vader, our ships have completed their scan of the area and found nothing. The Millennium Falcon definitely went into lightspeed. It's probably on the other side of the galaxy by now.
Alert all commands. Calculate every possible destination along their last known trajectory and disburse the fleet to search for them. Don't fail me again, Admiral, I've had quite enough!
Yes, My Lord. We'll find them.
It was .... the Emperor ....
The Emperor?
Yes, he commands you make contact with him ....
Move this ship out of the asteroid field and into a position where we can send a clear transmission.
Yes, My Lord.
And code the signal to my private chamber.
Dr. Paulsen?
Yes?
Hi, I'm Erin Brockovich. I was just over in the library there, asking a mess of questions about  I guess they call it epidemiology?  and the fella there told me to find you, cause you know all about it.
Is this a joke? Did Baxter put you up to this?
Who's Baxter?
He did, didn't he? <u>Baxter</u>!
Oh. Oh.
No one put me up to anything. I was just hoping I could ask you a couple questions.
Of course! Oh, gosh, of course 
Well, look, there isn't a ton of information here, but from what there is, I'd say that these two people here  what are their names? Shanna and Ashley?
Right, I guess those are the kids 
They've both got some immune system problem. Can't say what from, whether it's viral or genetic or what, but something's wrong. And these guys  Donna and Peter 
Their parents, I'm pretty sure.
Well, from what this stuff says, I'd say they both have some form of cancer.
... and when I realized our area's just as bad as Hinkley, I thought maybe my neighbors are all sick too. So I went and asked.
You did?
Uhhuh. Spent the last few days knocking on doors. And you know what? They're not. I mean, they got problems, but none of this cancer stuff. And their pets are fine. So I don't know  I just can't shake the feeling that it wasn't no multivitamin they put in the water.
Well, if you're talking about contamination, you're getting out of my area of expertise. Let me give you the name of a toxicologist friend of mine over at USC.
I gotta say, Erin  first time I saw you, I did not peg you as the kind to go off and conduct her own epidemiological study.
Don't go telling anyone. It'll ruin my reputation.
Hi, sweetie. Were you a good girl? Where are Matt and Katie?
Outside with the sprinkler. So it's good?
It'll be fine, yeah.
Ai, bueno. Because I didn't want to tell you before, with your worries 
What?
My daughter, she's bought a big house with a room for me. I'm going to move in with her.
You're moving away? When?
Next week.
Wow, that's soon 
I know. But it's good for me. Now I can help my daughter take care of my grandkids. And it's good for you, too. Now you have money, you can find a good babysitter, huh? Not the old lady next door.
Excuse me, are you Erin Brockovich?
Yeah. Who are you?
When Donna told us about you, and what you told her about the chromium, we figured that might have something to do with this, too.
It sure could, yeah. Thanks a lot.
There's something else, too.
What?
I know. It's an awful lot.
I'm surprised Donna didn't say anything.
You know that thing it says in here about rashes?
Uhhuh?
Well, this old neighbor of mine, Bob Linwood  he ran the dairy on Community  seemed like someone in his family always had a rash somewhere or other. I just figured it was something in the genes. And you know how it is  you don't like to ask about things like that ...
I mean, it's not a problem or anything, but  I'm just a little unclear on what those things are. I thought maybe you'd know.
What do I look like, Erin? A library?
Someone stole my stuff.
Nice to see you, Erin. We've missed you.
I had photos of my kids, plus a mug 
 toothbrush, toothpaste, and a pair of hose. Here.
What's going on?
There may be jobs where you can disappear for days at a time, but this isn't one of them. Here, if you don't do the work, you don't get to stay.
What am I supposed to do, check in every two seconds?
Yes. It's called accountability.
I am not talking to you, bitch.
<u>Excuse me</u>?
Where's my paycheck?
Have you been logging on?
What?
I moved payroll onto the computer. It only knows to process paychecks for employees who log on in the morning and off at night.
Now how'm I supposed to do that when I'm not in here most mornings and nights?
You're clever. I'm sure you'll think of something.
I'm embarrassed.
That's okay. I understand.
It's just  the pain. It's only getting worse. I can't be a good wife. I can't be a good mother.
I'm real sorry, Laura.
Know what I always thought I wanted outta life, Erin? A Jaguar.
Jaguar's a darn pretty car.
I thought if I could spend that kinda money on a car, it'd mean everything else was fine. I don't even know how much they cost.
A lot. But you hang in there, maybe you'll get one.
Well, hello to you, darlin'.
What the hell do you think you're doing, making all that Goddamn noise?
Just introducing myself to the neighbors.
Well, I'm the neighbors. There, now we're introduced, so you can shut the fuck up.
Ooh, now, see, if I'da known there was a beautiful woman next door, I'da done this different. Let's start over. My name's George. What's yours?
Just think of me as the person next door who likes it quiet, and we'll get along fine.
Now, don't be like that. Tell you what. How about if I take you out on a date to apologize for my rudeness?
You want my number?
I do.
Which number do you want, George?
You got more than one?
Shit, yeah. I got numbers coming out of my ears. Like, for instance, ten.
Ten?
Sure. That's one of my numbers. It's how many months old my little girl is.
You got a little girl?
Yeah. Sexy, huh? And here's another: five. That's how old my other daughter is. Seven is my son's age. Two is how many times I been married and divorced. You getting all this? 16 is the number of dollars in my bank account. 4543943 is my phone number. And with all the other numbers I gave you, I'm guessing zero is the number of times you're gonna call it.
No.
C'mon. I bought 'em for you, to make up for that night.
Return 'em. Maybe you'll get your money back.
I had a good neighbor, George. She was 60 and Mexican and she watched my kids for free. Something tells me you're not gonna be able to measure up to that.
You need help with your kids? I could probably do that.
I'm not gonna leave my kids with you.
Why not?
Cause I don't even know you.
Yeah, and whose fault is that?
Yeah. I'm probably ruining them.
How?
I'm never here. I gotta leave 'em with this weird sitter all afternoon who costs a fortune and smells like chicken fat.
I was serious before, you know. If you need someone to keep an eye on them  after school or something  I don't have a job now, so I'm around in the afternoons.
Great. Another deadbeat.
I'm not a deadbeat. I work when I need to.
Yeah? And what do you do the rest of the time, live off your trust fund?
I do construction, which pays real good. And I make it last by living cheap.
I hope that's not supposed to impress me.
Are you this hard on everyone who tries to help you?
It's been a while. Maybe I'm just out of practice.
Then lemme remind you, the polite thing is to say, thank you, that's a real nice offer, I don't mind taking you up on it.
Why in the hell would you want to watch my kids?
Cause I like kids. I like hanging out with them.
Right.
You're around every afternoon?
Yup. Usually working on my bike. No big deal. If it doesn't work out, you can send 'em back to the chicken fat lady.
This isn't gonna get you laid, you know.
Yeah, we'll just see about that, won't we?
What're you doing?
Better safe than sorry.
I'm gonna put a dead bolt on your front door, too. This isn't exactly the safest neighborhood in the world, you know.
Thanks for reminding me.
I guess we get what we pay for, huh?
You think it could make you sick, living in a place like this?
What do you mean?
What are you doing here?
Fixing a leak under your sink.
Great.
I'm gonna clean it up.
What kind of person lives like this? Huh? What kind of person lets her kids run around in a house crawling with bugs the size of housecats?
It's a simple thing. Everybody gets them. All we gotta do is call an exterminator.
I <u>can't</u> call an exterminator. I can't afford one. God, I can't even afford my <u>phone</u>. I got fired.
What? But you been working so hard 
Doesn't matter. Doesn't make one bit of difference. Oh God, George, how'd this happen to me? How'd I end up so ... so <u>nothing</u>?
You're not nothing, Erin.
Well, I'm sure as hell not what I thought I was gonna be. I was supposed to have one of those great lives, with everything all laid out and perfect. I mean, hell  I was Miss Wichita, for God's sakes. Did I tell you that? You live next door to a real live beauty queen. I still got the tiara. I kept it cause I thought it meant something. I thought it meant I was gonna do something great with my life. I thought it proved I was gonna grow up to be someone.
You are someone.
No I'm not. Look at me. I'm not.
You're someone to me. You're someone real special to me.
George, I am just trying to do something nice for my kids on my one day off. Could you please not give me a hard time about it?
One toy per kid is doing something nice. Four is ... something else.
Well, hell, I guess that's it, then, huh? They're scarred for life. They're gonna start holding up 711's any day now.
I'm just saying 
I know what you're saying, and I don't wanna hear it. I am doing the best I can.
I'm not gonna quit cause of one creepy phone call, George.
Come on, Erin. A job's supposed to pay your bills, not put you in danger.
I'm not in danger. I have a dead bolt. Remember?
Look, don't take this the wrong way, but don't you think you might be out of your league here?
No, see  that's exactly what those arrogant PG&E fucks want me to think  that because they got all this money and power, we don't stand a chance in hell against them. But you know what? They're wrong.
It doesn't have to be this complicated, Erin. There's a lot of jobs out there.
How would you know?
You mind telling me what that's supposed to mean?
Nothing.
If you got a problem with me taking care of your kids instead of getting some job, just say so.
I didn't say that.
Cause I can get a job. I will. And you can start leaving the kids with the chicken fat lady again. Would that make you happy?
Keep your voice down.
I know what they can sleep through, Erin. I probably know it better than you.
I'm so tired I'm about to drive off the road. Keep me awake, willya?
What do you want, a joke?
No, no jokes, I gotta pee. Just tell me about your day. What went on back there?
Well, come to think of it, we did have a big event around here. Beth started talking.
What? Beth? My Beth?
Yeah. We were sitting around at lunch and she pointed at a ball and said, "ball."
I'm bored, and so are the kids.
Just a few more minutes, then we can go. Take her, will you?
I'm just saying  we have one night to ourselves, why do we have to spend it here?
Cause it's my office party. If you had an office, I'd go to your party.
That's Ed.
Lock the door.
No, I wanna say hi.
It wouldn't kill you to talk about something other than yourself and your own fucking job once in a while 
What do you want to talk about instead? <u>Your</u> day? That's a fascinating subject.
Fuck you. Just cause I don't spend all day trying to prove what hot shit I am 
That is not what I'm 
Bull<u>shit</u>, Erin. Bullshit.
What's going on? What are you doing?
Thinking.
About what?
About this.
What's that?
It's a pair of earrings. I saw 'em in the mall one day, and I thought, damn, those would look good on those beautiful earlobes. So I bought 'em. And I said to myself, next time Erin says something nice, does something nice, I'll surprise her with 'em. Know how long ago that was? Six months. In six months, you haven't said one nice thing to me. That's a long time.
I'm sorry. I'm just working so hard 
I know. But still. Six months. I think you oughta either find a different job or a different boyfriend. Cause there may be men who don't mind being the maid and getting nothing in return, but I'm sure as shit not one of 'em.
I can't leave my job, George.
Yeah, you can. You could just quit. People do it all the time.
I can't. Look  this job  it's the best thing that ever happened to me. I mean it. For the first time in my life, I got people respecting me. Up in Hinkley, I walk into a room and everyone shuts up just to hear what I got to say. I never had that. Ever. Don't ask me to give it up. I need it.
More than you need me.
I need it.
You already packed up your stuff?
I pretty much knew what your answer was gonna be.
They said that'd be tomorrow. They just wanna keep an eye on me another night.
Fine. I'll drop 'em off tomorrow afternoon.
Thank you.
Mmhm.
Hello?
Hi. It's me. I got a favor to ask you.
I don't do favors for you anymore.
It's not for me; it's for my kids. You're the only one I trust them with.
They up?
Hunhuh. Not yet. Look, don't take any of 'em on your bike, okay? Call a cab if you wanna go somewhere.
How long's this whole thing gonna take?
I don't know. Few days. Thanks for helping me. I appreciate it.
And I miss you.
Yeah, well  good help is hard to find.
Think you could learn?
You know me. I pick things up real fast.
You shouldn't be driving around, you know. You're sick.
Yeah, but I'm gonna get better. A lot of these folks aren't.
What time is it?
Real early. We're just gonna take your car to get some breakfast.
No, I need my car 
We'll just be a minute. Get a little more sleep.
Promise you'll turn around if you get tired.
I will. Bye.
Hey  those are my files 
Yeah, we had them couriered over. And listen, good work. They're a great start. We're just going to have to spend a little time filling in the holes in your research.
Excuse me  Theresa, was it? There are no holes in my research.
No offense. There are just some things we need that you probably didn't know to ask.
Don't talk to me like I'm an idiot, okay? I may not have a law degree, but I've spent 18 months on this case, and I know more about those plaintiffs than you ever will.
Erin. You don't even have phone numbers for some of them.
Whose number do you need?
Everyone's. This is a lawsuit. We need to be able to contact the plaintiffs.
I said, <u>whose number do you need</u>?
You don't know six hundreds plaintiffs' numbers by heart.
Annabelle Daniels.
Annabelle Daniels. 7144549346.
Okay, look  I think we got off on the wrong foot here 
That's all you got, lady. Two wrong feet. In fucking ugly shoes.
There's no way a son of mine hates Funky Town. It's impossible.
Well I hate it.
Yeah.
Thank God we got you away from her, huh?
Can I play roller hockey?
We'll see.
When?
Randy's mom said yes right away.
Well, God damn it, Matthew  Randy's mom doesn't work eighteenhour days, and Randy's dad didn't leave her, so figuring out who's gonna take who where is a little easier over at Randy's house.
God damn it, Matthew. What the hell are you doing out here?
I'm gonna go live with George.
We'll work out the roller hockey thing, okay? Whatever you want, we'll work it out. I promise.
You always say that. Then you go to work and forget you promised.
I never forget, honey. I try, real hard. It's just, for some reason, I don't seem to be able to organize things right and  when it comes to you guys, I end up falling short.
You never fall short for the work people. I guess maybe you just love them more.
Oh, God, sweetheart, no. There's nothing on Earth I love more than you. Nothing. I promise.
She's one of the sick people?
Yeah. She is. But you know what? That's why I'm helping her. So she can get some medicine to make her feel better.
How come her own mom isn't helping her?
Cause her own mom's real sick, too.
Masry & Vititoe, can I help you?
Hi, Rosalind, this is Erin. Brockovich. From the file room? I was wondering if you could tell Mr. Masry that I'm following up on that real estate thing out of the office.
You've been reading for hours.
I'm a slow reader, on account of the fact that I look at the word "dog" and see "god".
Hey, just so long as you see Him.
Hey, Erin, I thought you were taking a sick day.
So did I.
What's going on in there?
Some meeting. With PG&E people.
PG&  Are you sure?
Yup. They must be important, too, cause they came on a special plane.
Hey, Ros, where are they?
In the conference 
Hey, Ros. Nice view, huh?
Yeah, I'm gonna start sleeping here. Masry & Vititoe, can I  damn it. Does anyone know anything about these phones?
Put your napkins in your laps and eat up.
How come you're not eating?
Mommy, can I get a flower?
Sweetheart, you can get a whole big bunch.
I hate it too. I hate this trip.
Oh, come on, where's your sense of adventure? We're going someplace you never been before.
I'm gonna hate it.
Yeah. A real moron.
Some kind of halfwit, nogood, bighaired, bimbo, I bet.
Look, I know you're mad. But the way this job is, things come up at the last minute, real important things, and I gotta deal with them. Now I don't like me missing dinner any more than you do, but we're all gonna have to get used to it, cause the fact is, it's gonna happen sometimes.
It happens all the time.
That's not true; we had dinner together just last night.
What are you <u>doing</u>? Where's George?
I don't know.
George!
What kind of chromium is it?
There's more than one kind?
Yes. There's straightup chromium  does all kinds of good things for the body. There's chrom 3, which is fairly benign, and then there's chrom 6, hexavalent chromium, which, depending on the amounts, can be very harmful.
Harmful, like  how? What would you get?
With repeated exposure to toxic levels  God, anything, really  respiratory disease, liver failure, heart failure, reproductive failure, chronic headaches, bone or organ deterioration  plus, of course, any type of cancer.
So that stuff  it kills people.
Oh, yeah. Definitely. Highly toxic, highly carcinogenic. Bad, bad stuff.
Well, how do I find out what kind of chromium is up in Hinkley?
Have you been to the water board?
Hunhuh. What's that?
Every county has one. They keep records of anything waterrelated within their jurisdiction. You should be able to find something there.
County water board. All righty, thanks.
Good luck. Oh  I wouldn't advertise what you're looking for if I were you ...
Oh, hey  lemme give you a hand there.
Thank you very much. Aren't you a gentleman? Mr. ...
Ross.
Ross. Real pleased to meet you. I'm Erin.
Erin. Cool. What can I do for you, Erin?
Well, believe it or not, I am on the prowl for some water records.
You come to the right place.
I guess I did.
You just tell me what you want to look at and I'll be glad to dig 'em out for you.
I wish I knew. It's for my boss. He's fighting his water bill, and he wants me to find all manner of bills from all kinds of places. The easiest thing would probably be if I just squeezed back there with you and poked around myself. Would that be okay?
Heck, yeah. Come on back. Just gonna need you to sign in here 
Pattee? That your middle name?
Nope. Maiden.
You're married.
Not anymore.
You know what, Erin? I got nothing but time here. Why don't you let me do that for you, and you can get your kids some dinner.
Ross  you are an absolute angel.
Hey, Ross. Tell me something. Does PG&E pay you to cover their ass, or do you just do it out of the kindness of your heart?
I don't know what you're talking about.
The fuck you don't. No one calls me Pattee. That heavybreathing sicko that called the other night could've only found out about me from you. People are dying, Ross. You got document after document here, right under your nose, that says why, and you haven't said word one about it. I wanna know how the hell you sleep at night.
I was working in the compressor, and out of nowhere the supervisor calls me up to the office and says, we're gonna give you a shredder machine, and send you on down to the warehouse. We want you to get rid of all the documents stored out there.
Did he say why?
Nope. And I didn't ask.
Did you get a look at the stuff you destroyed?
Well, it's pretty boring work, shredding  you gotta find some way to entertain your mind. So yeah, I took a look.
And ...?
There was a lot of dull stuff  vacation schedules, the like. But then there were a few memos about the holding ponds. The water in them. They had readings from test wells, stuff like that.
And you were told to destroy those?
That's right.
Course as it turns out, I'm not a very good employee.
What do you mean?
Well. There were a few documents that I somehow didn't get around to shredding. That I kept instead.
How come you didn't say anything when you found these things?
At the time, I thought, I got six kids, some of 'em want to go to college. I can't afford to lose my job. I told myself I was being honorable. But there's nothing honorable in what I did. Maybe that's why they picked me for the job. Maybe they knew what kind of man I was.
When'd they file the demur?
Yesterday.
How many counts?
Sixtynine. We've got good answers to all of 'em.
Who's the judge?
Corey.
Good.
I've also been thinking about the team. Responsibilities, who should cover what 
Right.
I think we should makes some changes.
They took some bone from my hip and put it in my neck. I didn't have insurance, so I'm about seventeen thousand in debt right now.
... couldn't take painkillers cause they made me too groggy to take care of my kids.
... Matthew's six, Katie's four, and Beth's just nine months.
... just wanna be a good mom, a nice person, a decent citizen. Just wanna take good care of my kids. You know?
Yeah. I know.
Open and shut? <u>Open and fucking shut</u>?
If you hadn't used profanity 
Oh, please, it was long over by then. God damn, he made me look like some cheap 
I told you the questions might get a little personal 
Bullshit. You told me I'd get half a million dollars. You told me I'd be set.
Okay  let's try and settle down here.
<u>Settle down</u>? I got 74 bucks to my name, Mr. Masry! I can't <u>afford</u> to settle down!
I'm sorry, Erin.
Yeah? Well, fuck you. Sorry doesn't feed my kids.
You never called me back. I left messages.
You did? Wow, sorry about that. Listen, Mario's a little not so bright. He seems to think that you said 
There's two things I can't stand, Mr. Masry. Being ignored, and being lied to. You did both.
I never lied. I may have miscalculated  that happens sometimes, but 
You said things would be fine, and they're not.
I'm sorry about that. Really. But 
I don't need pity. I need a paycheck. And I've looked, but when you've spent the last six years raising babies, it's real hard to convince someone to give you a job that pays worth a damn. So I figure, since you're the one who said I was gonna be okay, you should be the one to hire me.
Okay, look. If you really want to apply for a job here, you can do it the way everyone else does. Send in a rsum, make an 
I'm <u>not</u> everyone else, Mr. Masry. I'm someone you made promises to that you didn't deliver on. I trusted you. With my kids' wellbeing. Now, I'm smart, and I'm hard working, and I'll do anything. But if you think I'm leaving here without a job, you got another thing coming.
Yeah?
I was wondering  could you tell me who I'd talk to about maybe getting an advance on my paycheck? Just  for the weekend.
Jane's the office manager. She handles payroll and petty cash. But she leaves early on Fridays.
Oh. Okay. That's okay.
All I have is hundreds.
I don't wanna take your money, Mr. Masry.
Bullshit, you don't.
Give her a cold washcloth to suck on  I gotta go  there's a clean one in that bag  I'll check back in a bit. Sorry. My kid 
Where's Anna?
Out to lunch with the girls.
Oh. Huh. Well, look, I got this file I need valued. Real estate thing. A lady has some property next to a PG&E plant that PG&E wants to buy. I need to know what to ask for it.
You do know how to do that, don't you?
Yeah. I got it. No problem.
Good.
You're a girl.
Excuse me?
How come you're not at lunch with the girls? You're a girl.
I guess I'm not the right kind.
Erin, you've been gone for a week.
I left a message. I've been dealing with that real estate thing. I was gonna write up a whole damn report and 
That's not how we work here. You don't just leave a message and take off.
Okay, enough  Now, look, Erin  this incident aside, I don't think this is the right place for you. So what I'm gonna do is make a few calls on your behalf. Find you something else, okay?
Don't bother.
Come on, I'm trying to help here.
Bullshit. You're trying to feel less guilty about firing someone with three kids to feed. Fuck if I'll help you do that.
What are you doing here?
I got an interesting call this afternoon. It was from a Dr. Frankel.
Oh, yeah?
He wanted you to know the legal limit for hexavalent chromium, is .05 parts per million. And that at the rate you mentioned, .58, it could be responsible for the cancers in that family you asked about. The Irvings.
Well, that was nice of him. Isn't it funny how some people go out of their way to help people and others just give 'em the ax?
Look, I'm sorry. You were gone. I just assumed you were off having fun.
Now, why in the hell would you assume that?
I don't know. Maybe cause you look like someone who has a lot of fun.
Boy, are you ever a shitty judge of people.
So what's the story on this thing? This cancer stuff?
You wanna know, you gotta hire me back. I got a lot of bills to pay.
But, PG&E told her about the chromium?
They told her something, but it can't have been too specific, cause I talked to her, and she sure didn't think her water was bad.
So what made you think it was?
It doesn't take a genius to look at those medical records and think something's wrong.
What medical records?
The ones in the box of files. The box of files? The one from your office?
I didn't see any medical records in there.
Boy, you musta really finetoothcombed it then, huh? And <u>you</u> fired <u>me</u>. Jesus.
That document you found, the one that says it was the bad chromium  you didn't happen to make a copy did you?
Course I did.
Lemme see it, will you?
I want a raise. And benefits. Including dental.
Look, Erin, this is not the way I do business, this extortion nonsense.
Okay. A 5% raise, and 
Ten. There's a lot of other places I could work.
A ten percent raise and benefits. But that's it. I'm drawing the line.
This is the only thing you found?
So far. But that place is a pig sty. I wouldn't be surprised if there's more.
Find out.
I'm telling you, the minute Brenda sent the fax  I'm talking the second she pressed that send button  PG&E claims department is on the phone to me, scheduling a meeting.
So you think we got 'em scared?
It sure as hell sounded like they were sitting up and taking notice.
At least they made an offer.
That wasn't an offer. A million would've been an offer. When they send the God damn mail clerk down to jerk me off, waste my time, it's a fuck you.
I don't get why they'd do that.
Because they can. You heard that kid  they have 28 billion dollars at their disposal. They can afford to waste all the time in the world.
And you can't?
What, you think I'm made of money?
Mr. Masry, Mario gets lost going to the bathroom. They'll be driving around the valley for hours.
Yeah. Isn't that a shame?
Boy, do I know how you feel. First time I heard that number, I said you got to be kidding me. Forty God damn percent?
Erin 
I'm the one who's injured, and this joker who sits at a desk all day is gonna walk away with almost half my reward?
Erin 
Then I don't get anything either.
And I realized, he's taking a chance too.
Hunhuh. Absolutely not.
That's crazy  why not?
Because I said no. Look  the only reason PG&E's even talking to us is cause this is a quiet little real estate dispute. We add plaintiffs, and suddenly we're in the middle of a toxic tort  with a statute problem  against a massive utility. No, thank you.
Okay, so here's what I'll do. I'll go on up to Ted and Rita Daniels  two of the nicest people you'd ever hope to meet, who spend every single day watching their little girl fight like a dog against this cancer  I'll tell them we can't help them cause you don't feel like working that hard.
It's not about working hard 
Bullshit.
 It's about being realistic. Something like this, Erin  it could take forever. They're a huge corporation. They'd completely bury us in paperwork. I'm just one guy with a shitty little P.I. firm.
 who happens to know they poisoned people and lied about it.
And this shit is bad news, Mr. Masry. Not only does it attack every organ of the body, it fucks with your DNA, too. That means these people's genes, and the genes of their kids, and the genes of their grandkids 
I know how DNA works, Erin 
We can get these people. With a little effort, I really think we can nail their asses to the wall.
Oh, you do? With all your legal expertise, you believe that?
Okay, fine. I don't know shit about shit. But I know the difference 
How many families we talking about here?
Four more. Eleven people. So far.
You think there's more?
Well  I found one document at the water board that had a toxic test well reading from 1967. A hell of a lot of people have lived on that land since then.
This is a whole different ball game, Erin. A much bigger deal.
Kinda like David and what'shisname?
Kinda like David and what'shisname's whole fucking family. Okay, here's the deal  if, and only if, you find me the evidence to back all this up  I'll do it. I'll take it on.
You're doing the right thing, Mr. Masry.
Yeah, yeah. Remind me of that when I'm filing for bankruptcy.
What now?
Another raise wouldn't hurt. And with all the time I'm gonna be spending on the road, I'll probably be needing my own cel phone, won't I?
Is that what I think it is?
She lived on the plume. You never know.
You wanna talk about 
<u>No</u>.
They used the hex chrom here, in these cooling tanks, as an anticorrosive. Then they dumped it here, in these six ponds.
I don't remember seeing any ponds up there.
They covered 'em over. And not too carefully either, cause you dig one inch under the surface, and the dirt is green as a fucking shamrock.
And that's what caused the contamination?
It didn't help, but no. The real problem's on the bottom.
See, according to this, they were supposed to line the ponds so this shit couldn't seep into the ground. But guess what 
They skipped that step.
I guess it was a little too inconvenient. So for fourteen years, this stuff flowed into the groundwater, free as you please.
Jesus. I don't even wanna ask what you did to make this Melendez guy talk.
For your information, Frank cares what was in those ponds 'cause he used to spend half his day wading around them. That was his job.
No shit.
No 
Erin  lemme tell you something. If I'da put three researchers on this, I wouldn't expect them to dig up all the information you got here. This is some damn good work.
Yeah? Then gimme another raise.
Hey, I got a staff to pay, plus rent, plus I haven't billed a minute of my time since I started on this case, so you can quit hitting me up like I'm rich or something.
Don't give me that. You're gonna get plenty rich off of this, Mr. 40 percent. We got those PG&E fuckers by the balls here.
We've got the PG&E fuckers in Hinkley by the balls. But nobody's getting rich unless we can pin this on the corporate PG&E fuckers in San Francisco.
What do you mean?
PG&E corporate is claiming they had no way of knowing what was going on in Hinkley.
Oh, they knew. They had to know.
Show me the document that proves that.
Then they didn't know. And if they didn't know, we can't hit 'em for punitive damages. And punitive damages is where the money is.
Jesus Christ, Ed  you know, the more I work on this thing, the more I realize what a crock of shit this legal system is. Here we got a company that poisoned a whole aquifer  that built a pool for a town, then filled it with toxic water  and <u>we're</u> the ones who've gotta bust our ass proving things? That's just not right.
I like this case.
Really? It makes me sick.
Me too. That's why I like it. It's been a long time since I had a case I cared about.
You didn't care about my case?
I would now.
Hey. I like working with you.
Well, good, Ed. I like working with you too.
If they've sent that little shmuck Baum again, I'm gonna be real pissed off.
From their tone of voice on the phone, I'd say they're taking us more seriously.
Yeah, I heard that one before.
Jesus. They look like the Secret Service.
They're trying to intimidate us. Tell them to wait in the conference room.
Hey. A new plaintiff called, wants to meet you. I told him we'd be out there Thursday.
D'you get his name? Course not. Jesus, Ed 
He said he'd be at the gas station at six.
Boy, this job takes me to some of the best damn places, huh?
Someone's following me.
What? Who?
Some guy in a truck  he waited till I was alone, then he followed me, like, two miles. Jesus, I'm shaking. Get me a beer.
What kind of truck?
I don't know. Big. Dark.
He's gone. Did you get a license plate? Or a make?
No, Ed  what with me running for my life, I didn't have time to check those things 
I was just asking. Are you all right?
Yeah. Yeah, I'm ... fine.
I want my fucking money 
I'm sorry, I'm gonna have to put you on hold for just one second here  Do you mind?
Yeah, I mind. You bet your ass I mind.
Oh, Jesus. You wanna tell me what the problem is here, or 
It's my paycheck. Which I earned. Which I deserve. Which I shouldn't have to beg for. That fatass bitch won't give it to me.
Erin, you're a big girl. If you got a problem with Jane, work it out for yourself. I don't have time to deal with 
Fuck you. Make time. Cause I bust my ass for you. I watch everything else in my life go straight in the toilet, for you. And what do you do for me? Huh? You see the way I'm treated around here  but have you ever stood up for me once? Have you ever mentioned to everyone what good work I'm doing? Have you ever bothered saying, hey, Erin doesn't get paid the most cause she has the best tits; she gets paid the most cause she's the best God damn employee I've ever had?
Is that what you want?
I want my paycheck. By the end of the day.
I'll see what I can do.
You might want to think real hard about the amount, too. My kids are sitting in the God damn parking lot right now, cause I still don't make enough to afford good child care. Makes me think about looking around for a job where I'm appreciated, for shit's sake.
What kind of things come up?
Things like the head counsel for PG&E calling me with an offer. 20 million, plus attorney's fees. Take it or leave it.
Whoa. No shit.
It's about 50 thousand per plaintiff.
So what are you thinking?
I'm thinking ... I wish someone else had to make this decision. 50 thousand bucks is more than any other California toxic plaintiff has gotten. Ever. But ...
... but it won't cover Annabelle Daniels's medical bills.
And it's less than pocket change for PG&E.
Do you think we'd do better by going to trial?
Maybe. but maybe not. We still don't have anything linking this to PG&E corporate. Plus, there's the statute problem. Plus, we're way short on manpower, so we'd need to bring on more lawyers ...
Plus, 40 percent of 20 million's a whole lot of money.
It's eight million dollars, Erin. Eight million dollars.
Holy shit. Who do they represent, God?
Don't joke. They might. So do me a favor and behave yourself for once. Ed Masry to see Kurt Potter.
What's a demur?
It's PG&E saying to the judge that we don't have a case. Their lawyers go 
Counts?
Reasons PG&E thinks it shouldn't go to 
Why good?
He's got a reputation for doing all his 
She insulted me!
Bullshit. It was a misunderstanding. But instead of handling it politely, instead of treating her with respect 
Why the fuck should I respect her?
Because <u>that's how people treat each other</u>!
Not in my world.
Gee, I wonder why.
If you tell me to relax, I'm gonna kick your fucking head off 
Erin, it's just a meeting.
People don't fly down in their own god damn plane for "just a meeting" 
Look, you said you weren't feeling great. I thought you should rest.
Bullshit. You'd drag me off my deathbed if it suited you.
Okay, look. It's an important meeting. Kurt thought, if it was just lawyers 
Kurt thought? What about you? Do you think anymore?
Look, this is serious now. They're talking serious money 
And, what, I'm not serious?
You're emotional. You're erratic. You say any God damn thing that comes into your head. And I'm not saying that's bad. That can be great; that can be a lot of fun 
"Fun?" Jesus, "<u>fun</u>?" I kill myself for a year and a half, hand you the best case of your life on a God damn silver platter, remind you of why you became a lawyer in the first place, and you think of me as "fun?"
Okay, now you're making this personal, and it isn't 
<u>Not personal</u>? That's my <u>work</u> in there, Ed. My sweat, my labor, my time. If that's not personal, I don't know what is.
How dare you take that away from me.
No one's taking anything 
Bullshit. You stuck me in Siberia dictating to some God damn steno clerk so you could finish this thing without me. After all I've done for you, that's the thanks I get.
Don't give me that. You've gotten plenty. You've been wellpaid; you've gotten lots of perks ...
Perks? Jesus  <u>perks</u>?
If you're here to fire me, your timing's lousy.
I'm not gonna fire you. I wanted to. But then you got sick, and that woulda made me look like a shit. You embarrassed me, Erin.
I know. I'm sorry. Do I get to hear what happened anyway?
Between 50 and 400 million, definitely?
Uhhuh.
And if you had to guess ...
With nothing linking it to the corporate offices yet, I'd say we'll end up on the lower end of that. Still a lot of money.
So why would PG&E offer it?
Because. They know the evidence; they know they're gonna lose a jury trial. Maybe they wouldn't lose 400 million bucks, but once you factor in all they'd spend on this case in the next ten years, it makes a lot of 
Wait, what do you mean, ten years?
Five years, maybe, for a trial. Double that for the appeal.
I'm sorry, are you saying that if this thing goes to trial, it'll be <u>ten years</u> before these plaintiffs see their money?
Hey, that's not so bad. Compare it to the Love Canal  that was twenty years ago, and those people still haven't seen a dime. So in legal terms, ten years is 
Fuck legal terms. We're talking about human beings here. Sick people. A whole bunch of them are gonna be dead in ten years. They need their money now! We gotta get 'em to agree to the arbitration, Ed. We gotta get every damn one of those plaintiffs to 
<u>I know</u>. We're having a meeting, it's all set up 
When? Where?
Tuesday at seven, at the Hinkley firehouse.
Okay, good. I think I should be the one to tell 'em, cause they trust me more than 
You're not gonna be there.
The fuck I'm not. I don't care what the doctor says 
This isn't doctor's orders. It's mine. I'm saying you can't come.
Why not?
Because Kurt doesn't want to work with you. He thinks you're a loose cannon.
Fuck Kurt.
Erin 
No, I'm serious. You know what Kurt Potter is? He's the kind of guy who never would have taken this case in the first place. He's the kind of guy who would have sold these plaintiffs down the river when PG&E offered 20 million. He doesn't work like us, Ed. There's no little voice in his head telling him to do the right thing.
Morning!
Erin? What are you 
You know what, Mr. Potter? I completely forgot your birthday this year. And seeing as how you've been so good to me, I think that is a terrible oversight. So what I been doing over the last few days is I've been putting together a present for you.
Ho  ly  shit.
Oh, now don't get all jealous, Ed. I got a little something for you, too.
I don't know what to say.
Say you were wrong.
I was wrong.
Say you shortchanged me and you shortchanged yourself.
I did. Both.
Say you'd be the luckiest son of a bitch on Earth if I didn't up and quit over all this.
The luckiest son of a bitch in the universe, Erin. The luckiest son of a bitch in history.
But I know you're not gonna quit on me.
How do you know that?
Cause you got a little voice in your head saying, do the right thing. Give him another chance.
Careful you don't spit from here; you could kill someone.
You see your office?
Yeah. Yours is nicer.
Oh, okay. Here it comes.
Here what comes?
The extortion, the threats ...
I wasn't gonna 
"I can always find someplace else to work. Someplace that'll pay me a fortune and give me a view of the French Riviera ..."
Ed, I swear, I'm not 
Okay, fine. <u>Fine</u> You backed me into a corner again. You're holding me hostage ...
What is that?
Take it.
Two million dollars?
The firm took in sixty. That's three percent. Seemed like a fair bonus to me.
Hi. Donna Irving?
Yes?
I'm Erin Brockovich, from Masry & Vititoe?
You're a lawyer?
Hell, no. I hate lawyers. I just work for them. You got a minute?
This is a real nice place you got here.
Well it oughta be, with all the work I put into it.
I added air conditioning, put in the pool, made all those pillows by hand ...
Yeah? I should learn to do stuff like that. They make the place feel real homey.
Thank you. I think so too. That's why I'm being such a stickler on this house price thing. I don't mean to be a pain in PG&E's backside, especially after all they've done for Hinkley, but I look around here and I think, if they want this place, they're gonna have to pay for it. And I don't just mean pay for the house; I'd like them to pay me for the trouble of starting over.
Right.
Cause first you gotta move, then there's decorating, and if the windows aren't the same size, you know  you're making all new curtains. Honest to God, I don't know if I have the energy. You know, I've been sick. Me and Peter both have.
Yeah, I'm real glad you brought that up. I was going through your file here, and I ran into these medical records. They kinda surprised me 
I know. They're more than a bit unusual. See, two years ago, Pete got Hodgkin's disease. That's a kind of cancer 
Yeah, I'm real sorry to hear that.
Thank you. It's in remission now, thank the Lord, but you never know. And then while that's going on, I end up having to have a hysterectomy. Plus a whole mess of lumps removed from my breasts. All benign so far, but still, no matter how positive you stay, an operation can still take it out of you.
I'll say. Holy moley.
So the whole idea of selling the house  don't get me wrong, I'd be glad to move to some better place, but if they aren't gonna pay us properly, I just don't see the point.
Yeah, I can see that. I guess the only thing that confused me is   not that your medical problems aren't important, but  how come the files about them are in with all the real estate stuff?
Are you kidding? With how our lives are, if I start subdividing files, I'll be sunk. I just kept all PG&E correspondence in one place.
Right, but  I'm sorry, I don't see why you were corresponding with PG&E about it in the first place.
Well, they paid for the doctor's visit.
They did?
You bet. Paid for a checkup for the whole family. And not like with insurance where you pay, then wait a year to be reimbursed, either. They just took care of it. Just like that. We never even saw a bill.
Wow. Why would they do that?
Cause of the chromium.
The what?
The chromium. Well, that's what kicked this whole thing off.
What's chromium?
It's a chemical they used over at that compressor station up the road there.
Well, hell, maybe that's why you all have been so sick 
I thought the same thing, right off the bat. That's why we went to see the doctor. But hunhuh. Turns out one's got nothing to do with the other.
Seems like an awful big coincidence  your water being messed with and you being so sick.
Not around here. This is a rough part of the world. Hard times, not a lot of money, not a lot of luck. It's a challenge, staying healthy in a town like this. Heck, even our dogs up and die.
An onsite monitoring well? That means 
It was right up on the PG&E property over there.
And you say this stuff, this hexavalent chromium  it's poisonous?
Yeah.
Well  then it's gotta be a different than what's in our water, cause ours is okay. The guys from PG&E told me. They sat right in the kitchen and said it was fine.
I know. But the toxicologist I been talking to? He gave me a list of problems that can come from hexavalent chromium exposure. And everything you all have is on that list.
No. Hunhuh, see, that's not what the doctor said. He said one's got absolutely nothing to do with the other.
Right, but  didn't you say he was paid by PG&E?
Sure wish I had longer to get used to the idea. You think if you got no uterus, and no breasts, you're still technically a woman?
Sure you are. You're just a happier woman, cause you don't have to deal with maxipads and underwire.
You wouldn't happen to have a little time right now, would you, Donna?
For what?
Well, I was gonna head over to the Browns now. I was thinking  Mandy really values your opinion ...
It's a good day. I feel good.
Well, then  if you're feeling up to it, maybe we should talk shop.
The judge came up with a number.
A number for the whole group, or for us?
Both.
Oh, my God.
And he's making them give five million of it to you all.
Five million dollars?
Five million dollars.
I don't even know how much money that is.
It's enough  for whatever you need, for whatever your girls need, for whatever your girls' girls need  it'll be enough.
I can put them in a good school.
Any school you want.
And get someone to help around the house.
Yup.
Oh my God. Oh my God.
Meningitis? What the hell is meningitis?
It's an inflammation of the spinal cord and part of the brain.
Jesus.
She must be a tough cookie, cause it's a pretty advanced case. I'd say she's been walking around with it for a few weeks now.
How does someone get meningitis?
Usually, in adults, it's from exposure to bacteria or a virus or ...
... or lemme guess  toxic waste?
Seventeen thousand in debt. Whew. Is your exhusband helping out?
Which one?
There's more than one?
Yeah. There's two. Why?
So. You must've been feeling pretty desperate that afternoon.
What's your point?
What? Hey  <u>he</u> hit <u>me</u>.
So you say.
He came tearing around the corner, out of control 
An ER doctor who spends his days saving lives was the one out of control 
That asshole smashed in my fucking neck!
Tony Marvin.
Oh, Jesus. Who's responsible for his pain and suffering this time?
His dry cleaners. You want him?
What do you think? What's this?
Tequila. From your drug dealer friend.
Carlos isn't a friend; he's a client.
He's a lowlife. Speaking of which, that's your nine o'clock in there.
Whoa. Remind me.
Erin Brockovich. Car accident. Not her fault, she says. And she looks like such an honest girl, don't you think?
You shouldn't judge, Brenda.
Right. Lapdancers are people too.
What the hell is this doing here?
It's those files you asked for.
I didn't mean for you to leave them in the middle of the floor. Jesus. Look at me. What do I have this afternoon?
Nothing you can't show up for with a stain.
What's she doing here?
Who?
Fax these to this number, okay?
All of 'em?
All of them.
250,000?
In terms of land value out in Hinkley, Mr. Masry, we feel it's a more than fair price.
What about in terms of medical expenses? 250,000 doesn't come close to what this family's gonna have to spend on doctors.
I understand they've had a bad run of luck, healthwise, and they have my sympathies. But that's not PG&E's fault.
You're kidding, right? Look at these readings for Christ's sake. PG&E's own technicians documented toxic levels of hexavalent chromium in those test wells, on numerous occasions.
A million things could have caused those problems. Poor diet, bad genes, irresponsible lifestyle. Our offer is final and more than fair.
Wait a minute  I thought we were negotiating here.
250,000 is all I'm authorized to offer.
Mr. Masry, before you go off on some crusade, you might want to remember who it is you're dealing with here. PG&E is a 28 billion dollar corporation.
Thanks. I'll keep it in mind.
Tell you what, why don't you go on over to reception, tell them I said Mario should take you to the airport.
Hey, excellent. Thanks.
... what we do in here is keep track of all the case files. That way, at any time, we can find out a case's status  where it is in the office, stuff like that. We file 'em all here, alphabetically 
Oh, hell. I'm dyslexic.
That's a joke, right?
Anna? With this realestate valuing stuff   could you remind me, cause I'm a little confused about how exactly we do that.
Erin, you've been here three weeks. If you don't know how to do your job by now, I am not about to do it for you.
Where've you been?
What the fuck did you do with my stuff?
Don't use language with me 
Um, Erin? Listen. Even though you're not necessarily my favorite person in the world ... ... sometimes you're not halfbad.
I'm gonna assume that was meant as a compliment, Anna, and just say thank you.
I'm not real big on collecting banged up Ferraris at airports.
Next time I'll use valet parking.
They work off the O2 tank just like the slice pack.
Which is
In the van.
Tina was a wonderful woman.
Don't go getting sentimental. You're no damn good at it.
I'd give you a hand but it wouldn't look good.
Yeah, the lord of the manor doesn't haul his own groceries.
And you do it so well.
The porta power...comm kits...got the IR/Thermo camera?
Had to get a liquid plasma screen.
The key to success is using the right tools.
You're not the one trying to get all this shit. You think they've just got a Crooks R Us on every corner?
We're going to need a vacuum with a battery pack for the dust. The air filters might be wired. And a bypass hose for the AC.
Sure wouldn't want you to be uncomfortable.
If we don't bypass it, the temperature in the Mask room will change and set off the alarm. That would be inconvenient.
Inconvenient is trying to find a pulsing laser with magic arms in two days.
You are a miracle worker.
We might not want to cash in our chips just yet. She has another job after this one. A big one.
This is big enough.
It's never big enough.
Let me ask you, this Mask, when they made itwas the old bitch dead or alive?
It's a death mask. Death mask means dead.
Right.
Because I never assume anything.
I need you to get one more thing for me. A dress, elegant but sexy, something Grace Kelly would wear. Maybe a Balenciaga.
That's it, I sure as hell ain't no personal shopper.
Black of course.
I'd say she's a size 6 who wears a size 4.
This better be worth 1t.
Oh, it is.
It better be worth it for me.
I said a masked ball, not a costume party.
How the hell I'm supposed to know the damn difference?
You look like George Washington.
I cannot tell you a goddamned lie. She's selling you a pig in a poke. We better do this tonight.
It's too soon.
The early bird gets the damn worm.
But the second mouse gets the cheese.
So patience, Thibeau, patience. Trust me.
Remind me why.
Because it pays off.
You two make quite a couple.
We're supposed to.
You better not be taking on a new partner.
Suspicious, after all these years?
You change partners, you change the rules.
Oh, look at me, darling. I thought this gentleman was a waiter.
You damn well thought wrong.
I'm terribly sorry old man.
Tonight your league night?
Check out my ball.
Doesn't look like much. How come those Commos want it so bad?
It's not just art, it's history. Something you Americans don't care aboutbecause you haven't got any.
That's because we live in the future. Which is what's on my mind.
This is just show and tell.
I'm waiting for the tell part.
She's calling the shots now.
You're impressed with her, aren't you?
She's good. Give her that. Almost as good as she thinks she is.
She reminds you of yourself. There's nobody you admire more.
My antenna is up, it is fully extended, and I am picking up...what is it? It is, can it be? The boy is in el, u, v.
It's never happened before. What makes you think it's happening now?
You better be keeping your mind on business. It's not just me you got to worry about. I've got some very unpleasant folks looking over my shoulder.
You know where my loyalties lie.
To yourself, that's where.
You'll just have to have faith.
Faith is angels dancing on the head of a pin. I got to have trust.
She won't tell me everything. It's a bank job, that's all I know.
Thirtyfive next generation microchips. Copper, not silicon. Value: one million each.
You're giving them to me?
Call it an expression of trust.
Thought you had to use some of these.
You don't really think I'd leave ten million dollars worth of our chips in her bag? What matters isn't what's real. It's what we <u>think</u> is realwhat matters is the art.
Take this mask. It may look like the Empress, but it's not.
I figured that out.
The face decays, the mask doesn't. Art lasts, we don't. That's why art's so valuable. It's a little piece of immortality.
You got a real problem with priorities, you know that?
I really don't think that's a topic on which you have much to offer.
Did I ever tell you what Tina wrote? The night she died?
My friend, you always surprise me.
We wear so many goddam masks after a while they get stuck to our faces, you know? And they don't come off. But when you find the one person who really knows you, and then you lose her...
Takes a lot out of you, one like this.
Yes it does.
I been meaning to tell you, far as I'm concerned you're over the hill.
See you.
Probably not.
Yeah. Probably not.
A true master. Classic, yet extremely sexual, don't you think?
We need to make the trade tomorrow.
Always in a rush.
You should know, when I come back here with the Maskif anything goes wrong, a detailed description of everything you've done goes to the PRC.
Gin, really.
Tomorrow. It has to be tomorrow. Or forget the Mask.
I have a question...
Who am I?
That is of no interest.
Why are we speaking Chinese?
Uh. I'm showing off.
A billion people speak Chinese. Don't be too impressed with yourself. As for that scroll, I can resell it for double. In 30 minutes.
No you can't.
I can't?
It's sold.
How about if I try humility.
How about if you try disappearing.
Mr. MacDougal.
You're like malaria. Once you get it, you can't get rid of it.
I'm sorry about the scroll, but sometimes you have to lose to win.
Where did you hear that, one of those American talk shows? Check, please.
I don't want to waste your time.
Then don't.
I have a proposal for you.
Believe me, if you weren't so tiresome, I'd have one for you.
Something of great value, something of such artistic and historic significance that only you could truly appreciate...
You have a car?
Uh, yes.
Meet me in front. Five minutes.
Seems I am.
I'll call an ambulance.
It's nothing serious. I'll just run into that building. They'll have some sort of first aid kit.
You disappeared.
You seemed to be handling everything quite nicely.
Are you...okay?
It was only a scratch. Far more damaging to my trousers than to me.
That's good. Terrific.
I don't care about the damned car. My luggage's been stolen.
You're joking. You can't trust anyone these days.
Yes. But they don't have a clue. Why would anyone steal my luggage?
Maybe the thief thought you had something valuable. You are in the business, that's what Roki says.
Like I would have art in my suitcase.
Of course you wouldn't. The Rembrandt wouldn't fit.
Excuse me?
I've got something...
I sincerely hope so.
You're not taking me seriously.
Oh, I'm taking you...quite seriously.
I didn't expect you to be so...
So what?
So alive.
Do you mind?
You...you can't.
Of course I can. I have a note from mother.
You're shaking. Are you nervous?
No. Why would I be?
Because you young Americans think the world began when you were born. You fall apart when you don't get your own way.
I've got something for you.
Oh, that's quite all right. No charge.
And I thought we were getting on so well.
We were, we are, but this is perfect for you.
Not interested.
Are you under the impression that now I'm in some way obligated to you?
Well, no...but...
Good. I'll call the concierge. They can get you a new room, book your flight home, so forth.
For God's sake.
I'm sorry. This just means so much to me.
The Empress Death Mask.
The most important piece of Chinese art outside of China.
Somewhat better than that temple scroll you were bidding on.
That old pirate Chiang Kai Shek personally took this to Taiwan when he was run out of China in 1949. Peking would dearly love to have this back...
I suspected it might be worthy of your interest.
It's not for sale.
I know.
So you've heard all those stories about me. Well, I can assure you they're not true. And if they were true, I've retired.
But Roki said
Roki has a vivid imagination.
Besides, if I lacked certain ethical scruples about the ownership of propertywhich I do notI wouldn't need a partner, much less a callow girl. I'd do it myself.
You can't.
Oh?
It's only on exhibit at the Queen's Museum this month. Even if you could get into the museum, the Mask bas its own security system. A special, randomly programmed interval code.
We going somewhere?
Possibly.
Maybe I should drive this time.
Maybe you should go buy yourself some clothes.
Very nice.
Not a word.
You want me to pick up a painting?
Quite a good one. A Monet. Not major, but it is Giverney.
I'm not here to run errands. I'm here for the Mask.
If I can't trust you to pick up a painting, how can I trust you about the Mask?
It's a test.
That's my girl.
Fine. What do I do?
It's simple. You pick up the painting, you pay for it with this debit card.
How much am I paying?
I'm paying...one point five million and change. I hate round numbers.
It's a fake.
Give him the card.
But
Can you follow simple directions?
I'm telling you it's a forgery. The paint's still wet for God's sake.
Look on the back. What do you see?
A film case.
That's what you're buying. Put it in your pocket.
He says they turned the card down.
Damn, I knew I forgot something.
Not funny.
What the hell do I do now?
Up to you. You could tell him the check is in the mail.
What the hell was that?
Not bad. I didn't expect you to make it out.
You what?
Motorcycle.
Got it.
It's one way.
We're only going one way.
We're going to die, aren't we...
I'm not the one to ask...
What about your bags?
I never carry...baggage.
Those are my clothes.
Certainly not mine. Come on.
You stole my luggage? You
I'm a thief. Sue me.
Where's my bag?
That's entrapment.
No. Entrapment is what cops do to robbers.
I don't believe this.
What's your problem? I'm doing the job.
What's my problem? You want a list?
You really don't believe I'd take on a partner after all these years without a little...insurance?
Lose something?
I'm just curious what sort of security system you'd have in your own house.
And
I'm impressed. Can't spot a thing.
Hmmm. I'd be surprised if you could.
Nothing? You don't even lock the door?
I guess I have a more optimistic view of human nature than you do.
Why are we in separateyou know, separate rooms?
My job, my rules. We've got a job to do. No mixing business and pleasure.
You're late.
<u>I'm</u> dressed.
And good morning.
Good morning.
Nice spot.
It is. Coffee and fruitloops or whatever you eat in the kitchen. We'll start in twenty minutes.
I know it well.
As I recall, you've robbed it before.
Years ago, if memory serves. When does the exhibit end?
In a week.
Only a week?
They're having a farewell party the last night. Before the Mask goes back to Taiwan.
That's when we'll do it. And we'll need every single day.
So the Duke dug a tunneljust in case. They made the lake a hundred years later. Flooded the tunnel.
We go underwater?
We? Are you implying that I'm taking you inside?
We're doing this together. We're partners.
Precisely. You give me the Mask security code, I steal the Mask, you get a finders fee. At ten percent, should be two or three million at least. Not too bad.
I go in alone.
You don't get the Mask code unless I go.
Pack up. I'll see you get back to London.
Look, I can help. You need a sensor expert. You've got one.
This isn't some Picasso print you steal out of a car dealer's rec room.
You don't have any idea how lucky you are!
A lifelong problem, I'm afraid.
No, dammit! I mean me! That Rembrandt...that Rembrandt!
Nice try. Everyone thinks I did.
That's because I wanted them to!
I wondered who'd been giving me a bad name.
I drilled the bolts and went in through the window. It was the only way to bypass the smart glass.
True enough.
You need a partner for this job. You'll never find one as good as me.
The Rembrandtthat was quite good.
It was perfect.
Someone was expecting that.
You're too easily impressed with yourself. I believe I've made that point before.
I'll need that.
No one <u>needs</u> anything except food and shelter. The rest we just want.
This isn't a good time to hear your personal philosophy.
Don't worry, I can get rid of this. No trace. And I'll even go fifty fifty, we're partners aren't we?
No. It's a down payment.
On what? Another job?
We get the Mask I'll tell you.
A partner with secrets isn't much of a partner.
Without the Mask it doesn't matter.
So the Mask is part of the down payment too. Must be a really big job.
Let's just see how we do.
So you're testing <u>me</u> now?
Oh, I think you can do it. Probably.
Why don't we take oxygen?
We are...for the tools.
Let's do it again.
Try laps. Say a hundred.
Did I hear a car?
Our equipment has arrived.
Hmmm.
All this, this is a woman's version of what you would like.
It was a long time ago.
I didn't mean to get personal.
Yes you did.
So how long to pop the floor?
Twenty four secondsas long as it takes the clock to strike twelve.
And you've checked the ram to be sure it's synchronized with the clock.
A dozen times.
The lipstick thermal camera?
Got it.
Charged?
Charged. Receiver?
That's it. We're ready.
One more itemnot on the check list.
I trust it's your size.
It'sbeautiful.
You bought this for me?
Don't get any ideas. Of course it comes out of your share.
Thank you.
Thank you.
No, no, I want to. I'll just go into the village.
It's not a village. There's nothing there.
Won't take any time.
Straight down the drive, right at the hedgerow, follow the lane. Don't blink, you'll miss it.
Certainly the most beautiful crook I've ever seen.
I've got something for you.
Aren't we early?
Little celebration before we set off.
To us. To the Mask.
To our...partnership.
You're nervous again.
When I was a girl my father took me to the edge of El Capitan. Three thousand feet of granite. Straight down. I was so scared my mouth was full of cotton. I couldn't talk, just stood there shivering...like this.
You were afraid of heights?
Terrified. Still am.
How in the devil did you do the Rembrandt then?
I had a lifeline. If I've got a lifeline, I'm okay.
Aren't we all.
My father told me not to be afraid. He'd always be there for me.
He wasn't.
So you had to be your own lifeline.
Something like that.
And
He pulled back his arms and blam, I landed right on the floor. I picked myself up, tears in my eyes, and he looked at me and he said, Son, don't ever trust anybody. Anybody.
Camera in the
Bookshelf. Sensors
Popup, on floorboards. And
In eye of that painting.
We're working.
It's a party.
Let's mingle a little, shall we?
One, two, three...
You're not on the beat.
Don't turn. I'm counting the steps to the entrance.
These rooms are solid stone. They haven't changed.
You can't be too careful.
Yes, you can. You can spoil a perfectly nice dance.
Ready?
Ready.
Can you see the other PIRs?
Got it.
They moved it.
Behind you.
Be careful not to break the laser beams.
Duh.
Careful...careful.
Shut up.
We did it.
The Mask.
Now's when you tell me who you really are.
What?
You're playing both sides of the street. You're going to keep the Mask and turn me in.
No, no, please God, you're wrong. I'm a thief. Just like you.
Okay, you're a thief.
Yes. Yes.
What do I need a thief for? I've got the Mask.
STOP! You're making...mistake.
It's your mistake.
The big job.
There is no big job.
What?
A billion dollars.
Your share.
Get the hell in.
We're living history here.
You don't know the half of it.
I like banks. That's where the money is.
Speaking of money. You said billions. How many?
If you want a partner, I think you should recalculate the split.
Okay, 8020
No, really, it's your plan, you should get at least 30 per cent
My eighty, your twenty, smart guy
It's fiftyfifty, less the cost of the dress.
Come on, what can you do with six billion you can't do with four?
Hold the record. Alone.
Hmmm...44 long.
I always knew you'd do the job.
You've got everything planned.
Everything.
I'll need the Rembrandt now.
Sure, it's only worth 25 million or so, don't bother telling me what you're going to do with it.
I told you. It's the down payment. And thanks to you it's overdue.
Insidious thing, wondering if your partner...has another partner.
Okay, look, I'm delivering this to a man who's going to give us the key to our job. But it's pointless to try to explain it yet. You just have to trust me. I don't have any more secrets.
Everyone has secrets, it's what makes us human.
Idle hands, the devil's workshop.
There's food in the fridge. I won't be long.
The Mask. Where is it?
You took the Rembrandt, I figured it was a fair trade.
Do you know what you've done!? Do you know?
Would you quiet down! Just for a minute?
Oh my god, I thought
I'd taken the Mask?
What about the rules?
My job, my rules.
Well...What are we doing?
You're being useless. I'm making us rich.
Currency data so we can do optimum conversions at the moment of transfer.
Transfer.
The eight billion. From them to us.
Right. The eight billion.
What's that?
Guest lists of every Alist party on turnover night. They'd be handy to disappear into, so we're invited to all of them.
Peoples China Bank.
Where the money is.
It's taken me five years at Webber Insurance, nights, weekends, every spare minute, to make this CD. It has all the necessary instructions and confirmation codes to tell their computer to transfer reasonably modest sums out of thousands of those accounts, two, or three million at a crack. Total, eight billion and change.
And the money goes
Every wire transfer gets rocketed through a series of multiple switches. As soon as each deposit lands somewhere, it's shot somewhere else. It ends up so clean the Mafia couldn't find it.
But those instructions, they're recorded in the computer.
Nope. The CD instructs the computer to replace those instructions with an innocuous loan coded XJ6.
A parting gift from the Empire.
Sit down, I'll show you how we're going to do it.
The oscilloscope's already programmed.
It's no good without the argon gas.
Got it.
Then the vault, how to get in the vault, that's stumping me.
That's where the Mask comes in.
You've thought of everything.
So how long till we do this?
We're doing it tonight.
You can't be serious.
That's the beauty of it. There's only one tiny window of time when this will work. At the handover of Hong Kongfrom Britain to China. The handover from them to us.
You're out of your mind. We can't do a job like this with no rehearsal.
There's no way to practice this. And no time. Besides, I've planned it all. There aren't any surprises.
There's always a surprise.
I've covered everything. And you're the best, so
You're overestimating yourself again. What's worse, this time you're overestimating me.
Look, there's a video security system to bypass, that's the only hard part. You've done that a dozen times.
For God's sake, the only way I can get from one elevator to the other is to jump.
Feeling old?
How do I look?
Like a woman of mystery.
Access codes to the vault are changed daily, passwords for our computer on the hour...
Can't be too careful.
Two men in the world don't need passwords or codes. Their retinas will scan to unlock everything. one of those two men is the chairman of the bank.
Let me guess. His retinal plate is in there.
Pulse detectors.
Charged.
Parachute.
Packed.
Done. And I assume you have the magic CD ROM?
Surgically attached.
No way to take another day or two?
No. You'll see when we get inside.
You shouldn't have.
Can't break tradition. It's bad luck.
There is one more thing.
You have something in mind?
Call it a new tradition.
That was a lifetime ago.
It was wrong to deceive you.
But that's all behind us now.
But would youwould you
Have really held you under?
Of course not. It was just a negotiating ploy.
Nothing like fear of drowning to focus your attention.
I'm sorry.
So what are you going to do with your share?
Oh, I don't care about the money.
Four billion dollars.
Seen one billion, seen them all.
That's because you grew up rich.
A flaw in your research, my dear. I grew up chewing shoe leather for breakfast.
Not for me.
What? Another job? Stealing the Eiffel Tower?
I'm going to disappear. I die in a car crash in Taiwan. Very easy to do.
They drive so recklessly there.
I'm leaving from the Nathan Road Station at 6:30 tomorrow morning. You could come too.
The sign of our partnership.
Brought us luck once, maybe it will again.
And when, eventually, everyone discovers what transaction XJ6 was really about...
China will think it happened before midnight. Britain will swear it happened after midnight...
They'll each be positive the other guy did it. I fear an ugly international incident.
Jesus God, it's going through.
Hong Kong midnight, happy new year. Except at China Bank.
Relax, don't jam it...
FUCKING THING!!!
Don't panic, now, there's no rush...
We can't leave it IN THERE, it's got all our accounts, everything that can NAIL us to a goddam CROSS!!!
MOVE IT, WHAT ARE YOU WAITING F...
The disc is still in there.
We can't help it, we...we've gotta...
The door's the only way out!
I sincerely hope not.
Jesus.
You can do it.
Come on.
No way.
Go!
Hang on.
Get out of here!
I cannot get rid of you.
No, you can't.
Put this on!
I'm not leaving without you.
What's wrong.
Nothing is wrong. Everything is the way it has to be. In my left coat pocket is a packet. Passports, hotel reservations, tickets.
Take the airport subway, but change at Jordan Station for Kowloon Tong.
But
It's only ninety seconds up the line. You're on a connection to a trans Siberian express.
What about you?
You have the right to remain silent. But anything you say may be taken down in evidence and used against you
My god
You're a cop.
Both sides of the street, I'm afraid.
He looks familiar.
That would be Thibadeaux. The cop I work for every now and then. Catching thieves. The really good onesthe ones who imitate me.
They've been on to you all along. Knew you had a big job going.
You gave them the eight billion.
You mean the seven billion.
Where were you? I called at 4:30 this morning.
There are times when you don't answer the phone.
You didn't answer the beeper either.
I hardly knew the guy. Why be impolite to strangers?
I don't recall authorizing you to have a personal life.
I don't recall asking your permission.
A thief this good could handle the sensors in the rooms. What we don't get is how he effectuated his entry.
Through a window.
The windows don't open.
Entry through the doors or vents triggers instant alarm.
So he popped the pane?
Bingo.
That's great if you're a computer. In the real world that pane weighs 200 pounds. The building's 600 feet high.
He unscrewed the bolts, reset them on rollers, then slid the whole frame away. No more effort than it takes to vacuum a floor.
Interesting theory. Where's the proof?
You ordering chop suey again?
Let a thousand flowers bloom. Chairman Mao.
Meaning
Meaning no one arranges calalilies like that. He left the window open when he came in. His only mistake.
And the draft blew over the flowers.
Put the bolts on that window under a scope, I'm betting you'll find wrench scratches on them.
Mac's signature.
Give me a break. Remember Manzini? When he stole Montezuma's scepter he left a Pepto Bismal bottle. The best ones always copy Mac.
You're saying the thief wants us to think it's Mac but it's really not.
Exactly.
They've never caught him before, what makes you think they'll catch him now?
You got a better idea?
Yeah. Me.
We've got to catch him in the act.
Why didn't I think of that?
It's not the thinking of it, it's the doing it.
With that computernobody better. Out there...it's different. You twisted your ankle stepping over a curb on Madison Avenue.
I've been following this guy for years. I'm your best shot.
How would you approach him? Hello, Mr. MacDougal, I'm Gin, would you steal a painting with me?
I'd need an introduction. From someone he trusts. Someone who owes us a favor.
That's doable.
And a target guaranteed to catch his interest.
Which you have in mind.
You don't call, you don't write.
This was my first excuse to get away. I can't exactly use my cell phone.
Yeah yeah yeah. What's the status?
We're getting close.
How close?
I don't know, but close.
This is dangerous. I'm sending backup.
You, want to blow the whole thing, go right ahead.
Don't overestimate yourself.
Look, trust me. I know what I'm doing.
Where are you at least?
I'll send you a postcard. Got to go.
Gin? Where the hell are you?
I'm in the middle.
In the middle? You've got the Mask, why don't we have him?
He's on to something bigger.
Listen to me. Whatever you're doing, stop. Pull out.
Too late now.
Tell me where you are, or just leave the line open so I can trace you.
I'm going to get him, I promise you.
What about your rank or serial number?
No. I think I was a pilot. I was found near the wreckage of a plane by the Bedouin. I was with them for some time.
Am I being interrogated? You should be trying to trick me. Ask me about Tottenham Hotspur. Or Buckingham Palace. About Marmite  I was addicted. Or make me speak German, which I can, by the way.
Why? Are you German?
No.
How do you know you're not German if you don't remember anything?
You tell me. I remember a lot of things. I remember a garden, plunging down to the sea  the Devil's Chimney we called it  and there was a cottage at the bottom, right on the shore, nothing between you and France.
This was your garden?
Or my wife's.
Then you were married?
I think so. Although I believe that to be true of a number of Germans. Might I have a glass of water?
Brick platform opposite the old AjaibGher 
 The Wonder House comma as the natives called the Lahore Museum.
It's still there, the cannon, outside the museum. It was made of metal cups and bowls taken from every household in the city as tax, then melted down. Then later they fired the cannon at my people  comma  The natives.
So what do you really object to  the writer or what he's writing about?
What I really object to, Uncle, is your finishing all my condensed milk. And the message everywhere in your book  however slowly I read it  that the best destiny for India is to be ruled by the British.
Hana, we have discovered a shared please  the boy and I.
This is wonderful!
What's he saying?
Kip?
I looked up to you, Uncle. My brother always said I was a fool. Never trust the British, he said: the dealmakers, the mapmakers; never shake hands with them.
What are you talking about?
What have I been doing all this time? Do you know how many mines I've seen?  more mines than there are soldiers, more  how many mines we've put in the ground ourselves, stuffed in corpses, dropped out of the sky. And now this.
They're excited! They're happy about destroying a whole city. Would they do that to a White Man's City? Never!
Go on, do it. I don't need to hear any more.
Katharine!
Coming. I can't sleep. I woke up shouting in the middle of the night. Geoffrey thinks it's the thing in the desert, the trauma.
You should sit down, darling. She's quite all right. Are you pregnant?
I don't think so.
How romantic. With Fiona I fell over every five minutes. Ronnie Christened me Lady Downfall.
I think I might go inside and sit down for a few minutes.
I'll come with you.
No, please. I shall be absolutely fine. They pass Almsy, who doesn't look up from his book.
Your book. Your Herodotus! Almsy looks uncomfortable.
It doesn't matter. Really. I think I can muddle through. Okay  The Story of Candaules and Gyges. King Candaules was passionately in love with his wife  One day he said to Gyges, the son of somebody, anyway  his favorite warrior 
Mrs. Clifton, you'll have to forgive us. We're not accustomed to the company of women.
Not at all. I was thoroughly enjoying by book. Please. Signor D'Agostino, Herr Bermann.
I'm afraid we're not having much luck obtaining funds for the expedition.
How awful. What will you do?
A more modest expedition, or even wait a year. Remind our families we still exist.
Darling, Peter says I could stay
Why not?
Certainly not.
I insist. There clearly isn't room for us all, I'm the least able to dig, and I'm not one of the walking wounded. Those are facts. Besides, if I remain it's the most effective method of persuading my husband to abandon whatever he's doing and rescue us. It's hard to argue with this logic.
Hey! Hey! Stop! Hey!
Don't move! Stand ABSOLUTELY STILL! Hana stops.
What's happening? Am I needed?
I'm afraid so, sir. Kip hurries to his tent. Hana follows him.
You've got to cut, sir, that frost won't last.
Go away.
Yessir.
This is making me incredibly angry.
Whoa  give me a chance!
Sorry. I took a Benzedrine.
I've got a surprise. A boat! We can go to Capri. It's got a cabin, it's private.
I'd like to spend a night with you in a bed.
We can do that when we're very, very old.
You've got a mustache.
A bit of one.
I was looking forward to this evening.
I had a hotel room.
I thought that was for when we were very very old?
I'm feeling old.
Hello.
Hello miss.
I was going to say  if you want to eat with us, ever you and Lieutenant Singh
Very kind of you, we can always eat in the town with the others 
Since Caravaggio turned up  food seems to appear, so please.
I'll ask the Lieutenant. But thank you.
You saved my life. I haven't forgotten. I thought you were very very tall. You seemed to big  a Giant  and I felt like a child who can't keep her balance.
A toddler
I was looking for the Lieutenant Singh.
He's sleeping.
Only we have to go to work.
I'll tell him. What is it? Is it a mine?
A bomb. At the Viaduct. She closes the door, then reappears.
Does he have to go?
Pardon me?
What if you couldn't find him? Sergeant, not today, please. Not this morning.
The war's over  you told me yourself. How can it be desertion?
It's not over everywhere. I didn't mean literally.
When he dies I'll catch up.
It's not safe here. The whole country's crawling with Bandits and Germans and God knows what. It's madness. I can't allow it. You're not, this is natural  it's shock. For all of us. Hana 
I need morphine. A lot. And a pistol.
And what if he really is a spy?
He can't even move.
If anything happened to you I'd never forgive myself.
Why Picton?
He's from there  edge of Lake Ontario right, Soldier?
Third Canadian Fusiliers.
Does he know a Captain McGann? The boy hears this, whispers to Oliver.
He's gone, hasn't he?
No. He's  no.
Oh God. Oh God.
Excuse me. Yes? I don't have the key to that door.
The Germans were here. The Germans were all over this area. They left mines everywhere. Pianos were their favorite hiding places.
I see. Then may be you're safe as long as you only play Bach. He's German. Kip is looking around the piano. Hana giggles.
Is something funny?
No, but, no, not at all. I'm sorry. You came to the doors, that's all and   such good manners for someone worried about mines. That's all.
I've met you before.
I don't think so.
Try this. I found a great jar of it. Olive oil. In Naples this was so precious it would have bought you a wife.
Thank you.
For my hair?
Yes, for your hair.
I'll get another tin. Hana and the Patient are alone.
I didn't like that book either. It's all about men. Too many men. Just like this house.
It's okay  I'll help. Please.
The mines, the wires, there's a trick. Some explode if you stretch the wires, some if you cut them.
What do I do?
There's a mine here, but the others are far enough away, I think at least to give me a chance. I have to work out which one to cut before I fall over.
So I follow the wires?
You get Hardy.
I follow the wires.
Why would anyone do this?
I've done this. I've had to do this.
What is this business with you and explosives? Do you think you're immune?
I promise you that was the right thing to do. He's my good luck. Now cut. This one. I hope we don't die.
Okay. Get away from here. Quick.
I'm not scared. So many people have died around me. But I would be a shame for us. I don't feel like being shy.
You must get away. Before I cut. I'm not cutting if you're here. He's struggling. He's going to topple over if he cuts.
Actually, you can't cut, can you? You'll fall over. Give me the pliers.
No. But he hands them over.
Kiss me. Before I cut. Just in case.
Don't talk. Check again. Lie flat and then cut.
Don't go. I'm frightened. I can love a coward, I can't love another dead man.
This is what I do. I do this every day.
Kip  come and dance with me
Yes. Later.
I was thinking yesterday  yesterday!  the Patient, Hardy: they're everything that's good about England. I couldn't even say what that was. We didn't exchange two personal words, and we've been together through some terrible things, some  he was engaged to a girl in the village!  I mean  and us  he never once He didn't ask me if I could spin the ball at cricket or the kamasutra or  I don't even know what I'm talking about.
You loved him.
If one night I didn't come to the tent, what would you do?
I try not to expect you.
But if it got late and I hadn't shown up?
Then I'd think there must be a reason.
You wouldn't come to find me? That makes me never want to come here. But she continues unraveling the turban.
What are you up to?
That gun at Lahor, Kipling's cannon  Zamzammah  remember? That was made out of the metal of ordinary things. I want to make an ordinary thing out of guns. His bayonet is thrust into the forge. It's red hot.
When I went to England I was amazed at what went on, the waste  I'd been taught to reuse everything, the dung from a cow to cool a radiator, a fork to fix a typewriter  India could live for a hundred years on what I saw thrown away.
I should go to the house, get breakfast.
The lamp was burning all night in his room. Caravaggio was there with him.
This is hot!
Nyanyanya!
Will you come with me?
Of course. When?
I mean home. India.
Kip I 
I know  here I am always a brown man, there you would be always a white woman.
Is that what you think? Is that what you think I think?
It's what I've learned.
I'm thinking about your heart, not your skin. And how to reach it. And that I don't think I can. A bomb has ruined us, just not the bomb I thought would ruin us.
I've clung to you. I've clung to you. Kip. Life a raft.
Then come with me.
I'll always go back to that church. Look at my painting.
I'll always go back to that church.
So one day we'll meet.
There's meant to be lace in the next village  the boys are taking me.
I'm not sewing anything else.
You don't have any money, do you? Just in case there's silk.
No!
Hana, I know you do!
I'm not sewing anything else for you!
I love you.
Where's your Stuart from? Somewhere near there, isn't it?
HANA +++$+++
There was a Prince, who was dying, and he was carried up the tower at Pisa so he could die with a view of the Tuscan Hills. Am I that Prince? Hana laughs.
Because you're leaning? No, you're just on an angle. You're too heavy!
What was all the banging? Were you fighting rats or the entire German army?
I was repairing the stairs. I found a library and the books were very useful.
Before you find too many uses for these books would you read some to me?
I think they're all in Italian, but I'll look, yes. What about your own book?
My book? The Herodotus? Yes, we can read him.
Oh  I've found plums. We have plums in the orchard. We have an orchard! She has peeled a plum and now slips it into his mouth.
Thank you.
I will hide you in the room where we sleep, said Candaules. She stumbles over the word.
Candaules
Candaulesyou're laughing at me.
I'm not laughing at you. Go on, please.
When my wife comes to lie down she always lays her garments one by one on a seat near the entrance of the room, and from where you stand you will be able to gaze on her at your leisure
Are you asleep?
Yes. Dropping off.
I should try and move your bed. I want you to be able to see the view. It's good, it's a view from a monastery.
I can already see.
How? How can you see anything?
Not the window  I can't bear the light anyway  no, I can see all the way to the desert. I've found the lost fossils.
I'm turning you.
Zerzura, the White City of Acacias, the Oasis of Little Birds. As me about the scent of acacia  it's in this room. I can smell it. The taste of tea so black it falls into your mouth. I can taste it. I'm chewing the mint. Is there sand in my eyes? Are you cleaning sand from my ears?
No sand. That's your drugs speaking.
I can see my wife in that view.
Are you remembering more?
Could I have a cigarette?
Are you crazy?
Why are you so determined to keep me alive?
Because I'm a nurse.
There's a man downstairs. He brought us eggs. He might stay.
Why? Can he lay eggs?
He's Canadian.
Why are people always so happy when they collide with someone from the same place? What happened in Montreal when you passed a man in the street  did you invite him to live with you?
He needn't disturb you.
Me? He can't. I'm already disturbed.
He won't disturb us then. I think he's after morphine. There's a war. Where you come from becomes important. And besides  we're vulnerable here. I keep hearing noises in the night. Voices.
Excuse me 
Yes?
Can I ask  my friend, can he come in? Just for a few minutes?
Your friend?
He's going back to the front this evening. I can't see him otherwise.
Just go off. I'll be quite all right.
No, I can't go, but if it, if you weren't offended, it would be very good of you to allow us  every other cabin is crammed. This is as private as we'll get.
Well then  yes. Of course.
Thank you. Thank you.
This is Captain McGann.
Please, don't waste your time on pleasantries 
Something smells so rich. My stomach is heaving 
He came back, he says he caught a rabbit. I'm cooking it.
That's a different dress.
He keeps asking me questions about you. Do you know him? Do you recognize him?
Do I recognize him? I recognize what he is. I like him. He's Canadian. He can read Italian. He can catch rabbits.
Could I ask you to move? I'm sorry  but when you turn, the sheets, I can't really bear the sheets moving over me. Sorry.
Yes, of course, I'm so sorry. Stupid of me. Hana gets up, upset to have hurt him.
Tell me about this, this is in your handwriting  December 22nd  Betrayals in war are childlike compared with our betrayals during peace. New lovers are nervous and tender, but smash everything  for the heart is an organ of fire I love that, I believe that. Who is K?
K is for Katharine.
He wants us to move out, says there could be fifty more mines in the building. He thinks I'm mad because I laughed at him. He's Indian, he wears a turban.
Sikh. If he wears a turban, he's a Sikh.
I'll probably marry him.
Really? That's sudden.
My mother always told me I would summon my husband by playing the piano.
I liked it better when there were just the two of us.
Why? Is he staying?
With his Sergeant. A Mr. Hardy.
We should charge! Doesn't anyone have a job to do?
They have to clear all the local roads of mines. That's a big job. They won't stay in the house. They're putting up their tent in the garden.
In that case, I suppose we can't charge.
Good morning. Did you know that? You're always singing?
I've been told that before.
Kip's another one.
Arguing about books.
Condensed milk  one of the truly great inventions.
You like him, don't you? Your voice changes.
I don't think it does. Anyway, he's indifferent to me.
I don't think it's indifference.
Hana was just telling me that you were indifferent 
Hey! 
 to her cooking.
I'm still here.
You'd better be.
Don't depend on it. Will you? That little bit of air, each day there's less of it, which is al right, which is quite all right.
Why don't you go? You should sleep.
Would you like me to?
Who knows the Bosphorus Hug?
Never heard of it.
That was a dance we invented at the International Sand Club.
Marvelous plane. Did you look?
Isn't it? Wedding present from Katharine's parents. I'm calling it Rupert Bear. Hello. Geoffrey Clifton.
We can finally consign my old bird to the scrapheap. Almsy smiles and walks on towards the others.
I think you know all of us, except for Geoffrey and Katharine Clifton, who've recently come out from England.
Apprentices.
This is Clive FenelonBarnes.
Of course. Well, we should all go out onto the terrace.
Oh no, really. She has her book.
I won't hear of it. None of us will.
Good heavens, are you married, Madox?
Very much so. We are all, save my friend here.
And a special thank you to Geoffrey and Katharine, without whose fund raising heroics we should still be kicking our heels. They toast the Cliftons.
To armtwisting.
Did Katharine say?  Geoffrey has to fly back to Cairo.
Have to return the favor  take a few photographs for the army.
But then the Queen looked up and saw Gyges concealed in the shadows. And though she said nothing, she shuddered. The next day she sent for Gyges and challenged him. And hearing his story, she said this 
Off with his head!
The team is in mourning, darling.
Oh really?
I was just saying, I'm going to cable Downing Street, see if I can't stir up a few shillings  Katharine's mother and the PM's wife are best 
Darling, for goodness' sake!
Well, she is!
Why do you think? About my staying?
Well look, if nobody minds, truly, then I suppose  I shall, of course, be bereft
Oh.
But finally able to explore the Cairo nightlife. I shall produce an authoritative guide to the Zinc Bars and  I want to say Harems  am I in the right country for Harems?
Darling, I just heard. You poor sausage, are you all right?
I'm fine. I got hot.
Lady H said she thought you might be 
I'm not pregnant. I'm hot. I'm too hot.
Right.
Aren't you?
Sweltering. Come on, I'll take you home.
Can't we really go home? I can't breathe. Aren't you dying for green, anything green, or rain, wouldn't you die to feel rain on your face? It's Christmas and it's all  I don't know  if you asked me I'd go home tomorrow. If you wanted.
Sweetheart, you know we can't go home, there might be a war.
Geoffrey, you do so love putting on a disguise.
I do so love you. What do you smell of?
What?
Marzipan! I think you've got marzipan in your hair. No wonder you're homesick.
Hello.
Finally! So you're our Canadian pickpocket?
Thief, I think, is more accurate.
I understand you were in Africa. Whereabouts?
Oh, all over.
All over? I kept trying to cover a very modest portion and still failed. Are you leaving us? Now's our opportunity to swap war wounds.
I think anybody she ever loves tends to die on her.
Are you planning to be the exception?
Me? You've got the wrong end of the stick, old boy. So  Caravaggio  Hana thinks you invented your name.
And you've forgotten yours.
I told her you would never invent such a preposterous name.
I told her you can forget everything but you never forget your name.
Are you outside? A beat and then Caravaggio shuffles in. Like an old boxer.
I can't hide anymore. I breathe like a dog. I lose my balance. Stealing's got harder. Caravaggio stares at the Herodotus.
Why do I feel if I had your book I would know everything?
I don't even know if it is my book. The Bedouin found it in the plane, in the wreckage. It's mine now. I heard your breathing and thought it might be rain. I'm dying for rain  of course I'm dying anyway  but I long to feel rain on my face.
Is it you? If I said Moose I look different, fuck, why shouldn't you?
Moose.
First wedding anniversary  what do you call it?
I don't know. Paper. Is it? Paper? I don't remember.
Thought you'd never wake up!
What? Hana comes in, sleepily, frowns at the gramophone.
Irving Berlin.
For?
Top Hat.
Is there a song you don't know?
Have a drink.
I've had a drink. Fatal.
Well, anything you do is likely to be fatal, so you know 
Very true!
What? You and Madox? Or you and Katharine Clifton?
What?
Hana tells me you're leaving.
There are going to be trials, they want me to interpret, don't they know I'm allergic to courtrooms?
We shall miss you.
So, I come across the Hospital Convoy I was looking for this stuff, and some nurse, Mary, Hana's friend, tells me about you and Hana, hiding in a monastery, in purdah, whatever it is  retreat  how you'd come in from the Desert and you were burned and you didn't know your name but you knew the words to every song there was and you had one possession   a copy of Herodotus  and it was full of letters and cuttings, and then I knew it must be you.
Me?
I'd seen you writing in that book. At the Embassy in Cairo, when I had thumbs and you had a face. And a name.
I see.
Before you went over to the Germans, before you got Rommel's spy across the desert and inside British headquarters. He took some pretty good photographs  I saw mine in that torture room in Tobruk, so they made an impression.
And you thought you'd come and settle the score?
You were the only man who knew the desert well enough, the only man who would cross seventeen hundred miles of nothing.
I had to get back to the desert. I made a promise. The rest meant nothing to me.
What did you say?
The rest meant nothing to me.
There was a result to what you did. It wasn't just another expedition. It did this. If the British hadn't unearthed your nosey photographer in Cairo thousands of people could have died.
Thousands of people did die, just different people.
But you were among the British, they were your friends  why betray them?
Is that what you thought? That I betrayed the British? The British betrayed me. The British betrayed me.
And did you never see Katharine? You never got back to the Cave?
Yes, I got back there finally to keep my promise. To come back for her. And then of course I couldn't I couldn't even do that properly.
You get to the morning and the poison leaks away, doesn't it? Black nights, fucking black nights, when you want to howl like a dog. I thought I would kill you. You killed my friends, you ruined my hands. But the girl was always here, like some Guardian Angel.
You can't kill me. I died years ago.
No, now I can't kill you.
Buon' Giorno! Hana turns, startled and suspicious.
Are you Hana?
What do you want?
I met your friend Mary. She said I should stop and see if you were okay. Apparently we're neighbors  my house is two blocks from yours in Montreal. Cabot, north of Laurier. Bonjour.
Bonjour.
They're fresh. I haven't eaten an egg inhave you noticed there are chickens? You get chickens in Italy but no eggs. In Africa there were always eggs, but never chickens. Who separates them?
You were in Africa?
Yeah, for a while.
So was my Patient.
I'd like to stay. That's the long and short of it. I mean, you know blahblah if it's convenient, if there's room blahblahblah. I have to do some work here I speak the language. There are Partisans to be  we embrace them and see if we can relieve them of their weapons, you know  while we hug. I was a thief, so they think I'd be good at that.
So you can shoot a pistol?
No.
If you said yes I would have had a reason. You should let me redress those bandages. Before you go.
I'm okay. Look, it's a big house. We needn't disturb each other. I can shoot a pistol! I'll sleep in the stables. I don't care where I sleep. I don't sleep.
Because we're fine here. I don't know what Mary told you about me, but I don't need company, I don't need to be looked at.
Fine. I'm not looking.
Supper. Hana calls after him.
Where've you been?
Rabbit hunting.
I could help you. I could get you off that.
Can you cook the rabbit or will you try and bring that back to life?
It's a week. We didn't know where you were  or if you coming back, or 
You should be happy. What were you going to do for him when it ran out? He pulls out more phials from his jacket.
What do you do? What are you doing here?
Some gave me a dress. You know what's great? What I'm learning? You win a war and you not only gain the miles you get the moral ground. Everywhere I go, we're in the right. I like that.
Hana? Hana? Are you alright?
Don't touch me if you're going to try and fuck me.
I'll have some of your water. It's hot.
You have to protect yourself from sadness. This is the thing I've learned. You're in love with him, aren't you? Your patient. Do you think he's a saint or something? Because of the way he looks? I don't think he is.
I'm not in love with him. I'm in love with ghosts. And so is he. He's in love with ghosts.
Who are his ghosts?
Ask him.
What if I told you he did this to me?
What? How could he have? When?
I'm one of his ghosts and he wouldn't even know. It's like he slammed a door in Cairo and it trapped my fucking hands in Tobruk.
I don't know what that means.
Ask him. Ask your saint who he is. Ask him who he's killed.
Please don't creep around this house.
Where did you find that?
I liberated it.
I think that's called looting.
Noone should own music. The real question is who wrote the song?
Well, then ask him his name!
What's happened? Kip! What's happening? Don't shoot, please, don't shoot anybody.
Buon' giorno.
She can take you as far as Florence.
I can get in the back.
David Caravaggio.
No.
Petty thief, six months imprisonment Kingston Penitentiary, 1937.
I keep explaining. You've got the wrong man. My name is Bellini  Antonio Bellini. Bellini, Caravaggio, both painters, I think that is confusing you.
Is this you?
I don't know.
It is you. This was taken in Cairo at British Headquarters  July 41. And so was this  August 41. And this February 42.
It's impossible. I was buying or selling something. I've been to Cairo many times.
You are a Canadian spy working for the Allies. Codename Moose.
Yes, I've been asking for weeks, a month, I don't know, also my leg was 
We don't have a doctor, but we do have a nurse.
A nurse? Well, sure, a nurse is great. A nurse? Great.
Why is there so much nose? I can't hear myself think! Look  give me something. So we can all get out of this room. A name. A code. It's too hot.
I slept with the girl. I've got a wife in Tripoli. A girl comes up and points at you, you only see trouble.
Well, you must know. You were brought up Libya, yes?
Don't cut me.
Or was it Toronto?
Don't cut me. Come on.
Go! Hey! Go! Caravaggio is in terror.
Oh Jesus. Oh Jesus Christ.
How are you?
Okay.
Your leg will be fine. A lot of shrapnel came out  I saved you the pieces.
You're the prettiest girl I ever saw.
No, I'll get you some tea. Wait till you're in Naples. You'll find a girl there.
Just kiss me. It would mean such a lot to me.
Would it? She kisses him, very softly, on the lips.
Thank you.
Hey! Hey! Stop this jeep! Let me out of here  there's a woman dying, there's a woman dying while I'm  Hey!
Shutup!
Please  I beg you, I beg you, I beg you, please listen to me, this is a terrible mistake. Just stop, please, and listen to me. My wife is dying.
Listen, Fritz, if I have to listen to another word from you I'll give you a fucking good hiding.
Fritz? What are you talking about? Who's Fritz?
That's your name innit? Count Fucking Arsehole Von Bismarck? What's that supposed to be then, Irish?
What did you think you were doing in his tent?
Looking for the fossils. Why should we wait until we're in London? This girl was probably twelve years old.
You shouldn't go into another man's tent. It's inexcusable.
Her hands and feet were tied.
What did you do?
I looked at them. They're shrubs, small trees. Exquisite. And fossilized, rock hard. He walks away to the nose of the plane.
I was talking about the girl.
Cut the ropes. I left a note, on his blanket. At the next Geographical Society I shall await with great interest the announcement of the FenelonBarnes Slave Knot. The Girl wouldn't leave, of course. Her father had sold her for a camel. He turns over the propeller, the engine cranks up.
I'll be back as quick as I can. Thirtysix hours at the outside.
Try to get a second radiator, we'll bury it between here and the Pottery Hill. And a better jack. We planned badly.
Bermann!
And I'm telling you there's nothing there to explore.
No, because you can't see from the air! If you could explore from the air life would be very simple! Look! What is that? Is that a wadi? That whole spur is a real possibility
Which we've overflown twice.
Which we couldn't explore because of rocks, because of crosswinds, it's sloppy. And here  and here  we could be staring at Zerzura.
And where are the Expedition Maps?
In my room.
Those maps belong to His Majesty's Government. They're confidential. They shouldn't be left lying around for any Tom, Dick or Mary to have sight of.
What's the matter with you?
Don't be so bloody nave. You know there's a war breaking out. This arrived this morning. By order of the British Government  all International Expeditions to be aborted by May 1939.
Why do they care about our maps?
What do we find in the desert? Arrow heads, spears. In a war, if you own the desert, you own North Africa.
Own the desert.
I believe I'm rather late.
Good, we're all here? A toast, to the International Sand club  may it soon resurface.
Look, either shut up, or go home.
Absolutely right, shut up. Lashings of apologies all round.
Had a letter from my wife. The wisteria is still out, which I'm looking forward to. She says Dorset is gripped with Invasion Fever. Wrong coast I should have thought, still
Right.
Bermann thinks he'll be interned, poor fellow. I'm going to do what I can, but And D'Ag turns out to be a great admirer of Mussolini. So now you can say I told you so.
I told you so.
We didn't care about countries. Did we? Brits, Arabs, Hungarians, Germans. None of that mattered, did it? It was something finer than that.
Yes. It was. Thanks for the compass. I'll look after it for you.
When's Clifton picking you up?
Tomorrow afternoon. Don't worry. I'll be ready.
I'll leave the plane in the hangar at Kufra Oasis. So if you need ithard to know how long one's talking about. We might all be back in a month or two.
I have to teach myself not to read too much into everything. Comes of too long having to read so much into hardly anything at all.
Goodbye, my friend. They shake hands.
May God make safety your companion.
There is no God. But I hope someone looks after you.
Good morning!
Could I trouble you for some water?
Yes, of course. So, golly, where have you come from?
I desperately need a jeep. There's been an accident.
I see.
No, I'm not thinking clearly  I need a doctor too, to come with me, can I take this vehicle? I'll pay, of course  and some morphine and Seventy miles  I can be back here by dusk.
Do you have your papers, sir?
What?
If I could just see some identification.
Am I not talking sense?  forgive me, I'm, I've been walking, I've  there's a woman badly injured at Gilf Kebir, in the Cave of Swimmers. I am a member of the Royal Geographical Society.
Right. And what's your name, sir?
Count Laszlo de Almsy. The Officer is writing this down. A glance at his Corporal.
Almsy  would you mind just spelling that for me? What nationality would that be?
Look, listen to me. A woman is dying  my wife!  is dying seventy miles from here. I have been walking for three days! I don't want to spell my name, I want you to give me this jeep!
I understand you are agitated  perhaps you would like to sit down while I radio back to HQ 
No! NO! Don't radio anybody, just give me the fucking jeep!
A broken car?
Still a car.
Uxoriousness  that's my favorite kind of love. Excessive love of one's wife.
There you have me.
What kind of photographs?
Portraits. The Brigadier, the Brigadier's wife, the Brigadier's dogs, the Brigadier at the Pyramids, the Brigadier breathing.
Safe journey.
You too. Good luck!
Clifton  your wife  do you think it's appropriate to leave her?
Appropriate?
I think the desert is, it's  for a woman  it's very tough, I wonder if it's not too much for her.
Are you mad? Katharine loves it here. She told me yesterday.
All the same, I, were I you I would be concerned 
I've known Katharine since she was three, my aunt is her aunt, we were practically brother and sister before we were man and wife. I think I'd know what is and what isn't too much for her. I think she's know herself.
Very well.
Why are you people so threatened by a woman?!
Have you seen Katharine?
What?
It's Geoffrey under this.
I haven't, no. Sorry.
Oops! Mustn't say International. Dirty word. Filthy word. His Majesty! Die Fhrer! Il Duce.
Sorry, what's your point?
And the people here don't want us. Are you kidding? The Egyptians are desperate to get rid of the Colonials  isn't that right? Their best people get down on hands and knees begging to be spared a knighthood. Isn't that right?
Thank you.
I wanted to meet a man who could write such a long paper with so few adjectives.
A thing is still a thing no matter what you place in front of it. Big car, slow car, chauffeurdriven car, still a car.
Isn't Zerzura supposed to be protected by spirits who take on the shape of sandstorms?
What kind of fossils?
I can't sing. but I can tell a story. I might need a prompt. Do you have your Herodotus? I've noticed you carry it
I'm sorry  what have you noticed?
Daskylus
Yes, thank you, Gyges, son of Daskylus  Candaules said to him I don't think you believe me when I tell you how beautiful my wife is. And although Gyges replied he did find the Queen magnificent the King insisted he would find some way to prove beyond dispute that she was fairest of all women. Do you all know this story?
How much did you pay?
Hello! Good morning.
They don't see foreign women in this market. How much did you pay?
Seven pounds, eight, I suppose. Why?
Which stall?
Excuse me?
You've been cheated, don't worry, we'll take it back.
I don't want to go back.
This is not worth eight pounds, Mrs. Clifton.
I don't care to bargain.
That insults them.
I don't believe that. I think you are insulted by me, somehow. You're a foreigner too, aren't you, here, in this market?
I should be very happy to obtain the correct price for this. I apologize if I appear abrupt. I am rusty at social graces. How do you find Cairo? Did you visit the Pyramids?
Excuse me.
Why did you follow me yesterday?
Excuse me?
After the market, you followed me to the hotel.
I was concerned. As I said, women in that part of Cairo, a European women, I felt obliged to.
You felt obliged to.
As the wife of one of our party.
So why follow me? Escort me, by all means. Following me is predatory, isn't it?
This is an incredible story  about a man hunting an Ostrich, he's been telling me about Zerzura, he thinks he's been there, but his map, the route he's describing, he couldn't survive the journey now, but he's a poet, so his map is poetry  and now we're onto an Ostrich. I'm telling her your map is poetry. The Arab shrugs.
What do you mean, poetry?
A mountain curved like a woman's back, a plateau the shape of an ear.
Sounds perfectly clear. Where does the Ostrich come in?
The Ostrich is a detour. A poor man hunts an ostrich, it's the method. Nothing to do with Zerzura. To catch an ostrich you must appear not to move. The man finds a place where the ostrich feeds, a wadi, and stands where the ostrich can see him, on the horizon, and doesn't move, doesn't eat  otherwise the ostrich will run. At nightfall, he moves, fifty, sixty yards. When the ostrich comes the next day, the man is there, but he's nearer. Haunting the ostrich.
What is he saying? Come on, what did he say?
He said  be careful.
Be careful? You mean you  or me? Who?
Her or me?
Actually, you sing.
Pardon?
You sing. All the time.
I do not.
Ask Al Auf. Almsy asks Al Auf in Arabic.
What's this?
I thought you might paste them into your book.
We took several photographs, there's no need.
I'd like you to have them.
There's really no need. This is just a scrapbook. I should feel obliged. Thank you.
And that would be unconscionable, I suppose, to feel any obligation? Yes. Of course it would.
You should come into the shelter.
I'm quite all right, thank you.
Look over there.
What am I looking at?
See what's happening to them  the stars.
They're so untidy. I'm just trying to rearrange them.
In an hour there will be no stars. The air is filling with sand.
This is not very good, is it?
No.
Shall we be all right?
Yes. Absolutely.
Yes is a comfort. Absolutely is not.
 there is the Harmattan, a red wind. Which Mariners called the sea of darkness. Red sand from this wind has flown as far as the south coast of England, producing showers so dense they were mistaken for blood. Almasy checks to see if Katharine is still awake.
Fiction. We had a house on that coast and it never rained blood. Go on. More.
All true. Herodotus, your friend, tells of a wind  the Simoon  so evil that a nation declared war on it and marched out to fight it in full battle dress, their swords raised.
Madox will have calculated how many miles, they'll soon turn around.
Oh my God, the others!
Could I ask you, please, to paste you paintings into my book? I should like to have them. I should be honored.
Of course. Is it, am I a terrible coward to ask how much water we have?
Water? Yes, we have water, we have a little in our can, we have water in the radiator which can be drunk. Not at all cowardly, extremely practical. Come on, come on! There's also a plant  I've never seen it but I'm told you can cut a piece the size of a heart from this plant and the next day it will be filled with a delicious liquid.
Find that plant. Cut out its heart.
Geoffrey's not in Cairo. He's not actually a buffoon. And the plane wasn't a wedding present. It belongs to the British Government. They want aerial maps of the whole North Africa. So I think he's in Ethiopia. In case you were counting on his sudden appearance.
And the marriage  is that a fiction?
No, the marriage isn't a fiction.
Do they know them?
No, but I think I do.
Will you not come in?
No.
Will you please come in?
Mrs. Clifton  Katharine turns, disgusted.
Don't.
I believe you still have my book.
I'm impressed you can sew.
Good.
You sew very badly.
You don't sew at all!
A woman should never learn to sew, and if she can she should never admit to it. Close your eyes.
That makes it harder still.
When were you most happy?
Now.
When were you least happy?
Now.
Okay. And what do you love? Say everything.
What do I love? I love rice pudding, and water, the fish in it, hedgehogs! The gardens at our house in Freshwater  all my secret paths.
What else?
Marmite  addicted! Baths  not with other people! Islands. Your handwriting. I could go on all day. My husband. Almsy nods.
What do you hate most?
A lie. What do you hate most?
Ownership. Being owned. When you leave, you should forget me.
Say you're sick.
What? No!
Say you're feeling faint  the sun.
No.
I can't work. I can't sleep. Lady Hampton calls impatiently.
I can still taste you.
This is empty, just coming!
I'm trying to write with your taste in my mouth. Swoon. I'll catch you.
This is  what is this?
It's a folk song.
Arabic?
No, no, it's Hungarian. My daijka sang it to me.
It's beautiful. What's it about?
It's a long song  Szerelem means loveand the story  there's a Hungarian Count, he's a wanderer, a fool. For years he's on some kind of quest, who knows what? And then one day he falls under the spell of a mysterious English woman  a harpy  who beats him and hits him and he becomes her slave. He sews her clothes, he worships the hem of 
Ouch! See  you're always beating me..!
You bastard, I was believing you!
This  what's it called?  this place, I love it  this is mine! I'm asking the King permission to call it the Almasy Bosphorous.
I thought we were against ownership? I can stay tonight.
Madox knows, I think. He's tried to warn me. He keeps talking about Anna Karenina. I think it's his idea of a mantoman chat. Its my idea of a mantoman chat.
This is a different world  is what I tell myself. A different life. And here I am a different wife.
Yes. A different wife.
I don't care to bargain. It's full of saffron, just in case you think I'm giving it to you to encourage your sewing.
That day, had you followed me to the market?
Of course. You didn't need to slap my face to make me feel as if you'd slapped my face.
Shall we be all right?
Yes. Yes. Absolutely.
I'd better get back. Say goodbye here.
I'm not agreeing. Don't think I'm agreeing, because I'm not.
I just know  any minute he'll find out, we'll barge into somebody we'll  and it will ill him.
Don't go over it again, please.
I just wanted you to know. I'm not missing you yet. She nods, can't find this funny.
You will. You will.
Why did you hold his collar?
What?
What? What? That boy, that little boy, you were holding his collar, gripping his collar, what for?
Would you let me pass?
Is he next? Do you drag him into your little room? Where is it? Is this it?
Don't do this.
I've watched you  on verandahs, at Garden Parties, at the Races  how can you stand there? How can you ever smile? As if your life hadn't capsized?
You know why? He tries to hold her. She resists
Dance with me.
No.
Dance with me. I want to touch you. I want the things which are mine. Which belong to me.
Do you think you're the only one who feels anything? Is that what you think?
Katharine! Oh dear God, Katharine  what are you doing here?
I can't move. I can't get out.
Why did he bring you?
A surprise, he said.
Please don't move me. It hurts too much.
We've got to get you out of here.
It hurts too much.
I know, darling, I'm sorry.
Why did you hate me?
What?
Don't you know you drove everybody mad?
Don't talk.
You speak so many bloody languages and you never want to talk.
You're wearing the thimble.
Of course. You idiot. I always wear it. I've always worn it. I've always loved you.
It's so cold.
I know. I'm sorry. I'll make a fire. I'll be back.
Don't leave me!
I'm just going to find things for the fire.
Shall we be all right?
Yes. Absolutely.
Oh dear.
Listen to me, Katharine. You've broken your ankle and I'm going to have to try and bind it. I think your wrist might be broken, too  and some ribs, which is why it's hurting you to breathe. I'm going to have to walk to El Taj. Given all the traffic in the desert these days I should bump into one army or another before I reach there  or FenelonBarnes and his camel. And then I'll be back and we'll be fine, and I'll never leave you.
Do you promise? I wouldn't want to die here. I wouldn't want to die in the desert. I've always had a rather elaborate funeral in mind, with particular hymns. Very English. And I know exactly where I want to be buried. In our garden. Where I grew up. With a view of the sea. So promise me you'll come back for you.
I promise I'll come back. I promise I'll never leave you. And there's plenty of water and food. You can have a party.
And a good read. Don't waste it.
Thank you. Will you bury Geoffrey? I know he's dead.
I'm sorry, Katharine.
I know.
Every night I cut out my heart but in the morning it was full again.
Tell me about your garden.
Our Garden, our garden  not so much the garden, but the copse alongside it, wild, a secret way plunging down to the shore and then nothing but water between you and France. The Devil's Chimney it was called  The Devil's Chimney, I don't know why. Darling. My darling.
Yes?
Puffed cheese?
No thank you.
I also have tiny pizzas and mushrooms stuffed with
Do I look like I want a tiny pizza?
No.
Then let's assume I don't.
Yes sir.
Now is that clear?
Yes sir.
We're not stupid, Reynolds.
The fuck do you have goin' on with Sam Albert?
This guy's carrying the <u>flag</u> for the damn terrorism bill. You think this is the best time to piss him off?
You have any idea what kind of position this
He's carrying the damn <u>flag</u>.
It was pulsing on your SAT frequencies.
I don't know what's going on, but if you people have tripped over your own asshole again, you're not gonna get any help from us. It's ending at your doorstep.
Yes?
Federal Express for 'Zavitz'.
Federal Express?
For Daniel Zavitz. I just need a signature.
How'd you get in the building?
The door was open, sir. I just need a signature.
What happened?
He's dead. An accident. Hit by a bus.
What about the tapes?
We found the originals.
The originals?
There was a transfer.
Am I to understand
He never made it to the newspaper, but there was private sector contact.
Who?
Several indiscriminates and one primary who we've ID'd as Robert Dean. A Crystal City attorney. Mr. Reynolds? Sir?
Contact COINTEL. Profile. Assess the threat. Then crosscheck against Zavitz. Redflag the intersects and anything we can exploit. Also NRO. Pull up the keyhole tapes. I need to own him. I need to own him <u>now</u>.
We'd have to
Get it.
He's arrogant and threatening. Voice stress points suggest he's worrying.
Hiding something?
It was in his bag. Now it's not.
Destroy his credibility before he goes public. Neutralize him. I don't want anyone listening to a word he has to say. Tell me about Rachel Banks.
30 minutes ago you said we had him. What in hell's goin' on out there?
He had help.
Help from whom? Christ.
I sit on top of the greatest intelligence gathering organization in human history. Why can't I bring in a man whose name <i>is in the</i> <i><u>fucking</i></u> <i><u>phonebook</i></u>?!
He's clever. He had help.
He's clever? He had help? Oh.
Sir
No, no, I'm sorry. I didn't realize you were hoping to be transferred to a weathership outside Greenland.
I just meant
I don't care if he's Solomon with Saint Joseph sitting in his <u>lap</u>. I want the tape and I want him. Now is
We found two sets of latent prints in the rubble of Brill's studio. One was Dean's. The other, we believe, belongs to Brill.
We believe?
Well...his real name's Edward Lyle.
Lyle?!
Yes sir.
You're kidding me.
No sir.
Dean's with Lyle.
And they have the video. That's confirmed.
So they know everything.
If they've looked at the video.
Oh, let's assume that they have.
If he's with Lyle it means he's got resources.
Resources, that's a good point. He's got resources. All we've got is a <i>sixhundred billion dollar</i> <i>organization!</i> Now god<u>dammit</u>, Hicks, you find 'em. You find 'em and you end it now!
What about
We don't know.
Explain that.
Jones had to flee the scene before we could locate the second body.
What about the tape?
We think it was on Brill. If it was, it's destroyed now.
And if it wasn't?
Found him. Kent Island nailed the call five minutes ago. He's stationary.
Do you have visual?
Not yet. He's near "M" and 34th. I've got an ELSUR unit on the scene now. A residential building. Twelve units.
What's your ETA?
Three minutes. We're going in light. Myself and two others. Everyone else is held back in reserve.
He walked right up to me in church. At the holiest time of the wear. He approached me in a sanctified place. Kill him now.
"I know thy works and thy labour and how thou canst not bear them that are evil. And thou hast tried them who say they are apostles and hast found them to be liars". Revelations II.
What the hell does it mean?
It means who's side are you on?
You didn't ask me to meet you 30 miles from my office for a Bible study class.
It's a bipartisan issue. Everyone needs to swallow hard. No one, including you, wants to be fingered as the one obstructing efforts to crack down on terrorism, and
Fuck you.
What?
I said fuck you.
Is that anyway to talk to an old school chum?
You're gonna finger me as soft on terrorism? <i>Terrorism,</i> you unconscionable asshole?
There are planes falling out of the sky, buildings blowing up. <i>American</i> buildings. <i>Americans</i> getting bombs in the mail. What are we gonna do!?
We're not gonna hand you and your band of lunatics the keys to the kingdom. I'm not gonna sit in Congress and write a law that allows the NSA to point a camera and a microphone at anything they damn well feel like. And the next time you have something to say to me, we do it aboveboard, in my office, like everyone else. Now get outa my car, I've got a committee meeting on the hill.
What's your opinion?
It's hard to say for certain, these things are
I'm not asking you to say for certain. This is what you're trained to do, right?
Yes sir.
Then what's your goddam opinion?
Zavitz had digital compression equipment. He could've downloaded into something. A disk, a chip, anything small enough to put in his pocket and run with. Whatever he put it in, he dropped it in that bag.
Get it.
What is it you want?
Someone's trying to destroy my life, and I'd like to find out who.
Well we'd sure like to help you.
You would?
Yes. But we can't.
Why not?
Because we, and our associates, have paid out hundreds of thousands of dollars to shyster lawyers like you, <u>because</u> of shyster lawyers like you, and we'd just as soon sit back and sip a beer while you get assbanged by as many people as possible.
Dick Burns got a phone call this morning from someone wanting information on you.
The police?
No. He said they were doing a credit check. Are you refinancing a loan?
You remember Daniel Zavitz?
Yeah.
He got hit by a bus.
What does that have to do with you?
I honestly don't know.
Was Zavitz in trouble?
I don't know.
You think there was a connection to
Jesus! I just told you. I don't know.
It's me, Robert Dean. From Seth, Silverberg. I worked on
Bobby
It's been a few years.
Yeah.
I'm just doing some Christmas shopping. It's for my wife, no kidding. Though, this isn't the <i>main</i> present, it's just, you know, a little
I need help.
Tell me about it.
How can I reach you?
Are you okay?
Are you still in Crystal City?
Yeah, what's going on?
They took the espresso machine. The <i>espresso</i> machine, Jerry! Which makes sense, you know, because the crooks probably wanted to make themselves a latte before fencing the stereo.
Did they take your clothes?
No.
You've got a bunch of Armani suits, they didn't take 'em?
No.
Usually they take clothes.
Why don't you give 'em a call.
What about jewelry?
They didn't take the jewelry. They took the computers. They took the bigscreen TV, they took my blender.
The blender?
I love my blender.
They didn't take the silverware?
No, but they took my blender.
Sounds like they didn't want anything that wasn't electric?
What?
They only took electrical appliances.
Serve the ball.
Can I talk to you a second?
Table 122?
That's what I want to talk to you about?
I wrote a check for a thousand dollars. You guys didn't have a table that was in the kitchen?
The Congressman's very happy to have your support, but he's heard that there's an investigation.
An investigation? It was a bus accident.
He's heard that it's escalated.
Into what?
Your Bellmoth case. The FBI thinks there might be mob ties.
I'm a labor lawyer. There are <u>always</u> mob ties.
Just be cool.
Jerry
Christ!
Ssh!
Bobby
It's the NSA. They're the ones doing this.
Bobby
The NSA's doing this 'cause they think I have something. And they killed
Calm down.
They killed Rachel.
Rachel's dead?
Yes.
Jesus.
My stuff's all over her apartment.
Bobby
They're framing me.
Why would they
I don't know. I mean
Why would the NSA
I don't know!
You're tired.
Jerry
Listen to me.
You gotta
No, listen to me. You gotta let me bring you in.
No, I
You gotta let me bring you in to the police.
I won't <u>make</u> it to the police. They won't let me get there. You go.
To the cops?
To the NSA. Make a deal. Tell 'em to stop. Tell 'em I don't have what they're after. Make a deal.
Bobby, you're in way over your head.
Go to 'em, Jerry.
I have a family.
So do I!
I'm sorry, man.
No. No, it's okay.
Bobby? Piece of advice?
Yeah?
Turn yourself in.
Jerry?
Yeah?
Go fuck yourself.
Excuse me, have any of you seen an eight year old boy, good looking, about yeabig.
Hi, dad.
You're learning a cruel lesson.
Are those my Christmas presents?
Some of 'em.
Can I open 'em up?
Sure, go ahead.
Really?
In your dreams.
Dad!
You staying for dinner?
He's kidding.
Where's mom?
She's in the kitchen.
Dad!
Do I know you?
Where've you been?
Having an adventure. I can't tell you about it right now, but I'll tell you about it soon.
Are you and mom getting a divorce?
No. We're never getting a divorce. We were having a fight. It happens sometimes.
Who won the fight?
Men don't win fights with women, son, I'll tell you about that sometime, too. In the meantime, I've got a question for you, and it's incredibly important that you tell me the truth. Under no circumstances will I be angry with you. This is a total GetOutOf JailFree card. Ready?
Yeah.
Did you take <u>anything</u>anything at allout of those Christmas bags I brought home last week.
How long can you stay?
I'm not goin' anywhere, Eric. I live here.
It's okay to use the phone.
Alright!
No "900" numbers.
Robert
Where's Stacy?
She doesn't want to talk to you.
What are you talking
She can't talk to you right now.
Why?
Because she's reading the newspaper, you asshole.
Well that's why I'm here, Mr. Dean. 'Cause you're a labor lawyer.
Good point.
Last night, Larry Spinks, he works the Steel Press, he goes to a bar with his wife Rosalie to have a glass of chianti 'cause it's his birthday, and these two guys, these Guido motherfuckers, they jump him when he goes to the bathroom.
L.T., in this office I'd prefer you say ItalianAmericans.
I'm sorry, Mr. Dean. But Larry's in St. Lukes now, so I'm a littleI'm not myself. The Union bosses say unless we take Bellmoth's offer, it'll only get worse.
That's because your Union bosses <u>are</u> those Guido motherfuckers.
I don't under
The Union's trying to railroad you into accepting terms worse than what you have now.
Why would the Union
Because they've been paid off by Bellmoth.
Mr. Dean
My name's Bobby. I'm your lawyer. Don't do anything 'till I talk to you.
God knows I would, sir, but I have a previous engagement this evening.
And may I ask what could possibly be more important than Fawell Oil v. U.S. Environmental Agency?
I have to go lingerie shopping.
Diane, maybe you didn't hear Mr. Silverberg. They've got models that'll try on the garments. Thank you, sir.
Merry Christmas, son.
Listen
I got a call this morning from a source I trust. The Post is running a lead this afternoon about your involvement in the Bellmoth investigation.
I don't under
They claim you helped create a shell company for Sam Vollotti in Zurich and that through your continuing relationship, the Gambino family's been able to exert influence and provide false witnesses to discredit our case.
Oh, well, that's true.
Robert
Gimme a week and four guys from litigation and I'll have the Post pleading with us not to sue for libel.
What's his name?
Brill.
Gentlemen
This is <u>bullshit</u>. Someone's mixing up a bunch of halftruths to ruin me and to ruin my case.
Who would do that?
Maybe Bellmoth. Maybe the unions. I don't know.
Well until we find, you're gonna have to take a leave of absence.
You're firing me.
A leave of absence. Until we've sorted this all out.
Put David on it. He seems anxious to clear my name.
Bobby
Fuck off.
Jesus! What?! You want money?!
Shut the fuck up.
Your shoe.
My shoe?
Gimme the shoe.
Hey!
Forget me, forget what I did for you. Don't <u>ever</u> mention my name or try to contact me again. Get it?
I don't <u>know</u> you, I don't <u>know</u> your name, I don't know <u>what</u> the hell you did for me except hang up on my wife and slam me into a wall, but I'm getting pretty fuckin' <u>sick</u> of this! Get it?!
Seat 74.
You're Brill.
Yeah?
We'd like to ask you some questions about Daniel Zavitz.
Who <u>are</u> you people?
I'm an investigator with ProTech Security.
I went through this with an investigator this morning. If I could
Mr. Zavitz was involved in an extortion scheme. We believe he passed you sensitive materials, possibly with your knowledge, and we need to
He didn't.
We believe he did.
You're wrong.
We have good reason to believe that he passed you
If he passed me materials, I'd have them. I don't.
We'd like to recover any materials Mr. Zavitz may have given you
He didn't <u>give</u> me
otherwise we may have to
Otherwise you may have to what?
We'd rather not
Fuck you. You may have to what?
He didn't <u>give</u> me
otherwise we may have to
Otherwise you may have to what?
We'd rather not
Fuck you. You may have to
How's the trout?
It tastes like fish.
It is fish.
I mean it tastes like every other fish I've ever had. Every fish tastes the same.
Do you like fish?
Not that much.
Here's what you asked for. Brill's note said it was everything you'd need to, shall we say, coax DePinto
When do I get to meet him?
DePinto?
Brill.
Never.
That wasn't the answer I was hoping for.
What answer were you
"Soon". Or at least sooner than never.
It's how he works.
Brill?
Yes.
So you've said.
Ten thousand cash. I don't know if it's Brill's prices going up or your commission.
I take a straight 15 percent. Brill's fee varies with risk. Perhaps you'd be more comfortable using someone else.
Other than Brill.
Other than me.
Why would I
Someone with whom you don't have quite so personal a
I <u>like</u> our history. And I like you. I'd probably like <u>Brill</u> if I ever got to
He doesn't work that way.
I just want to make sure I'm not breaking the law.
You're not.
How can I be sure.
I wouldn't let you. Good luck with DePinto.
Thank you.
Eat your fish.
Mr. DePinto? My name's Robert Dean. I'm an attorney with Seth, Silverberg.
I got a call from my firm this morning saying don't come in.
Why?
There are reporters wanting to know about my relationship with you and how long I've worked for the mob. The <u>mob</u>, Bobby!
All right, look
Good. You're just what I need right now.
You got a minute?
It's really not a good idea for me to be seen with you.
Who's doing this?
I gotta go.
Will you hang on just a second.
I know.
The IRS contacted me this morning. They say my lifestyle and receipts exceed my income.
You being audited?
For the last four years.
My firm'll represent you. Free of charge.
You don't work there anymore, Bobby.
That's temporary.
Bullshit.
Rachel
We're screwed.
I'm gonna fix it.
How?
Tell me about Brill.
I can't.
You have to.
I've never met him?
Goddammit, Rachel, you assured me
Fuck you. When you needed information, I got it. You didn't care how.
I <u>did</u> care how.
This conversation's over.
What're you gonna do, Rachel? You gonna sit in a bar in Baltimore? You want your job back? You want a life?
I don't <u>have</u> a life, Bobby. I'm in love with a married man.
I'm sorry about that.
What makes you think it's you?
It's not me?
You're a moron, you know that?
Yeah.
Any idea what he looks like?
My guess is male, somewhere in his 40's or 50's.
I'm sorry. I'm not sure I understand. You wanna fuckin' <u>what</u>?
I'd like to speak to someone about what's happening to me.
Actually, that's not true.
You didn't squeeze DePinto?
No, I meant I'm Presbyterian.
Oh.
My wife's Jewish. But that probably doesn't matter right now.
And then what?
I'll see if I can, you know, work things out.
What can I do for you?
Well, I was hoping you might stop by my office to swear out a criminal deposition against some of your friends and coworkers.
Is this a fuckin' joke?
I don't believe it is, no.
Why the hell would I
I've got photographs of you at the Trenton Ramada looking very
That ain't me.
It's not?
You don't know who the fuck
That's not you having a whiskey sour with Carmine Morada.
This is fucked. You don't know <u>who's</u> in that
You're right, Mr. DePinto, and maybe I jumped the gun.
You're goddam right you jumped the gun.
That's probably not you in the picture. I tell you what, I'll just run the thing by the Grand Jury, see if they can't
I want to talk to a goddam lawyer.
Good news there, Mr. DePinto, you're talking to one.
I'm sorry, sir, this card's been declined.
It's a brand new card.
Maybe it's not connected yet.
Here, you can use this.
My suitcase
Sir?
My suitcase is gone.
I'm sure we can locate it for you, sir.
Don't count on it.
Hey.
This guy's a fatassed Rotarian gasbag.
Uhoh.
Listen to him.
Bobby!
Not a very good one, but
So you tap everyone's phone? You use computers to probe financial records? New Search and Seizure laws?
Just for the criminals.
We won't suspend the civil rights of the good people.
Right.
You should take this seriously.
I think you're taking it seriously enough for both of us.
You're a lawyer. Don't you care what's going on around you?
Something bad happened tonight.
What?
I saw a man die.
What do you mean?
In front of Harrison's, he got hit by a bus. I knew him. The firm did some pro bono work for his organization a few years back.
I'm sorry.
The thing is, when I saw him, it seemed like he wanted to tell me... ...he was upset about something and he said... Doesn't matter now. I'm gonna wash up.
What'd you buy at Harrison's?
A toaster. And no terrorist talk at dinner. You're spookin' the kids.
Bobby?
Yeah.
How'd you get the information on DePinto?
What do you mean?
Who did you work with to get the
A guy named Brill. Same guy as always.
Yeah, but you said you've never met him. How did you
Honey, I don't like to talk about this stuff in front of Eric.
Have you been working with Rachel?
No.
Sorry.
It's okay.
I don't understand why Jerry couldn't clear this up.
Well, you know
He's got his priorities?
There's just, clearly, some administrative snafu. I'm sure this is the worst of it.
Stacy?
How could you let me find out like this?
Stacy, I found out like this. This is the first I'm <u>hearing</u> of
Robert
It's not true.
"Sources revealed an FBI investigation into a possible money laundering scheme that may have sent millions of dollars
I've seen it.
"At the center of the investigation are wellknown Washingtonarea attorneys Robert Dean and Rachel Banks."
Yeah...look
You <u>swore</u>!
I have lunch with Rachel once a month. She's my connection to an investigator.
I told you I didn't want you seeing her.
I know.
You had an affair with this woman, Robert, we went to a fucking <u>counselor</u> for a year.
I see her for business.
You told me you weren't seeing her at <u>all</u>.
I didn't want you to be upset. I shouldn't have lied. Stacy, there's nothing between me and Rachel Banks.
The date stamp on the picture is last <u>month</u>. Is that where you and Rachel conduct business.
It's not real... That's not me.
Oh, please
It's not a real picture, Stacy, it's been doctoredup.
I think you should leave now, Robert.
Stacy
Leave this house.
Stacy, don't hang up.
Do you know what I'm looking at Robert?
Stacy
I'm looking at a picture of you and Rachel taken <u>yesterday</u>.
I know, but listen
Was that doctoredup, too?
No, I was with her yesterday. I want you to take Eric and go to our parents house. I want you to do it right now.
I went to the grocery store. My ATM and credit cards didn't work. I couldn't buy food.
I know.
I went to the bank to see why. They said you emptied our accounts
It wasn't me.
This is sciencefiction Robert! The manager showed me the transfer notice with your signature on it.
Stacy, somebody's trying to kill me. Now goddamit
My father's put me in touch with an attorney. He'll be
Is Eric in school?
Yes.
Has anyone been by? Police? FBI?
Just reporters.
I wish you'd gone to your parents like I asked you.
This is my house. Nobody's kicking me out of my house. I picked those drapes.
I don't think anybody wants the drapes, Stacy, I think the drapes are okay.
What happened to your head?
I was in a car chase and a small explosion. Now listen to me: The NSA is behind this. They think that guy I told you about, Daniel Zavitz, they think Zavitz gave me a tape or computer chip of some kind that could be damaging to them. So they're doing all these things <u>electronically</u>. The bank records, the surveillance. They're the ones who broke into the house. Now I know there's no reason to believe me. But I love you. And I love our son. So just believe me anyway. Please.
Does that hurt?
Well...yeah.
Good.
Stacy
I <u>told</u> you they could do this. I <u>told</u> you they had this kind of capability and that with this anti terrorism it would be just another
Stacy...Stacy...maybe now isn't the best time for the IToldYouSo speech.
I'm sorry I didn't believe you.
That's okay.
I opened the present you got me from Harrison's.
You opened the thing?
The lingerie.
That was for Christmas.
I was missing you.
You're as bad as Eric. I've got an entire family of people who root through
...who root through...uh...presents, and...
What is it?
Oh Christ.
Are you sure you're safe?
Yeah.
They're saying you killed that policeman.
That's gonna end tonight.
Is it over?
It's over.
It's really over?
Albert's gonna get me my job back.
I'm sorry about Rachel.
Yeah. I wish you could've met...
Who?
A friend of mine. I don't know his real name. He's dead now.
You did good.
Yes?
I didn't want to bother you during your racquetball game.
Thanks. Who are you?
I'm sorry. Detective Morelos.
Hey, did you guys find my stuff?
Your stuff?
The robbery.
No, sir, I'm not involved with that. I'm doing a quick followup on a bus accident took place a few nights ago. Your name keeps coming up.
Oh...yeah, I didn't see the accident.
Witnesses said you were there, but I notice you didn't file a report.
A report?
A police report.
That's 'cause I <u>wasn't</u> there.
You weren't at Harrison's Department Store the night before
I was <u>in</u> the store, the accident was outside. It was a bus.
Someone said you spoke to Mr. Zavitz before he died. I thought you might know something.
About what?
About the accident.
I'm no expert, but I'm assuming that the impact of a moving bus against his body caused
Mr. Zavitz was in trouble.
What kind of trouble.
You tell me.
I can't.
Are you invoking attorney/client privilege.
I'm not his attorney.
Than why can't you tell me.
Because I don't know.
I'm just trying to determine if Mr. Zavitz was involved in something more than a simple bus accident.
Than why don't you talk to the bus driver?
Why so edgy, Mr. Dean?
Somebody took my blender.
We'd appreciate your cooperation.
I'm happy to help you all I can. But I didn't see the accident and I barely knew Daniel Zavitz. I've gotta go to work.
Did he give you anything?
No.
Anything at all?
No, sir.
Was he with anyone?
Not that I could see.
Nobody gave you <u>anything</u>?
No.
Why'd you go to Harrison's?
To buy lingerie.
For your wife?
<u>Yes</u>, for my wife, what the hell kinds of questions are these.
I thought maybe it might be for Rachel Banks.
I don't know what's goin' on with Zavitz, but that was way, <u>way</u> outa line. You understand?
Yes sir.
I know, but
<u>Wildlife</u> footage, for God's sake. I don't see how he could've slipped you something that the FBI would be interested in.
That's my point.
<u>What's</u> your point.
Well, I need to find out as much about Daniel as possible.
Why?
Because my life is being ruined.
Daniel's life is already ruined. Maybe if you guys stopped thinking about yourselves for a change and
Do you see anything you like?
I'm married.
That's fine.
I'm married to my wife...of several years...and I'd like to buy...as a Christmas present...
You'd like to buy your wife some lingerie as a Christmas gift.
Yes. I have her permission.
It's okay. I think it's a wonderful gift.
Can you help me?
How 'bout Christian Dior?
Is that good?
Very good.
I don't know anything about this. Well, I mean, I know a <u>little</u> aboutfrom a certain perspective. My point is, I don't want to do anything foolish.
It's a little late for that.
I'll say.
What size?
Pardon?
What size?
Eight. Size eight.
I'll be right back.
Thanks.
Remain calm.
Okay.
I think she'll like this very much.
Listen, Daniel, hang on one second.
For that matter, I think you will too.
Could you give me just a moment to talk to a friend of mine here? Not about this, but...Daniel?
Hi, Mr. Dean.
Hello. Hello, Maria.
Is it okay?
You got any money?
Hey, Mr. D., what's happenin'?
Dylan, I was just asking Eric if
Oh, God, I <u>knew</u> it was stupid, I <u>knew</u> we'd get caught. But the Gameboy was just <u>sitting</u> there. Right on top of the bag. Yes. Yes. We took the GameBoy out of the bag, but with every intention of putting it back.
You're a tough nut to crack, Dylan.
Don't think it could've gone any better. Tell me, how's Deb? How're my grandchildren?
A receiver tuned permanently to the Senator's phone.
Well, sir, I'm afraid it's not as simple as that. Your average newspaper guy or Hard Copy lady or whatever, they can't buy this stuff.
Well then who can?
Ah, sir, you know, it's not for me to say.
What do you mean? Who can buy this kind of equipment.
The thing is, Senator, and I don't want to get in the middle of nothing, but
What are you saying?
Most of this stuff's only available to law enforcement.
Law enforcement?
FBI, CIA, NSA, local cops.
Are you sure about this?
I yanked this off your RV. It's a Global Positioning Tracker.
Oh my God.
Tracks your location to the inch and works directly withyou know...
With what?
With spy satellites. I don't like saying these things Senator...
Neil, thank you for your help.
Anytime.
Baudmore Consultants.
Is Jerry Delsano in?
Who's calling?
It's Pat Cary. I work for Senator Sam Albert and I was given Jerry's name.
Jerry's on vacation 'till Monday. I can give him the message when he gets back. That was Patrick and the last name
The thing is...it really can't wait.
My name's Neil. Maybe I can help you.
You knew the deal. No contact.
Who was that other guy?
One of many people who would live a word with you.
Who are they?
You've heard of the National Security Agency?
What do they have to do with this?
That's who they are.
The NSA?
Yes.
You're crazy.
Okay.
Wait.
You drive a black BMW, license plate SRK1339?
Yeah.
I clipped this from your wheel well just before they towed your car away.
What <u>is</u> that?
It's a SATtracker.
I don't know what that means.
Like a LowJack, but two generations ahead of what the police use. It pulses at 230 GigaHertz.
I don't know what that means.
230 GigaHertz. They use that band for the Aquacade SpySAT uplinks.
I don't know what that means.
It means the NSA can read the time off your wristwatch.
Why are they after <u>me</u>?
If I knew, they'd be after <u>me</u>. Which they probably are right now. 'Bye.
Wait. What do I do?
Pal, you're cooked. It's over. What you did, who you were...that's done. I'd find a quiet job somewhere shoveling snow.
Why don't they just identify themselves and tell me what they want?
They're spooks.
I don't know what that
Exposure. They can't have it. They wanna learn what you know and then deal with it.
I don't know <u>anything</u>.
No shit.
What am I gonna do?! I mean, like, for the rest of my <u>life</u>?!
Hey, if you live another week I'll be impressed.
What if
Look, you gave me some work over the last year. We'll call it even.
What if I find out what they're after. You know these people, I don't.
And you won't. Now move
I'll pay you.
They froze your accounts. Get outa my way.
How many years have <u>you</u> been hiding from them? How many years have you been running? What'd they do to you?
If you find something, chalk the Baltimore Sheraton mailbox and go to Temperanceville. It's South of Salisbury. And take this.
Get dressed. We're leaving.
You could knock on the door, you know, and I'd open it.
Move it.
I taped it off the 11 o'clock news.
And you were worried about me. That's nice, I appreciate
I was worried about my hundred and twenty 'K'.
We said a hundred.
The price rises with the temperature and right now you're smokin'. But you're right, you should shop around and get the best price. I'll just let you out here.
Onetwenty.
Did you call anyone?
What do you mean?
I mean did you call anyone.
Look, my wife is understandably
Jesus!
I called my wife!
What'd I tell you?
I didn't use my name.
What'd I tell you?
I called from a payphone!
What'd I tell you?
You told me no calls.
I told you no calls.
Sorry.
You don't get it. They go through your phone records. They fuckin' monitor everyone you called in the last
I didn't use my name.
Oh, I'll bet <u>that</u> threw 'em off the scent. I sure hope you covered the mouthpiece with a handkerchief and used a funny voice!
The NSA's been in bed with the entire telecommunications industry since the 40's. They've infected everything: Banks, computers, phones, mail, name it. The more technology we buy into, the easier it is keeping tabs on us. It's a brave new world. At least it better be.
How do you know so much?
None of your business.
You used to work for 'em, didn't you?
I was a traffic analyst.
I intercepted phone calls.
How'd you get around the tap orders?
They can tap anything as along as it's an airwave intercept. Cellulars and pagers your kid can do. Hardline calls we'd pick off the relays as they were being fed into ground cables or fired up to the SATs. We'd suck in everything. All foreign, most domestic. Domestic was my group. Druggies, radicals, loudmouths. Anyone we wanted.
How'd you have the manpower to
Meade has 18 underground acres of computers. They scan <u>every</u> phonecall for target words like "bomb" or "President". We redflag phone numbers or voice prints...whatever we wanted. When the computers found something, it was bounced to comparative analysis.
Jesus.
That was twenty years ago. With digital? They can suck a salt grain off a beach.
Why'd you leave?
It was '72. I figured we had enough problems without monitoring a Berkeley kid's class schedule. So I sold my story to <u>Ramparts</u> and split.
They come after you?
Well...there'd be too much disclosure to prosecute me. So they ruined my records and made sure I'd never hold a real job again.
What do you think?
Looks like Detroit.
Welcome to Santa's Workshop.
That is one ugly sunrise.
It really is. Did you find anything?
Yeah. Take a walk with me.
Remember when Senator Hamersley died in an accident up near Shenandoah?
Yeah.
The NSA killed him.
Jesus. Do you have proof?
Well, actually, <u>you</u> have proof. Could you walk a little faster please.
What's going on?
They're here.
Who?
Them.
Where?
Here?
<u>Here</u>?!
In the warehouse. They're hiding in a duct on the third floor. When we go back inside, they're gonna kill us. When they notice that we're moving toward the car, they'll come running out of the building.
'Kay, well, could you walk faster, please.
Empty 'em 'till they're almost flat. And turn your head. There might be some debris flying your way.
Why?
What the fuck?!
They shouldn't have come without calling first.
Gimme that.
You sure?
You're driving.
Those are Feds.
I didn't see a warrant. Did you see a warrant?
Think we let out enough air?
Oh my God...
We lost 'em.
That wasn't so hard.
FuckinA.
Let's not do the tire thing anymore, okay?
Yeah, I can see where that'd
These guys are incredibly persistent.
Tell me about it.
Drive.
We're not gonna hurt you.
Drive.
Tell him we're not gonna hurt him.
Drive or I'll blow your fuckin' head off.
No he won't.
Goddammit
We're honest people and we need your help. I'll give you two hundred dollars if you
Listen to you, "directly". You're not gonna get <u>near</u> the News Department. And if you did, it'd never get on the air. TimeLife buried the Zapruder film for 15 years.
What about newspapers and magazines?
Same thing?
So what do we do now?
I was thinkin' about asking for my hundred and fifty grand and calling it quits.
What if we do a mailing to Congressmen.
It'd never get through. All packages are screened, xrayed and then handsearched for explosives. You didn't like my "givememy money" idea?
What if we hand deliver to their homes or office?
The area's wired for surveillance, they'll be <u>looking</u> for those moves.
Well how do <u>I</u> know what they're
<u>I</u> know. <u>I</u> know what they're looking for and I'm telling you.
What if we transmitted it over cellular?
Listen
Nah, they'd shut down the pin number.
What if
If they couldn't do that, they'd shut down the whole system, all the relays.
What if
They've done it before. Takes maybe two minutes.
What if
What if <u>what</u>?
What if we just fucked with 'em?
How?
Same way they did with you and me. We take their biggest guy and turn him into one of us.
Reynolds.
No.
Who?
You wanna get caught spying on Albert?
No, I want the NSA to get caught spying on Albert.
We're gonna lead Albert by the nose to one conclusion. And then when he's pissed as hell, we're gonna drop the tape in his lap. How fast can you teach me what I need to know?
How fast can you learn?
Pretty fast.
We'll have to restock some basics.
What do you know about locking cellular phone signals?
I know my phone number and I know the number for SportsPhone. Beyond that
Shit.
What are you dialing?
AmeriTech's database. There's Albert's D.C. office address and his phone's identity code. Now we just reprogram out phone with his ID code and you know what we've got?
He came in four minutes ago.
C'mon.
Feeling lucky?
Not particularly, no.
We've also been informed that the Grand Jury is going to call for an investigation into your affairs.
Why?
They want to hold you in Contempt for ethics violations.
It is?
Except for the part about my setting up a company in Zurich and knowing anyone named Sam Vollotti and having any relationship whatsoever with the Gambino family.
Tell us about Rachel Banks.
Rachel Banks?
What kind of a question is that?
A direct one.
I have a professional relationship with Rachel Banks. She's the go between for a private investigator I use.
Why don't you just call Brill directly.
I don't know who he is.
I'm told you had an affair with Rachel Banks four years ago.
Told by whom?
Considering the enormous exposure to which you've subjected this firm, I'd think you'd do best to simply answer my questions.
Really?
Yes.
Well considering what a colossal douche bag you are, David, maybe I'd do best to simply kick your ass all over the capitol.
Zavitz, what? You want your old job back?
Listen to me
Tired of chasing squirrels around the park?
Listen
Lemme ask you something. I put a bird feeder out in the yard, but the squirrels, they keep taking
Turn on CNN.
They keep taking the bird seed. I thought since you're the expert on
Goddammit, shut the fuck up and turn on CNN!
Alright, I made a joke about squirrels, don't get so
Do it!
You've got it on tape?
Clear as day.
Who else have you told?
No one. But I'm a little nervous.
When can you get it here?
I'm doing a transfer now.
Come straight here. Don't talk to anyone.
I'll come straight there.
Be careful, Danny.
It's actually DH1 Digitech Pinpoint scanning with a frequency modulator.
I don't know what that means.
Me neither, but the upshot is I've got color liveaction footage of you and Ms Hawkins and it doesn't look good.
So...how much money do you want in exchange for not ruining my life?
I don't want any money. And believe me, I have no interest in ruining your life. I'm not interested in this tape.
You're not.
Brill?
Brill's dead. He died of small pox when he was two and he was buried in a Kansas field. My name doesn't matter.
What happened?
It started with the information you gave me on DePinto. After we talked, he agreed to resign. Next, a phony detective asked me about Daniel Zavitz. Then an investigator questioned me about an extortion scheme they claimed Zavitz was behind. The FBI started looking into mob connections. A doctored picture in the paper. Overnight, I'm ruined. Wife. job, bank accounts, everything gone.
DePinto's dead.
Oh Jesus.
They found him yesterday folded neatly in a car trunk. What about Zavitz?
I don't know anything about Zavitz.
You said he was behind an extortion scheme.
<u>They</u> said he was behind an extortion scheme.
And you were the last one to talk to him.
Yes.
What'd he say to you?
Nothing.
What'd he give to you?
Nothing.
Don't bullshit me, I can save your life.
I'm telling you, I
I just gave him my card.
He didn't give you an address? He didn't give you a phone number?
Nothing. Two nights later I was robbed. I'm pretty sure they were pros.
Um...who's that?
Don't know. Did you check everywhere? Maybe it was hidden in something. Maybe there was someone else
Someone else?
Maybe you bumped into someone who took it and you didn't even know.
209 to anyone! I need some help here!
Who are you calling?!
Gee. The Great JerkOff Book Caper of 1953.
Vincennes, is there someplace you'd rather be?
Yeah, Cap. Back in Narcotics.
Oh? Anyplace else?
Working whores with squad two.
Maybe you should have thought of that before you made Bloody Christmas page one.
Have we met before?
Yeah.
Was it a party?
Something like that.
Oh, I know. A FleurdeLis party, right?
FleaurdeLis. 'Whatever you desire.'
Dope, liquor, hookers that look like movie stars. Pierce Patchett has it all.
Yeah. Me and Patchett go way back.
Pierce isn't like regular people. I dig him, but he scares me too.
Really? How?
You know, when I came out to L.A., this isn't exactly where I saw myself ending up.
Yeah. Me neither.
I'm pretty sure I can get you a part on the show... But tonight? Pretend it's an acting job, kid. Showbiz.
And no one'll know about this?
It'll be our secret.
Showbiz.
Pacific Coast Bell.
This is Sgt. Vincennes. Requesting a name and address on a phone number. Hollywood zeroone twothreenine.
Please hold the line... No such number is assigned.
I just called it.
No, Sergeant. I checked twice.
A bootleg...
Yeah. Sergeant Jack Vincennes requesting. I need the home address on a Pierce Patchett.
Please hold, Sergeant...
Big V Jack Vincennes! May I have this dance?
Karen, this is Sid Hudgeons from <u>HushHush</u> magazine.
We did a piece last year. 'Ingenue Dykes In Hollywood.' Her name got mentioned.
Is she?
Beats me. Look, JackieBoy, a friend of mine just sold some reefer to Matt Reynolds. He's tripping the light fantastic with Tammy Jordan at 2245 Maravilla, Hollywood Hills. It's right around the corner.
You lost me, Sid. Who?
Contract players at Metro. You pinch 'em. I do you up feature in the next issue. Plus the usual fifty cash. Tell me, am I fucking Santa Claus?
I need an extra fifty. Two patrolmen at twenty apiece and a dime for the watch commander at Hollywood Station.
Jack! It's Christmas!
No. It's felony possession of marijuana.
They're sitting in the dark, goofing on the Christmas tree.
Stand there with your camera. I'll stop here so you get Grauman's Chinese in the backgrouns.
I like it! I like it!
It's Christmas morning in the City of Angels, and while decent citizens sleep the sleep of the righteous, hopheads prowl for marijuana, not knowing that a man is coming to stop them. The free wheeling, bigtime Big V, celebrity crimestopper, Jack Vincennes, the scourge of grasshoppers and junk fiends everywhere. You like it, Jackie Boy?
Yeah, it's subtle.
<u>HushHush</u>. Off the record and on the Q.T.
Sid, it's Vincennes.
Jackie, are you back on Narco? I need copy.
No. But I've got something going with Ad Vice.
Something good?
Don't know. I'm chasing picture books. Fuck shots, but the posers don't look like junkies. It's well done stuff. I thought you might have heard something.
Not a word.
What about FleurdeLis? Their slogan's 'Whatever you desire.'
No. No, I've heard bupkis. Jack, I'll talk to you later. Call me when you get something I can use. Smut's from hunger. For sad sacks who can't get their ashes hauled
You're back, boychick.
Sid, how are they hanging?
Down around my ankles.
The Grauman's Chinese pot bust. He just got off the honor farm.
What's he doing here, Sid?
You tight with the D.A., trash?
Sure, he just tried to throw me off the force last Christmas as a little joke.
How'd you like a little payback? Not to mention a donation to the widows and orphans fund. Did you know Loew was a swish?
And Reynolds?
He's queer too. Metro paid him two grand a week to fake it with ingenues. On screen and off. I'm getting him to fuck the D.A. for a hundred bucks. That's twice the fifty you got for wrecking his career.
Sid, why would a guy like Pierce Patchett get involved with running dope and hookers?
Where'd you hear that?
Around.
Jackie, all I know is what you know. The man is very rich. And he's invested in freeway construction so he's gonna get a lot richer. But that's it. Patchett's what I like to call 'Twilight.' He ain't queer, he ain't Red, he can't help me in my quest for prime sinuendo.
Jackie! You got some good scoop for the Sidster?
Sid, cut the crap. I 
Give me some Narco skinny. I want to put out an all hophead issue. Shvartze jazz musicians and movie stars. Maybe tie it into the Rosenbergs. You like?
Shut up!
What's wrong, Trash?
What happened with the kid and Loew?
You didn't get my message? It got called off. The kid chickened out at the last minute.
He's dead. I was just there. Somebody slit his throat.
Jesus. Jack, that's a story. 'Swish Actor Gets The Gay Blade.' Let me get my camera.
Loew didn't go with him. You're sure?
I put Reynolds in the cab myself. The night cost me a hundred scoots and I got bupkis.
It seems like my Susan, but...
When was the last time you saw her, Mrs. Lefferts?
At Christmas. We had fought. I didn't like her boyfriend. I  she has a birthmark on her hip.
Let my Susie rest in peace!
Mrs. Lefferts, I just want to ask a few questions.
That other policeman already checked under the house and found not a thing amiss.
Officer White?
A sweet man.
Under the house.
All he found were rodents. No signs of foul play. So there.
My daughter was a virgin!
I don't doubt it  Oh, God.
It's okay. These are police. <u>What</u> do you want?
I want D.A. bureau men to tail Dudley Smith twentyfour hours a day; I want you to get a judge to authorize a wire tap on his home phone; I want authorization to check his bank records and I want it all in an hour.
On what evidence?
None. Call it a hunch.
Absolutely not. Dudley Smith is a highly decorated member of this city's police department and I won't smear his name without 
Without what, his smearing yours first? What's he got on you, Loew? Pictures of you and an out of work actor with your pants down?
Do you have any proof?
The proof had his throat slit. So far you're not denying it.
I'm not going to dignify youwith answers. If you'll excuse me, I've got a Jack Vincennes press conference to prepare for.
Okay! You're right! Dudley's got photos of me and Reynolds.
What's Dudley's scheme?
Miss Bracken, I'm Lieutenant Exley.
I know who you are. You're the policeman Bud told me about.
Really? What did White say?
He said you were smart. He also said you were competing with your dead father. How did he put it? Trying to measure up to a ghost.
Let's concentrate on my smarts. Pierce Patchett made you, didn't he? He taught you how to dress and talk and think and I am very impressed with the results. But I need some answers and if I don't get them, I'm going to take you and Patchett down.
He can take care of himself and I'm not afraid of you. And you forgot one thing, Lieutenant. Pierce also taught me how to fuck... Can I get you a drink?
I'm curious about you.
Why?
It galls you that I know so much about you. You don't have information to compete.
Don't underestimate me, Miss Bracken.
The way you've underestimated Bud White?
How was I?
Oh, the best I ever had. Absolutely the best.
You sound like you mean it.
The silver screen's loss is your gain.
How about White?
You want to know what Bud's like in bed?
I want to know why you see him. Is it a Patchett payoff?
I see Bud because I want to. I see Bud because he can't hide the warmth he has inside him.
I'll take your word for it.
I see Bud because he makes me feel like Lynn Bracken and not some Veronica Lake lookalike who fucks for money. I see him because he doesn't know how to disguise who he is. There's more if you want to hear it.
Does all that make it harder for you to hate him or easier?
I don't hate White. I really don't. It's just, in my business, it's the wild cars you have to watch out for.
You don't like that you don't know how to play him. He doesn't follow the same rules of politics you do. That makes him dangerous.
You cut to the heart of things, don't you? What about Lynn Bracken? She going to be a hooker all her life?
I came out here with a dream. That's gone, but I settled for reality.
Some reality.
No. This is the means to the reality. But I'm not going to tell you what it is.
Why not?
Because you'll use it against me. Won't you?
You're tougher than Bud thinks you are.
You're the first person to ever call me tough.
Like recognizes like. I'm pretty tough, myself.
You, me and White, huh?
Actually, Bud's only tough on the outside.
If I knew you were coming I'd have baked a cake.
Forget everything else for a second, Lynn. Is there anything you can give me on Dudley Smith?
A police captain. I think he's behind all of this.
I work for Patchett. I had a feeling that there was someone else, but I never knew who.
Okay. Look, if it helps, Bud hates himself for what he did.
I know how he feels.
Where will you go?
Bisbee, Arizona. The air's good for pensioners and I know where everything is.
When?
Right now, before I back down.
Where is he?
Do you think I ever could've been in the running?
Some men get the world. Others get exhookers and a trip to Arizona.
I'll tell you what I told Officer White when he asked me about Susan's death.
Bud White's been here?
For the last time. I may suborn women into illicit activities, but they're handsomely compensated, I treat them well and make sure the men they deal with show them every due respect.
Is the Veronica Lake lookalike one of your whores?
A vulgar term, but yes.
What's her name?
Lynn Bracken.
Why's she seeing Bud White?
Why do men and women usually see each other?
Anything else you want to add before I talk to her?
No.
Not good enough.
Then try talking to my lawyer. Good evening, gentlemen.
We got a total of fortyfive spent 12gauge Remington shotgun shells. Three men with fiveshotcapacity pumps. All of them reloading twice.
Hold on... We need to canvass. See if a purple Mercury was seen around here tonight.
The Nite Owl. Anything bothering you about the case?
Yeah. The fact that you guys won't let it get filed away.
What are you talking about?
Bud White grilled me on it this morning. You know, he's not as dumb as I thought.
We got a dead excop and a girl who looks like Rita Hayworth at the Nite Owl. Another dead excop under the house of Rita's mother. It's not a good week for excops.
I got Vincennes in the next room. It's not a good week for cops in general.
What's on the call sheet?
A guy dressed as Santa has been exposing himself to kids in Los Feliz. Apparently, sir, he's decorated himself.
Decorated?
With tinsel and plastic icicles and... on his penis, sir.
I get the idea. You got a description?
Of his penis, sir?
You're the key witness?
That's right.
I should've known. What's the Chief throwing you?
<u>Throwing me</u>?
Yeah, Exley. What's the payoff?
You're the payoff expert. I'm just doing my duty.
You're playing an angle, college boy. You're getting something out of this so you don't have to hobnob with the fucking rank and file cops who'll hate your guts for snitching. If they're making you a detective, watch out. Some Bureau guys are gonna burn in this and you're gonna have to work with friends of theirs.
What about you?
I'm snitching three old timers who'll be fishing in Oregon next week. Next to you I'm clean. And smart.
L.A.P.D.
<u>Shit</u>. Someone beat us here.
Damnit...
What?
Glasses.
Just don't shoot me.
I need to speak to you.
Give me a minute, will ya?
Damnit... <u>What</u>?
I want you to follow Bud White.
Even I'm not that crazy.
It's not a request. I need to know what White knows. Follow him or I'll have you pulled off 'Badge of Honor.' Permanently.
Yesterday that might've meant something. Pull me off. You'd be doing me a big favor.
Yesterday yes, today no. What happened last night?
Transfer me, suspend me. Just leave me alone.
You make a mistake?
Yeah. My whole life.
Listen, I think I made a mistake, too.
I ain't a priest, Lieutenant. I can't hear your confession.
Do you make the three Negroes for the Nite Owl killings?
What?
It's a simple question.
You should be the last person who wants to dig any deeper into the Nite Owl, <u>Lieutenant</u>.
Is there more to that, or do I have to guess?
Rollo was a purse snatcher. My father ran into him off duty. He shot my father six times and got away clean. No one even knew who he was. I made the name up to give him some personality.
So what's the point?
Rollo's the reason I became a cop. I wanted to catch the guys who thought they could get away with it. It was supposed to be about truth and justice and Rollo. But somewhere along the way I forgot all that... How about you, Jack? Why'd you become a cop?
I'm trying to figure what angle you're playing <u>this</u> time, but I sure as hell can't see one.
I've given up angles for awhile. I just want to solve this thing.
The Nite Owl was solved, Lieutenant.
I want to do it right.
Okay, college boy, I'll help you. But I want half the collar.
A third. I don't think we can make a case without Bud White.
What's that for?
Bud White. He sees us and we're dead.
Jesus... Maybe White's not so dumb after all.
Rita Hayworth at the morgue and now Veronica Lake with White. What the hell's going on?
Movie star hookers. Whatever you desire... It's FleurfrLis again.
What's FleurdeLis?
High line whores. With plastic surgery to look like movie stars. And who knows what else? It's run by this guy Pierce Patchett. You want to talk to him?
Yeah. But first I want to brace Stompanato.
She is Lana Turner.
What?
She <u>is</u> Lana Turner.
What are you going to do?
I'm going to Lynn Bracken's. I'll meet you at the Dining Car.
Great. You get the girl, I get the coroner.
John, I doubt you've ever drawn a stupid breath. Don't start now.
Okay. I'll do it.
You think golden boy can handle it, Cap?
I think you'll be surprised what Edmund's capable of.
John Vincennes. It's three A.M., lad.
Two minutes, Dudley. It's important.
Lucky for you that my wife and four fair daughters are at the beach in Santa Barbara.
You remember Buzz Meeks, Dudley?
A disgrace as a policeman. Straight D fitness reports from every C.O. he ever served under. What about him?
Twelve years ago he worked a vice roust with Dick Stensland. They arrested a Pierce Patchett on an extortion scam. Guy ran hookers. He'd have them photographed with their johns, then doubledip for some blackmail. Charges got dropped. Insufficient evidence. You were supervising officer on the case and I was wondering if you remember anything about it.
What's this all about, lad?
Part of it has to do with a murder. I've been working with Ed Exley on it.
You're Narco, lad, not Homicide. And since when do you work with Edmund?
It's a private investigation. I fucked something up and I want to make amends.
Don't start trying to do the right thing, John. You haven't had enough practice.
Have you discussed this with anyone else, John?
No.
Not even with Exley?
That was his favorite toast. I saw the test results on the lieutenant's exam. You placed first out of twentythree.
The youngest applicant by eight years.
You'll make lieutenant inside a year. Patrol division?
I was thinking Detective Bureau.
You're wrong.
Am I...? Would you be willing to plant corroborative evidence on a suspect you knew was guilty in order to ensure an indictment?
Dudley, we've been over this.
Answer yes or no.
I... No.
Would you be willing to rig crime scene evidence to support a prosecuting attorney's working hypothesis...? Yes or no, Edmund.
No.
Would you be willing to beat confessions out of suspects you knew to be guilty?
No.
Would you be willing to shoot hardened criminals in the back to offset the chance 
No.
Then for God's sake, don't be a detective. Stick to assignments where you won't have to make those choices. Patrol, Internal Affairs, but not the Bureau.
I know you mean well, Dudley, but I don't need to do it the way you did. Or my father.
At least get rid of the glasses. I can't think of one Bureau man who wears them.
Stensland's a disgrace. Straight D fitness reports from every C.O. he ever served under. But White is a valuable officer.
White's a mindless thug.
No, Edmund. He's a man who can answer yes to those questions I ask you from time to time.
You'll reap the benefits, but are you truly prepared to be despised within the department?
Yes, Dudley. I am.
So be it.
You should stay away from a man when his blood is up.
His blood's always up.
Sir, I took the call. It's my case.
Edmund, you don't want it and you can't have it.
Yes, I do, sir.
It's mine. I'll make you my second in command.
Why?
We got a call earlier on three Negro youths. Firing shotguns in Griffith Park from a latemodel purple Mercury Coupe.
Get on it.
Ed, I want confessions.
I'll break them, sir.
Don't get sidetracked. Stay with the Nite Owl.
She may still be alive, whoever she is.
There are loose ends out there, Dudley. I 
There always are. But there are also three men and three guns. Matched forensically. A few loose ends don't matter.
Something's wrong. I feel it inside. Doesn't that sound crazy?
No... Where'd the tip come from?
Anonymous. Probably nothing.
I'm loathe to kill my brother officers, Edmund.
Tell that to Jack Vincennes. To Stensland.
Jack was a shame, but Dick Stensland had the audacity to try to sell me my own heroin. Through his whore girl friend. I sent him to make the buy. The rest is history.
Why?
A vacuum, Edmund. That's what we have in Los Angeles. Sending Mickey Cohen up created it. My containment work maintained it. Certain photographs guarantee it. Organized crime has been held back, but there's still a demand for the services it provides.
And now you'll provide them.
Absolutely. Prostitution and gambling are victimless crimes. The heroin we'll run down to the coloreds. Anesthetize them. As long as it's not a middle class problem, no one will care. It's still a crime free city... for respectable people.
<u>No</u>.
Why not, lad? Absolute justice?
Something like that.
<u>Really</u>? Would you be willing to rig crime scene evidence to support a prosecuting attorney's working hypothesis?
This is Mr. Hudgeons, Wendell.
I'm happy to cooperate. You don't need to tie me down.
It's for your own safety. Now what can you tell us about Sergeant John Vincennes?
Trashcan Jack. The Big V. I can tell you he's on the Night Train to the big adios.
Take it easy! I didn't have anything to do with him getting killed if that's what you mean.
But you were business associates?
What does that have to do 
Okay so we worked together. It was an information exchange. I got him first class collars and he got me good stories. We were friends for Chrissakes!
Alright. We'll drop that line for now. Next topic. Please comment on Pierce Patchett.
Okay. Okay. Everyone knows Patchett's worth a boatload of greenbacks. From aviation, freeway construction. But the man has hobbies, too. He bankrolls B movies under the table and runs movie star lookalike hookers. And try this on: he's rumored to be a periodic heroin sniffer. All in all a powerful behindthe scenes strangeo.
And?
And what?
Reciprocity, Mr. Hudgeons, is the key to all relationships.
He runs call girls. Primo tail. Fixed up like movie stars.
And?
In my car. Blackmail shit. The trunk under the carpet. Patchett got me to photograph a cop fucking this gorgeous cunt Lynn, looks just like Veronicaaa 
What do you mean Deuce Perkins got clipped last night?!
They shot him in his library.
I don't want a floor plan; I want to know who! Who's taking the ticket for this, Johnny?
Nobody. At least not yet.
And what about the merchandise Deuce was holding for me?
Gone. Not a trace.
Some ferstunkener is moving in and we don't know who?! Maybe we should ask Hedda Hopper!
You're twentytwo, aren't you, Ray?
Say what and so what.
Did one of the officers work you over a little?
You look like Robinson after that last LaMotta fight. 'Course LaMotta looked a lot worse. So you're twentytwo, right?
Man, why do you keep asking me that?
Just getting my facts straight. Twentytwo makes it a gas chamber bounce. You should have pulled this caper a couple of years ago. Get life, do a little Youth Authority jolt, transfer to Folsom a big man. Orbit on some of that good prison brew, get yourself a sissy 
I never truck with no sissies!
That fucking Larry. I almost believed him.
Believed what?
Nothing, Ray. That Larry, he's a pisser. You did the Casitas Youth Camp with him, didn't you?
Man, why're you talkin' about Larry? His business is his business.
Ray, you protected Ty and Larry up in Casitas, didn't you?
You ain't woofin' I did. Stupid down home niggers got no more sense than a fuckin' dog.
I heard you like to shoot dogs.
Dogs got no reason to live.
Oh? you feel that way about people, too?
Man, what're you saying?
Ray, we got the shotguns.
I don't own no shotguns.
Why were you throwing clothes in the building incinerator?
Say what?
You guys were arrested this morning, but none of you have last night's clothes. <u>You</u> were seen burning them. Add to that the fact that you hid the car you were cruising around in last night and it doesn't look good.
I got nothin' more to say till I see a judge.
Were you on hop? You were passed out when you got arrested. Were you hopped up, Ray?
Ty and Larry fuck with that shit, not me.
Where do they get their stuff? Come on. Give me one to feed the D.A. Just a little one.
I got the rap sheets on the black guys, sir. Coates and Jones got charges a mile long. But except for some kid stuff, Fontaine's clean.
Clean?
More or less.
Until he gunned down six people.
Anything?
Nothing.
So on active duty, Meeks didn't make an arrest from 1938 to '43.
Someone must've pulled the records.
Where are the police academy files?
I don't have time. I have 
Just show me where they are!
Ed, your observations have been astute. What's your assessment of this situation?
The public demands justice, sir. This was a fullfledged riot of policemen. Shift the guilt to men whose pensions are secured. Force them to retire. But someone has to swing. Indict, try and convict Stensland and Bud White. Secure them jail time. Feed them to the sharks, sir. Protect yourself; protect the department.
I want to know who we give the public in contrast? The department needs role models. Cleancut, <u>forthright</u> men the public can admire.
I'll testify, sir. I'm not afraid to do what's right.
And I'll promote you. You'll be a lieutenant immediately.
Ed, you're 30. Your father didn't make lieutenant until he was 33.
I know that, sir. I also know that when he made lieutenant, it was as a detective.
Jack Vincennes. He's the technical advisor on 'Badge of Honor,' sir. He lives for it. That's the way to get him.
All right, Ed. Call Sergeant Vincennes.
Bud White, what brings you down to the basement?
I got a few Nite Owl questions.
I don't know if you read the papers, but that case is closed.
I'm tying up loose ends. Padding my report. You know how it goes.
What do you want to know?
Anything off. Anything that didn't make sense.
You mean beside the fact that thirtyfive out of fortyfive rounds were gratuitous? I can't think of anything.
Whose shoe?
Susan Lefferts.
If she was sitting here, then it's facing the wrong way. What are these smears in the blood?
It looks like she was flailing, trying to get away.
But she's moving away from the door. Who was sitting at this table?
Dick Stensland. Had to be dumb panic. If she knew him she would've been sitting with him... Right?
Cotton balls. I found them just inside the meat locker door.
<u>Ear plugs</u>.
Exactly. At least one of those animals had the brains to protect his ears.
It doesn't exactly play like dumb panic.
What do you mean?
It's like they knew they were going to kill everyone before they went in...
Yeah, so...
Officer White. I heard you got a hardon for wife beaters.
And you fuck people up for a living. That don't make me you. <u>Capisce</u>, shitbird?
Wendell White, how's tricks, <u>paesano</u>?
I ain't your <u>paesano</u>, you wop cocksucker.
What do you want, <u>officer</u>?
You remember an excop named Buzz Meeks? He works for a guy named Patchett.
Should I?
His file listed you as a known associate. Now spill.
Oh, yeah. That was a long time ago. Before your day. The last few years he's been muscle for hire. But I heard he's disappeared.
More.
More's gonna cost you.
How 'bout I give you your balls back?
Before Meeks disappeared he was popping off about trying to move eighteen pounds of heroin.
Bullshit. Where would a twobit excop get 18 pounds of heroin?
Deuce Perkins. Mickey C's narcotics lieutenant. The night he got clipped, eighteen pounds of Mickey's heroin went missing.
Meeks is probably in Rio or someplace like that by now.
He's under a tract house in San Berdoo. And he don't smell too good. What happened to the heroin, Johnny?
I don't know. I swear it!
She's fine.
I'm not asking you.
Are you Pierce Patchett?
I am. Are you soliciting for police charities? The last time, you people called at my office.
I'm a homicide detective. Where were you last night?
I was here, hosting a party. Who was killed and why do you think I can help?
Richard Stensland.
I don't know him. Mr...
Officer White. How about Susan Lefferts? You know her?
You know I do or you wouldn't be here. How did you find me?
We met outside Hollywood Liquors on Christmas Eve. This is where Lynn Bracken's booze bills go.
Of course...
Sue Lefferts died at the Nite Owl. I'm investigating.
Where's the other guy? Buzz.
He no longer works for me. Find Susan's killer, Mr. White. I'll give you a handsome reward. <u>Whatever you desire</u>.
Thanks, but no thanks.
Against your code?
I don't have one. Lefferts looked beatup Christmas Eve, but didn't act it. How come?
Do you care about criminal matters peripheral to Susan's murder?
No.
Then you wouldn't feel obligated to report them?
That's right.
Then listen closely, because I'll only say this once and if it gets repeated, I'll deny it. I run call girls. Lynn Bracken is one of them and so was Susan Lefferts. I treat my girls very well. I have grown daughters, myself, and I don't like the thought of women being hurt. I sense you share this feeling.
Why were Lefferts' eyes black?
I think she'd been hit in the face with a tennis racket. She is  was  a big doubles fan.
You wanna go downtown and discuss this officially?
Wait. Our deal still holds?
I needed a Rita Hayworth to fill out my little studio.
What little studio?
There's Gardner, Hepburn, Grable, Turner. Lynn Bracken is my Veronica Lake. I use girls who look like movie stars. Sometimes I employ a plastic surgeon.
That's why her mother couldn't I.D. her... Jesus fucking Christ.
No, Mr. White. Pierce Morehouse Patchett. Now, I sense you're on your best behavior, but that's all I'll give you. If you persist, I'll meet you with my attorney. Now, would you like Miss Bracken's address? I doubt she knows anything, but 
I got her address.
Of course... this is personal with you, isn't it, Mr. White?
Where are we going?
It's a surprise. You like surprises, don't you, White?
Yeah, that's Stens.
Hell of a way to avoid a prison sentence.
What happened?
Someone held up a coffee shop, panicked and killed six people.
One in six. Where's the girl?
Officer White, put down that weapon and 
A naked guy with a gun? You expect anyone to believe that?
Get the fuck away from me.
How's it going to look on your report?
It'll look like justice. That's what that fat fuck got. <u>Justice</u>.
You don't know what the word means, you dumb bastard.
Why?
Lynn.
She told you?
I knew Stensland and Meeks knew each other. Meeks was with Sue Lefferts on Christmas Eve. The night I met Lynn. Lefferts' mother I.D.ed Stensland as Lefferts' boyfriend, but Stens pretended he didn't know either one of them.
Stensland and Meeks. What were they up to?
Johnny Stompanato told me when Meeks disappeared, he was trying to move the 18 pounds of heroin that went missing when Deuce Perkins was shot.
<u>Stensland and Buzz Meeks</u>. Twoman triggers knocking off Mickey Cohen lieutenants. When they killed Deuce Perkins, they got heroin as a bonus.
Then something goes wrong. Meeks gets killed. Maybe Stens got greedy, killed Meeks and left him under his girlfriend's house. The night he died, Stens was all mysterious. Said he had something big going down.
The Nite Owl! Stensland was going there to sell the heroin.
Somebody got wind of it, killed them all.
It wasn't the Negroes. The Griffith Park report was a phony. And, who says the purple Merc was spotted outside the Nite Owl?
Dudley.
The first guys to the car when Jack and I got there were Bruening and Carlisle.
Dudley's guys.
They didn't find the shotguns. They planted them.
It all keeps coming back to Dudley.
It's Dudley for the Nite Owl.
Pierce Patchett figures in, too. That's the angle Jack was working. Dudley must work for Patchett.
Let's just kill them.
What?
For Jack, for Stensland, for anybody else who got in the way. I've been trying to be smart. A detective. But killing those two fuckers, that would be justice.
Stay smart, Bud. We build a case. We play by the rules.
There are no rules! Why the fuck are you doing this? The Nite Owl made you. You want to tear all that down.
With a wrecking ball. You want to help me swing it?
Let's go see Pierce Patchett. Run a goodcopbadcop.
Which one are you and which one am I?
You expecting problems?
Patchett uses a lot of excop muscle.
It's a suicide note. Says he killed Jack because Jack had figured out a pornography scam Patchett was running.
He had help getting up there. Two of his fingers are broken.
We had one thing figured wrong. I don't think Dudley workd for Patchett.
At least not anymore.
Patchett's dead. He sent you after me. I'd say Dudley's tying up his loose ends.
<u>Lynn</u>.
Ellis Loew.
What about him?
Jack thought he was up to his neck in all this.
Bud...
If I let you go, there'll be ten more lawyers to take your place tomorrow. They just won't come on the bus, that's all.
They never made a match on the shotgun serial numbers. What if Breuning and Carlisle took them from the evidence room? Couple of cold pieces that had been hanging around a year or two.
We should check the records, and, we should talk to Lynn.
You wanted to meet here?
Me? You called it. I got a message that...
You figured this was a setup? And you showed up anyway?
A lot of bad stuff happened here. It's as good a place as any for it to end.
You know, all I ever wanted was to measure up to my father.
I spent years trying not to live down to mine.
Mrs. Lefferts, I'm Officer White with the L.A.P.D. I'd like to ask a couple of questions.
Let my daughter rest in peace.
Five minutes. That's all.
Tell me about the boyfriend she had. The one you mentioned at the morgue.
First I want to go on record as saying that my Susie was a virgin when she died.
Ma'am, I'm sure she was.
Susie, I told you I didn't approve of that boyfriend. He was too old for you. You let him come into this house and be fresh to me. I went out one day and old Mrs. Jensen next door saw Susan's boyfriend and another man and thought she heard a ruckus.
What was that boyfriend's name?
We were never properly introduced. Susan and I were fighting that day. She called him by a nickname. Muns or Lunts or something.
Stens? Was it Stens?
Maybe. I don't know.
Look at a picture for me.
That's him. That's him.
You said a neighbor heard a ruckus. Was it outside, inside?
What's through here?
No! Please leave!
Don't mind the smell. I think a rat died behind the wall... My Susie was a good girl!
Easy. Tell me about the ruckus.
I came home that night and there was blood on the floor. Susan said Stams  Stens had cut himself. They were acting nervous. And that Stens kept going under the house.
Was it... a rat?
Yeah. A great big one.
You know him?
Seen him around. He used to be a cop.
Hey, partner. Grab a cup.
I got to write my report first.
Don't look so down in the mouth, Bud. You nailed him good.
Yeah, sure... I got a couple of hours before I have to be at the Victory. Want to grab a beer?
Rain check me, partner. I got something big going on tonight.
What? That new mystery girl you've been seeing?
No. I'll tell you sometime. Not now. Don't want to jinx it. But it could take the edge off that jail time I got coming.
What are you talking about?
It's confidential, Bud. Like that magazines Vincennes scams for. <u>HushHush</u>. I'll see you tomorrow. And hey, if it works out, you'll get a piece of it.
Lad, may I have a word with you?
This business, Captain?
Say goodnight to your friend and join me by those back tables.
Does that paper say we've been indicted? Does it say Exley's a hero for squealing me and Stensland off?
He made his play amd he got what he wanted. They're making him a detective.
Captain, what do you want?
Call me Dudley.
Dudley, what do you want?
Lad, I admire your refusal to testify and your loyalty to your partner. I admire you as a policeman, particularly your adherence to violence as a necessary adjutant to the job. And I am most impressed with your punishment of wife beaters. Do you hate them, Wendell?
Yeah, I hate them.
And for good reason judging from what I know of your background.
What's going to happen to Stensland? He'll give himself cirrhosis over this. <u>He's one</u> <u>year from his pension</u>.
It would've happened years ago if you hadn't carried him. Why the loyalty, Wendell?
He helped me out once. That's all.
Your partner's through. Department scapegoat on the Chief's orders. He's been billed, he'll be indicted and he'll swing.
Him and me both. <u>Fucking Exley</u>.
Don't underestimate his skills. As a politician he exceeds even myself. But the department needs smart men like Exley and... direct men like yourself
<u>What do you want</u>?
Wendell, I want you to come to work for me.
Doing what? Mowing your fucking lawn?
They're yours. Take them.
I knew you had juice, but... There's no goddamn bill on me?
Four of the defendants recanted their testimony.
How?
I need you for an assignment the Chief's given me the goahead on. A duty few men are fit for, but you were born for. You'll be working out of Homicide.
Homicide? A detective?
Will you work for me?
Of course... But how?
How what, Wendell?
How'd you get them to retract?
Give me one minute.
You've got it, Wendell.
You're perplexing to me these days, Wendell. You're not your old, cruel self anymore. I need proof that the extracurricular work I had planned for you remains within your grasp.
What work?
I've long been involved in containing hard crime in such a way that myself and a few colleagues might someday enjoy a profit dispensation. That day will soon be here and you'll share handsomely. Grand means will be in our hands, Wendell.
Imagine crime limited to the criminal element who perpetrate it. Imagine the means to keep the nigger filth sedated. But don't stop there. Extrapolate. Imagine the police in control. It's big, lad.
You lost me, Dudley. I don't know what you're talking about.
You have your extracurricular secrets, I have mine. We'll hold a clarification session soon. For now, I need your fearsome old habits at the Victory Motel. We're going to brace a man who may know who killed Jack Vincennes. Can I count on you?
Sure, boss. Sure you can.
Merry Christmas.
Merry Christmas yourself, <u>Officer</u>.
That obvious, huh?
It's practically stamped on your forehead.
Somebody hit you?
It's not what you think.
Can I get you a drink?
Yeah, plain scotch.
I was friendly with Sue Lefferts, but we weren't really friends. You know what I mean?
Are you sorry she's dead?
Of course I am. What kind of question is that?
Have you ever heard of Dick Stensland?
No I haven't. Do you know why Pierce is humoring you?
You use words like that, you might make me mad.
Yes. But do you know?
Yeah I know. Patchett's running whores and judging by his address, probably something bigger on the side. He doesn't want any attention.
That's right. Our motives are selfish, so we're cooperating.
Why was Susan Lefferts at the Nite Owl?
I don't know. I never heard of the Nite Owl till today.
Did Lefferts have a boyfriend?
Like I said we were friendly, not friends.
How'd she meet Patchett?
Pierce meets people. Sue came on the bus with dreams of Hollywood. This is how they turned out. Thanks to Pierce, we still get to act a little.
Tell me about Patchett.
He's waiting for you to mention mention.
You want some advice, Miss Bracken?
It's Lynn.
Miss Bracken, don't ever try to fucking bribe me or threaten me or I'll have you and Patchett in shit up to your ears.
I remember you from Christmas Eve. You have a thing for helping women, don't you, Officer White?
Maybe I'm just fucking curious.
You say 'fuck' a lot.
You fuck for money.
There's blood on your shirt. Is that an integral part of your job?
Yeah.
Do you enjoy it?
When they deserve it.
Did they deserve it today?
I'm not sure.
But you did it anyway.
Yeah, just like the half dozen guys you screwed today.
Actually, it was two. You're different, Officer White. You're the first man in five years who didn't tell me I look like Veronica Lake inside of a minute.
You look better than Veronica Lake. Now, <u>Pierce Patchett</u>.
He takes a cut of our earnings and invests it for us. He makes us quit the life at thirty. He doesn't let us use narcotics and he doesn't abuse us. Can your policeman's mentality grasp those contradictions?
He had you cut to look like Veronica Lake?
No. I'm really a brunette, but the rest is me. And that's all the news that's fit to print.
Look. I want to see you again.
Are you asking me for a date or an appointment?
I don't know.
If it's a date I think you'd better tell me your first name because I 
Forget I asked. It was a mistake.
I wondered when you might ring the bell again, Officer White.
It's Bud.
It doesn't matter. All they get is Veronica Lake. You got the real Lynn Margaret Bracken... Where'd this come from?
When I was ten, my old man threw a bottle at my mother. I guess I got in the way.
So you saved her.
Yeah. But not for long.
Do you like being a cop, Bud?
I used to. What I do now is strongarm. Sitting duck stuff... No, I don't like it. If I could work Homicide like a real detective...
You found Patchett. You found me. You're smart enough. Be a detective if that's what you want.
That simple, huh?
Did you talk to Exley?
Come in out of the rain. In the morning we'll have both our stories for breakfast.
I want to know about Exley.
He's the opposite of you. He's more like me. Cold, calculating.
How'd you get to know so much about him?
Come in out of the rain, Bud.
You gonna tell me what happened with you and Exley?
We talked.
So tell me about it.
In the morning.
No. Now. You fucked him.
How's the left these days?
What's it to you?
I saw you fight Kid Gavilan. I like your style.
What do you want, Mr. Policeman?
You got a brother up in Folsom. I know because I put him there.
Till 19fucking70.
How'd you like to make it 1960? I know the judge and Sergeant Exley here is friends with hte D.A.
We're looking for three colored guys who like to pop off shotguns. One of 'em owns a purple Merc coupe.
You wanna get me a fuckin' snitch jacket?
You wanna buy your brother ten years...? You don't have to say anything. Just look at this list and point. Here.
Hey, Tammy, guess what happened today.
Don't you fucking knock?
Yeah. So guess what happened. So Mr. McAllister, he  Oh hi. Lisa.
Paul, get out!
So Mr. M. calls me in and tells me 
You dumbshit!
What'd I do?
You know how they say one day a big meteor might come and crash into the Earth and kill everybody? Well, I think that would be a good thing.
What do you want?
Oh. Hi, Tammy. I was just, you know, I went to all your teachers and got your assignments.
I just thought, well, last time you got suspended you fell so behind and 
Okay, Paul. Thanks. Thanks a lot.
Now could you leave me alone?
Yeah. Oh, one more thing. Tammy. You know, all this election stuff. 'Cause, you know, everyone is saying it's so weird that you're running against me, and, well, it is kind of weird, and you haven't really told me why you're doing it and didn't tell me in advance or anything. But that's okay, you know. l respect your privacy. I just want you to know that no matter who wins, if it's you or me, there's no hard feelings. We're still brother and sister. Okay? Cause... and I hope you feel the same.
Sure, Paul. No hard feelings.
Okay. Great. I feel good.
Who put you up to this?
Huh? Oh, hi, Tracy
Who put you up to this?
What do you mean?
You just woke up this morning and suddenly decided to run for president?
No. Uh... I just... you know, I just thought 
Thought what?
Well, see, I was talking to Mr. McAllister about my leg and everything... and how I still want to, you know, do something for the school and 
So Mr. McAllister asked you to run.
Well, I mean, you know, I talked to him and everything, but he just said he thought it was a good idea... and how there's all different kinds of fruit and... It's nothing against you, Tracy. You're the best. I just thought 
Okay, Mr. Popular. You're on.
Way to go, Tracy! Isn't this exciting?
Yeah.
Hell, good luck!
Good luck to you too, Paul.
Thanks!
Paul, I just want you to know that no matter how this turns out, you've run a wonderful campaign. It's been fun competing with you.
Yeah, you too, Tracy. I'm just glad it's over.
Yeah.
You know, I don't understand why everybody badmouthed Tracy all the time. She was always super nice to me.
Paul, will you sign my yearbook?
Sure, Tracy.
Can I sign yours too?
Oh, yeah, sure. Hey Nolan, give my book to Tracy when you're done*
Yes, Paul?
Have a great summer. And good luck at college.
Thanks. You too. It was great working with you.
Uhhh... teeth. Teeth.
Sorry.
We can't both run, can we? We're brother and sister. Can we?
It's a conflict of interest. And Paul was first.
She's doing this to get back at me
For what?
I mean at you.
For what?
I don't know. You're her brother you should know.
We still have some extra ones, don't we? Maybe we can just 
It was Tammy I That's who it was.
Oh, no, hey. Like I said. Tammy wouldn't... she...
What?
I told you ... I can't. I just  It doesn't feel right anymore, you know?
Where 're you going?
I'm not like you.
What...?
I'm not a dyke, okay, and we're not in love. We were just... I was just experimenting.
Are you crazy?
What?
People can see this.
So?
These are private  these are for us.
I know.
But other people can see them too.
I don't care.
Well, I do.
253... 254... 255. I get the same as you Jim. Looks like Paul's our president.
No way I It doesn't make sense.
Sorry. My figures work out exactly the same as Jim's. 256 for Paul, 255 for Tracy.
And 290 "disregards," right?
If you say so.
Whoa! Easy, Fouch. I don't like where you're going.
I'm telling you. Dr. Hendricks, every vote was accounted for.
You said I was a liar You're the liar, you're the 
Larry, you just take it easy
Paul, I know you've been pretty down since your accident.
I wanted to play next year so bad I could taste it. And maybe go on to...
I know. I understand disappointment. I really do.
Yeah.
But you've got a big choice right now. You can choose to be depressed about it for the rest of your life. Or you can choose to see it for what it really is: an opportunity. I personally think you have a big future ahead of you, and I don't mean the fleeting glory of sports.
What do you mean?
Let me give you a clue. You're a born leader. You're one of the most popular students at Millard. You're honest and straightforward. You don't choke under pressure, as we all saw in that amazing fourth quarter against Westside. The other kids look up to you. What does that spell?
Who, me? Nooo. I never... I don't know anything about that stuff, Mr. M. Besides, that's Tracy Flick's thing. She's always working so hard and 
Yeah, no, she's a gogetter, all right.
And she's supernice
Yeah. But one person assured of victory kind of undermines the whole idea of a democracy, doesn't it? That's more like a... well, like a dictatorship, like we studied.
Paul, what's your favorite fruit?
Huh? Oh. Uh... pears
takes a piece of chalk from the lip of the blackboard.
Okay, let's say
No, wait  apples. Apples.
Fine. Let's say all you ever knew was apples. Apples, apples and more apples. You might think apples were pretty good, even if you occasionally got a rotten one. Then one day there's an orange. And now you can make a decision. Do you want an apple, or do you want an orange? That's democracy.
I also like bananas.
Exactly. So what do you say? Maybe it's time to give a little something back.
Oh, no. No. I'm just finishing up here, and I've got to get home.
Why don't you guys go sit down, okay? I'll catch up in a minute? I want to talk to Mr. M. about some important stuff.
And on Halloween we could have a haunted house. But a really good haunted house, not like those cheesy bad ones. You know, more like the radio station ones. This one would be really scary. And for Homecoming  well, you know how last year's theme was 
Paul... Paul.... We'll have plenty of time to get into all this later. A whole year, in fact. Right now I just need to finish my pie and get home.
Oh, okay. Yeah, sorry.
Just one more thing. So, Mr. M., uh, do you think Tracy's going to be okay? I saw her face after the assembly, and I think she's taking it pretty hard.
Don't worry about Tracy. She'll be fine.
After Dave got fired, Sherry kicked him out of the house and filed for divorce.
Your novel? Are you fucking kidding me?
Could you get this? I can't
Sure.
Without Dave around. Sherry needed a lot of help around the house.
Here?
More this way.
Okay. Give me the drill.
I can't afford this stuff right now.
Oh, come on. You've had a hard year, you're cooped up with the kid all the time. Let go; live a little.
You sure?
So what do you think? Should we get a room?
Should we get a what?
points at the motel.
Oh.
Shall we give it a name?
Dave.
Did you know Dave's a bed wetter?
No, I... uh, didn't know that
All his life. He's tried everything.
Still clear?
Yep.
We'll let it run awhile
Hey Yeah?
Take me to that motel. Like you wanted.
Right now?
Easy, tiger. Come by after school. I'll leave Darryl with the sitter.
Three twentyfive.
Three twentyfive.
What do you want, Jim?
You're there.
Yeah. I'm here.
Sherry... I love you.
Don't say that. You know it's not true.
It's the only true thing I know anymore.
We made a mistake. Let's not make it worse.
A mistake? That was no mistake.
I was lonely. You took advantage
Me? I took advantage of you? You hugged me! You kissed me! You're the one who 
You wanted to see me, Mr. M.?
Just wait outside. Tammy.
Okay. But is this about the posters?
Possibly. Please just wait outside.
Okay. Because I know who did it. So.. I'll just be outside.
So... what do you have to tell me?
Well, this is hard for me, but I think it's important to be honest. Don't you?
What is it. Tammy?
I'm the one. I did it. I tore down Paul's posters.
Looks at her skeptically doesn't say a word.
I did it.
And when did you do it?
This weekend.
Exactly when?
I don't know. Yesterday. Sunday.
And how did you get in the school?
Door was open.
Which door?
I don't know. All I know is I did it I
I don't believe you.
I have proof.
Life would go on, and I would certainly be a stronger and wiser person from the experience.
Uh, Jim?
Hmm?
Walt needs to see you.
Oh. Okay.
Walt will be speaking with you about this, but I need you to find someone to take over my classes. The lesson plans for the rest of the year are in my top right drawer.
Okay, Jim. I understand.
Thanks. Well. I'm going home now.
That little bitch made a fool of us I want her out of the election. Getting everybody all riled up like that. She's finished, you hear me? Washed up.
Walt, we can't throw her out of the election just because we don't like her speech. That's not what student government's about.
Yeah... whatever. All I know is she's a troublemaker. She's on my list.
Jim, where the hell have you been?
Nowhere. I don't have class until second period.
Even tried you at home. We've got a situation here.
Well, that speech she gave  it was pretty, you know, pretty out there. But we'll get to the bottom of it. Don't you worry. Mr. McAllister is going to see to that. Right, Jim?
Oh yeah, you bet.
Good morning, Mr. McAllister.
Not wasting any time, are you, Tracy?
You know what they say about the early bird.
Yes, I do.
Well, good luck there, Tracy
Thanks, Mr. M.
Okay. But we're still missing something key here. What are we missing?
I know.
Tracy.
Ethics are...
Now at the end of her junior year, Tracy was poised to win the presidency of the student body. And so far she was running unopposed.
...the rules of conduct determined by a culture at a...
Oh. There's one more thing about Tracy I think you should know.
I got all my signatures. One hundred and fiftyeight  way more than I need!
Hey, that's super
Here they are.
You can put those in my box. I'll look at them tomorrow.
Could you approve them now? I'd like to kick off my campaign right away, you know, in the morning.
Right
Looks good to me.
Aren't you supposed to keep them?
NO, that's fine
I thought you were supposed to keep them.
Okay, fine. Sure
Thanks for everything.
You bet.
I can't wait to start campaigning.
Should be easy. So far no competition.
Hell, you know, CocaCola's the world's number one soft drink, but they spend more money than anybody on advertising. I guess that's how come they stay number one.
Yeah. Okay. well, good luck Tracy
You know, Mr. M., when I win the presidency, that means you and I are going to be spending a lot of time together next year. And I for one would like that time to be harmonious and productive. Wouldn't you?
Sure
Okay. That's good. I just wanted to make sure.
Good luck, Tracy.
Fuck me, Mr. McAllister
So like I was saying, things were going pretty well in my life.
You're the advisor. You should stop her. She's not qualified. She's just a sophomore.
Calm down, Tracy. Just calm down.
Are you sure all her signatures are real? It's not easy to get all those signatures.
As far as I know, they
These are a bunch of burnouts. And look at this one, I can't even read this one.
Looks like Tim Kobza.
Tim Kobza? Tim Kobza! Who's he? I've never heard of him!
Look, why don't we just forget about Tammy? We'll have the assembly tomorrow, everybody'll make their speeches, and I'm sure everything will be fine.
I guess you know why you're here
If it's about the posters, I think it's so awful. It's a travesty.
A travesty. Huh. That's interesting, because I think you did it.
Wait  are you accusing me? You're not serious. I can't... Mr. McAllister, we have worked together on SGA for three solid years and... I mean, I can't believe it. I'm... I'm shocked!
Mr. M., I am running on my qualifications. I would never need to resort to, you know, to vandalism like a, you know... Plus, my own best banner was torn down. Did I do that too?
Were you or were you not working in the Watchdog office over the weekend?
I was. So? Mr. Pecharda let me in. As you know, with all my responsibilities I often come in on the weekend and have permission to do so. But I left very early, around 6:30.
6:30. How do you know what time the posters were torn down?
I don't. I just know they were there when I left. I'm giving you helpful information is all. You know, instead of wasting time interrogating me, we should be out there trying to find out who did this.
Okay, Tracy, so who do you think did it? Whom should we "interrogate?"
well, I don't know. It could have been anybody. There are a lot of, you know, subversive elements around Millard. You know, like Rick Thieson and Kevin Speck and those burnouts. Or Doug Schenken  what about him? Or what about Tammy Metzier? Her whole thing is being anti this and antithat.
You're a very intelligent girl, Tracy. You have many admirable qualities. But someday maybe you'll learn that being smart and always being on top and doing whatever you need to do to get ahead, and yes, stepping on people to get there, well, there's a lot more to life than that. And in the end, you're only cheating yourself.
Why are you lecturing me?
This isn't the time or the place to get into it, but there is, for just one example, a certain former colleague of mine, who made a very big mistake, a life mistake. I think the lesson there is that, old and young, we ail make mistakes, and we have to learn that our actions, all of them, can carry serious consequences. You're very young, Tracy underage, in fact  but maybe one day you'll understand.
I don't know what you're referring to, but I do know that if certain older and wiser people hadn't acted like such little babies and gotten all mushy, everything would be okay.
I agree. But I also think certain young and naive people need to thank their lucky stars and be very, very grateful the whole school didn't find out about certain indiscretions which could have ruined their reputations, and chances to win certain elections.
And I think certain older persons like you and your "colleague" shouldn't be leaching after their students, especially when some of them can't even get their own wives pregnant. And they certainly shouldn't be running around making slanderous accusations. Especially when certain young, naive people's mothers are paralegal secretaries at the city's biggest law firm and have won many successful lawsuits. And if you want to keep questioning me like this, I won't continue without my attorney present.
Yes?
Looks like today's your lucky day
What do you mean?
You're off the hook. Tammy here has confessed.
I told you! I told you! You're going to pay for my banner!
That's enough, Tracy. Quit while you're ahead, okay? I'll handle this. Could you ask Walt to come in?
Act surprised. Walk slowly to the podium. Be modest. Thank them for this incredible honor.
That said, the whole point of an election is to choose winners, and that you have done. We'll begin with president.
Hello, Mr. M.
Hello, Tracy.
So what brings you here?
I'm looking at new cars.
Oh. New cars. I see. Well, you came to the right place
My mother's buying me a new car for college.
Huh. Right. College. Wow. Where are you going? Where 'd you get into?
Well, I got in everywhere I applied, but Cornell is my first choice.
Good for you. Good for you
So, are you looking for something sporty or more practical?
Sporty.
Where to?
Anywhere you want. Just so long as we're not gone more than a halfhour.
Handles pretty good, don't you think?
Yeah.
Plenty of pep, too.
Uhhuh.
And this model comes with ABS and dual air bags standard.
That sounds good.
So Tracy?
Yes?
Why are you doing this?
Doing what?
Coming to see me. Are you trying to. . humiliate me?
Nooo. I just thought... l mean, I am looking for a new car. But I just thought, well, I'm going away soon, and you'll be stuck here and, I don't know, I just think maybe if things had been different we might have been, well, friends. Real friends. And then things would be different. Don't you think?
Well, I... I... that's very nice of you.
I've got an idea.
What's this?
My house.
I want you to do something for me.
Swallows, unsure what heaven or hell awaits him.
I just have to get something. I'll be right back.
Oh, is this...? God. First one of these I haven't been in for a long time.
Would you sign it for me?
What a surprise.
Take as much room as you want
I'm scared, Mr. M. I kind of don't feel ready for college.
You'll be fine.
I hope so
You will.
What? Right. So let's start counting.
Well, I thought that... well, the way it always works is that SGA president does a count, then the SGA advisor, you know, for the two independent counts.
Fine. So do your count. Start with president, and I'll be right back.
You have the key, Mr. McAllister.
I just want to get this over with, so we can have the assembly and go home. We don't have much time until eighth period. I have other things going on, too, you know.
Okay. Yeah. We know
All right. I'll be back
What d'you got?
I'm not supposed to tell. Not until you've counted too. We're each supposed to make an independent count.
You're kidding, right?
I thought those were the rules, Mr. McAllister. If they've changed in any way 
Larry, we're not electing the fucking Pope here. Just tell me who won.
Mr. M.?
Huh. Okay. Well, I guess I'd better do my count.
Larry?
Yeah?
I think we've got a problem.
Mostly Tammy fans
See, it doesn't add up. There are only 801 ballots but 803 people voted. Two votes are missing. Check the register.
He's right. Two people must have pocketed their ballots. Usually it's more.
But, they were there I counted 803 votes.
It happens, Larry. People make mistakes.
I didn't make a mistake. Every vote was there when you sac down
Larry? We've got twentyfive minutes until the assembly, and we still have to do counts for VP, Treasurer and Secretary. Mr. Hendricks and I have both verified the numbers, and unless you can come up with the ballots you claim are missing 
But, Mr. M. 
Don't you smartass me! Don't you dare smartass me! You just shut your mouth I Now your mother and I have had a long talk with Halt Hendricks  we just got off the phone with him at home. You know, he doesn't want you back at Millard. He's fed up with you. Fed up! And I don't blame him!
Dick... Dick,..
What?
Tammy, now we've come to a decision. He just think it would be best 
You're going to Catholic school next year. You're going to Sacred Heart. Maybe they'll straighten you out!
Having a problem with your eye there?
Dick.
All right. Well, sure nice to meet you.
So nice
Thank God for Diane. She was my best friend, my source of love and strength. Oh sure, we'd had our share of bumpy times, but we'd always seen them through. After nine years of marriage, we were closer than ever. And the secret? Good communication.
Anything wrong?
Everything's fine. Just, you know, school.
Around that time Diane and I were hanging out a lot at Sherry Novotny's house, giving her our love and support and helping her make it through a difficult time.
Jim, don't. You're scaring him.
He likes it.
You gonna do it? You gonna do it?
Yeah, uh, just a minute
Come on, doit. Doit. Fill me up. Come on, fill me up
Yeah, just 
Do it!
How'd it go?
Fine. You know. We just went to Crossroads.
You guys have fun?
Yeah. No. I mean, you know.
What?
Well, Sherry's great. But she can be a little much sometimes.
One night he took us editors out to celebrate after a deadline. Eventually Dave and I were left alone and we got to talking  not like teacher and student, but like two adults.
You know, Tracy... I don't know how to say this, but...
what?
Well, I notice you don't seem to have any close friends at Millard. You seem to be kind of a loner.
No, I'm not. I'm just really busy.
I know. I know its not by choice. I just mean, well, being the kind of person you are, it must be really difficult to find someone you can talk to.
What do you mean? What kind of person am I?
What kind of person?
Tracy, I've been watching you for going on two years now, and I think you are one of the most talented, hardworking, sensitive, attractive, brilliant students  no, human beings  I have ever met. I mean, you're the real thing. Special.
Thank you.
And I know sometimes people like you have to pay a price for their greatness, and that price is loneliness.
It was the first time somebody ever saw the real me, the me that nobody else knows.
Here, get down.
A few months before the election, she'd had an affair with my best friend Dave Novotny.
Don't tell me that. I don't want to know that.
She's incredible. Everything just gets soaked.
You could tell Dave was one of those guys who taught because they never wanted to leave high school in the first place, and that could get a little irritating sometimes, but basically he was a real good guy.
Foxy. . . Foxy. . . You know you're a cute little heartbreaker... Foxy... You know you're a sweet little love maker...
You did it at your house? Your own house?
Look, Jim... Okay. I know it all seems crazy, and maybe it did start out, you know, for the... for the sex and the danger. But now it's different. Jim, what I'm trying to tell you is that Tracy and I are totally, totally in love.
In love?
Yeah, it's serious. I mean she inspires me in ways Sherry never has. She even wants to read my novel.
But you haven't written your novel.
That's the whole point. It's all in my head; it's right here. I just got to get it out there. Tracy wants me to write it so she can read it. It's beautiful.
Dave, I'm just saying this as your friend. What you're doing is really, really wrong, and you've got to stop.
You're not just jealous, are you? I mean, we both used to talk about her
That was just talk! Fantasy talk! What are you, nuts? We talk about girls all the time, but it doesn't mean anything. I would never. . . I mean, I take very seriously our strict moral code. The line you've crossed is... it's illegal and it's immoral.
I don't need a lecture on ethics, Jim, okay? I know what 
I'm not talking about ethics. I'm talking about morals.
Sherry Sherry Sheerrry. ...
He ended up moving back to Milwaukee to live with his parents. I haven't heard from him in a long time. Poor guy. I warned him.
Yo 
pierdo.
Tu
pierdes.
El/ella 
pierde.
Sign here, please.
That Ray was a pig. Ed is doll. You latch on to him honey.
By the X.
Some more makeup wouldn't do you any harm. On TV you look a little washed out.
What would I actually have to do to get you to sign this?
Oh, an TV a minute and already an attitude.
By the X. That's were two lines cross  forming an X.
Look, can we all just sign the releases so we can get on with this?
What happened? You described this "crazykooky" family who'd be a million laughs on TV?
We don't have foibles.
Everyone has foibles. Then the whole country sees them on TV and mocks them. Then we have... mocked foibles.
Look, my life is not so great, that I want it shown on television. And neither is yours.
That's the point  this could change things.
How?
For instance... me and my friend Bucky are buying out my boss. His equipment, trucks, client list, the whole shmear.
What does that have to do with... ?
If they keep Ed on for one full month, he gets a balloon payment.
That girl's an idiot.
What?... Why?
Hi.
Hi.
I'm Jill. I really like your show. I think you're great.
Thanks... That's ...
Oh, yeah, I love those. Yeah... those are funny...
Well, it was really nice meeting you and, uh... I'd better get a cab.
Um... They gave me a limo, uh...
Oh, great! Thanks. I'm just going uptown.
Oh!!
We have to stop meeting like this.
Hm?
Are you busy tomorrow night?
No.
Why don't you come over. And I'11 make dinner. And you bring a movie. And ... We'11 make a night of it ... okay?
Sure.
Can I help with anything?
No. It's going to be about a halfhour.
What is? Oh, dinner!
Mm.
Good?
Mm.
Ohhh...
Ed?
Ohh... do you own a cat?
Yeah. Why?
Hello.
Hi.
You don't recognize me.
No. Am I supposed to?
Who is it?
It's Ed.
Quite a shithole, isn't it?
It could be, if you fixed it up. How did you... ? I mean how does anyone ... wind up like this?
I was in jail.
The whole time? Eighteen years?
No. Two times.
What...
Check forging.
Oh, man! So...
The last two years, I've been a limousine driver, but I don't see well anymore, so...
So you saw me on TV and you said "Hey, let me jump on this."
I need help. How many times if just one little thing that I needed would've happened, it would've changed everything. If I had a few dollars when an opportunity came along or... the tumblers just never clicked for me.
All right... This is my father, I don't know what the hell he can do, but if anyone out there can help him  get him a job  I'11 ... help you. I'11 ... mention your business or ... I don't know, we'11 figure it out. I gotta go.
Ed... I'm sorry.
Yeah? That's good. Sorry is good. You know I finished that model.
What...
The pirate ship.
 That we were doing "together." I finished it. It came out great! Because no one was standing over my shoulder bothering me  "That's too much glue. You're using too much glue."
Do you still have it?
No. Ray sat on it. I'11 see you.
Ray, where do you keep the glasses?
Oh, is Shari here? Why didn't you just say so? Why are you giving me a songanddance about being tired?
Hi, Shari.
Who's Shari?
Who's 
Mr. Pekurny. I'm sorry to bother you. My son would just love to have your autograph.
No problema. You want a picture?
No  keep it.
I love you! 1 want to marry you!
What's up?
Where were you?
I was... having dinner with Shari and her parents.
What do you mean all of a sudden? You've been going with her six months.
I know. I mean I'm sitting there and her father's asking me about my "career prospects" and I'm playing "Risk," with her kid brother, Leon and at dinner the dog's sniffing at my balls  at least I hope it was the dog. 'Cause her mother disappeared for a while.
You know, that would be like a great thing.
What?
That! Being that guy. Being the guy they watch.
What are you drunk?
Yeah, but let's stay on one subject. Whoever that person is is going to be famous. They'll be able to get whatever they want. They'll ... trust me, this is my business.
What is?!
Show business.
You're in show business?
Yeah. I service video equipment.
That's like... those people stitching Nikes in Panama saying they're in the NBA.
I'm not stitching Nikes in Panama! ... Bedwetter!
Thumbsucker!
I'm making a tape.
We're excited.
I got your message. Way to go!
Hi, Shari. Let's go in the stockroom.
I ... I'm not gonna do it.
What?
Look  there's a million ways to humiliate yourself  I gotta think of a new way? I mean, it's all day! Every minute. Id be like a monkey at the zoo. I just...
Oh man! They couldn't pick me! They had to pick you!
You would do this? You would actually 
In a second! In a hot second. Let me ask you something 
Why do you do that?
What?
Whenever you ask me something why do you always say "Let me ask you something?" Why don't you just ask me?
All right. Let me ask you something... are you happy like this?
I'm doing all right.
Oh Yeah? What's your master plan here?
You're gonna be a video store clerk for the rest of your life? This is your big ambition, rearranging the "Ernest" movies?
Screw off.
How many opportunities are you going to get in your life?
I don't know.
That's right. You don't know. Doors don't fly open for guys like us.
Hey. You know we're not the same. I got a good life, this job suits me. I come and go when I please 
Oh, don't bullshit a bullshitter. If you're happy like this you're an idiot, and you're not an idiot. Hi.
All right.
Yeah?!
Yeah.
Polish acrobat.
Hey. Check this out. Look at this.
Okay, I just wanted to get your attention. My name is Ray and my friend Bucky and I design video systems. You've got an office or a big home, we'11 come out there design you an entire system.
See, they should've picked him. Look how comfortable he is out there.
Hey, Ed. Did you hear about Marcia?
No. What happened?
That's our sister. She's got a new boyfriend.
Ray, maybe this isn't ...
No, this is great. You'll love this. He's a singer.
Marcia's living with a singer?
Yeah. You know, piano bars. plays the piano and sings. That's how they met.
I mean my question is what was she doing in a bar in the first place?
Ray 
She's an alcoholic, for Christ's sake.
Oh, Jesus.
Remember the last guy she got involved with? What was his name?
What's the dif 
Richie! She spent six months dating a criminal
She didn't know he was a criminal. They had a relationship. They 
"Quick pull off the highway" is not a relationship. Oh man, I gotta pee.
What are you, hiding from the Police? Show your face, you look great. Doesn't she look great.
Great.
While I'm gone, tell them about our cousin Lenny who's gay. We knew from when he was five.
Who is it?
It's me, Ed.
Hi.
You watching the ballgame?
Uh, no, uh I'm a little tired. I fell asleep.
Oh. All right. I'11 watch at home, then.
Yeah...
Hello... Shari, hi... Oh no! ... Oh God!
We'd better go...
What is this? What's going on, who is that?
It's the receptionist at one of the places I service video equipment  she's very pretty and, you know, she never even talks to me and then today I come in and she's all "I saw you on TV the other night... You were so great ... " Next thing I know we're ...
Next thing you know! Why didn't you stop?
Stop? I'm a guy. I don't stop. The woman's supposed to stop. We're the gas, they're the brakes.
I don't even know her. All I know is she likes Snapple.
No, not her. Shari. Go over there and talk to her
Why me?
You brought the cameras here!
You brought the girl!
Please!
If I go over to Shari, the camera's going there, too.
... Ray?
Yeah.
Oh, man, I've been trying to call you.
I know.
Look, we gotta talk.
Save it.
What are we gonna fight? Ray, please, listen to me 
Cassie...
Goodbye, brother!
Ray, come an
Cliff left her, thanks to you.
Me?!
That's right. You put Cliff on television. So then he decided he was too good for her and he left.
I put his  who  Look, Marsh, he's not that good a singer, he'll be back.
Come on, Ma.
Let's remember how I got into this. "Please, Eddie, do this for me. I can't get a break."
You know what your problem is?
Yeah. My problem is I've got a brother who writes a sentence like "We grew up in a small, little bedroom." As opposed to a big, little bedroom?
I got paid by the word! No! Your problem is you don't ever want anything to be your fault.
Me?! That's you!
I commit. I take a chance. You wanted to be the guy on TV, but you didn't want to say you wanted to. So you have me talk you into it so you get what you want, but if it goes bad it's not your fault.
And each contestant gets one of these. An "I tried to screw a network executive" teeshirt.
A hundred per cent cotton. Okay, here we go, Andy.
Yeah...
I hear the dog really liked him.
Oh, the whole family loved him. Of course, they loved the last guy I went out with, and he strung me along for three years and dumped me.
Really? You see, to me, you shouldn't have any trouble with men. There should be, like, a line behind you.
Are you sure about this?
Hey, believe me 1 know I've got a great chance of making a fool of myself, here.
Why do it?
I saw this show once. It was about logging. I was home sick, there was nothing else on. Do you know how they break up really bad log jams? You know, when they're really tangled... ?
Cream rinse?
Dynamite.
So?
So maybe this is my dynamite.
Dynamite is dangerous.
You do though, you look great.
Right.
No, no, I  as soon as you came in tonight I said to John, "Boy Shari looks beautiful." I said it on TV so you can ask anybody who saw it.
What do you want?!
Shari, I'm just really sorry. Look, I know this is... unbelievably awkward, but if I could come in for like a second and  you know  just say... two words, then...
Don't defend that horse's ass to me.
I'm not. I'm not. I'm just Look  you know, in a way, it's good. He got this out of his system now and he knows it's not worth it and, you know, someday if you guys got married or something 
Ha!
Okay ...
I've got news for you I never intended to marry him.
Oh... how come?
I mean bad.
Look, not having been there... I just think you're hurt and you're saying this to, you know, get back at him.
Really?
Yeah.
Oh my God.
It's... okay
I kissed my boyfriend's brother on television!
Well, when you put it that way.
Leave. Go.
Can't we just 
Go!
All right. Okay. I'11 ... see you.
Really?
Yeah. I mean for months I've been seeing you with Ray you being his girlfriend and I kept wishing you were my girlfriend... But, you know, what could I do?
Me too. I mean I'm going out with Ray and I'm... thinking about you.
Really?
Oh God, this is so weird.
Weird? If this happened last month it would've been weird. Now with... the TV and... now it's just too weird.
What are you doing?
I missed you.
You know, I never saw you in your uniform before.
Yeah, well...
It's really a tremendous turnoff.
You should see the one we wear when it rains.
Sunday night at the Devils game, I'm driving the Zamboni.
The what?
You know, the big machine that cleans the ice.
Oh yeah.
It's quite an honor. Will you come with me?
Oh  Sunday is good for me to meet your folks. We get a big family audience on Sundays so it works out.
That's lucky.
Saturday, I think we should
I wish my stepfather was here.
Why?
He could give me some oxygen.
Um...
What?
I told you. If we... you know do it, they go away until ... we're done.
I know, but even if they go away, everybody in America knows what we're doing because... they went away.
So? What do they think  we're not kids 
I know, I ...
Shari, I really like you...
I really like you too...
...if this ... ... weren't here... ?
... yeah, then, but...
So...?
Ed... I think we should stop seeing each other.
I have no privacy. Even now! I'm crying and I can't stop and they won't go away. And now it's going to be another month!
Shari...
Everybody hates me!
No. Who?
Look at this.
Page three of the Post.
Ohh...
A poll. "Is Shari Good Enough for Ed?" Seventyone per cent said "no." They hate me!
Who cares? I don't ca  No. I do care. Shame on everybody. Shame on you! Well, just the seventyone percent. The other...
Twentynine.
Exactly. Boy, you're smart. Why are you so mean to her? What did she do to you? "Is she good enough for Ed?" Who the hell am I? Who the hell do you think I should be dating?
There's a list.
Really?
Ed?
I tried to tell you over the phone  my parents went to Atlantic City.
So?
So my little brother's staying here. I'm sleeping with Rita.
Oh Je  couldn't he sleep with Rita? We'11 all have a good time.
I'm sorry.
Come on, let's go.
Where?
Somewhere.
I feel like a criminal or, like we're cheating on someone.
Just... just relax. Okay? We won't do anything. We'11 just sit here for a while.
Okay.
Come on...
I need to talk.
Are you all right?
She lied to me. I mean all my life, she's telling me one story and then... it turns out to be a completely different story. Come to me at some point  tell me the truth. No. Not in my house. The truth is a stranger. And this is why Ray and Marcia are the way they are. Marcia gets involved with all these losers and sees no problem with herself  "How do they find me" she says. Ray cheats on you and then blames me for it. I'm the only one in the family who takes any responsibility for himself... Oh, man... Are you all right?
Yeah... I saw that girl come on to you at the TV show.
Oh that was... no, I ... she just kind of trapped me into giving her a ride. It's you. I want you.
...yeah?
It's not their fault.
No. It's your fault.
What do you want me to do? You want me to quit the show?!
No... Could you?
No. If I quit I don't get the balloon payment.
The what?
Ray borrowed this whole tub of money against this balloon payment that I don't get if I qu  it's too complicated. I  Besides...
What?
You see how people look at me. Like when they ask for my autograph or say "Hi" to me... It's like I'm a basketball player or a... you know, like I'm someone.
Everybody's someone.
Well, yeah, everybody's someone. But I mean someone they want to be. I mean let's face it, I'm working in the video store, no one's coming in saying "oh, I wish I was that guy. 1 wish was rewinding that huge pile of tapes." At least for a month I'm not just a guy with a name tag. I'm famous.
This is going right up your ass.
Come on.
Kinda'.
It's what I do. I yell "Geronimo" and jump out of a relationship.
You weren't able to make me feel safe or secure  no easy job for any man, I admit  and my problem is, if I think I'm losing, I pull myself out of the game. I bail. See? I told you, I'm the love coroner.
What did you do to your hair?
My truck overheated, so I opened the hood and my hair got caught in the fan belt. So I had to get a haircut.
It's nice.
Let's have a contest. Now this would mostly be open to professional investigators and detectives. But anyone can join in.
What do we have to do?
My lovely assistant, Shari. I'm glad you asked. The contest is who can dig up  legally, of course  I'm not suggesting that anyone break any laws  the most embarrassing and humiliating facts about any of the executives here at the North American Broadcasting System which owns Real TV.
But facts! They have to be verified. Anything from their past, their present, business, personal  arrests, affairs ... And whoever comes up with the sleaziest, most degrading material  I'11 give you ten thousand dollars. And you get to be on Ed TV. Hah?
So act now. Here's Ed's home phone number.
Um, yeah, I was gonna ...
What's the deal? Did anybody make a decision 
Ed, look, uh... you're not getting the job. They're gonna transfer someone from another store to manage this store when I leave to manage the new store. I'm sorry.
Oh, Christ. Did you go to bat for me?
I batted!
You batted or you bunted?
Hey. I went as far as I felt comfortable. I mean, you know, let's face it  you come and go here as you please. You work when you feel like it  you know, Bruce Springsteen's birthday is not a legal holiday.
Well, then I'm quitting.
Ed, come on. What's that gonna do? You're gonna bring Blockbuster to their knees. Let me recommend a movie to you. It's called "Get your shit together before it's too late."
Who's in it?
Hey, Lou.
Welcome to work, Ed.
Are you asking me?
No, I mean...
What does this mean?
It means they hate his freaking guts. It means if he were on fire they wouldn't put him out.
He's just ... trying a little too hard 
How much less?
Never would be plenty.
I can't do that to him. He's pushing a little too hard  but... I just can't do that to him.
No! I barely even mentioned it's just that, my friends, the people at work, whoever I'm regularly in contact with they want releases from.
They're gonna mock our foibles.
Our what?
Our foibles, our foibles!
What are you doing?
Hm? I'm, uh... Why isn't this drunken woman you?
Oh! Oh  okay, now I get it. It's "Star Search." You wanted me here because the camera comes with me.
Ed, he needs a break. You don't know what kind of bad luck he's had 
I can imagine. You said you wanted nothing to do with this. You swore to me. "Don't come near me. Don't bring this into my life..."
Well, Ed, that's ... not really possible.
All right, I'11 pay for the parking. Big network!
I can't?
Well, no. You agreed to stay on the air as long as we asked you to. The station entered into this on that understanding. If you had refused we'd have begun this with somebody else. You can't just change the rules in the middle of the game, son. It's not fair to us. More importantly, it's not fair to the viewers. They're interested in you. They've devoted hours and days and weeks of their lives to you.
Look, if you don't let me out of this... I'11 just... I'11 just sit in my apartment all day. I won't go anywhere, I won't do anything. What kind of show will that be?
Not too good. That's why it states in your contract that if you do not continue to live a normal life, you're in violation and are liable for the station's financial losses. Ed, I urge you to reconsider. I urge you on behalf of all those people out there whose lives have become so entwined with yours. Play fair with them, Ed.
All right. Let them decide.
What's going on over there?
Everybody's making audition tapes for that Real TV thing.
Right, yeah 
She really doesn't want you and the camera in here right now.
No, I understand. That's  where is she, is she all right?
Hi, Mom.
Shari, Ray feels 
Hi. Is Shari here?
No.
What is she, at work?
She left.
Well, when will she be back?
She won't.
What are you talking about?
She left. She moved. She got FedEx to give her a transfer and she left. She couldn't stand it anymore. We had people, news people, regular people, just sleeping in our hallway, going through our mail, our garbage. I mean it was she couldn't take it anymore. Now I've got to move. I can't afford this place by myself.
I'm sorry. Where'd they send her?
She wouldn't tell me.
Eddie? ...
Yeah?
Are the TV people with you?
Yeah. The camera guy is here.
Send him away.
Send him? Ma, I can't. it's  just come out here. Please, I 
No.
Do you want us to come in the kitchen?
No. It's a mess.
Look, Ma, come on out. Really. I need to talk to you.
Ma, do you know where Ray is? I've been calling him and I'm getting his machine and 
Eddie, how could you do it? Your brother's girlfriend.
Hey, he cheated on her.
He made a mistake.
I don't want to  do you know where he is?
No. Maybe he's watching. Tell him you're sorry. Tell him you'11 stay away from that girl.
No! And that girl has a name.
I know you. This Shari is a passing fancy.
No! I  All right, look, if you hear from Ray.... tell him to call me, okay?
How's Marcia? She all right?
I don't know. She's living with that "entertainer"...
Well, who knows? Maybe she finally picked a winner this time.
Mm.
You and Al lived together a few months before you got married  after Dad left.
Oh my God!
I mean, that worked out.
Oh my God!!
I can't believe you're taking his side.
I'm not! I'm just trying to get some facts.
I told you the facts! He abandoned us  those are the facts.
So everything he told me yesterday was a lie. Everything.
Yes.
Yes to me or yes to the coil?
Both.
Holy sh
He had girlfriends!
He says 
I don't care what he says. Look, I don't need to relive this. On television!
All right  do you want to know the truth? I took you and Marcia and Ray to my sister's on the train for the weekend and you all got chicken pox. So I took you home a day early and there was your father with a woman in our bed. Okay?
Chicken pox? I was six. He didn't leave 'til I was twelve.
He... apologized, he begged me. He can be very... charming when it suits his purpose.
But what was that whole story about him and a nurse?
She could've been a nurse.
Could've been a nurse?
She had white shoes.
So does Grandma. So does Shaquille O'Neal. You told me you had a hysterectomy and he ran off with your nurse.
What's the difference?
The difference is for twenty years I thought one thing and now it's another thing.
Oh my God. You and Al were  and that's why you threw him out.
He had a woman in my own bed! And how dare you call him "Dad" in front of Al. This is your father. This is who was there for you when you needed someone.
If I don't call you "Dad" it' just because... 1 was already a big boy when you came into our lives  or when I thought you came into our lives 
And what did he come back now for?
Who?
Hank! All of a sudden. Because now you're famous and he can get something from you. I don't wan you to become a victim like Marcia. Not that you're a victim, honey. You're not. Life's just been a little hard on you, sweetie.
What do you think. I mean about... him. Should I just... have nothing to do with him? I mean...
Eddie...
Mom?
I'm at the hospital.
What's the matter?!
He's dead! Eddie, he's dead! It was his heart.
Oh God. What hospital?
St. Joseph's.
I'm coming right over. I'll be right there.
What happened?
It was horrible. He called me up.
Who?
Hank! He said he wanted to talk to me to apologize for everything he begged  he cried. So I went to this horrible hotel he was staying in... I felt so sorry for him 
So you had sex with him?
What?
The doctor said you were having sex.
To you? In front of him? With the...
Yes. He assumed Hank was your husband. He didn't know.
Oh my god! On TV!
Why? How...
One thing led to another. He was my husband once.
But Al is your husband now!
Do you think it's been easy for me? It's been years. Al can't have sex.
Apparently, neither can Hank. What the hell did you do to him?
Don't tell Al. He doesn't know.
Well, he's the only one in America who doesn't!
Ed! How did you know I was here?
You're famous. Somebody called me. What are you doing in a place like this?
Why shouldn't I be in a place like this? I'm a whore!
Ma...
I'm a tramp Meet your new father. The whole nation is laughing at us!
And how is this helping? come on say, goodnight to all your new friends and let's go home.
I'm a whore! Your bathrooms are filthy!
What?
Look at this  people are getting married, they're getting married...
You said that.
We're falling behind.
You know who we are?
Tell me.
We're the guys who clean up after the parade.
I'm gonna stick this right in your eye.
I was at this comedy club last week and this comedian says "If you're over thirty and your job requires you to wear a name tag, you screwed up your life." And I'm laughing and then I realize I wear a nametag.
So do I. So what? I'm doing all right.
Your brother's here.
Oh, that thing. Yeah. Did you hear about this?
Yeah, what  they put some schmuck on TV all day long or something?
Hey, if it's free, it's me. You ready?
Yeah. You did good. What's wrong?
Aah, I wanted Shari to come.
Oh  so I'm just, what  a poor substitute?
Yeah. Honey, if you're watching this is for you.
No! Don't  Oh, wow.
What?
You know about that fireman who rescued that little girl?
When? Today?
No! Like, ten years ago. In Texas. Baby... Jessica!
Oh right, right! She fell down, like a...
Yeah, a thing. He became a big hero. He was on TV and there was a parade and a movie about him
Right, right...
And then, uh... you know it blew over and he went back to being a fireman again.
Right.
So he killed himself.
Oh.
Mr. Pekurny.
Yes?
I'm Dr. Geller. Your mother is just lying down for a few minutes. we gave her something to calm her down.
Thank you. Can I see her?
Just wait here. She's coming right back out.
Mm... Oh, man...
DR. GELLER +++$+++
What about him  did he suffer any or was it quick? I'd hate to think he...
Very quick. Between you and me, it's not a bad way to go. Making love to your wife... it's very sweet.
Really? They were..
According to your mother. When the paramedics got to the hotel, she told them that 
Hotel? What were they doing in a hotel?
I ... don't know. I ...
I thought  I thought he was dead.
Who?
Al!
No. The deceased is ... Henry Pekurny.
He's who we want to go with.
This guy.
I polled my staff. The men say they'd hang around with him and the women say he's fuckable. And one of the men said he's fuckable.
I'm not sure about the entire concept.
Take him off the air.
What are you talking about? He's fine. He's out of the hospital already. The ratings are higher than ever.
I'm telling you, it's peaked. Ed TV is an overinflated balloon. Get it off before it explodes all over us.
With all due respect, Cynthia you're nuts. I'm giving him another month!
Good luck.
Isn't this getting kind of pathetic. I mean we drank the juice, now we're just licking peel. Let it go!
Cynthia, I think you're laboring under a misconception. You seem to believe that because you happened to predict this, we should be impressed. We're not. Anybody in any business can predict failure. 1 need people who prevent failure. I want to see this thing turned back in the right direction. Remember this was your baby.
Where are you going?
I've got this great idea. We put together a video. "The Network Executives Goofiest Moments." And listen, i've really loved working here.
What did you study?
Oh, see, studying would've been a huge help. Where were you, then?
Ed, can I see you a second.
Excuse me.
Okay, so you understand? We're installing a permanent camera in your bedroom, one in the kitchen, one in the living room, plus, of course, there'll always be a couple of steadycams following you.
Cool.
I want you to take this.
That has my work number, my home number, my pager number. I sleep three hours a night. Call me whenever you want to talk. Off the air, on the air, whenever. Okay?
Um, yeah  thanks.
Now look. Don't freeze up on me. I picked you because you had kind of a relaxed, gowiththeflow quality. You're not going to lose that, are you?
No, uh...
I bet my career on you. You'd better be good.
Don't say that. That's like... telling a guy before you have sex you'd better be good. You don't do that.
I do.
Yes, Ed.
Could we just talk alone for a second? I 
Good idea. Could you all leave us alone for a few minutes?
How you doing, Ed?
I feel like when I was a kid and my mother sent me to school in orange corduroy pants.
Uhhuh?
And all the kids stared calling me "Pumpkin Ass." "Hey Pumpkin Ass,"  for like a year. So, now, I feel like everyone's watching me and, you know, I'm "Pumpkin Ass" again.
Yeah?
Can I give you one bit of advice? About Shari?
Sure.
A woman wants to be pursued.
They tore her dress! ...
We're going to get you a bodyguard, don't worry. Ed, I have some news for you. We're picking up Ed TV for another month!
Yeah?!
That means a balloon payment and a big raise for the second month.
Stand back  I'm about to do my Happy Dance.
Yeah.
You asked me if I had a dream. I said "Sure, I have a dream. I just don't know what it is yet."
Great line.
What if Shari's the dream?
Ed, do you want my advice?
Yeah, that's why I called. I mean, maybe FedEx would tell me where she moved 
Leave her be.
You said a woman likes to be pursued.
Pursued, not harassed. Give it some space. Can I tell you something  as a friend? My sister was going with a guy they hit a little rough spot they started seeing other people they got back together and last month they had their third child For what it's worth.
Ed, everything goes off. "Cheers" went off. "Mash" went off 
Yeah, but when they went off people weren't making fun of them. They weren't bozos! I'm Pumpkin Ass again!
Ed 
You know, everything you asked me to do I did. I call you for advice about Shari you say  "Leave her be, see other people for a while." You just wanted me to get involved with Jill because it made for a better show.
Ed 
No. You screwed up my life just so you could get higher ratings. You never gave a shit about me.
Yeah? Well I'm not starting now.
I don't think so.
Yeah. Because, you didn't talk me into anything. Everything you wanted me to do, I wanted to do.
Did you see that?
What?
Her. That look. She likes the Ed guy better than she likes the brother.
You're nuts.
Okay, I'm nuts.
I'11 tell you something else. The old guy in the wheelchair? The stepfather? They're gonna have him die.
What do you mean "they're gonna have him die?"
You know, for a tearjerker. The audience falls in love with this loveable old geezer in a wheelchair and then he dies, it's ... They know what they're doing.
This is real, Bananahead!
So?
So if it's a show and they have a guy die that's writing, but if it's real and they have a guy die that's murder.
You think she really likes him?
She doesn't give a shit about him.
You know what would be great?
What?
If Ray would steal this girl from Ed. That would be great.
Yeah only I wish they had the sister on more.
Ooh, the sister! She is hot.
You know it.
No. The bathroom is off limits and when I go to sleep they go to other programming. Unless I get up. Then they go back on the air. Unless I get up to go to the bathroom, I guess, then 
What ifyou're vomiting?
What if I'm vomiting?
Do they show it?
I guess  I don't  it's all in the contract. There's this millionpage contract 
I'11 have to pass, Al. And it's not an age thing 
No! Do they show you having sex?
No. Kissing and hugging, okay, but if it's actual sex they have to cut away.
At what point?
At the point  I don't  Look you'd be on TV maybe one or two times each. I'11 try to avoid I'11 go out of my way to avoid, getting together with you. Believe me.
Yeah. I brought you some movies.
Anything good?
No, I intentionally picked out a lot of crap 'cause I don't like you.
Is Mom here? I gotta talk to her.
She's in the kitchen. I'd yell for her, but I'd die. You had a busy night last night.
Yeah. Ma...
What do you love her or something?
Come on...
Look at your face. I had a car that color.
Whatever happened to Norman Rockwell?
Who?
Norman Rockwell. He painted magazine covers. Folksy. A mailman, a boy scout, a kid visiting a doctor...
Yeah, so... ?
They celebrated the common person.
Well, I don't think you can get more common than me, Al.
No. Only celebrities now. Now, if you put a mailman on the cover of a magazine he'd better have killed someone or no one will buy it. This one to Dr. Rumpley.
Jeanette, you're hurting me.
I'm not  I didn't  Al, you know how I feel about you...
Have I ever said a bad word to you about your father?
No.
Well, now I will. He was a crazy mean, sonofabitch.
How's your mother?
Al!
Our neighbors gave me a ride.
Al!!
Where is she? Is she all right?
You thought it was me?
Yes!
It's your father. Hank. Your mother went to see him and he had a heart attack.
Went 
Are things gonna be okay with you and Mom? Is there anything I can 
I'm moving out.
What?!
I'm going to be living with my brother. He's not in such good shape as I am, but... I'm looking forward to the pillow fights.
Oh, Al ... This is just...
Hank was always good with the ladies. Always goodlooking. Hell, he's been dead for two days, he still looks better than me.
Vampira! Hi, this is Ed Wood.
Who?
Ed Wood! You came to my party. I directed "Bride Of The Atom"!
Oh. Yeah. You.
Well, I was wondering if maybe sometime you'd like to go out, and maybe grab some dinner.
You mean like a date? I thought you were a fag.
ME?! No, uh, I'm just a transvestite.
Isn't that the same thing?
No, no! I like girls. So how 'bout Friday?
Look, you seem like a nice guy, Ed, but you're just not my type. But keep in touch. Let me know when your movie opens.
Why... yes.
Don't you think angora has a tactile sensuality lacking in all other clothing?
I suppose. It's very expensive.
It's made from speciallybred rabbits that live in the Himalayas.
What are you, an angora wholesaler?
No, I work in pictures. I'm a directoractorwriterproducer.
Ah, c'mon! Nobody does all that.
Two people do. Orson Welles and me.
Wow.
You know, you're a very attractive girl.
My goodness, you're embarrassing me.
You shouldn't be embarrassed by the truth. Mind if I order some hotcakes...?
Eddie, I'm just a smalltown girl. I've never done this before.
Don't worry, I'll teach you.
What the heck is THIS?!!
Honey, I have a little secret to share with you.
Please, be compassionate. I'm your husband!
No you're not! This marriage was never consummated. I'm getting an annulment!
...Do you accept the Lord Jesus Christ as your savior?
I do.
What are you talking about?! It's the premise of the movie. It's even the title, for Christ's sake!
Mr. Wood!
Isn't it wonderful? Bela lives!
Doesn't this strike you as a bit morbid?
No, he would've loved it! Bela's returned from the grave  like Dracula. CUE VAMPIRA!
This is our choir director. He's gonna play the young hero.
Are you IN5ANE? <u>I'm</u> the director! <u>I</u> make the casting decisions around here!
I thought this was a group effort.
NOOOOO!!!
Mr. Wood? <u>What do you think you're</u> <u>doing</u>?!
I'm directing.
Bbut it's our money 
And you're gonna make a bundle. This movie's gonna be famous! But only if you SHUT UP, and let me do it my way!
Hell, I've seen a lot worse reviews. I've seen ones where they didn't even like the costumes! Like, that last "Francis the Mule" picture  it got <u>terrible</u> notices. But it was a huge hit.
Lines around the block.
So don't take it too seriously. We're all doin' great work.
The set doesn't look right! It looks too... empty. Clutter it up. Put a skeleton in the corner. And what's that thing over there?
I don't know.
Well it looks good. Let's use it!
Just like I always promised. Now you're among the immortals. You're movie stars.
Here's to Ed. For making us into something.
Uh, yoohoo. Excuse me! Sorry to interrupt, but I got some big news.
Yeah...?
Well my cousin Fred met this dame from back East. She's from "old money," and he thinks she's loaded. And here's the kicker: She's <u>very</u> <u>interested</u> in the picture business!
Wow, this lab looks great. Except why is there a stove and refrigerator?
We couldn't afford any more props. If it seems weird, maybe you can add a scene where they eat dinner.
Nah, it'll work. Where's Bela?
Ed, you said you were getting permission.
Uh, I couldn't reach the guy... he was in meetings all day. But this'll be great, I promise!
You're sure this is gonna work?
Yes!
You're <u>sure</u>???
YES! JUST DO IT!
Hey. This is looking good! Paul, where's the octopus motor?
What octopus motor?
You know, to make the legs move 
Hey, don't blame me! You didn't say anything about no motor when I was up on that ceiling!
Norma, this is Bela  Bela, this is Norma. Norma, this is Tor  Tor, this is Norma. Norma, this is Paul Paul, this is Norma.
So how long have you known Eddie?
Ed, I got the Lugosi lookalikes outside.
Great! Bring 'em in! Bunny, I gotta run.
Too tall... too short... And this guy doesn't work at all.
Well I was thinkin' like, when Bela played "Fu Manchu."
That was Karloff. Paul, you gotta try harder. I don't want this film to be haifassed. This time, we go for the quality.
Excuse me, Miss Vampira?
Yes?
You don't know me, but my name is Ed Wood. I'm a film producer. I'm currently in production on a sciencefiction piece, with Bela Lugosi and Swedish wrestler Tor Johnson. And I saw you here, and I thought: Kismet!
I don't understand. Do you want my autograph?
No. I think my film is perfect for you.
You want me to show it on my TV program? Well I got nothing to do with that. You should call up the station manager at Channel Seven 
No! I don't want you to show the movie, I want you to be <u>in it</u>! See, maybe I should explain: We started shooting, but then after three days we got shut down. So we're having a backers party, to raise some more money. Perhaps you'd like to come next door and meet some of the backers...?
Uh, look, I'm with some friends, and we're about to eat 
Please! It'll only take a minute. You can have some hors d'oeuvres, and meet my backers! There's a really nice dentist from Oxnard...
Look buddy, I'm a big star. I've got real offers from real studios. I don't need to blow some dentist for a part. So forget it!
No, don't worry, I moved on. I was just calling to see if you want to attend the world premiere of my new film, "Bride Of The Monster."
Didn't you just make one called "Bride Of The Atom"?
It's the same film. But the distributor wanted a punchier title. C'mon! It's gonna be a big event  we're going all out! Bela, Tor, and Cris are coming. You'll have fun!
I'm really sorry...
It's terrible. People won't even return my calls. It's like I don't exist.
I know what <u>that's</u> like. Anyway, I brought a copy of the script. You would play the "Ghoul's Wife."
The <u>Ghoul's Wife</u>?! God, I can't believe I'm doing this...
Look... would it be possible to make the "Ghoul's Wife" a little less prominent, so people won't really notice me in the movie?
You don't wanna be noticed?
Exactly. Hey, how 'bout this  what if I don't have any lines? I'll do the part mute!
<u>It's uncanny</u>.
What's uncanny?
LOOK AT HIS SKULL!
Hello.
Hello. You're sleeping in a tuxedo.
I got married last night.
Oh. Congratulations.
The marriage already ended.
Oh. My condolences.
What are you making?
Booties for my father. He gets cold in this hospital.
How long's he been here?
This is my thirteenth pair.
Oh, it's you again.
Oh, hi.
You look beat.
I am. How's your father?
He's better. Thank you for asking. How's your friend?
Not good...
Oh, flowers! I didn't know you were so traditional.
I just picked them up on the way over...
They're very nice. Let me get my coat.
So have you always lived in L.A.?
No. I'm from back east. You know, AllAmerican small town... everybody knew everybody, I was a Boy Scout, my dad worked for the post office...
Sounds like you lived in Grovers Corners.
Did you find it boring?
Nah, 'cause I had my comic books. And I read pulp magazines. And I listened to the radio dramas...
Oh. I loved those shows! "Inner Sanctum"... "The Shadow" 
Yeah! Don't forget "Mercury Theatre"... And then every Saturday, I'd go to the little movie theater down the street. I even started ushering there.
You're not gonna believe the first picture I ever saw. Your friend's.
What do you mean?
"Dracula."
That <u>is</u> incredible! You know, I had to sleep with the lights on for a week after seeing that movie.
I had to sleep with the lights on for a month. But I never missed a Lugosi picture after that.
A few years ago, I actually saw him do "Dracula" live. I thought he was much scarier in person.
Kathy, I'm about to tell you something I've never told any girl on a first date. But I think it's important that you know. I like to wear women's clothes.
Huh?
I like to wear women's clothes: Panties, brassieres, sweaters, pumps... it's just something I do. And I can't believe I'm telling you, but I really like you, and I don't want it getting in the way down the road.
Does this mean you don't like sex with girls?
No! I love sex with girls.
Oh. Okay.
Okay?
Stop!
STOP!
Ed, this spaghetti sauce is delicious.
Thanks. It's actually the only thing I know how to make. Hey, can you grab that strainer?
What was that?
Bela died.
I'd seen him in a coffin so many times, I expected him to jump out...
Ed, you've got to snap out of this. Bela's dead  <u>you're not</u>!
I might as well be. I made shitty movies that nobody wanted to see. I blew it. All he wanted was a comeback... that last glory...
Well you tried 
I was a fuckin' HACK! I let people recut the movies, cast their relatives... I let Bela down...
You know, when you rewrite a script, it just gets better and better!
Do you want your buttons on the left or the right?
The left. It's more natural. Hey, I've got a scene where the aliens have the ultimate bomb. What would that be made of?
Uh, atomic energy?
No. They're beyond that! They're smarter than the humans. What's <u>more</u> advanced?
Dynamite 
No, BIGGER! What's the biggest energy??
The sun.
Yes! BINGO! Solar energy! Oh that's gonna seem so scientific. This movie's gonna be the ultimate Ed Wood film. <u>No compromises</u>.
Those assholes.
The poor girl's out of a job.
Yeah... I should give her a call.
You should feel lucky. Ed's the only guy in town who doesn't pass judgment on people.
Hell, if I did, I wouldn't have any friends.
Look, it's Dr. Tom. Hey, Dr. Tom!
Who's Dr. Tom?
My chiropractor!
I can't get it to go up.
Ed, you're gonna miss your own premiere.
C'mon! Let's just go.
Ed, I'm so happy for you.
Let's get married.
Huh?!
<u>Right now</u>. Let's drive to Vegas!
But it's pouring. And the car top is stuck!
So? It's only a fivehour drive. And it'll probably clear up, once we hit the desert. Heck, it'll probably clear up once we drive around the corner. I promise.
Can I help you?
Yes, I'm Ed Wood. I'm here about directing the Christine Jorgensen picture.
Yeah, well a couple of things have changed. It ain't gonna be the Christine Jorgensen story no more. Goddamn "Variety" printed the story before I had the rights, and now that bitch is asking for the sky.
So you're not gonna make the movie?
No, of COURSE I'm gonna make the movie! I've already presold Alabama and Oklahoma. Those repressed Okies really go for that twisted pervert stuff. So we'll just make it without that shemale. We'll fictitionalize it.
Is there a script?
Fuck no! But there's a poster.
It opens in nine weeks in Tulsa.
Well, Mr. Weiss, I'm your guy. I work fast, and I'm a deal: I write AND direct. And I'm good. I just did a play in Hollywood, and Victor Crowley praised its realism.
Hmm. There's fivehundred guys in town who can tell me the same thing. You said on the phone you had some kind of "special qualifications."
Well, Mr. Weiss, I've never told anyone what I'm about to tell you... but I really want this job. I like to dress in women's clothing.
Are you a fruit?
No, no, not at all! I <u>love</u> women. Wearing their clothes makes me feel closer to them.
So you're not a fruit?
Nah, I'm all man. I even fought in WW2. 'Course, I <u>was</u> wearing ladies' undergarments under my uniform.
You gotta be kiddin' me.
Confidentially, I even paratrooped wearing a brassiere and panties. I'll tell ya, I wasn't scared of being killed, but I was <u>terrified</u> of getting wounded, and having the medics discover my secret.
And this is why you think you're the most qualified to make my movie?
Yeah. I know what it's like to live with a secret, and worry about what people are gonna think of you... My girlfriend still doesn't know why her sweaters are always stretched out.
Mr. Weiss, I was thinkin' about what you said, about how all your movies have to make a profit. And I realized, what's the one thing, that if you put in a movie, it'll be successful??
Tits.
No. Better than tits  a <u>star</u>!
Eddie, you must have me confused with David Selznick. I don't make major motion pictures. I make crap.
Yeah, but if you took that crap and put a star in it, you'd have something!
Yeah. Crap with a star.
No! It would be something better! Something <u>impressive</u>. The biggest moneymaker you've ever had!
Fine, maybe you're right. But it doesn't friggin' matter. I can't afford a star, so I don't even know what we're talking about.
What if I told you you could have a star for $1000??
Who?
Lugosi?
Yeah! <u>Lugosi</u>!
Isn't he dead?
No, he's not dead! He lives in Baldwin Hills. I met him recently, and he wants to be in our picture.
OUR picture?
Uh, yeah. Our picture.
Why would Lugosi want to be in a sexchange flick?
Because he's <u>my friend</u>.
I thought this was gonna be a sex change film!
There's still a sexchange 
Yeah! Five pages right before it ends! The rest of the show is about some schmuck who likes angora sweaters.
I don't think he's a schmuck.
And what's with this new title?! My poster says "I CHANGED MY SEX"!
So change the poster. Trust me, you'll be better off. This is a story that's gonna <u>grab</u> people. It's about this guy. He's crazy about this girl but he likes to wear dresses. Should he tell her? Should he not tell her? He's torn. George, this is DRAMA.
Ed! What's with these revised pages?! A scene in a smelting factory? A buffalo stampede?? <u>Threehundred soldiers storming Anzio</u> <u>Beach</u>??! What's going on here? I can't afford to film this nonsense!
Don't worry. We're not gonna film any of it.
<u>Then how's it gonna get in the</u> <u>picture</u>?!
I know a guy in Universal's stock house  he's giving me the footage for free. This movie's gonna look like a million bucks.
I think it's fiftyseven minutes long.
Yeah? Whatever. So did you like it?
Ed, what was the one thing I asked you to do? Make it <u>seven reels long</u>. I've got contracts with my exhibitors. If it ain't over an hour, they won't play it.
Gee, I used every frame of film we shot. Maybe they won't notice.
They'll notice. Look, why don't you let me take over from here? I can do a few tricks: Pad it out with more stock footage, add establishing shots...
Um, I guess 
Good. And one more thing. I think your "Written, Directed, and Starring Ed Wood" credit is a bad idea.
Why?! I did all those things! Hell, I even built the props.
And you did a bangup job, too. But you don't want other producers to know that's you in drag. Trust me. It's a career killer.
But I'm proud. I wrote, directed, and starred in it just like Orson Welles in "Citizen Kane"!
Yeah?? Well Orson Welles didn't wear angora sweaters, did he??!
Georgie, what's with the stag footage?? You said you were cutting in <u>establishing shots</u>!
I did. I established some tits and ass.
"Where's the ads"?! The ads are in Alabama, Indiana, and Missouri! You schmuck, it ain't gonna play L.A.!
Why not??
Because I can't sell it to save my life! You made a goddamn feathered fish. Is it an art film, a horror show, a hygiene flick? Nobody knows! I'm beggin' people to book it.
Maybe it needs special handling.
Screw you, Wood! I even sunk more money into different titles: "Transvestite" "He Or She?" "I Led Two Lives"... It DOESN'T MATTER! Nobody wants to see the piece of shit.
You can't talk that way about my movie.
"Your movie"?! I wish it was your movie! I wish I hadn't blown every dime I ever made into this stinkbomb. If I ever see you again, I'll kill you!!!
Excuse me, Sir...?
Yes?
Uh, uh, I'm a young filmmaker, and a really big fan... and I just wanted to meet you.
My pleasure. I'm Orson Welles.
Oh. Um, I'm Ed Wood! So, what are you working on now?
Eh, the financing just fell through for the third time on "Don Quixote." So I'm trying to finish a promo for something else. But I can't find the soundtrack  I think I left it in Malta.
I can't believe it. These sound like <u>my</u> problems!
It's the damn money men. You never know who's a windbag, and who's got the goods. And then they all think <u>they're</u> a director...
Ain't that the truth! I've even bad producers recut my movies 
Ugh, I hate when that happens.
And they always want to cast their buddies  it doesn't even <u>matter</u> if they're right for the part!
Tell me about it. I'm supposed to do a thriller at Universal, and they want Charlton Heston to play a <u>Mexican</u>!
Mr. Welles, is it all worth it?
It is when it works. You know the one film of mine I can stand to watch? "Kane." The studio hated it... but they didn't get to touch a frame. Ed, visions are worth fighting for. Why spend your life making someone else's dreams?
Glad you could fit me in your schedule.
Da pleasure be mine.
Could we moovf to table?
Oh, of course!
So, Mr. Johnson 
Tor!
Tor. Have you ever thought about becoming an actor?
Mm, not goodlookink enough.
I think you're quite handsome.
No. With hair, yah. But I must shave head for wrestlink. It scare da crowds. Dey like that.
Well, I think you'd be a sensation in pictures.
But what bout accent? Some people tink I haf too much accent.
Nah, that doesn't matter! It's a visual medium.
So anyway, I've got this new script, "Bride Of The Atom," and there's a part you're ideal for: "Lobo." He's tough. A brute. But he has a heart  and at the end he saves the girl.
I like. When do movie shoot?
Hopefully, very soon. I'm just awaiting the final okay from Mr. Feldman at MGM.
Edvard! I haf question 'bout script. My vife Greta, she read. And she no like.
Really? Was the third act too intense?
No. She tink Lobo is waste of my time. Lobo don't talk.
But Tor, it's a starring part! You're second billed.
Bela, he talk. Loretta, she talk. But Tor, he no talk.
Tor, dialogue is overrated. You look at the classic film actors, who are they? Fairbanks. Chaplin. They didn't talk! They did it all with their face.
But Greta say 
Here's the scene. Loretta, you're in a trance. You glide in and get on the operating table. Now Tor, you're supposed to tie her down. But you have an angora fetish... and when you rub that swatch of angora, it makes you refuse so Bela has to discipline you.
Okeydokey.
Hey! You're not eatink.
Uh, I don't have much of an appetite lately.
The food will make you feel bedder. Look at me  I'm da happiest guy I know!
I'd be happy too, if I had such a great family.
Don't worry. You just haven't met right woman yet. Oopsy. That cabbage goes right through me.
Tor, I should be getting home.
Nonsense! You must try our hot glug.
My friend, you tink Greta is first woman I ever see? No! Many duds, before I find her.
But I thought me and Dolores had something.
Forget her! Move on. A good lookink boy like you as you can have any girl you wish.
My eyes are killink me.
Don't worry. We're almost there.
What is happening?
We're escaping!
Mr. Wood?!
Hruphh...?
Mr. Wood, this is Mr. Reynolds, your landlord. Could you please open up?
Yeah...?
Mr. Wood, you have bounced your third and final rent check.
I'm real sorry. My stockbroker must have transferred the wrong account... C'mon in, I'll write you another one.
Hmm, so you're in the picture business?
You could say that 
<u>I'm</u> interested in the picture business. My associates and I wish to produce a series of uplifting religious films, on the Apostles. But unfortunately, we don't have enough money.
Raising money is tough.
Oh! Our church has the money for one film. We just don't have it for all twelve...
Okay  you know what you do? You produce a film in a commercially proven genre. And after it's a hit, you take the profits from <u>that</u>, and make the twelve Apostles' movies.
Would that work?
Absolutely! You see this script..?
"Graverobbers From Outer Space"! It's <u>money in the bank</u>.
Graverobbers from <u>what</u>??
From outer space! It's science fiction. <u>Very</u> big with the kids! If you make this picture, you'll have enough money to finance a HUNDRED religious films! <u>And</u> pay my back rent from the profits.
I don't know... this is all a lot to absorb.
It's a guaranteed blockbuster!
Um, I understand that this science friction is popular  but don't the big hits always have big stars?
Yeah, well we've GOT a big star! Bela Lugosi!!
<u>Lugosi</u>??! Didn't be pass on?
Yes, but I've got the last footage he ever shot!
Just, it doesn't look like very much.
It's plenty! It's the acorn that will grow a great oak. I'll just find a double to finish his scenes, and we'll release it as "Bela Lugosi's Final Film"
What'd you give him all the lines for?? He's unintelligible!
Look, Lugosi is dead and Vampira won't talk. Ihad to give <u>somebody</u> the dialogue.
And PERFECT. CUT!
"Perfect"? Mr. Wood, do you know <u>anything</u> about the art of film production?!
I like to think so.
That cardboard headstone tipped over. This graveyard is obviously phony!
People won't notice. Filmmaking isn't about picky details  it's about the big picture.
Oh, you wanna talk about the "big picture"?! How 'bout that the policemen arrive in the daylight, but now it's suddenly night???
Mr. Reynolds!
Yes?
We are gonna finish this film <u>just</u> <u>the way I want it</u>! Because you can't compromise an artist's vision!
Mr. Ward, it's a delight to meet you.
It's Wood. Ed Wood.
Wood? Ward? Wood. Hey, what do you know. It <u>is</u> Wood. Dang secretaries, you can never get a good one. Right?
So what are you bringing me? Looks like you got some film cans.
Well, Mr. Feldman, some people have resumes to show. I've got my own movie.
Really?! Well good for you.
I just made this picture, over at Screen Classics. It opens next week.
Screen Classics? Hmm, don't know them.
Nobody in town has seen it, so I'm givin' you first crack at my talents.
I can't wait to take a look. So what's up next?
Well, Mr. Feldman, I don't believe in thinking small. So I've got a whole slate of pictures for you: "The Vampire's Tomb," "The Ghoul Goes West"... and "Doctor Acula"!
Doctor Acula? I don't get it.
<u>Dr. Acula</u>!
Oh, "Dr. Acula." I get it. I don't like it.
But Bela Lugosi's in it!
Lugosi's washedup. What else you got?
Well... I've got another project I wasn't gonna tell you about. Lugosi's in it, but he's got a smaller part. The lead is an ingenue, a sterling young actress named Dolores Fuller. The title is "Bride Of The Atom."
Ah! Atomic Age stuff, huh? I like it. I'll tell you what, Mr. Ward. Why don't you leave those film cans, and my associates and I will take a look at your little opus. Maybe we can do business together.
Hey big shot, get off your ass. They need a potted palm over in the Carl Laemmle Building.
Sure thing, Mr. Kravitz.
He's a <u>bum</u>.
No he's not! Do you realize how much money he made for this studio over the years? "Dracula"! "The Raven"! "The Black Cat"!
Yeah? Well now he's a junkie. He don't deserve to work.
That's not true 
He's so great, <u>you</u> hire him.
Well, uh, if I could I would...
Pleased to meet you. I'm Loretta King.
I understand you just moved here?
Yes. Hollywood is oh so exciting.
So my associate Mr. Marco tells me you may be interested in investing in a motion picture.
Perhaps a small amount of money. How much do one of your motion pictures cost?
For this one, we need $60,000.
That's all?? That seems very reasonable for an entire picture.
Perhaps you'd like to look at the photoplay.
Oh my, this is very interesting. Say... do you think it would be possible for me to maybe play one of these parts?
Oh, of course!! There's a couple characters you'd be perfect for: The secretary at the newspaper office, or the file clerk!
Hmm. Those sound kind of small. Oh, here's one that looks good: Janet Lawton. I'd sure like to play her.
Eddie, which dress do you like better?
I don't know. Hey Bill, which dress is better for you, the green or the red one?
Sorry to bother you while we're shooting, but the guy who owns the stage needs his money.
Well then you should pay him, shouldn't you?
Yeah. Exactly!
I kinda need it now.
What are you looking at me like that for? I already gave you my three hundred.
Yeah. Well I need the other sixtythousand.
What other sixtythousand?
The other sixtythousand you said you'd give me.
You misunderstood. I gave you everything I have in the world: Threehundred dollars.
Dolores, give me your shoes.
What?
The ghost can be barefoot. <u>Give</u> <u>me your shoes</u>!
Honey, what if I'm wrong? What if I just don't have it?
Ed, it was only one review.
Orson Welles was 26 when he made "Citizen Kane." I'm already 30!
Ed, you're still young. This is the part of your life when you're <u>supposed</u> to be struggling.
I know... But sometimes I get scared this is as good as it's gonna get...
Eddie, I don't understand. Why are <u>you</u> the most qualified director for the Christine Jorgensen Story?
Aw, er, it's just a bunch of hot air. I had to say something to get in the door.
Sweetie, you won't believe it! I've got the most incredible news!
You got the job?!!
Huh?! Oh, uh, no, I didn't get the job. But something <u>better</u> happened!
Better than not getting a job?
Yeah! I met a movie star! Somebody <u>really big</u>!
Who? Robert Taylor?!
No! A horror movie star!
Boris Karloff!?
Close! The <u>other</u> one!
You met Basil Rathbone!
Oh, the hell with you. I met BELA LUGOSI!
I thought he was dead.
No! He's very alive. Well... sort of. He's old, and frail  but he's still Bela Lugosi! And he's really nice.
Boy, I can't even remember the last time he was in a picture.
It's a shame. He's such a rest actor, and nobody uses him anymore.
So did you get his autograph?
Ed, I'm so proud! I'll read it as soon as I get home.
Well, I'd really like to know what you think. Why don't you go in the bedroom and take a look at it? I'll Wait...
How long have you been doing this?
Since I was a kid. My mom wanted a girl, so she used to dress me in girlie clothing. It just kinda became a habit.
Jesus Christ! And you never told me?
This is my way of telling you 
What, by putting it in a fuckin' script, for everyone to see?! What kind of sick mind would operate like that?
And what about this socalled "Barbara" character? It's obviously ME! I'm so embarrassed! This is <u>our</u> <u>life</u>!
Of course it is. And that's why you should play the part.
Oh! You got nerve, buddy.
It's a damn good role.
<u>That's not the issue</u>!! Ugh! How can you act so casual, when you're dressed like that?!
It takes me comfortable.
Oh, just like in the script!
How can you just walk around like that, in front of all these people?
Hon', nobody's bothered but you. Look around  they couldn't care less.
Ed, this isn't the real world! You've surrounded yourself with WEIRDOS!
Say it a little louder. I don't think Bela heard you in his trailer.
Ed, who is Daniel Davis?
Some weirdo who likes to wear dresses.
From today on, our lives are different! We'll be swimming laps in the same pool Jean Harlow did.
I don't know. It's so much money...
Who cares?! We're on a ROLL! These are the moments in life you're supposed to grab.
But Ed, we're not even married. And you don't have a job.
But <u>you</u> do! And anyway, I've got tons of new scripts. And now that I have a track record, studios are bound to hire me!
Look on the bright side. If we miss the rent, what's the worst they can do?
Toss us out on our ass.
Exactly.
I'm no good.
Ed, it's just one man's opinion!
Bela needs a job... I can't even get a film going... But <u>of course</u> I can't  I made the worst movie of all time.
That's ridiculous.
All I wanna do is tell stories. The things I find interesting...
Well maybe you're not studio kind of material. Maybe you just need to raise the money yourself.
Ed, the landlord called again. He wants his money.
Tell him "Bride" is in pre production.
Ed, the landlord doesn't care.
That's the problem! <u>Nobody</u> cares about my movie! I'm tryin' so hard, I don't know what else to do!
Don't get angry at me. Maybe you just need a day job.
Dolores, don't you understand? I'm a director now! I made "Glen Or Glenda." Directing <u>is</u> my day job.
All I know is, ever since "Glen Or Glenda," all you do is booze it up and wear my clothes!
It was the only way I could get the movie made!
Who do you think's been paying the rent?! Who helped type your script, and did all your grunt work?!
I'm sorry! What did you want me to say?
I wanted you to say, "No! I wrote the part for my girlfriend Dolores."
But there's plenty of other parts.
Like <u>what</u>?!
The secretary. Or the file clerk.
Goddamn landlord.
I told you this was gonna happen.
Maybe if you'd come to the backers party, I would've gotten the money.
That's moronic. Why would a bit player impress a backer?
Look, how many times can I say I'm sorry? I blew it! I thought she was rich.
That's a good reason to dump your girlfriend.
<u>I didn't dump you</u>! Get it through your skull  I just recast the part!
You're a fuckin' mess.
So WHAT?? Look, we gotta figure out where we're gonna stay.
I'm going to my mother's.
Does she have room for me?
Honey, you made it! I wasn't sure you got my message.
Of course I'm here. Today is the file clerk's big scene.
That's right...
I see the usual gang of misfits and dope addicts are here. Say, who's the lug?
That's Tony McCoy. He's playing Lieutenant Dick Craig.
Oh really? How much money did he put up?
None. But his dad gave me fifty grand.
Wood Productions. The mark of quality.
Hey, <u>the movie's getting made</u>. That's the main thing.
Eddie, what's <u>my</u> motivation?
Oh. Er... well you're the file clerk. You're hurrying into the next room, when you bump into Janet.
But what's our relationship? Are we good friends, or is she just a casual acquaintance?
Dolores, I got five days to shoot this movie. Quit kidding around.
Dolores, wait!
Ed, it's over. I need a normal life.
Did you really mean those things you said..?
I'm tired of living on the fringe.
But you used to say 
Ed... I just stuck it out so you could finish your movie. Now that it's done, so am I.
Excuse me. Doctor? I'm with Mr. Lugosi. How is he?
Well... there's a lot of junk in his system for such an old man. Apparently, he was addicted to morphine, tried to kick it, and got readdicted to methadone.
Will he be okay?
We'll do our best.
We thought Mr. Lugosi was insured though the Screen Actors Guild.
Isn't he?
No. They say his eligibility ran out years ago.
Look, he doesn't have any money... but I'll give you everything I've got. I have a few hundred dollars.
Wow.
And who may you be?
Edward Wood, Sir.
Ah. The director of "Glen Or Glenda."
Hhow'd you know?!
I'm Criswell. I know all.
Hey Cris, how'd you know we'd be living on Mars by 1970? How'd you know it wouldn't be 1975, or even 1980?
I guessed.
I don't understand.
I made it up. It's horseshit!
There's no such thing as a psychic. People believe my folderol because I wear a turban and a black tuxedo.
It's that easy?
Eddie, we're in show biz! It's all about razzledazzle. Appearances. If you dress nice and talk well, people will swallow anything.
Bravo! Bravo! Magnifico!
Cris, you made it. Thanks a lot.
My pleasure. I'm always happy to assist in a little larceny.
Incidentally, you <u>promise</u> you're not going to scratch my car...?
I told you, the octopus is made of rubber. This is a piece o' cake.
Edward, are you sure you know what you're doing?
Yeah. It seems a little crazy, but sometimes <u>you just know</u>. She's perfect for me.
I got the early edition! It was just dropped off at the newsstand.
This is the big moment...!
You really think so?
Absolutely! It's just the beginning. I promise this: If we stick together, one day I'll make every single one of you famous.
What happened?! Jesus, Connie, what did you do?
Nothin'! I told him he was great.
What do you think you're doin'?!
These shoes are itchy.
You <u>can't sit</u>! You gotta walk around, with good posture. You want these people to think we have class. Otherwise they'll <u>never</u> invest in our movie.
You don't understand! The octopus is supposed to live in a <u>lake</u>!
This is kind of a stream
NO! It has to be UNDERWATER!
PLACES, EVERYONE! ROLL CAMERA!
Rolling.
And, CUT! PRINT IT! LET'S MOVE ON!
Don't you want a second take, for protection?
What's to protect? It was perfect!
Um, okay... roll camera
Rolling.
Sound!
Which one <u>is</u> the red one?
What do you mean?
I mean I can't see the difference. I'm colorblind. But I like the dark gray one.
Hey Ed, shouldn't we do another take? Big Baldy kinda got stuck in the doorway.
No, it's fine. It's real! In actuality, Lobo would struggle with that problem every day.
So guess where I'm going next weekend?
I don't know. Where?
Mexico! And guess what I'm going to do there?!
I dunno. Lie on the beach?
WRONG! I'm getting my first series of hormone shots! And once those babies kick in, they're gonna remove my organs, and MAKE ME A WOMAN!
Jesus! Are you serious?
Yes! I've dreamed of it for years, but your movie made me realize I've got to take action. GOODBYE, PENIS!
I've never seen anything like him!
And once I'm a woman, JeanClaude and I are getting married 
Ssh! He's so big! He's a <u>monster</u>! Can you imagine what that guy would be like in a movie?
This is gonna be Bela's laboratory, so it should be real impressive! Like one of those mad scientist movies. I want beakers, and test tubes, and one of those electrical things that buzzes!
You mean a Tesla coil?
If you say so.
Excuse me, Mr. Lugosi??
I told you, I don't want any of your goddamn coffins.
No. I don't work here.
Huh?
Who are you? What do you want?
I don't want anything. I'm just a really big, big fan. I've seen all your movies.
Ha!
Why were you buying a coffin?
Because I'm planning on dying soon.
Really?
Yes. I'm embarking on another bus andtruck tour of "Dracula." Twelve cities in ten days, if that's conceivable.
You know, I saw you perform "Dracula." In Poughkeepsie, in 1938.
Eh, that was a terrible production. Renfield was a drunk!
I thought it was great. You were much scarier in real life than you were in the movie.
Thank you.
I waited to get your autograph, but you never came outside.
I apologize. When I play Dracula, I put myself into a trance. It takes me much time to reemerge.
Oh, there's my bus. Shit, where's my transfer?!
Don't you bave a car?
I refuse to drive in this country. Too many madmen.
Boy, Mr. Lugosi, you must lead such an exciting life. When is your next picture coming out?
I have no next picture.
Ah, you gotta be jokin'! A great man like you... I'll bet you have dozens of 'em lined up.
Back in the old days, yes. But now  no one give two fucks for Bela.
But you're a big star!
No more. I haven't worked in four years. This town, it chews you up, then spits you out. I'm just an exbogeyman. Make a right.
They don't want the classic horror films anymore. Today, it's all giant bugs, giant spiders, giant grasshoppers  who would believe such nonsense!
The old ones were much spookier. They had castles, full moons...
They were <u>mythic</u>. They had a poetry to them. And you know what else? The women prefer the traditional monsters.
The <u>women</u>?
The pure horror, it both repels and attracts them. Because in their collective unconsciousness, they have the agony of childbirth. The blood. The blood is horror.
I never thought of that.
Take my word for it. You want to "score" with a young lady, you take her to see "Dracula."
Shh! I'm coming! I will feed you!
Well... I guess I should go. Perhaps we could get together again?
Certainly. But now the children of the night are calling me.
Ugh! I hate the way she interrupts the pictures. She doesn't show 'em the proper respect.
I think she's a honey. Look at those jugs.
Vampira! You will come under my spell! You will be my slave of love.
Hey Bela, how do you do that?
You must be doublejointed, and you must be Hungarian. Vampira, look at me! Stare into my eyes.
I am getting tired. I need to take my medicine.
Do you want me to get it for you?
No thank you, Eddie. I'll be alright.
Are you sure this is okay?
Don't worry. I do it every Halloween.
Eddie, you got a new movie for me?!
Yeah, it's gonna be a great picture! You'll love your character! Bunny, Bela's here. Look, hit the bars, work some parties, and get me transvestites! <u>I need transvestites</u>!
Eddie, what kind of movie is this?
Well, It's about how people have two personalities. The side they show to the world, and then the secret person they hide inside.
Oh, like Jekyll and Hyde! Ah, I've always wanted to play Jekyll and Hyde! I'm looking forward to this production.
Ehh, your part's a little different. You're like the God that looks down on all the characters, and oversees everything.
I don't understand.
Well... you control everyone's fate. You're like the puppetmaster.
Ah, so I pull the strings!
Yeah. You pull the strings  "Pull the strings"... hey, that's pretty good!
Bela! It's so great to see you! And eight o'clock on the dot. Right on time!
I am always on time.
Of course! Well, we got a big day planned for you... First, we're gonna start off a little easy, with you in that armchair over there. Then, once you're up to speed and cooking, we'll reset and bring out the laboratory equipment 
Uh, Eddie, do you have my money?
Huh?! Oh yeah, of course.
You're right, Bela. Now Dracula, <u>that's</u> a part that takes acting.
Of course! Dracula requires <u>presence</u>. It's all in the voice, and the eyes, and the hand 
Look, you seem a little agitated. Do you maybe wanna take a little break, go for a nice walk... and then we'll come back and shoot the scene?
BULLSHIT! I am ready now! Roll the camera!!
How 'bout a western? People love westerns.
But, I don't like horses. Do I have to get on one?
Eh, forget it. What else is big? Teenagers! Jailbait pics! Yeah... You got the juvenile delinquent, his girlfriend from the wrong side of the tracks 
Who do I play?
Uh, a cop. NO! You play the father. He's <u>angry</u>! He doesn't like seeing his son  no  he doesn't like seeing his <u>daughter</u> behave this way!
Well... can't I play the romantic part? I'm tired of always being the bad guy. You know, back in Hungary, I played Romeo! I would like to be the lover again  me, in a boat, with the girl...
Sure. Romance, that's great! To engineer your comeback, we're gonna need a whole slate of pictures. Once "Glen Or Glenda" takes off, we'll slam you into one, then another, then another!
That's good. I could use the money.
But we need to start off with a bang! Something we <u>know</u> the audience will want to see. Mmm. What was your biggest hit?
Hmm... my biggest hit? That would probably be "Dracula."
Of course!
Those bastards at Universal. I made so much money for them, and now I can't get the time of day.
So let's make another "Dracula." Let's make "The Return of Dracula"!
We can't. Those sonsabitches control the rights.
They do? Shoot. There <u>must</u> be a way to get around that...
Haha! Dr. Acula!
Dracula?
No! <u>Doctor Acula</u>! You can still wear the cape, have the fangs... but you're a doctor! Not a count.
Ah! This is very exciting.
I gotta type this up, while it's still fresh!
Bela, what happened?!
I didn't feel well...
Let me take you to the hospital.
No hospital. Just take me to the couch...
Should I call a doctor?
Nah. This happens all the time...
Is there anything I can get you? Water? A blanket?
Goulash.
I don't know how to make goulash.
What's in the needle?
Morphine, with a demerol chaser. Eddie, I'm so broke. I don't know what I'm gonna do...
Don't worry. I'll do something.
"Greetings. I am the Count."
"Greetings. I am Slick Slomopavitz, Seeker of Adventure." Audience laughs. Applause. "Say, that's a funny place to sleep."
"It is my home."
"Oh, tract housing, huh?" Laugh. "You need a new real estate agent."
"Beg to differ. This casket incarpratates, er, inporporates "
No Bela, that's "incorporates." Look, just say "This casket has..."
Ach! How do they expect a Hungarian to pronounce this dialogue? This live television is madness!
Bela, don't worry. You're better than all this crap.
I never said I could adlib...
Forget about it. We'll make our new movie, and you'll be a star again.
Goodbye! Goodbye!
So how'd we do?
We didn't make a dime.
Bela, are you ready?
Mmph? Where am I?
You're shooting "Bride Of The Atom." Scene 85.
You'll be sitting on the right.
I'm not getting near that goddamn thing. One of those burned me on "The Return Of Chandu."
Okay. Then you'll be sitting on the <u>left</u>.
"Dear, you are a woman of super strength and beauty. A lovely vision of exquisitely beauty  shit!" Damn! Eddie, I'm sorry I can't remember all this. I'm an old man. It's too long.
That's fine, Bela. We're still rolling. Just say "Dear, you're lovely."
"Dear, you're lovely." "Strap her to the table."
Bela, I don't know what I'm doin' anymore...
Stop worrying. This is going to raise your spirits.
What is this place?
This is the Philosophical Research Society. A refuge for free thinkers. I've been coming here for twenty years.
Was I wrong to cast Loretta?
Bad decisions are easy to live with. Forget. Just keep looking forward.
But was it a bad decision? At the time, I thought her money would save the movie.
Eddie, you screwed up.
Yeah, I did.
In life, the decisions that haunt you are the ones where you just don't know... where right or wrong will never be answered. Years ago, the Hungarians contacted me. The government wanted me to come home, to be Minister of Culture.
Really?
It was a very impressive offer. Fancy offices, a big home... I'd be treated like a king.
So why didn't you do it?
I didn't know if it was a trick. They might arrest me and throw me in a gulag. I am Hungary's most famous emigrant. they'd use me as a lesson to anyone who tries to leave.
But maybe not.
Correct. So instead, I stayed here, waiting for my comeback. Always hoping... the next film, the next film... that would be the one.
Eddie, I'm so tired... I don't know if I can handle a night shoot...
Nonsense! You look great  Look, uh, why don't you lie down and take a little nap? We'll film around you for a while.
Let's shoot this fucker! Where do I go?
You'll be fighting with the octopus.
Out <u>there</u>?! What happened to the stream?
This'll look a lot better. We have to match the stock footage of the octopus underwater.
Oh, for Christ's sake.
Goddamn, it's cold!
Once you're in it, it warms up.
Fuck you! <u>You</u> come out here. Hey, toss me that J.D.
Okay! How do we turn this thing on?
Bela, somebody misplaced the motor. So when you wrestle the octopus, shake the legs a bit, to make it look like it's killing you.
Do you know I turned down "Frankenstein"?
Huh?
After I did "Dracula," the studio offered me "Frankenstein"! But I turned it down, the part wasn't sexy enough. It was too degrading for a big star like me.
Bela, I've got twentyfive scenes to shoot tonight.
Don't let me slow you down.
Alright! Let's put it on film. CAMERA! SOUND!
Bela. I just wanna thank you again for last night.
That's fine, Eddie. All in the line of duty.
No. Seriously. I want you to know how much I appreciate what you've done for me. A great man like you shouldn't have to run around in freezing water at four in the morning.
Well, there aren't too many other fellas I'd do it for...
I wrote something special for you. I got to thinking about all the sacrifices you've made... and so I wrote you a new final speech.
Eddie, this is quite a scene.
I know it's a lot to give you at the last second.
Why are you here??
Shit! Bela, what's with the gun?
Why aren't you on your honeymoon? Where's Myrna?
Norma. She changed her mind. She doesn't wanna marry me. Can you put down the gun?
What are you doing?
I was thinking about killing myself.
Jesus Christ, what an evening. What happened?
Eddie, I received a letter from the government. They're cutting off my unemployment. That's all I've got. Without it, I can't pay the rent...
Don't you have any savings?
I'm obsolete. I have nothing to live for. Tonight, I should die. And you should come with me.
Buddy, I don't know if that's such a good idea.
It'll be wonderful. We'll be at peace. In the afterlife, you don't have to worry about finding work.
Bela, I'm on your side. C'mon, give me the gun... If you give me the gun, I'll make you a drink. What are you drinking?
Formaldehyde.
Don't worry.
I'm sorry, Eddie. I'm so sorry.
Don't worry. Everything's gonna be all right.
What happened?!
Isn't it wonderful? After all these years, the press is showing an interest again in Bela Lugosi.
Bela, they're parasites! They just want to exploit you.
Fine. Let them! There is no such thing as bad press. A man from New York even said he's putting me on the front page! First celebrity to ever check into rehab. When I get out of here, I will be healthy. Strong! I will be primed for my comeback!
I've got some good news. The doctor says you're all better. You can come home.
Really? I don't feel so great.
No, you look good. And the tests came back fine. C'mon...
Eddie, I wanna make another picture. When are we gonna make another picture?
Soon, Bela... Soon.
So Eddie, don't we need a sound crew?
No, this is just the second unit. We'll do the main footage later.
Oh. So what is the scene about?
Uh... you're a very important and respected man. You're leaving your house... and you're in a hurry to a big social event.
Okay. But what if I'm not in <u>too</u> big a hurry? What if I take a moment to slow down and savor the beauty of life? To smell a flower?
That's great. Let's do a take.
And, cut...
Eddie, how was I?
Perfect.
Sorry...
Has anyone ever been to Downey?
Last night was quite a romp.
Did you see that kid grab Vampira's tits?
I envied him. Hell, I envied you too, having a girlfriend that would jump in front of a car like that.
Yeah, she's really somethin'.
I know none of <u>my</u> wives would've.
Eddie, I want to thank you. These last few days have been a good time.
I just wish you coulda seen the movie.
No problem. I know it by heart...
Mr. <u>Lugosi</u>! It is an unparalleled privilege to meet you. Allow me to introduce myself... I am CRISWELL!
It's a pleasure...
Ah, cheer up! Don't lose heart over what happened tonight. I predict that your next project will be an outstanding success!
Bring me two more Beefeater martinis. Eddie will have another whiskey, Dagmar's a Rumandcoke, Moustapha and King are chablis  hey Bela, would you like a wine?
No. I never drink  wine.
So <u>you</u> sleep in coffins?!
Yes. There is nothing more comfortable.
I can't believe this! <u>I</u> sleep in coffins!
No.
YES! My father ran a mortuary  it's an old habit!
Eddie, where are we? We passed that carwash twenty minutes ago.
I predict we're lost.
Greetings. I am the Count.
Greetings. I am Slick Slomopavitz, Seeker of Adventure.
Say, that's a funny place to sleep.
It is my home.
Oh, tract housing, huh? I guess I shouldn't complain about my duplex in Burbank. What a dump. Some places have a Murphy bed, this place has a Murphy <u>shower</u>. I still don't know where to hang the towels!
Uh, beg to differ.
"Beg to differ?!" Hey, I'm talkin' about my duplex in Burbank!
Uh, Greetings. I am the Count...
I heard you, Dr. Yueh and Gurney coming down the hall.
Those sounds could be imitated.
I'd know the difference.
Yes. Perhaps he would at that.
My father sent you to test me. Music then?
Many dangers exist on Arrakis. For one, we know the Harkonnens would not have given up their CHOAM company contract so easily.
The Harkonnens are our enemies, yes... but behind them, I suspect, is the Emperor.  THUFIR You will make a formidable Duke!
Now remember... the first step in avoiding a trap is knowing of its existence.
I know. But if it is a trap then why are we going?
We have our new army. Dr. Yueh, put the weirding module on him.
What's in the box?
Pain.
The Voice again.
I hold at your neck the gom jabbar. Don't pull away or you'll feel that poison. A Duke's son must know about many poisons  this one kills only animals.
Are you suggesting a Duke's son is an animal?
Let us say I suggest you may be human. Your awareness may be powerful enough to control your instincts. Your instincts will be to remove your hand from the box. If you do so you will die. You will feel an itching  there... see? Now the itching becomes burning... heat, upon heat, upon heat.
It burns.
SILENCE... SILENCE.
I must not fear. Fear is the mindkiller. Fear is the little death that brings total obliteration. I will face my fear... I will permit it to pass over me and through me.  The Reverend Mother moves her face up to his. Her ancient face with its metal teeth gleaming inches away breathes hotly. She is smiling.
You feel the flesh crisping?
THE PAIN!
NO!! ENOUGH!! Kull wahad! No woman child ever withstood that much. I must have wanted you to fail. Take your hand out of the box and look at it, young human.... Do it!
Pain by nerve induction... A human can resist any pain. Our test is crisis and observation.
I see the truth of it.  REVEREND MOTHER Could he be the one?... Maybe... but will he be ours to control? You know when people speak the truth?
Your mother wants you to tell me about your dreams. I only want to know one thing.... Do they come true?
Not all of them... I know which ones will.
Perhaps you are the Kwisatz Haderach.
What is it?
The person who can be many places at once... the one who bridges space and time.... He will look where we cannot.
Where?
Do you know of the Water of Life?... the Truthsayer drug?
I have heard of it.  REVEREND MOTHER It is very dangerous... very painful. The Bene Gesserit sisterhood drink it to see within.... There is a place terrifying to us... to women. It is said a man will come... the Kwisatz Haderach... he will go where we cannot... Many men have tried...
Did they try and fail?
They tried and died.... Jessica!
I sense your teachings in him. Ignore the regular order of training. His safety requires The Voice.
I've heard enough of my safety... What about my father?... I heard you talking. You speak as if he was dead. Well, he isn't!
Well he isn't... and he won't die... Tell me he won't die!
What can be done has been done.
MOTHER! Tell me!
... Many men have tried.
Did they try and fail?
They tried and died.
Don't try your powers on me. Try looking into that place where you dare not look. You'll find me there staring back at you!! You Bene Gesserit have waited ninety generations to produce the one person your schemes required. Here I stand. But... I will never be yours.
Stop him, Jessica!
You mustn't speak of...
SILENCE!
You have strength... real strength... You shall be known as Usul, which is the strength of the base of the pillar. This is your secret name in our troop. But you must choose the name of manhood which we will call you openly.
What do you call the mouse shadow in the second moon?
We call that one Muad'dib.
Could I be known as Paul Muad'dib?
You are Paul Muad'dib, and your mother shall be a Sayyadina among us.... We welcome you.
Water on Arrakis!!! I have seen this place in a dream. A treasure.
Greater than treasure, Usul. We have thousands of such caches. Only a few of us know them all. When we have enough... we shall change the face of Arrakis. Listen!...
The Water of Life.
The most lethal poison in the Universe.
My own name is a killing word. Will it be a healing word as well?
Usul... these are fifteen of our fiercest fighters to serve you as your guard... the Fedaykin.
We surprised a band of smugglers.
Too bad... thought they were Harkonnen.
Long live the fighters!
Long live the fighters!
Are you a Fremen?
I am a servant of the His Majesty the Emperor. I have served His Majesty on Arrakis long enough for my eyes to change.
He's hiding something.
You've worn a stillsuit before?
No.
Your suit is fitted desert fashion. Who told you how to do that?
No one. It... seemed the proper way.
That it is. He shall know your ways as if born to them.
Will we see a worm?
Where there is spice and spice mining there are always worms.
Always?
Always.
Why do they come?
To protect their territory. Vibrations attract them.  PAUL I've registered him now... a knife is a sheath on his left arm... He's strong... a person born to command... He's hiding many things. Is there a relationship between the worms and the spice?
Spice!... pure unrefined spice!
Bless the Maker and his water... Bless the coming and going of him. May his passage cleanse the world.
Liet?
You are about to witness something few have seen  watch! Watch!
Paul, this is the Reverend Mother Gaius Helen Mohiam. She is going to... observe you... Please...  REVEREND MOTHER Jessica, you know it must be done. I enjoin you to stand guard at the door and practice the meditation of peace.
Your Reverence.
What does she fear? What about my Father?
Paul... please, Paul... listen to the Reverend Mother and do what she tells you.
Don't touch my mother...
Oh great mother! He's trying the voice. The Reverend Mother said it could save him.
Remove her gag!
Excellent!
I can't maintain any altitude... we'll never reach the safety of rock. Maybe that small rock.
Where are we do you think?
The South Polar regions... the forbidden area. We must make it to that rock...
A million deaths are not enough for Yueh...
Where are my feelings... I feel for no one...
Listen to me!... you wanted to know about my dreams... and I've just had a waking dream... do you know why?...  JESSICA Calm yourself/
The spice! It's in everything here. The air, the soil, the food... It's like the Truthsayer drug..... It's a poison!!!! You knew the spice would change me. But thanks to your teachings it's changed my consciousness. I can see it... I can see it.
Is he....?
You carry my unborn sister in your womb!
He knows.
You and your Bene Gesserit sisterhood... I'm not your Kwisatz Haderach... I'm something different, something unexpected! I'm a seed. I am so much more... You don't begin to know me...
It's further than I thought... a worm is sure to come.... I'll plant a thumper, that should divert it.  Paul moves off into the shadows. Suddenly, Jessica SEES a burst of LIGHTNING illuminate the mountain of rock in the distant and the vast dunes before them.
...the night is a tunnel... a hole into tomorrow... if we're to have a tomorrow...
Remember... walk without rhythm and we won't attract a worm... it'll go to the thumper.
I'm ready.
Run!
I can't... I can't.
Cinnamon... the spice! Do you smell it?
Yes...
I know the secret. The worm is the spice... the spice is the worm.
What's happened?... Why did it leave?
Someone started another thumper.... We're not alone.
Mancarved steps.
Yes...
Stop him yourself.
You saw a part of what the race needs in the beginning. In time you perverted the truth. You sought to control human breeding and intermix a select few according to a selfish master plan. How little you understand.
You know the ancient tongues?
I know the Bhotani Jib and Chakobsa, all the hunting languages.
As the legend says.
That's it! The Missionaria Protectiva has been here planting protective legends against a day of Bene Gesserit need. And that day has come. I must play out this sham. I know the Dark things and the way of the Great Mother. Miseces prejin.
Do you know this my lady?
It could only be one thing.... It's a crysknife.
Say it not lightly... Do you know its meaning?
Here is why this Fremen has taken service with me, to ask that one question. Delay is as dangerous as the wrong answer. Shadout is Chakobsa... knife, in Chakobsa is... maker of death. It's a maker...
Maker?... Maker is the key word... the tooth of the worm? That was close... Did you think that I, knowing the mysteries of the Great Mother, would not know the maker?
My lady, when one has lived with prophecy for so long, the moment of revelation is a shock.
Perhaps these are the ones Mapes told us of.
Are you trained in the ways of the desert?
No, but many consider my training valuable.
I will take the boyman... he shall have sanctuary in my tribe...  A LOW NOTE on a dip stick is blown by one of the Fremen tribe. Jessica shifts, Paul sees it, and just as Stilgar begins a reach for his weapon, Jessica turns, slashes out, utters a SOUND, whirls again and with rock behind her holds Stilgar helpless in front of her  her hand at his throat. Paul moves on her first move. He races up a rocky incline.
Stop! Get back!! She has the weirding way. Why didn't you tell us! Great gods... if you can do this to the strongest of us you're worth ten times your weight of water. As a leader of my people I give you my bond: teach us this weirding way and you both shall have sanctuary. Your water shall mingle with our water.
Then I will teach you our way of battle.... you have the word bond of a Bene Gesserit.
Sayyadina. Our Reverend Mother tells me she is too old... She has been calling through space and time for you to come and let her rest. She asks that you pass within.
They want me to take the Water of Life... the Truthsayer drug... so dangerous, yet... we must move swiftly if we're to secure our place among these Fremen. I will try to pass within.
Death may be the result.... Are you sure?
I must do this for Paul, but what of my unborn child?
No music. I'm packing this for the crossing. Shield practice.
Shield practice? Gurney... we had practice  this morning..... I'm not in the mood.
Not in the mood?! Mood's a thing for cattle and love play... not fighting.
I'm sorry Gurney.
Not sorry enough.
What's gotten into Gurney? He's not faking. Paul presses forward and the fight moves quickly around the room. The smell of ozone grows stronger as the shields hit and SPARK off one another. Paul directs a parry downwards, turns, and leads Gurney against the table, plunging at just the right moment to pin Gurney against the table top with his blade right at Gurney's neck.
Is this what you seek?
Good... the slow blade penetrates the shield... but look down.
We'd have joined each other in death. However, you did seem to finally get the "mood".
Would you really have drawn my blood?
If you'd fought one whit below your abilities I'd have scratched you a good one.
Things have been so serious here lately.
Yes. I sensed the play in you lad, but this can no longer be play. Tomorrow we leave for Arrakis! Arrakis is real. The Harkonnens are real.
You've no need of your weapons with me Gurney Halleck.
Paul!! Paul!!
Don't you trust your own eyes.
They said you were dead. They said...
Gurney... I see Thufir Hawat among the captives. Let him stand free.
My Lord?
Let him stand free!
This is a Harkonnen animal. Let me, please, my Lord.
The Emperor's blade.
So, this is Leto the Just...
I hope I made myself clear. You may call him "The Duke," "My lord," or "Sire." And there is a more ancient term you might keep in mind  "Noble Born."
Play out your little comedy while you can offworlders...
The Duke is to be addresses as...  Kynes comes forward and adjusts the Duke's suit, checking seals and pulling on straps.
Basically...
Sire!
Yes, Sire.
It's a highefficiency filter and heat exchange system. Perspiration passes through the first layer and is gathered in the second. The salt is separated. Breathing and walking provide the pumping action. The reclaimed water circulates to catchpockets from which you can drink through this tube at your neck. Urine and feces are processed in the thigh pads. Should you be in the open desert, remember to breathe in through your mouth, out through the nose tubes.
Dust cloud ahead, Sire.
That's it... spice mining... no other cloud quite like it. See the spotters over it? They're watching for wormsign... the telltale sand waves. Seismic probes on the surface, too Sire... worms can travel too deep for their waves to show... Looks like a good patch of spice.
We have just folded space from Ix...
Yes?... How was your journey?
Many machines on Ix... new machines.
Oh yes?  NAVIGATOR Better than those on Richesse.. You are transparent... I see many things... I see plans within plans.
I see two Great Houses  House Atreides, House Harkonnen  feuding... I see you behind it.
Yes.
You must share with us.  EMPEROR The Atreides house is building a secret army!... using a technique unknown to us... a technique involving sound. The Duke is becoming more popular in the Landsraad... he could threaten me.... I have ordered House Atreides to occupy Arrakis to mine the spice... thus replacing their enemies the Harkonnens.... House Atreides will not refuse because of the tremendous power they think they will gain. Then, at an appointed time Baron Harkonnen will return to Arrakis and launch a sneak attack on House Atreides... I have promised the Baron five legions of my Sardaukar terror troops.
So the Harkonnens will rid you of House Atreides...
Yes.
Can you hear me?... If this visit has anything to do with spice...  The Guild Navigator shudders and swishes quite violently in his tank.
LISTEN TO ME!! The spice must flow... the spice has given me accelerated evolution for four thousand years... it has enabled you to live two hundred years... the spice helps make the sapho juice, which gives the redlipped mentats the ability to be living computers... the secret side of spice... the water of life.
I can assure you...
Do not interrupt!!! Do not speak lightly of the spice... ONE SMALL POINT...
A Third Stage Guild Navigator will be here within minutes!
We felt his presence.
I shall want telepathy during his visit and a report when we're finished.
Their minds are so.... They move in strange directions....
Yes?
Forced spice evolution of humans changes many things.... I must sit close to him.
He will not permit anyone but me to see him. You must be outside this room.... Do what you can.
I am your Truthsayer, my lord... He is here, my lord.
Yes, my Lord.
We are alone...
So you are Dr. Kynes, the Imperial Ecologist?
I prefer the more ancient term, planetologist... Noble Born.
This is my son, Paul.
I understand we have you to thank for these stillsuits, Doctor.
They are Fremen suits. I hope they fit well, my lord.
My thanks.
With your permission...
What happens now?
The carryall will come and lift off the spice harvester. Try and get in close over the harvester... you'll find this interesting Sire.  The Duke accelerates the ornithopter in the direction of the harvester. Paul can SEE...
What's that you're saying?
Nothing.
My Lord!
Piter.
The Atreides will be leaving Caladan soon, Baron, and I have here your answer from Duke Leto.
What does Leto say, Piter?
He wishes to inform you that Vendetta  as he puts it, using the ancient tongue, the art of Kanly  is still alive. He does not wish to meet or speak with you.
I made my peace gesture... the forms of Kanly have been obeyed.
It was Feyd? It was Feyd! Where is the ducal signet ring? I must have his ring.
The ring?... he was brought to us as is, Baron. I...
You killed the doctor too soon, you fool!
... and, Principal Collins, you'll be pleased to know that this year Wednesdays are "South of the Border" days. We'll serve a spicy tuna tamale along with a cheese quesadilla.
Good. Good. Good. Well, that's good.
God, I've missed you.
And I you.
You know honey, I've finally figured out a way of bilking enough money from the school to get us that condo in Waikiki.
How babycakes? You've done it all.
Small potatoes. This one is big time. This is visionary. This idea is genius.
It's the big potato.
Yes, it's the big potato. Just have a look at this.
Anyway, the state is giving a hundred thousand dollars in his name to every school that has a Special Needs class.
Oh, this is fantastic. So all we have to do is kill this Moffit guy and we get all the money!
No. No. That's not it. We don't kill him. We don't kill anybody. But I like the way you're thinking. You're focused and you're trying to follow. No, what we need to do is start a fake Special Needs class.
We start our own class?
Maybe someday. Aloha cold weather, aloha hot weather.
You said "aloha" twice.
Aloha means hello and goodbye.
Oh wow. Look at you.
Times two.
I think you'll make a good teacher.
To take a picture for Superintendent Zimmer?
Yes!
So far so good. We'll need more pictures. Why don't you take them on a field trip tomorrow.
And...?
And, take some more pictures.
Wow, you are smart.
And you are great in bed.
Knock knock.
Who's there?
Guess what"s under these coconuts.
What?
It's a surprise.
Well I've got a little surprise for you.
You got the Extender?
No. No. I heard from Superintendent ZIMMER this morning and evidently he's so impressed with our Special Needs class, he's bringing Richard MOFFIT himself to the Thanksgiving Day parade check in hand.
Monkey, this is too exciting! I can't believe our dream is coming true.
So what do you keep in there?
Oh, things. Photos. Tapes. I tape everything that goes on in this office.
Everything?
Everything. Just for the record.
Oh, just like the President.
Just like the President.
Baby, I'm going to spend the morning at the mall. You know, shop for Waikiki. Honey, what are you looking for?
The chest! The chest that I put my papers in.
What papers?
The documents. The photos! The tapes! The evidence.
The evidence of what?
Sweetheart keep up with me for half a minute. The evidence of every scam we ever pulled. The evidence that's going to put us away for twenty years.
Where is it?
I don't know where it is. It's not here. It's been stolen.
Wait a minute, I think I know who stole it.
No you don't know who stole it. Just let me do the thinking.
It was Jessica. That girl who tried to follow me on the field trip.
JESSICA. Are you sure?
She's been snooping around a lot, asking questions.
Okay, I'll take care of Jessica.
Are you going to kill her?
Why don't you see to it the kids are ready for the parade tomorrow. I have to pay somebody a little visit.
So the chest is still out there somewhere.
Yes. So as soon as Zimmer shows up, we'll get our check and blow this pop stand before anyone finds out anything.
This band sounds terrible.
I sold all the wind instruments. Hawaiian Air, business class. And you like that new fur coat?
Love it!
Well there's a reason why that mascot isn't a stallion anymore.
This is horse?
No... no it's not horse, you see I sold the horse.
I'm not sure if I can do this.
Sure you can. We gotta nail this guy. You'll be fine.
Collins can be a pretty crafty guy, what do I do if he smells the trap.
I don't think he'll smell anything  just make sure he takes the check. I've been through this a hundred times.
Well you know Detective, he's expecting 'Moffit' to be someone who has... certain... well...
Yeah, I get it. Don't worry I studied acting at the police academy just let me do the talking and you'll be fine.
I am strong!
Yes you are.
I can turn on all the faucets in my house. Even the hose.
But we don't drink from the house do we.
Let's go Margie. The museum ain't going to teach itself.
Museum huh, haven't been there since my husband left me. I love art.
Looking for a scoop, huh? I'll give you a scoop... of short bus. Lose her!
Loser... oh yeah he was a loser alright. A big loser.
What?
He was a big loser! What are you deaf!?
Uh, no and I don't appreciate...turn down here!
That's great, now make a left, then straight!
Oh, yeah he was straight all right, just wasn't very good in the sack. I used to give him directions. Higher, lower, faster, harder, small circles, do the alphabet. Useless.
Left here! Left!
You bet I left him, took the dog and we was history.
Ha! Too big to make the turn!
No, it actually fit quite nicely. Well, except for the fact that it wasn't really as long as it was wide.
I think you did it.
Damn right I did it. Went back and set the house on fire, his little floozy testified in court  and I ended up doing ten years at Rikers, got my teeth knocked out by Mike the Dyke.
What the hell are you talking about?
Your assignment is to pick the class. Find some other students just as special as you.
Will that be on the midterm?
No.
Sorry, Ms. Heller. I think they're used to me teaching.
People! Come on. "Parade" float.
That's not bad. How about a float of George Washington crossing the Delaware?
Or maybe crossing a river!
Obviously.
So miss snoopy reporter girl, it appears that you've snooped yourself into a corner and snoopcuffed yourself to a desk. Whose wearing the Coconut bra now?
Senior year. My little boy. Who woulda thunk it? You're a good kid, Lloyd. I don't say it enough, but I'm proud of you son.
Thanks, Pop.
LLOYD, may I see you a minute?
Class, please study on your own. There seems to be a family emergency because there's no other reason why my father would interrupt me WHILE I'M WORKING!
What are you crazy kids doing in my tool shed?
We're not crazy. We're "special". PRINCIPAL COLLINS wants us to have our own classroom!
My boy's special, well how about that. I knew you were different.
So I guess you'll need a new spot for your moonshine.
I reckon so.
Thanks for the grub, Mrs. D. Where's Mr. D?
He passed away three years ago.
Well he missed a great pot of stew!
It was meatloaf. You just put everything in your soup.
I liked it a lot.
Hey you two. Lights out.
Hey can be on top?
Mrs. D! I was hoping you'd show up.
Oh honey, I wouldn't miss this for the world.
Have you got what I want?
You know I do!
Oh yeah, give it to me.
How was that?
It's too close to call. Okay next contest, now lets...
Sure.
Go in there and get us two slushees.
Okay.
Do we have a deal?
Yeah, deal. Give me the two dollars.
Ha! I said "dollhairs." Psych! But a deal's a deal, my friend. In you go.
Fine. Give me the doll hairs.
Uhoh. Harry?
Hello, little orphan boy. What happened to you?
Skateboard.
What? It's nothing, the cast comes off in six weeks.
Of course it does. Obviously in denial. Maybe we can help.
How much homework is there?
That's the downside. There is none.
Wait a minute. I can spend the whole year in a class taught by the lunch lady? Can I bring my girlfriend?
You can bring whatever you want, little friend.
Well I need to get a job and you're telling me that if I join up  I can really come and go whenever I want?
You were born free and free you should remain.
Do I know you?
Duh. I'm in your class at school.
Oh my God, it's really you. You're HARRY's friend, right?
I don't know if you'd call us "friends"...
You really are a pirate.
Can you believe it?
So I'm an "arrrrrshole", eh Captain Rob?
What are you talking about?
Hey, Turk rescued you from the nerd. You're in!
I'll talk to you later.
HARRY, I heard Collins has you in some kind of special class.
If dou're trying to get in, dou're doo late.
Oh no, I know that class isn't for me. But I'm happy for you guys.
Why ith dat newth?
This school's never had one before. I'd like to talk to you and all your special friends.
Yes, what?
Don't answer me. Say what I say.
Well I was born in St. Louis.
Do you want me to pet your head?
What are you doing here?
Checking up on my friend, Harry.
Oh Harry's doing just fine, he's just about to open up.
What?
You know, "some". The fag stuff.
HARRY and I have been talking about school. In fact, I want to ask you something.
I know, you want go for a ride.
Where'd that come from? He holds up a giant key chain.
Come on, I live with the janitor. I have a key to every room in the school.
So could you get us into the principal's office?
Principal's office? Yeah, I guess I can swing that.
So, when can we do it?
Tomorrow night?
Oh, baby, you're the bestest.
Oh, go on.
Well, something stinks.
Maybe it's this mix tape I made you. Or maybe these flowers. He gives Jessica the flowers and tape.
Uh, thanks. God I'm so excited! So, are you ready to take me to the principal's office? He whips out the key, she takes it.
So no small talk? Good, 'cause I don't know how to make that. Yep. Small talk. Not for me. Not a fan. Got any hobbies? How 'bout this weather?
What are you doing?
Let's just do it and get out of here.
I'm so close I can feel it.
Me too. I'm almost there.
That's it. I'm done.
That was fast. Well, did you at least enjoy it?
No, it was a complete waste of time.
This is so embarrassing, it's never happened before. Well, maybe a couple of times, but I was alone.
That's my boyfriend.
Boyfriend? What about all that talk about riding my waxer?
Thanks, Lloyd. But I didn't find what I was looking for. Oh can you do me a favor and clean up? Collins can't know we were here.
HARRY! Lloyd! You guys are a mess.
Looks like the best man won.
... If I may quote the twentieth century poet  Joe Piscahpo: You look Marvelous...
LLOYD, when we were in Principal Collins's office, did you see any kind of chest?
HARRY's treasure chest? Sure. I know where that is.
Don't worry about me, I'll be fine. I can take care of myself and I'm getting the story every high school reporter dreams of.
"My dream date with Principal Collins."
He's going to be in jail for a long time.
Principal of jail. Wow. What a promotion.
TURK, leave him alone.
TURK, leave him alone. You're coming too.
TURK, what are you doing here?
Special Needs class.
Being a jerk doesn't make you special.
You're just jealous.
And, Ching Chong, you're not a Special Needs kid. You're just a foreign exchange student.
You had some questions.
Last year Toby was in A.P. English. And Lewis won the Science Fair. What are they doing in Special Needs?
Poor question. Too wordy. A good question gets right to the point. Example, where's my chest?
I don't know what you're talking about.
Oh I think you do.
My parents are going to wonder where I am.
One phone call from the principal will take care of that, my dear.
So what did you say to my parents on the phone?
Not to expect you tonight.
I'm going to ask you one last time and if I don't get an answer, I don't even want to think about the consequences which would be frightening to say the least. Where's my chest, Jessica?
I don't know what you're talking about.
Well, what have we here? It appears be a tape.
That's not your tape.
Then where did you get this not my tape.
THAT'S NOT YOUR TAPE.
Don't play with me dear, you're way out of your league.
MS. HELLER, mind if I tag along on your field trip? I'm thinking of doing a story on your special needs class.
I'm not interested. Not after the smear story you did on my chicken sushi.
Well, when 200 students are hospitalized with stomach cramps I think it's newsworthy.
Nevertheless, you could have mentioned the sauce. Well, I see you have a camera.
So can I come along?
No.
Are you wearing a coconut bra?
Oh, you're good.
Why are you teaching Special Needs? You're the lunch lady.
Dietician! This interview is over. You can have the camera back tomorrow. Come by the classroom. Heller heads off.
You mean the lunch room?
I thought I told you to get lost.
Look Ms. Heller, there's something fishy here, and I don't think it's Friday's special.
I wouldn't know. Being that I'm just the teacher and all.
You could've saved that for the tooth fairy!
That's stupid! I happen to know my mom is the tooth fairy.
Your mom is the tooth fairy? That is so cool!
Yeah, she must do all the flying around when I'm asleep. HARRY Dunne.
No thanks, not hungry. Harry Dunne. Why does that name not sound familiar?
Probably because we've never met.
No, that's not it. Anyway  LLOYD Christmas.
Here I am bragging my Mom is the tooth fairy, and I'm talking to Santa's kid!
I haven't seen you around here before.
Home school. Til today.
Home school? What's that?
I go to school where I live.
Me too!
I think it's just over there.
Is that what I think it is?
No, it's a treasure map.
Cool.
My mom says the treasure's somewhere in the school.
I don't know. I'm pretty familiar with the school and I've never seen that "X". But... I do know something.
What?
You're it.
Yeah, dangerous cult. Don't make eye contact or they might talk to you.
Don't we want them to talk to us?
No no no no no.
Why not?
Well, besides cooties and other medical reasons, they're not in the cool crowd. Which I am, and you want to be. Know what I mean?
No.
Oh my gosh, I don't think she's even wearing underwear!
How nerdy is that? I'm wearing two pairs right now.
Me too!
You know Harry, this is my favorite time of day.
Yeah, it's nice. And your friend TURK is totally great.
Yeah, he's aces. Thanks, Turk!
God, she's beautiful. My wiener's all tingly.
Shift to your left.
Who's Principal Collins?
The principal.
Wow.
You know, you're the first person I've brought here.
Oh, is this your special place?
No, I just usually eat my lunch on the crapper. Saves time. Out with the old, in with the new.
Can we eat there tomorrow?
Sure, but first we have to find kids special, needy and classy enough to be in Special Needs.
It'll be like taking candy from a stranger.
H A R R Y...
The second R is silent.
Oh, of course.
One day they'll find a cure.
You brave soldier.
We're part of a special class taught by the lunch lady, er, I mean Ms. Heller. Maybe you'd like to join us, it doesn't require any walking.
And nobody will make fun of your horrible deformity.
...oh also, we even have a slogan. 'S' and 'P' stands for 'Special People', which is the kind of kids we are. 'A' and 'Z' is for 'Aren't Zeros' because that is less then one, and when you put it all together it spells...
HARRY, what are you doing? She's a foreign exchange student. She doesn't speak the English. CHING CHONG ching chingy chingy chong chong.
Wow! It's a halfboy, halfhorse. The boys walk up to him, impressed.
Now that's more of what we're looking for.
Maybe we should ask Jessica to join the class.
JESSICA? Please hold for my reaction.
Got any crazy eights?
Go fish.
Oh, yeah. Well I almost always beat Captain Rob.
Who's Captain Rob?
Just a guy I hang out with.
I know the type. Lives in the basement, smells like a sponge...
No! Captain Rob is seven feet tall, wears an eye patch, got a hook for a hand...
Sounds like a pirate.
What? No no. He's got a parrot on his shoulder, buries treasure...
Yeah, he's a pirate.
I don't think so. This guy drinks rum from a barrel, says "yo ho ho" has a peg leg...
Peg leg?
Yeah, gocart accident.
Exactly! A pirate!
If he heard you talking like that he'd make you walk the plank. Three, two, one. Now it's your turn, spin.
Aha! You landed on Candyland! Now swallow it!
Whoa. What was that?
What?
Your mom made a move on me.
She did not.
Who knows? Maybe someday I'll be your new daddy.
LLOYD, she's my mom.
I can't help my heart. And when I'm your dad, you'll have to do as I say.
Will not.
Don't use that tone with me, young man.
Shut up!
I will stop this car right now.
You're not my real dad.
You take that back!
Shut Up! Buttlick!
Where did you learn that word?
I learned it from listening to you! I hate you!
Kids.
That would be me, sir. The wife made stew last night.
Shut up Lloyd. You're not married yet.
Collins is a great man!
Now you see why he was elected principal?
HARRY.
You look familiar. Did I have your brother?
No.
Okay. Anyone else have any questions?
What's with horseboy, now he's a bright shiny sun?
Don't look directly at him.
...and who was Benjamin Franklin again?
The pilgrim who used penicillin to kill Godzilla.
I didn't know that.
Welcome to public school, my friend.
Hey, teach, how'd you get so smart?
When you live in the basement of the school, you breathe in a lot of chalk dust. It writes out all the answers on your brain. Now how about a slushee?
A. Slushee. Don't tell me. Abraham Slushee. Third president of the United States.
And he invented fire.
Nice jugs.
They can't be real.
You're it.
Oh, no. You're not gettin' me again.
You're it.
Oh! Ho! Okay. You wanna go?
Can he do that?
HARRY, he can and he did. And now it's on like Donkey Kong.
These are really cold, huh?
That's why you have to drink it fast, trust me.
Owww... refreshing.
Ow... What do you want to do, HARRY?
I don't know. Owwww.
Maybe I should go home and grade papers. Owwww.
My head is suddenly killing me. Maybe it's from all the learning today.
Put some ice on it.
Owww.
And my mouph is frozen.
There she goes, now wearing nothing but her underwear.
What a nerd. I don't know where that girl's ever gonna find a husband.
LLOYD, where've you been? I've been waiting forever. I'm so embarrassed.
Sorry. Why are you dressed like a Queen!?
...cause you said...
HARRY, I said don't 'dress like a Queen'!
Oh... that makes much more sense. I had a heck of time getting these drapes from my mom. You don't want to know where I put the cord.
HARRY! Here he comes.
According to the map, we're just about at school.
Yeah, but we still haven't found any treasure.
What?
Our own special bus.
How do you know it's for us?
Duh. The cool kids sit in the back of the bus. Here, every row is in the back. We're all cool!
Nope. I was right.
Wanna bet?
Uh oh. Captain Rob's always been my partner.
Sucks for you.
Who's your partner?
I don't know. I haven't decided yet.
Well... Uh...maybe... jeez, how can I say this... you and I could...perhaps ...maybe...uh... partner up?
You and me? Dream on, desperado.
Oh. Sorry. You're right, field trip partner is a big commitment.
I'm kidding! Of course I'll be your partner.
That's a cow, Harry.
Well, I could go for a tall glass of polar bear milk right now.
Sorry about that Harry, first time I've brought a friend up there. You okay?
Yea!
Who cares? Chicks are for fags.
I think she wants me to come over to put me into the right position to check out her delicates, what ever that means.
Oh yeah, buddy, you're gonna get "some".
Some what?
You know... She's gonna be all over you like a barrel of monkeys, with her tight shirt and short skirt... Eeeww, it's so faggy I can't even talk about it.
Come on, Lloyd. You must know someone I can talk to.
Sure I do. On one condition.
You can't marry my mom.
It's really not up to you, Harry. But we just want you to feel like you're part of the decision.
Shut up!
Alright, if you really want to go down this road, well girl's like chocolate.
Oh hey Lloyd, why are you here?
Just wanted to see how your doing.
I kinda screwed things up.
I'm sure you're overreacting.
I don't think so.
You're always your harshest critic.
She wants me to stay for dinner, I don't know what to say to her.
Okay, I saw this in a movie once. Open the dining room window and follow my lead. Say what I say.
Good  thanks Lloyd! I'll meet you downstairs, I gotta find some clothes.
HARRY, can you hear me?
Yes.
You have beautiful eyes.
You have beautiful eyes.
Hey, where did you come from?
Hey, where did you come from?
Do you want me to pet your head?
I bet you want your head scratched.
I bet you want your head scratched.
Don't snap at me like that. You're lucky I don't punch you right in the face.
Don't snap at me like that. You're lucky I don't punch you right in the face.
Now what are you staring at, you ugly monkey?
What are you staring at, you ugly monkey?
Sure, I like a woman with some meat on her bones.
So, have you given him "some" yet?
LLOYD, what are you doing? That's JESSICA and... my mom.
HARRY, this is my fantasy! I suggest you leave  before I imagine something horrible.
But
HARRY!
You're right. Hey, thanks for the jet pack. Your fantasies are so much cooler than mine. Bye Mom.
HARRY! I found the treasure!
Go away, assface.
Did you hear what I said? The treasure! Like on your map!
Yeah, right. Why don't you show it to your "girlfriend"?
JESSICA and I are through. I couldn't stand being with her knowing you liked her. It wasn't worth our friendship. Oh, and she also has a boyfriend.
Do you hear something, Captain Rob?
Captain Rob came back?
Yeah, he does sound like a rat fink.
Hey, there's no reason to use that kind of language!
Good one, Captain Rob. He does look like a youknowwhat.
Oh, telling inside jokes now, are we? That's it. You're out of the cool crowd. Next time Turk's passing out wedgies, you ain't gettin' one.
HARRY, would you like to share with the rest of us what's so funny?
You wouldn't get it. Just a private joke between best friends.
No one knows?
Me, me, me!
The answer is George Jefferson.
By the way, did Captain Rob mention how I beat the crap out of him this afternoon?
No. What happened?
Nothing. Why, whaddya hear?
A raft.
A blimp.
A turd.
George Washington!
Who?
Hello, he only invented money!
Wow, we built a whole float in one afternoon. And now the reward.
What do you mean? We can't go in there or we'll be "it".
If you have to ask, you don't know.
Yeah, that's why I asked.
You certainly did.
I know I did.
Sorry, no further questions.
You're it.
Am not.
Are, too.
D2.
It's okay. I want the rush.
No. Look.
Hey, it's Jessica.
That must be her boyfriend's car.
PRINCIPAL COLLINS is her boyfriend!
Now it makes total sense why she didn't want him to know we were in his office the other night.
No wonder we both struck out with her. Who can compete with the sexual power of the man who occupies the highest office in the land?
He's like the Pope. Like we're gonna snake a girl away from the Pope.
Hey, let's go spy on them.
Cute puppy.
He must be on his way to pee out a fire.
Hey, look. Ice cream.
You thinking what I'm thinking?
You found my treasure? Why didn't you tell me.
Three words. I did. But you were all mad at me and wouldn't listen.
Well, I'm listening now.
Me, too. This is my favorite part of the tape.
You know Lloyd, the real treasure is our friendship.
How true. But I still feel I deserve more than you do of this treasure. I mean, I found it.
But my mom gave me the map.
I lugged it all over town!
I made the polar bear pants.
But I ate your Mom's pie.
I... found that rock.
It was a diamond and you swallowed it.
Enough! Look what this cursed chest is doing to us.
I don't know who we are anymore.
I have no idea  it's full of files and documents and tapes.
Do you know what this means?
Hey Lloyd. This looks like another one of your mix tapes.
Maybe the pirate who buried this treasure chest made it. Put it on.
That makes total sense. The treasure chest was in his office. Which means Principal Collins is a pirate! I'm surprised Captain Rob never mentioned him.
That's because Captain Rob is not a pirate. We've been through this.
What was it Jessica wanted us to do with this chest again?
Something about showing the world what Principal Collins has done.
Right. She's so proud of her boyfriend.
What? What did we do?
We never thanked him for giving us our Special Needs class.
That's what Jessica was talking about!
She wants us to show the world what a great guy Principal Collins is.
And like she said, do it before the parade.
A float!
That's it. Build him a float for the Thanksgiving Day parade!
HARRY, we found the real thing to be thankful for. Screw George Washington!
Yes. Screw George Washington. Just like Marilyn Monroe did.
Ready Lloyd?
Put a fork in me Harry, lets get started.
Wait, wait!
HARRY, are we gonna build this thing or not?
LLOYD, what I'm saying is we may already have what we want.
Guys, this is much better.
PRINCIPAL COLLINS is a greater American than George Washington will ever be.
Oh my god. Can you believe your ears?
Yeah! No more clicks and whistles! Now she speaks perfect English!
You're a great teacher, Lloyd.
Start the tape, Lloyd.
Roger that, Wilco.
Oh, good. There's Jessica.
How could she miss this? This whole salute to Collins was her idea.
Hey there goes Principal Collins!
He's so modest. Probably embarrassed by all the attention.
Well, that's too bad, this is his day.
Oh my God! She's twotiming PRINCIPAL COLLINS!
And with that complete loser
Ya know Harry, I think this whole experience has soured me on women.
Yeah, we should never let a woman come between us again.
I don't think that'll happen. We've learned a valuable lesson we won't ever forget.
Hold up. First, we have to decide who gets who, remember? No more competition?
Right.
Okay. Which one do you want?
The one on the left.
Damn! What are the odds?
What?
That's the one I wanted.
She's one of a kind.
Try one in a million!
Well, what should we do?
You take her.
No Lloyd. Chicks are for fags  I'm not going to do it.
Sorry, Charlie.
Hey, where'd you go?
Beats me. It's Jessica's Dad  she said he's really anal.
That's gross.
I know.
Is it true what you said to Captain Rob?
Yes, Harry. I can't home school you anymore. So maybe it's time to make some new friends, some friends your own age...
I'm just not ready.
Wow, a treasure map! What's the treasure?
It could be anything. You're going to discover a whole new world when you get to school.
Wow just like Marco Polo.
I don't follow.
You know Mom, like in the pool.
You're going to be just fine, HARRY.
I know I am, Mom.
Here's your lunch. And an apple and banana for extra energy.
Maybe the treasure's a chest full of apples and bananas!
Mom, you know that never works.
Right.
Oh, Harry, I'm so proud of you making a real friend.
Is it okay if he spends the night?
LLOYD, did you ask your parents?
Then a sleepover is okay by me. Okay boys, eat up.
Oh Lloyd, you gotta taste my Mom's pie!
So boys, how was your first day?
Uh... not a great first impression... Dinner's ready.
Then what are we doing sitting around yapping? Let's eat!
The name's Walter.
Well la de da.
We've got some margarine too if you'd like to scoop it out of the tub.
No, I'm fine thanks.
Well save room for Mrs. Matthews famous baked brisket.
Famous? I've never heard of it.
Hi.
Well I hope the carpet matches the drapes.
Excuse me.
In the new library there.
Oh, yeah. I don't think they do. You're new here, right?
Depends how you define 'new'...
You're the kid who was home schooled.
Yeah. How'd you know?
I've been assigned to write an article about you for the school paper. It was either a feature on you or the new fourcolor ink pens at the student store.
Four colors? Neato!
Yeah, well, I'd much rather write an expose or a hard hitting investigative piece, but nothing really ever happens around here. But, I chose you and that's fine. I'm Jessica Matthews.
HARRY Dunne.
Hey guys.
Heddo Jethica.
Do you thill want to do an arwticle on me, Jethica?
Yes, you and the whole Special Needs class.
Tomorrow we go on a feeeeeeee wald twrip.
A field trip? Maybe I'll join you. See you tomorrow.
HARRY!
MS. HELLER said not to talk to you.
That's because Ms. Heller doesn't want you to know this whole thing is a scam.
Aha! I had a feeling it was all a fake.
You did?
Yeah. Look at this polar bear. It hasn't moved in half an hour. And those Eskimos over there...I'm sure at least one of them is a mannequin.
Oh Harry, you're so funny. Now I have something that's kind of delicate...
Oh, you want to talk about your delicates?
Are you trying to be funny? Or are you actually re, re...special
We're all special. Everyone Lloyd and I chose for the class is special.
You and Lloyd chose the class!?
Excuse me?
Come over around seven.
O'clock?
Yeah...
Gotcha.
Wipe your feet. My parents are totally anal.
Ooh gross.
Would you like something to drink?
Yeah, but I'm buying.
Okay, there's a lot for us to go over, so it may get hard for you.
Hard for me? Hard for me? Hard for me? Hard for me? You had questions?
I checked with the school board, she's not an accredited teacher.
That's okay. Lloyd's really the one teaching the class.
LLOYD? What about Ms. Heller?
She says that she's got more important things to do now that the new mall opened.
Sit down, I have something to tell you.
I'm fine.
Well, I'll tell you what I think. I think she and Principal Collins are embezzling money from the school, and I think they've been doing it for years.
What? Well now I'm in a position where I may just heed your help.
Po, po, position...? Hey, here's thought, have you a bathroom?
Just down the hall.
Very good. Back in a jiff.
HARRY? Are you okay?
Are you kidding? I couldn't be more okay.
My mom wants to know if you can stay for dinner.
Are you kidding? I'll be down in a "Icrappedmypants."
What?
Coming.
What are you wearing?
I, uh... changed for dinner. I get dressed for all my meals. Except breakfast and bathmeal. Boy, it's hot in here. Mind if I open a window?
Okay.
Okay, what?
Why didn't you tell us your boyfriend was Principal Collins?
What? No! Look.
Hey look, it's our teacher.
Of course, she's in on it too. Don't let her see you. Just go get that chest and show the world what Collins has been doing. I'm staying here.
But I came here to learn about America.
Baby listen, there's nothing more American than not doing anything and getting away with it.
Then I'm in. Just like JerkOff.
Ting tao kuun jahn leeka leeka powww.
She's saying... a beautiful swan...
Sleeeeew sheek baw...
... flying gracefully... over the rice fields.
Kan maaaaw Roy Orbison kin nah mah oh che.
... to the tune of "Only the Lonely" by Roy Orbison.
I don't get it. Why'd you make him a pirate?
I'll tell you why!
CHING CHONG, What happened to your beautiful Asian accent?
Actually, my name is Cindy, the accent just helps me meet boys.
No, I'm not it.
Yeah, you are. He touched you. You're "it" until you touch someone else.
I have five kids at home, I know how it works. I'm just not "it". Okay guys? Two fifty.
You're it.
Guys. Give me the two fifty and go away.
Yeah, we're closed. So go away.
Actually we have something for you.
Oh my god, are you alright?
Yeah, I think.
The both of youse, shaddup.
Tell Pino.
Pop asked you.
I'm gonna kill somebody today.
How ya doin', Mookie?
Whaddup?
Both of youseshaddup. This is a place of business.
Tell 'em, Pop.
Take it easy, Pop.
Don't start on me today.
Pop, I'm gonna go with Mookie.
Good, make sure he don't jerk around.
Pino, get a broom and sweep out front.
Vito, get a broom and sweep out front.
Hey! Watch it.
I didn't want to come to work anyway. I hate this freakin' place.
Can you do better? C'mere.
Can you do better? I didn't think so. This is a respectable business. Nuthin' wrong with it. Get dat broom.
Tell Vito.
Pino, relax, will ya.
Here, take the broom. The front needs sweeping.
I should have Vito go with you all the time.
Yeah, no more ninetyminute deliveries around the corner.
C'mere. Don't get too friendly with da Mook.
That's gonna be the last time you hit Vito.
Sal's Famous Pizzeria, yeah, two large pizzas, pepperoni and anchovies, hold on... See, Pop, Mookie fucking talking on the phone and people are trying to call in orders. He's making us lose business.
Mookie, you're fucking up.
Twenty minutes. How come you niggers are so stupid?
Turn it off.
Mister Radio Raheem, I can't even hear myself think. You are disturbing me and you are disturbing my customers.
Pop, I think we should sell this place, get outta here while we're still ahead...and alive.
Since when do you know what's best for us?
Couldn't we sell this and open up a new one in our own neighborhood?
Too many pizzerias already there.
Then we could try something else.
We don't know nuthin' else.
I'm sick of niggers, it's a bad neighborhood. I don't like being around them, they're animals.
I didn't think so.
Pop, what else can I say? I don't wanna be here, they don't want us here. We should stay in our own neighborhood, stay in Bensonhurst.
So what if this is a Black neighborhood, so what if we're a minority. I've never had no trouble with dese people, don't want none either, so don't start none. This is America. Sal's Famous Pizzeria is here for good. You think you know it all? Well, you don't. I'm your father, you better remember that.
You're gonna be in the street with the rest of your homeboys.
'Bout time, Pop.
Pop, stop lying.
Shaddup! Jade, what can I fix you?
Vito! Pino! Let's go.
Be right there, Pop. Listen to what I said.
See, Pop. That's just what I was talkin' about. Every single time you tell Pino to do something, he gives it to me.
He's nuts.
Get the broom.
I ain't getting shit.
Me and you are gonna have a talk.
Sez who?
Sez me.
Fuck you and stay off the phone.
Forget it, Mookie.
Some are OK.
My friends laugh at me all the time, laugh right in my face, tell me go feed the Moulies.
I know this.
I love you.
I'm listening.
Good. I want you to listen.
Jesus Christ on the cross, I said I'm listening.
Good. Vito, you trust that Mook too much. So does Pop.
Mookie's OK.
You listening to me?
Stop busting my balls. I said I'm listening ten fucking times already.
Mookie is not to be trusted. No Moulan Yan can be trusted. The first time you turn your back, boom, a knife right here. In the back.
How do you know this?
I know.
You really think so?
I know so. He, them, they're not to be trusted.
So what do you want me to do?
Be on guard. Mookie has Pop conned already, so we have to look out for him.
I like Mookie a lot.
And that's exactly what I'm talkin' 'bout.
Whaddup. Money?
I was going to buy a slice.
I'll be back after I make this delivery.
On the rebound.
That's the dope.
I just copped them. Let me tell you the story of RightHandLeft Handthe tale of Good and Evil.
I'm listening.
HATE!
Brother, Mookie, if I love you I love you, but if I hate you...
I understand.
I love you, my brother.
I love you, Black.
Wait a minute. Wait a minute. I just got here. You sweep. I betcha Sal asked you first anyhow.
That's right.
Mister Seor Love Daddy is cool.
Ya like him, huh?
Yeah.
Y'know, Vito, I know Pino is ya brother and shit, but the next time he hits ya, the next time he touches ya, you should "house him." Kick his ass.
I don't know.
If you don't make a stand, he's gonna be beating ya like a egg for the rest of your life.
That's what you think?
That's what I think.
I don't like to fight.
I'll do that.
We're outta here.
Pino, I work hard like everybody in here.
He's right.
Pino, no joke. C'mon, answer.
It's Prince. He's a Prince freak.
Mookie, late again. How many times I gotta tell you?
Hello, Sal. Hello, Vito.
Just coolin'.
You're still late.
Shaddup, Vito.
Fuck dat shit. I deliver pizzas. That's what I get paid for.
You get paid to do what we say.
Pop, I don't believe this shit. We runnin' welfare or somethin'? Every day you give dat bum
Da Mayor ain't no bum.
Give dat bum a dollar for sweeping our sidewalk. What do we pay Mookie for? He don't even work. I work harder than him and I'm your own son.
Who don't work? Let's see you carry six large pies up six flights of stairs. No elevator either and shit.
You talk to 'em.
People are free to do what they wanna do.
Smack him back.
What?
Remember what I said.
You deaf or what?
Gotta go. See ya soon. Everybody happy now?
Who's your favorite basketball player?
Magic Johnson.
And not Larry Bird? Who's your favorite movie star?
Eddie Murphy.
Shut up. The Boss! Bruuucce!!!!
Sounds funny to me. As much as you say nigger this and nigger that, all your favorite people are "niggers."
Pino, I think secretly that you wish you were Black. That's what I think. Vito, what do you say?
Y'know, I've been listening and reading 'bout Farrakhan, ya didn't know that, did you?
I didn't know you could read.
Fuck you. Anyway, Minister Farrakhan always talks about the socalled "day" when the Black man will rise. "We will one day rule the earth as we did in our glorious past." You really believe that shit?
It's evitable.
Keep dreaming.
Fuck you, fuck pizza, and fuck Frank Sinatra, too.
Well, fuck you, too, and fuck Michael Jordan.
Dago, wop, garlicbreath, guinea, pizzaslinging, spaghettibending, Vic Damone, Perry Como, Luciano Pavarotti, Sole Mio, nonsinging motherfucker.
You goldteeth, goldchainwearing, friedchickenandbiscuiteatin', monkey, ape, baboon, big thigh, fastrunning, threehundredsixty degreebasketballdunking spade Moulan Yan.
I know I haven't seen you in four days. I'm a working man.
I work too, but I still make time.
Tina, what do you want me to do?
I want you to spend some time with me. I want you to try and make this relationship work. If not, I'd rather not be bothered.
Alright. Alright. I'll be over there sometime today.
When?
Before I get off work.
Bring some ice cream, I'm burning up. Do you love me?
Do I love you?
Delivery from Sal's Famous Pizzeria.
What took you so long? Is it hot?
Hot. Hot.
Come in then.
Tina, you are too slick.
How else was I going to get you here? I haven't seen you in a week.
I've been working hard, getting paid.
Where's the ice cream? The Hagen Dazs butter pecan?
Shit! I forgot.
Your memory is really getting bad.
I just forgot.
And I really wanted some ice cream too.
I can run out and get it.
No! No! You won't come back either.
I can't be staying long anyway.
How long then?
Long enough for us to do the nasty.
That's out. No! It's too hot! You think I'm gonna let you get some, put on your clothes, then run outta here and never see you again in who knows when?
A quickie is good every once in a blue moon.
You a bluemoon fool.
Then we'll do something else.
What else?
Trust me.
Trust you? Because of trusting you we have a son. Remember your son?
Trust me.
I'm gonna take off ya clothes.
Mookie, I told you already it's too fucking hot to make love.
Why you gotta curse?
I'm sorry, but no rawness is jumping off tonight.
No rawness.
Tina, you're sweating.
Of course I'm sweating. I'm burning up. It's hot, moron, only a hundred degrees in here.
Lie down, please.
It's cold.
It's 'pose to be cold.
Later for you.
Meda. Meda.
What?
Tina, you don't have a forehead, you got a eighthead.
Feels good.
Yes, yes, Lord. Isn't this better than HaagenDazs butter pecan ice cream?
Where are you going?
To get my money.
Mookie, you must think I'm stupid or something. You're gonna run outta here and I won't see your black ass for another week.
Tina, it's not like that.
You don't care about me and you definately don't care 'bout your son.
Tina, I'll be right back.
Be a man.
I am a man.
Act like one then. Be a man.
Later.
You're to the curb. You better step off. Get a life.
Hey! What did I say?
Who doesn't work? Don't start no shit, won't be no shit.
Mookie, no cursing in the store.
Talk to your son.
Mookie, if your friends can't behave, they're not welcome.
I got no say over people.
Mookie, what took you so long? I got a business to run.
Run it then.
Mookie, get offa da phone.
Be off in a second. Tina, I dedicated a record on Mister Seor Love Daddy's show to you.
Mookie! How is anybody gonna call in?
Big deal? If that's not LOVE, I don't know what is.
Sal, can you do me a favor?
Depends.
Can you pay me now?
Can't do.
Sal, just this once, do me that solid.
You know you don't get paid till we close tonight. We're still open.
I would like to get paid now.
Tonight, when we close.
Sal, I don't care if you fire me this exact minute, leave my sister alone.
Mookie, I don't know what you're talking about, plus I don't want to hear it.
Sal, just do me a favor, leave Jade alone.
Here, you gotta delivery.
Yeah, do you know 'em?
No, just checking.
Sal, if you want me to deliver any faster, get me a jet rocket or something, cuz I can't run with pizzas, all the cheese ends up on one side and shit.
I didn't say nuthin'. You must have a guilty conscience. What are you guilty of?
I'm not guilty of nuthin'.
You must be guilty of something or you would have never come in saying the things you said.
C'mon, Sal.
Where we goin'?
Whatdafuck do you want?
I wants my money. I wants to get paid.
Mookie, I always liked you. Not the smartest kid, but you're honest. Don't make me dislike you.
Sal, I want my money.
Don't even ask about your money. Your money wouldn't even pay for that window you smashed.
Motherfuck a window, Radio Raheem is dead.
You're right, a kid is dead, but Mook, this isn't the time.
Fuck dat. The time is fuckin' now. Y'know I'm sorry 'bout Sal's Famous Pizzeria, but I gotta live, too. I gotta get paid.
We both do.
We all know you're gonna get over with the insurance money anyway! Ya know da deal.
Do we now?
Quit bullshitting.
You don't know shit about shit.
How much? How much do I owe you?
My salary. Twofifty.
Ya just got paid, so leave me the fuck alone.
You only pay me twofifty a week. I owe you fifty bucks.
Keep it.
You keep it.
Christmas came early.
It's supposed to be even hotter today.
You gonna open up another Sal's Famous Pizzeria?
No. What are you gonna do?
Make dat money. Get paid.
Yeah!...I'm goin' to the beach for the first day in fifteen years. Gonna take the day off and go to the beach.
I can dig it. It's gonna be HOT as a motherfucker.
Mookie?
Gotta go.
C'mere, Doctor.
Doctor, this is Sal talkin'.
OK. OK.
Doctor, always try to do the right thing.
That's it?
Fool, you're thirty cents away from a quarter. How you gonna get a boat?
Don't worry about it.
You're raggedy as a roach. You eat the holes out of donuts.
I'll be back on my feet. Soon enough.
So when is all this ice suppose to melt?
Motherfucker wasn't saying shit.
Look at that.
It's a fucking shame.
What is?
Sweet Dick Willie.
That's my name.
Do I have to spell it out?
Let it be broke.
Can ya dig it?
It's dug.
Look at those Korean motherfuckers across the street. I betcha they haven't been a year off da motherfucking boat before they opened up their own place.
It's Miller time. Let me go give these Koreans s'more business.
It's a motherfucking shame.
ML?
What?
ML, hold this for me.
Why you gotta talk 'bout my moms?
Nobody talkin' 'bout ya moms.
I didn't say nobody, I said you.
Sweet Dick, I didn't mean it like that.
Yes you did.
ML stands for ML. That's it.
Naw, that's some stupid shit. Now you know how I got that name.
Negroes kill me, always holdin' onto, talkin' 'bout their dicks.
Korea man is OK. Let's leave him alone.
Him no white. Him no white.
C'mon, don't be shy. Mmm, smells good. This is ya Love Daddy talkin' to ya, starvin' like Marvin. Say something, Mookie.
Mister Seor Love Daddy, I'd like to dedicate the next record to my heart, Tina.
Alright. Let me play this record while I go to work on my chicken Parmigiana hero with extra cheese and extra sauce.
Here ya are. Keep the change.
That's right on time. This is my friend, Vito. His pops is Sal.
Tell ya father he makes the best heros in Brooklyn.
WAKE UP!
Fuck! My money!
Twenty "D" Duracells.
Twenty "C" Duracells.
D, not C.
C Duracell.
D! D! D! You dumb motherfucker. Learn how to speak English first. D.
How many you say?
Twenty! Motherfucker! Twenty!
Motherfucker you.
Jade, you're late.
I know, Mother Sister, but I'm here now. Where's the stuff?
This might take some time.
I got nowhere to go. We haven't had a good sitdown for a long while.
Tenderheaded runs in my family. You tenderheaded?
Yeah, me too.
That's why I don't fool with it. Only let you touch it...Ouch!
Sorry, comb got caught.
Be gentle, child. Mother Sister is an old woman.
How are you holding up in this weather?
I'll do.
I don't know why you still haven't bought an air conditioner.
Don't like 'em. A fan will do.
You are too cruel to Da Mayor, it isn't right.
I'm not studying no Mayor. Besides, he reminds me of my least favorite peoples. My tenants and my ex husbandGoddamnbless his soul.
Number One: I got some jive, late rentpaying trifling Negroes in this house. Every year I keep threatening to sell it.
And move to Long Island...
And move to Long Island. Number Two: my exhusband lost all my property, all my money in his scheme to build a Black business empire. Needless to say what happened, this house is it, all I got. I'm too through with yar people.
Whew!
Don't you have enough sense not to bother people when they're sleeping?
Wake up!
Wake up? Saturday is the lone day I get to sleep late.
It's gonna be hot today.
Good! Leave me alone when I'm sleeping. I'm gonna get a lock on my door, to keep ya ass outta here.
Don't ya love ya brother Mookie anymore? I loves ya, Jade.
Do me a favor. Go to work.
Later. Gotta get paid.
Jade.
I'm in here.
How come you're not at Sal's?
I'm working.
Is this another one of your patented twohour lunches?
I just come home to take a quick shower.
Sal's gonna be mad.
Later for Sal. Y'know, sometimes I think you're more concerned with him than me.
I think no such a thing. Sal pays you, you should work.
Slavery days are over. My name ain't Kunta Kinte. Sis, I don't want to argue, stop pressing me.
I just don't want you to lose the one job you've been able to keep, that's all. I'm carrying you as it is.
Don't worry 'bout me. I always get paid.
Yeah, then ya should take better care of your responsibilities.
What responsibilities?
I didn't stutter. Take care of your responsibilities. Y'know exactly what I'm talking about.
Hurry up and get dressed.
I'm coming.
I'm going with you.
No.
Yo, I'm gone.
I'll see ya there.
I'll see you out.
See ya around.
Jade, I don't want you coming in here no mo'.
Stop tripping.
No, you're tripping. Don't come in Sal's. Alright, read my lips.
What are you so worked up about?
Over Sal, the way he talks and the way he looks at you.
He's just being nice.
Nice!
He's completely innocent.
Innocent!
I didn't stutter. You heard me.
You should see the way he looks at you. All Sal wants to do is hide the salami.
You are too crude.
I might be, but you're not welcome here.
Stop trying to play big brother. I'm a grown woman. You gotta lotta nerve. Mookie, you can hardly pay your rent and you're gonna tell me what to do. Come off it.
One has nuthin' to do with the other.
Oh, it doesn't, huh! You got your little 250 dollars a week plus tips...
I'm getting paid...
...peanuts.
Pretty soon I'll be making a move.
I truly hope so. I'm tired of supporting a grown man.
Eddie Lovell.
How old are you?
Ten.
What makes Sammy run?
My name is Eddie.
What makes Sammy run?
I said my name is Eddie Lovell.
Relax, Eddie, I want you to go to the corner store. How much will it cost me?
How would I know how much it's gonna cost if I don't know what I'm buying?
Eddie, you're too smart for your own britches. Listen to me. How much do you want to run to the store for Da Mayor?
Fifty cents.
You got a deal.
Mookie.
Gotta go.
C'mere, Doctor.
Doctor, this is Da Mayor talkin'.
OK. OK.
Doctor, always try to do the right thing.
That's it?
That's it.
The evil eye doesn't work on me.
Mother Sister, you've been talkin' 'bout me the last eighteen years. What have I ever done to you?
You're a drunk fool.
Besides that. Da Mayor don't bother nobody. Nobody don't bother Da Mayor but you. Da Mayor just mind his business. I love everybody. I even love you.
Hold your tongue. You don't have that much love.
One day you'll be nice to me. We might both be dead and buried, but you'll be nice. At least civil.
I didn't know you had such beautiful hair.
Fool, there's a lot in this world you don't know.
I'm not stopping. I'm on my way.
That was a foolish act, but it was brave. That chile owes you his life.
I wasn't trying to be a hero. I saw what was about to happen and I reacted, didn't even think. If I did, I might not have done it in second thought. Da Mayor is an old man, haven't run that fast in years.
I went from first to home on a bunt single, scored the winning run, the bottom of the ninth, two out, August 1, 1939, Snow Hill, Alabama. Maybe I should be heroic more often.
Maybe you shouldn't. Don't get happy. This changes nothing between you and me. You did a good thing and Mother Sister wanted to thank you for it.
I thank you.
You're welcome.
Good morning.
Is it a good morning?
Yes indeed. You almost got yourself killed last night.
I've done that before.
Where did you sleep?
I didn't.
I hope the block is still standing.
We're still standing.
You a dumbass simple motherfucker. Where did you read that?
Don't worry about it. But when it happens and I'm in my boat and ya black ass is drowning, don't ask me to throw you a lifesaver either.
As I was saying before we were so rudely interrupted by the finest.
What was you saying?
Make it plain.
OK, but listen up. I'm gonna break it down.
It's been about a year.
A motherfucking year off the motherfucking boat and got a good business in our neighborhood occupying a building that had been boarded up for longer than I care to remember and I've been here a long time.
How long?
Too long! Too long. Now for the life of me, I haven't been able to figger this out. Either dem Koreans are geniuses or we Blacks are dumb.
No!
No!
What can you say?
I don't know how he does it.
Squash it.
I just wanted to know who named ya Sweet Dick Willie?
Mookie.
What?
How come you ain't got no brothers up?
Ask Sal.
Sal, how come you ain't got no brothers up on the wall here?
Buggin' Out, I gotta work here.
I'm cool. I'm cool.
Come back in a week, it will be squashed.
You the man.
You the man.
No, you the man.
No. I'm just a struggling Black man trying to keep my dick hard in a cruel and harsh world.
It's so nice to see a family hanging out together.
We're not hanging out. I'm being escorted back to work.
How much?
You come in here at least three times a day. You a retard? A buck fifty.
Damn, Sal, put some more cheese on that motherfucker.
Extra cheese is two dollars. Y'know dat.
Two dollars! Forget it!
Sal, that might be fine, you own this, but rarely do I see any Italian Americans eating in here. All I've ever seen is Black folks. So since we spend much money here, we do have some say.
You a troublemaker?
Don't come back, either.
Boycott Sal's. Boycott Sal's.
What did I tell ya 'bout dat noise?
What did I tell ya 'bout dem pictures?
What da fuck! Are you deaf?
No, are you? We want some Black people up on the Wall of Fame.
Turn that JUNGLE MUSIC off. We ain't in Africa.
Why it gotta be about jungle music and Africa?
It's about turning that shit off and getting the fuck outta my pizzeria.
That's not even true. I just want a slice.
Jade, you don't know this, but I'm organizing a boycott of Sal's Famous Pizzeria.
What did he do this time?
Y'know all those pictures he has hanging on the Wall of Fame?
So?
Have you noticed something about them?
Every single one of those pictures is somebody Italian.
And?
And Iwewant some Black people up.
Did you ask Sal?
Yeah, I asked him. I don't want nobody in there, nobody spending good money in Sal's. He should get no mo' money from the community till he puts some Black faces up on that motherfucking wall.
Buggin' Out, I don't mean to be disrespectful, but you can really direct your energies in a more useful way.
So, in other words, you are not down.
I'm down, but for a worthwhile cause.
Jade, I still love you.
Yo!
Yes?
You almost knocked me down. The word is "excuse me."
Excuse me. I'm very sorry.
Not only did you knock me down, you stepped on my new white Air Jordans that I just bought and that's all you can say, "Excuse me?"
I'll fuck you up quick two times.
Who told you to step on my sneakers? Who told you to walk on my side of the block? Who told you to be in my neighborhood?
I own a brownstone on this block.
Who told you to buy a brownstone on my block, in my neighborhood on my side of the street?
What do you want to live in a Black neighborhood for? Motherfuck gentrification.
I'm under the assumption that this is a free country and one can live where he pleases.
I'm gonna leave now.
If I wasn't a righteous Black man you'd be in serious trouble. SERIOUS.
How you be?
I be. I'm living large.
Is that the only tape you got?
You don't like Public Enemy? It's the dope shit.
I like 'em, but you don't play anything else.
I don't like anything else.
Check this out. Y'know Sal's.
Yeah, I know dat motherfucker.
I'm trying to organize a boycott of Sal's pizza joint. Ya see what I'm saying?
I almost had to yoke him this afternoon. Tell me, tell me, Radio Raheem, to turn my music down. Didn't even say please. Who the fuck he think he is? Don Corleone and shit.
He makes all his money off us Black people and I don't see nuthin' but Italians all up in there, Sylvester Stallone and motherfuckers. Ya see what I'm saying, homeboy?
Talk to me.
We shouldn't buy a single slice, spend a single penny in that motherfucker till some people of color are put up in there.
That's what I'm talkin' 'bout. That's what I'm talkin' 'bout.
You got my back.
Ya back is got.
My brother.
My brother.
You were good.
Real good.
Ain't nobody gonna call me a bitch without some payback.
Nobody.
<i>Gotta strip/ Gotta give some lip/ Gotta make my tip/ But keep yo hands to yourself  Cuz you ain't touching these tits.</i>
<i>House is a wreck/ Gotta collect my check/ Gotta perfume my neck/ But keep yo hands off the weave cuz this black bitch don't suck the dick.</i>
Just like Billy Ocean says. <i>When the going gets tough...</i>
<i>The tough get going.</i>
Meeka's white blood cell count is dropping fast.
Real fast.
Get Cynthia on the line. <i>They changed the fucking font.</i>
Okay. Domino Harvey is here.
Send her through to the conference room. <b> INT. FOX TELEVISION STUDIOS  LOBBY  NEXT
This could break new ground in terms of traditional host models. It's selfreflexive reality television.
Your theory is valid... <i>in theory.</i>
We can't lose focus of Domino's journey, Mark.
We're covered on legal with that, right?
In theory.
Fast and or furious.
But real. This is gritty. Like Cassavetes.
Exactly. Why don't you leave the guns behind this time? Go in with only batons, brass knuckles, and numbchucks.
This girl is going to be a star. She just tells it like it is.
We should sign her to a talent holding deal. <b> INT. KEG HOUSE  FRANCES' ROOM  NEXT
Where is Domino?
She went up to her room.
We're late.
Fucking Map Quest. <i>Never again.</i> <b> EXT. DOWNTOWN GARAGE ROOFTOP  NEXT </b> Ziering and Green approach a LARGE TENT. The WINNEBAGO is parked off to the side. Alf is inside... doing something with a WELDER on the front of the RV.
They need to get the introduction on camera. Just play along, alright?
They're gonna edit it together out of sequence so it's more exciting. <b> EXT. BEVERLY HILLS  LATER ON
Listen, dickfuck. I had a good run while it lasted. Now I've got ten million in the bank. <i>I'll never have to work again for the rest of my life.</i>
And he used to fuck a Playboy centerfold every night.
Twice a night, sometimes.
We didn't sign on for this shit. Fuck! This shit is intense. I need to call my agent.
Just shut up and do what they say. They're gonna kill us if we don't, Ian.
Uhhh... I have no idea what you just said.
SPEAK ENGLISH! JESUS CHRIST WE'RE ON TELEVISION HERE!
Three tours? Isn't that... <i>twelve years?</i>
Son, with the exception of Spring Break in Tijuana, have you ever ventured outside of California?
Many times.
Do you know where Danang is?
Not really.
...THEN SHUT THE FUCK UP!
Don't fuck with us, Edna! There are at least three more limbs where that one came from!
I can certainly think of one more!
<i>My real father was an actor. He died when I was a little girl.</i>
Wow. Laurence Harvey. He knew Frank Sinatra? I knew Frank.
What the... <i>who is this bitch?</i> <b> EXT. HAWTHORNE COMMUNITY CENTER  PARKING LOT  NEXT </b> Ed and Choco exit the El Camino just as Domino retrieves her knife from the windshield. She grips it in her right hand... threatening them.
Where the fuck do you think you're going?
You want to be a bounty hunter. Why does a pretty little thing like you want to be a bounty hunter?
Because I want justice. I want to help put these sleazebags back in jail where they belong. And I want to have a little fun.
You can save that Pretty Woman shit. The name is Domino.
Domino. Do you have a last name... Domino?
No last names. Just Domino. The less you know about me the better, okay?
So Ed. What did you do before you became a bounty hunter?
I was a musician.
Really? Did you play in a band?
Yeah. I played base guitar for Pat Benatar.
I... <i>love...</i> Pat Benatar.
Yeah?! Well... I loved her too.
Oh my God... you mean... the two of you dated?!
We dated off and on for two years. But life on the road is tough. The pressure of the tour... relationships within a band... sometimes it leads to jealousy.
How did you meet Choco?
I found him panhandling on Third Street Promenade. Took him under my wing. We been hunting together ever since.
What the fuck is your problem? Bitch!! <b> INT. SOPHIE TROMAS MANSION  KITCHEN  DAY </b> Domino is loading her GUN at the kitchen table as Sophie serves breakfast. Domino wolfs it down.
<i>Mum was terrified for me. She didn't approve of my lifestyle one bit.</i>
<i>I was asleep in mum's guest house.</i> <b> INT. SOPHIE THOMAS MANSION  BEDROOM  NEXT </b> Domino is asleep in bed. The TELEPHONE rings.
Hello?
<i>We gotta go to work, Domino.</i>
Can you tell?
You're wearing eyeliner. You look like a queen.
Cool it, Choco.
YOU'RE UNDER ARREST.
Everyone... please give Domino her space. Step back, please!
You have sixty seconds... here's the question... Which one of you is Frances?
Where are the bond certificates for the First Ladies?
There are no bond certificates.
What do you mean? Claremont didn't provide them?
No. What's the big deal?
Something is going down. Something bad.
Claremont said we deliver the First Ladies in Needles. Then we go home. No questions asked.
What did he say about the arm?
He said... take his right arm.
Make us a pot of coffee, Edna. It's gonna be a long night. <b> EXT. FENDER COMPOUND  MOMENTS LATER </b> Edna stands next to her MAIMED SON near the burning barrels as they watch the Winnebago drive off into the desert. Locus is sobbing... latching onto his mother's sweater.
<i>Turned out Edna. had one last trick up her sleeve.</i> <b> INT. FENDER COMPOUND  KITCHEN  [FLASHBACK] TEN MINUTES AGO
We are so fucked.
Then so be it. If you believe what that Indian said we were fucked either way.
<i>After dad passed on, Mum's agenda was to hit the town and find another husband with a boatload of cash.</i> <b> INT. LONDON APARTMENT  EVENING </b> Sophie is dolled up for a night on the town... CLEAVAGE spilling out of her cocktail dress. Domino is feeding her pet GOLDFISH. "THUNDERBIRDS" plays on the television.
Be kind to your sitter.
Everything. It is a ghastly existence.
Why must you fight... everything that is normal? You are blessed with such beauty. Life could be so easy... if only you allowed yourself to fit the mold.
The mold? I am living among these cryptofascist Orange County cunts... with daddy's BMW and the boob job... just waiting to implode.
Cryptofascist? Who talks like this?!
I refuse to turn out like them. Twentyone years old and they're already looking for a husband. Stupid fucking cunts with no self esteem. They let the boys control their lives. Not me.
Must you use that awful word?
Cunt.
Stop it.
Cunt.
I said stop it.
Cunt. It's just a word. Why does everyone in this fucking country get their knickers in a twist by the slightest bit of indecent conversation?
So who is this <i>Choko?</i> Is he your new boyfriend?
It's Choco. And he's not my boyfriend. He's a bounty hunter.
<i>Whatever.</i> He's a criminal. And this Ed Martin character is a complete loser.
He used to date Pat Benatar!
God help us. God help us all.
<i>It was the beginning of the end.</i>
<i>That's my best friend. His name is Choco. He's always fancied me... but too shy to ever do anything about it.</i>
ChiChi! CHICHI!
ChiChi has gone to doggie heaven, bitch!
Is that you, Domino?
Nice to see you again, Edna.
HE'S STILL ALIVE, EDNA!
PROVE IT!
LOCUS! BABY... I'M HERE!
Turn over your weapon, Edna!
Is that the decoder?
Yeah. <b> INT. FENDER HOUSE  MOMENTS LATER </b>
<i>Either this was some kind of set up... or the First Ladies got scared... decided to pull out and cut their losses.</i>
Fuck 'em. Their loss is our gain. Put the money in the safe until we hear from Claremont. <b>
Cockfuckers are gonna pay.
<i>Mescaline.</i> <b> INT. CAST WINNEBAGO  NIGHT </b> Domino and the others are all drinking coffee. Alf stares out through the windshield at the GLOW of Vegas in the distance.
Ms. Harvey... my name is Taryn Miles. I'm a criminal psychologist working for the FBI. I'm here to ask you a few questions.
<i>Here's the part where I'm supposed to get all defensive and say... 'not until I speak with my attorney.'</i>
<i>The driver's name was Locus Fender. We know that he was in on the heist.</i> <b> INT. ARMORED CAR  NEXT </b> LOCUS FENDER is behind the wheel of the armored car. His unshaven, disheveled appearance looks totally out of place in his security uniform. <b> INT. VEGAS SECURITY LOCKDOWN  NIGHT </b> Taryn is now scrawling notes on a pad.
Where is the money?
I don't know.
I think that you're lying. I think you know exactly where the money is.
You're trying to scare me into falsely incriminating myself... and it's not working. I said I'd tell you everything I know. You and your friends behind the mirror.
Is it true that you were hired to track down and capture the thieves... and then deliver them to Drake Bishop... owner of the Stratosphere Hotel & Casino?
Yes.
You then learned where the thieves had hidden the money... and at the instructions of your employer went to retrieve it yourself.
He sent us out to the Fender Compound. Out in the desert near the Chicken Ranch.
He's a reality television producer. His name is Mark Weiss.
Mr. Weiss was very generous in turning over some video tapes to the FBI. There's lots of footage of you. We know everything. If you don't come clean... the information on these tapes could send you to prison for a very long time.
Are you aware that Lateesha Rodriguez has been running a counterfeit driver's license racket?
That's the rumor on the street.
What was your business with Lateesha that day?
We needed to verify some bond certificates for Claremont. She pushes stuff through the system for us... helps us track down perps for a kick back. It's all legal. <b> INT. MUSTANG CONVERTIBLE  [FLASHBACK] DAY </b>
<i>You drove Lateesha's daughter to school... then dropped her off at the DMV. Why?</i>
<i>Her car was in the shop.</i>
<i>The bitch was bluffing. There were no dupe tapes. If there were... they'd have shown them to me by now.</i>
Show me the tapes. I want to see them.
Not yet. <b> INT. CAST WINNEBAGO  NEXT </b> Alf pulls onto the 15 FREEWAY.
Take us to Vegas.
<i>Now the bitch was getting personal.</i>
That's the only way you can cope with the route your life has taken. The fact that you made the choice to pursue this life style... much to the chagrin of your mother... who is so clearly ashamed of you. Imagine her shame when we cart you off to prison because you won't just tell the truth about what really happened. <b> EXT. NEVADA DESERT  DAY FOR NIGHT [MESCALINE TRIP]
Take us to Vegas. <b> EXT. DESERT ROAD  DAY </b> The crew rides in the back of the Wanderer's truck toward Vegas. <b> INT. VEGAS SECURITY LOCKDOWN  NIGHT </b> Domino stares at Taryn as she returns to the table.
This is your last chance. Tell us everything you know.
Do you want know the real reason why I became a bounty hunter?
No. Please enlighten me.
I became a bounty hunter because of cunts like you. I remember all the cunts in high school who were mean to me. Eventually... they all grew up to be just like you. Angry and bitter because they peaked early... and now they're stuck in some dead end marriage... or worse yet... an unfulfilling job that keeps them from meeting a man.
Claremont, you're a chubby chaser.
You white folks don't understand the natural beauty of a woman's figure. Those are birthing hips. More cushion for the pushin'.
<i>Did you get all four?</i>
Yep.
<i>Deliver them to the Needles DMV. Sundown at the Sam Kinison monument.</i>
We need hostages. Celebrity hostages. Just in case this gets ugly. <b> EXT. NEVADA DESERT  LATER ON </b> The Cast Winnebago drives through the desert.
<i>The combination code is tattooed on his right arm. You'll never get inside Edna Fender's safe without the codebreaker on that arm.</i> <b> INT. CAST WINNEBAGO  NEXT </b> Domino rides shotgun with her CELL PHONE to her ear.
Hello?
<i>The money exchange will take place at Top of the World at the Stratosphere. Get there at exactly midnight.</i>
She's right... you lost your temper... and you started cursing like some ghetto skank. You lost all credibility right there!
That bitch called me a bitch.
I've already formulated a plan.
What?
My armored car business. We just signed a new insurance policy in Nevada. There's a loophole.
There's always a loophole with you, Claremont. Your black ass is one big loophole. <b> INT. VEGAS SECURITY LOCKDOWN  [FLASH FORWARD] NIGHT
Where are you? <b> INT. CHEVY SUBURBAN  NEXT </b> Claremont is behind the Wheel of a BLACK CHEVY SUBURBAN. He pulls into the Texaco parking lot.
I'm pulling up right now. Evacuate the fucking van! Plans have changed! <b> EXT. TEXACO STATION  NEXT
You motherfuckin' Tino. You fucked us so bad.
I fucked up. You can't help your greedy black lying ass from trying to get everything. All you've done is put a death sentence on Meeka.
Why the hell are we delivering them out here? I can't even find any warrants in the system for these four.
<i>The system hasn't been updated.</i>
<i>The FBI was breathing down Lateesha's neck... and she assumed that they were onto our scam. So she set up some college kids to take the fall for the heist. They have been under FBI surveillance for the past 6 months.</i> <b> INT. CHEVY SUBURBAN </b> Claremont drives like a maniac.
<i>What happened to them?</i>
I don't know. They might be dead already.
You're breaking up... I can't hear you.
<i>Remove... ... the... right arm.</i>
What!!?
Okay.
<i>I won't forget this, Domino. I'm sorry it turned out like this...</i>
Hello?
<i>Mr. Cigliuti?</i>
Yes.
<i>I'm calling from the Kappa Epsilon Gamma house at California University.</i>
Yes. <b> INT. KEG HOUSE  CHAPTER ROOM  NEXT </b>
I'm so sorry to be bothering you in the middle of the night like this... but it's a bit of an emergency.
<i>What is it?</i>
Your son... and your nephew have been kidnapped by these crazy game show hosts from the Fox network. <b> INT. CIGLIUTI COMPOUND  MASTER BEDROOM  NEXT </b> Cigliuti sits up in bed.
My Frances? Frances and Charles have been kidnapped? <b> EXT. NEVADA DESERT  NEXT </b>
Alright. Time to ditch this thing. Did you take a look at the bathroom window?
<i>I forgot.</i>
For the love of God. Not Spanish again. Who's the girl?
Where are we going?
On a raid. If she wants to see justice... we gonna take Domino to the Jungle, baby. <b> EXT. JUNGLE  NEXT </b> The El Camino pulls into the entrance to the JUNGLE. The neighborhood of LOW INCOME HOUSES winds upward into the HILLSIDE adjacent to the wall. Ed parks the El Camino next to the curb. <b> INT. EL CAMINO  NEXT
Bail jumper's name is Cookie Kincaid. Nineteen years old. His mommie posted bail when he was arrested for allegedly partaking in a driveby shooting in Hawthorne.
<i>He killed two children.</i>
Fella takes out two kids and has the audacity to not show up for trial.
<i>We gotta bring him in.</i>
Will you speak the fucking English language? The poor girl has no clue what you're talking about. The boy speaks English, you know. Reads, writes, I swear it. He does this when he's around girls. Thinks it's cute.
<i>I'm gonna kill you, Ed.</i>
Tell him it's not cute. Will you tell him, Domino!?
<i>Chinga te y tu mama tambien.</i>
Jesus Christ! What's that smell?
<i>The children like to urinate in the balls.</i>
Fuckin' A! We got a five hour drive back to LA ahead of us. <b> EXT. MACDONALD'S  PARKING LOT  MOMENTS LATER </b> Choco is now stripped down to his boxer shorts in the back PARKING LOT of the MacDonald's. Alf is hosing him down. Domino stares at Choco... admiring his body.
Fella could get used to a life this ordinary.
Maybe you should fuck her mom then.
So what?
You know what I'm talking about, did you fuck her?
I just charged $12.95 to our room for that movie. Now I'll never know how the story ends.
Don't fuck with me, Ed. Not you, not tonight.
Oh! And another thing. I am a liar. A pathological liar. There was no day in Danang, no multiple tours in Nam. Just lies to get laid, lies to get respect. Truth is... I'm scared shitless all the time.
What about your toe?
Anything to get the fuck out of dodge.
Did it hurt?
What do you think, dumbshit?
Promise me... you won't ever tell Domino.
What?
<i>Promise me... you won't tell her... that I never fucked Pat Benatar.</i>
<i>Holy shit... this bitch is fierce.</i>
I've been training since I was twelve. Knives. Guns. Throwing stars. You name it... I can fight with it. I'm a hard worker and a fast learner. Nothing scares me. I'm not afraid to die.
Morning.
<i>Morning.</i>
<i>They can do subtitles.</i>
<i>Choco grew up on the streets of El Salvador. When he was four years old... he stabbed another kid in the eyeball with a pencil.</i> <i>There were wires crossed somewhere in his soul.</i>
Who the hell is that?
<i>That's the crew. They follow us.</i>
What is it, Choco?
<i>Are you all right?</i>
I LOVE YOU, DOMINO.
<i>I once vowed never to invest too much emotion into anyone, anything.</i>
This is Drake Bishop.
<i>Mr. Bishop... this is Claremont Williams. I own the Williams Brothers armored car service.</i>
What happened to my money, Mr. Williams? <b> INT. CLAREMONT WILLIAMS III BOND AGENCY  NEXT </b> Claremont sits behind his desk with his phone to his ear.
Yesterday I received an email from a source. In this email were four social security numbers linked to the gentlemen who presented counterfeit California driver's licenses to my company late last night.
<i>Well... I think that these are the gentlemen who robbed us. I'm also a bail bondsman out of Los Angeles. I can track down and deliver these crooks to you... for a small finder's fee of course.</i>
How much?
<i>$300,000.</i>
And if you can't deliver them?
<i>My theft insurance policy will have to fork over the ten million... but that will take six to eight months due to Nevada state law.</i> <i>But you should know sir... that I employ bounty hunters. My bounty hunters can find these thieves.</i>
This is Bishop.
<i>The Bounty Hunters have arrived. They will drop off the money in exactly one hour.</i> <i>Where do you want to meet?</i>
Top of the World at the Stratosphere. It's completely secure. <b> INT. FBI JET  NEXT </b> Cosgrove and Espinoza listen to this conversation.
Why are you doing this?
Doing what?
Robbing a bank.
I don't know ... It's where they got the money. I mean, if you want to steal, you go to where they got the money, right?
But I mean, why do you need to steal? Couldn't you get a job?
Get a job doing what? You gotta be a member of a union, no union card  no job. To join the union, you gotta get the job, but you don't get the job without the card.
What about, ah, nonunion occupations?
Like what? Bank teller? What do they get paid  ... they pay one hundred thirty five dollars and thirtyseven cents to start. I got a wife and kids. I can't live on that  You want to live on that? What do you make a week?
I'm here to talk to you, Sonny, not ...
Wait a minute ... I'm talkin' to you. I'm askin' you a question ...
The audience is interested in you, Sonny ... not me.
Yeah! We're hot entertainment, right? You got me and Sal on TV ... we're entertainment you sell, right?
You're news, Sonny ...
How much you have to pay an entertainer to fill this slot?
Newsman, not ...
Okay, newsman. How much you make a week? You're not talkin'. You payin' me? What have you got for me? We're givin' you entertainment ... what are you givin' us?
What do you want us to give you? You want to be paid for ...
I don't want to be paid. I'm here with Sal and eight other people ... and we're dyin'! They're gonna blow our guts out, man! You're gonna see our brains onna sidewalk! How's that for all you shutins and housewives to look at! You gonna help, or you just put it on instead of AS THE WORLD TURNS? We're dyin' here! What have you got for me?
You could give up.
Oh yeah? Give up? You ever been in prison?
Of course not ...
Then talk about somethin' you fuckin' know about ...
What do you want here, Ma? You could of watched it on TV.
My God, Sonny  you oughtta see  Alla Brooklyn is here! On all 3 networks!
Mom  I got it all worked out; it's over. The best thing is you go home. Watch it on TV.
I talked to the FBI, I told them about you, they said if you just come outta the bank it's gonna be okay.
You did what? Who did you talk to? What for?
Well, I'm only trying to get you outta this. I told them you were in Vietnam, you always had good jobs, you were with Goldwater at the '64 convention, but you had marital problems...
Oh my God, mother!
I said you were never a faggot.
Don't talk to them anymore. Sal and me are getting a jet, we're going to Algeria  I'll write you from there.
He was very understanding  you ought to talk to him ... Algeria?
We can't stay here.
Oh my God! I don't understand. If you needed money, why couldn't you come to me? Everything I got is yours. I got two hundred and maybe twentyfive in the savings. It's yours. You know it.
Mom  they're sending a bus to take us to the airport. You understand? If you're here  they're not gonna send it. They'll think I'm gonna come out with you.
What's wrong with that? The FBI was very understanding when I explained it to him. Everybody knows it isn't you ... It's the pressures from your home life.
For God's sake don't start in on Heidi again ...
Did I say a thing against her? God forbid I should say anything against that fat cunt.
Mom. Mom. There are some things a mother shouldn't say in front of her son.
If she comes down here, so help me I'm gonna mash her brains in. Everything in your life was sunlight and roses until you met her. Since then, forget it.
She doesn't have anything to do with it! You understand that? Mother? This is me!
I know you wouldn't need Leon if Heidi was treating you right. The thing I don't understand is why you come out and sleep with Heidi anyway? You got two kids on welfare now. What're you goin' to bed with her, you don't have enough with one wife and two kids on welfare, you want a wife and three kids on welfare?
Not now, Mom, please.
What'll you do? Come out.
I can't, Mom. If I come out Sal will kill them.
Oh. Run.
What the hell for? Twentyfive years in the pen?
Maybe...
Maybe! Aw Christ, what dreams you live on! Maybe what?
I'm a fuckup and an outcast. There isn't one single person in my life I haven't hurt through my love. You understand that? I'm the most dangerous person in the world, because if I love you, watch out, you're gonna get fucked, fucked over and fucked out!
No!
Did Pop come down?
No. This really pissed him off, Sonny. He says you're dead. He says he doesn't have a son.
He's right. You shoulda done what he did. Go home. Don't talk to the FBI anymore.
Okay, who's the head teller here?
I am.
Open this up!
Listen, we got young girls here... you could watch your language.
I speak what I feel.
Listen, I'll never make it. I'll have to go to the toilet.
What's the matter... they never housebroke you?
It's not a joke. I got this terrible fear of being locked in...
Oh  Maria!
Who the hell is that? God damn it! What the...
What are you trying to pull?
I forgot she's in here.
Come on, nobody's going to the bathroom  come on...
Oh, shit! I gotta have time to think.
What is it? Did you just barge in here... He doesn't have plan. It's all a whim. 'Rob a bank! What not?'
... Just give me time to think...
Hey, you okay?
He's got diabetes. He's not a well person.
Those bastards  they poisoned the pizza! Sal  you didn't eat any pizza!?
My kids ... Kimmy and Jimmy.
They're beautiful ...
Hey, let's get ready!
Sonny  Here's your document.
Here's your document, Sonny.
Yeah  it looks real official.
Fuck! We did it!
Goodbye, honey. Wish us luck!
First off, get the lights back on and the air conditioning.
No more favors. That's all over, Sonny.
Aw, Jesus ... you been doin' us favors all night!
I've got a jet. I'll have airport limousine here in a half hour. I want the hostages.
Bullshit!
I'd like to work with you on this, not against you.
Well, Jesus, these hostages are keeping me alive.
Okay, when do I get them?
At the airport. We get on the plane, check it out, and if it's all okay we'll send them out. Except one.
I want them all.
I want to talk to Leon.
I want to come in, and see if everybody's okay.
You got guts. You think if Sal and me have cut their throats we're gonna let you out?
I have to see.
Jesus, you'd like to kill me, too.
I wouldn't like to, but I will, if I have to.
Nothin' personal, huh? The man that kills me, I want him to do it because he hates my guts. Not because it's a job. Okay, let's go ... but you gotta walk in backwards.
Nobody give their right name ... it's the FBI!
I just want to see all you young ladies are all all right in here.
Wait a minute! What the fuck you tryin' to tell me?
What I said. You just sit quiet and we'll handle Sal.
What's wrong?
The manager, he's diabetic, he's lookin' bad.
Sonny! Could you come out, please? Could you come out, please?
It's my mother. Who needs this shit?
I don't want him.
What can he do, he's clean...
Gimme the black guy...
I can't allow that, Sonny...
You can't allow! I'm running this thing, what gives you the idea you can say shit? Come on. I'll pay you. Whatta you want? Two hundred? A thousand?
Okay  you got your one.
You follow my car.
That's the jet. You give us one more, now. That's the deal...
Okay. Which one goes?
I ain't eaten all day. I just realized it.
We'll have hamburgers on the plane. You ready?
Hey, for christ's sake... now... fuckin' asshole... He can't make it.
Fuck him  let him out!
Ah, Jesus...
Let's go, Sonny.
What are you crying for? Jesus Christ. It's not your fault there's no money...
He's gone?
Yeah  it's all right... let's go.
Where's the money?
Get 'em in the vault!
Goddamn women...
Ah shit. Okay... go ahead. Anybody else have to go?
It's the cops. Shit!
How'd that happen?
You mean that?
What?
... The bodies out the door.
I want him to think that.
But do you mean it?
Sal, I'm sorry about this. But we can get outta this thing. There's a way outta this.
Are you serious? About throwin' a body outta here if we have to?
Well, I stalled him for a while. When it comes the time, then we'll work it out. Okay?
But do you mean in? ... But you just told him that if worse comes to worse...
I want him to think that.
But I want to know what you think.
We won't have to.
I'll tell you right now  that I'm ready to do it.
He wants one.
Dead or alive?
Alive.
To show that we're negotiating.
All right ... send them the guard.
All right ... let's go.
Okay, Sal ... what do we do?
SAL +++$+++
I figure maybe we can get the FBI to make a deal ...
What kind of a deal?
Maybe we can get outta this thing alive ... get 'em to drop the kidnapping charges ...
What do you mean? You talkin' about coppin a plea?
SONNY +++$+++
... because if you're talking about coppin' a plea, I'm tellin' you right now, there's no deal ... I'm never going back to prison ... We got our own deal already ... Do you remember the pact we made? You and me and Jackie  that night in the bar ... we were talkin' about if we get trapped in the bank, what are you gonna do ... Right? What did we say? What did we say!
We'd kill ourselves.
Does that still go?
We're not there yet.
You realize, Sal, that we're gonna get outta the country, so if you wanna talk to somebody, do it now ... You gotta Mother or a Father? Friends? If we gotta be outside the country, where do you wanna go? Any country. Just name a country.
Wyoming.
Wyoming ... That's not out of the country  that's in the United States ... Look, I'll be back.
Sonny 
Yeah ...
I never been up in a plane before.
It's nothing  it just goes up  it's the safest thing in the world. Safer than a car. Don't worry about it, Sal  it'll be all right ... they're great ...
They're trying to come through the door!
Everybody! Back here!
Okay ... okay ... all right, Sal, it's okay. I got everything straightened out ... it's gonna be okay.
Get over there!
Look, I talked to him and it's not going to be a helicopter  they can't land on top of the roof  so they're comin' with a big ... limousine bus and they'll take us to the airport  and they're gonna get a jet ... so things are rollin' ... they're movin' ... I also ordered some food ... I got some pizzas for us, all right? I got some things to drink  I got sodas ... I even asked them for aspirins ... I'm doin' what I can ... now I gotta pay for the pizza ... where are the marked bills?
What?
They keep sayin' two homosexuals. I'm not a homosexual. I want you to stop them saying that.
That's all they're interested in  it's a freak show to them. I can't control it, Sal  let'em say what they want. Forget it. It don't matter.
It's the FBI. He wants to come in.
Have him walk in backwards.
Sal?
They gotta stop sayin' that.
What'd he say?
He was talkin' about arrangements ... we were talkin' about the TV.
Why couldn't he talk about that here?
He was showin' me how the airport bus is comin' in, like that, Sal. What's wrong with him?
Hey, Sal ... How you doin'?
Okay.
Just give me a receipt. Hey, Sal, you okay?
Okay, Sonny.
All right.
There it is, Sal. Sal?
I'm here.
Oh, Jesus! Hey. How about food? I forgot to ask to have food on board.
Hey, Sonny  You did it!
Let's move it, goddamn it.
You don't smoke ... why do you want to start now.
Because I'm scared, that's why. You never smoked?
I used to, but I stopped.
You stopped? Why?
Because I don't want cancer.
You don't want cancer? You're about to get your head blown off, you're worried about cancer. Gimme the cigarette.
No! I'm not kidding. Don't you understand? You're pure!
Pure?
You shouldn't start now.
For God's sake! As soon as I'm outta this bank robbery, I'm gonna stop ... okay?
Go ahead. Do what you want to do. I hate to see you break a perfect record. You oughta take care of your body.
My body? What for?
Your body is the temple of the Lord.
You're serious!
You're really pure, you know? You got a perfect record. You never used that stuff to ruin your body, why start now?
You know, you remind me of my 19 yearold brother  only he's got his hair down to his knees  he looks like something that eats berries and roots out of the ground. God forbid I should say something to him like, 'Listen, if you ever smoke marijuana, just remember that it's illegal' and he storms outta the house. You rob a bank, but you keep your body pure, is that it?
You gonna smoke the cigarette?
Yes...
How did you know your son was involved?
It was on the TV.
When was the last time you saw Sal?
Oh, a long time. Because I kept asking my husband where the heck could Junior be? He wasn't around here. I thought maybe he was in prison or some place.
Did you know he was a homosexual?
No, not until after they killed him.
Did you always call him Junior.
Yeah.
Do you remember anything else about Sal?
No, that's all.
It's up to you ladies.
Howard!
Hey, girls  I was on television...
What about Howard?
I didn't eat any pizza.
I told you, he's got diabetes.
I wish somebody would tell me I'm gonna live long enough for it to be a habit. My parent, she'll be okay. My husband, he'll be okay. I even know who the bum is gonna marry. Terrific. She'll take good care of him.
Girls, I wanta apologize. For my language back there.
Ah, Sonny! Good luck, you know?
You were terrific, too!
Hey. It's raining.
What is it, Sam?
Everything's all right? You okay?
Yeah, just a cigarette got in a wastebasket.
You all right?
Little smoke: like a Polish four alarm fire, is all.
Yeah. Well, you're okay?
Yeah, thanks for keeping an eye out.
Okay.
Thanks again, Sam.
I'm glad it's okay.
It's okay. [Regards to the family, Sam.]
Okay, okay... we know it's a stickup!
If he moves  blow his guts out... Cover him!
Hey... let him out!
Do what the gentleman says, Howard.
Okay, is the vault open?
I can take care of that.
I must of been outta my mind.
Well, you get your mind right. I'm a Catholic and I don't wanna hurt nobody, but goddamn it, don't you play no games with me. Unnastand?!?
What's the matter with you?
Come on, lemme load you up...
This is it? What am I gonna do with this? Holy shit!
It's all we got.
Okay, don't worry about it. Stick it in the bag...
Hey, you, manager... Don't get any ideas, fucker... See that man there? I bark and he bites!
Believe me, I'm on your side.
My side, shit!
Hello... I'm sorry I can't talk to you right now... I suggest you call during banking hours tomorrow. What is your name?
Gimme the traveler's checks and the register.
Howard, give him the keys...
Gimme the keys to get outta here!
The gun's right on your back...
Give me the keys...
For God's sake, will you please go now? We gave you every nickel we got.
You're goin' outside with me. If there's no cops around, we just split. Otherwise, you go with us.
Hello, Mulvaney here...
Sal, get 'em in the vault.
I swear to God... on my salary, I'm not gonna be any hero...
I took too long.
Where's the back door?
It's locked on the inside. It's through that passageway and to the right.
Now, you  what's your name?
Mulvaney...
You and me are checking the other ways in and out.
Let's go to the back door. How'd that guy get to be a guard?
Well, they go to guard school.
To what ... learn how to shoot? They don't get a gun.
They make $105 a week to start. They fold the flag, check the place out in the morning. I don't know what they learn, Sonny.
You got kids?
I got two kids ... and I'd like to see them again.
Ah, I know! You're being very cooperative. I got no complaint against you whatever; you got bank insurance?
Don't ask me questions. I got connections. You find out who I am, you're cold meat.
I don't care who you are ... I just want to get you outta here, safe, right?
What if I take you with me?
If you take anybody, please take me.
They'll shoot you; the fucking cops'll shoot you ... they don't give a damn. In spite of that bank insurance. You see what they did in Attica, they shot everybody, the hostages, prisoners, cops, guards, fortytwo people they killed, the innocent with the guilty.
You're just a nice guy, Mr. Mulvaney. Only don't fuck around with me, you know what I mean?
I don't fool around with you.
What?
The TV ... they want to talk to you ...
Why the hell did he do that? What the hell did I do?
I guess he didn't appreciate your use of language. They don't speak that way on television. It's a rule. Do you realize you've cut off a valuable source of communication?
You see what we're dealing with? They want me to kill all of you!
What now, Sonny?
Wait a minute ... I've been looking at this all wrong ... Let's look at it the other way ...
Where's the air conditioning?
I don't know, Sonny ... on the roof somewhere I guess.
SONNY +++$+++
Do you think we can turn it on?
I don't know.
Are we going to get the ball rolling?
What are you talking about? What do you think I'm doin'? I'm gettin' the ball rollin'. I'm keeping these people happy ... I'm keeping you happy ... I gotta keep the cops cooled out ... I gotta do everything ... I gotta pay for the pizza ... I'm workin' on it, do you know what I mean? I'm workin' on it ... Jesus Christ! I gotta do it all ... I got all the ideas ... you want me to give you the gun? You want to take it over?
I'm okay ... I'm okay ...
You know more than the Doctor? You're not okay, look at you. Come on ... ... let's get him out ...
I'm not going. I'm okay.
Hey! I'm tryin' to help you.
I stay here. Damn it. I just needed the insulin. I'm used to it. Go on. Go on.
You tell me. Is he endangering his health, because if you tell me he is, I'll get him out.
I'll be God damned if you will.
Oh, Jesus! You want to be a martyr or a hero or what?
I'll never see them again, Mister Mulvaney.
They look like good kids.
They're like any others but they're special to me. You got kids? You told me; you got two.
Special to me, too.
You like me?
Sure  we like you.
No you don't.
You seem like a likable enough guy. It's hard to judge.
You know, I don't know him very well  but he's not gay ... and he's not going back to prison ... One time when he was in prison, they gangbanged him; 13 years old and eight guys gave it to him ... So Sal isn't goin' back to prison, no way.
I'm sorry.
You know ... I like you people ... I really do.
We like you, too.
You know  I had a job once. I used to work in a bank. I had been training ... I used to have a boss ... Mr. Don Frio ... he wore a toupee ... I wonder if you'd hire me if I came in here and asked you for a job ...
Would I hire you?
Yeah.
Why not?
I don't think so.
Mister Mulvaney?
Yeah?
Are you a lawyer?
No. I had some legal training, but...
I want to dictate my will. I need a notary?
You got Bank Americard?
What now, Sonny?
Listen, I owe a couple hundred dollars! I don't wanta leave owing anybody anything! A clean slate, a new leaf...
Here comes the FBI. You men lookin' for protection? We got all the police right here.
Why didn't you just wait and try to take 'em out there in the street?
We're all set at Kennedy.
What makes you think you'll be able to control it?
He's totally unstable. He'll make a mistake.
He hasn't so far. I'm the one who can make a mistake. That's what scares the shit out of me.
Eugene, at 3:07, this became Federal. Why don't I take it over now?
Yeah.
What are you doin' in there?
Who's this?
This is Detective Sergeant Moretti, asshole, we got you completely by the balls. You don't believe me, I'm lookin' you right in the eye. Right now, I can see you...
What a fuckin' comedy! WNEW plays all the hits.
Listen, first off, is anybody hurt in there?
... But you keep away from the bank or we start throwing bodies out the front door one at a time... You got it? Okay?
Okay, you're in there and we're out here. What do we do now?
I told you  keep away. I don't know what we do now.
Awright, but I wanna talk to you. First off, we wanna know if the people in the bank are okay.
They're okay.
You alone, or you got confederates?
I'm not alone.
How many you got in there?
I got Sal.
Sal? What's that for? Salvatore?
Sal. He's the killer. We're Vietnam veterans so killing don't mean anything to us, you understand?
Right  got ya. Okay, so there's you  what's your name?
What do you want to know that for?
Give me a name, any name, just so I got somethin' to call you.
Call me Sonnyboy.
Sonnyboy, one word?
One word. You won't find it in the phone book.
Listen, Sonny ... can I call you Sonny for short?
Call me whatever you want.
Okay, Sonny, I want to see if the people in the bank are okay, then what I want to do is work out a way to get them out of there. I want to come over there, without a gun ... and you can frisk me. So you can see you can trust me. So we can talk and find a way outta this mess.
I frisk you?
You frisk me.
Right  I'm with you, buddy.
I'd like just some sign I can trust you too, Sonny. I don't want to trust my body out where you could just shoot me. Some sight ... right?
Sure ... like ... I'm not gonna shoot you.
How about letting the people out of the bank. Why put them in this position?
They're what's keeping me alive. You think you're dealing with an idiot? Talk to me then.
Okay, give us the women.
Oh, no ... Women is all we got.
You're all one way! I'm bein' reasonable with you; give me somethin' ... Give me one of them, anyway ... Just one ...
So  you want me to send one out there ... Okay. I'll see what I can do.
You got these cops outta here. They're comin' in too close.
Come on. I want you to see something.
You want me to give up, huh? Look, Sal's in back with the girls. Anything happens to me  one move  and Sal gives it to them. Boom boom. How do I know you won't jump me?
I don't forget about Sal and the boom boom room. I want you to see this.
Let Sal come out, take a look. What hope you got? Quit while you're ahead. All you got is attempted robbery.
... armed robbery ...
Well, armed, then. Nobody's been hurt. Release the hostages, nobody is gonna worry over kidnapping charges, the worst you're gonna get is five years  you can be out in a year.
What?
When I'm bein' fucked, I like to be kissed a lot. Who the fuck are you tryin' to con me into some deal? You're a city cop, where's the FBI? This is a federal offense, I got kidnapping, armed robbery, they're gonna bury me! You know it, you can't talk for them, you're some flunky pig tryin' to bullshit me. Now God damn it, get somebody in charge here to talk to me!
Calm down, you're not ...
Calm down... look at this, look at him...!
He wanted to kill me!
It's okay, you got a lot of protection.
I want a helicopter to get outa here! And a jet to take us to... ... wherever we want to go. Outa the country, so no little jets. A big one with a bar and a piano lounge.
I don't know, Sonny. I don't know if the helicopters can land in here. I'll have to check it out. I got superiors, unnerstan? They don't always see eye to eye with me. I'll do what I can.
Sonny, be reasonable!
I want to see my wife. I want you to bring her down here.
Okay, what do you give me?
What do you want?
The girl hostages.
Nothin' doin'. I give you one hostage when you bring my wife, and one for the helicopter, one for the jet, and the rest can come home on the jet.
I'll see what they'll do.
What the hell you doin' back there?
Sonny, come on out!
What the fuck do you want?
They were ...
You tryin' to fuck me?
No, I'm not tryin' to fuck you.
So, what were they doin'? You're tellin' me you had nothin' to do with that back there?
I swear to God I had nothing to do with it ...
Bullshit ... I don't walk to talk to you ...
Wait a minute ... everything you asked for is on the way ...
Yeah ...
Is on its way ... The helicopter can't land but we got a bus ... the jet's on its way to Kennedy ... we got a bus coming here ...
You're full of shit ...
Sonny, your wife's on the way ... We reached her ... your wife's on the way ... everything you asked for, you got.
Well, what were you doin' back there?
It can't happen again ... I'll do everything I can to stop anything I can ...
You know, you're telling me that a helicopter can't land here ...
Can't land ... you'd kill people ...
Don't fuck with me ...
I'm not ... I'm not ... you're gettin' a bus ... you're gettin' a bus ... the jet's comin' into Kennedy ... and your wife's on the way ... what else do you need? What else can I get you? Listen, I don't know how you can do better ... see that man over there ... the FBI guy ...
Just one more explosion like that and you're gonna see a dead body ...
There won't be ... there won't be ... What else do you need? How else can we help you?
All right ... I got some hungry people in there ... I want to get some pizza ... some stuff like that ...
What else?
Cokes, sevenups ... also some aspirin ...
Aspirins ... okay you got it. Charlie! Six pizzas!
Okay ...
Yeah?
We're bringing in your wife...
Is he all right? Is he all right?
He's all doped up.
I want to talk to him.
He's groggy, Sonny. Let me get him on his feet and he'll call you back.
Leon? Whatsa matter? They give you a shot down the hospital or what?
Oh, God, they shot me with like unreal!
Well, you got to get hold of yourself. You got to talk to him, tell him to give himself up.
Oh no!
He's got eight people in there with him. He's got this kid with him ... they're gonna shoot the people.
I can't help it. I can't stop him from anything.
If he won't listen to you, who will he listen to?
He won't listen to anybody. He's been very crazy all summer. Since June he's been trying to kill me.
You try calling the police?
What good is that? They couldn't stop him. And it'd just make him mad. They don't know him.
Somebody's got to stop him, Leon.
He was under great strain: you don't understand, he's a very mixed up person.
He's makin' threats in there.
He's scared. It's crazy. I never met anyone like him. His wife, he's a wonderful father to his children. His mother  you should see her  his mother and father together are like a bad car wreck  he lets it all slide off his back, he sees them, he pays their rent. Unbelievable. I wanted to get married ... He didn't really want it ... he's married already! But he did it. I don't know why. I thought it would help me, but it didn't. I was just as confused and unhappy was before; I did terrible things.
What kind of things, Leon?
Ten days I spent in Atlantic City  Sonny was frantic  he knew I was drinking; he didn't know where I was ... who I was with. I couldn't explain why I did the things I did. So I went to this psychiatrist who explained to me I was a woman in a man's body. So Sonny right away wanted to get me money for a sex change operation: but where was he to get that? 2500 dollars! My God, he's in hock up to his ears already.
He needed money? For the operation for you?
It made him crazy  so much demand, he'd fly into this rages. And I got more depressed than ever; I saw I'd never get the operation. So I tried to take my life  I swallowed about a half pound of pills ... blues, reds, yellows, downers, uppers, screamers ... you name it. But I just threw them up and wound up in the hospital. Sonny comes there and looks at me and just says: 'Wow!' So when I hear he's in the bank, I almost go crazy because I know he's doin' it for me.
Well, don't you figure you owe to him to get him out of there?
I can't talk to him.
You're in it up to your ass, Leon. You're an accessory. You talk him out of there and they might be a little more understanding of your case.
I'm afraid.
How is he gonna hurt you on the telephone?
I don't know what to say to him. I can't.
You think it over, Leon.
Hello. Hello, Leon.
Hello, Sonny.
How are you doing?
Well... I'm out of the hospital.
Yeah. You said... I thought you were never getting out?
I never thought I'd get out this way. I'll tell you.
Well.... huh ...
Ooohh....
Oh... huh ... how you feeling?
I'm really shakey.
Well, you know ... Moretti told me before that you were drugged up.
Yeah. It was terrible.
That... huh... they just shoot you with drugs.
You come in and they say, right away, that you are crazy. And they start putting things in your arm... you know. How do they expect you to get uncrazy if you're asleep all the time?
Yeah...
You can't talk or do anything. You really feel... you know... I'm just sort of coming out of it now.
So... that sure is something.
Yeah. So how are you?
Fine, thank you. I'm in trouble. That is... now I am!
Yeah... I know.
I don't know what I'm gonna do... you know. Boy... I'm dying.
What? What are you talking about? You are dying? Did you ever listen to yourself when you say that?
What are you talking about?
What do you mean... what am I talking about? Do you realize that you say that to me every day of your life? I am dying. Do you know... do you realize the death that you are spreading around to the people who are around you?
Now don't give me that deep shit now. Don't start with that shit.
No really... I don't think that you realize what it means. The things that you do, Sonny. You put a gun to somebody's head...
I don't know what I'm doing.
Yeah... obviously you don't... when you put a gun to somebody's head... and you say go to sleep so that it won't hurt when I pull the trigger. Death? Don't talk about death to me. I have been living with death for the last six months. Why do you think I'm in the hospital? I take a handful of pills to get away from you. And then here I am out of the hospital talking to you on the phone... again. I have no friends left. No job. I can't live. I have to live with people. This death business... I'm sorry!
I'm not on the phone to talk to you about that. Well, I don't know what to say, Leon. When you gimme that... when you hit me with that shit. I mean, what am I supposed to say?
I'm sorry...
I told you. That I got a lot of pressures. You said to me that you needed money, and I knew that you needed money! I saw you there lying in the hospital like that... and I said... shit, man, I got to get this guy some money.
But I didn't ask you to go rob a bank.
All right. I know you didn't ask me. You didn't ask me but I did it.
Well...
I did it on my own. I did this all on my own. I ain't laying it on anybody. Nothing on anybody. I'll tell you something, though, it's about time that I squared away my accounts... you know. I am squaring away my accounts with life. Maye this whole thing is gonna end, somehow. Maybe it'll just end! Maybe I'll just close my eyes and the whole fucken thing will be over. That would be all right too! I said... I thought I would square it away with you... you know? That I would get you down here and that I would say so long to you... or, if you wanted... you know, to take a trip...
What trip?
I'm getting out of here, man. I'm not going to stay here and I'm not giving up. I mean, huh, they're going to kill me, anyway. So fuck it! But, if I can get out of this... I am going to get out. And, how I'm going to do it is to get a jet out of here and I'm flying the fuck out... That's all, Leon. If you want to come with me, then you're entitled... you can come. You're free to do what you want.
I'm free to do what I want? And you think I would want to go with you some place on a plane? Where? Where ya going?
I gotta jet coming here and we're gonna try to get the fuck outta this thing. And we're gonna go, man!
You're crazy.
That's it.
You're really crazy.
I know!
Where you gonna go?
Who the fuck knows? I think we're gonna go ... we worked it out to Algeria. So, I don't know. So I'll go to Algeria.
Why you going to Algeria?
Huh ... I don't know. They got Howard Johnson's there. I don't know why the fuck I'm going there for.
Howard Johnson's... you're warped. You know that? You're really warped!
I know that. I'm warped... I'm warped!
God, Algeria! Do you know there's a bunch of... they walk around there... God! People walk around with masks and things on their heads. They're a bunch of crazy people there.
What am I supposed to do?
I don't know... you could have picked a better place.
Denmark? Sweden?
I like that... yeah!
Sal wanted to go to Wyoming. I told him it wasn't a country. We gotta get outta the country! To hell with a guy who doesn't know where Wyoming is. Okay. Can you imagine what kind of a shape I'm in?
So! Sal is with you?
Sal? Yeah... Sal is with me.
Oh... wow! Sonny, you're really into one mess now.
I know I am. I know!
Sal... Sal... Naturale, oh boy!
He ain't going out. And if I go out he's just gonna kill the people. There's a lot of lives that I'm responsible for... that's all. So, I can't do anything. I got myself into this mess and I'll get myself out of it... the best way I know how! One of the ways is not giving up. I'm telling ya!
Would you do something for me? Please?
What?
These guys that got me down here, you know, huh... they think that I'm part of this whole thing. They think I'm part of the plot to rob the bank!
How did they think that? What are they... crazy? What do you mean. That's bullshit, Leon. They're giving you a fucken story.
Well... they told me that I was an accomplice...
Oh... they're fucken crazy. That's a snow job. Don't listen to that shit!
I gotta listen to it if they think...
Shit...
I can't survive in prison, Sonny...
All right. Then what do you want me to say?
Sonny, would you please just tell them... please...
Where are they now? Just tell me... are they on the phone now?
Yeah.
That's great. Just terrific. You talk to me with them on the phone, right? That is really smart. And, you don't tell me?
I don't have a choice.
You don't have a choice?
No! They're standing all around me. Seven thousand fucken cops... all around me.
Look... who's on the phone?
Look... don't throw that on me.
Who's on the phone, now? What do you mean... throw it on you? You knew it, right?
Yeah... I knew it. But, what choice do I have? I'm in the hospital; they drag me out of the hospital... bring me down here...
All right, enough! Who the fuck is on the phone... anyway? Is that you Moretti? You on the phone? Will somebody talk to me?
They won't talk to you.
Are they on the phone still?
Yeah... yeah!
All right! He didn't do it. All right? Now... would you get the fuck off the phone? I'll bet that really changed them, huh? Anyway, Leon... did I do it for you?
Yeah... huh, thank you. I'm going to go back, Sonny, to the hospital. They're really nice people. They're really trying to help me.
That's good then. You've found something.
Well... I don't know if I have or not.
Do you still want the operation?
Yeah... yeah.
Well, then...
It's my only chance!
I don't know what to say to ya! I guess I just wanted to say I'll see ya... or whatever.
Thank you much... and huh, bon voyage.
Right. See you sometime.
Yeah... see ya in my dreams, huh?
Yeah... I'll write a song. Ha, ha. I don't know. Life is funny!
You said a mouthful... sweetheart!
Jesus Christ is coming back and he's really pissed.
Yeah, well I don't blame him.
You know, Sonny, I used to dope a lot, and I was into dipping? And I did a couple bank jobs, and the Lord Jesus in his everlasting mercy saved me, you know how?
No. Look, we're kind of....
That's why I can talk to you, as an equal, Sonny. You got to merge your whole soul with God. And then you are Him and one with the Holy Ghost.
Yeah, well...maybe you better talk to one of these others, okay?
Sonny? Don't send me away! I can help you save your soul ...
Jenny?
He says he doesn't know. Why don't you cook whatever's there?
It looks like a whole roast.
Honey, send out for Kentucky fried chicken. The baby, just open a bottle of prunes, and one of the beef. The bottles are in the fridge.
What guns?
The robbers in the bank. They got guns?
Yeah. A lot of guns.
Well, stay away from them. Don't get close.
Oh, yeah, I will...
I'll kiss the baby for you.
I love you.
Sonny, I'm gettin' real bad vibes.
Jackie  what are you talking about?
Maybe we can take something smaller... like a Spanish grocery.
It's too late  just get away from me  don't talk to me now  go over to your place...
Hey, don't take the car!
Well, how'll I get home?
Take the subway. We need the car. Hey, gimme the keys  the keys!
Sonny, there's somebody under that desk over there... I'm sorry...
It's okay... it's okay...
Hey, Sonny! I'm watchin' it on TV!
What about the kids?
They don't know, I sent them to the neighbors. Sonny, Jesus, it's not like you. I can't believe, because you never hurt anybody since the day I knew you.
Heidi, I'm dying.
I blame myself, Sonny. I notice you been tense, like something is happening; the night before last you're yellin' at the kids like a madman, believe me. And then you wanted me to go on this ride with the kids, this caterpillar about from here to there  fulla one yearold kids. It's ridiculous. I'm not about to go on this ride, so you yell right there, 'You pig, get on the fuckin' ride!' Well, everything fell outta  me  my heart, my liver fell to the floor  you name it! Yellin' at me in front of all those people. Because you never talked and I never been scared of you, never. I think: he's gonna shoot me and dump my body in the river.
Heidi, for Christ sake, shut up! Will you shut your fucking mouth and listen?!
See? You're screaming with the language and all! A person can't communicate with you. You become a stranger in your own home...
...because you hurt me, God how you hurt me. Can you imagine, marrying another man? Did I do something to make you do that? Did I ever turn you down, or anything? The only thing I couldn't do, you're gonna laugh, is go on top  I got this fear of high places! And I let myself get fat.
Don't call yourself fat.
I know you can't stand me to say I'm fat. Like I can't stand you being a bank robber. I guess that's what love is  huh, Sonny?
Heidi  why didn't you come down here?
Jesus  what  I'm afraid  I'm gonna get shot or whatever. You oughta see it on TV, the guns, the cops, they got cannon, machine guns, they're loaded with gear.
They're not after you, they're after me.
Listen, it's late already when I realize it's not just a couple of ordinary faggots, it's just you and Sal. I couldn't get a baby sitter.
These seats come out?
Yeah.
Jesus, you're the man!
Come on, what's under this?
I was lookin' at it. I saw you, man! Jesus! You oughta see yourself! You wouldn't believe it.
Yes, I would.
God damn it, Sheila isn't gonna believe it. They just call in and say gas up a stretchout and get it down to and I say, 'shit, another load of Elks for the massage parlors.'
Okay.
Aw, hey...
Come on, nobody's gonna get hurt. If they were gonna shoot, they'd shoot now.
You'll be okay.
You men shoot, aim for the white meat!
Gene  you smilin'?
No. I never smile any more.
Whattaya think: we gonna kill any civilians tonight, Gene?
I never make bets or guesses, that way I'm never wrong and I never have to pay out.
Gene, Jesus, what a bull he is!
So whatsa deal?
They jet's comin' out. But don't let 'em off the ground.
What if we gotta kill a whole lot of people?
Don't let 'em off the ground.
Listen.
If you're right I'm gonna back you a hundred percent, you know that.
Fuck you, sir  if I'm right, I don't need you. What I want is  if I make an honest mistake I want help.
I am, Sir...Sergeant Al Powell.
Dwayne Robinson. Well, what have you learned? What do they want?
The terrorists? Don't know, Sir. We haven't heard a peep from them.
Then who the hell have you been talking too?
We don't exactly know, Sir. He won't give us him name. He appears to be the man who called in the report...he's killed one of the terrorists for sure and claims he capped two others.
He claims? Powell, has it occured to you he could be one of the terrorists, pulling your chain? Or some kind of nut case who 
I don't think so, Sir. In fact... I think he's a cop. Maybe not LAPD, but definitely a badge.
How do you know?
A hunch. Things he said. Like, knowing how to recognize a phony ID 
 recognizing phony ID's? Christ, Powell, he could be a fucking bartender for all we know!
What's going on?
What's it look like? We're going in.
Going in...are you out of your mind? There's 30 hostages in there  for all we know 
 all we know? We don't know shit, Powell. If there's hostages why hasn't anyone asked for ransom? If there's terrorists, where's their goddamn list of demands? All we know is that someone shot up your car, and it could be the same flake you've been talking to on the radio!
What about the body that fell out of the window  ?
Who the hell knows? Maybe he was a stockbroker who looked at the Dow Jones and opted for early retirement!
Is that him?
Yessir.
Give me that. Now, listen to me, mister, I don't know what you think you're doing, but demolishing a building doesn't fall under the definition of 'help'! There's hundreds of people out here and you covered half of them in pieces of glass 
Goddamn, didn't you hear him! He practically pulled the Goddamned trigger himself  he gave that man to them 
Christ, can't you read between the lines! He did everything he could to save him...if he gave himself up they'd both be dead!
Maybe. And maybe they'd at least be talking to us! Now tell your 'partner' to stay out of it, or so help me if he lives through this I'll put him behind bars myself!
He's alone, tired, hunted, and hasn't seen diddlysquat from us and you think he gives a flying fuck about what you're going to do to him? Robinson, wake up and smell the shit you're shoveling!
Anytime you want to go home, Sergeant...consider yourself dismissed.
This is 
This is Deputy Chief Robinson. Who is this?
How do you know?
I've seen enough phoney ID's in my time to recognize that the ones they've got cost a fortune. Add all that up and I don't know what the fuck it means, but these are bad ass preps and they're here to stay.
I hear you... Partner. And LA's finest are on it, so light 'em if you got 'em.
I'm ahead of you...partner.
Uh, what do I call you?
'Roy'.
Got it...'Roy'. Now listen. If you think of anything else you think we need to know, don't be shy, okay? In the meantime I want you to find a safe place and holeup and let us do our job. Understand?
They're all yours, Al. Good luck.
I'm here, Roy, but I'm, uh, kind of busy. Let's talk later, okay?
Al, what's wrong? Did something   Oh, God. You're coming in! That's it, isn't it? Christ, Powell, I told you what you're dealing with here 
I said we'll talk later, Roy. If you're what I think you are you should know when to listen, when to shut up... and when to pray.
Safe and sound, thanks to you. What the fuck was that?
The plastique I found. Is the building on fire?
No, but it's gonna need one hell of a paint job and a shitload of screen doors. One spotters say you got two with that blast.
Two? Are you sure?
Hey, I love you. So do a lot of the guys. So hang in there, man. Hang in there.
Thanks...partner.
Yeah, just trying to handle some year old twinkies. Yucck. What do they put in these things?
'Sugar, enriched flour, partially hydrogenated vegetable oil, polysorbate 60 and yellow dye #5.'
You sound like a man with a couple of kids.
Not yet, the wife in working on our first. You got any kids back on the ranch?
Two. And I'd sure like to see them swinging on the jungle gym with Al junior.
It's a date. You buy the ice cream.
Al? Al, you there?
I'm here, cowboy.
Speaking of cows, did you ever hear so much bullshit in your life? Two hours? That doesn't even make any sense 
Don't tell me, partner. I'm just a desk jockey who was on the way home when you rang.
The way you drove that car, I figured you for the streets.
In my youth, partner. In my youth.
Roy? You still with us?
Yeah. But all things being equal, I'd rather be in Philadelphia. By the way, chalk up two more terrorists.
They boys'll be glad. We got a pool going on you.
Yeah? What's the odds?
You don't want to know.
They way you drive, I can see why.
I...I shot a kid.
Eleven years ago. Oh, it was dark... he was big for his age...damn ray gun he had looked real enough...yeah, I had all the right excuses...but afterwards... I really couldn't draw my gun again.
I...I'm sorry. I didn't mean to make a joke of it.
Hey, you couldn't know.
I still feel like shit.
Then this won't matter. LAPD's not calling the shots anymore.
Powell? What's going on?
Ask the FBI. They've got the terrorist playbook and they're running it, step by step.
Look...I'm getting a bad feeling up here...I'd like you to do something for me. Look up my wife...don't ask how, you'll know by then...and tell her...tell her...I've been a jerk. When things panned out for her, I should've been behind her all the way ...We had something great going until I screwed it up...She was the best thing that ever happened to a bum like me. She's heard me say I love you a thousand times, but she never got to hear this...honey...I'm sorry. You get all that?
I got it. But you can tell her yourself. Just watch your ass and you'll make it.
I hope so. But that's up to the guy upstairs. Upstairs... ...Hans, you bastard...what were you doing?
Roy?
Stand by, Powell. I gotta check something out.
Al. Man, you were my rock. I couldn't have made it without you.
Bullshit.
I'm serious. Hey, this is my wife... Holly Gennero.
Excuse me, I'm looking for 
Holly Gennero?
Yeah. How'd you know?
I've spent half my life on airplanes, * I can recognize someone who just got off one. I'm Joe Takagi, Mr. McClane. I have ...something to do with this company.
So I've heard.
Relax, Ellis. I'm off duty.
Can I get you anything? Food? Cake? Watered down champagne punch?
I'm fine. You throw quite a party. I didn't know they had Christmas in Japan.
Hey, we're flexible. Pearl Harbor didn't work out, we got you with tape decks.
You wife's made for this business. She know how to drive a hard bargain.
Yeah. I remember our first date.
Nice, but one of us is three hours out of sync. I think it's me. Is there a place I can wash up?
Sure. Follow me.
What are you doing?
It's a long story. You know, I think that Ellis has his eye on you.
That's okay... ... I have an eye on his private bathroom.
Well, Cappy Roberts retired out here a couple years ago. He said I could bunk with him.
Oh...Where does he live?
Ramona...no, Pomona, that's it.
Pomona! You'll be in the car the whole time...Look, let's make this easy. I have a spare bedroom. It's not huge, but the kids would love to have you at the house.
They would, huh?
I would too. * They lock eyes for a moment, but it's an intense moment that says a lot about how they still feel about each other.
...I've missed you. *
Especially my name. You must miss it every time you write a check. When did you start calling yourself 'Ms. Gennero'?
This is a Japanese company, you know? They figure a married woman, she's on the way out the door...
Sure. It's unnerving. I remember this one particular married woman, she went out the door so fast there was practically a jetwash...I mean, talk about your wind chill factor...
Didn't we have this same conversation in July? Damn it, John, there was an opportunity out here  I had to take it 
No matter what it did to our marriage  ?
My job and my title and my salary did nothing to our marriage except change your idea of what it should be.
Oh, here it comes. One of those 'meaningful relationship conversations.' I never should've let you get those magazine subscriptions 
You want to know my idea of a marriage? It's a partnership where people help each other over the rough spots  console each other when there's a down...and when there's an up, well, hell, a little Goddamn applause or an attaboy wouldn't be too bad. I needed that, John. I deserved that.
I'll be a few minutes. Wait here 
Don't I always?
John!
Holly, we have to stop meeting like this. So that's what it was. A fucking robbery. So why nuke the building, Hans?
I...have a request.
Oh? What idiot put you in charge?
You did. You murdered by Boss. Now... They're looking to me. Personally I'd pass on the jab. I don't enjoy being this close to you.
Go on.
We have a pregnant woman out there   relax, she's not due for two weeks, but a marble floor isn't doing her back any good. I'd like permission for her to more to one of the offices where there's a sofa.
No. But I'll have a sofa brought out to you. Good enough?
Good enough. And unless you like is messy, you'd better start taking us in groups to the bathroom.
Yes, you're right. It will be done.
Mr. Takagi chose his people well, Mrs...?
Gennero. Miss Gennero.
After all your posturing, all your speeches...you're nothing but a common thief.
I'm an exceptional thief, Mrs. McClane. And now that I'm moving up to kidnapping, you should be more polite.
Then there's no reason not to tell it to us.
I told you...
How long?
Thirty minutes to break the code... Two hours for the five mechanicals. The seventh lock...that's out of my hands.
If out plan works...the FBI will get rid of it for us.
Yo!
We may have some problems. How is your schedule?
Three down, four to go 
Then don't waste time talking to me.
You better heat up that miracle * you were talking about. We broke through on Number Six, and the Electromagentic came down like a sledgehammer...
* Well have a look at what our friends outside are doing and I'll be right up.
...the circuits that cannot be cut... are cut automatically in reponse to a terrorist incident...You ask for miracles, Theo...I give you the FBI...
When you're hot, you're hot.
Encourage them to be bolder.
The only thing left for them is the City Grid... ...They may not do it.
Bad for your health anyway.
Who are you, then?
Just the fly in the ointment, Hans. The monkey in the wrench, the pain in the ass 
Mr. Mystery Guest. Are you still there?
I wouldn't think of leaving, Hans. Unless you want to open the front door...?
I'm afraid not. But you have me at a loss  you know my name, but who are you? Just another American who saw too many movies as a child. Another orphan of a bankrupt culture who thinks he's John Wayne...Rambo... Marshal Dillion.
Actually, I was always partial to Roy Rogers. I really dug those sequined shirts.
Do you really think you have a chance against us, Mr. Cowboy?
Hear that? Talk to me, where are my detonators. Where are they or shall I shoot another one? Sooner or later... ...I might get to someone you do care about.
Go fuck yourself.
ohGodplease  don't kill me  don't kill me  you're one of them, I know it 
Whoa, whoa, easy man. I won't hurt you. Who are you? What are you looking for?
You...you're an American?
Only if New Jersey counts.
You...you don't work for Nakatomi... and if you're not one of them...
I'm a cop from New York.
New York...
They invited me to the Xmas party. Who knew?
Better than being caught with your pants down, right? John McClane.
William Clay. Call me Bill.
Bill, you know how to use a handgun?
One weekend I went to a combat ranch... You know, that game with the, the guns that shoot red paint? Must sound pretty silly to you...
Sounds better than nothing.
Hans. Your Hans.
Put it down now.
That was tricky, with the accent. I bet you do a great Ed Sullivan. Why do you need the detonators, Hans? I already used the explosives.
I'm going to count to three...
Yeah. Like you did with Takagi.
Nein, dies ein ist mein. This time John Wayne does not walk off into the sunset with Grace Kelly.
That was Gary Cooper, shithead...
No more jokes, drop it or she gets it between the eyes!
Whoa, Hans, now you're the cowboy?
'Yippekiyea, mother fucker'? Now you are fucked.
It's beautiful. I always enjoyed models as a boy. The exactness, the attention to every foreseeable detail... perfection.
This is what this is about? Out building project in Indonesia? Contrary to what you people think, we're going to develop that region... not 'exploit' it.
Yes...I know about them. The code key is a necessary step in accessing the vault.
You want...money? What kind of terrorists are you?
Who said we were terrorists?
The code key, please...?
It's useless to you! There's seven safeguards on our vault, and the code key is only one of them! You'll never get it open!
I don't know it! get on a Goddamn jet to Tokyo and ask the chairman! I'm telling you! You're just going to have to kill me 
Okay.
Nothing...
See to Heinrich... Now...you can break the code key...?
I know what you are feeling. But this is not productive 
He was my only brother...my only family! I want blood for my blood. We search...now.
No. Heinrich's team must finish planting the detonators...and Theo needs time on the vault. After the * police come they'll waste hours trying to negotiate...that's when we search * for this man. Until then...we do not alter the plan.
And if he alters it...? *
Hans, he killed by brother 
Karl, I know you want him, but the police are probably on their way. Maybe we can convince them it was all a mistake, but not if they hear gunshots! If you lock him in he'll be neutralized  now do it! Karl? Karl!
He wasn't lying about Marco: He's thirty stories down on the street. The other man is Heinrich, and I found his body upstairs. And his bag is missing.
He had the detonators! Theo? Theo!
 you wouldn't let me kill him when I had the chance 
If you'd listened to me he would be neutralized already!
I don't want neutral...I want dead 
'Asian Dawn Movement?'
I read about them in Time magazine. When these Revolutionary Brothers and Sisters are Free, the hostages in this building will be taken to the roof and they will accompany us in helicopters to the Los Angeles International Airport where you will be given further instructions. You have two hours to comply.
Hope I'm not interrupting...?
What does he want?
You're very perceptive.
Hey, I read the papers, I watch 60 minutes, I say to myself, these guys are professionals, they're motivated, they're happening. They want something. Now, personally, I don't care about your politics. Maybe you're pissed at the Camel Jockeys, maybe it's the Hebes, Northern Ireland, that's none of my business. I figure, You're here to negotiate, am I right?
You're amazing. You figured this all out already?
Hey, business is business. You use a gun, I use a fountain pen, what's the difference? To put it in my terms, you're here on a hostile takeover and you grab us for some greenmail but you didn't expect a poison pill was gonna be running around the building. Hans, baby...I'm your white knight.
I must have missed 60 Minutes. What are you saying?
The guy upstairs who's fucking things up? I can give him to you.
John, they're giving me a few minutes to try and talk some sense into you. I know you think you're doing your job, and I can appreciate that, but you're just dragging this thing out. None of us gets out of here until these people can negotiate with the LA police, and they're just not gonna start doing that until you stop messing up the works.
Ellis, what have you told them?
I told them we're old friends and you were my guest at the party.
Ellis...you shouldn't be doing this...
Tell me about it.
John, I think you could get with the program a little. The police are here now. It's their problem. Tell these guys where the detonators are so no one else gets hurt. Hey, I'm putting my life on the line for you buddy...
Don't you think I know that! Put Hans on! Hans, listen to me, that shithead doesn't know what kind of scum you are, but I do 
What am I, a method actor? Hans, babe, put away the gun. This is radio, not television...
That asshole's not my friend! I barely know him! I hate his fucking guts   Ellis, for Christ's sake, tell him you don't mean shit to me 
John, how can you say that, after all these years? John? John?
What's happening?
They don't look happy...something's gone wrong.
The police...?
John.
John? Christ, he could fuck this whole thing up...what does he think he's doing?
How about his job?
His 'job' is 3000 miles away. Without him, they might let us go...at least we have a chance...
Tell that to Mr. Takagi.
Where are you going?
I'm tired of sitting here waiting to see who gets us killed first... them...or your husband. Hi there.
What are you going to do?
Hey, I negotiate million dollar deals for breakfast. I can handle these clowns. I want to talk to Hans. Hans! Sprickenzie talk?
I'm Special Agent Johnson of the FBI. This is Agent Johnson...no relation.
Dwayne Robinson, LAPD. I'm in charge here.
Not any more.
One of yours?
No, sir.
If he's not a terrorist, and he's not a hostage...he's just not part of the equation.
 ten blocks? Are you crazy? It's Christmas Eve, thousands of people  the Mayor'll scream bloody murder 
We must shut down the building. Go wider !
I'm John McClane.
Argyle. I'm your limo driver. Hey, nice bag.
Argyle. Don't you take this stuff?
Do I? I'm sorry. You're gonna have to help me, man. This is my first time driving a limo.
That's okay. This is my first time riding in one.
If your friend is hot to trot...I know a couple of mama bears. ...Or is he married?
Married.
The girl was off today. Hey, I didn't expect you to sit up front. So, your lady live out here?
The past six months.
Meanwhile, you still live in New York?
You're nosey, you know that, Argyle?
Hey, I'm sorry. When I was a cabdriver, see, people expected a little chit chat, a little eccentricity and comaraderie, I forgot how stuck up you limo guys were, so excuse me.
It's okay, it's okay.
So, you divorced of what?
She had a good job, it turned into a great career.
But meant her moving here.
Closer to Japan. You're fast.
So, why didn't you come?
'Cause I'm a New York cop who used to be a New York kid, and I got six months backlog of New York scumbags I'm still trying to put behind bars. I don't just get up and move.
You mean you thought she wouldn't make it out here and she'd come crawling on back, so why bother to pack?
Like I said, Argyle...you're fast.
Mind if I play some tunes?
How 'bout some Christmas music?
That is Christmas music.
So, you go on upstairs to the party, your lady sees you, you run into each other's arms. Music comes up, you live happily ever after, that it?
It's corny, but I could live with it.
What is it don't work out that way? Where you gonna stay?
I'll find someplace.
You're all right, Argyle.
Just remember that when you sign for the tip. They're paying for it, so don't be shy.
I wanted to give it all to the church.
My money? Why, Mister Stevens? What a quaint idea. Come over to the door. I want to speak to you privately. Stop throwing away that money. We mustn't let people see any softness in you, Mister Stevens.... People take advantage of softness, you know. Come out of there  I'll give you an extension if you'll forget this stupid repentance idea.
That isn't it. It's ... the loneliness, Mr. Scratch ... the loneliness!
The loneliness? Lonely with all your gold, Mister Stevens? That hardly makes sense.
I want someone to talk to ...
You can talk to me ...
No, no ... I want to talk to men ... to people in Cross Corners ...to my neighbors ...
Why don't you?
I can't be honest with them.
Oh, that's what you want  well, you can be perfectly honest with Jabez Stone  now.
It's only a short drive, Mr. Webster.
Oh  it's you again. What do you want?
With the presidential election coming up, I thought I could be of some help, sir.
I'd rather see you on the side of the opposition.
I'll be there, too!
Say, that's pretty good, young man.
Pretty good  that's perfect!
Mr. Webster, I presume?
Attorney of record for Jabez Stone. Might I ask your name?
Scratch will do for the evening. May I  join you?
Why, certainly  but be careful, Mr. Scratch  Medford rum has an uncanny habit of kicking back, even with oldtimers like yourself.
It even kicked back  once at you, didn't it?
Me?
Oh .. not that you ever get drunk! No, indeed! But a kind of overpowering lassitude or, more plainly, a deep and enveloping sleep.
There isn't enough Medford rum in the whole of New Hampshire to make me sleepy.
Talk has never proved that question, Mr. Webster! Cup for cup  what do you say?
Cup for cup!
Your spirited efforts on behalf of your clients do you credit, Mr. Webster  If you have no more arguments to adduce I'll take him along now.
Not so fast, Mr. Scratch. Produce your evidence  if you have it.
There, Mr. Webster. All open and aboveboard and in due and legal form.
H'm. This appears  I say appears  to be properly drawn. But you shall not have this man! A man isn't property! Mr. Stone is an American citizen, and no American citizen may be forced into the service of a foreign prince.
Foreign? And who calls me a foreigner?
Well, I never heard the dev of your claiming American citizenship.
And who with better right? When the first wrong was done to the first Indian, I was there. When the first slaver put out for the Congo, I stood on the deck. Am I not spoken of, still, in every church in New England? 'Tis true, the North claims me for a Southerner, and the South for a Northerner, but I am neither. To tell the truth, Mr. Webster, though I don't like to boast of it, my name is older in the country than yours.
Then I stand on the Constitution! I demand a trial for my client.
You mean  a jury trial?
I do! If I can't win this case with a jury, you shall have me, too. If two New Hampshire men aren't a match for the devil, we'd better give this country back to the Indians.
Very well.  You shall have your trial, Mr. Webster. The case is hardly one for an ordinary jury 
Let it be the quick or the dead  So it is an American judge and an American jury!
The quick or the dead! You have said it. May  the best man win, Mr. Webster!
I'll drink to that, Mr. Scratch!
Your Honor  gentlemen of the jury  this case need not detain us long. It concerns one thing alone  the transference, barter and sale of a certain piece of property, to wit, his soul by Jabez Stone. That transference, barter or sale is attested by a deed. I offer that deed in evidence and mark it Exhibit A.
I object.
My congratulations  as between two gentlemen.
Why, you longbarreled, slabsided, lantern jawed, noteshaving crook, be off with you ...
Hey there, Dan'l! Black Dan'l!
Hullooo!
Someone to see you, Dan'l!
If it's the British Minister, take him around to the pantry and give him some Madeira 
Just someone from New Hampshire!
Why, that's different! Well, boys, I guess we'll knock off. I've got to see a friend.
It is.
You've got a smart man, Mrs. Stone. Hang onto him.
 I'm going to try, Mr. Webster.
Well Mary, it's too bad I didn't know  I would have given you a real dinner, but with my wife being in Washington  Have another piece of pie 
No, really, thank you.  Is Mrs. Webster coming back soon?
Well  she hardly ever comes here  she's not the type of woman who cares to live in the country. Yes  I'm all on my own  sometimes it makes you feel a little lonely  Do you mind if I indulge?
Of course not 
No, you wouldn't  You're not the sort of woman that's afraid of smoke  or fire  But now let's talk about your affairs.
Goodness, Mr. Webster, I've done nothing but talk about that all through dinner.
Yes, you've chatted a lot, womanlike nibbling around the edge  But, Mary, forgive an old lawyer's legal mind, I don't think you ever once came to the point. And there is a point, isn't there?
Why  yes  it's hard to put it into words, Mr. Webster. There's this matter of little Daniel's schooling and the new house  and well  there's something else that's wrong  it gets worse, year after year  it's like a shadow growing  I can't really talk about it, even to Ma  she puts it all on Jabez and I won't stand for that.
I've heard some odd things about Jabez lately  he seems to make the wrong kind of name for himself.
Mr. Webster, you mustn't believe all that people say.
You don't have to defend him to me, Mary  I've been called names myself.
You see, I don't care if we are rich or poor  I don't care if we're big or small, all I care about is Jabez. He was the first man I loved. He never used to care about money  we were poor as Job's turkey, but none of us minded. Now I've seen him drive the poor from the door, and we used to be poor ourselves. I've seen him get hard and mean, and he isn't hard or mean. I've heard him mock at the church bells  the bells that rang for our wedding. That's not like him, Mr. Webster  It must be my fault somehow  my fault.
Mary  you've talked to me as you might have talked to your father and I believe he wants me to help you a little. You see, sometimes we think we're licked in this life  but we weren't put here to be licked. Don't you believe it. Sometimes the shadows seem to get hold of us  the shadows and the evil  but it is still up to us to fight. Now I was thinking before you came, of coming over to Cross Corners end of the month, to get acquainted with my Godson  and other things.
Oh, could you, Mr. Webster ?
And now come on, Mary. I want to show you the allfired biggest parsnips in the whole United States, raised right here in Marshfield  of course!
Oh  Mr. Webster  I'm so glad you came!
Are you, Mary? Well, I guess I'm glad myself  seeing as how you feel this way. Party seems to be quite a success. Lots of guests, anyhow.
Jabez ...
Mary  what love and trust could do for your husband, you've done. And frankly, in a very few moments, this is going to be no place for a lady.
Mr. Webster  you will help him?
I'll do my best, Mary.
There is nothing like a good old country breakfast. Where's Ma?
She'll be here in a moment. She has a special surprise for you.
What are you looking for, Colonel? What's your name?
Martin Van Buren Aldrich and my Pa's the only Democrat in Cross Corners. He said you had horns and a tall, Mr. Webster, but I ain't seen 'em yet.
Well, Martin, I only wear them in Washington  that's the trouble. But if you ever come down there, I'll show them to you.
Gee, would you, Mr. Webster? Honest?
Of course. And you tell your father for me  we may be on opposite sides of the fence, but I'm always glad to hear of a man who holds to his own opinions. As long as people do that  the country's all right. Do you understand, Martin?
Yes, sir  I guess I do  Gee 
You throw mighty far, Jabez  almost into the pigsty.
Mary  Jabez 
Coming, Ma.
Well, I guess we won't be going to church today.
I guess we won't.
That is  if you don't mind changing the lesson, Ma.
Land sakes, I don't mind. I never did hold much with Job, even if he is Scripture. He took on too much to suit me. I don't want to malign the man, but he always sounded to me as if he came from Massachusetts. Yes, Mary, you go ahead and read.
Let her be, son. She'll do all right. You better get yourself straightened out.
Yes, Jabez  don't worry.
I'll try hard  I just can't take it all in.
H'm. Hessian gold. Well  hope it'll do us more good than it did the Hessians.
You know, Ma, why the Squire came to see Jabez?
Yes, Mrs. Slossum told me  Lucy can't even keep a secret  Selectman  my son  well, who would have thought of that?
What a nice  and kind girl  Who is she ?
The new girl  Jabez says; she is from over the mountain.
What mountain?
Mary! Ready? First bell's aringing!
Yes, Ma  I'm ready 
She'll do nothing of the kind! She's going to church with me, right away!
Jabez  for the good of your soul ... please come with us.
Fox hunting  a Stone going fox hunting on a week day  and the earth crying out for the touch of him!
Now, Ma  You just try to set an example for me, and keep hold of yourself.
Me? Why, look here, Mary Stone  I'm worried about you, that's all.
Worried about me! Well, you just stop it!
What's that?
I said you should stop worrying because I've made up my mind!
So you've made up your mind to go to the party.
You aren't angry with me?
Ah, fiddlesticks  you are old enough to know what you are doing.
Be sure to let me know if Daniel is over there.
I won't forget.
Yep  you can't get around that mortgage.  I'm sorry, Jabez.
It's all right, Sheriff.
Wish I could really do something for you. But you know Stevens. He'll throw you off your farm tomorrow if you don't pay him tonight.
Let him try it.
The law is the law. Goodbye, Mary.
Hello, Sheriff.
Hello, Jabez  I was just talking to Stevens about a little extension on your payment.
And you didn't get it, hey? Come on, we'll have another talk with him.
It seems such an obvious candidature to us all.
Very well, folks. I accept.
Come in, Sheriff.
Jabez  seems like I've been hearing talk around. Reverend Harper thinks more Cross Corners folk oughter be in church, Sabbath morning.
Belle, give the Sheriff a cup of rum.
"There was a man in the land of Uz whose name was Job; and that man was perfect and upright, and one that feared God and eschewed evil."
Consarn the consarn 
Jabez! What kind of talk is that for the Sabbath? And me areading the holy word!
Sorry, Ma  but this consar this little pig  He won't let me fix him 
You know that, son.
Hard luck  like me.
Now, Jabez Stone  as for what you're calling hard luck  well, we made New England out of it. That and codfish.
That's right, Ma  we ain't licked yet. A Stone's never licked till he's dead  that's what Dad used to say, didn't he, Ma?
There! Guess that ought to hold good. Put him down here, by the fire, Mary. But we don't want to get him too close  we'll have roast pork for supper.
Not on the Sabbath you won't, Jabez!
How'd you know to have the calf ready, Ma?
I just figgered  knew you didn't have enough bills.
Yes  and you figgered right, consarn it!
That's a word you're too free with lately, Jabez, consarn this and consarn that ...
Helps sometimes to say it.
All right, son  if it helps.
What's ailing that dog?
I dunno.
Well ... make him keep quiet.
And why should I? Let him howl if it makes him feel good. Consarn it. He's better off than I am! I wish I could tell Him... ... up there, just what I think.
Hush up such talk, Jabez!
I can't help it. I mean it, I tell you. I've had more than my share. Nothing ever goes right for me  nothing!
You found it in the barn, hey?
Yes  I was getting the seed  I stumbled  I saw one of the boards warped up a bit  and  there it was.
Most outlandish thing I ever heard tell. Don't seem right, somehow!
But it's true. Take 'em up in your hands, Mary  feel 'em  they're real all right. Aren't you glad?
Well  that's comforting! Supper.
Say, Mary, how is your shoulder?
Well, son, I'm glad to see a Stone come up in the world again.
Now look here, Ma. I'm not a boy anymore. I want that understood. I don't aim to stay a onehorse farmer the rest of my life. Mary's got to be the kind of wife a  a big man needs 
It won't be the first baby ever born in this house. There! Made me drop a stitch! Sit down, you make me nervous! Lan's, that's the way a man always is. Thinks his son's the most important thing in the world.
My son! Do you really think, Ma....
Oh, go along with you! As if it mattered to a grandma! But p'raps you got an even chance.
Queer sort of weather we're having  queer like everything else.
Well, thank the Lord you can always depend on New England for weather. We've got enough for the whole United States.
I feel  fidgety, Ma  not right at all.
Lan's, I'd think you was having the baby, to hear you.
Me  a son.
Money  money's a funny thing, ain't it, Ma?
I figure that depends a mite on how you get it and how you spend it, Son.
Do you really think that?
Why, that's just sense, Son. Now a man like Daniel Webster  guess they pay him high for what he does. But he's worth it  and he helps others. Makes all the difference.
I know, Ma, but  Suppose a man got his money in bad ways 
Wouldn't profit him none.
You see, son? I'm old and I've lived. When a man gets his money in bad ways  when he sees the better course and takes the worse  then the devil is in his heart  and that fixes him.
Ma  and yet, a man could change that, couldn't he?
A man can always change things, Son. That's what makes him different from barnyard critters.
Oh, here you are, Jabez. Lan's, I was worried about you.... Hail in August! The crops will be ruined!
It don't matter!
What's that you say, Son?
I say  it don't matter.
Now that's the way to talk, Son! I know you worked hard for that crop. But we'll make out.
Make out? We'll do better than that! I never thought I'd be glad for bad luck, but I am. I never thought I'd be glad of a hail storm at harvest time, but I am! Oh, bless ye the works of the Lord in the hail and the storm and the rain!
Ma  is she? 
You'll be a father any minute now.
Golly, Ma  Consarn that music! Shouldn't ahad the harvest festival tonight.
Fiddlesticks! She don't hear it. Got better music to listen to than that. There  that's what I mean.
You go down and see what's keeping Dorothy.
Sure, Ma.
I want you to fix these fish!
And I say she won't! I'll not have the scorn of God on this place  with the smell of fish in it, polluting up the Sabbath! And as for you  let me tell you, young woman...!
My son ... what's the matter?
Ma! ... Where's Mary ... and little Dan'l?
Gone with Daniel Webster  to Marshfield, son.... You told Mary to go
Ma  Ma  it's all right, Ma!
Of course it's all right, son. You had Daniel Webster, didn't ye? Breakfast's ready! I've made a special surprise for Mr. Webster.
Jabez  help!
Coming.
Down, Shep! Down!
He only wants you to throw the stick for him, Jabez. I guess he's feeling the spring acoming, too.
All right  only he needn't dirty my pants!
What is that smile on your face? Is there anything wrong with me?
Now, Jabez! I've got on my Sunday bonnet and I'm going to church with my husband. Almost the first time since the beginning of winter  and if that isn't an occasion, I don't know what is.
You're right, Mary.
I think his leg is broken.
Oh, Jabez.
Yep.
I remember Dad used to say sometimes, when they were handing out hard luck, the farmers got there first.
Jabez, don't you remember your own wedding? We said it's for better or worse. We said it's for richer or poorer.
That's what we said.
He's stubborn as a Stone.
Hold the splint tighter  it's almost done. Go on reading, Ma. This man, Job, he had troubles, didn't he?
Well, I'll be  there's a rig, turning in, by the gate.
Who is it?
It's Tom Sharp and two other fellers  Oh, glory  where's my pants?
" ... and if the final vote shall leave thousands of our fellow citizens and their families in hopeless distress, can we  members of the Government  go to our beds with a clear conscience, can we, without self reproach, supplicate the Almighty Mercy to forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors?
That's wonderful language. It would move a stone.
If it would only move old Miser Stevens  We've still got to pay him.
Well  what are we going to do?
We can still use my butter money.
Your butter money?
Do you think I'm grudging it?
Mary  it's gone.
Not all of it?
Yes  I had to pay the vet in full. He just wouldn't have treated the horse this time. After all, we can't very well do without a horse.
It's all right, Jabez. We'll find something to pay Stevens.
If the pig hadn't broke his leg, we could have taken him.
Jabez! Couldn't you take a sack of seed instead?
To save us work on the spring plowing?
You always said, the field uphill needs a rest, but if you think 
Mary, I'm a farmer  always will be. To me seed isn't a thing to pay debts with, it's alive, more alive than anything  but I guess you're right. We just got to do it. Oh  how's it all going to end?
Jabez  you ought to talk to Tom about joining the Grange.
I will, Mary  always thought a man could be stronger alone  seems I've been wrong about that.
Jabez!
Seed alone won't do, Mary. We have to throw the calf in.
Oh Jabez! And we were counting on ... It's a lovely calf.
You're right, Mary it's a fine calf. That's why Stevens'll take it for the rest of the payment.
Mary
Jabez ...
Mary  how do you feel?
I'll get the doctor.
No, Jabez  all I need is some rest  You go and pay our debt. Everything'll be all right then ... everything.
Mary  what would you do with a pot o' gold?
Jabez!
Mary  what would you do?
Well  I  I don't know  I would pay our debts and well  maybe get a new bonnet, but  really  I think I would live the same.
Mary  look! Hessian gold. I found it in the barn.
It feels fine now, Jabez.
Will you come into town with me tomorrow?
I'd love to.
What do you think of that, Jabez?
Looks right elegant, Mary.
We must go on home, Jabez.
Yes, Mary. It's been a long day.
Remember, Mary, how he said it: "Couldn't have done better myself, Jabez Stone," and it was my first speech. I don't know what came into me, Mary. I just stood up and the words came flowing like water out of my mouth.
Oh, Jabez  it was a wonderful day 
But I'm glad to be home again 
Tired?
Worried!
There is nothing to worry about now.
You'll never change  will you?
Mary  you just wait and see  It's all  just the beginning  just the beginning  of everything. I'll be the biggest man in New Hampshire and you'll be the wife of the biggest man.
There's hope and promise in it, Jabez  Planting and promise of good harvest to come.
Yes  you are right, Mary. I can almost hear the little blades of grass astarting up  All the seeds astirring underneath the ground 
Don't take cold, Jabez. Come  it's warm in here.
Mary 
Jabez 
Mary, get three cups of camomile tea for the Squire and the rest. They all feel colds coming on.
I'll get it, Jabez.
Thanks, Mary.
Mary! I'm  Selectman of Cross Corners!
Oh  Jabez.
You could have knocked me down with a feather  Selectman  me.
I'll never get my washing done.
That's one thing I want to talk to you about, Mary.
Yes, Mr. Selectman!
I'm serious.
It's very becoming to you, Mr. Selectman.
But it's not very becoming to you to have your hands in the suds  when the Squire and his wife 
But Jabez  the washing has to be done 
Well  that's the last time  we'll have servants to do it.
No, no. I don't want to be idle.
And I don't want to have a washwoman for a wife.
Jabez  once you said we'd never change 
I wasn't used to being big  wasn't used to thinking in big ways. Now, I've made up my mind.
Ruined  all the fields  ruined.
Mary  but look  it didn't touch an ear of my corn  we'll have a rich harvest.
Mary 
Hello, Jabez  Here's your son.
Well  I  I
Don't be cross with him, Ma. This don't happen every day.
Potato bug sits on the leaf in the sun, Sleep, sleep, my baby  Raccoon sits in the spruce all night, Sleep, baby, sleep 
What in sugar hill's the matter with him?
Nothing, Jabez  just natural for a baby to cry, sometimes. Shh, little Daniel  sleep  sleep 
What happened.... Where are you taking him?
I am going to lock him up.
You're not supposed to punish my son, Mary.
Jabez  how can you let her talk like that when the boy is present? He won't respect me any more.
Isn't that your own fault?
My fault? ... Oh, Jabez  all I want is to be proud of him. He can be such a fine boy, if we show him how to be.
He's my son and I like him the way he is. Why do you always have to pick on him? If it's not the boy it's me. You don't like the way I live  you don't like my friends, or my new house  or anything.
But Jabez, I never said that!
It shows on your face.
Well  I am worried about the way you've changed. That was one thing you said you'd never do  remember?
Oh, for heaven's sake, leave me alone!
Why don't they come 
I don't know, Jabez.
Think this room is larger than anything Webster's got at Marshfield? You've been there. What about it, Mary?
It's  different, Jabez  that's all.
What's the matter with 'em? Why don't they come?
Mr. Webster ... Wait! ... Mary!
Jabez!
Mary! Come back ...
Oh, Jabez! ... Did you hear, Mr. Webster?  Now you'll help him, won't you?
You must go now, Mary  you must!
All right, Jabez ...
Jabez  Jabez!
Mary!
Coming along, Jabez?
Shall we?
Why  good morning, Squire.
Morning, Jabez.
Ahem  we want to have a little confidential talk with you, Neighbor Stone. Don't like to take a man away from his planting  but sometimes 
Come right into the parlor, won't you, folks.
Mighty good of you to come out, Squire  sparing all this time to  Sheriff, too  and Schoolmaster  mighty nice.
Ahem  Neighbor Stone, we want
Oh!
Headache  Squire?
Worst I had in years  ahem  starting a spring cold, I guess  er  don't happen to have a bit of camomile tea in the house, do you, Stone?
Camomile tea!
And so, Jabez Stone, in the name of the Whig Party of Cross Corners, we offer you the nomination of that party for Selectman.
Selectman? Selectman of the village? Me?
But  I was just lucky.
Well? Don't a politician have to be?
Howdy, Squire! Howdy! Oh  how do you do, Squire.
How do you do, Belle? How are you, Jabez? Well  mighty elegant house you got here.
You really think so?
Well, Jabez  I'm a little pressed for time. You wanted to discuss something  some business 
Oh yes  yes. Won't take a minute. Can you keep a secret?
Why of course 
Dan'l Webster is coming to my party.
Dan'l Webster?
Yes  and that's the reason I wanted to talk with you. You got my invitation?
Yes.
Now look  here's a list of the people I invited  they're all the right kind of people  or did I miss anybody?
The only one you missed  is the President.
You think that's a joke? I had him on there too, but I was afraid Dan'l Webster might feel insulted.
You keep that  that's for you. I want you to talk up the party to make sure that the best folks really come.
You want me to go around 
Yes siree  that's the idea. Get them all here and then say: "Look, folks  here's Daniel Webster, my guest of honor." Golly, I can see their eyes pop already.
You mean that's all you had me come out here for?
Now, Squire, you're not going to let me down. We still want to do a lot of business together, don't we?
Well  yes 
That's fine. Now you can tell people all about the house, but don't mention Webster.
You are not so sure that he'll come.
Oh yes  I am  want to bet?
Why not  ?
How much?
5000  that's just what I owe you.
Shake!
Ten throws  Mr. Webster?
Ten throws it is.
You win. Will you ride to the village with me, Mr. Stone?
Thank you, Mr. Webster.
I don't seem to be so very popular after all  in Cross Corners.
Seems like it's my fault, Mr. Webster.
Not at all, lad  not at all. For a good game of horseshoes I would always sacrifice fame and acclaim.
Here's a man who knows what's good for Dan'l Webster! Medford rum! Ah, a breath of the Promised Land! To the champion of the Iron Horseshoe, Jabez Stone!
Thanks, Mr. Webster! To the champion of the whole United States  Dan'l Webster!
Eloquent speech, Neighbor Stone  couldn't have done better myself   under the circumstances. Thank you.
Mr. Webster  I'd like you to meet my wife, Mary.
Well  I'll be  if it isn't little Mary Sampson from Franklin.
Well  Mr. Webster! This is a great day for me. Come on in, sir. I want you to take the seat of honor and meet all my guests!
That's just fine, Neighbor Stone  but  I have to be pretty careful of my seats of honor  where I sit, I mean. You see, the whole country sort of has its eye on me, Jabez  anybody in public life has that difficulty  even you, Jabez. They watch us carefully, our neighbors and our enemies, and they see much more than we think they do  and understand much more. My friends all like to think that I've got the good of mankind always at heart, and I've got to make sure that those I deal with have the good of mankind always at heart, too. Do you know what I'm talking about, Jabez?
What  what's on your mind?
You, Jabez Stone  you and a lot of poor farmers, hereabouts  good men of the earth who are in trouble because of you. Or  am I wrong about those contracts, Mr. Stone?
Contracts?  Yes, they have contracts with me  lots of 'em  but  but that's all right. Without me and my money, they wouldn't have anything.
They'd have a good neighbor, Jabez  and that's worth much more than anything else  much, much more!
I'm sorry you can't see that, I know you could once  you made a little speech once, that I'll always remember and I know the others do too  They remember and they see how you have changed. That's why they didn't want to come tonight to you, Jabez  you're as blind as a Burma bat, with your gold pot! Mind you, it's not the money, I've been talking about, it's what you make of it.
I  I don't know what you're talking about! I  I haven't time to listen to all this 
No  you haven't time  You haven't time for your mother, or your wife, or your child.
It's your fault! You brought Daniel Webster here  just to try to make a fool of me! You played the sneak behind my back  made up all sorts of lies against me! You can get yourself out of my home  go back to the other house  that old place, where you belong  I don't want to  to talk to you again!
It's here you said that you closed the deal with him?
Yes, Mr. Webster  it was here where it all began.
I see. And this is where he'd like to collect, too.
Yes  at midnight.
They make plucky women in New England. H'm ... how long have we to wait?
Not long  now.
Then I'll just christen the jug, with your permission, Stone. Somehow or other, waiting's wonderfully shorter with a jug.
There's nothing like it. I saw an inchworm take a drop of it once, and he stood right up on his hind legs and bit a bee. Come  try a nip!
There's no joy in it for me.
Oh, come, man, come. Just because you've sold your soul to the devil that needn't make you a teetotaler.
You were worried, Jabez, weren't you?
Well, I 
I know  that was mighty queer Medford  knew it the minute I tasted it. But it takes more than that to down Daniel Webster.
Ma says breakfast's ready, Mr. Webster!
Breakfast ... Ah! ... Come along friends, Ma Stone's a cook this side of heaven.
Do you deny that you called me? I've known people in other States who went back on their word. But I didn't expect it in New Hampshire.
You can't say that to me! I'm New Hampshire. If I say I called you, I did. I guess I did.
You've had a lot of bad luck these days. And yet  it's all so unnecessary. When I think of your opportunities 
Opportunities?
Of course. Why man, you have one of the richest farms in the county. You just go about it the wrong way  so many men do. Hard work  well, that's all right for people who don't know how to do anything else. It's all right for people who aren't lucky  but once you're lucky  you don't work for other people. You make them work for you.
Well, now, Mister, that sounds all right. But
A clever man like yourself  he can find money anywhere. Money to pay his bills  money for his wife and his children  money to be a rich man. All he needs is a friend to point it out to him. Like that!
Where did it come from?
Oh, you know the old story  the Hessian wagon train that was ambushed on the way to Saratoga. Some of the gold has been buried under your barn!
Yes, why shouldn't it?
Yes, of course, people forgot  or the men who knew about it died, you know how these things happen.
It's mine?
That's right, Mr. Stone  there is   just one little formality. I'd like your signature here  see. And when it's done  it's done for seven years. It's our usual form. Of course  we may be able to take up the question of a renewal in due time.
What does it mean here  about my soul?
Well, why should that worry you. A soul  a soul is nothing. Can you see it, smell it, touch it?  No!  Think of it  this soul  your soul  a nothing, against seven whole years of good luck! You will have money and all that money can buy. Upon my word, Neighbor Stone, if it weren't for my firm's reputation for generous dealing
No, no! Give it to me!
A pin, Neighbor Stone! I'm afraid, you'll have to prick your finger  but what's a little pain to a lucky man?
Excellent. A firm, fair signature. One that will last till doomsday. My dear Neighbor Stone, I congratulate you! You're going to be the richest man in New Hampshire!
Well, I'll be 
Yes, indeed. But not now. Not for seven years. Oh, I almost forgot  what is the date?
The seventh day of April 
1840. Well, that'll take us to the seventh day of April in 1847.
Good evening, Neighbor Stone.
Look here now
Oh come, Neighbor Stone. I wouldn't cut that tree if I were you. It means a breach of contract.
I don't care.
But you should, now that you are becoming a father.
Leave your tongue off of that!
Oh, certainly. I shan't even come to the christening  it would be tactless and in wretched bad taste. But I may send a friend of mine  just for old sake's sake. Yes, I might do that.
Why, Mr. Stone, you look so worried. Can I be of any service?
You promised me prosperity, happiness, love, money, friendship 
Just a minute, neighbor Stone. I promised you money and all that money can buy. I don't recall any other obligations. But let's look at the contract.
.... Miser Stevens' soul, Mr. Stone. Yes  I am sorry for the disturbance.
He ain't dead  he's dancing in there.
He was 
Are they all as  small  as that?
Small? Oh, I see what you mean. Why, they vary. Now a man like Daniel Webster, if I ever get hold of him, I'd have to build a special box for him and even at that, I imagine, the wing spread would be astonishing. In your case 
My time isn't up yet.
Trying to break our contract again, Mr. Stone?
I'm through with you.
What a headstrong fellow! Well  I guess you're quite prepared to suffer the consequences.
I have still a year  a year to make up for everything.
Oh no, you violated clause five of our contract and I could collect right now, if I chose.
Not now! Not now!  Let me make up  let me make up.
Suddenly you seem quite desperate, Mr. Stone   You know I'm a goodnatured man. I'm always open to reason. With a little security  I might
Anything  anything.  You can have it all back  that money  the new house  my farm  the whole caboodle!
I'm afraid that's hardly the sort of security I was thinking of  You see  there is that promising little fellow, your son ...
No! No! No! Not him  not my son  I'd rather go with you  right now.
Come, come, Mr. Stone, you are a little upset. It's not fair to bargain with you now.  I'll give you until midnight, Mr. Stone, but not one minute more. Ah, then you'll come with me indeed.
Well now, Mr. Stone, did you make up your mind?
About what?
Are you willing to give me your son in exchange for an extension of our contract?
Never!
Jabez Stone  did you or did you not sign this document?
Yes, I did  but you tricked me into signing it! You told me my soul was nothing ... that I could forget all about a soul, in exchange for money. That was a lie, a lie, a lie.
That is highly irrelevant to this case, Your Honor.
Yes  yes, I am the richest man  too rich. I can't think of anything but money. That's the trouble with me.
But, Mr. Stone, I am hardly to blame for the pricking of your wholly unnecessary conscience. Is this your signature?
You know darn well it is.
Gentlemen, the prosecution rests.
Stevens!
Well, Stone  have you got the money?
I barely managed to scrape up a bit for you. I thought if I made a kind of part payment 
No, Stone!
 in gold.
I'd like to know where you'd get it....
You know  some folks are just lucky. Others pick gold right out of the air. Like that!
Real! Sheriff, you are a witness that this money is paid me voluntarily, and while it does not satisfy the mortgage, it has become my property.
Doesn't satisfy, eh? Well  that's too bad....
Mornin', Jabez ...
Hello, Stevens ... you're early today.
Yes, I wanted to get here before the others.... I want to talk to you alone.
Some other time, Stevens.
Good evening  I'm sorry, Jabez  I'm a little late.
No, you're not.
Where's everybody?
I dunno  I can't figure it out. I've invited them all. Why don't they come?
Now run along, Daniel.
What a fine boy you have, Jabez. How old is he now?
Almost seven. No  no, he's not seven yet I am sure 
Well  it seems to me  I remember when you paid me
What's the matter with you?
You are afraid!
Afraid ... of what?
 of what happens after we die!
Are you plumb crazy, man! What do you think happens? We're buried  that's all.
But what becomes of our souls?
Why do you fret about something that isn't there?
Don't say that  I know it is 
All right  so it's buried with you!
What if one hasn't a soul any more? What of that?
Huh?  What's that? Well  what about it? Who cares, anyhow?
I do  and I think you should too.
Stevens  what's all this leading up to? You know something. Come on! Out with it  you know something about me!
You're not  Dorothy.
No. She's gone.
She couldn't be gone!
But she is  I've taken her place. Don't you remember  you wrote me a letter. Mrs. Stone was too ill.
Never mind. What's your name?
Belle.
Belle 
Loan shark  hey?
Too bad it didn't happen to Miser Stevens.
Are you one of old Stevens' customers too?
Sure am.
Yes, it's the debt and the lien and the mortgage that eats up the farmer!
Sure does. But I'll have to sleep on it a couple of nights.
That's fair enough, Jabez. Man's got a right to mull things over. We'll drive round again, week or so.
I am just thinkin'  now they mightn't like the idea down in Washington.
Why not! There's a bill up in Congress to give us a uniform law of bankruptcy. Daniel Webster is fighting for it right now
Black Dan'l?
What do you want?
Howdy, Mr. Stone. We've come round to ask you if you made up your mind to join the Grange?
What Grange?
That farmers' association  we were talking about the other day.
Well  we don't mean to force you, Jabez Stone  but  it's only for your own good.
I'll look out for myself! ... Now go away  leave me alone.
Jabez  will you join our Grange now?
Why, thank you, Tom. I was going to ask you if you thought I could.
We'll be mighty glad to have you with us.
Howdy, Jabez.
Howdy, Hank.
Kin you spare a moment for me Jabez?
Why, of course, Hank  I've always got time for a neighbor. What's on your mind?
Well  here's how it is ...Tom Sharp, Eli Higgins and a couple of others been talking to me about  that new sort of organization  grange they call it. What you think about it?
I don't know  don't seem much of an idea to me.
Yes, but what does a farmer do if he don't want to get roped in some more by them loan sharks?
Oh  you don't have to go to Miser Stevens while I'm around.
Don't I? ... Say, that's mighty white of you, Jabez.
Not at all, Hank ... not at all. Glad to help you.
Thanks, Jabez  I really wouldn't need very much ... if you could let me have some seed to start off with enough for spring planting ...
Say ... about the interest ...
Now don't you worry about that. You just leave it all to me. We won't talk business now ... just bear this in mind ... I'm not the man to get rich on other people's hard luck.... No, sir... not me! ...
Granny, when do we move to the new house?
Move?  We are not going to move  the old one is good enough for us.
But I like the new one better.
That's just too bad 
Lan's to goodness, what happened to that hen? Did you use that beanshooter again?
I did not, Grandma.
Grandma, look at me!
I see you! Riding pretty high, ain't you? Look out you don't fall off.
Not me!
Yes, you did, Daniel! I saw it from the window. And then to lie about it! Give me that beanshooter, Daniel!
It's mine, Ma! Pa made it for me  and I'm not going to give it to anyone!
Daniel give me that beanshooter!
No! No! I won't.
Daniel! ... I've stood just about as much as I can bear!
Daniel, you ought to be in bed.
No, no, I don't want to go to bed. I want to be here for the party.
Mama!
Daniel! ... You must go to sleep.
I don't want to be up there all alone, Mama.... I want to be with you.
All right, darling.
Hello, Colonel! Want a lift?
Well, I wouldn't mind. But my name's Daniel Stone.
All right, Daniel. Jump in.
Gee  that Fair 
It hasn't opened yet?
No  but I can hardly wait  Mister  tell me, will there really be   a man that eats fire?
Guess there will, if it says so.
And two unpara unparalleled Circassian beauties? What is that?
Young man  you got me there.
'N Daniel Webster will be there.
A varied list of attractions. And which would you like to see first, Dan'l?
I think I'd like to begin with the fireeater 
And what about Daniel Webster?
Well, I thought he'd come in the middle.
And serve him right!
Daniel! Don't ever let me catch you doing that again!
Why? It don't hurt.
It does hurt! And don't you do it again.
Make them go faster, Mr.... ?
No, Daniel  they are not race horses. They are good old friends of mine. I call 'em Constitution and Bill of Rights, the most dependable pair for long journeys. I've got one called Missouri Compromise, too, and then there's a Supreme Court  fine, dignified horse, though you do have to push him now and then.
Golly  I'd like to see all your horses!
Maybe you can, sometime, Daniel. I'm a farmer, you know, and like to show my farm  but the thing I'd like to show you most, you'll have to see for yourself.
What's that, sir?
Well  it's high and it's wide and it goes a long way and there is a wind blowing through it and a blue roof over it  it's the hills up here and the rivers running south and the new States growing in the West.
Anybody can see that.
You're wrong, Mr. Stone. There are people who live and die without e'er seeing it. They can't see the country for the money in their pockets  And some think their state's the country, or the way they live is the country, and they're willing to split the country because of that. Well, I hope you'll meet all those, when you're grown. You'll meet the fireeaters and the Circassian beauties  that's part of the fair, to be sure. But if we'd had to depend on them, in a permanent way, the country would have stopped at the Allegheny mountains.
But it didn't stop. I know it didn't stop. Granny told me it didn't.
No, siree, it didn't. And it won't  no matter what happens  just as long as the folks at the fair believe in freedom and Union. So  Giddyap, Constitution  and let's keep going, Mr. Stone.
Jabez  ?
I've brought you something to keep you warm, Mrs. Stone 
You're not resting well, are you? I know  it's that music. You need your sleep. Is there anything else you want?
No, thank you  what's your name?
Belle 
Thank you, Belle 
That's my business.  Now, it's all right, Daniel. What did he do?
He lied to me again.
I see why you're here  you knew that nobody was coming.
I didn't.
You're lying.
Lying to you  Why should I?
You know that you're in my house.
I know  and you could show me the door. You would, too, if you weren't still hoping the guests might arrive.
You think you're so smart, Mrs. Stone. You wanted to be near Jabez. It looked like your big chance tonight, but you're wrong, you can't win him back  not that way.
That's my problem, Belle.
Belle Dee. I'm from over the mountain.
From over the mountain 
I'll take it.
No  that's for me to do.
Let's dance together  Belle.
No, Jabez  your place is with your wife 
Golly, Belle, that was a good idea  we should do that every morning.
We will 
We'll cook 'em ourselves. You'll help me, Belle.
Of course I will.
The people, Jabez  the people.
The  folks or people, what's the difference among friends?
Hey, you! Watch out there  you're scuffing my Brussels carpet  Consarn them.
Jabez! Careful 
Oh  Didn't mean to talk like that in front of a lady. Get some wine for the Squire, Belle.
What are those people doing there? What do they want?
They're just outsiders. They want to see how fine Jabez Stone lives these days. They're waiting for your guests, too 
Who are these people?
They are all friends of mine  from over the mountain. Welcome! Help yourselves to drinks! Glad you could come! Have a good time.
Hi.
Hi.
Haven't seen you around. Where have you been all my life, handsome?
Funny. Would you like to buy me a drink?
This little thing says I can't.
You could always take it off.
It's stuck, but thanks for the offer.
Papers. Last Medcheck two weeks ago. A1. Disease free. Guaranteed by the State.
I don't care if you've got the Good Housekeeping seal of approval... I'm not looking for company.
You all right?
Yeah.
Seat's too high.
My mom says I'm gonna grow.
Yes.
My granddad was a policeman.
I'm going to be a policeman.
What's your name?
William Simpson. I like Willy.
Good to know you, Willy.
Bye. Thanks.
Remember, get the seat fixed.
Jesus, Sanchez... what do you think you're doin'? That's flatfoot data. You're not supposed to have access to that.
This is the guy that killed my partner.
You startin' a fan club or some thin'?
Says here one of our boys brought him down. You ever heard of a badge named Wade?
Demolition Man.
What's it mean?
You never want to find out.
Take a look at this.
He had a partner. Our own Ray Gallagher. He tagged Wade dangerously defiant. Psychotic. Reckless. Seems our Commissioner didn't like him much. Busted his buns on a narcotic's violation. Wade was sentenced to twentyfive years.
He went dirty and they made an example of him.
But he was such a good cop.
They always are.
Well I've got news for you. This dirty cop was the <u>only cop</u> who could bag Doucet.
You my partner?
Officer Hector Sanchez, Sergeant. Hillside Academy. Status G8. Security Clearance 3. One year Advance Technical Crime Analyst. Weapons Assistant. FDA Junior Captain, Hollywood division
Are you a cop?
Yes.
Well, that's good enough for me.
I drive.
Commissioner Gallagher gave me specific orders not to let you drive until you refamiliarize yourself with the process and territory.
I'm ready.
But Sergeant...
Give me a break, Sanchez. It's like riding a bike.
Does it drive itself, too?
You have to use the steering wheel to turn. The pedal for gas...
Got it. Ejection seat?
Whoa. Don't touch that. <u>Pursuit</u> <u>Mode</u>. Auto pilot. Computerized steering and driving system used in high speed pursuits. Installed Fall 2006. Underground rumor has it they modeled it after you, sir.
Lean year for role models.
I have to go home, Sanchez.
Commissioner Gallagher said... ...twenty years is a long time.
No offense, but why'd they partner me with a rookie?
Doucet killed my partner.
See those guys?
Technothugs.
They're going to rob that bank.
How do you know?
Some things never change.
I'll inform dispatch.
There's no time. There are civilians in there. It's about to go down.
We don't know that for sure. We'll have to wait until they move.
Well, I'm sure. You're a cop. I'm a cop. Let's do what cops do.
You can't turn him off. He's the Commissioner.
I'm not fond of television comedies.
Wanna come?
My insurance won't cover it.
Thanks. Want'a bite? McDonald's vegiroll.
Pass.
Can I ask you something?
Yes.
When you're frozen, you're legally dead, right?
Then what goes on in there? What I mean is, what are you thinking about?
Bacon cheeseburgers.
Give me a break. I'm serious. What's it like to be dead?
Trust me. You don't want to know.
Hey, buddy...
Relax, let technology do the work.
NPA metamorphosis should biologically slow him down. That's when we'll get him.
You can't catch this man with a computer.
How then?
You don't follow the bodies, and you don't follow procedure. You do it by instinct. Think like him. Do what has to be dane.
Sir, I took the liberty of running a GCI scenario on a TM1 earlier today...
GCI. TM1. What language are you talking?
I also PVC'd you. Youngest Officer promoted to Sergeant. Two CMs. Four honor medals...
Drop it.
Why?
I was set up.
You're saying you were put away for a crime you didn't commit?
'Bout the same time I busted Doucet I tried to nail this bigtime dealer. I didn't have an ID, but I was close. Too close. Gained the confidence of a badass named Dubbs. He was going to turn me onto the big man. He made me for a cop. Mysteriously my fellow officers discovered ten pounds of heroin in my cruiser.
It doesn't make sense. Who would want to do that to you?
Nothing makes sense when you're a cop.
Married?
Engaged. Plan on doing it this summer. You still married?
Yeah. Least I think so. Twenty six years this March.
What's this place?
This is where I found Doucet twenty years ago. Thought maybe he'd come back.
Yeah.
Hey, Rip Van Winkle, maybe we'd better call it a night.
She's pretty.
Thanks.
You need anything else?
I'll be okay.
Good night, Wade.
Good night.
I'll have a cup of coffee?
Never use it. Stuff'll kill ya.
No. Talk English. Then I'll understand.
We get to peek into Doucet's brain.
Hey, I'm eating.
I'm serious, Wade. This case is important to me.
You want to be a good detective?
Yes, sir.
Then find me some cigarettes.
Two lousy smokes. You're a real sport.
That cost me two weeks' pay.
Maybe I should turn myself in.
Lighten up. You're going to give yourself an ulcer.
Part of Doucet's cerebellum, a portion called the vermis is under developed. This area rates response to outside stimuli. Com pare it to that of a normal law abiding citizen. It could be why he kills.
Great. My partner's Marcus Welby.
I'm just doing it by the book. Analyze then vaporize. Crime's a science. Everything's analyzed.
With all this technology you don't even have to show up for work. Who needs cops when you've got gizmos.
You're just afraid to use this. You have technophobia, Wade. That's what you got.
Wanna try?
No thank you, sir. Smoking causes lung cancer, heart disease, emphysema, and may complicate pregnancy.
You're not pregnant, are you?
No, sir.
Let's roll. We got a guy who swears his car was stolen by a suspect identical to Doucet. 0800 this morning.
What else did he get?
Wallet, cash, I.D...
Fire up that thing of yours and tell me all credit card trans actions after eight o'clock.
Kid, you ever been in a high speed chase before?
Simulated one.
Get us some fuck'n backup now!
<u>Comwatch Dispatch System</u>. Can't assimilate voice stress. Code priority only.
Rip Van Winkle.
How ya feeling?
How do I look?
Not too good.
What's this?
We're partners, aren't we?
Sanchez...?
I'm here.
You treat her nice.
...What are you talking about...?
Your girl. Being a cop will be rough on her.
...Have you been drinking?
Not yet.
Yeah.
This should make your day. The guy who testified against you... Dubbs... was arrested a total number of twenty four times.
So, he's got a thing for prison clothes.
That's just it. He never did time. Seems each arrest was botched for one reason or another. Judge threw out the cases each time. Either he's got a horseshoe up his ass or powerful friends.
You okay?
Aaah... Mother of Jesus.
What is it? Your legs? Hands?
Hospital food.
What are you doing this for, Sanchez?
If you were set up, I want to find out who did it.
I just heard.
He's got my grandson, Sanchez.
You be careful.
I'm signing off.
No. I want to be with you.
No you don't.
You should be in hospital.
And you should be with your family.
Need help?
I got it. I got it.
You sure? I can help you.
Ah Mom, you're embarrass'n me.
Nobody's looking.
Go in the house.
Maybe I should put on the training whe
Not the 'T' word.
Ooops, I forgot.
Sir, your dinner with the union leaders begins in an hour. Your wife will meet you there, so we can leave whenever you're ready.
Fine.
I've also drafted a letter to families of officers killed in the line of duty. They'll need your signature.
Sir, your limo's here.
Kill me if you want. Hard line me with that 'I ain't got nothing to lose' bullshit. But you've got plenty to lose 'partner'. You've got a family. I'm giving you a chance to see them. I kept in touch. She never married. All these years. Maybe she loves you. I wouldn't know why.
You okay?
How do I look?
Aces.
Okay, that's all folks. Commissioner Gallagher has to go.
Keep 'em busy.
Sir
Shut up! Drop it.
What do you mean he's escaped?! They're not supposed to escape!
It's a real mess down here. Some thing must a'gone wrong. No man could possess that kind of strength after being frozen for twenty years.
Tell Doucet that. What was his rehabilitation training?
Telephone repairman.
Just great.
NPA syndrome will hit 'im fast. Have your men gear up the Edicon system at a twentyyear ratio in fractions of fives. Saying a prayer won't be bad either.
I don't want any press on this. I've got an election to win day after to morrow.
That's not your zone. Stick to data entry.
I was part of the escort team that reanimated him. My partner's dead because of this guy.
Wade's in CryoPrison.
He could be brought back.
Kill him... kill him.
Simon Doucet. You are under arrest. Please come out with your hands in the air.
Doucet's just offed two of the jurors who put him away. I'm rounding up the rest of them and putting them in police custody. What's your status?
We seem to've come across a 211, sir.
Forget it. Stick to the program.
You two fucks listen up. Doucet's killing people and you're wasting valuable time busting twobit Technothugs.
But sir, Sergeant Wade saved the hostages.
I'm thrilled beyond belief.
Sir, your transmission's fading.
What the hell are you talking about?
You have no evidence. Arrest this man.
You want evidence. I'll give you evidence.
Looks like you did more than jackoff while I was gone.
Maybe reanimating you wasn't such a bright idea. You look like shit.
Shucks, and I got all dressed up.
Twenty years have passed, Wade. Lay it to rest.
I was set up and you know it... but you swore under oath I was dirty. You helped bury me.
Jury found you guilty, not me. I just called it as I saw it. Fuck that. You were brought here for a reason. Doucet's escaped. Reanimated for his parole hearing. Killed a lot of people. Most of them cops.
I'm not on the force anymore.
Well, you've just been taken off the bench.
I want to see my wife and kid.
Later. I want Doucet first.
I told you. I'm out of the cops and robbers business. Retired twenty years ago. I've been trained as a bus driver. Got a whole route planned and everything. Even nailed down the lingo  '<u>Exact change, please</u>'.
I'm going to bring this down hard. I've got an A1 badass killer loose, an election day after tomorrow, and I'm risking everything on you. You're going to bring him in. I don't care how. If you do, you'll get your freedom. An official pardon from me. A clean slate. A good job. A chance to get back with your family. If you don't want to, I'll put your ass back in the freezer so fast, you'll forget you were ever defrosted.
What's this?
Fill it out. Standard issue mal practice insurance. All Cops carry it.
Mug sheets.
I remember what he looks like. I can't forget.
Edicon system made these. Ages, photographs. We use it to find missing children.
He's not that old yet. You've lost confidence in me.
No, but he's going to be by tomorrow. He's aging. 'Bout the entire twenty years lost while being frozen in fortyeight hours. In that time he'll be an old man. Could be a year, an hour, or all at once. Called NPA Syndrome. Natural Pro gression of Aging. It affects each individual differently. I'm sure it's painful.
You sonofabitch. How do you stop it?
We have an antidote that'll retard the aging process.
Give it to me.
When you bring in Doucet.
The faster you get Doucet, the younger you'll be.
I'm going to kill you when this is all over.
You're working a partner on this.
I've been alone for twenty years. I don't feel very sociable.
Hello Wade.
Out of the room.
Tell Frick and Frack that means them too.
I'll be alright.
You can't kill me. I'm going to be Mayor tomorrow.
I'm not voting for you.
Ah, fuck you, Wade. This is bull shit. You're not going to kill me. You're not going to risk your freedom.
I want to stop aging.
And I want Doucet.
This is a war, Wade. You against him. Vengeance time. The City's just in the way. Kill the fucker. You and me. We'll work things out when the time is right.
Remember my promise.
Don't threaten me. I tend to take these things seriously. And get a couple hours sleep. You look like day old shit.
Got compliments coming outta your ass, don't ya?
Just got the call. Took him from school. Bastard nailed the Vice Principal and a teacher.
Where?
I'm wasting time.
You can't win like this. You'll only get older. This is what you wanted!
Not anymore.
What is it? I'm about to go on.
We have to talk.
I heard about today. Good job. I'm all for capital punishment. Why don't you go home and see your family?
That wasn't your plan, was it?
What are you talking about?
You were planning to send me back to the ice house. You set me up.
You're crazy.
<u>You</u> were the dirty cop... and I was on to you. You panicked. Afraid I was going to expose you... so you shut me up.
I don't want to hear anymore.
You stole the heroin out of the evidence room and planted it on me. I was iced. What better way to keep me from talking. Stop me if I'm wrong.
Who is it?
Avon Lady!
My man Dubbs.
Who are you? What the fuck do you want?
I want to ask you a few questions.
No, you're not model material. Anything else?
Funny guy.
Fuck you  fuck you.
You helped set up my partner, Sergeant William Wade. I want to know who put you up to it.
Your mother.
Speak up.
It was Wade's old partner... Gallagher. He was behind it all.
I worked for him... still do. Said he'd make sure I was left alone if I helped put Wade away. He kept his promise for twenty years.
Prepare for a change in lifestyle.
It was Wade's old partner... Gallagher. He was behind it all.
Put that on your political resume.
Michael called yesterday. He wants to take Willy for the summer.
What did you say?
I'd think about it.
Mr. Murphy asked about you again at work yesterday.
He just wants me to make him cinnamon cookies like I made for you.
I think he wants more than your cookies.
Kimberly!
Mom, I hate to break this to you, but there's a whole other species out there you're neglecting. If you've forgotten, they're called 'men'. Sometimes referred to in more colorful language.
Looks like ya gonna take office just in time, Chief. Things need straightening up in this city.
What'cha got, Bennett?
Witnesses say some wacko went Judge hunting with a late model. I got an artist working on a computer composite now.
Technothugs?
No chance. Not their sector. They ain't even into things this big. Our zoneboy's performing out of a horror show. Something else. Unit nine found a couple cold ones in Hollywood. One Manny Turner. Gun runner. Sounds like a connection to me.
I can smell it.
That's him. Simon Doucet.
Jesus. Sweet Jesus. We've got trouble.
This monster escaped from Cryo Prison this morning.
Well, he's sure working fast ain't he?
I want this bastard brought down.
Yeah?
Wade's here.
Talk fast. Polls open in half an hour.
Wade did a little reminiscing.
Up I would say... What would you say?
Up.
Up ribbon!
Down I would say... What would you say?
Down.
Down ribbon!
Up a little there... What would you say?
Up.
He's getting married... and we're nuts!
It's all right. Hey, it's all right. We'll be right here, right with you.
How're you guys... I mean, how've you guys been?
Same old thing. Hey, same like always. Nothing's changed. Albert is getting fat.
Well, who'd you get married to?
Aw, it's a long story!
Cynthia! Sure.
That's who.
Cynthia! Hey, that's terrific. I mean... Great! That's really great!
What the hell's that for?
What's it for??
How's it feel, huh? How's it feel to be back?
Great. Feels great... Fuckin' A!
I mean, I guess you still think about Nam. Right? I mean 
Naw. Uhhuh.
Hey, Nick, you ever do it with one of those slants?
No.
No!
Never one.
Oh, Jesus! You're kiddin'!
One, Vince... you have to understand, doing it with one... would be... like nothing. They're small, see, so if you're smart you get about six or eight. I mean, if you want to have any fun.
Six or eight. And they go wild?
They have these little sticks, Vince. They call them "chomp chomps", and when you get these girls going, you have to stick 'em in their mouths.
You're full of shit!
Yeah.
And I believed you! I oughta punch you out! I oughta...! Hey. Hey, let's go huntin'! Albert! Hey, Albert! Let's go huntin'. What do you say? Nick? What do you say?
Sure.
Just like always! Just like it always was! Right, Nick? Am I right?
In the timeless words of Squire Albert...
What the hell was that! What did you think? Did you think it was loaded!
You loaded it, Vince! I saw you!
The fuck I did!!!
The fuck you didn't!... Gimme that!
Quiet!... Quiet!!!... Awright, everybody, Nick has a few words.
I just... would like to say a few words... about Merle. I guess Merle always wanted something... I don't know... better. That fucking guy, he saved my Life. He saved Sal's... What Merle liked, he liked things right... But then there wasn't any place for that... that he could find.
Where's Vince?
There's Albert! Hey, Albert!!!
Not tonight?... You're not driving up tonight?
As soon as you're hitched, Sal. First we get you hitched.
You guys are crazy. You know that? I mean you guys are really nuts.
Don't worry what it says in the book.
Right.
Just forget that. Forget what it says in the book.
I'm gonna start slow... At the top. Then I'm gonna work down.
Great. That's great.
That's my plan.
See you Monday.
See you Monday.
Sal? Sal, it's me, Nick.
Nick. Hey. How's things?
Oh. You know. How's it with you?
Same. Hey. Same old stuff.
What's that noise?
What?
What's that noise?
John Wayne... Listen, Nick 
Great. Hey. That's great.
Listen, Nick 
John Wayne's great... Listen, Sal. Jesus. When are you getting out?
I'm gonna stay here, Nick.
What?
Place is great. Really. One great place... Basketball, bowling. You name it. Canasta. Hearts. Lots of guys are making salad bowls. What I'll do is make a salad bowl for you, unless you'd rather have a pencil holder. The pencil holder's neat, I mean 
Wait a minute. Sal. Hold it. John Wayne's making so much noise I can hardly 
I gotta get back, Nick.
Sal, we need you. We need you.
Hey, Nick. How can you need me?
We do, Sal. We do... You're the heart.
Sal, you're gonna die! You're gonna sit in that corner watching soaps and you're gonna die!... I'm not saying it's gonna be the same. It's not gonna be the same, but whatever it's gonna be we're all gonna do it, Sal. God damn it we are! We are gonna do it!
Nick. I'm so scared. I'm so fuckin' scared to go home.
I know. It's like coming from the moon. Or Mars.
Did you go hunting.
Yeah.
Did you get one?
No.
You didn't get a deer?
I tracked this one, a big buck. God, he was such a beauty! What's this suitcase here?
Where?
Here. Behind you.
Maybe you could use socks, Nick. Jesus, I mean, come to think of it socks are pretty expensive now.
It's not socks, Sal.
It's Merle, Sal.
Merle? ... Merle's alive? How do you know?
I saw him last night. I thought I was dreaming. I thought I was out of my mind.
Merle gave me this?
Yeah.
But, Nick... Hey, I mean, where would a guy like Merle get money like this?
Oh cards, maybe. Poker... It's getting cold, Sal. I'm going to take you in. We'll call Angela. The guys can help her bring you home... Did I tell you I was going on a trip?
Trip? What do you mean, Nick? You said you'd be 
It's okay. Hey, it's okay! Just a week. Just to see Phantom Mary.
Phantom Mary?
Didn't I ever tell you about Phantom Mary?
No.
Well... Phantom Mary's on my mother's side. Naturally no one there admits it because Phantom Mary's pretty weird... You want to hear the whole story?
Yeah!
Like I say, Phantom Mary's pretty weird... Lives alone, lives way out in the middle of nowhere with a cat called Pajamas and a cow called Fred. Well, last week I got a call from Phantom Mary, which in itself was very strange...
Bullshit! That's bullshit!
You wanna bet?
I'll betcha! That's bullshit and I'll betcha! You're fulla shit!
How much? How much do you wanna bet?
Here, here! This is it!
Watch it, shithead!
Here! This is it!
Sure I got boots. I got boots right here.
Then lemme have 'em.
No.
No!!!?
No.
What do you mean, no???
That's it. No. No way.
Some fuckin' friend... You're some fuckin' friend, Merle!
You gotta learn, Vince! You come out here... You got no jacket, you got no pants, you got no knife and you got no boots. You think everyone's gonna take care of you! That's what you always think, but this time you're wrong. This time you're on your own!
You're one fuckin' bastard, Merle. You know that? You're one fucking bastard!
This is this, Vince. This isn't something else. This is this!
You know what I think? There's times I think you're a goddamn faggot!... I fixed you up a million times, Merle! I fixed him up a million times! I don't know how many times I fixed him up... and nothin' ever happens... Zilch! Zero!... The trouble with you, Merle, no one knows what you're talking about! "This is this"? What does that mean, "this is this"? I mean is that some faggot bullshit, or is that some faggot bullshit!!! And if it isn't, what the hell is it???
Humper's ready. Old humper's hotter'n damn hell!
There's Vince!
Won't we? Right? Am I right?
Right.
You should have put that on last night.
I know.
That way it sets.
Yeah.
I just wait. You know?
Huh?
I just wait. For this... It's what I wait for... I wait all year.
So do I.
You do?
Yeah.
You think about it?
Yeah.
So do I. I want to be ready... You have to be ready... It has to be there, in your mind.
The shot?
Fucking A.
I don't think about the shot that much.
You have to think about the shot. It's the shot. The shot's it.
Yeah... I guess.
What do you think about?
I don't know... I guess I think about the deer... Being out, maybe. I don't know. I think about it all. Hell, I like the trees, you know? I like the ways the trees are, all the different ways the trees are too.
I'll tell you something, Nick. I wouldn't hunt with anyone but you. I won't hunt with a yoyo.
Yoyo! Who's a yoyo?
Who's a yoyo...? Who do you think's a yoyo! They're all yo yo's. I mean they're all great guys, for Christ's sake, but... The point is, Nick, without you I'd hunt alone. Seriously. I would. That's what I'd do.
You're a fucking nut. You know that, Merle? You're a fucking maniac!
Yeah. When it comes to hunting, that's true.
Nick, he just came back.
From Nam?
Fucking A. See that ribbon in the left. That's Quan Son. That fucking guy was at Quan Son!
What'd he say?
Pow.
Pow?
Pow.
Oh.
Is he from here?
Hell no!
Well, where's he from?
You think we'll ever come back?
From Nam?
Yeah.
I love this fuckin' place... That sounds crazy. I know that sounds crazy, but I love this fuckin' place... If anything happens, Nick, don't leave me there. I mean it. Don't leave me... You gotta promise, Nick. You gotta promise me that.
Merle 
Promise! You gotta promise!
You got it.
It's ahead, by the tree.
It's ahead, Vince.
Hey, Nick?
Huh?
Tomorrow I go with Vince.
Hunt with Vince?
Yeah... I mean so he knows... He doesn't even know.
I'm telling you, Nick, no one's going to come.
What are you, God?
Listen, asshole, it's up to us!
They bombed last night, right? Didn't they bomb? If they bombed last night, they could bomb tonight. They could be up there right now!
What are you, hoping?
What else?
I thought you might be praying.
I'm doing that too.
I suppose you wish you were somewhere else?
What do you think?
Nick, you're wasting your time... Listen to me! You're wasting your time! This is no fucking time for hoping or praying or wishing or any other shit! This is it. Here we are... And we gotta get out!
You're right... Okay, you're right.
Get off your ass, Nick. Get off your fucking ass and stand up!!!
Okay, okay! Okay. Okay, you're right... What about Sal?
Forget Sal.
What do you mean?
I mean forget Sal... Sal can't take it, Nick.
Forget Sal?
Forget Sal... Listen to me  forget Sal! I've been working on Sal since dawn, Nick. Sal's in a dream and he won't come out. LISTEN!!! From here on you gotta go for you. You hear me? For you!
Merle...
LISTEN, NICK! GET IT THROUGH YOUR HEAD OR YOU AND ME ARE BOTH DEAD TOO!
We gotta play with more bullets.
We what?
We gotta play with more bullets, Nick. It's the only way.
More bullets in the gun?
More bullets in the gun... The trouble is that still leaves one of us with his hands tied up, so that means we gotta play each other.
With more bullets?... Against each other?... Are you crazy!!! Are you fucking nuts!!!
Nick... NICK!!! It's the only chance we've got!
How many bullets?
Three bullets  minimum.
No way. No fucking way!
I'll pick the moment, Nick. The game goes on until I move. When I start shooting, go for the nearest guard and get his gun.
No. No way!
When you get the AK, open up. You got me? Open up.
YOU'RE CRAZY!!!... NO WAY!... NOW YOU'RE CRAZY!!! YOU'RE COMPLETELY CRAZY!!!
Merle...! Jesus! Hey, how are you?
Nick!... I thought you went home.
I did. I... This is stolen. I came back.
Sit down.
How's Linda?
Fine. She's fine... Merle, what the hell are you doing?
I like it, Nick.
Merle... Hey, Merle, listen... Why?
Who the hell is he?
Who the hell knows!
You can do it, Sal.
No. No, no.
Sal... listen to me, Sal! You have to do it.
I want to go home, Merle.
You have to think about this, Sal. Listen to me, Sal! You have to think about this.
This is horrible!
Listen to me, Sal. If you don't do it they'll put you in the pit. If they put you in the pit, Sal, you're gonna die... Sal, do you understand?
Merle, I wanna go home!
Merle?
Right here.
Where are we going, Merle? Are we going home?
Right here.
Sal! Sal... Goddamn it, Sal, don't you know anything?
Where are we going, Merle? Are we going home?
Sure. Sure, Sal. We're going home.
You seem... disturbed.
I... No. You do this for money?
Mais certainment... A great deal of money. Naturally I do not do it myself. I myself do not possess the nerve. But I am always... how do you say... looking out for those who do... It is a thing quite rare. Champagne perhaps? Tch, tch. Don't say no. When a man says no to champagne, he says no to life and that no man must ever do. Where did you play?
Up north.
Ah yes. Of course... So few survive. La creme de la creme... How did you obtain release?
Playing.
Playing?
We... Three bullets.
And then you...
How extremely clever. That is really most extraordinaire... Allow me please to introduce myself. I am Armand... And you are?
Nick.
Linda...
Hi. Nick, your shoes are soaking.
Linda, what's the matter?
Oh... You know...
I was just wondering... Nick... You're going hunting... If I could use this place to stay, because...
Sure. Are you kidding? Sure.
I'd want to pay you... and I was thinking 
Linda... Hey, Linda...
I would want to pay you, Nick... and I was thinking 
Linda, Linda...!
What?
Will you marry me?
Okay.
Would you?
I don't know what we've been waiting for!
I don't know! I don't know either!
Sit with Linda, man, will ya?... Give her a beer. Would you like a beer?
Sure.
What kind of beer would you like?
I don't know.
Give her Miller's. Miller's High Life.
I thought... Oh, Nick, I thought you were hurt, some accident. Maybe you fell or maybe some car... I thought someone stole you away!
No.
Oh, Nick! Oh I missed you so!
How are you?
Fine. I'm fine. How are you?
Fine. I just go along, you know. Down at the market. Back here. I mean it just seems there's a million things to do!... Are you sure you're all right? I mean, what about the wound?
That was nothing. That wasn't anything.
But 
It was just the complications. I mean, you take a little thing over there and then you get complications. I mean all the guys had it.
I made you a sweater. Here... You have to take that off.
How's the trailer?
Great. Fine... Once or twice it did fall off the blocks. I don't know what that's from.
Frost.
Is that what it is? I couldn't figure out.
Did you get hurt? You didn't get hurt?
Oh, no. It just kind of goes thump. Would you like a Coke? You don't drink Coke. Or maybe you do. What about champagne? Let's have champagne! I don't think we have champagne. Let's have this. See? Sparkling. I'll get you an opener. Oh, that's right. No opener. Let's just have beer. Do you want some cheese? Or maybe eggs? Maybe we should have coffee.
Nick?... I just want to say how sorry I am about Sal and about Merle. How... I know you loved them and I know it's not the same. I mean now.
Naw, it's... I mean...
Maybe... I don't know, if you want to talk 
Naw, it's... This guy wants his money.
Does this... I mean, how does this job work out?
Oh, it's great. Fine.
Nooo!
I'll kill 'em. Anybody bothers you, I'll kill 'em!
Nick. It's okay... It's okay. I have to go now.
Nick?
Right here.
What are you doing?
Oh. Nothing... Sitting.
You're going hunting?
What?
I see you're going hunting.
Yeah... All the guys, we're all going huntin'. Like we did. You know? Like we always used to.
That's wonderful. I think you should... fresh air.
Linda... Honey, what's wrong?
I don't know.
Hey. Look. There must be something.
I'm just so lonely.
C'mon. I've got the car.
I'll be out... Just leave me. I'll be out. I'm fine. Really. I'm fine.
Biederman! Where's Biederman!
Here.
You Biederman?
Biederman, yes.
I got you on this flight, Biederman. Is that right?
Please! Please mister, please! This is vital I go to Saigon. This is very important. Most important.
Listen, Biederman, I'm going to club you into the floor unless you tell me what the fuck is so important.
That I must not tell you. Top secret. You see there. Topmost secret.
Biederman!
I will not betray my country. No. Never!
Nick! Hey, Nick! Boy! Boy oh boy! Are you okay? You're okay, huh?
Fine. Hey, I'm fine.
Sit down. Here. Right here. Albert! Vince!
Rough, huh?
Rough. We didn't have to do it, John.
No?
No. How's Angela? How's she taking it?
Not so good.
No?
Worse since she talked to him.
Sal.
Talked to Sal? Sal's alive?
Kind of. You didn't know?
Sal's alive???
Why?... What do you mean?... Why???
Nick, she won't say why.
But Sal's mother! What about Sal's mother!
She's out of her tree, Nick. She is straight out of her tree.
Oh, Jesus.
Hey, guys...
Shhh! Albert's gonna hump the Coup de Ville.
Look at that, see... Watch. Wait a minute, watch. There! D'j'u see that? D'j'u see the way he... You know what that guy is doing? That guy is squeezing her ass!
Oh, well...
Oh well! What do you mean Oh well?! The guy is actually... He did it again! That's what he's doing... He... He's reaching in, John, to her ! I'll kill him! I'm gonna kill him right now.
Get 'em! For Christ sake, get 'em!
Who's got the ammo?
Holy shit!
Merle, hey Merle, you got any socks?
Vince. Hey, you guys 
Take last night...! Last night he coulda had twenty fuckin' deer! More! He coulda had more! And look what he does! I mean look what he fuckin' does!!!
Vince!!!
Hey, Nick...
Nick, we don't know where Sal is... Nick, Angela won't tell us.
'Course how could you miss, right? Twenty, maybe thirty feet. I mean, if I'd'a been where you guys were 
Psst. Vince!
Where's it gone?
Inside, Vince.
Those fuckin' niggers. This time I'm going to eat balls!... You ever try 'em?
Naw.
Not bad fresh, but they don't keep worth a pig's fart.
Boy, do I love this conflict. Huh?... What the hell were you doin' in there?
You know a guy named Merle?
Merle? That's who we're looking for. Merle.
Yeah?
Sure! I got eight hundred potatoes says he goes one more... He retired, you know.
Yeah?
Now he's back.
She's in back.
Thanks.
How was huntin'?
Oh. Fine.
Get anything?
No.
Too bad.
I love Linda, see. I love Linda more than I can even say.
Everybody love Linda.
That's right. That's exactly what I mean!
I love Linda. Myself, I love Linda so much!
Only,good people love Linda, see. What Linda has, Linda 
How you like to have nice fuck with Linda? You like that? Special, crazy fuck just like with Linda?
You mean...?
I show you. Come. You come. Linda have special, crazy fuck. That right?
You like to call me Linda now?
Linda, yeah.
You call me Linda, just like home.
Wait! First I give you special fuck!
Elephants! Make way... I gotta get elephants!
I have to go.
But you must come in.
No, I 
But I insist.
I have to go.
You are frightened, no?
See, I'm going home.
Ah yes. Of course. To the girl who waits.
Yeah... Do you mind if I sit?
But of course! Please make yourself comfortable. Perhaps you would enjoy some fresh caviar, or une petite glace, or ?
No. None of that.
Unfortunately I must now go in, but I leave you my card. Naturellement I pay my players cash American. Just so you know.
C'est tres amusant... You have been promoted. And to a Jew... I am joking of course. Naturellement. Seriously, Nick, may I hope that you have come to play?
I came to see Merle.
Ah. Merle. And you know Merle?
Yeah.
You are his friend.
Where is he???
Merle is under his tree... Beside the terrace. You can't miss him.
You're back.
Yeah.
I'm glad. Seriously... I'm very glad.
Angela, I just heard Sal was alive.
Sure. Why not.
Where? Where is he?
Nick, he's fine. He's in a hospital and they're fixing him up.
You talk to him?
Oh, sure... Twice a day.
What hospital is he in? Where?
Nick... Sal is very weak. He suffered a severe wound... and right now he doesn't want a whole lot of people to get involved in a whole thing.
Hey, Angela, Sal and I go back a long way.
He doesn't want people bugging him, Nick!
Did you ever think life would turn out like this?
No.
You know what Sal's got now?... Sal's got... one arm, Nick, and... that's it.
Albert! For Christ's sake... John! Wait a minute, you guys!
It won't open.
You gotta hit it here. Here, Albert, not there.
Where should I hit it? Just show me where I should hit it.
Here. Hit it here.
That's new, isn't it?
Couple of weeks... Listen 
I love this car. Some cars sit, you know? This car, a car like this... grows. I mean you never know, with a car like this, where this car has been.
Wheeuu!
Jesus!
I got delayed. I 
Hey, Nick! God damn!... What've you been doin', I mean...
Look who's talkin'! Jes'! He got married! Vince got married!
Married?
Tell him, Vince.
He's serious. Vince is fuckin' serious!
You mean...?
Fucking A.
Worse since she talked to who?
He's real bad, Nick.
Well, where the hell is he!!! I mean what are we all sitting here for!!! WHAT THE HELL IS THIS???
Nick...
Nick! Nick, you'll kill him!... Easy. Nick, easy! Hey, hey. Vince goes back a long way.
Yeah.
Damn right!
What do you think, Sal? Jesus, you think we'd miss this?
And we want you to know, Sal, that any help you might need
Yeah, Sal
Ammo! Get the ammo!
I'll get it! Where is it?
It is not!
It is too! Now you passed it!
This is it. Definitely. This is it, but they changed it.
You're full of shit.
Who's full of shit?
You're full of shit!
I'm telling you, they changed it!
They did not!
They did too!
Jesus, it's freezing!
I thought that was it.
So he's in the next one, Albert. I mean take it easy. I mean you're driving everybody nuts!
It's gotta be the next one. I mean it's gotta be! Right, Albert?
Fuckin' A. It's gotta!
It's gotta!
What the !
It's Nick!
Nick...? Jesus, Nick!
Where the hell were you? We were all set  beer, broads. Right? Am I right?
Yeah.
Fuckin' guy's been shooting slants, Albert! I mean, what do you think?
I know, but...
What do you think? You think he's been picking flowers? Fuckin' guy's been saving your ass, Albert. Everybody's ass! Even in Europe!
Yeah. Oh, boy, yeah... Jes', you must be tired.
Tell him, Vince!
Well... you remember Cynthia?
Hey, Nick, I mean... This here is for the guy that gets caught!
Vince thinks... you know...
Let's go!!!
Hey! Fuckin' A! Time to roll!!!
You're full of shit, Vince! You're so full of shit you're going to float away!
Who? Who is?
You, Vince! You! You are! You're a crock! You're a walking, talking crock!... I mean, what do you know?
I know! I fuckin' know!
You don't!
I do!!!
I'm tellin' you she does it, Vince! With twenty guys you know!
She does not!
Then what's the gun for! What's this for?
In case!!! The gun's in case!!!
In case???!!! In case of what? In case you stumble on her, suckin' cock in the front fucking hall?!
She might!!! She might do it, Albert, but you can't fuckin' tell me that she does!!!
She does, Vince! That's what I'm telling you! She does!!!
She fucked you?
She fucked me.
She fucked me too.
She fucked you?
She fucked me too.
She fucked us both.
Yeah.
Fucking women, man...
I know...
Fuel up. Need fuel.
Those are mine!
You want 'em?
Damn right!
Gimme a Hostess Twinkie, Merle.
That's mustard!
What?
You just put mustard on your Hershey bar.
Good... Pass the beer.
I'll get the boots.
Get the boots.
I mean let's get going before 
Maxie! Hey Maxie wha'd'ya say!
Hey Geraldine, let's eat!
Here. Here we go. Here's to you, Nick!
Fuckin' A!
Yes, Albert?
John,we're going huntin'.
Who's going?
We're all going.
Nick's going?
Nick, Vince, Albert and John.
No women?
Here's to huntin'.
Hey! Fuckin' A!
Sweet! Oh, that is sweet!
Hey! Fuckin' A! Just... just like a hot shit... except cold.
Maybe it's the wrong ship.
Shut up!
Hey! What are you trying to pull!
John...
Why don't you help us so we can get done faster so we can get the hell out of here?
'Cause grease monkey ain't in my job description dick head...
Don't shoot, man, don't shoot!
What happened to Vivo?! What the hell happened to Vivo?
What's there to think about?? That THING back there...
There ain't no thing here!! No thing!! There's you him and me!! Got it! You him and...
You know what my goal is? Before I die I want to make love to a woman from every country on earth.
You mean countries that are acknowledged by the UN...or like made up countires too?
What the hell does that mean?
Like Mamooli's country...
I thought the plan was we'd evacuate them after we got through.
Maybe plans changed...
Plans don't change...
What was that?
Nothing.
Someone's back there.
Hey! Come out here!
Check it out!
Hey! You hear me? Come out!
I'm not screwing around with you man...I hate the cold water.
What is it man?
I'm looking...
Or maybe not.
Where is everybody?
I mean...where is everbody?
Poolside?
You tell it straight or I pull the trigger. Who are you?
A passenger...
Where are you going?
Nowhere...
Why don't you back off?
You want some too?
Can we use our indoor voice please...
I'm flying blind here God damn it!
If I told you once...I told you a thousand times...
I know...I know...if the cash is there we don't care... Finnegan this is as mean a pile of shit as we ever carried...
Here's what I think...I think these mokes below are a hit sqaud.
I saw these guy perform...at Altmont ...you know that? They opened for the Stones...
...Jagger was here...I was here...
You don't give a shit about anything do you?
Sure I do...I give a shit that at 0300 hour we reach our point of dentination. I give a shit that those mojos got to do what they got to do, and 45 minutes later we are turn around and gone. I give a shit that by the time the sun comes up we are all safely tucked in bed.
That's it? That's all you give a shit about?
Oh yeah...and that my stich job doesn't make you uglier than you already are...this won't hurt a bit...
What did you do the my kids!!
Me??
No! The man in the moon!! Who's driving this thing?
I think he knows that Joey.
Good! So maybe he also know where the hell am I going to get the parts I need...
You know what I'm gonna do after this...I'm gonna get a normal life...
Joey...
...Like a house in the suburbs... maybe a couple of kids...some sort of business...be in the bowling league...go to the ball games...
Joey...it's okay...
What? You don't think I can have a normal life?
Joey...look at me...
It's okay...come on...
I'm stuck...
Finnegan, what the hell was that?
I don't know...you got what we need?
If I don't, I ain't going back to get it...you think we're safe?
Joey... Which way's aft?
That way.
Don't shoot!! Don't shoot!!
Just the man I wanted to see. On this puppy here, you remember if it's red to blue or blue to red...
Not even a Joey, I'm glad to see you? Joey, what happened to your leg?
Joey, you want to get sucked out by a giant fucking mutated squid?
Red cross over to blue double blue ...is that what it is? A squid?
Squid...squid like...squid type... it's got tentacles, a feed sac... probably one central nervous processor somewhere...what the hell do I know is going on deep down in the ocean...there's all sorts of shit we've never seen...eighty foot clams...60 foot sharks...I'm just guessing...can you get me more juice out of Hercules...fast?
For juice, I gotta rebuild. That's not fast.
Can somebody tell me what the object of the exercise is here?
Seafood salad. You ever operate a jet ski?
I've never seen you so congenial with a mamber of the opposite sex... The two of you got a nice patter going...got a nice rapport...
And you got 10 minutes before this thing livens up a boring evening.
You know what I think? I think our luck has just about run shit out...
A little to the left...
I think we gotta stop floating from one fucked up situation to the next...
Line it up now, nice and easy...
I'm telling you, man, we got to give the future some serious thought.
I have been.
And what have you come up with?
How does an island sound to you?
Man, don't go up there...
One whistle... Start the engine...
She's gone...
Second whistle you make it to the deck and get ready to jump...
All you're gonna do is get yourself killed...and for what? Some chick?
You're beautiful what you're jealous, you know that, Joey?
Was it the water in my eyes or were you guys about to...
Joey...
Because it's cool, you know, I can always take a walk or something down the beach...
Joey...
Or I could go for a swim...although, I gotta tell you...if I never get in the water again...
Let's just keep going.
You ain't giving the orders here!
The hulls of these things are supposed to be impregnable...
So?
So...If the hull's impregnable why are my feet wet?
Why don't you just stop figuring and keep working so we can get the hell out of here?
Hanover!! Hanover!!
Forget them...
Shut up! You hear me!!
...we gotta get outta here  NOW.
Shut up, man, just shut the hell up! I gotta think! I gotta think!!
I'm not staying here!
It ain't any better out there!
Now look what you did!
I saved your life is what I did!
Who asked you to!
What other bunch?
The thieves.
I'm not a thief.
Then who are you?
I'm their ride.
Unless you collected on the insurance...
What are you people talking about?
He's with them.
I was born in a City housing project in the Bronx OK? It's not in the cards that I die on a luxury cruise ship...now which way up?
You hear that?
Noooo!
Jesus Christ lady...
What are those things?
I don't know...
Hey! Hey! Where are you going?
...there's got to be a way to access out back there...
But what makes you think there aren't more of those...things...back there?
Nothing...you want to come, come... you don't...
You don't have to be so touchy.
Look lady, I know you people are used to getting your way...
What's that supposed to mean? You people.
You people...rich people...
I'm not rich people.
Well, you sure do a good imitation.
Thank you, I work at it...
So this boat of yours...that's what you do? Give people...rides.
That's what I do.
Seen a lot of islands?
Quite a few.
Since I'm a kid, I had this dream... I want to own my own tropical island... Beaches, warm ocean, lots of food, little clothes...population of one...
Anti social?
Self sufficient...
With the emphasis on SELF, and in selfish, right?
Takes one to know one.
I don't know where it is!
On the side!!
Got it?
Hey! I didn't have to come back.
Yeah you did...
Right... You have a boat.
Boat or no boat... You woulda come back anyway. You're that kind of gal.
Oh yeah? What kind is that?
The "come back" kind.
How do you know that?
Takes one to know one.
Like cattle...
You're saying they can think?
I'm saying they're calling the shots...
What's the matter?
The quiet...
What is it?
A meat locker.
We can't just leave them here.
Looking good...
You should talk...
So how do you get from the Bronx to the South China sea?
You quit high school, lie about your age, join the navy, and next thing you know, four years are up and you need a way to make a living...
I was so goddamn close, Finnegan! So goddamn close to my island... I could almost taste the sand...
Keep tasting...
It's not them...it's it...
What?
You know what kind of force it took to rip open the bow of this ship? A million little things like this...
Oh my god! Oh my god! How do we do it? How do we get there?
Not like him.
Finnegan...
Yeah...
...the minute you start your engines ...it's goint to kill us, isn't it?
There's not much horsepower left in the engines, but there's enough noise...once this baby's set...I'll rev it up...that slimy bastard will come for it like candy...
If you blow up your boat, how are we going to get to the island?
Jet ski...there's one left up there.
How about noise? Can you get noise? We don't need speed, just noise, right?
Right...
You want ME to go up there?
Not unless you can wire a missle or fix an engine.
And what if I run into one of those things?
I don't mean to drop in unannounced ...you ready...
Soon as I get over the heart attack...
Three minutes...I'm not back...no matter what...you go...
No...
You don't take orders very well, do you?
I don't take orders at all.
This time, make an exception.
Where's you friend?
He's not coming...
You remember the first time we met Finnegan? I think you were just starting out...smuggling gold off Sumatra for those two Chinese...what did we use to call them?
Fok Yu and Fok Yu Two...are we strolling down memory lane for any particular reason?
No, it just struck me as odd...I don't see you for all these years and you've still got the same tape stuck in the box.
You know what they say...the classics are eternal.
Right here...middle of nowhere...
And where is our point of arrival?
Right here...middle of nowhere...and the answer to your question is yes.
Which question is that?
The one you came up to ask...are we on schedule?
Take note Mr. Mason...this is why you hire a professional...No whining. No excuses.
Don't mind him Finnegan...you remember 25...balls of steel... splashing around in a sea of testosterone.
I don't mind him...but I do think it's time for him to get back down below with the rest of the playgroup.
This isn't right Finnegan. I've got a contract.
20 hours on the clock. Out and back. Double for overtime.
And no questions asked.
Who asked any?
He did...with a crowbar...you know the rules on a broken contract.
I know it...but you want to get where you want to get, and back? I need a chief engineer, and unless you got a replacement, I'd highly recommend overlooking the indescretion.
Speedboat in the middle of the ocean...
How soon can we get up and running?
We can't...we got one engine dead, and the other limping badly.
I have a schedule...
We were talking about my schedule...
You're going to have to get a new one.
Not an option.
Then you better start swimming.
Great woman your mother. Real foresight.
And she could do a hell of a barbie to boot! Belt up. You'll find all the parts you need up there.
I assume somebody up there has made sure no distress signal can be sent.
I'd say that's a pretty good assumption.
Where are my men?
Dead.
Hanover, listen...
Shut up!
Now, where's Mulligan? Where's Vivo?
I told you...
Shut up! Shut up all of you! Now here's what we're doing... Mamooli is going to take you back to fix your engines, Chin and I are staying here to finish the job...
Did you clear this?
With who?
Who gives a shit about aft?
That's where my boat's moored.
You trying to take over my show Finnegan, that what you trying to do?
Just trying to get to my boat...
Maybe we lost them.
Or maybe we're exactly where they want us to be.
Who?
Someone...maybe they sent an SOS!
We don't even know if his boat is still there...you saw Billy!
Boat or no boat...I'm going...
Nobody's shooting nobody...come on, just let us through the hatch!
I'll kill you!! I'll fucking kill you!! I'll do it! I'll do it! I'm not playin' around here!
I once saw a guy put a fish in a bottle, then he corked it, sealing it tight, and threw it to a baby octopus. The little sucker felt its way around that bottle, and in less than two minutes, got that cork off, slid inside, and ate that fish.
What the hell are you talking about?
Us...I'm talking about us... We're the fish.
And what? These things are octopusses?
I don't know what these things are ...all I know is...
You the Captain?
Yes.
How do we get out of here?
We have to make it to the third deck...
Who are you?
He's the owner...
Why don't you want a message sent?
It's not going to help us!
We're going to die here! We're going to die!
They are...they are everywhere.
All right, be cool, everybody, nice and slow, no sudden moves.
I hear we're going to be roommates. Neil Perry.
Todd Anderson.
Why'd you leave Balincrest?
My brother went here.
Oh, so you're that Anderson.
My parents wanted me here all along but my grades weren't good enough. I had to go to Balincrest to pull them up.
Well, you've won the booby prize. Don't expect to like it here.
I don't.
So what do you think of my father?
I'll take him over mine.
What?
Nothing.
Todd, if you're gonna make it around here, you've gotta speak up. The meek might inherit the earth but they don't get into Harvard. know what I mean?
Want to come to the study group?
Thanks but I'd better do history.
What is it then?
I... I just don't want to come.
But why? Don't you understand what Keating is saying? Don't you want to do something about it?
Yes. But
Put what? Goddamn it, tell me.
I don't want to read.
What?
Keating said everybody took turns reading. I don't want to do it.
God, you really have a problem, don't you? How can it hurt you to read? I mean isn't that what this is all about? Expressing yourself?
I've found it.
Found what?
What I want to do! Right now. What is really inside of me.
A Midsummer Night's Dream. What is it?
A play, dummy.
I know that. What's it got to do with you?
They're putting it on at Henley Hall. See, open tryouts.
So?
So I'm gonna act! Ever since I can remember I've wanted to try it. Last summer I even tried to go to summer stock auditions but of course my father wouldn't let me.
And now he will?
Hell no, but that's not the point. The point is for the first time in my whole goddamned life, I know what I want, and for the first time I'm gonna do it whether my father wants me to or not! Carpe diem, goddamn it!
Neil, how are you gonna be in a play if your father won't let you?
First I gotta get the part, then I'll worry about that.
Won't he kill you if you don't let him know you're auditioning?
As far as I'm concerned, he won't have to know about any of it.
Come on, that's impossible.
Horseshit. Nothing's impossible.
Why don't you ask him first? Maybe he'll say yes.
That's a laugh. If I don't ask, at least I won't be disobeying him.
But if he said no before then...
Jesus Christ, whose side are you on? I haven't even gotten the part yet. Can't I enjoy the idea even for a little while?
By the way, there's a meeting this afternoon. You coming?
I guess.
None of what Mr. Keating has to say means shit to you, does it?
What is that supposed to mean?
Being in the club means being stirred up by things. You look about as stirred up as a cesspool.
You want me out... is that what you're saying?
No, I want you in. But being in means you gotta do something. Not just say you're in.
Listen Neil, I appreciate your interest in me but I'm not like you. When you say things, people pay attention. People follow you. I'm not like that.
Why not? Don't you think you could be?
No! I don't know, I'll probably never know. The point is, there's nothing you can do about it so butt out, all right? I can take care of myself just fine. All right?
Er No.
No? What do you mean 'no'?
No.
Neil, how are you gonna do this?
Sssh. That's what I'm taking care of. They need a letter of permission.
From you?
From my father and Nolan.
Neil, you're not gonna...
Quiet. I have to think.
Todd, what's the matter?
It's my birthday.
It is? Happy Birthday. You get anything?
This is your desk set. I don't get it.
They gave me the exact same thing as last year!
Oh..
Oh.
Well, maybe they thought you'd need another one. Maybe they thought...
Maybe they don't think at all unless it's about my brother! His birthday's always a big todo. The stupid thing is, I didn't even like the first one.
Look, Todd, you're obviously under estimating the value of this desk set.
what?
I mean, this is one special gift! Who would want a football or a baseball bat or a car when they could get a desk set as wonderful as this one!
Yeah! And just look at this ruler!
Here, villain, draw and ready. where art thou?
I will be with thee straight.
Follow me then to plainer ground. God, I love this!
This play?
Yes, and acting! It's got to be one of the most wonderful things in the world. Most people, if they're lucky, live about half an exciting life! If I could get the parts, I could live dozens of lives.
You should come to rehearsals. I know they need people to work the lights and stuff.
No thanks.
Lots of girls. The girl who plays Hermia is incredible.
I'll come to the performance.
Chicken shit. Where were we?
Yea, art thou there?
Put more into it!
YEA, ART THOU THERE?!
That's it! "Follow my voice. We'll try no manhood here." See you at dinner.
Visit from my father.
Do you have to quit the play?
I don't know.
Weird.
But different.
I say we go tonight. Everybody in?
Where is this cave he's talking about?
Beyond the stream. I think I know.
That's miles.
What is this, a midnight study group?
Forget it, Pitts, you're coming. Meeks, your grades hurting too?
Look at this.
What is it?
The god of the cave.
But father, I'm assistant editor.
I'm sorry, Neil.
But father, it's not fair.
Fellows, would you excuse us a minute?
I will not be disputed in public, do you understand me?
Father, I wasn't disputing you.
When you've finished medical school and you're on your own, you can do as you please. Until then, you will listen to me.
Yes sir. I'm sorry.
You know what this means to your mother, don't you?
Yes sir.
You know me, always taking on too much.
Good boy. Call us if you need anything.
Father!
Neil, you are going to quit this ridiculous play immediately.
Father, I
Don't you dare talk back to me! It's bad enough that you've wasted your time with this absurd acting business. But you deliberately deceived me! Who put this in your head? How did you expect to get away with it? Answer me!
Nobody I thought I'd surprise you. I've got all As and
Did you really think I wouldn't find out?! "My niece is in a play with your son," Mrs. Marks says. "You must be mistaken," I say. "My son isn't in a play." You made a liar out of me, Neil! Now you will go tomorrow and tell them you are quitting.
Father, I have the main part. The performance is tomorrow night. Father, please.
I don't care if the world is coming to an end tomorrow night, you are through with that play! Is that clear? Is that clear!
Yes sir.
I certainly wouldn't lose any sleep over it. It's just a bunch of people trying to impress Nolan.
Screw it all. I don't give a damn about any of it.
Any group pictures in the annual?
Nothing. No mention of it.
His grades are hurting, Charlie.
Then you can help him.
If you have built castles in the air, your work need not be lost. That is where they should be. Now put foundations under them.
God, I want to do everything! I'm going to explode.
I gotta get to the tryouts. Wish me luck.
Good luck.
Wait a minute. I don't let my parents walk on me.
Yeah, you just do everything they say! You'll be in daddy's law firm as sure as I'm standing here. And you'll be approving loans till you croak.
All right. Jesus, what are you gonna do?
What I have to do. Screw the annual.
They're friends of my dad. Probably in their nineties or something.
Listen, anything's, better than mystery meat.
Are you crazy? What's wrong with that?
She's practically engaged to Chet Danburry. Mr. Mondo Jocko himself.
You know what the dead poets would say: Gather ye rosebuds while ye may...
But she's in love with: the moron son of my father's best friend. What would the dead poets say about that?
Where are you going?
I'm calling her!
Too bad.
It's not too bad. It's a tragedy! Why does she have to be in love with a jerk?!
All the good ones go for jerks, you know that. Forget her. Take out your trig book and figure out problem twelve.
I can't just forget her, Pitts. And I certainly can't think about math!
You really think I should forget her?
You have another choice.
Damn. Damn! If I could just get Chris to read this poem!
Why don't you read it to her? It worked for Nuwanda.
She won't even see me, Pitts.
Nuwanda recited poetry to Gloria and she jumped all over him... right, Nuwanda?
All right! What'd she say?
I don't know.
Mr. Keating? Sir? Oh Captain My Captain. What was the Dead Poets Society?
Ah, so you boy's have been snooping.
I was just looking in an old annual and...
Nothing wrong with research.
What did the name mean. Did you only read dead poets.
All poetry was acceptable. The name simply referred to the fact, that to join the organization, you had to be dead.
Oh Captain, My Captain, we came here so I could talk to you about something.
Okay.
Actually, I'd like to talk to you alone.
Gosh, they don't give you much room around here, do they?
Maybe they don't want worldly things distracting me from my teaching.
Why do you do it? I mean, with all this seizetheday business, I'd have thought you'd be out seeing the world or something?
Ah, but I am seeing the world, Neil. The new world. Seeing a student like you take root and bloom. It's worth everything. That's why I came back here. A place like this needs at least one teacher like me. Did you come here to talk about my teaching?
Mr. Keating, my father is making me quit the play at Henley Hall. When I think about carpe diem and all that, I feel like I'm in prison! I mean, I can see his point. We're not a rich family like Charlie's. But he's planned the rest of my life for me and he's never even asked me what I want!
You can't live a life for someone else, Neil. You can only live for yourself. Have you told your father what you just told me? Have you shown him your passion about acting?
Are you kidding? He'd kill me!
Then you're playing a part for him too, aren't you? A dangerously self destructive one.
Neil, I know this seems impossible but you have to go to your father and show him what you're feeling. You have to let him see who you are It's your only chance.
I know what he'll say. He'll say that acting is just a whim and that it's frivolous and that I should forget about it. He'll tell me how they're counting on me and to put it out of my mind "for my own good."
Well, if it's more than a whim, then you'll have to prove that to him. You'll have to show him with your passion and commitment that it's what you really want to do. If that doesn't work, at least by then you'll be eighteen and able to do what you want.
Eighteen! That's two years! What about the play? The performance is tomorrow night!
Give your father the benefit of the doubt. Talk to him. Let him see who you are.
Isn't there an easier way?
Not if you're going to stay true to yourself.
What did your father say? Did you talk to him?
Yeah.
Really? You told your father what you told me? You let him see your passion for acting?
Yeah. He didn't like it one bit but at least he's letting me stay in the play. Of course, he won't be able to come. He'll be in Chicago on business. But I think he's gonna let me stay with acting. As long as I keep my grades up.
A yawp?
A barbaric yawp.
Good god, boy! Yell!
Yawp!
Again! Louder!
YAWP!
LOUDER!
AHHHHHH!
All right! Very good! There's a barbarian in there after all!
Todd, there's a picture of Whitman over the door. What does he remind you Of? Quickly, Anderson, don't think about it.
A madman.
A madman. Perhaps he was. What kind of madman? Don't think! Answer.
A crazy madman.
Use your imagination! First thing that pops to your mind, even if it's gibberish!
A... A sweatytoothed madman.
Now there's the poet speaking! Close your eyes and think of the picture. Describe what you see. NOW!
I... I close my eyes. His image floats beside me.
A sweatytoothed madman
A sweatytoothed madman with a stare that pounds my brain.
Excellent! Have him act. Give it rhythm!
His hands reach out and choke me All the time he mumbles slowly. Truth... Truth is like a blanket that always leaves your feet cold.
Stretch it, pull it, it will never cover any of us. Kick at it, beat at it, it will never be enough
Don't stop!
From the moment we enter crying to the moment we leave dying, It will cover just your head as you wail and cry and scream!
Come on boys, don't be shy.
I have something.
This was my first classroom, John, did you know that? My first desk.
I didn't know you taught.
English. Way before your time. It was hard giving it up, I'll tell you. I'm hearing rumors, John, of some unusual teaching methods in your classroom. I'm not saying they have anything to do with the Dalton boy's outburst, but I don't think I have to warn you that boys his age are very impressionable.
Your reprimand made quite an impression I'm sure.
What was going on in the courtyard the other day?
Courtyard?
Boys marching. Clapping in unison.
Oh that. That was an exercise to prove a point. About the evils of conformity.
John, the curriculum here is set. It's proven. It works. If you question it, what's to prevent them from doing the same?
I always thought education was learning to think for yourself.
At these boys' age? Not on your life! Tradition, John. Discipline. Prepare them for college, and the rest will take care of itself.
Gather ye rosebuds while ye may. The Latin term for that sentiment is "Carpe Diem." Anyone know what that means?
Carpe Diem... seize the day.
Very good, Mr._?
Meeks.
Seize the day while you're young, see that you make use of your time. Why does the poet write these lines?
The hoi polloi. Doesn't it mean the herd?
Precisely, Meeks. Greek for the herd. However, be warned that, when you say "the hoi polloi" you are actually saying the the herd. Indicating that you too are "hoi polloi."
And don't limit poetry to the word. Poetry can be found in a work of art, music, a photograph, in the way a meal is preparedanything with the stuff of revelation in it. It can exist in the most everyday things but it must never, never be ordinary By all means, write about the sky or a girl's smile but when you do, let your poetry conjure up salvation day, doomsday, any day, I don't care, as long as it enlightens us, thrills us andif it's inspiredmakes us feel a bit immortal.
Oh, Captain, My Captain. Is there poetry in math?
Oh Captain, My Captain. What if we don't know anything about someone like Rahesh Non?
Rahesh Non never existed, Mr. Meeks. You make him or someone like him up. No self important college professor such as this one would dare admit ignorance of such an obviously important figure and you will probably receive a comment similar to the one I received:
We used to meet here on special occasions. Who would like to convene the meeting?
"We went to the woods because we wanted to suck all the marrow out of life." Anybody want to read?
We thought it would be good to break old habits, sir.
What is wrong with old habits, Mr. Overstreet?
They perpetuate mechanical living, sir. They limit your mind.
Mr. Overstreet, I suggest you worry less about breaking old habits and more about developing good study habits. Do you understand?
Yes sir.
That goes for all of you. Now eat with your correct hands.
Pleased to meet you.
The pleasure is mine.
So, uh, where are you in school?
Ridgeway High. How's Henley Hall, Gin?
That's your sister school, right?
Sort of.
You going out for the Henley Hall play? They're doing "A Midsummer Night's Dream."
Hello?
Hello Chris, this is Knox Overstress.
Knox. Oh yes, Knox. I'm glad you called.
You are? She's glad I called!
Well, sure!
Chet's parents don't know about it, so please keep it quiet. But you can bring someone if you like.
I'll be there. The Danburrys. Friday night. Thank you, Chris.
Oh, hi. I'm glad you made it. Did you bring anybody?
No.
Ginny Danburry's here. Look for her.
But, Chris...
I gotta find Chet. Make yourself at home.
carpe breastum. Seize the breast.
Huh?
Chris!
Knox! what are you doing here?
If Chet sees you, he'll kill you, don't you know that?
I don't care. I love you, Chris. You deserve better than Chet and I'm it. Please accept these.
Knox, you're crazy.
Knox, I don't believe this!
All I'm asking you to do is listen. "The heavens made a girl named Chris, With hair and skin of gold To touch her would be paradise To kiss her glory untold."
Chris!
Knox, why are you doing this to me?
You can't be in here.
If they catch you here, we'll both be in big trouble.
Oh, but it's fine for you to come barging into my school and make a complete fool out of me?
I didn't mean to make a fool of you.
Well, you did! Chet found out and he's nuts. It took everything I could do to keep him from coming here and killing you. You have to stop this stuff, Knox.
But I love you.
You say that over and over but you don't even know me!
Of course I know you! From the first time I saw you, I knew you had a wonderful soul.
Just like that?! You just knew?
Of course just like that. That's how you always know when it's right.
And if it so happens that you're wrong? If it just so happens that I could care less About you?
Then you wouldn't be here warning me about Chet.
Look, I've got to go. I'm gonna be late for the play.
Are you going with Chet?
Chet? To a play? Are you kidding?
Then come with me.
Knox, you are so infuriating!
Just give me one chance. If you don't like me after tonight, I'll stay away forever.
Uhhuh.
I promise. Dead Poets honor. Come with me tonight, then if you don't want to see me again, I swear I'll bow out.
God, if Chet found out he'd...
Chet won't know anything. We'll sit in back and sneak away as soon as it's over.
Knox, if you promise that this will be the end of it
Dead Poets honor.
What is that?
My Word
I have to go home. Chet might call.
It's just for a little while. You promised.
It's all right, Chet.
It's not all right. Come on, Dad
Chris. We got it. Let's go.
Nice meeting you, Knox. Bye, Gin.
Oh Chet, that feels fabulous,
It does? What?
You know,
Don't stop.
Stop what?
Chet...
What are you doing?!
Knox?!
You fucked up little prick!
Chet, you don't have to hurt him.
Hey, I heard you went to summer school?
Yeah, chemistry. My father thought I should get ahead.
Well, Meeks aced Latin and I didn't quite flunk English so if you want, we've got our study group.
Sure, but Cameron asked me too. Anybody mind including him?
What's his specialty, brownnosing?
Hey, he's your roommate.
That's not my fault.
Todd's brother is Jeffrey Anderson.
Oh yeah. Sure. Valedictorian, National Merit Scholar
Okay, so I don't like it any more than you do. I'm just saying
Then don't tell me how to talk to my father when you're the same way. All right?!
I don't know about anyone else, but I could use a refresher in Latin. Eight o'clock in my room?
Sure.
You're welcome to join us, Todd.
Who's in?
I'm in.
I went to the woods because I wanted to live deliberately." I wanted to live deep and suck out all the marrow of life!"
All right. I'll second that.
To put the rout all that was not life. And not, when I came to die, discover that I had not lived. Pledge Overstreet.
Charlie, That was great! Where did you learn to play like that?
My parents made me take clarinet but I hated it. The sax is more sonorous.
Charlie...
It's Nuwanda.
Nuwanda, what is going on?
Nothing, unless you object to having girls here.
Where'd you find them?
They were walking along the fence past the soccer field. Said they were curious about the school so I invited them to the meeting.
You what?! How did you do that?
I'm one of the proofers. I slipped the article in.
You still shouldn't have done it, Charlie. You don't speak for the club.
Hey, would you not worry about your precious little necks? If they catch me, I'll tell them I made it up. All your asses are safe. Look, Gloria and Tina didn't come here to listen to us argue. Are we gonna have a meeting or what?
What happened? Were you kicked out?
No.
What happened?
I'm supposed to turn everybody in, apologize to the school and all will be forgiven.
What are you going to do?  Charlie?
Damn it, Neil, the name is Nuwanda.
Why don't you talk to Mr. Keating about it?
What good will that do?
Maybe he'll have some advice. Maybe he'll even talk to your father.
Are you kidding? Don't be ridiculous.
This is stupid.
It's better than doing nothing.
Welcome. back, Mr. Dalton. How's your father?
Doing fine, sir.
Your family move into that new house, Mr. Overstreet?
Yes sir. We were just talking about that.
Good. We're very excited about him. He was a Rhodes Scholar, you know.
Welton Academy, hello? Yes, he is, just a moment. Mr. Nolan, it's for you.
what?!
Who else was involved in this?
No one, sir. It was just me. I did the proofing so I inserted my article in place of Rob Crane's.
Mr. Dalton, if you think you're the first to try to get thrown out of this school, think again. Others have had similar actions and they have failed just as surely as you will fail. Bend over and grab your shins.
Do you still insist that this was your idea and your idea alone?
Yes... sir.
What is this "Dead Potts Society"? I want names.
It's only me, Mr. Nolan. I swear. I made it up.
If I find that there are others, Mr. Dalton, they will be expelled and you will remain enrolled. Stand up.
It's such a strange name! Won't you tell us what it means?
I told you, that's a secret.
Isn't he precious?
Yeah! Don't you guys miss having girls here?
Miss it? It drives us crazy. That's part of what this club is about. In fact, I'd like to announce that I've published an article in the school paper, in the name of the Dead Poets society, demanding girls be admitted to Welton, so we can all stop beating off.
That's right, it's Nuwanda.
And are we just playing around out here or do we mean what we say? If all we do is come and read a bunch of poems to each other, what the hell are we doing?
I think he's sweet.
I think you're sweet.
You know what really excites me about you?
What?
Every guy that I meet wants me for one thing my body. You're not like that.
I'm not?
No! Anybody else would have jumped my bones by now but you're after my soul. Make me up some more poetry.
But...
Please! It's so wonderful to be appreciated for my mind!
Nuwanda? Please?
All right! I'm thinking! "Let me not to the marriage of true minds Admit impediments; love is not love Which alters when it alteration finds Or bends with the remover to remove."
Don't stop.
"O, no, it is an everfixed mark That looks on tempests and is never shaken; It is the star to every wandering bark whose worth's unknown, although his height be taken."
This is better than sex any day. This is romance!
I here and now commit myself to daring!
So avoid using the word 'very' because it's lazy. A man is not very tired, he is exhausted. Don't use very sad, use morose. Language was invented for one reason, boysto woo womenand, in that endeavor, laziness will not do. It also won't do in your essays.
Mr. Keating!
I don't know what misguided impulse caused you to pull that ridiculous stunt, Mr. Dalton, but, whatever it was, I hope you've learned your lesson.
You're siding with Mr. Nolan?! What about carpe diem and sucking all the marrow out of life and all that?
Sucking out the marrow doesn't mean getting the bone stuck in your throat, Charles. You still have responsibilities to yourself and those who care about you.
But I thought
Yeah? Like what?
Like, if nothing else, the opportunity to attend my classes, understand?
Yes sir.
So keep your head about youthe lot of youunderstood?
Anything else you'd care to rifle through, Mr. Dalton?
I'm sorry. I, we
Well...
Oh come on, Pitts...
I hereby declare this the Charles Dalton Cave for Passionate Experimentation. In the future, anyone wishing entry must have permission from me.
Wait a minute, Charlie. This should belong to the club.
It should, but I found it and now I claim it. carpe cavern, guys. Seize the cave.
Well, of course not. It's just that... You could have warned us.
I thought I'd be spontaneous. I mean, that's the point of this whole thing, isn't it?
Oh God, it's over now!
Why? Nobody knows who we are.
Don't you think they'll figure out who did it?! Don't you know they'll come to you and demand to know what the Dead Poets Society is? Charlie, you had no right to do something like that!
It's Nuwanda, Cameron.
Damn it, Nuwanda. You idiot.
I couldn't stop myself.
But what if they see it, Nuwanda?
So much the better.
Well, welcome to "Hell"ton.
It's every bit as hard as they say. Unless you're a genius like Meeks.
He flatters me so I'll help him with Latin.
And English, and trig
Oh come on, Cameron, don't you get anything?
How about a trig study group? Right after dinner.
All right. I'll try anything once.
Except sex.
Yaa, I'm a dead poet!
Ahh! Eat it, Dalton!
This is it.
Hey guys, why don't you show Tina the Dead Poets garden?
Garden?
Charlie Dalton.
Knox Overstreet.
Why doesn't he let you do what you want?
Yeah! Tell him off! It couldn't get any worse.
How was dinner?
Terrible. Awful! I met the most beautiful girl I've ever seen in my life!
Thigh man? Mr. "K" was a hell raiser.
What is the Dead Poets Society?
I don't know. I don't get it.
Come on. It'll help you get Chris.
It will? How do you figure?
Women swoon!
But why?
The millions are awake enough for Physical labor; but only one in a million is awake enough for effective intellectual exertion, only one in a hundred millions to a poetic or divine life. To be awake is to be alive.
Hey, this is great.
I feel like I've never been alive. For years I've been risking nothing. I have no idea what I am or what I want to do! Neil, you know you want to act. Knox wants Chris.
Needs Chris! Must have Chris!
Meeks, you're the brain here. What do the dead poets say about somebody like me?
God, I can't take it anymore! If I don't have Chris, I'll kill myself.
Knox, you gotta calm down.
No, I've been calm all my life! If I don't do something, it's gonna kill me.
Can you believe it? She was gonna call me! She invited me to a party with her!
At Chet Danburry's house.
Yeah.
Well?
So?
So you really think she means you're going with her?
Well hell no, Charlie, but that's not the point. That's not the point at all!
What is the point?
The point is she was thinking about me! I've only met her once and already she's thinking about me. Damn it, it's gonna happen! I feel it. She's going to be mine!
How'd it go? Did you read it to her?
Yep.
What do you mean you don't know?
I'll tell you later.
Sounds boring to me.
Don't come.
You know how many demerits we're talking?
So don't goddam come! Please.
All I'm saying is we have to be careful. We can't get caught.
Well, no shit, Sherlock
I'm in as long as we're careful.
Knox?
Do they go to Henley Hall?
I don't think they're in school.
They're townies?!
Cameron, what is the matter with you. You act like they're your mother or something. You afraid of them?
Hell no, I'm not afraid of them just, if we get caught with them, we're dead.
No relation. Never heard of him. Sorry.
Say Steve, where's your manners? Here's Mutt's brother and you don't offer him a drink? Want some bourbon?
Actually I don't
So what the hell's Mutt been up to?
Actually I don't really know Mutt.
To fucking Mutt.
Well, I'd better find Patsy. Say hello to Mutt for me.
Will do.
Hey, Tricks. Some detail they got you on.
Not as bad as yours, pal.
What'dya get?
Rafts. Two 38s. A little ammo.
We need fuel, and a couple automatics.
Tricks...Jesus...
I'm alright. Let's go.
Where are you going, Tyler?
My..."detail", sir. We're going to bury the heads.
No time for that. I'll take care of them.
Just....following procedure, sir. They're entitled to burial.
I said, I'll take care of them. Just leave them there. Go help with the rest of the gear.
Step up here, Tyler.
Sir!
You fired that shot, didn't you?
No, sir.
Let me see your weapon.
It's been fired.
In the battle, sir.
Toby...thank God...wait here. I gotta find out what's goin' on.
Hey. Slow down. What is it?
Some of Rhodes' men. At the door.
That bastard. I didn't think he'd make his move so fast.
It's because of me.
Oh, bullshit, Mary. It's because Rhodes is a prick.
I want you to leave. Then maybe...
We're both gonna leave. Leave the island. I've been talkin' to Tricks. We think we can smuggle out one of those inflatable rafts. They're crated up real small. They've got air canisters. There's food inside. Even a little motor.
I am not...a guerilla fighter, Toby. I'm not a pioneer. I'm not...I'm not strong that way. I need...
Need what? Civilised order like we have down here? Christ!
I can work here. Maybe my work can help...help everyone. I can do more good with access to this equipment than I can off in some wasteland.
For the good of mankind. That's what every monstermaker says.
Mary.
I'll have somebody's ass for this. I'll have your ass, soldier. I'm not gonna stand here and...
MARY!
Come, come, Miss Science. You've seen worse.
God....damn you, Rhodes!
God has damned us all. Are my atrocities worse than yours?
You have ruined weeks of work here! We've been trying to wean these specimens onto alligator meat!
No wonder they're so....hungry.
You gave them a fresh taste of blood!
They will never be satisfied with anything else, Miss Henried. They want human flesh. I'm prepared to take whatever steps are necessary to see to it they don't get mine! Not while I'm still using it!
You can't run away from the planet, Miss Science. You can't even run away from the island, heh heh.
Leave me alone, you...COCKSUCKER!!!
You're....you're disgusting! You're....FILTH!
And you're the one who builds the bomb and they says, 'I hope it'll never actually be used'.
Julie Grant is a behaviouralist. She's not medical. She hasn't been as...exposed to...to things...as some of the rest of us. She'll be alright. I'll talk to her. She'll be alright.
Oh, I have no doubt.
If you put her on the shit list because of her reaction here tonight I'll go to Dickerson.
Ah, yes, our noble Gasparilla does seem to favour you lately. I understand he assigned you a roommate of your choice. The rest of us have to pick names out of a hat.
Rhodes, you and I had a roll in the hay together when I first got here. It was a wholly unsatisfying experience which I do not want to, and which I never will repeat! So give up, mister! I'm going home...to that roommate you mentioned.
I had an unfortunate little runin with him today. In fact...you might say that Mr. Tyler is in big trouble with the...authorities.
You better not mess with me, Rhodes. I'd love to serve your balls to those Red Coats for lunch! Think about it!
No, Miss Science. You're the one who needs to do some thinking.
Sir. In the matter of the State versus Private Tyler, I don't want to...
Sir, Tyler is innocent of any crime against the State. Captain Rhodes is...
Dios mia.
I tol' him. I tol' him this is a dead place. Like all the others.
TONY....TONY....
PULL IN! GET THE OTHERS.
Aaaaaaah...my God...my God...I am heartily sorry...for having offended Thee....offended Thee...
Shhhhh....Tony. Rest, rest.
I detest all my sins...because... because of Thy just punishment... because of Thy...just...punish...
NOOOOOOOOO!
...but most of all because...they offend Thee, my God...Who art all good...and deserving...deserving of all my love...
He is dying. He knows it.
You are dying, too.
No. The disease was cut away from me. I will live. I will live.
Prayers have no power to save. The knife can save. It can cut the disease away. The bullet. It can shatter the brain where the evil takes seed. These are saviours...our new saviours...our only saviours.
We must wait. One day the curse will pass. One day a dead man will... will...
One day a dead man will refuse to return, and that man will be a saint. The first saint of our century. That's a prayer, too. A catechism. Something the priests tell us to believe.
You can believe this, Miguel. I'll kill you if you shoot. We must wait. I'll....I'll do it....I'll do it myself....when it needs to be done.
No. You won't be able to do it. He will rise. He will rise and you... you will die.
I didn't realise! Those were decaps! I didn't know that....decaps... revived!
Any dead whose brains are intact will revive.
But...we bury the heads. Oh. God! It must be torture for them!
They are brutes without feeling. Though I admit that I've requested cremation for myself. Burial is an archaic tradition, even more ridiculous now than it ever was. To say nothing of the...spacing problem...on a small island like this.
I thought the purpose of decapitation was to...to...
The purpose of decapitation is to preserve as much...food...as possible. The purpose for feeding is to keep the beasts on our side. The fact that they can be taught to clean up our garbage or to fire a gun is a convenient side benefit, not the primary goal. The primary goal is to keep ourselves from becoming their supper. Keep them fed and they behave. Keep them hungry and they revert back to being the animals that they have always been. You saw them in there.
It's alright. I'm a friend. I need help and so do you. What's a safe place to talk?
Ain't no place safe.
Look...I know you have no reason to trust me. I've got friends in the Cave. I got some stuff comin' out this mornin'. I'm gonna try to get off the island.
I'm gonna have this stuff sent over to the hospital...
The hospital?
Yeah. My stuff's all marked with red crosses so nobody gets too nosey. Meet me at the hospital after the supplies come in. Maybe we can find a place there to talk.
Maybe.
What'dya tell that soldier, soldier? You tell him we was rebels?
He's my contact for Chrissake! There's two crates. Can you get me into the hospital?
There ya go. Complete with air canisters...little motors.
We got a boat.
What?
I say we got a boat. Can you get other stuff?
I got some fuel comin' out and, I hope, some automatic rifles.
It won't work. That's pure nitro you're dealin' with there. That stuff can blow if you look at is funny. What're you gonna do, walk into the Cave carryin' those tubes on feather pillows? You don't have a complete layout of the place. Even if you manage to avoid a fight you won't know where to go.
We're hopin' you can show us where ta go, Toby.
Oh, no. I'm tryin' to get off this island alive. I'll help you all I can but I'm not goin' in there on a suicide mission. What can you hope to accomplish? Some radios maybe? A supply room or two? You'll all be killed and in a few weeks they'll be back to business as usual. That place was built to withstand nuclear attack! What are you gonna do with a halfdozen guns and a few sticks of nitro?
We're gonna blow up the powder magazine.
What?
We know what's down there. We did the loading' and unloadin' when the stuff came ashore in the early days. A direct hit oughta do more than a few weeks worth o' damage.
A direct hit'll blow the top off this whole island! How're you gonna fuse the stuff? How're you gonna leave yourself time to get out?
This stuff really works? No shit?
Quicker than gas. And it smells a lot prettier. It usually don't kill but it puts ya under fer a good night's sleep.
If you could knock out the central communications room you could foul up their whole intercom system. Then, if you move fast enough, stay ahead of 'em...without bein' able to signal each other, they might have a hard time catchin' you.
I say it's poetic. Pure calypso, brother. The Devil's Trumpet blowin' the notes o' doom for the Devil's troops. Ha ha ha ha ha...
That entrance is closest to the labs and the Bee cages.
Come on. Let's go.
That's the general alarm. Jesus! They musta got in!
What you wanna do?
Come on!
Bees. That's what we call the dead... the walking dead...here on Gasparilla's island.
Gasparilla?
He was a pirate who sailed these waters long ago. His name is bein' borrowed these days by the long lost Henry Dickerson.
Governor Dickerson? Of Florida?
That's the man. He's been holed up here ever since the shit hit the fan. Him and his family owned these islands 'round here. They was leasin' this one to the Fed. The whole underneath is dug out. There was missiles here and laboratories and bomb proof housing, nuclear power, all o' that. Now this is Dickerson's....Gasparilla's... private fortress. Him and a bunch o' his cronies from all the best golf courses in Tallahassee...and his private army, of course.
We ran up against a platoon of soldiers. There were actually walking dead...in uniform...with guns.
Captain Rhodes and his Red Coat Bees. They could sting, sister. We know you came up against 'em. We been watchin' you since you landed. Couldn't help. I'm sorry for that. We ain't supposed to be outside. If we was spotted it could....well, it could be the end of everything.
Thanks. I can fight my own battles.
I know you can. Like I said, we been watchin' you.
The man I was with...until today... believed that praying was for blind men who couldn't see the truth.
How we gonna break the curse without a prayer or two.
Curse?
What is it if it ain't a curse?
It's a disease. It's a...a bug...a parasite that infects the brain.
That sounds like a curse to me.
We thought we were escaping here. We thought we'd found an uninhabited island. Christ! This place is a worse nightmare than anything I've seen yet!
I'm sure that's true, miss. And that's why we're doin' what we're doin'. What's happenin' underground here is just what Lucifer planned for this sinful race o' man. But we're gonna beat Lucifer. We're gonna put an end to what's happenin' here.
Oh, what did I run into? A bunch o' Jesus nuts? Religiosos? Prayer won't stop a bullet from one of those storm troopers and prayer won't keep one of those monsters from eatin' your liver for lunch.
That's why we didn't use prayers on this here white coat 'til after he was destroyed. We ready to fight when we have to. And we gotta fight now.
Look. I BEEN fightin', mister. I been fightin' for what feels like a hundred years and I'm finished. I don't need religion. I don't need prayers. I need a couple guns and a couple hands. We can sail on outa here. Find another island where there ain't so much....traffic.
You think you can find your boat? There's a thousand little inlets and backwaters all through here. You remember all the ways you turned to get where you are now? You leave yourself a trail?
I can find it myself. I didn't come that far.
Farther than you think. You'll get lost. You will. And there's Bees all through the jungle. I ain't lyin' to ya. Religiosos don't lie.
No. They just try to hold you for ransom. Fuck you, Moses! I'm outa here!
They seem to be havin' a good time. Some punishment.
You disappear in here, darlin'. You get a knife in yer belly or too much shit in yer veins. You get lost out here and nobody's gonna notice. Rhodes, he counts on that. It all makes for food in the freezers.
Let me go! I'm the one he wants. This is all happening because of me. If I turn myself in...
He's just finding another reason for bumpin' us off. Don't ya see. He needs us ta die. He needs our bodies.
Toby's right. They're not gonna sit around with their fingers up their asses while we bust up their toys.
Datura.
What?
Datura Metel. The Devil's Trumpet. Don't worry. I ain't goin' religioso again. It's a flower that grows on these islands. Where I come from the voodoo priests used it whenever they needed a Mickey Finn. It's toxic. Ground up you can put it in a drink or inject it...or...in a sealed area it might be introduced through the ventilation system.
Datura! Miguel knew it! Datura, he was shouting! Datura Metel!
We always planned to use it. We got some ground up already...but we could never find enough.
There's hundreds of 'em. Right where we landed our boat.
Looks like just two. We can take 'em when the time comes.
We're only about a quartermile from Cave entrance number five.
What is it?
It's...he was...one who came to the island with me.
How long do we have to watch him?
Forever, darlin'. Forever. 'Til he turns ta dust and blows away on the wind.
Well, Miss Henried, what a coincidence. You're just in time fer a case that seems ta concern you. Guess you didn't care about the other proceedin's we been dealin' with here this mornin'.
I'm sorry. I was...busy. In the lab.
Well, you managed ta make it here jus' in time fer this case, didn't ya?
Miss Henried, I think you better...
...Captain Rhodes is trying to...
MISS HENRIED, SHUT THE HELL UP!!!
Sir. It's quite clear that...
SHUT UP, MISS HENRIED! I TOL' YA B'FORE!
THIS IS A TRAVESTY! CAPTAIN RHODES IS...
SIDDOWN, YOUNG LADY! I DONE YUP A SHITLOAD O' FAVOURS AND I AIN'T NEVER YET ASKED FER NOTHIN' IN RETURN! NOW HOW'D YOU LIKE TA SPEND TWO WEEKS UP T'THE VEGETABLE FARM YERSELF? THAT'S WHAT IT'LL BE IF YA DON'T SIDDOWN AN' SHUT THE HELL UP!
Now I think Captain's punishment is fair, considerin'. In fact I think you ain't got shit ta complain about.
I'm sorry, General, if I...spoke out of turn. It's just that...Mr Tyler is not here to defend himself. He has no representation. I don't believe due process is being served by...
Listen, Missy. I am the only due process that has ta be served aroun' tyere and one of the people doin' the servin' from now on is gonna be you. Now you been prancin' aroun' the Cave like yer ass was glass fer long enough! All that's
gonna change, young lady. Now if you still got a statement you'd like ta make, you can jus' hold onto it 'til tonight.
Tonight?
That's right. 'Bout eight, if that suits. We'll start out in my gymnasium an' progress on from there...to various other forms o' physical therapy.
The great state of Florida. People came here fer years ta die. Retire and expire. The rest o' the country used ta think we was nothin' but a bunch o' farts and fogies. Hah! Now this here's the new Capital o' the World! Hah! They came here...died...went to hell...and the Devil sent 'em back as an army. Hah! General Gasparilla's army...MY ARMY!
We think there are other cities surviving. We think maybe Detroit... there's some signalling out of Philly.
There's no place like this place. Warm climate. This facility. Christ, there ain't nothin' like this nodamnwhere! Even the Feds knew that. That's why they stored so much o' their shit down here. It's all mine now. All mine. Just let 'em try ta come after us down here, which they will some day...take a likin' ta what all we got an' come after us. They'll hafta get past my army! An army that ain't afraid ta die...ha ha ha...'cause it's awreddy DAID! HA HA HA HA....
It's not a very big army. And small as it is you won't be able to continue feeding it for very long. We've got to find ways of getting them to respond without relying on...
You'll find the ways, Miss Mary. And when ya do...we'll sail on over to the mainland...or any other damn mainland fer that matter...and start us a recruitin' program. There's millions o' Bees out there jus' waitin' fer' a General ta lead 'em on ta vict'ry!
What is it?
The tunnel.
Are you alright, Doc? You look... you look real bad.
I have looked bad for four years. Everyone in the world has looked bad for four years. Thank God looks don't matter as much as they once did.
I know it hurts. But it won't be long. Then all the pain will be over. Oh, I wish you could hear me. GOD, GIVE HER THE EARS TO HEAR ME SO SHE KNOWS I DON'T WANT HER TO HURT SO!
Quiet!
Oh, yes. Quiet. Yes. We must be quiet.
You'd hold us back. We have to go on.
Hmmmmmm? Oh, yes. Go on.
Help me get him to the boat.
Leave him.
His madness....could be from shock.
No. I didn't stop the infection in time. I know. Don't worry. When he dies, I won't be like Maria. I'll shoot him.
What is it?
I dunno. Landing pad for a helicopter? I dunno.
It's some kind of....elevator. There must be something under the ground here....maybe....military.
Look.
What do we do? Let'em know we're here....or what?
Let's just....wait a minute. Get a better look.
It can't be. Are we truly in hell?
Come on.
Please...senor...destroy me...one bullet...please.
Maybe. We'll have a little talk first. Then....maybe...I can help you out. String him up.
Please....shoot me.
And if I don't? If I don't you'll come back after your death. You'll come back and find yourself hanging there...wanting to eat...needing to eat human flesh. You hate that thought, don't you? That's the ultimate sin for most of you fools, isn't it?
After hanging up there a few days you will be mad for food...crazed! You will lust for it! YOU WILL BE WORSE THAN ANY OF THEM!
NO...NOOOOOOO...SHOOT ME! SHOOT ME! SHOOOOOOOOOT MEEEEEEEEE!!!
I'll bargain with you. How many of you are on the island?
Two of us...only two of us...me...and him.
I don't believe you, rebel. Where are your headquarters? On the mainland?
The mainland...is dead...a dead place...nobody there...
Where are your headquarters, rebel? Tell me or I'll let you hang there forever...FOREVER!
There are no...headquarters. There are no...rebels. Only the walking dead. Don't you see. They have won.
Then why did you come here?
To look...look for a place...a place to live in...an empty place...a... new...place...
How did you know we were on this island? Do others know? Will others come?
Nooooo. Believe me. There are no others...no rebels...nobody...it's over...it's ooooo....
I wish I had better news... Our compassion index is off seven points from the last sample and that's down eighteen on the year. The `Cares About People Like Me' numbers are really in the toilet. We're off twenty points from March and that was right after we raised interest rates...
Dammit... I told them no mayo. See   I could veto this Simpson Garner thing, but I really don't want to do that...
The Monroe?
Uh, yes, sir. The Monroe Hotel...
Did you get someone to double for me there, out front?
We're working on it.
Try to find someone who looks like me this time. That last guy was a joke.
We're doing our best, sir.
We're all set, sir.
What about the intro?
It'll be on the teleprompter with the rest of the speech.
It better be. Last time you had me introduce a dead guy.
Who's this priest I'm thanking?
Father Mclntire. He blessed you at the inauguration.
Oh yeah. Did you take care of later on?
All set.
Fabulous.
What are you staring at?
Uh...
Thanks for doing this, Ellen.
Go tuck yourself, Bill.
You bet.
I'm outta here.
Don't you have anything to say to me?
Thanks for doing this, Ellen?
You don't change, do you, Bill?
What?
Since when do you care about the homeless?
I care about the homeless.
Yeah. I'm sure it's keeping you up nights.
... How could I what?
Oh, come on, Bill. Don't patronize me. I'm not one of your little... Turn around. I'm talking to you!... Turnaround!
... You know, if you want to be the same old bastard, that's fine. I can handle it. But don't pull this 'man of the people' bullshit and then do something like this.
I don't understand.
That's not just a works bill you vetoed  that would have given these kids homes... ... When I think about that little spectacle you pulled with those muppets and that magic trick...
What's wrong with a magic trick?
You made their funding disappear!
Look. If there was some mistake...
There's no mistake, Bill. If you veto their funding, it's not a mistake. If you hurt someone intentionally, it's not a mistake.
... . Ellen.
I saw the light. I thought maybe you were up.
Oh... Yeah.
Mind if I sit down?
No.
That was quite a thing you did today.
Anybody would have done it.
Oh, I don't think so. Still, you helped a lot of people.
Kind of reminds me of that thing you did back in the state legislature.
Oh yeah? Me, too.
You weren't in the state legislature.
I mean, what is it? Another Secretary? A jaunt to the Bahamas with Some 'campaign worker.' Where is he?
I don't know.
When were you all planning to tell me? A year from now? After the election... What's going on here? Dave hesitates.
They asked me to help.
I'm sure they did. 'State of Emergency.' 'National Security.' You ever hear of the Constitution?
You're leaving?
I'm not the First Lady, anymore. I shouldn't be here.
Where are you going?
Home.
Where's home?
Oh, they didn't brief you on that? How sloppy of them.
Just souvenirs. Towels and stuff.
You1re leaving, too?
I never wanted to hurt anybody. In fact... I even thought I was helping.
How were you gonna get home?
I don't know. I hadn't thought it out that far.
You sure this goes somewhere?
Truman used it all the time.
You don't have to keep walking with me. I'm okay from here.
I don't mind.
Thanks.
He said he'll pick it up in a couple of days.
Oh... Okay.
What?
It's just so strange...
I lock at you and I see Bill... I mean, he's almost dead, but he's right here... I mean, you're right here... alive and...
I'm not Bill Mitchell.
In fact, I'm not anything like him and... I guess I want you to know that.
He wasn't always like that, anyway.
Are you hungry?
What?
I'm starving. There's got to be something open around here.
I really don't have much of an appetite.
Just wait.
That's a secret.
You have a lot of secrets.
I guess.
So what do you do the rest of the time?
You mean when I'm not running the country?
Yes.
I run a temp agency.
You know, secretaries and stiff.
You find people jobs?
Yeah. Is that funny?
It's just more than anybody else does around here.
Well don't get carried away  I'm not that good at it.
You know, Dave  it is Dave, isn't it? I can't keep all of this a secret.
I know.
But you could go to jail for it.
It was okay?
It was inspirational.
Well I guess...
Yeah... Bedtime.
What?
I can't.
I know. I'm sorry...
I mean, I want to... I just, I feel strange...
That's okay.
What's wrong?
Looks like we're not going to get a chance to get much done.
They're crucifying you out there.
Yeah, but we got a little bit done. And if you do a little and I do a little... then maybe the next guy'll do a little...
You really believe that?
Yeah. And it's better than not believing it Their faces are inches apart.
I sure fall for some weird guys.
Yeah. He's a good man.
What?
Hi.
Hi.
) Thought I needed a little change. You like it?
It's nice.
I saw you on T.V... at his funeral.
Yeah, well... It's finally over.
I never thought I'd...
I know.
I missed...
... Me, too.
So this is it?
... Not exactly the Oval Office.
Oh... I lived with a President. It isn't any fun.
It could be fun.
Yeah... It could be fun.
Oh my God... I thought it was a legitimate deduction, I swear to God. See... I need a piano for my work sometimes...
Mr. Kovic. We're not here about your taxes.
You're not?
No.
Your government needs your help.
What?
On occasion for security purposes, to double for the President at the Secret Service hires someone public functions and exposed situations.
Really?
We'd like to hire you.
Really?
So, how long have they been like that   you know, him and the First Lady?
I can't say.
You mean you don't know or like  you can't say.
I can't say.
Oh.
So you just protect the President the whole time? That's your whole job?
Yeah.
You got a gun?
Of course.
You ever use it?
No.
Huh. You know what I always wondered the way they say you guys'd take a bullet for the President.
What about it?
Well, is that really true? I mean, would you really get killed just to save his life.
Certainly.
Call Bob and Reed. Tell them I need them immediately.
But it's tenthirty at night.
I was waiting for that jack.
I had a feeling.
You mean with you and everything?
`Bleed for your king.'
What's that?
First thing they teach you at the academy. `Don't give me gold and silver, or other worldly things, just the pride and glory of bleeding for my King.'
You're kidding.
No... They don't kid.
But Bill was your king, not Bob.
Yeah, but Bob found me when I was stuck in Firearms and Tobacco...
Didn't mean to bum you out.
That's okay. You alright down here by yourself?
Oh, sure. Don't worry about it.
Who?
The VicePresident...
Oh... right... You know, ever since the stroke...
Well...
Well...
You sure you don't want a lift back home?
No thanks. It's not that far.
I would have taken a bullet for I you, Dave.
Thanks, Duane.
This is from the people of Burundi...
Oh... Thanks.
And these are a gift from the King of To go.
What are they?
Fertility beads.
Ah.
Mr. President, may I speak frankly with you?
Certainly.
Something like what...
Oh, come on, we're not children. I didn't have anything to do with this Fidelity nonsense and you know it.
The Fidelity nonsense...
All I've got is my integrity. That's all I have. Now I don't know why you turned your attack dogs on me.
They re not my attack dogs.
What do you mean?
I just fired Bob Alexander.
Oh... Hi.
Dirty business we're in sometimes.
Yeah.
He's not gonna win  not in the end... They never do.
... Sometimes they do.
Yeah... Sometimes they do.
You ever think back to how you started.
What?
You know. Your first campaign.
One day my wife says to me 'Why don't you try running for office. You talk about it all the time, why don't you just do it?' So I tell my boss I have a dentist appointment and I go down to the registrar of voters on my lunch break. Next thing I know, I'm a councilman.
Really?
My wife was my campaign manager. We had a two thousand dollar budget.
How'd you get started?
Oh... Kinda the same way.
Yes, Mr. President?
You're spending fortythree million dollars on an ad campaign to... 'Boost consumer confidence in the American auto industry.'
And it's proving quite effective...
Does it make the cars any better?
No, sir. It's more of a perceptual issue.
Perceptual?
Yes, it's designed to bolster individual confidence in a previous domestic automotive purchase.
Why?
Well... to shore up product identification and preserve market share.
So we're spending fortyseven million dollars to make people feel better about a car they've already bought?
Yes, but I wouldn't...
Well I'm sure that's really important, but I don't want to tell some eight yearold kid he has to sleep in the street because we want people to feel better about their cars. Do you want to tell him that?
You sure? A Coke or a Perrier or something?
Oh yeah... 1'm fine...
Now, Dave, something has come up and I think we need to talk about it...
Look, I'm sorry. I know you said not to talk, but when I saw the crowd I just got excited...
We're not upset with you, Dave. We think you did a terrific job. Don't we?
In fact, we think you did such a good job, we'd like to extend things a little bit.
Extend things?
Extend them. C'mere for a second.
Oh my God...
I know... I know... It's difficult for all of us. But sometimes we have to put our personal feelings aside and focus on the gQod of the country.
What happened?
Well, it's... It's sort of an... an `incident' really...
It's actually kind of serious, Dave. I'm afraid the President's not in very good shape.
Oh my gosh...
Will he be alright?
Oh, yeah... probably...
No.
I'm afraid so.
Really? Crazy?
You know, on an empty road where you know it's safe and nobody's around...
I'm not sure... I might have.
Well, let's say your mother was in the car and you had to get her to a hospital. You'd do it then for sure wouldn't you?
Well... I gues I would... Yeah.
Now, let's say the whole country. Was in that car. The entire United States of America.
In the car?
In the car.
I see what you mean.
Now some of this may feel a bit Strange at first. You gotta remember that even a professional Politician has Some trouble getting used to...
A teleprompter.
What?
The teleprompter. Is it hooked up?
I don't think so.
Oh.
Presence.
Right. Now whenever he stands at a Podium, the President always puts one hand in the pocket of his coat...
At a press conference.
What?
That's at a press conference. Otherwise he just puts `em right out there.
Thanks, I wrote it.
... Somewhere there is a distant light, guiding us through this rocky shoal...'
Dave...
'America isn't in what we say here tonight  it's in the faces and the smiles of a Sunday afternoon...' Hand on the heart...
Dave!
'... It's in the gentle kindness of the family kitchen as we gather together when the sun goes down...'
I thought you said I wasn't going to see her.
It's just five minutes. She comes in. You wave to the press. She leaves.
Yeah, but the First Lady... Couldn't we start with a cousin or something?
She hardly ever sees him and it'll be so fast, she won't have a chance to tell.
Fine.
Fine.
Gimme a quarter.
What?
Quick. Gimme a quarter.
President vetoes works bill?
We vetoed that?
Dave, the budget's a very complicated thing. Even I don't understand it sometimes. Now occasionally we have to make some cuts and...
But we went there. We saw those kids.
Let's call it a night. I can't take any more.
Right. We can pick up on the rest tomorrow.
What do you mean you made it all up?
We had to, Dave. The guy's a choir boy.
This is wrong, Alan!
Wrong...
Alan...
Oh, I know, I know... It looks awfully bad. It's really embarrassing. But it was Bob's idea.
We've got to fix this.
Absolutely. Well, that might be kind of tough. Once the press starts smelling blood...
`Dave'?
She knows.
Now he's making stuff up about me.
He's not.
So you want to go swimming?
Dave  I'm working.
Oh yeah... Me, too. You want to get dinner later?
I was gonna do something with Joan.
Oh. Okay. I'll catch ya tomorrow then.
I'm serious, Dave  you could get in a lot of trouble for something like this.
It's fine.
They could put you in jail.
Why would they do that. They hired me.
I don't think so
This is undeclared income.
And who's gonna find out?
The government
I am the government.
I gotta tell ya, Dave. I've been going over this a bunch of times and a lot of this stuff just doesn't add up. Who does these books?
I'm not sure.
I gotta tell ya, Dave. I've been going over this a bunch of times and a lot of this stuff just doesn't add up. Who does these books?
I'm not sure.
I just think they make this stuff a lot more complicated than it has to be.
I'm not surprised. Can we save anywhere?
Well, yeah. But you gotta start making some choices.
Choices?
You know  priorities. Remember when you couldn't get your car fixed `cause you wanted to get that piano?
You could buy it on payments.
Yeah. That's how you end up with a 400 billion dollar deficit.
So what do we do?
Well, there's lots of places where I think you can save, but I'm not the one who's ....... I mean, I'm not the one who's not the Pres...
It's alright. I know what you mean. Let's start at the top.
Thanks. You did great. Maybe later you could come back and we could go to Camp David or something.
That'd be great.
Well  take care.
They say it hit both sides of his brain... Even if he makes it he's gonna be a vegetable.
I can't believe he'd do this.
I know.
Where's the girl?
She's a little hysterical right now. We've got her upstairs in a laundry room.
Nightmare...
Look... at some point we're going to have to call the Vice President...
Don't call the Vice President!
... What?
Just don't call him, Alan!
The guy's in a coma, Bob.
I don't give a shit.
Bob...
This is mine, Al  all mine ... I made him. I built him. And no cocksucker is gonna come in here and take it away from me just because he to be Vice President of the United States!
Till what?
TilT we figure something out.
Bob, the guy had a stroke!
Look, everything can be handled. We'll just find a way to handle it.
Like how?
Well, start by going on television and saying that he's had a mild stroke...
Mild stroke?
Yes   and that he ought to be up and around sometime soon.
Up and around? Soon?
Soon.
A condition...
Exactly. A condition.
We think so.
Yes.
Do you know how many different kinds of laws we've broken?
It's simple, Alan. We send the Vice President to Africa or something, dig up some dirt on him, force him to resign and get our `President' to nominate a new one. The whole thing takes a few weeks tops.
You mean we get `Dave' to nominate you as Vice President.
I was a senator, you know.
Oh, I know. And then when our poor President gets another stroke   of course much more serious this time   the newly appointed V.P. becomes the Pres...
What about containment, Alan?
I got the nurses for fifty grand a piece and the doctors for a hundred. The older one wanted head of the CDC.
Is that everybody?
Duane's guys, but he's got them under control.
What about her.
Her?... Oh  the First Lady... She was giving that commencement speech up in Bryn Mawr. I managed to catch her before she left the hotel.
And...
I told her his blood pressure went up after a little incident at `the hotel.' She seems to hate him more than ever.
Fine.
Everybody else is buying the minor stroke' story...
I just hope this yutz can pull it off.
Clean.
What do you mean, he's clean?
I mean I've checked everything. Women. Liquor... Finances. I went all the way back to his high school race for student body president.
No one gets to be Vice President by being that clean.
The guy's a Boy Scout, Bob. He declared frequent flyer miles on his income tax return.
What about the wife?
Clean.
Check his kids.
Clean.
Nobody's got clean kids.
We've got nothing, Bob. This won't work.
If we find nothing, we get creative. Just make something up. Instead of a couple weeks it'll be a couple of months. The whole thing is under control.
You think we can keep this thing going for a couple of months!
Okay, let's see... you can have him on Tuesday the 25th...
Are you out of your mind?
Uh, let me get back to you...
You scheduled a whole day with the First Lady?
It's a homeless shelter.
Oh. Excuse me.
It's gonna be great. 'Caring about his wife.' 'Spending time on her favorite issue...'
I don't want him caring about his wife! What about the Vice President!
Remember that First Liberty stuff we almost got nailed on?
When does it break?
Couple of days. Anyhow, look at these tracking polls, they'll burn up in your hands: seventy three percent with seniors, eighty four with working mothers...
Alan, we still have to control this guy...
And look at this. Russell came around on the trade bill.
You're kidding.
How long have you been waiting to pass that thing?
Three years.
I'm telling you, Bob, it's a gift. When you got a Ferrari you don't leave it in the garage.
No!... WE didn't anything...
Dave, these things get awfully complicated sometimes...
What's with the cameras?
Hundredth cabinet meeting. I thought it was a nice touch.
Oh. Fine.
Do we have anything on the budget today?
I don't think so.
What are you gonna do?
I'm going to kill him.
You can't kill a President.
He's not a President! He's an ordinary person. I can kill an ordinary person.
Bob...
I can kill a HUNDRED ordinary people.
He's only doing what you told him to.
What I told him to?
I heard you. You said 'cut three hundred million dollars from the federal budget, and you can keep your homeless shelter.'
Well, I didn't mean it, Alan. Why the fuck would I want to save a homeless shelter?
He was only doing his job.
It's not his job  It's my job!
Bob...
Was he a senator? Is he on the Trilateral Commission? Was he in Who's Who In Washington NINE YEARS Reed wrestles him away from the door, as Bob struggles to get free. I'll destroy him, Alan. I'll shred the bastard!!!
Don't do this.
I'll lock him away for good.
Then we'll all go to jail together.
What do you mean by that?
Just what you think I mean.
Are you threatening me?
Sort of... Yeah.
Uhoh...
... But as I began to investigate, I realized that this pattern of corruption extended much higher...
Jesus...
You understand what you'll be doing?
Yeah... You just want me to wave, right?
Wave from the door... go down the stairs... get into the limo...
`Cause you know I can do other stuff. I mean, if you wanted me to talk or...
Don't say a .
Right.
Uh Mr. Alexander?
What?
Is this dangerous or anything?
No more than the usual.
The usual...
How much do you usually get paid?
Uh  I don't know. Sometimes it's just like a barter thing... Is this legal?
First Lady...
Don't worry. You won't even see her.
They barely talk anymore.
You're kidding?
It happens. This is where you'll be sleeping.
Holy cow.
We'll be back for you first thing tomorrow and if you need me for anything, Duane will be right outside the door.
Oh... Okay.
Now, remember  keep it simple.
Don't worry.
What's with her?
Don't worry about it.
Okay, let's go over it again. You met a girl, you fell in love...
And we're going away for a holiday.
For a month.
A month.
Right and don't embellish.
I promise. I won't.
First thing we're gonna work on is the mannerisms. Alan has put together sort of a training program
Great.
I'm not certain about...
Oh, sure. Remember the convention speech?
Dave...
It's in the little leaguer who may strike out but knows in his heart that at least swung... Hands to the side...
Be a professional. If you can convince her   you can convince anybody.
... Alright.
Now when she comes in, we'll move you right out to the balcony. All you have to say is `thanks for doing this, Ellen.'
`Thanks for doing this, Ellen.'
Mr. President...
I mean, if it's a problem...
What the hell is this?
What the hell is this ?
The Washington Post.
No...
That shelter was in this bill.
Alan
Lots of shelters were in this bill.
) Listen, you little...
Uh, Mr. President... I don't believe that's on your agenda today.
Well it's a last minute change.
.. Nothing.
Great.
Choices???
Yes, Bob. Choices... Now the Commerce Department..,
What do you think you're doing?!
You mean the press conference? I have a couple of ideas I wanted to share with the country.
Share...
You're nothing. Do you understand me! You're NOBODY...
I'm... not... nobody...
You're lint! You're a flea! You're a blip!
Well, maybe I am. But you're fired.
... what?
I said you're fired. Go on  get outta here.
Oh... I'm fired?
Yeah.
You're fired.
Fine...
Fine?
Fine.
Die, you pond scum!
I'm the President and as they say 'The buck stops here.' So I take full responsibility for every one of my illegal acts.
I thought it would make more sense. I'm getting the pieces, but when I put it together it feels like... Like you're telling me about somebody else's life...
It's the truth... I need you. I know you're innocent.
How do you know I'm innocent?
Of course you are. You couldn't do those terrible things. Come home with me  maybe things will make sense then...
I can't do that. It's dangerous. What about my parents? Do you know where I can find them?
They're dead, John.
How do I get there? Tell me.
That's easy. You...
You remember nothing? Who you are? What you've done?
You know something about me?
Ah, that would be cheating, wouldn't it? Is there nothing <u>you</u> remember? Not even a detail? You must try.
You think I haven't been trying! It's like there was never anything there. Just water.
Water?
Waves... A beach. A woman whispering. That's all. I need to stay awake. Do you have any pills?
What does she say? The woman.
Asks my name. Over and over. Just like a broken record. Only thing is, I can't answer. I've no idea what my name <u>is</u>.
Your name is John White.
That's what people keep telling me.
Bad dreams?
Yes.
Tell me about them...
If you like.
You're supposed to be my doctor, right?
That's right. I <u>am</u> your doctor.
Known me for long?
Well...
I cannot say... You don't know the answer to that?
I told you, I can't remember a thing!
Did she drown? The woman you told me about?
Not exactly. She was found in a canal, disembowelled. Throat cut. Blood drained. The body wrapped in a bedsheet.
Horrible...
You remember nothing, eh? Let me show you something.
We are little more than a sum of memories. From them we reference who we are, where we're going. Without a past we are nothing. This is why you are so interesting.
I'm nothing then.
Anything <u>but</u>, my friend.
Can I get my life back?
Maybe.
I'm sorry. About before.
I don't blame you for getting angry. You are in a frustrating situation. You must be patient though. Trust me completely. I'm here to help.
What are you doing?
I have to go...
You can't go yet. We've got so much to talk about...
You're a liar!
No, it's the truth.
So you're telling me the truth <u>this</u> time? Is that it!
If you would only take this, inject it in your brain, everything would be much clearer.
Not that again...
Everyone get's one  very much like this... But this one's special. It will help you understand, everything...
You've been working too hard.
Please! Don't be foolish! Time is short. Let me show you something. Look at this syringe.
Why?
Don't ask stupid questions. Look at it.
It's a trick.
No it isn't. <u>You</u> are doing it! Now raise it over the glass and...
What are you hiding?
Nothing. I don't know anything!
What happened to you?
I'm... being... punished.
What is it?
We are... living in their dreams...
No. I, ah...
You seem restless.
Someones after me.
Then we must call the police.
No. I mean... that isnt necessary.
I see. Then who is after you? What sins have you committed?
Just let me sit here for a moment? Ill go soon, and stop bothering you.
Dont kill me!
Shut up!
Please...
A fanciful idea, Mister White.
Everyone has a job  a function. Each one teaches you more about your invention. I'm what is called a <u>murderer</u>.
A book of delusions. Anything else?
But I...
I see. The verdict, yes...
Wait, this isn't fair...
I didn't realise...
Shut up, freak! Monster! You are insignificant.
Look! This is a good one!
What is that door?
Which one?
There. Behind the cabinet. Where does it go?
Such a joker! Like your father.
No. Have a look.
You see it?
Yes.
Where does it lead?
It must be a closet or something.
Can't let you in... sorry.
I'm on the serial killer case, need to talk.
Not that. Anything else.
They've taken my mind, my memories...
What? Who has?
Is that your idea of a joke? I don't remember... Take my advice, Bumstead. Get off this case. Now.
What is going on?
Jesus! We have to get you to a doctor...
No... No doctor...
But... How long has this been happening?
A few days... a few weeks  dunno, I can't remember. Worse thing is, I never know if it will change back again... Now, please leave me alone.
Where are we going?
Shutup.
Why give yourself up?
I  ah  couldn't think of anything else to do. I thought maybe you know something... I'm scared.
That was a pretty good escape act at the station. How did you do that?
I woke up in a subway. I don't know how I got there.
People... after me.
Who?
I don't know who they are.
Why are they after you?
Don't know that either.
Don't know much, do you?
They didn't have faces.
What?
That's right. Just seamless flesh across the front of their heads. No mistake. I just hadn't remembered it that way. Up until then they had been normal little girls in my memory. That's not all. Once I started examining them, all sorts of things about my life, had... inconsistencies. It was like a game. I would think about a person or a place, or an event. Then I would turn the lights off. Sit down in a comfortable chair... And study each detail of this subject.
Go on.
Well. The only thing I've been certain of, all this time, is that I need to get to the ocean. The point is no one seems to know how to get there.
Why, that's ridiculous. You just...
Where do you think this goes?
It sure isn't the funfair.
What now?
This ocean business... I know where I can find a map. I need to go back to the station. Where will you be?
Dammit!
Sorry, sir.
Dont ever sneak up on me like that! Who are you?
Patricia Crenshaw.
Im your new assistant.
I didnt requisition a secretary.
The ChiefInspector thought you might need a hand.
Ive taken the liberty and had Inspector Thompsons office searched, as I believe you instructed. All clear now, sir. They found several more traps and things were filed under pretty strange categories... Poor man.
Good.
You wont regret this, sir.
Fine.
You typed this report?
Yes, sir. Anything wrong?
Wrong? Look at this!
It seems fine.
<u>Fine</u>? Look here!
How can I submit this?
Im sorry...
Do you wash your hands before you type things?
Why, yes.
Well be more careful, please.
Who is it?
Won't say. Says he must talk to you.
Put it through...
I need everything on the Jonathan White case.
Yes, sir. <u>Everything</u>?
All the important stuff. Wrap it up for me.
Good evening, sir.
Yes. This way.
Why are you wearing that thing on your face?
Germs, sir. These places are full of them.
I see. One things for sure, hes ambitious. Youll be a busy man from now on.
What about Thompson, sir? Wasnt this his case?
Thompson suffered a kind of severe delusion or some damn thing. Anyway he isnt with us any longer. The case is yours. Go through his files. Take what you need. By the way, hows your mother?
Shes getting better, thanks. She...
Why do you want to speak to him?
A hunch. He might be able to...
Its extremely important to my investigation...
Ill be the judge of that. Anything else?
Actually, I was wondering, sir, if you could let me have a few uniforms, to follow up for me...
Lost something?
What makes you think that! If you would learn to concentrate on facts, not get so sidetracked  you might get things done faster, Bumstead...
Yes. That's right. He's ill  he needs expert help.
I see...
Yes, sir. I'm sorry... But I don't understand how it was possible. The only window was twenty feet up a vertical wall, he was cuffed...
How could you have been so stupid?
Bumstead, you're starting to annoy me. This case is very important to me. Just a little warning: I've got my eye on you inspector, remember that.
Yes, sir.
Police. Nobody move.
He tried to kill me!
Shut up! Everybody stay calm...
Doctor! What brings you here?
Just visiting my patient.
Really? And how is his state of mind?
He's seriously disturbed...
You seem a little edgy. Everything okay?
Yes, of course. Everything's fine...
To tell you the truth, I'm glad we've run into each other like this. Maybe you can help me tidy some loose ends.
Loose ends?
I met a friend of yours the other night, doctor. Tall fellow. No hair. Rather pale skin...
I don't know what you're talking about.
That's surprising. He was leaving your office at the time...
You are mistaken.
Please, they'll kill me...
I think it's time you introduced us to your little friends.
In there.
Just like that?
What is this place?
You wouldn't believe me if I told you, Inspector. Have patience  you'll see for yourself.
Was that for real down there?
I'm afraid so.
How long have you been here?
Maybe ten minutes... Thats strange.
Spinning backwards?
What's he doing here?
Says he is the man's doctor... You know...
I <u>know</u> it's his doctor... I need the file on.. Daniel Paul Schreber M.D.
All the same entry wounds. It's definitely him. She lives... lived here. A prostitute.
The other one?
His wife.
Jesus. Small world. Where's the photographer?
No one available.
They don't speak English...
How will we interrogate them?
Well, sir... I don't know exactly.
I need something to keep me awake.
Looks like you need a haircut to me.
Thanks. Just some pills.
Only two bucks. Shave as well...
Sell maps?
What of?
The city. I need to get to the ocean.
Nope. No maps. Ocean, huh? On vacation?
Mnunn. Cold lately. That night, couple weeks ago. That was <u>real</u> cold. Remember that?
Not really...
Yeah, Im like that. Senility says the wife. But she sure cant complain. Heh. The erector set still works good. And this aint no fucking rug! Ghead. Feel it! All mine!
Nah, I don't wanna break up with Wanda, I just wanna see Carmen too.
Man, you're livin' dangerously. Let me ask you somethin', you always have to get women drunk before they'll sleep with you?
You kiddin'? They try to get ME drunk.
You're some catch Lloyd.
Hey, you hear about the chick that came in today? Said some chick bit her at Victoria's Secret. Bitches are outta control these days.
He was found a few blocks away.
Torn apart. Limb from limb. A bloody gruesome mess.
I didn't trust her. All that blood on the sheets. She may look sweet, but she could be a wolf in sheep's clothing. Something's weird.
That dude was torn limb from limb. No way a woman like that could have done it. You never seen blood on a chick's sheets from her period?
Hell no, I'm not into that shit. The sight of blood makes me sick.
Oh, so you decide to be a cop? Seriously? You don't have sex with a woman cause she's on the rag?
No man. Blood is not a turn on. You sure let that Frida off the hook. You weren't even going to take the sheets. If I didn't know better, I'd think you liked her.
I can tell she's not a killer. You just don't like her cause you have a hang up about menstruation.
Nah, man, I'm just saying, you should never date a woman who was the last one to see a guy alive.
Frida's sheets checked out fine. It was just her own blood. From her... you know.
I told you she was innocent.
Hey, there was a lot of blood.
She was never a suspect Lloyd. Some animal must have done this.
I checked all the zoos. No missing animals. You think a pitbull?
Maybe. What about all those hairs they found on his body?
Waiting for DNA tests. He was hairier than Madonna in Penthouse.
Madonna's in Penthouse?
Back in the '80's. You didn't see the pictures? They were from before she got famous. She was hairy as hell. Her pits, her bush.
Hairy women are kind of sexy. Women in their natural state.
What?
And you think I'm sick?
He was found nearly ripped to shreds in Central Park.
And he was missing an arm.
I still don't get when you gave her back the pillowcase.
We only live a few blocks apart.
This is more than fishy, this chick dates a dude and he winds up dead.
Okay Lloyd, you tell me how she killed them.
She's got a hidden pitbull. Maybe she hired someone to kill them.
She's not a suspect. What is her motive? There's nothing, NOTHING connecting her to either crime except that she dated both guys.
Sounds like you got a conflict of interest.
You take the cake Lloyd. Come on, she's not here. Let's check out her psycho ex.
Nah, East Village poseur was grosser than the dude in the park.
The park dude was missing an arm.
Poseur was missing a chunk of his neck. And his eyes were open. That always bugs me out. Do me a favor, if some mutherfucker's about to blow me away, remind me to close my fuckin' eyes.
Deal. And if some mutherfucker's about to blow me away, shoot him.
Yeah okay. I still say Frida's involved. She's the last one to see two dudes alive...
She wasn't the last one to see them alive. Whoever killed them was.
He means the last that we know of.
This one walk you home too?
Seems he's stolen money from them. He's desperate and our only lead.
One of our only leads... You had dates with both men right before they were killed.
Spencer's the key here. Frida is in no way associated with him. And her blood hasn't matched with any of the killings.
It's a bit farfetched that Mark would rip guys to shreds just outta jealousy. This makes no sense.
It's like some fucking monster dropped out of the sky and killed these dudes.
Like a vampire or some shit?
You think mafia hit?
Hard to tell. Looks like he's been cleaned up and he's decomposing as we speak. This case gets weirder by the minute.
It has to be Frida. This makes three guys ripped apart who are tied to her ass.
Okay Lloyd. First, no way does Frida have the physical strength to tear a guy to shreds. Second, why would she be so obvious and let it be known she was the last one to see these guys? Third, she's the one in danger. She's a woman in jeopardy and you're layin' a murder rap on her. Fourth, I look in her eyes and know she's no killer.
And fifth, you're dating her.
What are you talking about?
I know. I followed you. To the zoo, to her house, to your house...
What the fuck are you following me for? I'm not a suspect here.
Which brings up an interesting point. I wasn't following you. I was following the suspect. And you just happened to be there...
My girlfriend's predicting another murder in the next few days.
What makes her think that?
She says she's on the rag every time I get called in to investigate a murder.
So... they're on some cycle. The murders... Gregory... then 28 days later... Carlton.
And that was 28 days ago today.
Did we get those DNA tests back?
Just this morning. Animal hairs were found all over the victims.
What kind of animal?
Can't figure out the species. Similar to a wolf. They're jokin' at the lab that a werewolf probably killed him. Ain't that the stupidest thing you ever heard?
Jesus Christ she got her period. Relax guys. It happens.
Yeah, sorry. Uh... Gregory's roommate told us you were out with him last night.
How the hell is that your business?
We're just trying to figure out what happened.
You want her sheets?
We can just take this pillowcase.
I was thinking about becoming a cop myself. Do you take a test or something or just sign up?
Why would you want to be a cop?
I don't know, I guess the outfits are cool. And I want a big gun.
See he was cheating from the get go.
He's been running money for the Mafia.
So I asked the bartender what "coyote ugly" meant. It's like the "bagger" system. You know, a two bagger  someone so ugly that you need two bags  one bag to put on their head and another one in case it blows off. Or a threebagger...
Two bags for them, and one bag for your head in case her two fall off.
He was saying that when women are close friends they get their periods at the same time.
Yeah and when we're mad at each other we're out of sync. It only works if you're on good terms.
Come on, I've been working with Frida. Carlton won't even recognize her now. She's really coming out of her shell.
She's just so... pathetic.
She's just insecure. Once you get to know her she's fabulous.
She'll talk about PMS and stare at her salad.
I wonder how Frida and Carlton are getting along?
Carlton insisted on leaving with her. Maybe he got lucky.
So now being with Frida is lucky? I thought you said she was a flake.
It's for you. Frida.
Tell her I'm eating.
I'm supposed to put up with a fuckin' cat I'm allergic to cause your friend's got PMS?
It's so bad she becomes a werewolf.
You have some weird friends. What does her thinking she's a werewolf have to do with us having the cat?
Don't be stupid George. Obviously if she's a werewolf, she can't be around a cat. She might eat it and besides, cats are afraid of wolves.
Oh great. What the fuck am I supposed to do?
Take some allergy medicine.
You can't believe this bullshit.
She's my best friend. I gotta be there for her  no matter how crazy it sounds. I've been in some bad relationships and she's been there for me. She's lonely. If pretending she's a werewolf helps, then more power to her.
It's about Gregory Jameson. He's dead.
Oh my god, what happened?
Yes... I... we had dinner.
Did he come home with you? Did you go to his apartment?
No, it was our first date.
Looks like it was your only date. Unless you go to his funeral.
A kiss? Did you have sex with him?
No, I said it was our first date.
We can get a warrant if you like.
No, take it.
You heard about Carlton Fraser?
Yes, Jennifer told me. What does that have to do with me?
Seems you were the last to see Carlton alive. And the last to see Gregory alive.
What makes you think I was the last one?
No. We left the restaurant, and... and I felt sick... so... so I took a cab home. Alone.
You got a dog?
No, I have a cat.
How big?
No he's not. He's a courier. He picks up packages from the airport.
Packages of money.
That I'm a doormat of course. The shrink makes more notes.
Oh, I see... interesting theory.
I think I'm a werewolf.
Let's explore this. What makes you feel you're a werewolf?
I ate a guy last night.
And how did you feel when you ate this guy?
I don't know. I don't remember doing it.
Dreams about killing usually signify feelings of guilt. You had sex last night and you feel guilty.
We didn't have sex.
You say you killed a man and don't remember it. Couldn't you have had sex and not remember it? It's sexual. Why did you choose "eating him" as the method of killing?
Cause I'm a fucking werewolf!!
You use the word "fucking." You're sexualizing things. Stop berating yourself. It's okay to have sex.
When's the last time you saw him?
We... he walked me home and... we said goodnight. Um, he kissed me goodnight and that was it.
I wish I could help but last I saw Gregory was outside my front door.
Okay, if you think of anything else, please give us a call.
You busted me.
Are you following me?
No... no... this is embarrassing. I was returning your pillowcase... and I saw you cross the street... and I sort of started following you. I just find you really intriguing. I don't know why.
Intriguing?
I gotta get going. Peter gets the pillowcase out of his bag.
At least let me give you this back. I washed it.
Being a cop has such a warm effect on people.
That's my ex. He's an asshole. In case you couldn't tell. I think he's been following me.
There's a lot of that going around.
You wanna get some coffee?
I'm trying to stay away from caffeine.
Some decaf then? That was stupid. Obviously you said you were staying away from caffeine as a nice way of blowing me off.
No. Really. I don't drink coffee anymore. I used to love it but my tastes have changed recently.
Okay well. Maybe some other time. They continue walking together.
So what book did you buy?
Oh, it's nothing.
No really, I love knowing what people read.
It's stupid.
I can forgive you a bestseller.
My mom used to get PMS too.
Used to? Did it stop finally?
No, she died when I was twelve.
I'm sorry.
I've had time to get over it. She was killed by wolves they think.
Oh my god, by wolves?
We lived in northern Minnesota. She went for a walk one night and they never found her body  just her torn apart clothes with her blood and wolf blood on them. Then the town rounded up bunch of hunters and shot all the wolves in the area.
I'm so sorry Peter. Gee, that sure puts my problems in perspective.
The weird thing is I've had an odd, morbid fascination with wolves ever since.
I've read scripts about detectives, but never met one. Must be wild.
Sometimes it's frustrating. Like this Gregory Jameson case. We don't even know what killed him. I'm putting together little details to see if we're missing something.
Like what?
You know how moms always tell you to wear clean underwear in case you're in an accident? Well this guy wasn't wearing any underwear.
A lot of people don't wear underwear.
Yeah but a guy hung like a horse would need briefs to keep things in line.
How about you? Briefs or boxers?
Briefs.
Cool. I don't get guys who wear boxers. My ex wore boxers. I never got how he could wear khakis and not have his boxers bunch up.
Me neither. That's why I wear briefs... So why did you and... Mark break up?
He's bad news. He cheated on me, he insults me. Now suddenly he gets jealous if I have a date.
I really gotta get going.
Thanks for the walk. Maybe we could... get a bite sometime?
Yeah. Maybe.
Goodnight.
Goodnight.
What are those?
Silver bullets. A collectors item. These are very valuable. They were melted down from a crucifix.
What are they for?
Oh just my wolf paraphernalia. Some people collect beanie babies... I collect silver bullets.
I'm a cop  I notice everything. That drawer's ajar, that picture's been moved about an inch, the closet wasn't closed when I left...
Okay, you busted me.
What's wrong?
Oh, nothing's wrong. Just... well don't you have your period?
My period? No.
I mean we can still... whatever... Maybe I should get a towel?
No. No, I'm fine. Maybe I should go. I mean... I don't want our first time to be like this.
Frida, wait. Don't go. We can just sleep. I just want to wake up with you.
Oh my god, you scared the shit out of me. You following me again?
No. I was doing my laundry.
I'm sorry  I'm on edge today.
Was there anything in that washer?
No. Nope, nothing in it.
You sure? It's my favorite shirt, mind if I check?
NO! I... I checked when I put my stuff in. I always look through the washer first.
Everything okay?
A man killed in Central Park.
Uh.... hi!
Frida, can we come in? We need to talk to you. It's important.
Uh... the buzzer's broken. I'll be down in a second.
You had a date with Carlton?
It wasn't a date. Jennifer invited me along to dinner with them.
No, no... But Mark  a jealous boyfriend gone mad. Maybe he kills men you date.
Mark wouldn't hurt a fly.
But you said the bodies were ripped to pieces?
Still haven't figured out how he or anyone else pulled that off. Never seen anything like it.
No, why?
He was ripped to shreds also. In his apartment.
Frida. I was looking for you. You changing jobs?
Yeah sort of. Where's Lloyd?
I need to talk to you. About us. Frida... I... Can I carry your box?
No, I got it. It's okay.
What happened?
What happened?
I thought we were starting something... and then... I know it's unorthodox, I mean with you being involved in the case and all.
I just don't know if I should be dating anyone right now.
Yeah, every guy you date winds up dead.
Except Mark of course.
What's that supposed to mean?
Did I tell you I have the worst sense of humor and I make bad jokes at totally inappropriate times?
No, but thanks for the warning.
Speaking of Mark  we've tried to track him down and there's no sight of him. Vanished into thin air. I got a hunch he fled the country.
Interesting possibility.
That's it? Hell my mom chased my dad around with a knife when she had it. She made us call her a different name. She'd say, "You're talking to Betty now" and we'd leave the house for a few days.
This is a lot worse than "Betty."
You can't mean that. I'm sure your bark is worse than your bite.
No, my bite's a lot worse.
Is it that funny?
No, it's just... no one's ever said that. And I thought if someone did ever say it, I'd have to say it first and then they'd sort of say "I love you too" cause they felt they had to after I'd said it.
Is that how you feel?
Like I had to say it? No, I wanted to say it.
You didn't say it.
I love you too.
What's with the squirt guns?
They're for my cat. I use them to train him not to rip up paper.
You know, I've never seen your cat.
I loaned him to Jennifer. George moved out and she was lonely...
Your breasts feel larger.
They do? Oh no...
No, it's a good thing. I like it. Everything about you is great. I like how you don't shave your legs. Women are so much sexier when they're natural.
I did shave... Do I seem hairy? Peter laughs.
No. But I don't mind hairy. Are you okay?
Hello?
Frida? You okay? Look, I think I know what happened to Mark. I want to help. I'm coming over.
NO! Don't come over. Peter... I... I don't want to see you anymore. Ever.
What? Is there someone else?
Yes, sort of. I mean no, not really.
Yes or no? Frida, can't you just be honest with me?
You at least owe me the truth.
You want the truth? Remember I tried to tell you something the other day?
Yes, your PMS. Frida I can deal with that.
No you can't. It... it gets so bad that I become a werewolf.
If you don't like me, just say so. You don't have to make up some bullshit like you're a werewolf.
I knew you wouldn't believe me! Just go away. Go very far away!
Go away. I might hurt you.
I'm not afraid. Frida! I love you.
Peter I love you too but...
I don't think you'll hurt me.
How do you know?
I don't think you would. No matter what form you take.
I can't take that chance... I couldn't live with myself if I did anything to you.
I have the silver bullets in case I need to protect myself. Does that make you feel better?
Be careful!
Can't you bite me and then I'll be like you?
No. It doesn't work that way. Men can't get PMS. Unfortunately.
I'm staying here with you tonight. There's no getting rid of me.
I knew you wouldn't kill me.
Maybe we should have children. I don't think I'd kill the father of my child.
We can work this out. Other couples have worse problems.
Worse than this?
Sure. Cheating, lying. What's a little werewolf a few days a month? We can move out to the country where you can feed off deer.
What about... those guys... I might have...
No way can anything be proved. All they have are some wolf hairs. No one believes in werewolves.
I'm so sorry... I... I couldn't help it. You know I didn't mean to... to do any of that.
I know. The important thing is that it stop.
I'm going to take a shower.
Okay.
Here's a towel.
Thanks.
The Nielson's?
On your desk.
Script coverage?
On your desk.
Coffee and...
Your desk.
How about a "Man in Jeopardy" story?
Did you change your hair?
A little.
I can't read any more crap. These women are all victims.
Yes, that's what we're looking for.
I think we should do something with strong female characters...
I'll make a note of that. Put the coverage on my desk.
Mr. Grant. Did you read that script I was talking about?
Uh... yes. Not for us. No woman in jeopardy. Find me Dr. Quinn Medicine Woman. Find me a true story about a crazed killer stalking beautiful women.
No.
No?
No. I quit. Take your lame ass ideas, your fake ass toupee, your fat ass wife and your ugly ass kids and shove them.
Very well then. Is that all?
What, you got a date or somethin'?
Since when do you care?
You look different. I mean you look good.
You never say that.
You do though. You look really... is that a wonderbra?
No.
Look what you did!
Oh my god, I'm sorry!
Shit. And you're eating my burger? You don't eat meat.
I can't help it, it smells so good.
OUCH that stings! Damn, what am I going to do with my back like this?
Worried about what all your girlfriends might think?
Frida, you know you're it for me.
Yeah right... You better go.
Hey wait, I paid three bucks for that burger. You owe me...
You haven't even paid me back the thousand bucks you owe me!
I'm working on it...
Where'd you get the bike?
I'm kinda borrowing it. Who's this, Mr. DateGuy?
Frida? I hear you talking. I know you're in there. Let me in.
It's Mark.
It's a matter of life and death.
This really isn't a good time.
Come on Frida, I'm not kidding. I'm totally fucked. Let me in.
I did something stupid. I had a courier job  picking up a package from the airport. It turned out to be money  so I kind of borrowed it to pay my rent and now these dudes are after me.
So pay them back and apologize.
These guys aren't the kind that'll take an apology. They're the kind that'll break my thumbs.
You think that story's gonna make me loan you money?
It's the truth. If you'd just loaned me the money last time this never would have happened.
Somehow this winds up being my fault? You always blame me.
Come on, I'm your biggest supporter.
My bra is my biggest supporter.
I just need a place to lay low for a few days. Come on, I know you hate me but you can't wanna see me at the bottom of the East River?
Mark.
Yeah?
Wow.
Take your shower.
I know.
So you're Grant's secretary?
I do development for TV movies.
Oh, a DGirl. You know... I have a really great idea for a screenplay.
You're kidding, really?
No, I'm serious. How about we have dinner and I tell you about it?
You hungry?
Starving.
Man I'm starving too, I think I'll go for the Surf and Turf.
I'm not really hungry after all.
You said you're starving. Come on, I can't stand a woman who won't eat.
So there I was, hanging from the edge of a bridge, when my mom said, "Son, you got into Harvard!" It took three of them to pull me back! Frida keeps eating.
Well, whattdaya think?
That's great. Highly original.
I'd really feel more comfortable paying for my half of the dinner.
Hey, how about a little nightcap?
I'm really tired.
Come on, didn't all that steak make you thirsty?
No. Really, I'm... I don't feel well. I've got terrible PMS.
They say sex is great for cramps.
Well I have it worse than cramps. Goodnight Gregory.
What?
I really gotta pee.
You should have gone at the restaurant.
I didn't have to pee then.
My apartment's just such a mess.
That's okay. I just have to use the bathroom and then I'll leave.
Oh come on. Knock it off.
Knock what off?
You don't have to pee.
Yes I do have to pee!
You're just saying that to get into my apartment and then you're hoping that'll turn into something else.
I wouldn't mind doin' something else, but I do really have to pee.
Uh huh. So pee.
So pee? Here?
Yeah. Whip it out. You want me to see it  that's what this is all about, right?
I have cramps. I can't believe I let you talk me into this.
Come on, we've been double dating since the fourth grade.
Yeah even then look what happened: Michael Mortenson kissed you and Billy Sullivan threw a worm at me.
Well that's not going to happen tonight. George said Carlton's a nice guy.
Translation: a total geek.
Anything's better than Mark.
My shrink says he's not so bad.
Your shrink always gives you bad advice. He only hears what you choose to tell him. Mark's an asshole, he cheated, he borrowed money and never paid it back, he's never had a regular job.
He's a very talented musician.
Every woman at some point has to date a musician. I wish you'd get rid of Mark for good. Every time you break up you see him more than when you were going out.
I guess I have a weakness for him. It's those big brown Bambi eyes.
So don't look in his eyes.
I wonder what it's like being you. Being noticed all the time.
People notice you Frida.
He hasn't said one word to me.
Maybe he's just shy.
My date always pays more attention to you than to me.
Frida, I don't mean this as a criticism, but you might not want to talk about PMS around men.
Sorry. It's just so bad lately. You're so lucky you never get PMS.
I get a little bloated sometimes.
I'd kill for just a little bloated.
How about I give you a makeover? You'll feel better about yourself. You're actually pretty, you're just not bringing it out.
You're just saying that.
Do you really need these?
Only to see.
Can't you get contacts?
No, it grosses me out even thinking of putting something in my eye.
Try to get through dinner without them. You have beautiful eyes.
Or if there's a full moon.
Or if your boyfriend's an asshole.
Okay, just one more stop and you'll be all set. Victoria's Secret.
What do I need overpriced fancy underwear for? Shouldn't a guy have already decided that he likes me before he sees me in lingerie?
It's not about him seeing you in it. It's how you feel. You'll feel sexy in lingerie and it'll show. It's an inner thing.
I don't know.
There's a sale. It's such a nice place  classical music, relaxing atmosphere. You deserve to pamper yourself. Come on, it can't hurt.
Where are all the mediums?
Frida, grab that red one.
Can you believe she fuckin' bit me?
And she got the medium.
Even on sale that stuff's a fortune. I worked all week to pay for a bra.
I think she broke the skin.
What a bitch. You should see a doctor. That can be dangerous. George bit me once and I had to go to the emergency room.
George bit you?
I kind of asked him to. We were, you know... he got a little carried away...
Why did Gregory ask me out? I mean he's cute  he probably just wants to pitch his screenplay idea.
Maybe he likes you, ever think of that? It's good for you to go out  get your mind off Mark.
You're so lucky you have George and don't need to go on dates anymore.
What I really hated about dating was the lines guys used to get into my apartment. "Can I use your phone?" "How about a nightcap?" "I want to meet your cat." And my alltime favorite, the old standby, "I have to use your bathroom."
Maybe they have to pee.
Are you kidding? He might as well say, "Can I date rape you?"
I never thought of it like that. I never know what to do on dates. Do guys still pay?
They better. Of course, trouble is, you never know what they'll expect for it. You gotta know what to order, and what you're willing to do. Like if a guy spends a fortune on you, he's gonna feel like you owe him something.
Where?
Where? Where do you think a mustache would be. Look!
I don't see anything. Maybe just a little.
Holy shit, I'm a freak.
You are not Frida, we all have a little hair there. I didn't even notice till you showed me. We can bleach that, it's no big deal.
Hey, did you get contacts?
Oh, my glasses! Maybe my eyes got stronger from not wearing them.
He's dead? Am I bad luck or what?
There you go, blaming yourself for everything again.
And he was ripped limb from limb?
I'm sure they were exaggerating.
Why would they exaggerate?
To sound like big macho cops. He was probably just found with a knife in his back.
So did you do it?
Did I kill him? Of course not!
No, did you fuck him?
No. I don't think so.
You don't think so? You either did or your didn't.
I don't remember. We kissed at my door and next thing I knew I woke up with my period. Alone.
Did you get smashed or what? You have to eat if you're drinking. And not just those little salads.
I ate a burger in the afternoon and a steak and a half with Gregory.
I guess you're off that vegetarian kick you've been on for ten years.
I couldn't stop eating steak. I felt out of control  like I was making up for all those years being a vegetarian. I couldn't get enough. And then Gregory walked me home... and he peed in front of me.
What? Why the hell did he do that?
He was trying to get into my apartment and... I know this sounds gross but I was so turned on. I grabbed him and kissed him!
And then?
I think I went in and fell asleep. I guess Gregory walked home and got killed! I blacked out.
At least your PMS is over.
And my bra finally fits again.
I thought you were going to stop wearing your glasses.
My vision got worse again.
Are those Mark's?
No, Mark wears boxers. They must have been in the dryer already.
Uh huh... good thing those cops didn't see that.
He was cute, huh? Of course whenever I meet a guy, I'm wearing no makeup.
Rule one: always wear makeup.
I wonder if he's married.
He wasn't wearing a ring. But you don't want to date a cop Frida. They're so blue collar.
Gross, so this is Mark's flesh? When did you see him?
Um, he stopped by yesterday before you came over.
Why didn't you tell me? You said you hadn't seen him for a month.
I'm sorry. I didn't want you to think I was still a doormat.
Frida, I'm your friend. I'm not judging you... You didn't sleep with the creep did you?
I don't think I've ever actually liked anyone I've dated before. Peter even likes me without makeup.
Hmmm. Sounds suspicious.
I don't know much about him. How do you know if a guy is decent?
Give him the tampon test.
What the hell is the tampon test?
You're at his place, and you come out of the bathroom looking all shy and say, "I'm so embarrassed but could you run out and get me some tampons?" If he says no, he's too embarrassed, then you know he's a wus. If he says he's got some in the bathroom, then you know there are other women around a lot. But if he says yes and goes to get you tampons, well then he's a decent guy. Then, while he's out...
I'm freaking out. I'm like an animal and totally out of control. My arms keep getting really hairy.
You have to stop being so self critical Frida.
I looked like an Italian man!
How'd it go with the cop?
We almost slept together... and... then the hair started and I booked.
Frida, this hair thing is all in your head. You're using it as an excuse not to get close to anyone.
It's just as well. I'm afraid of getting hurt again. Mark seemed great at first too. I don't want to get too attached to Peter and then find out he's a creep.
Hey, Carlton's in town  come out with the three of us.
No he didn't. Come on, I don't want to be alone with those two. All they talk about is basketball and it bores the hell out of me.
Okay. I guess so.
Great. George is meeting Carlton first for drinks. We can meet and go together. It'll be a blast.
I started out on that eyeofnewt diet the doctor gave me and wound up in the tub covered in chocolate.
Well whatever it was, seems to have worked cause you look great.
You're just saying that.
What did he say?
I think he called you beautiful.
Oh my god. I've never had that before. I've had guys say they want me to suck their dicks and gross stuff but no one's ever said "Hey there beautiful."
Charming Carlton.
It is so hot in here.
Bag means condom now? I can't keep up with the word "bag." It used to be "No, that's not my bag"  meaning not my thing. But now "my bag" means "my fault."
I still thought it was a purse.
You might want to tape your nipples down next time. It's really distracting.
I can't help it. My bra wouldn't even fit. I've been going to Victoria's Secret and exchanging bras for bigger ones and still I'm busting out. It's this PMS.
Geez, I wish I'd get it like that.
No you don't, believe me.
Oh my god, look. My arms are so hairy!
No they're not.
Yes they are! Look how much more hair I have than you!
It's just cause mine is finer. A little bleach'll fix that.
I look like fuckin' Chewbacca.
Frida, this is a bad time. We're having sex and George actually answered the phone.
There is a man's arm in my bed.
Jennifer. A severed arm. It's bloody and... I'm not sure but it may be Carlton's.
You fucked Carlton? See I told you he liked you.
No! Not fucked him, I think I killed him.
Please come over. I'm begging you. What should I do with the arm? Should I call the cops or... Peter?
Frida, you're not making sense. I can't come over right now.
So where's this infamous arm now?
I put it down the garbage disposal.
And what makes you think you killed a man?
Because of PMS, I get hairy, my nails turn into claws, I eat raw meat, I roam the city hunting for flesh. I've become a werewolf!
You're a PMS werewolf. Of course. Frida, are you on drugs?
No, last night I think I chased Carlton around as a wolf and killed him. I woke up with a taste of blood in my mouth and a severed arm in my bed. And my throat hurts.
You're delusional. Maybe you had a bad dream and bit your lip  so you tasted blood. And the severed arm... well I don't see it and... maybe this is all in your head.
It took me an hour to clean it up. That was not in my head!
Maybe the blood was from your period like before.
I haven't gotten it yet.
Frida, listen to yourself. If I said I was a werewolf, would you believe me?
I don't know. You have to take Sammy. He's afraid of me.
Hello?
Frida? I was worried to death about you. I've called you for two days. Where have you been?
I've been here. What day is it?
Tuesday. Are you okay?
Shit, I guess I missed work.
Frida, Carlton's dead.
Oh no.
And he was missing an arm.
Oh my god Jennifer. I should go to confession.
Relax. Carlton was torn apart. No way could you have done that. Maybe you saw someone kill him and blocked it out... or...
Get rid of him!
Okay, I gotta go.
I'm stopping by later. I'm worried about you. Bye.
Holy shit, I don't know.
Did you get rid of Mark?
I don't know... I'm spaced out... he was taking a shower... He must be still in there.
He's been here all night?
Yeah, I guess. Mark?
What happened to his tooth?
I should call the police. Oh no Peter. Peter is the police!
DON'T call the police.
Why not? There's been a murder.
First of all, you're my alibi. I told George I was with you last night.
What? Why'd you do that?
There's kind of this guy I'm seeing.
You're cheating on George? Jennifer, how could you?
How could I? I'm helping you clean up Mark's remains and you ask how could I cheat on George?
You're right. It's just, I can't cover up a murder so George won't know you're cheating.
You say murder, but you have no idea what happened. You don't remember doing it, so it's out of your control.
I think I turned into a werewolf and killed him.
Why the fuck would you do that?
I could smell another woman on him.
If you ask me, the fucker got what he deserved. I'm glad he's dead.
That's a terrible thing to say. Frida goes back to scrubbing the floor.
Okay, let's say that this is PMS related. You think those male cops are going to understand that? You'll either be locked up for murder or locked up in the looney bin. We have to keep this hidden until we figure it out ourselves.
At least I finally saw the reason you couldn't get over Mark.
You should have seen it erect.
You expecting someone?
No.
Ignore it.
Fuck it's the cops. Peter saw me, now I have to let him in.
Tell them you'll meet them outside.
What the fuck are we going to do?
Hide him.
Peter knows something.
Well if he does, he didn't give you away. He must really like you.
I think I just got my period.
Does that mean this whole thing is over?
Probably for three weeks or so anyway. I'm not sure  I don't get how it works.
Let's do some research. I'll check the libraries. You surf the web.
You're such a good friend.
So are you. Look, go about your life. Act like nothing's wrong. We'll get to the bottom of this.
Symptoms include loss of emotional control, compulsive behavior, cravings, crying spells...
Peter keeps asking me out.
Maybe you should go out with him. If you keep avoiding him he'll get suspicious. Besides, what better way to not get busted than to date the cop who's investigating you.
The thing is, I really like him. I finally meet a guy I really like and I'm a fuckin' werewolf.
We don't know you're a werewolf. It might never happen again. You have to get on with your life.
"Paranoia, insecurity, depression, changes in vision, feelings of losing control; belief that you have a mental problem..." Nothing about turning into a werewolf.
Check out what I found.
This is from a scientist in France, Madame Sconce. "The original werewolves were females. They became werewolves on the lunar cycle because it corresponded to the woman's cycle. My suspicion is that the only cure is true love."
Great so all I have to do is fall in love? Like I haven't tried that for the past 24 years.
"The femalecycle werewolf will only kill men and never kills someone she truly loves." See I knew you never loved Mark.
Who is this Madame Sconce? Let's find her and talk to her.
She died at age 34 in the 1800's. They thought she was crazy. She was banished from her town. Seems her husband shot her.
Guess she never found true love.
The weird thing is... he shot her with a silver bullet.
So... she was a werewolf. Do you think we can believe all this?
What choice do we have?
So what do I do?
Fall in love.
I think I already have.
I'm cleaning my stove.
You scared the shit out of me. I thought you were killing yourself.
I tried to kill myself  earlier. It doesn't work. I think I need silver bullets. So I got depressed and when I'm depressed I clean.
You'll get through this. You were fine for over three weeks.
I'm just afraid I'll hurt Peter. I think I love him.
Remember what Madame Sconce said. If you love him he'll be fine.
But how do I know if I really love Peter? And if he really loves me?
I guess you'll find out.
No. I can't take that chance. I'd rather kill myself.
No. I won't let you do that.
The werewolf always dies at the end. Didn't you see "American Werewolf in London?"
I think George knows.
About Mark? Carlton?
About Benito.
Did I kill a guy named Benito?
No, he's the guy I'm having an affair with.
I thought you and George were getting married.
We were  I was just so tempted... It was sort of a test. I think after sleeping with Benito I know I want to be with George. But now George knows about Benito and he doesn't want to be with me!
I wish I only had your problems.
Sorry  I shouldn't go on about myself at a time like this. Are you sure you're going to be okay?
Yes, just check on me once a day for the next three days. Then the PMS should be over.
Hello?
Frida? You okay?
Never been better. Peter spent the night. I must really love him. He's still alive.
Oh thank god. Maybe this whole thing is really over.
God I hope so. Hey can I call you later? Peter's still here. He's in the shower.
Sure. See ya.
Jennifer?
No it's mom.
Mom!
We're worried about you. "60 Minutes" was on samesex couples.
What does that have to do with me?
You haven't mentioned dating anyone since Mark and, well you're not a lesbian are you?
No, I'm not a lesbian. Geez mom.
It's okay if you are, we just want to know. I don't want to be expecting grandchildren if...
A bite... Where'd you get bitten?
At Victoria's Secret.
There was a sale.
I mean where on your body?
Oh, on my wrist.
A dog at Victoria's Secret?
No, it was another woman.
How's the rest of your health?
Good. Except for PMS.
PMS. What symptoms are you experiencing?
It's hard to describe. I get really bloated and irritable and emotional and depressed and...
That's just part of being a woman. Diet and exercise should help. Avoid salt, sugar, starches, caffeine, alcohol...
What else is there?
And keep a journal of your symptoms to make sure it's related to your period and not just in your head.
It's not just in my head.
That bite healed up quickly. It's been about three weeks?
Nearly four.
How have you been feeling?
Okay, but I'm worried about the next PMS bout. It's gotten worse. I'm not myself during it. I get bloated, irritable, my breasts get huge, my nails turn into claws, my teeth get sharper and I have more facial and body hair.
Sounds all stress related. Your teeth may feel sharper if you're grinding them at night. You don't seem hairy to me. Is that all?
I get crazy dreams and I black out.
Diet and exercise, that's all there is. I'm not a big proponent of the PMS craze, but there's a book my wife mentioned called "The PMS Diet," which may be helpful.
Does she have PMS?
Now it's menopause. She's always hot. I gotta wear a parka around the house cause she keeps it so cold. It's always something.
Guess you like those Coyote Ugly steaks now, huh?
Sorry, don't mean to be wolfing down. I'm just starving.
Don't apologize. It's great to see a woman really enjoying her food. I hate it when I buy a woman dinner and she won't even touch it.
No one I've run into knows what "coyote ugly" means.
Maybe that bartender made it up. I mean I think coyotes are rather beautiful. Maybe "coyote ugly" is really a compliment. Like someone who's conventionally "ugly" but is really beautiful.
Yeah that's like a three bagger. Today a bag is also a condom, so now a three bagger can be a chick that's really hot. So hot you gotta put several condoms on to dull the senses.
Sorry I didn't recognize you earlier. You look so different.
I've changed a lot lately.
You shouldn't smoke. It'll kill you.
Yeah yeah I know. Smoking kills. I'll quit someday. Doesn't it seem like all the cool people smoke?
No.
James Dean, Humphrey Bogart...
Yul Brynner. They're all dead.
Yeah but they looked cool...
What?
Your lips look delicious.
Wow your body's really hot.
I've been working out.
I mean body temperature. Do you have a fever?
Never felt better.
It all starts with them going to the bathroom together.
That many women in one place  nothing good can come from that.
Sorry about Frida. She's been friends with Jen forever.
What's with her? If they're not bleeding they're PMSing. If they're not PMSing, they're warning you about the impending doom. If you're lucky, you get a sane person one week a month. Then you gotta date three or four women just to get some normalcy in your life.
I'm lucky Jen's not like that.
I don't believe in PMS. Women made it up just so they can be bitchy.
My brother has an answer to PMS. ASS: Abundant Sperm Syndrome. A man gets sperm buildup, and if his woman isn't givin' it to 'em, he's gotta get it elsewhere.
Yeah and when your woman says you're an ass, say yes, I have Abundant Sperm Syndrome.
Waiter! She needs more water.
Can we get some service here?
No way is that the same chick. The other one was a dog.
Jennifer gave her a makeover.
Looks like a helluva lot more than a makeover. Was there surgery involved?
I know it may seem stupid of mebut it isn't the slap I'm worried about  it's the reason.
Something to do with a butterfly they were quarreling about it.
No. Amy slapped Donald because he had hurt the butterfly  and it was her friend.
Well, that seems a harmless fancy 
Amy has too many fancies  too few friends. It worries me. It doesn't seem normal.
You'd better hurry. I've left Amy in the car and she's getting impatient. She tells me there's something especially important about a sixth birthday.
We'll see that she gets there in good time
She refuses to deny it. She continues to believe in her lies.
But don't you see...it's just what I was about to say to Alice...Amy in her own mind may not be lying.
But there was nothing, no one in the garden.
She needed, a companion, so out of her own hunger she created one. In her mind her friend was in the garden. In her mind her friend never leaves her. Right this very minute I'm sure she's upstairs sobbing out her grief to a friend who exists only in her mind.
But we have. She's wanted for nothing.
Perhaps she's wanted for understanding.
Everything all right down there at the school, Mr. Reed?
Yes, everything's all right, Edward.
When I first heard all that talk about you going down to the school to see the teacher I got really afeard. I thought maybe you night call off this birthday party  and me with the cake already in the oven.
I imagine a child would have to commit murder or rob the Seventh National Bank of Tarrytown to be deprived of a birthday party.
I thought we were going to save those leaves you were burning for the compost bin.
Got more leaf mold now than we'll ever need, Mr. Reed. I thought I'd burn 'em up and get the yard clean.
You won't have long to wait. In just a few minutes this house will be overflowing with boys and girls. Off with you now, Amy. Go out and watch from the gate for all the children who'll be coming.
Go on  out with you.
Well, ma'am, the truth is, I gave them to Amy hersolf to post.
And Amy mailed them?
She pleaded so to do it
Amy looks happy seems almost as if she were playing with another child; like somebody else were running with her and playing.
I like to see her happy.
So do I, Mr. Reed.
I didn't even have to coax her tonight.
That's because she made a promise, and she'a keeping it, aren't you, darling. You saw the way she played this afternoon, Edward.
Indeed I did. Up and down the garden she went, laughing and singing to herself.
"To Daddy from Amy." Here's one for Miss Callahan. This one says, "To Edward from Amy.".
Good heavens! What could you be giving me. Little Miss?
Let the child stay.
Now, I don't know Amy 
On the dark nights on the stormy nights  you can hear him. He passes like the wind; The flapping and fluttering of his great cloak beating like gaunt wings. The thunder of his horse's hooves is loud, loud and louder, beating hard, beating strong on the frozen ground as he comes riding, riding, riding.
Little miss, you can't stay here. You've got to come with me.
...At the hour of midnight, down the road that goes through Sleepy Hollow, across the bridge, he goes galloping, galloping, always searching, always seeking
Come away, Amy.
There's a present you haven't opened yet, ma'am.
That's from her  that woman.
It's some animal hurt in the woods that made that sound.
Wait a minute. Listen.
What is it, ma'am?
MRS. FARREN +++$+++
It's dark. We'd better be getting on. The family will be waiting.
Such a brief visit, but dear child, it has made my Christmas very merry.
My daughter, Barbara, died when she was six. That was long ago. You're only the woman who keeps care of me. I know you.
Look at me.
You didn't even open my present and I'm your daughter.
My daughter died long ago.
I hate the storm. I hate it!
The storms have done everything they can to me, I don't hate them. I don't even hear the wind. It blows beyond me. It was on such a night as this that Barbara died.
But I am Barbara. I didn't die.
My Barbara was killed. I killed her. Yes, it was my fault. Everyone told me not to drive from the theatre. There was a raging wind that night, and snow and ice. All was well until we got to the Sleepy Hollow bridge. Barbara was singing a little song and then ...I don't know how it happened ..when I awakened, they told me the car was overturned, and they wouldn't let me see Barbara. Barbara was dead.
Oh, doesn't that prove something to you? Doesn't it?
Anybody could know that song.
Look at me. Look at me, mother darling. Look into my eyes. What color eyes did Barbara have?
Gray. They were a lovely, lovely gray.
And my eyes...my eyes are gray. Look! You see!
Yes...yes, that's true.
And my hair...what color hair did Barbara have?
It was pale...a shadowed gold.
Mother! You called me by name!
Yes, Barbara... Barbara...
Promise me you won't forget tomorrow. You'll remember, won't you? You won't say that it was just a dream. Promise me.
Yes. Yes, Barbara, I shan't forget.
There's another promise you must make me. That little girl who comes here...she mustn't ever come to see you again. Promise me you won't see her.
Ishan't see her. No, Barbara, no.
If that child comes here...if I find her trying to steal your love from me...I'll kill her. Yes, I'll kill her:
I'll not see her, Barbara. I promise.
Good night, mother, good night.
Good night...Barbara...
I've been watching you. You couldn't see me, but I could see you. It was like peeking through a slit in the curtain before the play began. You would be a very good audience. I can see that.
If you were the lady who gave me a ring, my mother says I have to give it back to you.
Return it to me? Indeed you may not. I gave it to you as a present.
But my mother says I mustn't accept gifts from strangers.
Stranger? Julia Farren a stranger. Why I've played every theatre from Boston to San Francisco. I've been to London and Paris. Those days those beautiful, shilling, golden days.
But I only came to give back the ring.
The ring? We'll have no more nonsense about the ring.
She's always spying on me. She creeps into the room. She lives upstairs, yet she's always watching me always!
Who is she?
That woman is an imposter, a liar, and a cheat. How do you like your tea? </PRE><PRE> AMY Well... .sometimes I got a spoonful of tea in a cup of hot milk.
There you are. Take some cake, why don't you?
No, thank you.
One little piece of cake won't hurt you. Go ahead, take one. It's full of fruit...citron, cherries and ginger. It'll make you dream. Yes, wonderful dreams.
I like stories.
Then I'll tell you a story a lovely story. Do you know the story of Rapunzel?
Mommy read it to ne.
Do you know the story of "The Headless Horseman?"
The Headless Horseman 
Why hasn't he got a head?
It was shot off long ago in the great battles that were fought here; with the British on one side and the Americans on the other.
He'll let me stay, Mrs. Farren. He'll let me stay.
Good.
I brought you a present. Merry Christmas.
A Christmas present. It's been so long since I've had a Christmas present.
What?
Don't you hear it?
Who's Herne the Huntsman?
Don't you read Shakespeare?
And does he kill people?
No, not people  just deer and game, but the people he catches can never be free again. They too must kill and kill, covering themselves with blood.
Hide me? Why?
My little girl said she'd kill you if you came to see me. I can't let you die. We'll have to hide you.
Hurry, hurry.
Yes, yes 
Hurry!
I can't do it! I can't do it!
Getting the yard all fixed up for your party, Amy. You'd better hurry and get yourself fixed up too.
Mommy's taking me upstairs to change my dress right away.
Look at my ring.
That's a finelooking ring.
A lady threw it to me.
Most surely that was a nice lady to give a ring to a little girl.
It's a pretty ring.
I wouldn't be surprised if it were a true wishing ring.
A ring that I can wish on like I wished on the candles?
Maybe, if it's a real mourning ring like we have in Jamaica. All you got to do is turn it on your finger, close your eyes, and make a wish.
the ring up to him) What's a mourning ring?
They're given to the living in memory of the dead. If this is a real one  I can't be sure  you can make a wish, and it will come true in the twinkling of an eye.
Well, if it's a real mourning ring,. I'm going to think hard for something I want more than anything else in the world before I wish.
That's the clever way to do it.
Been crying? That won't please your Daddy. You'd bettor cheer yourself up.
I'm trying to.
Let me take another look at that ring.
I wasn't singing to myself.
Oh, I suppose it was to the wind you sang, or maybe to the sun, or the clouds, or maybe it was to the flowers in the garden.
Little miss, you're stopping me in my work.
But I want to talk to you. Mommy says for you to come up to the old house with me. I've got to take back this ring.
You just wait until I finish here. I've got to dust these ships for your Dad.
Will you come soon?
Soon as I finish.
You're going to be busy all day long, Edward.
I do suppose so. But if you were there yesterday, guess you can get there today.
That means I can go alone?
About time for you to come home, Amy.
But Mrs. Farren just started to tell me a story. Please.
Little miss, don't you never come here alone. You gave me a fright, you did.
But she's such a nice lady.
But I don't want you coming here alone. You get me to go with you when you want to come here. You promise?
There was a deer on the other side of the fence.
It's a hard winter. All the animals are bold as brass, coming down into the streets for food. You'll see a lot of deer this winter.
Mustn't look, little miss. Mustn't look.
But I saw what it was. It's the little deer.
Bad luck to see death in the snow.
But what happened to the little deer?
Probably hit by a car. Hard to see things in the twilight.
Why is it just lying there? Why doesn't it get up?
Because it can't. It's dead.
But it was alive it was fast and strong!
It got hit.
But where has it gone? Where's all the strength and the quickness?
Who are you?
You called me by my name.
Irena. But who are you?
I'm your friend.
I've wanted a friend.
I've wanted a friend too. I've been lonely.
But where do you come from?
You wouldn't understand. I come from great darkness and deep peace
But where is that?
I can not tell you.
Will you be friend for always?
For as long as you'll let me.
I shall want you for always.
For always, then. Only you must promise never to tell anyone about me
Not even Daddy...or Mommy?
No. This must be a friendship that only we shall have... you and I... Amy and her friend.
Oh, I like the sound of that.., Amy and her friend... Amy and her friend.
You'll always play with me?
Whenever you want.
Can't you get it, darling?
I'll just never learn arithmetic.
But you must!
The numbers simply don't mean anything
Oh yes they do. Look. One is like a tall princess.
A princess?
Of course. And Two is the prince who kneels before her on one knee.
Yes, yes! I see Prince,
That's right!
This is more fun than just pretend.
Of course,
There's an oak leaf. Add a maple.
That one's an elm.
light shining) in her eyes) Throw sea weeds into the flames, and the fire turns blue!
But we don't have any sea weed.
Pretend, darling. It's All Soul's Eve. Round about the fire we go... Over the flames we leapt
No, I don't think that's very much fun. Let's play house instead. You be the friend who comes to see me. I'll show you my children.
Your children?
My dolls. We can pretend.
All right, Amy. Button your sweater, darling. It's turning cold.
Yes, winter's coming. I don't like the winter,
Oh, but the winter's fun. There's the wind and the snow. You'll like the warm fire upon the hearth, and the long, long nights.
Merry Christmas, Irena. I brought you a present.
Oh, thank you, Amy.
You can open it now, I guess. Lois Huggins says that's proper,
Oh, how beautiful!
It reminded me of you, so I bought it. It cost me more than all the others.
I shall wear it in my hair!
Oh, that is more beautiful than I ever imagined it! I wish I could show you to mommy and daddy. I wish you could enjoy Christmas with us.
You and I shall enjoy Christmas together. Shall I show you my Christmas gift to you?
Oh, please!
Merry Christmas.
A merry Christmas to you, Amy.
So beautiful, Irena. So beautiful.
You wanted to share this moment with me.
It stands so still.
Because it knows it can move with the swiftness of strong wind.
I can sea its breath in the cold.
It's a warm breath  warm and strong warmed by the sunlight that shone on the deer's back in the hot summer; sweet with leaves and mosses.
May I pet the deer?
It is wildness and freedom. No one can touch it.
I want to touch it.
It's you...Irena...my friend!
Don't cry, Amy.
She's dead! I know what it is now when people say somebody died. I know what they mean! And I'm afraid. She's dead; she's dead!
You mustn't be afraid.
But she's dead!
Amy, listen to me. Death isn't such a terrible thing.
Oh, it is, it is! Death's terrible.
But, Amy! Amy...I'm dead.
You?
Yes, Amy.
But why?
Death's like life. Death's a part of life. It isn't frightening. It isn't the end of everything. It isn't quiet and nothingness. It's a part of all eternity.
What'd you get for Christmas?
I don't know yet.
My goodness, don't you open your presents until Christmas morning?
No.
We open ours on Christmas Eve. That's considered proper.
Well, I guess we're not a very proper family.
Is that my birthday cake? May I see?
You'll see it when it's all lit and ready for you.
Amy, you remember the party invitations Edward, gave you to mail?
Yes, daddy.
Did you mail then?
Yes, I did.
Where did you mail them?
I'll show you.
Amy, not that old tree!
Yes, daddy.
But I told you about that so long ago; you couldn't have been more than three when I told you that tree was a magic mailbox.
I didn't forget.
But, Amy, that was just a story; it wasn't real. That tree's no mailbox.
Amy, make a wish. Wish real hard, and then blow out the candles, and your wish will come true.
But wishes don't come true.
Certain wishes do.
But you told me in the garden that the wish about the tree couldn't come true.
But this is different. Go on blow,
What do you want. Amy?
I wanted to talk to you, I wanted to tell you about the other children.
Can't you tell me later?
But I didn't play with them, Daddy. They wouldn't play with me.
What do you mean you didn't play with the other children?
It was on account of the birthday party.
Because you didn't ask them? I don't blame them for being angry. Why didn't you explain what happened?
They ran away.
Why didn't you run after them?
I did. I came to an old dark house, and a voice called to me  a lovely, sweet voice 
Now Amy
It's true.
And who did the voice belong to?
It was just a voice.
Now look, this is the last time you come to me with any such stories I'm sick of this sort of thing.
Daddy, it's true.
Let me be the judge of that.
No, I didn't.
Voices from an old dark house!
I'm sorry. Daddy and Mommy are a little upset.
You're upset about me  I made you fight I hate for you to fight.
These are all from me.
This one says, "To Mother from Amy."
Just you wait!
And this one's for Mrs. Farren.
She gave me a ring, so I'm giving her a ring. I paid twentyfive cents for it, too.
This one hasn't got a name on it. Who's this one for, Amy?
Daddy!
Yes, Amy?
Why, daddy, you know my friend too!
Amy, answer me. Why did you call her your friend?
Because she is my friend.
It isn't a secret. She plays with me. She plays with me in the garden all the time. Right out there in the garden, she does!
In the garden? Would she be there now?
She's there whenever I call her!
She's there, just like I said she'd be.
Where, Amy? Where do you see her?
Don't you see her?...Right there, under the tree.
Amy, there's nothing there. There's no one at all in the garden.
But Irena is in the garden. She's right there, under the tree.
Listen, darling. I want you to look once more. Take as long as you want. Look very carefully, and then I want you to tell me that no one's there.
But...
I have eyes too, and I tell you no one's there. If you deny that, if you insist that this woman you call your friend is in the garden, then I'm afraid I shall have to punish you. Do you understand?
Yes, she was afraid. She said there was someone who wanted to kill me.
But there's no one here, darling.
She's upstairs.. .the lady who lives up there.
Daddy?
Yes, darling.
Tell me tha real truth. You can see my friend, can't you?
It's late, Mommy  you haven't forgotten my birthday party.
Your birthday, Amy  as she goes)  and I have something for you in my locker. A present.
Mommy's having a party for me. I asked Robert, and Donald, and Lois 
Hello, Amy.
Are you coming to see us. Miss Callahan?
No, darling, I hadn't intended to.
I live right here.
Maybe I'll drop in and see your Mommy.
I got lots of presents.
And you should. Your mommy tells me you've been such a good girl, and your daddy is so pleased with you.
I thought you were with Amy.
No, she went runnin' off to some old house she was talkin' about yesterday.
That's the Farren house.
Is that where she got the ring, Mrs. Reed? She shouldn't be up there.
But I told her to go with you.
She said something about that, Mrs. Reed but she didn't tell me it was the Farren house. I'll get my other hat and coat and go over there.
You do that, Edward.
Well, it shows imagination, anyhow.
I wonder if you don't resent that in her?
I'm sure I don't, Alice. It's something else  something moody  something sickly  She could almost be Irena's child.
I'd hate her to grow up like that.
She's not Irena's child  there's nothing of Irena in her. She's my child.
All I have to do is look at Amy's eyes, blue and deep like yours.
I'm not a jealous woman, Oliver.
I know that.
That's why I can tell you, straight out, you think too much about Irena  blame yourself for her death. And its your thinking and brooding about her that makes you so unnaturally concerned about Amy.
No. It's not that. It's because I know what can happen when people begin to lie to themselves  imagine things. I love Amy too much to let her lose herself in a dream world where butterflies become pals. I saw what happened to Irena with her Cat People.
I know, dear. I understand. But try to worry a little less about her  be a little easier in your thinking. And especially today let's forget about it. We want a really bangup birthday party, don't we?
You make me sound like the father in "East Lynne."
Darling, no father could be nicer to a child than you are to Amy.
Why don't you take off your hat and stay awhile?
I forgot I had it on.
Where is everybody?
It's early yet.
It's nearly a quarter after four. The party was for four, wasn't it?
Yes, darling,
Gosh, in my day kids arrived at birthday parties before anybody was ready for them,
Times have changed.
Oilie, that's for the children to play with.
No kids yet. Something's gone wrong. Maybe I ought to call somebody.
All right, Ollie. Go ahead. Call the Boyds...3000W...see if their darling Donald has left.
I think I should. 3000W?
That's right.
Something's haywire,
What do you mean?
I called not only the Boyds but the Irvings. Neither of them received invitations.
But they must have. Amy and I made them out together. You mailed them, didn't you, Edward?
My, my, what a coil we're in! What's this all about?
Amy's been lying again.
Did you hear the child out?
Well, it seemed to me 
You mean you didn't. It seems to me the least you could do. You can't just jump at conclusions that way. You're being unfair.
I'm never unfair.
You're shouting at me.
I'm not shouting at you, but there's no doubt in my mind that you spoil this child!
What is it, Alice?
I thought Amy was calling. I guess not.
Ollie.
What?
It's your play.
I'm sorry. I was somewhere else. He returns to the card game.
I haven't had my breakfast.
Well, you know where it is.
Where did you get it?
Amy picked it off the top of that stack. Perhaps you'd better go through the whole bunch. There may be others of Irena in there.
Some day I'm afraid we're going to have to tell her about Irena.
I suppose so.
What's funny?
That darn kid. I never in my life expected her to get an A in arithmetic. Math's is a practical science  if she understands figures, she's well out of her own world of makebelieve.
Oliver, please. Let's not go on with this. The child's trembling.
We've got to go on. Amy, here, all this time, you've let your mother and father think you had forgotten that old dream life of yours. Now we find you've only kept it secret.
You get your wish!
You know what I wished, Daddy? I wished I could be a good girl.
But Edward, in this kind of a wish that doesn't matter.
I can make wishes like this come true. I'll be just like Daddy wants me to be  play with the other children  not sit around by myself tell the truth 
What are saying, darling?
I wasn't saying anything. I was singing.
I suppose any note, no matter how sour, is a song if you hold on to it long enough.
What song, dear?
The song I was trying to hum. The song my friend, taught me.
Oh, you'll remember it some time.
Mommy 
Yes, darling.
Did you ever make a wish?
Oh, lots of times.
Did your wishes ever come true?
Sometimes.
I made a wish today, and it came true just like Edward said it would.
Where did you get this ring?
That's what I wished on. Edward says it's a wishing ring  and it is!
But where did you get it, Amy?
At the old house with the voice.
Someone gave it to you? Where was this old house?
On the back street a green house
The Farren house
Do you know the people?
No dear. I don't know them, but I've heard about them.
Are they nice?
I really don't know, but I do know that you must return the ring. You get Edward to take you up there and bring it back to the old lady.
Well the mother or daughter  whichever one gave it to you. You ask Edward to go with you.
I got my wish anyway.
You mustn't tell anybody, or it won't come true.
But it's already come true.
Sh! Then you must keep it true. Goodnight, darling.
Edward will give you your breakfast, Amy.
I had my breakfast while you were still asleep.
Where'd you get this, darling?
It was right there on top. Isn't she pretty?
She was very pretty.
What's her name?
Irena.
Irena.
Look! Why don't you run out and play? The sun's shining.
All right, mommy.
Oh, thank you, darling.
You can't open it yet. You have to put all of them under the tree until morning.
Mommy, could Edward take me to Mrs. Farren's house to give her her present?
Wouldn't it be just the same, darling, if daddy dropped the present at Mrs. Farren's on his way to town tomorrow morning?
But it won't be Christmas tomorrow.
All right, Amy. Go tell Edward to take you.
to a situation) Really, Mr. Reed, there isn't anything to worry about. It was only a slap 
That's exactly what I told Mr. Reed, but he insisted upon remaining home from business to talk to you, Miss Callahan.
I'm so glad to have met you at last. You're just as nice as Amy told me you were. I hope you'll come to see us.
I'd love to.
Oh, hello.
Hello. I just met Amy and she pointed out where you live.
Oliver's pet, I'm sure it would be the first thing he'd grab if we ever had a fire.
I know how it is. My Dad collects miniature canon.
But it is a part of our lives too a part of our past, It's a Goya reproduction. Those three cats  are supposed to be the most beautifully drawn cats in Western art.
But you don't keep a cat, do you?
We don't even like them, I've often thought of giving it away, but Oliver wouldn't stand for it. It was his first wife's favorite picture. She was an artist.
I didn't know Mr. Reed had been married before.
Yes. As a matter of fact, I was on the point of telling you about it yesterday about Oliver's first marriage and his wife's death. It has so much to do with Amy although he'll never realize it.
That the old actress  Julia Farren?
Yes, She's a little odd, I understand.
But quite harmless, I'm sure.
Does she go up to the Farren's often?
No. I only let her go with Edward. It's alright.
I love the smell of pine.
It's one of the clearest memories I have. Twelfth night...burning pine... and mummers' plays.
It's been ages since I've even thought of a mummers' play. When I was in college we used to do them every year St. George and the Dragon, all kinds of sword dances.
Forgive me, but it was superstition ...foolish, childish wishes...that started, all this.
What do you mean?
I can see it all...the very day it began. Amy was lonely; she was desperate for friendship. I remember the night she told me she had wished on her ring. That must have been the day she first wished for a friend.
It's perfectly normal for a child to dream. I can see how a sensitive little girl, finding this portrait, would take the image of this woman and make of her an imaginary friend. That image dwells only in her imagination, and that image can go as quickly as it was born.
How?
Once the emptiness in Amy's life is filled, the dream will go of itself. If a up to you, both of you. Only you two can bring her into a real world.. You must give her the friendship and love she craves.
Wow. I never knew she had these kind of feelings.
You're a lucky guy.
She really loves me.
Ronald, email's for geeks and pedophiles. Be romantic. Write her another letter.
How will I get to her?
Hey Ronald.
It seems that you and I have some talking to do.
Can we do it later. I've had a really bad night and 
Where the hell do you come off hitting women?
What are you talking about?
Kathryn. Did you hit her?
Kathryn? Oh Christ, she got to you too?
Did you hit her?
Ronald, you don't know what you're talking about.
Don't know what I'm talking about? I know that you fucked Cecile.
Ronald, I'm sorry.
You bastard!
What time is it?
Eight o'clock. You got to go.
Did she show up?
Nope.
Do you mind if I check upstairs?
I can't have you do that, nor can I have you hanging around the lobby all day.
I understand. Thanks for letting me crash here.
Don't worry about it.
Did I ever tell you the time when my late husband sent me 
Yes, you already did.
I did?
Right after we played backgammon.
We played backgammon?
Uh huh. You beat me three times.
I did?
Yep. Then I fucked your daughter.
Excuse me?
I said, do you want some water?
Oh... no thank you...
Hi. Is Annette at home?
You must be Sebastian. I've heard such nice things about you.
It's desperate that I talk to her.
I've already told you, she's not home.
Well please leave a message that I called.
I'll do that.
What do you want?
I need to talk to Annette.
She's not here.
Do you know where she is?
She's out.
Do you know when she'll be back?
Later. Listen, we're entertaining some guests so 
Annette! Annette!
Young man, I already told you she's not here.
Fine. Could you please see that she gets this.
I'll do that.
It's really important.
I understand. Good night.
Who the hell do you think you are?!
Excuse me.
I'm paying you to give cello lessons. Not to pervert my child.
Mrs. Caldwell I think you're misunderstanding something.
Is that so?
Got me off the streets? I live on 59th and Park.
Whatever. You are never to set foot in this house again and you are never and I mean never to see my daughter again. Is that understood?!
First of all, maam, I never touched your daughter and second, I would like to think that in these times someone of your status could look beyond racial lines.
Oh don't give me any of that racist crap. My husband and I gave money to Colin Powell.
I guess that puts me in my place. Thank you for the hospitality Mrs. Caldwell. It was a true awakening.
I can't tell you how happy we are that Cecile is going to be attending Oakwood with you this fall. You've always been an inspiration to Beau and I on raising her. We just hope she can rise to the high standards which you've set for her.
I'll do my best.
You're too kind.
How do you do it? I mean with all peer pressuring that goes on in high school. Where do you get your strength?
I know this sounds corny, but whenever I feel temptations of peer pressure, I... turn to God and he helps me through the problem. Call me an anachronism, but it works.
That's beautiful.
Don't worry, it's totally understandable. Most of the boys that matriculate at Oakwood are very upstanding gentleman, however there are the occasional bad apples.
Like your stepbrother Sebastian. I can't believe they didn't expel him after what he did to the school nurse.
I got your message and came as quick as I could.
I hope I didn't keep you from something.
Not at all. What's wrong?
It's Cecile.
What about her?
Well... you promise you won't say anything to her. We've developed a friendship and...
Kathryn, you have my word. It isn't drugs is it?
It's worse. I think there's something going on between Cecile and her music teacher.
Ronald? That's crazy.
I know. She's so young and he's so 
Black.
I can't thank you enough.
You will be discreet about this?
Absolutely.
Let me get that for you.
Oh please. I can't have you do that.
It's the least I can do.
Cecile's attending Oakwood in the fall.
Outstanding.
Do you care to tell me what Mrs. Whitetrash and her stupid daughter are doing in my house?
I'm just taking the poor girl under my wing.
Lovely. How is your gold digging whore of a mother enjoying Bali? Zipping through my inheritance per usual?
Hopefully, though she suspects that your decrepit alcoholic father is diddling the maid.
Oh, poor baby. Well you can relax. I have a mission for you.
What?
Sorry.
In any event, my feelings were hurt when I learned that he had fallen for someone else. Someone chaste... pure... innocent.
You don't mean?
I don't find this very funny,
So that's what this is all about. We'll get together and plan your curriculum.
Keep your friends close and your enemies closer. When I get through with her, she'll be the premier Blow Job Queen of the TriState area and poor little Court's heart will be shattered.
Why go through Cecile? Why not just attack Court?
Because if there's an attack made on Court it could be traced back to me. I can't allow that to happen. Everybody loves me and I intend to keep it that way.
I see your point... though why should I care?
I need you to seduce our young Cecile. Introduce her to your world of decadence and debauchery.
Sounds intriguing.
She's quite cute you know. Young supple breasts, a tight firm ass and an uncharted pootie.
Why not?
Oh come on, Kathryn. It's too easy. "But I thought high school was only four years." I mean, please. She knows nothing. She's seen nothing. I could have her under the table at Au Bar sucking me off before the appetizer arrived. Go get one of those moron friends of yours to do it. I have a reputation to uphold.
Oh but diddling the therapist's daughter is a challenge?
That was just simple revenge. What I have planned requires sheer genius.
I'm not interested in the latest dating tips from Jonathan Taylor Thomas.
Shut up and turn to page 64.
Jesus Christ, is she for real?
Oh yes. I've read it over and over again. This baby's the real deal. Daddy's little angel. A paradigm of chastity and virtue.
B.F.D. What do you plan to do? Fly to Kansas and woo little Dorothy.
It just so happens we're not in Kansas anymore. Our little angel's father has accepted the new headmaster position at Oakwood. She's staying with my aunt up in Connecticut while Daddy sells his house. Can you imagine what this would do for my reputation? Screwing the new headmaster's virginal daughter before school starts? It will be my greatest victory.
You don't stand a chance. Even this is out of your league.
Care to make a wager on that?
I'll think about it...
Oh well, duty calls. Time to add another chapter to my work of art.
Oh gee, your journal. Could you be more queer?
Could you be more desperate to read it?
What are the terms?
If you lose, then that hot little Porsche of yours is mine.
And if I win?
I'll give you something you've been jerking off about ever since our parents got married.
Be more specific.
In English. I'll fuck your brains out.
What makes you think I'd go for that bet? That's a seventy thousand dollar car.
Because I'm the only person you can't control and it kills you.
You can put it anywhere.
Even there?
It would feel so yummy.
Fuck her yet?
I'm working on it.
Loser.
Blow me.
Call me later.
Okay.
You would not believe what
Shhh.
What's wrong with you?
You ready for this? I've recently discovered that our good friend Mrs. Caldwell is the one who sent the letter to Annette urging her to stay away from me.
Interesting.
I now plan to devote all my energies to destroying the douche bag. Any luck corrupting her daughter?
No.
Call Cecile up and get her to come over. I'll bust that cherry in a heartbeat.
The plot thickens. It appears that Cecile has fallen for her music teacher.
Ooo, I'm sure Mrs. Caldwell will love that.
Not to mention Court Reynolds. Unfortunately, Ronald's moving with the speed of a Special Olympic Bobsledder.
What's your plan of attack?
I rat Cecile out to mommy. Mommy goes ballistic and ends their relationship. Boo hoo.
But who will they turn to for help?
I'm at your service.
Thank you. Mmmm, that feels good.
Oh sis. You're so tense.
I hate when things don't go my way. It makes me so horny.
I hate it too.
Moving along quite well.
Have you succeeded in your task?
Any day now.
Well, let me know when you do. Until then.
Who are you calling?
Cecile.
Before we go through with this, I just want you to be aware of the damage we're going to cause.
I'm aware.
Are you really? I mean, we've done some pretty fucked up shit in our time but this... I mean, we're destroying an innocent girl. You do realize that.
What is that? Oh my God, it's your conscience.
You amaze me.
Eat me, Sebastian. It's alright for you to fuck everyone, but because I'm a girl it's wrong. Well let me tell you something, I didn't ask to be a girl. Do you think I relish the fact that I have to act like Mary Sunshine twenty four seven, so I can be considered a "laaaady." Do you think I take great delight when I hear  "Kathryn is so wonderful." "Kathryn is a model child." "Kathryn is going to make an excellent wife one day." I'm the Marsha fucking Brady of the upper East Side and sometimes I want to kill myself for it. No, I don't enjoy being a part of the weaker sex and for that reason everyone around me is going to suffer. So there's your psychoanalysis Doctor Freud. Now are you in or are you out?
I just had a nice chat with Cecile. I don't think she'll be giving you anymore problems.
Yippy.
Who are you spying on?
Take a look for yourself.
That her?
Yeah.
Jesus, she reeks of Laura Ashley. Oh, she's crying. Wittle baby's upset by the big bad book.
Shut up.
What's your problem?
Nothing.
She's really getting to you, isn't she?
If you must know, yes. I don't know what to do. I can't stand that holier than thou bullshit and yet, I'm completely infatuated with her. She made me laugh.
And that's why you're losing your bet?
I'm not losing the bet. It's just taking longer than I expected.
Do you mind if I take my new Porsche for a ride?
Kathryn, the only thing you're going to be riding is me. Now if you'll excuse me, I have some work to do.
Morning!
Morning.
So? How'd it go last night?
With who?
Well I know how it went with Cecile. She won't shut up about it. How'd it go with Mrs. Jesus?
If your asking if I nailed her the answer is no.
She shot you down.
Exactly the opposite.
So what went wrong?
I don't know. She was lying on the bed, ready to do it, but I I don't, I was... I just didn't feel right about it.
You're telling me you had the chance to fuck her and you didn't. God are you a chump.
A momentary lapse of judgment, soon to be rectified.
If you're heading towards her room, you won't find her.
Where is she?
You don't know? She left thirty minutes ago.
Where'd she go?
She wouldn't say. She apologized to your aunt and told her she was going to stay with some friends. You blew it, Sebastian. That girl has come to her senses and she will never go near you again.
Bad time?
Kind of.
Well, you obviously wanted me to witness your little adventure or else you wouldn't have invited me in.
You didn't?
Oh yes.
Tell me all the details.
It was... Fantastic.
Oh come on. For her first time?
I know. That's the amazing part of it. I mean, it wasn't like Cirque du Soleil acrobatics, just standard missionary stuff, but it was... ah forget it. I'm going to sound like a Hallmark card.
No, tell me.
It was... it was like the emotional part outweighed the physical part.
Wow. So you made love. Ooo, I hear the birds chirping.
Mock, mock, mock.
Some other time.
Excuse me?
I'm not in the mood.
And that's why you're leaving?
It clearly is why.
I want to fuck.
And I don't.
Oh my God. You're completely pwhipped.
No, I'm not.
Pwhipped, pwhipped.
What's wrong with you? Why are you acting this way?
I'm sorry. It's just upsetting. You're in love with her. You don't love me anymore.
Oh come on, Kathryn, it was just a contest.
At first it was, but now it's become something bigger.
Kathryn, you know I love you. I've always loved you.
Not anymore you don't. It's obvious.
I can't believe you're reacting this way. You're just saying this because you lost the bet.
Is that what you think?
That's not fair. You're taking all the fun out of it.
Then do me a favor and get rid of her. If not for me, then do it for you. Look at yourself. You're a joke. She's turned you into jelly. What do you want to be, one of those losers who walk down the halls holding hands and smiling. People used to respect you. They feared you and now you're going to throw that all away.
Why so nervous?
I've never done this before.
How have you dumped girls in the past?
Screening calls. Any suggestions?
I knew this guy last summer in the Hamptons. He and his girlfriend at the time were madly in love with each other. But she had this huge weight problem. His friends taunted him mercilessly about it. You know, "How do you breathe when she sits on your face?" "It's embarrassing for you to be seen with her." Finally he couldn't take it anymore and decided to dump her. She flipped and he went on the defensive. I distinctly remember him saying the same thing over and over again. "I'm completely fucked up." "I'm completely fucked up." "I'm completely fucked up." Poor fatty never had a chance.
A little melodramatic, don't you think.
I have a flair for drama.
Mind if I ask what you're doing in my room?
You wanted an answer to your question.
Annette?
Devastated beyond repair. I doubt she'll ever trust a man again.
Well done.
I thought we should celebrate.
I'd love to, but unfortunately I'm expecting some company.
Ronald?
Not that it's any of your business but yes.
Well done.
Thank you. Now, where were we?
To my triumph, of course.
Not my choice of toast, but it's your call. To your triumph over Annette.
Silly rabbit. My triumph isn't over her. It's over you.
Come again?
You were very much in love with her and you're still in love with her. But it amused me to make you ashamed of it. You gave up on the first person you ever loved because I called you names. Don't get me wrong, I'm flattered that you chose me over her, but please understand, I never loved you, Sebastian. You're just a toy. A little toy I play with. And now you've completely blown it with her. I think that's the saddest thing I've ever heard. Cheers.
In any event, you still owe me my reward.
I'm sorry, but unfortunately I don't fuck losers.
Get off me!
Will you calm down?
Fine! Get off me!
I'm very sorry about that. I apologize.
I accept. Now get out.
Get out? We had an arrangement.
Didn't you hear what I said?
I don't care what you said, we had an agreement. You've slept with half of the borough so don't tell me you're being choosy.
Get out!
I'm giving you to the count of three to plop your ass down on the bed.
And if I don't?
Then I will consider it a declaration of war. One. Two... three.
I think you have your answer.
War it is.
Pleased to meet you.
Likewise I'm sure.
What do you do? Tell her you love her.
But I can't even see her. She doesn't have her own phone, I don't even know her email address.
Hello.
Ronald?
Yeah?
It's Kathryn.
Hi Kathryn. Is everything okay?
No.
What's wrong?
It's Sebastian. He's out of his mind.
What do you mean?
I think he's high on drugs. He hit me, then took off. I'm afraid to be alone. Please come over.
I'll be right there.
And when I confronted him about his affair with Cecile he told me it was none of my business. Then when I said "Well what about Ronald," he said you were nothing more than a stupid... the n word and that you deserved what you got...
And this happened before you and I hooked up?
It's been going on for a while. Then he called me a disgrace to our family and that's when he hit me.
Racist piece of shit.
I'd be careful if I were you. God knows what he's up to.
He doesn't scare me. I'll kick his ass in.
Will you stay here for the night? You can leave in the morning. That's when my parents get back and 
Don't worry about it. I'll stay.
Oh baby... oh baby...
Baby? Right on time.
Hey Blaine, did I leave my... holy shit.
Jesus!
Greg, is that you under the covers?
Get out of here.
Whoa!
I told you to lock the door.
 really drunk and blah blah blah blah blah.
Please don't tell anyone. This could ruin my career.
Your career? What about your family? Can you imagine the humiliation your father's going to feel when he finds out his pride and joy is a fudge packer.
Annette Harrison? I don't know what you're talking about.
Come on Greg. You're the only one who knows her. The truth will save you.
I swear on my life, I never said a word to her about you.
Positive.
Did you do everything I asked you to?
Yes.
You told her I never said I love you before?
Yes!
You told her that people are jealous cause I'm loaded?
Yes!
And you think she bought it?
I'm pretty sure she did.
Pretty sure or sure sure?
She bought it.
I'll be in touch.
Is she with you?
Who is this?
Sebastian, you faggot. Is she with you?
No.
Where is she?!
I don't know. Why don't you leave her alone.
McConnell, I'm gonna out your ass in two seconds if you don't tell me where she is.
I told you I don't know.
One.
Alright. She's staying with some friends of her parents. The O'Sheas. She caught the train twenty minutes ago into Grand Central.
Grand Central. You better not be fucking with me cause it's your ass on the line.
Hi, mom.
Honey, is something wrong?
He told me he loved me and I believed him.
Who told you?
You don't know him. I'm so stupid.
Alright honey, just calm down, take a deep breath, and step out of the circle.
Would you cut the psycho babble bullshit, mom. There's pictures of me on the internet.
Nudie pictures, what do you think?
Jesus Christ, how can you be so stupid?
I don't know. He was just so charming. All he did was talk about how I had killer legs and how we wanted to photograph them. Things just got out of hand from there. Mom? Are you there? Mom? Mother!!!!
Jesus. We've been at this for six months.
I know.
And you haven't made an ounce of progress.
I know.
But you said you have the worst reputation.
I do.
Don't you want to change that?
Let me tell you something, doctor. Chicks love a guy with a bad rap. They say they don't, but they don't mean it. They all think that they're the ones that are going to "save me." The trick is to let them think it's true.
I think that's all the time we have for today.
Same time next week?
No. This is going to be our last session.
Why? I like spending time with you. You know, you're quite attractive for a woman your age. You have killer legs. Killer.
This isn't a joke. Your parents spend a lot of money to send you here. I'm trying to help you.
Don't be insecure, Doc. You're a big help.
You think you can come in here with that cute little smirk on your face and try and flirt with me. It doesn't work, Sebastian.
It works a little.
No it doesn't. I see right through you.
You do?
I hope for your sake you grow out of this immature phase. It's going to get you into trouble.
Well, you don't have to get nasty about it.
My daughter, Rachel.
Yummy.
Don't even think about it. Rachel is an exceptionally well rounded young woman, who happens to be attending Princeton this fall. She's way too smart to fall for your line of b.s.
Really? Care to make a wager on that?
Good luck, Sebastian.
What, nervous I'm going to win?
Would you please leave.
My father just took me on a trip to Australia.
How are things down under? Blossoming I hope.
What year are you in?
I'm what you would call a fifth year senior.
But I thought high school is only four years.
It is, unless you're a fuck up, like myself.
Excellent.
You think he'll like it?
He'll love it.
What are you doing?
Just taking your photo.
I look terrible.
Mmmm, you're right. Those clothes don't do you justice. Why don't you take them off.
I'm sorry that was out of line.
I want to go home.
I was just kidding.
I want to go home.
Okay, okay. I'll just call your mom and have her come pick you up.
My mom? Don't call my mom.
Why not? ... Oh wow, she doesn't know you're here. In fact, you're grounded. Jesus, you could get in a shitload of trouble for this. I think I should call her anyway.
Please please please. I'll do anything. Just don't call my mom.
Cecile, all I want to do is give you a kiss.
And then I can go home?
Of course. I'm not a monster.
Just a kiss, right?
I swear.
What are you doing?
You promised to let me kiss you.
But 
I don't want to kiss you here. I want to kiss you there.
Want to join me?
Some other time, Cecile.
Am I suppose to be this sore?
For the first time, yes. It'll pass.
I like it better when I'm on top.
Cecile. This is what I like to call quiet time. This is time when we reflect on what we've done.
I'm sorry.
You think?
Is it me?
No, you were fine.
Where are you going?
I'm taking a shower.
Need any company?
No.
Want a blow job?
Good night Cecile.
Prude.
What was that?
I was thanking her. Vietnamese is such a beautiful language.
I'll call you later and we'll get together and plan your curriculum.
Thanks. Nice meeting you.
So, rumor has it that you went on a date with Court Reynolds. I hear he's very nice.
He's alright. He kept talking about this bulimic headcase he dumped over Fourth Of July.
Really? Bulimic headcase.
What a loser she must be. Anyhow, Court's invited me to the Hamptons for Labor Day Weekend.
That's great.
You think so? I don't know. I guess I'm just scared.
What are you scared of?
Ah duh. Boys. I've never even gone to first base with a guy. What do I do?
Haven't you ever practiced with one of your girlfriends?
Eww. No. That's gross.
It's not gross. How else do you think girls learn? Here turn around and face me.
Are you for real?
Do you want to learn or not?
I guess. It still sounds gross.
See that wasn't so bad.
It was nothing.
Let's try it again, only this time I'm going to stick my tongue in your mouth. When I do that I want you to massage my tongue with yours. That's what first base is.
Okay.
Eyes closed.
That was cool.
Maybe you should try it on your friend Ronald sometime.
What are you saying?
Oh come on Cecile. He's crazy about you.
Is it that obvious?
That's so romantic. Have you responded?
No.
Well do you like him?
I don't know.
Cecile, we just made out in the middle of Central Park. You can trust me.
I do like him. I can't stop thinking about him.
Listen to me. Your mother must never know. Never.
Okay.
Did you hide the letters?
Yes. They're in this antique doll house in my room.
I want you to make me copies of his letters and bring them to me.
Why?
Cecile if there's one thing I'm great at it's love letters. With my help, he'll be eating out of the palm of your hand. Perhaps we can arrange a little get together for the two of you at my house.
You'd do that for me?
Of course I would. We're friends, right?
Best friends.
Who is it?
It's Kathryn.
Calm down. Tell me what's wrong.
Something awful happened last night.
What do you mean?!
I... I don't think you want to know.
Cecile, you have to tell me.
It involves your brother. He... took advantage of me.
Does your mother know?
If she knew, she'd kill me. It happened at your house last night.
Why didn't you do something?
I don't know.
So, let me get this straight. You came over to our house late last night and he forced intercourse on you.
Well... not exactly.
He made you give him a blow job.
No.
Well what then?
If that's what you call it.
Cecile, I think you're going to have a hard time crying rape if that's all he did.
What do I do then?
Well did you like it?
Well... I don't know  it was weird. At first it felt icky, then it felt kind of okay. Then, I started getting really hot and then I started shaking and then like, I don't t know... it felt like an explosion, but a good one.
Cecile, you had an orgasm.
I did?
I'm so proud of you. You're becoming a woman.
I am?
Now listen. Now that you're on your way, it would be stupid of you to stop. Think of Sebastian as a tutor. Let him instruct you.
I don't love him. I love Ronald.
So? Don't you want to make Ronald a happy pappy? Practice makes perfect, Cecile. My advice is to sleep with as many people as possible.
But that would make me a slut. Wouldn't it?
Cecile, everybody does it. It's just that nobody talks about it.
It's like a secret society.
That's one way of looking at it.
Cool.
What are the boys like?
Cecile, is that the best you can do? You must forgive her, Kathryn. She's never been in a coeducational atmosphere before.
Where did you find those?
Margarita found them while cleaning your room.
Those are my letters!
Don't you raise your voice at me. Go to your room, now.
I'm in the bath, mom.
Well hurry up. I want to be at Mrs. Rosemond's before lunch.
Okay.
Oh, I suck. I suck.
Relax. It's okay. Take a deep breath.
Ronald is one of the few high school students attending Juliard. He's composing his first opera.
It's based on the life of Doctor Martin Luther King.
Doctor King is my favorite.
Well, I guess it's getting late. Please thank Kathryn for the use of her Steinway.
I'll see you tomorrow.
Absolutely.
Unbelievable. Some fag, no offense 
 none taken 
 wrote a letter to this chick and saying shit about me.
Any ideas who it could be?
Blaine, if I knew who it was that person wouldn't be alive right now.
Where did you say she's from?
Kansas. Who the hell do I know in Kansas?
Greg McConnell.
The football stud?
He's from Kansas City. I wouldn't be surprised if he was your rat.
It would make sense. McConnell hates me. I fingered his girlfriend at the game last year.
I don't think that bothered him.
What do you mean?
Let's just say Greg likes tackling tight ends on and off the field.
Are you shitting me?
I shit you not. McConnell used to sneak in my dorm room drunk every month. We'd go at it for a while, then as soon as he'd cum, he starts freaking out. You know  "What are you doing, man? I'm not a fag. I'll kick your ass if you say anything." It's like, for Christsakes Greg, you're gay, deal with it. The only reason why I let him continue with his charade is because he's got a mouth like a Hoover.
Too bad he's in Kansas this summer.
Not anymore. Football team started practice last week. He's already called me to hook up.
Really. You think you could arrange a little get together with him tonight on my behalf?
Hmmm. I do believe Bravo is showing Spartacus on television tonight.
Outstanding.
Don't think it's not going to cost you.
No problem. Just make sure your front door is unlocked. Shall we say the "stroke of midnight" no pun intended?
I think he's telling the truth Valmont. Greg couldn't write a grocery list let alone a letter.
Alright, I believe you. Stop crying. Your secret's safe with me.
It's a beautiful home you have here Mrs. Rosemond.
Thank you, Annette. Chance Hill has been with my family for over sixty years. Does your family do much riding?
My mother and I used to ride a lot, before she got sick.
I'm sorry about that.
My Grandpa, used to breed horses on his farm so I would come over and ride all the time.
I'm familiar with a lot of breeders in the midwest. What's his name?
Ben Schwarz.
Schwarz. Jewish?
German.
Doesn't ring a bell.
So what year are you going into?
Junior.
Got a boyfriend back home?
No.
Why not?
I don't know. Relationships seem too distracting. I'd rather concentrate on my studies.
You a lesbo?
No.
Are you often this offensive on a first encounter?
I was just being honest. You happen to have a nice ass. Sorry.
I read your teen beat manifesto.
You did?
I must say I found it rather appalling.
That's a first. Most people praised me for it.
Most people are morons. I mean who are you to knock what you've never experienced?
I wasn't knocking anything. It's just my belief that people shouldn't actually experience the act of love until they are in love and that people our age are too immature to be in touch with those emotions.
Oh really?
Take yourself. You've slept with several women. Are you happier because of it?
How do you know I've been with several women?
A friend wrote me.
Well maybe you should get to know the person before you judge them instead of listening to some bullshit gossip.
I'm sorry. I didn't mean to upset you... but you still didn't answer the question.
Who the hell is taking the time to write letters, spreading this shit about me?
It's not really important.
Fine, forget it. It's obvious that we're not going to be friends.
Why are you being so dramatic?
Look, I've got a lot of problems and I'm trying to deal with them and the last thing I need is people spreading shit about me.
Alright, I said I was sorry. Can we start over again? I think we've gotten off on the wrong foot.
Excuse me. Excuse me!
You talking to me?
Look, I know this is your house and all, but do you think you couid keep it down? I'm trying to read.
What'cha reading?
The Fountainhead.
Great book.
You've read The Fountainhead?
Several times. I'm not as dumb as I act, you know. When Howard Roark makes love to Dominique Francon... most romantic scene in all of literature.
Romantic? He rapes her.
That's a matter of opinion.
You need help.
Why don't you come join me for a swim and we'll discuss it.
At this hour? I don't think so.
Oh come on. Quit acting like a geriatric and get in the pool.
Gee, with an invitation like that how could a girl refuse.
Please.
Give me a minute. I'll be right down.
Thank you.
You know it amazes me that someone as bright as you can be so horrible.
What? Another letter from your friend?
This is my favorite part. Even more treacherous and dangerous than he is charming and fascinating. He has never taken a single step or spoken a single word without some dishonorable or criminal intention. Every young girl he has successfully pursued has regretted it.
You know you could at least have the decency of telling me who's badmouthing me so I might have the opportunity to confront them face to face. How do you know it's not some girl who's pissed off at me for breaking up with her?
I sincerely doubt it.
Give me the fucking letter.
The last thing I need is you going into my room searching for this while I'm away.
Is that the last thing you need? My your clever.
How's the water?
Refreshing.
About what?
About what you said today in the stable. I'm not a happy person.
I never said that.
You implied it.
Look, I didn't mean to give you a hard time.
No, it's okay. I mean I look at you with all your morals and values and well, YOU seem to be happy in your choices. I envy you. No bullshit.
Thank you.
Seriously, you're amazing. You have everything going for you. You're smart, you're beautiful, you're determined. You're everything I want in a girlfriend.
Shut up.
I wasn't kidding. I'd like to take you out.
Look, I'm flattered but, seriously it could never work.
Why not?
Because you act like a pig.
Do you deny that there's an attraction between us?
I don't... I don't want to answer that... look we're friends.
You don't find me cute? Come on, look at these muscles.
I'm sorry, but you're not my type.
Fine. Friends it is. I can live with that.
You're naked.
It's my house.
That's repulsive.
What's the big deal? We're friends. Haven't you ever seen your friends naked before?
Need a lift?
No thank you.
How are you today?
Give it up.
Oh right, last night. I guess I owe you an apology.
I'm not going to speak to you till you realize that you can't intimidate me.
I said I was sorry.
It was fine.
I wish I could say the same for myself. I was up thinking about you all night.
I thought we agreed that we were going to be friends.
Yes, well unfortunately I can't just switch the "on" button to "off." The sad fact of the matter is that you've unintentionally rubbed off on me.
And that's a bad thing?
I'm trying to better myself, but the one person who can help me is the same one pushing me away.
I'm sorry, but I'm not here to be your savior.
Well try this one on for size. I think I'm falling in love with you.
You don't even know me.
Don't you believe in love at first sight?
Yes, but only when it's mutual. And this is far from mutual.
Ouch. Do you think we could spend some time together this morning?
I can't. I'm seeing a friend.
Who?
That's none of your business.
How about tonight?
I'm busy.
Doing what?
That's also none of your business.
Tell me what to do, Annette. How can I win your heart. I'll do anything. I can't get you out of my mind.
You truly want to do something to make me happy?
Yes.
And you promise to abide by it?
Without question.
Alright. I want you to leave and go back to New York.
What?
If that's a problem, then I'll make arrangements to stay with some friends.
I'll leave this afternoon. Happy?
It's not about being happy. You and I can't 
No, not at all.
Well, I was just calling to see how you're doing.
I'm... I'm alright.
How was your date?
It wasn't a date. He's just a friend.
Well, I was just calling to tell you I was thinking about you and I miss you. I'll let you go.
Wait, don't hang up.
Okay?
What are you doing?
Reading.
What are you reading?
Of Human Bondage.
Somerset Maugham.
Yeah, it's pretty relevant considering my situation.
You're not gonna start that again.
Sure. Have a good night.
I will.
Alone again. What are you up to today?
I'm doing some volunteer work.
Need any company?
You? Volunteer? I don't think so.
I don't know? Maybe I'd like it. I'm trying to change here. You could be supportive.
Okay.
Babe, you're looking at the next Mother Teresa.
It's weird. I actually feel good about myself. Can we do this again next week?
Oh please.
What?
"I actually feel good about myself?"
I do.
You must take me for a real idiot.
I don't.
You're going to tell me that you had a good time with the old lady.
I did. We played three games of backgammon and...
That's okay. It doesn't make you a bad person.
Yes it does.
No, it doesn't. I'm happy you're being honest with me.
I can't win with you.
It's not about winning. You know what your problem is? You take yourself way too seriously.
I do not.
Lighten up.
I am lighten. Can we drop this?
Fine.
Oh dear, are you actually laughing?
No.
No?
Am I bothering you?
Not at all. Have a seat.
My friend Monsieur Philipe is a friend of Florentino.
Who's Monsieur Philipe?
You don't know Monsieur Philipe?
Bonjour Monsieur Philipe.
You are very pretty. I would like to kiss you.
You know what? I don't take it back.
Why are you doing this?
Because I'm in love with you.
I thought you said we were going to be friends.
I can't handle it. I can't keep my feelings bottled up like you. Can you honestly tell me that you feel nothing for me? ... Tell me!
I have feelings for you.
Then what's wrong? I love you Annette. It's not like you have a husband, unless your married to Jesus.
That's not fair.
Why can't we be together?
You really want to know?
Yes.
It's because I don't trust myself with you. I took a vow and because of you I'm tempted to break it. Don't destroy that for me. Please.
I just came to say goodbye.
Where are you going?
Back to the city. I may take off to Europe for the rest of the summer. I just can't handle it around here.
I think that's for the best.
Good for you.
Sebastian, please. I don't want us to end on bad terms.
Well, I'm afraid you don't have a choice in the matter. You make me sick. You're a hypocrite and I don't associate with hypocrites.
How am I a hypocrite?
Oh please Annette. You spend all your time preaching about waiting for love. Well here it is. Right in front of you, but you're going to turn your back on it. I'm sorry that we're not at the age where we can get married. If we were, I'd propose, but that's not going to happen. So I guess we're just fucked. I'll move on, but you... you're going to have to live with yourself knowing you've turned your back on love. And that makes you a hypocrite.
Please don't go.
Get off me.
Hi.
Hi.
I'm fine. I have to get going to my friends' house. Was it 
It was perfect.
Hi.
Hi.
Would you like a tour?
Sure.
This isn't working out for me anymore.
Yeah, me neither.
It's not you, it's me. I'm completely fucked up.
What are you saying?
Why aren't you understanding?
I love you.
I know. I wish I felt the same. Unfortunately, I feel nothing. I think it was just the conquest. Sorry, I'm completely fucked up.
Why are you trying to hurt me?
I'm just being honest. I just wanted to see what you were like in bed.
You don't know how to love.
You don't even know me. The fact of the matter is there is some one I love. She's smarter, prettier... you don't even compare to her. The only reason I am here is because she wants us to be exclusive.
But you knew this was important to me.
What, your virginity? Well that's over now.
He told you he's failing in love with you? I've never known him to say those words before.
Really? I thought he said it all the time.
That's not his style. one thing I can say about Valmont. He always speaks the truth.
Nothing.
Is there a mutual feeling between you two?
No. I mean. I don't know. What else do you know about him?
Not a whole lot. We take some classes together. He's got a bad rep, but it's mostly bullshit.
What do you mean?
Well, a lot of people are jealous cause he's loaded.
I don't know. I've been hearing some awful things about him.
From who?
I can't tell you. I'm sworn to secrecy.
Annette, how long have we known each other?
Forever.
Now it's my job to look out for you. You're like a kid sister to me. Do I look like some kind of gossip queen?
You promise not to say anything?
On my mother's life.
Okay...
I'm Kathryn.
Annette Harrison.
Have we met?
I don't think so.
Did you know Sebastian well?
You might say that.
Now I remember. Annette Harrison. Your father's the new headmaster at Oakwood.
That's right.
I'm sure you're going to love it there.
Are you okay?
I'll be fine.
Well, I'll leave you alone now. I just came in here to get something of mine.
Thank you.
Look, I know this sounds corny, but whenever I feel like I can't go on I... turn to Jesus and he helps me through the problem. Call me an anachronism, but 
Oh cut the shit, Kathryn.
Excuse me?
You heard me.
Who the hell do you think you are coming into my house and saying those things to me. My brother is dead, have some respect.
Kathryn, I know all about you and Sebastian.
Sebastian was a pathological liar. I wouldn't believe a word he 
I have his journal.
You what?
His journal. He sent it to me the day before he died. Everything about you is in it. The blow jobs, the hand jobs, the menages, your bout with bulimia, the affair you had with your guidance counselor and how he gave you... eww. Let's see, then there's your coke problem... You still keep it in your crucifix, don't you? It's all in there.
You didn't show it to anybody?
Actually, I was planning on running down to Kinkos. Do you think you could give me ride?
You can't do this to me. It could ruin me.
I know.
An unexpected pleasure.
Bad news. Alot of action on the streets tonight, and nobody bothered to clear it with me. Tin Tin got himself whacked.
Who got himself what?
One of mine. And it wasn't a standard hit.
I had heard something like this. Describe it for me. The "hit".
I was wondering if you could tell me anything... about a wildcat operative.
I know of no one. But even if there is, I am sure it is nothing outside your capacity to deal with?
Anybody violates my turf  our turf  I'll rip out there heart and show it to 'em.
To be sure. Now tell how your friend died.
Sounds like our "Crow" is outmaneuvering you.
"Our" Crow...?
Come now. You've seen the graffiti  all over the city in the few hors it has taken your men to drop like plague victims. What about your turf, Top? You don't seem to have ripped out anyone's heart yet.
The night is young.
Do you think this childish machismo impresses me? When I was a boy in Saigon I watched my country change one block at a time, one building at a time. Whole lives erased. A way of life, polluted. Today, no one forces me to move. I use my powers to change your country, one block at a time, one building at a time.
Nice speech. What's it supposed to mean?
Your comprehension is not required. Your cooperation and, indeed, your ability are the issues on the table.
Did you see an animal of any kind? Did you see a bird?
No. I saw a guitar. This isn't some rocknroller you forgot to pay, is it? There was a drawing on the wall that looked like a bird. In blood.
What... the hell is that?
This is a cobra, Mr. Grange. Yes, it is real.
That thing is poisonous.
Extremely so. You and I are the recipients of unwanted good fortune, in the form of a man everyone is calling The Crow.
Give me a break. That guy's a wacko...
I intend no slight to you, but I cannot find the English to adequately express just what he is. I suppose Western mythology would describe him as a Fury.
Not a Plymouth Fury, I bet.
Do you know of spirit assassins? You do know the dead can rise? Properly motivated, of course.
Like some sort of zombie on a revenge trip.
Mmm. But tonight I can take what is his.
Only thing you'll get from that clown is a faster way to die. LAO To the contrary...
Who is only invulnerable so long as he cares about the dead. When he begins to care about the living, you'll find his heart can bleed... and I want it to bleed for me.
Kill a dead guy?
We've got company.
Is he inside?
I've got him if you want him.
No shooting.
Move in, guys.
Blow yourself, bigmouth.
Whoa, hey, whoa. Business.
Coupla more rings... 24k.
18k. Crap.
...necklace... pearls...
Nineteen bucks at Sears. Fake,
Leather purse...
What's this  a little, ah, bloodstain, right? Fifty bucks for the box, and I'm doin' you a 
Yeah, I know, fatso. Do us all a favor. Make Top Dollar smile.
What the hell are you?
Interested? Follow the crow.
Having fun yet? No? I'll give you a hint. Remember whatshername?
Shelly?
Miss her?
Yes.
Kill the men who killed you both, and the Day of the Dead will be your reunion.
Get it?
Leave me alone  !
Glad to see you're finally with the program.
Bugger off to the graveyard, skull face, I'm busy.
You work for the dead. Forget that, and you can forget it all.
Getting a little ambitious and extracurricular, aren't we?
Go away.
You need to learn to mind your own business or you'll never get where you think you're going.
Shut up.
Maybe I was wrong about you.
Your job is done. You interfere with the living again.
Tell me I'll get hurt. That I might die. I've already done that. I don't need anyone's help. Yours included.
Do this thing and you will be vulnerable. The blood will not return. No powers. No reunion. Nothing.
Fine with me.
You'll be alone.
I'm already alone.
Don't waste my time.
Very well, it's your ass.
How the hell did you do that?
Magic.
Neither.
Yeah, I got a more fun idea myself.
Owwwaaaa  fuck me! Look what you did to my sheets, you lame piece'a shit! AAAAaa! Goddd!
Does it hurt?
Does it hurt?! You deadass, clownfaced fuck, of course it fucking hurts! What the shit are you gonna do about this?!
No, wait, no WAIT, that's too much, man, that's like overkill, nobody can take that much, you're wasting it  !
Your pain ends now.
I believe our friend Elly call you Mister Crow. Please acknowledge; the mike will pick you up.
I can see her.
Of course you can. ANGLE  GRANGE IN THE GALLERY  in darkness. The running lights on his nightscoped, lasersighted sniper's rifle which THROWS vague sprays of eerie red and green light.
I wish to possess what you have now.
I want the girl. Unharmed. Now.
I know. That is why I will prevail. Mr. Grange... ?
Sooner or later, my action were destined to bring me a genuine Fury. And it turned out to be you. At last. I appreciate your abilities as few mortals can. That's why I desire them.
You're too late. There was a guy outside  on the stairs  you really need to talk to. But he turned to dust and blew away. I don't have any power for you to take.
I don't believe that. Lao motions to Grange with the killing blade. Grange RELAXES his deathgrip on the crow. MOVE IN CLOSE on Eric so we may perceive a palpable degree of relief.
And how many lives have you destroyed?
I took yours from you. Your little girlfriend? I took hers, too. Your meaningless, petty life? I took it so that tonight your existence might gain a purpose. You're no avenger. You're mine.
Cute nickname, don't you think?
I ain't got no fuckin' ring.
Wrong answer.
Top Dollar.
Another jolly nickname?
You want those assholes, you want Top Dollar.
TBird?
Like the car. He hangs out with Skank. that little asshair, and they hang at the Pit  hell, Funboy lives there. Ask Top Dollar.
A whole club of pirates, with pirate names...
Top Dollar, you're the only one here still wasting good air...
Five large, in the drawer right over there. I never saw you.
Do you know what you destroyed?
Take the dope, too.
A year ago. A very nice lady circulated a petition. She died. Last Halloween. Answer yes or no.
That's ancient history.
It's yesterday! Do you know what you destroyed?
Who gives a fuck! I'm a businessman. You gonna do me, then do me and shut you're face!
You don't even remember...
I never forget anything, dickhead. That building was a sweepand clear; the bitch was a nuisance with her goddamned petition. It got a little rowdy... end of story.
Rowdy. Let me fill in some gaps for you.
Little early from trickortreat, homie. This dick trying to bushwack me.
Murderer.
A year ago. Halloween. A man and a woman. In a loft. You helped to murder them.
Last Halloween, eh? Yeah... Yeah, I remember. I fucked her too, I think.
You cut her. You raped her. You watched!
Hey, I got my rocks off, so fuck you in the ass, man.
I want you to tell me a story, TinTin.
I don't know you...
Holy shit... you're dead, man...
Victims. Aren't we all.
I know your friend, too  the one that looks like a rock star.
I don't know you.
I'd like to get in touch with him.
You're not a cop, either. What do you want him for?
I'm looking for a good guitar man.
Right.
You buying? He kinda wanders around. You'll see him if you pay attention.
I need to find him kind of soon, Elly.
What's goin' on, Elly?
I went to see a friend of mine.
Well, how's your friend?
She's still dead.
Chili dog for breakfast... it's original.
Mom tried to cook.
Oh.
You look like a rock star without a job.
I dabble. May I?
My mom works over there. I'm waiting for her, but she's probably with him, right now.
Who?
Mister Funboy.
Mister Funboy lives there?
He has a room, upstairs. I don't like him very much.
I can pick out a tune now and again.
Can you play "Teddy Bears' Picnic?" It used to be her favorite.
Does she have a name?
No name. You sure ask a lot of questions.
Do you feel okay.
No.
You gotta go now, I bet.
I have to go.
What's going on...?
A remembrance. A closure.
You brought flowers. As long as you don't forget her, Elly, she lives.
She's dead. She's gone. And now you're just gonna go away and never come back, too. I hate this place; it isn't fair.
Elly...
I remember him! Here, Gabriel... here kitty... Gabriel... Is he still yours?
I think he's yours, now.
Shelly would've wanted you to have it. This way, you'll think of her every time you see it...
And she'll be alive. Up here.
Now do you get to see her? Shelly, I mean.
In a better place. I hope.
You're not gonna come back, are you?
I don't know if I can. But you have this... and you know where to come.
You mean you'll, like' dig your way out of the grave? Euww.
Hey, Darla  before we die of old age, how about it ?
Out. Now. I gotta work.
Oh wow, oh wow, don't fucking do that, man. I nearly had a fucking heart attack.
Fun  look at that guy...
It's just the dope, don't worry
Fun, he's not going away; he's scaring the piss outta me!
Not me.
Mom ?
I told you you're not supposed to come in here.
I lost my key.
I was wonderin' where you'd gotten to  Oh, Elly, honey, a cat. Here?
He was a present. Besides, we're moving anyway. You said.
We'll discuss this later. Obviously. You left the door open.
At least it finally stopped raining.
It can't rain all the time.
And I say I'm dead... and I move.
No further. I'm serious.
Are you nuts, walking into a gun?
You must listen carefully: the Fire Department will be here soon. There is an injured man in the alley who needs assistance. As Shelly Webster once needed your assistance, and as you are shortly going to need my assistance.
Listen: Top Dollar. He "owns the street here." He will "erase my ass."
You don't say.
I know Top Dollar has turned your streets into his hell.
Fucking A, my friend.
The others are called Skank, T Bird. Street names. Funboy. Watch me, office Albrecht.
You, my friend, are dead. I saw your body. You got buried.
I saw it, too.
You died, man. I can't believe it but here you are. Last year, you and your girlfriend 
I need you to tell me what you remember. What happened to us?
You went out the window. She was beaten and raped. She died in the hospital.
You okay, man? I mean, what just happened.
The venom of bad memories. You were there; you saw her. I saw you seeing her.
My name.
I'm sorry as hell, man.
Thirty hours. A day of life, plus change...
Halloween is coming, soon. You will have Top Dollar if you watch for me at the Showtime, tomorrow night.
I should be trying to stop you.
Thank you. For giving a damn.
My pleasure. ERIC Don't smoke these.
It's done. ALBRECHT I figured as much. Did you cap off Funboy.
Funboy had to leave this mortal coil.
Yeah, among others. Hey, man  you're hit.
It's only a flesh wound.
It's only fourteen or fifteen flesh wounds.
I mean, I've done what I came to do. It shouldn't hurt this much. But it will pass...
Right. You sure I can't just take you to the emergency ward?
They couldn't do anything for me.
How 'bout the morgue?
No. I have one more thing to do.
You sorta looked like you might need my help.
This isn't your place. This isn't your fight. And I don't need your help.
You're welcome.
Leave here. Don't do this. I don't want you here.
The hell you say. This isn't just about you any more.
Don't interfere.
You're bleeding, man. You can't make it.
Whatever it is, the answer's no, Eddie. I'm too busy tonight.
Annie, I need a file.
Speak up. Clear it with the Captain if you need a file.
This is special, darlin'. Please?
Just don't tell me you "owe me one." What file?
Double homicide. A year ago. Las Halloween.
Don't thank me. Your ass is already in enough trouble for this shit.
I knew that.
Could be.
You gonna wind up working at a school crosswalk. that doughnut's chocolate you, know.
Well, hello there...chocolate,
Don't thank me.
Thanks, babe.
Talent. Hi.
Care for a hot dog?
You buying?
I'm buying.
No onions though, okay?
No onions?
They make you fart.
Sure it coulda. Funboy's not here, neither is TBird  none of Top Dollar's number ones.
You know, you sure got a hardon for a guy that's guilty of zip on paper. Top Dollar runs Showtime; what's the matter, don't you like adult entertainment?
This sack of shit is called Tin Tin.
Don't any of your little pals have real, grown up names?
He was a runner for Top Dollar. Just muscle.
Was. ALBRECHT This isn't Top Dollar's style anyway. This was somebody else. Somebody new.
And you're gonna tell me who.
Who ever made that.
What in the hell... do you call that?
I call it blood, Detective. If you want, you can call it graffiti.
This is Li's personal sword, a great hero's weapon! He is the only one in the world worthy of carrying it. It's too fine a gift. I cannot accept it.
Sir Te! It has brought him as much trouble as glory. Help him to leave these troubles behind. Otherwise, he'll never be able to start anew.
All right. I'll act as the sword's custodian.
You've always been so good to Li Mu Bai and me. Please accept our thanks.
Please do not be such a stranger. You'll stay the night as my guest. Now, Shu Lien... tell me something. And forgive me for prying. Your father was a great friend to me, and I think of you as my own daughter.
Please, Sir Te, what is it?
Li Mu Bai giving up his sword and his warrior days... maybe he's trying to tell you something?
I don't know...
Don't be coy. I've always known about your feelings for each other. All these years, it's a shame... neither of you is brave enough to admit the truth to the other. You're both wasting precious time.
I beg your pardon. Li Mu Bai and I aren't cowards.
When it comes to emotions, even great heroes can be idiots. Tell me if Li Mu Bai is not more open the next time you see him. I'll give him an earful!
Has Governor Yu ever seen the sword?
Yes, though I doubt he's involved in this.
But the sword could be in his compound.
Then someone's trying to set him up. We should inform Li Mu Bai.
We must be careful. Governor Yu is a court official, and in charge of security. Any disturbance will cast suspicion on him. It might get Sir Te in trouble.
This is a delicate matter.
Sir Te, can you find some excuse to invite Madam Yu and her daughter?
What do you have in mind?
The best way to trap a fox is through her cubs.
It's Jade Fox!
We must avenge mother!
You're mistaken. We're just street performers. We were rehearsing.
Father!
They're gone.
What does it say?
"We'll settle this at midnight on Yellow Hill." Good, the fox is out of her hole.
If you surrender now, you'll suffer less. But if you resist, I won't stop until you're dead.
Father! Let me avenge my mother's death.
Madam Te is certainly spoiling us with these wedding gifts. She's being so considerate.
I'm sorry she's not feeling well enough to receive you today.
I heard Sir Te lost something. And now Madame Te's not feeling well...
We know who stole the missing item. If the thief returns it, I'm sure Sir Te will pursue the matter no further.
That's good. Sometimes the help can't keep their hands to themselves. It's very embarassing.
Sir Te knows that even wellmeaning people can make mistakes... that can bring ruin to themselves and their families.
But don't be too lenient.
No mercy will be shown toward the murderer who turned up in Peking.
A murderer?
Yes. The very killer of Li Mu Bai's own master. Last night, she killed a policeman who had tracked her down.
A female criminal! Now that's news!
Maybe the murderer and the thief are one and the same.
I doubt it. This thief... it very unusual...
Mu Bai...It's been too long.
It has. How's business?
Good. And how are you?
Fine.
Monk Zheng said you were at Wudan Mountain. He said you were practicing deep meditation.
Yes.
The mountain must be so peaceful... I envy you. My work keeps me so busy, I hardly get any rest.
I left the training early.
Why? You're a Wudan fighter. Training is everything.
During my meditation training... I came to a place of deep silence... I was surrounded by light... Time and space disappeared. I had come to a place my master had never told me about.
You were enlightened?
No. I didn't feel the bliss of enlightenment. Instead... I was surrounded by an endless sorrow. I couldn't bear it. I broke off my meditation. I couldn't go on. There was something... pulling me back.
What was it?
Something I can't let go of. You are leaving soon?
We're preparing a convoy for a delivery to Peking.
Perhaps I could ask you to deliver something to Sir Te for me.
The Green Destiny Sword? You're giving it to Sir Te?
I am. He has always been our greatest protector.
I don't understand. How can you part with it? It has always been with you.
Too many men have died at its edge. It only looks pure because blood washes so easily from its blade.
You use it justly, you're worthy of it.
It's time for me to leave it behind.
So what will you do now?
Come with me to Peking. You can give the sword to Sir Te yourself. It'll be just like old times.
First I must visit my master's grave. It's been many years since Jade Fox murdered him. I have yet to avenge his death. And yet I'm thinking of quitting. I must pray for his forgiveness.
Join me once you have finished. I can wait for you in Peking.
Perhaps.
Sir Te believes it's a ploy cast suspicion on Governor Yu.
But something is going on at the Yu household.
What have you discovered?
Jade Fox? Impossible.
You always suspected she'd fled to the West.
I didn't think she'd dare come back to Peking!
Is there any place safer than under the nose of Governor Yu?
So I shall avenge my master's death after all.
Be careful. Sir Te requires discretion. Official business is difficult enough. Don't let personal feelings make it worse. And I don't know... even this poster... could be some sort of trap.
Did you see who posted it?
No.
It says Jade Fox is hiding at Yu's. On the night of the theft there was a brawl near Yu's. Were you involved?
It was Bo, Sir Te's man. I hear he followed the thief to the Yus'.
Have you questioned him yet?
No, not yet...
But your men are watching over Yu's compund?
No, I'd already sent them home. You can blame me for losing the sword, but please trust that I'll get it back soon using my own methods.
That's not what I meant. I don't care about the sword.
What do you mean? Didn't you come back here for it?
I don't know it was stolen until I got here.
Then, why did you come?
Well, we had talked...
I admit, getting it back makes me realize how much I'd missed it.
But it's not your sword anymore. You gave it to Sir Te.
True. But I must borrow it for one last mission. Jade Fox must die at its edge. Did you know what you were hiding when you covered for that girl?
My job was to get the sword back, without embarassing anyone. I wasn't about to ruin her life, or her father's.
You did your job well. But, this girl... I saw her last night.
I knew she would intrigue you.
She needs direction... and training.
She's an aristocrat's daughter. She's not one of us. In any case, it will all be over soon. You'll kill Fox, and she'll marry.
That's not for her. She should come to Wudan and become a disciple.
But Wudan does not accept women.
For her, they might make an exception. If not, I'm afraid she'll become a poisoned dragon.
It's not our affair. Even if Wudan accepts her, her husband might object.
I thought by giving away the sword, I could escape the Giang Hu world. But the cycle of bloodshed continues.
I wish there were something more I could do to help you.
Just be patient with me, Shu Lien.
You think Jade Fox will show up?
She's out there, but I doubt she'll show herself. We'll keep our eyes open. Sooner or later, she'll come for the girl.
Don't you want to see her again.
All right. I'll write you an introduction. Take it to Wudan. Wait there for news from me.
Shu Lien... The things we touch have no permanence. My master would say... there is nothing we can hold on to in this world. Only by letting go can we truly possess what is real.
Not everything is an illusion. My hand... wasn't that real?
Your hand, rough and callused from machete practice... All this time, I've never had the courage to touch it.
Giang Hu is a world of tigers and dragons, full of corruption... I tried sincerely to give it up but I have brought us only trouble.
To repress one's feelings only makes them stronger.
You're right, but I don't know what to do. I want to be with you... just like this. It gives me a sense of peace.
We're close to your headquarters. Go home and check in.
What about you?
I'll look around and catch up later.
Not a bad idea. Tonight we'll get a good night's sleep at headquarters.
What happened?
Jade Fox drugged her. How did you get here?
We followed Jade Fox.
My blood will soon reverse its flow. It's the same poison she used to kill my master. There is no antidote.
That can't be! Everything has an antithesis! Why not this?
Mu Bai, hold on. Give me some hope...
Shu Lien...
Save your strength.
My life is departing. I've only one breath left.
Use it to meditate. Free yourself from this world as you have been taught. Let your soul rise to eternity with your last breath. Do not waste it... for me.
I've already wasted my whole life. I want to tell you with my last breath... I have always loved you. I would rather be a ghost, drifting by your side... as a condemned soul... than enter heaven without you. Because of your love... I will never be a lonely spirit.
Lo?
Jen!
You shouldn't have come.
With all the traffic on your rooftop these days... it took me a while to get in here. I can't wait any longer. I was wrong to let you go. Come back with me. You'll be happy in the desert. You'll be free there.
Let's stop a moment.
Give it back!
You're tired. You need rest. Your horse needs water. There's a creek up here.
Well, there used to be! What's your name? I'm Lo. The Hans call me Dark Cloud. I'm not that tall or big, but I'm quick as lightning.
My comb!
You've got quite a temper. It's better this way.
You coward!
Still in a bad mood? At least you're speaking. What's your name?
No more hitting on the head! All this trouble for a comb?
It's mine. It means a lot to me. A barbarian like you wouldn't understand.
Not true. I can use it to pick fleas from my horse.
By the way, I'm a real Manchurian.
I'm sorry... I guessed wrong. I though you were a Han.
Give me back my comb.
I don't take orders from anyone.
Give it back.
When I was a boy, one night, I saw a thousand shooting stars. I thought, where did they all go? I'm an orphan. I used to look for stars alone. I thought if I rode to the other end of the desert, I'd find them. I've been riding in the desert ever since.
And so, the little boy became a fearsome bandit. He couldn't find the stars, so he stole my comb.
Out here, you always fight for survival. You have to be part of a gang to stand a chance. Slowly, your gang becomes your family. All that Dark Cloud stuff is just to scare people and make my life easier.
So you're still that little boy looking for shooting stars.
I am a man. And now I've found the brightest star of all.
Your father's men are still looking for you. They're still out there, circling closer.
Let them look.
It is trouble for me.
Don't send me back!
You must decide. You might get tired of this life. You might begin to miss your family. If it were our daughter, we'd look for her too. She would miss us. Jen... I want you to be mine forever. I will make my mark on the world. I will earn your parents' respect. We have a legend. Anyone who dares to jump from the mountain, God will grant his wish. Long ago, a young man's parents were ill, so he jumped. He didn't die. He wasn't even hurt. He floated away, far away, never to return. He knew his wish had come true. If you believe, it will happen. The elders say, "A faithful heart makes wishes come true."
Keep it safe. Return it to me when we are together again.
I will.
If you don't, I'll come after you. And I won't let you off so easy.
Go.
Jen...
Don't ever come back.
Do you remember the legend of the young man?
"A faithful heart makes wishes come true."
Make a wish, Lo.
Stop it! You don't deserve the Green Destiny.
Not another lecture! On guard!
Let's end this here.
Only the sword will settle this.
What do you want?
What I've always wanted, to teach you.
All right. If you can take back the sword in three moves, I'll go with you.
Give it back!
Kneel!
Never!
Then you have no use for the sword.
The antidote exists. She taught it to me. The formula is simple, but it takes time to prepare. Trust me. As you have helped me, let me help you.
All right. Hurry. I will hold on as long as I can.
It's heavy for such a thin piece of metal!
The handle is heavy. And the blade is no ordinary metal. Still, the sword is the lightest of weapons. You're just not used to handling it.
But I have had much practice. As a child in the West, a platoon lived with us. They'd let me play with their weapons. The scabbard is so beautiful.
Beautiful but dangerous. Once you see it tainted with blood, its beauty is hard to admire. It's 400 years old.
Exquisite! You said it belongs to...
My friend Li Mu Bai. He's given it to Sir Te as a gift.
Li Mu Bai! The famous warrior? Why would he give his sword to Sir Te?
You're too young to understand.
You're a sword fighter too?
Yes, I am. But I prefer the machete. Certain moves, however, call for a sword.
Really?
It must be exciting to be a fighter, to be totally free!
Fighters have rules too: friendship, trust, integrity... Without rules, we wouldn't survive for long.
I've read all about people like you. Roaming wild, beating up anyone who gets in your way!
Writers wouldn't sell many books if they told how it really is.
But you're just like the characters in the stories.
Sure. No place to bathe for days, sleeping in fleainfested beds... They tell you all about that in those books?
You know what I mean. I'm getting married soon, but I haven't lived the life I want.
So I heard. Congratulations. It's the most important step in a woman's life, isn't it?
You're not married, are you?
What do you think?
No! You couldn't roam around freely if you were.
You're probably right.
I've missed you.
How so?
I'm bored.
You're doing calligraphy?
I'll write your name. Just for fun.
You write gracefully. Calligraphy is so similar to fencing.
Maybe it is. I wouldn't know.
Please.
Thank you for seeing me. I hear your wedding day is near. You must be overwhelmed by the preparations.
I'm hardly doing a thing. The less I think of it the better. My parents are arranging everything. The Gous are a very powerful family. My marrying one will be good for my father's career.
You are fornuate to marry into such a noble family.
Am I? I wish I were like the heroes in the books I read. Like you and Li Mu Bai. I guess I'm happy to be marrying. But to be free to live my own life, to choose whom I love... That is true happiness.
Do you think so? Let me tell you a story.
About you and Li Mu Bai?
Yes. Did you know I was once engaged to be married?
No, really?
His name was Meng Si Zhao. He was a brother to Li Mu Bai by oath. One day, while in battle, he was killed by the sword of Li Mu Bai's enemy. After, Li Mu Bai and I went through a lot together. Our feelings for each other grew stronger. But how could we dishonor Meng's memory? So the freedom you talk about, I too desire it. But I have never tasted it.
Too bad for Meng, but it's not your fault, or Li Mu Bai's.
I am not an aristocrat, as you are... but I must still respect a woman's duties.
Don't distance us. From now on, let's be like sisters.
Then as a sister, let me wish you happiness in your marriage.
You say she killed a policeman?
Yes, from the West. He went undercover and and followed her here,
Here you must be in proper attire.
I'm just borrowing some clean clothes. I'm not staying.
I'll give them to you.
I was just passing by and wondered how you were.
You, sister...
Look at the trouble you've caused. Now you know what Giang Hu life is really like. If you think of me as your sister, let me give you some sisterly advice. You can run from marriage, but not your parents.
They forced me to marry!
Go back to them first. Then you can decide about Lo.
You know about Lo?
He really loves you. Come back to Peking with me. We'll find a solution.
Where is he now?
Li Mu Bai has made arrangements. He sent him to Wudan Mountain.
You're working together to set me up! I'm leaving!
How dare you accuse us? I always knew you had stolen the sword! I've done nothing but protect you and your family. And you're repaid me with nothing but contempt. Li Mu Bai himself spared you, and all you do is insult him. We wanted some peace and you've ruined it all! You're no sister of mine!
What do I care? You were never a real friend anyway. But I wonder, how long could you last as my enemy?
Don't touch it! That's Li Mu Bai's sword.
Come and get it if you can.
Without the Green Destiny, you are nothing.
Don't be a sore loser. Go ahead. Take your pick. I'll wait. Go ahead.
You can't die! Tell us what poison you used! You can't die! Tell us the antidote! You can't let Li Mu Bai die!
She used Purple Yin... Purple Yin poison. It goes straight to the heart.
Take my horse and go to the compound. Give this to Mrs. Wu. She'll help you. Hurry!
Spare your energy. I'll be back!
Please sit.
I've made you silk pajamas. Do you want to change into them?
Put them down.
I heard you met Shu Lien today.
Do you know her?
She's one of those. Your mother would not want you consorting with her kind.
I'll socialize with whomever I please.
Don't invite danger into your father's house.
I'm tired now.
Go to bed then. Miss has grown up, and is getting married soon. God knows what the future will bring.
It will be just the same. Enough! I'm tired.
Autumn is coming. I'll shut the windows for you.
This spells trouble.
I have a guest.
Hello. What is your name?
Long.
In that case, perhaps we could be of assistance.
Don't bother.
You don't seem to understand.
So what if I don't?
Are you related to Li Mu Bai?
He is my defeated foe!
You're home late... or should I say early?
Why are you still here? You killed a policeman. You should leave! You'll bring ruin on my whole family.
They wouldn't have found me if you hadn't stolen the sword. Like a little girl, you thought stealing would be fun? You, too, are responsible for that death. Come with me. You don't want to waste your life as the wife of some bureaucrat. Denied your talent... As a master and disciple we will rule.
I'll never live as a thief!
You're already a thief.
That was just for fun. How can I leave? Where would I go?
Wherever we want. We'll get rid of anyone in our way. Even your father.
Shut up!
It's the Giang Hu fighter lifestyle... kill or be killed. Exciting, isn't it?
I owe you nothing.
Yes, you do! You are still my disciple.
You think you've been teaching me all these years from the manual? You couldn't even decipher the symbols!
I studied the diagrams. But you hid the details!
You wouldn't have understood, even if I had tried to explain. You know... you've gone as far as you can go. I hid my skills so as not to hurt you.
If I hadn't seen you fight with Li Mu Bai, I'd still be ignorant of all you've hidden from me.
Master... I started learning from you in secret when I was 10. You enchanted me with the world of Giang Hu. But once I realized I could surpass you, I became so frightened! Everything fell apart. I had no one to guide me, no one to learn from.
Believe me, I've a lesson or two left to teach you!
Who are you? Why is the Green Destiny in your possession?
What's it to you?
My name is Li Mu Bai. The Green Destiny is mine. Jade Fox can't be your master. Where did you learn that "Xuan Piu" move?
I'm just playing around.
Tell me, who is your master?
Let's go!
Isn't it a bit too late to be out? You've brought me the sword?
I do as I please.
Where's your master?
What's it to you?
Do you think you are a real master?
Like most things, I am nothing. It's the same for this sword. All of it is simply a state of mind.
Stop talking like a monk! Just fight!
Then tell me where Jade Fox is.
On guard!
Real sharpness comes without effort.
Go ahead.
Why should I? You need practice. I can teach you to fight with the Green Destiny, but first you must learn to hold it in stillness.
Why do you want to teach me?
I've always wanted a disciple worthy of Wudan's secrets.
And if I use them to kill you?
That's a risk I'm willing to take. Deep down, you're good. Even Jade Fox couldn't corrupt you.
Who are you?
Wait! I'm a friend!
I don't care about your sword.
Why were you spying on the Yus?
I'm looking for someone. Jade Fox. I'm a police inspector from Shaan Xi, Gen Su district. Jade Fox is a master criminal. I hear she infiltrated the Yus. She must have come with them when they transferred here. But with Yu's reputation, I can't just go in and accuse her.
This Jade Fox is a woman?
Yes.
Then leave her to me.
Pardon me, but I doubt you can handle her. My wife was quite a martial arts expert. Jade Fox killed her. So you see, this is personal. Leave her to me.
You're back!
How's the arm? Still sore?
Much better. You've been gone so long.
Li Mu Bai is coming to stay the night.
I'll go and make up his room!
She's crazy. You should have killed her.
I didn't have the heart.
Well, Li Mu Bai can do it.
Frankie, I 
 Shut up! Don't you try to make me feel bad about this. You knew what would happen to you if you didn't pay. This is on your head, not mine. Break his arm.
Jesus, Frankie, I'm your brother!
That's why we're only breaking one arm.
She seems pleasant enough.
She doesn't know. She thinks I fell down the stairs.
That's good. That's what a standup guy does.
So, I just come by to see how you're doin'?
You broke my arm. How the hell do you think I'm doin'?
Yeah. I mean besides that. They treating you all right? Food okay?
Yeah. I'm going home today. What do you want, Frankie?
I don't want anything. I just wanted to say... that I may have... overreacted a little the other day.
A little?
Yeah. I mean, you are my brother and... well I should have found another way of expressing my disappointment. So, I've decided to make it up to you.
You gonna forget about the money I owe you?
What are you nuts? A debt is a debt. I was thinking I'd throw a little extra work your way. You know, you come down to the club, make espresso for the boys... wash their cars... run some errands... things like that.
What's this?
A car.
Oh really? Thanks. I thought it was a sewing machine. What the hell is it doing here?
It's for you.
For me? What am I going to do with a piece of shit like this?
I don't know. Sell it. It's gotta be worth something. Someone gave it to me. C'mon Frankie, I'm trying to make good here.
Okay. Okay.
I'll get you the papers tomorrow.
I wasn't expecting this many of you. I've got a few sleeping bags you can use.
Thanks.
When do we go?
Tonight.
You ever hear of jet lag?
Take a nap.
You like shoes?
No, I like the bag. It would be good for the job tonight.
It belongs to Vincent Bastaldi. He left it last time he was here. I'm sure he wouldn't mind if you used it.
So, how did you get hooked up with these guys?
Just lucky I guess. How'd you start working for the Bastaldi's?
The art world doesn't fully appreciate my talent yet. I needed some way to pay the rent. Laurant and Vincent pay well for information.
So you arranged to have the people you worked for robbed?
They're not nice people.
Casandra. Old girlfriend?
Something like that.
Did she break your heart?
Something like that.
It looks old. Did you get it a long time ago?
You ask a lot of questions.
That's how you get to know someone. Did it hurt when you got it?
I don't remember. I was drunk.
You got it in a bar?
No. I got it in prison. I went in for three years. When I came out she was married to my best friend. Happy?
Sorry. I didn't mean to pry.
It's okay. It was a long time ago.
I've been thinking about getting tattoo. You know, a flower or something. On my ass.
Who's gonna see it there?
The lucky ones.
Can't sleep?
No.
I'm sorry things went so wrong today.
It's not your fault.
What are you doing?
I thought I'd listen to some of the tapes. See what's so important that a mob guy has to lock it away in his safe.
Sounds boring.
It's three in the morning. Not much else to do.
I really thought we had something special going. I can't tell you what a disappointment you've turned out to be.
After last night I could say the same for you.
Who are you waiting for?
Stick around and find out.
Why?
Vincent Bastaldi is in jail.
Algeria.
And you don't speak French?
Well, you know, not all Algerians speak French. It's a matter of what school you went too. Me I never really 
 Zero isn't interested in your life story. Who gets killed?
You put a loaded gun in your bag and brought it through customs? How stupid is that?
Zero did not put it in his bag. He put it in yours.
I can't even hear myself think.
How are we supposed to sleep with this noise?
They send us to Zammito's house. The FBI is right across the street watching the whole thing, but they don't move. A crime is going down and they don't move. Why? Because they were waiting for us to come out so they could arrest us.
What does arresting us get them?
You wanna tell him?
It has to be at Sophie's. She didn't have time to go anywhere else before she came here.
We don't know that for sure.
And how do we do that?
I don't know.
They killed our friend. It's personal now. Besides, if we do that, then Julien died for nothing. The tapes are the key.
He's right. The tapes give us leverage with Bastaldi.
He speaks about himself in the third person?
Feel free to correct him if you want.
I'm glad you didn't get something flashy.
Watch this.
I think we went the wrong way.
Oh, you think?
Holy shit.
What?
How do we know what room she's in?
Wait here.
The money isn't here.
Where is it, Sophie?
I said knock it off! Now as far as I'm concerned you two girls can bitch slap yourselves silly when this is over, but right now we've got to figure out what's going on.
It's simple. Bastaldi's moving up. He's closing down his operation and this is his way of saying thanks to all of us.
You're not helping.
Julien, what you're doing right now is a very normal psychological reaction to stress. You're projecting your anger onto us.
I say we make him pay first. After that you can do whatever you want to him.
He's right. Do you have any idea what Van Gogh's "Vase with twelve Sunflowers" is worth?
The new Beaujolais' come out in France next week. You like wine?
I'm more of a whiskey drinker myself.
J&amp;B?
Glenmorangie.
Glenmorangie is very good.
I am Raymond. Thank you for allowing us to stay here.
No problem, man. Hey, you wanna hit?
No thank you.
Oh, Pepe Le Pew. He is very funny and quite well known in France.
Yeah, I dig him.
Although a cartoon I feel he shares a universal theme: We are all searching for love. No?
How are we going to do that?
I know where she went.
I would like to thank you for your hospitality. If you are ever in Paris here is my number.
Cool.
Mr. Zammito?
Uh huh.
I represent a person who wishes to remain anonymous, but is aware of your current financial problems with your brother.
I don't know what you're talking about.
I understand. The person who sent me wishes to help you.
How?
You see that car?
Yeah.
It's yours. A gift. A gift you could give to your brother... or anyone you owe money to as partial payment.
No shit?
The papers for the car will arrive tomorrow.
Anybody know about that car outside?
Yeah. It's mine.
No. It's mine.
The hell it is.
I'm telling you that's my car! And someone's gonna pay for it!
And I'm tellin' you it ain't! Now, turn your tacoeating ass around and get the hell out of here.
Fuck you, greaseball!
Fuck me? Fuck you!
How's my brother?
He's over at St. James. They had to put two pins in his arm.
I said a clean break.
Who is closer to the wall, Joey or me?
Get in the car.
Just tell me who's closer to the wall?
What happened?
They sort of got away.
I see. Well, get back out on the street and find them before I "sort of" kill you.
Going somewhere?
Oh, Marcel! I thought you were somebody else. If I knew it was you I would have never run.
Today's your lucky day, Sami.
Yeah, I can see that.
Normally I'd be breaking your fingers right now, but I'm going to give you a chance to make enough to pay me back and have some extra for yourself. We have a group going to Chicago to do a job. You're going with them.
Me?
You lived there. You know the city.
I've still got a few legal problems back in the States.
 I want to be Elvis.
It's my idea.
C'mon, I look more like Elvis than you do.
Okay. You can be Elvis.
We have a problem. Problem isn't the right word. Dilemma. No that really doesn't describe  Do you know who that is?
Mr. Taylor?
No, that's not Mr. Taylor.
Why would they want us to rob the Mafia?
SAMI +++$+++
"Vase with twelve Sunflowers."
Whatever! He never told me about the Van Gogh or any of the other paintings.
You guys used to work together?
Yeah and he can't stand it that I tried to do something to better myself.
It's good.
God, I want to go home.
Hey, you know you can't this in France.
This is great. After everything we've been through we've got eight hundred euros and an autographed baseball.
The baseball is mine.
No! You can't have the baseball! You're not entitled to the fuckin' baseball!
Fine. All of you want to be angry? Be angry... but I'm the one who took the ball and that makes it mine.
No.
Give it to me, Sami.
No!
A Black Panther was a member of an African American militant group in the sixties, Marcel. I think you're referring to The Pink Panther.
Pink panther, black panther. Who gives a shit? And I don't remember asking you a God Damn thing, you little turd.
There's no reason to be abusive. You're projecting your anger on me as a defense mechanism.
What the hell is he talking about?
I'm talking about human beings communicating openly and honestly.
How about getting on your knees and communicating with my dick?
No. How much?
I don't know. It's gotta be millions.
How about Canada?
What are we going to do, take a taxi?
Oh, man... this is bullshit! You can't trust anyone these days.
She took everything! Didn't even leave us cab fare.
I am not comfortable with this. I'm not a good liar.
Relax. It will be fine.
I'll drive.
I'm the driver.
I've never driven a Cadillac before.
This is a car. I think this is the best American car I've ever driven.
This is the only American car you've ever driven.
I knew I should have driven.
Stop talking. I'm trying to concentrate.
When we get to the next corner jump out.
I'm not going to leave you.
We both know I'm already dead.
I'm Sami. Marcel sent me.
What is it you do, Sami?
You know, a little of this, a little of that. I've boosted cars, stole radios, run a few scams. Right now I'm into pickpocketing.
I see. A master criminal.
Hey, I was told to come here by Marcel. You guys don't want me, I'll be more than happy to leave.
They don't serve wine here.
What kind of restaurant doesn't serve wine?
This kind.
Okay. I will have a beer.
I don't know. Maybe if we did just leave 
C'mon, get real, will you. You think he's just going to forget about this? These guys are all about respect. All about honor. He's coming after us, so we might as well take the money.
No wonder Zammito didn't want us to walk out with this stuff. He's planning on killing Bonanno and taking over the family.
This wasn't the deal! The deal was to steal a necklace, not get in the middle of a Mafia war.
I knew this was a mistake! I knew it last night when you asked me to go along with this. I could hear that little voice in my head saying, "don't do it! Don't you do it!" Jesus, why don't I ever listen to myself?
Yeah, but you did do it. So let's deal with that.
This is bad. This is really fuckin' bad. Am I the only one who sees how bad this is?
Hey, it's not your picture on the TV, it's mine. So, try to be cool.
Don't tell me to be cool! We were supposed to be in and out. In and out! In the last twenty four hours we've managed to get the Mafia... the FBI... the Chicago Police Department and a group of Latin gang members after us. I haven't left out anyone, have I? I don't think so, because we've already pissed off everyone in the fuckin' city!
We've got to get out of here.
That's brilliant! Care to elaborate?
Maybe I'm missing the obvious, but why aren't we leaving town? Any place has to be safer for us than Chicago.
It doesn't matter where we go. Between Zammito and the FBI they'll find us. We have to end this here.
They don't have a wine list.
Oh, then we will have the house wine.
There's an exterior alarm system. There's also another one in the hall that leads to the bedroom with a motion detector. The control panel is in the bedroom.
I can handle the exterior alarm, but the one in the bedroom is a problem.
What about transportation?
You can use my car.
No, I didn't.
Bastaldi got the address from you, yes?
Yes.
And he gave it to us. 145 Ridgeway Road.
No. 145 Ridgeroad Way.
The map said to go left.
Yeah and if you turned it around it would say to go right.
Oh yeah.
There has to be.
I'm telling you I've pulled out everything in the safe. There aren't any jewels.
There must be half a million dollars here though.
What do we do?
I was told to take what we have and go.
Go where? The police are outside.
What'd you guys find?
Dead bodies. The ones in the Lincoln are your... associates.
And the other car?
Some French guy. At least that's what his passport said. You know Joey, I shouldn't be talking to you about this.
Are you forgetting who supplements your income?
No. It's just that the French guy had a gunshot wound on his neck. So, this is a homicide. Are you guys involved in this?
Yeah. I'll come down and make a full confession later. Right now, tell me what else you found?
A Wallet. A hotel room card. Some cash.
What hotel?
The Holiday Hotel.
What room number?
I don't know. I didn't look.
Go look.
What'd I tell you? Huh, Vinny? What'd I tell you when you came to me for money? Didn't I ask you not to do it? Did I not say that? What'd I say to him?
You said don't do it, boss.
That's right. I said don't do it. Did you listen to me? No. You wanted the money. So, I lent you twenty large. Now it's been three weeks and you ain't paid a dime. What do you think that makes me look like on the street? I don't do something to you and everyone will think they can skate.
Hey boss, it's not a science.
Send some flowers. Something nice. Roses or carnations. And one of those get well soon cards.
They were all French guys.
French guys? You mean like from France?
Yeah, French guys from France.
What'd they take?
Everything.
Everything?
Everything.
Boy, you must be pissed.
Well, you know, when five guys break into my house in the middle of the night, stick guns in my face, tie me up and steal from me... it does irritate me.
Well, I must say you're handling it very well.
You know why I'm handling it very well? Because you're going to get these guys for me.
Okay boss. Where are they?
If I knew where they were you wouldn't have to find them, would you?
You didn't say find them. You said, "get them."
Just find them!
Okay boss.
But we ain't had nothing to eat all day boss.
Oh, I'm sorry.
Can you believe that guy? What a moron.
Good song though.
Great fuckin' song.
Maybe you should call the police.
Hey, idiot  I've got stolen wheels and a stolen radio in the car.
I just thought that
 Don't think. Okay? You're not good at it.
 you stole my cousin Enrique's car.
Hector, don't interrupt me.
He told Enrique he didn't know anything about his car.
I don't give a shit about your cousin's car. We're here about my car. So, shut your mouth! You think you can do that? You think you can keep your big mouth shut?
Tell me the truth Hector... do you think we'll find my car?
Hard to say.
I'll be right back. He gets out of the car and walks over to him.
What do you want now?
Guns. Can you get them?
Man, I can get anything.
Don't bullshit me.
I ain't bullshittin'. I can get guns. I can get any kind of gun you want. But they ain't gonna help your sorry ass. You ain't been in town one day and already you got two of the toughest people in Chicago looking for you. How is that possible?
I've got a way with people.
I can see that. The man's car you stole. Raphael Ruiz. He's head of the 19th Street gang and one crazy motherfucker. And Frankie Zammito's got the word out he's looking for some French dudes. You're French ain't ya?
I'm from Belgium.
Yeah, I'd be from Belgium too if I was you. You know Zammito just put his own brother in the hospital? Broke his arm cause he was late on a debt. I mention this to illustrate the kind of people who are lookin' for you.
Why haven't you turned us in?
I ain't no rat. You got money, right?
And, uh, I'm going to have to charge you a commission... kind of like a brokerage fee.
How much?
A thousand dollars?
Fine.
Yeah?
It's me.
Hey you guys are becoming famous. I was just watching the news and
 Did you set it up?
Yeah. All set. Tomorrow morning. Ten o'clock. Room 211. Barclay Hotel on River Street. Oh, and due to your recent notoriety and the heat that comes with it, I'm going to have to increase my brokerage fee to twenty five hundred.
We had a deal.
We had a deal before you and your friends became the new poster boys for crime.
Fine. Ten o'clock.
There's ten grand in here. It's yours. I'm going to call you again. There's one more thing I need you to do.
What?
I'll tell you when it's time.
Okay, we're square now, right?
There's just one more thing I need you to do.
This is Zero.
Hi. I'm one and this is two, three, four and five.
After the outside alarm is off we go in through the bedroom window.
Good. Zero and Julien will go in through the window and disable the motion detector. The rest of us will come in through the front door.
We've got to be careful not to use our real names while we're in here.
Good idea.
I'll be Elvis and you
It's not?
That's Frankie Zammito. The Under boss of the Chicago Mafia.
How'd it go? I don't know. Daniel, how would you say it went?
I would have to say... pretty fuckin' bad. You gave us the wrong address Sophie.
What's the big deal? It's not like I was on guard duty or something.
You didn't think it was little suspicious that someone you only knew for a few hours wanted to sleep with you?
No. Chicks dig me.
They'll be waiting for us at the airport.
You steal some money from a man he gets over it in time. But these tapes. He's never going to stop looking for us.
We have to find Sophie.
It makes sense. I mean, do you really think he would come along if he knew we were being set up?
I think he'd cut his dick off if Bastaldi told him to.
All right, knock it off.
All you are is a professional asskisser.
Hadley 
Has to be.
It's not your fault, Daniel.
No?
Okay. Airports, train stations, bus station are out. We know they're connected to the car rental agencies because that's where they picked up Raymond.
Even if we get out of town and go to another airport I'm sure the FBI and Chicago P.D. has alerted customs.
Hello?
Get out of the room! You've got company coming up. I'll meet you at the Chevy.
What's he joking around for? He's been shot.
He's been shot a lot. He's used to it.
Anybody hungry?
What'd you get?
Some bread and...
What?
Can I trust you, Sami?
Hey, who warned you that they were coming up to the room?
If they had taken us by surprise they would have gotten the tapes back. That would have left us with nothing.
No, that would have left me with nothing because all of you would be dead.
You haven't answered my question.
Does it really matter what I say?
I'm leaving you with my friends. I'm trusting you to do the right thing today.
I will.
You better.
Did you have to use that much explosive?
I promised Bonanno I'd destroy the tapes.
Besides, we don't know the city and
Mr. Bastaldi isn't asking you if you want to go. He's telling you you're going! And if he's telling you you're going to be going then you are going to go!
You think it's smart to tell him we're French?
I think he's already figured that out.
That moron.
It was an honest mistake. Ridgeway... Ridgeroad... Ridgeway Road.
Everyone get some sleep. We're leaving in the morning.
The deal is whatever Mr. Bastaldi says it is.
You know, if you could get your nose out of Bastaldi's ass for two seconds you might see what's going on around you.
Did you know about Bastaldi's deal with Zammito?
No.
You're sure?
I think if he told me he was going to steal Van Gogh's "Sunflowers in a vase" I would remember it.
Fuck you! You know I'd never go along with something like this.
Do I?
This ain't about that and you know it. This is about you never forgiving me for leaving the crew.
You call being Bastaldi's lap dog better?
Better than spending my life crawling through windows in the middle of the night.
I'm not a guy who is known for his patience and right now you're testing mine.
What is that a threat? Are you fuckin' threatening me, Marcel?
We had a chance to walk out of Zammito's house.
We all agreed to it. You had no way of knowing Bastaldi was setting us up.
I just want to live long enough to get back to Paris. Just long enough to kill Bastaldi.
We still have to get out of here.
Maybe if we gave the tapes back 
Turn on the flashlight.
I'm trying. It doesn't work.
Do they come with batteries?
You didn't buy batteries?
I thought they came with batteries.
I can't believe you didn't check.
I bought everything you put on the list. Gloves. Pen knives. Flashlight. Batteries were not on the list.
Why should I have to put it on the list? It's like saying to buy a car with tires.
Sami, tomorrow you lift a wallet from someone who looks like one of us.
What for?
We need to rent a car and for that you need a credit card.
That's an excellent plan. Very comforting.
We'll think of something.
In English. Sami doesn't speak French.
Where are you from?
Hopefully no one.
No one? Then why is Zero here?
I just want you there in case there's trouble.
And if there is, then Zero can kill someone?
We'll see.
He said to go fuck yourself.
We are tired and bored with your bullshit. So, put that stupid little knife away before Zero shoves it up your ass.
We are being watched. Daniel grabs the binoculars and looks.
Cops?
Bastaldi's dead. He is fuckin' dead!
You want Zero to kill him?
I'm going to kill him myself!
What about the money?
Bring me the scissors.
And the Vodka.
Cut his pants up the leg to the groin.
And be careful when you get near the top. Zero has a very long one.
You know what makes a good get away driver? Being able to get away!
You're always pointing out my negative qualities. My analyst says positive reinforcement is a much more productive way of relating with people.
Not a good idea. Someone gets a license number and it all leads back to you. Raymond, you'll steal one.
No problem.
Yeah. We just go home.
We can't.
I agree with Marcel. I say we go to the airport and get on a plane.
No one has mentioned the part of the plan about us getting caught and going to prison.
We're leaving. Raymond get the bag.
Forget the money! We've got bigger problems than the money right now.
She probably hid it at her place. The six of us could find it in 
Why not just steal another one?
Too risky. We don't need to get pulled over because of a stolen car.
Get that, will you?
Why do I always have to answer the phone?
Because you're the closest.
I'm not any closer than you are.
Why is everything an argument with you?
I'm just setting my boundaries.
Raymond, grab the tapes. We're leaving!
Why do I have to pick up the tapes.
Jesus!
Tonight?
I know they won't be home tonight.
I don't know.
If you think because you're a women this can't go hard on you, think again.
For what?
Laurant and Vincent were in business with Zammito.
What kind of business?
Black market art. Zammito got to a few key security guards at the Metropolitan Museum. The Bastaldi's supplied the artists to make copies of famous works. They'd switch the paintings, send the originals to Paris and the Bastaldi's would sell them to private collectors.
Either you are incredibly brave, or incredibly stupid. Which one is it?
I guess we're going to find out.
You rob an associate of mine... a friend and
Not such a good friend. May I reach in my pocket?
I've got to tell you, Mr. Bonanno, This guy's an idiot. How he's lived this long is a mystery.
I don't think it will be a mystery much longer.
He's recorded every conversation he's had with you for years.
I assume you want something?
We've got a lot of people looking for us. We'd just like to go home.
You want me to help you get out of the country?
And for my help I would get what?
Half the tapes.
And the other half?
I'll destroy them when we get back to Paris.
I only have your word for that.
I just want to get my people home. I know who you are and what you could do to me if I don't honor my word.
Where are you staying?
I only ask so I can call you when the arrangements are made.
How about if I call you?
This plane will take you to Canada. From there you can fly back to Paris.
Thank you.
You have something for me?
Frankie, come in. Good to see you. You want something?
No, I'm good, Angelo.
I understand Bobby Beans came to see you today.
Yeah. Seems Maranzano wants to talk about buying the Merchant Street warehouse.
And?
And nothing. He's just feeling us out.
He's trying to get a foot hold in our territory.
He sticks his toes in the water again, we'll cut 'em off.
Business must be good if he can afford to buy up useless property.
I heard this quarter his profits are gonna be supernumerary.
They're gonna be what?
Supernumerary. It means better than expected.
Good word.
Someone else coming?
Nah, that's just Tony's way of telling me Judge Judy starts in ten minutes. You ever watch it?
Uh, no 
You should. You can learn a lot about the criminal justice system on a program like that. Very informative. Stay and watch it with me.
You know, I'm kind of tired. I'm just gonna go home if it's all the same to you.
Oh Frankie, what's this I hear about your brother?
He missed three weeks.
Your own brother? You couldn't send someone else to do it?
I did. Joey "Two Tons" and Nicky "The Rake" did the deed.
But you were there?
Angelo, we live and die by the rules we make. We are men of honor, but honor without respect is a... horseless carriage.
Why didn't you tell me about this?
You have enough to worry about, Angelo. You don't need my problems.
They knew who you were when they broke in your house?
Yes.
What is happening with the world? There was a time no civilian would touch a made man. Now every babbo in the world thinks he can get away with something. What did they take?
Some cash. Jewelry. The other stuff I can replace, but there's a cardboard box... photos of my mother. They're the only ones I have of her.
We're doing everything we can to find these people. Right Tony?
Good. I'm doing good. How you doin', Frankie?
Good. I'm good.
Mr. Maranzano sends his warmest regards.
When you return please extend my regards to Mr. Maranzano and his family.
Can I offer you something. A drink? Coffee?
No thank you.
You sure? I just got a shipment of espresso from Sicily. Special blend. Can't find anything like it in the States.
I'm good. Really.
Okay. I understand you're interested in one of our properties?
Yeah. That warehouse over on Merchant Street. The volume on our import business has risen dramatically. The proceeds this quarter will be supernumerary due to the 
 Super what?
Supernumerary. It means better than expected.
Then why not just fuckin' say better than expected? Everybody knows what better than expected means.
I'm taking a vocabulary course to enhance my communication skills.
Okay. How much?
I'm not here to negotiate.
Why are you here?
To tell you that we're interested in the property.
You told me that on the phone. What the hell are you doing here? Showing off your communication skills? Go back to your people and tell them when they're serious to put a number on the table.
I will relay the particulars of our conversation to Mr. Maranzano.
Yeah  you do that.
Where's your brother?
Vincent's in the States on business. That it?
Hey Daniel! Hello? Do you guys speak English?
Uh, yeah.
Good. I have a job for you in America.
Thank you Marcel, for that... extremely redundant explanation.
C'mon, Laurant, America?
The job is worth about two million euros. Pull this off and you and your crew could make some real money, Daniel. You leave tomorrow.
I thought I would accompany you to the airport to say bon voyage... and tell you that Marcel will be going with you.
What?
This is a considerable move up for you, Daniel. The temptation of having so much money might be too much for you.
You don't trust me?
I don't trust anyone. You don't get to the top of this game by trusting people... and after all, you are a thief. It's in your nature to steal. I'm just protecting my investment.
Hello?
It's Daniel.
Daniel. Listen I'm afraid there has been a big
 I've got the tapes. If you ever want to see your brother out of jail do exactly what I say. Bring one million euros to your boat at six o'clock.
A million! I don't have that kind of money.
Don't bullshit me, Laurant! I know about the Van Gogh.
I don't have it. That's why Vincent went to Chicago. They arrested him before he could bring it back.
Well, you better get the money somehow. Six o'clock and come alone. If you don't we'll destroy the tapes.
Hello?
It's Elvis...
Who?
It's me...
Marcel?
Yes. We went to the address we were given and had to tie up the owner of the house who turns out to be some Mafia guy.
You're there now?
Oui.
You're calling me on your cell phone, right?
No.
You're calling me on is phone?
Oui.
My number's going to show up on his bill!
Should I call you back?
You've already robbed the safe?
Oui.
Take what you've got and get out of there.
Uh... excuse me, but don't you need a warrant or something?
Not today. Where are your friends?
They left about a half hour ago.
Where did they go?
I dunno.
Hey man, you can't do that!
What? This?
Jesus. What kind of FBI agent are you?
I'm your worst fuckin' nightmare. Now, if you don't want me to keep on hurting you, it's important that I believe you and right now I don't. So tell me, where did they go?
I swear man, I don't know. They packed up and left a half hour ago. All I got is one of their phone numbers in Paris.
Zero. That's all I know.
You'll never get out of the city.
This is turning to shit. If word gets out of my involvement in this I'll go to prison.
Listen, we know their names. They don't know the city. You'll find them. You're the FBI.
I can't bring the Bureau into this. If I do the tapes become evidence.
They're supposed to be evidence. That's why Bastaldi set this up.
Fuck Bastaldi and his brother. These tapes are gold. Do you have any idea what Zammito would pay to get them back?
I thought you wanted Zammito?
What for? The minute I get him some other Gavone will take his place. I've been doing this for twenty years. When I retire it's not going to be to some trailer park in the suburbs.
Too many people know about my involvement in this.
Then we just have to make sure everyone who knows can't say anything.
We're talking Matisse, Renoir, Monet. We know for sure they replaced Van Gogh's "Vase with twelve sunflowers" last week with a copy. It was on loan from the London National Gallery and they're not going to be very happy when they find out about it.
So Bastaldi makes a deal with the Feds to trade up for his brother?
Yeah. He delivers the goods on Zammito. If we got what we wanted we'd let his brother go providing he tells us where the Van Gogh and the other paintings are.
Agent Hadley.
Do you know who this is?
Yeah. I figured I'd be hearing from you.
If you ever want to get those tapes, meet me in one hour at Grant Park near the statue.
What are you doing?
You think I'm going to talk to you until I know if you're wired.
Wired? I ain't wired.
Okay. Okay. I believe you.
You killed her!
No. You killed her. Manager remembers you going into her room. Your fingerprints were found all over the place.
Bullshit! She was alive when we left her with you.
You're fucked, Sami. You know it. That's why you're here.
Look, I just want out of this nightmare. I don't know these guys. A few days ago I'm in Paris picking pockets and now I'm America's most wanted.
Where are the tapes?
I can get them  but what do I get if I do?
A pass.
A pass? How you gonna give me a pass? A witness can put me at the crime scene.
Witness' can be convinced they made a mistake. Without the murder weapon the D.A. won't have enough to prosecute you.
They don't have a murder weapon?
No. I have it. The lamp? The one with your fingerprints and her blood on it? Remember?
You want the tapes for yourself. You're going to sell them.
I'm going to retire with a shitload of money. Find me a small country that doesn't have an extradition treaty with the States and live the good life.
You didn't have to kill Sophie.
Yes I did. Lose ends are messy.
What about me? Aren't I a loose end?
When this is over you can say whatever the hell you want. I'll be long gone. Besides, who's going to believe you? You're just a twobit crook.
And you're a dirty cop. At least I don't pretend to be something different than what I am.
What the fuck was all that about at the hotel last night? I thought we had a deal?
Hey, you're not exactly the most trustworthy guy in the world. I took a shot. It didn't work. Did you bring the tapes?
You want the tapes for yourself. You're going to sell them.
I'm going to retire with a shitload of money. Find me a small country that doesn't have an extradition treaty with the States and live the good life.
You didn't have to kill Sophie.
Yes I did. Lose ends are messy.
All tapped out.
I'll float you.
How's it look?
Shhh. They're coming to the cubic zirconium.
I like those sapphire earrings myself.
Simulated sapphires. I bet my daughter would love those, too.
Mrs. Hallstrom, why don't you join my family for dinner. You'll love my Grandma Rosa.
That's so sweet, Michael. But, really, I've so many things to do.
The Superintendent was just getting ready to leave.
I do apologize. A student had a crisis.
Well, I understand. I know my behavior was poor.
So, in light of how the parents feel, and the fact the students are doing so well with the substitute, I don't think I can put you back in the classroom just yet.
Look, Gail, I've been a good teacher.
I know, Letty. But the incident with Zach was frightening for the children. Now if you'd come to me, explained what was going on...
Believe me, I wish I'd understood what was going on. I've worked really hard to get better.
I'm glad you're doing well.
I've already thought about how to tell the kids where I was.
It's a very nice letter. But I have to go with what's best for the students.
What does that mean?
I need someone to work on budget projections.
Office work?
Or, of course, you could take a sabbatical the rest of the year.
So, another one bites the dust.
It's not another one. It's my sister. Aren't you happy for her?
She's only known the guy a few months.
Can I put these here for tonight?
In there's better. It's kind of romantic, don't you think?
I really think if you're going to spend your life with someone you want to know them pretty damn well.
Believe me, I know your feelings on the matter.
The receptionist said you called earlier about something.
My math program. The Superintendent said he'd fund it.
Good going. I knew you could do it.
Yeah?
Huntley told me today that if I come through on the Benton deposition, they may consider me for senior associate.
I was thinking dinner on Friday with James and Meg at the Saint Mark.
I mean tonight.
Actually, I need to review the deposition questions tonight. Maybe tomorrow?
Oh, ok. Maybe.
But I thought if you don't mind, you could listen and see how I come across?
Sure. Of course.
What are you doing? You're going to be late.
I'm calling in sick.
You don't have a fever.
I don't feel like going to work today.
Won't it be hard for them to get a substitute this late?
But what about that math project?
Paul, I just can't go. Is that OK with you or am I committing some horrible crime?
Forget I asked.
I'm sorry. I'm just...I'm so tired lately.
Maybe you ought to see a doctor.
No, it's not like that.
It's just I've got those parent conferences, and I'm supposed to set up the math program by next week. And shopping for Ruth's dress and that, that engagement dinner.
You can get out of the dinner.
No, I can't. I've already convinced both Mom and Dad to come.
Come on, Letty. It'll get done.
I don't think so.
Of course it will. Remember the big talent show you planned last year? And what about the Christmas benefit when Santa canceled at the last minute? But you still pulled it off.
Yeah.
You just need to get more organized. L
You know what I think we need? Martinis. How about martinis to celebrate?
Yes.
What are you doing?
Can you loan me a 20?
Sure. Why?
I'm going to the store.
I think you're overreacting.
It's prettier here than I thought it would be.
Yeah, I guess it's all right.
Are you all right?
That's a big question.
I hope it wasn't something I did.
Something you did?
Of course not, no. Is that why you're here?
I think we need to talk about some things.
Yes, I suppose so.
This has been really difficult, this whole thing.
No.
Especially this last year.
Especially now.
So, I've been thinking a lot...
I talked to Ruth a little bit, and I think it's about time...
I know. We can't just keep going through the motions.
Exactly. It's time to make decisions.
You don't have to say anything else. I've known for a while that this was coming.
I just wish we'd done it sooner.
I had to smuggle it in here. I guess you're not really supposed to have jewelry.
Or be up past ten or fraternize with other patients.
I hope you like it. It's a Marquis cut, 1.5 carats. They had one with emeralds around it, but this was simpler, more classic in its lines. Letty?
It's, it's really nice, Paul.
No, you've done a perfect job.
So, what do you say, Let?
Sure. We'll save the formal announcement for when you're out. I already told your mother. I hope you don't mind.
No, no.
So will you?
Of course. Yes. I will. I do.
What's so urgent? You've got me worried.
I need to tell you something, and I'm not sure how.
You can tell me anything. Do you want to postpone the wedding? Is it too much pressure?
No...
That's a load off my mind.
You what?
I don't mean to hurt you. I know this is a terrible thing. And I have really loved you.
Whoa. Whoa. Have really loved me? Letty, it's natural to be nervous. But we're going to work through our problems.
I've met someone else.
Who?
It doesn't matter who.
Have you been seeing another teacher?
No.
It's a doctor, isn't it? That's unethical. I'll have him rung up on malpractice charges so fast his head will spin.
He's a patient here.
Of all the crazy things. I understood when you dropped out of law school. And during this whole mess, I've tried to be supportive. But, really, Letty, what can you be thinking?
I love him.
You're going to throw away our life together for some shared experience with a looneytune that you misguidedly think is love?
Here's the ring.
No way. You keep the ring. You'll come to your senses.
I'm glad you agreed to see me.
I'm just glad there aren't any hard feelings.
Oh, none. None. I completely understand what was going on.
Oh.
How's work going? Are you back at school?
I start on Monday.
Getting back.
I heard about your friend.
What?
I heard your friend was back in the hospital.
Michael. Yes.
Our relationship meant a lot to me, too, Paul. But it's over. And Michael being in the hospital doesn't really change things.
I think I've heard this speech before.
I'm really sorry.
I've got a deposition that I really need to get cracking on, so if you don't mind...
Sure, I understand.
Do you mind if I call you Letitia?
Letty.
First off, Letty, can you tell me where you are?
I answered these questions last night.
I know this can be a real drag, but the attending physician on day shift is required to do his own prelim exam when a patient is admitted during the night.
No, 79. Sorry, this makes me nervous.
It's OK. It's not a passfail kind of thing.
Chair, cup and ball.
Terrific.
Let me shift gears here a minute... Do you ever hear voices that other people don't hear or see things they don't?
No.
What about patterns? Do you find yourself checking and rechecking locks? Or washing your hands over and over again?
Yes? Go right ahead.
Sometimes my food, and my clothes, and my underwear.
How do you sort itby lace and cotton?
By color.
What if it's got a pattern?
Is this really important? Because I don't think it's a problem.
A while, I guess.
That must be really difficult.
Hey there. They're showing "Groundhog Day" if you...
You took bets on my diagnosis?
It's no big deal. We all compare.
Who do you think you are?
Don't take it personally.
You have no right, no right to take the worst thing that's ever happened to me and make it into some kind of game.
Stop acting like you're someone special. You're just like the rest of us.
I'm not the one who's masquerading as a doctor. I'm not the one who's, who's...
What are you looking to read?
Anything interesting.
But you're checking it out.
I've already checked it out 17 times.
You missed out on some great broccoli florets at dinner.
I wasn't hungry.
John even managed to lob a load of mashed potatoes into Mrs. Hallstrom's milk.
Finally. I was getting tired of watching him try every night.
Was it bad newsthe visit from Peter?
Paul.
He asked me to marry him.
Very romantic setting.
It was romantic. He's very romantic.
So are you engaged, or what?
What have you done with the ring?
It's magic.
Guess which hand.
Enough with the abracadabra.
Guess.
The left one.
Really, this isn't funny.
OK, OK, I'll give it back.
For a price.
Good God.
A small price.
I won't do your portion of kitchen cleanup.
No.
And I'm not covering for you when you sneak out to call Dominos.
We're supposed to be asleep.
Exactly.
We'll get caught.
No rounds for another three hours.
Nervous? Scared? Worried you're not fit for a caper of epic proportions?
Don't be ridiculous.
Rendezvous at the closet in 30.
A daisy for the lady.
The lady knows this is a dandelion.
A rose is a rose.
Thanks. Where've you been all day?
Backtoback sessions with the shrink.
I'm not allowed to see you anymore.
Really? Me too.
I had to sneak by the guards to get here. They say you're highly unstable, have a depressive personality, and may hold back my own recovery.
Wow. I'm bad news.
What's my rap?
Schizophrenic recidivism marked by hallucinations and paranoid delusions.
Really, though. My thoughts go haywire sometimes.
What are the delusions like?
Shocking, huh?
Sure. But I took out a whole grocery store.
I wish I could have seen that.
I'm starting to think that everyone's crazy to some extent.
My Grandma Rosa says that some trees get planted in rich top soil, and they grow right up to the sun, tall and straight. Other trees, they start as seeds in the crevices between rocks so they have to twist and bend to reach the light. But even though they end up crooked, they're still trees, just like the straight ones.
Why in the world did you let me start talking in metaphors? That's no way for us to break up.
Break up? They wish.
You must have thought about it. Everyone does.
I just want to see Beast. Where would you go?
The mission up in Santa Barbara.
No way.
That's where I always go when I get out.
What else would you do?
I'd like to drink a bottle of red wine with you and then make love to you and spend the whole night together. And we'd get up in the morning and spend hours lounging around and reading the paper.
And we'd eat SpaghettiO's in bed from the can.
How can you even mention Spaghetti O's after eating Grandma Rosa's dinner tonight?
I have a terrible confession.
Tell the doctor.
I don't like lamb.
Then it's over.
Lie down.
It's a good thing my family loves you.
Your family just met me.
You're right. I guess I was projecting. What I should have said is, "It's a good thing I love you."
Do you?
I do.
Michael, I...
It's OK. You don't have to say anything.
But I do. I love you, too.
John and Nurse Gates are waiting for you.
Oh, right. I'm ready. How do I look?
Great. I came to tell you to break a leg, and to give you this for good luck.
Well?
Home free.
Tell me all.
I was brilliant, or at least boringly sane.
So there were no problems?
Not a one.
And did you go to the mission?
Just checking.
I saw Paul leaving. Did you do the dirty deed?
Yeah.
So, it's over?
All over. Did you see your new apartment?
Furnished?
No, I need some serious household advice.
First off, you'll need to go to Target. And, let's see, what should you buy?
I better make a list.
List schmist. You'll remember.
Aren't you supposed to throw a bouquet or something?
Aren't you ever quiet?
Where to?
I've heard the mission in Santa Barbara is the place to go.
This is it  3B. Check it out.
Open up. I want to see.
Wow.
You like it?
I love the pillows.
Throw pillows, Letty. The sales lady said they're the latest thing.
Very trendy. Let's see the rest.
It's TV heaven.
I was tired of watching what everyone else wants to watch. Now we can watch two shows at once.
Let's try out the bed.
You've got to see the kitchen first.
Do you like it?
I love your apartment.
Really?
What do you say we go out to dinner to celebrate?
Out? Are you kidding? I've got all the fixings here.
How can you not like the Top 10 List?
I like it. But Headlines are better.
You're so wrong.
Hey.
It's sex time.
Did I get spaghetti sauce on my face?
No.
Michael.
Shhhh.
Not yet.
I'll be forced to tickle you.
I'm supposed to meet the principal in half an hour.
I'll see you tonight.
Good luck.
You, too. Kick ass today.
Sounds good. Oh, and Letty?
Yeah?
You've got one hell of a great body.
Gosh, Letty, this is a great place.
Thanks.
This must be Beast.
That's Mr. Beast to you.
I bombed. It's either work in the office or nothing.
Sounds grim.
Yeah. How was the job search?
Who ever said sanity was fun?
It doesn't matter. It'll work out.
Promise?
Promise. As long as we have steak.
Steak?
The store was busy.
You got wine. That's great.
Would you mind if we just called it an early night?
You go ahead and relax. I'll cook.
I think I should go home.
Are you OK?
Big restaurant interview tomorrow.
Four interviews. Four nogos.
The restaurant, too?
I couldn't even face that one.
That's OK. We can call and reschedule in the morning.
You don't have to take care of me, you know.
Just promise you'll love me even if I end up in a job where I have to wear a blue polyester cap.
I think you know I'd love you even more in a blue polyester cap.
You're going to miss the Top Ten.
Coming.
Hey, Letty. Mrs. Mayer.
I got worried. Are you OK?
How may I help you?
Congratulations.
Aunt Lily is the one who married your father's cousin?
No, that's Aunt Connie. Lily is the one who looks like a hooker.
Oh. And, Harry, he's the one who likes magic?
You don't have to know all this by Saturday. It took me years.
Aunt Lily?
Bingo.
Something like that.
When he could get time off from the restaurant business.
How about a dance?
Bye, Uncle Cort. What's with the lie?
It wasn't exactly a lie.
What is it? Are you OK?
Always the drugs.
What?
I saw you talking to my Mom.
We both talked to her, Michael. And your dad.
What do you mean not taking your meds?
Why'd you tell?
I didn't talk to her about medications, Michael. Don't be silly.
Silly? Silly am I?
Michael, take it easy.
Silly, silly, silly.
I think I should call someone.
Don't upset my Mom. Don't you upset my Mom.
Michael, calm down. Please. It's OK.
I guess we need to talk.
I guess so.
It's hard to know where to start.
I sure know what that feels like.
And all the plans we have.
Yeah, the plans.
I've been thinking I could try to visit you at night after work, and then there'd be more time on weekends to see...
Letty, please.
Like I've told you before I don't want you taking care of me.
Someone has to take care of you right now, Michael. You tore up the apartment. You stopped taking your medications.
But that wasn't me. I didn't mean to do that.
Well then why'd it happen?
I don't know. I don't fucking know.
I'm sorry. I didn't come here to blame you.
I didn't mean for any of this to happen.
Oh, God, Michael, I know. Why does everything have to be so hard?
What are we going to do?
What do you want to do?
I know I don't want to lose you. I don't think I could stand it.
I love you so much.
I love you too, Letty. I love you, too.
Maybe we could just run away to Tahiti and live on the beach.
That's the best idea I've heard in a long time.
Don't you have a magic trick or something to make this easier?
How about something better? Like a kiss.
Would that really be such a good idea for either of us?
Just promise me you'll be OK, OK?
I will. And you make sure you take care of yourself.
I guess I should go now.
You should go.
I'm really not that hungry.
Just eat whatever you want. This will give you a chance to meet some people.
Letty, you should be in bed.
There's a spider in my room.
Yeah?
It's got a green dot on its back. I can't go to sleep with it watching me.
Sounds awful. I guess we better check it out.
It had this red spot on its back.
Green spot.
Mottled really. Green and red.
I don't know why you feel you have to lie, Letty.
Lie?
If you feel lonely, or need to talk, all you have to do is say so.
To talk? Well, OK, that might be good.
I understand you just got engaged. Maybe that's where we should start.
I don't mean to go on and on like this.
It's OK. It's good to let it out.
You can only do what feels best to you now.
I guess so. I think that's right.
You've been so great. I just feel a lot clearer about things.
I'm glad.
How wonderful, darling. What does that mean for you?
I'll be running it three days a week, and...
Will you get time off to do that?
Not now, but maybe later, if they like the program.
Are you sure, Dear?
Come on.
My goodness. A wedding. My goodness.
Wow. Congratulations.
Tell us every detail.
You've only known Jake a few months.
Has Paul heard about his promotion?
No, not yet. But you know Paul. He's sure to get it.
Oh no.
Paul could pop the question at any time.
Mom, please.
Especially with a promotion in the offing.
I gather he's late as usual.
Can I get you a glass of champagne?
I'm here, Sweetheart. I'm here. It's going to be OK.
I'm sorry. I'm so sorry.
Oh, Letty, what happened?
Mom, I was there, and I just, I was so... They didn't have the olives, and I, I got so upset. I don't know how it happened.
I've talked to Doctor Emlee, and he says...
I'm so glad to see you. You can't believe the people in here. They've got patients posing as doctors...
Everyone says it's the best facility in the area for this sort of thing.
I just want to go home. Can we go home now?
Maybe I should talk about this with Ruth, or Paul.
We all agree with the doctor, Dear. He thinks it's safer for you to stay here for a while.
Yes.
But what about Beast? Who'll...?
Ruth's already taken him home.
And my class. It'll be hard to find a good substitute. And what about my math program?
Paul said he'd call the school. And your father thinks he's convinced the guard not to press charges as long as you get help.
I'll see you soon.
Tomorrow?
As soon as Dr. Emlee says.
It's so good to see you, Sweetheart.
You too, Mom.
You're looking good. A little thin, but good.
Which flowers did you order?
We haven't. I wanted to talk that over with you, too.
Oh, OK, well, better to choose the table cloths first anyway.
I was thinking either the peach moire or cream damask.
We aren't allowed to wear jewelry in here, Mom.
Just think, pretty soon, we'll be doing all these wedding preparations for you. Of course, if that's what you still want. Ruthie told me some silly story about a crush on some boy here.
I haven't had a crush since I was
When did you start smoking?
I hear this Michael fellow is schizophrenic.
Mom, please.
Don't forget that Paul's a promising young attorney who loves you very much...
Mom, look, if I want to dump Paul, I'll dump him. If I want to screw Michael or live with him or marry him, then I'll do that.
I'm only looking out for you.
And if I want to smoke, I'll fucking smoke.
Must you walk so quickly?
It's good exercise, Mom.
I'm so thankful you'll be leaving next week. If you want me to pick you up, I will.
I've already made arrangements.
Mom, we agreed. You can visit, but you're not allowed to mention Michael.
Not even if it's something positive?
Honestly, Letty.
A deal's a deal.
Michael just got a job. Couldn't you congratulate him?
I will, Dear. I promise. Why McDonald's?
He's been looking everywhere for weeks, Mom. It's not that easy after you've been locked away.
I'm going to take that as an honest effort at being open minded.
Don't be fresh.
Just remember that I love him.
What's up with you?
Me? Nothing. Tell me more about the job.
Just go ahead and tell us.
There's nothing to tell.
No, really. Tell me about the promotion.
Well, my theory is that people can really enjoy math, but they lose interest...
She says she won't even come if Dad brings Monica.
Mom won't miss your wedding. She'll come around. I promise she will.
How?
I'll talk to her, and to Dad, too. A few wiselychosen guilt tactics and they'll be ours.
Maybe if we had them both to dinner or something.
Maybe.
You always throw the best dinner parties, Letty.
Oh, wait a minute, now I see where you're going.
Please, Letty.
Mom and Dad? At dinner together? Are you crazy?
Maybe, though. Maybe it would work. I could throw you an engagement party maybe.
Really?
You know what, Ruthie? I better get back to my class, OK?
And the party?
Yeah, it'll be fun.
Where's the old bag I sometimes call Mommy?
She said she'd be here at 10.
What do you think of this one?
I'd have to see it on.
Things have been kind of stressful lately.
But everything's OK?
Yeah, everything's under control.
What about the engagement party?
Everything's ready for tomorrow nightexcept the artillery.
Thanks so much for planning it, Letty. Jake's really looking forward to it.
What about this one?
You look beautiful.
Really?
Truly.
Hi, Mom.
Look, Mom, I think I've found the dress.
Go on, Letty. I want to see it on you.
Do you think I should?
How can I help?
Paul, can you hand me the olives? Ruth, I need you to, what was it?
What about the souffle? Has that gone in?
Fuck me.
What's the matter?
What's all the dreck?
Sage, rosemary... Les Herbes.
It'll be fine.
No, no. They've got to be Puglia olives, packed in a light brine with a flavor that doesn't overpower the palate.
Letty, dinner's almost ready. The souffle...
I'll be back before you can say souffle.
I can't believe you finally gave me the shirt.
Loaned you. And it's only 'til you get out of here.
That settles it. I'm never leaving.
I can hardly wait 'til you're free. Planning the wedding without you has been a disaster.
You're slowing.
Mom and I fought for 20 minutes over whether we should go with ecru invitations or brilliant white.
What do you think?
Ecru.
And then the gold scroll or the black Romanesque print?
Do we have to talk wedding details?
Oh, no, of course not.
What's his name, Letty?
I didn't say...
I don't think people even noticed. I thought the ceremony was perfect.
That's thanks to all your help.
You did the right thing.
I ruined your wedding night.
Oh, Ruthie, what am I going to do?
You don't have to make any decisions tonight.
But what am I going to do?
Do you want to go see him? I'll take you if you want to go.
I can't. I can't see him there.
I was so sure. I really thought it would work. We have plans, Ruth.
I know. I know.
Hello, Letitia. I'm Dr. Emlee, and I have some questions to ask you...
I did this already.
It's hospital policy...
I'm the only doctor making rounds this morning.
Well, I don't have hallucinations. Honest.
This doctor, was he tall, with dark hair?
Yeah, and a dimple.
I'm afraid Lhe's not a doctor.
Psychologist, therapist, whatever.
Patient.
What?
What kind of place is this?
I apologize for the inconvenience, but I must ask you some...
I want to see my mother immediately.
We discourage family visits for the first 48 hours after an emotional trauma like the kind you've experienced.
I don't think you understand. I won't wait.
Do we have to talk about this?
I think in the spirit of group therapy, it's beneficial for each of us to open ourselves up to the others.
The medicine's still bothering me. It feels like I have cotton wrapped around my brain.
We'll see about adjusting the dosage if that doesn't clear in the next How are other things going?
The question, Letty, is how are you feeling?
I miss Beast a lot, too.
I couldn't really say anything because of that fraternizing rule.
Well, Letty, this does present a liability issue for the hospital.
I'm a grown woman, Dr. Emlee. I can take care of myself.
What about Michael? Do you know the extent of his...
I know Michael's a schizophrenic, and Mrs. Hallstrom's manic depressive, and John Lockyer has episodes of psychosis, and I heard a rumor that you suffer from delusions of grandeur.
Go ahead and put the guard back up, Letty. But you need to know what you're dealing with.
I don't need a lecture. I care about Michael.
Then that's even more reason to listen. Look, schizophrenics tend to withdraw from reality. They experience emotional disturbances that result in personality changes.
Look, I know he's almost through with treatment here. And, he's on medication.
Drugs can help suppress symptoms. But lots of patients stop taking them when they're on their own because the side effects are so harsh. And, Michael's condition is often worsened by periods of stress. He's been in and out of...
I don't want to hear anymore.
First you tell me to do what I want to, then you tell me to stop.
All I want you to do is think about what's best for you. Really think about it.
But what I really can't believe is that I'm starting to actually miss work.
Have you been in contact with the principal about your job?
I thought about calling, but I want to wait until I know when I'll be out.
Then, you should call.
What?
I think it's about that time, Letty. The charges against you have been dropped, the drugs have evened out and you seem to be dealing with your life quite well.
Are you saying I'm through with therapy?
So, we'll meet every Tuesday and Friday. And if you have any kind of emergency, you can page me.
OK, good. That's good. Thanks an awful lot for everything, and for coming down here to see me off.
It was just a little goingaway gesture.
I have a goingaway gesture for you, too.
Oh?
Crash victim?
Yes.
Why are the police taking this all so seriously?
It's not the police. It's the Department of Transport. Internal politics. It's a joke. They have no idea who we really are
Do you live here? With Seagrave?
I live in my car. This is my workshop.
What exactly is your project, Vaughan? ~ book of crashes? A medical study? A sensational documentary? Global traffic?
It's something we're all intimately involved in: The reshaping of the human body by modern technology.
I've always wanted to drive a crashed car.
You could get your wish at any moment.
No, I mean a crash with a history. Camus' Facel Vega, or Nathaniel Nest's station wagon, Grace Kelly's Rover 3500. Fix it just enough to get it rolling. Don't clean it, don't touch anything else.
Is that why you drive this car? I take it that you see Kennedy's assassination as a special kind of carcrash?
The case could be made.
It's very... satisfying. I'm not sure I understand why.
It's the future, Ballard, and you're already part of it. For the first time, a benevolent psychopathology beckons towards us. For example, the car crash is a fertilizing rather than a destructive event  a liberation of sexual energy that mediates the sexuality of those who have died with an intensity impossible in any other form. To fully understand that, and to live that... that is my project.
What about the reshaping of the human body by modern technology? I thought that was your project.
A crude scifi concept that floats on the surface and doesn't threaten anybody. I use it to test the resilience of my potential partners in psychopathology.
He must have driven through a pool of blood. If the police stop you again, they may impound the car while they have the blood analyzed. Vaughan kneels beside him and inspects the smears of blood.
You're right, Ballard. There's an all night carwash in the airport service area.
I need to see you, Ballard. I need to talk to you about the project.
Where are you?
Are we allowed to park here?
No.
I'm sure the police would make an exception in your case.
There's still a patch of blood there on the road. Did you see it?
I saw the blood. It looks like motor oil.
You were the last one I saw just before the accident. Do you remember? We made love.
Are you still involving me in your crash?
Can you drive?
I can drive.
What is it?
A complimentary ticket for a special stuntdriving exhibition. Definitely not part of the big auto show. There's a map in the packet and a note requesting you be discrete about the location.
Really? What kind of exhibition is it?
I suspect it involves reenactments of famous car crashes. You know, Jayne Mansfield, James Dean, Albert Camus...
You're kidding.
Serious. But you'll have to take your new friend, the female crashtest dummy. She dropped it off for you.
You're not jealous, are you? You have to understand... Helen and I had this strange, intense... experience together.
What does he want from you?
Hard to say.
I'm going to leave now. Do you want a lift?
No, thanks. I'll go with Vaughan.
After this sort of thing, how do people manage to look at a car, let alone drive one? I'm trying to find Charles's car.
It's not here. Maybe the police are still holding it. Their forensic people...
They said it was here. They told me this morning.
I don't think we should have come here. I'm surprised the police don't make it more difficult.
Were you badly hurt? I think we saw each other at the hospital. I don't want the car. In fact, I was appalled to find that I have to pay a small fee to have it scrapped.
Can I give you a lift? I somehow find myself driving again.
You haven't told me where we're going.
Haven't I? To the airport, if you could.
The airport? Why? Are you leaving?
Not yet  though not soon enough for some people, I've already found. A death in the doctor's family makes the patients doubly uneasy.
I take it you're not wearing white to reassure them.
I'll wear a bloody kimono if I want to.
So  why the airport?
I work in the immigration department there.
Do you want a cigarette? I started to smoke at the hospital. It's rather stupid of me.
Look at all this traffic. I'm not sure I can deal with it.
It's much worse now. You noticed that, did you? The day I left the hospital I had the extraordinary feeling that all these cars were gathering for some special reason I didn't understand. There seemed to be ten times as much traffic.
Are we imagining it?
I've found that I enjoy burying myself in heavy traffic. I like to look at it. Yesterday I hired a taxi driver to drive me around for an hour. "Anywhere", I said.
We sat in B massive traffic jam under an offramp. I don't think we moved more than fifty yards. I'm thinking of taking up a new job with the Road Research Laboratory. They need a medical officer. The salary is larger something I've got to think about now. There's a certain moral virtue in being materialistic, I'm beginning to feel. Well, it's a new approach for me, in any case.
The Road Research Laboratory? Where they simulate car crashes?
Yes.
Isn't that rather too close...?
That's the point. Besides, I know I can give something now that I wasn't remotely aware of before. It's not a matter of duty so much as of commitment.
Who is that? The announcer. Do I know him?
That's Vaughan. He talked to you at the hospital.
Oh yes. I thought he was a medical photographer, doing some sort of accident research. He wanted every conceivable detail about our crash.
When I first met Vaughan, he was a specialist in international computerized traffic systems. I don't know what he is now.
Is this part of the act or are they really hurt?
I don't know. You can never be sure with Vaughan. This is his show.
Please finish your story.
The junior pathologist at Ashford Hospital. Then the husband of a colleague of mine, then a trainee radiologist, then the service manager at my garage.
And you had sex with all of these men in cars? Only in cars?
Yes. I didn't plan it that way.
And did you fantasize that Vaughan was photographing all these sex acts? As though they were traffic accidents?
Yes. They felt like traffic accidents.
Where were you?
In the private aircraft hangar. Anybody could have walked in.
Did you come?
No. What about your camera girl? Did she come?
We were interrupted. I had to go back to the set...
Poor darling. What can I do about Karen? How can I arrange to have her seduce me? She desperately needs a conquest.
I've been thinking about that, about you and Karen.
There, that's better.
Thank you.
Not a lot of action here.
They consider this to be the airport hospital. This ward is reserved for air crash victims. The beds are kept waiting.
If I groundloop during my flying lesson on Saturday you might wake up and find me next to you.
I'll listen for you buzzing over.
Is that a gift from Wendel? It has an aeronautical feel to it.
Yes. From Wendel. To celebrate, the license approval for our aircharter firm. I forgot to tell you.
That's going well, then.
Well, yes. You're getting out of bed tomorrow. They want you to walk.
The other man, the dead man, his wife is a doctor  Dr. Helen Remington. She's here, somewhere. As a patient, of course. Maybe you'll find her in the hallways tomorrow on your walk.
And her husband? What was he?
He was a chemical engineer with a food company.
Where's the car?
Outside in the visitors, car park.
What!? They brought the car here?
My car, not yours. Yours is a complete wreck. The police dragged it to the pound behind the station.
Have you seen it?
The sergeant asked me to identify it. He didn't believe you'd gotten out alive.
It's about time.
It is?
After being bombarded endlessly by road safety propaganda, it's almost a relief to have found myself inan actual accident.
Minute flecks were spattered across the seat and steering wheel. The instrument panel was buckled inwards, cracking the clock and the speedometer dials. The cabin was deformed, and there was dust and glass and plastic flakes everywhere inside. The carpeting was damp and stank of blood and other body and machine fluids.
You should have gone to the funeral.
I wish I had. They bury the dead so quickly  they should leave them lying around for months.
What about his wife? The woman doctor? Have you visited her yet?
No, I couldn't. I feel too close to her.
Renata tells me you're going to rent a car.
I can't sit on this balcony forever. I'm beginning to feel like a potted plant.
How can you drive? James... your legs. You can Barely walk.
Is the traffic heavier now? There seem to be three times as many cars as there were before the accident.
I've never really noticed. Is Renata going with you?
I thought she might come along. Handling a car again might be more tiring than I imagine.
I'm amazed that she'll let you drive her.
You're not envious?
Maybe I am a little. James, I've got to leave for the office. Are you going to be all right?
He must have tucked a lot of women in that huge car of his. It's like a bed on wheels. It must smell of semen...
It does.
Do you find him attractive?
He's very pale. Covered with scars.
Would you like to tuck him, though? In that car?
No. But when he's in that car...
Have you seen his penis?
I think it's badly scarred too. From a motorcycle accident.
Is he circumcised? Can you imagine what his anus is like? Describe it to me. Would you like to sodomize him? Would you like to put your penis right into his anus, thrust it up his anus? Tell me, describe it to me. Tell me what you would do. How would you kiss him in that car? Describe how you'd reach over and unzip his greasy jeans, then take out his penis. Would you kiss it or suck it right away? Which hand would you hold it in? Have you ever sucked a penis? Do you know what semen tastes like? Have you ever tasted semen? Some semen is saltier than others. Vaughan's semen must be very salty...
They're questioning Vaughan about an accident near the airport. Some pedestrian... they think he was run over intentionally.
Vaughan isn't interested in pedestrians.
You'd better drive him. He's a bit shaky. I'll follow in my car. Where is yours?
At home. I couldn't face all this traffic.
I'd better come with you, then. Are you sure you can drive?
I thought that was you, up there.
My last lesson's next week. James... my car...
I wasn't driving. I'd left the car in the parking lot at the airport. Could it have been deliberate?
One of your suitors?
One of my suitors.
The traffic... where is everyone? They've all gone away.
I'd like to go back. James...
Not yet. It's only beginning.
I think he'll be waiting for us at the airport
James.
Put in the Kevin Costner.
Why don't we save it for later? It's almost time for Letterman.
You know I don't like to watch talk shows by myself. Where're you?
See, now you've annoyed her. You know she doesn't like you to touch me. Does she, widdle wee fing! Wuhve you so much! Did you feed her?
Yes, I fed her. If she says she's hungry, she's lying to you. Again.
She doesn't lie! You sure you fed her?
She lies all the time. Why would I say I fed her if I didn't?
That's what I don't know. Why would you lie? That's the problem... I can't understand why anyone would lie.
He's not treating her right...
She left you, Nikko. She's not your responsibility. She takes very good care of herself. If she wants to romance the kid, it ain't your business. Your business is to snap out of it.
We were together six years, sir!
Don't give me six years! You never divorced Patty, did you? So what'd you expect from M.J.?
She knows I'm Catholic! She never mentioned divorce! Not once!
Then you shoulda known she wasn't buying. She was just longterm leasing' you. Ah, Nickie. Except for that rare twentysecond twitch, there ain't nothin' about sex I don't hate. But of course, I'm Irish. Plus I got <u>real</u> problems. I'm worried I might have to put you in over M.J. There's something going on here, the Commissioner is targeting her now, I can't leave a woman in that position. But the thing is, how can I move <u>you</u> in, if you go on acting like a teenage asshole?
I don't want the job. Don't do that to her. She's worked too damned hard for it.
What's going down with the sting in Chinatown? That gonna be off your plate in a week or what?
I just got here myself, Susan.
...confirm this third murder adds up to a pattern? Do we have a serial killer on the loose in the city?
I just got here. Talk to you later...
... third Bay Area woman has been strangled, but the police continue to deny that this is the work of one killer. Lt. Thomas Quinn declares that the murders will be treated as unrelated crimes, unless new evidence...
You messed with the evidence.
Detective Niccoletti?
What's this about the Boston Strangler, M.J.?
Inspector, will you confirm somebody is copying the Boston Strangler? This is the fourth, is that correct?
We're going to review all the evidence carefully before making any statement...
You messed with the scene.
Shut up.
I tagged the goddamned stocking. It ain't lost. We're sequestering that evidence. That's the trap some son of a bitch is going to fall into...
Am I in charge of this thing? Or not.
I said you were...
You didn't say serial killer and I didn't say serial killer.
Right.
This is the anniversary of the summer of love and your city fathers have declared a Festival of Love. The Mayor and Chamber of Commerce don't want TV announcing killers on the loose.
Right.
We're gonna have a bunch of clapped out old hippies blissing on the Grateful Dead! Sleeping in the park, smoking dope and sticking tulips up their ass.
Good.
There was no sperm.
The same as the firs two. Definitely a serial.
What are you looking at that for? Helen Hudson. Work the clues.
What clues? I'm going to work Helen Hudson.
Would you step outside, Sergeant?
I'm <U>telling</u> you. Don't you <u>ever</u> address me publicly in that tone. You'll work what and <u>who</u> I tell you to work.
Anybody in this department ever worked a serial killer case? She's the expert. I need help.
How about I put Nikko on it?
That's always your privilege, sir.
Sergeant?
Yessir.
You ever reflect how this big explosion in dead women coincides with the flowering of women's lib?
Yessir. I have reflected on that, sir. Which explains my gushing deference to you, sir.
Don't swear at me because we got problems. I'm just giving you the news. I went to a Catholic school; I'll tell you what they teach. On the knuckles they teach.
Who've I got to beat up except the messenger? Does this give us anything to go on?
I'm checking out anybody who lives like DeSalvo. Records of arrests for rape, especially by a man wearing green. Checking out psychiatric hospitals for his personality profile. Cross check ing names from arrests for sexual offenses, public fondling. If they've got a German wife. We can keep cops working on this kind of junk for years, and this guy's going to hit again, soon.
I know. Get out here.
So. Do we tell the media and hope for somebody to come forward with information?
Or for some new nutcase to copycat the copycat.
Oh, maaaaan?!
What? I talk like a cop, this is the way I talk. I can't believe this guy. Saks. He's a Deputy Assistant Director of the F.B.I. "Let me help you!"
We could use a little help.
With the F.B.I. there's no such thing as a little help. They bury you with help. Explain to me about this virus, no don't tell me about the virus. Thing is, you saw it, the pictures.
So what have we got?
It's not the same guy. It should be a selfsolver. No bow around the neck, left and body outdoors, completely different. The others were housewives, secretaries, he talked his way inside, killed them in their own living room or bed or bathroom. This one didn't have a husband or a boyfriend, no family, temp waitress, 3 arrests for misdemeanor dope offenses, DUI, asphyxiation probably from a plastic bag over her head. Sexually assaulted. The others weren't molested that way. We're waiting for the sperm tests...
Christ. How old are you? You sure you want to be in this line of work?
You're damn right I do.
Okay, now what about your sidekick punching my favorite detective? What the hell is going on? You got no discipline in your operation.
I'm sorry it had to come to your attention. I am dealing with it.
Where you going?
Helen Hudson...
What the hell you need her for?
Because I think I'm wrong.
M.J., I'm going to have to borrow Ruben. The aliensmuggling thing in Chinatown is going down tomorrow night and Jack's kid got hit by a car. I gotta give Ruben to Nikko.
What does this mean? Now we got the FBI, my team is expendable? I'm working my ass off, is anybody listening? Why Ruben, anyway? He and Nikko don't even get on together...
Teach both of them a lesson in cooperation and selfdiscipline.
If this is a first step in kicking me off the case, just tell me, to my face, sir, don't waste time being diplomatic.
Just, I need results. And  I am shorthanded. Who else am I gonna give him?
Give him <u>that</u>pompous son of a bitch.
I didn't want the Illigals, I wanted just the bastards dumping them in the harbor. What's keeping those bums at Immigration? Nightmare in here...
I gotta have Ruben, and a...
The prowler in Hudson's apartment turns out to have a meeting with a suspect...
You got a suspect...
How'd you get in on the deal?
I'm gonna drop charges on the breakandenter at Hudson's...
You have no authority to make a deal like that. That' s for the D.A...
Or the F.B.I.?
Saks. If he knew you did that! They're all asking me, 'what is she doing,' as it is.
Give me Ruben back...
Nikko?
You want mine, too? You take his, you take mine. I'm the one fucked it up...
So I'm maybe gonna lose three good cops? You fucked up on this occasion, but don't be so hard on yourself. There's something I want you to think about. The book says if you use your gun, use it to kill, that's what it's meant to do. You tried to pick this punk off with fancy shooting, to keep him alive. To what end? You're not willing to kill, you can't be a cop. Go get drunk. I am.
That was Bundy. He killed forty of them, identical, long hair, parted in the middle, alike as Barbie dolls. ...this is hopeless. Let's try to get time for a police spokesman to appear on college radio and TV hookups and broadcast a warning?
"Spokes<u>person</u>."
She's in no shape to give her statement tonight...
No, she can come in tomorrow... gonna want to know a lot of things...
My third grade teacher at the convent shot better than that.
Yeah, but she had divine guidance.
Answer it.
I'm sure she thinks it is. Aren't you at least interested in which one it is?
You're good enough you'll never have to kill anyone. I joined the cops to save lives, not waste them.
You know, M.J., when I watch you shoot, I realize I've got a little problem with my stance... could you just move over here and critique my legs?
Get Mercer to run the medical, dental, legal bills, laundry and dry cleaning receipts, extermin ators, mailmen, grocery and drugstore deliveries, handymen, plumbers...
It's mostly done, they got nobody in common, the three of them... No mutual friends  the Landlady says nobody was ever there, she never saw her with anybody.
Snotty neurotic bitch...
Classy madonna.
Sure. She likes <u>you</u>, Rube. She likes the way you move. She sure as hell isn't in love with me.
You came in there with this attitude...
Order Chinese for us and meet me the library? Anything but beef.
What's wrong with him?
He's just mad he let me keep the espresso machine. We heard from Doctor Hudson?
Nada. Lemme make the call.
Honest to God, Ruben!
I like women like that!
Tell it to your shrink.
You said you don't give a fuck and that's the beauty of a breakdown? This doesn't look like not giving a fuck, you know that?
Let's get out of here...
You got a tape backup, yeah, here lemme copy it on tape...
Why would he send this to Helen Hudson...
Absolutely.
My promise.
Is Niccoletti <u>assigned</u> here?
Quinn decided we should form a task force  they're all one case, now. He wants all the senior detectives on it... She wasn't killed here.
She didn't fight back, no hair or skin under her fingernails. I'm not seeing any bruises or contusions...
What about her arms?
Needle marks, fresh, here. look at this...
She's blue as hell. No marks on her neck. Asphyxiated? not the same  no ligature marks. Outdoors...
Look at her legs.
Spread out like she was sexually assaulted here.
Ruben, my God, I ought to put you on report.
You're right. I can't stand that bastard. Sorry. This is something new. Not the same guy, that's for sure.
Yeah, everything's different.
Get the pictures, and casts of footprints.
Look at him, grandstanding...
Now listen up, Ruben. You never, never, never mess with somebody <u>inside</u> the case!
Excuse me? <u>Excuse me</u>?! What do you...
You damn well better start working on that impulse control. A woman who is implicated in this case? Someone who's practically a piece of <u>evidence</u>?
It's against your rules that I try to help a witness who's scared shitless? Who's...
The woman's unstable. You could wind up with a harassment charge. <u>Anything</u>. You're like some horny little teenager.
What's Abba?
Bunch of Swedish women. You're too young.
She wants me to check the phone booth for a note.
Helen... excuse me, we...
The woman was in shock. She was totally out on ranks. I stayed because I didn't want her to wake up alone in a place where she'd just been under attack. Stop that, you son of a bitch! The place wasn't secure. I was doing my goddamn job! And, for the <u>second time</u>, I slept in her living room.
Don't try to lie, Ruben. You don't have the face for it. I need you to help interrogate the burglar in Hudson's place...
Talk to Nikko...!
I'll talk to Conrad myself. I'll be in the jail when you wind this up...
I gotta get something to eat, I haven't eaten all day.
What am I wasting my time with this shit for?
Because it's your job, that's all.
Not what I meant; why <u>me</u>?
Maybe it's something you did in this life, Nikko...
Working late. You're a damn fool.
Oh, I know.
It's none of my business anymore...
You got that right, Nikko, it's none of your business.
You're shitting ion your career. You outrank hi...
Well, you outranked <u>me</u>, Nikko.
Yeah. And you used that. Used <u>me</u>
Don't put yourself down like that. I <u>never</u> used you. I worked my way up like a marine grunt!
Yeah, you did that too. You earned what you got; don't shit on it, that's all I'm saying.
God, you're cute when you're mad.
If this is just the dump site, where did he do the job? Where did he pick her up?
Doped up kids all over town. Park was full of them last night. Very easy pickin'. Goetz's type.
Quinn will be here any minute. What are you going to say?
Christ. I didn't lock the fucking drawer! You spend twenty years thinking some perp's gonna whack you... you'll crash your car... but what happens is, you fuck yourself... You can't imagine how many times I saw you two... your head together, I wish him dead. Every time... Want to hear something weird? I feel like I'd give my life to bring him back.
You're in terrible trouble, Nikko.
Who gives a fuck? In all the years I never seen you cry. You loved him.
I heard. Good police work.
Just horseshit luck.
Don't ever forget how good you are.
I was.
I'm over here? What's your name, Officer?
Michael Johnson.
You touch anything, Mike? Pick up anything? Use the doorknob? I don't want to find your prints on anything later and you tell me you forgot to tell me.
No. I didn't.
Whatever it is, I'm gonna find out and sooner is a hell of lot better than later.
Well, there's something missing in there. There was something around her neck when I came in there, but it's gone now.
Who came in after you?
Lieutenant Quinn.
Hello. I am Meryhew Saks. The song is called "Murder By Numbers." The performers are a group called The Police. Adam here... ... from Behavioral Science is working out exactly what this perpetrator is trying to telegraph in the note. This is an extremely complex case, and we have a lot of fancy theories floating around. We're not ruling out the possib ility of three Copycat serial killers. We have Quantico working on graphology, the Washington lap is cloning DNA from the secretor. It's our feeling that the best lead we have is the two sperm samples in one of the victims. We have a team sweeping sperm banks. Now I want to say a few word to you local people. Your Commissioner asked for our assistance. The Bureau does not send us in on these cases to lord it over the local police. We couldn't catch up on what you people know if we had a year. We have nationwide resources and hard state of the art forensic science; you have the local savvy. Together we can be unbeatable. Which one is Inspector Halloran?
Over here.
We don't see too many lady homicide detectives. You have <u>my</u> respect. Have you discussed the note with Dr. Hudson?
Someone broke into her place last night. It wasn't connected to our case, but it shook her up pretty bad so I haven't...
I was just about to advise the Inspector here not to show Dr. Hudson the note.
Sir, Doctor Hudson and I see a pattern develop...
We know Helen. She's not exactly a credible collaborator. Especially late in the day...
She takes tranquilizers her doctor prescribes.
Who prescribes the brandy?
How come you're so up on Dr. Hudson?
She is a writer, writing best selling books about serial killing. Giving lectures she's wellpaid for. Her interests are not the interests of law enforcement.
Okay.
We've put a tap on Dr. Hudson's phone. I know you won't mention it.
Ma'am, please get out of your vehicle...
Merry, how... oh, Christ, of course, you had my phone tapped.
Just get out of your vehicle...
He's got Sergeant Halloran in there. He'll kill her the minute he sees or hears your people...
You've been very useful, Doctor, we appreciate all you've done, and now the professional will take over...
He wants me, he doesn't care about her. Let me...
You were the one that talked about moonbikes and called me a crank? Oh God, I <u>am</u>! Make them some coffee. Halloran, is it? Investigator Goetz? I had a crank call myself he said... I thought it might be Daryll Lee Cullum. I thought he might be out of prison.
Daryll Lee Cullum? I don't think so. If he's escaped we'd have the National Guard, cops'd be crawling through sewers. You'd have a guard on your front door.
I don't want this. What are they?
You called us, Doctor, if you don't want to look at them here, how about downtown. I'll drive you down...
Somebody is imitating his m.o. Look for a plumber or carpenter or handyman; that's how deSalvo got in the door and caught them off guard.
The Boston Strangler, when was that...?
In the sixties. He's dead  stabbed to death in prison.
That computer's wired into INTERNET.
He's hacked into her Internet address. He's a hacker.
He can get into my computer any time he likes! This is exactly the kind of thing I didn't want to have happen.
It's a game they like to play. Berkowitz  "Son of Sam"  hung around the crime scene, talking to the cops. This one's probably watching <u>you</u>, laughing at you.
Let me get a little action started here.
It's gone. The file's not here. What did you do?
I just started it copying to tape, but the tape never ran. It just did that...
He's brilliant. This one is brilliant.
I know 'Halloran.' What's the rest of it?
MaryJane. We call her M.J.
MaryJane. You think that logic and police procedure, order and science and method will hold back the horrors of a world gone mad and the sickness of the night. I did once. But you know how he'll get caught? He'll have an accident, or some cop will get lucky. You can't catch him by being intelligent and working hard. Or the worst: there are dozens of women slaughtered in the most horrible way, month after month. The news stories grow more grotesque and bizarre and in the city people lock their doors and windows, and hurry home before dark. And then, one day, there are no more. What happened? Did he just stop? Get tired and disgusted and decide not to kill any more? Did he kill himself? Did he die in an auto accident? Or a fight. Or get sick and die? It's like the murderer walked off the edge of the earth. And you never know. But you keep asking yourself  when you read about a new murder  is he back?
We're through for the night, aren't we? You go on. Get some sleep. I'll stay until we can get a man out here and maybe catch a cab home.
That would be much appreciated. Thanks.
You and MaryJane aren't lovers.
Not yet.
Are you always so bold?
No. I'm shy and I'm selective.
The problem for me is... you're in the witness category. Know what I mean?
Well. Another time, then. I'll be all right. He's not going to attack me; what I' m rally afraid of is all in my own head, Ruben.
Tell me what to do!
I'm falling! I'm going to fall!
Don't let go... I can't breathe... I'll die!
Shhh. It's okay. Just breathe. I'll fix it...
The lock...
I'll get a locksmith.
Will you stay? Please? I'm afraid to sleep... I don't want...<u>him</u>...in my head...
It's a woman shot in a car?
Yes. I have to go...
She on the passenger side?
Don't hang up!
<u>What</u>?...
Listen to me. Is there a gas station nearby?
Yes.
Is there a phone booth there?
They all have one...
Go and look for a note.
Open the door. Please.
Why don't you shoot off the lock?
He was in my apartment!
I know, baby. I know.
You know how to use this?
They taught me at the FBI. I was very good at it. It scared me... I liked it.
You take it, hang on to it, it'll make you feel safer. Stay put.
What else?
Who is this?
Inspector Halloran, Homicide. I'm in charge here.
No, ma'am. This is no joke. And neither is tying up telephone lines to police with crank calls while people in trouble are trying to get through for help.
You're calling me a crank?
Do you have any evidence to report, ma'am? Do you know any of the victims...
I think this is number three...
That's an opinion, not evidence...
Ring the gong, he goes. Poor impulse control.
Is he out?
Who?
If he's not out, why are they here?
Because of your phone calls.
What calls? I haven't made any calls.
I want to tell you it's a great honor to meet you and talk to you.
You don't admire me. No police admire me. I got one of you killed. Why don't you say right out what you're here for?
<u>You</u> called <u>us</u>, Doctor Hudson.
Yes, I did. Poor impulse control. The accounts of the firs two murders made it so clear they were the work of the same man, but you kept announcing they were unrelated. You'll never catch him that way.
Sugar and cream for Goetz; I take mine black. You're absolutely correct. The politicians don't want panic headlines spoiling the Festival of Love.
Well, let's thank God you and Inspector Goetz are on the case, then.
Would you want to work with us on this?
Oh, my God, no! I'm a clinical hysteric, with panic syndrome, and anxiety neurosis, agoraphobic, I'm afraid of everything, real and imaginary. I never leave this apartment now. Nobody ever comes here. I just wanted to get your attention. I write and I used to lecture on these crimes, but... I'm not competent.
I think you are. I really admire everything you've done; it would be an honor to work with you, and we need all the help we can get, especially yours.
Inspector Halloran, that is so much bullshit, you don't like or admire me, but the beautiful part is I don't give a fuck. That's the upside of having a breakdown.
Well, it's a hell of an apartment you got here. I'm living one step away from the projects, myself, but I get to go to work every day, wading in blood and guts. I guess the books you wrote about these sons of bitches paid off pretty good.
Will you go. Andy, make them go.
You can't go out lecturing? Tough shit. Women are dying. Where can I lay this stuff out?
Is it an ongoing case?
For months... last October.
It was a lover or a husband. Someone close. Somebody who knew her and cared about her.
How do you know that?
He felt remorse. He covered her.
The bodies have been carefully arranged... different positions, but somehow the same. The positions are brutal... yet quite... artful. It's like... a signature. He's proud of his accomplishments. There are early Picassos and late Picassos, but you always recognize the hand. He wants us to recognize <u>his</u> hand. I've seen this hand before... what are you hiding?
Nothing.
Where are the stockings he strangled them with?
How did you know they were stockings?
I sent Andy out on murder missions. For God's sake  it's the Boston Strangler, Alber deSalvo. He used their own stockings to strangle them. Tied in a bowknot.
Why imitate a dead serial killer?
If you knew why, you might know where to look for him. I don't envy you this; he's not done  he's going to do them faster and faster to keep the adrenaline rush. Now, I've done what you asked me.
Work with me.
How do you know that?
Look at the bottom of the screen. You see the icon with the arrow pointing left? Click on that... twice.
Can you make a copy we can show on our computers?
It's too big a file to copy to a disk.
I'm going to put a guard on your door.
One officer already got killed trying to protect me. Please, just take it all away. Leave me alone.
<u>He</u> won't.
We'll show that to...
Show what? It's gone. He wrote a self destruct virus into the code, so it would only play until we try to copy it. Then it erased itself. Gone... Do you remember what you saw?
I am not going to look at any more pictures. They're like a disease. They get into my head. I can't get them out.
I don't look at pictures. I look at the <u>real thing</u>. I don't feel infected.
Maybe that's why you can't catch him. I <u>know</u> what she looks like  the redheaded woman in my computer.
I just came from her... here's what you haven't seen.
She probably let him in the door without a thought. Where are their mothers?! Where are the mothers that are supposed to teach them to be wary and to tough and not afraid to fight?
Look at the sign. 'Hell'? In the Festival of Love? You make any sense in that?
It's <u>anybody</u> connected to author ity. They write, they even knock on your door. They're <u>fans</u>. It thrills them to flirt with getting caught.
Nobody knows you have anything to do with this case; nothing has been on TV or the news... Why would he want to get in <u>your</u> computer?
Because I'm his damned pinup girl! His, all of them! They know me. They're in prisons with libraries, they collect clippings, I'm their worthy opponent. You keep my name out of this.
That's amazing. A whole new book, thought up in a minute. Very good. All I know how t do is get up, take a shower, and go to work. Hope, if he does another I'll nail the son of bitch, and they'll spell my name right in the newspaper. Where is Andy going?
He's going home. He slept over because I was a little anxious...
I want a guard on you. I'm worried about leaving you alone.
We've got another one.
That's no surprise.
But it's a different m.o.
Then what do you need me for?
She was killed somewhere else and dumped outdoors in an empty lot. Where it says "no dumping." Her legs pulled apart in a kind of sexual pose. It's all different but it seems so  the same. Artificial and <u>posed</u>... Something's wrong with it.
You're saying it's the same man, but he's changed his style? That doesn't happen. These men are robotic; the murder is like a ritual. The method itself is part of the pleasure...
Who turned off the Internet computer...
I turned it off. It's like an open window he can climb right in...
He comes in the window, we maybe grab him. Where's the onswitch?
Have you got a warrant? Get the hell out o here! This is the <u>only space I have left in the</u> <u>world</u>! Why can't you leave me out of it?
Helen  the killer directly contacted you. His interest in you is <u>intense</u>. I'm worried about you. I don't want to lose you. I know this stirs up every monster under the bed, but this is the only direct contact we have with him. The only chance we have to trap him. So, you can turn Internet back on, or I do, and we put somebody here on a 24 hour shift and you can kick, scream and hyperventilate.
That little Winona Ryder manner... you're more convincing as Clint Eastwood.
Clint is putting a guard on you. But if you swear to leave the computer on, Winona will assign him to the hall outside.
Ruben.
Hello, Ruben... So that's that...
Please thank Inspector Goetz for taking care of me last night.
There were needle marks. But no drugs in her blood.
So far nothing they test for comes up positive.
Is that it?
That's exactly... I could have taken that same picture, this morning.
That's not consistent... You said they never changed their style, they're robots...
Consistency is the hobgoblin of <u>little</u> minds. Tell them to test for the chemicals found in Windex. That's a product for cleaning with...
I know Windex, for God's sake, I clean my own windows...
It's what Bianchi and Buono injected into one of their victims.
Injected Windex! Why would he switch to a new m.o.?
Ah, if you knew that, you'd be half way to nailing him. Serial killing is irrational and rigid and compulsive. This guy has a plan all thought out, flexible and complex. He's playing a game with us. Who will he imitate next? Maybe he's doing all the serial killers in history, the great innovators, the murderers' hall of fame. Just to prove he's better than all of them. They got caught; he didn't.
He'll get caught. If he has a plan that'll be what trips him up...
Who's going to catch him? You? And if you do, there'll be another one. And one after that.
You're afraid of him.
This one, yes. I was always curious about these twisted little souls, but this is the first one I've felt personally terrified of. He's something new and unheard of. I don't know what he wants.
I'm giving you Clint outside.
Halloran.
You betrayed me! Now every psychopath in the city knows I'm back in business... You lied to me!
I did not; the Mouth  that's what we call Susan Schiffer  got it on her own.
Why should I trust you?
Because I'm all you've got.
Helen, hang up, let Ruben get on with his work...
What's that music. It's Abba. I can hear it. It's Abba.
What's that siren?
One of those goddamned car alarms. What's going...
Ruben's gone to look... It's banged up but it looks like a .44. It's Son of Sam. Is it Son of Sam?
Look in the crowd. He liked to hang around and watch the cops at work...
They put Merry <u>Saks</u> on it?!
He said to send you his regards and to tell you that the Bureau holds you in the highest esteem.
What I can't believe is that in an earlier life I slept with him! Christ! Any God that loved his people would give women a rewind on their life and an erase button. Just give me a minute here. The letter is addressed to me... You don't feel fear, do you? You're young. You feel like you'll live forever. How wonderful.
I put my ass on the line, giving you that.
They weren't going to show it to me?! The arrogance! It's my <u>life</u>!
It's also the major piece of evidence, and it makes you a key part of his plan. You can't run away from it anymore. Look at the order he's doing them... He did three as the Boston Strangler just to tell us a copycat serial killer was at work. Then he did one like the Hillside Strang ler. And then one as Son of Sam. To lead us on  to where and what end? And he's doing more than that  he's imitating each killer's method as closely as he can  in details. Injecting Windex. Using .44. Playing Abba.
It's not chronological: Son of Sam was before Hillside.
'...great dark hall of fame... all our greatest killers...' His greatest <u>heroes</u>? He wants to be famous. When they're caught and people like me write about them, we give them a kind of immortality. They get thousands of letters. Ramirez kills eight women and gets a hundred marriage proposals a month. They're like film stars.
They get fan letters...
Let's speed up the game plan... call all the living serials to ask if they've had contact with a Peter Kurten. We could use some help on the phones...
They're not talking to me. Saks looks right through me. I ask him for some bodies, for the phones  he's so encouraging: "you make that <u>your</u> little job." Condescending bastard. Helen, on your lists to call is San Quentin. Daryll Lee Cullum?
You do that one, I don't want it...
What happened to you?!
Ruben's dead. So stupid, a cop thing, a crazy kid and a buncha dumb mistakes... I'm sorry... because you and he...
I just thought it was so  unprofessional. Of you both!
He felt sorry for me. It was so nice to flirt. He was a darling man.
A man? I thought he was a boy. This last Christmas was the happiest Christmas I had in the last ten years... you know why? It was the first Christmas in six years I was not in love. Son of a bitch <u>married men</u>! Who cares about marriage, the bed just gets crowded and noisy?!
You're exhausted. Let me get you a brandy.
Where's the john? Let me clean up this mess, and get back to work.
Who's the married man?
What does it matter? This guy, you checked your course records, who signed up?
The University computer is down for maintenance, but I've been going through my own notes...
Look. There's the order: you wrote it: DeSalvo, Bianchi & Buono, Berkowitz and Dahmer. It's going to be Dahmer next. Which means he'll kill a man.
Yes. Dahmer! And after that...
Bundy. That's the last one in your speech...
Maybe you should...
I'm working on it! It's what I do. Quinn...Halloran. I'll wait. Where's Andy, can we get some coffee in here?
Out. Where does he go? Nowhere. What does he do? Nothing.
I am not going to talk about it. How do you <u>know</u> it was Andy if the head was gone? Where is the head? Are you looking for it? Oh, God, why him? Because of me. I can't talk about it. I write about things like this, stuff it all in books and bury it in libraries. This is the first person close to me who's ever died. And it's because of me. This monster killed him because I loved him.
I've got to go. I've <u>got</u> to go.
How many do you need to sleep. Really sheep?
WWe had a fight. I called him... called him a name...
Christ, Helen. The first time, we're ahead of the son of a bitch! I can't leave you like this  and there's no time. Knock yourself out.
Helen. I saw him die. I saw him burning on the basement stairs, he never reached the top.
They never kill themselves. How do you know it was him. You never met him. You never even saw a photograph...
Helen  let go. You've got to let go.
He hasn't done Bundy. He's done every one of the others, hasn't he? If there are three dead Chi Omega college girls tomorrow, how will you feel? Go there. See if there could be any way for him to escape.
This has been the worst 48 hours of my life. I'm going home. I'm going to try to get drunk.
If there's a one percent possibil ity, can you live with yourself when he kills again?
Oh, shut up, and don't be so damn self righteous.
Why can't I drive home? I will. You. Look at you. <u>You</u> need a ride home. And you don't even know it.
Well, thanks.
Hi. It's your worst student, Peter Foley  how do you grade me now, Doctor?
Who was the man in the basement?
You like that action? Didn't that cop on TV look <u>solemn</u>? The guy in the basement doesn't matter, anyway, just another lonely heart.
Where are you, Peter?
<u>You</u> thought I was going to do Ted Bundy next, so you sent your partner...
What was that? What am I hearing? The sound of an epiphany, a sudden blinding insight?
It's Daryll Lee Cullum, isn't it?
Mmhmm. I can't get to you. You have to come to me.
You know I can't do that.
Oh, I think you will.
For God's sake Peter, leave her out of it. You don't want her, you want me.
I need her; she's a cop. I have to kill a cop, and then...
You've been perfect. Don't spoil the symmetry  you have to have a male cop.
I don't care  she's a cop. That's the important thing. Copness, not sexness. It won't be perfect, but it'll be good.
Yes. I do. I want it to end now. Let her go. I'll come  just let her go. She's not important.
You know where.
Where it began  McCluskey Auditorium.
Kill me, Peter, do it, now.
No. Not yet.
Do it. If that's what all this carnage is about, then do it. Have enough guts to do it.
Don't talk to me about courage. I know death, what it's like to kill. You're not a killer  you watched Daryll Lee kill that cop and you didn't make a peep, because you were paralyzed with fear. You chocked. I know something <u>else</u> about you.
We'll keep talking. Until they get here. Then...
I have no life anymore. I ruined your life, make me pay for it.
Why did you do that? Didn't you have any idea how hard it was for me, to get that far? I worshipped you. You inspired me. I thought you could understand me the way you understood the others. I knew that about you  the ones you admired were the great murderers; they fascinated you.
That's not who I admire  I admire people who are good at what they do, great artists, writers, thinkers...
I don't have the talent for any of those things. All I have a talent for is death. And I am one of a kind. What do you think of your student now? I have made you famous, I am your creation and your monument.
Oh, please. I know what's coming, now. "Let me help you..."
Do anything you want to me. I give myself to you. Only put the knife down. Isn't this what you always wanted? I know it's what we all want, to love and to loved. I could love you. You could work together in some safe place, learn to really understand you, help you, give you some peace of mind, some happiness...
Back in the driver's seat again, Doctor? That old dream  study us to see what makes us sick. So you can find a cure  they'd name it after you? Death is the only cure for people like me.
Hello, Daryll Lee.
You read my book which as you know, hit the stands a couple of weeks ago. You read it yet.
What book?
I sent it by private courier, he didn't give it to you? That son of a gun...!
I'll look for it, Daryll Lee.
Bet you never figured I'd follow in your footsteps. It's real well written. You should read it  you're in it.
I will. I'll call you, Daryll, and talk to you about it after I've read it. Right now I have a question... Peter Kurten.
Kurten! Is he bothering you? I told that son I'd send him what he wanted if he leave you alone.
Ah ha. What did he want?
Something personal. Is he bothering you?
I don't know. I'd like to know where he is.
Listen, you want my advice? Steer clear. He's writing me he's gonna finish 'my unfinished symphony.' He's gonna give me $550 for some of my cum, he says he's in a position to see that I will be immortal if he has some of my spunk. I'm offended. Right away I smell <u>freak</u>. Writin' about him and me and <u>you</u> bein' joined and he's gonna finish my <u>symphony</u>? I didn't care for his drift. I sent some liquid soap in a sandwich baggie with a message from Jesus to mend his ways. You hear I found Jesus? And what's funny is, now I don't mind bein' inside. If I was out, even Born Again, I'd probably get restless again. It's maybe better I stay here, what do you think?
I think whatever is best for you, Daryll. And maybe you're right, that's the place.
You come and visit.
Where did you send the message to Peter Kurten?
Damn! I gave that to Conrad, too! That guy! I told Conrad deliver to Kurten and keep the 500 bucks in return for getting my book to you.
How was Conrad supposed to find Kurten?
Conrad has the phone number. Conrad, where is he?
In jail.
That Klutz. They send him back here, I'll kick his ass good.
Then you get your ass outta here, I don't wanta see you again...
I brought a present for the lady, there. I'm looking for her, to give her the present...
You break into her apartment to deliver a gift? Where is it?
The door was open, swear to God, I'm just looking for her when you come charging up the stairs...
Where is it?
I'm trying to tell you. It's on the lady's pillow...
Daryll Lee Cullum, he wrote that book, he wanted the lady to have it. They won't let him send it to her, so I'm getting out, he asks me to deliver it in person, he says, put it on her pillow. It has all about how he tried to kill her.
He told you she was loaded, any thing you could steal you could keep, Conrad? You bought yourself a return ticket to Quentin, breaking and entering.
The door was already open...
We know... Send the book to evidence...
She's supposed to have it.
She don't want it.
Who are you?
Inspector Halloran. Homicide. You were supposed to contact a Peter Kurten?
I was? How you spell that?
Cut the crap. You got a sheet the length of my arm...
I never hurt nobody...
Shut up  I'm talking. You got felony breaking and entering, burglary, felonious...
I never carried a gun!
You don't listen very good. This break in  I can call it a felony  three strikes, and you got about sixteen strikes already, and you're in jail for the rest of your life, no parole. Or I could see it gets forgotten.
You get me out first.
Doesn't work that way. You had your chance, now fuck yourself...
Tell me what you want me to say. Anything.
You were going to make a delivery to Peter Kurten for Daryll Lee Cullum. I want Kurten's phone number.
I don't have it...
Wait... wait... I already called him, I threw it away.
You already made the delivery?
No, that's still in my jacket I was wearing. We were supposed to meet on the docks, that number 47 wharf, 10 o'clock Friday. He's gonna hand me 500 bucks.
What Friday?
What day is this? In jail you lose track. This week. Friday.
Yes. Without question.
Without question? He only scored 40 percent, four out of ten criteria? Couldn't another expert say he <u>flunked</u> the sexual sadist test? What curve are you marking on, Doctor?
The test criteria are only part of what we look at in evaluating subjects.
Only part. What else? What did you think of his claim that he tied this girl to the tree and set fire to her because Joan of Arc told him to do it.
He was lying.
'Lying. He was lying.' I asked you what you thought, not what he did.
I thought he was lying.
You said, first, he was lying. How do you know that, Doctor?
Because people who are suffering from aural hallucinations hear voices in both ears. Daryll Lee told me that Joan of Arc always appeared beside him on his left side and spoke softly in his left ear.
He took pains to hide his actions because he knew they were morally wrong. He was not acting on mad impulse. He was sane and acting out a pattern he carefully followed every time.
What pattern was that?
The same as the first time...
The first two murders.
What first two murders. We don't know about them here, do we?
He told me he had done two others just like it.
When was that?
When he was seventeen.
And you believed him when he told you he had done that.
Yes. I believed him.
Investigators Halloran and Goetz. I apologize for Goetz, he's a firehouse dog.
I'm okay. I really kind of enjoyed it.
Are you staying long? Shall I shut the door? Make your coffee? Make the beds?
You talked to me. Do you remember?
We'll get the paramedics...
Oh, God, uniforms, more stress. Let her sleep. It's a selflimiting: she hyperventilates till she passes out, then her breathing goes back to normal, and she wakes up singing like a lark. We know, don't we, Princess? Give her a couple of hours. I know about this.
Tell her we're sorry we bothered her.
Hey, no. Leave those here. If you really want her help. I mean if you really do, leave them. Let her see them. I'll see they're safe...
She just got to sleep. Do you have to tell her about it now?
Tell her about <u>what</u>?
Gaahhd! What a <u>cop</u>! You busted me! The new one, in the Marina. She has a police radio scanner. It's always on. She turns it off, and then she has to turn it on again. She's obsessed. She can't not listen to it, but she can't listen to it, so she makes me listen to it.
Where were you? Don't tell me. It's just under seventy, right? The sun is strong but the air is dry and fresh...
Would you please get your hands off my face, Tallulah? What happened to the newspaper?
I got it myself... I couldn't wait.
Well! Aren't we the daring one? What's morbid and ghastly enough in the news to make Doctor Helen set foot outside her door? The antenna is gone off her car again. I had no music, all the way to the market. Let me find a garage for it?
I've told you: I can't afford to garage it.
Are you kidding? You buy enough gourmet junk every week... most of which <u>rots</u>... to garage a fleet of stretch limos.
I had the dream again. And I got another call. This time he spoke. He said "You and me, you and me."
A little heavy breathing is what most of us yearn for. <u>Forget</u> it.
He whispered, but it was <u>him</u>! I know it was him!
He can't phone you unless the warden gets an okay from you. Did you give him an approval?
Andy? When a threeyearold says there's a monster under the bed, you don't say 'forget it'. You look under the bad. I'm three years old. Call the prison.
Oh God. I'm really crazy.
When was the last time you washed your hair?
Monsieur Andy, disapproves of my coiffure?
Monsieur Andy can <u>smell</u> your coiffure. And guess what else?
Cellulite. What do you say I blindfold you and take you to the gym. Aerobics with housewives...
Andy?
You parked right behind him. The one I noticed earlier. I didn't say anything, I thought he'd leave. Just take a look.
Oh my God! Help! HE'S READING A NEWSPAPER!
But earlier, he was staring up here. <u>Please</u>, Andy.
Okay. You win. 'Dirty Harry' coming up.
Oh, God. I must have looked horrible.
No, dear. You're at your best with a bag in front of your face.
I want to die.
I wouldn't. He'll be back. If you want him. The cute brutal type with handcuffs. Very sexy.
What? What'd I do?
Reminded me that I used to be attractive. That men used to want me...
You <u>slut</u>! No sexy young cop for you unless you shampoo your hair.
When are you going to call them?
About what?
I can't, Andy.
Then, why don't you just die. I'm going. They'll find your body years later, the old recluse lady, she ate cat food, ten years of the New York Times, unread, piled on top of the unread mail, the TV still on. Make up your mind. Live or die. I'll get coffee.
None of you know anything about it. Now go. And Andy, if you persist in playing doctor, leave, with them.
I'm the only friend you've got, darling, and I don't intend to stop doing what I think is good for us.
Get out! All of you!
The moon is up, my night to howl. Will you be okay?
Oh, God, I forget. Yes. Yes. You go. Poor thing, you ought to get out.
Look out for her. She's tougher than you think.
You're fired.
I know. Do come and meet your guest.
Sorry, Luv. I've got a date.
You've got a date right <u>here</u>, Andy. This has got to...
It's almost six. And guess what? Hall likes me bathed and shaved.
Stop acting like a silly little fag!
You bastard!
But </u>alive</u>!
Where have you <u>been</u>? What happened to your wallet?
Hal has it.
Excuse me, but would you mind explaining why you're watching the lady upstairs?
None of your fucking business.
I hate this...
Only kidding!
Now look what you did.
What did I do?
You threatened to drive her downtown. She has agoraphobia.
Fear of what...
Open space. She hasn't been out of this apartment in three years. I didn't used to think it was real...
It's good medicine.
A little homeopathic cure for the willies.
Koko, why don't you let one of these Newmeats take your broom for today?
Hell, no. I ain't goin' down in the ditch.
You can't switch 'round jobs, anyway. I figured he knew that.
You can't expect him to learn everything the first day. Hopefully it's taught him a very valuable lesson.
You think you've been working hard. This muther'll break your back.
This is a big day for the guards. They get to remind us who's boss.
One, two, three...
He's gonna lose a finger eating eggs like that.
Stop that.
How about you tryin' to make me?
Oh for...
He'll never make it.
What are you talking about?
He doesn't know when to give in. They'll kill him.
Give in? That's our Luke out there.
I don't see no sign of guts in you.
No. No chains either.
You ain't man enough to wear them!
But you're dog enough. Maybe they'll let you sleep outside the box near your master.
Big deal paper hanger! Hell, anyone who can write can pass fiftysixty dollar checks. Like breakin' open a piggy bank.
You've been having bad luck with masters, haven't you? Your last one left you when the cops came... and now Luke. You should complain to the S.P.C.A.
You phony creep!
Man Oh Man.
That is one mean lady. Bet her husband spends one day a week shooting milkmen.
Kick a buck.
Damn.
Back a buck.
Kick a buck.
Yeah, found one in this supermarket, keys in the ignition.
Well, how far didya get?
Fat mile'n a half. Hit this red light, highway patrol pulls up alongside.
Picture's a phoney... Cost me a week's pay.
A phoney? Whatta you mean, a phoney?
But  but 
That's all there was. Listen. Open your eyes. Stop beatin' it. And stop feedin' off me. Now get out of the way. Give me some air.
A bunch. Must be halfa dozen Newmeat.
No more than five. For a cold drink.
Bet! Babalugats, bet here!
Man! It's gonna be one hot muther today.
Bears gonna be walkin' the road today.
Man, it's so hot.
Gettin' up, Carr.
Ana paira ninas. Koko's the brains.
Cuter.
I'm in.
Ace calls. Here we go. Kingfive gets a tray for no help. Paira ninas gets a Jack. Ana man with the ace gets... slop in the face... Ninas up.
Cuter again.
Call.
I gotta believe. Out! Now they're rollin'. Kingfivefour gets an eight. Pair'a nines with a Jack gets a four. Ninas still up.
Cuter.
Man, you play like a kokonut. You got to call him at least.
I know he's got a paira kings. He don't have to stick 'em in my ear.
Oh no, man! Not on this hot muther.
All the bears gonna be walking today.
Dragline gives out the names here. You'll get yours when he figures you out.
Maybe we oughta call you NoEars. You don't listen much, do you, boy?
Not a liar. You just have a common  and likable  tendency toward exaggeration.
He's the champeen hoggut of this camp. Hell, I seen him eat ten choc'lat bars and seven cold drinks in fifteen minutes. He kin eat busted bottles and rusty nails, any damn thing. If you'd so kindly oblige as to let me cut off your yankee head, he'd even eat that.
Nobody kin eat fifty eggs.
You just said he could eat anything.
You ever eat fifty eggs?
Koko, write down their names, don't just make marks.
One rule! No throwing up. He throws up, you forfeit everything.
You ever see mah boy throw up? Shut your mouth and put up your money!
He peels the eggs himself. That's understood.
You jus' may be great at hangin' paper around the big cities, but us country boys is not entirely brainless. When it comes to the law, nothin' is understood.
Thirtynine... forty... fortyone... fortytwo...
Come on, boy, come on, darlin'. You kin do her. Just let that ol' belly sag and enjoy itself. Stay loose, buddy. Eight more, between you and everlasting glory. Little ol' eggs, pigeon eggs, that's all, fish eggs practically.
All right now: get mad at them eggs. Eat it there boy! Bite it! Gnaw on it!
Fortyfive.
What's the writing say?
Dear Boys. Playing it cool. Wish you were here. Love, Cool Hand Luke.
Oh my. Oh my... Give it back here!
That ole box collapse and fall apart before Luke calls quits.
Your Luke's got more guts than brains.
Oh Lord!
That fool. That damn fool.
Oh mah baby Luke.
Somebody say somethin'?
I didn't say nothin', Boss.
Well, whatta we got here?
A Lucas Jackson.
Oh we got our sources... Tearing the heads off... what was it... gumball machines? What kind of thing is that for a grown man?
Well, you know. Small town, not much to do in the evenings. Mostly it was settling up old scores.
Whatta you so happy about?
I just always did like truck rides.
Plumb busted out. Looks like the hard road finally got to Mister Lucas War Hero.
Back at it in the mornin'. Just need a little nap...
Course not. He ain't in the box 'cause a the joke played on him. He's there 'cause he back sassed a Free Man. They got their rules and we ain't got nothing to do with that. Woulda probably happened to him sooner or later, to a complainer like him. He's gotta learn the rules same as anybody else.
Yeah, those poor old guards need all the help they can get.
You tryin' to say somethin'?
Slow down, man. They ain't passing out medals for slinging dirt.
I thought you knew, boy... they sentenced me by the mile.
Man, this here Newmeat parking meter bandit thing what calls itself Luke don't know nuthin' 'bout nuthin'.
But damn if he don't look like a fat old Dragline.
Maybe he's been chainganging too long.
Long enough to see redhots come and redhots go.
Lucille? Where do you get that?
That'sa Lucille, you mullet head! Any girl so innocent and built like that gotta be named Lucille.
Innocent?
Shut your mouth 'bout my Lucille.
Your Lucille? Man, you better put them glasses back on and take a look at yourself.
Boy. You jus' asking to be handled!
Whatta you mean, forget it?
Stop beatin', man. You ain't doin' nobody no good.
I'm gonna kill you, you go on...
That's what you're gonna have to do.
Nuthin'! A handfull of nuthin'! You stupid mullethead. He beat you with nuthin'! Just like today when he kept coming back at me.
Nuthin' can be a pretty cool hand.
Cool Hand Luke.
Hey, buddy. Take it easy. You're making me look bad.
The man wants speed, let's give it to him. Ram it in and break it off. Go hard. Shag it.
They don't know iff'n to smile, spit or swallow.
They ain't never seen a bull gang before.
Where'd the road go?
That's it. That's the end.
Why'd you have to say fifty? Why not thirtyfive or thirtynine?
Fifty's a nice round number.
Damn, Luke. What's the matter with you? what's the matter with me?
Nothin' to worry about. We got a deadlock on that mullet.
What did I do? Stole and tole lies. I loved mah neighbor and his wife, but what did I do to deserve this lunatic to come in mah happy home and beat me outa hard earned bread.
We got it locked in the sock.
Yeah, I know. But what we gotta do first is stretch that l'il ol' belly of yours  git it all strained out, in fightin' shape, like a barrage balloon.
You ol' sack of guts. I had a belly like yours, we wouldn't have nothin' to worry about.
'Atsa sign I got me an affectionate nature.
Like an elephant.
Us elephants may be a lil slow, like in makin' love, but you give us a coupla three days to really get with it an' man  stand back!
Look at Him go. Bam! Bam!
Knock it off, Luke! You cain't talk about Him that way.
Sure do... that's why we didn't bet with the Navy.
Oh, that's mah darlin' Luke. Grins like a baby and bites like a 'gator.
Don't hit me no more, Boss! Don't hit me! I'll do anythin' you say but just don't hit me! Oh Luke. You are an original, you truly are. You really fooled them.
Foolin', Hell! I would have eaten that dirt for them. They coulda used my head for a shovel and a my face for a broom... They just never did get a piece of my mind.
And all the time you was plannin' on runnin' again.
Whoee, it's cold. Wisht I had somethin' to eat. Bread, grits, beans even. Soon's we get to my house, we're gonna have us one big meal and then I'm gonna show you some farm girls that...
We ain't goin' nowhere.
What you talkin' about, Luke? We're together, you and me, just like always. Now the thing we gotta work out is how to get Koko outa there and then the Terrible Trio be all complete again. Man, this old Free World ain't gonna know which ear to stand on.
Yeah, well, you and Koko kin handle it without me.
What you mean, Luke?
I've done enough worldshakin' for a while. You do the rest for me. Send me a postcard about it.
But, Luke...
Take it easy, Drag.
Luke. Where you goin?
On my own.
But what am I gonna do all by myself? Oh if'n I hadn't lost mah head. I only had two more years to go. But when I saw you tearin' down with that truck... But you right Luke. We oughta split up. Be safer for us both.
Is that your answer, Old Man? You're a hardcase too, ain't you?
Luke, are you alright?... They got us, boy. They're out there thicker'n flies. Bosses and dogs and sheriffs and more guns than I ever seen in my life. We don't have a chance, Luke... They caught up with me right after we split up and they was aimin' to kill you, Luke. But I got 'em to promise if you give up peaceful, they wouldn't even whip you this time.
Do we even get our same bunks back?
Why sure, Luke. I mean I didn't talk to them about that. But why not? They're reasonable, Luke. Hell, we only been gone a coupla hours.
You don't understand a thing, do you, Drag?
Luke, you got to listen to me. All you got to do is just give up nice and quiet, just play it cool.
Like I always do?
Thass right. Just play it...
You gotta mind your manners, you actin' like a hillbilly tramp.
Tramp! Beautiful!
Newmeat looks like a poker player, Drag.
Wouldn't surprise me none. Wicker Man says you got a hundred twenny and some change in the Captain's safe and you got your five dollars pocket money... That'll buy you a whole fistfull of cards. You in or out?
She looks just like Mrs. Patricia Handy, a married woman... I useta fool with. Man, I kin sniff blondes from a hunnert yards and redheads from a mile and a half.
Drag's been chainganging so long he's got a nose like a bloodhound.
Oh, man, did you see her? Did you see her?
I got eyes, don't I? How my not gonna see something like that?
I'm dyin'. I'm dyin'!
Look, she's got paint on her toenails! Oh Lord, whatever I done, don't strike me blind for 'nother couple minutes. Oh you Lucille!
Whatcha got?
Pair'a nines.
I kin see that, brick head. I mean your hole card.
Uhhuh. And he ain't got nothing showing. Raise his head off.
He's been betting his head from the gun. Gotta have kings.
So then you just call him.
I call.
But there's still daylight left.
'Bout two hours left.
Jus' take it slow, buddy.
What happened? How far did you get?
Shut up. Let him eat. Don't pay them no mind, boy.
He ain't eating beans fer lunch.
He's eatin' steak and corn with butter and green beans and...
Looka that! Two of them. Oh my...
I'm dyin'. I'm dyin'.
Lemme see it!
Get away!
Oh lookit that brunette.
Mah baby! We're diggin' and dyin' but our boy Luke is lovin' and flyin'.
Dragline, lemme look at the picture.
What for?
Come on, Drag. Lemme take a look.
It'd go to your coconut head. You'd start getting ideas. Maybe even pass right out.
A cold drink.
A cold drink? You mean one cold drink? To feast yore starvin' fishy l'il eyes on The Picture? A true vision of Paradise itself? With two of the angels right there in plain sight a friskin' round with mah boy?
A cold drink? Okay?
Well  okay. It's a deal. One cold drink, if'n you please. In advance. One chilly bottle right here in mah hot l'il hand... That goes for the rest of you mulletheads, too.
That's my baby.
He's gonna be awright.
In the Navy, we used to call guys 
Fasten your flap! All you Newmeats gonna have to shape up fast and hard on this gang. We got rules here an' in order to learn them, you gotta keep your ears open and your mouths shut.
You was to sell your job, maybe this Lucas War Hero would give you a price.
I'll give you fifty cents.
Had it done in Singapore. Bunch of us drunk as coots 
Hey, Tattoo!
 went down to see this old hag and she had needles the size of that cane.
Only two? Man, I already done eight. Nothin' to it. Just make the days and let the weeks and the years make themselves.
I did three hitches in the Navy. It ain't bad. After a while, you get used to it and the time 
That ain't nuthing compared to what we used to do in San Pedro. There was this ensign...
Ah believe I smell me a blondehaired lady.
You can't do that!
You jes' watch us!
Borrowin' or payin' back?
Borrowin'.
Mister Cool Hand here is the soft heart in our Loan Department. Next!
Here, Captain.
Maliciously destroyin' municipal property while under the influence. What was that?
Cuttin' the heads off parkin' meters, Captain.
Well, we ain't never had one of them. Where'd you think that was gonna get you?
I guess you could say I wasn't thinkin', Captain.
Says here you done real good in the war: Silver Star, Bronze Star, couple Purple Hearts. Sergeant! Little time in stockades. Come out the same way you went in: Buck Private.
That's right, Captain. Just passin' the time.
Well, you got yourself some time now. Two years. Hell, that ain't much, we got coupla men here doin' twenty spots. We got one who's got all of it. We got all kinds and you gonna fit in real good. Course in case you git rabbit in your blood and decide to take off fer home, you git a bonus a some time and couple leg chains to keep you slowed down a little  fer your own good. You'll learn the rules. It's all up to you. I can be a good guy or I can be one mean sonofabitch, it's up to you.
You gonna get used to wearing them chains aftera while, Luke. But don't you never stop listenin' to them clinkin'. That's gonna remind you of what I been sayin'.
Yeah, they sure do make a lot of cold, hard, noise, Captain.
He ain't even got the sense to run from the road like everybody else.
Blue'll git him, Boss. We'll git that bastid, Cool Hand Luke.
Captain says to wait 'til the Patrol gits here.
She's on to him. You shoulda waited fer me to git her out  loose like she is, he kin run her crazy.
It ain't my fault you don't know how to handle your dogs.
How my suppose to handle a dog someone jus' let loose?
Here's the Patrol.
She's got him! You hear that?
Comin' out here, Boss?
Yeah. Come on out, Luke.
You was eyeballin', Luke. You can't gitcha mind on them weeds if yer eyeballin'...
Boss, you don't need reasons to hit me.
Then how come it ain't done yet?
I don't know, Boss.
You don't know!
What's all this dirt in the yard?
I... I... I...
Please! Please!
Git to work!
Don't hit me! Please, for God's sake, don't hit me.
You got your mind right, Luke?
Yes, Boss. I got it right.
Supposin' you was to backslide on us, Luke? Supposin' you was to backsass or try to run again...
No, Boss! I won't. I won't. I got my mind right. I got it right, Boss. Please don't hit me no more.
Luke, you run again and we'll kill you.
I know, I know. Just don't hit me.
Go git it, Luke.
Yes sir, Boss Paul!
You cut that up fer lunch, Luke.
Yes, Boss.
Lookit her bounce.
Oh lean over here, lady. Lean this way.
Gotta have kings.
Sure he's got kings but you still gotta call him.
Go hard!
Ram it in and break it off!
Tell us about it.
You steal a car?
A salesman! Cool Hand Luke a salesman?
He's probably a gigolo.
We saw the broads.
Yeah. Did you have them both at once or 
How'd you find me?
Helen, she sent along your things with a note, and John here, he wrote to the police.
Yeah. Well. Gettin' up here, Boss.
Well, Arletta, I got to stand down here.
I allus hoped to see you well fixed and have me a crop of grandkids to kiss and fuss around with.
Like to oblige you, Arletta, but right off I don't know where to put my hands on 'em.
Sometimes I wisht people was like dogs, Luke. Comes a time, a day like, when the bitch just don't recognize her pups no more, so she don't have no hopes nor love to bring her pain. She just don't give a damn. They let you smoke?
Smokin' it up here, Boss.
Yeah, well, Arletta, you done your best. What I done with myself is my problem.
No it hain't, Luke. You ain't alone. Ever whar you go, I'm with you, and so's John.
You never thought that's a heavy load?
We allus thought you was strong enough to carry it. Was we wrong?
No. But things ain't always like they seem, Arletta. You know that. A man's gotta go his own way.
Well, I don't know, I just wash my hands of it, I guess I just got to love you and let go.
Yeah.
What are you doin' here?
We call it abuildin' time, Arletta.
I ain't askin' what you'll do after you get out, because I'm gonna be dead and it don't matter.
You never wanted to live forever anyways, did you? It wasn't such a hell of a life.
Oh, I had me some high old times. Yore old man, Luke, wasn't much for stickin' around, but damn it he made me laugh.
Yeah, would of been nice to of knowed him, the way you talk about him.
You think life is some kind of ocean voyage and you start out with buntin' and hollerin' and high hopes, but the damn ship goes down before you ever reach the other side. Luke?
Here, Mom.
What went wrong?
Nothin'. Ever'thing's cool's can be.
No.
Tried to live always just as free and aboveboard as you been, and well, they ain't that much elbow room.
You allus had good jobs, and that girl in Kentucky I taken a shine to her.
She took off with that convertible feller...
Well, why not? Idee of marryin' got you all choked up, trying to pretend you was respectable you was borin' the hell out of all of us.
Yeah.
I'm leavin' the place to John.
That's good: he earned it.
Nothin' to do with it. I ain't never give John the kind of feelin' I give you, so I'm payin' him off now. Don't feel you got to say anything. Way it is, sometimes, you just have a feelin' for a child or you don't, and with John I just didn't.
Gotta go, Arletta.
Laugh it up, kid. You'll make out.
You don't take another man's place, boy.
It wasn't his fault. Nobody said anything about seats. We 
I'm lucky I got a broom. Work up top. Real easy job. Man, it's gonna be hot down in that ditch.
We work down in the ditch?
Fifty cents? Sweet job like that worth at least a buck.
I'll make it a dollar.
Buck is a deal.
I've got this weak heart. Too much drinking, I guess. As soon as they find out about it, they'll probably send me someplace else.
Hot damn, Drag. Tomorrow's Saturday. Another week almost made.
I got two years.
Boss, I made an arrangement with that man to take his broom.
Git your shovel and git to work.
I don't think you understand. We made a deal 
Git movin', I said.
But I made this arrangement 
Cut that backsass!
Oh my God...
What is it?
Well. That would seem to decide it. Like it or not, for the moment, anyway, it looks like we're all in this together.
But 
That's it, Mike. Last time I checked, I was still running the country. Although it seems that for the moment, Dr. Arroway is running the planet.
... as have all attempts at internal analysis. We've tried sonargrams, magnetic resonance, gamma rays; it's completely impenetrable.
Recommendations?
I don't know. Maybe we built the damn thing wrong. Maybe it was all a hoax... The safest thing would probably be to do a Chernobyl; encase it in concrete.
Have your department make a full report.
You have a question, Dr. Arroway?
I question the thinking behind sending the first ambassador to another civilization in armed  basically announcing our intentions are hostile.
It's designed purely as a defensive device. Call it a reasonable precaution.
Call it xenophobic paranoia. Don't you see the absolute absurdity of this? This isn't about them, it's about us  our violence, our fear and mistrust 
Dr. Arroway, you are entitled to your opinion. But we feel quite strongly that it would by both irresponsible and naive to send a human being into a completely unknown, completely uncontrollable situation absolutely defenseless.
Y'know what? Fine. I guess if we want them to know the truth about who we are there's no quicker way to show them.
You kill me, you really do. The first truly global, apolitical event in history and you can't wait to spin it.
How would you propose we handle it, Doctor?
I guess I'd say I trust us enough to believe our response would be something to the effect of, thanks for the advice, but no thanks. But to dilute or censor the truth, for whatever reason 
Nobody is proposing we censor the truth here, Doctor. We're simply talking about putting a mechanism in place 
For managing the truth. But the truth won't be managed, sir. It stops being the truth the moment you try.
I agree with Mr. Rank that there are unavoidable religious implications here  but I don't think it justifies taking an alarmist position. Dr. Arroway is right  their chosen means of communication was a scientific one, and a scientific approach is probably appropriate, at least until the theological dimensions of the problem become more apparent.
And where exactly does that put your position...?
I'd have to say I don't know enough to have one yet. For the moment I don't believe the two approaches have to be mutually exclusive.
Champagne please.
Make that two.
... What I'm curious about are the wilderness years. You're out there all alone, no money, mocked by the skeptics. It must have taken tremendous faith.
I'd say logic more than faith. The odds were on my side.
And what would you have done if the odds had gone against you?
I guess I would've felt sorry for the universe.
Spoken like a true believer.
What about you? Doesn't all of this shake your faith at all?
How do you mean?
Well it's been a while, but I don't recall the Bible saying too much about alien civilizations.
'My father's house has many mansions.'
Very smooth. It's Palmer, right? Where I came from a palmer was a person who cheated at cards. Really though... the Bible describes a God who watches over one tiny world a few thousand years old. I look out there and see a universe of hundreds of billions of galaxies, each with hundreds of billions of stars... I mean burn me for a heretic, but your God seems awfully small.
Your 'faith' tells you that the distance a pendulum swings from the vertical can never get bigger, only smaller.
That's not faith, it's physics. The second law of thermodynamics.
And you believe this law with all your heart and soul.
And mind, yes. What are you 
So if I let the pendulum go, when it swings back you wouldn't flinch.
I flinched.
Only a tiny bit. Even the most devout believer is allowed a little doubt.
That's not doubt. That's four hundred years of science fighting a billion years of instinct. I always wondered what you religious types did with your free time.
Now you know.
... It's an old story. I grew up in South Boston, more or less on the streets. By the time I was thirteen I'd tried my first hit of heroin, by fifteen I'd stopped using but I was dealing fulltime. By the time I was nineteen I decided I didn't want to live any more, at least not in a world like that. One day I got on a bus; I got as far as Ohio before my money ran out, and after that I just kept walking. Didn't eat, didn't sleep... just walked. I ended up collapsing in a wheat field. There was a storm... I woke up... And that's about as far as words'll go.
Can you try?
I had... an experience. Of belonging. Of unconditional love. And for the first time in my life I wasn't terrified, and I wasn't alone.
And there's no chance you had this experience simply because some part of you needed to have it?
Look, I'm a reasonable person, and reasonably intelligent. But this experience went beyond both. For the first time I had to consider the possibility that intellect, as wonderful as it is, is not the only way of comprehending the universe. That it was too small and inadequate a tool to deal with what it was faced with.
You may not believe this... but there's a part of me that wants more than anything to believe in your God. To believe that we're all here for a purpose, that all this... means something. But it's because that part of me wants it so badly that I'm so stubborn about making sure it isn't just selfdelusion. Of course I want to know God if there is one... but it has to be real. Unless I have proof how can I be sure?
Do you love your parents?
I never knew my mother. My father died when I was nine.
Did you love him?
Yes. Very much.
Prove it.
So. Is this kosher fraternizing with the enemy like this?
Some of my best friends are scientists.
I was referring to the selectees mingling with the selectors.
Some of my best friends are scientists. They're saying the machine is alive.
Not exactly. It has organic qualities, but we don't really understand how they're integrated with the mechanical systems.
Maybe you're creating a monster.
I don't think so.
Why?
It's too... elegant. The degree of economy is extraordinary; it's really the next logical step... Even on Earth technology has always aspired to a condition of nature. D.N.A. outclasses any computer we can come up with; the human body is the most exquisitely designed machine imaginable.
In other words, God is one hell of an engineer.
In other words.
Relativity. Explain this to me one more time... even if you traveled near the speed of light, when you came back 
If you came back.
If you came back... you'd only be four years older  but over 50 years would have passed on Earth.
Something like that.
And everybody you care about would be dead and buried.
If you came back. If you survived at all. Which it's pretty certain you wouldn't.
You're willing to die for this.
It's what my whole life's been... aimed at; the only thing that's given it a sense of purpose.
I read your book.
Really.
Losing Faith: The Search For Meaning In the Age of Reason. Catchy.
What'd you think?
I'm more interested in the story behind the story... How a young man goes from living on the streets of South Boston to being the best selling media figure rubbing elbows with the President.
I won't deny I was ambitious. When I had my... experience... I wanted to tell my story to as many people as possible. I'm the first to admit that process included making some compromises. You didn't answer my question.
I thought it was wellwritten. Heartfelt. And a little bit naive... But that's just the enemy's perspective.
I don't consider you the enemy, Ellie. I'm not 'out to get' technology. I only ask the question: Does it have to have all the answers? I look out there and I see so much emptiness... People are so starved for meaning, and it's something they just don't seem to be getting from science.
Did you ever stop to think that maybe that isn't science's fault, but meaning's?
I don't follow.
Maybe the reason people are having trouble finding meaning isn't because science has obscured it... maybe it's just revealed it isn't there.
Do you really believe your life is meaningless?
I don't know. But as a scientist I have to consider that possibility.
And yet you're willing to die for this cause, the one thing that's given your life a sense of purpose. Don't you see the contradiction here  ?
It's getting late...
What are you so afraid of, Ellie?
Ellie 
It's late. We should go back.
... Another question I would ask would be a very simple one. How did you do it? How did you evolve as far as you have and not destroy yourselves?
An excellent question, Doctor. But what if we don't like the answer?
How do you mean?
What if their answer is, 'Oh, that's easy. A thousand years ago our world was in terrible shape, our population out of control, violent crime, no food... so we called a general council and decided to eliminate the anitsocial. The weak. The sick. The unwanted. And ever since we've been doing great.'
Ellie... the last time we spoke... I said some things...
I remember. You were indelicate, indiscreet and entirely less than tactful... Sound like anyone you know?
So. The final countdown.
The final countdown.
Oh. I brought you something.
During the crusades  pilgrims who made the journey to the holy land brought back a palm frond to show they'd actually been there. I thought it sort of made sense that Earth is now your holy land, so...
Thank you.
You're trembling.
I do seem to be... Maybe because I'm just a little bit terrified about tomorrow.
Maybe that's okay.
What...?
I'm sorry.
What is it?
Ellie, what is it?
I'm sorry  I can't 
What?
I can't do this 
What are you so afraid of?
Please, Palmer  if you care for me at all, don't push this now 
What are my other options? In fifty years? Never?
Please 
I'm in love with you, Ellie.
Don't you understand? I just have to hold it together  just until tomorrow 
And then what? Then you'll be safe?
 I don't know 
Do you really think your life is meaningless, Eleanor? Is that why you're so quick to risk it  because if your life means nothing then you have nothing to lose?
I can't hear this now 
Ellie, there is no reason you have to be alone.
And yet that's always how I seem to end up, isn't it? If you really do love me, Palmer, you'll leave. Now. Please.
Hi.
Hi.
I'm assuming you read my deposition.
It was quite a page turner.
Pretty ironic, huh? I had to go all the way to the center of the galaxy... Just to find you.
So. I'm assuming they sent you here to administer last rites?
I'm not sure it's come to that.
They don't believe me.
I do.
You're sure you want to? In the universe I saw we're not exactly the stars of the show. What happened to me makes us all seem pretty damn small.
It also makes God enormous. I think of the scope of your universe, Ellie... and it takes my breath away. As it will everyone else's.
I don't have any proof, Palmer.
Ellie, you're the proof. You tell them your story. Ultimately they'll have no choice but to believe you.
It's not enough, don't you understand? I know it happened  but by every standard of science, by every standard I've lived my life by that fact is utterly beside the point. It may be true but it doesn't matter because I can't prove it's real.
Ellie, the only one holding you to that standard is you! The people want to hear your story, they need to hear it!
But 
Have you seen what's happening out there? The terror, the despair? The world is on fire, Ellie. People need something they can believe in, something worthy, and you can give it to them!
I want to, Palmer  more than anything. But it has to be real. It has to be true.
Ellie... if you go out there like this  if you admit to even the possibility that what you experienced didn't actually happen  I'm afraid they really will crucify you. Please. For your own sake, for the sake of the world... tell them what you know to be the truth. Tell them it really happened.
... but it is a good question, and I suppose I'll always wonder about the answer: Why would they send me back without proof?
Maybe what you experienced can't be reduced to images on a videotape. Maybe they still plan to grant your request, only in their own way, in their own time... Or maybe it's just like you said: ultimately their motives may be as incomprehensible as their technology.
In other words, God works in mysterious ways...
In other words.
I don't know. If it was a god, it was searching for a greater one. It was still searching for meaning...
Does that mean you think it doesn't exist?
I'm not sure... Maybe it simply exists in the search for it. Maybe its something we have to make for ourselves.
Meaning...
Something my dad  they  said. 'After all the suffering, after all the desolation of the void  the one thing that makes the vastness tolerable is each other.' The one thing that makes it bearable is love.
... Drumlin said you're been down at Arecibo for the last year.
It's beautiful but it does get a little lonely. Sometimes I think the reason we build these things in such godforsaken places isn't to avoid excess radio traffic but because we're all such pathetic antisocial misfits... Speaking of which: How're you getting on with the old man?
He's an incredible prick but I never learned so much in my life.
That's what they all say.
Ellie. Arroway.
Peter Valerian.
Sounds like a Russian general.
Yavol.
I read your paper on ETI's. It's brilliant.
Keep it down, okay? Drumlin thinks I'm enough of a flake as it is. Look  everyone here has their little fetishes. Caven goes to topless bars, Vernon's got his carnivorous plants... mine just happens to be extraterrestrial intelligence.
What a coincidence. It happens to be my fetish too.
... I'm just so sick of feeling defensive about the things I care about! Or being lumped in with the lunatic fringe by people like Drumlin, when if they'd just put aside their preconceptions for two seconds and look at the facts...
They can't. I think it's against human nature to admit to that level of... insignificance; to not see yourself as basically the center of the universe.
It's like the preCopernicans who swore the sun revolved around the Earth, or the Victorians at the end of the last century who concluded that all major discoveries had now been made. I mean... try to imagine civilization a thousand years ahead of us  then imagine trying to explain... I dunno, a microwave oven  to someone even a hundred years ago  I mean the basic concepts didn't exist...
'Any sufficiently advanced technology...'
'... is indistinguishable from magic.'
... I keep telling myself okay, that's just the price, you have to do your time doing shitwork before you're allowed to get to the good stuff... but if I have to catalog one more quasar... God, I've missed you.
Any luck on the grant money?
Please. Any chance of that died the day David Drumlin was appointed head of the N.S.F. I have been in contact with a few other SETI people; we've been trying to find backing from private investors. I've even managed to scrounge a couple of hours of telescope time here and there...
And?
I've examined over forty stars of roughly solar spectral type but so far nothing. Still, we've barely started...
... We've been going after some of the big multinationals but without much luck; got a donation from a New York dowager... We've even been thinking about selling Tshirts.
Ellie... even if you do manage to raise the money, have you thought about what it would really mean to follow through on this? I mean a college fetish is one thing, but we're talking about your career. You won't be publishing. You won't be taken seriously... and you could spend your entire life looking and never find anything at all.
If we lived at any previous time in human history we wouldn't even have the option of failing  we'd have to wonder our whole lives, unable to do anything about it. This time, right now, is unique in our history, in any civilization's history  the moment of the acquisition of technology. The moment when contact becomes possible. We've already beaten incredible odds by being lucky enough to be alive now.
How close are you to getting this funding put together?
It's almost there. The hardest part is getting someone to sell us the telescope time.
What if I said I could get Drumlin to agree to sell you time in New Mexico?
The V.L.A.?
Thirtyone linked dishes. You could search more sky there in a day than you could in a year here.
Peter  if you can get him to do that for me he'd obviously do the same for you  we could  !
Actually 
We could be together again 
 I'm moving to Washington.
Greenbank?
I'm going on staff at the N.S.F. To work for Drumlin.
But what about your research  ?
This is a chance to be of enormous help to other people's research  to have the power to be a real advocate where David's got blind spots 
But the work 
'The work,' Jesus, Ellie, can't there just once be more to life than the work? Okay, maybe that's the only way to get the recognition, win the prizes 
Please, you're just as ambitious as I am, more 
Maybe that's the problem. I want... a family, Ellie. I want kids. A townhouse on L street instead of still living like a college kid. A real life. Maybe that makes me a sellout but I don't care anymore. It's what I want.
And you think I don't want those things? You think I don't stay up half the night wondering if I've made the right choice living half a world away from you, wondering if any of this is worth what I'm giving up for it everyday? Let's get married.
Jesus 
Right now  we'll drive down to Ramey and get the base chaplain to marry us.
Ellie 
I'm serious about this, Peter 
Ellie  I'm getting married. Her name's Laura. She came up to Owens Valley to do her postdoc about six months after you left.
You sonofabitch.
That is true. But it's also true that if I really thought we wanted the same things, I'd follow you anywhere... but the truth is I don't think you want the company. Be honest, El. There's nowhere you'd rather be than sitting out at some remote corner of the world searching for the answers to the mysteries of the universe. And call me crazy, but I just can't compete with that... I'm sorry.
Ellie.
Peter.
It's good to see you, Ellie.
You too.
Someone tell me this is really happening.
It's really happening.
That you, Valerian?
Like it or not.
Like it. Almost there.
Ellie  are you okay?
I'm  I'm fine.
Thank God. When we lost contact, I thought  we thought... but you're okay. We're still trying to determine the nature of the malfunction. Did you notice anything at all that 
Wait  hold on a minute 
It's all right, the important thing is you're safe 
Peter, what are you talking about? What malfunction? What day is this?
What day?
How long was I gone?
Peter... What is going on? Has everyone gone completely insane?
That's one way of putting it. Kitz, the President, the I.S.C. have shut down all official communications; there've also been reports of riots flaring up across the U.S. and Europe. Until we figure out what went wrong things may get rough, especially for you 
But the machine worked  that's what I've been trying to tell everyone! The tape  it's all there, if they'd just look at... ... the tape...
Very well. Assume this is true. Assume they have only the best of intentions. Suppose they decide to just step in and solve all our problems for us. You have no objection to them so flagrantly intervening in human affairs?
We've just lived through a century of incredible violence and self destruction. Do you call it 'interventionist' when you stop a toddler from walking in front of a truck?
I'd say this is slightly different.
Perhaps. But on the offchance that it is a 'doomsday device' of some kind, I plan to be very far away from your lovely Texas when it is activated.
I thought you were here because you want to go.
I do. More than anything. But I am also a realist. Soon this... what is your charming term  ? Dog and pony show will finally be over, and I will go home.
You're implying that the whole selection process is a sham?
I think it is your naivete I like best about you, Eleanor. Oh, there'll be a worldwide protest, but we all knew it from the very beginning. You Americans discovered the signal, you led the decryption effort. The machine is being built on your home soil... Of course the passenger will be an American, chosen by Americans. Anyway, it is what the whole world wants, no? This is the big show. The sort you put on better than anyone. It's good marketing. It's good casting. It's the American way.
S.R. Hadden... You compromised our security codes.
Once upon a time I was a hell of an engineer. Please, sit, Doctor. I have guests so rarely, it's important to me they feel welcome in my home. Did you know this was once Yeltsin's flying dascha? That dent is where he threw a bottle of vodka at the pilot. At least that's what the people who sold me the plane said...
You live here.
I find it convenient to keep my interests... mobile. Anyway, I've had my fill of life on the ground. After spending much of this century pursuing the evils and pleasures the world has to offer  after outliving three wives and two children... I find I've had quite enough of planet Earth.
Why am I here, Mr. Hadden?
The infamous, unfashionable bluntness. You're here so we can do business. I want to make a deal.
What kind of deal?
The powers that be have been quite busy lately, falling over each other to position themselves for the game of the century, if not the millennium. Perhaps you've noticed. Perhaps I could help deal you back in.
I didn't realize I was out.
Oh, maybe not out  but definitely looking for you coat. I understand you've had some difficulty locating the  what are you calling it? The 'primer' that will make decryption possible... I've found it.
You've... found it. What could I possibly have that you would want, Mr. Hadden?
I've had a long time to make enemies, Dr. Arroway. There are many governments, business interests, even religious leaders who would like to see me disappear. And I will grant them their wish soon enough... But before I do, I wish to make a small contribution  a final gesture of goodwill toward the people of this little planet who've given  from whom I've taken so much.
If I knew you any better I'd say that doesn't sound like you.
That's my girl... Lights.
Page after page of data  over sixtythree thousand in all, if I'm not mistaken... and at the end of each...
A pagebreak signal. A period.
Not if you think like a Vegan.
You're saying... there is no separate primer in the message  because it's on every page so the recipient can decipher it wherever he is 
 even if he doesn't receive the entire transmission. Heaven is the mustard seed.
Some kind of circuitry...?
Very good, Doctor. I've also detected structural elements, back references, a general movement from the simple to the complex  all of which would seem to indicate instructions  an enormously complicated set of instructions  for building something.
A machine. But a machine that does what?
That would seem to be the question of the hour. I want to build it, Doctor. Of course I'm already lobbying through the usual channels of influence and corruption  but as I said, my colorful past has made many of those channels... difficult to navigate. I need someone on the inside.
And in return?
In return... you get the primer  and with it the power to stay in the game. Do we have a deal?
Mr. Hadden, I'm a scientist; I don't make deals... But. If you wish to give me, in good faith, access to your information, I can assure you that I will exert all reasonable efforts to promote your cause wherever it doesn't conflict with the best interests of science... or my better judgment.
That's my girl. Done.
A sunrise and a sunset every forty five minutes.
It's so... small.
Poor, tired, spinning girl... How we feasted on her. And now that we've had our fill and given her a giant dose of the clap... we're pulling out. That's Paris, where my daughter was born. Moscow, where gangsters rule the night and I gave up smoking. So many battles, so many lives... all that sturm, and drang. As if it never happened. If it weren't for a few power grids, you wouldn't know we existed.
What's that?
Japanese squid fleet. They use lights to attract them to the surface... then turn them into sushi.
It looks like pixie dust... Kent would've given anything to see this. David, too.
Yes. A shame. Still... it'd be worse if they died for nothing.
What are you talking about? It's over.
Oh, not quite yet. At least for their sake... ... I hope it's not. Because they're running out of time.
You sound like Joseph. You think the world ends with the millennium?
I think whoever sent the message did it because they're worried about us.
The gods sent us the machine because they took pity on us.
Wouldn't you if you saw Hitler on TV? Come; I want to show you something.
Hokkaido Island.
The systems integration site.
Mmm. Look closer.
As each component was tested and shipped off to Texas a duplicate was maintained and assembled in Hokkaido  for backup purposes, of course. We've been right behind you the entire time. You see my problem: I couldn't appear to control too large a percentage; my enemies wouldn't stand for it. So I simply made sure the Japanese consortium received the systems integration contract. Of course no one had to know the corporations involved were recently acquired, whollyowned subsidiaries 
 of Hadden Industries.
Why don't you come back with me?
Can't. Doctor's orders. The low oxygen/zero gravity environment is the only thing keeping the cancer from eating me alive. It's all right  I like it here. Ever try sex in zeroG?
Small moves, Captain, small moves.
I can't move any smaller.
Try again between the static and 'Hey Jude'; that's where they're hiding.
Talk to him.
But what do I say?
Just be yourself, Captain. Find out where he is.
Could we hear to China?
On that old shortwave? Maybe on a clear night. Come on now, under the covers.
Could we hear to the moon?
Big enough radio, I don't see why not.
Could we hear God?
Mmm, that's a good one. Maybe his echo... Okay, no more stalling.
Okay, okay... there.
Pensacola.
That's a beauty, Captain. Now get some sleep.
Time to sleep now, Captain. But you can ask more questions in the morning, okay?
Okay.
I used... I used to dream you were alive... and then I'd wake up and lose you all over again.
I'm sorry I couldn't be there for you, sweetheart.
Dad... But tell me, how did... I mean how can...?
You're not real. None of this is.
That's my scientist.
So. Are you an hallucination? Or are little gear trains and circuit boards under your skin?
Am I artifact or dream? You might ask that about anything.
But you're so... I mean how could you possibly...? When I was unconscious. You... downloaded... my thoughts, my memories, even... This beach. I've never been here but I remember... it's how I always imagined... Pensacola.
We thought this might make things a little easier.
So who  what  are you?
Originally just another species like yourselves. Well, not like you at all actually, but...
Can you show me?
Small moves, Captain, small moves.
Why did you contact us?
You contacted us. We were simply listening. We've been listening for millions of years.
And those other docking ports I saw... I mean... there are others?
Many others.
And they all travel here through this wormhole subway system you built.
Oh, we didn't build it. The transit system has been in place for billions of years; we're just its... caretakers.
So who...?
We don't know. Whoever they were, they were gone long before we ever got here.
The scale... it's just... So all the civilizations you detect; they all end up coming here?
Not all. Some choose to stay at home and dream their dreams. Some never make it this far.
So we passed some kind of test?
You have your mother's hands... There are no tests, Ellie. We don't sit in judgment. Think of us more as... librarians. Curators of the Universe's rarest and most valuable creation...
... life is unspeakably rare. So whenever we do find another civilization, especially one that's... struggling... We send a message. Sometimes we can offer help. Sometimes we can't. But we always try. Life is simply too precious not to.
Can you help us?
Am I one... or many?
The librarian... or the library...?
... all those voices... you gather them all together. Millions of intelligences in one consciousness... and now we're a part of it.
You always have been. We're all descendants of the same stars, Ellie. All made of the same primordial atoms.
So. What happens now?
Now... you go home.
No! I mean... why so soon?
If we don't engineer a consistent causality it'll work itself out on its own, and that's almost always worse. Ellie, according to your physics none of this is possible. A lot of it you're simply not capable of understanding, not yet. No offense.
None taken... but ... do we get to come back? Others of my kind, I mean.
Eventually you'll get here on your own. This was just the first step; in time you'll take another.
But  other people from our planet should see what I've seen  they should witness this for themselves.
That isn't the way it works.
But you said you wanted to help  don't you see what it would mean?
No more stalling, Captain.
Please  if you... downloaded... everything about us you know the problems we face, the impact it could have  it could make the difference 
Ellie... this is the way it's been done for billions of years...
It's time to go home now.
No. Please.
Childhood is over, Ellie. It's time to grow up.
I'll come right to the point, Doctor. Your sending this message all over the world may well be a breach of National Security.
This isn't a person to person call, Mr. Kitz. I don't really think the civilization sending the message intended it just for Americans.
I'm saying you might have consulted us; the contents of this message could be extremely sensitive...
You want to classify prime numbers?
 which we'll also need the network's help to receive and decode!
You don't seem to understand that it's your interests I'm trying to protect  !
Colonel Jarrod, I'd like a twenty mile radiosilent perimeter put around this installation immediately.
And a hundred mile airspace.
And a hundred mile airspace.
Pardon me, but you can't do  !
If at some later date the message proves harmless, we can discuss sharing it with the rest of the world, but until then 
That's terrific, but there's one problem: we don't have the means to receive all the data on our own.
... I don't understand it. All I can think is that maybe because the video gear wasn't accounted for in the original plans it somehow violated the integrity of the design.
Is that your official response?
I don't have an official response, Michael. All I have are the same questions you have.
There is no direct evidence, no.
And current theory holds that to sustain the sort of wormholes you're talking about, even for a fraction of a second, would require more energy than our sun produces in a year, is that correct?
I don't have the figures in front of me, but yes, that sounds about right.
In fact, by all the laws of physics we know what you claim to have experienced is simply impossible.
By our standards... yes.
Please answer the question, Doctor.
Is it possible. Yes. But 
Thank you, Doctor. Now 
 but I don't believe it to be the truth.
So why don't you admit what by your own standards must be the truth: that this experience simply didn't happen.
Because I can't.
Dr. Cullers?
Kent, Kent for Chrissakes. You must be Eleanor.
Ellie. Pulsar?
1919+21. Found a glitch in the timing; probably a starquake.
Nice. Where?
Here, right around Centaurus A.
This is how you see the sky?
It's how I hear it. The display's just a little something I programmed for astronomers with the misfortune of sight.
It's beautiful.
Never seen the optical sky myself, but I hear it's nice too.
You've only searched  what is it, sixteen hundred stars without a peep? Try not to take it too personally.
Thank you, Mr. Sensitive. I'm coming at this wrong... missing something... something...
Okay, let's just slow down. Pull up the starfield signal origin.
It can't be coming from Vega, the system's too young.
Can't we get rid of them?
It's a civilian facility.
I think we just hit the cosmic jackpot.
It's incredibly rich. We've been cataloging it in frames or 'pages'; right now we're on 10,413.
J39 Z186...?
Been there, done that, got the Tshirt.
VB10's an M dwarf; Signa Draconis... too old.
Got a bogey, boss?
I'm not sure. You mind checking right ascension 18 hours, 34 minutes; declination plus 38 degrees 41 minutes?
Hydrogen times pi... Got it. Strong sucker.
Put it on speakers.
That can't be right; it's only twentysix light years away.
I scanned it at Arecibo; negative results, always.
How's the spying tonight, guys?
NORAD's not tracking any spacecraft in our vector including snoops; shuttle Endeavor's in sleep mode.
Dr. Lunacharsky...?
Analyzing signal polarization shifts.
What...
In ancient times when parchment was in short supply people would write over old writing... it was called a palimpsest.
A third layer.
There's no way of knowing. Without a key  a primer, to help us, maybe never.
Maybe it'll be at the end of the data when the message recycles.
What?
We've repeated. A few minutes ago the message cycled back to page one.
And?
No primer.
How can that be?
I don't know. Maybe there is a fourth layer in there somewhere, but if there is, I sure as hell can't find it.
What does it say?
It could be anything. The first volume of some Encyclopedia Galactica...
Because you cut it from the budget three years running.
How soon will you be able to decode it?
... And while its function remains, for the moment, a mystery, my best guess is that it represents a transport of some kind.
A transport. So are they coming or are we going?
Mr. Rank's organization represents the point of view of tens of millions of families, Dr. Arroway. Feel free to disagree, but there won't be any suppressing of opinions here today.
Yes  of course  all I'm saying is, this message was written in the language of science  mathematics  and was clearly intended to be received by scientists. If it had been religious in nature it should have taken the form of a burning bush, or a booming voice from the sky...
What's the status of the decryption effort?
Well 
I'm sorry, Miss Arroway, not only is it too Speculative a subject for a doctoral dissertation, at this point in your career it'd be tantamount to suicide.
I'm willing to take that risk.
I'm not. You're far too promising a scientist to waste your considerable gifts on this nonsense 
Dr. Drumlin, we are talking about what could potentially be the most important discovery in the history of humanity. There are over four hundred billion stars out there 
And only two probabilities: One: there is intelligent life in the universe but they're so far away you'll never contact it in your lifetime 
You're 
Two: There's nothing out there but noble gasses and carbon compounds and you'd be wasting your time.
What if you're wrong? No  I'll grant you probabilities but as a scientist without all the evidence  you can't deny the possibility  and I believe even the remotest possibility of something this profoundly... profound is worth investigation  and worth taking a few risks.
I disagree.
Then disagree but don't stand in my way!
Pepsi? Tequila?
No, thanks.
Peter sends his regards.
Oh? How's he doing?
Very well; since my appointment he's been made interim director.
Really? Congratulations, by the way.
I'm surprised you even knew it was an election year.
'President's Science Advisor'  so what, you just spend all your time jetting around on Air Force One now...?
Now exactly. It's... complicated.
No doubt.
Ellie...
Did I tell you we've expanded the search spectrum? We're including several other possible magic frequencies  not just the hydrogen line anymore. I was trying to get inside their heads, y'know? And I started thinking, what other constants are there in the Universe besides hydrogen, and then suddenly it was so obvious  transcendantals, right? So we've been trying variations of pi...
You know why I'm here.
It's not enough having my search time systematically cut down  you know I'm down to three hours a week now.
Ellie, I should have done this a long time ago, certainly before I left the N.S.F., but I wanted to give you every benefit of the doubt 
You can't just pull the plug, David.
It's not like you've given me much choice.
Meaning...
Meaning I have to go defend a budget to the President and to Congress and you're out here listening to washing machines.
I'm searching for patterns in the noise, that's all. Order in the chaos. I'm practicing listening 
The point is, this isn't just scientific inquiry anymore  it's turned into some kind of personal obsession.
The difference being what  that I refuse to adopt the standard line, that I don't care about the results of my work? Well, I do care. Of course any discovery has to be verifiable, of course it must be subject to all rigors of scientific method, but I refuse to go around pretending I'm some kind of dispassionate automaton when it's obvious to anyone with a brain I'm just not.
No... You're not. But the price has just gotten too high.
Goddamnit, they are out there, David 
Then why haven't you detected any signals? If, as you claim, there have been thousands, millions of advanced civilizations out there for millions of years then why hasn't one signal gotten through? It'll take a month or two for the paperwork to go through; you're welcome to stay until then.
David 
It was a worthy experiment  worthy of you; I was wrong about that part. But it's over now.
Mathematics is the only truly universal language, Senator. We think this may be a beacon  an announcement to get our attention.
If it's attention you want I'd say you've got it. Just one thing: Why Vega? Everyone's looked at Vega for years with no results, and now, yesterday, they start broadcasting primes. Why?
It's hardly yesterday; the signal's been traveling for over twentysix years. As for why... I'm hoping your own expertise in decryption algorithms will help us find out  to see if there's another message buried deeper in the signal.
... could it be a nested code of some sort?
You must have checked the signal for polarization modulation already...
Throw a gray scale on it; standard interpolation.
Rotate 90 degrees counterclock wise.
... Arrangements also have to be made for the V.I.P.s coming in, mostly religious leaders...
What? Why?
The theological ramifications of all this are obvious; the President feels we need to include religious interests rather than alienate them. She's also named Palmer Joss as their liaison; he's requested a meeting with you.
With me.
Apparently he's genuinely interested in science. This could be a chance to win him over.
I'm going to convert Mr. Scienceis therootofallevil? This is absurd, David. We have work to do here, I don't have time to play babysitter to the God Squad.
Ellie 
I want you to listen to me, carefully. The minute the implications of this message became clear, this stopped being simply a scientific matter and became a political one  an extremely complex, extremely volatile one. There are forces at work here you don't understand; I can help you up to a point, but only up to a point.
Are you threatening me?
It's not a threat, Ellie, it's a fact  if you're not careful, you may find yourself out in the cold very quickly. Play ball. Really. It's good advice.
Ms. President, this is communist paranoia right out of War of the Worlds. There is no reason whatsoever to believe the ETIs intentions are hostile. We pose no threat to them  it would be like us going out of our way to destroy microbes on a beach in Africa.
Interesting analogy. And how guilty would we feel if we happened to destroy some microbes on a beach in Africa?
What is it? What's happened?
We've cracked it. Lunacharsky found it.
You mean 
You were right, Ellie. You were right all along.
David 
Ellie.
Do you have a minute  ?
Actually I'm running late 
It'll just take a moment.
David... I know we've had our differences... but I've always thought of you as a fair man, even when we've disagreed  and It's in that light I'm hoping you'll consider my request...
I don't understand.
I'm asking for your help, David. I want to go. They'll need someone relatively young, unattached  and probably a scientist. As the President's Science Advisor you have enormous weight... I'm asking if you'll support my candidacy.
Ellie... you should know that I'm no longer the President's Science Advisor.
What?
As of three o'clock this afternoon. I submitted my resignation.
You...
Excuse me, I'm late for a meeting.
... Two years is still a hell of a long time  and as far as we can tell there aren't any provisions in the machine design for storing food, water, even air...
... I can't believe they wouldn't take something as basic as our biological needs into account...
They knew our level of development. If, as you say, they've done this many times they'd be well aware of the implications.
Maybe they are. Maybe this is all part of the package. The building of the machine has demanded international cooperation on an unprecedented scale. Maybe requiring us to come together in this way was, in effect, part of the plan.
You aren't staying?
This... seemed best.
Right. Well.
Good luck, David.
Ellie... we both know that if I was any kind of a man, I never would've entered this race. That I would have told the President straight out: Helen, Eleanor Arroway is naive and strident and an enormous pain in the ass... but she's got more courage and intelligence than the rest of us put together. That more then anyone else on the planet, she's earned this. And that she should be the one to go because she's the best we have. But that's not who I am. I like to think it's who I might've been if things had gone a different way; that I might have been worthy, really worthy of what I've been given... You do what you have to do. And in the end, as with everything, it comes down to power. And it isn't fair...
What would you have me say, David?
Nothing. I guess I just wanted to thank you.
Thank you?
For giving me a chance, just for a moment, to feel what it must be like to be you.
Now I remember why I went into theoretical work. Kent.
Glad to have you, David. How's the new office?
Still settling in, really. Where's Dr. Arroway?
Nothing. Okay. Some of us have been a little... not concerned, exactly, but...
Tell me.
Last week, about 3 A.M., Fish  Dr. Fisher  was on a late shift, and he found her doing laundry.
So?
So... there wasn't any clothes in the machine. She was just sitting there on the floor with her ear pressed up against the Maytag. Listening.
Dr. Arroway 
Michael Kitz, National Security Advisor.
Dr. Arroway, let me first say 
Mike, because of the Earth's rotation we're only in line with Vega so many hours a day; the only way to get the whole message is to cooperate with other stations. If Dr. Arroway hadn't moved quickly we could have lost key elements.
Okay, fine, they've got the primes  but if you're right about there being another more significant transmission still to come 
Hope there's a cartoon.
How is that possible? How could all that information be encoded in 
What in the hell...?
It's a hoax. I knew it!
 Or 'you're our kind of people '
 It's extremely unlikely that they had any idea what they were looking at.
... And this is how the extraterrestrial presented himself to you? As your father?
Yes, sir.
He died... ... in 1972.
Yes, sir.
Dr. Arroway, do you think it's possible you had some kind of... delusional episode.
Is it possible...?
All the elements are there. A woman, orphaned young, under a great deal of stress. The failure of a project she's staked her selfworth and very sense of identity on  induces a fantasy of reuniting with her 'father in heaven' as it were. Is it possible?
You don't believe it to be... tell me something, Doctor. Why do you think they would go to all this trouble... bring you tens of thousands of light years, and then send you home without a shred of proof? Sort of bad form, wouldn't you say? What was their intent?
I don't know. Ultimately their motives may be as incomprehensible as their technology.
What?
I'm not sure. We have no launch protocol; the entry of the passenger is supposed to initiate activation.
Anything happening in there, El?
We have benzel activation, repeat, we have benzel activation. Control to Arroway, you okay in there? Repeat, Control to Arroway, come back.
Ellie?
We've lost contact.
Pull the plug. Get her out of there.
There's no plug to pull.
What?
There is no abort procedure  we don't know how we turned the damn thing on, let alone how to turn it off.
We're waiting for jurisdictional problems to be cleared up. This guy Fletcher's something else.
Tell me about it.
While we walk. D.C. police want him for assault. Secret Service for counterfeiting and we're tracking him on a string of bank robberies. No one knows what the C.I.A. wants him for.
Wait 
Guy's a C.I.A. shrink. Here to I.D. Fletcher. They knew each other somehow.
You don't understand 
Which way did he go?
I don't know. Didn't see him.
That's the book Hinkley had on him when he shot Reagan.
I was just thinking that.
You're welcome! Spooks. So, you want to compare notes on this guy.
No. Not yet.
Agent Lowry.
Wasn't my idea.
Jonas?
It's his show for now. Look, you want to get some dinner? Inter Agency cooperation and all?
When I'm ready to compare notes, I'll let you know.
Your call. Have a good night.
Can I talk to you a second?
Go ahead. We'll be right down.
Do you believe me?
Yeah, I do.
I want to believe you, too.
What do you mean?
Who's the Deputy Director of the F.B.I.?
You think we have time to fool around like this? Come on.
What gave me away?
Nothing. I was just making sure. So, who are you?
I'm, it really doesn't matter. Think C.I.A. and exponentiate. I'm a government employee and I've been watching Jerry for awhile.
And Jonas?
He's why I watch Jerry. Jerry's the bait for Jonas.
He's shown himself. Why haven't you arrested him or killed him or done whatever it is you do?
Jonas builds assassins for a living. Several of whom may be in place already. We'd like to kill a few birds with one stone.
Where do you think Jerry is?
No idea. Honest. What are you going to do?
I'm going to find him. Because he'd find me.
Don't go home. And don't go to work. Either one could be bad.
What do you suggest?
That you come with me.
I don't think so.
Ah, your psychotic is here.
Not today...
Tell him I'm on vacation. That I won't be back for two weeks.
I don't know if you're the best lawyer I've got or a high school sophomore.
I've been given a cease and desist on all matters relating to Jerry Fletcher. We're not to discuss him with the press, the N.Y.P.D., anyone. Building police are to arrest him on sight and we're to report any attempt he makes to contact you.
This doesn't make sense.
It makes perfect sense. Field work is not our oeuvre.
I don't like it. Something's wrong.
Dr. Jonas thought you might be inclined not to cooperate. Why is that?
We don't know who Jonas is. We don't know who it is we're cooperating with.
I've had a lot of credentials flashed in my face, Liza. What I saw yesterday, I know not to ask questions. We're out. Shut off. Terminated. <u>Understood</u>?
 Understood.
Go to the northeast corner. Call a cab. Bring the pizza. Then there's a poem. Roses are red, violets are blue, if the Pope goes to Washington, I would, too.
What the hell does that mean?
Federal Bureau of Investigation.
I need to speak with an Agent Lowry.
The office is closed for the evening. Is this an emergency?
Do you <u>have</u> an Agent Lowry in your New York office?
Yes.
Then this is a goddamn emergency.
Go ahead, Miss Sutton.
Agent Lowry?
So, you doing anything tonight?
Working.
Hmm, how about tomorrow night?
Working.
Night after that?
Look, you're a nice guy, but I'm not really dating right now.
I'm not that good at 'no,' Liza.
Too bad. Because I'm terrible at 'yes.'
Liza, settle a bet for us.
What do I look like to you? Switzerland?
Can I ask you something?
A dog bit it.
Excuse me?
You were going to ask about my nose. The poor animal is slated to be destroyed today.
And you feel bad for it?
It was my dog. Let me ask you a question. How long have you been acquainted with Jerry?
So he thinks NASA is plotting to kill the President?
You already asked me that. Why do you insist on making me repeat myself?
And you have no idea where he lives?
You've asked me that one three times.
Here's a fresh one. Why you? Your colleague Mr. Wilson says Jerry won't speak to anyone else. That seems oddly possessive behavior to me.
I'm sorry. What was the question again?
<u>Why you</u>?
Honestly? I think he has a crush on me.
A charming term. Now, <u>why him</u>?
Excuse me?
Jerry's visits to your office. Why do you tolerate them? Why him?
A year ago I was leaving work late one night. Two guys tried to mug me. It was horrible. Jerry came out of nowhere. To my rescue. Then he started coming to see me. Could've been a storybook if he wasn't crazy. At first I did my beat to avoid him. But there's something inside Jerry and... Jerry made me see it. <u>He made me</u> <u>see him</u>. That make sense?
Veritas. Truth. What is it they say about truth?
The truth shall make you free.
That's it. I went to Yale. I hope you won't hold that against me.
Only on the football field.
I didn't know the C.I.A. had psychiatrists.
We're very specialized.
Brain washing, mind control, that sort of thing?
Reeducating trained killers in the ways of polite society. Making sure the men who've gone over the edge won't hurt anyone. That sort of thing.
If you're as impressed to see me as I am to see you, you're very impressed indeed. How's Jerry feeling this morning?
Fine. What the hell is going on?
Please, sit.
What I'm about to tell you is partially documented. The Freedom of Information Act saw to that. But much more of it isn't. For reasons which will soon be regrettably clear, I'm going to share  secrets  with you. Repeat any of it and you'll simply bestow the title of 'paranoid' upon yourself.
Truth'll set you free. I'm listening.
Years ago, I worked for the C.I.A. in the M.K. ULTRA program. Are you familiar with it?
It was mind control. <u>Manchurian</u> <u>Candidate</u> kind of stuff, right?
A vulgar pop term, but yes. Take an ordinary man and turn him into an assassin. That was our goal.
Ask what you can do for your country. That kind of thing.
M.K. ULTRA was terminated in 1973. But not the research. It was renamed. EX CATCHER.
As in <u>Catcher in the Rye</u>?
I am impressed. We used the distinctive cover as a sort of mental flash card.
We experimented with hallucinogens. We used electro shock to produce a vegetative state. We conducted terminal experiments in sensory deprivation.
Terminal?
As in 'resulting in death.' We pushed the envelope until it wasn't even an envelope anymore.
If I had any idea what to charge you with or how to prove it, I'd arrest you right here.
Me? I was a minor missionary, a heretic really. But where else could a redblooded American boy lie, cheat, steal and kill with the sanction and blessings of the AllHighs? Besides, now I'm trying to pay my penance.
Missionary? Penance? You talk about it like it was a religion.
It was. It was.
Jerry told me he bit your nose.
And what did I say?
A dog.
<u>My dog</u>. One I intend to put to sleep. Extrapolate from there.
These things you're talking about. You did them to Jerry?
Yes, that's right.
I'm still listening.
Jerry is dangerous. Jerry has killed 
I don't believe you.
Belief is immaterial. What's important is the truth... It's been my job to find Jerry. I'm very much responsible for him.
If this was a spy novel, your next words would be something like I now know too much to live. Why are you telling me all this?
So you'll believe what I tell you next. Because I need to find Jerry. And I don't think I can do that without you.
Where'd you get it?
You do recognize it then?
It was my father's. Kept it in his wallet. He was murdered 
I know the story. A federal judge. He denied a man in prison an appeal for a new trial.
Not a man. Ezekiel Walters.
Walters had nothing to do with your father's murder.
You sound so sure.
In Jerry's safety deposit box.
I don't understand.
It's okay. I'm game.
I want this box rigged with a beacon!
Thank you.
You're welcome. Where's my partner?
I like that. A gun to your head and you ask about your partner. He's okay. May have a headache for a few days. Are you here with honorable intentions?
I'm not sure what you mean.
You should think of me as Liza Sutton's guardian angel.
That's ironic. Because we're here to protect her from you.
You're here because you figured I might show up.
It seemed like a possibility. What about your intentions? Are they honorable?
I'm not a violent man, Mr. Lowry. Not by nature, anyhow. But if you hurt Liza in any way, I'll kill you. Does that seem honorable?
Well, I don't know if 
You made your decision yet?
I'm leaning toward no.
That's your option. Ours could be to keep you locked up for a very long time. In case you didn't know it, you're crazy.
I'll do it. On one condition. I want to make sure she's okay.
We got someone watching her 24 hours a day. She 
That's not what I mean. I want to see her.
I don't know...
Then screw you. I'll rot.
Alright. You can see her. But she can't see you.
Whatever.
Do I know you?
Yes you do, Jerry. Quite well.
I'm a very patient man.
That's great. Good for you.
Who have you been talking to, Jerry? Who else knows what you know?
Could you be a little more specific?
What's that?
Lysergic acid diethylamide... With a little kicker of my own. Surely it must be coming back to you by now?
We've arranged for you to take the blame. Everyone knows how you've been harassing the poor girl.
<u>Liza</u>!
You shouldn't watch, Jerry. It's a moment without hope.
You've never seen her run.
Liza Sutton is dead.
Then I can't be hurt anymore.
I don't see the connection.
Come on! Six major earthquakes in the last three years? The space shuttle in orbit for every one of them?
Testing some top secret seismic weapon.
Not testing. <u>Using</u>. Nukes are passe. This is the weapon of the future.
I still don't see what it has to do with the President.
Do you still ride?
Not for years.
So why do you keep the picture up? You wish you hadn't quit?
Well, I  Jerry, the point. Get there. What does it have to do with the President?
The President's in Europe. Tomorrow he'll be in Turkey. Right along this fault line. They launched the space shuttle yesterday.
Motive?
He's cutting funding for NASA. The milk cow of the aerospace industry. We're talking billions. Motive enough?
<u>NASA</u> is going to kill the President of the United States with an earthquake.
Not exactly the kind of thing a Secret Service Agent can throw himself on top of.
You going to warn him?
I can't promise you anything.
You think I'm crazy.
I think you're different.
You know, to be 'normal' and live in the 'real world,' to swallow Coca cola and eat Kentucky Fried Chicken, you have to be in a conspiracy <u>against yourself</u>. I can't lie to me, Liza. And the more I strip through the sham, the crazier I look to people like you. Can't you see that's what they're counting on? You want to go out sometime?
No.
I better get going.
You don't have to burst in here every time, Jerry. Just call and make an appointment.
What was your horse's name?
Johnny Dancer. You've been in my office ten times. How come you never asked me about that picture before?
Was waiting till I knew you better. Johnny Dancer, huh? Sounds like a racehorse.
I bit the bastard's nose off.
You bit someone's nose off?
Yes! Don't let's get into this thing where I have to repeat myself!
It's a man without a nose you want, you dumb complicit sons of bitches! You've got to listen to me.
Put down the gun and I'll take your statement. Okay?
You're the boss. Just don't make me repeat myself. I hate that.
What's the charge?
You were there, Jerry. Figure it out.
Just relax.
Switch the charts.
What?
Switch 'em. Or I'll be dead by morning. Don't want to be dead.
I'll see you tomorrow.
Hey... I can't control it. It's just, something that happened.
What is?
Love.
People do have heart attacks.
Sure. You switched the charts, didn't you?
It's okay. The guy traded bullets with some old man in a liquor store. He had it coming.
You expect me to believe what, that someone came in here last night. Gave that guy... something that stopped his heart?
You switched the charts; you tell me.
I got to get downstairs. The C.I.A., they want to see your body.
Really?
I won't be here when you get back, but I'll be in touch. And thanks.
For what?
You saved my life.
<u>Heart attacks happen</u>.
He says a dog bit his nose.
Arf... You gotta help me.
I can't promise you anything.
Lucky guess... Um, I'd feel a lot less naked if we could get outta here.
Don't tell me you're naked back there.
Figure of speech. Could we go?
What took so long? You were in there all day.
That's how long it takes to turn a hospital inside out. A lot of people are after you, Jerry.
Dead or alive, they'll stick me in there with Oswald. Another lunatic acting alone,
Oswald was an assassin. You're not an assassin, are you, Jerry?
If you're worried about the President, call and warn him about the Space Shuttle.
Right. Sit up so I can see you.
Uh uh, don't want <u>them</u> to see me.
Them who?
Change lanes. Then watch your rearview.
Flat, wraparound headlights?
Yeah.
Crown Victoria. F.B.I. car. A legitimate tail.
As opposed to?
People more serious about their work. You know how to drive this thing or do you just like looking good in it?
You mean I should speed up and try and lose them?
Yes.
That's how a man would do it. I'm not a man.
I noticed.
See? Wasn't that a lot easier than squealing tires and knocking over trash cans?
Nothing is easy.
How long have we known each other, Jerry?
Six months. Eleven days.
Till today, I haven't believed a word. Now, I'm curious. Six months, eleven days. I'm going to give you one more hour to impress me. Where to?
You have the right to ask me certain personal questions?
Yeah. I think so.
Nothing scary there. Sorry.
Oh, well, maybe to the untrained eye. Hmm... Ahh... Ooooo...
More about life on Mars. From a rock they <u>found</u> on the South Pole. Explain that one to me. But maybe we should go to Mars and find out? How much do you think that's going to cost?
What is it with you and the space program?
And look here. Cease fire in Chechenia. That's good for the banks who lent the government money, but bad for the guys selling them weapons. Listen to this, some gas company in Colorado. Their researchers have been blocked from testing a fuel additive. They've accused the E.P.A. of, quote, 'turning a blind <u>eye</u> to the future.'
Well that's the eye right there. <u>Money</u>. And all the power and misery it brings with it. It's a plot to take over the world. The Master Conspiracy. Can take a lifetime to pull off.
Do they have a secret handshake?
That's it?
I have no idea.
So why are they after you?
I'm not sure. I think I figured something out. It must've been in my newsletter.
What newsletter?
So I'm a little jumpy. Who wouldn't be?
You're certifiable.
You wouldn't be sitting here if you didn't halfway believe me.
Believe you about what?
You okay?
Flesh wound. No big deal.
You know why the Grateful Dead are always on tour?
Surprise me.
The whole kit and caboodle of 'em are British Intelligence agents. <u>Spies</u>. Jerry Garcia had a double o rating. Just like James Bond.
You want something to drink?
Um, coffee. If that's okay?
If my universe had a hub...
This would be it?
Equitation.
I've been reading up on it.
Are these yours?
Here it is. <u>Conspiracy Theory</u> It just went out Tuesday. Third issue this year. I bet I struck a nerve. Pissed someone off.
'The Space Shuttle's Seismic Secret'. 'The Oliver StoneGeorge Bush Connection'. Oliver Stone?
Stone is their spokesman. You think if someone really had all that information and a national podium to shout it out from that they'd let him do it? Stone's a disinformation flunky. The face that he's alive says it all.
Can you prove any of this?
Absolutely not. A good conspiracy is an unprovable conspiracy. If you can figure it out, they screwed it up.
'On July 8, 1979, security forces under control of the Trilateral Commission abducted the fathers of all American Nobel Prize winners. The men, many of them octogenarians, were forced at gunpoint to ejaculate into small plastic bottles. The sperm collected is now under study in a laboratory beneath the headquarters of the Rand Corporation in Santa Monica, California.'
Pretty scary, huh?
Yeah... how many subscribers do you have?
Just five. It's the economy... You think maybe one of them is not who they seem?
You got a list?
You're a Holden Caulfield fan.
Who?
Holden Caulfield? <u>Catcher in the</u> <u>Rye</u>?
Never heard of him.
You have ten copies of the book, but you don't know who the main character is?
I've never read it. I just  Every time I see one I buy it. I don't know why exactly... Wanna hear my favorite part?
What are you doing?
Getting rid of my hub!
Was that who I thought it was?
Uh huh.
Has this happened to you before?
Never, but I've been practicing.
Who are you, Jerry?
Just a guy trying to put out a fire.
You gave me an hour; now give me a day.
Jerry, there's something I have to ask you. Actually about a hundred things, but we can make progress, if you answer one question. To my satisfaction.
Shoot.
It was that painting. The one on the wall.
I didn't mean for you to see it. It's like looking in someone's diary and taking it out of context. Know what I mean?
It made me feel like you could see inside of me. And I don't know how that's possible.
So what's the question?
How is it possible?
I'll give you 100 bucks if you leave right now.
Is this your dad?
That was him.
Is he dead?
Please put it down.
How'd he die?
He was murdered.
He's why you punish yourself.
Not this again.
You run with your back to the picture. Like you were trying to get away. Once in awhile you sing along with music, but mostly you punish yourself.
You watch me, don't you?
Johnny Dancer, right? You don't ride him anymore, do you? Not since your dad died.
Fuck you. I know you're crazy, but fuck you.
Did you see the van back there?
What van?
Never mind. You'd think I was making it up.
Where'd you get your subscribers?
I put an ad on a computer bulletin board. I log on at the library so I can't be traced.
Well, I've been tracking them down all morning.
You haven't been bothering them, have you?
They're dead. Four out of five anyhow. All in the last 24 hours. One car accident, two heart attacks and a stroke.
Jesus... It's my fault. They drew a black line over me and now I'm passing it on. I'm passing it to you, too.
I'll be fine. Let's worry about Henry Finch. P.O. Box in St. Louis. He's the last on the list. I haven't been able to reach him yet.
Maybe you better not try... I worked so hard to keep quiet. Like a mouse. I should have realized.
Realized what?
Henry Finch. That they monitor everything. That it was only a matter of time. And now four people are dead.
Elaborate on 'they,' okay?
There are all kinds of groups, all kinds of initials. But they're all part of two warring factions. One: families that have held wealth for centuries. They want one thing. Stability. Group Two: the boat rockers. Eisenhower's military industrial complex. They want instability. It's a trillion dollar a year business. When there isn't a hot war, they make a cold one.
Cold War's over, Jerry.
So now they feed us terrorists. <u>To create fear</u>. How much do you think an airport security system goes for? Then multiply it by every airport in the country.
And you think Group One is at war with Group Two.
Latest casualty? Ernest Harriman. You heard of him?
Sure. One of the richest men in America until he died a few days ago.
His obituary was in every paper. But not one of them said he was murdered.
Murdered?
Right here in Manhattan.
It said in the paper he drowned in a swimming pool. <u>In Newport</u>.
Nobody dies in Newport. They couldn't even kill Sunny von Bulow there. Harriman drowned, but it wasn't in Newport.
Where then?
Right here. In the 7th Street subway station.
What was he doing down here? A billionaire waiting for the subway? Why not drown him in a bus? Why drown him at all? Why not shoot him? Is the hitman from the lost world of Atlantis? I mean, come on.
I see the big picture and you stumble around in the details.
They're big details, Jerry.
Do you watch the news? Read the paper. Last week, this whole place was underwater.
A water main broke.
They don't break in the summer! Do you know what building is right over this spot? Harriman Tower. Their subbasement was flooded! He didn't die in a pool. Call the coroner in Rhode Island! Ask if the water in his lungs was chlorinated!
Okay, I will.
You will?
If that's what you want. Yes.
I don't know what to say. I love you.
What?
I  It's like, I resolve to call you up 1000 times a day. To ask you if you'll marry me in some oldfashioned way. Everything you do is magic.
Those are song lyrics, Jerry.
I know that. I'm just  I'm nervous. I reached out and grabbed the first thing out there. I know they're song lyrics. And I know how I feel.
I like you, Jerry. A lot.
Oh, Christ, here it comes. Look, I know you think I'm crazy. I don't think I am, but...
Jerry, I 
What if I reached a point where you didn't think I was crazy anymore? If I was normal.
If you were eating Kentucky Fried Chicken and drinking CocaCola again.
Yeah... Would you, I mean, could you love me then? If I was normal. Maybe?
Don't do this to yourself. Jerry. You don't love me.
You're wrong. Since I met you, I don't dream about holes anymore.
Holes? I don't know what you're talking about.
Yesterday you were wondering about the wall. How it was possible.
Now's not really the time to get into this 
It's Geronimo. Love. It lets you see things. It gives you insight. I've loved you since the first time I saw you.
Answer me. Was the first time you saw me the first time I saw you? Was it? You've been following me around. Do you see how that could be disconcerting to me? That's not love, Jerry. It's obsession. And it isn't normal and you can't expect me to respond to it and you can't expect me to feel the same way. Can you?
I would never hurt you, Liza. Think whatever you want, but don't think that.
I don't. I know you wouldn't.
I thought you  Why  Love ruins everything, doesn't it?
You look great.
Thanks.
Are you okay? I wish I hadn't told you what I did. But I can't help the way I feel. You don't hold that against me, do you?
No. That wouldn't be fair. Where are we going, Jerry?
It would be a lot easier for me to show you instead of tell you. But first things first.
What is it?
There's a car following us. Probably another one flanking us the next street over.
We're going to Queens?
Not today.
Now what?
This way.
After you. It's okay. I'm the one who left it here.
Where are we going, Jerry?
Connecticut.
What's in Connecticut?
What about them?
How come serial killers have two names, but lone gunman assassins have three. John <u>Wilkes</u> Booth. Mark <u>David</u> Chapman. Lee <u>Harvey</u> Oswald.
John Hinkley. The guy who shot Reagan. He only had two names.
Reagan didn't die. If he had died, everybody would know what Johnny's middle name was.
My father's house.
Come on.
How do you really know there's gold in Fort Knox? Just because they say so? We should go to Tennessee and demand to see it.
You go. Send me a postcard.
Liza?
Did you kill him?
Is that what they told you?
Did you kill my father?
Then why did you have his picture in your safe deposit box?
He gave it to me.
I don't understand.
Where were you the day he died?
At a horse show.
That's the last time you rode, isn't it? Do you think it was your fault? Is that why?
Did you kill my father?!
No...! But they trained me to. M.K. ULTRA. EXCATCHER. America works. Get rid of the crazy people, the lone gunmen, and the system still works.
Jerry. Please. You don't understand. I have to know. It's all I think about. Do you have any idea what it's like not to know?
Yeah. I know what it's like.
Then tell me what happened.
Can't give you the details because I can't remember. I went to court to kill him. At the Ezekiel Walters hearing. I was supposed to shoot him at the press conference. You were there. That's the first time I saw you.
Love at first sight?
I don't know what it was. All I know is I had a gun in my hand, but when I saw you standing with him, I couldn't do it. If that's love, it's not so bad. I found a part of myself that day. I couldn't go back.
Back where?
To Jonas. I didn't know that at the time. Didn't know who he was. But I knew inside, whoever he was, he'd send someone else. So I started watching your father. I wanted to keep him safe.
Someone else might call it stalking. My dad felt it. He started carrying a gun.
He kept it in the side table in the front hallway. He showed me. I visited a few times. Then one of Jonas's guys visited. When I arrived, your dad was dying.
Why? What do these guys have to do with Ezekiel Walters?
Walters was their fall guy. Blow up a building and blame a nut. Create fear. Don't you see? Your father wasn't trying to keep Walters in prison. He was looking into getting him out. He didn't believe the official story.
Why not?
<u>Why not, Jerry</u>?
Because he believed me.
How'd you get the picture?
Your father, he was dying. He was worried about you. He took your picture out to look at it. He called you his baby.
I believe you.
You do?
You got to get out of here. My cell phone's on. Back in the truck.
They'll trace it.
I'm sorry.
It's okay. You... You thought I was bad.
Blue moon... Blue moon...
Jerry...? <u>Jerry</u>.
Blue moon...
You saw me standing alone ...
Without a song in my heart.
Without a love of my own.
Blue moon...
You knew just what I was there for.
Liza?
Where are you?
How did you know?
I spent two years here. This used to bring the medcart. Demerol. Phenobarb. It's Jacob's Ladder.
Get in. I'll pull you up to the fourth floor.
What about you?
Get up there and we'll get it back down here for me. <u>Now</u>.
Geronimo is down.
It's up. Love gives you wings. You can fly away from here.
Don't do this.
Don't die on me, Jerry. Okay?
I can't promise you anything.
You've been my best friend for years and I didn't even know you were out there.
Top pocket... Go on.
They changed Franklin's portrait.
You think it's a conspiracy?
Don't know, but he looks a lot more like Rosie O'Donnel than Ben Franklin.
I love you, too.
Now she tells me.
What're you thinking, Jerry?
Water mains usually go in the winter. It's August 1st.
Tell you what. Reminds me of life in the Delta.
Mississippi?
Mekong, my friend, Mekong.
You know, Flip, Vietnam War was fought because of a bet Howard Hughes lost to Aristotle Onasis.
Sure. And the two of 'em used my legs for a wishbone. Nearly snapped me in half.
I gotta go, Flip. Thanks.
<u>Jerry</u>? You didn't show last night. First time ever. Had me worried, boy.
Sorry, Flip. Got sidetracked.
Saved you last night's, too.
Flip was a hero in Vietnam.
Sure was. Pounded the V.C. for this Greek cat named Ari Onasis.
Flip. You're the closest thing I got to a friend around here. Tell me something. You think I'm crazy?
Shut the hell up.
The sound of love.
Excuse me?
That's love.
Love? Love's just a pretty way of saying, 'I want to sleep with you'. Love is bullshit.
I live on tips, so don't be offended, but you're a liar. I saw you kiss. Admit it, this is the street where love lives.
Love gives you wings. It makes you fly. I don't even call it love. I call it Geronimo.
Geronimo?
Geronimo. When you're really in love, you'll jump. Off the top of the Empire State. Screaming 'Geronimo' the whole way down.
But you'll die. You'll squash yourself. What's the point?
Aren't you listening, man? Love gives you wings.
She must be some girl.
I love her so bad. She just... wrecks me. I would die for her.
I never told her.
Why the hell not?
I, uh, I have some problems.
Are you crazy?!
The guy came right at us!
You turned up a one way street!
I was only going one way.
Drop me off here!
Look, I'm sorry 
Just drop me off.
What happened?
Guy came in with a gunshot wound, but he died of a heart attack. Go figure.
They said send you downstairs.
Who?
The F.B.I., the C.I.A. You name the initials and they're down there.
Any special reason?
All I know is, they said to send you and the body to the basement.
Hello?
Oh. Sorry.
Uh, let's go to... Hello...?
Yeah, yeah, sorry...
How long you think this'll take?
Twentyfour minutes.
Twentyfour? Not twentyfive? Or twentythree?
Two minutes to get on Broadway. They're doing some roadwork around the bridge. Eleven to get downtown. Four to the Lower East Side. Six to clear the roadwork. One minute margin for error. My math says twentyfour.
Mind if I time you? What do I get if you're wrong? A free ride?
An apology.
First time in New York?
Third, but I still can't tell uptown from downtown. Tell the truth, whenever I'm here, I can't wait to leave. Place gets to me. Too loud, too fast...too much. You like it here?
It's home.
You share it with over three million people every day. You know that's the population of New Zealand? What's Manhattan, thirteen miles long? That's a lot of misery crammed into thirteen miles. Read about this one guy. Gets on the subway and dies. Six hours he's riding around before anybody notices. Think about that. Here's this corpse doing laps around Manhattan courtesy of the New York transit system, people getting on and off, sitting next to him, and still nobody catches on. Three million. That's too damn many people.
I see your point.
You know, this is the cleanest cab I've ever been in. This your regular ride?
Yeah. I share it with the dayshift guy.
You prefer nights?
People are more relaxed. Less stress, less traffic, better tips.
You on some kind of work plan?
You mean like benefits?
Yeah. Retirement? Paid sick leave?
It's not that kind of job.
You should start a union.
Me, specifically?
Why not?
Last thing I need is a reason to keep hacking. This job's a fillin.
Oh? How long you been doing this?
Twelve years. But I'm working on other stuff...
Like what?
I don't talk about it, you know... No offense.
None taken. There are talkers and doers. I like doers.
Twentyfour minutes! Man, you're hot...
Yeah. Lucky with the lights.
Bullshit. You probably know the light schedules, too. Listen, I'm in town tonight on a closing. Five stops, one night. I gotta catch a six a.m. flight. I got five stops to make, see some friends, collect some signatures. Why don't you hang with me?
I'm not a hire car. It's against regs?
Regulations? These guys don't even give you sick leave. How much you pull down on a good night?
Two, twofifty.
I'll make it an even five hundred. Plus an extra hundred if you get me to LAX on time.
We have a deal. What's your name?
Max.
Max? I'm Vincent.
He fell on my cab! From up thththere.
You always stutter?
Yeah, yeah. Shit, man. Guy fell on my motherfucking cab.
I think he's dead.
No shit. Since he has two .45s double tapped through the sternum and fell six floors onto his head...
You  you killed him?
Nono, II shot him. The bullets and the fall killed him.
You cool, Max? Say "I'm cool."
You're cool.
No. You say you're cool.
I'm cool.
Good. Help me out here.
With what?
You were going to drive me around. Drop me at LAX. Never be the wiser. But El Gordo missed the elevator. So we go to Plan B. Pop the trunk.
The trunk?
Did I stutter? The trunk. Unless you want him riding up front with you...but given hygiene and his sphincters have let go...
I'm gonna roll him off the hood. Always lift with your legs...
I don't think I can do this.
It's just a dead guy. On three, ready? Uno. Dos. Three.
Got it?
Yeah.
What?
His hand moved! His goddamn hand twitched!
It's a spasm! Jesus, Max, don't be such a girl...
Uh, look...why don't you just take the car...
...and you promise you'll never tell anybody about this, right? Get in the fucking car.
Max. May we leave the scene of the crime now, please.
I'm trying...
Max.
It's not me.
You listening to me?
Yes! I'm trying, I swear!
Try harder. I'm gonna count to three. One...
Two...
It's not me, it's the engine! A fat guy fell on it from six floors up!
What about that?
I tried it.
How about the thingy next to it?
The thingy next to it has nothing to do with the starter motor...
I'm making <u>you</u> nervous. I'm the one with a schedule.
Okay, try it now.
Try some deep breathing.
What?
Adrenaline's wearing off. You get shaky after. It's not uncommon. Deep breathing helps.
You better?
I think so.
What are you doing?
It's a mess.
So?
58th and Central. You know it?
South Central.
How long, you figure?
Oh. Oh, no. You're kidding. We...
I told you we had other stops to make tonight.
You said you were visiting friends!
They're <u>somebody's</u> friends... You drive a cab. I kill people. We both do our jobs right, you might survive the night and come out four hundred bucks ahead.
Listen. I'm not trying to piss you off, see? Okay? I can't drive you around so you can murder folks.
Tonight it is.
You don't understand. I mean it. Really. I'm not up for this...
Are you breathing?
Yes.
What else calms you down? Candy? Cigarettes? Sex? Breathe.
Music.
Play music.
Chopin prelude. Stodgy, but nice. Here's the deal. I didn't want you involved in this. Still breathing? But now that you are, we have to make the best of it, Max. Improvise. Life is that way. Adapt to your environment. Survive. Darwin. "Shit happens." The I Ching. Whatever. Roll with it.
I Ching? You threw a man out a window!
I didn't throw him, he fell.
What'd he do to you?
Nothing. I only met him the one time.
How can you kill him like that?
I should only kill people after I get to know 'em? Six billion people on the planet, you're getting bent out of shape 'cause of one fat guy?
Who was he?
What do you care? Ever hear of Rwanda?
RwandaBurundi. Central Africa.
Tens of thousands killed before sundown. Nobody's killed that fast since Hiroshima and Nagasaki. Did you bat an eye, Max? Join Amnesty International? No. I off one Angeleno, you throw a hissy fit...
I don't know any Rwandans.
You don't know the guy in the trunk, either. If it makes you feel better, he was a villain involved in a Continuing Criminal Enterprise.
Oh, it's okay, then. 'Cause you're just taking out the garbage...
Yeah, like that... But, anyway, nobody gets out of this alive. Even if we quit smoking and cut out red meat. Everybody dies.
Get rid of 'em.
How?
You're a cabby. Like talk yourself out of a ticket?
Please. Don't do anything.
Then don't let me get cornered, Max. You don't have the trunk space.
I can't believe this.
Believe it.
I'll talk to them, I'll talk to them.
Good luck. You think they got families?
That one's probably married. Think of his kids. His wife's pregnant...
I'll deal with it. I will, I will...
Hands on the wheel. Ten and two o'clock, like they taught you in driver's ed.
Why?
Because I have a gun and I say so.
Who's that?
Lenny, my dispatcher.
It was an accident. You're not liable. Tell him.
It was an accident. I'm not liable.
Don't take that. Tell him to shut the fuck up.
I can't do that. He's the Man. He'll fire my ass.
So what?
I need the job.
No you don't.
Lenny? You're an asshole.
Tell him next time he pulls any shit, you're gonna kick his fat ass.
Next time you pull any shit, I'm gonna kick your fat ass.
I had no idea these cabs came equipped with emergency strobes. Where's the button? Under the dash?
Yeah.
Another collateral.
What?
Collateral damage.
I don't understand...
People in the wrong place at the wrong time. Draws attention, which is something you avoid in my line of work. And for <u>you?</u> You attract attention, you're gonna get people killed who don't need to be.
Vincent?
Yes, Max?
Am I collateral?
But, hey, some good news. This last one put me way ahead of schedule. We've actually got some time to kill. Jazz? You like jazz?
I'm...what? Sorry?
Jazz. Music.
I listen to classical.
Friend of mine told me about this great place in South Central. Says it's like the birthplace of West Coast bebop. Bird. Dexter Gordon. Thelonious Monk. Chet Baker. I'll buy you a drink. Expand your horizons...
...see now, this has got a little post war flavor, a little Miles thing happening. Awesome. What do you think?
I never learned jazz.
God, are you always this prosaic? You don't learn jazz, it's not something you're <u>taught.</u> It's like breathing, like life. Like us, tonight, taking what comes and going with the flow.
That what we're doing? Flowing?
Damn right. Instinct, man. If you think too much, it doesn't work. Just listen...
I'm not catching a melody.
That's the point. You play <u>between</u> the notes, you dance <u>around</u> the structure, you improvise. Some people know where they're going to be ten years from now. Same job, same neighbors, same shit over and over. That's not living. That's dying a little every day. Not me, pal. It's not knowing what's around the corner that makes like worth living. That's jazz. That guy up there, he knows what I'm talking about. Hell, it's the same thing <u>he's</u> talking about, if you just open your ears. You can hear it in the conversation he's having with that trumpet...
Let him go, Vincent.
You mind? I'm working here.
You're the one who keeps talking about going with the flow. You like the man, you like the way he plays. How about a little jazz, huh?
Jazz? That's funny, coming from you. Okay, some jazz for the jazz man. How's this? I'll ask a question.
Let's go.
No.
What you mean, no?
I'm done. Find another cab.
Max? What are you doing?
Leave me alone.
Don't even think you're walking away from me.
<u>I don't wanna know you!</u>
Pull your head out of your ass. Get your thinking straight. You wanna die?
I'm collateral anyway, so just fucking do it and stop making me a part of this!
Teach him how to talk back, suddenly he can't stop. I'm not playing.
Sure? Like you didn't play him? String him along? If he had gotten the answer right, would you have let him go?
Show up for what?
Tell her I can't see her tonight, okay?
Show up for <u>what?</u>
She's in the hospital.
You go every night?
What difference does it make?
Guy with a routine goes and breaks it? Provokes attention. That's bad. And that's not good...
There's no way I'm taking you to see my mother!
Mom, Vincent's not interested.
Oh, I'm captivated.
You take one more step, I'll kill her.
You'd do her a favor.
What the fuck was <u>that?</u>
Jazz.
Limos, huh?
Don't start.
Hey, I'm not the one who's been lying to my mother.
She hears what she wants to hear, okay?
Maybe so. Maybe she hears what you tell her.
Fuck! Nothing's ever goddamn good enough! It's always been that way.
It's cause they don't like their lives, so they project their patterns of negative behavior onto you... I had a father like that.
Yeah? What happened?
He hated everything I did. Hated me. Got drunk and beat the shit out of me, daily...
What happened?
I killed him. When I was 15. He was my first. Nah, wishful thinking. Liver cancer.
I'm sorry.
Don't be. I never saw him after I was 15. Went into the military early. So all this talk about "my job's temporary, I got big plans," it's all bullshit.
It's not bullshit.
What do <u>you</u> call it? Ten years doesn't sound temporary to me. I should have known it was bullshit, you're too good at what you do.
I've always been good. Ever since I started. Gave up piano. Easy money. I'm putting a stake together, get something started. Go figure it all out...
Yeah? Like what? Limos?
I told you I don't like to talk about it.
Well, this big stake's got to be big by now. When you leaving?
See, I've got bills. My mother's been dying of the same disease since I was a kid.
What, no insurance?
Doesn't cover everything.
Good excuse. How many others you got?
Gimme your wallet.
Why?
I'll just hold onto it for you. In case they check.
In case <u>who</u> checks?
Our friends in Little Russia. Go in and ask for a man named Dmitri.
Dmitri?
The man who hired me for this contract.
I don't get it.
You're gonna be me. You're gonna go in, and you're gonna get the info on the remaining two hits.
Why me? Why don't <u>you</u> do it?
No client has ever seen my face, and I intend to keep it that way. Besides, if he decides to put a bullet in my head, I don't wanna be there for it.
He's gonna <u>shoot</u> me?
When he finds out you tossed his list? I would.
No. No way. I can't do this.
Max. You threw my briefcase in the river. You've got balls bigger than Toledo.
I...I wasn't thinking. I just did it.
That's jazz, my friend. You said it yourself. So don't tell me you don't know how to play between the notes.
Vincent. Don't make me do this. Don't make me get people killed.
We've both run out of options. If it helps, take comfort in knowing you never had a choice.
How long have you been a hit man?
Why?
In case he asks.
Fifteen years, although I prefer the term "assassin."
You get benefits?
No.
Paid sick leave?
You tell me to start a union, I'm blowing your head off. Quit stalling and get out of the cab.
Damn, Max. I'm impressed. Really. I would have bet good money you wouldn't walk out of there.
Makes two of us.
Washington and Holt. Dance club called "Fever." Know it?
Tribeca, near the waterfront, northeast corner. Twelve minutes.
You do impress me, Max. That you do.
Would you have called her?
Who?
Your lady friend. The one who gave you her business card. Think she was just being polite?
I don't know.
What holds you back, Max? Tell me. Why does life scare you so much?
I only owe you a ride, Vincent.
It's not what you owe <u>me.</u> Time is so fleeting. One day it's gone. You make it out of this alive, Max, you really should call her. That's what I think.
Good. Blood, urine and death get to you? Try deep breathing. Or remember we all die anyway...
You had to kill Heller?!
Who's Heller?
That cop! Why'd you have to do that? You couldn't wound him? The guy had a family, maybe, parents, kids who gotta grow up without a dad, he was probably a good guy; and he believed me...
I shoulda saved him 'cause he <u>believed</u> you?
No, not just that.
Yeah, that.
Yeah, so, what's wrong with that?
It's what I do for a living.
Some living.
Head towards Union Station.
What's at Union Station?
How are you at math? I was hired for five hits. I did four.
One more.
There you go...!
Whyn't you kill me and find another cab.
You're too good. We're in this together. Fates intertwined. Cosmic coincidence and all that crap...
You're full of shit.
<u>I'm</u> full of shit? You're a monument of bullshit. You even bullshitted yourself all I am, is taking out the garbage. Bad guys killing bad guys...
That's what you said...
And you believe me...?
What'd they do?
How do I know? But, they all got that "witnesses for the prosecution" look to me. Probably some major federal indictment against somebody who majorly does not want to get indicted... I dunno.
That's the reason?
That's the "why." That's the why? There is no reason. No good reason; no bad reason. To live or to die.
Then what are you?
...indifferent.
Get with it. Get over it. ...millions of galaxies of hundreds of millions of stars and a speck on one in a blink...that's us. Lost in space. The universe doesn't care. The cop, you, me? Who notices?
What happened to you?
As in...?
Man, if someone had a gun to your head and said: "You gotta tell me what's goin' on with that person over there or I'll kill you"...they'd have to kill you... 'Cause you don't have a clue for...or about...anyone... To be like that, I don't think you, you have any of that for your own life... Do you believe you're entitled or at least expect to draw breath in the a.m.? Open your eyes in the morning? I don't think you do...I don't think so... I think you are way <u>low</u>...like in your estimation. In your estimation of yourself. So how'd you get that way...?
...all the cabbies in LA, I pull Max, the man with Xray vision...
Answer the question.
Look in the mirror. ...pissant paper towels...a bottle of 409...saving up for goin' to the Comoros. How much you got saved?
None of your business.
...pie in the sky? "Someday my dream'll come..." But one night you'll wake up and realize suddenly you're old. It hasn't happened. It never will. Life just flipped on you. Tomorrow became yesterday. Then you'll bullshit yourself it was never gonna happen, anyway, and push it back in memory...and anesthetize yourself in a Barcalounger with daytime TV for the rest of your life... Don't talk to me about murder. You're <u>doin</u>' yourself...in this yellow prison with steelbelted radials. Clocking in and out everyday...
'Cause I never got it straightened up; made the push, made the moves...
Slow down.
I should have done that. Fixed it and more. Get out from under what I been under...
You're going too fast.
But you know what? Nothing matters, anyway. We are insignificant out here in the big nowhere, say the badass sociopath in my backseat. Right? Yeah. That's one thing I've got to thank you for, bro. And I never saw it that way...
Slow the hell down!
What are you gonna do, pull the trigger? Kill us? Go ahead, man! <u>Shoot</u>...my ass.
Slow down!
Vincent?
Well. That was brilliant.
Was your seatbelt fastened, honey?
Max?
Let her go.
...why is everything always about you...
...everything is not about me, don't make me the villain here. That asshole was out of line, and you goddamn well know it...
...I'm sorry, I don't see it that way...
...oh, bullshit! He was intruding on my space, he was demeaning me personally, he was patronizing...
...what do you want me to do, punch him out? I have to work with him...
...well, last I checked, you were <u>sleeping</u> with me, so unless you wanna start fucking the guy soon, I'd suggest an attitude shift...
He'll keep calling.
Max! Dammit! <u>Answer!</u>
Uh, yeah? Lenny? It's me.
I just got off the phone with the cops. They called to check you brought the cab in...
Yeah? So?
<u>So?</u> Aside from I hate talking to cops, they tell me you crashed the shit out of it.
It got crashed! I didn't...
I give a shit whose fault it was, you're payin'!
Yeah?
Where you been the last two hours? Your mother's been calling every ten minutes whining about how you didn't show up.
I know you're out there! Answer the goddamn call!
What happens if you don't?
He's not paying you one cent!
Who the hell is this?
Vincent <u>Farrell</u>, Assistant U.S. Attorney. A passenger in this taxicab, and I'm reporting you to the DMV...
Let's not get excited, sir.
How am I supposed to not get excited, listening to you trying to extort your employee, you sarcastic prick?
I was just tryin' to...to...
Tell it to Max. Tell him he's an asshole.
Max? Maaax. Pick up, dipshit.
Jesus, what is with this guy?
Maaaaaax!
You hassling my driver again?
Who is this?
Same fare you talked to last time. The U.S. Attorney...
What are you guys, taking an allnight tour?
We're gay lovers, what's it to you?
Nothin'! Aside from Max's mother driving me crazy, I'm dancin' on a rainbow! Get him on the line, please.
Hang on. Carefully...
Oh. Oh, thank God, hey! Hey, guys, hey, help me out here!
Yo, whassup?
I got my, my hands taped to the steering wheel here, there's this guy, he taped me in the car, he's back there somewhere.
You're kidding me.
I'll fuck you up, you don't hand it over.
<u>My hands are taped to the fucking </u> <u>steering wheel!</u>
...oh God, don't shoot me...
...show me the wallet, man, get your ass up, <u>up</u>...
Hi, Ma.
I've been calling and calling.
I got caught up at work.
You couldn't pick up a phone? I'm lying here, wondering if something horrible happened...
I brought you flowers.
What am I gonna do with flowers?
You're gonna cheer up.
By worrying about you spending money on foolish things? So I can watch them wilt?
He paid for 'em.
You paid for my flowers? They're beautiful. Max, you gonna introduce us?
Mom, Vincent. Vincent, my mother, Ida Rilke.
I'm...in...the...room, here. Don't talk about me like I'm not in the room.
What's he sayin'?
I'm standing right here.
Yesss, you are. He's artistic.
I came to see you, you look fine. We gotta go.
Vincent. It was nice to meet you. Visit again?
Why didn't you tell me we had company? And what's your name?
No harm done, ma'am.
Happy to meet you, Mrs. Rilke.
Oh, call me Ida. To what do we owe the pleasure?
I was with Max when he got the call.
And you came all the way down here to see me?
It's nothing.
Tell my son. You have to hold a gun to his head to get him to come see me.
Tell me about it.
Client? I like to think of myself as more of a friend. A mentor.
Max never had many friends. So much with the piano. Always keeping to himself, it's unhealthy...
I'm sure you're very proud of Max.
Of course I'm proud. You know he started with nothing? Look at him today. Playing concerts.
Quite an achievement...
What's your name?
Vincent...
I'm in town for a short time.
Try?
Of course!
...this snitch of yours, what's his name, Ivan?
Ivan Petrov. Supposed to meet me for dinner, never shows up. I come here, find this.
You guys been holding hands?
Months now. He's been feeding me information on Dmitri.
Dmitri <u>Gusunov?</u> What the fuck, why? Forget about Dimitri, Feds are all over him. They're a heartbeat away from taking him down. Word's gone out, they don't want us anywhere near him...
Oh, we working for the Feds now? If my snitch flew out a window, he's got Dmitri's handprints on his ass. That makes it homicide, that makes it ours.
What homicide? Phil. Where's a body? Look. All we got is glass...
There was a car here, you can see where the glass came down all around it. Ivan flew out the window and went bam.
He could'a been depressed. It still doesn't tell me homicide.
Remember that thing a few years back? That thing with the cab?
What thing?
Cabbie drove around all night. Three people got killed.
Oh, right. The guy flipped out or something? Killed some people, then put a gun to his own head?
They found him dead in his own cab down by the Port Authority.
So? It was a random thing.
I never bought that.
Oh?
Cabbie had no criminal record, no history of mental illness. Suddenly, he just wigs out and pops three people, then himself? Plus the victims weren't random solid citizens. They were all lowlives. Wiseguys. I've always wondered if there was someone else in the cab.
...yeah, I'm still at Bellevue. The John Doe didn't pan out, but you'll never guess who's lying up in the meat locker.
Elvis?
Joey Cicerno. Dear friend and associate of my missing snitch, Ivan Petrov. Both of whom were in bed with Dmitri.
Jesus. Two in one night?
Something big's going down, and I'm betting the Feds don't know about it. You gotta get us in there.
Pick me up in five minutes.
Captain Walt Muldoon, NYPD.
Detective Sergeant Phil Heller.
What if they're wrong?
Not our call, Phil.
...if they're wrong?!
This isn't our goddamn game!
Something going on?
Pretty quiet down there. A cab just pulled up, aside from that...
...goddamn it, you telling me this motherfucker's whacked three of our witnesses tonight...
...Petrov and Cicerno for sure...
Advance team, two men, stick to that goddamn cab, stay in radio contact, the rest of us follow in the van. Nobody moves until the entire team's in place...
Can you fax me his picture? His license or something? What do you mean you don't have that there? Anybody else in the cab?
...got off the phone with his dispatcher. What an asshole. Cabbie's name is Max Rilke, been driving that cab for ten years...
So?
...so, his description of Max the cabdriver matches the guy who walked out of Villa Rodeo. That guy? That guy is a cabbie. And you're telling me this cabbie walks into a phone booth and emerges as a meat eater, assassin with heavy trigger time? What's he do, squeeze 'em in between fares?
No. Your cabbie is floating down a storm drain or stuffed in the trunk of a cab.
Lemme tell you something. Vincent and a few other guys like him are fucking ghosts. Nobody even know what he looked like until now...
I don't know...
What are you gonna do?
Take him down. Save Richard Yip, our witness...
I see. That was an important list, wouldn't you say? The people on that list are being subpoenaed tomorrow by a federal judge. And you "lost" it?
I'm sorry.
Sorry?
Tell me, Vincent. Do you believe in Santa Claus?
Can't say that I do.
Neither do I. But my children, they're still young. Do you know who they like even more than jolly old Saint Nicholas? His helper, Black Peter. An old Russian fairy tale tells of how Santa got so busy looking after all the good kids, he had to hire a helper to punish all the bad kids. That was Black Peter's job. He was given the list of all the bad children, and he would visit them in their homes late at night. And if he caught them not saying their prayers, he would leave a bundle of wooden switches outside their door. That was a warning. If they continued to misbehave, he would swoop down and take the children away. And they would never be seen again.
Tell me Vincent. Tell me what you think.
I think...
What?
I think... ...I think you should get this gun out of my fucking face.
What? What did you say?
I said. Get the gun. Out. Of my fucking <u>face.</u> Before I wrap it in a blintz and feed it to you.
I picked up a tail.
Federal?
You tell me. I had to toss the list in the river. I was protecting your sorry, longwinded ass. So why don't you show a little courtesy?
You think I wanted to come here tonight? You think I'm that stupid? Sometimes shit happens, you gotta roll with it.
Tell me. Has Black Peter already crossed off a few bad children?
The fat man on Cherry Street. The other fat man, Mr. Bulldozer. The trumpet player. That leaves two.
Can you finish on schedule?
In fifteen years, I have never left a customer unsatisfied.
Vincent. Do not cross me.
Wouldn't dream of it.
As a token of my appreciation for your understanding in this matter, I'd like to offer you a discount for my services tonight. Twenty five percent.
Twenty five?
Hell, make it fifty. Same goes for any business we have in the future.
Very generous.
By the way. Daniel said he was sorry.
...I was just a young cat back then, about nineteen, bussin' tables in this very place. Didn't pay but shit, but that wasn't the point. Being around the music, that was the thing. And I was. Take this one night...July 22, 1964...who walks in? Mr. Louis Armstrong.
You're kidding me.
Right through those doors. The man himself.
Jesus...
He'd come over from Queens to do the Ed Sullivan show. After, he decides to come on up to Harlem and hang with the common folk. That's how he was, you see. Never forgot where he came from. Money and fame an' all that? Meant nothin', long as he could blow that horn. So before you it, he's up on that stage, doin' his thing.
Was it great? Better than great, it had to be...
Like Winton Marsalis says, it was pure, spiritual essence. Louis was playing. God was smiling.
You heard Armstrong play live. I've never been this jealous. You get to talk to him?
Did better'n that.
No.
Oh, my, yes.
Get outta here! You and Louis?
Fella owned this place back then, Dix Dwyer, he let slip to Louis that I played. So Pops, he just waves me right up. My heart about stopped. But I got up there all the same, and we played for nearly twenty minutes.
Unbelievable... ...you hearing this? Unbelievable.
Remember what you played?
Most vividly. "St. Louis Blues," "Potato Head Blues," "Sleepy Time Down South..." ...then Pops laid some "Cornet Chop Suey" on me, and left me in the dust like a whipped dog.
The crowd had to dig it.
The crowd was most kind. I was born in 1945, but my life began the night of July 22, 1964. That was the moment of my conception. Right here in this very room.
You know Dmitri?
'Fraid so.
And here I was thinking you were such a nice guy.
I am a nice guy, Daniel. With a job to do. You know how it is.
What kind of question?
Jazz question. What other kind is there? You get it right, we roll with it. You disappear. Tonight. You don't go home, you don't pack a bag, you just leave town...and nobody, I mean nobody, ever hears from you or sees you again.
How do I know you'll keep your word?
I never lie. Ask Max. Max, have I lied yet?
One more thing. If by some chance I get this wrong...tell Dmitri I'm sorry.
Of course.
Lay it on me.
It's simple. What was your pal Louis' first musical instrument?
I know the answer. I know all there is to know about Louis.
Then let's have it.
This your current address?
Yes.
A deer?
Comin' over Coldwater. Goddamn deer jumps out in front of me. You believe that?
You still carrying passengers?
I was heading back to my garage. It's on the way.
This vehicle's not safe to drive. We're gonna have to impound it. Get you towed. Step away from the vehicle and pop the trunk. I'm sorry, sir, you'll have to find another cab.
Come on, it's been a long, shitty day. How about a break? I'll call a tow truck myself, I swear. I won't budge from this spot.
Save me the grief. Step out of the car, sir, and open the trunk.
You dizzy? You want to sit down?
I'm...fine. Fine.
You sure? You look pretty shaky...
Hi ya' doin'? Where to?
Park Avenue and East 2nd. Take Centre to Canal, up the Bowery, Cooper and Third, left on 41st, come around on Park.
I'll take Sixth. It's faster.
What?
Sixth is faster.
Sixth is a parking lot north of 23rd this time of day.
The Bowery, you gotta deal with runoff from two bridges.
Sixth, you got delivery trucks blocking traffic at Herald Square. Look, I make this trip all the time.
First Friday of the month? Linens. Roll right off the trucks. They're in and out in twenty minutes... ...which means they left fifteen minutes ago. Traffic will be smooth.
But Bowery's fine, if that's what you want.
We taking bets? What if you're wrong?
The ride is free.
You got a deal.
Go ahead, say it.
No. I got lucky with the lights.
No. You were right, I was wrong... ...Max.
You like Bach?
I used to play this piece back in high school.
Let me guess. Clarinet?
Violin. I never had the lungs for wind instruments.
Could'a fooled me, the way you were hollering into that cell phone.
Different instrument altogether. You know, if you'd only listened to me, we'd be bogged down in traffic right now, and you could have made yourself an extra five bucks.
Keep it. Go wild. Have a party.
Why'd you do that? Don't tell me you're a gentleman, Max. I thought chivalry was dead as a necessary consequence of gender politics...
It's no big deal.
No? How many cabbies get you into an argument to save you money?
There were two of us. I had the other guy killed. Don't need the competition...
You're an anomaly in today's world, Max. You're good at what you do, so you must take pride in it...?
This? Temporary. To pay the bills and save. I got plans...
Like what?
Travel...and things.
You like being a lawyer?
You psychic?
Sure. I'm starting an 800 hotline. Caught part of your phone call. And even if I hadn't, there's the dark pinstripe, Armani, elegant, not too hip, which rules out advertising, plus a topoftheline briefcase that you live out of, looks like Bottega...
Bottega.
...Bottega. Guy gets in my cab wearing a catcher's mask, I think he's a ballplayer. You? Definitely Clarence Darrow.
Not quite. He did defense. I'm a prosecutor...
Big case?
Yeah.
You never answered my question. You like what you do?
Most of the time.
But not now?
Like you, I'm good at it. But at this exact moment in time...like I gotta sumo wrestler on my shoulders until tomorrow morning.
You need a vacation.
Just had one.
Not in a cab... I mean a disconnection...get your head straight...you know, get it together...
When was the last time you took one?
Soon. But I take little ones all the time. Comoros Islands in the Indian Ocean.
How often you go?
Dozen times a day.
No, no way, I couldn't take that...
Yes, you could. I think you need it more than I do. It'll help. I promise.
Thanks for everything, Max. Wow...
Sure thing.
Annie...it's Max.
Max...
Max, the cab driver!
Max? Oh... ...it's kind of a strange time to be calling...
Listen to me! Just listen, okay? There's a man, Vincent, he's coming to kill you!
He's...what? Say again? We're in cell hell...
<u>Kill</u> you! He's coming to kill you!
If this is a joke, it's not funny.
Dmitri hired him! He's already killed all your witnesses, now he's coming after you! He was stalking you when I dropped you off. I don't know what happened, but he diverted and got into my cab, instead.
Did you say <u>Dmitri?</u> How do you know about my case? I don't understand...
It doesn't matter! Just get out of the goddamn building...
...okay, Max, I believe you...I'll get out of the building...
No, no, <u>wait</u>...
...he's two floors below you.
In my office?
Where are you, what floor?
Seventh, files section. What should I do?
He doesn't know you're up there! Just stay right where you are! Call the police!
Max, I'm scared. Are you sure?
Yes! Stay put, goddamn it! Don't move from that spot...
How many to a cell?
Four in this block, sir.
Cram criminals together and what do you get  concentrated criminality... crime in the midst of punishment.
I agree, sir. What we need are larger prisons. More money.
Not a chance, my dear fellow. The Ggovernment can't be concerned any longer with outmoded penological theories. Soon we may be needing all of out prison space for political offenders. Common criminals like these are best dealt with on a purely curative basis. Kill the criminal reflex that's all. Full implementation in a year's time. Punishment means nothing to them, you can see that... they enjoy their socalled punishment. Alex seizes his chance as they pass by.
Well, fine... we could still look at CBlock.
No, no, no. That's enough. He's perfect. I want his records sent to me. This vicious young hoodlum will be transformed out of all recognition.
Shall we go to my office?
Thank you.
Yes, I heard. D'you know what time he got in last night?
No I don't know, luv, I'd taken my sleepers.
I wonder where exactly is it he goes to work of evenings.
Well, like he says, it's mostly odd things he does, helping like... here and there, as it might be.
Well, it's a surprise all right, a bit bewildering too.
We've only just read about it in the morning papers.
Aye. You should have let us know, lad, not that we're not very pleased to see you again. All cured too, eh?
Well, what's the matter lad, are you feeling alright?
Dad... It's the treatment. More retching.
D'you think we should do something?
Would you like me to make you a nice cup of tea, son?
Hullo, son, how are you?
Are you feeling better?
Pitiful rookerful...
And there's Will the English in the Muscleman coffee mesto saying he can fence anything that anything that any malchick tries to crast.
Yeah... Pete the English.
The shiny stuff. The Ice. The big, big, big money is available's what Will the English says.
Big, big money.
Molokoplus.
Something to sharpen us up, you especially. We have the start.
Enough is remembered though, little Alex. Dim and Georgie laugh. They drag Alex to a low water through.
This is to make sure you stay cured. Georgie hits Alex in the stomach with his blackjack. Then, they push his head under the water and methodically start to beat him with their blackjacks. After a full minute of this, they drag him out, haltdrowned,
Very good, Chief. They inspect cells.
Leave to carry on, sir, please?
Carry on, Chief.
Sir.
Sir, 655321, sir.
Very good, Chief. Chief Guard turns to Alex.
Forward to the white line, toes behind it. Full name and number to the Governor. Chief Guard closes door.
Shut your filthy hole, you scum!!!
You are to be reformed. Tomorrow you go to this man, Brodsky. You wbe leaving here. You will be transferred to the Ludovico Medical Facility. It is believed that you will be able to leave State custody in a little over a fortnight. I suppose that prospect pleases you?
Answer when the Governor asks you a question you filthy young swine!
Don't read it  sign it!
It says that you are willing to have the residue of your sentence commuted to the Ludovico treatment. Alex signs. Governor gathers up papers. Alex dots the last "i" and smiles.
One jacket  blue pinstripe.
Prison custody?
One shirt  blue, collar attached.
Have you been receiving medical treatment for any serious illness?
One pair of trousers  blue pinstriped.
Have you ever had any attacks of fainting or dizziness?
One pair of underpants  white with blue waistband.
Are you now, or ever have been, a homosexual?
Mothballs, sir.
Now then. Face the wall. Bend over and touch your toes. Chief Guard inspects Alex's anus with a penlight.
If thou lose hope being weary in the days of distress, thy strength shall be diminished.
Fine, my boy, fine, fine.
Father, I have tried, have I not?
You have, my son.
I've done my best, have I not?
Indeed.
And, Father, I've never been guilty of any institutional infractions, have I?
You certainly have not, 655321. You've been very helpful, and you've shown a genuine desire to reform.
Father  may I ask you a question in private?
Certainly, my son, certainly. Is there something troubling you, my son? Don't be shy to speak up. Remember, I know all the urges that can trouble young men deprived of the society of women.
No Father. It's nothing like that, Father. It's about this new thing they're all talking about. About this new treatment that you out of prison in no time at all and makes sure you never get back in again.
Where did you hear about this? Whose been talking about these things?
These things get around, Father. Two Warders talk as it might be, and somebody can't help overhearing what they say. Then somebody picks up a scrap of newspaper in the workshops and the newspaper tells all about it. How about putting me in for this new treatment, Father?
I take it you are referring to the Ludovico Technique?
I don't know what it's called, Father, all I know is that it gets you out quickly and makes sure that you never get in again.
That's not proven, 655321. In fact, it is only in the experimental stage at this moment.
But it is being used, isn't it, Father?
It has not been used yet in this prison. The Governor has grave doubts about it and I have heard that there are very serious dangers involved.
I don't care about the danger, Father. I just want to be good. I want for the rest of my life to be one act of goodness.
The question is weather or not this technique really makes a man good. Goodness comes from within. Goodness is chosen. When a man cannot chose, he ceases to be a man.
I don't understand about the whys and wherefores, Father. I only know I want to be good.
Be patient, my son, and put your trust in the Lord.
Instruct thy son and he shall refresh thee and shall give delight to thy soul.
Amen. They cross themselves.
One thing I could never stand is to see a filthy, dirty old drunkie, howling away at the filthy songs of his fathers and going blerp, blerp in between as it might be a filthy old orchestra in his stinking rotten guts. I could never stand to see anyone like that, whatever his age might be, but more especially when he was real old like this one was. The boys stop and applaud him.
Can you... can you spare some cutter, me brothers? Alex rams his stick into the Tramp's stomach. The boys laugh.
Ohhhh!!! Go on, do me in you bastard cowards. I don't want to live anyway, not in a stinking world like this.
Oh  and what's so stinking about it?
It's a stinking world because there's no law and order any more. It's a stinking world because it lets the young get onto the old like you done. It's no world for an old man any more. What sort of a world is it at all? Men on the moon and men spinning around the earth and there's not no attention paid to earthly law and order no more. The Tramp starts singing again.
Can you spare me some cutter, me brother? Can you spare some cutter, me brother? Alex, without looking at him, reaches in his pocket and gives him some money.
Oh, thankyou, your honour. The Tramp takes a second look at Alex.
Jamey Mack! Be the hokey fly! Holy Mother of God! All the Holy Angels and blessed saints in Heaven preserve us. Alex breaks away but the Tramp toddles alongside him.
I never forget a face! I never forget any face, be God!
Leave me alone, brother. I've never seen you before. Tramp shouts to other Meths drinkers and Tramps.
This is the poisonous young swine that near done me in. Him and his friends beat me and kicked me and thumped me. Alex breaks away again.
Stop him! Stop him! A leg is stuck out and Alex goes down. The tramp swarm all over him.
They laughed at me blood and me moans. This murderous young pig is a prize specimen of the cowardly brutal young. He is in our midst and at our mercy. Give it to him. That's it. Old Tramps begin to beat at Alex.
Then there was like a sea of dirty, smelly old men trying to get at your humble Narrator, with their feeble rookers and horny old claws. It was Old Age having a go at Youth and I daren't do a single solitary thing, O my brothers, it being better to be hit at like that, than want to be sick and feel that horrible pain. The Tramp crowd round Alex, shouting.
Very soon now the drug will cause the subject to experience a death like paralysis together with deep feelings of terror and helplessness. One of our earlier test subjects described it as being like death, a sense of stifling and drowning, and it is during this period we have found the subject will make his most rewarding associations between his catastrophic experience and environment and the violence he sees. Alex retching violently and struggling against his strait jacket.
Let me be sick... I want to get up. Get me something to be sick in... Stop the film... Please stop it... I can't stand it any more. Stop it please... please.
What's all this about sin?
That!... Using Ludwig van like that! He did no harm to anyone. Beethoven just wrote music.
You're keen on music?
Yes!!!
You needn't take it any further, sir. You've proved to me that all this ultraviolence and killing is wrong and terribly wrong. I've learned my lesson, sir. I see now what I've never seen before I'm cured, praise Bog!
You're not cured yet, my boy.
You must take your chance boy. The choice has been all yours.
But, Sir... Missus... I see that it's wrong! It's wrong because it's like against like society. It's wrong because everybody has the right to live and be happy without being tolchocked and knifed.
No, no, boy. You really must leave it to us, but be cheerful about it. In less than a fortnight now, you'll be a free man.
How are you feeling today?
Fine. Fine.
Good. I'm doctor Taylor.
I haven't seen you before.
I'm your Psychiatrist.
Psychiatrist? Huh, do I need one?
Just part of hospital routine.
What are we going to do? Talk about me sex life?
No... I'm going to show you some slides and you are going to tell me what you think about them Alright?
Ohhh... jolly good. Perhaps you can explain me something to me first.
Yes?
Well, when I was all like ashamed up and half awake and unconscious like, I kept having this dream like all these doctors were playing around with me gulliver. You know... like the inside of me brain. I seemed to have this dream over and over again. D'you think it means anything?
Patients who've sustained the kind of injuries you have often have dreams of this sort. It's all part of the recovery process.
Oh.
Now then, each of these slides needs a reply from one of the people in the picture. You'll tell me what you think the person would say. Alright?
Righty, right. The doctor reads aloud the dialogue printed in the cartoon balloon  a peacock.
Isn't the plumage beautiful?
I just say what the other person would say?
Yes. Yes, well don't think about it too long, just say the first thing that pops into your mind.
Right... Knickers... Cabbages... It doesn't have a beak. Alex laughs. Slide of woman speaking to boy.
Good. The boy you always quarrelled with is seriously ill.
That's right and I'll smash your face for you, yarblockos. Slide of watch shop.
Good. It wa your fault... you sold me a crummy watch. I want my money back.
Bollocks. You know what you can do with that watch? You can stick it up your arse. Slide of nude woman in bed, a man at the window.
Good. What do you want?
Excuse me, missus. No time for the old inout, I've just come to read the meter. Slide of bird's nest with eggs.
Good. You can do whatever you like with these.
Eggiwegs. I would like to smash 'em. Pick up th elot and f... owww... He slams his hand down and cries out with pain.
Fucking hell...
Fine. Well, that's all there is to it. Are you alright?
I hope so. Is that the end then?
Yes.
I was quite enjoying that.
Good. I'm glad
How many did I get right?
It's not that kind of a test. But you seem well on the way to a complete recovery.
And when do I get out of here then?
I'm sure it won't be long now.
Good morning, Alex, my name is Dr. Branom. I'm Doctor Brodsky's assistant.
Good Morning, Missus. Lovely day, isn't it?
Indeed it is. May I take this She removes his tray.
How're you feeling this morning?
Fine... fine.
Good. In a few minutes, you'll meeting Dr. Brodsky and we'll begin your treatment. You're a very lucky boy to have been chosen.
I realise all that, Missus, and I'm very grateful to all concerned.
We're going to friends now, sir.
I hope so, Missus. She inserts a needle into the medicine vial.
What's the hypo for then? Going to send me to sleep?
Oh no, nothing of the sort.
Vitamins will it be then?
Something like that. You are a little undernourished, so after each meal were going to give you a shot. Roll over on your right side please, loosen your pyjama pants and pull them halfway down. He does, somewhat reluctantly. She gives him a shot in the bum.
What exactly is the treatment here going to be then?
It's quite simple really. Were just going to show you some films.
You mean like going to the pictures?
Something like that.
Well, that's good. I like to viddy the old films now and again.
Well, that was a very promising start. By my calculations, you should be starting to feel alright again. Yes? Dr. Brodsky's pleased with you. Now tomorrow there'll be two sessions, of course, morning and afternoon.
You mean, I have to viddy two sessions in one day?
I imagine you'll be feeling a little bit limp by the end of the day. But we have to be hard on you. You have to be cured.
But it was horrible.
Well, of course, it was horrible. Violence is a very horrible thing. That's what you're learning now. Your body is learning it.
I just don't understand about feeling sick the way I did. I never used to feel sick before. I used to feel like the very opposite. I mean, doing it or watching it, I used to feel real horrorshow. I just don't understand why, how what.
You felt ill this afternoon because you're getting better. You see, when we're healthy we respond to the presence of the hateful with fear and nausea. You're becoming healthy that's all. By this time tomorrow you'll be healthier still.
Are you referring to the background score?
Yes!!!
You've heard Beethoven before?
Yes!!!
You are now in H.M. Prison Parkmoor and from this moment you will address all prison officers as sir! Name?
Alexander de Large, sir.
Crime?
Murder, sir.
Right. Take the cuffs off him, Mister. The cuffs are removed.
Yes, sir.
Then your toes belong on the other side of it!!!
Yes sir.
Right carry on. Alex tosses a bar of chocolate on the desk.
Pick that up and put it down properly. Alex does so, and continues to empty his pockets.
One half bar of chocolate. One bunch of keys on white metal ring. One packet of cigarettes. Two plastic ball pens  one black, one red. One pocket comb  black plastic. One address book  imitation red leather. One ten penny piece. One white metal wristlet watch, "Timawrist" on a white metal expanding bracelet. Anything else in your pockets?
No, sir.
Right. Sign here for your valuable property. Alex signs.
The chocolate and cigarettes you brought in  you lose that as you are now convicted. Now go over to the table and get undressed. Alex walks to table and undresses. Chief Guard moves to table with his clipboard.
Now then, were you in Police custody this morning?
No, sir.
Religion?
C of E, sir.
Do you mean Church of England?
Yes, sir, Church of England, sir.
Brown hair, is it?
Fair hair, sir.
Blue eyes?
Blue eyes, yes, sir.
Do you wear eye glasses or contact lenses?
No, sir.
Have you ever had any mental illness?
No, sir.
Do you wear any false teeth or false limbs?
No, sir.
Are you an Epileptic?
No, sir.
No, sir.
Right. The mothballs, Mister.
No, sir.
Crabs?
No, sir.
Lice?
No, sir.
Through there for a bath.
Yes, sir.
You're absolutely right, sir.
Shut your bleedin' hole!!!
The next morning I was taken to the Ludovico Medical Facility, outside the town centre, and I felt a malenky bit sad having to say goodbye to the old Staja, as you always will when you leave a place you've like gotten used to. Chief Guard briskly leads the way for Alex and escort. They move into reception hall where the Doctor stands.
Right. Halt the prisoner. Good morning, sir, I'm Chief Officer Barnes. I've got 655321 on a transfer from Parkmoor to the Ludovico Centre, sir!
Hello, heap of dirt. Pooh, you don't wash much do you, judging by the horrible smell.
Why do you say that, brother? I had a shower this morning.
Oh, he had a shower this morning. You trying to call me a liar?
No, brother. What d'you want?
What do I want?
Sorry, brother. I didn't mean any offence.
Oh. Oh, you're sorry are you, well you must think I'm awfully stupid. He slaps Alex in the face.
Why did you do that, brother? I've never done wrong to you.
You want to know why I did that, well you see  I do that... He stamps on Alex's foot.
... and this... He pulls Alex's nose.
... and that... He pulls Alex's ear, pushes him off balance and plants his foot on his chest.
... because I don't like you horrible type, do I, and if you want to start something... if you want to start... go on... well, you just start. Please do. Alex retching.
I'm gonna be sick.
You're gonna be sick are you?
I wanna be sick.
You wanna be sick?
Let me get up.
You wanna get up? Well, you've gotta you see... well I want you to lick it. Go on... Lick it. Alex, gagging and coughing, licks the sole of his shoe.
... And again... Go on!!! Again! There's a good boy.
And, O my brothers, would you believe your faithful friend and long suffering narrator pushed out his red yahzik a mile and a half to lick the grahzny, vonny boots. The horrible killing sickness had wooshed up and turned the like joy of battle into a feeling I was going to snuff it. Minister rises.
Hullo lad. What a surprise, good to see you.
Keeping fit then?
Fine, fine.
Well, how are you then?
Oh fine, fi. Keeping out of trouble, you know.
Well  I'm back.
Aye. Glad to see you back, lad.
That's right, Dad they did a great job on my gulliver, I'm completely reformed.
Aye.
Well, still the same old place then, eh?
Oh, aye, aye.
Hey, Dad, there's a strange fella sitting on the sofa there munchy wunching lomticks of toast.
Aye, that's Joe. He... ummmm, lives here now. The lodger. That's what he is... he... he rents your room. Alex confronts Joe.
How do you do, Joe? Find the room comfortable, do you? No complaints?
No thanks, Mum. It'll pass in a minute... ... What have you done with all my own personal things?
Well. That was all took away, son, by the Police. New regulation about compensation for the victim.
What about Basil? Where's my snake?
Oh well, he met with like an accident. He passed away. Alex becomes a bit weepy.
What's gonna happen to me then? I mean that's my room he's in  there's no denying that. This is my home also. What suggestions have you, my Pee and Em, to make?
Well, all this needs thinking about, son. I mean we can't very well just kick Joe out... Not just like that, can we? I mean Joe is here doing a job. A contract it is, two years. Well, we made like an arrangement, didn't we Joe? You see, son, Joe's paid next month's rent already so, well, whatever we do in the future, we cant just say to Joe to get out, now can we?
What gives, O my Pee and Em, what makes you think you are welcome? Em sobs. Pee comforts her.
There, there mother, it's alright. He doesn't mean it. You were in the papers again, son. It said they had done great wrong to you. It said how the Government drove you to try and do yourself in... and when you think about it, son... maybe it was our fault too in a way... your home's your home when it's all said and done, son. Em sobs.
Who said that?
I did, sir.
What crime did you commit.
The accidental killing of a person, sir.
Thank you very much for this chance, sir.
Let's hope you make the most of it, my boy.
She came towards me with the light like it was the like light of heavenly grace, and the first thing that flashed into my gulliver was that I would like to have her right down there on the floor with the old inout, real savage. But quick as a shot came the sickness, like a detective that had been watching around the corner and now followed to make his arrest. Alex retching. Minister rises.
Thank you very much. Thank you my dear. Girl bows and exits to loud applause.
Not feeling too bad now are you?
No, sir, I feel really great.
Good.
Was I alright, sir? Did I do well, sir?
Fine. Absolutely fine. You see, Ladies and Gentlemen our subject is, you see, impelled towards good by paradoxically being impelled toward evil. The intention to act violently is accompanied by strong feelings of physical distress. To counter these, the subject has to switch to a diametrically opposed attitude. Any questions? Priest rises and moves to Alex.
Good evening, my boy.
Hi, hi, hi there, my little droogies.
Yes, sir, and a very lovely place it is too, sir, when I wake up in the middle of the night with my pain.
Yes... well good to see you on the mend. I've kept in constant touch with the hospital, of course, and now I've come to see you personally to see how you're getting along.
I've suffered the tortures of the damned. The tortures of the damned, sir.
Yes I can... Oh look, let me do that for you, shall I?
Thank you, sir.
I can tell you that I... and the Government of which I am a member are deeply sorry about this, my boy. Deeply sorry. We tried to help you. We followed recommendations had been made to us that turned out to be wrong. An enquiry will place the responsibility where it belongs. We want you to regard us as friends. We've put you right, you're the best of treatments. We never wished you harm, but there are some that did and do, and I think you know who those are. There are certain people who wanted to use you for political ends. People who would have been glad to have you dead because then they would have been able to blame it all on the Government. I think you know who those are. There is also a certain man  a writer of subversive literature  who has been howling for your blood. He's been mad with desire to stick a knife into you, but you're safe from him now, we've put him away. He found out that you had done wrong to him  at least he believed you had done wrong. He had formed this idea in his head that you h
Where is he now, sir?
We put him away where he can do you no harm. You see we are looking after your interests. We are interested in you, and when you leave here you will have no further worries. We shall see to everything... a good job on a good salary.
What job and how much?
You must have an interesting job at a salary which you would regard as adequate. Not only for the job which you are going to do and in compensation for what you believe you have suffered, but also because you are helping us.
Helping you, sir?
We always help our friends, don't we? It is no secret that the Government has lost a lot of popularity because of you, my boy. There are some that think that at the next election we shall be out. The press has chosen to take a very unfavourable view of what we tried to do.
Well, who can blame them, sir?
Mmmm, possibly. Yes. But public opinion has a way of changing and you, Alex, if I may call you, Alex?
Certainly, sir. What do they call you at home?
My name is Frederick. As I was saying, Alex, you can be instrumental in changing the public verdict. Do you understand, Alex? Have I made myself clear?
As an unmuddied lake, Fred. As clear as an azure sky of deepest summer. You can rely on me, Fred.
Good... good boy. Oh yes, I understand you're fond of music. I have arranged a little surprise for you.
Surprise?
One I think you will like... as a, how shall I put it, as a symbol of our new understanding. An understanding between two friends.
Thank you, Fred. Thank you. Minister turns and signals. Door opens and a crowd of cameramen and reporters rush in. Aides push two 6foot loudspeakers and a HiFi on a trolley.
We got worried. There we were waiting and drinking away at the old knify Moloko and you had not turned up and we thought you might have been like offended by something or other, so around we come to your abode.
Appy polly loggies. I had something of a pain in the gulliver so had to sleep. I was not awakened when I gave orders for awakening.
All right, no more picking on Dim, brother. That's part of the new way.
New way? What's this about a new way? There's been some very large talk behind my sleeping back, and no error. Let me hear more.
Well, we go round shop crasting and the like, coming out with a pitiful rookerful of money each.
And what will you do with the big, big, money? Have you not everything you need? If you need a motorcar, you pluck it from the trees. If you need pretty polly, you take it.
Brother, you think and talk sometimes like a little child. Tonight we pull a mansize crast.
Good. Real horrorshow. Initiative comes to them as waits. I've taught you much, my little droogies. Now tell me what you have in mind, Georgie Boy.
Oh, the old molokoplus first, would you not say
Not tonight  not this nochy.
Come, come, come, Georgie Boy. You're a big strong chelloveck like us all. We're not little children, are we, Georgie Boy? What, then, didst thou in thy mind have? Confrontation. Georgie backs down.
It's this Health Farm. A bit out of the town. Isolated. It's owned by this like very rich ptitsa who lives there with her cats. The place is shut down for a week and she's completely on her own, and it's full up with like gold and silver and like jewels.
Tell me more, Georgie Boy.
The newspapers mentioned that in addition to your being conditioned against acts of sex and violence, you've inadvertently been conditioned against music.
Well, er, I think that was something that they hadn't planned for, you see, Missus, I'm very fond of music and always have been, especially Beethoven, Ludwig van... Beethoven. B... E... E... He leans over and looks at her writing in notebook.
It's alright, thank you.
And it just so happened that while they were showing me a particularly bad film, of like a concentration camp, the background music was playing Beethoven.
So now you have the same reaction to music as you do to sex and violence?
Oh well, it's... it's not all music you see, Missus. It's just the 9th.
You mean Beethoven's 9th Symphony?
That's right. Er... I can't listen to the 9th any more at all. When I hear the 9th, I get like this funny feeling.
When you say this funny feeling, you mean the state of mind brought on by the treatment they gave you?
That is correct, sir. And then all I can think about is like trying to snuff it.
I beg your pardon?
Snuff it, sir... um... death, I mean, missus... Er... I just want to die peacefully like with no... pain.
Do you feel that way now?
Um... oh no, sir, not exactly, I still feel very miserable, very much down in spirits.
Do you still feel suicidal?
Um... well, put it this way... I feel very low in myself. I can't see much in the future, and I feel that any second something terrible is going to happen to me. He pitches forward, face into the plate of spaghetti.
Well done, Frank. Julian, get the car, will you please?
Ah, Alex boy, awake at last, yes? I met your mother on the way to work, yes? She gave me the key. She said something about a pain somewhere... hence not at school , yes?
A rather intolerable pain in the head, brother, sir. I think it should be clear by this afterlunch.
Oh, or certainly by this evening, yes? The evening's a great time, isn't it, Alex boy?
A cup of the old chai, sir?
No time, no time, yes. Sit, sit, sit. Alex sits next to him.
To what do I owe this extreme pleasure, sir? Anything wrong, sir? Deltoid "playfully" grabs Alex's hair.
Wrong? Why should you think of anything being wrong, have you been doing something you shouldn't. Yes? He shakes Alex's hair.
Just a manner of speech, sir.
Well, yes, it's just a manner of speech from your Post Corrective Advisor to you that you watch out, little Alex. He puts his arm round Alex's shoulder.
Because next time it's going to be the barry place and all my work ruined. If you've no respect for your horrible self, you at least might have some for me who'se sweated over you. He slaps Alex on the knee.
A big black mark I tell you for every one we don't reclaim. A confession of failure for every one of you who ends up in the stripy hole.
I've been doing nothing I shouldn't, sir. The millicents have nothing on me, brother, sir, I mean. Deltoid pulls Alex down on the bed.
Cut out all this clever talk about milicents. Just because the Police haven't picked you up lately doesn't, as you very well know, mean that you've not been up to some nastiness. There was a bit of a nastiness last night, yes. Some very extreme nastiness, yes. A few of a certain Billyboy's friends were ambluenced off late last night, yes. Your name was mentioned, the word's got thru to me by the usual channels. Certain friends of yours were named also. Oh, nobody can prove anything about anybody as usual, but I'm warning you, little Alex, being a good friend to you as always, the one man in this sore and sick community who wants to save you from yourself. Deltoid makes a grab for Alex's joint but finds his hand instead. Alex laughs. Derisively and rises. Deltoid distractedly reaches for a glass of water on the night table, and fails to notice a set of false teeth soaking in them. He drinks from the glass. The clink of the teeth sounding like icecubes.
What gets into you all? We study the problem. We've been studying it for damn well near a century, yes, but we get no further with our studies. You've got a good home here, good loving parents, you've got not too bad of a brain. Is it some devil that crawls inside of you?
Nobody's got anything on me, brother, sir. I've been out of the rookers of the milicents for a long time now.
That's just worries me. A bit too long to long to be reasonable. You're about due now by my reckoning, that's why I'm warning you, little Alex, to keep your handsome young proboscis out of the dirt. Do I make myself clear?
As an unmuddied lake, sir. Clear as an azure sky of deepest summer. You can rely on me, sir. Deltoid drinks again but this time sees the teeth in the glass. He groans and retches.
You are now a murderer, little Alex. A murderer, yes.
Not true, sir. It was only a slight tolchock. She was breathing, I swear it.
I've just come back from the hospital. Your victim has died.
You try to frighten me, sir, admit so, sir. This is some new form of torture. Say it, brother, sir.
It will be your own torture. I hope to God it will torture you to madness.
It's past eight, Alex, you don't want to be late for school, son.
Bit of pain in the gulliver, Mum. Leave us be and I'll try to sleep it off... then I'll be as right as dodgers for this after.
You've not been to school all week, son.
I've got to rest, Mum... got to get fit, otherwise I'm liable to miss a lot more school.
Eeee... I'll put your breakfast in the oven. I've got to be off myself now.
Alright, Mum... have a nice day at the factory.
Hi. Hi. Hi, there my Pee and Em. All three look up startled.
Alex.
Hullo love, how are you? Nice to see you, Dad.
Why didn't you let us know what was happening, son?
Sorry, Em, I wanted it to be like... a big surprise for you and pee.
So this is the young man?
How do you do, sir?
Hullo.
Missus. Very pleased to meet you.
Very kind of you, sir. Thank you very much.
I understand that you had a rather unfortunate encounter with the Police tonight.
Yes, sir. I suppose you might call it that, sir.
Hahaha, and how are you feeling now?
Much better, thank you, sir.
Feel like talking to us. Answering a few questions?
Fine, sir, fine.
Well, as I've said, we've heard about you. We are interested in your case. We want to help you.
Thank you very much, sir.
But first we'd like to find out a few things about you.
What would you like to know, sir?
Well, shall we get down to it?
Yes, sir. Rubinstein takes out a notebook.
Excuse me, missus, can you please help? There's been a terrible accident. Can I please use your telephone for an ambulance?
I'm frightfully sorry. There is a telephone in the Public House about a mile down the road. I suggest you use that.
But, missus, this is an emergency. It's a matter of life and death. Me friend's lying in the middle of the road bleeding to death.
I... I'm very sorry, but I never open. I'm very sorry but I never open the door to strangers after dark.
Very well, madam. I suppose you can't be blamed for being suspicious with so many scoundrels and rouges of the night about. Alex walks away from door, then ducks into the bushes where the others are hiding. They put on their maskies and follow Alex round to the rear of the house.
Hi, hi, hi there, at last we meet.
What the bloody hell d'you think you're doing?
Our brief govereet thru the letter hole was not, shall we say, satisfactory, yes?
Now listen here, you little bastard, just you turn around and walk out of here the same way as you came in. Alex eyes a giant white, fibreglass phallic sculpture on the table beside him.
Naughty, naughty, naughty, you filthy old soomaka.
No! No! Don't touch it. That's a very important work of art. What the bloody hell do you want?
You see, madam, I am part of an international student's contest to see who can get the most points for selling magazines.
Cut the shit, sonny, and get out of here before you get yourself in some very serious trouble. He rocks the giant phallus which has a special weight swinging inside causing it to swing up and down an eccentric motion.
Dear, dear, dear. Whatever happened to you, my boy? Mr. Alexander, now confined to a wheelchair, pushes himself away from his desk, and rolls up to Julian. The water drips off Alex's clothes. They look at each other.
The police... The horrible ghastly Police. They beat me up, sir. The Police beat me up, sir. Mr. Alexander stares at him. It becomes apparent he is insane.
I know who you are! Isn't it your picture in the newspapers? Didn't I see you this morning on the video? Are you not the poor victim of this horrible new technique?
Yes, sir, that's exactly who I am, sir... and what I am... a victim, sir. Mr. Alexander becomes frenzied as the speech progresses.
Then, by God, you have been sent here by providence. Tortured in prison, then thrown out to be tortured by the Police. My heart goes out to you, poor, poor boy. Oh, you are not the first to come here in distress. The Police are fond of bringing their victims to the outskirts of this village. But it is providential that you, who are also another kind of victim, should come here. But you're cold and shivering. Julian, draw a bath for this young man.
Good evening, sir.
Good evening.
It was very kind of you to leave this out for me, sir. There was noone around when I finished my bath, so I started. I hope that's alright, sir.
Of course. Food alright?
Great, sir. Great.
Try the wine!
Thank you very much, sir. Cheers Suddenly the thought occurs to Alex that the wine may be drugged or poisoned.
Won't you join me, sir?
No, my health doesn't allow it.
And you, sir?
I'm so pleased you appreciate good wine. Have another glass!
Thank you, sir.
My wife... Alex freezes.
... used to do everything for me and leave me to my writing.
Your wife, sir? Has she gone away?
No. She's dead!
I'm sorry to hear about that, sir. His face contorted in rage.
She was very badly raped, you see. We were assaulted by a gang of vicious young hooligans in this house, in this very room you're sitting in now. I was left a helpless cripple. The doctors said it was Pneumonia, because it happened some months later during the 'flu epidemic. The doctors told me it was Pneumonia, but I knew what it was. A victim of the modern age, poor, poor girl. Suddenly his mood changes. He wheels right up to Alex.
And now you, another victim of the modern age. But you can be helped. I phoned some friends while you were having a bath.
Phoned some friends, sir?
Yes. They want to help.
Help me, sir?
Help you.
Who are they, sir?
They're very, very important people and they're interested in you. Bell rings. Julian rises,
Julian. This will be these people now. Alex gets up.
Look, sir. I'm sorry to have troubled you. I think I ought to be going, sir. Julian bars the way.
No, no my boy. No trouble at all. Alex slowly sits.
Hello Lucy, had a busy night? Puts money in machine.
We've been working hard too. Takes glass.
Pardon me. Luce. He raises glass to breast, pulls red handle between her legs. Milk spurts into glass. Dim joins the others. Alex looks at a party of tourists.
There was some sophistos from the TV studios around the corner, laughing an govoreeting. The Devotchka was smecking away, and not caring about the wicked world one bit. Then the disc on the stereo twanged off and out, and in the short silence before the next one came on, she suddenly came with a burst of singing, and it was like for a moment, O my brothers, some great bird had flown into the milkbar and I felt all the malenky little hairs on my plott standing endwise, athe shivers crawling up like slow malenky lizards and then down again. Because I knew what she sang. It was a bit from the glorious 9th, by Ludwig van. Dim makes a liptrump followed by a dog howl, followed by two fingers pronging twice in the air, followed by a clowny guffaw. Alex brings his stick down smartly on Dim's legs.
What did you do that for?
For being a bastard with no manners and not a dook of an idea how to comport yourself publicwise, O my Brother.
I don't like you should do what you done. And I'm not your brother no more and wouldn't want to be.
Watch that... Do watch that, O Dim, if to continue to be on live thou dost wish.
Yarbles, great bolshy yarblockos to you I'll meet you with chain, or nozh or britva, any time, not having you aiming tolchocks at me reasonless. It stands to reason, I won't have it.
A nozh scrap any time you say. Dim weakens.
Doobidoob... a bit tired maybe, everybody is. A long night for growing malchicks... best not to say more. Bedways is rigthways now, so best we go homeways and get a bit of spatchka. Right, right.
He are here! He have arrived! Hooray!
Welly, welly, welly, welly, welly, welly, well. To what do I owe the extreme pleasure of this surprising visit? Georgie rises.
Sorry about the pain. Using the gulliver to much like, eh? Giving orders and disciplining and that perhaps, eh? You sure the pain's gone? You sure you'll not be happier back up in bed.
Lets get things nice and sparkling clear. This sarcasm, if I may call it such, does not become you, O my brothers. As I am your droog and leader, I am entitled to know what goes on, eh? Now then, Dim, what does that great big horsy gape of a grin portend?
One minoota, droogie. Dim smashes Alex in the face with a full milk bottle. He goes down. The others run away, laughing.
You bastards... bastards.
Well, well, well, well, well, well, well, if it isn't little Alex. Long time no viddy, droog. How goes? Surprised are you?
Impossible... I don't believe it.
Come on, Alex. Come for walkies. Hahahahaha.
Come, come, my little droogies. I just don't get this at all. The old days are dead and gone. For what I did in the past I've been punished.
Been punished, yeah?
I've been cured.
Been cured, yeah, that was read out to us. The Inspector read all that out to us. He said it was a very good way.
I just don't get this all. It was them that went for me, brothers. You're not on their side and can't be. You can't be Dim. It was someone we fillied with back in the old days... Trying to get his own malenky bit of revenge after all this time. You remember, Dim?
Long time, is right. I don't remember them days too horrorshow. Don't call me Dim no more, either. Officer, call me.
Rich...
Good morning, Walt.
I'd like to have a word with you. This is Agent Matheson, FBI.
Richard Travers.
Matheson has been transferred from the Denver office to Frisco. As a professional courtesy between offices, I was asked if he could hitch a ride.
We've got a full crew, but we can squeeze one more, right.
Appreciate it.
You're the boss. Let's head out to the tarmac. Matheson, have you been totally briefed?
Mostly. Armored cars can be hijacked. Trains can be derailed. But nobody can get to us in flight.
I haven't lost a bill in eighteen years, don't jinx me, Walt.
I think Treasury personnel are the most superstitious people in the federal government.
We should be. Everybody wants what we have.
Travers! Hurry it up.
On my way. The cases are hooked up and ready.
Why didn't you send the money over?
Somehow I didn't think you'd wait for me if I'd sent it first.
What's the delay?
Let's move your ass in there!!
Kill me? Christ we're partners in this!
Were. Give me the tracking monitor!
Why? What are you going to do?!
The monitor! I never ask twice.
Don't use my name!
Ask the questions.
You're both with the mountain rescue team?
Where's the third one, Travers?
There, what's that place?
Get off my back, Qualen!
I haven't even got on it yet. Let's go, time to fetch.
Don't give him anything.
We agree on something. And for insurance, take his coat.
I don't trust him.
Kill him when he gets down.
Bring down the money or your friend's dead!
We can't and he knows it.
Man against nature, right Travers.
What about it?
Down there you buy a life, up here you earn it or die. How's your health?
This way.
Then go fetch.
He's alive!
He can't be far away. Find him. Go!
Jessie? Looks like your friend found company.
We're down to a few hours before the whole world shows up here. Where's the next one?
Good, Travers. It might catch on, like shooting skeet.
You dumb bastard, you waited too long. If he made it back, this place would have been covered with police in a few hours. The way we're moving, it's going to be anyway.
This is insane. The hell with the money. You radio in for that chopper, understand!
Hey, you dealt us this hand, we're playing it all the way. Move.
Is it set?
Primed to go off right over his head, officer.
Why the hell are we wasting time here?!
Insurance against him finding that last case ahead of us.
What's the code, Travers?
I told you, 50,000 possible keycode combinations, in fifteen second intervals.
Give me the fucking code!
You got what we need?
No, that sonofabitch Walker is alive.
No names, this is an open line!
I don't give a shit, Qualen! I had to be insane to ever tie up with a lowlife, piece of shit like you. They beat us. A couple of fuckin' hick mountain boys beat the man no law agency ever could.
Get off the radio!
I don't know about totally.
Who the hell ever is. This is the most protected shipment we've got and the most useless. These bills aren't even <u>in</u> circulation; the one thousand dollar bills we're transporting are only used for international banking exchange.
Do you always transport through the air?
What the hell are you doing
Now I have jurisdiction! I said get your weapons.
These are highly trained agents overreacting without just cause.
Calm down...give the gun to me. You're out of control, son.
What the hell are you waiting for, goddammit! Don't you see what he's doing! He's hijacking the shipment!
Rescue One  please be advised Ranger Walker is making advances toward my girlfriend that are liable to get his ass kicked right into space, over.
Copy. Hal, tell Gabe he only makes advances <u>to me</u> or else he'll be walking down four thousand feet, and sleeping outside.
Go after her.
Hold on, baby, he'll get you.
Got to be Comb Bluff.
Acknowledge. Winds are too strong to get a chopper up there, Are you near any natural shelter? Over.
You and Frank get the tents, thermal clothing, and medical supplies together.
Who's going with you?
You're looking at him.
Where's the rest of the team?
Bob and Rick are in Denver. I gotta get up there as fast as possible. Frank, get me a load of flares.
You gotta be kidding me! Do you want me to fly up after you? Over.
<u>Negative</u>. The winds are too high. I'm going to ride out the storm here. I'll take shelter in the Douglas Exhibition Shaft. Over and out.
Oh, my God!
Climb, Gabe, climb!
Right.
Then it's a deal.
Yeah...
Anyone else following?
What's your names?
Tucker and Walker.
Tucker and Walker, we've lost three bags.
Have her come up.
The down drafts would wipe her out. It's the only chopper. If it goes, you got no ride out.
On top of the peak.
It looks like a winding route.
He asked you, how far?! I think you've been taking the scenic route. How far from here?
Half a day.
Then where the fuck is!
There. You blind?
Where's the helicopter?
What the hell's going on?
The faster you find the bags, the bigger you boys' finder's fee will be.
Right, all the bullets we can eat.
He'll freeze.
Ryan, get a rope, I want the man on a leash, too.
What's he doing?
The best he can since you gave him nothing.
Talk. No tricks, no codes, no messages. You haven't found us. It was a fake call.
Jessie, I reached the top of the Tower. So far, no sign of anyone. Looks like a phoney call. Over.
Mr. Travers is not the athletic type, he needs something more direct.
The only faster way up is the East Face and it's smooth as glass. Maybe a dozen guys in the world could do it in good weather, only a psycho would try it in a storm.
Souvenirs? No, wrong answer. Looks like your friend plans on hanging around, that possible?
No, he's gone.
No, he's close, and he's using our money to keep you alive. Nobody's worth that much on the open market. Except you, the loyal one. Didn't I tell you to warm the place up?
It's up there, on the Tower.
How far?
For Christ's sake, they're kids.
We're not animals, but don't force us to be. Walk over.
You son of a bitch! You said you wouldn't kill him!
Sue me.
Murdering, motherfucker...
Kill a few people, they call you a murderer. When you kill millions, you're called a conqueror. Go figure. Move on Tucker, time is short.
You said there was a way across.
There is.
He never hurt anybody.
I'm touched. Kristel, check the chopper, let's go.
Travers, you're not running things.
When he finds the money, you're as dead as me.
Tucker, you know where the money is I want it.
Qualen, go fuck yourself. The game's overyou lost.
No, the goddamn game's not over! It's never over when you're playing against a team that doesn't care if they win or lose how do you negotiate with someone like that?!
What are you talking about?
Look here, the mountain man. You're Walker, right?
Good memory. You must be great with numbers.
Your mouth's writing a check your ass can't cash, but if ya wanna buy some life, bring me the money.
I burned it.
What the fuck you mean you burned it?
Never could save a thing.
Now you get burned.
Do you see them yet?
Patience my love, patience.
That's a virtue isn't it?
Wait, I think I have them sighted. What's the word, Frank?
Gabe? Gabe, where are you?
Just hangin' out.
Oh, my God! I can't recognize the face, but the butt does look vaguely familiar.
Don't say that. You'll embarrass Frank.
He knows it well.
The ledge, I know it well, or should I say <u>we</u> know it well.
You can stop right there.
We spent a night there one night...
Enough.
Yeah, we were caught in a storm. I went up there an innocent climber...
Oh, please.
And when I came down, my morals were corrupted forever.
Don't believe it... You know the trouble with you is you have no brain filter. Everything you think just pours right out.
The winds are picking up.
On my way. Alright Sarah, are you ready for the best ride in the park?
Hello, Gabriel.
When you call me Gabriel, I know I've got trouble.
Where've you been?
Working...I'm trying to figure out where to start.
Maybe I can help. Let's see... if one night I got up and packed up all my things and drove away without leaving so much as a note, and stayed away for months, I think what I'd want to do is come up with a well thoughtout reason.
After the funeral I just had to leave.
Had to leave? Believe me, we all wanted to leave...but you know what? We stayed.
A lot of things fell apart up there.
I know...
I don't think you do.
Why can't you believe that you did everything you could?
Did I? I don't know. Maybe I shouldn't have gone out on that line. Maybe I panicked.
I was there, you were the only one who didn't panic. So do everyone a favor, don't hog all the guilt. You held on as long as you could. Yes, everything did go wrong, starting with Hal. I mean, what was he doing up on the Tower with a girl who could barely climb?
I can't blame anything on Hal. It was me. I play it back in my mind everyday.
Then turn it off, Gabe, because it doesn't get any better.
I don't expect you to understand.
I don't understand?
You couldn't.
You're saying, I don't understand? I'm the <u>only</u> one who does understand. I'm the one you lived with for two years, I'm the one you made promises to, I'm the one who spent too many nights looking up at these rocks and wondering if you were ever going to make it down in once piece or ever at all. Believe me, there's been times I didn't know what I wanted to do more, love you or hate you. But the one thing in our relationship that I did know and still do know is that I <u>understand you</u>.
Why are you yelling?
Excuse me?
Why are you yelling?
Did I miss something?
Y'know, yelling at this altitude can lead to hyperventilation and fainting
I'm not going to faint, but if I want to faint, I'll faint, okay?
Okay, but if you do I'll have to perform resuscitation
Resuscitation?
mouthtomouth, which could maybe...
Which could maybe what?
Maybe lead to a flare up...
A flare up...
Flare up of old emotions...
Listen to you... The old "mouthtomouth" resuscitation routine, huh?
From one professional to another, of course.
Course maybe you don't have to wait until I faint.
No, I think I will, it's safer. I have patience.
Gabe, did you come back to stay? You didn't.
I can't. Not here. If you want, I'd like you to come with me...somewhere else.
Where?
It doesn't matter, anywhere but here.
You come back after being gone almost a year, and you expect me to just leave... This was <u>our</u> home, now it's <u>my</u> home. I can't leave. You can stay with me, and believe me, I want you to, but to just take off for the wrong reasons, I can't do it. And you shouldn't either.
Like I said, I can't turn it off.
And I can't leave.
If it's alright, I'm gonna pick up the rest of my gear.
You know where everything is... I'm late for my shift.
Jessyou look good.
Thank God you didn't leave. We just got a Mayday. Seven climbers stranded off Comb Bluff. The weather's pouring in fast and Hal's gone up alone.
Hal knows what he's doing.
If he gets up there and the weather gets as bad as it can, they'll never make it down. He needs someone who has emergency medical training and knows every handhold on these peaks.
He doesn't want my help.
That's not the issue here, those people are. He can't do it alone.
He can handle it.
What if he can't?
I haven't climbed in monthsyou lose the feel.
You mean the nerve.
I know you don't want to be responsible for anybody's life anymore, but walk away and you are responsible. Please Gabe, he went up the west ridge. If you go up the south face, you can catch him, no problem
Can't do it.
Can't do it? I don't believe this. Don't you feel anything?
I only came back for you.
Gabe!?
What are you doing here!?
Looking for Hal. Oh my God, I heard someone kick the door open...you came back.
How'd you get up here?
Frank dropped me in the west valley and I hiked. You look frozen. What's happening?!
You got to go back now!
Where's Hal, what's going on?
Before it crashed, they dumped three cases filled with millions. They're using Hal for a bird dog. Once they find the money, Hal's dead. So get on your radio, contact Frank, have him pick you up, then contact the state police, the park police and anything else wearing a badge and tell them to get up here! Do it Jessie.
I can't. The radio's at the bottom of the shaft. But Frank'll be looking for me soon. When he gets here I'll contact everybody from the chopper.
That's no good. It'll be dark soon, there's no other shelter for ten miles. If they show, they'll take you too. Why'd you have to come up here?!
For the same reason you did, to help.
Yeah, let's go.
Let's be creative.
Excuse me?
They've got to find shelter soon, and so do we. How are you holding up?
You know me, I'm a night person.
Take off and meet me at Eagle Cave.
What about you?
Don't worry about me, just go.
Man, it costs a fortune to heat this place.
I'm glad you find humor in this. Do you know what people would do for that?
I can't believe you just said that.
Neither can I. What do you think they're doing now?
Making things real rough for Hal.
You still wear the cable necklace I gave you.
Call me sentimental.
Remember the first time we came up here?
Of course I do.
It was great.
You attacked me.
Can you think of something more romantic than attacked?
Only kidding...<u>actually</u> I attacked you.
No, actually it was more like mutual attacking.
Why can't things stay the way they are...everything has to change. What we had was perfect.
I don't know. Here, lay down and get some rest. We're going to need it.
Gabe...your arm?
Yeah?
If you're not using your arm, can I borrow it?
Sure, just give it back when you're done.
We have to get through to the other side. You up for it?
I've gone this far, and right now I think I'm in better shape than you.
A simple yes or no would have done.
Want me to lead?
Cute.
Nice view, huh?
Breathtaking.
What was God thinking when he built this place?
If we don't get out of here soon we can ask him in person.
Gabe! Are you alright?
No, not really. Throw down a rope.
Can you see light?
Up ahead.
Gabe are you alright?
For the record, whenever you hear me sliding out of control, I'm never alright. When I secure the line, come on up.
No luck?
Next time, date only basketball players.
She's a lyin' bitch!!
Get it!
They'll kill him! He has no idea!
We gotta get out and fire a flare. It's the only chance!
We might be able to go that way.
Forget it. If that charge goes off before we can reach it, this whole damn crevice will slam shut on us. This way.
Pull it apart!
What?
Start pulling it apart! We're climbing down on it.
This rope is sixty years old!
These old ropes can hold 900 lbs., each strand 300. I'm 190, you're about 135  it just may hold.
Never
Never, what?!
I've never weighed 135 lbs.!
Helluva time for vanity!
Frank! No, Frank! Frank!
Jess, c'mon...
Gabe!
Hold on! Hold on! Reach up!
Reach up! Do it!
Don't let me fall!
Do it, goddammit!
Thanks for holding on.
We were going together before I ever let go of you.
I'm holding you to that. Gabe, what about Frank?
I don't know. I don't know.
Crockett River is where the last of the money fell.
If we go along the northern ridge, we can get there first.
There's no "we". There's a me. All I have to do is make it along the north wall to Bitker Ladder. What you're doing is going back down to the station to get help. And don't put on that mad face.
Forget it. You're in no shape to climb alone. I stayed with you this far, and you didn't drop me, so I owe you. C'mon, let's go. Hurry up, time is money.
"Time is money"  please.
My heart can't take much more of this. Look, if we climb down from here, it'll take two hours to get back to the station.
That's exactly what I want you to do.
What about you?
What do you think? Maybe I could reach the ledge without falling. No, forget it.
Oh, good. For a minute I thought you'd lost your mind.
But maybe with a good start I can hit those handholds.
Handholds?! I can barely see them.
We don't have time to argue about it!
Are you crazy? Has the altitude shrunk your brain, Gabe?
Take the rope.
I won't do it. No way.
Take the rope.
Enough's enough. How could anybody in their right mind... then again, you never were in your right mind.
Wrap it around that rock twice.
I'm going to wrap it around your throat!
An' if I miss, dig in and try your best to slow the fall.
Forget it! I refuse!
Fine, it shouldn't bother your conscience.
Don't lay any guilt on me. Suicide's a personal thing, best done alone.
Just kidding.
Gabe? Wait 'til I get over there. Tie the rope so I can come across.
Can't do it. Now go back and get help!
What about you?!
RUN, DAMMIT!!
The "old mouth to mouth" resuscitation routine.
There's a lot more where that came from. You're not leaving again?
And miss all of this peace and quiet? Never, right Hal?
Room service...Hi, Sarah.
Hi, Gabe.
How're ya feeling?
Fine, I guess...
Sarah, we could take off and leave this guy behind...
She's tough.
Is it really four thousand?
Sarah, tonight why don't you and Hal come over for dinner?
OkayI don't know about this.
Please, can I think about this for a minute...Okay, I'm sorry, it's fine. What do you want me to do?
Just keep lookin' at me and only think about the distance <u>across</u>. Count it as you go: One, two...by eight you'll be there.
Can I count as fast as I like?
Sure you can.
I'm sorry for all the trouble... Thank you.
There you go.
One...
Two...
That's it, you look like a professional.
Three...
Four...five...
Nice and easy...
Six...
Please  oh, no  please!
I'm here! Sarah, I'm here! I'm hereI've got you!
Use your other hand! Grab it!
Help me! I don't want to die!
You're not gonna die. Grab me with your other hand!
Glad you could drop in.
Hey, anything for a friend. How's the knee?
I think it's out. No big deal. It's that old football injury.
Funny, he told me he twisted it gettin' out of a hot tub.
I love you, too.
Rescue One  have located helpless climber, please prepare <u>idiot line</u> for transport, over.
Wait 'til you get into trouble, just wait.
Remember, keep your arms and legs within the vehicle at all times
Hey, fuck you.
I'm coming out!
No, stay off the line! You'll break her loose!
The clip's not gonna hold!
She's losing it!
Sarah, hold on, he'll have you in a second. Jesus Christ, grab her!
What the hell are you doing here?!
I was with Jessie, she filled me in.
Now let me fill you in. You can get your ass back down an' go back to that hole you been hiding in
When we get this group down, I'm gone.
You're gone now! I don't climb with people I can't trust. Why'd you come up, to prove something?
I'm here for the same reason you are, so let's do it.
Can't pass up another chance to play hero, can you.
Look, I know
You don't know anything. You did it your way and she died.
I did what I thought was right.
Well you were wrong! It was your weight on the line that did it
There wasn't time for anything else.
We'll never know, will we?
Look, it was a bad time for everybody.
What the hell do you know about bad time. You didn't love her, you didn't have to explain to her family.
And you weren't looking into her eyes when she fell. Now drop it!
No, buddy, it was you who dropped it!
If you want, do it. I don't care.
Forget me. If you can, get away.
Would you?
Thanks for staying around when you didn't have to.
My pleasure.
How's your leg? I'll live. Where'd you leave Jessie?
Near Freedom Falls. She went for help.
Hey, about everything that happened with Sarah. I know you did what you could
What are we going to do?
Give him the money.
I'm going with you.
Not on that leg.
Take the gun.
You keep it. Get up there if you can, and if you get a chance, do me a favor and kill him.
That was the first and last question now only answers. Where's the chopper?
It can't fly in this weather.
This is where your background in police work comes in handyask the questions, Travers.
You know how the airlines are.
Bags?
Suits, underwear, 100 million dollars...the usual stuff. Travers was smart enough to bring along a tracking device. Step into my office.
Looks like the Tower. It's a bad climb.
A bad climb, no, just another challenge. What's life without 'em, right, Agent Travers.
Go on, fetch.
I need my bolt gun and an ice axe.
Tucker?
Qualen, glad you stuck around. There should be a few hundred cops looking to meet you.
Jessie! Are you alright?
I want the moneymeet me at the highest point from where you are. Don't do it and we're going to see if your angel here can fly. Copy?
Copy. Jessie, go to the top of Bitker ladder.
Love's a killer, isn't it?
Where are you, Walker?
You're getting warmer!
Throw it up or I'll kill her.
You do, and the spring thaw is going to be worth a lot of cash!
The money!
WHEN SHE'S SAFE!
Hey, Jessie, you're just in time for another masterpiece.
So, what do you see?
Surprise me.
What usually eats a banana?
A monkey?
So...what are you, blind, son? This is a banana eating a monkey, nature in reverse.
Y'know, Jessie, doesn't Frank look like a normal guybut he's not, are you Frank?
Hal's signalling he's OK.
They're about two hundred yards from the top of the tower, right where that ledge comes out, Gabe.
He said the Tower, but he's on Comb Bluff? Frank, fly me to the west valley, the winds are never too bad there and it's only a half hour climb to the Douglas Shaft.
I don't know.
If I don't meet up with them, you can come and pick me up by nightfall.
Hal will have my head for this.
And it's such a handsome head. Please Frank, and I swear I'll buy one of your paintings.
I admit, I can be bought.
Jessie, Jessie, copy?
I copy.
Jessie, girl this is insane. Weather stat called in wind gusts up to 50 knots for tonight.
If you can't make it back, I'll hold up at the Douglas Shaft. Stop worryin'. You sound like a mother hen.
Rooster! Forget the hen stuff. Be safe, honey. Over.
Jessie, Hal, come in...please report. Over.
Where's the radio?
Answer the man.
Nothing, just tourist souvenirs.
C4?
More bang for the buck.
Ready to die quietlike, asshole.
Hey, let's get something straight. If I'm gonna die, I'm gonna die, but you're always gonna be the asshole, so just shoot, alright.
Who's shooting?
Did I hear somethin' break? Outside left!
Fuck you.
Cursin'. That's a penalty kick for unsportsmanlike conduct, mate.
Gabe! Hey, man! Gabe! It's Gabe!
How yo doin', Gabe!
Work! Don't say that word, man.
Man, I hate work even when somebody else does it!
Hey, Gabe, we're flyin' off the Tower today. C'mon with us.
C'mon, manit's perfect weather for a monster, fullfledged gutrush!
Did you catch that thunder?
No way, deathbreath, that was too intense for thunder. C'mon let's rock an' roll.
"It's a perfect day for a monster jump." Hey man, can you like do me a favor?
What?
Next time you're like watching MTV, y' know, like flip it to the weather channel for a split second and check it out. I mean, hey, we could be home watching some righteous pornos.
That woulda been cool.
Exactly, cheesehead, exactly.
Willam!
Ronnie! How are you? You work here now?
No, I'm just visiting my man. Dante, this is Willam Black. This is Dante Hicks, my boyfriend.
No, I transferred into Monmouth this year. I was tired of missing him.
Do you still talk to Sylvan?
I just talked to her on Monday. We still hang out on weekends.
That's cool. Wellyou two lovebirds take it easy, all right?
I will. Take it easy.
Bye.
Bye That was Snowball.
The guy ain't here yet.
You're kidding. It's almost eleven thirty!
I know. I've been here since eleven.
Man! I hate it when I can't rent videos!
I would've went to Big Choice, but the tape I want is right there on the wall.
Which one?
Dental School.
You came for that too? That's the movie I came for.
I have first dibs.
Says who?
Says me. I've been here for half an hour. I'd call that first dibs.
Ain't gonna happen, my friend. I'm getting that tape.
Like hell you are!
I'll bet you twenty bucks you don't get to rent that tape.
Twenty bucks?
Twenty bucks.
All right, asshole, you're on.
And... he told you all of this?
Pretty much. All except the latent homosexuality partthat's just my theory.
I... I don't know what to say.
Don't hold it against him. He just never got Caitlin out of his system. It's not your fault. It's Dante. I don't know thing one about chicks. Do you want to cry or something? I can leave.
I'm not sad.
You're not?
No, I'm more furious. I'm pissed off. I feel like he's been killing time while he tries to grow the balls to tell me how he really feels, and then he can't even do it! He has his friend do it for him!
He didn't ask me to...
After all that I've done for that fuck! And he wants to be with that slut? Fine! He can have his slut!
Um, do you think you can give me a lift home tonight?
I'm going to have a word with that asshole.
That's the price, my brother.
Yo, I don't have that kind of cash.
For this kind of hash, you need that kind of cash.
How long you gonna be here?
Till ten. Then I'm going to John K's party.
You're gonna be at John K's party?
My man is deaf. I'M GOING TO JOHN K'S PARTY! Neh.
Yo, don't sell all that. 'Cause I'm gonna get the cash and buy it from you at John K's. You're gonna bring it, right?
The only place I don't bring my drugs is church. And that ain't till Sunday morning.
Yo. I'll see you at that party. I'll see you there?
I'll see you there.
You've never heard anybody say anything about either movie?
I find it's best to stay out of other people's affairs.
Well, how about these two movies?
I just held up the same two movies. You're not even paying attention.
No, I wasn't.
I don't think your manager would appreciate...
I don't appreciate your ruse, ma'am.
I beg your pardon!
Your ruse. Your cunning attempt to trick me.
I only pointed out that you weren't paying any attention to what I was saying.
I hope it feels good.
You hope what feels good?
I hope it feels so good to be right. There is nothing more exhilarating than pointing out the shortcomings of others, is there?
Well this is the last time I ever rent here...
You'll be missed.
Screw you!
Let me ask you a question: Do you think this guy's out of shape?
I don't know. I can't really tell from here.
He is.
I think the lady called it.
My exboyfriend was about his height, but he was much bulkier. He could bench twofifty, three hundred easy.
I do about threefifty, four.
No way!
Feel that.
That's tight. Solid.
Now feel his. Roll up your sleeve, chief.
It's probably from being around all this food every day.
Oh, I know. If I had to work here all day, I'd be bloated and out of shape, too.
You're Dante Hicks? Oh my God! I didn't even recognize you!
Because he's out of shape.
To an Asian design major.
Shit! Don't take this the wrong way, but I used to fuck her.
Oh my God! You're Rick Derris?
Yeah!
Really?
Oh yeah. You were the built older guy with the black Trans and the big...
Holy shit! She told you about that! Buddy of mine worked there. Said he watched the whole thing. They used to film people at that hotel; nobody knew about it.
She said one time you set up a tent on the beach and you guys did it in the middle of this big rainstorm.
To a fiveyearold kid? What a scumbag!
That's sick, Dante.
Sure. How about the beach?
I like the way you think.
What part of Russia?
I don't fucking know. What am I, his biographer? Olaf, what part of Russia are you from?
Is he staying here?
He's moving to the big city next week. He wants to be a metal singer.
He really wants to play metal?
He's got his own band in Moscow. It's called "Fuck Your Yankee Blue Jeans" or something like that.
Come on, man, "Berserker!"
Does he sing in English or Russian?
English. Come on, "Berserker!" Girls think sexy.
Oh shit, look who it is. The human vacuum.
Scumbag. What are you doing?
Nothing. Just hanging out with Silent Bob and his cousin.
He's your cousin?
Check this out, he's from Russia.
No way.
I swear to God. Silent Bob, am I lying?
He only speaks Russian?
He knows some English, but he can't not speak it good like we do.
No way!
Swear. Olaf, metal!
What did he say?
I don't know, man. He's a fucking character.
That doesn't sound metal.
You gotta hear him sing. Olaf, "Berserker!"
Did he say "making fuck?"
Wait, there's more. Olaf: sing...
You open?
Yes. I'm not out of shape.
Excuse me, but have you been here all day?
What?
Were you working here at about four o'clock?
I've been here since six o'clock this morning. Why?
I'm not out of shape!
Can I have your name please?
Dante Hicks. Why? What is this about?
Here you go.
What's this?
A fine, for five hundred dollars.
WHAT?
What are you talking about?
According to the NJACthe New Jersey Administrative Code, section eighteen, five, slash twelve point fivea fine of no less than two hundred and fifty dollars is to be leveled against any person reported selling cigarettes to a minor.
I didn't do that!
You said you were here all day?
Yeah, but I didn't sell cigarettes to any kids!
An angry mother called the state division of taxation and complained that the man working at Quick Stop Convenience sold her fiveyearold daughter cigarettes today at around four o'clock. Division of taxation calls the State Board of Health, and they send me down here to issue a fine. You say you were working all day, hence the fine is yours. It's doubled due to the incredibly young age of the child.
But I didn't sell cigarettes to any kid!
I didn't sell cigarettes to any kids! I swear!
The due date is on the bottom. This summons cannot be contested in any court of law. Failure to remit before the due date will result in a charge of criminal negligence, and a warrant will be issued for your arrest. Have a nice day.
You hold the counter and I'll pull.
Usually I just turn the can upside down.
Maybe we should soap your hand or something.
They oughta put some kind of warning on these cans, like they do with cigarettes.
I think it's coming now...
Thanks. I thought I was gonna have to go to the hospital.
I'll throw this out. Precautionary measure.
It stings a little.
A word of advice: Sometimes it's best to let those hard to reach chips go.
All right, stupid question. But don't you think you're taking this a bit too hard?
Too hard?! I don't have enough indignities in my lifepeople start throwing cigarettes at me!
At least they weren't lit.
I hate this fucking place.
Then quit. You should be going to school anyway...
Please, Veronica. Last thing I need is a lecture at this point.
All I'm saying is that if you're unhappy you should leave.
I'm not even supposed to be here today!
I know. I stopped by your house and your mom said you left at like six or something.
The guy got sick and couldn't come in.
Don't you have a hockey game at two?
Yes! And I'm going to play like shit because I didn't get a good night's sleep!
Why did you agree to come in then?
I'm only here until twelve, then I'm gone. The boss is coming in.
Why don't you open the shutters and get some sunlight in here?
Somebody jammed the locks with gum.
You're kidding.
Bunch of savages in this town.
You look bushed. What time did you get to bed?
I don't knowlike twothirty, three.
What were you doing up so late?
Hunhh? Nothing.
What were you doing?
Nothing! Jesus! I gotta fight with you now?
Who's fighting? Why are you so defensive?
Who's defensive? Just... Would you just hug me?! All right? Your boyfriend was accosted by an angry mob, and he needs to be hugged.
What? What is that?
She called you, didn't she?
Oh, be real! Would you... Would you please hug me? I just went through a very traumatic experience and I haven't been having the best day so far. Now come on.
How much money did you leave up there?
Like three dollars in mixed change and a couple of singles. People only get the paper of coffee this time of morning.
You're trusting.
Why do you say that?
How do you know they're taking the right amount of change? Or even paying for what they take?
Theoretically, people see money on the counter and nobody around, they think they're being watched.
Honesty through paranoia. Why do you smell like shoe polish?
I had to use shoe polish to make that sign. The smell won't come off.
Do you think anyone can see us down here?
Why? You wanna have sex or something?
Ooh! Can we?!
Really?
I was kidding.
Yeah, right. You can't get enough of me.
Typically male point of view.
How do you figure?
You show some bedroom proficiency, and you think you're gods. What about what we do for you?
Women? Women, as lovers, are all basically the same: they just have to be there.
"Be there?"
Making a male climax is not all that challenging: insert somewhere close and preferably moist; thrust; repeat.
How flattering.
Now, making a woman cum... therein lies a challenge.
Oh, you think so?
A girl makes a guy cum, it's standard. A guy makes a girl cum, it's talent.
And I actually date you?
Something wrong?
I'm insulted. Believe me, Don Juan, it takes more than that to get a guy off. Just "being there"as you put itis not enough.
I touched a nerve.
I'm astonished to hear you trivialize my role in our sex life.
It wasn't directed at you. I was making a broad generalization.
You were making a generalization about "broads!"
These are my opinions based on my experiences with the few women who were good enough to sleep with me.
How many?
How many what?
How many girls have you slept with?
How many different girls? Didn't we already have this discussion once?
We might have; I don't remember. How many?
Including you?
It better be up to and including me.
Twelve.
You've slept with twelve different girls?
Including you; yes.
What the hell was that for?
You're a pig.
Why'd you hit me?
Do you know how many different men I've had sex with?
Do I get to hit you after you tell me?
Three.
Three?
Three including you.
You've only had sex with three different people?
I'm not the pig you are.
Who?
You!
No; who were the three, besides me?
John Franson and Rob Stanslyk.
Wow. That's great. That's something to be proud of.
I am. And that's why you should feel like a pig. You men make me sick. You'll sleep with anything that says yes.
Animal, vegetable, or mineral.
Vegetable meaning paraplegic.
They put up the least amount of struggle.
After dropping a bombshell like that, you owe me. Big.
All right. Name it.
I want you to come with me on Monday.
Where?
To school. There's a seminar about getting back into a scholastic program after a lapse in enrollment.
Can't we ever have a discussion without that coming up?
It's important to me, Dante. You have so much potential that just goes to waste in this pit. I wish you'd go back to school.
Jesus, would you stop? You make my head hurt when you talk about this.
Shit! Why are we getting up?
Unlike you, I have a class in forty five minutes.
Why do you call him that?
Sylvan made it up. It's a blow job thing.
What do you mean?
After he gets a blow job, he likes to have the cum spit back into his mouth while kissing. It's called snowballing.
He requested this?
He gets off on it.
Sylvan can be talked into anything.
Why do you say that?
Like you saidshe snowballed him.
Sylvan? No; I snowballed him.
Yeah, right.
I'm serious...
You sucked that guy's dick?
Yeah. How do you think I know he liked...
But... but you said you only had sex with three guys! You never mentioned him!
That's because I never had sex with him!
You sucked his dick!
We went out a few times. We didn't have sex, but we fooled around.
Oh my God! Why did you tell me you only slept with three guys?
Because I did only sleep with three guys! That doesn't mean I didn't just go with people.
Oh my GodI feel so nauseous...
I'm sorry, Dante. I thought you understood.
I did understand! I understand that you slept with three different guys, and that's all you said.
Please calm down.
How many?
Dante...
How many dicks have you sucked?!
Let it go...
HOW MANY?
All right! Shut up a second and I'll tell you! Jesus! I didn't freak like this when you told me how many girls you fucked.
This is different. This is important. How many?!
Well...?
Something like thirtysix.
WHAT? SOMETHING LIKE THIRTYSIX?
Lower your voice!
What the hell is that anyway, "something like thirtysix?" Does that include me?
Um. Thirtyseven.
I'M THIRTYSEVEN?
I'm going to class.
Thirtyseven?! My girlfriend sucked thirtyseven dicks!
Hey! Where are you going?!
Hey listen, jerk! Until today you never even knew how many guys I'd slept with, because you never even asked. And then you act all nonchalant about fucking twelve different girls. Well, I never had sex with twelve different guys!
No, but you sucked enough dick!
Yeah, I went down on a few guys...
A few?
...And one of those guys was you! The last one, I might add, whichif you're too stupid to comprehend means that I've been faithful to you since we met! All the other guys I went with before I met you, so, if you want to have a complex about it, go ahead! But don't look at me like I'm the town whore, because you were plenty busy yourself, before you met me!
Well... why did you have to suck their dicks? Why didn't you just sleep with them, like any decent person?!
Because going down it's a big deal! I used to like a guy, we'd make out, and sooner or later I'd go down on him. But I only had sex with the guys I loved.
I feel sick.
I love you. Don't feel sick.
Every time I kiss you now I'm going to taste thirtysix other guys.
I'm going to school. Maybe later you'll be a bit more rational.
Thirtyseven. I just can't...
Goodbye, Dante.
He still hasn't shown up. Why aren't you in class?
Lit 101 got canceled, so I stopped home and brought you some lunch.
What is it?
Peanut butter and jelly with the crusts cut off. What do you think it is? It's lasagne.
Really? You're the best.
I'm glad you've calmed down a bit. Hi, Randal.
You had to tell him.
I had to tell someone. He put it into perspective.
What did he say?
At least he wasn't thirtysix.
And that made you feel better?
And he said most of them are college guys, I've never met or seen.
The ostrich syndrome: if you don't see it...
...it isn't there. Yes.
Thank you for being rational.
Thank you for the lasagne.
You couldn't get these shutters open?
I called a locksmith and he said the earliest he could get here it tomorrow.
Bummer, Well, I've gotta head back for the onethirty class.
What time do you get finished?
Eight. But I have a sorority meeting till nine, so I'll be back before you close. Can we go out and get some coffee?
Sure.
Good. I'll see you when you close, then. Enjoy the lasagne.
What the fuck did you do that for?
If you didn't want to go out with me anymore, why didn't you just say it? Instead, you pussyfoot around and see that slut behind my back!
What're you talking about?
You've been talking to her on the phone for weeks!
It was only a few times...
And then you pull that shit this morning, freaking out because I've gone down on a couple guys!
A couple...?
I'm not the one trying to patch things up with my ex, sneaking around behind your back! And if you think that thirtyseven dicks are a lot, then just wait, mister: I'm going to put the hookers in Times Square to shame with all the guys I go down on now!
Would you let me explain...
Explain what? How you were waiting until the time was right, and then you were going to dump me for her?
Veronica... I... it's not like that anymore... I mean, it was never really like that...
You're damn right it's not like that! Because I won't let it be like that! You want your slut? Fine! The slut is yours!
I don't want Caitlin...
You don't know what you want, but I'm not going to sit here anymore holding your hand until you figure it out! I've encouraged you to get out of this fucking dump and go back to school, to take charge of your life and find direction. I even transferred so maybe you would be more inclined to go back to college if I was with you. Everyone said it was a stupid move, but I didn't care because I loved you and wanted to see you pull yourself out of this senseless funk you've been in since that whore dumped you, oh so many years ago. And now you want to go back to her so she can fuck you over some more?
I don't want to go back with her...
Of course not; not now! You're caught, and now you're trying to snake out of doing what you wanted to do. Well, I won't let you. I want you to follow through on this, just so you can find out what a fucking idiot you are. And when she dumps you again and she will, Dante, I promise you thatwhen she dumps you again, I want to laugh at you, right in your face, just so you realize that that was what you gave up our relationship for! I'm just glad Randal had the balls to tell me, since you couldn't.
Randal...?
And having him tell me... that was just the weakest move ever. You're spineless.
Veronica, I love you...
Fuck you.
Be careful.
I'm trying.
You know the insides of those are filled with stuff that gives you cancer.
So I'm told.
I had a friend that used to chew glass for a living. In the circus.
And he got cancer by chewing fluorescent bulb glass...?
No, he got hit by a bus.
Oh... Can I help you?
Well, that depends. Do you have a bathroom?
Um... yeah, but it's for employees only.
I understand, but can I use it. I'm not that young anymore, so I'm kind of... you know... incontinent.
Uh... sure. Go ahead. It's back through the cooler.
Thanks son. Saywhat kind of toilet paper you got back there?
The white kind.
I'm not asking about the color. I mean is it rough or cottony?
Actually, it is kind of rough.
Rough, eh? Oh, that stuff rips hell out of my hemorrhoids. Say, would you mind if I took a roll of the soft stuff back there. I see you sell the soft stuff.
Yeah, but...
Aw, c'mon boy. What's the difference? You said yourself the stuff that's there now is rough.
Yeah, okay. Go ahead.
Thanks son, you're a lifesaver.
Say, young fella, you know I hate to bother you again, but can I take a paper or something back there... to read? It usually takes me a while, and I like to read while it's going on.
Jesus... go ahead.
Thanks, young man. You've got a heart of gold.
You know, you probably could've been home, already, in the time it's taken you to get in there.
Can I trouble you for one of those magazines?
I said go ahead.
No, I mean the ones there. Behind the counter.
The porno mags?
Yeah. I like the cartoons. They make me laugh. They draw the biggest titties.
Here. Now leave me alone.
Uh, can I have the other one. The one below this one. They show more in that one.
It's not like it's a demanding job. I'd like to get paid to sit on my ass and watch TV. The other day I walked in there and that sonofabitch was sleeping.
I'm sure he wasn't sleeping.
You calling me a liar?
No; he was probably just resting his eyes.
What the hell is that? Resting his eyes! It's not like he's some goddamned air traffic controller!
Actually, that's his night job.
Such a wiseass. But go ahead. Crack wise. That's why you're jockeying a register in some fucking local convenience store instead of doing an honest day's work. I got no more time to bullshit around waiting for that sonofabitch. You make sure this gets back. The number's eighttwelveWynarski. And I wanted to get a damn movie, too.
If you'll just tell me the title of your rental choice, I'll have him hold it for you.
Don't hurt yourself. I'm going to Big Choice Video instead.
Are there any balls down there?!
'Bout the biggest pair you ever seen! NYNNE!!
Go open the video store.
Yeah, you cocksmoking clerk.
How many times I gotta tell you not to deal outside the store.
I'm not dealing.
Noinch, noinch, noinchsmoking weed, smoking weed! Doing coke! Drinking beers! A pack of wraps, my good man. It's time to kick back, drink some beers, and smoke some weed!
Done poisoning the youth for the day?
Hell yes, whatever that means. Now I'm gonna head over to Atlantic, drink some beers, get ripped, and please Godget laid. EZ Wider, oneandahalfs.
One seventynine.
Pay the good man. Don't you close soon?
A half hour.
We get off about the same time every night. We should hang out. You get high?
I should start.
Wanna come to this party tonight? There's gonna be some pussy there, man!
With you? I don't think so.
Listen to you. Oh shit. "Oh, I don't hang out with drug dealers."
Nothing personal.
I work, just like you. You're more of a crook than I am, dude.
How do you figure... HEY! You can't roll a joint in here!
Relax brother. What I mean is that you sell the stuff in this store at the highest prices around. A dollar seventynine for wrapswhat's that shit?
It's not my store.
And these aren't my drugsI just sell them.
The difference is you exploit a weakness.
What's that mean?
You sell to people that can't stay away from an addiction.
All right. How much is Pepsi here?
A dollar sixtynine, plus tax.
At Food City it's ninetynine cents, plus tax.
So.
So why do you sell it for so much more? I'll tell you whybecause people come here and they're like "A dollar eighty for soda? I should get it at Food City. But I don't feel like driving there. I'll just buy it here so I don't have to drive up there." That's exploiting a weakness, too, isn't it?
I can't believe you just rolled a joint in here.
Hey, man, what happened with that old guy?
He died in the bathroom.
That's fucked up. Yo, I heard he was jerkin' off.
I don't know. I wasn't watching.
Probably saw that Caitlin chick. I know I felt like beatin' it when I saw her. Come here, bitch! You like this? Is this what you want? Hunhh?
Knock it off. That used to be my girlfriend.
You used to go out with her?
We were going to start again, I think.
Don't you already have a girlfriend?
Veronica.
Is she that girl who's down here all the time? She came here today carrying a plate of food.
Lasagne.
And whatyou were gonna dump her to date that Caitlin chick?
Maybe.
I don't know dude. That Caitlin chick's nice. But I see that Veronica girl doing shit for you all the time. She brings you food, she rubs your back... Didn't I see her change your tire one day?
I jacked the car up. All she did was loosen the nuts and put the tire on.
Damn. She sure goes out of her way.
She's my girlfriend.
I've had girlfriends, but all they wanted from me was weed and shit. Shit, my grandma used to say, "Which is better: a good plate with nothing on it..." No, wait. I fucked up. She said "What's a goodlooking plate with nothing on it?"
Meaning?
I don't know. She was senile and shit. Used to piss herself all the time. C'mon Silent Bob.
Sounds to me like somebody needs to hit the gym.
Excuse me?
I heard you strain when you put the milk in the bag. That milk only weighs about seven pounds.
I didn't strain. I sighed.
I don't think so. That was a grunt; a deep inhalation of oxygen to aid in the stretching of muscles. I'm a trainer. I know what that sound signifies: you're out of shape.
I don't think so.
Oh, I do. You made the same noise when you reached across the counter for my cash. Your muscles are thin and sadly underutilized.
They are not.
Yes, they are. You're out of shape.
What are you talking about? There's no fat on this body.
No fat, but no tone either. You don't get enough exercise.
I am not.
How much can you bench?
I don't know.
Oh for God's sake!
See? You're ashamed. You know you're out of shape. Take my card. I can help you tone that body up in no time. Get you on an aerobics and freeweights program.
Did you say Caitlin Bree?
Yeah.
Pretty girl, about this girl's height dark hairgorgeous body?
Yeah?
And your name is Dante Hicks? You went to high school with her? You played hockey?
How do you know that?
Oh man! Hey, you still going out with her?
No, she's getting married.
To you?
What?
While you two were dating in high school. We're talking four, five years ago, back when I drove a Trans Am.
Wait a second! You used to sleep with Caitlin Bree? While I was dating her?
All the time. That girl was like a rabbit.
I... I don't believe this...
What? When? When did all this shit happen?
Hey man, that was a long time ago. Don't let it get to you.
But I didn't sell cigarettes to any kids! Hey!
Forget it. I don't want to deal with a guy that sells cigarettes to a fiveyearold. Can I offer you a ride somewhere?
Are you open?
Yes.
Just the paper.
Thirtyfire.
I'd say about sixty, seventytops.
I know I can bench more than that!
He's got those love handles.
I don't have love handles.
Do I know you?
You remember Alyssa Jones? She hung out with...
Caitlin Bree. Yeah?
I'm her sister.
You're Alyssa's sister? Heather?
Yep. I remember you got caught in my parents' room with Caitlin once.
You know him?
Caitlin used to talk about him all the time.
I still remember Caitlin telling us about that time you two went to that motelthe one with the mirrors and the hot tub in the room.
THE GLADES MOTEL?
I'm surprised you never found out about it, Dante. Everybody in school kneweven in my class.
Jesus Christ, what next?
You're late.
What the hell are you doing here? I thought you were playing hockey at one.
The boss called. Arthur fell ill.
Why are the shutters closed?
Someone jammed gum in the locks.
Bunch of savages in this town.
That's what I said.
Shit, if I'd known you were working, I would've come even later.
What time do you have to stay till?
He assured me that he'd be here by twelve.
What smells like shoe polish?
Go open the sore.
Some guy just came in refusing to pay late fees. He said the store was closed for two hours yesterday. I tore up his membership.
Shocking abuse of authority.
I'm a firm believer in the philosophy of a ruling class, especially since I rule. Is the Pelican flying?
Don't screw with it. It makes us look suspicious.
I can't stand a voyeur. I'll be back.
Want something to drink? I'm buying.
No, thanks.
Who was on your phone this morning at about twothirty? I was trying to call for a half an hour.
Why?
I wanted to use your car.
You don't want to know.
You called Caitlin again?
She called me.
Did you tell Veronica?
One fight a day with Veronica is about all I can stomach, thanks.
What do you two fight about?
I guess it's not really fighting. She just wants me to leave here, go back to school, get some direction.
I'll bet the most frequent topic of arguments is Caitlin Bree.
You win.
I'm going to offer you some advice, my friend: let the past be the past. Forget Caitlin Bree. You've been with Veronica for how long now?
Seven months.
Chick's nuts about you. How long did you date Caitlin?
Five years.
Chick only made you nuts. She cheated on you how many times?
Eight and a half.
Eight and a half?
Party at John K'ssenior year. I get blitzed and pass out in his bedroom. Caitlin comes in and dives all over me.
That's cheating?
In the middle of it, she calls me Brad.
She called you Brad?
She called me Brad.
That's not cheating. People say crazy shit during sex. One time, I called this girl "Mom."
I hit the lights and she freaks. Turns out she thought I was Brad Michaelson.
What do you mean?
She was supposed to meet Brad Michaelson in a bedroom. She picked the wrong one. She had no idea I was even at the party.
Oh, my God.
Great story, isn't it?
That girl was vile to you.
Interesting postscript to that story: Do you know who wound up going with Brad Michaelson in the other dark bedroom?
Your mother.
Allan Harris.
Chess team Allan Harris?!
The two moved to Idaho together after graduation. They raise sheep.
That's frightening.
It takes different strokes to move the world.
In light of this lurid tale, I don't see how you could even romanticize your relationship with Caitlinshe broke your heart and inadvertently drove men to deviant lifestyles.
Because there was a lot of good in our relationship.
Oh yeah.
I'm serious. Aside from the cheating, we were a great couple. That's what high school's all aboutalgebra, bad lunch, and infidelity.
You think things would be any different now?
They are. When she calls me now, she's a different personshe's frightened and vulnerable. She's about to finish college and enter the real world. That's got to be scary for anyone.
Oh shit, I've got to place an order.
I'm talking to myself here.
No, no, I'm listening. She's leaving college, and...?
...and she's looking to me for support. And I think that this is leading our relationship to a new level.
What about Veronica?
I think the arguments Veronica and I are having are some kind of manifestation of a subconscious desire to break away from her so that I can pursue the possibility of a more meaningful relationship with Caitlin.
Caitlin's on the same wavelength?
I think it's safe to say yes.
Then I think all four of you had better sit down and talk it over.
All four?
You, Veronica, Caitlin... ...and Caitlin's fianc.
Do you know that article is accurate? Caitlin's really getting married!
You know what I just watched?
Me pulling a can off some moron's fist.
Return of the Jedi.
Didn't you hear me? Caitlin really is getting married.
Which did you like better: Jedi or The Empire Strikes Back.
Empire.
Blasphemy.
Empire had the better ending: Luke gets his hand cut off, and finds out Vader's his father; Han gets frozen and taken away by Boba Fett. It ends on such a down note. And that's lifea series of down endings. All Jedi had was a bunch of Muppets.
There was something else going on in Jedi. I never noticed it until today.
What's that?
All right, Vader's boss...
The Emperor.
Right, the Emperor. Now the Emperor is kind of a spiritual figure, yes?
How do you mean?
Well, he's like the pope for the dark side of the Force. He's a holy man; a shaman, kind of, albeit an evil one.
I guess.
Now, he's in charge of the Empire. The Imperial government is under his control. And the entire galaxy is under Imperial rule.
Yeah.
Then wouldn't that logically mean that it's a theocracy? If the head of the Empire is a priest of some sort, then it stands to reason that the government is therefore one based on religion.
It would stand to reason, yes.
Hence, the Empire was a fascist theocracy, and the rebel forces were therefore battling religious persecution.
More or less.
The only problem is that at no point in the series did I ever hear Leia or any of the rebels declare a particular religious belief.
I think they were Catholics.
You know what else I noticed in Jedi?
There's more?
So they build another Death Star, right?
Yeah.
Now the first one they built was completed and fully operational before the Rebels destroyed it.
Luke blew it up. Give credit where it's due.
And the second one was still being built when they blew it up.
Compliments of Lando Calrissian.
Something just never sat right with me the second time they destroyed it. I could never put my finger on itsomething just wasn't right.
And you figured it out?
Well, the thing is, the first Death Star was manned by the Imperial army storm troopers, dignitariesthe only people onboard were Imperials.
Basically.
So when they blew it up, no prob. Evil is punished.
And the second time around...?
The second time around, it wasn't even finished yet. They were still under construction.
So?
A construction job of that magnitude would require a helluva lot more manpower than the Imperial army had to offer. I'll bet there were independent contractors working on that thing: plumbers, aluminum siders, roofers.
Not just Imperials, is what you're getting at.
Exactly. In order to get it built quickly and quietly they'd hire anybody who could do the job. Do you think the average storm trooper knows how to install a toilet main? All they know is killing and white uniforms.
All right, so even if independent contractors are working on the Death Star, why are you uneasy with its destruction?
All those innocent contractors hired to do a job were killed casualties of a war they had nothing to do with. All right, lookyou're a roofer, and some juicy government contract comes your way; you got the wife and kids and the twostory in suburbiathis is a government contract, which means all sorts of benefits. All of a sudden these leftwing militants blast you with lasers and wipe out everyone within a threemile radius. You didn't ask for that. You have no personal politics. You're just trying to scrape out a living.
You'll never believe what this unruly customer just said...
Wait.
She's in here?
This guy is going through all of the eggs. Look.
What's he looking for?
He said he has to find a perfect dozen.
Perfect dozen.
Each egg has to be perfect.
The quest isn't going well?
Obviously not. Look at all the cartons that didn't make the grade.
Why doesn't he just mix and match?
I told him that and he yelled at me.
What did he say?
He said it was important to have standards. He said nobody has pride anymore.
It's not like you laid the eggs yourself.
I'll give him five more minutes then I'm calling the cops. I don't need this, man. I'm not even supposed to be here today.
Did you ever notice all the prices end in nine? Damn, that's eerie.
You know how much money the average jizzmopper make per hour?
What's a jizzmopper?
He's the guy in those nudiebooth joints who cleans up after each guy that jerks off.
Nudie booth?
Nudie booth. You've never been in a nudie booth?
I guess not.
Oh, it's great. You step into this little booth and there's this window between you and this naked woman, and she puts on this little show for like ten bucks.
What kind of show?
Think of the weirdest, craziest shit you'd like to see chicks do. These chicks do it all. They insert things into any opening in their body... any opening. He's led a very sheltered life.
Can we talk about this later?
The jizzmopper's job is to clean up the booths afterward, because practically everybody shoots a load against the window, and I don't know if you know or not, but cum leaves streaks if you don't clean it right away.
Why do you do things like that? You know she's going to come back and tell the boss.
Who cares? That lady's an asshole. Everybody that comes in here is way too uptight. This job would be great if it wasn't for the fucking customers.
I'm gonna hear it tomorrow.
You gotta loosen up, my friend. You'd feel a hell of a lot better if you'd rip into the occasional customer.
What for? They don't bother me if I don't bother them.
Liar! Tell me there aren't customers that annoy the piss out of you on a daily basis.
There aren't.
How can you lie like that? Why don't you vent? Vent your frustration. Come on, who pisses you off?
It's not really anyone per se, it's more of separate groupings.
Let's hear it.
The milkmaids.
The milkmaids?
The women that go through every gallon of milk looking for a later date. As if somewherebeyond all the other gallonsis a container of milk that won't go bad for like a decade.
You know who I can do without? I could do without the people in the video store.
Which ones?
All of them.
No.
Why not?
Because my exgirlfriend is getting married.
Jesus, you got a onetrack mind. It's always Caitlin, Caitlin, Caitlin...
Veronica!
Thirtyseven!
Shut up! Yes, I've calmed down, I'm still not happy about it, but I've been able to deal.
Can you come next door? I gotta make a phone call.
Smokey Three: thumbs up, am I right?
The best Burtless movie ever made.
Vermont?
Can you believe this?!
He didn't mention it when he called you this morning?
Not a fucking word! Slippery shit!
So, whatyou're stuck here all day?
FUCK!
Why'd you apologize?
What?
I heard you apologize. Why? You have every right in the world to be mad.
I know.
That seems to be the leitmotif in your life; ever backing down.
I don't back down.
Yes, you do. You always back down. You assume blame that isn't yours, you come in when called as opposed to enjoying your day off, you buckle like a belt.
You know what pisses me off the most?
The fact that I'm right about your buckling?
I'm going to miss the game.
Because you buckled.
Would you shut the hell up with that shit? It's not helping.
Don't yell at me, pal.
Sorry.
See? There you go again.
I can't believe I'm going to miss the game!
At least we're stuck here together.
You've got a customer.
Pull my laces tighter.
I've gotta tell you, my friend: this is one of the ballsiest moves I've ever been privy to. I never would have thought you capable of such blatant disregard of store policy.
I told him I had a game today. It's his own fault.
No argument here. Insubordination rules.
I just want to play hockey like I was scheduled to.
He's blunt, but he's got a point.
At least let me maintain some semblance of managerial control here.
Design major.
Can we not talk about this?
Are you gonna lock the store?
I don't know. You going to lock the video store?
Look who you're asking here. How're we gonna block off the street?
We're not playing in the street.
Then where're we gonna play?
Helluva game!
One ball!! They come all the way here... I close the damn store... for one ball!
Hockey's hockey. At least we got to play.
Randal, twelve minutes is not a game! Jesus, it's barely a warmup!
Bitch, bitch, bitch. You want something to drink?
Gatorade.
What happened to all the Gatorade?
Exactly. They drank it all.
After an exhausting game like that I can believe it.
"It's not like we're gonna sell out."
You know what Sanford told me?
I still can't believe Caitlin's getting married.
Julie Dwyer died.
Yeah, right.
No, I'm serious.
Oh, my god.
Sanford's brother dates her cousin. He found out this morning.
How? When?
Embolism in her brain. Yesterday.
Jesus.
She was swimming at the YMCA pool when it happened. Died midbackstroke.
I haven't seen her in almost two years.
Correct me if I'm wrong, but wasn't she one of the illustrious twelve?
Number six.
You've had sex with a dead person.
I'm gonna go to her wake.
No, you're not.
Why not?
It's today.
What!?
Paulsen's Funeral Parlor. The next show is at four.
Shit. What about tomorrow?
One night only. She's buried in the morning.
You've gotta watch the store. I have to go to this.
Wait, wait, wait. Has it occurred to you that I might bereaved as well?
You hardly knew her!
True, but do you know how many people are going to be there? All of our old classmates, to say the least.
Stop it. This is beneath even you.
I'm not missing what's probably going to be the social event of the season.
You hate people.
But I love gatherings. Isn't it ironic?
Don't be an asshole. Somebody has to stay with the store.
If you go, I go.
She meant nothing to you!
She meant nothing to you either until I told you she died.
I'm not taking you to this funeral.
I'm going with you.
I can't close the store.
You just closed the store to play hockey on the roof!
Exactly, which means I can't close it for another hour so we can both go to a wake.
You were saying?
Thanks for putting me in a tough spot. You're a good friend.
She was pretty young, hunhh?
Twentytwo; same as us.
An embolism in a pool.
An embarrassing way to die.
That's nothing compared to how my cousin Walter died.
How'd he die?
Broke his neck.
That's embarrassing?
He broke his neck trying to suck his own dick.
Shut the hell up.
Bible truth.
Stop it.
I swear.
Oh, my god.
Come on. Haven't you ever tried to suck your own dick?
No!
Yeah sure. You're so repressed.
Because I never tried to suck my own dick?
No, because you won't admit to it. As if a guy's a fucking pervert because he tries to go down on himself. You're as curious as the rest of us, pal. You've tried it.
Who found him?
My cousin? My aunt found him. On his bed, doubled over himself with his legs on top. Dick in his mouth. My aunt freaked out. It was a mess.
His dick was in his mouth?
Balls resting on his lips.
He made it, hunhh?
Yeah, but at what a price.
I could never reach.
Reach what?
You know.
What, your dick?
Yeah. Like you said, you know. I guess everyone tries it, sooner of later.
I never tried it.
I know it was a bad idea to close the store.
Listen to you.
I can't help it. At least when we were playing hockey outside, I could see if anyone wanted to go in.
Nobody's there. It's four o'clock on a Saturday. How many people ever come to the store at four on a Saturday?
I can't fucking believe you!!
I'm telling you, it wasn't my fault!
You knocked the fucking casket over, for Chrissakes!
I was just leaning on it! It was an accident!
Does anyone ever knock over a casket on purpose?
So the casket fell over! Big deal!
Her fucking body fell out!
So they'll put her back in! It's not like it's gonna matter if she breaks something!
Just... go! Go open the video store.
Let me borrow your car.
I don't want to talk to you.
Fine. Just lend me your car.
Why should I loan you my car?
I want to rent a movie.
You want to rent a movie.
What's that for?
You work in a video store!
Can you imagine being halfway decent to the customers at least some of the time?
Let me borrow your car.
May I be blunt with you?
If you must.
We are employees of Quick Stop Convenience and RST video, respectively. As such, we have certain responsibilities whichthough it may seem cruel and unusualdoes include manning our posts until closing.
I see. So playing hockey and attending wakesthese practices are standard operating procedure.
There's a difference. Those were obligations. Obligations that could not have been met at any later date. Now renting videosthat's just gratuitous, not to mention illogical, considering you work in a video store.
You know what? I don't think I care for your rationale.
It's going to have to do for now, considering that it's my car that's up for request. Can I help you?
So your argument is that title dictates behavior?
What?
The reasons you won't let me borrow your car is because I have a title and a job description, and I'm supposed to follow it, right?
Exactly.
That's stretching it. You're not being asked to slay children or anything.
Not yet.
What the fuck did you do that for?
Two reasons: one, I hate when the people can't shut up about the stupid tabloid headlines.
Jesus!
And two, to make a point: title does not dictate behavior.
What?
If title dictated my behavior, as a clerk serving the public, I wouldn't be allowed to spit a mouthful of water at that guy. But I did, so my point is that people dictate their own behavior. Hence, even though I'm a clerk in this video store, I choose to go rent videos at Big Choice. Agreed?
You're a danger to both the dead and the living.
I like to think I'm a master of my own destiny.
Please, get the hell out of here.
I know I'm your hero.
Get to work.
What'd you rent? Best of Both Worlds?
Hermaphroditic porn. Starlets with both organs. You should see the box: Beautiful women with dicks that put mine to shame.
And this is what you rented?
I like to expand my horizons.
I got fined for selling cigarettes to a minor.
No way!
Five hundred dollars.
You're bullshitting.
I didn't think they even enforced this.
Living proof.
I thought you never sold cigarettes to kids.
I don't; you did.
Really?
Little girl. Maybe five years old?
Holy shit. That girl?
As opposed to the hundreds of other children you let buy cigarettes whenever you work here.
Then how come you got the fine?
Because I'm here.
You're lying.
I swear. I couldn't make this kind of hell up.
Then why aren't you like screaming at me right now?
Because I'm happy.
You're happy?
I'm happy.
You're happy to get a fine?
No. I'm happy because Caitlin came to see me.
Now I know you're lying.
I'm not. She just left.
What did she say?
She's not going to marry that guy. She went home to tell her mother.
You're kidding.
I'm not.
Wow. You've had quite an evening.
She went home, she's getting ready, and we're going out.
I feel so ineffectual. Is there anything I can do for you?
Watch the store while I go home and change.
What happened to title dictates behavior?
This is my way of spitting water at life.
Hey, what about Veronica?
No! Don't bring it up. I don't want to think about that now. Let me enjoy this hour of bliss. I'll think about all of that later. In the meantime, nobody mentions the V word.
You're a snake.
In my absence, try not to sell cigarettes to any newborns.
You want me to bring the VCR over here so we can watch this?
I might be leaving early to go out with Caitlin, in which case you'll have to close the store tonight.
All right, but you're missing out. Chicks with dicks.
I'll read the book.
Who eats cock?
Bunch of savages in this town. Hey, Caitlin's in the back. You might want to see if she's okay; she's been back there a long time.
There's no lights back there.
I told her that. She said she didn't need any. Why don't you join her, man. Make a little bathroom bambam.
I love your sexy talk. It's so... kindergarten: Poopoo; weewee.
Fuck you.
Maybe the Asian design major slipped her some opium?
Could be.
You just fucked a total stranger?
Shut the fuck up!
She said she did all the work.
WOULD YOU SHUT THE FUCK UP? WHO THE FUCK IS IN THE BATHROOM?
Around three or something.
What time did we go to the funeral?
I think four.
What? What's with you? You haven't said anything for like twenty minutes. What the hell is your problem?
This life.
This life?
Why do I have this life?
Have some chips; you'll feel better.
I'm stuck in this pit, earning less than slave wages, working on my day off, dealing with every backward fuck on the planet, the goddamn steel shutters are locked all day, I smell like shoe polish, I've got an ex girlfriend who's catatonic after fucking a dead guy, and my present girlfriend has sucked thirtysix dicks.
Thirtyseven.
My life is in the shitter right about now, so if you don't mind, I'd like to stew a bit.
That's all bullshit. You know what the real problem here is?
I was born.
You should shit or get off the pot.
I should shit or get off the pot.
Yeah, you should shit or get off the pot.
What are you talking about?
I'm talking about this thing you have... this inability to improve your situation in life.
Fuck you.
It's true. You'll sit there and blame life for dealing a cruddy hand, never once accepting the responsibility for the way your situation is.
What responsibility?
All right, if you hate this job and the people, and the fact that you have to come in on your day off, then quit.
As if it's that easy.
It is. You just up and quit. There are other jobs, and they pay better money. You're bound to be qualified for at least one of them. So what's stopping you?
Leave me alone.
You're comfortable. This is a life of convenience for you, and any attempt to change it would shatter the pathetic microcosm you've fashioned for yourself.
Oh, like your life's any better?
I'm satisfied with my situation for now. You don't hear me bitching. You, on the other hand, have been bitching all day.
Thank you. Why don't you go back to the video store?
It's the same thing with Veronica.
Leave her out of this.
You date Veronica because she's low maintenance and because it's convenient. Meanwhile, all you ever do is talk about Caitlin. You carry a torch for a girl you dated in high schoolin high school for God's sake! You're twentytwo!
Leave me alone.
If you want Caitlin, then face Veronica, tell her, and be with Caitlin. If you want Veronica, be with Veronica. But don't pine for one and fuck the other. Man, if you weren't such a fucking coward...
...If I wasn't such a fucking coward. It must be so great to be able to simplify everything the way you do.
Am I right or what?
You're wrong. Things happened today, okay? Things that probably ruined my chances with Caitlin.
What? The dead guy? She'll get over fucking the dead guy. Shit, my mom's been fucking a dead guy for thirty years; I call him Dad.
Caitlin and I can't be together. It's impossible.
Melodrama coming from you seems about as natural as an oral bowel movement.
What do you want me to say? Yes, I suppose some of the things you're saying may be true. But that's the way things are; it's not going to change.
Make them change.
I can't, all right! Jesus, would you leave me alone? I can't make changes like that in my life. If I could, I wouldbut I don't have the ability to risk comfortable situations on the big money and the fabulous prizes.
Who're you kidding? You can so.
Jesus H. Christ, I can't!
So you'll continue being miserable all the time, just because you don't have the guts to face change?
My mother told me once that when I as three, my potty lid was closed, and instead of lifting it, I chose to shit my pants.
Lovely story.
Point isI'm not the kind of person that disrupts things in order to shit comfortably.
How's your eye?
The swelling's not so bad. But the FDS stings. How's your neck?
It's hard to swallow.
You didn't have to choke me.
Why the fuck did you tell Veronica that I was going to dump her for Caitlin?
I thought I was doing you a favor.
Thanks.
You were saying how you couldn't initiate change yourself, so I figured I'd help you out.
Jesus.
You still didn't have to choke me.
Oh please! I'm surprised I didn't kill you.
Why do you say that?
Why do I say that? Randal... forget it.
No, really. What did I do that was so wrong?
What don't you do? Randal, sometimes it seems like the only reason you come to work is to make my life miserable.
How do you figure?
What time did you get to work today?
Like ten after.
You were over half an hour late. Then all you do is come over here.
To talk to you.
Which means the video store is ostensibly closed.
It's not like I'm miles away.
Unless you're out renting videos at other video stores.
Hermaphrodites! I rented it so we could watch it together!
You get my slapped with a fine, you fight with the customers and I have to patch everything up. You get us chased out of a funeral by violating a corpse. To top it all off, you ruin my relationship. What's your encore? Do you anally rape my mother while pouring sugar in my gas tank? You know what the real tragedy is? I'm not even supposed to be here today!
Fuck you. Fuck you, pal. Listen to you trying to pass the buck again. I'm the source of all your misery. Who closed the store to play hockey? Who closed the store to attend a wake? Who tried to win back an ex girlfriend without even discussing how he felt with his present one? You wanna blame somebody, blame yourself. "I'm not even supposed to be here today." You sound like an asshole. Whose choice was it to be here today? Nobody twisted your arm. You're here today of your own violation, my friend. But you'd like to believe that the weight of the world rests on your shouldersthat the store would crumble if Dante wasn't here. Well, I got news for you, jerk: This store would survive without you. Without me either. All you do is overcompensate for having what's basically a monkey's job: You push fucking buttons. Any moron can waltz in here and do our jobs, but you're obsessed with making it seem so much more fucking important, so much more epic than it really is. You work in a convenience store, Dante. And badly, I might add. And I work in a shitty video store. Badly, as well. You know, that guy Jay's got it right he has no delusions about what he does. Us? We like to make ourselves seem so much better than the people that come in here, just looking to pick up a paper orGod forbid cigarettes. We look down on them, as it we're so advanced. Well, if we're so fucking advanced, then what are we doing working here?
I threw out the stuff that got broken. The floor looks clean.
You need a ride?
Got one. Just pulled up.
Do you work tomorrow?
Same time. What about you?
I'm calling out. Going to hit the hospitalsee how Caitlin is. Then try to see Veronica.
You wanna grab something to eat tomorrow night... after I get out of here?
I'll call you. Let you know.
All right. Good luck with Veronica. If you want, I can talk to her, you know, and explain...
No thanks. I'll take care of it. We've got a lot of shit to talk about.
Helluva day.
To say the least.
Do you need a hug or something? 'Cause I would have no hangups about hugging you... you know, you being a guy and all. Just don't knead my ass when you do it.
Get the fuck outta here already.
I'm gone. I'll talk to you tomorrow.
Dante, let me grab a Gatorade.
If you grab a Gatorade, then everybody's going to grab one.
So?
So? So nobody's going to want to pay for these Gatorades.
What do you care? Hey, what smells like shoe polish?
I've got a responsibility here. I can't let everybody grab free drinks.
What responsibility? You're closing the fucking store to play hockey.
All right. Jesus, you fuckers are pushy.
Hey man, I hear Caitlin's marrying an Asian drum major.
You only brought one ball?!
I thought Redding had like three balls!
Shit!
We get... what... twelve minutes of game, and it's over? Fuck! Fuck! Fuck! Fuck!! I'm not even supposed to be here today!
All right, now if you're really feeling dangerous tonight, then Smokey and the Bandit Three is the movie you must rent.
This doesn't even have Burt Reynolds in it.
Hey, neither did ET; but that was a great movie, right?
Awww, he's so cute. What's his name?
Lenin's Tomb.
I work in a shitty video store. I want to go to a good video store so I can rent a good movie.
Are you open?
Pack of cigarettes. Cute cat. What's its name?
Annoying Customer.
Pack of cigarettes.
What's your point?
I saw one, one time, that said the world was ending the next week. Then in the next week's paper, they said we were miraculously saved at the zero hour by a Koalafish mutant bird. Crazy shit.
So I'm no more responsible for my own decisions while I'm here at work than, say, the Death Squad soldiers in Bosnia?
Cute cat. What's his name.
Peptic ulcer.
You open?
Yeah.
What am I worried about? He'll probably be glad I started the ball rolling. All he ever did was complain about her anyway. I'm just looking out for his best interests. I mean, that's what a friend does, am I right? I did him a favor.
Oooh! Navy Seals!
Are you open?
Yeah.
Pack of cigarettes.
This is the last time I come to this place.
Excuse me?
Using filthy language in front of the customers... you should both get fired.
We're sorry, ma'am. We got a little carried away.
Well, I don't know if sorry can make up for it. I found your remarks highly offensive.
If you can just wait a few more minutes.
Fuck that! I'm gonna break my crazy neck on this ladder!
What the fuck is this?! I want some service!
In a second!
Fuck in a second! This is... Look at you! You can't even pass!
I can pass!
How 'bout covering point!? You suck!
Who are you to make assessments?
I'll assess all I want!
Like you're better!
I can whip your ass.
That's easy to say from over here.
Give me a stick, pretty boy! I'll knock your fucking teeth out and pass all over your ass.
Are you open?
Yes.
My point is that you're a clerk, paid to do a job. You can't just do anything you want while you're working.
"Space Alien Revealed as Head of Time Warner; Reports Stock Increase." They print any kind of shit in these papers.
They certainly do. Two fiftyfive.
I'M GONNA BREAK YOUR FUCKING HEAD! YOU FUCKING JERKOFF!
Sir! Sir, I'm sorry! He didn't mean it! He was trying to get me.
Well, he missed!
I know. I'm sorry. Let me refund your cigarette money, and we'll call it even.
This is the last time I ever come here. And if I ever see you again, I'm gonna break your fucking head open!
Excuse me, do you have...
To the back, above the oil. How long are you staying?
Pack of cigarettes. Congratulations. I saw that announcement in today's paper. She's marrying an Asian design major.
So I'm told.
I don't know. He just came in and asked to use the bathroom.
What time was this?
Um... I don't know. What time did hockey end?
Wait a second? Who was working here today?
Just me.
I thought you just said you played hockey and went to a funeral.
We did.
Then who operated the store?
Nobody. It was closed.
With this guy locked in?
Everything happened at once. I guess I forgot he was back there.
Was he alive when... Caitlin...
No. I place the time of death at about threetwenty.
Well he asked me for it!
I can't say for certain until we get him back to the lab, but my guess is he was masturbating, his heart seized and he died. That's when the girl found him. Something smells like shoe polish.
What about Caitlin?
Shock trauma. She's going to need years of therapy after this. My question is, How did she come to have sex with the dead man?
She thought it was me.
When did you get back?
Just now.
My God. I haven't seen you since...
Dante. You've got a customer.
I just saw Alyssa's little sister outside. She was with Rick Derris.
Let's not talk about that. How'd you get home?
Train. It took eight hours.
I can't believe you're here.
You're just going to lock the store like that?
I want to talk to you about something, and I don't want to be disturbed.
You saw it?
Very dramatic, I thought.
It's not what you think.
What, it's worse? You're pregnant with an Asian design major's child?
I'm not pregnant.
Were you going to tell me or just send me an invitation?
I was going to tell you. But then we were getting along so well, I didn't want to mess it up.
You could've broke it to me gently, you know; at least started by telling me you had a boyfriend. I told you I have a girlfriend.
I know, I'm sorry. But when we started talking... it's like I forgot I had a boyfriend. And then he proposed last month...
And you said yes?
Well... kind of, sort of?
Is that what they teach you at that school of yours? Kind of, sort of? Everyone knows about this except me! Do you know how humiliating that is?
I would've told you, and you would have stopped calling, like a baby.
How do you know that?
Because I know you. You prefer drastic measures to rational ones.
So you're really getting married?
No.
No, you're not really getting married?
The story goes like this: He proposed, and I told him I had to think about it, and he insisted I wear the ring anyway. Then my mother told the paper we were engaged.
How like her.
Then my mother called me this morning and told me the announcement was in the paper. That's when I hopped the train to come back here, because I knew you'd be a wreck.
Thanks for the vote of confidence.
Was I right?
Wreck is a harsh term. Disturbed is more like it. Mildly disturbed even.
I love a macho faade. It's such a turnon. What smells like shoe polish?
And you came here to what? To comfort me?
The last thing I needed was for you to think I was hiding something from you.
But you were.
No, I wasn't. Not really. I told you'd I'd been seeing other people.
Yeah, but not seriously. Christ, you're ready to walk down the aisle I'd say that constitutes something more than just seeing somebody.
I'm giving him his ring back.
What?
I don't want to marry him. I don't want to get married now. I'm on the verge of graduation. I want to go to grad school after this. And then I want to start a career. I don't want to be a wife first, and then have to worry about when I'm going to fit in all of the other stuff. I've come way too far and studied too hard to let my education go to waste as a housewife. And I know that's what I'd become. Sang's already signed with a major firm, and he's going to be pulling a huge salary, which would give me no reason to work, and he's so traditional anyway...
Sang? His name is a past tense?
Stop it. He's a nice guy.
If he's so nice, why aren't you going to marry him?
I just told you.
There's more, isn't there?
Why, Mr. Hickswhatever do you mean?
Tell me I don't have something to do with it.
You don't have anything to do with it.
You lie.
Look how full of yourself you are.
I just believe in giving credit where credit is due. And I believe that I'm the impetus behind your failure to wed.
If I'm so nuts about you, then why am I having sex with an Asian design major?
Jesus, you're caustic.
I had to bring you down from that cloud you were floating on. When I say I don't want to get married, I mean just that. I don't want to marry anybody. Not for years.
So who's asking? I don't want to marry you.
Good. Stay in that frame of mind.
But can we date?
I'm sure Sang andVeronica?would like that.
We could introduce them. They might hit it off.
You're serious. You want to date again.
I would like to be your boyfriend, yes.
It's just the shock of seeing me after three years. Believe me, you'll get over it.
Give me a bit more credit. I think it's time we got back together, you know. I'm more mature, you're more mature, you're finishing college, I'm already in the job market...
You work in a market, all right.
Cute. Tell me you wouldn't want to go out again. After all the talking we've been doing.
The key word here is talk, Dante. I think the idea, the conception of us dating is more idyllic than what actually happens when we date.
So... what? So we should just make pretend over the phone that we're dating?
I don't know. Maybe we should just see what happens.
Let me take you out tonight.
You mean, on a date?
Yes. A real date. Dinner and a movie.
The Dante Hicks Dinner and a Movie Date. I think I've been on that one before.
You have a better suggestion?
How about the Caitlin Bree Walk on the Boardwalk, Then Get Naked Somewhere Kind of Private Date?
I hear that's a rather popular date.
Jerk. Here I am, throwing myself at you, succumbing to your wily charms, and you call me a slut, in so many words.
What about Sing?
Sang.
Sang.
He's not invited.
He's your fianc.
I offer you my body and you offer me semantics? He's just a boyfriend, Dante, and in case you haven't gotten the drift of why I came all the way here from Ohio, I'm about to become single again. And yeslet me placate your egoyou are the inspiration for this bold and momentous decision, for which I'll probably be ostracized at both school and home. You ask me who I choose, I choose you.
So what are you saying?
You're such an asshole.
I'm just kidding.
I can already tell this isn't going to work.
I'll ask Randal to close up for me when he gets back.
Where'd he go? I'd have thought he'd be at your side, like an obedient lapdog.
He went to rent a movie, but he hasn't gotten back yet. Ah, screw it; I'll just lock the store up and leave him a note.
You're too responsible. But no. I have to go home first. They don't even know I left school. And I should break the disengagement news to my mother, which is going to cause quite a row, considering she loves Sang.
Who doesn't?
Well, me I guess. So, I shall take my leave of you, but I will return in a little while, at which timeyesI would love to go for dinner and a movie with you.
What happened to the walk and the nakedness?
I'm easy, but I'm not that easy. See you later, handsome.
How'd you get here so fast?
I left like an hour ago.
Do you always talk weird after you violate women?
Promise me it'll always be like that.
Like what?
When you just lie perfectly still and let me do everything.
Um... okay.
And the fact that there weren't any lights made it so... God! That was so great!
It wasn't me.
Yeah, right. Who was it: Randal?
Was it you?
I'm serious.
We didn't just have sex in the bathroom?
No.
Stop this. This isn't funny.
I'm not kidding. I just got back from outside.
This isn't fucking funny, Dante!
I'm not fooling around! Who went back there?
Are you sure somebody was back there?
I didn't just fuck myself! Jesus, I'm going to be sick!
I can't believe this! I feel faint...
Call the police.
There's a strange man in our bathroom, and he just raped Caitlin!
Oh God...
Randal Gravesscourge of the video renter.
Ladies and gentleman, Mrs. Asian Design Major herself: Caitlin Bree!
You saw that article? God, isn't it awful? My mother sent that in.
I take it she likes the guy.
You'd think she was marrying him. What are you watching?
Children's programming. What did your mom say when you told her you weren't engaged anymore?
She said not to come home until graduation.
Wow, you got thrown out? For Dante?
What can I say? He does weird things to me.
Can I watch?
You can hold me down.
Can I join in?
You might be let down. I'm not a hermaphrodite.
Few are. So what makes you think you can maintain a relationship with Dante this time around?
A woman's intuition. Something in me says it's time to give the old boy a serious try.
Wow. Hey, I was just about to order some dinner. You eat Chinese, right?
Dick.
Exactly.
So where is he?
He went home to change for the big date.
God, isn't he great?
No, this is great.
Can I use the bathroom?
There's no light back there.
Why aren't there any lights?
Well, there are, but for some reason they stop working at fivefourteen every night.
You're kidding.
Nobody can figure it out. And the boss doesn't want to pay the electrician to fix it, because the electrician owes money to the video store.
Such a sordid state of affair.
And I'm caught in the middletorn between my loyalty for the boss, and my desire to piss with the light on.
I'll try to manage.
Hey Caitlin... Break his heart again this time, and I'll kill you. Nothing personal.
You're very protective of him, Randal. You always have been.
Territoriality. He was mine first.
Awww. That was so cute.
Am I missing something here?
I went back there, and Dante was already waiting for me.
He was?
It was so cool. He didn't say a word. He was just... ready, you know? And we didn't kiss or talk or anything. He just sat there and let me do all the work.
You dog! I didn't see you go back there.
I was here the whole time.
You two better quit it.
Nobody! I swear!
I feel nauseous.
Why?
No, don't!
Thanks. Have a good one.
Do you mind if I drink this here?
Sure. Go ahead.
Beats me.
How long have you been a smoker?
Excuse me, but...
This is where you're heading. A cruddy lung, smoking through a hole in your throat. Do you really want that?
Fiftyfive.
You've made a wise choice. Keep up the good work.
Maybe you should take that coffee outside.
No, I think I'll drink it in here, thanks.
If you're going to drink it in here, I'd appreciate it if you'd not bother the customers.
Okay. I'm sorry about that.
Hey, now wait a sec...
Now he's going to launch into his rap about how he's just doing his job; following orders. Friends, let me tell you about another bunch of hate mongers that were just following orders: they were called Nazis, and they practically wiped a nation of people from the Earth... just like cigarettes are doing now! Cigarette smoking is the new Holocaust, and those that partake in the practice of smoking or sell the wares that promote it are the Nazis of the nineties! He doesn't care how many people die from it! He smiles as you pay for your cancer sticks and says, "Have a nice day."
I think you'd better leave now.
You want me to leave? Why? Because somebody is telling it like it is? Somebody's giving these fine people a wakeup call?!
You're loitering in here, and causing a disturbance.
You're the disturbance, pal! And here... I'm buying some... what's this?... Chewlie's Gum. There. I'm no longer loitering. I'm a customer, a customer engaged in a discussion with other customers.
That's it, everybody out.
We're not moving! We have a right, a constitutional right, to assemble and be heard!
Yeah, but not in here.
What better place than this? To stamp it out, you gotta start at the source!
Like I'm responsible for all the smokers!
The ones in this town, yes! You encourage their growth, their habit. You're the source in this area, and we're going to shut you down for good! For good, cancermerchant!
Are you sure?
Am I sure?
Are you sure?
Am I sure about what?
Do you really want to buy those cigarettes?
Are you serious?
How long have you been smoking?
What is this, a poll?
I'd say you're about nineteen, twenty, am I right?
What the hell is that?
That's your lung. By this time, your lung looks like this.
You're shittin' me.
You think I'm shitting you...
What's this?
It's a trach ring. It's what they install in your throat when throat cancer takes your voice box. This one came out of a sixtyyearold man.
Unnhh!
He smoked until the day he died. Used to put the cigarette in this thing and smoke it that way.
Well, if it's already too late...
It's never too late. Give those cigarettes back now, and buy some gum instead. Here. Chewlies Gum. Try this.
It's not the same.
It's cheaper than cigarettes. And it certainly beats this.
Jesus!
It's a picture of a cancerridden lung. Keep it.
I'll just take the gum.
Pack of cigarettes. What's that?
This? How long have you been smoking?
Right away. Will you have something, Mr. Thompson?
I'll have a highball.
She's just not talking to anybody from the newspapers, Mr. Thompson.
I'm not from a newspaper exactly, I 
She's plastered, isn't she?
She'll snap out of it. Why, until he died, she'd just as soon talk about Mr. Kane as about anybody. Sooner.
I'll come down in a week or so and see her again. Say, you might be able to help me. When she used to talk about Kane  did she ever happen to say anything  about Rosebud?
Rosebud?
Who told you you could sit down here?
Oh! I thought maybe we could have a drink together?
Think again!
Why don't you people let me alone? I'm minding my own business. You mind yours.
If you'd just let me talk to you for a little while, Miss Alexander. All I want to ask you...
Get out of here! Get out! Get out!
How do you want to handle the whole thing  ask questions?
I'd rather you just talked. Anything that comes into your mind  about yourself and Mr. Kane.
You wouldn't want to hear a lot of what comes into my mind about myself and Mr. Charlie Kane.
How did you meet him?
I had a toothache.
I did a lot of singing after that. I sang for Charlie  I sang for teachers at a hundred bucks an hour  the teachers got that, I didn't 
What did you get?
What do you mean?
I didn't get a thing. Just the music lessons. That's all there was to it.
He married you, didn't he?
He was in love with me. But he never told me so until after it all came out in the papers about us  and he lost the election and that Norton woman divorced him.
What about that apartment?
He wanted me to be comfortable  Oh, why should I bother? You don't believe me, but it's true. It just happens to be true. He was really interested in my voice. What are you smiling for? What do you think he built that opera house for? I didn't want it. I didn't want to sing. It was his idea  everything was his idea  except my leaving him.
In case you've never heard of how I lost all my money  and it was plenty, believe me 
The last ten years have been tough on a lot of people.
They haven't been tough on me. I just lost my money. But when I compare these last ten years with the twenty I spent with him 
I feel kind of sorry for him, all the same 
Don't you think I do? You say you're going down to Xanadu?
Monday, with some of the boys from the office. Mr. Rawlston wants the whole place photographed carefully  all that art stuff. We run a picture magazine, you know 
I know. If you're smart, you'll talk to Raymond. That's the butler. You can learn a lot from him. He knows where the bodies are buried.
Yes, sir  yes, sir, I knew how to handle the old man. He was kind of queer, but I knew how to handle him.
Queer?
Yeah. I guess he wasn't very happy those last years  he didn't have much reason to be 
That's the whole works, right up to date.
Sentimental fellow, aren't you?
Yes and no.
Well, thanks a lot.
See what I mean? He was a little gone in the head  the last couple of years, anyway  but I knew how to handle him. That "Rosebud"  that don't mean anything. I heard him say it. He just said "Rosebud" and then he dropped that glass ball and it broke on the floor. He didn't say anything about that, so I knew he was dead  He said all kind of things I couldn't make out. But I knew how to take care of him.
You can go on asking questions if you want to.
We're leaving tonight. As soon as they're through photographing the stuff 
What do you think all that is worth, Mr. Thompson?
Millions  if anybody wants it.
The banks are out of luck, eh?
Oh, I don't know. They'll clear all right.
Yes, and maybe he didn't.
Ask the question anyway, Thompson! Build the picture around the question, even if you can't answer it.
I know, but 
All we saw on that screen was a big American 
Thompson!
Yes, sir.
Hold this thing up for a week. Two weeks if you have to...
But don't you think if we release it now  he's only been dead four days  it might be better than if 
Nothing is ever better than finding out what makes people tick. Go after the people that knew Kane well. That manager of his  the little guy, Bernstein, those two wives, all the people who knew him, had worked for him, who loved him, who hated his guts  I don't mean go through the City Directory, of course 
I'll get to it right away, Mr. Rawlston.
Good!
Yeah, all in crates.
There's a part of a Scotch castle over there, but we haven't bothered to unwrap it.
I wonder how they put all those pieces together?
Anything and everything  he was a regular crow.
I wonder  You put all this together  the palaces and the paintings and the toys and everything  what would it spell?
Or Rosebud? How about it, Jerry?
Turn that thing off, will you? It's driving me nuts! What's Rosebud?
Kane's last words, aren't they, Jerry? That was Jerry's angle, wasn't it, Jerry? Did you ever find out what it means, Jerry?
I want you to stop all this nonsense, Jim.
The Bank's decision in all matters concerning his education, his place of residence and similar subjects will be final.
I want you to stop all this nonsense, Jim.
We will assume full management of the Colorado Lode  of which you, Mrs. Kane, are the sole owner.
Where do I sign, Mr. Thatcher?
Right here, Mrs. Kane.
Charles, my name is Mr. Thatcher 
This is Mr. Thatcher, Charles.
How do you do, Charles?
Mr. Leland, you were 
You don't happen to have a cigar, do you? I've got a young physician  must remember to ask to see his license  the odds are a hundred to one he hasn't got one  who thinks I'm going to stop smoking... I changed the subject, didn't I? Dear, dear! What a disagreeable old man I've become. You want to know what I think of Charlie Kane? Well  I suppose he has some private sort of greatness. But he kept it to himself. He never  gave himself away  He never gave anything away. He just  left you a tip. He had a generous mind. I don't suppose anybody ever had so many opinions. That was because he had the power to express them, and Charlie lived on power and the excitement of using it  But he didn't believe in anything except Charlie Kane. He never had a conviction in his life. I guess he died without one  That must have been pretty unpleasant. Of course, a lot of us check out with no special conviction about death. But we do know what we're leaving ... we believe in something. You're absolutely sure you haven't got a cigar?
Sorry, Mr. Leland.
Never mind  Bernstein told you about the first days at the office, didn't he? Well, Charlie was a bad newspaper man even then. He entertained his readers, but he never told them the truth.
Maybe you could remember something that 
I can remember everything. That's my curse, young man. It's the greatest curse that's ever been inflicted on the human race. Memory  I was his oldest friend. As far as I was concerned, he behaved like swine. Maybe I wasnt' his friend. If I wasn't, he never had one. Maybe I was what nowadays you call a stooge 
What's this?
It's a letter from her lawyers.
David, Grobleski & Davis  My dear Rawlston 
Rawlston is my boss.
Oh, yes. I know about Mr. Rawlston.
He knows the first Mrs. Kane socially  That's the answer we got.
I am in receipt of your favor of yesterday. I beg you to do me the courtesy of accepting my assurance that Mrs. Whitehall cannot be induced to contribute any more information on the career of Charles Foster Kane. She has authorized me to state on previous occasions that she regards their brief marriage as a distateful episode in her life that she prefers to forget. With assurances of the highest esteem 
Brief marriage! Ten years!
Was he in love?
He married for love  That's why he did everything. That's why he went into politics. It seems we weren't enough. He wanted all the voters to love him, too. All he really wanted out of life was love. That's Charlie's story  it's the story of how he lost it. You see, he just didn't have any to give. He loved Charlie Kane, of course, very dearly  and his mother, I guess he always loved her. As for Emily  well, all I can tell you is Emily's story as she told it to me, which probably isn't fair  there's supposed to be two sides to every story  and I guess there are. I guess there's more than two sides 
Well, that's about all there is  and I'm getting chills. Hey, nurse! Five years ago, he wrote from that place of his down South   you know. Shangrila? El Dorado? Sloppy Joe's? What's the name of that place? You know... All right. Xanadu. I knew what it was all the time. You caught on, didn't you?
Yes.
I guess maybe I'm not as hard to see through as I think. Anyway, I never even answered his letter. Maybe I should have. I guess he was pretty lonely down there those last years. He hadn't finished it when she left him  he never finished it  he never finished anything. Of course, he built it for her 
That must have been love.
I don't know. He was disappointed in the world. So he built one of his own  An absolute monarchy  It was something bigger than an opera house anyway  Nurse! Say, I'll tell you one thing you can do for me, young fellow.
Sure.
On your way out, stop at a cigar store, will you, and send me up a couple of cigars?
Sure, Mr. Leland. I'll be glad to.
Hey, Nurse!
I'll sign those papers 
You people seem to forget that I'm the boy's father.
It's going to be done exactly the way I've told Mr. Thatcher 
If I want to, I can go to court. A father has a right to 
Well, let's hope it's all for the best.
It is. Go on, Mr. Thatcher 
Mr. Thatcher is going to take you on a trip with him tonight, Charles. You'll be leaving on Number Ten.
That's the train with all the lights.
You're going to live with Mr. Thatcher from now on, Charlie! You're going to be rich. Your Ma figures  that is, er  she and I have decided that this isn't the place for you to grow up in. You'll probably be the richest man in America someday and you ought to 
You won't be lonely, Charles...
Sorry, Mr. Thatcher! What the kid needs is a good thrashing!
That's what you think, is it, Jim?
Yes.
Maybe we'd better wait for more word on the President's condition.
What do you mean by that?
We'll withdraw support completely. Anything else?
Mr. Leland sent back that check.
What check?
You made it out to him last week after he left for Chicago.
Oh, yes, the bonus.
It was for twentyfive thousand dollars.
It does seem too good to be true, doesn't it, Mr. Bernstein?
Rogers isn't even pretending. He isn't just scared anymore. He's sick. Frank Norris told me last night he hasn't known Rogers to be that worried in twentyfive years.
I think it's beginning to dawn on Mr. Rogers that I mean what I say. With Mr. Rogers out of the way, Reilly, I think we may really begin to hope for a good government in this state. Well, Mr. Bernstein?
Poor Mr. Carter!
What makes those fellows think that a newspaper is something rigid, something inflexible, that people are supposed to pay two cents for 
Tired?
It's been a tough day.
A wasted day.
I've changed the front page a little, Mr. Bernstein. That's not enough  There's something I've got to get into this paper besides pictures and print  I've got to make the "New York Enquirer" as important to New York as the gas in that light.
What're you going to do, Charlie?
That's the second sentence you've started with "I" 
People are going to know who's responsible. And they're going to get the news  the true news  quickly and simply and entertainingly. And no special interests will be allowed to interfere with the truth of that news.
The "Chronicle" is a good newspaper.
It's a good idea for a newspaper. Four hundred sixy thousand.
Well, gentlemen, are we going to war?
Our readers are, anyway, I don't know about the rest of the country.
It'll be our first foreign war in fifty years, Brad. We'll cover it the way the "Hickville Gazette" covers the church social! The names of everybody there; what they wore; what they ate; who won the prizes; who gave the prizes  I tell you, Brad, I envy you. By Bradford Leland, the "Enquirer's" Special Correspondent at the Front. I'm almost tempted 
But there is no Front, Charlie. There's a very doubtful civil war. Besides, I don't want the job.
All right, Brad, all right  you don't have to be a war correspondent unless you want to  I'd want to. Hello, Georgie.
Charles, I tell you there is no war! There's a condition that should be remedied  but between that and a 
How would the "Enquirer" look with no news about this nonexistent war  with Benton, Pulitzer and Heart devoting twenty columns a day to it?
They do it only because you do!
And I do it because they do it, and they do it  it's a vicious circle, isn't it? I'm going over to Georgie's, Brad  you know, Georgie, don't you?
Say, Brad. I've got an idea.
Yes?
I mean I've got a job for you.
Good.
You don't want to be a war correspondent  how about being a dramatic critic?
I'd like that.
You start tomorrow night. Richard Carl in "The Spring Chicken." I'll get us some girls. You get tickets. A drama critic gets them free, you know. Rector's at seven?
Charlie 
Yes?
It doesn't make any difference about me, but one of these days you're going to find out that all this charm of yours won't be enough 
You're wrong. It does make a difference to you  Rector's, Brad? Come to think of it, I don't blame you for not wanting to be a war correspondent. You won't miss anything. It isn't much of a war. Besides, they tell me there isn't a decent restaurant on the whole island.
Take dictation  Front page editorial  "This afternoon a great man was assassinated. He was the President of the United States "
Charlie 
Yes?
Do you think you're the one who should call him a great man?
Why not?
Why not? Well  nobody's a great man in your estimation until he's dead.
What do you mean by that?
Yesterday morning you called the President a traitor. What do you think that crowd is doing down there? They think you murdered him.
Because the crackpot who did it had a copy of the "Enquirer" in his pocket?
 and that copy of the "Enquirer" said the President should be killed.
I said treason was a capital offense punishable by death 
You've said a lot of things about the President in the last few months.
They're true! Everything I said! Witholding that veto was treason!
Charlie!
Oil belonging to the people of the United States was leased out for a song to a gang of highpressure crooks  Nobody can blame me because 
Look out that window.
There are the people of the United States, and they are blaming you  Oh, I know it doesn't make any sense, but at least you can learn a lesson from it.
What lesson? Not to expose fraud when I see it? Not to fight for the right of the people to own their own property? Run it the way I said, Reilly  "This afternoon a great man was assassinated "
Charlie! Now you're not making sense.
I don't have to. I run a newspaper with half a million readers and they're getting a martyred president this morning with their breakfast. I can't help that. Besides, they all know I'm married to his niece. I've got to think of her.
What?
I've got to think of Emily 
I'd like to talk to you about that.
Go ahead.
First of all 
What's wrong, Brad?
I'm drunk.
I'll get you some coffee.
First of all, I will not write a good review of a play because somebody paid a thousand dollars for an advertisement in the "Enquirer."
That's just a little promotion scheme. Nobody expects you  Mike, will you try and get Mr. Leland some coffee?
Charlie, it's just no go. We can't agree anymore. I wish you'd let me go to Chicago.
Why, Brad?
I want to be transferred to the new paper. You've been saying yourself you wish you had somebody to  That's not what I wanted to talk about.
I'll tell you what I'll do, Brad  I'll get drunk, too  maybe that'll help.
No, that won't help. Besides, you never get drunk. I wanted to talk about you and Emily.
All right.
She's going to leave you 
I don't think so, Brad. We've just had word that the President is out of danger. It seems I didn't kill him after all.
She was going to leave you anyway 
Emily's going south next week with the child. As far as anybody's to know, it's a holiday. When they get back 
Brad, you are drunk.
Sure I am. She wants full custody of the child no matter what happens. If you won't agree to that, she'll apply for a divorce regardless of the President's wishes. I can't tell her she's wrong, because she isn't wrong 
Why is she leaving me?
She hasn't any friends left sine you started this oil business, and she never sees you.
Do you think the "Enquirer" shouldn't have campaigned against the oil leases?
You might have made the whole thing less personal!
There's no reason why this  this savage personal note 
The personal note is all there is to it. It's all there ever is to it. It's all there every is to anything! Stupidity in our government, complacency and selfsatisfaction and unwillingness to believe that anything done by a certain class of people can be wrong  you can't fight those things impersonally. They're not impersonal crimes against people. They're being done by actual persons  with actual names and positions and  the right of the American people to own their own country is not an academic issue, Brad, that you debate  and then the judges retire to return a verdict and the winners give a dinner for the losers.
You almost convince me. I'm just drunk enough to tell you the truth. I have to be a little drunk for that because I'm a coward. You know that. That's why you keep me around. You only associate with your inferiors, Charlie. I guess that's why you ran away from Emily. Because you can't stand the company of your equals. You don't like to admit they exist  the other big people in your world are dead. I told you that.
You talk about the people of the United States as though they belonged to you. When you find out they don't think they are, you'll lose interest. You talk about giving them their rights as though you could make a present of liberty. Remember the working man? You used to defend him quite a good deal. Well, he's turning into something called organized labor and you don't like that at all. And listen, when your precious underprivileged really get together  that's going to add up to something bigger than  than your privilege and then I don't know what you'll do  sail away to a desert island, probably, and lord it over the monkeys.
Are you finished?
Yes. Now, will you let me go to Chicago?
You're not going to like it in Chicago. They wind comes howling in from the lake. And there's practically no opera season at all  and the Lord only knows whether they've ever heard of Lobster Newburg 
That's all right. What are you going to do about Emily?
Nothing  if she dosen't love me 
You want love on your own terms, don't you, Charlie  Love according to your own rules. And if anything goes wrong and you're hurt  then the game stops, and you've got to be soothed and nursed, no matter what else is happening  and no matter who else is hurt!
It's simpler than that, Brad. A society girl can't stand the gaff, that's all. Other things are important to her  social position, what they're saying on the front porches at Southampton, is it going to be embarrassing to meet somebody or the other at dinner 
She can leave me. As a matter of fact, I've already left her. Don't worry, Brad  I'll live.
I know you will.
Hey, Brad! I've been analyzed an awful lot tonight  let's have another brandy.
You still want to be transferred to the other paper?
Yes.
Well, you've been getting a pretty low salary here in New York. It seems to me that the new dramatic critic of our Chicago paper should get what he's worth.
I couldn't possibly live on as little as that, Charlie. We'll let the salary stay where it is.
Hello, Brad.
Hello, Charlie  I didn't know we were speaking.
Get Dr. Corey.
Yes, sir.
Mrs. Kane would like to see you, Mr. Kane.
All right.
Is Mrs. Kane 
Marie has been packing since morning, Mr. Kane.
Close the door, Raymond.
Yes, sir.
Lock it  and keep it locked.
Raymond 
Yes, sir 
Do you like poetry, Raymond?
Can't say, sir.
Mrs. Kane liked poetry 
Yes, Mr. Kane.
Not my wife  not either of them.
Oh, yes, sir.
Do you know what that is?
It's a wall you bought in China, Mr. Kane.
Persia. It belonged to a king.
How did you get him to part with it, Mr. Kane?
He was dead... That's a poem. Do you know what it means?
No, I don't, Mr. Kane.
I didn't used to be afraid of it.
You goin', Mom?
Your mother won't be going right away, Charles 
Where'm I going?
Is that really your idea of how to run a newspaper?
I don't know how to run a newspaper, Mr. Thatcher. I just try everything I can think of.
"Enemy Armada Off Jersey Coast." You know you haven't the slightest proof that this  this armada  is off the Jersey Coast.
Can you prove it isn't?
You see! There hasn't been a true word 
I think we'll have to send our friend Wheeler a cable, Mr. Bernstein. Of course, we'll have to make it shorter than his, because he's working on an expense account and we're not. Let me see  Mike!
I came to see you, Charles, about your  about the Enquirer's campaign against the Metropolitan Transfer Company.
Won't you step into my office, Mr. Thatcher?
Mr. Thatcher, isn't everything I've been saying in the Enquirer about the traction trust absolutely true?
They're all part of your general attack  your senseless attack  on everything and everybody who's got more than ten cents in his pocket. They're 
The trouble is, Mr. Thatcher, you don't realize you're talking to two people.
As Charles Foster Kane, who has eighty two thousand, six hundred and thirtyone shares of Metropolitan Transfer  you see, I do have a rough idea of my holdings  I sympathize with you. Charles Foster Kane is a dangerous scoundrel, his paper should be run out of town and a committee should be formed to boycott him. You may, if you can form such a committee, put me down for a contribution of one thousand dollars.
Charles, my time is too valuable for me 
On the other hand  I am the publisher of the Enquirer. As such, it is my duty  I'll let you in on a little secret, it is also my pleasure  to see to it that decent, hardworking people of this city are not robbed blind by a group of money mad pirates because, God help them, they have no one to look after their interests! I'll let you in on another little secret, Mr. Thatcher. I think I'm the man to do it. You see, I have money and property 
I happened to see your consolidated statement yesterday, Charles. Could I not suggest to you that it is unwise for you to continue this philanthropic enterprise  this Enquirer  that is costing you one million dollars a year?
You're right. We did lose a million dollars last year.
Impossible! Impossible!
Your job isn't to give Mrs. Kane your opinion of her talents. You're supposed to train her voice. Nothing more.
But, it is impossible. I will be the laughingstock of the musical world! People will say 
If you're interested in what people say, Signor Matisti, I may be able to enlighten you a bit. The newspapers, for instance. I'm an authority on what the papers will say, Signor Matisti, because I own eight of them between here and San Francisco... It's all right, dear. Signor Matisti is going to listen to reason. Aren't you, maestro?
Mr. Kane, how can I persuade you 
You can't.
It is the unanimous opinion of my Cabinent  in which I concur  that the proposed leases are in the best interests of the Governement and the people. You are not, I hope, suggesting that these interests are not indentical?
I'm not suggesting anything, Mr. President! I've come here to tell you that, unless some action is taken promptly  and you are the only one who can take it  the oil that is the property of the people of this country will be turned over for a song to a gang of highpressure crooks!
I must refuse to allow you to continue in this vein, Mr. Kane.
It's the only vein I know. I tell the facts the way I see them. And any man that knows that facts 
I know the facts, Mr. Kane. And I happen to have the incredible insolence to differ with you as to what they mean. You're a man of great talents, Mr. Kane.
Thanks.
I understand that you have political ambitions. Unfortunately, you seem incapable of allowing any other opinion but your own 
I'm much obliged, Mr. President, for your concern about me. However, I happen to be concerned at this moment with the matter of extensive oil lands belonging to the people of the United States, and I say that if this lease goes through, the property of the people of the United States goes into the hands of 
You've made your point perfectly clear, Mr. Kane. Good day.
She doesn't know, Mrs. Kane. She just sent it  because I made her see it wouldn't be smart for her not to send it.
In case you don't know, Emily, this  this gentleman  is 
I'm not a gentleman, Mrs. Kane, and your husband is just trying to be funny calling me one. I don't even know what a gentleman is. You see, my idea of a gentleman, Mrs. Kane  well, if I owned a newspaper and if I didn't like the way somebody else was doing things  some politican, say  I'd fight them with everything I had. Only I wouldn't show him in a convict suit, with stripes  so his children could see the picture in the paper. Or his mother. It's pretty clear  I'm not a gentleman.
Anything you say, Mr. Kane. Only we're talking now about what you are. That's what the note is about, Mrs. Kane. Now I'm going to lay all my cards on the table. I'm fighting for my life. Not just my political life. My life. If your husband is elected governor 
I'm going to be elected governor. And the first thing I'm going to do 
You do anything you want to do. The people of this state can decide which one of us to trust. If you want to know, they've already decided. The election Tuesday'll be only 
Mrs. Kane, I'm not asking you to believe me. I'd like to show you 
You're making a bigger fool of yourself than I thought you would, Mr. Kane. You're licked. Why don't you 
Get out! I've got nothing to talk to you about. If you want to see me, have the Warden write me a letter.
I see!
You're the greatest fool I've ever known, Kane. If it was anybody else, I'd say what's going to happen to you would be a lesson to you. Only you're going to need more than one lesson. And you're going to get more than one lesson.
Don't you worry about me. I'm Charles Foster Kane. I'm no cheap, crooked politician, trying to save himself from the consequences of his crimes 
I can't tell you the things he said, Charlie. You haven't got any idea 
Rogers, I don't think I will postpone doing something about you until I'm elected. To start with, I'll break your neck.
You can't blackmail me, Rogers, you can't 
Charlie, he said, unless you withdrew your name 
Charlie, you're just excited. You don't realize 
I know exactly what I'm doing. Get out!
Get out, both of you!
Charlie, please don't 
What are you waiting here for? Why don't you go?
Ow!
What's the matter with you?
Toothache.
Hmm!
You've got some on your face.
If these sidewalks were kept in condition  instead of the money going to some cheap grafter 
What's funny now?
You are. You look like you've been making mud pies.
Oh!
You're no Venus de Milo.
If you want to come in and wash your face  I can get you some hot water to get that dirt off your trousers 
Thanks.
Hey, you should be more careful. That's my ma and pa.
I'm sorry. They live here, too?
No. They've passed on.
Where's the soap?
In the water.
You're very easily amused.
I always like to see the funny side of things. No sense crying when you don't have to. And you're so funny. Looking at you, I forget all about my toothache.
Oh!
I can't stay here all night chasing your pain away.
I know... But you do look so silly.
Where's the towel?
On the chiffonier. Here.
Thanks.
I've got a brush in the closet. As soon as the mud on your trousers is all dry  you just brush it off.
I'll get these streets fixed, if it's the last thing I do.
A chicken?
No. But you're close.
A rooster?
You're getting farther away all the time. It's a duck.
Excuse me, Mr. Kane. I know this takes a lot of nerve, but  who are you? I mean  I'm pretty ignorant, I guess you caught on to that 
You really don't know who I am?
No. That is, I bet it turns out I've heard your name a million times, only you know how it is 
But you like me, don't you? Even though you don't know who I am?
You've been wonderful! I can't tell you how glad I am you're here, I don't know many people and 
And I know too many people. Obviously, we're both lonely. Would you like to know where I was going tonight  when you ran into me and ruined my Sunday clothes?
I didn't run into you and I bet they're not your Sunday clothes. You've probably got a lot of clothes.
I was only joking! This evening I was on my way to the Western Manhattan Warehouses  in search of my youth.
Who am I? Well, let's see. Charles Foster Kane was born in New Salem, Colorado in eighteen six  I run a couple of newspapers. How about you?
Oh, me 
How old did you say you were?
I didn't say.
I didn't think you did. If you had, I wouldn't have asked you again, because I'd have remembered. How old?
Pretty old. I'll be twentytwo in August.
That's a ripe old age  What do you do?
I work at Seligman's.
Is that what you want to do?
I want to be a singer. I mean, I didn't. Mother did for me.
What happened to the singing? You're not in a show, are you?
Oh, no! Nothing like that. Mother always thought  she used to talk about Grand Opera for me. Imagine! An American girl, for one thing  and then my voice isn't really that kind anyway, it's just that Mother  you know what mothers are like.
Yes 
As a matter of fact, I do sing a little.
Would you sing for me?
Oh, you wouldn't want to hear me sing.
Yes, I would. That's why I asked.
Well, I 
Don't tell me your toothache is bothering you again?
Oh, no, that's all gone.
Then you have no alibi at all. Please sing.
I couldn't make you see how I felt, Charlie. I just couldn't  I couldn't go threw with singing again. You don't know what it means to feel  to know that people  that an audience don't want you. That if you haven't got what they want  a real voice  they just don't care about you. Even when they're polite  and they don't laugh or get restless or  you know... They don't want you. They just 0
That's when you've got to fight them. That's when you've got to make them. That's 
Charlie! I said, what time is it?
Half past eleven.
I mean in New York.
Half past eleven.
At night?
Yes. The bulldog's just gone to press.
Hurray for the bulldog! Half past eleven! The shows have just let out. People are going to night clubs and restaurants. Of course, we're different. We live in a palace  at the end of the world.
You always said you wanted to live in a palace.
Can't we go back, Charlie?
It makes a whole lot more sense than collecting Venuses.
You may be right  I sometimes wonder  but you get into the habit 
It's not a habit. I do it because I like it.
I was referring to myself. I thought we might have a picnic tomorrow  it might be a nice change after the Wild West party tonight. Invite everybody to go to the Everglades 
Invite everybody! Order everybody, you mean, and make them sleep in tents! Who wants to sleep in tents when they have a nice room of their own  with their own bath, where they know where everything is?
I mean it. Oh, I know I always say I mean it, and then I don't  or you get me so I don't do what I say I'm going to  but 
You're in a tent, darling. You're not at home. And I can hear you very well if you just talk in a normal tone of voice.
I'm not going to have my guests insulted, just because you think   if people want to bring a drink or two along on a picnic, that's their business. You've got no right 
I've got more than a right as far as you're concerned, Susan.
Oh, I'm sick and tired of you telling me what I must and what I musn't do!
You're my wife, Susan, and 
I'm not just your wife, I'm a person all by myself  or I ought to be. I was once. Sometimes you get me to believing I never was.
We can discuss all this some other time, Susan. Right now 
I'll discuss what's on my mind when I want to. You're not going to keep on running my life the way you want it.
As far as you're concerned, Susan, I've never wanted anything  I don't want anything now  except what you want.
What you want me to want, you mean. What you've decided I ought to have  what you'd want if you were me. But you've never given me anything that 
Susan, I really think 
Oh, I don't mean the things you've given me  that don't mean anything to you. What's the difference between giving me a bracelet or giving somebody else a hundred thousand dollars for a statue you're going to keep crated up and never look at? It's only money. It doesn't mean anything. You're not really giving anything that belongs to you, that you care about.
Susan, I want you to stop this. And right now!
Well, I'm not going to stop it. I'm going to say exactly what I think. You've never given me anything. You've tried to buy me into giving you something. You're   it's like you were bribing me! That's what it's been from the first moment I met you. No matter how much it cost you  your time, your money  that's what you've done with everybody you've ever known. Tried to bribe them!
Susan!
You're talking an incredible amount of nonsense, Susan. Whatever I do  I do  because I love you.
Love! You don't love anybody! Me or anybody else! You want to be loved  that's all you want! I'm Charles Foster Kane. Whatever you want  just name it and it's yours! Only love me! Don't expect me to love you 
You'll never have another chance to hit me again. I never knew till this minute 
Susan, it seems to me 
Don't tell me you're sorry.
I'm not sorry.
I'm going to leave you.
No, you're not.
Yes.
Don't you realize that everybody here is going to know about this? That you've packed your bags and ordered the car and 
 And left? Of course they'll hear. I'm not saying goodbye  except to you  but I never imagined that people wouldn't know.
I won't let you go.
You can't stop me.
Goodbye, Charlie.
Don't go, Susan.
Let's not start all over again, Charlie. We've said everything that can be said.
Susan, don't go! Susan, please!
What do you expect me to do? What in the world 
Charles.
They won't do anything to Junior, darling. Anonymous letter writers  I've got guards in front of the house, and I'm going to arrange 
Please don't talk any more, Charles.
Have they heard from father yet? Has he seen 
I've tried to tell you, Emily. The President's going to be all right. He had a comfortable night. There's no danger of any kind.
Here I am, darling... Darling!... Darling, it's all right... Mother's here.
Emily  you musn't leave me now  you can't do that to me.
They won't hurt you, darling. Mother's with you! Mother's looking after you!
I'm sending Junior home in the car, Charles  with Oliver 
But I'd arranged to go home with you myself.
There's a call I want you to make with me, Charles.
It can wait.
No, it can't. Good night, darling.
What's this all about, Emily? I've had a very tiring day and 
It may not be about anything at all.
I intend to find out.
I insist on being told exactly what you have in mind.
I'm going to   185 West 74th Street.
Oh!!
You're a cheap, crooked grafter  and your concern for your children and your mother 
You don't think I'm going to let this blackmailer intimidate me, do you?
I don't see what else you can do, Charles. If he's right  and the papers publish this story he has 
Oh, they'll publish it all right. But that's not going to stop me 
Charles, this  this story  doesn't concern only you. I'll be in it, too, won't I? And Junior?
I suppose so, but  I'm not afraid of the story. You can't tell me that the voters of this state 
I'm not interested in the voters of this state right now. I am interested in  well, Junior, for one thing.
Oh yes, there is.
I don't think so. Are you coming, Charles?
No.
There's only one person in the world to decide what I'm going to do  and that's me. And if you think  if any of you think 
You decided what you were going to do, Charles  some time ago. You can't always have it your own way, regardless of anything else that may have happened. Come on, Charles.
Go on! Get out! I can fight this thing all alone!
Charles, if you don't listen to reason, it may be too late 
Too late for what? Too late for you and this  this public thief to take the love of the people of this state away from me? Well, you won't do it, I tell you. You won't do it!
Hello, Brad 
Emily 
I'm sorry I sent for you, Brad  I didn't 
Chicago is pretty close to New York nowadays  only twenty hours 
Almost two to one 
I'm surprised he got the votes he did.
Emily!
Why should anyone vote for him? He's made it quite clear to the people what he thinks of them. Children  to be told one thing one day, something else the next, as the whim seizes him. And they're supposed to be grateful and love and adore him  because he sees to it that they get cheap ice and only pay a nickel in the street cars.
Emily, you're being  a little unfair  You know what I think of Charles' behavior  about your personal lives 
There aren't any personal lives for people like us. He made that very clear to me nine years ago  If I'd thought of my life with Charles as a personal life, I'd have left him then 
I know that, Emily 
Maybe I should have  the first time he showed me what a mad dog he really was.
Emily, you 
Brad, I'm  I'm not an old woman yet 
It's  all over 
I know it is, Brad 
He's paying for it, Emily. Those returns tonight  he's finished. Politically   socially, everywhere, I guess. I don't know about the papers, but 
If you're asking me to sympathize with him, Brad, you're wasting your time. There's only one person I'm sorry for, as a matter of fact. That  that shabby little girl. I'm really sorry for her, Brad.
How do you do? I came here  and I made Mr. Kane come with me... because I recieved this note 
I made Miss  Miss Alexander send you the note. She was a little unwilling at first  but she did it.
Maybe you can do it and maybe you can't, Mr. Kane.
Charles! Your  your breaking this man's neck  would scarcely explain this note  Serious consequences for Mr. Kane  for myself, and for my son. What does this note mean, Miss 
Let him finish, Charles.
I'm protecting myself every way I know how, Mrs. Kane. This last week, I finally found out how I can stop your husband from being elected. If the people of this state learn what I found out this week, he wouldn't have a chance to  he couldn't be elected Dog Catcher. Well, what I'm interested in is seeing that he's not elected. I don't care whether they know what I know about him. Let him keep right on being the Great, Noble, Moral  Champeen of the people. Just as long as 
I think I understand, Mr. Rogers, but I wonder if 
What story, Mr. Rogers?
The story about him and Miss Alexander, Mrs. Kane.
You don't have to show me anything, Mr. Rogers. I believe you.
I'd rather Mr. Kane withdrew without having to get the story published. Not that I care about him. But I'd be better off that way   and so would you, Mrs. Kane.
The nurse has complete instructions, but if you care to talk to me at any time, I should be only too glad  I shall be here in the morning.
Thank you. I can't imagine how Mrs. Kane came to make such a silly mistake. The sedative Dr. Wagner gave her is in a somewhat larger bottle  I suppose the strain of preparing for her trip has excited and confused her.
I'm sure that's it.
There are no objections to my staying here with her, are there?
Not at all. I'd like the nurse to be here, too.
Of course.
Mr. Kane, this is a surprise!
We've got a nice plant here.
Was the show covered by every department?
Exactly according to your instructions, Mr. Kane. We've got two spreads of pictures.
And the notice?
Yes  Mr. Kane.
Is it good?
Yes, Mr. kane.
But there's another one still to come  the dramatic notice.
It isn't finished?
No, Mr. Kane.
That's Leland, isn't it?
Yes, Mr. Kane.
Has he said when he'll finish?
We haven't heard from him.
He used to work fast  didn't he, Mr. Bernstein?
Welcome, Mr. Kane, to the "Enquirer." I am Herbert Carter.
Thank you, Mr Carter. This is Mr. Leland.
How do you do, Mr. Leland?
Are they standing for me?
I thought it would be a nice gesture  the new publisher 
Ask them to sit down.
You may resume your work, gentlemen. I didn't know your plans and so I was unable to make any preparations.
I don't my plans myself.
Mr. Carter, this is Mr. Bernstein. Mr. Bernstein is my general manager.
How do you do, Mr. Bernstein?
You've got a private office here, haven't you?
My little sanctum is at your disposal. But I don't think I understand 
I'm going to live right here. As long as I have to.
But a morning newspaper, Mr. Kane. After all, we're practically closed twelve hours a day  except for the business offices 
That's one of the things I think must be changed, Mr. Carter. The news goes on for twentyfour hours a day.
I'm not criticizing, Mr. Carter, but here's what I mean. There's a front page story in the "Chronicle," and a picture  of a woman in Brooklyn who is missing. Probably murdered. A Mrs. Harry Silverstone. Why didn't the "Enquirer" have that this morning?
Because we're running a newspaper, Mr. Kane, not a scandal sheet.
I'm still hungry, Brad. Let's go to Rector's and get something decent. The "Chronicle" has a twocolumn headline, Mr. Carter. Why haven't we?
There is no news big enough.
If the headline is big enough, it makes the new big enough. The murder of Mrs. Harry Silverstone 
As a matter of fact, we sent a man to the Silverstone home yesterday afternoon. Our man even arrived before the "Chronicle" reporter. And there's no proof that the woman was murdered  or even that she's dead.
The "Chronicle" doesn't say she's murdered, Mr. Carter. It says the neighbors are getting suspicious.
It's not our function to report the gossip of housewives. If we were interested in that kind of thing, Mr. Kane, we could fill the paper twice over daily 
That's the kind of thing we are going to be interested in from now on, Mr. Carter. Right now, I wish you'd send your best man up to see Mr. Silverstone. Have him tell Mr. Silverstone if he doesn't produce his wife at once, the "Enquirer" will have him arrested. Have him tell Mr. Silverstone he's a detective from the Central Office. If Mr. Silverstone asks to see his badge, your man is to get indignant and call Mr. Silverstone an anarchist. Loudly, so that the neighbors can hear.
Really, Mr. Kane, I can't see the function of a respectable newspaper 
But, Mr. Kane 
That'll be all today, Mr. Carter. You've been most understanding. Good day, Mr. Carter!
I've been a newspaperman my whole life and I don't intend   if it's your intention that I should continue to be harassed by this  this  I warn you, Mr. Kane, it would go against my grain to desert you when you need me so badly  but I would feel obliged to ask that my resignation be accepted.
It is accepted, Mr. Carter, with assurances of my deepest regard.
But Mr. Kane, I meant 
I'm not guaranteeing a thing, Mr. Bernstein. You people work too fast for me! Talk about new brooms!
Who said anything about brooms?
We'll be on the street soon, Charlie  another ten minutes.
It's three hours and fifty minutes late  but we did it 
Wasted?
Charlie?!
You just made the paper over four times today, Mr. Kane. That's all 
Sixtytwo thousand 
That looks pretty nice.
Do you, Mr. Leland?
Certainly not.
Isn't it wonderful? Such a party!
Yes.
What's the matter?
Mr. Bernstein, these men who are now with the "Enquirer"  who were with the "Chronicle" until yesterday  weren't they just as devoted to the "Chronicle" kind of paper as they are now to  our kind of paper?
Sure. They're like anybody else. They got work to do. They do it. Only they happen to be the best men in the business.
Do we stand for the same things that the "Chronicle" stands for, Mr. Bernstein?
Certainly not. So what's that got to do with it? Mr. Kane, he'll have them changed to his kind of newspapermen in a week.
Probably. There's always a chance, of course, that they'll change Mr. Kane  without his knowing it.
Do you, Mr. Leland?
Certainly not.
Mr. Leland, why didn't you go to Europe with him? He wanted you to. He said to me just yesterday 
I wanted him to have fun  and with me along 
Mr. Bernstein, I wish you'd let me ask you a few questions, and answer me truthfully.
Don't I always? Most of the time?
Mr. Bernstein, am I a stuffed shirt? Am I a horsefaced hypocrite? Am I a New England schoolmarm?
Yes.
If you thought I'd answer different from what Mr. Kane tells you  well, I wouldn't.
LELAND +++$+++
Well, he'll be coming back in September. The Majestic. I got the reservations. It gets in on the ninth.
September the ninth?
What's happened?
I'm all right, Mr. Leland. Only there was some fellows out front that thought they ought to take things up with me. I learned 'em! Didn't I, officer?
If you hadn't come along and protected me when you did, I'd have killed them fellows.
Go and get yourself washed up, Mr. Bernstein. There doesn't seem to be an serious injury.
Not to me. But you will let that cop go home with Mr. Kane, won't you?
Yes, Mr. Bernstein.
Hello, Mr. Leland.
Hello, Bernstein.
Where is it  where's my notice? I've got to finish it!
Mr. Kane is finishing it.
Kane? Charlie? Where is he?
I suppose he's fixing it up  I know I'd never get that through.
Mr. Kane is finishing your piece the way you started it.
Who's a busy man? Me? I'm Chairman of the Board. I got nothing but time ... What do you want to know?
Well, Mr. Bernstein, you were with Mr. Kane from the very beginning 
From before the beginning, young fellow. And now it's after the end. Anything you want to know about him  about the paper 
 We thought maybe, if we can find out what he meant by that last word  as he was dying 
That Rosebud? Maybe some girl? There were a lot of them back in the early days, and 
Not some girl he knew casually and then remembered after fifty years, on his death bed 
You're pretty young, Mr.  Mr. Thompson. A fellow will remember things you wouldn't think he'd remember. You take me. One day, back in 1896, I was crossing over to Jersey on a ferry and as we pulled out, there was another ferry pulling in   and on it, there was a girl waiting to get off. A white dress she had on  and she was carrying a white pastrol  and I only saw her for one second and she didn't see me at all  but I'll bet a month hasn't gone by since that I haven't thought of that girl. See what I mean? Well, so what are you doing about this "Rosebud," Mr. Thompson.
I'm calling on people who knew Mr. Kane. I'm calling on you.
Who else you been to see?
Well, I went down to Atlantic City 
Susie? I called her myself the day after he died. I thought maybe somebody ought to... She couldn't even come to the 'phone.
You know why? She was so 
Sure, sure.
I'm going back there.
Who else did you see?
Nobody else, but I've been through that stuff of Walter Thatcher's. That journal of his 
Thatcher! That man was the biggest darn fool I ever met 
He made an awful lot of money.
It's not trick to make an awful lot of money if all you want is to make a lot of money. Thatcher!
He finished it. He wrote the worst notice I ever read about the girl he loved. We ran it in every paper.
I guess Mr. Kane didn't think so well of Susie's art anyway.
He thought she was great, Mr. Thompson. He really believed that. He put all his ambition on that girl. After she came along, he never really cared for himself like he used to. Oh, I don't blame Susie 
Well, then, how could he write that roast? The notices in the Kane papers were always very kind to her.
Oh, yes. He saw to that. I tell you, Mr. Thompson, he was a hard man to figure out. He had that funny sense of humor. And then, too, maybe he thought by finishing that piece he could show Leland he was an honest man. You see, Leland didn't think so. I guess he showed him all right. He's a nice fellow, but he's a dreamer. They were always together in those early days when we just started the Enquirer.
The way things turned out, I don't need to tell you  Miss Emily Norton was no rosebud!
It didn't end very well, did it?
It ended  Then there was Susie  that ended, too. I guess he didn't make her very happy  You know, I was thinking  that Rosebud you're trying to find out about 
Yes 
Maybe that was something he lost. Mr. Kane was a man that lost  almost everything he had  You ought to talk to Bradford Leland. He could tell you a lot. I wish I could tell you where Leland is, but I don't know myself. He may be out of town somewhere  he may be dead.
In case you'd like to know, Mr. Bernstein, he's at the Huntington Memorial Hospital on 180th Street.
You don't say! Why I had no idea 
Nothing particular the matter with him, they tell me. Just 
Just old age. It's the only disease, Mr. Thompson, you don't look forward to being cured of. You ought to see Mr. Leland. There's a whole lot of things he could tell you  if he wanted to.
Go in and ask him to hurry.
Well, why don't you, Mr. Bernstein? You know Mr. Leland.
I might make him nervous.
You and Leland and Mr. Kane  you were great friends back in the old days, I understand.
That's right. They called us the "Three Musketeers."
He's a great guy  Leland. Why'd he ever leave New York?
That's a long story.
Yes. I thought it was a good idea. We've covered it from the news end, of course.
And the social. How about the music notice? You got that in?
Oh, yes, it's already made up. Our Mr. Mervin wrote a small review.
Enthusiastic?
Yes, very! Naturally.
Well, well  isn't that nice?
Mr. Bernstein, Mr. Thatcher 
How are you, Mr. Thatcher?
That's all right. We have no secrets from our readers. Mr. Thatcher is one of our most devoted readers, Mr. Bernstein. He knows what's wrong with every issue since I've taken charge. What's the cable?
The food is marvelous in Cuba the senoritas are beautiful stop I could send you prose poems of palm trees and sunrises and tropical colors blending in far off landscapes but don't feel right in spending your money for this stop there's no war in Cuba regards Wheeler.
That's fine, Mr. Kane.
I rather like it myself. Send it right away.
He sure did, Mr. Kane.
Where is he?
Mr. Kane 
That's all right, Mr. Bernstein.
Hey, Brad! Brad! He ain't been drinking before, Mr. Kane. Never. We would have heard.
What does it say there?
"Miss Susan Alexander, a pretty but hopelessly incompetent amateur   last night opened the new Chicago Opera House in a performance of  of " I can't pronounce that name, Mr. Kane.
Thais.
"Her singing, happily, is no concern of this department. Of her acting, it is absolutely impossible to..."
Go on!
That's all there is.
Of her acting, it is absolutely impossible to say anything except that it represents a new low... Have you got that, Mr. Bernstein? In the opinion of this reviewer 
I didn't see that.
It isn't here, Mr. Bernstein. I'm dictating it.
I can't take shorthand.
Get me a typewriter. I'll finish the notice.
I've just made a shocking discovery. The "Enquirer" is without a telephone. Have two installed at once!
I ordered six already this morning! Got a discount!
Three cents.
Two cents.
This is all figured at three cents a copy.
Refigure it, Mr. Bernstein, at two cents.
All right, but I'll keep these figures, too, just in case.
Ready for dinner, Brad?
Mr. Leland, if Mr. Kane, he should decide to drop the price to one cent, or maybe even he should make up his mind to give the paper away with a halfpound of tea  you'll just hold him until I get back, won't you?
It's a saying, Mr. Bernstein. A new broom sweeps clean.
Oh!
My Declaration of Principles  Don't smile, Brad  Take dictation, Mr. Bernstein 
I can't take shorthand, Mr. Kane 
I'll write it myself.
You don't wanta make any promises, Mr. Kane, you don't wanta keep.
These'll be kept. I'll provide the people of this city with a daily paper that will tell all the news honestly. I will also provide them 
Let's hope they like it there.
From the Chronicle Building that sign is the biggest thing you can see  every floor guaranteed  let's hope it bothers them  it cost us enough.
Look at that.
Say, with them fellows   it's no trick to get circulation.
You're right, Mr. Bernstein.
You know how long it took the "Chronicle" to get that staff together? Twenty years.
I know.
Gentlemen of the "Enquirer"! This has, I think, been a fitting welcome to those distinguished journalists  Mr. Reilly in particular  who are the latest additions to our ranks. It will make them happy to learn that the "Enquirer's" circulation this morning passed the two hundred thousand mark.
Two hundred and one thousand, six hundred and fortyseven.
But please, Mr. Kane, don't buy any more paintings. Nine Venuses already we got, twentysix Virgins  two whole warehouses full of stuff 
I promise not to bring any more Venuses and not to worry  and not to try to get in touch with any of the papers 
Ask them to sit down, Mr. Bernstein.
Sit down, everybody  for heaven's sake!
So then, tonight, we go over everything thoroughly, eh? Especially the new papers 
We certainly do. Vacation's over  starting right after dinner. But right now  that lady over there   that's the new society editor, I take it? You think I could interrupt her a moment, Mr. Bernstein?
Huh? Oh, I forgot  you've been away so long I forgot about your joking 
It's wonderful, Mr. Kane. Wonderful. Wonderful.
You don't really think so?
I do. I do. I mean, since you're running for Governor  and you want to be elected  I think it's wonderful you're going to be elected. Only   Can I say something?
Please, Mr. Bernstein.
Well, the way I look at it   You want to know what I really think would be wonderful?
Don Ciccio, I've got an idea...You remember that old abandoned movie house where they're supposed to build those lowrent houses?
So what's that got to do with it?
The projector's all rusty, but I could fix it in two or three days. Give the place a good cleaning, put in some seats and bring in a projectionist and we'll show Catene in two houses.
What the fuck you talking about? You getting into the act too, Toto? Titanus has trouble giving me even one copy and I have to say thanks! If I ask for two, the least they'll do is cut off my head and play ball with it!
Toto, this is no film for the common herd. One day'll be more than enough...So tonight, please set up tomorrow's film, so the projectionist who is coming will find it ready.
OK...
How long's it been shut?
Six years ago this May. No one came any more. You "know better than me, Mr. Di Vita, the crisis, television, videos. By now the movie business is only a dream. The city's bought it now to make a new parking lot. Next Saturday they're tearing it down...A pity!...
But why do you call me 'Mr. Di Vita'? It didn't used to be that way...
Well, it's hard to call an important person by his first name. But if it really matters to you, I'11 call you... Toto!...
I don't remember him any moreMa, where's Russia?
It takes years to get there. And years to come back...Now go to bed, Toto, it's late.
I've been looking for you all day. Did you buy the milk?
No...
Then where's the money?
Somebody stole it.
Daddy's not coming back...He's dead.
It's not true! No! It's not true!!! I'll show you he's coming back!
Lia'll be so glad to see you, you'll see. And you won't recognize the kids any more, they're grown up by now.
They're always writing to me saying they want to come to Rome!
See how pretty the house is? We did everything over. If it hadn't been for you! Come, I have a surprise.... You must be tired. If you want to rest, there's time before the funeral.
No, Mamma, it only takes an hour by air, you know.
You shouldn't tell me that now. After all these years! I put all your things in here. Go in, go in...
No...It's nothing to do with you. It's just that I was scared of coming back. Now, after all these years, I thought I was strong, that I had forgotten lots of things. Instead, I find it's quite the opposite, as if I had never left. And yet, I look at Lia and feel as if I didn't know her, and you, Mamma...I abandoned you, ran away like a thief, thought only of myself, and never gave you an explanation...
And I never asked for one! You have nothing to explain. I always thought that what you did was right, and that was that. With no beating around the bush... Only one thing made me suffer: bolting the door shut before going to bed at night...
You never used to do that!
My name's Salvatore...And yours?
Elena. My name's Elena.
Hi, Elena!
Hi. Why are you running?
No particular reason... Nice day, huh?
Yes, nice day. ...I've got to go now. Byebye.
Byebye, Elena. ...What an idiot! What an idiot! 'Nice day'! Christ!!
Father, I have sinned...
We'll talk about that later.
But...who...
Sssssh, Be quiet, pretend everything's normal. I'm Salvatore.
I don't care. I'll wait.
For what?
For you to fall in love with me too. Listen carefully. Every night, when I get off work, I'll come and wait beneath your window. Every night. When you change your mind, open your window. That's all. I'll understand...
You have a great future as a driver. If they don't arrest you first!!
That's nothing to do with it, it's the car that's still being run in...
Elena!...But when...
I got back today. You can't imagine the excuses I had to make up to be here...
So what'd they say?
The army says that, as a war orphan, I don't have to serve in the military, but nothing can be done. It's a bureaucratic error. I have to leave. Day after tomorrow morning. They're sending me to Rome. But they'll discharge me ten days later. Let's go...
No, Salvatore. You'd better go. It's my father.
Good, this way we can finally talk. I'll convince him this time.
He won't be convinced, Salvatore. He has other plans for me.
Who?
The son of one of his colleagues. Don't act that way. We'll talk about it later. Wait for me Thursday at the Cinema Paradiso. I'll be coming with the five o'clock bus.
You're still beautiful...
Don't be silly...I'm old. Don't look at me like that, please. Why'd you come back?
Alfredo died. Do you remember him?
Of course I remember him. I'm sorry. You were terribly fond of him.
I saw your daughter. She's beautiful! Who knows how many Salvatores must be running after her...
One or two. Bur there're not all that many Salvatores. I've got a son, too...he's older. And you, do you have children?
No. And I'm not married. Are you happy?
All things considered, yes. Even if it wasn't what I dreamt of then...
My husband...you know him.
Sure, sure! Boccia... What's he do?
Politics. He's the district representative. We met at the University in Pisa.
But I've never forgotten you, Elena!
Nor have I. Even though you disappeared... But what's the point of talking about it? We risk being pathetic and ridiculous. You still live in Rome?
It's the first time I've had to chance to tell the story. I never mentioned it to anybody.
Alfredo, damn him! He cast his spell on you too!
I told him I'd take his advice. But before I went away I left you that note... I was on my way down the stairs...
Oh, how I looked for you, Elena! You'll never know. I wrote, telephoned, nothing. Nobody ever answered. But I dreamt of you for years! That's why I went away...and never came back here. Even as the years passed, in all the women I met, I was only looking for you. I had success it's true, but there was always something missing... I'd never have imagined that all this had to end because of the man who was like a father to me. A crazy lunatic!
He wasn't crazy. In the beginning I was upset. I think I really hated him. But then, with time, I understood what he said...and your silence too.
But I never saw that note! I must have covered it with my hand, without realizing it, that's the only explanation...
What difference does it make to find an explanation? That's the way it went. But Alfredo didn't betray you, he was the only one who really understood you. Salvatore, if you had chosen to be with me, you'd have never made your films. And that would have been a pity! Because they're wonderful, I've seen them all. But you shouldn't have gone and changed your name. You should have kept your own.
No, Salvatore...there is no future. There's only the past. Even meeting last night was nothing but a dream, a beautiful dream. We never did it when we were kids, remember? Now that it's happened, I don't think there could have been a better ending.
I'll never agree with you. Never, Elena.
Good morning, father. It's hard on the feet, huh?
Yeah!...Getting there's downhill and all the saints help you. But coming back! The saints stand there watching you, that's all! God's will be done.
What is it, Alfredo? Right now, of all times!
Father Adelfio, I have a very serious doubt that is torturing my soul. And you've got to help me, because I've lost all peace of mind...
But Alfredo, what you're saying is horrifying!
I know. But take themiracle of the loaves and fishes, for example! I think about it a lot...How is it possible for...
You understand now? You see it clearly?
Oh yes, father. Now everything's clear.
And the next time don't go around saying such heresy. You survived the fire at the movie house. But no one can save you from the fire of Hell!
You must not come here! How many times do I have to tell you? If the film catches fire, runt that you are, you'd go up in a burst of flame...whoosh! And turn into a piece of...
...and turn into a piece of charcoal!!
'Cause sometimes you can't find the right place any more and so...well, actually...they stay here. Besides, there are more kisses than you can count.
So I can have these?
Look, Toto! Before I kick your ass all the way to China and back, let's make a deal. These strips here are yours, I give them to you. However! One you're not to stick your nose in here any more. Two I'll keep them for you, because you can't take them home for God forbid and save our souls, if they catch fire, all hell will break loose! OK? Oh!!! And now scram!
What are you doing here?
I bought a ticket. I've come to see the film.
Signora Maria, don't do that. He's just a kid. And why are you telling fibs? We let him in free. He must have lost the money inside the movie theatre... How much did you have?
Fifty lire...
What you find tonight on the floor between the seats?
Alfredo, did you know my father?
Of course I knew your father. He was tall, thin, pleasant, and had a moustache like mine. Always smiling. He looked like Clark Gable.
'I choose my friends for their looks, and my enemies for their brains...' You're too smart to be my friend. Besides, as I always tell my kids, be careful to pick the right friends!
But you don't have any kids!!!
All right, all right! When I've got kids that's what I'm telling them!
I told my mother you weren't the one who gave me the films. That it wasn't your fault. But I thought you said the film could catch fire just to scare me. Now that I know, I won't steal any more from you. That's all I wanted to say. I'm going.
Toto, come here.
Now listen to what I've got to say. I took up this profession when I was ten years old. In those days there weren't these modern machines. The films were silent. The projectors were run by hand, like this, with a crank. And you wound the crank all day long. It was really rough going! If you got tired and slowed down' boom! Everything would go up in flames!
Then why don't you want to teach it to me too? Now that there's no more cranking, and it's easier?
Because I don't want to, Toto! This is not a job for you. It's like being a slave. You're always alone. You see the same film over and over again, because you have nothing else to do. And you start talking to Greta Garbo and Tyrone Power like a nut! You work on holidays, on Christmas, on Easter. Only on Good Friday are you free. But if they hadn't put Jesus Christ on a cross...You'd work Good Fridays too!
Then why don't you change jobs?
Because I'm an idiot. How many other guys in town know how to be a projectionist? None! Only a jerk like me could do it. Besides I wasn't lucky. When I was a kid there was the war! When I grew up, another war! Now it's all different. Times have changed. And you want to be a dope like me? Huh? Answer me!
No...
Good for you, Toto. Good for you... I'm only saying this for your own good... Cooped up in here you die of heat in the summer and of cold in the winter. You breathe in smoke, gas fumes, and earn practically nothing.
But don't you like anything about what you do?
With time...you get used to it. Besides, when you hear from up here that there's a full house and that people are laughing, having fun... Then you're happy too. So I've been wasting my breath? You pretend to agree with me, but as soon as my back is turned, you do what you want! Get out of here! I don't want to lay eyes on you again! This is the last straw! Your mother's right, you're crazy!! But how'd he do it? The little bastard! By watching, he's learned! It's incredible! I'm letting the box office know you're not to set foot even into the theatre! There are no more tickets for you! And I'm also talking to Father Adelfio! You won't be an altar boy any more either!!! You little runt!
Alfredo, go fuck yourself!!!
You understand which side the gelatin's on?
It tastes wonderful!
Will they really find work in Germany?
Who knows?...It's like an adventure. Hope springs eternal...
Peppinoooo! Come back sooon!! Good thing Germany's closer than Russia.
It's got to be sent to another town. And if we don't the owner of that movie house gets pissed off.
Too bad!
Any room for me in this Cinema Paradiso?
Come in, Alfredo.
How's school?
OK. OK. But now that I've got a job, I'11 probably stop going...
Don't do that...Sooner or later you'll be left emptyhanded.
Why? What do you mean?
Toto, this isn't for you. For the moment, the Cinema Paradiso needs you, and you need the Cinema Paradiso. But it won't last...Some day you'll have other things to do, more important things... That's right, more important. I know it. Now that I've lost my sight I see more. I see everything I didn't see before... And it's all thanks to you, who saved my life. And I'll never forget it... And don't put on that look. I haven't gone off my head yet. You want proof?
Yes. I want proof.
For example, at this moment the film's out of focus. Go see.
What'd I tell you? It doesn't catch fire!
Progress! It always arrives too late!
Chaplin's Modern Times! Right, Toto?
That's right, Modern Times.
I've shown it so many times I know it by heart. The first time I showed it, in 1940, was the Sunday my first wife died. They kept it hidden from me all day so they wouldn't have to close down the movie house. I only found out that night, after the last show. Those are things you never forget... So, Toto, how are these home movies going?
Yes.
What is it, what is it? What's the picture?
It's people in the slaughterhouse killing a calf. There's blood all over the floor, like a lake. And through this lake another calf passes by on its way to die.
Now what can you see?
Nothing, there's nothing. It's all out of focus.
Is there a woman?...Tell me the truth... There is a woman.
Yes, it's a girl I saw at the station.
What's she like? What's she like?...
Eh! Love...what a mystery! I understand you, Toto...The ones with blue eyes are the most beautiful. Whatever you do, you can't make friends with them. Eh, there's nothing to be done about it! The heavier a man is, the deeper his footprints. And if he's in love, he suffers, because he knows he's up a oneway street. Because love is a meaningless thing when a man gets it into his head to do what he wants...
What you say is wonderful! But sad...
They're not my words. John Wayne said it in Shepherd of the Hills.
I told you, the blueeyed ones are the most difficult.
But why? There must be some way to make her understand!
Don't think about it, Toto. Don't even try. With feelings, there's nothing to understand.
Stop it! I've had enough of your sermons! You act as if you created the world!
Heeey! Totooooo! Don't get pissed off with me now! Come here! I don't know where the fuck I have to go. And the next time be careful how you talk. Not to take credit away from the Lord, but if I had created the world, in all modesty, certain things would have come out better. But unfortunately such was not the case.
You see, it s like I say. You always have an answer for everything.
I want to make you happy, Toto! I'm going to tell you a story. Once upon a time a king gave a feast and there were all the most beautiful princesses of the realm. Basta, one of the guards, saw the king's daughter: she was the loveliest of all! And he immediately fell in love with her. But what could a poor soldier do compared with a king's daughter?!...One day he managed to meet her and told her he couldn't live without her. The princess was so struck by the depth of his feeling that she said to the soldier 'If you will wait a hundred days and a hundred nights beneath my balcony, then in the end I'll be yours.' Christ, the soldier ran off there and waited! One day, two days, ten, twenty...Every night she looked out of her window, but he never budged. Come rain, wind, snow, never budged! The birds shat on him and the bees ate him alive! After ninety nights he was gaunt and pale and tears streamed from his eyes but he couldn't hold them back. He didn't even have the strength to sleep any more. The princess kept watch...And on the ninetyninth night, the soldier got up, picked up his chair and left!
No! You mean right at the end? ALFREDO That's right, Toto, right at the end? And don't ask me what it means. If you figure it out, let me know...
Toto, are you pulling my leg or something? How is it possible to see this television without film?
Just so, Alfredo. There isn't any. And if you buy a television set, you can watch it at home, without any fuss...
Could be...But I don't like this business. It smells fishy to me.
You weren't expecting me?
No, Alfredo, I was coming to help you...
You were expecting her? Huh? ...It's a nasty business waiting by yourself. In company it's better. No?...Then I'll leave.
But where'd you go, Toto?!!
I'm here! Take it easy! Take it easy! Sit down, sit down... Did she come?
No, nobody came.
You 're thinner...You can tell you've not been treated well. .
They tell me you never go out, never talk to anybody. Why?
Toto, sooner or later there comes a time when talking or keeping quiet is the same thing. So it's better to shut up. It's hot in here. Toto, take me to the beach.
Did you ever see her again?
No. And nobody knows where she is.
It was probably meant to be like this. Each of us has a star to follow. So now what are you thinking of doing?
Listen to this one...The commander says to the sergeant: 'You remember that windmill that used to be there?' 'Yes, sir, I remember the mill's gone but the wind's still there!' You remember the story of the soldier and the princess?
Now I understand why the soldier went away just before the end. That's right, just one more night and the princess would have been his. But she, also, could not have kept her promise. And...that would have been terrible, he would have died from it. So instead, for ninetynine nights at least he had lived with the illusion that she was there waiting for him...
Do like the soldier, Toto! Go away! This land is cursed. When you're here every day you feel like you're at the center of the universe, it seems like nothing ever changes. Then you go away, one year, two...And when you come back, everything's different. The thread has broken. You don't find those you were looking for, your things no longer exist. Isn't that the case?...You've got to go away a long time, for many, many years, before coming back and finding your people again, the land where you were born...But not now, it's impossible. Now you're blinder than I am.
Who said that? Gary Cooper, James Stewart, Henry Fonda? Huh?
No, Toto, nobody said it. I say it! Life's not like you saw it in the movies. Life...is harder. Get out! Go back to Rome. You 're young, the world is yours! And I'm old...I don't want to hear you talk any more, I want to hear talk about you.
Thanks for all you've done for me.
Whatever you do, love it like you loved that projection booth of the Paradiso when you were little...
Not exactly.
But that's what you told your wife.
Lots of fellas do. Tell the little woman they're going on a fishing trip, then shack up with some little twist on the island... she pretty?
I'm going to see a man called Julian Cross. Ever heard of him?
Is the Pope Catholic? Who are you, mister?... I ask because he doesn't see a whole lot of people.
I'm working for his daughter.
That right?... She used to be some looker.
She ain't exactly long in the tooth now.
She must be about thirtythree, thirty four.
You must be thinking of a different daughter.
No, he's only got one, I remember her age, I read it in the newspapers when she ran away.
She ran away?
Oh yeah, it was a big thing at the time. Julian Cross' daughter. God almighty. She was a wild little thing.
Course, she settled down nicely.
Well, you never know, do you?
That's for sure.
Why'd she run away?
Oh, you know. She was sixteen or seventeen.
We missed the best of it, didn't we, pal?
She ran off to Mexico. Rumor was she was knocked up and didn't even know who the father was. Went there to get rid of it.
You don't say?
Cross was looking for her all over the country. Offered rewards, everything. Felt real sorry for him, with all his money.
What's that, pal?
Nothing. You got a hell of a way to make a living.
Oh? What do you do to make ends meet?
Mortgage Department, First National Bank.
Tell me, how many people a week do you foreclose on?
We don't publish a record in the paper, I can tell you that.
Neither do I.
No, you have a press agent do it.
This?
They got into a terrific argument outside the Pig 'n Whistle.
What about?
I don't know. The traffic was pretty loud. I only heard one thing apple core.
Apple core?
Yeah.
Jesus Christ, Walsh. That's what you spent your day doing?
Look, you tell me to take pictures, I take pictures.
Let me explain something to you, Walsh. This business requires a certain finesse.
Look, Jake. She gave us Mulwray's real phone number and address.
All she needed for that was the phone book!
No, no. She said not to call, her husband might answer.
When I find out who that phony bitch was.
So he says you sent them?
They're all a bunch of phonies.
Think you can nail Mulvihill? They'll claim you were trespassing.
I don't want Mulvihill. I want the big boys that are making the payoffs.
Yeah?
Yeah. What's wrong with you guys? Think ahead. We find 'em, sue 'em. We'll make a killing. We'll have dinner at Chasen's twice a week, we'll be pissing on ice the rest of our lives.
Sue people like that they're liable to be having dinner with the Judge who's trying the suit.
Duffy, go over and sit on Mulvihill. Jesus Christ, I didn't tell you to bring the police department with you.
Jake, it's Chinatown. They're all over the place. You oughta know better.
Gimme your keys. Watch this old fart, will you? Take Duffy's car. Curly's boat's in Pedro, near the Starkist cannery. It's the Evening Star. He'll be waiting. I'll take care of this.
Mr. Mulwray, please.
He's not in, Mr.?
Gittes.
May I ask what this is regarding?
It's personal. Has he been out long?
Since lunch.
Gee whiz. And I'm late.
He was expecting you?
Fifteen minutes ago. Why don't I go in and wait?
Mr. Yelburton will be busy for some time.
Well I'm on my lunch hour. I'll wait.
He's liable to be tied up indefinitely.
I take a long lunch. All day sometimes.
Julian Cross worked for the water department?
Yes. No.
He did or he didn't?
He owned it.
He owned the water department?
Yes.
He owned the entire water supply for the city?
Yes.
How did they get it away from him?
Mr. Mulwray felt the public should own the display. The water. If you'll just read the display.
Mulwray? I thought you said Cross owned the department.
Along with Mr. Mulwray.
They were partners.
Yes. Yes, they were partners.
No problem with me on the Job.
Yeah. Do you have any references?
City of La Habra Heights filled an 800,000 gallon reservoir with sixteen inches of rain in two days.
That's swell. But how about here? Ever worked for Robert Knox, Emma Dill, Clarence Speer, Marian Parsons, or Jasper Lamar Crabb?
Never heard of 'em... new owners?
Yeah.
Lot of turnover these days. Better tell them to get in touch with me if they want to hang onto their land.
Yeah, I'll do that.
How do you do, Mrs. Mulwray?
Mr. Gittes...
Now, Mrs. Mulwray, what seems to be the problem?
No, really?
I'm afraid so.
I am sorry.
Can't we talk about this alone, Mr. Gittes?
I'm afraid not, Mrs. Mulwray. These men are my operatives and at some point they're going to assist me. I can't do everything myself.
Of course not.
Now, what makes you certain he is involved with someone?
Mrs. Mulwray, do you love your husband?
...Yes of course.
Then go home and forget about it.
But...
I'm sure he loves you, too. You know the expression, let sleeping dogs lie? You're better off not knowing.
But I have to know.
All right, what's your husband's first name?
Hollis. Hollis Mulwray.
Water and Power?
This type of investigation can be hard on your pocketbook, Mrs. Mulwray. It takes time.
Money doesn't matter to me, Mr. Gittes.
Gittes?... Gittes?
Yeah.
Ida Sessions wants to see you.
Who?
Yeah?... I do?
Sure you do.
Well, tell you what, pal. If Ida wants to see me she can call me at my office.
Jake, what're you doin' here?
Nothin', Morty, it's my lunch hour, I thought I'd drop by and see who died lately.
Yeah? Ain't that something? Middle of a drought, the water commissioner drowns. Only in L.A.
Yeah. Banged up pretty bad.
That's a long fall.
So how are you, Morty?
Yeah.
Drowned, too.
Come again?
Yeah, got dead drunk, passed out in the bottom of the riverbed.
The L.A. River?
Yeah, under Hollenbeck Bridge, what's wrong with that?
It's bone dry, Morty.
It's not completely dry.
Yeah, well he ain't gonna drown in a damp riverbed either, I don't care how soused he was. That's like drowning in a teaspoon.
Speak English?... Habla Ingles?
Si.
Didn't you talk to a man here... few days ago... wore glasses... he...
The water.
What about the water?
When it comes.
When it comes? What'd you tell him?
Comes in different parts of the river. Every night a different part.
Mr. Gittes?
Yes?
Do you know me?
Well... I think I... I would've remembered.
Have we ever met?
Well, no.
Never?
Never.
That's what I thought. You see, I'm Mrs. Evelyn Mulwray. You know, Mr. Mulwray's wife.
Can I help you? Russ Yelburton, Deputy Chief in the Department.
J.J. Gittes. And it's not a departmental matter.
I wonder if you'd care to wait in my office?
After all, you work with a man for a certain length of time, you come to know him, his habits, his values, and so forth. Well either he's the kind who chases after women or he isn't.
And Mulwray isn't?
He never even kids about it.
Maybe he takes it very seriously.
You don't happen to know where Mr. Mulwray's having lunch?
I'm sorry, I 
Well, tell him I'll be back.
Mind if I take one of your cards? In case I want to get in touch with you again.
Help yourself.
Relax, Mulvihill, glad to see you. Do you know Claude Mulvihill here?
Hope so. He's working for us.
Mr. Gittes, sorry to keep you waiting. These staff meetings, they just go on and on.
Yeah, must be especially tough to take over under these circumstances.
Oh yes. Hollis was the best department head the city's ever had. My goodness, what happened to your nose?
I cut myself shaving.
You ought to be more careful. That must really smart.
Only when I breathe.
Only when you breathe... don't tell me you're still working for Mrs. Mulwray?
I never was.
I don't understand.
Neither do I, actually. But you hired me or you hired that chippie to hire me.
Mr. Gittes, you're not making a bit of sense.
Well, look at it this way, Mr. Yelburton. Mulwray didn't want to build a dam and he had a reputation that was hard to get around, so. you decided to ruin it. Then he found out that you were dumping water every night. Then he was drowned.
Mr. Gittes! That's an outrageous accusation. I don't know what you're talking about.
Well, Whitey Mehrholtz over at the Times will. Dumping thousands of gallons of water down the toilet in the middle of a drought. That's news.
Wait. Please sit down, Mr. Gittes. We're... well, we're not anxious for this to get around, but we have been diverting a little water to irrigate avocado and walnut groves in the northwest valley. As you know, the farmers there have no legal right to our water, and since the drought we've had to cut them off. The city comes first, naturally. But, well, we've been trying to help some of them out, keep them from going under. Naturally when you divert water you get a little runoff.
Yeah, a little runoff. Where are those orchards?
I said, the northwest valley.
That's like saying they're in Arizona.
Mr. Gittes, my field men are out and I can't give you an exact location...
You're a married man, am I right?
Yes...
Hard working, have a wife and kids...
Yes...
I don't want to nail you. I just want to know who put you up to it. I'll give you a few days to think it over. Call me. I can help. Who knows? Maybe we can lay the whole thing off on a few big shots and you can stay head of the department for the next twenty years.
Oh my goodness.
Nothing to do with Dad. It's me, actually.
Naturally, I want the best for him, money is no object.
Perhaps if we could meet your father.
There's just one question.
Of course.
Do you accept anyone of the Jewish persuasion?
I'm sorry. We don't.
Don't be sorry, neither does Dad. Wanted to make sure though, didn't we, honey?
Just to be certain, I wonder if you could show us a list of your patients?
We don't reveal the names of our guests as a matter of policy. I know you'd appreciate that if your father came to live with us.
That's exactly what we wanted to hear.
Oh, good.
I wonder, is it too late for us to have a look around?
I don't think so. Be happy to show you.
Would you mind if we took a stroll on our own?
Just, if you will, confine yourself to the main building. It's nearly bedtime.
We understand, c'mon, sweetheart.
Yeah, Sophie.
A Miss Sessions calling.
Who?
Ida Sessions.
Don't know her. Take a number.
Miss Ida Sessions again. She says you know her.
Okay.
Hello, Miss Sessions. I don't believe we've had the pleasure.
Oh yes we have... are you alone, Mr. Gittes?
Isn't everybody? What can I do for you, Miss Sessions?
Well, I'm a working girl, Mr. Gittes. I didn't come in to see you on my own.
When did you come in?
I was the one who pretended to be Mrs. Mulwray, remember?
Shut the fuck up! ...Yes I remember nothing, Miss Sessions, just going over a detail or two with my associates... you were saying?
Well I never expected anything to happen like what happened to Mr. Mulwray, the point is if it ever comes out I want somebody to know I didn't know what would happen.
I understand... if you could tell me who employed you, Miss Sessions. That could help us both.
Oh no.
...Why don't you give me your address and we can talk this over?
No, Mr. Gittes. Just look in the obituary column of today's Times...
The obituary column?
You'll find one of those people.
'Those people?' Miss Sessions.
Where'd he go yesterday?
Three reservoirs. Men's room of a Richfield gas station on Flower, and the Pig 'n Whistle.
Jesus Christ, this guy's really got water on the brain.
What'd you expect? That's his job.
Listen, we can't string this broad out indefinitely we got to come up with something.
I think I got something.
Oh yeah? You pick up the watch?
It's on your desk. Say, you hear the one about the guy who goes to the North Pole with Admiral Byrd looking for penguins?
Sophie... is Walsh there?... yeah, listen, pal, Escobar's going to try and book me in about five minutes... relax, I'll tell you. Wait in the office for two hours. If you don't hear from me, you and Duffy meet me at 1712 Alameda.
Jesus, that's in Chinatown, ain't it?
Walsh here?
He's in the dark room.
Sophie, go to the little girl's room for a minute.
But, Mr. Gittes.
Sophie.
Yes, Mr. Gittes.
Sophie.
Yes, Mr. Gittes.
Get me the Times. Whitey Mehrholtz. And how about that snotty broad? What does she think, she's perfect? Coming in waving her lawyers and her money at me so goddam smug. She's no better than anybody else in this town.
Not that Mulwray?
Yes, that Mulwray, Mr. Gittes. And since you agree with me we've never met, you must also agree that I haven't hired you to do anything. Certainly not spy on my husband. I see you like publicity, Mr. Gittes. Well, you're going to get it.
Now wait a minute, Mrs. Mulwray...
Would you like something to drink?
What are you having?
Iced tea.
Yeah. Fine, thank you.
My husband's at the office.
Actually he's not. And he's moved from his apartment at the El Macando.
That's not his apartment.
Anyway... I... the point is, Mrs. Mulwray. I'm not in business to be loved, but I am in business, and believe me, whoever set up your husband, set me up. L.A.'s a small town, people talk.
I'm just trying to make a living, and I don't want to become a local Joke.
Mr. Gittes, you've talked me into it. I'll drop the lawsuit.
What?
I said I'll drop it.
So let's just drop the whole thing. Sugar? Lemon?
Mrs. Mulwray?
Yes, Mr. Gittes?
I don't want to drop it.
I should talk this over with your husband.
Why?... What on earth for? Look, Hollis seems to think you're an innocent man.
Well, I've been accused of many things, Mrs. Mulwray, but never that.
You see, somebody went to a lot of trouble here, and I want to find out, lawsuit or no lawsuit. I'm not the one who's supposed to be caught with my pants down... so I'd like to see your husband. Unless that's a problem.
What do you mean?
May I speak frankly, Mrs. Mulwray?
You may if you can, Mr. Gittes.
Well, that little girlfriend, she was attractive in a cheap sort of way of course. She's disappeared. Maybe they disappeared together somewhere.
Suppose they did. How does it concern you?
Nothing personal, Mrs. Mulwray, I just 
It's very personal. It couldn't be more personal. Is this a business or an obsession with you?
Look at it this way. Now this phony broad, excuse the language, says she's you, she's hired me. Whoever put her up to it, didn't have anything against me. They were out to get your husband. Now if I see him, I can help him. Did you talk this morning?
No. I went riding rather early.
Looks like you went quite a distance.
No, Just riding bareback, that's all. Anyway, you might try the Oak Pass or Stone Canyon Reservoirs. Sometimes at lunch Hollis takes walks around them. Otherwise he'll be home by 6:30.
I'll stop by.
Please call first.
Mrs. Mulwray?... Mrs. Mulwray.
...Just a minute...
You left your keys in the ignition.
Oh... thank you.
Thank you for going along with me. I just didn't want to explain anything... I'll send you a check.
A check?
I got your check in the mall.
Yes. As I said, I was very grateful.
Mrs. Mulwray, I'm afraid that's not good enough.
Well, how much would you like?
Stop it. The money's fine. It's generous but you've shortchanged me on the story.
I have?
I think so. Something besides your husband's death was bothering you. You were upset but not that upset.
Mr. Gittes... Don't tell me how I feel.
Sorry. Look, you sue me, your husband dies, you drop the lawsuit like a hot potato, and all of it quicker than wind from a duck's ass. Excuse me. Then you ask me to lie to the police.
It wasn't much of a lie.
If your husband was killed it was. This can look like you paid me off to withhold evidence.
But he wasn't killed.
Well, I suppose I am... actually I knew about the affair.
How did you find out?
My husband.
He told you?
And you weren't the slightest bit upset about it?
I was grateful.
You'll have to explain that, Mrs. Mulwray.
Why?
Look, I do matrimonial work, It's my metiay. When a wife tells me she's happy her husband is cheating on her it runs contrary to my experience.
Unless what?
She's cheating on him.
I don't like the word 'cheat.'
Did you have affairs?
Mr. Gittes.
Did he know?
Well I wouldn't run home and tell him whenever I went to bed with someone, if that's what you mean.
Is there anything else you want to know?
Where you were when your husband died.
I can't tell you.
You mean you don't know where you were?
I mean I can't tell you.
You were seeing someone, too.
For very long?
I don't see anyone for very long, Mr. Gittes. It's difficult for me. Now I think you know all you need to about me. I didn't want publicity. I didn't want to go into any of this, then or now. Is this all?
K... Cross.
That your maiden name?
Yes... why?
No reason.
You must've had a reason to ask me that.
No. I'm just a snoop.
You seem to have had a reason for every other question.
No, not for that one.
I don't believe you.
How did it happen?
Been meaning to talk to you about that.
Maybe putting your nose in other people's business?
More like other people putting their business in my nose.
Another satisfied client?
Another satisfied client's wife.
Oh, no. I've got my own car. The creamcolored Packard.
Wait a minute, sonny. I think you better come with me.
What for? There's nothing more to say. Get my car, please.
Whoever's behind my husband's death, why have they gone to all this trouble?
Money. How they plan to make it by emptying the reservoirs, that I don't know.
I'll pay your salary plus five thousand dollars if you find out what happened to Hollis and who is involved.
Your father is Julian Cross, isn't he?
Yes, of course. It was quite a while after. I was just out of grade school when they did that.
So you married your father's business partner?
You've got one going, Mrs. Mulwray.
Oh.
Is there something upsetting about my asking about your father?
No!... Yes, a little. You see Hollis and my fa... my father had a falling out...
Over the water department, or over you?
Not over me. Why would they have a falling out over me?
Then it was over the water department.
Not exactly. Well, I mean, yes. Yes and no. Hollis felt the public should own the water but I don't think my father felt that way. Actually, it was over the Van der Lip. The dam that broke.
Oh, yeah?
Yes. He never forgave him for it.
Never forgave him for what?
For talking him into building it, he never forgave my father... They haven't spoken to this day.
You sure shout that?
Of course I'm sure.
What about you? Do you and your father get along?
What are you thinking?
Before this I turned on the faucet, it came out hot and cold, I didn't think there was a thing to it.
That dam is a con job.
What dam?
The one your husband opposed. They're conning L.A. into building it, only the water won't go to L.A. It'll go here.
The Valley?
Everything you can see, everything around us. I was at the Hall of Records today. That bother you?
No.
In the last three months, Robert Knox has bought 7,000 acres, Emma Dill 12,000 acres, Clarence Speer 5,000 acres, and Jasper Lamar Crabb 25,000 acres.
Jasper Lamar Crabb?
Know him?
No, I think I'd remember.
Yeah. They've been blowing these farmers out of here and buying their land for peanuts. Have any idea what this land'll be worth with a steady water supply? About thirty million more than they paid.
And Hollis knew about it?
It's why he was killed. Jasper Lamar Crabb. Jasper Lamar Crabb.
We got it. We got it, baby.
What? What is it?
There was a memorial service at the Mar Vista Inn today for Jasper Lamar Crabb. He died three weeks ago.
Is that unusual?
Two weeks ago he bought those 25,000 acres. That's unusual.
You're looking at the owners of a 50,000 acre empire.
They can't be.
They may not know it but they are.
I'll stay.
Get in the car.
Maid's night off?
Why?
What do you mean, 'why?' Nobody's here, that's all.
I gave everybody the night off.
Easy, it's an innocent question.
No question from you is innocent, Mr. Gittes.
I guess not to you, Mrs. Mulwray. Frankly you really saved my a... my neck tonight.
Tell me something. Does this usually happen to you, Mr. Gittes?
What's that, Mrs. Mulwray?
Well, I'm only judging on the basis of one afternoon and an evening, but if that's how you go about your work, I'd say you're lucky to get through a whole day.
Actually this hasn't happened to me in some time.
When was the last time?
Why?
Just. I don't know why. I'm asking.
It was in Chinatown.
What were you doing there?
Working for the District Attorney.
Doing what?
As little as possible.
The District Attorney gives his men advice like that?
They do in Chinatown.
Boy oh boy, you're a mess.
Yeah.
So why does it bother you to talk about it... Chinatown...
Bothers everybody who works there, but to me... It was...
Hold still. Why?
You can't always tell what's going on there.
...No. Why was it.
I thought I was keeping someone from being hurt and actually I ended up making sure they were hurt.
Could you do anything about it?
What's wrong?
Your eye.
What about it?
There's something black in the green part of your eye.
Oh that... It's a flaw in the iris...
...A flaw...
...Yes, sort of a birthmark...
Where?
Just... I have to.
And I want to know where.
Please don't be angry... believe me, it's got nothing to do with you.
Where are you going?
Please!... Trust me this much... I'll be back. Look, there is something I should tell you. The fishing club that old lady mentioned, the pieces off the flag.
The Albacore Club.
It has to do with my father.
I know.
He owns it. You know?
I saw him.
You saw my fa... father? When?
This morning.
You didn't tell me.
There hasn't been a lot of time.
What did he say? What did he say?
That you were jealous, and he was worried about what you might do.
Do? To who?
Mulwray's girlfriend, for one thing. He wanted to know where she was.
I want you to listen to me. My father is a very dangerous man. You don't know how dangerous. You don't know how crazy.
Give me an example.
You may think you know what's going on, but you don't.
That's what your father said. You're telling me he's in back of this whole thing?
It's possible.
Including the death of your husband?
It's possible. Please don't ask me any more questions now. Just wait, wait for me. I'll be back. I need you here.
Okay, give me the keys.
You bastard.
It's either that or you drive to the police yourself.
The police?
C'mon, Mrs. Mulwray. You've got your husband's girlfriend tied up in there!
She's not tied up!
You know what I mean. You're keeping her there against her will.
I am not!
Then let's go talk to her.
She's too upset.
What about?
Hollis' death. I tried to keep it from her, I didn't want her upset before I could make plans for her to leave.
You mean she just found out?
Yes.
That's not what it looks like, Mrs. Mulwray.
What does it look like?
Like she knows about Hollis' death. Like she knows more than you want her to tell.
You're insane.
Just tell me the truth. I'm not the police. I don't care what you've done. I'm not going to hurt you, but one way or another I'm going to know.
You won't go to the police if I tell you?
I will if you don't.
I can't...
Because of Hollis? Because she was seeing your husband? Was that it? Jesus Christ, say something. Was that it?
I took your husband's Buick... I'll return it tomorrow.
Aren't you coming back with me?
Don't worry. I'm not telling anybody about this.
...That's not what I meant.
Did you get some sleep?
Sure.
Did you have lunch? Kyo will fix you something.
Where's the girl?
Upstairs. Why?
I want to see her.
...she's having a bath now... why do you want to see her?
Going somewhere?
Yes, we've got a 4:30 train to catch. Why?
J. J. Gittes for Lieutenant Escobar
What are you doing? What's wrong? I told you we've got a 4:30.
You're going to miss your train! Lou, meet me at 1412 Adelaide. It's above Santa Monica Canyon... yeah, soon as you can.
What did you do that for?
You know any good criminal lawyers?
No...
Don't worry. I can recommend a couple. They're expensive but you can afford it.
What the hell is this all about?
I found these in your backyard... in your fish pond. They belonged to your husband, didn't they?... didn't they?
I don't know. I mean yes, probably.
Yes positively. That's where he was drowned...
What are you saying?
There's no time for you to be shocked by the truth, Mrs. Mulwray. The coroner's report proves he was killed in salt water. Just take my word for it. Now I want to know how it happened and why. I want to know before Escobar gets here because I want to hang onto my license.
I don't know what you're talking about. This is the most insane... the craziest thing I ever...
Stop it! I'll make it easy. You were jealous, you fought, he fell, hit his head. It was an accident, but his girl is a witness. You've had to pay her off. You don't have the stomach to harm her, but you've got the money to shut her up. Yes or no?
...no...
Who is she? And don't give me that crap about it being your sister. You don't have a sister.
That's good. Now what's her name?
Katherine.
Katherine?... Katherine who?
She's my daughter.
I said the truth!
She's my sister.
I said I want the truth.
She's my sister and my daughter!
...he had a breakdown... the dam broke... my mother died... he became a little boy... I was fifteen... he'd ask me what to eat for breakfast, what clothes to wear!... It happened... then I ran away...
To Mexico...
Hollis came and took... care of me... after she was born... he said... he took care of her... I couldn't see her... I wanted to but I couldn't... I just want to see her once in a while... take care of her... that's all... but I don't want her to know... I don't want her to know...
...so that's why you hate him...
Yeah... where are you taking her now?
Back to Mexico.
You can't go by train. Escobar'll be looking for you everywhere.
How about a plane?
That's worse... Just get out of here. Walk out, leave everything.
I have to go home and get my things.
I'll take care of it.
Where can we go?
...where does Kyo live?
With us.
On his day off. Get the exact address.
Okay...
How do you know?
He didn't wear bifocals.
Let me handle that.
I'm all right.
Sure, but I'd like to handle it.
It looks like he was washed the entire length of the runoff channel. Could he swim?
Of course.
Obviously the fall must have knocked him out.
...Well, it didn't make him happy...
But there is no possibility he would have taken his own life?
No.
Mrs. Mulwray, do you happen to know the name of the young woman in question?
No.
Do you know where she might be?
Certainly not!
You and your husband never discussed her?
He... we did... he wouldn't tell me her name. We quarreled over her... of course. It came as a complete surprise to me.
A complete surprise?
Yes.
But I thought you'd hired a private investigator.
A private investigator?
Mr. Gittes.
Well yes.
Will you need me for anything else, Lieutenant?
I don't think so, Mrs. Mulwray. Of course you have my deepest sympathy and if we need anymore information, we'll be in touch.
Hello, Jake.
How are you, Lou?
I have a cold I can't seem to shake but other than that, I'm fine.
Summer colds are the worst.
Yeah, they are.
Thanks, Lou.
How'd you get past the guards?
Well, to tell you the truth, I lied a little.
You've done well by yourself.
I get by.
Well, sometimes it takes a while for a man to find himself and I guess you have.
You're behind the times, Jake. They've got steam irons now. And I'm out of Chinatown.
Since when?
Since I made Lieutenant.
Congratulations.
Uhhuh. So what are you doing here?
Looking for someone.
Who?
Hollis Mulwray. You seen him?
Oh yes.
I'd like to talk to him.
You're welcome to try. There he is.
You wouldn't happen to know the present whereabouts of the young woman.
No.
Or her name?
No.
I don't want it anymore.
No?
No. It was an accident.
You mean that's what you're going to call it.
No, he drowned a cousin of mine with about five hundred other people. But they weren't very important, just a bunch of dumb Mexicans living by a dam. Now beat it, Gittes, you don't come out of this smelling like a rose, you know.
Oh yeah? Can you think of something to charge me with?
When I do, you'll hear about it.
What are you doing here?
Didn't you call?
How do you happen to know her?
I don't.
Let me show you something.
Isn't that your number?
Is it? I forget. I don't call myself that often.
Just to be on the safe side, we had Loach here give you a ring.
Yeah, I took 'em. So what?
How did she... ...happen to have them?
You really think I'm stupid, don't you, Gittes?
I don't think about it one way or the other. But if you want, give me a day or two, and I'll get back to you. Now I'd like to go home.
I want the rest of the pictures.
What pictures?
This broad hired you, Gittes, not Evelyn Mulwray.
Yeah?
Yeah. Somebody wanted to shake down Mulwray, she hired you, and that's how you happen to know Mulwray was murdered.
I heard it was an accident.
C'mon, you think you're dealing with a bunch of assholes? Mulwray had salt water in his goddam lungs! Now how did he get that... in a fresh water reservoir?
You were following him night and day. You saw who killed him. You even took pictures of it. It was Evelyn Mulwray. She's been paying you off like a slot machine ever since her husband died.
You accusing me of extortion?
Absolutely.
I don't think I need a day or two. You're even dumber than you think I think you are. Not only that, I'd never extort a nickel out of my worst enemy, that's where I draw the line, Escobar.
Yeah, I once knew a whore who for enough money would piss in a customer's face, but she'd never shit on his chest. That's where she drew the line.
Well, I hope she wasn't too much of a disappointment to you, Lou.
I want those photographs, Gittes. We're talking about accessory after the fact, conspiracy, and extortion. Minimum.
Why do you think Mulwray's body was moved you dimwit? Evelyn Mulwray knocked off her husband in the ocean and thought it would look like more of an accident if she hauled him up to the Oak Pass Reservoir?
Mulwray was murdered and moved because somebody didn't want his body found in the ocean.
And why's that?
He found out somebody was dumping water there. That's what they were trying to cover up by moving him.
What are you talking about?
C'mon I'll show you.
It's too late.
Too late for what?
They only dump the water at night.
I know what he says.
Shut up. Go on.
I don't suppose you got any idea Where she went?
Matter of fact I do.
Where?
Her maid's house. I think she knows something's up.
What's the maid's address?
She lives in Pedro. I'll write it down for you.
No, Gittes, you'll show us.
What for?
If she's not there, you're going downtown, and you're staying there til she shows up.
Gee, Lou, I'm doing the best I can.
Tell us about it on the way to Pedro.
That's it?
Yeah.
Well, let's go.
Do me a favor, will you, Lou?
You never learn, do you, Gittes?
I guess not.
Give you three minutes.
Gee, thanks, Lou.
Mrs. Mulwray, you don't want to run around like that.
Oh, Christ. Escobar, you don't know what's going on. Let her go. I'll explain it later.
Mrs. Mulwray, it's a very serious offense pointing that at an officer of the law. It's a felony.
Let her go. She didn't kill anybody.
I'm sorry, Mrs. Mulwray.
Lou, she will kill you. Let her go for now. You don't know.
Gittes, stay outta this.
Who is he, get his name? I'll kill him.
Take it easy, take it easy, it was an accident.
An accident?
Get him away from her. He's responsible for everything. Get him away from her!
Jake, you're very disturbed. You're crazy. That's her father.
Yes.
I've been wanting to meet you.
Why?
Did you know that you're a very wealthy woman?
I'm not.
Well you own a lot of land.
Not anymore. Oh, some time ago, my late husband owned a good deal of beach property in Long Beach, but we lost it.
That's just lovely.
Thank you...
Where did you get this material?
The apple core club.
The apple core?
No. The albacore. It's a fish. My grandson's a member and they take very nice care of us.
How do they do that?
Give us things. Not just some old flag like this, but 
But what?
So there's this fella who's tired of screwing his wife.
Jake, listen.
Shut up, Duffy, you're always in a hurry and his friend says why not do what the Chinese do? So he says what do they do? His friend says the Chinese they screw for a while. Just listen a second, Duffy...
There's seven ashtrays in this room, Duffy.
Okay.
That's a filthy habit.
I said okay, Jake.
Yeah, yeah. If she'd come in here saying she was Shirley Temple you'd say okay to that, too.
Then what'll you do?
Sue the shit out of 'em.
She's just no good.
What can I tell you, Kid? You're right. When you're right, you're right, and you're right.
Ain't worth thinking about.
You're absolutely right, I wouldn't give her another thought.
You know, you're okay, Mr. Gittes. I know it's your job, but you're okay.
Thanks, Curly. Call me Jake.
Thanks. You know something, Jake?
What's that, Curly?
I think I'll kill her.
They don't kill a guy for that.
Oh they don't?
Not for your wife. That's the unwritten law.
...No...
You bet your ass you don't. You can't even pay me off.
I'll pay the rest next trip. We only caught sixty ton of skipjack around San Benedict. We hit a chubasco, they don't pay you for skipjack the way they do for tuna or albacore.
Forget it. I only mention it to illustrate a point...
What kind of guy do you think I am?
Thanks, Mr. Gittes.
Call me Jake. Careful driving home, Curly.
Gee, this is a surprise, Mr. Gittes.
Call me Jake. How is everything?
Just sitting down to supper, Jake. Care to join us?
No thanks.
How about a glass of wine? Honey, this is...
Sure thing.
Curly, where's your car?
In the garage.
Where's that?
Off the alley.
Could you drive me somewhere?
Sure, as soon as we eat.
Right now, Curly. It can't wait.
I'll just tell my wife.
Tell her later.
How much do you owe me, Curly?
Oh, gee, Mr. Gittes we're going out tomorrow. I know you been real good about it but my cousin Auggie's sick.
Forget it. How would you like to pay me off by taking a couple of passengers to Ensenada... you'd have to leave tonight.
I don't know...
I might be able to squeeze an extra seventyfive bucks out of it for you. Maybe an even hundred.
Plus what I owe you?
I'll throw that in too.
Okay, you got yourself a boat.
Tell Mrs. Mulwray to wait for half an hour after you get there. Then if I don't show, take her down to the boat.
You sure this is okay?
Curly, you know how long I been in business.
Hello.
Have you got your checkbook handy, Mr. Cross? I've got the girl.
You've got her? Where?
Do you remember the figures we discussed?
Of course I do. Where are you?
At your daughter's house. How soon can you get here?
Two hours... tell me, will Evelyn be there as well?
Either that or she'll be in jail.
What are you talking about?
Just bring your checkbook.
Sir?
I said horseshit. Horseshit.
Yes, sir, that's what it looks like. I'll give you that.
Always?
What? Oh, damn near yes. Unless the animal's sick or something. And the steam rising off it like that in the morning. That's life, Mr. Gittes. Life.
You know, you've got a nasty reputation, Mr. Gittes. I like that.
Thanks.
If you were a bank president that would be one thing, but in your business it's admirable. And it's good advertising.
It doesn't hurt.
It's why you attract a client like my daughter.
Probably.
But I'm surprised you're still working for her, unless she's suddenly come up with another husband.
No. She happens to think the last one was murdered.
How did she get that idea?
I think I gave it to her.
Fine, as long as you don't serve chicken that way.
Tell me. What do the police say?
They're calling it an accident.
Who's the investigating officer?
Lou Escobar he's a Lieutenant.
Do you know him?
Oh yes.
Where from?
We worked in Chinatown together.
Would you call him a capable man?
Very.
Honest?
Far as it goes. Of course he has to swim in the same water we all do.
Of course, but you've got no reason to think he's bungled the case?
None.
That's too bad.
Too bad?
It disturbs me, Mr. Gittes. It makes me think you're taking my daughter for a ride. Financially speaking, of course. How much are you charging her?
My usual fee, plus a bonus if I come up with any results.
Are you sleeping with her? Come, come, Mr. Gittes. You don't have to think about that to remember, do you?
If you want an answer to that question I can always put one of my men on the job. Good afternoon, Mr. Cross.
Mr. Gittes! You're dealing with a disturbed woman who's lost her husband. I don't want her taken advantage of. Sit down.
What for?
You may think you know what you're dealing with, but believe me, you don't.
Why is that funny?
It's what the D.A. used to tell me about Chinatown.
Was he right?
...Exactly what do you know about me, Mr. Gittes?
Mainly that you're rich and too respectable to want your name in the papers.
'Course I'm respectable. I'm old. Politicians, ugly buildings and whores all get respectable if they last long enough. I'll double whatever your fees are and I'll pay you ten thousand dollars if you can find Hollis' girlfriend.
His girlfriend?
Yes, his girlfriend.
You mean the little chippie he was with at the El Macando?
Yes. She's disappeared, hasn't she?
Yeah.
Doesn't that strike you as odd?
No. She's probably scared to death.
Wouldn't it be useful to talk to her?
Maybe.
If Mulwray was murdered, she was probably one of the last people to see him.
You didn't see Mulwray much, did you?
No.
When was the last time?
Sheriff's gold posse... bunch of damn fools who pay $5,000 apiece to the sheriff's reelection. I let 'em practice up out here.
Yeah. Do you remember the last time you talked to Mulwray?
At my age, you tend to lose track...
Well, It was about five days ago. You were outside the Pig 'n Whistle and you had one hell of an argument.
I've got the photographs in my office. If they'll help you remember. What was the argument about?
My daughter.
What about her?
Just find the girl, Mr. Gittes. I think she is frightened and I happen to know Hollis was fond of her. I'd like to help her if I can.
I didn't realize you and Hollis were so fond of each other.
Hollis Mulwray made this city and he made me a fortune... We were a lot closer than Evelyn realized.
If you want to hire me, I still have to know what you and Mulwray were arguing about.
Well... she's an extremely jealous person. I didn't want her to find out about the girl.
How did you find out?
I've still got a few teeth in my head, Mr. Gittes, and a few friends in town.
Okay. My secretary'll send you a letter of agreement. Tell me are you worried about that girl, or what Evelyn might do to her?
Just find the girl.
I'll look into it as soon as I check out some avocado groves.
Avocado groves?
We'll be in touch, Mr. Cross.
Well, you don't look any the worse for wear, Mr. Gittes, I must say... where's the girl?...
I've got her.
Is she all right?
She's fine.
Where is she?
With her mother.
I'd like you to look at something, Mr. Cross.
What is it?
An obituary column... can you read in this light?
Yes... I think I can manage...
What does this mean?
That you killed Hollis Mulwray.
...the coroner's report showed Mulwray had salt water in his lungs.
Hollie was always fond of tidepools. You know what he used to say about them?
Haven't the faintest idea.
That's where life begins... marshes, sloughs, tidepools... he was fascinated by them... you know when we first came out here he figured that if you dumped water onto desert sand it would percolate down into the bedrock and stay there, instead of evaporating the way it does in most reservoirs. You'd lose only twenty percent instead of seventy or eighty. He made this city.
And that's what you were going to do in the Valley?
No, Mr. Gittes. That's what I am doing with the Valley. The bond issue passes Tuesday. There'll be ten million to build an aqueduct and reservoir. I'm doing it.
There's going to be some irate citizens when they find out they're paying for water they're not getting.
That's all taken care of. You see, Mr. Gittes. Either you bring the water to L.A. or you bring L.A. to the water.
How do you do that?
Just incorporate the Valley into the city so the water goes to L.A. after all. It's very simple.
How much are you worth?
I have no idea. How much do you want?
I want to know what you're worth. Over ten million?
Oh, my, yes.
Then why are you doing it? How much better can you eat? What can you buy that you can't already afford?
The future, Mr. Gittes. The future. Now where's the girl?... I want the only daughter I have left... as you found out, Evelyn was lost to me a long time ago.
Who do you blame for that? Her?
I'll settle for L.A. County.
Row twentythree, section C.
How come all these new names are pasted into the plat book?
Land sales out of escrow are always recorded within the week.
Then these are all new owners?
That's right.
But that means that most of the valley's been sold in the last few months.
If that's what it says.
Can I check one of these volumes out?
Sir, this is not a lending library, it's the Hall of Records.
Well, then, how about a ruler?
A ruler?
The print's pretty fine. I forgot my glasses. I'd like to be able to read across.
Look at that.
Heat's murder.
Barney, who is this bimbo? He a regular customer?
Take it easy, Jake.
Look, pal. I make an honest living. People don't come to me unless they're miserable and I help 'em out of a bad situation. I don't kick them out of their homes like you jerks who work in the bank.
Jake, for Christ's sake.
I don't know how that got in the paper as a matter of fact it surprised me it was so quick. I make an honest living.
'Course you do, Jake.
An honest living.
So anyway, he says, 'whyn't you do what the Chinese do?'
We've gotta take out Brynner's van before they reach...
INT. GOMEZ'S HELICOPTER  DAY.
Do it now.
INT. GOMEZ'S HELICOPTER  DAY.
Uh, so head for the other end of the tunnel.
INT. VITELLI'S HELICOPTER  DAY.
I'll stay here and secure this position.
INT. POSTAL VAN  DAY.
It's too late, Mason. I've...
INT. TUNNEL  DAY.
...gotta seal it.
INT. GOMEZ'S HELICOPTER  DAY.
Negative. Negative.
INT. VITELLI'S HELICOPTER  DAY.
There's ammo fire from Brynner's vehicle.
He must've had a damn arsenal in there.
INT. TUNNEL  DAY.
Now! Seal that tunnel now!
INT. TUNNEL  DAY.
Okay, doc.
The usual. Doc.
EXT. U.S. ARMY RESEARCH LABORATORY/GUARD GATE  JEROME  NIGHT.
Get in
EXT. DARLENE'S STORE  NIGHT.
MASON +++$+++
EXT. ICE CREAM TRUCK  DAY.
MASON +++$+++
MASON +++$+++
MASON +++$+++
MASON +++$+++
INT. ICE CREAM TRUCK/BOX  DAY.
MASON +++$+++
INT. ICE CREAM TRUCK/CAB  DAY.
Gimme this god...
...damn phone.
Talk to me.
INT. BRYNNER'S VAN  DAY.
Arlo.
INT. ANDY'S ICE CREAM FACTORY/ANDY'S OFFICE  DAY.
MASON +++$+++
MASON +++$+++
MASON +++$+++
INT. TUNNEL/AIR VENT  DAY.
Oh.
BLACK BACKGROUND.
So, Mason, last Wednesday night, uh...were you out...
...uh, drifting around like the trash you are, or were you here workin'?
If it was Wednesday night, I was workin'.
Do you recognize this young man?
Nope. Is there a prob...
...lem?
You find yourself wearing a...
...badge someday, then you can ask the questions. Until then...
...you answer mine.
Got that?
So you don't remember...
...selling this young man beer Wednesday night.
I don't sell beer to minors. I take that kinda thing...
...seriously.
That's not the way I...
Lying?
Mason, you wouldn't know the truth if it bit you. We've got your whole record. We know about thethe conviction for vagrancy...
...public drunkenness....
I didn't sell the boy any...
...beer.
Shut your mouth until I tell you...
...to talk, son.
You know, I gotta tell you. That really bothers me, somebody calls me "son."
Then how about if I call you "ass...
Let me see your...
...hands!
Pappas! Move the car!
I said let me see your hands now!
You redneck idiot, do you have...
...any idea what's goin' on here?!
Yeah, asshole. I'm puttin' a murder suspect and a guy who...
...stole a truck under arrest.
MASON +++$+++
Now raise 'em!
Listen, Pappas...
...there's a colonel...
...on the other end of this phone.
His name's Vitelli. Talk to him. He's right out...
...side!
What happened to Colonel Brynner?
MASON +++$+++
Wait. Listen to me, Pappas. If you don't let us by...
...we're all gonna die in this...
...tunnel now!
Just go check the temperature.
Don't move!
MASON +++$+++
What the hell was that?
The Army, sealin' us in.
Jesus.
All right.
I'll lead 'em out.
MASON +++$+++
You sure?
Yeah, I'm sure.
All right, go.
Fol...
...you, Mason?
Yeah, yeah...
What? Say again, Ma...
...son.
What we gave Brynner on the dam was a phony!
We've got the real thing!
Where are you now...
...Mason?
I'm at mile marker...
Mason, what is the temperature of Elvis?!
Fortyseven.
If you're not out of there soon, I have got to seal the...
...tunnel!
God! They're gonna seal it.
Mason. Mason!
Yeah.
There's a vent shaft leading straight up.
Okay, I'll have a chopper meet you at the top.
SWEENEY +++$+++
Mr. Sweeney, how goes it?
Well, Costello's finished with the stability profile, but Abbott is still chewing on the load file.
So reaction temperature is fifty degrees.
Well, your prediction was on the nose.
How much longer for the range and power projections?
I don't know. Um, he's working, but there's a lot of data. Maybe...another hour?
We don't have an hour. We're already supposed to be shut down.
Dr. Long!
I got eight thousand yards. Radius is five...
...miles.
What?
MASON +++$+++
Been trying to figure out your secret.
My secret?
Yeah. Ten months we've been fishin' this river together. We use the same equipment, more or less...
...but you pull twice as many fish out of the water as I do.
And I'm good at this. Been doing it since I was a kid. But you, I don't know. Somehow you think...
...like a fish.
No, that's not possible, Mason. The trout...
...is a perfect hunter.
He's brains without ambition...
...sensitivity without neurosis. He's...
...the master of his realm.
How can we ever hope to win against the trout?
There's only one way you can do it, Mason.
Turn the power of the hunter against him.
Tie a fly...
...create a piece of bait that sends the fish's instincts into overdrive...
...forcing him to strike. And only then does our noble friend realize that the prey...can bite...
...back...
...and that power...
...without caution...
...is death.
Some people might say you're readin' an awful lot in...
...to a simple thing like...
...fishin'.
Some people might.
LONG +++$+++
Doc!
Mason.
Shit! Oh, shit.
LONG +++$+++
Call an ambulance.
No...
The compound has to be kept cold...
...or it'll ignite.
Cold? Cold. How cold?
Never let it reach fifty degredegrees.
And what if it does?
Everything will die, Mason.
You're the only one I can trust.
The only one who understands what this me...
...mmeans, Mason.
Doctor.
Yeah, I just....
Tryin' to remember somethin' somebody once told me about tyin' a fly.
And only then does our noble friend realize...
...that the prey can bite back.
Let me have those.
Morning, doc. Awful early, aren't ya?
Couldn't sleep, Pumper. Is everything, uh, all right tonight?
There's nothin' goin' on out there, doc...except maybe the occasional fly fisherman.
LONG +++$+++
Hey, doc. Might wanna...
...try this one out some...
...time.
Excellent.
PUMPER +++$+++
Deputy Art Lewis, Jerome County Sheriff's Department.
Uhhuh.
I don't suppose you'd like to tell me what this is all about.
I will tell you what I...
What the hell are you talkin' about...
...colonel?
Have you I.D.'d the bodies?
Well, I've got Dr. Long's body down at the coroner's office.
One of our units is pursuing a suspect up the thirty...
...five.
Who's your suspect?
A man named Tim Ma...
...son.
Run a check. FBI, Interpol.
Mason? No, he's a sodajerk drifter, a hamburger flipper.
It could be a cover, I suppose.
That little geek is my...
...son.
All right. Enough. Look...
Thanks.
It must've happened right after we left.
Missoula's reporting the refrigerator truck as a stolen vehicle. I told you Mason was walking shit.
Pappas, that other guy was unloading ice cream into a freezer. Now, what could he have to do with a military scientist, huh?
The sooner you get up the lab, the sooner you'll figure it out.
LEWIS +++$+++
And where are you going?
After that re...
Colonel, sir, who the hell is this guy?
He was Major Andrew Bryn...
It's not over, Brynner.
Sir, we can't just let him get away with this!
Gomez, you fight the battles you can win. Now, we've been outmaneuvered here. Brynner's next move is gonna be to get Elvis out of the country and sell him to the highest bidder. To do that, he has to have planned an exit point. That's where we intercept him. That's where we make our play. Now you and your men back off.
All right, let's move...
VITELLI +++$+++
What's going on, colonel?
Here's what I want you to do.
...that tunnel.
Get ready to take it out!
Is Elvis out?
Negative. Negative.
Hit it...
...now!
INT. POSTAL VAN  DAY.
No sign of 'em...
INT. VITELLI'S HELICOPTER  DAY.
Fortynine?
INT. VITELLI'S HELICOPTER  DAY.
Major, we've gotta seal that tunnel! Major!
INT. TUNNEL  DAY.
Great. All right...
...we're gonna seal that tunnel! I want it air...
...tight!
INT. TUNNEL  DAY.
Video lock.
You got thirty minutes.
INT. U.S. RESEARCH LABORATORY/CORRIDOR  NIGHT.
It's after five...
INT. DARLENE'S STORE  NIGHT.
Rangers.
Go.
EXT. DAM  DAY.
Sir, I got Taipei grindin' on me here. How long is this supposed to ta?
EXT. DAM  DAY.
Geneva just pulled the plug.
Kabula's out.
EXT. DAM  DAY.
Oh, caught a few, lost a few.
Story of my life. Well, one thing you won't lose is that friend of yours back there, I'll tell you that.
Oh, no?
Oh, you're two of a kind, doc. Oh, he may not have your sheepskins, and...
...well, most of the time he looks like something the cat might have dragged in, but, you know...
...he's smart enough to get you...
...somehow.
There's something else too.
Uh, we both like to fish.
Secrets.
Ah.
His I know. Yours I don't have a clue. But if it wasn't for you, I think he'd have drifted right on through this town.
DARLENE +++$+++
You know, I have yet to get a simple cup of coffee and a meal in this place, Darlene.
And you ain't gonna start now.
MASON +++$+++
Goddamn it, Ma...
...son. Of all the days for you to show up late. First, the idiot April calls in sick. Then I got a bad tooth...
...and then my night man shows up when he feels like...
...it.
Darlene, it's fivethirty. Now, I worked late for you this mornin', and you didn't wanna spring for over...
...time, remember?
Oh. Well, I have got to get to the dentist be...
...fore he closes, which means you're gonna have to cover the grill and the floor.
I can handle it.
Mm. It doesn't take a genius.
Yeah?
Be sure you feed Bosco.
And don't give him any ice cream...
...like April. It gives him gas. And make sure there's two pots of coffee...
Two pots of coffee...
...ready before the morning crowd blows in.
...ready before the morning crowd blows in. I got it...
We gotta get help. Aw, fuck! Damn.
Mornin'.
Is this your establishment?
Yeah, they call me Dar...
....lene.
Well, then, how about a cup of coffee, Darlene?
Iced coffee.
I assume you want that to go.
Assumptions are always...
...dangerous.
Quite a getup for jacking...
...deer.
I beg your pardon?
Uh, you wanna hunt outta season, it's cool with me. But mostly, well, they just take a six...
...and a rifle. You, on the other hand...
...look like you're after something more dangerous.
Actually, I was just looking for a restroom.
I assume you have one.
Assumptions are always dangerous.
Doc...
...Long.
Doc Long. Yeah, I know him. Weirdo guy. He comes in from...
...time to time, yeah.
Not tonight...
...though.
BRYNNER +++$+++
Odd, then, that his car...
...should be right outside.
Like I say, Doc Long's...
Yeah?
Contrary to what Dr. Long may have told you, this is neither...
...your concern nor your fight. Relinquish the package and you can go.
I don't know what the hell...
I want you to look at one another...
...and ask a simple question  Are you actually prepared...
...to die for a country that's...
...never done a thing for you?
Because if you don't give me that cylinder, your lives will end...
...on this miserable road to nowhere.
And I can't guarantee the end will be quick.
Elvis is fuckin' dead, man. Get yourself some CDs.
Hello.
I got someone who's anxious to talk to you, Mr. Mason.
Yeah, I'm listenin'.
Then meet me at the dam in fifteen minutes.
I don't see my container.
You try anything, it goes in...
...the river.
It's a little late for matinee heroics, Mason. Just give me the con...
...tainer!
Where's Arlo?
Bring him up.
MASON +++$+++
Your fellow hero, untouched...
...and unharmed, de...
...spite the mouth.
Him first.
MASON +++$+++
MASON +++$+++
MASON +++$+++
BRYNNER +++$+++
MASON +++$+++
BRYNNER +++$+++
MASON +++$+++
It won't be long, gentlemen.
MASON +++$+++
MASON +++$+++
MASON +++$+++
MASON +++$+++
MASON +++$+++
MASON +++$+++
MASON +++$+++
MASON +++$+++
No.
Where's Elvis?!
Dead, last time I...
...checked.
MASON +++$+++
BRYNNER +++$+++
BRYNNER +++$+++
MASON +++$+++
BRYNNER +++$+++
BRYNNER +++$+++
MASON +++$+++
MASON +++$+++
BRYNNER +++$+++
Why? You're a nothing, nobody! Why?
You'd never understand!
I would've in another life.
MASON +++$+++
They took that life away and left me with nothing.
Hemmings! Sam, I thought I told you to close up shop and be ready to move up the island by night...
...fall.
Yes, Captain Brynner, you did, butbut
But...
...what, Sam? Can't I go down to the loading dock for a few hours without coming back to find a major...
...screwup?
Uh, with all due respect, sir, Dr. Long told me to prep the field for detonation at...
...noon.
Jesus Chri We're on a very slippery slope here, Sam. A covert military operation riddled with civilian...
...scientists.
You don't think it's that bad, do you, sir? I mean, Long's spent the last two years developing his defoliant. The stuff can't even kill crabgrass yet.
Where's their protective...
...gear?
It's a hundred degrees...
...out here, captain. Don't you think the guys deserve a break?
They'll get a break tomorrow.
This river ends at a hydro dam...
...in Missoula. All we need to do is get to Mason before anyone else does.
Carl, Dennis, get out of sight.
Officer Pappas, I'm glad you're here.
Mind if you tell me what's goin' on?
I'm Colonel Brynner, U.S. Special Operations Com...
...mand out of Fort Bragg.
We were called in by the Jerome base...
...to pursue a man who's stolen government proper...
...ty.
Right. Tim Mason.
You know the suspect?
Yeah, he's wanted in connection with a death this morning at the Jerome...
...general store.
Richard Long.
That's right.
Long went missing from the Tech Center this morning along with a very dangerous...
Vaughn.
We're in.
There.
Check it out.
It's clean.
Check the immediate area.
This was supposed to be a...
...quick in and out.
You have ten percent of a hundred million dollars comin' your way. I think we can impose on you for a little overtime.
Sir, all potential customers have been informed of the delay. Fur...
...ther orders?
No. A pair of average citizens have decided to risk their lives for their country. I almost remember what that feels like.
Vaughn, get the Mseventynine ready.
You can't fire on them. You're gonna detonate the crystals.
Prep the launcher now.
Shit.
Just when we have all the cards, Vaughn. Take these two behind the van.
Move!
Dennis!
Get your links set up!
I wanna patch in from...
...here!
What about these two?
We're gonna use them for demonstration footage.
Having witnessed the effects myself, I can assure you it'll be very useful when the bidding starts.
Get 'em in the middle of the dam.
Sir.
I'm on it.
Stay put. Keep the camera trained on...
BRYNNER +++$+++
EXT. FORT LEAVENWORTH  TEN YEARS LATER  DAY.
BRYNNER +++$+++
INT. U.S. RESEARCH LABORATORY/LONG'S OFFICE  NIGHT.
This is it.
INT. U.S. RESEARCH LABORATORY/STORAGE AREA/FREEZER VAULT  NIGHT.
BRYNNER +++$+++
INT. LONG'S CAR  NIGHT.
Move. This is already affecting our schedule.
INT. BRYNNER'S VAN  NIGHT.
Dennis, radio the bikes. I wanna know if so much as a squirrel...
EXT. BRYNNER'S VAN  NIGHT.
...comes up that road.
INT. DARLENE'S STORE  NIGHT.
Well. It appears someone's been lying to us.
INT. DARLENE'S STORE  DAY.
BRYNNER +++$+++
Radio the bikes.
INT. BRYNNER'S VAN  DAY.
Dutiful citizens, you have something which I have waited years for.
INT. BRYNNER'S VAN  DAY.
You have no idea what you're in possession of, do you?
INT. ICE CREAM TRUCK/CAB  DAY.
BRYNNER +++$+++
And so Missoula's prodigal son returns.
INT. HARDWARE STORE  DAY.
Of which we have more than enough.
INT. HELICOPTER  DAY.
All right. Tell the pilot we'll be a halfhour.
EXT. DAM  DAY.
Carl! Set up the camera.
INT. BRYNNER'S VAN  DAY.
Carl, establish contact with that deputy we met earlier. He'll be more useful now.
INT. POSTAL VAN  DAY.
Hit him.
INT. POSTAL VAN  DAY
Hit him again.
INT. POSTAL VAN  DAY.
BRYNNER +++$+++
INT. VITELLI'S HELICOPTER  DAY.
BRYNNER +++$+++
EXT. MOUNTAINTOP  DAY.
Get 'em on line, then stall. Long can't have gotten far.
Closin' down, sir.
Vaughn, Burke, move to the end of the street. Fan out and work your way back to the motel.
There's nothing in here, sir. They got away with it.
All right. Let's clear the mess and move out.
CARL +++$+++
Besides, how are we gonna sell something we don't have?
Nothing has changed, I assure you both. The Army still thinks we got Elvis. They had a tactical withdrawal. It's just those two amateurs now. Do you really want to concede a hundred million dollars to them?
Do you know what'll...
...happen if I drop this?
Brynner.
Well, Lieutenant Vitelli.
Good to see you again, Leo.
Pleasant surprise.
I can't say it's a surprise.
And I certainly can't say it's pleasant.
As soon as I heard Elvis was on the loose, you came to mind.
I checked your release date. I never liked coincidences.
And I don't like deviations from plans, Leo, as I'm sure you re...
Yeah, I had a small problem with members of our side murdering civil...
...ians. But I assure you, Leo...
...I lost all my squeamishness at Leav ...
...enworth. I'll have no compunction at all about using this.
Hm. The wind's northwest. That oughta be...Seattle.
Or I may be wrong. The breeze could be gusting south. That'd be Billings...
...maybe even Salt Lake, not to mention Casper...
...Destry, Fair Oaks....
Knowing you, Brynner, you've got buyers waiting to buy! You're not gonna use that...
...here!
And I'm warning you, Leo. Don't test me. Get your men and your machines off my radar screen in five, or three million people will die.
I'll do it.
Tell the choppers we're lifting off!
Doc...
...tor Long.
What the hell is all this about a detonation today? We're scheduled...
...to be off the island tonight.
And I changed the schedule.
I don't work for you, Captain Brynner.
Sweeney tells me you don't have computer confirmation?
You know, captain, if you hadn't spent so much of your career questioning your superiors, you might've found yourself with more gold leaf on your col...
...lar.
This isn't some kind of pissing contest, Long. You may be in charge here, but those men out there are my responsi...
...bility.
Look, this is a scientific experiment, okay?
If it works, your stock at the Pentagon will go up along with mine. I don't think I need to mention you could use the help.
The NSA thinks the UN is onto your work...
...here, and the White House is screaming about chemical weapons, and we're...
...sittin' here with our hands in the goddamn cookie jar! And let me tell you something else. I didn't join the service to let people like you turn...
...the United States into the kind of country we're supposed to be fighting against.
But you have no choice but to follow orders.
Now listen to me.
Now, I know. You have moral objections to what we're doing here, but believe...
...me, if I thought there was any real danger, II wouldn't go forward.
You have my word on that.
All right. One more shot, provided... we're off the island tonight.
Let's proceed.
"I am become Death, the...
...destroyer of worlds."
No!
No!
BRYNNER +++$+++
You'll kill us all!
Damn you, Long! My people are out there! Your people are out there!
It's too...
Andrew...
...I wish they would've let me say something...
...about
There's nothing to say, doctor. Someone had to take the fall, and they still need you, whereas...I've never been anything more than a thorn in their collective side, as you once said.
LONG +++$+++
Is this stool taken?
No, go
You look good, Richard.
You look fit...healthy...
...not at all like a man responsible for the deaths of eighteen peo...
...ple.
Is that why you're here? To blame...
...me? Well, you could've saved yourself the trip.
I know where the blame belongs. But I didn't put you in prison, Andrew. The government did...
...that.
Oh, I'm well aware of what the government did, I assure you. Actually, I've just come to say how grateful I am to you...
...and the government.
Grateful?
Mmhm.
Together, you gave me the opportunity to realize just how very wrong my life had gone.
Do you remember telling me once that all through my career, I'd never fit in? Well...
...you were right, of course. But after...
...years of thinking the matter over, I began to see that the whole thing wasn't really my problem.
What rational man could fit in with the sorts of things our government was doing? The sorts of things you've...
...always done, Richard?
Do you think I haven't seen the bodies of those...
...men every time I've closed my eyes? But after you went away, I
Went away?
"Went away." I like that.
Almost quaint.
All right. After they put you away...
...I began trying to find ways of controlling the effects of the weapon that we tested on Horn Island.
And let me guess. You failed.
So far, yeyes.
Why is it you scientists can create implements of destruction...
LONG +++$+++
Forget about him.
Colonel Vitelli. We got a bustedin cold vault inside.
Is it?
Looks like it. Yes, sir.
Alert seventyfifth rangers. Code Blue. Tell them Elvis has left the building.
They were all wearing hardware.
Any of them Richard Long?
No, sir.
Yes, sir.
If you're right, Lewis, this Mason is one hell of a pro. He must have a service record and a paper trail some...
MASON & ARLO +++$+++
ARLO +++$+++
MASON & ARLO +++$+++
MASON & ARLO +++$+++
ARLO +++$+++
Whoohoohoo! Whoohoohoo!
MASON & ARLO +++$+++
Whoohoo!
Are you crazy?! Take the boat?!
MASON & ARLO +++$+++
ARLO +++$+++
What? Say again...
...Mason. I can barely hear you.
We've got it...
...on ice! We've got Elvis on ice!
Hold it!
All right, gentlemen. We're about done here. Fine job.
Thank you.
Your country and a lot of innocent people in it...
...owe you.
Us. Owe us.
We do have to take into consideration that, through your courage...
...and selfless actions, you did save millions of lives.
Exactly.
However, you are also nonen...
...listed personnel with detailed knowledge of classified secrets falling under the National Security Act.
In order to protect those secrets, I am authorized to fine you, imprison you...
...to take any extreme measures I deem necessary...
...including the permanently extreme.
I'd say we're about even.
You got a prob...
...lem too?
No, sir. I've never seen this guy before.
PAPPAS +++$+++
Sure as hell have met a few assholes like that, though.
Well, why don't they talk to the sage of Jerome here?!
What the hell's a sage?
Listen, deputy.
He's the dude...
...the guy the Army guys are lookin' for!
Bullshit. Put the phone down, Mason.
Yeah, that's my truck.
Mason, you have to take this...
...to Fort McGruder in his truck.
Wait. This town is full of trucks. Nice new trucks. You don't need to go...
...take my sorry old truck.
We do need your truck.
So you called the damned thing Elvis
I had no idea how powerful it was.
Eighteen men were k killed in sec...
...onds...with just a fraction of what's in...
...here. Mason...
ARLO +++$+++
...about the man who did this, he'she's comin' after it.
YouYou can't let him...
...have it. You have to...have to get it to M...to McGruder.
Hey, actually...
Well, that just about figures for today.
So...where's my truck?
It's, uh, parked just off of Highway ThirtyFive.
I did what I could for you...
...Arlo, and you screwed me for it. Now, where's my goddamn truck?
I ain't got time to argue with you today, Andy. But I can tell you this. Takin' your truck pissed you off?
Why don't you get that tub of shit Sam to...
...help you?
Look, I'm sorry. I'll make it up to you. Whatever you want. Please!
Hey.
Hey, be cool.
Be cool. Be
That was quick.
BRYNNER +++$+++
To tell you the truth, we're looking for a scientist who's gone missing from the Tech Center. Maybe you know him. Richard Long.
We're worried...
...about him.
I'll keep an eye out.
Give it to me now, or you'll be dead...
...within five minutes.
It's for you.
What'd he say?
Don't be tedious, waiter. Dr. Long called it Elvis.
ARLO +++$+++
Listen, shithead!
I got three thousand dollars of highly perishable ice cream products that taste bad enough when it's...
...frozen! So if you don't mind!
Just give me Elvis and I'll make sure you have enough money for a dozen ice cream trucks.
I don't ever wanna see another ice cream...
Your move. Okay, Vaughn, you drive.
Oh, my God.
I urge you to be persuasive.
This country trained me to kill...
...without compunction.
Well, well, well.
Funny situation, ain't it, Andy?
Three seconds. One...
BRYNNER +++$+++
ARLO +++$+++
ARLO +++$+++
And it won't be pleasant.
But...
...such is the price...of patriotism.
Vaughn.
Hey!
ARLO +++$+++
BRYNNER +++$+++
A little early for a delivery.
Oh...
...yeah. Tryin' to get most of my day done before it hits nine...
...ty.
Where's Sam?
Sam? Andy gave Sam a nice big desk to park his fat ass behind.
Where do you want this stuff?
Freezer in the back.
Great.
Art.
That's my business.
No argument there.
The guy's a fuckin' moron.
Hey, I'm with you on that one, my man. Prick.
Look, you need me to sign an invoice or somethin'?
Uh, between this month and last month, you owe four hundred and seventeen dollars. And we need that in cash.
Since when does...
...Darlene pay you in cash?
Since today. New policy.
MASON +++$+++
Yeah, well, Darlene didn't say anything about it to me, so tell Andy to bill her like usual and let them sort it out. Move.
ARLO +++$+++
Well, he told me to collect cash.
Andy. Another fuckin'...
...moron.
Hey, you and I are seein' eye to eye on a whole range of issues this mornin'.
Uh, huh?
Except for the fact that I need cash.
He could've called first.
He could've. ThatThat's true. But that would've been smart...
...and fair...
...two things Andy is not. Uh, but I tell you what.
Bein' that it's cash, I'm gonna give you ten percent...
...off. Say, uh, three seventyfive. Seein' that we both have so much love...
...for Andy, I'll tell him I lost a few cartons comin' over the mountain.
That'll make up the difference, huh?
Huh?
Well, Darlene usually gives me a signed check for emergencies. I could always give you that.
Oh.
Why don't I?
No, no, no, no, no, no. Wait.
Aw! Oh, Jesus.
Hang on. Hang on.
Sorry, man. He's dead.
No.
What did I say?
Dude in uniform get in your face, you do not shoot your mouth off.
I need your truck.
ARLO +++$+++
No, no, no. You don't need my truck. You need somebody else's truck...
...and a shitload of ice.
Look, if I don't get this stuff to McGruder, it's goodbye, Andy's Ice Cream, goodbye, Jerome, goodbye, Mon...
...tana.
Wait, wait. You don't believe the dead guy, do...
...ya?
Yeah, I believe him. He was my friend.
For cryin' out loud.
Hey, listen! Do you know what I think? I...
...think he was a wacko. And I think that G.I. ninja's a bigger wacko. And I think you're the biggest wack...
...o of all, wantin' to be a part of this wacko shit!
I need your help.
You are seriously mistaken if you think you are going anywhere in my...
...truck.
Then you drive me to McGrud...
...er.
Look...I got two tons of the world's nastiest ice cream sittin' in a truck that should've been retired ten years ago. That shit will be worthless by noon.
And if that Elvis shit...
...is as dangerous as you seem to think it is, I'm gettin' my ass as far away from you and it as possible.
Peace.
All right.
ARLO +++$+++
Wait, wait, wait. Hold up. Hold up. Look.
You want cash?
You want cash?
I got, like, uh....
I got, uh....
I got fifty bucks. I'll get more.
I'll rent the truck from you. You can stay here, you can go. Whatever you want.
No.
All right, then how about this?
Hey, you're gonna piss me What the hell are you supposed to be...
...doing?!
I need your truck!
You are not takin' my truck!
Go on.
Would you hurry up, please?
Look, put this in the back. Keep it safe.
ARLO +++$+++
There we go. There we go. Did you keep it safe? Did you
What the hell is with you, dog? He's the one with the damn gun.
You gave him ice cream, didn't you? Come on, let's go.
Yeah, to keep him off my ass.
What did you do that for? It makes him mean as a snake.
That dog was mean before I met him.
That dog ain't mean.
I'm gonna stomp your a
Come on, get in the truck.
I'm gonna bust a mudhole in your ass. I'm gonna Don't tell me to shut It's none of your business. Man, I can talk all I want to.
Shut...
...up.
Are you kiddin'?
MASON +++$+++
Come on!
Damn.
What the hell's goin' on?
It happens to this piece of shit...
...all the time.
Damn diesel injections are flood...
Excuse me...
...ed.
...excuse me. Can you fix this?
Do you wanna give me a minute?
MASON +++$+++
You'd better coast through...
...town.
ARLO +++$+++
We're clear.
Oh, man.
No cell.
Suppose you're gonna shoot me because you can't get service on my cell phone.
Billings? No, no, no, no, no. We need to go to McGruder.
No, you gotta go to McGrud...
...er.
No, no, no, no, no. We gotta go to McGruder! I go where the truck goes!
No, no, no.
To get to McGruder, you have to go through Missoula, and I ain't goin' to Missoula.
No way. We're goin' through McGrud...
...er.
I ain't goin' through Missoula!
Am I missing somethin' here?
Look...I kinda borrowed the truck from Andy.
Borrowed.
Yeah, borrowed!
You stole this truck.
You stole this truck!
I did not steal this truck!
You stole this truck! That's...
...what all the bullshit about the cash was, wasn't it?! You stole this truck, and now you're trying to sell...
...the ice cream for money!
I didn't steal the truck! He owed it to me! Anyway, the important thing is I'm not goin' through Missoula!
Look, I don't give a shit if you go through Missoula at a hundred miles an hour. We're goin' to McGruder.
I'm about to get in your ass like last year's underwear, man.
That's...
...fine.
I ain't playin' that.
Shut up.
MASON +++$+++
Hey.
We can't push old Pete in this heat. He can't take it.
Fine.
ARLO +++$+++
God...
...damn!
Okay, okay!
Ah, one of them's in the back.
No, no, no, no, no. Keep goin'.
Okay.
MASON +++$+++
ARLO +++$+++
MASON +++$+++
MASON +++$+++
You're nuts, goin' back there!
Shut up.
ARLO +++$+++
Take your gun!
Doesn't work.
What?
Doesn't...
...work! It's not even load...
...ed.
You mean to tell me you hijacked me with an empty gun?!
Oh, shit.
MASON +++$+++
MASON +++$+++
MASON +++$+++
MASON +++$+++
Oh...
Get him to stand up, Night Shift.
All right.
Okay! All right!
MASON +++$+++
Elvis is on ice again.
Okay.
Nice job back there.
MASON +++$+++
Don't gimme that "nice job" shit, man! They still got a vanload comin', and what do you got besides an empty...
...gun?!
I was thankin' you, asshole!
Kiss my ass!
MASON +++$+++
Probably because they know a psycho when they hear one.
No...
...I'm not the psycho.
Hey, take a look at your situation and...
...reconsider that statement there, Night Shift. You're psy...
...cho and a hijack...
...er!
Hi! The gun was empty!
Every time I look at you, I wanna hit...
...you.
You wanna hit me?
And I'm a peaceful man, and...
...I believe in live and...
Yeah...
...let live.
...you stole the truck to uphold your principles, right?
I did not steal the truck.
MASON +++$+++
It was owed to me. You stole the damn...
...truck!
Shut up, shut up! It's beeping.
Well, then, that means it's call...
...waiting!
You snatch that phone from me one more time, I'm
Hey! Hey! Andy's Ice Cream.
ARLO +++$+++
MASON +++$+++
Oh!
Holy shit...
...man!
Oh, shit.
Back up! Back...
...up!
ARLO +++$+++
Come on, old...
...Pete! Come on! There it...
...is, old Pete! Come on, baby!
All right, you got it.
Fuck!
MASON +++$+++
Oh, shit.
Oh, we're screwed, Night...
...Shift.
You can just bend over and kiss your crazy ass goodbye, buddy!
I think...
...we can make it.
You think we can make what?! You see that truck?!
Eight and a half feet wide! Weighs over five tons!
Hey, and what if we don't make it?!
MASON +++$+++
Your weedkiller on steroids goes down with us! Everybody dies!
I don't think we have much of a choice...
...do we?
Oh, shit.
That's right. Now, move!
ARLO +++$+++
MASON +++$+++
Oh, shit.
Okay.
Okay.
ARLO +++$+++
Goddamn!
Oh, Petey. Oh, Petey. Oh, please, Pete. Please don't do this to me. Okay.
I should've had that dog bite me. I would've gotten rabies! Could've went to the hospital, had a pretty nurse!
Hey, hey! Whoo! Okay.
Go, go, go, go, go. Oh, shit.
Oh, shit.
Come on, old Pete.
Come on!
Come on, old Pete.
God, man!
I'm goin'. I'm goin', baby. I'm goin', I'm goin'.
Oh...
...easy, easy, easy.
Left, left, left!
Get over! Get over!
Come on.
Oh, shit. Come on, old...
...Pete! Come on.
Come on, old Pete. Oh.
I know the likeli...
...hood of you knowin' any prayers is slim...
...Night Shift, but you might...
...wanna give it a try!
Come on, old...
...Pete. Come on.
MASON +++$+++
Come on.
Come on.
Come on...
...you crazy bastard.
All right, you got it, you got it!
Whoo!
Whoo!
I made it!
I made it.
What are you talkin' about?! I'm the one drivin'!
You okay?
What the fuck was that?!
Shit. You gotta pass him.
Gee, you think so?
Holy!
Okay. That didn't work.
Gee, you think so?
Shut up!
ARLO +++$+++
Ho, ho...
Oh...
...ho!
...shit!
MASON +++$+++
ARLO +++$+++
Hang on!
Hey!
ARLO +++$+++
MASON +++$+++
ARLO +++$+++
Shit.
Go on.
Go, go.
MASON +++$+++
ARLO +++$+++
Oh, Pete. Oh, shit! Oh, shit!
MASON +++$+++
No. Shit.
Come on.
Oh, shit. Oh, shit.
Oh, shit. It's okay. Okay.
MASON +++$+++
Okay.
All right.
Okay.
All right.
Gimme that, gimme that, gimme that.
Okay. Okay.
These'll keep it cold.
Yeah...
...yeah.
Aw, shit
ARLO +++$+++
All right, let's go.
ARLO +++$+++
Okay. All right. Okay.
ARLO +++$+++
Hey, put it back! We're takin' off.
Listen! Listen...
...to him! You don't know who...
...you're dealin' with!
I'm a dangerous man!
Yeah, he's a dangerous...
...man!
He's crazy!
I'm crazy?
MASON +++$+++
Taking it down the hill.
You're? What?!
MASON +++$+++
You're not dangerous! You're crazy! I ain't gettin' in this damn thing!
Then stay...
...here!
Oh, shit. Okay. Come on.
I don't want you to come anyway.
What?
Come on!
Oh, shit.
ARLO +++$+++
MASON +++$+++
Keep still.
Okay. Okay.
ARLO +++$+++
MASON +++$+++
Oh, shit!
No!
Oh, no!
Oh, no!
MASON +++$+++
ARLO +++$+++
MASON +++$+++
All right. Hey.
MASON +++$+++
ARLO +++$+++
MASON +++$+++
MASON +++$+++
Whoohoohoo!
Uhoh.
What?
This thing just went up a degree. Ice cream's not workin'.
This river's fed by a glacier. Willing to bet my life that it's a good deal under fifty degrees.
Okay.
Worth a try.
MASON +++$+++
Hey, you didn't happen to lock the truck up when you got out...
...did you?
You're fucked, man.
See, now why would you do that to a man in my posi...
...tion?
Hey, I didn't steal the truck. You...
...stole the truck.
Hey, I told you I did not steal that truck. Andy owes me a lot more than that fourwheeled...
...piece of shit was worth.
It won't even start half the time.
You know what I'm sayin'?
I deserve a lot more than that truck! Ten years, ten years I busted my ass for that fat rat bastard.
And he swore, he swore once I got a degree...
...there'd be a sales rep desk with my name on it. But every time something opened up, there'd be some idiot cousin...
...or nephew or some good old boy...
...just ready to just slide him right in there. And what about me, huh? What about Arlo, huh? What about my needs? You know, I got aI got student loans...
...overdrawn bank accounts.
Nobody's lookin' out for my interests. My credit was fucked! And then when he promoted Sam over me, I just snapped. So I split.
So you took his...
...truck.
So I took his truck, yeah.
Yeah.
You know.
You know, four years ago, I was a split end at Kentucky State.
We were nationally ranked.
How wonderful for you.
Started every game my senior year. Not allAmerican or anything, but not bad. Anyway, the real star was my best friend, the quarterback. Got taken in the first round.
Robert Del Rio?
Yeah, Robert Del Rio.
I remember him. Got in a car crash or somethin'.
We were celebrating right after the draft, going from bar to bar. I was drivin'.
And I put the car into a ditch. He spent eighteen weeks in the...
...hospital.
Never gonna throw a ball in the pros.
Couldn't deal with it. So I split.
And things sort of just went downhill from there.
Anyway, about ten months ago, I wound up in Jerome, workin' for Darlene.
Well, shit. Could be worse. I mean, we're both up shit's creek, but at least we have a paddle.
We got two paddles.
ARLO +++$+++
Listen, Arlo...
...for whatever it's worth, I'm sorry I dragged you into this...
...shit.
To tell you the truth, you didn't.
Not completely, anyway.
I mean, if that gun was...
...loaded, I didn't buy you as a shoot ...
...er. It was your friend...
...Long. Somethin' about that look in his eye when he talked about that Elvis...
...shit.
Well, all the same. If we get to Missoula, help me find a car. I'd appreciate it. Then...you can...
...split.
Split? I wouldn't get ten...
...miles.
MASON +++$+++
Like I said, I got a pretty good idea of what's at stake here.
MASON +++$+++
That is loud! I'm
Whoo!
Yeah, baby!
All right, all right. Hey, hey.
Hey. Mason.
Yeah.
I think you oughta cut a...
...deal with this asshole.
Even though it is nice to see Andy...
...squirm, I don't want his brains all over my shirt...
...or my conscience.
AAnd you owe me...
...man.
Yeah, I know, I know.
ARLO +++$+++
Bring him down!
ARLO +++$+++
You all right?
Bullshit. You would've killed us anyway.
MASON +++$+++
Ow!
ARLO +++$+++
MASON +++$+++
Are you all right?
No.
Listen, Arlo.
MASON +++$+++
Hey!
They're takin' off.
Huh?
They're movin'.
MASON +++$+++
Hey, just shut up.
We're gonna die!
Arlo, shut up.
ARLO +++$+++
We're gonna die!
We're gonna die!
Hey, hey, hey.
ARLO +++$+++
Put your hand in my pants.
What?
MASON +++$+++
We're gonna die, and you want me to do some freaky shit like that?!
Arlo! Arlo.
Reach into my pocket.
ARLO +++$+++
Come on!
Oh.
Okay.
Yeah.
Okay.
MASON +++$+++
Okay. All right, man. Okay.
ARLO +++$+++
Okay.
All right. Okay.
MASON +++$+++
Okay.
MASON +++$+++
Arlo!
MASON +++$+++
I'm sorry. I'm a little
MASON +++$+++
ARLO +++$+++
Okay.
MASON +++$+++
Come on, come on!
Okay, here we go.
MASON +++$+++
Come here.
Go, go, go!
ARLO +++$+++
You just can't leave that stuff with that lu...
MASON +++$+++
...natic.
That's why I didn't give it...
...to him.
What?
You got Elvis?!
Sometimes the prey bites back.
Go!
ARLO +++$+++
Stop.
MASON +++$+++
Hang...
...on!
MASON +++$+++
Aw, shit. Would you be more care...
...ful?!
Okay. Okay.
Oh, fuck!
Fortyfive seven!
Oh, shit.
Okay.
We!
I've got the real thing!
We've got Elvis!
Here...
...they come!
And Brynner's right on...
...our ass!
He's comin' up fast!
Okay...
...here comes the...
...tunnel!
Tunnel.
Whoo!
Whoo!
Fortyseven. You'd better floor it.
What do you think I'm doin'?!
What the hell?
What the?
You've gotta be...
Stupid.
I'm gonna kill him.
Unbefuckinglievable.
MASON +++$+++
Shoot me.
What's it say?
Fortynine point four.
It says forty nine.
Mason.
What?
It's melting, man.
ARLO +++$+++
MASON +++$+++
All right
MASON +++$+++
Oh.
ARLO +++$+++
Come on. Come on.
ARLO +++$+++
What?
MASON +++$+++
What?
It's working.
ARLO +++$+++
MASON +++$+++
ARLO +++$+++
We got...
...ta get outta here!
Vitelli! Vitelli!
MASON +++$+++
Can we get out on your end of the tunnel?
Well, hell, the smoke's gonna kill us anyway!
There's gotta be...
...another way outta here. Hey.
Hold this.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
ARLO +++$+++
Sorry.
MASON +++$+++
Hang on, hang on.
Let's go!
Go.
Got it? Come on, darlin'. I gotcha.
Arlo, I'm gonna get Elvis. You go.
They'll meet you at the top.
Okay. Come on, big guy!
MASON +++$+++
MASON +++$+++
Look out.
What'd you come back for?!
Why'd you stay behind?!
MASON +++$+++
ARLO +++$+++
MASON +++$+++
ARLO +++$+++
ARLO +++$+++
Elvis is still in there! It's gonna go off!
Well.
MASON +++$+++
You know, we saved half a million people from a fullbody peel.
MASON +++$+++
We're the shit. Bigtime.
They aren't exactly gonna publicize this, Arlo.
HeyHeyHeyHeyHey. We are heroes, my man. It's time to start actin' like it.
MASON +++$+++
Stop limpin' around like that.
Excuse me. I got a bullet in my leg.
Always the negative...
You did help a little.
Who drove the ice cream...
...truck that kept Elvis cool?
Who had to put a gun to your head?
Who put the big hurt on...
...that Army nut job to save your narrow butt?
You, Arlo.
Hello.
You.
Right. You damn skippy. And now that I am both jobless...
...andandand truckless in the service of my country...
...I feel that my government owes me a little restitution.
Us. Owes us.
I'll handle this from here, sweet Owes us a little restitution.
Patriotism is its own reward.
I think so too.
Yeah.
Thank you.
Thank you very much.
What about all that "no need to get in the man's...
...face" crap you've been telling me?
I was not in the man's face. I was nego...
...tiatin'.
Look. That's negotiating? He threatened to kill...
...us.
But he didn't. See, that's negotiation.
No.
That's bullshit.
Bullshit, yeah. Well...if we're not gonna be famous, at least this'll be a great story to tell some ladies in a bar or somethin'.
Arlo, nobody's gonna believe us.
Oh!
Oh, oh!
I feel faint.
Ooh.
You know, it's, uhit's very hushhush, as we say in the spy game.
Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
It all started with our mission in Istanbul.
Yeah.
I was undercover as a tennis player.
Yeah.
My code name was Blackjack. Night Shift was my coach. UhUhUh, I'm sorry. Mason was my coach.
MASON +++$+++
Uh, he handled rackets, and I carried the balls.
Yeah.
you see, that was athat was my mission.
big balls.
That's right.
What, do you work for my boss, dog?
Okay, okay.
At least somebody likes this shit.
INT. DARLENE'S STORE  NIGHT.
ARLO +++$+++
ARLO +++$+++
EXT. MOTEL  NIGHT.
help me get in the truck.
INT. ICE CREAM TRUCK/CAB  DAWN.
ARLO +++$+++
INT. ICE CREAM TRUCK/CAB  DAWN.
Oh...
...shit.
EXT. ROAD  DAY.
Oh, shit.
EXT. ROAD  DAY.
Unbefuckinglievable.
EXT. ICE CREAM TRUCK  DAY.
Damn.
INT. ANDY'S ICE CREAM FACTORY/STAIRWELL  DAY.
ARLO +++$+++
INT. ANDY'S ICE CREAM FACTORY/ANDY'S OFFICE  DAY.
ARLO +++$+++
EXT. HIGHWAY  DAY.
Shit!
INT. BRYNNER'S VAN  DAY.
It's a damn postal truck!
INT. POSTAL VAN  DAY.
Let me put it in easy terms, Aristotle. We are carrying a damn bomb...
...that is going to explode...
...if we don't get out of this tunnel!
INT. GOMEZ'S HELICOPTER  DAY.
Come on, Night Shift.
INT. TUNNEL  DAY.
I said no.
But you don't really mean it.
Maybe it won't stay in.
Maybe you better just drive me home.
Let me just ask you a serious question first.
What?
Aren't you worried you could die a virgin?
Yeah. I'm extremely worried about that. It's right up there with global warming.
On our way home, a drunken driver could hit us head on and send us flying through the windshield. Terminate us instantly. We'd never experience what it means to make love.
If sheep don't count.
That wasn't me ...
I know. I'm kidding you. Chill out.
Well I'm trying to be real here and you're mocking me.
I'm sorry, but you're not going to die a virgin Rod.
Rod!
You're being unfair.
Unfair?!
Yes. Unfair to me.
Stacy?
ROD!
There's Jan and Heather. Let's grab them quick before someone else does.
Ok.
Hide your laptop here.
No.
You can't bring it.
I'm not leaving it here.
Hey! That was a 3k machine.
Told you to hide it.
Dylan's been telling people that Annette gave him a blow job.
And she didn't?
Hi Mark, Cindy, Ben.
Hi Sandy.
You got a great mom. I'm lucky to get a zucchini stick.
Did you want one?
Yeah I was talking about Twinkies the other day and I realized I hadn't had one in years. Then I remembered seeing you with one.
They're tasty.
You can have both if you want.
No, you keep one.
You're so beautiful.
So are you.
Now don't be nervous.
You're the one who's hand is shaking.
You ok?
Just thinking about something.
What?
There's going to be very few virgins left in school on Monday. It could be really dangerous for them if the killer isn't caught.
I guess so. Luckily we won't have that problem.
What are you doing?
I got to go.
What?
I'm worried about someone.
Yes?
Are you Jody?
Yeah.
I'm Kenny's Aunt Lisa.
Kenny's aunt?
Yes. He asked me to come over and talk to you.
On what side of the family?
His mother's side.
His mother's an only child.
Hi mom.
Hi princess.
Mom?
Yes?
I need to ask you something.
You can ask me anything.
Have you ever heard of someone named Lisa Sherman?
Lisa Sherman?
Yeah. Who is she?
I don't know. Where did you hear that name.
I overheard daddy mentioning her to someone. I he thinks she's the killer.
What?
That's what he said.
Did he say anything else about her?
No but he got really weird. Like I've never seen him act. REALLY angry and super uptight.
I've never heard of her. Maybe something else was on his mind.
No. I think she lived her a long time ago. Like twentyeight years ago. When dad was eighteen.
Not that I know of.
Where are you going?
The library. I'll be fine.
I want you to come home with me right now, Jody.
Who is she?
She's nobody you should be concerned with.
Whoever tried to kill me was made up to look exactly like this picture of Lisa Sherman, clothes and all. I think that concerns me.
Don't make me order you.
Wait.
What?
I'm not leaving. I want to know why you and dad are so freaked out. Three of my classmates are dead.
Years ago, something horrible happened in this town. When I was still in high school. A girl named Elizabeth Sherman was attacked by four drunken seniors.
Attacked how?
She was raped. At least that's what she claimed.
You didn't believe her?
No, I believed her. She was in pretty bad shape. Inside and out. But the boys were never formally charged.
Why not?
They were children of our leading citizens, stars of the football team. And she was a loner. An angry girl that no one really liked. She'd called them 'queers'.
People thought these guys had a right to rape her because she called them 'queers'?
They were proving to her they weren't. They were very drunk. Things were different back then. You think kids are sexually bottled up today....
And the police did nothing?
EVERYONE JUST KIND OF LOOKED THE OTHER WAY.
How could you?
I don't know. We just did. I guess I was kind of scared going against the gain. Against the whole town.
The word is Mob.
I've regretted it ever since. Never run with the herd just because they're the herd.
Who were they?
Who?
The men. Do any of them still live around here?
Two men left town right after it happened.
You're not telling me something.
Mr. Sisler was one of them.
The principal?
Yes.
Who was the fourth?
THAT'S why he called Mr. Sisler first. He was one of them.
Not a day has gone by where your father has not torn himself to shreds for what happened. We both have...
NO!
Cut it out.
Why?
I was supposed to be home fifteen minutes ago.
So? You're already late. A few more minutes won't matter.
I got to get home.
Fuck your curfew. Most sixth graders can stay out later than you.
You know, maybe we ought to start seeing other people.
What?
Jody, we've been going out for over a year. I love you but I'm all out of patience.
Are you O.K.?
I'm fine.
I heard you got attacked.
I did.
I was worried about you. Did you hear about the bash?
Yeah. I think it's really sick.
Why?
Three of our classmates are dead. That's not really the occasion for a party.
Nobody wants to be the fourth. Please go with me.
Did Sharon say no?
You know I want to go with you.
I'm so flattered but I can't. I'm grounded.
Everyone's grounded. There's a killer on the loose.
No I'm really grounded. When I got in late the other night, my father was waiting up for me.
If you don't want to go with me just say so. Say 'Kenny, I DON'T WANT TO MAKE LOVE TO YOU' but don't use your dad as an excuse. I'm so sick of it.
I'm not using him as an excuse.
Yes you are. You always do. It's why we broke up. You always hide behind him.
I do not.
I feel like I NEED YOU DAD'S permission just to kiss you. Jody, it's time to assert yourself To be a big girl. An individual. I'm going to this party tonight. Jimmy's my ride. Come over to my house after school. We'll go together.
I have to go home after school. I have something really important I have to ask my mom.
They're not picking me up until six.
I'll think about it.
Yes!
All our parents are weirdoes. I think my dad is into hookers. I know he lit cats on fire when he was a kid.
My dad acts like he's Johnny Fucking Perfect and he's really Johnny Fucking Rapist.
I think this is a big part of growing up. It's losing your spiritual virginity. It's when you finally discover that your parents aren't anything they told you they were. They're even bigger hypocrites than your friends.
I can't believe I listened to one word of his shit.
But if he'd been sent to jail, there would be no Jody.
So I should feel happy that he got away with it?
I don't know. I kind of am.
Are you coming to the party?
Let's just start a party right here, right fucking now.
What's wrong? Am I doing something wrong?
Just making me feel like a piece of meat.
I'm making you feel like meat?
Yeah.
You break up with me because I won't fuck you.
That's not why we broke up.
You flaunt some slut in my face.
Sharon's far from a slut.
And when I finally agree to spread my legs, you accuse me of treating you like meat.
Jody, you're only doing this to get back at your dad. It doesn't have that much to do with me.
Please don't go. Please. Stay, We'll just talk. Then go to the party.
This party is sick.
Jody. Wait.
What?
I'm scared. Three kids are dead. I want to go to this party.
Then go to the party. Run with the herd Kenny. Just don't spew out all that 'be an individual, assert yourself' crap anymore.
My dad's down there!
He's dead! We've got to get the fuck out of here!
Go to the police station!
Deputy Webber's at the party. It's only three blocks away.
Thanks for coming back for me.
I love you.
Oh GOD IT'S HIM!
Quick! In the house. He won't look for us in there.
What are you doing?
Pretend we're just another couple.
Hi Jody. What can I DO for you?
Hi Miss Dunlop. Where do you keep the old town papers?
They're all on microfiche. What year are you looking for?
Twenty eight years ago.
Follow me.
This place is empty.
Everyone's getting ready for the party.
You heard about that?
Of course. NO ONE EVER SHUTS UP IN THE LIBARY. Kids were whispering about it all day.
Don't you think it's sick?
Not at all. In fact, I thought about going.
You Miss Dunlop?
Unfortunately I qualify. Think I'm too old?
No.
You're sweet. I really wish someone had thrown a party like that when I was your age. My life might have been very different.
Go sit next to him.
Who?
Mark Shale.
Why?
Don't you want to talk to him? You watch him eat everyday.
I don't watch him eat everyday.
You stare at him nonstop, like every lunch. Like this. Like most people stare at car accidents.
The seat behind him is open. Come on, I can eavesdrop too.
You eventually have to talk to him.
Why? All my mom and dad ever do is watch each other eat and they've been married for twenty years.
No! That's his table.
You're going to look really amoebic splitting off from me now.
What am I supposed to say? 'Nice sweater Mark'? 'Did you buy it at Eddie Bauer's?'
You could tell him you really liked the way he chews with his back molars.
You're so fucking lucky your dad is the sheriff.
You are 'sp fucking' wrong.
You get to be a little Chelsea Clinton. Everyone wants to meet you. Party with you. Have sex with you.
But you can't do any of it. So it sucks. I always have to 'set an example'.
He's just trying to mess with your head. Ignore him.
Does she fuck?
I doubt it. Who'd want to fuck her. She probably reeks worse than the docks down in those panties.
Oh nice save.
I was desperate. It was gross.
Kenny'll come running back. This is just his way of pressuring you.
He says he loves me.
Personally I think he has a deep, almost pathological desire to corrupt you. But I suppose that's a type of love. I certainly wish someone wanted to corrupt me.
Maybe I should blister through a bottle of Tequila and just fuck his brains out.
No!
You're the one always saying 'Just do it'.
That was before he pulled this 'Dick me or I dump you' shit. I say fuck his best friend.
I don't know what I'm so scared of.
Want to come in for awhile? Log onto AOL, flirt with some married men, head into a private S&M chat room . . .
How do you know what to type back when they start to cyber with you.
I keep a couple of my dad's porno books hidden in my desk for emergency reference.
I promised I'd go right home after school.
OK. increase the peace.
Sandy, you have to chill out, at least twothirds of the kids in our class are still virgins. He can't butcher all of us.
There will be a lot fewer by tomorrow night.
Not that many.
You watch. There's going to be a hymen holocaust tomorrow. Maybe I'll finally talk to Mark Shale.
NO?!
Someone tried to kill me.
The phone just went dead. I called the police and ran right over as fast as I could.
You ok?
FINE. Are you?
Hurricane Hormone. it's flattened the whole school. Guess what?
What?
Mark invited me to the party.
What party?
Shh. Ben's party. Tonight. Haven't you heard?
No.
You can't tell your parents.
Ok.
Especially not your dad.
I won't.
It's like a pop your cherry party. Everyone's saying it's 'Fuck or Die' time.
You're thinking of sleeping with Mark tonight?
Unless he makes a move during seventh period.
Didn't you have something a little more romantic in mind for your first time?
I kind of like the idea that we can all lose it together, on the same night. It'll be a lot less scary. You have to go.
Stag?
Kenny'll want to go with you. Cindy's holding a Q and A session at the bleachers. Come on.
I can't right now.
Jody, you have to go to the party. For your own safety.
I am.
My house is just a couple of blocks away. Why don't you come on over and clean those cuts up.
Ok. Should I put my bike in the back of your car?
Can you just follow me? The back is full?
Sure.
You aren't going to the party?
You know about that too?
of COURSE. You're not scared?
Of course I'm scared.
Then you should go.
You think I should go to the party, Mr. Marliston?
I really do. For your own safety.
We're all manipulated. From the moment we're born. The event that fatalistically shaped my life happened before I was even born.
Really?
Yes. We have no real freedom. You of all people should understand that. This may sting.
Me? Why me?
Because of your father. The way what his sins shaped you.
What do you know about my father?
He's a rapist. Like mine.
_ Your father raped someone?
Lisa Sherman was my mother. Do you know who that is?
Yes.
I was born nine months after she was raped. One of the four men who raped her is my father. I have no idea which one.
You're the killed.
Yes that's the whole point. This is what I was put on this earth to do. Rape the town that raped my mother. Steal its pristine innocence like it stole hers. I've planned this since I was a very little boy. You have no real freedom either. Your father has cast a shadow that you've never eluded.
Please! You wouldn't kill your sister, would you?
You think you're my sister?
Pay no attention to me.
What are you doing here?
You fucked me up!
What?
You gave me a 'D'.
I'm sure you should have failed.
I was grounded for two fucking months because of you!
Please get out of my way or I'll have to hurt you.
I knew you were a pervert. Always wearing those fucking doofy glasses, and driving a station wagon.
We just found another body.
Who's?
Tom Sisler. He was murdered at school. Two kids went into his office to fuck and they found him, with his tongue cut out and his foot jammed into his mouth. Killer also chopped off his pecker and stuffed it in his pencil holder.
Jesus. Any word from Brent?
Nope. The switchboard is lightning up downtown. Kids from other towns are starting to congregate in the parks and at the high school. It's turning into WOODSTOCK except there's no concert.
Call Brent on the horn. See where he is. What he wants us to do. I'll head over to the school.
Ok.
But I shouldn't shut it down?
No. Hell, it's the quietest goddamn party I've ever seen.
I know where you're going.
SANDY +++$+++
Your brother told us.
Daddy....
Shh. I'm not going to tell you not to go.
You're not?
No. I couldn't do that. I have something for you.
Hello?
I'm looking for Lisa Sherman.
She's not here.
You know where I can find her?
St. Michael's.
She works at a church?
She resides there. Out back. She died a year and a half ago.
Of what?
A bullet to the right cerebellum.
She was murdered?
No. She ate a pistol for lunch one day.
Can you describe her? How old was she?
I never met the woman. I'm just taking care of the place until they sell it.
Can you get inside?
I can.
I knew Lisa Sherman long ago. It's extremely important that I get inside and try to verify that it's the same woman who lived here.
I don't give a fuck what your reasons are. You pay me ten dollars, you can go inside Otherwise, get a warrant.
Is there a picture of her somewhere?
No pictures. No mirrors. Was she a crazy woman when you knew her?
No.
Couldn't tell she going to off herself, huh?
No, you couldn't.
I've been in a lot of people's houses and this one's the creepiest.
Really?
Yeah. You should check downstairs.
Why?
People always keep their secrets in their attics or in their basements. All the weirdness in this house took place in the basement.
What happened?
Two kids were found mutilated in the woods. Lock the door after me.
Is Jody still awake?
She just turned off her light.
Well?
She's still a virgin.
Did you warn her?
No. Let her get at least one more peacefully night's sleep.
What are you doing?
This will relax her.
She's underage.
What kind of a person wakes up in the morning and says to themselves, 'Think I'll nail a sixteen year old girl to a tree today'?
The same type that decides to carve into her stomach.
You found her?
There's a Lisa Shermer living just sixty miles west of here. Over the Indiana border. I'm going.
We need you here. I can bring her in.
No. I'll handle this.
As bizarre as it may sound, seems someone is planning to have a big party tonight.
No?
Should we close down any eruption?
Are you sure?
We're seeing all the signs in town.
I like the idea of all the kids in one place. If it happens, just keep a man outside until you hear from me. I'll be back in a couple of hours.
It's almost ten o'clock.
Daddy you scared me!
You're grounded Friday night!
What? I WAS AT SANDY'S I JUST LOST TRACK OF TIME.
Your curfew is 9:30 and you know it, little miss.
It won't happen again.
You said that two weeks ago.
Dad ! Most of my friends can stay out until 11 on school nights and 1 on weekends!
They're not all the sheriff's daughter. Goodnight.
Hi honey.
Hi Daddy. Hi Mr. Sisler.
I'm fine. I've just never had someone my age die before. It's so weird.
How well did you know Stacy and Rod?
I've been in the same class with Stacy for years but we weren't tight or anything.
Had either of them broken up with someone recently? Hurt someone?
No. Those two were together before Kenny and I started hanging out and that's over, what, God a year now.
I want you to head right home after school.
I will. Is that all?
Hi honey.
What's wrong?
I have a question to ask you. A personal question.
What do you mean?
Well, I assume you let him kiss you?
Well yeah. Of course. Everyone kisses.
I'm not criticizing. _ Did you two get any further?
A little.
How much further?
Daddy! I DON'T THINK THIS IS ANY OF YOUR BUSINESS!
I wouldn't ask if I didn't have to.
Not much further.
You never went, uh, all the way?
Ok.
Daddy, are you upset that I'm still a virgin?!
No honey.
You are upset.
I'm not.
I thought you'd be pleased.
I am. I'm so very proud of you. Go back to sleep.
It was a she.
Are you sure?
She said she was Kenny's aunt Lisa.
You know her?
It can't be.
Who is she Daddy?
Never mind darling. You go back to school. I don't want you missing anymore classes today.
You were eavesdropping.
No I wasn't.
What did you hear?
Nothing. I just picked up the phone to say goodbye to you. You didn't say goodbye.
Ok. Goodbye. Now get back to school.
No!
Run!
You aren't planning to tell these kids that 'virgin' was tattooed into both Stacy and Rod, are you?
No.
Good.
But I am going to have to question all of their past boyfriends and girlfriends.
Fine, just don't mention the carving This is going to be a tough enough day as it is.
Hi Jody.
I just wanted to check that you were okay?
Why'd you send for Lenny Marliston?
The kids adore him. They confide in him. His patchouli reeking rear might know if Stacy and Rod were really virgins. Why didn't you ask Jody that?
She's my daughter, Tom.
So?
So you just don't point blank ask your teenage daughter about sex.
Why not? You worried you might find out how much she actually knows?
If I'd gone public with this yesterday Annette Michaels might be alive today.
Oh GOD Brent, is there anything you don't feel guilty about?
is there anything you do?
Focus on the present. You always want to change the past. Let's figure out what you are going to tell the parents today, not what you should told them yesterday.
I'm going to tell them everything I know. I'm calling a town meeting for eight p.m.
You tell these people someone is out there killing virgins and we're going to have a goddamn fuckfest on our hands.
Better than a pile of dead teenagers.
IT'S LISA SHERMAN. But she still looks like we're eighteen.
That's impossible.
I swear to God. It's her. She told Jody she was Kenny's 'AUNT LISA'. I'm getting this sickly feeling...
Calm down Brent.
Yeah. Chris BERRINGER WAS PARKED OUTSIDE THE WINDOW.
I wonder why it's so important to know if they fucked?
What I don't understand is why they asked Marliston if Rod was a virgin. They could have asked you Cindy.
I never fucked Rod.
Exactly. Then he must be a virgin.
If I'm so allusedup Ben, why do you try to hook me up nonstop?
As fucking if.
I think it's funny.
Me too. I'm going to start telling people that I saw her drop to her knees and latch on to his unit vector.
I'm not fucking you. Not for all your CDS.
You want me to die? I thought you and I were tight.
ARE YOU THE KILLER BEN?
WOULD that impress you? IS that what it takes to impress the empress?
Your mind is just twisted enough. I believe you'd do all this just to get a dip or two.
I get all your CDs.
Not my imports.
Ok not your imports. All your other CDS and your K2 snowboard.
That's an awful lot for ten minutes of beasting?
Don't flatter yourself. You'll be lucky to last ten seconds with me Ben.
One more time.
I get the imports.
Ok!
Yeah?
I'm Lisa Sherman. Dylan's aunt. He asked me to come talk to you.
Why?
He feels terrible about those things he said to you in school.
He should. Four guys hit on me today, and not because they find me intellectually stimulating.
I think I know how to restore your reputation.
You do?
Can I come in? I'll need to use the phone.
We took all the chances. The money belongs to us, not him!
Don't be unneighborlylike, Herman  don't forget he done us a little ol' favor.
Yeah? What's that?
He took care of Charlie for us.
Shoot no, not after all these years.
Then he gets it out of your share, not mine! Not mine!
Howdy, Miz Lampert.
Who invited you?
This ain't no game, Miz Lampert.
We want that money  now!
Isn't there something constructive he can do  like start an avalanche?
Va jouer, mon ange.
Sylvie  I'm getting a divorce.
a alors! From Charles?
He's the only husband I've got. I tried to make it work, I really have  but 
But what?
I don't know how to explain it. I'm just too miserable.
But why do you want a divorce?
Because I don't love him.
But that is no reason to get a divorce!
With a rich husband and this year's clothes you will not find it difficult to make some new friends.
I admit I moved to Paris because I was tired of American Provincial,
He knows everything.
Don't you want me to stay?
It's not exactly what I'd call a large turnout.
Didn't Charles have any friends?
Don't ask me  I'm only the widow. If Charles had died in bed we wouldn't even have him.
At least he knows how to behave at funerals.
Have you no idea who could have done it?
Until two days ago all I really knew about Charles was his name  now it turns out I didn't even know that.
Do you know him?
I've never seen him before.
He must have known Charles pretty well.
How can you tell?
He's allergic to him.
Who is it from?
The American Embassy.
What is it about?
I don't know. But if this is a sample of American diplomacy I'm buying a fallout shelter.
I hope JeanLouis understands about last night  it's just not safe for him to be around me right now.
Don't be silly  he would not do anything. He is not yet old enough to be interested in girls. He says collecting stamps is much more satisfying to a man of his age.
Hold it  Italy just finished. They're recognizing Great Britain.
Oh la vache!
Sylvie  ? What are you doing here?
Hello, Reggie  I am waiting for JeanLouis.
What's he up to?
He was so excited  when he got the stamps you gave him this morning. He said he had never seen any like them.
I'm glad. But what's all this?
The stamp market, of course  it is here every Thursday afternoon. This is where JeanLouis trades his 
Good Lord! The stamps! Where is he? Sylvie  we've got to find him!
What's the matter, chrie?
Those stamps  they're worth a fortune!
What?
A fortune! Hurry  we've got to find him!
I don't see him.
We will separate  you look over there.
Miz Lampert, ma'am...
Yes?
Charlie had no call to handling it thisaway. He sure didn't. No siree.
I don't understa
Howdy, Miz Lampert.
Wha  what do you want?
You know what I want, Miz Lampert...
No  no, I'm don't.
Come on now  sure you do. An' you'd better give it to me, Miz Lampert  cuz I ain't foolin'. No sireebob!
Stop that!
Don't make too much noise, Miz Lampert 
It belongs to me, Miz Lampert  an' if you don't give it to me your life ain't gonna be worth the paper it's printed on. You savvy what I'm sayin', Miz Lampert?
Please stop  please!
You think on it real carefullike, Miz Lampert  y'hear?
Can you give me one good reason why I should?
Yes, ma'am. A little one  'bout seven or eight years old. Th' little tyke keeps callin' you his Aunt Reggie  ain't that cute?
Oh, forgive me. Is this yours?
It's hers. Where'd you find him, robbing a bank?
He was throwing snowballs at Baron Rothschild. We don't know each other, do we?
Why, do you think we're going to?
I don't know  how would I know?
I'm afraid I already know a great many people. Until one of them dies I couldn't possibly meet anyone else.
Yes, of course. But you will let me know if anyone goes on the critical list
Quitter.
How's that?
You give up awfully easy, don't you?
Clever fellow  almost missed me.
I'm afraid you're blocking my view.
Sorry. Which view would you like?
The one you're blocking. This is the last chance I have  I'm flying back to Paris this afternoon. What's your name?
Peter Joshua.
I'm Regina Lampert.
Is there a Mr. Lampert?
Yes.
Good for you.
No, it isn't. I'm getting a divorce.
Please, not on my account.
No, you see, I don't really love him.
Well, you're honest, anyway.
Yes, I am  I'm compulsive about it  dishonesty infuriates me. Like when you go into a drugstore.
I'm not sure I 
Well, you go in and you ask for some toothpaste  the small size  and the man brings you the large size. You tell him you wanted the small size but he says the large size is the small size. I always thought the large size was the largest size, but he says that the family size, the economy size and the giant size are all larger than the large size  that the large size is the smallest size there is.
Oh. I guess.
Is there a Mrs. Joshua?
Yes, but we're divorced.
That wasn't a proposal  I was just curious.
Is your husband with you?
Oh, Charles is hardly ever with me. First it was separate rooms  now we're trying it with cities. What do people call you  Pete?
Mr. Joshua. Well, I've enjoyed talking with you.
Now you're angry.
No, I'm not  I've got some packing to do. I'm also going back to Paris today.
Oh. Well, wasn't it Shakespeare who said: "When strangers do meet they should erelong see one another again"?
Shakespeare never said that.
How do you know?
It's terrible  you just made it up.
Well, the idea's right, anyway. Are you going to call me?
Are you in the book?
Charles is.
Is there only one Charles Lampert?
What are you doing here?
I phoned but nobody answered. I wanted to tell you how sorry I am  and to find out if there was anything I could do.
How did you find out?
It's in all the afternoon papers. I'm very sorry.
Thank you.
I rang the bell but I don't think it's working.
Yes it is  I heard it this morning.
Where did everything go?
Charles sold it all  at auction.
Do you know what you're going to do?
Try and get my old job back at UNESCO, I suppose.
Doing what?
I'm a simultaneous translator  like Sylvie, only she's English to French  I'm French to English. That's what I did before I married Charles. The police probably think I killed him.
Instant divorce you mean?
Something like that. But I'm sorry it ended like this  tossed off a train like a sack of thirdclass mail.
Come on. You can't stay here.
I don't know where to go.
We'll find you a hotel.
Not too expensive  I'm not a lady of leisure anymore.
Something modest but clean  and near enough to UNESCO so you can take a cab when it rains  okay?
Hallo, Peter.
You telephoned me to meet you. I've been standing on the corner back there  waiting for you.
I'm sorry  I heard the children laughing.
What's going on?
Don't you understand French?
I'm still having trouble with English.
The man and the woman are married 
Of course? I thought he was dead.
He's only pretending, to teach her a lesson  only  only he is dead, Peter  I saw him  he's not pretending. Somebody threw him off a train. What am I going to do?
Right there, between your eyes  see? Worry lines. You're much too young and too pretty to have anything like that. How about making me vice president in charge of cheering you up?
Starting tonight?
What was all that?
Fun and games. Evidently we're the floorshow.
You mean you and me?
No, everyone. Come on  avanti, avanti!
En garde.
Lay on, MacDuff.
What are you doing in here?
Having a nervous breakdown.
You haven't said a word since we left the club  what happened back there?
I  I'm not sure if I'm supposed to tell you or not.
I don't think I follow you.
He said if I told anybody it could prove fatal for them as well as me.
Who said?
That's what I'm not supposed to say.
Stop this nonsense! If you're in some sort of trouble I want to know about it.
Stop bullying me. Everybody's bullying me.
I wasn't 
Yes, you were  you called it nonsense. Being murdered in cold blood isn't nonsense. Wait until it happens to you sometime.
You said this afternoon that your husband was mixed up in something.
How do you shave in there?
What was it?
What was what?
What your husband was mixed up in.
Look, I know it's asking you to stretch your imagination, but can't you pretend for a moment that I'm a woman and that you're a 
Don't you know I could already be arrested for transporting a minor above the first floor?
We're here.
Where?
On the street where you live.
How about once more around the park?
Him: 'Do you mind if I come in for a nightcap, Reggie?' Her: 'Well  it is awfully late.' Him: 'Just one, all right?' Her: 'Promise you'll behave yourself.' Him: 'Sorry, baby, I never make promises I can't keep.'
How would you like a spanking?
How would you like a punch in the nose? Stop treating me like a child.
Then stop acting like one. If you're really in some kind of trouble, I'd like to hear about it. Otherwise, it's late, I'm tired and I'm going home to bed.
Do you know what's wrong with you?
What?
Nothing. Good night.
Good night.
Peter  are you all right?
I think I sprained my pride. Where'd he go?
Out of the window, I guess  I didn't see him.
Lock the door and the window  and don't let anyone in except me. I'll be back in a minute.
Be careful, Peter.
You took the words right out of my mouth.
There was no trace of him. All right, Reggie  suppose you tell me what this is all about.
There are three men  he's one of them  they think I have something that belongs to them.
What?
A quarter of a million dollars.
Go on.
That's all.
No, it isn't  where's the money?
I don't know. Those men killed Charles to get it. But he must not have had it with him on the train.
So they think he left it with you.
But he didn't! I've looked everywhere  And if I don't find it  Those men going to kill me.
No, they won't  I won't let them.
Please help me, Peter  you're the only one I can trust.
Of course I'll help  I told you I would, didn't I? Come on now 
I'm so hungry I could faint. I've  I've gotten your suit all wet.
That's all right  it's a dripdry.
Peter, you've got to promise me something. Promise you'll never lie the way Charles did. Why do people have to tell lies?
Usually it's because they want something  and they're afraid the truth won't get it for them.
Do you tell lies?
Who is it?
The man you had the fight with.
Yes  that's right.
What is it, Reggie  what's he saying?
What'd he say?
He  he said if I didn't give the money, he'll kill me.
I wouldn't take that too seriously.
I believe what he said.
They're only trying to scare you, that's all.
How do you know what they're doing?
I don't  but as long as they think you have the money, or know where it is, or have it without knowing where it is, or don't even know you have it 
What are you talking about?
You mustn't let what he said bother you. It was only words.
Words can hurt very much.
Go to sleep  I'll see you in the morning.
Don't put yourself out.
Hey  I'm on your side. Remember that.
Yes, I'll remember. Good night.
Good night.
Oh, la.
Don't tell me you didn't know it was loaded. Sylvie!
Yes, of course  but if you went back and wrote me a letter 
 you could have the stamps. I'll get you some here, okay?
Okay.
Oh, la! If I find the treasure, will I win a prize?
What should we give him?
Come on, now  if you wanted to hide something, where would you put it?
I know. I would bury it in the garden.
Swell  only this man doesn't have a garden.
Oh. Neither do I. Voil!
Voil what?
Up there! I would put it up there!
I hope I don't find any little hairy things living up here  wait! There is something! If I can just  yes, I'm getting it  a case of some sort  it's heavy.
I found it! I found it!
If you think you're getting credit for this, you're crazy.
We won! We won!
Up there! It is up there!
No, JeanLouis.
JeanLouis  thank heavens! Do you have  ! What's that?
A man traded with me  all those for only four.
Oh no! What man, JeanLouis  where?
But he is gone.
I don't blame him. JeanLouis  do you know where this Monsieur Flix lives?
No  but I will ask.
Yes.
I am Inspector Edouard Grandpierre of the Police Judiciaire. Would you be so kind as to come with me, please?
You loved him?
I'm very cold.
We discovered your husband's body lying next to the tracks of the Paris Bourdeaux railroad line. He was dressed only in his pajamas. Do you know of any reason why he might have wished to leave France?
Leave?
Your husband possessed a ticket of passage on the 'Maranguape.' It sailed from Bordeaux for Maracaibo this morning at seven.
I'm very confused.
He was American?
Swiss.
Oh. Swiss. His profession?
He didn't have one.
He was a wealthy man?
I don't know. I suppose so.
About how wealthy would you say?
I don't know.
Where did he keep his money?
I don't know.
Besides yourself, who is his nearest relation?
I don't know.
C'est absurde, Madame. Totalement absurde!
I know. I'm sorry.
It is all right.
Is it all right?
I wish you wouldn't.
One wallet containing four thousand francs  one agenda   his last notation was made yesterday  Thursday  "Five p.m.  Jardin des Champs Elyses" Why there?
I don't know. Perhaps he met somebody.
Obviously. One ticket of passage to South America  one letter, stamped but unsealed, addressed to you 
A letter? May I see it?
"My dear Regina: I hope you are enjoying your holiday. Megeve can be so lovely this time of year. The days pass very slowly and I hope to see you soon. As always, Charles. P.S. Your dentist called yesterday. Your appointment has been changed." Not very much, is it?
We took the liberty of calling your dentist  we thought, perhaps, we would learn something.
Did you?
Yes. Your appointment has been changed. One key to your apartment  one comb  one fountain pen  one toothbrush  one tin of tooth powder  that is all.
If you will sign this list you may take the things with you.
Is that all? Can I go now?
One more question. Is this your husband's passport?
Of course it is.
And this?
I don't understand.
And this? And this?
I was, too.
In Mr. Dyle's room?
No  in my room.
It stands to reason you are telling the truth  for why would you invent such a ridiculous story?
Mrs. Lampert 
What do you want?
Didn't Charles tell you, Mrs. Lampert?
Tell me what?
It doesn't belong to you, Mrs. Lampert  you do know that, don't you?
I don't know anything.
Mrs. Lampert, any morning now you could wake up dead.
Leave me alone  !
Dead, Mrs. Lampert  like last week's news  like Charles, Mrs. Lampert 
Stop it!
I'm afraid that will have to wait, Mrs. Lampert.
But his mother 
She isn't going to be anybody's mother unless you answer some questions.
That was a dumb move, Herman  a dumb move.
And then some. If you'd only told us you was goin' to her room we could've kept 'em busy 
I suggest you get about your business  nothing soothes Herman like success.
That's right  it's like ticklin' a alligator's belly.
What for? If it's not here, why bother him?
And if it is?
Why bother him?
You sure nuthin's missin'?
No. The police have kindly provided us with a list.
There sure ain't nothin' here worth no quarter of a million.
Not unless we're blind.
You think that mebbe we're fishin' the wrong stream?
Meaning what?
You don't s'pose one o' us has it, like the man said  I mean, that'd be pretty distasteful  us bein' vet'rans o' the same war 'n' all.
You know I'd tell you if I had it.
Nachurly. Jus' like I'd tell you.
Nachurly. And that goes for Herman, too.
What do you mean, no?
The kid said 
Monsieur Flix  ?
I was expecting you. You are American too, of course.
Yes.
The man who bought them last week was American. I did not see him but I heard. I knew you would come.
Have you ever, in your entire life, seen anything so beautiful?
I'm  I'm sorry  I don't know anything about stamps.
I know them as one knows his own face, even though I have never seen them. This yellow one  a Swedish four shilling  called 'De Gula Fyraskillingen'  issued in 1854.
How much is it worth?
The money is unimportant.
I'm afraid it is important.
In your money, perhaps $65,000.
Do you mind if I sit down? What about the blue one?
It is called 'The Hawaiian Blue' and there are only seven left. In 1894 the owner of one was murdered by a rival collector who was obsessed to own it.
What's its value today?
In human life? In greed? In suffering?
In money.
Fortyfive thousand.
Do you have anything to eat? And the orange one  what about the orange one?
A twopenny Mauritius  issued in 1856. Not so rare as the others  $30,000 perhaps.
And the last one?
The best for the last  le chef d'oeuvre de la collection. The masterpiece. It is the most valuable stamp in the world. It is called 'The Gazette Guyanne.' It was printed by hand on colored paper in 1852 and marked with the initials of the printer. Today it has a value of $100,000. Eh, bien  I am not a thief. I knew there was some mistake. Take them.
You gave the boy quite a lot of stamps in return, Monsieur Flix  are they for sale now?
Let me see. There are 350 European, 200 Asian, 175 American, 100 African and twelve Princess Grace commemorative  which comes to nine francs fifty.
Here's ten.
Please keep it.
I am a tradesman, Madame, not a doorman. And don't forget these.
I'm  I'm sorry.
No. For a few minutes they were mine  that is enough.
Good morning, Mr. Dyle.
Reggie?
It's the only name I've got. How about you?
No cat and mouse  you've got me. What do you want to know?
Why you lied to me.
I had to  for all I knew you could have been in on the whole thing.
Well, you know now, so please tell me who you are.
But you know my name  it's Dyle.
Carson Dyle is dead.
Yes, he is. He was my brother.
Your 
The army thinks he was killed in action by the Germans, but I think they did it  Tex, Gideon and Scobie  and your husband  because he wouldn't go along with their scheme to steal the gold. I think he threatened to turn them in and they killed him. I'm trying to prove it. They think I'm working with them. But I'm not, and that's the truth. I'm on your side, Reggie  please believe that.
How can I? You lied to me  the way Charles did  and after promising you wouldn't. Oh, I want to believe you, Peter... oh, but I can't call you that anymore, can I? It will take me a while to get used to your new name  which I don't even know yet. What is it? Aren't you going to tell me? Hello  ?
Didn't anyone ever tell you it's impolite to  What happened?
I met a man with sharp nails.
Scobie?
I left him hanging around the American Express.
Come on  I've got something that stings like crazy.
Listen  all I really want is an estimate.
It's not so bad. You may not be able to lie on your back for a few days  but, then, you can lie from any position, can't you?
Does it hurt?
Haven't you got a bullet I can bite?
Are you really Carson Dyle's brother?
Would you like to see my passport?
Your passport! What kind of a proof is that?
Would you like to see where I was tattooed?
Sure.
Okay, I'll drive you around there some day. Ouch!
Ha ha. You could at least tell me what your first name is these days.
Alexander.
Is there a Mrs. Dyle?
Yes, but we're divorced.
I thought that was Peter Joshua.
I'm no easier to live with than he was.
There  you're a new man.
I'm sorry I couldn't tell you the truth, but I had to find out your part in all this.
Alex  how can you tell if someone is lying or not?
You can't.
There must be some way.
There's an old riddle about two tribes of Indians  the Whitefeet always tell the truth and the Blackfeet always lie. So one day you meet an Indian, you ask him if he's a truthful Whitefoot or a lying Blackfoot? He tells you he's a truthful Whitefoot, but which one is he?
Why couldn't you just look at his feet?
Because he's wearing moccasins.
Oh. Well, then he's a truthful Whitefoot, of course.
Why not a lying Blackfoot?
Which one are you?
Whitefoot, of course.
Come here.
I hope it turns out you're a Whitefoot, Alex  I could be very happy hanging around the tepee.
Reggie  listen to me 
Ohoh  here it comes. The fatherly talk. You forget I'm already a widow.
So was Juliet  at fifteen.
I'm not fifteen.
Well, there's your trouble right there  you're too old for me.
Why can't you be serious?
There, you said it.
Said what?
Serious. When a man gets to be my age that's the last word he ever wants to hear. I don't want to be serious  and I especially don't want you to be.
Okay  I'll tell you what  we'll just sit around all day long being frivolous  how about that?
Now please, Reggie  cut it out.
Okay.
What are you doing?
Cutting it out.
Who told you to do that?
You did.
But I'm not through complaining yet.
Oh.
Now please, Reggie  cut it out.
I think I love you, Alex 
The phone's ringing 
Whoever it is won't give up  and neither will I.
They've got JeanLouis!
That sounds like their problem.
I'll be right there.
What day is it?
Tuesday.
Lord, I forgot all about it  Sylvie works late Tuesday nights  she always leaves him with me. They wouldn't do anything to a little boy, would they?
I don't know  it depends on whether or not they've already eaten.
Hello, Herman, it was a happy landing, I see.
I'd better call Sylvie  she must be frantic.
Come on  let's get busy. Who gets your vote?
Scobie  he's the one that objected.
He's all yours. I'll do Tex and Gideon. Take JeanLouis with you  and make sure you bolt the door from inside.
Viens, JeanLouis  we're going to have a treasure hunt.
Reggie  ? Did you find it?
No.
Who do you think did it  Gideon?
Maybe.
Or Tex?
Maybe.
You're a big help. Can I have one of those?
I think Tex did it.
Why?
Because I really suspect Gideon  and it is always the person you don't suspect.
Do women think it's feminine to be so illogical  or can't they help it?
What's so illogical about that?
A) It's always the person you don't suspect; B) that means you think it's Tex because you really suspect Gideon; therefore C) if you think it's Tex, it has to be someone else  Gideon.
Oh. I guess they just can't help it.
Who?
Women. You know, I can't help feeling rather sorry for Scobie. Wouldn't it be nice if we were like that?
What  like Scobie?
No  Gene Kelly. Remember the way he danced down there next to the river in 'American in Paris'  without a care in the world? This is good, want some?
I'd love some, thanks.
I'm sorry.
No sense messing up the streets.
Alex 
Hm?
I'm scared.
Don't worry, I'm not going to hit you.
No, about Scobie, I mean. I can't think of any reason why he was killed.
Maybe somebody felt that four shares were too many 
What makes you think that this somebody will be satisfied with three? He wants it all, Alex  that means we're in his way, too.
Yes, I know.
First your brother, then Charles, now Scobie  we've got to do something! Any minute now we could be assassinated! Would you do anything like that?
What? Assassinate somebody?
No 
Hurry up and change  I'm starved.
Let me know what you want  I'll pick a suit that matches.
Got you.
Did you ever hear the story of the boy who cried wolf?
The shower's in there.
Reggie  open the door.
This is a ludicrous situation. There must be dozens of men dying to use my shower.
Then I suggest you call one of them.
I dare you.
What are you doing?
Have you ever heard of anyone taking a shower with his shoes on? What a nut.
I usually sing a medley of old favorites when I bathe  any requests?
Shut the door!
I don't think I know that one.
The suit needs it more than I do, anyway.
How often do you go through this little ritual?
Every day. The manufacturer recommends it.
I don't believe it.
Reggie  you haven't spoken a word in twenty minutes.
I keep thinking about Charles and Scobie  and the one who's going to be next  me?
Nothing's going to happen to you while I'm around  I want you to believe that.
How can I believe it when you don't even know who the killer is? I've got that right, haven't I? You don't know who did it.
No  not yet.
But then if we sit back and wait, the field should start narrowing down, shouldn't it? Whoever's left alive at the end will pretty well have sewn up the nomination, wouldn't you say so?
Are you trying to say that I might have killed Charles and Scobie?
What do I have to do to satisfy you  become the next victim?
It's a start, anyway.
I don't understand you at all  one minute you're chasing me around the shower room and the next you're accusing me of murder.
Carson Dyle didn't have a brother.
I can explain if you'll just listen. Will you listen?
I can't very well leave without a pair of water wings.
Okay. Then get set for the story of my life  not that it would ever make the bestseller list.
Fiction or nonfiction?
Why don't you shut up!
Well!
Are you going to listen?
Go on.
After I graduated college I was all set to go into my father business. Umbrella frames  that's what he made. It was a sensible business, I suppose, but I didn't have the sense to be interested in anything sensible.
I suppose all this is leading somewhere?
It led me away from umbrella frames, for one thing. But that left me without any honest means of support.
What do you mean?
When a man has no profession except the one he loathes, what's left? I began looking for people with more money than they'd ever need  including some they'd barely miss.
You mean, you're a thief?
Well, it isn't exactly the term I'd have chosen, but I suppose it captures the spirit of the thing.
I don't believe it.
Well, I can't really blame you  not now.
But I do believe it  that's what I don't believe. So it's goodbye Alexander Dyle  Welcome home Peter Joshua.
Sorry, the name's Adam Canfield.
Adam Canfield. Wonderful. Do you realize you've had three names in the past two days? I don't even know who I'm talking to any more.
The man's the same, even if the name isn't.
No  he's not the same. Alexander Dyle was interested in clearing up his brother's death. Adam Canfield is a crook. And with all the advantages you've got  brains, charm, education, a handsome face 
If you do anything funny, or try to talk to anyone, I'll kill you, Dyle  here and now. Okay?
You'll wreck your raincoat.
What now?
We wait  with our mouths shut.
How long do you intend  ?
I said with the mouth shut.
Sorry about that.
Okay  up there.
Do I knock or something?
Open it.
Keep going.
The view had better be worth it.
Very pretty. Now what?
I'll give you a chance, Dyle  which is more than you'd give me. Where's the money?
Is that why you dragged me all the way up here  to ask me that? She has it  you know that.
And I say maybe you both have it! One more time, Dyle  where is it?
Supposing I did have it  which I don't  do you really think I'd hand it over?
You're out, Dyle  right now!
Back where?
That's the idea.
And stop threatening that boy. He doesn't have the money. Mrs. Lampert doesn't either.
Then who does?
I don't know, Herman  maybe you do.
Me?
Or you  Or you 
That's a crock! If one of us did that he wouldn't hang around here waiting for the other two to wise up.
But he'd have to. If he left he'd be admitting his guilt  and the others would know what happened. Whoever it is has to wait here, pretending to look for the money, waiting for the rest of us to give up and go home. That's when he'll be safe and not a minute before.
He's just tryin' to throw us off! They've got it, I tell you! Why don't we search their rooms?
It's all right with us 
Not my room!
What's wrong, Herman  have you got something to hide? Then I take it there are no objections.
We'd better exchange keys. Here's mine.
I'll take that.
Well, of all the mean, rotten, contemptible, crooked 
Crooked? I should think you'd be glad to find out I wasn't crooked.
You couldn't even be honest about being dishonest. Why didn't you say something?
We're not allowed to tell. May I have the stamps, please?
Here  Wait a minute  how did Carson Dyle get an office in here, anyway?
When did you see him  what time, I mean?
Around one.
The lunch hour. He probably worked it out in advance. He found an office that was usually left open and just moved in for the time you were here.
Then how do I know this is your office?
Mrs. Foster  send a memo to Bartholomew at Security recommending that 
Bartholomew?
 recommending that all Embassy offices be locked during the lunch hour.
Starting with his own.
Okay, now  hand over those stamps.
What's your first name today?
Brian.
Brian Cruikshank  it would serve me right if I got stuck with that one.
Who asked you to get stuck with any of them?
Is there a Mrs. Cruikshank?
Yes.
But you're  divorced?
No.
Oh.
My mother  she lives in Detroit. Come on now  give me those stamps.
Only if you can prove to me that you're really Brian Cruikshank.
How about if next week some time I put it on a marriage license  that ought to 
Quit stalling  I want to see some identification  now!
I wouldn't lie on a thing like that  I could go to jail.
You'd lie about anything.
Well, maybe we'd better forget about it, then.
You can't prove it, can you? You're still trying to  marriage license! Did you say  ?
I didn't say anything. Will you give me those stamps?
You did too say it  I heard you. Oh, I love you Adam  I mean Alex  er, Peter  Brian. I hope we have lots of boys  we can name them all after you.
Before we start on that, do you mind handing over the stamps?
It's Charles!
Very good.
He looks so young  when was this taken?
1944. The next face, please.
It's the man who came to the funeral yesterday  I'm sure of it  a tall man in a corduroy suit and string tie.
Does the name Tex Penthollow mean anything to you?
No.
Next, please.
Yes  and he was there, too  a little fatter now  and less hair  but it's the same one.
Do you know him, Mrs. Vo  Mrs. Lampert? Leopold W. Gideon?
No.
The last one, please.
That's a face you don't forget  he was there too 
Herman Scobie. And you've never seen him before, either?
No, thank heaven.
I'm sorry  my secretary must have gone to lunch. You are  ?
Mrs. Lampert  Mrs. Charles Lampert.
Come in, Mrs. Lampert. You're quite late.
Drycleaningwise, things are all fouled up. I had a good man  an excellent man on the Rue Ponthieu, but H.Q. asked us to use the plant here in the building  to ease the gold outflow.
Mr. Bartholomew  are you sure you know who I am?
Charles Lampert's widow  yes? Last time I sent out a tie only the spot came back.
Have some, please. I've got... ...liverwurst  liverwurst  chicken and  liverwurst.
No thanks.
Do you know what C.I.A. is, Mrs. Lampert?
I don't suppose it's an airline, is it?
Central Intelligence Agency  C.I.A.
You mean spies and things like that?
Only we call them agents.
We? You mean you're ?
Someone has to do it, Mrs. Lampert 
I'm sorry, it's just that I didn't think that you people were supposed to admit 
I'm not an agent, Mrs. Lampert  I'm an administrator  a desk jockey  trying to run a bureau of overworked men with underallocated funds. Congress seems to think that all a spy needs 
Agent.
Yes  That all he needs is a code book and a cyanide pill and he's in business.
What's all this got to do with me, Mr. Bartholomew?
Your husband was wanted by the U. S. government.
May I have a sandwich, please?
To be more specific, he was wanted by this agency.
So that was it.
Yes. We knew him, of course, by his real name.
His  real  ?
Voss  Charles Voss. All right, Mrs. Voss   I'd like you to look at this photograph, please  by the way, you saw this one, didn't you? Scott, Cathy, and Ham, Jr.
Very sweet.
Aren't they? Now look at this one, Mrs. Voss, and 
Stop calling me that! Lampert's the name on the marriage license.
Yes  and tell me if you recognize anyone. Just a moment. Have a good look.
Mrs. Lampert, I'm afraid you're in a great deal of danger.
Danger? Why should I be in any danger?
You're Charles Voss's wife  now that he's dead you're their only lead.
Mr. Bartholomew  if you're trying to frighten me you're doing a really firstrate job!
Please, do what we ask, Mrs. Lampert  it's your only chance.
Gladly, only I don't know what you want! You haven't told me.
Oh, haven't I? The money  Mrs. Lampert  the money. The $250,000 Charles Voss received from the auction. Those three men want it, too  they want it very badly.
But it's Charles's money, not theirs.
Oh, Mrs. Lampert! I'd love to see you try and convince them of that! Oh, dear.
Then whose is it? His or theirs?
Ours.
Oh, I see.
And I'm afraid we want it back.
But I don't have it.
That's impossible. You're the only one who could have it.
I'm sorry it's impossible. It's the truth.
I believe you.
Thanks very much.
Oh, you've got the money all right  you just don't know you've got it.
Mr. Bartholomew  if I had a quarter of a million dollars, believe me, I'd know it.
Nevertheless, Mrs Lampert  you've got it.
You mean it's just lying around someplace  all that cash?
Or a safe deposit key, a certified check, a baggage claim  you look for it, Mrs. Lampert  I'm quite sure you'll find it.
But 
Look for it, Mrs. Lampert  look just as hard and as fast as you can. You may not have a great deal of time. Those men know you have it just as surely as we do. You won't be safe until the money's in our hands. Is that clear?
Here's where you're to call me  day or night. It's a direct line to both my office and my apartment. Don't lose it, Mrs. Lampert  and please don't tell anyone about coming to see me. It could prove fatal for them as well as yourself.
Wait a minute  you think those three men killed Charles, don't you?
We've no proof, of course, but we rather think so, yes.
Well, there you are! Charles had the money with him  so whoever killed him has it  they have it!
Why not?
Because they're still here.
Oh.
Like I said, Mrs Lampert  I'm afraid you're in a great deal of danger. Remember what happened to Charles.
I don't know who this Mr. Dyle is, but it's just possible we were wrong about who killed your husband.
You mean he might have  Mr. Bartholomew, I'm catching the next plane out of here  I'm not going to sit here and wait for someone to make chopped liver out of me!
Where are you now  can you meet me? Do you know Les Halles?
Yes, where?  in fifteen minutes. I'll be there.
What did you want to see me about, Mr. Bartholomew?
Were you followed?
Yes, but I lost him. I really did it quite brilliantly. I'm beginning to think women make the best spies.
Agents.
He has a gun, Mr. Bartholomew  I saw it.
Who?
Dyle, or whatever his name is.
What does your Mr. Dyle look like, Mrs. Lampert?
He's hardly my Mr. Dyle.
Describe him.
Well  he's tall  over six feet  rather thin  in good physical shape, I'd say  dark eyes  quite handsome, really.
No.
No, what?
That's not Carson Dyle.
Carson?
There's only one Dyle connected with this affair, Mrs. Lampert  that's Carson.
You mean you've known about him all along? Why didn't you tell me?
Mr. Bartholomew  why didn't you tell me you knew about Dyle?
I didn't see any point. Dyle's dead.
Dead? Mr. Bartholomew  maybe you'd better tell me what this thing's all about.
I suppose you're old enough to have heard of World War Two?
Barely, yes.
In 1944, five members of the O.S.S.  the military espionage unit  were ordered behind the German lines for the purpose of delivering $250,000 in gold to the French Underground. The five men 
Caf.
Gratine, choucroute garnie, salade de pommes  et un ballon de rouge.
Mrs. Lampert, I really hadn't planned on spending the entire night here.
Can I at least keep the onion soup?
Go on, please  five men  $250,000  the French Underground 
Yes. The five men. They were, of course, your husband, Charles, the three men who showed up at his funeral yesterday, and Carson Dyle. But something went wrong and they were unable to locate their contact. It must have been at that point that they decided to steal the money.
Steal it how?
By burying it, and then reporting that the Germans had captured it. All they had to do was come back after the war, dig it up and split it five ways  a quarter of a million dollars with no questions asked.
May I have a cigarette, please?
Have you any idea what these things cost over here?
Please go on, Mr. Bartholomew  what happened then?
Scobie was able to travel, but Carson Dyle was clearly dying, so they 
Carson was dying so they were forced to leave him. They finally got back to the base, made their report, and waited for the war to end. Only Charles couldn't wait quite as long as the others. He beat them back to the gold, took everything for himself and disappeared. It's taken Gideon, Tex and Scobie all this time to catch up with him again.
But if they stole all that money  why can't you arrest them?
We know what happened from the bits and pieces we were able to paste together  but we still have no proof.
But what has all this got to do with the C.I.O.?
C.I.A., Mrs. Lampert. We're an extension of the wartime O.S.S. It was our money and we want it back.
I'm sorry, Mr. Bartholomew, but nothing you've told me has changed my mind. I still intend leaving Paris  tonight.
I wouldn't advise that, Mrs. Lampert. You'd better consider what happened to your husband when he tried to leave. Those men won't be very far away  no matter where you go. In fact, I don't even see any point in your changing hotels. Please help us, Mrs. Lampert. Your government is counting on you.
Well, if I'm going to die, I might as well do it for my country.
That's the spirit.
Oh, stop it. What do you want me to do?
We're anxious to know who this man is  the one calling himself Dyle.
Maybe he really is Dyle. He could still be alive.
No, Mrs. Lampert.
But no one actually saw him die.
No, Mrs. Lampert. His death is registered with the War Department in Washington.
Oh. Then who's this one?
I don't know  but I think you'd better find out, don't you?
Me? Why me?
You're in an ideal position  he trusts you. Besides, you said yourself, women make the best spies.
Agents.
Yes  ?
Mrs. Lampert?  Bartholomew. I've spoken to Washington, Mrs. Lampert 
Go ahead, Mr. Bartholomew  I'm listening.
I told them what you said  about this man being Carson Dyle's brother. I asked them what they knew about it and they told me  you're not gonna like this, Mrs. Lampert  they told me Carson Dyle has no brother.
Are you sure there's no mistake?
None whatsoever. Please, Mrs. Lampert  be careful.
Just a minute, Mrs. Lampert  you'd better give that to me slowly. Who's Adam?
The one who said he was Dyle's brother  of course I'm sure  Tex wrote the word 'Dyle' before he died. He's the murderer I tell you  he's the only one left! You've got to do something!
Calm down, Mrs. Lampert  please. Does he have the money?
No, I do  it was the stamps on that letter Charles had with him on the train. They were in plain sight all the time, but no one ever bothered looking at the envelope.
The envelope  imagine that. Mrs. Lampert, listen to me  you're not safe as long as you've got these stamps. Go to the Embassy right away  wait, I'd better meet you halfway  it's quicker. Now, let's see  do you know the center garden at the Palais Royal?  yes, by the colonnade  as soon as you can get there. Hurry, Mrs. Lampert.
Yes, I'm leaving now  goodbye.
Oh, come on!
 there has to be a darn good reason for living the way you do. I want to know what it is.
It's simple. I like what I do  I enjoy doing it. There aren't many men who love their work as much as I do. Look around some time.
Is there a Mrs. Canfield?
Yes, but 
I could eat a horse.
I think that's what you ordered.
Don't you dare to be civil with me! All this time you were leading me on 
How was I leading you on?
All that marvelous rejection  you knew I couldn't resist it. Now it turns out you were only interested in the money.
That's right.
Oh!
What would you like me to say  that a pretty girl with an outrageous manner means more to an old pro like me than a quarter of a million dollars?
No  I guess not.
It's a tossup, I can tell you that.
What?
Don't you know I'm having a tough time keeping my eyes off of you?
Oh, you should see your face.
What about it?
It's lovely.
What's the matter?
I'm not hungry  isn't it glorious?
Adam!
It's all right  look.
You don't look so bad in this light.
Why do you think I brought you here?
I thought maybe you wanted me to see the kind of work the competition was turning out.
Pretty good, huh? I taught them everything they do.
Oh? Did they do that sort of thing way back in your day?
How do you think I got here?
Aren't you allowed to kiss back?
No. The doctor said it would be bad for my  thermostat.
When you come on, you really come on.
Well  come on.
I know why you're not taken  no one can catch up with you.
Relax  you're gaining.
That wraps it up  Tex has the money. Go back to bed  I'll let you know when I've found him.
You're going to look for him  now?
If the police find him first they're not very likely to turn over a quarter of a million dollars to us, are they?
Adam 
There's no time  I'll call you in the morning.
What is it?
Open up.
I think we were wrong about Tex having the money.
Why?
I just heard from him  he's still hungry. That means killing Gideon didn't get it for him  so he's narrowed it down to us. You've got it.
I've looked, Adam  you know I have 
Where's that airlines bag?
Lord, you're stubborn.
I sure am. Get it.
But everyone and his Aunt Lilian's been through that bag. Somebody would have seen it.
Let's look anyway.
Lord, you're stubborn.
I mean, it's there, Reggie. If only we could see it. We're looking at it right now.
Electric razor  comb  steamship ticket  fountain pen  four passports  toothbrush  wallet  key  what about that?
To the apartment  it matches mine perfectly.
The letter 
It still doesn't make sense, but it isn't worth any quarter of a million either. Have we forgotten anything?
The tooth powder. Wait a minute  could you recognize heroin just by tasting it?
Heroin  peppermintflavored heroin.
Well, I guess that's it  dead end.
Go to bed. You've got to be at work in the morning. There's nothing more we can do tonight.
I love you, Adam.
Yes, you told me.
No  last time I said "I love you, Alex."
Reggie  I think I've found  are you on?
No, it's all right. What's wrong, Adam?
Nothing's wrong. I think I found something. I was snooping around Tex's room and I found this in the waste basket. I've stuck it back together.
You're right. I remember Grandpierre looking through it. But there was nothing in it  at least, nothing that the police thought was very important.
Can you remember anything at all?
Grandpierre asked me about an appointment Charles had  on the day he was killed.
With whom? Where?
I think it only said where  but I can't 
Think, Reggie, you've got to think  it may be what we're looking for.
That money's not ours, Adam  if we keep it, we'll be breaking the law.
Nonsense. We didn't steal it. There's no law against stealing stolen money.
Of course there is!
There is? Well, I can't say I think very much of a silly law like that. Think, Reggie  please think  what was written in Charles' notebook?
Well  it was a place  a street corner, I think. But I don't  Hold it. I'm on.
as outlined in report number three ninestrokefivetwo of the Western Hemisphere Conference held on March 22  no wait! It was last Thursday, five o'clock at the Jardin des Champs lyses! Adam  that was it! The garden!
It's Thursday today  and it's almost five  come on!
Now what?
Five o'clock  Thursday  the Garden  it's got to be something around here.
But Charles' appointment was last week, not 
I know, but this is all we've got left.
Well, you're right there. Ten minutes ago I had a job.
Stop grousing. If we find the money I'll buy you an international conference all your own. Now start looking. You take this side and I'll poke around over there.
It's hopeless  I don't even know what we're looking for.
It's all right  I don't think Tex does, either.
Tex? You mean he's here, too?
Look.
Reggie  stop!
Why? So you can kill me too? Tex is dead, I've seen him! He said Dyle did it!
I'm not Dyle  you know that!
But Tex didn't  he still thought  !
Don't be an idiot!
Reggie  why won't you listen?
I'm through listening to you!
But I didn't kill anybody.
Then who did? You're the only one left.
Reggie  please believe me!
No!
He's  with the C.I.A.  I've seen him at the Embassy.
Don't be a fool! He's Carson Dyle!
Reggie  listen to me!
You lied to me so many times 
Reggie  trust me once more  please.
Can I really believe you this time, Adam?
There's not a reason on earth why you should.
You didn't have to chase me so hard 
Here, give it to me.
I'm sorry I thought you were the murderer, Adam  how did I know that he was as big a liar as you are?
And that's all the gratitude I get for saving your hide.
The truth, now  was it my hide  or the stamps?
What a terrible thing to say. How could you even think that?
All right, prove it to me  tell me to go to the Embassy first thing in the morning and turn in those stamps.
I said, tell me to go to the 
I heard you, I heard you.
Then say it.
Reggie  listen to me 
Never mind  I'll go by myself.
What makes you think they're even interested? It's only a quarter of a million  it'll cost more than that to fix up their bookkeeping. As a taxpayer 
Now Dyle, you listen to me  my mama didn't raise no stupid children. I know who's got the money 'n I ain't disappearing till I got my share  'n' my share's growin' a whole lot bigger ev'ry day.
Where are you, ol' buddy?
I'll tell you what, fella  you want t' find me, you jus' turn 'round  from now on I'll be right behind you.
All right  where's the letter?
The letter? The letter ain't worth nuthin'.
You know what I mean  the envelope with the stamps. I want it.
You greenhorn  you halfwitted, thickskulled, harebrained, greenhorn! They wuz both too smart for us!
What are you talking about?
First her husband, now her  she hoodwinked you! She batted all them big eyes and you went 'n fell for it  like a egg from a tall chicken! Here! You want? Here  it's yours!
You're crazy. Don't let him, Peter.
Shut the fuck up, Jude.
Leave him alone, Peter. He's in love.
That true, Fergus? You in love?
That fucker's dead 
No, we are.
Give me the shooter, Jude 
You're crazy 
Give me the fucking shooter!
The teddy bear?
No, fuck the bear. The name. Jude. And it's June. Jude in June.
Don't run off, Jude.
You don't know me, do you?
What if I did?
You'd know I wouldn't run off.
Never pissed holding a girl's hand, Jude.
You didn't?
And you know what?
Tell me, Jody
Not here.
Who gives a fuck.
You never know.
I never know nothing.
People. They could be looking.
Come and get me, soldier 
Whatever you say, Jude...
See, if we took the hood off, we'd have to shoot you. As it is, you've got a fiftyfifty chance.
Thought you liked me, bitch.
It was fun while it lasted.
Nice lady.
Have you no feelings, woman?
You shut your face 
You're heading for trouble, Fergus 
He's a good soldier, Jude.
I said shut the fuck up 
He believes in the future 
Fuck you.
Yeah.
Eat something, would you?
Can't.
What do you mean you can't?
Can't eat through a canvas bag.
This is a farce, man.
How is it a farce?
I seen your fucking face.
So, what do I look like?
You're the one about five ten with the killer smile and the baby face.
Am I?
Yeah. And the brown eyes.
Thank you, handsome.
My pleasure.
How did you know it was her?
I can smell her perfume.
Please, man, I'm suffocating in here.
Can't we take it off?
Now, if you took the ropes off, I'd be able to feed myself.
No fucking way.
Only joking.
What's that?
Five ten. Brown eyes. But you're no pinup.
No?
Nope. Not handsome at all.
You trying to hurt my feelings?
No. It's the truth.
Well, I could say the same about you.
Could you?
But I won't. We're more polite around these parts.
So I've noticed.
Hey 
What is it now?
You're going to have to do it, aren't you?
Do what?
Kill me.
What makes you think that?
They're going to let that guy die. And you're going to kill me.
They won't let him die.
You want to bet?
I'm not a gambling man.
And even if he doesn't die  you can't just let me loose.
Why can't we?
Not in your nature.
What do you know about my nature?
I'm talking about your people, not you.
What the fuck do you know about my people?
Only that you're all tough undeluded motherfuckers. And that it's not in your nature to let me go.
Shut the fuck up, would you?
And you know the funny thing?
No, what's the funny thing?
I didn't even fancy her.
Didn't look like that to me...
She's not my type.
C'mere.
No.
Ah, c'mere. I want to show you something.
What?
My inside pocket.
She'd be anyone's type.
Don't you think of it, fucker.
Why not?
She's mine. Anyway, she wouldn't suit you.
No?
Absolutely not.
She your wife?
Suppose you could say that.
You make a nice couple.
Don't I know it.
So what were you fucking around for, then?
You fuckers set me up. That bitch 
She's a friend of mine
Okay. That nice lady. Meets me in a bar. I'm saying what the fuck am I doing here anyway. She buys me a drink. She holds my hand. I'm looking at her saying I don't like you, bitch. But what the fuck. Maybe I'll get to understand.
What?
What the fuck am I doing here.
What the fuck were you doing here?
I got sent.
You could have said no.
Can't. Once I signed up.
Why did you sign up?
It was a job. So I get sent to the only place in the world they call you nigger to your face.
Shouldn't take it personally.
"Go back to your banana tree, nigger." No use telling them I came from Tottenham.
And you play cricket?.
Best game in the world.
Ever see hurling?
That game where a bunch of paddies whack sticks at each other?
Best game in the world.
Never.
The fastest.
Well, in Antigua cricket's the black man's game. The kids play it from the age of two. My daddy had me throwing googlies from the age of five. Then we moved to Tottenham and it was something different.
How different?
Toffs' game there. But not at home. .
So when you come to shoot me, Paddy, remember, you're getting rid of a shit hot bowler.
I'll bear that in mind.
Nice to meet you, Fergus.
My pleasure, Jody
Take it easy, now. Just go slow. Down by that tree.
Tree.
Can't.
Well then, you're going to have to take my dick out for me, aren t you?
Now, that was worth waiting for.
Hurry up, would you?
These things take time, Fergus.
Now put it back in.
Give us a break.
Thank you. I had a case of the clap two years ago. Crabs in Ulster. But all in all it's served me well.
Shut up, would you?
I'm sorry. Didn't mean to offend you, Fergus.
Fergus?
Yeah?
Thanks. I know that wasn't easy for you.
So what's that supposed to mean?
Means what it says. The scorpion does what is in his nature. Take off the hood, man.
Why?
'Cause you're kind. It's in your nature.
See? I was right about you.
Don't be so sure.
Jody's always right.
Where would you most like to be now, man?
Doesn't matter where.
Come on, man. If this shit was all over.
Having a pint in the Rock.
You lack imagination, Fergus. Think of something more alluring.
Like what?
Like having a pint in the Metro 
Having two pints in the Rock.
Having a pint in the Metro, and Dil's having a margarita.
Who's Dil?
My special friend.
Oh, yeah.
We got simple tastes, you and me.
The best.
But you fellas never get a break, do you?
Do you?
Oh, yes. We do a tour of duty and we're finished. But you guys are never finished, are you?
We don't look on it like that.
I've often wondered how you do it.
Depends on what you believe in.
What do you believe in?
That you guys shouldn't be here.
It's as simple as that?
Yes.
Is it bad?
No. Not bad. Women are trouble, you know that, Fergus?
I didn't.
Some kinds of women are...
She can't help it.
Dil wasn't trouble. No trouble at all.
You liked her?
Present tense, please. Love her. Whatever she is. I'm thinking of her now, Fergus. Will you think of her too?
Don't know her.
Want you to do something, Fergus.
What?
If they kill me 
Don't think that way.
But they will. As sure as night follows day. They have to. I want you to find her out. Tell her I was thinking of her.
See if she's all right.
I don't know her.
Take her picture. C'mere.
Take the whole lot. I won't need it.
I told you not to talk that way 
Go to Millie's Hair Salon in Spitalfields. Take her to the Metro for a margarita. Don't have to tell her who you are. Just tell her Jody was thinking 
Stop it 
Don't.
I'm sorry.
Help me.
How can I?
I don't know. Just help me. Give me a cigarette.
Go to sleep now.
I don't want to sleep. Tell me something.
What?
A story.
Like the one about the frog?
And the scorpion. No. Tell me anything.
When I was a child...
Yeah?
I thought as a child. But when I became a man I put away childish things...
What does that mean?
Nothing.
Tell me something, anything.
Not a lot of use, are you, Fergus?
Me? No, I'm not good for much...
Take the hood off, Fergus 
No.
I'm glad you're doing it, do you know that, Fergus?
Why?
Cause you're my friend. And I want you to go to the Metro 
Stop that talk now 
Hurling's a fast game, isn't it, Fergus?
The fastest.
Faster than cricket?
Cricket's in the halfpenny place.
So if I ran now, there's no way I'd beat you, is there?
You won't run.
But if I did... you wouldn't shoot a brother in the back 
You stupid bastard 
What you say, faster?
I said you bastard  stop 
Got to catch me first 
Used to run the mile, you know  four times round the cricket pitch  what was that game called?
Hurling 
What?
Hurling 
Give him a cup of tea.
Do you want a cup of tea?
Made the front page. They'll move now, the fuckers.
Request permission to take the hood off, Tommy.
Why would you do that?
The poor whore's suffocating in the heat.
So?
And anyway, he's seen our faces.
You sure?
He described me down to a T. Knows what Jude looks like.
You're his keeper. If you don't mind him seeing you, I don't mind. But you're the only one he looks at.
Thanks.
It's your decision.
What the fuck is this?
It's nothing. He's just got a sense of humor, that's all.
You're on duty. Keep your fucking mouth shut. Go in and get some sleep.
So he knows your name?
I told him.
Are you all there?
Back in a minute, Jody
You'll have minimal contact with the prisoner, do you hear me?
Yes.
And do you know why?
Why?
Because tomorrow we might have to shoot him, that's why.
You OK about that?
I'm a volunteer, am n't I?
Good. I was beginning to have my doubts about you for the last few days.
Shut up, Jude. You best get some sleep tonight, Fergus.
Peter.
What?
Request permission to guard the prisoner tonight 
Why do you want to do that for?
Would make me feel better about it.
You sure about that?
I'm sure.
Okay. You're a good man, Fergus.
So it was you all the time.
Who'd you think it was?
I thought it was Dave.
And who's Dave when he's at home?
He's at home.
Should blow you away, you know that?
I know that.
I'm getting emotional. And I don't want to get fucking emotional  you understand, Hennessy?
I understand.
Fuck you, too 
And what's she like between the sheets?
Definitely unusual.
And who is she?
Just a girl.
And you know what'll happen if you fuck up again, don't you?
Aye, I do, Peter.
Good.
So what do you think that is, Hennessy?
A hotel?
It's a knockingshop. Tres discreet, huh? He visits his ladies on Tuesday and Thursday nights and Saturday mornings. His security's in the car beyond.
Who is he?
Doesn't matter who he is. He is what we would call a legitimate target.
Thank God for that.
You being cynical, Hennessy?
Hope not.
Good. So what do you think?
Whoever hits him'll be hit, if those men are any good. And I presume you can't get in.
Right.
So it's on the street.
Right.
Kind of suicide, isn't it?
See does he want some.
Do you want some food?
Hey  what's he like?
Horny bastard.
Did you give him it?
There are certain things I wouldn't do for my country.
Have a look at him.
Can't.
Poke him or something. See if he's still alive.
He's all right.
Hasn't moved for twelve hours. Go on. Have a heart.
You don't know that.
Fucking do. I had him all over me.
Tough work, that.
Someone's got to do it.
Leave us, Judie.
My pleasure.
Put that thing back on him, Fergus.
He's hot.
Doesn't matter if he's hot. Just cover the fucker up.
What was it, Fergus? Did you blow the gaff on us or did you just fuck up?
Leave me alone, Jude.
No. That's the last thing I'll do. You never asked what happened.
I heard.
Eddie and Tinker died.
I know.
Maguire and me got out by the skin of our teeth. No thanks to you.... What you think of the hair?
Suits you.
We had a courtmartial in your absence. They wanted to put a bullet in your head. I pleaded for clemency. Said we should find out what happened first. So what did happen?
He ran. I couldn't shoot him in the back. I tried to catch him. He made it to the road and got hit by a Saracen.
So you did fuck up.
Yes.
But you know what the thing is, Fergus?
No, what is the thing?
You vanished quite effectively. Became Mister Nobody. And you've no idea how useful that could be.
What do you mean?
We've got some plans here. And we'll need a Mister Nobody to execute them.
No way, Jude. I'm out.
You're never out, Fergus.
Leave her out of this.
Jesus, Fergus, you're a walking cliche. You know we won't leave her out of this. But I'm glad to see you care.
She's nobody. She likes me.
So I suppose a fuck is out of the question. Keep your head down, Fergus. No sudden moves. And not a whisper to her. You'll be hearing from us.
But, then, I don't have a choice.
Och, you do, Fergie.
Of course. I forgot.
Come on, Fergie. A rehearsal.
And then you'll leave her out of it?
Aye. Then we'll leave her be.
And what if I say no?
You know what. Go.
You were made for this.
Was I?
Perfect.
And what happens then?
We'll be on the other side. We'll move when you do.
And what if you don't?
Fergus, I think you don't trust me.
You may be right.
Stay late at your work tomorrow night and I'll bring you the gear.
Jude?
Yes?
Who's the old geezer?
Some judge...
You a handyman, Fergie?
I take pride in my work.
I sincerely hope so.
Dil!
Get that thing off me, Fergus 
Fergus!
You're back in the pink, Tommy? How're you keeping?
You'll notice I've asked you nothing.
That's wise, Tommy.
All right, then. I like to be wise.
So what do you need, Fergus?
Need to go across the water.
Do you now.
Need to lose myself awhile.
Aha.
Lucky you.
Carnations.
What was it?
You know her, Jimmy?
Jimmy, is it? Do you know me, Jimmy?
Yeah. Just checking. He being nice to you, Dil?
Ever so nice. Aren't you, Jimmy?
That's good. I'm glad. Young love, as they say.
Absolutely. The younger the better. Doesn't come your way much, I suppose.
Don't go looking for it, Dil.
Well, maybe you'll get lucky. Someday.
A bit heavy on the powder, isn't she, Jimmy?
A girl has to have a bit of glamour.
Absolutely. Long as she can keep it. Isn't that right, James...
Someone recommend you?
In a way.
Who?
Guy I work with.
What's his name?
Doesn't the water get to your nails?
What's it to you?
Nothing.
You American?
No.
Not English.
No.
Scottish?
How'd you guess?
The accent, I suppose.
And what's it like?
Like treacle.
That should make her happy.
Who's she?
Don't know. Who is she?
Tell her I'm very happy with it.
He's Scottish, Col.
Jimmy.
Jimmy?
Everybody wants something.
Not me.
Not you. How quaint. How oldfashioned and quaint. Isn't it, Col?
You oldfashioned?
Must be.
Hi.
Hi. You forgot your bag.
What was that?
They all get the wrong idea.
You all right?
Yes, thank you.
What was that all about?
He wants me to perform for him.
Perform?
You know.
You on the game?
God no. I'm a hairdresser.
He's getting up.
You can't leave me then, can you?
You want me to ask you in, right?
No, I didn't 
But I'm not cheap, you know that? Loud, but never cheap.
Now, if you asked me to meet you tomorrow, it would really drive him insane.
Where?
Halffive. At Millie's.
Give me that look again.
What look?
The one you gave me in the Metro.
What's that about?
They're jealous.
Why?
I wonder.
Now's the time you're meant to do something, isn't it?
Like what?
Make a pass or something. Isn't that the way it goes?
Must be.
You got a special friend, Jimmy?
How special?
You want one?
Jesus Christ!
Jesus.
That Dave?
The things a girl has to put up with.
Piss off, Dave!
Tough guy, huh? Are you going to be all right on your own?
I'm not on my own, am I?
Would you like a drink?
Yes, please.
What'll it be?
Whiskey.
Someone out there.
Jesus fucking Christ.
Sorry. How'd he drive with his neck in a brace?
Must be in love to manage that.
Doesn't know the meaning of the word.
He lived here with you?
Tried to. Sit down, will you?
He was different.
How different?
As different as it's possible to be.
Tell me about him.
No.
Shouldn't I go?
Yes.
No 
Did you do that to him?
You want to know how I kissed him?
Yes...
Are you jealous of him?
Maybe.
That's good...
What would he think?
Can't think. He's dead. In Ireland. He was a soldier. Went there like a fool.
Do you miss him?
What do you think?
I think you do.
You say that like a gentleman.
Do I?
Like you're concerned.
But you can t stay, you know that?
Didn't think I could.
A real gentleman...
Shouldn't you be in mourning?
I am.
Did he come here too?
Is this an obsession of yours?
Maybe.
He did sometimes.
Did he dance with you?
So what do you want with me, Jimmy?
Want to look after you.
What does that mean?
Something I heard someone say once.
You mean that?
Yeah.
Why?
If I told you, you wouldn't believe me.
Drink.
What is this?
I'm superstitious. Drink.
Can't leave me now.
Aha.
The thing is, can you go the distance?
Depends what it is.
No, depends on nothing.
What you thinking of, hon?
I'm thinking of your man.
Why?
I'm wondering why you keep his things.
Told you, I'm superstitious.
Did he ever tell you you were beautiful?
All the time.
Even now.
No...
He looks after me. He's a gentleman too.
Tell him to stop messing Dil around 
Dil 
Tell him it hurt 
I have to talk to her, Col 
Come on, Dil 
Where?
Never let the sun go down on an argument, Jody used to say.
What you doing here?
Got your note. So let's kiss and make up, hon.
Don't call me that.
Sorry, darling.
Give it over, Dil 
Apologies, my sweet.
You're something else, Dil, you know that?
Never said a truer word.
See, I was always best looking after someone. Must be something in the genes.
Must be.
And the fact that you didn't know is basically the fault of yours truly. And even when you were throwing up, I could tell you cared.
You could?
Do you care, Jimmy?
Sure I do.
You mean that?
Yeah. I care, Dil.
My, oh my, Jimmy, how gallant.
Shut up.
Made me feel all funny inside.
I said stop it.
Ask me to meet you again, Jimmy.
You think that's wise?
Nothing's wise.
I didn't mean to hit you.
I know that.
Kind of liked you as a girl.
That's a start.
So I'm sorry.
Make it up to me, then.
How?
Ask to meet me again.
Will you meet me again?
When?
Whenever. Tonight.
Do they know?
Know what, honey?
Know what I didn't know. And don't call me that.
Can't help it, Jimmy. A girl has her feelings.
Thing is, Dil, you're not a girl.
Details, baby, details.
So they do know.
All right, they do.
Don't.
Sorry.
I should have known, shouldn't I?
Probably.
Kind of wish I didn't.
You can always pretend.
That's true.... Your soldier knew, didn't he?
Absolutely.
Won't be quite the same though, will it?
Are you pretending yet?
I'm working on it.
There's Dave. He knew too.
Stop it, Jimmy.
Am I becoming repetitious?
A little.
Sorry.
Don't ask me in.
Please, Jimmy.
No. Can't pretend that much.
I miss you, Jimmy.
Should have stayed a girl.
Don't be cruel.
Okay. Be a good girl and go inside.
Only if you kiss me.
Happy now?
Delirious.
What?
He'd bring me carnations.
So I got it wrong, then.
Not at all, honey.
Don't.
Okay.
Come on.
Why, honey 
Come on.
You gonna tell me why?
No.
What's wrong, Jimmy? Tell me what's wrong 
Not here.
Dil, this is Jude.
You following me?
It's her, isn't it?
What's her?
She's the thing you had to tell me.
Kind of.
I'm sorry, you know that? I'm really sorry.
Shouldn't be, Dil
Why shouldn't I be jealous?
She own you, Jimmy?
Yes.
She from Scotland too?
You could say that.
And you're not going to tell me more?
I can't.
What you doing, Jimmy?
I'm not sure.
Do you like me even a little bit?
More than that.
You do something for me, Dil?
Anything.
You'd do anything for me?
Afraid so.
You got the keys to the shop?
You want another haircut, baby?
No. Sit down.
You said anything, Dil
A girl has to draw the line somewhere 
Want to change you to a man, Dil...
Why?
It's a secret.
You'd like me better that way, Jimmy?
Yes.
And you wouldn't leave me?
No.
You promise?
I promise.
You're no good at this, Jimmy.
I'm sorry.
You want to make me look like him...
No. Want to make you into something new. That nobody recognizes...
So it's true, then?
What?
You like me better like this.
Yes.
Don't call me that 
Sorry. What you doing?
Why?
For me.
For you...
Why are we going here, Jimmy?
Look on it like a honeymoon.
Dil! Dil! What the fuck are you doing here?
I'm going home!
Told you to stay in the hotel!
Thought you was fooling me. Thought you was leaving me.
I had to go to work!
Stayed all day in that room thinking every noise was you. There's something you're not telling me, Jimmy.
Come on...
No! I'm going home...
So tell me.
I was trying to get out of something.
No! Tell me everything, Jimmy.
You got to forget you ever saw me, Dil.
You mean that?
Yes.
You heard what I said, Dil?
My pills...
What pills?
Prescription. For my condition.
What condition?
Are you supposed to take that many?
Only in times of extreme stress.
Are you all right, Dil?
I will be.
Goodbye, Dil
Jimmy?
What?
Don't go like that.
Dil Can I tell you something? I knew your man.
You knew which man?
Your soldier.
You knew my Jody?
Lifted him from a carnival in Belfast. Held him hostage for three days.
You knew my Jody?
Are you listening?
Yes.
I got the order to shoot him. Before I could do it he ran. Ran into a tank and died.
Died...
Did you hear me?
You killed my Jody?
In a manner of speaking.
It was you...
You killed my Jody
No.
You didn't.
I suppose I tried.
You tried.
Don't you want to kill me?
Don't leave me tonight. Might kill me, too.
Okay.
Wondered why you came on to me like that when you gave me the look.
He asked me to see were you all right.
See, I fix on anyone that's nice to me. Just the littlest bit nice and I'm yours.
Stop it, Dil 
Just don't kick Dil and she'll be touched. Be nice to her and she'll be yours forever.
See, I should blow you away, Jimmy. But I can't do that. Yet.
Let me go, Dil
Why?
Got to be somewhere.
Try and go, then.
Let me go for fuck's sake, Dil  or they'll be here
Let them come then.
You like me now, Jimmy?
I like you, Dil 
Give me a bit more, baby, a bit more.
More what?
More endearments.
I like you, DIl
Love me.
Yes.
Tell me you love me.
Whatever you say, Dil.
Then say it.
Love you, Dil.
You do?
Yeah.
What would you do for me?
Anything.
Say it again.
I'd do anything for you, Dil.
And you'll never leave me?
Never.
I know you're lying, Jimmy, but it's nice to hear it.
What was that she called you, Jimmy?
Fergus.
What's Fergus?
It's my name, Dil 
What happened to Jimmy?
Dil!!!
I asked you a question, honey  were you there too 
She was 
And she used her tits and that cute little ass to get him, didn't she?
Yes.
Tell me what she wore.
Can't remember...
You've got to go now, Dil 
Do I?
Yes. Now.
Am I in trouble, Jimmy?
Not if you go.
Will I see you again?
You will, Dil
Promise?
I promise.
Where am I to go, Jimmy?
The Metro.
Meet Col 
Yes. Say hello to Col 
Got you the multivitamins and the iron tablets, hon 
Don't call me that 
Sorry, love. Now, the white ones are magnesium supplement 
Stop it, Dil 
I've got to keep you healthy, Jimmy. I'm counting the days. Two thousand three hundred and thirtyfour left.
Thirtyfive.
I'm sorry, darling. I keep forgetting the leap year. What am I supposed to call you then, Jimmy?
Fergus.
Fergus. Fergus my love, light of my life  
Please, Dil 
Can't help it. You're doing time for me. No greater love, as the man says. Wish you'd tell me why.
As the man said, it's in my nature.
What's that supposed to mean?
How much did that frame cost, Mr. Franknum?
Two hundred quid, Mr. Deveroux.
Your Pat just cost me two hundred quid.
Sorry won't bring the bloody thing back, will it, Mr. Franknum?
Not in my experience.
Off his wages.
I'm sure you do, Mr. Deveroux.
Bloody right I do...
It's not Pat. It's Jim.
Jim, Pat, Mick, what the fuck. Long as you remember you're not at Lords.
Do you mean that?
He wants to know do I mean that.
Is that his tart? Does Pat have a tart?
She's not a tart.
No, of course not, she's a lady.
She's not that either.
Do it on your own time, Paddy.
What?
Whatever it is she does for you.
If I was her I'd consider that an insult.
Consider it how you like. Just get that bloody tart out of here.
What's that supposed to mean?
It's a simple question.
Fuck off, Dave.
C'mon, babe! You know what I like... Easy!
You fucking promised.
Did I?
You fucking did.
Don't be like that 
You heard me 
Thank you.
Who the fuck is he?
Jimmy.
It's him, isn't it?
Maybe.
See, they get the wrong idea.
Cunt.
Cunt. Scrageyed dyke cunt.
Charming.
He's going to take his foot off slowly, David. Then you're to go home, like a good boy. You hear me?
Cunt.
Hey, Stirling fucking Moss 
It's Dave.
Sure, Dave 
Please, Dil 
Take your clothes.
Don't throw my clothes out the window!
Fuck off back to Essex!
Fucking mad!
Don't chuck my clothes out!
Take your fucking goldfish, too!
Look, I'm sorry.
Fuck off, Dave.
No, I won't fucking fuck off. Said I'm sorry, didn't I?
Yeah. I heard. You hear, Jimmy?
See that, Col?
See what, Dil?
He gave me a look.
Did he?
Just cut his hair, you know.
Yeah?
What you think?
Nice.
Saw that one.
What would you call it?
Now, that was a look.
Now he can look.... Ask him does he like his hair, Col.
She wants to know, sir, do you like your hair.
He agreed that he was.
What do you think his name is?
I've no thoughts on the subject.
That's what he said. Jimmy.
Hi, Jimmy.
He's still looking, Col.
Persistent.
Good thing in a man.
An excellent quality.
Maybe he wants something.
I would expect he does.
Ask him.
Ask him yourself.
He's back, Col
Hi.
Don't want any of those looks, Col. They don't mean much.
Stop it, Dil 
No. Tell him to go fuck himself.
You see that, Col?
Saw it, Dil.
Fuck it, is what I say.
Yeah. Fuck it, Dil.
Fucking men, Col 
Scottish?
Yeah.
So can we consider you a regular, sir?
Is that good or bad?
Well, you get to say, The usual, Col. Things like that.
So let's call this the usual.
Thanks.
It takes all types.
So who's he?
He's what she should run a mile from.
Then why doesn't she?
Who knows the secrets of the human heart.
She wants me to tell you go fuck yourself.
I'm sorry.
You could always make it up to her.
How?
When a girl runs out like that, she generally wants to be followed.
She's not a girl, Col 
Whatever you say.
I already called for an ambulance.
You've got a <u>phone</u>?
Doesn't everybody?
Can I make a quick call?
Government business?
Very official. 2597881, if I recall.
What kind of Treasury Dept. business is this?
Undercover.
I thought so.
Your partners are currently armed and we're not. Our edge is that they don't know we're in touch.
The 405 is coming up.
Where is this canyon house where you're supposed to hook up?
Let's have your name and address. The government will want to send you a letter of commendation.
Who the fuck you kidding? Send me money!
You sure know how to take a lot of punishment.
From here on, I dish it out.
Don't be afraid to say hello. Your friend with the recent transplant is in no condition to deliver that briefcase. So I've taken on the task.
Who are you?
Let me talk to the lady again.
There's no lady here.
If you've already killed her that's fine. I'll keep the bonds and the cash. We got nothing to discuss.
Hold on.
If her kid or her old man have been harmed we've also got nothing to talk about.
Let her tell you.
Since when did you guys start changing tires?
Only you <u>don't</u> have a flat.
Seems not.
If you weren't going for a spare what were you doing?
Something was rattling around. Some loose tools.
Mind if I have a look?
Why are you picking on me for?
Was I picking on you? How come you pulled in back of this fruitstand?
Tell the truth, I was going to take a much needed leak.
What's he doing? Answer me!
Better reassure him.
Who am I talking to?
Call me "Nels."
Okay Nels, you can always keep what you've got and haul ass leaving the lovely lady for me to worry about. I'll bet she can be friendly when it's in her best interests.
If you're looking for a quickie all you've got to do is ask.
I think I've already had a "quickie." Thank you.
If he pulls me over he gets all the proceeds plus Lenore here.
And if you ditch us we get zilch.
Sure, I end up with some cash. And a lot of bonds I don't know how to dispose of.
You're going to have to see to it that both lanes of this road get blocked.
The fuck I will!
It's in your interest, Nels, since the additional passenger in my trunk  an LAPD officer is probably carrying a few bullets in him traceable to the piece you're carrying. Tell the man.
You researched me. You know where I live. She'll be waiting for you there along with your split.
There's two police cars now.
Tailgate me. I'll jam on the brakes. You go into a spin to avoid an accident and cut them off.
You want us to get ourselves killed?
From what I can see you're a pretty fair wheelman. There's a hairpin coming up  that's the place for it. The cops'll plow right into you.
And I end up in a fucking neck brace for life!
Then you can sue the cops. Collect from both ends. Tighten your belts. Here it comes. Ready?
Yeah?
I just strolled out of the emergency room while they were admitting Rodriego.
You couldn't be calling at a worse time, Nels.
Yeah?
Nels! Guess who? A friendly voice from beyond the grave.
Who's this?
I thought you'd know me by now.
What does it take to kill you?
I suppose you're in your taxi?
Why would she want me to think you were on ice?
Intelligent question, Nels. I believe she had plans for both our bodies to be found in close proximity.
That bitch. What's keeping you from taking off?
My compensation! Somebody still owes me  big time!
I can see the benefit in that.
You could always disappear with what's already in your backpack.
Not without the name of the contact who can discount the bonds. I may need to pry that information out of her. What do you stand to gain?
Sweet revenge plus maybe a bit of vigorish off your end.
In the hills above Sunset. Just below the Getty.
Take the 405 south.
How far off are you?
Five minutes.
Where do I turn?
Take the Getty Center exit  make a right onto Cisco. It'll be a narrow winding road. You can't miss the house. It's a mansion built back in '29  Spanish  boarded up since the quake.
Have your cab wait at the foot of Cisco  we'll ride up together.
And make ourselves a hell of a target.
We're gonna get there first.
How do you know?
Believe me. They couldn't be busier at the moment.
Better haul ass if we're gonna be inside to greet them.
I've got a couple of spare pieces stashed under the floorboards.
Where's the backpack?
None of your business, but it's in the cab. That's all mine. When we take from them, we divide, eightytwenty.
At those prices I'd just as soon your cabbie didn't get a look at me.
Probably as close to the Getty as I'll ever come. Unless you care to be my "patron," Nels. You wouldn't be the first successful thief to become a patron of the arts.
In your dreams.
Don't underestimate me. I've got original ideas of my own. Warhol got famous doing a soup can. What would you think of a cellular phone done in acrylics?
Are you busting my chops or what?
Somebody better tear this down before it falls down.
Stay put! I know my way around.
Who were you talking to?
Them. They won't be expecting us.
Brilliant  unless they were close enough to see the cab pull away. In which case you just warned them.
Nobody can do anything right but you!
I'm in awe.
Following which we will have a serious question and answer session with your girlfriend.
Who are you working for?
I'm self employed. What kind of cut did the hairy one have?
Twenty percent.
Fine. I want half. Plus the release of the family.
Whatever you say.
You're making it too easy.
You got time on your side. Pretty soon they'll be missed and we'll have the law up our ass.
They saw you kill the driver.
You're up on your details, aren't you?
You can rely on them to keep quiet because this is undeclared money that could land Jack there in federal prison. He can't afford for you to get caught and have this briefcase appear as evidence.
Keep talking.
You're walking away with a clear fifty percent and a guarantee nobody can afford to I.D. you.
There are no guarantees in this life.
Granted. But I don't believe they're grieving enough for their chauffeur to piss away their own futures.
Where do we meet?
It's a nice day. How about the beach?
Pass.
A large stretch of empty space with no place to hide. Temescal Canyon parking lot.
What time frame have you got in mind?
It should take me twenty minutes. Where are you coming from?
We can be there.
I want you all in one vehicle. Your van. If I see anybody else cruising around I'll keep going. No second chances. You can kill them and I'll keep what I've got.
Some loyalty.
There's no loyalty at the expense of my own ass.
Tell the lady to relax. Tell her I can't wait to meet her in person.
She's somewhat damaged in the shipping. But nothing makeup won't cover.
Got a phone in that van?
Sure.
Take my number. When you see me  call me and I'll walk you through the exchange. It's 3089962  Repeat it back.
3089962.
Beats yelling our brains out across some parking lot.
You're getting a lot of mileage out of that cellular.
I wish it had never been invented.
I'm here. Where are you?
We don't see you.
I'm three quarters of the way up the lot behind the concession stand.
Stay there.
I don't want you within two hundred feet. Park down by the lifeguard station. Nobody gets out.
It's your call.
Fucking "A" it is! Any argument and I'm out of here.
Just relax.
I don't need to relax. The woman. Put her on.
You'll see her.
I don't want to see her later. I want to hear her <u>now</u>.
Talk to the man.
Satisfied?
You already tried to pull one little number on me  and it didn't work.
I don't know what you mean.
I still don't see you.
We're waiting for the light to cross the highway. It just changed. We're in a grey van. It reads "<u>Noble Carpet Cleaners</u>."
We're waiting on you.
Then just wait. I'm counting this all out and deducting my share. While I'm at it you can be getting that tape off the lady. And her little girl.
It's in the process.
I make my end of the cash at 184,000. Now I'm trying to figure out the bonds. What the face value is.
You should've done all this before.
I'm not accepting criticism today. Now don't make me lose count. There's already a half million in this portfolio.
Her husband said there'd be one million eight. So nine hundred to you.
My pleasure 
Be careful in disposing of them. You'll have to discount 'em. You'll be lucky to clear a hundred and a quarter.
Thanks for the sound advice. Now ask the woman to get out of the van and walk over here. Alone.
Negative.
You'll still have the girl and the husband.
And not a nickel.
Soon as Mrs. Oberfeld is in my car I'll toss out your first third. Then I'll back up 200 feet to behind the public restroom.
And then?
You pull up  collect your first installment. Then you let the daughter go. When she reaches me, I'll dump out another third. Same action. I back up again  you pull forward. Satisfy yourself it's there. Then we do it one last time. The final exchange. And we go our separate ways.
And they run straight to the cops who start looking for our van.
I won't let 'em.
I'm opening the side door. She'll step out. But before she gets in your vehicle I want to see the first installment put down in plain view. If it isn't there I'm shooting her in the back.
Are you trying to panic the women?
That's how it is. You see her approaching you toss out installment one.
I'm tying it up in a bundle now. Where is she?
Stop the crying.
She's yours. What are we waiting on?
I'm backing up.
Count it.
Don't worry.
Next I want to see Rachel. Put her on the phone before she gets out so her mother can tell her exactly what to do. Keep her calm. Tell her you're fine and that she can join you in this car.
Seems like it.
Put the girl on.
Yeah. Why don't we?
What are you planning to do when they got here? They'll kill us. They'll kill Rachel.
Thank God  thank God I've got you.
Who is this?
You mustn't hang up.
Oh God  Oh no  Help me  Don't let me  Die.
Didn't we play this scene before?
Don't leave me here to die  Theo, please  you can't let me die 
I'm afraid I've used up all my good deeds for the day.
Do I know you?
I've been trying to get someone  anyone. For hours ...
If this is some sales pitch I'm not buying 
You don't understand.
No. <u>You</u> don't understand! You caught me on my cellular on the way to pick up some business associates. And I've got no time to screw around.
Will you let me explain!
And what're you whispering for?
I can't talk any louder. They might hear.
Lady, try making some sense.
You may be our only chance. I don't know if I can do this again.
What'd you do! Just pick my number out of the air?
They smashed the phone. I've been clicking the loose wires together hoping it'd make a connection.
Who smashed the phone?
They're holding my husband downstairs.
Sure. And they left you upstairs to make phone calls?
They gave me pills to make me sleep. They didn't realize how much Seconal I'm used to  that I'd have so much tolerance 
Well I'm not tolerant of being bothered with this bullshit story when I'm about to make the most important score of my life. This has gotta be some "puton," right?
I'm sorry. I'm so sorry to do this to you.
You're not doing anything to me  because  listen to this carefully  I do not care.
I don't believe you.
You're the one who's not to be believed.
My name is 
I don't want to know 
My name is Lenore Oberfeld.
Don't expect me to tell you who I am.
I realize you don't want to be involved.
I am not involved. Keep clicking your little wires. You'll get someone else. Good luck.
You won't disconnect.
Oh won't I?
Because you know you'll be killing us.
Don't lay this on me!
Then hang up! Do it!
Why would anybody want to hurt you?
They tortured my husband. Made him give them the pin numbers of our accounts. Once they get what's in the safe deposit box they'll kill us.
Where'd they take you to?
I have no idea. They put us in the back of a van with blacked out windows. The shutters up here are nailed shut.
Well isn't there a number on the goddam phone?
No  nothing.
Okay. The police are gonna need your full name and address.
No! No police. They'll know right away the authorities are looking for us. They'll kill us. We've seen their faces.
The cops could trace this call back to you.
One of them <u>is</u> a cop.
What makes you say that?
He pulled us over as we left the Riviera Tennis Club. Claimed we'd run a stop sign. And when Elliot was reaching for his license 
Who?
Elliot  our driver. The officer put his gun to the back of Elliot's head and  fired. It was so quick.
Oh man. These people mean business.
Then they took the Mercedes away  with his body in it.
Listen, there's an overpass coming up. I may lose you for a minute.
No don't. You could lose me for good. Don't go through that tunnel.
I'm in traffic. There's no place to turn.
Please.
Shit!
Fine, no tunnel. Are you still with me? Hello?
I hear them coming upstairs. I won't be able to talk for awhile. I have to lay the phone down and pretend to be asleep. So don't talk. Don't say a word or they'll hear it.
I can't stay on this line. I'm picking people up. I'm already overdue. Hello?
I'm fine. She's back on. Hello? I'm here.
They just walked out. The smaller man  he must be Dominican or Haitian  he kicked me so hard. I felt a rib crack but I never made a sound. It's starting to hurt now  real bad. A throbbing. I can't even take a deep breath.
Don't move around. You don't want to puncture a lung.
I'm with two friends now.
Rachel! They're going after Rachel now  and I can't stop them.
Stop throwing names at me.
Rachel, my daughter. She's an honor student at Parker. My God, she's only nine.
What do they need her for?
They know Jack will give them what they want once they have her.
Bottom line! There's nothing I can do for you but tip the cops.
The bigger man is driving our Mercedes to the school. Rachel will recognize the car. She'll get right in.
Let me call the school  tell them not to let her go.
They don't know you. They won't listen.
He's right. You'll get my whole family killed.
He's right? Look, don't try to put blood on my hands. You've got one hell of a nerve siding with him!
"Theo?"
Forget who I am. Where's this school located?
26th off Wilshire.
Even if I got there first she wouldn't go with me.
She would if she heard my voice on the phone.
Why isn't anyone answering me?
Just hang on. I've got a life of my own.
Will you please speak to me! Theo?
Another minute.
Hello? It's just me and you again.
What about the others?
I kind of dropped them off. They were getting on my nerves.
What are you doing now?
What do you think I'm doing? I'm on my way to the school like you wanted.
Forget about us. Just save Rachel.
Tell me what she looks like.
They say she resembles me  dark hair, ponytail, very dark eyes. They all wear the same uniform. Please. Be careful. The man driving the car must have a gun.
I'm not looking to get myself killed. I just hope the battery on this phone holds out.
Where's the fucking recharger cord? Must be in her car, dammit.
How much time do you have left on it?
I don't know. 80 or 90 minutes, tops.
Why didn't you do what your friends wanted and just  get rid of me?
I don't know. I hung up on somebody else a long time ago, and later on I wished I hadn't of.
A woman?
Hey drop it, okay?
I didn't mean to open up any old wounds.
It never healed. I called her a lying bitch and everything else and I hung up on her. "Click." You don't exist.
And that was the end of it?
I sure as hell got my wish. She doesn't exist. So maybe you reached the appropriate person after all.
I'm sorry if I caused you to lose your business deal.
Well you did.
What do you do for a living?
Sometimes I paint.
Our house always needs touching up.
Pictures.
I didn't mean to insult you. You're an artist.
They say my work is somewhat derivative.
I suppose if you're a struggling artist you need a patron.
Lady, you don't have to keep up a running commentary.
I'm afraid if I stop talking I'll lose you. Just name any reasonable amount and it's yours.
Shit, stop with the money! I never asked for a nickel. I was just doing this. And you have to fuck it up with a price tag.
I didn't mean to. It's just the way I am.
A price on everything.
I wasn't always like that. I don't think I was.
I'm about ten blocks from the school.
I have no right to ask for help. I've never thought of anybody but myself.
That makes two of us.
You're breaking up. I can't hear you. Theo?
There are cables overhead. Hang on. It'll clear up.
I've lost you. You're gone. I can't hear anything.
Make a right. You can't miss it.
I'm making my turn. I see the school up ahead.
Lenore, I'm here. I'm getting out.
I can hear you again, clearly.
Great. Stay with me. There must be a hundred kids out here.
Does she have a red ribbon on that ponytail?
That's not her.
Does she wear glasses?
No.
I've got to ask somebody.
What's happening?
She's gone 
Don't say anything. Don't alarm them. Just go!
I'm trying to.
He's copying down my license  for all the good it'll do him.
It's not your fault, Theo. You tried.
I should've put them out of the car and come sooner!
When Jack sees they've got Rachel HE'LL tell them what they want to know.
You said they wanted to get into some particular safety deposit box?
The one in Brentwood.
What bank?
The City National on San Vincente.
Wait just a minute. Our luck has changed.
What do you mean?
Black Mercedes, 600S.
I'm not doing too well. What's the matter?
I heard someone pulling in behind the house. I heard Rachel screaming and then she stopped all of a sudden. I don't know what they did to her.
Which means you can't be more than five or ten minutes from here.
Even if you found us  what then?
I'm cutting across to Bundy to Brentwood. That bank is our best bet. If anybody shows up I could follow them.
Jack will negotiate with them. He'll identify the right key and give them the information they need to gain access and they'll let Rachel go.
Not a chance.
Don't say that.
Do you know what's in that box?
I'm not supposed to  but I do. Millions in cash and bearer bonds.
They'll recognize it's not your husband.
Jack was only at that branch once when he took the box years ago.
They've still got to be able to sign his name.
It's not hard to do. I do it all the time.
I'm pretty good at signatures myself.
Oh my God. I heard her scream again. What are they doing to her? Why can't I do anything to stop them?
You're doing what you can. Why's all this money stashed?
To hide it from the I.R.S.
How come everybody turns out to be a crook?
Don't talk. Don't talk!
What's going on?
The front door slammed. Someone went out. There's a different car starting.
I might still get there first. The lights are with me. How would I identify the guy who shows up at the bank?
If it's the tall man  he had one of those hair transplants. Tufts, you know. It still hasn't grown fully in. The other one is from the islands. Braided hair  very dark.
It won't be him.
Theo, I want you to know, you're probably the most decent man I've ever met.
Yeah, sure that's me. Ask anybody.
But I guess we haven't really met  have we?
I've got a lot of respect for you too. For the way you feel about your family.
Jack hasn't loved me for years. And now I'm afraid she's turning out to be like him. So cold and distant. I've let him make her like that.
Why tell me this?
Because you're probably the last person I'll ever talk to.
You can't give up.
When they first started questioning Jack  he answered them in that tone he usually reserves for me. And they began beating him. And I watched. And I didn't feel anything ... What kind of a person am I?
Did you jiggle the phone?
No.
Did you hear that click?
Yes  I think so. Another crossed line?
Or somebody else there is listening in 
Downstairs. There must be an extension. Oh my God 
Don't panic. I might be wrong. Hello? I guess I was wrong.
No. I hear them. They're coming upstairs. They know!
Try what you did before. It worked before. I won't talk anymore.
Yes? Yes?
Hi Lenore. It's me. I got you back. Courtesy of Star 69. Are you hurt?
They dragged me downstairs. I thought they were going to kill me.
Lucky for them they didn't.
What did you do?
I had a little encounter at the bank and our Mr. Transplant ended up under the wheels of a Chevy.
God, if he doesn't come back 
I'm in possession of the bag he was carrying. And I'm in a position to negotiate. What about your husband and your child?
They're tied with duct tape so they can't speak  but they seem to be 
Thank you. God bless you for helping us.
Are you okay?
They wrapped tape around my wrists and ankles.
That's coming off. How about the girl?
She's awake but she hasn't spoken. I don't know what they did to her. I don't want to think about it.
Your husband?
He's in back. Lying face down. They haven't hurt him anymore  but he was crying. I never heard Jack cry before 
You're all three of you in that van?
Yes.
Now you're going to do just what I tell you to. No discussion. No hesitation.
Yes sir.
Put the man back on.
Lenore  you promised you'd follow instructions. We're almost there. Simply get out when they slide the van open and walk to me.
I'm not leaving my daughter behind. Not with them.
She's next. In two or three more minutes she'll be free.
I can't do it.
Don't start thinking about it. Is the tape off?
Yes.
Can you walk?
Yes. But I want Rachel to come with me.
They won't allow that. It's one at a time. And you have to be first.
Why can't it be her?
She's a child. She might panic. She doesn't know me. She might not come to me. She might just run.
All right. Now that you explain it I see that you're right.
Once you're in the car with me she's sure to come to us.
I'm sorry. You've thought this out better than I ever could. I'm ready now.
Rachel  Oh my God.
Just start walking. Come on. Walk to me.
It's locked.
Shit. I'm sorry.
Rachel was terrified when I left her. I could see it in her eyes.
She'll be with you soon. They're pulling up. They'll realize I kept my part of the bargain.
She'll never be the same. None of us will.
Include me in that.
Now I have  it's a long story.
Why didn't you just shoot them?
Because a lot of people would've gotten killed. Probably all the wrong ones.
You're going to let them get away with this?
We've almost got your husband and your daughter out. So don't get any ideas.
They tortured us. And you're going to let them have all that money?
So far they're keeping their part of it.
They put their hands all over me.
Somehow I got along better with you on the phone. It's all there isn't it?
For Christ sakes don't point it at me. We want to get Rachel out of there in one piece. I'm waiting for the girl. Her mother wants to talk to her.
Hand me the phone.
He had a gun. I have it now.
Why are you telling him that. Are you crazy?
The rest of the money is here in the car. Why don't you come and get it?
You're not Lenore Oberfeld.
There isn't any such person.
Whose money is this?
It belongs to the man you took it from. Or should I saw <u>stole</u> it from?
The guy with the transplant.
Jack Oberfeld in person. Did you kill him?
Damned if I know.
The video cameras will put you with him in the bank, and I'll bet there were enough witnesses.
At least one.
Plus they'll remember you going after his daughter at school.
You timed that beautifully.
They always pick Rachel up early on Thursday.
I got what I fucking deserved. I had it all. I could've kept going!
As they say  no good deed goes unpunished.
And all that crap about your driver being murdered by a cop 
I thought it was inspired.
There was <u>no</u> cop involved. Oh shit! Fuck!
Sit completely still with both hands on the wheel  until they get here.
Why pick me to be your "mark?"
Nobody's easier to con than a con man.
You knew about me.
Who's in back?
L.A.P.D.
Shit. You couldn't be in much worse shape.
Your friends are probably still on the line. Pick it up and say hello.
There's no way out for you. You have to deal with us.
Assure them that you're being well treated.
Tell them I'm keeping what's left. I earned it. I probably killed some poor bastard for it.
He seems to think he's entitled to it all.
Not all. They already have a third. The question is how much of that are they willing to give to get you back?
You won't shoot me. That's not your style.
We might hit a bump and the gun might go off. Ever see that Tarantino movie  where Travolta blew that guy away in the back seat  purely by accident?
Do you have to point that?
Absolutely. And Topanga Canyon has a hell of a lot of potholes if I recall.
He seems to be headed for Topanga.
I'm not trying to lose them. Nor am I exceeding any speed limits.
The one thing you don't want is to attract the police.
Granted, the cops are not an alternative. Certainly not with one of their own still locked in my trunk.
I don't hear him moving around anymore.
Those shots your associates got off may not have done him too much good. That's on their head. All I did I was put him there.
A typical fuckup.
What's that supposed to me?
I knew you were a loser the first night I laid eyes on you.
You, I would've noticed.
Oh no, you were too busy trying to keep some Croatian from slapping the shit out of his girlfriend. She showed her gratitude by almost taking your eye out with her spiked heel.
You were at the Emerald that night?
Naturally you didn't learn your lesson.
I guess I ought to stop seeing woman as victims.
I think it was my tone of voice more than anything else that sold you. And when you thought I was being kicked around, I wish I could've seen your face.
You're enjoying this too much.
Now you're starting to sound like a victim again.
You could've hit me.
Only in the leg or the thigh. You'd live but you just wouldn't wear shorts.
You wouldn't 
Yes I would. Not kill you. But blow off a few toes, absolutely. I'm entitled to that as retribution. It'll help you to remember me in years to come  every time you put on stockings. They must have prosthetic toes by now  with little nails on them you can polish 
Stop talking like that!
Then scream for me. A repeat performance. Let me see how easy you can turn it on. Scream! I want to hear you scream for me!
I'm still okay.
Inform him the fee is seventyfive large for your return. All parts intact.
He wants 75 back.
Plus names, addresses and I.D. for the lot of you. We're in this together and I need to know who my partners are. In case I ever need to roll over on somebody.
Did you hear that?
Let me talk to him. Hold the phone to my ear  but don't nudge me.
It could be a fire. This is Malibu.
No, there's a police car way back there. See it, in the distance coming around the turn? The van is blocking it now.
What's Nels' number?
2597881.
Dial him up. We need him to run interference.
Do you think they'll walk away?
Ask them.
They'll have units blocking us up ahead.
That's why we're turning off onto a fire road.
Some people fall apart in a pinch. But you shine.
What's happening?
I can't hear. Now there's a siren. They must be in an ambulance. What about the money? Nels?
Wonderful feeling of security knowing your adversaries are both crippled and unarmed.
The money, Nels ... ?
Any idea where you're going?
I was sentenced to a youth camp out here when I was fourteen. We cleared some of these same roads.
They did some great job of reforming you.
That's where this Chicano correctional officer first taught me to slap paint on a canvas. I could copy any fucking thing he put in front of me.
Think you could do a picture of me?
I had it in my mind what you'd look like. "Her," I could've painted. <u>You</u>, I'd be afraid to turn my back to mix the colors.
Developer ran out of money years back. I'd hate to think about what's living in there.
Why are we stopping?
I need a break. I've been on a marathon run ever since I had the misfortune to strike up a conversation with you.
Who'd ever think, to look at you?
As a child I hated being told how sweet I looked. That angelic little face wasn't me at all. I had to hurt people to prove to them they had the wrong image. Sometimes words were enough  but I wasn't beyond inflicting physical pain in order to be taken seriously. I enjoyed seeing the shock on their poor faces when they realized who I was. That same look you gave me when I turned the gun on you.
You've had a lot of fun with me today. What would you have done if I hadn't responded to your call?
We had a backup plan. But I knew you'd come through for me.
Yeah, I was waiting for that suggestion.
Sooner or later you'll learn to trust me.
How about "later?"
What's really on your wicked little mind?
The cop in the trunk  he could still be alive.
That's a reasonable possibility.
He might've heard everything we said in the car.
What's your point?
We can't leave him to repeat anything.
Which one of us is elected to do the deed?
You're the man with the gun.
Naturally.
Naturally.
Maybe your friends already accomplished that chore for us.
Only one way to find out.
I'm going to cuff you and leave you in that house. It may take awhile but you'll be found after we're long gone.
That's not good enough.
That's how it's going to be.
I'm handling it.
He let the fucking cop out  but he won't 
Both hands on your lap.
Nothing but CDs in there. I thought maybe you'd like some Celine or Whitney.
Just sitting here listening to her voice does it to me all over again. No harm admitting I fell in love with the sound of you.
That's a skill you acquire when you do fantasy phone sex for a living. I must've had thirty regulars salivating at 4.99 per minute.
Some nice fantasy you all cooked up for me.
Took preparation.
Exactly who was this Oberfeld?
Local lawyer for Dominican dealers. Off to buy a half interest in a mall in Granada Hills on their behalf.
Know what else is in here?
Take your hand out of there. Slowly.
Think about what's going to happen to your valuables when that trunk flies open at 75 miles per?
You won't live to see it.
It's going to be some fucking snowstorm.
Pull over! Pull over someplace.
Five ... six.
Toss them  one at a time. I don't want to lose count.
I picked the wrong number when I chose you ... didn't I?
Turns out you did me a favor. You're looking at a rich man.
 The phones, Theo. Don't leave any of them behind. The cops could pull up a record of all our calls and  find you.
I've got ... one last number for you, Theo ...
I don't want it.
My fence in San Francisco ... 3054410. Maurice. Don't take less than a third on the face value of those bonds.
Sure, like I'm gonna take advice from you.
I told you ... sooner or later you'd have to trust me ...
I thought you said you could handle him.
I'm doing fine. Theo wants to deal.
Nels, don't let that cop pass you.
What am I supposed to do?
Lose the hardware now.
We'll toss it when we make the blind curve.
Don't fuck around. Pop a cap in him.
Allow me.
He took it like a man. Toss him in that drainage ditch.
There's a taxi stand here. I can meet you.
Nels?
I'm still in my cab  jammed up in traffic. Are you there yet?
Any minute.
I was worried about you. Both of you.
We've had our share of fuckups but it's going to work out fine.
Give me 20 minutes at least.
You switched license plates?
It's taken care of.
We have never worked a gig together but I am a firm believer in preparation. So let's go over this again step by step.
Not this minute.
That was definitely out of line and totally unprovoked. I heard you were a hitter.
Bullshit.
That's your "rep."
Wait! I hear her breathing now. There, she just picked it up again.
What do you mean tip the cops? Is the man a lunatic or what?
Will you relax? This in no way affects our business. Go on.
Just hand up on the bitch! Fuck you, madam. And goodbye!
That's what I deserve for listening in the first place.
I don't like anybody laying their hands on me.
Just like they say; no fucking self control.
If you know that just back off.
Shit. There's the hotel. You overshot the driveway.
And stop with the directions.
Make a "U" and go back.
That's illegal. You want us pulled over? I'll turn around at the corner if you'll shut the fuck up.
<u>You're</u> doing all the talk.
We still gotta run the drill before we walk in that lobby.
Go ahead then. I'm covering the receiver. She can't hear.
First off, this Mr. Chow Yen doesn't speak a lot of English. The girl with him will interpret. There will be a third person to accompany you into the men's room where you can take count. I hope you know Krugerands better than they know a <u>Hockney</u>.
I improved on the fucking original.
Let's hope so. Once you come out and okay everything I'll give Caitlin the sign that she can bring the painting on over.
It's rolled up in the tube on the floor back there.
Got your badge?
Satisfied, Wiseass?
In any event, whatever occurs you do not belt anybody.
What do you keep making me out to be?
Okay, okay, Lenore, calm down. Either let me call the school or better yet, the F.B.I.
Sure  and they record your voice. And later on we all get slammed for kidnap and murder. That's out!
He's seen both of us now.
Look, I've got a wife. I don't care if either of you ever get caught.
What else did you expect him to say? Do it, Theo  or give me the gun.
It took you long enough to get my ass out.
With all those holes Nels pumped in I knew you wouldn't suffocate.
You can tell she was really worried about me.
I prefer to have the sucker die at a more convenient location. Once Nels arrives with his backpack full of goodies.
So Theo and Nels will appear to have whacked each other out and we never existed. A thing of beauty. Jesus, the shit you come up with!
Now turn around. I'm going to cuff you.
Put those away. We can't have marks on his wrists.
You never miss a trick.
I'll see that he stays calm. Pack the money up and put it in the trunk.
Now that'd be a misdemeanor.
I got to get going. An agent is showing me a house up on Broad Beach in ten minutes.
They'll wait. Meantime, raise the lid.
What'd you do? Tail me from Brentwood?
Why would I do that?
Let's have your license, mister.
I'm going to level with you officer.
What's this?
See for yourself, federal agent, U.S. Treasury. On the job.
Lady, don't let him do it!
You got it wrong. I'm the one that's on your side.
You almost brain me and lock me in a fucking trunk and you're on my side? You stupid fuck!
Nels reporting in. Sit down where you are. Arms folded.
Yes sir.
In case you crapped out it was my job to go after that briefcase.
Or relieve me of it later.
Only I was sloppy. I let you take me out. That was quite a humiliation.
You missed.
Any time you decide to let me in on it.
How do we get back to the freeway?
Bear right till the fire road ends. It's not far.
Yeah, I suppose getting whacked has got to be one of your best ways to die. Particularly if you're not expecting it. You don't know what hit you.
Can you make him stop!
Mind letting me make the best of a rotten situation?
Which is why we had a lot more to worry about than the law. These are people who don't worry about reading you your rights.
I'm the one they'd be looking for.
I told you I should've cuffed him.
I want the gun emptied. I want to see all six slugs tossed up here. And then I want out. That's all. <u>OUT</u>!
Are you guys all right?
You could've killed us.
It was the fugitive in the Chrysler that caused this. We were trying to overtake him.
No reason to kill innocent bystanders. Shit. I can't hardly move my neck.
We've already got an ambulance on the way. Don't try to get out.
I'm not staying in here with him puking all over the place. Get this door open!
Who's on the phone?
I'll explain later. I'm sort of on hold.
What was that for?
You could've made me lose my call.
So what? What could be important enough to put your hands on me?
I didn't hurt you.
You couldn't hurt me. But it's the principle.
Say something ...
Me, he won't stay on the phone with for five fucking minutes without bitching.
I'm trying to help somebody. Okay?
He's at it again. Like that night at the Emerald. This piece of Eurotrash is slapping shit out of his little wife in a back booth  so Mr. Good Deed here has got to step in and pound the fucker's head into the wall. Meantime "Wifey" recovers enough to pull off her high heel and nearly take our hero's eye out. It took six stitches.
How was I in the wrong?
I know where it is. Give me that phone back.
I'm not finished. Under other circumstances I'd gladly go out of my way. I don't understand why you just don't phone some other person.
She can't! It's busted. Now hand that on back!
Theo wants to talk again.
Did you have to tell her my name?
Will you two cut it out?
This Mercedes of yours, what's it look like?
He's right, Theo. She might not be around to back up your story. You could end up in the middle of this.
Look  I've got the lives of maybe three innocent people hanging on the end of this line.
I know you feel awful but it's not your responsibility.
Then whose is it?
You gotta just look the other way.
I'm sorry. You'll do all right without me. Keep my share.
Be careful. There were people in that crosswalk.
That's all we need. Better let me drive.
Have you got to tell her your life story?
This is my conversation. I'll say what I fucking please.
Wake up. Make a right at Ocean Avenue. The hotel's a few blocks up on the left.
What if they do question the authenticity?
Oh. Seems yours girlfriend is casting doubts on your expertise.
I am not! Fuck you! Theo's a genius.
Any trouble, we whip out our Treasury Department badges  show them the wire I'm wearing and read them their rights. Theo seizes the Krugerands as evidence. Naturally they start negotiating. Offer to give us up somebody else. And we listen. Take notes on who bought what stolen art and tell them we have to clear it with our superiors at Justice. We pick up their passports  escort them to their room and leave them all in the bathroom handcuffed to the plumbing.
Was someone in an accident?
Do I hear a woman's voice?
I'm sorry for whatever's happened to you but we're definitely not the right people to do you any good.
Don't you have children?
Matter of fact I did have a kid once. But he's a lot better off with his father in Milwaukee.
What are you doing on Theo's line?
Taking messages.
He ran out on me to be with you? Well fuck him! Everything worked twice as good without him. We didn't need him then and I don't need him now.
I'm sure he'll be heartbroken.
I know he's there! He doesn't even have the balls to pick up the phone!
I won't let him. He belongs to me now. Bye, sweetie.
Hey Buddy! Can you let me pull over? Give me some space to pull over.
Where do you think you're going?
Any place.
This is one way.
I know. But it's an emergency. Somebody dying. Okay?
I don't see anybody in there but you.
I would appreciate a little space. Thank you.
What's a powerful man like you standing all alone for? Dance with me?
I'm sorry, Miss, one of us needs to keep surveillance...
Oh pooh, come now. If you turn me down, I just might throw a fit..you know how us girls can be..
What's it like being a superhero? It must be frightfully exciting..How did you guys all get together?
We met on the Internet. The Captain put out a cryptic message calling for a new order of crimefighters. We don't even know each other's true identities...
You seem sad, Spooky.
I'm not sad, no, I owe the Captain my life. It's just you think you want to help prevent crime, but you realize that's too complicated. It's a lot more fun to punish crime. Then after a while, you don't care what's a crime and what's not, what you became a Warrior for. You just want the kicks. The rush.
The kicks..the rush..you mean, like pulling heists..faking your own deaths..killing innocent bystanders...like Mexican angels. I know you're a woman. Do you?
You're the One. I thought I told you to stay hidden behind the couch, CAT! You've torn the unit apart. You've driven a great leader insane...
You going to talk all day?
Nice breasts.
Thanks.
You're late.
Yes, Mother. Dear.
A hearty breakfast is the start of a great morning...
Oh, I forgot to tell you, you're on a diet...The fact you're still reasonably pretty is the one thing you got going for you.
Oh Mommy, you're embarrassing me.
Is every single thing out of your mouth since your "accident" have to be a monotone mumble of cheap sarcasm?
Maybe.
It's funny, I've heard of giving up finding a man and raising a family to pursue a career. And I've heard of foregoing a career to start a family but I think you're onto something new, Selina. "Absolutely nothing" Has a ring to it. I think it could catch on...How's that for sarcasm?
Pretty good...Mom, I don't want you to think I don't appreciate...letting me stay, getting me the jobI've been a mess. I'm still a mess. It's just...we have to start having a different conversation. I can't take..
I'll take your abuse, but it's way too early for the sanctimonious Cult of Gag...
Oh, so now even the keepers of the city don't meet your standards...You're late.
Don't sneak up on me...
Uh, it's justthat woman out there that horrible Hag. She's the one who keeps following me on her creepy little scooterAnd now she's built a hut in the back..Why did you...
Because she asked meand I couldn't very well turn her down. Don't you remember of course you don't rememberthat "Hag" is the one who brought you to that hospital in Gotham City. For what it's worth currently not muchwe owe her your life...When I think about a single woman in Gotham Cityamnesia is probably the best thing that could happen to a girl like you...Oh, don't forget your visor.
Where were you last night? I didn't hear you come in.
It's because I didn't come in. I live in the Hut, now. I meant to tell you..See ya.
Mom? Oh Mom, I messed up...
What kind of name is "Brock Leviathan?"
I never thanked you..the arrow..the motorcycle..the computer disc..You're so different from what I..and so the same.
Yes, I'm pretty amazing. You should see this...It came this evening.
They're going to attack Frank's Fun Palace!
I hate it when you let your hair just hang like that...you have such pretty eyes...
Mom, not now! I, I don't know what to do..
Yes, you do. You have to go rescue all those people...
But I'm not a hero. I'm nobody's heroine..I'm nothing. You've said so yourself many times.
Do you always listen to what your mother says? Selina. Something you choose your life. Sometimes your life chooses you. Save the day..
I don't know if I can do it alone.
Trust me, you won't have to.
I'm sorry, ma'am, there are no pets allowed in the library...
But I'm blind.
It's seeingeye dogs, ma'am. If I let the cat stay, will you go out with me?
What if I say I'll go out with you, so you can have all these great daydreams, but then never actually talk to you again?
Okay, deal.
"I'll go out with you." Now go get me these old newspapers...
A genuine woman of mystery in Oasisburg. Amnesia. Bulletholes in exposed stomach badly concealed with body makeup. Beautiful, intelligent eyes that have no business in "Frank's Fun Palace" or anybody else's Fun Palace for that matter..
Uh. "Thanks?"
I don't know what came over me.
What is it with women and Catwoman? Men have the courtesy to punish the weak, but women love punishing the strong. Don't get me wrongthis Catwoman is a terrifying, subversive menace to everything this community stands for and she must be stopped. It's just, I like her a lot.
Yeah, she's okay.
Most articles focus on the first half of her namedescribing some feline monster. I want the woman of Catwoman. After all, if it was a man dressed as a cat, the story would be on page 23just another loony. Oh, I want this one. I want her bad..
Sorry, I get carried away. Once I become interested in someone, I can't stop trying to figure them out...Amnesia victims are challenging..
I actually got some memory back last night.
How much?
Enough.
Oh now this one is mine...
Oh the handmy grandfather is inventing a new kind of blender and..You know, I realize I've never officially introduced myself...I'm Lewis Lane.
But of course you are.
I was wondering, if you're not doing anything tonight...
I am. Dinner with Brock Leviathan...
Ah! Ah!God no, don't tell me you're one of those women who are attracted to ruggedly handsome and brilliant architects..
Good morning.
Ah! You scared me! How did you know to come here! Have you been spying..
No, of course not. You're listed. Not the hut, exactly, but the rest of..
Well. I'd let you come in, but the place is a mess...
Next time, call...
I thought you'd like a ride to work. You don't own a cat, do you?
Hey, Captain God!
What did?
You turned around!
Yes, you shouted the words "Captain God" at me for no reason...
Oh, do you turn around every time somebody just shouts at you?
Actually, yes.
Did you try to kill...
What?
Nothing. How's your hand?
About the same. Thanks for asking...Damn blender. Okay, I can't stand it anymore, I'm dying to knowDid you try on some whiskers last night and hit a 711 along with all those other women? You had to have thought about ita Catwoman for a night?
Like you don't know...
I'm having a hard time picking up your signal this morningWhat did you say?
I said I saw you last night. What were you doing hiding in that alley, running off when the superhero alarm sounded...
I was doing my job. At the risk of sounding egotistical, I didn't become the best reporter in the world sitting by the phone. I was chasing tail all nightI was not spying, intentionally, on your hot and heavy date with "Brock Leviathan, architect." I can't believe he ordered white wine. You do know white wine is not real wine...
Hey, I thought...
I'm afraid last night was the last straw of our city's tourists. The Mayor, in his finite wisdom, is throwing a "Month of the Woman" luncheon ball for the public this afternoon to try and calm everyone down. I thought maybe you and I could...
Go together? Sure, why not? Another date with someone who could be an insane messenger of death for all I know. No offense. Hey, lean over, let me smell your breath..Say in a deep voice, "A superhero's job is to protect..."
You're scaring me, Selina. Do it some more.
I give up. I give up.I can't figure you out. Not gonna try.
You can't figure me out. You're the strange one..
You are...
Uhhuh..
Hey, architectshe's joking. Right, Selina? Selina?
I'm not through. This will come as a shock. Again, to one of you. I am Catwoman. The Catwoman.
Some reporter I am..all this time my story is right there in front..I have a lot of questions.
Fine, fine, at a later date, I'll be more than happy to talk about my perverse psychological complexities with the one who's not the creep. But for now, I'm drilling inside your brains...I bring up the whole Catwoman thing for one reason. I bit Captain God in the hand and the next day you both show up equipped with big bandaids and wobbly excuses "My grandfather is inventing a new kind of blender.."
Lose the smile, Mr. Good Reflexes. We were having a pretty okay time the other nightgood food, good conversationsome Catwomen show up and it's "You need cab fare?; I got to go to my HideoutOh, I'm sorry, I mean "warehouse."
Not too cool...
Then there's you, Louis, sneaking through back alleys and surprise visiting me at my home..Both of you have been way too frisky from the get go. I'm actually a pretty amazing personfunny, smart, attractive when I get my sleepbut you two had no way of knowing that when I met you both I was basically a morose, depressed amnesiac incapable of any human feeling. The only reason one of you wanted to go out with me is because you knew I was Catwoman.
You know, now that I hear myself tell it, I'm thinking maybe both of you are messing with me. What, you get the Helmet Monday through Thursday, then Brock takes it for the weekend...
Okay. Let's get serious. Of course I know the Cult of Good is not good. Ever since I saw what they did in Atlanta, it has been my mission to expose them. I've followed them to Oasisburg and soon will have enough hard evidence to bring them to real justice. That computer disc could be the final piece to the puzzle. This isn't just a story, Selinaanother damn Pulitzerthis is my life.
Have you seen the Oasisburg Police? They drive golf carts with little red sirens.
We have to do something. What can we do to help, Selina?
I'll let you know.
You're late. I've got some good news and some good news. I'm giving you more hours and the new uniforms came in.
What's the good news?
You know, Kyle, you're still pretty hot for a preBicentennial babe...
"Prebicentennial babe?"
Yeah, as in born before..Ooh, I suppose it's "sexual harassment" to give a woman a compliment. Sheesh. Come on, gentleman...
There you are, Selina. I've been thinking..I have some.."positions" opening up..
Stop.
Oh, what? I offer you a job in implied exchange for physical favors and suddenly it's "sexual harassment..."
Can I be frank, Frank? Your entire existence is sexual harassment. I accept there's not much you can do about it.
Hey, you're antimale.
Oh Frank, I'm not antimale, I'm anti you. Believe me, there's a difference. Kelly is designing new uniforms for next week. Pay her and thank her. And is it a rule that the hottest places on the planet have the coldest air conditioning. There's something out there called 73 degrees, look into it.
What if I were to say "You're Fired?"
What if I were to say "Your Wife" as in does she know of your touching mentorstudent relationship with the postBicentennial babe working the roulette wheel?
Kelly, get to work on those new uniforms. I'm not running a summer camp here..
You Housewives have no idea what we go through!
You Career girls have no idea what we go through.
Did you just say "girls?"
I'm a good mother!
You mean, "Consuela" is a good mother..
How did you know our nanny's name is...Lucky guess!
What's the name of your child's best friend?
Ask me another one
Spooky.
Spear.
Hello, Spooky.
I don't want to hurt you, Catwoman. Yet. After tomorrow, you can do anything you want, but please, just stay out of sight for the next 24 hours. I won't stand by and watch my leader get all emotional over an animal like you. I warn you, don't tempt Captain God when he is angry. Let is complete our mission in peace.
Whatever you say...Sis.
Can't you understandI got tired of being a woman. I wanted the respect that only a cape, boots, chestplate, and a mechanical spear can bring..
You're not strong. You're scared..scared that someone like me will see right through you. Whatever the Cult of Good was, it's not anymore... You don't have to listen to me, just listen to you..
I heard what you said, Spooky. I can't believe he shot you...
Men, huh?
For when the time comes..
For when the..Uh, yeah, thanks, a little gold piece of...gold. Uh...
And I...I..want you to know our secrets..
Oh no, not a computer disc. A computer disc? Oh man, come on, what do I look like? I'm not a crime fighter, I'm not a detective, what, I'm supposed to find some "clues" on this disc. I can't...
The Mission is happening tonight..It's up to you to...to save the City...
"Save the City?" I don't want to save the city, I want to move! Listen, I'm sure the computer disc is pretty fascinating and I can't thank you enough for the little weird gold thingie, but..
You know, my name's not Spooky. It's, it's Rachel.
Hello, Rachel. I'm Selina.
You're not a superhero. You're not even a hero. You're a scary, sick, fake who made a big mistake. You killed someone very special to me..
And...your point?
Hasn't anyone ever taught you that fighting violence with violence solves nothing.
It's a lot more fun than fighting violence with pamphlets. That voicebox of yours is a hoot. Say "I'm wearing no underwear"it'll be funny.. You do know you're evil, don't you?
A superhero's job is to protect society. Don't blame me if society is a horrible, corrupt joke.
"A superhero's job is to protect.." Sorry, I can't take you seriously...I overheard you say that tomorrow the Cult of Good will be deadI should be so luckywhat did that mean?
My, those little ears pick up a lot. The Cult of Good will die heroically preventing a worldclass heist. Since we will be the ones performing the heist, our deaths will obviously be fake. But have no fear. There will be many other deaths tomorrow...and those will be quite real. I'm afraid these questions of yours put you in a position not unlike a longtailed tabby in room full of rocking chairs.
Oh please, sir, one more. Are you the reporter or the architect?
Yes. I am the reporter or the architect. You've been through so much..It looks like you've used up all nine of your lives...
I still have one left...
You think so?...Selina?
You've seen me...
How can you say things with such feeling and then turn around and put on a helmet and...Who are you? Were you sitting on my right or my left at the card table? Tell me! Please tell me who you are; you own me that!
I know, I should probably tell you, but I just don't feel like it. To be honest, I'm really angry at you. I admired you so much more when you were purely wicked. I mean, look at you now, running around trying to "get to the bottom" of things. Trying to "save the city." It's true we're about to do a very nasty deed, but really, what's it to you? Since when do you care what happens to a bunch of pathetic Oasiburgians? You're just not yourself, anymore.
I'm supposed to be taking personality tips from you three? You people were once heroes. You had ideals. You fought for things. Spooky told me so...
Do you have any idea how much superheroes get paid? Zilcho. Urban vigilantes with secret identities operating outside the law. Not exactly the stuff of a W2 form. If it wasn't for merchandising and corruption and these diabolical "missions"...There is no such thing as heroes and villains, anymore, Selina. There are only winners and losers. You lost. We won.
Ah, the good guys always triumph in the end. It's what allows our children to sleep at night.
You can't get away with..
Oh, I wish they wouldn't feed him like that.
Now he'll be up all night...
Well, we spent enough time building the damn thing, might as well use it.
A bit sadistic, don't you think, Captain...?
Well, you don't see that everyday. Somebody tell me what's the deal with Frida Kahlo here?
Just a homeless woman. Wrong place.
You like them, don't you, Boss.
Oh, I like her. I like her a lot. I want to save this one for later. Something that tasty you don't eat all at once. Go back to your alter egos, we'll regroup in the morning.
The Tranquilizer Tranquility will hold for about an hour..where is she? These women are out here on a lark Ladies Night at a discotheque. It's not in their blood the way it is for Catwoman...Where is she?
I hate it when you get like this. This Catwoman is becoming an obsession. I say we call it a night. Tomorrow is a big day for us...
What's the matter with you, Spooky, my most trusted comrade? We are warriors! These are the challenges we live for!
I want out of tonight's mission. I can't do it anymore, Captain. I can't let innocent people die to prove our superiority..I can't.
Just like a woman. You want out. You're out.
Why are youI fought for you with honor. Why should it matter if I'm a man or a woman, as long as I'm a good warrior.
Of course it matters! It throws off everything! "Superhero" is manhood's highest achievement. Manhood! Your dirty little secret has diseased us to the core. You were my buddy, my comrade women aren't buddies, women aren't warriors! You tried to turn the Cult of Good into some afterwork softball team! It's time to get thrown from the treehouse...
I loved you.
I know.
What a "drag."
"Well done," Cactus.
Cactusshooting a man in the back is not very noble.
That is not a man, Captain God. That is Vomit accidentally born with two legs.
Well. I stand corrected.
Bossman, what were you going on about last night: "I am the Law and I am the Danish..."
I don't know what I was saying. I totally phoned it in last night. I haven't been getting a lot of sleep lately...
Right time. That was kind of fun. She had spunk.
Why am I still troubled...
I don't know, Boss, you saw what the big guy did to the last kitty we gave him.
How could I forget. Mammothgo pet the kitty.
Goddamn..
What did you say?
Sorry man, I didn't mean that personally...
I know how you feel, humiliated in the hands of a woman. I'd rather eat my soul on a paper plate...
Ah, did you hear that? Spooky loved you...
Yeah...pretty gross. Hurry, we've got work to do.
Quite a little performance you gave in the casino todayfor me and that other guy. Come on down, let's chat..
I got her...
Car wash, Captain?
Absolutely.
My, the Perpetrator seems to be a bit on the "Wild" side..
I'll put that in the reportafter you shoot her.
The shopkeeper on 13th street won't drop the lawsuitHe still claims one of the lasers we fired at the Jenkins gang burned down his store..
I hate innocent bystanders. Whine, whine, whine. Will he settle?
"Dat's gotta hurt!"
He didn't remember to roll up his window...
What's the catch?
Ooh, I've read about this philly. She's the one who gave that wimp Batman all those migraines up in Gotham...
Not now, Mammoth. Adonis is right. We've had a good run herethe protection kickbacks from the crime syndicates, the merchandising scams Tomorrow night we have a big, violent, complicated and lucrative mission to pull off. We chould be resting up.
Resting Up? Sorry Spooky, I've got to go with God on this one. I hate to think we're just in this for the money. Garfield's girlfriend crossed a line last night and she's got to get spayed. We're going out of Oasisburg on a win.
Yeah, this is better than rape.
Cactus, sometimes you don't deserve to wear our logo.
Touchy. Look everybody, it's Casper, the friendly crimefighter...
I thought cats were supposed to have nine lives, not thirty one! What do you think you're doing?
Winning.
What do you want from me?
At this point, a nap. Oh by the way, I killed your butler and your dog..
My dog!
Oh Honey, it's so much better when we do it without the helmet.
I've been thinking. I've been thinking about us. I'm sorry I've been so hard no you these past couple days. I realize now it's because you're the only woman who ever understood me and I couldn't handle it! I've never revealed myself to anyone the way I have to you. Let's blow this town together. We'll run a bedandbreakfast in Vermont by day, and by night, we'll dress up and kill anything that...
Pass!
You were right all alongthe two parts to a person are the reality and the lie. I was making good money as a top architectbut that's not who I am. I'm not an architect, I'm a..
I know, I know, a Warrior. You're very annoying..Now tell me how to defuse the bomb you've set..
Will you please stop fighting? Just let those people die so we can get on with our new lives together! Trust me, one day we'll look back on this day and laugh. You got to admit, it's a lot more fun to be the villain.
You might be right, but Fun is overrated. I need something real.
Well then, let's agree to disagree...Now how about a picture for my scrapbook?
Don't you realize there's nothing you can do, anyway! Nine minutes and it's all over! The Fun Palace is a tomb. No one can get out. And choke on this furball: all doors and windows are blocked, locked, and electrified! Even the glass around the bomb is rigged.
Even the skylight?
The "skylight?" Fool! It's too high for anybody to climb out the damn skylight...
What about "climbing in?"
You've lost all motor functions. The poison will kill you in ten minutes.
Hey, speaking of Wrong Place, Wrong Time. Lewis Lane to the rescue!
Priceless...We have a showdown in this alley, right?
Don't you feel so much better now that you know everything? Blink once for yes, twice for..
Boss, we better roll if we're going to hit this place, blow it up, and make that flight..
Just hold on! I'm not done. There are two kinds of men in the world, Selina. In Category A, you have Me. In Category B is everyone who wants to be in Category A, but are too afraid, too weak..!
God, can you hear me!
Whaat?
Catwomen. Lots of them!
Oh come on, Cactus, be a man! The blimp is still on schedule, right?
There you are darling...Have we met, Lewis Lane, Oasisburg Times.
Oh, how long have you had your own route?
Can I just say what a classy touch the neon urinals are, Mr. Architect? I just love risking electrocution every time I..
Women, huh?
They do take their time. So..Selina Kyle...
Selina Kyle...lovely person.
She has a real spirit.
A bit on the suspicious side, don't you think?
She has reason to be suspicious..Doesn't she?
I suppose she does.
I better go report this in...
Oh, you don't have to explain to me where you're going...
Selina, are you okay?
Yes, did you call us here for any particular reason?
You're kidding.
But it's true! You can call him yourself.
You're right, I wasn't looking to fall in love with a casino worker. I'd given up trying to find anyone. But there was a fire in your eyes that cut right through the air conditioning and through the coldness of my heart.
Your uniform, that first time I saw you, was a ghastly cage I vowed to unlock in order to..
We're waiting.
Quiet, Blender Boy. I told you from the beginning, Selina, I'm not a very good liar. I am not Captain God, or whatever else he may be calling himself this month, but when I find out who isThe Man will pay. My sister died in that Museum attack. You can check the Atlanta obituaries. I've tracked these monsters from city to city, waiting for a time to exact my revenge. Why else would I come to Oasisburg and create the most obnoxious casino in the world?
Did you ever think that maybe neither of us is Captain God?
I can. That's not an admission of guilt, It's just..I knew you had it in you...
It may be time to get the police involved...
I've been looking for you.
I've been looking for you. Selina Kyle was right. One of us is a psychotic crusader.
But then we knew that all along, didn't we...
I guess we did. When you were a little boy, did you want to be a superhero?
What little boy doesn't?
He likes you. Kincaid and I have always had similar tastes...
In women?
No, in art. I try not bring up women around Kincaid. It's a sore spot between us. Long story..
I'll bet. Funny, for some reason, I don't think dogs are supposed to like me.
You say that like an amnesia victim.
Guilty. I am.
Ouch. I hope you're not offended by aggressively curious men.
I don't know. I can't remember.
Strangeyou seemed so close. I wonder what's happened since yesterday..
I wonder..
What's the matter...
Nothing, just a jolt of dejavu. I think I went out with a guy with a dignified British butlercan't remember how it turned out..
I'll bet the butler's name wasn't "Jeff."
You're probably right.
I was wondering, if you're not doing anything tonight...Would you like to go to dinner? I know; a tame suggestion considering the wide variety of miniature golf possibilities available to the Oasisburg citizenbut nevertheless, would you?
How heroic of you...
Kincaid got a little frisky last night...So, meet here at eight and go from there? By the way, I'm Brock Leviathan.
But of course you are. Dinner at Eight. Wouldn't miss it.
There's a nice cafe down the street...unless you're afraid of this Catwoman prowling around. We can always dine at the mansion, if..
I'm not afraid. Are you?
You designed Gotham Plaza? The big silver guys pulling on those big silver things...
What did you think?
Oh, it's superbI mean if you like that fascist nightmare kind of thing...
Hey, hey, the client comes first. You think I want my future children to know their Daddy created Frank's Fun Palace?
I checked out your stuff at the library. Awesome work, really. Why would someone like you want to go out with a...with a..what exactly am I, again?
You're very special. Selina, I'm not a very good liar. I feel very strongly about you...forgive me use of architecture metaphors, but I instantly know a good foundation when I see one..
I despise these kind of winds. Sorry, I guess I'm a little on edge. Seems this Catwoman has everyone, men and women, on edge. Don't you feel Catwoman says something about the duality of all men and women...
Stop. We are not having a "duality" conversation. "Ooh, he has a secret side. Ooh, she has a dark side." Please. Duality is a joke. You get one, do you understand me? You get one life. One shot. I'm so tired of women saying "I have an inner strength" or "Deep down, I'm really ambitious." "One day I'll design my own line of clothing and write children's stories, if I can only remember to return the videos I rented last night." If you are something, then you better be out there doing something. You need to be the same bold thing in the day that you are at nightwith maybe a slight clothing change. There is no gray area. The truth is not somewhere in between. There are two sides to every personality, all rightthe reality...and the lie. We are not having a "duality" conversation.
So, did you see "Seinfeld" last week? That Kramerguy really makes me laugh.
I'm sorry I went off like that, I get passionate. II guess I'm a passionate person. One of those things I had forgotten. When you were a little boy did you want to grow up to be a superhero?
What little boy doesn't... My God...it's, it's...Catwoman.
No it's not.
A whip? Now that's going too far! Some of these women have no shame!
What's the matter? What are you saying?
Well, it's just that I would think that the woman who is the real, non imitation Catwoman would be pretty angry at some little amateur minx stealing the whole whip idea. Really angry.
This is insane. Let the heroes handle it. I'd better get you home...I should check on my warehouse to make sure it hasn't been hit...
Your warehouse? Go on aheadto your "warehouse." I'll be okay...
Are you sure?
I'm sure.
Selina, did you make it home, all right? I tried calling, but your mother said that there was "no extension in the Hut." Whatever that means..
I got home fine. How's the "warehouse."
Fine. You're angry. Don't be. The important thing is we're together now..
At some sanctimonious celebration of condescension. Nothing like appeasing half the population with a two hour luncheon.
Exactly. I don't know what I'd do without you.
Uh Brock, today you are without me...
Tonight, somewhere in the city, innocent people will diebut then one of you knows that; for one of you is a vicious pirateterrorist posing as the beloved superhero Captain God.
What did you say? Selina, sit down, the entire city is going crazy...You have to just calm down...
Hmm. Not bad.
You're telling the truth. I can tell..How did this..
Noo. You know, questions like that don't help your cause
I still can't get over it. I still can't believe you're Catwoman..
Quite a pair we make. Thank you, Jeff.
A couple that battles the forces of evil together is a couple that stays together. Thank you, Jeff.
Oh now, you put up a good fight. Let's change the subject. Where do people who live in Oasisburg go to get away from it all?
Somewhere very far away, very quiet, and very... This is all wonderful, Selina, but...But I'm afraid I can not rest until all my sister's killers are brought to justice...That onearmed monster..
This ring belonged to my sister. I'd love for you to...
It would be honor, Brock. Now let's go get this guy...
You're serious? You'd help me...
In many ways, that obnoxious creep Cactus was the worst one of all. He got off on giving out pain...
We'll hunt him down together...
I thought you said you weren't a very good liar.
I lied.
Cactus, I can't believe you just said all that...
Oopsmy face must match my cape. And to think we were going to let you go...
I thought we were going to take it easy until the Mission...
This looks promising...
Ah, Cats. Now and Forever.
Be verwy, verwy, quiet; I'm hunting Catwomen.
ADONIS +++$+++
That's a good one, dude. He says we're going to kill you whether you tell us where the disc is or not.
You know, nobody likes you...
Yeah, all those women who went feline this afternoon...They're so ashamed now..
Hey, Hot Stuff. You're still on the clock...
Sorry, sir. The Cult is my life and my life is the Cult. By God, Captain God, I shall not fail you..
The crowd bought it.
Crowd always buys it. What do we got?
Do I have to remind everyone that in two days, we'll all be dead. The Cult of Good will be a memory. I don't want to hear about lawsuits or cereals. We have a secret mission...
I still have to call my agentmy technosingle just made the hot 100...what's with the phone?
You have to dial nine first.
Oh Man, not the sewer, I just had this cape cleaned...
It's okay. Let her go.
Have we reached the epicenter?
Ayy! Some cat's blocking the periscope. Somebody, give it a swat...
Works for me.
I don't know about you, guys, but I'm getting a little buzz off this.
I'm not going to worry about it. We are quite beyond the computer disc. Everything will be over within the next hour or so.
Yew'll be ovah in the naxt tehn minutes...
Adonis, be polite. She's a friend.
Hiya. That's a lot of money to be counting out in public.
Yeah.
Why don't I take him over to the office and verify it, huh?
Hi.
Having a good time?
Yes, uh...
You'll want to count the money in privacy. You know, you don't need...
Uh, I have a plane to catch to Cleveland... Can I get my winnings?
Hey! Oh!
Oh, sorry 
What's the matter with you?
Receipts and bills and... everything's here.
Since when do you talk like that?
I'm sorry.
There's a lot of people here.
Nance gives me trouble and I'll tell him... screw around with those suitcases and I'll take the eyes out of his frickin' head.
Again!
I didn't curse. I said 'frickin' head'.
That's enough.
I'm sorry.
I've never trusted him. And you know I got eyes...
...behind my head. They trust that scumbag, I don't. Right now, the way I feel, I'll hit the two of them in the head with a fuckin' shovel.
All right, take it easy now, take it easy.
Mom, I'm sorry, they're beatin' me left and right. Ma, I'm sorry. I'm all upset.
I know, but that's enough.
You know  You know  You know what they're doin' to me?
I know it, I know it.
I can't take this no more. Back and forth, back and forth.
Take it easy, though.
All right, all right. But I  I 
You'll get a heart attack like that.
You know, I  I'm too upset right now. And  An end has to be put to this.
...everything's comin' out of my pocket. I gotta pay for all these trips back and forth, back and forth.
You are right. What can I...
...done right, you gotta do it yourself.
Then do it the way you want.
Pardon me, counselor. Before you continue...
No, I want to have this marked, Mr. 
...this, uh, this Commission is prepared to act on a motion denying the Rothstein application.
Denying?
Do I hear a motion seconded?
Mr. Chairman 
Tony.
Hey.
How you doin'?
How you doin'?
All right, yeah. You got that thing for me?
What thing? Oh, Nicky... I thought you was layin'.
I was layin'? No, no, I'm taking it. I was takin' it.
You sure?
I'm positive.
Well, I'm a little confused here.
You're a little confused?
Yeah.
Maybe if I stick your fuckin' face through this window over here like, you know, you'll  you'll get unconfused. Give me the fuckin' money!
I'm sorry, Nicky. I didn't mean anything by it.
Yeah, I know, that's why you had it ready. You thought I was fuckin' layin' it?!
My fuckin' head.
Your fuckin' head, huh? Don't fuck around, Tony.
Listen to me, Anthony. I got your head in a fuckin' vise. I'm gonna squash your fuckin' head like a grapefruit if you don't give me a name. Don't make me have to do this, please. Come on. Don't make me be a bad guy. Come on.
Fuck you!
This motherfucker, do you believe this? Two fuckin' days and nights! Fuck me?
Oh, God! Give me the fuckin' name!
ChCharlie M!
Charlie M?
Charlie M.
Charlie M? You make me pop your fuckin' eye out of your head to protect that piece of shit? Charlie M? You dumb motherfucker!
Kill me, you fuck, kill me.
Kill you, You motherfucker you! Frankie, do him a fuckin' favor.
Well, how come I laid nine?
'Cause you're a jagoff. I would have fuckin' made you lay ten...
Whoa, whoa, whoa.
Hold it, hold it. Here.
Ace saw Vegas one way.
You call this guy and tell him I'm comin'?
Of course.
Smarten up.
You jagoff.
...you big fuckin' hick, you. Come here. Come here. Get him up. Come here.
Get up.
Come here, come here.
Get up.
You go over there right now and you apologize. You better hope he lets you back in.
Sometimes I used to go along on a heist just for the fun of it. But I didn't like the people I was rippin' off lookin' at me, so I used to turn their fuckin' pictures around.
What's takin' so long over there?
This peter's a motherfucker.
Whenever we got local merch, we'd usually send it to Palm Spring or Arizona... LA. I had a couple of sand niggers out there. You know, Arabs.
What, are you gonna have a fuckin' meeting here, or are you gonna buy some diamonds?
I actually turned my bedroom into a bank vault where I kept the choice stuff.
She asleep?
Every night, on the couch.
Give all the guys in your crew a piece of that?
I took care of everybody.
Yeah?
You walk past me?
Hey. This is Shelly.
Hey, Shelly.
And this is Stacy.
Stacy.
This is Nick.
Pleasure.
...Remo and the guys used to hang out and count their millions.
Remo.
I mean, the cops knew, but they didn't give a fuck. I mean, you know, they all worked it out together.
Nicky sends his warmest regards.
Fine. Everything's goin' good.
...to a tee. Like the time Tony Dogs...
Yeah, thanks a lot.
But he never talked.
...bosses. I mean, they're smokin' their Di Nobilis and they're eatin' a trippa [ItalianAmerican slang for 'tripe'.] and fuckin' suffritt', you know, fried pigs guts? While, if I wanna talk private, I gotta go to a fuckin' bus stop.
But, hey, what do they care, as long as I keep sendin' money back.
Yeah, but they're complaining.
Let 'em complain. I'm the one who's here.
I do all the work. Somebody don't like it, fuck him.
It's up to you.
They want a fuckin' war, I'm ready.
Mm.
Fuckin' Jews stick together, don't they?
They're havin' a good time too.
So are we.
He's here.
You should pay as fast as you collect, you know.
Sue me, you Jew fuck!
Let's get out of here.
What? Get out of here? I got a marker comin'.
You must have drunk too much.
Go fuck yourself.
He asked me again about you and the Jew's wife.
Walk, walk, walk. What'd you say?
He asked me again about you and the Jew's wife.
Yeah, what'd you tell him?
I told him I didn't know nothin'. But Jiggs and, uh, Tony Gorilla said if you did anything, you're fucked up.
You think he's goin' home, makin' a beef behind my back?
Nah. You would've heard somethin'.
Yeah, what's to stop him?
I know. I know.
I don't trust him anymore. But they'd never okay anything, you know?
Yeah, but they keep askin' about it.
Well, now, sure they're askin'. They earn with the prick. I got a funny feelin' he's gonna start a fuckin' war or somethin'. I'm not sure yet, you know. But I w You know, but you know what I want you to do?
What?
Who's this guy? Who's this guy?
Oh, he ain't nobody.
You know what I want you to do? Get a couple of guys to dig a hole in the desert, then let 'em show you where it's at.
Angelo and Buster.
Yeah, but I'm not sure yet.
They'll do it.
And when I'm ready, I'll say the words, 'Go see the Jew.'
Yeah.
And you make it disappear, you know what I mean?
Yeah, just let me know. But you gotta be ready. You know what I'm talkin' about?
Did I say to do anything yet? I said I'm not sure... I'll let you know. I want to think about it. Where're these pricks at?
Don't know.
Dominick said they're in the motel?
Yeah, either that or in the fuckin' bank. I don't know. They're all over the joint.
Calm down, calm down. Shh!
Shh. Hide her car in the back!
Whoa. Calm down.
Get out. Get out! Get out!
Take it easy!
Why'd I get involved with this fuckin' nut in the first place? Get out!
You're gonna fuckin' kill her. Take it easy.
Get her the fuck out of here. Get her out of here.
I fucked up, Frankie. I fucked up good this time. Should have never started with this fuckin' broad.
Take it easy. What could you do? I mean, she threw herself at you, right?
I'm in a bad fuckin' spot here. You know that? Bad fuckin' spot.
Frankie!
No more! You see? Watch!
Frankie! Frankie, you piece of shit!
Fuck you, you motherfuck!
No more fuckin' dirty work!
No, no, no, no!
Take him out! Take this motherfucker out!
How many of these you gonna eat, huh?
Two.
Two?
Mmhm.
You know why, right?
Yeah.
Why?
'Cause it clogs up your heart.
What a smart kid you are! Okay, eat.
Excuse me, but I folded these things beautifully and I would appreciate a little respect. Jesus Christ!
Don't look at me, pal. I gotta live with her.
There's more!
I think that's it.
There's more! There's a couple stuck in there. I know there's more.
God, I'm telling you, they're out!
Come on, damn it. Don't get so defensive. It could be stuck in your hair, you know.
Look, there aren't... There aren't but...
Oh, there aren't? What's that? Huh? What's that. There's no more. Thanks, hon.
Hey, how you doin'?
Hey. Hey, Sammy, how are you?
Wow.
Boy, look at this place, huh?
Incredible.
All right.
 back to Nigeria. Yeah.
Listen...
...they're in Penthouse K.
They check in alone?
They checked in alone.
Are they out now?
Yes, don't worry.
All right.
All right.
Okay?
Yeah.
Where are you goin'? Where are you? You're in that place. Where are you?
I'm here.
No, you're not. Where are you? Where are you?
I'm always here for you.
You are.
I am.
Don't make me come there. Answer me.
I love you.
Bubut, baby, do you know that I love you too?
No, Lester.
Do you know that?
Yeah. This is the best thing I can do for my life right now.
That's right.
So, it's gonna be okay, isn't it?
Promise?
God... I wish you...
...all the luck in the world.
You do?
Yeah, I do. I mean, it's  it's the  it's the best thing you can do right now. I mean this. And you'll have real security. Sweetheart... you're gonna be situated just right in Vegas.
 with stupid braces on your teeth.
Okay, then.
Every time I ever see you, that's what I see.
Uh, talk to you later. Bye.
What does that mean? No, I know that look. What does that mean?
It means I got the money.
You got money. That's a  That's a good look.
We'll go later.
We're going to Europe. Let the adults talk. You dye your hair... you get plastic surgery, like we talked about. Right? You're the mother. How much do you think he's gonna pay to get this fuckin' kid back?
Don't give me any of your shit! Okay, this has always been a dream, but we're going.
Lester  he called you here.
Right.
Here.
He was just on the phone.
He called you right here.
I just talked to him.
So, he knows where you are. That means he's sending some guys over here probably right now.
Ginger... It means he's sitting by the phone like a dumbbell, waiting for me to call him back. Now, I 
That's  Yeah, he's sitting by the phone like a dumbbell, just waiting for you to call him back. That's what he's 
He's sittin' by the phone 
What do you think we're gonna do? He's probably got guys outside the fuckin' house!
Get your bag! Come on, get your bag! Get your things! Let's go!
It's this bullshit. It's just bullshit right here. This is the fuckin' problem, you know.
Oh, what bullshit? What, do you want to fuckin' talk it over now?
You're done yakkin', okay? You're done yakkin' now?
Go! Go! Get in the car! Go!
'Go! Go! Go!'
Just knock it off! Would you two knock it off? Get in the car.
She started it. She started the whole thing. I'm just standin' here.
You're not gonna drive. Don't even think you're gonna drive.
No, I'm gonna drive.
No, I'm not gonna drive with some crazy 
You're driving me nuts!
Yes!
Thank you. Very nice.
I told you I was hot tonight.
I'm sorry.
Oh, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Thank you very much. Thank you very much.
Thank you, sir, I appreciate that. Everybody, thanks. Gives some chips as tips to the dealer and box man. Thanks. Take care, Steve. Take chances and drive fast.
Ginger, honey.
Come on.
What's the matter?
What do you mean, 'What's the matter?' I made a lot of money for you. I want my cut.
What money? I've seen you stealing from me.
What money? Look at this stack of chips. Don't give me that shit. I want my end.
Ginger, I've been watching you all night. You've been stealing from me.
Don't give me that shit. I want my money.
That bag's full of fuckin' chips you
What do you mean 'stole'? I didn't steal anything from you.
Get lost, Ginger! Get lost!
Get lost?
Yes.
Get lost?
Yes.
Well, how 'bout that?
Come on!
So, what'd you say to that fuckin' jerk anyway?
I told him I was Mrs Sam Rothstein.
Well, you might as well get somethin' out of it.
Great.
You know, I've got to do some shopping afterwards. Do you want to go?
Well, you know...
...same outfit.
But I saw something...
Hi, Jennifer.
Pleasure. Very nice to meet you.
Hi, how are you?
Okay, Sammy.
Tell me.
I know it wasn't a nice thing to do but 
Yeah, no shit.
Well, you gotta understand it. He doesn't know if this guy is shaking you down or taking advantage of you.
No! No! I told him all about the guy before we ever got married. This is no fuckin' surprise.
Oh, you did? I didn't know that.
Yeah. He's just a friend of mine I was trying to help, so... so what?
You know... the first time I ever saw your guys together... I never saw him so happy. I mean, I know he's a crazy Jew fuck and everything, but...
I never see  You know, I never seen him act like that with anybody else. I think he's crazy about you. I mean, he really loves you. He does.
Oh, come on. I went into this with my eyes open, you know. I knew the bottom could drop out at any time. I'm a working girl, right? You don't think I'm gonna go into a situation like this if I don't think I'm gonna get covered on the back end.
Sure.
Am I right?
I can see that. Sure.
So, he put aside some jewelry for me. A lot of jewelry.
You mean, like a lot of expensive jewelry? About how much?
Mm, you want to steal it?
No. I  I'm just curious, you know. I was wonderin' how much he would put into a thing like that. That's all.
I'm told it's worth about a million dollars, maybe more.
Well, there you go. But what does that tell ya? A million dollars in jewelry. Does that tell you the guy is crazy about you, or what?
I should have never married him. He's a Gemini. A triple Gemini... duality. Gemini's the snake. You know you can't trust the snake. I mean it.
I know what you mean.
Listen, Ginger... you know, this is probably not... I don't have the answers anyway... and this is probably not what you want to hear right now, because you're a little upset with Ace.
I do.
I understand that. But, you know, I think you should try to make the best of it now. Go slow, you know. See what happens.
He could have killed him! Okay? He could have killed him.
He didn't have to hit him. It's not exactly like I'm sleepin' with the guy! And he makes me sneak around to see my own friends! What the fuck is that all about?
Well, I guess it's 'cause he loves you so much. He's jealous and worried.
He gives a fuck what I do?
Look, I'll try to find out what the hell's goin' on. When I see him I'll talk to him.
Okay.
All right?
Yeah. Thanks.
And take it easy with this shit, will you? I mean, this can only make matters worse.
Oh, come on.
You're a beautiful girl. You don't want to ruin your looks. I've seen a lot of girls get shot to hell from this stuff.
You're so nice.
Come on, now, I don't want to see you unhappy.
Thanks.
Yeah.
Thank you.
It's all right.
You just relax. Nobody's killin' anybody, do you hear?
No, I really do. I think he's gonna kill me.
You just relax, and call me back here in exactly an hour, on this phone, and I'll see what I can do.
Yeah, uhhuh... Okay.
So, I'm gonna call you back in an hour... at this number, and you're gonna be there, right?
I'll be there.
And listen, don't do anything else crazy, okay? You all right? Okay.
Bye.
I mean, listen, two people don't get along, at some point you gotta call it... I mean, it's none of my business, but I ... I think that's what you gotta do. You gotta take it somewhere 
Oh, you're right, I know. It's... well, I was just 
What? What?
Nothin'.
What were you gonna say? Go ahead.
I don't 
Tell me what you were gonna say. Go ahead.
Yeah?
Yeah.
Well, I was thinkin', maybe... you know somebody at the bank... could help me get my jewelry out? There's a lot of money in there. Lot of money in there, and I'd be willing to take care of anybody who helped me out.
Let me think about that.
Okay.
See who I got in there. Gotta get somebody I can trust.
Mmhm.
You know?
Yeah. 'Cause, you know, He's never gonna give me my jewelry.
Hm.
He holds that key so tight, he's probably got it stuck up his ass.
Yeah, right. That's Sammy. And he's probably got it there too.
He's so fuckin' lucky. I could have buried him. I could have gone to Europe and taken the baby. And then he'd've tracked me down and he'd've killed me.
No, he wouldn't. I would have. And he'd've been right, too. I mean, seriously. Well, there's one thing you don't do. You don't take a guy's kid and then take off.
I didn't. I didn't. I mean, I did, but then I did exactly what you told me to do, and I came right back.
You did. You're right.
Exactly.
You did. I like that. I like that. That's what I like about you. You did the right thing.
I did what you told me to.
Yes, you did.
'Cause you always tell me the right thing to do.
Yeah. Boy, he really fucked himself up out here   didn't he?
Sure did.
Everything went to his head.
No, he's not.
He really thinks who the fuck he is, I'll tell you that.
Exactly. He hates me.
He hates my fuckin' guts.
Come on, come on, you're a toughie. You can take this. Don't cry.
I'm not as tough as you think I am.
Yes, you are.
I'm not and he scares the shit out of me. I never know what he's gonna do.
Come on. Don't be scared.
I need some help. I do. I need some help. You gotta help me. I need a new sponsor, Nicky.
I do. I need a new sponsor.
Is that what you want?
Yeah.
A sponsor.
Yeah.
Mm... okay. Don't worry about it. Nobody'll fuck with ya anymore. I'll take care of ya.
Nicky, please...
Yes, I will. It's what you want, isn't it? Huh?
Thank you. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
It's what you want?
Yeah. Uhhuh 
What did I tell you? Supposing he goes back home and makes a fuckin' beef? I gotta know exactly what you said. Tell me what you said to him.
Me? I said... nothin'. I said, I said, 'No, no, no.' Everything he said, I just kept sayin' no.
I told you this was fuckin' dangerous. Remember I said, 'Ginger, this is a dangerous situation. Be very careful.' You fuckin' yessed me to death.
If it's so fuckin' dangerous, then why don't you kill him?
I'm not gonna kill him. Shut the fuck up. What, do you know what you're talkin' about? I'm not killing anyb
Oh, well, then, have him killed and get it over with.
Hey, don't be such a fuckin' smartass, will you? I mean, I know the fuckin' guy thirtyfive years, I'm gonna fuckin' whack him for you? Fuck... motherfucker! I knew this, I knew it.
What about my money?
How the fuck am I gonna get your fuckin' money now? You think he's gonna give you fuckin' money? Are you out of your mind?! Look what you just did to this fuckin' guy! If you would have just kept your fuckin' mouth shut! Ah, what the fuck is the use? I should've never got invol
Ah, you fuck! You're such a fuckin' asshole!
Get the fuck out of here. Get out! Get the fuck out!
Get the fuck out of here.
I don't need you! I have my own fuckin' money!
All right, all right.
I'm going' to the FBI! I'm not scared anymore!
All right. Be careful.
You fucked with me for the last time!
Okay, yeah.
You got a round figure on it?
Definitely the most important guy in this room.
But back then the bosses didn't give a fuck about whether he enjoyed himself of not. To them, he was a cash register. All they had to do was ring the bell and take the money. Especially Remo, who was a fuckin' degenerate gambler who always lost.
Ma che cazzo!
I mean, unless Ace made his bet.
That's enough now!
Ace.
Keepin' Remo happy with money was the greatest insurance policy in the world.
Hey, Nick. Vien acca. [Italian American slang for 'Come here']
I'll be right out.
T'aggia parla. [ItalianAmerican slang for 'I've got to talk to you'] Nicky... See that guy?
Mm.
Keep a good eye on him. He's makin' a lot of money for us. And he's gonna continue makin' a lot of money for us, so keep a good eye on him.
Mm.
Not like your fuckin' friends out there, that... without brains. Okay?
All right.
Uhhuh. Mi raccomando. [Italian American slang for 'I'm counting on you']
Yeah.
Fine.
Want me to take this for you?
Uhhuh. Good.
But I knew how to keep the bosses happy. Whenever they gave me little jobs to do, you know, to send a message, I would carry things out...
And how are things going down there?
Hey, Frankie.
How are you?
Fine, fine.
...I want all the names of all the other people he had with him. And I don't care what you have to do to him to get 'em. You understand?
I'll take care of it, Remo.
E mo va! [ItalianAmerican slang for 'Now, go!']
Frankie... they found a guy's head in the desert. Do you know about that?
Yeah, I heard, yeah.
Yeah. Everybody's talkin' about it. They're makin' a big deal out of it.
I know.
It's in all the papers.
What're you gonna do?
And I mean... that's no good.
I know.
You gotta tell him... to take care of things a little better.
I'll tell him, Remo.
Frankie, I want to ask you something.
It's private... but I want you to tell me the truth.
Of course, Remo.
I want you to tell me the truth, mind you.
I always tell you the truth, Remo.
Frankie... the little guy, he wouldn't be fuckin' the Jew's wife, would he? Because if he is... it's a problem.
What could I say? I knew if I gave the wrong answer, I mean, Nicky, Ginger, Ace, all of 'em could've would up gettin' killed.
Because there's one thing about these old timers: They don't like any fuckin' around with the other guy's wives. It's bad for business.
So, I lied... even though I knew that by lyin' to Gaggi, I could wind up gettin' killed too.
No. I ain't see anything like that.
Are you sure?
I'm positive. Remo... things are very fucked up down there, you know?
Yeah, I know. That's why I'm asking. You see, my main concern is Nicky.
Hm.
I want to know... if he's doin' all right. If he's okay.
He's good. He's fine.
I'm askin' you, Frankie, to keep an eye on Nicky. Do it for me.
No problem.
You see... I wouldn't want to be jeopardizing anything for people who are our friends. You understand?
I understand.
Okay. Frankie, you're a good boy.
We're  we're placing you under arrest for 
For what?
We're placing you under arrest for aiding and abetting 
What?
We're placing you under arrest for aiding and abetting a 
But I'm just trying to leave.
Artie!
Calm down! Calm down!
No, I won't calm down! He's my husband!
Stay out of the way!
Artie! Artie!
We can't help him if 
Hey, Nicky, how are you? What are you doin' here?
I'm over here now.
Yeah, I'm over here with him.
Oh.
Carmine? He was here before. I saw him. He had a suitcase and everything, and then he left.
Carmine left?
Uhhuh.
I think, you know, maybe he went across the street or somewhere else or somethin'. I don't know.
Well, listen, uh... Good luck with the joint, huh?
Oh, thanks, Eddy.
Oh.
We're waiting on Carmine.
Yeah, we're lookin' for Carmine.
Carmine left?
He's gone?
He's not here?
Carmine's gone.
...in some legitimate places, like my restaurant.
Is that the last one?
I had my kid brother, Dominick, run it for me.
Fuckers!
Do you see that? Dumb Jew motherfucker. Grew up together and he's actin' like he don't even know me. I know we're supposed to avoid each other, but, you know, there's ways to do things and there's ways not to.
Yeah. Fuck him.
Forget about it, Nick. Don't let it bother you.
Why, does it look like it's bothering me? What do I give a fuck? Fuckin' Oscar too. All the fuckin' money I've given that prick, he don't even look over here. What's his problem?
He's comin' over.
Great!
Beautiful. You got a beautiful swing.
Ace got my son, little Nicky, involved with Little League, and it was great.
Now, I want you to get out there and get me singles and doubles, okay? 'Cause that's what's gonna win this game.
Turned out to be one of the other coaches was a fuckin'...
Now go out there and show your dad what you can do.
...metro intelligence cop. But it didn't matter. I mean, it was all about the kids, you know.
You know, he's gotta realize everything can't be a home run that he does.
Yeah, well, that's exactly what I keep tellin' him, but that's the kind of kid he is ever since he's born.
It's instinctive, you know.
He tries to do everything...
You called my friend a faggot? You tell him to go fuck himself?
Nicky, I did 
Is that what you did?
I did  I didn't 
Tell him to go fuck himself? You fuckin' hick! Fuckin'...
You took your boots off? You put your feet on the table... you shit kicking, stinky, horsemanuresmellin' motherfucker you! You fuck me up over there, I'll stick you in a hole in the fuckin' desert! You understand? Go over there and apologize. Go! Get the fuck out of 
Nicky, I'm sorry.
Sir, you're gonna have to leave. You mind accompanying us outside?
Bullshit, I ain't goin' anywhere with you!
Bullshit, you're out of here, cowboy!
Fuck you! Fuck you!
Yeah?
You know who you're fuckin' with?! Huh? Do you?!
Now move along.
You fuckin' faggot! Do you know who you're fuckin' with?
Leave me alone!
Here we go!
You've gotta be kidding me!
What do you want? It  It's pitch black out here. It's tin foil.
Pitchblack?! It 
It looked like a fuckin' gun!
You  You fuckin' moron, I'll be filling out paper work for the next two months because of you and this piece of shit, you...
Oh my God, what are we gonna do? I'm sorry.
...fuckin' jerkoff.
Hey!
Hey!
All right. Okay, okay.
Mr Rothstein, why don't we just let her in the house and get a few of her things? That way she'll get out of here. This is half her house anyway.
Hey, Mr Rothstein, it'll make it a lot easier on everybody here if we just let her in the house.
If we let her get a few of her things we'll be out of your hair.
Come on. I'm sorry.
Okay.
There's nothing we can do. She had the key.
She's on the account. There's nothing we can do.
Go back inside! This is none of your business! I don't have to take your shit all the time anymore.
Hey.
I'll to the FBI!
Mrs Ro Mrs Rothstein! Okay, shh!
He won't...
He won't let me in my own house!
Mr Rothstein. Mr Rothstein, I'm sorry. We've got some complaints about  about the noise.
I'm just trying to get in my house!
I understand.
He won't let me go in my house!
Fucker!
Please.
Can I go in?
That's not a problem, that's not a p
Can I go in?
Jeff, would you go in with her?
Um, I'm gonna need a bag. If you could just ask the guy for a big bag, okay?
Go get a bag, man.
And here. Here.
Lady, I can't. I can't. I ca
No, you can, you can. You've been so nice to me.
I can't.
You just  Just stop him.
Mr Ro Mr Roth Mr Rothstein, where you goin' 
Yeah, that works out.
But how much cash could I bury in my closet, right?
You need to understand, and I  I'm sure you do... that in a venture of this kind, you have to be prepared to take some kind of loss.
Oh, listen, I understand that there's always a risk... you know, I might have to take a loss somewhere.
So I put some of the money into legitimate deals with Charlie Clark. He was Ace's banker.
I mean, you will try to push it through, won't you, Mr Clark?
Yes.
Well, you gotta understand, I'm giving you fifty thousand cash.
No, I don't want one. Hey, Mr Clark, how you doin'?
Hi. Good.
I've been trying to reach you. You're tougher to get than the President.
Well, I've been busy.
Yeah, least you could do is return my phone calls, though.
Listen... Nicky... we talked about this... and, uh, I explained to you that there was the possibility you might have to take some kind of loss.
Yeah. I think I want my money back.
What're you gonna do? Strongarm me?
You know... I think that you've gotten the wrong impression about me. I think in all fairness, I should explain to you what it is that I do. For instance, tomorrow morning I'll get up nice and early, take a walk down over to the bank and walk in and see you, and, uh... if you don't have my money for me, I'll crack your fuckin' head wide open in front of everybody in the the bank. And just about the time that I'm comin' out of jail, hopefully, you'll be comin' out of your coma. And guess what? I'll split your fuckin' head open again. Because I'm fuckin' stupid. I don't give a fuck about jail. That's my business. That's what I do. And we know what you do, don't we, Charlie? You fuck people out of money and get away with it.
You can't talk to me like...
Hey, you fat Irish prick. You put my fuckin' money to sleep. You go get my money, or I'll put your fuckin' brain to sleep.
Sam?
Never mind fuckin' Sam. This is personal. I'll be there in the morning. You can fuckin' try me, fatso.
I was out there with my cumma [Italian American slang for 'girlfriend'.]
Your cumma? What are you doin' with your cumma?
What else? I gave her a schaff [ItalianAmerican slang for 'tap'.]
You gotta go back there and talk to that guy.
Come on, go back there? I never got paid my expenses for the last trip.
What expenses?
Well, I'm goin' all over, layin' money out of my own pocket, and I never get anything back. What the hell's goin' on?
You gotta go back out there.
Well, then, from now on, I'm gonna start keepin' records.
Artie, no records, Artie. What are you gonna do with records? Pay taxes?
Well, I keep layin' out my own fuckin' dough for these trips and nothin' ever comes back. I mean, what hell's goin' on? What are we doin' over here?
You're goin' out to Las Vegas, you're havin' a good time at my expense. What the fuck? I mean, after all, you're the one having a good time, not me.
Hey... you got a minute? Hey. He's got two million in the box, am I right? Okay, you let him keep your jewels. We take the cash and the only other thing he cares about. Huh? Her majesty. We go to Europe. You dye your hair, get some pl
I don't want to go to Europe. I want to go to see The Elephant Man.
We're not gonna go see any fuckin' elephants, okay?
I don't want to go to Europe.
Shut your mouth!
You know where she gets this from!
You shut up.
No, you  You want me to come over there? I'll smack your face.
When I left here with the money...
Mm.
...I got muscled on the street.
Mm.
A couple of guys, I owe them. So, that's what I did. I gave 'em the money. That's what I did.
Yeah?
Yeah.
You call yourself a man? You know you're a lyin', lowlife, motherfuckin' gambling degenerate prick? You know that's what you are? Two small kids at home. I gave you money to pay the fuckin' rent and buy groceries, put the heat on. You know your wife called Frankie and told him the fuckin' heat's off?
No, no? You didn't?
I didn't give 'em the m
Don't fuck with me, Al! Don't make a fuck out of me! You want to embarrass me and make a fool out of me?! You didn't gamble?! Tell me you gambled the fuckin' money, I'll give you the fuckin' money to put the fuckin' heat on! Did you gamble?! Huh?!
Fuckin' kids at home! Here. Get the fuck out of here.
Thanks, Nick.
Yeah, thanks.
I just wanna get out of here.
And don't forget to tell your friends what happens if they fuck around in here. You understand?
I'm sorry. I made a bad mistake.
You're fuckin' right, you made a bad mistake. 'Cause if you come back here  we catch either one of you  we're gonna break your fuckin' heads and you won't walk out of here. You see that fuckin' saw? We're gonna use it. You don't fuck around in this place. You got it?
Yeah.
Get out of here.
Thank you.
Excuse me.
What?
Is this yours? Your pen?
Yeah, that's my pen. Why?
I ju Well, it's a nice pen. I just didn't know whose it was. I thought it was yours. I didn't want it to get lost.
Well, thank you. Why don't you take that fuckin' pen and shove it up you ass, you fuckin' jagoff?
We had to make an example of these pricks that the party was over.
I'm just curious. I saw you shuffling your checks with your right hand. Can you do that with both hands?
No.
Can't do it with both hands?
No, Sir.
Can you do it with your left hand?
Well, I... I never tried.
So, you're a righty?
Yeyeah.
Now, you're gonna have to learn with your left hand.
God!
Look what they did to my hand, man!
All right, I'm gonna give you a choice. You can either have the money and the hammer or you can walk out of here. You can't have both. What do you want?
...worst possible time for me.
A record of the arrests...
I had my license hearing coming up and I didn't wanna leave anything to chance.
That was nineteen years ago, and they were simple gambling pinches.
I mean, if I can't work in Vegas, where am I gonna go?
You've been very open with us. I mean, uh, your books and papers and... that  that's gonna mean something when you go before the Commission.
Well, that's all I ask, gentlemen, a fair hearing.
Ah, yes, here we are. A little craps figures. [Actual amount taken from craps tables before the skim.] Hey  Hey.
Green?
It won't happen again, Sam.
Mr Rothstein.
Loose machines are right back over there.
What are they doin' way back there? Bring 'em up here where they belong. You can't even see 'em over there.
Okay, I'll 
What about the progressives with the high jackpots? Where are they? These machines are hidden.
Well...
These are our best machines. They bring all the action. No wonder the drop is off.
Yeah, okay.
The action is in the front, not in the back. Bring 'em up front.
All right, I will, I will.
Listen to me very carefully. There are three ways of doing things around here. The right way, the wrong way, and the way I do it. You understand?
I do understand that. I'll get right on it. And thank you.
Don't thank me, just do it. You're the Slots Manager. I shouldn't have to tell you this.
Dang, you are right, Mr Rothstein, I am so sorry.
Four reels, sevens across, three fifteenthousanddollar jackpots? Do you have any idea what the odds are?
Shoot, it's gotta be in the millions, maybe more.
Three fuckin' jackpots in twenty minutes? Why didn't you pull the machines? Why didn't you call me?
Well, it happened so quick. Three guys won. I didn't have a chance to call you.
You didn't see the scam? You didn't see what was goin' on?
Well, there's no way to determine that, Sam.
Yes, there is. An infallible way! They won!
Well, it's a casino. People gotta win sometimes.
Hey... Ward, you're pissin' me off. Now, you're insulting my intelligence. What do you think, I'm a fuckin' idiot? You know goddamn well somebody had to get into those machines and set those fuckin' reels.
The probability on onefourreel machine is a million and a half to one. On three machines in a row, it's in the billions. It cannot happen... would not happen, you fuckin' momo! What's the matter with you! Didn't you see you were bein' set up on the second win?
I really think you're 
You  Wait! You didn't see that you were being set up on the second win?
I really think you're overreacting in this whole 
Listen, you fuckin' yokel, I've had it with you. I've been carryin' your ass in this place ever since I got here. Get your ass and get your things and get out of here.
You're firin' me?
I'm firin' you? No, I'm not firin' I'm firin' you, you 
You might regret this, Mr Rothstein.
I'll regret it even more if I keep you on.
This is not the way to treat people.
Listen, if you didn't know you're bein' scammed, you're too fuckin' dumb to keep this job. If you did know, you were in on it. Either way, you're out! Get out! Go on. Let's go.
...Well, I've got a large family.
How many kids do you have?
Uh, I'm very proud to say that we have eight children.
Eight children!
No, no, no, no, please, please, please, please, no, please.
That's amazing.
There was nothing to it. It was my pleasure.
Yeah, thanks for not callin' me a liar. You sonofabitch. You sonof a
Good evening, everyone, I'm Paige Novodor. What should have been a routine licensing hearing turned into bedlam yesterday when the flamboyant Tangiers Casino executive, Sam
...'Ace' Rothstein, accused the state's top gaming officials of corruption.
What are you running for, Bob? What are you running for?
...and hypocrisy.
Don't you remember? You promised me a fair hearing when you were gettin' comped at my hotel and you were asking me for copies of your bills so 
 you could put 'em on your expense account?
In a Wild and unprecedented outburst that followed his gaming license denial, Rothstein followed several...
Bullshit! Bullshit!
...stunned commissioners into the hallway, where he continued his harangue until his own lawyers and friends urged him to leave.
We all have a past. You have a past, I have a past. And my past is no worse than yours. But you guys think you have the right to pass judgement on me.
Long suspected of running the Tangiers without...
...twenty years in order to find nothin' on me 
I'm going to go powder my nose.
Ginger's mission in life was money.
I'll be right back.
See you, Ginger.
Okay, thank you for asking.
She was a queen around the casino. She brought in high rollers and helped them spread around a lot of money.
Hello.
Any change?
I hit a few... uh, games on the way back.
That was all bullshit. She just pocketed the cash.
She took care of the dealers...
Hey, Mitch.
...pit bosses, floor managers.
Thank you.
But mostly...
...she took care of the valet parkers, the guys who could get you anything and take care of anything.
Thanks a lot.
The Ginger I knew wouldn't even look at this creep.
Good luck.
Within no time, everything was set in place. We got rid of the freelance scamsters. The per was way up. The gods were happy, or as happy as the gods can ever be. And I, I decided to complicate my life. For a guy who likes sure things, I was about to bet the rest of my life on a real longshot.
We're not getting any younger. Don't you think it's time? Aren't you gettin' tired of all this shit? Bangin' around, hustlin' around?
What, are you trying to handicap me?
I'm gonna do you one better. I'm trying to marry you. You want to marry me? I'm serious. I mean, I  I want to settle down. I want a family.
You got the wrong girl, Sam.
I know I'd be a good father. I know you'd be a good mother.
You don't know me. What, you've known me, two, three months. What do you know?
I'm fortythree years old. I don't want to wait. I know you well enough to know that I really love you very much. And I can't think of anybody better to be with. And I don't feel like waiting anymore.
You know a lot of happily married people, Sam? 'Cause I don't.
Yeah, I know all that.
I care about you, a  But I just don't have those kind of feelings for you. I'm sorry. I'm not in love with you.
I  I  I...
Understand? I'm sorry.
No, I  I... mean... that can grow as I  as long as there's a mutual respect... that kind of thing can grow. I'm realistic. I can accept that. But, you know, what is... What is love anyway? It's a... it's a mutual respect. It's  it's a devotion. It's a... it's a caring from one person to another. And if we could set up some kind of foundation... based on that mutual respect... I feel that eventually you would care enough about me... that I could live with that.
If it doesn't work out. You know, if it doesn't play out, then what happens to me?
You know I'm doin' well now. And I'm gonna do even better. And so, whatever happens, if it doesn't work out between us, I'm gonna make sure you're okay for the rest of your life. And if there are kids, especially, you know, I'll take care of you better than you'd ever imagine.
What're you... what're you pitching me, here?
Just what I said. You'll be set up for the rest of your life. That I can promise you. Want to take a chance?
You all right?
Yeah.
Why're you crying?
I'm not crying.
Maybe you shouldn't drink so much.
I'm okay. I just  You just have to understand. I've been with Lester since I was a kid. I just wanted to say goodbye. I  I just... I don't... I think I have a right to do that. Okay?
It's all right. That part of your life is over with. Right?
Yeah.
You're with me now.
Yeah.
Right?
Uhhuh.
You sure?
Yeah. Yeah.
Want to go? Let's go back in.
Okay.
You're kidding? My God. What is it?
It's chinchilla.
Oh, it's so soft.
It's nice isn't it?
Oh...
So, do you think it's too much if I wear these in the same day?
You do whatever you want. Do I keep my promises, or do I keep my promises?
You're so wonderful. The jewelry's not so bad, either.
The only thing is... you shouldn't keep this in the house. We gotta put it in a bank.
Come on. Can I keep this one in the house?
Now look, pay attention to me. What I'm gonna tell you is very important.
Okay.
All this stuff doesn't mean anything. Money, this, doesn't mean anything without trust. I have to be able to trust you with my life.
Crooked cops and kidnappers, they don't take checks.
Need a little help with that, Mr Collins?
So, I put two million in cash in a Los Angeles bank under the name of Mr and Mrs Tom Collins. This was strictly my shakedown and kidnapping money.
Hi. Nice to see you.
She could be the most charming woman you ever saw. People loved to be around her.
Hey, do you want to see this one? Daddy gave me all this jewelry because he loves me so much. Put your arm in there.
But as much as they loved her...
Oh, fabulous.
...they didn't know what really moved her.
Okay, want to go with Mommy?
What do you need?
You get her? Okay. Well, I need a lot. I need more than usual.
Well, why don't you take it out of your account? There's a lot there.
Well, I would, you know, Sam. It's just that... well, I need more than that. I need twentyfive thousand.
Twentyfive thousand? For yourself?
Yeah.
Why do you need that much?
Well, what's the difference? I just need it.
Well, I mean... you know, I gotta ask you. That's a lot of money. You're not asking for a box of popcorn, you know. I mean...
I'm aware of that. We don't have to turn this into a big deal. Okay? We don't have to have a fight. It was important to me. But forget it. Just something I wanted to do for myself.
Who's fighting? I mean, I'm, you know, tell me what it's for.
Huh? Well, you know what? Now, I want you to tell me. I mean, my wife comes to me and asks me for twentyfive thousand. I mean, what do you want? Do you want a coat?
No.
Well, if you want a coat, you got it. You know that. It's not the money, it's just why do you want it? That's all I'm askin'. Am I not entitled to that?
Look  Sam, I've been independent my whole life. I never had to ask anybody for anything. Now you're making me beg you for this.
What are you talkin' a ?
Okay? And you're embarrassing me. Why do want to make me feel so bad?
You're askin' me for twentyfive thousand. I'm not out to make you feel bad. I want to just be able to trust you. You now, it's about trust. I have to be able to trust you with my life. Do you understand? Can I trust you? Can I trust you?... Can I trust you?... Answer me. Can I trust you?
You can trust me.
Good, so then you could tell me what the money is for.
You remember when you called him that night? When you said goodbye to him? He didn't say, 'Don't get married, I'll be right down, we'll get married.' He didn't say that to you, did he?
No, he didn't.
Didn't. No, instead, what did he say? 'Fuck him. Take him for everything he's got.'
Huh?
Isn't it bad enough you're drinkin' too much, you're takin' all my pills too?
I didn't take your pills.
Look  for my ulcer, I take a half a one of these, a half a one of these. And that's when I have extreme pain. I had a threemonth supply. What'd you do with 'em?
You didn't have to beat him up!
What?
I was just tryin' to help him. It's not like I'm sleeping with the guy!
Yeah, how do I know?
You can't make me stop caring...
What? What?!
I said, you can't make me stop caring about people.
Listen. Ginger. I'm tryin' to make the best of everything here, you know? I mean, you're my wife, for chrissakes. Uh, I mean... people look up to you in this town. I don't know what to think 
You know what, Ace? I don't give a shit! I'm gettin' out of here. I am.
It's okay. Look... ...you gotta get a hold of yourself.
Okay.
If not for me, at least for Amy.
Okay, okay.
You understand? Your drinking's gettin' way out of hand. I'm gonna get you into a program. They got plenty of good ones.
I don't need one.
Yes, you do. It's very discreet. There's no names in the papers. You don't have to worry about any of that stuff.
That's all you care about. You don't care about me at all.
Yes, I  yes, I do.
No, you don't.
How could you say that? You're a beautiful woman. You're destroying yourself. You don't need that stuff. You don't need that fuckin' leech livin' off you. I know you better than you know yourself. You're a tiger, you're stronger than I am. And when you set your mind on doing something, you do it better than anybody. You can do it. You can do it.
Oh, God. Oh, God. Okay. Okay... I'll try. I'll try.
You see, if a phone's tapped, the Feds can only listen in...
...on the stuff involving crimes. So on...
...routine calls, they have to click off after a few minutes.
Yeah, and I get a sprained fuckin' elbow.
I mean she's only sober about two hours a day. It's usually from eleven in the morning until one in the afternoon. And if I gave her her money and her jewels now, you know what she's gonna do? She's gonna piss it all away in about a year, and then where will she be? Where would you be then? Comin' right back to me, right back to me. Or finding some other excuse to come and I  I 
We had a deal. Remember that? He said if it didn't work out between us, that I could get my things and I could leave.
Look in my eyes. Look in my eyes.
Well, that's why I'm here. She wants to come back, but she's afraid you're gonna whack her out.
Yeah, they're gonna kidnap my kid. What do you want?
Hello.
Hi, it's me. Just who you wanted to talk to, right?
Listen...
...uhuhuh  I'm not gonna ask you where you are, just please, put Amy on a plane. Just put her on right away, any plane to get her here right away...
...please. That's all I'm askin' you.
Do you... I mean... I don't think she should go by herself.
What do you mean?
What I mean is, you think if, uh, do you think if I came back... do you think you could forgive me?
Uh, I don't know. I gotta tell you, I don't know.
Right.
I underunderstand that. II know I fucked up.
What about the money? Uh, where's the box?
I gotta tell ya...
...II... made some mistakes and I spent some money.
What's it...
...under?
Pretty serious.
How serious?
It's, uh, it's under twentyfive.
It's under...
...twentyfive thousand?
Yeah.
And...
...the rest of the two million is still there?
Yeah, yeah, I got the rest.
Okay, no big deal. That's okay. Yeah. He got his twentyfive. That I'll live with. Any more I couldn't.
Okay?
All right...
So, what'd ya do with it?
With what?
With the money.
He needed some clothes.
Twentyfive thousand for clothes.
He wanted a watch, too.
Twentyfive thousand for clothes and a watch.
Mmhm.
Mmhm.
The good part was, I had Amy back. So, we went home, had the housekeeper stay over, put the kid to bed, I calmed myself down and we went to dinner. I tried to keep things nice and civil, you know. But... hey, twentyfive thousand for three suits? That doesn't make much sense.
First of all, he's not gonna wear f thousanddollar suits. But let's say he did, which he won't. How you gonna get fitted for twentyfive suits in three days? I, um, I mean, how could you get fitted that fast? I can't get fitted that fast, and I pay twice as much.
I bought him a watch too.
Yeah.
Yeah.
But even if you bought him a watch, a really nice watch, one that he thought was nice  and he doesn't know what the fuck a good watch is  so, you go, five, ten, twelve grand?
Yeah.
At the most, which is impossible for him.
Plus, at the most, three suits, a thousand apiece. That still leaves what? Around ten thousand?
Would you knock it off, Sam?
I'm just tryin' to figure it out.
There's nothin' to figure out. I'm home... we're workin' it out.
Yes, I want to kill you! I hate your fuckin' guts!
You hate my guts? I want you to come with me now.
Get off of me! Stop it!
Come with me now! Come with me now. Come with me now. I want you out of here.
I want you out of here! I want you out of here!
Let go of me! Let go of me!
Take your fuckin' bag and get out of here!
I'll go, but I want my money right now!
The arrangement is over!
No kidding. NO KIDDING!
And I still get my money. I need some cash right now. You can't just put me in the street.
I'll get your cash. You haven't been straight with me ever since I met you! You never loved me in the first place! I need eyes in the back of my fuckin' head with you, you fuckin' bitch!
You're lower than a dog!
Fuck you!
Here. Here. Is this enough money?! Huh? Will it last you two fuckin' days? Take it, greedy bitch. Take the fuckin' money you fuckin' want.
I'm going to the bank and I'm getting my jewelry too!
Yeah, no kidding. Good! It opens at 9 a.m. Be there!
And don't send your guys down there to stop me! I mean it.
Stop! You aren't getting rid of me with one fuckin' suitcase!
You'll come back tomorrow and get the rest. Just get out of here.
Fine. I'm takin' Amy.
You're not takin' Amy.
I am. I'm wakin' her up right now.
You're stoned. You're a junkie. Get out of here.
I am not! She's my daughter too! Goddamn you!
Get out of here!
Hi. You didn't answer your beeper.
I threw it away.
You threw it away?
Look, I tried to do this thing. I know that you want me to, but it's just  You know, I'm driving down the freeway and the fuckin' thing's 'beepbeepbeepbeep'. You know, I'm in a restaurant and it's  it's embarrassing. I don't want to do it anymore. Where's Amy?
I put her to bed.
Oh. I got your cigarettes.
Oscar wants you to call him.
So, who'd you go to lunch with?
With Jennifer.
And where'd you go?
To the Riviera.
What'd you have?
I had a... salad.
What did Jennifer have?
She had the same.
Okay. I want you to call Jennifer and I want you to tell her to tell you what she had for lunch, and I'm gonna listen in on the other line.
Why do you want to do that?
You know why I want to do it. Just do it.
Fine. Just gonna get the bowl for my thing.
Mm.
All right... I didn't have lunch with Jennifer.
Who were you with?
I was with somebody.
I know you were with somebody. Who was it? I just hope it's not someone who I think it might be. I just hope it's not them.
...she did what she did and I did what I had to do. But, Jesus, Nicky was the worst thing she could've done.
What if he won't stop?
I mean, it could get us both killed.
I can back him off.
Hi, Sam.
I mean, you tie up our kid and you lock the fuckin' door? Are...
Oh...
...you out of your mind? That's our child. Are you out of your fuckin' mind?
It's just for a little while, Sam. The babysitter wasn't there.
I ought to fuckin' have you committed. You fuckin' do that again, I'll f, I'll f
She wasn't gonna get up. I was just gonna be out for a little while.
I should have 
I mean, she was asleep. I was going to be right back before she even woke up.
Listen to me, listen to me, listen to me. Listen, you fuckin' cunt.
Oh, sh
Listen to me.
Fuck you.
Let me tell you something. Listen to me.
I w I was gonna be back before she woke up.
You listen carefully! You ever fuckin' touch her again, you ever do anything like that again, I'll fuckin' kill you. Pure and simple. Do you hear me? Pure and fuckin' simple, I'll fuckin' kill you, you bitch.
Why don't you just let me go, Sam?
You fuckin' whore!
I'll sign anything you want me to sign, okay?
You understand? What? Let you go?
I just want the key to my jewelry, and I want you to let me go.
You want your jewelry?
I want you to let me go.
And what? And let you disgrace me, you fuckin' pig? And let you disgrace me? Get up. Get up and be a mother. Get in the car and go to the house...
Get  Get up! Get up!
I wou I wouldn't do that if I were you.
Get  get up!
I wouldn't do that...
Get up! Get going! Get up!
I wouldn't 
Get the fu You threatening me? I'll fuckin' kill you in this place! Get up and go home right now.
Now you need approval from him to go home?
So what? So who fuckin' blew you in the parking lot before you came in... huh?
You make me sick, you fuck. Once a fuckin' hooker, always a hooker.
Oh, fuck you! Fuck you, Sam Rothstein! Fuck you!
She, she's alone. Just go. Take the gun and go into Amy's.
You get down here!
Just wait there for me!
Get down here and talk to me, goddamn it! Don't fuckin' ignore me! You motherfucker!
You come out here and talk to me, you fucker!
Will you stop it? You're drunk, you're on drugs. You're gonna 
I am not!
You're gonna be sorry if you don't stop that.
Don't you threaten me!
You'll wake the whole neighborhood!
Don't you threaten me!
You are not threatening me anymore!
I'm not 
I won't let her in. I'm sorry, Randy, I'm not gonna let her in. She  Well, I'm not gonna let her in, the way she's behaving. I'm  I'm 
Not gonna let me in?
Who knows what you're gonna do in there? I don't want you 
What do you mean, what am I gonna do? I'm in the same clothes for two days! I want to get a few of my things! Big deal!
I'm afraid to let her in the house.
Oh, you are...
I'm afraid she's gonna destroy stuff.
Let me in the house! Fucker!
Should I let her in like  ?
You ought to be afraid, the way you fuckin' treat me!
If she calms down, I will let her in the house.
I am calm!
If she calms down...
After all the threats and all the bullshit, it turned out Ginger didn't tell 'em anything. But by then, the Feds didn't need her, anyway.
But it was just mine.
They had all the pieces they needed.
I hired an old casino pal, Billy Sherbert, as my manager and I went to work.
...And this is Ronnie, who takes care of the card room...
For guys like me, Las Vegas washes away your sins. It's a morality car wash. It does for us what Lourdes does for humpbacks and cripples. And, along with making us legit...
We need this guy.
We can't get rid of him?
He's juiced in. He's the County Commissioner's cousin.
I wouldn't give the bum a mop job.
I had dozens of politicians and state officials comin' through that place every week.
Nice to see you, Senator.
Help the Senator, give him whatever he wants.
Certainly. Senator.
Why not make them happy?
We have some nice penthouses you'll enjoy. Maybe the Presidential Suite.
Fuckin' asshole won't budge.
Call security.
This woman's an institution.
I don't care what she is. She's an institution, that's the problem. She's lazy.
To Abraham Lincoln.
L'chaim. [Yiddish for 'to life']
Here we go. Good luck.
Sam, we got a problem.
What is it?
The little guy. He's half in the bag, and nobody told him he was eighty sixed from the joint, so we...
Now, he's really pissed.
Oh, no.
He wants a fiftythousand marker.
No, just  just give him, give him ten. That's it. Ten. I'll be right down.
He's gonna come up with ten thousand, just the way you wanted.
Yeah, Billy Sherbert, please. Put him on.
Who's this?
Yeah, Bill, listen, I'll explain to you later. Just  You  You got a gun at home? Yeah. Bring it over here right away.
Okay. Just take it easy.
Right away. Okay?
II'll do it.
Okay.
Mr Rothstein, sir, let me put her on suspension.
Never mind the 'sir'. Never mind the 'sir'.
Well, sir, I was just...
Why is she eight pounds over?
...trying to offer you the respect that your...
I...
...position...
'Mr Rothstein' is good enough.
Mr Rothstein... well, sometimes, when you reach that pressure point, when you put that pressure point on them, you know, it shows...
She could at least lose half a pound or a quarter. Listen...
...and she doesn't always 
...all you do is give me answers. Just  just give me the right answer.
But, sir. Well, I don't know why. I guess, maybe, because she's frightened that if she doesn't lose the weight she may even get fired.
That's right. She will get fired. In fact, I want you to send her back to Paris.
It's always been our policy 
No. Just stop everything.
Want something to drink? Charlie you want a refill?
Yeah, refill'd be great.
Charlie, you've gotta  you've gotta stop her!
II'm sorry, Sam.
You've got to stop her.
What can I do?
She's a fuckin' junkie. She's out of her fucking mind. Do you unders
Legally, she can't take that stuff. Legally, she can't take the stuff.
No, Ace.
Half of everything is mine.
Ace, listen to me.
Half  I'm comin' down.
Oh, yes. Will you help me fold these, please?
They were ready to blame him for anything, no matter where it happened.
You go and put your things away.
And they were usually right.
Because Nicky enjoyed being a gangster, and he didn't give a damn who knew it.
Come on. There we go. Look at that. Beautiful.
I mean, that's what worried me, 'cause it turns out Nicky was about to be sent to Vegas.
All right, we're clear.
This is Jennifer and Nick. They're dear friends of mine.
Good to meet you.
You know, I don't feel like playin' tennis.
...as soon as Andy got back home, Nicky heard about our talk in the car.
Let's go to lunch. Do you want to go to the Riviera?
Next morning bright and early, I get the call.
Hello.
Hello, Jennifer, it's Sam 
Sonofabitch. How the hell did you get OklahomaMichigan? Nobody ever had OklahomaMi... How the hell'd you do it?
Well, that's why they paid so well.
You see? Never tells me nothin'. Ace, what do we got on for next week?
Well, it's a little too early. I'd say Thursday would be good. I'll know by then. Is that all right?
Okay. You come by the house?
I'll come by.
Seven o'clock?
Seven o'clock.
Mr Rothstein... I'm Pat Webb.
How do you do?
Hey, it is my pleasure.
Yeah, I heard a lot about you.
Oh, thank you, sir.
Hey, house is doin' well. Hey, all that money is rollin' in. I appreciate you takin' the time to see a poor ol' civil servant.
No, that's quite all right.
Uh, I come here personally to kind of smooth over a fracas about a certain matter. See, uh, maybe you didn't know it, but, uh, Don Ward is a very wellliked man in this town. He's got lots of friends here. Now, his family and their money go back many, many years. Now, friends vote... family and money votes. That's important to me... and you. And if you'll think about our little problem along them lines... and you forgive me for sayin' it, maybe he did not deserve to be fired.
I'm sorry, but he knew about our gettin' hit on three big machines in a row and he did nothing about it. That means either he was in on it or, forgive me for saying this, he was too dumb to see what was going on. Either way, I cannot have a man like that workin' here.
Before we point the dirty end of the stick at 'ol Don, uh, we better be sure we can prove them charges.
Believe me, if I could prove it, he would be under arrest.
Are, uh   are we certain that you want the Gamin' Control Board eyeballin' your record and your gangster pals like Nicky Santoro?
I think you're way out of line talkin' to me like that. What you're sayin' is libelous, and you're in no position to challenge my expertise. I went way out of my way to be very helpful and courteous to that kid. He's weak, he's incompetent. He jeopardizes the whole place. There's not much more I can do for him.
You have got me there. Old Don is as useless as tits on a boar. But, he is my brotherinlaw, and I would look on it as a personal favor if you'd think some more on hirin' him back.
I can't do that. And I appreciate the fact that he's your brotherin law, and I do want to help you and I like to do favors, and I know who you are, but I cannot do that.
Well, could there be any position... further down the trough?
I'm sorry, I can't do anything. He's too incompetent. And the bottom line is, he cannot be trusted.
Okay, thanks. Um... you know, that's it. I'm sorry.
Mr Rothstein. Your people never will understand the way it works out here. You're all just our guests. But you act like you're at home. Let me tell you somethin', partner... you ain't home. But that's where we're gonna send you if it harelips the Governor. Thank you for your time.
No problem. Sorry.
You bet.
...by the only kind of guys that can actually get you that kind of money: sixtytwo million, sevenhundred thousand dollars. I don't know all the details.
Matter of fact...
But it's in the desert where lots of the town's problems are solved.
Got a lot of holes in the desert, and a lot of problems are buried in those holes. Except you gotta do it right. I mean, you gotta have the hole already dug before you show up with a package in the trunk. Otherwise you're talkin' about a halfhour or fortyfive minutes of diggin'. And who knows who's gonna be comin' along in that time? Before you know it, you gotta dig a few more holes. You could be there all fuckin' night.
...give him a shot at runnin' a casino and he tries to talk you out of it.
You know, I don't know if I could do this even if I wanted to. The Gaming Commission would never give me a license. I have at least two dozen gambling and bookmaking pinches on me.
You know, havin' some fun with it, shit like that.
Where the hell did you learn how to deal?
He bet like a fuckin' brain surgeon.
Place the checks properly. That's the way you do it.
I'll take Columbia for twenty.
If his girlfriend was knocked up.
Yeah, we made a great pair. I made book and Nicky made sure we always collected. The old men loved us. And why not? They all made money with us.
They payin'?
How did Nicky collect?
It was eight. Ace... tell him the line on the Bear's game.
Eight.
If he don't know, nobody knows. Told you it was eight.
What's that? You hear? You hear a little girl, Frankie? You hear a little girl, Ace? Is that a little fuckin' girl?! What happened to the fuckin' tough guy? Told my friend stick it up his fuckin' ass?! Huh?! Huh?!
Wait a sec, Nicky, Nicky, Nicky. Ta take it easy.
While I was tryin' to figure out why the guy was sayin' what he was sayin', Nicky just hit him. No matter how big a guy might be, Nicky would take him on. You beat Nicky with fists, he comes back with a bat. You beat him with a knife, he comes back with a gun. And you beat him with a gun, you better kill him, because he'll keep comin' back and back until one of you is dead.
Listen...
But nobody had to take care of Nicky.
You find any cash in there, we'll whack it up with you.
I mean, he took care of himself only too well. And that's why every badge back home wanted to nail him.
...nobody interfered with the fuckin' skim.
Hey.
Okay, Sammy.
Somethin', huh?
Yeah.
Ginger.
Holy shit, what've you been doin' out here?
Honey, come here.
After we ate, we left Jennifer and Ginger alone and we took a ride to talk. And then... he hit me with it.
What do you think about me movin' out here? What's the matter? You got a problem with that?
No, of course not.
You mean, I have your permission?
Sure, you have my permission. But I  I just gotta tell you it's no joke out here. It's no joke, you know? You gotta keep a low profile. It's not like back home. Right off the bat, they don't like guys like us. And this sheriff's a real cowboy. Even the coppers aren't afraid to bury people out in the desert here.
I don't care. I want to get away from back home for a while. I'm tired of that shit back there. Look at this place. It's made of money. You know what the best part is? Nobody's gonna know what we're doin'! There's nobody here to see us! Everybody's back home.
Nick, I gotta tell you, I got pinched twice for no reason. You really gotta be careful. I'm running a licensed place. Everything's legit.
Don't worry about it. I'm not gonna do anything. What am I gonna do? I'm especially not gonna involve you in anything.
But I saw it another. I saw it as untouched. I mean, they had bookies, pimps and drug dealers I could shake down. Who the fuck were they gonna run to? So, I started getting everybody in line. Best of all, for the first time in my life, I figured out a way not to lose.
Yeah, he had a foolproof scheme, all right. It wasn't very scientific but it worked. When he won, he collected. When he lost, he told the bookies to go fuck themselves. What were they gonna do? Muscle Nicky? Nicky was the muscle.
Ohh!
And, Nicky being Nicky, he made his presence known.
Especially at the casino, where he definitely did not work, people got the message.
Me? That's why the bosses sent me out here. They wanted me to make sure none of the other crews robbed the joint. Like these two fuckin' balloonheads over here [EDDY and JERRY]. They were gonna try and bang us out of two hundred fuckin' grand? Yeah, right, I'm sure.
When I married Ginger I knew all the stories, but I didn't give a fuck. 'I'm Sam Rothstein,' I said. 'I can change her.'
It was typical Ace. He invited the biggest people in town and he knew they'd show. Because he knew they all wanted somethin' from him. With Ace, nobody ever got a free ride. Even Ginger. With her 
...Nicky was dreamin' his own kind of Vegas.
To begin, I put money out on the streets, chargin' three points a week. You know  juice to the fuckin' dealers.
...the next thing I did, I started bustin' out highstakes poker players.
It was so obvious. I mean, all of Nicky's halfassed mechanics, they were real signal happy.
And I didn't want any of those agents near my place.
Four aces, Doc.
I mean, Nicky's a made guy and I'm not. I can't do that.
Be careful. Gaming agents are all over the place.
So, I'm lucky. I'm not allowed to get lucky in this place?
You been lucky all week. They're lookin' to nail ya.
No, I didn't know that. But you know what he did?
No.
He insulted Billy. And then I walked over to him politely...
...and he tells me to go fuck myself.
What?
Then he called me a faggot.
So what do you think I do? I threw that cocksucker out.
What? Ho Hey, come here.
If he does it again, he's out for good. I don't care what it is, Nick, I'm gonna ha I'll  I'll never let him in the place again.
I'm sorry about this. Really.
All right, Ace?
Okay.
Thanks, pal.
But I'll tell you, he knew how to bring in the crowds. He knew all the fuckin' angles. He brought over the whole 'Femme Fatale' show from Paris. But he forgot how lazy them European dancin' broads can get. I mean, he had to weigh 'em in once a week to make sure they didn't blow up like fuckin' balloons.
You're still eight pounds over. What's the reason for this?
Hey, I gotta give the guy credit. He does the most obvious thing. This is the only town in the country where a bookie joint is legit, so, why not take advantage, right? So... he took bookie joints off the street and then opened them up inside the casino. Well, within a few years, by doin' all of this, he had every casino on the Strip trying to copy off him.
Between...
You better watch yourself. There's a lot of heat on you already.
Why, somebody's complaining?
I'm  I'm hearin' things from security. They're all excops. The Sheriff's lookin' to bust your balls. They want to put you in the Black Book.
That Black Book is a bunch of bullshit. They got two names in there for the whole country and one of them is still Al Capone.
Bullshit or no bullshit, they put you in that book, you're gonna be in a lot of trouble. You will not be able to walk into the casino. I'm tellin' you.
What am I doin' out here? I'm tryin' to make a livin', that's all.
I'm just tellin' you. Don't say I didn't warn you.
All right.
Well, it wasn't long before what I was afraid was gonna happen, happened. Nicky managed to get himself banned from every casino in Las Vegas, and from then on, I couldn't be seen talkin' to him anywhere in Vegas, or even near it.
What the fuck is that supposed to mean?
' ...detrimental to gaming. And he will be ejected from any casino in Las Vegas... and the casinos can be fined as much as a hundred thousand every time he shows up.' Do you believe this shit?
Yeah, I believe it. You got banned.
Motherfucker. Unsavory fuckin'... Is there any way around this?
Nope, there's no way.
Let's say... for instance... I want to go in the restaurant which happens to be in the casino... to get one of those sandwiches I like?
Forget it. You can't even set foot in the parking lot. That's how serious it is.
In other words, I'm fucked.
In so many words, yes.
It just didn't sink into his head about the Black Book and what it meant. Not being able to go into a casino is just one thing, but being in this book etched your name into the brains of every cop and FBI agent in the state. I mean, you're listed in there with Al Capone. But Nicky didn't care.
I gotta do somethin'. I gotta do somethin'. They ain't gettin' rid of me. They're not gettin' rid of me. I'm staying here. Fuck 'em. Fuck 'em.
Yeah, Nicky loved restaurants. He was a real restaurant buff. And over the years, he always made money with them.
Hey, Rich.
 no matter where he was or what he was doing, he always went home to make breakfast for his son, Nicky Boy.
Here, let's put a little of this on for you. I know you like this. A little butter, right, not a lot?
Hello.
Listen...
No, no it's okay.
It's impossible. It's booked up, and you gotta make a reservation. It's...
...very difficult to get in.
Well, it's okay. I'll use the service entrance. I'll see you at nine.
Hey, Ace.
Hey.
You think he got the point?
What're you doin'? He's a square guy, for chrissakes. You can't treat him like that. He's gonna run to the FBI.
Fuck the FBI! That prick's been dodging me for three weeks. And what is it with you? All of a sudden, you're tryin' to tell me what to do all the time.
I'm not tryin' to tell you what to do. But you were way out of line, Nick. What're you doin'? Where's your head?
Where's my head? Where's your fuckin' balls? Huh? You know I'm tryin' to put somethin' really big together out here. You know what I'm talkin' about, huh? You know! If you're actin' like this now, how can I depend on you? There's a lot of things gonna change out here. And if you wanna be there with me, Sammy, you're gonna have to go my fuckin' way.
Listen, Nick, you gotta understand my situation. I'm responsible for thousands of people. I got a hundred million a year goin' through the place. It's all over, I'm gonna tell you, it's all over, if I don't get that license. And believe me, if it goes bad for me, it's gonna go bad for a lot of people, you understand?
Yeah, forget about your fuckin' license. I plant my own flag out here, you ain't gonna need a fuckin' license. You know, I don't know what it is, Sammy, but the more I talk to you, the more I feel like you just don't wanna go along with me, is that it?
No, I don't wanna come 
You should say so.
I don't wanna come along with you.
Just say so.
I'll be honest with you.
All right, fine.
I don't wanna be involved in anything you're talkin' about...
Fine.
...okay? I just wanna run a square joint. That's it. I just want my license. I want everything nice and quiet. That's it.
You mean, quiet like this: 'I'm the boss.' That's quiet?
That's all taken out of context. Okay.
Yeah, that's out of context. Okay.
I have no control over that. Ronnie and Billy were right there. They'll tell you exactly what happened.
Well, back home they don't know about fuckin' control. That looks bad.
Looks bad? I'm gonna tell you what looks bad.
Yeah?
Every time you're on television I get mentioned. That looks bad. That looks bad.
What the fuck happened to you? Will you tell me?
What happened to me? What happened to you?
Yeah.
You lost your control.
I lost control?
Yes, you lost your control.
Look at you. You're fuckin' walkin' around like John Barrymore.
All right.
A fuckin' pink robe and a fuckin'...
All right.
...uh, uh, cigarette holder. I'm  I lost control?!
Yeah.
You know, I didn't want to bring this up, but you have treating a lot of people with a lot of disrespect. Even your own wife.
My wife?
Yeah.
Now, what does she have to do with all this?
Well, she comes to see me. She was upset about a lot of things, especially that whole fuckin' Diamond  that Lester Diamond incident.
All of a sudden, you're the shoulder to cry on? Did you at least tell her about your little role in that whole situation?
No, I didn't. What good would that do? That's not the fuckin' point.
Listen, I would 
The point is that she's upset. She's  and you got a fuckin' problem.
I  I would appreciate it if you'd stay out of my personal life, okay? You wouldn't like it if I did it to you.
Hey, she came to talk...
Please...
...to me.
...don't do it to me...
She came to talk to me...
Okay?
And I  what was I supposed to do, throw her out?
Jujust stay away from her. It's none of your business, okay? There are certain things you don't do, and you know that.
It's none of my business?
That's right, yeah.
A week ago it was my business, now it's none of my business. In other words, when you need me to take care of somethin' for you, then you need me.
Yeah, that's right, the way you need me to vouch for you as a citizen and get you out of one of your jams. I'm gonna have to straighten out what you just did with this guy.
This guy is gonna run to the FBI.
Your fuckin' head is getting' bigger than your casino. That's your problem, pal.
I knew what he wanted, and I didn't want any part of it.
Fuckin' walking around with a big head. You better check yourself...
Nicky wanted to take over. He wanted to go after Gaggi, go after the skim, go after everything and everybody.
Nicky was questioned in two dozen murders, but they always had to let him go. There were never any witnesses.
The coppers blamed me for everything that went wrong out here, and I mean every little fuckin' thing too.
Peekaboo, you fucks, you.
I see you, you motherfuckers.
The problem was, Nicky was not only bringin' heat on himself, but on me too. The FBI watched every move he made. But he didn't care. He just didn't care.
...on the line and this guy's out havin' the time of his life. He has every cop in the state watchin' him, and he's out playin' golf.
Practice enough this week, you prick?
And at the...
Yeah.
Meet me at three.
What  what, Caesar's?
No, a...
...hundred yards further down the road.
Why?
Don't ask questions. Just be there.
Where the fuck you get off talkin' to people about me behind my back? Goin' over my head?
What people?
What people! What'd you think, I wasn't gonna find out?
I don't even know what you're talkin' about, Nick.
No? You said I'm bringin' heat on you?! I gotta listen to people because of your fuckin' shit?! You're ordering me out?! You better get your own fuckin' army, pal!
I didn't do anything. I mean, I didn't order you or anybody... I only told Andy Stone that you had a lot of heat on you, and that was a problem.
You want me to get out of my own fuckin' town?!
Yeah, I said I  let the bullshit blow over for a while so I can run the casino. Anything goes wrong with the casino, it's my ass. It's not yours, it's my ass.
Oh, I don't know whether you know this or not, but you only have your fuckin' casino because I made that possible!
I 
I'm what counts out here! Not your fuckin' country clubs or your fuckin' TV shows! And what the fuck are you doin' on TV anyhow?!
What are you 
You know I get calls from back home every fuckin' day?! They think you went batshit!
I'm only on TV because I gotta be able to hang around the casino. You understand that. You know that. Come on.
Your fuckin' ass! You could have had the food and beverage job without goin' on television! You wanted to go on TV.
Yeah, I did want to go on TV. That way I have a forum. I can fight back. I'm known. People see me. They know they can't fuck around with me like they could if I was an unknown. That's right.
You're makin' a big fuckin' spectacle of yourself.
Me?! I wouldn't even be in this situation if it wasn't for you. You brought down so much fuckin' heat on me. I mean, every time I meet somebody here, the big question is do I know you.
Oh, sure. Now you want to blame your fuckin' license on me, is that it?
No, it  it  Nicky, when you asked me if you could come out here, what did I tell you? I mean, you asked me, and I knew you were going to come out no matter what I said, but what did I tell you? Do you remember what I told...
Back 
...you? Do you remember what I told you?
Back  Back up, back up a fuckin' minute here. One minute. I asked you?! When the fuck did I ever ask you if I could come out here?! Get this through your head, you 
You never  ?
Get this through your head, you Jew motherfucker, you. You only exist out here because of me! That's the only reason! Without me, you, personally, every fuckin' wiseguy skell [Skell: the lowest form of wiseguy  a drunken bum] around'll take a piece of your fuckin' Jew ass! Then where you gonna go?! You're fuckin' warned! Don't ever go over my fuckin' head again! You motherfucker, you!
What are you doin'? You gotta get out of here!
Hey, Sammy, tell this Jew motherfucker over here to pay that marker.
Nicky, Nicky, you're not listenin' to me. I'm here to help you. What's the matter with you? You're gonna bury us both.
Just give me the money. Fuckin' give me the fuckin' money, Sammy.
I'm gonna okay you ten and get you even, and that's it. Then you got to get out of here before the cops and the newspapers are all over you.
Ginger called me.
Yeah.
I just told you. She called me.
And what'd she want?
She was afraid to call you.
Yeah, she's with that cocksucker again... and they got Amy.
I know. Why didn't you come to me? I mean, this is family, it ain't business. Meanwhile, you make calls back home. Sammy, it makes us look bad out here, you know what I mean? Back and forth, this one and that one, and, in the meantime, she's gone anyway. Am I right?
I don't know. What am I gonna do with this woman? I don't know... She's drivin' me fuckin' crazy.
I think if you, uh, okay it, you know, assure her that she's gonna be all right, she'll come back.
She's driving me fuckin' crazy.
Well, once you get her here, you think about it, you know? But get the kid back here. She wants to come back. That's the, uh, that's the main thing here. You want your kid, don't you? Huh?
Hello.
Sammy.
Yeah, uh, who's this?
It's me.
Nick?
Yeah, what are you doin'? You okay?
No, I'm not okay.
How'd you know I was here?
Well...
...uh, you know, I just wanted to talk to you a minute.
Well...
...Ginger's missing and she tied Amy up and she locked her in her room. I gotta find her. I don't know where the hell she is.
Yeah? Well, listen, Ginger's over here at the Leaning Tower with me.
She's there with you? She's there with you?
Yeah, she's here.
I'll be right there.
Ace don't... listen, don't... don't make a scene, all right?
I want to just talk. I want to talk to that Irish bitch.
She didn't know who to turn to. She... she didn't know where to turn. She was tryin' to save your marriage.
Yeah? Nicky, I want to talk to that fuckin' bitch.
Hey, be fuckin' nice. Calm. Be nice. Don't fuck up in here.
Oh. Have a good day at school.
Okay.
Hello? Hello! Ginger.
Help, Daddy!
Amy! Amy, open the door!
I can't! I'm tied!
Whwh 
Dad!
What happened? What happened? Who did this to you?
Mommy.
I'm gonna get a knife and cut you loose, honey, I'll 
Oh, no, please, please.
When did this happen, honey?
I don't know.
You don't know? What time did your mother do this? When did she leave?
I don't know.
Ohhh...
Now this is just a signature card.
So, once she signs those papers, she'll be the only person to have total access to the box? No one else, including myself?
That's right.
Sam, let me ask you a question. You must really trust your wife.
Yeah, sure I do. Why?
No, thathat's good. It's just unusual. To tell you the truth, so many of my clients don't.
Well...
But one thing I could never understand, was that she could have everything under control, except for her old pimp boyfriend, Lester Diamond.
Look, Gin, you know I got other people in this. I got partners. But I want you to understand that I am lookin' out for you in this thing. Okay? You're going to get yours back... and you're gonna get it back first. Okay?
Yeah.
He was a moocher, a card cheat, a countryclub golf hustler. A scumbag... chasing dentists for a few bucks.
She's my wife. Look at me. You did know that, didn't you? You knew that she's my wife? Huh? Hey, look at me.
Yeah, yeah. I know that.
You do? Yeah? Well, if you ever come back again... ever... to take her money... next time bring a pistol. That way you got a chance. Be a man, don't be a fuckin' pimp. Now, you want to do me a favor? Get out of here. I want to be alone with my wife. Get the fuck up and get out of here.
Okay.
You fuckin' piece of shit.
Hey, that's just fuckin'  That's bullshit. You know, you know, what the fuck?
M Uh, Mr. and Mrs. Rothstein?
Hey, little Dale Evans.
Hello.
Hello.
Yeah, is this Lester? This is Sam...
...Rothstein. I want to talk to Ginger. Put her on the phone.
She's not here, Sam.
Lester...
...listen to me very carefully. I want to talk to Ginger. I want my kid back. I want her put on a plane immediately.
I know she's there. Don't fuck around with me.
Uh, I'm not. Sam, I wouldn't...
You understand? Put her on the fuckin' phone.
Sam, I  I don't know where she is, okay?
So, llllisten, I te I te I tell you  can I call you back in a few minutes?
702 472 1862.
Mmhm. 1862. Okay, good. I'll call you right b
Right away.
I'll call you right back.
Right back.
You got it. Schmuck. All right. I just bought us a few minutes. Want to get back at this prick?
Even after a little vacation, they hassled him at the airport.
Excuse me.
I mean, Frank Marino was there to meet him, but so were the cops. This time they wanted to pinch him for some diamond burglary in Antwerp.
...stupid things.
Watch it, partner, watch it!
The worst was Blue.
...been right, but who knows?
Jesus Christ! What gun? He's got a fuckin' hero sandwich here.
No, you're not calm.
...I will let her in the house for five minutes if you gentlemen will escort her out if she happens not to want to leave. Because I don't  I 
Yeah, I don't want her in there more than a few more minutes.
No, it's  it'll just be a couple of minutes. We got other things to do too, you know. He'll hurry her up. How's everything else besides this?
Fine, fine. How's your family?
Not bad, not bad. In fact, uh, my wife's pregnant again.
Oh, good.
Yeah.
Congratulations.
Okay, Randy. Thank you.
All right, take care.
Stop 
Wait, hold on a second.
Hey!
Hold on a second.
Look, look. You can't stop her for speeding? I mean, look what the hell she's doing.
Speeding?
As far as the world was concerned Andy Stone, the head of the Teamsters' Pension Fund, was a legitimate guy.
This is a very auspicious occasion.
A powerful man.
Philip, if you would rise.
He even played golf with the President.
On behalf of the Teamsters' Pension Fund, it is my pleasure to present to you . . .
But Andy also took orders. And when he was told to give a pension fund loan to Philip Green...
...this check for $62,700,000 for the new Tangiers.
You don't have to have a license to work in a casino. All you gotta do is apply for one. The state law says you can work in a casino while they're processing your application. They got a tenyear backlog.
But what happens when they do find out?
Why would they want to find out? We're puttin' a hundred million into this desert here. Why would they want to lock us out? And besides, they'll never find out. All you gotta do is keep changing your job title. Like, uh, from Casino Executive to Food and Beverage Chairman. And what happens it, they take your application, they put it at the bottom of the pile. I know guys workin' there for thirty years, don't have a license.
It's a tough proposition, Andy. You, you know, if I did it, I'd have to run it my way.
You got it.
I'm serious. No interference.
Nobody's gonna interfere with your running the casino. I guarantee it.
He's on all night, screamin' about how he's gonna take his damn lawsuit all the way to the Supreme Court. He really must be crazy. He's gonna go to Washington with this? He's out of his fuckin' mind.
It's a pity in this...
First of all, what they did was totally unconstitutional. We're already on the list to be heard before the Supreme Court of the United States later this year.
These guys back home don't give a fuck about the Supreme Court and any of this bullshit! They want things to quiet down. They want you to walk away from 
Walk away? Andy, you can't be serious. How can I walk away? Don't you see what's goin' on here? Don't you see what's at stake?
The old man said, 'Maybe your friend should give in.' And when the old man says 'maybe', that's like a papal bull. Not only should you quit, you should run!
Know what my problem is? Every time they mention my name in the papers, these cocksuckers, they mention Nicky, too. How the fuck does that help? I mean, the heat he brought down is murder! We had a police department who was cooperative. He's pissed them off so much now that nobody can make a move anymore. I mean, what do you do about that?
What do you propose?
I don't know, he doesn't listen to me. Maybe he should... get lost for a while. Take a vacation. Would that be so bad?
They ain't sendin' Nicky nowhere.
All right, look, if he took a break, it would just give everybody some time to maneuver. That's all I'm saying. It's all that I'm saying.
I would forget about the maneuver. I would just get out.
I can't do that.
Hi, Ace.
Hello, Senator.
Hey, I need a room. Need a room.
Good to see ya. William would you...
I was never  I was never your guest at the Tangiers.
You were never my guest?!
That's right.
I never comped you?! I don't comp you at least two or three times a month at the Tangiers?!
Uh, I  I'd... I'd like to answer  answer that at this time.
Liar.
Mr Rothstein is being very typical to this point.
He's lying.
The only time I was at the Tangiers was when I had dinner with Barney Greenstein.
Was I at that dinner? Just tell me 
You were wandering around.
Was I at that dinner?
You were wandering around.
Was I at that dinner?
You were wandering around.
Was I at that dinner?
You were in the m You were in the building.
I was in the building!
You know damn well I was at that dinner, and you swore to me that I would have a fair hearing at that dinner! Did you not?! Did you not?! Well, tell me I was at least at the dinner! Aallow me that much. Give me that much at least!
Yes, you were.
Thank you.
...he did what he was told.
I mean, the guy is history as far as I'm concerned. History.
But you can't just fire him. Webb's his brotherinlaw. He's County Commissioner.
So what? Everybody out here with cowboy boots is a fuckin' county commissioner or related to a county commissioner. I'm fuckin' sick of it.
This is his state. His uncle's Chief Judge. His brotherinlaw runs the County Commission. I don't know how many other relatives he's got in town. There's gotta be a way to work him back in.
Phil, I can understand. You're in the finances, you're upstairs, but you are not on the floor. I got thousands of players. I got five hundred dealers. They're all lookin' to rob me blind, twentyfour hours a day. I have to let them know I'm watching all the details, all the time; that there is not one single thing I will not catch as I am over here.
Look at yours.
What?
Look at that. Look at this. There's nothin'... look how many blueberries your muffin has and how many mine has. Yours is falling apart. I have nothing.
What are you talking about?
It's like everything else in this place. You don't do it yourself, it never gets done.
...was gonna stop what came up next at the casino.
I can't believe you're doing this.
It turned out Phil Green, Mr Integrity, had a partner nobody knew about... and when she showed up and started demanding some money from the Tangiers...
Why are you doing this to me?
I'm a little in shock, quite frankly...
Now, instead of the cops only lookin' at Nicky, they started looking at Green too. And he was supposed to be our squeaky...
Crash ain't there. He never gets back till four or five
Where does he go?
Well, I'd rather not say.
They called me up to the Show and I wanta tell Crash goodbye.
Goddamn, that's great! Jesus! Listen, Crash don't like anybody to know it but Most nights he goes down to, you know, down to Niggertown. To Sandy's... the whorehouse.
He goes to a whorehouse every night?
Don't tell him I told youhe'd break my neck.
What'you want, kid?
Jim looking for somebody.
Who ain't?
Looking for Crash Davis.
Ain't here.
I'm Nuke LaLoosh. With the Bulls.
Your breaking ball's getting better but ya need a change up.
Where's Ebby?
Ain't he warning up?
No. The guy's professional debut and he forgets about it.
Better find our bonus baby, eh?
Little high.
C'mon big 'un, you're okay...
He walked eighteen?!
It's a league record.
Struck out eighteen...
League record. And he hit the Radio Announcer, a Sportswriter, and the Bull Mascot twicealso league records Joe, the guy's got some serious shit.
Ohyeah. I shoulda throwed a slider. Damn, Crash, how're ya?
I'm Joe Riggins. Sit down
He's got a million dollar arm and a five cent head.
we had the gun on him tonight the last five pitches he threw were faster than the first five. 96 miles an hour, 98, 97, 97. 97. He's got the best young arm I've seen in 30 years.
But he ain't quite sure which plane he's on, y'know what I mean...
You been around, you're smart, you're professional, you know what it takes We want you to mature the kid.
Sears sucks, Crash, I tried it once. Sold Lady Kenmoresit's nasty, nasty work.
Even if it's the Carolina League this is a chance to play everyday.
You guys lollygag the ball around the infield, ya lollygag you're way to first, ya lollygag in an' outta the dugout. You know what that makes ya Lollygaggers. What's our record, Larry?
We're eight and sixteen.
Eight and sixteen?! How'd we ever win eight? Jose, what's this sign?
Eight and twentyfour.
Eight and twentyfour! How'd we ever win 8 games?
It's a miracle.
Look, guysI'm a man, I got needs too. I understand this party but... sex is the one thing you can get further behind in and catch up faster than anything I know. There's a baseball lesson in there somewhere. Where's Crash?
Patkin was a tribute to baseball...
...and one helluva guy.
Jesuswhat's got into Nuke?
I heard he's wearing women's underwearand he's breathing through his pingala nostril.
I'm getting too old for this game.
Nuke's overthrowing tonight, he don't look loose. Anything bothering him?
He said his chakras were jammed and he was breathing out of the wrong nostril.
Okay...
What the hell's going on out there?
It's a damn convention.
Check it out.
The organization wants to make a change...now that Nuke's gone they wanta bring up some young catcher...
Some kid hittin' .300 in Lynchburg ...probably a bust.
I put in a word for you with the organizationtold 'em I thought you'd make a fine minor league manager someday...Might be an opening at Salem next year
Hi, Jimmy. Want a ride?
Have you accepted Jesus Christ as your personal savior?
No.
Can I give you my testimony?
You can do anything you want. Hop in.
Well tell 'em, honey.
We're getting married.
I gotta go now, Dad.
I was thinking I could fly up and spend a week in the Big Leagues with youhelp you get comfortable.
No. If I screw up, I wanta do it alone. I'll call.
We'll be praying for you.
Dadif my curveball is hanging, God ain't gonna help me.
We'll pray anyway.
If it makes you and mom feel better, go for it. I gotta run
Step outside, pal.
Love to
I don't believe in fighting.
Pussy.
Take the first shot at me.
I ain't hitting a man first.
Hit me in the chest with this...
I'd kill ya.
From what I hear you couldn't hit a bull in the ass with a slingshot
Don't try me.
Throw it. C'mon, right in the chest.
No way.
C'mon, Meat. You can't hit me 'cause you're starting to think about it already, you're starting to think how embarrassing it'll be to miss, how all these people would laugh. C'mon, Rookshow me that million dollar arm 'cause I'm getting a good idea about the five cent head
We fight, she gets the clown how's that happen?
Shut upI like this song... April in Paris, this is a feeling, No one can ever reprieve...
She's playing with my mind.
It's a damn easy thing to play with.
Who you calling a "boy"?
See ya at the yard, Meat.
Crash Davis?
The Crash Davis. ) And you, Larry Hockett, should recognize me 'cause five years ago in the Texas League when you were pitching for El Paso and I was hitting cleanup for Shreveport, you hung a curve on an 02 pitch of a 32 game in bottom of the 8th and I tattooed it over the Goodyear Tire sign, beat you 43 and I got a free wheel alignment from Goodyear.
I'm too old for this shit. Why the hell am I back in "A" ball?
'Cause of Ebby Calvin LaLoosh. The Big Club's got a hundred grand in him
We want you to room with him on the road and stay on his case all year. He can go all the way.
And where can I go?
You can keep going to the ballpark and keep gettin' paid to do it. Beats hell outta working at Sears.
I don't know. I haven't caught anything yet.
What're you thinking about out here, Nuke?
Yeah, Skip, you wanted to see me?
Crash, shut the door.
Hey! What're you guys doing here stealing my girl?
Now, Nuke, would I do a thing like that? Hey kids, this is the great Ebby Calvin "Nuke" LaLoosh.
Drive off your back leg. You pitch with your legs as much as your arms
I thought I was
Don't think.
Fun? What's he know about fun? Why's he calling for a curveball? I wanta bring heat.
Shake off the pitch. Throw what you wanta.
Why you shaking me off?
I wanta throw the heater to announce my presence with authority.
"To announce your fucking presence with authority"? This guy's a first ball fastball hitter. He's looking for heat.
But he ain't seen my heat
Awright, meat, give him your heat.
Fastball.
Why's he always call me "Meat"? I'm the guy driving a Porsche.
Guy hit the shit outta that one, eh?
Well, I held it like an egg.
An' he scrambled the son of a bitch. Having fun yet?
I'm having a blast. God, that sucker teed off on it just like he knew I was gonna throw a fastball.
He did know.
How?
I told him.
Oh she may get wooly, women do get wooly, because of all the stress...
Gimme that.
How come you don't like me?
'Cause you don't respect yourself, which is your problem, but you don't respect the gameand that's my problem. You got a gift.
What do I got?
A gift. When you were a baby the gods reached down and turned your left arm into a thunderbolt.
You got a Hall of Fame arm but you're pissing it away.
I ain't pissing nothing awayI got a Porsche already. A 944 with A.C. and a quadraphonic Blaupunkt.
You don't need a quadraphonic Blaupunktyou need a curve ball. In the Show, everybody can hit the fastball.
You been in the Majors?
Yep.
You could be one of those guys but you don't give a fuck, Meat.
God damn it I'm sick of you calling me "Meat"! You wanta step outside!
This is from Tony for the rainout. C'mon, man, let's go to the party.
Naw...
"Naw"? There's ice skaters coming! You ever made love to an ice skater?
By the dozen. Holiday on Ice, Ice Capades, Ice Follies I'm through with one night stands.
You're through with one night stands?! What do you want?
I just wanta play everyday despite small nagging injuriesand go home to a woman who appreciates how full of crap I truly am.
You're weird, manI want a ice skater real bad.
Go for it.
If I get laid, you won't tell Annie?
I won't have to.
Party without me.
Godwhat a Big League move.
Can I ask you something?
What?
What would you think of a pitcher who wore women's panties?
If he had a good breaking ball, I'd respect the shit outta him.
I was playing naked.
I know, I knowI have that dream all the time. We're almost home.
Annie says her panties will keep one side of my brain occupied while I'm on the mound, thus keeping my brain slightly off center, which is where it should be for artists and pitchers. She also said I should throw whatever pitches you call for.
Annie's a smart lady.
I was great, eh?
Your fastball was up and your curveball was hangingin the Show they woulda ripped you.
Can't you let me enjoy the moment?
The moment's over. If this guy starts me off with a breaking ball, I'm going downtown
Hey, I'm cruisin', manwhat're you doing out here?!
I want you to throw this one at the bat rack.
Why?! I'm finally throwin' the damn thing where I want to.
It'll keep the fear of God in the hitters. Trust me.
You're the boss.
You told him I was throwing a deuce, right?
Yep. He really crushed that dinger, didn't he. Musta gone 450 feet...damn...
I love winning, Crash, you hear me? I love It. Teach me everything.
It's time you started working on your interviews.
What do I gotta do?
Learn your cliches. Study them. Know them. They're your friends.
Write this down. "We gotta play 'em one day at a time."
Boring.
Of course. That's the point. "I'm just happy to be here and hope I can help the ballclub."
Jesus.
Write, write"I just wanta give It my best shot and, Good Lord willing, things'll work out."
"...Good Lord willing, things'll work out."
Yep. So how's Annie?
She's getting steamed 'cause I'm still rechanneling my sexual energymaybe I should cave in and sleep with her once just to calm her down. What'ya think?
You outta your mind? If you give in now you might start losing. Never fuck with a winning streak.
What's wrong?
I'm nervousmy old man's here.
Anybody says anything bad about Millie, I'll break his neck.
Hey, guys, I got a game to pitch.
Club's expanding its roster to finish the season
Shut up. I'm playing. Oh you won't regret it, young girls don't forget it, lost in their own wilderness ... But it's all so easyJust try a little tenderness...
I'm going to the Show.
Then go.
I'm trying to thank you.
Let go of me!
Settle what?
C ' mon!
I don't wanta fight you, I wanta thank you. Let's have a drink and forget this
God damn it, you fucking virgin prickstep outside.
C'mon, we got nothin' to fight about.
You fuck!
Why am I a fuck?
Why are you a fuck? 'Cause you got talent. I got brains. But you got talent! You're God damn left arm is worth a million dollars a year. All my limbs put together are worth 7 cents a poundand that's for science and dog meat.
You're a great catcher.
Come over here into the light so I can kick your ass.
No.
Okay, I'll kick your ass there.
I'll take you back to the hotel.
You know what the difference Is between hitting .250 and hitting .300? 1 got it figured out. Twentyfive hits a year in 500 at bats is 50 points. Okay? There's 6 months in a season, that's about 25 weeksyou get one extra flare a weekjust onea gork, a ground ball with eyes, a dying quail just one more dying quail a week and you're in Yankee Stadium!
Nuke...tell me something. Did you hit me with your right or your left?
My right.
Good. Good. That's terrific...
What?
If ya get in a fight with some asshole, never hit his with your pitching hand. ya might get injured. That's another lesson for yanow quit fucking around and help me up.
Sorry about last night.
Forget it.
I have been known, on occasion, to howl at the moon. D'you understand that?
No.
You will. Look, Nukethese Big League hitters are gonna light you up like a pin ball machine for awhile don't worry about it. Be cocky and arrogant even when you're getting beat. That's the secret. You gotta play this game with fear and arrogance.
Fear and ignorance.
No. Fear and arrogance, you, hayseed, not ignorance!
I know. I just like to see you get all worked up.
Well, I got Annie all warmed up for ya... She's just waiting for you to show up, y'know...
I don't need a crazy woman in my life.
Maybe you do. Y'know I'm starting to like this gamebaseball's a helluva good way to make a living.
It's the best, Nuke...the absolute fucking best.
Yeah, thanks for everything.
Nuke Good luck.
You too...Meat.
I got him on the knee!
You missed him!
God damn It, Jack, he still ain't touched the plate.
Don't bump me.
It was a cocksucking call!
Did you call me a cocksucker?
No! I said It was a cocksucking call and you can't run me for that!
You missed the tag!
You spit on me!
I didn't spit on you!
You're in the wrong business, Jackyou're SearsRoebuck material!
You're close, Crash, you want me to run you? I'll run you!
You want me to call you a cocksucker?!
Try it! Go ahead. Call me a cocksucker!
Beg me!
Call me a cocksucker and you're outta here!
Beg me again!
Call me a cocksucker and you're outta here!
You're a cocksucker!
You're outta here!
What's that?
Chicken bone cross take the curse off this bat and bring me hits.
You a God damn witch?
Yes. A switch hitting witch. Very common in Puerto Rico.
Will that work for me?
If you believe in Voodoo.
I'm 0 for 16! Gimme some of that shit.
No, that is not belief. That is desperation.
C'mon, God damn it, gimme some!
Thanks for the noteyou're right, I wasn't bending my back.
You got a live arm there.
Ebby Calvin LaLoosh.
You need a nickname.
That's what I been telling everybody! Wanta dance?
Wellyou boys stopped fighting yet? Are you pals now? Good. I love a little macho male bonding I think it's sweet even if it's probably latent homosexuality being "rechanneled" but I believe in "rechanneling" so who cares, right? Shall we go to my place?
Which one of us?
Oh both of you, of course...
Is somebody gonna go to bed with somebody or what?
You're a regular nuclear meltdown, honeyslow down.
No ballplayer ever said "no" to a date with me.
Well shit, then, let's fuck.
No, no, no. Put it back on and take it off slowly.
Jesus, what kinda broad are you?
When you know how to make love, you'll know how to pitch. Shh. I love this part.
No, no, honey... first the shoes and socks.
The socks? It's cold in here.
You think Dwight Gooden leaves his socks on?
Sweetie, have you ever heard of Walt Whitman?
Who's he play for?
Well, he sort of pitches for the Cosmic AllStars.
Never heard of 'em.
Goodthen listen. "I sing the body electric. The armies of those I love engirth me and I engirth them"
We gonna fuck or what?
Shh, shh... "They will not let me off till I go with them, respond to them, and discorrupt them and charge them"
Ebby's told me a lot about you.
Uh oh... Can I offer you some coffee?
He's a good student.
We were worried that Ebby might get involved with the wrong crowd in professional baseballwe're so pleased, he met a Christian woman.
Praise the Lord, eh?
Let's have a quick word of prayer, right here, to thank the Lord for all this
Oh let's not...
God bless you.
She will, Mr. LaLoosh, she will ...
Number twentytwo's thighs are just great. Who's he?
Jose Galindo. He hit .314 at Lynchburg last year.
Threefourteen? Hmmm... Look't those thighs, Jackson
Ninetyfive miles an hour.
He looks great, just great!
Take this to Ebby in the dugout between innings.
What's it say?
It says he's not bending his back on his followthrough.
Oh dear....easy honey...
Ninetyfive miles an hour...
Hum, babe, hum, babe, fire it in here, hum babe
That's not necessary, Jackson Okay, Nuke, now lean in for the sign.
Ninetythree miles an hour.
He looks wonderful, Jackson...
Oh nohe's shaking off the sign, Jackson. Big mistake...
He'll learn.
I'm Crash Davis.
Annie Savoy. Wanta dance?
I don't dance.
I don't trust a man who don't dance. It ain't natural.
She's dancing with me.
Crash, I didn't think you
I'll learn. C'mon
These are the ground rules. I hook up with one guy a season I mean it takes me a couple of weeks to pick the guykinda my own spring training... And, well, you two are the most promising prospects of the season so far. So... I thought we should get to know each other.
Why do you get to choose? Why don't I get to choose?
Actually none of us on this planet ever really choose each other. It's all Quantum Physics and molecular attraction. There are laws we don't understand that bring us together and break us apart.
After 12 years in the minor leagues, I don't tryout. Besides I don't believe in, Quantum Physics when it comes to matters of the heart...or loins.
What do you believe in?
I believe in the soul, the cock, the pussy, the small of a woman's back, the hanging curve ball, high fiber, good scotch, long foreplay, show tunes, and that the novels of Thomas Pynchon are selfindulgent, overrated crap. I believe that Lee Harvey Oswald acted alone, I believe that there oughtta be a constitutional amendment outlawing astroturf and the designated hitter, I believe in the "sweet spot", voting every election, soft core pornography, chocolate chip cookies, opening your presents on Christmas morning rather than Christmas eve, and I believe in long, slow, deep, soft, wet kisses that last for 7 days.
Oh my... Don't leave...
G'night.
Wait, Crashdon't goall I want is a date. I'm not gonna fall in love with you or nothin'.
I'm not interested in a woman who's interested in that boy.
I'm not interested yet.
See my hips?
Yep.
I think Thomas Pynchon's a genius.
When you're hitting you shouldn't think about anything but hitting. But you shouldn't think about it too much. The trick is to use your brain to not use your brain.
But you were pulling your hips last night.
So...Wanta make love?
I'm committed to Nuke for the season. You had your chance the other night.
What'you see in that guyhe's dim, pretty boy. a young, wild,
Young men are uncomplicated. And he's not "dim". He's just inexperienced. My job is to give him "lifewisdom" and help him make it to the major leagues.
That's my job too.
Damn.
You're pulling your hips out.
But they're nice hips. I looked up your records You've hit 227 home runs in the minors. That's great!
Don't tell anybody.
Why not? If you hit twenty homers this year you'll be the all time minor league champ! The record's
247 home runs in the minors would be a dubious honor, if ya think about it.
Oh no, I think it'd be great! The Sporting News should know about it.
No. Please.
Damn.
Let me.
Your place or mine?
Despite my love of weird metaphysics and my rejection of most JudaoChristian ethics, I am, within the framework of a baseball season, monogamous.
Fact is you're afraid of meeting a guy like me 'cause It might be real so you sabotage it with some bullshit about commitment to a young boy you can boss around Great deal. You get to write self indulgent little poems all winter about how hard it is to find a man even though you just sent him packing So what do you really want? You wanta be a tragic woman figure wallowing in the bullshit of magic? Or do you want a guy?
Well, Annie, your place or mine?
You got me all confused.
A batter has two tenths of a second to decide whether to swing
I'm not a real batter. I'm a woman.
Crash...I want you.
Nuke won't go to bed with you, eh?
He' s confused
Aren't we all?
Don't you think I'm pretty?
You're gorgeous, God damn it! From the moment I first saw you I knew I had to have you. I had to have you!
I want to be had.
I think of you and the "boy" all the time.
He won't make love to me anymore.
And he's right! A ballplayer on a streak has to respect the streak. They don't happen very often. You know how hard this game is? If you believe you're playing well because you're getting laid or because you're not getting laid or because you wore red silk pantiesthen you are! And I still think Thomas Pynchon is full of shit.
I want you desperately!
Who are you? Do you have a job?
I teach part time at the Junior College. What if I told you I was through with Nuke? He learned his lessons quickly and left me.
And now you wanta teach me?
I don't imagine there's much I could teach you.
I doubt that.
Crash, I get wet just thinking about you.
I thought you wanted an "uncomplicated" boy?
I'm ready for a complicated man.
and as soon as we lose a game, he'll be back in your arms.
I said when I think about you, I get wet.
Annie, I think you should leave.
God damn youwhat is happening? Is there no man who'll have me? This is the weirdest season I ever sawthe Durham Bulls can't lose and I can't get laid!
You okay?
Why baseball?
I was raised in a Baptist church got dipped in the water when I was 5 born again before kindergarten...by the time I was 10 I knew it was bullshit and at 15 I ran away from home...
I crossed the streetit was the New York Yankees spring training fieldtok, tok, tok, was the sound of a ball hitting a bat and I sat in the warm bleachers to think about my mother... And I saw him.
Who?
Thurman Munson. He was covered with dirt and he was fighting with everybodyit was beautiful ... And he called the ump a cocksucker and got thrown out of the game even though it was an exhibition! So I stayed in the bleachers all spring and gradually came to understand what's so great about baseball.
What's so great about baseball?
If you know where home plate is, then you know where 1st base is, and 2nd, and everything else 'cause they're always in the same place in relation to home. Don't you see? If you know where home plate is, then you know where everything else in the universe is!
I don't know if I'd go that far.
It's true, It's true! Least it used to be true. It ain't possible that baseball's not enough anymore, is it, Crash?
It's possible.
No.
Are you gonna be waking up next to 20 year old ballplayers when you're 60?
Well...I used to think that wasn't the worst thing in the world to look forward to. Lately I'm not so sure.
Why not?
Whatta you mean "why not"? Are you gonna play forever?!
I got released.
I heard already.
... so you see in a former lifetime I'm sure that I was Alexandria, the Czarette of Russia? What do you think?
How come in former lifetimes, everybody was someone famous? How come nobody ever says they were Joe Schmo?
It doesn't work like that. God, you're gorgeous. Want to dance?
What happened?
I quit. Hit my dinger and hung 'em up.
I'm quitting too. Boys, not baseball.
There might be an opening for a manager at Salem next spring.
Salem, Massachusetts? Where all the witches were?
Yeah...you a witch?
Not yet. It takes years of practice...
You think I could make it to the Show as a manager?
You'd be great, just great... 'Cause you understand nonlinear thinking even though it seems like baseball is a linear game 'cause of the lines and the box scores an' allbut the fact is that there's a spacious"nontime kind of time" to it...
Annie
What?
I got a lotta time to hear your theories and I wanta hear every damn one of 'em...but right now I'm tired and I don't wanta think about baseball and I don't wanta think about Quantum Physics... I don't wanta think about nothing... I just wanta be.
I can do that, too.
Millie, you've got to stay out of the clubhouse. It'll just get everybody in trouble.
I got lured.
You didn't get "lured". Women never get lured. They're too strong and powerful for that. Now say it"I didn't get lured and I will take responsibility for my actions".
"I didn't get lured and I will take responsibility for my actions".
That's better. Got the radar ready?
Well let's get down to it, honey how was he?
Well, he fucks like he pitches. Sorta all over the place
Omigawd, honey, I'm so happy for you.
He's a virgin.
You should be at the game.
No, noI'm fine. Millie, how much time did you and Jimmy spend together before he proposed?
Five hours. We both just know. Do you think I deserve to wear white?
We all deserve to wear white.
You mean Nuke. You said "Crash".
I didn't say "Crash". I said Nuke.
You said "Crash".
Honey, don't ever listen to a woman when she's making love. They'll say the strangest things.
You said "Crash".
Would you rather me be making love to him, using your name, or making love to you, using his name?
Yeah maybe you're right.
You see how nice things are when we go slow?
Mmm, hmmm. You shoulda seen how many people came to the airport to see me off. When I got drafted first it was the happiest day of my Father's life. He likes baseball more than I do...
You can learn to like it.
I wanted to be the host of Dance Fever, somethin' like that...
Y'know if you make it to the Bigs you could still become the host of Dance Fever. Baseball's a good stepping stone for things like that.
God, I never thought of that.
There is a lot of things you never thought of, sweetienow get some rest for tonight's game.
I want you to wear these on the road trip when you pitch.
What?
They'll fit snugly against your balls in such a wonderful way that you'll start seeing things differentlyplus they'll remind you of me which is better than thinking about those nasty hitters.
Jesus, Annie, I don't know
You've been pitching out of the wrong side of your brain. These'll help move things to the right side.
Big League pitchers don't use these.
They did when they were in the Carolina League.
God I'm tired. What a trip I was lousy. I was worse than lousy. Everytime I pitchedit was like throwing gasoline on a fire. Kaboom. I
What is this "I, I, I" stuff? You only talk about yourself? Aren't you glad to see me? Don't I look nice?
Sorry. You look great. I'm totally exhausted.
Good. Total exhaustion can be spiritually fabulous. Let's play catch.
Catch?
This in ridiculous. I'm a pro.
Just do what I say. Now, which nostril are you breathing through?
Which nostril am I breathing through?
The right nostril. Good.
My right nostril?
There are two important psychic conduits called the "pingala" and the "ida". The pingala starts with the left testicle and ends at the right nostril.
The ida originates at the right testicle and terminates at the left nostril.
I'm really beat. I need some serious "z's"
The pingala is the nostril used for throwing a baseball. And if you discover before a game you're in the wrong nostril, it's easy to switch.
Switch nostrils?
Right. Okay, fire a couple in there.
You're patronizing me! I will not be patronized
If I throw too hard I'll hurt the kid.
He's handled a lotta pitchers whose records were better than one and six.
How was that?
A little better.
Gimme the God damn ball!
How ya like that?
Much better. Your delivery was fully integrated because you weren't thinking about it 'cause you were pissed off at me. This is progress.
I can't keep up with you. First you say sex is gonna make me a better pitchernow no sex is gonna do it?!
It's all the same thing.
God...I think I'm gonna be sick
Oh don't be silly. Death is nothing to be scared of. It's just another way of living. It's just a fresh startkinda like spring training.
Death is like spring training?
Yes. And so is birth. Now look me in the eyes, Nuke You haven't been wearing my panties, have you?
I'm yours.
Y'know, Annie, I been thinking if it works for one game, maybe it'll work for a whole buncha games.
Breathing through your pingala always works, honey
Not that. I mean the rechanneling of my sexual energy. Maybe we shouldn't make love for awhile.
Now don't go overboard, I look incredibly hot, right?
You know what it feels like to throw a three hitter? We better not fuck.
Nuke?!
Just till I lose.
Get over here.
No.
Ebby Calvin "Nuke" LaLoosh
I'm so proud of you and all the guys. Want some more soup?
No, no, it was great.
How 'bout a back rub?
No, that's okay. All I need's a little nap.
I'll tuck you in.
You can't seduce me.
I'm not gonna try to seduce you, sweetie...
That's my leg.
I know what it is.
I figure we could work on some fundamentals even if we don't make love.
Fundamentals?
Sure. Unsnap my stockings.
Crash once called a woman's, uh pussyy'know how the hair kinda makes a "V" shape?
Yes I do...
Wellhe calls it the Bermuda Triangle. He said a man can get lost in there and never be heard from again.
What a nasty thing to say.
He didn't mean it nasty. He said that gettin' lost and disappearing from the face of the earth was sometimes a good thing to do especially like that.
Oh... Crash is a very smart man. Now c'mon, honey, give it a try.
No! You're playing with my mind!
I'm trying to play with your body!
I knew ityou're seducing me!
Of course I'm seducing you for Godsakes, and I'm doing a damn poor job of it Aren't I pretty?
I think you're real cute.
Cute?! I hate cute! Baby ducks are cute! I wanta be exotic and mysterious!
You're exotic and mysterious and cutethat's why I better leave.
Nuke! You got things all wrong! There's no relation between sex and baseball. Ask Crash.
I did.
What'd he say?
He said if I gave in to you I'd start losing again.
He did?
I'll be back when we lose.
We lost.
it's okay..
I'd like you to meet my father.
Ohwon't YOU come in?
I couldn't dump my old man but maybe later I can sneak away from him...
You don't have to...
I'm starting to understand what you're teaching me. I mean the panties and the nostrils and all that shit...I mean I'm getting it
So am I. Nuke, honey, we need to talk
Aw hell, let's have a quickie right here
but you're father's in there!
Crash says I gotta quit worrying about himc'mon, honey, we got a lotta catching up to do
It's Skip, for you.
Yeah, Skip, it's me. Jeez...Jeez...God...Jeez...
I gotta leave first thing in the morning.
That's great!
How can I possibly thank you?
Well I guess this is it.
I won't be needing these anymore.
Neither will I.
I think I'm ready for the Show.
Ebby Calvin Nuke LaLooshdon't think too much.
Don't worry.
What nasty bug crawled up your bungus and where the hell are you going?
I'm leaving, man. I'm bailing town. This place has gotten way too hairy.
Where am I gonna find another mechanic stupid enough to work for my money?
Hey, have you seen Benny lately?
No... You want me to give him a message?
You should think about leaving, too, man. Sell this place... Something's going on here. I don't know. Something real weird.
Ah, you'll be coming back.
I don't think so.
All right. Take care of yourself.
I am.
Hey. What should I do if I see Benny?
Run.
Oh, God.
He is so bald.
God! Take a chill lozenge.
Like we don't have rights too?
The homelesses?
Oh, please.
Environment. That's cool with me.
Okay.
Oh, yeah!
Right!
If we don't invite all the seniors we can't use the school funds, you know that.
Can't they make exceptions? Maryanne Heinel? She's such a scud. Can't we have a Maryanne clause?
Well, look who's here.
Smell of booze much.
Nice much.
Buffy, the apewoman.
Seriously, Buffy. That look was way twisted. What were you thinking about?
I really was way way too too.
Oh, please! When she ran onto the field in the middle of the game? Was that the most outofit thing ever, or did I blink?
I'm, like, yelling at her, 'What are you doing?' And she's going 'Jeffrey, Jeffrey!' Way mental.
What are you talking about?
Weird? You mean like you hanging out with that homeless, Poke? I saw you last night after the game.
Oh, thank you very much.
Like you've got a grip.
You're so out of it. You've blown off cheerleading, you've blown off dance committee 
So, we're stupid now?
You know, just because you're having fullon wiggans doesn't mean you have to drag us into it. This isn't just any dance. It happens ot be the last dance of our last year.
Except for Prom.
Right.
And the January Semiformal 
Okay! Look, Buffy. You want to play house with the unwashed masses, that's fine. But personally, I think you ought to spend a little time prioritizing. I really do.
It's amazing what you can do with a parachute and some starch.
As long as there's room for three in it. What, didn't you bring your new friends?
The don't. You kind of wish they would, though.
Wittay.
I'm sorry. I'm Pike. This is Benny.
Pike isn't a name. It's a fish.
Hey, wait a minute...
They'll kill us!
You want some punch?
Omniplex?
Nee sitch. No way.
What happened?
Buffy was on the uneven parallels  she was really good; coach said she could have been in the Olympics  but she was doing a routine, spinning, and the beam broke.
You're kidding.
Snapped. Buffy was, you know, on the upswing, and I swear to God she went across the room. Perm over heels.
Oh, my God! Ouch! No wonder you quit.
Well, that's the thing. She landed on her feet. Didn't even sprain a toe. And I go up to her and she turns and looks at me and she's like this 
I never thought of that.
I gotta bail. You coming?
Buffy!
What is she...
Cool!
Does Jeffrey know?
I can't believe they still ate it.
Where'd you learn how to do that?
So they found Cassandra's body out by the railway tunnels. Nobody's saying anything, but they think she was involved in something, like, illegal or something. Like dealing.
Well, I hope so.
Probably was. What do you suppose she was doing out there.
I got all the plastic stuff. What should I do with it?
Throw it out.
And Spring Fling.
Okay.
She was even crazier after that. I mean it, you wouldn't even have recognized her.
Buffy?
Write that down.
Okay, what else?
Oh, yes! Yes!
Oh, baby!
Make me a woman! Yes! Make me a woman!
Buffy?
Jeffrey!
Well, I'm done. Are you done?
No 
Okay, let's go.
But 
She didn't even hardly talk to anyone in school. All year. She didn't even go to the prom.
I heard she got straight A's.
Bessel! What are you doing here?
Hi, Grueller.
What are you grinning at? You think I was scared?
Could be.
You think so?
Could be.
Listen, you little worm. I could beat your head to a pulp for you, just like I did last year, you got that? You got that?
Got that.
Good.
I can't!
You know you must. There is only one. Now you are that one. It is time.
Why? Why me?
She has died. You are the next to be called. Why do you think you were sent to me? Trained as you were? You bear the mark.
The mark of the Coven.
I don't understand.
Ever since Adam and Eve first left the garden, he followed: the serpent. Satan. He sends his legion in the shape of men, to feed on us, to breed his Hell on our earth. They are a plague upon us.
But as long as there have been vampire, there has been the Coven; the line of Slayers. Ones with the strength and the skill to kill them, to find them where they gather and stop the swell of their numbers. One dies, the next is called.
I'm just a girl.
You are much more.
I find it restorative, sleeping in the lifeblood of so many. To feel their souls coursing about me.
What's happening? What do you want?
So very much.
My parents have money...
Yes, I'm sure they do. This place is everything you said it was, Amilyn.
What... are you?
Are we so strange? So alien to you? I've seen this culture, the wealth, the greed, the waste... it's truly heartwarming. The perfect place to spread my empire. Honestly, Eastern Europe was so dead, the Communists just drained the blood out of the place. It's livened up a bit in the past few years, but it's nothing compared to this.... this Mecca of consumption. The city of Angels.
No, wait. I can be dumb. Really. Or mean, or whatever. I can learn. I'm useful.
Really?
Swear to God.
Mr. Howard is so heinous. He's always giving me a hard time. I get a Cplus on the test and he tells me, 'You have no sense of history.' I have no sense of history? He wears a brown tie.
You got a Cplus? I can't believe I cheated off you.
Excuse me for not knowing about El Salvador. Like I'm ever going to Spain anyway. Ooh!
No THX.
They don't even have Dolby.
So, is Jeffrey really spending the night at your house?
That's the plan.
Good enough!
Cool. We can figure decorations and stuff.
Cassandra, you gotta come, too.
Come one, that was so weird.
What, it's not weird. I just cut the stupid hot dog in half.
 like she's gonna kill me.
I was just scared is all.
No. It was mondo bizarro.
That is so cool.
Thank you very much.
Nobody is even gonna look at the game.
I don't get it.
How do you not tread on the earth? I mean, you kind of have to.
You guys blow. I'm waiting on Cassandra. She's gonna help me with my history.
Cassandra's really smart.
Yeah... She's okay, though.
I guess.
Don't worry, Jennifer. Someday your prince will come.
Yeah, just make sure you do first. Let's go, guys.
B'bye.
Hey, Buffers. You look thrashed.
Thanks.
You and Cassandra get anything done last night?
Buffy, Jesus! You know these steps.
Sorry.
Pike.
You're having a fling with him?
Well, I guess you got what you came for.
Nicole...
Later for it.
Hi, guys.
Hi.
Have you guys seen Jeffrey? The limo never showed, I thought he might be here.
I haven't seen him tonight.
Oh.
God, where the hell did you come from? You scared me to death.
I'm sorry. That was impressive. The... tumbling.
What? Oh. I used to do gymnastics. Are you looking for someone?
I'm looking for you, actually.
Am I in trouble or something?
Not at all. My name is Merrick. I was sent to find you some time ago. I should have found you much sooner but there were... complications. You should have been taught, prepared.
What are you talking about?
I've searched the entire world for you, Buffy.
Why?
To bring you... your birthright.
My birthright? You mean, like a trust fund?
I had a trust fund my great grandfather, or maybe it was an inheritance, 'cause he's dead, and I spent it on shoes.
You must come with me. It's much too late already. You must come with me to the graveyard.
Wait a minute. My birthright is in the graveyard? Later not.
Wait!
You're one of those skanky old men that, like, attack girls and stuff. Forget you. My, um, my boyfriend is gonna be here in about thirty seconds, and he's way testy.
You don't understand. You have been chosen.
Chosen to go to the graveyard? Why don't you just take the first runner up, okay?
You must believe me. You must come with me while there's still time.
Time to do what?
To stop the killing. To stop the vampires.
Let me get this straight. You're like, this greasy bum, and I have to go to the graveyard with you 'cause I'm chosen, and there's vampires.
Yes.
Does Elvis talk to you? Tell you to do things? Do you see spots?
I don't have time for your prattling. I have proof. You bear the mark.
Just stay away from me, okay?
Did you ever dream that you were someone else?
Everybody does.
In the past. A girl. Maybe... A Magyar peasant. An Indian princess. A slave.
I was a slave.
In Virginia.
I don't know. It was... There was a big gram or something. And there's one, I'm like a prostitute...
China.
Oh, my God. I never told anybody about this. I remember the one about the peasant, too. God, there's a bunch. Is this, like channeling or something.
I had a dream once where I was... There was like, knights in it, and I worked in this bar. And I... was fighting. I'm always fighting. And there's a guy... He's not always there, but he's horrible, all white, and he's always... trying to kill me.
Lothos.
How do you know all this?
I have to show you.
I can't believe I'm doing this. I can't believe I'm in a graveyard with a strange man hunting for vampires on a school night.
Why didn't you ever tell anybody about your dreams?
Oh, yeah, tell everyone I'm crazy. Beauty ida.
Ow.
Cramps?
None of your business. God.
This is it.
Wait a minute.
Just for protection. You won't have to do anything. I just need you to watch.
All right. What do we do now?
We wait for Robert to wake up.
Where's the other one?
She 
Go to school tomorrow. Try to act normal. Don't let anyone know what's happening. This is important. When the vampires find out who you are... you won't be hunting them anymore.
All right.
Meet me at this address after school.
I have cheerleading squad.
Skip it.
They can't come in, right? Unless you invite them. Is that true?
It's true.
It's not pretty, but it does suit our purposes.
Our purposes.
What, um... What do we do?
There's a great deal I have to show you, I'm not even sure where to start There's so little time.
Why do you keep saying that?
Do you know what a VampireKing is?
A VampireKing? You mean like Dracula?
Oh, yes. And the man from your dreams. Lothos.
Oh, him.
Yes. They travel about, usually with one or two of their followers to lay the groundwork. The vampires find a community and they feed on it, make it their own. You were difficult to trace, and I think the process has gone a lot further than I'd anticipated. Usually this goads a community into some kind of paranoid frenzy. But for some reason, nobody here seems to be paying any attention.
What?
We'll cover it later.
I still don't get how they happened to come to my town. I mean, was I born here because... because they were coming here? That Lothos guy, and his buddies?
In a way, yes. Your fate is inexorably connected to them.
Great. First I have a birthright, now I've got a fate. Hey, do I have to take notes on this?
We're going to have the work hard. You'll need some excuse for staying out. For your parents.
Not a pressing issue.
I tell you, the best thing I can do right now is find out more about you. What your strengths are, your likes... Everything. What's your best subject?
Uh... gym.
Yes, you used to do gymnastics. But you stopped. Why?
Well, everybody says... it's just kind of dorky. I mean, have you ever seen a gymnast's legs? They're like   the mighty oak. It's not a look.
But you enjoyed it, yes?
Well... I do cheerleading now. It's way cooler.
Cheerleading. For... sporting events, yes?
Sporting events, yeah.
All right. Why don't you show me a cheer?
Here?
Yes, yes. It would be interesting. A nice cheer.
Okay.
Who we gonna beat?
Who we gonna beat?
No  you don't have to 
Oh. I thought... you lead me 
No. You don't do anything. I do it.
Oh. Good.
Oh, what the hell is wrong with you? You threw a knife at my head!
I had to test you.
But you threw a knife at my head!
And you caught it! Only the chosen one could have done that.
I don't want to be the chosen one, okay? I don't want to spend the rest of my life chasing after vampires! I just want to graduate from high school, go to Europe, marry Charlie Sheen and die. It may not sound too exciting to a sconehead like you, but I think it's swell. And then you come along... and... and then I'm a member of the hairy mole club, so you throw things at me!
It was necessary.
Last night. You knew I was sitting on a fresh grave, didn't you?
I don't think you understand the full implications of 
Oh. Sorry.
Don't you see what's happening? You're changing. You've got powers you've only just begun to tap. Physical, mental prowess you've never dreamed of. God, this hurts. I've administered a few shocks to your system to start the adrenaline working. I'm sorry I have to take so many shortcuts in the training process.
Put your head back.
Two days ago, would you have even hit me? Let alone so powerfully?
No... I guess I would have gotten Jeffrey to hit you.
Exactly. You're changing. You're becoming something extraordinarily powerful.
Ooh, another embarrassment for the teabag, while the chosen one is still well under par.
Your turn.
What about bats? Do they turn into bats?
No. No bats, no flying. They... float, occasionally. Not really flying.
Toasty. Were there ever any, like, famous vampires?
Oh, several. Lucretia Borgia, Joseph Mengele, Franklin Pangborn... are any of those names familiar?
If I say 'no' does that make me a bad person?
Good Lord. What do you study in history?
My nails.
All right. You've heard of the emperor Caligula, perhaps? Or Jack the Ripper?
They were vampires?
Same one.
Oh.
What!?!
Try to pay attention.
He was slow. Very simple. They won't all be that easy.
Fine.
And the alley was a mistake. Never corner yourself like that. If they'd come at you in force you'd be dead now. One vampire is a lot easier to kill then ten.
Does the world 'Duhh' mean anything to you?
You felt a little sick, didn't you? The cramps.
Nice conversationalist! Yeah, I felt 'em a little, but I ain't due for two weeks since you're so excited about the subject.
It's natural. A reaction to their presence, to the... unnaturalness of it. It's part of how you are able to track them.
Oh, wonderful. My secret weapon is  PMS. That's just great. Thanks for telling me.
You'll get used to it. I'm more worried about your tactical mistakes.
You are such a wet.
A what?
A wet! Didn't I just kill that vampire? I think I did. I didn't see you killing any vampires. You were too busy playing 'Beat the Clock'.
Don't start with me again.
Aren't I, like the chosen one? The one and only? The Grand High Poobah and doesn't that mean you have to be nice to me? Like, ever?
Buffy...
And why are you always wearing black? It's so down. It's totally not your color. I don't think you have a color.
What do you want? Encouragement? 'Gosh, Buffy, you're so special, I just want to give you a great big hug, oh I'm just having a warm fuzzy.'
Oh, fuck you!
Do you know how many girls I've trained to be Slayers? Five. Five properly prepared girls, girls who faced their responsibilities, who worked hard to become women overnight  harder than you've ever worked in your life  and I saw them ripped apart. Do you want to live? Do you?
I...
What did you think, that being able to jump about and hit people makes you a Slayer?
Five?
Five.
So, basically, I've got the life expectancy of a zit, right?
Not if you're careful.
How can you keep doing this?
It's what I was raised to do. There aren't many of us left, the Watchers.
Watchers?
There's a small village in Hampshire, near Stonehenge... ... near a bunch of big rocks. That's where I was born. My father taught me about the training, about finding the Slayers, reading the signs. There's a small cluster of us, a few families, really... most of the neighboring villagers think we're just a bunch of harmless old loonies. I thought so myself for a time, when I was younger... I'm sorry. I'm not supposed to... I shouldn't go on like this.
I wish you would.
It isn't important.
I'm curious, is all.
Buffy, don't... don't start thinking of me as your friend. It interferes with the work, and it...
And it makes it worse when I die, right?
Well, you know, I'm not gonna kick so easy. I've got a few things the other girls didn't have.
As for example, what?
Well... there's my keen fashion sense, for one.
Vampires of the world, beware.
Merrick. You made a joke. Are you okay, I mean, do you want to lie down? I know it hurts the first time.
I mean, most of the time Jeffrey's really sweet, but sometimes he gets kind of... 'MeTarzan'ish, you know what I mean? Lately it bugs me, I guess. Merrick? Are you still breathing?
I can't work this.
We call them zippers. They're not supposed to be a challenge.
But it's in the back. Why are we wasting time with this, anyway?
Because you clash, Merrick. You clash with everything. I mean you might as well go around with a sign, 'Slayers trained her.' Honestly, you look like something out of... Pasadena.
My clothes have always been perfectly serviceable.
Well, you're on my turf now. You're just gonna have to trust me.
I want to die.
Okay. The important thing is not to panic.
Interesting.
I kind of had to improvise. Sorry about your guitar.
There isn't time.
Make time, okay? You're the one who told me to act normal. I've missed three practices already. If I'm not there for the Barber game tomorrow everyone's gonna talk.
Another distraction. It's not right.
Why because it's not my fate? It's not in the BookofAll Knowledgefullness that I'm gonna be cheerleading at the Barber game?
Sooner or later you're going to have to accept it. Your fate.
I'm pretty much learning not to accept anything anymore. Come on, Merrick. Football. Afterwards we can kill and kill until there is nothing left.
All right.
Toasty. You should come; it's gonna be a great game.
Oh, I'll be there all right. I'm not letting you out of my sight. Not till you're ready.
Try and be inconspicuous, okay? Act like a fan.
Football is my life.
You're learning. Slowly, incredibly slowly, but you're learning.
None of the other girls ever gave me this much trouble.
And where are they now?
Wait!
He knows who I am!
Guys, what's the sitch? I'm bored.
) What do you think?
Please. It's so '91.
What are we doing?
Why don't we see a movie?
Well, where?
Beverly Center.
Please. They show previews for foreign movies.
Totally stale. And the ushers are like, the acne patrol. We're thinking Pavilion. Sitch?
Sounds toasty. We're going Pavilion.
Excuse much! Not rude or anything.
Nice ensemble!
What did Jeffrey's dad say?
'Just remember you're in training, son'
Let's meet tonight, okay?
Where?
Cafe Blase.
I don't see why we have to invite everyone.
Kimberly, it's the senior dance.
I didn't learn... I just... it's not a big deal.
Buffy, I'm gonna tell Jeffrey you were playing with another man's Hebrew National.
Get a boob job.
You were supposed to be here at three.
I forgot.
Buffy, what is your sitch? You're acting like The Thing From Another TaxBracket; it's too weird.
Look, a lot's been going on. That's what I wanted to tell you guys about. I need to tell you. You see... a while ago, I met this guy 
Oh my God you're having an affair.
Excuse me for having something important to do.
This isn't important? The earth is our home.
Kimberly, it's a dance. It's a stupid dance with a bunch of stupid kids that I see every stupid day.
Listen to you. What language are you speaking?
Get out of my facial.
I'm glad you guys are here. It's good to see you.
Yeah, whoops I came.
You look way pretty, Kim.
I know. I like your little outfit.
It has to be, like a socially conscious theme.
'One that reflects the students' growing awareness of and involvement in the world around them.'
It is a pretty crucial subject.
See, Cassandra likes it. Cassandra's my friend.
Bugs.
Okay, guys, how about the ozone layer?
Can't. History report. The Normans and the Saxons.
Bogutude. Blow it off.
I really can't. Besides, it's pretty interesting.
You're weird and I'm afraid of you. Seriously, Cassandra, there's a lot cooler things you could be doing than your homework.
Like what?
Like my homework.
Will you guys shut up, please?
It could happen.
Can we have a hot dog, please, medium rare, and a cup of joe?
You guys are thrashed.
Yeah, we're drunk. We're the Drunks. What's your name?
Buffy.
Hi.
Hi there.
Is that your car?
It was. I think it's pretty much ready for the 
How are you doing?
Oh, I'm good. I'm good. Kind of miss my knees, though.
You want some water or something?
Water. Okay.
Do you do this kind of thing a lot? I mean, is this like a hobby?
Not exactly.
They were vampires, weren't they?
Yeah.
God! Unbelievable. Vampires.
You had a car full of stuff. Were you leaving?
Yeah, I was bailing. I have a friend, and he's really... well, he's really vampire, I guess. Bad scene.
Well, stay here tonight.
Thanks. Tomorrow morning, I'm on a bus. I'm gone.
Where are you gonna go?
Well, I've always wanted to see Oxnard.
Hey, jeez are you okay? You need a hand?
It's nothing. It doesn't hurt.
Things are kind of confusing.
I'll back that up.
Three weeks ago all I thought about was... well, I didn't actually think about anything. I definitely didn't expect this.
I know. My guidance counselor never mentioned anything about vampires. 'Prison' came up a few times, but nothing about undead.
It's weird. I went back to my old grade school once, to the playground  I used to hang out there all the time, playing on the swings and stuff... I went back and it was so tiny, the whole place. I couldn't even fit on the swings. Everything just looked so small. I'm sorry. I'm babbling.
No, you're not.
I'm kinda beat. You can stay in my mom's room if you want.
I think I'll just hang out here. Make sure the sun comes up and everything.
You sure?
Oh, I'll be fine. Got my chair, got my window, I'm great.
Mmkay.
Hey, Buffy...
Yeah?
You know, you saved my life. And I just wanted to say... I forgive you for talking during the movie. Almost.
I didn't expect to see you.
I know.
Why'd you come back?
I don't know. I kind of thought I ought to be here. You know, this isn't exactly the kind of thing you can run away from.
Thanks.
Besides, Oxnard sucks.
Pike, I don't think you're up to this.
I think I could help. You gonna tell me you don't need help?
Buffy? What's wrong?
Oh, God. It's him. I think it's him.
Who?
Merrick...
I been working on some stuff for you. What'cha doing?
I'm going shopping. Don't try to stop me.
Cool. I could actually use a couple of Allen wrenches. What do you need?
A dress.
Dress, huh? What for?
For the dance.
Come again?
I'm going to the senior dance.
Second word... sound like 'dance'.
I'm going to the dance.
What for?
In order to dance and to drink punch and to be with my friends. Comprende?
I don't believe this. The world's under attack by the legions of the undead and you're going to a mixer?
It's not a mixer. It's the senior dance. And it's important. You wouldn't understand.
You got that right. I thought you wanted to kill vampires.
I don't want to kill anybody, and I don't want to talk about it anymore.
Listen, I know you're bummed about your friend, and I'm really sorry...
He did what he was supposed to.
But, Buffy, you're the guy, the chosen guy.
Right. I'm the chosen one. And I choose to be shopping.
I should have known.
Leave me alone.
Benny was right. You guys are all exactly the same.
I crashed your party.
Pretty shallow of you.
That's me.
I'm glad you came.
Yeah, you look like you're having a swell time.
Will I get the shit kicked out of me if I ask you to dance?
I don't actually think Jeffrey's gonna notice.
I'm going out the front.
Are you nuts, Buffy? There's a hundred of them out there. They'll rip us apart.
You're staying here. Some of them might not come after me. If they don't this place is gonna turn into a total stain.
You say that like it's a bad thing.
Good thing one of us was prepared.
Buffy, there's no way you're going out there alone.
Are you okay?
Get away from me!
I didn't say it was a bad idea, I just said the timing was off. We could maybe wait till later.
Don't be such a fraidycat.
Who's afraid? Besides me, I mean.
We've come all this way. We just have to check it out. I got a hunch.
You're the boss, boss. I just thought maybe we should wait.
Ah, my fool is dead. He was careless, always. Still, I'll pull out your tongue for that. Don't you understand? I've killed you a dozen times. Your life is not a blink of my eye, not a single breath. I have lived in the shadows, in the pulsing filth behind men's eyes. A thousand years, and more. I have conversed with the worms that fed on my corpse and I have bathed in the blood of emperors.
Have you ever thrown up in the front row of a Richard Marx concert?
What?
You're even weaker than the others.
I think you've forgotten something.
This? This is you only weapon? Your puny faith?
No...
I am a God! A God!
I am so sure.
You okay?
I... yeah, I'm okay. I'm fine.
Well... it's possible they think my name's Bobby.
Real 'qualitytimers,' Hugh.
Something like that.
Hey, it works for me. If they want to leave you alone in the house, all helpless and vulnerable...
What show is this?
It's the news, Buffy.
Oh. Who's in it? I know what it is. It's what's on instead of the movie.
I just want to see the basketball scores. It's important.
Mmmnkay.
Oh, wow. Oh, wow. Oh, wow.
You were having a nightmare.
What'd you dream about?
Nothing.
Come on, what was it?
Nothing. It was just a dream.
Hey there.
Hi.
Are you going out with Jeffrey tonight?
Jealous?
Hey, baby, how ya doing? You look beat.
I do? I guess I do.
Where were you last night? I called your house like four times.
I went to sleep. I think I have the flu or something.
I can't get sick. You know  training and all. I'm gonna be late.
'Bye.
I can take care of myself, Jeffrey.
So I noticed.
So that's your tutor, huh? What is he, like, your boyfriend now?
Jeffrey. Projectile vomit.
Buffy, what are you doing here?
I thought we were meeting here.
I'm here with Jenny.
I don't understand.
Oh, come on, Buffy. You know what's going on. It's not working out at all. I've got to move on. I mean, I've got needs, too. I told you about all this.
No, you didn't. When?
Didn't you get my message?
You broke up with my machine?
You weren't home. Like always.
You left me a message?
I'm out of here. Jenny.
Do you know what time it is?
Uum... around ten?
Buffy, honey?
Yeah?
Have you gained a few pounds? Maybe it's that outfit...
Maybe.
What's Bobby gonna say?
I don't know, Mom; I've never met Bobby.
Aren't we the chatty ones. Kiss noise.
Excellent.
What's playing there?
Your parents are always going away for the weekend. You're so lucky.
Yeah, I guess.
My mom doesn't go anywhere. She even does the shopping network. I'm gonna die a virgin.
Oh, my God. Is that true?
Probably. What movie is this?
Are there any good sicknesses that aren't too depressing?
Guys. The environment. I'm telling you, it's totally key. The earth is in terrible shape, we could al die, and besides, Sting's doing it.
Hey, I was thinking, for the dance, what about a big sign that says 'Don't Tread On Me'. You know, and a picture of the earth.
Don't tread on the earth?
Dying.
Eeyuu.
Hi, Buffy.
Hi, guys.
He doesn't look fifty.
Guys. Guys! Reality pulled out of her five minutes ago.
Did you see a girl come by here?
You don't mean, like, a cheerleader?
Yes.
Yeah, I saw her. Bitch took my wheels.
Wheels?
My bike! She's a lesbian, too. She told me.
Which way did she go?
Down there.
Booo!
Suck!
Wrong answer! No prize.
No, we didn't.
Oh, yeah. But I still want to know what happens.
Come on, come on, fork up the scub.
That's it, man. That's the whole story.
We're looking at a dog, possible coffee...
It's coffee.
Amazing!
Figures.
Do people ever call you 'Buffy the Buffalo?' I'm just wondering.
You're the guys from the movie!
We hate you guys!
Hey! She wasted my dog!
Bummer metaphor.
Rich bitches. They're a plague. They've gotta be stopped.
You didn't like them.
They're all the same! They're so stuck up, they're just... they're not even human. I hate them.
Would you sleep with them?
Yes. Definitely. Definitely. Please, God.
Well, there it is, isn't it? You don't even like them, and you'd sleep with them. What's that all about?
I got a news flash, man, another shot of this and I'll have sex with you.
Oh, yeah, and then you'll never call me.
When you get your car together, man, let's bail.
You think? Split?
Utterly. Let's bail this town. It's getting... I don't know. Let's go somewhere where there aren't any rich bitches.
Our own world, where we could live and grow beans. Hundreds of beans.
Benny, man, where you been? You bailed on me, I passed out, man, I almost did a Jimi Hendrix!
Let me in.
Hey, I'm trying, but this window is burnt 
Invite me in, Pike.
Wait a minute. What's wrong with you, man?
I'm fine.
You look like shit, Benny.
I... feel.... pretty.
No offense, man, but I think you're on something nasty. Why don't you just go and cool out and I'll see you in the morning or something.
The sun! It burns! It burns!
Let me in, Pike! I'm hungry!
Get away from here.
I'm hungry.
I mean it.
Nice game.
Jeffrey, I don't mean to sound sexist or anything, but can I borrow her?
Andy!
Man has a complex.
He's got a... What do you call it? A Napoleonic Code.
Don't grab me, okay?
Absolutely. I see now the error of my mistake.
Buffy! Looking tasty.
Thanks. Have you seen Jeffrey?
Buffy, this is crazy. What do these guys want?
Andy, start breaking up some chairs. You'll need weapons.
I like it. Can I be your friend?
Stay away from my thang. Sorry, honey. 'Thing.'
Well, um... litter?
Litter, yeah!
... And they're having some memorial service or something tomorrow. You going?
I don't know. Coach said I had to work on my 'ab's.'
Coach knows what abs are?
Whoa! Whoa! I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I don't actually need any right now.
What's with you?
Nice to feel needed.
Let's move out!
Yes!
I don't think this is gold.
Not as singleminded as the others, not as sybaritic. Almost thoughtful. She's useless.
What's wrong with you!?!
My arm! He took my fucking arm!
Shut up! You let him have it!
You reckless imbecile. This place is ours for the taking and you let yourself... twelve hundred years old and you act like a child.
I had him in my grasp.
Cheer up. You may still.
I look horrible.
The other two  the new ones. Where are they?
I don't know. But the boy, he couldn't kill them.
No... Not a boy... Find out if they're dead. And do something about that arm. Honestly, I don't know how you made it through the Crusades.
Oh, hello Mrs. Swicker.
Hello Walter. I want to tell you the super fixed the leaky pipes and sealed up that hole in your wall.
Oh, OK.
Walter you look awful pale! What did you have to eat today?
I had a salami sandwich, Mrs. Swicker.
If you were my son...why don't you let me fix you a nice hot bowl of soup, it won't take but a minute.
Oh no, that's OK, I can fix myself something. Besides, I got something important to do...
Uh, no, I didn't see him at all.
What's got into that cat? Well if you do see him, tell him I've got a nice fat piece of oceanfresh halibut for him 
Ttell him that?
If you see him.
OK Mrs. Swicker.
Good night Walter...
Good night, Mrs. Swicker 
What's all the noise in here!
Noise Mrs. Swicker? What noise?
Don't tell me I didn't hear a racket! I'm an older woman and I don't need to be upset and disturbed in this manner!
I was just straightening up the place.
Straightening up indeed! Are you sure you're not alone?
I'm always alone, Mrs. Swicker, you know that.
Walter have you been talking to yourself again?
Well yes I guess I have been Mrs. Swicker. Somebody's got to.
She doesn't have to be pretty... just as long as she takes good care of you...
Uh, I can take real good care of myself, Mrs. Swicker!
Uh, Mrs. Swicker I got to meet some friends later, and I have to take a shower!
Well why don't you clean up this dump!
I will  good night Mrs. Swicker!
What's the matter with you!
I get it Walter. I get it.
What do you get?
Your work, the layers of irony.
Hello Mayolia.
Walter, you did something to me with your work tonight.
With Dead Cat?
With Dead Cat. Like a breath of fresh air. I could just  babble on about it for hours.
Really?
It's like...you've turned on.
Tturned on?
A hot light bulb is burning inside of you. I want to be warmed by it.
That's really nice of you Mayolia.
Let me into your world Walter... let me into that white hot inspired world.
I can't. I gotta go home.
Well, I'll go home with you.
Oh no, I couldn't do that. Mrs. Swicker would start asking questions. She's my landlady.
I don't think so Mayolia.
I want to be part of it, I want to inspire you, I want to do  something!
You don't have to do anything!
Then let me give you something then...
I want you to have it. There's a little something for you in here...
Gee. Thanks.
Let it inspire you. Maybe it will let you think of me.
I don't think anyone gets what I said, their blank faces staring, mute, unfeeling 
I liked it very much Mr. Brock. I liked it very much.
Well I'm overjoyed.
"Let them die, and by their miserable death become the clay in his hands, that he might form an ashtray or an ark "
I thought you believed that life is a homeless traveler riding on the RTD of 
I know that  I know that! I also believe in burning the creative candle, you understand, down to the end  to be uncreative you might as well be dead...a walking machine, toiling in a factory!
I worked in one of them. Back in Alaska.
Are you done with these?
Yes, get rid of them...
I saw your...cat.
Did you like it Mister Brock?
Call me...Maxwell.
Maxwell.
I see the rewards of achievement have come your way.
And what project looms on the horizon, Walter?
Uh, I don't know.
Hi.
Good morning Walter!
Wheat germ omelette, guava nectar and garbanzo sprinkled with smoked yeast. Join us?
No thanks. Sounds good though.
Suit yourself.
An' everyone will say Walter let me shake your hand...it's a real pleasure to have known you...
Here here!
After that we go no more!
Hiya Maxwell.
I won't say good luck, Walter.
Why not?
It would imply you could not succeed on your ability alone!
Why on Earth should you be so depressed? Have you heard some of the things they've been saying? You can make fifty thousand on these pieces alone!
I thought you didn't respect money!
I don't! But fifty thou? That's not money, that's manna!
How ya doin'?
Uh, hi.
Hello, Walter.
Hi. I know you! I've seen you down at the Jabberjaw plenty.
Yes, you have. Can I come in?
Uh, sure.
I was going to make some pancakes, you can have some if you like.
Hm.
Did you see my cat?
Yeah I did.
I also saw the girl give you this.
Oh yeah that was Mayolia, she's a nice girl. She's kind of strange, though.
You like chasing the dragon, Walter?
Chasing the dragon? Whaddya mean? You sure you don't want a pancake?
You can cut the crap.
Police officer.
You're like an undercover guy!
You're in some deep shit pal, whether you know it or not.
Huh?!!!
Possession of narcotics isn't something we take lightly, you understand?
But I got a feeling you're gonna cooperate with me. Yessir, I think you and me are gonna be real good friends. Why don't you tell me about your connection.
Cconnection?
I'm not looking to pinch you! I don't care about you, or the girl. But you want to save your ass, you better start telling me what I want to hear. Now!
Telling you what?
Who's the head honcho! Who's providing the smack connection!
Smack?
Goddammit, where are you from, Mars?
Alaska! What the heck's wrong with it!
Haven't you ever heard of smack! Horse! Junk! Heroin!
Is that what that is? I never seen any before. I always thought that stuff was expensive!
Oh, yeah. It can get real expensive.
Who do think you're dealing with, huh? I'm willing to cut you a break, chief!
You are?
Good ol' mild mannered Walter! Give it up. It doesn't fly with me.
I don't know what you're talking about!
You're coming downtown with me, Walter. You're gonna come clean with me, you're gonna name names or I swear to God I'll see to it personally you rot in a cell upstate! Are we understanding each other?
Wait a minute! What'd I do?
I got you cold, pal. Make it easy for yourself, use your head.
I didn't do nothing wrong! That was Mayolia's! I didn't ask her for it. I don't know about any 
Yeah yeah yeah  look! I've heard this song and dance before, save your breath, you're coming with me! Lou goes to turn Walter against the wall but Walter springs back 
Wait a minute  I told you I didn't do nothing wrong!
Don't give me a hard time Walter! You don't want to get me mad! You're coming with me!
I ain't going no place with you!
You're gonna shoot me!
Turn around!
What are ya, deaf? Turn around!
NO! NO DON'T SHOOT ME I DON'T WANT TO GET SHOT!
Relax!
YOU'RE GONNA SHOOT ME!
Walter shut up and relax!
NO YOU'RE GONNA SHOOT ME DON'T SHOOT 
I tried to contact you by phone but I couldn't...
Excuse me I have to make a call...
I want that cat. I'll pay you one thousand dollars  cash.
I'm trying to reach Lieutenant Beldere...
What offers have you got for it? I won't be outbidded. I'm a wealthy man and I don't mind paying for something I want.
I can't talk right now.
What do you want for it? Two thousand? Three thousand?
No...look I'm busy...
Listen to me...I don't want to lose this piece 
I'm holding for Lieutenant Beldere!
Listen to me, listen to me...I've been collecting art pieces all over the world for years and let me tell you something. This newcomer Walter Paisley has it, whatever it is, the X factor, that indefinable quality that separates the greats from the hacks, and I want that cat in my hands. Are you listening to me?
Can't you see I'm busy here?
Walter, what are you doing?
I was just looking at Carla's picture.
Well that's not what I pay you for, now is it?
Well I was uh, just looking...
Well do some looking around the room. I see cups, ashtrays  let's go...
Well I brought something, I wanted to show you.
What is it, your laundry?
Huh?
Where'd ya buy that?
I didn't buy it I made it.
You...made that?
I said I did, didn't I!
Dead Cat!
Dead Cat?
Yeah.
Well it sure looks dead enough.
You want to buy it, put it in the club?
You want me to buy Dead Cat? It'll scare people away.
Well...why did you put a knife in it?
I didn't mean to.
Got carried away, huh?
Alright, I'll tell you what. I'll put it in the corner of the alcove. If it sells, we'll split it fifty fifty. How's that?
Sure! So I guess that means I'm an artist after all.
All that is comes through the eye of the artist...
Alright get a grip on yourself Now since you're here why don't you start early, the kitchen needs cleaning.
Sure!
People seem to like my cat.
Enough already about it  get to work!
Did you hear that Mr. De Santis? Everyone's really crazy about Dead Cat.
Yes they are, aren't they? Look, why don't you take the rest of the night off, you look tired.
Well I don't know 
No, it's Ok...you came in early. Besides, you're creating an incident. When people are applauding they don't order anything.
Well...
Look, go home and...work on something. Make another cat.
I don't have another cat!
Well make a dog, make a parakeet! I'm sure you'll think of something.
A parakeet?
Go home.
OK...good night Mr. De Santis!
Good night Walter.
Hhave a seat?
Have a seat 
I thought I'm not supposed to sit with the customers...
Now why shouldn't you, Walter? Things are different now...
They are?
Hiya Carla.
What am I doing? I'm just telling Walter the truth.
You know what that proves?
What, Mr. De Santis?
The question is what are you going to make next, Walter? Did you make that dog yet, or that parakeet? How about making something out of the cockroaches in your room?
II already got a new one!
Well...why murdered man?
I don't know, it just happened, I guess. I didn't mean to.
You didn't mean to what?
Well, I mean it could have been something else, but it just worked out that way.
It's hot in here...
You want me to open a window or something?
A show?! Like this Sunday?
Nno! Not exactly, I mean you take years and years...
A show..how soon can we go?
These things take time Walter... but for now you've got to break out of this one...avenue you're on...
You better hold off on the bubbly.
Yeah, why?
You might talk too much.
Yeah and what would I say?
Hello Leonard! Beautiful morning, isn't it?
It was.
What do you have in the box?
Just wait till you see this!
Whatsamatter Leonard?
You made...a bust... WALTER Yeah isn't it wonderful?
Whatsamatter Leonard?
Put it down, Walter.
Walter...Walter listen carefully. I don't want you to make any more statues. Do you understand? No more statues.
Well Why not? I gotta make statues Leonard. You heard Maxwell, they want me to make them. I can't go back to being a busboy!
Maxwell! He's behind all this with all his stupid blowhard poetry! Listen, you've got to stop right away! I'm beginning to feel responsible!
Well, wwhat did you do?
Never mind...
When Carla comes by I'll talk to her. She'll make up some nice invitations. We'll have them printed up.
Yeah?
Well invite the critics, and the art collectors...we'll tell them...
It's our road kill series. I take the pictures.
I do the research.
Yeah, can you say plagiarism?
Not only that, he copied us!
Look at that, man. Big deal.
I know.
I mean it's like, you know, I do my art because that's what I am, you know? I'm an artist. I'm not like a banker, you know. Like I create.
I know, man.
But it bugs me when someone rips off our ideas, our concepts, and people freak out about it, you know, and tell us ours stinks!
I know, man.
I mean, screw them, you know? I'm just gonna go right on creating 'cause it comes from here  you know?
I know, man.
I wonder what his deal is.
I think he's looking for you, man... it's all finally catching up with you!
Man that's a trippy name, kinda like the Warhol mayhem series...
I saw a statue once called The Third Time Phyllis Saw Me She Exploded.
Now what kind of statue was that?
I don't know it was made out of driftwood and dipped in sulfuric acid. It was out there...
There's that weird dude again.
Man if this place doesn't cool out I'm gonna hang out somewhere else...
Man look at that get up !
Looks like that cat paid off in spades.
Let's check out the scene.
Man if you want to be a legit artist you have to do nudes, nudes, nudes...
Right. Ain't no body of work complete without some... nudes 
Man this is heavy!
Yeah what's this, Murdered Elephant?
What did he say?
Didn't you hear him?
No man I'm on my own plane.
Man, why do you suppose Walter wants to get her alone? You suppose he could be physically attracted to her?
No man, he ain't the type. He don't get enough vitamin E.
Maxwell gave him a bottle of wheat germ oil. Maybe he started taking it.
That's alright, we got a pressing engagement!
Yeah, right outside the door!
Ah, your new head shot... I like it, very much...
Do you have to be so cold to him?
I'm trying to find a style of my own. Do you really like them?
Oh yes...very nice...very, very nice...
Hi Walter...
What are you doing here so early?
Maybe so...
I wouldn't give up your day job.
You've arrived. You've been recognized. You're a talent, a creative force to be reckoned with.
Leonard, what are you doing?
Are you trying to be funny?
I'm totally serious!
Murdered...man?...
When do we get to see it? WALTER Well...any time, I guess.
Are you alright?
Yes...I'm uh...I'm fine.
Yeah, I'm feeling a lot better.
Listen, I'm going over to Walter's after the place closes. I want to get a look at Murdered Man. Do you want to come along?
What's the matter with you?
Nothing...nothing at all.
I've never seen anyone so... squeamish. Well, what's your opinion, Leonard?
Don't ask.
Oh come on! Even you can see its value.
Well then admit it, it's a work of genius.
I admit it.
No. Why don't you cover it up Walter...
Why not?
Why don't you cover it up, Walter!
What's wrong with you, why do you want to hide it?
Well, I've been thinking... I didn't realize how much...talent Walter actually had. It would be wrong for us to show them one at a time. Dead wrong.
You're right. We should build a collection first.
It will take years to make that many statues. But your work would be featured.
That's the idea, Walter. It's the only way to gain recognition. All the big art critics and art dealers would be there, it would be an event.
Yeah then you could unload  sell this stuff for a lot more.
Carla and I will guide you, help develop and evolve your work...maybe lead you toward something more abstract...
Abstract? With his talent for realism?
You see the direction his realism takes! It's unhealthy!
Would you pose for me for free?
Well, it all depends, Leonard...
That's word for word.
Is it? I've forgotten.
Here you go, enjoy.
I hope this was made with egg whites!
It was.
What's this sauce! I'm lactose intolerant.
Don't worry it's a nondairy sauce made from soy milk.
Hm.
Put it in the middle of the room!
When did you make this, Walter?
Walter...I can't believe it.
I'm honored to know this man.
Don't worry about him...what have you got?
A thing I made.
I've never seen anything like this, maybe Segal, but nothing with such... dichotomy... It's very good, Walter 
Honest?
You really like it?
Of course...it's wonderful.
Great! What is it?
It's a...full length lifesize figure!
What's it called?
Murdered man.
It's called spontaneity, Leonard. Get with the program.
Yeah it was all just an accident.
Look at the size of it!
It's not really that big I got it on kind of a stand...
Let's see it.
Uh, well, I'm a little nervous, I never did a person before.
You can do anything you want if you set your mind to it.
Like it? It's a masterpiece. I've never seen anything like it before... and I hope I never see anything like it again. Walter smiles and looks at his creation 
Me too.
How did you ever find it all in yourself, Walter?
It wasn't easy.
Gee..twenty five dollars for something I made!
Now you're a professional!
Hi Walter.
Carla...
These guys came by to help me try out some of my new organic recipes.
Oh...
What's up, Walter?
I came over to see you. I brought something...I wanted to show you.
Oh yeah?
Yeah. Can some of you guys help me?
Is it murdered man?
Better!
You think she's better than Murdered Man?
Well I can't say that Walter! She's incomparable. They're both great.
More champagne, your majesty?
Here here...
Where where...
There there...
May I please have another little kiss?
Walter! Jeez!
Sorry...
Did you hear what he said?
Yes Walter.
All about me...
It's true, isn't it?
Every word...
I know what it is to be ignored.
Tell us what you're going to make next, Walter.
I'm gonna make the most wildest wittiest things you ever seen... gonna make big statues and li'l statues, tall statues n' short statues...
I mean, you look so pretty.
Thank you.
Are you ready?
Ready? We've got plenty of time.
I know. But I wanted to talk to you.
Goodbye.
Bye!
Nice night out...
Hm...
Well...what did you want to talk to me about?
Well...wwhat kind of people do you like, Carla?
Oh, I don't know. Smart people. Creative people I guess.
You think I'm creative?
Of course I do!
That means you like me!
I like you very much, Walter.
I thought you did on account of you kissed me the other night!
Well that was for your sculpture of the girl. Your nude in the chair.
Carla 
 even though Leonard's always asking you to go out with him and I  just 
What are you trying to say?
Uh... ...how long have you been thinking about this, Walter?
Oh...ffor a long time. Ever since you first came to the club.
But you gotta love me! Why do you think I made that statue of Alice?!
Walter, I'm sorry...
You just can't be sorry! I wanna  I wanna marry you!
Now calm down Walter! Now, let's go in there, and when the show's over, maybe we can talk about it.
No! I want to talk about it now!
Walter... I don't want to hurt your feelings but there is no way we're ever going to get...together. You know what I mean?
Why not?!
Because... We're just friends. That's all. Just friends. WALTER I get it. I see the whole thing now. No one knows if Walter Paisley is born!
Jeez, what is your problem all of a sudden?
Oh sure, let's string along poor Walter, see how far it will take us!
I'm sorry about what I said before.
Forget it.
I've been thinking... Carla, would you do one favor for me?
Just about anything, Walter.
Would you let me make...a statue of you?
Would you really like to? That would make me very happy.
Ok...tonight. I'll make a statue of you tonight, OK?
Walter...there's...
What?
There's...a body inside that statue!
Walter...stay away from me!
Don't you see Carla? I made them immortal.
Alright we're clear.
Anything new?
Not really. One girl who fit the descrip came in, kinda skinny, brunette, didn't see much changing hands.
Is the manager cooperating?
Yeah, he's keeping an eye out, said he'd call us if he sees anything. That's about it for tonight.
Alright I got you, man. It's my turn for freak patrol.
You know it. I'm out of here.
What the hell's going on?
Everyone wants to meet the bus boy.
What did he do?
He made a cat.
See you later 
Righto.
Don't you work here?
Not anymore!
Would you like to do me?
I just might.
I'd be glad to help. For $50 an hour.
That's not true I am a sculptor!
Oh yeah?
If you were an artist you could have created something!
I'm going home!
What are you doing here?
I wanted to apologize for being nasty to you this evening.
Listen schmuck, why don't you get out of here and let me go to bed!
I didn't finish talking to you!
Well I'm done talking to you, what do I have to do, draw you a diagram!
I decided to make a female figure after all! I want you to pose for it.
Well I'm touched. You're serious, aren't you?
Yes. Fifty dollars an hour, right?
Yeah.
Tonight.
What, right now?
Uhhuh.
It's kind of dark 
Shh!
I'm almost ready 
Sit in this chair, and I'll pose you.
That doesn't look like very much clay.
Oh it's enough...
Are you nervous, Walter?
Nno...
Not even a little bit?
I already told you I'm not.
When's the last time you had a totally nude girl in your room...
Um...
Without a stitch of clothing on, sitting and facing you...
A girl with a body like mine?
You're breaking my concentration!
Walter can I ask you something?
What!
Are you a virgin?
It's just an innocent question. Besides I just wanted to clarify your intentions.
Whaddya mean?
Well I just wanted to make sure you know, fully and completely, that you're never gonna get any from me, at least in this lifetime.
Look  This pose is all wrong!
I'll pose any way you want.
That's enough. That's enough.
I'm sorry.
Are you okay?
Yes, I'm sorry.
Don't be silly. What are you sorry about?
The way you were looking at me, I just went.
I just need you for another minute now, so we can shoot from behind towards me, and, um...
Uhhuh.
...that way we have someplace to go when we cut. And I just sit here, I nod my head and look nerdy.
So he bought this Peugeot sedan at a greatly reduced price while he was there in charge of the White House Advance Team.
How come you're not chasing it down yourself?
Look, I'm junior man  and it's your beat.
Boy, that's nice...I wish we could all deal with each other like this. I'll check it. Anything I can do for you?
This is my first time at the White House. Is there any chance to look at where he works and the rest of it?
I didn't have the guts to ask when I first came up. I'll get you a great tour.
The last time I was with someone we went through this awful mutual disease questionnaire but I guess it beats getting paranoid the next day. Okay, I'll go first. I haven't...
It would never occur to me to worry at all about you.
Where's the bathroom?
Through the closet.
I converted a bedroom  this stuff builds up. Wait till you've been doing this sixteen years.
I'm not knocking it. It's a great solution. Not only the storage but you can see everything you have.
This is very awkward.
Go ahead  what?
Ummm  it's dumb dorm stuff but I see Tom around you a lot and this is such a small office and I'd like to see him outside of work, unless there's some reason for you to mind... in which case I just won't do anything.
God Almighty  Whew. Do I mind? Why do I mind? I do mind. What a shock  I don't have a right to... I don't think I like him. I know I don't respect him...So what am I talking about  what am I saying to you?
You're saying stay away from him.
I can't be.
I sure know that feeling. Terrific work today.
Right back to you.
Hi.
I just wanted to tell you how great you were. My name's Tom Grunick.
Thank you. They hated me. I don't hate them.
Well, they say if you can reach even one person, it means something... And you did that.
Hi. I was worried I was early.
I was a lot earlier.
I kept thinking what a great break it was for me to get to see you tonight. More than a great break, maybe just what I needed...just when I needed it...Angel of mercy  godsend...lifesaver...what?
I like "godsend."
I haven't been in news that long. I've just been looking for the right person to talk to. I have about two thousand questions for you.
If we could just eat first.
Totally understood. Totally wrong of me to talk shop after the day you've had. Totally sorry.
Nooo. If I could just have a roll, I'd be okay.
Another thing I can't stand is ...when White House reporters bullshit with each other after a briefing and then one of them has a theory and the other quotes it in his story as "White House" sources say...
That actually goes on...
Yes. My room is down here  I'm not tired. Do you want to keep talking?
Yes, sure.
Come on...Even I'm not that hard on myself.
No, I really got this job on a fluke and wait till you hear where it ends up.
I was doing sports at the station. The newspaper ran this untrue story that I was leaving and they got all these tons of protest mail. So they made me anchor.
So great  right?
Except I'm no good at what I'm being a success at.
How are you at back rubs?
Listen to me. You keep on thinking I'm somebody ho lacks...confidence. That's not it. I know I can talk well enough and I'm not bad at making contact with people, but I don't like the feeling that I'm pretending to be a reporter. And half the time I don't really get the news I'm talking about. It isn't that I'm down on myself. Trust me, I stink.
I trust you.
I didn't even have the chance to get really good at sports. I wasn't bad. I thought I was starting to do interesting features but hockey is big at the station and...
What about the obvious remedy? Reversing things. Maybe getting a job on a newspaper.
I don't write.
But that didn't stop me from sending out audition tapes to bigger stations and the networks.
Well, come on  it is your life. Nobody is tying you to the fast track. Did you go to college?
One year...almost one year.
So, you're not well educated and you have almost no experience and you can't write.
It's hard for me to advise you since you personify something that I truly think is dangerous.
Uhhuh.
I agree with you  you're not qualified. So get qualified. You can insist on being better prepared. You don't have to just leave it as... 'I don't write. I'm not schooled. I don't understand the news I'm reading. But at least I'm upset about it, folks.'
Whoa, this was a mistake.
Just what do you want from me, anyway? Permission to be a fake? Stop whining and do something about it.
I never told you the reason I was telling you everything for.
Hey?
Those audition tapes I sent out... I've been hired by your network for the Washington bureau. So I'll probably see you at work. Sorry.
They said it would be okay if...
We're working here!! You can stand over in the uh, uh, uh...
I'm sorry if I was in the way. It was totally impressive. Great piece.
You weren't. Thanks. How does it feel being here?
I can't believe I'm really here. No kidding. If you're through work now 
No. Aaron and I go to Central America on Wednesday  so I'm cramming.
I thought you were incredible in there. I know how much I have to learn. I'd really  a lot  appreciate it...if...
'Really a lot appreciate it...'
You make me nervous. Anyway if I can pick your brain 
I can't help you, sorry. I'm not here to teach remedial reporting.
And it has nothing to do with the fact I left your room instead of staying there?
Hi.
How's it going?
Can I buy you dinner sometime soon?
I just got back  I don't know which end is up.
Okay.
So he was indicted?
Yes.
Give it to him  so we can concentrate.
Ah, I don't want any credit. Bobbie and I serve anonymously.
I've got another story.
Some public official skipped a week on his Christmas Club?
The House Armed Service Committee has a secret report which says that the General Stillwell tank the Army has dumped a fortune into plain won't work. I have it cold, confirmed. They have five million dollars in this thing already.
Billion.
Okay, billion...right, of course. They told me I could have any producer I wanted  and I want you.
It's the firs time I've seen you dressed like this. You look so clean and pretty.
What do you mean clean?
At work there's always this sort of film over you.
Well, thumps like me leave appearance to guys like you.
You're great at taking the edge off a good time.
You okay?
Yes. Just don't say anything mean for a while. Thanks.
Nervous?
Excited.
We're going to George. Say 'the Joint Chiefs are meeting  we have George Weln at the Pentagon'.
George Weln is at the Pentagon where the attack launched by the lone Libyan pilot has resulted in a massive movement of military might.
You're an amazing woman. What a feeling having you inside my head.
Yeah. It was an unusual place to be.
Indescribable  you knew just when to feed me the next thing, just a split second before I needed it. There was a rhythm we got into, like great sex.
You have to celebrate with me, don't you? Everybody's going to that bar on the corner, 'Caps.'
I'm going over to Aaron's. Maybe I'll hoop up with all of you later. How long do you think you'll be there?
Jane?
Yeah?
I'll wait for you till seven.
Okay.
I didn't think you'd make it.
Well, I thought I'd check if all of you were still here. I'll just go in and join the gang and you two go on.
There's no gang in there  We were the last ones.
Well, I'll go in and have a bite.
Jennifer, you want to have another drink?
Hey, I know how to have a burger by myself. I feel like a little solitude.
Come on, I'll buy you a drink. There's a big thing over at the Italian embassy.
I'm not sure I'd be good company tonight.
I'll be the judge of that.
It's much too soon for you to have this kind of buzz around you.
Do I have to stand here in the middle and meet them all?
I'll get you through. Move and smile. And smile and move...
Maybe we could just sit here  talk a little?
Okay. You didn't like the party, huh?
Too many smart people in one room  it's not healthy...
I'm going to have to do a story from beginning to end on my own.
Eventually. Does it have to be right now?
Believe me, I wouldn't be doing this unless it was absolutely necessary. I have an idea for something.
What?
I just read about it in a magazine and it affected me.
Well, what is it?
If I tell you, can you manage not to put it down or tell me why it won't work or is in bad journalistic taste or anything like that?
Yes, Tom  I think I can manage.
I'm not sure I dialed right  Jane?
Jane, yes. Tom? Tom, is that you? Is this Tom?
Yes.
I had to sleep fast so I took two allergy pills to help me...I'm sorry...Hey, you called me.
It's not important.
Says who? Not important  hahaha. I was dreaming  Oh, no  can't tell  how embarrassing for me. Gosh.
What pills did you take? You sound more like someone on a general anesthetic. Maybe I'd better speak to you tomorrow.
Nooo. Is it your story?
No. Are you going to the Correspondents' Dinner on Saturday?
Why, you need me for the story?
No. Were you going to you?
Uhhuh.
Maybe I'll get off work. I'd like to go.
Oh, good.
We can go together.
So you like me, huh?
I like you as much as I can like anyone who thinks I'm an asshole.
So what did you think?
It moved me. I did relate to it  I really did. It was unusual for you to cut to yourself when you tear up  and that might not have been my choice...but it's real and it got me...and I think a lot of the time I'm too conservative about that kind of stuff. Okay?
Yeah.
It's incredible who's here.
Who?
Me!
Suppose I go in for a little while and you wait in the lobbybar. How's that?
Good. That's it...See you.
You're not going to take off on me, are you?
Uhuh.
You okay?
Great.
Why can't I let go of this woman?
Well...
At least kiss me when you do that.
You just can't stop editing me. Huh?
This is hysterical.
I was half hoping I wouldn't have a good time tonight. You know why?
Because you're nuts.
Right, right  Isn't she fun to tease?
I don't remember saying anything like that  exactly...I don't know why I just did.
Oh let's see  wait a minute, well, I can think of two reasons.
What?
Three...I just thought of a third... If you talk about it, you don't have to do it.
That's not it.
Good...Another is you're trying to make it all about sex and heat and nothing else.
I forgot all about Aaron. I promised to stop by and see how he did.
I'd like to know. I'll go along.
No. I'll see you at your apartment as soon as I can.
What happened?
Don't run off  like everything's settled the minute you make up your mind.
He might be weird  he can talk more freely if I go alone  why's that so hard to understand?
It's not that it's hard. I just want you to give me a minute to catch up.
Okay. Sorry. Don't yell at me like that again, you scared the life out of me.
Hi. It's me.
Where are you?
I can't get away just yet. I'm at Aaron's.
Well, when?
I'm not sure. It seems like he had sort of a mishap on the news.
I know. I taped it.
It wasn't as bad as he think, was it?  it wasn't unprecedented or anything?
Not if you count 'Singing in the Rain.' Do him a favor and don't treat it like a tragedy. You want me to talk to him?
Hi, again. Sorry about...
No. That sounds more important. Let's forget about tonight.
I don't know if that's absolutely necessary.
I've got my father coming through tomorrow anyway. I should get some sleep.
Uhhuh.
I'll see you at the office. Good night.
Hello?
Yes.
Okay. Good night.
Good night??!
Jane, I'm not some chore you have to finish so you can stay on schedule.
Okay, great, Grunick  Easy shots now  huh? Good night.
I feel terrible about what happened. What did he say?
He  uh  said he liked you because you looked like you had  fire and honesty.
No. Did he really?
Yes. Then he said a really weird thing...
What?
That it would be a treat to make someone like you feel better... He gets like that sometimes.
That's so perfectly...It really makes me feel a little faint... Whooo.
Maybe I haven't been here long enough. But, hey, congratulations on the promotion.
How can you say that to me?
Sorry. I can't stand here feeing bad that I don't feel worse. This has happened at every station I ever worked for. Look, I think it's crazy for you to come in here tomorrow and start a new job. I have a week to get to my job. Let's get the hell away to some island fast and find out how we are together away from this.
Well, I just think that' an extraordinary proposal.
That's yes?
That's more than 'yes'  that's 'you bet.'
Then give me a minute...
You fucking...
Why?
I saw the taped outtakes of the interview with the girl. I know you 'acted' your reaction after the interview.
I felt funny about it afterwards. It's verboten, huh? I thought since I did it for real the first time  but I get you. That's not the reason you're not coming?
Of course it's the reason. It's terrible what you did.
We disagree on how Godawful it was. Why don't you come with me and we can disagree and get a tan at the same time?
Jesus, if you're glib about this I'm going to lose it. I was up all night and...
Jane, Jane, Jane, Jane, Jane...
It made me ill. You could get fired for things like that.
I got promoted for things like that.
Working up tears for a new piece cutaway...You totally crossed the line between...
It's hard not to cross it; they keep moving the little sucker, don't they?
It just proves that the difference we have are...
This is a oneway argument. We've got six days; if you go and we fight and we hate it  we'll come home. If you don't go? Well, that's a much bigger deal. I go to London right after that. So, it'd be very big deal if you stay here. The plane's boarding. You're good at deadline. Here's your ticket.
It's amazing. You commit this incredible breach of ethics and you act as if I'm nitpicking. Try and get this. When you edited that...
I'm leaving now. Gate 43.
That's not going to be the way we say goodbye. Even though I think what you did was rotten  it's not all impersonal. You mean something to me.
You keep coming after me and looking down on me. It's starting to make me batty.
I don't wan to discuss work.
Well, let's do a special report on that...I mean that's news.
I knew what you meant.
What I don't know, I can learn and what I know, nobody can teach. Excuse me for saying it about myself, but I think it's true. What do you think? Never mind what you think.
You're lucky I came after you so you got that off your...
Yes, I am. Thanks. I mean it.
It's okay.
So you have an extra bathing suit, huh?
You want to come?
It's just that one of the few things I'm not confused about is what I was saying downstairs, that...
Then you should stay here.
It's better when you let me say it.
Take it easy.
Why did I have to do this to myself? Watch you take off. Call me if you need anything.
Well, why not? Hey, what is this? My life's rushing in front of my eyes.
A picnic?
I thought for ol' Cliff here  Look at you? You're more adorable than your pictures. Look what I got for you.
What a great surprise. I didn't think we had a chance. I heard you wanted to stay in Washington.
Well, there's a guy, but he says he'll fly up a lot.
Well, we should talk. You going to have time for dinner? I'd like you to meet Lila.
I'm sorry because I was looking forward to that, but I' m going back in a few hours.
Okay...It's so good to see you.
Tom isn't ready for the job you're about to hand him. Not near ready. Not by the longest shot. Aaron's spent six weeks in Tripoli, he's interviewed Gaddafi  he reported on the Eightone story. I think he's essential to do the job we're capable of and I think it's my responsibility to tell you that.
Okay, that's your opinion. I don't agree.
It's not opinion.
You're just absolutely right and I'm absolutely wrong?
It must be nice to always believe you know better. To think you're always the smartest person in the room.
No, it's awful. Oh my, it's awful.
I had no idea she was this good.
Fill for a second.
I don't know a recent Saturday I've sold more. You didn't think I'd sell that health restaurant, did you?
No. Not even you.
Why so glum?
I don't know.
Go ahead.
No, nothing. I've got a problem, I guess.
Were you bothering by those waitresses making a fuss?
No. But, honest. What are you supposed to say when they keep talking about your looks? I don't even know what they mean  "Beat them off with a stick."
You know, Tom, I feel a little proud when people comment on your looks. Maybe you should feel that way.
Proud? I'm just embarrassed that I like when they say those things.
As long as that's your only problem you're...
It's not.
I got my report card. Three Cs, two Ds and an incomplete.
Oh my. I see you studying so hard, Tom. What do you think the problem is?
I'll just have to try harder. I don't know. I will. I will. I will. I will.
Thanks, Dad, this talk helped. Will you sign it, please?
Would it help if I got you a tutor?
That would be great. It better help. What can you do with yourself if all you do is look good?
...am starting to get jealous. I read in the newspapers about the Italian strike and riots in Milan. I hope you weren't...
Honey?...
Jane  For God's sake... Look, it's time for you to go to sleep.
I just have two more pen pals and then I'm done.
You don't have to finish tonight.
Nooo. This way the rotation stays the same.
Finish quickly. I don't want you getting obsessive about these things. Good night.
Ernie, they're calling from work.
Tell me I'm on the way in.
It's Paul.
What?
They fired me.
How horrible. We'll be fine. You'll be fine. Stay here with me  we'll go for a drive, have some drinks, make happy plans.
No. They're firing even more people than they said. Some will want to talk. It could help.
I could use somebody to talk to on a day like this. Sorry. Go ahead.
Bye, sweetie.
Okay, sweetie.
They're not really going to call security are they?
No, I don't think so.
How do I get out of here?
Follow me.
You talked me into it.
I've been doing some morning show stuff, but mostly radio  that doesn't bother me. I'm in no rush for anything. It's just the snotty attitude, even if I have it coming, it's still...
Bad manners.
Yes. That's right.
I know...I mean you didn't do anything special for me tonight. You just had what I think are good manners, decency. And it really makes me want to be nice back and it has nothing to do with any homosexual thing. Honestly. Because I don't know if you've homosexual or not and  you're not, are you?
No...no.
One's enough.
I really have to go.
Okay. At least let me show my appreciation. The Secretary of Labor is going to be indicted on Wednesday. For the graft thing he supposedly did before he was appointed.
What?
Yes, it's true. They're going to make it public Wednesday but isn't it a big deal for you to have it a day and a half early?
Yes. How do you know?
My roommate's very social  somebody from Justice was over and...I always hear things before they happen. Hey, and from now on, so do you.
...and the White House is hoping to keep a lid on it for a few days till they figure out what to do.
Thanks a lot, Buddy.
Oh, please. So they were really impressed with you at work.
Not impressed exactly  but a break in the clouds.
I see the change in you  I see it.
Forgive me, but it really is intoxicating being a news source.
Nobody else had it.
I wish it were you giving the story.
That's okay.
What if we just don't tell them anything anymore unless they let you do the story?
No. Really...don't worry about it.
Okay. And look, in the future I can call you when I have news for you. Don't feel you have to spend time with me just to get the information. Well, that wasn't as hard to say as you thought, was it, Buddy?
What do you mean? You're one of the few people in this town I can talk to.
Hey, Buddy, don't do that anymore.
Okay.
Is everything all right?
Yes. You didn't have to come here. It's just that I'm going to anchor this special report on this Libyan thing...
Anchor?
Yes, stop! I wondered if you could find out anything about what's happening. What's wrong?
I broke up with my roommate  He was really the magnet for everyone who knew anything.
Oh.
Look, I can start up with him again if you really...
No. I'm doing fine...Look.
Good. He's on the world's longest ego trip, let him take it alone.
Hey, okay. Look Buddy  I've got to go to work.
...goodbye then.
I'll speak to you.
Well, who knows. Just let m tell you what my favorite teacher ever, told me  'Don't be afraid to be wonderful.'
Go back to 316, Bobbie. The sound bite in the cab  it starts, 'I don't know how I'll feel...'
We could...
Please, Bobbie, we're pushing.
Play back the last line...
He said something about...
Let me hear it!
Okay, Bobbie, just a twosecond dissolve to the Rockwell.
Should I...
Just a twosecond dissolve.
Do you want him all the way to the car?
No stop where he's all besieged.
Because...
Right there, Bobbie.
You know, I like Tom, because hi...
Bobbie, please.
You don't have time. Not a chance.
I'll be right down. It's right tight.
I've got to tell Ernie...because there isn't enough time.
Yes, there is.
What did he say?
I'll never tell.
Yeah, I know, I went back and forth on it.
I liked it. He's not afraid to be human.
Tell George and Jessica to try and cover everything without Tom having to ask additional questions.
And Bobbie says...
Did you hear what I just said  do you have that? Take a breath.
Yes.
It's Aaron.
Yes?
Do you know you're the second woman in network news history to produce?
No, I'm not. I'm the fourth. Joan Richmond. Pauline Fredericks got that credit once on a U.N. special and there's Susan Zirinsky.
What are you dressed up for? Oh, that's right  because the Evening News is here this week.
I spent a fortune on this.
They canned me. Well, my brother will feel great  now he's not the only screwup.
It's started.
Jane?
Yes.
Well, darling, if it gets any better than that, I'm going to have to bring you up here to New York.
Thanks. I just wish you'd kept the first twenty seconds.
But thanks.
Well, the visual with the boots at the end was just perfect.
Aaron should be hearing this so I have an extra witness.
Well, you always want to give the credit away, do you?
No, I don't. He happens to deserve the credit. He's right here.
I'll speak to you soon
Just when do you start, telling people?
Almost immediately.
I'd like to take everyone out after the show.
Bill...This is hard on all of us and it's no time for compliments. But I think it's extraordinary of you to come down here for this.
If we're not here for each other during the tough time, we're not a news organization.
This is a brutal layoff...And all because they couldn't program Wednesdays.
You can make it a little less brutal by knocking a million dollars or so off your salary.
Okay. I just wanted you to know.
What is she shooting?
Norman Rockwell's 'Homecoming.'
Oh, that's nice... We'll need some new lines.
Norman Rockwell's enduring portrait of a <u>Homecoming</u> The return of a fighting man has always been one of the more moving ceremonies of war... Tearful women, proud men, excited children. But J.D. Singer was right  his homecoming was no big deal.
We have a minute and a half. It's my responsibility to tell them we won't be ready.
I was a little nervous there for a minute.
Oh, come on  tell us another.
Goodbye, Paul.
Take care, Paul. It takes a certain kind of courage for you to say that in front of the President of the News Division.
You think anyone who's proud of the work we do is an ass kisser.
No. I think anyone who puckers their lips and presses it against his boss' buttocks and then smooches is an ass kisser.
My gosh, and for a while there, I was attracted to you.
Just a few questions?
No.
We came from Washington.
Move away from me.
How long has it been since you've been home.
Fuck. Fuck. Fuck. Fuckes. Snot... Fuckee. You want to use that?
It depends on how big a news day it is.
All this business of war  do you get scared?
Uhuh. I'm a little freaked right now about seeing my father though.
I saw the smile  good piece.
I'm gonna go look at it again.
I had the strangest thing happen yesterday. Anne and I have been married what?  Thirtysix years... Everything fine  two days after the promotion came through, I was checking myself in the mirror and she was making a face at me behind my back. So yesterday I looked in the mirror and she was doing it again.
You didn't say anything to her?
That's it. I resign as of now.
Stop it.
I'll tell you what. I'll stay if Tom knows how to spell Gaddafi.
Oh, I was just writing you a note. What do you say we take a walk?
Outside?
Yeah 
I don't know if we have any younger man more respected in our operation than you.
Just tell me what's really going on. I think we know each other well enough for me to expect that.
We know each other well enough for me to care how I put something to you which could wipe you out. So I will phrase things the way I think they should be phrased. All right?
Wipe me out?
Anyway. I want you to think of this as...
Just blunt talk, okay? I'd really appreciate bluntness.
Upper management thinks you're dull.
Aaron, I've never seen them like this  I think Paul's nervous about his own job and for some reason he thinks you only appeal to...
Wait. Bullshit me a little...I'm beginning to appreciate it.
I'm no suggesting the worst will happen...but someone with your brilliance gets nibbles about other jobs and maybe, the next time that happens, down the road  you should look into it.
Ah, damn  the fucking jerks  My, God. They want to fire me.
All I know is that they've got to fire a large number of people... and they're not going by seniority. There's a recklessness in the air. They...
Do one thing to me? Get me one shot at anchoring the Weekend News  they've never seen me do it. I think it could turn them around.
I could do it this Saturday  everyone wants off for the Correspondents' Dinner.
Do it then.
Please prepare carefully. This couldn't come at a better time.
Prepare what? You have Saturday's news handy?
It's been a while since you read the news  I'll have somebody work with you. Just on superficial performance things.
Okay. I think I'd better be alone for a while.
I understand. I'll go with you.
Thanks.
It's what he did. I'm proud of him.
They told me they'd keep me because they could plug me into any story and my salary was in line.
The costefficient reporter.
So I quit.
Ready.
Your hair's a little funny.
It's an ethnic curl, I can't do anything about it.
In front of a little  it's a bit... You want a mirror?
No  Don't worry about it. Let's do this.
Okay.
In other times, for other purposes, there might be a band and bunting here at the bus depot for J.D. Singer's return from war. He...
Oh, you mean use him...That's nice. Okay.
I'll put him in the low corner of the frame  good.
In other times, with other purposes, there might be a band and bunting here at the bus depot for J.D. Singer's return from war. Last week he was decorated by a president for heroism in a war. But it was the civil war  in Angola  and he was in it for the money.
Hi. Turn on your TV... <u>Good Morning America</u>, the <u>Morning News</u> and <u>Today</u> are all about to talk to Arnold Schwarzenegger and I think he's live on at least two of them.
At six o'clock on the wakeup news they used the wrong missile graphic.
Now listen, Arnold just said that he's been making three million a movie now. But he's not ever gonna change. He's still the same person when he was making two million dollars a movie. He feels no different. He also bought a brand new condo with Maria, they gonna furnish tastefully.
A half hour in the lobby.
Okay, I'll see you in the lobbies [<i>sic</i>].
Where's where I asked him about being scared? You should work on your speech.
No. It makes me nervous to think about it. Let's do this.
He must have been greatlooking, right?
Why do you say that?
Because nobody invites a bad looking idiot to their bedroom.
Okay. Let's do me.
Sure.
Okay. I feel like I'm slipping but do people who are actually slipping feel that way or is it always the really good people who are moving up who invariably think they're slipping because their standards are so high?
This conversation is not worthy of you.
I'd give anything if that were true.
Good night.
Wouldn't this be a great world if insecurity and desperation made us more attractive? If needy were a turnon?
Call if you get weird.
They didn't hire Peter Stiller from the <u>Times</u> and he had a great audition tape.
You want to start going over who they could have gotten? They can't take on people like this for network news. For God's sake. What's going on?
Nine seconds.
Eleven and a half.
Oh, God. Back it, Bobbie  Bobbie?
I didn't sleep. They're giving me less and less air time. They don't think I'm at all anchor material.
If we don't get to their camp soon, we won't be able to tape the supplies coming in.
Last time Paul was sick they gave Connie the weekend news instead of me.
You spend too much time  much too much worrying about that crap... Oh good.
Okay. Great line at the end.
Did you shoot their boots?
Of course.
We can cut back at the end.
To the pan of the supplies boxes 
Can you believe it? I just risked my life for a network that tests my face with focus groups.
I write for you sometimes.
Not because you have to.
What happened?
I'll tell you later  where you going to watch from?
Watch? 
I'll come by your place, right after...drink, take pills... Love you.
I think the pilot that shot down the Libyan in 1981 is stationed right here. Maybe you could get him  and maybe Tom should say that our F14 is one of the hardest planes to fly. They're nicknamed 'Tomcats'.
Thanks. The F14 is one of the most difficult planes to master. Oh, you call them 'Tomcats' and in the 70's the first crop had a number of crashes.
Me again. Hi. Listen Gaddafi doesn't foam at the mouth or anything. When you speak to him he's not at all nuts. He seems like a leader  very impressive, selfcontrol...that's what's so strange.
Right and we have the '81 pilot on the way in  Nobody else will have him.
You're welcome. Sow how does it feel to...I know you gotta go  Me too. We're very busy here.
Well, whatever you think.
I figured out exactly why it is I'm so hung up on getting a chance at weekend anchor...It's because if I do that well, they'll pay me more, treat me great and my life will be better. That's why.
Sounds like you may be on to something.
Which means I'm at their mercy and who wants that?...I'm not going to tell you where this thought led me... Anyway, well, why not tell you?  it's a happy thing. In the middle of all this I start to think about something that does nothing but make me feel good and makes immediate sense and that's you ...And I'll stop here but, Jane, I'd give anything if you were two people so I could call up the one who's my friend and tell her about the one I'm in I...I don't think I should go any further. Come on  I'll walk you to the corner.
You know you've had a strange day... I'd sleep on all these things you've been thinking.
Absolutely...You go have a good time... You have some place to go?
Yes.
Good.
Jesus, Jane. How long have you been here?
A long time. I was restless. Will you crack my neck?
Aaah   ello. You sure they said the management meeting? They want me to be at the management meeting.
They're not that dumb, after all.
Tom...why don't I meet you there? I've got some last minute stuff I've got to take care of...Hey, how did you resolve your dilemma  did you rent the tux or buy it...I knew it. How much? Wow...Okay...See you there...
I didn't know you were going with him.
Did you bring your grey suit?
Yes...I was thinking that way too... Which tie?
I read about it  that's how you can make sure you don't put on too much perfume...
Could you at least pretend that this is an awkward situation for you  me showing up while you're getting ready for a date.
It's not a date. It's coworkers going to a professional conclave.
Because this is important  so don't just be polite. I'd really like to look...what's the word I'm looking for?...
As good as humanly possible.
Yes.
Well, the line of the jacket  No really....just very nice...just right. I wish I could be there.
Me too...Hey...if it gets dull a little before 11:00, drop by the studio.
I'm not sure I'll be able to...I...
<u>If</u>...if not, I'll have the tape...I'll wait for you at my apartment.
Okay, great  good luck.
Thanks, Jane. Have a good time tonight.
You too.
How'd it go?
You didn't see it or speak to anybody?
No.
Then it went well.
Did it really go well?
Define your terms.
Do you feel good about it?
No.
Do others feel that you did well?
No.
Then what was good about it?
I lost six pounds...
Aaron, will you tell me?
It was great...writing my little first rate copy, sitting on my jacket, punching my one thought. But I had this historic attack of flop sweat so they'll never let me another again. Oh, I lost one of your shoulder pads  how was your evening anyway?
What do you mean, flop sweat?  you're making too much out of it...I'll bet you were the only one aware of it...
People phoned in.
Stop kidding. I want to know what happened.
I'm not kidding.
There were complaining phone calls because you were sweating?
No, nice ones worried that I was having a heart attack.
If all that happened, how come you're so chipper?
I don't know. At a certain point it was so off the chart bad  it got funny. My central nervous system was telling me something. Jane  sweat running down my face  makeup falling into my eyes  people turning this fusillade of blow dryers on me  all so I could read introductions to other people who were covering stories which is what I like to do anyway. And I'm chipper because you finally showed up. I thought I'd cook for us. Tequila and eggs sound good?
I have to be somewhere.
I told what's his name  Tom  that I'd meet him.
Call him  I mean it can wait, right?
I don't know. I may be in love with him.
No!!!!!
Don't go.
This is important to me.
Yeah. Well...I think it is important for you too. Sit down.
What?
Let me think a second. It's tough.
Aaach...Jane... Let's take the part that has nothing to do with me. Let's let me be your most trusted friend, the one that gets to say awful things to you. You know?
Yes, I guess. Yes.
You can't end up with Tom because it goes totally against everything you're about.
Yeah  being a basket case.
I know you care about him. I've never seen you like this about anyone, so please don't take it wrong when I tell you that I believe that Tom, while a very nice guy, is the Devil.
This isn't friendship.
What do you think the Devil is going to look like if he's around? Nobody is going to be taken in if he has a long, red, pointy tail. No. I'm semiserious here. He will look attractive and he will be nice and helpful and he will get a job where he influences a great Godfearing nation and he will never do an evil thing...he will just bit by little bit lower standards where they are important. Just coax along flash over substance... Just a tiny bit. And he will talk about all of us really being salesmen. And he'll get all the great women.
I think you're the Devil.
No. You know that I'm not.
How?
Because we have the kind of relationship where if I were the Devil, you'd be the only one I told.
You were quick enough to get Tom's help when...
Yes, yes. I know. Right. And if it had gone well for me tonight, maybe I'd be keeping quiet about all this...I grant you everything but give me this...he does personify everything you've been fighting against...And I'm in love with you. How do you like that?  I buried the lead.
I've got to not say that aloud; it takes too much out of me.
Sit down, stop.
Don't say anything about anything.
Hi. Will I ever sing again?
Bastard, sneak, quitter.
Speaking.
I just found out. You didn't say anything to me? You just resign? Will you meet me now?  No, now! I'm going away tomorrow. Please.
Why not try it for a few weeks?
Stop. Ernie thought I was good too  he couldn't help. My agent has a hot prospect  the number two station in Portland. The general manager says he wants to be every bit as good as the networks. Personally, I think he should aim higher.
Tell me the God's honest truth  are you leaving because of me? Because if you are...
Ernie told this story. How he used to write obits and when the people in town called him up with death notices, he cried. He was till that way when they promoted him out of obits. He says you're lucky if you can get out while you could still cry. I should have quit this place three years ago.
You're just trying to say all great stuff so I'll feel even worse that you're not around.
Let's go...
I just want to sit here longer, I mean the feeling is powerful  why's that?
Maybe the best part of your life is over and you don't want to get up and start the bad part.
You are now required to sit here with me. Come on...be smart for a second  what do you think will happen to us?
Okay, that's very easy. Five, six years from now I'll be in town to collect an award representing the surge in foreign coverage by local stations.
Yes.
I'll be walking with my wife and two children  we'll bump into you on the street, my youngest son will say something and I'll tell him... ...it's not nice to make fun of single, fat ladies.
You won't be able to stay mad at me, right?
I hope so... No. I'm not really mad. I'll miss you, we'll talk, we'll always be friends...we'll get hot for each other every few years at dinner and never act on it, okay?
I think so...They've been talking to me about being Tom's Managing Editor.
Really?
I'm going to take it.
So who's the guy?
Well, we met about three months ago. He works at the surgeon general office. He loves boating. So, he's been getting me into water skiing.
I like it! So, doll, what about you lately?
Well  my wife got this new job...
It's Mr. Buddy Felton?
Yes.
That's your full name?
Yes.
I might as well ask you the questions on tape. Is that all right?
Yes.
You worked at one time as Foreign Service Trainee in the State Department.
I was there two years and was promoted on merit nine times.
Eventually rising to...
Office Bimbo. No, I'm sorry.
You're saying the fact that you're gay had something directly to do with your promotions?
I don't like the word gay.
Which would you prefer?
Ravenous homosexual.
Stop the tape, okay. Forget it, Ellen. Let's call security and get him out.
Shit, shit, shit...
You're almost there, you can do it  can do  can do.
Okay if I watch you tape that interview downstairs?
Yeah.
One source referred to it as a five billion dollar metal sculpture to ugly to look at and too big to bury.
You write this?
...outlaw nation but strangely those who have interviewed Gaddafi find him, in a phrase we like to use in this country, very 'presidential'.
Nice, Jane.
Hi, Aaron...What's doing?
Same old stuff. I'm watching a man who won three Overseas Press Awards pitch an hors d'oeuvre idea.
You want to go out there  get out of this for a second?
Why don't you lead? I'll just follow the flurry you cause.
What did I do to you?
You've made my dreams silly.
How <u>you</u> doing?
Great. Network news, Washington... I love it. What do you do when your real life exceeds your dreams?
Keep it to yourself.
You know the other day I really wanted your reaction to how we did with the Libyan report  I was going to ask but I guess I feel a little intimidated with you.
Oh, stop it.
You can't talk about feeling intimidated when you're on top of the world. It's unseemly.
I'm not buying into any of that. I have a load to learn. I'm not going to act as if...
You have the job you have...
Shut up a second...
Okay. Pretty petty party, isn't it, pal?
I made one rule for myself when this started and I realized I was going to take a lot from you people because of being from sports...
And the rule was...
Never to pretend to know more than I did.
Can you name all the members of the Cabinet?
Okay, let's drop it. I didn't mean I'd take a test for you  I mean if that came up in conversation I'd...
We're conversing...Oh my, the names of the entire Cabinet has slipped my mind. What are they?
Don't name them. Just tell me if you know.
Yes, Aaron. I know the names of the Cabinet.
Okay.
Yes.
There are only ten.
You're feeling good, aren't you?
I'm starting to... We may do the capitols of the states.
Fifty, right?
I'm in a pissy mood. I'm sorry.
What's wrong with it?
Nothing. I think you really blew the lid off nookie.
This is uncomfortable for me  because, well, I don't mean it as a knock, but we approach this differently.
We sure do. I don't mean it as a knock either. Go ahead. I'll just say what I think and you can disregard it if you want.
It just might not work for me because of our different approaches.
Wait.
What?
Your coat jacket is rising up in back.
I don't like being handled.
Sit on it! <u>Now</u> look.
Just don't physically... Fantastic tip  fantastic.
No. That's not going to tell us anything. Let's get this prompter going.
It's not loaded.
I'll find some copy. Be right back.
No. No.
No?
Don't let your eyes go from the beginning of the sentence to the end like that. You don't want to look shifty, do you?
Oh, God, no!
And the left side of your face is the good one. Go again. And try to punch one word or phrase in every sentence  punch one idea a story. Punch  come on 
You were smokin' toward the end there.
The pointers were great. I'll study the tape.
Everybody has one like that. I thought it was great when you started to laugh at the end.
Yeah  well, I'm sorry I'm tying up Jane, I didn't realize you two would be going this late. Sorry.
No. Don't worry about it.
I'll put her on.
What did they do with you?
They booted me out of Washington.
Impossible. There's no system that wouldn't value one of us.
Why? What did they do to you?
You packing up tonight?
Yes. And I'm sorry that they're sending you down for a while, but you'll make it back...Where they sending you?
London.
London. That's a promotion!
I don't think so.
It is. Yes  that's where they had Rorish, for God's sake, before they made him anchor. I can't stand it  they're grooming you for it all and you don't even know it.
Hold it down, okay?
Can I ask you something? You only had one crew on the date rape piece, right?
Yes. You're not going to stick around for the farewell party?
No. I don't know how much fun it will be when Martin Klein and Ernie have to drop off their credentials with the security guard.
This story they won't cover. And if the network doesn't cover it  it must not be important so why worry.
I'm going to miss you  you're a prick in a great way...
You know what I...
No, I liked the way it made me sound. Okay. Be good. So long.
Hi.
Well, this kid couldn't possibly belong to anyone else. What's your name?
I'm just bringing him over to give Jane a look at him 
I thought she'd be here. I'll go with you.
Okay.
I'll see you back at the hotel.
He excels at gratitude.
Are you any closer to a decision?
It's nice to see you.
Congratulations on history's longest winning streak.
If you ever get restless in Portland, let me know.
Why?
Onethree Zebra. Zebra three, I need you.
You see, he's giving it to us anyway.
Zebra, are you there? I'm holding an unconscious at First and St. Marks.
No! It's three o'clock. That can only mean one thing.
Answer the radio Zebra. You know it's that time.
Four times this week I've had him. Aren't there any other units out there? Don't answer the radio. They'll give it to someone else.
Thirteen Zebra. OneThree Zebra. You're going out of service in two seconds.
Look, Frank, when I say don't answer it, that means answer it. You can do that for me at least. Three Zebra.
Yes, Zebra. You'll be driving to the man who needs no introduction, chronic caller of the year three straight and shooting for number four. The duke of drunk, the king of stink, our most frequent flier, Mr. Oh.
Tenfour. Don't go. Not this time.
No we can't. He's got a pulse.
No shit.
The Chinese close in five minutes. Beef lo mein. It's been on my mind since I woke. Whatjathink?
I think the moment that food hits your mouth we'll get a job.
Turn here. You missed it. The Chink is on 3rd.
Oh no!I just remembered.
What?
I'm so stupid. I had beef lo mein last night. I can't eat the same thing two nights in a row. It's almost two o'clock, what the hell am I gonna do? What you getting?
I'm not hungry.
Oh yeah, you don't eat food.
I eat. I just haven't had coffee yet.
Coffee and whiskey, lucky you ain't dead with that diet. Wait, I've got it. Half fried chicken with fries. Let's go, hurry up. Come on.
Turn it off.
What?
You know what. The radio.
You wanted it turned off. There's no such thing as a good fire. People get burned up. They can't breathe.
That's what we're here for. Come on, Frank.
Don't push it, Larry.
You're burned out.
Mr. Oh.
It's Mr. Oh. I'm not answering it.
Relax, it's a street job, easy except for the smell. We'll just throw him in back and zip over to Mercyno blood, no dying, that's how I look at it. He's just a drunk.
It's not our job to taxi drunks around.
They'll just keep calling.
Someone's gonna die someday causa that bum, going to have a cardiac and the only medics will be taking care of Mr. Oh.
Well why didn't you say so?
He's drunk.
Faster! God!
Faster!
Larry, swing over on Eighth. We're gonna hafta run one of these calls.
Relax, will you.
I'm not feeling very well, Larry. I say we go back to the hospital and call it a night.
You have no sick time, Frank. No time of any kind. Everyone knows that.
Take me back, put me to bed; I surrender. We've done enough damage tonight.
You take things too seriously. Look at us, we're cruising around, talking, taking some quiet time, getting paid for it. We've got a good job here.
Yeah, you're right.
Tell me, you ever think of doing anything else?
Sure, I'm taking the captain's exam next year. After the kids are in school, Louise can go back to the post office and, I thought, what the hell, I'll start my own medic service. Out on the Island the volunteers are becoming salaried municipal. It's just a matter of time and who you know. Someday it's going to be Chief Larry calling the shots.
He's crazy.
You really think so?
Jesus, Tom Walls, that crazy motherfucker.
Used to be my partner.
You're in the stomach!
You sure?
You're in the stomach! Let me try.
One more time!
Stomach again.
No way!
It's not worth it, Tom. He's surrendering.
No prisoners. Don't worry, Frank, just a little psychological first aid.
I'm sick, Tom. I need a cure. Vitamin B cocktail, followed by an amp of glucose and a drop of adrenaline. Not as good as beer, but all I got.
Come on, Frank. There's blood spilling in the streets.
These are hard times, Tom.
Yeah. Great, isn't it?
Great to be drunk. Sobriety's killing me.
Look up, Frank. Full moon. The blood's gonna run tonight. I can feel it. Our mission: to save lives.
Our mission is coffee, Tom. A shot of the bull, Puerto Rican espresso.
Tenfour. El Toro de Oro. Blast off.
The cure's not working, Tom. Maybe we should go back to the hospital.
Don't worry, kid. Tom'll take care of you. Put your head out the window, get some of that summer air. Listen to the music. El Toro de Oro. Andale. Pronto.
Tom, where are the Bandaids? This is an ambulance, isn't it?
Look out!
Where you going?
C'mon, Tom. The city's burning.
Whatja doing?
I feel the need, the need for speed. I'm driving out of myself.
The brakes are shot.
I've taken that into consideration.
You okay?
I never felt better in my life.
Mr. Oh.
It's early for him.
That's all right, we're not meant to do Oh tonight. Something is going to happen. I can feel it.
Whadda we bring?
Better bring it all.
Get this, Frankwe got two patients. Number one, the scarecrow outside. Number two misses the railing but breaks both legs on the balcony, then throws himself through a glass window, heads to the bedroom, where he's now passed out.
Well, he's the steakhead of the night, then.
I don't think the fire people can touch him out there.
How's he doing?
I haven't had a chance to see him yet. I'm going to take care of sleeping beauty.
Get ready, Frank. Missed a drug shooting while you were dicking around in there. There's gonna be trauma tonight!
As long as we keep moving. No standing still.
C'mon, look at your screen. Give up some blood!
C'mon, Tom, pick up a job.
You want some bum in the bus terminal? We'll wait for a real call.
Let's get in a fight, then.
Who with?
That's your job. Just keep driving, keep moving. No stopping. We're sharks. We stop too long, we die.
Let's break something, Tom. Let's bust something, bomb something.
What do you want to break?
I don't knowlet's break some windows.
Why?
Destruction, distraction. I feel the need.
You need a reason, Frank. You don't just go around breaking people's windows. That's anarchy.
What's the reason? Give me a reason, Tom.
Let me think.
This guy's been terrorizing the neighborhood for weeks, ever since he got outta jail, wreaking general havoc, contributing to the bad name of the place. The term "menace to society" was made up for him.
He's crazy. He can't help it.
Well, why don't they put him away? Prisons don't want him. I took him to the hospital yesterday and here he is again.
Look at that. Tell me that's a crazy person. Every move is calculated. He knows exactly what he's doing. This is the guy. I've been after him for weeks. He's quick, runs like a rat, tough for one person, but with two of us
Okay, whatta I do?
If he sees me, he'll run, so I'll get out here. You start talking to him about baseball or something while I sneak around behind and get down and you push him. When he falls we get him.
That's ridiculous.
Believe me, it always works. The simpler, the better.
You learn that in the army?
Get the kit! We're gonna tube him!
Frank!
Do it!
Frank!
We're gonna save you, Noel. You're gonna be all right. Do it, Tom! I'll call for fucking backup, I swear!
You're crazy.
He's dead, Rose. Your father passed.
How can that be? He was getting better.
He coded. They shocked him one too many times. I'm sorry.
He was tough. You did all you could.
I'm sorry.
You have to keep the body going until the brain and heart recover enough to go on their own.
Would you like to come in?
Yes.
He got better.
I hate pronouncing people dead over the phone. Better, huh? They're fixed and dilated. He's plant food.
He one of them?
No, that's Noel. Used to be a regular off and on, hasn't been in in a while. He seized and almost codedI gave him a hypertonic solution. He drank so much the kidneys were taking out salt. One for the textbooks.
That guy I brought in yesterday, postcardiac arrest. He's gone.
Burke. You won't believe it. He's showing cognitive signs. He started with spontaneous respiration, now he's fighting to pull out the tube. Had to sedate him. He's in a CAT scan. I'm giving him every test I can: thromboytics, steroids, nitrodrips, heparin.
What do you think?
Who knows? It's all lowerbrainstem activity. The heart refuses to stabilizehe's coded eleven times since he got here. This guy's a fighter. Every time the Valium wears off he starts yanking those restraints.
The family know?
I wanted to bring them in, to see if he'd respond to voices, but they weren't in the waiting room. The guy's daughter was in my face all last night and when I finally have something positive to tell her, she's gone.
Oh Jesus, put her on the monitor. Where's the pediatric code cart? Odette give me that tube. All right, flatlinelet's do CPR. step back, Frank. How many months?
Can't tell. It was a breech, twins. The other one seems okay, though. Marcus is taking him and the mother to Maternity.
You can't believe how much he's improved.
How many times have you shocked him tonight?
Fourteen. We finally got him a room upstairs. Should be up there in a couple of hours.
What do you do, just have someone follow him around with a defribilator?
That's good, Frank. No, but they might surgically implant one, about the size of my thumb. It goes near the shoulder here, with two electrodes connected to the heart. It sends a shock whenever it senses a drop in blood flow. Amazing, isn't it?
A medical miracle.
Last show of the night.
Jesus Christ. Nurse Crupp! Anybody else hurt?
No.
Crazy fucker.
Where's Burke?
Upstairs. 212. Had to shock him twice more.
My Lord mother man, you look like hell. What were you drinking?
The captain almost fired me tonight. I'm on my way out. Anytime now.
Nobody gets fired. Look at me. Only thing they might do is transfer you to the Bronx. You look like you aged ten years since I rode with you last.
The ghosts
You ever notice people who see shit always, are crazy?
I think the worst is over.
It can always get worse. You can't change what's out there, only where you're coming from. You got to let the Lord take over, in here.
She only works when I'm on. I make her wait and it drives her crazy.
Is it true that you and Love went on a blind date? She hit you with a bottle?
She loves me the way no woman ever has.
He's not dead. It's a heroin overdose. Break out the Narcon.
He's dead unless you folks want to stop bullshitting me and tell it straight. Then, Lord willing, we'll try to bring him back.
I ever tell you about the time years ago I was on this ledge uptown, trying to talk this psycho inside?
Where the guy jumped and you almost fell. No, you never told me that story.
No, you never listened. I was going, man, if someone on high hadn't pulled me in. I had put all I had into saving this dumbass lowlife suicidal that when he went down, there was a part of me that wanted to go with him.
Make a left here. I want to stop.
Who's that?
She's the daughter of a cardiac arrest I brought in last night. I told her we'd give her a ride back to Misery. Her father's showing signs of improving.
Oh, Frank, you've got it bad, so much worse than I thought.
I'm hungry too. We gotta get some food after this.
God help us, he's hungry too.
Went over to Sal's got this. There must be some place in Hell for a guy who sells a dollarfifty a slice. I call you if anything comes up.
Thanks.
Rule number one: Don't get involved with patients. Rule number two: Don't get involved with patient's daughters. You understand?
What about rule number three: Don't get involved with dispatchers named Love.
You don't know the first thing about rule number three, cannot begin to understand the complexities of that rule. Come on, let's go look at some hookers. The Kit Kat will be letting out. Don't ever call a junkie whore a crackhead. They get real mad.
Nice though, pulling back her hood as we drive by. There's a mystery to it, then she shows you.
She's no whore, Marcus.
We're all whores, Frank. You know what I'm talking about, the way she looked at me.
She wasn't looking at you, man, she was looking at me.
No, you didn't, Frank, thank you. But there's still a couple hours left on the shift.
I need a drink, that's all.
Look at that. A fat junkie. That's a first.
What's wrong.
It's coming. Hold her down.
What's that, Frank?
Three legs.
That's too many.
Backup?
It's coming.
Don't give me that look.
What look?
You know what I'm talking about. It's all over your face. That Ijust savedalittlebabyboy look.
We just saved a little baby boy. Think of it that way.
I don't want to hear about it, okay? That's three jobs for the night. It's over. Three jobs and time for a drink. Six am, the cocktail hour. Pass the bottle; I know you're holding.
I hate vodka.
Please, a little decorum if you will. What I was going to say is, is that holding that baby in my arms, I felt like I was twentyone again. A call like that makes me think of going back to three nights a week, not two, start running again, cut down on the drinking.
I'll drink to that.
Here's to the greatest job in the world.
Greatest job in the world.
Where you going?
I quit! I'm through!
You can't leave me now.
Do you have any music?
What?
Music. I think it helps if you play something he liked.
John, play the Sinatra.
Is he going to be alright?
His heart's beating.
He's very very sick.
I know him. That's Noel.
We'd better go outside. Quickly.
Is there any chance?
I guess there's always a chance.
I wouldn't do that. The doctor seems to think he's suffering from some rare disorder.
It's not so rare. He grew up on our street. He's had a rough life and he's a little crazy from it, but that's no excuse for not giving someone a lousy cup of water.
It's my first cigarette in over a year.
The first is always the best.
It's the waiting that's killing me, not knowing, you know? It's really hard on my mother. The doctor doesn't think my father'll make it. He says he was dead too long, after six minutes the brain starts to die and once that goes, close the door.
You never know.
I mean if he was dead, I could handle that.
At least he's got people around him.
I'm not so sure. My father and I haven't spoken in three years. When my brother called to say my father was having a heart attack, that he'd locked himself in the bathroom, all the way going over I was thinking how I was gonna tell him what a bastard he was. Then when I got up the stairs and we moved him onto the bed, I thought of all these other things I wanted to say.
Even when you say the things, there's always more things.
Right now, I'm more worried about my mother than anything. They won't let her see my father.
Go home. Take her home. Get some rest. Not going to find anything out now.
That's what I told her. If she could just see him a second, then I could take her home.
You shouldn't smoke.
It's okay. They're prescription. Works better with a little whiskey.
That's my brother's problem. He's passed out inside.
That boy you brought in, he was shot, wasn't he?
Yes.
He's dead, huh?
Yes.
I think this place stinks.
Our Lady of Misery.
Did you see my father?
No.
It's crazy in there. What's wrong with that doctor? He keeps mumbling, poking himself in the eye when he talks to me.
He's working a double shift.
Thing is, I'm supposed to be the fuckup. The one on the stretcher in therethat's supposed to be me. With my parents crying out here. I got a lot of guilt, you know what I mean?
My father's in a coma, now my mother's going crazy. It's like she's in a trance.
She should go home.
I'd take her, but then who would stay here?
Yes?
Hello, I'm Frank Pierce, from the ambulance last night. I brought your father into the hospital and I just learned some news.
I'll be right down.
He's better, isn't he?
Well, the doctor says he's showing some movement. It's still early, it might mean nothing, but I thought you'd want to know.
I knew. I sensed it when I heard your voice.
You look so different.
I know. It's awful, isn't it? Night of the Living Cheerleaders.
I think it looks good.
I was going nuts in that waiting room so I came back to check on my mom.
How is she?
Sleeping.
I was just going to get some food. Pizza. Maybe we could.
You can't kill my father that easy. He'll fight forever. Like with me: hasn't talked to me in three years. But it's okay. Sometimes you have to put things behind you.
Be tough to get a taxi here. We can give you a ride if you like.
Okay.
He wants to pull that tube out. It's pretty painfulthat's why they keep him sedatedbut it's a good sign.
You sure? I know my father would hate to be tied down. He wouldn't even go to the dentist.
That's how it's done. You have to keep the body going until the brain and heart recover enough to go on their own.
He's better, though, right?
He's better.
Look, I'm sorry, but it's important to me. I mean, a week ago I was wishing he was dead. And now I want hear his voice again, just once more you know what I mean?
My father was a great man, you know. There was nobody he wouldn't help. You know that crazy guy Noel who I gave water to last night? He lived in our house for almost a year. A total stranger he'd do anything for, his own family though ...
It's best not to ... It's good pizza, huh?
Not as good as Nino's.
You remember that pizza place, Joe's on Tenth Street maybe fifteen years ago? When you ordered a pie it came with a little plastic madonna in the middle?
Yeah, or Saint Anthony. You from the neighborhood?
I grew up on Elizabeth. I went to Blessed Sacrament.
On yeah? I went to Holy Name. Where'd you go to high school?
We moved out after that. Upstate.
Like everybody elseexcept us. Always standing on the sidewalk waving goodbye to moving trucks. Your parents ... ?
They're fine. My old man was a bus driver, mom a nurseI was sort of born to it, I guess.
You married?
Ah, no. I was. It's hard to explain. She had a hard time adjusting to, well, maybe it was my fault too.
It's been bad lately, but it's always bad.
How long you been doing this?
Five years.
Wow, you musta seen some things, huh? What's the worst thing you ever seen?
You learn to sort of block it out, you know, like cops fence off a crime scene. But then something good will happen and everything will just glow.
You must get a lot of overdoses. I bet you picked me up a couple of times.
I think I'd remember that.
Maybe not. I was a different person then. Does everybody you meet spill their problems on you like this?
Mostly. It must be my face. My mother always said I looked like a priest.
I better go check on my father. Thanks for the pizza. I owe you one. Maybe when he gets better, you know, when we're done with all this.
Sure.
Excuse me. You seemed like you were in trouble.
I'm all right. I just can't stand to see people tied up. I'm in the waiting room for hours, listening to Noel screaming. The only reason he's screaming is 'cause he's tied up.
Don't seem so bad to me.
Don't say that. I wanted to cut my father loose too. They told me he almost died and five minutes later they say he's better and I go in. It's killing me seeing him fighting like that. Look, since you're here, maybe you could do me a favor. I need you to wait for me outside this building, okay? I have to visit a friend who's sick.
Okay.
I'm only asking because it's a dangerous building. There's been some robberies, a woman was raped not long ago. This woman I'm seeing, she'll want to talk to me all day, but if I can point to you out the window and say you're waiting, I can be out quick. if anything happens, I'll be in apartment 16M.
Maybe I should come up with you.
If I'm not back in fifteen minutes, hit the buzzer. That way she'll let me go.
Nothing's going to happen. I'll come with you.
No, I'll be fine. I'm just visiting a sick friend.
I shouldn't have asked you to come.
You asked me not to come.
Promise you won't go inside.
Fifteen minutes.
I just have to relax a little. Not feel so guilty all the time.
We can still go back. I'll walk you home. You sleep a couple of hours, watch some TV, take a bath.
Don't be a cop. If you have any doubts about this, it's my fault.
Mary. Mary, we've got to get going.
No, no.
You and CY have a nice talk? He tell you about Sunrise Enterprises, helping people? Well, I've seen him hurt people. Why are you following me?
Because you can barely walk.
What is it? You want to help me, you feel sorry for me? Keep it to yourself.
I need to sit down a minute.
Or maybe you wanna fuck me? Everyone else has.
I heard CY Coates was brought in. He looked pretty bad.
He'll be all right.
Too bad. He called me up today, can you believe that? I don't know how he got my number. He asks me do I want to come over and see him, I tell him I'd rather go to a leper colony. He says there's a new gang that wants to kill him, take over the business. I told him I hope he's right. That they kill him. That's what I told him.
It'll be a while before he's up and running again.
OK, last night I was weak. it won't happen again. And all that shit I saidit was just because I was stoned. Forget it.
No problem. Thanks for letting me crash. It was the best sleep I've had in months. I used some of your soap.
I wish these people would leave already. I can't listen to another story. Did you see him? That doctor says the brain is coming around. They're waiting for the heart to stabilize. I don't know who to believe. He says they still have to keep him tied up.
Can I bring you something back to eata falafal, some pizza?
No, we just ate. I only remember how tough my father was. Now I know he had to be like that, to make us tough. This city'll kill you if you aren't strong enough.
No, the city doesn't discriminate. It gets everybody.
This is not a good time.
There's no time.
Who is it?
Frank.
Come on up.
Excuse me. You are a very kind man. I can see that. A man like you could not refuse a poor sick dying helpless man a small cup of water.
I can't. I have to stay with my patient.
See, I can't do it. I came out of the desert.
You came out of the hospital. You were tied down and hallucinating. You got some bad chemicals in your head, Noel. There's some medicine at the hospital that will fix that.
No, no medicine!
Noel, you didn't let me finish. We have rules against killing people on the street. Looks bad, but there's a special room at the hospital for terminating. A nice quiet room with a big bed.
Oh man, do you mean that? Thank you man, thank you. How?
Well, you have your choice: pills, injection, gas.
You're not going to die.
What did you say?
Shut up. You're going to die and he's not. Got it.
That's a hell of a swing you got there, Noel. I'm thinking Strawberry in his prime.
Strawberry ain't shit. Drug pussy. Me. I swing like Reggie. Mr. October. Number three, game six, World Series.
Here, you try.
No, I'd better not.
Sure, sure, give go.
Yeah?
What the hell. The next year, tiebreaker for the division, in Boston, Yanks down two to nothing, Bucky Dent steps to the plate.
Oh man, Bucky.
The pitch, high heater. Bucky knows what's coming. He steps in, smash, over the green monster.
Okay, what happened?
He's going to be all right, right?
No. He's dead.
No way, man.
He's dead and there's nothing we can do. Come on, Frank, that's it.
All right, all right, he's been snorting that Red Death stuff. Been going for four days.
What's his name?
IB Bangin.
What'd you mean IB Bangin? What kind of name is IB Bangin?
Twelve Young, I don't have time for your games. Now answer me or do I have to come out there myself?
I usually don't do calls before coffee. But I think it might do you some good. Twelve Young is here and I'm gonna take care of you, baby. Don't you worry about a thing, yahear, cause Marcus is alive and on arrival.
I'm not your baby, Young, I'm not your mother either. You're going to a cardiac arrest, Avenue C and Ninth, northeast corner. It's a club. Take the side entrance.
Tenfour, hon. This is for you.
Twelve Young, answer the radio. I have a call for you.
She said to me, I love the way you talk on the radio.
I can't wait all night, Young. I'm holding a priority and if you don't answer I'm going to knock you out of service.
Don't worry, hon. Young is here and he's gonna help outjust remember, you owe me.
You're going to threefour Avenue C, 17 yearold female cardiac arrest, no further information.
Tenfour, hon.
Let's do it! It's Marcus, Love, only for you.
Male diff breather, approximately 30, Houston and A.
Tenfour.
Frank Pierce.
Mary said you might be coming.
Where is she?
Sleeping in the back.
She asked me to pick her up.
I know, but she told me to tell you she wants to crash here a few hours. Terrible about her father, isn't it?
I better just go in and see her.
She wanted something to help her sleep.
Mary, we really have to go.
I'm always interested in people in stressful occupations and being a paramedic is about as stressful as I can imagine. Here, sit down. What's it like? Tell me some war stories.
Got a beer?
That shit is poison, Frank. We don't drink alcohol here. What you need is one of these.
Did you give Mary something called Red Death?
Red Death? Tell me something, Frankdoes killing your clients make good business sense to you? The kids selling that shit have no sense. They'll be taken care of, don't worry about that.
I should be going. I just quit.
Sleep is all stress reduction. Here. You take one of these, sleep two hours, that's all you need. Why do you think I'm telling you this, Frankfor my health? You ought to look at yourself in the mirror, man. Kanita, get him a glass of water.
Is this what you gave Mary?
That's the stuff. I call it the Red Lion. Very kingofthejungle.
I guess I'll be going.
Just take it easy.
Does that hurt?
No!
They're gonna torch the fence. You're gonna feel the metal getting warm, maybe very warm.
I can't hold up my head anymore.
So, Frank, am I going to live?
You're going to live.
I've been thinking about things. Meditating on my financial future. You guys gave me plenty of time to meditate on the future. Whatja do, stop for Chinese on the way over? There's plenty of food in my place.
I was tired. I needed a coffee.
What about Kanita?
Dead.
That's too bad. Get some money, a nice looking girl on your arm, and everyone wants to take a piece. Some kid I wouldn't let wash my Mercedes is in my house, shooting at me. Damn, I thought I could make it onto the balcony like Tiger. He's fat, that's why, falls faster. I'm trying to watch my weight, and look what happens. Am I shot, Frank?
No.
Boy can't shoot for shit, either. Goddamn that's hot.
Hey Cy, guess who's here?
Mary ...
It's okay, Kanita. Come on in.
He looks like a cop.
He's not a cop, he's a medic. I'm CY Coates.
Frank, take it easy. what happened?
He flipped out.
Be cool, man. You're having a paradoxical reaction. It can happen. Didn't I tell you this guy was stressed out?
Stressed? He's psycho.
You know each other a long time?
Two years. Ever since we left island.
In that time, you ever have sex?
Never. No cigarettes, no drugs, no booze.
No underwear?
We are virgins.
No English. She has terrible pain in her belly.
Pregnant.
No, no, that's impossible.
Are you pregnant? Estas embarazada?
Can you walk? Puedes caminar?
She say she in great pain.
Thanks for the translation. What's your name? Nombre?
Is she dying?
She's having a baby. Twins.
Es impossible.
You can trust me on this one.
It's a miracle.
What am I going to to do with this guy? Pierce, I was just on the phone with Borough Command. Out of twelve shifts this month, you've been late for nine, sick four and that includes the shift where you came late and went home early.
I'm sick. That's what I've been telling you.
You're killing me, you know that? You got no sick time according to Command. I've been told to terminate.
It's okay. I'll just get my things out of the locker.
I've never fired anyone in my life.
I'm sorry Captain. Don't take it too hard.
Nobody tells me to fire anyone. I told them: shove it up the big one. Sorry. I said, you want to fire him, come over and do it yourself.
You know they won't do it. It's up to you. You gotta be strong.
I feel for you, but we got an emergency here. It's a weekend of full moons. Everyone's called in sick. Larry, Veeber, Stanley too. We need bodies out there. I had to put Marcus on Twelve Young. You know he's not supposed to work two nights in a row.
You swore you'd fire me if I came in late again.
I'll fire you tomorrow. Hell, better than that, I'll forward you some sick time. A week, two weeks off how about that?
I don't think a week's gonna do it.
I'm sorry, Pierce. You're going out with Marcus. Duty calls. The City needs you.
You're late, Pierce. I know, but I can't fire you. I've got nobody to work sixteen XRay with Walls.
No ...
I got some forms here to fill out about that accident when you get the time. I'll fire you tomorrow. I promise.
What if there is no tomorrow?
Go on, get outta here, Pierce, before I give you a big hug. I love this guy.
Nice and easy now. Keep your hands where I can see them.
What is this? Who the hell are you?
Harry Tuttle. Heating engineer. At your service.
Tuttle! Are you from Central Services?
Ha!!
But ... I called Central Services.
They're a bit overworked these days. Luckily I intercepted your call.
What?
A little precaution, sir. I've had traps set for me before now. There are people in Central Services who'd love to get their hands on Harry Tuttle.
Are you saying this is illegal?
Well, yes ... and no. Officially, only Central Service operatives are supposed to touch this stuff ... Could you hold these.
... but, with all the new rules and regulations ... unncgh, c'mon, c'mon ... they can't get decent staff any more ... so ... they tend to turn a blind eye ... as long as I'm careful. ... Mind you, if ever they could prove I'd been working on their equipment ... well, that's a different matter ... up a bit with the torch, sir.
Sorry. wouldn't it be easier just to work for Central Services?
Couldn't stand the pa  ah  we're getting warm 
The pace?
The paperwork, couldn't stand the paperwork. Over to the left please, if you don't mind sir. Hold it there. Yes, there's more bits of paper in Central Services than bits of pipe  read this, fill in that, hand in the other  listen, this old system of yours could be on fire and I couldn't even turn on the kitchen tap without filling in a 27B/6.... Bloody paperwork.
Well I suppose one has to expect a certain amount
Why? I came into this game for adventure  go anywhere, travel light, get in, get out, wherever there's trouble, a man alone. Now they've got the whole country sectioned of and you can't move without a form. I'm the last of a breed. Ah ha! Found it! There's your problem.
Can you fix it?
No. But I can bypass it with one of these
Are you expecting anyone?
No. Wait here.
Listen .. um ... I don't want to get involved in any of this. But I work at the Ministry of Information, and I happen to know that Information Retrieval have been looking for an Archibald Tuttle, Heating Engineer. You wouldn't by any chance be 
My friends call me Harry. Information Retrieval, eh? Interesting!
What do they want you or?
Time to go.
Thank you very much. How much will it...?
On the house. You did me a favor. Check the corridor.
Yes?
Central Services.
No, not at all. I mean, it's all right. It's fixed.
Fixed?
I mean it fixed itself.
Fixed itself.
Now look what you've done to him.
Have you got one or haven't you?
Not ... as such ...
But we can get one.
It's all right, Terry, it's all right, everything's all right.
I'm sorry, but I'm a bit of a stickler for paper work. Where would we be if we didn't follow the correct procedures?
We'll be back.
What the  ? How did you  ?
Emergency procedures.
Sign here please.
What is it?
It's a 27B/6, what did you think it was?
What?
Who fixed your ducts?
Hang on! Wait a minute! You can't just go and leave it like this!
Why not? All you've got to do is blow yer nose and fix it, haven't you?
For God's sake, what's happened?
Thermostat's gone. And then some.
What is it?
It's a 27B/6 of course.
Are we?
Ah yes, the lady is waiting.
A steak, please. Rare. Mother, I need to ...
Monsieur. Quel numero.
I don't know which numero.
Numero, trois.
what? ... Oh ...
Madam ... CUT to WOMAN turning, half in flirtatious conversation. It is SAM's MOTHER, but miraculously another twenty years younger and ... a parody of SAM's Dream Girl.
My name is Sam Lowry. I have to report to Mr Warren.
Thirtieth floor, sir. You're expected.
Er, don't you want to search me?
No, sir.
My I.D. cards.
No need, sir
But I could be anybody.
No you couldn't, sir. This is Information Retrieval. the lift's arrived, sir.
Excuse me, Dawson, can you put me through to Mr Helpmann's office?
I'm afraid I can't, sir. You have to go through the proper channels.
And you can't tell me what the proper channels are, because that's classified information?
I'm glad to see the Ministry's continuing its tradition of recruiting the brightest and best, sir.
Thank you, Dawson.
Hello  Central Services  I'm at 579B Block l9, Northwestern Section D  that's exit 1 on Green Pastures Highway at the Orange Blossom Flyover  and I've got trouble with the air conditioning
Thank you or calling Central Services. am sorry, due to temporary staff shortage, Central Services cannot take service calls centrally between 2300 and 0900 hours  have a nice day  this has not been a recording, incident
This is an emergency!
Thank you for calling Central Services. I am sorry, due 
Yes, but. I've got to have a heating engineer
Thank you for calling Cen 
Hello ... hello ...
Hello. Mr Lowry?
Who's that?
Put the phone down and your hands up.
What? Who is this?
I can't make up my mind whether to have a number one or a number two. What do you recommend, Spiro?
Between you and me, Madam, today the number two.
Thank you, Spiro. Shirley, what are you going to have?
Numero huit, braised veal in wine sauce.
It's too exciting. I've left Dr Jaffe and gone to Dr. Chapman.
Numero deux, duck a l'orange.
That's all right Ida ... it's just that he's such an artist. To him, cutting is so crude ... so primitive.
Numero trois, steak. Monsieur, Mesdames, Bon appetit.
Really, Sam  when are you going to do something about these terrorists?
What? Now? It's my lunch hour.
Whatever happened to you?
There was a slight complication. Dr. Chapman says it often happens with a delicate skin like mine. Nothing to worry about. He's promised me I'll have these bandages off in a ...
Actually, there's someone I want to meet ...
I know, I know ...!
Here we are! I'm going to leave you two lovebirds in peace.
I ... uh ...
Ah ... hello, Mrs Terrain. SAM lets go of the parcel and pushes JILL away. She moves off.
I think that'll hold it. Hello Shirley. Just helping someone tie up a Christmas present. How are you?
My complication had a complication, but Dr Chapman says I'll soon be up and bouncing about like a young gazelle. Are you buying a Christmas present for your mother?
Er, yes ...
Shirley and I come here regularly. I love romantic lingerie.
It's a refund ... I'm afraid there was a mistake.
Mistake?
Yes. Not my department ... I'm only records. It seems that Mr Buttle was overcharged by Information Retrieval. I don't think they usually make mistakes ... but, er ... I suppose we're all human.
My husband's dead, isn't he?
Er ... I assure you Mrs Buttle, the Ministry is always very scrupulous about following up and eradicating error. If you have any complaints which you'd like to make, I'd be more than happy to send you the appropriate forms.
What have you done with his body?
Um ...
Uh ...
He hadn't done anything ... He was good ... What have you done with his body?
I just wish you would stop interfering, mother! I don't want promotion. I'm happy where I am.
No you're not. Jack Lint is a lesson to you  he never had your brains but he's got the ambition. You haven't got the ambition but luckily you've got me. And Mr Helpmann. Mr Helpmann was very close 
Mr Helpmann was very close to your poor father. He was very close to me. Still is. He'll take you under his wing at Information Retrieval. You'll like it when you get there.
You're not listening, mother.
I hope you like it. It's very exclusive.
What is it?
It's something for executives.
What were we saying?
This isn't rare!
By the way, I saw a wonderful idea for Christmas presents at the chemists. Gift tokens. Medical gift tokens.
Actually, Alma, that's one of the little things I was dying to tell you ... Sam's been promoted to Information Retrieval.
Mother!
Sam ... you haven't had dessert.
I'm sorry. I don' t want dessert. I don't want promotion. I don't want anything.
Don't be childish, Samuel. Of course you want something. You must have hopes, wishes, dreams.
Mother? Is that you?
Of course. Isn't it wonderful? The bandages came of this afternoon. Come and join the fun. Everybody's here.
Is Mr Helpmann here?
Yes he is  he wants to talk to you.
I want to talk to him.
It seems you're the first person ever to turn down a promotion. He thinks you should see a doctor.
Actually, I've decided ...
Sam!!!
Mother? ... What ... what's ... you've got to help me ...
Not now ... please
Hello, Spiro. Merry Christmas.
I'm sorry but ...
You remember Samuel, my son.
{suddenly unctious) Oh, but of course ...
We're meeting Mrs Terrain.
Oh, to hell with the diet, a number eight, please.
A most perceptive choice, Madam, if I may say so. Monsieur?
Numero une, crevettes la mayonaaise.
I'm sorry Alma, I didn't mean to sound so ...
My mother said it would be all right.
She didn't say anything about it to me.
Well, she's my mother, not yours.
I won't be held responsible.
How long will she he away?
There are some who go to Dr. Jaffe's clinic who never come back at all.
No, you can't have any more chairs! There's only one left in here now, and I need that to sit on! Oh ... er, sorry. Who are you?
Sam Lowry.
Ah, yes, you're the new boy from next door, ha ha! My name's Lime. Harvey Lime. Welcome to Expediting.
Ah. Would you mind if I borrowed your computer console?
What?
I'll bring it back in ten minutes.
You want to take my console into your office?
Yes.
I'll tell you what .... You tell me what and I'll do it for. I'm a bit of a whizz on this thing.
Alright. There's someone I want to check out. A woman called Gillian Layton.
A woman eh? I see.
I know her age and distinguishing marks. But I need an address or a place of work or something
This is your dream girl, is it?
What? Look, let me use the console for a few minutes.
You must be joking  When there's a woman involved  there's no stopping me. Now, let me have that sheet.
Sod it, it's broken!
You haven't switched it on.
Oh  yes. Look you're putting me off, standing there! Go back to your office and I'll give you a knock when I've finished.
Hey  that's my desk!
Gillian Layton  Suspect S/5173. Truck driver! All enquiries, reference officer 412/L  Room 5001. That's what I wanted to know. Thank you very much.
Lime, I need to use your computer
Sorry, a bit busy at the moment. You seem to have quite a lot to do yourself.
Perhaps the machine's on the blink! It keeps picking up old films. That can't he right, can it?
It's not the machine. There's a mismatch on the personnel code numbers... Ah there we go! That's a B58/732 when it should be a T47/215 ... Tuttle ... he should have 31.06, debited against his account for electrical procedures, not Buttle.
Oh my God, a mistake!
It's not our mistake!
Isn't it? Whose is it?
Information Retrieval.
Oh, good!
Expediting has put in for electrical procedures in respect of Buttle, Archibald, shoe repair operative, but Security has invoiced Admin for Tuttle, Archibald, heating engineer
What a relief! I don't know what I'd do if you ever got promoted.
Don't worry.
But if they did promote you
I've told you before. I'd turn it down.
Would you really, Sam?
Really.
You've been promoted.
It's your mother isn't it? Pulling strings again.
What a BITCH!
A cheque.
The refund for Tuttle!
Tuttle?
I mean, Buttle! It's been confusion from the word go! He's been wrongly charged for Electromemorytherapy and someone somewhere is trying to make us carry the can!
I've never seen a Ministry cheque before.
We've got to get rid of it! There's been a ballsup somewhere, and when the music stops they'll jump on whoever's holding the cheque!
Send it to somebody else. Send it to Buttle. It's his cheque.
I've tried that! Population Census have got him down as dormanted, the Central Collective Storehouse computer has got him down as deleted, and the Information Retrieval have got him down as inoperative ... Security has him down as excised., Admin have him down as completed
Hang on.
He is dead.
Dead! Oh no! That's terrible! We'll never get rid of the damned thing! What are we going to do?
Try next of kin.
Next of kin!
There we go. Mrs. Veronica Buttle. What's the number on the cheque?
27156789/074328/K.
Problem. She doesn't have a bank account.
Well, that's it! I may as well go and hang myself! This sort of thing couldn't have happened before the stupid seventh tier reorganization! That was Simmons doing! And he and Jeffries always sit together at lunch! The bastards! Ow! Perhaps we can lose it ... behind the filing cabinet ... or destroy it ... burn it ... eat it ...
You'd never get away with it. Besides, you can't do that to somebody's refund. It's Christmas. There is one more option.
What?
Drive out to Mrs Buttle, give her the cheque, tell her to sign her name on the back, cash it at the corner sweet shop.
Here. What do I do next?
Call the motor pool and authorise personal transport.
Of course, of course. Leave it to me. How do I authorize a cheque?
Here we are. Pink and blue receipts. All you've got to do is sign these and the back of the cheque.
Oh God! I think I've broken a bone. What a pathetic thing I am.
Here.
That's it.
You are good to me Sam.
Don't mention it. See you later.
Is it all right about Mrs Buttle's cheque?
I delivered it.
Can I forget it?
Yes.
Damn! Blast!
What's the matter?
You don't happen to know how I can get around an IRQ/3 do you?
All information on 3rd Level Suspects is classified.
I know that.
All enquiries to Information Retrieval. Which is hopeless, of course. They never tell you anything. But come the time they want something from us ...
I've go to accept that promotion to get behind this, haven't I?
Yes. NO! You can't! You've only just turned it down!
I never signed the form.
I did it for you.
What! Shit!
It's what you wanted isn't it?
Yes ... No ... I don't, know.
Are you alright?
It's you ... it's you ...
Mrs Buttle, are you alright?
Who are you? Let go!
Don't look back! Act naturally!
How can I act naturally, when you've trying to break my arm?
Ow! That hurt!
Good!
What are you doing? For Christ's sake! Get moving!
Who are you?
Bloody hell! Do as I say!
No.
Please!
Alright! Alright! Alright! I'm Information Retrieval Officer  DZ/015, and I'm arresting you for  your own good! Now start up and get moving before I hand you back to them!
Them?
Us. Them. I don't know ... just get going.
Don't litter my cab!
Oh, sorry.
... This is amazing ... for me ... being here with you. I mean, in my dreams you ...
I don't want to hear about your fucking dreams!
Oh. But ... Look, I'm sorry I shouted at you.
Why are they all pigs at Information Retrieval?
I don't know. Hey, that's not a very nice thing to say.
You know, smoking's bad for you.
It's my fucking life.
Yes, of course. Sorry.
I know you. I saw you through the floor, didn't I?
Yes. Ceiling. Why did you run away?
I didn't run away. I left the flat.
Why?
I didn't like it.
Why not?
It had a hole in the floor. Where are we going?
Where are you taking me?
What?
Where are you taking me?
Ah ... Er ... It looks as if you're taking me.
It does doesn't it?
Where are you taking me?
What's going on here?
What does it look like ... I'm collecting empties.
OK. What's in the parcel?
What parcel?
It's heavy.
A heavy Christmas present.
What are you doing in Information Retrieval?
Looking for you.
No, really.
Really.
I mean, it doesn't suit you.
Suit me?
Don't you know the sort of thing that Information Retrieval does?
What do you mean? Would you rather have terrorists?
We've got both.
Things would be worse without Information Retrieval.
They couldn't be worse for the Buttles.
Why don't you say, no system is perfect.
Well, no system is.
Say, all wars have innocent victims.
Well, all wars do 
Who is this war against, Sam?
Well, terrorists of course.
How many terrorists have you met? Actual terrorists?
Actual. terrorists? Well ... it's only my first day.
Look at that  right on time.
What? I thought you were free to come and go as you please.
Well, almost ... unfortunately I do have to punch in by 5.00 every day.
Every day?
Turn around!
What?
They'll be there waiting.
Who will?
Security.
You're joking.
No. Please. They're going to arrest you.
I thought you arrested me.
Yes ... but, this is real. Now, stop!
Cut it out, Sam.
Will you please turn back.
Get away!
Turn!
Stop it ... damn you!
I was right! Step on it!
Let go! We've got to stop!
Now you're the one that's out of your mind.
Sam ... we can't outrace them. You'll kill us!
Come on, let's go! Let's get out of here!
Oh God! What have we done?
We? Don't blame me!
It wasn't supposed to happen like this.
Shit! The house is on fire!
"And your children all gone."
What?
"Lady bird, lady bird, fly away home, your house is on fire and your children all gone" ... Do you think anyone's hurt?
Yes. Come out, I know you're in there
This is a hell of a time to buy a nightie.
Are you still following me?
Please, Jill ... I love you.
Go away.
There are plenty of other safe places. Why don't we go back to my flat?
Leave me alone!
You've got to trust me. It sounds silly but I know we were meant to meet.
You mean you were meant to hijack my truck, make me crash it, and have every security man in town looking for me?
I vas just trying to help. I decided to trust you. Maybe I was wrong. Whose side are you on really? Who are your friends? Who was the man who gave you the parcel? What's in it? It's the only thing you saved from the lorry .... It must he something very special.
I saved you from the lorry and you're not very special.
........... It's a bomb isn't it?
Oh ... Jesus!
I'm going to open it!
No you're not!
Jill! What are you do ... I mean ... how did you ... Are you alright?
Yes.
What happened to you after ...
Your face ... are you hurt?
No. No. I'm fine. I was worried sick about you ... I thought ...
They're gone.
Are you sure?
Yes.
Don't you like parties?
C'mon. We've got to get out of here.
Make yourself at home. Don't answer the phone or open he door to anyone. I won't be long.
Where are you going?
I'm going to pull some strings. It's our only hope.
Don't do anything silly.
Thanks for the vote of confidence.
Take care.
What do you think? ... is it me?
You don't exist any more. I've killed you. Jill Layton is dead.
I want to report a wrongful arrest.
You want Information Adjustments. Different department.
I've been to Information Adjustments. They sent me here. They told me you had a form I had to fill in.
Have you got an Arrest Receipt?
Yes.
Is it stamped?
Stamped?
No, there's no stamp on it. You see! I can't give you the form until it's stamped.
Where do I get it stamped?
Information Adjustments.
But you've stamped this form before! Why won't you stamp it now?
You've just said yourself, Miss, we've already stamped it. Why should we stamp it twice?
You're a stupid, fat arsed, obstructive, fascist moron aren't you?
If you say so.
You think these are tits don't you?
Ah.
I bet you'd like to touch them?
Oh.
Well don't. You're looking at twenty pounds of high explosive! And if you don't stamp this form I'm going to blow the place up!
Sam!
Jack!
Long time no see!
Well, since you disappeared up the ladder of Information Retrieval ... I don't expect to see you slumming in Records  what's the problem?
Problem?  No problem  yes, everything's going fantastically well, wonderful, marvelous, great career prospects, Alison in great shape, kids fine, beautiful home, I'm on Security Level Five now, and Mr Helpmann relies on me more and more, yes, couldn't be better, I feel terrifically motivated and job rewarded 
You sound worried.
Me?  if I'm worried about anyone, it's you. What happened to you, Sam? You were the brightest of us 
What's the matter?
Sorry. Nothing. See you  I'm going to be late.
You are late.
Even later.
Sam, your life is going wrong  let your friends tell you  Records is a dead end department, no Security Level worth a damn, it's impossible to get noticed 
Yes, I know, fantastic, marvellous, wonderful  remember me to Alison  and the  er  twins.
Triplets.
Really?  God, how time flies!
Hello, Jack!
You remember Alison?
{winking at Sam) She doesn't like me telling anyone but she's pleased as anything really.
Er, I knew you looked different.
Remember how they used to stick out?
What?  Oh, yes  vividly. I used to wonder if they were real.
Dr. Jaffe has pinned her ears back.
Quite, absolutely  I always thought they were false.
Mr Helpmann!
Jack!!
SAM! What a surprise!
Are you officer 412/L?
Sorry about that ... Mr Helpmann told me you were coming aboard  congratulations!
Thanks. Are you officer 412/L?
For my sins. Are you settling in alright?
Yes, thanks.
Terrific. I'm really glad you dropped by. Unfortunately, I don't have any time right now I've got a queue of customers to deal with  er, why don't we have a drink tonight?
Ah ...
What?
I don't want to take up your time now, but I was hoping you could give me some information on somebody. It's a security level three matter and Information Retrieval records says to refer to you.
OK. Come back this afternoon, about four o'clock. If you give me the number of the case, I'll have the dossier here waiting. My tailor,... well worth the investment.
I've got numbers all over these  I'm not sure which is the one you want.
Layton! Oh shit!
What is it?
You clever bastard! I might have guessed. You only moved in today and you're already hot on the bloody trail.
Am I?
Please, Sam, we're going to have to be open to each other on this one. If you make a reputation with this case, it'll be at my expense.
How do you mean?
How much do you know?
Not much.
Enough though, eh?
Not really, no.
OK. OK. Let's not fence around ... This is the situation. Some idiot somewhere in the building, some insect, confused two of our clients, B58/732 and T47/215.
B58/732, that's A. Buttle isn't it?
Christ! You do know it all!
No, no, I don't. I'm just beginning Honestly. Sorry, carry on.
Well, your A. Buttle has been confused with T47/215, an A. Tuttle. I mean, it's a joke! Somebody should be shot for that. So B58/732 was pulled in by mistake.
You got the wrong man.
I did not get the wrong man. I got the right man. The wrong man was delivered to me as the right man! I accepted him, on trust, as the right man. Was I wrong? Anyway, to add to the confusion, he died on us. Which, had he been the right man, he wouldn't have done.
You killed him?
Sam, there are very rigid parameters laid down to avoid that event but Buttle's heart condition did not appear on Tuttle's file. Don't think I'm dismissing this business, Sam. I've lost a week's sleep over it already.
I'm sure you have
There are some real bastards in this department who don't mind breaking a few eggs to make an omelette, but thank God there are the new boys like me who want to maintain decent civilized standards of terrorist eradication. We've got the upper hand for the moment, but they're waiting for us to slip up, and a little slip up like this is just the chance they're looking for.
So how ...?
What I've got to do now is pick up Tuttle, interrogate him at the same voltage as Buttle, to the same meter reading to the last penny, and juggle the books in electrical banking.
What has Tuttle done?
We suspect him of freelance subversion.
He's a freelance subversive?
He's a compulsive heating engineer. A maverick exCentral Service repair man with a grudge against society. Now, fortunately, we're nearly out of the wood, I think. At least we will be when I get this Layton woman under arrest.
What's she done?
You didn't know as much about this business as you pretended to, did you?
Er ... no.
Very smart.
Er ... but I would've found out anyway.
Yes. I'm impressed.
Tell me about Layton.
She witnessed the Tuttle arrest  the Buttle arrest  and since then she's been making wild allegations, obviously trying to exploit the situation  she's working for somebody, and she's not working for us.
A terrorist?
But surely, I mean, perhaps she just happened to live above the Buttles, and ...
Look after that suit, eh. Barbara chose it for me.
Right. Er, you're not going to keep calling her Barbara, are you?
Barbara's a perfectly good name, isn't it?
Look, about the Layton woman  maybe she's just trying to help the Buttle family.
Why?
Why? Hell, not for any reason ...
{baffled) I don't follow you.
Out of kindness.
Kindness? What's the purpose behind this line of enquiry?
So what are you going to do about her?
Get her out of circulation  I've put her on the detention list.
You mean you're going to invite her in so that she can spill the beans inside the department?
Well, I ... Good point. What do you suggest?
Let me try to get to her. I'll deactivate her.
What does that mean? I don't want to be involved in anything unsavoury.
Trust me. You do trust me, don't you?
Of course. We went to school together. You're my oldest friend.
And you're mine.
You're the only person I can trust.
Then we'd better keep this business just between the two of us.
Right! Just between as and the Security Forces.
They weren't at school with us.
But, I've already put her on the search and detain list.
Take her off the list.
There's no procedure for that until she's been arrested.
Say it was a mistake.
We don't make mistakes.
Well, I'd better get out there and try to get to her before security does. Let me borrow her dossier for a while.
Er ... alright. For Christ's sake don't lose it. Here, you'd better sign for it.
Thanks, Jack. I'll be in touch.
Do you know what you're doing.
Trust me.
Sam ... we're proud to have you at Information Retrieval. Merry Xmas.
Come off it, Jack! Of course you can check to see if she's been arrested.
I'm sorry, Sam, I'm afraid this whole case has become much more complicated since last we talked.
She's innocent, Jack  she's done nothing wrong.
Tell that to the wives of the Security men she blew up this afternoon. Listen, we've also had a report just in from Central Services that Tuttle has wrecked an entire flat and sabotaged adjacent Central Services systems  as a matter of fact, in your block. I'd keep my eyes open if I were you, Sam. Bye.
You don't really think Tuttle and the girl are in league?
I do. Goodbye.
It could all be coincidental.
There are no coincidences, Sam. Everything's connected, all along the line. Cause and effect. That's the beauty of it. Our job is to trace the connections and reveal them. This whole Buttle/Tuttle confusion was obviously planned from the inside. Bye bye.
Jack, she's innocent!
Sam  we've always been close, haven't we?
Yes we have, Jack!
Well, could you stay away from me until this thing blows over.
Jack?... Jack?
Shut up!
Jack, I'm innocent! Help me.
Bastard!!!
This is all a mistake. Jack, please take that mask off.
You stupid bastard!
What?
How could you do this to me?
Help me, Jack! I'm frightened!
How do you think I feel? You shit!
Jack ...
Shut up! This is a professional relationship!
Thanks very much Sam.
That's all right Mr Helpmann. Glad to help.
If I can help you ...
Well, I ...
Sorry ...
Your father and I were very close. Of course Jeremiah was senior to me but we were close friends ... especially after the bombing and I keep his name alive at the office every day.
I know he would have wanted me to help you ... And I promised your mother I'd take you onto the team at information Retrieval. But I gather that ...
Mr Helpmann. I've changed my mind. I'd like to accept the transfer  am I too late?
Too late? That's for me to say.
Well ... well, I ...
Sam, what are we going to do with you? Can you hear me, Sam?
Where's Jill? What have you done to her? Where is she?!
Gillian Layton?
Yes, you've got to get me out of here. I've got to find her.
I understand, Sam, I know exactly how you feel. So I brought you a bottle of barley water.
Help me!
I assure you, Sam, I'm doing everything within my power. But the rules of the game are laid down, and we all have to play by them  even me.
This is all a mistake! Don't you understand?!
Yes, well, from the Department's point of view you're certainly a bit of an own goal, but ...
I'm not a terrorist! You must know that! I'm not guilty! Get me out of here!
Sam, if you've been going out there and playing a straight bat, all the way down the line, you've got absolutely nothing to worry about.
Please, I've got to find Jill.
Sam, I think I ought to tell you ... I'm afraid she's upped stumps and retired to the pavilion.
Yes, it's all a bit confusing but, it seems she was killed resisting arrest.
No, no ... I did that...
Deputy minister, what do you believe is behind this recent increase in terrorist bombings?
Bad sportsmanship. A ruthless minority of people seems to have forgotten certain good old fashioned virtues. They just can't stand seeing the other fellow win. If these people would just play the game, instead of standing on the touch line heckling 
In fact, killing people 
 In fact, killing people  they'd get a lot more out of life.
Mr. HELPMANN, what would you say to those critics who maintain that the Ministry Of Information has become too large and unwieldy ...?
David ... in a free society information is the name of the game. You can't win the game if you're a man short.
And the cost of it all, Deputy Minister? Seven percent of the gross national produce ...
I understand this concern on behalf of the taxpayers. People want value for money and a costeffective service.
Do you think that the government is winning the battle against terrorists?
On yes. Our morale is much higher than theirs, we're fielding all their strokes, running a lot of them out, and pretty consistently knocking them for six. I'd say they're nearly out of the game.
But the bombing campaign is now in its thirteenth year ...
Beginner's luck.
Thank you very much, Deputy Minister.
Thank you, David ... and a very merry Christmas to you all.
Go away.
Her name is Jill.
What? ...Jill? Jill who? Jill who?
Layton.
Jill Layton ... You're a very good little girl. What are you doing here?
I'm waiting for my daddy.
He will be pleased when he comes home.
Er ... Thanks ...
It's reply paid.
Oh ... Thank you very much, mother, but actually 
You don't have to sing it.
Oh, right ...
Aren't you a bit late?  the party started half an hour ago.
Yes, I know. It's the backlog, everybody complains. Was it all right otherwise?
Yes, it was ... very nice ... thank you.
Do you mind if I use your bathroom?
Ah ha ... there you are, Sam.
What? How do you know my name?
We know everything here. This is the Storeroom of Knowledge.
Then perhaps you can help me. I've lost someone who ...
We know that too. You've come to the right place.
Oh, yes. We've got everything here. Every bit of knowledge, wisdom, learning ... every experience, every thought neatly filed away.
What? You mean you've got ...
Well not exactly. But, if you help us we'll help you. The Forces Of Darkness have won the day ... but, tomorrow is another one
What do I have to do.
You must save the day.
You telephone, sir.
...elephoned sir.
Trouble with your airconditioning.
...ditioning.
...ixed itself.
Machines don't fix themselves.
... fix themselves.
He's tampered with it, Dowser.
...ampered. with it, Spoor.
I think we'd better have a look.
... have a look.
What have you got there?
Got there!
Mumble ... mumble ... mumble ... Tuttle
Mumble ... Tuttle ...
Tuttle! ... mumble! You've had that scab Tuttle here, haven't you?
...aven't you?
Oh yeh? Where'd you get this from eh out yer nostril?
...Yer nostril?
Central Services don't take kindly to sabotage!
...sabotage!
...ven't you?
You're putting your talents to very odd use Mr Lowry  yes, odd use  to pit wits against Central Services 
...sod you, stupid twit.
Sign here, please.
... ere please.
This is what you get when you have cowboys round yer ducts.
... yer ducts.
I think you've got your T41 crystal inductor wired up to a reverse bobbin threadedsolenoidcontrol. It's either that or a new washer.
... new washer.
Sign the form so we can get to it.
... get to it.
...ervices.
Uh  what?  I ...
...Be back.
Thank you.
...ergency procedures.
I haven't got an emergency. Get out of here.
...your ducts?
I fixed it myself.
... And then some.
What have you done to my flat?
You're awake. Can you hear me? You've been shot. I'm trying to help you. You were in the water. You've been shot. It's okay now.
Where am I?
You're American. I thought so. From your teeth  the dental work 
<u>Where am I</u>?
You're on a boat. A fishing boat. Italian flag. We're out of Vietri. It's the cold that saved you. The water. The wounds are clean. I'm not a doctor, but the wounds, it looks okay. It's clean.
How did I get here?
You we're lost at sea. They pulled you out. Who are you? You were shot  two bullets  in the back. You understand me? Who are you?
What if it doesn't come back?
I told you. You need to rest.
It came from your hip. Under the skin. You have a bank in Zurich. You remember Zurich?
No.
Look, I'm just on this boat, okay? I'm an engineer. Whatever this is, it's not for me to be involved, okay?
I don't remember Zurich.
You drink rum?
I don't know.
It's not much, but it should get you to Switzerland.
I won't forget this.
 what're you talking about? 
 we're evacuating the building 
 we're in the middle of a trade meeting! 
 call the code!  I want everyone out! 
 you gotta give me more to go on 
 he's running from the cops, he's got a bag filled with God knows what, he's in the building and I don't know where! 
What?
Abbott wants to talk.
Tell him we're busy.
I tried.
 and they're sure it's him? 
 he accessed the account 
 but it was <u>him</u> 
 yes, sir, it's confirmed 
What?
Zurich police are looking for an American with a red bag. Apparently he put two cops in the hospital last night.
What the fuck is he doing?
Maybe it's a game. Maybe he's trying to send us a message.
It doesn't matter now. We've just got to be the first ones there. Get everybody up. I want them all activated.
All of them?
What?
Abbott. He knows about the embassy. He's coming down for a show and tell.
That'll solve all our problems.
And that's the best angle of the courtyard?
That's the only angle.
What do they have on the streets? The area. They must have something.
Hang on...
Sir...
What's that?
It's an angle of the street  some sort of alleyway  you can just...
Enhance it.
 let's check that Interpol window again 
 I'm on it 
 I want that red car  the girl  we gotta get lucky here 
Miss Kreutz, please... I'm gonna have to ask you to keep your voice down.
All the papers  all the papers they asked for  I brought all the papers 
<u>Miss Kreutz</u>, excuse me, but you entered into a fraudulent marriage in an effort to circumvent the immigration laws of the United States 
You only know that because I told you! Ask the case officer  find his name  it's on the papers  I told him all this myself! 
 it's not the source of the information that's important here 
 I paid this fucking guy  I paid him four thousand dollars  my last four thousand dollars to marry me, okay?  I told this to the case officer last week... ...<u>here</u>  Mr. Thomas. I told Mr. Thomas I didn't know this guy was already married  I admitted this!
 Miss Kreutz, please 
 I'm the one that got ripped off!  not you  not the United States government  me  I'm the one being ripped off!
So now you're asking for a student visa?
xxxxxx...
xxxxxx
Where's the dog?
My husband's out looking for him.
He run away often?
That old beast? Miss his breakfast? Not a chance. It's always something, right?
Get in the basement.
What?
Get everyone down in the basement.
What the hell're you talking about?
You're in danger. All of you. I have no time to explain.
Wait a minute 
I'm sorry.
Where did this body go?
I said, someone came last night  Look, this isn't a carnival  people call and they make an appointment and they follow the rules  everyone signs in and out  this is a serious place  serious work  it's not just to come in whenever you like 
Shit, we didn't sign in.
So get the hell out of here.
Fine. But I'd like to sign in. In fact, I insist on it. Where's the book? I gotta sign in 
Is this it?   this is it, right? 
 slow down  you can't just take the book like that 
 don't sweat it, I have a pen  no problem  just let me find the page   honey, why don't you wait for me outside, okay? 
 we have rules here, this is a very serious place  I'm the one who decides who gets in here, okay? 
 what do I?  I put the name of the person I came to see? 
 this is serious business down here and we cannot have people coming and going 
 here we go  I found it 
I need a ride.
MARIE +++$+++
I need a ride out of here.
Oh, Jesus...
Please. I don't want to scare you.
It's a little late for that.
I've got a situation here and 
Get the fuck away from my car.
I'll give you ten thousand dollars to drive me to Paris.
Great. You know what? I'll give you ten gazillion dollars to get the fuck away from me before I start screaming my head off.
You don't want the police any more than I do.
Jesus...
Get me out of here. <u>Please</u>.
So what's in Paris?
I want to go home.
For twenty thousand dollars.
I said ten thousand.
You have blood on your pants.
Okay. Twenty thousand. Ten now. Ten there.
<u>No</u>. No, that was too easy 
Wait up   just wait up 
 get the fuck out of here  all this money, this crazy offer, I mean give me a fucking break with this, this is 
Look, I want a ride to Paris. That's all I want. I swear.
You swear? That's great. I feel so much better now.
I don't want anything but a ride. All I want to do is go home.
You could buy a car for twenty grand. You could buy this car.
I don't want to go alone. I want you to drive me to Paris. Like we're a couple. Like we're a couple and we're travelling together. That's all we're doing.
And I don't get hurt. I get twenty thousand dollars and I don't get hurt.
I won't hurt you.
What if I say no?
Then I'll find another ride.
Just so you know, if you're gonna burn me on the money, you might as well kill me. I was supposed to have this car back three days ago. It's not my car.
I know that.
Shit  Can I tell you how much you're freaking me out? Okay? Because you are  you're completely freaking me out.
I'm sorry. Really. What do you want me to do?
I don't know. Smile. Sneeze. Something. You've got a bag full of money and a ride to Paris. Fuck it, I don't know... What kind of music do you like?
I don't know.
What does that mean?
Listen to what you want.
Who pays twenty thousand dollars for a ride to Paris?
I don't know. I don't know who I am.
Yeah, well, welcome to the club.
No. No, I mean, I really don't know who I am. I can't remember anything earlier than two weeks ago. I'm serious.
What? Like amnesia?
Look, go ahead...put the radio on...
Amnesia? You're saying you don't remember anything that happened before two weeks ago?
That's what I'm saying.
MARIE +++$+++
And you have no idea  not a clue  what came before that?
No.
When you think of it, before the ship  before you wake up on the ship, what do you see?
Nothing. It's just not there.
Well, this is great. I'm sick of myself and you have no idea who you are.
I kept trying things, I thought if I could find all the things I could do, I could 
 you could put it together 
 which was okay for a while, I was okay with it... But then  there's all these other things  all these other things I know how to do  and this  this stuff from the bank and... I think something bad happened.
What are you talking about?
I don't know.
Sounds like you were in an accident or something.
I was shot twice in the back.
Okay, so you're a victim.
There was a gun. Who has a safe deposit box with a gun and all this money and all these passports?
Lots of people have guns. You're American. Americans love guns.
I fought my way out of an embassy. I climbed down a fiftyfoot wall  I went out the window and I was doing it  I just did it. I knew how to do it.
People do amazing things when they're scared.
Why do I?  I come in here  instinctively  first thing I do  I'm looking for the exit  I'm catching the sightlines  I know I can't sit with my back to the door 
You're paranoid. You were shot. It's natural.
I needed a break.
Where are we?
We're about an hour away.
I can't believe I slept.
You were tired. Here... For twentythousand I like to throw in breakfast. So what do you dream about?
I dream I'm asleep. I dream that I'm asleep and I can't wake up. I don't think I smoke.
You ever think maybe you have a family?
I thought about it. I don't know.
Slow down. No, don't stop. Just...
That's it? Is that it?
Fourfifty. That's the address...
Looks familiar?
No. No. Go around. Keep going...
Where?
Yeah. Pull in here. Park it.
So this is it, right?
I guess.
I should go.
I don't remember any of this.
Jason...
Okay, so...
Thanks for the ride.
Anytime.
Look, I don't know what's up there.
You got me pretty fucking curious.
Look, you could come up. Or you could wait if you want. I could go check it out. You could wait.
Nah... With you, I mean, you'd probably just forget about me, right?
How could I forget about you? You're the only person I know.
This is like a real apartment. This is really yours?
I guess so.
This is your office? God, you live like a monk...
All this stuff  it's all about boats. I think I'm in the shipping business.
See. It's starting to come back, yeah? You mind if I take a bath?
Go ahead.
 no  Marie  <u>no</u>!  it's not like that 
 please  Jason  omigod 
 quiet  <u>quiet</u> 
 what're you doing?  Jason, please, tell me what's happening!
Open it   do it  what's he got in there?
WHY ARE YOU TRYING TO KILL ME?
...omigod, no...
What?  what?   what is it?
...this is my picture... he's got my picture   this is me  this is Zurich  this...this...this is yesterday 
 just 
 where does this come from?  How do you have my picture?
Marie, just   just stay there!  just 
 he's got my picture!  this is yesterday!  this is me!   where did you get my picture? 
 let me do this, okay? 
 do what?  what are you doing?  he's got my picture   he's  my God  look at him  he's bleeding to death  my picture  look!  he was trying to kill us!  omigod 
He's dead isn't he?
Marie  look at me  there's no time for this 
He went out the window  why?  why would someone do that?
 we can't stay here  I can't stay here  it's not safe here 
He came to kill us.
 we can go  I can get us out of here  but we have to go now 
You knew he was coming.
No.
I trusted you.
You're wrong. I didn't know.
I don't trust anybody and I trusted you!
I didn't know this would happen.
He had my picture! He knew I was here! He came here to kill us!
And where is he now? You believe what you want, but I'm telling you the truth  I never would have brought you here if I thought it was dangerous.
Oh, Jesus...
You stay  if you want, you stay  it's okay  it's better  maybe it's better  I don't know  But I can't stay here. <u>I can't</u>.
But the police 
 there's no time 
 we'll explain it 
 how? 
 there's two of us  we'll tell them  we'll just 
 forget it 
 we'll tell them what happened 
I don't know what happened! I don't know who he is! I don't know what he wants! I don't even know who I am! The only thing I know is that if I stay here, I'm never gonna find out!
You stayed there five times in the past six months. But I didn't have time  I could only get the bill from the last stay  you were there for two days. Some room service  there's half a dozen phone calls here so that's someth
Who paid the bill?
It's a company... MPG Capital.
I found it. It took six calls. I found Kane. I found the body.
Let's go  We got to get away from this phone.
 I don't know what you're doing and you're scaring me  what are you looking for?  what just happened in there? 
Nykwana Wombosi.
What is that?
It's a name. Mr. Wombosi owns a thirty million dollar yacht. He's the proud owner of an Alliance Security package. He also paid a visit to the morgue to see John Michael Kane.
What does that mean? Jason, what does that mean? Jason, please...who is he?
I don't know.
<u>So what are we doing</u>?
Go back to the hotel.
It doesn't matter who you were before. It's who you want to be. That's all that matters. We have this money. We have what we have. I had nothing before and now, I don't know, maybe I have more, maybe it's nothing, but... I say we leave here. We leave this place. We go until we can't go anymore.
You could do that?
Yes. That's who I want to be.
xxxxxx.
xxxxxx
Stop where you are.
What?
xxxxxx
xxxxxx
I won't let that happen.
xxxxxx
xxxxxx
Who is it?
We have to keep moving.
xxxxxx
xxxxxx
xxxxxx
xxxxxx
xxxxxx
xxxxxx
xxxxxx
xxxxxx
xxxxxx
xxxxxx
And that's it?
If you're lucky. Take it. There's enough in there to make a life. Any life. Just get out now. Get low. Stay low. <u>Take it</u>.
What was I thinking, right?
I can't protect you anymore.
What about you?
I'm gonna find the end of this. I can't protect you.
Can I help you?
This your store?
Yes.
Think I could rent a scooter?
You have ID?
Not really.
Mr. Kane... Come right in...please...have a seat.
Thanks.
Well... I must admit, when my assistant told me you were here I was, really  I was quite  I was surprised.
Really.
We thought you were gone for good.
Did you?
Well, I mean it's a tough business, isn't it? Cutthroat.
Look, our bid  it was competitive  but definitely at the high end of competitive  when we didn't hear back from you, we did some reanalysis of the numbers, and honestly, we'd really like a chance to do a bit better. I'm assuming you're still in the market. It's the same vessel?
Yes.
We just picked up a job quite like the one we were bidding for you. Gorgeous boat, hundredandseventy fivefoot pleasure cruiser. I think we learned a few things that might allow us to make our proposal for your job, as I said, a bit more competitive.
Okay.
Was it the breakin?
Excuse me?
We also thought we hadn't heard from you  we've had a bit of a publicity nightmare, people have been talking. Our offices were broken into  vandalism mostly  shortly after we last spoke.
I hadn't heard.
Let me get you a new copy of the proposal.
That'd be great.
Bonjour? Monsieur? Allo...
Yes, I'm here...
You call about Monsieur Kane? John Michael Kane?
Yes. Is he there?
You are a friend of his?
Yes.
I have some very bad news for you, sir. I'm terrible sorry to have to tell you this, but Monsieur Kane has passed away almost two weeks ago...
There was an accident. On the motorway. Apparently, he was killed instantly. Really, I'm terrible sorry to be the one to tell you this...
...I understand...
...we actually, we were unaware for several days that this had happened. When they came for his things, it was made known for us, you see?
Who? Who came?
His brother. You know his brother?
Right. Yes. Of course.
It's very bad this. Terrible sad. Such a young man.
Do you  his brother  do you have a phone number?
I think not... No, I'm sorry. It was very sudden. He was here very briefly.
...yes  oui  uh...
OPERATOR/PHONE +++$+++
Paris?
Yes, sir... How can I help you?
Yes, I'm...I'm looking for Mr. Jason Bourne.
One moment, please... I'm afraid, I have no one by that name registered, sir.
D'accord... Merci. Un moment  un moment 
 sir? 
 hang on  I need you to check another name for me  hang on  un moment, s'il vous plait 
Kane. Do you have Mr. John Michael Kane?
One moment, sir.
You're a U.S. Citizen?
Yes. I mean, I think so. Yes. Yes...
Well, either you are, or you aren't.
Right.
You have your passport?
I have a passport. I've got... Actually, it's a little complicated.
<u>Do you have your passport, sir</u>?
Look, maybe I should just...
Sir, you waited on line.
Yeah, I know...
Did you bring investment advice for me tonight? It was tax shelters, wasn't it? Swiss debentureswaps.
MPG Capital.
I think investment advice from a dead man, it's a bad idea. How does it feel to be dead?
It's a lot more stressful than I thought.
Who do you think sent me?
I know who sent you. I don't know why. I learned many, many things from the CIA. <u>Many</u> things. I learned the way they think. Was the bomb on my boat supposed to go off or not?
<u>Was this a game or a fuck up</u>?
I don't know.
Get the kids out!
Are you Treadstone?
Am I Treadstone? Me? What the hell're you talking about?
<u>What did you do to me</u>?
What did I do? I spent thirty million dollars on you. I spent three years finding you  four years training you  What did I do? What in the name of God have you been doing, Jason?
I don't know.
They're right about you, aren't they? You're fried. You really don't know what's going on, do you?
I know you've been trying to kill me.
Of course. We had to try. We didn't know what was wrong. We didn't know you were in trouble.
So now you know.
So it's time to go home.
That's all I get?
We'll make you better. We can put the pieces back. We can do that.
I don't think so.
We have to go home, Jason.
Jason Bourne is dead.
<u>There never was a Jason Bourne</u>. You have to come with me. It's the only way. We can give it back to you...
Keep it.
Jason... They can't let you go...
That'll be their second worst mistake.
I won't ask again.
I work alone. Like you... ...we always work alone.
What do you mean?
Who are you? Rome? Paris? Treadstone...both of us...I was warned but...
Treadstone?
...which one are you?...
Paris. I live in Paris...
...headaches...you have that...I get such bad headaches...
Yes.
...it's a problem...
Treadstone.
...or in a car...when it's dark...something with the headlights... ...pills, right? Treadstone had those pills...
What is Treadstone?
...what did you do?...you must've really fucked up...
I think so.
...someone said caffeine  for a headache...doesn't seem...
What do they want me to do?
...they won't let you go...
Why?
Storm clouds are gathering, Ted. It looks like rain and I don't have a thing to wear.
I don't know what we're talking about.
We're talking about Marseille. We're talking about Nykwana Wombosi. And I'm asking you if this abortion in Marseille has anything to do with Treadstone. Was this Treadstone?
You're asking me a direct question?
Yes.
I thought you were never going to do that.
They're putting together an agency oversight committee. They're going to look through everyone's budgets. Treadstone is a rather sizable line item in my ledger. What am I going to do about that?
You'd want to make that go away. You'd want to remind them that Treadstone is a training organization. That it's all theoretical. You'd want to sign off on that.
And what if I couldn't do that?
Then I'd have to explain Treadstone. And you'd have to explain how you let me get this far. Doesn't sound like much of a PlanB, does it? We'll clean up the field. You clean up your budgets.
She's a gypsy. If it's a cover, it's a great one.
I'm assuming we're exploring that possibility.
We're exploring <u>every</u> possibility. We are in pursuit. How much more do you want me to tell you?
Pursuit would indicate that you know exactly where he is.
No. Pursuit <u>ends</u> when we know exactly where he is.
Yes, well, I think we need some fresh eyes on this problem. I'm bringing in some people from upstairs.
We've been down here for two weeks banging our heads against the wall. We've been <u>sleeping</u> down here. We just got our first lead fourteen hours ago, and now?  now that we <u>finally</u> have something to work with  you want to bring planning personnel down here? I'd rethink that.
I want a second opinion.
<u>This is an operations desk</u>.
I'm not asking.
That was two hours  two hours to get a second opinion  and nothing changes. He's loose. He's out of control. It's very clear what needs to happen. I have work to do.
What if he <u>is</u> working for someone else? What if he turned?
Turn? To who? Where does he turn? What does he have to offer? He's got nothing. He's a killer. He's a piece of equipment for crissake. Where's he gonna turn?
No. We can't risk it.
Our last sighting was fortyeight hours ago. Even if they stayed in the car, the grid is huge. This is it. He's trained  conditioned  they're built to disappear. You give him another day to run and we may never find him.
This doesn't go upstairs.
 he went inside! 
 if we can get a clean shot 
 <u>inside</u> the house? 
 that's what they're trained for  just a surgical strike.
Forget it.
What do you want to do?
We don't know what we're into!
We're in the shitter, man! Pick your poison. Maybe he's in there to finish the job. Maybe he's working for Wombosi. Maybe they want to go on TV together. Every possibility sucks  we've got to move!
I'm going to Paris.
<u>No you're not</u>. You're not going anywhere. I'm shutting this down.
You're not doing shit. You're so scared you can't even think.
You just blew up a house in Paris! This program is over. Call it off.
I can't call it off. He's not responding. Get out of my way.
You shouldn't have to see this. Why don't you get out of here? Go for a walk.
Caesar wants me to stay.
Don't worry about Caesar. I'll handle Caesar. You just get out of here, okay?
Oh, God.
Caesar? What the fuck time is it?
Mickey? What are you doing here?
Violet, it's Gino and Johnnie. They were in a car accident.
Oh my God. Was anyone hurt?
I think everything is okay.
Mickey! Oh God, Mickey!
Violet?
I will never understand it, Mickey. You didn't even call the police.
I told you, the family doesn't want the police around. We want to take care of it ourselves and we will. I'll find him. I swear I will.
I know you will.
Sure you're going to be okay? I mean, if you're having second thoughts, my offer still stands.
Thanks, Mickey, but I need to get out, you know? Get away from all of this.
Hey, Caesar! You take care of this girl, or I find out!
You are as radiant as ever, Violet.
No, Johnnie. No goddamned phones. Not now.
Pop?
Caesar, come here. Sit. We talk now. You too, Johnnie.
Done. We go now.
Jesus Christ, Pop. You got two hours until your plane leaves.
Unbelievable. Can you believe that, Violet?
Hey, Johnnie ...
Johnnie, what did I say?
Pop, this is important to me. It's a simple question. if he would just answer the question, that's the end of it.
Hi. My name is Violet. We sort of met in the elevator 
Yeah, sure. I'm Corky.
I heard you working in here and I just wondered if you'd like a cup of coffee?
Who?
Rajeev, the man who usually works on the building.
Oh, he went home to India, but as far as I know he'll be back.
So this is temporary for you?
Pretty much. One day at a time.
I guessed you were straight black.
Good guess.
Mmmm ... thanks, I needed this.
My pleasure ... but to be honest, I did have a slightly ulterior motive here. I was wondering if I could ask a small favor?
A favor?
Yeah, see, I'm kind of a night person, so I was wondering if it wasn't a terrible inconvenience if you could wait a bit before using power tools.
Oh, I'm sorry 
No, it isn't your fault. The walls here are just so thin.
Are they really?
Yes, it really causes problems. Sometimes it's like you're in the same room. But if it's too much trouble, I understand ...
No, no trouble. There's other work to do.
You're doing everything yourself?
Yeah.
That is so amazing. I'm in awe of people who can fix things. My dad was like that. We never had anything new. Whenever something broke he would open it up, tinker with it and it would work. His hands were magic.
Truck.
Truck. Of course.
'63 Chevy.
I knew it.
So, how do you know the owner, Mr. Bianchinni?
I don't, really. I was referred to him.
Oh, really.
Do you know him?
No, but Caesar does. He likes him. Says he's a good Italian.
Caesar is your husband?
Oh no, no. I'm not the marrying kind.
I should be going. You can drop the cup off anytime.
Thanks.
My pleasure.
Oh no. Shit. I didn't know he would call you. God, you must think |I'm a total nuisance.
Not exactly.
I'm sorry, I usually would call Rajeev, but I didn't know what to do so I called Mr. Bianchinni.
He said you lost something.
Yeah, come on in.
I'm sorry, look, forget it. I shouldn't have called...
I told Bianchinni I would take a look. Is it that sink?
Do you have a pot or a bucket?
Sure.
Thank you so much. You have to let me pay you something 
No. Mr. Bianchinni asked me to do it. I did it.
Okay, one drink.
What do you want?
A beer?
A beer. Of course.
You seem uncomfortable. Do I make you nervous, Corky?
No.
Curious, maybe.
Curious? That's funny, I'm feeling a bit curious myself right now.
Are you surprised that I know what it is?
Maybe.
I have a tattoo, would you like to see it?
Isn't it obvious? I'm trying to seduce you.
Why?
Because I want to. I've wanted to since I first saw you in the elevator.
You dropped that earring down the drain on purpose, didn't you?
If I say yes, will you take your hand away?
No.
... yes.
I had to see you.
Look, I don't think this is a good idea.
I wanted to apologize.
Don't apologize, please. I can't stand women who apologize for wanting sex.
... I needed that.
Tell me about it.
Caesar's Mafia, isn't he?
You have to ask?
No.
Funny, nobody calls it that anymore. Caesar calls it "The |Business."
How did you meet him?
They took over a club I was working at. Caesar started managing it.
He's a launderer?
Basically.
How long have you been with him?
Almost five years.
Five years is a long time.
Yes, it is.
The redistribution of wealth.
What?
Isn't that what you wanted to know? What I did time for?
The redistribution of wealth?
That's what I tell someone when I'm trying to get them in my bed.
I'm already in your bed.
My cellmate would say she did her time for getting caught. She was always more honest than me.
You didn't have to tell me if you didn't want to.
I guess I wanted to.
I'm glad you did.
So am I.
What's wrong?
Nothing.
Yes there is. I felt it this morning when I brought you the coffee.
Shit, here we go.
You didn't want to see me, did you?
If there is one thing I can't stand about sleeping with women, it's all the fucking mind reading.
What are you afraid of?
I'm not afraid of anything.
I don't understand  ?
I know! You can't understand, because we're different, Violet. We're different.
We're not that different, Corky.
How can you sit in that bed and say that?
Because it's the truth.
Let me guess. This is where you tell me that what matters is on the inside. That inside you, there is a little dyke just like me?
Oh no, she's nothing like you. She's a lot smarter than you.
Is that what her daddy tells her?
I know what I am. I don't need to have it tattooed on my shoulder.
What are you saying? That you don't have sex with men?
I don't.
For Christ's sake, Violet! I heard you! Thin walls, remember?
What you heard wasn't sex.
What the fuck was it?
All my life, everyone has been telling me that when I have sex, I'm not really having sex. Not real sex. But they're wrong. I know what is and isn't sex and what you heard was definitely not sex.
What was it then?
Work.
We make our own choices and we pay our own prices. I think we're more alike than you want to admit.
What about that guy this morning?
You mean Shelly?
Don't tell me, you're a workaholic.
No. Shelly knows what I am. He saw me in a bar with another woman.
I suppose he just wants to watch.
Fuck it! I think you better leave.
I think so, too.
Shelly was skimming from the business. He came to see me yesterday because he was afraid Caesar figured it out. He wanted to run but he wanted me to come with him.
Even though he knew about you?
Yes.
He was in love with you, right?
That's what he told himself. But it wasn't even about me, it was about Caesar. He wanted what Caesar had. That's how they are. I understand them.
For Shelly, taking the money was a way to take from Caesar. He could have run at any time, but he didn't because he didn't want out.
Sounds like he wanted to get caught.
Maybe he did. He would brag to me all the time. He was never afraid of Caesar because he didn't know him. Not like I do.
Caesar lives for these moments. He tells me it's just the business, but I know it's more than that. He likes it. The violence. I'll catch him in the bathroom mirror touching his scars. He says they remind him who he his. They're all like that. Except maybe Mickey.
Mickey?
He's the part of the business that the rest of them pretend to be. |But Mickey doesn't like it like they do. I suppose that's why he's good at it.
I want out. I want a new life. I see what I've been waiting for, but I need you, Corky.
For what?
You made a choice once. Do you think you would make that same choice again?
What choice?
If those quarters fell to the floor, would you still reach up to that cash register?
Caesar is going to get the money and bring 
How much money?
Shelly said it was over two million dollars.
Caesar will bring it to the apartment to count and go through |Shelly's books to figure out how he did it.
Wait a minute. Wait a minute. Do you have any idea what you are saying? You are asking me to help you fuck the mob.
These people are serious, Violet. If you want to know how serious, ask Shelly. They're worse than any cop because they have lots of money and no rules. You fuck them, you've got to do it right.
That's why I need your help. You said you were good.
I am, but ...
All right, let's say for the moment that I believe everything you are saying.
You think I'm lying?
I didn't say that, but since you did, let's say that you are. It would have been easy to set Shelly up. You could have got him killed knowing that Caesar would bring the money to the apartment.
All you would need to keep yourself clean would be someone unconnected, someone like me.
Is that what you think?
I'm just making a point. You have no idea what you're asking. How much trust two people need to do something like this.
The difference is, I can have sex with someone I just met, someone I hardly know, but to steal I need to know someone like I know myself.
Do you think you know me like that?
I think ...
You said he washed the money?
Yeah.
Then what? Exactly.
He hung it up.
What?
To let it dry.
And where is it now?
In his office. I saw it this morning.
It's in a case, on his desk.
Does the case lock?
Yes.
Good.
All right, now, tell me about Johnnie.
Johnnie?
It sounded like he and Caesar don't like each other.
Like each other? They hate each other.
Why?
It started way before I was around. I think basically it's because he thinks Johnnie is a complete idiot. But Johnnie runs Chicago because Gino is his father.
Who is Gino?
Gino Marzzone.
Marzzone? As in Angelo Marzzone, head of the Marzzone family?
That's his brother.
... shit.
Gino Marzzone is coming tonight to pick up the money?
Yeah.
And Johnnie is his son, that's Johnnie Marzzone?
Yeah.
Sweet Jesus.
Gino Marzzone is coming to your apartment. It's a big deal, isn't it? That means Caesar will be ready. He doesn't want to look like an idiot. Gino has been there before?
Yeah, twice.
What happened?
Not much, really. Caesar was nervous, kept cleaning the apartment. |The first time, he picked out the dress he wanted me to wear.
Does Johnnie hit on you?
Johnnie hits on anything in high heels.
Has Caesar ever seen him?
He does it right in front of him.
It's getting better and better. Keep going.
Gino doesn't know English, or at least he pretends he doesn't, so he doesn't talk much. He gets right to the point. Both times they talked for about five minutes, had one drink and then they left.
What did Gino drink?
Scotch, Glenlivet. I remember that Caesar made a huge deal about it.
What time did you say they would be there?
The plane is in at seven, so I'd say about eight.
Any bodyguards?
Gino travels with a big man named Roy. Caesar calls him the driver.
Fine.
We want him to come down, to relax, feel in control again.
Poor boy, has to work so hard.
Where will you be?
Waiting in the apartment next door.
And as you do, the bottle will slip from your hands.  and shatter against the hardwood floor.
An accident.
Shit! Oh shit!
What if he sees you?
He won't.
You can't know for certain that he won't see you.
Trust me, Violet.
I'm just asking, what if?
If he does ...
There is no going back.
When I get the Scotch, how do I know you won't take off?
The same way I'll know that you went to Scotch. Trust.
I still don't see how I'm going to get clean with the money in the apartment. Everyone will think I did it.
Not Caesar.
Why?
Because of what you are going to tell him. You have to make it as real as you can. The moment you open the door with the Scotch in your hand, you will be covered, and that moment is the most important moment in the plan.
If it's real enough, he'll believe it, because deep down he'll want to.
C! Shit, I'm sorry!
He'll have to run.
If he runs, everyone will assume he took the money.
You'll be clean and we'll be rich.
Jesus, that's beautiful.
Thank you.
If you're this goddamn smart, how did you ever get caught?
Every job like this has moments where things don't go so well and everyone starts thinking about their own ass. It's in those moments that everything comes together or falls apart.
I had a partner and she fucked me.
I won't.
I think we're going to find out.
It's me.
What happened?
He totally freaked. I've never seen him like this. He's out of his fucking mind.
That's okay, as long as he believes it was Johnnie.
Believes it! Jesus, it's driving him crazy. He wants to kill him. I don't know, Corky, I don't know what he is going to do. I'm getting nervous, really nervous.
It's all right, Violet. It's working. All we got to do is wait him out and see what he does.
What if he doesn't run?
That means he probably will kill Johnnie.
Oh, Christ, I got to get out of here!
Listen, if he doesn't run, all you have to do is break down, go to your bedroom and pack some things, start crying, saying you love him but you can't do it. You're sorry but you have to leave and just walk out.
okay, all right.
We're almost there, Violet. just hang on.
Oh, thank God.
I'm still here.
I was so afraid you ...
You don't quit on me, Violet, and I won't quit on you.
I'm sorry, Corky ...
Don't be sorry. Help me.
Hey.
Hey.
How'd it go?
I'm here, aren't I?
You know what the difference is between us, Violet?
No.
... Me neither.
Hello?
This is the police, ma'am.
We had a report of gunfire, so if you could 
Gunfire? Is this a joke?
No joke, ma'am. Please open the door.
How do I know you are cops?
Ma'am, you have to open the door.
All right.
See? We're for real.
I'm sorry, it's just you hear stories.
You did the right thing.
This is a beautiful place.
... thank you.
Now why don't you go watch some TV or something?
Are you okay, Violet?
Mickey, why is Johnnie here? You know how I feel about that fucking psycho.
Caesar, didn't I tell you to get something?
Sure, Mickey. Sure.
Yeah?
Hey, Mickey.
Mick, I know it's late, but there is a problem. They haven't shown up yet.
What? They ain't there?
No. I don't know where they are. I even called over at Johnnie's, but no answer.
Okay. Let me call around. I'll see what I can do. Don't go anywhere, okay?
Okay, sure, Mick.
Caesar, you still got the money?
Yeah, Mick. I've got the money. I'm staring right at it.
Good. Sit tight. I'll call you.
No, Cease. There was no answer.
I thought I heard someone knocking.
I was buzzing, I was knocking, but I guess you couldn't hear me on account of being in the shower.
Yeah, it was Violet's idea. I was so wound up about Gino, she was trying to help me relax.
That Violet is one nice lady. Wish someone would help me relax.
Shit, Mick, come on in, let me get you a drink. Sit down, Lou.
We was worried about you, Cease.
Me? Why?
We went over to Johnnie's place just to check it out and it was busted up, Bad.
I started thinking maybe it's about the money so I call you, but all I get is the busy signal. I figure the phone is off the hook, that's why I come rushing over here.
Oh Christ, the phone ... That was a fucking stupid thing to do, wasn't it?
Hey, if Violet was helping me relax, I'd probably do the same thing.
Cease, can I ask you something?
Yeah.
Why'd you move all the furniture around?
Actually, yeah, she was nervous about Gino coming, wanted everything to look right. You know women, Mick.
Sure, Cease. They make us do stupid things, don't they.
Is that the money?
Yeah, that's it.
Hey, Caesar, where's the key?
The key, yeah, the key's in my pants in the bathroom.
Fuck it, I don't need the key.
It's Gino! It's Gino!
Where in the hell is he?
Unfuckingbelievable. I called those highway patrol dumb fucks.
Ssh! I can't hear Gino!
You got the key?
Oh yeah. Violet!
Call me as soon as you get him.
Leave your phone on the hook.
You planned this whole thing, didn't you?
Where's the fucking money?
You're helping Rajeev?
No. Rajeev's in India.
How many'd you do?
Five.
Good. I hate to worry. I got ulcers.
I should be going.
What? How about a drink?
My brushes, I have to clean my brushes. Thanks, though.
Another time.
Sure.
Now, where the fuck is my money?
Lick me.
Where is it?
Either pull the trigger or get that thing out of my face.
I'm going to ask you where the money is. Every time you don't give me an answer, I'm going to cut off one finger.
No.
When I reach ten, then I'll start with you.
You can't kill me yet.
Why?
I could be lying.
How's it going tonight, fellas?
Pretty good, sir.
Fuck, this happened before. It's this shitty ear. Born with it. The batteries wore out in my aid. I'm sorry.
It's all right, sir.
Not on duty, sorry.
Oh, right.
I'm going to make myself a drink, if that's okay?
Go right ahead, sir.
Try to keep the extra batteries for your aid around.
Good idea.
We make our own choices, we pay our own prices.
All part of the business.
All part of the business.
I didn't expect 
What the fuck is going on?
Oh, shit ...
Caesar, this is Corky. Corky, Caesar.
I'm sorry, Christ, I thought ... it's fucking dark in here.
She's doing the work herself.
No shit. Bianchinni hired you? You know he's a good friend of mine. |Family, really.
So, you just got out?
Jesus, Caesar!
What? It ain't no big fuckin' deal. I know who Don hires. Did you know he did time himself?
Not bad. What for?
That's none of your goddamn business, Caesar.
You're right. You don't have to tell me, if you don't want to. I just hope you understand you're among good people here.
Caesar, I'm leaving.
What? Oh, come on, I didn't use one of the good towels.
Caesar, I'm serious. This is too much. I have to get out of here.
Why? 'Cause you know him?
Caesar, what happened?
It was unbelievable! Unfucking believable!
Just look at this mess I got to deal with.
What are you going to do with it?
I told them to run it through the cycles. But I guess Gino has plans for it because he's coming here tomorrow night to pick this shit up.
Where the hell's the laundry detergent?
Ummm ... in the linen closet.
Fuck! Fuck! How did you ... Awwww goddammit!
I'm sorry. It was an accident.
Don't worry, I'll get some more.
There's no time.
Don't be silly, Caesar. It'll take five minutes.
They were early.
What are you talking about?
They just left, didn't they?
What are you, drunk?
You mean they weren't up here?
No! They're still on their way.
That doesn't make any sense.
Why?
Because I just saw Johnnie downstairs.
What?
I was getting out of the car when I saw him in the Mercedes.
It couldn't have been.
It was him. I'm positive.
It's impossible!
Caesar, I know Johnnie. It was him. I screamed when I saw him. I couldn't believe I missed them. I knew you were going to be upset so I thought I'd apologize and give Gino the Scotch. I honked a couple of times but he didn't stop.
Why? Why would Johnnie do this?
Jesus Christ, Violet! Open your fucking eyes! Johnnie hates me like I hate him!
I hate that little fuck! I hate him! I hate him! I should've done him!
But you know he did it.
So what?! So fucking what? Use your head, Violet. The money is gone. Gino is coming here to get it. You think he's going to believe me if I tell him his pisshole son stole it! Is that what you think? I don't. You know what I think? I think I'm a dead man. I'm one in the brain. That's what I think!
Caesar, what are we going to do?
Got to think this through ...
Caesar, maybe we should run 
Violet, please!
I mean it, Caesar, forget Johnnie, forget the money, let's just go now, before it's too late 
Goddammit, Violet! Would you just leave me the fuck alone! Please! Leave! Now!
All right, Caesar.
I got it! I know what I got to do! I got to get the money.
The money? The money's gone.
No. Johnnie's got it. All I got to do is get it back.
But it could be anywhere.
He didn't have that much time. He had to pick up Gino. I bet you he's got it with him. I bet it's in the car.
He didn't see you, did he?
No.
See, right now he doesn't know that I know, that's why he put the paper in the case. He wants me to hand the case to Gino. Then there is no doubt it was me. Gino will put a bullet in me himself. But it ain't going to happen. I won't let it! Johnnie ain't going to fuck me! Not like this! No way!
This is insane!
You can't leave.
The hell I can't!
I need you ...
Bullshit! You don't need me! You've never needed me! I can't help you! Understand?! I have to get out.
Violet, I won't let you leave.
If you're not with me, Violet, then I have to assume you're against me.
Caesar, this is crazy.
Maybe it is, maybe it isn't. Maybe you dropped the Scotch by accident. Maybe you didn't.
It would have been so easy to let him in as you went out.
You don't, you can't believe that ...
I've seen the way he looks at you. He's always wanted you. Maybe two million dollars finally bought you.
All right, Johnnie, you want to play it this way, I can play it this way. You want to know who made a mistake, why don't you open the case.
Caesar ...
Shut up, Violet! This is between me and Johnnie.
Tell them! Tell them!
For Christ's sake, Johnnie, do what he says.
... maybe three hours.
Caesar, what are you going to do?
What do you think we're going to do? We have to find the money.
What?
Once we have the money, then none of this ever happened.
Caesar, you just killed Gino Marzzone.
No I didn't. Not if his body disappears and not if the money is still here. Then they never showed up.
What happened to them?
I don't know. We may never know, but I'm going to guess it was a job, maybe the Karpoli family.
Fuck.
Caesar, what are we going to do?
They're just cops. Stall them as long as you can.
Fuck! Fuck! Fuck!
Caesar, someone could see us out here.
It's not here, Caesar.
Where, then?
I don't know. it could be anywhere. We don't even know if he was alone. Please, Caesar, we don't have much time. Let's get out of here.
What are you doing?
We're going to need some time.
Who are you going to call?
I can use Johnnie's car, dump it in Lake Michigan ... I need plastic bags ... tape and rope ...
Just hurry.
Where is the money?
Don't tell him 
Shut up, Violet!
He can't kill you 
Violet!
Not until he has the money!
Stupid cunt!
Caesar, stop acting like an asshole and think 
Don't try to tell me what to do.
You need the money just like we do.
Shut up, Violet.
Let us go and we'll make a deal.
What did she do to you?
Everything you couldn't.
I saved you.
Ha! What a load of crap. Look at yourself, Caesar. You're a thug. |You launder money for the mob. You rent women like you rented this apartment.
Saved me? You don't even know me. You used me, Caesar, just like I used you. All part of the business.
You betrayed me!
You murdered Gino!
I had to. You made me.
Bullshit, you killed him. Not me. You did it because you couldn't stand the thought of Johnnie fucking you.
Shut up!
What?
You're blowing your only chance. Act like I'm Gino.
Holy shit, I don't believe it! We've been going crazy over here, Gino!
Good boy.
We were in a car accident 
They were in a car accident.
But everybody is all right.
They're all fine. Just bruises and shit.
Now you listen to me, asshole, I know your gun is behind the bar ...
We make a deal or I come out and hand this phone to Mickey.
I'm listening.
I want what's mine, half the money. We get rid of Mickey, no one else dies. No one. Say yes, I understand.
Yes, I understand.
Tell them I'm at St. Mary's off the Kennedy, in the waiting room, but stay on the phone until I come out.
Sure, Gino, sure.
Now that's teamwork.
I should have let him kill you.
You know he would have done you, too.
I knew I couldn't trust you.
Caesar, don't.
What are you going to do, V? Shoot me? Kill me in cold blood? I don't think so. I'll tell you why. If you had it in you to pull that trigger, you would have done it a long time ago. If I was you, I would have killed me the minute I brought the money home. But you didn't and I know why, because you don't want to kill me. Do you, V? Do you? No, I know you don't.
Caesar, you don't know shit.
We know how this was done, eh?
Yeah, I know.
Caesar? What is this?
Ask Johnnie! Ask your ratfuck son!
Caesar!
Gino, your son stole this money to set me up and I can prove it. Violet!
No, Gino!
You aim a gun at me?! Do you know who I am?! I am Gino Marzzone. You understand?
Sit down, Gino!
No, Caesar, gimme the gun.
Stay away!
We're family, Caesar.
No!
Gimme the gun.
I can't. I can't.
Give it to me.
Whoa, whoa. Come on, he's making too much noise.
You hear that, bitch? Be quiet!
Here, put this in his mouth.
You shouldn't have hit me.
You want to get into this now?
No, no, Caesar. Not now.
Glenlivet, right, Gino?
I'll have whatever Violet's drinking.
So Caesar, what did it total out at?
Two point one seventysix.
Come on, Pop, all I want to know is one thing. Just one thing after he made such a big deal out of it. I bet it wasn't a big deal. Was it, Caesar?
What's that, Johnnie?
The money I bet it was nothing to get it clean, after you made such a fucking big deal ...
Where is this going, Johnnie?
Just admit it, Caesar.
Admit what?
That you overreacted. That you lost it. Not me. It was your mistake.
That's right, I know. I fucking know.
Know what?
Open the case!
All right! Where's the key?
You don't need a key.
How the fuck can I open it?
The same way you did before.
What are you talking about?
You don't think I'll do it, do you?
I think you're fucking crazy!
Where is it?
Where's what?
The money!
Caesar, I don't know what you're thinking here, but if you don't put down that gun 
The next one blows off your dick.
You're a dead man! A fucking dead man!
Where is it?
Well, the bad news is we only made 25 bucks each.
How could that be? The box was packed!
Moe's terms.
Illibent? Who's club is that?
Ours!
There wasn't any draft. That window was closed.
We're all tired. Everybody makes mistakes. Tomorrow in the daylight, everything's gonna look different.
Boy, put that thing down. You can't take that. Might be evidence.
Evidence of what?
Somehow I don't think he stabbed himself in the chest, then buried himself too.
Shit! Damn dog. We gonna have to do something about you.
What we have to do is call the police.
You look mighty familiar to me. You sure you're not from around here?
I was born near here. But after my mother died, my dad moved. I grew up out in Rossmore Park.
You're pretty black to be growing up in Rossmore Park.
You sure we oughta save him? Why not just let see how safe his gates and walls keep him when his past comes calling?
Save him? What are you talking about?
... see there ain't just two parts to a person. There's three. BodySoul and Spirit. The spirit lives in the blood. It's the wanting that holds body and soul together, and sometimes, the wanting lives on. Jimmy's blood must still be in the house.
But the place burned to the ground.
The blood is still there. We just gotta figure out where.
It's not safe down there. The fire started down there. The whole thing could collapse.
Then your father's a dead man and Jimmy Bones is gonna be around a long time.
And some people need their medication tweaked.
I'm not joking boy. Don't feed it. It'll only make it hungrier.
Need any help with those bags, Ma'am?
No thanks.
Not really to live, just to play.
That building?
Gonna be le hot shit. Pardon my Francais. Dance club. The Resurrection Brothers play there. Heard of them?
Should I?
I just accelerated my top secret long term plan for our world domination.
Sqweeep. We innerup this programme to bring you this special news bulletin  "Aliens from Reticula 3 have hijacked Patrick Peet and injected moly headcheese into his skull filling his entire brain cavity with cosmic slop..."
I was planning on waiting until I got the place cleaned out, but  like the man says, carpe diem.
And damp, too. Let's not forget damp.
Whattaya think? Can you picture it? Over there the bar, and in here  the dance floor.
Jimmy Bones?
Yeah, you heard of him?
You haven't?
Not that I remember.
He was a local legend back in the '70's. There was a song, Stagolee kinda deal: "This is the ballad of Jimmy Bones/Black as night and hard as stone..."
I was born near here. My dad's from here. He never mentioned it.
You gotta use your imagination.
"This is Patrick..." "...And this is Patrick on crack." Imagination, my butt. Even the space cowboy can't...
Why don't y'all check out the rest? I'm going downstairs and see if I can get the furnace fired up. Warm this place up, you'll see. It has serious potential.
Potential toxic dump site.
Yeah right, and which ever of us is still alive at the end of the week inherits all Vincent Price's cash.
Look, you guys want to play college radio, high school reunions, and some fool's club once a week for the rest of your lives, that's cool. But I think we can do better.
I thought you were bringing the Colonel?
The Gangster of Love don't eat no fried chicken.
Why not? He eats everything else.
Just what army do you think the Colonel was in? Everybody knows the whole chicken distribution network is owned by the Klan. "Special recipe". I'm telling you. There's something in the batter. Say it makes a black man sterile.
Maurice, even if it was true, what are you worried about? Last time I checked, you weren't black. I'm not sure what the hell you are. But I know you aren't a black man.
I am the future. I am all colors. All races. All creeds. I am the melting pot. I am the tossed salad. I am post racial.
Posttoasted's more like it.
"Like a heartbeat/Like a love beat." Listen to the Di Franco twins there. Just the plumbing or something, fool.
Maybe there's a pipe underneath the floor. It leaked and stained.
We didn't do nothing, Eddie.
You gon tell me you didn't ginsu those punks and steal their ride?
That's all we did, steal their ride.
Get that car the hell away from here, now! I spend a lot of money to keep the cops cool. But this is the kinda shit that pisses everybody off.
You boys been hitting the pipe?
No, Eddie. It's just that, I dunno. He was tall, and thin, and like a shadow, his face was just a blur. All I remember is the voice. It was smooth and low and it didn't seem to be comin' out of his mouth.
Then how'd you hear it, fool?
It was just like in my head.
Maybe I oughta open a couple holes in that head and let all them voices out. You'll feel better, I promise.
Goddamnit! How many times I told you 
We got a gift for you, Eddie. Fresh new BMW.
That you stole off those white boys was down here last night? Are you crazy? Everybody from hell to breakfast heard that screamin' on Blackstone last night!
But 
How many times I told you, no psycho shit. There gonna be psycho shit, I'm the one that does it.
We just thought...
No more thoughts from your asses. Or I will burn your asses and snort the ashes. Hear me?
I know it. The old slaughterhouse. Hey, Sal. That little weasel we popped today? He's got something for us. I knew he would once he thought about it.
Shit, that was fast.
12year olds. They scare easy. Anyway, he's gonna tip their stash. Come with me.
I'm on my way home. Can you handle it yourself?
Oh, no. Please don't make me go by myself. I'm scaaaaaaaaaared.
Fuckin' comedian. See you tomorrow.
Not your style. Is it Eddie? Killing off your customers?
I ain't killed nobody. Shall I rack 'em? Play a game, Lupe?
No time for eightball. I got your tip.
Fair enough for the shit. But I think a little bonus is due for knocking out the competition.
You was just doing your job.
Last thing you need's for me to start doing my fucking job.
What it is? What it will be, muthafucka.
Now you.
What the hell do you want?
Just a visit with my old pal, Jaybird.
Don't call me that.
You certainly traded up. ...the trophy wife. Nice lookin'.
Keep your hands to yourself, willya?
I been watching you. You done good. Invested wisely. Respectable businessman now. Just like you always wanted.
And you? Still a pig. Just a much fatter one.
No reason to get nasty. Yeah, I've stayed in the organization. But then again I never got the percentage you did.
Or you didn't know what to do with it.
Maybe so. Maybe so. But that ain't why I came to see you. You sold the building.
What building?
Don't shit a shitter. Our building. What did you call it? His 'tomb'? We had an agreement. You were supposed to sit on it. Not sell it 
I didn't sell it.
Well, somebody bought it. That's what I heard.
You're right. One of my associates sold the building last month.
That's a Bozo nono. Jaybird.
Look, even if anyone found anything there, it's twenty years ago. They could never connect it to us.
You better hope not. Cause it's like they say, four can keep a secret, if three are dead.
Nice rack. How old is 
That's it. Get out. Now!
No way man...
You cut him, or I shoot you. Make your choice.
But maybe we're the ones who should be down there. Doing something. Making it better.
Can't be done. That place already died and gone to hell.
Where are we going? You know I hate surprises.
A little business move I made. On my own. I think you're gonna approve.
What are we doing down here?
Like you always said, Pop, look for the undervalued.
Listen to me, boy. I didn't work all my life to get out of this neighborhood for you to move right back in!
I thought you'd be psyched. Just trying to do what you did. Take nothing and make something out of it.
No one'll ever come here. Shut it down. Don't worry, the bank'll buy it back. I'll take care of it.
You'll take care of it? Not this time. No way. I bought it fair and square. And we open tonight.
Bullshit! Bullshit!! You're selling it back! That's an order!
Did you do it?
Sure, son. I went down there and torched the place myself.
You could have had it done. You didn't want us there.
I wouldn't have risked killing you to get you out. I was trying to protect you.
From what?
Why? Why did you give a shit about the building? Why did you care that we were there of all places?
It's...it's a bad neighborhood. As you can see now.
Bullshit, Dad. Don't front me. For once. Just tell me the truth. I came from there, too.
You were just a kid.
I saw your face. You knew that place. You knew those people.
That's the past. It's dead.
Dead? I don't think your past is dead. It's alive. And it bites.
Please...help me...
Dad?
Help me. I'm so sorry. But please, help me...
Daddy?
We're here. Where the hell are you?
Back here. At the end of the block.
You got the cash?
You got the shit?
Yeah, but you got to come the rest of the way on foot. Leave your car and walk over here.
Let me see it.
Let me see it.
Where is it?
I can't carry it in my pocket, man. And I can't go get it for you cause you might be a cop. You gonna have to pick it up yourself.
Don't worry. It's just round the corner. Halfway down that block, you can't miss it. Top step of the front stairs, there's a loose stone. Go on, I ain't shitting you.
Fuck it. Alright.
no really, let us help. We're new in the neighborhood, gonna be neighbors.
You moved into this block?
Are they on the radio?
Naw. But they will be. They're the best.
How do you know?
I manage them.
Guess it's not Rossmore Park. Thanks for the help.
Anytime. Be seeing you.
Careful. That's bad luck.
That place is already bad luck.
Why?
No. It goes way back. Or so my Momma says.
What else does she say?
Nothing. You'd think she was crazy. And she is a lot of things, not all of them nice, but crazy Momma's not.
Way I figure, everything our parents tell us is part true and part total B.S. And our whole job is figuring out for ourselves which is which.
My momma says every house is two houses. Every street, two streets. There's a whole city, a whole world, kinda beside, on top, just below this one. The city of the dead.
Like right now, there's actually like hordes of dead people shambling around us? Fingers rotting off?
Maybe. But there's an invisible wall, a fabric that kinda keeps things separate.
Lucky thing.
Yeah. But when something bad happens, something really bad  the wall breaks. The fabric tears.
The dead get out?
Or the living fall in. Who knows.
And you believe her?
If I did, I wouldn't come within fifty yards of your door.
Cinn?
What? Oh yeah. Coming.
She doesn't want me here. With you. In this house.
Believe me, my old man'd rupture his spleen if he knew we was down here. All he talks about is the medal he deserves for building us a life as far from this 'hood as possible.
He probably thinks he's saving you from something. I'm sure that's what my mother thinks.
I'm sure I can make your mother like me. But then do I gotta worry 'bout your father?
I can't. Not yet.
It's alright. If you want to go home...
No, I want to stay with you guys. But I can't. I mean I'm not ready.
Don't worry about it. I'll stay with the boys.
Why couldn't you just tell him to let us in?
My old man calls the shots. He built that gate and these damn walls.
I'm here.
Bill! Bill?!
Patrick, he's...
Okay, okay. Listen:
Here, find my hand. The stairs are right near here. I saw them. Let's just walk up there.
I can't find you.
Here!
We gotta jump!
I can't!
Aren't you going to join us?
I have to finish this for class.
You got a vision, girl. Just like I got. Just like my momma had. And the good Lord didn't give you that vision just for painting pretty pictures. That's just wasted time.
You mean as opposed to your life?
I'm sorry, Momma. Maybe next time.
I don't want you meeting around that house. You stay away from those kids. And away from that dog.
They seemed alright. Bring a little life to that old building.
Nothing but a wide world o' pain locked in there.
Have you ever been inside?
Maybe once upon a time. But that was long ago. Back before... before it became what it is.
And what's that?
Just a bad place. And the doorway to worse.
...I've seen things. In there. Last night. You did too. Don't tell me you didn't. You were crying like a baby.
You said the vision, the images. They're just that. Just pictures. They can't hurt you. That's what you always said.
I lied.
All the more reason I should be here.
Please. It's for your own good.
You said bad things hurt places. So maybe good things heal them. Good things are happening here. Maybe for the first time ever. And maybe that's all it takes.
It's alright, baby.
Who was he, Momma? He tried to kill us.
If he was trying to kill you, you'd be dead.
Who? Who is he? What is he?
Your father. He was your father.
You got his hands. Beautiful hands. I didn't even know. That night. When they  we  killed him, that you were already alive inside me. Life's like that. Grows right out of death.
But if it's him. If he's really come back, won't he know us? Love us?
Sure, if it was really him. But it isn't that simple. Jimmy's body died a long time ago. And his soul is long gone, and all that's left is that ravening, hungry spirit in the blood that soaked into the house itself, I suppose.
But how do you know? Maybe he just wanted to see us? And now he's gone again. And you've all killed my father for the second time.
He'll kill them. He'll kill every last one of them.
Who?
Eddie Mack, that cop. And Jeremiah. And even when he's done, who knows. He won't be satisfied. Just like that demon dog. Feed it, and it just grows hungrier. Feed his hunger for revenge  he just wants more. Who knows where it'll stop. That kind of hunger ain't never satisfied.
Aren't you gonna do something about it?
Like what? I got a little power, sure. A touch of the shining, a little of the sight. But no more than you do. We're not witches. I can't wiggle my nose or say a magic word and make him go away. Besides, maybe they deserve it. Maybe we all do.
I don't. Patrick doesn't. And his brother and sister don't. And they're in the house with him.
Fine. Maybe I got nothing to lose. 'Cept you.
We'll have to sneak in.
No we won't, Momma. I'll just have them call and tell Patrick it's us.
Girl, they build gates like that to keep people like us out.
Told you so. Alright. We tried. Let's go home.
Mother! No.
In his grave there was a cloth or a dress or something. Covered with blood.
My God. My dress. We have to find it. And burn it. And shut the door.
'Sup Jimmy B. Shotgun. Get back on the curb! Now!
Go easy on Jay Bird. I can remember when we was his age...
It's all arranged for tonight. Eddie Mack's gonna be there. And Offisa Korruptsky, too.
They get about twelve and a half minutes. Tops.
Trust me, Jimmy, there's big money behind this. Not just big. BIG. Like big business big. Big corporation big. Big government big. Our little acre alone'll net hundreds a thousands. Nothing but net.
Nothing but net? Could be a swish. Or a muthafucking air ball.
One simple word, three little letters. Yes. That's all it's gonna take and we could move out of this dump, get the real deal. Big houses, legit business...
That's your dream, Homes. Not mine. I don't want to leave this street. Ever. The status quo is totally cool with me.
Hey Jimmy, you know Eddie Mack, don't you?
We met.
Everybody just be cool. Jimmy, man, I think you oughtta hear the deal.
I don't need to hear the deal. I don't need any partners. I don't need new product. And I sure as hell don't need this motherfucker's 'mattie in my face.
Sorry, my brother.
Since we was just grasshoppers...
You always told me, it's a dog eat dog world.
What it will be.
How did you get in here?
Time like this, is that what you really want to know? How I got the fuck in here?
I don't understand it. You were my Man. Since we was grasshoppas. I always looked after you. You had a piece of everything I had.
I didn't want a piece of yours, I wanted my own.
And the hell everybody else, right?
Wait, Jimmy. Think about it. You woulda done the same thing if you was me.
No brother. I wouldn'ta. I never done a man  any man. Let alone a brother like that. Course, as you can see, no good deed goes unfucked. Now the question is, if the good get fucked, what we got saved up for the bad? You about to find out.
What will it take? What do you want? Just tell me, Jimmy!
Aw that's easy. I want my life back. Can you swing that, my brother?
You know I can't.
Then fuck it!!!
Maybe I oughtta get there a little early. For good luck.
Don't need luck tonight. I'm just letting 'em have their say before I say no.
Let me see your hand.
All that shinin' and "reader and adviser" mess. That was your mama's bag. I don't know about the readin' but you both can sure 'nuff advise.
My mama's bag and my granma's bag, and a long line of mamas before her.
Sounds like mama needs a brand new bag.
Left hand's the past. Your right's the present. And the future. But it's not written in stone. It's written in flesh and blood. And flesh and blood will change. See? There's something here, a new line, right across your life line.
Must be my clothes line. No? How bout my phone line?
No baby. I'm serious. Cancel that meeting. I got more fruit that needs checking. Come home with me now.
Don't you worry about a thing. This hand's gonna be stroking the back of your neck tonight.
Gotta be an iney and gotta be smooth. If it's ragged, it was picked too soon. Won't ever be ripe. Second, it's got to have just a little give, here. At the edges. And last, but not very far from least... You gotta get your nose in it and give it a gooooood, looooong sniff.
I don't know whether to chill you and serve with cottage cheese, or rip you open and eat you right here.
No? That mean there's something more left of you than just that hungry spirit? What are you going to do now? Kill us? Kill us all?
No. Not...not you. You I forgive.
Jimmy, you've got 
I've got what I want. Turn around baby, look at me. Look at your man.
I want you to do something for me, baby.
What?
Where are we, baby?
Where we'll always be...
But.
Hush, baby.
Yeah, we used to do the afterschool b ball at Kenwood. What it is?
What it will be.
You got a nice crib here.
I do alright. Everybody's happy.
But things change. You gotta think ahead.
What else? Money.
It ain't the money  it's the high. The big fat floating 'what if?' And it's way more profitable. Nobody ever wins. So you never have to pay out.
But a two dollar bet is cheaper than a twentydollar bag.
Yeah, but I ain't talking horse. I'm talking about a fivedollar kick in the head that's a quick ticket to heaven. And the fools keep coming back for more.
Those 'fools' are my people.
Ain't no big thang. It's just a po' man's free base. Here, check it out.
I ain't interested. And if you gonna sell it, don't sell it round here.
Just try it.
I said, no thanks.
Go on. It won't kill you.
Looking to score?
Unhunh, little brother. I got a natural high. A supernatural high.
Hey, Eddie Mack don't like no wackos on his street. Go be Rain Man on some other bitch's block.
Big Bad Eddie Mack? Got shit for brains and that's a fack. Heyheh...
You tell my old friend Mackie, I'll be seeing him. Soon. Real soon.
Whwhwhooo?
Bones.
Don't poison your mind with that ghetto paranoia. That's all just ways of people justifying their own failure.
Dad, the man has been lying to us for a hundred years. I mean, where is my forty acres and a mule?
You wouldn't know a mule if it bit you in the ass. And personally, I don't need a mule. I got a Lexus. And nobody gave it to me 
That's what?
That's some terrible shit.
Clean your mouth, or I will. Those boys had no business messing down there. Go places you're not meant to be  that's what you get.
But that's your old hood, Pops.
Yeah, and it took some doing to get out of there. Just be glad I did and you can start life from here instead of down there.
Looks like a damn graveyard round here.
I'm telling you, this neighborhood is coming back.
Damn. That is the ugliest building I have ever seen.
Naw. I think it's... I dunno. Something about it just buzzes me.
You want us to move in here?
That's the only way we'll get the place fixed up in time.
You soundin' like the old man now.
I believe in you guys. You are the real shit. And you know it. Now I'm putting everything I got into this cuz I think we can make it happen, but you gotta put a little in too. Now all I"m asking is that everybody do their part. We'll move some shit in, and take shifts, or all crash together here 
Pat's right. It'll be fun.
Tia ain't a chick. She's family. And don't forget it.
Let's get going. Go home, pick up what we need, then crash here.
Shit.
Spooked?
No. Well, yeah. Maybe just a little.
Yeah, there is a strange vibe here.
Where's the others?
Maurice left. Tia's taking a bath.
Yeah, we can. Least till after this weekend. He ain't going nowhere. We'll deal with it then.
Whatever, let's just get the hellout of here.
You sure got a way with women, bro. What happened up there?
Damned if I know.
Where's the gangsta of love?
Probably stoned out of his gourd in some corner.
Well, go find his lazy ass. I scratch any more tonight I'm gonna have carpal tunnel syndrome.
You ain't going down there. Not alone. I'll go.
Fine. But I'm bringing a couple of friends.
We can climb out.
Climb out to where?
Anywhere but here.
Is this Hell?
Or just Helladjacent...
We practically paying him for the privilege of playing his club.
So what the hell's the good news?
Bones! How baddass is zat? This is the place for us. Patrick, you get platinum props, man. Platinum.
Yeah, in the land of the blind the one eye'd are king.
What's your problem with Crippled Dick?
Look around, this place is a dump! Naw, it'd have to work to be a dump.
Are you nuts?
The man said just to use my imagination. Let's see...yeah, I get it. Potential. I can see it now. The first major urban theme park. Village Ghetto land. Kinda like Legoland, but made entirely from broken glass, hypodermic needles and crack vials. Totally Eticket.
Keep smokin', fool.
You didn't hear that? "Take him... " Something. "Bury him" or...
Take who where? What you smokin'?
'S up?
Nothing. Contact paranoia. Must be buggin' from hanging with you.
Ugh. Muchos moscos, man. This is too much.
Just some flies.
Some flies? I think this qualifies as way more than "some."
Oh yeah, I guess this would be that space that was so perfect for a recording studio.
Maurice, man, shut the fuck up.
Boys and girls, Moms and Dads. Children of all ages, I'd like you to meet... Jimmy Bones.
What the hell you talking about?
"This is the story of Jimmy Bones/Black as night and hard as stones/Gold plated deuce, like the King of Siam/Got his switchblade loose, and a diamond on his hand..." There's the switchblade and there's the diamond. Don't know where the deuce is parked.
You think that's really him?
Damn. It's so...fresh.
...Bones ol' Bones so mean and bad, whupped his mamma, shot his dad.
Saw Bones ol' Bones on top of the hill. Rolling fat jays outta hundred dollar bills.
Can you take a little extended solo right about now, funk soul brotha?
Go for it.
Hey, watcha doing with that dog?
He yours, sir?
Hell no!
Then what do you care?
Take my advice. And shoot that dog. Or let me.
Alright. Yes sir. Anything you say.
Is it true?
Yeah. He lived there. And died there, too.
Died there? How?
How the hell should I know?
Hey, kid.
Yeah?
Take my advice. Get the hell out of there. It's a bad place. Always has been.
Don't feed that dog.
You people really don't like dogs.
Some holes can't be filled. Some hungers can't be satisfied.
Outta my way, boy. Cinnabar? I'm coming!
Why don't you hang on and I'll see if she's here.
I know damn well she's there.
We can't go back there. Are you crazy? You saw 
It's the only way. It's possible your father may not be dead yet.
Your father was his best friend. He loved Jeremiah. So he must hate him the most of all now. He'll take his time. But even if it is too late. If your father is dead. It's not over. The door has to be closed.
Well, close the fucking door by all means. But don't expect me to go down there and do it.
I don't.
Your mother left explicit instructions that she wished to be cremated.
Cremated?!
When did she decide this?
Apparently just before her death.
Well, that's crazy. I don't know anybody who gets cremated.
It clearly states in the will 
I don't care what it says! Maybe Mama was delirious, you know. She didn't know what she was saying. If she wanted to be cremated, why the hell did she let dad buy two plots, huh?
Well, she was very specific. She wanted her ashes to be thrown over Roseman Bridge.
WHAT!
Well, it was notarized, and witnessed by a Mrs. Lucy Delaney. Maybe you can ask her.
Who the hell is Lucy Delaney?
Oh my God...!
What happened?
I was paying the check. She ran outside. I told her to wait for me right here! Oh God, where is she? Rebecca!
Think for a second. Is there someplace she said she wanted to go?
I don't remember!
About an hour ago.
They're not going to find her!
Yes, they are.
Are you seeing Betty tonight?
Nah.
Okay.
What's her name?
Betty.
What's she like?
Okay.
Uh... Yeah. Yeah. She's real nice.
Well, what's nice about her? Tell us!
Well, she's... she's real pretty and ... and she's got a cute shape... she's a good sport, ya know, for laughs and ... she loves fried chicken wings and beer.
Isn't that nice? You should bring her home to meet us!
You feeling better Franny?
Yes. I'm fine. It's just this heat I think.
It's a Chicago station. I found it the other day.
Kinda pretty. Is this uh... jazz kinda singing?
I don't know. Can we turn it off? I have such a headache.
Sure.
'Bout 4:30.
Well you should all go to bed early. I'll do the cleaning up.
What time is it?
Later. Go back to sleep.
Where you going?
I'm not tired. I thought I might finish Carolyn's skirt.
Now?! It's after eleven.
I can't sleep.
Again? Maybe you should see a doctor.
I'm not sick, Richard. I'm just not tired, now go back to sleep before you're up for the whole night too!
"I had forgotten this. I had somehow remembered it being more his fault, his decision. Then I remembered we made love in that field before we left for home. And I remembered it was my idea. I remembered tearing his shirt and biting his body, hoping he would kidnap me. I had forgotten that too. And I wondered, as I sat there... how many other things I'd forgotten."
Frannie.
I'm positive.
I'm going to miss you.
It's only four days.
Want anything special for dinner?
Hmm. How about that brown sugar meat loaf you make?
Okay.
Franny?
Hmm?
I just want to say... I know you had your own dreams. I'm sorry I couldn't give them to you. I love you so much.
Mrs. Johnson! Mrs. Johnson! Is it true Cary Grant has proposed to you?
Yes. And I've accepted.
What about his engagement to Dyan Cannon?
I said to him Cary you're being ridiculous. You're more than half her age. He said no one had ever been that honest with him and he falls in love with me.
What about your husband?
I'm very sad but Richard said that since it's Cary Grant, he completely understands. I'm also taking Mrs. Delaney away from this town. She'll be living with Cary and I in Beverly Hills.
Are you supposed to be in Iowa?
Yeah.
Roseman Bridge?
That's it.
Well, you're pretty close. It's only about two miles from here.
Oh, terrific. Which way?
If I'm not taking you away from anything.
No. I was just going to have some iced tea then split the atom, but that can wait. I just have to get my shoes.
Pretty country.
Hmmmmm.
There's a wonderful smell about Iowa  very particular to this part of the country. Do you know what I mean?
No.
I can't describe it. I think it's from the loam in the soil. This very rich, earthy kind of... alive... No. No, that's not right. Can you smell it?
Maybe it's because I live here.
That must be it. It's a great smell.
Are you from Washington originally?
Uhhuh. Lived there till I was twenty or so and then moved to Chicago when I got married.
Oh. When did you move back?
After the divorce.
Oh.
How long you been married?
Uh... uh... Umm... long time.
You don't look like a native, if you don't mind my saying so.
No, I don't mind. I'm not from here. I was born in Italy.
Well, from Italy to Iowa  that's a story! Whereabouts in Italy?
Small town on the Eastern side no one's ever heard of called Bari.
Oh yeah, Bari. I've been there.
No, really?
Oh, yeah. Actually, I had an assignment in Greece and I had to go through Bari to get the boat at Brindisi. But it looked so pretty I got off and stayed for a few days. Breathtaking country.
You just... got off the train because it looked pretty?
Yeah. Excuse me a sec.
So, how long you've been living here?
Long. You just got off the train and stayed without knowing anyone there?
Yeah.
This won't take long. I'm shooting tomorrow morning. I just need to do some prep work.
I don't mind waiting.
This time of year.
Would you do me a favor and go to the truck? Inside that leather bag with the pockets is a package of lens cleaners. Would you grab me one?
Oh there you are.
Oh! You caught me.
Men sill give women flowers, don't they? I mean, as a sign of appreciation? I'm not that out of date, am I?
No, not at all  except those are poisonous.
WHAT!
Are you by nature a sadistic person?
No, I'm not. I don't know why I said that. I've been in a very... strange mood all day. I've never done anything like that before. It's... I'm just... Well, you know, the whole world is just going nuts.
Looking for something in particular? There's not much of a selection.
I found this Chicago station before. Wait a minute... Here it is.
Oh, that's nice.
Want another cigarette?
Sure.
Well, thank you for all your help, Mrs. Johnson.
Francesca.
Francesca. Robert.
Lemon?
Sure.
Mind if I smoke?
Not at all.
Sure you want to keep those in the house?
I'm so sorry about that. It was rude. I think I just got nervous for some reason.
I thought it was funny.
Where are you staying while you're here?
A little place with cabins. The somethingMotor Inn. I haven't checked in yet.
And how long are you here for?
As long as it takes, I might stay a week. No more I don't think. Where's your family?
My husband took the kids to the Illinos State Fair. My daughter's entering a prize steer.
Oh. How old?
About a year and a half.
No, your kids.
Oh. Michael's 17 and Carolyn's 16.
Must be nice having kids.
Everything does. One of the laws of nature. People are always so afraid of change. But if you look at it like it's something you can count on happening, it's actually a comfort. Not many things you can count on for sure.
I guess. Except I'm one of the people it frightens.
I doubt that.
Why?
Italy to Iowa? I'd call that a change.
Richard was in the army. I met him while I was living in Naples. I didn't know where Iowa was. I only cared that it was America. And of course, being with Richard.
What's he like?
He's very... clean.
Clean?
No. I mean yes, he's clean but he's also other things. He's a very hard worker. Very honest. Very caring. Gentle. Good father.
And clean.
Yes. Very clean.
Feeling better?
Much.
Is the dizziness gone?
I think so.
I better go. You sure you're all right? It's been a pleasure. Sincerely.
I feel so embarrassed.
Why? You uncorked a bottle. From what I can tell, I got here just in time. Any later and you'd have made the front page, running down Main Street naked, smoking Camels out of your butt.
But I... We don't even know each other.
You have no reason to feel ashamed. You haven't said anything you don't have a right to. And if anybody tells you different  you just send them to me.
Would you like to stay for dinner? There aren't many choices in town and ... anyway, you'd have to eat alone. So would I.
That's very nice of you. I don't get many dinner invitations on the job. It would be a welcome change. Thanks.
Help cook?
Sure. Men cook. We don't all eat bananas with our feet, ya know.
Okay.
What?
She starts sniffing me.
Oh my God... You're blushing.
It's still a very sensitive memory for me.
Then what happened?
We got engaged.
Oh you!
You ought to write these stories down.
Nah. I've tried. My writing's too technical, I think. Problem of being a journalist too long is you stop giving yourself permission to invent. I better just stick to making pictures.
"Making pictures." I like that. You really love what you do, don't you?
I'm kind of obsessed by it, actually.
Why, do you think?
I don't know if obsessions have reasons. I think that's why they're obsessions.
You sound like an artist.
No. I wouldn't say that. National Geographic isn't exactly the hub of artistic inspiration. They like their wild life in focus and without any personal comment. I don't mind really. I'm not artist. I'd faced that a long time ago. It's the course of being welladjusted. I'm too normal.
I don't think you're normal.
I didn't mean that the way it sounded.
Well, let's just call it a compliment and move on. Did you love teaching?
And did you?
I'd like to think so. I know one of them went on to Medical school.
Why did you stop?
My children. And Richard didn't like my working.
Do you miss it?
I don't know. I've never thought about it... what was the most exciting place you've ever been to? Unless you're tired of talking about it.
You're asking a man if he's too tired to talk about himself? You don't get out much, do you?
I'm sorry. That was...
No. It's all right. I just meant, it might be a little dull for you, telling all this to some housewife in the middle of nowhere.
This is your home. It's not nowhere. And it's not dull.
My God. How I'd love to see that.
They have safaris for tourists now. Maybe you can convince your husband.
Well, it's kind of buggy out there.
Have no fear. This Shoshone Medicine Woman taught me how to make bug repellent tea out of tree root.
You drink bug repellent?
No, you rub it on you. I have some in the truck. Don't go away.
Smells like dirt.
You get used to it.
When?
You want to go back in?
No. I'm all right. It's working.
You've got it all right here, you know. It's just as beautiful as any other place I've seen. God, it knocks me out.
What?
This "... Of what I call God and fools can Nature." Who wrote that?
Umm, I don't know. I can look it up.
I'd appreciate it. I like knowing who I'm stealing from. If you can't create art I think the least you can do is recognize it around you, don't you think? There is... ... so much beauty.
You sure you won't let me help you with those dishes?
No. I'll do them later.
Francesca?
What?
Are you all right?
Yes.
Francesca?
What?
We're not doing anything wrong, do you.
Do you mind if I... ask you why you got divorced?
Not at all. I wasn't around much... So why did I get married? Well, I thought it was a good idea at the time. Have a home base. Roots. You can get lost moving around so much.
So what happened?
I never got lost. For some reason, I'm more at home everywhere than at one place. So I decided I'll think of myself as some kind of world citizen. I belong everywhere and nowhere. I'm kin to everyone, and no one in particular. See, once you get into the habit of not needing anyone, it's kind of hard to break.
You must get lonely at times.
Never touch the stuff. I've got friends all over the world. Good friends I can see when I want, if I want.
Woman friends, too?
I'm a loner, I'm not a monk.
You really don't need anyone?
No, I think I need everyone! I love people. I want to meet them all! I just think there are too many out there saying "This is mine." or "She's mine." Too many lines have been drawn. World's breaking apart because of man's weakness for some testosterone conquests over territory and power and people. He wants control over what deep down he knows he has no control over whatsoever and it scares him silly.
Why doesn't it scare you?
I embrace Mystery. I don't know what's coming. And I don't mind.
Do you ever regret it? The divorce, I mean.
No.
Do you ever regret not having a family?
Not everybody's supposed to have a family.
But  how can you just live for what you want? What about other people?
I told you, I love other people.
But no one in particular.
No. But I love them just the same.
But it's not the same.
That's not what you're saying. I know it's not the same. What you're saying is, it's not as good. Or it's not as normal or proper.
No, I'm just saying 
I'm a little sick of this American Family Ethic everyone seems to be hypnotized by in this country. I guess you think I'm just some poor displaced soul doomed to roam the earth without a selfcleaning oven and home movie.
Just because someone chooses to settle down and have a family doesn't necessarily mean they're hypnotized. Just because I've never seen a gazelle stampede doesn't mean I'm asleep in the world.
Do you want to leave your husband?
My mistake. I apologize.
What made you ask such a question?
I thought that's what we were doing  asking questions.
I thought we were just having a conversation. You seem to be reading all this meaning into it. Meanings I must be too simple to, uh... interpret or something.
I already apologized.
Listen, I'm sorry I 
No, no. Forgive me. I made a mistake. It was an inappropriate thing to ask.
... I feel like something's been spoiled now.
Francesca?
Yes! Hi.
Am I interrupting anything?
No. I was just... No.
I'm sorry I didn't call sooner, but I just read your note. I stuffed it into my pocket. The light was fading and I had to get my shot.
The light was fading. Huhhuh.
I would love to come for dinner.
Wonderful. Uh...
Listen, I have to shoot Cedar Bridge until a little after sunset. I want a few night shots. Would you like to come with me? If you're interested...
Oh, sure. Great.
I'll pick you up.
No. I'll drive myself. I have a few errands. I'll meet you there.
Okay. See you later.
Yeah. See you later.
It's Robert.
Oh, hi. Look, I'm running a little late, but I'll still...
Listen, don't take this the wrong way but, I'm wondering if this is such a good idea.
Oh.
I uh... I had lunch in town today. Happened to cross paths with "that Redfield woman." I apologize. I thought you were halfjoking about that.
Oh. I guess you got the whole story.
The cashier at the general store was very dangerous.
I think he's running for town crier next year.
I now know more about their affair than I remember about my marriage. Francesca, the last thing I want to do is put you in any kind of situation that would... even though we know it's just  I mean, it's nothing like that, but if anybody saw us or...
I understand. That's very kind of you.
Yeah?
I want you to come.
Sorry I'm late. Richard called.
Oh, how is he?
Fine. They're all having a good time. How many more shots do you have?
Couple. Want to help?
Can I help?
Actually, no. I've got everything under control. I'd like to clean up myself a bit. I'm going to take a bath. Dinner'll be ready in about a half hour.
How about if I set the table?
Sure.
Would you like a beer for your bath?
Yes, that'd be nice.
Are you comfortable? Do you... want to move to the bedroom?
No. I can't. Not yet.
You want to eat something?
Are you hungry?
No.
Take me somewhere.
What?
Right now. Tell me someplace you've been  someplace on the other side of the world. Anywhere but here.
How about Italy?
Yes.
How about Bari?
Yes. Tell me about the day you got off the train.
Have you ever been to that station?
Yes.
You know that little place nearby with the striped awning that sells sandwiches and little pizzas...
Oh, I'm sorry.
It's okay. It's not that hot anymore. Thanks God.
I just feel like I'm getting a little ... out of control that's all. It's kind of frightening.
Why?
Why!? Because, I'm having thoughts I hardly know what to do with. I... can't seem to... stop them.
Nobody's asking you to.
And arraccinos and zeppolis. Yes! I know it!
I sat outside and had coffee.
Where? Near the doorway or the near the front of the church?
Near the church.
I sat there once. It was hot. Like today. I'd been shopping. I had all these bags around my feet I kept having to move every time the waiter came by...
On that one is beautiful. Look at their expressions. As if the camera weren't on them at all. As if they had no strength left to hide what they were feeling.
He's a genius. They're not photographs  they're stories, entire histories captured in moments.
I bet you could do a book.
No. I couldn't.
Why do you say that?
Because I already tried once.
But you don't mind.
No, I don't mind.
What were you like when you were younger?
Trouble. Why?
I just wondered. Why were you trouble?
I had a temper.
What were your parents like?
I can't do this, honey.
What?
Try and live a lifetime before Friday. Cram it all in.
You're somewhere else, where?
Just that it's been a perfect day and that I'd like to skip my fancy dessert and go home after this.
Uhhuh. And?
You're right, you know. We don't have much time.
Where was she?
Across the street. She went into the park and got turned around and didn't know her way out.
I don't know why I'm so tired all of a sudden.
Long day. Go to sleep.
Am I too heavy for you?
No.
Sleep all right?
Yes, thanks.
Good. More coffee? Robert, I hope you don't mind my asking, but I feel like I should.
What?
Well, these... women friends of yours... all over the world. How does it work? Do you see some of them again? Do you forget others? Do you write them now and then? How do you manage it?
I... What do you want?
Well, I just want to know the procedure. I don't want to upset your routine. Do you want any jam?
Routine! I don't have a routine. And if you think that's what this is 
Well, what is this?
Well, why is that up to me? You're the one who's married. You told me you have no intention of leaving your husband.
To do what? Be with someone who needs everyone and no one in particular? I mean, what would be the point. Would you pass the butter?
I was honest with you. I told you who I was.
Yes. Absolutely. You have this habit of not needing and that it's hard to break. I understand. Of course, in that case, why sleep  you don't need rest or for that matter eat, you don't need food.
What are you doing?
Gee, I don't know. I guess I'm not cut out to be a World Citizen who experiences everything and nothing at the same time.
How do you know what I experience?
I know you! What can this possibly mean to anyone who doesn't "need" meaning  "Who goes with the Mystery"  who pretends he isn't scared to death.
Stop it!
You have no idea what you've done to me, do you? And after you leave, I'm going to have to wonder for the rest of my life what happened here. If anything happened at all! And I'll have to wonder if you find yourself in some... housewife's kitchen in Romania if you'll sit there and tell her about your world of good friends and secretly include me in that group.
What do you want me to say?
I don't want you to say anything. I don't need you to say anything.
STOP IT!
Fine. More eggs or should we just fuck on the linoleum one last time?
I told you! I won't apologize for who I am.
No one's asking you to!
I won't be made to feel like I've done something wrong.
You won't be made to feel! Period. You've carved out this little part for yourself in the world where you get to be a voyeur, a hermit and a lover whenever you feel like it and the rest of us are just supposed to feel so incredibly grateful for the brief time you've touched our lives! Well, go to hell! It isn't human not to feel lonely  it isn't human not to afraid! You're a hypocrite and you're a phony!
I DON'T WANT TO NEED YOU!
WHY?
BECAUSE I CAN'T HAVE YOU!
WHAT DOES THAT HAVE TO DO WITH IT?
If I've done anything to make you think that what's happened between us is nothing new for me  is some routine  then I do apologize.
What makes it different, Robert?
No matter how I keep turning it around in my mind  it doesn't seem like the right thing.
For who?
For anyone. They'll never be able to live through the talk. Richard will never be able to. He doesn't deserve that. He hasn't hurt anyone in his life.
Then he can move! People move!
His family's lived for almost a hundred years. Richard doesn't know how to live anywhere else. And the kids...
The kids are grown! They don't need you anymore. You told me that. They hardly talk to you.
No, they don't say much. But Carolyn's 16. She's just about to find out about all this for herself  she's going to fall in love, she's going to try and figure out how to build a life with someone. If I leave what does that say to her?
What about us? What about me?
You've got to know deep down that the minute we leave here. It'll all change.
Yeah. It could get better.
No matter how much distance we put between us and this house, I bring with it with me. And I'll feel it every minute we're together. And I'll blame loving you for how much it hurts. And then even these four days won't be anything more than something sordid and... a mistake.
Francesca, listen to me. You think what's happened to us happens to just anybody? What we feel for each other? How much we feel? We're not even two separate people anymore. Some people search their whole lives for it and wind up alone  most people don't even think it exists and you're going to tell me that giving it up is the right thing to do? That staying here alone in a marriage, alone in a town you hate, in a house you don't feel apart of anymore  you're telling me that's the right thing to do!?
We are the choices we've made, Robert.
TO HELL WITH YOU!
Robert. Please. You don't understand  no one does. When a woman makes the choice to marry, to have children  in one way her life begins but in another way it stops. You build a life of details. You become a mother, a wife and you stop and stay steady so that your children can move. And when they leave they take your life of details with them. And then you're expected move again only you don't remember what moves you because no one has asked in so long. Not even yourself. You never in your life think that love like this can happen to you.
But now that you have it 
I want to keep it forever. I want to love you the way I do now the rest of my life. Don't you understand  we'll lose it if we leave. I can't make an entire life disappear to start a new one. All I can do is try to hold onto to both. Help me. Help me not lose loving you.
I don't know. Please...
I'm going to be here a few more days. I'll be at the Inn. We have some time. Let's not say any more now.
No. Don't do this.
I CAN'T SAY GOODBYE YET! We'll leave it for now. We're not saying goodbye. We're not making any decision. Maybe you'll change your mind. Maybe we'll accidentally run into each other and ... and you'll change your mind.
Robert, if that happens, you'll have to decide. I won't be able to.
Madge?
Hi. I made some brown betty. I sent Floyd off to town with the boy. I said  "Floyd, I'm going to visit my girlfriend and spend the afternoon and that's all there is to it. He said who's going to make lunch? I said I'm taking a sick day. Eat at the dinner." Isn't that hilarious? He didn't dare raise an eyebrow  I don't even want to tell you how late he was out last night with those good for nothings from the Sandford ranch. I am so sorry, honey, I let two days pass before I came by, but with the boy home the time just escapes me. Have you heard from Richard? How's the fair? God, it's hot.
Madge. Please. Something's happened. I've met someone. I've fallen in love in a way I've never thought could happen my entire life. It's our last day together. I feel like I'm going to die when he leaves. Please. Help me.
Oh, honey. I'm so sorry. But you've got to be grateful for even feeling the little you've be given. Believe me. Go to him. Don't let him leave without these new precious hours you've got left. And if you need anyone to cry on, you know where I am.
I don't know. I woke up a little dizzy. I didn't sleep well. I think I need to lay down.
You want me to call the doctor?
No, no. I just didn't sleep well. I'm not used to sleeping alone. And this heat. Would you mind?
No, of course not. I'll just clean up.
No, leave it. I'll do it later. Listen, maybe you and Floyd can come for dinner on Saturday. I'm sure Richard'll have so many stories to tell you both about the fair and all.
Oh, that'll be nice.
Oh, this heat! Times like this I wish we took that offer from your brother and moved on up to Michigan.
They got heat in Michigan.
Not this kind of heat.
Heat is heat.
Heat is not heat! There's different kinds! And this heat is much hotter than what they got in Michigan. You go and call your brother and see if he don't say the same thing.
I'll get right on it.
Well, nobody put a gun to his head.
Oh, shut up! It's the woman who's in control of these situations. Men don't know which end is up till a woman points.
What do you know about "the changes"?
Well, I didn't know they was a secret club.
Don't talk about what you don't know. Besides, she's too young for "the changes."
Mrs. Delaney. Did you hear the latest?
No, what?
See. Money don't buy happiness. I must say, she's taking it well.
I'd kill him. Him and that Redfield woman. Together. First one then the other. And then I'd laugh.
I'd laugh first then I'd kill them. Make sure they heard me laughing.
She's changed.
Oh, yes.
She used to be so friendly.
My niece had "the changes" when she was thirtyone.
No. What a tragedy. What happened?
She changed.
Explain to me again why we didn't do this in Des Moines in an air conditioned office?
Mom's orders.
Lawyer here?
I have some sandwich fixings if you're hungry.
He dropped them off at Betty's mom. Where's Steve?
He's not coming.
I thought everything WAS arranged.
Well, there's a problem.
What problem?
I remember a Mrs. Delaney but Mama told me years ago she died.
Well, I don't care if it's legal or not, we're not cremating her and throwing her all over some bridge where we can't even go visit her because she's going to be blown all over the place like an ashtray.
Yeah.
Michael.
What?!
Come here a minute.
" going over and over in my mind every detail, every moment of our time together and I ask myself, "What happened to me in Madison County?" I struggle to put it together in a way that allows me to continue knowing we're on separate roads. But then I look through the lens of my camera, and you're there. I start to write an article and I find myself writing it to you. It's clear to me now we have been moving towards each other, towards those four days, all our lives 
Goddamn sonofabitch! I don't want to hear anymore! Sonofabitch! Burn the damn thing! I don't want to hear it! Throw it away!
What's he saying now?
Well, he just gets on about how if mama ever needed him, she could find him through the National Geographic magazine. He as a photographer. He promises not to write again. Then all it says is... I love you... Robert.
Robert! Jesus! I'll kill him.
That would be some trick. He's already dead. That's what this other letter is. From his attorney. He left most of his things to mama and requested...
What?
That he be cremated and his ashes thrown on Roseman Bridge.
DAMN HIM! I knew mama wouldn't have thought of that herself. It was some damn perverted... photographic mind influencing her! When did the bastard die?
'82.
Wait a minute! That was thirty years after daddy. Do you think...?
I don't know. I'm completely in the dark here. That's what I get for moving away.
This happened way before we both got married. I... I can't believe it. You think she had sex with him?
My Lord. It must feel real nice living inside your head with Peter Pan and the Easter Bunny.
Don't talk to me like that. She was my mother for Christsakes. And now I find out she was... She was a !
Don't say that!
Well, what am I supposed to think?
I can't believe she never told me? We spoke at least once a week. How could she do that?
How did she meet him? Did Dad know? Anything else in that envelope?
No, I don't think so. I 
I can't believe she's making jokes.
Sshhh. "After going through the safety deposit box, I'm sure you'll find you're way to this letter. It's hard to write this to my own children. I could let this die with the rest of me, I suppose. But as one gets older, one fears subside. What becomes more and more important is to be known  known for all that you were during this brief stay. Row said it seems to me to leave this earth without hose you love the most ever really knowing who you were. It's easy for a mother to love her children no matter what  it's something that just happens. I don't know if it's as simple for children. You're all so busy being angry at us for raising you wrong. But I thought it was important to give you that chance. To give you the opportunity to love me for all that I was..."
Grateful!?
"... It's all there in the three notebooks. Read them in order. If you don't want to, I suppose that's okay too. But in that case I want you to know something  I never stopped loving your father. He was a very good man. It's just that my love for Robert was different. He brought out something in me no one had ever brought out before, or since. He made me feel like a woman in a way few women, maybe more, ever experience..."
That's it!
What are you doing?
This is crazy. She waits till she's dead to tell us all this. Well, I got news for you. She was my mother. That's enough for me. I don't have to know who she was.
Well, I'd like to read them.
No. We're going to lock this up and 
STOP IT! I want to read them! If you don't want to, then just leave. But don't you push me around like I'm some mule you paid for  I already GOT A HUSBAND!
He's getting her drunk. That's what happened. Jesus, maybe he forced himself. That's why she couldn't tell us.
Oh, he did not. He's such a nice guy.
Nice? He's trying to sleep with somebody's wife.
I don't think so. Not yet anyway. And besides, something like that doesn't make you a bad person. He reminds me of Steve in a way. Steve's weak, immoral and a liar but he's still a real nice guy. He just shouldn't be married. At least not to me. You getting hungry? I'm hungry.
I had no idea it's gotten that bad, sis.
Oh, don't feel sorry for me. Please. No one's forcing me to stay.
Then why do you?
And do what? Live alone? Go back to school? Find someone else? Start a magazine for confused woman? ... What if I can't do any of those things?
Bar across the street.
Have you called Betty? Maybe you should.
I found out who Lucy Delaney is. Remember the Delaneys from Hillcrest Road?
Yeah. But I thought she died.
He remarried. Apparently they were having an affair for years. Apparently the first Mrs. Delaney was a bit of a stiff.
You mean  she didn't like sex?
I bet mom could've helped her.
Boy. All these years I've resented not living the wild life in some place like Paris and all the time I could've moved back to Iowa... Are you drunk?
Not yet. You want to go?
I think I better. Between the book and the coffee, I'm this close to raping the busboy.
I used to love this place. I used to take Kathy Reynolds down here.
You never dated Kathy Reynolds!
Not officially. Her and Steve Kendall were pinned at birth. But I was crazy about her. And for about three months, I managed to catch her during her "exploring" stage.
I never knew that.
Nobody did.
Was this during Betty?
Everything was during Betty. God we were so young. Why did we think we had to do it all so fast? I've never cheated on Betty. Not once we were married, I mean.
Did we want to?
Only about a thousand times. What do I do now? "What's good enough for mom is good enough for me?"
What gets me is I'm 46 years old. I've been in this crummy fucking marriage 
Carolyn!
 for over twenty years because that's what I was taught  you stick with it! Normal people don't get divorced. I can't remember the last time my husband made love to me so intensely that he transported me to Europe, for Christ's sake  quite frankly, I don't think he ever did! And now I find out in between bake sales, my mother was Anais Nin!
What about me! I feel really weird. Like she cheated on me, not dad. Isn't that sick? I don't mean I wanted to sleep with her or anything but  ya know  being the only son. You're sort of made to feel like you're the prince of the kingdom, ya know? And in the back of your mind, you kind of think your mother doesn't need sex anymore because she has you.
You're right  that is sick.
I am so sick and tired of apologizing and not knowing what I've done!
I'm sure you haven't done anything. Have some iced tea. How are the kids?
Eeeww!
I know. I don't understand it either.
How bizarre!
Mr. Peterson, are you sure mama wrote all this?
Oh, just a old letter from a friend.
No treasure maps, huh?
No.
I do not need instructions from you to bathe! I knew you'd do this! I knew I'd come all the way here and be shut out as usual! I came to be here for you! I didn't have to come! Lord knows I was never much welcome in this house before. Apparently dead or alive, nothing's changed.
Aw, Betty.
Carolyn  you want these candlesticks?
No. You can have them.
No, we just had lunch at the hotel with my brother and his new wife. She told me all the dirt. I forgot how interesting things can get around here. It was so good to see them. The last time we visited they were in Europe. He is doing so well. He ordered champagne. For lunch! I nearly died.
I nearly died when we split the bill.
Michael doesn't understand. People who make the kind of money my brother makes don't carry money on them. They keep it all in various accounts.
Then we should have had lunch at the bank.
Boy. It sure has been a long time.
We were here two Christmases ago.
Well, that's a long time.
It's not that long.
Well, why don't I just say black so you can say white! Don't be surprised to find your brother hasn't changed an iota. He hardly ever talks and when he does it's in that tone! You should have heard him at lunch  not two words until the bill came and then he says, "Worth every penny."
SO!
You said it in that tone! Like you were angry at me, my brother, at the world for forcing you to eat a nice lunch!
Oh Jesus.
I simply can not stand that tone!
My Jewish friend's grandmother did.
Well, no one in my family did! Dad bought cemetery plots at Oak Ridge. One for him, one for mom.
Not to mention people driving over her and doggies doing their business 
We're not doing it! I'm not even sure it's Christian.
Maybe it's an Italian thing. Their mother was Italian.
Doesn't matter. Move on.
It's a beautiful picture of her.
Why are there two deeds here?
I don't mind waiting.
Well, there's a lot of boring stuff to do. Lists of people we have to write to. Find mama's relatives addresses in Italy  stuff like that.
Well, I can help.
I said NO!
I didn't know that Andrew was dead until Mr. Sattler called me at home that night.
We have a witness who saw you go into the house at four thirty.
Yes.
What time did you leave?
Six thirty  and he was very much alive.
Did Marsh use it?
No  never.
It had to get there somehow.
It didn't get there from me.
Albert's got the stomach flu.
That's too bad.
No, it's not. Now I get to pitch.
Michael, you shouldn't be happy when someone else isn't feeling well.
Not even if they're a dork?
Not even if they're a dork. You should go by and see how he's feeling.
Don't use language like that at the dinner table.
Sorry.
Let me go! Godammit, Frank let go!
Daddy  stop it!
You're on vacation, remember? You're supposed to be relaxing.
I am relaxing.
This is not relaxing.
Really?
Really.
And I suppose you're going to show me how to relax?
If you want me to.
I'm always open to learning new things.
Can't it wait?
No  it has to be done by tomorrow.
Hello?... Hi Raymond.... What?... Well, I was sort of planning on... Alright... Okay, goodbye. That was Sattler. He thinks the D.A.'s going to file on Rebecca Lawson. He wants me in the office tomorrow morning.
We're supposed to go to the lake.
I know. What can I do? He is the boss.
He could let you have your vacation.
I swear  the both of you. Some example you set.
Some example you set.
How can Cardenas possibly think he can build a case against two consenting adults?
He must have something or he wouldn't be pressing so hard.
If he files are you going to take the case?
I don't know yet. I want to hear what she says at her statement tomorrow.
What's she like?
Attractive. Bright. Distant. Charming when she wants to be.
She sounds like quite a woman.
Yeah  but can she cook?
Humped
Yes.
I can think of worse ways to go
Frank  I know you're busy, but Michael asked me after dinner if you were angry with him. He wanted to know why you weren't talking to him.
I'll talk to him later.
Why don't you talk to him now?
Because I go to trial in seven weeks. I've got a lot of preparing to do.
No one's asking you not to work. I just think you could make some time for your son.
Is that alright, Frank?
Yeah  fine. Excuse me. I'll be right back.
Yeah  what are you doing up?
We have to talk.
What's wrong?
That's what I was hoping you'd tell me.
Sharon, it's late. Can we get to the point?
Where have you been?
Working. Charlie and I were going over some statements.
Charlie called at eleven thirty looking for you. You were with her, weren't you?
Yes.
Why did you lie to me?
Because I knew you'd think exactly what you're thinking.
This isn't a courtroom. Don't try to turn this around on me.
I'm not.
You're sleeping with her, aren't you?
No.
It's bad enough that you are. It's even worse that you can stand here and lie to me.
I was thinking that when the trial is over we'd all go skiing for a weekend.
Maybe it would be a good idea if you just took Michael.
I know.
Talk to me.
You wouldn't like what you'd see. You don't know me anymore. I don't know me anymore.
We can't pretend this isn't happening.
Please  not now.
Why didn't you come to me?
I don't know.
You used to like to touch me  to make love to me.
It's more involved than that.
It was a place to start.
You think that's the answer? Sex? Is that what you want? You want me to make love to you?
I don't want our lives ruined because of this. I love you, Frank. I want this to work  but you have to help me. You have to come back from where ever it is you are.
Frank  stop it! Stop it!
Is this what you want  huh? Is it?
Do it quickly, Mr. Dulaney.
"Discourteous insinuations about his sexual abilities." Who told you to say that?
Mr. Dulaney, before you cast aspersions on the District Attorney's Office by suggesting they've coaxed this witness to say things that aren't true  you better have more than a hunch. Do you?
No, Your Honor.
Maybe you don't know what it's like where Mrs. Crawford comes from  but I do. I came from a neighborhood just like hers. This is a whole other world for her. She's a poor working woman who has been thrust into a room full of highly educated and mostly unsympathetic people. So, she puts on her best dress, fixes her hair and tries to present herself as intelligently as possible. Being poor and having pride is not a crime, Mr. Dulaney  and before you attempt to impeach another witness' testimony in my courtroom  your foundations better be based on something other than semantics.
But Your Honor
That's it, Mr. Dulaney. Take a seat.
Objection. The witness has already stated that Miss Lawson left without an explanation.
Mr. Cardenas, I suggest you move on to another line of questioning.
The witness will answer the question.
Mr. Roston?
Miss Braslow, I'd like to remind you that you are still under oath.
How often do you use cocaine?
Your Honor  the prosecution has introduced cocaine as one of the contributing reasons Mr. Marsh died. How it may have been introduced into the household is of vital importance.
Are you able to back up this allegation  or are you fishing?
I can back it up.
You better. Please answer the question.
What are they saying?
The kids at school say she humped Mr. Marsh to death.
Hey, you know better than that. What did I teach you to say when someone is accused of doing something?
She allegedly humped him to death?
You know how it is sometimes when you're out playing ball with your friends? How you're really concentrating on what you're doing  and you lose track of time and you come home late and Mom yells at you?
Yeah.
Well, that's kind of how I am right now.
Is Mom yelling at you too?
I love you.
I love you too, Dad.
Michael  get off the phone.
Why?
Because I'm expecting a call.
 But it's Sunday.
I know what day it is! Get off the phone.
I gotta go. I'll call you later.
Andrew Marsh was a very wealthy man. A trial like this is going to put Cardenas in the spotlight.
We've already got press arriving from over the country and she hasn't even been charged yet. Cardenas wants to see her in his office tomorrow at ten. I'd like you to go with her.
I'm supposed to be on vacation.
I know  but she wants you to represent her if Cardenas files.
Why?
Because I told her you were the best criminal attorney we have.
Raymond, I'm the only criminal attorney you have.
Well, I guess that makes you the best. Look, Frank  she stands to inherit three million dollars. As executors of the estate and her attorneys that could generate a lot of legal fees for us. All I'm asking you to do is talk to her.
Alright, I'll talk to her
She's waiting in the conference room.
Are you going to represent me?
There are no charges against you. I'm here to decide if I'm going to represent you should that occur. Did you kill him?
Do you think I did it?
I don't know. That's why I'm asking you.
You must have some feeling. Some immediate impression. A young, attractive woman, involved with an older man who leaves her everything in his will. And the things that went on in that house. Such wild sex. What kind of picture does that paint?
Not a very good one I'm afraid.
And that's exactly what the jury will see when they look at me. That's why I need a very good lawyer, Mr. Dulaney.
You're assuming the District Attorney is going to file charges.
He'll file. He's an ambitious man. Ambitious men build their careers on the bodies of others.
You still haven't answered my question.
Frank!
I'll have you out in a few hours.
I want you to know right now that the trial's going to be nasty. Your sex life is going to be dragged through the mud. They're going to say that you enticed Marsh  led him down a dark path.
Andrew hardly needed leading. He was a very passionate man. He was eager to explore. I gave him what he wanted. We fulfilled each others needs.
This is a very small town  people here have very straight views on sex.
I'm used to being on the outside looking in. The same men who will publicly profess their moral outrage for my sexual tastes are the same ones who privately rest their sweaty little hands on my legs and talk about weekend trips together.
Those same men will be sitting on the jury.
I am who I am. I can't deny it, anymore than you can deny who you are. I like sex different  I like it wild. That's not a crime. I loved Andrew. We made love together. We made it differently, but we still made love. It was our way. It was private  and now the whole world wants to look in through the pretense of justice. If I was some middleaged divorcee who screwed him once a week do you think this would be happening to me?
Have you ever seen animals make love, Mr. Dulaney? They have such passion  such savage emotion. They struggle, and snarl, and claw, but neither hurts the other. Not really.
No pain, no gain?
Something like that.
We're not animals.
I think we're getting a little off the subject here.
I thought the subject was sex?
As it pertains to you  not me. Did you always know you had different... tastes?
Yes.
How?
I don't know if it's something I can explain to you.
Why not?
Because  it's beyond intellect. It's emotion. It's passion. It has to be experienced  it can't be imagined.
Try.
When I was growing up we had a strawberry patch in our backyard. So did this family down the road. I used to sneak in their yard and steal their strawberries. It wasn't easy. The stone walls were high and I'd scrape my knees as I climbed over. On the other side were wild rose bushes. The thorns would dig into my legs and cut my thighs as I lowered myself down.
If you had what you wanted at home why did you sneak into their yard?
Because  somehow the fruit always tasted that much sweeter because of the pain it took to get to it.
How'd you meet Marsh?
I was at a cocktail party. Very trendy. Andrew was in Chicago on business. He had broken his wrist the week before and was wearing it in a sling. He looked so helpless.
 And then?
We started talking. In fact, we talked until four in the morning. We discovered we shared a lot of the same interests. After that we were together all the time until he left. He used to call me every night after he came back. Then after a few weeks he invited me to come visit him. I've never left.
Why didn't you live together?
Can we get out of here?
Sure. Where to?
This is your house.
I know.
Why not?
Because, I'm your attorney. I shouldn't be going to your house.
Is it against the law?
No  it just doesn't look right.
What do you think?
I think the photographer's probably a voyeur.
I'm the photographer.
Oh  Well, they're different.
That's not an answer.
It's not my taste.
Tastes can change.
Nothing.
Not true. Shall I tell you what you were thinking? You were wondering if I was wearing anything under my skirt.
Hello?
Hi. It's Frank.
Hi, Frank.
I just wanted to see if my secretary called to confirm your appointment tomorrow.
Yes  she did.
Great. I'll see you at the office at nine.
No  not at the office. I've got a better idea.
Yeah.
Andrew loved this old cabin. He always dreamed about moving to Tahiti  living in a hut and becoming a beachbum. I could never imagine myself doing that  but somehow when he talked about it, he made it sound so alive   so wonderful. Soft ocean breezes and beautiful sunsets  leaving the world and it's problems behind. I wish he'd had a chance to do it.
Sorry.
It's okay.
Tell me about Doctor Paley?
I hardly know him. He wanted me and he couldn't have me.
It's going to be hard to convince a jury that he's testifying against you in a murder trial because you blew him off.
It won't be that hard.
Did you always want to be a lawyer?
No  I wanted to be a professional hockey player.
Really?
Yeah.
That seems so far away from who you are now. What happened?
I broke my ankle skating. That ended that dream.
It's hard to let go of a dream, isn't it? To let go of what you want?
Yes  it would be nice.
What would?
You and me  making love.
Is that what you think I was thinking?
No  that's what I know you were thinking.
There's nothing wrong in admitting that you want me, Frank.
You take a lot for granted.
You lied to me!
What?
I just left Joanne Braslow. She told me she saw you doing cocaine at Marsh's house!
She's mistaken.
That's not good enough, Goddamit!
It isn't true. You have to believe me.
No, I don't have to believe you. The jury has to believe you and answers like he's lying or she's mistaken aren't going to convince them.
I don't use cocaine anymore. If she says she saw me doing it she's lying.
Why would she lie?
I don't know, Frank  but don't you think that's something we should find out?
I called you all weekend. Where were you?
I went out on the boat.
Alone?
Of course.
You were brilliant today.
It's only the beginning.
Can I see you later?
You can see me now.
Something wrong?
Paley could be a problem tomorrow.
I'm sure you'll be able to handle him.
I'm glad you have such confidence in me.
Don't worry about Paley. He can't touch me. No one can. I've thought it all out.
What does that mean? You've been thinking about the case? Or you thought everything out before you killed Marsh?
Sugar or honey?
Honey.
Rebecca  take these off.
Tonight we open new doors.
What are you going you doing?
Are you scared?
What's that for?
To celebrate how masterfully you destroyed Roston today.
Rebecca  we shattered a man's life in open court.
Fuck him! He tried to shatter mine.
He was only doing what he thought was right.
You're too weak, Frank. When you want something you have to do what ever it takes to get it. If something gets in your way you remove it.
You killed him  didn't you?
I knew you were thinking that. I could see it in your eyes today in the courtroom. You're wrong, Frank. I need you to believe that.
You don't need anybody.
I do need you. No matter what you think of me  I didn't do it.
I'm dropping the case.
No  you're not.
You can think whatever you want, Frank  but I didn't kill Andrew, and I'm not going to prison for something I didn't do.
You're a monster.
No  I'm a survivor.
Hello?
Frank  It's Rebecca. I need to see you right away. I've got the tape.
You killed him. You killed him  and I got you off.
That's crazy.
I've been thinking about that. I've decided to give it to you after I've collected the inheritance. You can take that one if you want  but there's another copy.
That wasn't the deal.
So, sue me. Things have changed. I think you should go home  and after you leave I see no reason for us to ever have contact again.
I'm not leaving without that tape.
Don't push me, Frank. I might lose my temper and send it out just for spite.
She's right, Paley. You've got to kill me. She doesn't have to  she's free  she can't be tried again  but you, you planned it with her. You supplied the Coke. You're an accessory to murder.
Shoot him.
No  he's lying.
How's it supposed to work Rebecca? You and Paley celebrate your victory. You get me over here and provoke a fight so he has to rush in and save you  but then he's given himself away as your accomplice  now he has to kill me. After that I figure she'll tell the Police that you broke in. That you were crazed because we humiliated you in court?
Don't listen to him. Can't you see he's trying to turn you against me.
Yes.
And your sexual tastes were something that you hid from Miss Lawson?
Yes.
And didn't Miss Lawson come home one day and find you in bed with your male lover?
Yes.
And she left shortly after that?
Would it be fair to say that when she did find out it was a shock to her?
Yes.
No further questions.
Hi, Joe.
Frank  what are you doing here?
I need to ask you a question. What made you get in touch with Joanne Braslow?
You know I can't talk about that.
I'm not asking for names or specifics. I just want to know what prompted you to make the call?
Sorry.
I worked for Mr. Marsh for six years. He was a good man  until she came along.
What changed?
He did. Look, I know you can lead a horse to water but you can't make him drink  but you hold a pail of water in front of an old horse for long enough  and well...
You don't really believe what the district attorney is saying about Miss Lawson, do you?
I don't know. It's incredible to think that anyone could be capable of doing that  but if anyone could it would be Rebecca.
I take it you don't like Miss Lawson very much?
I really don't know her that well. We would say hello to each other when I would come to the house, but that was about it.
If you don't know her that well what makes you think she's capable of murder?
Andrew was a kind and gentle man, but he was thirty years older than her. Where's the attraction to sleep with someone like that  to have the kind of sex they had.
How do you know what kind of sex they had?
I wasn't lookin' through the keyhole if that's what you're thinking. I'd come to house sometimes to pick up papers or speak to Andrew. I'd find their little toys all over the place.
Did Mr. Marsh use drugs?
No.
What about Miss Lawson?
Yes  cocaine.
How do you know that?
I was at the house one morning  I thought Miss Lawson was upstairs with Mr. Marsh. When I went into the guest bathroom she was standing in front of the mirror pouring this white powder out of a vial.
How do you know it was cocaine that Miss Lawson had in the bathroom?
What other kind of white powder do people keep in a vial?
Do you remember the date when you saw Miss Lawson in the bathroom?
Yes It was on a Friday. I remember because I was going to visit my sister for her birthday. It would be October twentyeighth.
Could you repeat the last part of what Mr. Marsh said to you the day before his death?
He said that if it kept up she was going to kill him. That his heart couldn't take it.
Didn't Mr. Marsh also tell you that Miss Lawson felt bored here and was thinking about going back to Chicago for awhile?
Yes  he mentioned it.
So, the woman he loved passionately was thinking about leaving. That must cause tremendous anxiety. Sleepless nights. Incredible stress.
I suppose.
So, isn't it possible that he was confiding in you about the pain he was feeling about losing what might be his last chance for love? That what he really was saying was that the uncertainty of her leaving was driving him crazy and if it didn't stop it was going to kill him. That if she did leave his heart couldn't take it.
I don't know. I'm not sure.
Well, think about it. Isn't it possible?
Yes. I suppose it's possible.
Who told you that?
He video taped you.
That bastard!
I thought he was a kind, gentle man?
Yes, I slept with him but that was a long time ago.
You're lying. Marsh was wearing a cast on the tape. It was right before he went to Chicago and met Miss Lawson. He dumped you for her, didn't he?
Yes.
It must have been horrible. Having to go there  seeing them together   knowing he was sleeping with her in the same bed he did with you.
I was jealous. Of course I was hurt. He switched me off like a little toy he was finished playing with. But I didn't kill him.
I'm a practical woman Mr. Dulaney. Killing Andrew wasn't in my best interest. As it is I'm out of a job and I'm not in his will.
Money isn't the only reason people commit murder, Miss Braslow.
I've tried it.
You've tried it? Isn't it true that you've been in and out of Rehab centers for the last four years?
I've been to a few  yes.
You don't like Miss Lawson much do you?
No.
You don't like her because you were involved with Mr. Marsh before she came along. Isn't that true?
Yes.
You resented the fact that she told you what to do in Mr. Marsh's house?
Yes.
And you resented that he cared for her in a way he once cared for you?
Yes.
And that Mr. Marsh paid less attention to you?
Yes.
and that he changed his will?
Yes.
In his previous will Mr. Marsh left you two hundred and fifty thousand dollars  then he cut you out. Why do you think he did that?
She talked him into it. She wanted everything.
Two hundred and fifty thousand dollars is a lot of money. That must have made you pretty angry?
Yes.
Yes.
Well  I'm a little confused. This is a charge receipt from Rosen's Drug Store where Mr. Marsh had an account. It's dated the day of the murder. Is this your signature?
Yes.
There's an item you picked up that's marked. Will you read it?
Dristan nasal spray.
Would you read for us the time of the purchase?
Three fifteen.
A.M  or P.M.?
P.M.
You see that's what bothers me. No other bottle of nasal spray was found in the house. The police looked. There was only the one bottle. But you say you didn't arrive until after Mr. Marsh was dead  yet we know he was using the nasal spray prior to his death. How do you think it got there?
I don't know.
Isn't it true that you stopped by the house after you left the drug store and dropped off the items you bought?
No.
Isn't it true that you put the cocaine in the bottle?
No! Why would I want to kill him?
Because you were jealous. Because he cut you out of the will. Because you have a cocaine habit to feed  because you know that if Rebecca Lawson is found guilty the new will is void  and there's a very good chance the old one would be honored.
You take what people say and make it ugly. You make others believe what you want them to. She should have been found guilty. She shouldn't have gotten off.
Then you would have gotten your money?
Yes.
You killed him  didn't you, Joanne?
What do you have in your purse?
What do you think I've got? A gun? Maybe I'm gonna kill you too. Maybe I'll blow your head off right now.
I'm gonna go to jail. I know they're gonna make it look like I did it. They gotta put it on someone.
Why'd you come here?
To show you this. It's a letter from that lawyer, Koehler. He wrote it to me the day after I saw him. He's the one who told me I could get the money if Miss Lawson went to jail.
You didn't know about it before that?
No.
Then why did you go see Mr. Koehler in the first place?
Because he called me.
Miss Sellers, do you know Dr. Alan Paley?
Yes.
Where did you meet him?
I'm a nurse. I used to work at Roseburg Memorial Hospital. Dr. Paley's on staff there.
What was the nature of your relationship with Dr. Paley.
We dated for about a month last year.
Then what happened?
I realized he wasn't serious. He was seeing other women  asking other nurses at the hospital out, so I ended it.
 And what did Dr. Paley do after you stopped seeing him?
He used to call me  tell me that I couldn't just walk out on him. He said that if I didn't come back he'd make my life miserable.
Did he make your life miserable?
Yes  he did.
How?
What did he say?
He laughed  and basically said he would decide when it was over.
Do you remember his exact words?
What happened next?
While I was seeing Dr. Paley I mentioned to him one night that someone was stealing drugs from the third floor dispensary. Three days after I spoke to him in his office he went to the Head Nurse and told her he had witnessed me stealing drugs.
What happened?
There was an inquiry. It was his word against mine. They believed him. I was fired.
Did you go to college, Mrs. Crawford?
No.
High school?
No.
I heard him say it.
Then  those are not your own words?
No.
What else did the District Attorney's Office tell you to say?
Dr. Wong  what type of medicine do you practice?
Oriental medicine.
And is Miss Lawson a patient of yours?
Yes. I've been seeing her for over a year.
Why does she come to you?
She suffers from severe menstrual cramps.
Did you ever prescribe any medication for her cramps?
Yes.
What did you prescribe for her?
Chinese peony root.
Would you describe for the court what Chinese peony root looks like?
It's a white powder that comes in a vial.
How do you instruct your patients to take it?
I tell them to pour an amount the size of a quarter into the their hand and mix it with water.
A previous witness stated that she saw Miss Lawson pouring a white powder into her hand on October twentyeighth. According to your records when did you prescribe the drug?
October twentyseventh.
One last question, Doctor. If someone didn't know better, would it be easy to mistake the peony root for cocaine?
Yes  quite easy.
Dr. Trammel, did you ever speak to Miss Lawson about Mr. Marsh's condition?
No.
Did Mr. Marsh ever tell you that he had spoken to Miss Lawson about his illness?
No.
Did Miss Lawson ever accompany Mr. Marsh inside during his examinations?
No.
Then you have no way of knowing what Mr. Marsh told Miss Lawson were the reasons for his visits?
No. No, I don't.
Dr. Paley, where were you the last time you saw Miss Lawson?
We had dinner at a restaurant.
Isn't it true that later that night you tried to force yourself on Miss Lawson in the parking lot?
No.
You didn't grab her and try to kiss her?
No.
If necessary I can bring in the valet parking attendant and two customers who witnessed the occurrence.
Well  as I remember it, we had an argument.
And the argument was about the fact that you wanted to be romantically involved and she did not.
Yes.
And after that didn't you continuously harass Miss Lawson?
No.
You'll be sorry?
I was angry.
You're still angry, aren't you? Isn't it true that your whole story is nothing more than a vindictive attempt on your behalf to get back at Miss Lawson?
No  she asked me about cocaine.
I suggest it never happened.
You can suggest anything you want. It happened.
No further questions.
I may have been infatuated with her   but I wouldn't perjure myself.
That's all Dr. Paley.
Don't you see what she's doing? She needs you to kill me. She's planned it that way from the start. That's why she phoned me tonight.
You called him?
I'm sure that every orgasm she had with me was faked.
That's enough.
I mean she only screwed me two or three times a night because she had to  I'm sure she didn't enjoy it.
Where did you meet Miss Lawson?
At a dinner party  about eight months ago.
Did you ever see her again after that?
Yes  several times.
What eventually happened to your relationship with Miss Lawson?
We stopped seeing each other.
Why?
Well  I realized that she wasn't interested in me. She was just trying to get information out of me.
What kind of information?
She said that she was working on a novel and she wanted to know what kinds of drugs would be harmful to someone with a bad heart.
Did you suggest any?
Yes  Insulin and others.
What did she say?
She said that those weren't any good  because their use would be detected and the police would know the victim had been poisoned. She wanted to know if there was a drug that would induce a heart attack but could also be used to enhance a sexual high.
 And what did you suggest?
Cocaine.
Mr. Roston, what was your relationship with Miss Lawson?
We were lovers.
How long were you together?
For about one year.
How would you describe your sex life with Miss Lawson?
Intense.
I know this is a very personal subject, but could you be a little more specific?
It was wild. She was constantly trying to get me more and more worked up  kinky things. I tried to satisfy her the best I could, but it was difficult in my condition.
What kind of condition are you referring to?
I had a bad heart.
What happened next?
I had bypass surgery.
And how are you now?
Fine. The doctors say if I keep taking care of myself I can live to be a very old man.
How did your relationship with Miss Lawson progress after the surgery?
It didn't.
Why not?
She left me.
Why did she say she was leaving?
She didn't. She just left.
Why do you think she left you?
Well  I think that after the operation she realized that...
When you say your sexual relations with Miss Lawson were intense what exactly do you mean?
It was like she was trying to push me as far as she could. She called it opening new doors.
Can you give the court an example?
It was like sex was a game to her. She got off on the control. She always used to tell me it had to be her way.
It's hard to resist a woman as beautiful as she is.
What would she do that made it hard to resist?
She's a woman who is very much aware of her own sexuality. Sometimes I felt she could read my mind. It was uncanny how she knew exactly what I wanted. A few nights before my heart surgery Rebecca woke me. She had handcuffed me to the bed.
She told me that tonight we were going to open new doors. I asked her to stop  to take off the handcuffs, but she wouldn't listen.
What did she say?
Mr. Roston I know this is difficult for you, but it's important you tell the court what she did.
She said she was going to fuck me like I've never been fucked before.
What did she do next, Mr. Roston?
She started touching herself and telling me how much she wanted me. She reached down and put me inside her. My doctor had warned me about exerting myself  but you really don't think of those things at a moment like that. You just think about how beautiful this woman is  how much you want her. How deeply you want to please her. At first it started off slowly  but the rhythm built and built. Every time I got close to an orgasm she would stop. Eventually I started to have trouble breathing. Rebecca just kept going  faster and faster. No matter what I said she wouldn't stop. I really thought for a moment I was going to die.
If you knew it was bad for you why did you do it?
I couldn't help myself. You get lost inside a women like her. It was like a drug. It was the best sex I ever had.
What happened after that?
I woke up the next morning and she was gone.
Did you change your will while you were with Miss Lawson?
Yes.
Who was your primary beneficiary?
She was.
Thank you. The State rests.
Doctor Trammel, when did you first diagnose that Mr. Marsh had heart disease?
About a year and half ago.
Did Mr. Marsh change his lifestyle after that?
Yes  he stopped smoking and drinking and exercised regularly.
He did everything he could to take care of his heart?
Yes.
Did Miss Lawson ever accompany Mr. Marsh to your office?
Yes.
Just one last question. What does the sign on your office door say?
Doctor Steven Trammel. Cardiologist.
Is it Marsh?
Yeah.
Who found him?
His Secretary. Joanne Braslow.
She was here?
No. She stopped by to pick up some papers.
Show me.
Miss Braslow  I'm District Attorney John Cardenas. You arrived at what time tonight?
A little after eleven.
Why did you come by?
I had some papers to pick up.
Do you know who Mr. Marsh was with?
I assume his girlfriend.
Her name?
Rebecca Lawson.
You wouldn't know her address, would you?
No  but I can get it for you.
Thank you.
How long were you Mr Marsh's personal secretary?
Six years.
Did you ever see Mr. Marsh use Cocaine?
No  never.
What about Miss Lawson?
Yes.
Tell the court about that, please.
I opened the bathroom door one day and saw Miss Lawson pouring Cocaine out of a vial.
Did you see Mr. Marsh the day before his death?
Yes.
How did he look?
Horrible. He was tired and pale.
Did you talk about Miss Lawson?
Yes.
What did Mr. Marsh say?
Miss Lawson, do you use cocaine?
I have.
Did you use it the night Marsh died?
No. I haven't done it in years.
Were you aware of Mr. Marsh's heart condition?
No.
Mr. Marsh's Cardiologist and his nurse have told us that you accompanied Mr. Marsh to their office on at least two occasions.
That's correct  but Andrew never told me he had a heart condition. He said he had a heart arrhythmia and it was nothing serious.
That's it. My client doesn't have to take this crap from you.
Sit down, Frank.
No. Miss Lawson came in here voluntarily to answer your questions. She doesn't have to sit here and be insulted. So, either you charge her now or we're leaving.
Lookin' to make the papers, John?
Marsh left her close to three million dollars in his will. That's motive. She admits to being there the night of his death. That's opportunity  and her fingerprints are on the nasal spray bottle.
You can't show intent.
Can you?
Take your pole out of the water, Frank. The fish ain't biting today.
You're bluffing. John, it's me, remember? I've known you since your name was Juan Carlos.
C'mon  think about it. If she was going to kill Marsh why leave the nasal spray bottle there for the police to find?
She planned this. She wanted us to find the nasal spray.
Why would she want that?
Because she's clever. Because she knows that even if we didn't find it we'd have suspicions as to why a man in Marsh's condition would use cocaine.
Suspicions maybe  but suspicions aren't enough for a conviction.
The M.E.'s report stated that Marsh's nasal membranes showed no sign of prior cocaine use. Without the nasal spray we would have still treated it as a poisoning. We would have looked for motive and the trail would have still led back to her.
I don't buy it and neither will a jury.
We're going all the way on this one, Frank. Tell your client she has until the prelim to cop a plea for murder two  fifteen to twenty five.
I'll tell her but she won't take it.
Then she's not as smart as I thought she was. You've seen her in the depositions. Tell me you don't have any doubts?
She's innocent.
Aren't they all?
Yeah. Well  we'll let the blindfolded lady with the scales decide that.
Your Honor, this is a tape from Miss Lawson's answering machine. I would like to play it now.
Objection. Your Honor, we don't know where this tape is from. Who made it  or under what circumstances it was made.
Your Honor, I fail to see what Mrs Crawford's educational background has to do with this case.
I was just about to make my point, Your Honor.
Objection, Your Honor. The fact that Mrs. Crawford heard Mr. Troxell reconstruct her sentence and decided to rephrase her words in a more intelligent manner for the court doesn't mean the incident never happened.
I'm just curious to see if Mr. Troxell reconstructed anything else.
Your Honor  please!
I've got work to do.
Hey  the bell's sounded. It's between rounds.
I didn't hear it.
What's happening to you, Frank? You're acting like you're on trial here. This has become personal to you.
Back off, John.
That's ridiculous.
I'm talking to you as a friend now. Don't ruin your life, your career for her. She'll spit you out when this is over.
You don't know what you're talking about.
Really? What does an attorney speak to his client about at her house until three o'clock in the morning?
You've been following me?
Her. It's an obvious move. I'm building a case against her, remember?
Your Honor, I don't see a Mr. Roston listed as a prosecution witness.
The State's investigation just uncovered Mr. Roston yesterday afternoon in Chicago.
Objection. The question calls for a conclusion on the part of the witness.
Your Honor, Mr. Roston lived with the defendant for many months. I feel that his opinion is valid in substantiating the character of the Miss Lawson.
The opinion of a scorned lover is hardly an objective view.
Objection!
I'll rephrase the question. Mr. Roston isn't it true you are bisexual?
Objection! Mr. Roston's sexual preferences are not at issue in this trial.
Your Honor, I'm trying to establish the sense of betrayal Miss Lawson felt when she discovered the man she lived with was a different person than she thought he was.
Objection! May I remind Mr. Dulaney that the person on trial here is Miss Lawson  not Dr. Paley.
Your Honor, I'm trying to establish a pattern in Dr. Paley's behavior with women.
Can I go?
You get his statement?
Your Honor, Mr. Roston is an exlover of Miss Lawson's.
Why didn't the State's investigation uncover Mr. Roston earlier?
He was away on an extended vacation and just returned two days ago.
Alright  I'm going to allow his testimony.
Objection sustained.
Did Miss Lawson ever give you any indication why she was leaving?
No questions.
You may call your next witness.
Objection, Your Honor.
Counsel approach the bench.
Mrs. Crawford, you were Mr. Marsh's maid for nine years?
Yes.
Did Miss Lawson and Mr. Marsh ever argue?
Like cats and dogs.
What did they argue about?
You name it  they argued about it. Mr. Marsh tried his best to keep her happy  but it seemed that no matter what he did it was never enough for her.
Did they argue the day before he died?
Well  he died on a Sunday and I have the weekends off  but they were ripping at each other with both barrels Friday afternoon.
What was the nature of the argument?
Sex.
Could you be more specific?
Did you ever see Mr. Marsh use cocaine?
No  never.
Your witness.
About three hours.
Cause?
Not sure. I'll have everything you need tomorrow.
Marsh wasn't alone. We found traces of sperm on the sheets. The toxicology report says there were high levels of cocaine in his blood.
What'd he die of?
The official cause of death was a cardiac arrest.
The official cause?
That's what my report will read.
But there's more?
What are you saying, Henry? That his girlfriend fucked him to death?
Yes.
What can we prove?
We know Marsh had a head cold. We found cocaine mixed with water in a nasal spray container on the nightstand. The coke would contract the nasal membrane the same as any decongestant, but for a much shorter time. He'd keep using more and more  never knowing what he was taking.
Any prints on the nasal spray?
Cocaine is the last thing a man in his condition would want.
Can we put Rebecca Lawson at the scene?
Doctor McCurdy, what was the cause of death?
A massive cardiac arrest.
What was Mr. Marsh's physical condition prior to his death?
Very poor. He was suffering from severe arterial disease.
Was the heart attack the result of natural causes?
No.
What induced it?
We found a high concentration of cocaine in his blood.
So, Mr. Marsh used cocaine?
I don't think so. The membrane in his nasal passage didn't show any sign of long time usage.
Then how did it get into his body?
We found a bottle of Dristan nasal spray on the nightstand. It was filled with water and cocaine. Mr. Marsh had a head cold at the time of his death. I believe he wasn't aware that he was ingesting cocaine.
Is this the bottle that was found on the nightstand?
Yes.
Your Honor, the State enters this evidence as exhibit A. Were any fingerprints found on the bottle?
Yes  those of Mr. Marsh and a thumb print of Miss Lawson's.
Dr. McCurdy, what would cocaine do to someone in Mr. Marsh's condition?
Increase his heart rate.
 And if he were in the midst of making love while under the influence of cocaine?
It would be an added stress to his heart.
What would be the effect if someone secretly administered cocaine to Mr. Marsh and then induced him to make love?
It would be the same as shooting a gun at him.
Thank you, Doctor McCurdy. Your witness.
Marsh's Cardiologist told me that after Marsh was diagnosed with heart disease he quit smoking, quit drinking and started exercising every day. Does that sound like a guy who'd start shoveling cocaine up his nose?
What did he say about Miss Lawson?
He can remember at least one occasion  and the receptionist can recall two times when she accompanied Marsh to the office.
So she knew about his heart?
Had to. I also interviewed three women who were in past relationships with Marsh. There's no evidence that he had anything but straight sex prior to meeting Miss Lawson.
What about the will?
That's the best part. She gets it all  everything.
I think I'm going to make your day.
How?
Yeah.
Then you can go.
I don't think that this is the time, or the place.
I just wanted to introduce myself and inform Miss Lawson that there will be an inquiry.
An inquiry into what?
For starters I'd like to know why she left the house and didn't report the death?
Because he wasn't dead when she left, and even if he was, not reporting a natural death in a timely fashion isn't a crime.
Did I say it was a natural death?
How you doin' Mister D?
Fine, Charlie. You familiar with the Marsh case?
Yeah  I hear they had 'em a real dog and pony show going on up there   I'll tell you, sometimes white people are a real puzzle to me. I mean, did this old guy really think he was gonna be able to keep up with a sweet little number like that?
It could've happened to anyone.
I'm sorry, man  but I ain't ever heard of no brother dying from gettin' too much pussy.
We have to find out who else would profit from Marsh's death  and who knew enough about his personal life to know that putting cocaine in the nasal spray would be fatal.
So  where do we start?
I want you to hit all the dealers in town. Give them a list of people close to Marsh and see if any of them use. Then I want you to check out a Doctor Alan Paley. He lives up in Roseburg.
Before you ask there's nothing new on the coke.
You've got to get me something I can use, Charlie.
I'm trying.
I've been waiting for you to get back.
You got something on the coke?
No  but I got something.
I would have missed it  but the phone rang and I let it play while I talked. It looks like blank tape  but it isn't. It's been erased without any input signal coming in.
So, what good is it to us if it's been erased?
It's very good  because when the D.A's office saw it they assumed it was the end of the tape, otherwise they would have buried it.
Why?
Because it hasn't all been erased.
I'm sorry to barge in  but I figured after that bombshell that got laid on you today you could use some good news?
You got something on the Coke?
Charlie  are you going to make a point soon?
Right now. Guess who's been buying Coke from him for the last five and half years?
Joanne Braslow is getting more and more interesting. I followed her today to an attorney's office. Joseph Koehler.
Joe Koehler. I know him. He's an estate attorney  and he's very expensive.
What would Joanne Braslow need with an estate attorney? She wasn't even mentioned in Marsh's will.
Here it is! According to the old will Joanne Braslow was to inherit two hundred and fifty thousand dollars.
What good does that do  it's the old will?
Under the law a person cannot profit from their own wrong doing. Since Rebecca Lawson is the sole beneficiary of the new will, if she is found guilty the will is void and Joanne Braslow could make a very good case to have the old will reinstated.
She kills the old man and makes it look like Miss Lawson did it. Pretty slick.
Take some time off.
You think the D.A.'s gonna file on Joanne?
I don't know.
You did a good job, Charlie.
Thanks, Mister D.
Who is speaking?
Mathieu. Colonel Mathieu.
We don't trust you, colonel. Come forward, show yourself.
Okay. But we want your promise for a fair trial in writing. Give us a written statement, Mathieu, and then we'll surrender.
How can I give you this statement?
We'll lower a basket from the window ...
Okay, I'll make the statement in writing ...
Are you ready, colonel?
Yes ... But let me first see you.
Why?
For many months, I've had your photo on my desk together with a dozen or so reports on you ... And naturally, I am under the illusion that I know you somewhat. You never seemed the type, Kader, inclined to performing useless actions.
You seem to be very satisfied to have taken me alive ...
Of course I am.
That proves that I was wrong. Evidently I credited you with an advantage greater than I should have.
No. Let's just say that you've given me the satisfaction to have guessed correctly. But from the technical point of view, it isn't possible to speak of advantages. By now the game is over. The NLF has been defeated.
What is she saying?
She says that Ali is still in the Casbah.
Mathieu! Mathieu, a name ...
A name?
Yes, a name for the operation.
And so the tapeworm no longer has a head. Are you satisfied, Mathieu? In Algiers everything should be over.
Yes, I believe there won't be any more talk of the NLF for some time.
Let's hope forever.
Bah, for that matter, Algeria isn't the only country in the world ...
Why, yes, of course ... But for the moment, let's be satisfied with Algiers! In the mountains our work is always easier.
Where were we?
Intersection, between Consular Street and General Laquiere Avenue ...
Good, thank you, Corbiere... . See you tomorrow.
Good evening, sir.
Tell me ... Where is this rue de Thbes?
Rue de Thbes? In the Upper Casbah, I think ...
All right. See you tomorrow, Corbiere.
Good evening, sir.
Good evening ... Can we pass?
It's too late. No one is allowed to enter the Casbah at this hour. It's impossible.
But it's not even midnight yet!
It's ten minutes past midnight. Curfew begins at midnight.
Please, we just want to take a short ride. A friend of mine has never seen the Casbah.
I'm sorry. Tomorrow. Tonight is out of the question.
Be careful now. Unless you know how it works, it's better if you sit on the plank and move forward like this ...
Let's try ...
It's good nobody is following us ...
It's a question of habit ...
What do you think of the strike, Ali?
I think it'll be a success ...
Yes, I think so too ... It's been organized well ... But what will the French do?
It's clear. They'll do everything possible to make it fail.
No, they'll do even more. We've given them the opportunity to do a lot more ... Do you understand what I mean? Starting tomorrow, they won't be groping in the dark any more; every shop and every worker who strikes will be a known enemy, a selfconfessed criminal ... And they will be able to pass to the offensive. Have you thought of this?
No ...
But Kader told me that you weren't in favor of the strike.
No, and neither were my men.
Why?
Because they told us that we mustn't use weapons, now, when the time is right.
That's true ... Wars aren't won with terrorism, neither wars nor revolutions. Terrorism is a beginning but afterward, all the people must act ... This is the reason for the strike, and its necessity: to mobilize all Algerians, count them and measure their strength ...
To show them to the UN, right?
Yes ... yes. The problem also involves the UN. I don't know what it's worth, but this way, we'll give the UN the possibility of evaluating our strength.
Go away!
Men have two faces: one that laughs and one that cries ...
Can you read?
Sure ...
Read it.
Here?
Where's Kader?
With the others. They are trying to stop the people.
Go away.
With an unloaded pistol?
I'll explain.
Let's suppose you were a spy. In prison, when the NLF contacts you, you pretend to support the revolution, and then the French help you to escape ...
Sure. By shooting at me.
Even that could be a trick. You escape, then show up at the address which the brothers in prison gave to you, and so you are able to contact me ...
I don't even know your name yet ...
My name is Kader, Ali ... Saari Kader ... In other words, in order to join the organization, you had to undergo a test. I could have told you to murder the barman, but he's an Algerian ... and the police would let you kill him, even though he is one of theirs. By obeying such an order, you still could have been a double agent. And that's why I told you to kill the French policeman: because the French wouldn't have let you do it. If you were with the police you wouldn't have done it.
But I haven't shot him.
You weren't able to. But what's important is that you tried.
What's important for me is that you let me risk my life for nothing.
C'mon ... you're exaggerating. The orders were to shoot him in the back.
I don't do that kind of thing.
Then don't complain.
You still haven't told me why you didn't let me kill him.
Because we aren't ready yet for the French. Before attacking, we must have safe places from which to depart and find refuge. Of course, there is the Casbah. But even the Casbah isn't safe yet. There are too many drunks, pushers, whores, addicts, spies ... people who talk too much ... people who are ready to sell themselves, undecided people. We must either convince them or eliminate them. We must think of ourselves first. We must clean out the Casbah first. Only then will we be able to deal with the French. Do you understand, Ali?
And how many are we?
Not enough.
Why? Isn't he sleeping here?
No, it's better if he doesn't. The house is filled with new people.
It's better to split up, to increase our chances. We must change hiding places, and change them continually ... In the meantime, we must make new contacts, replace our arrested brothers, reorganize our sections
Yes, but we must also show them that we still exist.
Of course. As soon as possible.
No, immediately. The people are demoralized. Leave this to me ...
No. Not you, or any one of us. As long as we are free, the NLF continues to exist in the Casbah. If they manage to take us too, there won't be anything left ... And from nothing comes nothing ...
You afraid of these ...?
Don't move, Hacene.
Why are you afraid? We've always been friends. One might even say that I brought you up ... Isn't it true, Ali?
It's true.
What's happened to you?
The NLF has condemned you to death.
How much are they paying you?
They're not paying me anything. They've already warned you twice; this is the last warning. Decide.
What ... What must I decide?
You've got to change occupations, Hacene. Right away!
Go ahead! C'mon ... Repeat everything from the beginning, and then we'll let you go. Name ...
Sid Ahmed.
Second name.
Sail.
Which "district" do you belong to?
Second district ...
Second district ... Explain better ...
Second district, Casbah, West Algiers.
What "group"?
Third group.
Third group. What's your assignment?
Uh ... responsible for the sixth section.
It is an inevitable stage in revolutionary war; from terrorism, one passes to insurrection ... as from open guerrilla warfare one passes to real war, the latter being the determining factor ...
Dien Bien Phu?
Exactly.
In Indochina, <U>they</U> won.
And here?
It depends on you.
Excuse me, colonel. I have the impression that perhaps due to excessive prudence ... my colleagues continue to ask the same allusive questions, to which you can only respond in an allusive manner. I think it would be better to call things by their right names; if one means torture, then one should call it torture.
I understand. What's your question?
The questions have already been asked. I would only like some precise answers, that's all ...
Let's try to be precise then. The word "torture" does not appear in our orders. We have always spoken of interrogation as the only valid method in a police operation directed against unknown enemies. As for the NLF, they request that their members, in the event of capture, should maintain silence for twentyfour hours, and then, they may talk. Thus, the organization has already had the time necessary to render useless any information furnished ... What type of interrogation should we choose? ... the one the courts use for a crime of homicide which drags on for months?
The law is often inconvenient, colonel ...
And those who explode bombs in public places, do they perhaps respect the law? When you asked that question to Ben M'Hidi, remember what he said? No, gentlemen, believe me, it is a vicious circle. And we could discuss the problem for hours without reaching any conclusions. Because the problem does not lie here. The problem is: the NLF wants us to leave Algeria and we want to remain. Now, it seems to me that, despite varying shades of opinion, you all agree that we must remain. When the rebellion first began, there were not even shades of opinion. All the newspapers, even the leftwing ones wanted the rebellion suppressed. And we were sent here for this very reason. And we are neither madmen nor sadists, gentlemen. Those who call us fascists today, forget the contribution that many of us made to the Resistance. Those who call us Nazis, do not know that among us there are survivors of Dachau and Buchenwald. We are soldiers and our only duty is to win. Therefore, to be precise, I would now like to ask you a question: Should France remain in Algeria? If you answer "yes," then you must accept all the necessary consequences.
Look around. I've put everything at your disposal. Go take a look with your own eyes.
The strike is a success; but ...
No. It has failed in its objective.
But the NLF has always spoken of a strike as a demonstration ...
And you believe the NLF?
They seemed to be plausible this time. A general strike is a good argument for the UN.
The UN is far away, dear sir. It is easier to make oneself heard with bombs. If I were in their place, I would use bombs.
Colonel Mathieu ... Much has been said lately not only of the successes obtained by the paratroopers, but also of the methods that they have employed ... Can you tell us something about this?
The successes obtained are the results of those methods. One presupposes the other and vice versa.
Nice weed, huh?
Fuck yeah. I never seen nothing like it. I'm fucking wasted.
No shit, Kevin?
That's right.
Smith. Hampshire....
Right. And Holyoke. There are a hundred thousand rich kids with their parents' money to spend, but there's never anything available. Nothing good, anyway. I'm paying four hundred dollars for shit.
Twenty, forty, sixty, eighty, nine. Twenty, forty, sixty, eighty, a thousand. It's all there. Wow. A hundred and twentyeight thousand dollars.
Jesus Christ, I'm getting a boner just looking at it.
What's the matter, George? Something wrong? You look like you just fucked your mother.
Cheer up, man. Half this money is ours. We're fucking rich.
This is bullshit, George. We're never going to find anything down there.
You know, he's got a point. We're fucking Americans. We stick out like sore thumbs.
I can't believe we're stealing a plane.
Don't be such a pussy.
Well, I'll tell you. I was walking down the beach, minding my business, when who did I see but this fucking guy. I didn't know you guys were living in California.
Yeah, but what are you doing out here?
I'm on vacation. On my way back to school.
This calls for a joint. You want to do the honors?
No, man. I'm too fucked up.
Right on.
Gd, I'm stoned. I'm stoned. I'm really...
Stoned?
I wish there was shit like this back home.
Yeah?
Shit, yeah. Do you know how much money I could make if I had this stuff back east?
Yeah?
When there's something to move, it's too easy not to. Do you know how many colleges are in a twenty mile radius? U. Mass, Amherst, B.U....
It's not enough.
What?
So?
So, we need to get to the source.
Okay. So we need a source. Where do we start?
Who speaks Spanish?
Not that far, only halfway. You sure you know what you're doing?
Relax. I've flown with my old man a million times. And he always told me, the taking off part is easy, it's the landing you've got to worry about.
Holy shit, Dulli!
Georgie, oh man, hold the mayo!
That was it. Seeing Dulli after fourteen years sealed the deal for me. The rest was just details. My end was roughly fivehundred thousand. Kristina and I could have a good life for five hundred grand. Start over somewhere. One final score. That's all I needed.
Are we good?
Are we good? Yeah, we're good. We're beautiful. We're perfect. This is A grade, onehundred percent pure Colombian cocaine, Ladies and Gentlemen. Disco shit. Pure as the driven snow. Good riddance.
Ramon tells me you are looking for some mota.
Yes, I am.
For instance, something like this?
Very nice. I'll take it.
Ha ha ha. You are funny. Really, how much will you be needing?
All of it. As much as you've got. A couples thousand pounds. I'll be back in a week with a plane.
Listen, Americano, it is very nice to meet you, but maybe we are going too fast. You take a little and then come back.
I don't need a little. I need a lot.
Marijuana is illegal in my country, and I believe in yours, as well. We must be careful.
What if I brought you, let's say, fifty thousand dollars? Would that eliminate some of your concerns?
Amigo, you bring me fiftythousand dollars, and I have no more concerns.
Good to see you, Jorge. You are a man of your word.
Actually, I've got some news. That fifty thousand I promised you, I couldn't get it.
It's a fourman operation. Two on the ground. Two in the air.
Who's the copilot?
You're looking at him. We provide the plane, transportation cost, U.S. landing spot, and take it to wherever you want it to go. You provide the pick up point in South America, and are responsible for payment. You assume all the bust risks. We take sixtyfive percent of all transportation fees, ten percent of the gross, plus our expenses. This is not a negotiation, so if this is okay with you, we can talk further. If not, we can forget we had this conversation.
Sounds fine. I'll need to meet everybody.
They're over at the booth.
You saved my life, Dulli. You'll never fucking know. All you guys. Everyone just got a raise. Instead of ten percent, you get fifteen.
Jesus, George, fifteen percent. That's an extra twohundred large.
I don't give a shit. Split it up. Have a great life. I'm done. I'm out. Starting over. Cheers.
Mr. Jung, do you know Diego Delgado?
Yes, I do.
Do you see him here in the courtroom?
Yes, he's sitting right there at the end of the table.
Let the record state the witness has identified, Diego Delgado.
Mr. Jung, can you describe the circumstances of how you began talking about cocaine with Mr. Delgado?
Shortly after I arrived at Danbury Federal Correctional Institute I related to Diego that the crime I was in for was smuggling marijuana. Diego told me he had high level connections in Colombia and they needed to find someone to help them transport cocaine into America...
But I have a visitor.
Not today, George. Time to go back.
But I want to put her name on the list for tomorrow. My daughter.
Okay, George.
Because she's visiting me.
We'll do that tomorrow, okay? It's lockdown time.
Everything's gonna be okay, sweetheart. Don't be upset.
What's happening to us?
I don't know.
Are we gonna split up?
No, never. Don't even think about that, it's impossible. I love your mother. And you are my heart. Could I live without my heart? Could I?
What are you doing here?
Nothing. I just wanted you to know I was out. I just wanted to see you.
Well, here I am. See?
How are you doing?
George, you just can't show up, tell me you love me, and have everything be okay.
Dad.
What?
You can call me Dad if you want.
I don't want, alright? It's not funny. I'm really pissed off, George. You blew it, now leave me alone.
Kristina, c'mon, I'm sorry. I'm going to make this right. I've got a few things going on...
What do you want from me?
Just to walk with you. I want to be your dad again.
Do what you want, it's a free country.
Let me ask you something. If you could go anywhere in the world, anywhere, where would you want to go?
You mean, like a trip?
Yeah, sure, whatever.
California? You can go anywhere in the world. India. Tibet. Australia. Paris. And you choose California?
Yeah.
What is it? A Disneyland thing?
No. I just kind of like the sound of it.
California, huh?
California.
Bye, Dad. See you in the morning, okay?
I'll be here.
I'm thinking about getting out of town this week. You want to come with me?
Where are you going?
I don't know. Maybe California.
You swear?
Yeah. Go out there, check it out, see what it's like. I've got some stuff to do this week, but I'm thinking maybe Thursday. Thursday after school.
You know I can't. Mom will never let me go.
You let me take care of your mother. You just pack your bags.
But I've got school.
There's schools in California.
You swear?
That's right. Three o'clock. Thursday. At your mother's. You and me. It's a date.
I don't believe you.
I swear. On my life.
Swear on my life.
I swear on your life.
I'm sorry, baby. I'm so sorry.
It's alright, Dad.
I didn't mean to...
I know, Dad. I know...
I fucked up.
Shhhh.
I love you. I love you so much. You've got to know that. You've got to know.
I know, Dad. I love you too.
After everything. After everything, the only thing left out of my whole life is you.
Hello.
Hello.
Do I know you?
I don't think so.
Why are you smiling?
Why are you smiling?
I don't know. My name is George.
I know who you are, El Americano. Mister George.
What is your name?
You better know what you're doing, George. You're playing with fire.
I like fire.
Jesus Christ.
Oh, don't be such a fucking hypocrite. I quit smoking, didn't I?
Put that shit away, they're here.
George. Oh, Jesus Christ, George. Look at you.
Shhh, honey, never mind. It's alright. It's over. I quit the business. I'm out.
Pablo said no?
Pablo said no. It's all over. And I'm never going back. I have you. We have the baby. And there's nothing else. It's just the family now. Shhh. Sleep now.
Look, Mirtha. She's walking.
She did that before.
No. These are her first steps. Watch her.
Yeah. I know. She did that before.
But this is...
I said, I've seen it before.
Alright.
Can you lift the furnace. I need money.
Where are you going?
Out.
No, that's alright.
Oh fucking relax. Let your hair down for once. It's your fucking birthday, for Chrissakes. You're such a fucking pussy. I swear to Gd, I married this big time drug dealer and wound up with the maid.
What are we going to do?! What are we going to use for money?!
Please, Mirtha. I'll start working for Augusto. I'll talk to him tonight. I'll do something.
Don't touch me. Tell me. Just answer the question. What do I spend? What? How will we live?
Not in front of the kid.
Don't give me that shit. You just better do something.
There's a fucking cop behind us, Mirtha. Be cool, will ya.
Fuck you, George, just fucking drive.
Hey, why don't you just put a "I'm doing cocaine" sign on the car. What is your fucking problem?
My problem? We're broke, that's my fucking problem. And you're a fucking spy.
What?
That's right. Always spying, always judging. Everyone's laughing at you, you fucking pussy. You let Diego fuck you in the ass. Maybe you are a fucking faggot. You must be fucking Diego because you're not fucking me.
You should have taken better care of me, you know? You've been away a long time. Four years. Say something.
What do you want me to say? I'm in prison. You should know. You put me here.
Fuck you, George. I knew you'd say something like that. Always thinking about yourself.
What do you want?
You knew I was seeing Kristina, right?
Yeah. She told me. You walk her to school.
Yeah, so I've been thinking. I love her, y'know? I kind of want to have her. I've been away for so long. Make up for the missed time, you know?
I haven't seen one dollar from you. You haven't paid me one cent in child support, alimony.
Yeah, well. I'm working on that. I've got something going.
Yeah? I better see some money out of it.
Yeah, you will. Of course.
Hey, look. You start paying, who knows what will happen. You're a good father, George. I always gave you that. But you've got to talk to her.
Yeah.
She's getting big. Getting her own ideas.
I know. Well, that's all I really wanted to say. So, okay, then.
Hey, George. You okay?
Yeah. I'm fine. I'm good.
Mirtha, what's going on? Everything okay with Kristina?
Kristina's fine.
Is she here? Is she coming?
Is she here? George, Kristina hates you. You fucked her over one too many times. And I'm not here to socialize. Did you hear about Diego?
Yeah.
Well, I got a call from Pablo. He said this thing with Diego is a disaster. He's giving up lab locations, names, bank accounts, he was very pissed off. Pablo said to take him down. His exact words were "Fuck Diego."
He wants me to testify? Is that what he's asking me to do?
George, he wasn't asking.
Mirtha, how are you doing?
Better than you.
Figured it out.
Figured what out?
You know how we were wondering what we were going to do for money? Being how we don't want to get jobs and whatnot? Well, check this out.
It's oregano. You got ripped off, pal. What are you gonna do with all this?
We sell it. I got it all figured out. We make three finger lids and sell them on the beach. We move all of it. We've made ourselves a hundred bucks. Or a lot of weed for our head. What do you think? Not bad, huh? I got the baggies and everything.
George.
Tuna.
Figured it out.
Figured what out?
You know how we were wondering what we were going to do for money? Being how we don't want to get jobs and whatnot? Well, check this out.
It's oregano. You got ripped off, pal. What are you gonna do with all this?
We sell it. I got it all figured out. We make three finger lids and sell them on the beach. We move all of it. We've made ourselves a hundred bucks. Or a lot of weed for our head. What do you think? Not bad, huh? I got the baggies and everything.
George.
Tuna.
Look what the cat dragged in.
Holy shit, Dulli. What the hell are you doing here?
What the fuck are you talking about, man?
The setup is wrong. We're doing all the legwork, and at the end of the day, we're still paying retail. We're getting middled.
Source? What about Derek?
He's getting middled, too. And Derek's our partner. What's good for us is good for him.
How are you doing, George?
What do you guys want?
You hear about your old friend, Diego?
What about him?
What the fuck? Is he going to walk?
He's going down, George. It's election year. We're not making any deals.
Don't be stupid, George. We've got him. We've got him dead to rights. But like I said, this is top priority so we're handing out free passes on this one. And the first one's got your name on it. Cut your sentence in half, maybe more.
No thanks, fellas. You've got the wrong fucking guy. I'm not a rat.
There's something out there for me, Dad. Something different. Something free form, you know? Something for me, and college just isn't it.
That's too bad. You would have been the first one in the family.
I know.
Alright. You want me to get your old job back? Because I could, you know, I could put in that word.
No, Dad. I don't want to...I mean, I just don't want...
What are you going to do?
I'm going to California.
There's something out there for me, Dad. Something different. Something free form, you know? Something for me, and college just isn't it.
That's too bad. You would have been the first one in the family.
I know.
Alright. You want me to get your old job back? Because I could, you know, I could put in that word.
No, Dad. I don't want to...I mean, I just don't want...
What are you going to do?
I'm going to California.
May the wind always be at your back and the sun always upon your face...
...and the winds of destiny carry you aloft...
Just low.
You loved her, didn't you? You really loved her.
Yeah, Dad. I really did. What am I gonna do?
Tough spot.
You mad at me?
Not mad.
Yeah, you are. I can tell by the way you look at me.
I just don't know what you're thinking. I don't understand your choices. You know, the police are looking for you.
I know. I'm great at what I do, Dad. I mean, I'm really great.
Let me tell you something, son. You would have been great at anything.
So, business is going good. I've got this import/export thing going on in Miami that's been very profitable. With my investments...
Don't bullshit me, George. I don't see you very much, I don't want to waste the time.
You're like your mother. You love money.
Dad.
No, it's good. You have a family. It's good if it makes you happy. It's nice to have nice things. Are you happy, son?
Yeah, Dad. I'm happy right now.
Hi.
I heard. Ermine, your son is here.
She's angry. It's all over the news.
Yeah. Listen. I'm going to be going away for awhile.
You're not going to trial?
No.
Good.
Give this to Mom, will you?
Money. You and your mother. All the time chasing it. I never understood it.
Give it to her, Dad. It'll make her happy.
Yeah, I know. This is it, isn't it?
Tell Mom, you know...
I'll tell her.
And that FBI agent, Trout? When he had to get on his knees to put my boots on? You said...
That's where you belong...
...you sonofabitch. Putting on George's boots.
That was a good one, Dad. That was really something. Remember that?
I guess I kind of lost sight of things. "May the wind always be at your back and the sun always upon your face, and the winds of destiny carry you aloft to dance with the stars." Love, George.
That was a beautiful message.
I meant every word of it.
Did you know I died two weeks after you sent me that tape?
So, this is the man who takes fifty kilos and makes them disappear in one day?
Actually, it was three.
The man who gives us the airplanes. The man from America. The mafia. Chicago. Boom boom. Hollywood. You are going to open for us the gates of Hollywood, George?
It would be my pleasure.
Good. Very good. Welcome, my friend. Welcome to my country.
The man in the garden. He was full of courage.
Un sapo?
Un rata  no good. But he could have run, fled the country. Gone to the policia. But then his wife, his children, his parents, his friends, many people would die.
Yes.
But, never mind. I am thinking we can do much together. This problem with Diego, the stolen car, the jail, is very silly business. To release him from the carcel, it causes me much inconvenience. The fifty kilos could have been a big problem. And I don't like problems.
With all respect, Padrino. Diego is my partner. I do not do business without him.
I like you, George. You are loyal. That is good. That is rare. Maybe crazy. Yes. I can tell already. You are like me. I look at you and I see myself. It's in the eyes, no, George?
Yes, it is.
So, you are wanting to sell the cocaine for me in your country, George?
Yes, sir. As much as you can give me.
As much as I can give you? Ha ha. Very good. I like that. Come, George. Let us drive. We have much to talk about.
I like to come up here. To make the decisions. To be one with nature.
It's beautiful.
People tell me that I am crazy. That my business will never work in your country. What do you think, George?
What do I think? I don't want my answer to be influenced by what I want, so I'm going to have to say I don't know.
Yes. I do not know, either. What do you want, George?
I want money.
Yes. Money. Which is what, George?
Freedom.
Power?
Yeah, maybe.
Family.
Sure.
Beautiful girls?
Keep them coming.
Keep them coming? Ah, yes. Ha ha. You are right. But money.
Money.
And Diego?
Diego is my brother.
George, you look terrible.
Yeah, well...
Diego?
Yeah.
Please. Sit down. We'll drink some scotch.
I didn't come here to drink scotch.
I see. I'm sorry about this, George. I'm not happy about this situation. It's bad. You now know who your Brutus is.
You know why I'm here. You know what I have to do. I came here for permission. Out of respect, Pablo. This is bullshit, he's making me look like a punk.
It is very difficult. Diego makes me a lot of money. If Diego goes so does the money. You were an excellent teacher, George. When the student has learned well, the teacher is no longer necessary. We must remember we have wives, friends, familia. Even familia that has not been born. But sometimes, we must forget as well. I am like you. I must teach the lesson. We want to teach the lesson. But we cannot. We must remember that life is the teacher.
You're saying life will take care of Diego?
Life will take care of everybody. Diego, me, you. It is the teacher.
I get it. I'm really pissed, Pablo. You know the DEA knows about Norman's Cay. For Chrissakes, Diego worships Adolf Hitler and John Lennon, that's fucked up!
I'm sorry, George.
Yeah, well, what are you gonna do? You and me, Pablo? Are we good?
Of course, George. We are beautiful. We are brothers. Real brothers. Not like Diego. We started this, George.
I just can't get over the size of that ring. I just love it. Fred, look at it. Tell me you don't love that ring.
I'm just happy that George has found someone he cares for.
Yes. Of course. But, I'm talking about that ring. It's something else. Let me tell you.
Layaway shmayaway.
That's right. Layaway. Something you wouldn't know anything about, you cheapskate.
Who's the cheapskate?
You, you big old tightwad. He still has his communion money. Tell him, George. Tell your father about layaway.
Yeah. Nice.
Look at this credenza. If you don't mind me asking, how much is something like that? It's got to cost a fortune.
Well, you know. It's um...
Oh, shut up, Fred. Shut your big fat mouth. You don't buy it all at once. It's called layaway.
Yeah, layaway.
The boy is happy, Fred. Don't be such a killjoy.
Surprised to see me?
Take your boots off. You're tan.
Mexico.
Yeah. We heard all about it. I want you to know I'm deeply sorry about your girlfriend.
Barbara.
Yes, Barbara. She was very pretty.
Thank you. Have you been getting the money I sent you?
You mean the drug money? Yes, I got it.
Gd, son.
Okay, Mom. It's okay. Where's Dad?
It's a family heirloom.
I've seen those in magazines. They're not cheap.
Mirtha comes from a very wealthy family.
Oh, I see.
Tell him I don't want to see him. Tell him he's not welcome here.
Mom.
He's in tachycardia. George, your heart is racing. Have you been using drugs?
Coke.
Cocaine? How much?
I don't know. Maybe eighteen grams.
In how long? A week?
Today.
Oh, Jesus, Get me a 12lead e.k.g. and start an i.v. stat! This man is having a heart attack.
If you don't mind me asking, what is the reason you are in this place?
What?
Your offense? Why are you here?
I don't want to talk about it.
Intriguing. I see. Would you like to know my crime?
Not really, no.
No?
I don't like a lot of conversation, Diego.
Me, too. Too much blah, blah, blah, blah is no good. But we are roommates, okay? And we must talk to each other. I am arrested for stealing cars. For the grand theft auto. Okay? So, now it is your turn. Now you will tell me, okay? You will tell me why you are here?
Oh, come on, George. If we are to be friends, we must trust each other.
Murder.
Ah, yes. The murder.
What do you got there, Diego?
Nothing. Just a little project.
What kind of project?
Never mind. Not for you to worry.
I thought you said we were roommates. That we should talk about everything.
You have your intrigues. I have mine. This is a happy day for me, George. Nine months from today, I will be in Medellin sipping champagne. In nine months, I am free. How much time do you have?
Twentysix months.
Twentysix months? For murder? I must be your lawyer.
I've got to get out of here, Diego.
Only two ways I know to leave here early. One is to escape.
What's the other one?
I never believed you were a murderer. I knew. I knew you are a magico. I have seen it in you. It's in your spirit.
I'm tired, Diego. Go to bed.
You like to make the boundaries disappear. It's not only the money, is it, George? The adventure is part of the victory. It's the thrill, ah?
Good night.
In my country, I am a magico. A man with a dream. A man on the rise. To take nothing and make it something, okay? I have failed my dream, but I will accomplish. That is why I am in your country. Yes, I lose my freedom. But they do not take my dream. Do you have a dream, George?
I would if I could get some sleep.
Yes, you have a dream. And maybe you accomplish your dream. But yet you failed. Why?
Because I got caught.
No, my brother.
Because they caught me?
You failed because you had the wrong dream.
George? What do you know about cocaine?
I don't know, Diego. I've got a good thing going already. Everybody smokes pot. It's easy. Cocaine is a rich man's drug. It's too expensive.
No, no. That is where you are wrong. For us, it is cheap. In Medellin, we buy for sixthousand dollars a kilo. IN Miami, we sell for sixty.
That's over fiftythousand dollars profit per kilo.
And that's wholesale. Cut it a few times and retail, you're looking at two, threehundred thousand.
Oh my Gd.
Yes. And a kilo of coca is smaller than a kilo of your precious marijuana. Everything is the same, George, except instead of thousands, you are making millions.
Jesus Christ. Jesus fucking Christ.
Now do you see what I am saying?
Getting it here is no problem. Trust me. I'll fly it in myself if I have to. What about supply? How much can we get?
Don't worry. We will talk of everything. We have the time. You arrive here with a Bachelor of Marijuana, but you will leave with a Doctorate of Cocaine.
What type of planes do you have?
Four passenger, single engine Cessna.
How many kilos can we fit in these planes?
I don't know. A hundred, hundred and fifty. How many miles is it from Colombia to Miami?
Fifteen hundred. We'll have to stop somewhere to refuel.
We'll refuel in the Bahamas. I know someone there.
Great. I love the Bahamas.
Diego Delgado, please?
Allo?
Diego? It's George.
George, hallo! Today is the day, ah? Are you out?
Yeah, I'm out.
Congratulations, brother. I've been waiting for you.
How are we doing?
Perfect, George. Perfect. Everything is fine down here. Everything is all set up.
Do we need a plane? How does this work? When do I see you?
Slow down, George. Slow down.
You need to come down here, everybody meets everybody. Ho ho ho. Ha ha ha. We do one for good faith and then we talk about airplanes.
I can't go anywhere, Diego. I'm on parole. I can't leave the state.
But you must. It's the only way.
I just got released five minutes ago.
George, are we gonna do this or not?
Good to see you, Diego.
Yes. Look around you. The sun. The water. The women. It's better than Danbury, no? Come on. I have some friends I would like you to meet.
Fifteen kilos. Seven and a half in each suitcase. You receive a hundred thousand dollars upon delivery.
Okay.
Please, continue.
We make the pickup, refuel once more in the Bahamas, and fly back on Sunday with the mom and pop traffic.
What's the matter, George?
What's the matter? We're moving three hundred fucking kilos and we're making dogshit.
A million dollars for our first run is not bad, George.
It is bad. It's chump change. We might as well be hauling suitcases across the border. We're getting screwed.
I know.
And what happens when these guys stop paying? Sooner or later, these guys are going to cut us out. Then where are we?
That's my George, always thinking.
This is only part of the business, George. A very small part. Don't worry, there is so much more to do. Which reminds me, I need a favor from you. I must go to Colombia.
What is it, George? Because I have to get home. I've got a parole officer waiting for me.
I need you to go to Miami.
George.
Jesus Christ, Diego, where are you? It's been eleven days and these guys want their fucking money.
Bad news, George. I'm in Colombia.
Well, you better get here fast. I'm sitting on...
Jesus Christ, George, I don't see you in two years, and you show up at my door with a hundred and ten pounds of cocaine?
Just sell it, Derek.
Thirtysix hours. I can't believe it. Everything is gone in thirtysix hours.
I think it's fair to say you underestimated the market there, Derek.
Touche.
But to the victor belong the spoils.
George, good to see you, my brother.
What the fuck is going on? When did you get out of jail?
Pablo used his influence. Now, George, watch what you say. Everybody hears everything. A lot of things get said and done that, well, let's just say this isn't America. Life is cheap here, you know? No offense, but you know what I'm saying?
Yeah. Keep my mouth shut and let you do the talking.
Right. Now who is the person in California? The connection?
Just a friend.
Who? I need to know. Ah, never mind. We'll talk about it later.
Yeah. You do the talking.
Three million. I counted it twice.
It's twopointfive, George. I am sure.
I'm calling it three.
We're half a million off.
Fuck it. I'm not counting it again.
Weight it. If it's sixty pounds, it's three. If it's fifty, it's twopoint five.
I don't give a shit. Close enough.
Where do I put this!?
Try the back bedroom.
There's no room.
Try the closet.
Are you comfortable with this?
George, we've got sixtyone million dollars. It's either here or someplace else. We've got to put it somewhere. Unless you want to launder it.
And keep only fortypercent? No thanks.
Then relax. It's a federal bank. Guaranteed by the government. And Senor Noriega has very lenient banking principles. No questions. No problems. All the pesados keep their money here. Even El Padrino. What do you worry? Everyone knows we are with Escobar. Who is going to fuck with us?
I'm married, George. Me. I can't believe it. Can you believe I'm married, George?
You're a lucky man, Diego.
I love you, my brother, do you know that?
I love you too, man.
Three years. How long have we been in business? Three years. Does she get to meet your connection? Was she good enough?
Shut up, Diego. They're going to be here any minute. I'm trying to concentrate.
I'm very angry with you, George. Very angry. You don't take me to California, but you take your bitch wife? A woman? I understand you love her, but it was you and me who started this. You and me.
What do you need my connection for, Diego? What are you going to do with it?
What do I do with it? Nothing. It's for peace of mind. It's for the principle.
Jesus fucking Christ, Diego. I ain't telling you. It's just business. Now, shut up. You're driving me crazy.
I'm driving you crazy? No. You're driving me crazy. We had a dream. What happened to our dream?
Nothing. Todo esta bien.
Everything is not alright. I bring you in, and you slap my fucking face!
This is not the time, Diego.
Take it easy! Everything's okay!
Que es lo que quieren de me, hijueputas campesinos?
Estoy bien, okay? Everything is alright. There's no problem. Okay? This never happened. No one has to know anything about this. Diego, I want you to calmly tell them where the fucking coke is. Do it now.
Es un Ford blanco junto a una pickup.
Derek Foreal.
What?
Derek Foreal. Derek Foreal. Derek fucking Foreal. Alright? The answer to all your dreams. Are you happy now?
George, I am happy to see you. How are you, my brother?
No more brothers, Diego.
Of course we are brothers. Why do you say that? You hurt me, George.
You fucked me, Diego.
I did not.
You went behind my back and you cut me out.
No, I never. I would not do that, George. Never.
I talked to Foreal, Diego.
You'd better kill me now, Diego, because you're a dead man.
George, don't be so emotional. This is business. Besides, I can't kill you, you are my brother.
I want my kid out of protective custody. Now. No fucking around. My wife and my kid on a plane tonight. I sign when they call me safe and sound.
No fucking way.
Fuck you, then. I sign nothing.
George? You better get yourself a good lawyer this time. We're gonna nail your ass to the wall on this one.
Oh hey, one more thing?
What's that?
Get me a six pack.
What can I do for you guys?
We want some grass.
I know what you want. But, first of all, are you cops?
No.
Because if you are, you have to tell me. If not, it's entrapment.
We're not cops. We're from Massachusettes. I mean, does he look like a cop?
I guess not. Okay. You know, you're very lucky you're friends of Barbie's. If you weren't, I'd never talk to you.
What the fuck is that?
It's your grass.
What can I do for you guys?
We want some grass.
I know what you want. But, first of all, are you cops?
No.
Because if you are, you have to tell me. If not, it's entrapment.
We're not cops. We're from Massachusettes. I mean, does he look like a cop?
I guess not. Okay. You know, you're very lucky you're friends of Barbie's. If you weren't, I'd never talk to you.
What the fuck is that?
It's your grass.
The way we figure it, Barbara flies to Boston twice a week. Two bags per flight. Twentyfive pounds in each bag.
You're kidding, right? That's a hundred pounds a week.
Yeah, I know, it's a lot of weight.
I don't know...
Here's the best part. We can charge fivehundred a pound.
Come on, George, no one is going to pay that.
It's already been negotiated. It's done. The money is there waiting.
Goodness.
Goodness is right. If you do the math, that's over thirty grand a week profit. I want you to be my partner on this, Derek. Fiftyfifty. That's fifteen thousand a week for you, my friend. In your pocket, free and clear.
And I only deal with you?
Barbara and me. No one else.
I don't think so.
You guys are such babies. You want to go home, go. Me, I'm not going to stop until I find the fucking motherlode.
Are you sure you want to do this in front of everyone?
Don't be ridiculous, these are my babies.
What did I tell you?
It's great and everything, but what am I going to do with all this?
Sell it?
Half a million for you. Half a million for me. Onepointthree five for the Colombians.
Nice doing business with you, George.
Not bad for a weekend's work, huh?
It's nothing personal, George. Just business.
Yeah. I understand. Just business. Right. Fuck you.
Happy Birthday, George. Mirtha invited me.
Yeah. She told me.
Look, I'm sorry about everything. I feel like an idiot. You were right. I did fuck you. And then Diego fucked me. Cut me out, too.
I heard.
I lost sight of everything. Forgot who my friends were.
It's in the past. I'm out of the business now, so forget about it. No hard feelings. We need to move on. And besides, I'm sorry, too.
You?
For calling you a homo.
That was out of line.
Christ almighty, George. Feed her a cheeseburger or something. What does she weight, eighty pounds?
I know. She needs to slow down. She's going to blow an Oring.
Not so fast. I would like to go over the details.
What details? I put the coke in the false bottoms and take it through customs.
Tell me about the suitcases. What is the make and the color?
Hmm. I see. Will there be clothes in the suitcase?
What? Yeah, sure.
Whose cloths? Your clothes?
My clothes, your clothes. What does it matter?
I would like to know the contents. Every detail is important.
What are we doing here, Diego? This guy's a clown. He's talking about clothes.
I demand to know everything. I do not trust sixhundred thousand dollars of coca to someone I don't know.
It's a lousy fifteen kilos. I piss fifteen kilos.
The coca is my responsibility!
You're a fucking amateur!
Why are you speaking?
Excuse me?
You. Your responsibility is over. You do not fly. You are not a pilot. You are not a distributor. You introduced us to Mr. Stevens and the use of his airplane. That is all. You make a percentage. A generous one. And you're lucky to get that.
I see. How much?
Padrino will pay tenthousand per kilo. For everyone. For you, and you, and you.
Mirtha.
Diego needs to see you right away, please. Excuse us, Amorcito.
Mr. Jung, you're a convicted felon, correct?
Yes, I am.
Do you have any agreement or understanding whatsoever with the United States government in regards to your testimony?
No, I cam here out of my own volition.
Excuse me?
Something about vengance being best served cold.
Really. Are you getting paid, Mr. Jung?
Excuse me?
Mr. Jung, don't you have an agreement or understanding with the United States Government in connection with your testimony in this case?
I'm doing sixty years at Otisville, no chance of parole. Even if they cut my sentence in half I'll be seventythree years old. That's some fucking deal. I don't know if the parole board, the judge, the pope or Jesus Christ himself can get me out of here. I have a really bad record, I'm not sure what's going to happen.
So you do have an agreement with the United States Government, Mr. Jung, correct?
Tuna, this is crap.
I know it's not the greatest. It's commercial.
It's garbage.
You can't sell this to your friends.
Man. Fuck you guys. I have this great idea and you guys have to be all skeptical.
Look, if you really wanna score some dope, I got the guy.
Tuna, this is crap.
I know it's not the greatest. It's commercial.
It's garbage.
You can't sell this to your friends.
Man. Fuck you guys. I have this great idea and you guys have to be all skeptical.
Look, if you really wanna score some dope, I got the guy.
Are you sure this guy is cool?
You'll see for yourself.
Nothing like this back home.
Derek!
This is it for me.
What is?
Just everything. You. California. The beach. This spot right here. I feel like I belong here, you know? It just feels right.
You happy, baby?
Yeah. I am.
Are you sure this guy is cool?
You'll see for yourself.
Nothing like this back home.
Derek!
This is it for me.
What is?
Just everything. You. California. The beach. This spot right here. I feel like I belong here, you know? It just feels right.
You happy, baby?
Yeah. I am.
We're gonna call it California sinsemilla. Sounds exotic.
I'm telling you, Derek, it will sell.
Should we buy it?
Are you kidding?
We'll take it.
Honey, your nose!
Oh my Gd, I'm so sorry.
You wanna split?
Yeah, I don't feel so well.
Okay, guys, we're gonna leave. Let's get the check.
Are you sure you're okay? You're pale.
I feel like shit. Me and my frigging nosebleeds.
I'm taking you to the doctor when we get home, and I don't want to hear any arguments.
Would you be bummed out if I didn't go to Chicago with you?
No, not at all. Sure. You're right. You fly home and get some rest.
Nice first impression. A nose bleed in front of your parents.
Oh my Gd, how embarrassing were they? I wanted to shoot myself.
Oh, they weren't that bad. I mean, they were kind of cute.
Promise me that we'll never be like them. I don't want to wind up like that.
Relax, baby. We're going to wind up like us.
Surprise.
Baby, you didn't have to come.
What, and miss all the fun? C'mon, not a chance. So, what's the verdict?
Lawyer says he can plead it down to five years. I'll serve two.
Two years. George, I can't wait that long.
What? You're not going to wait for me?
George, I went to the doctor. I don't have two years.
Which brings me to rule number three: which says, fuck rules one and two, skip bail and take off.
I'm so glad you two could make it. Mirtha, look at you. So beautiful. You look like you're about to burst.
Thanks. I am. Where's Martha?
I don't know. Drunk somewhere. Try the bar. And if you find her, tell her to come, it's almost midnight.
Que va hacer?
Que queres decir. Que es lo que el va hacer? Pues, no va hacer nada.
Blanca, por favor.
Mama, vos sos bien antigua. Como lo va a matar con un picahielo. Eso era en su tiempo, estamos casi ya en los ochenta. El lo va a meter un tiro, lo va a volar, le va a hechar un hijueputa carro encima.
Dejen la maricada pues! No jodan! Nadie va a matar a nadie! George, debemos hablarle al Patron, es la unica manera, mano.
Pleased to meet you finally, George. I am Augusto Oliveras.
My pleasure, Augusto. Diego has told me much about you.
Norman Cay is not a person. He is an island, George. In the Bahamas. From what they say, it is free and it's Diego's new home.
What?
Let us walk. From what I understand, Diego has bought a hundred and sixty acres, a marina, a hotel, and an airstrip.
Motherfucker works fast.
The word is that soon he is to be king of the middle empire. He is doing multiple runs right now and using the island as a jumpoff point.
He what?
Yes. Jack Stevens is already a very busy man. Along with many others. You shouldn't stay away so long.
That's impossible. We can't be up and running. Who's distributing?
No honey, I'm alright.
A toast! To Mister George Jung. Mr. I 95, north and south. My brotherinlaw. Happy birthday!
Threehundred kilos is a very big load, Georgie. Why don't we start small?
No. I have the space. I figured it out. This is what I want to do.
Alright. I'll ask Pablo, tell him it's for you. I don't think there will be a problem.
Fivethousand per kilo.
Ha ha. That's too much, Georgie. Those days are over. The rate is onethousand dollars. Inflation, you know?
This is a one time thing, Gusto. One and I'm out. Give me a good price for old time's sake. What do you think?
QUIET! Callate! Where's Diego?
I don't know. He sent me. I'm George.
Oh, I see. George. Well, that explains everything. Open your mouth, George.
I've been holding this shit for him for three weeks. You tell Diego I don't appreciate it. You tell him I want my money by Friday. Can you do that?
Umhmm.
Greetings, Mr. George.
Where do you guys want to count?
On the plane.
What plane? We going someplace? Where we headed? You have your money. It's all there. What the fuck is going on?
Mike's gotta go. Nice to meet you.
Yeah, nice meetin' yuh.
What are watchin' this junk for?
You can change it if you want to.
I don't know why we have to watch T.V.
Mike. We don't have to watch it. Come on.
Sandy?. Could I talk to you a minute?
Sure. just a sec. Excuse me.
Come on out a minute, okay?
Okay.
Hey come here, you stole my girl, you bastard. I'm gonna kick your ass, right in front of your stupid house.
... Stop it Mike.
Hello. uh. my name is Jeffrey Beaumont. Is Detective Williams in?
Oh, yes, Jeffrey. Come in. He'll be back any minute now. You're welcome to wait. Is it urgent?
I just wanted to ask him a few questions, that's all. Maybe I better go.
Really, he'll be home soon, would you like a cup of coffee?
Alright.
I was sorry to hear about your father. I know your mother from church. It's such a shame.
Yeah, I know.
Would you like a piece of cake?
No. No thank you.
It's a real good chocolate cake. Duncan Hines' devil's food. real good.
Yeah. okay.
He comes over to study.
Yeah.
Mrs. Williams? Thanks for the cake.
Oh, you're welcome. Nice to finally meet you, Jeffrey.
Say "goodnight" to Sandy.
Here you are. Would anyone like coffee?
That sounds great!
Anyone else?. Alright Jeffrey, just a minute.
Please excuse me a moment, Jeffrey, and I'll get to the dishes.
Sure thing. please don't worry about me. Can I help you with the dishes?
Nice of you to offer, Jeffrey, but certainly not. just relax and enjoy your coffee. I'm sure Sandy will be back soon.
Sandy? ...Sandy, please.
I'll get a coat for her.
No.
Looks like you'd make a good runner.
Well.
I mean, you don't exactly have the build for a football. I mean. no offense.
No. you're right.
I mean. some guys play anyway but they usually get slaughtered.
Yeah, well I never wanted to get slaughtered much.
Well, most guys don't. I mean that's the point. You all mind if I take my vitamins?
Hey, you ivy league shit. COME HERE!
Later Mike. I gotta take care of someone who's hurt here, in case you haven't noticed.
I mean, for good, Jeffrey.
For good?. I can't. Mom. Not right in the middle of the term.
Jeffrey. honey. Your father's condition is serious. It's going to cost so much. We just won't have the money to keep you in school. I'm telling you this now, so that you can get your things together and check out of school, honey, or whatever you have to do. it'll save you another trip back. You're going to have to work at the store.
Where's all your things, Jeffrey?
This is it.
Jeffrey, breakfast is ready.
Be right down.
What time are visiting hours?
I've made arrangements with Dr. Gynde for 10:30. But Jeffrey, you'll have to walk over; I need the car this morning.
Well. Okay.
Jeffrey, when you see your father.
Yeah?
He doesn't know you're out of school. He thinks it's a vacation for you.
What?
It would be too much for him. So please let him think as he does, that you're home just to see him.
Thanks a lot, Mom.
.Jeffrey!. Nobody wanted you to leave school and go to work in the store. maybe going back to school will be an option one day. I hope so.
I'm going out for awhile.
Do you want the car?
No, I'm just gonna walk around.
Alright.
Can I use the car tonight?
Of course, Jeffrey.
God. you scared me.
Is something wrong? What's happened to your face?
Nothing. I'm fine.
You can't just stay out half the night and carry on, Jeffrey. There's got to be some order, Jeffrey. I thought it would have been nice to call your father when you got home but now it is much too late.
Hi Dad.
Hey Jeff.
Looks like they've got you strapped in pretty good.
uh uh.
Are you feeling okay?
uh uh.
Good to see you, son.
It's good to see you, Dad.
How ya doin' Dad?
Hey Jeff. I'm feelin' so much better.
Good deal Dad.
Yeah, how did you know?
I just know, that's all. I remember you from Central.
Oh yeah?
You were pretty popular. Didn't you run for some office?
Yeah I did. treasurer. Shouldn't you be studying or something.
Am I bothering you?
No. You're not bothering me. You a senior?
Yes.
How is Central these days?
Terrible. boring.
What else is new?. right?
Yeah. What are you doing now?
I'm home from school. My father's in the hospital.
That's too bad.
What do you know about the ear?. anything?
Didn't my father tell you not to talk about it?
Come on. you brought it up. Do you know anything?
I don't really know much but bits and pieces . I hear things. My room is right above my father's office. The ear. there's no corpse in the morgue missing an ear, and it did come off a living person. That's direct from the Coroner's Office. The person is unknown. There are a couple of cases I get mixed up on, but I think there are some people who were brought in for questioning on a murder case that could have something to do with the ear. I heard some of the same names.
Do you know who was brought in for questioning?
There were at least three, maybe four. But a name that keeps coming up is this woman who lives in an apartment building very close to your house and also close to the field where you found the ear. There's also a business man over by the Franklin factory district that was questioned. and a musician. and some others.
Were all these people questioned this afternoon?
No. this has been going on for some time . several months. About six months ago some parts of bodies were found down by the river. They were from people who were reported missing. They never found one complete body. only parts.
The ear is from a missing person maybe?
Maybe so.
It's a strange world isn't it? Do you know what building the woman lives in?
Yeah. It's close by. that's what's creepy. They've had her under surveillance for a couple of months, except I don't know what they've found out because my father isn't in charge of her.
I guess you have to get back home soon?
Not really, why? You want to see the building?. Come on, I'll show you.
That's the building. She lives on the Seventh Floor. Don't stop to look long . the police are watching.
Where are they?
I don't know. you're not supposed to see them. They're supposed to see you.
Did they find out anything when they questioned her?
I don't know. like I said, she's not my father's case.
Oh yeah. What about those other people? . Anything?
My father is watching the businessman. The businessman had a partner who disappeared. left his whole business and family, his wife and two kids. They think he's been murdered.
You really do hear a lot, don't you?
Yeah, I guess so. What are you going to do now that you're home?
I have to help out in my father's hardware store. they're giving me sort of my own hours for a while. which is nice.
Still, it must be kinda rough.
It's not bad. but it's bad enough. it's a lot worse for my father. I used to know a kid who lived there and who had the biggest tongue in the world.
What happened to him?
I don't know. he moved away.
I've gotta go in.
Thanks for the tour. It was nice talking to you.
I guess so. Like you said. It's a strange world.
Yeah. Good bye.
You hungry or thirsty, or both?
I don't know.
I'd like to talk to you about something.
Just a minute. pull over and wait a minute.
I don't want to cause any trouble.
I'm here, aren't I?
I guess Mike's got some sort of sports practice in the afternoon.
Ooooo, you are smart. Just don't get too smart.
Alright, now tell me. What is it?
There are opportunities in life for gaining knowledge and experience. sometimes, in some cases. it's necessary to take a risk. I got to thinking. I'll bet a person could learn a lot by getting into that woman's apartment. you know. sneak in and hide and observe.
You said it was a strange world. and you're the strangest part of it. Are you crazy.she is possibly involved in murder. This gives me the creeps.
Settle down. I have a plan which I think will work. There is very little for you to do, but I do need your help. .Aren't you curious about my plan?
It wouldn't hurt to hear the plan, I guess.
Alright. the first thing is to get into her apartment and open a window that I could crawl into later.
Now, how are you going to do that?
Right out in the car I happen to have some old overalls and a bug spraying rig. I will go to her apartment and be the pest control man. I will spray her apartment. After a few minutes you will knock on her door, drawing her attention away from me and I will then jimmy a window.
What will I say when she comes to the door?
You will be a Jehovah's Witness. I have a few "Awake" magazines for you. You don't have to keep her very long. a few seconds is all I'll need. Whatiya think?
I don't know. it sounds like a good daydream, . but actually doing it is too weird. too dangerous.
Let's just try the first part. If that goes well, we'll see about the rest. No one will suspect us, because no one would believe two people like us would be crazy enough to do something like this.
You've got a point there.
Now. we'll walk over so there's no license plates and you give me at least three minutes. I can stall if it's more, but I need time to find a good window .alright?
Alright.
Let's go.
Okay, I'm going ahead. Wait a minute, what's her name?
Oh bother. Dorothy Vallens, Seventh Floor. Look on the mailbox for her number, bright boy.
Thanks. Dorothy Vallens. Okay. good luck . three minutes, no sooner.
Alright. Good luck, yourself.
Are you alright?
Yeah. let's get outta here. What happened?
I was just about to go to the door, when that man did my job for me. Was it alright?
Yes and no. Did you recognize him?
No. I only saw his back. He went down another stairwell at the end of the hall.
I didn't get a good look at him either, but he sure looked at me. I didn't have time to get a window, but I found this key. Pretty nifty, huh?
Yeah, if it opens the door.
Yeah.
So. what's next?
Pretty clever. Are you game for more?
I owe you. since I goofed up this one.
You didn't goof it up, but. you still owe me one. I want to sneak in tonight. It's Friday. do you have a date tonight?
Yes. I do.
Well, it's Friday night and you're a beautiful girl. I guess you would have a date. that does that.
You really want to do this, don't you?
I don't want you to get involved, really, I mean, I do, but if something went wrong I mean, like you said, they may be involved in murder.
I'll tell Mike I'm sick. There's a game tonight anyway and he'll never miss me. Afterwards he can go out with the guys. Just so the record is kept straight though, I love Mike. What do want me to do?
First of all, we'll have a nice dinner. Try to find out where Dorothy sings.
I already know. The "Slow Club." It's on Route 7.
Great. I'll pick you up around eight o'clock. Is that good?
Yeah, but don't pick me up. my father may think it's strange. I'll walk over to your house. I'll be there at eight o'clock.
Okay. You better get out before someone sees us.
What's the plan.
First of all, we're going to the Slow Club to see Dorothy Vallens. We'll watch her for awhile. I'd like to hear her sing anyway, and then also we'll know she is there and not in her apartment.
Brilliant.
Then we'll drive back to her apartment and I will plant myself there.
This is not my usual Friday night!
I'd like an icecold Heineken.
That sounds good.
Two.
Here's to. an interesting experience.
I'll drink to that.
Jeffrey, I don't think you ought to do it.
Why not?
It's crazy and dangerous. My God. I shouldn't have told you.
It'll be okay. I don't think you should wait out here though. I think you should go home. Can you drive this car?
Yeah. but.
Leave it in the front of your house for me. okay?
O.K.
Could you wait a little while. this key may not fit.
. I wish you wouldn't do this. It doesn't make any sense. Let's go somewhere and have some coffee.
I'm going in, Sandy. I'll see you tomorrow and tell you how it went.
I. I don't want to see you tomorrow. Mike's coming over.
Oh, okay. can I call?
Okay. yeah, call.
Look. it can wait till Sunday.
Call tomorrow. It's okay. Good luck. I hope you can sneak out okay. You're going to wait until she's asleep?
Yeah.
I'm going to wait here until she comes.
Are you sure?
I'll honk four times so you'll hear it and know she's on her way up. Okay?
Okay. thanks.
I don't know if you're a detective or a pervert.
That's for me to know and for you to find out. I'll see you. I mean call you. okay?
Okay, okay. Bye.
Well, how did it go?. What happened?
Well. I've found out some things. nothing really for certain. There are some strange people involved.
What did you see?
Well. Maybe we should discuss this somewhere else. you know what I mean?
What's with Mike?
He got a little jealous.
I'm sorry, I didn't.
It's okay. Don't worry about it.
You want a Dairy Queen?
No way. I'm about to blow up.
You want to tell me about it?
. OK. It's a strange world, Sandy. this is what I have found out. What I think I have found out. Dorothy Vallens is married to a man named Don. they have a son. I think the son and the husband have been kidnapped by a man named Frank who has now cut off both of Don's ears. I think he is holding them to make her do things for him. I think she wants to die. the ears were for her a warning to stay alive. there is another man involved. I call him the "yellow man". you saw his back the other day in the hall at her door. I don't know what he does but I think he's on drugs supplied by Frank. Frank is a very dangerous man.
Wow. Should you tell my father?
I don't see how I can. and I can't prove any of this. I got all this information illegally. also it could get you in trouble.
You saw a lot in one night.
. Actually. I've been in twice.
Twice. without her sensing anything?
Yes.
Did you see her undressed?
Yeah. I mean. a little, . you know.
Yeah?
That doesn't bother you, does it?
Who, me? Why should it?
That's what I thought.
You're sure right. It is a strange world.
Why are there people like Frank. Why is there so much trouble in this world.?
I don't know. I had a dream. in fact. the night I met you. . in the dream the world was dark because there weren't any robins. you know, birds. robins stood for love. and all of a sudden thousands of robins flew down and brought this blinding light of love. and it felt like that love would be the only thing that would make any difference. I guess. until the robins come there is trouble.
Yeah I guess so. You're a neat girl.
So are you. I mean you're a neat guy. We better get back.
I guess so. you want to help me watch Frank?. I'm going to stake out Frank's place tomorrow. with a camera.
No, silly  I'm still in school you know. but I'll meet you after school and you can tell me what you've learned. You better be careful, Jeffrey.
I will. I'll pick you up on the same corner at three thirtyfive, okay?
Okay. be careful.
Okay, Sandy.
Can I give you a kiss good night?
You better not, Jeffrey.
Okay. okay.
Goodnight.
See ya tomorrow.
You were late.
I'm really sorry.
What am I going to do?
You want to go talk to him?
Yeah, but. I don't think it's going to do much good. Let's go. I'll try to talk to him later.
You know, that cheese is practically all chemicals.
That's what makes it so good. You wanta hear what I saw today?
Shoot.
Number one. I saw the Yellow Man go into Frank's building, laughing with Frank. Now. the only trouble is. what does this prove?
Nothing really, but it's interesting. they know each other. they seem to like each other.
Maybe. But I think the Yellow Man is on drugs. I think Frank supplies him.
Oh yeah?
Number two. I saw the Yellow Man come out. This time with a welldressed man with an alligator briefcase. They drove down this factory building and stood on a staircase looking at something in the distance. Number three. now get this. In the distance was a murder. a drug dealer shot to death and a woman with her legs broken.
Jeffrey!!
Then these guys told me the police will find a huge amount of drugs inside the dead man's place.
I can't believe what you are finding out. Are you going to continue with this. Are you going back to her apartment?
Yeah.
Jeffrey?. Why?
I'm seeing something that was always hidden. I'm involved in a mystery. I'm learning. and it's all secret.
You like mysteries that much?
Yeah. you're a mystery. I like you. very much.
You worry about me really?
Yes. is that so surprising?. Yeah I worry. a lot. I got you into this.
Great. Hey. I've got a bit of a problem. I know some things. that could help your father but you might get into trouble.
Jeffrey. are they important things? Well forget me  you have to tell him. Jeffrey. I mean it.
Everything okay?
Yeah. I think so. I just had to tell him some of what I knew. Is Friday still on?
You didn't tell him about me?
No.
I should never had gotten you going on this. Yes Jeffrey. Friday's on!
Okay. great!
Okay.
What is it?
Just some fatherly advice.
What was that all about?
Nothing. really! It's good to see you.
It's good to see you.
Where to?
Just go over to Gelford and up to Vista. It's not far. Can you tell me any more about what you learned?
I'd rather not talk about it. I'll tell you about it sometime.
It's okay.
... You look beautiful.
Thank you. Whatiya say we just enjoy the evening?
I like that idea. that's a real good idea.
You want to dance?
I can't dance fast.
Really?
Really. you want to dance with someone else?
NO.
Let's wait for some slow one.
Just a minute.
You want to dance?
Okay.
Oh my God. What's wrong?
Frank!!
My father has a gun at home.
No.
Sandy. this guy is a killer!! I promise you.
Dorothy! ... Dorothy!
Dorothy Vallens?
Yes.
Take her to my house. My dad can get an ambulance faster than anyone. Do you have anything to put around her?
No. Is Detective Gordon going to be at your house?
Probably not. no. Why?
OK. Let's get her over to your father's.
Right. Watch out for Mike, there.
I should go with her, Sandy.
Go ahead.
... Sandy?.
Go ahead!
Please get to your father and send him and the police to Dorothy's apartment right away. Be sure your father comes. Something is happening over there. They're hurting someone. the guy she loves. Tell them to hurry. I'm going over right now.
No Jeffrey!!
Yes I'm going. I have to. I love you. I will, believe me.
Look Jeffrey.
Yeah. I just saw him outside. Maybe the robins are here.
Come on. I wancha to meet a frienda mine. Raymond, get enough beer for Ben too.
Okay Frank.
What kinda beer do you like?
Raymond! Where's the fuckin' beer?
Right here Frank. You want me to pour it?
No, I want ya to fuck it. Shit, yes. pour the fuckin' beer.
There ya go.
Good, let's drink up.
No thanks.
No thanks. what does that mean?
I don't want to go.
Go where?
On a ride.
A ride?. Hell, that's a good idea. okay, let's go. Hey, let's go.
Heineken.
FUCK THAT SHIT. PABST BLUE RIBBON!!!
Hey neighbor. Here's to Ben.
Here's to Ben.
Do you see, Ben?. I can make him do anything I fuckin' please.
Hey? . You like to walk.
What?
Let's take our neighbor out. Let him fuckin' walk back.
What are you lookin' at?
Nothing.
Don't look at me, Fuck. I shoot when I see the whites of the eyes. You like me?.
Don't be a good neighbor to her or I'm gonna send you a love letter. straight from my heart, fucker. You know what a love letter is? It's a bullet. straight from my gun, fucker. Once you get a love letter from me, you're fucked forever. Understand, Fuck?
Yes.
I'll send you straight to hell, Fuck!
We're looking for him. In your opinion, why did Frank kidnap Dorothy's son and husband?
He became obsessed with her. She hated him. He had to have her. He kidnapped them to control her. to make her do things. Then she wanted to commit suicide so he started cutting off ears as a warning to her to stay alive. I'm not kidding. Frank loved blue. blue velvet. He had to have Dorothy cause her whole life was blue.
You seemed to see some very interesting things on your little escapade with Dorothy Vallens.
Yeah. I guess I did. What's going to happen to me?
We're going to leave that up to Detective Williams. I'll tell you though. you're okay. you shot a real son of a bitch.
Yeah. I sure know that. Yeah, but how many more are out there?
Yes? What is it?
Pest control. gotta do your apartment.
Oh God, that stuff stinks.
Nope. it's new stuff. no smell.
Oh yeah, that's good.
That oughta do it.
Yeah.
GET OUT OF THERE!! GET OUT!! Put your hands up, on your head. GO ON!! Get down on your knees  DO IT!! What are you doing? Who are you? What's your name?. WHAT'S YOUR NAME?
Jeffrey.
Jeffrey. Jeffrey what?
Jeffrey nothing.
You tell me!! Let me see that wallet. Jeffrey Beaumont. What're you doing in my apartment, Jeffrey Beaumont?
I wanted to see you.
What? Are you kidding me? Who sent you here?
Nobody.
Shit. You better tell me something.
I was. an experiment. Just to see if I could do it.
An experiment? Hey, I've seen you before.
I sprayed your apartment. I took your key. I really didn't mean to do anything but see you.
Tell me what you saw tonight. TELL ME.
. I saw you come in, talk on the phone. get undressed.
The phone. What did you hear on the phone . Tell me. Word for word.
You said hello. to Frank. You wanted to talk to someone?. Don?. and little Donny. You said something about Momma loves you. and something about a Meadow Lane. something in an hour. I don't remember any more.
That's right. That's what I said. You have a good memory. Then what?
Well.
THEN WHAT?
Then you got undressed.
How many times have you sneaked into girls' apartments and watched them undress?
Never before this.
How'd you like it if someone sneaked into your house and watched you. Get undressed. I want to see you.
No. Come on.
NO, you come on. Take off your pants. I want to see you.
Look. I'm sorry. Just let me leave.
No way.
What do you want from me?
I . I don't know.
What do you want?
Do you like that?
Yes.
Do you like talk like that?
No.
Lie down on the bed.
Don't. I don't like that. What do you want?
Nothing. Are you alright?
Sure I'm alright.
I'll go then.
Don?
No.
Don. Hold me. I'm scared. Hold me. Please.
Thank you. honey.
It's okay. It's okay.
Do you like the way I feel?
Yes.
See my breasts? . See?
Yes.
See my nipples?
Yes.
You can kiss them if you want. Fell them . They're getting hard.
You can hit me, if you want to.
No. please. I won't.
Do you like me?
Yes, I like you.
You can be my special friend and come and put that in me.
I made it go down the toilet.
What?
Next Christmas. Is he Santa Claus who has left a present for Dorothy? What was it? An ear? Another ear?!! What was it?
Do you know?
No.
You don't?
No. What is happening?
Maybe you don't know. I know you though. You're Jeffrey Beaumont and I know where you live and I know ways to get you and I know ways to kill you.
Please don't talk like that. You're upset. I'm not helping you. I'm sorry for what I did. I better go.
Go then. I can't let you put it in me now but I want you. I like you.
Then don't talk about killing.
Did I say that?. I didn't mean it. or did I? Sometimes I think it would be fun. Go ahead, you better leave now. I can't open myself to you now. I'll tell you a little secret. I want to die.
Don't say that.
It's a secret so don't tell anyone. Some day I'll show you where. I've gotta go to sleep now.
O.K.
Hi. can I come in?
Yeah. hurry up though.
. I. uh.
I looked for you in my closet tonight. It's crazy, I don't know where you came from but. I like you.
That's not crazy. I like you too.
I liked being with you last night.
. same here.
Oh shit.
Frank? .can you stand up?
I'm alright. go hide. This won't take long. Be quiet.
Nice guy. Who's he?
Who's it, you mean.
Oh God. Don!!! Why can't I just die.
There you go again. stop saying that. You can make it.
I can't. I can't. You think you know so much.
Take it easy. What's goin' on anyway?. Why are you in so much trouble?
Look.
No.
Falling.
No. Please, Dorothy. Why are you in so much trouble?
Who is Don?
Don?. Are you in with them?
No. But you're in very big trouble.
Why are you so interested? Why do you keep asking me?
I came back to help you. You said do I let girls sneak into my house. You know where I live. if you need to. come to where I live. O.K.?
Who are you? Maybe I'll need to. you like me, huh?
Yes.
. or do you just want me? I'm going to let you enter me now.
No. I should go.
Please. please stay.
Come in.
Hello.
It used to make me laugh .but.
I'm sorry .maybe I better go Dorothy.
Yes. Frank
Frank is coming?
No. how could he?. Don't go. You think I'm crazy, don't you? I want you to stay. . don't hate me.
I sure don't hate you.
I'm not crazy. I know the difference between right and wrong.
That's good.
Do you like my body?
Sure I do.
What do you want to do?
I'm doing it.
Are you a bad boy?
Whatiya mean?
Do you want to do bad things? Anything. anything.
What do you want?
I want you to hurt me.
No. I told you. I don't want to hurt you. I want to help you. I think I know some of what is happening to you. . Dorothy? Frank has your husband and son. Dorothy? Doesn't he? You have to do something Dorothy. go to the police.
You like to open me. don't you?
Yes.
What if I told Frank that you opened me?
That wouldn't be too good, would it?
Frank would open you.
Okay. I know you've been scared. now you want to scare someone.
Does that scare you?
Shut up.
Beeeee careful.
Come on Dorothy.
What if Frank came over here and found us?
Look, snap out of it, will ya?
Kiss me.
Do you love me?
Do you love me?
I asked first.
Sometimes I think I do.
And sometimes you think you don't?! Well, get away then!
Wait a minute. Wait. Whatiya want? For cryin' out loud!
Just get outta my bed.
I love you Don with all my heart.
No. it's not Don.
I didn't mean to hurt you.
Shhhhhh. Now I have your disease.
You. what?
You put your disease in me. your semen. it's hot and full of disease.
There's no disease, I can tell you.
Men are crazy. then they put their craziness into me. then it makes me crazy. then they aren't so crazy for awhile. then they put their craziness in me again. . it's burning me. but I love you. I do, I do. Did you know that? Did you know that I love you?
I'm glad you do.
There's so much I want to tell you. I'm in so much darkness though with things moving. there is darkness sucking me. It's kissing me and darkness is entering me. in every hole. It's opening me to a death.
Dorothy. no!
If I die, then they'll be free. It's getting late, isn't it? I can tell. it's a cold feeling when it's late. It's warm then it gets cold. Jeffrey. I feel it getting cold.
You called me Jeffrey.
I did. are you?
Yes.
Why are you here? Hmmmmmmmm!!!! Ok.
No. not really. but also because I really want you to be alright.
I guess I should go.
I want you to stay with me.
I think I better go.
I'll call you.
Okay. soon? Do you think I'm too fat?
What?
I'm getting a little bit fat. I hate that.
You look beautiful to me.
Oh no.
No. Hi baby.
Yeah, it's me.
Oh God, Jeffrey. is that you? Oh God.
Where have you been? Oh God. they hurt him, Jeffrey. Jeffrey, Jeffrey, Jeffrey, hold me. HOLD ME. Oh God.
It's okay. it's okay.
My secret lover.
Shh. I'll tell you.
They hurt his head.
Who, Dorothy?
Don. help him. HELP HIM!! DONNY!!!!
Hold me, Don.
Don?. Where is he?
HELP HIM!! Promise me you'll help him!
I promise, Dorothy. I promise.
Hold me. I'M FALLING!
Frank gone?
Yeah. but get outta here. He's comin' back.
Bull.
Alright, suit yourself.
He's comin' back?. What for?
'Cause he's comin' back, that's what for. Frank's got you really loaded tonight.
Yeah, maybe so. Frank's got me. and you. and really it's all thanks to Don. isn't it. remember that. Your husband was the one who started fucking my mind with drugs.
Oh he forced you, huh?
He's the reformed dealer though who wanted to turn himself in. he's the one that caused Frank to come and Frank's fucking us real good. I just feel so horny. I'm supposed to be here watching you why can't I be here fucking you. Listen. I know his cock's the size of a pin  let me give you the real thing. let me wet my whistle, baby.
No way. get out. I'm gonna tell Frank. I'm gonna tell him what you said.
Okay, I'm goin'. You'll see. I'll get you.
Hello, baby.
Shut up. It's daddy. shithead.
Hello, daddy.
. my bourbon.
. MOMMY!.
. mommy's here.
Baby wants to fuck.
Who's this fuck?
He's a friend. from the neighborhood. we were just talking.
From the neighborhood? Shut the fuck up. You like telephones? Huh?. You wanta go for a ride?
Where are we going, Frank?
Hey. Tits. I'm taking your neighbor to the country. maybe something for you too.
Frank?
You want to see him too, right?
Yes, but.
Then, shut up!
Look at these. What are these?
Come on, Frank. Let's go. Please.
Don't say PLEASE, Fuckhead. WHAT ARE THESE?
Those are my breasts.
Can I feel 'em?
If you want to.
Frank. he didn't mean it. Leave him alone. come on. He didn't mean it.
Shut up. Gimme your lipstick. . Hey, pretty, pretty.
Are you Detective Williams?
Yes.
My name is Jeffrey Beaumont  I live near you. I believe you know my father, Tom Beaumont  Beaumont's Hardware Store?
Sure I do. I understand he's in the hospital. How is he?
He's alright, I guess. I hope. They're doing tests, that's why I'm home from school. I was over at the hospital this morning and I was going home and in the field behind our neighborhood. there behind Vista, I found an ear.
You did? A human ear?
Yeah. I've got it here in this bag. I thought I should bring it to you.
Yep, that's right. Let's take a look at it.
By the way, Jeffrey, this story isn't going to the press and I'm going to ask you to consider all you've heard strictly confidential. Do not discuss this business with anyone, but me, or other police personnel. Got it?
Got it. Thanks for letting me in on as much as you did.
Come on. I'll drive you home. It's on my way.
Come into the study a minute.
Excuse me, Mrs. Williams.
Detective Williams here. yeah. Tell him to go to Sergeant Milton. yeah, copy. Well, Jeffrey, you found something which is very interesting to us. Very interesting. I know you must be curious to know more. But. I'm afraid I'm going to have to ask you not only not to tell anyone about your find, but also not to ask more about the case. One day. when it's all sewed up, I'll let you know all the details. Right now, though. I can't.
I understand. I'm just real curious like you said.
I was the same way when I was you age. I guess that's what got me into this business.
It must be great.
And it's horrible too. I'm sorry Jeffrey. That's the way it has to be. Anyway. I'm sure you do understand.
Jeffrey?
Yes?
If you want to come up a minute, I'll show you some pictures.
These are beautiful. How's the case coming?
Okay.
Anything you can tell me?
The criminals are winning.
Is that why you say it's horrible?
Yes.
I guess you've seen some bad things.
Yes I have  so bad I wouldn't poison your mind by telling you.
Why do you do it?
I won't let the bastards get me up against the wall. It's an act of defiance.
Yeah. I get it.
What is this? What color is it?
Blue. It's Blue Velvet.
What color is it?
It's blue. blue velvet.
Jeffrey! Come on in.
Hi. Hi Sandy. I'm sorry to bother you, but I've got to talk to you.
Okay. come on in. Looks like you had a bad face lift.
Yeah.
Okay?
Okay. I gotta tell you. I've. discovered some things. .Anyway I have to show you some pictures and tell you some things about them. The first picture is this.
And that man came out with a third man  this welldressed guy. here's the photo. I think a girl named Dorothy Vallens is in trouble with these people. I think Frank has taken her husband and her son.
I have no hard proof of any of this. Her address is also on the photos. I think these people are involved with drugs. and murder. I think Frank is killing drug dealers and. . and somehow Frank is getting all their drugs. I had to tell you I got slightly more involved in this than you wanted me to, but it's over now for sure. .I had to tell you about these things in case it could help.
Well now Jeffrey, how did you come to get so involved?
I can't tell you the whole story. I. I took it upon myself. I can't say more.
Is Sandy part of this?
No. not at all.
Who knows you have these?
Only you. and the photo lab.
You're all through with this now?
For now. Alright. you better be. And Sandy better not be involved with this, I can tell you. Be prepared to come in for further interrogation on this later.
Yes sir.
Detective Williams!! Detective Williams!!
Detective Williams here. Is that you, Jeffrey?
Yes it's me!!! Frank is on his way up to Dorothy's apartment. Oh no. Frank has a radio and is hearing everything we say!! Detective Williams. hurry. I'm in the apartment. hurry. I'm hiding in the back bedroom.
We're ten minutes away and moving as fast as we can.
Because of your information I alerted internal affairs to check out Detective Gordon. I had to keep on with him as if nothing was different. He slipped off on his own when he found out we were going to raid Frank's place.
Does Dorothy know her husband is dead?
Not yet.
Oh my God. Is her son OK?
Frank. Come in.
Hey, I brought some friends. and some beer.
Fine. Welcome. Come sit down.
Suave. goddam are you suave, you fucker. You want some beer?
Certainly Frank. Darling, get some glasses. We'll have some beer with Frank. Won't you sit down?
Shit Ben! How the shit are ya?
Fine Frank. Fine. How are you?
Fuckin' good, real fuckin' good. You know this little tid bit, Dorothy, and this thing, here, is a neighbor. What the shit we're doin' with a neighbor, I don't know. goddam!!! This is the suavest guy I know. look at you. You're one beautiful fucker, Ben. I love this jacket and that cigarette holder of yours. shit, that is too fuckin' much. Where's those glasses. this beer's gonna get too warm. I can't stand fuckin' warm beer. it makes me puke.
Darling, where are the glasses?. Oh. here they are.
To your health, Frank.
Shit. let's drink to something else. let's drink to fuckin'. Say here's to your fuck Frank.
If you like Frank. Here's to your fuck. cheers.
Frank, I have something for you. Excuse us everyone.
EXCUSE US por favor! Hey. let Tits see her kid.
See you Tuesday, Frank.
Right Ben. LET'S GO FUCK. I'll fuck anything that moves.
I sent a trunk home yesterday. This is all I have.
You look good, Jeffrey. Did you have a nice flight?
Yeah. How's Dad?
I think it's important not to get depressed. Depression is a terrible thing. They say it can bring on illness.
Aunt Barbara. I'll try not to get depressed.
Jeffrey. you're not going down by Lincoln, are you?
No. I'm just going to walk around the neighborhood. Don't worry.
Doctor Gynde. my whole family's sick. What's going on?
I'm not sick.
Will you tell Mom when she gets home from the hospital that I've gone to dinner at Sandy Williams' house?
Okay honey. that sounds nice. Jeffrey. I think you've got termites in the house.
Oh yeah?. Have you seen any?
I've seen a few.
Well, I haven't seen any. I wouldn't worry about it. Look. I better go.
Okay honey.
I don't want to talk about it. Everything's okay now. I don't want to talk about it.
Sometimes it helps to talk things over. for instance, many marriages are saved by.
Aunt Barbara. I love you, but you're not gonna get it.
Where was I?
You we telling me about the Ring of Fire.
Yeah, well, I may be getting in over my head here, I mean you're the geologist, but my theory for what it's worth, you got all these volcanoes and each time one pops it's the equivalent of what, twenty, thirty megatons of TNT? Enough to light Las Vegas for how long? How many years? Course, I'm no mathematician but
What day is it today, Angie?
Tuesday.
Tuesday is ladies' night.
What?
Tuesday night is ladies' night. All your drinks are free.
Howdy stranger.
Meurice. Sorry I didn't show last night.
Wasn't too busy. You missed a good one, though. This white guy walks in about one o'clock, asks if we have a discount for alcoholics... I tell him to get lost, but Marty's sitting here listening and I can tell he's thinking that maybe it ain't such a bad idea...
Is Marty here?
Not here tonight. Wasn't here last night. He's especially not back in his office.
Thanks Meurice.
For what?
Got a problem, Meurice?
No, you do, cowboy. You been to the bar?
...Why?
You shouldn't have taken the money...
...and Abby. Maybe. But as far as I'm concerned that only leaves one fucking possibility.
What's that?
Yeah, I know. Pour 'em short.
Has Ray come in yet?
No, he's off tonight. Where was he last night?
How would I know?
I don't know, didn't he call?
What's this?
You said the usual
Red Label.
Right. Sorry.
Pour that back.
What.
Don't throw that out.
Right.
Deuce in the corner needs help.
Right.
What's this?
What.
This.
Jack Daniels. Don't worry, I'm paying for it.
That's not the point.
What's the point?
The point is we don't serve niggers here.
Where? ...I'm very careful about that.
...I thought you were dead. Going home?
No. I think I'll stay right here in hell.
Kind of a bleak point of view there, isn't it Marty?
Meurice...
...I don't want that asshole near my money. I don't even want him in the bar.
We get a lot of assholes in here, Marty.
What did you take these for?
What do you mean...
...Just doin' my job.
You called me, I knew they were there, so what do I need these for?
Well, I don't know... Call it a fringe benefit.
How long did you watch her?
Most of the night...
Now that don't make much sense.
No. It just made them feel better.
...Anything else?
Yeah, don't come by here any more. If I need you again I know which rock to turn over.
...That's the test, ain't it? Test of true love
Got a job for you.
...Well, if the pay's right and it's legal I'll do it.
It's not strictly legal.
If the pay's right I'll do it.
It's, uh... it's in reference to that gentleman and my wife. The more I think about it the more irritated I get.
Yeah? Well how irritated are you?
...Gee, I'm sorry to hear that. Can you tell me what you want me to do or is it a secret?
Listen, I'm notthis isn't a joke here.
You want me to kill 'em.
I didn't say that. Well?
Well what?
What do you think?
You're an idiot.
So, uh... this wouldn't interest you.
I didn't say that. All I said was you're an idiot. Hell, you been thinking about it so much it's driving you simple.
I'm supposed to do a murdertwo murdersand just trust you not to go simple on me and do something stupid. I mean real stupid. Now why should I trust you?
For the money.
The money. Yeah. That's a right smart of money...
...There's a big
I want you to go fishing.
...What?
Go down to Corpus for a few days. Get yourself noticed. I'll give you a call when it's done... You just find a way to cover that money.
Yeah. Is it...
Ya catch any fish?
...What?
Ya catch any fish?
Yeah...
...What kind of fish?
Listen, what is it? Is it done?
Just the ten thousand'll be fine.
Got something to show me first?
Dead, huh?
So it would seem.
...What did you do with the bodies?
It's taken care of. The less you know about it the better.
Jesus, I don't believe it...
Something I got to ask you, Marty. I've been very very careful. Have you been very very careful?
Of course.
Nobody knows you hired me?
...I just made a call about that. It'll look fine.
I must've gone money simple. This kind of murder...
...it's too damn risky.
Then you shouldn't have done it. Can't have it both ways.
...Count it if you want.
Nah, I trust ya.
What "what"?
Am I fired? You wanna hit me? What?
I don't particularly want to talk to you.
Well... if you're not gonna fire me I might as well quit.
Fine. Suit yourself. ...Having a good time?
Then what'd you come here for?
You owe me for two weeks.
...You get a refund though, if you tell me who else she's been sluicing.
I want that money. If you wanna tell me something, fine
What're you, a fucking marriage counselor?
...He gave me a little pearlhandled .38 for out first anniversary.
Uhhuh.
...Figured I'd better leave before I used it on him. I don't know how you can stand him.
Well, I'm only an employee, I ain't married to him.
Yeah...
...I don't know. Sometimes I think there's something wrong with him. Like maybe he's sick? Mentally?... Or is it maybe me, do you think?
Listen, I ain't a marriage counselor. I don't know what goes on, I don't wanna know... But I like you. I always liked you...
...What're you gonna do in Houston?
I'll figure something out... How come you offered to drive me in this mess?
I told you. I like you.
See, I never knew that.
Well now you do.
...Hell.
...You know that car?
No.
What's the matter?
I don't know... I just think maybe I'm making a mistake...
...What was that back there?
Back where?
Sign.
I don't know. Motel... Abby
Ray. Did you mean that, what you said before, or were you just being a gentleman?
Abby, I like you, but it's no point starting anything now.
Yeah.
I mean, I ain't a marriage counselor
Yeah.
Hold it, hold it. What's tonight?
What?
What night is it?
...Friday?
Right. Friday night is Yankee night. Where're you from?
Lubbock?
He needs a room, Dusty.
I reckon I can hear him... ...Room rate's eight sixtysix a day plus sales tax, plus extra for the TV option.
I reckon I can hear him. TV option, that's a dollar twenty, makes nine eightysix plus tax.
Tell him the channels, Dusty.
Channels, we got two and six. Two don't come in so hot.
Sure don't.
See, Wednesday's the special on RC Cola. I don't know if I explained about the TV option. If there's a TV in the room, you got to pay the option.
And how many room got TV, Dusty?
Ever durned one.
If he does come in I'm not here... What were you drinking, Debra?
Remy.
You've got a very sophisticated palate.
Thanks.
Give Debra here another drink, and give me the usual.
Listen, I got tickets for the Oilers and the Rams next week in the Astrodome. Ever sat on the fifty yard line?
I don't follow baseball.
You won't have to. I'll explain what a palate is.
You won't have to. I just wanted to see if you knew.
So how long have you know Meurice?
About ten years.
...So what're you doing tonight?
Going out with Meurice.
It'll pass.
We don't seem to be communicating
You want to hustle me. I don't want to be hustled. It's as simple as that. Now that I've communicated, why don't you leave?
I own the place.
Christ, I'm getting bored.
I'm not surprised, the company you've been keeping the last ten years.
...Ray?
Yeah.
What was that?
Your husband.
Why d'you wanna leave all this?
You kidding? I don't wanna leave all this, I just wanna leave Marty...
...Drive me to a motel?
You can stay at my place, I'll drop you there.
Where... where you going?
See a guy.
Don't go to the bar, Ray. I know him, that ain't a good idea.
I just gotta see a guy.
Who was it?
What?
On the phone. Was it for you?
I don't know, he didn't say anything.
Uhhuh. So how do you know it was a he?
You got a girlam I screwing something up by being here?
...I can find a place tomorrow, then I'll be outta your hair.
If that's what you want to do, then you oughta do it. You, uh... you want the bed or the couch?
Well... the couch would be all right...
You can sleep on the bed if you want.
Well... I'm not gonna put you out of your bed...
You wouldn't be putting me out.
...Well, I'd be okay in here
I could've sworn I heard something.
Door's locked. Nothing there.
I knew it. 'Cause we wouldn't have heard anything if it was him. He's real careful. Fact is, he's anal.
...Huh?
Yeah, he told me once himself. He said to me...
...Well I'll be damned.
I couldn't believe it either...
...He sent me to a psychiatrist to see if he could calm me down some.
Yeah? What happened?
Psychiatrist said I was the healthiest person he'd ever met, so Marty fired him.
...I don't know if you can fire a psychiatrist, exactly.
Well, I didn't see him anymore, I'll tell you that much.
Uhhuh.
I said, Marty, how come you're anal and I gotta go to the psychiatrist?
What'd he say?
Nothing. He's like you, he doesn't say much.
Thanks.
Except when he doesn't say things they're usually nasty.
...Mmhmm.
When you don't they're usually nice.
...You ever get tired?
Huh? Oh, yeah, I guess. Mmhmm.
Hello?
Abby... you all right?
Ray?... What time is it?
I don't know. It's early... I love you.
...You all right?
I don't know. I better get off now.
Okay, see ya... Thanks, Ray.
Abby
...Ray?
You're bad.
...What?
I said you're bad.
Why didn't you get into bed?
I didn't think I could sleep. I'm surprised you could. Are you all right?
Yeah...
...You called me this morning.
Yeah.
...I just wanted to let you know that everything was all right. I took care of everything. Now all we have to do is keep our heads.
...What do you mean?
What happened?Was Meurice there?
Yeah.
Well... what happened?
I cleaned it all up, but that ain't important...
...Anyway, we got some time now. But we gotta be smart.
Ray
Abby, never point a gun at anyone unless you're gonna shoot him. And when you shoot him you better make sure he's dead...
...That's the only thing they told us in the service that was worth a goddamnWhere the hell's my windbreaker?
What the hell happened, Ray?
...That's what's important.
I don't know what you're talking about.
I... I mean what're you talking about, Ray? I haven't done anything funny.
...What was that?
...Who?
Marty.
...What's going on with you two?
All right...
...Where is everything?
In the trunk.
...You leaving?
Isn't that what you want?
...But first I gotta know what happened.
What do you want to know?
You broke into the bar. You wanted to get your money. You and Marty had a fight. Something happened...
...I don't know, wasn't it you? Maybe a burglar broke in, and you found
With your gun?...
...So?
I think someone's watching.
Listen Meurice, you're gonna help me with a problem.
I am?
You're gonna keep an eye on Marty and Ray, make sure nothing happens.
It won't?
Thanks, Meurice.
Any time. But you don't have to worry about a thing for a while. Marty went down to Corpus yesterday.
Abby. What's the matter?
I... I'm sorry, Meurice. I gotta talk to you... Can I come in?
Jesus, I got a hangover. Want a drink?
No, I
Well I do...
...For you I answer the door. If you wanna stay here, that's fine. But I'm retired.
Something happened with Marty and Ray
Abby...
...Ray stole a shitload of money from Marty. Until both of 'em calm down I'm not getting involved.
No Meurice, it's worse than that. Something really happened, I think Marty's dead
What?! Did Ray tell you that?
Sort of...
...I mean, I don't know where he is, but he ain't dead.
Meurice
You don't look too good. You sleep last night?
She wants me to talk to you, Heather.
Who <u>is</u> this??
Your mother's pastor.
What happened to my Dad??
There was an accident early this morning. Another car. Your father's injuries were fatal.
Yes.
I'll tell your mother not to expect you at the funeral.
No.
Good morning, Sheriff's Office.
Yes! I need to speak to Sheriff Von Teer.
He's in a meeting. Could I have him
it's urgent!
Could I tell him what it's regarding?
His daughter, for God's sake I need to know if he's heard from her this morning.
....Ma'am?
I'm talking to Taos, New Mexico
yes
the Sheriff's Office
yes, Ma'am, can I help you with anything else?
his name's Von Teer! His daughter's named Domini!
thank you for calling
bullshit
she wasn't a witchwe embrace nature, not evil
The good old days: toasting marsh mallows over a burning witch.
They never burned witches in this country, they hanged them.
Whateverall I know is the persecution's going to start all over again, they keep pumping out inflammatory bullshit like this fucking movie
She <u>wasn't</u> a witch.
Whatever.
Finally got her back to sleep.
Nick, what you should do is get her back up and get her to a goddamn <u>doctor</u>.
Jesus, you don't think I know that? You don't think I've tried? She won't fucking <u>go</u> she won't leave this place.
She's off her fucking rocker
I know!
I'm sorry.
Yeah, I know. It's...alright. We're all a little
a <u>lot</u>.
Heather.
Yeah.
Okay. Hypothetically.
Shoot.
You think....there could've been something up in those woods that Anna
it's not a could'vethere <u>was</u>, Nick. And it fucked up Anna, and did something to Domini, and it caused my father to die, and it's here <u>with</u> us in this place <u>now</u>. And I don't have one single idea in hell what's going to happen next, just that it's going to happen to one of us. And then the other. And then the other. It's going to get into our <u>brains</u>.
There's explanations. Rational explanations for everything that's happened. We'll drive ourselves crazy if we keep obsessing on supernatural whatifs.
That feels good. Lowerdown into my neck.
What?
I dunno it's anything. It's a name Anna's mentionedfrom her dreams.
Spare me.
Hey, chemicals, fear, sleep deprivationand a roundtheclock obsession with the occulthell've a recipe for a mindfuck.
We are being fucked with here, someone or something.
Domini.
Why in the world would <u>she</u>
why in the world would she just fly the coop in the first place?
Domini's the only logical explanation.
We're not dealing with fucking logic here!
I can't do it!
Don't! You're making me lose my grip.
Gothic runethe letter "S."
Or a blood blisteror a bruise.
Put 'em together that's a "k." James Kurth
or Lyme Disease or poison sumac, or God knows whatelse we could have picked up in the woods.
You <u>know</u> what we picked up in the woods
I should check on Anna.
Check the monitor, she's <u>fine</u>.
She's far from "fine."
You're needed herekeep watching
No. We <u>all</u> go.
Anna
fuck Anna!
"It's why the witch kills children."
I thought all witches were benign and good.
Not this one.
What the fuck's going on here?
Does she have marks, Nicklike the ones we have, that Domini had?
Why?
Does she, goddamnit??
Not that I've seenbut that has no meaningthat means nothing.
It's <u>possible</u> for chrissake
the marks appear, then you disappear. Like the little Kurth boy, like Domini, as soon as they come to full bloomand mine <u>are</u>!
Like a blueprint for disembowelment.
There are <u>other</u> explanations! She is not the goddamn witch, that's insane!
Then just give me one of your explanations that all three of us'll buy.
I don't....
The four of you really have too much spare fucking time on your hands, don't you?
And what's your excuse for being here?
Women miscarry all the
no.
What's that?
Hmm? I dunno. Chafing from the backpack, something.
That'd be up on your shoulder, maybe your lower back.
Then I have no idea.
What'd you see?
Motion. Stop there. Play it again.
For a blur?
There is something <u>there</u>don't ask, just trust me.
Cotter'll kill you.
He'll never know.
Twotoone he dusts the keyboard for fingerprints the second he gets back.
At least go drink it somewhere spilling it won't drive him to suicide.
Okay.
What is it you thought you saw on that tape?
Still working on it.
Elly Kedward?
No. Elly Kedward's not the problem here, I don't think. She was just a good oldfashioned white witch
Dad...?
What'd you say?
Are you alright?
....I don't know.
Jesus.
What?
That's the <u>reason</u>.
What?
It touched me, don't you see it now?
Slow it down, slow it down, whatever it is, we'll figure it out.
That's why she kills children.
I know, I know
You gonna be alright?
Sure. I'm sorry.
No big deal. I'm just trying to understand.
Get some more beer.
I think you closed the bar again. I'll have to go out.
Go to the store. When you get back, I'll try to make sense of it for you.
What're you afraid's going to happen?
That they'll start touching us inside our heads.
Ruins of the Rustin Parr house.
Guy who killed all the kids in the '40s.
What is all this shit?
We're doing dusktilldawn taping of all the places where there've been alleged Blair Witch "sightings" the Parr House, Coffin Rock, Tappy Creek.
Why?
See what turns upwhich I guarantee will be nothing. Some of the rest of the party are more hopeful
She got <u>paid</u>.
I thought the movie was bitchin'.
Look at those marksjust like in the movie.
Ancient runes
sacred and occult Scotch Tape.
Rusty Parr had the right idea on child care.
Oooh. Oooh.
Ah, Domini?
What?
You planning on sleeping out there?
Not planning on sleeping at all.
Ripped? They look like they were <u>bit</u> off.
Smells Like Teenage Spirit.
That's almost a year's worth of work! Scumbags! Oh, Jesus, Jesus....
At least you still have the tapes.
Pointless.
No. I don't think so.
What?
Why she kills children.
Someone want to tell me what's going on
and we brought it back with us!
Hold this.
What?
The wheel.
This is her equally ontherag boy friend, Nick Leavitt
turn the camera off
they're from UMass, doing some kind of fucking term paper
Graduate Thesis
about the Witch
Cotter
a Wiccan
turn the goddamn camera off!
We're not making Blair Witch II here.
I am.
Cotter?
I'm not finished.
We're all going to be if you don't hit the brakes.
You drive, I'll handle the video, okay?
Fine.
What're you doing?
This isn't about us.
Right. And the check's in the mail.
Was it <u>every</u> day or just semi weekly you got your ass kicked as a kid?
<u>Now</u> you can bring the vehicle to a stop: there on the left.
Either way, maybe there's a book in it, and they both make a ton of money.
It's a <u>serious</u> sociological study.
What?
Look over there.
Okay, but
now there.
They're making "Blair Witch II," too.
No problem, just give us 'til dawn and we're gone.
<u>What</u>?
Look, guys, we're cold, we're tired we're <u>shook</u>we just want to get out of here as soon as there's light. We saw something up at Coffin Rock today
How're the cameras doing?
Due for a reload and battery check. I'll get on it.
and none of 'em were mine! Iamsofucked, Iamsofucked where the hell was everybody???
Asleep
what happened to the goddamn "Witchwatch??"
I dunno, I just woke up
Cotter, I think she's right. Why would those guys go to all the trouble of stealing the camera and all this other stuff and leave the tapes?
Spite.
They were making a movieif they were going to steal anything it'd be <u>just</u> the tapes, to see if we had anything they didn't.
403 41st Street, kids: home.
I dunno it's safe to even get out of the car.
By day? No sweat.
Let's get inside.
First enormous brick warehouse on your right.
Just one lock in this neighbor hood?
All I need
Running a junk yard.
A Cyber Entrepreneurialship.
There's four other angles, man, we haven't even
great: we can watch Domini sleep for hoursor, shit, maybe if we stay at it for a couple of days, maybe a deer'll dash by!
What
oh, Jesus
whatever you want, no problem
still go see the OB in the morning
You wanna keep it down, she's trying to sleep.
Sorry, I didn't think we were making that much noise.
It's not a real "funny" time for us, okay?
Well, she's got to be <u>somewhere</u> here.
No one's been in or out since you left. Would've heard the dogs.
How much of that stuff you guys been smoking?
Enough to keep sane.
Enough to make shapes and shadows in the dark into something else.
Chrissake: why <u>any</u> of this?
I think it's time to get out of here.
It's Domini, it's not Domini, I don't careall I know is <u>I'm</u> not dealing with something<u>anything</u> snuffing me in my sleep. I want to do what we did in the woods surveillance of this whole place 24/7, with somebody monitoring those cameras every second. There's something, somebody here, I want to see 'em coming.
I thought all your equipment got stolen.
All the shit that was worth anything, yes. You'd be amazed, though, what you can get free on the 'net.
Just hold on!
I can't!
Just let it go, I've got you!
What're you nuts
it's less than four feet, just
shit!!!
What?
One of the printers.
Why was <u>she</u> exempted, Nick?
Maybe whatever they are, they just haven't appeared yet on her?
thank you, Heather Arendtand arend't we glad you're herea real witch
fuckin' A right
And let it be knownbefore we even get to Burkittsvilleit's gonna be an eighteen thousand times better moviefor half the cost
which'd be about ten bucks
and unlike the first one, every second of it's gonna be true! "Blair Witch: The Real Story!"
You're a complete fucking idiot, aren't you?
Hey, Mr. Graduate Fucking Thesis here was s'posed to be driving!
FromthemovieMaryBrown, Trailer Park Bible Psycho?
Oh, for chrissake, she was an actor.
I don't believe this.
I do.
I take it backshe <u>wasn't</u> an actor. She's a nutjob.
That's what Josh and Mike said.
Shutup.
You're not only an idiot, you're a goddamn <u>child</u>.
Why does everyone here but me have have a gigantic stick up their ass?
Nice tent.
Hadn't even opened the thing since Cub scouts.
Never would've guessed.
So where the hell am I going to sleep?
If you're looking at me, look elsewhere.
I've got the Panasonic Portable DVD player.
What movies?
Ask me what I don't have.
What I never could figure about the movie?
What?
Three people: two guys, a girl sleeping in the same motel room, the same tent night after night.
Yeah?
No fucking.
No.
Made no sense. Scared out of their minds, and the greatest stress reliever in creation right at their fingertips. Nada.
No sense at all. I'm a little stressed.
Try a long walk.
We should be so lucky.
Buttugly owl.
What're you, crazy??
What're you, nuts?
Get <u>out</u> of here!
What're you doing with all this shit?
yeah, a hand or something
coming out of the water
Me, too.
Hey, I got a whole editing suite in my loftmore the fucking merrier.
What about night?
Not a great idea. Especially 'cross the street.
Used to be a meatpacking plant. Slaughter on the ground floor carcasses schlepped up on this thing for dissection and grinding and
Cotter: shut up.
What?
Get inside quick, they'll stop.
Too busy eating us?
Just go.
Mi casa y su casa!
Su casa y shito holeo.
Hey, hon'this is what pays the rent and tuition.
English.
I spend a lot of time on eBay. Buying, sellingsometimes buying then reselling at substantial markup, sometimes just selling crap I find in the street.
Whatta you got, telescopic vision?
Still don't see it
Where <u>is</u> it?
I got the tape enhancedand I managed to sleaze a photo blowup. Jesus, he's gonna kill me when he finds out about the camera.
Gimme it!
Where's Domini?
My room, asleep, last I checked.
Fire escape??
Don't have one.
She would've had to have a key, anyway, to lock the deadbolt behind her.
Well, she got out of here <u>some</u> how because she's not here!!
Same trees. They took Elly Kedward out to the same kind of trees.
I look and look in the tree, all I ever see, he's always there watching, that stupid owl, over and over
Cotter, where can I get online?
anywhere, anywhere, all up and live, all the timefucking owl
Cotter?
Fucking owl!
You think it's possible the tree in the Parr foundation is the same one they tied Elly Kedward to?
No ideagoddamitt!
Boy Kurth.
Heather, does that look like Domini there?
Where?
Down there in the Park.
Not the place you want to announce your arrival.
How's she going to know where to
things got a way of finding <u>you</u> here.
It's <u>freezing</u>.
Next time try putting on shoes
What the fuck??
I don't know.
The moon trying to shoot down through all these treescan make things funky
I saw what I saw.
Yeah. Me too.
The cart they brought Elly Kedward into the woods with
into the <u>Black</u> <u>Hills</u> with200 something miles from here
Domini!
Be it still alive, James?
<u>What</u>
I'd strongly advise you to join us
before you lose your emotional lunch.
Nobody's going anywhere
hell, I don't think I'm ever leaving this place again
one of us, all of usI have no ideabrought whatever this thing is back here. We're not going to go out there and spread it around like Typhoid Mary. We're gonna figure it out, we're gonna bring a goddamn <u>end</u> to it.
That's a "j."
For "James?"
Goes right along with these two.
Who?
No one ever comes here.
f'chrissake, Heather, it's not like the two of us are gonna doze off he leaves for two seconds
I don't trust anybody, not even me, anymore
shhhh! #5, there's something up there!
it's the "Blair Witch Cult"a copy some pages fromone of them on the site must've gotten my message
who?
Doesn't sayit's just these pages.
Remember....what Mary Brown said she could see the witch's hands on my face, her mouth sucking on mine.
Anna's the witch.
You want a hand?
I want amphetamines.
Beer and weed is what I've got.
Both. Now.
So, I hear you're from New Mexico!
Sometimes.
last thing I remember were those four clowns shooting the movie
yeah, the goddamn stoners! Who you think stole the stuff!?
<u>One</u> set. Everything from midnight on
no, I think they're all in there.
How'd you know they were
hunch. Just sort've saw 'em there.
My assyou saw those four fucking baboons put 'em there!
No.
I don't think it was them.
Oh, who did then? Blair Witch? Snatching equipment to make her own sequel?
I don't know yet.
Well, please keep me fucking informed!
Hey, <u>chill</u>, man
there's something <u>here</u>, Nick
Something happened to Anna in Burkittsville, in the woods, I don't know.
What? That made her lose the baby?
Something. Someone.
This is a little nuts.
Turn the tapes back on.
Fine.
Does it hurt?
Like hell. Play the goddamn tape.
There, what? I didn't see anything.
Back it up, rewind, whatever you call it.
Fine.
Okay, a blur.
Can you zoom it or something, make it real close, real big?
I'm the ebay Boy, remember? I can't exactly afford that kind of equipment.
Who do you know who can? Where do we go?
Can't you like just divine it?
If I could do that, I'd be at the goddamn racetrack, not here.
I got a friend at a Lab. I could get the whole thing blownup, enhanced
go!
Four in the morning?
So lemme see it.
Just let me get my coat offI had eight cups of coffee, I'm wired for sound here.
The witch?
It's not about witches, goddamnit!
You're gonna owe me the rest of your life, bud.
I know, I know.
Beta Cam's still coming back tomorrow, right?
Absolutely.
<u>Before</u> 5:00
hours before
Christ, they find out I let you have it for the weekend
no one'll ever know.
<u>This</u> is what you wanted enhanced?
Yeah.
You mind me asking: why the fuck?
The, uh, blur there.
Looks like a rope.
I know you're in there, you piece of shit!
You have to go.
Not until I get that Beta Cam back! We're both in a world of shit here!!
I can't.
It's my fucking <u>job</u>, man!!
I can't let you in.
Cheery little place.
It's like traveling back in time.
Whatzernamethe "psychic" Anna hired.
Domini. Domini Von Teer.
So says her website.
She <u>is</u>she's helped solve a bunch of murders: Arizona, New Mexico
Jesus.
What?
That's not whatzernameit's Mary Brown.
No, the kids were actors, the townspeople were real. Her, the Sheriff, the Convenience Store guy
whatever; that's her.
<u>myth</u>
doesn't just pop out of thin air. It spins off of real events. At some point there <u>was</u> a Blair Witch
or one huge attack of group hysteria.
No.
You sure?
<u>Yes</u>.
chalked just hours ago by ancient adolescents. It's called vandalism.
What is <u>this</u>?
That's a sapling<u>this</u> mother's got to be three hundred years old, minimum.
It's a <u>sketch</u>, Annait's not to scale cartography; the tree was not the kids' focus
do you <u>agree</u> it's that <u>old</u>, Nick?
Okay, fine, whatever, yesit's an <u>old</u> tree.
brother of Rustin Parr's maternal grandfather, somewhere after 1858
<u>whoever</u>they built an entire house <u>around</u> a <u>tree</u>. Sticking up right through the living room. Somebody like to explain that to me?
The rest of the family was crazy as Rusty Parr.
Oh, <u>c'mon</u>even you have to admit this is weird.
No<u>this</u> is weird.
Your parents didn't have a <u>bigger</u> one?
It was <u>free</u>I recall that was the chief selling point for you.
No offense, sweetheart: fuck you.
You know, Nick, you've been something of a total asshole the past few days.
Pardon me, I've had a few things on my mindlike putting this safari together.
Like how weirdedout you are with this pregnancy thing.
Let's just leave it at: it was one hell of a surprise.
You don't want it though.
Your body, your call.
Why is there no "our" here?
Could we take this up laterlike indoors, without half the world listening?
You feel no need to get married or anything.
Anna
fine, later, fine.
What?
You said the name "James."
I don't know.
Baby names?
I don't know. Nightmare.
You want me to scooch over next to you?
Yes.
or someone
scared the living shit out of us.
This is a goddamn disaster. Let's just pack it up and go.
I want to see the tapes.
And what do you possibly think you're going to fucking see there?
No idea. But if that's all we've got left
I think we get the gist.
We've looked at half of one tape.
For once could you just sit down, shut up, and give something a <u>chance</u>?
We're leavingcase dismissed for lack of evidence. Maybe on the ride home we can figure how the fuck we're going to graduate with no thesis.
I'm not going anywhere, 'til
bullshit!
now c'mon!
Get your goddamn
We'll stay overnight, get a hotel
Cotter's
What can I get you?
Sleep.
Nothing. I dunno
you should get back into bed.
I guess, yeah.
Was that you laughing?
What?
Just now?
No.
Just...try and go back to sleep.
I get dreams. I don't like 'em.
What'd you dream?
Little boys. Looking up my skirt as I danced. Giggling.
Here.
I don't know what it is, but there is something <u>happening</u> here, and it's starting to scare the living shit out me, and look, I'm just <u>not</u> going to argue the point anymoreyou want to stay here, stay, but I've got to get the fuck out of here, and I'm begging you to come <u>with</u> me.
I can't.
Then I'm going
no, you're not. You love me too much. You don't want to see them kill me.
I want to see something!
Whatever you want.
The clothestake 'em off I want to see every square inch
no, what's wrong with you?
Are you marked like this??
Why?
I see for proof positive you're the goddamn witch
like you hurt the baby
what're you saying?? I didn't have anything to do with
Oh, Jesus, no
fuck your bullshit pieties! You were the next to die, asshole!
Shit? This is from "Josh's Blair Witch Mix," man!
Down or offyou're giving me a migraine.
Christ.
Just trying to set the mood for the missionget the "feeling."
Only thing I'm feeling is homicidal.
The bitchedout babe in back here is one Anna Tassiowe met one dark and stormy night in a Blair Witch chat room, we all did
Christ almighty
but she was nicer thensweeter she hadn't vomited twice already like today
it's called "morning sickness," asshole
a six week bun in the oven
'Thought those all got stolen.
Guess they thought it was safe to put some up again.
Think again.
Why are we here?
She emailed me yesterday this is where we should meet her.
Who?
What's she look like?
No idea, just talked to her on the 'Netshe's very good.
how old?
I dunno, probably right up there, based on her resume.
Then there she blows.
"The Voiiiiices made him do it."
The Witch's voice.
Where they found the backpacks and all the film a year later.
Buried deep under 200 years worth of soil, ash, and compost layers.
Oak?
No. What's it doing here in the middle of the foundation?
Yeah, so?
So whoever built this
This is funny?? This is tens of thousands of fucking dollars! You pricks! I'll see you in fucking court!!
Not the only things missing, Nick.
nothing left to play 'em on, honey.
Oh, sorry, right.
You can be goddamn sure, though, I'm going to be looking at every second of 'em when I get back to BaltimoreI get proof who stole my shit and I call the cops!
We're ticketed to fly back from Baltimore, anyway.
Druid Hill Park.
That's a joke?
That's its name. A pastoral glade gamboling with crackheads and homeless and averaging at least one homicide a week.
Looks like business is booming.
There's some stuff that's hard to part with. Editing's stuff's up there
the witch kills children
I haven't killed any
Hang you like the witch you are, unless
Nick!!
Why?
Any number of reasonspick one, it's as good as the other.
I was out hiking, camping the past two daysthat's what did it<u>I</u> killed it
doubtful, Mrs. Leavitt. The main thing to remember is, whatever the reason, it was for the best it meant something was wrong.
Something was wrong.
Look, this is not my field of expertise. You seem stabilized, but why take any chances? Let's keep you overnight and have the Staff obstetrician do a followup tomorrow.
I guess
No!
Mrs. Leavitt
I'm not staying here!
Let's talk to your husband
he's not my husband!
Domini?
Yes.
What're you doing there?
Trying to find the energy.
Inside the grave?
To stand upI'm exhausted. Been on the road since yesterday.
Her father's Sheriff of Taos County.
Sometimes. Where are we going?
stop it! Stop talking about it! I'm gonna freak!
I just wanna go <u>home</u>.
and if she ever did
which she may have
or incredibly fucking naive.
Hey, folklore
Why don't you just cut it down and count the goddamn ringswho <u>cares</u>?
Because it means the tree is older than the house.
'Give you a hand. I think my sleep for the night just ended.
Join the club.
I need you to talk to me, talk to me about the dreamsabout James, the other boys.
I don't...I don't understand them myself.
Try, please, Anna
bad boys, mean boys, <u>cowardly</u> boysjust like Domini.
What do you mean?
A coward too. That's why she had to go.
What happened to her, where did she go?
Don't knowjust that she was afraid
Anna
What, are you alright?
My eye, is there something in my eye?
Not that I can see.
Closer. Lift the lid and look it hurts.
No.
Closer.
You killed Domini, didn't you, witch??
I'm not a witch, you're all crazy!
Jamie Kurth, Jonathan Edmunds
my God, Nick???
Please! Please...? I haven't done anything.
Bullshit! Talk!
Nick!!
What  ?
You've been bitten by a vampire. We've got to try and burn out the venom, just like a rattlesnake bite 
Who are you people?
My name is Abraham Whistler. This is Blade. As for our little homunculus here 
So what do you use, then? A stake?
Some of the old wives' tales are true  they're severely allergic to silver, various types of wood. Feed them garlic and they'll go into anaphylactic shock 
Consider it a parting gift. Vampire mace  silver nitrate, essence of garlic.
So that's it? You guys just patch me up and send me on my way?
There is one other thing. I'd buy yourself a gun if I were you. If you start becoming sensitive to the daylight, if you start becoming thirsty regardless of much you've had to drink  then I suggest you take that gun and use it on yourself. Better that, than the alternative.
We keep in radio contact.
You've been listening in the whole time?
You think I'd let him run loose without a chaperone? Blade ferrets their ratholes out, I map them. Then we blow them all to kingdom come.
Whistler!
Go on, I'll be fine!
Why didn't you tell me the truth about him?
We weren't sure we could trust you.
Blade's unique, you know. A one in a billion anomaly. He can withstand sunlight, garlic, even silver. But he still has the Thirst.
What happens if he doesn't take the serum?
The Thirst overcomes him, just like the others. It's not something he can control. The problem is, time's running out. His body's starting to reject the serum. And so far, all my efforts to find a cure have ended in failure 
No offense, Whistler, but you're not exactly working with state of the art equipment here. You might have missed something.
Which is why you're here. We could use someone with your experience.
Why do you hunt them?
Habit, mostly, just like this.
I had a family once  a wife, three daughters. Then a drifter named Deacon Frost came calling one evening 
He killed them?
Eventually. He toyed with them first. He made me choose, do you understand? Which order they would die in 
How did you escape?
I didn't. He was cruel enough to let me live. Even gave me a souvenir to remember him by.
And now you're using Blade to exact your revenge?
Frost's bodycount keeps rising, and I'm not getting any younger, am I?
I wouldn't go in there if I were you. It's best to leave him alone when he's like this.
I'll take my chances.
All right, let's start with the basics  why do vampires need to drink blood?
Their own blood can't sustain hemoglobin.
Then vampirism is a genetic defect, just like Hemolytic anemia?
Basically you'd have to rewrite the victim's DNA, alter it so that the DNA will produce proteins capable of generating hemoglobin.
How?
With a retrovirus. It's injected into the bone marrow cells, it causes the host's DNA to mutate. They've been using them to treat Sicklecell anemia.
On me, yes. On Blade, I'm not so sure  The problem is, Blade didn't contract the vampire virus from a bite like I did. He was born with it. The irony is, I could probably cure every vampire but him.
Then we're back to square one, aren't we? Sooner or later, the Thirst always wins.
What happened to the power?
I don't know, but the backup generator should've kicked in.
How many of you are there?
A few thousand scattered about the globe. In the past, we've had to restrict our numbers for fear of discovery. That won't be necessary after tonight.
What happens then?
The Blood Tide. Our longprophesied holy war against the humans. There's a force, you see  a spirit that exists in our blood. I've discovered a way to invoke it.
LaMagra 
That's right. The answers were there all along, of course, scribbled down in the forgotten languages of my kind. Waiting for someone with the patience to decipher them. My elders were foolish enough to dismiss them as wives tales. But I knew better. Imagine my surprise when Blade turned out to be the key which would set that force free.
LaMagra isn't a physical being. He's a spirit, requiring a flesh and blood host in order to manifest himself.
You.
Who better to usher in the Blood Tide?
There's no need for any of this. Your condition can be treated. Whistler and I were working on a cure when 
What makes you think we want to be cured? Blood is only part of the equation. The hunt, the killing, that's what the Thirst is really about.
But you use blood banks 
Only as a last resort. Preserved blood is inferior. There's no flavor left to it, no life. Fortunately, I've found a way around that particular obstacle.
You're a monster.
Why? Because we live at another species' expense? Your people farm cattle and veal, don't they? Fattening them up with steroids? It's called evolution, Doctor. Survival of the fittest.
Blade 
You're wasting your breath, woman. He can't hear you now. It's the Thirst, you see? It already has him in its grip.
I was wrong about you, Blade. You were never one of us. You're a traitor to your race.
Get away from him!
Blade. Once again, our interests have fallen victim to his ridiculous crusade. He must be destroyed.
You're wrong, Dragonetti.
The Day Walker represents a unique opportunity. We'd be fools to waste it by killing him.
Deacon Frost. You refuse to speak our language, you insult the House of Erebus by using the humans' guttertongue, have you no respect for tradition?
Why should I respect something which has outlived its purpose?
I see. And what would you have us do with this "halfbreed"?
Study him. Unlock the secrets of his DNA. He's the key we've been looking for.
He is an abomination!
The shadows suit us, Frost. We've existed this way for thousands of years. Who are you to challenge our ways?
Someone who's sick of living off scraps. The coming age belongs to us, not the humans! When the final war between our races comes, who do you want leading the charge?
These archives are restricted to members of the House of Erebus.
Please. You and the other Elders wouldn't know what to do with these texts if your lives depended on it. Which, of course, they do.
You're wasting your time, Frost. Far greater scholars than you have tried to decipher these words. Whatever secrets they hold have been lost.
Perhaps.
How do you like that? Right on time.
The other elders will never let you get away with this!
This isn't human blood.
Then what is it?
I don't know  Look at this blood smear 
The red blood cells are biconvex, which is theoretically impossible. They're hypochromic, there's virtually no hemoglobin in them. Look at the PMNs, they're binucleated, they should be mononucleated.
What about the chemistry panel?
Curtis, it's three in the morning. I'm really not in the mood for one of your practical jokes.
It's not a joke. I've got the stiff sitting in the morgue right now  look, just come up and see him, okay? Five minutes, that's all I ask.
I thought you promised to give me some distance?
This is purely professional curiosity, Karen, I swear.
Five minutes, not a second more. And I don't want to hear a word about "us".
No problem.
You haven't started in on the internal organs?
Just the blood sample from the pericardial sac.
That's weird 
What?
He looks different now, burns are less extreme, some of these wounds have closed up 
Tell me something, honestly, you ever have second thoughts about us?
Sometimes 
 but then I remember what an asshole you were and I'm snapped back to reality.
Jesus, Karen, you're breaking my heart here 
But you  died 
Deacon brought me back.
Fight him 
Please 
Listen to your father, Jason. It's going to be a better world.
How could you be a part of this?
These are my people now. I'm one of them.
You don't have to be.
You don't understand. I've killed, I've hunted, and I've enjoyed it.
I wish you could see the world as I do. Deacon opened my eyes. There's no turning back from that.
I don't believe that.
You will. Time is on our side. Sooner or later, the Thirst always wins.
How's it going, Kam?
You're a week early.
I was in the neighborhood.
Whistler says I'm building up a resistance to it.
I was afraid that might happen.
Maybe it's time to start exploring other alternatives.
There's only one alternative to the serum.
You shouldn't be here.
I'm sorry, I 
 he's a vampire.
You're joking 
Why?
Because you're tainted. The venom's still inside you. You could still turn on us.
What happens then?
And you honestly expect me to believe all this?
I don't care what you believe. I saved your life once, I don't plan on making a habit of it. You want my advice, you'll be out of the city by nightfall. If you're stupid enough to stay, that's your business.
I can't just leave. I have a life here, a career 
Not anymore. You've seen one of them. You won't be allowed to live after that.
I can go to the police. I have blood samples back at the hospital. I can show them.
Do it. You'll be dead before you can file the complaint.
That's ridiculous! No one's that powerful.
How did you know?
Figured they'd send someone after you. Thought I'd wait around and see who showed up.
You used me as bait?!
It worked, didn't it?
But, he could've 
He didn't. Get over it.
But he's a policeman 
He's a familiar. A human who works for the vampires. See this mark?
That's a glyph, kind of like a vampire cattle brand. That means Officer Friendly here is someone's property. Any of the other vampire's try to bleed him, they'll have to answer to Friendly's owner  This glyph belongs to Deacon Frost. We've been tracking him for a while now 
Why in God's name would anyone want to work for them?
Because they're vampire wannabes. If they're loyal, if they prove themselves, then their masters will turn them.
And that's a good thing?
For some. Live forever, never get old. The ultimate high.
What are you doing?!
Preventive medicine.
You can't do this, he's human, it's murder.
It's war, now get the fuck out of the way!
Look, if what you say is true, if there's a chance I could turn into one of them, then I've got no choice, do I? I have to work with you. I need to learn everything I can about them. It's the only way I'll be able to find a cure for myself.
There is no cure.
You don't know that.
What are you looking at?
What do you see here?
Graffiti 
Look closer.
I know this place  it's a blood bank.
Owned by vampires. There's one of these in every major city, and just like Domino's, they always deliver. You telling me you're ready to walk through that door?
You let him go  An hour ago you were ready to kill a man for less, this one didn't even talk.
He will.
Looks like we hit paydirt. This place is crawling with them. See the valets over there? They're vampires. So is the doorman.
How can you tell?
The way they move, they way they smell 
So many of them  I still can't believe they're real.
There are worse things than vampires out there.
Like what?
Like me.
What is this place?
Some kind of archive 
Isn't this all a little hightech? I thought vampires were more into cobwebs and coffins.
You've been watching too much TV. They've got their claws sunk into everything  finance, real estate, politics. Probably own half of Downtown.
You're hurt 
Nothing that won't heal by dawn.
What am I injecting you with?
Serum  it's a human hemoglobin substitute.
It's dark in here.
You get used to the darkness.
I can't close my eyes without hearing her scream.
Those aren't real memories. No one has that kind of recall.
I do. I remember from day one. People staring at me, sensing I was different. Watching the fear grow in their eyes, knowing in their hearts I wasn't human.
If you're not human, then why do you bleed like us? I've seen vampire blood, you don't have it running through your veins.
Just get out of here.
Blade 
I made a trip to the hospital last night, borrowed some equipment.
For your miracle cure?
Is he sick?
Cancer.
You care about him, don't you?
We've got a good arrangement, that's all. Whistler makes the weapons, I use them, the vampires die  end of story.
My mother used to say that a cold heart is a dead heart.
Your mother sounds like a Hallmark greeting card.
Any progress?
Some. It's been slow 
You don't look so good.
I'm just tired, that's all. We've been up all night.
For what it's worth, I'm sorry.
You make it sound like I'm already dead.
Are you all right?
I've been better 
How long have we been driving?
I don't know. I woke up just before you did 
Is it bad?
We get out of this alive, maybe I'll take that miracle cure of yours.
It won't work on you.
What are you talking about?
Get out of here 
I'm not leaving without you.
You don't understand. The Thirst 
 tearing me  apart.
I know. Take some of my blood.
No 
It's the only way. You know that. We'll never get out of here alive if you don't.
I can't  I won't be able to stop 
Yes you will. The human side of you is stronger. I know it is.
I never imagined I'd be so happy to see the sun rise  It's over, isn't it?
For them. But for me 
Is something wrong, my friend?
You're blind 
There are other ways to see. Sit.
Hold out your hands.
I didn't come here to get my palms read. I need something translated.
Show me.
This is an old tongue, from an old world. It concerns LaMagra.
Who is LaMagra?
The vampire God. This speaks of His return.
The Day Walker's blood is a disparador  a trigger, you see? For LaMagra's return. One need only consume it and the spirit of his ancestors will settle upon him. "And the Sleeper will rise from the shadows anew, cleansing the world in a Tide of Blood."
"The Blood Tide".
Yes. The vampire apocalypse. It is said that all who feel its taint will succumb to the Thirst.
How do I stop it?
I am tired. Dawn is coming.
But I just got here 
You've been here longer than you think.
Beautiful day, isn't it?
How can you be out here?
I dabble in pharmaceuticals, medical research. We've developed a type of sunblocker using octyl salicylate, a few others things.
It's not very effective in direct sunlight, but it's a start. The goal, of course, is to be like you, "the Daywalker".
I don't buy it.
Why not? The future of our race runs through your bloodstream. You've got the best of both worlds, Blade. All of our strengths and none of our weaknesses.
Maybe I don't see it that way.
Oh, so it's back to pretending we're human again, is it? Spare me the Uncle Tom routine. You can't keep denying what you are. You're one of us, Blade. You always have been.
You're wrong.
Am I? You think the humans will ever accept a halfbreed like you? They can't. They're afraid of you. The humans fear us because we're superior. They fear us because in their hearts they know their race has become obsolete.
The pause that refreshes  Care for some? Smells good, doesn't it? Pungent, with just an irrepressible hint of iron.
Pass.
You sure now? I bled a newborn for this. You won't find a drink that's sweeter.
You're not going anywhere.
Watch me.
No longer.
Frost!!!
Who dies first?
Take him.
Guess you're not quite as invulnerable as you thought.
You're wrong  a few minutes more, and my transition will be complete. Even your sword won't be able to affect me then.
You don't have a few minutes, Frost.
You're too human, Blade.
It's because I'm human that I can do this.
Whistler!
Are we bringing home strays now?
She's been bitten.
You should've killed her, then.
She hasn't turned yet. You can help her.
I had to increase the dose. You're building up a resistance to the serum 
Just do it, old man.
Stupidity.
Maybe not. I did some checking, she's a hematologist. Knowledge like that might come in handy.
It's not worth the risk. We can't trust her.
Get in. Youre leaving.
Wait.
What took you so long?
Don't even start, old man.
Going somewhere?
China Town. I need more serum. What's all this?
Don't try to talk 
Listen. You have to  finish me off. You don't want me coming back.
No, we can treat the wounds 
Whistler, I 
I know. Just be quick about it, will you? Do it right.
Tell me something, Skid 
Scud.
Whatever  What'd you do to the Charger?
The pimpmobile? Just made a few after market modifications. Nitrousoxide injection system, forged aluminum pistons and crankshaft, higher flowing fuel pump.
Gave it a more aggressive exhaust profile ramping.
Fuck yeah. Whole package'll crank this betty up another threehundred horsepower.
And you'll burn the damn thing out before your next fucking oil change.
Where'd you dig up this shitbird anyway?
Look, what's your problem?
Hey, you think I don't know what's at stake here? We practically compromised our whole operation to save your puckered old ass! And for what?
Our operation?! Our operation?! I built this operation, you fucking turd stain.
This whole deal's giving me a serious case of the buttwillies.
Look, kid, they obviously found your base of operations. If it was a trap, why flip their dicks by announcing themselves?
The hell are you fiddling with there?
Tweaked the phosphor rod, modified the collimated beam, wanna concentrate the light, get something like a UV laser going.
You're wasting your time, already been tried.
Yeah, but you didn't have the Scudster working on it, did you?
Nope. Back then we did not.
So how long have you known Blade, anyway?
Going on twenty years now.
Blade doesn't talk about the old days much.
Blade doesn't talk about anything much. What about you, though?
Pretty.
I was backpacking. Hooked up with these two chicks who were off to see the Burning Man festival. We were gonna take "E", have ourselves a little freeball out in the desert. You know the riff, "Dear Penthouse, I never thought this would happen to me, but "
What about you? You're not coming?
After last night? Dude, I'm a lover, not a fighter.
Yeah, your little cootchie knew.
You little shit. When did they get to you?
Back when Blade had me hunting down your puckered old ass. What's up with your hair, anyway? Fucking Willie Nelson lookalike?
I see from your questionnaire that you don't have any immediate next of kin?
Not that I'm in contact with.
Nobody to call in case of an emergency?
No  Does that mean I can't be a donor?
It depends. We came up with some unusual results on your blood test.
Your blood has a very rare phenotype, one that's quite valuable to people like us.
Us? What are you talking about?
Yes?
They've made contact with the Reapers.
Any casualties?
Two so far.
An inevitability, I suppose. Nyssa was not among them, I trust.
No. This is a dangerous game, you're playing, Damaskinos.
Any game worthy of being played is. One must be patient. In this way, I have outlived my enemies. All of them.
You worry too much, Stevens. I have assurance from our friend inside that events are unfolding as scripted.
As scripted? You've already lost two of your own. How many more are you willing to sacrifice?
His name is Jared Nomak.
Thiavolos, as we used to say in Greece. The Devil. Pure Thirst. Nothing more. He was born a vampire, but he is an anomaly. Like you. Unlike the rest of us, however, he feeds on not just humans, but vampires as well.
I would hate to think you were losing your perspective. Who do you think God favors in the web? The spider or the fly?
Nomak said something to Blade in Greek. Athelfiki singenia ex amato. Where did he learn that?
From his father, of course.
You experimented on your own, son?
We're locked in.
Are you insane? He'll kill us both!
Maybe it's better that way.
Hey, hey! The fuck you doing?!
Getting your attention, Paco.
Well you've got it, warmblood. Now what the fuck are you gonna do with it?
Oh yeah? Like how little? In case you hadn't noticed, we lost two men while you were out farting around.
You need to ratchet those 'nads of yours down a few notches, paco.
Listen, hillbilly, you are a cunthair away from cowboy heaven.
Ain't no thing but a chicken wing, buttercup.
We want to attract them, not scare them off.
Yeah, but you fangs can see in the dark. What am I supposed to do?
What the fuck you doing?
Ain't nobody here but you and me, chicken wing. I'd say this is as good a time as any to settle up.
You got something in mind, Blade?
Ultrarapid detox. They use it on heroin addicts, make 'em go coldturkey in one night.
Gonna try and OD Whistler on a retroviral cure.
I don't know about this, man 
Motion sensors. Looks like Zone Three.
Human?
So you're going to do this?
Keep your friends close and your enemies closer. Isn't that how the saying goes?
What's going on?
He was here. Watching us.
Nomak?
He wants us to know he's hunting us now.
Kiss your ass goodbye, Reinhardt.
You're wasting your time, Blade. The flechette's a dud.
So that's down and dirty. Got anything to say for yourself?
Two things. One, I was on to you the moment they turned you. And two  I switched that dud of yours back with the real one.
It has been said, you may have enemies whom you hate, but not enemies whom you despise. Be proud of your enemy: then his success shall be yours, too. In that regard, I should thank you.
For what?
You want me to hunt them for you.
Not alone.
The genetic material you spliced into Nomak  Where did you get it?
I should think that would be obvious at this point.
True, but thanks to you, we know his weakness. We can keep him contained. It's just a matter of time before we hunt him down.
Too bad you're out of it.
And why is that?
Revenge. That's what Nomak wanted all along. To pay back the people who created him.
And so will we.
Look, I care about the humans who are dying, not you, got it?
Spare me the race card, OJ. We're not going out into the sun. It's too risky.
You don't have a choice. You're just going to have to protect yourselves as best you can.
Must be hundreds of these skeletons here.
So?
So I think you people may have underestimated how many Reapers you're dealing with.
Put it back in park, Blade.
Thought you were dead.
Seems like there's a lot of that going around these days.
How do you feel?
Like a fucking heifer took a dump in my mouth.
You came back for me.
Did you think I wouldn't?
Took you long enough.
Let's just hope you've kicked the Thirst for good. I'll be watching you close. You start to backslide 
You put a bullet in my brain. Wouldn't expect anything else.
I agree. We play along for now, we might wind up learning something about how their world ticks.
Either that or feeding the worms.
What do you think?
Sounds like a plan.
What do you really think?
These guys are shitting bricks cause they're no longer on the top of the food chain. They're going to fuck us the first chance they get.
He's right. They'll smell that you're human. Stay here, watch our backs.
I don't like it.
I'm not giving you a choice, old man.
I thought you were supposed to be watching our backs.
Ran into a little Reaper trouble myself.
Where were you, Whistler?
I'll show you.
You ask me, you and Miss Muffet are getting a mite too cozy for my taste.
I wouldn't worry about it.
I am worrying. Seems to me, you're starting to get confused as to which side of the line you're standing on.
Pretty hollow words coming from a man who spent the last year running with the enemy.
What the hell is that supposed to mean?
It means I'm starting to wonder if the vampires still have their hooks in you. You've been acting strange ever since I gave you the cure. Reckless, quick to anger  You said it yourself, Whistler. Those vampires knew our defense system backwards and forwards. Where'd they get their intel?
Eau de suckhead. Tasty.
We'll split into three units. First team that makes contact wins the prize. Try to maintain radio silence from here on out.
Your security's for shit, kid.
Where the hell have you been?
Just out connecting a few dots.
What's your problem, Whistler?
Why don't you ask your girlfriend?
I did some checking on that Carter Stevens character. That familiar of theirs who claimed he was with the NIH? Turns out he used to work for them, but he doesn't anymore.
Then who does he work for?
Come on, Blade. Talk to me!
Blood...
What?
They tell bedtime stories about you. Blade the big, bad boogieman. Frankly, I'm disappointed. That you were willing to come along so easily, I mean. Without any assurances.
Why?
Survival.
Seems like he's doing me a favor, then.
You're missing the point. Their vampire victims don't die. They turn. They become carriers. If the Reapers continue unchecked, there could be thousands of them before the month is over. Do the math.
Two years.
Then they weren't created to go after your "patient zero".
No. They've been training to hunt you.
You've been training two years to take me out. Here I am, the big, bad vampire hunter. So do it.
What the hell are you doing, Blade?
We're going to be working as a unit, you people will be taking orders from me. So let's get it over with. I'll give you a free shot, Reinhardt.
Where to first?
The House of Pain.
This is our world you're entering. You may see things  feeding. Just remember why you're here.
I haven't forgotten.
What is it with you people and pain?
We need it. Sensations are addictive and pain cuts the deepest. Tattoos, piercings, tribal scarring  because we regenerate, none of it's permanent. So we have to take it to the next level. To remind us we're alive.
What was that?
Nothing.
You're hurt.
I'll heal.
What about Nomak?
He escaped. You didn't tell me they were immune to silver and garlic.
I didn't know.
how long since he was bitten?
Minutes.
Recognize him?
From the surveillance footage in the bloodbank. He was one of the guard's Nomak attacked.
Which means he turned about seventytwo hours ago.
Right. So why is he dying? He doesn't appear to have any broken bones, no entry wounds of any kind  what's killing him?
Time.
No hemoglobin left. Their metabolisms are too fast. They burn out. That's why they're having to feed so often. Their systems are self destructing.
If that's true, what about Nomak? He's been alive longer than the others.
Nomak's different. He's the carrier. There's something driving him beyond the Thirst. Something we're missing.
I've never seen anything like this. The Reapers are as different from us as we are from you. It's almost as if the virus is rewiring their bodies, creating new, parasitic organs which consume the old ones.
Like cancer with a purpose.
Exactly. Look at the digestive system. It's been drastically simplified. Super charged. And this 
He's right about one thing. We do have to survive.
You don't have to hunt to do it.
Really? What are we supposed to do, then? Starve ourselves because we fee on others in order to live? What about that scumbag you just let off the hook? A nothing. A drugdealer. How do you justify saving people like that?
Blade. We've got six Reapers. They're all dead.
Fry 'em.
Blade.
Save it. I don't want to hear your words. Let's do this NOW!!!
Each day is a little life.
What?
"Each day is a little life. Every waking and rising a little birth, every fresh morning a little youth, every going to rest and sleep a little death."
Anyone else make it?
I don't think so.
Thank you.
For what?
It would've been easy for you to let me die back there today, but you didn't.
I wouldn't read too much into it.
You don't want to go there.
Why?
Because one of us is going to kill the other before this ends.
It doesn't have to be like that. We don't have to be enemies.
Get real. I was useful to Damaskinos as long as the hunt was still on. Now that it's over, all bets are off.
If that's true, then why'd you save me?
Why do you hate us so much?
I am a hunter. A weapon. It's what I do. It's in my blood.
Well it's in mine, too. I'm a pureblood. I wasn't turned. I was born this way. Just like you. Am I evil because I want to survive? What about a wolf? What about any predator?
You're hurting me.
Pain cuts the deepest, isn't that what you said?
It means "bloodbrother."
I don't understand.
How does it look?
Not good.
What do you want me to do?
I want to see the sun rise.
You come all the way down here to roust
I came all the way down here same as you did. Keep from gettin' killed. Happened to see those jarheads beatin' on a good collar Habla Ingles, Tomas?
Tom here's my ninth hard felon of the month. Six weeks he'll be sucking gas. In three years I'll be working Central Warrants. Jewboy Deputy D.A. over there wets his pants for fighters. Promised me the next spot he can wangle.
Impressive.
Wanna hear something more impressive? My first twenty fights were stumblebums handpicked by my manager. My girlfriend saw you fight a couple times over at the Olympic. Says maybe you <i>could</i> take me.
Whatta we do about the Mex?
We'll take 'em in the morning.
<i>You'll</i> take him.
He's half yours, partner.
He's all yours. And I'm not your partner.
Someday.
Smokey Huh?
Over the line, Smokey! I'm sorry. That's a foul.
Bullshit. Eight, Dude.
Excuse me! Mark it zero. Next frame.
Bullshit. Walter!
This is not Nam. This is bowling. There are rules.
Yeah, but
Am I wrong!?
Yeah, but I wasn't over. Gimme the marker, Dude, I'm marking it an eight.
I'm not
A world of pain.
Walter
YOU THINK I'M FUCKING AROUND HERE? MARK IT ZERO!!
All right! There it is! It's fucking zero!
You happy, you crazy fuck?
This is a league game, Smokey!
Who the hell is he?
I'll tell you who I am! I'm the guy who's gonna KICK YOUR PHONY GOLDBRICKING ASS!
Look at that fucking phony, Dude! Pretending to be a fucking millionaire!
I said out. Now.
Let me tell you something else. I've seen a lot of spinals, Dude, and this guy is a fake. A fucking goldbricker.
This guy fucking walks. I've never been more certain of anything in my life!
Stay away from me, mister!
Oh, shit.
You're bullies! Cowards, both of you!
Shit, sorry man.
Stay away from me! You bullies! You and these women! You won't leave a man his fucking balls!
Well sir, it's this rug I have, really tied the room together
You told Brandt on the phone, he told me. So where do I fit in?
Well they were looking for you, these two guys, they were trying to
I'll say it again, all right? You told Brandt. He told me. I know what happened. Yes? Yes?
So you know they were trying to piss on your rug
Did I urinate on your rug?
You mean, did you personally come and pee on my
Hello! Do you speak English? Parla usted Inglese? I'll say it again. Did I urinate on your rug?
Well no, like I said, Woo peed on the rug
Hello! Hello! So every timeI just want to understand this, sir every time a rug is micturated upon in this fair city, I have to compensate the
Come on, man, I'm not trying to scam anybody here, I'm just
You're just looking for a handout like every otherare you employed, Mr. Lebowski?
Look, let me explain something. I'm not Mr. Lebowski; you're Mr. Lebowski. I'm the Dude. So that's what you call me. That, or Duder. His Dudeness. Or El Duderino, if, you know, you're not into the whole brevity thing
Are you employed, sir?
Employed?
You don't go out and make a living dressed like that in the middle of a weekday.
Is this awhat day is this?
But I do work, so if you don't mind
No, look. I do mind. The Dude minds. This will not stand, ya know, this will not stand, man. I mean, if your wife owes
My wife is not the issue here. I hope that my wife will someday learn to live on her allowance, which is ample, but if she doesn't, sir, that will be her problem, not mine, just as your rug is your problem, just as every bum's lot in life is his own responsibility regardless of whom he chooses to blame. I didn't blame anyone for the loss of my legs, some chinaman in Korea took them from me but I went out and achieved anyway. I can't solve your problems, sir, only you can.
Ah fuck it.
Sure! Fuck it! That's your answer! Tattoo it on your forehead! Your answer to everything!
It's funny. I can look back on a life of achievement, on challenges met, competitors bested, obstacles overcome. I've accomplished more than most men, and without the use of my legs. What. . . What makes a man, Mr. Lebowski?
Dude.
Huh?
I don't know, sir.
Is it. . . is it, being prepared to do the right thing? Whatever the price? Isn't that what makes a man?
Sure. That and a pair of testicles.
Mind if I smoke a jay?
Bunny.
'Scuse me?
Bunny Lebowski. . . She is the light of my life. Are you surprised at my tears, sir?
Fuckin' A.
Strong men also cry. . . Strong men also cry.
Where's my goddamn money, you bum?!
Well weI don't
They did not receive the money, you nitwit! They did not receive the goddamn money. HER LIFE WAS IN YOUR HANDS!
C'mon man, who're you gonna believe? Those guys arewe dropped off the damn money
WHAT?!
Ithe royal we, you know, the editorialI dropped off the money, exactly as perLook, I've got certain information, certain things have come to light, and uh, has it ever occurred to you, man, that given the nature of all this new shit, that, uh, instead of running around blaming me, that this whole thing might just be, not, you know, not just such a simple, but uhyou know?
What in God's holy name are you blathering about?
I'll tell you what I'm blathering about! I got informationnew shit has come to light andshit, man! She kidnapped herself!
Well sure, look at it! Young trophy wife, I mean, in the parlance of our times, owes money all over town, including to known pornographers and that's cool, that's cool but I'm saying, she needs money, and of course they're gonna say they didn't get it 'cause she wants more, man, she's gotta feed the monkey, I mean hasn't that ever occurred to you...? Sir?
No. No Mr. Lebowski, that had not occurred to me.
Brandt, give him the envelope.
Well, okay, if you've already made out the check. Brandt is handing him a lettersized envelope which is distended by something inside.
Well, she's back. No thanks to you.
Where's the money, Lebowski?
We know the briefcase was empty, man. We know you kept the million bucks yourself.
Well, you have your story, I have mine. I say I entrusted the money to you, and you stole it.
Well? Aren't you?
Well. . . yeah.
All right, get out. Both of you.
Put me down, you son of a bitch!
Walter!
You monsters!
Help me put him back in his chair.
WHERE'S THE FUCKING MONEY, SHITHEAD!
It's uh, it's down there somewhere. Lemme take another look.
Dude, this is Smokey. Look, I don't wanna be a hardon about this, and I know it wasn't your fault, but I just thought it was fair to tell you that Gene and I will be submitting this to the League and asking them to set aside the round. Or maybe forfeit it to us
Shit!
so, like I say, just thought, you know, fair warning. Tell Walter.
Dude here.
Who is this?
Dude the Bagman. Where do you want us to go?
...Us? DUDE
Shut the fuck up. Hello?
Yeah?
Okay, listen
Dude here.
Okay, vee proceed. But only if there is no funny stuff.
Yeah.
So no funny stuff. Okay?
Hey, just tell me where the fuck you want us to go.
Dude.
You are approaching a vooden britch. When you cross it you srow ze bag from ze left vindow of ze moving kar. Do not slow down. Vee vatch you.
Another Caucasian, Gary.
Right, Dude.
Friends like these, huh Gary.
Huh? No, she, she hit me right here.
I understand sir. Could you slide your shorts down please?
This was, uh
Yeah man, it really tied the room together
This was a valued, uh.
What's your point, Walter?
There's no fucking reasonhere's my point, Dudethere's no fucking reason
What's the point ofwe all know who was at fault, so what the fuck are you talking about?
Huh? No! What the fuck are you talkingI'm notwe're talking about unchecked aggression here
Forget it, Donny. You're out of your element.
This Chinaman who peed on my rug, I can't go give him a bill so what the fuck are you talking about?
What the fuck are you talking about?! This Chinaman is not the issue! I'm talking about drawing a line in the sand, Dude. Across this line you do not, uhand also, Dude, Chinaman is not the preferred, uh. . . Asian American. Please.
Walter, this is not a guy who built the rail roads, here, this is a guy who peed on my
What the fuck are you
Walter, he peed on my rug
So who
Jeff Lebowski. Come on. This other Jeffrey Lebowski. The millionaire. He's gonna be easier to find anyway than these two, uh. these two . . . And he has the wealth, uh, the resources obviously, and there is no reason, no FUCKING reason, why his wife should go out and owe money and they pee on your rug. Am I wrong?
No, but
Am I wrong!
Yeah, but
Okay. That, uh.
Donny! Please!
Yeah, I could find this Lebowski guy
Way to go, Dude. If you will it, it is no dream.
You're fucking twenty minutes late. What the fuck is that?
Theodore Herzel.
Huh?
State of Israel. If you will it, Dude, it is no
What the fuck're you talking about? The carrier. What's in the fucking carrier?
Huh? OhCynthia's Pomeranian. Can't leave him home alone or he eats the furniture.
What the fuck are you
I'm saying, Cynthia's Pomeranian. I'm looking after it while Cynthia and Marty Ackerman are in Hawaii.
You brought a fucking Pomeranian bowling?
What do you mean "brought it bowling"? I didn't rent it shoes. I'm not buying it a fucking beer. He's not gonna take your fucking turn, Dude.
Hey, man, if my fucking exwife asked me to take care of her fucking dog while she and her boyfriend went to Honolulu, I'd tell her to go fuck herself. Why can't she board it?
First of all, Dude, you don't have an ex, secondly, it's a fucking show dog with fucking papers. You can't board it. It gets upset, its hair falls out.
Hey man
Fucking dog has papers, Dude.Over the line!
Come on Walter, it's justit's Smokey. So his toe slipped over a little, it's just a game.
This is a league game. This determines who enters the next round robin, am I wrong?
Smokey my friend, you're entering a world of pain.
Hey Walter
Mark that frame an eight, you're entering a world of pain.
Walter, they're calling the cops, put the piece away.
MARK IT ZERO!
Walter, you can't do that. These guys're like me, they're pacificists. Smokey was a conscientious objector.
You know Dude, I myself dabbled with pacifism at one point. Not in Nam, of course
And you know Smokey has emotional problems!
You meanbeyond pacifism?
He's fragile, man! He's very fragile!
Huh. I did not know that. Well, it's water under the bridge. And we do enter the next roundrobin, am I wrong?
No, you're not wrong
Am I wrong!
You're not wrong, Walter, you're just an asshole.
Okay then. We play Quintana and O'Brien next week. They'll be pushovers.
Just, just take it easy, Walter.
That's your answer to everything, Dude. And let me point outpacifism is notlook at our current situation with that camelfucker in Iraq pacifism is not something to hide behind.
Well, just take 't easy, man.
I'm perfectly calm, Dude.
Yeah? Wavin' a gun around?!
Calmer than you are.
Yeah, but he's a fucking pervert, Dude.
Huh?
The man is a sex offender. With a record. Spent six months in Chino for exposing himself to an eight yearold.
Huh.
When he moved down to Venice he had to go doortodoor to tell everyone he's a pederast.
Anyway. How much they offer you?
Twenty grand. And of course I still keep the rug.
Just for making the handoff?
Yeah.
...They gave Dude a beeper, so whenever these guys call
What if it's during a game?
I told him if it was during league play
I figure it's easy money, it's all pretty harmless. I mean she probably kidnapped herself.
Huh?
That...fucking...bitch!
It's all a goddamn fake. Like Lenin said, look for the person who will benefit. And you will, uh, you know, you'll, uh, you know what I'm trying to say
Those rich fucks! This whole fucking thing I did not watch my buddies die face down in the muck so that this fucking strumpet
I don't see any connection to Vietnam, Walter.
Well, there isn't a literal connection, Dude.
Walter, face it, there isn't any connection. It's your roll.
Have it your way. The point is
It's your roll
The fucking point is
It's your roll.
The what?
The ringer! The ringer, Dude! Have they called yet?
What the hell is this?
My dirty undies. Laundry, Dude. The whites.
Agh
Walter, I'm sure there's a reason you brought your dirty undies
Thaaaat's right, Dude. The weight. The ringer can't look empty.
Walterwhat the fuck are you thinking?
Well you're right, Dude, I got to thinking. I got to thinking why should we settle for a measly fucking twenty grand
We? What the fuck we? You said you just wanted to come along
My point, Dude, is why should we settle for twenty grand when we can keep the entire million. Am I wrong?
Yes you're wrong. This isn't a fucking game, Walter
It is a fucking game. You said so yourself, Dudeshe kidnapped herself
Oh shit. Walter.
What the fuck is going on there?
They hung up, Walter! You fucked it up! You fucked it up! Her life was in our hands!
Easy, Dude.
We're screwed now! We don't get shit and they're gonna kill her! We're fucked, Walter!
Dude, nothing is fucked. Come on. You're being very unDude. They'll call back. Look, she kidnapped her
Ya see? Nothing is fucked up here, Dude. Nothing is fucked. These guys are fucking amateurs
Shutup, Walter! Don't fucking say peep when I'm doing business here.
Okay Dude. Have it your way.
Yeah. So as long as we get her back, nobody's in a position to complain. And we keep the baksheesh.
Terrific, Walter. But you haven't told me how we get her back. Where is she?
That's the simple part, Dude. When we make the handoff, I grab the guy and beat it out of him.
...Huh?
Yeah. That's a great plan, Walter. That's fucking ingenious, if I understand it correctly. That's a Swiss fucking watch.
Thaaat's right, Dude. The beauty of this is its simplicity. If the plan gets too complex something always goes wrong. If there's one thing I learned in Nam
FUCK.
What'd he say? Where's the hand off?
There is no fucking handoff, Walter! At a wooden bridge we throw the money out of the car!
Huh?
We throw the money out of the moving car!
We can't do that, Dude. That fucks up our plan.
Well call them up and explain it to 'em, Walter! Your plan is so fucking simple, I'm sure they'd fucking understand it! That's the beauty of it Walter!
Wooden bridge, huh?
I'm throwing the money, Walter! We're not fucking around!
The bridge is coming up! Gimme the ringer, Dude! Chopchop!
Fuck that! I love you, Walter, but sooner or later you're gonna have to face the fact that you're a goddamn moron.
Okay, Dude. No time to argue. Here's the bridge
Walter!
Your wheel, Dude! I'm rolling out!
What the fuck?
Your wheel! At fifteen empeeaitch I roll out! I double back, grab one of 'em and beat it out of him! The uzi!
Uzi?
You didn't think I was rolling out of here naked!
Walter, please
Aitz chaim he, Dude. As the ex used to say.
What the fuck is that supposed to mean? What the fuck're we gonna tell Lebowski?
Huh? Oh, him, yeah. Well I don't see, um what exactly is the problem?
Huh? The problem iswhat do you mean what's thethere's nowe didn't they're gonna kill that poor woman
What the fuck're you talking about? That poor womanthat poor slut kidnapped herself, Dude. You said so yourself
No, Walter! I said I thought she kidnapped herself! You're the one who's so fucking certain
That's right, Dude, 1 % certain
Walter, what'm I gonna tell Lebowski?
I told that fuck down at the league office who's in charge of scheduling?
Walter
Who gives a shit, Walter? What about that poor woman? What do we tell
C'mon Dude, eventually she'll get sick of her little game and, you know, wander back
Yeah, and in the meantime what do I tell Lebowski?
Saturday is shabbas. Jewish day of rest. Means I don't work, I don't drive a car, I don't fucking ride in a car, I don't handle money, I don't turn on the oven, and I sure as shit don't fucking roll!
That's it. I'm out of here.
For Christ's sake, Dude.
But Walter, we didn't make the fucking hand off! They didn't get, the fucking money and they're gonna they're gonna
Yeah yeah, "kill that poor woman."
Walter
Who's got a fucking million fucking dollars parked in the trunk of our car out here?
"Our" car, Walter?
And what do they got, Dude? My dirty undies. My fucking whitesSay, where is the car?
You don't know, Walter? You seem to know the answer to everything else!
Hmm. Well, we were in a handicapped spot. It, uh, it was probably towed.
It's been stolen, Walter! You fucking know it's been stolen!
Well, certainly that's a possibility, Dude
Aw, fuck it.
That wasn't her toe.
Whose toe was it, Walter?
How the fuck should I know? I do know that nothing about it indicates
The nail polish, Walter.
Fine, Dude. As if it's impossible to get some nail polish, apply it to someone else's toe
Someone else'swhere the fuck are they gonna
You want a toe? I can get you a toe, believe me. There are ways, Dude. You don't wanna know about it, believe me.
But Walter
I'll get you a toe by this afternoonwith nail polish. These fucking amateurs. They send us a toe, we're supposed to shit our selves with fear. Jesus Christ. My point is
They're gonna kill her, Walter, and then they're gonna kill me
Well that's just, that's the stress talking, Dude. So far we have what looks to me like a series of victimless crimes
What about the toe?
FORGET ABOUT THE FUCKING TOE!
Lady, I got buddies who died face down in the muck so you and I could enjoy this family restaurant!
All right, I'm leaving. I'm sorry ma'am.
Don't run away from this, Dude! Goddamnit, this affects all of us!
I figure my only hope is that the big Lebowski kills me before the Germans can cut my dick off.
Now that is ridiculous, Dude. No one is going to cut your dick off.
Thanks Walter.
Not if I have anything to say about it.
Yeah, thanks Walter. That gives me a very secure feeling.
Dude
That makes me feel all warm inside.
Now Dude
This whole fucking thingI could be sitting here with just peestains on my rug.
They're nihilists.
Huh?
They kept saying they believe in nothing.
Nihilists! Jesus.
Yeah.
And let's also not forgetlet's not forget, Dudethat keeping wildlife, an amphibious rodent, for uh, domestic, you know, within the city that isn't legal either.
What're you, a fucking park ranger now?
No, I'm
Who gives a shit about the fucking marmot!
We're sympathizing here, Dude
Fuck your sympathy! I don't need your sympathy, man, I need my fucking Johnson!
He lives in North Hollywood on Radford, near the InandOut Burger
The InandOut Burger is on Camrose.
Near the InandOut Burger
Who the fuck is that?
Huh?
Who the fuck is Arthur Digby Sellers?
Who the fhave you ever heard of a little show called Branded, Dude?
Yeah.
All but one man died? There at Bitter Creek?
Yeah yeah, I know the fucking show Walter, so what?
Fucking Arthur Digby Sellers wrote 156 episodes, Dude.
Uhhuh.
The bulk of the series.
Uhhuh.
Not exactly a lightweight.
No.
And yet his son is a fucking dunce.
Uh.
Yeah, go figure. Well we'll go out there after the, uh, the.
Fuck me, man! That kid's already spent all the money!
Hardly Dude, a new 'vette? The kid's still got, oh, 96 to 97 thousand, depending on the options. Wait in the car, Donny.
Is this your homework, Larry?
Look, man, did you
Dude, please!. . . Is this your homework, Larry?
Just ask him if heask him about the car, man!
Is this yours, Larry? Is this your homework, Larry?
Is the car out front yours?
Is this your homework, Larry?
We know it's his fucking homework, Walter! Where's the fucking money, you little brat?
Look, Larry. . . Have you ever heard of Vietnam?
Oh, for Christ's sake, Walter!
You're going to enter a world of pain, son. We know that this is your homework. We know you stole a car
And the fucking money!
And the fucking money. And we know that this is your homework, Larry.
Walter, if you're there, pick up the fucking phone. Pick it up, Walter, this is an emergency. I'm not
Dude?
Walter, listen, I'm at my place, I need you to come pick me up
I can't drive, Dude, it's erev shabbas.
Huh?
Erev shabbas. I can't drive. I'm not even supposed to pick up the phone, unless it's an emergency.
It is a fucking emergency.
I understand. That's why I picked up the phone.
THEN WHY CAN'T YOUfuck, never mind, just call Donny then, and ask him to
Dude, I'm not supposed to make calls
WALTER, YOU FUCKING ASSHOLE, WE GOTTA GO TO PASADENA! COME PICK ME UP OR I'M OFF THE FUCKING BOWLING TEAM!
I mean we totally fucked it up, man. We fucked up his payoff. And got the kidnappers all pissed off, and the big Lebowski yelled at me a lot, but he didn't do anything. Huh?
Well it's, sometimes the cathartic, uh.
I'm saying if he knows I'm a fuck up, then why does he still leave me in charge of getting back his wife? Because he fucking doesn't want her back, man! He's had enough! He no longer digs her! It's all a show! But then, why didn't he give a shit about his million bucks? I mean, he knew we didn't hand off his briefcase, but he never asked for it back.
What's your point, Dude?
His million bucks was never in it, man! There was no money in that briefcase! He was hoping they'd kill her! You throw out a ringer for a ringer!
Yeah?
Shit yeah!
Okay, but how does all this add up to an emergency?
Huh?
I'm saying, I see what you're getting at, Dude, he kept the money, but my point is, here we are, it's shabbas, the sabbath, which I'm allowed to break only if it's a matter of life and death
Walter, come off it. You're not even fucking Jewish, you're
What the fuck are you talking about?
You're fucking Polish Catholic
What the fuck are you talking about? I converted when I married Cynthia! Come on, Dude!
Yeah, and you were
You know this!
And you were divorced five fucking years ago.
Yeah? What do you think happens when you get divorced? You turn in your library card? Get a new driver's license? Stop being Jewish?
This driveway.
I'm as Jewish as fucking Tevye
It's just part of your whole sick Cynthia thing. Taking care of her fucking dog. Going to her fucking synagogue. You're living in the fucking past.
Three thousand years of beautiful tradition, from Moses to Sandy Koufax YOU'RE GODDAMN RIGHT I LIVE IN THE PAST! IJesus. What the hell happened?
AS IF WE WOULD EVER DREAM OF TAKING YOUR BULLSHIT MONEY!
You thought Bunny'd been kidnapped and you could use it as a pretext to make some money disappear. All you needed was a sap to pin it on, and you'd just met me. You thought, hey, a deadbeat, a loser, someone the square community won't give a shit about.
It's all over, man! We call your fucking bluff!
WALTER, FOR CHRIST'S SAKE! HE'S CRIPPLED! PUT HIM DOWN!
Sure, I'll put him down, Dude. RAUSS! ACHTUNG, BABY!!
Oh, shit.
He can't walk, Walter!
Yeah, I can see that, Dude.
Walter, you fuck!
Shit, Dude, I didn't know. I wouldn't've done it if I knew he was a fucking crybaby.
We're sorry, man. We're really sorry.
Sure you'll see some tank battles. But fighting in desert is very different from fighting in canopy jungle.
Uhhuh.
I mean 'Nam was a foot soldier's war whereas, uh, this thing should be a fucking cakewalk. I mean I had an M16, Jacko, not an Abrams fucking tank. Just me and Charlie, man, eyeball to eyeball.
Yeah.
That's fuckin' combat. The man in the black pyjamas, Dude. Worthy fuckin' adversary.
Fuck you. Fuck the three of you.
Hey, cool it Walter.
Hey, cool it Walter. Listen, pal, there never was any money. The big Lebowski gave me an empty briefcase, man, so take it up with him.
AND I'D LIKE MY UNDIES BACK!
What's mine is mine.
Come on, Walter!.
Hy God! They shot him, Walter!
No Dude.
They shot Donny!
There weren't any shots.
Then what's...
It's a heart attack.
Wha.
Call the medics, Dude.
Wha. . . Donny
Hurry Dude. I'd go but I'm pumping blood. Might pass out.
Walter Sobchak.
The Dude, actually. Is what, uh.
Well can we
A hundred and eighty dollars?!
We're scattering the fucking ashes!
Walter
JUST BECAUSE WE'RE BEREAVED DOESN'T MEAN WE'RE SAPS!
Goddamnit Walter! You fucking asshole!
Dude! Dude, I'm sorry!
You make everything a fucking travesty!
Dude, I'mit was an accident!
What about that shit about Vietnam!
Dude, I'm sorry
What the fuck does Vietnam have to do with anything! What the fuck were you talking about?!
Shit Dude, I'm sorry
You're a fuck, Walter!
Is that what that's a picture of?
In a sense, yes. Elfranco, my robe. My art has been commended as being strongly vaginal. Which bothers some men. The word itself makes some men uncomfortable. Vagina.
Oh yeah?
Yes, they don't like hearing it and find it difficult to say. Whereas without batting an eye a man will refer to his "dick" or his "rod" or his "Johnson".
"Johnson"?
Thank you.
Huh?
Yes, I know about it. And I know that you acted as courier. And let me tell you something: the whole thing stinks to high heaven.
Right, but let me explain something about that rug
Do you like sex, Mr. Lebowski?
Excuse me?
Sex. The physical act of love. Coitus. Do you like it?
I was talking about my rug.
You're not interested in sex?
You mean coitus?
I like it too. It's a male myth about feminists that we hate sex. It can be a natural, zesty enterprise. But unfortunately there are some peopleit is called satyriasis in men, nymphomania in womenwho engage in it compulsively and without joy.
Oh, no.
Yes Mr. Lebowski, these unfortunate souls cannot love in the true sense of the word. Our mutual acquaintance Bunny is one of these.
Listen, Maude, I'm sorry if your stepmother is a nympho, but I don't see what it has to do withdo you have any kalhua?
Take a look at this, sir.
Lord. You can imagine where it goes from here.
He fixes the cable?
Don't be fatuous, Jeffrey. Little matter to me that this woman chose to pursue a career
Shit yeah, the achievers.
Little Lebowski Urban Achievers, yes, and proud we are of all of them. I asked my father about his withdrawal of a million dollars from the Foundation account and he told me about this "abduction", but I tell you it is preposterous. This compulsive
Yeah, but my
I'm getting to your rug. My father and I don't get along; he doesn't approve of my lifestyle and, needless to say, I don't approve of his. Still, I hardly wish to make my father's embezzlement a police matter, so I'm proposing that you try to recover the money from the people you delivered it to.
Wellsure, I could do that
If you successfully do so, I will compensate you to the tune of 1% of the recovered sum.
A hundred.
Thousand, yes, bones or clams or whatever you call them.
Yeah, but what about
your rug, yes, well with that money you can buy any number of rugs that don't have sentimental value for me. And I am sorry about that crack on the jaw.
Oh that's okay, I hardly even
Here's the name and number of a doctor who will look at it for you. You will receive no bill. He's a good man, and thorough.
That's really thoughtful but I
Please see him, Jeffrey. He's a good man, and thorough.
Jeffrey, you haven't gone to the doctor.
No it's fine, really, uh
Do you have any news regarding my father's money?
I, uh... money, yeah, I gotta respecfully, 69 you know, tender my resignation on that matter, 'cause it looks like your mother really was kidnapped after all.
She most certainly was not!
Hey man, why don't you fucking listen occasionally? You might learn something. Now I got
And please don't call her my mother.
Now I got
She is most definitely the perpetrator and not the victim.
I'm telling you, I got definitive evidence
From who?
The main guy, Dieter
Dieter Hauff?
Wellyeah, I guess
Her "costar" in the beaver picture?
Beaver? You mean vagina?I mean, you know him?
Dieter has been on the fringes of well, of everything in L.A., for about twenty years. Look at my LP's. Under 'Autobahn.'
Roy Orbison. . . Pink Floyd.
Huh? Autobahn. Auto. Their music is a sort ofughtechnopop.
Jeez. I miss vinyl.
Is he pretending to be the abductor?
Well...yeah
Look, Jeffrey, you don't really kidnap someone that you're acquainted with. You can't get away with it if the hostage knows who you are.
Well yeah...I know that.
So Dieter has the money?
Well, no, not exactly. It's a complicated case, Maude. Lotta ins. Lotta outs. And a lotta strands to keep in my head, man. Lotta strands in old Duder's
Do you still have that doctor's number?
Huh? No, really, I don't even have the bruise any more, I
Please Jeffrey. I don't want to be responsible for any delayed after effects.
Delayed aftereff
I want you to see him immediately.
Jeffrey.
Maude?
Tell me a little about yourself, Jeffrey.
Well, uh. . . Not much to tell.
I was, uh, one of the authors of the Port Huron Statement.The original Port Huron Statement.
Uhhuh.
Not the compromised second draft. And then I, uh. . . Ever hear of the Seattle Seven?
Mmnun.
And then. . . let's see, I uhmusic business briefly.
Oh?
Yeah. Roadie for Metallica. Speed of Sound Tour.
Uhhuh.
Bunch of assholes. And then, you know, little of this, little of that. My career's, uh, slowed down a bit lately.
What do you do for fun?
Oh, you know, the usual. Bowl. Drive around. The occasional acid flashback.
What happened to your house?
Jackie Treehorn trashed the place. Wanted to save the finder's fee.
Finder's fee?
He thought I had your father's money, so he got me out of the way while he looked for it.
It's not my father's money, it's the Foundation's. Why did he think you had it? And who does?
Larry Sellers, a highschool kid. Real fucking brat.
Jeffrey
It's a complicated case, Maude. Lotta ins, lotta outs. Fortunately I've been adhering to a pretty strict, uh, drug regimen to keep my mind, you know, limber. I'm real fucking close to your father's money, real fucking close. It's just
I keep telling you, it's the Foundation's money. Father doesn't have any.
Huh? He's fucking loaded.
No no, the wealth was all Mother's.
But your fatherhe runs stuff, he
We did let Father run one of the companies, briefly, but he didn't do very well at it.
But he's
He helps administer the charities now, and I give him a reasonable allowance. He has no money of his own. I know how he likes to present himself; Father's weakness is vanity. Hence the slut.
Huh. Jeez. Well, so, did heis that yoga?
Increases?
Well yes, what did you think this was all about? Fun and games?
Well...no, of course not
I want a child.
Yeah, okay, but see, the Dude
Look, Jeffrey, I don't want a partner. In fact I don't want the father to be someone I have to see socially, or who'll have any interest in rearing the child himself.
Huh...
So...that doctor.
Exactly. What happened to your face? Did Jackie Treehorn do that as well?
No, the, uh, police chief of Malibu. A real reactionary. . . So your father. . . Oh man, I get it!
What?
No! No! NO! THAT'S NOT
I FUCKEEN KILL JOR FUCKEEN CAR!
Who the fuck are you, man! Come on, man!
Relax, man! No physical harm intended!
Who the fuck are you? Why've you been following me? Come on, fuckhead!
Hey, relax man, I'm a brother shamus.
Brother Shamus? Like an Irish monk?
Irish mWhat the fuck are you talking about? My name's Da Fino! I'm a private snoop! Like you, man!
Huh?
Hello, gentlemen. You are the bereaved?
Yeah man.
Francis Donnelly. Pleased to meet you.
Jeffrey Lebowski.
This is quite a pad you got here, man. Completely unspoiled.
What's your drink, Dude?
White Russian, thanks. How's the smut business, Jackie?
I wouldn't know, Dude. I deal in publishing, entertainment, political advocacy, and
Which one was Logjammin'?
Regrettably, it's true, standards have fallen in adult entertainment. It's video, Dude. Now that we're competing with the amateurs, we can't afford to invest that little extra in story, production value, feeling.
People forget that the brain is the biggest erogenous zone
On you, maybe.
Of course, you do get the good with the bad. The new technology permits us to do exciting things with interactive erotic software. Wave of the future, Dude. 100% electronic.
Uhhuh. Well, I still jerk off manually.
Of course you do. I can see you're anxious for me to get to the point. Well Dude, here it is. Where's Bunny?
I thought you might know, man.
Me? How would I know? The only reason she ran off was to get away from her rather sizable debt to me.
But she hasn't run off, she's been
I've heard the kidnapping story, so save it. I know you're mixed up in all this, Dude, and I don't care what you're trying to take off her husband. That's your business. All I'm saying is, I want mine.
Yeah, well, right man, there are many facets to this, uh, you know, many interested parties. If I can find your money, man what's in it for the Dude?
Of course, there's that to discuss. Refill?
Does the Pope shit in the woods?
Let's say a 10% finder's fee?
Okay, Jackie, done. I like the way you do business. Your money is being held by a kid named Larry Sellers. He lives in North Hollywood, on Radford, near the InandOut Burger. A real fuckin' brat, but I'm sure your goons'll be able to get it off him, mean he's only fifteen and he's flunking social studies. So if you'll just write me a check for my ten per cent. . . of half a million. . . fifty grand.
Ahh, not so good, man.
One a those days, huh. Wal, a wiser fella than m'self once said, sometimes you eat the bar and sometimes the bar, wal, he eats you.
Uhhuh. That some kind of Eastern thing?
Far from it.
Mm.
I like your style, Dude.
Well I like your style too, man. Got a whole cowboy thing goin'.
Thankie. . . Just one thing, Dude. D'ya have to use s'many cuss words?
Take it easy, Dude.
Yeah. Thanks man.
Howdy do, Dude.
Oh, hey man, how are ya? I wondered if I'd see you again.
Wouldn't miss the semis. How things been goin'?
Ahh, you know. Strikes and gutters, ups and downs.
Thanks, Gary...Take care, man, I gotta get back.
Sure. Take it easy, DudeI know that you will.
Yeah man. Well, you know, the Dude abides.
1972 Pontiac LeBaron.
Color?
Green. Some brown, or, uh, rust, coloration.
And was there anything of value in the car?
Huh? Oh. Yeah. Tape deck. Couple of Creedence tapes. And there was a, uh. . . my briefcase.
In the briefcase?
Papers. Just papers. You know, my papers. Business papers.
And what do you do, sir?
I'm unemployed.
...Me, I don't drink coffee. But it's nice when they offer.
...Also, my rug was stolen.
Your rug was in the car.
No. Here.
Separate incidents?
Sometimes. I wouldn't hold out much hope for the tape deck though. Or the Creedence tapes.
And the, uh, the briefcase?
And this is the study. You can see the various commendations, honorary degrees, et cetera.
Yes, uh, very impressive.
Please, feel free to inspect them.
I'm not really, uh.
Please! Please!
Uhhuh.
That's the key to the city of Pasadena, which Mr. Lebowski was given two years ago in recognition of his various civic, uh.
Uhhuh.
That's a Los Angeles Chamber of Commerce Business Achiever award, which is givennot necessarily given every year! Given only when there's a worthy, somebody especially
Hey, is this him with Nancy?
That is indeed Mr. Lebowski with the first lady, yes, taken when
Lebowski on the right?
Of course, Mr. Lebowski on the right, Mrs. Reagan on the left, taken when
He's handicapped, huh?
Mr. Lebowski is disabled, yes. And this picture was taken when Mrs. Reagan was first lady of the nation, yes, yes? Not of California.
Far out.
And in fact he met privately with the President, though unfortunately there wasn't time for a photo opportunity.
Nancy's pretty good.
Wonderful woman. We were very
Are these.
These are Mr. Lebowski's children, so to speak
Different mothers, huh?
No, they
I guess he's pretty, uh, racially pretty cool
They're not his, hehheh, they're not literally his children; they're the Little Lebowski Urban Achievers, innercity children of promise but without the
I see.
without the means for higher education, so Mr. Lebowski has committed to sending all of them to college.
Jeez. Think he's got room for one more?
Oneoh! Hehheh. You never went to college?
Well, yeah I did, but I spent most of my time occupying various, um, administration buildings
Hehheh
smoking thaistick, breaking into the ROTC
Yes, heh
and bowling. I'll tell you the truth, Brandt, I don't remember most of it.Jeez! Fuck me!
So he says, "My son can't hold a job, my daughter's married to a fuckin' loser, and I got a rash on my ass so bad I can't hardly siddown. But you know me. I can't complain."
Fuckin' A, man. I got a rash. Fuckin' A, man. I gotta tell ya Tony.
Jesus, man, can you change the station?
Fuck you man! You don't like my fucking music, get your own fucking cab!
I've had a
I pull over and kick your ass out, man!
had a rough night, and I hate the fucking Eagles, man
That's it! Outta this fucking cab!
What tied the room together, Dude?
Were you listening to the story, Donny?
What
Were you listening to the Dude's story?
I was bowling
So you have no frame of reference, Donny. You're like a child who wanders in in the middle of a movie and wants to know
Yeah Walter, what's your point?
Huh?
He peed on the Dude's rug
YOU'RE OUT OF YOUR ELEMENT! This Chinaman is not the issue, Dude.
What's a pederast, Walter?
Shut the fuck up, Donny.
If what's during league play?
Life does not stop and start at your convenience, you miserable piece of shit.
What's wrong with Walter, Dude?
I am the Walrus.
That fucking bitch!
Shut the fuck up, Donny! V.I. Lenin! Vladimir Ilyich Ulyanov!
What the fuck is he talking about?
That's fucking exactly what happened, Dude! That makes me fucking SICK!
They posted the next round of the tournament
Donny, shut the fwhen do we play?
This Saturday. Quintana and
Saturday! Well they'll have to reschedule.
Burkhalter.
I told that kraut a fucking thousand times I don't roll on shabbas.
It's already posted.
WELL THEY CAN FUCKING UNPOST IT!
How come you don't roll on Saturday, Walter?
I'm shomer shabbas.
What's that, Walter?
Oh yeah, how'd it go?
Went alright. Dude's car got a little dinged up
Kill that poor woman.
Walter, if you can't ride in a car, how d'you get around on Shammas
Really, Dude, you surprise me. They're not gonna kill shit. They're not gonna do shit. What can they do? Fuckin' amateurs. And meanwhile, look at the bottom line. Who's sitting on a million fucking dollars? Am I wrong?
Who has your undies, Walter?
Where's your car, Dude?
And then they're gonna stamp on it?!
Oh for Christwill you shut the fuck up, Donny.
Fucking Germans. Nothing changes. Fucking Nazis.
They were Nazis, Dude?
Come on, Donny, they were threatening castration!
Uhhuh.
Are you gonna split hairs?
No
Am I wrong?
Well
What do you need that for, Dude?
You gotta buck up, man, you can't go into the tournament with this negative attitude
Those are good burgers, Walter.
Shut the fuck up, Donny. This kid is in the ninth grade, Dude, and his father isare you ready for this? Arthur Digby Sellers.
What have you. We'll, uh
We'll be near the InandOut Burger.
Shut the fuck up, Donny. We'll, uh, brace the kidhe'll be a pushover. We'll get that fucking money, if he hasn't spent it already. Million fucking clams. And yes, we'll be near the, uhsome burgers, some beers, a few laughs. Our fucking troubles are over, Dude.
Who's in pyjamas, Walter?
Shut the fuck up, Donny. Not a bunch of figeaters with towels on their heads tryin' to find reverse on a Soviet tank. This is not a worthy
Are they gonna hurt us, Walter?
They won't hurt us, Donny. These men are cowards.
What the fuck is he talking about?
My rug.
Fuckin' A.
And this guy peed on it.
His name is Lebowski? That's your name, Dude!
Yeah, this is the guy, this guy should compensate me for the fucking rug. I mean his wife goes out and owes money and they pee on my rug.
What do you mean, Dude?
Rugpeers did not do this. I mean look at it. Young trophy wife. Marries a guy for money but figures he isn't giving her enough. She owes money all over town
Yeah.
I am the Walrus.
Yeah, well, what do you care, Walter?
Yeah Dude, why is Walter so pissed off?
Sheesh.
Walter, how
Where you going, Dude?
I'm going home, Donny.
Your phone's ringing, Dude.
Thank you, Donny.
Almost five!
I got eighteen dollars, Dude.
Yeah.
We have the urn.
What's this?
That is for the urn.
Don't need it. We're scattering the ashes.
Yes, so we were informed. However, we must of course transmit the remains to you in a receptacle.
This is a hundred and eighty dollars.
Yes sir. It is our most modestly priced receptacle.
They range up to three thousand.
Yeah, but we're
Excuse me?
Nothing.
Yes. I understand you're taking away the remains.
Can we just rent it from you?
Sir, this is a mortuary, not a rental house.
Sir, please lower your voice
Hey man, don't you have something else you could put it in?
That is our most modestly priced receptacle.
There's no ransom if you don't have a fucking hostage. That's what ransom is. Those are the fucking rules.
Zere ARE no ROOLZ!
NO RULES! YOU CABBAGEEATING SONS OF BITCHES
Okay. Vee take ze money you haf on you und vee call it eefen.
Fuck you.
VEE FUCK YOU UP, MAN! VEE TAKE YOUR MONEY!
Come and get it.
VEE FUCK YOU UP, MAN!
Come and get it. Fucking nihilist.
I FUCK YOU! I FUCK YOU!
Show me what you got. Nihilist. Dipshit with a ninetoed woman.
NUSSING!
ANTISEMITE!
A dick, man! And let me tell you something: I dig your work. Playing one side against the otherin bed with everybodyfabulous stuff, man.
I'm not aah, fuck it, just stay away from my fucking lady friend, man.
Hey hey, I'm not messing with your special lady
She's not my special lady, she's my fucking lady friend. I'm just helping her conceive, man!
Hey, man, I'm not
Who're you working for? Lebowski? Jackie Treehorn?
The Gundersons.
The? Who the fff
The Gundersons. It's a wandering daughter job. Bunny Lebowski, man. Her real name is Fawn Gunderson. Her parents want her back.
Jesus fucking Christ.
Crazy, huh? Ran away a year ago.
Fuck, man! That's terrible!
Yeah, it sucks.
Well maybe you and me could pool our resourcestrade information professional courtesycompeers, you know
I know my rights.
You don't know shit, Lebowski.
I want a fucking lawyer, man. I want Bill Kunstler.
What are you, some kind of sadassed refugee from the fucking sixties?
Uhhuh.
Mr. Treehorn tells us that he had to eject you from his garden party, that you were drunk and abusive.
That guy treats women like objects, man.
Mr. Treehorn draws a lot of water in this town, Lebowski. You don't draw shit. We got a nice quiet beach community here, and I aim to keep it nice and quiet. So let me make something plain. I don't like you sucking around bothering our citizens, Lebowski. I don't like your jerk off name, I don't like your jerkoff face, I don't like your jerk off behavior, and I don't like you, jerk off do I make myself clear?
Manolo will load it into your car for you, uh, Dude.
It's the LeBaron.
Well, enjoy, and perhaps we'll see you again some time, Dude.
Yeah sure, if I'm ever in the neighborhood, need to use the john.
We've had some terrible news. Mr. Lebowski is in seclusion in the West Wing.
Huh.
Mr. Lebowski is prepared to make a generous offer to you to act as courier once we get instructions for the money.
Why me, man?
He suspects that the culprits might be the very people who, uh, soiled your rug, and you're in a unique position to confirm or, uh, disconfirm that suspicion.
So he thinks it's the carpetpissers, huh?
Well Dude, we just don't know.
They called about eighty minutes ago. They want you to take the money and drive north on the 4 5. They'll call you on the portable phone with instructions in about forty minutes. One person only or I'd go with you. They were very clear on that: one person only. What happened to your jaw?
Oh, nothin', you know.
Here's the money, and the phone. Please, Dude, follow whatever instructions they give.
Uhhuh.
Her life is in your hands.
Oh, man, don't say that..
Mr. Lebowski asked me to repeat that: Her life is in your hands.
Shit.
Her life is in your hands, Dude. And report back to us as soon as it's done.
This is our concern, Dude.
No, man, nothing is fucked here
That had not occurred to us, Dude.
Well, okay, you're not privy to all the new shit, so uh, you know, but that's what you pay me for. Speaking of which, would it be possible for me to get my twenty grand in cash? I gotta check this with my accountant of course, but my concern is that, you know, it could bump me into a higher tax
Where'd she been?
Visiting friends of hers in Palm Springs. Just picked up and left, never bothered to tell us.
But I guess she told Dieter.
Yeah?
Wasn't this guy supposed to be a millionaire?
Uh?
Fuck.
What do you think?
He looks like a fuckin' loser.
Pin your diapers on, Lebowski. Jackie Treehorn wants to see you.
And we know which Lebowski you are, Lebowski.
Yeah. Jackie Treehorn wants to talk to the deadbeat Lebowski.
You're not dealing with morons here.
Hiya Allan.
Dude, I finally got the venue I wanted. I'm Performing my dance quintetyou know, my cycleat Crane Jackson's Fountain Street Theatre on Tuesday night, and I'd love it if you came and gave me notes.
Sure Allan, I'll be there.
Dude, uh, tomorrow is already the tenth.
Yeah, yeah I know. Okay.
Just, uh, just slip the rent under my door.
Yeah, okay.
Hey!!
Yes sir.
I'm looking for a gal name of Judy. Works over by the slaughterhouse. Said she lived on Plank Road.
Plank Road. Yes sir. That's up a ways. Mile, maybe.
You don't know her? Judy? Works in the slaughterhouse.
No sir, I don't, but I know Plank Road. 'Bout a mile up thataway.
Look here..There's a cross up there, so I guess this here's a church or used to be. Seems to me like you ought to show it some respect, you follow me?
Yes sir..You right about that. That's just what I come over to talk to him about. Just that..
What the hell you thinking, girl? Strolling in here this late?
Don't talk to me, Mr. Sawyer. Don't say nothing to me this morning.
What? What? You talking back to me?
I'm telling you don't say nothing to me.
Not too sweet! You make it too sweet they don't eat it.
Make it the way I always do.
Yeah. Too sweet.
Sethe?
Paul D.
You shaved.
Yeah. Look bad?
No, You looking good.
Devil's confusion. What's this I hear about you not getting out of bed? I saw Denver. She tell you?
She comes in the daytime. She still with me, my Denver.
You got to get up from here, girl.
I'm tired, Paul. So tired. I have to rest a while.
Don't you die on me!! This is Baby Suggs quilt. Is that what you planning!?
Oh, I don't have no plans. No plans at all.
Look  Denver be here in the day. I be here in the night. I'm a take care of you, you hear? Starting now.
What, baby?
She left me. She's gone again.
Aw, girl. Don't cry...Me and you, we got more yesterday than anybody. We need some kind of tomorrow...
She was my best thing.
This is hard for me. But I got to do it. Two things I got to say to you. I'm a take the easy one first.
If it's hard for you, might kill me dead.
I come looking for you to ask your pardon. Apologize.
For what?
You pick any house, any house where colored live. Pick any one and you welcome to stay there. I'm apologizing 'cause they didn't offer to tell you. But you welcome anywhere you want to be. My house. John and Ella. Miss Lady Jones..anybody. You choose. You ain't got to sleep in no cellar and I apologize for each and every night.
Well I...I did get offered one place but I just wanted to be off by myself a spell.
Oh yeah. Oh that's load off. I thought everybody gone crazy.
Just me.
You planning to do anything about it?
Oh yeah. I got big plans.
You remember your price, Stamp?
Never found out.
I did. Down to the cent.$900. Always wondered though what Mrs. Garner got for my brother Paul F. Must of been more than nine hundred dollars cause she use that money for Sweet Home for almost two years. But then they hung my other brother Paul A. up on a tree so I guess he wasn't worth the same..I wonder what was Baby Suggs worth? And Halle? I wasn't surprised when I found out they tracked down Sethe all the way to Cincinatti. Her price must have been higher than all of us  her being property that reproduced itself without cost. A breeder.
No use thinking these things now.
Oh but we got to. How we gonna know our price in the future? How are children's children's children gonna know what they cost? Who's gonna tell them? What are they gonna pay for us, if we free?
Children ain't gonna need to know that kind of thing.
They'll know. They'll know as soon as they born. Cause it's inside us,Stamp. It'll be inside them. We'll pass it down. Schoolteacher didn't just change the outside, he changed the mind..and the blood..and what it carries...and what it's worth..
I don't believe that. I won't.
There was a rooster named Mister down at Sweet Home. Last time I saw Halle, with that butter all over his face and me with an iron bit in my mouth, I saw Mister  sitting on a tub. He loved that tub. Like king on a throne. He was a hateful thing. Bloody and evil..But he was better than me. Mister was allowed to be and stay what he was. Even if you cooked him you'd be cooking a rooster named Mister. But wasn't no way I'd ever be Paul D. again..Schoolteacher changed me. Was never no beating under Mr. Garner. Schoolteacher changed that. Why wouldn't a man run from that? Why wouldn't a man not work, kill, starve, pull out his own heart to stop feeling 'stead of feeling that? And it strikes me, it's got to be cause we were something else. And that something was less than a chicken sitting in the sun on a tub.
I said I had two things to say to you. I only told you one. I have to tell you the other.
I don't want to know.
I was there Paul D...There in the yard. When she did it.
What yard? When who
Jesus.
It ain't what you think.
You don't know what I think.
She ain't crazy. She love those children. She was trying to outhurt the hurter's all.
Leave off..
She was only
Stamp, leave off I said! I knew her when she was a girl. She scares me and I knew her when she was a girl...
You ain't scared of Sethe. I don't believe you.
She scares me. I scare me. And that girl in her house scares me.
Who is she? Where she come from?
Don't know. Just shot up one day from a stump.
She what run you off? Not what I told you 'bout Sethe?
Tell me something, Stamp. Tell me this one thing. How much is a nigger supposed to take?
All he can. All he can.
Why? Why? Why? Why? Why?
Where you been keeping yourself? I told John must be cold if Stamp stay inside.
Oh I been out.
Out where?
Was over to Baby Suggs.
What you want there? Somebody invite you in?
That's Baby's kin. I don't need no invite to look after her people.
Somebody new there. A woman. Thought you might know who she is.
Ain't no new Negroes in this town I don't know about. What she look like? You sure that wasn't Denver?
I know Denver.
You sure?
I know what I see.
Might see anything at all at 124.
True.
Better ask Paul D.
Can't locate him.
He's sleeping in the church.
The church!
Yeah. Asked Rev. Pike if he could stay in the cellar.
It's cold as charity in there! What he do that for? Any number'll take him in.
Can't nobody read minds long distance. All he have to do is ask somebody.
Why? Why he have to ask? Can't nobody offer? What's going on? Since when a black man come to town have to sleep in the cellar like a dog?!
Unrile yourself, Stamp. It's only a few days he been there.
NO! Shouldn't be no days! You know all about it and don't give him a hand? That don't sound like you, Ella. Me and you been pulling colored folk out the water more'n twenty years! Now you tell me you can't offer a man a bed?! A working man who can pay his own way?
He ask, I give him anything.
Why's that necessary all of a sudden?
I don't know him that well.
You know he's colored? What else there to know?
Stamp, don't tear me up this morning! I don't feel like it.
It's her, ain't it?
Her who?
Sethe. He took up with her and stayed in there and you don't want nothing to
Hold on! Don't jump if you can't see bottom!
Girl, give it up! We been friends too long to act like this.
Well, who can tell what went on in there? I never even knew who Sethe was or none of her people.
You know she married Baby Suggs' boy.
I ain't sure I know that. Baby never laid eyes on her till she showed up here. And how'd she make it and her husband didn't? And where is he? And how she have that baby in the woods by herself? Said a whitewoman help her. Shoot. You believe that? Well, I know what kind of white that was.
Aw, no, Ella.
Anything white floating around in the woods  if it don't got a shotgun, it's something the Lord tells me I don't want no part of.
You was friends.
Till she showed herself.
Ella.
I ain't got no friends take a handsaw to their own children.
What's any of that got to do with Paul D.?
What run him off? Tell me that!
I run him off.
You?
I told him...Showed him the newspaper. About Sethe. Read it to him. He left that very day.
You didn't tell me that. I thought he already knew.
He didn't know nothing. And nobody. Except her, from when they was at that place Baby Suggs was at.
He knew Baby Suggs?
Sure he knew her. Her boy Halle, too.
And he left when he found out what Sethe did? What you say casts a different light on it, I guess...I thought
But you didn't come here talking 'bout Paul. You came asking about a new girl.
That's so.
Well, Paul D. must know who she is. Or what she is.
You mind loaded with spirits. Everywhere you look you see one.
You know as well as I do, Stamp, that people who die bad don't stay in the ground.
Back stiff?
OOh, yeah...Don't know if it's the floor or the skating.
Could be that fall you took.
That was fun.
Should I wake her?
No, let her rest.
She likes to see you off in the morning.
I'll make sure she does. But first I'm going make up a nice, big breakfast against that cold outside.
Won't you be late for work?
Don't matter. First time I'll be late in nine years. No great trouble..Whatever goes on out there goes on with or without me showing up on time... don't matter... The world is in this room, baby. This is all there is and all there needs to be.
DON'T LOVE HER TOO MUCH.
DO YOU FORGIVE ME?
OUT THERE. WAY OFF.
DADDY IS COMING FOR US.
Morning.
Morning, ma'am.
MAMA!
Hold back Denver  I'm fine..You..you go on upstairs. I'll do the cleaning up.
But mama..
Go upstairs I said!!
Mama let me help you.
NO!...She wanted me to do it.
Nobody..no sir..that's right..nobody's going be doing that..nobody going be writing my daughter's characteristics on the animal side..no sir..I don't care..ain't laying that down..no sir. I refuse..that's right..that's right...
Mama...Mama she's asleep. Why don't you eat something.
She likes this dress...
But you'll hurt your eyes doin it there. Come sit at the table.
No...no...no..
Mama?
I want to work, Miss Lady.
Work? Start learnin your letters again?
No. I mean work work.
Well, what can you do?
I can't do anything but I would learn it for you if you have a little extra.
Extra?
Food. My mama, she doesn't feel well. I couldn't stay away from her too long, cause of her condition but I could do chores in the mornings.
Oh baby...I don't know anyone could pay anybody anything for work they did themselves...But if you all need to eat until your mother's well, all you have to do is say so...We have a church committee invented so nobody had to go hungry.
No..No that won't do...
Yes?
May I come in?
What you want?
I want to see Mr. and Mrs. Bodwin.
Miss Bodwin. They brother and sister, darlin.
Oh.
What you want'em for?
I'm looking for work. I was thinking they might know of some.
You Baby Sugg's kin, ain't you?
Yes ma'am.
I heard your mother took sick, that so?
Yes ma'am..
Well, come on in. You letting in flies.
You know what? I've been here since I was fourteen and I remember like yesterday when Baby Suggs, holy, came here and sat right where you are. Whiteman name of Garner brought her. He and Mr. Bodwin were good friends. That's how she got that house you all live in. Other things too.
Yes ma'am.
I never went to those woodland services but she was always nice to me. Always. Never be another like her.
I miss her.
Bet you do. Everybody miss her. That was a good woman...Well, I don't know whether the Bodwins think it or not but they sure could use some extra help.
Ya think?
They getting older now and I can't take care of 'em like I used to. More and more they keep asking me to sleep over night. Now, I don't want to quit these people but they can't have all my days and nights too. I got my own family needs me. It'll take some convincing but maybe you could come after supper  take care of your mama during the day, then earn a little something at night, how's that?
Fine. But what would I do at night?
Be here. In case.
In case of what?
In case the house burn down or bad weather slops the roads so bad I can't get here on time or late guests needed cleaning up after. Anything. Don't ask me what whitefolks need at night.
They good whitefolks?
Oh yeah. They good. Can't say they ain't good. I wouldn't trade them for another pair, tell you that. But you come back in a few days  give me a chance to lead'em to it. All right?
Well, is it now? How you getting along?
Don't pay to complain.
You on your way home?
No. Got me an afternoon job at the shirt factory. Figure between that and my night work at the Bodwins I might be able to put something away for me and mama.
They treating you right over at the Bodwins?
More than all right. Miss Bodwin, she teach me stuff..Book stuff. She says I might go to Oberlin. She's experimenting on me.
Your mother all right?
No. Not a bit all right. Hasn't gotten out of bed since that day.
You think I should stop by? Think she'd welcome it?
I don't know. I think I've lost my mother, Paul D.
That girl...You know, Beloved...
Yes?
She gone like they say?
Haven't seen her since that day. Ella thinks she might be waiting in the woods for another chance but..I don't think so. Mama thinks she's gone for good. Says she can feel it.
You think she sure 'nough your sister?
At times. At other times I think she was...more. But who would know that better than you. I mean, you sure 'nough you her.
Well, if you want my opinion...
I don't. I have my own.
You grown.
Yes sir
Well, good luck with the job.
Thank you.
And Paul D...you don't have to stay 'way, but be careful how you talk to my mama, hear?
I will.
DID YOU COME FROM THE OTHER SIDE.
YES. I WAS ON THE OTHER SIDE.
YOU CAME BACK BECAUSE OF ME?
YES.
YOU NEVER FORGOT ME?
YOUR FACE IS MINE.
WILL YOU STAY?
WHY DID YOU LEAVE ME WHO AM YOU?
I WILL NEVER LEAVE YOU AGAIN.
CAN THEY GET IN HERE?
NO. THEY TRIED ONCE BUT I STOPPED THEM. THEY WON'T EVER COME BACK...YOU MY BEST THING.
You don't sit with me!!
Baby, don't be like that.
You don't sit with me!! I don't sit with people who leave me!
Don't talk like that. Your mama loves you.
I had another dream last night. The dead man laying on top of me and I had nothing to eat. And the ghosts without skin stuck their fingers in me and said Beloved in the dark and bitch in the light..
Don't say those things. You forget about those dreams..
You gave me the bad dreams. You left me behind...
Mama told you  I'd give up my own life, every minute, every hour of it to take back one of your tears baby...My children my best thing. You my best thing!
You're weren't nice to me..you didn't smile at me..
That's not true. I told you, I had to get you out, make you safe...so's you and me could be together on the other side, forever..
I want somethin' sweet.
We don't have nothing sweet no more, baby.
Not for me, you don't! You don't let me eat the pies...
No. Since mama lost her job, we don't have no more pies..
..I swallowed her blood right along with my mother's milk. She played with me and always came to be with me whenever I needed her. Me and her waited for our daddy. I love her. I do. She never hurt me. I love my mother but I know she killed one of her own, and tender as she is with me, I'm scared of her because of it. All the time, I'm afraid the thing that happened that made it all right to kill her own, could happen again. Whatever it is, it comes from outside this house, outside the yard. So I never leave this house and I watch over the yard so it can't happen again ... I have to keep it away from my sister...I'll protect Beloved...'Cause She's mine...
Beloved..She's mine I am Beloved
and she is mine...
YOU HURT ME.
I WILL PROTECT YOU.
WATCH OUT FOR HER; SHE CAN GIVE YOU DREAMS.
WHERE ARE THE MEN WITHOUT SKIN?
THE WHITEFOLK?
What do you know about it? I sleep where I want.
You best leave that quilt alone. That was grandma's quilt.
No. Sorry.
Ah, winter in Ohio is especially rough if you've got an appetite for color.
They'll be all right. I'm surprised they lasted here this long.
I don't know. Maybe we should have moved.
What'd be the point? Not a house in the country ain't packed to the rafters with some dead Negro's grief. We lucky our ghost is a baby. My husband spirit come back? Or yours? Don't talk to me! Ha..You lucky. You got one child left, still pullin at your skirts. Be thankful. I had eight. Eight with six fathers. Every one of them gone from me. Four taken, four chased and all, I expect, worrying somebody's house into evil. My first born  alls I can remember of her now is how she loved the burned bottom of bread. Her little hands..I wouldn't know'em if they slapped me. Can you beat that? Eight children and that's all I remember.
You remember Halle.
Oh, I remember bits and pieces of all of'em I guess..Halle, of course..I had Halle a lifetime. Almost twenty years... My two girls, sold and gone before I could even a heard about it, and them without their grown up teeth yet. My third child, my son after Halle...I let that straw boss have me for four months so's I could keep that boy. Next year, he had him traded for lumber anyway and me pregnant with his child. I couldn't love that child. I wouldn't. Not any of the rest either. God take what He would....and He did...
The boys wouldn't have left if Halle were here.
Those boys didn't even know him. You had six whole years of marriage to my Halle Fathered every one of your children. A blessing. I learned hard that a man's just a man, but a son like that...like Halle..now that's somebody.
...All I remember is how she loved the bottom of burned bread. Her little hands...I wouldn't know 'em if they slapped me".
..."Here. Look here. See this mark? If you can't tell me by my face, look here."
Folks came.
Folks come. Folks go.
Here, let me carry that.
I got a delivery around here. Name of Tucker.
Yonder. Twin chestnuts in the yard.
Well?
Well what?
This Saturday  you coming to Call or what?
If I call them, and they come what on earth am I going to say to them.
Say the Word!
The Word. What you was put here to speak.
That's the last thing they took from me.
But you got to do it. You got to. Can't nobody Call like you. You have to be there.
What I have to do is get in my bed and lay down. I want to fix on something harmless in this world.
What world are you talking about? Ain't nothing harmless down here.
Blue. That doesn't hurt nobody. Yellow neither.
You getting into bed to think about yellow?
I likes yellow.
Then what? When you get through with blue and yellow, then what?
Can't say. It's something can't be planned.
You blaming God. That what you're doing?
No, Stamp. I ain't.
You saying whitefolks won. That what you saying?
Those white things have taken all I had or dreamed. I'm saying ain't no bad luck in this world 'cept for white folks..They just don't know when to stop.
You saying nothing counts?
I'm saying they came into my yard.
You saying God give up? Nothing left for us but pour out our own blood?
I'm saying they came into my yard.
You punishing Him, ain't you?
Not like He punished me.
You can't do that, Baby. It ain't right.
Was a time I knew what was.
You still know.
What I know is what I see: a nigger woman hauling shoes.
Aw, Baby.
We have to be steady. "These things too will pass". What you looking for? A miracle?
No. I'm looking for what I was put here to look for: the back door.
Why you never go back to Lady Jone's and learn your letters? You liked going there I remember. Seeing the other children. Then all a sudden, you stop.
There was a boy there...said mama was a jailbird...said he could prove it..
You got to go sometime. You got to go out there by yourself sometime.
But you said...you said out there, there ain't no...what was that word?..no..de fense. No defense.
There ain't.
Then what do I do?
Know it, and go on out the yard. Go on.
Captain Mertin?
What want ye, girl child?
I am not a child, Captain Mertin, but rather an adult lady of miniature proportions.
I see. Well, it is not my fault that thou art tiny. So if it is charity yer after, then be gone with ye, ye foul demon.
I am not asking for alms, but rather the ear of a kind man with a noble heart.
Aye. Speak then if ye must.
Captain Mertin, surely I am a Godfearing Christian woman like yourself, but alas, I am afraid that the world was not built with me in mind. Door knobs are too high, chairs are unwieldy, highceilinged rooms mock my stature. Nor am I a marrie lady, Captain. after all, who would marry a person of my diminutiveness? So I am forced to work for my few pennies a week as an optometrist. Why cannot there be a place for me to work safe and comfortable?
Yeah?
Mr. Malkovich?
Who's calling?
You don't know me, but I'm a great admirer of yours.
How'd you get this number?
It's just that I fantasize about you and, well, speaking to you now has gotten me sort of excited and...
Can I get you a drink?
Whatever you're having.
Thanks so much for coming over.
Oh, I'm really glad you called.
So, do you enjoy being an actor?
Oh sure. It's very rewarding...
I'm sorry, did you just call me "Lotte"?
Do you mind?
No, I guess not. I'm an actor.
Oh, my sweet, beautiful Lotte.
Yes, Maxine, yes.
Yes, yes, sweetheart, yes! What the fuck is going on? I'm not talking. This is not me!
Oh, Lotte...
Something was making me talk. Some Goddamn thing was making me move. I gotta get out of here.
Oh, Dollface, it was just your passion for me taking hold.
No, Dollface, I know what my passion taking hold feels like. I gotta go.
Darling!
What the fuck is going on?
Come on in.
I can explain about the portal, darling.
Don't con me, Maxine. We're over. I just let you up here to tell you that, and to tell you that I'm taking you and Schwartz to court.
Oh shut up. Craig, darling are you in there?
Yes. How did you know it was me?
Lotte called me.
Oh, so the bitch escaped.
Apparently you can control this Malkovich fellow now.
I'm getting better all the time.
I'll say you are. Let's do it on his kitchen table, then make him eat an omelette off of it.
No... damn... you... Oh shut up, you overrated sack of shit.
You still there, sweets?
Yeah. I've figured out how to hold on as long as I want. Oddly enough, it's all in the wrists.
Wow. Do a puppet show for me, Craig honey.
You mean with Malkovich?
I'd love to see your work.
Really? Yeah. Okay.
That was incredible. You're brilliant!
You see, Maxine, it isn't just playing with dolls.
You're right, my darling, it's so much more. It's playing with people!
Stay in him forever?
No! But how will we make a living, my love, if our clientele doesn't have access to our product?
Well, we'll have all the money in Malkovich's bank account, plus he still gets acting work occasionally.
No! Please! Shut up, will you? We're trying to think here. It is sort of like being a puppeteer. I like that about it.
No one would ever have to know its not him.
Wait a minute! What if everybody knew? What if we presented Malkovich as the world's most complicated puppet and me as the only puppeteer sophisticated enough to work him? We'd wipe the floor with the Great Mantini!
Oh, Craiggy, that's brilliant!
Shut up! Sorry, dear, I lost control for a minute.
It's okay, my sweet.
Vegas.
Vegas. Can you arrange that?
This is it, lover. You're stepping onto that stage a nobody and prestochangeo, you're coming back the greatest puppeteer the world has ever seen.
I'm nervous. Malkovich is fighting me hard today.
Doesn't he know how important tonight is to us?
He's a selfish bastard.
They love me, darling! "Craig Schwartz is fantastic!" The New York Times. "If only Craig Schwartz had always been inside Malkovich!" Women's Wear Daily. "Craig Schwartz  The world's greatest puppeteer!" Paul Wunder, WBAI Radio.
Oh, darling. It's a dream come true. We're going to ride this straight to the top.
Sleepy suddenly.
Busy day, my little fire chief. Why don't you climb into bed, and I'll meet you there in just...
Bad dream, darling?
I've got to leave Malkovich.
You've got to be kidding.
I just had the most horrifying nightmare. The devil was in it.
Honey, we can be happy and poor together.
Perhaps you'll want to consult that Ouija board again.
Yeah what?!
Derek Mantini!
Goodbye, Maxine.
Whatever.
Hello, Schwartz. I saw your show.
Did you see the reviews?
Yeah, I saw them
Because if you missed any, I just happen to have copies here you can take with you when you leave now.
She's not available.
We'll see, Schwartz. We'll see.
How do we do that?
A friendly competition, if you will. Your Malkovich puppet and my Harry S. Truman puppet appear opposite each other in a play. Not some Vegas BurlyQ pyrotechnics, but a real play that requires actual acting. The audience decides who is more deserving of the title. The losing puppeteer bows out graciously. Goes back to obscurity as a file clerk.
What's the play?
Say... "Equus"? It's got everything.
Never heard of it.
Broadway's finest three hours. It's about the suppression of the individual. Conformity as God in modern society.
Sounds boring. Are there any songs?
Nothing but acting to hide behind, buddyboy.
I'm not afraid. I toured for a year with the National Puppet Company's production of "Long Day's Journey Into Night."
Great then.
Is there dancing?
No.
Who needs dancing?
Yes, hello, I wanted to place an ad. Hi, are you Craig's wife?
Yes, Hi.
Hi. Have you done Malkovich yet?
Hi, uh. Hi. I wanted to place an ad. Yes. "Ever want to be someone else?" No, that's the ad, but let's talk about you in a minute. "Ever want to be someone else? Now you can. No kidding..."
Don't stand in the way of my actualization as a man, Craig.
Let her go, Craig. I mean him."
And the funny thing is. Mr. Malkovich, my voice is probably the least intriguing thing about me.
I've never been looked at like this by a woman.
Ah.
After that I'll introduce you to my favorite monkey, Elijah. He's got an ulcer, due to a suppressed childhood trauma. But we're getting to the bottom of it. Psychotherapy.
Yes?
I have to see you. Can you call him and invite us over?
When?
Give me one hour to get inside him Exactly.
Oh my darling. Oh my sweetheart.
I love you, Lotte.
Maxine...
J.M. Inc. Be all that someone else can be.
I have to see you.
Sweetie! Oh, but we can't. It's business hours. I need to keep the membranous tunnel open for paying customers.
We have to meet.
One hour.
Maxine! Listen: It hasn't been me in John the last three times. Craig's had me locked up in the apartment. He made me call you at gunpoint. It's been him! Oh, God, it's been him!
Really? Well, you know, he's quite good. I'm surprised. Anyway, I have a session with Malkovich I have to attend. I'll speak with you soon.
But Maxine, I thought it was me you loved.
I thought so too, doll. I guess we were mistaken.
Tell me, Lotte, can you understand a word I'm saying?
Yes, of course, Dr. Lester.
Oh, be still my heart.
Dr. Lester, would you point me toward the restroom?
With immense pleasure, my dear. Down that hall, ninth door on the left. Watch the step down. It's sunken, you know.
I'm getting divorced.
No you mustn't, my child.
But why, Son of Malkovich?
We need you on the inside, my child. To report on his comings and goings, and if need be, to... destroy him... ...for lack of a better word.
I blew it, Dr. Lester.
You followed your heart, my child, and that is not necessarily a bad thing.
But now we've lost access to Craig.
My child, I don't think its a great mystery what Craig's up to.
You know I think it pays to leave juicemaking to the trained professionals. You look terrible, my dear.
Craig stole Maxine from me, Dr. Lester.
Hmmm, a lesbian, are you? I must inform you that I find that highly arousing.
No, you don't understand. I've been inside Malkovich when I'm with Maxine...
What?! That is not allowed. My God, you are supposed to be one of us. You know you must never partake of Malkovich by yourself!
No, I didn't know that.
Oh, didn't anyone show you the indoctrination video?
No.
Oh, sorry. Right this way.
Aaaahhhh, the portal!
You bastard!
No! Don't harm the vessel!
It's Craig in there, I can tell.
I understand, but we must protect the vessel at all costs. Please, Craig, please step aside and allow us to have what is rightfully ours.
Thank you all for your efforts, but I'm afraid we can no longer get into Malkovich through the portal.
Why not? I need to get in there!
I'm not certain, my dear, but I believe your husband has somehow psychically diverted the route.
That bastard! I'll gladly dispose of him in the name of the order, Son of Malkovich.
I'm afraid that no physical harm must come to him as long as he inhabits the vessel.
You don't look a day over one hundred and five, Captain. What's your secret?
Lots of carrot juice, little lady. That, and a deal with the Devil.
Anybody else?
Do we get to wear a crown?
But of course.
Count me in.
Good. I think its time to beckon Mr. Flemmer. Perhaps He can help us out of this pickle.
It's like nothing I've ever felt before. I think I'm going crazy.
I'm sure you're not going crazy.
Kevin, I'm telling you... it was like nothing I've...
Yeah yeah yeah. Yadda yadda yadda. Were you stoned?
Yes, but you see, someone else was talking through my mouth.
You were stoned. Case closed. End of story. How hot is this babe?
I think it might've been this Lotte woman talking through me. Maxine likes to call me Lotte.
Ouch. Now that's hot. She's using you to channel some dead lesbian lover. Let me know when you're done with her. This is my type of chick.
I'm done with her now. Tonight really creeped me out.
You're crazy to let go of a chick who calls you Lotte. I tell you that as a friend.
I don't know anything about her. What if she's some sort of witch or something?
All the better. Hey, Hot Lesbian Witches, next Geraldo, buddy boy. Ha ha ha.
I gotta know the truth, Kevin.
The truth is for suckers, JohnnyBoy.
Do you dream often?
Do you?
It's my job to ask the questions. Yours to answer them.
Says who?
Says me. Do you dream often?
Do you?
Floris, get Guinness on the phone.
Gehginnis ondah foam?
Forget it.
Fork ah did?
Fine woman, Floris. I don't know how she puts up with this damn speech impediment of mine.
Yes, my dear?
Someone names A Lot of Warts on line two.
Thank you, Floris.
Think, Jew florist?
Good morning, Lotte!
Boy, this is a toughie. To be honest, I didn't anticipate this.
And as I said, sir, we can't very well exert physical persuasion upon the sacred vessel Malkovich.
Right, Lester. I heard you the first time. I'm not a dummy.
Didn't mean to imply that you were, sir.
Look, I'm going back to my house to ponder this. So stay calm and keep track of Schwartz's comings and goings. Oh, and somebody dispose of Schwartz's wife, will you? Nice to meet you all.
Have a seat. I wracking my brain over this Malkovich thing.
We saw his show at the Luxor last night.
Vegas? What'd you think?
The kid's got talent. You've never seen Malkovich like this. Schwartz had him up there singing and dancing. Impressions.
Impressions? Those are hard.
Very talented son of a bitch. Too bad we can't kill him.
I suppose I could come to him in a dream. I don't know. That's the best I can think of right now.
A scary dream?
No, a sexy dream. Of course, a scary dream.
I like that.
How'd it go? Did you say the philodendron gets water or no?
No, for God's sake, I just watered it yesterday. It almost went well. I gave a pretty good dream, but circumstances arose.
What kind of circumstances?
Maxine says she'll leave him if he leaves Malkovich, plus he's been challenged to a puppetduel by Mantini.
The Great Mantini?
No, the Mediocre Mantini. Of course the Great Mantini!
Oh, he's good! Great, actually. I saw him do "Tru" with his sixty foot Robert Morse puppet. Sensational.
But I think I have another plan.
Do tell. I love a good plan.
Why are you being like this?
I missed you. I'm sorry. Tell me the plan.
Well, if Mantini wins, Schwartz will leave Malkovich, right? So, if he needs it, I help Mantini's performance a bit, give him an edge. Spice up the show.
Can you do that? I mean, do you know anything about puppetry?
I am the Devil, Lester. I think I can handle it.
I was just asking. No disrespect intended.
Fine. Let's drop it.
Fine. I mean, it's not like I was doubting you, it's just that I know puppetry is a skill that takes a long time to acquire.
Fine. I'm not mad. Let's just drop it.
Fine. Your mail's on the kitchen table. Mostly junk. Oh, there's a letter from Alex Trebek.
No.
Long term psychic or physiological repercussions?
No. Don't be an ass.
Can I be anyone I want?
You can be John Malkovich.
Well that's perfect. My second choice. Ah, this is wonderful. Too good to be true! You see, I'm a sad man. Sad and fat and alone. Oh, I've tried all the diets, my friends. Lived for a year on nothing but imitation mayonnaise. Did it work? You be the judge. But Malkovich! King of New York! Man about town! Most eligible bachelor! Bon Vivant! The Schopenhauer of the 20th century! Thin man extraordinaire!
Two hundred dollars, please.
Yes. Yes. A thousand times, yes!
You've got to tell Craig what's going on. He must never leave Malkovich.
I'm glad you learned sign language, Elijah, but I'm tired of your nagging. I'm tired of this conversation. I'm tired period. What has the world ever done for me that I should feel personally responsible for saving it?
It is better to light one candle than curse the darkness. I learned that from you.
Must you take this terrible demon on yourself, my love?
Yes. I'm the only one. I have to enter Malkovich and destroy him from the inside. If not me, who?
If there was any way I could go in your place. But I'm only a monkey and...
Hush, sweetheart.
I'll be with you always, my friends. Who knows, maybe if I'm lucky, I'll rejoin you with wings and a beak.
Wings and a halo, my darling. Wings and a halo.
Hello, Don.
Hello. Wendy.
Don, I was wondering, do you know why our workplace has such low ceilings?
It's an interesting story, Wendy. Many years ago in the late 1800's, James Mertin, an Irish ship captain looking to invest in the future of our great country, came to this town and decided to erect an office building.
So that's the story of 7 1/2. Since the rents are considerably lower this floor has been adopted by businesses which for one reason or another are forced to cut corners After all... the overhead is low! Ha ha ha!
Ha ha ha!
Hi. Wendy! What're you up to in this vacant office.
Well, Don, I peeked in here, even though I know it's against floor policy. and I discovered that there's a little tiny door in here. Isn't it cute? It's almost like a little dolly's door. I wonder what its for.
That's right, Wendy, it is against floor policy, but as long as you're here, let me tell you what I know about our cute little door friend. Many years ago, this very office was occupied by a kindly old watchmaker named Mr. White.
Moving story.
Yes. Unfortunately it's bullshit. The real story of 7 1/2 is so evil that it could never be revealed to Americans raised on sitcoms and happy news anchors.
Is that true?
Well, truth is for suckers, isn't it?.
Listen. I'm Craig Schwartz, just starting out at LesterCorp.
How dreary  to be  Somebody / How public  like a Frog / To tell one's name  the livelong June / To an admiring Bog!
Emily Dickinson.
I wouldn't know.
Yes, well...
You know, I've been thinking about what you said yesterday, about the orientation film being a coverup. I think you're on to something.
And fifty other lines to get into a girl's pants.
No, really.
You know, if you ever got me, you wouldn't have a clue what to do with me. That's the thing, Romeo.
What?
I just wanted to say hi. Did you know I still don't know your name or where you work?
Yeah.
How about this, if I can guess your first name within three tries, you have to come out for a drink with me tonight.
Why not?
Great. Buuuhhppaahhhhnnn. . . . . Muhhhahhhhh. . . . . ahhhnnnaaa. . nollltuuukkkaaaaralllll. . . tashabararassssssuuuuusaaaaaaa. . . nnnnnnnaaaaaannnnnnnnncccccceeeeeee Mwaaaaaa. . . . .Mahhhhhkkkkk. . . sssseeeeeen. Maxine?
Who told you?
I'm right?
Who told you?
That's incredible! Nobody told me! I swear! It's kismet. Maxine! It's a beautiful name. There's a psychic connection. Don't you see? It was meant to be! Maxine! Maxine! Maxine! I will shout it from the rooftops!
Somebody told you.
Oh, Maxine, nobody told me. Maxine, Maxine. It just came out of me like a song, Maxine. A beautiful crazy, song, Maxine. Maxine. Maxine!
I am dubious, but I don't welsh. Meet me at The Stuck Pig. Seven o'clock. You're late, I walk. So help me, if I find out you cheated.
Maxine.
Made it. Maxine. Maxine, Maxine, Maxine.
Just.
Buy you a drink, Maxine?
You married?
Yeah. But enough about me.
What'll you have?
The usual, Barry.
I'll have, like, a beer. Like a Budweiser, or something.
I like you. I don't know what it is exactly.
My tits?
No, no, it's your energy or your attitude or the way you carry yourself or...
Christ, you're not a fag are you? Because I don't want to be wasting my time.
That's the usual?
Dont let the girly shit fool you. It'd blow your shorts off.
Im not a homosexual. I just like women for more than their bodies. I guess you could say I'm the new American male.
You're a fag or a liar.
I mean, I am really attracted to you.
I mean, I am really attracted to you. Jesus, you are a fag. We can share recipes, if you like, Darlene.
No, wait! I like your tits. I love your tits. I want to fuck you.
Good. Now we're getting somewhere. Not a chance.
So, tell me about yourself. If you can get your mind out of the gutter long enough, dogboy.
Well, I'm a puppeteer...
Hi.
You're not someone I could get interested in. Craig. You play with dolls.
Puppets. Maxine. It's the idea of being inside someone else, feeling what they feel, seeing what they see...
Yikes.
Please, let me explain.
It's just, and I've never done this before, Maxine, but it's just that I feel something for you. I've never felt this before for anyone, not even my wife. My future is with you, Maxine.
You might want to check those tarot cards one more time.
Don't you want to know what happened to me?
No.
This is important!
It better be.
There's a tiny door in that empty office. It's a portal, Maxine. It takes you inside John Malkovich. You see the world through John Malkovich's eyes, then, after about fifteen minutes, you're spit out into a ditch on the side of The New Jersey Turnpike.
Sounds delightful. Who the fuck is John Malkovich?
He's an actor. One of the great American actors of the 20th century.
What's he been in?
Lots of things. He's very well respected. That jewel thief movie, for example. The point is that this is a very odd thing, supernatural, for lack of a better word. It raises all sorts of philosophical questions about the nature of self, about the existence of the soul. Am I me? Is Malkovich Malkovich? Was the Buddha right, is duality an illusion? Do you see what a can of worms this portal is? I don't think I can go on living my life as I have lived it. There's only one thing to do. Let's get married right away.
Is this Malkovich fellow appealing?
Yes, of course. He's a celebrity.
Good. We'll sell tickets.
Tickets to Malkovich?
Exactly. Two hundred dollars a pop.
But there's something profound here, Maxine, we can't exploit it.
Fine. I'll do it myself. I was going to offer a partnership to you, but this way it's more money for me.
You wanted to be partners with me?
Sure. It'd be fun.
Really? But, Maxine, can of worms! End of the world! Illusory nature of existence!
I'll protect you, Dollface.
Okay. Here it is. Ever want to be someone else? Now you can. No kidding. Only two hundred dollars for fifteen minutes. Visit J.M. Inc., MertinFlemmer Building. etc., etc.
Sounds good. Oblique but intriguing. Phone it in.
Craig, I just don't find you attractive. And, Lotte, I'm smitten with you, but only when you're in Malkovich. When I looked into his eyes last night, I could feel you peering out. Behind the stubble and the tooprominent brow and the male pattern baldness, I sensed your feminine longing peering out, and it just slew me.
My God.
This is amazing! We're gonna be rich!
So unbolt the fucking door, Einstein.
You're late.
Are you torturing me on purpose?
I've fallen in love.
I don't think so. I've fallen in love. This is what people who've fallen in love look like.
You picked the unrequited variety. Very bad for the skin.
You're evil, Maxine.
Do you have any idea what its like to have two people look at you with total lust and devotion through the same pair of eyes? No I don't suppose you would. It's quite a thrill, Craig.
You're glowing again.
A girl has a right to glow if she wants. It's in the fucking constitution.
Lotte, this is so good...
Move right hand across her left breast now. Move right hand across her left breast now. Move right hand across her left breast now.
Lotte? Is that you?
Yes, yes, sweetheart, yes!
Let him try.
Of course, right this way, Mr. Malkovich. Compliments of the house.
What happens when a man climbs through his own portal?
How the hell would I know? I wasn't a philosophy major.
But I gotta go now. I've got to go be Johnny.
J.M. Inc. Be all that someone...
Come in, Mr. Juarez. I'd stand, but, well, you know.
Actually, my name is Craig Schwartz, Dr. Lester.
Security.
No, it's okay, sir. Just a mixup with your secretary.
She's not my secretary. She's what they call an executive liaison, and I'm not banging her, if that's what youre implying.
Not at all, Dr. Lester. I simply misspoke.
Tell me, Dr. Schwartz, what do you feel you can bring to LesterCorp?
Well, sir, I'm an excellent filer.
You think so, eh? Which comes first, L or... Glooph?
Glooph is not a letter, sir.
Damn, you are good. I tried to trick you. Okay, put these in order.
You don't have a speech impediment, Dr. Lester.
Flattery will get you everywhere, my boy. But I'm afraid I have to trust Floris on this one. You see, she has her doctorate in speech impedimentology from Case Western. Perhaps you've read her memoirs, "I can't understand a word any of you are saying."
No.
Pity, it tells it like it is. That's why the eastern, read Jewish, publishing establishment won't touch it. That's a quote from the book jacket. George Will, I think. I apologize if you can't understan a word I'm saying, Dr. Schwartz.
No. I understand perfectly.
Thank you for being kind enough to lie. You see, I've been very lonely in my isolated tower of indecipherable speech. You're hired. Any questions?
Just one. Why is this floor so short?
Low overhead, m'boy. We pass the savings on to you. But seriously, that's all covered in orientation.
Don't toy with Floris, Schwartz. Why, if I were eighty years younger, I'd box your ears.
I wasn't toying with her, sir. I was just... How old are you?
One hundred and five. Carrot juice. Lot's of it. I swear, it's almost not worth it. I piss orange. Oh, and I, have to piss sitting down... like a godamn girly... every fifteen minutes. But nobody wants to die, Schwartz.
I'll keep that in mind, sir.
No sirebob, I don't die. But what I do is get older, wrinkled like a former plum that's become the wrinkled prune you see before you. Oh, to be a young man again, maybe then Floris would care for me.
The elderly have so much to offer, sir. They are our link with history.
I don't want to be your godamn link, damn you. I want to feel Floris' naked thighs against my own. I want to know passion. I want my body to inspire lust in that beautiful, complex woman. I want her to shiver in a spasm of ecstasy when I penetrate her. Oh, God, the agony of the flesh, Schwartz.
Dr. Lester, while I am flattered that you share your feelings with me, I believe perhaps the workplace is not the most suitable environment for this type of discussion.
All right. Meet me at the JuicyJuice Juice Bar after work today and I'll spill my goddamn guts for you.
Imagine a room full of women. Nubile, blonde, wet with desire, Schwartz. A harem, if you will. Me in leather. A harness, if you like. I am the object of this desire, and all eyes are on me as I speak. Ladies, I begin. I am the love god, Eros. I intoxicate you. My spunk is to you manna from heaven...
Dr. Lester, it's been really fascinating, but I'm afraid I have to get home to my wife now.
Wife, huh? I'd love to meet her, Craig.
Yessir.
Shall we say dinner on Friday. Just the two of us? You can come too if you like, Schwartz.
That's sounds fine, sir. Gotta run.
Dr. Lester. . .
Ah, Craig. Just the fellow I wanted to see. Juicer! Easy as pie. Just keep your fingers clear of the blade, and never, never use it while bathing in a tub full of water.
Dr. Lester, I have a question. I was in that vacant office down the hall and I stumbled upon a little door and....
Ah. yes, the little door. There is a short film on the little door in the orientation room in exactly two minutes. If you hurry, you'll just make it.
Thank you, sir.
Dr. Lester...
More beetspinach juice, my friend?
No thank you sir. It's delicious, though. I just wanted to thank you for the opportunity to work at LesterCorp, but I'm afraid I'm going to have to tender my resignation effectively immediately.
I see. Are you unhappy at our little company?
No sir, not at all. It's just that I'm going to open my own business and...
And what sort of business will this be? If you don't mind my asking.
Uh, importexport. Olive oil. Right on 7 1/2 actually. In the vacant office. So we'll still be seeing each other.
The vacant office. I see. Olive oil. Interesting. Be warned, Schwartz, there are certain doors which should never be opened.
You're making a big mistake, Schwartz. Ma'am
Dr. Lester, I don't know what you're talking about.
There are rules, boy, procedures, etiquette. This is not a toy. I've been waiting seventy years to utilize this room, grooming myself, quietly setting the stage, performing ablutions, paying tribute, seeing all his motion pictures again and again. Worshipping, Schwartz, worshipping properly.
You're insane.
I am not alone. There are others. We are legion. You will pay for this blasphemy. You will pay dearly.
Welcome to LesterCorp. May we meet your filing needs?
No, uh, my name is Craig Schwartz. I have an interview with Mr. Lester.
Please have a seat, Mr. Juarez...
Schwartz.
Pardon?
Schwartz.
I'm sorry, I'm afraid I have no idea what you're saying right now.
My name is Schwartz.
Money, Miss Warts?
Forget it.
Mr. Juarez?
Yes?
Yex?
I said "yes."
You suggest what? I have no time for piddling suggestions from mumbling job applicants, my good man. Besides, Dr. Lester will see you now. I think that's what he said.
You're not like the other boys we've had here. Granted, I can't understand what you're saying either, but your soft palette resonates tremendously well and you never ever constrict your epiglottis.
I am a trained performer.
Music to my ears! Whatever you said. Speak, speak, speak, my magnificent friend, speak!
Floris, you're very nice, but I'm afraid Im in love with somebody else.
I'm afraid I... have no idea what you are saying... you bastard!
Maxine...
I can't believe it. This is too good to be true.
Holy shit, yes!
Holy shit, yes!
Holy shit! He said what I said!
Holy shit! He said what I said!
Mr. Malkovich, my name is Craig Schwartz. I can explain. We operate a little business her that... simulates, for our clientele, the experience of... being you, actually.
Simulates?
Sure, after a fashion.
Let me try.
You? Why I'm sure it would pale in comparison to the actual experience.
Let me try!
So how was it?
That... was... no... simulation.
I know. I'm sorry...
I have been to the dark side. I have seen a world that no man should ever see.
Really? For most people it's a rather pleasant experience. What exactly did you...
This portal is mine and must be sealed up forever. For the love of God.
With all respect, sir, I discovered that portal. Its my livelihood.
It's my head, Schwartz, and I'll see you in court!
Morning.
Gotta run. Shipment of grub worms coming in first thing.
Enjoy.
Craig, listen, honey, I've been thinking... maybe you'd feel better if you got, you know, a job or something.
We've been over this. Nobody's looking for a puppeteer in today's wintry economic climate.
Well, you know, maybe something else until this whole puppet thing turns around.
The Great Mantini doesn't need a day job.
Craig, everyone can't be Derek Mantini. Well, grub worms are waiting. Do me a favor?
What?
Would you check in on Elijah? He seems to be a little under the weather this morning.
Which one is Elijah again?
The monkey.
Yeah. Okay.
Is the trial date set?
May 11th.
Why'd you do it, Craig?
I'm a puppeteer.
Why, Craig. why?
I... puppeteer.
Isn't that cute? I just taught her that.
Adorable. What time are they supposed to be here?
Sevenish
We have to make it an early night.
They'll understand. Besides I've got a morning appointment tomorrow with Elijah's shrink. We're getting to the bottom of this acid stomach.
Hmmm.
Some sort of childhood trauma, she thinks. Possible feelings of inadequacy as a chimp. Interesting, huh?
Hmmm.
Yeah, just an idea I had.
She's very beautiful.
Just an idea I had.
Hi.
Hi.
Sorry, I'm so late. Lester just wouldn't let me go. Were supposed to have dinner with him on Friday. I can get us out of it if you want. He's really amazing, this insane old lech. It's actually sort of amusing when you get past just how disgusting it is.
Did you eat?
Nah. I'm not hungry. I'm sorry I didn't call. It was just, you know, hard to get away.
I was worried.
I'm sorry. How was your evening?
TomTom's puncture wound is infected.
The ferret?
The iguana.
Right.
I dressed the wound. Then I've just been feeding everyone, putting everyone to bed.
Yeah. You want a beer?
No thanks. I'm going to turn in.
All right. I'll be in my workshop for a little while. I'll be in in a little while. I need to unwind a little. I'll be in soon. A little while.
'kay.
Don't be ridiculous. There is no such thing as a portal into someone else's brain.
Brain. soul, I'm telling you, Lotte. I was right inside him looking out. We're going to be rich.
I want to try.
What?
I want to be John Malkovich. Tomorrow morning. Plus I'd like to meet this partner of yours.
Well, you know we're going to be very busy tomorrow. I'll tell you what. Let's do it tonight. Right now.
Now?
Yeah. We'll do it right now. On the way to Lester's house.
I'll meet you on the turnpike.
I'm scared.
I have to go back.
Okay. Maybe tomorrow.
I have to go back now.
We'll talk about it in the car.
I have to go back, Craig. Being inside did something to me. All of a sudden everything made sense. I knew who I was.
You weren't you. You were John Malkovich.
I was, wasn't I? I was John fucking Malkovich! Take me back, Craig.
Tomorrow. We're late for Lester.
Lotte! Why aren't you at the pet shop?
Fuck pets. Is this your partner? I had to come back and do the Malkovich ride again. Fuck everything else. Is this her?
Why aren't you at work?
I've been going over and over my experience last night. It was amazing. I've decided I'm a transsexual. Isn't that the craziest thing?
What, are you nuts? That's Oprah talking.
Everything felt right for the first time. I need to go back to make sure, then if the feeling is still there. I'm going to speak to Dr. Feldman about sexual reassignment surgery.
This is absurd. Besides Feldman's an allergist. If you're going to do something, do it right.
How was it?
I have to go back tonight. At eight Exactly.
Why?
Don't crowd me, Craig.
So how was it? What was he doing?
Oh, you know, not a lot. Just hanging around his apartment. I think he must be a lonely man.
You see, men can feel unfulfilled, too. I'm glad you're realizing that. You shouldn't be so quick to assume that switching bodies would be the answer to all your problems.
You're right. You know I was thinking that we should have Maxine over for dinner. Since you two are partners and all. It might be a nice gesture.
I don't know. There's some tension between us. I'd hate to expose you to that.
It'll be okay. I'll fix my lasagna. Well smoke a joint. Tensions will melt away.
Did you know that Eskimos have not one, but fifty words for snow. It's because they have so much of it.
After dinner I'll show you my puppets.
What are you doing?
I'm moving. Remember? What's with the hooded cloak?
Nothing. Don't go, Craig. I've been thinking. Let's try to work this out. We've got so much history.
You should feed your animals. They're looking peaked.
I'm getting rid of the fucking animals.
What?
I'm getting rid of the animals. I've lost interest. Besides, they're standing between you and me.
No they're not.
You've always hated the animals.
You've always loved the animals.
I'm giving them up. I've changed. I've found a new focus.
What's that?
Us, of course.
What about Maxine?
Fuck Maxine.
We wish.
You were him last night, weren't you?
Yes.
And he was with her.
We love her, Craig. I'm sorry.
We?
Me and John.
Don't forget me.
Well, you have the Maxine action figure to play with.
I'm sorry. That was nasty.
Life is confusing, isn't it?
Sometimes we're forced to make hard decisions. I'd like for us to stay together, Craig. You know, platonically, if that's possible. I truly value our friendship.
I feel that somehow my parents never prepared me to make this particular decision. Not that I blame them. How could they know? Today's world is so complicated. No. I have to go away now. I'm sorry, Lotte. I'm so sorry.
I'm your Goddamn wife. Once you vowed to cherish me forever. Now you hold a gun to my head?
Yeah, well welcome to the nineties.
Suck my dick!
Shut up!
Tell her you need to see her.
You bastard.
Tell her, what the hell, close early today, live dangerously.
What the hell, darling. Close early today, live dangerously.
It was lovely being you being Malkovich, my dear. I'd never seen the passionate side of sweet Maxine before, or her actual tits for that matter. If only, I've been thinking to myself, if only I could actually feel what Malkovich feels, rather than just see what he sees... And then, dare I say it, if only I could control his arms, his legs, his pelvis, and make them do my bidding.
It'll never happen, fuckface.
Ah, but you're forgetting one thing, Lambchop.
What's that?
I'm a puppeteer.
Once this was a relationship based on love. Now you have me in a cage with a monkey and a gun to my head.
Things change. Anyway, you gave up your claim to that love the first time you stuck your dick in Maxine.
You fell in love with her first.
Yeah but I didn't do anything about it. Out of respect for our marriage.
You didn't do anything about it out of respect for the fact that she wouldn't let you near her with a ten foot pole, which is, by the way, about nine feet, nine inches off the mark anyway.
That's true. Oh, God, Lotte, what have I become? My wife in a cage with a monkey. A gun in my hand. Betrayal in my heart.
Maybe this is what you've always been, Craig, you just never faced it before.
Perhaps you're right. I can't let you go though. Too much has happened. You're my ace in the hole.
I need a shower.
I'm sorry. Oh God, I'm sorry. I'm some kind of monster. I'm the guy you read about in the paper and go, "he's some kind of monster."
You're not a monster, Craig. Just a confused man.
I love you so much.
My God!
I'm so glad you're safe. You look really wonderful.
I'm in love. For the first time. It's funny, but when it happens to you, there's no question.
He's a lucky man. Do I know him?
It's Elijah.
The iguana?
The monkey.
Oh, right. As long as you're happy. I'm sure he's a better lover than I ever was.
A better friend.
I'm sorry for everything.
It's okay, Craig. It all worked out, in an odd sort of way.
You came up here looking for the portal?
Yeah. I was going to kill him from the inside.
And yourself too in the process. God, you're so beautiful. Why couldn't I see that before?
You saw it once. Now you see it again. That's life, isn't it? And you were up here to try the same thing, weren't you?
I suppose. But they got here first, the lousy bastards. So now it's all over, I guess.
I don't know. There's a small community of us. We have a place they don't know about. We're happy. We'll keep trying to figure out a way. Come stay with us. Join the struggle.
You'll have me, after all I've done to you?
People make mistakes.
I'm through with puppets, Lotte. I just want you to know that.
I know.
I'd like to be a farmer. I want to help things grow, to encourage life. Do you and your friends need a farmer?
Sure. We could really use a farmer. We'd be grateful for the help. Also, I think, you know, if you wouldn't mind too terribly, a little puppet show every once in a while, would do a lot to lift our spirits. You know, if you wouldn't mind too terribly.
Hello, I'm here about the ad.
Please, have a seat.
When you say, I can be somebody else, what do you mean exactly?
Exactly that. We can put you inside someone else's body for fifteen minutes.
Oh, this is just the medical breakthrough I've been waiting for. Are their any side effects? Please say no! Please say no!
Oh, thank you! Thank you! Thousand times, thank you!
Tell your friends.
Oh, I will, and I have many, many friends and associates, my friend. All, by the way, in Overeaters Anonymous. All of them fat and alone like me, all of them dream of being someone else, all of them with John Malkovich as their second choice!
Say, aren't you that actor guy?
Yeah.
John Makel...
Malkovich.
Malkovich!
Thank you.
The one where you're that jewel thief.
I never played a jewel thief.
Who am I thinking of?
I don't know.
I'm pretty sure it was you. Hey, could I get your autograph now? It's for .... oh, what the hell, it's for me! I'm your biggest fan!
Yeah, okay.
John! Great to see you! Sorry about the cunt at reception.
This is my fiancee Maxine.
I'll get right to the point, Larry. I'm a puppet now...
Okay.
I'm being controlled by the world's greatest puppeteer, Craig Schwartz...
Oh yeah, he's good.
... and I want to show off his skills by performing a onepuppet extravaganza in Reno.
Ben!
... Mr. President, how good to see you.
It's so good to see you too, Ben, you look terrific!
I'm not convinced of that, Mr. President, but your visit has raised my spirits...
Well, I'm delighted to be here, my friend. I've missed you. Here, sit down, get off your feet.
Mr. President, I'd like you to meet my dear friend, Mr. Chauncey Gardiner.
Mr. Gardiner, my pleasure.
I just wondered if you had gone over my speech, Ben.
Yes, I did.
... Well?
Overall  pretty good. But, Mr. President, I think it's very dangerous to resort to temporary measures at this stage of the game.
Well, Ben... I...
I sympathize with your position, Mr. President, I know how difficult it is to be straightforward, the reaction to such a speech could be chaos.
That's too big a risk, I can't take the chance.
... There is no longer any margin for inflation, it has gone as far as it can, you've reached your limits on taxation, dependence on foreign energy has reached a crisis, and, from where I see it, Mr. President, the Free Enterprise System has reached the breaking point. We are on the brink of another crash from which recovery might not be possible.
It's that serious, huh?
I'm afraid so.
No, she flew up to Boston for another charity event. She'll be sorry to have missed you.
I'm sorry, too. Well, Nancy wanted me to send along her best to the two of you  and, Ben, I want to thank you for your time and thoughts.
Nonsense, Mr. President  I thank you for coming to spend time with a dying man.
Now, Ben, I won't have any of that. Why don't you listen to your good friend Chauncey this is a time to think of life!
You're right, Mr. President I don't like feeling sorry for myself.
Take care of yourself, Ben.
You take care too, Bobby.
Mr. Gardiner...
The rankandfile in the FBI feel he is FBI, but others feel he is a CIA man who knows how to destroy FBI files.
That could be possible...
But we are quite certain, comrade, that this man Gardiner is a leading member of an American elitist faction planning a coup d'etat.
A coup d'etat! Of course, that was foreseen by Lenin himself!
That is correct, Comrade Skrapinov. We have ascertained that Gardiner heads a bigbusiness power group that will soon be taking over the American government.
Big business. I could work with that faction quite nicely, Colonel Novogrod.
You have proven that already, Comrade Skrapinov, you are to be congratulated for recognizing the importance of this man and establishing an early friendship.
Thank you, Colonel.
Let us toast to the success of the coup.
Kaufman, I'm going to need information on Mr. Chauncey Gardiner's background.
Gardiner, yes, sir.
And put it through on a Code Red  I want it as soon as possible.
No problem, Chief.
... Gentlemen, I quoted this man on national television today he is obviously a financial sophisticate of some reknown.
Yes, sir  we are aware of all that, but still, we haven't been able to...
He's an advisor and close personal friend of Rand's! For Christ sakes, they have volumes of data on Benjamin!
Yes, Mr. President, we attempted to contact Mr. Rand, but he was too ill to...
I do not want Benjamin Rand disturbed! You have other ways of gathering information than to trouble a dying man. Use whatever agencies are necessary to put together a detailed history of Chauncey Gardiner, if you run into problems, alert Honeycutt. I'll be in the office at seven in the morning and I would like to have it at that time. I've got to take a leak.
Right, Chief.
This is not what I requested.
No, sir.
This information goes back three days. I want the standard file, you know that.
Right, Chief.
So...? Where the hell is it?
We... uh, have been unable to come up with any information before the man appeared at Mr. Rand's home ... and, uh...
What the hell are you talking about, Kaufman?
Well, we do have data from Honeycutt's sources, Chief  but it isn't pertinent.
I'd like to hear that data, Kaufman.
Yes, sir.
... So what does all that add up to?
Well, sir  it occurred to us that he might be an agent of a foreign power. But, we ruled that out, as they invariably are provided with too much documentation, too much American identity... We, uh...don't quite know what to make of it yet, sir... But we'll keep on top of it, Mr. President  we'll come up with the answer.
I would appreciate that.
Sorry to disturb you, chief but we have new developments.
Oh? What?
We have word that the Soviets have put out a top priority alert for information on Gardiner's background. So far, they haven't come up with a thing  what's more, as a result of their eagerness, one of their ablest agents blew his cover, we have him in custody at this time.
Good. Anything else?
Yes, chief  eight other foreign powers have put Gardiner under surveillance. We're aroundthe clock now, sir  I'll keep you posted.
Yes? What have you found?
We have nothing on him, Ambassador Skrapinov.
Quietly, please. Mr. Gardiner, for one, understands our language.
Sorry, Comrade Ambassador.
What do you mean there is nothing? That's impossible.
There is no information available on the man before he moved into Benjamin Rand's. It has proven to be such a difficult task that it has resulted in the loss of one of our agents to the United States Government.
But... Where was this man Gardiner before last week?
Apparently the White House shares our curiosity  they have also launched an investigation, and, according to our sources, neither the F.B.I. nor the C.I.A. has met with success.
I see. Clearly, such interest on their part is of great political significance.
Clearly, yes comrade.
Hmmm... Take this down. I want this quote included in the Tass coverage; 'Chauncey Gardiner, in an intimate discussion with Ambassador Skrapinov, noted that "Unless the leaders of the opposing political systems move the chairs on which they sit closer to each other, all of their seats will be pulled from under them by rapid social and political changes."'
Very good, Your Excellency.
It's that gardener!
Yes, Chauncey Gardiner.
No! He's a real gardener!
He does talk like one, but I think he's brilliant.
... Business, bullshit! Going out in the middle of the night to meet that bitch in a bar...
Sally Hayes is not a bitch  she's a damn fine attorney! I've got to talk to her about this Gardiner...
Good night.
Look, Johanna...
I said good night!
... This is another world, Tom  I never would have believed it...
Yeah... He and my father used to ride together back in the thirties... Fox hunting... Before I was born...
... Would you take me on a tour?
Gladly... ... The safe is in Mr. Jennings' bedroom, that'll be stop number one.
... What do you make of all this?
I really don't know, Tom  he seems so honest and simple... In a way, he's quite charming...
... Yeah...
... It's very bizarre  I don't know what to think...
Well... He's either very, very bright or very, very dense  he's hard to figure... ... Let's just keep everything legal.
... How are the kids getting along?
Oh. Well, I just talked to Cindy this morning. She loves California, but to quote her, she says, 'The Secret Service is getting to be a drag.' I guess she wants her privacy...
Huh... I'm glad they're along with her, if you know what I mean... How about Jack?
Well, I think Jack needs some time alone with you, darling... He's getting to that age, you know... He really misses you...
Yeah... I'll have a talk with him as soon as...
... Maybe you should talk to somebody, darling.
No, that won't do any good.
... Is it me? Is there something I've done?
Oh, no, sweetheart  it's not you...
It's your damn job. It never happened when you were a senator...
It's not that, I just...
I can certainly understand that...
Of course... I'm so sorry for you, Eve...
Eve, child! How nice of you to come.
Hello, Sophie.
And look who you brought with!
Sophie, this is Chauncey Gardiner...
Oh, I've been just dying to meet you, Mr. Gardiner!
Chauncey, this is Mrs. Sophia Rowley.
Come on, Eve. Let's let the men talk, there are so many people that have been asking about you.
Would you two excuse me for a moment?
Good evening, Mrs. Rand.
Good evening, Wilson.
I shall take the gentleman to the third floor guest suite, ma'am. Dr. Allenby is standing by.
Thank you, Wilson. That will be fine.
Thank you, Greta. I'll be with Mr. Rand if I'm needed.
Yes, ma'am.
I'll see you after the doctor has a look at your leg, Mr. Gardiner.
Oh, Ben  I miss you so when I'm out... How are you feeling?
Tired... And I'm getting tired of being so tired. Other than that, I'm doing very well.
No headaches?
No, it's been a good day  better than yours, from what I've been told.
You heard?
I may be a shutin, but I do not lack for news. I'm sorry you had to go through all that.
Oh, it wasn't all that bad, darling. We were fortunate that Mr. Gardiner turned out to be so reasonable.
Reasonable? Good, I'd like to meet a reasonable man. Why don't you ask this Gardiner to join us for dinner?
Do you feel well enough for that?
Hah!... Tell me the truth, Eve  if I wait until I feel better, will I ever meet the man?
Oh. I'm very sorry. Well, if you have any need for any of our facilities, please do not hesitate to ask.
Do you need a secretary?
I'm becoming quite attached to Chauncey  quite attached... ... And so are you, aren't you, Eve.
... Yes, I am, Ben.
That's good... That's good.
... Ben, really...
... Thank you, Chauncey... Thank you very much. ... All right, Robert, I'm all yours.
... Gardiner is laconic, matterof fact. The scuttlebutt is that he's a strong candidate for one of the vacant seats on the board of First American. But before we can do any sort of a piece on the man, we're going to need facts on his background... ... Kinney, what did you come up with?
... Nothing.
... Skip the levity, Kinney  what have you got?
... I realize this sounds banal but there is no information of any sort on Gardiner. We have no material on him  zilch...
... Sid, be reasonable  I've been everywhere, there's no place left to check!
Try again.
Sure, try again  where? There's nothing, it's like he never existed!
Try again.
Sid, it's useless!
I said  try again.
Good morning, Mr. President.
... Hello.
You look much taller on television, Mr. President.
... Oh, really...
Well, Mr. Gardiner, that's just fine with me  I'm a man that appreciates a frank discussion... Be seated, please, Mr. Gardiner...
Yes, I will.
Now, Ben, did you happen to get a chance to...
Do you agree with Ben, Mr. Gardiner? Are we finished? Or do you think we can stimulate growth through temporary incentives?
As long as the roots are not severed, all is well and all will be well in the garden.
... In the garden?
That is correct. In a garden, growth has its season. There is spring and summer, but there is also fall and winter. And then spring and summer again...
... Spring and summer... Yes, I see... Fall and winter. Yes, indeed... Could you go through that one more time, please, Mr. Gardiner?
Yes. It has.
... You will honor me and my family with a visit, won't you?
Yes. I will.
Wonderful, we'll all look forward to seeing you. Is Eve around? I'd like to say hello.
Hello, Thomas... I'm Chance, the gardener.
... The gardener? ... Yes, of course... Mr. Chance, this is Ms. Hayes.
... We're with Franklin, Jennings and Roberts, the law firm handling the estate.
Yes, Thomas  I understand.
... Are you waiting for someone? An appointment?
Yes. I'm waiting for my lunch.
Your lunch? You have a luncheon appointment here?
Yes. Louise will bring me lunch.
Louise?... The maid?... But she should have left earlier today...
I see...
... You've quite a sense of humor, Mr. Chance  but all kidding aside, may I ask just what you are doing here?
I live here.
You live here? ... We don't have any record of that.
Yes. It's very cold outside today, isn't it, Thomas?
... How long have you been living here?
Ever since I can remember, since I was a child.
Since you were a child?
Yes, Thomas. I have always been here. I have always worked in the garden.
Do you have any proof of your employment, Mr. Chance  any checks from the deceased, any contracts or documents?
No.
How were you compensated for these duties you say you performed?
Compensated...?
How were you paid?
I was given meals, and a home...
Mr. Chance, perhaps you could show us some identification with your address  a Driver's License, a credit card, checkbook?
No, I do not have any of those.
Then how about medical records? Could you give us the name of your doctor, or your dentist?
I have no need for a doctor or dentist. I have never been ill. I have never been allowed outside of this house, and, except for Joe, I have never had any visitors.
... Joe? Who's Joe?
Joe Saracini. He was a mason that did some repairs on the brickwork at the rear of the house. That was in 1952.
1952...?
Yes. I remember when he came. He was very fat and had short hair and showed me some pictures from a funny little book.
Mr. Chance, that was twentyseven years ago.
Yes and the Old Man used to come to my garden. He would read and rest there.
Come now, Mr. Jennings had been bedridden for thirtyfive years, since he fractured his spine.
Yes, Thomas, that is correct. Then he stopped visiting my garden.
... We shall need some proof of your having resided here, Mr. Chance.
You have me, I am here. What more proof do you need?
Have you served in the Army?
No, Thomas. But I have seen the Army on television.
Those trees were very young when I first arrived.
Are you related to the deceased, Mr. Chance?
No, I don't think so. And I have planted and shaped all the hedges, and in the springtime you will be able to see my flowers.
... Do you drive this, Mr. Chance?
No, Thomas. I have never been in an automobile.
The Old Man gave me nice television sets, this one has remote control. He has one just like it.
Mr. Chance, the fact remains that we have no information of your having any connection with the deceased.
Yes, I understand.
What are your plans now, Mr. Chance?
I would like to stay and work in my garden.
Mr. Chance, assuming what you say is the truth, I would like to know what sort of claim you are planning to make against the deceased's estate.
I'm fine, Thomas. The garden is a healthy one. There is no need for a claim.
Good. That's good. Then if you would please sign a paper to that effect.
No, Thomas. I don't know how to sign.
Come now, Mr. Chance.
I have no claim, Thomas.
But you won't sign, correct?
Correct.
Very well, Mr. Chance  if you insist on dragging this matter on... But I must inform you this house will be closed tomorrow at noon. If indeed, you do reside here, you will have to move out.
Move out? I don't understand, Thomas.
I think you do, Mr. Chance. However, I will reiterate, this house is closed and you must leave... Call me if you change your mind about signing. C'mon, Sally  let's grab a bite...
Mr. Gardiner, how very nice to have you with us this evening.
Yes.
I'd like to thank you for filling in on such short notice for the Vice President.
You're welcome.
I always find it surprising, Mr. Gardiner, to find men like yourself, who are working so intimately with the President, yet manage to remain relatively unknown.
Yes. That is surprising.
... Well, your anonymity will be a thing of the past from now on.
I hope so.
Yes... Of course, you know, Mr. Gardiner, that I always prefer an open and frank conversation with my guests, I hope you don't object to that.
No. I don't object.
Fine, then let's get started. The current state of our country is of vital interest to us all, and I would like to know if you agree with the President's view of the economy?
Which view?
Come now, Mr. Gardiner, before his speech at the Financial Institute the President consulted with you and Benjamin Rand, did he not?
Yes. I was there with Ben.
I know that, Mr. Gardiner.
Yes.
Well, let me rephrase the question; the President compared the economy of this country to a garden, and stated that after a period of decline a time of growth would naturally follow. Do you go along with this belief?
Yes, I know the garden very well. I have worked in it all my life. It is a good garden and a healthy one; its trees are healthy and so are its shrubs and flowers, as long as they are trimmed and watered in the right seasons. The garden needs a lot of care. I do agree with the President; everything in it will grow strong, and there is plenty of room in it for new trees and new flowers of all kinds.
Don't we need a leader capable of guiding us through the seasons? The bad as well as the good?
Yes. We need a very good gardener.
Well, Mr. Gardiner, from the sound of our audience, I'd say that your words are a most welcome respite from what we've been hearing from others...
Thank you.
I'm sorry to say that our time is running short, but before we close, I'd like to ask one final question. What sort of gardener, sir, would you be?
I am a very serious gardener.
... Evening, Chance.
... Good evening, Louise.
... The Old Man is getting weaker, Chance.
I see.
I'm afraid he's slippin' a bit with every hour that goes by...
... Back up those stairs  damn... That Man's needin' me more and more just before he never needs me again...
Is his back feeling better?
Good morning, Louise.
He's dead, Chance! The Old Man's dead!
... I see.
Must of happened durin' the night, I don't know... Lord, he wasn't breathin' and as cold as a fish. I touched him, just to see, and you believe me, Chance  that's doin' more than I get paid to do... Then I just covered him up, pulled the sheet over his head...
Yes. I've seen that done.
Then I got the hell out of that room and called the doctor and I think I woke him probably, he wasn't any too alert. He just said, 'Yeah, he's been expectin' it and said he'd send somebody over...' Lord, what a mornin'!
... Yes, Louise, it's snowing in the garden today. Have you looked outside and seen the snow? It's very white.
Dammit, Boy! Is that all you got to say? More gobbledegook? That Old Man's layin' up there dead as hell and it just don't make any difference to you!
Yes, Louise. I have seen it often. It happens to old people.
Well, ain't that the truth...
Yes. It is.
Oh, Lord, Chance  I don't know what I was expectin' from you... I'm sorry for yellin' like I did... No sir, I just don't know what I was expectin' ... ... I 'spose I'd better gather up some breakfast for you...
Yes, I'm very hungry.
Well, no more stewin' those prunes every mornin', that's somethin', I guess... ... what are you goin' to do now, Chance?
I'm going to work in the garden.
... Well, ain't you the gentleman this mornin'... ... gotta go now, Chance...
Yes.
You're gonna need somebody, someone's gotta be around for you, boy... ... You oughta find yourself a lady, Chance... But I guess it oughta be an old lady, 'cause you ain't gonna do a young one any good, not with that little thing of yours... ... You're always gonna be a little boy, ain't you? ... Goodbye, Chance...
Does it have a television?
No  but Mr. Rand does have one with an electric motor, that way he can get around by himself.
I see.
How long do we stay in here?
How long? I don't know, see what the doctor says ...
... That is a very small room.
Yes sir, I guess that's true smallest room in the house.
Yes. It seems to be.
... Hmmm... Elevator.
... Yes sir  elevator!
This is terrible, sir  I hope you're not badly injured...
No. I'm not badly injured. But my leg is very sore.
Can you walk? It's not broken, is it?
It's very sore.
I don't think we should call anyone just yet, it may not even be all that serious.
I agree.
Let's have a look, do you mind?
Of course. I would like to look.
It's starting to swell, is it painful?
Yes.
Please, sir.
I've never ridden in an automobile.
I assure you, sir, David is a very careful driver. Please, won't you let us take you?
... Yes. You can take me.
Very good.
... My suitcase.
Yes sir. I'll take care of that.
Mr. Chance, I'm very pleased to meet you.
Yes.
... Then you really are a gardener?
Yes.
Your appearance doesn't suggest that at all, Mr. Chance.
Oh. Thank you.
What about money?
I never needed money.
Some pictures...?
Yes. Of men and women.
... Oh.
How about taxes, Mr. Chance, surely you must have paid taxes?
No.
Might you have a birth certificate, Mr. Chance?
No. That's where Joe fixed the bricks.
I am allowed to go to the attic and select any of the Old Man's suits. They all fit me very well. I can also take his shirts, shoes and coats.
It is quite amazing how those clothes have come back into style.
Yes. I have seen styles on television.
Good day, Mr. Chance.
Good day, Sally.
May I help you, Mr. Gardiner?
Yes. I would like to go to Rand Memorial Hospital.
... Sir?
Yes.
... Did you wish to see someone, sir?
Yes, I would like to see Ben.
Oh, Mr. Rand, of course. Right this way, sir.
Mr. Gardiner, I'm Ronald Stiegler, of Harvard Books.
Hello, Ronald.
Mr. Gardiner, my editors and I have been wondering if you'd consider writing a book for us? Something on your political philosophy. What do you say?
I can't write.
Of course, who can nowadays? I have trouble writing a post card to my children! Look, we could give you a six figure advance, provide you with the very best ghostwriter, research assistants, proof readers...
I can't read.
Of course not! No one has the time to read! One glances at things, watches television...
Yes. I like to watch.
Sure you do! No one reads!... Listen, book publishing isn't exactly a bed of roses these days...
What sort of bed is it?
We could do it now, we can go upstairs. ... Please, it's time for us. Come upstairs.
I like to watch.
Watch? You mean just watch me? Doing it alone?
Yes. I like to watch very much.
Well, if that's what you want, then I want it too. We can go this way.
I want to tell Eve.
Tell Eve? You mean Mrs. Rand?
Yes.
Oh, you can tell her later. She'll never miss you in this crowd.
Welcome to Rand Memorial Hospital, Mr. Gardiner.
... I see.
I feel very good in here.
Sure you do. This ward is air tight, I have a little extra oxygen pumped in, keeps my spirits up.
Yes. I like that very much.
Failure of the bone marrow to produce red blood cells... Not a damn thing they can do about it. Oh, they can make me comfortable, prolong my life with steroid therapy and transfusions... And what makes my blood boil, what little I have left, that is, Mr. Gardiner  is that it's generally a young person's disease... Here I am, getting on in years and about to die of a young person's disease...
Yes. You look very sick.
... We're prisoners, Mr. Gardiner  we're prisoners of tubes and technology.
I agree.
... You will join us for dinner, won't you, Mr. Gardiner?
Yes. I am very hungry.
... So am I, my boy  so am I.
No, thank you. My house has been closed.
Oh. When you say 'Your house has been closed', you mean to say that your business was shut down?
Yes. Shut down and locked by the attorneys.
What'd I tell you? Kidlawyers! The S.E.C.! Damn them!
That's good, Mr. Gardiner. Or may I call you Chauncey?
Yes. Chauncey is fine.
And I'm Ben.
Do we have a garden? Hah! Tomorrow, Chauncey, you will see our gardens.
I see. I would like to work in your garden.
A gardener! Well put, Chauncey excellent! Isn't that what a businessman is? A gardener? A person that makes flinty soil productive with the labor of his own hands, who waters it with the sweat from his own brow, and who creates a place of value for his family and community? Yes, Chauncey, what a brilliant metaphor  yes, indeed, a productive businessman is a laborer in his own vineyard.
Thank you, Ben. The garden that I left was such a place. Everything which grew there was with the labor of my own hands. I planted seeds and watered them and watched everything grow.
Bravo!
But I don't have that any more... ... All that's left for me now is the room upstairs.
Now, wait a minute, Chauncey you are young, you are healthy, for God's sake don't give up on yourself! You have to fight! You can't let those bastards keep you down! I don't want to hear any more from you about the 'Room Upstairs'. That's where I'm going soon.
It's a very pleasant room, Ben.
Yes, I'm sure it is. That's what they say, anyway.
No, Ben.
Reluctant to speak, eh, Chauncey? Well, I can understand that. When a man loses everything, anger has a tendency to block out reason for a time. Just give it some thought, work with the idea, I'm sure you'll have plenty to say in a few days.
I could give it some thought, Ben, but my leg is very sore.
... Oh? Robert, take a look, would you?
Chauncey, up and around this morning, are you?
Yes, Ben. My leg is not very sore.
Well, that's good news, my boy.
You're looking much better today, Ben.
Hah! It's all makeup, Chauncey... I asked nurse Teresa to fix me up, I didn't want the President to think I was going to die during our talk.
I understand.
No one likes a dying man, my boy  because few know what death is. All we know is the terror of it. But you're an exception, Chauncey  that's what I admire in you, your marvelous balance. You don't stagger back and forth between fear and hope  you're a truly peaceful man.
Thank you, Ben. ... The nurse did a very good job, Ben.
Yes, when I was younger I had thoughts about public office... But I found, Chauncey  that I was able to contribute more as a private citizen... of course, my wealth provided me with considerable influence, but I've tried, believe me, not to misuse that power... It's extremely important, Chauncey, when one is in a position of eminence, that he does not allow himself to become blinded to the needs of the country... The temptations are strong, and I've been labeled a 'kingmaker' by many, but I have tried to stay open to voices of the people... I have tried to remain honest to myself...
I see, Ben.
... Maybe one day you shall find yourself in a similar position, Chauncey... Maybe one day...
I think what my most insightful friend is saying, Mr. President, is that we welcome the inevitable seasons of nature, yet we are upset by the seasons of our economy.
Yes. That is correct.
He's a decent fellow, the President, isn't he?
Yes, Ben  he is.
He was quite impressed with your comments, Chauncey  he hears my sort of analysis from everyone, but yours, unfortunately  seldom if ever at all.
I'm glad he came, Ben. It was nice talking to the President.
... You know, Chauncey, there's something about you... You're direct, you grasp things quickly and you state them plainly. You don't play games with words to protect yourself. I feel I can speak to you frankly... You know what I was talking to you about last night?
No, Ben.
Oh, sure you do, the financial assistance program. I think you might be just the man to take charge of such an undertaking. I'd like you to meet with the members of the Board, we'll be able to discuss the matter at greater length at that time.
I understand.
And, please, Chauncey  don't rush your decision. I know you're not a man to act on the spur of the moment.
Thank you, Ben.
And now, Chauncey, I'm afraid you must excuse me  I'm very tired all of a sudden.
Certainly, Ben.
Senator Rowley's widow, Sophie, is hosting an evening reception tomorrow evening honoring Ambassador Skrapinov of the Soviet Union... I think it's rather obvious that Robert won't allow me to attend, so  would you go in my place, and escort Eve?
Yes. I would like to escort Eve.
Good. Together, the two of you should create quite a stir  I can already hear the gossip.
... Chauncey... Chauncey...
Yes, Ben  are you going to die now?
... I'm about to surrender the Horn of Plenty for the Horn of Gabriel, my boy...
Oh, I see.
Let me feel the strength in your hand, Chauncey... Let me feel your strength... Yes, that's good... I hope, Chauncey  I hope that you'll stay with Eve... Take care of her, watch over her, she's a delicate flower, Chauncey...
A flower...
She cares for you and she needs your help, Chauncey... there's much to be looked after...
Yes. I would like to do that.
... I've worked very hard and enjoyed my life... I've known success... and I've felt love... My associates, Chauncey  I've talked with them about you... They're eager to meet you... very eager to meet you... I'm very fond of you, Chauncey... And I understand Eve... Tell her that... tell her I'm madly in love with her...
You must sit with us, my friend, we have much to discuss.
I agree.
How is my dear friend Benjamin feeling?
Regretfully, Mrs. Rand  I shall yield the pleasure of your company to others.
Yes, Eve. I shall yield too.
I'm sorry we haven't met sooner, Mr. Gardiner. I had the pleasure of seeing you on television last night and I listened with great interest to your downtoearth philosophy. I'm not surprised that it was so quickly endorsed by the President. ... Tell me, Mr. Gardiner, just how serious is Benjamin's illness? I did not want to upset Mrs. Rand by discussing it in detail.
Ben is very ill.
Yes, so I've heard, a shame... As you know, we in the Soviet Union have the keenest interest in developments of the First American Financial Corporation... We are pleased to hear that you may fill Benjamin's place should he fail to recover. Be seated, please, Mr. Gardiner.
... Mr. Gardiner, I wish to be quite candid  considering the gravity of your economic situation, shouldn't we, the diplomats, and you, the businessman  get together more often?
Yes, I agree, I think so too.
To exchange our thoughts  what does a Russian know about business? On the other hand, what does an American know about diplomacy?
Yes, I understand.
And I have noticed in you a certain reticence regarding political issues  so why not a coming together? An interchange of opinion? We may find, my friend, that we are not so far from each other, not so far!
We are not far... ... our chairs almost touch.
Bravo! Bravo! Our chairs are indeed almost touching! And we want to remain seated on them, correct? We don't want them snatched from under us, am I right? Because if one goes, the other goes, and then  boom! Boom! And we are both down before our time, you see? And neither of us wants that, do you agree?
I certainly do.
Yes. Tell me, Mr. Gardiner  do you by any chance enjoy Krylov's fables? I ask this because there is something... there is something Krylovian about you.
Do you think so? Do you think so?
So you know Krylov!
So you know your Krylov in Russian, do you? Mr. Gardiner, I must confess I had suspected as much all along  I know an educated man when I meet one!
Oh, good.
Yes, it is very good!
Yes, it is. Would you tell me your name again, please?
Ho! Ho! A dash of American humor! Vladimar Skrapinov!
Yes. I like that name very much.
And yours, sir  Chauncey Gardiner! How poetic! Chauncey, a name of uncertain meaning! And Gardiner, a bit of the French, a suggestion of a stroll through the flowers! A beautiful name, my friend!
Yes, Eve. That would be good.
We must speak again, Mr. Gardiner, many times!
Thank you.
Can you see well?
Yes, very well, thank you.
Do you like it?
Yes. It's very tiny, but it's good.
... Are you sure you like it?
Yes, I do, it's very good.
Really? Really!!!
Do you need a doctor? I could call Robert...
I don't want Robert.
I see.
Your foot! Give me your foot!!
Mr. Gardiner, I'm Morton Hull, the producer of 'This Evening.'
Hello, Morton.
Of course, Mr. Gardiner, the fact that you occupy such a position in the world of finance makes you ideally suited to provide our millions of viewers with an explanation of this nation's economic crisis.
I see.
Do you realize, Mr. Gardiner, that more people will be watching you tonight than all those who have seen theater plays in the last forty years?
Yes. It's a very good show.
I'm glad you like it, Mr. Gardiner.
Hello, Mr. Gardiner. This is Sid Courtney, Washington Post.
Hello, Sid.
I'm sorry to disturb you, Mr. Gardiner, I know you must be very busy.
No. I'm not busy.
Then, I'll be brief. I covered the President's speech at the Financial Institute today, and since the Post would like to be as exact as possible, we would appreciate your comments on the meeting that took place between Mr. Rand, the President and yourself.
The President is a nice person. I enjoyed it very much.
Good, sir. And so, it seems, did the President  but we would like to have some facts; such as, uh... What exactly is the relationship between yourself and that of the First American Financial Corporation?
I think you should ask Mr. Rand that.
Of course. But since he is ill I'm taking the liberty of asking you.
Yes, that is correct. I think you should ask Mr. Rand that.
I see. Then one more quick question, Mr. Gardiner; since we at the Post would like to, uh  update our profile on you  what exactly is your business?
I have nothing more to say.
... Won't you let us do something for you? Your leg should be examined, we could take you to a hospital.
There's no need for a hospital.
Why, there certainly is. You must see a doctor, I insist on it. Please, let us take you.
I hope you're comfortable.
Yes. I am.
These can be such trying situations everyone seems to make such a todo over a simple little accident. Of course, they can be very frightening, and I must apologize for David, he's never had an accident before.
Yes. He's a very careful driver.
... Why, yes, he is... Is your leg feeling any better?
It's feeling better, but it's still very sore.
I see. ... Say, would you mind seeing our family doctor?
Your family doctor?
Yes. My husband has been very ill. His doctor and nurses are staying with us. Those hospitals can be so impersonal  why, it might be hours before you are treated...
I agree.
Fine, it will save a lot of unnecessary fuss and it will be so much more pleasant for you... David, we'll just go on home. Jeffrey, would you call and let them know?
Would you care for a drink?
Yes. Thank you.
I would like to watch television.
Oh? Certainly...
Oh, by the way  I'm Eve Rand.
Hello, Eve.
May I ask your name?
My name is Chance.
Pardon me, was that Mr. Chance?
No. I'm a gardener.
Oh... Mr. Gardiner... Mr. Chauncey Gardiner... You're not related to Basil and Perdita Gardiner are you?
No, Eve. I'm not related to Basil and Perdita.
Oh. Well, they're just a wonderful couple, we've been friends for years. We visit their island quite often.
Did you lose something?
Yes. I lost my remote control.
Oh... Well, I'm very sorry...
... I'll feel so relieved after Dr. Allenby examines your leg. After that, David can run you on home, or to your office or wherever you'd prefer... ... Is there anything special you would like to watch?
I like to watch. This is fine.
I can see that it must be very important for you to stay informed of all the latest events.
Yes.
I admire that in a person. As for myself, I find there is so much to assimilate that it can become quite muddling at times...
Won't your injury prevent you from attending to business, Mr. Gardiner?
No. It won't do that.
... Would you like us to notify anyone for you?
No. The Old Man died and Louise left.
I hope that staying here won't be an inconvenience for you.
No. I like it here.
Oh, I know exactly what you mean. I sometimes enjoy puttering around myself, such a pleasant way to forget one's troubles.
I am a very good gardener.
Chauncey, I wanted to tell you how dreadful I feel about the accident today, but that I'm delighted that you are staying with us.
Thank you, Eve  I like this house very much.
... And Ben is just mad about you  you've lifted his spirits so  it's just... Well, it's just a real pleasure having you with us.
Ben is very ill, Eve  I've seen that before.
Yes... I know, Chauncey.
I like Ben very much... He reminds me of the Old Man...
He does...?
Yes. Are you going to leave and close the house when he dies?
... Why... No, I don't think so...
That's good.
... Good night, Chauncey.
Good night, Eve.
Chauncey!
Hello, Eve.
Your leg must be getting better.
Yes. It's feeling much better now.
Good. I'm glad to hear that. ... How did you like meeting the President?
Fine. He's very nice.
Yes, he is. I'm sorry I didn't get to see him.
... Chauncey... Last night you mentioned an old man, that died.
Yes.
Was he a relative? Or an intimate friend?
He was a very wealthy man, he looked after me since I was young.
Oh, I see... Your mentor, perhaps?
... Mentor...?
Forgive me, Chauncey  I didn't mean to pry. You must have been very close to him.
Yes. I was.
I'm sorry... ... And what about Louise? YOU mentioned that she had gone, were you close to her also?
Yes. I liked Louise very much. She was his maid.
Oh, his maid!... Stupid me, I thought perhaps she was someone that you may have been romantically involved with.
Oh, no. She brought me my meals.
Of course.
What is that?
Our greenhouse.
Oh, I like that very much.
Yes, so do we.
... I'm... ... I'm very grateful that you're here, Chauncey... ... With us ...
So am I, Eve.
I'll be all right, Chauncey you go ahead with Mrs. Aubrey...
Yes, Eve. You'll be all right.
Chauncey...
Hello, Eve.
Chauncey, I just wanted to wish you well. I know you'll be smashing.
Thank you, Eve.
And Benjamin sends along his best wishes.
How is Ben feeling?
He's tired, Chauncey  but he's going to watch you tonight. We'll both be watching.
That's good. I like to watch, too.
I know you do  you and your television... ... Good luck, Chauncey.
... You don't happen to have a tuxedo in your suitcase, do you?
No, thank you.
Oh. Well, we can fix up one of Ben's for you tomorrow night. Sophie insists an Black Tie.
I see.
... I have very few friends, Chauncey... And Benjamin's friends are all quite a bit older...
... Good night, Chauncey.
Good night, Eve.
Chauncey! Have you seen the papers?
No, Eve. I don't read the papers.
Well, it seems you've been described as one of the architects of the President's speech. And your own comments from the 'This Evening' show are quoted side by side with the President's.
I like the President. He is a very nice man.
I know... ... So are you, Chauncey ... ... Do you mind my being here, like this?
No, Eve. I like you to be here.
... You know, Chauncey... I want us to be... I want us... You and I to become... close... I want us to become very close, you know...?
Yes, Eve. I know that.
... I'm grateful to you, Chauncey... I would have opened to you with a touch, and you know that... ... But you're so strong  I can trust myself with you. I'm glad, Chauncey  I'm glad that you showed so much restraint...
Yes, Eve. I'm very glad that you didn't open.
I know you are, Chauncey... ... You conquer a woman from within herself, you infuse in her the need and desire and the longing for your love.
Yes. That could be true.
... I guess I may as well be honest about my feelings, Chauncey, as I know you are I am in love with you... I love you and I want you... And I know that you know it and I'm grateful that you've decided to wait until... Until...
I've never seen anyone handle the media as well as you, Chauncey. You're so cool and detached  almost as if you were born to it.
Thank you, Eve.
Yes.
Chauncey, this is Mr. Dennis Watson of the State Department.
Hello, Dennis.
Chauncey, where have you been? I was afraid you got bored and left, or that you were with some mysterious woman.
No. I was with a man. We went upstairs.
Upstairs? Chauncey, you're always involved in some sort of discussion...
He was very ill, I stayed with him for a while.
It must be the punch, and it is stuffy in here  I feel it a little myself. You're an angel, my dear  thank God there are still men like you around to give aid and comfort.
I feel so close to you, so safe with you, Chauncey... ... And Benjamin understands that, dearest... He understands and accepts my feelings for you...
Yes, Eve. Ben is very wise.
... Come in, Chauncey  please come in...
Thank you.
I just don't excite you at all... I don't know what you want... I don't know what you like...
I like to watch.
To watch...? To watch me...?
Yes. I like to watch.
... Is that all you want...? ... To watch me...?
Yes. It's very good, Eve.
... But I've never done... ... You mean...? When... When... When I do it? ... When I touch myself...?
Dearest, you uncoil my wants; desire flows within me, and when you watch me my passion dissolves it. You set me free. I reveal myself to myself and I am drenched and purged.
That's very interesting, Eve.
Chauncey! Chauncey!
Hello, Eve.
Oh, Chauncey, darling... Where have you been? We thought we'd lost you  we've been looking all over!
Yes. I've been looking for you, too, Eve.
Mr. Gardiner, I have a telephone call for you. Sidney Courtney, the financial editor of the Washington Post.
Thank you.
Would you care to take it, sir?
Yes.
Oh, Mr. Gardiner, I've been looking all over.
Oh, yes.
Morton Hull, the producer of 'This Evening' just called.
Yes, I have seen that show on television.
Of course. They would like you to appear on the show tonight. The Vice President was scheduled, but he had to cancel, and they asked if you would be interested.
Yes. I would like to be on that show.
Fine. They felt that since you had such close ties with the President, you would be a splendid choice. ... Can I help you? Are you looking for something?
No. I like this attic very much.
Do you know Raphael?
No sir, I don't believe I do.
Oh. I have a message for him.
Yes, sir.
A Black man gave me the message.
Well, I still don't believe I know the man, Mr. Gardiner. Now, hold still.
I understand. I've never seen anything like this on television.
Please, hold still, Mr. Gardiner.
Gentlemen, I didn't call you here at such an hour to make accusations, I just want to explore the possibilities. Now, I have three questions; Is the man a foreign agent? Or, have we suddenly found that our methods of gathering data are grossly inefficient? Or, thirdly, have the man's files been destroyed? Now, I'd like some answers.
Gardiner is not a foreign agent, there are now sixteen countries investigating the man. We can rule that out.
Very well... Can we rule out inefficiency...?
I don't think that's entirely true, Grover.
And what do the boys around Intelligence think?
Well, Mr. President... They don't quite know what to think.
Gentlemen, needless to say, there is going to be a full Congressional investigation of your respective operations. Good night.
... And he told us that he had been living there since he was a child, working as a gardener. He showed us a room in the garage, where he said he stayed, and I... Well, I didn't really believe him, of course  but why the act?
I have no idea...
Another thing that baffles me, Doctor  what was his connection with the deceased? Major financial dealings, obviously  but our firm has no record of any such transactions.
Hmmm. You say he showed you his garden?
Well, he said it was his, he walked us through it.
I see. Mr. Franklin, I must ask you and Miss Hayes to keep this incident with Mr. Gardiner to yourselves. There's no telling what he was involved in, and the matter may be extremely confidential. So please, not a word.
Of course, Doctor, I understand.
Fine. Thank you, Mr. Franklin.
Certainly, glad to be of help.
Good God, Eve  you'll freeze out here.
I wanted some fresh air, Robert. How is Mr. Gardiner?
A rather large contusion, but I don't feel there is any serious damage. I'd like to keep an eye on him, though  I suggested that he stay here for a couple of days.
Stay here? Is that necessary?
Not necessary, but preferable. I don't think he'll be a bother, he seems like a most refreshing sort of man.
Yes, he is different... Not the kind of person one usually meets in Washington.
How true. Mr. Gardiner may be a welcome change of pace.
He's very intense, and internal, don't you think?
At times, yes. But that's not an uncommon reaction to such an accident. Actually, I found him to have quite a sense of humor.
Good. It might be pleasant for a couple of days. ... Robert... Is there any improvement...?
No, Eve... I'm sorry.
... Eve  this has been an exhausting day for Ben...
... But he's...?
He's resting comfortably now. There's no cause for alarm, yet...
... He walked off...
Chauncey is so sensitive... He was overcome with grief...
... Do you think we should look for him?
I don't think so, he should be along soon...
I wish he were here...
We have to find him, Robert  he could be lost, something may have happened, we can't leave him!
You really care for him, don't you, Eve?
I do  we do  both of us, Ben and I feel so much for Chauncey...
I think we'd better go look for him. David!
I know exactly what you mean. Today the businessman is at the mercy of kidlawyers from the SEC. All they want to do is regulate our natural growth! It's happening across the country!
To everyone, I'm afraid. The Government controls are so restricting that the Medical Profession, as we know it, is being legislated out of existence.
Of course! By kidlawyers!
... No, of course you don't. Excuse me for being so presumptuous. No man knows everything about another man  however, very few are honest enough to admit it.
That is so true. You're different, Chauncey... Quite different than most men.
Some pain is to be expected... ... And I think what would be best for the two of you is a good night's rest. ... It's late, I'm afraid it's time for my patients to prepare for bed.
We have common foes, Chauncey  kid lawyers and our physician!
And you, Benjamin, must be strong and brave for me. Turn over, please.
In a minute, Robert  in a minute... Chauncey, I would like to ask a favor of you...
No more, Robert... No more needles...
It's not good, Ben  I'm sure you can feel it.
I know, Robert... But, strangely enough, I don't feel too bad about now... I feel all right... I guess it's easier... knowing Chauncey is here... to take care of things...
The injection will ease the pain and swelling, Mr. Gardiner.
I understand. I've seen it done before.
Now, you'll barely feel this. It won't hurt at all.
You were wrong, it did hurt.
But not for long...
It's good that there was no apparent damage to the bone.
Yes. I think so, too.
However, with injuries such as this, I have run into minor hemorrhaging, which really isn't too serious at the time, but can cause secondary problems if not looked after.
I see.
You can pull your trousers up, now.
Oh, fine.
Just to take the proper precautions, Mr. Gardiner, I'd recommend we take you downstairs and Xray your leg. ... By the way, Mr. Gardiner, I would like to ask you something straight out.
... Straight out?
Yes. Are you planning on making any sort of claim against the Rand's?
Claim...? ... Oh, claim, that's what Thomas asked me.
Thomas? Who's Thomas?
Thomas Franklin, an attorney.
An attorney?
Yes.
Then you wish to handle this matter through your attorneys?
There's no need for a claim, the garden is a healthy one.
Oh, I see... ... Well, then... You're a very funny man, Mr. Gardiner. You caught me off guard, I must admit...
Thank you.
Good, keep your weight off that leg, Mr. Gardiner. In fact, it would be best if you could stay here for a day or two, if that would be would be possible. Since Benjamin became ill we have our own hospital downstairs. I can promise you the finest in care, unless, of course, you would prefer to go elsewhere.
Yes, I could stay here. Thank you.
Fine. Would you like me to speak to your personal physician?
No.
I'll send Wilson up to take you for Xrays, Mr. Gardiner. Feel free to use the telephone, and please let me know if you have any discomfort.
Yes, I will.
... And please call me Robert.
Yes, Robert. I will.
Chauncey, there you are. What are you doing on that leg?
It's fine today, Robert.
Shame on you, Chauncey  you should let me be the judge of that. Please, sit in the chair.
I swear, Chauncey, between you and Benjamin, I've got my hands full... ... Say, that is coming along, the swelling has gone down considerably... ... Any pain here?
Yes, Robert. But it's not bad.
... Benjamin has been hounding me to allow him to address the annual meeting of his Financial Institute today, but obviously, the strain would be impossible... How about here, Chauncey, any soreness?
Hardly any, Robert.
... Were you going somewhere?
No, Robert.
... Oh. ... My God, I only wish that Benjamin had your recuperative powers... Anyway, the President offered to sit in for Ben at the meeting, quite a nice gesture, I felt. He's due here soon, I believe.
Yes, Robert. I know about the President.
... Oh? You've heard?
Yes. Ben called me. He wants me to meet the President.
He does, does he?
Yes, Ben told me to be in his room at ten o'clock.
Why, that's terrific, Chauncey.
How do I know when it's ten o'clock?
... It's five of, you'd best get on in there.
Thank you, Robert.
I would like to walk today.
Hell yes  walk. You're meeting the President, aren't you?
Oh, really?
... He's gone, Chauncey.
Yes, Robert. I have seen it before. It happens to old people.
Yes, I suppose that's true.
Will you be leaving now, Robert?
In a day or two, yes.
Eve is going to stay. The house will not be closed.
... You've become quite a close friend of Eve's  haven't you Mr... ... Chance...?
Yes. I love Eve very much.
I see... ... And you are really a gardener, aren't you?
Yes, Robert  I am. I'll go tell Eve about Ben now, Robert.
It's bad luck. And I believe hugely in luck.
Hold your breath and we'll pull.
Otho, that's terrible.
My sentiments exactly. Porcelain is for teeth!
They don't want to come down.
Why not?
All presences have a home space. A place where they live, so to speak. Where do they hide out?
The attic.
Perhaps if I were properly motivated.
That's slavery and murder. You don't know these people. They're just like you and me. They're nice people!
Wait a minute! What am I worried about? Otho, you can't even change a tire!
I'll need something personal of theirs.
Their wedding clothes.
Their wedding clothes.
<u>Adam</u>! <u>Adam</u>!
As flies the lizard Serpent fell; As goblin vizard, At the spell Of pale wizard, Sinks to hell; The buried, dead, and slain... Rise again.
Well there's a Little Deetz at least. Boy, when you city people do something, you do it right, don't you?
What happened to the people who used to live here?
Is this the key to the attic?
That's a skeleton key. It'll open any door in that house. Will you give it to your father? And you might mention that I singlehandedly decorated the house. In case he needs advice in that area. Come see me.
Are we going to be seeing you at Miss Shannon's Boarding School?
Yes, but I'm going to live at home.
Remind me to talk to your mother about the dress code. I'm sure you're going to be very happy there.
Hellooo! How's school?
It's okay. How's the dirt business?
Well, I just placed a call to your mother. She had stepped out but I have some news for her.
That was the single most unattractive window treatment I have ever seen in the entire of my existence.
I'm <u>so</u> glad you could leave the city to consult me, Otho.
Is the rest of the house as bad as this?
The rest of the house is probably worse. When can you and I get started?
No time like the present, as my wicked stepmother used to say.
What's wrong?
I thought I saw something.
Okay?
You read my <u>mind</u>! I love clients who can read my mind. I don't think people realize how strong a connection there is between interior decoration and the supernatural.
<u>I know</u>... I read your book, <u>The</u> <u>Haunted Tapestries of the Waldorf</u>.
Gooood!
What do you think?
Viridian?
Viridian? What is...?
Bluegreen! Hydrated chromic oxide! Remember I'm schooled in chemistry. I was a hair analyst! Briefly. Interior design is a <u>science</u>, Delia! Think of me as Doctor Otho. And this patient is truly <u>sick</u>!
Of course, her favorite color! How <u>beautiful</u>!
<u>Oh my God</u>!
<u>I know</u>! We just have to <u>pray</u> that the other closets are bigger than this one.
Otho, I can<u>not</u> <u>live</u> with these cheap domestic floor tiles.
Be brave! Otho take care! Onward!
Is there much more of this torture?
That's Charles' study. But you don't have to even look in there. He'll love whatever you do to it. He's such a sheep.
Oh, as long as we're here...
'I' will tell you what is boring. Once you cover up the wallpaper, knock down a few walls, alter the traffic patterns, and  perhaps  only perhaps  think about an inground pool  the place <u>might</u> just be livable. What's on the third floor?
Attic space.
Let's see. We could turn that into a media room.
You don't have a key?
Maybe Charles does.
I have a feeling there's some very interesting space behind this door.
Probably the world's largest <u>Reader's</u> <u>Digest</u> collection! C'mon, let's have some chablis, Otho, I'm laid bare by this experience. Entirely bare.
Now, Lydia... Favor us about your ghosts.
<u>No</u>! Do not encourage this little... person.
Oh, Delia, lighten up!
She's been without therapy up here and I will not allow her to ruin...
It does indicate a marvelously urbane sense of humor on the part of these ghosts  that they actually appear in <u>sheets</u>!
We're dealing with Tracy and Hepburn here, a very sophisticated pair. We must protect them, treat them with respect, <u>nur</u>ture them.
Look at that <u>detail</u>!
Look at the tiny figures.
Are they still here, Otho?
Oh, they're still here. They're Just not showing up.
What's happening to them?
I don't know.
I plan to have a stroke from the amount of MSG that's in this food.
This is our first meal in this house, Lydia. Why don't we all do our little private parts to make it a pleasant one?
We'll be <u>the</u> art center of summer New York. I'll teach those phony gallery creeps to refuse my sculpture. And when Otho and I get through with this house, you people are not going to recognize it.
I say let's keep it the way it is.
<u>You jerks</u>! That is my art, and it is <u>dangerous</u>! You think I want to die like that? Lydia. Moving is a family affair. So buckle down now and go get Mommy some drugs.
Any particular kind?
Joke! Joke! Aspirin! It doesn't matter what brand.
I can't believe you are doing this to me! <u>Ghosts</u>. I am giving a dinner party for seven people tonight. Otho has agreed to come back for the demolition of the attic. My agent, Bernard, is bringing some woman who writes for <u>Architectural Digest</u>. In fact, no one here tonight has not been in <u>Vanity Fair</u>. Except you.
I <u>told</u> them you were too mean to be afraid.
Don't you <u>dare</u> talk to others about me. I'm an <u>artist</u>! The only thing that scares me is being embarrassed in front of my friends. Do you know how hard it is to get civilized people to set foot in this part of Connecticut? Not a solitary word of this pubescent tripe to anyone.
Don't you <u>dare</u>.
I saw some ghosts.
Lydia tried to play a most amusing joke on me this afternoon.
It wasn't a joke.
Tried to convince me that this house is haunted. Kids. Kids. Kids! I love them.
I think the reason is they were trying to scare you, and you didn't get scared 
Of <u>course</u> we weren't scared. Just a little startled. One of those sushi dropped down my Kamali.
All right, you dead people! Come on out, or we'll break down this door and drag you out on the ropes you hanged yourself with!
Shhhh. They didn't commit suicide.
It doesn't matter. What matters is I've got a roomful of guests down there, who think I'm a fraud. I am going to teach you something here Lydia. You've <u>got</u> to take the right tone in things like this, or people  whether they're dead or alive  people will walk all <u>over</u> you. Come on out, or I will make death so miserable that you will wish you had never <u>lived</u>!
Lydia, I will never forgive you for embarrassing me in front of my social inferiors. You help us with these ghosts or you'll be sorry.
I'm sorry already.
Not <u>a building</u>! That's the beauty of it. I think I can buy the <u>whole town</u>. These people don't know the value of their property!
Then we own a whole <u>town</u> full of nowhere.
No, no, c'mon, Max, you know me. I've got plans. You gotta come up here and see, then I'll tell you about it.
Just a minute, Maxie. Somebody...
No listen... we'll talk about this visiting later, I gotta go, I gotta meeting on the Japanese joint venture.
Great idea, Maxie! Those Japanese could <u>run</u> it for us. Build them a dormitory in the woods. Listen, think right about it, will you? We've almost got the house ready, you bring Sarah with you and I'll show you.
Yeah yeah, we'll think on it. 'Bye ya, Charles. You relax up there, ya hear?
I don't care from guilt. I just want to <u>see</u> them.
Otho, can you do it?
Are they suffering?
They're already dead. They can't feel a thing.
What do you think, honey?
Delia hates it.
Lydia, relax. We'll build you a darkroom in the basement.
My whole life is a darkroom! One ... big... dark... room.
Yeah, maybe if he's nice, he'll let me hang myself from a rope in his barn.
Lydia, we're the first trickle! In a couple of years this whole town will be <u>filled</u> with people like us.
Where is your mother?
Stepmother. She's out torturing the movers.
Lydia. Try to be civil. I'm going to see if I can set up a noisefree zone in the study.
I was just trying to open the door. Mrs. Butterfield brought over a skeleton key.
Let me have it.
Skeleton keys never work. Anyway, this can wait. We'll get a crowbar later. Your mother...
Stepmother.
... asked you for something, didn't she? I'm going down to relax. I want a noisefree zone. Do you understand? Noise free.
What?
I'm lonely.
Darling, can't you see I'm relaxing in here!
Well I just wanted to tell you what I saw.
Lydia. What the hell is the point of my moving up here if you people won't let me relax? Go help your mother.
Dad. Do you believe me?
Yes. Except when you creep around in your mother's 
Stepmother's...
... sheets.
Well this is... I mean, this is the weirdest 
Lydia, I don't know what it is with you and these pratical jokes, but 
<u>This is not a joke</u>! That sheet was full of ghosts.
The attic room is locked 
They're ghosts. They do what they want.
Answer your mother.
Listen, you guys. These ghosts are really nice people. I think we scared them off. Let's just leave them alone. Okay?
Look at all that <u>parking</u>!
Come on. Leave their stuff alone.
Now, let's get back to business. I want to get Maxie Dean and Sarah up here immediately. I can make history here! I'm going to turn this sleepy little backward town into a leading supernatural research center... and amusement park.
I cannot believe this.
Delia will cook...
I'll bring the wine... and the business plan. And Lydia you'll bring the ghosts.
I can't <u>bring</u> the ghosts. They're not here!
Otho, could you actually... do something with them?
They're... not here anymore.
Nonsense, everytime she says that, the paint peels, and some wild creature tries to kill us.
It's <u>Otho</u>!
Otho, why didn't you just come in the door?
I can't believe that we're eating Cantonese. Is there no Szechuan up here? Hunan?
There's only one Chinese restaurant in town, darling, the owners are Irish and Irish people happen to cook Cantonese. They don't know better.
Lydia, at your age, you are <u>so</u> <u>young</u>. Charles, we need to call that awful Jane Butterfield tomorrow and get the key to the attic door. Can't you find a way to hold back some of her commission?
We're going to have a lot to do tomorrow... The Goodwill truck is coming, and whatever is up there in that attic goes away with it. Should have it fumigated too. I saw a fly today.
I feel like we've been at war, Charles.
At least insofar as we have our first casualty. Me.
Otho'll know what to do.
What's he going to do? Viciously rearrange their environment?
Otho knows as much about the supernatural as he knows about interior decoration.
Let's hope he knows how to produce those damn ghosts for Max and Sarah... Because I've bought options on property all over town. I need Max's financing...
Just don't tell Lydia.
Why not?
I think she's in with them.
They're probably guilty about what they did to me.
Not these people! They are ruthless!
Yes, of course you are. Well, Otho had an intuition. Call it a hunch  that it was going to be a fabled monstrosity of a house. And it certainly is. Charles, you're lucky the Yuppies are buying condos, so you can afford what I'm going to have to do to this place. We are talking <u>from the ground</u> <u>ups'ville</u>!
That's fine, Otho. Just keep me out of it. I am here to relax and clip coupons. And goddamnit, I mean to do it.
Otho, you've got to help me get Maxie Dean up here. I have a deal that could make all of us very comfortable.
He's a clovenhooved beast!
He's your cousin.
I am ashamed to say he is. Look, nothing short of giving away free sacks of money would get him up here, Charles. And Sarah? Forget it. You can't get her out of Bergdorf's with plastic explosives.
Otho?
It's too late, Charles. I'm sorry.
Mr. and Mrs. Maitland? I've come for the last time. Where are you? Barb...
They're dead.
Cookie, they are dead, dead, deadski.
Of course they're dead. They're ghosts.
No, I mean they've gone. Decamped. Split. Vanished.
Where'd they go?
The happy hunting ground. Who cares?
Are you a spirit too?
Sort of. High spirit. Heh heh. Listen, cookie, I've been trapped in this burg for hundreds of years. All I want is to get out.
I want to get in.
You do? Over here? On <u>my</u> side?
I think so.
Well, yes, of course. It's great over here. You'll meet all the greats. James Dean. Buddy Holly. 'The little things a you say and do... make me want to be with youahoo.'
Well, it can't be any worse than my life here.
That's right. They treat you like scum I bet?
Yeah.
I can't help you from this side, but here's how we do it. So <u>simple</u>. Say my name three times. That's all. I'll be all yours. Then I'll bring you over here in style.
I... I don't know what your name is.
Minor problem. The rules. I can't tell it to you. But... do you know how to play charades?
Yes.
Of course you do.
Three syllables.
No, dummy. Two.
Your fingers are so small I can't see them. First word  two syllables.
I don't know what that signal means.
It means look <u>behind</u> you, bimbo.
Beetle!
Good girrrl!
Breakfast beetle? Beetle? Beetle fruit? Fruit bat? Fruit battle? Volkswagen? Fruit wagon?
Good thing you are beautiful, kid. You are <u>dumb</u>!
I am <u>not</u>! Beetle... Juice?
That's it!
Your name is <u>Beetle Juice</u>? Yecch! That's as bad as <u>Deee</u>lia <u>Deee</u>tz.
It's spelled different, but basically... Now you said it twice; just one more time, and I'll be free. And then <u>you'll</u> be free.
God, you're anatomically correct!
Just <u>say</u> it.
You were the snake! Right? I know. I saw you.
You've <u>got</u> to say it!
No I don't. I don't take orders from smurfs.
How'd you like to have the biggest boobs in the world? Right now. I can do it if I get out.
They'd look silly on me. I'm fourteen years old!
How'd you like to be married to... the King...?
So... You're ready for me now?
You've got to help them.
Can you help <u>me</u>?
... I will.
Then <u>I'll</u> help them. For a price.
W... What is it?
BETELGEUSE +++$+++
Your qu...? But you're...
I'm beeyooteeful.
Hi, Barb! I'm glad I caught you. I heard you were on vacation!
That's right, Jane. Complete vacation.
Honey  today I am three hundred <u>fifty</u> thousand dollars!
No! Jane, it is 6:45 in the morning!
Look at me, think of me as cash! This offer is really real! From a rich man in New York City who only saw a photograph!
Jane, don't send photographs of our house around the country! We're not interested in selling.
You could double the size of your hardware store! You'll be rich.
And live in what, our station wagon?
Barbara Maitland, sweetie, you just listen now. This house is too big. It really ought to be for a couple with a family.
Oh, honey... I didn't mean anything ... it's just too big for you two. I know these things.
'Bye, Jane, I'll see you in church in a couple weeks.
If I had seen a ghost at your age, I would have been frightened out of my wits.
You're not gross. Why were you wearing a sheet?
We're practicing.
Tell the truth.
I always tell the truth. Of course I can see you.
We can't. We haven't left the house since the funeral.
Funeral. God, you guys <u>really are</u> <u>dead</u>! What was it like? The funeral. Did you cry?
I don't wear that stuff to <u>bed</u>. Besides, there's <u>nothing</u> wrong with it. I'm getting out of here.
Wait... I don't think it would be a very good idea if you told your parents that we're up here.
I hate you! I can't trust anybody!
No, wait!
He said if I let him out he would take me over to the other side to find you.
No, Lydia, we're dead.
I want to be dead too.
No you don't! No... Lydia... Why?
Life is just... too awful.
So, <u>never</u> let Beetle Juice out. Never. Besides... We're thinking about letting everyone stay... You and your father and mother can stay too.
Step... mother.
How'd you do on the science test?
It was gross. They wanted me to dissect a frog. I told them no way. I said it was against my religion. I got a C.
I'd nearly given up on you. I was about to leave. I do have other clients.
Are you Juno, our case worker?
Yes. I evaluate individual cases and determine if help is needed, deserved, and available.
We need help. We deserve help.
We're very unhappy.
What do you expect? You're dead.
 Like you used to be?
Yes.
No.
Pity. Murderers seem to have an easy time of it. Just look at Amityville. He was one of my boys. Didn't have to give that one any lessons. From day one... But I must be off ... I've got a planeload of football players crashed in the midwest... they need a lot of help, just with the basics.
If... we have trouble. What about the guy in the flyer? Betelge...
No. You don't want his help.
No, you don't! He does not work well with others.
What do you mean? What's he do?
He's a freelance bioexorcist. Claims to get rid of the living. But he's a troublemaker. He's pushy. He's been sleazing around that cemetery for 500 years.
Our cemetery?
Yeah. He still tries popping up all over the place. But he can't join the party unless you call on him. Get the Deetzes out by yourselves! I gotta go.
The whorehouse was my idea. I want Betelgeuse out of the picture! We've got some serious talking to do.
About what?
You people have really screwed up! I received word that you allowed yourselves to be <u>photographed</u>. And you let Betelgeuse out and didn't put him back, and you let Otho get ahold of the handbook.
What about Betelgeuse?
Forget him. He'll remain with his whores until someone calls him. You need to worry about people like <u>Otho</u>. There are a lot of phony trance mediums. They usually can't make the formulas work, but if Otho stumbles on the right words in that handbook... he could hurt you. As in  <u>exorcism</u>.
All right. Who are you?
We're...
You're the dead.
Just get some people out of our house.
Bio<u>busting</u>. I <u>loves</u> biobusting. Who do I gotta kill? Family  right? Obnoxious I bet. Mommie, daddy, piglets.
Just one daughter.
Hey <u>you've</u> been on Saturn! I <u>hate</u> those sandworms! <u>Yecchhh</u>! I've lost a lot of buddies to sandworms. So a daughter? She got good legs? God I love a young leg.
Folks, be reasonable here. I'm at your service. You be the judge. I'm a harmless guy. Try me.
Home. <u>Home</u>. <u>Home</u>!
I don't like Charles Deetz particularly, but you could have <u>killed</u> him.
Hey, I've been in a frigging bottle for six hundred years. I was out. Every dog has his day. This is my town. I need a night to howl.
You lillylivered bleeding hearts!
I'm so sorry we frightened you. What were you doing?
Are you available?
No. What's wrong?
Hell is other people. You obviously don't read much. Besides things seem pretty quiet here. You should thank God you didn't die in Italy. The Deetzes. Okay. Have you been studying the manual?
We tried.
The Intermediate Interface chapter on Haunting says it all. Get 'em out yourself. It's your house. Haunted houses don't come easy.
I heard. Tore your face right off! Bad news. It obviously doesn't do any good to pull your heads off in front of people if they can't see you.
We have to start simpler, is that it?
Start simply. Do what you know. Use your talents. Practice. We only help those who help themselves. Just do a little at a time. And of course, practice, practice, practice. It's tricky but  you weren't murderers by any chance, were you?
<u>Don't say his name</u>! Just practice. Do it <u>yourself</u>!
And if we need <u>you</u> again, how do we...?
Handbook? When...?
<u>Never trust the living</u>! We <u>cannot</u> have a routine haunting like yours provide incontrovertible visual proof of existence beyond death.
Well, we didn't know 
Yes... or no? Do you want the Deetzes out or in?
<u>Out</u>.
Aren't you dead?
Hell no! I'm rolling. I'm a businessman. I'm the man what <u>am</u>. <u>Beee</u>tel <u>Jooose</u>! <u>Who</u> do I gotta kill?
You don't kill anyone.
<u>So</u> you, the dead, want me, <u>the</u> <u>undead</u>, to throw the live guys  Mommie, Daddy and Lolita, who might not mind a tumble with an older guy, out into the cold? Even though they have paid hard casharoonie for your dump?
But... the Deetzes are <u>destroying</u> our house.
You Maitlands are the backbone of the afterlife. So what's my cut?
Can you scare them off?
Okay. But that Betelgeuse sure seemed mad.
Hi ho, hi ho, it's off to work I go!
This is <u>my</u> town.
You wish! I nearly scored with that little blonde. I need me a short little queen.
<u>Barbara</u>?!!
Now, let's get rolling!
You don't have an appointment, do you?
W... We didn't know how to make one.
Nine months? What difference does that make?
Good luck. You're going to use up all your help vouchers.
Help vouchers?
D90's. You spend a hundred and twentyfive years on earth, actually, in that house, during which you get only three class one D90 intercessions with Juno. You probably haven't even read through the manual completely yet.
Wait for who?
For Juno, your caseworker. Not that it matters to your type. But there <u>are</u> all these other people here ahead of you. I'd say three hours.
A... Are you the guys who're hiding out in the attic?
We're ghosts.
Aren't you scared?
I'm not scared of Ralph Lauren. Those are <u>sheets</u>. Are you gross under there? Are you <u>Night of the</u> <u>Living Dead</u> under there? Like all bloody veins and pus?
What?
<u>Night of the Living Dead</u>? It's this gross movie.
You can actually see us? Without the sheets?
Is this like a trick question?
Nobody else can.
I'm wearing contacts... Also I read through <u>Handbook for the</u> <u>Recently Deceased</u>. It says that live people ignore the strange and unusual... not me... <u>I am</u> strange and unusual.
Why are you creeping around Delia's bedroom?
We were trying to scare your mother.
Stepmother. I'm very sensitive about being related to reptiles.
<u>You</u> did this? You carved all these little figures and houses and things?
I certainly did. I'd finish it too, but... I don't get out much.
And this used to be your house, I bet. Why do you want to scare everybody?
We want to frighten you away. So that you'll move out.
You don't know the Deetzes very well, do you? My father bought this place. He never walks away from equity. Why don't <u>you</u> leave?
We weren't there. The handbook says funerals aren't for the dead.
God, if this is true this is like, amazing! I kinda like it up here. Can I visit you sometimes?
You tell them that we are desperate horrible ghoulish creatures who will stop at nothing to get back our house.
Wait a minute. I had some licorice ice cream earlier. You guys could be gas. What if... I'm dreaming. Can you do any neat tricks to prove you're not gas?
What is going on?
Really. I don't know.
Did you get the paint?
I got it. And I took pictures of the new church for you, too.
We studied all day yesterday. Don't tell me...
I got an A!
So can I?
Uhuh. Only if you got <u>above</u> a C on science.
Oh puhleeze!
She's ready.
Oh, Adam, the model looks so good. The Historical Society will love it. You've finished the streets?
Almost.
Manchurian Tung oil? Where did you get it?
Helen got it for me in Oslo.
God... Manchurian Tung oil? There's enough to refinish the gateleg table <u>and</u> the cherry wardrobe!
Yeah, I want to get one coat on the wardrobe and then I'll help you.
Oh, honey, I'm so glad we're spending our vacation at home.
God, how I have looked forward to this, honey.
Oh no.
It's <u>your</u> turn, darling.
Jane said we should sell the house to someone with a family.
Ah, the evertactful Jane. Let's just relax about having children.
We should be flattered that she wants to sell our house.
I know... I just wish she'd leave us alone.
Let's not think about it. We'll have a nice romantic, quiet, vacation. Here comes the bridge chorus.
Wave at the lion.
Don't forget the balls, Ernie.
Adam!
Adam, your Bozman Building is a beauty.
Yeah it turned out okay. We applied for a National Historical plaque for it. That'll be the third one on Main Street.
You're doing it, Adam. You're saving this town.
Slow down there, honey... I don't want the vibration to weaken the model.
Oh... I'm sorry...
This fire wasn't burning when we left the house.
How's your arm?
I'm not sure. It feels... frozen.
You'd better sit down, hon.
I am sitting.
I'll tell you what, Barbara. I don't think we survived that crash.
Oh, Adam. We're home. In our own house. Nonsense. I'll make some coffee. You get some more firewood.
You saved my  uh  life... or whatever... something.
Two hours.
What?
That's how long you were gone.
... Hmmm?
Anything happen while I was away?
Yes it did. Yes it did. I made a couple of small discoveries. Here's one.
Handbook for the recently diseased.
De<u>ceased</u>. I don't know where it came from.
Look at the publisher. Handbook for the Recently Deceased Press.
I don't think we survived the crash.
This is going to take some time.
I don't like situations like this. I hate it when I'm not in control. So just tell me the basics.
This book isn't arranged that way. What do you want to know?
There are a thousand things... Why did you disappear when you walked off the front porch? Is this a punishment? Are we halfway to heaven or are we halfway to hell? And how long is this going to <u>last</u>?
I don't see anything about 'Rewards and Punishments' or 'Heaven and Hell.' This book reads like stereo instructions! Listen to this... 'Geographical and Temporal Perimeters... Functional perimeters vary from manifestation to manifestation.' This is going to take some time.
Cabin fever, hon?
I can't clean anything. The vacuum is out in the garage. I can't leave the house. Why don't they tell us something? Where are all the other dead people in the world? Why is it just you and me?
Maybe this is heaven.
In heaven there wouldn't be dust on the wallpaper.
Hon... I didn't want to die, but really, this is fine with me. As long as I never have to wash dishes again.
Dishes? We haven't eaten in three weeks! Adam, I'm not like you, I really need to be around <u>people</u>, get out to the church and go grocery shopping.
But I'm not hungry, are you?
God, it's Jane Butterfield!
What's she doing here?
I don't know. <u>Jane, Jane, up here</u>!
She can't see you, right? In the book, Rule Number Two: the living usually won't see the dead.
Won't? Or can't?
Just says 'won't.' Wait a minute. Here it says 'the living are arrogant... they think they'll never die, so they refuse to see the dead.'
Arrogant. That's Jane Butterfield all right...
At least we won't have to worry about her.
I guess... if I'm going to be dead, I'll just have to be the best dead person ever!
That's my girl!
Adam, we <u>are</u> in hell. I hate these people.
They make gypsies look good.
Is this a punishment for something we did in life? What can we do?
I don't know if there's anything we can do.
We're not completely helpless. I've been reading the book. There's a word for people in our predicament, honey.
Oh, honey, we may need that.
No, I'm not putting up with this.
Barbara, honey! Don't go out there. You don't know 
Whatever it is it can't be worse than this.
Oh, Adam, don't ever leave me alone.
<u>You</u> left me.
I know. I'm sorry.
We're trapped in this house forever... with those... people.
You can't say that for sure. It could be a transitional thing. Like a postlife crisis. We just have to be tougher with them. Come on. Have some brandy. Spirits, get it?
Death didn't improve your sense of humor.
Look in the index... maybe there's, like an emergency number or something.
Not really... what's this?
That's it? No number, or instructions?
Nothing. The bio buster? I don't get it...
That little girl saw us.
She couldn't have. We can't <u>make</u> them see us.
But she <u>saw</u> us. I could feel it.
That's all we need.
There's nothing we can do. It's just a matter of time before they unlock this room. There goes my model. There goes our last refuge.
We're not going to wait here like cornered animals. I can tell you that. We need help. I'm going to talk to that little girl.
What about this Beetle guy?
We don't know who he is... ... I'm going to talk to that little girl.
Are you crazy? She can't hear you.
I don't know... what are you looking up?
We need some help. I found something this morning. Here. Emergencies. 'In case of emergency, draw door.'
Draw door? I don't know why we keep looking in that stupid book.
Yet another triumph for Adam and Barbara in the afterlife.
Wait.
... Not what I expected when we walked through that door.
No. But it's somewhere without big worms.
My God, we're back where we started.
Look at this, everything is different down here. All our furniture is gone.
How long do you suppose we were waiting?
We'd like some help in getting rid of the people who moved in here. Barbara and I worked very hard on this house.
We probably wouldn't mind sharing the house with people who were 
That guy is in our cemetery. Oh, Adam.
Look, she's right. We'll just start simple, honey, be tougher. I feel... confident. C'mon.
God, this is so corny. Have we been reduced to this? Sheets?
Think of them as death shrouds. And the moaning is important. Really <u>moan</u>! Practice, practice, practice.
I feel really stupid.
It's <u>not</u> stupid. We're ghosts. Do you want this woman for breakfast for 125 years? Moan louder!
Well, I don't know... We don't get many visitors.
Where are your skulls and bones?
You know you're really a pretty girl.
Lydia's trying, but they don't believe her.
She's got <u>photos</u>, Barbara.
Adam, you had a photo of Big Foot!
This is different. Eventually she'll take someone to the attic. And then what? We've got to try to contact this guy Betelmyer. We gotta get some help, hon.
Did you copy these gravestones right, Adam?
Of course I did.
Then it should be here.
Here's something.
I didn't do that one... Hmmm.
... Yes this must be him. Look... Betelgeuse... Betelgeuse...
Go ahead... third time's a charm.
<u>Betelgeuse</u>!
What happened?
Three times. Powerful number.
Bet... el... geuse. What an awful name. I thought it was like  you know. The <u>juice</u> of <u>beetles</u>.
Has anything been simple so far? From the look of the shovel, we dig.
Oh, Adam. I don't have gloves. My nails keep getting longer. I'll break them.
I guess we open it.
Maybe we should knock first?
She's only fourteen...
... acts like she's thirtyfive.
Honey. Let's go.
Go? What d'ya mean? We need help.
No, we don't. We can work something out ourselves. We just have to try harder.
Honey, I think that was a mistake.
I am not going to expose that little girl to that... pervert down there.
But <u>we</u> let him out.
I don't care, I've changed my mind. ... I feel <u>really</u> confident. We're getting better at this stuff. We can scare them off ourselves  tonight! I've got an idea. You're going to love it... I'm going to hate it.
And your sushi was remarkable.
The sushi? I did the wine. Didn't you do the sushi?
N... No, I just did the Ink Spots.
Who did the sushi?
Maybe they'll leave now. That snake was a pretty nasty customer.
He might have hurt somebody.
But he didn't. We've got him where we want him.
<u>Adam</u>! Why did you build a whorehouse? Have you ever been to...?
I didn't 
Lydia, believe me... we know... all the hard stuff is the same over here. You're going to be who you are... whether you're alive or dead ... and over here  it's... It's flat... there's no food, no colors ... you can't smell the flowers. If we knew then what we know now we'd have been more careful...
... we wouldn't have had our little accident.
You know, I've been thinking. I could teach Lydia to sew.
Little black party dresses?
Ah, Adam, you don't know anything about little girls. She's just... missed out on some love, that's all...
Let's see if she can get my model back.
You can build another one... with her.
We've been given a gift here, honey. A real live little girl. She likes us a lot. She needs us. Maybe that's why we died so young, to keep us from getting so... attached to <u>things</u>. The house, antiques, your model. Look at us. We didn't have room for anyone.
What makes you think she likes me?
What...?
Just a hunch.
What time is it?
3:30 I guess.
Give or take a year.
Oh, Adam, don't tease her. You never got an A in science in your life!
All right.
Maybe I am threeeightyfive if you carry a second lien! I can arrange the most creative financing in the six states of New England.
No, Jane.
You'll be rich!
We're rich in what really matters.
Adam my booyy! When you're really rich in what matters... ... nothing matters! My buyer has just made a killing in condos in the Village. And he's got a little stress problem... ... so his wife says they want the old peace and quiet!
So do I, Jane. I'm on vacation.
Does that mean you'd consider it in two weeks? You don't have to answer now. He wants me to check the deed restriction anyway. You take your vacation, Adam. Say 'bye!
Get <u>away</u> you little monster.
I will <u>never</u> sell this house. I'll be buried in my yard next to Barbara. Holding hands! And a good paintbrush!
You got two seconds!
Uh, huh huh. Is that gonna be enough time?
Who sent ya?
Uh, huh huh, this fat dude. He said we could do you. And he was gonna pay us.
Muddy! Sonofabitch! Hold it. What's he payin' ya?
Uh, ten uh...
Ten grand? That cheapass... I got a better deal for ya. I'll double it. I'll pay ya twenty if you go back there and do mah husband.
Uh, you want us to do a guy? Huh huh. No way.
Uh, hey. One of you kids got a match?
Uh, my butt and your...uh, butt.
You were a roadie for Motley Crue?
Yup. Huh huh.
Really? That's where we're from.
Well, then you know what I'm talking about. Anyway, here's the story. I scored with these two chicks. True story.
You scored with two chicks?!
Yeah, they were sluts. Huh huh huh.
Shut up, dumbass! You didn't score. I scored with both of them...
Uh, do you think these two sluts still live in Highland? That would be cool.
Hey, you wanna see something really cool? Huh huh huh.
Cool. Huh huh huh.
It's so nice to meet young men who are so well mannered.
Cool, huh huh huh.
That's why I'm bussing it across America. I'm so glad you're here. Jim, I want you to meet two nice boys.
This is Travis and Bob... What's your last name, dear?
Uh... Head? huh huh. My first name's Butt. Huh huh huh.
Meet Sylvia. And Elloise and Sam. And Ed. And Doreen.
Are you guys sluts too? Huh huh huh.
Whoa, this kicks ass! Huh huh huh.
Yoohoo! Travis and Bob Head. Whoohoo!
Well, Earl said you guys were young, but jeez... Oh well, as long as you can get the job done. So what are your names?
Uh, ButtHead.
Do her? Huh huh.
That's right. I'm offering you ten grand plus expenses to do my wife. We gotta deal?
Here she is. Her name's Dallas. She ain't as sweet as she looks. She stole everything from me. Ya gotta watch out, 'cause she'll do you twice as fast as you'd do her.
Whoa, huh huh. Cool.
She's holed up in a hotel room in Las Veags. Your flight leaves in a couple of hours. Now c'mon, I'll drive you to the airport.
Holed up. Huh huh huh. Holed.
One more thing. Mah wife's got this leather satchel. It's black, about this big. I need ya to bring it back. It's real important. Sentimental value... Any questions so far?
Uh, yeah. Does she have big hooters?
She sure does.
This is gonna be cool! Huh huh huh.
Ah'm gonna blow you both to hell!
Cool, huh huh. Hey Beavis that's that dude that's paying us to do his wife.
We got nothing, Chief. We tore the place apart. We can only legally hold her for another couple of hours.
Dammit! Where's that damn unit??!!
Talk ta me, Bork.
Chief, we found a witness that says he saw two teenagers leaving Dallas' room shortly before we arrived.
Did you give him a full cavity search?
Ah, the witness?
Yes. You can never be too careful Bork.
Well sir, I didn't really think it was necessary. You see we have a picture of them from the elevator security cam. Here, have a look.
They look like a couple of kids chief.
Bork, don't you realize what kids today are capable of? Don't you read the papers?
You see what I see, Bork?
I see it. I don't get it.
You got half the state looking for ya  how do you get away?
Cut the power!
Damn right. Bork, we're dealing with real pros here. My opinion, terrorists... What's the scoop on that stolen unit?
Well, sir it's not good. Roll the tape... The X5 unit is a new topsecret biological weapon, a manmade virus...
Jesus JumpedUp Christ! If this were to fall into the wrong hands...
It gets worse. The unit wasn't finished. It has a flaw  the casing. If hit hard enough, it could break open, releasing the virus.
Cavity search...?
Deep and hard.
Chief, you know that guy whose camper they were whacking off in?
Bork! You are a federal agent. You represent the United States Government... Never end a sentence with a preposition. Try again.
Oh, ah... You know that guy in whose camper they... I mean that guy off in whose camper they were whacking?
That's better. Yes?
We've run a sample through the National Criminal Sperm Bank and come up with two possible genetic matches for a father.
Well, I'll be a bluenosed gopher.
Where did these guys come from?
What the hell...? Bork! That bus we picked up. Where was it headin'?
D.C., Chief.
Jesus jumpedup... Bork, can you imagine what would happen if they set that thing off in our nation's capital, or even worse, if they sold it to some damned foreigner at that conference. Well, it's not gonna happen!
Okay, boys and girls, our suspects are on a tour bus we believe to be headed for... the White House! Jumpin' Jesus! I want everyone there. Our people. Locals. Orders are shoot to kill. Repeat! Shoot to kill!
Chief, I swear, we tore that bus apart. They couldn't have...
Bork, when this is all over, remind me to make you an appointment with Agent Hurley.
Not on him, Chief.
Agent Hurley...
Say chief, isn't that guy whose camper,...I mean, off in whose...
Not now Bork.
We just cleared all four floors. No sign of him.
Damn! Where the hell is he? We should've found him by now.
Chief, look!
Attention all units. We've got him. He's in front of a camper in the visitor's lot.
OK, nobody shoot. He could still have the unit on him. Keep your distance. We don't wanna take a chance on hitting it.
Where are his pants?
Who knows?
This is Agent Flemming, A.T.F.. We won't hurt you. We just want the unit. Tell us where the unit is.
Do you have T.P.? T.P. for my bunghole?
We'll get you whatever you want. Get that other kid. We might need him.
Do you have any oleo? Heh heh.
You must bow down to the Almighty Bunghole. Heh heh, this is cool. Bungholioooooo!
He's jerkin' us off. I think we're gonna have to take him out. Get ready to fire on my orders... This is your last chance. Give us the unit now...
Why does everyone wanna see my schlong? I am the oneandonlyalmightybungholiooo!
OK boys. Get ready to fire on the count of three. I'm gonna give you three seconds...
...Two...
...oooeieeeooooeeeooooo...
Thrr...
Hello there. Are you two heading for Las Vegas?
Yeah, we're gonna score.
I hope to score big there myself. I'm mostly going to be doing the slots.
Yeah, I'm hoping to do some sluts too. Heh heh. Do they have lots of sluts in Las Vegas?
Oh, there are so many slots you won't know where to begin.
Whoa! heh heh. Hey ButtHead, this chick is pretty cool. She says there's gonna be tons of sluts in Las Vegas! Heh heh heh.
Yeah, heh heh. I'm gonna have money, and a bigscreen TV and sluts everywhere!
Oh, that's nice.
I'm probably going to make out with her first before we, you know, get down...
You'll have to speak up son. I have this ringing in my ears. My doctor says it could be related to my heart palpitations. I've had two operations on my heart.
Really? I poop too much.
Oh, maybe you're lactose intolerant.
Uh... No, I poop too much. Then I get tired.
Well, if you find yourself getting tired, take a couple of these.
They perk me right up.
Heh heh, thanks.
Hey, ButtHead, it's that slut from the plane!
Why it's you two. How'd ya do in Vegas?
Uh, we didn't score yet.
Sorry to hear that. Me, I took a beating.
Does that say Xanax?
Um, um, yeah, probably. Heh heh.
Aaaah. TeeeVeeeee, heh heh.
Yer late.
Beavis.
That's alright. I'd rather not know your real names anyways. I'm Muddy. Look, I'm gonna get right to the point. I'll pay you ten grand plus expenses, all payable after you do her...
Yeah, heh heh. Boooooiiiing!!!
Just make sure it looks like an accident...
Yeah, heh heh. I think I just had an accident. Heh heh hmm heh hmm heh.
Huh huh. You guys are funny. Let's have a drink on it.
Oh yeah. Can you just take us to Washington? We're gonna meet her there and, you know, heh heh hmmm...
Washington! That's where she was gonna meet up with ya? Damn, she's goin' all the way!
Dammit, Beavis, I was about to score. Huh huh.
Yeah, but check it out. It's gone!
What's gone?
The TV.
Whoa! I think I just figured something out Beavis.
What?
This sucks.
Yeah, heh heh.
Huh huh huh. That was cool.
Yeah, heh heh. Let's just wheel this thing back to the house.
Huh huh huh. He said "anus."
Entertain...us...anus...Oh yeah! Heh heh. Anus. Heh heh.
What a dork. Huh huh.
Yeah, heh heh. He's a anus. Heh heh.
Huh huh huh. That was cool.
No it wasn't!
Uh,...Oh yeah.
Whoa, check it out Beavis. I didn't know Anderson had a Camper.
Yeah, heh heh. Maybe it has a TV. Heh heh. TV.
Nnnnooo. Oooooh nooooo.
What's your problem Beavis?
I need TV now! Now! NNNNDAMMIT!!!
Huh huh huh. That was cool.
Dammit! I need a TV now! We're missing everything!
Actually, we just wanna watch TV...
Shut up Beavis! Uh, yeah. We'll do your wife.
Nnnnaah...We need to watch TV DAMMIT!!!
Beavis, you buttmunch, this guy wants us to score with his wife. And he's gonna pay us. We can buy a new TV.
Oh, heh heh really? Cool. Heh heh.
Uh, huh huh... We'll do it, sir.
We're gonna get paid to score.
Yeah, heh heh, and then we're gonna get a bigscreen TV! Heh heh.
Beavis, this is the greatest day of our lives. Huh huh huh.
Wait, I wanted her to do it.
Huh huh. Soon, she will be mine.
Dammit! Huh huh. That chick wants me.
Aggghg! We're gonna die! We're all gonna die!
Uh, huh huh, this is Las Vegas?
Yeah, heh heh. I thought there'd be casinos and lights and stuff.
Hey ButtHead, why's that guy holding a sign?
Uh... maybe he's blind... Huh huh, check this out.
Uh, B...A...U... No, uh, V...
Uh... Buuuuut. Boot. Someone named boot.
Huh huh. This says Beavis.
And BootHead.
That's ButtHead. Don't you get it, Beavis. These dudes have the same name as us.
Yeah, we should party.
Beavis. This is what it's all about.
Heh heh. Yeah.
Ow! These chips suck.
What a ripoff. Come on. We gotta find that chick.
Huh huh huh huh huh huh.
Uh... Uh...
Huh huh huh. That chick was talking about doing it.
Heh heh. This is the best night of our lives.
Uh... Hey baby. Are we like, doing it?
Me first?
Huh huh huh. I'm ready for love.
Me first! Me first!
So, uh, huh huh. Are we gonna score now?
Me first!
Forget it, bunghole!
Ow, let go, ButtHead!
Huh huh huh.
Me first.
Huh huh. No way, dude.
This is it, Beavis. Huh huh. We're finally gonna score.
Heh heh. Thank God.
No way butthole! I want the window.
Cut it out butthole!
Heh heh. We're in Washington!
Huh huh. We're gonna score now.
Damn, huh huh.
Yeah, heh heh. Damn right!
So, like, where is she?
Yeah, really.
This is dumb, let's find that chick.
Yeah, heh heh, enough'a this crap.
Check it out ButtHead, TV!
Cool! Huh huh huh.
Beavis, huh huh, what'er you doing?
My butt's bothering me!
You should kick your butt's ass. Huh huh huh.
Dammit, all they have is shows about water.
That sucks. Heh heh. They need some shows about fire! Change the channel.
Uh...
That was boring. Huh huh.
Yeah, it's just the same thing over and over again.
Uh... We can't leave Washington 'till we find that chick.
Ow! Cut it out ButtHead.
Huh huh. Get out of the way, Beavis, I wanna sit by the window. Huh huh.
Ow! I'll kick your butt!
Huh huh. You mean like this?
That's not that much.
Yeah really. Let's get outta here Beavis. Huh huh huh. This sucks.
Uh... Is this the right bus?
You mean there's mre than one?
Huh huh huh. Hey Beavis. We're on a bus with chicks.
Heh hmm heh heh.
Check it out ButtHead, portapotties.
Cool, huh huh.
Hey, where'd those chicks go?
Uh... I think you scared them off.
This sucks. What are we doing here? Weren't we suppost'a go to Washington and score or something?
This sucks. It's all hot and stuff.
This desert is stupid. They need to put a drinking fountain out here.
Yeah or like a SevenEleven or something... Are we almost there?
Uh, probably like, another five minutes or something.
Uh...
Dammit!!!! Dammit!!!!
Hey ButtHead, isn't there supposed to be like, water in cactuses?
Uh...
Hey ButtHead, are we gonna die?
Uh, probably, huh huh...Whoa, I think my life is like, flashing in front of my eyes!
Whoa, my life is cool!
Uh... I think I'm seeing something too. It's like a really long time ago...
Hey ButtHead, I'm starting to feel weird. I think I'm freaking out.
Huh? Huh huh.
Whoa, this is cool! Heh heh. It's like, everything looks all weird and...
Uh... Huh huh. I have a couple. Butt cheeks, huh huh huh.
Yeah! Boobs. Heh heh. I just wanna say that again. Boobs. Heh heh.
Hey ButtHead, look. A jack. Heh heh.
Huh huh. Jack. Huh huh.
Uh, you first.
C'mon, Beavis, just start running really fast when you hit the ground. It'll work.
Okay. I'll go right after you.
Hey ButtHead it's that chick!
Uh, oh yeah. Cool. They can take us to Washington and we can finally score.
Yeah, heh heh. Umm, isn't Seattle in Washington? Heh heh... 'cuz I was thinking maybe we could go see Hole.
Yeah. We can go see Hole and then we can get some hole. Huh huh huh huh.
Well where is she?!
Could you, like, tell her we're ready to score?
Uh... Attention, attention! We're looking for that chick with the big boobs.
Heh heh. We wanna do her now!
Huh huh huh. Settle down Beavis.
Oh yeah,...I mean no. NO! I won't settle down! Not this time!...
Heh heh. Fire. Heh heh Aaaaeeehhhhg!!!
What's your problem Beavis?
I always thought there was something wrong with him. Heh heh heh.
Yeah, he had a lot of problems. Huh huh huh.
Yeah, and um, he used to hit me too.
Uh hey, does anyone wanna see my unit?
You hear that, Beavis! We're gonna get alcohol, tobacco and guns!
Yeah, maybe some chicks too. Heh heh.
Cigarettes and beer rule! Huh huh.
Yeah! We're with the bureau of cigarettes and chicks! We're gonna score!
Uh... byebye.
Heh heh. Bye bye. Heh heh.
Hey ButtHead, do you think we're ever gonna score?
Uh, I probably will, but not you. You're too much of a buttmonkey. Huh huh.
Shut up, dillhole.
Buttdumpling...
Turdburglar...
Dillwad...
Bunghole...
Buttsnatch...
Um, uh, butt... um, hole. Butthole...
Uh... dill, um, face...
Um... ass... head...
Uh... buttsnatch...
You already said that, ButtHead.
Oh, uh, I mean, uh, assgoblin...
Shut up, Kevin.
NO, seriously  I know he's your boyfriend, but there's something about his upper lip that is so weird. What do you think it is, Dad? Jen says it's a moustache, I say it's a cluster of about 11 mosquitoes, resting.
You know the thing I hate most about children?
Nope.
You.
I wish I could use that at school. "Hey, Teach, no hard feelings ... It's just things between us ain't what they used to be and I need a little space, ya know? So I'11 see you around in a couple of years, maybe".
It's a kind of an interesting swap. Mom for the Man from Ga Ga.
You know, Mr. Bean's okay. You're not gonna kick him out, are you, Dad?
Of course he is.
Are you?
Come on Sting!
Sting?! Sounds like something you put on a rash.
what a pleasure, Governor. Welcome.
Hi, Grierson, forgive the war paint. Going on To my regiment/s reunion after.
Not at all, Governor. Very striking.
Interesting suit.
Why thank you sir.
off the peg?
Yes it is ... may I introduce you To Bern ...
I've known soldiers who've had their heads blown off who were more intelligent than you two. Not only have you failed to protect your most valuable possession from theft  but you didn't even know it'd been stolen! I'd sooner buy heroin from the guy who sells drugs outside my grandson's school than anything from you guys.
I am sorry you feel that way.
And I'm sorry you look that way, shortass. That suit stinks and you obviously dye your hair.
Doctor Jacobson?
Yes?
We need you urgently in C Theatre.
Damn. I was just going to Number 4 ....
It is urgent, sir.
Okay.....
Hiya Dad ~ I'll need you upstairs for homework in about .... oh, 20 minutes.
Great, good.
Who do you think is the ugliest guy who ever lived.
Well, Michael Bolton's pretty grisly.
I vote for Bart.
He was incredible. This guy is fearless. He has no fear.
That's one  way of looking at it. You might also say this guy is brainless he has no brain'.
Well, there is that ...
I'11 give you a chance... Know anything about computers?
Hey, En, nice bike' but remember: any kids you have are gonna look just like its handsome driver.
Jennifer! This is not  repeat, not! how we do things in this family. I've told you never to get on one of those death traps! Please  talk to me. I promise to be reasonable.
Is Jenny gonna be okay?
She was wearing a helmet. It could have been worse.
But is she gonna be okay?
How the hell should I know?
... in the distant future.
Bye, Bean. Thanks for everything. And take care, huh? I know it's insane, but I'm going to miss you.
As you can see, security's pretty tight in this section. Nobody gets past Elmer here. Isn't that right?
Not in one piece anyway. I see Mrs Whistler as kind of ... like my own dear mother. I'd kill any man that tried to interfere with her. The Vice President here will vouch for that.
You've known me five years Elmer. When do you get to calling me David?
Not my place, sir. It would only be a matter of time before I'm calling you Dave. Then where would we be? By next year, you're my SweetyPie" and I'm "CoochieCoo". I'11 be back in 15.
You arrange those flowers yourself?
Sure did.
They're pretty. Learn it in the army?
No  but when you've torn out a man's throat with your bare hands, you learn to appreciate the beautiful things in life.
Oh come on  the guy's going to be a creep. All Englishmen are ugly.
What makes you say that?
All the guys they claim are English to and goodlooking like Dan Day Lewis and Liam Neeson, turn out to be Irish. Even Anthony Hopkins is welsh. Prince Charles is so ugly they pay him two million bucks a year to stay indoors.
Richard Burton was very goodlooking.
Welsh.
Sean Connery.
Welsh again.
Okay, so the guy's gonna look like Meatloaf's backside. Noone's asking you to go to bed with him.
Honey, calm down now... it's okay...
There's a man. I woke up next to a man ...
Jen  you don't wanna talk about it?
It's you and Mom that need to talk.
Sure. You're right.
Bye, Dad.
Ah ... Jennifer, I need you to watch Kevin. Jen?
Oh, look, I mean, it's kind of the last thing... I mean, I'd really like to, but... things at home are kind of sensitive, so I couldn't really er ...
I thought perhaps as VicePresident, and in view of the unfortunate attendance's for the summer show this year... the MASSIVE financial LOSS ...
on the other hand ... maybe a breath of fresh air is just what my family needs ... Yes. Great news. Fabulous. Triumphant. Course it might need a little smoothing over. When's he due?
Tomorrow. You have a problem with that?
No. Perfect. Looking forward to it. CUT TO:
Ah, David. Finally. And this must be our professor from across the sea.
Yes, this is Doctor Bean.
Ah... He certainly has something, sir.
Very pleased you've taken him in, David. At a time when noone's job is safe, it really identifies you as a team player.
Yes, although, I really..... thank you. Yes, it's great to have him with us. The whole family's very excited.
Glad to hear it. Tell poor Mr Larson to come through, will you?
You're not going to ....
Sack him? David, what else can I do? This business is not, repeat, not breaking even. And David ... notice anything this morning?
No!
Er ... pray tell me why?
The thing is, sir, I've just been giving the painting a very thorough inspection, with the help of Dr Bean here  and we feel the time's come for Whistler's Mum to have her first facelift.
Time taken its toll on the old girl, eh?
Exactly. She's in a surprisingly terrible state. Isn't she, Bean?
Thank you David. However, flattery will get you nowhere. Truth is, I have a rather different plan for Whistler's dear Mama. Bernie and I have been inspecting our books  and the long and short of it is, we cannot survive with our current losses, so ...
... you have to sack me. I understand, sir. I'll go quietly. In fact I'll go right now.
No. no, no, hold on ... We cant sustain our loses  so I've decided.. to sell Whistler's Mother.
Brilliant, huh? I already have a prospective buyer  the current Governor of California, no less, who is flies in tomorrow to inspect her and clinch the deal. Spread the news. I think decisive leadership has done the trick, don't you?
Yes, sir. Yes, sir. Congratulations. Marvellous thing. Bravo.
I think you're wrong, David. She looks as fine as she's ever looked. Worth every cent of the 10 million dollars.
Ahm....
Bravo. Let's put on a good show tomorrow, shall we? Don't want anything to go wrong.
Quite right, sir.
Well, congratulations. Isn't that great, David?
Certainly is.
David, David, David ...
I'm fired? Because I let a... copy of a painting the get stolen?
Of course not. I'm sacking you for neglectful conduct, relating to the heavy financial loss this gallery has incurred, through your recent lack of professional judgement. A loss I trust Bernie will be able to reverse.
I owe you a very serious apology, young man. It wouldn't surprise me if you wanted to leave us after this. I sincerely hope that you do not.
VERY ACCOMMODATING Well, no, sir, I'm sure ...
Of course.
And a car.
Mmmmm...
Maybe two cars.
A car sounds sensible.
And I need Fridays off, to spend more time with my family. Speaking of which  if you'll excuse me .... I've got a lot of time to make up.
Say that again, son.
I beg your pardon?
I said say that again, son  because the next time you do, I'll make sure you're in there with my daughter, but in a slightly less healthy state and she's in a coma with a broken arm right now.
I'm er ... sorry if you've been waiting a long time.
We have. In fact, we've been sitting here since the start of the Millennium and I'd really like some action from you before the end of the world.
So, why not haul your ... nice little ass into this room and explain to me and my wife why our precious daughter is going to be absolutely fine because of all the fantastic intelligence and attention you are going to give her case.
Okay, sir. Certainly. Good.
Lord Walton assures me this guy's one of the very top scholars in the English art world. Has a couple of doctorates no less.
Great news.
So ... I'm wondering if one of you would have this guy stay in your home instead of some expensive hotel.
Love to, sir, but no can do. No spare room. Period.
David?
We'll be able to start this afternoon. I'11 pipe the guide to every video screen in the gallery. Now, that'll impress the Governor.
Well, bravo! What with you and Whistler's Ma  I think I've got a winning team.
What a pleasure, Governor Reynolds. I'd like you to meet some of our staff here. .
And that's where you introduce me to the Governor.
Right. Got it.
This is Elmer, our longest serving...
Hey. Let's junk the medals, Elmer. This is not a Veterans' reunion. We wanna make the Governor feel at home. Not remind him of piles of dead people wearing uniforms.
Okay, that'll do. The Governor's here in half an hour. We have to be totally ready then. No excuses. Period!
Thank you Bernie. Well done. Now, If you'll excuse  I have a little smartening up to do myself.
He's a man with a plan who will haul us into profitability and the 21st century.
Thank you, sir. Although, I'm afraid I don't quite see how we can ...
Good point Bernie  precisely the kind of perceptive interjection I'd expect from my new V.P. How can we, you ask, survive without Whistler's Mother  our single greatest asset? Well, the truth is  we can't. So what am I saying? Will we find her again? Never  this robber was clearly the work of a criminal of great genius.
It's very good Bernie.
But the particular glory of the system... is that it can also work oh large screens in each individual room  so we can network the program to every room in the gallery.
I was hoping DU. Bean might take a look at my computer project today.
Yes. I'11 mention it to him. But ... he's kind of his own guy, you know?
Howls he getting on with the family?
Ah. Fine. It's good. It's great.
And howls Alison?
She's ... well, she's good.
Saw her at the movies the other night with that boss of hers. Nice guy. Good looking.
Yes, isn't he.
It's great when people who work together can become real friends.
Isn't it?
Look, I've left Bean on his own. Nice to chat though Bernie  always a subtle joy.
Thanks, David. Always a pleasure.
'Emergency measures, in your book means sack people right?
Not necessarily. That's where this ... comes in. No, I've had a better idea than sacking people. You'll hear soon enough.
Great day. At last we can start getting out of debt and concentrating on the future.
Yes, look, I wanted to talk to you about this. I'm sure we haven't been doing as badly as all that.
You're an innocent and an optimist David  that's why I love you. . Jesus  what a terrible tie Come on, the Governor's coming at 3. And before then I have a little surprise for you and the Boss.
Everything okay, David?
Yes. Ahm. I was just wondering where my English house guest had got to.
He's just parking the Governor's car.
Great  keep him out of trouble.
Look at all this  publicity expenditure ... catering ... all completely fictional ... back as far as June 93 ...
I don't think you really understand what you're looking at ...
Ah, Mr Bean ...
Excuse me.
Better go. Grierson hates people being late.
Yes. Ahm... think I'11 ...
Seems to be a problem with the door. Where's the picture gone?
Ahm.....
What? What?
Oh Jesus. Oh God. Oh Jesus God. Oh Mary Mother of Jesus. Oh Jesus of Nazareth.
oh dear.
What happened?!!!
Ahm.... .
Oh yes.
Whistler was a great painter, but he wasn't a great chooser of paints ....
It wasn't a dream, was it. I have to go in to work and tell them Whistler's Mother now looks like Danny De Vito.
Well, Ahm....
Two dollars please.
Annie, it's me.
Oh, right, yeah. two dollars please.
No, Annie, no. This is Doctor Bean. He's going to be working with us.
He doesn't like to say much does he?
Right first time.
I can understand THAT. Neither do I.
Excuse me. Mr Grierson called down. He's ready to see you upstairs.
Thanks, Annie.
Goodnight Annie.
Night.
Big day today, huh? 78
Uh ... yes ...
David. There's a call for you. It's your wife.
Great. Classic timing. Why don't you ask her just to leave a date for the divorce? I'll check my diary later.
Ahm, well, you know ~ that's a tough question  on one' level I think it ....
Don't ask him about work, Charlie. Life's too short.
Jennifer can stay and look after Kevin
Sounds great. Excellent. Though, Ahm... there's this guy who's coming to work at the Gallery, from England...
Yeeees?
And they asked me if we'd like to ... you know... put him up for a while.
There aren't hotels?
Yes, there are hotels. They just thought maybe it'd be nice for him to stay with a real American family. Popcorn, waffles, all that stuff.
And what did you say?
I said I'd check with you.
Do we know anything about him?
Ahm  he's male. He's English. He's a doctor of er ... at least 2 things. I think they would have mentioned if he was a blind dwarf. Or one of those guys who kills lots of people all the time. I think we're looking at someone moderately normal here.
David  are you ever going to learn to say 'no'?
Yes. Yes. Sometime.
It's the last thing we need.
That's exactly what I said ... before I said  Great, it's a sensational idea."
Scottish.
Tom Jones?
Well, they're kind of busy but it doesn't look like ...
Did you really ask?
I'm not sure I got the right person but they were a bit busy ...
What's wrong with you, David? All you have to do is say, Excuse me, I've been sitting here since the start of the Millennium and I'd really like some action from you before the end of the world. I'll go.
It isn't working any more, David.
I know  I'11 take it in to George tomorrow' he'll fix it. Stupid thing.
Jesus.
I need some time, David. A little time. It's not just you. It's partly me.
Go ahead.
I had the last strawberry in the refrigerator.
There were three strawberries.
One.
Liar.
0h Ali we can work this thing out, you know.
Ali? What's wrong?
Your face smells like a foot.
Shut up, Kevin. Honey, youre not making sense ...
It's okay. There's no one out here. Just open the door. Trust me.
Okay. It's not a problem... Let's just sit ... I'11 talk to the gallery ...
David, I'm serious!
I know you are. Very serious ... most of the time these days.
Now what does that mean? My daughter wakes up with a strange man in her bed, and I'm supposed to think it's amusing? That tie's Godawful. Why do you wear it?
Hi,
Hi..... Roses.
Yes. And I have a wine for dinner that will kill you.
Great. You said you'd ask Grierson about putting our guest somewhere else. Did you?
Sort of half.....
Meaning?
I was sort of half way through the sentence in which I would have asked him when it suddenly seemed like a mistake.
Honestly David, you're so spineless.
At least you didn't bring Mr Bean with you.
Ah, well .... CUT TO:
0 my god.
Sorry, honey  he just happened to tag along.
Nothing ever really changes, does it, David?
Let's get a coffee.
Yes. Great. Kevin, I'11 send Bean in to keep you company.
Everything's gonna be fine.
About Charles...
shhh...
It was nothing. We're not ... He just makes me laugh. When was the last time we laughed? Any of us?
I know... I know. I've been an arsehole of spectacular proportions. Olympic standard.
Maybe I ought to think about getting another job.
Good idea  with a boss who's a really ugly sonofabitch.
Here, let me do that.
No, I'm fine.
He's not too bad. I can live with him.
I'm afraid you don't know the half of it. Sit down. I have a tale to tell. And not a happy one.
How'd you know it was me?
Honey   I would know any randomly selected square inch of Vicki Vale. If I had a good enough hint.
Burned out. I need a vacation.
Too much glamor, huh. What's in the bag   Monte Carlo? Apes in Kenya?
God, Vick, a girl could get hurt doing this.
A girl could get killed   so they tell me. What's new and hot in Gotham City?
Oh, it's too good. We got a sixfoot bat that swoops out of the night and preys on evildoers.
Evildoers, huh? Big or small?
Small so far. I think he's leaving the big fish for Harvey Dent.
Our next D.A.  I hear Bruce Wayne is throwing a fundraiser. Did you get your invitation yet?
Oh, absolutely. Bruce and I are very close.
No.
Well, I'm starving. Will you at least buy me a hamburger?
Man, I feel like Robin Leach. You actually know all these people?
Some. I am a rich bitch, remember? I'm quoting.
Where does one man get all this junk?
All aver the world. They say he's spent half of his life overseas.
Holy shit...
Rich. Reclusive. Bankrolls half a dozen charities.
Likes to kill? KNOX Women find him magnetic.
I bet they like him for his big charity balls.
That, and the sweet smell of two hundred million bucks.
Well, you know me. The more they've got, the less they're worth. This guy must be the most worthless man in America.
Oh. Sorry. I was thinking.
What were you thinking?
Yum, yum.
Well, he must like the way he looks. He's got a mirror in every room.
Guess who's got a date with Bruce Wayne?
Bruce Wayne? Date? He called you up and asked you for a date? Shit. HEY, MIRANDA! C'MERE! Now pay close attention to this. Miranda  tell my friend here what you told me about Bruce Wayne.
Peanuts?
Yeah. Peanuts. Which is how he goes through women.
Plain or roasted? Alex, I'm very flattered that you've gone out and done all this research.
Why? Aw, come on, Vicki, I'm a reporter. I'm curious. I do this for a living. There's a phone. You can call him up and cancel.
Nice snap, huh? Pulitzer Prize, 1963.
His face. Allie, look at his face.
Yep. He watched the whole thing happen   Recognize the beat cop? Jim Gordon
Oh, Bruce...
Something like this  what do you suppose this could drive a guy to?
You are on drugs.
Yeah? According to this, he's in Geneva from '76 to '79. Well, I called Geneva. Nobody there's even heard of the guy   Probably off in Tibet with some kung fu master.
Are they paying you for all this?
Everybody needs a hobby. You explain it, Vicki. He walks out on his own party. Half an hour later, who turns up? Batman. Sees an execution, freaks out in an alleyway. No place to change.
Allie, I know exactly why you're doing this.
... Oh? Why is that, Vicki?
He's best friends with Jim Gordon and Harvey Dent. They would know.
... Okay, then, I have a confession to make. I'm the Batman.
Alexander... I know you.
Right. And they know him. And that's why it would never occur to them for a minute that their old buddy Bruce puts on a cape at night and goes out looking for 
I've had it with you. I'm leaving.
Bruce Wayne is out of his mind. Next time you call him up and he can't go out Friday night   think it over.
The guy's bats all right. He's bat shit crazy. He   I can't believe it. I was right!!
Allie, he's not.
Not what?
He's not crazy.
Vicki. We got a wealthy millionaire here... who dresses up like a bat. He goes out at night and swings around  in his cape  on a rope. CRAZY BATSTARD!
Allie... he wants to tell me. I had a roll of film. His face was on it. He knew that  And he let me keep.
Jesus, Vicki! Where is it??
It's gone.
Couldn't turn down the job, huh? A girl could get hurt this way.
Yeah. Deja vu.
What do you say? Let's head for the lights.
LOOK! IT'S BRUCE!! Allies  the balloons. We've got to find some way to tell him!
Great. How??
HOLY SHIT!!
You okay?
Yeah. Yeah. Little winded. DID YOU SEE THAT?!
God yes, Allie. I've gotta say  that was the ballsiest move I ever...
Holy shit. Holy...
... Thank you.
Unfortunate, but I think we can work around it.
And you want a 
A visual record, yes. A beforeand after kind of thing. This could make your reputation.
Maybe we should start with a portrait of the artist. People might like to see the face behind the makeup.
... Behind the makeup?
I've seen worse. Much worse.
Strong stomach, huh? I like that in a woman  Maybe we can do business after all.
... Why the mask?
Alicia! Come here, have a seat. Show Miss Vale why you wear the mask.
You SCUM! You SICK FILTH!... You DID THAT to her!
What? I improved her a little...
I'll see you burn. I'll see you dead  GET AWAY FROM ME!!
Miss Vale, was it something I said? Do you want to sniff my flower?
Joker here. Can we talk?
I'd like to read a prepared statement. 'While this administration remains vehemently opposed to terrorism in any form, we are prepared to negotiate any reasonable demands which will guarantee the safety of the populace.'
Huh. Demands. Well, gents, this is kinda embarrassing, but... I'm having such a swell time, I just haven't thought any up.
All right, then. Here's the deal. Total amnesty... and the sum of ten million dollars, payable in 
Ten million dollars. Ten mi  YOU CHEAPSKATES! I've just wiped out the stock market. I've cost you billions! I want ten million and one.
Please! We'll talk. Just tell us what you expect.
Goddammit, I expect to be treated like and ARTIST. GET OFF MY SCREEN!!
I don't like taking orders from Grissom. And I especially don't like taking orders from Grissom's goon.
I've considered that possibility.
And what happens if we say no?
Nobody wants a war, Carmine. If we can't do business, we shake hands and part friends.
That's it?
That's it.
Okay, a breakin. Trash the office, make off with the books ... "Industrial espionage."
Very good idea, Jack. In fact   I'd like you to handle this operation personally.
Why do you need me to handle a simple breakin?
Because I want someone I can trust.
I understand.
Oh, Jack.  Don't forget your lucky deck.
It's me. "Sugar Bumps."
Jack? Thank God. I can't believe it's you. I heard you'd been 
Is that what you "heard"?
It's not the girl, Jack. Sooner or later you would've tried to take me. You may get me now, but your life won't be worth a dime.
I've died once already. It wasn't so bad  In fact I recommend it.
Jack, listen  we'll cut a deal 
JACK? JACK? DO I LOOK LIKE A JACK?
Jack   please   WIPE THAT LUNATIC GRIN OFF YOUR FACE.
HA! That's the best part. I CAN'T!!
Let's beat it, man. I don't like it up here.
What are you, scared of heights?
I dunno, man. After what happened to Johnny Gobs  
Look, Johnny Gobs got ripped and walked off a roof, all right? No big loss.
That ain't what I heard. That ain't what I heard at all. I heard the bat got him.
Gimme a break, will you? Shut up.
Five stories, straight down. There was no blood in the body.
No shit. It was all over the pavement.
There was no blood, man. My brother says... all the bad things you done... they come back and haunt you...
God! How old are you? There ain't no bat.
My brother's a priest, man.
No wonder you're such a chickenshit. Now shut up. There ain't no bat.
You shouldn'ta turned the gun on that kid, man. You shouldn'ta 
Do you want this money or don't you? Now shut up! Shut up 
I missed you, Lieutenant.
Sorry. We had another bat sighting.
Don't let your job interfere with your business.  Someone's been talking to Harvey Dent.
I'm on top of it. If there's a problem 
Eckhardt... our problems are your problems.
I answer to Grissom, punk. Not to you.
Why, Eckhardt. You should be thinking about the future.
Got it all figured, huh? Grissom just sits back and hands you the reins.  Maybe he don't know what we know.
What are you talking about?
About how pretty you are, pretty boy. Maybe he'd like to know 
We got 'em!
Take 'em! I want his head!
SOMEBODY'S KILLED THE POWER!!
WHAT?
SOMEBODY'S KILLED THE 
WHAT??
Boss! Jesus! They've 
They'll be sorry. They'll be sorry. MOVE OUT!
MOVE! Can't you do something??
It's a detour. They're backed up for blocks!
We'll raid the Ace the moment we get a warrant.
He'll be ready when you do. Remember what happened at the apartment.
All right, Bruce, what do you suggest?
I suggest a nice big bomb.
Good. A bomb. On a blind tip from Bruce Wayne  We do have laws.
Then for God's sake, Harvey, cancel the anniversary celebration.
We've told him we'll deal. What could he possible have to gain by 
Do you still think the Joker cares about money??
I don't know. I'm just a D.A. I don't have access to all you expert sources.
I don't... seek publicity  Will you be staying in Gotham for a while?
As far as I know.
Good. With any luck we'll run into each other.
Do you sail?
Too much work. I'm not really the physical type  Thank you, Alfred.
Two drinks and I start swinging from the rooftops. Look, I bore myself silly. Let's talk about you. How the hell did you wind up in Corto Maltese?
That's a tough one. Have you ever seen combat?
No.
Neither had I. Odd desire for a woman, I guess.
Odd desire for anyone.
Well. A couple of years ago when their president was requesting aid I went down there for Newsweek. The beaches were nice. And at nights  they had a band  I danced on the hotel patio. Of course I never saw what was really happening there. When the war broke out I had to go back. And I promised myself that this time... I wouldn't look away.
What did you see?
... Terror.
There's terror everywhere. If you train yourself to look for it.
Well, Bruce, some types are a little more obvious than others.
Bruce, really, when I say these things I don't mean to criticize you.
In other words, what right do I have to talk about terror.
As much as I do. It's not that. I don't want to be depressing, that's all.
I see. If I know how you really feel, I won't like you as much.
I'm sorry, Bruce, I Just can't seem to get a handle on this conversation.
Vicki, if I say anything cryptic, or... ambiguous, I think you should put the most flattering possible interpretation on it. Because even if it doesn't sound that way... that's how I'll mean it.
But it's not fair. I'm half drunk and you're not even 
I'll take you home if you'd like.
God. You would. Come on, Bruce. I just want to get two drinks in you. As an experiment.
Maybe we should just kiss.
... We could try that.
I don't sing very well.
Then there's one thing in the world you don't do very well. And I know what it is  Now you'll have to kill me.
To tell you the truth, I'd just about given up waiting.
I said I'd call you the minute I got free. And I did  And here we are.
Mmhmm. Lunch. Not even dinner.
All street mimes should be executed.
... Looks like a convention.
I know it's late. I  Are you there?
Yes, Bruce  I'm here 
I'm sorry I had to stand you up today. I'd like to make it up to you.
Well, Bruce  I don't think  that would be possible.
I realize... the way things have gone between us... ... I wish you'd reconsider.
I wish you'd...
Vicki?... This is Batman. I thought I'd call and see how you're doing.
... I know it's you, Bruce. I'm not going to talk to you unless we can discuss it...
Who's this 'Bruce'? Are you trying to make me jealous?
I'm serious, Bruce. We have to  !
So we just pretend none of this ever happened. We never met. We   You're going to get yourself killed, Bruce. You know that, don't you?
No one would miss me.
I don't understand it. You can do so much good for people. As Bruce Wayne.
Money makes money, Vicki. The foundation runs itself  I'm extraneous to the process.
You're one man. You can't save everybody.
What if I could save a handful?  What if I could save one?
Bruce, at the rate you're going, you can't even save yourself.
Sometimes... I don't know if there's enough of me left to save.
It's like the last time. He sent me a present before he 
Very thoughtful. Don't touch it.
Oh, Bruce. Don't tell me you carry it around with you.
I feel naked without it.
"It worked for Van Gogh. Let's kiss and make up."
The does it. It's going to be this weekend.
Keep her on the line!
... Where are you calling from?
I'm sorry, she hung up. What are 
Finding out where she is.
How can you do that if she's already off the line?
I've had an automatic tracer on this number ever since he tracked you to the museum.
Got it!
What now?
Hang on. I have to leave a message.
All this apparatus, Vicki... This house, and the money, and the power ... It was never mine. It was something I inherited. Bruce Wayne was something I inherited. All I ever hoped for was someone who could see through Bruce  who could see me  and not be frightened.
I'm frightened of you, Bruce. I'm frightened for you.
In all these years... Why couldn't I see how it wold turn out?
I don't know why I'm doing this. I half wish you'd stay a cripple.
Ohhhh... You don't mean that.
I don't, but... I do. It's just... I love you, Bruce. I don't want you to...
Vicki. Do you love half of me? Or all of me?
I assume in my usual charming manner I've just insulted the host. Alexander Knox.
Bruce Wayne.  I've read your work. I quite like it.
Great. Give me a grant.
I might consider it if you introduce me to Miss Vale.
"This is Miss Vale."  That felt redundant.
You're just back from Corto Maltese. I saw your combat photos. Quite a departure for you.
That's how it is, chum. One column  and I can bring all this tumbling down. I can take you off the streets for good.
What is it you want?
I want you to hang up the suit. And I want you to stay away from Vicki.
I can't do that. Not while the Joker's still at large.
Then stay away from Vicki. That's all I want, man. I just want your word.
See, I don't know how it happened... she's a smart girl and you are an extraordinary screwedup guy... but she's in love with you.
Tell me, Knox. If you've got the story, why haven't you printed it?
Because I... ... Because she'd never speak to me again.
Do you want a drink?
Yeah, a drink. 'Civilized,' right?
Alfred, bring something for Mr. Knox  I'll have one, too.
GET IN THE CAR!!
WHICH CAR?
Look! Police!
I know. I called them.
Shouldn't we 
What about the girl?
He won't kill her.  GODDAMMIT!
Can't we 
Too many people. Come on! SHIELDS!!
How much do you weigh?
... A hundred and eight?
...Not even a 'thank you'?
Well  I think you might consider
I'll have to ask you for that film.
I just wanted to distract them. I wasn't trying to get a picture of you.
Please.
I won't let you have it.
The Joker is a murderer. And you were as good as dead. So 
Look, I appreciate what you did for me. But this is my job. And I'm keeping those pictures.
All right, I'll develop the photos. Anything I don't want is yours.
How do I know you won't keep them all?
I'll take you with me.
Thank you, Vicki.
... Where are you taking me?
... How long have I been out?
Quite a while. I took the scenic route.
Well, I've certainly enjoyed it.  What's that?
What is this stuff? Kevlar?
Better. It's not on the market yet.
It doesn't protect your head, though.
That's why I wear a target on my chest.
How'd you find this place?
Exploring. In the woods. Many years ago.  I was a solitary child.
They don't come down here. They're afraid of the lights.
I loathe bats.
So did I, once. But I kept coming back, and... I guess I became the thing I feared most.
What is that?
Photo database. I'll do your photos now.
They've got it all wrong. They're watching the warehouses, the loading docks, looking for a tamperer. The Joker is supplying tainted ingredients at the source.
That can't be right. That would mean every shipment of every product is poisoned. We'd all be dead.
No. Every product contains one component. The elements react in combination. Hair spray won't do it. But hair spray and perfume and lipstick will. Untraceable. It's very elegant.
I just can't absorb it all. This place, the equipment. What it must have cost. Why all the secrecy? Why do you wear the mask?
I don't want to jeopardize anyone close to me.
If you don't mind my asking... Who's close to you?
Is this what you wanted?
You could've killed him, you know. You could've killed the Joker.
I had to save you, Vicki. I   Please trust me.
Like your boyfriend. He's kinda hot.
Take me. Let the boy go.
Gosh, I could kill you, but then you'd miss my party. And you, Batman  you're the guest of honor!
What are you talking about?
Batman! Don't you even recognize your old pal Jack? After all... ... You made me what I am today.
You know, we should've sat down and had us a little hearttoheart. I bet we would have got on famously.
... Murderer...
Bruce, we're both murderers. Think how many people you've killed by letting me live.
Excuse me, sir. Commissioner Gordon was compelled to leave  very unexpectedly. He asked me to convey his regrets.
Thank you, Alfred. I hope you'll excuse me. It was a great pleasure meeting you. And you.
It's all right, Alfred. Everything's under control.
... Very good, sir.
Where's the boy?
Upstairs. He's quite docile.
I know the feeling. It won't last. He's a long way ahead of where I was at his age.
Respectfully, sir... there'll never be another one like you.
How long's it been, Alfred? A quarter of a century? It seems like yesterday. I guess we ended up doing more harm than good.
Don't ever say that, sir. Don't ever believe it.
If not for you I never would've made it. You know that. My own parents couldn't have... ... The boy, Alfred. You'll both be provided for. Don't let all this got to waste.
How high up would you say that is?
I'd say about thirty feet, sir.
You know, if you cut your bathroom in half, you'd have my apartment.
Which bathroom is that, sir?
The small one.
Yes?
Alexander Knox. Gotham Globe.
Mr. Wayne is out for the day.
Actually, I wanted to talk to Batman. Pass that on to Mr. Wayne, would you?
How'd you find us?
You _are_ TwoFace, you would need to face both rivers, both uptown and downtown simultaneously. Only one spot in Gotham serves these bi zonal, bicoastal needs...
Congratulations. You get to die on the dean's list.
Yet so bright and chipper and conservative! It's so you. And yet so _you_! Very few people are both a summer _and_ a winter. But you pull it off nicely.
A man with a death wish.
Harvey. You need me. Since you've gotten out of Arkham, you've managed, what? To bungle stealing a safe? Wreck a statue? And, correct me if I'm wrong here, but weren't you outsmarted by an acned acrobat at the circus?
Let's see if you bleed green.
Holy shit.
So not everyone can be a poet. Still, I respect the sentiment.
No. Wait...
Addictive isn't it? Just Say No. Until I say yes. A little fringe benefit of working with me. Now here's the concept, counselor. Crime. My I.Q., your AK47. You help me gather production capital so I can produce enough of these to create an empire that will eclipse Bruce Wayne's forever. And, in return I will help you solve the greatest riddle of all. Who is Batman?
Where are you sending Batboy this time?
Here. Get a good seat.
Sure, E = MC squared. Until you factor in more than three dimensions. Then... Damn. Hit us again.
Haven't you had enough? Don't Think And Drive.
Not until you do that thing I like. On se tue pour des mesnonges. J'ai gache ma vie... Woah. Harsh toke.
Don't bogart that 'trode.
Oh my God. Jim Morrison was right.
About what?
Everything.
Why do we need you? You only come between us. We can be the smartest person in Gotham City. We want the empire for ourselves. Time's up, laughing boy.
Kill me? Well, alright. Go ahead. Take the empire. All yours. Hell, Harv, old pals. I'll kill me for you.
Go ahead. You can say it.
You're a genius.
We want to dust him. We truly want to dust him bad.
Oh yes, and certainly _WE_ will!
A14.
Miss.
B12.
A miss. And my favorite vitamin, I might add.
A hit.
You sunk my battleship.
_We_ sure are.
...You gonna kill me?
Might. Might not. Could say we're of two minds on the subject.
I got family. ...Please.
What say we flip for it?
...or death.
Please. I swear I won't say noth
The coin _wants_ to decide.
That floor has got to be very hard. Is that better?
Uh, yeah. Thanks, Mr..uh...Face.
Just call us Harvey. Can we get you a sandwich? A soft drink? Given all the trouble we caused you, how about we cut you in for a share of tonight's haul?
Wait! You said you'd let me go!
Never heard of a doublecross?
I really do apologize, Mr. Wayne. His project was terminated this morning...
Let me ask you something, Bruce. What is man's greatest tool?
Why be brutalized by an uncaring world? My RES Box will give Joe Q Public a realm where he is king. Not that someone like you would need it. Someone so intelligent. Witty. Charming. But for the lonely, the...
Paranoid? The psychotic?
...The Box can change their lives. Our stock coupons will spike.
Hell. Might even bring old Stickley here a few extra bucks. Huh, Fred?
Fred?
I'll show you it works.
What the hell is going on here?
Yo. Charlie. Gimmie an order of brain deepfry. Extra well done. Hold the neurons. Patient exhibits symptoms of psycho neural overload. Notation: obviously higher settings can be dangerous to the subject. Riddle me this, Fred. What is everything to someone and nothing to everyone else? Your mind of course. And now mine pumps with the power of yours. New from Brainbok. Da pump. Think faster. Reason higher. Outcognate every homey on the court of life. Da pump. Yeah. Ho! Mark. I sense an odd penchant for the anagramatic. The acrostic. The cryptographic. What doth this bode? Answer me Marcutio, you little runt. Fred, I must confess you were a wonderful appetizer. Simply divine. But now I yearn for a meal of substance. The main course. A wide and varied palette. Ah, to taste the mind of a hero. A nobleman. A poet. A chick in a short skirt wouldn't be so bad either.
...Fired...your fired...your fired. You understand?! Fired!!
I don't think so.
Chase?
Of course you are. And what a grand pursuit you must be. What do you think of my new invention?
Edward...
Who is it?
It's Dr. Meridian. Chase. Do you remember me?
How could I forget?
Dr. Burton tells me you know who Batman is.
Yesssssss. I know!
Who is The Batman, Edward?
Can't tell if you don't say please.
You're right, Edward. I didn't mean to be impolite. Please.
Okay. I'm outta here.
Excuse me.
I figure telling that cop I'd stay here saved me a truckload of social service interviews and good will. So no offense but thanks. See ya.
Where will you go? The circus is halfway to Metropolis by now.
I got no place at the circus without my family. I'm going to get a fix on TwoFace. Then I'm going to kill him.
Listen, Dick. Killing TwoFace won't take the pain away. It'll make it worse.
Look, spare me the sermons, okay. You're just some rich guy who is trying to do a good deed. You don't even know me.
I need to be part of this.
Absolutely not.
Me and my brother Chris were putting money aside so our folks could retire. Dad's knee was going. Chris was engaged, you know that? TwoFace took...everything. Now I can pay him back.
What I do isn't about revenge.
Back off, man.
You don't understand. It's an addiction. You fight night after night, trying to fill the emptiness. But the pain's back in the morning. And somewhere along the way it stops being a choice. I want better for you.
Save the sermons about how great you want my life to be, okay, Bruce? If it weren't for Batman my parents wouldn't be dead. You don't get it, do you? This is all your fault.
What the hell did you think you were doing?
You have a real gratitude problem. You know that, Bruce? I need a name. Batboy? The Dark Earl? What's a good side kick name?
How about Richard Grayson, college student?
...I missed TwoFace by a heartbeat. When we catch him, you gotta let me kill him!
We don't kill. Killing is what damns you. It. What am I talking about? This conversation is over. You're going away to school.
I saved your life. You owe me. So either you let me be your partner or I'm going after Harvey on my own.
You can't.
Dick, let go. Revenge will eat you alive. Trust me. I know.
But what about all the good we can do? There are monsters out there. Gotham needs us.
And when you finally get TwoFace?
Exactly. And once you'd killed him you'd be lost. Like me. All this has to be a choice. Otherwise...it's a curse.
Bruce, you can't.
Chase is coming for dinner. Why don't you join us.
How can I help you, Mr. Wayne?
Somebody's been sending me love letters. Commissioner Gordon thought you might give me your expert opinion.
Psychiatrists make you nervous?
Just ones this beautiful.
The infamous Wayne charm. Does it ever shut off?
On occasion. Usually at night.
Still play with dolls, Doctor?
She's a Malaysian dream warden. She stands sentry while you sleep and calms your dreams. Need one?
Me? No. Only things that need calming in my dreams are the Rockettes.
My opinion. This letter writer is a total wacko.
Wacko? That a technical term?
Patient apparently suffers from acute obsessional syndrome with potential homicidal styles. Work better for you?
So what you're saying, this guy's a total wacko, right?
Exactly.
I think the question would be, do you have a thing for bats?
So, this Riddler, he's dangerous?
What do you know about obsession?
Not much.
It's a stretch but I'll manage.
The letter writer is obsessed with you. His only escape may be...
To kill me.
You understand obsession better than you let on.
No insights here, doc. Just trying to get comfortable on your couch. Oops. Times up.
That's usually my line.
Look, I'd love to keep chatting
Would you? I'm not so sure.
But I'm going to have to get you out of those clothes.
Excuse me.
And into a black dress.
I'm surprised you aren't blind by now.
I'm sorry. Who are you?
Like normal folks.
What? This isn't normal?
That kid is amazing.
I don't get you Bruce Wayne.
Me? I'm easy. Especially after a couple of martinis.
The glib, cavalier routine, it really is an act, isn't it?
Don't believe it. I'm just skin deep.
Look, I'm rock climbing Sunday. How about coming along?
Bruce, much to my surprise, you seem like a really great guy...
But...
Well, I met someone...
Fast work. You just moved here.
You could say he kind of dropped out of the sky and bang. I think he felt it too.
He sure did.
What?
I said I'm sure he did.
The style of the letters I'm getting matches those found at the crime sites. Why would The Riddler be sending me riddles? Who's your decorator? UHaul?
Sorry. I haven't even had time to unpack. Instant coffee okay?
A lot of what happened is jagged. Pieces missing. I can't really remember. I just get flashes. Usually in my dreams. I'd kind of gotten used to them. At least accepted them....
And now....
They've changed. The dreams, I mean. There's a new element I don't understand. A book. Black. Covered in leather....
Find anything interesting?
Why do I feel like the other man, here?
Come on, Bruce. This is what I do for a living.
I'd say this goes a little beyond taking your work home.
What do you want me to say? That I'm not attracted to him?
Why do you do that?
What?
Throw up that ridiculous superficial mask. If you're jealous...
I'm not
You want me close but you won't let me near. What's the terrible, dark secret you're protecting everyone from?
In a sense we are all two people. The side we show in daylight. And that side we keep in shadow.
Rage. Anger. Passion. Pain.
If I didn't know better, I'd say you were sulking.
Keep me off the couch, Doc. Your fees are a little rich for me.
Touchy, touchy.
So how goes your `scholarly' pursuit of Batman?
Oh God, Bruce. You're still jealous.
Spare me the diagnosis, okay? You're being ridiculous. I can't be jealous of Batman. Can I?
And the beast slouches towards Bethelem.
Excuse me, boys. I'd hate to stop this testosterone flood on my account
There's something I want to talk with you about. It's...Well, we.. I...
Okay, tiger, take it slow. You going to give me your pin or something?
Your memories are repressed. They're trying to break through. Relax. Try to remember.
I don't want to remember!
Stop fighting.
My parents are laid out in the library. Their skin smells like talcum powder. I'm so small. My father's diary is on his desk like always. I'm opening the book. Reading. I'm running out into the storm. The book is in my hands. I can't hear my screams over the rain. I'm falling...
What does it say? What hurts so much, Bruce? What does the book say?
I don't.
You do know. Try.
The last entry read, Bruce insists on seeing a movie tonight. Bruce insists. I made them go out. I made them take me to the movie. To that theater... It was my fault. I killed them.
Oh God, Bruce, you were a child. You weren't responsible.
...Not the bat?
What?
I always thought it was the bat that scared me that night that changed my life. But it wasn't. The real fear was hiding underneath: what I read in the journal, that my parents' deaths were my fault. That's what I couldn't remember. That's the crime I've been paying for all these years.
What are you talking about?
Chase. There's something I need to tell you
Mr...?
Bruce Wayne. In the flesh.
Um...I'm pretty sure I'm Bruce Wayne. And you are?
Nygma. Edward Nygma. You hired me. Personally. Just like I tell everyone. Well, we've never actually met, but your name was on the hire slip.
I'm gonna need that hand back, Ed.
What? Ah yes. Of course. I'm sorry. It's just that...you're my idol. And some people have been trying to keep us apart.
Mr. Nygma, you'll forgive me for being rude. But what exactly is on your mind?
Precisely. What's on all our minds? Brainwaves. The future of Wayne Enterprises is Brainwaves!
Call my secretary, she'll set something up. Factory looks great, folks. Keep up the good work.
Wait. You can't go.
We'll talk some other 
No. Don't leave me! My invention! I need you!
So glad you could come.
What? Oh, Edward. Hi. Congratulations. Great party
The press were just wondering what it feels like to be outsold, outclassed, and generally outdone in every way... And what light through yonder window breaks? `Tis the east. And you are...
What? Oh, it's very impressive.
Gracious even in defeat. How vaguely disappointing. When all this could have been ours together.
No grape could be more intoxicating than you, my dear. But we make due. To your charms. Skol.
Nostrovia.
La'chiem.
Slanta.
Rinka.
Banzai.
I notice you've subdivided your B coupons. Feeling a little light on principle?
Actually, I like to divest just before a major recapitalization.
Welcome to my parlor said the Riddler to the Bat. How's tricks?
No more tricks, Edward. Release Chase and Dick. This is between you and me.
Death. Death. Without taste, sound and all around us. Because there is no way for me to save them or myself. This is one giant death trap.
Excellent. See. Who says a guy in a rubber suit can't be smart? Well, it's been grand. Sorry you all have to die now.
Wait. I have a riddle for you.
For _me_? Really? Tell me.
I see without seeing. To me, darkness is as clear as daylight. What am I?
Oh please. You're blind as a bat.
Exactly!
_Two_ million dollars waiting to be transferred from the _Second_ Bank of Gotham on the _22nd_ How could Harvey? _Two_Face resist?
And you are?
...dual personalities. Abnormal psychology. Washington's poster child for the criminally insane. I read your work.
I'm flattered. Not every girl makes a superhero's night table. You might have some interesting insights into TwoFace.
Why's that?
Let's just say I could write a hell of a paper on a grown man who dresses like a flying rodent.
Bats aren't rodents, Dr. Meridian.
I didn't know that. See? You _are_ interesting. And call me Chase. By the way, do you have a first name? Or do I just call you bats?
He's home. I sent the signal.
What's wrong?
Last night at the circus. I noticed something about Dent. His coin. He's obsessed with justice. It's his Achilles' heel. It can be exploited.
I wish I could say my interest in you was purely professional...
Are you trying to get under my cape, Doctor?
A girl cannot live by psychoses alone.
It's the car, right? Chicks love the car.
What is it about the wrong kind of man? In grade school it was guys with earrings. College, motorcycles and leather jackets.
Now black rubber.
Try a fireman. Less to take off.
I don't mind the work. Pity I can't see behind the mask.
We all wear masks.
My life's an open book. You read?
I'm not the kind of guy who blends in at a family picnic.
We could give it a try. I'll bring the wine, you bring the scarred psyche.
You are direct, aren't you?
You like strong women. I've done my homework. Or do I need skintight vinyl and a whip?
I haven't had much luck with women...
Maybe you just haven't met the right woman...
Help Chase. I'll be back.
Did TwoFace call him Bruce?
Welcome, Master Grayson. I'm Alfred.
How ya doin', Al?
Al?
Big house. How many rooms?
May I help you, Master Grayson?
How come this is the only locked door around this museum? What's back there?
Master Wayne's dead wives.
Up here, Al.
Just checking, young sir.
Four seconds from...
The dreams again, sir?
I think they're getting worse.
It's a wonder you sleep at all.
...Would it be a terrible imposition to ask you to take better care of your equipment?
Then you'd have nothing to complain about.
Hardly a worry, sir.
How's the sonar coming, Alfred?
A few hitches sir, but I'm confident we'll have a prototype in no time.
It'll never work.
I believe you said the same thing about the Batmobile.
Scholarly research?
She has an excellent mind.
If I misinterpreted your interest in the lady, I humbly apologize
I wonder if she'd go out with me.
Apology hastily retracted.
Do you remember the night I fell into that cave and the bat chased me?
Your parents' wake. Rain fell like tears.
...The night Batman was born. What was I doing in the fields that night, Alfred? What sent me running out into that storm? I keep dreaming about it but I just can't remember.
I don't know, sir. Your dear parents. Suddenly gone. So much loss...
I remember the bat, though. His scream. Those eyes. i was sure the fear would kill me. In time I came to believe that if I became a monster, that if I was feared, I wouldn't be scared anymore. I was wrong. They think I became Batman to fight crime. I became Batman to fight the fear. And instead I became the fear.
Gee, I'm not sure. Alfred? How many rooms? Total?
Ninetythree, including the sauna.
Take any three you like. After you get settled we can...
It's happening again. Just like my parents. A monster comes out of the night. A scream. Two gunshots. I killed them.
What did you say?
He killed them. TwoFace. He slaughtered that boy's parents.
No. You said I. I killed them.
Don't be ridiculous.
Sorry to bother you, sir. I have some rather distressing news about Master Dick.
Is he all right?
I'm afraid Master Dick has... gone traveling.
He ran away?
Actually, he took the car.
He boosted the Jag? Is that all?
Not the Jaguar. The _other_ car.
The _Rolls_?
_No_, sir. _The_ _other_ _car_!
Too much wealth. Too fast. Half of Gotham zombiedout. A technology that self destructs. He's protecting more than industrial secrets, Alfred.
I shall be near at hand. Should you need me. And sir, I know it's difficult but try and have a good time.
Maybe they're right.
Which `they' might that be, sir?
Jack Napier's dead. My parents are avenged. The Wayne Foundation contributes a small fortune to police and crime prevention programs.
Why do I keep doing this?
Why, indeed?
Could I let Batman go? For Dick. For me. Could I leave the shadows? Have a life. Friends. Family...
Dr. Meridian...
She's the first woman in a long time that's... No. She's the first woman ever. And she loves Batman. Not Bruce Wayne. If I let go of Batman I'll lose her.
Perhaps. Perhaps not. Why not ask the lady?
How? As Batman, knowing she wants me? Or as Bruce Wayne and hope...?
How are you feeling, young man?
Not that young. It's been a long time since you've called me that.
Old habits die hard. Are you alright?
As well as can be expected, I guess. Give me the bad news.
Dick has run away. They have taken Dr. Meridian. And I'm afraid they found the cave, sir. It's been destroyed.
I'm Batman? I remember my life as Bruce Wayne. But all this. It's like the life of a stranger.
Perhaps the fall...
There's one other thing. I feel..
What?
...Afraid.
Bruce. Son. Listen to me. You are a kind man. A strong man. But in truth you are not the most sane man.
...A bat.
What?
I remember a bat. A monster. A demon. Chasing me. Oh my God, Alfred.
No demons, son. Your monsters are here. Until you fact that, I fear you will spend your life fleeing them.
Master, Bruce?
...Batman, Alfred. I'm Batman.
All the answers are numbers.
But 1, 3, 1, 8, & 5. What do they mean?
What do maniacs always want?
Recognition, of course.
Precisely. So this number is probably some kind of calling card.
Letters in the alphabet.
Of course. 13 is M....MRE.
How about, MR. E.
Mystery.
And another name for Mystery?
Enigma.
Exactly. Mr. E. Mister Edward Nygma.
What now sir?
Claw Island. Nygma's headquarters. I'm sure that's where they're keeping Chase. Are all the Batsuits destroyed?
All except the prototype with the sonar modifications you so disapprove of. But it hasn't yet been tested.
Tonight's a good night.
What do we have here? A lovely new supply of Venom. I'll just take this to my laboratory for further study.
What exactly are you working on in there? What are those screams?
You have to tell me what you're doing with my Venom.
You must show me your secrets, blossom, before I show you mine.
...Our original sponsor had no stomach for military applications. he cut the funding for our work 
Our work?
Without your research, I could never have come this far. Join me. The two of us, entwined, side by side...
Join you? I've spent my life trying to protect plants from extinction and now you corrupt my research into some maniacal scheme for world domination. When I get through you won't be able to get a job teaching high school chemistry, do you hear me, you psycho?
Well, I can respect your opinion.
Dr. Isley? Pamela? You look great. Especially for a dead woman.
Hello, Jason. I think I've had a change of heart.
Give it up. If you threw yourself
At you? Polly want a kiss?
I'm glad you came. I can't breathe without you.
I want us to be together. But I need to know you're serious about turning over a new leaf. I need a sign.
How about dangerous curves?
Of trust. Tell me your plan.
Kiss me and I'll tell you.
Tell me and I'll kiss you.
Freeze has turned the new telescope into a freezing gun. He's about to turn Gotham into an ice cube.
I've got to stop him.
One kiss, my love. For luck.
Bad luck, I'm afraid. It's time to die, little bird.
What do you mean?
You should have heeded your pointy eared pal. These lips can be murder.
Then you never loved me?
Love you? I loathe your bipedal arrogance, your animal superiority. My only joy is knowing that even now my poison kiss is sucking the life from your apelike face.
You're too late. Say byebye birdie.
Sorry to disappoint you. But rubber lips are immune to your charms.
Freezy, I'm feeling...hot.
I find that unlikely.
Okay, my hair is brittle, my skin is dry and I don't care. I'd weather blizzards to have you. You're the most perfect man I've ever known.
To be frozen. To never change. A life of perpetual iceolation. There is little perfection in that.
What say we turn up the heat?
You're skating on thin ice. My passion thaws for my bride alone.
Forget your frosty femme. These lips are wet and ready to get frostbite.
Hop away little bunny. Before I cool your jets. Permanently.
Let me guess, Plant Girl? Vine Lady? Ms. Moss?
Listen, Captain Cold, the suit, maybe, even though silver went out in the 70's. But those boots are unforgivable. What is it with men?
I'd love to stand here all day and exchange fashion tips but I'm kind of pressed for time. So hand over the diamond, Garden Gal, or I turn you into mulch.
Impressive
Well, I, my most unabominable snowman, have been impressed by you. In fact I propose a pairing. So I'm here to set you free.
An enticing offer. But what does the lady want in return?
Let's cool it for now. There's someone I want you to meet.
I love that belt. What are you, about a fifty Big and Tall?
I always go a size smaller. Makes me look slimmer.
No gun. How disarming.
I wonder if I can get a cell with a view of the gardens?
Dear daisy, don't despair.
My reserves are exhausted. I must have the gems that power my suit.
You are looking unseasonably hot. Let's go inside and grab your rocks.
In my weakened state I am no match for the bat and the bird.
You leave Batman and Robin to me.
Trust me. Vegetable magnetism.
Fine. While I retrieve my diamonds, you and meatloaf will bring my wife to your lair. She's frozen in 
Hold it. You never said anything about a wife, frozen or otherwise
You will rescue my wife
OK, OK. Ms. Ivy to the rescue. Now where do I find your brittle bride?
Make yourself right at home.
Where is my wife?
There was nothing I could do. Batman deactivated her. She's dead.
You lie!
Their bones will turn to ice. Their blood will freeze in my hands.
Kill them. Of course. But why stop there? Why should only Batman and Robin die while the society that created them goes unpunished?
Yes. I shall replay the world for sentencing me to a life without the warmth of human comfort. I will blanket the city in endless winter. First Gotham and then the world.
Just what I had in mind. Everything dead on Earth except us. A chance for mother nature to start again. Plants and flowers are the oldest species on the planet yet they are defenseless against man. Sorry hon, this is for science. Behold the dawn of a new age.
I have created a race of plants with the strength of the deadliest animals. Once you have frozen mankind, my mutants will overrun the globe. The Earth will become a brave new world of only plants. And we shall rule them. For we will be the only two people left in the world.
Adam and Evil.
You will distract the bat and bird while I prepare to freeze Gotham.
Can't we just ice them along with the rest of the citizenry?
That is far too merciful. Batman will watch his beloved Gotham perish, then I will kill him.
As a team, the duncely duo protect each other. But the Robin is young. Impetuous. If I could get him alone
One kiss and you could lift the mask from his lifeless face. Their secret identities would be revealed. But how best to bait a brid?
The way to a boy's heart is through his ego. What strapping young hero could resist his very own...signal?
Inspired, Ms. Ivy.
I'm hungry. I think I'll have poultry.
Prepare for a bitter harvest. Winter has come at last.
Not good.
That's gotta hurt.
Somehow he survived. But the cryoslution mutated his body.
What happened to his wife?
Presumed dead. No one knows.
He needs extreme cold to survive. His cryosuit uses diamond enhanced lasers to keep him at zero degrees.
Let me get this straight. A brilliant citizen, disfigured by a horrible accident, reemerges as a psychotic supervillain bent on theft, revenge and destruction. You see a pattern here?
< Maybe it's something in the water.
I need the Wayne Diamonds.
We gonna trap ourselves a snowman?
Absolutely. Just as soon as you take ten hours training in the simulator.
Whoa, I made a mistake. I'm sorry. Don't go all protective on me. It won't happen again.
Dick, you were reckless. You could have been killed.
I'm fine. See. Me. here. Alive. How are we gonna work together if you're never going to trust me?
I got the diamond. Quell problemo, Bruce?
You left your back wide open. Freeze could have killed you.
Of course. Alfred still keeps your mother's picture in his room.
Anybody want to tell us kids in the cheap seats who Joanna Clark is?
He's dying. And I can't deal with it.
But he's never said a word
You know Alfred. He'd never say Anything. But I can tell. Until you came along, Alfred was the only family I ever had. Without him, I don't know how I would have survived. He saved my life, Dick. And I've never told him.
Talk to him, Bruce. There's nothing worse than losing someone without telling them how you feel.
I'm scared, Dick. Maybe for the first time in my life. I'm really scared.
McGregor's Syndrome. That's what Freeze's wife had.
Yes. But Alfred's condition is less severe. Freeze's research says he cured a case like Alfred's. It just doesn't say how.
I checked the medical database. No one else is even close.
I'm late for the dedication. Then I go after Freeze and Ivy. Alone.
Like hell you do.
Dick, don't push me right now.
Or what? No one can capture Ivy but the big bad Bat. Crap! You just want her for yourself. Don't you? Answer me, damn it!
Yes! Yes, I want her so badly I can taste it. That's the whole point. Look at us. Orphans. Isolated. Obsessed to the exclusion of life, love, family. We're perfect targets. She's done something to us, got us fighting over her somehow.
Hail the allknowing Bruce Wayne. Here's what I know, she loves me, Not you and it's driving you crazy. It's why you stopped us from kissing. Because if you can't have her, nobody can.
She's clouded your mind. You're not thinking straight.
Oh but I am. For the first time in a long time. I'm through living in your shadow. All that ends right now.
That's no batlight, it's a birdcall.
Her name is Pamela Isley. I saw her talking to Gordon. She must have stolen his keys, altered the signal
And she did it all for me. For love.
She's infected us with some kind of pheromone extract
Is that it, Bruce? I'm under some magic spell?
She wants to kill you.
You'd say anything to keep me away from her. To keep her for yourself.
You once said to me that being part of a team means trusting your partner. That sometimes counting on someone else is the only way to win. DO you remember?
One question. When Batgirl and I rolled off the telescope, how come you didn't try and save us? It was the first time I fell and you weren't there to catch me.
I knew you could handle it.
No!?
Umm. What I mean is...no plans at the moment...
But soon...
And?
Can I get some help over here?
You're not even listening to me.
What? I'm sorry. You were saying...
We've been going out over a year now and...Okay, here goes. Bruce, I want to spend my life with you.
Julie, I'm not the marrying kind. There are things about me you wouldn't understand.
I know you're a dedicated bachelor. That you've had a your wild nights.
Wild doesn't exactly cover it.
But there's nothing you've done under the cover of darkness I couldn't learn to understand.
I wouldn't bet on that.
I'm betting on you. You'll make someone a good husband one day. But I can't wait around forever. Don't answer now. Just think it over. Here's some food for thought.
Who's Ivy?
What?
You just called me Ivy. Who's Ivy?
I wish I knew.
Dr. Isley. it was like I could feel you in the room. You're...enchanting. Gorgeous. The most beautiful woman I've ever seen. If you're..um... free...this evening.
Bruce? What are you doing?
Make a choice, Bruce. Her or me.
Well...um...her.
You were right. I get it. You're not the marrying kind. You've made your point. Goodbye Bruce Wayne.
They're overly protective. You're Not going to hurt me are you, Ms...
Dr. Pamela Isley.
What can I do for you, Doctor? A research grant? A hospital wing?
Actually, I already work for you. Or did. Your arboreal preservation project in South America.
We cut our support. A conflict of ideologies. Dr. Woodrue was a lunatic.
I see you knew him.
That lab was consumed by fire last week. how did you manage to escape?
I have here a proposal showing how Wayne Enterprises can immediately cease all actions that toxify our environment.
Forget the stars. Look here, at the Earth, our mother, our womb. She deserves our loyalty and protection. And yet you spoil her lands, poison her oceans, blacken her skies. You're killing her.
Your intentions are noble, but no diesel fuel for heat. No coolants to preserve food. Millions would die of cold and hunger alone.
Acceptable losses in a battle to save the planet.
People come first, Dr. Isley.
Tell me, billionaire, would you warm faster to my pleas if I looked more like Ms. January here?
Although the Wayne Foundation is hosting the event, sadly I will be unable to attend. Thank you all. Good day, Doctor.
Physical perfection, charm and wealth tossed over for a dowdy spinster. How do you explain your behavior?
I can't. But perhaps tonight, over dinner...I've just had an opening.
Maybe your witless playboy persona works on every bimbo du jour but I am not the least bit titillated by your attentions. So back off or I'll have you in court quicker than you can spell sexual harassment. Got me?
Nice suit. And today you are?
Nightwing. Scourge of darkest evil.
This is all about fashion for you, isn't it?
It's the gear. Chicks love the gear.
... A giant drilling truck burrowing under the city ...
Mr. Freeze.
The batcomputer tracks him heading for the Gotham Museum.
The new antiquities exhibit. The Second Sun of the Sudan.
Of course. He's going to steal the giant white diamond.
No, Robin. He's going to jail.
I was just hanging around.
I thought you were going to stay in the museum and round up the thugs.
How about, nice to see you? Glad you're here to save my life.
Watch the first step.
Surf's up.
You think Freeze will take the bait?
He'll be here.
You don't have two million. Three million  
I'll borrow it from you. Four million  
Pull back. You can't make the jump.
I can make it.
She's definitely part of this. It's weird, for a while Ivy was all I could think about. But then...
I know. The feeling just vanished.
I can't believe we were fighting over a bad guy.
Bad, yes. Guy, no. This is one majorly beautiful evil person.
I'm totally over her. Positively.
Me too. Great stems, though.
Ummhmmmm.
Definitely.
How did you...?
Open Sesame...Chicken.
She's still alive. He's adapted his freezing technology to reverse McGregor's Syndrome. He's even found a cure for the early stages of the disease.
Can he save her?
No. Her case is too advanced. But maybe, someday, with more research
No beauty...
Just the beast.
Remember the victim at the airport. Toxins introduced through the mouth.
What are you talking about?
Why is she so desperate to kiss us? I'm betting her lips are poison.
A poison kiss? You have some real issues with women, you know that? You just couldn't stand that she was about to kiss me. Couldn't stand that something might be mine and not yours. Could you?!
We gotta get those locks changed.
She knows who we are.
I guess we'll just have to kill her.
Kill her later. We've got work to do.
No sign of the snowman.
Maybe he melted.
If we could relay the sunlight
From the other side of the equator
Winded, old timer?
Don't make me kill you in front of the girl.
You were a great scientist once. Don't squander your genius on evil.
I hate being lectured.
After you have frozen, your icy tomb will plummet back to Gotham.
Freeze, you're mad. This capsule will slaughter thousands.
Mr. Bane, I'll finish off the city. You, as they say in showbiz, are on. Take the boys and kill the kids. But bring me the Bat.
We have eleven minutes to stop Freeze And thaw the city.
You're loosing your cool
I think not. There'll be no hot time in this old town tonight. You'll get a charge out of this.
Go on, kill me too. Just as you killed my wife.
I didn't kill your wife.
Alpha. Got it. What the hell is attack plan Alpha?
Divide and conquer.
Youwsa! Nothing but air.
Batgirl, Baatgirl, Baatgirl.
This is easy.
Crimefighter's rule number one: never say that.
Why?
Crimefighter's rule number two.
I'm afraid to ask.
Be ready for anything.
Pow! What! Kazow!
What exactly are you doing?
I don't know. It just feels right.
It'll take the satellites about a minute to realign, but...damn!
Damn? Damn is not good.
Those targeting mirrors are frozen. The sun beam won't work.
Please be looking for me.
I'm so sorry to trouble you, but
Al's main squeeze. Is she here? I'm about to scrape the bottom of my shoe off my tongue, right?
My parents were killed in an auto accident ten years ago. Alfred has been supporting me ever since.
I could have made it, you know. I didn't need your help.
Whatever you say, lady. It's all in a day's work for me.
This is to replace the bike I lost. I'll get you the rest.
Keep it.
Of course, Dick Grayson, ward of the fabulously wealthy Bruce Wayne. Why would you need a few hundred dollars?
Hey, what's your problem?
I guess, the truth is I'm just not comfortable with the idle rich. Even when they try to act like heroes.
I started racing after my parents died. There was something about the speed, the danger, that took me out of myself, that made the hurt go away. You wouldn't understand.
You'd be surprised.
Street racing isn't exactly an acceptable major at Oxbridge. They kicked me out. it doesn't matter. I've won enough money to do what I've always dreamed.
Just don't tell me you're hoping to run away and join the circus.
Alfred has supported me my whole life. Now I'm going to pay him back. I'm going to liberate him from his dismal life of servitude.
What are you talking about?
Servants, Masters, it's ridiculous. Alfred is the sweetest, most noble man alive and he's subjugated all his life and dreams to someone else.
Alfred and Bruce are like family.
Paying someone to prepare your meals and do your laundry and clean your dishes, you call that family?
Alfred's happy here.
Happy. You honestly don't know, do you? You can't even see what's in front of your own eyes.
I'm on break from
Oxbridge Academy?
Their new computer sciences division. How did you know?
I recognized the accent.
Sometimes counting on someone else is the only way to win.
Hey, I'm the one who kicked Ivy's botanical butt. Personally. Me. I did.
You are going back to school.
He's overeager, impulsive. I can't trust him not to get hurt.
Perhaps the truth is you don't really trust anyone.
Don't tell me you're on his side. Again.
Despite all your talents, you are still a novice in the ways of family. Dick follows the same ends as you but gets there by his own course. You must learn to trust him. For that is the nature of family.
I must have dozed off. My sincerest apologies, sir.
No apology necessary. That's the first time in thirty years.
You have?
Secrets are a virtual prerequisite in this house, don't you think?
Well, I hope you'll stay with us.
There's a lovely inn just down 
Oh, but, sir. So much goes on
Don't be silly, Alfred. After all, she's family.
Congratulations on your apprehension of Mr. Freeze. Batman monopolized the evening news.
Thanks.
Is there something wrong, sir?
Alfred, am I pigheaded? Is it always my way or the highway?
Why, yes, actually. Death and chance stole your parents. But rather than become a victim, you have done everything in your power to control the fates. For what is Batman if not an effort to master the chaos that sweeps our world, an attempt to control death itself.
But I can't can I?
No, my boy. I'm afraid none of us can.
I am as well as can be expected.
Alfred, I know you're sick  I can get you the best doctors.
I've seen the best doctors! A gentleman does not discuss his health. It's not civilized. I hope I've taught you at least that much, young man.
Have you ever regretted your life working here, Alfred?
Attending to heroes? No sir. My Only regret is that I was never able to be out there with you.
Not all heroes wear masks.
Alfred, if I've never told you...I just want to say...
Yes?
I've spent my whole life trying to beat back death. What good are all my heroics now if I can't save you?
Everyone dies, Master Bruce. There's no defeat in that. Victory comes in fighting for what we know is right while we still live.
I love you, old man.
Remember this. And remember it always. I'm proud of you. And I love you too, son.
Alfred, old friend, I could use your help right now.
Right here, sir.
It's good to see you.
What seems to be the problem?
Women.
That, sir, does not compute.
First Ivy had an intoxicating effect on both Dick and me. Tonight my feelings spread to someone else.
Specify, please.
Pamela Isley. I was so attracted to her I couldn't reason clearly. I still can't. She used to work for Wayne Enterprises. Find a file.
Coming on line now, sir.
Advanced botany. DNA splicing. Recombinant animal plant patterns. Pheromone extractions.
Pheromones?
Glandular secretions from animals. Scents that create powerful emotions. Fear. Rage...
Passion. Of course. Find the photo of Ivy after the flower ball.
What is it?
It appears, sir, that someone has stolen the batsignal.
Alfred, are you...?
Rather disappointed at how poorly I taught you proper housekeeping. And quite well, it seems. Thanks to you, son. Thanks to you all.
How long has it been, Uncle Alfred?
Ten years. Barbara isn't really me niece, sir. She's Joanna Clark's daughter.
Joanna and I were in love in London. But when I realized our age difference was too extreme 
Uncle Alfred left for America. Much to my mother's dismay 
Eventually she married a young physician.
You certainly will not.
Oh no, those things frighten me.
I'm sorry, Uncle, I came to tuck you in. And...
You came to tuck me in. That's quite a switch. I am looking for my brother, Wilfred. He is first butler to the Maharajah of Mirajanpore. But Mirajanpore is a floating court, it travels across India, so Wilfred can be rather difficult to find.
I guess they don't have fax machines on elephants.
I have been trying to reach Wilfred with no success. As one grows older, one yearns for family.
It's good to see you again, Uncle. I've missed you.
As I've missed you. Sleep well, child.
I'm sorry. I was too late.
Too late for what, dear child?
I came to give you your freedom, a chance to live the life you choose. The same gift you gave me.
I have been part of the greatest adventure ever know. I have found purpose here, and the family I could never have.
Find my brother Wilfred. Give him This. I have duties he must fulfill in my stead. Only family can be trusted.
What is it?
It is the hearts of two good men whom I have had the honor of calling son. Take it, child. But I implore you, never open it. You look so like your mother.
Uncle Alfred?
In spirit only, I'm afraid.
The boys need help.
Working late? I'm touched.
No, I am. Yes, I'm boning up for your Bruce Wayne meeting in the morning. I pulled all the files on the proposed power plant, and Mr. Wayne's hopedfor investment... I've studied up on all of it ... I even opened the protected files and 
Why, how industrious. And how did you open protected files, may I ask?
Well I figured that your password was "Finster." Your Pomeranian. And it was. And it's all very interesting, though a bit on the technical side, I mean about how the power plant is a power plant in name only since in fact it's gonna be one big giant...
Big giant <u>capacitor</u>. And that, instead of generating power it'll sort of be   <u>sucking</u> power, from Gotham City, and storing it ... stockpiling it, sort of? Which, unless I'm being dense, is a novel approach, I'd say.
And who ... would you say this <u>to</u>?
... Where did curiosity get the cat?
I'm no cat. I'm just an assistant. A <u>secretary</u> 
And a very, very good one.
Too good?
It's our secret. Honest. How can you be so mean to someone so meaningless?
I must protect my interests, Ms. Kyle. And Interest Number One, is <u>moi</u>.
Okay, go ahead. Intimidate me, bully me if it makes you feel big. I mean, it's not like you can just kill me.
Actually, it's a lot like that.
Selina?! Selina ... Selina ...
That's my name, Maximillions. Don't wear it out, babe, or I'll make you buy me a new one.
Uh, Selina, this is, uh, Bruce Wayne.
Morning, Max. Bummer about the store. You insured?
I damn well better be. In fact I want you to phone those goniffs over at Gotham Insurance and tell them 
Actually I have to split. Take a "personal day." You don't mind? Max, you're tops.
Actually this is all just a bad dream. You're home in bed. Heavily sedated, resting comfortably, and dying from the carcinogens you've personally spewed in a lifetime of profiteering. Tragic irony or poetic justice? You tell me.
My god ... it's true. The Penguin Man of the sewers ... Please, don't h
Quiet, Max. What do you think, this is a conversation?
What, is that supposed to "hypnotize" me?
No, just give you a splitting headache.
Well it's not working.
Most of all, I want to find out who I am. By finding my parents. Learning my "human" name. Simple stuff that the good people of Gotham take for granted.
And exactly <u>why</u> am <u>I</u> gonna help <u>you</u>?
Yawn. That coulda come from anywhere.
What about the documents that prove you own half the firetraps in Gotham?
If there were such documents  and that is not an admission  I would have seen to it they were shredded.
A lot of tape and a little patience make all the difference. By the way, how's Fred Adkins, your old partner?
Fred. Fred? He's ... actually he's been on an extended vacation, and 
You know what, Mr. ... PenguinSir? I think perhaps I could help orchestrate a little welcomehome scenario for you. And once we're both back home, perhaps we can help each other out ...
You won't regret this, Mr. Shreck.
Don't look, Oswald. It's a surprise.
A big bag of fan mail? Filthy lucre? Wait don't tell me ... Is it a broad?
Bu ... wh ... I ... I mean ...
Yes, adulation is a cross to bear. God knows <u>I</u> know. But someone's got to supplant our standingin thewayofprogress Mayor and don't deny it, Mr. Cobblepot, you've got the magic!
Max, elections happen in November. Is this not late December, or have I inhaled too much swamp gas in my time?
Wonder if it's worth my time.
We need signatures. To overturn the ballot. I can supply those, Oswald.
I could teach her my "French flipper" trick...
Oswald: We need one more thing.
A platform? Lemme see ... Stop global warming. Start global cooling. Make the world a colder place. <u>Frigid</u> ...
That's fine, Oswald. But to get the Mayor recalled, we still need a catalyst, a trigger, an incident. Like the Reichstag fire, the Gulf of Tonkin.
"You're doin' great, Mayor Cobblepot." "Your table is ready, Mayor Cobblepot." "I need you, Oswald. I need you now. That's the biggest parasol I ever "
Precisely. But they must come and go via the plumbing ducts that I've provided. That shall be as sacred as the separation between church and state.
... Want 'em to go apeshit. Nutso. Ballistic ... Do permanent damage to little old ladies. Loot, pillage, annoy people in a big way ... <u>Sounds</u> fun. But I ...
I got my own ... <u>quest</u> to pursue up here. It's crucial I not get sidetracked, with some silly ...
Sidetracked? Oswald, this is your chance to fulfill a destiny that your parents carelessly discarded ...
Reclaim my birthright, y'mean?
Imagine: You'll have the ear of the media. Access to captains of industry. Unlimited poon tang ...
He didn't even lose a limb, an eyeball ... bladder control ..
Point is, listen to them. They've lost faith in old symbols. They're ready to bond with you, the icon of the future. If it works, don't fix it...
Max! Relax! Josh and Jen'll put a spin on this. We'll talk it over tonight, at your costume par
I think you'd feel out of place at my party. You see, it's for winners.
You're coming with me, you Great White Dope! To die, way down in the sewer!
Not Chip! Please! Penguin ... If you have one iota of human feeling, you'll take me instead.
I don't. So, no.
I'm the one you want! Penguin, please! Ask yourself: Isn't it Max Shreck who manipulated and betrayed you? Isn't it Max, not Chip, whom you want to see immersed up to his eyeballs in raw sewage?
Okay, you have a point. Plus, the hysterics are getting on my nerves.
Ten, nine...
The Christmas Eve of Destruction  !
... eight, seven...
Silent night, violent night...
All is shrill, all is blight...
Well, um... funny thing, your penguins... they're not responding to the launch command. Fact they're kind of turned around now... Like someone jammed our signal...
But who could've ... no, don't say it.
My lips are sealed.
Son!
Dad! Save yourself!
I ... it was terrible, I leaned over, and accidentally knocked her, out 
She jumped. She'd been depressed.
Yes. <u>Yes</u>. Boyfriend trouble ..?
PMS.
You buy this "blurry" business?
Women... nothing surprises me, Chip. Excepting your late mother... Who even knew Selina had a brain to damage? Bottom line: she tries to blackmail us, we drop her out a higher window. Meanwhile I got badder fish to fry. Yeah  Oswald, please.
I'll warm ya! I got hot mitts !
Down, Oswald. We have to talk. You see we've got something in common.
Appetite for destruction? Contempt for the czars of fashion? Wait don't tell me ... Naked sexual charisma?
Batman. The thorn in both our sides, the fly in our ointment.
Huh? You're implying I'm some kinda psycho criminal?
Are you perchance a registered voter? I'm also a mayoral prospect.
I have but one pet cause, today: Ban The Bat.
Oh, him again. He's already history  check it out.
We're gonna disassemble his spiffy old Batmobile, then reassemble it as an Hbomb on wheels. Capiche? Yesterday's victor is tomorrow's vapor.
He'd have more power as a martyr. No, to destroy Batman we must first turn him into what he hates most. Meaning, us.
Y'mean frame him?
You're quick. Mayor Cobblepot.
Thanks. Jeez. Not used to this manwoman, catmouse business. Generally the babes flock to me, I tell 'em take a number.
You're off the hook, Ozzie. But Batman is decidedly <u>not</u>.
He napalmed my arm. He knocked me off a building just when I was starting to feel good about myself. I want to play an integral part in his degradation.
Well, a plan <u>is</u> forming ... A vicious one, involving the loss of innocent life ...
I want in. The thought of busting Batman makes me feel all ... dirty. Maybe I'll give myself a bath right here ...
Let's consummate our fiendish union!
I wouldn't touch you to scratch you.
I oughta have you spayed! You sent out all the signals!
Did I? Only 'cause my mom trained me to, with a man... any man, all men  Corn dog!
Me, domesticated? By you? I doubt it! You repulsive... awful... <u>penguin</u>.
The name is Oswald Cobblepot.
I don't know what you want, but I know I can get it for you with a minimum of fuss. Money, jewels, a very big ball of string...
Your blood, Max.
My blood? I ... I gave at the office.
A halfpint. I'm talking gallons.
Let's make a deal. <u>Other</u> than my blood, what can I off
Sorry, Max. A die for a die.
Either you've caught a cold, or you're planning to kill me.
Selina! Selina Kyle!? You're fired! And Bruce  Bruce Wayne! Why are you dressed up as Batman?
He <u>is</u> Batman, you moron.
Was.
You killed me, Batman killed me, Penguin killed me. Three lives down. Got enough bullets to finish me off?
One way to find out?
Hmm. Primitive ventilation.
Damn those Carny bolsheviks the other night, throwing bricks at my windows 
No. No glass on the inside.
Weird, huh?
I'd offer you coffee, but my assistant is using her vacation time.
Good time, too. Everyone but the bandits seem to be slacking off till after New Years'.
If my life has had any meaning, that's the meaning.
Max, I'm gonna fight you on this. The Mayor and I have already spoken and we see eye to eye here. So 
Mayors come and go. And heirs tire easily. Really think a flyweight like you could last fifteen rounds with Muhammed Shreck.
I'm not scared of you, Max.
Not compared to that "Cobblepot" person you're promoting...
Scared of Oswald, are you? Why, if his parents hadn't eighty sixed him you two might've been roomies, at prep school!
"Oswald" is linked to the Red Triangle Gang. I can't prove it but we both know it's true.
Wayne, I'll not stand for mud slinging in this office. If my assistant were here, she'd already have escorted you out, to 
What happened?
Yes, did  did you injure yourself on that ski slope? Is that why you cut short your vacation and came back?
Ingenious costume. Let me guess ... Trustfund goodygoody?
Course you're feeling fine ... You almost made a monster the Mayor of Gotham City.
I am the light of this city. <u>And</u> I am its mean, twisted soul. Does it really matter who's the "mayor"?
It does to me.
Yawn.
We've met.
Have we?
Sorry. I mistook me for somebody else.
You mean mistook <u>me</u>?
Didn't I say that?
Yes and no ...
You don't seem like the type who does business with Mr. Shreck.
No. And you don't seem like the type who takes orders from him.
Well that's a ... long story ...
Well, I could ... free up some time...
I'm listed.
I'm tempted.
Pouring myself into my work.
I, ah ... didn't catch your last name.
Oh. "Kyle."
Selina. Hi. Didn't mean to 
Scare me? No, actually, I was just scaring myself ...
I don't see how ... Anyway, it's a treat to find you out in the world, away from Ebeneezer Shreck.
Treat to be here.
The news these days ... weird. People looking to superheroes for their peace of mind, and blaming their problems on supervillains ... instead of themselves, or their spouses at least.
And it's not even accurate ... I mean, "Batman Blows It"? The guy probably prevented <u>millions</u> in property damage.
I heard on TV, "Catwoman is thought to weigh 140 pounds." How do these hacks <u>sleep</u> at night?
You're not coming to that, are you? "The Relighting of the Tree" thing?
I wouldn't be caught dead. No, it's probably how I would be caught. The Mayor stupidly took Cobblepot's bait 
 and it's gonna be a hot time in the cold town tonight.
You almost sound enthusiastic.
I detest violence, but ... Christmas complacency can be a downer, too.
You've got a dark side, Selina Kyle.
No darker than yours, Bruce.
Well, I'm... braver at night, if that's what you mean...
Yeah? Me too...
... Maybe I'll watch it on TV.
"We"? You and...
... and me. No, that's be me and me. Is that what I said?
Yes and no...
I'm sure he's wonderful company and all, but ... doesn't the gold plated bachelor bit get a little ... stale?
Somewhat like the lonesome secretary syndrome, I'd suppose.
Executive Assistant. Secretary. Girlfriend?
Had one. Didn't work.
What went wrong? Hang on, I think I know ... You kept things from her.
Nope, I told her everything.
And the truth frightened her?
Well ... How can I put this. There were two truths ... and she had trouble reconciling them. Because <u>I</u> had trouble reconciling them. Vicki said.
"Vicki." Iceskater, or stewardess?
Photojournalist.
Sure.
Well? Was "Vicki" right? About your difficulty with duality?
If I said yes, then you might think me a Norman Bates, or a Ted Bundy type ... and then you might not let me kiss you.
It's the socalled "normal" guys who always let you down. Sickos never scare me. At least they're commited.
Ah ... then you've come to the right lonely mansion.
I, ah ... never fool around on the first date.
Nor I, on the second.
What're you doing three dates from now?
Sorry about yesterday ... Some big deal came together, no, fell through, and 
'S'okay, I had to go home, feed my cat.
No hard feelings?
There's a big, comfy California King over in Bedding. What say we ...
Y'mean take off our costumes?
Guess I'm sick of wearing masks ...
Same here. So why'd you come tonight?
You first.
Now don't give me a killingMax won'tsolveanything speech, because it will. Aren't you tired of this sanctimonious robber baron always coming out on top? When he should be six feet under?
Jesus, Selina, you're not the judge <u>or</u> the jury... I mean, just who do you think you <u>are</u>?
I don't know anymore, Bruce ...
A kiss under the mistletoe. Mistletoe can be deadly, if you eat it ...
But a kiss can be even deadlier, if you mean ... it.
... What do we do?
I don't know. Till we figure it out, let's ... let's keep dancing.
Admiring your handiwork?
Touring the riot scene. Gravely assessing the devastation. Upstanding mayor stuff.
You're not the Mayor.
Things change. Hey, good to meet you. We'll be working hand in glove in Gotham's glorious future.
Once you were their freak, now these clowns do your bidding. Must feel pretty good.
Better than you know, Batboy.
What're you really after?
Ah, the direct approach. I admire that in a man with a mask. But you don't really think you'll ever win, playing it your way ..?
Things change.
I think you're jealous that I'm a genuine freak, and you have to wear a mask!
Maybe you're right.
Where's the fire?
"Shreck's." You 
How could you? I'm a woman...
I'm  sorry, I 
As I was saying: I'm a woman, and can't be taken for granted. Are you listening, you Batman you?
Hanging on every word.
Good joke. Wanna hear another one?
A "heman"? Sure. They shine that beacon in the sky, then wonder what hole I crawl out of.
Wow, a real response and you're not even trying to get into my tights. But explain me ... If you're so down on "them" out there, why bust your batbuns to protect 'em?
I just can't sleep at night. Exploding department stores keep me up. One ...
I can't sleep either, lately. A little link, between us. But bottom line baby, you live to preserve the peace, and I'm dying to disturb it. That could put a strain on our relationship.
...four, five.
Hey stud: I thought we had something together.
We do.
A kiss under the misteltoe. Mistletoe can be deadly, if you eat it ...
But a kiss can be even deadlier, if you mean it.
You're the second man who killed me this week. But hey, no prob ... I've got seven lives left.
I tried to grab you  save you 
Seems like every woman you try to save ends up dead, or deeply resentful.
First you're gonna shut up. Then you're gonna turn yourself in.
Don't be naive. The law doesn't apply to people like him! Or us 
Wrong on both counts.
Mr. Wayne ... Something wrong?
No, nothing, ah ... His parents ... I ... I hope he finds them.
It's cold.
It's vichyssoise, sir.
Vichyssoise. Supposed to be cold, right?
I suppose you feel better now, sir.
No, actually I feel worse.
Sorry, Alfred, I have to get to the Plaza. You heard Penguin, he was practically begging me to show.
Which is why I hoped you'd snub him.
'Fraid I can't. There's been a kidnapping ... Tell Selina ... Ms. Kyle ... that some business came up  no, tell her some major deal fell through, she'll feel sorry ... No, no, here's what to do, just tell her ... let her know that I ... not in a dumb "Be my girlfriend way," but 
I will relay the message.
Alright, thanks.
Selina ... more facets than Vicki, huh? Funny, but sort of mysterious...
"Affair" ... yes, maybe ... if she ...
I think I'll take the stairs.
Mr. Wayne ... a reminder: Tonight is that loathsome party, hosted by that odious Mr. Shreck. May we RSVP in the resoundingly negative?
I'm tempted, but ... well ... it is an occasion for celebration, and ... umm ... Selina will probably be there ...
Ah. "Who", may I ask, are you going "as"?
You'll never guess.
I guess this mean we won.
Yes, I suppose that we did.
Well ... Come what may... Merry Christmas, Mr. Wayne.
Right. Sure. And "Peace on earth, good will toward men."
YO! Jean, this is Ramellzee.
Yo... You know why Rammellzee's here, don't you?
Uhoh!
I'm here for an interrogation. You've been called a graffiti artist and I wanna know why. All I see are scribble scrabble abstractions!
Man, I was up on him years ago on the IRT.
You're selling and ending the culture. Not one bit of information. Only to get the money and growl with the power, man.
That's ignorant.
OK! Goodbye!
Pipe down, Lech. Let him order.
You nuts? Let him order? You on his side? You're not such a good waitress. You get out, too.
I just don't think you're being fair.
I need this?
I need this?
Jean, could you get me a Phillips screwdriver?
A what?
A Phillips head. From the toolbox.
Yeah.
'Phillips head,' right?
Yeah.
You don't have any!!!
That's impossible. I've got, like, five of 'em!
Jean? Hold this, please. You'll get there. But it's good to have something to fall back on. That's why I became an electrician. It pays the rent. Y'know, I'm an artist, too.
I didn't know.
I sculpt. I'm really just starting to find myself. How old are you? Twenty? You're just like I used to be. I'm fortyone. And I'm glad I haven't gotten any recognition. It gave me time to develop.
You heard of Albert Milo. I made that niggah. I'm Rene Ricard. Didn't you read "Not About Albert Milo?" I know who to hype. Baby, I'm gonna make you a star.
Can you put me in the ring with him?
I can put you in the ring with him. Even book the dates. But those big boys know how to fight. They could make you look real sissy. I was looking at that painting upstairs. It's the first time a picture made me embarrassed to own anything. So what's your real name? 'Samo?'
Jean Michel Basquiat.
Uh huhh... Band practice? It's Benny. He wants to know why you're not at band practice...?
Fuck... I forgot about that.
Fuck band practice... If you're gonna be a painter you're gonna have to break a few hearts you don't wanna be like Tony Bennett..
Tony Bennett... What do you mean?
Singing on stage and painting in your spare time.
I didn't know Tony Bennett painted.
My point exactly.
So keep painting.
Yes, Boss. If you're so smart, why are you here with me in this basement?
You're news. I want the scoop. I write it down. When I speak, no one believes me. But when I write it down, people know it's true. There's never been a black painter in art history that's been considered really important, you know?
So what?
So shut up and keep painting..
What time is it?
5:11.
That one's for you.
Thanks... I'll take it tonight.
I can't. After the show.
You fucking little whore! You sold my painting! I'm gonna tell you something, brother when you're climbing up the ladder of success, don't kick out the rungs! Believe that shit.
I'll make you another one.
Forget it.
Hey, Rene.
Thanks again for not inviting me. I'm only here on business.
That's a beautiful name. French?
Haitian. I'm going to kill myself. I'm taking pills. Reds, blues, greens.
What? Wait a minute... talk to me.
Life doesn't... make... sense. This city's kkilling me. I want my liquid hijack Marlboros!
What? Life's beautiful. Depression isn't permanent. Don't you believe that? What is it did your girlfriend leave you?
No! I have a boyfriend. He loves me.
You see? You have someone to live for.
No, I don't. I'm alone. We all are. Especially here. The world's unjust. The respect fools get. The disrespect I get.
What is it you want? Respect? I have respect for you, just for making this call. One philosopher said "Sadness is a sin against the richness of the world." Think about it. Feel it.
You don't even know me. I want real respect.
What? What do you want?
Fame. My liquid hijack Marlboros and the moon and the cow that jumped over it.
How can I ever thank you?
I'd like to squeeze your titties.
Come on.
Wanna Mac?
No, I'd like the scarf.
Have a Mac.
I don't eat junk food.
Oh. I didn't know. I'll take you to the best restaurant in town. You'll miss a great meal and I'll keep the scarf, anyway. What's your name?
You're a fast mover.
No name? That's ok. I'll just call you Big Pink.
Hi.
Hi.
I've seen you before. I like your paintings a lot. Your hair was different.
You like your dad's paintings?
Some of them.
Stand still.
See you later.
Thanks
I really... admire you.
Me? Why?
You did it! You made it. I'm a painter, too.
That's great.
Would you check out my studio some time?
Sure. I'd be glad to.
What's your name, man?
They call me Steve, but I prefer Shenge.
Nice to meet you, Shenge. Want a job?
I'll take three big Macs, two chocolate shakes, two orders of fries, and an apple pie.
You want three Big Macs, two chocolate shakes, two orders of fries, and an apple pie.
Forget it .I'll take six, no, seven chocolate shakes, an order of fries, a Big Mac, and two apple pies.
You only want one Big Mac?
Is that the best quality you have?
Yeah, it's the best one.
I'll take the whole tin.
It's three thousand dollars!
I'll take it. Andy, gimme three thousand dollars. Just the caviar I'll get the rest.
No, don't tell me you just got fired by your crazy boss.
I guess you did.
Guess I just got sick of him.
Can I walk you home?
I think I could do that alone.
Have you been camping? You could use a scrub.
I'm clean. Smell me. I always smell good. I don't know why, I just do!
You do! You definitely do.
Just come to the Mudd Club on Friday.
I don't go there. Too many party girls.
Party girls? Can I call you?
Yeah, if you have any dimes left. 477 0496.
I thought you hated this place?
I do. I just said that. I was never here before. I actually like it.
Wanna go get some breakfast?
A friend of mine offered me a job doing a little work installing a show in a gallery. He's an electrician. I was supposed to be there an hour ago.
Basquiat, those are my best clothes!!! What are you doing?
C'mon, baby, I painted them for you. They're beautiful now.
I'm going to my parents this weekend. What am I going to wear? How could you do that to me?
... I'll buy you some new ones.
You don't have any fucking money..
Do you know what he's saying?
What who's saying?
Manzanita.... ... if one day I die, and you read this piece of paper, I want you to know how much I love you. Although I'll never see you again, Gypsy, Gypsy, your hair, your hair, your face, your face'
... What's the matter?
Oh, God, Basquiat, you scared the shit out of me. How the fuck could you do that to yourself?
You're back.
It's Monday morning.
It's not Sunday? I missed you. You shouldn't leave me alone.
You're blaming me? I had to go see my family.
I'm your family.
Basquiat, what did you take?
Basquiat, don't lie. This is smack.
You want some?
You look fucking beautiful, beautiful.
Well thanks!
Which island of Hawaii do you want our house to be on? Maui? Kaui? Molokai?
I hadn't thought about it.
Oahu, Lanai, Niihau, Kahoolawee 
Staten Island would be ok.
It looks done.
Think so?
... babies.
You mean babies with you?
What's wrong with me?
You're your own baby.
Hi.
Hi.
What's that?
A present I picked up for you.
So are you really friends with Andy? He seems like such a weirdo.
He's not. He's out of town and he calls me every day. What's weird about him?
Don't you think he's using you?
Why does everybody say that? He's the only person I know who doesn't need to use me.
So. Are you ready? I start Columbia next fall. Of course, there's like, a year of premed stuff, but whatever. I'm really excited. And: Rene gave me a job as his secretary. His poems are getting published.
How is he?
Pretty much the same.
Wow. Congratulations. I hate that asshole. Thanks for coming. I guess I just wanted to find out how you're 
What's that about?
Forget it.
That is amazing. What year is it?
George?
Baby, I think about you a lot. I'm really sorry about everything. You have to believe me. I'm serious. I wish, y'know, that we were 
I don't believe it, Jean they're picking straws.
You don't have to be sorry. There's no one to blame. Jean, you're a real artist. I thought I was one. You made me realize I wasn't.
What's his name?
Hey Willie Mays.
Willie Mays.
Who's that?
The Devil, man. Rene Ricard. Art critic writes for Artforum. People read him. Tell him who you are..
Who am I?
SAMO.
Oh yeah..
"She loves me. Oh yeah she loves me! She loooooooves me, Oh yeah she loves me!" Bring me some chicken, baby!
Would you shut the fuck up? You hear what I'm doing?
Yeah man. I'm jealous. You're always great, Benny. "Her name is GINA Gina And she looooves me." I did say chicken!
I knew I left these somewhere. One of these'll send your kids to college someday. Here I made this for you.
Thanks. Your dad called again something about a job.
You got a date already?
We're getting married. She said she could tell I was a great artist she could see it in my eyes. She said she wanted to be by my side and have interracial babies with me.
Come on, Jean. Get rid of your cigarette. Concentrate.
I am... On Gina. Fuck I didn't think we were actually gonna do this.
Concentrate on the ball. Shoot.
You're shattering all my myths.
About what?
Your people.
Oh you mean black people!
Whatever. Famous. To where you can do your stuff all day without thinking about anything else.
Ummm... Four years. Six to get rich.
Famous people are usually pretty stupid. You're too smart. You'd get bored to death. You don't wanna be like John Henry fighting the machine. Just do what you do. It's about integrity. Follow your heart.
Who's John Henry?
Oh man! Folklore guy worked on the railroad. Y'know, pounding in spikes and laying down track. Then one day they invented a machine to do it. And he says "Fuck that, I'm a MAN" and he challenges the machine to a race to lay down a mile of track. It takes two days. Neck and neck the whole time. They get right to the end, and he beats it by one spike. Got a cigarette?
So then what?
He drops dead! See? Just do your shit like you do it! Your friends like you, you get laid, everyone walks by, sees your stuff everywhere. It's good. What else do you want?
What're you doing? You're doing something.
He's the best painter in the world. I'm gonna give him one of these.
Don't give him anything, man. Your art's worth a lot. Trade. That's what real artists do with each other. Besides, he'll just use you. He's famous for that.
Check you later, man.
Hi Gina.
Willie Mays!!! Willie Mays!!!
Come on in!
We got beat.
For real?
You gonna carry that around all night?
Yeah... I'll paint on it.
What's the rush, John Henry?
I ain't John Henry.
Good.
What's your fuckin' problem, anyway?
I don't really have any problems.
Good. What do you have?
What's your fuckin' problem? You get a girlfriend and a little attention and then start acting all uppity with me.
'Uppity?' Like as in 'uppity nigger?'
That's not how I meant it. For all you know, you might just be a flash in the pan! You can never tell.
Hey fuck you! I deserve this shit. You're just jealous 'cause it ain't happening to you!
She's good.
I guess it was a long time ago.
Come on, let's get out of here.
Sit down! You're gonna fall out!
Me fall? Let's get some drugs!
Drugs??!
Medicine, man! Like health food. I'm taking care of my health!
Paint it out.
Out?
Yeah... Maybe just his arms. Put some Cerulean Blue there.
It's Andy again.
Still not here.
 In this corner?
Yeah..
You want me to put it here?
Use your fucking instinct.
It's Maria Portos. What should we do?
Why don't you try letting her in, Steve I mean Shenge.
Get up. She won't buy anything if she sees me working on it!
Wanna bet? If you show too much respect for people with money, they don't have respect for you.
Blue? Where?
What's wrong with you today?
Would you like to see the wine list?
Chateau Latour '64, please.
I'm sorry, Mr. Basquiat.
See that table over there? I'd like to pay their bill.
Yeah, just put their bill on my tab.
Really?
Yeah.
Very well.
What is it that gets you out of bed in the morning?
I hate this. Turn that off.
... Can you... decipher this for us?
Decipher?
Yes. What do they... stand for?
They're just words.
Yes, I understand but where do you take them from?
Where? Do you ask Miles where he got that note from? Where do you take your words from? Everywhere.
What are they?
Leeches. A long list of leeches. It looks good like that.
Hmmm. And 'Parasites.' You seem to be a Primal Expressionist.
You mean like an ape?
A primate?
Well, you said that. You've got a lot of references from Leonardo da Vinci, don't you?
Oh, that's a "Leonardo's Greatest Hits" painting. You like it?
Yes, but as a black painter 
I use a lot of colors not only black.
What?
I'm not black.
You're not?
Not what?
Not black.
No, I'm HaitianPuerto Rican.
Yes, yes... Let's talk about that.... your roots... Your father is from Haiti, isn't he?
Yup.
Hmmmm. Interesting. And when you grew up were there any primitives hanging in your home?
We don't hang them at home, y'know just in the streets..
I see.. And... How do you respond to being called hmmm... yes, "the pickaninny of the art world."
Who said that?
Why, that's from Time Magazine.
No, he said I was the Eddie Murphy of the art world. He said the Eddie Murphy.
Is it true that your mother resides in a mental institution?
Or rather, do you think you're being exploited or are you yourself exploiting the white image of the black artist from the ghetto?
Are those the only two possibilities? You wanna French fry?
OK. One last thing. Is there any anger in you? Any anger in your work?
Should there be?
Tell me about it. What are you angry about?
I hear your show was sold out already. There's a very important collector who's interested in some of your works.
Bring him over sometime. I have some other stuff to show him.
Jean Michel... Crawling from the wreckage?
I need a dealer.
You have a bunch of them, don't you? Albert Milo walks in from another room.
Bruno spoke to me already. We could talk about it.
I'm here.
OK. I'll be at your studio Thursday three o'clock.
It doesn't matter how much you worked on them. It matters how much you can get for them.
I can get ten.
You shouldn't have put it in the show. This is the one I absolutely have to have. I really love it.
Sure, ok..
Do you think I could borrow your limousine? I'll get it back to you in an hour.
It's OK. Just have him bring you to dinner at Mr. Chow's later. We'll be there.
B.B. It's me Jean! What's the matter? No snow in Switzerland this year?
I didn't see you.
What do you mean?
You haven't heard? Andy's dead.
Chill, man! Be cool! This isn't even my apartment!
Oh man, you a FINE nigga! You know that?
Cut it out, man! And don't be callin' me that shit!
Who did this? Who did this?
I don't know. I told you, this isn't my apartment.
Naaaa. Poor thing has a little dick.
How do you know?
Just look at him. Little silver thingies on his cowboy boots? Honey, I don't think so.
MOTHAFUCKAH!
That's the same guy who did this painting.
I know that. Don't let him get away.
No.
You haven't been by lately.
I'd love to see some more of your work... Where's your studio?
You name it, I paint there.
Well, I don't want to get mugged on a Bowery street corner. Maybe I could find a place for you to work. Take my card.
You want a drink?
When?
How about right now?
Tom and Cynthia Kruger.
I know.
Jean, your parents are here.
Hi Dad. Hi Nora.
It's great that people are interested, but if anyone's going to buy anything, I'll handle it for you. Everything goes through the gallery, even if they come to your studio.
Sure.
Who is it?
Annina Nosei.
Who?
Is Jean Michel here?
No.
These are great.
Aren't they?
How much for these five?
You should talk to him about this.
I'm interested in showing Jean's work.
I really think you should talk to him about this.
You wanna buy some ignorant art? Ten bucks.
Ignorant art?
Yeah... Like stupid, ridiculous, crummy art.
Ohhh. That's new. That sounds good.
Ten bucks apiece.
I can give you five. You didn't do very much to these.
You don't even work on your stuff!
Andy, man, thanks for coming. I'd like to paint your jacket.
My jacket? Gee, great... Your show looks great. Quite a turnout. You look great. You kids. You drink red wine with fish. You can do anything! Make paintings in the basement of your gallery? First time I've heard of that!
Jean Michel, this is Mary Boone. She's got the great new gallery.
Yeah, I met her already.
I wish they'd quit writing this shit about me.
That's good. At least they're interested.
Everybody's paying top dollar for scraps of paper, refrigerator doors anything with a SAMO tag on it. The other day, I just wanted a pack of cigarettes, so I did a drawing and sold it for two bucks. A week later this gallery calls me up: "Somebody's offering us the drawing. Should we buy it for five thousand?"
Wow... Stop giving them away. I got an invitation to model for Comme de Garcons... You wanna do it with me?
Yeah I'd do that... You could teach me.
Gee. I don't need to. You're a natural. You should sign up with my modeling agent.
Cool.
My dog, Archie... I woke up with flea bites... Creepy. I ran out and bought flea collars. They work really well.
Let's leave this town and go someplace. Some island.
Let's go to the Carnegie Museum. They have the world's most famous sculptures all in these giant plaster replicas. It's really great. It's in Pittsburg.
Ouch..
What's wrong?
That girl looks just like my old girlfriend Gina.
Do you still love her?
Yeah. I really blew it. I still think about her.
Well, have you asked her to come back?
What's with the wigs?
I'm going to send them to my friends for Christmas presents.
You think those are good presents? Who wants an old wig?
Piss painting?
I wanted to make a few more of these. Frank's been drinking this Mexican beer. It makes a good green.
How come you're not peeing on them yourself?
I don't like beer.
That was my favorite part!
We can do better. It needed more white.
I don't even have any friends anymore besides you. And everyone says "Warhol? That deathwarmed over person on drugs? He's just using you."
Gee. You shouldn't take it so seriously, Jean. That's why you can't stop taking drugs. You always think people don't like you. Everyone likes you.
People are only interested in you because you're famous, not because they know a fuckin' thing about your work.
Bruno called. In Europe, people are saying you're gonna die from drugs. They think they can cash in on your death.
When I was poor, everybody doubted I could make it. When I got rich, everyone said, `yeah, but he'll never keep it up.' Now everyone says `he's killing himself.' So I clean up, and then they say `Look. His art's dead.' I don't take drugs, anyway. I'm healthy now.
After the show we should take a nice long vacation. Maybe go to Hawaii. That's what I'm gonna do. I'm going to give up painting and start playing music again. I wanna sing.
That would be a pity because you're a real painter.
Nixon lives in Saddle River, New York.
Saddle River's in New Jersey.
Saddle River, New York!
It's in New Jersey.
New York.
I think it's in New Jersey.
It's in New York.
Oh, I didn't know that.
My name is Jean Michel Basquiat. Have you heard of me?
No. Should I have?
I'm a painter, too.
Really. Huh. Too bad.
Hey it's the big A.M..
Rene's been telling me about your work.
Is this finished yet?
I don't know.
When's your show?
Not sure. How was yours?
I haven't decided yet. Rene, you wanna come over to the studio tomorrow. I wanna make a painting of you.
What do you think?
I like the one with the dragon's heads a lot. But the black one's filled up with too many heads... I'd take some of them out. I think you're painting too fast. I wouldn't put in so many heads. Let it breathe a bit.
It's always how you would do it. This is my version.
You're right. It's your version. You should come over to the studio sometime.
Why, so you could humiliate me?
No, I wanted to make a painting of you.
Naa..
Let's get out of here.
See ya in an hour. So what do you think?
This is painted on a backdrop from the Kabuki theater in Japan. I painted it after Joseph Beuys died. A rebirth painting. I felt like he could've painted it, or maybe someone else was painting it instead of me. The Chinese calligraphers used to change their name midcareer so they could start over as someone else..
Do you ever get sick of it?
Of what?
The whole thing painting.
No. It's one of the few times I feel good. I used to have to go to work and cook every day. That I got sick of.
What about the shit they write?
You're asking me this because of the 'lapdog' remark. I read that. The person that wrote that has the compassion of a housefly. That's your enemy, not your audience. Your audience hasn't even been born yet. It's a lie that art is popular. The only thing popular about it is that it's written about in newspapers. I'm surprised when anybody comes to my openings. There're about ten people on the planet who know anything about painting, and Andy's one of them.
I haven't felt like talking to him since that thing came out.
As long as I've known Andy, he's never asked me for anything except to speak to you about getting off drugs. He's painted my picture, we've eaten dinner in God knows how many places together. But he doesn't care about me. He cares about you. You're the only person he cares about. He's your friend. Fuck that article. You want a toasted bagel with cream cheese?
We're sorry to disturb you, we'd like to ask you some 
Are you vice?
Why do you think he's dead?
You wouldn't be here otherwise, would you?
Who are you?
I'm Roxy. I'm her  friend.
How old was she when this happened?
Fourteen. We seal juvenile records until they're deceased. That's why you didn't find it in your computer.
Anderson. Jack W. Donald M. I'm sorry. No Lisa.
Did you check all four years?
Yes I did.
Can you check again?
No Lisa Anderson, detective.
Can there be some mistake?
Only if you're making it.
He died  about five or six years ago.
He was shot.
She's a suspect.
On what basis?
Catherine Tramell. Age 30. No priors, no convictions. Double major, magnum cum laude, Berkeley, 1980. Literature and Psychology. Daughter, sole survivor  Marvin and Elaine Tramell, killed in a boating accident, 1978, Catherine Tramell sole heir. Estimated assets $110 million.
She's got enough money to burn this whole department down.
She was the last person seen with the guy  I'll take the responsibility.
It's yours.
We know you're not stupid, Ms. Tramell.
Maybe that's what you're counting on to get you off the hook.
He left the club with his girlfriend about midnight. That's the last time anybody saw him.
What was it?
Keep your three o'clock.
Do you want me to work the case, Phil, or do you want me to 
I said keep it.
Are you kidding me?
Formerly engaged to Roberto Vasquez, deceased 
I love it. She's got a hundred million bucks. She fucks fighters and rock and roll stars. And she's got a degree in screwing with peoples' heads.
You forgot her degree in literature. She's a writer. She published a novel last year under a pen name. Do you want to know what it's about?
So what do we do  nothing?
We bring her in for questioning.
What is all this "Nick" stuff  Nick would you like a cigarette. Nick can you give me a ride.
She didn't ask me for the ride. She asked anybody.
And you volunteered.
You sure?
I'm sure.
Now what?
What now what? Now nothing. She passed the polygraph. That's it.
She knew she could beat it. That's why she asked to take it.
How the fuck do you know? What is it with you and this broad anyway?
Come on, Phil. You're not gonna let this slide. What about her parents? What about what else she's published? At least we should get the stuff to see if we find anything else that's an amazing reallife coincidence.
Her parents died in an accident. I don't care what else she's written. What are you  a book critic?
How did they die? Was there an investigation?
How you're saying she killed her parents? Did she kill Bobby Vasquez, too?
Fuck you, Phil.
Fuck you, too Nick.
Gus  go over to Berkeley. Harrigan  find out what else she's published. Andrews  get the files on her parents' accident. Carbon Beth on everything. I want some psychological input on this Andrews and Harrigan go; Nick is left there with Gus.
What about me?
I'll ask you once, Nick  for the record did you kill him?
No.
I.A.'s going to talk to you more about Nilsen. They're handling the investigation, we're not. Stay in touch with Dr. Gardner, it'll help on the evaluation.
She killed him.
Beth? Now you've got Beth killing people?
Catherine Tramell. It's part of her game.
First you've got her buying your file. Now you've got her killing Nilsen. Forget her, willya? Go someplace. Sit in the sun. Get away from this goddamn fog. Get her out of your system.
You don't but it, do you? She knew nobody would but it. She knew I'd say she did it. And she knew nobody would buy it.
Tell me again. I want to hear you say it again.
It was an accident.
You're driving around North Beach for no particular reason and this car won't get out of the way 
I don't think she meant to go off the hill, do you?
Don't fuck with me, Nick. I don't need a reason to put your ass in a sling.
You knew her, didn't you?
Gus and I talked to her at Tramell's house. All we did was write her name down.
I told you to stay away from Tramell.
Yeah. But you didn't tell me to stay away from her car.
Homicide.
What do you want?
When was the last time you saw John Boz?
Is he dead?
Were you with him last night?
You're looking for Catherine, not me.
What was the motive?
She said she didn't know herself, just sort of did it on impulse. The razor just happened to be there.
Maybe the maid did it.
She's 54 years old and weighs 240 pounds.
Not unless she got up in the ring and turned into one mean sonofabitch.
Maybe she did, Gus. Maybe she grew herself an Afro and learned a left hook and put shoe polish on her face. Let's polygraph her again and ask her about it.
Maybe it's for oldtime's sake.
Sometimes I think he started banging her just to get himself off the hook with Internal Affairs.
He ain't that way. He's got heart.
Yeah. I know.
You look like dogshit.
He looks a little shrunk, that's all.
You're already gettin' psychological input, son.
Go stick your head in a tub of ice water. See where she leads.
Who was this fuckin' guy?
Rock and roll, Gus. Johnny Boz.
I never heard of him.
Before your time, pop. Midsixties. Five or six hits. He's got a club down in the Fillmore now.
Not now he don't.
Talcott doesn't usually show up at the office 'till after his 18 holes. What are they nervous about?
They're executives. They're nervous about everything.
Ain't that cute? They got his and her Pigassos, son.
I didn't know you knew who Picasso was, Gus.
I'm a smart sonofabitch. I just hide it.
How'd it go, son?
She misses me.
Hallelujah.
What you doin', son?
It's my first drink in three months. That okay with you, pop? She doesn't know me. I never saw her before Gus and I talked to her.
Ain't you go nothin' better to do than to come in here and jack off the damn machine?
What are you doing here, Pop?
I came in here to jack off the damn machine. One dead psychology professor. Noah Goldstein. Dr. Noah Goldstein. And guess what? He was her counselor.
Was she ever suspect?
No, sir. They never even got a statement from her.
Do you remember a case  1956  Hazel Dobkins?
Hell yes! Couldn't get it outta my head for years. Still can't. Nice little kids  nice husband, wasn't porkin' around  no financial problems. One day  outta the clear blue sky  she does 'em. All of 'em. Used a knife. He got for a wedding present. Didn't even deny it. Sweet as honey. Said she didn't know why she done it.
What's goin' down, son?
Nothin' I'll be okay, pop.
No, sir. You won't. There's smoke off yonder on the horizon. They're gonna want your badge.
I got tired of being played with.
You sure got real conclusive ways of demonstrating that.
She knows where I live and breathe. She's coming after me.
What is it you got between you?
I don't know.
Somethin', though.
You think I 
I don't son, but I got the minority opinion.
I don't think it's funny.
Well, hell, son, it's got a certain ring to it, I'll say that.
Forgive me for askin', son, and I don't mean to belabor the obvious, but why is it that you've got your head so far up your own ass?
She want to play? Fine. I can play.
Everybody that she plays with dies.
I know what that's like.
Easy there, partner  I wasn't there.
I went over last night, too.
I wasn't there last night, either.
You... fucked her! Goddamn dumb sonofabitch... You fucked her! Goddamn, you are one dumb sonofabitch 
I'm not gonna get AIDS, pop don't worry about it. I always use a rubber.
I don't give a... flyin'... chili bean... fart about AIDS!
You oughta use a rubber, pop. You really should.
What in the hell for? You think I'm gettin' any at my age? I don't like bluehaired women. I don't like 'em.
You don't like punk rockers?
Say what?
You feeling better?
I feel fine!
I'm not afraid of her.
Why the hell not?
I don't know. I'm just not.
That's her pussy talkin' He gets a real nasty look from a very fat woman eating a cheeseburger. He winks at her. The woman looks away from him, shaking her head.
It doesn't make sense. She didn't know me three months ago.
Maybe it wasn't her that paid him. Maybe the money was for somethin' else. How the fuck do I know? I'm just an old city cowboy tryin' not to fall outta his saddle.
You all right, pop? You want me to drive you?
In that little pissant car of yours? Hell, no. I ain't gettin' no back pain disability retirement  I'm gettin' me a full pension and a real goldplate Seiko watch.
Come on, I'll drive you in this thing.
You think I'd let you drive my Cadillac car? I ain't lettin' no hearuphisass person drive my Cadillac car.
Catherine says you don't like her.
She's right. You got an icepick in you yet?
You know that stuff they say about how you can judge people by their friends?
I don't believe it.
Why not?
You're my friend, Gus.
I don't understand what the hell's going on here, pop.
Ain't that hard, son. This young farmgirl, she got tired of all that attention goin' to her little brothers  she fixed 'em. Just like 'ole Hazel Dobkins fixed her whole family  except young Roxy here, she didn't use a wedding present. She used Daddy's razor.
I'm not sure anymore she did it.
Which one you talkin' about now, son? We know ole Hazel did it; we know young Roxy did it  and the other one Well, hell, she's got that magna come lawdy pussy on her that done fried up your brain.
So Nilsen had a report on her  so what. You don't know what the hell was in it?
Catherine told me what was in it.
If she's telling you the truth.
Don't you get it, Gus? If Beth killed Johnny Boz to frame Catherine  she wouldn't want anyone to know what happened at Berkeley. It gives her the motive to kill Nilsen.
How did she know Nilsen knew about it  if it happened?
He was I.A. He probably asked her about it.
She'd have to be nuttier than a twentypound Christmas fruitcake. She's not the one who hangs out with multiple murderers  your girlfriend is.
She's a writer  it's part of what she does.
Goddamn writers  all they do is use up trees and ruin people's eyes. There's gotta be somebody at Berkeley who knows what the hell happened.
I know what happened. Catherine told me what happened.
You got goddamn tweetybirds flutterin' around your head, that's what you got. You think you're gonna fuck like minks, raise rugrats, and live happily ever after? Oh, man.
Where the hell you goin'?
I'm going with you.
She said alone  suite 405. It ain't gonna take long.
He was walking home from work. They only lived a coupla blocks from the clinic. Somebody drove by and shot him.
What was the weapon?
.38 revolver. Never recovered.
Were there ever any suspects?
No suspects, no motive. Unsolved.
Was his wife ever a suspect?
I had another one of you guys down here from Frisco  about a year ago  he asked me the same question. What's this about anyway?
Routine.
Yeah, he said it was routine too. Now it's two guys saying it's routine.
Do you remember his name?
Nope, can't say that I do.
Nilsen?
That's him.
Was she ever a suspect?
Nope. There was some talk; it never panned.
What kind of talk?
The usual  a girlfriend.
He had a girlfriend?
Nope. She did. Like I say. It never panned.
Thanks.
I hope I helped you out.
You did.
How did he die?
He was murdered.
Really. Maybe that's why you're from Homicide. How?
I don't really feel like talking anymore.
Listen, lady, we can do this downtown if you 
Read me my rights and arrest me and I'll go downtown.
You have the right to an attorney.
Why would I need an attorney?
You workin' on another book?
Yes I am.
It must really be somehtin' makin' stuff up all the time.
It teaches you to lie.
How's that?
You make it up, but it has to be believable. They call it suspension of disbelief.
I like that. "Suspension of Disbelief."
The answer is no. I didn't kill him.
Do you use drugs, Ms. Tramell?
Sometimes.
What kind of drugs?
Cocaine.
In the beginning. Then I got to like what he did for me.
That's pretty cold, ain't it, lady?
I'm a writer, I use people for what I write. You write what you know. Let the world beware.
I'm John Corrigan. I'm an assistant district attorney, Ms. Tramell. Can we get you anything? Would you like some coffee?
No thank you.
There is no smoking in this building, Ms. Tramell.
What are you going to do? Charge me with smoking?
Would you tell us the nature of your relationship with Mr. Boz?
I had sex with him for about a year and a half. I liked having sex with him.
Did you ever engage in sado masochistic activity with him?
Exactly what do you have in mind, Mr. Corrigan.
Did you ever tie him up?
No.
Did you kill Mr. Boz, Ms. Tramell?
I'd have to be pretty stupid to write a book about a killing and then kill him the way I described in my book. I'd be announcing myself as the killer. I'm not stupid.
I'm De...
I know who you are.
How long were you dating him?
I wasn't dating him. I was fucking him.
How long were you having sex with him?
About a year and a half.
Were you with him last night?
Yes.
Did you leave the club with him?
Yes.
Did you go home with him?
No. We had a drink at the club. We left together. I came here. He went home.
Was there anyone with you last night?
No. I wasn't in the mood to have sex with anyone last night.
Ms. Tramell, we'd like you to come downtown and answer some questions for us.
Are you arresting me?
If that's the way you want to play it.
Do you always keep old newspapers around?
Only when they make interesting reading.
Do you have a cigarette?
I don't smoke.
Yes, you do.
I quit.
I thought you were out of cigarettes.
I found some in my purse; would you like one?
I told you  I quit.
It won't last.
What's your new book about?
A detective. He falls for the wrong woman.
Did I miss something?
I told them you wouldn't want an attorney present.
I told them you wouldn't want to hide.
I have nothing to hide.
But you said you liked men to use their hands.
No. I said I liked Johnny to use his hands. I don't give any rules, Nick. I go with the flow.
Writing a book about it gives you an alibi for not killing him.
Yes it does, doesn't it?
You like playing games, don't you?
I've got a degree in psych. It goes with the turf. Games are fun.
How did you feel when he died?
I loved him. I hurt.
How did you feel when I told you Johnny Boz had died  that day at the beach.
I felt somebody had read my book and was playing a game.
But you didn't hurt 
No.
Because you didn't love him 
That's right.
Even though you were fucking him.
You still get the pleasure. Didn't you ever fuck anybody else while you were married, Nick?
Sure.
Thanks.
I'm tired.
It's got to be tiring to beat that machine.
If I were guilty, and if I wanted to beat that machine, it wouldn't be tiring. It wouldn't be tiring at all.
Why not?
Because I'm a professional liar. I spend most of my waking hours dwelling on my lies. For my writing.
I passed.
You see? We're both innocent, Nick.
How do you know all this stuff about me?
You know all about me.
I don't know anything that isn't police business.
You know I don't like to wear any underwear, don't you, Nick?
Am I... disturbing you?
No. Come in.
Would you like a drink? I was just going to have one.
No, thanks.
I'd like to ask you a few more questions.
I'd like to ask you some, too.
You tell me.
I don't know. But you do.
It was an accident. They got in the line of fire.
Four shootings in five years. All accidents.
They were drug buys. I was a vice cop.
Tell me about Professor Goldstein.
There's a name from the past.
You want a name from the present? How about Hazel Dobkins?
Noah was my counselor in my freshman year. That's probably where I got the idea for the icepick. For my book. Funny how the subconscious works. Hazel is my friend.
She wiped out her whole family.
Yes. She's helped me understand homicidal impulse.
Didn't you study it in school?
Only in theory. You know all about homicidal impulse, don't you, shooter? Not in theory  in practice.
What happened, Nick? Did you get sucked into it? Did you like it too much?
No.
I didn't.
Yes, you did. They never tested you, did they? But Internal Affairs knew.
How exactly did you hear?
I have attorneys. They have friends. I have friends. Money buys you a lot of attorneys and friends.
I don't know about that I don't have any money I don't have any attorneys Gus is my only real friend.
I wasn't talking about real friends. Why doesn't Gus like me.
I like you.
Do you?
Yeah. Would you like to come up and have a drink?
You're not easy to figure. I'm just very good at figuring.
Don't get too cocky.
Why not?
You can make a mistake.
Not me.
Jack Daniel's okay? It's gonna have to be.
Fine.
Ice?
Please.
What did you pay Nilsen?
Isn't he the policeman that you shot, Shooter?
What if I asked you not to call me Shooter?
What if I call you Nicky?
My wife used to call me that.
I know, Nicky, but I like it.
Cheers. My friends call me Catherine.
What did Bobby Vasquez used to call you?
Bitch mostly, but he meant it affectionately. You don't have any coke, do you? I love coke and Jack Daniel's.
There's Pepsi in the fridge.
It's not the same thing, is it?
Say  "What do you want from me, Catherine?"
What do you want from me, Catherine?
Aren't you going to thank me?
What's it about?
A boy kills his parents. They have a plane. He makes it look like an accident.
Why does he do it?
To see if he can get away with it.
When did you write it?
You mean did I write it before my parents died?
Yes.
No. I wrote it years afterwards.
You're not going to stop following me around now just because you're on leave  are you?
No.
Good. I'd miss you. You can get into trouble, though. You're not really a cop anymore.
I'll risk it.
Why take the risk?
To see if I can get away with it.
How's your new book?
I'm getting deeper and deeper into my character.
I'm leaving the house around midnight. In case you're going to follow me. I'm going down to Johnny's club.
I'll meet you there.
Maybe she saw something she didn't see before.
She's seen everything before.
Did you think it was so special?
I told her it was the fuck of the century.
What did you think?
I thought it was a pretty good beginning.
How about Roxy? Is she a fuck to the century, too?
Do you want her to join us sometime?
How's your shoulder?
Fine. How's your back?
It hurts.
Are you kidding? You think this is my idea of morningafter conversation?
Do you want personal insights and adolescent secrets? I don't do those.
I thought that business with the scarf was pretty nifty.
I told you I had a vivid imagination.
You shouldn't play this game.
I don't have a choice.
You're in over your head.
I know.
I should have known. I came into the house when you were down on the beach. She looked at me so strangely. She left right after you. I shouldn't have let her watch us. She wanted to watch me all the time. She tried to kill you, didn't she?
Did you like her to watch?
Do you think I told her to kill You?
No.
Everybody that I care about dies.
It's OK. It's OK.
Make love to me.
Do you think she killed Johnny Boz?
For what... to set me up? She loved me she wouldn't frame me.
Maybe she got jealous of Johnny Boz, too.
No, she didn't... she never got jealous before... she got excited. I don't have luck with women. There was this girl I met while I was in college. I slept with her once. She started following me around, taking my picture. She dyed her hair, copied my clothes. Lisa something... Oberman. It was awful.
I thought you didn't do adolescent secrets.
I never have before.
No.
No?
No more games, Nick. I'm tired of playing games!
You won't believe me.
Try me.
I paid him $50,000 in cash for your psychiatric file.
When?
About three months before I met you.
Why?
I'd read about your shootings in the papers. I decided to write a book about a detective. I wanted to know my character.
You paid $50,000 for your character?
I would've paid more. I wanted to know everything about you. Then you came down here after Johnny got killed... it gave me a chance to get to know my character better.
What about the other night. What about last night? Was that to get to know your character?
Maybe I'm losing interest in my book.
Do you believe me?
I don't know.
I'll convince you.
What did he say?
He asked if I had an icepick in me yet.
Funny.
Can I talk to you a minute?
Honey, why don't you go in the car? I'll be right there.
You like to hang out with murderers or what? Did you know Roxy 
Of course I knew.
I just thought I'd surprise you. What's the matter?
I found Lisa Henderson.
Did you? What's she doing?
You're not going to tell me what she's doing. I thought we weren't playing games anymore.
I did, too. She told me it was backwards  she said you even styled your hair the way she did.
You still think I kill people, don't you?
No.
Liar.
How'd you get in here?
I decided to give you one more chance. I missed you.
You didn't not see me long enough to miss me.
Did you miss me?
No.
Come over here and tell me no.
I have to do some research tomorrow.
I'm very good at research. I'll help you.
No thanks.
What are you researching?
I'm writing a book.
Really. What are you writing about.
A detective. He falls for the wrong girl.
What happens to them?
They fuck like minks, raise rugrats, and live happily ever after.
It won't sell.
Why not?
Somebody has to die.
Why?
Somebody always does.
I finished my book.
How did it end?
I told you. She kills him.
What do you want, Nick? Flowers? I'll send you some flowers.
What is this  some kind of... Joke? Are we playing games again?
The games are over. You were right. It was the fuck of the century, Shooter.
What do we do now, Nick?
We fuck like minks. We raise rugrats. We live happily ever after.
I hate rugrats.
We fuck like minks. We forget the rugrats. We live happily ever after.
How are you, Nick?
I'm fine. Come on, Beth! You know I'm fine! How the hell long do I have to keep doing this?
As long as Internal Affairs wants you to, I suppose. Sit down, Nick.
It's bullshit. You know it is.
I know it is  but sit down anyway so we can get it over with, okay?
So  how are things?
Things are fine. I told you. They're fine.
How is your  personal life?
My sex life is fine. My sex life is pretty shitty actually since I stopped seeing you  maybe I should think about my Electrolux again.
How about the booze?
It's been three months.
How about the coke?
No.
No?
No! I'm working my tail off. I'm off the sauce, I'm not even smoking anymore.
How's not smoking?
It's fucked  now will you please tell I.A. that I'm just you average healthy totally fuckedup cop and let me get out of here?
Yes.
Thank you.
You okay?
Yeah.
You don't look so okay.
What are you doing here?
Babysitting. Rookie cop.
What else is new?
What was she like?
Who?
Catherine Tramell.
She said what you said she'd say.
We were in some of the same classes.
Why didn't you tell me?
I need a cigarette.
I thought you quit.
What are you talking about, Nick  what's wrong with you?
Who's got access to my goddamn file?
It's a confidential psychiatric record, it'd be illegal She backs into a wall. She looks very scared. He comes very close to her  puts an arm behind her to the wall.
Don't, Beth. Don't lie to me.
It's Internal Affairs, isn't it?
No, Nick, please 
Who?
Nilsen.
I don't owe you anything; you don't owe me anything. We went to bed  what was it?  ten or fifteen times? It wasn't memorable enough to carry any obligations.
Sometimes I really hate you.
Yeah? Well why don't you find some friendly therapist and work some of that hostility out. But take my advice. Put a little more life into it than you usually do.
You did it for me.
Yes. I care about you. I did it for you.
It's the least I could do... considering I got you into this mess with those reports.
No. I mean it, thank you.
How do you know Catherine Tramell saw my reports?
She knows stuff about me that only you know.
She must really be something. From a clinical point of view.
What was she like in school?
I hardly knew her. She gave me the creeps, though. I don't know why.
Beth. I didn't mean what I said. About 
Yes you did. I'm a big girl. I can handle it.
What is your problem? I'm trying to help you. Why won't you let me help you?
I don't need any help.
Yes you do. Something's on with you. You're sleeping with her, aren't you?
What is this interest you've got in her?
My interest is in you, not in her. She seduces people, she manipulates 
I thought you hardly know her.
I know the type. I'm a psychologist.
What do you want, Nick?
Tell me about Catherine.
She told you, didn't she?
What did she tell me, Beth?
I slept with her once in school. I was just a kid. I was experimenting. It was just that one time. She developed a... fixation... on me. She styled her hair like mine. She wore the same kind of clothes I did. It scared me.
I did dye my hair. It didn't have anything to do with her. I was a redhead for a while, too.
Did you know Noah Goldstein?
I had him in two classes.
You saw all the reports, Beth!
She's really sick you know. Don't you know what she's doing? She knows I went to Berkeley. She knows I knew Noah. She makes up that story about me. She's handing you somebody who's obsessed with he her.
She didn't hand you to me. She doesn't even know who you are. She told me about Lisa Henderson.
She knew you'd find out who Lisa Henderson is. You're a good cop  what did she do? Tell you casually and make it seem irrelevant? Did she tell you in bed, Nick? That's how I'd do it.
Why did you change your name?
I got married. He was on staff at the clinic. I was down in Salinas. It didn't... last long.
You should do something about this lock.
She's evil. She's brilliant. Be careful, Nick.
What are you doing here?
Put your hands up!
Put your fucking hands up! Don't move.
I got a message on my machine to meet Gus here. Where is he?
Don't! I know about your husband. You still like girls, Beth?
What?
We got a call from Berkeley P.D. There was a killing. A professor. Icepick. In his bed. Multiple stab wounds. 1977.
She was there, wasn't she?
Take care, you hear?
Did you find out about her parents?
You're on leave, man. You're on psycho leave. I'm talking to a possible whacko here.
You know I'm whacko, Sam, what'd you find?
The boat blew. There was a leak in the gas line. There were two previous repairs. There was a fivemil policy on both of 'em. A real heavy investigation. Zilch. Gooseegg. It was an accident.
Thanks.
I can get my butt kicked for this. You're not supposed to be in here.
It's not gonna take long, Sam.
Hey, that's Dr. Gardner, isn't it?
Bring 1976 up.
Okay. I went after him. I lost my temper.
Do you have any evidence that he showed your psychiatric file to anyone?
No.
Where were you tonight?
Home. Watching TV.
All night?
Yeah.
Were you drinking?
Yeah, I was drinking.
When did you start drinking again?
A couple days ago.
There's no smoking in this building.
What are you gonna do  charge me with smoking?
Come on  I'm going to storm into his office in front of everybody in the afternoon and then that night I'm going to kill him? I'd have to be really dumb to do that.
Going after him before gets you off the hook for killing him that's your alibi.
I want you in Dr. Gardner's office at nine o'clock. You're out of control, Curran.
Who are you guys gonna sell my file to this time?
Mr. Fink hasn't given a preference, Mr. Lipnik.
How's about it, Bart?
...Thanks Lou. Join us. Join us. Talking about the Wallace Beery picture.
Excellent picture.
We got a treatment on it yet?
No, not yet Jack. We just bought the story. Saturday Evening Post.
Okay, the hell with the story. Wallace Beery is a wrestler. I wanna know his hopes, his dreams. Naturally, he'll have to get mixed up with a bad element. And a romantic interest. You know the drill. Romantic interest, or else a young kid. An orphan. What do you think, Lou? Wally a little too old for a romantic interest? Look at me, a writer in the room and I'm askin' Lou what the goddamn story should be!
...Maybe we should do a treatment.
Ah, hell, let Bart take a crack at it. He'll get into the swing of things or I don't know writers. Let's make it a dame, Bart, keep it simple. We don't gotta tackle the world our first time out. The important thing is we all have that Barton Fink feeling, but since you're Barton Fink I'm assuming you have it in spades. Seriously Bart, I like you. We're off to a good start. Dammit, if all our writers were like you I wouldn't have to get so goddamn involved. I'd like to see something by the end of the week.
Mr. Lipnik, I 
This man creates for a living! He puts food on your table and on mine! THANK him for it! Thank him, you ungrateful sonofabitch! Thank him or YOU'RE fired!
Get down on your knees, you sonofabitch! Get down on your knees and kiss this man's feet!
Mr. Lipnik, please 
Yes, Colonel.
Hell, I could take you through it step by step, explain why your story stinks, but I won't insult your intelligence. Well all right, first of all: This is a wrestling picture; the audience wants to see action, drama, wrestling, and plenty of it. They don't wanna see a guy wrestling with his soul well, all right, a little bit, for the critics but you make it the carrot that wags the dog. Too much of it and they head for exits and I don't blame 'em. There's plenty of poetry right inside that ring, Fink. Look at "Hell Ten Feet Square".
"Blood, Sweat, and Canvas".
Look at "Blood, Sweat, and Canvas". These are big movies, Fink. About big men, in tights both physically and mentally. But especially physically. We don't put Wallace Beery in some fruity movie about suffering I thought we were together on that.
Got a couple questions to ask ya.
What do you do, Fink?
Big fuckin' deal.
You want my partner to kiss your ass?
Would that be good enough for ya?
Yeah, and I'm Buck Rogers.
His name is Mundt. Karl Mundt.
Also known as Madman Mundt.
He's a little funny in the head.
Started in Kansas City. Couple of housewives.
Couple of days ago we see the same M.O. out in Los Feliz.
Doctor. Ear, nose and throat man,.
All of which he's now missin'.
Well, some of his throat was there.
Physician, heal thyself.
Good luck with no fuckin' head.
Anyway.
Hollywood precinct finds another stiff yesterday. Not too far from here. This one's better looking than the doc.
Female caucasian, thirty years old. Nice tits. No head. You ever see Mundt with anyone meets that description?
But, you know, with the head still on.
Yeah, and he's Buck Rogers.
No reputable company would hire a guy like that.
Ya know, Fink, ordinarily we say anything you might remember could be helpful. But I'll be frank with you: That is not helpful.
Ya see how he's not writing it down?
Fink. That's a Jewish name, isn't it?
...I thought you said you were a writer.
I dunno, Duke. I kinda liked it.
Second one of your friends to end up dead.
You didn't tell us you knew the dame.
Sixth floor too high for you, Fink?
Give you nose bleeds?
Tell us where the heads are, maybe they'll go easy on you.
Only fry you once.
He teach you to do it?
You two have some sick sex thing?
Why's it so goddamn hot out here?
...Fred...
L.A.P.D.
Uhhuh.
Jesus! Ain't that a load off! You live in 605?
Yeah.
Is this multiple choice?
Nine days Tuesday 
...Yeah, he... he lives next door to me.
That's right, Fink, he lives next door to you.
What did... What did he 
Funny. As in, he likes to ventilate people with a shotgun and then cut their heads off.
Charlie... Charlie's back...
No kidding, bright boy we smelt Mundt all over this. Was he the idea man?
Sex?! He's a MAN! We WRESTLED!
You're a sick fuck, Fink.
Welcome to the Hotel Earle. May I help you, sir?
I'm checking in. Barton Fink.
FINK. Fink, Barton. That must be you, huh?
Must be.
Okay then, everything seems to be in order. Everything seems to be in order.
...Are you a tranz or a rez?
Excuse me?
Transient or resident?
I don't know... I mean, I'll be here, uh, indefinitely.
Rez. That'll be twentyfive fifty a week payable in advance. Checkout time is twelve sharp, only you can forget that on account you're a rez. If you need anything, anything at all, you dial zero on your personal inroom telephone and talk to me. My name is Chet.
Well, I'm going to be working here, mostly at night; I'm a writer. Do you have room service?
Kitchen closes at eight but I'm the night clerk. I can always ring out for sandwiches.
...Okay
Huh?
Okeydokey, go ahead.
What 
Don't you wanna go to your room?!
...Those your only bags?
The others are being sent.
...Where did we put him?
I'm at the Earle.
Never heard of it. Let's move him to the Grand, or the Wilshire, or hell, he can stay at my place.
Thanks, but I wanted a place that was less...
Less Hollywood? Sure, say it, it's not a dirty word. Sat whatever the hell you want. The writer is king here at Capitol Pictures. You don't believe me, take a look at your paycheck at the end of every week that's what we think of the writer. ...so what kind of pictures does he like?
To be honest, I don't go to the pictures much, Mr. Lipnik 
That's okay, that's okay, that's okay that's just fine. You probably just walked in here thinking that was going to be a handicap, thinking we wanted people who knew something about the medium, maybe even thinking there was all kind of technical mumbo jumbo to learn. You were dead wrong. We're only interested in one thing: Can you tell a story, Bart? Can you make us laugh, can you make us cry, can you make us wanna break out in joyous song? Is that more than one thing? Okay. The point is, I run this dump and I don't know the technical mumbojumbo. Why do I run it? I've got horsesense, goddamnit. Showmanship. And also, and I hope Lou told you this, I bigger and meaner than any other kike in this town. Did you tell him that, Lou? And I don't mean my dick's bigger than yours, it's not a sexual thing although, you're the writer, you would know more about that. Coffee?
...Yes, thank you.
Lou.
...Well Bart, which is it? Orphan? Dame?
...Both maybe?
Yeah... rye whiskey?
Boy! You writers! Work hard, play hard! That's what I hear, anyway...
...It's a tenement building. On the Lower East Side...
Great! He's poor, this wrestler! He's had to struggle!
And then... well...
...Can I be honest, Mr. Lipnik?
CAN you? You damn well better be. Jesus, if I hadn't been honest in my business dealings well, of course, you can't always be honest, not with the sharks swimming around this town but if you're a writer, you don't think about those things if I'd been totally honest, I wouldn't be within a mile of this pool unless I was cleaning it. But that's no reason for you not to be. Honest, I mean. Not cleaning the pool.
I Mr. Lipnik 
KISS THIS MAN'S FEET!!
Mr. Lipnik, I 
I apologize, Barton.
No no, Mr. Breeze has actually been a great help 
You don't have to cover for him. It's noble of you, but these things happen in business.
Mr. Lipnik, I really would feel much better if you could reconsider 
Ah, forget it, kid. I want you to pull this out of your head. If that sonofabitch wouldn't apologize to you, goddammit, I will. I respect your artistry and your methods, and if you can't fill us in yet, well hell, we should be kissing your feet for your fine efforts.
Fink.
Mr. Lipnik.
Colonel Lipnik, if you don't mind.
...I was commissioned yesterday in the Army Reserve. Henry Morgenthau arranged it. He's a dear friend.
Congratulations.
Actually it hasn't officially gone through yet. Had wardrobe whip this up. You gotta pull teeth to get anything done in this town. I can understand a little red tape in peacetime, but now it's allout warfare against the Japs. Little yellow bastards. They'd love to see me sit this one out.
Yes sir, they 
Anyway, I had Lou read your script for me.
...I gotta tell you, Fink. It won't wash.
With all due respect, sir, I think it's the best work I've done.
Don't gas me, Fink. If you're opinion mattered, then I guess I'd resign and let YOU run the the studio. It doesn't and you won't, and the lunatics are not going to run THIS particular asylum. So let's put a stop to THAT rumor right now.
Yes sir.
I had to call Beery this morning, let him know we were pushing the picture back. After all I'd told him about quality, about that Barton Fink feeling. How disappointed we were. Wally was heartbroken. The man was devastated. He was well, I didn't actually call him, Lou did. But that's a fair description, isn't it Lou?
I'm sorry if I let you down.
You didn't let ME down. Or even Lou. We don't live or die by what you scribble, Fink. You let Ben Geisler down. He liked you. Trusted you. And that's why he's gone. Fired. That guy had a heart as big as the outdoors, and you fucked him. He tried to convince me to fire you too, but that would be too easy. No, you're under contract and you're gonna stay that way. Anything you write will be the property of Capitol Pictures. And Capitol Pictures will not produce anything you write. Not until you grow up a little. You ain't no writer, Fink you're a goddamn writeoff.
I tried to show you something beautiful. Something about all of US 
Neighbor, I'd feel better about the damned inconvenience if you'd let me buy you a drink.
That's all right, really, thank you.
All right, hell, you trying to work and me carrying on in there. Look, the liquor's good, wuddya say?
... You got a glass? It's the least I can do.
Okay... a quick one, sure...
Yeah, just a nip. I feel like hell, all the carryingson next door.
That's okay, I assure you. It's just that I was trying to work 
What kind of work do you do, Barton, if you don't mind my asking?
Well, I'm a writer, actually.
You don't say. That's a tough racket. My hat's off to anyone who can make a go of it. Damned interesting work, I'd imagine.
Can be. Not easy, but 
Damned difficult, I'd imagine.
And what's your line, Mr. Meadows?
Hell no! Call me Charlie. Well Barton, you might say I sell peace of mind. Insurance is my game doortodoor, human contact, still the only way to move merchandise.
...In spite of what you might think from tonight, I'm pretty good at it.
Doesn't surprise me at all.
Hell yes. Because I believe in it. Fire, theft, and casualty are not things that only happen to other people that's what I tell 'em. Writing doesn't work out, you might want to look into it. Providing for basic human need a fella could do worse.
Thanks, I'll keep it in mind.
What kind of scribbler are you newspaperman did you say?
No, I'm actually writing for the pictures now 
Pictures! Jesus!
...Is the egg showing or what?!
That's okay; actually I am just starting out in the movies though I was pretty well established in New York, some renown there,
Oh, it's an exciting time then. I'm not the bestread mug on the planet, so I guess it's no surprise I didn't recognize your name. Jesus, I feel like a heel.
That's okay, Charlie. I'm a playwright. My shows've only played New York. Last one got a hell of a writeup in the Herald. I guess that's why they wanted me here.
Hell, why not? Everyone wants quality. What kind of venue, that is to say, thematically, uh...
What do I write about?
Caught me trying to be fancy! Yeah, that's it, Bart.
Well, that's a good question. Strange as it may seem, Charlie, I guess I write about people like you. The average working stiff. The common man.
Well ain't that a kick in the head!
Yeah, I guess it is. But in a way, that's exactly the point. There's a few people in New York hopefully our numbers are growing who feel we have an opportunity now to forge something real out of everyday experience, create a theater for the masses that's based on a few simple truths not on some shopworn abstractions about drama that doesn't hold true today, if they ever did...
...I don't guess this means much to you.
Hell, I could tell you some stories
And that's the point, that we all have stories. The hopes and dreams of the common man are as noble as those of any king. It's the stuff of life why shouldn't it be the stuff of theater? Goddamnit, why should that be a hard pill to swallow? Don't call it new theater, Charlie; call it real theater. Call it our theater.
I can see you feel pretty strongly about it.
Well, I don't mean to get up on my high horse, but why shouldn't we look at ourselves up there? Who cares about the Fifth Earl of Bastrop and Lady Higginbottom and and and who killed Nigel GrinchGibbons?
I can feel my butt getting sore already.
Exactly, Charlie! You understand what I'm saying a lot more than some of these literary types. Because you're a real man!
And I could tell you some stories 
Sure you could! And yet many writers do everything in their power to insulate themselves from the common man from where they live, from where they trade, from where they fight and love and converse and and and... so naturally their work suffers, and regresses into empty formalism and well, I'm spouting off again, but to put it in your language, the theater becomes as phony as a three dollar bill.
Yeah, I guess that's tragedy right there.
Frequently played, seldom remarked.
You're all right, Charlie. I'm glad you stopped by. I'm sorry if well I know I sometimes run on.
Hell no! Jesus, I'm the kind of guy, I'll let you know if I'm bored. I find it all pretty damned interesting. I'm the kind schmoe who's generally interested in the other guy's point of view.
Well, we've got something in common then.
Sure, sure Charlie, you can help by just being yourself.
Well, I can tell you some stories 
...And look, I'm sorry as hell about the interruption. Too much revelry late at night, you forget there are other people in the world.
See you, Charlie.
Howdy, neighbor.
Charlie. How are you.
Jesus, I hope I'm not interrupting you again. I heard you walking around in here. Figured I'd drop by.
Yeah, come in Charlie. Hadn't really gotten started yet what happened to your ear?
Oh, yeah. An ear infection, chronic thing. Goes away for a while, but it always comes back. Gotta put cotton in it to staunch the flow of pus. Don't worry, it's not contagious.
Seen a doctor?
Ah, doctors. What's he gonna tell me? Can't trade my head in for a new one.
No, I guess you're stuck with the one you've got. Have a seat.
Thanks, I'd invite you over to my place, but it's a goddamn mess. You married, Bart?
Nope.
I myself have yet to be lassoed.
...Got a sweetheart?
No... I guess it's something about my work. I get so worked up over it, I don't know; I don't really have a lot of attention left over, so it would be a little unfair...
Yeah, the ladies do ask for attention. In my experience, they pretend to give it, but it's generally a smoke screen for demanding it back with interest. How about family, Bart? How're you fixed in that department?
My folks live in Brooklyn, with my uncle.
Mine have passed on. It's just the three of us now...
...What's the expression me myself and I.
Sure, that's tough, but in a sense, we're all alone in this world aren't we Charlie? I'm often surrounded by family and friends, but...
...It was taken by one of my policy holders. They're more than just customers to me, Barton. They really appreciate what I have to offer them. Ya see, her hubby was out of town at the time 
You know, in a way, I envy you Charlie. Your daily routine you know what's expected. You know the drill. My job is to plumb the depths, so to speak, dredge something up from inside, something honest. There's no road map for that territory...
...This must be boring you.
Not at all. It's damned interesting.
Yeah...
...Probably sounds a little grand coming from someone who's writing a wrestling picture for Wallace Beery.
Beery! You got no beef there! He's good. Hell of an actor though, for my money, you can't beat Jack Oakie. A stitch, Oakie. Funny stuff, funny stuff. But don't get me wrong Beery, a wrestling picture, that could be a pip. Wrestled some myself back in school. I guess you know the basic moves.
Nope, never watched any. I'm not that interested in the act itself 
Okay, but hell, you should know what it is. I can show you in about thirty seconds.
...You're a little out of your weight class, but just for purposes of demonstration 
That's all right, really 
Not a bit of it, compadre! Easiest thing in the world! You just get down on your knees to my left, slap your right hand here...
...All right now, when I say "Ready... wrestle!" you try and pin me, and I try and pin you. That's the whole game. Got it?
...Yeah, okay.
Ready... wrestle!
It's okay, it's okay.
Well, that's all that wrestling is. Except usually there's more grunting and squirming before the pin. Well, it's your first time. And you're out of your weight class.
I hope these are your shoes.
Hi, Charlie.
Because that would mean they gave you mine.
Yeah, as a matter of fact they did. Come on in.
Jesus, what a day I've had. Ever had one of those days?
Seems like nothing but, lately.
Jesus, what a day. Felt like I couldn't've sold ice water in the Sahara. Jesus. Okay, so you don't want insurance, so okay, that's your loss. But God, people can be rude. Feel like I have to talk to a normal person like just to restore a little of my...
Well, my pleasure. I could use a little lift myself.
A little lift, yeah...
...Did I say rude? People can be goddamn cruel. Especially some of their housewives. Okay, so I've got a weight problem. That's my cross to bear. I dunno...
Well it's... it's a defense mechanism.
Defense against what? Insurance? Something they need? Something they should be thanking me for offering? A little peace of mind?...
...Listen to me bellyachin'. As if my problems amounted to a hill of beans. How goes the life of the mind?
Well, it's been better. I can't seem to get going on this thing. That one idea, the one that lets you get started I still haven't gotten it. Maybe I only had one idea in me my play. Maybe once that was done, I was done being a writer. Christ, I feel like a fraud, sitting here staring at this paper.
Those two lovebirds next door drivin' you nuts?
How did you know about that?
Know about it? I can practically see how they're doin' it. Brother, I wish I had a piece of that.
Yeah, but 
Seems like I hear everything that goes on in this dump. Pipes or somethin'. I'm just glad I don't have to ply MY trade in the weewee hours.
...Ah, you'll lick this picture business, believe me. You've got a head on your shoulders. What is it they say? Where there's a head, there's a hope?
Where there's life there's hope.
And there's hope for you too, Charlie. Tomorrow I bet you sell a halfdozen policies.
Thanks, brother. But the fact is, I gotta pull up stakes temporarily.
You're leaving?
In a few days. Out to your stompin' grounds as a matter of fact New York City. Things have gotten all balled up at the Head Office.
I'm truly sorry to hear that, Charlie. I'll miss you.
Well hell, buddy, don't pull a long face! This is still home for me I keep my room, and I'll be back sooner or later...
...Your room does that too?
I guess the heat's sweating off the wallpaper.
What a dump...
...I guess it seems pathetic to a guy like you.
Well...
Well it's pathetic, isn't it? I mean to a guy from New York.
What do you mean?
This kind of heat. It's pathetic.
Well, I guess you pick your poison.
So they say.
Don't pick up and leave without saying goodbye.
Course not, compadre. You'll see me again.
...Can I come in?
No!... I'm fine. Thank you.
Are you sure 
No... no...
Barton. Are you all right?
No... Can I come in?
Why don't we go to your room
Charlie, I'm in trouble. You've gotta help me.
Get a grip on yourself, brother. Whatever the problem is, we'll sort it out.
Charlie, I'm in trouble something horrible's happened I've gotta call the police...
...Will you stay with me till they get here?
Don't worry about it, Barton. We can sort it
...Jesus, Barton, what the hell is this? What're we gonna do?
I've gotta call the police or you could call for me 
Hold on 
You gotta believe me 
Hold on 
I didn't do this, I did NOT do this
Hold on. Stop. Take a deep breath. Tell me what happened.
I don't know! I woke up, she was... God, you gotta believe me!
I believe you, brother, but this don't look good.
We gotta call the police 
Hold on. I said hold on, so hold on.
Yeah.
What do you think happened?
I don't know! Maybe it was her... boyfriend. I passed out. I don't know. Won't the police be able to 
Stop with the police! Wake up, friend! This does not look good! They hang people for this!
But I didn't do it don't you believe me?
I believe you I KNOW you. But why should the police?
Jesus... They can tell that...
They GOTTA believe me, Charlie! They gotta have mercy!
You're in pictures, Barton. Even if you got cleared eventually, this would ruin you.
...Uhhuh... Where's Audrey?
She's dead, Barton! If that was her name.
Jesus... You're leaving.
Have to, old timer. Just for a while.
Jesus, Charlie, I...
Everything's okay, believe me. I know it's rough mentally, but everything's taken care of.
Charlie! I've got no one else here! You're the only person I know in Los Angeles...
It's okay... It's okay...
Charlie, I feel like I'm going crazy like I'm losing my mind. I don't know what to do... I didn't do it, believe me. I'm sure of that, Charlie. I just...
...I just don't know what... to do
You gotta get a grip on, brother. You gotta just carry on just for a few days, till I get back. Try and stay here, keep your door locked. Don't talk to anyone. We just gotta keep our heads and we'll figure it out.
Yeah, but Charlie 
Dammit, don't argue with me. You asked me to believe you well I do. Now don't argue with me.
Sure, Charlie.
Funny, huh, when everything that's important to a guy, everything he wants to keep from a lifetime when he can fit it into a little box like that. I guess... I guess it's kind of pathetic.
It's more than I've got.
Well, keep it for me. Maybe it'll bring you good luck. Yeah, it'll help you finish your script. You'll think about me...
You'll be back?
Don't worry about that, compadre. I'll be back.
...Don't look at me like that, neighbor. It's just me Charlie.
I hear it's Mundt. Madman Mundt.
But Charlie why me? Why 
Because you DON'T LISTEN!
I thought you were going to join us. Jesus, Garland, you left me alone with those people.
Don't panic, I'll join you in a minute. What's you think of Richard and Poppy?
We have to talk a little business. I've just been on the phone to Los Angeles. Barton, Capitol Pictures wants to put you under contract. They've offered you a thousand dollars a week. I think I can get them to go as high as two.
To do what?
What do you do far a living?
I'm not sure anymore. I guess I try to make a difference.
Fair enough. No pressure here, Barton, because I respect you, but let me point out a couple of things. One, here you make a difference to five hundred fifty people a night if the show sells out. Eighty five million people go to the pictures every week.
To see pap.
Yes, generally, to see pap. However, point number two: A brief tenure in Hollywood could support you through the writing of any number of plays.
I don't know, Garland; my place is here right now. I feel I'm on the brink of success
I'd say you're already enjoying some.
...I guess I'm sprouting off again. But I am certain of this, Garland: I'm capable of more good work. Maybe better work than I did in Choirs. It just doesn't seem to me that Los Angeles is the place to lead the life of mind.
Okay Barton, you're the artist, I'm just the ten percenter. You decide what you want and I'll make it happen. I'm only asking that your decision be informed by a little realism if I can use that word and Hollywood in the same breath.
...Look, they love you, kid everybody does. You see Caven's review in the Herald?
No, what did it say?
Take my copy. You're the toast of Broadway and you have the opportunity to redeem that for a little cash strike that, a lot of cash.
Barton? What time is it? Are you all right?
Yeah, I'm fine, Garland I have to talk to you. I'm calling long distance.
Okay.
...What is it Barton? Are you okay?
I'm fine, garland, but I have to talk with you.
Go ahead, son.
It's about what I'm writing, Garland. It's really... I think it's really big.
What do you mean, Barton?
Not big in the sense of large although it's that too. I mean important. This may be the most IMPORTANT work I've done.
Well, I'm... glad to hear that 
Very important, Garland. I just thought you should know that. Whatever happens.
...That's fine.
Have you read the Bible, Garland?
...Barton, is everything okay?
Yes... Isn't it?
Well, I'm just asking. You sound a little 
Sound a little what?
Well, you just... sound a little
I'm a writer, Mr. Geisler. Ted Okum said I should drop by morning to see you about the 
Ever act?
...Huh? No, I'm 
We need Indians for a Norman Steele western.
I'm a writer. Ted O 
Think about it, Fink. Writers come and go; we always need Indians.
I'm a writer. Ted Okum said you're producing this Wallace Beery picture I'm working on.
What!? Ted Okum doesn't know shit. They've assigned me enough pictures for a goddamn year. What Ted Okum doesn't know you could almost squeeze into the Hollywood Bowl.
Then who should I talk to?
Don't worry about it. It's just a B picture. I bring it in on budget, they'll book it without even screening it. Life is too short.
But Lipnik said he wanted to look at the script, see something by the end of the week.
Sure he did. And he forgot about it before your ass left his sofa.
Okay. I'm just having trouble getting started. It's funny, I'm blocked up. I feel like I need some kind of indication of... what's expected 
Wallace Beery. Wrestling picture. What do you need, a road map?
...Look, you're confused? You need guidance? Talk to another writer.
Who?
Wuddya got for me what the hell happened to your face?
Nothing. It's just a mosquito bite.
Like hell it is; there are no mosquitos in Los Angeles. Mosquitos breed in swamps this is a desert town. Wuddya got for me?
Well I...
On the Beery picture! Where are we? Wuddya got?
Well, to tell you the truth, I'm having some trouble getting started
Getting STARTED! Christ Jesus! Started?! You mean you don't have ANYthing?!
Well not much.
What do you think this is? HAMLET? GONE WITH THE WIND? RUGGLES OF RED GAP? It's a goddamn B picture! Big men in tights! You know the drill!
I'm afraid I don't really understand that genre. maybe that's the prob
Understand shit! I though you were gonna consult another writer on this!
Well, I've talked to Bill Mayhew
Bill Mayhew! Some help! The guy's a souse!
He's a great writer 
A souse!
You don't understand. He's in pain, because he can't write
Souse! Souse! He manages to write his name on the back of his paycheck every week!
But... I thought no one cared about this picture.
You thought! Where'd you get THAT from? You thought! I don't know what the hell you said to Lipnik, but the sonofabitch LIKES you! You understand that, Fink? He LIKES you! He's taken an interest. NEVER make Lipnik like you. NEVER!
I don't understand
Are you deaf, he LIKES you! He's taken an interest! What the hell did you say to him?
I didn't say anything
Well he's taken an interest! That means he'll make your life hell, which I could care less about, but since I drew the short straw to supervise this turkey, he's gonna be all over me too! Fatassed sonofabitch called me yesterday to ask how it's going don't worry, I covered for you. Told him you were making progress and we were all very excited. I told him it was great, so now MY ass is on the line. He wants you to tell him all about it tomorrow.
I can't write anything by tomorrow.
Who said write? Jesus, Jack can't read. You gotta TELL it to himtell him SOMEthing for Chrissake.
Well what do I tell him?
I beg your pardon?
W.P. Mayhew? The writer?
Just Bill, please.
Sir, I'm flattered that you even recognize my name. My God, I had no idea you were in Hollywood.
All of us undomesticated writers eventually make their way out here to the Great Salt Lick. Mebbe that's why I allus have such a powerful thrust.
...A little social lubricant, Mistuh Fink?
It's still a little early for me.
So be it.
...Still, I must say. I haven't felt peace like this since the grand productive days. Don't you find it so, Barton? Ain't writin' peace?
Well... actually, no Bill...
...No, I've always found that writing comes from a great inner pain. Maybe it's a pain that comes from a realization that one must do something for one's fellow man to help somehow to ease his suffering. Maybe it's a personal pain. At any rate, I don't believe good work is possible without it.
Mmm. Wal, me, I just enjoy maikn' things up. Yessir. Escape... It's when I can't write, can't escape m'self, that I want to tear m'head off and run screamin' down the street with m'balls in a fruitpickers pail. Mm...
Look, maybe it's none of my business, but a man with your talent don't you think your first obligation would be to your gift? Shouldn't you be doing whatever you have to do to work again?
And what would that be, son?
I don't know exactly. But I do know what you're doing with that drink. You're cutting yourself off from your gift, and from me and Audrey, and from your fellow man, and from everything your art is about.
No son, thisahere moonshine's got nothin' to do with shuttin' folks out. No, I'm usin' it to build somethin'.
What's that?
I'm buildin' a levee. Gulp by gulp, brick by brick. Raisin' up a levee to keep that ragin' river of manure from lappin' at m'door.
I'll jus' walk on down to the Pacific, and from there I'll... improvise.
Are you all right?
I'm sorry, I just feel like I know I shouldn't ask, I just need some kind of help, I just, I have a deadline tomorrow
I said drown 'em all! Who is that?
Goddamn voices... DROWN 'EM!
I need help, Audrey.
I write.
Oh yeah? What kind of write?
Well as a matter of fact, I write for the pictures.
No, I I didn't mean to sound 
What DID you mean?
I I've got respect for for working guys, like you 
How long you been up there, Fink?
A week, eight, nine days 
Ever talk to him?
...Once or twice. His name is Charlie Meadows.
Yeah, he's funny that way.
I...
...No. I never saw him with anyone else.
So. You talked to Mundt, what about?
Nothing, really. Said he was in the insurance business.
Well that's what he said.
What else?
He... I'm trying to think... Nothing, really... He... He said he liked Jack Oakie pictures.
Could you come back later? It's just... too hot... My head is killing me.
All right, forget the heads. Where's Mundt, Fink?
How d'ya like your room!
...Who is this?
Chet!
...Who?
Chet! From downstairs!
...Hello.
Garland, it's me.
If I close m'eyes I can almost smell the live oak.
That's hamburger grease, Bill.
Well, m'olfactory's turnin' womanish on me lyin' and deceitful...
...This'll sometimes help.
That doesn't help anything, Bill.
So now I'm s'posed to roll over like an ol' bitch dog gettin' ger belly scratched.
Bill 
M'honey pretends to be impatient with me, Barton, but she'll put up with anything.
Not anything, Bill. Don't test me.
Am I? Maybe to a schoolboy's eye. People who know about the human heart, though, mebbe they'd say, Bill over here, he gives his honey love, and she pays him back with pity the basest coin there is.
Stop it, Bill!
Barton, I'm afraid it's not a good time
Drown all those rascals...
All right Barton, I'll see if I can slip away
Who is that?! Gaddamn voices come into the house... sons of bitches...
I'll try to slip out. If he quiets down, passes out... I'm afraid he thinks well, he said you were a buffoon, Barton. He becomes irrational
Hesh up! Be still now! DROWN 'EM! DROWN 'EM! DROWN 
Is, uh... Is he okay?
He will be... When he can't write, he drinks.
I am sorry, it's so embarassing.
How about you? Will you be alright?
I'll be fine... Are you a writer, Mr Fink?
Yes I am. I'm working on a wres please call me Barton.
I'll tell Bill you dropped by. I'm sure he'll want to reschedule your appointment.
Perhaps you and I could get together at some point also. I'm sorry if that sounds abrupt. I just... I don't know anyone here in this town.
Perhaps the three of us, Mr. Fink.
Please, Barton.
Barton. You see, Barton, I'm not just Bill's secretary Bill and I are... I love. We
I see.
...I know this must look... funny.
No, no 
Let him go.
That son of a bitch... Don't get me wrong, he's a fine writer.
...Oh Barton, I feel so... sorry for him!
What?! He's a son of a bitch!
No, sometimes he just... well, he thinks about Estelle. His wife still lives in Fayettesville. She's... disturbed.
Really?...
...Well that doesn't excuse his behavior.
He'll wander back when he's sober and apologize. He always does.
Okay, but that doesn't excuse his 
Barton. Empathy requires... understanding.
What. What don't I understand?
Pick it up... Pick it up. Pick it
Hello.
Audrey, listen, I need help. I know it's late and I shouldn't be calling you like this believe me I wouldn't have if I could see any other alternative, but I I'm sorry  listen, how are you I'm sorry. You doing okay?
...Who is this?
Barton. I'm sorry, it's Barton Fink.
If you could, I'd 
If I can. He gets jealous; he
Hello, Barton.
Audrey, thank you for coming. Thank you. I'm sorry to be such a... such a... Thank you.
Now that's all right, Barton. Everything'll be all right.
Yes. Thank you. How's Bill?
Oh, he's... he drifted off. He'll sleep for a while now. What is it you have to do, exactly?
Well I have to come up with an outline, I'd guess you call it. The story. The whole goddamn story. Soup to nuts. Three acts. The whole goddamn
It's alright, Barton. You don't have to write actual scenes?
No, but the whole goddamn Audrey? Have you ever had to read any of Bill's wrestling scenarios?
Yes, I'm afraid I have.
What are they like? What are they about?
Well, usually, they're... simply morality tales. There's a good wrestler, and a bad wrestler whom he confronts at the end. In between, the good wrestler has a love interest or a child he has to protect. Bill would usually make the good wrestler a backwoods type, or a convict. And sometimes, instead of a waif, he'd have the wrestler protecting an idiot manchild. The studio always hated that. Oh, some of the scripts were so... spirited!
Well... THIS.
You wrote his scripts for him?
Well, the basic ideas were frequently his
You wrote Bill's scripts! Jesus Christ, you wrote his what about before that?
Before what?
Before Bill came to Hollywood.
Well, Bill was ALWAYS the author, so to speak
What do you mean so to speak?! Audrey, how long have you been his... secretary?
Barton, I think we should concentrate on OUR little project
I want to know how many of Bill's books you wrote!
Barton!
I want to know!
Barton, honestly, only the last couple
Hah!
And my input was mostly... EDITORIAL, really, when he'd been drinking
I'll bet. Jesus "The grand productive days." What a goddamn phony.
So where's Buckaroo?
Whadda you need Buckaroo for?
Unscheduled surgery. He'll be waltzing along momentarily. What're you doing tonight?
Flying to Cambodia.
That's why I wear a fifty dollar hat. Was a two hundred dollar hat, I hadda kill you.
Bet you say that to all the girls, Perfect Tommy.
Bet I do.
Now twenty seconds downrange...Perfect Tommy, how on earth is Buckaroo able to keep that thing on the ground?
She's just a damn road hugger, Allison. Plus the man can drive.
Better see what's keepin' the boss, Reno.
Why me?
Pick those up, Reno.
I didn't drop 'em.
It's a spittin' image.
Doesn't look anything like her to me.
Pictures don't lie.
Hell they don't. I met my first wife that way.
It's Peggy to these eyes. Same nose, same hair. Plus Buckaroo thinks so too or else he wouldn't be ready to go make a fool of himself, right?
Doctor Lizardo. Wasn't he on TV once?
You're thinking of Mr. Wizard. This guy's an eccentric genius.
Hey, so was Mr. Wizard.
The name's Reno. This here's Perfect Tommy.
Where do you hail from, Doc?
Reno, how's about you take New Jersey's gear, mosey on over to the bus and introduce him to the rest of the hands.
Why me?
Cause Buckaroo needs me here.
Any sign of Buckaroo?
No! Ditto the professor
We're waiting for the Jet Car. Billy's bringing it.
Asshole probably got lost.
How long you been riding with Buckaroo, Reno?
Nigh on ten years. Been through a lotta scrapes together.
What'd you do before? Can I ask?
Government work. Had my own think tank. Got tired of thinkingwanted some action. Seen plenty of it too. So will you if you stick around.
Where's Buckaroo? Is he alive?
Course he's alive. He's Buckaroo Banzai.
What's his problem?
Perfect Tommy's just threatened by smart women. Can you play that thing?
Better than him.
Buckaroo, come in...over. How does this damn thing work? Can anybody figure this lighter out?
No, sir. I think the flint...
What's happening with my call to SAC?
Still no confirmation either from SAC or Strategic Space Command. They report all surveillance satellite communication jammed.
Jammed? By who? Whom by?
Possible atmospheric condition, sir...solar. It's unusual, but no cause for alarm. Intelligence reports the Soviets are having the same problem.
Should we be on Code Red?
What? A black ship? Where? A black thermopod's been shot down ten miles back.
A black thermopod here? On Earth?! Why, John Gomez? Why?
Where was it, John O'Connor? How far back?
I have a radio fix...
Not here! No Overthruster!
John Whorfin will kill us!
You look! It's not here!
But John Whorfin said kill her.
Damn John Whorfin!
World Watch One. Direct incoming transmission.
Hello, Mr. President. How's my favorite patient? Any tenderness?
That which does not kill us makes us stronger, Buckaroo. What's it like out there in the real world?
Not too terrific, sir. I apologize for the interruption but something very unusual has reared its ugly head in outer space, and it looks like the Earth's caught in a crossfire.
You're gonna have to repeat that, I think, Buckaroo.
...hit Smolensk and precipitate a thermonuclear war, Mr. President.
A what?
A thermonuclear holocaust, sir. These creatures from Planet 10 are ready to exploit SovietAmerican tensions and get us to blow each other off the face of the earth, sir, if necessary.
You're quite serious about this, aren't you, Buckaroo. We know each other pretty well, I think.
Raise your hand...where?
This is so embarrassing...
Somebody get her a mike? Can we manage that? And a spotlight. What's your name?
Penny. I'd rather not reveal my last name or my age.
Did you say..."Peggy"?
My name is Penny. Penny Priddy. There I've said it, but it won't mean anything to you. I'm a nobody.
Nobody's a nobody. Why're you crying? What's wrong?
Did I say anything was wrong? I just sponged up a little too much Vat 69, okay? I'm down to my last nickel in this lousy town, I can't get my luggage outta hock 'cause I met this jerk who said he was a record producer when all he had was a record. He offered to set me up for life, and like a fool, well, I...
He offered you money?
Do I look like that kinda girl? I lost my room this morning. I don't know where I'm gonna sleep tonight, but I keep going. What the hell else can I do? I've still got my figure, and like this bozo said, as long as there's a sidewalk, I'll always have a job.
This song's for Peggy. And all you others out there a little down on your luck.
My name's, Penny! But who cares?
Let me go, let me go, you creeps...
Everybody okay up here?
What're you doing here? Why're you looking at me like that?
I guess 'cause you remind me of someone I once knew, long ago before any of this craziness.
Go away. Let me rot?
Who were you really trying to kill last night?
You. Like the papers all say.
Pretty terrible shot.
Was she pretty?
Who?
The girl I remind you of.
She was the Queen of the Netherlands.
It's kinda hard this way.
I'd turn around, but I'm afraid you'd strangle me.
The Netherlands. Whew, that's a long way from Wyoming.
Wyoming? Not Cody, by any chance?
No. Laramie. Except I was born in Cody. How did you know that? Oh, right, sure, I forgot: you know everything.
No, I don't.
Having a little trouble with that knot, aren't you?
Which? The one in my throat.
Did you have family there? A sister? In Cody?
I don't know. I always felt like I did, like there was another me...
Another 'you'?
Somewhere. See I was taken away by the Priddies when I was a baby. I was adopted.
Adopted. I should have know. Of course. If it was a snake, it'd bit me!
What? I don't understand you. I don't understand anything anymore.
Who does? It's a crazy mixedup world. Just do the best you can with what you have...
You keep an eye on it.
Any time.
Open up or I'll shoot it off.
I'll shoot yours off if I had a gun, you doubledealing Casanova! I thought you liked me for myself. But why should you, huh? A jerk like me.
She must've been a bigger fool than me if she ran out on a guy like you...
She was killed, Penny.
Oh, my.
Don't go to pieces. I haven't got time tonight.
Looks like you're the one might go to pieces.
Where's my damn ammo? Nothing is ever where it's supposed to be around here!
How did she die? I wanna know.
You don't wanna know.
Yes, I do. Gimme a chance. I'm stronger than you think.
She was murdered by Hanoi Shan on our wedding night.
Hanoi Shan? The guy in your comic books. Boss of the World Crime League? Supreme Commander of the Legion of Death? The Pivot of Mystery himself? You're putting me on. He's a cartoon character.
I wish he was. He's real enough.
Never.
I gotta be honest with myself and not repress these feelingsI've got mixed emotionsI don't know if I can handle this. Oh, boy...
I gotta go. We're on borrowed time.
Go where? Where're you going?
Please, Penny. You just gotta trust me now. Okay? And don't panic. Because it's gonna be all right.
What? If we just believe in Buckaroo Banzai?
Yeah...and maybe more important, if you believe in yourself.
Believe in Penny Priddy?
Absolutely.
You've got your six guns strapped on. You're ridding off on another adventure? Oh, my God, it's all real...it really is real. I should go with you. Please...
It's too dangerous.
That's just what you would say. This is so unreal. I'm dreaming...
Stay here, I'll be back.
Sure. I won't hold my breath.
I'm not worth it, Buckaroo! Forget me!
Penny?! Are you all right?
And there's a twohundreddollar deductible we have to eat on that crack in her windshield.
Figures. Anybody seen my scope?
They're arachtoids, Buckaroo, from Planet 10!
What? How do you know that?
...where there was some kinda giant crash landing, a huge explosion and they fooled Orson Welles into covering it up! And then they founded Yoyodyne Propulsion Systems and hid there for...
Orson Wells? What about Doctor Lizardo?
...but he wasn't the real Doctor Lizardo...just this arachtoid creep that stole the good doc's body the year before in the Eighth Dimension when Prof. Hikita's lab exploded...
Stole his body? When Doctor Lizardo's hair turned red and his mind snapped? Of course! What else?
Where're you goin'?
To get my guns.
And they got Penny! Look!
Don't shoot!
They're armed for bear, Buckaroo. Check out those radiation levels.
John Parker, tell them we're doing our best. Stall.
Got a casualty list?
Just their side. What're we gonna do with these people? They're illegal aliens, the way I figure, been here forty years, you could throw the book at 'em...
And ask the American taxpayer to foot the bill? No way. Send 'em back to the Eighth Dimension as soon as we find the Overthruster. It wasn't in Penny's purse...so if we have to run this joint upside down and inside out...
These antidote filters the Professor's whipped up will let you to see them like I have since yesterday, as arachtoidal creatures. They won't be pretty, nothing personal, John Parker. But just remember...if we fail tonight, there's no tomorrow.
They will never surrender. They will fight to the end.
What is this thing? A fighter?
Don't look at me, Buckaroo Banzai. I failed flight school.
We're going down! Onto the runway!
The door's locked.
I lack the authority, Buckaroo Banzai.
At least tell them I'm trying! Tell 'em something!
Does this thing have guns, John Parker?
Boy, I hope so, Buckaroo Banzai.
Pull up! We did it! Holy shit, we did it! Pull up!
Now, Buckaroo Banzai?
Now!
Anybody we know?
Who put this dirty picture in Buckaroo's viewer?
Buckaroo, you got a minute?
Not really. This is pretty important.
She wants a picture.
Everybody ready? How do we look? Do we look okay?
I look great. Let's rock 'n' roll.
Hey, any lock can be picked. So what's he up to?
I'm sure we'll find out soon enough.
Running a little late, Buckaroo.
Let her out. In my custody.
Let her out? She's a killer.
Planet 10? The same Planet 10 you postulated beyond Pluto, Perfect Tommy? The invisible body?
Yeah, but most of 'em blasted in through the Eighth Dimension in 1938 at Grover's Mills, New Jersey...
It wouldn't tell us the whole story until you got here. It wasn't to talk to the head honcho.
It? Who does?
Buckaroo! Sorry
What is it, Tommy?
Sam's dead! Someone broke into the Jet Car! And things are going haywire over at the lab...
Dead. Damnit!
Where's the professor?
It's Whorfin, Buckaroo. Line 3.
Whorfin? Does he know we're coming?
All accounted for? Where's Penny?
New Jersey brought her back to the bus through heavy fire. Quite a guy if you want my opinion.
I'm starving...somebody, help.
Got a half a tuna sandwich.
Same one you had yesterday?
Then what?
Vanished. Thin air.
Dr. Lizardo's a raving lunatic, Perfect Tommy, a vicious psychopath with crazy eyes and flaming orange hair that once upon a time was mousy brown like yours.
Have you warned Professor Hikita?
First thing I did.
The professor and Dr. Emilio Lizardo were actually the first to discover the Eighth Dimension. Almost fifty years ago. Before Buckaroo's parents even knew each other. But there was trouble, a rocket catapult failed and Dr. Lizardo got sucked half in, half out...when they hauled him back ,he wasn't the same guy. His hair was orange...
And his soul black as the Ace of Spades.
He went on a senseless crime spree, killed a cop during a bank robbery, got caught and judged insane. The professor told us they threw away the key.
Go back to the bus and reroute the call.
And try the President's private number at the hospital. Make sure this is on the level. We're busy people here.
That's me. I've been ionized, but I'm okay. I'm, switching on the homing beacon, mark two minute intervals.
Buckaroo, somebody shanghaied the Professor!
The deuce you say. That crate!
What crate?
I think I'm on to something. You and the guys go back to the house and dig up everything you can on an outfit called Yoyodyne.
Yoyodyne Propulsion Systems? You think they're mixed up in this?
You okay?
Yeah. Just grazed me. The Professor's under the floor too...with the Overthruster...
You're a welcome sight...
Just 'grazed' you, huh?
Apache?
Arachtoid.
So I was right. That's nice to know...
We will, old fried, we will.
Sure do pack a mean wallop...let's go...
See 'em? They about had me and the whole damn car for breakfast. Broke my windshield...
The creatures? They attacked you? They tried to possess you?
Smells fermented. Check in with the Institute, Reno, see if everything's kosher.
Buckaroo, I've done an advanced spectrograph analysis on the specimen you pulled off the Jet Car drive shaft.
Rawhide tells me Dr. Lizardo escaped...
I'm assigning a couple Blue Shields to protect you around the clock, just in case.
We at the Banzai Institute have at last found that way: an alternating gradient synchronizer that softens solid matter by attenuating its electroweak forces!
Which we all know are the forces that tend to pull objects part, right, professor?
Buckaroo! What the Sam Hill!
Careful...don't make noise and don't touch me. I'm hotter than flapjacks.
What?
I'm a giant semiconductor, and there's alien creatures all around us. Form the Eighth Dimension, I think. Look...
Ever since that phony phone call from the President. Look at this. What is it?
It's your hand, Buckaroo.
It's an antidote. A formula. Whoever it was on the phone made me scribble this and gave me the ability to penetrate their disguises.
Antidote to what? Whose disguises?
Arachtoids. From Planet Ten.
Planet 10?
There's a Harley behind those bushes. Get back to the laboratory and start working on the formula. We don't have time to ask questions. Just synthesize it
Forgive the butterfingers, Buckaroo. Casper Lindley, Knight of the Blue Shield, at your disposal. And my son, Scooter.
Nothing to apologize for, Casper. You've gone beyond the call of duty tonight. Mind if I get on the horn and radio the Cavaliers? They'll be worried.
She gotta be kiddin', right? Vaporize the whole damn planet?
You wanna take the chance, Casper?
Not me. No way.
Rawhide, go find out how Professor Hikita's coming with that formula. Mrs. Johnson, take Casper and Scooter, gas up the Jet Car.
There's another one we owe 'em.
They're stealing my chopper!
So we'll help. Let's get crackin'!
Who're you?
All these people applied for drivers' licenses in the same town in New Jersey on the exact same date.
New Jersey?
Fortysix Yoyodyne employees. Grover's Mill, New Jersey, 11/1/38.
November 1, thirty days have September, April, June, and November...when short February's done, all the rest have thirtyone. October 31st! Halloween! Don't you get it? Orson Welles!
You mean the guy from the old wine commercials?
Halloween. 1938..."War of the Worlds"...that fake radio news broadcast that got everybody scared, thinking that real live Martians were landing in Grover's Mill, New Jersey! But then it all just turned out to be a hoax.
Then that's it!
Hi.
Hold it right there.
I could've held off an army if I could've gotten behind a rock in the mountains.
Think I'll take the juice?
Beats me.
You tossed my hat out the window.
Wanta sue me?
No.
Morning... Say, you got any gas?
Maybe.
Well. I'm sorry, sir, but we've got to ask you for it.
See, we're about out... been driving all night. Actually, I don't even have time to explain it to you.
Well, matter of fact, I don't have any.
Just a second now. That's your truck. isn't it?
You didn't walk out here.
It's mine all right.
Well, listen. I'm going to swap you my Cadillac.
Who are you?
Name is Carruthers. Believe I shoot people every now and then. Not that I deserve a medal.
Okay, friend. Start running.
Just gimme a chance.
Git.
Hi.
Yes?
This your place?
Yes.
Sorry to barge in on you. Anybody else here besides you two?
No.
Good deal... Oh, uh, we're on the run and we'd like to hang out here for a while. Couple of hours, maybe. How'd that be?
Stay as long as you like.
Hi, whatcha doing?
Just thinking.
Good a way to kill time as any... She okay?
Yes.
Listen, ah... We're going to take the Cadillac for a while. How'd that be?
Fine.
Don't worry, I won't let her drive.
You're my friend, aren't you?
Yes.
Okay, no monkey business then.
Hi.
Hi... ah, Mister Scarborough here?
Yeah, but the thing about him, he's down with the flu. He's sick.
Really?
Yeah. I'd invite you inside, except it's contagious. Don't want to start an epidemic.
No, of course not. It's only that he called last night and asked if I could come by.
Well, he didn't have it last night.
What's that?
Well, I'd like to leave a message, if that's okay.
Sure.
Hi, I'm Kit. I'm not keeping you from anything important, am I?
No.
Well, I was just messing around over there, thought I'd come over and say hello to you. I'll try anything once. What's your name? I said mine.
Holly.
Listen, Holly, you want to take a walk with me?
What for?
Well. I got some stuff to say. Guess I'm kind of lucky that way. Most people don't have anything on their minds, do they?
Oh, incidentally, my last name is Carruthers. Sounds a little too much like "druthers", doesn't it?
It's okay.
Well, nobody asked me what I thought. They just hung it on me.
You still in school?
Nah, I got me a job.
Doing what?
Well, I don't mind getting up early, so I got a job throwing garbage... I'm not in love with the stuff, okay.
That's my father. I got to run.
Hey, wait a minute. When am I going to see you again?
Well, I know what my daddy's going to say.
What?
Can I be honest?
Sure.
Well, that I shouldn't be seen with anybody that collects garbage.
He'll say that?
Yeah.
Now what's he know about garbage, huh?
Nothing.
There you go.
Well, I mean there's nothing he wants to know about it... I've got to run.
Hi.
Well, stop the world.
Quit my job.
Great.
Just seemed like the right move... Whatcha doing?
Spanish.
How do you say "Quit my Job" in Spanish?
Something mi trabajo.
Yeah, well, I'm going to work as a cowboy now... Or thinking about it. It's a routine, like anything. What do you think?
I don't know.
You want to go for a ride?
Well, I got homework.
Bring it along.
You're a redhead.
I know.
Anybody ever call you "Red"?
Yeah, but I don't like it.
Why not?
Just don't... I've got a headache.
Yeah?
Can I come around and see you tomorrow?
Okay.
What a nice place.
Yeah, the tree makes it nice.
And the flowers... Let's not pick them. They're so nice.
It's your play.
My stomach's growling.
There's an old Fudgesicle over there. You want it?
No.
Somebody else is going to get it.
I don't care.
Kids eat that kind of stuff in Korea.
Did it go the way it 'uz supposed to?
Yeah.
Is that all there is to it?
Yeah.
Gosh, what was everybody talking about?
Don't ask me.
You know what I think?
What?
That we should crunch our hands with this stone. That way we'd never forget what happened today.
But it would hurt.
Well, that's the point, stupid.
Don't call me stupid.
Okay, but I'm going to keep it for a souvenir...
I came in the front.
How bad off is he?
I can look and see.
We better call the doctor... Listen. I'll say how it happened, part I saw.
Well... I don't think that'd work.
Are you sure?
You don't believe me, see for yourself.
Listen, maybe we ought to tell somebody about this.
You said that once already... Too late now.
Why?
They're not going to listen to me. You either. Are you kidding?
Suppose the neighbors heard the noise?
Wouldn't be funny... Listen, I'll be back in a while.
How you doing?
I'm fine. Kind of tired.
Yeah, me too.
"The KonTiki in motion was a little different from what it usually was in such conditions. We had become sensitive to changes in the rhythm of the logs. I thought at once of suction from the coast, which was drawing near, and was continually out on the deck and up the mast..."
He was nervous.
I found a lid. It was laying on the ground over there.
Put that down. It's dirty.
Look at all this junk.
How's he doing?
I got him in the stomach.
Is he upset?
He didn't say anything to me about it.
Whatcha looking in there for? We can't afford any of that.
Just looking.
Think I got 'em?
I don't know.
Well, I'm not going down there and look.
What'd you put him in there for?
Just to keep him out of the sun.
You tired?
Yeah.
Yeah, you look tired... Listen, honey. when all this is over, I'm going to sit down and buy you a big, thick steak.
I don't want a steak.
Well, we'll see about that... Hey, lookie.
Later we found out she was deaf and we hadn't even known it.
Excuse me.
Hey, why're you always walking ahead of me?
Well, why you always walking behind me?
Don't.
Anybody ever done that to you before?
No.
Positive?
Yes.
Guess there's no way I'll ever know. For sure.
I'd like to get out of here.
Soon as I start the car... and fix my hat.
"Rumor: Pat Boone is seriously considering giving up his career so he can return to school fulltime and complete his education. Fact: Pat has told intimates that so long as things are going well for his career, it's the education that will have to take the back seat."
I don't blame him.
"Rumor: Frank Sinatra and Rita Hayworth are in love... Fact: True, but not with each other."
That's Montana over there.
I never been to Montana... Acquaintance of mine has, but I hadn't... Never had any reason to.
Why not? I mean, I'm having fun... At least I'm not bitching.
Well, I feel kind of like an animal living out here. I mean, there's no place to bathe and... no place to get anything good to eat.
Well, I'll catch you a big trout. Soon as we get to the mountains.
Everybody loves trout.
I'm serious.
Maybe we should've tried to hop it.
It was going too fast.
I could've pulled the car up on the tracks, slowed it down some.
Yeah, then we'd be stuck here.
Well, maybe we oughta be stuck here. I'm not saying that I know.
Well, maybe the slope here is throwing it off some. We ought to find a more flat place.
How about over here?
Never mind. It doesn't matter... If I'm worth a damn, I'll pick the right direction. And if I'm not, well, I don't care. See what I mean?
No.
Well, I shouldn't expect miracles, should I?
What?
Nothing... I was just running off at the mouth... as usual.
I'm sorry. I wasn't listening.
You know... they'd probably ask to see your driver's license before they hired you.
Well. I'm not going to let that stop me.
You smoke Pall Mall?
Yeah.
Boy. I had a feeling today was going to be the day... Helicopter.
Yeah.
He's not coming to take us for a ride, either. Come on, let's make a run for the car.
Have you got a better idea?
I just don't want to go.
What?
Course it's too bad about your dad.
Yeah.
We're going to have to sit down, and talk about that sometime.
What's going to happen to Jack and me?
You have to ask Kit. He says frog, I jump.
Okay.
What's your friend's name?
Jack.
You love him?
I don't know.
I've got to stick by Kit... He feels trapped.
Yeah. I can imagine.
Well, I've felt that way, hadn't you?
Sure is pretty.
What'd you come out here for?
I wasn't aware there was any law against it.
You know, before I met her, nobody could ask me how I was doing with my girl. Matter of fact, I didn't really have one.
Is that right?
Yeah.
Listen. I got a lot of respect for her, sir. That's about as good a one as I know to tell you.
Well, it's not good enough. Just what do you think would happen to her if she stuck around with you, Kit? Guy like you.
She'd get along okay. And if she didn't, well, she could take off, just take off, I wouldn't mind... I'd always tell people I deserved it.
Hi.
What're you doing?
I've got a gun here, sir. It's always a good idea to have one around.
What do you think you're doing? Go on, get out of here.
Well, I got it all planned... and I'm taking Holly off with me.
What for?
For coming onto my property... With a gun.
No, you're not either.
Yeah? Why not?
Cause I can't allow it.
Oh yeah?
Long as my ammo held out... Right there's where you caught me.
We did it, Ray.
You better not leave that Cadillac sitting out here.
Say, what kind of rifle was that you were shooting at me?
Thirty aught six.
You ever had to open it up like that before?
Nope.
Kit... Kit, I've got a question for you.
Mmmmm.
You like people?
They're okay.
Then why'd you do it?
I don't know. Always wanted to be a criminal, I guess. Just not this big a one... Takes all kinds though.
Hey, listen, Tom, I don't mean to tell you how to run your show here but these cuffs are pinching. What do you say now?
I need to get your signature on some papers here, Kit.
Well, I've got to read them first. Suppose I could get a Coke while I do?
Sure thing. Come on.
Holly's over here, Kit, if you want to see her.
Sure.
Well, Kit...
Tom...
Good luck to you.
Thanks.
I mean it.
I know you do. Good luck to you, too.
You ever held another job before?
I used to throw trash for the City.
You lost that one?
Wouldn't be here if I hadn't.
What kind of work do you think you would be qualified for?
I can't think of anything at the moment... I'd like you to write me out a slip, though, proving I came down here.
Don't you ever get bored around here?
Sometimes. The other day, though, an old boy was plowing in the field over there, found some old Spanish coins.
What'd they look like?
Kind of round, like so... Gold. I'll show you if you want.
That your spider in there? In that bottle?
Yeah.
What do you feed him?
Oh, flies... grasshoppers when I can catch 'em.
Does he bite?
He never bit me.
Catch!
What do you mean?
How you doing, Cato?
Not bad.
What you been doing?
Running this place for a fella in town. Nothing much to speak of.
Well, I don't notice us hustling trash, either.
Where'd you get them antlers?
They come with the house.
Yeah, I guess.
She plays the clarinet, too.
That's what he told you, huh?
No, he showed me one.
Kit... Maybe I'd better get a shovel.
Okay.
I'll catch up with you.
Okay.
Hi. where's Cato?
Well, he's gone.
Gone?... Where?
He said not to tell.
Oh yeah?
Yeah, he said for you to give us a lift into town. You're the ones with the Studebaker, aren't you?
No... You go in there, I'll have to kill you.
What's going on?
Can't afford to take chances.
Nah, skip that... I'm going to have to keep an eye on you, though.
Okay.
You don't mind?
You promise to stay down there for an hour?
Yeah.
You expect me to believe that?
...He just lets himself get pushed around all the time! People walk all over him and he never fights back, never stands up for himself.
No self confidence, I guess... At least you don't take after him.
Yeah... Jesus! I wonder how he ever got up enough nerve to marry my mom.
Can you imagine your parents in bed together?
No way!
Me neither. I've always wondered whether they slept together before they got married. You think yours did?
Hell no! The way my mom carries on about sex  you even mention the word and she goes into cardiac arrest. You shoulda seen her face when I told her we were gonna stay up all night Saturday, he added. Always afraid something is going to happen.
Is something going to happen Saturday night?
Suzy!
Hi, Marty!
What did you do to your hair?
What did you do to yours?
Uh, yeah... Gimme a Tab.
What?
A Tab.
Sweet and what? Maybe you'd better pay for this first.
Sure,.
Look, maybe I'd better talk to Dick. Is he around?
Dick? Dick who?
Now who's being stupid? The guy who runs this place.
I run this place!
What happened to Dick Wilson?
Dick Wilson? Dickie Wilson? Dickie Wilson runs this place? That's a laugh!
Professor Brown! It's almost eight thirty  I'm outta here!
Shhhhhhhh!
The power of a million hydrogen bombs! ...and we get twenty four measly volts. It's not fair! I've been working on this power converter since 1949, and you'd think in all that time, I could find the right chemicals that would efficiently convert radiation into electric energy! But no! Thirty three years of dedication and research, and all I've got to show for it is a bootleg video operation!
That reminds me, if we could scrape up enough for a 35 film chain, I've got a connection with a projectionist in a first run house  we could be sellin' new movies on the street before they're even in the theater.
A 35mm film chain... I'll see what I can do....
Did you ever consider that some doors are locked for a reason?
Nope. The way I figure it, doors are made to be opened. See you after school.
Oh  Marty  what time did you say it was?
Eight thirty.
AM or PM?
Pro, the sun's out!
Oh, right, right...
Jeez, for a guy with a ton of clocks, you sure don't pay much attention to time.
Catch you later!
...To be traveled through
But Professor 
Get behind the shield! I'm about to release radiation!
No, Marty. Shemp's molecular structure is completely intact!
Then where the hell is he?
The appropriate question to ask is when the hell is he! You see, Shemp has just become the world's first time traveller. I've sent Shemp into the future  two minutes into the future to be exact.
The future? What are you talking about? Where's Shemp?!
Shemp is right here in this room...two minutes from now, and at exactly 9:02PM, we'll catch up to him.
Now hold on a minute, Professor! Hold the phone. Are you trying to tell me that this  all of this here  that this is  it's a  a 
A time machine! Because of that Coke?!
Precisely!
The plutonium! That's what I came over here for! Professor, where did you get that stuff?
Why?
Exactly two minutes difference... and it's still ticking!
Is Shemp all right?
Of course. Shemp is unaware that anything even happened, other than his stool suddenly falling over. We had to wait two minutes to catch up to him, but for Shemp the trip was instantaneous.
Professor, can this thing send Shemp back in time?
A gold mine?
Sure! Listen  we take the racing results from today's paper...
Marty, that would alter history.
So what? We'd be rich!
Don't you understand? The mere act of sending matter back in time would change the course of events, and changing history is a responsibility that I do not wish to bear.
All I know is you're throwing away an awful lot of money.
The future, Marty, the future is everything! I built this machine to see the future. So I am going to send Shemp twentyfour hours into the future. You can assist me, if you like.
Sure, he agreed quickly.
Professor? Professor Brown?
You know me?
Professor, you time machine works! It works! It sent me back in time! I'm from 1982!
Ssshhhhh!
He will be. Simple inebriation, is all. The young man must have a rather low tolerance for alcohol... something that runs in the family. You see, he's a second cousin of mine on my mother's side. Came quite a distance to visit me, he added. His name's Lewis.
Marty.
Uh, Marty Lewis! I almost didn't recognize him  haven't seen him in years.
Jeez  this is where you used to live, huh? You must have been rich!
Must have been? Used to live? I do live here.
Oh, yeah.
Well, there's a mall here now  I mean, there will be.
A mall?
Yeah, a shopping mall. You know, a shopping mall?
You've convinced me that you must be who you say you are. No living human has ever seen this machine. But why? Why even in my twilight years would I remotely consider sending someone back in time?
You didn't, Professor. It was an accident! You see, what happened 
No! Don't tell me! I don't want to know the future! My knowledge of future events... your mere presence here... could have devastating effects on the course of history. And altering history is a responsibility that I do not wish to bear. My immediate response is to send you back to your own time.
Pardon me?
Oh. That expression probably hasn't been invented yet... I can get behind  I agree with you.
On second thought, there may be some things you'll have to tell me.
The power converter...
Of course! The power converter! It works! Of course, it works... What chemicals do we use?
Well, Professor, are you sure you want me to tell you? You know, changing the course of history and all....
Blast it  no, I suppose you're right.... You do know the proper chemical formula?
How did you know?
Just a guess. I figured kids would still be drinking Coke in 1982.
Professor. Well, not exactly, Professor. You see, we don't point it at the sun.
We don't....
4200 rads... That certainly can't be generated under controlled conditions in this day and age.
That's just great!
You answered the door!
You were ringing the doorbell!
I told you not to interfere with any of the events of this time! Nobody's supposed to see you here! What if I was a mailman? Or a salesman?
What if you lost your keys?
Then I would have figured out to get back in through the events in the natural course of history! Don't you understand? The fabric of history is very delicate. Anything you do could have serious consequences!
Hey, look, gimme a break! All I did was answer the door! How's that gonna change history?
I don't know, but I don't want to take any chances! Now you stay here and don't do anything. Don't answer the door, don't answer the phone, don't go outside. Understand?
Let me put it on a level you can understand. You don't belong here. You don't know anything about this world. You don't know the customs, you don't know how to talk, how to act  you don't even look like you belong here. And if you walked out on the street, you wouldn't get 100 yards without being arrested. Then there would be questions, and where would we come up with the answers?
Okay, Professor, I get where you're coming from. The way I look, the way I'm dressed... I'd stick out like a sore thumb.
An atomic bomb.
Professor, be serious, would you?
I am serious. If we could get you, the time machine, and the power converter in the vicinity of an atomic blast, we could send you back to the future.
You're talking crazy! An atomic blast would melt me and the time machine in a matter of seconds!
You forget  time travel is instantaneous. The time machine would melt, but you would have already travelled through time. Of course, it's a moot point regardless. The only place atomic bombs are detonated is at the Army's Nevada Test Site, and those tests are kept absolutely top secret.
Say, where did this guitar come from?
Oh  that  I found it in the closet.
I don't recall ever seeing it before.
Well, it was there.
Curious... Very curious....
I know.
You did what?!?
Look, it's not a big deal! I can fix it! All I gotta do is get 'em together and make sure my old man asks her out!
You better make sure your old man asks her out, because if he doesn't, they may never have a first date. And if they don't have a first date, they won't have a second date. If they don't have a second date, they won't fall in love. If they don't fall in love, they won't get married, and if they don't get married, you'll never be born!
Where did you get this?
I brought it with me from 1982. It's from my science book.
The test is this Monday! 15 megatons... Let's see, we need 4200 rads... You'd have to be...exactly 800 yards from ground zero... You realize that what we're going to do could be extremely dangerous.
Believe me, Professor, running around on a nuclear test site can't be any more dangerous than what I've been doing.
Your 'mother' wanted me to tell you that she was very impressed by what you did this afternoon, and that if you were interested in going to the dance Saturday, she's available.
But that's impossible!! George asked her out! He had to! I saw him walk her home! Oh, God!
My guess is that she turned him down.
But why? Why would she do that? She's supposed to marry the guy!
Apparently, what has happened is that the maternal instinct has transcended the gap of time and this has caused an alteration in your mother's emotional behavior.
Are you trying to tell me that my mother's got the hots for me?
In a manner of speaking, yes. And because of that, she's no longer interested in your father.
Jesus!
That's all taken care of.
Good. Professor Brown tested the tarp, noting in satisfaction that it was secure. I'll pick you up in front of the school at midnight. Don't be late  we're cutting it close as it is. We've got a long drive ahead of us.
Look. I'm a little worried about this  this whole thing with my mother, he admitted to the Professor. I mean, I don't know if I can do it  I mean, hitting on my own mother, that's pretty heavy.
Nobody said anything about hitting her! You're just going to take a few liberties with her.
That's exactly what I said! I mean, a guy and his mother  that's illegal, isn't it?
Look, Marty, she's not your mother yet. And if you don't go through with this, she may never be. I know it's hard, but there are some things we must do in life that are unpleasant. Some choices must be made that are difficult. Nonetheless, we must make them. Besides, this may be more than a simple question of your own existence, he added. The fate of the entire spacetime continuum may rest on your shoulders . Marty tried to smile at him.
That's just what I needed to hear.
It'll be fine, Marty. You'll be fine. Good luck. He stuck his hand out and Marty shook it. But there was still a question that was nagging at him...
Professor, if something does go wrong tonight... if I don't get my parents back together... when do you think I'd cease to exist?
There's no way of knowing.
Perfect...
It could happen at the moment you arrive back in the future, theoretically, it could happen at the moment of your birth...or conception. Actually, it could happen at any time. It's a question to which I hope we'll never learn the answer.
You didn't?
Nope. My father's never clenched a fist in his entire life!
Curious... Very curious.
It was sure nice of Uncle Sam to put those yardage markers up for us.
We're at one and a half miles, so you're just a little over a mile from where you want to be, Wait until minus 3 minutes before you go  that should give you plenty of time, and it should be close enough to zero hour that they can't do anything to stop you. Park the truck at 800 and get in the refri the time chamber. Just be sure the nose of the truck is pointed at the bomb....the power converter will do the rest.
Thanks for everything, Pro.
Professor Brown grinned. I guess I'll see you in... about 30 years.
Marty, I know I've repeatedly asked you not to tell me anything about the future, but....well, those loud bangs on the tape recorder....are they....
Professor  there are some doors that shouldn't be opened, Marty said softly, without turning around.
What year is this?
1982! March 18, just like we planned! My calculations were absolutely correct! Thirty years! God, I cannot believe it's been thirty years! Sure, it was a long time ago  longest I've ever had to wait for the results of an experiment!
Hop in, Marty, . We've got a long drive ahead of us.
What do you call this?
A car.
You see, I never rebuilt the time machine after it was destroyed in 1952. I decided that experimenting with time and possibly changing history was too risky. Anyway, experiments in time travel were banned in all 87 states after the governor of Cuba caught Dr. Felstien fooling around in the Bermuda Triangle  that was back in '64.
87 states? Time travel bans? What the hell?
But if you didn't rebuild the time machine, how did I go back in time in the first place?
According to your girlfriend, Suzy Parker, you and she were at the movies. You went to the restroom and you never came out. Obviously, you stepped through an interdimensional time warp, created by the original operation of the time machine.
Obviously!
But I told everyone your disappearance was due to a teleportation experiment you were helping me with. So don't mention anything about time travel to anyone.
What theater was I at?
The Orpheum.
Pretty, isn't it?
It's the most beautiful city I've ever seen! What is it?
Good evening, one said. Agents Reese and Foley, from the Nuclear Regulatory Commition. Mind stepping over here?
What's this all about?
What, am I radioactive or something?
No, no, not beyond an acceptable level. Have you been Xrayed recently, Martin?
Been any place unusual in the past twelve hours?
Home, school, here...
Okay, Martin. You have a good evening now.
Yeah, Right.
What?!
Pro! Release the rope!
Operator...
Operator! Listen, this is an emergency! I have to make this call, but I don't have a dime  all I got is a nickel  but you gotta connect me 
Sir, it only costs a nickel.
What?
Local calls cost five cents. What number do you want?
Oh  right! Uh, Madison 3489.
Five cents, please.
I'm sorry, there's no answer.
Operator, what's today's date?
March 11th.
What year?
Nineteen fifty 
You'd like to see a nuclear holocaust?
Not a holocaust 
Mr. McFly here wants to nuke it all, just so he can see it!
You know damn well that's not what I meant.
All I can say is, that's one helluva attitude, Mr. McFly. 'Let's explode a hundred megaton Geothermal nuclear device, just to see it.'
Yeah, explode it up your ass!
Unfortunately, the way things are going, you may get your wish. You may see the entire annhiliation of the world. If not, you'll certainly see the destruction of all out natural resources. We can already see the air we breathe, not to mention the pollution in our rivers and lakes. We'll see all of our oil reserves depleted, in fact, all of our energy sources. Yes, you people have a lot to look forward to  a lot to see.
Hey, Mr. Arky, gimme a break! I'm seventeen years old! I'm not responsible for all these problems!
Yes, that's my name. Who are you, young man? Are you supposed to be here?
Uh  yeah. I'm new here, and I'm supposed to be in this class.
You have a name?
Marty. Marty Lewis.
Who, me?
You're the only Mr. Lewis in this class. If you have something to say, say it so the whole class can hear.
Well, yeah, I was thinking, if cars are gonna be going two or three hundred miles an hour, they're gonna be using an awful lot of gas. Like, what if we run out?
Run out of gas?
Dad, you seen the drill?
What drill?
The drill! The power drill I bought you for Christmas. I was using it last night.
Fine..
Learn anything?
Oh yeah.
Good.
No, Chinese food is fine.
Saturday night's the 'Springtime in Paris' dance. I'm taking Suzy Parker.
The sunrise? What for?
Jeez, what do you think? To see it!
You've gotta ask her to the dance!
Not now....
George, she's beautiful, right? She's nice, she's decent, she's the kind of girl you'd like to marry, right? And there's nothing in the world you'd like more than to take her to that dance, right?
Well... yeah...
Okay, then!
What do I say?
Say what you were supposed to say in the cafeteria.
Oh, no! That was for the cafeteria! This is different!
Christ, it's a miracle I was even born!
Huh?
Nothing. Look, I'll write it down for you, okay?
What is that? A pencil that writes in ink?
It was Marty's turn to be confused. Huh?
Lemme see that.
'Bike fine point?'
Bic... It's a Bic pen.
I don't want to hit you in the stomach!
You're not gonna hurt me. Just hit me in the stomach.
Look, Marty, I'm just not a fighter...
How many times do I have to explain it to you?... We know you're not a fighter. You know it, I know it... but she doesn't know it. That's why we gotta make you look like a fighter, somebody who'll stand up for her, somebody who isn't chicken. And you're not gonna look like a fighter if you can't hit me in the stomach.
But I've never picked a fight in my entire life!
You're not picking a fight, you're coming to her rescue. Maybe we'd better go over the plan again. Where are you gonna be at 8:55?
I'm going to be at the dance.
And where am I gonna be?
In the parking lot, with her.
Okay. So right around 9:00 she's gonna get very angry with me 
Why?
Why what?
Why is she gonna get angry with you?
You mean, you're gonna 
George it's not your concern. Don't worry about it. Just remember that at 9:00, you'll be strolling through the parking lot and you'll see us  struggling in the car, you'll run over, open the door and say....?
Your line, George!
Oh. Uh... 'Hey, you! Get your damn hands off her!' George paused. You really think I should swear?
Yes, definitely, god dammit George, swear. Then you hit me in the stomach, I go down for the count, and you and Eileen life happily ever after. Now, hit me in the stomach.
Maybe if I used my left....
No, George, just concentrate on the anger. Anger.
Now, George! Dinner's ready now!
Coming, Eileen...
By the way, that reminds me... Saturday night we're taking Grandma Stella out for Chinese food.
Eileen, Chinese food again?
George, if you don't want Chinese food, pick a place you want to go and make a reservation.
Is that what you were going to ask me, George? To go to the dance?
No!
Uh, hi, Eileen.
How are you?
Oh  I'm all right. Say, listen, about this dance Saturday night 
I've been calling you for five minutes! Didn't you hear me?
I was practicing. I've got an audition next week  I gotta practice. How am I gonna get famous if I don't practice?
How was school today?
Fine.
Learn anything?
Oh yeah.
That's good.
You mean you're going to stay up all night?
Mom, how else are we gonna see the sunrise?
I don't think I like the idea of you staying out all night with a girl!
How old are you?
Seventeen.
Here's your jacket!
Uh, thanks...
It's polyester.
Polywhat?
Huh?
Have we ever met before?
Hi, Marty.
Uh, hi....
You remember me...?
How could I forget? Oh, sure, I remember you.
Well, I was on my way to school, and I just wanted to stop by and see if you were feeling okay. You seemed like you were in pretty bad shape the other night.
Oh, I'm feeling much better now.
Then you'll be going to school here....?
School? I never thought of school! If I went to school I could blend in with everybody else, couldn't I?
What time does school start around here?
Nine o' clock. Oh, I'm late! Maybe I'll see you later.
Yeah. Maybe so.
George! He's supposed to ask you to the dance!
But he didn't ask me.
But he does! Don't you see?
He comes out of the cafeteria line, he's nervous, he spills his corn, and he asks you to the dance!
Marty, you haven't been listening. Nobody's asked me to the dance...yet.
Hi, Marty!
Listen, Professor Brown told me you called last night and gave me your message...
Are you all right, Marty? You seem a little...nervous.
Oh, no, I'm fine...fine.
I'm usually nervous myself on first dates...but not tonight. It's funny, but somehow, I feel like....like I know you.
Uh, yeah, well, believe me, I sure feel like I know you!
Well, Eileen...jeez, that's hard for me to say. Have you ever been in a situation where  well  you know you have to act a certain way, but when you get there, you don't know if you can go through with it?
You mean like how you're supposed to act with someone on a first date?
I think I know exactly what you mean.
You do?
Morning Dick.
Marty. What's for breakfast?
Gimme some chili, fries, and a Tab.
Hot tip, Rubber Biscuit in the third race at Arlington.
Dick, what's with those guys out there in the gutter?
Third time they've been out there this week.
What's N.R.C.?
I don't know. National Cash Register?
This... is the number one single?
Yes, sir!
I don't get it. How come there's no rock 'n roll?
I beg your pardon?
This is 1952....?
Uh, yes, sir...
And you never heard of rock 'n roll?
No....
Well, well, he smirked when Marty opened the door. If it isn't the neighborhood bootlegger, Al Capone McFly?
What do you want, Biff?
Show me some respect, you little asshole. It's Special Officer Tannen to you.
The day I show respect to Biff Tannen will be the day I win a million dollars... What's the matter, Biff, they're not showing you any respect down at the golf course? Don't they realize what a tough job it is keeping the criminal element away from the country club?
Listen you little Asshole, I oughta 
What do you want, Biff?
Where's your old man?
Am I at the same angle to you and the basket as before?
Yeah.
Are you?
So what did we just make?
A similar triangle?
What else? What kind of triangle has three sides of different lengths.
Scalene?
Okay. Make me an isosceles.
Like you'd make it to June. Even cutting half your classes, you have a B average.
I'm no dummy.
That's right. You just act like one.
Now I can do what I want.
That's right. The world is your oyster.
Finding the real world to your liking, Mr. Carter?
I want to come back.
You could grace our hallowed halls again, if, while you're here, you make a sincere effort to be part of our little school community 
I'd do that 
How would you do that, Mr. Carter?
Shall I give you a few ideas?
Please.
Besides attending all your regular classes, I'd like you to help our janitorial staff after school 
For pay?
For the inner satisfaction it will bring. Saturday mornings, I'd like you to tutor disadvantaged students at our sister school 
I'm as underprivileged as they are 
Finally, I'd like you to join the drama club. Rehearsals are Tuesday and Thursday evenings.
I'd work backstage or something?
Or something. They're doing a play for the holidays.
When do I get time for me?
You don't. That's the point.
Landon, none of us faculty see you the way you see yourself. Some of us remember how your father 
Then you remember more than I do.
No way. No thanks. I can't do it 
 You can and you will, Mr. Carter.
For Jefferson High. For books.
Where did you get  ?
It's mine to give. I didn't steal it.
I didn't say you did.
Your grades for fall semester. They're  good.
You came here to give me my report card?
I've seen students with records like yours go to J.C. for a couple of years, then transfer to a good college.
I'd gladly write you a letter of recommendation.
Thank you.
You're welcome.
You're in the play?
Lead man.
Apropos of nothing... so. So so so so 
Let's get something straight. You don't know me. I don't know you. But I know what you're about. Keep your distance from this house  and from Jamie.
Reverend Sullivan. Can I ask you something?
Does it have to do with Jamie?
Yes, sir.
I'd like to take Jamie to dinner on New Year's Eve.
That won't be possible.
I care for her.
I don't want to see her hurt.
This week.
Ever again.
Landon. You're not the quiet type.
No.
So talk to us about something.
Like what, sir?
You decide.
How about your family?
Okay. Sure. My grandfather. When he was seven, he shook the hand of an old guy, a war vet or something, who had once shaken President Lincoln's hand. Made a big impression on him.
We didn't tell him any different for years 
Your parents are divorced?
Since I was five. My mom's a cocktail waitress.
How do you  the two of you  get by?
Materially or spiritually?
Either. Both.
It's her decision and she's decided not to tell people  at least for now.
How  how long does she have?
Her doctors have. Jamie and I. We're still praying for a miracle.
Praying.
Landon. We've lived with this for over a year now and 
If there is a God, how could he let this happen??!!
Landon. You go on home.
I'm not tired.
I need to be with her.
I've almost finished the rocker. Did she order mirrors?
In there.
You have materials for the side bearings?
I'm using an old phonographic turntable.
For the focuser?
You know about this stuff?
I helped Jamie with the first one.
I thought she built it herself.
She did. But hardly anyone does anything truly alone.
You've been well?
Yes. You?
Getting by.
You're marrying again.
Yes.
Jamie wanted that. She told me.
I'm sorry she never got her miracle.
She did. It was you.
The Carter boy. Tell me about him.
He wants help with his lines 
By accident 
Jamie, he's careless. Reckless. Is this really the best time to be making a new friend...?
I'm supposed to always be alone?
I don't want you to see him outside school activities.
Fine. But I need to start deciding how to spend my time and my life.
I'm sorry your mother isn't here to help you become a woman.
Dad, I've become a woman without her. Just not a pretty one.
What's Landon Carter up to?
Up to?
I thought we had rid ourselves of his disagreeable companionship.
Did you give him a gift?
No.
I saw the way he looked at you. The way he kissed you.
It was a play.
Boys like him have  expectations.
I have expectations, too.
I'm asking how much.
Dad 
It's time to tell him. It would be the right thing.
Maybe. But that's not the real reason. You think if I tell, he'll disappear and that's what you want! Me all to yourself!
No. I want what's best for you.
This  him  Landon  is what's best for me!
No you didn't. But he did change. Just not enough.
Jamie, you're not mad at me. You're mad at Landon 
I am mad at you! And at Landon! And the universe! And God! I don't even know where to put all my anger.
That's normal. God accepts your anger. He won't punish you.
By making me ill, he is punishing me! I just don't know what for.
When Mom died you told me God wanted her more, loved her more 
I was wrong. Nobody could have wanted or loved your mother more than we did. Not even God.
He goes to my father's church. He could've died 
 This your idea of small talk?
I don't make small talk 
 Obviously.
Because, growing up, books were my world.
Were?
You don't know me.
Your book and your brown sweater and your hair. What's more to know  ?
 I wear the sweater because I'm cold. I read because no one talks to me. My hair is my hair. What is it exactly that's bothering you?
You mean care what you say? I'm worrying about other things.
Like what? The moons of Jupiter?
Can't you have a normal conversation?
I don't want to have any conversation.
Good, cuz talking to you is like trying to explain red to a blind person.
'I hope your dreams come true.'
'They won't.'
'Believe in yourself and they will. Let me ask you, Lizzie. Look in the mirror? Are you pretty ?'
'Is it really me?'
'Yes. You'reyou're bb beautiful.'
You're like this fly, buzzing buzzing everywhere 
 This play means a lot to me.
This play  ?
 I know you don't suck at acting.
That's deep 
 Your act only works with an audience.
My act?!
I know you don't want help.
Then we both know. I'll point. You drive. Faster.
Yeah.
Why?
Because that's where the fire is?
Fire is like a living thing. Wild. Unpredictable.
Like me.
No. Not like you.
What the  ?!
So you agree you need help?
What's with the friggin numbers?
28 is do something illegal. 42 is befriend an enemy.
I'm an enemy?
Kinda. Yeah.
The reason I got the part... I'm a little like Lizzie. Except I don't worry about some man rescuing me.
Good thing.
You got some kind of list?
Are you asking to mock me or do you really want to know?
Maybe a little of both.
I'll take a chance.
Go for it.
It's like a todo list, but for my life.
So what else is on this list?
It's private.
You want to tell me...
Get very wasted. Lose your virginity 
Spend a year in the Peace Corps. Make a medical discovery 
Ambitious.
Like you'd know.
I do know. Be two places at once... learn to hit a baseball or turn a cartwheel... eat breakfast with chopsticks...
No problem 
And you have to meet my father.
I'll get something for us to drink 
Don't bother!
I know. Don't say anything.
He's a softy. Got him wrapped around my finger.
You think so.
Know so.
Because I try to be nice to people?
Yeah. Maybe. I dunno.
Do you think I'm strange?
Cuz it's dark and quiet and you can see into another world.
The world of the dead?
Could be...
What is that?
That is my telescope.
Saturn. Beautiful.
Before Voyager we expected maybe a dozen rings 
But there are thousands of them, made of floating ice 
Maybe debris from a moon that broke apart.
Or building blocks for a world that never formed.
Looking for intelligent life?
Looking for something  someone.
Do you believe you'll see your mother again?
I hope so. I think maybe she sees me now.
I'm building a larger one to see the nucleus of Haley's Comet 
The dirty snowball at its core.
Yeah. I'm probably not going to be around next time it comes.
In 76 years, me neither.
You're really into God, right?
In ten words or less?
Yeah.
My relationship with God is my own.
But you think about Him  It  Her.
Don't you?
Like in a church painting. I see this giant hovering over the ground. He's wearing a robe, and has long flowing hair, and he's pointing his finger at something.
Do you ever wonder why things happen the way they do?
No.
I know there's a plan for everyone, but sometimes I don't understand what the message is  or what the point is.
There is no point. You live. You die. The end.
You have to believe to have faith.
You don't believe in anything?
The Bible. Why should I read a bunch of dumb stories about some ancient guy who supposedly worked miracles.
Interpreted by another guy like my father.
Your father doesn't like me.
He doesn't trust you.
Sometimes I don't even trust me.
The play's going to be really good.
I'm really glad you think so.
You're not in a very good mood.
You don't miss a thing.
The play's in a couple of weeks.
Yes. And?
Oh. Just not at school...
Yeah 
Or anywhere where people might see us.
Belinda's a very jealous person.
That would be the reason.
So it's like you want to be secret friends.
That's it! Exactly! You're reading my mind 
Then maybe you can read mine.
He okay?
Healthy as can be.
You were great the other night.
Thank you. So were you.
I haven't been nice to you.
You're hardly nice to anyone.
People can see.
And that would ruin your reputation how?
Maybe you inspire me.
That sounds like horseshit.
All of it.
It's not.
Prove it.
Okay. Maybe some of that is true 
You don't know the first thing about being someone's friend 
I don't want to be just your friend 
You don't know what you want 
You don't either. Take a look at yourself. Maybe you're scared that someone might actually like you 
And why would that scare me?
Because then you couldn't hide behind your books and your telescope and your sweater and your God.
It's a start.
Yeah, with a finish in about a decade.
So you're talking to me?
When I have something to say.
What does that mean?!
It means you can do anything.
Hey.
I heard what you did. Thank you.
She great or what?
Why are you doing all this? To impress me?
No. But are you  impressed?
Like fire.
What?
You.
Yes. But not as a date date.
Why not?
I'm not allowed to date.
I can't believe you asked my father's permission.
I wanted this to be a date.
Is there a rush?
I have to get you home by one.
It's only 7:30.
We're going somewhere. After. And no. I didn't ask your father.
Your turn.
No.
I know you want to.
Before we do this.
We're doing something  ?
Before we do this, I just want to say that a good life's gotta be about more than achieving stuff  like on your list.
It's about working with what you already have  right now  at your fingertips  you know, spontaneously.
What are you talking about?
Excuse me?
Fun.
The cells in our bodies are always changing. In six or seven years all your cells have changed. You could be like a completely new person from the inside out.
That what's happening to you, only faster?
Stand right here.
Where?
You're acting like a crazy person.
You're straddling the state line. You're in two places at once.
It's places like this that make me certain there's a God.
You're sometimes not sure?
I'm sure. Pretty sure.
We can measure wind.
Uncertainty makes you uncomfortable.
What do you actually know with religion?
Wonder. Beauty. Joy. Love.
I don't understand...
Maybe you're not supposed to.
I might do it wrong.
Not possible.
You make me feel...
Loved?
That. And less strange.
Assholes. This happen to you?
Twice a year.
What's wr?
The Challenger exploded. Principal Kelly's about to make an announcement.
Come on.
Where?
Away from here.
How do you know this place?
Before the divorce. My father used to take me here. Fire spotting was his summer job.
From here he proved to me the earth isn't flat. On rainy days, we'd be above the clouds.
What would you do up here?
Look. Talk. Not talk.
What'd you tell your father?
The truth. I just left you out of it.
When did you build this?
I was twelve.
It's an altazimuth design with one parabolic mirror and one secondary flat one.
Where's the one you're building?
In my back yard. I lied before. It's hardly started. But when it's done, it will have twice the power of this one 
So what do you want to see?
Mars.
Mars doesn't rise until 2:30
A Thermos of hot coffee. A blanket. Socks.
You planned this 
Hoped for it.
Are you trying to seduce me?
No. Why? Are you seducible?
Ergo?
What about your father?
I'm always home by midnight and he's always asleep.
What's the best thing I can see tonight?
Me.
Can you locate XXI5639I?
Sure.
Here. Why am I looking at this star?
Because I had it named for you. I know it's not an official designation 
From citizen high to citizen low.
I don't care.
Care, but just don't let it get to you. It gives them power.
That what you do?
Yes. I try to keep my power.
One of your secrets.
Yes, one of many.
You're worried about your college applications.
I'm not applying to college.
You're going to take a year off? Join the Peace Corps  ?
No.
What are you going to  ?
Pull over.
Where? Why?
Jamie 
I'm sick.
Then I'll take you home. You'll feel better tomorrow.
Why didn't you tell me?
The doctors said to do everything the same as long as possible. I didn't want anyone being  weird around me.
I'm so sorry. I'm a coward 
I should have told you sooner 
I made you do too many things, kept you up all night 
No. The drugs just stopped working. If anything, doing things I love kept me healthy longer.
Are you frightened?
All the time. I feel like I have no one.
Help me live until I die?
I will.
Nope.
Anything you want.
Nothing.
Slim Jim? Apple? Yogurt? You like yogurt.
I used to like yogurt.
What are you thinking?
That I want you to take me home.
Now? We just 
I don't want to come here anymore.
I've talked to your father.
That's what I mean.
Whatever you need. Whatever Jamie needs. I'm here. I could start by driving her to school 
I'm not going back to school.
You know how to waltz??
I was going to fake it.
How you doing?
Tired.
'What is a friend? A single soul dwelling in two bodies.' Aristotle.
Lower. Same page.
'Find out who you are and do it on purpose.' Dolly Parton.
'Love is always patient and kind. It is never boastful or conceited  '
That was read at my parents' wedding.
How're you doing?
Better. I was really angry.
It's gone now.
Because you have hope that you'll get better?
No. Maybe I believe God has a bigger dream for me than I had for myself. Maybe I believe the journey, the big adventure, never ends...
I'll talk to your father.
It's not that simple. It costs money to do this at home.
Can I  go out?
You'll be fine for a few minutes.
Will you do something for me?
Landon. I can't even do for myself.
But if you could, you would?
Yes.
Who are you?
Landon Carter. I was driving the car that 
You.
Me.
I'm very sorry 
What kind of a man are you, son?
Get yourself a glass.
No. Thanks. Gotta keep my wits for the drive home.
Where is he? He's supposed to be here.
I need to whizz.
I'm thinking.
No thinking. The doctor only gives you three seconds to decide 
Hypotheticals 
I'm just wondering 
Don't call him a dipshit.
You do 
And you don't. What's she doing in there?
The address?!
York Ave.
Deranged.
Demented.
She's like some Puritan.
She's not. She's got her own ideas.
Belinda's telling everyone that kiss was real.
It was.
And that you're scamming on Jamie Sullivan.
Scamming's a strong word.
Landon!
Later.
Say nothing. Nothing 'bout her.
No. Hey. We're sorry, man!
What if they expel you?
Kelly wouldn't do that.
Why not?
Cuz nothing happened at school.
I'm not hanging. I'm fixing my car 
You don't need a car you can't drive for a month. Go see Marvin.
'Bout what?
About a job.
Your father dropped off an extra check.
I don't want his money.
It could help with a new car 
 I like the car I have.
Out with Belinda?
That's over. Way over.
I can't know things if you don't tell me.
You saw him?
We talked. He wanted to get a bite  after. I said no.
After he moved out, I invited him to every practice, every game, every parentteacher conference you ever had. He didn't show, not once.
He wants to show now.
You going to let him? You going to reward him by being the son he was never man enough to be a father to?
You look nice. I should have dressed.
You're fine like that, Mom.
There's hot cider in the kitchen.
Thanks.
I haven't seen Clay or Eric lately.
Me neither.
To see your father?
No. I won't be long.
A late night or an early morning?
Late night. You?
Were you with Jamie?
Yeah.
You sleeping with her?
Honey, some of this is... farfetched. You take after me. People skills and common sense. Good dependable qualities.
I could take after Dad, too.
You do. You're handsome and charming.
I meant he's a doctor.
That's eight years of school and training  after college. And all that doesn't necessarily make you a better human being.
I could do it if I tried. Even Kelly thinks so.
That'd be something.
But if it doesn't happen, grab for something within reach. Life's tough enough without causing yourself disappointment 
Whatever my life is, I'm going to be friggin' sure I'm never disappointed 
Have I told you how proud I am of you  ?
Mom, great. But what I want is for me to be proud of me.
I'm sorry. I didn't know.
I didn't know either.
I told him to leave me alone.
Landon 
It was the only thing I've ever asked him!
I have no idea what to say. How to act. What if I do the wrong thing?
Be yourself and I don't think there is a wrong thing. Let Jamie take the lead. She'll let you know what she needs.
What are you doing here?
He wants to talk to you.
Now it's okay?
Landon. You have two parents. We're both here for you even 
Everything's being done but it's not enough. I have to find something  more.
Landon, honey. There's nothing more.
So go dance.
With you.
I. Don't. Dance.
She's coming over here...
Heart be still.
That's one girl who can't take a hint.
Because she doesn't know what a hint is.
She asleep?
I'll tell her you were here.
Pictures from the play. Jamie looks pretty 
I'm sorry about how we 
No. You're with who you should be. It's like she chose you.
And I have no idea why.
I do.
Why are there still such headlines?
This press we cannot control. Americans, I think.
You know everyone can be controlled Pavel. Where are you storing the personnel files?
In a building belonging to the University in the Old Town.
You are quite sure it's secure?
The files are in a sealed room and the University are under strict orders to stay away.
The storage facility will be ready within a week, I'll call you then.
You are responsible...What has happened?
We're not sure...
What are you an idiot!
The building has been occupied and the locks have been changed.
The University cannot do this. Is the room safe?
Yes, I think so, it is still barred, but it is not the University who are in the building.
So, who is in the building?
Some Americans?
Have you lost all control of this city?
I don't understand it, there were a lot of people there last night, many Americans, I believe we should move carefully.
I don't think you realise what will happen if those files are made public. The lives of thousands of officers depend on the secrecy of those records, including your own now.
It was crazy not to have destroyed them
That was not my decision, I can only guess that one day we will again be active and our honour restored. In the meantime no one else must know those files exist. Secure the building and I will arrange alternative safe storage immediately.
And what of these foreigners?
I don't care about Americans. Arrest them all if you have to, but keep those records secret.
And there has been enquiries from the American Embassy maybe they are involved?
All the more reason to eliminate him.
What if his accomplices have made copies?
It was all on a Russian format, I don't think that would be so easy; we must take that chance.
Delay Mr Greenwell's departure until the disks have been located and you have notified me. Then, have one of your officers drive him home  I'll see to the rest.
Very well.
Subtitles) You have made many mistakes Pavel, let there be no more, for your sake.
When the hell did you write that?
Just yesterday.
Shit Honey, you could've told me. People might think it's about us!
Maybe it is!
All I'm saying Honey is run the thing past me for Christ's sake before you get up and broadcast the crap.
Oh that's it? Everything I do is crap!
I decided to help out at the Asylum.
See you brought one of the patients with you too.
Josh!
Well come on, sit down.
Yeah, so I hear. Don't you think you should go get changed?
Later.
Okay honey, but don't be long. I got plans.
I think we should be going honey.
What for?
Well, for a start, you've got to get cleaned up.
Why?
I don't want to go.
It's time to go home, Holly.
Come on Holly!
Leave me, just leave me alone Josh.
That's my bag.
Go to hell!
It's more than what you're worth.
You bastard!
Yeah and you're a slut, so what?
Shall I look after the rest?
Don't you dare, I'll be back!
Honey what a pleasant surprise, sorry to keep you waiting.
Josh, I have to speak you, it's urgent.
Of course Darling, you'd like to apologise?
Can we talk in your office?
So, what have you got to say for yourself? Was he good in bed?
Josh, I need your help. Doug's been arrested, he's in big trouble. I thought maybe your father and the Embassy might be able to do something.
You really are a piece of work, you know that? You walk out on me and my family for some worthless bum and you expect us to help him when he screws up.
Will you come home and forget all about him?
Yes, if you can get him free.
Alright, I'll see to it and things'll be just as they were, okay?
Hey Doug, where you been?
Working....Under cover.
No, just a drill.
A drill, what are you up to?
Nothing. I've got to put up some kitchen shelves that's all. You've got one haven't you?
Yeah.
And a fifty foot extension lead?
You don't have fifty foot of apartment!
Come on, don't me give a hard time. I'm just trying to make the place look nice for Katka.
Sure!
Give me a break, will you. How often do I ask you for something?
Okay, Okay, but I want it right back. It belongs to my father.
No problem, is it at your place?
Yeah.
Great, let's break for lunch and I'll buy you a beer on the way.
But I have to finish this....
Come on, that shit can wait.
So, he didn't fire you?
No way, he even gave me back pay.
This is your doing?
Yes, they had nothing to do with it.
And you broke into that room?
That's right.
You will wish you hadn't.
Fuck you!
Why did you break into that particular building?
It was the biggest I could find.
What was the real purpose behind this venture?
A kind of freedom.
Either you're a liar or you are a fool.
Enjoying our hospitality?
No!
We'll have to see what more we can do for you, while you are still our guest.
Thanks, but I don't intend to stay.
Really!
I lied to you, I didn't destroy the floppy disks.
Good try Mr. Greenwell but a little late. We have analyzed the contents of that drum, the remains of the disks are there, just as you said.
Not all of them!
You are playing a very dangerous game, I suggest you make it easy on yourself and tell me where they are.
I didn't get to see what's on the disks but I can guess. Do you want to hear my terms or not.
What is it you want?
First, I want to walk free with a letter, in English, from the Prosecutor General dropping all charges. Second, I want two first class tickets to London leaving tonight and three thousand crowns in a stamped envelope. Lastly, all actions against the students are to be stopped!
I'm not sure it's possible.
The choice is yours, it's not negotiable.
And the students?
I have the Director's word, there will be no action against them. You may go once we have the disks.
How do I know this isn't a trap?
You have the letter and my word, if you wish you may wait upstairs....Now, where are the disks?
I'll need to make a phone call.
You may use my office.
Would you like your things now?
Yeah!
Release Mr Greenwell's possessions.
Central station, locker number 139  combination JFK.
Good, wait here, it will not take long and then you may go.
We had a deal!
Yes, you are free to go, Karel here will drive you home.
That's okay I like the metro, it's only a couple of stops from here.
I insist, it is the least we can do.
No act of love but willing violence demanded by one and begged by the other. As life turned to fantasy and reality to ecstasy a need, so deep no light could reach, surfaced like a nocturnal creature unearthed for momentary and glorious display. Left alone in a rosetinted afterglow dimming fast she tasted the moisture of her body and wondered why light came to day and such desires to her paleskin body.
Well she sure isn't normal.
I'll put one on the noticeboard too.
Am I invited?
Sure as long as you don't bring that prick Josh. Thanks Lawrence.
I thought I'd help out.
We don't need you.
That's not what you said last night. And, I didn't bring that "prick" Josh.
Alright, go help Chris shovel up the last of the crap.
Thanks.
Seems a shame!
The way I look at it, I've carried the camel to water and stuffed it's head under  if it doesn't drink now, we might as well shoot the thing and call it a day.
Why are you doing all this, what for?
Well, I've failed at everything else I've done and I can't hack it as a journalist, even for the Bugler.
What's the Bugler?
It's a student magazine networked through Eastern Europe and funded by Republican dogooders back in the States.
I figured you more as a Socialist?
I moving more to Communism now it's dying out.
A champion of lost causes huh?
No, I'm just running scared, same as everyone else.
We_re not all running away
I know, some are trapped, usually by money.
Shall I wash these out?
Yeah, we'd better keep them for now, I'll try and get some glasses for tomorrow night.
Is it dry?
Yeah seems okay.
What would you like, beer?
No, just a coffee.
One beer, one coffee, thanks.
I'd better get you to a hospital.
I'll be okay, just get me home.
It's all my fault, I'm so sorry Doug.
I had it coming from someone.
Are you sure I shouldn't get a doctor.
Who you saving the dishes for?
Guests.
Don't you have a girlfriend?
Sometimes.
I'd better get going, do you need a hand to get into bed?
Sure!
Did you take your things over to my place?
Uhhuh!
Run into Josh?
Yeah, but it was okay.
How did he look?
Better than you.
Hmm, I still owe him.
Why don't we both forget about him?
Alright!
Head the flyers up with Asylum and then put Debut of....Psychosis, Theatre experimental. That'll cover us if it flops. On the bottom put seek Asylum where the stars shine on Betlemska.
Cool!
Weren't you going to get some glasses?
Oh shit, yeah. Can you lend some more money?
Where did you steal the car?
It's Josh's.
Cool....Either of you know the way to Krakow?
Any chance of getting me out on bail?
What is bail?
Will they free me?
I don't know  maybe they are talking about it now. Mr Vitovetch is a good friend of the Judge.
Will this thing take long?
No, it should be over soon.
You mean it's started?
Of course, you can see that lady over there, she is recording everything.
How do I know what's being said?
I will tell you  within a week I will have the transcript and we can go through it.
You mean you don't know, Henry! We got a bunch of anarchists, controlling a sixlevel block of luxury apartments down on Janovska street here in the Old Town, and you don't know about it?
Ah, so what?
That's only the half of it. I've heard a rumour they're taking over a theatre to use for alternative arts; you know what that means?
Henry, these guys already push most of the drugs in this town and now they want to move into pornography, right? Believe me, it won't stop there either, next it'll be a church and pretty soon they'll have their own department store or something...... Henry, we've got to stop them. The foundation's got to put an end to it!
How?
I'm in close with these guys, it isn't easy, but slowly they're opening up to me. Give me a month and I'll blow their movement wide open.
A month, Jesus! And how do I know you're not crapping me?
You can hold back this months paycheck until I come through with the story.
What paycheck? You ain't done nothing!
Henry, I've been working my tail off on this. Look, all I need is a little cash to loosen up some tongues and you've got the scoop. It'll send those scumbags down for life; be a big feather in the cap for the Bugler and your board of directors back home!
I got a bad feeling about this.... How much do you need?
Two hundred dollars, make it six thousand crowns?
There's three thousand and if you don't come through, I'm going throw you clean out of that window. Deal?
Deal!
And take Jiri with you?
What for?
Insurance!
Okay?
Yo, dobree!
It is okay........We will paint the wood black, yes?
Yeah, great....Dobchay! It will dry, yes?
Yes, of course...maybe one hour.
Good, great....Dobchay!
Tomorrow, we will bring some lights and also hang some fabric. I think it will be finished in the morning.
It's perfect, you've done a great job.
Yeah, for sure.
And, since it's only two streets away, I suggest we go take a look. Now!
No, I am an actor not a labourer, I am just warning you, that's all.
Don't worry, I've got lots of friends.
Interesting. Do reckon I could fit through here?
Sure, I've done it easily.
Hey Chris, keep an eye on things.
Hi, want to take up dancing?
Later. Jahn, I've been let down by the guys who were going to do the flooring. They brought the materials but took my money and ran. You guys have a school theatre don't you?
Yes, The Obelisk but it's closed for repairs.
So I hear, do you know some of the stage hands?
Sure, they are students.
Well, I want them to put down a floor and a walkway.
There's three thousand crowns, it's all I got.
It's not so much.
Look, if you can get them to finish it by Friday, you and your friends can do the opening performance that night.
Can we charge admission?
Donations only! And make the thing nonlingual, so everyone gets a handle on it.
I'll do my best. Is the place open.
Yep, it's all yours.
Okay.
They'll do it.
Great. And your all set for the performance?
Yeah, it's a simple piece. If they get the floor done in time, me and the others will rehearse tomorrow afternoon, but it's not critical.
Don't go making it too simple, we're on the cutting edge here.
No thanks, I must go, but maybe you could get some beers for the guys.
Don't worry. Thanks.
Yes, it's looks good.....We will use this for the soundtrack and we will have two guys up there with the spotlights. The others will just be house lights.
Great....How long will it go for?
About forty minutes.
Cool....So, if we say eight o'clock.
Lawrence is getting derogatory again.
Shhhhh, I'm concentrating!
I think he's jealous of Havel.
So why don't you get up and speak something, then we will see who is crazy.
Ooh, well excuse me.
Why don't you read something after the break? DOUG What here? Weren't you listening to what I just said?
You used to read.
Well not any more, now I'm a serious writer and above this crap.
Well, get me and Chris a drink then.
I'll get the drinks, but not here. Let's split. I can't stand this any more, it's murdering my respect for literature.
But I don't want to go, I am enjoying it.
How about you Brutus?
So what's it going to be, Coogan's or U Vayvudoo?
I don't care. I'm not staying out late Doug.
I'm not staying out late and I can't come back to your place.
Whatever!
A word of advice my celibate friend. These Czech girls look like dynamite and go like it, but don't be fooled; there's a price to be paid and it's going up fast. Right Kat?
What?
You're everything a guy could want.
It's just talk, he's drunk.
No I'm not, I came to Prague looking for something  this could be it!
Don't give me this Kat, I'm doing it for you and your country.
What? You are crazy!
Look, just hear me out, okay?
Doug I can't, I've got to be at work by eight. You promised to take me home.
Look Kat it'll only take ten minutes. Without Jahn I might never find it... We'll just have a quick look and then you and I'll hit a tram.
I don't want to get in trouble.
Don't worry it's okay!
I'm not going in Doug. I'll wait for you here.
Okay, whatever. Come on Chris!
Doug you said you wouldn't be long. Come on, I've got to go. Now!
Alright, I'm coming. It's the perfect place Jahn, thanks.
It's not fair, you hardly talked to me tonight.
I'm sorry but it's been a crazy evening. I'm going to make that place into something big. God, I love you!
Let's walk over the bridge, we haven't done that for a while.
We should go to the Metro it's quicker.
Nonsense, we can pick up the tram on the other side, it won't take any longer. Come on!
Kat, I'm in paradise. I don't ever want to leave.
So, we won't be going to London?
No, not just yet.
I hope you're going to invite me in?
Everybody is at home, it's no good.
Let's have a look anyway.
She's tired.
It's bad news when you can't even bribe kids.
I want you so bad. She'll be asleep soon, maybe we could do it quietly under the sheets.
No way Doug, I can't.
Yeah, you're right.... I've got an idea!
Beer please! Do you want another drink?
Fernet and tonic.
I think I'm stupid.....All you do is use me and expect me to wait for you.
No.
I thought you loved me Doug but all you want from me is sex.
That's not true, we have a great time together. I've said I'm sorry. Let's forget about it and go stop by my place, so I can get changed.
Oh sure and you will want sex, always sex.
I could have my choice of many boyfriends and go to movies and discos but I waste my time waiting for you and then going to stupid pubs.
I'm not a bloody teenager okay, I told you I can't do that shit.
That's it, I am just stupid teenager, yes?
Right now, yeah  you're talking crap.
No, I love you, really.
Then tell me, what will happen? Tell me!
Look, I love you Katka but I'm twelve years older, I could never marry you, it'd be stupid, you know that!
I thought for sure they would catch me.
Thanks.
Will it help to get you out?
I hope so!
If you get out can we be together again.
I'm no good for you Katka, besides I won't be able to stay in Prague.
But we could go to London and live in England.
No Kat, I lied to you, I hate England and I don't ever want to live there again.
I don't understand, it's your home?
There's nothing there for me.
I'm sorry about what I said, really I am. Just take me with you, I don't care where.
Forget about me Kat.
But I love you!
It was a mistake, I never wanted to hurt you, but it had to end sooner or later and now, well now I love someone else.
No, it's not true, you're lying.
Not this time, Kat.
Hey, Lawrence how are you doing mate?
Doug, haven't seen you for a while.
I've been around.
Have you met Holly? Josh's friend.
No! Look Lawrence, I've taken over the lease on a theatre downtown and I'm throwing a party tomorrow night to show it off. It's going to be for alternative arts, but I need some help to finish it off, can you put the word out?
Sure. Excellent.
Here's the details.
I'd like to talk with you about doing some performance poetry here....A weekly thing.
Hmm, I see possibilities but you got a lot to do.
We should be done by the weekend.
Really?
I could pencil you in if you like?
I'll take a raincheck for now.
Turned Czech huh?
Yeah, maybe.
Good morning.
I'm just here to record some details, standard stuff.
You mean your NOT going to spring me?
I don't know what it is with you bloody hooligans. Not content with causing trouble back home, YOU idiots have to go off and wreak havoc throughout the whole of Europe. And when finally, the police do catch up with you, you expect us to wave a magic wand and get you out, well not this time, I'm sorry.
So am I.
Now  Your name is Douglas Greenwell, yes?
Yes.
Date of birth, November the fourth nineteensixtytwo.
Yes.
Your home address is 18 Thornton Avenue, Coventry.
That's my mum's.
I see, would you like us to inform her of your situation?
No!
Now, have you been read your rights and are you aware of the charges?
No!
Well, I'll try and get that clarified. As I understand it though, the charges include break and enter, theft, trespass, operating an unlicensed facility, vandalism and destruction of government documents  Whatever possessed you to start destroying people's medical records?
They didn't look like medical files to me.
Well a plea of ignorance won't go far here. Frankly, I think you deserve everything that's coming.
Regards to Her Majesty.
Before you go, did you get those bruises here?
Sure, they wanted to know if I ever voted Conservative.
Time for lunch I think. I'll get the sandwiches. What would you like Holly?
I'm not hungry, really.
Yeah, no problem.
We ain't going to give it away this time, are we?
I can't go with him.
Look, I don't care whether you go with Doug or not, but you_ve got to see him before he leaves.
You don't understand, I can't!
Listen, Doug took the rap for us all so grab your coat 'cause you're going.
I made a deal with Josh.
What?
It was a condition of getting Doug out.
What are you talking about?
In return for Doug's freedom, I was never to see him again, I had to  it was his only chance.
Josh didn't get Doug out of jail, he did a deal in return for some computer disks we'd held onto.
You mean, Josh's father had nothing to do with it?
No!
You're sure?
Sure I'm sure!
Well, he should be on his way back to his apartment by now.
Do you know the way?
Sure, it's on the red metro line you....
No, by road?
Yeah, pretty well.
Good we'll take Josh's Jeep, come on!
Take this exit.
That one?
Yeah!
Jesus Holly, we got enough time.
Okay, but I don't want to miss him.
Follow that Budjovice sign.
It's that one isn't it.
Yeah....Shit, those guys have guns.
There shooting at something.
Doug?
Turn around quick!
He_s the closest we've got to an intellectual.
What's that? A Democrat with an attitude!
Fresh from the shrink I'd say!
Yeah, group bloody therapy time.
What is it with that Josh guy? Who does he think he is shoving that Reflections rag down our throats?
Son of the American ambassador and a banker  good enough?
Wanker more like, what does he know about writing.
How to make a buck!
Yeah right!....I don't know, something isn't right with this place, it's all too sterile and staged. Do you ever wonder why there's no Czechs here?
Because it's in English?
Yeah, but it's not just that. To the Czech mind, any movement, whether political or literary should be underground. If it isn't, then it's not radical and not worthy of a lookin.
But we are underground?
No you don't get it. Every cabby in town knows this joint. So where's the mystery, the danger?
Inspirations a fickle thing, you don't realise you had it till it's gone.
And not even then sometimes.
You guys having a go a me or what?
We're only joking.....It is your round though!
Well, this place is too expensive so you've had it.
Sorry Katka, but I'm with Doug on this.
You're outnumbered Kat two to one, got to go with the majority, that's democracy.
What about that squat bar you showed me, is that open on a Sunday?
Yeah, let's check out the lowlife.
Anything in it?
No, just crap. I want some picture frames.
Never heard of KMART?
I don't have the money for those Bourgeois traps. Hell, I'm making what a Czech earns.
Yeah and they manage to go to bourgeois joints!
It all comes down to ideology and they've lost theirs. If I'd been here ten years ago, maybe they wouldn't be in the mess they are today.
What's that? Free!
Just because they've got a choice of four McDonalds, doesn't mean they can afford a cheeseburger.
Give'em a break Doug, all it takes is a little work.
Who's your friend?
That's Lubosh, the greatest fiddle player in Prague. You must have seen him playing with Johnny on the bridge. ......Come on, let's grab a table.
Hmm..Smells good. Cheers!
What did the beer cost?
Fifteen crowns.
This place is getting expensive too, used to be twelve.
Still, fifty cents ain't bad.
Oh yeah, what's that?
An alternative literary venue!
I ain't sure poetry will go down too well here.
No, it's the whole idea behind it. How did they get this place?
Squatted it.
Right and not just the bar, Lubosh and his mates took the whole freakin' building.
So? DOUG Well, there's tons of empty buildings  why don't we get one?
What we need is a space for real performance art. A cultural exchange for radical expressionism.
You've got to stop using that word "we" it's getting kind of scary. Right Katka?
He's not drunk, he's crazy.
Maybe, but someone's got to make a stand.
Like Custer huh?
These guys think the West is just MTV and Hollywood movies. We've got to show them there's more to it.
Good news comrades, it's better than we'd hoped. Lubosh filled me in on the legal side of squatting here and it's a piece of cake.
Care to elaborate?
Well, providing we're treated like Czechs and we squat something that's not privately owned, we should be in the clear; at least DOUG until they get an eviction order and bring in the bailiffs.
Amazing, he didn't even say "if".
No "if's" or "but's" it's a cinch. Do you want to know what the icing is?
Okay, we're listening. But I'm with Katka on this one.
Well, it's like I said, there's a ton of empty buildings around here and most of them were apparently given back to the city, so they're not private.... Now, Jahn here is an drama student at the University. He knows of a building that they were going to turn into a puppet theatre  they even began work on it, until they ran out of money.
Puppet theatre, don't you need something a little bigger?
It's big, right Jahn?
Okay, it's in here somewhere. Let's keep it quiet.
We could make a run for it?
You were right Jahn, it's a great space..... Hey, Chris. Do you want to come and look?
No thanks, I think we ought to get going though.
Chris, what if I were to cut you in as partner in this project  together we could make it swing, all it needs is a good clean out and the power on, then we're in business.
I don't know man, I'll drink beer and shoot crap with you anytime, but this is different.
Damn right it is, it's a chance to do something meaningful for a change, to leave our mark on this town. Hell, you'll probably be gone in another six months and all you'll have done is taught some kids the lines to a Led Zep' song  c'mon, don't run out on me now!
Alright I give in. But let's not end up in jail. Okay?
You got my word on it.
No, I got nothing till Tuesday.
Great. Let's say nine o'clock here tomorrow. Catch you later partner.
That stinks!
Yeah, that could be job number two. I think it's a sewer.
No, but like my dad said, "There's only so many ways you can wire a plug".
He was an electrician?
No, he was talking about girls, I think.
That makes you an expert I guess.
Too right....Now the other thing we've got to do is start clearing up the rubble. Can you make a start on that?
I feel like a mole in this joint, so I guess I might as well come out lookin' like one!
Don't worry, I'll give you a hand as soon as I can.
Just two things. What do I use to shift the stuff and where in hell am I gonna put it all?
Scout around and see if there's something, check that other corridor. If there's nothing, nip out and buy a broom and shovel.
And put it on expenses?
Sure....As for the crap, I've got an idea.
Somehow, I'm going to have to bandaid that thing since we can't really replace it and then put a walkway over it.
So?
Well, we might as well start filling it in now. As long as you leave enough room around that end of the pipe  so I can get to it, we're set. Use them wooden boards to stop it all spilling into the space  We'll neaten it up later.
You sure got a handle on that word "we".
Not bad hey, I think I'll add Sparkie to my resume.....Good shovel!
Yeah, you're in luck there's two of them, the other's in there.
Later Mate, right now I've got to do the locks on these doors so we don't have to climb through that bloody window every time.
I thought that was part of the charm!
I'll drill the locks and replace the barrels, that way it won't cost so much.
A locksmith too? Why d'you ever bother with writing?
I'm making history Chris, nothings going to stop me. There could be a knighthood for us in this, once President Havel hears.
I'll settle for a pardon. You gotta drill?
No.....But I think Honza at the office has. You keep shifting this crap and I'll take care of the locks, shouldn't take long. Take a break for lunch and I'll catch you up later.
And if the police stop by  what do I tell them?
Tell them we're working for the University.
Thought of everything haven't you.
Yep, except a name for this place.
You're nuts man, Katka's right!
Wow!....What have you been doing, rolling around in it?
No, just making my contribution to cultural enlightenment, that's all.
Well, don't get carried away.
I'll try not to, I'll leave that to you. Anyway, there's still plenty more of it.
Good, I love swinging a shovel.
No, why?
'cause you stink of booze.
Yeah, that was Honza's idea, I had to buy him a few beers in return for the gear.
Tough break.
I'm an idiot?
Nope, not even close. I've thought of a name for this place and you were the inspiration though.
Really, "The Freeman Centre"?
No....The Asylum!
Oh yeah, what's my connection to that?
None, it's mine  you said it earlier, I'm nuts.
I've been saying that since we met.
Yes, but it suddenly clicked, this is going to be a crazy place and, since the Commies are used to seeking asylum, we can use that in the marketing.
Perfect, but I can't use it right now, I've got to get these locks done; it's a matter of priorities.
Yeah, I'm beginning to see that.
Just save me a little patch and I'll do it later.
I don't know but that used to be a window and I think that was a door.
Can you do the lock on it?
No, it's welded up!....Let's take a look from the inside.
It must be on the other side of this.
But how did the wall get here?
I don't know. This wall isn't like the rest though, it's not all that old either.
I'd love to get in there.
Don't we have enough already?
It must be fair old size, suppose it's empty?
And suppose a little old lady lives there?
No way, it's sealed  if she's in there she's dead.
Sounds like a good reason to leave it alone.
Just think though, it would make a hell of a cafe, that way we keep the auditorium clear.
Well, it's definitely there  We've just got to get to it.
Why, how in the hell are we going to set up a cafe?
I'll rig up something don't worry  Do you think I could bash through with that little hammer?
I don't know Doug, we haven't even got the place together and already you want to extend it.
Don't worry if the old lady's there I'll brick it back up.
Look I gotta get going, shouldn't you have met Katka?
Is it gone fourthirty?
Need any disks?
Yeah, I'll take some.
Yeah, her name's Kavlova, why?
See if she can donate some paintings or something to hang on these walls, give it a bit of atmosphere.
You'd be better off with tables and chairs.
Moved on to plumbing huh?
We got a party tomorrow night. Can't have the place smelling like shit.
I thought you were gonna throw these?
I had a better idea, we'll burn them. There's a drum across the road; I was just waiting for the workers to go home.
Destroy the evidence huh.
Have you ever stolen anything?
Nope.
Could you handle it if it was in a good cause?
Like helping a sick kid?
No, for the Asylum.
Close!
Just aiding and abetting if it makes you feel better.
What's that, five instead of ten years jail.
They'll never get us.
Perfect!
It looks new, they might miss one or two.
We're going to need it all.
Jesus Doug, they'll execute us!
Stealing's stealing, we might as well get what we need. This'll do for the floor and the walkway too.
Let's split.
Not yet, we need a few lengths of scaffold.
Why don't we just take the whole damn building, brick by brick Doug.
Look at it this way, it's their contribution. If we'd explained it to them, they'd probably have given it to us anyway.
So why didn't we?
We don't speak Czech!
Afternoon!
Am I late?
No, not if you've got better things to do.
Who put a bee up your butt?
Like a hand?
When your ready Son!
Do you think anyone will really come here?
Well, I think I_ve got a handle on the Czech pysche and I reckon this kind of joint will make _em reminisce about the sixties. Plus we should get a few stray expat_s looking for Kafka.
Fancy some lunch after we_re through with this Meccano shit?
Sure, I think it_s your turn to buy too.
We'd better get some booze in for tonight.
You should have said it was BringABottle.
No, I figure once they see the place and we get'em a little drunk, they'll all want to help. We should have that floor done in a day or so.
Here, let's both put in two hundred crowns. That should get nine or ten bottles of wine.
No beer?
Not on the opening night, wouldn't look right.
You get the wine and I'll go see if I can rustle up some plastic cups.
Why don't we go together?
No, it could take me hours. You know what it's like trying to find things in this town, not to mention disposable stuff  I wouldn't think they've ever heard of them.
Red or white?
Both, see you later.
I see, you've got your hands too far up your collective arse to pull it out long enough except to drink my bloody wine.
Forget it Doug, it's no good.
Have you cleared all the rubble up?
No, not yet.
You're all bloody useless.
Get me a couple of beers and a salami.
We could make a start on the floor afterwards.
No, We aren't going to do it.
What?
Thanks. Come on Chris, give me a hand.
I can't, I've got to split. I have to take a class at two o'clock.
My God! What happened?
I fell in love.
And a tram hit you?
No, the boyfriend.
What happened to Katka?
Didn't I tell you, she dumped me Monday night.
You Romeo's sure pay a high price sometimes  anyone I know?
Holly!
Couldn't keep your hands off the hired help, huh?
It just happened.
She's as American as apple pie too. Have you figured out exactly what it is you despise about them?
She's cool.
A fine specimen for conversion.
What are you on about?
Well, I take it you're going to drag her down to your minimal existence and adjust her mindset.
Don't tell me you really are in love?
Yeah and I got the bruises to prove it. So what?
Nothing, it's just that's when things usually start to go wrong.
Chris, can you do me a favour?
What?
Take the drill back to Honza at the office, I promised to get it back for the weekend and I don't want to show my face there.
You might make Henry happy......Sure, I'll do it.
Good, and then type up a notice on your computer for tonight's thing, photocopy it and put it up in all the faculty buildings and a couple of the pubs. It'll start at eight o'clock and the bar will be open from seven. Holly and I'll go and get some beer and wine. Can you bankroll the bar for tonight?
Shit no, it'll be twice cost.
You capitalist pig!
The performance is free what more do you want....I've set that old phone up as a donation box and I'll get Jahn to write out a sign....Okay, let's get going.
Does Jahn's thing have a name?
Hey Jahn.....You got a name for this thing?
It's me you want, I'm responsible for all this.
He's lying! I am.
Chris! Tell me some good news.
Tell me some bad news?
I don't want to ruin your day.
That bad?
Your too good for this town, Buddy.
So I hear.
Huh?
I had a visit from the British Embassy. They think I'm a stray soccer hooligan.
They ain't the only ones.
I stopped by your office. Henry was steaming, he says he's going to throw you out of the window and that you never worked at the Bugler.
He got that one right.
Honza says they'll print an open letter to President Havel in next weeks edition even if they have to threaten a walkout.
They're good guys..... Have you seen Holly?
No, but I ran into Jahn, seems him and his friends are in big trouble with the University, they might even be expelled.
Damn!
Did you see a lawyer and go before a judge?
Yeah. I tell you, they're one big happy family over there.
What happened?
I don't know, I'm waiting for the transcript.
You're kidding.
Well, the trial's in two weeks, but I think they've already sentenced me. They just need to check if Siberia can slot me in.
WE gotta think of something.
Now you're using that word.
I could try and get a Western lawyer.
You know, there is one thing I can't figure out. All along they've been bugging me about those files and when I told them I'd burned all that stuff, they went nuts  they told the Consul guy they were medical records?
So?
Well, it seems they've dropped any charge relating to the files.
Lucky break!
Maybe, but I've started to wonder what those files were all about. Suppose it was old KGB stuff and had the dirt on big people or maybe the personnel records of the secret police, that might explain all the hassle and the coverup.
Did you see anything in the files?
It was all in Czech wasn't it.
What happened to those disks I gave you, have you still got them?
Yeah, somewhere?
Suppose those contained all the file info too? You could have a third or so of it there.
Do you want me to see what's on them?
No point, it'll be in Czech and God knows what format. But if I'm right, they could be my ticket out of here.
And if you're wrong.
Siberia.
What do you want me to do?
Get me one of the disks. Ask a Czech girl to smuggle it in to me this evening. Put the others in a locker and write the details in a note to Reuters and be ready to send it, if this doesn't work. You'd better keep clear of your apartment too. Do you know someone with a phone?
Yeah, Dave Walters.
Good, what's his number?
It's...42 56 76 .
42 56 76......... Okay, you wait at Dave's for my call tomorrow, if you don't hear from me by three o'clock, send that note and get out of the country fast.
Doug, I can't just leave you!
You're in the clear, keep it that way, I'll be okay.
If I cut a deal, I'm not staying in this country and I want Holly to come with me. So, if she doesn't come here today, you're going to have to get her to me tomorrow; after I call, promise?
Sure....Anything else I can do for you?
You could give me your baseball, so I can drive this bastard nuts.....He's been playing chequers for eight hours and still hasn't won a game.
God, I think I need a holiday.
Some deal you did there!
I should have read the fine print. I love you Holly, thanks.
What about me?
Here!
That's true Doug, writers are supposed to write.
And pay for their drinks occasionally.
What are you having?
A coke, if they have it?
Hey Doug, you want a beer?
Cheers Katka!
Naz dravi!.....What do you like about this place, these people, Chris?
I don't know. It's kind of underground. Doug's right, there's too much crap in this town.
I used to think he was right about a lot of things but now I don't know. I thought he was going somewhere but now I think I am wasting my time.
No, you guys are great together. He'll come through, I'm sure.
So how's your work?
It's okay, they're training me on the cash register and after I hope to work on one of the jewellery counters.
Sounds cool.....Do you think he's serious about squatting a place?
I don't know, I don't care. I see too much of him and he's changed. He used to be busy at the magazine. But now he's been doing nothing for months, like he doesn't care about anything, including me.
Well, he sure seems fired up all of a sudden.
It won't last, believe me. And you, when will you go back to the States?
I don't know, maybe I'll enrol for postgrad' studies next Autumn.
Your a good guy Chris you deserve a nice girl.
Like you?
No, better than me. You know, I have many friends, you should meet more of them.
You wish to close this account today?
That's correct.
How would you like the funds?
American currency.
This will take some time.
I have all day.
Excellent, senor. If you could follow me?
I'm sorry, but I am waiting for an associate. Can you hold everything for me until he arrives?
Of course, senor.
Thank you.
How much farther?
Just a little ways. Up to those trees.
Hey, do you mind if I talk a little? I feel like, I don't know, talking I guess.
Sure.
Funny, I've never been a talker. My wife was always getting on me about that. 'Say what you feel, tell me what's bothering you, you ve got to talk to me.' I never would though. Not really.
Why not?
I don't know. Part of me wanted to but part of me always said, 'What's she going to be able to do?' I don't know. Maybe I didn't trust her.
I think I've heard of you.
It's possible.
You're pretty famous aren't you?
I hope not.
I know this may seem like a strange question, but can I ask you how much the contract was for  not to insult you or anything, I know you're a professional, but just for me, I was just wondering.
It's a common question.
Oh yeah? I guess we still need to see that price tag. Like art, right? You hang some painting that looks like babypuke in your living room only if it costs a bundle.
A dime.
One hundred thousand? That's it? Jesus... Is that a lot?
Average.
Shit... oh well.
I have been thinking about this for a long while. I knew this day was coming. I knew someday someone would make the call on me. I never thought about anyone that I had whacked. What do you call it anyway?
Taken.
'Taken.' That's nice. When I had someone taken I would call our General Contractor, transfer the money and as soon as I hung up the phone I forgot about them.
Everyone who plays the game knows the rules.
That's exactly what I told myself.
Don't know. That's how it works.
That's what our General Contractor told us but how can you trust someone like that?
Right.
I thought that I would be thinking about Margaret, or work, or that I'd be having these deep, profound and depressing thoughts but I'm not. I'm trying to think really profound thoughts, but I can't. It seems very funny to me.
What are you thinking about?
I'm thinking about Moonpies. Ain't that funny? I haven't had a Moonpie since I was ten years old. Right now, I'm thinking how much I'd love one.
And an R.C.
Can I ask you something?
Go ahead.
What do other guys do?
Everyone handles it differently. Some are ready, some are not.
Do they get down on their knees, begging and crying?
Some.
When I thought about this, that was always there, in the back of my head, that image of me on my knees, crying. It wouldn't go away and it would really upset me. It was something that I could never get away from... but now, I feel it's okay. I feel good.
Can I ask you a question?
Anything.
Why didn't you fade?
You mean quit?
Yeah.
I used to think about it. I had Margaret. She wanted kids. I thought about moving somewhere far away like, Europe. I could see all of that, the first part, the getting away but I couldn't see that next part. 'Then what?' So I'd stop thinking about it and go back to work. You understand?
Yeah.
Look at that. I haven't watched the sun set in a million years. Do you mind?
No.
Hi. Did you call 
Yes. Please come in.
I prefer it like this.
How can a beautiful man like you be shy?
Would you like a drink?
I'd love one. Whatever you're having.
Why are you working today?
Holidays are our busiest days. No one likes to be alone on holidays. I know I don't.
You're very good at this aren't you?
I think you're supposed to answer that question.
That's okay, hon, I always expect the unexpected.
I called because I just want... I need to talk.
For what?
Honesty.
Do you ever regret things you've done?
Everyone regrets something.
But when you finLsh a job, afterwards do you think about them?
Sometimes.
Do you think about their wives or their families?
No. They call me, I don't call them. If they didn't call I wouldn't exist.
Do you ever think about starting over?
All the time.
Can you tell me about it?
Then, I'll sail alone.
Do you believe that?
Are you asking me if I believe in another life?
Is that all you want?
Yes.
Thank you.
Anytime.
I wasn't watching television.
The point is, they are paying for information. Real information. Not tooth paste brands. Not whether he wads of folds his toilet paper. And no 16 hours of recorded phone sex. You are wasting everyone's time with this shit.
I thought it was interesting 
God damnit, Electra. This is not a game. This is business.
Right. In my hands I have five backup disks he made of all of his work last night.
Jesus! Why didn't you tell me?
I'll make my usual arrangements and expect my usual bonus.
Electra 
A pleasure doing business with you.
What?
He has to clean up. How many bodies were there?
Um, five.
One hour per man.
Get on the expressway.
Where are we going?
Nikita? She helped me find you.
What? How did you know I had a cat?
Took a guess. Lucky for you, I guessed right.
Who the fuck are you? Who do you work for?
I work for the government.
Yeah?
Bullshit.
Yeah.
You're one of them, aren't you? A fucking pro.
I'm part of the game, just like you.
Twenty large? That's all?
What do you mean, 'that's all'? What in the hell do you know?
The bonus on the contract for you was one million dollars.
I figure that means these are worth ten times that, maybe more.
Ten million 
Now you understand why I'm here.
Now what?
Turn off the engine.
You want me to pump?
No, stay in the car. I want you to understand something. If I intended to kill you, you would already be dead.
Okay. How did you find me?
You're the computer hacker, you tell me.
You didn't know anything about me.
Nikita?
Yellow Pages. V for veterinarian. There aren't that many.
You're one of them, aren't you?
'Them'?
An assassin?
Until a minute ago.
What does that mean?
If I still was what I used to be, you would not be pointing that at me.
Who is that other guy?
Another contractor.
Someone hired both of you?
No. They hired Bain. The contract would have been mine, but Bain took it from me as he took the previous one.
So this is something between you and him?
He stole the contract knowing that I would come after him.
Why?
Because he is trying to retire me.
He wants to kill you?
Yes.
Why?
The nature of the business. You remove your competition.
And you want to use me to get him?
Yes.
Forget it!
We don't have a choice.
Don't tell me I don't have a choice!
Right.
I'm two seconds away from making my choice which means you've got two seconds to tell me why I shouldn't shoot you.
It's simple. You need me. I need you. And we will both need money.
I don't need you to get the money  my money!
If it hadn't been for me, you would be dead.
I don't need the money.
This is something that is never going to end. You can never work in the business again with this contract, because he will find you. To survive, you have to go into deep hiding. And that's going to take money, a lot of money.
Then you can have the disks and I'll just walk out that door 
If you walk out that door, Bain will still come after you.
Why?
Because he took a contract on you. He'll come for you and he'll find you.
You don't know that  you're trying to scare me.
No. It's the truth. I know what you are. Like me, like Bain, you're a ghost, you're not part of the real world. You don't have a social security number. You don't pay taxes. You've probably used ten different names over the last ten years. A long time ago something probably happened, something illegal and you ran, you disappeared and it was easy. You think you can do it again. But I'm telling you, fading from the law is nothing. No matter what you do, where you go, I swear to you that Bain will find you.
How?
Right now, as we sit here, he is tearing through your apartment. He is digging through your drawers, emptying your closets. He will take your telephone and address books, your appointment books. If you keep a diary, he is reading it. He'll go into the kitchen and find out what kind of food you eat, liquor you drink, cigarettes you smoke. In the bathroom he will find any prescription drugs you take and where you get them filled. If you have video tape or recordings he will watch and listen to all of them.
Oh Jesus Jesus...
He will know everything about you. Everything. I know, because I've done it. Once you've been inside a mark's home, you're in their head. If you're any good, you'll find the mark in a week, and Bain is good because I was the best and I couldn't take him.
Listen  I don't even know your name.
Rath. Robert Rath.
Electra.
Just Electra?
Yeah.
As in daughter of Agamemnon?
No. Just Electra.
What I'm trying to say is that  I'm not sure I can do this, help you, unless I know more about you.
What do you want to know?
If Bain hadn't taken the contract on me, would you have?
No.
Why?
Because I'm done.
This is crazy. I can't trust you. You can't trust me. How can we possibly help each other?
With computers.
It's not the same, is it?
Better than playing with yourself.
Had?
He was Russian. Nicholai Tachlinkov. A legend in the business when I was just starting. I admired him. When I heard he loved chess I became obsessed with the game.
It looks like white's game.
We played with a code using <u>The New</u> <u>York Times</u> obituaries. Over three years we played twelve matches. I never won.
Why didn't you finish this game?
He was... taken.
He was killed.
I killed him.
Why?
Because that's how it works. That's what it's about. He was the best. He was on top.
Where you wanted to be?
Yes. As soon as you get into this business, all you can think about is getting to the top. That's all there is. Until then, there is nothing. You are nothing.
How did you get into the business?
The same way everyone does; the government, the Agency.
The C.I.A.?
More or less.
How old were you?
They recruited me when I was in high school.
Jesus  why?
Languages. I was already fluent in nine languages.
You were like a boy genius?
Some people said that. I never thought so.
Why not?
I was just different.
You went from high school to the Agency?
No. I graduated from George Washington University. Then I entered the Agency training program.
They didn't give you a choice, did they?
No, they didn't.
But you knew what they were training you for?
Of course. I was going to be James Bond.
Ahhhh...
They are very good at what they do. It's very seductive. The training, the weapons, the travel 
The exotic women.
Women? No... not really.
Why not?
Women... I don't... I don't want to talk about women.
Why?
Because you are a women.
Why did you leave the Agency?
The same reason everyone does. You hear your name on CSPAN and you realize you're a skeleton in someone's closet and they're coming to bury you.
They tried to kill you?
Yes. It didn't matter much to them as long as I disappeared.
Then you went freelance?
The only thing different about the private sector is that a General Contractor takes less of a percentage than the government, so you make more money. Then once you make the transition, you realize you were never working for the government; it was always the private sector, the vested interests and it's the same vested interests that continue to buy your plane tickets.
Tell me about the first time.
My first take?
Yes.
Why?
Because I want to know.
It was... mechanical. Very precise. It was exactly like the training drill except for the adrenaline.
Are they usually like that?
No. Just the first one.
After that?
They become complicated... messy.
Did it ever bother you?
Did it ever bother James Bond?
That's fiction.
This is fiction! Don't you see that? This is another reality. And the people that come into the world to play this game  nobody forces them! They're here, they know the rules, the stakes, the risks! Do you understand what I am saying? No one is innocent  including you!
Does that mean it didn't bother you?
Is that what you wanted to hear? Something cold blooded... something remorseless...
No. Something honest.
It. Tell it. For all I know it could be a machine.
You said you didn't trust it.
I don't.
Do you have a passport?
Several.
Good.
Where is it?
Mexico.
Hey, where are you?
Thinking.
About?
Nothing.
I've never been to the Gulf of Mexico. Is it as nice as they say?
I don't know.
You were there?
That's where he'll be.
What?
I wasn't expecting this. I need to think.
No.
Why not?
It helps me to focus. It centers me, helps me think.
Oh. What do you think about?
Work. The things I need to get done.
Do you think about the game?
Yes.
But you've never figured out a way to win.
No.
Not even a stalemate?
No.
What happens if you do?
What will you do if this works, if we get the money?
I don't know... maybe I'll live on a boat, sail to all the places I've never been.
That sounds nice.
I'm kind of tired. I think I'd like to try and get some sleep.
You can have the bed. The chair is fine for me.
Do you think he's here?
Here?
In Costa Blanca.
Yes.
What do you think he's doing?
I don't know... But I'm sure he's not sleeping.
Breakfast.
Why don't you bring it out here? It's beautiful out here.
I know what you are thinking. I'm not going to disappear, okay? I'm not going anywhere, just down there, to that beautiful beach. I got to get out of this room, just for a little while.
Okay.
Really?
He won't be looking for you. Just be careful. Buy a book. Keep your sunglasses on.
Book. Sunglasses. Great.
You should knock.
Sorry.
How was the beach?
The beach? It was nice.
Where did you learn it?
Taiwan.
Not that I would know, but you look like you're really good at it.
Thank you.
I've always wanted to learn something like that.
You should. It's very important, that the body release the energy that builds in it.
Two way?
Transmits and receives.
Cheap as shit.
I paid a lot for these.
They saw you coming a mile away. If I had known we'd be using 
It's too late now. Okay? We'll have to deal with these.
Fine.
This is the bank. This is the hotel. In the morning I will enter the bank.
Check.
He will be hidden somewhere out here, probably somewhere low, in the crowd. He'll stay there until he sees me enter the bank.
But he won't shoot you right then?
No. It would be amateur. A risk. He'll wait for the prime shot, that he knows is coming. Once I'm inside, he'll move to the hotel. He'll go up the back, too much traffic in the front.
You'll be here. A restaurant. A public place far enough away that he won't notice you, but with a good enough view you'll be able to see him when he moves inside.
Okay. Then what?
Then, we wait.
Aiiee. More waiting? I don't know if I like this plan.
It will take the entire day, but he will begin to doubt himself. He will begin to believe that he missed me, that somehow I slipped by and am already on a plane to Europe.
The sun will be low, almost dark, the air cool and the bank will almost be closed. 5:45. 5:50. He will put the rifle down, he will get up and he will walk across the plaza to the bank.
Why won't he wait until the bank closes?
He won't be able to. He'll have to go inside. He'll have to see with his own eyes, whether or not I am there. If the bank closes, he won't know for sure. He'll come. I'm sure. And when he does you'll go into the hotel, go upstairs and take the gun.
What? What if he brings it with him?
He can't. The bank has an expensive security system; metal detectors and Xray machines.
That means you won't have a gun.
That's right.
And with the mikes, I'll tell you when he leaves the hotel and you'll tell me when he leaves the bank.
If things go well, I don't have to. You'll already be in a rented car waiting for me.
You'll have the money. How do I know that you won't 
I'll be walking out of the bank, unarmed. You'll have the gun and I'll drive the car.
We split the money?
Five million apiece. You get on your plane, I get on mine.
Sounds pretty well figured out.
I've been thinking about it for a long time.
Except 
What?
Except, if he doesn't come out of the hotel.
I told you, he will.
You can't know for sure, how can you? I mean, you're not him.
I was.
Ten years ago, I sat there in that same hotel window, sweat pouring off of me waiting 
For Nicholai?
Yes.
You killed him here? In this city, outside that bank?
What is it? I don't like this at all. What is going on here?
I don't know. It just happened. I was here ten years ago, I'm here now. That's it.
I don't believe that.
It wasn't planned or premeditated. I swear. Things happened beyond my control. I understood; I saw where they were leading and I suppose that it just made sense.
Ten years ago.
Yes.
What happened?
I waited until I was insane and then I walked into the bank. He was sitting there, very calm, waiting for me.
What did he want?
He wanted what I want now; to get out of the business. To disappear to some empty Greek island.
What did he say?
He said I couldn't win. That no one wins at this game.
Was that it?
Then he offered me one million dollars to walk away, to quit the business.
You didn't take it.
No. I went back to the hotel. And waited.
Ten years later, here you are again.
Yes. Here I am again.
Do you have ulcers?
No.
I think I got one today.
Five million dollars will buy a lot of Rolaids.
Why did you trade a bishop for a knight?
I hate bishops. They're useless. I like knights.
They're worth less points.
So?
Did you think they were newlyweds?
I didn't notice them.
When I first saw them I thought they were married.
How do you know they're not?
I went into their room this afternoon.
What?
It was no big deal. I saw them leave, I went in.
Jesus, if someone had 
Nobody ever sees me.
Why in the hell would you take that chance?
I heard them last night and it made me want to know something about them. I wanted to, so I did.
She is married, but not to him. Another man, much older. She has four kids. The young guy works for her. And I think she likes kinky sex.
Thank you.
Isn't it interesting though? I mean, look at us, in this room. Or yesterday, when we were walking in the plaza market. I mean, we look like just another couple. But what are we? Doesn't it seem so crazy?
No.
No?
It's always been that way. The world has always functioned on two levels.
I know. It makes me crazy.
Why?
I don't know. When I was in college, I was forced to go to a psychiatrist because I was caught drilling holes in my dorm room floor.
And you were drilling these holes...?
So I could watch the girl that lived under me.
Apparently this doctor was unable to cure you.
He told me that my curiosity became unnaturally entangled with my sense of selfpreservation.
Did he explain how this happened?
He believed it all went back to one night, when as a little girl. I watched my parents have this big fight, really big. I thought my mother was going to kill my father. Then they went into their room and made up. And I watched them make love through the keyhole.
What are you doing?
What?
That's a ridiculous move.
Why?
Because, I'll take it.
I'm playing white, remember. You can't tell me which pieces to move. It doesn't work that way.
Can I ask you something?
I'm sure you will.
Am I attractive?
Yes.
Are you attracted to me?
Yes.
Why?
Why? I don't know.
Is it a physical thing, or a mental thing?
Both.
Is that why you didn't want to talk about women before?
I didn't want to complicate the situation.
Attraction is a complication?
It can be.
It happened to you before?
Yes.
Who was she?
Someone like me, like you. A pro.
What happened to her?
She was taken.
Did you 
No. I tried to stop it. I couldn't.
Was she the only one?
After her, I realized that to survive I had to live without... It's dangerous to let things become complicated.
Is this becoming complicated?
I'm not sure that I care anymore.
Were you attracted to me right away?
No.
When did it start?
Honestly?
Uhhuh.
When I gave you my gun and you almost shot me.
Maybe you should see a psychiatrist.
Why?
That doesn't sound normal.
I'm not normal.
I know. That's why I'm attracted to you. I mean, you make me nervous. You're intimidating. Maybe it's my curiosity/selfpreservation thing, but all I can really think about right now is kissing you.
Martin.
Martin.
Four minutes.
What?
I waited another four minutes.
Shit.
Wait until he is on the stairs.
Right.
I'm taking off my mike.
Okay.
Electra 
What?
Last night 
Was nice.
Yes.
He's coming, Electra! Get out now!
Oh, God. I see it!
I have been sitting on a contract from Cleveland for six days because of you.
Fuck you, fuck Cleveland, and fuck your contracts 
I know what happened.
I bet you fucking know!
It cost us.
I give a fuck? I'm done! I quit! Do you fucking hear me! I'm fucking gone!
He stole another contract.
Is this how it went, Nick?
Robert? Robert?
You think this is a fucking joke?
$1,000,000.
A player?
We have an M.O... Her system is protected by her 'pussy virus.'
Where have you been, Robert?
Sick. The flu.
I don't believe you.
Send the file. I'll have the estimate tonight.
I'm worried about you, Robert.
What?
The contract was stolen.
Who?
A new player. He's using the name Nicholai.
How did he know?
Know what?
The fucking contract! How in the fuck did he know.
I don't know what the fuck you are.
I know. It was a joke.
Deadline?
Tomorrow. The buyer is Japanese. His retirement a condition of the bonus.
Who is the mark?
Freelancer. A woman. Surveillance specialist.
Hello, Robert.
The contract?
Paid in full.
Hi. Up ahead my boss is in that black limo. We're not sure which hotel we're at, so could you just follow them?
Sure.
Good afternoon. We have reservations at the Hotel Paraiso in Costa Blanca.
Yes, sir.
No, no. I said the Hotel Paraiso.
Yes. This is the Hotel Paraiso.
No, the other Hotel Paraiso, in the city. Near the Plaza del Sol.
I'm sorry, sir. A year ago there was a fire in the old Hotel Paraiso. This is the new Hotel Paraiso.
Take us there.
I'm on the scent.
You're too late.
Michael?
No. No. No. I don't believe it.
They money will be standard bank transfer. We believe we will know where and when.
What?
Such language in front of a lady.
I don't give a fuck what you are. I asked you 
How in the fuck do you know that?
Do you want Rath or not?
Is there a problem?
No. No problem. The airport, right?
Right.
Yeah. Yeah, I'm a waiter.
Where?
What?
What restaurant?
Uh, Fontella's
So you're from around here?
No. No I'm not.
Where you from?
What is this?
Not too good at small talk, eh?
Look, I'm real tired and I'm not interested in fucking chitchat.
I know just what you mean. I'm pretty beat myself.
Why? What happened?
Didn't you here all them sirens? It's been all over the radio. Some guy shot Leevio Valli, and a bunch of bystanders, in the Trattoria Roma.
No shit.
Yeah, it's terrible. I mean Valli, and I don't care what office he's running for, the guy's a crook. He probably had it coming, but all the other people. Real sad.
Yeah.
But they caught the guy. I heard it all. Sounded like he just went berserk, fucking loco. Shooting anybody. Drugs, probably.
Probably.
I'd love to sit in that jury. Send that S.O.B. right to the chair.
What are you doing?
What?
That was Peterson back there. That goes to the expressway for the airport.
You're right. Talking too much again.
Yeah well, you just blew your tip, pal.
What? You think I'm running you up?
Just do your job.
What are you doing?
Get out. You think I'm running you up? Get out.
You can't 
The hell I can't. It's my cab. I don't like you. So, get the hell out!
Sit back. Put your seatbelt on.
No fucking way.
Okay, don't.
Boy, that's fucking genius. You're a fucking genius. Then you're just sitting there, bullshitting with me. Man, no way I coulda done that!
What's your name? We both know it's not Nicholai.
Holy shit! Robert Rath wants to know my name.
Bain. Michael Bain.
How long have you been freelance?
Two years. Two long fucking years.
Hey. What I don't get was why didn't you take the shot inside the restaurant? I mean you had me, a free shot. That's what I would have done.
It's just a shootout then. Sixty forty, at best. Not my odds.
Sounds like chickenshit 
You don't have to tell me that. It's just, I know my bid was low, but was it too low? I mean, did I seem like an amateur, like I didn't know what I was doing?
We both know what you were doing.
Oh! I got a question. Jesus, this has been driving me crazy for years  shit, listen to me. I sound like some fucking fanboy. I'm sorry, but I just got to ask you. Everybody talks about how you left the Agency and got into the business and then how you went after the Russian, Nicholai Talinkov 
Tachlinkov.
Yeah, that's it. And he's like a fucking genius. They said he shaded you over and over. And in the end, he aced you again. Shaded and faded. They say he's living on some Greek island, but I say that's fucking bullshit. I say you're the best and that you planted his ass. Am I right?
Robert Bain, driving me! Jesus fucking Christ!
After those cops, you'll never be able to come back to Cleveland.
Who the fuck cares about Cleveland. Cleveland blows. What kind of marks have they got here? Greasy mobster, teamster or some hand job politician. I want the money marks. I want the marks that you get.
So what happens now?
We go around once.
Bullshit.
Okay.
What? What's okay?
What are you doing?
There's a sand barricade up ahead; I'm going to ram this cab into it. The cab has an airbag, odds are good I'll survive. But with this steel casing and bullet proof glass, odds for you are not so good.
No, no. Wait. You don't want me to jump. You're going to jump. I'm stuck back here until it's too late. Wham  over!
I know you're going to jump.
How'd you know? Just tell me that. How'd you fucking know?
I knew the same way in ten years you're going to know.
What does that fucking mean?
It means that I'm going to tell you things, even though I already know that you're not going to listen to a God damned thing I say.
Listen to me, Bain. Two days ago, you contacted your contractor, who told you that they knew when and where I was going to pick up the transferred money from MicroCell. You don't know how they got the information. It bothered you, but you didn't care. How do I know this? Because ten years ago, I was sitting in that chair, as scared shitless as you are now.
I ain't scared of you.
Yeah you are and you hate it. You hate the fact that your hand is shaking and mine isn't. That you're sweating your balls off and I'm not. You've got fear and hate in your belly like battery acid, all because of me.
If you think you can take me, quit fucking bullshitting and try it.
All right, Bain. Pay attention, because this is where everything changes.
Five million dollars?
That's right.
Shit. That sure is a lot of money.
Did you see how I did that? Magic wasn't it?
What?
You understand what's going on? It makes sense, right?
Oh, yeah.
What I just said, no assassin would say. What I've said, only a mark would say.
You think I would be an idiot to pass up five million dollars.
You would be.
You don't know a fucking thing about me. You don't have the slightest fucking clue.
Why don't you tell me.
I'll tell you this. After Cleveland, I thought I was lucky to be alive. But now, here, I just realized that you were the lucky one.
Now I'll tell you something. It wouldn't fucking matter if I offered you one hundred million dollars. You'd still be thinking the same thing, that you're going to take me. And here I am, sitting through this, knowing it's bullshit, looking at you and the only thing going on in my mind, the only thing I can think is that, in just a few minutes I'm going to take you.
Game over, bitch!
Bain!
Exactly what is your previous experience?
How about that pose? This is not fun... Give me some direction.
Nothing. I just watch till something strikes me. Do anything you think of  try different thing. Until I say, "hold that pose." Then just try and comfortably hold it.
The fact that you haven't said, "hold it" means I haven't done it right... is that correct? I haven't done it right?
No... Okay. What I do is watch and wait for, um... You ever watch someone who doesn't know you're watching... an old woman on a bus, kids going to school and you see this flash come over them and you know immediately that it has nothing to do with anything external  that it's in respond to a private thought they just had? They are just sort of realer and more alive. And when you notice it so are you. If you look at someone long enough, you discover their humanity.
So you're practically finished, huh?
Yes... well, there's one more stage  trying to figure out if it's any good.
Wait  I want to see the painting.
Just a second  he has to go.
Please!! NO!!!
Why are you doing this?
No. No. No. Hey, that painting in there... I just want to tell you...
I can't resist. You usually move through here so quickly and I have so many questions I want to ask you. You have no idea what your work means to me.
What's it mean?
That somebody out there knows what it's like to be... in here.
Oh God, this is like a nightmare.
Aw come on, just a couple of questions  how hard is that?
How do you write women so well?
I think of a man and take away reason and accountability.
Mr. Udall... excuse me. Hey there! Have you seen Verdell?
What's he look like?
My dog... you know... I mean my little dog with the adorable face... Don't you know what my dog looks like?
I got it. You're talking about your dog. I thought that was the name of the colored man I've been seeing in the hall.
Which color was that?
Like thick molasses, with one of those wide noses perfect for smelling trouble and prison food...
Frank Sachs  Melvin Udall.
How're you doing?
Franks shows my work, Mr. Udall. I think you know that.
Mr. Udall, I'd like to talk to you please.
'Love was... '
Yeeeess!!!
Maybe this can wait.
I found Verdell, Mr. Udall.
Well, that's a load off.
Did you... do something to him?
Do you realize that I work at him?
No, I didn't.
Do you like to be interrupt when you are danging around in your little garden?
No... actually, I even shut the phone off and put a little piece of cardboard in the ringer so no one can just buzz me from d...
Well, I work all the time. So never, never again interrupt me. Okay? I mean, never. Not 30 years from now... not if there's fire. Not even if you hear a thud from inside my home and a week later there's a smell from in there that can only come from a decaying body and you have to hold a hanky against your face because the stench is so thick you think you're going to faint even then don't come knocking or, if it's election night and you're excited and want to celebrate because some fudgepacker you dated has been elected the first queer President of the United States... and he's going to put you up in Camp David and you just want to share the moment with someone... don't knock ... not on this door. Not for anything. Got me. Sweetheart?
Yes. It's not a subtle point you're making.
Okay, then.
That's some face they left hanging on you. You look like...
Could you take it just a little easy, Mr. Udall?
Thank you. Verdell... sweetheart? By the way, thanks for saving me.
I called. I never touched you. I didn't leave my name or nothing.
Verdell?
Maybe I'll bring him some food by.
Thank you for walking him.
If you'll excuse me I'm not feeling so well.
It smells like shit in here?
Go away.
That cleaning woman doesn't...
Please, just leave.
Where are all your queer party friends?
Get out.
Nothing worse than having to feel this way in front of you?
Nellie, you're a disgrace to depression.
Rot in hell, Melvin.
No need to stop being a lady... quit worrying  you'll be back on your knees in no time.
Well, I'll do one thing for you that might cheer you up.
Get out.
Don't piss on a gift, tough guy. You want to know why the dog prefers me... it's not affection. It's a trick.
I carry bacon in my pocket.
Oh, my gosh.
Now we'll both call him.
Come on, sweetheart...
Yo, yo, yo...
Would you leave now, please?
Stupid dog. I don't get it.
I brought you Chinese soup.
Thanks.
I have never been so tired in my life. Okay, if I sit here?
Got any easier questions?
I haven't been sleeping. I haven't been clear or felt like myself. I'm in trouble. Some son of a bitch is burning my bridges behind my back... But the tiredness  boy... Not just sleepy.
But sick  nauseous  where everything looks distorted and everything inside just aches  when you can barely get up the will to complain.
Yeah...
I, uh... I was... attacked. Walked in on people robbing me. I was hospitalized. I almost died.
Let's do the small talk in the car. Load up.
That's very thoughtful.
Never a break. Never.
Well, I always painted. Always. And my mother always encouraged it. She was sort of fabulous about it actually... and she used to... I was too young to think there was anything at all wrong with it... and she was very natural. She used to pose nude for me... and I thought or assumed my father was aware of it.
This stuff is pointless.
Not it at all, really.
Not at all, huh?!... Let's go to the hotel. And if you're lucky tomorrow Dad will give you another wad of sweaty money.
Do you ever get an erection for a woman?
Melvin...
Wouldn't your lie be a lot easier if you were not...
You consider your life easy.
I give you that one... Nice packing.
I get why you're angry. It's no snap to explain why I was like that, but let's not try to do it on the run...
... so Mom. Truly no grudges  truly. A little odd that you didn't come to see me when you heard I was hurt, but the important thing I want you to know is your son is happy. I'm working again. I'll make do  I don't want a thing. Wouldn't take it if it was offered. I'll drop you a note from wherever I land and then it's up to you. I hope we patch things up but know that if we don't, I wish you both the very best... I can't hear you. You heard me, though, right? Good  take good care. 'Bye.
... Now he's going to want to stay. And they'll want to take a ride to the lake or whatever. So it's a good five hours back. It gives us a chance to take it easy and...
I'm going back with you.
What are you talking about? You got real problems.
I know. I'm a little bit nervous. Suddenly everything seems so easy. Carol, a load has been lifted.
Goodbye. Well, your luck is holding. They sublet your place. You're homeless. Frank's got a line on another place you can use for now.
Another place where?
Does it matter?
I told you to go on in.
Look, I've got to get a hold of Frank and see where I'm hanging my hat 'cause...
I think you gotta camp it here...
What are you talking about?
Thank you, Melvin. You overwhelm me.
They did a nice job... Cozy, huh?
I love you.
Sorry, didn't know you were awake. I just thought Verdell shouldn't get too used to sleeping in here 'cause then...
Look, we both want the dog  and...
You going to come talk to me or not?
I'm coming.
What did she say?
I'm a great guy  "extraordinary"... ... and she doesn't want contact with me. I'm dying here.
Because... ... you love her?
No... and you're supposed to be sensitive and sharp.
Okay... you tell me why  "You're dying here."
I don't know... Let me sleep on it and figure it out. Because I'm stuck! Can't go back to what I had... She's evicted me from my life.
Did you like it that much?
It was better than this... Look, you, I'm very intelligent. If you're going to give me advice or conversation or consolation or hope, you got to be better than you're doing. If you can't be at least momentarily interesting than shut the hell up. I'm drowning and you're describing water.
Picking on me won't help.
Well, if that's true then I'm really in trouble.
But you know where you're lucky?
Absolutely not.
You know who you want. I'll take your seat any day. So do something... don't sleep on it... go over there. I don't think anybody should ever sleep on anything  it's not always good to let things calm down.
Hey... I'm charged here. But she might kill me for showing up this late.
Then get in your jammies and I'll read you a story... I think you've got a chance. The only real enemy you have is her ability to think logically  the best thing you have going for you is your willingness to humiliate yourself if it gives you one chance in whatever  so go catch her off guard.
Okay. Thanks a lot. Here I go.
What's wrong?
I forgot to lock the door.
Okay. So you call 911 and don't leave your name  even a dumb geezer should know that emergency automatically pulls up your name. How come you make a mistake like that?
How come you're pretending to do cop work  'cause I don't think you could find your ass if you were spotted the hole.
What?
Just move on. No one here killed him.
Oh, is he dead?
Ask him.
We will if we can and if we can't, we'll come back and ask you again and again.
Is he dead yet?
No! Would there be any way for you to be willing to walk his dog for him?
Absolutely.
Not just today  Uh, could you do it  until, until he gets back on his feet?
Sure thing.
You're a wonderful man. Two o'clock is a good time. Here's the key in case he's asleep. Open the curtains for him, so he sees God's beautiful work and knows that even things like this happen for the best.
Where'd they teach you to talk like this  some Panama City "Sailor want to humphump bar"? Or was today getaway day and your last shot at his whiskey. Sell crazy some place else  we're all stocked up here.
How you doing, great one?
I haven't looked at myself yet. I figured I could tell from your reaction.
No. Please, don't force him.
You little stinker. He's given you everything.
Sorry. What are those cards?
Frank's idea. He thought I should have notes so I did this right... maintained focus, didn't get emotional and tried not to terrify you.
Terrify me?
See, he's right. I need the cards. Simon, you're broke.
The medical bill are 61 thousand now. I've spoken to your parents and they didn't hang up or anything  they just said they would feel strange calling you.
Well, I can't reach them.
Frank loves you. You know that... but I've spoken to him and he feels that   as a businessman, with limited resources...
I'll be able to keep my apartment and studio, won't I?... Just tell me.
Good evening.
Hi. You have hard shells, right?
Yes, we do... And I can give you a tie and jacket.
What?
They require a tie and jacket but we have some available.
Actually, I don't think so.
Wait here.
Shall I get her for you?
No, it's all right. I'll just watch.
Simon, you've got to get dressed.
What I know is that as long as you keep your work zipped up around me, I don't give a fuck what or where you shove your show. Are we being neighbors for now?
Definitely a package you don't want to open or touch.
Hope you find him. I love that dog.
No touch. No touch. No touch.
You may think you can intimidate the whole world with your attitude, but I grew up in Hell. My grandmother had more attitude. You don't intimidate me.
Police! Police! Fucking crooked police... doughnutmunching morons help me! Assault and battery and you're black.
Shhhh now. I like Simon. I like him enough to batter you unrecognizable if you verbally abuse him or so much as touch his dog again. Meanwhile, I'll try and think how you can make this up to him. I hate doing this. I'm an art dealer. Have a nice day. Party!
You're taking him... yes... you're taking him  this will clear the books. One night. You want to say "no" to me? Try... because I've never felt as nuts as I do right this second. I almost want you to try saying "no."
I'm not saying nothing to you.
Thanks for looking after him.
Hey, where are you going? You can't do this. I can't take a dog. Nobody's ever been in here before.
You don't want to mess with me today. I'll figure something else out tomorrow.
How's Verdell doing?
He's a pain in the ass.
Simon's home. I was sort of hoping you could keep the dog until he's had a chance to think and adjust...
It's been five weeks... another few won't kill me.
No. He wants him back. He'll be by tomorrow.
Okay by me.
It's not my dog and this Simon seems to have enough on his mind  but he did throw up twice and his spark is off.
Sure  take him to the vet.
I did. And his stomach is out of whack. So they need him for a couple of days.
Do it.
She's nice.
Really nice. Shouldn't that be a good thing... telling someone, 'no thanks required.'
It looks like it really went over. You're sure making the rounds. Simon says you brought him soup last night. I hope he doesn't write you a note.
What?
"What?" Look at you... You sense a mark.
Hey  you called me... I...
About a dog.
Yeah, but it's all about Simon now... you helped with the dog... And now there are other things. I'm just as concerned as you are about Simon.
Concerned. I'm just the hall monitor here.
It's not only financial assistance. What he's got to do is go to Baltimore tomorrow and ask his parents for money. It's not going to happen on the phone.
Yeah. If his parents are alive they've got to help  those are the rules. Good.
Yes. And tomorrow? I have a high maintenance selling painter coming through... So I'm out. Can you take him?
Think white and get serious.
Take my car  a convertible. Do you drive?
Like the wind but I'm not doing it.
Okay... so I'll see you tomorrow. Let's not drag this out. We don't enjoy another that much.
If there's some mental health foundation that raises money to help people like you be sure to let me know.
Last word freak.
He's genuinely upsetting, isn't he?
Won't worry about it. You go ahead.
Hey, hey... Haaa... bad but temporary. The nurses say it's much better than you looked three weeks ago... the hand will come back... they're sure...
Jackie, will you hand me the mirror?
So, what's new anyway? How's Verdell?
Your neighbor  Udall  is taking care of him.
How could you do that? He'll hurt him.
No, I promise... not a chance. I own this guy. There was no one else. I'm on the move too much. Trust me.
You are very certain my dog is okay... because you have no idea...
Yes. Your dog is fine, Simon.
I'm sorry that I'm not taking you.
So am I, Frank.
Help!
If you want to see me you will not do this. You will make an appointment...
Explain to me how you can diagnose someone as "obsessive compulsive disorder" and then act like I have any choice in barging in.
There's not going to be a debate. You must leave.
You said you could help me  what was that  a tease?
I can help you if you take the responsibility to keep regular app 
You changed the room around...
Two years ago...
I also regrew my beard... but you're not interested in changes in me... so it's like I always told you... when it comes to people you...
Shhhhhhh. I don't have this mountain of available time... I got to get to my restaurant on time. Do you know how hard it is for me to be here?
Yes. No.
What the heck are those for?
No. No. Get Carol.
I'm filling in. We don't know if she's coming back. She might have to get a job closer to home.
What are you trying to do to me?
What the heck do you mean?
Hey, elephant girl, call her or something... just let her do my one meal here. I'll pay whatever. I'll wait. Do it!!!
I don't know the last time I've been out of the city... Hey, my arms are tanning. I used to tan great. We gotta stop soon so'se I can check on Spencer.
I'm sorry... I can't hear you. I can't turn my head all the way yet... tell her we can't hear her.
Do you want to know what happened with my parents?
Yes. I really would.
Well...
No, let me pull over so I can pay full attention.
I don't blame you... This is a monumental first day out... You sad or anything?
No... Nervous. It would be very rough, Carol, if you weren't along.
What a nice compliment.
Was this supposed to be your room?
Our room. I don't want to see him and he's not going to come knocking on your door.
Can you not be violent?
I don't think so. You need help with the pants?
No!!!
I'm going to take a big bath and order a big meal.
Uhhuh...
I'm sorry... are you okay?
Well, considering everything's horrible and tomorrow I have to face my parents... Don't ask me ... I'm sick of my own complaints ... got to get me a new set of thoughts.
Why? What have you been thinking about?
How to die, mostly.
Can you believe in our little mix you're the good roommate.
Good night.
Good night.
I've got to sketch you.
No... Absolutely not. I'm shyer than you think. I give the wrong impression sometimes and...
I haven't even been thinking about sketching for weeks.
Stop staring. Do a vase.
But you're beautiful... your skin glows.
Thanks. But I just want to take a bath and...
That long neck  the line of you... you're porcelain... your back goes on forever. You're classic... you're why cavemen chiseled on walls...
All right, cut me a break.
We held each other. It was better than sex. What I need he gave me great.
I just love her. How're you doing?
But what about...
I'll take care of myself 
One night with me!
You think you're kidding.
I love you... Let him take you home.
Don't want to. I love you.
I'm starving.
Will you please take it?
I know. He's just the best.
I've got Jews at my table.
It's not your table. It's the place's table. Behave. This once, you can sit at someone else's station.
The table's fine if it had some cholesterol on it. Two sausages, six bacon strips, fries, three eggs over easy and coffee.
You're gonna die soon with that diet, you know that?
We're all gonna die soon. I will. You will. It sure sounds like your son will.
Clippity clop  clippity clop  she has to pretend she doesn't hear me. Listening to the story from the upset friend... now she drops off the cappuccino and smiles at the putzette who doesn't even say, "Thank you." No, the putzette wanted the whipped cream so back she goes and now she has to pass him again and it's getting tougher to make believe.
Okay.
What's with the plastic picnic ware? Why not try ours... afraid it isn't clean?
I see the help  judgement call.
Just give yourself a little pep talk. "Must try other people's clean silverware as part of the fun of dining out."
What's wrong with your son, anyway?
What do you care?
He's gotta fight to breathe. His asthma can just shoot off the charts  he's allergic to dust and this is New York and his immune system bails on him when there's trouble so an ear infection... Is this bothering you?
No.
An ear infection can send us to the emergency room  maybe five, six times a month where I get whatever nineyearold they just made a doctor. Nice chatting with you.
His name?
Spencer.
Okay.
Spence.
So what are you doing with a dog?
Suckered in. Set up. Pushed around.
You're not worried that someone might take him?
Well, not until now  for Christ's sake.
Sorry.
It's okay  I'll sit here.
You know he's a little dog. Next time, if Bryan's not here, you can bring him in.
How old are you?
Oh, please...
If I had to guess by your eyes, I'd say you were fifty.
And if I had to guess by your eyes. I'd say you were kind. So, so much for eyes. But as long as you bring up age... how old are you?
Otherwise, you're not ugly.
Okay, pal... I accept the compliment, but go easy  my knees start aknocking when you turn on the charm full blast.
What's with the dark?
Last week I was playing the piano for him and he likes it, and so I decide I'm going to make a little joke...
You all set here?
I'm hungry. You've upset my whole day. I haven't eaten.
What are you doing here?
This is not a sexist thing. If you were a waiter I would still be here saying...
Are you totally gone? This is my private home...
I am trying to keep emotions out of this. Even though this is an important issue to me and I have strong feelings about the subject.
What subject? That I wasn't there to take crap from you and bring you eggs? Do you have any control over how creepy you allow yourself to get?
Yes, I do, as a matter of fact... and to prove it I have not gotten personal and you have. Why aren't you at work? You're not sick  you don't look sick... just very tired and bitter.
My son is sick, okay?
What about your mother?
How do you know about my mother?
I hear you talk when I'm waiting!!!
Sorry, honey... I'll be right there.
How ya doing?
Yeah, yeah... any chance you'll get back to work today?
No!!! Stay away from me!
Uh, Udall?
Carol the waitress?
Yes.
The doctors had your billing address. I'm sorry about the hour.
I was working... can't you just drop me a thankyou note?
That's not why I'm here... ... though you have no idea what it's like to have a real conversation with a doctor about Spencer...
Note. Put it in the note.
Why did yo do this for me?
To get you back at work so you can wait on me.
But you do have some idea how strange that sounds??? I'm worried that you did this because...
You waiting for me to say something? What sort of thing do you want? Look, I'll be at the restaurant tomorrow.
I don't think I can wait until tomorrow. This needs clearing up.
What needs clearing up?
I'm not going to sleep with you. I will never, ever sleep with you. Never. Not ever.
I'm not kidding.
Okay!!!! Anything else?!?
Just how grateful I am.
So you'll be at work?
Yes.
What's this?
A thankyou note for what you did for me.
Getting loud, getting loud.
He wants me to take his car and his client to Baltimore.
I want your life for a minute where my big problem is someone offers me a free convertible so I can get out of this city.
So. Anything else?
Yes. I'm going to give my queer neighbor a lift to Baltimore.
Okay.
Hey, what I did for you is working out?
What you did changed my life.
No... no thank you notes.
Well, part of what I said in this entire history of my life which you won't read is that somehow you've done more for my mother, my son and me, than anyone else ever has... And that makes you the most important, surprising, generous person I've ever met and that you be in our daily prayers forever.
Lovely.
I also wrote one part... I wrote I'm sorry... I was talking about I was sorry when I got mad at you when you came over and you told my son that he ought to answer back so I wrote that. I was sorry for busting you on that... and I'm sorry for busting in on you that night... when I said I was never... I was sorry and I'm sorry every time your food was cold and that you had to wait two seconds for a coffee filler...
Nice of you... thank you.
Thank you.
Now I want you to do something for me.
Oh, I'm sorry... Didn't I say, "what?" I thought I said, "what?"... What?
I want you to go on this trip.
No, sir...
I can't do this alone. I'm afraid he'll pull the stiff one eye on me. I need you to chaperon. Separate everything but cars. You said you liked convertibles. Now I'm on the hook.
The stiff one eye?
Two days.
I can't. I work.
You take off when you have to.
My son.
Bettes tells me he's doing fine.
Melvin, I'd rather not.
What's that got to do with it?
Funny, I thought it was a strong point.
Write me a note and ain't she sweet. I need a hand and where'd she go.
Are you saying accepting your help obligates me!?
Is there another way to see it?
No.
Hello?
Are you still coming?
Yes.
Melvin... I'd like to know exactly where we are going.
Just south to Baltimore, Maryland. So I know what you're going to ask next. That you might ask  I'm not certain.
There's... there's no need to bring anything dressy... or... I mean  I didn't know if we'd be eating at any restaurant that have dress codes.
Oh. We might. Yes. We can. Let's.
Okay, gotcha. What did you think I was going to ask?
Whether crabs are in season there now...
Oh. Okay, then  Melvin. Good night.
Hi.
Thanks for being on time... Carol, the waitress, this is Simon, the fag.
Hello... Oh, my God, who did that to you?
I was going to do that for you.
It's okay. No problem. Where should we sit?
I  uh, I... Well, there is no place cards or anything.
Let me go in back. You look like you need all the room you can manage.
Thanks, Melvin.
Welcome.
I'm sure, Simon, they did something real off for you to feel this way... But when it comes to your partners  or your kid  things will always be off for you unless you set it straight. Maybe this thing happened to you just to give you that chance.
Nonsense!
Anybody here who's interested in what Melvin has to say raise their hands.
Hey  you let him...
You like sad stories  you want mine.
... my father didn't leave his room for 11 years  he hit my hand with a yardstick if I made a mistake on the piano.
Go ahead, Simon. Your father walked in on you and was yelling and... really, come on.
That's not true. Some of us have great stories... pretty stories that take place at lakes with boats and friends and noodle salad. Just not anybody in this car. But lots of people  that's their story  good times and noodle salad... and that's what makes it hard. Not that you had it bad but being that pissed that so many had it good.
No.
No answer... Maybe we should just drive there tomorrow. Can I have that one?
Yes... sure. I'll take the sofa.
My son was outside playing soccer. I never saw him playing ball. Come on, you guys  take me out for a good time... Take me out dancing.
Dancing?
Stop asking everyone.
Just him and that's it. Okay, you can answer  we've worked it out.
No... I'm not wearing that  and just in case you were going to ask I'm not going to let you inject me with plaque either.
You promised a nice place  can't you just... You have these dry cleaned all the time, don't you?
You wanna dance?
I've been thinking about that since you brought it up before.
And?
No... ... I don't get this place. They make me buy an outfit but they let you wear a house dress. I don't get it.
No. Wait. What? Why? I didn't mean it. You gotta sit down. You can still give me the dirty look... just sit down and give it to me.
Melvin, pay me a compliment... I need one and quick... You have no idea how much what you said just hurt my feelings.
That monominute somebody gets that you need them they threaten to go away. Never fails.
That's not compliment, Melvin... That's just trying to sound smart so I feel stupid... A compliment is something nice about somebody else... Now or never.
Okay.
And mean it...
Can we order first?
Two crab dinners and pitcher of cold beer. Baked or fries?
Fries.
One baked  one fries.
I am so afraid you're about to say something awful...
Don't be pessimistic. It's not your style. Okay... Here I goes... Clearly a mistake. I have this  what? Ailment... And my doctor  a shrink... who I used to see all the time... he says 50 or 60 percent of the time a pill can really help. I hate pills. Very dangerous things, pills. "Hate," I am using the word "hate" about pills. My compliment is that when you came to my house that time and told me how you'd never  well, you were there, you know... The next morning I started taking these pills.
I don't quite get how that's a compliment for me.
That's maybe the best compliment of my life.
Then I've really overshot here 'cause I was aiming at just enough to keep you from walking out.
So how are you doing with those pills? Well, I hopahopahopa.
Takes months to know... They work little by little. Talking like this is exhausting.
Have you ever let a romantic moment make you do something you know is stupid?
Never.
Here's the trouble with never.
You don't owe me that.
That wasn't payment. When you first came into breakfast, when I saw you  I thought you were handsome... Then, of course, you spoke... So now that your soft li'l underbelly is all exposed. Tell me, why did you bring me?
Well, ah... that's a personal question.
Tell me even if you're scared. Tell me why you wanted me here. It's okay.
If you ask me... I'll say, "yes."
There are lots of reason... I had a thought that if you had sex with Simon it might...
Sex with Simon?
It's one idea...
That's why you brought me? Look at me! Is that really why you brought me... Like I'm a what and I owe you what?!
I don't know why I brought you  that idea occurred to me is all... It came out first... Hey, you kiss him  me... He says he loves you. You two hit it off. But you don't want to... fine... Forget what I said about sex with Simon. It was a mistake.
I'll never forget you said it.
It was a mistake.
Sorry, didn't realize she was right there. Did you have sex with her?
To hell with sex.
Nothing like no choice to make you feel at home.
Let me see... Ahh, gorgeous!
Do it then. Get the dog picked up. I can't believe you let it stay there.
I don't want to hear that music right now.
What do you mean? You said you liked it.
I don't.
This one has a special meaning.
It's your car but I don't want to hear it. If that means anything.
Here are the keys to my apartment. I'm going to park you in my place while I take Carol home.
I'll take a bus.
I'll take you... why not?
I don't care what you did for me. I don't think I want to know you anymore  all you do is make me feel badly about myself. You have my number.
Hello.
Yeah... Well...
How you doing?
I can trust my brain.
That seems like a good choice.
I don't know whether I'm being sensible or hard on you.
The two might go together.
See. There's an example. I don't know whether you're being cute or crazy now.
Cute.
You don't have to answer everything I say. Just listen to me. Okay?
Okay to say something now?
Go ahead.
I should've danced with you.
Okay. Goodbye.
So long.
What do you want, Melvin?
Were you asleep?
What do you want?
'Cause if you were asleep  I'm sorry. And you could be grouchy.
Grouchy?
... 'Cause of being woken up, and it would make my job impossible. So then I wouldn't even try.
What job?
Were you asleep?
What are you doing here?
I wasn't asleep!!
What a break...
Is it a secret what you're doing here?
I had to see you...
Because...
It relaxes me... I'd feel better just sitting on the curb in front of your house than anyplace else I can think of or imagine.
Boyfriend?
Oh, come on in and try not to ruin everything by being you.
Maybe we could live without the wise cracks.
It feels a little confined here. Let's take a walk.
See. It's four in the morning. A walk sounds a little screwy to me, if you don't mind.
If you need an excuse, there's a bakery on the corner. There's a shot it'll open soon  that way we're not screwy  we're just two people who like warm rolls.
Okay.
I'm feeling... I've been feeling better.
Melvin, even though it may seem that way now  you don't know me all that well... I'm not the answer for you.
Hey, I've got a great compliment for you.
You know what? I...
Just let me talk. I'm the only one on the face of the earth who realizes that you're the greatest woman on earth. I'm the only one who appreciates how amazing you are in every single thing you do  in every single thought you have... in how you are with Spencer  Spence... ... in how you say what you mean and how you almost always mean something that's all about being straight and good...
No! It's certainly not. No  I don't think so. No.
I'm gonna grab you. I didn't mean it to be a question. I'm gonna grab you.
What? Please? Now? Tell me?!
Mrs. Connelly. I'm Martin Bettes ... Dr. Bettes.
Not your name... what are you telling me your name for!! Where is he?
He's in the bathroom... He's fine.
Tell me how bad it is. I let him go out last night when it was so cool without an overshirt  just and underone with just the straps and I know better... and I let him talk me into it. He was whining and... you don't need this. Give me a second to catch hold.
My wife is Melvin Udall's publisher. She says I have to take great care of this guy because you're urgently needed back at work. What work do you do?
I'm a waitress.
How long has he been having problems?
Since forever.
Have they done blood tests on him?
Yes.
Only in the emergency room or when he was well.
Emergency room only.
Have they done skin testing for allergies?
No.
They haven't done the standard scratch test. Where they make small injections into the skin?
No. I asked. They said it's not covered under my plan. And it's not necessary anyway.
It's amazing these things weren't done.
Fucking H.M.O. bastard piece of shit... I'm sorry... forgive me.
No. Actually, I think that's their technical name.
Once the tests come back, is there someone I can reach in your office for the results?
Me. My home number is on this card.
His home number.
Do you want some juice or coffee or two female slaves?
Water... Nobody told you it might be a good idea to remove the carpeting and drapes in Spencer's room?
No.
Doc!!! So listen, you gotta let me know about the additional costs  one way or the other we'll...
They're considerable. But Mr. Udall wants to be billed.
I'm sorry.
Don't be silly. How bad?
Not bad.
Hi... Did you know there are doctors who come to your house?
No, I didn't. So why are you h...
He's good... And I'm an expert on doctors.
Stay out of this... Doctor?
Do you love me?
Uhhuh.
I didn't know you had a secret admire.
Huh?
You met the gift.
There is a seriously goofy man behind this. You are not allowed to block out that fact.
Do you really want to go back to the runt doctors in Emergency who keep telling us they can't help?
It lets a crazy man into our lives.
Come on. Why fight when we know how it will come out. This isn't like stocking or a string of pearls. You don't send this one back.
You're not still writing that thankyou note?
I'm on the last page. How do you spell conscience?
Conscience. I got Sean from the bakery to babysit so let's go out.
I still don't feel safe leaving Spencer with someone. How do you spell it again?
Spencer is okay. You'd better start finding something else to do with your free time. If you can't feel good about this break and step out a little... You ought to get Mr. Udall to send you over a psychiatrist.
I don't need one 'cause I know what's really going on here. I have to finish this letter or I'll go nuts. This can't be right  con science.
I don't know... It's very strange not feeling that stupid panic thing inside you all the time. Without that you just start thinking about yourself  and what does that ever get anybody. Today, on the bus there was this adorable couple and I felt myself giving them a dirty look  I had no idea everything was...
Go ahead.
... moving in the wrong direction... Away from when I even remembered what it was like to have a man to... anything... hold fucking  sorry  hands with, for Christ's sake. I was feeling like really bad that Dr. Bettes is married. Which is probably why I make poor Spencer hug me more than he wants to... Like the poor kid doesn't have enough problems. He has to make up for his mom not getting any. Oh, boy. Who needs these thoughts?
Spencer's doing fine. So what are you saying, that you're frustr...
Leave me be! Why are you doing this? Why are you picking at my sores... What is it that you want?... You want what? What's with you? I hope getting me thinking of everything that's wrong when all I want is to not do this has some purpose. What is it, Mom? No kidding.
What is it you want? What?
I want us to go out.
How was it talking to him?
Stop treating this like I'm going away with a man. He's just going to say those crappy, sick, complaining, angry things to me. I hate this, Mom  I hate this. He's a freak show  the worst person I ever met.
Well, maybe he has nice friends.
Call me as soon as you're settled.
I love you.
Stop it!! Why can't I have a normal boyfriend??? Why? Get out of here. Just a regular boyfriend who doesn't go nuts on me...
Everybody wants that, dear  it doesn't exit... Sorry... didn't mean to interrupt.
This is Sam Wilder, Marshal in Devil's Cauldron. Had some killings here. I got a suspect; be real nice if someone came and took him off my hands.
On a good day I couldn't spare a crosswalk guard. But now, no way. Folks're batshit with the weather turning sour. Bring him in yourself.
Next plane's not coming 'til next Monday.
Sit your suspect out in the cold. He'll keep.
This man's friends ain't gonna look favorably on his incarceration.
So shoot him. Won't have to feed him that way 
...Ben never sent a signal.
Musta never got a chance to more
Meaning he'll need a plane.
Closest planes for hire are here in Cache.
Hang on... Remember that Cessna we saw at the pumping station on the Haul Road? Belongs to the guy they got patrolling the pipeline.
Naah, Wilder knows we got friends in town.
That plane might've been to throw us off the track. Remember the baitandswitch Wilder pulled with the Eskimo and his truck?
Okay, let's backtrack, try to pick up his trail. You know the kid out on the pipeline that Wilder's buddies with?
We were just talking about him.
It's Sam Wilder!
Musta wanted to keep him from the bears. If Ben killed him, he sure as hell wouldn't hang him up like this.
Where's the kid?
There's what they're waiting on!
They'll have to come right past us.
LeMalle. We got a problem. Where's Mitchell?
Goddamn! Viking Bob! Mitchell's inside, boring bastard...
There you go. Wilder's always chummy with the fuckin' Bambilovers.
It's a long shot.
I called the cops in Fairbanks, see when Ben is standing trial. They don't know shit about Ben or Wilder!
Get the fuck out of here.
It's a threehour flight. They shoulda got there yesterday.
Maybe they went back to Devil's Cauldron.
Go easy.
Cool out. I ain't about to get blasted.
I ain't gonna leave a seven hundreddollar Remington behind.
What you gonna do with it? Large bore's for shit on small game.
Not in the right hands it ain't.
Thought that door was open last night...
Quit fucking around. Get in.
Look, we pull Ben's ass out of the fire, I'll get you a whole damn crate of Snickers bars.
I'm right fuckin' here with you.
You hear me? Ben?
Ease off. We do this my way.
Kenai's PA  but how the fuck she seein' us?
Doesn't matter. We know where they're going. C'mon.
Wilder's missing church services; you believe it?
I just as soon he stay gone. Fool could've got us all killed, arresting Ben Corbett here in town.
Why the smirk?
Bet I could make some money turning Ben Corbett in. Maybe more for lettin' him loose. I was up in my cache. Saw the Northland man come talk to you.
You're out of your greedy goddamn mind.
Corbett coming here stinks of trouble. We should make the best of it before it turns around and bites us in the ass.
Stay out of it.
He saw you and Corbett come in...
Dixie's waiting at the infirmary. She'll put a splint on that injured leg.
Dead. Trappers killed him.
Aw, Jesus. Told you this was trouble. What about you, big shot? Do something. Who's side are you on, anyway?
Bet you're right. But I didn't come by to wangle a meal 
 We appreciate the company. Anne Marie's getting cabin fever already.
What'd you say they call these spaceships?
Mobile Arctic Dwelling  MAD.
Hey, Sam, look over there. Black and white smoke.
Damn. Likely that's an SOS. Have to pass on that lunch.
We'll go with you.
I'm too old for this shit.
Any idea who could've done it?
...You give us a ride in the Cessna you got hangared at the pumping station, we'll be in Fairbanks in a few hours.
That's what we should've done in the first place.
I could've sat tight for the transport, 'til Bob came poking around.
Alleged killer.
What does this matter to you?
You can't see past your lousy little assignment, sniffing around the pipeline. The few voters there are in this district look up to Corbett, and I'm not about to alienate them.
I should release Corbett because you want some votes?
This miserable wilderness is a state of the union. Policy's made here the same way as in the civilized world: at the ballot box. That's the beauty of it  these icebox cowboys are living a century too late. Get them on your side, it's like buying Manhattan for beads. With a handful of votes you control the greatest frontier since white men stumbled onto the New World.
Some day these people'll wake up, and you'll be the first one they'll run out of here.
Nobody wants any more killings; we all agree to that, correct? That's good. Now, Eric, you're gonna hand your prisoner over to us.
Fuck you.
This isn't your concern. It's over, here and now.
Mr. Desmond! Arthur Neff. Area rep for the Federal Assistance Plan. Tell the boys in DC to keep those goodies coming.
Sure.
Snowplow, generator, TV dish... hell, we get the goddamn Playboy Channel! Here, this is for you.
You don't mind me saying, Mr. Desmond, you look like hell.
Have you heard anything from the girl staying with me, Anne Marie?
Not a damn thing. What's going on? Mr. Meyerling was here, all steamed up, looking for you.
Look, Neff, I've got Ben Corbett with me 
 Here?! Where's Wilder?
Back at my place... he, uh, broke his leg.
If Corbett's men find out 
 I'm putting him on the plane to Fairbanks, eleven tomorrow.
Jiminy Christmas. What do you want from me?
Corbett ruined my twoway. Go to my place on the Haul Road, tell Anne Marie I'm okay and to sit tight.
What's wrong?
Just stay out of my face until I'm gone!
I was just on my way to your ladyfriend's, but I guess she found you.
Yeah. Sorry I barked at you last night.
I'm the one should be sorry... Goddamn Kenai, always out for a score. I never should've let him go over there.
Look, Mr. Desmond, I didn't count on it turning this ugly.
What are you talking about?
Bastards killed Sam, you think they won't kill the rest of us?
There'll be three, four men at the most. I have some backup, nothing will happen.
I'm real sorry. In a while, you're gone from this country. But we live here. No one wants to mix it up with those hombres.
You don't care enough about Sam to 
 Sam Wilder was my cousin. He's why I came to Alaska. All his letters, saying what a paradise it is. But me ending up dead won't do Sam a lick of good.
Neff, you know better than this...
You're an outsider, Mr. Desmond. Step aside; stay out of it.
I need to rent a cabin.
What's the problem with Sam Wilder's place?
Will you rent me a cabin, or not?
Pretty clever: If the trappers got that signal beacon and get here in time, Sam's is the first place they'll look. They may figure you're waiting for an airplane, so you can't stay in the shack by the airstrip. Last place they'd expect you is on the far side of town. I can't afford any trouble 
 Here's a hundred dollars. And if you or anyone else will back me up on this 
 Forget it. And try not to bleed on my throw rugs. Why do this?
If you have to ask, you wouldn't understand.
Hullo, Sam. Slow day?
Ben...boys. Yeah, real slow, and I'd like to keep it that way.
Just passing through.
Relax. One more day without drink won't kill you. Right, Sam?
I'm living proof of that sad fact.
Can we buy the Marshal some dinner?
No, I better stay at my post.
You wouldn't shoot anyone...
But I would.
All this for laying traps on private land?
You left a footprint at the Sportsmen's camp. Only pretty sight there, Ben, 'cause the two men you didn't shoot and mutilate died of exposure.
Christ if I shouldn't know better than to step in soft earth. I've seen footprints in the tundra a hundred years old.
I got it from here. Thanks.
Sam, give Dixie here fifty bucks out of my kit, will you?
Sam, listen  I shot to defend my man. Other guy drew first.
If that was all, fine. But carving him up, stranding the others, that's too fucking much. Is everything that walks, crawls, flies or swims fair game to you?
I'll get loose before that plane comes.
Don't try me. I'll kill you if it comes to it.
You better get some sleep.
Good idea. Flying over mountains can give you some nasty surprises. Go too low, one of the clouds might have a big rock inside it.
Goddammit, I don't need this aggravation. I'll shoot you, Ben. Bank on it.
I don't want to hurt you, Sam.
I'm not too old to knock the snot out of you!
Nothing personal.
You got two counts against you  trapping out of season and poaching on restricted land.
Can't be much of a crime, if all they got minding the area is a cocky kid.
I got your plate number, asshole. Maybe you feel like spending a few months in jail.
Ben Corbett?
Yep. Afraid you have me at a disadvantage.
Kenai at the general store asked me to bring these. Didn't expect we'd already met.
No big deal. We just got off on the wrong foot. What's your name?
Desmond.
New to the country, kid?
Six months. Ecological study for Northland Oil.
Ecology. Folks use that term for everything but what it means: who's eating who.
Nice bluff the other day with the tranquilizer gun out your jeep window. See you again, maybe.
Yeah. Maybe so.
A lot to ask, dragging him away from such a goodlooking girl 
 To take you to jail? It'll be my pleasure.
Does he have people?
A daughter in Oregon.
Send him down to her. There's money in my duffel bag, back at his cabin.
Surviving is what I know 
 Killing is what you know. Pack some food while I prep for the flight. I'm sure not gonna let him go.
How the hell were they smart enough to find us?
Smart? Sure. That's why I'm sitting in this plane and they're down there blowing me kisses.
Been driving long?
I needed a pilot's license to take the job here, so I got one in six weeks.
That makes the flight more interesting.
Sounds like professional jealousy.
Hunting and trapping was a damn fine life. Me and Mitchell, Bob and LeMalle, we were teams. I'd always go with Mitchell. Good man, Mitchell. I'd let Bob worry about goddamn LeMalle. We'd hire a plane in October. On the way to a dirt airstrip somewhere, we'd drop supplies. We'd land, tell the pilot to come back for us a few days before Christmas.
Stay put!
You got the belly to look me in the eye and pull the trigger?
Next time you want to kill yourself, don't include me.
I took the odds on getting down in one piece, and I made it. Now we're in my territory.
With light clothing and no supplies, this is nobody's territory.
You sound like the tourists. Knowitalls who read about survival in a magazine. Fuck you. You won't make it off this mountain.
I'm not gonna carry you out of here.
That's right. You're not.
Look, take these cuffs off. We need to work together.
Why in hell you care enough about me to die taking me in?
I don't plan on dying.
We'll stop here, dig out a snow shelter.
Snow shelter. Okay. You dig. I'll have a little sitdown.
Still quite a hike to Devil's Cauldron. Days. A long stretch to go without sleep, my friend. You can hide behind that pistol for now, but take your eyes off me long enough to sneeze 
 Turn around.
Ice is too thin  you can see the water moving underneath.
We're not sitting here 'til November. There's a cargo plane coming to Devil's Cauldron in four days, and I'm putting you on it.
We get wet, we freeze to death in a couple hours.
I've been on ice like this when I was a kid, skating. Spread your weight, keep moving. Go on.
Be my guest.
I'm right behind you.
Most dangerous thing in the world: A regular Joe, in over his head. You trying to prove how tough you are for me, or for yourself?
It wasn't my idea to crash the plane.
Let's camp. There's grayling under this ice. I'll snare some for dinner.
We've got another two hours of daylight.
Pushing it is flat wrong. All you prove is your ignorance about breaking trail.
Have to backtrack, find another way down.
Forget it. It would take days.
Going to be a bit of a challenge with handcuffs on.
Damn lucky this storm didn't blow down when we were on those baldheaded mountains. It continues, we better stay put.
It could blow over tomorrow, too.
I'm still figuring: You're either real brave or real dumb.
Where in hell Meyerling dig you up?
You know Meyerling?
Sure. The People's Friend. Kiss your ass with precision if there's a vote in it.
Sure love to know where you fit in up here.
I'm here to do my job.
You want to fool yourself about that bullshit job, fine. Damn shame you have to drag your girlfriend along. You think a woman like that will be happy making moose stew for a man more
Folks come to Alaska for a real short list of reasons: Money. Adventure. Solitude. Those cover most everyone. But frontiers also draw another type of man. One with a demon in his gut. He comes to the edge of the world to face that demon, and lay it to rest.
Yeah?
Yep. Sometimes they do, but usually they end up crazy or dead.
There's a cabin, maybe twenty miles south of here.
Too bad we're heading west.
There's a snowmobile. Inside a day we could be on the Yukon. I got money there. Remember that five thousand? Make it ten. Be smart. Take it and walk away.
You don't get it, do you?
Have to get these wet things off.
You're not going to slow us down! Keep moving!
Stay awake! You want to go hypothermic?
If that means freeze my balls off, no thanks. I'll be okay.
Told you I'm fine!
How many do you see?
What?! Fuck off. Save yourself.
You don't feel cold?
It's a spring day...
Stay still.
Where's my ELT?
Emergency transmitter? All your gear is back at Wilder's.
You got one?
It was blown up with the plane.
Too bad. We'd be out of here in a few hours.
I'm hungry. Go kill me some dinner.
An appetite. Maybe you won't die after all.
Hate to disappoint you.
Nome? I figure you'd be a whaler, coming from there.
Told that's what our old man was. Planned on going to sea, me and Bob, 'til I read Jack London. Started trapping when I was ten. Mailed the furs to Sears. Eight bucks for a skunk, three for a muskrat. That was fine money.
Killing wildlife not good enough anymore, so you go on to bigger and better things.
You got a knack for seeing things the way you want to see them.
Don't judge me. You're a joke, coming here from a fuckedup culture, telling us what to do!
Yeah, it is fucked up  but it's not too late to keep that from happening here.
All you do is keep folks from working the land, living like they're meant to. You don't understand shit! Trappers, hunters  we're part of the environment. Who's protecting us? I've seen plenty like you. So more
What do you know about people? You live like an animal! A savage goddamn throwback like you belongs out here, as far away from the rest of us as possible.
I'm real sad you don't approve of me.
Don't push me..!
Cowardly bastard. I'm in handcuffs and I still scare the piss out of you.
They think you're in Fairbanks. If not, they still won't find you before the plane comes tomorrow.
Don't bet on it.
I already have.
You don't know how true that is.
Maybe...maybe not. I'll tell you what scares me  stumbling through life, like an ordinary jerk. That's why I want to work on the front lines, where what I do means something. Soon as I got here, I realized my job was bullshit. Oil company propaganda. I was ready to leave, then I thought screw it, I'll outsmart them, do the work anyway. I don't know anymore. Maybe I am fooling myself. That's what I'm afraid of most of all.
Hell, I still get a knot in my gut every season, wondering how much longer I can go on. No 'Home for Retired Trappers' that more
Talk to that goodlooking girl of yours?
You broke the radio, remember?
I'm sure she's fine. Seemed like a clever kid.
You were real resourceful out there. Got me thinking of this perimeter man, froze all his fingers one winter. So he hacked the tips off and sharpened the exposed bones. Gets along better than ever. Yeah, maybe I underestimated you.
I liked you better frozen. You didn't talk so much.
You're damn lucky, glimpsing this country before it's ruined, gone for good. You saw wonders you'd only dreamed of. That alone makes you different than the sorry bastards back where you came from, because you have dreamt them.
Emergency transmitter? What happened to signal mirrors or twotone smoke fires?
Lets us watch each other's backs over a wide area. Only thing messed me up this time was getting arrested in the baths. ELT was in my duffel bag, not around my neck where it should've been.
No way they'll find you on a fiveminute signal. And no way more
Maybe you can talk sense into your boyfriend.
Shut up!
CORBETT +++$+++
Answer and I'll shoot!
You kill me, you sign your death warrant. And hers.
Snow's to their advantage, kid. You can't see them, but soon as that plane comes, they'll sure as hell know where we're going. Wise up. Take me to the Yukon. I'll give you that money and guarantee you'll walk away.
Why offer a buyoff with your gunmen waiting outside?
The time has passed for men like them and me. I know it. But they're still fighting for survival, like cornered animals. That's why they'll kill you. more
Can you walk?
Wound's a throughandthrough. Missed my liver, I think.
Let's get out of here.
How come you didn't let him shoot me?
Like I said, I'd still be up on that mountain, frozen solid, it wasn't for you.
We'll get you to a hospital, soon as we get to Fairbanks.
Look down there, tell me what any of this matters. Struggles of men get swallowed by the bigness. Soon there won't be a trace of our troubles... or us.
You're wrong. Everything we do leaves its mark. You said it yourself  there are hundred yearold footprints in the tundra.
Leave it here.
Let's keep going. We're only an hour from Devil's Cauldron.
Relax. I just want to ask them how the hunting is.
Had no choice... ...Given the situation.
I know. Least you didn't shoot all of them.
Go ahead. Take the jeep. I'll come to Cache with Bob when he gets here.
Okay by me. You're the one likes these hot springs so much.
Leave my traps. We'll tag up, couple days.
He's coming around fine.
Be right back. I left my camcorder in the car.
What are you doing?
He still might be around. I saw fresh tire tracks coming in.
Stay here.
Be careful  there're two of them.
Great idea  pointing a lousy dart gun at some nut with a highpowered hunting rifle.
Bastards took off, though, didn't they?
Thanks.
I bet you haven't had lunch.
I call it 'the Turtle,' as in carrying your home on your back.
Best thing is, Meyerling has to chase around to find us.
The little creep hates it that Eric actually does what the company hired him to do.
I'll go into town with you.
Eric, leave it alone. It's not your business.
No way can he get away with this. I'll be back by tonight.
Did you catch Corbett?
Sure did. He was one of the trappers we rousted from the Haul Road.
Was there any trouble?
He was sitting in a hot tub with a hooker.
Going after killers isn't the same as chasing poachers, Eric.
Can't help myself. Corbett's type always pisses me off. Oh, I found this at the post office. Had your name on it.
Oh, sweetheart. It's beautiful!
You were looking at it in the catalog. Don't know where you can wear it...
I'll wear it for you. And I can wear it when we go home. We won't be here forever.
You make it sound like a prison sentence.
That's not what I meant.
It's exactly what you meant.
Look, why get into this again. As long as it's working, let's leave it alone. It's been nice so far. We're together 
 Permanently?
Do I want to be with you permanently? Yes, I think I do. But be with what you do and the way you live? That I don't know. C'mon, Eric, until I met you, coming back to Alaska was totally
I still can't believe I'm being financed by an oil company. Especially when they get a look at these pictures. Technology in the wilderness; not too pretty. What's that?
I thought I should check our emergency transmitters.
Winter. Two straight months of night  we may never get out of bed. Which would suit me fine.
Prolonged darkness makes people crazy.
Not me. I'm equipped.
Hightech in the wilderness. Gets me excited, too.
Come here...
Let's go.
Wait a second.
Maybe you should drive him into Devil's Cauldron, let them decide what to do with him.
Fairbanks is a threehour flight. I'll be back by dinnertime.
Be careful, okay?
That's my line.
Oh, Christ, sweetheart. Four days! I thought you were dead, or worse.
You can't stay here. Go back to the Turtle. I'll meet you back there in a few hours.
What's going on?
I'll tell you everything later.
Where's Corbett?
Here. A transport plane is due at eleven. Once I put him on it, it's all over.
So what's the problem?
Please, Anne Marie, you being here only complicates things.
I'm staying.
You're hurt.
Nothing broken. C'mon, we have to hurry.
Technology in the wilderness. Only problem is talking to you on your way to the landing strip.
I've got an idea. We'll have to work fast.
When you ran off, I thought you'd keep going 'til you were back home in Washington.
My home is here. With you.
Have you talked to Eric?
I have not, but I very much want to. What do you know about the trouble in Devil's Cauldron?
I was hoping you had some news 
 Get this straight: I'm the District Supervisor. Whatever you do reflects on me. It wasn't my idea to bring you people up here, but I'm stuck with you. You are absolutely not to involve yourself in any local disputes. Whichever side you take, you alienate the other. Mr. Corbett is quite wellknown in this region. People admire him 
 Corbett's a killer.
What happened here?
The radio's on the fritz.
Where'd you say Eric is?
Somewhere along the pipeline.
What about that hotheaded marshal, Sam Wilder? I heard he was in the middle of this mess.
Sam? We haven't seen him.
Really. I thought maybe that was his snowmobile outside. By the way  your truck also 'on the fritz?'
Why?
It's out by the pumping station, shot full of holes.
How long have you been up north?
Six months.
Can't be. Too keen a sense of this place in your pictures.
My dad was a Navy doctor.
Knew you had no native blood, even with your dark hair. Blue eyes give you away. My wife had blue eyes.
Had?
She's dead.
Oh.
Had some good years. Met her in '66. She showed up one day in Coldfoot. No one knew her. One Sunday morning, she marched into a bar and announced she was available as a wife to the highest bidder. Didn't work out in three months, she'd return the money and leave, no hard feelings. My bid was eight thousand dollars. Beautiful girl.
How did she..?
I was gone, in September, laying traplines. She went to our cache for some meat. Got mauled by a bear. Tore open her skull. more
What about you  why come back? Classy girl like you seems more suited to the finer things.
That's why I left, moved to Washington. When I met Eric I was doing day shoots  products and fashion, mostly. Pretty dull. Eric was teaching college, and then he got the job with Northland Oil. We wanted to stay together, so we talked them into funding some wilderness photography... and here I am.
You should know something.
I don't want to talk any more.
Wasn't my intention to hurt Wilder. I'm telling you the truth. I liked the man. I only meant to get loose... to survive. Your cheechako boyfriend better understand that. Listen, I've got some money put away 
26 CONTINUED:
I was making my rounds, saw your hangar wide open, plane getting rained on, so I closed it up.
Watch it with Meyerling. Man's as mean and corrupt as they get. Cut his mother's throat if it'd get him a couple votes.
26 CONTINUED:
27 CONTINUED:
Question is why they sat here when the storm moved in. Check their stuff while I sniff around.
A certain sonofabitch bastard more
28 CONTINUED:
39 CONTINUED:
Back against the bars. Now.
Avalanche season is coming.
43 CONTINUED:
48 CONTINUED:
I'll get you there all right.
Let's go.
94 CONTINUED:
95 CONTINUED:
It'll be interesting, trying to build a fire without any wood.
113 CONTINUED:
I just want this over with.
119 CONTINUED:
How? Nobody this far north monitors that frequency until avalanche season. Besides, I'm surprised a tough guy like you uses fancy electronics.
...I won't let a killer walk!
157 CONTINUED:
165 CONTINUED:
There isn't one, unless Corbett's men get here before the plane does.
165 CONTINUED:
I'd sure like that favor you offered a while back.
You'll catch a chill by that dumb waiter shaft. Sit on the cot. Keep this pointed at him if I get preoccupied.
168 CONTINUED:
184 CONTINUED:
Your infrared camera?
212 CONTINUED:
Keep back.
20 CONTINUED:
You can pack out of here  two, three days' hike along this river at most. Weather should hold this early in the season.
23 CONTINUED:
Needs patching.
Hard to work up an interest in politics, way we live. You're the first people we've seen in two weeks.
23 CONTINUED:
30 CONTINUED:
Now, why don't you get around to saying what you want.
34 CONTINUED:
Mind if I get some stuff from my kit?
See the blood? Pack of wolves took down a moose. Greedy, gutripping sons of bitches. I'd kill the last wolf on earth, right in front of the President of the U.S. Stinking, cowardly predator, the wolf.
89 CONTINUED:
102 CONTINUED:
Wait 'til I'm across!
You talk about ecology  there it is.
107 CONTINUED:
117 CONTINUED:
Inside of three hours you'd be dragging my dead carcass.
134 CONTINUED:
Used to see the natives eating roots when I was a kid in Nome.
First you save my ass, now you want to kill me. Make up your goddamn mind.
134 CONTINUED:
What makes you so sure my boys won't be waiting for us?
139 CONTINUED:
Remember that demon in the gut? Sometimes it's nothing more than wondering if the socalled civilized life has bred the balls and brains out of you. That's what you want out of this, isn't it?
150 CONTINUED:
Relax. I got a nervous man here with a magnum up my nose.
175 CONTINUED:
215 CONTINUED:
So they can patch me up and put me in a cage? Forget it. Meyerling's right  I'm a dinosaur. Greedy bastards like him, it's their turn with this land. Put me in the woods, let me live or die on my own.
That's 27, sir.
Anyone got a card?
Soldier  where''s your C.O.?
Stepped on a booby trap, sir  got blown all to hell 
Well , who's in command here?
I don't know  don't have any idea  I'm just the night man 
You came right to it, son of a bitch 
Son of a bitch, sir.
Where's your chief supply officer?
Beverly Hills 
What?
Straight up the road  a concrete bunker  Beverly Hills  where else you think he'd be?
C'mon 
I don't know anything about these papers, sir.
They're in order  it's perfectly clean  just check with ComSec Intel like I said.
Well, you know I don't have the priority to do that, sir. It says here not to contact ComSec Int. Who's your commanding officer ?
Right now  I am.
Well who the hell verifies that ?
I do.
What show ?
Big show in the parade grounds this noon  some boss stuff 
This  Bob Hope or the like 
No sir, I think  this'll be a little bit different 
May I ask where the Captain is going in his little boat?
We were going upriver when we got caught in a storm, ma'am.
You must realize, Captain  we have lost much here  I, my husband. Gaston  his wife and son.
I'm sorry to hear that.
Cognac?
I should be checking on the boat.
The war will still be here tomorrow.
Do you miss your home, Captain? Have you someone there?
No. Not really.
What will you do after the war?
I just follow my footsteps, one at a time, trying to answer the little questions and staying away from the big ones.
What's a big question?
Kurtz. I know you've heard of him.
Yes.
What did you hear?
That strange things.. terrible things have occured around this American, Kurtz.
What things?
Gaston would never tell me. It was asubject not to be spoken of, Captain.
Yes.
Did you know  deeper in the jungle, upriver  there are savages?
I know.
But Captain, I mean  cannibals.
Are you warm, Captain?
The river is beautiful.
I'm afraid I won't have time  I gotta 
Whe you reach the boat you will find that half your fifty calibre stores  a case of grenades, a mortar and two M16's and a case of clips are being transfered to us by your order.
So that's it.
You may think what you wish, Captain, but I like you very much.
What if I say no.
Then Philippe will have to kill all of you.
This boat's a mess.
Where's Kurtz? I want to talk to him.
Oh, you don't talk to Colonel Kurtz. You listen to him. God, these are good. I kept these people off you, you know. It wasn't easy.
Why did they attack us?
Simple. They don't want him to go.
You're Australian?
PreAustralian, actually. But I'd dig goin' to California. I'm California dreamin'.
So Kurtz is alive.
Kurtz. I tell you, that man has enlarged my mind.
But lemme tell you, he is the most dangerous thing in every way that I've come on so far. He wanted to shoot me. The first thing he said is, 'I'm going to shoot you because you are a deserter.' I said I didn't desert from your army, I deserted from my army. He said, 'I'm going to shoot you just the same.'
Why didn't he shoot you?
I've asked myself that question. I said to myself, why didn't he shoot me? He didn't shoot me, because I had a stash like you wouldn't believe. I hid it in the jungle; the wealth of the Orient: Marijuana  Hashish  Opium  cocaine  uncut Heroin; the Gold of the Golden Triangle. and Acid  I make Koolaid that makes purple Owsley come on like piss. Now I'm Kurtz' own Disciple  I listen he talks. About everything ! Everything. I forgot there's such a thing as sleep. Everything. Of love, too.
Sounds like he's gone crazy.
No, Colonel Kurtz couldn't be crazy  if you heard him talk, just last week, you'd never think he was crazy.
Is that where he is? By the shrunken heads.
Those heads, yes. Well, the rebels...
We're going ashore. Tie her up  and leave your guns up, Lance.
Right on  he's been waiting for 
And shut up.
Who are you?
His name is...
I'm not ever goin' to tell you to shut up again.
Captain Willard?
That's me.
Captain Willard  we got these from Nha Thrang two days ago  they expected you here then 
You don't know how happy that makes me, sir.
Why?
Now I can get out a here  if I can find a way out.
We'll be needing some supplies and fuel  do you know anybody who can give me a hand?
I'd just clear out as soon as I could if I were you, sir. They're gonna start working on the bridge with torches again. Charlie will start throwing it in hard 
What is this bridge?
It's of strategic importance for keeping the highway into Bat Shan open  the generals don't like to admit that Bat Shan is surrounded.
Maybe he'll get tubed.
What?
Maybe he'll get inside the tube  where  where they can't see him.
What's that?
Just something I read in the Free Press.
He'll kill us.
He can't kill us. We're on his side.
Are you finished surfing?
Yeah... thanks.
Want to say goodbye to the Colonel?
Nah.
Then let's get the hell out of here.
No  no, Captain.
Which one's the Colonel's?
The Yater  the clear one with the thin stringer.
This one , Lance?
Yeah, Jesus Christ !
Maybe we better stay in under the trees till dark  we got his Yater.
He didn't look like he'd take that sitting down.
You hear it again?
No  I don't think so. But it'll be back. They were circling. It'll be back.
You think he'd of shot us?
When?
Any time  us  Americans.
I don't think he'd of shot us on the beach but  he'd of shot us if he saw me taking the board 
A Yater spoon is hard to get  especially here.
He's a man who knows what he wants  he does know what he wants.
Captain  that was all true about the rats and chocolate and stuff?
Sure.
And you could just tell when the supplies were booby trapped?
It's a feeling you get in the jungle. When you get good, you can find a track and tell not only how many they are, but their morale, how far they're going, whether they're near their camp, the weapons they're carrying.
What's this tiger shit?
No shit... I think I shot the hell out of him.
You think?
I wasn't looking.. I was running.
The other one 
No  leave it 
What?
Bring your rifles, that's all. Take us to him.
Did you know him very well?
You get to know each other pretty well out there.
And you admired him?
He was a remarkable man. It was impossible not to 
Love him... Yes, it is true. That's the hard part for me... I knew him better than anyone ... I knew him best.
You knew him best.
You were his friend... You must have been, if he had given you this... If he sent you to his home. He was the best this country had  he was 
Yes, I know...
I'll never get over it  But I'll always remember him...
Both of us...
Men looked up to him... He died as he lived...
His death was  yes, he died as he lived.
Were you with him, when...
Yes I was... He said his last words to me.
Colonel Kurtz, I guess.
I'm Kurtz.
Captain B.L. Willard reporting his presence, sir.
Why did you come to ... my province.
We were attacked  down river. We need supplies and medical help.
You were not coming here, to see me?
No  no, sir.
You came up my river  in that small boat. So simple. I always thought the final justice would come from the sky, like we did. You are the final justice, aren't you?
What do you mean, Colonel?
What other reason could you have come? A Captain. Ranger. Paratrooper. Graduate of the Recondo School. Am I right about these things?
You know you're right.
Do you know me?
Yes.
Yeah, I can see that. He's fuckin nuts 
Yeah.
I said get the fuck out ! I'm going to kill the little weirdo myself tomorrow. He's only stayed alive this long because he's a good orderly and medic. He knows how to use a hypodermic.
You're gonna get hit tonight, bad  a whole regiment of NVA regulars.
That's right, the little gook pricks. But they are noble little gookpricks, noble. Because they fight with their guts, like animals. And for an idea ! That's rich. We fight with ingenious machines and fire, like Gods, and for nothing. But I'll call in a major blotto airstrike tonight. We'll have ourselves a helluva airstrike tonight, a lightshow. How do you like The Doors': 'C'mon Baby Light My Fire...'
Do you?
Yeah, I like it...
I love it.
You've gone crazy.
No. My thinking is clear. But my soul has gone mad.
No  I don't want to sleep. I want to think. Water. Give me water.
You can't have water after morphine.
Still playing by the rules. You're a damn good kiler.
How's the pain?
How's yours?
I can handle it.
Pain is easy to handle  but nobility.. the nobility of a man is judged by how much Truth he can handle.
What Truth?
The truth that you were sent here to murder me, ans so far you haven't done it. And do you know why? Yes, you know why. Your mission makes about as much sense as those idiots who sent you on it. Asshole ! Schmuck ! How long does it take you to figure out that nobody knows what they're doing here. Except me.
Gimme water.
No water.
You know what you're doing? You are interfering with my plans !
How did we get here?
Because of all the things we do, the thing we do best  is lie.
I think think a lie stinks.
Oh Captain, that is so true.
Stinks. I could never figure  I could never figure how they can teach boys how to bomb villages with napalm  and not let them write the word 'fuck' on their airplanes.
You could never figure it because it doesn't make sense.
Fuck no.
I'll tell you what makes sense ! Air strikes ! White Phosphorus ! Napalm ! We'll bomb the shit out of them if they don't do what we want.
We'll exterminate the fuckers !
Go away  hide yourself.
What are you doing?
Going back  to the jungle to die.
I'm taking you back. You can still live.
I had immense plans.
I'm gonna get you out of here.
I was on threshold of great things.
My river... my people... my jungle... my ideas... my country... my wife... ... my death.
You had immense plans... immense plans...
Yes...
I'm taking you back.
Captain BL. Willard, sir  4th Recon Group  I carry priority papers from ComSec Intelligence 11 Corp  I believe you understand the nature of my mission.
Yeah  Na Trang told me to expect you  we'll see what we can do. Just stay out of my way till this is done, Captain.
My orders are from ComSec Intel  B.L. Willard, 4th Recon 
Just hold up a second, Captain  I'll get to you soon enough  We've got things to do here.
Why the hell you wanna go up to Nu Mung Ba for?
I got bored in Saigon.
What's the furthest you been in?
Haiphong.
Haiphong? Shit, you jump in ?
No. Walked.
What'd you do for supplies?
Mercenaries  agents, traitors  they put out caches.
Can you trust them?
No. They put out two or three for every one I needed. When you get to the one you'll use, you just stake it out. If something feels wrong, you just pass it up. On one mission, I had to pass up three and ended up living on rats and chocolate bars.
Nu Mung Ba. Last I heard, Walter Kurtz commanded a Green Beret detachment at Nu Mung Ba.
When did you hear?
'Bout a year ago? Is Kurtz still alive?
Who knows.
Seems to me he got himself fragged. i heard some grunt rolled a grenade in his tent. Maybe a rumor. Helluva man  remarkable officer. Walter Kurtz woulda been a General some day. General of the Army. Shit, Head of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. Did you knew Kurtz?
I met him.
Don't you agree?
He musta changed ! I got to get into the Nung River, here or here.
That village you're pointing at is kinda hairy.
Hairy ?
I mean it's hairy  they got some pretty heavy ordnance, boy  I've lost a few recon ships in there now and again.
So? I heard you had a good bunch of killers here.
And I don't intend to get some of them chewed up just to get your tub put in the mouth of the goddman Nung River. You say you don't know Kurtz?
I met him.
You talk like him. I don't mind taking casualties, Captain, but I like to keep my ratio ten to one in this unit  ten Cong to one.
You'll find enough Cong up there.
What about this point here?
We'll come in low out of the rising sun  We'll put on the music about a mile out.
Music?
Yeah. Classical stuff  scares the hell out of the slopes  the boys love it.
Fucking savages.
Who?
The enemy. Who else?
Sonuvabitch  anybody hurt?
Automatic weapons flashes along those trees  probably eleven millimeter guns and AK47's.
The trees, eh...
I'm waiting for the fucking boat, Colonel.
It'll get here, soldier.
You know, some day this war's gonna end..
Yes, I know.
It's gonna blow this place out. It's gonna ruin it ...
The kid can't ride sloppy waves.
Big Duke Six to Hell's Angels Four  bring it in on along tree line and huts.
Hell's Angels Four to Big Duke Six  we'll need green smoke  suggest you have the FAC mark it.
Haven't got time, Hell's Angels  lay it right up the tree line.
This is Baker Delta Four  Captain hit bad  need dustoff. Receiving heavy automatic weapons fire from huts about thirty yards to our left.
Big Duke Six to Baker Delta Four  hold  we're right over you.
Eagle Thrust Four  Big Duke Six. Join me in sparaying some trees.
Affirmative, Big Duke Six  We're even got some rockets left.
Take her in low, Lieutenant.
Mike, you know anything about the point at Vin Drip Drop?
Boss left.
What do you mean?
It's really long left slide, breaks on the short side of the point  catches a south swell.
Why the hell didn't you tell me about that place  a good left. There aren't any good left slides in this whole, shitty country. It's all goddamn beach break.
It's hairy ,though. That's where we lost McDonnel  they shot the hell out of us. It's Charlie's point.
How big it is?
Six to eight feet.
Change.
Wh  what?
Change  get out there  I want'a see if it's ridable  change.
It's still pretty hairy, sir.
You want'a surf, soldier?
What's your name, sailor ?
Gunner's Mate, Third Class  L. Johnson, sir.
Lance Johnson? The surfer?
That's right, sir.
It's an honor to meet you Lance. I've admired your noseriding for years  I like your cutback, too. I think you have the best cutback there is.
Thank you, sir.
You can cut out the sir, Lance  I'm Bill kilgore  I'm a goofy foot.
Where've you been riding, Lance?
I haven't surfed since I got here.
That's terrible  we'll change that  I'd like to see you work  I've always liked your cutback; got a hell of a left turn, too.
Good swell.
What, sir?
I said it's a good swell  hell of a good swell 'bout six feet. Let's get a look at it.
You think that section on the point is ridable, Lance?
I think we ought to wait for the tide to come in.
They far enough?
Sure  fine 
You smell that. You smell that?
What?
Napalm, boy  nothing else in the world smells like that 
The wind 
What?
Yeah, I'm an artist, goddamit !
Yeah  yeah, I can understand how you feel.
Fifty calibers, eh, Captain 
As I said, we can pay you in gold.
Entirely unnecessary, Captain.
American weapons?
We took them from the dead. Now  I assume you want to rest, to shower. We'll attend to your repairs after dinner.
We don't want to bother you any, we 
A man of war is never bothered to aid an ally  you will follow me, Captain.
A habit of men of war, sir  you understand.
Of course, Captain  an unfortunate necessity.
It is very good  there is no current  It is very good. I have never seen one like it in all Indochina. I was in Paris when it arrived  do you know what might have caused 
Looks like a two thousand pound to me. Yeah, a two thousand pound bomb.
No, I've seen those in Normandy. This is much better. My country  my country could never originate this. Magnificent.
Attacks repulsed, as I was saying. This is only for this war, Captain. Viet Cong  54; North Vietnamese regular forces  15; South Vietnamese  28  regular forces and otherwise. Americain  6. Of course, they were, perhaps, mistakes, Captain.
Of course. I  Once we make our repairs, we could send word, we could have you evacuated from here.
Captain?
You'll get blown outta here some day.
We will never 'evacuate', Captain  this is our home. Indochina is ours; it has been so for a hundred and twentyone years, there is something to say for that.
The Vietnamese think it's theirs  I guess the Americans do, too.
But we civilized it. A place belongs to those who bring light to it, don't you agree.
I always thought the French came here to get the rubber.
Upriver? Why upriver? There is nothing there, only jungle.
Do you know that jungle?
When I was a boy, my father would take me there, to hunt. There are a few savages, but no man can live there, no white man.
What about an American named Kurtz?
Two of my men deserted last night. It happens from time to time. I assume my daughter told you of our conditions.
Your daughter.
I guess this is whAt men of war do  eh?
We endure, captain  you can blow up the house and we will live in the cellar  destroy that and we'll dig a hole in the jungle and sleep on it. Burn the forest and we'll hide in the swamp. all the while, we do but one thing  clean the blood off our bayonets. Au revoir, Captain.
Captain B.L. Willard, G4 Headquarters, reporting as ordered, sir.
Okay, Willard, sit down.
No, sir.
This gentleman or myself ?
No, sir.
I believe on your last job you executed a tax collector in Kontum, is that right ?
I am not presently disposed to discuss that, sir.
You know much about about Special Forces; Green Berets, Captain ?
I've worked with them on occasions and I saw the movie , sir.
Yeah.
He's commanding the detachment at Nu Mung Ba.
I thought he was a lame.
A lame ?
This is years ago, before he joined Special Forces, I guess. We had an argument.
About what ?
I don't know. He was a lame, that's all.
But why ?
He couldn't get through a sentence without all these big words; about why we kill.
Well, he's killing now.
Maybe.
What  happened here.
Charlie?
NVA regulars. They're coming again tonight. Tet  their big  assault.
Who is he?
He was the tragedy  the tragedy of this war.
How did they know?
They must have seen the fire.
Yeah.
Colonel Kurtz, he's dead.
Yeah.
Hey, buddy, that boat still runs, eh?
Yeah, it still runs.
Do me a favor buddy, please.
What is it?
It's to everyone I really knew  the first girl I screwed  my brother  best friend  I wanted to tell 'em how much I enjoyed knowing 'em  it's been a great twenty years. I gotta let 'em know.
What're you askin' me for  put 'em in the first helicopter comes in tomorrow.
Nobody comes in here.
You got a chance in that boat  by morning you could be five miles down the river.
We ain't goin' down the river.
Spooky.
Charlie?
No, it'd be spooky without the war  give 'em back.
What do you want ?
If you're B.L. Willard, 4th Recon Group, we'd like you to come with us.
Whose orders ?
I only met Kurtz once.
Would he remember you ?
Maybe.
You didn't like him.
Anyone got a cigarette.
What does that mean ?
Maybe it's not Kurtz. I don't believe he's capable of that. I just don't believe it.
Our Recon flight ?
Ours.
Touchy.
You can see, of course, the implications, if any of this  even rumours leaked out.
You want me to clean it up  simple and quiet.
Exactly  you'll go up the Nung River in a Navy P.B.R.  appear at Nu Mung Ba as if by accident, reestablish your acquintance with Colonel Kurtz, find out what's happened  and why. Then terminate his command.
Terminate ?
Terminate with extreme prejudice.
Anybody see some smoke ?
Too far inland.
What cat ?
One that went up for murder  he was an Army Sergeant.
I never heard about that.
Yeah  he really dug his Playboy mag, man  I mean like he was there when it arrived  He just knew.
They nail him for it bad ?
He's in the L.B.J.  didn't give him no medals or nothing 
Forget that extra drum  it's too damn hot.
Clear on starboard  Where's Lance an' the Captain?
I saw that Colonel's Huey on the point 
Jesus  that guy's too damn much.
I wonder if that was the same copter.
I met the P.B.R. crew; they were pretty much all kids, except for Phillips, the Chief  Gunner's Mate Third Class L. Johnson  Lance Johnson; Gunner's Mate Third Class J. Hicks  The Chef  Radio Operator Second Class T. Miller; they called him Mr. Clean.
Chief, try to keep out of where we're going  Why we're goin' and what's gonna be the big surprise.
All right with me, I used to drive a taxi.
Let's go.
The Delta closes off to us about ten miles out of Hau Fat. We'll be able to pick up some supplies  bit I think there are only two points we can draw enough water to get into the Nung River. It's all Charlie's turf from there on out.
We're gonna have some help to get in the river. You know these waters, Chief ?
'Bout six months ago I took a man up to Lo Mung Bridge. He was regular Army too. Shot himself in the head. I brought his body back down.
Shot himself. What for ?
Beats me  the sun was too much for him, or the mud. Who knows ?
Smoke !
Where ?
Yeah  fishing village  helicopters over there. Hueys, lots of 'em.
First Air Cavalry. They're the ones gonna get us into the River.
We could go in tomorrow at dawn  there's always offshore wind in the morning.
The draft of that river might be too shallow on the point.
Yeah, Chef  go ahead  take Lance with you 
I'll go with him 
Careful, Captain, they've been known to charge.
All right I got a little surprise for you 
What're you trying to say, Captain 
You'll see soon enough  get going, sailor 
No shit  hot damn 
Wow, you must a found the C.O., eh?
We found some bodies  let's get out a here.
What about ducking into one of those tributaries till this river slows down?
Who knows what's up there?
Can't be any worse than this. What do you think?
I think this river wants to take us home fast. I'm practically goin' in reverse.
Well, get in there.
This whole area is lousy with V.C.  We don't stand a chance. Lemme turn around and we'll be in Hau Fat in six minutes.
Get in there !
This is my crew and my fucking boat, and I'm the responsible party.
Get in there now or I'll bury you in this river.
What the hell is it?
In the middle of the jungle  a goddamn light.
They're not Cong.
We're Americans.
I 
I am  I'm Captain B.L. Willard. This is Chief Warrant Officer Phillips  it's his boat. We were shot up bad downriver and need repairs and food  we can pay you in gold.
Rocks, sand  those two men who deserted.
When'd you do it?
While you were sleeping.
Why  Charlie put it there to kill 
Thta's not Charlie's work 
Whoever put'em there didn't do it to kill people  They put 'em up as signs 
Signs?
Yeah  like keep out 
Listen.
What is it?
Listen.
Will they attack?
If they have boats ... or canoes... they'd get lost in the fog. We can't move either  we'll end up on the shore.
Two hours after the fog lifted, we moved slowly to a spot we thought was roughly a mile and a half below Kurtz's camp. We approached a long sandbank stretching down the middle of the river.
Which way? Right or left?
Who knows? Right.
Looks pretty shallow.
Can I go get those mangos now?
I'll go with you in a while  judt hold tight awhile 
You forgot the mangoes, didn't you?
Mangoes? There as a fucking tiger in the woods  I could've been eaten alive. I'm never going into that jungle again. I gotta remember never get out of the boat; never get outta the boat.
Elevate Lance, in the tree. No, I saw another.
Thirty meters up, Lance; I saw the fucking flash.
What'd he say?
Said I speak French like a Spanish cow.
Flood.
No  most of 'em are still standing  might've been disease.
Arch light.
I hate that  Every time I hear that noise something terrible happens.
Chef.
Yes, sir 
Why they call you that?
Call me what, sir?
Chef  is that 'cause you like mangoes an' stuff?
No, sir  I'm a real chef, sir  I'm a sauciere 
A sauciere 
That's right, sir  I come from New Orleans  I was raised to be a sauciere.. a great sauciere. We specialize in sauces; my whole family. It's what we do. I was supposed to go to Paris and study at the Escoffier School; I was saving the money. They called me for my physical so I figured the Navy had better food.
What are you doing out here?
Cook school  that did it.
How?
They lined us all up in front of a hundred yards of prime rib  magnificent meat, beautifully marbled.. Then they started throwing it in these big cauldrons, all of it  boiling. I looked in, an' it was turning gray. I couldn't stand it. I went into radio school.
I've arranged with those people we saw at Hau Fat to give us some 50 caliber in trade for a couple a drums of fuel 
No shit.
Chef  since you're such a fan of Miss December's I think you should be detailed with Lance and Clean to take the first drum up there.
I don't believe you 
What do you see?
I don't know.
I know it sounds stupid, but I feel like the goddamn jungle's watching us.
Probably is.
Whatdoya think it thinks.
That we're dumber than we look.
There's some bad holes, man, and the cracks  water's coming through the cracks. Food's shot to hell.
How much is left?
Less than half  sure is a mess down there.
And the grass?
Still got a lot of that stuff from Nha Trang. But we're running low on the other.
That's a light down there 
Yeah, it is.
Charlie?
Looks that way.
Who's he?
God knows.
Captain  they've been probed all this week  Cong and NVA regulars. There's gonna be a big offense any time.
I know.
What are we doing here?
Kurtz. I'm supposed to kill him, just like he said.
He killed that guy without feeling anything.
Not a thing.
When you kill Cong, don't you feel something.
Sure. Recoil... I feel the recoil of my rifle.
This is evil  evil, Captain. We're all gonna die here.
Yeah, I know.
I don't get it  You said your mission was to kill him. Let's do it, an' get our asses outta here. This Kurtz is ruining the war; I mean, this don't look good for America !
... he's an amazing officer.
You got to kill this sonuvabitch  Lance and me, we don''t understand none of this  Jesus, Captain  I don't wanna die here  Do it quick.
It's really too much  I mean I've collected every picture of her since she was Miss December.
Yeah  you can really get hung up on them like the cat in the Delta.
So what happened ?
He was working A.R.V.N. patrols and had one a them little cocky gook asshole Lieutenants  anyhow, the Lieutenant took his new Playboy one day, sat on the end of the dock, and wouldn't give it back.
Yeah  typical A.R.V.N.
Then went too far  he sat there and starts mutilating the centerfold. Poking pins in her an' all that. Sergeant says, don't do her like that. You leave your shitty little hands off that girl. Gook Lieutenant says Fuck you in Vietnamese  Sergeant says, don't do that again. You'll wish you hadn't. Then he stood up, flicked his iron to rock and roll and gave the little zero a long burst through the Playboy mag. Man, it blew him clean off the dock  Hell, just the magazine was floatin' there all full of holes.
Holy shit.
What did you put in all those ammo boxes?
How about a drink ?
Sure, thanks.
Winning the war by yourself.
Part.
Which part is that ?
My part. Beer, with ice and water.
That's good gin.
I'm sure it is, but I had hepatitis.
Delta ?
No.
North ?
Yeah. Way north.
What unit were you with ?
None.
Rangers, eh?
Sort of.
Were you Longe Range Recon 
No  I worked too far north for LRRP.
That's quite an array of ribbons...
Let's talk about you.
I was an FO for the 25th.
Tracks ?
Yeah.
Fat. That's real fat.
Sometimes.
At least you always have enough water. How many gallons does each one of those damn things carry ?
Thirty  sometimes fifty.
You know, I can remember once, getting back below the DMZ  and the first Americans we ran into were a track squadron. I just couldn't believe how much water they had. We'd been chewing bamboo shoots for almost a week, and before that, for two weeks, we'd been drinking anything  rain water, river shit, stuff right out of the paddies. And there were these guys standing by their trucks spilling water all over. I could've killed them. I swear to God I would have, too, if ...
I didn't know we had units up there in North Vietnam.
We do.
How long were you up there ?
A long time.
A year ? Waiter another beer.
I go up on missions. Listen Captain, buy me all the beer you want, but you better tell that asshole over there you're not going to find out anymore about me.
Headquarters 11 Corps  405th A.S.A Battalion  S2  ComSec  Intelligence  Nha Trang.
Who are you ?
We've been attacked.
I know, I know, it's all right. Come in this way. It's mined over there. This way. It's all right.
Who the hell are you?
Moonby. Got any Winstons?
Moonby what?
Moonby, 4th battalion, Royal Australian Regiment, Task Force. ExCorporal Moonby, deserted.
What is this?
You came in on that boat, didn't you?
Yeah 
Where are you headed?
What's it matter? Get to the point.
Look  you know the girls  Thta's Terri  she was playmate of 
Yeah, I caught your show at Hau Fat.
Oh  I see  Well, girls, this is Captain  eh 
Captain Willard  go ahead.
Look  we got in a little trouble  they rudely took our helicopter for MedEvac work on this  uh Operation Brute Force  They just brought it back this morning.
Yeah.
Well I mean like they also took our fuel  We've been here two days.
Dreadful.
Look  the girls could get killed  we're not supposed to be this close combat, I mean real combat.
Well 
We could use some fuel  just a half drum  just enough to get us out a here.
We need all our fuel.
Look  you know who that is, Captain  you know what she's saying  you'll never see stuff that good outside of a magazine for the rest of your life.
I'm not that fond of blondes  maybe I like brunettes 
Take your pick  they all like you  I can tell 
I like all of them 
Good  like I said, take your pick.
I said I like all of them.
Now just a second  I'm doing you a favor, buddy  what're you trying to pull?
We need all our fuel anyway.
Wait  wait  don't get up tight  what I meant was we'd need a whole drum for that 
Sit down  we'll talk about it.
What's there to talk about  this whole thing disgusts me.
My men 
What !
That's what there is to talk about  my man  I take a good care of my men 
You're out of your skull 
We have a lot of pride in our unit 
How far do you think you can push  what kind of people do you think 
Esprit de corps 
No  absolutely not 
One for all  all for one 
You can keep your fucking fuel 
You make some of your closest friends in the army  war has a way of bringing men together.
Get out 
Men of all races  nationalities 
Two whole drums 
We can use some fifty caliber and a 16 too 
I don't know what you're talking about  Get fucked 
I will  I assure you that  You got a fifty on that H34  leave the ammo in boxes  I'll get my men to bring the first drum with 'em 
Hey, Dad  why don't we put a fly in the nose cone and see if we can bring it back alive?
It's a thought.
Maybe we should send up two flies  and see if they'll propagate in orbit.
See if they'll what?
Propagate  you know, multiply  baby flies?
Oh  oh!
Did you have a nice Christmas?
Lovely. You were a big help.
Me? SHELDRAKE Thank you for giving that little pep talk to Miss Kubelik at the office party.
I'm sorry, Jeff. You know I could never hold my liquor 
But I thought you could hold your tongue.
It won't happen again.
You bet it won't. I'll arrange for you to get a month's severance pay  That's right, Miss Olsen. I'm letting you go.
You let me go four years ago, Jeff. Only you were cruel enough to make me sit out there and watch the new models pass by.
I'd appreciate it if you'd be out of here as soon as you can.
Yes, Mr. Sheldrake.
Please, Sylvia! It's a quarter to nine!
First you can't wait to get me up here, and now  rush, rush, rush! Makes a person feel cheap.
Sylvia  sweetie  it's not that  but I promised the guy I'd be out of here by eight o'clock, positively.
What guy? Whose apartment is this, anyway?
What's the difference? Some schnook that works in the office.
Some setup you got here. A real, honesttogoodness love nest.
Sssssh.
You got to watch those things. Wives are getting smarter all the time. Take Mr. Bernheim  in the Claims Department  came home one night with lipstick on his shirt  told his wife he had a shrimp cocktail for lunch  so she took it out to the lab and had it analyzed  so now she has the house in Great Neck and the children and the new Jaguar 
Don't you ever stop talking?
Where do you live?
I told you  with my mother.
Where does she live?
A hundred and seventyninth street  the Bronx.
All right  I'll take you to the subway.
Like hell you will. You'll buy me a cab.
Why do all you dames have to live in the Bronx?
You mean you bring other girls up here?
Certainly not. I'm a happily married man.
Yes? Oh, hello  sure I got home all right  you owe me fortyfive cents.
Okay, okay. Look, Sylvia  instead of Friday  could we make it Thursday night?
Thursday? That's The Untouchables  with Bob Stack.
Bob WHO?  all right, so we'll watch it at the apartment. Big deal. Baxter? It's okay for Thursday.
Stay with it, Buddyboy! Come on, Sylvia.
What gives?
A little mixup in signals. Let's go.
Go where?
What's your mother doing this afternoon?
She's home  stuffing a turkey.
Why don't we send her to a movie  like BenHur?
That's fine. But what are we going to do about grandma and Uncle Herman and Aunt Sophie and my two nieces 
Still afraid somebody may see us together?
Let me take that.
No, Jeff. I can't stay very long. Can I have a frozen daiquiri?
It's on the way. I see you went ahead and cut your hair.
That's right.
You know I liked it better long.
Yes, I know. You want a lock to carry in your wallet?
How long has it been  a month?
Six weeks. But who's counting?
I missed you, Fran.
Like old times. Same booth, same song 
It's been hell.
 same sauce  sweet and sour.
You don't know what it's like  standing next to you in that elevator, day after day  Good morning, Miss Kubelik  Good night, Mr. Sheldrake  I'm still crazy about you, Fran.
Let's not start on that again, Jeff  please. I'm just beginning to get over it.
I don't believe you.
Look, Jeff  we had two wonderful months this summer  and that was it. Happens all the time  the wife and kids go away to the country, and the boss has a fling with the secretary or the manicurist  or the elevator girl. Comes September, the picnic is over  goodbye. The kids go back to school, the boss goes back to the wife, and the girl  They don't make these shrimp like they used to.
I never said goodbye, Fran.
For a while there, you try kidding yourself that you're going with an unmarried man. Then one day he keeps looking at his watch, and asks you if there's any lipstick showing, then rushes off to catch the sevenfourteen to White Plains. So you fix yourself a cup of instant coffee  and you sit there by yourself  and you think  and it all begins to look so ugly 
How do you think I felt  riding home on that sevenfourteen train?
Why do you keep calling me, Jeff? What do you want from me?
I want you back, Fran.
Sorry, Mr. Sheldrake  I'm full up. You'll have to take the next elevator.
You're not giving me a chance, Fran. I asked you to meet me because  I have something to tell you. FRAN Go ahead  tell me.
Not here, Fran. Can't we go some place else?
No. I have a date at eightthirty.
Important?
Not very  but I'm going to be there anyway.
Fran  remember that last weekend we had?
Do I. That leaky little boat you rented  and me in a black negligee and a life preserver 
Remember what we talked about?
We talked about a lot of things.
I mean  about my getting a divorce.
We didn't talk about it  you did.
You didn't really believe me, did you?
They got it an a long playing record now  Music to String Her Along By. My wife doesn't understand me  We haven't gotten along for years  You're the best thing that ever happened to me 
That's enough, Fran.
Just trust me, baby  we'll work it out somehow 
You're not being funny.
I wasn't trying.
If you'll just listen to me for a minute 
Okay. I'm sorry.
I saw my lawyer this morning  I wanted his advice  about the best way to handle it 
Handle what?
What do you think?
Let's get something straight, Jeff  I never asked you to leave your wife.
Of course not. You had nothing to do with it.
Are you sure that's what you want?
I'm sure. If you'll just tell me that you still love me 
You know I do.
Fran 
I have that date  remember?
I love you  remember?
Where are we going, Jeff? Not back to that leaky boat 
I promise.
Come on, Fran  don't be like that. You just going to sit there and keep bawling? You won't talk to me, you won't tell me what's wrong  Look, I know you think I'm stalling you. But when you've been married to a woman for twelve years, you don't just sit down at the breakfast table and say "Pass the sugar  and I want a divorce." It's not that easy. Anyway, this is the wrong time. The kids are home from school  my in laws are visiting for the holidays  I can't bring it up now. This isn't like you, Fran  you were always such a good sport  such fun to be with 
Yeah  that's me. The Happy Idiot  a million laughs.
Well, that's more like it. At least you're speaking to me.
Funny thing happened to me at the office party today  I ran into your secretary  Miss Olsen. You know  ringadingding? I laughed so much I like to died.
Is that what's been bothering you  Miss Olsen? That's ancient history.
I was never very good at history. Let me see  there was Miss Olsen, and then there was Miss Rossi  no, she came before  it was Miss Koch who came after Miss Olsen 
Now, Fran 
And just think  right now there's some lucky girl in the building who's going to come after me 
Okay, okay, Fran. I deserve that. But just ask yourself  why does a man run around with a lot of girls? Because he's unhappy at home  because he's lonely, that's why  all that was before you, Fran  I've stopped running.
How could I be so stupid? You'd think I would have learned by now  when you're in love with a married man, you shouldn't wear mascara.
It's Christmas Eve, Fran  let's not fight.
Merry Christmas.
Oh. Our friend from the Chinese restaurant. Thanks, Fran. We better keep it here.
Yeah, we better.
I have a present for you. I didn't quite know what to get you  anyway it's a little awkward for me, shopping   so here's a hundred dollars  go out and buy yourself something.
Okay. I just thought as long as it was paid for 
Don't ever talk like that, Fran! Don't make yourself out to be cheap.
A hundred dollars? I wouldn't call that cheap. And you must be paying somebody something for the use of the apartment 
Stop that, Fran.
You'll miss your train, Jeff.
Coming?
You run along  I want to fix my face.
Don't forget to kill the lights. See you Monday.
Sure. Monday and Thursday  and Monday again  and Thursday again 
It won't always be like this. I love you, Fran.
Hello, Jeff. Yes, I'm all right.
Fran, why did you do it? It's so childish  and it never solves anything  I ought to be very angry with you, scaring me like that  but let's forget the whole thing  pretend it never happened  what do you say, Fran? Fran 
Are you there, Fran?
Of course I'm not here  because the whole thing never happened  I never took those pills  I never loved you  we never even met  isn't that the way you want it?
There you go again  you know I didn't mean it that way, Fran. Just get well  do what the nurse tells you  I mean Baxter  and I'll see you as soon as I can. Bye, Fran.
Sorry it took me so long on the phone. But we're all set.
All set for what?
I rented a car  it's going to be here at one o'clock  we're driving to Atlantic City.
Atlantic City?
I know it's a drag  but you can't find a hotel room in town  not on New Year's Eve.
Ring out the old year, ring in the new. Ringadingding.
I didn't plan it this way, Fran  actually, it's all Baxter's fault.
Baxter?
He wouldn't give me the key to the apartment.
He wouldn't.
Just walked out on me  quit  threw that big fat job right in my face.
The nerve.
That little punk  after all I did for him! He said I couldn't bring anybody to his apartment  especially not Miss Kubelik. What's he got against you, anyway?
I don't know. I guess that's the way it crumbles  cookiewise.
What are you talking about?
I'd spell it out for you  only I can't spell.
Hi. How's the branch manager from Kansas City?
I beg your pardon? MISS OLSEN I'm Miss Olsen  Mr. Sheldrake's secretary.
Yes, I know.
So you don't have to play innocent with me. He used to tell his wife that I was the branch manager from Seattle  four years ago when we were having a little ringading ding.
I don't know what you're talking about.
And before me there was Miss Rossi in Auditing  and after me there was Miss Koch in Disability  and just before you there was Miss What'sHerName, on the twenty fifth floor 
Will you excuse me?
What for? You haven't done anything  it's him  what a salesman  always the last booth in the Chinese restaurant  and the same pitch about divorcing his wife  and in the end you wind up with egg foo yong on your face.
Well  thank you.
Always happy to do something for our girls in uniform.
What's with you, Fran  did you forget where you live?
This is my brotherinlaw, Karl Matuschka.
What for?
Because I took some sleeping pills. But I'm all right now  so let's go.
Why did you take sleeping pills?
You fool  you damn fool.
Come on, Fran.
Goodbye, Mr. Baxter.
Sleeping pills.
That's right, Fran. And I'm a doctor.
Doctor.
Dr. Dreyfuss.
Dreyfuss.
Get more coffee.
Tell me again  what's my name?
Dr. Dreyfuss.
And what happened to you?
I took sleeping pills.
Do you know where you are, Fran?
No.
Yes, you do. Now concentrate.
I don't know.
Do you know who this is? Look at him.
Mr. Baxter  nineteenth floor.
Please  just let me sleep.
You can't sleep. Come on, Fran  open your eyes. Let's get her walking. We've got to keep her awake for the next couple of hours.
 so yesterday afternoon I take Sylvia up to the apartment, and guess who he's got stashed away in the bedroom?
Who?
Kubelik.
No kidding. Buddyboy and Kubelik having themselves a little toot!
Toot? It's more like a lost weekend. Neither of them showed up for work today.
A.W.O.L.?
What gripes me is the two of them were guzzling my champagne while Sylvia and I wound up at the Guggenheim Museum.
I see. What do you think, Al? Can we help the man?
Why not? We don't owe Buddyboy anything.
Yeah. What's Buddyboy done for us lately?
Hi, Buddyboy. What happened to you?
Hit by a swinging door? Or maybe a Yellow Cab?
That guy really must've belted him.
Yeah, he's punchy. Talking to himself.
You like Castro? I mean  how do you feel about Castro? BUD What is Castro?
You know, that bigshot down in Cuba with the crazy beard.
What about him?
Because as far as I'm concerned, he's a no good fink. Two weeks ago I wrote him a letter  never even answered me.
That so.
All I wanted him to do was let Mickey out for Christmas.
Who is Mickey?
My husband. He's in Havana  in jail.
Oh. Mixed up in that revolution?
Mickey? He wouldn't do nothing like that. He's a jockey. They caught him doping a horse.
Well, you can't win 'em all.
'Twas the night before Christmas And all through the house Not a creature was stirring  Nothing  No action  Dullsville! You married?
No.
Family?
No.
A night like this, it sort of spooks you to walk into an empty apartment.
I said I had no family  I didn't say I had an empty apartment.
Where do we go  my place or yours?
Might as well go to mine  everybody else does.
Poor Mickey  when I think of him all by himself in that jail in Havana   want to see his picture?
Not particularly.
Can I ask you a personal question?
No.
You got a girlfriend?
She may be a girl  but she's no friend of mine.
Still stuck on her, huh.
Stuck on her! Obviously, you don't know me very well.
I don't know you at all. BUD Permit me  C.C. Baxter  junior executive, Arthur Murray graduate, lover.
Say, this is Snugsville.
Mrs. MacDougall, I think it is only fair to warn you that you are now alone with a notorious sexpot.
No kidding.
Ask anybody around here. As a matter of fact, when it's time for me to go  and I may go just like that   I have promised my body to the Columbia Medical Center.
Gee. Sort of gives you goosebumps just to think about it.
Well, they haven't got me yet, baby. Dig up some ice from the kitchen and let's not waste any time  preliminarywise.
I'm with you, lover.
Not so rough, honey.
Good night.
Good night?
The party's over.
What's the matter? Did I do something wrong?
It's an emergency  see you some other time.
Say, what's going on here, anyway?
Nothing. Just clear out, will you?
My shoes.
Here  find yourself a phone booth and call your husband in Havana.
You bet I will. And when I tell him how you treated me, he'll push your face in. You fink!
Good evening, Baxter.
Hi, Doc. Had a late call?
Yeah. Some clown at Schrafft's 57th Street ate a club sandwich, and forgot to take out the toothpick.
Oh. 'Bye, Doc.
Say, Baxter  the way you're belting that stuff, you must have a pair of castiron kidneys.
Oh, that's not me. It's just that once in a while, I have some people in for a drink.
As a matter of fact, you must be an iron man all around. From what I hear through the walls, you got something going for you every night.
I'm sorry if it gets noisy 
Sometimes, there's a twinight doubleheader. A nebbish like you!
Yeah. Well  see you, Doc.
You know, Baxter  I'm doing some research at the Columbia Medical Center  and I wonder if you could do us a favor?
Me?
When you make out your will  and the way you're going, you should  would you mind leaving your body to the University?
My body? I'm afraid you guys would be disappointed. Good night, Doc.
Slow down, kid.
There's a girl in my place  she took some sleeping pills  you better come quick  I can't wake her up.
Let me get my bag.
She going to be all right, Doc?
How many pills were in that bottle?
It was halffull  about a dozen or so. You going to have to take her to the hospital?
What are you going to do, Doc?
Get that stuff out of her stomach  if it isn't too late. You better put some coffee on  and pray.
Want to tell me what happened?
I don't know  I mean  I wasn't here  you see  we had some words earlier  nothing serious, really  what you might call a lovers' quarrel 
So you went right out and picked yourself up another dame.
Something like that.
You know, Baxter, you're a real cutiepie  yes, you are.
What's her name?
Miss Kubelik  Fran.
Fran, I'm a doctor. I'm here because you took too many sleeping pills. Do you understand what I'm saying? Fran, I'm Dr. Dreyfuss  I'm here to help you. You took all those sleeping pills  remember?
Hello, Miss Kubelik.
Mister  Miss  such politeness!
Well  we work in the same building  and we try to keep it quiet 
She'll sleep on and off for the next twentyfour hours. Of course, she'll have a dandy hangover when she wakes up 
Just as long as she's okay.
These cases are harder on the doctor than on the patient. I ought to charge you by the mile.
Any of that coffee left?
Sure.
How do you spell her last name?
Kubelik  with two k's.
What's her address? Where does she live?
Why do you want to know, Doc? You don't have to report this, do you?
It's regulations.
She didn't mean it, Doc  it was an accident  she had a little too much to drink and  she didn't know what she was doing  there was no suicide note or anything  believe me, Doc, I'm not thinking about myself 
Aren't you?
It's just that she's got a family  and there's the people in the office  look, Doc, can't you forget you're a doctor  let's just say you're here as a neighbor 
Well, as a doctor, I guess I can't prove it wasn't an accident. But as your neighbor, I'd like to kick your keester clear around the block. Mind if I cool this off?
Help yourself.
I don't know what you did to that girl in there  and don't tell me  but it was bound to happen, the way you carry on. Live now, pay later. Diner's Club! Why don't you grow up, Baxter? Be a mensch! You know what that means?
I'm not sure.
A mansch  a human being! So you got off easy this time  so you were lucky 
Yeah, wasn't I?
But you're not out of the woods yet, Baxter  because most of them try it again! You know where I am if you need me.
How's the patient?
Oh, I'm fine, Doc.
Not you  Miss Kubelik.
Say, Baxter  we're having a little party and we ran out of ice  so I was wondering 
Sure, Doc.
How come you're alone on New Year's Eve?
Well, I have things to do 
What's this  you packing?
Yeah  I'm giving up the apartment.
Where are you moving to?
I don't know. All I know is I got to get out of this place.
Sorry to lose you, Baxter.
Me? Oh, you mean my body. Don't worry, Doc  it'll go to the University  I'll put it in writing 
Can you use a bottle of champagne?
Booze we don't need. Why don't you join us, Baxter? We got two brain surgeons, an ear, nose and throat specialist, a proctologist, and three nurses from Bellevue.
No, thanks  I don't feel like it. Look, Doc  in case I don't see you again  how much do I owe you for taking care of that girl?
Forget it  I didn't do it as a doctor  I did it as a neighbor. By the way, whatever happened to her?
You know me with girls. Easy come, easy go. Goodbye, Doc.
Happy New Year.
Dear Mr. MacIntosh  Vanderhof, Public Relations. Oh, yes, Baxter. Just a minute. All right, Miss Finch  type up what we got so far. Now what is it, Baxter?
Look, Mr. Vanderhof  I've got you down here for tonight  but I'm going to be using the place myself  so I'll have to cancel.
Cancel? But it's her birthday  I already ordered the cake 
I hate to disappoint you  I mean, many happy returns  but not tonight 
That's not like you, Baxter. Just the other day, at the staff meeting, I was telling Mr. Sheldrake what a reliable man you were.
Thank you, Mr. Vanderhof. But I'm sick  I have this terrible cold  and a fever  and I got to go to bed right after work.
Buddyboy, that's the worst thing you can do. If you got a cold, you should go to a Turkish bath  spend the night there  sweat it out 
Oh, no. I'd get pneumonia  and if I got pneumonia, I'd be in bed for a month  and if I were in bed for a month 
Okay, you made your point. We'll just have to do it next Wednesday  that's the only night of the week I can get away.
Wednesday  Wednesday  I got somebody penciled in  let me see what I can do  I'll get back to you.
Quite an office  name on the door  rug on the floor  the whole schmear.
Yeah.
Hiya, Buddyboy. I'm in this bar on Sixtyfirst Street  and I got to thinking about you  and I figured I'd give you a little buzz.
Well, that's very nice of you  but who is this?
Dobisch  Joe Dobisch, in Administration.
Oh, yes, Mr. Dobisch. I didn't recognize your voice 
That's okay, Buddyboy. Now like I was saying, I'm in this joint on Sixtyfirst  and I think I got lucky   she's a skater with the Ice Show   and I thought maybe I could bring her up for a quiet drink.
I'm sorry, Mr. Dobisch. You know I like to help you guys out  but it's sort of late  so why don't we make it some other time?
Buddyboy  she won't keep that long  not even on ice. Listen, kid, I can't pass this up  she looks like Marilyn Monroe.
I don't care if it is Marilyn Monroe  I'm already in bed  and I've taken a sleeping pill  so I'm afraid the answer is no.
Look, Baxter  we're making out the monthly efficiency rating  and I'm putting you in the top ten. Now you don't want to louse yourself up, do you?
Of course not. But  how can I be efficient in the office if I don't get enough sleep at night?
It's only eleven  and I just want the place for fortyfive minutes.
Make it thirty minutes. What do you say, Bud?
I'm all out of liquor  and there's no clean glasses  no cheese crackers  no nothing.
Let me worry about that. Just leave the key under the mat and clear out.
Yes, Mr. Dobisch.
Oh, Buddyboy. I was just about to call you. I'm sorry about that mess on the living room wall. You see, my little friend, she kept insisting Picasso was a bum  so she started to do that mural  but I'm sure it will wash off  just eyebrow pencil.
It's not Picasso I'm calling about. It's the key  to my apartment  you were supposed to leave it under the mat.
I did, didn't I? I distinctly remember bending over and putting it there 
Oh, I found a key there, all right  only it's the wrong key.
It is? Well, how about that? No wonder I couldn't get into the executive washroom this morning.
And I couldn't get into my apartment  so at four a. m. I had to wake up the landlady and give her a whole song and dance about going out to mail a letter and the door slamming shut.
That's a shame. I'll send the key right down. And about your promotion   I'm sending that efficiency report right up to Mr. Sheldrake, in Personnel. I wouldn't be surprised if you heard from him before the day is over.
Thank you, Mr. Dobisch.
Teamwork  that's what counts in an organization like this. All for one and one for all  know what I mean?
I have a vague idea.
We went to bat for you  and now you won't play ball with us.
Well, after all, it's my apartment  it's private property  it's not a public playground.
I sympathize with your problem  and believe me, I'm very sorry 
You'll be a lot sorrier before we're through with you.
You threatening me?
Listen, Baxter, we made you and we can break you.
Mr. Kirkeby, I don't like to complain  but you were supposed to be out of here by eight.
I know, Buddyboy, I know. But those things don't always run on schedule  like a Greyhound bus.
I don't mind in the summer  but on a rainy night  and I haven't had any dinner yet 
Sure, sure. Look, kid  I put in a good word for you with Sheldrake, in Personnel.
Mr. Sheldrake?
That's right. We were discussing our department  manpowerwise  and promotionwise   and I told him what a bright boy you were. They're always on the lookout for young executives. BUD Thank you, Mr. Kirkeby.
You're on your way up, Buddyboy. And you're practically out of liquor.
I know. Mr. Eichelberger  in the Mortgage Loan Department  last night he had a little Halloween party here 
Well, lay in some vodka and some vermouth  and put my name on it.
Yes, Mr. Kirkeby. You still owe me for the last two bottles 
I'll pay you on Friday. And whatever happened to those little cheese crackers you used to have around?
Good morning, Mr. Kirkeby.
Oh, how are you, Baxter. They keeping you busy these days?
Yes, sir. They are indeed.
That Kubelik  boy! Would I like to get her on a slow elevator to China.
Oh, yes. She's the best operator in the building.
I'm a pretty good operator myself  but she just won't give me a tumble  datewise.
Maybe you're using the wrong approach.
A lot of guys around here have tried it  all kinds of approaches  no dice. What is she trying to prove?
Could be she's just a nice, respectable girl  there are millions of them.
Listen to him. Little Lord Fauntleroy!
Hello? Yeah, Baxter. What's up?
Instead of Friday  could you possibly switch to Thursday? You'd be doing me a great favor 
Well  it's all right with me, Bud. Let me check. I'll get back to you.
Baxter, we're a little disappointed in you  gratitudewise.
Oh, I'm very grateful.
So long, Baxter. We know you won't let us down.
So long, fellas. Drop in any time. The door is always open  to my office.
Hi, Baxter.
What do you want?
What do I  ? Just a minute.
You can't come in.
What's the matter with you, Buddy boy? I made a reservation for four o'clock, remember?
Look, you can't stay here. Just take your champagne and go.
Baxter, I don't want to pull rank on you  but I told the lady it was all set  you want to make a liar out of me?
Are you going to leave, Mr. Kirkeby, or do I have to throw you out?
Buddyboy, why didn't you say so? You got yourself a little playmate, huh?
Now will you get out?
Say, why don't we have ourselves a party  the four of us?
No!
Baxter?
Yes?
How do you do, Mr. Matuschka?
Okay, get your clothes on. I got the cab downstairs.
Now, wait a minute. I know what you're thinking  but it's not as bad as it looks  MATUSCHKA It's none of my business what you do, Fran  you're over twenty one  but your sister happens to think you're a lady.
All we were going to do is eat and wash the dishes 
Look, Buddyboy  if there wasn't a lady present, I'd clobber you.
What's the matter with Miss Kubelik?
Oh, this is Mr. Matuschka  he's Miss Kubelik's  he's got a cab downstairs 
Fran been sick or something?
No, no  just had a little accident.
What does he mean, accident?
On account of me.
You?
Who else?
Baxter?
Yes, sir.
I was sort of wondering what you looked like. Sit down.
Yes, Mr. Sheldrake.
Been hearing some very nice things about you  here's a report from Mr. Dobisch  loyal, cooperative, resourceful 
Mr. Dobisch said that?
And Mr. Kirkeby tells me that several nights a week you work late at the office  without overtime.
Well, you know how it is  things pile up.
Mr. Vanderhof, in Public Relations, and Mr. Eichelberger, in Mortgage and Loan  they'd both like to have you transferred to their departments.
That's very flattering.
Tell me, Baxter  just what is it that makes you so popular?
I don't know.
Think.
Would you mind repeating the question?
Look, Baxter, I'm not stupid. I know everything that goes on in this building  in every department  on every floor  every day of the year.
You do?
In 1957, we had an employee here, name of Fowler. He was very popular, too. Turned out he was running a bookie joint right in the Actuarial Department tying up the switchboard, figuring the odds on our I.B.M. machines  so the day before the Kentucky Derby, I called in the Vice Squad and we raided the thirteenth floor.
The Vice Squad?
That's right, Baxter.
What  what's that got to do with me? I'm not running any bookie joint.
What kind of joint are you running?
Sir?
There's a certain key floating around the office  from Kirkeby to Vanderhof to Eichelberger to Dobisch  it's the key to a certain apartment  and you know who that apartment belongs to?
Who?
Loyal, cooperative, resourceful C. C. Baxter.
Oh.
Are you going to deny it?
No, sir. I'm not going to deny it. But if you'd just let me explain 
You better.
Well, about six months ago  I was going to night school, taking this course in Advanced Accounting  and one of the guys in our department  he lives in Jersey  he was going to a banquet at the Biltmore  his wife was meeting him in town, and he needed someplace to change into a tuxedo  so I gave him the key and word must have gotten around  because the next thing I knew, all sorts of guys were suddenly going to banquets  and when you give the key to one guy, you can't say no to another and the whole thing got out of hand  pardon me.
Baxter, an insurance company is founded on public trust. Any employee who conducts himself in a manner unbecoming  How many charter members are there in this little club of yours?
Just those four  out of a total of 31,259  so actually, we can be very proud of our personnel  percentagewise.
That's not the point. Four rotten apples in a barrel  no matter how large the barrel  you realize that if this ever leaked out 
Oh, it won't. Believe me. And it's not going to happen again. From now on, nobody is going to use my apartment 
Where is your apartment?
West 67th Street. You have no idea what I've been going through  with the neighbors and the landlady and the liquor and the key 
How do you work it with the key?
Well, usually I slip it to them in the office and they leave it under the mat  but never again  I can promise you that 
Where are you going, Baxter?
Well, I don't want to intrude  and I thought  since it's all straightened out anyway 
I'm not through with you yet.
Yes, sir.
The reason I called is  I won't be home for dinner tonight. The branch manager from Kansas City is in town  I'm taking him to the theatre Music Man, what else? No, don't wait up for me  'bye, darling. Tell me something, Baxter  have you seen Music Man?
Not yet. But I hear it's one swell show.
How would you like to go tonight?
You mean  you and me? I thought you were taking the branch manager from Kansas City 
I made other plans. You can have both tickets.
Well, that's very kind of you  only I'm not feeling well  you see, I have this cold  and I thought I'd go straight home.
Baxter, you're not reading me. I told you I have plans.
So do I  I'm going to take four aspirins and get into bed  so you better give the tickets to somebody else 
I'm not just giving those tickets, Baxter  I want to swap them.
Swap them? For what?
It also says here  that you are alert, astute, and quite imaginative 
Oh? Oh!
This?
That's good thinking, Baxter. Next month there's going to be a shift in personnel around here  and as far as I'm concerned, you're executive material.
I am?
Now put down the key   and put down the address.
Oh  terribly sorry. It's that cold 
Relax, Baxter.
Thank you, sir.
Now remember, Baxter  this is going to be our little secret.
Yes, of course.
You know how people talk.
Oh, you don't have to worry 
Not that I have anything to hide.
Oh, no sir. Certainly not. Anyway, it's none of my business  four apples, five apples  what's the difference  percentagewise?
Here you are, Baxter. Have a nice time.
You too, sir.
Morning, gentlemen. Everything satisfactory? You like your office?
Oh, yes, sir. Very much. And I want to thank you 
Don't thank me  thank your friends here  they're the ones who recommended you.
I like the way you handled that. Well, how does it feel to be an executive?
Fine. And I want you to know I'll work very hard to justify your confidence in me  SHELDRAKE Sure you will. Say, Baxter, about the apartment  now that you got a raise, don't you think we can afford a second key?
Well  I guess so.
You know my secretary  Miss Olsen 
Oh, yes. Very attractive. Is she  the lucky one?
No, you don't understand. She's a busybody  always poking her nose into things  and with that key passing back and forth  why take chances?
Yes, sir. You can't be too careful.
To me?
I mean  the young lady  whoever she may be  it was on the couch when I got home last night.
Oh, yes. Thanks.
The mirror is broken. It was broken when I found it.
So it was. She threw it at me.
Sir?
You know how it is  sooner or later they all give you a bad time.
I know how it is.
You see a girl a couple of times a week  just for laughs  and right away she thinks you're going to divorce your wife. I ask you  is that fair?
No, sir. That's very unfair  especially to your wife.
Yeah. You know, Baxter, I envy you. Bachelor  all the dames you want  no headaches, no complications 
Yes, sir. That's the life, all right.
Put me down for Thursday again.
Roger. And I'll get that other key.
Hello?  yes  what's on your mind, Baxter?
I hate to disturb you, but something came up  it's rather important  and I think it would be a good idea if you could see me  at the apartment  as soon as possible.
You're not making sense, Baxter. What's this all about?
I didn't want to tell you over the phone but that certain party  you know who I mean  I found her here last night  she had taken an overdose of sleeping pills.
What?
I thought maybe you'd like to be here when she wakes up.
That's impossible. You'll have to handle this situation yourself  as a matter of fact, I'm counting on you 
Yes, sir  I understand. She left a note  you want me to open it and read it to you? Well, it was just a suggestion  no, you don't have to worry about that, Mr. Sheldrake  I kept your name out of it so there'll be no trouble, policewise or newspaper wise 
Yes, she's in the shower  she's coming along fine, considering.
Good. Is there anything you need  money  ?
No, thank you, Mr. Sheldrake. As a matter of fact, I've got some money for you  a hundred dollars 
Oh. Well, if there's anything I can do for you 
For me? I don't think so. But I was hoping maybe you could do something for her 
Like what? Put yourself in my place, Baxter  how can I help her  my hands are tied 
Mr. Sheldrake, I've got good news for you 
And I've got good news for you, Baxter. All your troubles are over.
Sir?
I know how worried you were about Miss Kubelik  well, stop worrying  I'm going to take her off your hands.
You're going to take her off my hands?
That's right. I've moved out of my house  I'm going to be staying in town, at the Athletic Club.
You left your wife?
Well, if you must know  I fired my secretary, my secretary got to my wife, and my wife fired me. Ain't that a kick in the head?
Yeah 
Now what was your news, Baxter?
It's about Miss Kubelik  she's all right again  so she went back home.
Swell. And don't think I've forgotten what you did for me. This way, Baxter.
You like? It's all yours.
Mine?
My assistant, Roy Thompson, has been shifted to the Denver office, and you're taking his place. What's the matter, Baxter? You don't seem very excited.
Well, it's just that so many things have been happening so fast  I'm very pleased  especially for Miss Kubelik. Now that I've gotten to know her better, I think she's the kind of girl that definitely ought to be married to somebody 
Oh, sure, sure. But first the property settlement has to be worked out  then it takes six weeks in Reno  meanwhile, I'm going to enjoy being a bachelor for a while. Oh, by the way, you can now have lunch in the executive dining room 
Yes, sir.
That's just one of the privileges that goes with this job. You also get a nice little expense account, the use of the executive washroom  Say, what happened to you, Baxter?
I got kicked in the head, too.
Oh?
Here's the breakdown of figures on personnel turnover. Thirtyseven percent of our female employees leave to get married, twentytwo percent quit because 
You're working too hard, Baxter. It's New Year's Eve  relax.
Yes, sir.
I suppose you'll be on the town tonight  celebrating?
Naturally.
Me, too. I'm taking Miss Kubelik out  I finally talked her into it 
I see.
The only thing is I'm staying at the Athletic Club  and it's strictly stag so if you don't mind 
Don't mind what?
You know that other key to your apartment  well, when we had that little scare about Miss Kubelik, I thought I'd better get rid of it quick  so I threw it out the window of the commuter train.
Very clever.
Now I'll have to borrow your key.
Sorry, Mr. Sheldrake.
What do you mean, sorry?
You're not going to bring anybody up to my apartment.
I'm not just bringing anybody  I'm bringing Miss Kubelik.
Especially not Miss Kubelik.
How's that again?
No key!
Baxter, I picked you for my team because I thought you were a bright young man. You realize what you're doing? Not to me  but to yourself. Normally it takes years to work your way up to the twentyseventh floor  but it takes only thirty seconds to be out on the street again. You dig?
I dig.
So what's it going to be?
Now you're being bright?
Thank you, sir.
Say, Baxter  you gave me the wrong key.
No I didn't.
But this is the key to the executive washroom.
That's right, Mr. Sheldrake. I won't be needing it  because I'm all washed up around here.
What's gotten into you, Baxter?
Just following doctor's orders. I've decided to become a mensch. You know what that means? A human being.
Now hold on, Baxter 
Save it. The old payola won't work any more. Goodbye, Mr. Sheldrake.
Good evening, Mr. Baxter.
Good evening, Mrs. Lieberman.
Some weather we're having. Must be from all the meshugass at Cape Canaveral. You locked out of your apartment?
No, no. Just waiting for a friend. Good night, Mrs. Lieberman.
Good night, Mr. Baxter.
Oh  Mrs. Lieberman.
So who did you think it was  Kris Kringle? What was going on here last night?
Last night?
All that marching  tramp, tramp, tramp  you were having army maneuvers maybe?
I'm sorry, Mrs. Lieberman  and I'll never invite those people again.
What you get from renting to bachelors. All night I didn't sleep ten minutes  and I'm sure you woke up Dr. Dreyfuss.
Don't worry about Dr. Dreyfuss  I happen to know he was out on a case.
I'm warning you, Mr. Baxter  this is a respectable house, not a honkytonky. Come on, Oscar.
Oh, Mr. Baxter  I'm glad you're here  I was just going to get the passkey.
What for?
I thought I smelled gas coming from your apartment.
Gas?
Morning, Mr. Baxter.
Morning, Miss Kubelik.
What did you do to your hair?
It was making me nervous, so I chopped it off. Big mistake, huh?
I sort of like it.
Say, you got a lulu.
Yeah. I better not get too close.
Oh, I never catch colds.
Really? I was looking at some figures from the Sickness and Accident Claims Division  do you know that the average New Yorker between the ages of twenty and fifty has two and a half colds a year?
That makes me feel just terrible.
Why?
Well, to make the figures come out even  since I have no colds a year  some poor slob must have five colds a year.
That's me.
You should have stayed in bed this morning.
I should have stayed in bed last night.
Twentyseven.
You may not realize it, Miss Kubelik, but I'm in the top ten  efficiencywise and this may be the day  promotionwise.
You're beginning to sound like Mr. Kirkeby already.
Why not? Now that they're kicking me upstairs 
Couldn't happen to a nicer guy. You know, you're the only one around here who ever takes his hat off in the elevator.
Really?
The characters you meet. Something happens to men in elevators. Must be the change of altitude  the blood rushes to their head, or something  boy, I could tell you stories 
I'd love to hear them. Maybe we could have lunch in the cafeteria sometime  or some evening, after work 
I hope everything goes all right.
I hope so. Wouldn't you know they'd call me on a day like this  with my cold and everything  How do I look?
Fine. Wait.
Good night.
Good night.
Oh  Miss Kubelik. I've been waiting for you. FRAN You have?
I almost didn't recognize you  this is the first time I've ever seen you in civilian clothes.
How'd you make out on the twenty seventh floor?
Great. Look  have you seen The Music Man?
No.
Would you like to?
Sure.
I thought maybe we could have a bite to eat first  and then 
You mean tonight?
Yeah.
I'm sorry, but I can't tonight. I'm meeting somebody.
Oh. You mean  like a girlfriend?
No. Like a man.
I wasn't trying to be personal  it's just that the fellows in the office were  whether you wondering about you ever 
Just tell 'em  now and then.
This date  is it just a date  or is it something serious?
It used to be serious  at least I was  but he wasn't  so the whole thing is more or less kaputt.
Well, in that case, couldn't you  ?
I'm afraid not. I promised to have a drink with him  he's been calling me all week 
Oh, I understand.
Well, it was just an idea  I hate to see a ticket go to waste 
What time does the show go on?
Eightthirty.
Well  I could meet you at the theatre  if that's all right.
All right? That's wonderful! It's the Majestic  44th Street.
Meet you in the lobby. Okay?
You know, I felt so lousy this morning  a hundred and one fever  then my promotion came up  now you and I  eleventh row center  and you said I should have stayed in bed.
How is your cold?
What cold? And after the show, we could go out on the town  I've been taking from Arthur Murray.
So I see.
They got a great little band at El Chico, in the Village  it's practically around the corner from where you live.
Sounds good. How do you know where I live?
Oh, I even know who you live with  your sister and brotherin law  I know when you were born  and where  I know all sorts of things about you.
How come?
A couple of months ago I looked up your card in the group insurance file.
Oh.
I know your height, your weight and your Social Security number  you had mumps, you had measles, and you had your appendix out.
Well, don't tell the fellows in the office about the appendix. They may get the wrong idea how you found out. 'Bye.
Eightthirty!
Marry Christmas.
Thank you. I thought you were avoiding me.
What gave you that idea?
In the last six weeks you've only been in my elevator once  and then you didn't take your hat off.
Well, as a matter of fact, I was rather hurt when you stood me up that night 
I don't blame you. It was unforgivable.
I forgive you.
You shouldn't.
You couldn't help yourself. I mean, when you're having a drink with one man, you can't just suddenly walk out on him because you have another date with another man. You did the only decent thing.
Don't be too sure. Just because I wear a uniform  that doesn't make me a Girl Scout.
Miss Kubelik, one doesn't get to be a second administrative assistant around here unless he's a pretty good judge of character  and as far as I'm concerned, you're tops. I mean, decencywise  and otherwisewise. Cheers.
Cheers.
One more?
I shouldn't drink when I'm driving.
You're so right.
By the power vested in me, I herewith declare this elevator out of order. Shall we join the natives?
Why not? They seem friendly enough.
Don't you believe it. Later on there will be human sacrifices  white collar workers tossed into the computing machines, and punched full of those little square holes.
How many of those drinks did you have?
Three.
I thought so.
You all right? What's the matter?
Nothing. There are just too many people here.
Why don't we step into any office? There's something I want your advice about, anyway. I have my own office now, naturally. And you may be interested to know I'm the second youngest executive in the company  the only one younger is a grandson of the chairman of the board.
Guess I made a booboo, huh?
No  I like it.
Really? You mean you wouldn't be ashamed to be seen with somebody in a hat like this?
Of course not.
Maybe if I wore it a little more to the side  is that better?
Much better.
Well, as long as you wouldn't be ashamed to be seen with me  how about the three of us going out this evening  you and me and the bowler  stroll down Fifth Avenue  sort of break it in 
This is a bad day for me.
I understand. Christmas  family and all that 
I'd better get back to my elevator. I don't want to be fired.
Oh, you don't have to worry about that. I have quite a bit of influence in Personnel. You know Mr. Sheldrake?
Why?
He and I are like this. Sent me a Christmas card. See?
I thought maybe I could put in a word for you with Mr. Sheldrake  get you a little promotion  how would you like to be an elevator starter?
I'm afraid there are too many other girls around here with seniority over me.
No problem. Why don't we discuss it sometime over the holidays  I could call you and pick you up and we'll have the big unveiling   you sure this is the right way to wear it?
I think so.
You don't think it's tilted a little too much 
Here.
After all, this is a conservative firm  I don't want people to think I'm an entertainer 
What is it?
The mirror  it's broken.
I know. I like it this way  makes me look the way I feel.
Your phone.
Oh. Yes? Just a minute. If you don't mind  this is sort of personal
All right. Have a nice Christmas.
Don't you remember? We were at the office party together 
Oh, yes  office party  Miss Olsen 
That's right. I told you we had a fight  that's what it was about  Miss Olsen  you know that other girl you saw 
I don't understand 
It's not important, Fran  the main thing is that I got here in time  and you're going to be all right   isn't she, Doc?
I'm so tired  DR. DREYFUSS Here  drink this.
I'm sorry, Mr. Baxter.
Miss Kubelik   you shouldn't be out of bed.
I didn't know  I had no idea this was your apartment 
Let me help you.
I'm so ashamed. Why didn't you just let me die?
What kind of talk is that? So you got a little over emotional  but you're fine now.
My head  it feels like a big wad of chewing gum. What time is it?
Two o'clock.
Where's my dress? I have to go home.
You're in no condition to go anywhere  except back to bed.
You don't want me here 
Sure I do. It's always nice to have company for Christmas.
Miss Kubelik, I'm stronger than you are 
I just want to go brush my teeth 
Oh  of course. I think there's a new toothbrush somewhere.
Here. How about some breakfast?
No  I don't want anything.
I'll fix you some coffee.
Who are you calling, Miss Kubelik?
My sister  she'll want to know what happened to me.
Wait a minute  let's talk this over first. Just what are you going to tell her?
Well, I haven't figured it out, exactly.
You better figure it out  exactly. Suppose she asks you why you didn't come home last night?
I'll tell her I spent the night with a friend.
Who?
Someone from the office.
And where are you now?
In his apartment.
His apartment?
I mean  her apartment.
What's your friend's name?
Baxter.
What's her first name?
Miss.
When are you coming home?
As soon as I can walk.
Something wrong with your legs?
No  it's my stomach.
Your stomach?
They had to pump it out.
Miss Kubelik, I don't think you ought to call anybody  not till that chewing gum is out of your head.
But they'll be worried about me  my brotherinlaw may be calling the police 
That's why we have to be careful  we don't want to involve anybody  after all, Mr. Sheldrake is a married man 
Thanks for reminding me.
I didn't mean it that way  I was just talking to him on the phone  he's very concerned about you.
He doesn't give a damn about me.
Oh, you're wrong. He told me 
He's a liar. But that's not the worst part of it  the worst part is  I still love him.
She doesn't seem to like you very much.
Oh, I don't mind. As a matter of fact, I'm sort of flattered  that anybody should think a girl like you  would do a thing like this  over a guy like me.
Oh. Did you find something here  an envelope  ?
Yes, I've got it. Don't you think we'd better destroy it? So it won't fall into the wrong hands  ?
Open it.
There's nothing here but a hundred dollar bill.
That's right. Will you see that Mr. Sheldrake gets it?
Sure.
You want me to move the television set in here? You play gin rummy?
I'm not very good at it.
I am. Let me get the cards.
You don't have to entertain me.
I think I'm going to give it all up.
Give what up?
Why do people have to love people, anyway?
Yeah  I know what you mean. Queen.
I don't want it.
Pick a card.
What do you call it when somebody keeps getting smashed up in automobile accidents?
A bad insurance risk?
That's me with men. I've been jinxed from the word go  first time I was ever kissed was in a cemetery.
A cemetery?
I was fifteen  we used to go there to smoke. His name was George  he threw me over for a drum majorette.
Gin.
I just have this talent for falling in love with the wrong guy in the wrong place at the wrong time. BUD How many guys were there?
Three. The last one was manager of a finance company, back home in Pittsburgh  they found a little shortage in his accounts, but he asked me to wait for him  he'll be out in 1965.
Cut.
So I came to New York and moved in with my sister and her husband  he drives a cab. They sent me to secretarial school, and I applied for a job with Consolidated  but I flunked the typing test 
Too slow?
Oh. I can type up a storm, but I can't spell. So they gave me a pair of white gloves and stuck me in an elevator  that's how I met Jeff  Oh, God, I'm so fouled up. What am I going to do now?
You better win a hand  you're on a blitz.
Was he really upset when you told him?
Mr. Sheldrake? Oh, yes. Very.
Maybe he does love me  only he doesn't have the nerve to tell his wife.
I'm sure that's the explanation.
You really think so?
No doubt about it.
Can I have that pad and the pencil?
What for?
I'm going to write a letter to Mrs. Sheldrake.
You are?
As one woman to another  I'm sure she'll understand 
Miss Kubelik, I don't think that's such a good idea.
Why not?
Well, for one thing, you can't spell. And secondly  if you did something like that  you'd hate yourself.
I don't like myself very much anyway.
Pick up your cards and let's go.
Do I have to?
You bet. I got a terrific hand.
You sure you want to throw that card?
Sure.
Gin.
Who was that?
Just somebody delivering a bottle of champagne. Like some?
Would you mind opening the window?
Now don't go getting any ideas, Miss Kubelik.
I just want some fresh air.
It's only one story down  the best you can do is break a leg.
So they'll shoot me  like a horse.
Please, Miss Kubelik, you got to promise me you won't do anything foolish.
Who'd care?
I would.
Why can't I ever fall in love with somebody nice like you?
Yeah. Well  that's the way it crumbles, cookiewise. Go to sleep.
There's a call for you 
For me?
 Mr. Sheldrake.
I don't want to talk to him.
I think you should. I have to run down to the grocery anyway  all that's left around here is one frozen pizza  I'll be right back  okay?
Are you all right?
Sure. What's that funny smell?
Gas. Didn't you turn it on?
Yes. I was boiling some water to get the coffee stains out of my dress.
You turned it on  but you didn't light it.
Are you supposed to?
In this house, you're supposed to.
Oh.
What are you doing with that?
I was washing my stockings, so I decided I might as well do your socks.
Thank you.
It's very curious  I could only find three and a half pair.
Well, things are a little disorganized around here.
Tennis racquet? Oh, I remember  I was cooking myself an Italian dinner. I used it to strain the spaghetti. FRAN Why not?
As a matter of fact, I'm a pretty good cook  but I'm a lousy housekeeper.
Yes, you are, When I was straightening up the couch, you know what I found? Six hairpins, a lipstick, a pair of false eyelashes, and a swizzle stick from the Stork Club.
It's just that I'm the kind of guy who can't say no  I don't mean to girls  I mean 
You mean to someone like Mr. Sheldrake.
I guess so.
I know so. He's a taker.
A what?
Some people take, some people get took  and they know they're getting took  and there's nothing they can do about it.
I wouldn't say that  What would you like to have for diner? There's onion soup and canned asparagus 
I really ought to be getting home. My family will be flipping by now.
You can't leave yet. The doctor says it takes fortyeight hours to get the stuff out of your system.
I wonder how long it takes to get someone you're stuck on out of your system? If they'd only invent some kind of a pump for that 
I know how you feel, Miss Kubelik. You think it's the end of the world  but it's not, really. I went through exactly the same thing myself.
You did?
Well, maybe not exactly  I tried to do it with a gun.
Over a girl?
Worse than that  she was the wife of my best friend  and I was mad for her. But I knew it was hopeless  so I decided to end it all. I went to a pawnshop and bought a fortyfive automatic and drove up to Eden Park  do you know Cincinnati?
No, I don't.
Anyway, I parked the car and loaded the gun  well, you read in the papers all the time that people shoot themselves, but believe me, it's not that easy  I mean, how do you do it?  here, or here, or here   you know where I finally shot myself?
Where?
Here.
In the knee?
Uhhuh. While I was sitting there, trying to make my mind up, a cop stuck his head in the car, because I was illegally parked  so I started to hide the gun under the seat and it went off  pow!
That's terrible.
Yeah. Took me a year before I could bend my knee  but I got over the girl in three weeks. She still lives in Cincinnati, has four kids, gained twenty pounds  she sends me a fruit cake every Christmas.
Are you just making that up to make me feel better?
Of course not. Here's the fruit cake. And you want to see my knee?
No, thanks. The fellows in the office may get the wrong idea how I found out.
So let 'em. Look, I'm going to cook dinner for us. We'll have the fruit cake for dessert. You just sit there and rest. You've done enough for one day.
Yes, nurse.
Are we dressing for dinner?
No  just come as you are.
Say, you're pretty good with that racquet.
You ought to see my backhand. And wait till I serve the meatballs.
Shall I light the candles?
It's a must  graciouslivingwise.
I see you bought some napkins.
Might as well go all the way.
You know, I used to live like Robinson Crusoe  shipwrecked among eight million people. Then one day I saw a footprint in the sand  and there you were  It's a wonderful thing  dinner for two.
You usually eat alone?
Oh, no. Sometimes I have dinner with Ed Sullivan, sometimes with Dinah Shore or Perry Como  the other night I had dinner with Mae West  of course, she was much younger then. Cheers.
Cheers.
You know what we're going to do after dinner?
The dishes?
I mean, after that?
What?
You don't have to if you don't want to 
I don't?
We're going to finish that gin game.
Oh.
So I want you to keep a clear head.
Oh, Miss Kubelik. How do you feel?
Fine. How's your eye?
Fine.
How's everything at the apartment?
Nothing's changed. You know, we never finished that gin game 
I know. I suppose you heard about Mr. Sheldrake ?
You mean, leaving his wife? Yeah. I'm very happy for you.
I never thought he'd do it.
I told you all along. You see, you were wrong about Mr. Sheldrake.
I guess so.
For that matter, you were wrong about me, too. What you said about those who take and those who get took? Well, Mr. Sheldrake wasn't using me  I was using him. See? Last month I was at desk 861 on the nineteenth floor  now I'm on the twentyseventh floor, paneled office, three windows  so it all worked out fine  we're both getting what we want.
Yes. You walking to the subway?
No, thank you. I  well, to tell you the truth   I have this heavy date for tonight 
Oh.
Aren't you meeting Mr. Sheldrake?
No. You know how people talk. So I decided it would be better if we didn't see each other till everything is settled, divorcewise.
That's very wise.
Good night, Mr. Baxter.
Good night, Miss Kubelik.
Are you all right?
I'm fine.
Are you sure? How's your knee?
I'm fine all over.
Mind if I come in?
Of course not.
Where are you going? BUD Who knows? Another neighborhood  another town  another job  I'm on my own.
That's funny  so am I. What did you do with the cards?
In there.
What about Mr. Sheldrake?
I'm going to send him a fruit cake every Christmas.
I love you, Miss Kubelik.
Seven   queen.
Did you hear what I said, Miss Kubelik? I absolutely adore you.
Shut up and deal!
All right  I'll tell him. Hey, Baxter  that was Personnel. Mr. Sheldrake's secretary.
Sheldrake?
She's been trying to reach you for the last twenty minutes. They want you up stairs.
Oh!
What gives, Baxter? You getting promoted or getting fired?
Care to make a small wager?
I've been here twice as long as you have 
Shall we say  a dollar?
It's a bet.
Oh. Hello there, Mrs. Dreyfuss.
Something the matter?
I seem to have dropped my key. Oh  here it is.
Such a racket I heard in your place  maybe you had burglars.
Oh, you don't have to worry about that  nothing in there that anybody would want to steal... Good night, Mrs. Dreyfuss.
Mrs. Dreyfuss, can I borrow some coffee  and maybe an orange and a couple of eggs?
Eggs he asks me for. Oranges. What you need is a good horsewhipping.
Ma'am?
From me the doctor has no secrets. Poor girl  how could you do a thing like that?
I didn't really do anything  honest  I mean, you take a girl out a couple of times a week  just for laughs  and right away she thinks you're serious  marriagewise.
Big shot! For you, I wouldn't lift a finger  but for her, I'll fix a little something to eat.
You wouldn't have such a thing as a napkin, would you?
Well, I have some paper towels 
Beatnik! Go to my kitchen  third drawer, under the good silver, there is napkins.
Yes, Mrs. Dreyfuss. He starts out with a worried backward glance toward the two. Fran is just sitting there, the spoon in her hand, not touching the soup.
So what are you waiting for  a singing commercial?
You must eat  and you must get healthy  and you must forget him. Such a fine boy he seemed when he first moved in here  clean and cut  a regular Ivy Leaguer. Turns out he is King Farouk. Mit the drinking  mit the cha cha  mit the no napkins. A girl like you, for the rest of your life you want to cry in your noodle soup? Who needs it! You listen to me, you find yourself a nice, substantial man  a widower maybe  and settle down  instead of nashing all those sleeping pills  for what, for whom?  for some Good Time Charlie? Sssh!
One napkin, coming up. I wish we had some champagne to wrap it around.
What did I tell you?
Look, Mrs. Dreyfuss, you don't have to wait around. I'll wash the dishes and 
You wash 'em, you break 'em. I'll come back for them later. If he makes trouble, give me a yell.
I'm getting lonely. Who are you talking to, anyway?
My mother.
That's sweet. That's real sweet.
This the place?
Yeah. How much?
You sure this is a good idea? DOBISCH Can't think of a better one.
I mean  barging in on your mother  in the middle of the night?
Don't worry about the old lady. One squawk from her, and she's out of a job.
Not there. Under the mat.
Under the mat?
So this is your mother's apartment?
That's right. Maria Ouspenskaya. BLONDE Hiya, Ouspenskaya.
We declared war again? Are you scared?
I'll be back.
Did you see that? How he gave <u>you</u> the beers, not me? I'm telling you, he's got something against workers.
I don't know what you're talking about, Z.
Come on  everybody dumps on us workers. You soldiers get all the glory. Plus you get to go out into the world, meet interesting insects, and kill them.
Yeah, but you get to spend all day with those fabulous worker babes.
Weaver, they're career girls. They're obsessed with digging. No, I'll probably never meet the girl for me.
Who said there was a girl for you? I was talking about a girl for me. Don't you want your aphid beer?
I can't help it. I have a thing about drinking from the anus of another creature. Call me crazy.
Z, we've known each other a long time, right?
Of course. You were born two seconds after me.
And all the time I've known you, you've been grumping and groaning. You should quit making waves. Go with the flow.
Weaver, I'm an insect, not a liquid.
Hey, did you hear what he said?!
Poor guy's had one too many scouting missions.
Time to cut a rug, Z!
I'm not in the mood. Even when they're off work, they follow orders.
Well, you just sit here and be a partypooper.
Get real, Z! She just dropped the scarf by accident!
Are you kidding? There were sparks between us! This scarf is a sign!
It's a sign that you're crazy! Do you know what the penalty for impersonating a soldier is?
What's gonna go wrong?! I take your place for the royal inspection. Bala comes strolling down the line, she sees me  <u>bingo</u>! Love is rekindled, and she takes me up to the palace for a little... tea and crumpets... and you take your place again, and go march around to your heart's content!
You have to help me. Please, Weaver. Think of all the things I've done for you!
I can't think of any.
Well I'm gonna <u>start</u> doing things for you...
Will you introduce me to some worker girls?
You bet! They'll really go for a sensitive guy like you!
Maybe I'll get lucky. You know, Z, I wouldn't do this for anyone but you...
Wear this.
You're a real buddy.
Yeah, I know.
What do I do?
Don't tell anyone you're a worker. Follow that column over there. And come right back after the inspection!
Yeah, but I hate drowning more! Now <u>dig</u>!
You heard the ant  DIG!!!
I feel...isolated. Different. I've got abandonment issues. My father flew away when I was just a larva. My mother didn't have much time for me...when you have five million siblings, it's difficult to get attention. I feel physically inadequate  I've never been able to lift more than ten times my own weight. Sometimes I think I'm just not cut out to be a worker. But I don't have any other options. I was assigned to trade school when I was just a <u>grub</u>. The whole system just...makes me feel...<u>insignificant</u>.
Terrific! You <u>should</u> feel insignificant!
...I should?
YES!!! You know, people ask me, "Doctor, why are you always happy?" And I tell them it's mind over matter. I don't <u>mind</u> that I don't <u>matter</u>! Do you get it? Do you get it?
Ask me why we're so successful.
Why are we so successful?
I'm glad you asked me that question!
What do you see out there?
...Ants...
Right! Ants! Millions of creatures, each with his assigned task, all pulling together!
You see? Being an ant is being able to say, "Hey  <u>I'm</u> meaningless, <u>you're</u> meaningless."
But  but I've always felt life was about finding meaning...and then sharing it with someone special, someone you love.
General, the severe food shortage that faces the colony...<u>pains</u> me. The thought of any of my children going hungry... Who's the cutest widdle worker? You are! Yes, you! Don't forget to brush your teeth! Ship 'er out. What steps are you taking to remedy the situation?
We are launching a major offensive to expand our foraging territory...
Yes, what else?
Please don't worry, your majesty. Leave the worrying to me. As you know, I'm not an ant of half measures. I don't pussyfoot around. This crisis is my number one priority, and I promise you it's being dealt with swiftly, and decisively.
No snacking between meals! Off you go! Now  what were we saying?
I do not recollect, your majesty. Will that be all?
Yes, General Formica. Carry on, my good man! I don't know what we would do without you.
Conversation...yes...well... Wasn't she briefed?
Look, General! A darling baby soldier! Don't try to be a hero! Just make sure you come back in one piece! Next!
I'll take your suggestion under advisement, Princess. In the meanwhile 
All these parties are so marvellously <u>alike</u>.
They should be... But there's something funny about that soldier.
Your majesty, I'm afraid matters of state keep me from attending the ceremony.
But General  this tunnel is your baby! You're sure you can't stay ?
'Fraid not, your majesty. Goodbye, your majesty.
Very well, General  I know you  all work and no play!
Alright, let's move out!
Lays it on a little thick, doesn't he? If you ask me, he's one giant bore.
Now I've heard a lot of scuttlebutt about a <u>food shortage</u>. Well you boys are gonna be taken care of. But in the meantime we're gonna eat the enemy for <u>breakfast</u>, we are gonna eat the enemy for <u>lunch</u>, and we are gonna eat the enemy for <u>dinner</u>!
Geez, and I forgot my toothbrush.
Dammit, I'm proud to be an ant. And I know each and every one of you boys will do your duty. Dismissed.
No  you  you don't understand!
Damn, I'm proud of you, boy. I wish I had a hundred ants of your caliber. The world would tremble. Now, time for some R and R. You're invited to the royal victory party!
Royal victory party? Will...will Princess Bala be there?
Of course. The entire royal family will be there to honor you.
ONE TO NOTHING!
Son, you're an ant after my own heart. A warrior. An ant that looks death right in the face and <u>laughs</u>.
Well, I generally just make belittling comments and snicker behind death's back. So, tell me, fellow warmonger...do you think Princess Bala likes men in uniform?
Well she better  she's engaged to one. <u>Me</u>!
Engaged? As in you're getting married?
Affirmative.
So...you two are in love?
In love? I'm just a plain old soldier at heart. I'll tell you what I love  the field  blood  death  orders...and the company of other warriors.
Wow, what a spread  you know, there's a food shortage in the rest of the colony.
Yes, and do you know <u>why</u> there's a food shortage?
...Not enough food?
Negatory. <u>Too many ants</u>. And while we soldiers go out there, and fight, and bleed, and die for the colony, the nambypamby workers live it up back home.
Well I, I don't think "living it up" is the right term  how about "working themselves to death"?
I tell you son, sometimes, at night, I see myself in battle, fighting a horrible, faceless enemy, with the future of our whole species at stake. And always, the dream ends with each of us plunging his sword into the other's heart...
Oh, hey, that's great, I think I see an old war buddy over there, it's been fun chatting. Good luck with the hallucinations.
May I cut in?
Oh, of course 
What's this? A <u>worker</u> has been masquerading as a war hero?!
Well it wasn't a masquerade, really, it was more what I'd call a clever ruse 
ARREST HIM!
Can't we all settle this like adults  we're not larvae anymore 
So this Z...he fancies himself an individual?
Yeah...I mean...well...I don't know, really, sir.
Well now <u>you</u> haven't fallen for this silly idea of individuality, have you?
Oh, no, sir!
Good. You're a good soldier.
Thank you, sir.
So tell me. Where's Z?
I...I have no idea, sir.
Okay, son.
We know what makes an ant colony strong, don't we? We know that no ant can be an individual. No <u>single</u> ant matters, right?
That's correct, sir!
Not that one. Or that one.
No, sir!
Princess Bala, sir. Your fiancee.
Princess! You look  outstanding. Is there anything I can do for you?
Actually, sir, we're ahead of schedule. We have thirtysix seconds available right now.
Outstanding. Princess...?
Fourteenfifty hours, sir.
Duty calls!
Dammit, this tunnel is priority A1! We can't afford <u>any delays</u> on this project!
I've never seen anything like it, General, they're they're...well, look!
Notice the big one, holding hands with the female?
Well, uh, who notices workers, sir?
No one should have to. Have him brought to me.
What do we have on this "Insectopia"?
Scattered reports, sir. Rumors. Nothing reliable.
Desperate times call for desperate measures. Get me Ant Team Six.
Ant Team Six...
What are you doing?! ATTACK!! Come on, you yellowbellies! Don't just stand there, Carpenter! Make an example of yourself!
Uh, actually, we <u>are</u> outnumbered sir...
You new, kid?
I just joined up. But I'm quitting! I got a trial membership!
Trial membership? Kid, when you join this ant's army, you're in for the full hitch.
You just stick by old Barbatus. He'll watch out for you. Whatsamatter, kid? Leave a girl behind?
Yeah. Well  no. She's kind of playing hard to get. As a matter of fact, she's playing completely unattainable. So, what's on the schedule? A brisk walk? a foraging expedition?
No  we're going to attack the termites!
Attack? But  I hate attacking! It's so hostile!
Well, what exactly does our platoon do? Serve beverages? Process paperwork?
Our platoon has the best assignment of all. We're the first into battle!
So we're going back for more armor, right? I mean, these guys are from outer space, how are we supposed to beat them?!
Superior numbers, kid!
Don't be scared, kid. Barbatus's got yer back.
Maybe they went out for the evening. Let's leave them a message and head home.
BARBATUS! You  you saved my life!
Don't get all sappy about it!
Z! Over here!
Barbatus?
Barbatus!
Be honest, kid  am I hurt bad?
No, no, you're...lookin' good. You've got good color in your cheeks.
No  I can see it in your eyes. I'm a goner. It's alright, Z. In this ant's army, a soldier's life ain't worth a sack of fungus. I can't feel my legs...
Hang in there, buddy! You can make it! Just  take deep breaths, I'll try and find your body  it's gotta be around here somewhere!
I wonder...what...was it all...for...
Barbatus, hang on  Barbatus!!
Don't make my mistake, kid... don't...be a grunt...your whole life...
Bala has always been a hopeless romantic, General.
It's just that  well, I'm honored that you selected me, and everything, I just thought the marriage might go a little more smoothly if  we had a conversation?
I felt the same way before I got married. Confused. Scared.
You did?
Yes  but I did my duty and sorted out all those messy feelings. The wonderful thing about ant life is that everything is arranged. Even marriage. You're lucky  General Formica is a paragon of anthood.
Yes...he's wonderful...
Who is that idiot?
Darling, you must encourage the troops  wave!
Bala!
Mom!
The Club's so <u>stuffy</u>. I want to try someplace different.
There isn't anyplace else  Except the worker bar.
The worker bar! Yes! That's where I want to go!
We shouldn't be doing this  it isn't proper!
I'm the Princess, aren't I?
Of course 
And do Princesses do improper things?
Of course not 
Then if I go to the worker bar, it isn't improper. Anyway, don't worry. No one will recognize us in our disguises.
What a bunch of losers. Mindless zombies capitulating to an oppressive system 
Wanna dance?
So uh  how come I haven't seen you around here before?
I work in the palace, I don't get out much.
The palace, hunh? I bet those royals really live it up. Of course they're all a little, you know, from inbreeding 
<u>What</u>?
Are you sure this is a real dance?
Well, actually, uh  I'm sort of making it up 
Really?
Why should everyone dance the same way? It's as exciting as watching fungus grow.
You're right!
You  you think I'm right?
Why can't I just do whatever I want to do? Why can't I just go wild?! Yahoo!
You watch yours, soldier, or my worker friend will beat you up!
Oh, that's okay, I'll let him off this time. Are you crazy? This guy's built like a pebble! You know they do great prosthetic antennas nowadays 
Aren't you gonna stand up for yourself?
Uh oh. Goodbye! Gotta run!
Wait! When can I see you again?
Let me think. Hmmnn... Never. Bye!
You're the hero of the recent termite campaign, aren't you?
Well, if singlehandedly vanquishing the enemy and slaughtering a whole nestful of termites makes someone a hero, yes I am.
And you are...?
I'm Princess Bala.
Ah, yes. Well, charmed, I'm sure. So, Princess, have you ever danced with a hero?
Yes.
Oh...oh well then, one more won't matter.
No, General. I'm dancing with the war hero.
Uh, sorry, General, I...I've always had this animal magnetism, it 
You dance...
Divinely?
No weirdly...You remind me of someone...
He was a worker. I danced with him at a <u>worker's bar</u> just the other day. I'm not shocking you, am I?
No...as a matter of fact...
OH MY GOD, IT'S YOU! YOU'RE A WORKER!!! A filthy, stupid, disgusting WORKER!
Gee, uh, could you say it a little louder, I think there are some ants in the next colony who didn't hear you.
I CAN'T DANCE WITH A WORKER!
That's not what you said the <u>other</u> <u>night</u> 
Quiet  sshhh!!
 At the <u>worker bar</u>! You were pretty hot to trot then!
SSHH!!! SSHH!!!
What <u>was</u> that thing?
How should <u>I know</u>?
I order you to find out where we are!
Alright, alright, I'll try to get directions from one of the locals.
Excuse me, I  Pardon me  And they call them social insects.
Climb up that tree and get a better view!
I've been kidnapped by the village idiot.
Who's the bigger idiot  the idiot who gets kidnapped, or the idiot who lets herself get kidnapped by the idiot?
How dare you speak to me like that? I'm the Princess!
Theoretically, yes. But is the monarchical hierarchy applicable without the underlying social structure to support it?
Of course! It defines society! To deny the precept is to say that order is an arbitrary distinction applied by the society itself!
But can there be a society composed of just two ants?
No! There's no such thing as "just two ants." You never see just two ants  you see a million ants!
Look around, sweetheart.
I  <u>hate</u>  you.
Well I guess that makes us even.
Ha! Don't make me laugh. You're crazy about me! That's why you lied and cheated to get near me!
Oh come on, <u>you're</u> the one who came after me  the swarthy, earthy, sensual worker!
I was <u>slumming it</u>! I danced with you because you were the most pathetic specimen in the place!
Is that the same standard you used to choose General Formica?
I <u>didn't</u> choose him. What kind of <u>idiot</u> would... ...<u>choose</u> who she wanted to marry?
Now, worker, you shall take me back to the colony, and have your head cut off and stuck on a sharp pole!
Well, that's an appealing offer, but...considering the options... You go back. Me, I'm going to Insectopia.
<u>Insectopia</u>? You stupid worker, that's just a fairy tale!
Yeah, well I have it on a reliable source... that it exists. Now you follow the yellow egg... <u>That</u> direction.
Worker! Come back here now!
I've got a <u>name</u>. It's <u>Z</u>.
That's not a name! That's just a letter!
Water...water...
Water...water  oh, you already said that.
My skin's dry, my exoskeleton is cracking...I wish I'd never met you, you ruined my life.
<u>I</u> ruined <u>your</u> life? Look, I was perfectly happy until I met you  alright, I was miserable, but I was <u>happily miserable</u>.
We're going to die!
Come on  it's gone! What are the chances of that happening again?
Why didn't I listen to my mother ...why'd I have to go looking for trouble? Any ant would have given their left legs to be in my position...what's <u>wrong</u> with me?
Want a list?
Wait, I hear something!
This lake is huge! And so close to the colony! Think of the vacation potential!
Cut me down a soft leaf so I can take a nap.
Listen, "Princess", you can't order me around. Out here, you're not the boss anymore  out here, you're just 
Out here I'm just what?
Hlllllllp!
Stop fooling around in there.
Princess, has it ever occurred to you that they're <u>not going to rescue you</u>?
General Formica won't let me die out here. I'm his fiancee.
Look. How many other Princesses are there?
Five thousand three hundred and ninety  no. About five thousand four hundred by now.
And only you can become a Queen?
Well...no, but 
So what makes you so special?
Well...I <u>am</u> the oldest.
Face it, Z, we're lost! We must have walked halfway across the world by now! How did I get into this mess...
Come on...tell me there wasn't just a little...something between us that first night at the bar. The night we danced.
What difference does it make...we're both going to starve to death, or get squished, or set on fire...
We've found it! <u>Insectopia</u>! Look at all this food'
You were right...you were right! Z, it's <u>beautiful</u>!
Let's dig in!
Z...if we don't make it...I just want you to know....
Yes?
<u>This is all your fault</u>!!!
Come on, Z.
Forget it. You go ahead, I give up. I...I don't know what I was thinking. "Insectopia".
So...you never did tell me...what made you come out to the worker bar that night?
Just looking for fun, adventure, trouble, I guess.
Well, "trouble" is my middle name. Actually, my middle name is .985, but I don't tell people. Hey, Bala, I...I actually have something of yours...you left it at the bar that night.
Sorry, it's been through a war, not to mention everything else...
You held onto this all that time?
Well, I...I know it's a little strange, but...I thought it might come in handy if I...needed a scarf someday. Well, to be honest, I just liked having it.
Why do they have you tied up here?
There's something going on, Z 
Bala, that  that lake we found  I think the tunnel's right underneath it!  Formica's going to <u>flood the</u> <u>colony</u>!!! That's what he meant when said there were too many ants!
Oh no...
Z! what are you doing?
I know it's crazy, but  I can't just leave. Don't argue with me. If I've learned anything, it's that the problems of two people don't add up to a hill of ants in this world. Or beans. Something like that. Anyway, I've <u>got to warn the others</u>.
I mean, I've got the whole package, right? A great life, a beautiful wife, and a few kids.
A <u>few</u>?
General  we have to talk sometime!
Very well. Carpenter, is there a convenient time to talk visavis: relationship?
So, um...how was your day? What did you do?
Well... I declared war!
Oh...and I was afraid we had nothing in common...
He's...he's dead. You don't have to look for him anymore. He was eaten by a praying mantis.
It's a shame he died prematurely...I was hoping to kill him myself.
Well you'll never be able to hurt him where he is now. I miss him already.
You miss him? <u>Why</u>?
Because...because he's <u>twice</u> the ant that you are. I could <u>never</u> go through with marrying you. I'm  I'm an <u>individual</u>, and when I get married, it'll be to someone <u>I</u> choose.
Hey, slow it down, big boy. You're making the rest of us look bad...How come I haven't seen you around here before?
I'm new...I was born yesterday.
Tell me about it.
Nobody told me digging was so much fun! You pick up the dirt, you move it, you pick it up again, you move it again  lots of repetitions, you exercise the forceps, and the pincers 
Mmm, yes, I see what you mean...
I don't know what came over me, talking back like that. I must be going crazy...
Sorry I got you in trouble. But listen, you can share my rations.
Are you asking me out to dinner?
No  I mean yes  I mean  if you don't have other plans.
I'll make myself available...Listen, better watch out with the backtalk. I don't know want you to end up like the guy who used to work next to me. I'm afraid he got... <u>downsized</u>.
Wait a minute, that's no soldier  that's Z!
Z? <u>Our</u> Z? The little guy made it!
You know, you're not just workers  you can be whatever you want to be! Look at Z! He started as a worker  then he became a soldier!
That's right! He slaughtered hundreds of termites singlehandedly!
Well, because he's more than a worker...he's a...what did he call it, Azteca...
Invisible!
No  an <u>individual</u>!
Someone who follows his heart!
Right...because every ant's important!
Sorry Azteca. Here you go, fellas! Fresh dirt! Alley oop! Shouldn't we be wearing gloves? I mean this dirt is very...dirty. Doesn't anyone think of hygiene? Boy am I hungry. I'm so hungry I'm seeing double. It looks like there's <u>two</u> million ants in here. When's lunch? Tomorrow, or the day after?
Z, old pal... SHUT UP!!! It's bad enough there's a food shortage without you complaining about it every day.
The squeaky wheel gets the oil.
No, Z. The squeaky wheel gets <u>thrown</u> <u>away</u>, alright? You're a good ant, Z, even though you are a pain in my rear segment. I don't wanna see anything happen to you. So quit mouthing off, before you get in trouble.
Thank goodness. Breaktime.
Break's over.
This colony needs another tunnel like a hole in the ground. Why are we even digging this thing?
Who cares, Z. All I know is, we gotta dig. We're not the ones in charge.
Enough about me.
Evie has a little something for you.
Oh my God! America told me your neighbors are coming?
And here they are!
And she was saying how happy you were to finally have them over. Because you're both, so, what  introspective? And you should have done it ages ago. I'm Sophia Gold. Come meet my husband, Cal.
He's a novelist.
Ah.
Like Joe.
Hmm. Where are my kids?
In the guest room. I've laid out a paint table for them.
I hope they're watercolors!
Nevermind.
Would you like to meet my husband?
Isn't this a fabulous picture?
Yes.
She's such a great photographer.
Hm.
So where should I put it?
I thought it was okay where it was.
It's much more personal in here.
A notch above the storage room.
We're always in here. She really gets him, doesn't she?
The both of you.
But she really gets to the heart of Joe, doesn't she? She's a genius.
So how much do you hate her?
Big time.
Well, I don't trust her. I never have.
She took our wedding photos, for chrissakes. You don't trust anyone.
I trust you.
Oh Soph...
You'll hate it in London. It's wet and miserable. A medical hellhole Sally. It's socialized. Beds in the corridors. Terrible plumbing.
And the food sucks, I know.
You are not having your baby in London. You're going to have your baby at Cedars in Beverly Hills, America, delivered by Dr. Milton Cohen. Period. And you're getting that epidural right away, don't let anyone talk you into any of that Lamase bullshit. There's no excuse for pain like that.
Sophia! I'm not even pregnant!
Well good. Thank God.
Let's go in the kitchen and spy on everyone.
Oh honey, let's.
What do you mean, thank God?
Well, are you sure about this baby thing? It's not the ticking clock shit, is it?
No, no, not at all... I mean I've still got plenty of time. Don't I? I mean I still have a good six years, whatever. We could have three kids yet, if we wanted. And I know I've always said I never wanted kids, and I didn't... but this year, I really, truly, feel ready...
Honey, I'm not worried about you. You are going to be a fantastic mom. Not an issue. I pressed you, remember? Joe, on the other hand, is a different story.
Oh Soph, Joe loves kids. Joe wants kids. Joe thinks he needs kids.
He wants playmates. Oh he's a sweetheart, Sal, you know I love him. But he's not going to be a good father. He's just not parenting material.
Hey, let's sit down. I bet the rug feels really nice against your skin.
Don't try and change the subject. Oh God, it feels great! He's just a little narcissistic, irresponsible and unreliable.
And Cal's this massive adult?
Cal knows who he is. Did you notice how happy Joe was when the drugs came out tonight?
You weren't exactly horrified.
I don't have a drug problem.
Neither does Joe.
His sister does. Big time. And the New York Times says addiction is genetic  I'll email you the article.
You don't have kids to keep a marriage together, Sally. It's only five months since Joe came back.
We're fine. We're great. We're having a baby and we're moving to London.
Well, you weren't fine last summer when you went Sylvia Plath on me in Connecticut.
Not nice. Not kind.
Ha! Not half so not kind as your husband was in his portrayal of you in his novel.
Why are you doing this?
His image of you is a possessive, fragile neurotic.
But I am a possessive, fragile neurotic.
No you are not. You're Sally Nash. Listen to me, you're Sally Nash. You're my best friend and I love you more than anyone, and you're not going to move to London to have the offspring of a sexually ambivalent manchild. "Oh now I'm a novelist, oh now I'm a director..." English prick bastard Joe Therrian who's probably going to leave you for Skye Davidson anyway.
Oh my God, sorry. I'm interrupting.
I'll be right out.
I don't think I ever spent half a day in the Beverly Center.
Whatever, do you remember? I've seen all your movies. When I was in rehab, the second time, they wouldn't even let us see your drug addict movie. They said you were too real. I worship you. And I couldn't be more flattered, because I know the part I'm playing in Joe's movie is based on you as a young woman.
Happy anniversary. Thank you for making me a part of it.
What are they?
You don't need to do that.
I don't mind...
Relax. You've done enough.
Yes.
Well, so glad you decided to come.
Thank you. This was so unnecessary. I hope you've noticed that Otis isn't barking as much. We keep him in at night.
At 4:30 today he barked for a solid fifteen minutes. I have it on tape.
You're keeping a record, are you?
It's just very distracting when you're trying to work.
Well the neighborhood is full of dogs, and it's not always Otis.
Well today it was Otis. And you should keep him away from our yard. Because Sheila will defend herself.
Monica and Ryan.
Rose.
I didn't know you had this.
Oh. Well, yes. It's extraordinary. You think you could sign it for us?
Absolutely. You always wonder where your books end up. Why don't we use it?
Good, you brought your violin. I want you to play.
It's a machine gun. I thought I'd kill myself.
Are you lovesick?
Suicidal. It's much less codependent.
Will champagne help?
Not enough.
Panes is here!
Oh great.
She's even better looking in the flesh.
Really? I need a drink. Come hide with me.
Oh, Jesus, Panes. I can't, I can't believe that bitch is in my house.
You don't know she's a bitch.
She's all over him, are you blind?
It could be worse.
How?
She could be playing the role in Joe's movie that should be yours.
Fuck you, Panes.
You see, that's worse.
I just wanted tonight to be with the people we love.
Like your business managers?
They're not just our business managers, Panes.
Oh, okay, forgive me. Your neighbors are here, for fuck's sake.
Exactly what I mean. It's all ruined.
It's not ruined, for fuck's sake. It's one of your parties.
I don't want it to be just one of our parties.
"How are you really doing, Panes?" "Lousy, thank you, I'm falling apart."
Like the last time.
No. No, not like the last time. She was the rest of my life.
Like the last time.
I wasn't finished.
Okay.
"We can't stand seeing you like this, Panes. I hate you being alone. Why don't you stay with us for a while?" "I'd love to, thanks."
It's our anniversary, Panes.
I didn't hear me say tonight.
We're just feeling our way back.
"Otherwise, we'd insist on your being here."
You know it's true.
Everyday.
I'm Levi Panes. Will you excuse us, Skye? It's time for Sally's meds.
Shit!
I'd cut off her red wine if I were you.
Shit. It's my Galiano.
What does that mean?
About five thousand dollars. With my discount.
So how are you really doing, Panes?
Why don't you go fuck yourself?
No. Really. For real. Really.
I'm worried about your Galiano.
You're a shit.
No, really, five thousand with your discount.
How's the movie going? Your movie. You are making a movie, aren't you?
Yes. Fine.
That's it? Yes. Fine?
I don't want to talk about it.
Why not?
I never like to talk about my work.
Alright. Well, that's something new.
No. Not something new.
Well, something's wrong.
Nothing's wrong. It's great, okay? Having the time of my life. Mac's a fantastic director. And what can anyone say about Cal that hasn't been said. And it's great working with friends, blah blah blah.
Um. Happy for you.
Thanks.
So tell me, how's it going?
Oh you know. No doubts. No second thoughts. Am I a monster?
You're my best friend.
That's not an answer, is it?
Yes, you're a monster.
Thank you, Panes.
You don't need to thank me.
We're going to have to go back out there.
I guess.
Panes?
From Jewish Folk Poetry, a song cycle...
What did I do?
Panes is not on my team anymore. I'll have Panes if I like.
Come on in.
I'm in the same room with Sally Nash. Oh my God. You're my icon. I've been watching your films since I was a little girl. Like, four years ago I followed you all around the Beverly Center  at least half a day, working up the courage to introduce myself.
And I'm overwhelmed. And I want to do it justice. And I hope we can spend time together. And I'm gushing. It's my worst quality.
Not at all.
Oh my god. I've been so rude. I'm Skye Davidson. Has anyone ever told you, you look like Peter Sellers?
No, never.
Is there space here?
Yes.
Do you need anything else?
No, no thanks.
I was impressed.
Oh?
The charades.
Thank you.
That was my clue.
Oh?
The Shostakovich.
Really??
Oh yes, indeed. That was my clue, you see.
Otis!! Shostakovich identified with the Jew. He felt persecuted, hunted, crushed under the thumb of Stalinist imperialism.
Not to mention Andrew Zhdanov... Otis, come!!
Andre Zhdanov? How the hell do you know about Andre Zhdanov?
Who doesn't know about the infamous composer's conference of 1948 where Zhdanov persecuted the leaders of Soviet Music  Shostakovich, Prokofieve, and Myaskovsky.
I'll tell you who doesn't know, cute girls don't know.
Do Peter Sellers again.
Otis you crazy dog! Otis are you in this God forsaken Canyon? My people are very hungry.
I just did a movie about Bob Yar, I played Gittle, the Jewish milkmaid who gets shot in the head, and they used Shostakovich's 13th Symphony.
Set to the poem of Yetveshenko!
Exactly! So I dug it, and I did a lot of research.
Do you really, you really, like Shostakovich?
Yeah.
Would you, like, marry him?
If he were still alive, maybe.
How about someone who really really liked Shostakovich?
Are you asking me to marry you?
No, I'm just testing to see how deeply perverted and impulsive you are.
Very.
Oh good, I'm worse... Are you really twentytwo?
Who told you that? No. I'm twenty... Five.
Hi. Monica and Ryan?
Sally?
Yes. And you've met Joe.
We could hardly say no.
Oh?
Ryan!
Are you working on a new book?
Hors d'oeuvres or something?
Yes, great! It's a beautiful house.
Thank you. I understand you're an interior decorator.
Yes.
I so wish I'd known.
Well, whoever did this is amazing.
I did it.
I'm sorry.
There's a goddamn sign on the gate.
I'm so sorry.
You fucking cow, can't you read?!
I...
How long ago was it?
Ryan.
I'm sure you understand.
Well, yes, actually.
He always has two or three going...
I love it here. Don't you love it here, Ryan? I love it here. And I love tonight. And I love these people. And this feels utterly fantastic, Ryan. Utterly fantastic.
You know what Sally Therrian was saying about your spine and your brain? She didn't pull that out of thin air. It causes brain damage. You'd better drink a lot of water.
Do you want to go home, Ryan?
Yes.
I think you should then. You should look in on Sheila.
I'm not going to leave you alone.
They're really nice people, Ryan. They're like us...
They're nothing like us.
I think you need to speak for yourself, Ryan. But I think you're really nice people...
Are you making an ass of yourself?
There's only you, Ryan. You know what, Ryan? You're beautiful. I love you so much... You need...
I don't need a drug.
You need a good review and you'll be fine. The whole color of the world will change, mark my words.
Ready to go?
I'm going to go get my swimsuit. I do know, Ryan, this is non addictive so you mustn't worry. Ryan, you're a great man.
Ryan, you've got to come! You've got to help me find the dog! I let their dog out. We need to find the dog.
You're not serious.
I left the gate open and Otis got out! He could get hit by a car!
God willing.
We have to find the dog, Ryan.
Why?
Because we're nice people, and because what goes around comes around. Because, God help you if something happens to that dog?
Excuse me?
All the ugly phone calls? We're not the only people with a tape recorder, Ryan. They've gone to the canyon, we should go towards the PCH.
Jesus Christ, it's a fucking dog!
Don't go in, Ryan.
What?
Let's just go home, okay?
Of course it's alright.
Clair is a hovering mother.
What?
Trust him.
I didn't say a word.
Time!
I was faking it. I've been feeling caged for sometime. Funny, huh?
No, it's not... Fuck fuck fuck fuck.
Jesus Christ.
Well...wow...
How's he doing?
Not good.
How do you do, Skye?
Oh, I love that. I'm just great. I'm so happy to be here. And I apologize for invading you. And I'm so happy you asked me to. I'm so touched. I know how private you and Sally are.
Yeah, well, it's just us and a few hundred of our closest friends.
When I read your work I felt that you knew me. Women must tell you that. And this one in particular speaks to me, do you know? I am Genna. How many women must tell you that. And the script is wonderful. Wonderful and lean and visual...
I'm so happy you like it. I'm so relieved you said yes, and I'm really, um, what, thrilled, yes actually, to finally meet you.
You're going to be a remarkable director, a brilliant director.
I think there are sixteen there.
This is an amazing present. What a sweetheart you are.
Please, Ryan.
No, he's absolutely right. You're absolutely right, Ryan. Dog talk must be banned. Canine conversations are completely discouraged... it's really good of you to join us. Can I get you a drink?
Something soft.
Right away. Are you sure you wouldn't like something soft, Ryan?
Your Eames table is incredible. And the B&B. I just put that in a client's home, actually, but in red.
You're an interior decorator, right?
Sally did all this herself?
In fits and starts  and then, later, of course, she had to accommodate me. So things shifted a little bit then, became more eclectic. And it keeps changing.
Mmm. It says something about the two of you maybe.
Yeah, we're in a constant state of flux. I see you've moved up from the soft stuff.
Oh, yes. You know Ryan's been sober eight years. And it's difficult if I... you know. It's better if I don't.
Uhhuh.
I'm a little nervous, so...
Oh.
A little out of my element.
No you're not.
Well, yes. Yes, in fact. A little on the outside, yes. And there's been all this friction.
Hm.
I don't know why, but these misunderstandings have a way of escalating.
Very well put.
I think a lot of this could have been avoided if Sally made more of an effort.
What?
But you're very private people. You know, there's a kind of elitism...
Elitism?
The wrong word, maybe. Delete that. And, you know, the dog barks incessantly.
And you know, he really does not.
And Ryan works at home.
And your phone calls are nasty and abusive. And I've come this close to suing you for harassment. And you're only here because we're supposed to be sucking up to you.
Oh shit. I'm sorry.
Well, that's what Ryan thought. I was more generous, actually.
Oh shit. I'm sorry. I'm a total fucking maniac. Delete all that, okay? I spoke for myself, this needn't rub off on my wife. Oh shit. I get pissy sometimes. Much worse than Otis. Otis doesn't bite. It's just, I really love my dog and he doesn't really bark a lot. We live in a canyon. We hear dogs barking at night, too. And it's not Otis.
Easy tiger.
Alright. Please don't tell Ryan I'm drinking.
Scout's honor.
I'll be your best friend.
Would you sign it for me. I'm sure this is inappropriate.
We're way past inappropriate.
I need to leave you now.
I will treasure this.
Sally!!!!
Are you okay?
I don't think so. I feel. I feel a bit funny.
Let's go for a walk.
I've never done this before.
Oh? It's easy. You just put one foot in front of the other... That's a good girl.
I'm a little in the puke zone.
Here, drink this. Drink lots of water. Hold on to this. Take deep breaths. Nice and slow. Would you like a lolly?
What am I, five?
You're never too old for a lolly. I'm having one.
Okay.
Lemon or raspberry?
Lemon.
Lemon it is.
Ryan's really angry with me.
I think he's really angry with me too.
It's really not the same thing. He was really nicer when he drank.
I'm sorry.
Eight years, though. That's quite an accomplishment.
That's a lot of those.
Medallions.
A lot of cakes.
Yes.
And he doesn't smoke?
He has to find nonsmoker's meetings that used to be almost impossible, you know? It's gotten much better.
How long have you been married?
Nine...nine, yes? Nine years, just about.
You must have been a baby.
Oh yes. Nineteen...just. I'm cold.
Come here.
That's very nice.
I like you.
I'm so glad. You know, I recognize that passage in your book. The bit about us running into each other in the movie theatre.
Sorry?
I know you changed it to a bookstore. And the color of my hair. But the moment was exactly the same. The same, you know, dynamic. And almost verbatim, wasn't it?
Yeah, it was. For a writer nothing's sacred. No, nothing at all.
I think it's great that I made an impression at all, you know.
Stop being such a bitch, Sal.
I'm so sorry.
It was a mistake. This isn't a plot to do in Otis.
You lose this?
Ah there's our snookums now.
You got your DP?
What? Oh yeah, the camera man? They gave me a list.
And you got Skye Davidson. Pretty big leagues for a first timer. Do you even like movies?
Not particularly. Weird, isn't it? God I'm rally up. Do you feel anything yet, Mac?
Kind of. Hey, look  John Seale, Oliver Stapelton, Darius Khonji  they're friends. And great DP's I could give them a call for you.
Thanks, Mac. And thanks for being so supportive about all this. I really love you, you know.
Hey, I'm happy for you, buddy. Anything I can do.
God, I really need to jump about a bit. How's your film going?
Well, you know...good days, bad days.
I meant Sally.
I meant Sally.
Oh. You're serious.
No. No. Let me tell you something. Directing's the best preparation possible for fatherhood. The sleep depravation alone.
Oh don't. Everyone says that.
We have a gift?
Thanks, I'll take that. Champagne?
Lovely.
I love gifts. What did you guys get us?
Nothing that can't be exchanged.
Oh. Well. Good.
Congratulations on the deal. How exciting. Is Sally doing Sally? I mean it's Sally. The character that's based on Sally. The character that's based on Sally in the book.
The novel. No, Skye Davidson is playing the lead.
Oh my God, I'm a huge Skye Davidson fan. She's very beautiful.
Yes, she is.
But I am right, yes? She's based on Sally.
It's a novel.
Still. Well. Let's drop it.
Yes.
I'm not much of a reader, but I do love autobiographies, even biographies sometimes. Mostly nonfiction. Did you read the new Styron?
No.
It's very good. I understand you won the Booker Prize.
Yes I did.
Is your script much like the novel? Jerry says it's very good. But you know, you read the novel, and then you see the movie  and most of the time you say, "what's this?" You know? I sometimes think we're better off not reading the novel at all. Because, we come with expectations... and of course, we know where we're going. Don't you find?
Don't I find what?
I don't know why Joe, we've known each other how long...
Not long.
Don't be silly.
Joking.
Yes I know. I started to say... I started to say Joe that 
Do I put you off?
You manage to throw me off balance. I adore you.
And I you.
But I'm always afraid I'll say something stupid.
Ah.
And so I always manage to, do you see? Like the book/script thing, do you see?
Mmm hmmm.
The infamous dog?
He's the best dog in the world. They're both coming tonight. Not my idea.
Ours.
It's Jerry's worst idea.
Panes! How are you?
Oh, you know, I am.
Has she called?
She'll never call again. She called last week to tell me she'll never call again. Where's Sally?
What's a sign for that?
Come on, Panes...
Coffee?
Sure.
I'll do it.
No luck.
Oh, well, we'll just have to try again. Sound like a plan?
Happy anniversary, baby.
Happy anniversary.
I love you. Most beautiful woman in the world.
Hardly...
Accept a compliment.
I think you're the most beautiful woman in the world.
What did you get me?
In the morning, after everyone's gone and there's just us.
Kiss the back of my knees.
Through the sweats or not?
Not.
What?
You didn't kiss anyone else's knees, did you?
No. Did you?
No. I missed that.
I missed all of you. We're okay, aren't we?
We're great.
I mean, you're really back.
For good.
Don't get it.
Well, it might be Clair. They're threatening not to come...
What?
They can't find a sitter... Hello? Excuse me? Yes, uh, hold on. Just a moment. It's Skye Davidson. She needs directions to the house. You invited Skye fucking Davidson to our anniversary party?
Okay. I'm sorry, look, I meant to tell you. It was the only chance I had to meet her.
You invited her to our anniversary party? I didn't even invite my mother.
She goes on location tomorrow. Sally, I'm sorry. Look, I can't keep her on hold.
No, no of course not. It's Skye fucking Davidson, for fuck's sake.
You want me to uninvite her?
No, no of course not. How old is she? Twentyfuckingtwo?
And she's a stinking fucking actress, for fuck's sake.
Skye! I'm so glad you're able to make it...it's our sixth, actually. You read the book again? Well, no, the ending to chapter six...it's just that it's not filmic. We tried it in an earlier draft, but, it just wasn't filmic... Well, sure, we can absolutely look at that again. If you're coming from Laurel, you want to take Sunset west, we're just past Will Rogers State Park. Three blocks west of that, you want to hang right. It's about three quarters of a mile up a big white thing on the left.
I'm looking forward to meeting you, too. And Skye, I'm thrilled that you're willing to take this leap with me. Eternally grateful, really.
I'm going to throw up.
I can't imagine anyone else playing Genna.
Really?
Promise you'll be nice to the neighbors.
I'll say as little as possible.
Of course we do. We have to sign our taxes.
You can never be too early or too thin.
Otis! No barking!
And Joe's huge in Europe. He's like a rock star in London. His novels sell millions.
In the kitchen.
Who'd like to go and find Otis?
Yes.
Okay. Last one to find Otis is a smelly old bum.
Well, not yet. The gate was open?
It's taken care of.
Two minutes.
It's alright. Be our guests.
Still champions.
Panes is not on your team anymore.
It's an unfair advantage.
You've got Cal. You've got Gina. You've got Skye? We're the leftovers.
Okay, knock it off.
Truce?
Truce.
Dinner. Don't be angry.
I'm not fucking angry, for God's sake.
Not properly watered.
Whatever! You know how he gets. Well, he went absolutely bonkers. Lucy and I were frantically trying to scramble into the dumb waiter and I didn't fit any more. It was almost fatal. And that, my dear friends, is the day...
Dolphins. Great.
It's ecstasy, Sal.
I think we should all take it tonight. Everyone's staying, stays. No driving. That's the rule. I love you SallyMae. You're going to have a fabulous time.
I'm worried about my spine. I'm very worried about my brain and my spine.
Someone left the goddamn gate open. Otis got out. Skye and I, well the... I came out of the house and the fucking gate was wide open.
Oh for fuck's sake. Nobody uses that gate.
Don't be so sure.
Listen to yourself... Don't worry, it's alright. We'll find him. What's wrong with you?
She left the fucking gate open.
Well he can't have gone far.
Can't have gone far? He's like a greyhound. He could be miles away.
He'll find his way back.
There are fucking coyotes out there.
Sally, calm down. We're not going to find him any quicker by you being hysterical.
Fuck you.
Or shitty!! Otis!!
Otis!!!!
Otis!!!!
Otis, good boy, come here. Oh my god, oh my god, oh my god.
This is a nightmare. We should have kept him upstairs.
It was done. When Sophia put the kids to bed, America brought Otis in the room and closed the door. It was done.
Well someone clearly let him out before Monica opened the gate.
Oh fuck you, and fuck Monica while you're at it. But I guess that's what I interrupted.
Jesus, Sally. You are a medical miracle. The only person who's ever taken ecstacy and become angrier.
Yeah, let's talk about that. You seem to be rather an expert. I don't remember in the last five months of counselling your ever mentioning ecstacy or going to rage parties.
Rave parties?! That's so typical  you would think it was called rage. Perfect!
What else don't I know about, Joe? Let's get really clear here.
Sally, so I took a few pills. I went out dancing. I tried to forget how upset I was about splitting up with you. I haven't lied to you. I told you about the people I've slept with. I just didn't mention the few occasions I took drugs because you're so fucking judgmental I knew I'd never hear the end of it, and you have so little faith and so little trust in me. Sally, we're back, I love you. Trust that. Please let's not do this.
Otis! Come! Good boy! Come!
Otis!
I'm not sure we understand that word in the same way.
Love?
You walked out on a five year marriage.
That hasn't the first fucking thing to do with love. It's whether we can live together... like this! All the time.
It's not like this all the time.
DO I want anyone else? No. Do I want to be with you for the rest of my natural life? I'm trying.
And how hard it hit?
Just stop right there, Sally. We've been through this.
You've been through it. That's how you love people. When it's easy for you, when it's convenient for you.
Sally, first of all, you're talking bullshit. And second...
You want to talk about bullshit? Lucy called you three times this week. She's a fucking mess, Joe. Your sister is a fucking mess. She needs you. I talk to her more than you do.
That is not true.
It is true. You know how you love, Joe? You dedicate a book to someone.
Every novel I've had published in every language I've dedicated to Lucy.
Right. And when was the last time you spoke to her?
And how fucking dare you cast Skye Davidson in that part? Have you any idea how humiliating that is for me? I'm an actress! It's about our marriage for fuck's sake. Everybody knows that...
It's a novel.
About me!
Who the fuck do you think you are? The part of Genna is not just about you. It's about every woman I've ever loved in my entire life. Including my mother. The character is also clearly in her early twenties, Sally.
What are you saying?
Hello? Last birthday was?
I don't look my age, Joe.
Sally, I have never considered you for this part because you are too old to play it. And you are out of touch with reality if you think differently.
It's a shit novel anyway.
Well there you go. I let you off the hook. You're one goddamn lucky actress.
Not really. I mean your books have always been pop, but this is the shallowest of the bunch. That's what all our friends think, anyway.
Okay. If we could've, by some miracle, stripped ten years off your face, still couldn't have got the thing made. Because I don't mean anything as a director, and your name doesn't mean fuck all anymore. And the people that can hire you are afraid to, because they think you're phoning it in. That you don't have... Oh Christ, Sally.
Who? Who? Who thinks that?
Your director and your costar of your current movie. Don't dish if you can't take it, Sally.
Mac? Mac says it? Cal?
Cal, too?
Sally, for Christ's sake.
Anyone else?
This is insanity. Sally...
Don't.
Don't push me away.
I had an abortion two weeks ago.
Don't do this.
I found out I was pregnant and it scared the shit out of me.
Don't do this!
I told you when we met I never wanted children. I don't want kids in my life. We talked about it. You weren't listening.
You changed your mind.
I wanted you back.
You think this was to hurt you?! My God, Joe. It isn't about you.
What?! You aborted our child?!
I'm a monster. Exactly.
You're not ready.
Don't make allowances. I'll never be ready. Some people just shouldn't have children. I'd be a terrible fucking mother, Joe. I did want it for us. But I couldn't do it. I don't really think I can do it.
I wasn't part of that picture at all, was I? I wasn't part of that decision. Did I occur to you at all? It's a fucking farce. It's a fucking farce. How long did you think you could keep it going. You're amazing. Do you have any idea what you've done to us?
Yes.
I'll never forgive you.
I know.
I have no idea who you are.
Alright, good. Thanks for your trouble. So will you leave Sally and me alone right now?
Everybody hates the messenger.
I can't got tonight. I don't want to be on a plane on my own tonight.
I'll be with you.
I don't want to go tonight.
You don't have to.
No.
Okay.
Pretty much a disaster, tonight, wasn't it?
I guess.
Life gets messy. Ugly messy. But I don't understand you. And I don't think I ever understood Lucy. I don't understand throwing it away. How do you throw all that away? Any of it. I want it all. You guys want guarantees? I want the possibilities. And all kinds of crap comes with that. A lot of bad shit. And I think that's okay with me because, because of the rest of the stuff. All the good shit. All the surprises. It's a fucking miracle when you come down to it. We'd have had amazing children, you and me. We'd have had a ride. You'd have surprised yourself. I'll never love anybody else, you know.
Me too.
That's under lock and key.
Me too.
Happy anniversary.
It's a Calder.
I know.
He's my favorite.
I know. It's for the baby's crib.
Ah...
They're the keys to your grandad's flat. Happy anniversary, baby.
Oh, Sally Mae...
I know.
Will you make love with me?
Sure.
We closed.
Fantastic. Out here.
Joe officially owns No. 4, Cheyenne Walk, Chelsea, London, England. No small doing.
I love you, you're a genius.
I suppose. Sally, that's quite a gift. I'm not sure it's in your best interest.
I adore him.
The realtor'll be here tomorrow in the morning. The house had to go on the market to insure the loan on the London flat.
I know. I know that. Don't spoil it.
What you earn has to double in order to cover expenses in London, it's an outrageously expensive city.
We've only been over this how many times?
You only made half your quote this year.
Well, you're a tower of support.
I worry because you don't. It's my job. I'm feeling guilty. I would've liked it if you waited until the two of you were on more solid ground.
We couldn't be on more solid ground.
Whatever you say. Listen, I love you.
Not millions.
He's directing now.
They're paying him scale.
He gets huge advances on his novels. He's going back to that. You know how he hates it here.
There's still time to undo this.
We'll be fine.
Did you invite them?
The Roses? And of course they said yes.
That was the plan. And you're thrilled to have them.
Whatever you say.
Did you tell Joe to behave?
Yes.
Did he promise?
Scout's honor.
Before I forget. Put it on the bookshelf.
You're out of your mind.
Just do what I say, alright?
How much bowing and scraping do you want us to do?
Beats a lawsuit.
Take your time, Jer.
I'm ready.
What was it? What the fuck was it?
Ryan's novel.
Ryan's novel?
Go.
Hey! Would you?
It was fifteen seconds.
I don't think so.
Are you always this much fun?
He's okay, Clair. You wanna give him a little room?
Man, I must really be stoned. Thanks, buddy.
I'm fine, babe.
Give him a minute, Clair.
Hey. Thanks, buddy.
Anytime, sport.
Yeah, thanks pal.
I'm fine, babe. I'm gonna take a little walk. I need a minute. Let's forget it. My life didn't pass in front of my eyes. So, it probably wasn't that close.
Probably not.
So, you've got lifeguard papers, or what?
I know we're early, we're so early. Sorry.
You have to sign your taxes anyway.
Cal, my wife Judy.
Nice to meet you.
Time. Hey! Time. Judy! Time you guys. Hey!!
Ya Vhol. What are you, a fucking Nazi?
Well it's fucking time.
There's a test, you know.
Forget it, Judy.
Are you my big brave boy? Are you my brave hero?
You're crazy baby. I love you.
Are you my big hard hero?
Do you want me to save you? Do you want me to save you?
Oh yeah...
Oh yeah... I'm gonna save you.
Oh yeah?
Let me heal you, baby.
Oh Jesus oh Jesus oh Jesus.
I call that a perfect day.
A perfect night.
Damn near. And a damn near perfect drug.
Hm. We should do it again.
Just every once in a blue moon, you know.
Hm. You think we should ask them for their landscaper?
Hm. Do you like fucking out of doors?
Not as a rule.
They didn't sign their goddamn tax returns!
Let me. I'm Jeffrey.
Monica.
And you know our friends, how?
We live next door.
Oh. You're them.
Excuse me?
We've heard lots about you.
You have?
I'm the hired help.
Fuck you.
I never put myself in harm's way.
Anymore.
No, not anymore. Happy anniversary, scout.
That for us?
What a nose. You missed your calling.
Can I open it?
Sally?
Please?
Directing suits you.
I'm not so sure. Look again in three months.
It must be nice having so many strangers kiss your ass all of a sudden.
Ow! Gina, you obviously need to get fucked.
Just did. Jealous?
When does he graduate high school?
Oh, very jealous.
I saw Lucy when I was in London, she seems okay. It's hard to tell with her.
Shit, I forgot to call her back. She's off on a trip somewhere. Oh God, my grandad's flat in London's been sold.
In Cheyene Walk? Lucy's going to have a meltdown. Oh, I'm so sorry.
I should have damn well bought it. Well, we can't afford it. The movie's going to eat up a year of my life and I'm getting paid next to nothing. Do you know how much Skye Davidson's getting? Four million.
Yeah, but I hear she gives a mean blow job.
You really need to be fucked.
Escape hatch.
Escape hatch. And Dad was having a go about the garden. Something was misplanted...
So?
I love you, Joe Therrian.
What is it?
Let's go upstairs, okay?
The suspense is killing me.
Harry called.
And?
Lucy overdosed.
But she's alright.
She's in ICU.
Stupid tart.
She left a note.
Fuck you.
You need to call your dad.
Leave us alone right now.
I've booked you a flight and packed you a bag. You just need to get into a car and go.
Thanks for coming.
Happy anniversary. You're a good match, you two. Can you help me with this stuff?
Would you leave us alone right now?
I love her too, Joe.
He's gonna miss his flight.
Yeah.
Is he not going? I booked a flight.
He's not going tonight.
I told his father he'd be on that flight.
Well you could tell him otherwise. It was good of you to be all this help. But he doesn't want to go tonight.
Jesus, Sally. I'm not the enemy.
And you're not the wife.
It's not a contest.
Damn straight.
Take good care of it.
Count on it.
You look so well, Clair. A wraith.
You think so!? I've been working out a lot since the baby. And I've been working. And that takes it's toll, you know.
I'm glad that's all over for me.
Don't you miss it?
Never.
Really.
Not for a second. Cal can have all that.
Really?
So where is young Jonah?
With a sitter. We have a sensational sitter. Jonah's really comfortable with her. You know, a second mom sort of. Like part of the family. Amazing with kids.
What is that thing?
So this sitter can always reach me. I'm still not used to leaving him.
You should have brought him.
Dander. He's allergic. Otis.
Oh. Do you have any pictures?
Pictures. They're always in my tote. I left my tote in the damn trailer. But! He's Mac all over again. Imagine Mac shrunk to twoandahalf feet. The fact is they probably didn't even need me for this birth.
Are you the funniest person I know, or what?
I can't think how you gave it all up, Soph.
Let's get the kids.
Oh my God, the sitter.
What a fucking day! We only just got a sitter. I don't know her from fucking Adam. She could be a serial killer. I'm going to have to call every ten minutes. You have to let me give out the number.
Of course.
I'm not.
This is Monica and Ryan. Mac and Clair.
Why didn't you bring him?
What?
Why didn't you bring him?
He's allergic.
Oh.
To dander. Otis.
Oh.
Didn't I say?
Well, probably.
They can tell from the eyelashes, you know? He's got eyelashes yay long. They must be a foot long. The older you are when you have a baby, the more likely this stuff is to crop up.
Oh.
It sounds hysterical, but Otis just rubbed up against me and I'd kind of like to change into something of yours. You know it could be disaster. He's so allergic. It's terrifying.
Borrow whatever you like.
I'll change back before we leave.
Whatever you like. I'm afraid it'll all be too big for you. Are you alright, Clair?
I'm fine. I'm fine. Well, I'm a little stressed. And I've been taking pills to get my weight down since the baby.
I'd say it was down.
And the doctor said they might make me a little jumpy. I've got a ghastly headache, actually.
You want a Tylenol, or something?
I'd love a Xanex. Sally, please don't tell Sophia that I'm not breast feeding.
Why would she care?
You know Sophia. She's so damned judgemental. And she's so damned... perfect. And so fucking... serene. Just fucking don't tell her. Because you know Mac thinks she's God. And I can feel him comparing.
You need to knock off the pills, Clair.
Just don't fucking tell her.
It's not going to come up.
Thank you, thank you, thank you.
My God, your wardrobe is incredible. It took me forever to decide. Oh, and I found Dr. X, thank you. You saved my life.
She already has.
It's alright, isn't it?
So they tell me. Not soon enough, of course. How are you, Sal? You look fantastic. It changes your life, you know. A baby. It puts everything in perspective, doesn't it. Doesn't it, Mac? You can't be the center of your own world, anymore.
It's an object lesson in grace. Wow! Look who's here before me! My leading man is on time for once.
Mac? Oh there you are. What are you doing, honey? No more work. Don't you feel breezy.
I'm in mourning.
You can cut around it, whatever it is. You always do.
Not this time.
It's always not this time. If you can do it around me, you can do it around anyone.
You don't have any clothes on.
How nice for everybody. Come swimming. The water's glorious. You'll fix it. You'll come up with one of your brilliant ideas.
Or I won't. I can't help her. I'm out of my depth.
Things always look much worse in the morning.
I don't know how to make her funny.
You're coming swimming in the pool, and in a few minutes you won't even remember what it's about. You won't care who's in your damn movie.
What what's about?
I...wait, what are you talking about?
Honey?
I'll be fine. Really babe. Give me a minute.
Jack. Did you compose that yourself?
Absolutely.
Had a little help?
Absolutely not.
It has your ring.
I'm not that good.
What's that?
The neighbors from hell. The kind that lay in wait. I'd rather move actually. Wouldn't I? Wouldn't I?
Can we... one at a time? Hold it down, and one at a time. You're last, Cal.
Why last?
It's going. It's going.
And how's the diva doing?
Isn't Skye amazing?
She's got great tits.
She's a constant surprise.
And you've only just met.
Yeah, I know... But she's only twenty seven and... The wisdom. She's an old soul. She knew that Shostakovich thing. Did you notice?
Absolutely. And she's got great tits.
Yeah, God she really does have great tits, great tits. i can't wait to work with her.
The camera loves her. A great actress.
With great tits. I'm going to ask her if I can touch them.
Poor Mac. It's been a bit of a struggle. I'm sure Sally's told you.
No, what?
The movie.
Oh, she's really enjoying it. I think. Is Mac okay?
I don't know what's going on. I don't care to guess. Mac's really unhappy. She isn't there, that's all. She's no idea what she's playing, not a clue.
Who, Sally?
And, you know it isn't rocket science, this script. She can barely get the lines out. There was a scene last week  she sobbed, through every take. I know crying's easy for her but it's a fucking comedy, Joe. Something's gone. You know, that thing that was Sally  that always surprised you. It's gone. I think she's scared. And that's death.
I still think she sails above the rest. I mean not like her early films. But those were all such great directors.
Mac's a pretty great director, Joe. He's a woman's director. And nothing's happening. Course he won't fire her, because of the friendship... But it was discussed. He had to battle his studio to get her in the first place.
What?
Hey, listen, I love her. She's Sophia's best friend. I never said any of this, alright. I'll deny it on the stand... You guys are gonna have kids. That is so great. Maybe that's what this is all about. Maybe she doesn't want to do this anymore. You know adults don't do this for a living. You guys are gonna have your kids, you'll be directing  one asshole in the family is enough. Sophia knew that intuitively. Look at Clair. Clair's a mess. Make sure she gets the epidural. Forget that natural childbirth shit. Everything's going to be what it's supposed to be. "Life is but a walking shadow. A poor player who struts and frets his hour upon the stage and then is heard no more..." And speaking of me, the role of Leo in your film?
Leo?
Any thoughts on casting yet?
Leo? It was out to Jude Law. Jude passed.
Well, I can't make any promises, and of course I haven't read the script but I loved the novel...when are you shooting?
Octoberish.
I have a small window of time.
Leo. Leo's twentyeight, Cal.
Scratch the two, write in a four.
Scratch the two, write in a four.
You've got a lot of fucking gall. Thirty nine.
Five years ago, I was at the party, remember?
So who won?
A triumph. When did you get here?
Ten, fifteen minutes ago.
Why didn't you come in?
I hate the sight of blood. You guys don't take prisoners.
You're not upset that I brought the dog?
Would it make a difference?
Anouk isn't like a dog, really. More like a small person. So is there anyone here for me? No one looks new. Who's that?
You don't want that. It's married and it's the neighbor.
Oh I think he's cute. How's the marriage part working out?
You're fucking desperate.
Like you didn't know. Who invited the bimbo?
One guess.
How long have you worked for the Therrians?
A long time.
So you were here when they were doing the work on the boundary fence?
Oh yes.
Did you know the contractor?
Very well.
Was it a contractor?
It's the way they do things.
To code?
Did you see permits? Did he have a license?
You should talk to Mr. Joe.
Tessie, they say you were the sister with personality.
I was a great beauty.
Uh, how did this personality come about?
I was very charming.
There were many men interested in you?
Oh, I was quite a lively dancer.
Oh.
Hi, I'mI'm Tony Lacey.
Well, hi!
Uh, we just wanted to stop by and say that we really enjoyed your sets.
Oh, yeah, really, oh!
I though it was... very musical, and I liked it a lot.
Oh, neat... oh, that's very nice, gosh, thanks a lot.
Are you... are you recording? Or do Are you with any label now?
No, no, no, not at all.
Uh, well, I'd like to talk to you about that sometime, if you get a chance.
Oh. What about?
...of possibly working together.
Well, hey, that's, that's nice. Uh. Oh, listen, this is, uh, Alvy Singer. Do you know Alvy? Uh... and... uh... Tony Lacey.
No, I don'tI don't know, but II know your work. I'm a big fan of yours.
Uh... wwe're going back to the Pierre. We're staying at the Pierre... and we're gonna meet Jack and Angelica, and have a drink there, and... if you'd like to come, uh, we'd love to have you.
Yeah.
And we could just sit and talk... nothing. Uh, not a big deal, it's just relax, just be very mellow.
Oh, well, Iif it's inconvenient, eh, we can't do it now... that's fine, too. Wwwwe'll do it another time.
Hey
Maybe if you're on the Coast, we'll get together and... and we'll meet there.
Oh.
It was a wonderful set.
Oh, gosh.
I really enjoyed it. Nice to have metcha. Good night.
We just need about six weeks, in about six weeks we could cut a whole album.
I don't know, this is strange to me, you know.
Just... that's all you need. You can come and stay here.
Oh.
There's a whole wing in this house.
Oh yeah, stay here? Uhuh.
You can have it to use. Whywhy are you smiling?
I don't know. I don't know.
Yeah.
Well, I used to live there. I used to live there for years. You know, but it's gottenit's so dirty now.
Yeah.
Oh, and there's another thing about New York. See... youyou wanna see a movie, you have to stand in a long line.
Yeah.
It could be freezing, it could be raining.
Yeah.
And here, you just
We went over to the swap meet. Annie, Gram and I. Got some nice picture frames.
We really had a good time.
Oh, that Randolph Hunt. You remember Randy Hunt, Annie. He was in the choir with you.
Oh, yes, yes.
Oh, yes, that's right. Did you see the new play?
Oh, you remember her, Annie.
Yes, I do.
Now, don't let it be so long, now.
No.
Oh, he's adorable, Annie.
You think so? Do you really?
We're going to take them to the airport.
M'mmm.
I just have time to get the, uh
That was fun. I don't think California is bad at all. It's a drag coming home.
Lotta beautiful women. It was fun to flirt.
I have to face facts. II adore Alvy, but our relationship doesn't seem to work anymore.
I'll have the usual trouble with Annie in bed tonight. Whatta I need this?
If only I had the nerve to break up, but it would really hurt him.
If only I didn't feel guilty asking Annie to move out. It'd probably wreck her. But I should be honest.
Dennisright, uh, uh... local kid probably, would meetcha in front of the movie house on Saturday night.
Oh, God, you should've seen what I looked like then.
Oh, I can imagine. Ppprobably the wife of an astronaut.
Then there was Jerry, the actor.
Look at you, youyou're such a clown.
I look pretty.
Well, yeah, you always look pretty, but that guy with you...
Heavy! Eaten by some squirrels.
Hey, listenI mean, he was a terrific actor, and look at him, he's neat looking and he was emotional... Y hey, I don't think you like emotion too much.
Let 'im drop dead! Who needs his business?!
His wife has diabetes!
Didiabetes? Is that any excuse? Diabetes?
You fired the cleaning woman?
She was stealing.
But she's colored.
SO?
So the colored have enough trouble.
She was going through my pocketbook!
They're persecuted enough!
Who's persecuting? She stole!
All rightso we can afford it.
How can we afford it? On your pay? What if she steals more?
She's a colored woman, from Harlem!
I distinctly heard it. He muttered under his breath, "Jew."
You're crazy!
No, I'm not. We were walking off the tennis court, and you know, he was there and me and his wife, and he looked at her and then they both looked at me, and under his breath he said, "Jew."
Alvy, you're a total paranoid.
Wh How am I a paran? Well, I pick up on those kind o' things. You know, I was having lunch with some guys from NBC, so I said... uh, "Did you eat yet or what?" and Tom Christie said, "No, didchoo?" Not, did you, didchoo eat? Jew? No, not did you eat, but Jew eat? Jew. You get it? Jew eat?
Ah, Max, you, uh...
Stop calling me Max.
Why, Max? It's a good name for you. Max, you see conspiracies in everything.
No, I don't! You know, I was in a record store. Listen to this so I know there's this big tall blond crewcutted guy and he's lookin' at me in a funny way and smiling and he's saying, "Yes, we have a sale this week on Wagner." Wagner, Max, Wagner so I know what he's really tryin' to tell me very significantly Wagner.
Right, Max. California, Max.
Ah.
Let's get the hell outta this crazy city.
Forget it, Max.
We move to sunny L.A. All of show business is out there, Max.
No, I cannot. You keep bringing it up, but I don't wanna live in a city where the only cultural advantage is that you can make a right turn on a red light.
Right, Max, forget it. Aren't you gonna be late for meeting Annie?
I'm gonna meet her in front of the Beekman. I think I have a few minutes left. Right?
Max, my serve is gonna send yuh to the showers
Right, right, so gget back to what we were discussing, the failure of the country to get behind New York City isis antiSemitism.
Max, the city is terribly worried.
But the I'm not discussing politics or economics. This is foreskin.
No, no, no, Max, that's a very convenient out. Every time some group disagrees with you it's because of antiSemitism.
Don't you see? The rest of the country looks upon New York like we'rewe're leftwing Communist, Jewish, homosexual, pornographers. I think of us that way, sometimes, and II live here.
Max, if we lived in California, we could play outdoors every day, in the sun.
Sun is bad for yuh. Everything our parents said was good is bad. Sun, milk, red meat, college...
Yeah, watch the road!
You'll total the whole car.
Yeah, the neighborhood's gonna be great.
We can show her the schoolyard.
Right. I was a great athlete. Tell her, Max, I was the best, I was all schoolyard.
Yes, I remember. He was all schoolyard. They threw him a football once, he tried to dribble it.
Yeah, well, I used to lose my glasses a lot.
I have some very good memories there.
What kind of good memories, Max? Your mother and father fighting all the time.
Yeah, and always over the most ridiculous things.
Rightwell, Santa Claus will have sunstroke.
Max, there's no crime, there's no mugging.
There's no economic crime, you know, but there'sthere's ritual, religious cult murders, you know, there's wheat germ killers out here.
While you're out here, Max, I want you to see some of my TV show. And we're invited to a big Christmas party.
Oh.
Look, now, Charlie, give me a big laugh here.
Do you realize how immoral this all is?
Max, I've got a hit series.
Yeah, I know; but you're adding fake laughs.
Give me a tremendous laugh here, Charlie.
Look, uh...
We do the show live in front of an audience.
Great, but nobody laughs at it 'cause your jokes aren't funny.
Yeah, well, that's why this machine is dynamite.
What's the matter?
I don't know, I just gotI got very dizzy... I feel dizzy, Max.
Well, sit down.
Oh, Jesus.
You all right?
I don't know, I mean, I
You wanna lie down?
No, nomy, you know, my stomach felt queasy all morning. I just started getting...
How about a ginger ale?
Oh, Max... no, I maybe I better lie down.
You like this house, Max?
M'hm.
I even brought a road map to get us to the bathroom.
Whee, you shoulda told me it was Tony Lacey's party.
What difference does that make?
I think he has a little thing for Annie.
Oh, no, no, that's bullshit, Max. He goes with that girl over there.
Where?
The one with the V.P.L.
V.P.L.?
Visible panty line. Max, she is gorgeous.
Yeah, she's a ten, Max, and that's great for you because you'reyou're used to twos, aren't you?
There are no twos, Max.
Yeah, you're used to the kind with the with the shopping bags walking through Central Park with the surgical masks on muttering.
M'hm.
And... uh
How do you like this couple, Max?
And I think they just came back from Masters and Johnson.
Yeah, intensive care ward. My Godhey, Max, I think she's... I think she's giving me the eye.
If she comes over here, Max, my brain is going to turn into guacamole.
I'll handle it. I'll handle it. Hi.
Oh, hehe didn't say anything.
No, no, I came out here to get some shock therapy, but there was an energy crisis, so I... He's mymy food taster. Have you two met?
Hi. How do you do.
Hey, you guys are wearin' white. It must be in the stars.
Yeah. Right.
Uri Geller must be on the premises someplace.
We're gonna operate together.
Imagine my surprise when I got your call, Max.
Yeah. I had the feeling that I got you at a bad moment. You know, I heard highpitched squealing.
Twins, Max. Sixteenyearolds. Can you imagine the mathematical possibilities?
You're an actor, Max. You should be doing Shakespeare in the Park.
Oh, I did Shakespeare in the Park, Max. I got mugged. I was playing Richard the Second and two guys with leather jackets stole my leotard.
Max, are we driving through plutonium?
Keeps out the alpha rays, Max. You don't get old.
Officer, I know what you're gonna say. I'mI'm not a great driver, you know, II have some problems with withwith
May I see your license, please?
Sure. just don'tdon't get angry, you know what I mean? 'Cause II have  I have mymy license here. You know, it's a rented car. And I've...
Don't give me your life story just pick up the license.
Pick up the license. You have to ask nicely 'cause I've had an extremely rough day. You know, my girl friend
Just give me the license, please.
Since you put it that way. It's hard for me to refuse. ...have a, I have a terrific problem with authority, you know. I'm... it's not your fault. Don't take it personal.
What are you making such a big deal about? They're only lobsters. Look, you're a grown man, you know how to pick up a lobster.
I'm not myself since I stopped smoking.
Oh, when'd you quit smoking?
Sixteen years ago.
Whatta you mean?
Mean?
You stopped smoking sixteen years ago, is that what you said? Oh, II don't understand. Are you joking, or what?
Thank you very much. It's a pleasure.
This is, uh, Shawn, and, uh... Bob and Petronia.
This is a great house, really. Everything. Saunas, Jacuzzis, three tennis courts. You know who the original owners were? Nelson Eddy, then Legs Diamond. Then you know who lived here?
Trigger.
Charlie Chaplin.
Hey.
Right before his unAmerican thing.
Uh, you guys are stilluh, you're still New Yorkers.
Yeah, I love it there.
You know, it must need to have had its leading from one thought to another. You know what I'm talking about?
He's screaming his opinions in my ear.
Like all that Juliet of the Spirits or Satyricon, I found it incredibly... indulgent. You know, he really is. He's one of the most indulgent film makers. He really is
Key word here is "indulgent."
without getting... well, let's put it this way...
What are you depressed about?
It's like Samuel Beckett, you know I admire the technique but he doesn't... he doesn't hit me on a gut level.
I'd like to hit this guy on a gut level.
Probably on their first date, right?
It's a narrow view.
Probably met by answering an ad in the New York Review of Books. "Thirtyish academic wishes to meet woman who's interested in Mozart, James Joyce and sodomy." Whatta you mean, our sexual problem?
I never read that. That wasthat was Henry James, right? Novel, uh, the sequel to Turn of the Screw? My Sexual...
It's the influence of television. Yeah, now Marshall McLuhan deals with it in terms of it being aa high, uh, high intensity, you understand? A hot medium... as opposed to a...
What I wouldn't give for a large sock o' horse manure.
...as opposed to a print...
Wait a minute, why can't I give my opinion? It's a free country!
I mean, d He can give you Do you hafta give it so loud? I mean, aren't you ashamed to pontificate like that? And and the funny part of it is, M Marshall McLuhan, you don't know anything about Marshall McLuhan's... work!
Wait a minute! Really? Really? I happen to teach a class at Columbia called "TV Media and Culture"! So I think that my insights into Mr. McLuhan well, have a great deal of validity.
Oh, do yuh?
Yes.
Well, that's funny, because I happen to have Mr. McLuhan right here. So... so, here, just let me I mean, all right. Come over here... a second.
Oh.
Tell him.
Man, that's great. That's just great.
You catch Dylan?
Me? No, no. II couldn't make it that ni Mymy raccoon had hepatitis.
You have a raccoon?
Tsch, a few.
The only word for this is trans plendid. It's transplendid.
I can think of another word.
He's God! I mean, this man is God! He's got millions of followers who would crawl all the way across the world just to touch the hem of his garment.
Really? It must be a tremendous hem.
I'm a Rosicrucian myself.
Are you?
Yeah.
I can't get with any religion that advertises in Popular Mechanics. Look there's God coming outta the men's room.
It's unbelievably transplendid! I was at the Stones concert in Altamount when they killed that guy, remember?
Yeah, were yuh? I wasI was at an Alice Cooper thing where six people were rushed to the hospital with bad vibes.
I hope you don't mind that I took so long to finish.
Oh, no, no, don't be... tsch... don't be silly. You know, I'm startin' itI'm startin' to get some feeling back in my jaw now.
Oh, sex with you is really a kafkaesque experience.
Oh, tsch, thank you. H'm.
I mean that as a compliment.
I thinkI think there's too much burden placed on the orgasm, you know, to make up for empty areas in life.
Who said that?
Uh, oh, I don't know. It might have been Leopold and Loeb. Hello. Oh, hi... Uh, no, whatwhat's the matter? Whatwhatwhat? You sound terrible... No, what Sure I Whatta yuh what kind of an emergency?... No, well, stay there. Stay there, I'll come over right now. I'll come over right now. Just stay there, I'll come right over.
Yeah, two more chairs and they got a diningroom set.
Why are you so hostile?
'Cause I wanna watch the Knicks on television.
Is that Paul Goodman? No. And be nice to the host because he's publishing my book. Hi, Doug! Douglas Wyatt. "A FoulRagandBone Shopof theHeart."
I'm so tired of spending evenings making fake insights with people who work for Dysentery.
Commentary.
Oh, really, I heard that Commentary and Dissent had merged and formed Dysentery.
No jokesthese are friends, okay?
Here you are. There's people out there.
Hey, you wouldn't believe this. Two minutes ago, the Knicks are ahead fourteen points, and now... they're ahead two points.
Alvy, what is so fascinating about a group of pituitary cases trying to stuff the ball through a hoop?
What's fascinating is that it's physical. You know, it's one thing about intellectuals, they prove that you can be absolutely brilliant and have no idea what's going on. But on the other hand... the body doesn't lie, asas we now know.
Alvy, don't! You're using sex to express hostility.
"Whywhy do you always rreduce my animal urges to psychoanalytic categories? he said as he removed her brassiere..."
There are people out there from The New Yorker magazine. My God! What would they think?
Oh, I'm sorry!
Don't get upset!
Dammit! I was so close.
Jesus, last night it was some guy honking his car horn. I mean, the city can't close down. You know, whatwhatta yuh gonna do, hhave 'em shut down the airport, too? No more flights so we can have sex?
I'm too tense. I need a Valium. My analyst says I should live in the country and not in New York.
Well, I can't li We can't have this discussion all the time. The country makes me nervous. There's... You got crickets and itit's quiet... there's no place to walk after dinner, and... uh, there's the screens with the dead moths behind them, and... uh, yuh got thethe Manson family possibly, yuh got Dick and Terry
Okay, okay, my analyst just thinks I'm too tense. Where's the goddamn Valium?
Hey, come on, it's quiet now. We can we can start again.
I can't.
What
My head is throbbing.
Oh, you got a headache!
I have a headache.
Bad?
Oswald and ghosts.
Jesus!
Where are you going?
Well, I'mI'm gonna take another in a series of cold showers.
What'd I do?
Step up here!
What'd I do?
You should be ashamed of yourself.
Why, I was just expressing a healthy sexual curiosity.
Sixyearold boys don't have girls on their minds.
I did.
Why couldn't you have been more like Donald? Now, there was a model boy!
Tell the folks where you are today, Donald.
Alvy.
Oh, hi, Duane, how's it goin'?
This is my room.
Oh, yeah? Terrific.
Can I confess something?
I tell you this because, as an artist, I think you'll understand. Sometimes when I'm driving... on the road at night... I see two headlights coming toward me. Fast. I have this sudden impulse to turn the wheel quickly, headon into the oncoming car. I can anticipate the explosion. The sound of shattering glass. The... flames rising out of the flowing gasoline.
Right. Tsch, well, I have toI have to go now, Duane, because II'm due back on the planet earth.
Iiiiit's all right, fellas. Jesus, what'd you do, come by way of the Panama Canal?
Alright, alright, I'm in a bad mood, okay?
Bad mood? I'm standing with the cast of "The Godfather."
You're gonna hafta learn to deal with it.
Deal! I'm dealing with two guys named Cheech!
Okay. Please, I have a headache, all right?
Hey, you are in a bad mood. Youyou you must be getting your period.
I'm not getting my period. Jesus, every time anything out of the ordinary happens, you think that I'm getting my period!
Two minutes, Alvy.
No, I'm sorry, I can't do it. We we've blown it already. Iyou know, uh, II can't go in in the middle.
In the middle? We'll only miss the titles. They're in Swedish.
You wanna get coffee for two hours or something? We'll go next
Two hours? No, uuh, I'm going in. I'm going in.
Look, while we're talking we could be inside, you know that?
Hey, can we not stand here and argue in front of everybody, 'cause I get embarrassed.
Alright. All right, all right, so whatta you wanna do?
I don't know now. Youyou wanna go to another movie? So let's go see The Sorrow and the Pity.
Oh, come on, we've seen it. I'm not in the mood to see a fourhour documentary on Nazis.
Well, I'm sorry, II can't... II I've gotta see a picture exactly from the start to the finish, 'cause 'cause I'm anal.
H'h, that's a polite word for what you are.
I'mI'mI'm gonna have a stroke.
Well, stop listening to him.
I missed my therapy. I overslept.
How can you possibly oversleep?
The alarm clock.
You know what a hostile gesture that is to me?
I know because of our sexual problem, right?
Hey, you... everybody in line at the New Yorker has to know our rate of intercourse?
Stop it, Alvy!
Well, he's spitting on my neck! You know, he's spitting on my neck when he talks.
Oh!
III mean, I'm comparatively normal for a guy raised in Brooklyn.
Okay, I'm very sorry. My sexual problem! Okay, my sexual problem! Huh?
Boy, those guys in the French Resistance were really brave, you know? Got to listen to Maurice Chevalier sing so much.
M'm, I don't know, sometimes I ask myself how I'd stand up under torture.
You? You kiddin'? If the Gestapo would take away your Bloomingdale's charge card, you'd tell 'em everything.
That movie makes me feel guilty.
Yeah, 'cause it's supposed to.
Alvy, I...
Whatwhatwhatwhat's the matter?
Iyou know, I don't wanna.
WhatwhatI don't... It's not natural! We're sleeping in a bed together. You know, it's been a long time.
I know, well, it's just that you know, I mean, IIII gotta sing tomorrow night, so I have to rest my voice.
It's always some kind of an excuse. It's You know, you used to think that I was very sexy. What... When we first started going out, we had sex constantly... We'rewe're probably listed in the Guinness Book of World Records.
I know. Well, Alvy, it'll pass, it'll pass, it's just that I'm going through a phase, that's all.
M'm.
I mean, you've been married before, you know how things can get. You were very hot for Allison at first.
Alvy, now don't panic. Please.
Look, I told you it was a... mistake to ever bring a live thing in the house.
Stop it! Don't... don't do that! There.
Well, maybe we should just call the police. Dial nineoneone, it's the lobster squad.
Come on, Alvy, they're only baby ones, for God's sake.
If they're only babies, then you pick 'em up.
Oh, all right. All right! It's all right. Here.
Don't give it to me. Don't!
Oooh! Here! Here!
Look! Look, one crawled behind the refrigerator. It'll turn up in our bed at night. Will you get outta here with that thing? Jesus!
Get him!
Talk to him. You speak shellfish! Hey, look... put it in the pot.
I can't! I can't put him in the pot. I can't put a live thing in hot water.
Gimme! Gimme! Let me do it! What what's he think we're gonna do, take him to the movies?
Oh, God! Here yuh go! Oh, good, now he'll think Aaaah! Okay.
Okay, it's in. It's definitely in the pot!
All right. All right. All right.
Annie, there's a big lobster behind the refrigerator. I can't get it out. This thing's heavy. Maybe if I put a little dish of butter sauce here with a nutcracker, it will run out the other side, you know what I mean?
Yeah. I'm gonna get my... I'm gonna get my camera.
You know, II think... if I could pry this door off... We shoulda gotten steaks 'cause they don't have legs. They don't run around.
Great! Great! Goddammit! Ooooh! These are... ppppick this lobster up. Hold it, please!
All right! All right! All right! All right! Whatta yuh mean? Are yuh gonna take pictures now?
It'll make great Alvy, be Alvy, it'll be wonderful... Ooooh, lovely!
All right, here! Oh, God, it's disgusting!
So, sowell, here's what I wanna know. Wwhat... Am I your first big romance?
Oh... no, no, no, no, uh, uh. No.
Well, then, wwho was?
Oh, well, let's see, there was Dennis, from Chippewa Falls High School.
Oh, come onI mean, I was still younger.
Hey, that was last year.
He was creepy.
Yeah, II think you're pretty lucky I came along.
Oh, really? Well, ladeda!
Ladeda. If Iif anyone had ever told me that I would be taking out a girl who used expressions like "la deda"...
Oh, that's right. That you really like those New York girls.
Well, no... not just, not only.
Oh, I'd say so. You married
Hi. Hi, hi.
Hi. Oh, hi. Hi.
Well, bye. She laughs and backs up slowly toward the door.
Youyou play... very well.
Oh, yeah? So do you. Oh, God, whatta whatta dumb thing to say, right? I mean, you say it, "You play well," and right away... I have to say well. Oh, oh... God, Annie. Well... oh, well... ladeda, lade da, lala.
Uh... youyou wanna lift?
Oh, whyuh... yyyou gotta car?
No, um... I was gonna take a cab.
Oh, no, I have a car.
You have a car? So... I don't understand why... if you have a car, so thenthen whwhy did you say "Do you have a car?"... like you wanted a lift?
I don't... I don't... Geez, I don't know, I've... I wa This... yeah, I got this VW out there... What a jerk, yeah. Would you like a lift?
Sure. Wwwwhich way yuh goin'?
Me? Oh, downtown!
Down I'mI'm goin' uptown.
Oh, well, I'm goin' uptown, too.
Uh, well, you just said you were going downtown.
Yeah, well, I'm, but I...
So sorry.
I mean, I can go uptown, too. I live uptown, but... uh, what the hell, I mean, it'd be nice having company, you know I mean, I hate driving alone.
Yeah.
So, how long do you know Janet? Where do you know her from?
Oh, I'm in her acting class.
Oh  you're an actress.
Well, I do commercials, sort of...
I, uh... well, you're not from New York, right?
No, Chippewa Falls.
Right! Where?
Wisconsin.
Uh, you're driving a
Uh, don't worry, I'm a very a very good driver. So, listenhey, you want some gum, anyway?
No, no thanks. Hey, don't
Well, where is it? I
No, no, no, no, you just... just watch the road. I'll get it
Okay.
For yuh.
Okay, that's good.
All right.
I'll getcha a piece.
Yeah... so, listenyou drive?
Do I drive? Uh, no, I gottaI gotta problem with driving.
Oh, you do?
Yeah. I got, uh, I got a license but I have too much hostility.
Oh, right.
Nice car.
Huh?
You keep it nice. Can I ask you, is thisis this a sandwich?
Huh? Oh, yeah.
That's okay, you... wewe can walk to the curb from here.
Don't be funny.
You want your tennis stuff?
Huh? Oh... yeah.
You want your gear? Here you go.
Yeah, thanks. Thanks a lot. Well...
Well, thanks, thank you. Youyou're a wonderful tennis player.
Oh.
You're the worst driver I've ever seen in my life... that's including any place... the worst... Europe, United... any place... Asia.
Yeah.
And I love what you're wearin'.
Who? Grammy? Grammy Hall?
Yeah, my grammy.
You're jo Whatta yuh kid What did you do, grow up in a Norman Rockwell painting?
Yeah, I know.
Your grammy!
I know, it's pretty silly, isn't it?
Jesus, mymy grammy... nnever gave gifts, you know. Sheshe was too busy getting raped by Cossacks.
Well...
Well... thank you again.
Oh, yeah, yeah.
I'll see yuh.
Hey, well, listen... hey, you wanna come upstairs and, uh... and have a glass of wine and something? Aw, no, I mean... I mean, you don't have to, you're probably late and everything else ...
No, no, that'll be fine. I don't mind. Sure.
You sure?
No, I got time.
Okay.
Sure, I got... I got nothing, uh, nothing till my analyst's appointment.
Oh, you see an analyst?
Yyyeah, just for fifteen years.
Fifteen years?
Yeah, uh, I'm gonna give him one more year and then I'm goin' to Lourdes.
Fifteenaw, come on, you're... yeah, really?
Sylvia Plath.
M'hm...
Interesting poetess whose tragic suicide was misinterpreted as romantic, by the collegegirl mentality.
Oh, yeah.
Oh, sorry.
Right. Well, I don't know, I mean, uh, some of her poems seem  neat, you know.
Neat?
Neat, yeah.
Uh, I hate to tell yuh, this is nineteen seventyfive, you know that "neat" went out, I would say, at the turn of the century. Whowho arewho are those photos on the wall?
Oh... oh, well, you see now now, uh, that's my dad, that's Fatherand that's my... brother, Duane.
Duane?
Yeah, right, Duaneand over there is Grammy Hall, and that's Sadie.
Well, who's Sadie?
Sadie? Oh, well, Sadie... Sadie met Grammy through, uh, through Grammy's brother George. Uh, George was real sweet, you know, he had that thing. What is that thing where you, uh, where you, uh, fall asleep in the middle of a sentence, you knowwhat is it? Uh...
Uh, narcolepsy.
Narcolepsy, right, right. Right. So, anyway, so... George, uh, went to the union, see, to get his free turkey, bebecause, uh, the union always gave George this big turkey at Christmas time because he was... shellshocked, you know what I mean, in the First World War. Anyway, so, so... George is standing in line, oh, just a sec... uh, getting his free turkey, but the thing is, he falls asleep and he never wakes up. So, so... so, he's dead ... he's dead. Yeah. Oh, dear. Well, terrible, huh, wouldn't you say? I mean, that's pretty unfortunate.
Yeah, it's a great story, though, I mean, I... I... it really made my day. Hey, I think I should get outta here, you know, 'cause I think I'm imposing, you know...
Oh, really? Oh, well... uh, uh, maybe, uh, maybe, we, uh...
...and... uh, yeah, uh... uh, you know, III...
Well, I mean, you don't have to, you know.
No, I know, but... but, you know, I'm all perspired and everything.
Well, didn't you take, uh... uh, a shower at the club?
Me? No, no, no, 'cause I never shower in a public place.
Why not?
'Cause I don't like to get naked in front of another man, you knowit's, uh...
Oh, I see, I see.
You know, I don't like to show my body to a man of my gender
Yeah. Oh, yeah. Yeah, I see. I guess
'cause, uh, you never know what's gonna happen.
Fifteen years, huh?
Fifteen years, yeah.
Yeah. Oh, God bless!
God bless.
Well, uh... You're what Grammy Hall would call a real Jew.
Oh, thank you.
Yeah, well... you She hates Jews. She thinks that they just make money, but let me tell yuh, I mean, she's the one yeah, is she ever. I'm tellin' yuh.
So, did you do shoot the photographs in there or what?
Yeah, yeah, I sorta dabble around, you know.
Well, I don't know. I mean, I guess I guess you must be sorta late, huh?
You know, I gotta get there and begin whining soon... otherwise I Hey... well, are you busy Friday night?
Me? Oh, uh. No.
Oh, I'm sorry, wait a minute, I have something. Well, what about Saturday night?
Oh... nothing. Notno, no!
Oh, you... you're very popular, I can see.
I know.
Gee, boy, what do you have? You have plague?
Well, I mean, I meet a lot of... jerks, you know
Yeah, I meet a lotta jerks, too.
what I mean?
think that's, uh
But I'm thinking about getting some cats, you know, and then they... Oh, wait a secondoh, no, no, I mean oh, shoot! No, Saturday night I'm gonna gonna sing. Yeah.
You're gonna sing? Do you sing? Well, no, it isn't No kidding? this is my first time. Oh, really? Where? I'd like to come. Oh, no, no, no, no, no! No, I'm interested!
Oh, noI mean, I'm just aauditioning sort of at club. I don't
No, so help me.
it's my first time.
That's okay, 'cause I know exactly what that's like. Listen
Yeah.
you're gonna like night clubs, they're really a lotta fun.
I was awful. I'm so ashamed! I can't sing.
Oh, listen, so the audience was a tad restless.
Whatta you mean, a tad restless? Oh, my God, I mean, they hated me.
No, they didn't. You have a wonderful voice.
No, I'm gonna quit!
No, I'm not gonna letcha. You have a great voice.
Really, do you think so, really?
Yeah!
Yeah?
It's terrific.
Yeah, you know something? I never even took a lesson, either.
Hey, listen, listen.
What?
Gimme a kiss.
Really?
Yeah, why not, because we're just gonna go home later, right?
Yeah.
Andand uh, there's gonna be all that tension. You know, we never kissed before and I'll never know when to make the right move or anything. So we'll kiss now we'll get it over with and then we'll go eat. Okay?
Oh, all right.
And we'll digest our food better.
Okay.
Okay?
Yeah.
We can digest our
Okay. Yeah.
I'm gonna have a corned beef.
Yeah... oh, uh, and I'm gonna have a pastrami on white bread with, uh, mayonnaise and tomatoes and lettuce. Tsch, so, uh, your second wife left you and, uh, were you depressed about that?
Nothing that a few megavitamins couldn't cure.
Oh. And your first wife was Allison?
My first... Yes, she was nice, but you know, uh, it was my fault. I was just... I was too crazy.
Oh.
M'm, that was so nice. That was nice.
As Balzac said...
H'm?
"There goes another novel." Jesus, you were great.
Oh, yeah?
Yeah.
Yeah?
Yeah, I'mI'mI'm a wreck.
No. You're a wreck.
Really. I mean it. II'll never play the piano again.
You're really nuts. I don't know, you really thought it was good? Tell me.
Good? I was
No.
No, that was the most fun I've ever had without laughing.
Here, you want some?
No, no, IIi, uh, I don't use any major hallucinogenics because I took a puff like five years ago at a party and
Yeah?
I tried to take my pants off over my head... ...my ear.
Oh, I don't know, I don't really. I don't do it very often, you know, just sort of, er... relaxes me at first.
M'hm. You're not gonna believe this, but
What? What?
Hey?
H'm?
III'm gonna buy you these books, I think, because II think you should read them. You know, instead of that cat book.
That's, uh... that's pretty serious stuff there.
Yeah, 'cause II'm, you know, I'm, I'm obsessed withwith, uh, with death, I think. Big
Yeah?
big subject with me, yeah.
Yeah?
I've a very pessimistic view of life. You should know this about me if we're gonna go out, you know. III feel that life isis divided up into the horrible and the miserable.
M'hm.
Those are the two categories...
M'hm.
...you know, they're Thethe horrible would be like, uh, I don't know, terminal cases, you know?
M'hm.
And blind people, crippled...
Yeah.
I don'tdon't know how they get through life. It's amazing to me.
M'hm.
You know, and the miserable is everyone else. That'sthat's all. So so when you go through life you should be thankful that you're miserable, because that's You're very lucky... to be... ...to be miserable.
Uhuh.
Look, look at that guy.
M'hm.
There'sthere'sthere'sthere's Mr. WheninthePink, Mr. Miami Beach, there, you know? He's the latest! just came back from the ginrummy farm last night. He placed third.
M'hm. Yeah. Yeah.
Look at these guys.
Yeah.
Oh, that's hilarious. They're back from Fire Island. They're... they're sort of giving it a chanceyou know what I mean?
Oh! Italian, right?
Yeah, he's the Mafia. Linen Supply Business or Cement and Contract, you know what I mean?
Oh, yeah.
No, I'm serious. I just got my mustache wet.
Oh, yeah?
And there's the winner of the Truman Capote lookalike contest.
You see, like you and I...
You are extremely sexy.
No, I'm not.
Unbelievably sexy. Yes, you are. Because... you know what you are? You'reyou're polymorphously perverse.
Well, what doeswhat does that mean? I don't know what that is.
Uh... uh, you'reyou're exceptional in bed because you got you get pleasure in every part of your body when I touch you.
Ooooh!
You know what I mean? Like the tip o'your nose, and if I stroke your teeth or your kneecaps... you get excited.
Come on. Yeah. You know what? You know, I like you, I really mean it. I really do like you.
You Do you love me?
Do I love you?
That's the key question.
Yeah.
I know you've only known me a short while.
Well, I certainly... I think that's very Yeah, yeah... yeah. Do you love me?
Iuh, love is, uh, is too weak a word for what...
Yeah.
I love you. You know I loove you, II love you. II have to invent Of course I love you.
Yeah.
Don't you think I do?
I dunno.
Whatta you mean? You're not gonna give up your own apartment, are you?
Of course.
Yeah, bububut why?
Well, I mean, I'm moving in with you, that's why.
Yeah, but youyou got a nice apartment.
I have a tiny apartment.
Yeah, I know it's small.
That's right, and it's got bad plumbing and bugs.
All right, granted, it has bad plumbing and bugs, but youyou say that like it's a negative thing. You know, bugs areareuh, entomology is a... ...rapidly growing field.
You don't want me to live with you?
How I don't want you to live with me? How Whose idea was it?
Mine.
Yeah. Was it... It was yours actually, but, uh, I approved it immediately.
I guess you think that I talked you into something, huh?
Nowhat, what...? I... we live together, we sleep together, we eat together. Jesus, you don't want it to be like we're married, do yuh?
How is it any different?
It's different 'cause you keep your own apartment. Because you know it's there, we don't have to go to it, we don't have to deal with it, but it's like aaa freefloating life raft... that we know that we're not married.
That little apartment is four hundred dollars a month, Alvy.
That place is four hundred dollars a month?
Yes, it is.
It'sit's got bad plumbing and bugs. Jesus, I'llMy accountant will write it off as a tax deduction, I'll pay for it.
You don't think I'm smart enough to be serious about.
Hey, don't be ridiculous.
Then why are you always pushing me to take those college courses like I was dumb or something?
'Cause adult education's a wonderful thing. You meet a lotta interesting professors. You know, it's stimulating.
Does this sound like a good course? Uh, "Modern American Poetry"? Uh, or, uhlet's see now... maybe I should, uh, take "Introduction to the Novel."
Just don't take any course where they make you read Beowulf.
What? Hey, listen, whatwhat do you think? Do you think we should, uh, go to thatthat party in Southampton tonight?
No, don't be silly. Whatwhat do we need other people for? You know, we shouldwe should just turn out the lights, you know, and play hide and seek or something.
Well, okay. Well, listen, I'm gonna get a cigarette, okay?
Yeah, grass, right? The illusion that it will make a white woman more like Billie Holiday.
Well, have you ever made love high?
Me, no. You... IIyou know, if I have grass or alcohol or anything I get unbearably wonderful. I get too, too wonderful for words. You know, I don'tI don't know why you have to, uh, get high every time we make love.
It relaxes me.
Oh, youyou have to be artificially relaxed before we can go to bed?
Well, what's the difference, anyway?
Well, I'll give you a shot of sodium pentothal. You can sleep through it.
Oh, come on, look who's talking. You've been seeing a psychiatrist for fifteen years. You should smoke some o' this. You'd be off the couch in no time.
Oh, come, you don't need that.
What are you doing?
No, no, no, what... You can once, you can live without it once. Come on.
Oh, no, Alvy, please. Alvy, please. M'mrnm.
M'm, wait, I got a great idea. Hang in there for a second. I got a littlelittle artifact. A little erotic artifact, thatthat I brought up from the city, which I think, uh, is gonna be perfect. I just... there... There's a little Old New Orleans... essence. Nownow we can go about our business here and we can even develop photographs if we want to. There, now there. M'mmm. M'mmm. Hey, is something wrong?
Uhuhwhy?
I don't know. You It's like you're you're removed.
No, I'm fine.
Really?
Uhuh.
I don't know, but you seem sort of distant.
Let's just do it, all right?
Is it my imagination or are you just going through the motions?
Oh, you have my body.
Yeah, but that's notthat's no good. I want the whole thing.
Well, I need grass and so do you.
Well, it ruins it for me if you have grass because, you know, I'm, like, a comedian
M'hm.
so if I get a laugh from a person who's high, it doesn't count. You know'cause they're always laughin'.
Were you always funny?
Hey, what is thisan interview? We're supposed to be making love.
Alvy, you were... Alvy, you were just great, I'm not kidding. It was You were so neat.
Cccoll College audiences are so wonderful.
Yeah. Yeah. And you know something? I think that I'm starting to get more of your references, too.
Are yuh?
Yeah.
Well, the twelve o'clock show is completely different than the nine.
You're so sure about it.
Oh, I'm really, uh, looking forward to tomorrow. I mean, you know, I think that it'll be really nice to meet Mother and Father.
Yeah, I know, they'll hate me immediately. Thank you.
No, I don't think so. No, I don't think they're gonna hate you at all. On the contrary, I think
Yeah.
It's Easter. You know, we'll have a nice dinner, we'll sit down and eat. I think they're gonna really like you.
You followed me. I can't believe it!
I didn't follow you!
You followed me!
Why? 'Cause I... was walkin' along a block behind you staring at you? That's not following!
Well, what is your definition of following?
Following is different. I was spying.
Do you realize how paranoid you are?
Paranoid? I'm looking at you. You got your arms around another guy.
That is the worst kind of paranoia.
Yeahwell, I didn't start out spying. II thought I'd surprise yuh. Pick you up after school.
Yeahwell, you wanted to keep the relationship flexible, remember? It's your phrase.
Oh, stop it. But you were having an affair with your college professor. That jerk that teaches that incredible crap course "Contemporary Crisis in Western Man"!
"Existential Motifs in Russian Literature"! You're really close.
What's the difference? It's all mental masturbation.
Oh, well, now we're finally getting to a subject you know something about!
Hey, don't knock masturbation! It's sex with someone I love.
We're not having an affair. He's married. He just happens to think I'm neat.
"Neat"! There's that What are you twelve years old? That's one o' your Chippewa Falls expressions! "He thinks I'm neat."
Who cares? Who cares?
Next thing you know he'll find you keen and peachy, you know? Next thing you know he's got his hand on your ass!
You've always had hostility toward David ever since I mentioned him!
David? You call your teacher David?
It's his name.
Well, listen, that's, a nice biit's a biblical name. Right? WWhat does he call you? Bathsheba?
I'm home!
Oh, yeah? How'd it go?
Oh, it was... really weird. But she's a very nice woman.
Yeah?
And I didn't have to lie down on the couch, Alvy, she had me sitting up. So I told her aboutabout thethe family and about my feelings toward men and about my relationship with my brother.
M'm.
And then she mentioned penis envy... Did you know about that?
Me? I'mI'm one of the few males who suffers from that, so, so... you know.
M'hm.
Ggo on, I'm interested.
Well, she said that I was very guilty about my impulses toward marriage, andand children.
M'hm.
And then I remembered when I was a kid how I accidentally saw my parents making love.
Tsch. Rea All this happened in the first hour?
M'hm.
That's amazing. III... I've been goin' for fifteen years, Iyou know, I don't got... nothing like that in
Oh, I told her my dream and then I cried.
You cried? I've never once cried. Fantastic...
Yeah.
I whine. III sit and I whine.
Inin... Alvy, in my dream Frank Sinatra is holding his pillow across my face and I can't breathe.
Sinatra?
Yeah, and he's strangling me...
Yeah?
and I keep, you know, it's
Well, well, sure... because he's a singer and you're a singer, you know, so it's perfect. So you're trying to suffocate yourself. Itit makes perfect sense. Uh, uh, that's a perfect analytic... kind of insight.
She said, your name was Alvy Singer.
Whatta you mean? Me?
Yeah, yeah, yeah, you. Because in the dream... I break Sinatra's glasses.
Sinatra had gl You never said Sinatra had glasses. So whatta you saying that II'm suffocating you?
Oh, and God, Alvy, I did... this really terrible thing to him. Because then when he sang it was in this real highpitched voice.
Tsch, what'd the doctor say?
Well, she said that I should probably come five times a week. And you know something? I don't think I mind analysis at all. The only question is, will it change my wife?
Will it change your wife?
Will it change my life?
Yeah, but you said, "Will it change my wife"!
No, I didn't. I said, "Will it change my life," Alvy.
You said, "Will it change..." Wife. Will it change...
Life. I said, "life."
She said, "Will it change my wife." You heard that because you were there so I'm not crazy.
And, Alvy... and then I told her about how I didn't think you'd ever really take me seriously, because you don't think that I'm smart enough.
Adult education is such junk! The professors are so phony. How can you do it?
A bit rapidly. I don't care what you say about David, he's a perfectly fine teacher!
David! David! I can't believe this!
And what are you doing following me around for, anyway?
I'm following you and David, if you
I just think we oughta call this relationship quits!
What's It's me, open up.
Oh.
Are you okay? What's the matter? Are you all right? What
There's a spider in the bathroom.
What?
There's a big black spider in the bathroom.
That's what you got me here for at three o'clock in the morning, 'cause there's a spider in the bathroom?
My God, I mean, you know how I am about insects.
Oooh.
I can't sleep with a live thing crawling around in the bathroom.
Kill it! For Go What's wrong with you? Don't you have a can of Raid in the house?
No.
I told you a thousand times you should always keep, uh, a lotta insect spray. You never know who's gonna crawl over.
I know, I know, and a firstaid kit and a fire extinguisher.
Jesus. All right, gimme a magazine. I 'cause I'm a little tired. You know, you, you joke withabout me, you make fun of me, but I'm prepared for anything. An emergency, a tidal wave, an earthquake. Hey, what is this? What? Did you go to a rock concert?
Yeah.
Oh, yeah, really? Really? Howhow'd you like it? Was itwas it, I mean, did it... was it heavy? Did it achieve total heavyocity? Or was it, uh...
It was just great!
Oh, humdinger. When Well, I got a wonderful idea. Why don'tcha get the guy who took you to the rock concert, we'll call him and he can come over and kill the spider. You know, it's a
What is this? What are you, since when do you read the "National Review"? What are you turning in to?
Well, I like to try to get all points of view.
It's wonderful. Then why don'tcha get William F. Buckley to kill the spider?
Alvy, you're a little hostile, you know that? Not only that, you look thin and tired.
Well, I was in be It's three o'clock in the morning. You, uh, you got me outta bed, I ran over here, I couldn't get a taxi cab. You said it was an emergency, and I didn't ge I ran up the stairs. Hell  I was a lot more attractive when the evening began. Look, uh, tell Whatta you Are you going with a rightwing rockand roll star? Is that possible?
Would you like a glass of chocolate milk?
Hey, what am Iyour son? Whatta you mean? II came over to 
I got the good chocolate, Alvy.
Yeah, where is the spider?
It really is lovely. It's in the bathroom.
Is he in the bathroom?
Hey, don't squish it, and after it's dead, flush it down the toilet, okay? And flush it a couple o' times.
Darling, darling, I've been killing spiders since I was thirty, okay?
Oh. What?
Very big spider.
Yeah?
Two... Yeah. Lotta, lotta trouble. There's two of 'em.
Two?
Yep. I didn't think it was that big, but it's a major spider. You got a broom or something with a
Oh, II left it at your house.
snow shovel or anything or something.
I think I left it there, I'm sorry.
Okay, let me have this.
Well, what are you doing... what are you doing with
Honey, there's a spider in your bathroom the size of a Buick.
Hey, what is this? You got black soap?
It's for my complexion.
Whattawhatta yuh joining a minstrel show? Geez. Don't worry! I did it! I killed them both. What what's the matter? Whatta you whatta you sad about? You What'd you want me to do? Capture 'em and rehabilitate 'em?
Oh, don't go, okay? Please.
Whatta you mean, don't go? Whatta whatta what's the matter? Whatta you expecting termites? What's the matter?
Oh, uh, I don't know. I miss you. Tsch.
Oh, Jesus, really?
Oh, yeah. Oh. Oh! Alvy?
What?
Was there somebody in your room when I called you?
Wwwhatta you mean?
I mean was there another I thought I heard a voice.
Oh, I had the radio on.
Yeah?
I'm sorry. I had the television set had the television
Yeah.
Alvy, let's never break up again. I don't wanna be apart.
Oh, no, no, I think we're both much too mature for something like that.
Living together hasn't been so bad, has it?
It's all right for me, it's been terrific, you know? Better than either one of my marriages. See, 'cause... 'cause there's just something different about you. I don't know what it is, but it's great.
You know I think that if you let me, maybe I could help you have more fun, you know? I mean, I know it's hard and... Yeah.
I don't know.
Alvy, what about... what if we go away this weekend, and we could
Tsch, why don't we get... why don't we get Rob, and the three of us'll drive into Brooklyn, you know, and we show you the old neighborhood.
Okay, okay. Okay.
That'd be fun for yuh. Don't you think
Yeah.
me, my God, it's a great day!
Hey, can yuh watch the road? Watch the 
Oh, look, look, there's that... that's that's my old house. That's where we used to live.
Holy cow!
Well, I had a really good day, you know that? It was just a real fine way to spend my birthday.
Ah? Oh, well, your birthday's not till tomorrow, honey, I hate to tell yuh.
Yeah, but it's real close.
Yeah, but no presents till midnight.
Oh, darn it.
Happy birthday.
What is this? Is this a... Present? Are you kidding?
Yeah, hey, why don't yuh try it on?
Uh, yeah, uh... ttthis is more like a present for you, yeah, but it's
Try it... it'll add years to our sex life.
Uh huh. Yeah. Forget it.
Here's a real present.
What... huh?
Check it out.
Oh, yeah? What is this, anyway? Let me see. Okay, let's... oooh, God! Oh, you knew I wanted this... God, it's terrific, God!
Yeah, I know. Justjust put on the watch, andand... that thing, and we'll just...
Oh! My God!
You wereyou were sensational. I mean, Iyou know, II told yuh that if yuh stuck to it, you would be great, andand, you know, IIyou you were sensational.
Yeah, well, we have the, I mean, they were just a terrific audience, I mean, you know, it makes it really easy for me, because I can be... huh?
Remember, we had that thing.
What thing?
Don't you remember wewewe discussed that thing that we were
Thing?
yes, we had, uh...
Oh, the thing! Oh, the thing... ...yeah... yeah.
What's... you... well, what's the matter, You wwanna go to that party?
I don't know, I thought it might be kind of fun, you know what I mean, it'd be nice to meet some new people.
I'm just not... you know, I don't think I could take a mellow eve 'cause II don't respond well to mellow, you know what I mean, II have a tendency to... if I get too mellow, II ripen and then rot. You know, and it'sit's not good for my...
All right, all right, you don't wanna go to the party, so uh, whatta you wanna do?
That day in Brooklyn was the last day I remember really having a great time.
Well, we never have any laughs anymore, is the problem.
Well, I've been moody and dissatisfied.
Hardly ever. Maybe three times a week.
Constantly! I'd say three times a week. Like the other night, Alvy wanted to have sex.
She would not sleep with me the other night, you know, it's
And... I don't know... I mean, six months ago II woulda done it. I woulda done it, just to please him.
I mean... I tried everything, you know, III put on soft music and my my red light bulb, and...
But the thing isI mean, since our discussions here, I feel I have a right to my own feelings. I think you woulda been happy because... uh, uh, I really asserted myself.
The incredible thing about it is, I'm paying for her analysis and she's making progress and I'm getting screwed.
I don't know, though, I feel so guilty because Alvy is paying for it, so, you know, so I do feel guilty if I don't go to bed with him. But if I do go to bed with him, it's like I'm going against my own feelings. I don't know II can't win.
You know... it's getting expensive my analyst... for her analyst. She she's making progress and I'm not making any progress. Her progress is defeating my progress.
Sometimes I thinksometimes I think I should just live with a woman.
You never wanna try anything new, Alvy.
How can you say that? I mean, who said IIII said that you, I and that girl from your acting class should sleep together in a threesome.
That's sick!
Yeah, I know it's sick, but it's new. You know, you didn't say it couldn't be sick.
Yeah. Come on. It'd be fun.
Oh, I'm sure it's a lot of fun, 'cause the Incas did it, you know, andand theytheythey were a million laughs.
Alvy, come on, for your own experience. I mean, you wanna write, why not?
...I'm thrilled. As you know, uh... uh, on my agent's advice I sold out, and I'm gonna do an appearance on TV.
No, no, no that's not it at all. Alvy's giving an award on television. Gee, he talks like he's violating a moral issue sitting here.
God.
Really? And what is the kick of it? Because I never...
God, it's so clean out here.
It's that they don't throw their garbage away. They make it into television shows.
Oh, oh, no, I can'tI can't eat this. I'm nauseous. If you couldif you could just give me something to get me through the next two hours, you know II have to go out to Burbank... and give out an award on a TV show.
Well... Hh huh... Oh, good... Yes, I'll tell him.
Excuse me. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, Doctor. Uh, AlvyAlvy, that was the show. They said everything is fine. They found a replacement, so they're going to tape without you.
I'm nauseous. Oh, jesus, now I don't get to do the TV show?
Christ!
Nothing at all?
Yeah, this place is great.
Yeah.
I'm into garbage. It's my thing.
Boy, this is really a nice screening room. It's really a nice room.
Oh, good. Okay.
I'm cool.
It's wonderful. I mean, you know they just watch movies all day.
Yeah, and gradually you get old and die. You know it's important to make a little effort once in a while.
Don't you think his girl friend's beautiful?
Yeah, she's got a greatlookin' fa A pat on the androgynous side. But it's...
Alvy, uh, let's face it. You know something, don't think our relationship is working.
Tsch, I know. A relationship, I think, isis like a shark, you know? It has to constantly move forward or it dies. And I think what we got on our hands is a dead shark.
Whose "Catcher in the Rye" is this?
Well, let's see now... If it has my name on it, then I guess it's mine.
Oh, it sure has... You know, you wrote your name in all my books, 'cause you knew this day was gonna come.
Well, uh, Alvy, you wanted to break up just as much as I do.
There's nono question in my mind. I think we're doing the mature thing, without any doubt.
Now, look, all the books on death and dying are yours and all the poetry books are mine.
This "Denial of Death". You remember this?
Oh
This is the first book that I got you.
God.
Remember that day?
Right. Geez, I feel like there's a great weight off my back. M'mmm.
Thanks, honey.
Oh, no, no, no, no, no. I mean, you know, no, no, no, I mean, I think it's really important for us to explore new relationships and stuff like that.
Yeah, my analyst thinks this move is keen for me.
Yeah, and II tru you know, I trust her, because mymy analyst recommended her.
Well, why should I put you through all my moods and hangups anyway?
Right. And youand you know what the beauty part is?
What?
We can always come back together again. Because there's nothere's no problem. 'Cause... Right.
Exactly, but... exactly. Ooooh!
You know, III don't think many couples could handle this. You know, they could just break up and remain friends.
Hey, this one's mine, this button. This one, you rem
Yeah.
I guess these are all yours. Impeach, uh, Eisenhower... Impeach Nixon... Impeach Lyndon Johnson... Impeach Ronald Reagan.
You look very pretty.
Oh, no, I just lost a little weight, that's all. Well, you look nice.
You see, II've been thinking about it and I think that we should get married.
Oh, Alvy, come on.
Why? You wanna live out here all year? It's like living in Munchkin Land.
Well, whatta you mean? I mean, it's perfectly fine out here. I mean, Tony's very nice and, uh, well, I meet people and I go to parties and and we play tennis. I mean, that's... that's a very big step for me, you know? I mean... I'm able to enjoy people more.
So whatta you... You're not gonna come back to New York?
What's so great about New York? I mean, it's a dying city. You read "Death in Venice."
Hey, you didn't read "Death in Venice" till I bought it for yuh.
That's right, that's right. You only gave me books with the word "death" in the titles.
That's right, 'cause it's an important issue.
Alvy, you're incapable of enjoying life, you know that? I mean, your life is New York City. You're just this person. You're like this island unto yourself.
I can't enjoy anything unless I... unless everybody is. Iyou know, if one guy is starving someplace, that's... you know, II... it puts a crimp in my evening. So wanna get married or what?
No. We're friends. I wanna remain friends.
Okay. Check, please. Can I can I... Can I... Can I...
You're mad, aren't you?
No. Yes, of course I'm mad, because you love me, I know that.
Alvy, I can't say that that's true at this point in my life. I really just can't say that that's true. I mean, you know how wonderful you are. I mean, you know... you're the reason that I got outta my room and that I was able to sing, andand and, you know, get more in touch with my feelings and all that crap. Anyway, look, I don't wanna Listen, listen, listen, uh h'h, so whatta you up to anyway, huh?
The usual, you know. Uh, tryin' t' write. I'm workin' on a play. Jesus. So whatta yuh saying? That you're not comin' back to New York with me?
You mean that... IIII flew three thousand miles to see you.
I'm late.
Air miles, you know. I mean, you know what that does to my stomach?
If you must know, it's a hectic time for Tony. The Grammys are tonight.
The what?
The Grammys. He's got a lotta records up for awards.
You mean they give awards for that kind o' music?
Oh!
I thought just earplugs.
Excuse... excuse me, when do I go on?
Who are you?
Alvy... Alvy Singer. I'm a comedian.
Oh, comedian. Yes. Oh, uh... you're on next.
What do you mean, next?
Uh ... I mean you're on right after this act.
No, it can't be, because he's a comic.
Yes.
So what are you telling me, you're putting on two comics in a row?
Why not?
No, I'm sorry, I'm not goin' I can't... I don't wanna go on after that comedian.
It's okay.
No, because they'rethey're laughing, so III'd rather not. If you don't mind, I prefer
Will you relax, please? They're gonna love you, I know.
I prefer not to, because... look, they're laughing at him. See, so what are yuh telling me
Yes.
that I've got to... ah... ah... They're gonna laugh at him for a couple minutes, then I gotta go out there, I gotta ... get laughs, too. How much can they laugh? Theythey they're laughed out.
Do you feel all right?
Allison.
Yeah? Allison what?
Portchnik.
H'm, I'm sorry, I can't go through with this, because itI can't get it off my mind, Allison... it's obsessing me!
Well, I'm getting tired of it. I need your attention.
Itbut itit... doesn't make any sense. He drove past the book depository and the police said conclusively that it was an exit wound. Sohow is it possible for Oswald to have fired from two angles at once? It doesn't make sense.
Alvy.
We've been through this.
If theythey recovered the shells from that rifle.
Okay. All right, so whatta yuh saying, now? That eeeverybody ooon the Warren Commission is in on this conspiracy, right?
Well, why not?
Yeah, Earl Warren?
Hey... honey, I don't know Earl Warren.
Lyndon Johnson?
LLLyndon Johns Lyndon Johnson is a politician. You know the ethics those guys have? It's likeuh, a notch underneath child molester.
Then everybody's in in the conspiracy?
Tsch.
The FBI, and the CIA, and J. Edgar Hoover and oil companies and the Pentagon and the men'sroom attendant at the White House?
IIII would leave out the men's room attendant.
You're using this conspiracy theory as an excuse to avoid sex with me.
Oh, my God! She's right! Why did I turn off Allison Portchnik? She wasshe was beautiful. She was willing. She was real... intelligent. Is it the old Groucho Marx joke? Thatthat II just don't wanna belong to any club that would have someone like me for a member?
You're a thinking person. How can you choose this lifestyle?
What is so incredibly great about New York? It's a dying city! Youyou read "Death in Venice".
You didn't read "Death in Venice" till I gave it to you!
Well, you only give me books with the word "death" in the title.
It's an important issue.
Alvy, you are totally incapable of enjoying life.
You're like New York. You're an island.
Okay, if that's all that we've been through together means to you, I guess it's better if we just said goodbye, once and for all! You know, it's funny, after all the serious talks and passionate moments that it ends here... in a health food restaurant on Sunset Boulevard. Goodbye, Sunny.
Hey!
What?
This is Alvy Singer!
Who's on television?
This guy, on the Johnny Carson show.
Singer!
Alvy Singer over here!
Well, you take a meeting with him, I'll take a meeting with you if you'll take a meeting with Freddy.
I took a meeting with Freddy. Freddy took a meeting with Charlie. You take a meeting with him.
All the good meetings are taken.
Not only is he a great agent, but he really gives good meetings.
M'mm.
Hey, you on television?
No. Yeah, once in a while. You know, like occasionally.
What's your name?
You wouldn't know it. It doesn't matter. What's the difference?
You were on... uh, the... uh, the Johnny Carson, right?
Once in a while, you know. I mean, you know, every now
What's your name?
I'm... I'm, uh, I'm Robert Redford.
Come on.
Alvy Singer. It was nice nice... Thanks very much... for everything.
Fellas... you knowJesus! Come on!
This guy's on television! Alvy Singer, right? Am I right?
Gimme a break, will yuh, gimme a break. Jesus Christ!
This guy's on television.
I need a large polo mallet!
Can I have your autograph?
You don't want my autograph.
Yeah, I do. It's for my girl friend. Make it out to Ralph.
Your girl friend's name is Ralph?
It's for my brudder. Alvy Singer! Hey! This is Alvy
May I present her Royal Highness Princess Anastasia!
Oh good! We haven't seen an Anastasia in several days!
Are you impressed with our Anastasia?
Oh, heavens  I must say, yes.
Then, you'll take her to see Tatiana?
Oh, heavens I must say... no, no actually, I can't  Tatiana has refused to see any more girls.
Perhaps you could convince her?
Oh, heavens, no... but ... She is going to be at the Ballet Russe tonight! That's the Russian Ballet  Russe for Russian, oh those crazy French... they only go to see which dancers will defect.
Rasputin! You're alive . . .
Despite being shot, poisoned and thrown into an icy river . . . YES!
I had nothing to do with it!
You gave the orders!
I did no such thing!
After all I've done for your family  YOU TRIED TO KILL MEEEEEE ! ! !
I need to speak with the Dowager Empress ...
How much pain will you inflict on an old woman for money?!
Please, if you'd just listen...
Remove him at once.
I'm not Ulo and I won't slow down. But you will listen to me!
You! How dare you?! Stop this car immediately!
Anastasia's music box... She had this all these years... You could have found it...
What I <U>found</U>your was your granddaughter!
I sent for you because I owe you a debt of gratitude larger than I can ever repay
No. Empress, you 
I want you to have the reward money  you've earned it.
Empress, no! I will not take the money! I just came to tell you I was sorry...
Young man, I...
You are the boy ...
I should go
That last night in the palace... one boy showed us kindness and courage. You were the boy who saved our lives, weren't you? Please, is there nothing I can do to repay you?
Promise me she'll have her home.
She does.
And tell me that she's happy.
Oh, Dmitri.I wish that I could.
So. You don't want to go to the coronation, eh?
Rasputin!
I know, I know ... you thought I was dead. That's how the history books will remember me  not as the ruler of all of Russia, which I SHOULD HAVE BEEN  but as the guy who was never dead when you expected him to be.
What do you want?!
The same thing I wanted ten years ago  all the Romonovs dead I got the others, now I have to finish up with that nuisance, Anastasia...
You're insane! You didn't kill the Romonovs  it was the...
STOP IT! I DID SO KILL THEM! And I'm going to kill Anastasia.
I'll show you!
Run, Anya  go...
It's no use, Dmitri  we'll never find the right girl!
We will. We <u>have</u> to. Come on, Vlad  she's out there.
What was that?
That was your dinner! I do hope there is no cabbage in Paris!
It's her.
He's her?
Look!
She doesn't want to do anything "dishonest". . .
Ew. . . the honest type.
Hurry up with those papers.
Would you have leaned over Rembrant's shoulder and told him to paint faster?
Wake up, young lady, that's our train.
"Wake up, your highness"  we should start getting used to saying it.
What a world  a man who was in my position in society is calling a peasant 'Your Highness".
You're a princess...
Royalty do not help people with their luggage.
Well, she certainly has a mind of her own.
Yes. And I hate that in a woman.
What do we do now?
Pray he's colorblind...
See? The Princess is under there ...
Ah! Let us begin!
How is our current financial status?
If I used the word "bleak" I would be optimistic.
The "Odessa Dunk"?
It worked in Odessa...
We did it! We did it, my boy! We're going to see Tatiana at the ballet tonight and we're going to be rich! Rich!
But it's not the money, Vlad.
Are you feeling all right?
Life is funny, isn't it. You find the right girl ... and then you lose her.
What do you mean?
Dmitri ... You must understand that once you take her to Tatiana... well, it's over... nothing can happen between you. She's a princess and you're a commoner.
But this invitation came from the Empress herself! It's the social event of the decade! You can't turn it down!
Watch me.
So where will you go?
She found her home. Maybe it's time I found one too!
What?
Oh my God! Don't do that ... feel my heart. Go ahead. I'm dying here ...
And what do you want, my little ratwithwings?
I gave you that tongue and I can rip it out!
No, I really like my tongue... we're very attached. Oyyyy... Okay, now... promise you won't get angry.
Why would I ever be angry with you, little friend?
So, I'm cruisin' the rafters and... what can I say, I struck out. I thought chicks would like the fact that I can talk, you know but, I mean, the way things are going I couldn't get invited to a plague. Someone's gotta clean that up...
Get to the point sometime tonight.. I'm late for a wenching.
Okay... you're not gonna like this but, well, it looks like Anastasia is ... still alive.
Trust me, it's her!
How do you know?
Rodent's intuition, how do I know? She looks exactly like her. Except she's taller, which is natural ... Of course my second cousin Treplev  he never grew. Looks like a little pepper shaker. He was so cute ...
Hey, she's just a kid. And she's going to Paris outta sight, outta mind, outta Russia.
I cursed then all!
My Aunt Bella, sweet woman not the brightest bat in the world  she used to hang right side up, anyway she always said "Curses were made to be broken". Course, she said it in those irritating little bat squeaks, so it wasn't quite so profound...
Do you have any idea what would happen if that broke?!
You'd lose your security deposit?
Evil, powerful beings  I have their power only if I contain them, control them. If they should all be released at once... well ...
Yesss... our power is much stronger when were near. We must get close to her.
Oy... not a road trip. I get wagon sick, you know that.
I'm getting a chest cold..
Bartok... a question.
I'm getting pneumonia. I have a fever. Feel my forehead...
What do you think is the most humiliating way to die?
Boy, don't you hate it when that happens?
She leads a charmed life, that little one ... Someone is always there to save her. In the palace as a child, on the train and now ... it's him.
Bartok ... have you ever been to Paris?
Me? No. Rich food  it kills me. Ever try and fly after one of those heavy sauces?
PARSE HOLDS THE KEY TO MY HEART FRENCH BAT CHICKS HANG OUT AT MONTMARTRE WE'LL EAT SOME INSECTS THEN GO BACK AND HAVE 
Shut up!
Who are you, child?
I don't know! I don't want to hurt you...
Do you remember this?
I remember something lost ... I'm so confused! Oh, please, just tell me if you recognize me! Do you think I could have... belonged to you ...
PAR AWAY, LONG AGO GLOWING DEEP AS AN EMBER
THINGS MY HEAR USED TO KNOW THINGS IT YEARS TO REMEMBER
... and that Christmas dinner, when Cook made that awful plum pudding and we hid it in our pockets so we wouldn't hurt her feelings! I do remember so much now, Grandmama,  but not everything.
Don't worry about that now, child, it will all come back to you now that you're home...
Anastasia! It was just a bat! It's gone, dear...
No, it wasn't a bat! I saw this horrible man  I remember him, I think...
No, no child... shush... it's all right ...
Don't you, child?
Oh, yes, Grandmama  I wait until I hear...
No, not about the ceremony, Anastasia  do you understand the choice you must make.
Dmitri didn't want the money?
No, he just wanted to know you were happy.
Why does everyone have to act that way?
You'll have to become used to it, child, if you accept the crown...
"If" I accept?! Of course I'm going to accept! it's what I always wanted!
Is it? Is this what you want?
I wanted to come home, Grandmama  and I did. I came back to my home with you.
You can't go back to find your home. Your home is in your heart, in the future that you make for yourself.
And this is my future. This is who I am!
This is who you were. Exactly who you are is up to you.
I don't know who I am! I still don't know!
Yes, you do. You do.
I've spent my whole life waiting to find you ...
And we have found each other nothing will ever change that! I am your family, dear child, but I may not be your home.
Ouch! That really hurt!
I'm sorry. . . I'm. . .
That's quite a hard head you've got there, boy.
AND A SONG SOMEONE SINGS ONCE UPON A DECEMBER.
Who are you?!
People say Anastasia was the only member of the Royal Family to escape alive. That makes her an orphan too
What happened to your parents?
I don't know  I don't remember anything that happened before the revolution. . .
You know, it's strange  Anastasia's grandmother, the Dowager Empress Tatiana has been looking for Anastasia since the revolution. Why do you think she wouldn't go to her own grandmother?
I don't know. I don't see what this has to do with me.
Perhaps it's because she has amnesia too  can't remember. . .
Why do you want to go to Paris?
I have my reasons.
Anastasia's grandmother is in Paris. We're going to bring Anastasia to her  in Paris.
You never thought of the possibility?
Look  there isn't an orphan in the world who doesn't dream she's a princess but, come on. . . Look at me!
Do you always punch people first thing in the morning?
Sorry  it's a reflex. Living in an orphanage if someone bothers you  you automatically come up swinging.
I wasn't bothering you. I was trying to wake you up!
By pulling my hair?!
I was all out of dynamite!
I'm going to stretch my legs
That's a good idea  a great idea  stretch your legs ... stretch then that way.
Come on up!
Why?
Just what do you think you're doing?!
Trying... to... breathe...
Forged papers! Now, what?!
Now just get off the train.
HUH?!
Come on!
No!
You must enjoy causing me pain!
You shouldn't have pushed us!
You never said anything to me about having to prove I'm a Princess!
You are the Princess.
Every Russian family has one..
Natasha! Natasha Feastavich! but we called her Nashie Fooshie!
...fish fork, salad fork, meat fork and. . . [THIS SECTION ALSO NOT LEDGABLE]
It's the best fork of all
The dessert fork!
What a beautiful ship!
It used to be a private yacht before the government took it over.
You said you wouldn't laugh!
It's not you  it's the dress!
It's so beautiful ... and sad.
Sad?
Lost. it feels lost. This was hers?
Yeah ... well, yours. You still don't believe that you're the Princess, do you?
I know I must have had something to do with the palace  I've had little flashes of things  but being the Princess? It doesn't matter as long as I find my home.
Well, the only thing you've got when you've got a home is a fear of losing it! You're lucky you don't remember the revolution  I never had much, but what I did have  I lost.
I'm sorry.
Hey! It doesn't matter! You gotta make your own way in the world! Don't be sorry for me! I'm going to get what I want don't you worry!
Oh! I'm sorry...
It's okay. Didn't hurt..
Nervous?
Yes  If I can't convince Sophie, I'll never be able to see Tatiana....
You'll convince her. You have the qualities of a princess you're poised and strong... and beautiful ... even if you forget a couple dates of family names  she'll know.
I'm so scared...
Don't be
Anya, wait!
Tell me it isn't true?! Tell me you didn't do this for the money!
No! Well, yes, but
No! I thought you believed in me! It was all a lie!
I'm glad you found what you were looking for.
I'm glad you did too.
Dmitri?
Anya... where are we?
Don't let me go!
I'll never let go!
Who did you hear it from?
I heard it from everyone who said I didn't hear it from them! Do you know Dmitri?
Providing travel papers is illeagal! I know Dmitri well  perhaps I can help you. Providded you have enough money to pay for this service. . .
Well, I don't have any money . . .
Good day!
I was just wondering since we already have the dress. . .
Look, I came here to get papers to travel to Paris and. . .
Noooo....
She's quite right, Dmitri, a man of my stature should not have to
Is everyone all right?
I'm fine.
We have to prepare you for an audience with Sophie.
Who's Sophie?
Ah ... the Lady Sophie... The ravishing first cousin, once removed, from the Empress. We must convince Sophie that you are the Princess before we'll be granted a meeting with the Empress ... your grandmother, I mean.
We're just going to refresh your memory...
I don't have a memory and I'm not a Princess! Even if I were  no one's ever going to believe it. I'm not exactly...
Did I tell you that?
You must have.
No! I look ridiculous!
Come out! I can do alterations.
You'll laugh.
I shant!
Not you. Him.
Oh, Meetoo! You look miserable! Oh, Vlad  look at him!
Yes, your highness.
Poor Meetoo!
Yes, your highness.
Cut it out, Vlad! I'm not angry with you anymore  I know how much you needed the money.
Fortunately, I am to be married. With your highness, permission.
Vlad, stop acting this way! You're my friend!
No. From now on I am your loyal subject ... your highness. By your leave?
Are you running away?
No. I'm running <u>to</u>.
Where is your home, Anya?
I'm not sure but look. . .
I have to go now, before it gets light.
But what if we can't ever find where we came from?!
Then you'll have to make your own home. Lots of people do.
Anya! What if <u>we</u> can't find anyone who loves us?!
Then come find me.
Why were you so late tonight
I was showing Sonya something . . .
What were you showing her?
How to read.
I thought you were told not to tutor your servants anymore.
I know, but I had to because . . .
Oh, Grandmama, why do you have to go back to Paris?
It's where I've made my home but I do have something for you . . .
"Together in Paris"! Oh, when can we be "together in Paris?!
When you're older . . .
Hurry, Grandmama!
Get on! Anastasia, get on!
Merde.
He says 
Here.
Your uncle was carrying this. The keys to his apartment are in there. I talked to his assistant, Madame Flocquet. You'll be staying there a while?
Well?
Okay. So maybe you were right.
Hmmph. At least now there's one person around here who doesn't think I'm crazy.
Twelve thirtysix a.m. here. Twelve forty a.m. here. There's two of them. At least.
Merde.
Two more nights in this lunar cycle.
Double merde.
You better follow that McDermott kid. He's going to wind up like his uncle if he's not careful.
Right. Little twerp thinks he's Colombo.
Saint Severin...
You never heard the story of Saint Severin driving the werewolves from Paris?
You think that's what McDermott was raving about in the ambulance?
What, you think everyone's as ignorant as you?
What've you got?
Just a crazy call from a girl, probably fucked up on drugs. I wouldn't bother you but you said call with anything unusual.
What did she say?
Something about a monster, underground, in the catacombs under Place Denfert.
I need two tactical assault squads at Place Denfert immediately. You can tell the commissioner it's a code red.
But Inspector, this girl, I wouldn't call her reliable.
Now!
Yes sir.
Andy, stop! I think he can help you 
Allo?
Andy!
Serafine? Is that you? What's going on?
Claude, it's Andy, he's acting really weird, I think something happened last night...
God, well don't let him go! Catch him!
No, it's no cure. It's something much more interesting.
You fucking liar!
Oh, did I hurt the little girl's feelings? Well excusez moi... I confess my desire for ADM is quite "intense". So I deceived you and our poor friend Terry  a competent technician, but let's face it, a bit naive. "The great cure for lycanthropy!" Hmph. He didn't have the vision to grasp the potential of ADAM, until it was too late. And even then, he came rushing down to tell me, as if I would be just as shocked! Ha.
Okay. So he's weird. Maybe on drugs. Still, that's not 
I'm telling you. It's not drugs. It's something more. Someth 
Don't give me your black magic bullshit! Seven mutilations in forty eight hours and all you find is a scrawny American boy? Do you have a motive? Do you have a weapon? Or do you want me to believe he did it with his own two hands?
I told you. These murders are not normal.
Enough. Cut him loose.
I can't! At midnight tonight, he will kill again. It's crazy!
Are you crazy? We have nothing. Let him go, then watch him. If you're right, you can pick him up at midnight. Or maybe he'll lead you to the others. Just let him go.
Andrew Mcdairmo?
That's McDermott, but yeah.
He's in charge but, uh, between you and me, my English is better. This way... So you're from New York eh? I love those Hill Street Blues...
Right. Listen, my uncle, it's not serious is it? Did he eat some bad snails? Slip on the bidet? What?
Jesus...
How well did, er, do you know him?
Not too well. He taught at the Sorbonne, right? Dad always calls him his "hippie brother". Did some work with Timothy Leary I think, and  Is he... is he going to die?
No. The doctors say the machines should keep him going a long time. But basically he is, how you say, a legume.
Legume? You mean, a vegetable?
Vegetable, right. My mistake. It seems he was attacked by a maniac, maybe two or three maniacs, just after midnight. yesterday. They fled into the tunnels beneath Paris, that's all we know...
What do you mean, maniacs?
Well, here's what I think happened. A chemistry professor goes to a bad part of town late at night. Why? Perhaps he's making a few francs on the side. The psychedelic drug market is big these days. He gets mixed up with a bad crowd and, like they say, if you lie with dogs, you get fleas.
Yeah, well, these fleas must have teeth like fuckin' chain saws.
Maybe we should go now. You must be very tired. We'll call if any new 
I can't believe this. Why don't you go down in the tunnels and find the goddamn... animals that attacked my uncle?
Andy, it's not so easy. There are hundreds of kilometers of tunnels under Paris. It's a whole other city, crawling with drug addicts, lunatics, skinheads... It's no man's land.
Yeah. I guess so. Did he say anything? Before the coma?
Just the name of this hospital, St. Severin. He repeated it a few times then he lost consciousness.
Why would he pick this one?
I don't know. There were others much closer. He was religious?
Not that I know.
Well, when you're about to pop off, what have you got to lose? Thanks for your help.
I'm afraid she's not so lucky. She's undead. And so am I.
Aaaaa!!! Get the fuck away from me!
What are you so damn angry about? Did somebody turn into a wild beast and rip your intestines out? Huh?
Fuck you! If I'm gonna kill myself I'll do it when I'm good and ready! You can go to hell!
No we can't. That's the problem. God knows it would beat hanging around with you!
Alright. Let me write a letter.
Good man. Now can I have my arms back?
What the hell, lots of my heroes killed themselves. Hemingway, Van Gogh... um... Herve Villachaise...
But this is class kid, all the way. What a way to go.
Shit. I feel sick.
Don't worry. In a few seconds you won't feel a thing.
Puking on yourself in midair is not a good death.
Yeah, well I don't know much about chemistry, but even if this stuff works, you better find it by midnight. Otherwise it's 
Yeah, I know. Back to the Eiffel Tower. And what about you?
Uncle Terrence?
Andy? Andy is that you?
Yeah. Look, uncle Terrence 
Andy, I have to tell you about the dream I had  or that I'm still having  it feels like a systemic, physio tropic reaction to some drug, maybe a triptamine or phenethylamine derivative. But it is hyperreal. I'd swear my legs had been cut off or... wait a second... I'm getting a strange metaphysical buzz. Shit. I'm, uh, dead, aren't I?
Sort of...
Undead. Right. Sort of an ectocosmic manifestation. What a pisser. Tell you one thing though, Timothy Leary will be jealous as hell.
Great, but listen, I need to know where you hid the ADM?
The ADM! Be careful, Andy. It's very powerful. How do you know about it?
I went to St. Severin church. Now look 
Oh shit! No! Andy, don't let them take me back there!
The ADM! Quickly! Where is it?!
Where is it! Please!
AHHH!! The wine cellar!! In a bottle of Chateau Margaux. A metal cylinder... Don't... Don't  AAAAH!
Uncle Terrence, you're...
Yeah, I finally "checked out", thank God. But there's a bit of unfinished business.
Claude.
I never thought I'd ask this of anyone, Andy, but do me a favor and kill the evil sonofabitch, will you?
I'm sorry my friend, I'm not signing books right now. There's been a tragedy.
I know. I'm Andy McDermott. Terrence's nephew.
It's horrible. Terrence was one of the most brilliant men I've known.
Yeah, well, why did he hang out here? The cops said it's dangerous 
The cops. It's their backward laws that force all this underground in the first place, endangering people whose only crime is pushing the limits of perception, exploring new states of psychic awareness.
Psychic awareness. Right.
You think it's silly. But do you realize that young man is actually in a deep sleep?
What?
He's on a new drug called ZBH, or "Daydream". It allows the user to be fully alert and mobile while he's dreaming. He is literally conscious and unconscious at the same time.
Yeah well, that's like really groovy and everything, but who hacked my uncle's legs off?
Andy...
Yeah?
Terrence and I came down here to do serious work. For centuries these tunnels have been home to subcultures mainstream society would not tolerate.
You didn't know? But then why did you... well, don't worry. It's relatively mild.
Yeah, well if I claw my face off, just pack it in ice, okay? Jesus... the cops were probably right. My uncle was messed up with a bunch of fry brains and they went berserk on him.
Not you too 
My God! Serafine's right. It's time to go. We'll talk soon.
You're exactly right, Andy. I enlisted both Serafine and your uncle to obtain ADM. And now I'm counting on your assistance too.
Why the fuck would I do that?
"Simon ate of the heart of the beast and his soul was cleansed." These pictures are not just myth, Andy. The scholars of the day used them to record facts and enlighten the public. This is the medieval version of a newspaper.
Yeah, well what if it's the Weekly World News...
I don't believe we've been introduced.
What?... Oh, right, you can see these guys too. Jesus...
Great. Later on we'll have to get together for cocktails. Right now I kinda have to hurry before I grow a lot of hair and eat people. Say this heart thing works. What's it got to do with ADM?
It's chemistry, Andy. Nothing more. Mutated antigens concentrated in the heart of the infector unlock a vaccine like chain reaction in the infectee. There were not many biochemists working in the twelfth century, but with today's technology it's possible to synthesize any chemical imaginable. When I discovered this ancient cure I knew who to go to.
Uncle Terrence.
Yes. I was able to decode the old texts and give Terrence the specifications. It took a lot of trial and error, but finally he got it: Adenine DiMethyloxide. ADM. I call it ADAM. But just before he was attacked, he hid it...
Because Gaston was after it.
Yes, that sociopath. He's given himself over to the evil of lycanthropy. To him, ADAM is just a threat to the terror he holds over others. To us, it's salvation.
Eight o'clock. Shit. You'd think my uncle would have left a clue, a note, something...
That's what Serafine is searching for. Without much luck, I'm afraid. If only we could speak with him. But alas, he's off in another realm, close to death.
It killed him... You coulda just used Draino. It's cheaper.
I told him it wasn't ready...
All my life I've worked to unlock the power of the unconscious mind. Well this is it. This is power!
You sure it's not just 'coz you jerk off too much?
You recognize her?
What?!
We know you were with her.
Oh shit... No...
That's not all... Marcel  Officer Boulard was following you.
Oh no... no....
He was a good man. Now his wife is a widow.
This is... it's like a sick joke, I 
Merde... Wait here. When I return you tell me about last night, huh?
But... I don't remember anything, I swear...
I leave these open. Maybe something comes back to you.
I always wanted to do that. I saw it in a movie.
What about me?
My men think you died and floated away in the Seine. If I wanted to, I could let them believe that. But that would be illegal...
In Paris we have an expression for people like you: Encul d'Americain.
Yeah? In New York we got an expression too. Goes like this...
Where's the ADM? Where did your uncle put it?
Man, I don't know what the fuck you're talking about.
Bullshit! Your uncle told you!
My uncle's in a coma you moron!
Before the coma!
He didn't tell me anything. All he said was Saint Severin...
Saint Severin? The church? So you know all about the ADM! Where is it! Tell me! Tell me or else!
Or else what? You'll kill me?
No. But I'll kill your fucking girlfriend!
You'll never get the chance.
Don't be an idiot! I'm not the only one. If I die, Serafine dies!
Bullshit! You're bluffing!
What, you think Claude hangs out underground cause he likes to dance?
Claude...?
And you call me a moron...
The ADM. Let's go.
Yeah, okay. Just gimme a minute to freshen up.
So, if you and the nutty professor are both werewolves, what do you want with drugs? You like seeing lots of pretty colors when you're tearing people's throats out?
If you know about the church, why ask such stupid questions?
What's the problem?
Hey, I'm new here, what do you want?
Do you think I'm an idiot?
Sure. Don't you?
Another step and he's dead!
Go ahead Serafine. Blow him away.
You bastard! God! I should've known. You wanted the cure all for yourself!
Cure!? Hahaha!
Ha. Some wonder drug...
Why isn't it doing anything!?
Nothing's happening!
Looks like he lied to you too.
Hey! You shouldn't be down there!
FOR GOD'S SAKES, LET ME OUT!!
GET ME THE FUCK OUT OF HERE!!
"Fuck"? You think I don't know this word "fuck"? Is that how you talk to policemen in America?
Okay, what the hell are you up to?
It bit me! My leg! Jesus, it's down there, shoot it! Shoot it for Christ's sakes!
There's something down there! A bear or something! A god damn monster! Beau coup teeth! Huge, Grande, with yellow eyes, all this hair, it killed Serafine! My God...
You on drugs? Huh?
No... I...
Pull over! Now!
Shit!
It's you. You should be dead in that wreck with Bazin and Racine!
Shhh! Be quiet, man! We're not alone 
Shut up! Save your stories. The only thing I want to hear is you begging for your life. I want to see you suffer, like they did. Haha! You're scared now, eh? Come on. Where's the scary monster now huh? Ha ha... We'll see who 
Oh fuck, you are his nephew...
Yeah, that's the word. And you are?
Serafine Flocquet. I work for your uncle.
You? You're Madame Flocquet? I pictured a fat lady with an apron, not  I don't know  La Femme Nikita.
Sure. I can follow that.
It's a fucking nightmare, isn't it?
Yeah. True. The cops weren't much help either. Their theory is he was moonlighting as a drug dealer or something. Make sense to you?
Police. They have their head in their asshole and they still can't find shit.
Well put. So, what exactly has uncle Terrence been up to lately?
Salots! Shitfucker!
What?
If you leave it for more than a few minutes it locks up. Now I must reboot and type a dozen fucking passwords. He was security crazy.
You must not have known him very well. He's not like that.
Hey, Sorry if I was out of line.
You were. I have work to do. The publisher wants the transcripts by Monday. Go. Make yourself at home.
Fine. My mistake. You know, I'm gonna be a writer myself some day.
Uhhuh. Good for you.
Medusa... What's this? some kind of club?
It's nothing. A stupid party. Not really a night club, it's, uh...
Like an underground club?
Yes. It's a bad place. Weird people. Strange things go on.
And who's Claude?
Professor Claude Rousel. The one your uncle was working with. He teaches cultural history.
In an underground club? I'd like to see that.
I'm serious. There's nothing for you down there. It's dangerous.
Come on. I'm from New York  the "shoot me" state. Don't wait up.
What good can you do? Why are you being so fucking stupid?
Maybe I didn't know him like you did. But he's my uncle. And I owe it to him to get some answers. It's a quest like, uh, Hemingway, the Old Man and The Sea. Except instead of an old man I'm a young man, and instead of the sea, it's a bunch of tunnels under Paris. And instead of a big fish it's... who knows? That's what I'm going to find out. Au revoir.
Wait a second, are you like the Steven King of France or something...
Andy!
So you came after all. Just in time, it's getting interesting.
You must get out of here. It's not safe.
Andy! Holy shit!
Serafine...?
Thank God! What a relief! I thought... After you disappeared... I couldn't find you... I thought all sorts of horrible things...
Yeah... Ditto. I saw, er, I thought I saw you get munched... like Uncle Terrence...
What happened? Did you cut yourself?
Um... sort of... Maybe... It's all kind of blurry. We met at the club, then... Damn, that was some weird shit.
You have to be a hero. All Americans think they are cowboys.
I was an Indian, actually. Man, that damn psycho paint...! If that's supposed to be mild, I don't want to know about medium. The planet earth. It's good to be back.
So... you feel okay now?
Fanfuckingtastic?
Hey, what more could I want? I survived my first and last hallucinogenic hellride, and neither of us is dead. I'd say I feel almost as great as you look.
Come on Serafine. Let's go out. Show me the real Paris, the part that isn't overpriced and overrun with German tourists.
Go to Jim Morrison's grave at Pere Lachaise. It's overrun with American tourists. I have to work.
I know! Let's go hock loogies off the Eiffel Tower!
What about food? Even beautiful women have to eat. It's true. I read it. Please? A half an hour? My treat? Pleez! Don't make go out there alone again! I'm begging you!
Okay. But I'm back in half an hour.
What about your glasses?
It's okay. I can see fine.
Don't you want to change?
Man! Our first date and already you're trying to get me to change! You French women work quick!
Shit! You bought enough pate for a fucking army!
So tell me, exactly which truck driver did you study English with?
Like I should talk. Monsieur footin themouth. I'm really sorry about that whole Woody Allen thing...
So's Woody Allen. No, your uncle really helped me. I was sort of messed up for a while. Wasting my time just partying and... just stupid shit. He kind of woke me up, gave me a job, got me taking classes. You know, he and Claude, their work is controversial, but they're serious about it. Totally dedicated.
That's what counts. If you're not passionate about it, don't waste your time. That's why I quit college... Plus I'm a lazy bastard. Wait, I know this... A votre sante.
A la votre.
This looks familiar...
Ahh, Rodin. Mmm! He's the fuc I mean, he's the best. You must go to the Rodin sculpture garden, in the huitieme, it's so beautiful.
Serafine...
I'll be right back. Stay put.
Fixing your makeup with a phone, huh? Who the fuck are you calling?
Professor Roussel. There's something wrong with you. I know it.
Roussel? You mean Claude? You're calling Dr. Demento so he can come paint my face again? Fuck that.
Hello?
Are you okay?
No, I don't think so... I was having a nightmare. Wait a second...
Where did you go last night? What did you do?
I don't... I... I can't remember...
Listen, I'm coming over. Don't go anywhere. Stay right there.
I'm not alright. We both know that. The only reason I'm here now is to warn you. You're still in danger. Gaston told me that Claude has got the curse too. He's a werewolf.
I know. He told me.
What?! He told you? When?
You two faced bastard. I knew you were full of shit.
Andy! No!
Because, Andy. It's a cure.
A cure?
Andy... I should never have let you go underground. I'm sorry...
I had to be a damn Hemingway hero. Well I'll tell ya, the old man and the sea didn't go through half this shit.
What makes you so sure this will work?
I told you. He already tried to contact me once. If you saw his face... He was desperate to tell me something. I owe him this.
I don't know...
Listen, either he wastes away as a pathetic vegetable or he can give what's left of his life to save hundreds of potential victims. He's a McDermott. I know what his choice would be.
I suppose you're right. But I still don't like it.
They're coming!
Shit. What have I done? Stall them! I'll meet you out back.
I saw him. Just before those bastards zapped him back. The ADM is in the wine cellar, in a bottle of Chateau Margaux.
I didn't know he had a wine cellar.
Guess that's why he hid it there. Let's go.
Are you crazy!?
Before Hemingway, there was Starsky and Hutch.
What the fuck!? You too!?
I... I didn't think you would... I'm sorry... I believed that sonofa bitch...
I hope they fucking fry us all.
Yeah. French fries...
Holy mother of God...
Fuck me...
Andy?... What? What is it? Andy... are you okay?
It was you... That night in the tunnels. You. You did this to me.
No I.... Andy, you can't be sure.
That's the scar where I stabbed you! Oh God... You deliberately took me down there so you could... God, I can't believe it!
You made me go there. I tried to stop you! You wouldn't listen!
What was I? Your idea of a fuckin' hors d'oeuvre? Huh?
Shut up! You fucking shut up! What do you want? Huh? What the hell do you want?
Here! Come on! Do it! Go ahead.
What...?
You know what. Kill me. Cut out my fucking heart. Go on! Do it!
We don't both have to die.
I couldn't do it. Not to you.
We can't stop him. Not now. Handcuffed, with no kind of weapons. Please Andy...
No. We have to try. We'll figure something out. And if midnight comes before we can get to him, well, then we go together. Deal? Shake a paw?
I know where he'll go.
Where?
Somewhere where there are no police, and plenty to eat.
Didn't even have to ask.
All your weapons, on the floor! Now!
No wonder he let her go.
Really.
God. I can't believe it.
What?
It's making me hungry.
What does it say?
"Stop! Beyond this passage lie the catacombs of Paris: the exclusive domain of the dead."
Whoa...
After the revolution, the Paris cemeteries overflowed. They dug up all the old bodies and brought them here. Seven million people. Mostly very poor.
Pretty stylish digs for a bunch of paupers.
Well, they are French.
Right.
These tunnels must loop around and connect.
Let's go from both ends. We'll cut him off.
Okay. Be careful.
You too.
Oh God. Shit...
Andy...
Actually, I'm waiting for someone.
What a coincidence, I am someone! Mmm. Calvin Klein's Obsession. Now it's mine too.
God. How can you eat like that?
It's all in the tongue. Another bottle?
Wow. You know Kung Fu or something?
Yeah. Apparently.
Ha ha. You were probably right about his mom.
Hope I didn't hurt him too bad.
Who gives a shit? I've had it up to here with arrogant Frenchmen.
Up to there? Really? I bet I could beat that.
Ha ha! Yeah right, white boy! Ha Ha ha. I think maybe I drank too much.
Ah. The mating call of the blonde. The night is young, the moon is bright, whataya feel like doing tonight?
I don't know... Surprise me.
Ahh! Jesus! You're burning hot! What the hell 
AHHHHHHH!
Thanks for the lovely evening, shithead!
Aaaaa! Jesus! This isn't happening. I'm still hallucinating. Shit!
Face it boyfriend. This is really happening.
No it isn't! You're dead!
Okay... dead or undead... what do you want from me?
Aduh... You're a werewolf. And we, as your victims, have to walk the earth until your curse is lifted.
Uh huh... And, supposing I believed that, what could I do about it?
Look, I didn't mean to hurt anybody... God, I didn't mean to... to...
Rip my face off? Hey, we all make mistakes. Hell, I didn't mean to sleep with you on the first night, especially without a condom. But I did, and now I'm paying the price.
Hey, you can't kick me! You're an apparition!
What, all of a sudden you got a degree in supernatural law?
Haha!
Oh, big man. You can beat up a couple of cadavers. Well let me make something real clear, asshole. If you don't kill yourself, at midnight tonight you're gonna transform and murder innocent people!
Hanging is nice. Never goes out of style. What about harekare  a taste of the Orient? But no! You're in Paris! Try the Guillotine! There's one in the Louvre!
I'd use pills. They're painless.
Oh give me a break! He could use pills back in America! Why not get a little culture?
Let's face it. It's a, how do you say... motherfucker. But we're all in it together. That's why we're trying to help you.
Exactly.
Merde! Just missed!
Uhh! Would you die already!
Geez, I feel bad for him. Maybe we should've told him abou 
Are you crazy!? You know that's totally impractical. Besides, like the Bible says... An eye for an eye...
Look, the more you think about it, the harder it is.
Just like sex with my wife.
The key is don't look down.
Also like sex with my wife.
Would you shut up?
Tell you what, we'll jump together.
Sure. We wouldn't ask you to do anything we wouldn't do. Now give me your hand... that's it...
Merde! I can't believe this!
You try to be a good sport, and look what happens.
I mean, if by some miracle you can find the werewolf that bit you, and then manage to eat it's heart, the curse is lifted. I was gonna tell you but Marcel wouldn't let me.
Oh sure, it was all mean old Marcel's idea. Give me a break! We didn't tell you because it's a wild goose chase! Not to mention disgusting. Look...
Either way works for us...
But you better hurry.
God, I can't believe there are so many cool people at this party.
Yep.
Here, babe.
Thanks.
Really?
Uh huh.
I don't know if I want to be doing this.
Doing what?
You know. If we hook up, tomorrow I'll just be some girl you go telling all your friends about.
No way.
NOVA!!
Stifler!!
You coming to party tonight, Ostreicher, ya fuckface?
Depends if my date wants to stop by.
That junior chick?
Nah, gave her the Heisman. I'm working on something new.
Yeah right. I got an idea for something new. How 'bout you guys actually locate your dicks, remove the shrink wrap, and fuckin' use 'em.
Dude, it's gotta happen  she's a college chick!
Bullshit. From where?
She works parttime at my dad's store.
Hah! Yeah, Oz, I bet it's more like your dad works at <u>her</u> store.
Dude, he does not.
You actually said that?! Haaaah!!
Shut the fuck up.
I think you need your balls reattached.
Keep it down, dude.
What the fuck are you doing here?
This place is an untapped resource. Check it out, dude, these vocal jazz girls are <u>hot</u>.
You dipshit, you're expecting to score with some goodygoody choirgirl priss?
Dude, watch me work. They go for sensitive studs like me.
<u>Yeah</u>!
Well, just don't expect Oz to pay for the limo.
Stifler, fuck  ...man, you don't have to be so insensitive.
Hey, you know, what can I say, I dig those cute little sweaters she wears.
I'll bet you do, you little horndog, she's givin' you fuckin' stiffies, right?
Oh my fucking God. You're gay.
Come on, you know the words, sing along.
No thanks, you've been singing that shit all week. If you try that at MSU this Saturday, I'm pretending I don't know you.
Our last game is this Saturday.
No shit.
Then she said  she loves me.
Oh shit dude, the Lword!
You ever hear of something called The Bible?
Once, in church, dude.
Dude, I wish you wouldn't do that.
You got something up your sleeve for tonight, Finch?
And little hurlyburly came by in her curlywurly, and asked me if I needed I rihide 
How the hell do you know all these random songs?
It's early Springsteen, dude, this is classic. This was before the cheesy remake.
Contact, dude.
Then where does a blowjob figure in?
Feeling better, Oz?
I'm such a loser.
That's the spirit.
I put in months of quality time with Vicky. Sherman meets a chick for one night and scores? This is just wrong.
No shit, I'm never gonna get laid. How the hell am I gonna become this Mr. Sensitive Man?
Dude, it's not like I haven't been trying to get laid.
This is different. This is better. Think of when you're working out, Oz. You need a partner, someone to spot you. Someone to keep you motivated.
The Shalin masters from east and west must unite!
Guys, guys  you're ruining my fucking moment here. Now think about it 
So, I'm thinking prom is basically our last big chance.
Dude, prom sucks.
I know, but think about it  At the parties that night. Chicks are gonna want to do it.
So does your tongue cramp up?
Nah, you get kind of dizzy though.
What reputation?
Observe.
Okay, explain.
I can't, I have no idea how he's doing it. And that leaves you trailing, Jim. You gotta get your act together.
Dammit, Kevin, what's with the attitude?
Attitude? Me? I think that <u>you</u> guys should be more enthusiastic. Shit, we've been trying to get laid forever, and tonight's the night we've been waiting for. We're in this together. Don't back out on me now!
Kevin, it was just a 
<u>It was a pact</u>. You break it and there are no excuses. You guys have to 
...Guess what?
I don't care.
And by the way, Sherman didn't even get laid.
He didn't?
I guess we'll call you twoply.
Yeah. So you want double condiments on that?
Wow. You two really have something going, don't you?
I think we're falling in love.
Yeah, but we'll still see each other.
Fuck yeah we will.
You called me to ask me how to get laid?
What was I gonna do, call dad? I don't even know his number.
Just dial 976Asshole.
Yeah, well anyway...I thought you might have some advice, brother to brother. I mean, I think tonight she might, we might really, there's a chance that  you know.
Have you ever heard of the bible?
What? Not <u>the</u> Bible?
Well, that's not really the name, but we always called it that.
Does it tell me how to get laid?
You know what, nevermind. You're not ready.
Ready for what?
Whoop, you're fading out. Good luck at that party.
Say that again, Kevin?
Uh...I thought you might know a trick or something. To make her, you know...
Try the spicy tuna hand roll.
What?! How do I do that?
Uh  forget that. Look, is that all you're interested in? Ways to get your girlfriend into bed?
Well, no. I think...I guess it would be good to be able to return the favor. I mean, it would be nice to know she enjoys things as much as I do.
That's good, that's what I needed to hear. Now you qualify.
Qualify for what?
You've just inherited The Bible.
Hey. I got another question for you.
What's that?
It's a big, thick envelope, Vicky. You got in.
You think so?
"Dear Ms. Hughes. We're sorry, but after keeping you on the wait list for the past couple months, we've decided you are now rejected. Enclosed is a 100page, fullcolor brochure on how rejected you are."
Kevin, this is serious!
You got in.
Oh, Kev.
Vicky  do you think, maybe...it's time for us to take the next step in our relationship?
Tonight?
Yeah, it's such a perfect evening. Isn't this how you've always pictured it?
Let me know.
Okay, don't stop.
Vicky, wait.
Not for you.
I was being selfish. And majorly insensitive. And I'm a total idiot.
I think "shithead" really says it.
Yes! I'm a shithead! I'm a complete and total shithead!
And I want to try to make it up to you.
How?
Oh...ungghhhhh!
Shhhh. Your parents are downstairs.
Oh Kevin  don't stop!
Just a second!
You're not doing the extra credit problems.
No, I'm not. I'm writing a sequence of random numbers that look like I'm doing the extra credit problems. Mr. Bender doesn't bother to check homework past April.
That's my trick!
It's everyone's trick, Kevin. But I did pick it up from you.
We've come a long way since Homecoming.
Yeah, we have. You corrupted my four point into a threeninefive.
Indeed I did. But, our relationship. It's progressed a lot. It's time for us to...express ourselves in new ways.
Like how?
Well, I feel that...things are getting to that point in a relationship. When two people share...a special moment between them.
I think you're so right, Kevin.
You want to do it?
Yes 
Kevin? Do you not love me?
No, I don't not love you. I like, I know that we've definitely got <u>something</u> between us. Something good. Something special.
But you don't love me.
I didn't say that. I mean, love, it's like a term that gets thrown around. People say things, they get married, have kids, and then what? It's like they call it off, going "I was wrong."
Kevin...you're not your dad. The two of us, we're not your parents.
I know, Vick. I'm just not ready yet, okay?
Okay.
Hey...
Did you know that it's...450 miles from Ann Arbor to Nashville?
It's like a six or seven hour drive. That's easy, I don't mind driving.
About the other day...I've been thinking.
So have I. And I know you want to make things perfect for me. And I understand that you really wouldn't tell me that until you were 100% comfortable with it.
And I want to make things perfect for you. You're right, Kev, we do have something good...and special.
Yeah, we have something great, Vick.
Kevin... I want to have sex with you.
Now?!
No...I know the perfect time...
See  this is the nicest room.
Wow, Kev...it's perfect.
You comfortable?
Yeah, are you?
Yeah.
You sure you're comfortable?
Yeah. Are you sure?
Yeah.
Me too.
Okay. Did you bring a condom?
Yeah, right here.
So, do you want to be  I mean, how do you want to do it?
I don't know. How do you?
Like, normal style. The...missionary position.
Okay.
Yeah Vick?
I want to hear you say it.
Okay.
Victoria...I love you.
I love you.
That was a great night.
Yeah.
I can't believe we just had our senior prom.
Yeah, the time went by so fast.
It did.
Kevin, next year...with you in Ann Arbor, and me in Nashville...it's not gonna work, is it.
Don't say that, we can do it somehow. It might not be perfect, but 
No, Kevin  That's the whole thing, that's what I've been realizing. That nothing's perfect, that you can't plan everything.
Vicky...last night...I wasn't lying.
I know. Let's go. Don't you have something to tell your friends?
What?
Your little pact. Jessica told me all about it. Way to go, Kev!
Stifler, you're such an asshole.
Meyers, what's the deal with you and Vicky, anyway? You've been going out since Homecoming and all she'll do is blow you? Shit, I'd drop her like a steaming turd.
SUCK ME, BEAUTIFUL!
God dammit, Stifler!
Checkout time! Please vacate the room.
Holee shit.
This just got a hell of a lot better.
Kevin! You seen Shitbreak lately?
Oh no, Stifler, what did you do?
Me? Nothing. I'm the one whose ass he kicked. I'll tell you one thing, though. I don't think he's gonna have a problem shitting in school anymore.
Yes.
I thought so.
No...you...go...ahead.
Okay.
You are very good in the world history class, yes?
Me?
Yes. No. Yes.
Perhaps you can help me with my studies?
Okay...that would be cool sometime. How 'bout tomorrow?
Well, I do have ballet practice. Perhaps I can come by your house afterwards. I can change clothes at your place?
I suppose that would be okay.
So you need to change, right?
Do you mind? This fabric is so uncomfortable.
James! You have come in here on purpose?!
Well...uh...
Shame on you!
Uh...yeah...sorry.
Well. You have seen me. Now it is my turn to see you. Strip.
Strip?
Yes, slowly.
You mean like, <u>strip</u> strip?
For me?
Uh...
Move with the music.
Um...okay...
No, no, you must put your whole body into it.
Nadia, I can't 
Can't what? Do you not want to be with me? I wish to be entertained, James.
Jim...
Oh no.
You are done, James. Perhaps I should be going now.
No, no, I'm not done! I've got reserves! Nadia, please please please. I'm begging you.
Did you see this? This is your more exotic dirty magazine.
Yes...James, it is knowing that these beautiful women arouse you that arouses me...
Oh yes. Very arousing women. They arouse me very much. But not as arousing as you.
No, not again.
I am sorry, Jim. I suppose we will not be doing any studying now.
No! I've got...reserve reserves!
What's up, fellas?
Hey Sherman. Scopin' the babes.
Indeed. Some fine ladies here, boys. Confidence is high, repeat, confidence is high. Sherman is moving to DefCon Two, full strategic arsenal ready for deployment.
You've got something going?
Did you see that Central chick? Brunette?
You did it.
Fellas, say goodbye to Chuck Sherman, the boy. I am now a man.
Illegal channels? Shit, if there's any channel that should be illegal, it's whatever that women's channel is. Lifetime Supply of Pantyhose, or some shit.
Yeah  hey, did you see The Little Mermaid on TV the other night? That Ariel, whew.
She's a mermaid, dude.
Yeah, Oz, but not when she's on land.
She's a <u>cartoon</u>, dude.
A <u>hot</u> cartoon.
Is there anything you don't jerk off to?
CSpan?
You guys got the Latin homework?
No  Kevin, you?
Ooh, here's an easy one: "Attractive SWF, fun loving and a youthful mind seeks outgoing companion." Okay..."Attractive"...ugly.
"Fun loving"  insane.
This was remade? Into what?
Blihinded by the light  cut loose like a deuce, another runner in the night, blinded...
Who cares?
Nadia does, that Czechoslovakian chick, she might be there tonight. Now, do you think she'd prefer  Cool Hip Jim... or Laid Back Jim?
Shortstop. 'Course, you don't make it to third, and you're out.
So let's say you get there...what's uh, third base feel like?
Feels like warm apple pie, dude.
Apple pie... McDonald's or homemade?
Hey, you did better than I did, Nova.
Oh that's really reassuring. And don't call me Nova anymore. I'm a fraud.
Hey guys, you came to watch me in action?
Yeah, I think you sounded pretty good.
You can do that?
Oh  no way. I can't do that to her.
You've still got a chance with Nadia, right?
No. Her sponsors here saw the thing on the net. I don't think they liked it.
I still think you're okay.
So do I, Kev.
There it is. I want to grab my bag. Oh, and my date.
Come on, Kevin. Vicky's looking for you.
I'll just say that we had a great night together.
Hang in there, buddy, you'll get there.
I know.
It's true. I mean, after this, everything'll be different.
After getting laid?
After high school.
Hold on. You have no idea why I'm angry?
Is it because we have a test tomorrow? Sometimes I get cranky when I know I have a big test to study for.
Yeah, that's pretty much it.
I thought so. Because, one time? I was at this 
What was your name again?
Michelle.
Okay. Michelle, do you want to be my date for the prom?
Really? You seriously want to go with me?
Yes. Seriously.
Are we going to Steve Stifler's party afterwards? That would be so cool.
Whatever you want.
Cool! We're gonna have so much fun! It's like this one time, at band camp...
You know, at band camp? We have dances like this. Only they're way funner. Don't you think prom is just highly overrated?
Highly, highly overrated.
Stifler's mom got it in the divorce.
It reminds me of this one time  Hey, can I ask you a question? How come you don't have any stories? I've got lots of stories, and you don't have any.
Oh, I've got stories, believe me. They're a little more risque than tales of Band Camp.
Are they gross or something, like guy stuff? Tell me.
Okay. You want a story? Here's a story. Stifler finds this beer, right? And...
That is a <u>nasty</u> story!
I told you.
You wanna hear a nasty story of mine? It's kind of sexual.
Yeah, bring it on!
Well, this one time? At band camp? We were playing this game, I don't know if you know it? But it's called spin the bottle? And I had to kiss this guy named Marc Wander on the lips? And...
So, the end of the story is...you had to kiss the guy for twenty seconds?
Yes! And he was such a dork! And everyone laughed at me, but I didn't care? Because it was so funny!
Okay, I get it.
Oh! And then this one time? At band camp? I stuck a flute in my pussy.
...excuse me?!
What, you think I don't know how to get myself off? Hell, that's what half of band camp is! Sex ed!
This'll do.
Now, I have two rubbers. Wear them both, it'll desensitize you. I don't want you coming so damn early.
Why, uh, what makes you think that I 
Come on. I saw you on the net. Why do you think I accepted this date? You're a sure thing!
Are you gonna do what I think you're gonna do?
Don't you want me to?
Oh yeah! Put it in your mouth!
Okay!
What the heck is this?
Nothing!
Can I come in?
Yeah, sure.
You're not...busy?
Dad, come in.
Okay.
These are for you. From father to son.
I know, Dad.
Oh, okay. Here's let me show you.
Dad! I know!
Do you know about the clitoris?
Yes dad.
Sometimes it can be pretty hard to locate.
Thank you, dad, I got it.
Okay, well that about covers it.
Jim?
It's not what it looks like!
Dad, please stop. Please. I'm sure I know what you're talking about.
Sure you know, son, but I think you've been having a little problem with it. It's okay, though. What you're doing is perfectly normal. It's like practice. Like when you play tennis against a wall. Some day, there'll be a partner returning the ball. You do want a partner, don't you son?
Yes.
That's great. Now remember, it's <u>okay</u> to play with yourself. Or, as I always called it  "Stroke the salami!" Hoho, Jim. There's nothing to be ashamed of. Hell, I'm fiftytwo, and I still enjoy masturbating. Uncle Mort masturbates. We <u>all</u> masturbate.
Son. This lady's here for you.
I know. Hey Nadia.
Dad.
Oh, no, not too much of a bookworm. He's a good little kid. Er, guy. Man.
Dad!!
Okay, okay. I'll let you hit those books.
And you said...
Nothing, I just hugged her back.
You think she was serious?
I couldn't tell  She could've meant like, "I love you grandma" or "I love you Vanderbilt."
There's our man.
Finch, you got the Latin homework?
Unlisted age, plus "youthful mind," equals old.
No, "Charming" is old. "Older" is <u>really</u> old. "Youthful mind" is dead.
Alright...I'm shooting for a nine o'clock ETA. Beer in hand by five after.
You can crash at Stifler's?
It's all good. Breath check.
At least now I know what the hell they're saying.
So, does my hair look better  like this, or... like this?
What about you? You're the one with the girlfriend and you're still stranded on third base.
You know, I've never got that shit. What exactly constitutes third base?
Gotta go.
But 
Ow, what the hell?
Sorry, I thought you were dead.
Like a bet?
No, a <u>pact</u>. No money involved. This is more important than any bet. Now here's the deal: We all get laid before we graduate.
That's what we are, we keep each other on track. Prior to this day, we've postured. We've procrastinated. We've pretended. We've  well I can't think of other pwords, but we've probably done them too.
Pontificated.
Separately, we are flawed and vulnerable. But together, we are the masters of our sexual destiny!
Their tigerstyle kungfu is strong; but our dragon style will defeat it!
Yeah, it's like tradition or something.
Right. That gives us...
Exactly three weeks to the day.
I have no idea. Finch showers in a bathing suit.
No  it's true. He is...really... big.
Yeah, enormous.
Hey, where's Finch?
Went home to shit.
I don't get it. How does a guy like that get this sudden reputation?
You can send me the address too.
Well...dammit, if I'm doing this, how the hell am I gonna watch?
I'll save you a seat.
Did I miss anything?!
Just in time.
But, but  what would I do?
Anything! Just tell her it looks like she needs an extra hand or something.
That's stupid.
No, you're stupid. Get going! Right now! She's primed!
Oh...oh...oh, shit!
Oh boy oh God oh crap oh no.
Come on, Jim. Where are you?
Please, God. Let this be it.
He's going in!
Holy shit.
Holy shit!
Hey, minuteman.
Shut up. You're supposed to be supportive.
How do you know that?
She's already on a plane back home.
Yeah? Well come prom night, those excuses aren't going to do you much good.
Jesus, Kevin, rub it in.
Yeeeeeeeaaaawwwwww!
You fuckin' rule!
Alright, how do you guys stand? Well, Finch, I know where you are, but you can't use that as an excuse. Jim?
My date's a flutetoting band dork. That answer your question?
Oz, how about you and Heather? Now you guys are a couple or something?
Back out? You don't need <u>us</u> to get laid. You afraid or something?
No, but come on guys, we made a pact!
Kevin, come on, the bus to Stifler's is gonna be here soon.
I'm not going.
No, no that's fine. So you doing okay?
Yeah.
Oooh, yeah. Oh, baby, you're so good.
Yeah, I'm the best, baby.
Give it to me! Yes!
Oh yeah, baby, I'll give it to you.
Don't you love my sexy body?!
I do, baby, I do.
You're so big!
Yeah, that's right.
Fuck me! Yes!
Uh...
Ah, you'll get her back soon enough. That's easy, she likes you. What you need to do is learn to press a girl's buttons. You gotta give her what she's never had.
What?
I'll give you a hint. "Ohhh, yeah, yeah!" Comprende?
You mean...and orgasm?
You got it, stud.
Well...I'm pretty sure I've 
No you haven't.
But that one time 
No.
Well of course I'd want to give her that. I mean, what do you think, I don't care about her?
Do you?
Of course.
Do you love her?
I  I don't know, you can't ask me that.
Well, if you want to get her in the sack, tell her you love her. That's how I was duped.
I don't want to dupe her, Jessica. If I say it, I have to be sure I mean it.
Well it's up to you. The Big L, or the Big O.
No comment.
No comment?! Are you kidding me?! I've never seen someone's image change so...so drastically!
Thanks. It was my idea.
Did you guys hook up or something?
Are you kidding? No.
Then what the hell are you talking about?
Well...I guess it's okay for me to tell you now. That reputation of his isn't going anywhere. Finch comes to me and says, "Jessica, I need help with this, blah blah, etcetera." So I told him, pay me two hundred bucks, and I'll tell a couple girls that you're dynamite in bed. So he did, and I did.
I don't get it, that really works?
Duh. Of course. Naturally, I embellished a little bit. Hey, did you hear that Finch had sex with an older woman?
Vanderbilt's not that far from U of M.
Yeah right.
What? We both have cars.
Yeah but, no offense, you're talking about a posthigh school, long distance relationship, and you and Kevin haven't even done it yet.
That's not why we're going out.
What the hell are you expecting him to drive to Vanderbilt for? Milk and cookies?
Jessica! He'll drive there for me, and I'll drive to Ann Arbor for him. We're going to have sex when he's ready and I'm ready. It's got to be completely perfect. I want the right place, the right time, the right moment.
Vicky, it's not a space shuttle launch, it's sex. So did you do the physics writeup?
Please.
He likes it.
Of course he does. What about you? Have you just never had one with Kevin  or have you never had one, period?
I think I've had one.
Well that's a no. No wonder you're not psyched about sex. You've never even had one manually?
...I've never tried it.
Are you kidding? You've never double clicked your mouse?
Jessica, can you drive me home?
Sure.
Not bad, Chris.
Really? Hey, thanks  Heather, right?
Yeah...so...you've got this sort of... Bobby McFerrin thing going there.
Yeah. Right, uhhuh. I feel like I've discovered this whole new side of me. Music is so expressive.
Okay. I mean, I agree, but...aren't you supposed to be out, like, trying to decapitate someone with your lacrosse stick or something?
Oh sure. I know what people think. It's like, Oz, he's just this kickass lacrosse player  I also play football, by the way  But that's like...not <u>all</u> that I am.
Of course, I didn't 
I mean it really bothers me when people try to pigeonhole me like that.
You? You think I don't get that? God, it's like just because I don't get drunk and barf every weekend, people say "Oh, here's this goodytwo shoes choirgirl priss."
Yeah...so like, what else <u>do</u> you do?
Well the same things you do. Hang out with friends and stuff, you know, whatever. What do you think I do?
I just  realized that I didn't know anything about you. I was interested.
Oh...well that's okay. Cool.
Hey, what're you doing here?
Just enjoying my exhilarating first lacrosse experience. You like, "kicked butt."
Um...Chris 
You can call me Oz.
Do I have to?
You can call me Ostreicher.
What's your middle name?
Forget it.
Come on! I won't tell.
Neither will I.
Okay. So I had this...thought, and...this may seem like it's out of left field, and I don't know if you can, but since I'm not going with anyone 
Alright, cool. I gotta hit the showers, but...I think this'll be really good.
Yeah, me too, okay, cool.
Nice car.
I'm glad you think so.
You don't like it?
No, I like the car. By the way, though, about prom? That was like a bad idea. Sorry I invited you.
What?!
Oh, please. I asked you because I thought you might actually be worth going with. But you are just a jock. No wait. You're a jerk.
What? No I'm not.
I saw you making fun of me with your lacrosse buddies.
I wasn't making fun of you.
Give me a break, you're so full of it.
Why are you doing this?
Because I want to.
Yeah? Well you can't fake your way through this. You better practice.
Hi...
How did you know I was here?
Stifler told me.
You talked to Stifler?
Well...I needed to find you. We are gonna have to practice that song.
...okay. Cool then. I'm um, I'm glad you came by. I mean, really.
Uh...my dad's the manager.
Really? Cool. Tell him his subs are great.
Ah, he's always too heavy on the vinegar. If you really want a good one, you gotta let me make it.
My dad's always here running the store, busy and stuff...and I fill in once a week so he can get a night off.
That's nice.
So you're going to Michigan?
Yeah, well my parents wanted me to go to Northwestern. I didn't want to write all those extra essays they make you do  I mean, how am I supposed to know what my "most emotionally significant moment" was? So when my U of M acceptance came in December, I said the hell with it.
Onions?
What?
You want onions?
Oh, yeah. So what're you gonna major in?
Well, State's got a good business school. And I can probably walk onto the lacrosse team. Green peppers?
Yeah. So wow, you've got it figured out.
Well, I mean, business is okay, and lacrosse is awesome, but what am I gonna be, a pro lacrosse player? I really have no idea.
Oh thank God, I thought I was the only one.
Well, you're not. Oil and vinegar?
Yeah. You know, people are always like, "What're you gonna major in?" And I don't know. And they're like, "You'll figure it out." Yeah? When?
I know. Salt and pepper?
Sure.
So we're gonna be close next year?
You  oh, you mean  yeah, East Lansing and Ann Arbor.
...yeah.
...I've got this lacrosse game. It's really important, it's our last game. And you know, Central almost beat us last time, so I really want to kick their ass, and it's like cool because we're gonna get to play at State, which means that after the game I might be able to stop by...
You can't sing at the competition.
I'm sorry, I totally spaced. I just...I didn't realize it...
...it's okay, you should do whatever makes you happy.
Alright...yeah...thanks for understanding. So I guess...I'll see you later.
What about the game?!
I'm not playing.
You're missing the game for us?!
No. I'm missing the game for you.
There's something I've been meaning to tell you, Heather.
What's that?
It's gonna sound really bad, but I want you to know.
This isn't the best way to proposition me.
No, that's not what I mean. I mean  look. You know what made me leave that game? Coach was giving this speech, about not slacking off when you see the opportunity to score.
This isn't any better, Chris.
No, see Heather, what I realized is that...with you, it's not like I'm running towards the goal, trying to figure out the best way to score. And this may sound corny, but 
Oz, it's okay, I know.
You called me Oz.
Well, that's what your friends call you. I mean...I feel like I'm one of your friends now...and also...your girlfriend.
Hmm. You know that's really a shitty middle name!
I know, it sucks!
I can't think of anything to say that's not cheesy.
Then don't.
This is your plan, Finch?
Yep.
This. Right now.
Uhhuh.
Of course, Finch. What?
Whatever you hear about me, you agree.
What are we gonna hear?
You'll see. Gotta go. Sixteen minute round trip.
You know, Jim...you could go back there...and...
Seduce her.
What do you suppose they're saying?
No idea.
Finch! Get to the bathroom! Now!
Easy, tiger. What's in there?
Just go!
Why is this?
You're gonna shit your pants!
Charming.
Finch, listen  Stifler slipped some sort of laxative in your Mocashchino or whatever. It's fast acting. I mean <u>really</u> fast.
First of all, it's <u>Mocha</u>ccino, and secondly...Oohhhh!
Me too. For the most part.
Nah. Fuck, you guys are right, I don't know what I'm doing. I mean I'm acting like I've got it all together tonight. But I know Vicky is gonna ask me if I love her. And I don't know what I'm gonna say. So now it's like, maybe I'll just wimp out on the whole thing.
I'll tell you, I've learned one thing: women, like wine, get better with age. Of course, I have no frame of reference for this comparison.
So Oz, you almost made it, huh?
Ah, Stifler's mom! Thank you for letting us have a great party.
As if there were any alternative in the matter. Are you enjoying yourself?
I'm three sheets to the wind, ma'am!
I'm so happy for you. Takes the edge off, doesn't it? And where might your date be?
Oh no, no date. Bathroom incident.
Pardon me?
...Nevermind. You have anything to drink?
I believe the kegs are upstairs.
No, no, that's what the cretins drink. I mean alcohol, liquor  good stuff.
All right, I got some scotch.
Single malt?
Aged eighteen years. Why don't you get the glasses. Behind the bar.
So...would you object if I said you're quite striking?
Mister Finch  are you trying to seduce me?
Yes ma'am, I am.
I had no idea you'd be this good!
Neither did I!
Perhaps you should consider actually answering an ad.
Finch, you can be the one to date a nearlydead insane chick. Eat your damn imitation hot dog.
This is no imitation. Removing the hot dog from the Ultradog yields a better dog. Behold  Ultradog, no dog.
Good morning gentleman.
Finch! Where were you last night? What happened to the foolproof plan?
I thought a fashionably late entrance would enhance my appearance. When I got here, the Bacchanalia was over and the nymphs had left.
You're just gonna sit there and drink your coffee?
Mochaccino. Actually, in the spirit of the pact, I do need to ask for your cooperation in one small matter.
Finch, don't you think it's about time you learned to take a dump at school?
When was the last time you looked at the facilities here?
Great evening, isn't it?
Sure.
There's something about the spring that's just cool. Like the smell of fresh rain or something.
What did you just say?
Suck me...beautiful?
Uh...you know, my friends call me Nova  as in Casanova.
You need some work, buddy!
Look, Chris. There are just some things you need to learn, that's all.
Like what?
Alright, well...you've got to tone it down. You don't need to go to Lookout Point and spout cheeseball lines to be romantic.
...okay...
You have to pay attention to a girl. Be sensitive to her feelings. Relationships are reciprocal.
I'm not good in math.
Good work, Ostreicher.
Thanks coach.
You're a killer, Ozzy!
 Thanks, coach 
Christ! I didn't say you were out of the game!
Sorry, coach.
What the fuck is this? You got someplace more important to be?
What the hell was that?
Sorry.
No, it was good.
Oh, well... It came from the heart.
Well then keep it coming. Alright, people, good work! Keep it up and we'll do great at the state competition.
I'll do it.
Okay then. The rest of you okay with that?
Hi. I'm Bob Woodward of the Washington Post and I hate to bother you at home
I already get the Post. I don't need another subscription.
No, I'm a reporter. I wanted to talk to you about the Committee to Re Elect.
The what to what?
You work there, Miss Abbott.
I'm not Miss Abbott.
Mr. Sloan?
My wife told me to expect you. As you know, I haven't talked to the press.
I'd like to talk to you, I really would, but my lawyers say I shouldn't until after the Watergate trial.
You handed out the money. Maybe there's a legitimate explanation for the way it was done
Does "they" mean the White House?
As opposed to the Committee? The Committee's not an independent operation. Everything is cleared with the White House. I don't think that the FBI or the prosecutors understand that.
The report on the cash in Maurice Stans' safe, the three hundred fifty thousand, that's true?
No. It was closer to seven hundred thousand.
And as treasurer, you could release those funds?
When so ordered.
We're not sure we've got all the guys who could order you, but we know there were five.
Colson's too smart to get directly involved with something like that.
Haldeman. Right?
I won't talk about the other two.
I can't say anything, I'm sorry.
One thing I'm not completely clear onwhen you gave out the money to Liddy, how did that work?
Badly. You don't realize how close all this came to staying undiscoveredI gave Liddy the Dahlberg check and he gave it to Barker who took it to Miami and deposited it.
Go on.
Well, when Liddy came and asked for money for what turned out to be the breakin funds, I went to the safe and gave himout of this whole fortuneI happened to give him the same hundreds he gave mebanks have to keep track of hundreds. If the money had been in fifties, or if I'd grabbed a different stack, there probably wouldn't have been any Watergate story.
A boy or a girl?
A girl. Melissa.
and it wasn't Ehrlichman or Colson or the President.
No, none of those.
look, when the Watergate grand jury questioned you, did you name names?
Of courseeverything they asked
What else have you got?
According to White House personnel, Hunt definitely works there as a consultant for Colson. But when I called the White House Press office, they said he hadn't worked there for three months. Then the P.R. guy said the weirdest thing to me. "I am convinced that neither Mr. Colson nor anyone else at the White House had any knowledge of, or participation in, this deplorable incident at the Democratic National Committee."
Isn't that what you'd expect them to say?
Absolutely.
no
can we use their names?
What do you think Mrs. Graham wants to see me for?
Maybe to fire yousince you two started on this story, the Post stock has dropped, what, 50 percent? And the word is some Nixon people are challenging her TV licenses. I'm not saying she's going on relief, but I don't think it's unreasonable for her to want to meet you.
You think she wants us to ease up on the story?
I don't know, but I don't think that's unreasonable either, do you?
which Young?
Larry Young, a California lawyer
and he says Chapin hired Segretti
well and good, but when will he say it on the record.
He just did.
Anything?
Woodward's onto a new wrinkle with the breakin thingabsolute page one stuff
in other words, you got nothing, you're thumbsucking.
Could develop.
Let me see what you get, but don't jumpThe New York Times thinks it's crazy Cubans.
I can predict the next words you're gonna say: "anyone but Bernstein." I want to send a reporter to Miami.
Anyone but Bernstein.
Howard
remember Toronto, Harry.
That was awhile ago.
I don't get ityou were the one who wanted to fire him.
I know, I did, but damnit Howard For the first time since I've known him, I think he's really humping...
has any of them got an ax?
political, personal, sexual, anything at all against Mitchell?
listen, we didn't make them do these thingsonce they did, it's our job to report it
go over your sources again
listen, I love this country, you think I want to bring it down?I'm not some goddamn zany, I was a hawk
Harry, weren't you just arguing the opposite way?
maybe I'm tense
More denunciations?
One Senator just gave a speech slurring us 57 times in 20 minutes.
Where's that cheery face we've come to know and love?
You call me in on my day off because some idiots have broken into local Democratic Headquarterstell me, Harry, why should I be smiling?
As usual, that keen mind of yours has pegged the situation perfectly. Except it wasn't local Democratic Headquarters, it was National Democratic Headquarters and these weren't just any idiots, these were special idiots, seeing as when they were arrested at 2:30 this morning, they were all wearing business suits and Playtex gloves and were carrying a walkietalkie, forty rolls of film, cameras, lock picks, pensized tear gas guns, plus various bugging devices. Not to mention over two thousand dollars, mostly in sequenced hundred dollar bills.
Preliminary hearing at Superior Courthouse?
Two o'clock, work the phones 'til you go.
...go on, go on...
That's everything Bachinski had, I think it's worth following up.
Don't know; who the hell's Howard Hunt? It's probably nothing but check it out. Just go easy, it could be crazy Cubans.
OK, get on this W.House guy and do a better job then you did on McCord.
I did all right on McCord.
Then how come the Associated Press were the ones found out that Mr. McCord is security coordinator for the Committee to Reelect the President, otherwise known as CREEP?
The head of security for the reelection of a Republican President got caught bugging the national offices of the Democrats? What the hell does that mean?
Mr. John Mitchell, the head of CREEP, says it means nothing. "...This man and the other people involved were not operating on either our behalf or with our consent. These is no place in our campaign or in the electoral process for this type of activity, and we will not forget it or condone it."
You can't believe that.
As a rough rule of thumb, as far as I can throw Bronco Nagurski, that's how much I trust John Mitchell...
What'd you get on W.House?
Lotsa hints
I can't sell hints to Simons you called everyone you know? Call someone you don't know.
Who's Charles Colson?
I would liken your query to being in Russia half a century ago and asking someone, "I understand who Lenin is and Trotsky I got too, but who's this yokel Stalin?"
Who's Colson, Harry?
The most powerful man in America is President Nixon, probably you've heard his name.
The second most powerful man is Robert Haldeman. Just below him are a trio: Mr. Erlichman is Haldeman's friend, and they protect the President from everybody which is why they are referred to as either The German Shepherds or the Berlin Wall. Mr. Mitchell we've already discussed. Mr. Colson is the President's special counsel.
Thanks, Harry. Know anything about Colson?
Just that on his office wall there's a cartoon with a caption reading, "When you've got them by the balls, their hearts and minds will follow."
Whaddya got, whaddya got?
Hunt is Colson's man that's Charles Colson, Nixon's special counsel they both went to Brown University Hunt worked for the C.I.A. till '70, and this is on deep background, the FBI thinks he's involved with the breakin.
So?
I never asked them about Watergate. I only said what were Hunt's duties at the White House. They volunteered that he was innocent when nobody asked was he guilty.
I think we got a White House consultant linked to the bugging.
who you got?
well, Sloan
you are ignoring the importance of the Dahlberg repercussions
nobody gives a shit about the Dahlberg repercussions
quit equivocating, say what you mean our story got Government Accounting to start an audit on CREEP's finances
correctionwhen you were drinking your lunch at the bar of the Sans Souci
this White House guy, a good one, a pro, came up and asked what is this Watergate compulsion with you guys and I said, well, we think it's important and he said, if it's so goddamn important, who the hell are Woodward and Bernstein?
Ask him what he's really sayinghe means take the story away from Woodstein and give it to his people at the National Desk
well, I've got some pretty experienced fellas sitting around, wouldn't you say so?
absolutelyand that's all they do, sit sit sitevery once in a while, they call up a Senator, some reporting
well, what if your boys get it wrong
I'm so glad you could come, Mr.
I'm Woodward.
You know, the paper was my father's and my husband's when they were alive and I was thinking back a year or two ago when Ben called me and said he wanted to publish the Pentagon Papers the next day. The Times had already been stopped from publishing anymore of them and all my legal counsel said "don't, don't" and I was frightened but I knew if I said no, I'd lose the whole fifth floor. So we published, and that night, after I'd told Ben to go ahead, I woke up in the darkness and I thought, "Oh my Lord, what am I doing to this newspaper?" I woke up again last night with that same question. Are we right on this story?
I think so.
Are you sure?
No.
When will you be, do you think? when are we going to know it all?
It may never come out.
Never? Please don't tell me never. Ben says you've found some wonderful sources.
Some Justice Department lawyers and an FBI man, and some people from the Committee to ReElect, yes ma'am.
And the underground garage one. Would I know him?
I couldn't say.
But it's possible.
It is.
You've never told anyone who he is? But you'd have to tell me if I asked you. Tell me.
I would, if you really ever wanted to know.
I really want to know.
We're going to need lots of good luck, aren't we?
Nobody ever had too much.
Your name, please.
James McCord.
Will you step forward, sir.
And what is your occupation, Mr. McCord?
Security consultant.
Where?
Government. Recently retired.
Where in government?
...Central... Intelligence... Agency...
Where?
The C.I.A.
Hello, I'm Bob Woodward of the Washing Post and... Mullen and Company Public Relations? Could you tell me when you expect Mr. Hunt? He is?
Howard Hunt here.
Hi, I'm Bob Woodward of the Post and
yes, yes, what is it?
I was just kind of wondering why your name and phone number were in the address books of two of the men arrested at Watergate?
Good God!
I saw the flag signalwhat's up?
Nothing, that's the problemthe story's gone underground.
You thought I'd help out on specifics? I'll confirm what you get, try to keep you on the right track, but that's all. Are you guys really working? How much?
I don't know maybe sixteen, eighteen hours a daywe've got sources at Justice, the FBI, but it's still drying up.
Then there must be something, mustn't there. Look, forget the myths the media's created about the White House the truth is, these are not very bright guys, and things got out of hand.
If you don't like them, why won't you be more concrete with me?
Because the press stinks toohistory on the run, that's all you're interested in. You come up with anything?
John Mitchell resigned as head of CREEP to spend more time with his family. That doesn't exactly have the ring of truth. Howard Hunt's been foundthere was talk that his lawyer had 25 thousand in cash in a paper bag.
Follow the money. Always follow the money.
To where?
Go on.
This man Gordon Liddyhe's going to be tried along with Hunt and the five burglarswe know he knows a lot, we just don't know what.
You changed cabs? You're sure no one followed you?
I did everything you said, but it all seemed
melodramatic? Things are past thatremember, these are men with switchblade mentalities who run the world as if it were Dodge City.
What's the whole thing aboutdo you know?
What I know, you'll have to find out on your own.
Liddyyou think there's a chance he'll talk?
Talk? Once, at a gathering, he put his hand over a candle. And he kept it there. He kept it right in the flame until his flesh seared. A woman who was watching asked, "What's the trick?" And he replied. "The trick is not minding."
My turn to keep you waiting. What's the topic for tonight?
Ratfucking.
In my day, it was simply called the double cross. I believe the CIA refers to it as Mindfuck. In our context, it simply means infiltration of the Democrats.
I know what it meansSegretti wouldn't go on the record, but if he would, we know he'd implicate Chapin. And that would put us inside the White House.
Yes, the little ratfuckers are now running our government.
Who?be specific. How high up?
You'll have to find that out, won't you.
The slush fund at CREEP financed the ratfucking, we've almost got that nailed down, so
What?
Did you change cabs? It didn't work, something moved there
I hope you noticed how coolly I behaved under the threat of discovery.
Do Justice and the FBI know what we know, and why the hell haven't they done anything about it?
They know, but they focused on the burglaryif it didn't deal with the breakin, they didn't pursue it.
Why didn't they?who told them not to?
Someone with authority I'd imagine, wouldn't you? Don't you know what you're onto? Come on.
Mitchell knew then.
Of coursemy God, you think something this big just happens? The breakin and the cover up, of course Mitchell knew, but no more than Ehrlichman.
Haldeman too?
You get nothing from me about Haldeman?
Why did they do all this for Chrissakes?what were they after?
Total manipulation. I suppose you could say they wanted to subvert the Constitution, but they don't think along philosophical lines.
Talk about Segretti
don't concentrate on Segretti or you'll miss the overall scheme too.
There were more then.
Follow every leadevery lead goes somewhere
the Canuck letterwas that a White House operation
don't you miss the grand scheme too.
How grand?
Nationwidemy God, they were frightened of Muskie and look who got destroyedthey wanted to run against McGovern, and look who they're running against. They bugged, they followed people, false press leaks, fake letters, they canceled Democratic campaign rallies, they investigated Democratic private lives, they planted spies, stole documents, on and on don't tell me you think this was all the work of little Don Segretti.
And Justice and FBI know all this?
Yes, yes, everything. There were over fifty people employed by the White House and CREEP to ratfuck some of what they did is beyond belief.
Fifty ratfuckers directed by the White House to destroy the Democrats?
I was being cautious. You can safely say more then fifty...
I know, I know, the pressure's off the White House and it's all back on the Post
you've done worse than let Haldeman slip away, you've got people feeling sorry for himI didn't think that was possible. A conspiracy like this the rope has to tighten slowly around everyone's neck. You build from the outer edges and you go step by step. If you shoot too high and miss, then everybody feels more secure. You've put the investigation back months.
We know thatand if we were wrong, we're resigningwere we wrong?
You'll have to find that out, won't you?
this should take only a minute, Mr. Dahlberg, but we're doing a follow up on the breakin and I was kind of curious about your check.
...check...?
The twentyfive thousand dollar one. The one with your name on it. In Bernard Barker's Florida account. Bernard Barker, the Watergate burglar
...you're definitely doing a story...?
Yes, sir.
I'm a proper citizen, I'm a decent man, I don't do anything that isn't decent or proper. I know I shouldn't tell you this...
That twentyfive thousand dollars is money I collected for Nixon in this year's campaign.
I see. And how do you think it reached Miami?
I don't know; I really don't. The last time I saw it was when I was in Washington. I gave it to the Finance department of the Committee to Re Elect the President. How it got to that burglar, your guess is as good as mine.
That checks out with our finding, thank you, Mr. Dahlberg.
You claiming it was all a misunderstanding, Ken?
AbsolutelyMarilyn's gotten it totally wrong
She's an awfully good reporterI can't remember her getting too much wrong before, can you?
That's a bullshit question, that's a question straight out of Wichita, Kansas.
Sorry, Ken; listen, one last thing: where did your talk with Berger happen?
Where? What do you mean, where?
Well, was it in a bar, her apartment, some restaurant
I've completely forgotten where it was, except I know it wasn't her apartment.
Mr. Caddy? My name's Bob Woodward, I'm from the Post and I wanted to ask about how you happened to come on this case
I'm not here.
OK.
Douglas Caddy, the attorney of record, when questioned about his presence in the courtroom, denied he was in the courtroom, "I'm not here," Mr. Caddy said.
Clearly, I am here, but only as an individual, I'm not the attorney of record. Mr. Rafferty has that position. Whatever you want, you'll have to get from him, I have nothing more to say.
Mr. Rafferty was very helpful. Four CubanAmericans and this other man, James McCord.
Look, I told you inside
you have nothing more to say, I understand that.
What I don't understand is how you got here.
I assure you, there's nothing mysterious involved.
Probably you're right, but a little while ago, I was talking to a couple of lawyers who'd been assigned to represent the burglars.
So?
Well, they never would have been assigned if anyone had known the burglars had arranged for their own counsel. And that could only mean the burglars didn't arrange for their own counselthey never even made a phone call. So if they didn't ask for you to be here, how did you know to come?
Did you know to come because one of the other men involved in the break in called you?
There is no reason to assume other people were involved.
Your clients were arrested with a walkietalkie; they didn't need that to talk among themselves.
They are not my clients.
You're a lawyer and you're here
I met one of the defendants, Mr. Barker, at a social occasion once I have nothing more to say.
A Miami social occasion? Mr. Rafferty told me the Cubans were from Miami.
Barker's wife called me at three this morning; her husband apparently had told her to call if he hadn't called her by then.
It was really nice of you to come, since you'd only met him once.
Are you implying you don't believe me?
I have nothing more to say.
You don't mind getting on people's nerves, do you?
I was told by this guy at the White House that Hunt was investigating Teddy Kennedy.
How senior?
You asking me to disclose my source?
Just tell me his title.
I don't know titles.
Is he on the level of Assistant to the President or not?
This is a daily paper, we'll explain it tomorrow. You're certain on Mitchell?
He approved the payments to Liddy while he was still Attorney General
I saw him. He verifies.
OK. You're about to write a story that says that the former Attorney General the man who represented law in America is a crook. Just be right, huh?
I got Clawsen on hold
his dialing finger must be falling off
what do you think?
he went to her apartment and he told her
I'm sure
I'm not sure, it still feels thin
We can't talk inside either?
Electronic surveillance.
Anything else from Mr. Throat?
Mitchell started the coverup early, everyone is involved in the cover up, all the way to the top. The whole U.S. intelligence community is mixed in with the covert activities. The extent of it is incredible. And people's lives are in danger, maybe including ours.
I don't think either Metropolitan or National should cover the story. I don't think we should cover the story, period.
Go on.
It's not that we're using unnamed sources that bothers me, or that everything we print the White House denies, or that almost no other papers are reprinting our stuff.
It will, it just hasn't bottomed out yet, give it time.
Ben, Jesus, there are over two thousand reporters in this town, are there five on Watergate? Where did we suddenly get all this wisdom?
Lookwhy would the Republicans do it? my God, McGovern is self destructing before our eyesjust like Muskie did, Humphrey, the bunch of 'em. Why would the burglars have put the tape around the door instead of up and down unless they wanted to get caught? Why did they take a walkie talkie and then turn it off, unless they wanted to get caught? Why would they use McCordthe only direct contact to the Republicans?
You saying the Democrats bugged themselves?
The FBI thinks it's possiblethe Democrats need a campaign issue, corruption's always a good one. Get off the story, Benor put some people on McGovern's finances; fair is fair, even in our business.
Then it's our asses, isn't it?
And we'll all have to go to work for a living.
Same kind of crap
all nondenial denialswe're dirty guys and they doubt we were ever virgins but they don't say the story is inaccurate.
I don't know, I don't know, it feels thin
Christ, I wish I knew if we should print this
well shit, we oughtta be tense we're about to accuse Mr. Haldeman who only happens to be the second most important man in America of conducting a criminal conspiracy from inside the White House it would be nice if we were right
you doublechecked both sources?
What's this?
My nondenial denial.
then again, maybe things are even worse than we've written
they're worse. That's why I quit.
Try and understand this. I'm a decent Republican. I believe in Richard Nixon. I worked in the White House four yearsso did my wife. What happened on June 17 I don't think the President knew anything about. Some of his men I'm not so sure of.
Do you think the truth will come out at the trial?
That's another of the things I'm not so sure of.
Because people at the Committee were told to lie to the prosecutors?
We were never told flat out "Don't talk." But the message was clear.
To cover up?
Well, they sure didn't ask us to come forward and tell the truth.
But they both worked at the White House?
I will not talk about the other two.
KalmbachNixon's personal lawyer.
Right.
Then Barker withdrew the 25 thousand in hundred dollar bills and gave it back to Liddy who gave it back to me and I put it in the office safe which was crammed.
Ordinarily, though, what was the procedure?
RoutineI'd just call John Mitchell over at the Justice Department and he'd say "go ahead, give out the money."
What happens when the baby comes?
We're moving. I've been looking for a job but it's been... hard. My name's been in the papers too much. Sometimes I wonder if reporters understand how much pain they can inflict in just one sentence. I'm not thinking of myself. But my wife, my parents, it's been very rough on them.
I really can't talk now
this'll only take one second
my wife just had the baby, my in laws are arriving, I'm trying to get the house in some kind of shape.
I'm not your source on that
it's gotta be Haldemansomeone from the White House had to be involved
that leaves Haldeman, period.
I'm not your source on that.
if we wrote a story that said Haldeman controlled the fund?
let me put it this way: I'd have no problem if you did.
Why couldn't you have just dialed me from the office, Irwin?
'Cause I'm not calling out from the phone company anymore I think the place is bugged.
So tell me about the Times article.
What do you want to know?
No games, Irwin; give.
My big civil rights buddy boy, if John Mitchell was after your phone records, would you be screaming. What're you onto?
Something maybe big.
And that makes anything you do OK, is that it?
Just tell me about the goddamn article.
It was accurate, but I can't get a fuller listing for youall Barker's phone records have been subpoenaed.
Who by?
A Miami D.A. The guy doing the investigating is named Martin Dardis.
Irwin? I really feel bad, doing something like thisyou know that, don't you?
You've really got to go.
Just let me get a match.
But I want you to know that I understand why you're afraida lot of good people down there at the Committee are afraid. I'm really sorry for what you're being put through.
All those articles you people write where do you find that stuff?
We don't tell anyone that. Which is why you can talk to us. And if we can't verify what you say someplace else, we don't print it. That's another reason you can relax.
I'm relaxedlight your cigarette.
You were Hugh Sloan's bookkeeper when he worked for Maurice Stans at Finance, and we were sort of wondering, did you go work for Stans immediately after Sloan quit or was there a time lapse?
I never worked for Sloan or Stans.
One minute but then
right, right, I've got to go. Why did you lie just then?
I was just curiousyou don't do it well, so I wondered. Have you been threatened, if you told the truth, is that it?
...No... never in so many words...
It's obvious you want to talk to someonewell, I'm someone.
There are too many people watching methey know I know a lot
it was all in hundreds, wasn't it?
A lot of it was. I just thought it was sort of an allpurpose political fundyou know, for taking fat cats to dinner, things like that.
Could buy a lot of steaks, 350,000 dollars.
I can't be positive that it was used for the breakin but people sure are worried.
Which people?
The ones who could disburse the money.
Who were they?
There were a group of themI think five, I don't know their names.
Sloan knew which five, didn't he?
It's awfully hot and you haven't finished telling me about the money
omigod, there was so much of it, six million came in one twoday period six million cash, we couldn't find enough places to put it. I thought it was all legal, I guess I did, til after the breakin, when I remembered Gordon got so much of it.
Gordon Liddy, you mean?
It was all so crazythe day after the breakin he gave us a speech, bouncing up and down on his heels in that loony way of hisGordon told us not to let Jim McCord ruin everythingdon't let one bad apple spoil the barrel, he said. You just know that when Gordon Liddy's calling someone a bad apple, something's wrong somewhere. ...It's all so rotten... and getting worse... and all I care about is Hugh Sloan. His wife was going to leave him if he didn't stand up and do what was right. And he quit. He quit because he saw it and didn't want any part of it.
Think Sloan's being set up as a fall guy for John Mitchell? Sometimes it looks that way.
This is practically a high school reunion for us, JaneI would have sprung for a classier place.
Anyplace really public, they'd know about itthey know everything at the Committee, Carl
you don't really think you're being followed?
This girlfriend of mine at the Committee, the other day she went back to the D.A. to tell the things the FBI didn't ask her. That night, her boss, he knew what she'd done. They control everything; that's how they know it all.
FBI too?
You don't believe me? Well, I was working the weekend of the breakin and my God, all the executives were running around like crazyyou had to practically wait in line to use the shredding machineand when the FBI came to investigate, they never even asked me about it.
If you don't like it down there, why don't you quit?
I don't know what they'd do to me.
Hey, easy...
We're a long way from high school, Carl... ...and I'm scared.
Hannah, I never would have bothered you but I'm off to Miami and they're gonna take away my ten speed unless I get it straightened out fast.
Where are your bills, Carl?
Oh, they're here. I'm keeping much better records now, Hannah. See?
Carl, it's a jungle. I suggest you either pay this immediately or lay in a large supply of candles. You'd give a stranger the shirt off your backexcept it wouldn't be paid for.
Hey... very tense.
Lot of pressure at the Star. Carl, when we got married, you were four thousand dollars in debt; when we split, you were solvent. That may prove to be the outstanding single achievement of my life, and now look at this. How much did the damn bike cost?
Five hundred; six maybe.
You're two months behindyou got enough to cover?
I think.
Give me your checkbook then.
It's right under that pile.
I thought you had to get to Miami.
There's always a later plane.
You're a sex junkie, you know that, Carl?
Nobody's perfect. I'm glad you're out of it, Hannah you're a terrific reporter and I turned you into a bookkeeper.
no
goddamnit, when's somebody gonna go on the record on this story
and we got a guy in Justice
Deep Throat?
What's a real denial?
If they ever start calling us goddamn liars it's time to start circling the wagons.
I thought you guys were supposed to be working on this story you think I like being aced out?
what?
it would have been nice to have had this, I sure would have liked to have had this
there's nothing new in it
it makes the breakin realit's a major goddamn story I'm not going to kick ass over this, but I'd like you to know I hate getting beat, I just hate it don't forget that I hate it
if he did it or just said he did it, God knows.
I could care less about where it happened; what happened is what counts. Put him on. Ken, I'm sorry, it was Goddamn Beirut and they were having a crisis, what's up, kid? Slow down, Ken, you sound frazzled. A wife and a family and a cat and a dog, right, Ken. Ken, I would never print that you were in Marilyn's apartment at night unless, of course, you force me to.
Bernstein, are you sure on this story?
Absolutely
what about you?
Harry, I just talked to a Miami investigator about Barker
so?
I think it might be helpful if you'd send me to Miami.
I'm the one sent you to Toronto, Bernstein
that was awhile ago
"I think it might be helpful if you'd send me to Toronto." That was your spiel then. "The Lifestyles of Deserters." I'm still waiting for it.
Down to Miami and backhow much damage can I do?
You're the fella who forgot he rented a Hertz car, do I have to tell you they didn't forget to send us the bill?
you got more than one source?
yes
Speak.
We've just been talking to Young
he was going to go into law practice with Segretti.
And?
Donald Segretti?
That's right.
I'm Carl Bernstein. My paper sent me out to see if I couldn't persuade you to go on the record.
You can't.
Mind if I try?
According to what we've been able to verify, you've been busy.
I've got a lot of energy.
Listenwe know you're involved in thiswe're going to get the story, why not help?
They never told me anything except my own roleI had to find out the rest in the papers.
By "they" you mean...?
By "they" you mean the White House, don't you? Your buddy from USC, Dwight Chapin he works for the White House.
I know where Dwight works.
When did he hire you?
Do you feel much about the things you did?
I didn't do anything wrong.
Tell that to Muskie.
Oh, maybe nickel and dime stuff.
During the Florida primary, you wrote a letter on Muskie stationery saying Scoop Jackson had a bastard child. You wrote another that said Hubert Humphrey was out with call girls.
Sometimes it got up to a quarter maybe off the record.
You wrote the Canuck letterthe one where you claimed Muskie slurred the Canadians.
I didn't.
But you know who did.
When you guys print it in the paper, then I'll know. I'm a lawyer, and I'll probably go to jail, and be disbarred, and what did I do that was so awful?
None of it was my idea, CarlI didn't go looking for the job.
Chapin did contact you then?
Sureoff the record.
On the orders of Haldeman?
I don't know anything about Haldeman, except, Dwight's frightened of him everybody's frightened of himChrist, I wish I'd never gotten messed around with thisall I wanna do is sit in the sun; sit, swim, see some girls.
It gets interesting if it was Haldeman, because our word is that when Chapin says something, he's gotten the OK from Haldeman, and when Haldeman says something, he's gotten the OK from the President.
Can't help you.
At USC, you had a word the this screwing up the opposition you all did it at college and called it ratfucking. Ever wonder if Nixon might turn out to be the biggest ratfucker of them all?
Sorry. Now if it was Hunt you were interested in
Howard Hunt?
Sure. Him I liked, he was a very nice person. Secretive too, traveled all over, but a decent man.
Any idea what he did?
Oh, the scuttlebutt for awhile was he was investigating Kennedy
Teddy Kennedy?
Sure. I remember seeing a book about Chappaquiddick on his desk and he was always getting material out of the White House Library and the Library of Congress and
Hi, it's me. I'm still here.
I'm so glad.
I'd really like to see Mr. Dardis.
And you will. But not now.
I called him from Washington. He's the one who asked me to be here at eleven in the morning.
I told you, he had to go out on a case.
Could you reach Mr. Dardis by car radio?
He is not in the car. Sorry.
Mr. Dardis does call in every so often?
Well of course.
Good. Just tell him I was here, that I'm sorry I missed him
Look, you've been jerking my chain all day. If there's some reason you can't talk to melike the fact that you've already leaked everything to The New York Timesjust say so.
Listen, I've got a dinnercan't we do this tomorrow?
I'm on deadline.
You want Barker's phone stuff or his money stuff?
Whatever.
I'll never get out of here in time.
The telephone calls... we know about that.
The rest is Barker's bank records. It's mostly the eightynine thousand in Mexican cashier's checks
yeah, that was in The Times this morning.
I never could figure just who this Dahlberg was. Think it might be anything?
This? Naw...
What does it say?
John N. Mitchell, while serving as US Attorney General, personally controlled a secret cash fund that
jeeeeeeesus
fund that was used to gather information against the Democrats
jeeeeeeesus
according to sources involved in the Watergate investigation. Beginning in the spring of 1971
jeeeeeeesus
almost a year before he left the Justice Department
jeeeeeeeeesus
to become President Nixon's campaign manager on March 1, Mitchell personally approved withdrawals from the fund
all that crap, you're putting it in the paper? It's all been denied. You tell your publishertell Katie Graham she's gonna get her tit caught in a big fat wringer if that's published. Good Christ! That's the most sickening thing I ever heard.
Sir, I'd like to ask you a few
what time is it?
11:30.
Morning or night?
Night.
Oh.
What the hell were you doing rewriting my story
I sure couldn't hurt it, could I?
it was fine the way it was
it was bullshit the way it was
I have to stand here and listen to the staff correspondent from Virginia?
what have you been here, nine months?I been in this business since I was sixteen
and you've had some fucking meteoric rise, that's for sureby the time you turn forty you might be the head of the Montana bureau
you only got the job because both you and Bradlee went to Yale
Bradlee went to Harvard
they're all the same, all those Ivy League placesthey teach you about striped ties and suddenly you're smart
I'm smart enough to know my story was solid
mine's better
no way
read 'em both and you'll see
What is it about my writing that's so rotten?
Mainly it has to do with your choice of words.
Carl?
Yeah?
Fuck you, Carl.
You heard? They put us both on the breakin thing. Simons liked the way we worked together. Listen, I'm sorry I said your story was bullshit.
It's OK; I'm sorry I called you a failure.
Forget it, the main thing did you call me a failure?
I was sure trying.
All right, what do we know?
Let me lay a little theory on you
I'm not interested in theory. What do we know? For example, Hunt's disappeared.
Well, Barker tried to get blueprints of the Miami Convention Center and the airconditioning system.
And McCord was carrying an application for college press credentials for the Democratic convention. The Times has got to be full of it it can't be crazy Cubans.
What, though? It can't be the Republicanshe'd never allow something as stupid as this, not when he's gonna slaughter McGovern anyway.
Right. Nixon didn't get where he got by being dumb listen, that was a Watergate question
Hey?
Hmm.
What do you think he meant, this particular incident? Were there others? How would we find out? You know anyone important?
I lived here all my life, I got a million contacts, but they're all bus boys and bellhops.
what do you think?
Hunt doesn't seem like your ordinary consultant.
Maybe a political operative of some sort
a spy, you mean?
It makes sense; Hunt worked for the C.I.A. and the White House was paranoid about Teddy Kennedy.
You think they are confidential? I don't know anything about how this town works, I haven't lived here a year yet.
We need a sympathetic face.
July of '71.
About the past year.
That was fun. What now?
I met a Presidential aide once at a social occasion.
And you haven't called him?
What's that?
The fucking New York Times.
Goddamnit
see?
I'm trying
fifteen phone calls
fifteen or more phone calls from the burglars in Miami to Gordon Liddy at CREEP
Why didn't we get that?
Christ, and I even know somebody at the phone company
you do?with access to records?
See her? Get anything?
For the paper, no; for us, plenty. I waited a long time and finally this big guyI guess a bodyguard he left and I knocked and she remembered me, we talked awhile.
And?And?
she was panicked, Carlevery time I mentioned Watergate, you could tell.
Were you eyebrow reading?
It was there. I just don't get it; a CREEP secretary being scared, that's one thing. But what does the wife of one of the most powerful men in America have to be afraid of...?
Who's first?
Alphabetically, on the CREEP phone list, Miss Helen Abbott of South George Street.
I don't get it... this really was my turf...
You're not a kid anymore.
My first day as a copy boy I was sixteen and wearing my only grownup suitit was cream colored. At 2:30 the head copy boy comes running up to me and says, "My God, haven't you washed the carbon paper yet? If it's not washed by three, it'll never by dry for tomorrow." And I said, "Am I supposed to do that?" and he said, "Absolutely, it's crucial." So I run around and grab all the carbon paper from all the desks and take it to the men's room. I'm standing there washing it and it's splashing all over me and the editor comes in to take a leak, and he says, "What the fuck do you think you're doing?" And I said, "It's 2:30. I'm washing the carbon paper." Just wanted you to know I've done dumber things than get us lost, that's all.
This is terrific work, if you like rejection.
I never scared anyone before.
It's not us, they were scared before we got there. What do we know?
Facts or theory?
Anything you've got.
We know there's got to be something or they wouldn't be so panicked.
And that something's got to be more than just Hunt, Liddy, and the five burglarsthose indictments are gonna be bullshit when they come down. What else do we know?
I just wish we knew when someone would talk to us, that's all.
We never reveal our sources, which is why you can talk to us.
It's safe, try it, you'll see.
We understand your problem
you believe in the President, you wouldn't ever want to do anything disloyal.
We appreciate your positionreally.
I hate both parties.
And I'm a Republican.
Republican?
Sure.
Who'd you vote for?
When?
'68.
Nixon.
Did he just say what I think he said?
You voted for him.
I couldn't believe what she told me. Eight cups of coffee worth.
Go on, go on
we've got to find out who the five guys arethe five with access to the slush fundthey were aware of the breakin.
Then tomorrow's grand jury indictments will just be bullshit.
It goes very highwe've got to find out where
we will
she was really paranoid, the bookkeeper.
That happens to people. OK, go on.
How do you want to handle Sloan?
You mean, who's going to play the mean M.P. and who's going to be the nice one? Whichever.
He's another Ivy Leaguer so he'll probably expect you to be understandingmight surprise him if you're not.
You want me to be the bastard.
And I'll just shitkick in my usual way.
Think Sloan's back? What's wrong?
NothingI just found out that Jeb Magruder from CREEP is a bigger bike freak than I am. I never like it when the other guy's human...
there had to be a White House overseer
Colson.
Lookfive men controlled that slush fund as CREEPthree of them we've got, Mitchell, Stans, Magruder, and we're pretty sure of Kalmbach.
We'd like to wait til we have all five before we print it.
The L.A. Times has a huge interview with Baldwin
the lookout in the Motor Inn? he say anything we don't know?
just that a lot of reports were sent to CREEP, but he doesn't name who, not here anyway
Goddamnit
shit
we gotta top the Times
I know, I know
if we could name the guys got the reports, we'd be ahead again
shit, who do we know?
I know a lawyer at Justice
has he got an ax?
almost every source we've used has been Republican, this guy's a card carrying Democrat.
Then he's got an ax. Call him anyway.
I want you to shut up and listen to me
I haven't said anything
for the first time I'm beginning to feel like a fucking reporter Woodward, I got a tip. A guy called me up with a tip someone named Donald Segretti contacted a bunch of lawyers and asked them if they'd like to go to work with him screwing up the Democrats, dirty tricks, shit like that. The FBI knows about Segretti Howard Hunt made a bunch of phone calls to himthey interrogated him, but on account of Segretti wasn't involved with the breakin, they didn't follow through. But Segretti did a lot of travelinghe called these lawyers from different places, and he told them the Republicans knew what he was doing.
How high up, which Republicans?
That's what we've got to find out, but Segretti went to Southern Cal. and so did a bunch of Nixon men
Haldeman I know, who else?
Dwight Chapin, Nixon's appointments chiefhe knew Segretti in school. Maybe I'm crazy, but this is the first time any of this starts to make sense. What were the three theories?
The burglary was done by Cubans or Democrats or Republicans.
Now the reason no one believed the Republicans is because there wasn't any reason, they were so far ahead. But Segretti was talking to these other lawyers a year before the break in.
So maybe Watergate wasn't really about Watergatemaybe that was just a piece
because a year before, the Republicans weren't ahead, not in the polls, Muskie was running ahead of Nixon then. Before he self destructed.
If he selfdestructed.
Segretti crisscrossed the country over ten times in six monthsand never stayed anyplace over a night or two. Switch to another station, huh? You're driving me crazy with that.
Segovia begged me for me secret but I said, "No, Andres, you'll have to try and make it without me."
California, Illinois, Florida, New Hampshireall the major Democratic primary states. Why does everything you play sound the same?
'cause I only know four chords
What would you have done?
You asking would I have been one of the President's men? I would have been.
You think we're being set up?Christ, Deep Throat tells you last night that the letter came from inside the White House and up traipses Marilyn naming names.
It makes a crazy kind of sense remember that initiation rite they have at the White House? Each new member of the President's staff has to prove his guts by getting an enemy of Nixon.
You think this was Clawsen's initiation?
Could have won him a fraternity paddle with a White House seal. God knows it worked.
He'll give us a sworn statement.
We're inside the White House now.
That cash fund that financed the sabotaging of the Democratsfive guys had control
Mitchell, Stans, Magruder, Kalmbach
we're working on the last guy now and we're going all the waythat fifth man was Haldeman.
I think that's him.
Who?
Haldeman.
Nah. Maybe.
What if I went up and introduced myselfthink he'd slug me?
Well, we are trying to ruin his life.
It's nothing personal, though.
What's the matter?
Same as Magruder, I don't like it when they turn out to be human.
I wish we were investigating Attila the Hun.
Maybe we are...
Jesus
he said John Haldeman, not Bob Haldeman
Sloan told the Grand Juryhe answered everything they asked him that means there's a record somewhere
and the FBI confirmswhat more do you need?
How many fucking sources they think we got?
Deep Throat won't confirmI never thought he was scared of anyone, but he's scared of Haldeman.
I know a guy in the Justice Department who was around the Grand Jury.
We got twenty minutes to deadline
Woodward?
Hmm?
What was the mistake? Do you think it's been rigged, all along the way, leading us on so they could slip it to us when it mattered? They couldn't have set us up better; after all these months our credibility's gone, you know what that means?
Only everything...
You overslept?
Goddamnit!
I finally got through to Sloanit was all a misunderstanding that we had: he would have told the Grand Jury about Haldeman, he was ready to, only nobody on the Grand Jury asked him the goddamn question.
So I guess you could say that we screwed up, but we weren't wrong.
Make it Bergdorf Goodman... and now everything is on its proper shelf, eh, Max? Done up in little ribbons. I could die right now and nobody'd be confused. How about you, Max?
How about me what?
Supposed you dropped dead. What about your inventory?
I ain't gonna die. Not with a hit.
Margo. You by any chance got bicarbonate of soda in the house?
Poor Max. Heartburn? It's that Miss Caswell. I don't know why she doesn't give Addison heartburn.
Let the rest of the world beat their brains out for a buck. It's friends that count. And I got friends.
I love you, Max. I really mean it. I love you. Come to the pantry.
Here you are, Maxie dear. One good burp and you'll be rid of that Miss Caswell...
The situation I'm in ain't the kind you can belch your way out. I made a promise...
Miss Caswell? What?
An audition for the part we're replacing. What'shername, your sister...
Well, if she can act, she might not be bad. She looks like she might burn down a plantation...
I feel right now like there's one burning in me.
When's the audition?
A couple of weeks.
I tell you what. Why don't I read with her?
Would you?
Anything to help you out, Max.
This is real cooperation. I appreciate it.
Not at all. And you could do me a big favor, if you would
All you got to do is name it.
Give Eve Harrington job in you office.
You get quick action, don't you?
Margo, I wouldn't think of taking that girl away from you...
You said yourself my inventory was in good shape  all of my merchandise put away. To keep her here with nothing to do  I'd be standing in her way... and you need her, Max.
But what could she do?
She'd be a great help  read scripts, interview people you have to see, get rid of the ones you don't have to... you'd be a man of leisure
Well...
Think of your health, Max  more time to relax out in the fresh air at a race track...
I don't know if this would be a wise move...
Promise.
I promise.
That's my Max.
This is for lawyers to talk about, this concerns a runoftheplay contract, and this you can't rewrite or ad lib!
Are you threatening me with legal action, Mr. Fabian?
Are you breaking the contract?
Answer my question!
Who am I to threaten? I'm a dying man.
I didn't hear you.
I said I'm a dying man!
Not until the last drugstore has sold its last pill!
"Liebestraum."
I just played it.
Play it again.
But that was the fourth straight time.
Then this will be five. I suppose you think I'm too drunk to count.
No. You're just crazy about "Liebestraum."
"Liebestraum."
Look, Miss Channing... it's kind of depressing. If you don't mind my saying so, everybody's kind of dying on the vine...
My dear Horowitz. In the first place, I'm paying you union scale. Second, it's my piano. Third, if everybody doesn't like kind of dying on the vine, they can get off the vine and go home. "Liebestraum."
Hello..
We are ready with your call to Beverly Hills...
Call, what call?
It this Templeton 89970? Miss Margo Channing?
That's right, but I don't understand
We are ready with the call you placed for 12 midnight, California time, to Mr. William Sampson in Beverly Hills...
I placed...?
Go ahead, please...
Honey chili had a point. You know, I can remember plays about women  even from the South  where it never even occurred to them whether they wanted to marry their fathers more than their brothers...
That was way back...
Within your time, buster. Lloyd, honey, be a playwright with guts. Write me one about a nice, normal woman who shoots her husband.
Would you, really? How sweet
I doubt very much that you'd like her in 'The Hairy Ape'.
How about calling it a night?
And you pose as a playwright. A situation pregnant with possibilities  and all you can think of is everybody to go to sleep...
I like that girl. That quality of quiet graciousness...
... Among so many quiet qualities.
The general atmosphere is very Macbethish. What has or is about to happen?
What is he talking about?
There you are, both of you. Max, Karen has decided it's time to go.
Where is she?
Up in the room.
Who's left out there?
Too many. And you've got a new guest. A movie star from Hollywood.
Shucks. And my autograph book is at the cleaners.
You disapprove of me when I'm like this, don't you?
Not exactly. Sometimes, though, I wish I understood you better.
When you do, let me in on it.
I will.
How's the new one coming?
The play? All right, I guess...
"Cora." She's  still a girl of twenty?
Twentyish. It isn't important.
Don't you think it's about time it became important?
How do you mean?
Don't be evasive.
Margo, you haven't got any age.
Miss Channing is ageless. Spoken like a press agent.
I know what I'm talking about, after all they're my plays...
Spoken like an author. Lloyd, I'm not twentyish. I am not thirtyish. Three months ago, I was forty years old. Forty. Four oh. That slipped out, I hadn't quite made up my mind to admit it. Now I feel as if I'd suddenly taken all my clothes off...
Week after week, to thousands of people, you're as young as you want...
... as young as they want, you mean. And I'm not interested in whether thousands of people think I'm six or six hundred
Just one person. Isn't that so? You know what this is all about, don't you? It has very little to do with whether you should play "Cora"  it has everything to do with the fact that you've had another fight with Bill.
She's your understudy.
Eve? Eve, my understudy? But I had no idea...
I thought you knew... She was put on over a week ago
It seems almost inconceivable that I haven't seen her backstage, but with so many people loitering around... well, well. So Eve is not working for Max after all  Max you sly puss.
I'm sure you underestimate yourself, Eve. You always do. You were about to tell me about Eve...
You'd have been proud of her.
I'm sure.
She was a revelation...
To you, too?
What do you mean?
I mean, among other things, that it must have been a revelation to have your twentyfouryearold character played by twentyfouryearold actress...
That's beside the point.
It's right to the point. Also that it must have sounded so new and fresh to you  so exciting to have the lines read as you wrote them!
You've been talking to that venomous fishwife, Addison deWitt
 in this case, apparently, as trustworthy as the World Almanac!
You knew when you came in that the audition was over, that Eve was your understudy! Playing that childish game of cat and mouse...
Not mouse, never mouse! If anything  rat!
You have a genius for making barroom brawl out of a perfectly innocent misunderstanding at most!
Perfectly innocent! Man have been hanged for less! I'm lied to, attacked behind my back, accused of reading your silly dialogue inaccurately  as if it were Holy Gospel!
I never said it was!
Then you listened as if someone else had written you play  whom did you have in mind? Sherwood? Arthur Miller? Beaumont and Fletcher?
I shall never understand the weird process by which a body with a voice suddenly fancies itself a mind! Just when exactly does an actress decide they're her words she's saying and her thoughts she's expressing?
Usually at the point when she's got to rewrite and rethink them to keep the audience from leaving the theater!
It's about time the piano realized it has not written the concerto!
Karen and I just don't want an accident
I have no intention of having an accident!
It's not important whether you do. We are wearing long underwear.
How fortunate that I have an understudy so ready, so willing and so able to go on.
The audience will want its money refunded, believe me.
Thank you, Lloyd. Godspeed.
It's been quite a night. I understand that your understudy  Miss Harrington  has given her notice.
Too bad.
Yes, sir.
City Hall, that's for prize fighters, and reporters  I see a cathedral, a bishop, banks of flowers...
Very discreet. A note right out in the open like that. Next time tell your lover to blow smoke rings  or tap a glass...
Lloyd, I want you to be big about this... the world is full of love tonight, no woman is safe...
... and Bill. Especially Bill. Eve did that, too.
You know, she probably means well, after all...
She is a louse.
That depends.
I mean really, deeply angry...
I don't think I could be.
Well. I don't want to play "Cora."
Now wait a minute, you're always so touchy about his plays, it isn't the part  it's a great part. And a fine play. But not for me anymore  not a foursquare, upright, downright, forthright married lady.
What's your being married got to do with it?
It means I've finally got a life to live! I don't have to play parts I'm too old for  just because I've got nothing to do with my nights! I know you've made plans. I'll make it up to you, believe me. I'll tour a year with this one, anything  only you do understand  don't you, Lloyd?
How was the concert?
Loud.
 'at's my loyal little woman.
The critics thought so, the audiences certainly think so  packed houses, tickets for months in advance  I can't see that either of Lloyd's last two plays have hurt you any!
Easy, now...
You can't put her out, I promised... Margo, you've got to see her, she worships you, it's like something out of a book
That book is out of print, Karen, those days are gone. Fans no longer pull the carriage through the streets  they tear off clothes and steal wrist watches...
If you'd only see her, you're her whole life  you must have spotted her by now, she's always there...
Now let's not get into a big hassle
It's about time we did! It's about time Margo realized that what's attractive on stage need not necessarily be attractive off.
Coming?
In a minute...
Lloyd, what happened...?
Up to here! That's where I've got it  up to here! Of all the star ridden, presumptuous, hysterical
Margo, again...
And again and again! Two hours late for the audition, to begin with
That's on time for Margo.
Then a childish, heavyhanded routine about not knowing Eve was her understudy
It's just possible she didn't...
Of course she knew! For one thing, Addison told her how superbly Eve had read the part! Karen, let me tell you about Eve. She's got everything  a born actress. Sensitive, understanding, young, exciting, vibrant
 don't run out of adjectives, dear.
 everything a playwright first thinks of wanting to write about... until his play becomes a vehicle for Miss Channing...
Margo hasn't done badly by it.
Margo. Margo's great. She knows it. That's the trouble. She can play Peck's Bad Boy all she wants, and who's to stop her? Who's to give her that boot in the rear she needs and deserves?
It's going to be a cozy weekend.
What is?
We're driving out to the country tomorrow night. Just the four of us. Bill, Margo, you and I...
Well. We've spent weekends before with nobody talking... ... just be sure to lock up all blunt instruments and throwable objects...
What time is it?
When you asked a minute ago it was fivefortytwo. It is now five fortythree. When you ask a minute from no, it will be
I just don't want Margo to miss her train. As it is, she'll barely make the theater...
Fivefiftyfive. We'll be at the station in plenty of time...
Lloyd, be careful...
Just a little skid, that's all. This road's like glass.
But it can't be! We can't be out of gas! I filled it myself yesterday! Wasn't it full when you drove to Brewster this morning?
I guess I didn't look. You know I don't pay attention to those things...
Incredible.
You'll break your neck on that ice.
What a way to die  trying to get an actress to the theater in time. Tell Max I want to be buried with royalties...
Don't joke about such things.
 it's Addison, from start to finish, it drips with his brand of venom... taking advantage of a kid like that, twisting her words, making her say what he wanted her to say
Where'd you get all that information?
Eve.
Eve?
She's been to see me, as a matter of fact she left just before you came in  you just missed her...
That was a pity...
She wanted to explain about her interview, wanted to apologize to someone  and didn't dare face Margo...
I wonder why.
You know, I've been going over our financial condition  if you'll pardon the expression...
That's quite a change of subject.
What with taxes coming up  and since I'm a playwright and not an oil well operator  well, I've been thinking...
I'm trying hard to follow you.
If  instead of waiting until next season to do 'Footsteps on the Ceiling', which is in pretty good shape  and if Margo can be talked into going on tour with 'Aged in Wood'  we could put 'Footsteps...' into production right away...
I'm beginning to catch up.
If we could cast it properly, that is...
Maybe get some younger actress for the part? Someone who'd look the part as well as play it?
You've got to admit it would be a novelty.
Now you're quoting Addison. Or Eve.
Eve did mention the play, you know. But just in passing  she's never ask to play a part like "Cora," she'd never have the nerve...
Eve would ask Abbott to give her Costello.
No, I got the idea myself  while she was talking to me...
With gestures, of course.
For once, to write something and have it realized completely. For once, not to compromise
Lloyd Richards, you are not to consider giving that contemptible little worm the part of "Cora."
Now just a minute
Margo Channing has not been exactly a compromise all these years, half the playwrights in the world would give their shirts for that particular compromise!
Now just a minute!
It strikes me that Eve's disloyalty and ingratitude must be contagious!
All this fuss and hysteria because an impulsive kid got carried away by excitement and the conniving of a professional manure slinger named deWitt! She apologized, didn't she?
On her knees, I have no doubt! Very touching, very AcademyofDramatic Arts!
That bitter cynicism of yours is something you've acquired since you left Radcliffe!
The cynicism you refer to, I acquired the day I discovered I was different from little boys!
Margo  and Bill  want us to meet them at the Cub Room tonight, after theater. For a bottle of wine.
Margo in the Cub Room. I couldn't be more surprised if she'd said Grant's Tomb.
I'm glad Bill's back.
They'd die without each other.
Darling, I didn't promise Eve anything. Just said I thought she'd be fine for the part, but there were some practical difficulties...
Such as?
You  for one. I told her you were set on Margo playing the part  and I certainly wouldn't make a change without your approval.
Well of all
Margo!
Three days, that's for the bourgeois  I see a midnight elopement, waking up a village person...
What are you going to wear?
After all, maybe she just wants to apologize...
I have no possible interest in anything she'd have to say.
 well? What happened?
Nothing much. She apologized.
You mean  all this time  she'd done nothing but apologize? What'd you say?
Not much.
What's so funny?
Nothing...
Who is it? What's it all about?
Did Miss Harrington tell you to call Mr. Richards?
I didn't think you would! It seems to me, Karen, that for some tine, now, you've been developing a deep unconcern for the feeling of human being in general
I'm a human being, I've got some!
 and for my feelings in particular! For my play, my career  and now for a frightened, hysterical girl on the eve of her first night in the Theater!
Have you forgotten about Eve? What she is, what she's done?
Old wives' tales, born of envy and jealousy! And a phobia against truth!
Then tell me this isn't true! That your concern for your play and career is one thing  and that poor frightened hysterical girl another  and that your concern for her has nothing to do with either your play or your career!
Hi. Hello, darling
Hi. "Well, now Mis' Channin', ah don't think you can rightly say we lost the wah, we was mo' stahved out, you might say  an' that's what ah don' unnerstand about all these plays about lovestahved Suth'n women  love is one thing we was nevah stahved for the South!"
It's the tight girdle that does it.
I find these wisecracks increasingly less funny! 'Aged in Wood' happens to be a fine and distinguished play
Relax, kid. It's only me and my big mouth...
It's just that you get me so mad sometimes... of all the women in the world with nothing to complain about
Ain't it the truth?
Yes, it is! You're talented, famous, wealthy  people waiting around night after night just to see you, even in the wind and rain...
Autograph fiends! They're not people  those little beast who run in packs like coyotes
They're your fans, your audience
They're nobody's fans! They're juvenile delinquents, mental detectives, they're nobody's audience, they never see a play or a movie, even  they're never indoors long enough!
Well... there's one indoors now. I've brought her back to see you.
You've what?
She's just outside the door.
The heaveho.
Dear Birdie. Won't you sit down, Miss Worthington?
Harrington.
I'm so sorry... Harrington. Won't you sit down?
Would you like a drink? It's right beside you...
I was telling Margo and Lloyd about how often you'd seen the play...
Margo, really...
Please don't play governess, Karen, I haven't your unyielding good taste, I wish I'd gone to Radcliffe too but father wouldn't hear of it  he needed help at the notions counter... I'm being rude now, aren't I? OR should I say "ain't I"?
Margo, nothing you've ever done has made me as happy as your taking Eve in...
I'm so happy you're happy.
That little place just two hours form New York. It's on my list of thingsI'llneverunderstand. Like collecting shrunken Indian heads...
Of all people you should know what it means to want some peace and quiet
Peace and quit is for libraries.
How much time have we?
Roughly ten minutes.
How far to the station?
Three or four miles...
Any houses or farms around where we can borrow gas?
None in sight, there aren't many along this back road...
Not many car either, not much chance of a lift...
He always looks so pathetic whenever he does anything physical
It seems to me that walking, for most people, is not very dangerous.
I just never think of Lloyd as anywhere but indoors and anything but sitting down.
Be brave. He'll come back  with or without gas.
Do you want it on?
It doesn't matter.
I detest cheap sentiment.
Karen. I haven't been pleasant this weekend.
We've all seemed a little tense lately...
Come to think of it, I haven't been very pleasant for weeks. For that, I'm truly sorry. More than any two people I know, I don't want you and Lloyd to be angry with me...
We're never deeply angry, we just get sore. The way you do. We know you too well...
So many people  know me. I wish I did. I wish someone would tell be about me...
You're Margo. Just  Margo.
And what is that? Besides something spelled out in light bulbs, I mean. Besides something called temperament, which consists mostly of swooping about on a broomstick creaming at the top of my voice... infants behave the way I do, you know. They carry on and misbehave  they'd get drunk if they knew how  when they can't have what they want. When they feel unwanted and insecure  or unloved.
What about Bill?
What about Bill?
He's in love with you.
More than anything in this world, I love Bill. And I want Bill. I want him to want me. But me. Not Margo Channing. And if I can't tell they apart  how can he?
Why should he  and why should you?
Bill's in love with Margo Channing. He's fought with her, worked with her, loved her... but ten years from now  Margo Channing will have ceased to exist. And what's left will be... what?
Margo. Bill is all of eight years younger than you.
Those years stretch as the years go on. I've seen it happen too often.
Not to you. Not to Bill.
Isn't that what they always say?
I don't suppose the heater runs when the motor doesn't?
Silly, isn't it? You'd think they'd fix it so people could just sit in a car and keep warm...
About Eve. I've acted pretty disgracefully toward her, too.
Well...
Let's not fumble for excuses, not here and now with my hair down. At best, let's say I've been oversensitive to... well, to the fact that she's so young  so feminine and helpless. To so many things I want to be for Bill... funny business, a woman's career. The things you drop on your way up the ladder, so you can move faster. You forget you'll need them again when you go back to being a woman. That's one career all females have in common  whether we like it or not  being a woman. Sooner or later we've all got to work at it, no matter what other careers we've had or wanted... and, in the last analysis, nothing is any good unless you can look up just before dinner or turns around in bed  and there he is. Without that, you're not woman. You're something with a French provincial office or a book full of clippings  but you're not a woman... ... slow curtain. The end.
Margo. Margo, I want you to know how sorry I am about this...
About what?
This. I can't tell you how sorry I am!
Don't give it another thought, one of destiny's many pranks. After all, you didn't personally drain the gasoline out of the tank...
"... my hat which has, lo, these many seasons become more firmly rooted about my ears, is lifted to Miss Harrington. I am once more available for dancing in the streets and shouting from the housetops." ... I thought that one went out with Woollcott... Down here... here, listen to this "... Miss Harrington had much to tell  and these columns shall report her faithfully  about the lamentable practice in our Theater of permitting, shall we say  mature  actresses to continue playing roles requiring a youth and vigor of which they retain but a dim memory"
I just can't believe it.
It get better! " About the understandable reluctance on the part of our entrenched First Ladies of the Stage to encourage, shall we say  younger  actresses; about Miss Harrington's own long and unsupported struggle for opportunity"
I can't believe Eve said those things!
In this rat race, everybody's guilty till they're proved innocent! One of the differences between the Theater and civilization... ... what gets me is how all of those papers in town happened to catch that particular performance!
Lloyd says it's a publicity release...
The little witch must have had Indians runners out snatching critics out of bars, steam rooms and museums or wherever they hole up... well, she won't get away with it! Nor will Addison deWitt and his poison pen! If Equity or my lawyer can't or won't do anything about it, I will personally stuff that pathetic little lost lamb down Mr. deWitt's ugly throat...
Karen, in all the years of our friendship, I have never let you go to the Ladies' Room alone. But now I must. I am busting to know what goes on in that feverish little brain waiting there...
Well... all right.
With tears?
With tears.
But not right away? First the business of fighting them off, chin up, stout fella...
Check.
Very classy stuff, lots of technique
I remember.
You'll be there, won't you.
Please, don't misunderstand me, Mr. Richards. I think that part of Miss Channing's greatness lies in her ability to choose the best plays... your new play is for Miss Channing, isn't it, Mr. Richards?
Of course it is.
Well. If I didn't come to see the play, I wouldn't have anywhere else to go.
There are other plays...
Not with you in them. Not by Mr. Richards...
Did you see it here in New York?
San Francisco. It was the last week. I went one night... the most important night in my life  until this one. Anyway... I found myself going the next night  and the next and the next. Every performance. Then, when the show went East  I went East.
No, don't go...
The four of you must have so much to say to each other  with Mr. Sampson leaving...
Stick around. Please. Tell you what  we'll put Stanislavsky on his plane, you and I, then go somewhere and talk.
Well  if I'm not in the way...
I won't be a minute.
What  again?
I could watch you play that last scene a thousand times and cry every time
Performance number one thousand of this one  if I play it that long  will take place in a wellpadded booby hatch...
I must say you can certainly tell Mr. Sampson's been gone a month.
You certainly can. Especially if you're me between now and tomorrow morning...
I mean the performance. Except for you, you'd think he'd never even directed it  it's disgraceful the way they change everything around...
Well, teacher's away and actors will be actors...
During your second act scene with your father, Roger Ferraday's supposed to stay way upstage at the arch. He's been coming closer down every night...
When he gets too close, I'll spit in his eye.
You haven't noticed my latest bit of interior decorating...
Well, you've done so much... what's new?
The curtains. I made them myself.
They are lovely. Aren't they lovely, Birdie?
While you're cleaning up, I'll take this to the wardrobe mistress
Don't bother. Mrs. Brown'll be along for it in a minute.
No trouble at all.
Well  what do you think of my elegant new suit?
Very becoming. It looks better on you than it did on me.
I can imagine... you know, all it needed was some taking in here and letting out there  are you sure you won't want it yourself?
Quite sure. I find it just a bit too  too "Seventeenish" for me...
Oh, come now, as though you were an old lady... I'm on my way. Is there anything more you've thought of?
There's the script to go back to the Guild
I've got it.
 and those checks or whatever it is for the income tax man.
Right here.
It seems I can't think of a thing you haven't thought of...
That's my job. See you at tea time...
Eve... ... by any chance, did you place a call from me to Bill for midnight California time?
Oh, golly. And I forgot to tell you
Yes, dear. You forgot all about it.
Well, I was sure you'd want to, of course, being his birthday, and you've been so busy these past few days, and last night I meant to tell you before you went out with the Richards  and I guess I was asleep when you got home...
Yes, I guess you were. It  it was very thoughtful of you, Eve.
Mr. Sampson's birthday. I certainly wouldn't forget that. You'd never forgive me. As a matter of fact, I sent him a telegram myself...
Don't get up. And please stop acting as if I were the queen mother.
I'm sorry, I didn't mean to
If you'd like.
I wouldn't like.
I'd like to hear it.
Some snowy night in front of the fire... in the meantime, while we're on the subject, will you check about the hors d'oeuvres? The caterer forgot them, the varnish wasn't dry or something...
Of course.
The hors d'oeuvres are here. Is there anything else I can do?
Thank you, Eve. I'd like a Martini  very dry.
Good evening, Mr. deWitt.
I had no idea you knew each other.
Terribly sorry I'm late, lunch was long and I couldn't find a cab  where's Miss Caswell, shall we start? Oh, hello, Eve...
Hello, Miss Channing.
How are you making out in Mr. Fabian's office? I don't want you working the child too hard, Max  just because you promised. As you see, I kept my promise, too...
Miss Channing, I can't tell you how glad I am that you arrived so late.
Really, Eve? Why?
Well, if you'd been here to begin with, I wouldn't have dared to read at all...
Why not?
... and if you'd come in the middle, I'd have stopped, I couldn't have gone on
What a pity, all that fire and music being turned off...
Hello, Miss Harrington.
How do you do, Mr. Richards.
No, thank you. Yes. I've seen every performance.
Every performance? Then  am I safe in assuming you like it?
I'd like anything Miss Channing played...
How'd hear about it?
There was an item in the Times. i like the title. 'Footsteps on the Ceiling'.
Let's get back to this one. Have you really seen every performance? Why? I'm curious...
Well... it started with the play before this one...
'Remembrance'.
I guess it started back home. Wisconsin, that is. There was just mum, and dad  and me. I was the only child, and I made believe a lot when I was a kid  I acted out all sorts of things... what they were isn't important. But somehow acting and makebelieve began to fill up my life more and more, it got so that I couldn't tell the real from the unreal except that the unreal seemed more real to me... I'm talking a lot of gibberish, aren't I?
Not at all...
Farmers were poor in those days, that's what dad was  a farmer. I had to help out. So I quit school and I went to Milwaukee. I became a secretary. In a brewery. When you're a secretary in a brewery  it's pretty hard to make believe you're anything else. Everything is beer. It wasn't much fun, but it helped at home  and there was a Little Theater Group... like a drop of rain in the desert. That's where I met Eddie. He was a radio technician. We played 'Liliom' for three performances, I was awful  then the war came, and we got married. Eddie was in the air force  and they sent him to the South Pacific. You were with the O.W.I., weren't you Mr. Richards? That's what 'Who's Who' says... well, with Eddie gone, my life went back to beer. Except for a letter a week. One week Eddie wrote he had a leave coming up. I'd saved my money and vacation time. I went to San Francisco to meet him. Eddie wasn't there. They forwarded the telegram from Milwaukee  the one that came from Washington to say that Eddie wasn't coming at all. That Eddie was dead... ... so I figured I'd stay in San Francisco. i was alone, but couldn't go back without Eddie. I found a job. And his insurance helped... and there were theaters in San Francisco. And one night Margo Channing came to play in 'Remembrance'... and I went to see it. And  well  here I am...
It's been a real pleasure, Eve.
I hope so, Mr. Richards. Good night...
Back to Copacabana. But Eve. Margo, let me tell you about Eve
I was dreadful, Miss Channing, believe me  I have no right to be anyone's understudy, much less yours...
So there you are. It seemed odd, suddenly, your not being there...
Why should you think I wouldn't be?
Why should you be? After all, six nights a week  for weeks  of watching even Margo Channing enter and leave a theater
I hope you don't mind my speaking to you...
Not at all.
I've seen you so often  it took every bit of courage I could raise
To speak to just a playwright's wife? I'm the lowest form of celebrity...
You're Margo Channing's best friend. You and your husband are always with her  and Mr. Sampson... what's he like?
Bill Sampson? He's  he's a director.
He's the best.
He'll agree with you. Tell me, what do you between the time Margo goes in and comes out? Just huddle in that doorway and wait?
Oh, no. I see the play.
You see the play? You've seen the play every performance? But, don't you find it  I mean apart from everything else  don't you find it expensive?
Standing room doesn't cost much. I manage.
I'm going to take you to Margo...
Oh, no...
She's got to meet you
No, I'd be imposing on her, I'd be just another tonguetied gushing fan...
There isn't another like you, there couldn't be
But if I'd known... maybe some other time... I mean, looking like this.
You look just fine... ... by the way. What's your name?
Eve. Eve Harrington.
I thought you'd forgotten about me.
Not at all. Margo, this is Eve Harrington.
Hello, Miss Channing.
My husband...
If I only knew how...
Try...
Well...
Eve... why don't you start at the beginning?
It couldn't possibly interest you.
You're not going, are you?
I think I'd better. It's been  well, I can hardly find the words to say how it's been...
Good night, Eve. I hope I see you again soon
I'll be at the old stand, tomorrow matinee
Not just that way. As a friend...
I'd like that.
Now who's show up at this hour? It's time people went home  hold that coat up... ... whose is it?
Some Hollywood movie star, her plane got in late.
Discouraging, isn't it? Women with furs like that where it never gets cold...
Hollywood.
Tell me, Eve  how are things with you? Happy?
There should be a new word for happiness. Being here with Miss Channing has been  I just can't say, she's been so wonderful, done so much for me
Lloyd says Margo compensates for underplaying on the stage by overplaying reality... ... next to that sable, my new mink seems like an old bedjacket... ... you've done your share, Eve. You've worked wonders with Margo...
Mrs. Richards.
Karen.
Karen... ... isn't it awful, I'm about to ask you for another favor  after all you've already done.
Nobody's done so much, Eve, you've got to stop thinking of yourself as one of the Hundred Neediest Cases... what is it?
Well... Miss Channing's affairs are in such good shape... there isn't enough to keep me as busy as I should be, really  not that I've ever considered anything that would take me away from her... but the other day  when I heard Mr. Fabian tell Miss Channing that her understudy was going to have a baby, and they'd have to replace her...
... you want to be Margo's new understudy.
I don't let myself think about it, even  but I do know the part so well, and every bit of the staging, there'd be no need to break in a new girl  but suppose I had to go on one night? To an audience that came to see Margo Channing. No, I couldn't possibly...
Don't worry too much about that. Margo just doesn't miss performances. If she can walk, crawl or roll  she plays.
The show must go on.
No, dear. Margo must go on. As a matter of fact, I see no reason why you shouldn't be Margo's understudy...
Do you think Miss Channing would approve?
I think she would cheer.
But Mr. Richards and Mr. Sampson
They'll do as they're told.
Then  would you talk to Mr. Fabian about it?
Of course.
You won't forget it?
I won't forget.
I seem to be forever thanking you for something, don't I?
You mustn't mind Margo too much, even if I do...
But there must be some reason, something I've done without knowing...
The reason is Margo and don't try to figure it out. Einstein couldn't.
If I thought I'd offended her, of all people
Eve. I'm fond of Margo too. But I know Margo. And every now and then there is nothing I want to do so much as to kick her right square in the pants.
Well  if she's got to pick on someone, I'd just as soon it was me.
Karen... ... you won't forget, will you? What we talked about before?
No, Eve, I won't forget...
May I have your coat?
Don't bother, I can take it up myself...
Please...
Eve. I've heard the most wonderful things about your performance
Mostly relief that I managed to stagger through it at all...
We're having lunch with a movie talent scout.
They certainly don't waste much time.
Nothing definite yet  it's just to have lunch.
I was wondering whether you'd come at all..
Don't get up. And don't act as if I were the queen mother.
I don't expect you to be pleasant.
I don't intend to be.
Can't we sit down? Just for a minute...
I've got a lot to say. And none of it is easy.
There can't be very much
Oh, but there is
 and easy or not, I won't believe a word.
Why shouldn't you? Please sit down.
You know, I've always considered myself a very clever girl. Smart. Good head on my shoulders, that sort of thing, never the wrong word at the wrong time... but then, I'd never met Addison deWitt. I remember once I had a tooth pulled. They gave me some anaesthetic  I don't remember the name  and it affected me in a strange way. I heard myself saying things I wasn't even thinking... as if my mind were someplace outside of my body, and couldn't control what I did or said
 and you felt just like that talking to Addison.
In a way. You find yourself trying to say what you mean, but somehow the words change  and they become his words  and suddenly you're not saying what you mean, but what he means
Do you expect me to believe that you didn't say any of those things  that they were all Addison?
No! I don't expect you to believe anything. Except that the responsibility is mine. And the disgrace.
Let's not get overdramatic.
You've really got a low opinion of me, haven't you? We'll I'll give you some pleasant news. I've been told off in no uncertain terms all over town. Miss Channing should be happy to hear that. To know how loyal her friends are  how much more loyal they are than she had a right to expect me to be...
Eve... don't cry.
I'm not crying.
Tell me. How did your lunch turn out  with the man from Hollywood?
Some vague promises of a test, that's all  if a particular part should come along, one of those things
But the raves about your performance
 an understudy's performance.
Well. I think you're painting the picture a little darker than it is, really. If nothing else  and don't underestimate him  you have a powerful friend in Addison.
He's not my friend. You were my friends...
He can help you.
I wish I'd never met him, I'd like him to be dead... I want my friends back.
Eve. I  I don't think you meant to cause unhappiness. But you did. More to yourself, perhaps  as it turned out  than to anyone else...
I'll never get over it.
Yes, you will. You Theater people always do. Nothing is forever in the Theater. Love or hate, success or failure  whatever it is, it's here, it flares up and burns hot  and then it's gone.
I wish I could believe that.
Give yourself time. Don't worry too much about what people think, you're very young and very talented... ... and, believe it or not, if there's anything I can do
I think I know...
Something most important you can do.
You want to play "Cora." You want me to tell Lloyd I think you should play it.
If you told him so, he'd give me the part. He said he would.
After all you've said... don't you know the part was written for Margo?
It could have been  fifteen years ago. It's my part now.
You talk just as Addison said you did.
"Cora" is my part. You've got to tell Lloyd it's for me.
I don't think anything in the world could make me say that.
Addison wants me to play it.
Over my dead body...
That won't be necessary. Addison knows how Margo happen to miss that performance  how I happened to know she'd miss it in time to call him and notify every paper in town... ... it's quite a story. Addison could make quite a thing of it  imagine how snide and vicious he could get and still write nothing but the truth. I had a time persuading him... ... you'd better sit down. You look a bit wobbly. If I play "Cora," Addison will never tell what happened  in or out of print. A simple exchange of favors. And I'm so happy I can do something for you  at long last... Your friendship with Margo  your deep, close friendship  what would happen to it, do you think, if she knew the chap trick you'd played on her  for my benefit? And you and Lloyd  how long, even in the Theater, before people forgot what happened  and trusted you again? No... it would be so much easier on everyone concerned, if I were to play "Cora." And so much better theater, too...
A part in a play. You'd do all that  just for a part in a play.
I'd do much more  for a part that good.
She knows enough not to be here.
But not all of it  not that Lloyd and I are going to be married.
Congratulations, Eve.
Thank you, Karen.
Who are you?
Miss Harrington...
What are you doing here?
I  I guess I fell asleep.
Please don't have me arrested, please! I didn't steal anything  you can search me!
How did you get in here?
I hid outside in the hall till the maid came to turn down your bed. She must've forgot something and when she went to get it, she left the door open. I sneaked in and hid till she finished. Then I just looked around  and pretty soon I was afraid somebody'd notice the lights were on so I turned them off  and then I guess, I fell asleep.
You were just looking around...
That's all.
What for?
You probably won't believe me.
Probably not.
It was for my report.
What report? To whom?
About how you live, what kind of clothes you wear  what kind of perfume and books  things like that. You know the Eve Harrington clubs  that they've got in most of the girls' high schools?
I've heard of them.
Ours was one of the first. Erasmus Hall. I'm the president.
Erasmus Hall. That's in Brooklyn, isn't it?
Lots of actresses come from Brooklyn. Barbara Stanwyck, Susan Hayward  of course, they're just movie stars.
You're going to Hollywood  aren't you? From the trunks you're packing, you must be going to stay a long time.
I might.
That spilled drink is going to ruin your carper.
The maid'll fix it in the morning.
I'll just pick up the broken glass.
Don't bother.
How'd you get all the way up here from Brooklyn?
Subway.
How long does it take?
With changing and everything, a little over an hour.
It's after one now. You won't get home till all hours.
I don't care if I never get home.
That's the door.
You rest. I'll get it...
It was Fort Sumter they fired on
I never played Fort Sumter.
You need new girdles.
Buy some.
The same size?
Of course!
Well. I guess a real tight girdle help when you're playin' a lunatic.
How do you do, my dear.
Oh, brother.
And this is my good friend and companion, Miss Birdie Coonan.
Oh, brother.
Miss Coonan...
I'm sure you must have things to do in the bathroom, Birdie dear.
If I haven't, I'll find something till you're normal.
There are some human experiences, Birdie, that do not take place in a vaudeville house  and that even a fifthrate vaudevillian should understand and respect! I want to apologize for Birdie's
You don't have to apologize for me! I'm sorry if I hurt your feelings. It's just my way of talkin'...
She, too, is a great admirer of yours.
Imagine. All this admiration in just one room.
Kill the people. Got your key?
See you home...
You bought the new girdles a size smaller. I can feel it.
Something maybe grew a size bigger.
When we get home you're going to get into one of those girdles and act for two and half hours.
I couldn't get into the girdle in two an' a half hours...
Adorable. We now got everything a dressing room needs except a basketball hoop.
Just because you can't even work a zipper. It was very thoughtful, Eve, and I appreciate it
If I may so bold as to say something  did you ever hear the word "union"?
Behind in your dues? How much?
I haven't got a union. I'm slave labor.
Well?
But the wardrobe women have got one. And next to a tenor, a wardrobe woman is the touchiest thing in show business
Ohoh.
She's got two things to do  carry clothes an' press 'em wrong  an' just let anybody else muscle in...
Birdie
Hmm?
You don't like Eve, do you?
Do you want an argument or an answer?
An answer.
No.
Why not?
Now you want an argument.
She works hard.
Night an' day.
She's loyal and efficient
Like an agent with one client.
She thinks only for me... ... doesn't she?
Well... let's say she thinks only about you, anyway...
How do you mean that?
I'll tell you how. Like  let's see  like she was studyin' you, like you were a play or a book or a set of blueprints. How you walk, talk, think, eat, sleep
I'm sure that's very flattering, Birdie, and I'm sure there's nothing wrong with that!
You all put together?
My back's open. Did the extra help get here?
There's some loose characters dressed like maids and butlers. Who'd you call  the William Morris Agency?
You're not being funny, I could get actors for less. What about the food?
The caterer had to back for hors d'oeuvres Voila.
That French ventriloquist taught you a lot, didn't he?
There was nothing he didn't know. There's a message from the bartender. Does Miss Channing know we ordered domestic gin by mistake?
The only thing I ordered by mistake is the guests. They're domestic, too, and they don't care what they drink as long as it burns... where's Bill? He's late.
Late for what?
Don't be dense. The party.
I ain't dense. And he's been here twenty minutes.
Well, I certainly think it's odd he hasn't even come up...
Lemme fix you a drink.
No thanks, Birdie.
Margo does not play a lunatic, Birdie.
I know. She just keeps hearin' her dead father play the banjo.
The bed looks like a dead animal act. Which one is sables?
But she just got here...
She's on her way. With half the men in the joint. It's only a fur coat...
What did you expect  live sables?
A diamond collar, gold sleeves  you know, picture people...
Bill says actors out there eat just as infrequently as here
They can always grab oranges off trees. This you can't do in Times Square...
Hello, what's your name?
Eve. Eve Harrington.
You said fortyseven minutes. You'll never make it.
I told you a lie. We'll make it easily. Margo's got no more conception of time than a halibut.
Why?
I just wondered.
Just wondered what?
Why.
Why what?
Why you have to go out there.
I don't have to. I want to.
Is it the money?
Eighty percent of it will go for taxes.
Then why? Why, if you're the best and most successful young director in the Theater
The Theatuh, the Theatuh  what book of rules says the Theater exists only within some ugly buildings crowded into one square mile of New York City? Or London, Paris or Vienna? Listen, junior. And learn. Want to know what the Theater is? A flea circus. Also opera. Also rodeos, carnivals, ballets, Indian tribal dances, Punch and Judy, a oneman band  all Theater. Wherever there's magic and makebelieve and an audience  there's Theater. Donald Duck, Ibsen, and The Lone Ranger, Sarah Bernhardt, Poodles Hanneford, Lunt and Fontanne, Betty Grable, Rex and Wild, and Eleanora Duse. You don't understand them all, you don't like them all, why should you? The Theater's for everybody  you included, but not exclusively  so don't approve or disapprove. It may not be your Theater, but it's Theater of somebody, somewhere.
I just asked a simple question.
And I shot my mouth off. Nothing personal, junior, no offense... ... it's just that there's so much bushwah in this Ivory Green Room they call the Theatuh  sometimes it gets up around my chin...
But Hollywood. You mustn't stay there.
It's only one picture deal.
So few come back...
Yeah. They keep you under drugs out there with armed guards...
I read George Jean Nathan every week.
Also Addison deWitt.
Every day.
You didn't have to tell me.
Ah...
I have a suggestion. There's really not much time left  I mean, you haven't had a minute alone yet, and  well, I could take care of everything here and meet you at the gate with the ticket... if you'd like.
I think we'd like very much. Sure you won't mind?
Of course not.
Thanks for your help... good luck.
Goodbye, Mr. Sampson.
Yes. Yes, it does.
It means concentration of ambition, desire, and sacrifice such as no other profession demands... And I'll agree that the man or woman who accepts those terms can't be ordinary, can't be  just someone. To give so much for almost always so little...
 little things here and there, it doesn't matter. You can be proud of yourself, you've got a right to be.
Are you proud of me, Bill?
I'll admit I was worried when Max called. I had my doubts.
You shouldn't have had any doubts.
 after all, the other day was one scene, the woods are full of one scene sensations. But you did it. With work and patience, you'll be a fine actress. If that's what you want to be.
Is that what you want me to be?
I'm talking about you. And what you want.
So am I.
What have I got to do with it?
Everything.
The names I've been called. But never Svengali. Good luck.
Don't run away, Bill.
From what would I be running?
You're always after truth  on the stage. What about off?
I'm for it.
Then face it. I have. Since that first night  here  in the dressing room.
When I told you what every young actress should know.
When you told me that whatever I became, it would be because of you
Your makeup's a little heavy.
 and for you.
You're quite a girl.
You think?
I'm in love with Margo. Hadn't you heard?
You hear all kinds of things.
I'm only human, rumors to the contrary. And I'm as curious as the next man...
Find out.
Only thing, what I go after, I want to go after. I don't want it to come after me.
Fortyfive minutes from now my plane takes off and how do I find you? Not ready yet, looking like a junk yard
Thank you so much.
Is it sabotage, does my career mean nothing to you? Have you no human consideration?
Show me a human and I might have!
Only in some ways. You're prettier...
I'm a junk yard.
Hi. My wonderful junk yard. The mystery and dreams you find in a junk yard
Heaven help me, I love a psychotic.
Oh well... ... look through the wigs, maybe it got caught
Real diamonds in a wig. The world we live in...
Where's my coat?
Can't keep his eyes off my legs.
Like a nylon lemon peel
Byron couldn't have said it more graciously... here we go
She's quite a girl, that what'sher name...
Eve. I'd forgotten they grew that way...
The lack of pretense, that sort of strange directness and understanding
Did she tell you about the Theater and what it meant?
I told her. I sounded off.
All the religions in the world rolled into one, and we're Gods and Goddesses... isn't it silly, suddenly I've developed a big protective feeling for her  a lamb loose in our big stone jungle...
Take care of yourself out there...
I understand they've got the Indians pretty well in hand...
Bill...
Huh?
Don't get stuck on some glamour puss
I'll try.
You're not such a bargain, you know, conceited and thoughtless and messy
Everybody can't be Gregory Peck.
 you're a setup for some gorgeous wideeyed young babe.
How childish are you going to get before you quit it?
I don't want to be childish, I'd settle for just a few years
And cut that out right now.
Am I going to lose you, Bill? Am I?
As of this moment you're six years old...
Knit me a muffler.
Call me when you get in...
What a thoughtful, everlovin' thing to do
Bill? Have I gone crazy, Bill?
You're my girl, aren't you?
That I am...
Then you're crazy.
When  when are you coming back?
I leave in a week  the picture's all wrapped up, we previewed last night... those previews. Like opening out of town, but terrifying. There's nothing you can do, you're trapped, you're in a tin can
 in a tin can, cellophane or wrapped in a Navajo blanket, I want you home...
You in a hurry?
A big hurry, be quick about it  so good night, darling, and sleep tight...
Wait a minute! You can't hang up, you haven't even said it
Bill, you know how much I do  but over the phone, now really, that's kid stuff...
Kid stuff or not, it doesn't happen every day, I want to heat it  and if you won't say it, you can sing it...
Sing it?
Sure! Like the Western Union boys used to do...
Bill... Bill, it's your birthday.
And who remembered it? Who was there on the dot, at twelve midnight...?
Happy birthday, darling...
The reading could have been better, but you said it  now "many happy returns of the day..."
Many happy returns of the day...
I get a party, don't I?
Of course, birthday and welcome home... who'll I ask?
It's no secret, I know all about the party  Eve wrote me...
She did...?
She hasn't missed a week since I left  but you know all that, you probably tell her what to write... anyway, I sent her a list of people to ask  check with her.
Yeah... I will.
How is Eve? Okay?
Okay.
I love you...
I'll check with Eve...
What?
I love you too. Good night, darling
See you...
Outside of a beehive, Margo, your behavior would hardly be considered either queenly or motherly!
You're in a beehive, pal, didn't you know? We're all busy little bees, full of stings, making honey day and night  aren't we, honey?
It's a good thought.
It won't play.
Happy little housewife...
Cut it out.
This is my house, not a theater! In my house you're a guest, not a director!
Need any help?
To put me to bed? Take my clothes off, hold my head, tuck me in, turn off the lights, tiptoe out...? eve would. Wouldn't you, Eve?
Don't let me kill the point. Or isn't it a story for grownups?
You've heard it. About when I looked through the wrong end of a camera finder.
Remind me to tell you about when I looked into the heart of an artichoke.
Looks like I'm going to have a very fancy party...
I thought you were going to be late
When I'm guest of honor?
I had no idea you were even here.
I ran into Eve on my way upstairs; she told me you were dressing.
That never stopped you before.
Well, we started talking, she wanted to know all about Hollywood, she seemed so interested...
She's a girl of so many interests.
It's a pretty rare quality these days.
She's a girl of so many rare qualities.
So she seems.
So you've pointed out, so often. So many qualities, so often. Her loyalty, efficiency, devotion, warmth, affection  and so young. So young and so fair...
I can't believe you're making this up  it sounds like something out of an old Clyde Fitch play...
Clyde Fitch, thought you may not think so, was well before my time!
I've always denied the legend that you were in 'Our American Cousin' the night Lincoln was shot...
I don't think that's funny!
Of course it's funny  this is all too laughable to be anything else. You know what I think about this  this age obsession of yours  and now this ridiculous attempt to whip yourself up into a jealous froth because I spent ten minutes with a stagestruck kid
Twenty minutes!
Thirty minutes, forty minutes! What of it?
Stagestruck kid... she's a young lady  of qualities. And I'll have you know I'm fed up with both the young lady and her qualities! Studying me as if  as if I were a play or a set of blueprints! How I walk, talk, think, eat, sleep!
Now how can you take offense at a kid trying in every way to be as much like her ideal as possible!
Stop calling her a kid! It so happens there are particular aspects of my life to which I would like to maintain sole and exclusive rights and privileges!
For instance what?
For instance  you!
This is my cue to take you in my arms and reassure you  but I'm not going to. I'm too mad
 guilty.
Mad! Darling, there are certain characteristics for which you are famous  on stage and off. I love you for some of them  and in spite of others. I haven't let those become too important to me. They're part of your equipment for getting along in what is laughably called out environment  you've got to keep your teeth sharp. All right. But you will not sharpen them on me  or on Eve...
What about her teeth? What about her fangs?
She hasn't cut them yet, and you know it! So when you start judging an idealistic dreamyeyed kid by the barroom, Benzedrine standards of this megalomaniac society  I won't have it! Eve Harrington has never by word, look, thought or suggestion indicated anything to me but her adoration for you and her happiness at our being in love! And to intimate anything else doesn't spell jealousy to me  it spells a paranoic insecurity that you should be ashamed of!
Cut! Print it! What happens in the next reel? Do I get dragged off screaming to the snake pit?
Thank you.
Nothing, really...
The kid  junior, that is  will be right down. Unless you'd like to take her drink up to her...
I can always get a fresh one. Karen  you're a Gibson girl...
Many of your guests have been wondering when they may be permitted to view the body. Where has it been laid out?
It hasn't been laid out, we haven't finished with the embalming. As a matter of fact, you're looking at it. The remains of Margo Channing. Sitting up. It is my last wish to be buried sitting up.
Wouldn't you feel more natural taking a bow?
You know nothing about feelings, natural or unnatural.
Then without feeling, your guests were also wondering whether the music couldn't be a shade more on the  shall we say, happier side?
If my guests do not like it here, I suggest they accompany you to the nursery where I'm sure you will all feel more at home.
No heart to burn.
Everybody has a heart  except some people. Of course I've got bicarb. There's a box in the pantry. We'll put your name on it. Max Fabian. It'll say there. Always. Just for you.
It's all over.
What's all over?
The audition.
Eve? How enchanting... Wherever did you get the idea of having Eve read with Miss Caswell?
What fire and music?
You wouldn't understand. How was Miss Caswell?
Addison!
So full of meaning, fire and music!
And you, I take it, are the Paderewski who plays his concerto on me, the piano? Where is Princess FireandMusic?
Who?
The kid. Junior.
Gone.
I must have frightened her away.
I wouldn't be surprised. Sometimes you frighten me.
Poor little flower. Just dropped her petals and folded her tent...
Don't mix your metaphors.
I mix what I like.
Okay. Mix.
I'm nothing but a body with a voice. No mind.
What a body, what a voice.
The exship news' reporter. No body, no voice, all mind!
The gong rang. The fight's over. Calm down.
I will not calm down!
Don't calm down.
You're being terribly tolerant, aren't you?
I'm trying terribly hard.
Well, you needn't. I will not be tolerated. And I will not be plotted against!
Here we go...
Such nonsense, what do you all take me for  little Nell from the country? Been my understudy for over a week without my knowing, carefully hidden no doubt
Now don't get carried away
 shows up for an audition when everyone knew I'd be here... and gives a performance! Out of nowhere  gives a performance!
You've been all through that with Lloyd
The playwright doesn't make the performance  and it doesn't just happen! And this one didn't  full of fire and music and whatnot, it was carefully rehearsed I have no doubt, over and over, full of those Bill Sampson touches!
I am sick and tired of these paranoiac outbursts!
Paranoiac!
I didn't know Eve Harrington was your understudy until half past two this afternoon!
Tell that to Dr. Freud! Along with the rest of it...
No, I'll tell it to you! For the last time, I'll tell it to you. Because you've got to stop hurting yourself, and me, and the two of us by these paranoiac tantrums!
That word again! I don't even know what it means...
It's time you found out. I love you. I love you. You're a beautiful and intelligent woman  a beautiful and intelligent woman and a great actress  at the peak of her career. You have every reason for happiness  every reason, but due to some strange, uncontrollable, unconscious drive you permit the slightest action of a kid  kid like Eve to turn you into a hysterical, screaming harpy! Now once and for all, stop it!
It's obvious you're not a woman.
I've been aware of that for some time.
Well, I am.
I'll say.
Don't be condescending.
Come on, get up. I'll buy you a drink.
I admit I may have seen better days, but I am still not to be had for the price of a cocktail  like a salted peanut.
Margo, let's make peace.
The terms are too high. Unconditional surrender.
Just being happy? Just stopping all this nonsense about Eve  and Eve and me?
It's not nonsense.
But if I tell you it is  as I just did. Were you listening to me? Isn't that enough?
I wish it were.
Then what would be enough? If we were married?
I wouldn't want you to marry me just to prove something.
You've had so many reasons for not wanting to marry me... Margo, tell me what's behind all this.
I  I don't know, Bill. Just a feeling, I don't know...
I think you do know but you won't or can't tell me. I said before it was going to be my last try, and I meant it. I can't think of anything else to do. I wish I could. We usually wind up screaming and throwing things as the curtain comes down. Then it comes up again and everything's fine. But not this time. You know there isn't a playwright in the world who could make me believe this would happen between two adult people. Goodbye, Margo.
Bill... ... where are you going? To find Eve?
That suddenly makes the whole thing believable.
The socalled art of acting is not one for which I have a particularly high regard...
Hear, hear...
But you may quote me as follows. Quote. Tonight Miss Margo Channing gave a performance in your cockamamie play, the like of which I have never seen before and expect rarely to see again. Unquote.
He does not exaggerate. I was good.
You were great.
To Margo. To my bridetobe.
Glory Hallelujah.
It's only for the license. There's a threeday wait  blood tests, things like that...
I'll marry you if it turns out you have no blood at all.
Something simple. A fur coat over a nightgown...
The point is  in the cathedral, a ball park or a penny arcade  we want to have you two beside us our nearest and dearest friends.
"Please forgive me for butting into what seems such a happy occasion  but it's most important that I speak with you. Please"  it's underlined  "meet me in the Ladies' Room. Eve."
I understand she is now the understudy in there.
Pass me the empty bottle. I may find her... why, look. There's Rasputin.
Groom  may I have a wedding present?
What would you like? Texas?
I want everybody to shut up about Eve. Just shut up about Eve, that's all I want. Give Karen more wine... ... never have I been so happy. Isn't this a lovely room? The Cub Room. What a lovely, clever name. Where the elite meet. Never have I seen so much elite  and all with their eyes on me. Waiting for me to crack that little gnome over the noggin with a bottle. But not tonight. Even Eve. I forgive Eve... there they go.
There goes Eve. Eve evil, Little Miss Evil. But the evil that men do  how does it go, groom? Something about the good they leave behind  I played it once in rep in Wilkes Barre...
You've got it backwards. Even for WilkesBarre.
You know why I forgive Eve? Because she's left good behind  the four of us, together like this, it's Eve's fault  I forgive her...
Never try to outguess Margo.
Groom.
Yes, dear.
You know what I'm going to be?
A cowboy.
A married lady.
With the paper to prove it.
I'm going to have a home. Not just a house I'm afraid to stay in... and a man to go with it. I'll look up at six o'clock  and there he'll be... remember, Karen?
Often enough to keep the franchise.
A foursquare, upright, downright, forthright married lady... that's for me. And no more make believe! Off stage or on... remember, Lloyd. I mean it, now. Grownup women only, I might even play a mother  only one child, of course, not over eight... Lloyd, will you promise not to be angry with me?
Bill...
The air lines have clocks, even if you haven't! I start shooting a week from Monday  Zanuck is impatient, he wants me, he needs me!
Bill
Bill!
Huh?
This is Eve Harrington.
You've already met.
Where?
Right here. A minute ago.
That's nice.
Good luck, genius...
Geniuses don't need good luck. I do.
Macbeth.
We know you, we've seen you before like this. Is it over  or just beginning?
I guess at this point I'm what the French call 'de trop'...
Maybe just a little around the edges.
When? When are you going to do it?
Tomorrow we meet at City Hall at ten  and you're going to be on time.
Nothing?
Everything... everything's so funny...
I distinctly remember striking your name from the guest list. What are you doing here?
Dear Margo. You were an unforgettable Peter Pan  you must play it again, soon. You remember Miss Caswell?
I do not. How do you do?
Eve, this is an old friend of Mr. deWitt's mother  Miss Caswell, Miss Harrington... Addison, I've been wanting you to meet Eve for the longest time
It could only have been your natural timidity that kept you from mentioning it...
You've heard of her great interest in the Theater
We have that in common.
Then you two must have a long talk
You mustn't worry about your little charge. She is in safe hands.
Amen.
Why so remote, Addison? I should think you'd be at the side of your protegee, lending her moral support...
Miss Caswell, at the moment, is where I can lend no support  moral or otherwise.
The ladies'  shall we say  lounge?
Being violently ill to her tummy.
It's good luck before an audition. She'll be all right once it starts.
Miss Caswell got lucky too late. The audition is over.
Over? It can't be. I've come to read with her. I promised Max.
The audition was called for 2:30. It is now nearly four.
Is it really? I must start wearing a watch, I never do, you know... who read with Miss Caswell? Bill? Lloyd? Well, it couldn't have been Max! Who?
Naturally enough, your understudy.
I consider it highly unnatural to allow a girl in an advanced state of pregnancy
I refer to your new and unpregnant understudy. Eve Harrington.
Eve! My understudy...
Didn't you know?
Of course I knew.
It just slipped your mind.
How... how was Miss Caswell?
Frankly, I don't remember.
Just slipped your mind.
Completely. Nor, I am sure, could anyone else present tell you how Miss Caswell read or whether Miss Caswell read or rode a pogo stick.
Was she that bad?
Margo, as you know, i have lived in the Theater as a Trappist monk lives in his faith. I have no other world, no other life  and once in a great while I experience that moment of Revelation for which all true believers wait and pray. You were one. Jeanne Eagels another... Paula Wessely... Hayes  there are others, three or four. Eve Harrington will be among them...
I take it she read well.
It wasn't reading, it was a performance. Brilliant, vivid, something made of music and fire...
How nice.
In time she'll be what you are.
A mass of music and fire. That's me. An old kazoo and some sparkles. Tell me  was Bill swept away, too, or were you too full of Revelation to notice?
Bill didn't say  but Lloyd was beside himself. He listened to his play as if someone else had written it, he said, it sounded so fresh, so new, so full of meaning...
How nice for Lloyd. And how nice for Eve. How nice for everybody.
Eve was incredibly modest. She insisted that no credit was due her, that Lloyd felt as he did only because she read lines exactly as he had written them.
The implication being that I have not been reading them as written.
To the best of my recollection, neither your name nor your performance entered the conversation.
Then stop being a star  start treating your guests as your supporting cast!
Hear, hear...
She was magnificent.
Then you've heard too.
I was there. An eyewitness.
You were there? At the play  last night?
A happy coincidence.
From the smartness of your dress, I take it your luncheon companion is a lady?
Margo.
Margo? Lunching in public?
It's new Margo. But she's just as late as the old one.
She may be later than you think...
It is senseless to insist that theatrical folk in New York, Hollywood and London are no different from the good people of Des Moines, Chillicothe and Liverpool. By and large, we are concentrated gatherings of neurotics, egomaniacs, emotional misfits, and precocious children
Gable. Why a feller like that don't come East to do a play...
Answer me this. What makes a man become a producer?
What makes a man walk into a lion cage with nothing but a chair?
This answer satisfies me a hundred percent.
We all have abnormality in common. We are a breed apart from the rest of the humanity, we Theater folk. We are the original displaced personalities...
In my case it's necessary. Too many taxi drivers write plays.
And too many of them are produced.
I'm giving her a very highclass party. It ain't like a rehearsal, she don't have to be late.
As soon as the peasants stop pawing her.
Every now and then, some elder statesman of the Theater or cinema assures the public that actors and actresses are just plain folk. Ignoring the fact that their greatest attraction to the public is their complete lack of resemblance to normal human beings.
Now there's something a girl could make sacrifices for.
That isn't a waiter, my dear. That's a butler.
Well, I can't yell "Oh, butler," can I? Maybe somebody's name is Butler...
You have a point. An idiotic one, but a point.
I don't want to make trouble. All I want is a drink.
Let's go sit by the piano.
You have me confused with Dan Dailey. You go sit by the piano. And you come sit by me. Good night.
We never met. That's why.
Miss Caswell is an actress. A graduate of Copacabana School of Dramatic Arts. Ah... Eve.
This must be, at long last, our formal introduction. Until now we have met only in passing...
That's how you met me. In passing.
Claudia dear, come closer. This is Max Fabian. He is a producer. Go do yourself some good.
Why do they always look like unhappy rabbits?
Because that is what they are. Go make him happy.
Feeling better, my dear?
Like I just swam the English Channel. Now what?
You next move, it seems to me, should be toward television.
Tell me this. Do they have auditions for television?
That's all television is, my dear. Nothing but auditions.
May I come in?
Certainly, Mr. deWitt...
I expected to find this little room overcrowded, with a theater full of people at your feet...
I consider myself lucky they didn't throw things.
Of course your performance was no surprise to me. After the other day I regarded it as no more than  a promised fulfilled.
You're more than kind. But it's still Miss Channing's performance. I'm just a carbon copy you read when you can't find the original...
You're more than modest.
It's not modesty. I just don't try to kid myself.
A revolutionary approach to the Theater. However, if I may a suggestion...
Please do.
I think the time has come for you to shed some of your humility. It is just as false not to blow your horn at all as it is to blow it too loudly...
I don't think I've done anything to sound off about.
We all come into this world with our little egos equipped with individual horns. If we don't blow them  who will?
Even so. One isolated pretty good performance by an understudy. It'll be forgotten tomorrow.
It needn't be.
Even if I wanted to  as you say  be less humble, blow my own horn... how would I do it? I'm less than nobody.
I am somebody.
After you change, if you're not busy elsewhere, we can have supper.
I'd love to! Or should I pretend I'm busy?
Let's have a minimum of pretending. I'll want to do a column about you
I'm not enough for a paragraph.
 perhaps more than one. There's so much I want to know. I've heard your story in bits and pieces... your home in Wisconsin, your tragic marriage, your financial attachment to Margo  it started in San Francisco, didn't it? I say  your idolatry of Margo started in San Francisco, didn't it?
That's right.
San Francisco. An oasis of civilization in the California desert. Tell me, do you share my high opinion of San Francisco?
Yes. I do.
And that memorable night when Margo first dazzled you from the stage  which theater was it in San Francisco? Was it  the Shubert?
Yes. The Shubert.
A fine old theater, the Shubert. Full of tradition, untouched by the earthquake  so sorry  fire... by the way, what was your husband's name?
Eddie...
Eddie what?
I'm about to go into the shower, I won't be able to hear you...
I can wait. Where would you like to go? We'll make this a special night...
You take charge.
I believe I will.
Hungry?
Just some coffee.
I'm not surprised. After all that humble pie...
Nothing of the kind. Karen and I had a nice talk.
Heart to heart? Woman to woman? Including a casual reference to the part of "Cora"  and your hopes of playing it.
I discussed it very openly. I told her that I had spoken to Lloyd  and that he was interested.
She mentioned, of course, that Margo expects to play the part?
Oddly enough  she didn't say a word about Margo. Just that she'll be happy to do what she can to see that I play the part.
Just like that, eh?
Just like that.
Do you know, Eve  sometimes I think you keep things from me.
I don't think that's funny.
It wasn't meant to be.
I confide in you and rely on you more than anyone I've ever known! To say a thing like that now  without any reason  when I need you more than ever...
I hope you mean what you say, Eve. I intend to hold you to it.
What a day  what a heavenly day...
Dday.
Just like it.
And tomorrow morning you will have won your beachhead on the shores of Immortality...
Stop rehearsing your column... Isn't it strange, Addison? I thought I'd be panicstricken, want to run away or something. Instead, I can't wait for tonight to come. To come and go...
Are you that sure of tomorrow?
Aren't you?
Frankly  yes.
It'll be a night to remember. It'll bring to me everything I've ever wanted. The end of an old road  and the beginning of a new one...
All paved with diamonds and gold?
You know me better than that.
Paved with what, then?
Stars.
What time?
Almost four.
Plenty of time for a nice long nap  we rehearsed most of last night...
You could sleep, too, couldn't you?
Why not?
The mark of a true killer. Sleep tight, rest easy  and come out fighting...
Why'd call me a killer?
Did I say killer? I meant champion. I get my boxing terms mixed.
Suites are for expense accounts. Aren't you being extravagant?
Max is paying for it. He and Lloyd had a terrific row but Lloyd insisted... well. Can I fix you a drink?
Also with the reluctant compliments of Max Fabian.
Lloyd. I never have any, and he likes a couple of drinks after we finish  so he sent it up...
Some plain soda. Lloyd must be expecting a record run in New Haven...
That's for tonight. You're invited. We're having everyone up after the performance.
We're?
Lloyd and I.
Addison...
She's always been so fantastically devoted to Lloyd. I would imagine that only death or destruction could keep her
Addison, just a few minutes ago. When I told you this would be a night to remember  that it would bring me everything I wanted
 something about an old road ending and a new one starting  paved with stars...
I didn't mean just the Theater.
What else?
So that's it. Lloyd. Still just the Theater, after all...
It's nothing of the kind! Lloyd loves me, I love him!
I know nothing about Lloyd and his loves  I leave those to Louisa May Alcott. But I do know you.
I'm in love with Lloyd!
Lloyd Richards is commercially the most successful playwright in America
You have no right to say such things!
 and artistically, the most promising! Eve dear, this is Addison.
Addison, won't it be just perfect? Lloyd and I  there's no telling how far we can go... he'll write great plays for me, I'll make them be great! You're the only one I've told, the only one that knows except Lloyd and me...
... and Karen.
She doesn't know.
I see. And when was this unholy alliance joined?
We decided the night before last, before we came up here...
Was the setting properly romantic  the lights on dimmers, gypsy violins off stage?
The setting wasn't romantic, but Lloyd was. He woke me up at three in the morning, banging on my door  he couldn't sleep, he told me  he's left Karen, he couldn't go on with the play or anything else until I promised to marry him... we sat and talked until it was light. He never went home...
You sat and talked until it was light...
We sat and talked, Addison. I want a run of the play contract.
There never was, there'll never be another like you.
Well, say something  anything! Congratulations, skol  good work, Eve!
What do you take me for?
I don't know what I take you for anything...
It is possible  even conceivable  that you've confused me with that gang of backward children you've been playing tricks on  that you have the same contempt for me that you have for them?
I'm sure you mean something by that, Addison, but I don't know what...
Look closely, Eve, it's time you did. I am Addison deWitt. I'm nobody's fool. Least of all  yours.
I never intended you to be.
Yes, you did. You still do.
I still don't know what you're getting at. Right now I want to take my nap. It's important that I
 it's important right now that we talk. Killer to killer.
Champion to champion.
Not with me, you're no champion. You're stepping way up in class.
Addison, will you please say what you have to say plainly and distinctly  and then get out so I can take my nap!
Very well, plainly and distinctly. Although I consider it unnecessary  because you know as well as I, what I am about to say. Lloyd may leave Karen, but he will not leave Karen for you.
What do you mean by that?
More plainly and more distinctly? I Have not come to New Haven to see the play, discuss your dreams, or to pull the ivy from the walls of Yale! I have come to tell you that you will not marry Lloyd  or anyone else  because I will not permit it.
What have you got to do with it?
Everything. Because after tonight, you will belong to me.
I can't believe my ears...
A dull cliche.
Belong  to you? That sound medieval  something out of an old melodrama...
So does the history of the world for the past twenty years. I don't enjoy putting it as bluntly as this, frankly I had hoped that you would, somehow, have known  have taken it for granted that you and I...
... taken it for granted? That you and I...
You're too short for that gesture. Besides, it went out with Mrs. Fiske.
Then if you won't get out, I'll have you thrown out.
Your name is not Eve Harrington. It is Gertrude Slescynski.
What of it?
It is true that your parents were poor. They still are. And they would like to know how you are  and where. They haven't heard from you for three years...
What of it?
A matter of opinion. Granted. It is also true that you worked in a brewery. But life in the brewery was apparently not as dull as you pictured it. As a matter of fact, it got less and less dull  until you boss's wife had your boss followed by detectives!
She never proved anything, not a thing!
But the $500 you got to get out of town brought you straight to New York  didn't it?
She was a liar, she was a liar!
Answer my question! Weren't you paid to get out of town?
I had to get in, to meet Margo! I had to say something, be somebody, make her like me!
She did like you, she helped and trusted you! You paid her back by trying to take Bill away!
That's not true!
I was there, I saw you and heard you through the dressing room door!
You used my name and my column to blackmail Karen into getting you the part of "Cora"  and you lied to me about it!
Nonono...
I had lunch with Karen not three hours ago. As always with women who want to find out things, she told more than she learned... ... do you want to change your story about Lloyd beating at your door the other night?
Then say so.
Yes, Addison.
And you realize  you agree how completely you belong to me?
Yes, Addison.
Take your nap, now. And good luck for tonight.
I won't play tonight. I couldn't. Not possibly. I couldn't go on...
Couldn't go on? You'll give the performance of your life.
I don't suppose there's a drink left...
You can have one at Max's.
I don't think I'm going.
Why not?
Because I don't want to.
Max has gone to a great deal of trouble, it's going to be an elaborate party, and it's for you.
No, it's not. It's for this.
It's the same thing, isn't it?
Exactly. Here. Take it to the party instead of me.
You're being childish.
I'm tired. I want to go home.
Very well. I shall drop you and go on to the party. I have no intention of missing it...
Hello, there. Who are you?
Miss Harrington's resting, Mr. deWitt. She asked me to see who it is...
We won't disturb her rest. It seems she left her award in the taxicab. Will you give it to her?
How do you know my name?
It's a very famous name, Mr. deWitt.
And what is your name?
Phoebe.
Phoebe?
I call myself Phoebe.
Why not? Tell me, Phoebe, do you want some day to have an award like that of your own?
Where'd you leave them?
Camped out by the navibeacon out on Linson's Range. They're making their own way back tomorrow.
Jesus.
Yeah, exactly. Those're preprogrammed course adjustments you're looking at.
Tactical nukes, maybe?
How's it going?
Yeah, 'Good Evening' to you, too.
Today's party's finished their sweep, the relief team's out there now. Everybody else is either asleep or running shift in the autoshop.
You should hit the sack, too.
Nah, I'll stick it out for another hour or so.
What time's sundown?
'Bout five minutes.
Give me a yell is something happens.
You got it, cowboy.
See that sheathing on the suspension? Eaten away. Same thing with the pumps on the base air purifiers. The algae out here just isn't good on these new plastics.
We haven't used Big Bertha since we relocated the generator module. That was four months ago. I can't ask for them to keep bringing spares in on the shuttle, it's already costing too much as it is.
Hey, boss. Wondered where you'd gotten to.
I just... wanted to be put on my own for a while. Clear my head.
Didn't feel like whoopin' it up with the rest of us blue collars, huh?
I've got a lot of thinking to do. 'Sides, the room was getting too crowded for me.
Not too much of the socializing type, then?
No, not really. More sort of the 'claustrophobic' type.
I'm serious. That's why I switched from orbiting to planetary installations.
Is that a fact.
Uhhuh. Used to get it pretty bad. I'd wake up in a cold sweat and want to claw open a vacuum hatch.
How long you been out here for now, anyway? Three months?
Four.
And before that?
Six month stint on Datus.
Only six?
What is this? 'Twenty Questions'?
Just curious. There's a lot of talk goes around.
What is that?
Real man' drink.
Seltzer?
Want some?
Any luck raising Ackland's party?
Nothing. With the satellite down, we can't transmit over the mountain range. He's most likely sitting there wondering why he can't raise us.
First light, we'll take a chopper out there and tell them to head back.
'We'? You wanna fly out there with me?
Sure. Do me good to stretch my legs.
Don't worry about it. If the Network goes by the book, like everyone figures they will, a Marine gunboat from Powell'll dropby for a look see in fourorfive days. They can go poke around out there and find whatever it was hit us. All we've gotta do is sit tight.
Do you think Ackland'll sit tight?
There'd have to be a helluva good reason for him not to.
Yeah. Somebody won.
Check out the tent.
I've found Ackland!
Hold on...
I'm going to need you to cosign the report. Until we come up with something, this'll be treated as first degree murder.
Agreed.
When we get the link back, and I send this in, I.C.C.'ll throw a fit.
Ah, don't worry about I.C.C. They're the least of your problems right now.
What do you mean?
Think I spoke too soon...
Again? How long before we start noticing the difference?
Do you believe him?
Ackland? I don't know him well enough to say. If we were back on Earth we could run him though an Aldhoven test and find out for sure. There's not much we can do out here.
Cornering it shouldn't be a problem. Each part of this station is basically a selfsufficient deepspace transport module running off external couplers. If we disconnect them and seal off every section, we've got a ceiling of about thirtysix hours on internal power. That should give us ample time to find it.
Alright. Pull some trackers and headsets out of stores, and I'll sign a release for the weapons. Cassie, organise a team roster and put it on the board.
So, what do you think?
What do I think? I think if those Marines from Powell don't shift their butts getting here, we're gonna get caught up to our necks in the middle of something we shouldn't.
What?
I'm out of ammo. Get inside, get inside!
That's the wrong way!
Detour. Other way's blocked...
Hurry it up.
Don't wait for me!
They...they snapped my legs to fit... fit me in here. I don't...remember what happened next.
What can I do?
I can... feel it moving around inside me. You've got to kill me.
I... I can't!
You have to...
No!
That's what we thought.
Have you got an updated Lloyds' Almanac to crossreff them through?
Done it already. Nothing matches.
Fort Powell. What do we tell 'em?
Just give them the facts. They can leap to their own conclusions.
Already working on it.
Get off an allbands emergency distress, and put it on a repeater.
They've changed their heading again.
Compensate!
Punch me in a solution for their deltavee.
It left a melted trail on the deck all the way down to here...
What is that?
Central Pumping. All the waste gets treated, brokendown, and flushed out into the swamp. If it wanted a quick exit then it really lucked out.
You've checked that end?
Everything on this module is locked and sealed. We've lost 'B', 'C', and 'E' wings, but 'E' was the only one we didn't manage to totally evacuate.
How many... how many people are missing?
They knocked out the external feeds.
Looks like it.
Communications to autoshop go through an F.O. link off the main trunk. That's down with the other feeds.
Well... try the headset.
It's not all good news. We had to take off the helmet lights. You'll be going in blind.
What? Why?
There's still time to backout.
Forget it. I wouldn't ask somebody to do something I wouldn't do myself. Where's the disk?
Thanks.
Let's just run through it one more time so I know you've got it straight.
Okay, I pull the access panel off of the console. Insert the disk, and press the green enabling button...
Sorry. Two green enabling buttons...
Right. When you've done that, don't waste any time getting out of there. Once that crane starts moving...well, it's bound to provoke some kind of response.
Okay, we're in business.
Right. Autoshop, you all set?
Okay, I'm out of here!
Blow those suckers, Driscoll!
Hey, Jan. See if you can get someone to check out the chopper.
What's the problem?
She was running a little sluggish on the way back. Think the turbines might be playing up.
Give me twenty minutes and I'll do it myself.
Appreciate that.
And...?
And, nothing. They checked out just fine.
Shit! Our armory's a big blue box from the back shelf of stores. We got about two clips left for an autoloader, and that's it.
Autoshop?
That sounds promising. Can we operate the crane from here?
Nah. It's got programmable facilities, but it was never rigged for remote operation. Someone'd have to go up to the cab to get it up and running.
Which mean physically going outside.
Is this the suit?
Uhhuh.
Yeah, I stripped down a motion tracker and hardwired it through to the helmet pickups, too. That's also on the display.
Sounds great.
We had to. They were just too cumbersome for some of the conduits you're gonna have to negotiate. Besides, all the crap floating around reduces visibility to the extent where I doubt having helmet lights would have make that much difference, anyway. Maintenance lights down there oughta be enough to do the trick.
How tight are these shafts?
Miss Noguchi! You're wanted in admin.
Thanks.
What happened?
York just turned up outside. We're trying to get him into Infirmary.
Secondary fluidic shunt for the sewage system. I found the grating ripped right off. The little fucker was strong.
Where does that lead to?
Nobody wander off on their own until it's found. Keep in pairs. Diller, once the first team's done their sweep I want you to go down with Annie to ThreePump while she replaces it.
Okay.
One final point. Killing this sonuvabitch ought to be a reward in itself. However, just to add a little incentive... I'm authorizing a hefty bonus in the next paypacket for whoever does.
C'mon, man. One more sweep.
One more sweep... one more sweep. I'm getting tired of one more fuckin' sweep. We're been lookin' for this thing for three days now, and found zip.
Ah, quit griping. Keeps you in shape doesn't it?
Hey! I was in shape before we started doing this.
Listen to what?
That's what I mean. This is the quietest I've ever heard it. It's unnatural.
De Vries?
Yeah?
Next time you have a thought like that? Keep it to yourself.
Something spooking the rhinos?
I dunno.
Hey, Guttierez?
What?
Take a look at this.
One of 'em must have escaped.
That's impossible, man. This fence is hightensile. The breaking tolerance'd stand up to the strain of a rhino, easy. I know, I put it up.
There's no way a rhino'd survive that drop.
Goldsmith's gonna be plenty pissed at losing one of her babies.
That's a fact.
Whoa, wait a minute...
What?
Just got a reading...
What? Are you nuts? Just the two of us?
I've seen this mother, De Vries. We can bag it, no problem.
Forget it, man.
C'mon De Vries. Think of the bonus.
Fuck the bonus. I hate heights. You wouldn't get me up there even if it wasn't night.
What the hell are you doing?
Hey, fair enough. If you won't come, I'll handle it myself.
Alright, okay. Look...
What?
I'll come with you.
But I'm going first...
Anything you say, Mammacitta.
Careful of that edging there...
Yeah, I got it.
Still got him?
It's moving slow. About... eleven metres. On the left.
Hold it, hold it...
What's wrong?
I'm picking up another signal.
What? Where?
Just behind us, over to the right.
Can't see a thing. Are you sure?
Yeah, I...
Wait. Lost it.
How?
I dunno. Might be a glitch.
Oh, man. That's no glitch!
It's alright, it's cool...
Is it still moving?
No, he's stopped; he's totally still. Just take it nice and easy, babe. Nice and easy...
Move it baby, or they're gonna be chewin' on my cojones!
Couple more seconds!
Curious thing is, the mass detector says they're too small to carry a deepspace drive.
Sounds like a couple of escape shuttles.
Where're they headed?
We ran a trajectory simulation. If they carry on along that path, it's possible they'll make intraorbital insertion.
When?
Seven minutes ago, the third course change in an hour. Those incomings are going to skim past the communications platform just a little too close for comfort.
Can we move it to a different orbit in time?
Picking up velocity.
Match it!
What's going on?
The door's sealed from inside. Doc Revna's in there, and it sounds like Ackland's going nuts.
Force the door.
It's too late!
Nooooo!
Unconfirmed reports of eighteen or so far, but the numbers are all over the place.
What's our weapons situation?
Autoshop's sealed, but those boys are cutoff.
Has anybody talked to them?
Not yet.
Do it.
Oh, man...
Alright, let's keep calm. We've got to have an option of some sort... there's got to be a way out of this.
How much airtime have I got?
About thirty minutes. Those are slimmeddown tanks, so no stopping to admire the scenery.
Deal.
We've dumped the whole database from one of the cleaning remotes into the helmet. It'll project the route through the sewer system onto the inside of the glass as you go.
If I can get to the chopper, I'll meet you at the rendezvous. Don't wait for me.
But...
MarsCo went bellyup on the Dow Jones.
Shit. When?
Yesterday. We got the Network feed from Gateway; it was the top story on 'Sixty Seconds'. Biggest market crash since twentyfour.
Fucking great. I invested some money in them.
You win some, you loose some.
I lose 'em all, that's why I'm still out here on this rock. Anything else you wanna ruin my day with?
No, but I got something that might interest you.
That's the second time I ran it, and it still reads the same.
Better tell the boss.
A pair of incomings. They poppedup on the mediumrange about thirteen twentyfour local time.
We figured on it being a magnetic anomaly, but we ran a backtrace just to make sure.
Yeah. Turns out they dropped straight out of hyperspace.
Can you patch me a temporary loop on DCMGS?
Okay, give me the numbers.
What do you need?
A threesecond burn to port, on my mark.
It's on the board.
Seal everything now!
What's happening?
Cassie, thank Christ! We're under attack.
We're what!?
How many of them are there?
Too many.
Give or take.
We're not gonna make it, are we?
Are you alright?
What? What's wrong? What is it?
Where is she?
Comin' up the Central Reservoir.
Quick! Run a trace on the culvert leading off the autoshop maintenance pit.
I found it...
And?
Drains right into the Central Reservoir.
Get her online. Now!
I can't reach her. Too much signal breakup.
Keep trying!
Nice howitzer you've got there.
Thanks.
Good argument for guncontrol. What are you going after, rhino?
Nah. I just wanna squeeze off a few rounds. 'Sides, they tagged the rhinos for the migration project, so they're protected. They'll dock you a month's pay for just mentioning it.
We've got no option. We're gonna have to get it off.
Oh man...
Minh...
Yep...
Me either. I tell you, I used to be with a mining outfit on Callisto, and when something like that hits... believe me, you know about it.
Do you wanna head back and call it in?
Nada. No radiation... no movement... nothing.
Well, just keep looking. It's gotta be... whoa, Jesus!
It's a rhino.
Is it dead?
No, it's still breathing. Kinda clammy though. Are you sure your stick's not broken.
Yeah, it's fine.
God, I hope that thing didn't bring down a virus.
I told you we... what's that?
Looks like a spore. Fungus of some kind, maybe?
Bloody big if it is. Top's open.
Let's get back and call this in.
Wait a minute.
Headache? Dehydration?
The head's okay, but I could sink a sixpack.
Forget that. I want you off alcohol for at least seventytwo hours. I've got some toxin buildup tests still to run.
Can I... um... have some water? Please?
Sure.
What is it?
It's nothing, Doc. Just a... touch of indigestion... something.
Do you want a tablet?
Better?
Yeah...
All right, tycoons, let's stop spending our credit and start worrying about the job at hand.
Right. Fire up all systems.
Where are we?
Sandy, contact traffic control.
This is Chaz speaking. Sorry, but we are not home. Our present location seems to be only halfway to Irth. Remain at your posts and stand by. That is all.
Chaz, I've got something here on my security alert. A high priority from the computer...
Let's hear it.
Computer, you have signalled a priority three message. What is the message?
Oh my God.
Well, it's finally happened.
It's out of focus.
No  that's atmosphere. Cloud layer.
Atmospheric turbulence. Dust storm.
Turn on navigation lights.
What the hell happened?
Engine room, what happened?
Yeah, okay.
Sandy... how far are we from the source of the transmission?
10% argon, 85% nitrogen, 5% neon... and some trace elements.
Nontoxic... but unbreathable. Pressure?
Ten to the fourth dynes per square centimeter.
Good! Moisture content?
Zero. Dry as a bone.
Any microorganisms?
Not a one. It's dead.
Anything else?
Yeah, rock particles. Dust.
Well, we won't need pressure suits, but breathing masks are called for. Sandy  can you rig up some kind of portable unit that we can use to follow that transmission to its source?
Okay, Chaz, I hear you. I've got you on my board.
Good. I'm getting you clear too. Let's just keep the line open.
Martin, uh, we've found it.
Found what?
It appears to be some sort of spacecraft. We're going to approach it.
Martin?
I agree. This is the single most important discovery in history.
But?
What killed it?
Find anything we missed?
I don't even know what I'm looking for.
Still worried?
Oh well... you know me.
I've always respected your opinion, Martin. If something worries you, it worries me.
What would you say that was supposed to mean?
Well... it's obviously intentional... some kind of attempt at communication... maybe it's a symbol that means something to them...
But why draw it on the wall?
This ship is full of cat hair.
Tell you what, Martin. As soon as the engine's fixed 
Hey, can you guys hear me?
Yeah, we hear you! We're coming back!
Thank Christ! We lost you! Listen, there's been a new development 
Can't talk now; Broussard's injured. We'll need some help getting him into the ship.
Here, Chaz.
We're coming up now, open the outer lock door.
Chaz  what happened to Broussard?
It's some kind of organism, it's attached itself to him. Let us in.
You hear me, Martin? Open the outer door.
Chaz, if it's an organism, and we let it in, the ship will be infected.
We can't leave him out here, open the door.
Chaz, listen to me  we've broken every rule of quarantine. If we bring an organism on board, we won't have a single layer of defense left.
Martin, this is an order! Open the door!
I understand why you did that.
Good.
Would somebody fill me in?
He went into the pyramid alone. We lost radio contact with him. When we pulled him out, it was on his face. It won't come off, not without injuring him.
What film?
Broussard had film in his datastick, didn't he? We can see what happened to him.
Look at these suckers  no wonder we couldn't get it off him.
Is that its mouth?
I'm sorry to say it looks like you were right in the first place, Martin. We never should have landed here.
Look, I'm not trying to rub anybody's nose in anything. The important thing is just to get away from here as fast as possible.
I can't lean on Faust any harder  he's been working nonstop on the engines.
If we knew exactly what happened to the beings on the other ship 
Where did the parasites come from?
They seem native to the planet. It's got an atmosphere and a dense gravity. It's dead now, but once it must have been fertile.
Take us up.
Up one kilometer, Jay.
Engaged.
Let's take her into an escape orbit.
We made it! Damn, we made it!
You bet we made it. Martin, set course for Irth and accelerate us into stardrive.
With great pleasure.
That's the part that always makes me feel like I'm gonna puke  when we accelerate into light speed.
Quit complaining; we're in space.
I think the best thing to do with Broussard is to just freeze him as he is. It'll arrest the progress of his disease, and he can get complete medical attention when we get back to the Colonies.
We'll have to go into quarantine, maybe for quite a while.
That's okay, he can remain in hypersleep until they're ready to treat him.
We won't need it then.
All right, so that's what we've got. A week. It's plenty of time.
But if we <u>haven't</u> caught it in a week, then we have to go into the freezers anyway.
These will be very useful. At least we won't have to go digging around in closets with our bare hands. All right, here's the battle plan: we're going to break into two teams and start systematically covering the ship. Whoever finds it first, catches it in the net and ejects it from the nearest airlock. Clear?
Even simple.
Yes!
We've got it up here! It's trapped! Get up here fast!
Where are you?
Foodstorage room!
We're coming!
What's it doing, having a seizure?
It started crashing around right after we locked it in.
Now what?
I guess we open the door and net it.
Hey, wait a minute! That's all our food supplies in there! We can't pump poison gas all over them!
Once we kill the thing we won't need the food any more  we can go straight into hypersleep. Also, it sounds like that thing is already doing a pretty good job on our supplies; it may be fouling them all.
You win.
This stuff's deadly  I hope we know what we're doing.
Go ahead, Jay.
Now what?
What do you think? Now we go in.
Are you <u>crazy</u>?
The man would need protection, obviously  as well as some way to drive the thing before him.
So the only question left is: who gets to crawl down the airshaft?
Let's be democratic.
That's a flipflop gate to channel the air, but we can use it to trap the thing.
Right now let's keep it closed.
How did it get so <u>big</u>?
By eating our food supplies.
Two down, four to go.
What's that supposed to mean?
Nothing.
Can you make out any pattern in all that?
Well... yes... there's a pattern... but it's meaningless to me.
I know it looks like a senseless jumble, but if you look closely, there are recognizable forms.
That next thing there  six legs, tentacles  that's the thing we saw in the food locker.
So the next step should be 
This is all the same creature. We're seeing the different stages in its lifecycle.
Then that tomb... must have been some kind of fertility temple... where they stored their eggs, and maybe held mating rituals...
Which presumably means...
... More spores coming.
I saw it. Faust got himself jammed in the air lock door. His body held it open.
Can we get to him?
No, I had to seal off a whole section. We'd lose too much of our remaining air if we opened the connecting door.
Poor kitty; puss puss puss.
At least we're rid of the damn monster. It must have been the first thing sucked out of the ship.
No such luck. I saw it running down one of the corridors.
It was time for that a couple days ago.
That kind of remark is pointless. Now come on  I want to hear every suggestion you can come up with, no matter how wild.
Let's hear it.
Okay. First we shut down all the cooling systems on the stardrive engines.
That'll blow the ship up.
Right... but it'll take a few minutes for the engines to overheat and melt down the core. In the meantime, we get in the lifeboat and leave the ship.
But the lifeboat can't accelerate to light speed.
Doesn't matter  we're already at light speed. And when we get back to the Colonies, they'll pick us up in the network.
No, it won't work and I just realized why. There's only one hypersleep freezer on the lifeboat. Only one of us could survive.
Yeah... I forgot.
But the idea's good, if we could just turn it around somehow.
You know, it's funny  this stuff we went to so much trouble to dig up  this treasure, the paydirt  it'll make it back to Irth just fine  even if we're not with it.
Here, carry these.
<u>Hey watch it</u>!
It's stable; it doesn't hurt to drop it.
So what do we do? Do we ignore it and finish loading the explosives into the boat  or do we flush it out now?
Now. If we can get it into the boat, we won't have to blow it up  we can just eject it into space.
Yes, and maybe launch the boat and blow it too... if the others are injured.
Who gets the privilege?
All right, Martin, we'll be in touch with you on the communicator.
And you'll let me know when you've got it coming this way...
And you stand aside while we drive it in, then shut the hatch, launch the boat, and 
Kablooey.
Kill me...
What did it do to you?
Look...
That was Melkonis... it ate Hunter...
I'll get you out of there.
No... don't...
But I can save you  get you to the Autodoc!
No good... it's eaten too much of me...
What can I do?
Kill me...
Men have waited centuries to contact another form of intelligent life in the universe. This is an opportunity which may never come again.
Look 
My God, it's stormy for a piece of rock that size!
Just a second. Those aren't water vapor clouds; they have no moisture content.
Source of transmission is to the northeast... about 300 meters.
Close...
It appears to be a heavy fluid of some sort... it blocks the Xrays...
That tube must be depositing it in him.
Could be some kind of venom, or poison...
These day and night cycles are totally disorienting. I feel like we've been here for days, but it's only been how long?
About four hours.
We do know that.
Yeah?
They never made it off the planet. The parasites won.
No. It's just too small to support fauna as big as the parasites. If there were a native ecology, it would have to be microscopic.
Couldn't the pyramid have been built here by space travellers?
First thing I'm going to do when we get back is eat some biological food.
What's the matter, you don't like this stuff?
Tastes like something you'd feed a chicken to make it lay more eggs.
Sandy, you want to give us some vision?
Feast your eyes.
First contact...
Sandy, can you home in on that beam?
What's the frequency?
Computer, what's the frequency of the transmission?
I've got it. It's coming from ascension 6 minutes 32 seconds, declination 39 degrees 2 seconds.
Dell  show me that on a screen.
Well, we can't go anywhere in this darkness. How long till dawn?
Well... this rock rotates every two hours. The sun should be coming up in about 20 minutes.
Just settle down. Sandy, you get any response yet?
Sorry. Nothing but that same damn transmission, every 32 seconds. I've tried every frequency on the spectrum.
Receiving.
All right. Now just remember: keep away from those weapons unless I say otherwise. Martin, do you read me?
That way.
You lead.
What's wrong?
My signal's fading.
It's close, real close.
How far?
We should be almost on top of it. I just can't quite...
Air lock?
Who knows?
Doesn't seem much doubt about it, does there?
That creature sure must have considered it important... using his last strength to draw it...
This looks ancient.
Can't tell  these weather conditions could erode anything, fast.
What'd he say?
I couldn't make it out  too much interference.
If we don't hear from him soon, I think we better go in after him.
Sun will be down in a minute.
Here's his line. We can haul him out of there if we have to.
It'll yank him right off his feet if he's not expecting it. The line could get tangled in something.
But what can we do? He's out of radio contact.
Maybe we should just wait a few more minutes.
There, it caught!
Is it still coming up, or is it hooked on something?
No, it's coming.
Can you see anything?
<u>What is it</u>?
<u>Don't touch him, watch it</u>!
Oh God, oh God no.
Help me  I'm going to try to get it off.
It won't come  it's stuck.
What is it?
How the hell should I know? Come on, give me a hand, let's get him out of there!
It's not coming off  not without his whole face coming off too.
Let's let the machine work on him.
It's stopped?
Yes, thank heaven.
We're just plain lucky. That could have gone right through the hull  taken <u>weeks</u> to patch it.
Reminded me of when I was a kid and the roof leaked  everybody running for the pots and pans.
No, thank God... just missed him.
Is it still dripping?
It appears to have healed itself.
That sounds a little fanciful...
Primitive pictorial languages are based on common objects in the environment, and this can be used as a starting point for translation...
Too primitive. It's a pre technological construction. That slab was engineered by an IronAge culture at best.
They're from a dead civilization; they're spores from a tomb. God knows how long they've been here.
We're going home. We're in hyperspace.
We're going into the freezers now.
I'm going to write a book about this expedition. I'm going to call it "The Snark Log."
The commander normally has first publication rights.
Maybe we could write it together.
We'll have to catch it and eject it from the ship.
Well, I kind of hate to point it out, but all our supplies are based on us spending a strictly limited amount of time out of suspended animation... and as you know, we used up most of that time in harvesting.
We've got about a week left, right?
How?
Room by room, corridor by corridor.
And what do we do when we find it?
We'll have to trap it somehow. If we had a really strong piece of net, we could bag it.
I thought I'd find you here.
I was thinking of a line from an old poem: "Water, water everywhere, but not a drop to drink." All that space out there, and we're trapped in this ship.
That's the one about the albatross, right?
We can't even radio for help; the carrier wave wouldn't reach its destination till long after we'd died and turned to dust. We are utterly, absolutely alone. Can anybody really visualize such a scale of distances? Halfway across Creation...
We came out there, we'll go back. A long time by the clock, but a short time to us.
Time and space have no meaning out here. We're living in Einsteinian equation.
I can see you're putting your spare time to good use. Let me tell you something: you keep staring at hyperspace for long enough, they'll be peeling you off a wall. I've seen it happen.
We're the new pioneers, Chaz. We even have our own special diseases.
Come on  let's go above and see how they're coming with the gear.
I've got Hunter... and something else as well, in front of him.
Are they close?
They're on the next level up.
Let's get moving with this net.
They're getting pretty close now.
All right, then  when it gets to the other side of the door, you sing out, then drop the door. Okay?
Okay.
And you and I will bag it, and then we'll take it to the ventral air lock, got it?
Now what's wrong?
I've completely lost their signal.
Can you get them back?
I'm trying.
What? What was that?
The computer just translated the goddamn message. It's not an S.O.S. It was a warning.
I'm getting nowhere. The whole area around the pyramid is dead to transmission. I think we should go after them.
No.
What do you mean, no?
We're not going anywhere.
But they don't know about the translation! They could be in danger right now.
We can't spare the personnel. We've got minimum takeoff capability right now. That's why Chaz left us on board.
Why, you chickenshit bastard 
Just can that crap! I'm in command here till Chaz returns! And nobody's leaving this ship!
I've got 'em! They're back on my screens!
How many?
Three blips! They're coming this way!
Oh no.
Jay, this is Cleave! Meet me at the main air lock!
I keep my mouth pretty much shut, but I don't like hitting.
I guess I had it coming. Let's call it settled.
Look at that.
What is it  I can't tell anything 
It's some kind of organ  it's inserted some kind of tube or something down his throat.
Oh... God...
I think that's how it's getting oxygen to him.
It doesn't make any sense. It paralyzes him... puts him into a coma... then keeps him alive.
What's happening up here?
I think it's fizzled out.
This is horrible.
Hey! what about the film?
That must have been when he got it.
The same thing must've happened to the creatures on the other ship... except they took one of those jars on board, and opened it there.
What common objects?
Listen, hadn't somebody better check on Broussard?
You mean his body was still kicking when it ran off with him?
It was horrible  horrible. Like a chicken.
Don't count on it.
We sure need this flamethrower.
Recognizable! In that?
In symbolic form... very stylized... but if you stare at it, you can see some of the different creatures we've been dealing with.
Well... I suppose that starshaped thing could be the parasite that got on Broussard. Is that what you mean?
And right next to it, that oval design with the markings  it's a dead ringer for the spore casings.
... And Broussard got caught in their reproductive cycle.
You will notice, though, that there are no more phases. Only four forms are shown. After that the pattern repeats.
We can't kill it on board. It's huge now and must have tremendous amounts of that acid in its body.
I've got an idea, but you're not going to like it.
Blow the ship up?
And the creature with it. We can make it back to Irth in the lifeboat.
What about all the minerals and elements in the cargo hold? That's the only reason we came out here. We'd have to abandon them all. We'd be broke.
Our lives are more important. Anyway, we can take a small amount of the most valuable stuff with us on the lifeboat.
I think it's going to be almost impossible to drive it up into the lifeboat.
We can use the flamethrower.
It's not going to work.
This should do it.
I should hope so! And we'd better make sure it's pretty far from the ship when we blow it.
Isn't "bait" the word you used?
Hey look, somebody has to have his hands free to lock the creature in the lifeboat!
Just keep your finger off the button till she's way away from the ship, that's all.
Is it armed?
If you press the button right now, it will blow the whole nose of the ship off.
Thanks for the thought.
It's over, Hunter.
Boy, that's terrific.
Well, how does it feel to be rich men?
That thing, God almighty, didn't you try to get it off him?
It wouldn't come.
Hey now, what is this?
Ask him.
There. Should be coming through about there.
Careful, don't get under it!
I'll do it. The rest of you continue.
I'll come with you.
You know, it's fantastic  the human race has gone this long without ever encountering another advanced life form, and now we run into a veritable zoo.
What do you mean?
Well, those things out there aren't the same, you know  the spaceship and the pyramid. They're from different cultures and different races. That ship just landed here  crashed like we did. The pyramid and the thing from it are indigenous.
How could anything be indigenous to this asteroid? It's dead.
Maybe it wasn't always dead.
Now we're in for it.
The door was closed. It must still be in here.
No, don't open the door. We don't want it escaping.
Well, what the hell good can we do in here? We can't grab it  it might jump on us 
Maybe we can catch it.
Yes?
How's Broussard?
He's running a fever.
Still unconscious?
Yes.
Can you do anything for him?
The machine will bring his temperature down. His vital functions are strong.
Good.
I think I could cobble something together. A long metal rod with a battery in it. Give it a hell of a shock.
Good. Get on it. But first, I'm issuing a standing order: from this moment forth, every one of us will wear protective garments, including helmets. Let's get down to the locker and change.
Don't worry, it won't damage it, it'll just give it a little incentive.
How do we locate the creature?
Maybe we don't have to. It's trapped in there. We could just leave it in there all the way back to Irth.
Don't be an idiot.
We can't pump poison gas down into the cooling unit! It'll flood the whole ship!
The only other thing I can think of is for somebody to crawl in there and flush it out.
While the rest of us wait down in the cooling unit with the net.
Sounds like a rough one.
Got a better idea?
We'd better seal off the lower maintenance level; at least trap it there.
At least it can't get up here now.
Listen, it sure didn't like this flamethrower.
That's right  we can't kill it on the ship, but we can at least keep it at bay  and maybe drive it into the air lock.
Thing is, I'm about out of fuel.
We've got six hours left.
Oh my God.
Does anybody know what happened?
Oh no! We can't fight this thing! There's only six hours of air left  we're dead men!
I don't buy that. There's still time to destroy it and get ourselves in the freezers.
<u>How</u>?
It's time for drastic remedies.
If we could just get the <u>creature</u> into the lifeboat, we could launch it into space and blow it up.
Good! That's good!
We can load the lifeboat up with explosives and trigger them remotely, once the lifeboat is in space.
You can't say that; I think it's a good plan.
The flamethrower needs more fuel.
Right. We've got a lot to accomplish. Let's get moving.
The ship's gravitational attraction must have drawn him back.
Should we go outside and bring him in?
No... the risk is too great. Perhaps after we've destroyed the thing.
It will be.
What we really need is some red meat in here for bait.
Well... now we have to herd that thing up here.
Whoever's doing the herding is gonna have their hands pretty full. I think somebody should stay by the lifeboat to slam the door on the thing once it's inside, and to serve as... as...
It must have stopped moving. I'm not getting anything.
Let me go first; you stay behind me.
The flamethrower!
I can't, the acid will pour out!
He wouldn't open the lock; he was going to leave us out there.
Yeah... well, maybe he should have. I mean, you brought the goddamn thing in here. Maybe <u>you</u> deserve to get slapped.
Where did it come from?
<u>He's</u> the only one that knows that.
How does he breathe?
Blood's thoroughly oxygenated.
Yeah, but how? His nose and mouth are blocked.
We can't expect to understand a life form like this. We're out of our back yard. Things are different here.
Well, can't we kill it? I mean, we can't leave the damn thing on him.
We don't know what might happen if we tried to kill it. At least right now it's keeping him alive.
How about cutting it off? We can't pull it loose, but we can cut off everything but the bottom layer, where it's stuck to his face.
God, that smoke's poisonous!
It's eating a hole in the floor!
I never saw anything like that in my life... except molecular acid.
But this thing uses it for <u>blood</u>.
Hell of a defense mechanism. You don't dare kill it.
It makes me sick to see him like that.
Isn't there some way we can get it off him?
It's a crude symbolic language  looks primitive.
You can't tell  that kind of stuff could represent printed circuits...
We can't go into hypersleep with that thing running around loose.
We'd be sitting ducks in the freezers.
Martin, this is Jay. The intakes are clogged with dust. We overheated and burned out a whole cell.
Damn it! How long to fix?
Jay... how's it coming on the repairs?
Well... I'm going to have to blow the engines out...
And when will you be ready to do that?
Oh  I'm not near ready yet.
Then why the hell are you sitting around here?
Right.
It's really on there tight.
Here, let me try.
Hey, guess what?
What?
The engines are fixed.
This dust is getting clogged in the intakes again!
Just hold us together till we're in space, that's all!
Oh it's okay. I've had better cag than this, but I've had worse too, if you know what I mean.
I kind of like it.
So does anybody have any suggestions?
We could put on our pressure suits and blow all the air out of the ship. That would kill it.
No, we can't afford to lose that much oxygen. We're going to have to flush it out.
Might even incinerate the damn thing.
I hope not.
It's clear.
All right  Roby and Melkonis will go with Faust. Hunter and I will make up the second team.
It looks completely different from the first one  it's more like a worm with legs... and tentacles.
Well we better do something.
So it's trapped in between  now we have to drive it out.
Poison gas...
Hey, are you guys still there? What's going on?
Meet us on the bridge. Be careful  it's <u>huge</u> now.
Right.
There's some more combustible fuel down in the storage lockers next to the lounge. I'll go get it.
No, I don't want us separated.
You just sealed it off; it can't get to that section.
All right... but do <u>not</u> go below decks.
Right.
And be right back.
What the hell's going on?
Don't know  Broussard got hurt somehow.
Hurt! How?
Don't know  maybe we'll be real lucky and he just broke his neck. I knew we shouldn't of come down here.
Oh  God  oh 
Is it alive?
Boy do I feel a lot better. It's a straight shot back to the Colonies, and then we can start taking bids on the paydirt. Any bets on the top bid?
Well, we should at least be able to each buy our own planet.
Oh, no. Oh, no.
What was that? What the Christ was that?
And then we run out of food and oxygen.
The water will still recycle.
That one section of the ventilator shaft has only two outlets  you notice? The food storage room on one end 
 And the cooling unit on the other.
Well, uh... good luck. I hope you won't need me, but if you do, I'm here.
Right.
Just a minute, hold it, I'm checking.
Has the hull been breached?
How long to fix?
Hard to say.
Well, get started.
Right. Talk to you.
Hello, Faust!
Yeah!
How's it coming on the engines?
<u>He</u> died.
What?
Not <u>they</u>... <u>he</u>...
Sorry to interrupt, but I'm gonna charge up the engines for a minute, okay?
Yeah, okay. Go ahead.
Yes? What is it?
Jay, we've got a problem. I was wondering if there was any way you could shortcut the repairs and give us immediate takeoff capability.
Why, what's wrong?
The computer's translated the alien signal, and it's kind of alarming.
What do you mean?
It couldn't translate the whole thing, only three phrases. I'll just read it to you the way I got it: "... HOSTILE... SURVIVAL... ADVISE DO NOT LAND... " And that's all it could translate.
You like this shit?
It grows on you.
You know what they make this stuff out of?
Yes, I know what they make it out of, so what? It's food now. <u>You're</u> eating it.
I didn't say it was bad for you, it's just kind of sickening, that's all.
But we can't kill it. If we kill it, it will spill all its body acids right through our hull and out into space.
Shit...
We could cut a section out of that metallite netting. It won't hold up to that acid, but aside from that it's pretty strong.
We have to avoid injuring it. What we really need is some electric animal prods.
Where's it coming from?
Machine's screwed up, I can't tell. Needle's spinning all over the dial.
Okay.
That way.
What happened to the lights?
Bulbs burned out, nobody bothered to replace 'em.
Where does that go?
All over the ship; we'll have to check the charts to know for sure.
What happened? Where's Sandy?
Dead.
Dead!
It's monstrous  it grew, like some horrible tapeworm. We were completely unprepared.
It's still in the ship?
I have interrupted the course of the voyage.
What? <u>Why</u>?
I am programmed to do so if certain conditions arise.
Unknown! What do you mean?
It is none of the 678 dialects spoken by technological man.
Yes!
I have a temporary sequence on the monitor 
Hold it, I can't hear a damn thing!
Computer! I've turned all the cooling units back on! What's wrong?
The reaction has proceeded too far. The core has begun to melt. Engines will overload in 2 minutes, 35 seconds.
Computer, this is Captain Standard. What conditions are you talking about?
I have intercepted a transmission of unknown origin.
A transmission?
A voice transmission.
I have recorded the transmission.
Play it for us, please.
Computer, what language was that?
Unknown.
Just <u>hold it</u>, <u>hold it</u>! Computer: have you attempted to analyze the transmission?
Yes. There are two points of salient interest. Number one: it is highly systematized, indicating intelligent origin. Number two: certain sounds are inconsistent with the human palate.
Where's Irth?
Sandy, scan the whole sky.
I don't recognize that constellation.
Dell, plot our location.
I got it. Oh boy.
Where the hell are we?
Just short of Zeta II Reticuli. We haven't even reached the outer rim yet.
Can you get it a little closer?
That's what I'm going to do.
Any rotation?
Yeah. Two hours.
Gravity?
Point eight six. We can walk on it.
Except it will take 75 years to get a reply back. Don't forget how far we are from the Colonies, Martin.
There are no commercial lanes out here. Face it, we're out of range.
Dell, I want greater magnification. More surface detail. I want to see what this place looks like.
I'll see what I can do.
Activate lifter quads.
Activated. Vertical drop checked. Correcting course. On tangential course now, orbiting. Crossing the terminator. Entering night side.
Approaching point of origin. Closing at 20 kilometers, 15 and slowing. Ten. Five. Gentlemen, we are directly above the source of the transmission.
What's the terrain down there?
Well, line of sight is impossible due to dust. Radar gives me noise. Sonar gives me noise. Infrared  noise. Let's try ultraviolet. There. Flat. It's totally flat. A plain.
Is it solid?
It's... basalt. Rock.
Then take her down.
Drop begins... now! Fifteen kilometers and dropping... twelve... ten... eight and slowing. Five. Three. Two. One kilometer and slowing. Lock tractor beams.
Close enough to walk to!
Martin, would you run me an atmospheric?
I'm sending. Do you hear me?
Receiving.
Appears to be a door hanging open, the entrance is clogged with debris.
Looks like a derelict.
Martin, we're going in. I'm going to hold the conversation to a minimum from here on.
I'll go first.
No, you'll follow me.
Just machinery.
But functioning.
This is Chaz.
Chaz, this is Dell. Can you come topside for a minute?
What's up?
Well, the sun just came up again, and it seems the wind's died down. It's as clear as a bell outside. There's something I think you ought to see.
I'm on my way.
What is it?
Take a look.
I was scanning the horizon to see what I could pick up. Look there, on that screen.
What is it, I can't 
Maybe we can get in by the top.
You want to try?
Sure.
Can we come up?
No, it's too small, only room enough for one person.
Can you see anything in the hole?
Dell, you want to come down, we can figure out where to go from here.
No, I want to go in.
Okay, I'm in the mouth of the chimney now, and I'm starting down.
Take care.
Are you okay in there?
Yeah, I'm okay. Haven't hit bottom yet. Definitely a column of warm air rising; it keeps the shaft clear of dust.
What was that Dell, I lost you, do you read me?
Yeah, but this is hard work. Can't talk now.
How do you feel, Dell?
Wretched. What happened to me?
Don't you remember?
Don't remember nothing. Can't hardly remember my name.
Hell, you're in great shape, you've got your sense of humor back!
God I'm hungry.
I'm really starving; can we get some food before we go into the freezers?
I think that's a pretty reasonable request.
What's wrong?
I don't know... I'm getting these <u>CRAMPS</u>!
Breathe deeply.
<u>OH GOD IT HURTS SO BAD</u>!
Oh... God... am I cold...
Is that you, Roby?
I feel like shit...
Yeah, it's you all right.
I'm going to buy a cattle ranch.
Cattle ranch!
I'm not kidding. You can get one if you have the credit. Look just like real cows, too.
If there is some kind of alien intelligence down on that planetoid, it'd be a serious mistake for us to blunder in unequipped.
Hell, we're equipped 
Hell, no! We don't know what's down there on that piece of rock! It might be dangerous! What we should do is get on the radio to the exploration authorities... and let them deal with it.
Locked.
Kill drive engines.
Engines off.
Nine hundred meters and dropping. 800. 700. Hang on gentlemen.
Good! Maybe we'll be able to see something then.
Or something will be able to see us.
There could be a whole city out there and we'd never see it.
Not sitting on our butts in here, that's for sure.
Are you in pain?
Not exactly, just feel like somebody's been beating me with rubber hoses for about six years.
Dell, what's the last thing you can remember?
... I don't know...
Do you remember the pyramid?
No. Just some horrible dreams about smothering. Where are we?
What is he?
I've got a little list here. Wandering abroad. Malicious intent. Acting in a suspicious manner. Conduct liable to cause a breach of the peace. You name it, he's done it.
Oh, a little savage, is he?
A proper Aborigine.
So you just brought the old chap out of the crowd for his own good.
Yeah, but he insisted on us bringing him to the station.
Well, he can't stop here.
Put it this way, he's mislaid him.
You can't trust you with anything, Norm, if you've lost him, I'll cripple you.
He can't be far.
Eh, what's all this?
Oh, him... He's been lurking.
Shove the gentleman jockey in the makeup room or something and keep your eye on him, will you?
I'm an electrician, not a wet nurse, y'know.
I'll set John on you!
Oh, anything you say, Paul.
How's that?
Oh ... he's nursing a broken heart.
Course he can talk. He's a human being, like. Isn't he?
Well ... if he's your Grandfather, who knows?
"The Management of Boyd's takes pleasure in requesting the company of Mr. Richard Starkey, that's you, in their recently refinished gaming rooms. Chemin de Fer. Baccarat, Roulette, and Champagne Buffet." Blimey!
And they want me?
Oh, he's gone to my club, has he?
Yeah, It's all your fault, getting invites to gambling clubs. He's probably in the middle of an orgy by now.
What's the matter with you? You were bashing away like a madman.
You were twanging too loud.
Eh. I thought you were looking after the old man.
Get knotted!
Yeah, you want to watch it.
It's not my fault.
Well, you stick to that story, son.
I can't help it, I'm just taller than you.
I'm sorry Norm, but I can't help being taller than you.
Well, you don't have to rub me nose in it. I've a good mind to ...
He's been gone a long time.
Who?
Paul's grandfather.
Oh, I didn't notice, where'd he go?
Down the ... er ...
Oh, down the ... er ...?
Yeah, down the ... er ...
Well, give a couple of minutes ...
Oh they've probably gone to the canteen, cup of tea, like.
That's too easy for Lennon.
He's out there somewhere, causing trouble just to upset me.
You're imagining it. You're letting things prey on your mind.
Oh no... this is a battle of nerves between John and me.
But John hasn't got any.
What?
Nerves.
I know, that's the trouble.
I'm adjusting the decibels on the inbalance.
Clever. George.
... as they head up for the show. Oh yes, well I mean it'ud be a pity to miss the show, wouldn't it like.
Shurrup, cheerful.
He belongs to Paul.
Ah well, there you go. Look, I'm going down the diner for a cup of coffee, are you coming?
None for me, then?
Sorry.
That's mine.
Have done, and you lot get your pens out.
Well ...
When I tell you to stay put, stay put.
Oh dear, I feel like doing a bit of work.
Good lad, Ringo.
Stop picking on him.
I don't need you to defend me, y'know, Norm.
What do you think are you're up to?
Someone put it on me.
Look after him.
But...
Do I have to raise me voice?
Oh, all right. Come here, Grandad.
Well, look after him. I don't want to find you've lost him.
Don't be cheeky, I'll bind him to me with promises. Come on, Grandad.
And?
Your Grandfather pointed out Shake was always being taller than me just to spite me.
I knew it, <U>he</U> started it, I should have known.
Y'what?
You two have never had a quarrel in your life and in two minutes flat he's got you at it. He's a king mixer. Adam and Eve, meet the serpent. Anthony and Cleopatra, there's your asp. Divide and Conquer, that's this one's motto. He hates group unity so he gets everyone at it.
Have <U>you</U> lost him?
Don't exaggerate.
You've lost him.
Eh, where's my grandfather?
Don't worry about him. He can look after himself.
Aye, I suppose so.
I've got the stuff. Come here.
Aren't we ...
No, we're not!
Where's my grandfather?
Don't start. Look.
You're a window rattler, son.
Well, that's just your opinion. Do I snore, Paul?
It'll only get you into trouble.
Aah, shurrup, misery!
He's betrayed the class.
Oh, leave off!!!
Temper! Temper!
Well ...
That's right. It's always me, isn't it?
Since you ask, yes. Aah, come on, Ring, we love you.
Well!
He'll get over it.
Hello.
Hello.
Oh, wait a minute, don't tell me you're ...
No, not me.
Oh you are, I know you are.
No, I'm not.
You are.
I'm not, no.
Well, you look like him.
Oh do I? You're the first one who ever said that.
Oh you do, look.
My eyes are lighter.
Oh yes.
And my nose...
Well, yes your nose is. Very.
Is it?
I would have said so.
Aye, but you know him well.
No I don't, he's only a casual acquaintance.
That's what you tell me.
What have you heard?
It's all over the place, everyone knows.
Is it? Is it really?
Mind you, I stood up for you, I mean I wouldn't have it.
I knew I could rely on you.
Thanks.
Are you listening to me, Lennon?
You're a swine, isn't he George?
If you're going to have a barney I'll hold your coats.
He started it.
Eh, have you got Paul's grandfather?
Of course, he's concealed about me person.
No ... he's must have slipped off somewhere.
Don't move, any of you. They've gone potty out there. The whole place is surging with girls.
Please, can I have one to surge with?
No.
Ah, go on, you swine.
No, you can't. Look, as soon as I tell you, run through this door here and into the big car that's waiting.
Paul, John, George  get at it.
Hello the income tax have caught up with us at last.
Oh, it's got round that you're a heavy punter.
Well you're not going.
I'll brook no denial!
It's all right for you, you couldn't get a pen in your foot, you swine.
Come on, Shake, we'll leave 'em to their penmanship.
Now get on with it.
We were going to do it.
Aye, well, now!
Will you all stop it, you're like a gang of school kids. I knew this was going to happen one day.
Well, you shouldn't have had bacon for your breakfast, you cannibal.
Let's have you.
Come on speedy!
Don't cane me, sir, I was led astray.
Oh shurrup and come on John. They're waiting for you in the studio.
Leave him alone, he's got swine fever.
Sit down, the lot of you.
Leave him alone, Lennon, or I'll tell them all the truth about you.
You wouldn't!
I would though.
They're nearly ready for you. They're just finishing the band call.
Gear! Come on, girls, let's have a bit of a dance.
John, I'm talking to you. This final run through is <U>important</U>. Understand? Important.
Oink! Oink!
Hi Norm!
Hi, our lot!
Control yourself or you'll spurt. He's bound to be somewhere.
Aye, let's try the dressing room.
The office was on the phone, they think it'd be better if we pushed straight to Wolverhampton.
Tonight? We can't make it ...
You've got a midnight matinee.
Now, look here, Norm ...
No, you look here, John. I've only one thing to say to you.
What?
You're a swine. So hurry up ... we're travelling!
Eh ... pardon me for asking but who's that little old man?
What little old man?
That little old man.
Oh, that one. That's me Grandfather.
How d'you reckon that one out?
Well ... everyone's entitled to two, aren't they, and this is me other one.
Well we know that but what's he doing here?
Well, me mother thought the trip 'ud do him good.
Aye and fond of fresh meat and all.
No ... it was his sweetbreads. She was dead kinky for sweetbreads. Anyroad, me mother thought it'ud give him a change of scenery, like.
Oh, I see.
Eh, he's a nice old man, isn't he?
Oh yeah, he's very clean, y'know.
Aye, that's what I'm afraid of!
He's got you worried, then?
Him, he costs you a fortune in breach of promise cases. He's a villain and a right mixer as well.
Gie's a kiss!
Shurrup! Look, Mister, we've paid for our seats too, you know.
Give 'em a pull.
Shall I?
I hope he fell off.
Don't be callous.
We've broken out, oh, the blessed freedom of it all! Eh, have you got a nail file, these handcuffs are killing me. I was framed. I was innocent.
Will you stop it! Sorry to disturb you, miss...
Don't worry, son, we'll get you the best lawyer trading stamps can buy.
Oh, it's a laugh a line with Lennon. Anyroad up ... It's all your fault.
Gaw, it's depressing in here, isn't it? Funny... 'cos they usually reckon dogs more than people in England, don't they? You'd expect something a little more palatial. Come on. Let's have a little action. Let's do something, then.
Like what?
Well, I've got me gob stopper. Look, a genuine Stradivarius, hand tooled at Dagenham.
Let's go and muck in.
Aye, before anyone stops us.
You won't interfere with the basic rugged concept of my personality, will you, girl?
Eh, don't take out me lines.
Behave...
Foreign devil ...
What's he know?
Nothing, he's trying to brainwash me and give me personality doubts ... oh, he's a swine but a clever swine, mind.
She's going to show me her stamp collection.
So's mine.
We've got only half an hour till the final runthrough. He can't walk out on us.
Can't he? He's done it, son!
Well, I got a few things to say to you, twofaced John McCartney.
Aw, leave him alone Paul, he's back, isn't he? And it's not his fault he's old.
What's old got to do with it?
You needn't bother.
Y'what?
Practising to be thickheaded, you're there already.
Look he's a mixer and a trouble maker!
That's right, but he's only asking us to pay attention to him, aren't you?
No, that's his other one.
That's all right then.
Clean though, isn't he?
Oh yes, he's clean all right.
Is that yours?
For Ringo.
Aye, he looks a right lurker.
You're undressed. Where are your clothes?
Well, what are we waiting for?
Aye, come on, honest, that grandfather of yours is worse than any of you lot.
What are you doing there?
Hiding.
I think you're soft or something.
Oh no, you're not. You've gone too far this time ... and who's paying for all this?
It's all taken care of. It's down on our bill.
Oh, well that's all right. What?
And to think me own grandson would have let them put me behind bars!
Don't dramatise.
All right, how about Ringo? I mean ... he's very upset, you know ... and as far as your girlfriend, little Audrey's concerned, she's finished with men for the rest of her natural, and another thing ...
A harmless bit of fun, aah, none of you have any sense of humour left these days.
Oh, it's all right for you but those two girls were scared to death! Honest, Grandad, why? I mean, why do you do these things?
You're lefthanded, aren't you, Paul?
Yeah ... so what?
Why do you always use your left hand?
Well, don't be daft, I've got to.
And I take a lefthanded view of life, I've got to.
With a trombone hooter like yours it'd be unnatural if you didn't.
Don't mock the afflicted, Pauly.
Oh for Pete's sake, It's only a joke.
Well, it may be a joke, but it's his nose. He can't help having a horrible great nose, it's the only one he's got. And his poor little head's trembling under the weight of it.
Anything to spare?
We've just finished, Pauly. Hey George, write us your John Henry on this picture.
And another thing, where's that old mixer?
Here, Pauly.
Hello, Grandfather!
Hello.
He can talk then?
And we're looking after him, are we?
I'll look after meself.
Come on let's get this coffee.
Before you go, I think it's only fair to warn you about me Grandson ... don't let our Paul have his own way all the time, 'cos if you do he won't respect you!
That's right; convict without trial ... Habeas corpus.
Every morning.
That'll keep you busy.
It's your nose, y'see. Fans are funny that way. Take a dislike to things. They'll pick on a nose...
Stay where you are everybody this is a raid and we want him.
Who are these ruffians?... I've never seen them before in my life! ...
You see. You know your trouble  you should have gone West to America. You'd have wound up a Senior Citizen of Boston. As it is you took the wrong turning and what happened, you're a lonely old man from Liverpool.
But I'm clean.
Well, you got me here so do your worst but I'll take one of you with me. Oh, I know your game, get me in the tiled room and out come the rubber hoses but I'll defy you still.
Is there a fire, then?
You ugly, great brute you, you have sadism stamped all over your bloated British kisser.
Eh?
I'll go on a hunger strike. I know your caper. The kidney punch and the rabbitclout. The third degree and the size twelve boot ankletap.
What's he on about?
I'm soldier of the Republic, you'll need the mahogany truncheon for this boyo. A nation once again.
Get Lloyd George over there with that mechanic in the cloth cap while I sort this lot out.
Would you two like a cup of tea?
You see, sly villains.
Ah.
Quite right, invites to gambling dens full of easy money and fast women, chicken sandwiches and cornets of caviar, disgusting!
Will you ever look at him, sitting there wid his hooter scraping away at that book!
Well ... what's the matter with that?
Have you no natural resources of your own? Have they even robbed you of that?
You can learn from books.
Can you now? Aah ... sheeps' heads! You learn more by getting out there and living.
Out where?
Any old where ... but not our little Richard ... oh no! When you're not thumping them pagan skins, you're tormenting your eyes wid that rubbish!
Books are good!
Parading's better!
Parading?
That's it, parading the streets ... trailing your coat ... bowling along ... living!
Well, I <U>am</U> living, aren't I?
You're living, are you? When was the last time you gave a girl a pinkedged daisy? When did you last embarrass a sheila wid your cool appraising stare?
Eh ... you're a bit old for that sort of chat, aren't you?
At least I've a backlog of memories, but all you've got is that book!
Aaah ... stop picking on me... you're as bad as the rest of them.
So you <U>are</U> a man after all.
What's that mean?
Do you think I haven't noticed ... do you think I wasn't aware of the drift? Oh ... you poor unfortunate scuff, they've driven you into books by their cruel, unnatural treatment, exploiting your good nature.
Oh ... I dunno.
And that lot's never happier than when they're jeering at you ... and where would they be without the steady support of your drum beat, I'd like to know.
Yeah ... that's right.
And what's it all come to in the end?
Yeah ... what's in it for me?
A book!
Yeah ... a bloomin' book!
When you could be out there betraying a rich American widow or sipping palm wine in Tahiti before you're too old like me. A fine neat and trim lad the class of you should be helping himself to life's goodies before the sands run out. Being an old age pensioner's a terrible drag on a man and every second you waste is bringing you nearer the Friday queue at the Post Office.
Yeah ... funny really, 'cos I'd never thought of it but being middleaged and old takes up most of your time, doesn't it?
You're only right.
I'm not wrong.
Where are you off to?
I'm going parading before it's too late!
Ringo, me old scout, they grabbed yer leg for the iron too, did they?
Well I'm not exactly a voluntary patient.
Shush! Have they roughed you up yet?
What?
Keep your voice down, this lot'll paste you, just for the exercise. Oh they're a desperate crew of drippings and they've fists like matured hams for pounding defenceless lads like you.
Have they?
That sergeant's a bodyblow veteran if ever I measured one. One of us has got to escape. I'll get the boys. Hold on son, I'll be back for you.
Me!
And if they get you on the floor watch out for your brisket.
Oh, they seem all right to me.
That's what they want you to think. All coppers are villains.
What are you doing?
Lip reading.
What are they saying?
Nothing good.
Oh!
Well ... go 'head, do the next bit.
Go away! You've spoilt it.
Oh, sorry I spoke.
Are you supposed to be here?
I've got you worried, haven't I?
I'm warning you, they'll be back in a minute.
D'you know something, "They" don't worry me at all. Anyroad, I only fancy listening to you ... that's all but if it worries you ... well ...
You're from Liverpool, aren't you?
How'd you guess?
Oh, it's the way you talk.
Is it ... is it, really?
Are you pulling my leg?
Something like that.
I see. Do you like the play?
Yeah ... I mean, sure, well, I took it at school but I only ever heard boys and masters saying those lines, like, sounds different on a girl. Yeah, it's gear on a girl.
Gear?
Aye, the big hammer, smashing!
Thank you.
Don't mench ... well, why don't you give us a few more lines, like?
You don't half slam the door in people's faces, do you? I mean, what about when you're playing the part, like, hundreds of people'll see you and ...
I'm not ...
Oh, you're the understudy, sort of thing?
No. I'm a walkon in a fancy dress scene. I just felt like doing those lines.
Oh, I see. You are an actress though, aren't you?
Yes.
Aye, I knew you were.
What's that mean?
Well, the way you were spouting, like .... "I don't believe you, sir..." and all that. Yeah, it was gear.
The big hammer?
Oh aye, a sledge.
But the way you did it then sounded so phony.
No ... I wouldn't say that ... just like an actress ... you know.
But that's not like a real person at all.
Aye well, actresses aren't like real people, are they?
They ought to be.
Oh, I don't know, anyroad up, they never are, are they?
What are you?
I'm in a group ... well ... there are four of us, we play and sing.
I bet you don't sound like real people.
We do, you know. We sound like us having a ball. It's fab.
Is it really fab or are you just saying that to convince yourself?
What of? Look, I wouldn't do it unless I was. I'm dead lucky 'cos I get paid for doing something I love doing.
... all this and a jam butty too!!
I only enjoy acting for myself. I hate it when other people are let in.
Why? I mean, which are you, scared or selfish?
Why selfish?
Well, you've got to have people to taste your treacle toffee.
No, hang on, I've not gone daft. You see, when I was little me mother let me make some treacle toffee one time in our back scullery. When I'd done she said to me, "Go and give some to the other kids." So, I said I would but I thought to meself, "She must think I'm soft." Anyroad, I was eating away there but I wanted somebody else to know how good it was so in the end I wound up giving it all away ... but I didn't mind, mind, 'cos I'd made the stuff in the first place. Well ... that's why you need other people... an audience ... to taste your treacle toffee, like. Eh ... does that sound as thickheaded to you as it does to me?
Not really but I'm probably not a toffee maker. How would you do those lines of mine?
Well, look at it this way, I mean, when you come right down to it, that girl, she's a bit of a scrubber, isn't she?
Is she?
Of course ... Look, if she was a Liverpool scrubber ... Eh, fella, you want to try pulling the other one, it's got a full set of bells hanging off it ... Y'what? ... I know your sort, two cokes and a packet of cheese and onion crisps and suddenly it's love and we're stopping in an empty shop doorway. You're just after me body and y'can't have it ... so there!!
And you honestly think that's what she meant?
Oh, definitely, it sticks out a mile, she's trying to get him to marry her but he doesn't want ... well ... I don't reckon any fella's ever wanted to get married. But girls are like that, clever and cunning. You've got to laugh.
Well, it's nice to know you think we're clever.
And cunning.
And what do you do about it?
Me? Oh, I don't have the time, I'm always running about with the lads ... no, we don't have the time.
Pity.
Aye, it is but as long as you get by, it's all right, you know ... bash on, happy valley's when they let you stop. Anyroad, I'd better get back.
Yes.
See you.
Of course.
Morning! Who's that little old man?
It's Paul's grandfather.
Oh aye, but I thought ...
No, I didn't you did ...
Well, what happened?
The old fella wanted these pictures and Norm said he couldn't have 'em, all I said was 'aw go on, be big about it.'
Hello, he's not talking to me. He's having a sulk.
Well, it must be catching. He's given it to the champ here.
Sorry.
Eh, there's only three of them.
Oh, Paul, you can't have your own way!!!
If I let you have your own way, you little rascal, will you respect me?
Come on, Auntie, you're winning.
Get in there, Paul, she's weakening.
That must have cost you a fortune in stamps, Ringo.
He comes from a large family.
Should I say it?
Follow your impulse.
I don't think that bit's right.
What do you expect from an ad lib ... Raymond Chandler?
How'd you like a dirty great drum roll giving you a clout right in the middle of your solo?
You're getting out of hand. I don't know what's come over you today.
It's happened at last, we've become a limited company.
I'll look in here again.
What are we waiting for?
Come here.
Oh, there you are!
Oh, I'm sorry, I must have made a mistake.
You haven't, you're just late. Oh, yes, he's going to be very pleased with you.
Is he?
Yes, you're quite a feather in the cap. Hello, I've got one ... oh, I think so ... yes, he can talk ... Well ... I think you ought to see him. Of course, right away.
Well ... come on.
Sorry.
That's not your Grandfather.
It is, y'know.
But your Grandfather lives in your house. I've seen him.
Oh, that's me other Grandfather, but this one's me Grandfather and all.
You see, he was going to get married but she threw him over for a butcher.
A butcher?
Yeah, she was fickle.
Gerron.
No, straight up.
Aye and we'll have to watch it and all.
I suggest you just give him the photos and have done with it.
Aye, but don't rush. None of your five bar gate jumps and over sort of stuff.
Now what's that supposed to mean?
I don't really know, but it sounded distinguished, like, didn't it?
Did you look in here?
No. I mean, it's probably a honeymoon couple or a company director or something.
Well, let's broaden our outlook.
Sure. .
Ah well. Eh, look!
What's up?
He's sulking again.
Ringo!
Wake up!
Oh, listen to teacher's pet.
You crawler.
Eh, I don't know if you realise it, but ...
We do.
Yes. Your grandfather's stirred him up.
He hasn't.
Yes, he's filled his head with notions seemingly.
The old mixer, come on we'll have to put him right.
Look, I'm terribly sorry but I'm afraid there's been some sort of a misunderstanding.
Oh, you can come off it with us. You don't have to do the old adenoidal glottal stop and carry on for our benefit.
I'm afraid I don't understand.
Oh, my God, he's a natural.
We want you to give us your opinion on some clothes for teenagers.
Oh, by all means, I'd be quite prepared for that eventuality.
Well, not your real opinion, naturally. It'll be written out and you'll learn it. Can he read?
Of course I can.
I mean lines, ducky, can you handle lines?
I'll have a bash.
Good. Hart, get him whatever it is they drink, a cokearama?
Ta.
Well, at least he's polite. Tony Show him the shirts, Adrian.
Now, you'll like these. You really "dig" them. They're "fab" and all the other pimply hyperboles.
I wouldn't be seen dead in them. They're dead grotty.
Grotty?
Yeah, grotesque.
Make a note of that word and give it to Susan. I think it's rather touching really. Here's this kid trying to give me his utterly valueless opinion when I know for a fact within four weeks he'll be suffering from a violent inferiority complex and loss of status if he isn't wearing one of these nasty things. Of course they're grotty, you wretched nit, that's why they were designed, but that's what you'll want.
But I won't.
You can be replaced you know, chicky baby.
I don't care.
And that pose is out too, Sunny Jim. The new thing is to care passionately, and be right wing. Anyway, you won't meet Susan if you don't cooperate.
And who's this Susan when she's at home?
Only Susan Campey, our resident teenager. You'll have to love her. She's your symbol.
Oh, you mean that posh bird who gets everything wrong?
I beg your pardon?
Oh, yes, the lads frequently gather round the T.V. set to watch her for a giggle. Once we even all sat down and wrote these letters saying how gear she was and all that rubbish.
She's a trend setter. It's her profession!
She's a drag. A wellknown drag. We turn the sound down on her and say rude things.
Get him out of here!!
Have I said something amiss?
Get him out of here. He's knocking the programme's image!!
He doesn't like me, honest, I can tell ... It's 'cos I'm little.
You've got an inferiority complex, you have.
Yeah, I know, that's why I took up the drums. It's me active compensatory factor.
Are you going in?
No, she'll only reject me in the end and I'll be frustrated.
You never know, you might be lucky this time.
No, I know the psychological pattern and it plays hell with me drum skins.
Me? Why?
Bagsnatcher.
I don't snore.
You do  repeatedly.
Do I snore?
Eh, Ringo, do you know what happened to me?
No. I don't.
Would you like to be a little more precise, sir?
Well, that's the wrong line for a start.
Sorry?
Yeah, you know, "O.K. Buster, follow that car, there's a sawbuck in it for you if you get real close!"
Oh, yes, now I'm with you. [he changes his accent] But, gee, Mister, I've got my license to think of ... we're doing a hundred now ...
Ever seen one of these before?
Ah ... a shamus, eh?
I see you go to the night court.
I've made the scene.
Well, remember, its Leathery Magee up ahead in that convertible, so cover me in the stakeout.
We're nearly there, sir.
Eh ... don't call him sir, he's got enough delusions of power as it is.
Leave them drums alone.
Oh, surely one can have a tiny touch.
If you so much as breathe heavy on them, I'm out on strike.
Aren't you being rather arbitrary?
That's right retreat behind a smoke screen of bourgeois cliches. I don't go round messing about with your earphones, do I?
Spoil sport!
Well!
All right, all right. If you don't need this lot, I'll lock 'em up in the dressing room till you do.
Please do, I'll not need them for fifteen minutes. Thank you.
Sure.
And hurry, they're not looking too happy.
Well, that's it, two minutes to the final runthrough... they're bound to miss it...
I'll murder that Lennon.
But I suppose we can survive a missed runthrough as long...
You don't think...
They'll be here.
Oh now, they can't do that to me. It's all your fault. Oh yes it is and if they don't turn up I wouldn't be in your shoes for all the...
Boys, you don't know what this means to me. If you hadn't come back it would have been the epilogue or the news in Welsh for life.
Aren't you supposed to be in that box?
What about all these letters?
Read 'em!
Shurrup!
Isn't it always the way? Picking on us little fellas.
Can you fix him for me?
Yeah.
Sixpence.
The police have the poor unfortunate lad in the Bridewell.
The police station.
He'll be pulp by now.
Here, mate, that's my hoop, stop playing with it.
Hoop, this isn't a hoop, it's a lethal weapon. Have you got a licence for it?
Oh don't be so stroppy!
Well! A boy of your age bowling <U>"hoop"</U> at people. How old are you anyway?
Nine.
Bet you're only eight and a half.
Eight and two thirds.
Well, there you are and watch it with that hoop.
Gerron out of it, you're only jealous 'cause you're old.
Shurrup!
I bet you're  sixteen!
Fifteen and two thirds, actually.
Well 
All right, take your hoop and bowl.
Oh you can have it, I'm packing it in  it depresses me.
Y'what?
You heard, it gets on my wick.
Well that's lovely talk, that is. And another thing, why aren't you at school?
I'm a deserter.
Are you now?
Yeah, I've blown school out.
Just you?
No, Ginger, Eddy Fallon and Ding Dong.
Ding Dong? Oh Ding Dong Bell, eh?
Yeah, that's right, they was supposed to come with us but they chickened.
Yeah? And they're your mates are they?
Yeah.
Not much cop without 'em, is it?
Oh, it's all right.
Yeah?
Yeah.
What they like?
Ginger's mad, he says things all the time and Eddy's good at punching and spitting.
How about Ding Dong?
He's a big head and he fancies himself with it but you know it's all right 'cos he's one of the gang.
Why aren't you at work?
I'm a deserter, too.
Oh.
Lay them down.
Eh?
Lay them down.
We'd be thrown out.
Your cards... lay them down... face up.
They're yours.
They are?
The cards... you're bank.
Of course, John.
Yes, they were playing the queues outside the picture palaces of Liverpool. Scruffy young lads, lacking even the price of a jam roll. Orphans, every Paddy's son of 'em. I saw their potential at once although I had me doubts about the little fella, a savage primitive, that Ringo, but it was him what gave in first. He picked up a brick and heaved it at me and I quelled him wid one fierce flash of me eyes. "Mister, can you spare us a copper?" he said. I was disarmed by the grubby little outstretched mauler ... So, I took them under me managerial banner.
The usual ten per cent?
Oh, not at all, I let them have twentyfive; sure aren't there four of them?
How fascinating. Do go on ... ... John.
... Oh, I'm all heart, Ma'am, all heart ... Well, I let ...
I'm afraid the word brings up the most unpleasant connatations in this day and age...
Yes... I...
You can call me Sister.
... Thank you.
You must have tons of questions. You may smoke if you want to. Just don't tell any of the Sisters.
You were a smoker?
Two packs a day.
I can beat that.
Unfiltered.
Who knew about Agnes' pregnancy?
Noone.
How did she hide it from the other nuns?
She undressed alone... she bathed alone.
Is that normal?
Yes.
How did she hide it during the day?
She could have hidden a machine gun in here if she had wanted to.
Didn't she have any physical examinations in this time?
We're examined once a year. Her pregnancy fell in between the doctor's visits.
Who was the father?
I haven't a clue.
What man had access to her?
None as far as I know.
Was there a priest?
Yes, but I...
What's his name?
Father Martineau, but I don't see him as a candidate.
Could there have been anyone else?
Obviously there was.
And you didn't try to find out who?
Believe me, I've done everything possible short of asking Agnes.
Why haven't you asked her?
She can't even remember the birth. Do you think she'd admit to the conception?
Look, someone gave her the baby.
Yes, but that was some ten months ago. I fail to see that the identity of that somebody has anything to do with this trial.
Why do you think that?
Don't ask me those questions dear, I'm not the patient.
Well I'm the doctor. I'm the one who's going to decide what is, or is not important here.
Look doctor, I don't know how to tell you this politely, but I don't approve of you. Not you personally...
The science of psychiatry.
Exactly. I want you do deal with Agnes as speedily and as easily as possible. She won't hold up under any sort of cross examination.
I am not with the Inquisition.
And I am not from the Middle Ages. I know what you are! I don't want that mind cut open.
Well... what do you think? Is she totally bananas or merely slightly off centre... or maybe she's perfectly sane and just a very good liar.
What's your opinion?
I believe Agnes is different.
From other nuns... Yes I... I've noticed.
From other people! I believe she is not crazy, nor is she lying.
How could she have a baby and know nothing of sex or birth?
Because she's an innocent. She's a slate that's hasn't been touched except by God.
That's ridiculous...
In her case it isn't. She's had very little schooling. Her mother kept her home almost all the time and when her mother died Agnes came here, to us. She's never been out there Doctor. She's never seen a movie or a television show. She's never even read a book.
If she's so innocent, how come she murdered a child?
She didn't! This is manslaughter, not murder. She didn't consciously kill that baby. She'd lost a lot of blood. She was unconscious by the time we got to her.
So, someone else could have done it.
No... not in the eyes of the police.
And in your eyes?
I've already told you what I thought.
That she was unconscious, yes! So someone easily could have come in the room and killed the...
You don't really believe something like that happened do you?
It's possible isn't it?
Who?
One of the other nuns found out about the baby and... and wanted to avoid a scandal.
That's absurd!
That possibility never occurred to you?
Noone knew about Agnes' pregnancy. Noone. Not even Agnes.
This convent is locked solid. The only one that has a key is Sister Marguerite and she wouldn't let Christ in after dark.
Well, it's been known to happen in the day too. Maybe Agnes went to him.
Oh come on, you've talked to her. She doesn't even know how babies are born, let alone made.
When did you first learn about her... innocence, the way she thinks?
Shortly after she came to us.
And you weren't shocked?
I was appalled, just as you are now.
And what happened?
She stopped eating completely...
This was before her pregnancy?
About two years before.
Why didn't you take her to a doctor?
It was healed by the following morning and she started eating again...
She had a... a hole in the palm of her hand! She could have bled to death.
But she didn't... did she. If anyone had seen what I'd seen she'd be public property... newspapermen, psychiatrists, ridicule. She doesn't deserve that.
She has it now.
I know what you're thinking, she's a hysteric pure and simple.
Not simple, no.
I saw it. Clean through the palm of her hand. Do you think hysteria could do that?
It's being doing it for centuries. She's not unique, she's just another victim.
God's victim. That's her innocence. She belongs to God.
And I intend to take her away from Him. That's what you're afraid of isn't it?
You hate us don't you?
What?
Nuns... you hate nuns.
I hate ignorance and stupidity.
The Catholic Church...
I haven't said anything against the the Catholic Church.
Catholicism is not on trial here. I want you to deal with Agnes without any religious prejudice or you turn this case over to someone else...
How dare you tell me to run my affairs!
It's my affair too.
How dare you think I'm in a position to be pressured...
I'm only interested...
... or bullied or what ever you're doing. Who the hell do you think you are? You go around here expecting applause for the way you treated this child.
She is not a child.
And she has a right to know that there's a world out there filled with people who don't believe in God... ... and aren't any worse off than you Mother. People who've gone through their entire lives without bending their knees once, to anybody. And people who fall in love and have babies and occas sionally are very happy. She has a right to know that. But you and your... your order and your Church have kept her ignorant...
???
??? ... virginity, right Mother? Poverty, chastity and ignorance is what you live by.
I am not a virgin, Doctor. I was married for twenty three years, two daughters. I even have grandchildren... surprised? It might please you to know that I was a failure as a wife and mother. My children won't even see me any more, that's their revenge. I think they tell their friends that I've passed on. And don't tell me I'm making up for past mistakes Doctor Freud.
Then help her.
I am...
No, you're shielding her. Let her face the world.
What good would it do. No matter what you decide it's either the... the prison or the nut house and the differences between them are pretty thin.
There's another choice.
What?
Aquittal.
How?
Innocence. Legal innocence. I know the judge would be happy for any reason to throw this case out of court.
All right, what do you need.
Answers.
When would Agnes have conceived the child?
Oh, some time in January.
Do you remember anything unusual happening at the time?
Earthquakes?
Visitors to the convent.
Nothing.
Do you have a... a diary or a day book?
Yes.
Take at look at it.
There's nothing here.
Was the child full term?
Oh, Dear God...
What is it?
The sheets...
What sheets?
Oh, Dear God, I should have guessed...
When was that?
The twenty third of January. On that night one of our elder nuns passed away.
Sister Paul?
Yes. I don't remember where Agnes was. I was needed in the sick room.
You lied to me
About what?
Your niece!
I didn't tell you because I didn't think it was important.
No, it just makes you doubly responsible doesn't it?
I never saw Agnes until she set foot in this convent. My sister ran away from home. We lost touch with her. And when my husband died and I came here, she wrote to me and asked me if I would take care of Agnes in case anything happened.
And Agnes' father?
Like keeping her home from school?
Yes.
Listening to angels?
She drank too much. That's what killed her.
Do you know what she did to her?
I don't think I care to know.
She molested her!
Oh, dear God.
There is more here than meets the eye isn't there? Lots of dirty little secrets.
Oh God, if only I'd known.
Why didn't you? You knew she was keeping her home from school. You knew she was an alcoholic.
I knew that after the fact.
Why didn't you do anything to stop her?
Because I didn't know...
Oh, God.
And my permission?
I'd like yours too.
We'll see about that.
Don't deny it!
I haven't decided yet.
The woman's health is at stake.
Her spiritual health.
I don't give a damn about her spiritual health.
I know you don't.
An unhappy woman...
She's happy with us and she could go on being happy if she was left alone.
Then why did you call the police in the first place Mother, huh?
Because I am a moral person.
Bullshit!
Bullshit yourself!
Catholic Church doesn't have a corner on morality...
Who said anything about the Catholic Church...
You just said...
What the hell has the Catholic Church got to do with you?
Nothing...
What have we done to hurt you? And don't deny it, I can smell an exCatholic a mile away. What did we do? Burn a few heretics, sell some indulgences? That was in the days when the Church was a ruling body. We let governments do those things today. So what did we do to you eh? You wanted to neck in the back seat of a car when you were fifteen and you couldn't because it was a sin?
It wasn't sex. It was a lot of things, but it wasn't sex. You know when I was in the first grade my best friend was run over on the way to school, you know what the nun said? She died because she hadn't said her morning prayers.
Stupid woman... and that's all?
That's all? That's enough! She was a beautiful little girl.
And what has that to do with it?
I wasn't. I wasn't. She was the pretty one. She died, why not me? I never said my morning prayers. And I was ugly, I was scrawny, I had buck teeth and freckles all over my face, do you know what the nun called me, Sister Mary Clitus, called me Polkadot Livingston.
So you left the Church because you had freckles?
No, because I... yeah, yeah I left the Church cause I had freckles.
My sister died in a convent. And it's her voice I hear. Does my smoking bother you?
No, it reminds me.
Would you like one? Huh?
I'd love one.
I'm out of prac... ... practice.
All right?
Fine thanks...
Do you suppose the saints would have smoked if tobacco had been popular back then?
Undoubtedly. Not the ascetics of course but, well Saint Thomas More...
Long, thin and filtered.
Saint Ignatius would smoke cigars and stub them out on the soles of his bare feet. And of course
Hand rolled.
Even Christ would partake socially.
Saint Peter?
Pipe!
Right...
Mary Magdelen?
Oh, you've come a long way baby.
And Saint John would chew tobacco.
Right. What do you suppose today's saints are smoking?
There are no saints today. Good people yes, but extraordinarily good people... those I'm afraid we are sorely lacking.
Do you think they ever existed?
Yes I do.
Do you want to become one?
Become? One is born a saint.
Well you can try, can't you, to be good?
Yes, but goodness has very little to do with it. Not all the saints were good, in fact some of them were a little crazy. But... they were still attached to God. Agnes has that birth. No more... we're born, we live, we die. No room for miracles. Oh my dear, how I miss the miracles.
Do you think Agnes is still attached to God?
Listen to her singing.
I'd like to begin.
Begin what?
The hypnotism. Do you still disapprove?
Would it stop you if I did?
No.
May I be present?
Of course.
Then let's begin.
Stop this, she'll hurt herself I'm not going to allow this.
NO... no... I said leave her alone.
I've just met with the bishop. We're taking you off the case.
You're what?
If we want to hire a psychiatrist for Agnes. we'll find our own, thank you.
One that will ask the questions you want asked.
One that will approach this matter with some objectivity and respect.
For the Church?
For Agnes.
You think she's a saint?
She's been touched by God, yes.
How? How? She hallucinates, stops eating and bleeds spontaneously. Is that supposed to convince me she shouldn't be touched. Give me a miracle.
The father!
Who is he?
Why must he be anybody?
My God, you're as crazy as...
Stop laughing, I don't say it's the truth, I'm saying...
How ?
Don't be ridiculous.
Well give me a reasonable explanation
A miracle is an event without an explanation. If she's capable of putting a hole in her hand without benefit of a nail, why couldn't she split a cell in her womb?
This is insane.
There as no man in the convent on that night and no way for any man to get in or out.
You're saying God did it?
But how did it happen?
You'll never find the answer for everything God did.
I thought you didn't believe in miracles today Mother?
But I want the opportunity to believe. I want the choice to believe.
But what you are choosing to believe is a lie because you won't face the fact that she was raped... or seduced... or that she did the seducing.
She is an innocent.
But she is not an enigma Mother. Everything that Agnes has done is explainable from modern psychiatry. One, two, three, right down the line.
That's what you believe she is? The sum of her psychological parts?
That's what I have to believe...
Then why are you so obsessed with her? You're losing sleep over her? You're thinking about her all the time. You're bent on saving her. Why?
There's a tunnel out of the crypt into the barn. Did you know about that? There's an answer Mother. That's how she got out.
That's crazy. How could she find out about it?
Somebody told her.
Who? That tun... that tunnel hasn't been used in fifty years.
Oh, would you stop lying Mother!
Why would I lie?
Because it's murder we're talking about. Aren't you concerned about what she told us about the other person in her room.
I'm concerned about her health.
Who was that person Mother? Was it you?
If you believe this is murder, it is the Crown attorney you have to talk to, not me. And definitely not Agnes.
This is permission to take her apart.
Where is she?
Hasn't she had enough?
I have a few more questions to ask her.
My God, but you're determined.
Who knew she was pregnant?
Why do you insist upon pressing...
Was it you?
Is it because she's a nun?
Did you know she was pregnant?
Yes.
And you didn't send her to a doctor.
I didn't guess until it was too late.
For what? An abortion?
Oh, don't be ridiculous.
Too late for what?
I don't know... too late to stop it.
The baby?
The scandal...
You went to the room to help with the birth.
She didn't want any help.
You wanted that child out of the way.
That's a lie.
You hid the wastepaper basket in her room.
I didn't hide it. I put it there for the blood and the dirty sheets.
And the baby.
No!
You tied the cord around its neck.
I wanted her to have it when noone else was around, they would have taken the baby to a hospital and left it with them, but it was such a difficult birth, there was so much blood and I panicked.
Before or after you killed the child?
I left it with her and I went for help.
I doubt that's what she'd say.
Then she's a liar.
That's enough.
Agnes, what happened to the baby?
She can't remember.
What happened to the baby?
Oh, don't do this!
Wasn't it!
No.
Well you're probably right about that. It certainly can't help Sister Agnes to have this investigation continued for any length of time.
Why do you call it an investigation? I never have.
Your mother was a resident of Saint Catherines home before you moved her.
What does this have to do with..?
And you had a sister who died in the convent.
Who told you this?
Do you still go to church?
What business is it of yours..?
Oh, we just wonder if you can be very objective about this case.
Look, Father, ah... just because I don't subscribe to the... to the beliefs you subscribe to...
But what you believe makes no difference to us whatsoever Doctor. But it does make all the difference to Agnes.
I don't understand. Are you expecting me to..?
Well somone's got to suffer for this Doctor. You've got to be merciful and quick. Excuse me.
The convent was built for over fifty. Not many of us left... just us and the chickens.
How do you survive?
Oh, we own the land around here. But we rent it out. We keep a few acres for ourselves, some wheat, corn, some vegetables.
Well that's a lot of land. You must have help. Do you have field hands that help you?
No. We work the land alone. Noone but Sister Marguerite and I are permitted contact with the public.
Sister Anne, which was Agnes' room?
Oh that one there, in the corner.
The one up on the third floor?
Yes.
Uh huh.
Hello, Mama ... brought you something.
Shut up, I'm trying to watch this.
It's your favourite...
Who are you?
It's Martha, Mama. There you go.
Marie brings me icecream too you know. Chocolate... my favourite.
I thought cherryvanilla was your favourite.
Not any more... now I like chocolate.
Did you have a good week Mama. Are they treating you all right?
You know Martha never comes to see me. You watch it, she's going straight to hell... after all the things she said to me. Then she marries that son of a bitch of a Frenchman... has an abortion. I knew that one wouldn't work out. Not like you Marie. You got married to God.
Marie's dead Mama.
I remember when you was a little girl Marie. You come back from the movies and you'd say  Mama that ending was so sad... and I'd tell you they had all the happy endings locked away in a vault in Hollywood. And you believed me.
Mama, that wasn't Marie, that was me!
Who are you?
I... I'm Martha, Mama.
Martha, it's you.
What about Roger? He's free.
Would you tell me why the hell this is taking so long.
Look there are a lot of unanswered questions here.
???
I don't believe this. I don't bloody believe this.
All I want is one more week.
Why? You've done nothing to show any progress.
Yes, that's because I'm getting to her.
You're getting to all of us Martha, let's face it.
I'll have a decision by next week.
It's gone on long enough. You're out.
Oh Joe... Joe she didn't kill the baby.
You have proof?
I'll have it.
When?
Next week.
No, no, no...
I can get you new evidence next week.
No!
Tomorrow... tomorrow, I'll get it by tomorrow. I will.
Here you are. Don't let anyone know where you got them.
Thanks...
Larry...
Marty, what are you doing here?
Larry there's got to be something missing.
I gave you the pictures Marty, what else do you want?
Something they... that they overlooked.
What? You think that the girl is innocent?
I don't know.
You got to be crazy.
Larry...
What's the matter with you, you've seen the reports. It's a cut and dried case.
Maybe there's something that's not in the report that should be.
You're too involved Marty. Jesus look at you. Why don't you turn this case over to someone else?
Thanks.
If I find anything I'll call you.
Are you dictating my position to me? We're getting into some sticky legal territories here.
Martha, all we're saying is, noone wants this to come to trial, not the Church, not the Crown... least of all me.
Eve, she strangled a baby!
Nobody is interested in sending a nun to prison.
Martha, you have to make a decision on her sanity as quickly as possible and not interfere with due process of law.
No... no, excuse me Eve. As quickly as I see fit.
The longer you take to make a decision, the more difficult it will be for us.
Why?
The bishop is breathing down our necks.
And the sooner she goes to prison, the better off she'll be?
I've been watching. We were fine 'till she came. She brought the devil here. There was blood on her hand that night.
Agnes? Who? Mother Superior?
???
What?
Look into the convent records.
Sister...
Hello. I'm Doctor Livingston. I've been asked to talk to you. May I?
Yes.
You have a lovely voice.
No I don't.
I just heard you.
That wasn't me.
Was it Sister Marguerite?
No I'm not.
Hasn't anyone ever told you that before?
Let's talk about something else.
What would you like to talk about.
I don't know.
Anything... may I sit down?
Yes.
First thing that comes to your mind?
God! But there's nothing to say about God.
Second thing that comes to your mind.
Love.
Have you ever loved anyone?
Yes.
Who?
Everyone.
Well, who in particular?
Right now?
Uh huh.
I love you.
Agnes, have you ever loved another man... other than, Jesus Christ?
Yes.
Who?
Oh, there are so many.
Well do you love... do you love Father Martineau?
Oh, yes!
Do you think he loves you?
Oh, I know he does.
He's told you?
No. But... when I look into his eyes, I can tell.
You've been alone together?
Yes.
Often?
At least once a week.
And you like that?
Oh, yes.
Where do you meet?
In the confessional.
You want to talk about the baby don't you?
Would you like to talk about it?
I never saw any baby... I think they made it up.
Why should they?
I don't know.
Do you remember the night they said it came?
No. I was sick.
How were you sick?
Something I ate.
Did it hurt?
Yes.
Where?
Down... there.
And what did you do?
I went to my room.
And what happened?
I got sicker.
And then what?
I fell asleep.
In the middle of all the pain?
Yes.
Where did the baby come from?
What baby?
The baby they made up.
From their heads...
Is that where they say it came from... ?
No, they say it came from the waste paper basket!
Where'd it come from before that?
From God.
After God... before the wastepaper basket.
I... I don't understand.
Agnes, how are babies born?
Don't you know?
Yes I do, but I want you to...
I don't understand what you're talking about... you want to talk about the baby... everybody wants to talk about the baby but... I never saw the baby so I can't talk about the baby because... I don't believe in the baby.
Then let's talk about something else...
No... no, I'm tired of talking, I've been talking for weeks, nobody believes me when I tell them anything... nobody listens to me.
Agnes...
No... no, I don't want to answer any more questions.
Would you like to ask them?
What do you mean?
Just that... you ask and I'll answer.
Anything?
Anything.
What's your real name?
Martha Louise Livingston.
Are you married?
No.
Would you like to be?
Not at the moment, no.
Do you have any children?
No.
Would you like some?
I can't have them any more.
Why not?
I've stopped menstruating
Why do you smoke?
Does it bother you?
No questions.
Smoking is an obsession with me. Maybe one day I'll become obsessed with something else, then I'll stop smoking... Do you have any more questions?
One.
What?
Where do you think babies come from?
From their mothers and fathers of course. Before that, I... I don't know.
Well I think they come from... angel lights on their mothers chest and whispers into her ear. That makes good babies start to grow. And bad babies come from when a fallen angel squeezes in down there, and they start to grow, grow, till they come out down there. I don't know where good babies come out. And you can't tell the difference... except bad babies cry a lot... and they make their fathers go away... and their mothers get very ill... die sometimes.
Do you know a Marie?
No... do you?
Why should I?
I don't know.
You liked Sister Paul?
She was kind to me. She told me I was beautiful.
What else did she tell you?
She said all of God's angels would want to sleep beside me if they could. I liked that.
Sister Paul was in her eighties? Did she climb up here often?
No, only when she felt like it. She brought me up here last winter and the next day she died.
No wonder... wait... Agnes... Agnes how do you feel about babies?
Oh, they frighten me, I'm afraid I'll drop them. They have a soft spot on their heads and if you drop them so they land on their heads they become stupid. I was dropped on my head, that's why I don't understand things.
Like what?
Numbers... you can spend your whole life counting and never reach the end.
I don't understand them either. Do you suppose I was dropped on my head?
I hope not. It's a terrible thing to be dropped on your head.
Oh, I've got to give up smoking. Agnes ... wait a minute... Agnes slow down.
What happens if the bell rings and you're under there?
Oh, it's even more wonderful then.
It's like hiding from my mother when I was a little girl.
Where did you go?
Oh, no place as wonderful as this. Agnes... have you ever thought of leaving the convent for something else?
No. There is nothing else. Just being here at night helps me sleep.
You have trouble sleeping?
I get headaches. Mommy did too... oh, but she wasn't stupid. She knew things that nobody else knew.
What things?
She knew what was going to happen to me. That's why she hid me away.
How did she know that?
Somebody told her.
Who?
I don't know.
Agnes...
You'll laugh.
I promise I won't laugh. Who told her?
An angel, when she was having one of her headaches.
Did your mother see angels often?
No.
Do you?
No.
Do you believe she really saw them?
No, but I can never tell her that.
Why not? Mmm?
She'd get angry.
Agnes, did you love your mother?
Yes.
Did you ever want to be a mother yourself?
I could never be a mother.
Why not?
Well I don't think I'm old enough and besides I don't want to have a baby.
Why not?
Because I don't want one.
If you did want one, how'd you go about getting one?
From someone who didn't want to have a baby.
Like you?
How would that person get one if they didn't want one?
A mistake...
Agnes, how did your mother get you?
A mistake... it was a mistake...
Is that what she said?
If you're trying to get me to say that she was a bad woman and hated me and didn't want me but that's not true, she was a good woman, a saint...
Agnes, I don't believe you know nothing about sex...
I can't help it if I'm stupid.
... that you don't remember getting pregnant...
Not my fault.
... and that you don't believe you carried a child.
I was a mistake.
What the child?
Everything... I don't have children.
Agnes...
Agnes, I'm here because I want to help you.
I'm not sick.
But you're troubled... aren't you?
That's because you keep reminding me. If you go away then I'll forget.
And you're unhappy.
Everyone's unhappy, you're unhappy aren't you?
Agnes...
Answer me! You never answer me.
Sometimes, yes.
Only you think you're lucky because you didn't have a mother who said things to you and did things to you that maybe weren't always nice but that was because of me, because I was bad, not her.
What did you do?
I'm always bad.
What did you do?
I breathed!
Agnes. What did your mother do to you? If you can't answer me, just shake your head yes or no. Did... did she hit you? Did she make you do something you didn't want to? Did it make you feel uncomfortable to do it? Did it embarrass you? Did it... did it hurt you? What did she make you you do?
No...
You can tell me.
I can't.
She's dead isn't she?
Yes.
She can't hurt you any more.
She can.
How?
She watches... she listens.
Agnes, I don't believe that. Tell me. I'll protect you from her.
She...
Yes?
... makes me...
Yes?
... take off my clothes and then... she makes fun of me.
She tells you you're ugly?
Yes.
And that you're stupid?
Yes.
That you're a mistake?
She says my whole body's a mistake.
Why?
Because she says if I don't watch out I'll have a baby.
How does she know that?
Her headaches.
Oh, yes.
And then...
What?
She touches me down there with a cigarette. Please Mommy, don't touch me like that any more. I'll be good, I won't be a baby any more.
Agnes, oh Agnes, Agnes I want you to do something. I want you to pretend that I'm your mother. Oh yes, only this time I want you to tell me what you're feeling, alright?
I'm afraid.
Please! I want to help you. Let me help you.
Alright.
Agnes, you're ugly!... what do you say? Of course you do. Agnes, you're ugly!... what do you say?
No I'm not.
Are you pretty?
Yes.
Agnes, you're stupid.
No I'm not.
Are you intelligent?
Yes I am.
You're a mistake.
I'm not mistake, I'm here aren't I. How can I be a mistake if I'm really here. God doesn't make mistakes, you're a mistake...
Oh Agnes, oh Agnes, it's alright, it's alright, it's alright, it's alright, I love you.
Do you really love me or are you just saying that?
I really love you.
As much as Mother Miriam does?
As much as God loves you.
You're listening to a chorus of angels. The music surrounds you like a... warm and, comfortable pool of water. And while you're sleeping, you're going to be able to recall, all the things that we want you to remember. And when I count to three and clap my hands, you'll no longer be hypnotised. Can you hear me.
Yes.
Who am I?
Doctor Livingston.
And why am I here?
To help me.
Good. Would you like to tell me why you're here?
Because I'm in trouble.
What kind of trouble? What kind of trouble Agnes?
I'm frightened.
Of what?
Of telling you.
But it's easy. It's just a breath with sound. Say it. What kind of trouble?
I had a baby.
How did you have a baby?
It came out of me.
Did you know what was going to come out?
Yes.
Did you want it to come out?
No.
Why?
Because I was afraid.
Why were you afraid?
Because I wasn't worthy.
To be a mother?
Yes.
Why?
May I open my eyes now?
No not yet Agnes, very soon but not yet. How did the baby get into you?
It grew.
What made it grow? Do you know?
Yes.
Would you like to tell me?
No.
Did anyone else know about the baby?
I can't tell you that.
Will she be angry?
She made me promise not to.
Who? Who made you promise? It's alright Agnes. It's alright. Let's go to your room. It's the night about six weeks ago when you were very sick.
I'm afraid.
Oh don't be, I'm here. It's alright. I want you to tell me what you did before you went to bed.
I ate.
Hm hmm. What did you have for dinner?
Fish... ... brussel sprouts.
You don't like brussel sprouts?
I hate them.
And then what happened?
We went to chapel for vespers.
Hm hmm.
I left early because I wasn't feeling very well.
What is it?
Someone's following me.
Who?
Sister Marguerite I think.
Was it Sister Marguerite who knew about the baby? Alright Agnes, I want you to see your room as you saw it on that night.
My bed.
What else?
A crucifix.
Above the bed? Any... anything else? What do you you see, something different? What is it?
A wastepaper basket.
Do you know who put it there?
No.
What do you think it's there for?
For me to get sick in.
Are you ill?
Yes.
What do you feel?
I feel as if I've eaten glass.
What do you do?
I have to throw up...
Which one?
I don't know which one
Of what?
Of me. Oh... God! My God... Water... it's all water...
Why isn't anyone coming?
They can't hear me that's why. Oh God... I don't wanna...
Who?
Go away, I don't want you here.
Is someone in the room with you?
No... don't hit me please...
Alright Agnes... it's alright. One, two three... It's alright... it's me, Doctor Livingston, it's alright, alright. Thankyou Agnes, thankyou. How do you feel?
Frightened.
Do you remember what just happened?
Yes.
That's good. Do you feel well enough to stand?
Yes.
Agnes, can you hear me?
Yes.
I want you to remember if you can a night last January. The night Sister Paul died. Do you remember.
She said Michael.
What did she mean?
The statue. She had shown it to me the day before.
And the passage to the barn?
Yes.
Why?
So I could go to him.
Who?
Him.
How did she know about him?
She'd seen him too.
Where?
From the belltower the day she before she died.
So she sent you?
Yes.
Are you frightened?
Yes.
It's bleeding... I'm bleeding... my God it won't stop, I can't get it to stop. Let go of me, I wish you were dead.
Agnes... Agnes...
Stay away from me...
Agnes it had nothing to do with the hand of God. He did a terrible thing to you, do you understand?
No...
He frightened you and he hurt you. It's not your fault. It's his fault. Tell us who he is so we can find him. Stop him from doing this to other women.
Not your fault...
Agnes who did you see?
I hate him...
Of course you do. Who was it?
I hate him for what he did to me.
Yes.
For what he made me go through.
Who?
I hate him.
Agnes, who did this to you?
God! It was God. And now I'll burn in hell because I hate him.
Agnes you won't burn in hell. It's alright to hate him.
It was dead.
It was alive wasn't it?
I don't remember.
Mother Miriam was with you wasn't she?
Yes.
She took the baby in her arms?
Yes.
You saw it all didn't you?
Yes.
And then... what did she do? Agnes what did she do?
She... left me alone with that little thing, and I looked at it, and I thought this is a mistake. But it's my mistake, not Mommy's. God's mistake.
What did you do?
I put her to sleep.
H... how?
I tied the cord around her neck... wrapped her in the bloody sheets... and stuffed her in the trash can.
Agnes, it has come to my attention that you have stopped eating. Why is this? AGNES I've been commanded by God.
He talked to you Himself?
No.
Through someone else?
Yes.
Who?
I can't say.
Why?
She'd punish me.
One of the other Sisters?
No.
Who?
Because I'm getting fat.
Oh, for Heaven's sake.
I am, there's too much flesh on me.
Agnes...
I'm a blimp.
Why does it matter whether you're fat or not...
Because...
... You needn't worry about being attractive here.
I do, I have to be attractive to God.
He loves you the way you are.
No he doesn't. He hates fat people.
Who told you this?
It's a sin to be fat.
Why?
Look at the statues, they're thin.
Agnes...
That's because they're suffering... suffering is beautiful, I want to be beautiful.
Who tells you these things?
Christ said it in the Bible, he said  suffer the little children, I want to suffer like a little child.
That's not what he meant.
I... I am a little child but my body keeps getting bigger and soon I... I won't be able to fit in, I... I won't be able to squeeze into Heaven.
Agnes dear, Heaven is not a place where...
No... I mean... I mean look at these. I've got to lose weight, I'm a blimp.
Oh my dear child.
God blew up the Hindenburg. He'll blow me up, that's what she said...
Who?
Mommy I'll get bigger and bigger every day and then I'll pop but... but if I stay little it won't happen.
Your mother tells you this?... Agnes your mother is dead.
But she watches... she listens.
Nonsense, I'm your mother now and I want you to eat.
I'm not hungry.
You've got to eat something Agnes.
No I don't... the host is enough.
My dear, I don't think a communion wafer has the recommended daily allowance of anything.
Of God.
Yes, of God.
I'm being punished.
Why?
I don't know.
Dear Jesus...
Sister Marguerite says you have been sleeping on a bare mattress Sister. Is that true?
Yes Mother.
Why?
In the medieval days the nuns and monks would sleep in their own coffins.
We're not in the Middle Ages, Sister.
It made them holy.
It made them uncomfortable. And if they didn't sleep well I'm certain the next day they were cranky as mules. Sister where are your sheets? Do you really believe that sleeping on a bare mattress is the equivalent of sleeping in a coffin?
No.
Then tell me. Where are your sheets?
I burnt them.
Why?
They were stained.
How many times have I burned into your thick skull and the thick skull of your fellow novice, that menstruation is a perfectly natural process and nothing to be ashamed of.
Yes, Mother.
Say it!
A few years ago one of the Sisters came to me in tears, asking for comfort, comfort because she was too old to have any children. Not that she wanted to, but once a month she had been reminded of that possibility.
It's not that... it's not that...
What do you mean?
It's not my time of month.
Should you see a doctor?
I don't know. I don't know what happened Mother, I woke up... there was blood on the sheets, but I don't know what happened. I don't know what I did wrong, I don't know and I should be punished.
For what?
I don't know... I don't know...
That was the beginning, the night of the conception. That's why she burnt the sheets.
Zuria?
Yes. Until proven otherwise.
I would like to ask you something.
Wait a moment. Can't you see I'm busy?
She costs a hundred thousand lire.
You're kidding!
No, I'm not. Why do you think she does all this? It's one of the many ways she can put herself on display. When you bait the trap, the mouse will snap. To tell you the truth, if it wasn't for the fact that one hundred thousand lire represents my whole month's salary, well... But you had something you wanted to ask me?
I read one of your articles regarding the disappearance of a girl. I'm that girl's fianc.
Oh... I'm sorry I have to rush but I've got to write a story about this thing that just happened... Tell me exactly how it all turned out.
Now listen, if I had any information, I wouldn't have come here to ask you. But I see that you, too, lack any information ...
As a matter of fact, I've already had several phone calls on that article. One said they had seen the missing girl in an automobile somewhere in Rome. Another one said they saw her on the pier talking with some strange sailors... Could be she secretly left the island by boat...
Is that possible?
Who knows?... Another one has it that she entered a store in Troina. This information comes from the storekeeper himself who stated that such and such a girl had bought I don't know what in his store... at Troina.
Is that far from here?
About fifty miles or so. If you want, I'll give you the name of the storekeeper.
Yes... of course... But you should also print that in your paper... But right away, tomorrow morning... It's the local Palermo paper, isn't it?... I mean, it's widely read...
Yes, but why do you think our readers would be interested in such news now? Even if I sent it, the editors wouldn't print it.
You really must do me this one favor.
Pardon me, but why must I do you a favor?
Then let's call it a business proposition. Something to round out your salary.
Why have we stopped?
Lady Patrizia!
Raimondo... Do you enjoy fishing underwater?
I detest it. But, after all, what can you do... It's the latest...and I try my best to adapt myself.
Now, tell the truth, aren't you a bit disappointed?... But I already told you...
If women's breasts were colored, yours would be blue...
Patrizia, don't start in again... I would rather be called depraved. Unless you happen to love children.
You know, I don't love anybody.
I know, dammit, I know! And just think  if there ever was a woman so right, so perfectly cut out for all kinds of dissipations, degradations, infidelities... of.. . of... of debaucheries, it's her. Well, anyway, she's faithful. Faithful out of laziness... of unwillingness.
You've made some mistake there with the bushes... that's why you can't finish it.
Take it easy, Raimondo. Why are you getting so impatient?
Here I am, Patrizia. I'm always here.
Claudia isn't coming with us. Will you please take care of her luggage? Thanks.
Perhaps she wasn't feeling well... Maybe a cramp or something...
Anna is an excellent swimmer. Even with a cramp, she would have managed to reach shore somehow.
But you have to consider all possibilities, Sandro.
Listen, Patrizia... The Marshal says there's a current that passes by here and ends up at another island... I don't know which... He wants to send one of his men over to have a look... One never knows... Do you mind if I ask Raimondo to go with him?
I don't see why I should mind.
Patrizia, what are you going to do?
What do you want us to do? I don't know myself... But we'll do something.
I'll go and get my valise.
We've decided to go to Montaldo's place. In fact, Ettore should already be there.
Good. Then I'll meet you there.
And here's Sandro. Why don't you two go upstairs and change?
Yes, we will.
Did you manage to find good rooms?
They didn't seem too good.
You should have told Ettore. He always manages to get what he wants.
Ettore must be fed up with me by now.
Oh, no, not at all. And then you know very well that he'll forgive you anything; just as long as you admit to him that you're a worse driver than he is...
Your mother?
Yes, even I had a mother. She was part Austrian, but she was still my mother. My childhood was like a tennis match; they bounced me back and forth, here and there...
Are you the owner of this place?
No. The owners are in Australia.
But where did you come from?
From Panarea. Why?
Whose boat is that?
What boat?
Just a moment ago... didn't you hear the sound of a motor?
At this time of the year there are so many boats...
And how come you're up so early?
Early? Is four in the morning early for you?
I only exchanged a few casual words with her, as one would ordinarily do on a public bus...
And do you remember where she got off?
Well...probably at the last stop, which is Noto.
Then you should also be able to tell me where a young girl might stay in Noto; are there any hotels or rooming houses?
There's the Trinacria Hotel... or the Regina, near the municipal building. As for rooming houses, I don't know...
Thank you.
Don't mention it... Pleased to be of service any time.
Anything new develop?
Unfortunately, no.
Very well. First of all, I'll have them search the waters around the island. I brought two frogmen with me... Meanwhile, we'll take a look up around here.
Look, Marshal, with those deep crevasses, you'll need some rope and ladders...
Don't worry, we've got everything.
Another thing; there's an old man who lives here on the island...
I know, I know. One thing at a time.
I work there but I'm really a stranger.
I tell you this acquaintance of mine knows you and she has often spoken to me about you.
And who is she? Does she work in Catania?
Yes, she takes care of the garden.
Then it's impossible for her to know me. In the villa where I'm at, we have a male gardener.
So? That's logical. You see, both being gardeners, they spoke about you to one another.
And what did they say about me?
They told me that you were a very nice girl, that you always mind your business... In other words, things of that sort.
We have a radio like this, too.
No, not like this one.
And why wouldn't we have one like this?
Because this is a Chinese radio.
Certainly a radio this small is very practical. It's especially useful for... I don't know... for traveling.
But for you, what comes first: music or love?
Music, of course. To get a sweetheart, one has to look around, but to get a radio, all you have to do is buy one.
Ah, no... For me, love comes first. I'm a man, and I know what's what: first love, and then music.
They tell me you have a lot of trouble at home. Is that right?
Yes, sir. My sister is sick... and my father, too.
So that's why you've turned to smuggling, eh? You need the money. Now, I can help you. I can see that you get some assistance from the government. But first there's a little formality we've got to take care of. Just a few questions and then we can all go to lunch... Your friend tells me you dropped anchor three times...
Yes, sir. Three times.
Now, we're getting somewhere! They're beginning to contradict each other. Now look here, your friend just swore to me that you weren't able to do any fishing at all because the sea was too rough... And what about the other boat?
What other boat?
Now look, my men saw it and they also saw you men throwing those crates overboard. What have you got to say about that?
I ... I ... wasn't feeling well ... I.. I was sleeping... I don't know anything ... I ... I'm all mixed up and ...
Goffredo is the Princess' nephew. He's eighteen years old, the lucky boy. And, what do you know  he paints.
Anybody can hold a brush in his hand. All you need is to buy some oils and start painting. Even Rembrandt did the same.
Giulia...
Here I am.
Because there is no landscape as beautiful as a woman.
And where do you find the models?
Oh, there are as many as one wants.
I thought the model was something obsolete nowadays. Didn't you, Claudia?
It's strange how anxious women are to display themselves. It's almost a natural inclination.
But how could they pose like that? I couldn't.
Why don't you try?
Me... Goffredo, you're mad! He's mad.
Don't you ever paint men?
Answer me, why don't you try posing? I'll paint you a beautiful portrait.
But why me?... Ask Claudia, she's much more beautiful than me.
But I want to paint you. You appeal to me more.
I appeal to you more?
Let's see you dive from the top of those rocks, Giulia. That would be really sensational. Come on, Giulia ... your life is much too circumscribed.
What has everybody got against me this morning?
Where is she going?
Ask her.
The trouble with you is that nobody can speak to you, that's all.
Giulia, don't you understand that the more involved you become with people, the more difficult it is to speak with them?
You men are all so dreadful!
I know we are. But as the years go by, we become even worse. Isn't that so, Corrado?
And who is this?
This is Claudia, Anna's friend... You've never met my husband, have you?
First let the poor thing have something to eat.
It wouldn't really do you any harm to skip a meal.
Ettore...
What is it?
Nothing, nothing at all. I was just looking for Sandro.
And you expect to find him in here? Go and ask Claudia.
Yes, yes, of course.
And what are we going to do now?
We'll try again.
Up until now those smugglers were operating only around the Palermo area. This will be a nice surprise for the Lieutenant in Milazzo... Call up headquarters. Bring them up to date and have them give you instructions on what to do with this crate.
So... the boat we saw yesterday afternoon might have also been that of these smugglers. Could it be possible, then, that Anna...?
I wonder where they could have unloaded the stuff ... Maybe right here at Lisca.
I was saying... it might even be possible that Anna had left with them.
But for what reason would she have wanted to go away?
Listen, Marshal... As for there being reasons for going away, anyone of us might have three thousand of them. So you can assume that she had them. What I want to know, is it possible that the smugglers might have taken her aboard?
I think it's possible.
I'm going ashore to take a look around the island. There are some ruins up there...
There too...
Well, we're still in Italy, you know!
It's really a fact  there's nothing new under the sun. Now, look here. Look at this structure... a kind of natural shelter. Sandro, that's how you should design your houses.
Me?... I no longer have any interest in building... And, then, where can you find boulders of rock like this in Milan?
Let's try to be practical about this. The best thing to do is for all of you to go to the closest island that has a police station, or something, and report the disappearance. I'll remain here... because... well, I don't know, but it seems to me that something may turn up. Anyway, I just don't feel like leaving.
Then let's get started... It's senseless to waste any more time.
Claudia, I know how you feel, but there are already two of us staying...
I'll go even further and say that her presence here  I don't want to sound offensive  could be a great hindrance.
It's as smooth and slick as oil.
I detest comparisons made with oil.
At one time the Aeolian isles were all volcanoes.
You must know your third grade geography book inside out.
What happened?
There's a shark in the area. Don't move from where you are!
Who's moving?
Why didn't you ask me to go with you?
Do you know why? Because if you saw those ruins I'm sure you would have said they were very, very beautiful. You always say "how beautiful" to everything  whether it's the sea, or a baby, or a cat! You have such a sensitive little heart that it throbs for anything.
But Corrado... If something is beautiful why shouldn't one say so?
He never misses a chance to humiliate me, to let me know that he doesn't care about me any more.
Giulia, that remark is not worthy of our twelve years of honest concubinage. I repeat, once and for all, and publicly, that I admire you. Does that please you?
Looks like the weather is changing.
Please, Giulia; must you always emphasize the obvious? I can see for myself that the weather is changing.
I'll stay here also.
But why?... What if it starts to rain?
If it rains, I'll buy myself an umbrella.
How did you spend the night?... In that hut?... And what did you have to eat?
What do you think?
We, too, you know. It was disastrous. First at Panarea, where there weren't any boats... then at Lipari, where everybody was asleep... And the phone call to Rome...
Corrado, why don't you ask them to give it to us as a gift?
Really! So that you can stuff it with your geraniums.
But how can you carry on a discussion in this heat?
When one approaches fifty, my dear, he is affected only by the cold.
Who are you talking to?
To the shark.
Please, you come too...
But for what reason should I come there?
Please, do come... Don't leave me alone with him. He's capable of... I don't know... Have you noticed his eyes?
They're all nudes, if I'm not mistaken.
But why all nudes?
And tell Corrado, too, that I'm here... if he wants me. You can also tell him that my tiny little heart is beating like mad, and that at this moment, it's the only thing that interests me. Is that clear?
It couldn't be any clearer.
Now what do I have to do to be left in peace?
I think all you have to do, Giulia, is to close the door.
Well, with a shark running loose around the place, I for one won't get aboard that raft! They'll have to catch it first. I want to see it right here before my feet, dead or alive.
Better dead.
Tell me, Claudia, what do you think of Raimondo?
I would say he's pretty depraved.
Oh no; quite the contrary. He's really just a child.
He amuses me. I don't know of anything more amusing. Outside of this jigsaw puzzle. Don't you find it so, Claudia?
One would have to be in love with somebody to know that.
Have you ever been in love?
Not really... It's suffocating in here... Shall we go out?
What amazes me, is Sandro. He seems so calm.
Calm?... He doesn't seem so to me... He was awake all night.
I'm going with the patrol boat to make a tour around the islands.
To do what?
I just can't leave without first searching those islands, one by one.
But aren't you tired? I can just about manage to stand on my feet! Raimondo!
But where did you finally end up?
It was futile. We went all over.
It's divine!
You say that just to flatter me.
Do you consider that a compliment?
No.
I'm not coming.
But then why did you bother changing?
Shouldn't we try to find a quieter place?
Quieter? Oh, yes, of course.
How do you manage to put up with all this confusion? You always said people bore you.
You shouldn't always take me seriously. Actually, I'm used to it by now. First my mother and now my husband; both of them are like dynamos.
My childhood, instead, was a very sensible one.
What do you mean by sensible?
It means being without money.
Patrizia... Patrizia ... Where's Ettore?
I imagine he must be inside sleeping.
Would you please see if Sandro is with him? He's not in his room. I'm sorry to disturb you.
Patrizia, I'm afraid.
More or less, we are all afraid. Especially at night.
I'm afraid that Anna has come back. I feel she's back, and that they're together.
But what's gotten into you?... We would have known. Sandro must be out in the garden somewhere, taking a breath of fresh air, or watching the break of dawn. It would be a lovely surprise indeed if he turned out to be the sentimental type.
Now, listen. For God's sake, try not to let yourself become obsessed with that idea. Go to your room and get back into bed.
Just several days ago, the thought of Anna being dead would have made me sick. And now, I don't even cry, I'm afraid she might be alive. Everything is becoming so damned simple and easy, even to deprive one's self of pain and suffering.
You should never wish to get melodramatic over anything.
Yes, you're right. I'm sick and tired of being like that.
I have a feeling that you're not used to being alone.
That seems to apply to you also...
Don't be so humble.
How should I be ... arrogant?
But of course... arrogant, haughty... Hasn't Anna ever told you?
There's nothing much to laugh at.
And that's what I say, too. We could have all been killed.
Shall we go for a swim?
Oh, no... please... not here. It looks too dangerous.
Twelve years ... But why haven't they married?
And why haven't they left each other?
I'm beginning to have my doubts. It couldn't be that they're in love?
Could be. They're the kind of people who are capable of anything.
Find anything?
No.
As far as I'm concerned, I think she's alive... Why, even this morning... that business about the shark... it wasn't at all true.
And why do you tell us this only now?
I... I don't know... I didn't think it was worthwhile... She was laughing over it...
Nothing but the usual argument... The only thing was  if I remember correctly  that she said she had a need to be alone.
And how do you explain that?
Nothing... nothing at all!
But why don't you tell him? A girl who was with us has disappeared.
And I suppose it's my fault... Why don't you tell him that too. That's what you believe, isn't it?
Rather than being so occupied with my thoughts, you would have been better off trying to understand what Anna was thinking.
Are you feeling better?
I'm sorry about last night. Please forgive me.
You're very fond of Anna, aren't you?
Yes, very much so.
Has she ever spoken to you about me?
Occasionally, but always with affection.
And yet, she seemed to feel that our love for her  mine, yours, even her father's, in a certain sense  weren't enough for her, or didn't mean much to her.
I know. I keep asking myself what I could have done to prevent all this from happening.
I think that you might go and have a look yourself.
Yes, maybe that is better.
Where are you going?... To Montaldo's?
Yes.
Then I'll go with you.
Have you read it?... They're asking for anyone with information to get in touch with them.
Yes. I had also thought of going there to talk with them...
Yes, you should go.
But then when will we see each other?
Sandro, I don't want you to come with me, I don't want to see you... How can I make it clear to you?...Why did you come?
I don't know why. I just couldn't help it.
But sooner or later we've got to end this relationship. And it's better to do it right now.
I have no desire to sacrifice myself... It's idiotic to sacrifice oneself... Why?... For whom? If Anna were here I might understand your scruples. But she's not...
Oh, Sandro...
I'm sorry. I didn't want to sound cynical. But isn't it better to look things squarely in the eye?
For me they are exactly as they were when we met three days ago  just three days ago... don't you realize? And you and Anna... No, I guess they aren't like that any more. My God, is it possible to forget in such a short time, for things to change so quickly?
It takes even less.
But it's so sad. So terribly sad. I'm not used to it, I'm not ready for it... You know... I have never been so upset in my life. Sandro, why don't you help me?
I think the only way to help ourselves, Claudia, is for us to be together.
No, I'm sure it won't. Move over there. Let's make believe nothing happened. And when we get to the next station, get off.
And what about you?
Me... I... I... Please leave me alone.
Claudia, listen to me...
No, Sandro, please... I ask you as a favor...
Promise that you won't try to look for me... you shouldn't try to look for me any more...
But why, Claudia?... Why?
Any news?
Yes... but it's all so conflicting... However, there is some slight indication...
Let's get out of here, fast... This is not a town, it's a cemetery.
Who knows why they all left...
Sandro ... maybe it's best that you go in alone.
Are you joking?
Don't think that I want to save myself from any embarrassment, from the awkwardness of meeting Anna... It's not that; it's that you can say certain things easier if you're alone. Please, Sandro, do try to understand me... It would look like I was trying to influence you, to force you, to control you... and that makes me feel uncomfortable...
What is it, Claudia?
Oh, Sandro... I'm so ashamed of myself, so ashamed...I tried to hide myself...I feel so small... I hate myself ...
Does it please you to say such things?
Oh no... It doesn't please me at all...
Then why do you say them?
Because what I'm doing is so ugly ... Because if you told me right now: "Claudia, I love you," I would believe you...
Good. It's better if it were absurd. That would mean nothing much can be done about it.
But just think  the very same things you had said to her who knows how many times... maybe even just before we left, while I was waiting outside your place...
So, even if I did say them, I was sincere with her, as I am now with you.
Really, I've got to stop this business with Ettore... I would like to go back and start working on my own projects again. You know, I had many ideas...
And why did you drop them?
Once they gave me a job to draw up an estimate for the construction of a school. It took me only a day and a half to finish it, and I got paid six million lire. Ever since then I've been doing estimates for other people's designs.
Why are you looking at me like that?
I'm sure you'd be able to design some very lovely things.
I don't know about that. And then, who's interested in beautiful things nowadays?
Claudia, let's get married?
What! Get married?
Yes. We'll get married. You and I. What do you say?
What do I say? What can I say? No. At least, not yet. I don't know... I can't even think of it... at a time like this... Oh, but why did you have to ask me?
You look at me as though I had said something foolish...
And are you sure you want to marry me? Are you really sure...that you want to marry... me?
That's why I asked you...
So... Oh, how I wish that everything were so much simpler... that people could just come together by the color of their hair or the size of their shoes. What size shoe do you wear? Size 9. That's a very lovely size. But I'm sorry, I wear size 8.
But why am I so infatuated with you?
Hurry up now, or it'll begin to get hot outside...
Yes, yes, yes, yes... Right away...
And you leave me here all alone... in this hotel room...
As soon as you're ready, you can come down and catch up with me. I'll be waiting for you right outside on the square.
But you know it already. Why must I tell you?
So, you wonder why?
Then I'll see you later.
Okay. In a few minutes.
Sandro ...What's the matter?
Nothing.
No, Sandro... Please...
Why?
No reason why...
Sandro, wait a moment, just one moment... You seem like an entirely different person ...
And aren't you pleased?... That way you'll have a new kind of adventure.
What are you saying?
I was only joking, really... Can't I make a joke? And now you've got to tell me why you don't want to.
Oh, Sandro... I want everything you do. But...
Did the hotel manager speak to you about that place nearby?
Yes, she started to but I didn't feel like staying to listen to what she had to say. If we had to listen to everybody...
No, Sandro... We should go. Besides, we haven't been in touch with anybody. Not even with Anna's father. We should have at least sent a wire or telephoned... let's be fair, he must be feeling awfully lonely.
I don't doubt it. But at a time like this we're the least suitable persons to be with him. And as far as telephoning him... Who knows where he is?
Sandro, listen... Try not to get yourself too involved tomorrow.
Aren't you going to change?
You said you wanted to quit working for Ettore.
Sandro, I'm not coming down.
Why?
I'm too sleepy.
Sleep is something one must learn to overcome. I learned how to do it when I was a child. I never slept. And I had friends who even slept less than I did. The one who went to bed first, paid a penalty. And we really didn't do anything. After seeing a movie, we'd go to a cafe and discuss things for a while... then we'd sit down on a bench somewhere... listen to some drunkard... watch them putting up posters or manifestoes...or look at the sheep passing by... or go for a stroll around the market place... Or else we'd go and wake up some girl in the neighborhood by standing in front of her window and calling out her name...
You're that sleepy, eh? What time do expect to get up tomorrow?
Late, very late.
Good night, my love.
Good night. Tell me that you love me.
I love you.
Tell me once more.
I don't love you.
I deserve it.
What is that one over there called?
That must be Basiluzzo.
Sounds like the name of a fish  merluzzo, basiluzzo...
Say, Claudia, wouldn't you like to climb up with me and take a look over there?
At what?
At the ruins. They're very ancient, you know.
Well?
Well, what?
Have you decided?
All I said was that it sounds like a good idea.
How wonderful!
That's Patrizia's way of letting us know she's with us.
I think you're very sweet, Corrado.
More so than the shark?
There's no comparison.
Then why don't we go up and see the ruins?
Somebody must live here!
But Anna wouldn't be staying with the kind of people who live here.
Really! Still, it remains to be seen why she invented a shark. What was her purpose in that?
Maybe you'd better ask him.
What were you and Anna arguing about?... Excuse me for being so indiscreet, but this is serious...
It's already two hours... What are we going to do?
It takes about twenty to twentytwo hours for the current to reach here from Lisca Bianca.
These people are contemptible. They have no sense of dignity at all.
And you say that came from Lisca Bianca?
It couldn't have come from anywhere else. At least, somewhere from that vicinity... But I really can't understand it. Contraband cigarettes on that island! It's the first time that ever happened.
Look... I'd like to get back to Lisca Bianca.
But how could we...at a time like this when we just... well, let's at least first have a look around the other islands. Could be that something might turn up there.
But even here we were supposed to find who knows what... And all we bring back with us is a crate of cigarettes.
As you wish.
I presume by this method that you'll be able to uncover some new clue, either a handkerchief or an article of clothing... In other words, something which your men have not been able to find as yet.
Without any doubt, sir. If anything belonging to the girl who has run away is still here on this island...
Allow me to inform you that my daughter is not a fugitive.
I'm sorry, sir. I didn't mean to put it that way. But, you must understand, sir, that I...
I understand very well. Only I don't want any rash assumptions to be made.
This looks to me like a good sign. Don't you think so? As far as I'm concerned, anyone who reads the Bible could not have committed an act of impropriety. Why... as a matter of fact, I remember when I was in China, many years ago, I happened to be involved in a similar situation, concerning an English woman, the wife of Ambassador Shafford, a good friend of mine. There, too, we found a Bible... And I said at the time that whatever had happened, that clue alone had definitely ruled out the possibility of... suicide. Why, it was logical, I said, that whoever reads the Bible believes in God and therefore... No? You don't believe it? Well, as a matter of fact, I was right... The woman was found two days later. It was a case of amnesia.
Sir, if you have no objections, may we start the search?
Isn't it fashionable any more to put on a sailor's cap with the name of the yacht?
No, Dad, it isn't.
And how long will you be away?
Four or five days.
Oh, very well. I'll just spend the weekend alone by myself and take a little rest. I should be used to it by now.
Used to what?
To the fact of my retirement, not only as a diplomat but also as a father.
But how could you say such a thing?
Because it's true. After thirty years  not having ever spoken the truth to anyone, I should at least allow myself to do so with my own daughter.
And have you any other truths to tell me?
You already know what they are.
You mean Sandro, don't you? Well, I beg of you, please, spare me that. Goodbye, Dad.
Up until now, Dad, I've been the one who hasn't wanted to marry him.
It's the same thing. Goodbye, dear.
But where are you going?
I'm thirsty.
If I had a man waiting for me for half an hour and whom I hadn't seen for a month ...
You know, I could just as well go without seeing him today.
What! After giving us such a run around...
Did you sleep well?
Yes, fairly well. But I went to bed last night planning to do some thinking about a number of things ... instead, I fell asleep.
I didn't know one could sleep so well on a yacht. It lulls you ...
Which one shall I wear?
This one is gorgeous.
Then why don't you try it on?
Claudia, aren't you coming?
I'm certainly not going to swim across.
We'll send the raft back to you.
But your friend is waiting downstairs.
She'll wait.
When do you have to go back?
I don't know... It depends on Ettore... He's now in the process of negotiating for a contract here in Sicily...
Then how come you're not with him?
What a question... Because I want to be with you, naturally. I hope he doesn't close the deal so he'll leave me alone at least for a few days... Isn't this water wonderful!
I'd like to find a place where I can get some peace and rest, maybe around here somewhere. I'd like to try...
What could be more restful than this?... Excuse me, what is it that you want to try?
How are you?
Fine. Can't you see so yourself?
Anna... Maybe it would be better to wait a while.
Wait for what?
Sandro... A month is too long a time. I have become used to being without you.
You'll get over it soon. It's the usual anxiety.
A little more so this time.
So, it will just take you a little longer to get over it.
But I think we should talk about it. Or are you fully convinced that we too won't understand each other?
There will be plenty of time to talk about it later. We'll get married soon. That way we'll have more time...
In this case, getting married means nothing. Aren't we already the same as being married? And Corrado and Giulia  aren't they already the same as being married?
But why rattle your brains by arguing and talking... Believe me, Anna, words never help at all. They only serve to confuse. I love you, Anna. Isn't I that enough?
No. It's not enough... I told you before that I would like to get away for a while and be alone.
But you just said that a month was too...
I mean, to stay away longer  two months... a year... three years... Yes, I know, it sounds absurd. And I feel awful. The very idea of losing you makes me want to die... And yet... I... I just don't have the same feeling for you any more.
And what about yesterday... at my house... didn't you have any feeling for me, even then?
There you go... Must you always spoil everything!
HighPressure Nervous Syndrome. Muscle tremors, usually in the hands first. Nausea, increased excitability, disorientation.
Very good. About one person in twenty just can't handle it. They go buggo. They're no way to predict who's susceptible, so stay alert.
4800 feet. It's official.
Bud, according to Monk here, you just set a record for the deepest suit dive. Bet you didn't think you'd be doing this when you got up this morning.
8500 feet, Bud. Everything okay?
Ask him a pressure effects. Tremors, vision problems, euphoria.
Ensign Monk want to know how you feel.
He's losing it. Talk to him. Keep him with us.
Bud, it's the pressure. Try to concentrate. Concentrate on my voice. Just listen to my voice.
He can still make it.
I know how alone you feel... alone in all that cold blackness... but I'm there in the dark with you, Bud you're not alone...
What kind of light?
He's hallucinating badly.
Would we see the flash?
Through three miles of water? I don't know.
Fluid breathing system. We just got them. We use it if we need to go really deep.
How deep?
Deep. It's classified... you know. Anyway, you breathe liquid, so you can't be compressed. Pressure doesn't get to you.
Hey!
Check this out.
Stand by on the ROV.
Perry, stand by on the ROV. Sorry about this, little buddy. Better you than me, know what I mean?
Getting a reading?
It's twitching but it's below the line you said was safe.
You boss is having a fullon meltdown. Guy's fixing to pull the pin on fifty kilotons and we're all ringside!
What's the timer set for?
Deepcore, Deepcore... this is Cab Three on final approach.
Gotcha, Cab Three. Who is that? That You, Lindsey?
Cab Three, check. Right behind you.
What's you depth, Cab Three?
1840... 50... 60... 70...
Going over the wall. Coming to bearing 065. Everybody stay tight and in sight.
Figured that out for yourself, did you?
We got Russian subs creeping around. Shit! Something goes wrong they could say anything happened down here, man. Give our folks medals, know what I mean?
A nonterrestrial intelligence.
NonTerrestrial Intelligence. NTIs. Yeah, I like that better then UFOs. Although that works too... Underwater Flying Objects.
Look, you can just punch into his little chip where you want him to go, and he goes, right?
Well, yeah, but the tether off it ain't gonna be fancy. When he gets down there he'll just sit, like a dumbshit. Unless something wanders through view of the camera, you'll get nada.
Let's go for it. We could get lucky.
No. Just you and me. We get some proof, then tell them. Hippy, look... if was can prove to Coffey it's not Russians, maybe he'll ease off the button a little.
I gotta tell you, that guy scares me a lot more than whatever's down there. A.J. Squared Away goddamn jarhead robot. Okay, gimme a couple hours on this.
Schoenick... your Lieutenant is about to make a real bad career move...
That guy's crazier'n a shithouse rat!
He can't get to the door... I think he's going to try and take him himself.
He couldn't be that dumb. The guy's a trained killer. Bud's idea of a fight is armwrestling One Night over laundry duty.
12000 feet. Jesus, I don't believe he's doing this.
Shut up, Hippy. Bud, how you doing?
Uh, oh...
What kind of luminous things, Bud?
Lady, we better fish or cut bait.
Just hold your water, okay? So Kirkhill, we gonna do this or we gonna talk about it?
Get comfortable. The bad news is we got six hours in this can, blowing down. The worse news is it's gonna take us three weeks to decompress back to the surface later.
We've been fully briefed, Mrs. Brigman.
Don't call me that, okay... I hate that. Alright, from now on we watch each other closely for signs of HPNS...
Look, we've all made chamber runs to this depth. We're checked out.
Oh... chamber runs. Uh huh, that's good. Well, hey... you guys know any songs?
Cab One, do you see it yet?
The magnetometer is pegged. Sidescan is showing a big return, but I don't see anything yet. Are you sure you got the depth right on this?
Cab One, radiation readings?
Neutron counter's not showing very much.
Wilhite, anything?
Copy that, continuing forward. You just want me to get shots of everything, right?
Roger, document as much as you can, but keep moving. We're on a tight timeline.
Copy that.
Radiation is nominal. The warheads must still be intact.
How many are there?
24 Trident missiles. Eight MIRVs per missile.
That's 192 warheads... And how powerful are they?
I want 'roundtheclock manning of the sonar shack and the exterior cameras. We need early warning if the Soviet craft try another incursion.
Gimme a break! Coffey, these things live three and a half miles down on the bottom of an abyssal trench! Trust me... they're not speaking Russian.
You've got some huevos bringing this... thing... into my rig! With everything that's been going on up in the world, you bring a nuclear weapon in here? Does this strike anyone as particularly psychotic, or is it just me?
You don't need to know the details of this mission... you're better off if you don't.
You're right... I don't. I just need to know that this thing is out of here! You hear me, Roger Ramjet?
Mrs. Brigman, you're becoming a serious impediment to this mission. I believe the stress is affecting you. Escort her to quarters and have Monk prepare a tranquilizer.
Those guys ain't so tough. I fought plenty of guys tougher'n them.
Now we get to hear about how he used to be a contender.
Hippy, you pussy.
What good's the money if your dick drops off in six months?
Quiet! Quiet!
Turn it up, bozo.
Are we talkin' little space friend here?
Right on! Hot rods of the Gods. Right, Lins? Hey, no really! It could be NTIs. The CIA has known about them for years. They abduct people all the time. There was this woman I knew in Albuquerque who
That thing was probably their version of Big Geek... like an ROV.
Just checking is out, huh? How come?
SHIT!
Give me that!!
Howdy, y'all. Hey, Lindsey! I'll be damned! You shouldn't be down here sweet thing, ya'll might run ya stockings.
Couldn't stay away. You running mixture for us? Good. Couldn't ask for better.
Okay, here we go. Start equalizing, y'all.
Cat, you tie onto this manifold. There's some tanks on the other side; I'm gonna go check them out.
You watch yourself.
You better not say you missed that.
Missed what?
Y'all could be more specific.
Not us. Not human. Get it? Something non human, but intelligent...
I think they're from 'you know'. Some place that has similar conditions... cold, intense pressure. No light.
Happy as hogs in a waller down there, prob'ly.
We should be dead. We didn't decompress.
Out blood oughta be fizzin' like a warm, shook up Coke.
Hey, you guys are milking that job.
That's cause we love freezin' our butts off out here sooo much, boss.
Triple time sounds like a lotta money, Bud. It ain't. I'm sorry...
We're here now. Let's get her done.
He's convulsing!
It's his mixture! Too much oxygen!
'Fish'?
Yuh?
Take the first watch in sonar. Hippy, you handle the exterior surveillance. One Night, see if you can get that transmitter working for me, okay?
Hafta... go on to... the moonpool. Only way.
I can't... make it... podner.
Virgil?
God, I hate that bitch.
Yeah, well you never should have married her then.
Just get around so your lights are on the hatch.
Check. Then I just hang with these guys, right?
What's the matter with you?
Now we're right in the middle of this bigtime international incident. Like the Cuban Missile Crisis or something.
No, I mean it. Those SEALs aren't telling us diddly. Something's going on.
Hippy, you think everything's a conspiracy.
Everything is.
That's Perry.
That's it then. Finler, McWhirter, Dietz, and Perry. Jesus.
Do we just leave him there?
Yeah, for now. Our first priority's to get something to breathe.
Come on, man. What else could it be?
Why bring it here?
It's gotta be, like, an emergency plan to keep it away from the Russians... Hotwire one of the nukes with some kinda detonator, put it back in the sub, and fry the whole thing, slicker'n snot. Oh, uh... hi, Lins.
Lins, stay away from that guy. I mean it.
Yeah. The dude's in bad shape... you see his hands?
Go to the infirmary... get the cart .. oxygen... defib kit... adrenaline in a... ten cc syringe... and some... heating blankets. You got all that?
Got it. Over.
Meet me in the moonpool. Move fast.
Is that it? Is this right?
Yeah! I mean, I don't know... it looks right.
All right. Do it!
We'll take reading as we go. If the reactor's breached or the warheads have released radioactive debris, we'll back away. Simple.
Okay... Hippy's not going... McWhirter, you can run Little Geek.
Look, it's three AM. These guys are running on bad coffee and four hours sleep. You better start cutting them some slack.
I can't afford slack, Brigman.
Hey, you come on my rig, you don't talk to me, you start ordering my guys around. It won't work. You gotta know how to handle these people... we have a certain way of doing things here.
I'm not interested in your way of doing things. Just get your team ready to dive.
We'll go in through that large breach.
Let's go, guys.
Coffey, we're a little pressed for time.
Monk, Schoenick... secure the package.
Did you find Wilhite?
No.
I can't believe you let them do this!
Hi, Lins. I thought you were in Houston.
I was, but I managed to bum a ride on the last flight out here. Only here isn't where I left it, is it, Bud?
Wasn't up to me.
We were that close to proving a submersible drilling platform could work. We had over seven thousand feet of hole down for Chrissake. I can't believe you let them grab my rig!
Your rig?
My rig. I designed the damn thing.
Yup, a Benthic Petroleum paid for it. So as long as they're hold the pink slip, I go where they tell me.
You wimp. I had a lot riding on this. They bought you... more like least rented you cheap
I'm switching off now.
Virgil, you wiener! You never could stand up to fight. You
Well, well. Mrs. Brigman.
Not for long.
You never did like being called that, did you?
Not even when it meant something. Is that One Night up in Flatbed?
Who else?
I can't believe you were dumb enough to come down. Now you're stuck here for the storm... dumb, hotrod... dumb.
Look, I didn't come down here to fight.
You need me. Nobody knows the systems on this rig better than I do. What is something was to go wrong after the Explorer clears off? What would have you done?
Wow, you're right! Us poor dumb ol' boys might've had to think for ourselves. Coulda been a disaster.
You wanna know what I think?
Not particularly. Jeez, look where this is set! Morons.
I think you were worried about me.
That must be it.
No, I think you were. Come on, admit it.
I was worried about the rig. I've got over four years invested in this project.
Oh, yeah, right... and you only had three years with me.
What are you still wearing that for?
I don't know. Divorce ain't final. Forgot to take it off.
I haven't worn mine in months.
Yeah, what'shisname wouldn't like it. The Suit.
Do you always have to call him that? The Suit? It makes you sound like such a hick. His name is Michael.
So what about "Michael" then... Mr. Brooks Brothers... Mr. BMW. You still seeing him?
No, I haven't seen him in a few weeks.
What happened?
Bud, why are you doing this? It's not part of you life any more.
I'll tell you what happened... you woke up one day and realized the guy never made you laugh.
You're right, Bud. It was just that simple. Aren't you clever? You should get your own show... Ask Dr. Bud, advice to the lovelorn from three hundred fathoms.
Did you get anything on the cameras. Video or anything?
No. Look, forget it. I don't want to talk about it.
Fine. Be that way.
I don't know what I saw. Okay? Coffey wants to call it a Russian submersible, fine. It's a Russian submersible. No problem.
But you think it's something else. What? One of ours?
No.
Whose then? Lindsey? Talk to me...
Jammer saw something in there, something that scared the hell out him
His mixture got screwed up. He panicked and pranged his regulator.
But what did he see that made him panic?
What do you think he saw?
I don't know. I DON'T KNOW!
Hippy, just relax. You're making the women nervous.
Cute, Virgil.
What's the scoop, ace?
I can get power to this module and subbay if I remote these busses. I've gotta get past the mains, which are a total meltdown.
Need some help?
Thanks. No, I can handle it. Bud... there won't be enough to run the heaters. In a couple hours this place is going to be as cold as a meat locker.
What about O2?
Brace yourself. We've got about 12 hours worth if we close off the sections we're not using.
The storm's gonna last longer than 12 hours.
I can extend that. There's some storage tanks outboard on the wrecked module. I'll have to go outside to tie onto them.
Hey, Lins... I'm glad your here.
Yeah? Well I'm not.
Come on, you guys... look, this is the little one right here. You can see how it's kind of zigging around.
If you say so. It could be anything.
I'm telling you what is there. You're just not hearing. The impulses somehow aren't getting from you ears to your brainpan. There's something down there. Something not... us.
Jesus, Lindsey
Bud, something really important is happening here.
Look. I'm just trying to hold this situation together. I can't allow you to cause this kind of hysteria
Who's hysterical? Nobody's hysterical!
All I'm saying is when you're hanging on by your fingernails, you don't go waving you arms around.
I saw something! I'm not going to go back there and say I didn't see it when I did. I'm sorry.
God, you are the most stubborn woman I ever knew.
I need you to believe me, Bud. Look at me. Do I seem stressed out? Any of the symptoms of pressure sickness, any tremors, slurred speech?
No.
Bud, this is me, Lindsey. Okay? You know me better than anybody in the world. Now watch my lips... I saw these things. I touched one of them. And it wasn't some clunky steel can like we would build... it glided. It was the most beautiful thing I've ever seen.
It was a machine, but it seems almost alive. Like a... dance of light. Bud, you have to trust me... please. I don't think they mean us harm. I don't know how I know that, it's just a feeling.
How can I go on a feeling? You think Coffey's going to go on you 'feeling'?
We all see what we want to see... Coffey looks and he sees Russians, he sees hate and fear. Bud, you have to look with better eyes than that.
Look, goddamnit, if you won't do something about it, I will.
Lindsey! Wait a second
You dumb jarhead motherf
Chill out, Lindsey!!
He's got the shakes?
Look, the guy's operating on his own, cut off from chain of command. He's exhibiting symptoms of pressureinduced psychosis. And he's got a nuclear weapon. So, as a personal favor to me... will you put your tongue in neutral for a while?
I think it likes you.
It's trying to communicate.
They must've learned how to control water... I mean at a molecular level. They can plasticize it, polymerize it... whatever. Put it under intelligent control.
Maybe their whole technology is based on that. Controlling water.
He's jammed the mechanism.
Now what?
Okay, I'm gonna freeswim to hatch six... get inside, get the door open from the other side.
Bud, that water's only a couple degrees above freezing.
Then I guess you better wish me luck, huh?
You owe me one, Virgil.
Can we negotiate later? There's Big Geek.
You did okay, back there. I was fairly impressed.
Not good enough. We still gotta catch Big Geek.
Not in this thing.
You totaled it, huh?
Yeah. So sue me.
It's flooding like a son of the bitch.
You noticed.
Try again.
Deepcore, this is Cab One. We need assistance, over. Deepcore, this
Well, that's that.
Wonderful. There's some light from somewhere...
Good hundred yards, I'd say.
They'll come out after us.
Yeah, but it's gonna take them a while to find us. We better get this flooding stopped.
You see where it's coming in?
Somewhere behind this panel. Hold this.
Can't get to it. Have to pull this panel off. You go any tools?
I don't know, look around.
Son of a bitch!
Calm down, Bud.
Okay... okay. We gotta get you out of here.
How?
I don't know how!
We've only got one suit.
I know! I know! But we better come up with something.
Aaargh!! I'm freezing!
Okay, look, you swim to the rig and come back with another suit.
Seven, eight minute swim each way... not enough time. Look at this... Time I get back you'll be
Alright, put this on.
What, you growing gills all of a sudden? You got it on, keep it on.
Don't argue, goddamnit, just
No way! Forget it. Not an option.
Lindsey, just put the thing on and shut up
NO!! Now be logical, Bud, you're
FUCK LOGIC!!
Listen... will you listen to me for a second!? You're for the suit on and you're a better swimmer than me. Right? So I got a plan...
What's the plan?
I drown, you tow me back to the rig
WHAT KIND OF PLAN IS THAT!??
It is insane.
It's the only way, Bud. Now trust me.
Oh God, Lins... I
Tell me later.
Hey... big boys don't cry, remember?
Hi, lady.
Hi, tough guy. I guess it worked, huh?
'Course is worked. You're never wrong, are you? How d'you feel.
I've been better. Next time it's your turn, okay?
No, Bud, no... not you.
Who then?
Hello, Brigman.
Hello, Mrs. Brigman.
Bud! Hippy's on the bitchbox. It's a call from topside. That new company man.
Kirkhill? That guy doesn't know his butt from a rathole. Hey, Perry!
What's goin' on, Boss?
Folks, I've just been told to shut down the hole and prepare to move the rig.
Okay so far.
How deep's the dropoff here?
Where are we?
Missile compartment. Those are the launch tubes.
Lord Almighty.
Hey, you okay?
Deep and slow, big guy. Deep and slow. Just breathe easy.
I... they're all dead, Bud. They're all dead. I thought... some of them... you know...
I'm taking you back out.
No! I'm okay now. I just don't... I can't go any further in.
Okay, Jammer. No problem. You stay right here. I have to go there to the end... you'll see my lights. We'll stay in voice contact. Just hold onto the rope. Five more minutes. Okay?
Yeah, okay. Okay.
Thanks. How you feeling, big guy?
Figured I was dead, there, when I seen that angel comin' toward me.
Shehit.
We're being asked to cooperate in a matter of national security. Now you know exactly as much as I do. So just get your gear off and get up to control. There's some kind of briefing in ten minutes.
How you guys doing?
I'm alright, I'm dealing.
You got it?! You got it?
Yeah, yeah... yeah. It's turning.
Benthic Explorer, Benthic Explorer. Do you read, over? This is Deepcore
Forget it, Sonny. They're gone.
Nice shot, Lins.
What is that? You drop your dive light?
Goddamnit! D'you tell him we need it right now?
I told him we had to get the umbilical unhooked ASAP.
This ain't no drill, slick. Make me proud.
Piece of cake, baby.
Right through the brainpan. Deader'n dogshit, boss.
Where're you?
Gimme a threeeighths socket on a long extension. So there you were
There we were, side by side, on the same ship, for two months. I'm toolpusher and we're testing this automated derrick of hers. So, we get back on the beach and... we're living together.
Doesn't mean you had to marry her.
We were due to go back out on the same ship. Six months of tests. If you were married you got a stateroom. Otherwise it was bunks.
Okay, good reason. Then what?
It was alright for a while, you know. But then she got promoted to project engineer on this thing, couple years ago.
She went frontoffice on you. Tighten that for me, right there. That's it.
Well, you know Lindsey, too damn aggressive Son of a!!
You done impressing yourself, ace?
No way that could just be seawater.
What?
Are you okay?
Yeah, I'm fucking fantastic.
Want a ride?
I'm all right.
It's fucking freezing out here.
There's something wrong with this picture.
What picture?
I'm talking about you.
Me?
Yeah, you.
Here's this nice, hard working guy who suddenly appears out of the blue and rides the bus to and from work. I mean, who rides the bus anymore?
People without cars.
Very weird.
No weirder than a sharp, young, good looking woman working in a lumberyard.
What's weird about that?
Most women wouldn't choose it.
Guess I'm not like most women.
You're quiet at work.
I'm just quiet.
You don't hang out with the other guys.
Neither do you.
They're all assholes.
You never spoke to me before.
I thought you were a dyke.
Are you?
What do you think?
Southern light.
What?
Your windows face south. Northern light is the purest. But southern light is very good.
I'll buy a plant.
You should buy several. I've got shitty light in my place, but my plants don't seem to mind. Light's important, but it's not everything.
You plan to drink both those beers?
Sorry.
Is that a school?
K through sixth.
Doesn't it get noisy?
I like the noise.
My place faces a truck street. I've got cracks in every window from the shaking.
You must hate it.
I go backpacking a lot. Lose myself in the wilderness for a week or two.
What about bears?
What about them?
They could eat you.
Yeah, they could.
I thought you were just shy, but now I think it's something else.
What?
You're damaged.
Something happened to you.
Yeah?
I'm not easily shocked.
I get that impression.
So... what's your dark secret?
Why do you want to know?
Don't you think I should know before we have sex?
So?
What?
Are you going to tell me your deep dark secret before we have sex?
So, you're not a dyke.
Not tonight.
Hey, that was... intense.
You're still here.
I didn't say I didn't enjoy it.
Of course. Sorry. I'm such a fucking asshole.
No you're not.
Don't tell me I'm not a fucking asshole when I know I'm a fucking asshole!
What's the problem?
You think I have a problem?
Do you?
It's been a while since...
Since you've had sex?
Tell me about it.
Maybe later.
How about in the morning.
The morning?
I thought I'd stay the night.
What for?
Well, Walter, this is going to sound offthewall, but I like to sleep with a man after we fuck.
Did I say something wrong?
I suffer from insomnia.
Is that all?
When I do sleep, I sweat a lot. Usually I get nightmares and wake up screaming.
I sleep like a dead horse. Anything else?
Hey, there.
Hi.
Why do you want to know?
Because I like you.
What's the worst thing you ever did?
The worst?
Yeah.
So, what did you do?
I molested little girls.
Molested little girls?
Yeah.
You're not joking.
Twelve years in prison is no joke.
Look, you can go now.
How many girls did you molest?
Sorry.
What did you do to them?
It's not what you think.
How young?
Between ten and twelve. Once a nine yearold told me she was eleven. Once a fourteenyearold told me she was twelve. I always asked how old they were.
I never hurt them. Never.
Twelve years in prison?
The judge had a thing about sex offenders. Later I heard his daughter had been raped. If I hadn't had a good lawyer, it would have been twenty five to thirty.
Why don't you just go now, okay?
I told you I'm not easily shocked.
You should be shocked. Or do you get off on this shit?
What?
Get your kicks somewhere else.
Hey, I'm not 
Depraved? My mistake.
Walter.
You don't molest little girls anymore, do you?
No. Never again.
What was prison like?
You don't really 
Yes! I want to know.
You mean the time you're locked away?
No. Prison is time. That's it. You think time, you feel time, you hear time. Your heart doesn't beat to live, it just beats... time.
I'm sorry, Walter.
Don't be sorry for me. I did those things. No one else did. I'm dealing with that.
My father took me fishing here when I was a kid. He could name every fish in the lake. And for every fish he named, he had a fishing story. I hated fishing, but I loved his stories.
Sounds like a special guy.
My father was an alcoholic who drank himself right into the grave.
I've changed.
Why young girls, Walter?
Is it their innocence? Their beauty?...
Their power. They seduce me.
They seduce you?
I was always the one seduced.
You really believe that?
No. That's what I used to tell myself.
And what do you tell yourself now?
Nothing. It's over.
Bullshit.
You know, this is crazy.
What?
Being here, with me.
I know.
Most people say the odds are against me.
What odds?
The percentages 
For men like me. They say most of us end up back... there. I'm saying there are risks... seeing me.
Well, most people are stupid. You want to talk about odds? One day I'll tell you how I survived as the youngest in a family of three sons. You wanna talk about odds?
Why not tell me now?
I got poked around... here and there.
Which brother did this?
All three  in chronological order.
You must hate your brothers.
I love my brothers.
No you don't.
I love all of them. They're strong, gentle men with families of their own. And if you asked them about what they did to me, they'd call you a fucking liar and then beat the shit out of you.
You never asked them about it?
Are you serious?
Not ever?
Not ever.
Maybe this isn't a good idea.
What?
Us seeing each other.
You're scared.
I'm not scared.
Neither am I.
Maybe you should be.
We should live together.
Live together.
Move in with me.
It's a bad idea.
I think it's a fucking good idea.
I don't even know how to live with myself.
Just think about it.
I've got problems.
Who doesn't?
Most people don't have my kind of problems.
Guess that makes you pretty special.
That's not what I meant.
I say we call it quits.
Fine.
What's this?
What's it look like?
I don't need a plant.
Everyone needs a plant. This ivy is one tough baby. It's a cutting from one of mine.
Thank you.
You're such an asshole.
Don't be scared, Walter.
I'm not scared.
Prove it.
Don't do that.
Do what?
Sneak up behind me like that.
What's your fucking problem?
Why's it always my fucking problem?
What's going on?
Nothing.
I didn't sleep well.
Do you want to talk about it?
I need a shower.
You okay?
Yeah.
Fucking liar.
I heard they were filthy birds.
Not when they fly.
And how's your job?
The job's okay.
Do I take "okay" to mean you feel good about working there?
I said the job is okay.
That's right, you did. Have you made any friends there?
I'm not running for Mr. Popularity.
You seem a little hostile today.
That was a joke.
It's called sarcasm, Dr. Rosen.
No need to call me doctor. I'm a therapist, not a psychiatrist.
It's all the same.
Walter, I'd like you to try something for me.
What?
I'd like you to keep a journal.
A diary?
That's right.
No way.
Why not?
Diaries have sent too many guys to prison.
I don't understand.
Evidence.
Oh. It never crossed my mind.
Of course.
It was just an idea.
Bad idea.
I thought a journal would encourage you to reflect.
Reflect.
That's right.
You think reflection is good.
It's very good, indeed.
How's that?
By reflection we can derive a deeper meaning from our experience in life. We gain greater understanding about ourselves that can lead to making better choices in our relationships, our careers, and our goals.
Try it.
No fucking way.
Then think about it.
How's the journal?
I'm still thinking about it.
I wish you'd give it a try.
You don't like coming here, do you?
It's okay.
But you don't like coming here. Be honest, Walter.
Honest? No.
Good. That's an honest answer. And why don't you like coming here?
Honest? Your cheery personality makes my skin itch.
Is it just my cheery personality that makes your skin itch?
Forget it.
Maybe it's the way I look. Or the sound of my name.
Rosen? I don't have a problem with that.
Because if you did, I know a therapist named Ryan. I also know a therapist named Chung.
I don't need someone else.
How do you feel about that?
I don't feel anything.
You have no feelings for your niece?
She was born after they put me away. How can I have feelings?
Then why are you talking about this?
Have to talk about something.
What are you afraid will happen?
I'm not afraid. I'm just saying that Carlos has a thing for his daughter, and if he isn't careful he's going to suffer.
Have you talked to Carlos about your concerns?
I'm not that crazy.
Do you think you're crazy?
If I'm not, then what the hell am I doing here?
Why do you think you're here?
You know why. It's part of the parole deal.
Is that what you are angry about?
Talking to you is like riding on a merrygoround.
That is a marvelous image, Walter. Because by going in circles we find the things we missed the first time around.
How long is this going to take?
We have a few more minutes.
I mean, when will I be normal.
We have a lot of work to do.
Will I ever be normal?
I couldn't say.
You couldn't say.
I'm afraid not.
Do you know what "normal" is?
I suppose it's however society defines it.
How do you define it?
I don't.
Then how do you know if your patients are getting better?
They usually tell me.
How do they know?
What is your idea of being normal?
What is your idea of being a Jew?
Whatever my ideas are of being a Jew is not going to help you. Why don't we continue this on Thursday.
I want to be normal!
Then go see a therapist who will tell you you're normal!
Fuck you, Rosen!
I know 
You don't know!
I know you're frustrated, Walter, but 
I don't know.
What did you think would happen?
I don't know.
What did you want to happen?
I don't know!
You know that if anything happens, I spend the rest of my life in prison. No parole, no nothing.
Is this the first one?
Of course it is! That's why I'm telling you!
I want you to calm down.
Walter, we'll pick up here next time.
I want to talk about it now.
We'll talk about it more on Thursday.
Remember when you asked me what my idea of "normal" was?
Go home, Walter.
Now I know. It's when I can see a girl, be near a girl, even talk to a girl... and walk away. That's my idea of being normal.
You're very late.
Sorry.
Please don't do it again.
I said I was sorry.
I can't move my patients around to accommodate one person.
When did it all start?
You mean my problem?
If by "problem" you mean your desire for prepubescent girls, yes.
I don't know.
That's not a helpful answer.
That's my answer.
Close your eyes.
What?
I'd like you to close your eyes.
Why?
To relax.
I'm relaxed.
Close your eyes and let your mind be blank.
Hey, Rosen, you going to hypnotize me?
No, I am not going to 
Okay. Eyes closed, mind a blank. I'm all yours. Do it, Rosen.
When I say the word "girl" what is the earliest image that you can remember?
Nothing. Can I open my eyes?
No. When I say the word "pretty," when I say the word "pleasure," what is the earliest memory you see?
I don't see 
In your mind, Walter. Take your time.
Who do you see?
I see my sister.
Where is she? What is she doing? How old 
Not so fast.
Sorry. Where is she?
In my bedroom, sleeping.
Where?
In my bed, Rosen. Where do you think?
Where are you?
In my bed too.
How old are you and your sister?
We're little kids.
But roughly, how old?
I'm maybe about six... which would make her four.
And what are you doing?
Just lying there. We're taking a nap.
A nap?
Yes, a nap. Kids do that. You ever take a nap, Rosen?
What the hell are you doing there?
Did you and your sister often take naps together?
I want you back in your chair! Right now!
Don't ever do that again.
All right.
I don't like nobody behind my back!
I'm sorry. I shouldn't have been there.
Walter, what did you do while taking a nap with your sister?
Nothing.
Did you touch her? Did you take off her clothes? Did you take off your clothes?
This is garbage!
I'm only asking questions.
Okay I'll tell you what I did  just to shut you up! I smelled her hair.
What else?
That's all. I just liked smelling her hair.
You felt pleasure.
Yes.
Did you get an erection?
I was six years old!
I meant later... when you two took naps.
When the two of you held each other. When you were ten or eleven and she was eight or nine. When your parents were out and the two of you were alone... completely alone in that big house.
It was a small house.
All right. A small house... with small rooms.
I smelled her hair. That's it. I just liked smelling her hair.
She's still really hurt... and angry. I don't know... if she will ever... forgive me. I understand that. I do. I just hope... I just want her to...
Accept you?
It's going to take time, Walter.
Time.
How do you feel about that?
I feel... okay.
Yeah, like the bird.
Can I ask how old you are?
I'm twelve.
No you're not.
I will be in three months. I can't wait. I hate being eleven. It has to be the stupidest age in the world.
Walter.
Do you have many friends?
No.
How come?
A long time ago, I was sent far away. When they let me come back, all my friends were gone.
It sounds like you were banished.
Banished... yeah.
Birds are my friends. That sounds egotistical, but they are. Birds know I watch them, but they don't mind because they like being watched... if they know you won't hurt them.
Robin?
Yes?
Would you like to sit on my lap?
What?
Would you like to sit on my lap?
No thank you.
Are you sure?
I'm sure. Thank you all the same.
That's okay... doesn't matter.
Do you want me to sit on your lap?
I know a place in the park where only very small birds go. There are no people or dogs or ugly crows and pigeons. It's quiet except for the song of these tiny sparrowlike birds. Would you like me to take you there?
They sound like finches.
They could be finches. I don't know. We should go before it gets dark.
My daddy lets me sit on his lap.
Does he?
Yes.
Do you like it when he asks you?
What's her name?
Ms. Kramer.
Tell Ms. Kramer what your daddy does.
I can't.
Yes you can, Robin.
You said you couldn't make the sound of a solitary vireo. But you did. Beautifully. I heard you.
What will happen if I do?
Someone will talk to your daddy. And then he'll stop doing those things... the things you don't like.
But will he... ?
Your daddy will always love you.
How do you know?
I know because... it's just something I know.
I don't want to hurt my daddy.
Robin, listen to me.
Walter?
Yes?
Do you still want me to sit on your lap?
No.
I don't mind.
You should go home.
Can't I stay a little longer?
It's getting dark. Go home.
Will I see you again?
I'd keep away from him.
What?
The new man. I'd keep away from him, if I were you.
Why's that?
You don't want to know, but he's damaged goods  real damaged goods, if you know what I mean.
Yeah, MaryKay, I think I do. Thanks a bunch for the advice.
Just trying to be helpful.
Well, Mary, you're about as helpful as a broken sewer pipe. You do know what runs out of a sewer pipe, don't you?
Have you seen Walter?
Lovers' quarrel?
People have the right to know.
If she's here tomorrow, I'll fucking kill her.
So. How are you adjusting?
I'm adjusting okay.
And your new apartment?
Apartment's okay.
Are you taking your medication?
It gives me headaches.
But you are taking it?
Yeah.
Sergeant Lucas. May I come in?
You are in.
Hiya, Walter.
Cop.
What's up?
Have a seat.
You don't know?
I have no idea.
I think you do.
Why don't you just tell me?
I haven't broken any laws.
Then you won't mind if I look around.
I would.
Got something to hide?
Doesn't everybody?
I could get a search warrant.
If you could, you would have brought one today.
Cherry?
Yeah.
Unusual design for a contemporary piece.
It's not for sale.
Who said I wanted to buy it?
And when you sit by the window, watching the girls in the little cotton skirts parade by, do you wave your wanger at the girls? Is that when you jerk off?
You can't talk to me like 
Like a piece of shit? In my eyes, you are a piece of shit. Think anyone would miss you if I threw you out the window right now? I could say you jumped when I came in. Who are they going to believe? Not you, because you'd be a dead piece of shit.
Okay?
Okay.
Too much sun.
What?
Your ivy. Too much direct sunlight. These plants don't like a lot of sun.
They grow outside, don't they?
Sure they do. But outside they've got trees around them. The trees shade them from the sun. Of course, the plants enrich the soil around the trees. One of nature's symbiotic relationships.
You going to take me on a nature walk?
Don't be witty. Yesterday you took the number twelve bus from work, but instead of getting off at your normal stop, for some reason you stayed on. Why did you stay on the bus, Walter?
I fell asleep.
You walked home.
Yes.
This one guy on death row, who I'll call Henry, told me about his last victim. Henry says how he's in the bedroom of a sevenyearold cutie named Adele. Her mother's in the living room watching TV. She's got the volume on so damn high he can hear David Letterman's jokes. Henry puts his hand over Adele's mouth and says, "If you scream, little girl, I'll kill your mother." And of course little Adele doesn't scream, doesn't cry, doesn't make a sound. Then he takes her hand and out they go through the front door. Ten days later they find Adele's body. Or what's left of it. You believe in fairy tales?
Fairy tales?
Do you believe in them?
No.
Neither do I. What's the one with the woodsman?
Woodsman?
The one with the ax?
I don't know.
Sure you do. He cuts open the wolf's stomach, and the girl steps out alive.
Little Red Riding Hood.
That's it. Little Red Riding Hood jumps out of the wolf's guts with hardly a scratch. Ever see a sevenyearold girl sodomized almost in half?
You knew her?
What?
The girl.
You don't know?
Know what?
I'll be asking the questions. Last night, you hear anything unusual? Screams? Shouts?
No.
A man was badly beaten across the street. You know anything about that?
I was asleep.
I didn't say what time the assault occurred.
You said last night. I went to bed pretty early.
The assault took place at approximately seven thirty.
I went to bed around seven.
I wasn't feeling well.
I could take you downtown.
You could. It'd be a waste of your time, though.
He I.D.'d the assailant. The description matches you pretty well.
I suppose if you're looking for a male between the ages of thirty and fifty, medium height, medium weight, medium build. Probably not too many men fit that bill.
Just give me a straight answer, Walter, cause the irony goes right over my head.
That's a nasty scratch on your neck.
I have a passionate girlfriend.
What's with the boxes?
You're a cop. Figure it out.
I'd say you're moving.
It's a free country, isn't it?
The passionate one?
Yes.
Then I'd say you're a lucky fellow.
I count my blessings.
Well, I guess I'll be seeing you.
You sure you don't know nothing about this?
'Fraid not.
What are you looking at?
Birds.
There's a million birds here.
In that birch tree is a nest.
There's little chicks! You want to see?
Sure.
They're starlings.
Is that right?
I don't like starlings.
Why not?
They're extremely aggressive birds. Plus, their habits are rather filthy.
The mother sure has her hands full.
You always carry these?
When I go birdwatching. It's why I like coming here.
It's just a city park.
You'd be surprised how many kinds of birds you'll see here. Last week I saw a purple martin. And the week before that, I saw a solitary vireo. That's rare.
A solitary vireo. I like that one.
Their sound is quite musical.
How does it sound?
It's hard to describe.
Try.
I can't.
I bet you can.
I'd love to hear it.
It's a bright sound.
Something like that.
That was terrific.
You should hear the bird.
You live around here?
Not too far. Are you a birdwatcher too?
Me? Nah. I'm more of a people watcher.
Were you watching me?
Not at first. You would stare at the tops of the trees so intently. Any second I thought you would take off and fly.
I have to go.
Do you come here often?
My daddy likes me home before dark.
It's good to listen to your daddy.
See anything interesting?
Not yet.
What are you writing in that book?
It's my bird book.
Don't you have friends?
I have friends.
A pretty girl like you should have a lot of friends.
I'm not pretty.
Well... not in the common way.
What does that mean?
It means uncommon beauty is commonly overlooked. Most people only notice birds with the brightest colors.
You tell me your name, I'll tell you mine.
Robin.
Don't need to think fast to handle beer.
Took some talking to convince your super I was a relative.
I told her all my relatives are good looking.
You look good, damn good, considering you're an old man now!
Seems like the whole world's gotten younger.
You doing okay?
Got a job at old Frank's place. His son runs it now.
Oh man, that kid takes himself real serious.
Yeah, you still with Northland?
Foreman now.
No shit.
Five years.
Beautiful. How's business?
Booming. Lots of building going on. We can't keep up with all the work. In fact, I just hired a few new guys...
I'll never forget you got me started there.
I just recommended you. You still had to prove yourself.
Hey, is that a school?
K through sixth.
Living across the street from a grade school. Jesus.
Something wrong with that?
I was just thinking of... the noise.
I like the noise.
One hundred and twenty feet.
What?
Law says I can't come within one hundred feet of where children congregate. I figure the distance from my window to the school is one hundred and twenty. Make a bet?
No way, man, you'd rob me blind!
But maybe it's not so healthy being so close, you know, to a school.
You find me a decent place for under three hundred a month in this town, and I'll happily move out of this crap neighborhood.
I should go. Your sister worries, and when she worries she yells.
How is she?
Annette? She's good... tense.
When can I see her?
I'm working on it.
Is it because of Anna?
I don't know. She won't talk about it.
You're the only one in the family who still talks to me.
I remember when they all referred to me as "the little spic poor Annette married." Except her brother. You treated me with respect. Look, you paid your dues. Your slate is clean now.
How old is Anna?
She'll be twelve next week. We're throwing a big party on Saturday. Wish I could ask you to come...
Only if it's no closer than a hundred feet.
What are you doing?
This little table is one heavy bitch.
Cherry.
Huh?
It's made from cherry. That's a hard wood.
It's a nice table.
Notice the grain. See how deep and rich the red runs?
Yeah. It's really nice.
It's my own design. You won't find another table like it in the world.
It was a beautiful present.
Then why the fuck are you giving it back to me?!
You need a table.
She was going to throw it out, wasn't she? Just toss it like a scrap of wood.
It wasn't like that.
Then what? What?!
She's got all this new furniture now. She said it didn't fit anymore, so I kept it in the attic. I thought you might like it.
I made that table for you and Annette, for your wedding. I put a lot of love into it.
I know, man. I love this table too. But I also love my wife.
What's happening?
Mariners are pounding the shit out of the Tigers.
Fucking Mariners.
Fucking Tigers. They got no pitching except for a bunch of green kids straight out of Double A or Southern Cal. How was the party?
What party?
The birthday party.
Oh, Anna's. It was great, man. Anna was so pretty. She looked like a princess, like one of those girls in a fairy tale, you know, like Snow White.
I've got some pictures. Want to see?
No thanks.
Ah, come on.
I don't want to see any goddamn pictures.
I've got some good news.
What's that?
Annette will see you.
Aren't you glad?
When?
Soon.
Next week? The week after?
Early July.
Anna will be away at camp. The house will be quiet. It's better when it's quiet.
Tell Annette I'm busy in July.
C'mon, Walter.
You should see my appointment book. It got crazy.
It's not what you think.
Isn't it?
The important thing is that you and Annette need to talk. She needs to see you, and you need to see her.
I'm not a monster.
You're a good man, Walter. Okay, you did some wrong things, but inside you're a good, decent man.
Maybe I'm not a good man. Maybe inside I'm bad, and I'll always be bad.
Don't talk like that.
I get horny as hell for other women. I mean I fantasize about raping some beautiful woman.
You don't have to tell me this.
I'm just talking, man.
Carlos, I never raped a woman.
I know. I'm just saying I understand.
It's crazy out there. Young girls wearing mini this and mini that. Sometimes when I walk down the street and pass some sexy looking woman, she makes me feel like I'm bothering her. She stares down like she's afraid to look at me. Why she do that? Why can't she look me in the face?
Maybe because you're looking her in the face.
Carlos, can I ask you something?
Sure.
Nothing.
Ask me. Ask me anything.
Did you ever... Do you have feelings for Anna?
What do you mean?
I mean... feelings.
I could swear I had a '63 Chateau Latour in here. You haven't seen it, have you?
I doubt I'd recognize a '63 Chateau Latour if I was sitting on it.
You'd recognize it if you tasted it.
I doubt it, darling.
Well, Q certainly will. And, given that he will be addressing 500 people in little over an hour...
You want to keep him happy.
If he's happy... I'm happy.
Are you riding with me, James?
No, I'm going ho 
George Sanders?
Mr. Crabtree was saying how George Sanders killed himself, only he couldn't remember how.
Pills. August 25, 1972. In a Costa Brava hotel room.
There's so many...
Just a few then. The big ones.
Pier Angeli, 1971 or '72, also pills. Charles Boyer, 1978, pills again. Charles Butterworth, 1946, I think. In a car. Supposedly it was an accident, but, you know... He was distraught. Dorothy Dandridge, she took pills in, like, 1965. Albert Dekker, 1968, he hung himself. He wrote his suicide note in lipstick on his stomach. Alan Ladd, '64, more pills, Carole Landis, pills again, I forget when. George Reeves, Superman on TV, shot himself. Jean Seberg, pills of course, 1979. Everett Sioane  he was good  pills. Margaret Sullavan, pills, Lupe Velez, a lot of pills. Gig Young. He shot himself and his wife in 1978. There are more but I don't know if you would have heard of them. Ross Alexander? Clara Blandick? Maggie McNamara? Gia Scaia?
I haven't heard of half of those.
Well, there's always people you don't know at these things, but I can't say there was anybody particularly suspicious... Wait. There was one guy. Tiny fella. Claimed to be a jockey.
A jockey? You mean, like 
Horses, right. Vernon something... Hardapple.
Hardapple?
I could be wrong. What happened anyway?
Huh? Oh, someone pulled a B&E on Dr. Gaskell's closet. And the dog's missing.
That's weird.
We figure the perpetrator let him out. He's blind and we figure he just wandered off and got run over.
The perpetrator.
No, the dog.
Just kidding.
One other thing. About this kid, this student of yours  Leer  James Leer. You wouldn't know how I could get in touch with him, would you?
I might have his number on campus.
That's all right. We'll find him.
Yes. He's a good kid. Maybe a little messed up.
Well, I'm sure with the proper guidance he'll be fine.
What made you pull out that old thing?
I was thinking of you.
And?
It's no Arsonist's Daughter, but I guess you know that. It's a young man's book. It got me remembering how it felt to be young.
Maybe I should read it.
Oh, I don't think there's any danger of you aging prematurely, Grady.
Where's Emily, Hank?
I don't know if she'd want me to tell you that, Grady.
I'm not going to stalk her. Hank. I just... want to know where I stand.
Where you stand?
I  just want to say I'm sorry.
She's in Philadelphia seeing Linda Aahby. The neurologist.
Neurologist? Why? What's wrong?
Nothing's wrong. They went to Wellesley together.
Oh. Right. Linda... I haven't been doing a lot of sleeping lately. My editor's in town and I have the book to finish and 
Ah, right. The book.
Listen, Hank, I'm sorry about all this. I didn't come here to upset you and Irene. I want you to know that.
Why did you come here, Grady?
I  just wanted to see her, I guess  Emily. And to see you too  you and Irene. And to let everyone know that, even though it may be difficult to comprehend now, this  everything that's happening  it's not forever. It doesn't mean "Goodbye."
Give me a break, Grady.
No. I guess you're here for the backpack.
Oh... yeah.
Is it good?
I don't know. It might be...
Say, Professor Tripp, is all that stuff true about Errol Flynn? How he used to put coke on his dick. To make himself, you know, like, last longer?
Christ, Traxler. How the hell should I know?
Well, jeez, you're reading his biography, aren't you?
Oh, right. Yeah, that's true. He used to rub all kinds of things on it. Paprika. Ground lamb.
Sick.
Who's that guy?
Her husband.
What exactly are we doing here, Professor Tripp?
Taking the long way home.
Yo, Traxler.
Hey, Professor Tripp.
Do you get high, Sam?
Only when I'm working.
Holy shit. Are you serious?
As a heart attack.
Thanks  Whoa, Professor Tripp, careful here...
Walter?
Yes?
Who's this ?
It's Grady, Walter.
Grady?
GRADY Tripp. English Department.
I know it's you, Grady, I just... Christ, Grady, do you know what time it is?
I have... eightfifteen. That's not right, is it?
It's threethirty, Grady.
This is important.
Oh?
I... I...
What is it, Grady?
I'm in love with your wife.
Excuse me?
Sara. I'm in love with her.
No.
Nevertheless, I'd like to see you in my office Monday morning.
The more the merrier.
Terry was telling me about you on the plane. It was all so interesting.
That perfume you're wearing, Antonia. It wouldn't happen to be Cristaile, would it?
Why yes. How did you know?
Lucky guess.
That's a nice greenhouse.
It's Mrs. Gaskell's. Her hobby.
Who's he barking at now?
He's still barking at me. He's blind.
I need a ride.
I'm your man.
Couldn't he have just thrown a shoe at the poor thing?
James is... I don't know...
Disturbed. And when your friend Crabtree gets done with him, he's going to be even more disturbed.
I'm not sure that's possible.
Sure it is.
Listen, Antonia 
Tony. Now that I'm home.
Tony. I'm sorry if things didn't work out so well for you tonight. With Terry.
Forget it. I should've known better. Your friend is just, I don't know, into collecting weird tricks. Mind?
He's writing his name in water.
What's that?
Like most editors, he really wants to be a writer, but he's too busy living a novel to bother writing one.
That sounds like a fancy excuse for being a shit.
He'd call it habit. But now... I get the feeling he's going through the motions a bit.
You mean because his career's ruined and all?
Jesus. Is that what he told you?
He said he hasn't had a success in ten years and everyone in New York thinks he's kind of a...
That's nice. All we have is a Japanese beetle trap.
It's a bathtub. What she's standing under.
Professor Tripp.
Chancellor.
I got the message you called.
I got the message you called too.
Easy there.
I'm sorry. It's these goddamned shoes. I don't know how anyone actually walks in these things.
I need to talk to you.
That's funny. I need to talk to you, too. Perhaps you could put some of these coats in the upstairs guest room, Professor Tripp.
I don't believe I know where the upstairs guest room is.
Well then. I'd better show you. Terry 
New?
Walter just got it back from the framer today.
You go first.
All right. This morning 
I'm pregnant.
I'm sure.
Well. This is... surprising. Does Walter...?
I think Walter would find this a little more than surprising.
Emily left me this morning.
She's left before...
She's left the room before. She always came back.
So. I guess we just divorce our spouses, marry each other, and have this baby, right? Simple.
Simple.
Is that Cristaile?
Hm.
My God, I wear the same scent as a transvestite. She IS a transvestite, isn't: she?
If she's not now, Terry will make sure she is by the end of the evening.
Has he asked to see the book yet?
Yes.
And? Are you going to tell him?
No. Maybe. I don't know. I don't know what I'm going to do.
Neither do I.
Sara, my arm. I'm stuck, honey.
I guess you're going to have to chew it off then.
You had another one, didn't you? You have to see a doctor, Grady. First thing Monday morning. All right?
Is the thing  is it over?
Almost. Want to sit up? What's the matter?
Nothing. I think I twisted my 
Well...
Don't. I know what you're going to say.
No, really, Sara, I don't think you 
You love Emily. I know that. And you need to stay with her.
I don't think I really have a choice in, that. Emily left me.
She'll come back. That's why I'm going to... to not have this baby.
Not have it.
No. There's no way. I mean, don't you think there's no way?
Well, no, I don't see any way. And I know how hard it is for you to  to lose this chance.
No you don't. And fuck you for saying you do. And fuck you for "saying... ...for saying there's just no way. Because there could be a way, Grady.
Who's gun is that?
It's  it's a souvenir. Of Baltimore.
Heavy. Smells like gunpowder.
Caps.
Pow.
You got me.
I love you, Grady.
I can't believe you hung up on me, you dick.
Totally. I'm sorry. A lot was happening this morning. Can you talk?
Walter's on campus, being the good soldier for WordFest. But he's a basket case. Someone stole Marilyn's jacket last night. And Poe's missing, too.
I heard.
You heard? How?
A twelveyearold policeman came by the house this morning.
Did you confess?
Your fingerprints were all over the bedroom.
Really? That was fast.
I'm kidding. Hello?
Oh. Right. Ha. Listen, about last night. There is something I need to tell...
Are you limping? Why are you limping?
Hub? Oh, well, that's part of what I need to...
Did you pass out again, Grady? Did you fall somewhere?
No. I mean. Well, actually, yes. Sort of. I don't remember. Listen, Sara, I have to tell you something.
All right.
Gee, Grady, that sounded so heartfelt. I don't know whether to swoon or smirk.
Really, Sara, I...
I believe you. I believe you want to be with me. But this is not just about me anymore.
I know that. I know what's at stake here...
No, I don't think you do. And besides... I haven't decided yet.
About the baby.
That... and you.
Who's that sitting in your car?
James Leer.
What's he doing out there?
I'm sort of helping him work through some issues.
Sara.
I tried to call, but apparently there's something wrong...
Oh?
It seems one of our students is  missing and his parents found a dead dog in his bed.
I'm sorry, Sara. I've been trying to tell you. It's all my 
I'm not very happy with you right now, Grady. But more importantly, Walter's not very happy and he's gotten the police involved. They seem to think James Leer is somehow responsible for all of this. You wouldn't happen to know where James is, would you, Grady?
Inside.
And the jacket?
Over there. In the backseat of the...
Someone stole my car.
Grady.
Honestly. Someone stole my car. I parked it right there last night.
Are you sure you parked it there?
Of course, I'm sure. Ah, Christ, the puberty police are back.
This is not what the university has in mind when it promises a liberal education, Grady.
Would Walter really press charges?
It's within the realm. He takes his souvenirs pretty seriously. And he was just a wee bit prickly this morning.
You didn't happen to call the house last night, did you, Grady?
I think I might have.
And what do you think you might have said?
I think I might've said I was in love with you.
He told you.
He told me.
And what did you say?
I said it didn't sound like you.
I'm so glad to see you, Sara.
I believe you. Did that nice doctor let you out? Or is this you improvising again, Grady?
I'm through improvising.
Terry told me about Wonder Boys. Is it true? Did you lose it all?
I lost it all.
Oh, Grady. You're such a putz.
I know.
And you're old.
Ouch. How many?
Dozens. It's very sad.
I went and looked at some babies just now.
Oh?
I guess you have to go on faith.
Some times...
Did you tell Walter?
I told Walter.
Does he still love you?
It didn't come up.
Did you just make that up?
In the hospital. I was kind of excited about it at the time, but then I was on pretty heavy painkillers.
You don't deserve me, you know.
I know, but sometimes...
Yes, Hannah?
I think maybe we're missing the point. It seems to me James' strength as a writer is that he doesn't take us by the hand. He treats us like adults. He respects us enough to forget us. That takes... courage.
Thanks for that. He all right?
I think so... What about you?
Me? Sure. Why?
Just checking.
He's going with me. You take Crabtree. And his friend. All right?
Ail right. By the way, his friend...?
The answer's yes. I think. Yes. I don't know. Where are they exactly?
James. This is my editor, Terry Crabtree.
James'll know about George Sanders.
I've been rereading Arsonist's Daughter. It's so beautiful, Grady. So natural. It's like all your sentences always existed, just waiting around in Style Heaven, or wherever, for you to fetch them down.
I thank you.
And I love the inscription you wrote to me. Only I'm not quite the downy innocent you think I am.
I hope that isn't true. We need all the downy innocents we can get.
So what are you going to do?
Do?
I just mean, I  I guess Emily isn't going to be there when you get home.
Look, Hannah. When you get him home... make sure he's all right. Before you leave. Okay?
I would if I knew where I was taking him.
Hannah, are you telling me you don't know where James Leer lives?
Some apartment somewhere. But I've never seen it.
That strikes me as odd.
James is odd. I know he has an aunt in Sewickley Heights. I dropped him there once, but... Come to think of it, it wasn't even his Aunt's house. He said she worked there. Or something. I don't remember.
His bag. You know that ratty green thing he's always carrying around. He must've left it inside.
Hhuh. Last time I saw it was...
All right. Take him to my place. He can crash on the sofa.
The one in your office? It's the best one for naps.
I don't think it really matters, Hannah. We could probably stand him up in the garage with the snow shovels at this point.
I thought we were going to talk. Last night.
Oh. Well. I...
Hey.
Grady!
I know I shouldn't have, but there it was, just sort of lying out, and I couldn't resist and  and  I suck.
No, it's okay. I just can't believe I left it out in the open like that. Crabtree hasn't been in here, has he? Poking around?
I don't know  maybe  I don't think so.
Listen, Hannah. You don't remember where that aunt worked, do you? James' aunt.
He shot the Chancellor's dog, didn't he? The blind one.
Actually, He's not the Chancellor's  What?
At first the police thought he just ran away, but this afternoon Dr. Gaskell found some blood spots on the carpet 
Jesus.
Crabtree said it sounded like something James would be messed up in.
Crabtree? He doesn't even know James.
Who does?
The aunt, Hannah. Where did you take James that day?
I told you, Sewickly Heights.
But where? I need the street.
I don't know, Grady. I just dropped him on a corner.
He cribbed that from Borges.
It beats 'What's your major?'
Right. Anyway, I was wondering if I could borrow your car. Mine's sort of out of commission.
Sure. The keys are on the dresser next to... to your book.
I uh, I didn't finish, I... fell asleep.
That good, huh?
No, it's not that, it's...
It's just that, you know, I was thinking about how, in class, you're always telling us 'that writers make choices  at least the good ones. And, don't get me wrong. I'm not saying the book isn't really great  I mean, really great  but at times it's, well, very detailed, you know, with the genealogies of everyone's horses and all the dental records and so on  and I don't know, maybe I'm wrong, but it sort of reads, in places, like, well, actually, like... ...you didn't make any choices at all. And I was wondering if it might not be different if, maybe, when you wrote, you weren't always... under the influence.
Uh huh. Well, thanks for the thought, but, as shocking as this may sound, I'm not the first writer to sip a little weed. And furthermore, it might interest you to know that one book I wrote, as you say, 'under the influence,' happened to win a little something called the PEN award which, by the way, I accepted 'under the influence.'
It was my mother's. She won it in a penny arcade in Baltimore when she was in Catholic school.
It's very convincing.
It used to shoot these little paper caps, but they don't make them anymore. The caps.
It's just... for good luck. Some people carry rabbits' feet...
...You carry firearms.
Are you and Hannah seeing each other, James?
No! What gave you that idea?
Relax, James. I'm not her father. I just rent her a room.
She likes old movies like I do, that's all. Besides, she doesn't really know me. She thinks she does, but she doesn't. Maybe it's because she's Mormon and I'm Catholic.
Maybe it's because she's beautiful and she knows it and try as she might to not let that screw her up, it's inevitable that it will in some way.
You're not like my other teachers, Professor Tripp.
You're not like my other students, James. So what was the movie you two saw?
Huh? Oh. Son of Fury. With Tyrone Power and Frances Farmer.
She went crazy, Frances Farmer.
So did Gene Tierney. She's in it too.
Sounds like a good one.
It's not bad.
Listen, James, about this afternoon. In workshop. I'm sorry. I think I let things get a bit out of control.
They really hated it. I think they hated it more than any of the other ones.
Well...
It doesn't matter. It only took me an hour to write.
Really? That's remarkable.
I have trouble sleeping. While I'm lying in bed I figure them out. The stories.
You cold, James?
A little.
So what are you doing out here?
It's colder in there.
You're right.
Actually, I saw the greenhouse. So I thought... I thought I'd come out here and take a look at it. You don't see one of those every day. It looks like heaven...
Heaven?
I saw a movie once. Part of it took place in heaven. Everyone wore white and lived in crystal houses. Like that. At least that's the way I remember it...
James. Don't leave just yet. There's something I think you ought to see.
I'll miss my bus.
This is worth it.
Is that really it?
That's really it.
The one she wore on her wedding day?
So I'm told.
Go ahead.
Really?
Really.
They're glass. The buttons.
Like the lady herself.
It's feels unreal, like butterfly wings or... something. It must've cost Dr. Gaskell a lot.
I guess. Walter never tells Sara the truth about how much he pays for these things.
You're really good friends with the Chancellor, aren't you?
Pretty good. I'm friends with Dr. Gaskell, too.
I guess you must be, if you know the combination to his closet and he doesn't mind your being here in their bedroom like this.
Right.
I'm sorry. Professor Tripp. Maybe it's seeing that jacket that belonged to her. It just looks... really lonely. Hanging there. In a closet. Maybe I'm just a little sad.
Maybe. I'm feeling a little sad myself tonight.
You mean, with your wife leaving you and all? Hannah mentioned something about it. About a note.
Yes. Well. It's complicated, James. I think we should go now.
Shit, James. You shot Dr. Gaskell's dog.
I had to. Didn't I?
Couldn't you've just pulled him off me?
No! He was crazy. I didn't  he looked  I thought 
Okay, okay. Take it easy. Don't freak out on me.
Do you have a mirror? It's the best way to see if someone's breathing.
He's dead, James. Believe me, I know a dead dog when I see one.
Professor Tripp? Can I ask you a question?
Yea, James.
What are we going to do with...
I don't know. I'm still trying to figure out how to tell the Chancellor I murdered her husband's dog.
You?
Trust me, James, when the family pet's been assassinated, the owner doesn't want to hear one of her students was the triggerman.
Does she want to hear it was one of her professors?
I've got tenure.
That's a big trunk. It fits a tuba, a suitcase, a dead dog, and a garment bag almost perfectly.
That's just what they used to say in the ads. Come on, Crabtree, I know you're holding...
Whose tuba is that anyway?
Miss Sloviak's.
Can I ask you something about her?
She is. Ah. Here we go...
Oh. So. Is  is your friend Crabtree  is he  gay?
Most of the time he is, James. Some of the time he isn't. Now what do we have here?
Looks like... our old friend Mr. Codeine. That should take the pinch out of my ankle. Have one.
No thanks. I'm fine without them.
Right. That's why you were standing in the Chancellor's back yard twirling that little cap gun of yours tonight. You're fine, all right, you're fit as a fucking fiddle.
This is so embarrassing! You guys had to carry me out.
Is he all right?
Mmhmmm... knap... sap...
What's he saying?
Shit. He must've left it back at Thaw. In the auditorium.
Mmrrmmm... KNAP SAP!
Thank you.
You're welcome.
I'm okay. I just lost my balance.
I put you on the floor.
Oh.
I thought you might  I don't know  swallow your tongue or something. I guess you really miss her, huh?
Huh? Oh, no. This isn't Emily's. I just write in it.
I guess there's probably a story behind that.
There is, but it's not that interesting.
Want me to get that?
Sure.
He didn't give his name.
Who?
The guy on the phone.
What'd he say?
He wanted to know if a Grady Tripp lived here and drove a dark maroon 1966 Ford Galaxie 500 with black interior.
What'd you tell him?
Yes.
Good, James. If the Zodiac killer calls, be sure to mention the back door pops open with a couple hard shakes to the right.
I thought maybe you'd won a radio contest or something. Is that single spaced?
Afraid so.
That's a big book you're writing.
I think it's sort of writing itself at this point.
Wow, Hannah always swore you were working, but 
But... ?
Nothing, it's just that, well, it's been awhile since Arsonist's Daughter, and some people  some of the kids in workshop  thought maybe you were...
Washed up?
Blocked.
Ah. I don't believe in writer's block.
Professor Tripp?
Hm.
How did I get here last night?
No one seems to know where you live, James. Hannah thought you'd like my couch.
And... and before that. Did I do anything? Anything bad?
Well, James, you did shoot the Head of the English Department's dog and steal his most prized piece of memorabilia.
How's that?
Well done, James.
I got kicked out. Well, not exactly kicked out. I was asked to leave.
I guess there's probably a story behind that.
There is, but it's not that interesting.
So where have you been staying?
The bus station.
It's not so bad. I know the night janitor. And there's a broken locker I can put my stuff.
But James. I mean... How long?
A couple weeks. That's why... that's why I had the gun. For protection.
Jesus, James, you should've told someone.
Who?
I don't know... Me.
Isn't this...?
Hm.
I can't help myself. I don't know what's the matter with me.
Shit, James, you're hungover. What do you think's the matter with you?
She seemed to take it pretty well.
Yeah, well, actually...
Don't be proud, James. We're in Sewickley Heights. We could find you a nice golf course to barf on.
No.
I've got a thing about, places like this. I know what those houses are like. I know what the people are like.
Your aunt?
Humboldt County?
Maybe...
It's my father. He gets it from his doctor.
Glaucoma?
Colon cancer.
Jesus, James. Wow.
It's a bit of a scandal. My parents live in a small town.
Where's that?
Carvel.
Carvel? Where's Carvel?
Outside Scranton.
I never heard of it.
It's a hellhole. Three motels and a mannequin factory. My dad worked there for thirtyfive years.
Your father worked in a mannequin factory?
Seitz Plastics. That's where he met my mom. She was a fry cook in the cafeteria. Before that, she'd been a dancer.
What kind of dancer?
Whatever kind they wanted her to be.
James Leer, are you telling me your mother was a stripper?
I'm telling you what I was told by my uncle. And he should know. He ran half a dozen men's clubs in Baltimore before he skipped town on a bad debt.
Didn't you say your Mom went to Catholic school?
When we fall, we fall hard.
Amazing.
I thought you were the guy who didn't like to lose control of his emotions.
Maybe I just needed the moment to present itself.
This is so nice. It's like where Andy Hardy would live. What's it called again?
Kinship.
Kinship. And what's here?
Unless I miss my bet... my wife.
The one that left you?
That's right. That one.
Someone jumped on your car with their butt...
How can you tell?
You can see the outline of a butt.
Want one. They're incredible. Incredible.
Smoke the rest of that joint, James, and you can start on the box.
Maybe she didn't come here.
She came here. We'll just wait. In the meantime, I need you to shimmy through.
Relax. Emily hasn't carried a house key since she was twelve years old. And your hips are as slim as hers.
It's not that. It just reminded me of  you know  of what's in the car. In the trunk.
Oh. Right. Well, let's try not to think about that.
It feels really... good... here.
I know. It's the house you want to wake up in on Christmas morning. Make yourself at home. I'll be right back.
I just wanted a little sip.
I just wanted a little sip? Tell me, James, exactly what point was it that you turned into Serpent Boy?
Probably about the time you gave me the codeine pills last night.
Jesus... Look, James, you appear to possess  like many an aspiring writer before you, by the way  a rather ardent affinity for the stuff of which dreams are made. However, I think it's best if, for the moment at least ...we abstain.
You're mad at me, aren't you?
What?
You're mad because I shot your girlfriend's dog.
It wasn't her dog. It's her husband's  Who said anything about girlfriend?
Okay, James, I wish you hadn't shot my girlfriend's dog. Even though Poe and I weren't exactly what you'd call simpatico, that's no reason for him to take two in the chest. Still, the fact remains that I'm the one who took you up into the Chancellor's bedroom. I'm the one who has to take the blame. I don't know what the hell I was thinking.
Sure you do. You were thinking: 'That's no cap gun in that kid's overcoat.' You were thinking 'I can't let that kid get on the bus alone  he might never get on the bus again.' You were thinking: 'I've got to find a way to distract this kid.' So you did. It was  in its way  a noble act.
Thanks for the halo, James, but I've never done that much thinking ahead in my life  ever.
So, why did you take me up there?
I don't know, James. I don't know why I do half the things I do. Who does? Why do you wear that coat?
It's warm.
James, fall semester, first day of class, it was 95 degrees and you were wearing the coat.
That's why they all give you such a hard time in workshop.
Because of my coat?
Because you act like a goddamn spook all the time. Not to mention the fact that every last one of them is jealous of you.
Jealous? Of me?
Not you. Your talent.
You're lying.
The hell I am.
Yes you are. My stuff stinks. I know it. You said so yourself.
I never said that.
Yes you did. Last night. To your friend Crabtree. "Is he any good?" he said. And you said: "Not yet he isn't." I heard you myself.
I didn't mean it that way.
It's okay, Professor Tripp. Carrie, Howard, the others  they're right. My stories are annoying. They go on and on and on, and the longer they go on the more annoying they become, until finally you just want to grab something heavy and 
Shut up, James. You're annoying. Carrie and Howard don't know what the fuck they're talking about, okay? The entire class combined  including the lovely Hannah Green  has about one tenth of one percent the talent you have, okay?
But, last night...
Who cares what I said last night, James I  I was drunk, I was stoned. I'd been bitten by a dog. My wife had left me. How 'bout cutting me some slack?
I'm sorry.
And don't be so goddamn sensitive. Who cares what anybody thinks anyway? You want to be a good writer? You want to be a great writer? Then stop giving a damn what other people think. Most of them haven't thought in years.
Let me spell it out for you, James. Books don't mean anything. Not to anybody. Not anymore.
Arsonist's Daughter meant something.
You coming?
In a minute. Get us a table.
Want a bite?
No thanks.
That's why you're having them. Your spells.
Spells? Jesus, James, you make it sound like we're in a Tennessee Williams play. I don't have spells.
What would you call them then?
I don't know... 'Episodes.'
It's because you don't eat.
I eat.
When?
When nobody's looking.
You just worry about yourself, James. Okay?
Okay.
Where you going?
Nowhere. You just sit here and... eat.
I'm not going with them.
James. Listen. Things  things are a little weird with me right now and I  well I have enough blame to shoulder these days without having to take the blame if something bad happened to you. And if you hang around me long enough, something bad is going to happen, trust me. That's why I need you to go home. Understand?
I'm not going, with them.
James, like it or not, they're your parents.
Parents? They're not my parents. They're my grandparents. My parents are dead.
I remember that. Five or six years ago.
Six. Their plane went down right outside Scranton.
Near Carvel?
I'm sorry about all that. I just  I don't like to talk about my family. They treat me like a freak. She makes me sleep in the basement of my own house. It's mine. My parents left it to me.
Get out of here.
That's why she hates me. That's why she makes me sleep in the basement.
In the crawl space, with the rats and the casks of Amontillado. Come on. Up.
Can I  I mean  do you mind  if I wear this again. Professor Tripp?
Ah, wear whatever you want.
And we both thank you for that, but we're... we're... fine.
I'm fine, right. Fit as a fucking fiddle.
Does she mean  does she know about... her dog?
It's Walter's dog and yes, she does know. But let's spare her the details. Come on, your shoes are in the hail.
Don't worry, James, I'll figure something out.
I'm not worried. You're not worried, are you. Professor Tripp?
I'm a little worried, James.
Don't be. I don't care if they expel me. I probably should be expelled.
Well, let's see if we can keep that from happening.
Professor Tripp...?
Yes, James.
Even if I end up going to jail....
Hello?
Grady, it's Sara. Thank God you're there. You won't believe what's happened.
Could you hold on a minute, honey?
Sara? Hi. It's Grady.
Where are you, Grady? An elevator?
I'm in Kinship. Listen, Sara, there's some things we need to talk about...
You're in Kinship?
Yes. But that's not why I called...
With Emily?
What? No. There's no one here. I'm just... just...
Just what? Doing a little dusting?
...reconcile with Emily.
Are you there to not reconcile with her?
Goodbye, Grady.
No. Sara, you don't understand...
Trust me, I understand. I just want to say something to you, Grady.
Yea?
How you choose to live your own life is your business. But you be careful with that boy, Grady. With James. He belongs to somebody else.
Vernon.
Move away, cupcake. He's got a gun.
Who's got a gun?
You've got a gun, motherfucker. Drop it!
Relax, Vernon...
Not true. You're the only Vernon I know. Actually, I'm wrong. I once knew a Vernon Peabody at Penguin U.K.
Shut up. Cupcake. Please. Inside.
It's just a souvenir. They don't even make the caps anymore.
Bullshit. I know a gun when I see one. And that's a gun.
No, really...
Who the hell is that?
A Manhattan book editor murdering a Mormon girl's clutch.
Let me get this straight. All that paper that went into the river. That was the only copy?
'Fraid so.
And you're saying it's some kind of sign? What the fuck's the matter with you?
Hey, Vernon. Can I ask you a question?
Shoot.
Boy or girl?
As long as it looks like her, I don't care. You know what I'm saying?
Right. Well, thanks. For the lift.
No sweat. Only do me a favor?
Sure.
Stop calling me Vernon.
I passed out.
You did.
I've been doing that a lot lately.
So I hear. You've also been smoking a lot of marijuana, I understand.
Do you think that's why I've been having these... ...spells?
How long have you been having them?
The last month maybe.
How long have you been smoking marijuana?
Spiro T. Agnew was vice president, I believe.
That's probably not the problem, then. What about your lifestyle. Any major changes recently?
I've been trying to finish a book...
And your wife left you.
Is that in my chart?
I spoke with the woman who saved your life. You're lucky she came along when she did.
I know.
You need to see a doctor, Mr. Tripp. An internist. And I think you really ought to consider seeing a therapist, as well.
She told you about...
Her dog, yes.
Actually, it was her husband's dog...
Look, Mr. Tripp. You have a drug problem, all right? On top of that, you have a bite on your ankle that is severely infected. We pumped you with antibiotics so you'll be fine, but another day or two and you might have lost the foot. As for your spells. I'm guessing they're a result of the anxiety you've been experiencing lately.
They're anxiety attacks? That's a little disappointing.
Better luck next time.
So is my friend... is Sara still here?
No. There's no one here.
I have to see her. As soon as possible.
You driving this car?
Excuse me?
This 1966 maroon Ford Galaxie 500. You driving this car?
It's mine.
Bullshit. It's mine, motherfucker.
You must be mistaken.
Bullshit.
How are you  is it Joe?
Jeff. Sorry. I didn't even know this was your house until about an hour ago.
Don't sweat it. Well. 'Night, Jeff.
Oh, Professor Tripp? You know, last semester, what I said that time in office hours  I hope there's no hard feelings.
No...
I mean, I was breaking up with this girl at the time and my car was ail fucked up and  well  I was pretty bent in general.
It's cool, Jeff. Really.
I just want you to know that's why I dropped your class and said all that shit about the university stealing my money and you being a pseudo Faulknerian nobody.
I'll be... somewhere else.
Hey, Jeff. If you're really interested in discussing that business with the tango, try the guy at the end of the hall.
Tripp!
How are you, Crabtree?
Brimming. Say hello to my new friend, Miss Antonia... uh...
I was explaining to Antonia how a book comes to be published. What you do as a writer, what I do as an editor...
I sweat blood for five years and he checks for spelling.
Emily?
Your wife.
Oh. We're picking her up. Downtown.
Perfect. Well then, shall we?
Do you know how many times I've boarded an airplane praying someone like her would sit down beside me? Particularly while I'm on my way to Pittsburgh.
Lay off Pittsburgh. It's one of the great cities.
If it can produce a Miss Sloviak you'll get no argument from me.
She's a transvestite.
You're stoned.
She's still a transvestite.
Mm.
Isn't she?
It's fine. It's done. Basically. I'm just sort of... tinkering with it.
Great. I was hoping I could get a look at it sometime this weekend. Think that might be possible?
I don't know. I'm sort of at a critical... juncture.
I thought you were tinkering.
I just mean...
Forget I asked. I don't want to pressure you, Tripp. But... ...I get pressure. Know what I mean?
You didn't actually purchase this car, did you. Trip??
It was Jerry Nathan's. He owed me money.
He owes God money. You know, he queered himself for good with Esquire.
He said something about being between things.
Yeah, between a bookie and a pair of broken legs.
Trip??
She left me. Crabs.
Left you...? Who? Emily?
This morning. I found a note in the kitchen.
But. ...why didn't you say something, Tripp? I mean, what are we doing here?
I thought you were Mrs. Gaskell's hobby, Tripp.
Piss off, Crabs. I lost a wife today.
Oh, I'm sure you'll find another. You always do.
Is that just beer?
Primarily. Although I gather you two staged a little raid on the Crabtree pharmacopoeia. You missed a few bottles, by the way.
I'm sure. Where is everyone?
Sara and Walter declined. Guess they wanted to go home and curl up on the couch with the dog.
He has a book.
I know. He started it Fall semester.
He finished it Winter Break.
So. Is he any good?
No. Not yet he isn't.
Well, I'm going to read it anyway.
Come on. Crabs. Don't do this. He's one of my students, for Christ sake. I'm not even sure if he's 
He is. Take my word for it.
I think it's more complicated than that. Besides, he's a little... scattered. He almost... did something stupid tonight. At least, I think so. Anyway, he doesn't need sexual confusion thrown into the stew right now.
On the contrary, it could be just the ticket.
No sexual confusion there, eh, Professor?
Shut up and drink.
He's a boxer. A flyweight.
Huh uh. A jockey. His name's, um, Curtis... Curtis Hardapple.
Not Curtis.
Vernon, then. Vernon Hardapple. The scar's are from a  from a horse. He fell during a race and got trampled.
And now he's addicted to painkillers.
He can't piss standing up anymore.
He lives with his mother.
And he had a younger brother who... was... a...
Groom. Named Claudell. And his mother blames Vernon for his death.
Because... because...
That was good.
He heard everything we were saying.
Christ, Crabs, what do you expect me to do? The kid's practically in a coma.
Tripp.
Yes.
Hit your brakes.
What's this guy's problem?
Just go around him.
Shit.
Back up. Go out the other way.
Wait here. I'll be right back.
Where would we go?
Tripp?!
Shit.
Listen, Hannah, I'm flattered, really, but right now I 
Tripp, where the hell...
You stay there.
What? Ohhhh. Is that... it?
Honestly, Tripp. Do you actually think I would sneak in here and read your book without asking you?
Gee, I don't know, Crabs. I don't seem to remember you actually asking me if you could invite 200 people over to trash my living room.
Sometimes we have to improvise.
Think, Hannah. Does James have any friends. I mean, besides you and... me?
James? My James? What's happened?
Nothing, he's just been sort of, I don't know... kidnapped.
Kidnapped? By who?
His parents.
Good God. Let's go rescue him.
Good idea, Crabs. Only one problem. I don't know where they live.
Ah. Wait a minute. The university must know where he lives.
It's a little late to call Admissions.
Is it a little late to call the Chancellor?
Maybe... I don't know.
You know  based on what I've read  this is a very exciting piece of material, this Big Parade.
Love. It's Love Parade  and what do you mean 'based on what you've read'? You skimmed two chapters at 80 miles an hour while gargling methamphetamines.
I've been doing this a long time, Tripp. I feel this kid in my bones.
Only in your bones?
How bad is it for you?
Bad enough. And God knows I don't exactly fit the new corporate profile.
Which is?
Competence.
So tell me about you and the Chancellor.
What's to tell?
Plenty, I'm sure. But, for what it's worth...
Jesus. There must be two dozen windows on that thing. How are we supposed to find his?
I told you. They keep him chained in the basement. Come on.
Oh, Christ, don't start on ol' Gran or we'll leave you here.
Hey, I heard all about it  the parents, the grandparents, the China town thing  and I believe you, okay? That's why we're here. Now go get dressed.
So modest.
So sensitive.
Oh, come on, Tripp. Cut the kid some slack.
It's just ail that crap he spins out. Just once I'd like to know if the little bastard is telling the truth.
The truth. I know that's always been real important to you. Okay, check this out...
Crabtree.
Yees?
Is he awake?
I'm afraid he's pretty worn out, poor kid.
Nevertheless. There's a police officer standing on the porch and I don't think he's going away.
Shut up, James.
So what's the problem?
There is no problem. Did I say there was a problem?
Who do you think it is?
The Chancellor's here? Now?
Evidently. Coming!
I want to publish this. I've got to. I think they'll let me. With a little editorial guidance it could be brilliant.
Great. Between you and Officer Pupcik out there he can be the next Jean Genet. It's been awhile since somebody wrote a good book in jail.
So  what do we do now?
Find the jacket.
Oh! Huh. Exactly how do we do that?
First I see if Hannah will let me borrow her car.
It seems to me that girl would let you borrow her pancreas.
Want some help with that?
Don't touch it.
Let me get this straight. Jerry Nathan owes you money. So, as collateral, he gives you his car.
Only now I'm starting to think the car wasn't exactly Jerry's to give.
So whose car is it?
My guess  Vernon Hardapple.
The hood jumper?
He said a few things that lead me to believe the car's his.
Such as.
'That's my car, motherfucker.'
Uh huh. So. We find Vernon, we find the car. We find the car...
...we find the jacket.
There's only one problem, Tripp. We don't know his real name. We just made it up. In fact, we made the whole guy up.
No wonder he screwed us over.
Christ, Tripp. How did you know?
Call it a hunch.
Naturally you have copies.
I have an alternate version of the first chapter.
You'll be all right then. Look at Carlyle, when he lost his luggage.
That was MacCaulay.
Or Hemingway, when Hadley lost all those stories.
He was never able to reproduce them.
Bad examples. Look, Tripp, I don't want to depreciate the loss here, but perhaps  in a sense  this  is for the best.
Kind of a sign, you're saying.
In a sense.
I don't think so. In my experience, signs are usually a lot more subtle.
The jacket, Tripp. We need the jacket.
Oh, right. Oola. About that jacket...
Came to my senses.
Ah. Well. Congratulations. Meanwhile, what is James supposed to do? Pray for Walter Gaskell to come to his?
Walter Gaskell isn't going to send James Leer to jail, Crabs. I know that.
Do you know he won't expel him?
No. But I don't think that matters.
That's very enlightened, Professor. It's comforting to know that America's children have you for a teacher.
Me? What can I do?
Gee, I don't know, Crabs... Improvise. You're good at that.
You peeked, didn't you?
I peeked.
That's just how my brain works, I guess.
Fascinating. Listen, why don't you come out with us after the lecture. There's a place on the Hill I always get Trip to take me.
Actually... I just want to go home.
Oh, don't be silly. No one your age just wants to go home. Besides, faculty will be present. Just think of it as a field trip.
He's fine. He's narrating.
We're going to the men's room. Only we might not make it in time.
Hey. What are you guys doing here?
We're springing you, Leer. Get some pants on.
I like what you've done with it. When's Captain Nemo moving in?
The candelabras were my Gran's.
You all right, Professor Tripp?
He's great. Come on, let's blow before lo' Gran decides to boil your bones for breakfast.
Oh, well, that's just it. She's been coming down here, every half hour or so, to, sort of, check on me. If I'm not here, she might... call the police or... something.
Hhhuh. So we decoy her. Stick a couple pillows and one of your teddy bears under the spread and she won't know the difference.
Yeah. Like in Against All Flags. Only they use a couple big hams.
You snore.
So I hear.
No offense, Professor Tripp, but you look sorta crappy.
He's right, you look horrible.
It's the Chancellor.
Ah, right. Well, I gave you my opinion.
Thank you.
You're welcome.
I'll tell you the problem. You behind the wheel. There's your fucking problem.
That's pretty simplistic, don't you think?
Hey, pal, you don't start doing crazy eights in the middle of the street none of this happens.
Excuse me. Did you, or did you not, have a gun to his head?
He was trying to steal my car!
What he means is, it's difficult to distill the essence of a book sometimes. It lives in the mind.
Yeah, but you gotta know what it's about, right? I mean, if you didn't know what it was about, why were you writing it?
Oh... Look at this... What do you want, snakeskin?
Just passin' through on my way to who knows where...
Sure... I figured I'd see you sometime...
Hopin' you could tell me if there's a contract out on me. I really need to know.
By who?
I think Santos or Marietta Fortune.
Heard you was goin' out with that bitch's daughter.
You heard right.
You really are one dumb asshole.
Life is unpredictable.
Does that girlfriend of yours know that her mama and Santos killed her daddy? Does she know her own daddy was one of the biggest drug dealers around  till he started snortin' the shit himself?... Does she know you was around that night her daddy was set fire to?
I didn't see nothin'...
Yeah... But I did... And I told you all about it...
Is there a contract?... We made a deal once that we'd tip each other off if we ever heard.
I know... I remember.
Well?...
I ain't heard of nothin'.
Thanks...
...Sailor Ripley... Can I talk to Lula?
There's no way in hell you can speak to her and...
What?...
...Yes you heard me... Don't ever call back here again.
Hey, Sailor boy, you wanna fuck Lula's mama?...
No.
Well, she wants to fuck you.
No... I just wanted to kiss you good bye... You know too much 'bout little Lula's mom...
Whattya mean?
Well, Johnnie told me you used to drive for Clyde and Santos...
So?
So maybe one night you got a little too close to the fire... And you're gonna get burned, baby... And besides that, you're shit... D'you think I'd let my little girl go with shit like you?... Why, you belong right here in one of these toilets.
You're gonna have to kill me to keep me away from Lula.
Oh, don't worry 'bout that...
It's a prob'lm I don't think's gonna go away too soon though... Peanut, I'm thinkin' of breakin' parole and takin' you out to sunny California.
I knew you'd want it again...
That's not why I called.
Oh yeah  sure... okay.
Santos... It isn't.
Have it your way... But you want it.
Lula's gone off with Sailor.
What do you want me to do about it?
I want you to take care of Sailor, so he won't ever be able to bother my baby again.
Take care of him?
Yes.
What does take care of him mean? Do you want me to give him food or some clothing?
What's with you? You know what take care of him means. I don't call Santos except for one big reason.
Big is the key word, and I'm telling you I want it bad.
I want you to get rid of Sailor.
Get rid of him?
Yes... Get rid of him.
How would I do that? Send him on a trip  like maybe to Hawaii?
Santos, why in hell do you insist on playin' this stupid game?
Just tell me what you want.
I don't need to explain anymore'n I have... You know damn well.
You need to explain it.
All right... I want you... to... kill... Sailor... As simple as that.
Simple? Kill him? How?
That's your business... I don't care how.
Like an accident where maybe Lula might also get hurt?
NO... For God's sakes, Santos!
Well, like kill him with the atomic bomb?
Santos...
Explain it... I told you.
Shoot him.
Shoot him? Like with a gun?
Yes.
Where? In the leg?
No.
Where?
In the head.
Shoot Sailor in the head with a gun... Now I'm beginning to get it... You want me to shoot Sailor in the head with a gun.
Yes.
But where in the head? Not the chin, I hope.
No... In the brains... What little I'm sure he has.
You want me to shoot Sailor in the brains with a gun.
Yes.
Through the forehead?
Yes.
Wrong! It's much better to blow a hole in the back of the head... right toward the bridge of the nose... Lots and lots of irreparable damage.
See! I knew you had it all under control.
Why didn't you send Johnnie Farragut?
Maybe I did... Try New Orleans first... Lula can't ever stop talkin' 'bout that town.
On one condition...
You give me your permission to kill Johnnie Farragut.
Santos... No... Please, Santos...
You're not tellin' me that you're sweet on him?
No... But...
One day he's gonna find out what we're up to with Mr. Reindeer, and he could cause us a lot of trouble.
I'm gonna take your silence as a "yes"...
Santos... I can't...
Shhhh... It's all right... Also, I either take you or that pretty daughter of yours to bed.
You fucker, don't you ever touch Lula  You fucker, I'll kill you.
Put your shoulders back.
What?
Put your shoulders back, I said.
You got nice tits.
Someone's gonna see us.
That's just another part of the price to pay.
Santos... You kill that Sailor, otherwise he's gonna turn my baby against me.
I got your message... But you went right to Johnnie, didn't you?... I can't trust you, bitch  not for one minute... Naughty girl... Sailor and Lula are headed west, and guess what? There's no turning back. I'm in a killing mood.
No...
My very best to Johnnie... Bless his soul.
Santos... Where's JJJohnnie?
Shhhhhh... Thank you, gentlemen... I'll look after her now...
Santos... What's happenin' here?
Hey... Stop the nervous crybaby routine... You're my girl now... Santos is gonna wipe away those tears and make you happy... Come on, let's get outta here.
Where we goin'?
Got word the kids are moving through Texas... I think an ending is being arranged there... Come on, lemme see a smile.
Please Santos... Where's Johnnie?
I'm afraid his car is gone, Mrs. Fortune.
I don't understand this... I don't understand this one bit. He was supposed to meet me right her in this lobby. Somethin' bad has happened  I jus know it.
Perhaps we should call a local law enforcement officer.
HELL NO!!! That's the last thing we need... A buncha cops runnin' around.
Oh God! What does that mean?
I'm sure I wouldn't know, ma'am... and buffalo hunting too... hmmmmm?
And jus when my baby's out on some Texas road with a killer.
Mama???
You know who it was and you know you aren't, and I mean ARE NOT gonna see him EVER... End of story.
Like hell.
I'm fine, mama. I just wanted to tell you not to worry.
Why, how could I not worry? Not knowin' what's happenin' to you or where you are? Are you with that boy?
If you mean Sailor, mama, yes I am.
Are you comin' back here soon, Lula? I need you here.
Need me for what, mama? I'm perfectly fine, and safe, too.
You in a dance hall or somethin'? I can hear music behind you.
Just a place.
Really, Lula, this ain't right!
Right?! Mama, was it right for you to sic Johnnie Farragut on us? How could you do that?
Did you run into Johnnie in New Orleans? Lula, are you in New Orleans?
No, mama, I'm in Mexico, and we're about to get on an airplane to Argentina!
Argentina! Lula, you're outta your mind. Now you just tell me where you are and I'll come for you. I won't say nothin' to the police about Sailor, I promise. He can do what he wants, I don't care.
Mama, I'm hangin' up this phone now.
No, baby, don't! Can I send you somethin'? You runnin' low on money? I'll wire you some money if you tell me where you are.
I ain't that dumb, mama. Sailor and I been on a crime spree? Knockin' off convenience stores all across the south? Ain't you read about it?
Lula? I love you, baby. I just want you to be all right.
I am all right, mama. That's why I called, to let you know. I gotta go.
Call me again soon? I'll be waitin' by the phone.
Don't be crazy, mama. Take care of yourself.
You're comin' home, precious. Santos' gonna drive us to the San Antonio airport.
Mama, Sailor's in deep trouble here. I just can't leave him.
I'm goin', mama. No way I can't go.
You ain't takin' Pace, though.
Course I am, mama.
What time's Sailor's train get in?
Six.
Got any plans?
Figure we'll go have supper someplace. Maybe get some barbecue out by Stateline. Sailor always liked that Havana Brown's Pig Pickin'.
Well, you be careful with that boy, Lula.
Sailor ain't a boy no more, mama.
Don't mean him. It's Pace concerns me.
Really, mama, I gotta go.
What if I asked you not to?
Wouldn't make any difference.
What if I told you not to?
Mama... if you get in the way of me and Sailor's happiness, I'll fuckin' pull your arms out by the roots.
...live in exchange for sexual favors. Police said they have identified and questioned at least four girls, all Asians twelve to fifteen years old, who have been living in the North Houston warehouse with a Vietnamese pimp since February. The girls are being treated as victims, said police Sergeant Amos Milburn. 'These are really just children,' he said, 'but they've been exposed to a lot already.
I'll bet.
In international news, India plans to release crocodiles in the Ganges, the holy Hindu river in which millions of people bathe annually, to scavenge for corpses, authorities said.
The reptiles were supposed to be of a docile species, said a senior government official, but it seems the breeders bungled and reared attack crocodiles.
Damn!
The Indian official who supplied this information did so only on condition of anonymity. The Uttar Pradesh state authorities last October released five hundred turtles...
In the Ganges near Varanasi to try and reduce human pollution and now plan to put in the crocodiles to devour floatin' corpses dumped by Hindus too poor to pay for cremation.
HOLY SHIT!! IT'S THE NIGHT OF THE LIVIN' FUCKIN' DEAD!!!!
Hey baby...
Peanut...
Hey, my snakeskin jacket... Thanks, baby... Did I ever tell you that this here jacket for me is a symbol of my individuality and my belief in personal freedom?
'Bout fifty thousand times. I got us a room at the Cape Fear, and guess what?... I hear Powermad's at "The Hurricane."
Stab it and steer.
Did you ever think somethin' like about the wicked witch of the east comin' flyin' in?... Did you ever think somethin' and then later think you've said it out loud to someone?
I really did miss your mind while I was out at Pee Dee, honey. The rest of you, too, of course. But the way your head works is God's own private mystery. What was it you was thinkin'?
Well, I was thinkin' about smokin' actually... My mama smokes Marlboros now, used to be she smoked Kools? I stole 'em from her beginnin' in about sixth grade. When I got old enough to buy my own, I bought those. Now I've just about settled on Mores, as you probably noticed? They're longer.
I guess I started smokin' when I was about six... My mama was already dead from lung cancer...
What brand'd she smoke?
Camels, same as me... Guess both my mama and my daddy died of smoke or alcohol related illness.
Gee, Sailor. I'm sorry, honey. I never would have guessed it.
It's okay. I hardly used to see them anyway. I didn't have much parental guiding. The public defender kept sayin' that at my parole hearin'. He was a good ol' boy, stood by me... Even brought me some cartons of cigarettes from time to time.
I'd stand by you, Sailor... through anything.
Hell, peanut, you stuck with me after I planted Bob Ray Lemon. A man can't ask for more than that.
You're perfect for me, too.
You remind me of my daddy, you know? Mama told me he liked skinny women whose breasts were just a bit too big for their bodies. He had a long nose, too, like theirs. Did I ever tell you how he died?
In a fire, as I recall.
Started he couldn't remember things? Got real violent? Mama kept tellin' me it was on account of lead poisoning from cleanin' the old paint off our house without usin' a mask... But I don't know. Seems like his brain just fell apart in pieces.
You have such a pretty, long neck, like a swan.
Grandmama Pace had a long, smooth white neck. It was like on a statue it was so white?
Sailor, you are somethin' else, honey... When I was fifteen, Mama told me that pretty soon I'd be startin' to think about sex, and I should talk to her before I did anything about it.
But honey, I thought you told me your Uncle Pooch raped you when you was thirteen.
That's true. Uncle Pooch wasn't really an uncle. He was a business partner of my daddy's? And my mama never knew nothin' about me and him  that's for damn sure. His real name was somethin' kind of European, like Pucinski. But everyone just called him Pooch. He came around the house sometimes when Daddy was away. I always figured he was sweet on mama, so when he cornered me one afternoon, I was surprised more'n a little.
How'd it happen, peanut? He just pull out the old toad and let it croak?
You're terrible crude sometimes, Sailor, you know?
I can't hardly understand you when you talk with one of them Mores in your mouth.
I said you can be too crude sometimes? I don't think I care for it.
Sorry, sugar. Go on and tell me how old Pooch done the deed.
Well, mama was at the Busy Bee havin' her hair dyed? And I was alone in the house.
Uncle Pooch came in the side door through the porch, you know? Where I was makin' a jelly and banana sandwich? I remember I had my hair in curlers cause I was goin' that night with Vicki and Cherry Ann, the DeSoto sisters. Uncle Pooch must have known nobody but me was home, cause he came right in and put both his hands on my butt and sorta shoved me up against the counter.
Didn't he say somethin'?
So how'd he finally nail you? Right there in the kitchen?
No, he picked me up.
He was short but powerful. With hairy arms? Anyway, he carried me into the maid's dayroom which nobody used. We did it there on an old bed.
'We' did it? Whattaya mean? Didn't he force you?
Well, sure. But he was supergentle, you know? I mean, he raped me and all, but I guess there's all different kinds of rapes. I didn't exactly want him to do it but I suppose once it started, it didn't seem all that terrible. It was over pretty quick, and after Uncle Pooch just stood there and pulled up his trousers and left me there. I stayed in bed till I heard him drive off. Then I just went back into the kitchen and finished makin' my sandwich.
And you never told nobody about it?
Just you. Uncle Pooch never acted strange or different after. And he never did anything else to me. I always got a nice present from him at Christmas, like a coat or jewelry?
One hundred twenty decibels  head on collision of a '54 Ford PickUp and a '64 Chevy Station Wagon. No survivors. Balls of flame and grinding metal.
Uncle Pooch died in a car crash three years later while he was holidayin' in Myrtle Beach. They still got way too much traffic there for my taste... And another thing, baby... That government of ours should be keepin' us separated from outer space...
Here she goes again...
Sailor, that ozone layer is disappearin'. Seems to me the government could do somethin' about it. One of these mornings the sun'll come up and burn a hole clean through the planet like an XRay.
You okay, honey?
That woman's laugh creeps me out. I heard somethin' like that... somewhere before... Sound'd like the wicked witch...
Just sounded like an old gal havin' a good time to me... You ready to dance?
I'm always ready to dance. But I need me a kiss first, honey. Just one?
Hell, you just rubbed up against the wrong girl is all.
That's good... Now go get yourself a beer. You fellas have alotta the same power Elvis had... Y'all know this one?
What you want to watch this trash for? Ain't one of those people have a real thought in their brain.
That so? You want to tell me what, if any, real thoughts you had lately?
What you have to get personal about so quick? All I mean is you could possibly read a book.
What's that honey?
We didn't have no TV up at Pee Dee, baby, you know?
I'm sorry, sweetie. I forget some moments where all you been the last two years.
Twentythree months, eighteen days is all. Don't need to make more'n it was. This couple's goin' on a date to Hawaii. The girl chose him over the other two guys.
Don't the reject guys get anythin'?
Gift certificates to Kentucky Fried Chicken.
That don't seem fair.
Hell, why should the Datin' Game be different from real life? At least them boys is gonna get somethin' to eat.
Sailor?
Yeah?
Wouldn't it be fabulous if we somehow stayed in love for the rest of our lives?
You think of the weirdest damn things to say sometimes, peanut. Ain't we been doin' a pretty fair job this far?
Oh, you know exactly what I mean, honey? It'd make the future so simple and nice.
At Pee Dee, all you think about is the future, you know? Gettin' out? And what you'll do and what you'll think about when you're on the outside again.
I just think about things as they come up. I never been much of a planner.
It ain't altogether terrible just to let things go along sometimes. Lula, I done a few things in my life I ain't too proud of, but I'll tell ya from now on I ain't gonna do nothin' for no good reason. All I know for sure is there's more'n a few bad ideas runnin' around loose out there.
Musta been a lesson tellin' ya it was the wrong time... What did you do, your mama find out?
She got me an abortion...
...I hope you appreciate my spendin' six hundred dollars, not countin' what it cost us to get here and back... This man's the best damn abortionist in the South.
You tell the boy who knocked you up?
It was my cousin, Dell, done it? His folks used to visit with us summers.
What happened to him?
Oh, nothin'. I never let on to mama about Dell bein' the one. I just flat refused to tell her who the daddy was? I didn't tell Dell, neither. He was back home in Chattanooga by then, anyhow, and I didn't see the point. Somethin' terrible happened to him, though. Six months ago.
What's that, peanut?
Dell disappeared. Dell was learnin' a hard lesson. What I learned from observin' Dell is I think people who are frightened want to disappear. He'd startin' behavin' weird? Like comin' up to people every fifteen minutes and askin' how they were doin'?
Actin' funny how?
Well, like mama told me, Aunt Rootie, Dell's mama? She found cockroaches in Dell's underwear.
One time, Aunt Rootie caught Dell puttin' one big cockroach on his anus?
Hell, peanut...
One time  real late  like about two thirty a.m.? She found Dell up in the black of night all dressed and makin' sandwiches in the kitchen.
...are followin' him around.
Prob'ly the rain boys from Outer Space.
It ain't so funny now, though. December before Christmas? Dell disappeared again and Aunt Rootie hired a private eye to find him. He was missin' for almost a month before he wandered back in the house on mornin' dressed in some filthy Santa Claus suit.
The private eye cost Aunt Rootie over a thousand dollars? Then a little while later Dell ran off a third time to some place he said would "give him peace of mind." Nobody's seen him since.
Sound like ol' Dell's more'n just a little confused, peanut... Too bad he couldn't visit that ol' Wizard of Oz and get some good advice.
Too bad we all can't, baby... One thing about Dell?
What's that?
When he was about seventeen, he startin' losin' his hair.
So?
He's twentyfour now? A year older than you? And must be 'bout bald.
There's worse things that can happen to a man, honey.
Yeah, I suppose. But you know somethin' baby, hair does make a difference.
Let's go dancin', peanut. I'm ready.
We gotta be careful, honey, my mama's gonna have Johnnie Farragut on us like a duck on a june bug, and he's one clever detective? You know how clever? He once told me that he could find an honest man in Washington. My toenails gotta dry first anyways, Sailor.
One thing puzzles my mind, sugar... You're twenty years old  aren't you ever curious why your mama has this fixation on keepin' us apart? Puttin' a detective on us. I'll tell ya Lula... Well... It's more'n me killin' Bob Ray Lemon...
Maybe my mama cares for me just a little too much...
Yeah, maybe...
Sailor!
You up for that?
I'd got to the far end of the world for you, baby... You know I would.
Those toenails dry yet? We got some dancin' to do.
...That's an awful long way to go, just to get some pussy.
Yeah, I had my first taste on that trip to Juarez. At that age you still got a lot of energy.
You still got plenty energy for me, baby.
Sorry, baby... When's the first time you done it with a girl who wasn't hookin'?
Maybe two, three months after Juarez. I was visitin' my cousin, Junior Train, in Savannah, and we were at some kid's house whose parents were out of town. A girl comes up to me that was real tall, taller than me.
She looked right at me and run her tongue over her lips and put her hand on my arm  told me her name was Irma.
What'd you say to her?
Told her my name. Then she said somethin' like, 'It's so noisy down here. Why don't we go upstairs so we can hear ourselves?' She turned around and led the way. I knew I had an important lesson to learn that day.
When she got almost to the top step I stuck my hand between her legs from behind.
Oh, baby. What a bad boy you are!
That's just what she said. I had a boner with a capital "O." I went to kiss her but she broke off laughin' and ran down the hallway. I found her lyin' on a bed in a room filled with assault weapons and Penthouse magazines. She was a wild chick. She was wearin' bright orange pants with kind of Spanish lookin' lacy black stripes down the sides. You know, them kind that doesn't go all the way down your leg?
You mean like pedal pushers?
I guess.
She just rolled over onto her stomach and stuck her ass up in the air. I slid my hand between her legs and she closed her thighs on it.
You're excitin' me, honey. What'd she do?
Her face was halfpushed into the pillow, and she looked back over her shoulder at me and said, 'I won't suck you. Don't ask me to suck you.'
Poor baby. She don't know what she missed. What color hair she have?
Sorta brown, blonde, I guess. But dig this, sweetie. Then she turns over, peels off them orange pants, and spreads her legs real wide and says to me...
I'll drop mama a postcard from somewhere. I mean, I don't want her to worry no more'n necessary.
What do you mean by necessary? She's prob'ly already called the cops, my parole officer, her p.i. boyfriend Johnnie Farragut.
I suppose so. She knew I was bound to see you soon as you was sprung, but I don't figure she counted on us takin' off together like this... I guess this means you're breakin' parole, then?
You guess? My parole was broke two hundred miles back when we burnt Portagee County.
What'll it be like in California, Sailor, do you think? I hear it don't rain much there.
You got about six more big states to go before we find out.
We got through two states already.
That don't smell like a More.
It ain't. It's part of the lessons of life. I picked me up a pack of Vantages before we left the Cape?
They sure do stink.
Yeah, I guess, but  and here's the lesson part  they ain't supposed to be so bad for you.
You ain't gonna begin worryin' about what's bad for you at this hour, are you, sugar? I mean, here you are crossin' state lines with a ANumber One certified murderer.
Manslaughterer, honey, not murderer. Don't exaggerate.
Okay, manslaughterer who's broke his parole and got in mind nothin' but immoral purposes far's you're concerned.
Thank the Lord. Well, you ain't let me down yet, Sailor. That's more'n I can say for the rest of the world?
Life is a bitch and then you marry one.
What kinda trash talk is that?
What it says on the bumper sticker up front. On that pickup.
That's disgustin'. Those kinda sentiments shouldn't be allowed out in public. Is this Biloxi yet?
Almost. I figure we should find us a place to stay and then go eat.
Got anyplace special in mind?
We oughta stay somewhere outta the way. Not in no Holidays or Ramadas or Motel Six. If Johnnie Farragut's on our trail he'll check those first.
How about that one? The Host of the Old South Hotel.
Looks more like the Ghost of the Old South, but we'll try her.
I HATE hotel bedspreads. They don't hardly never get washed, and I don't like the idea of lyin' on other people's dirt.
Come look at this.
What's that, honey?
There ain't no water in the swimmin' pool. Just a dead tree fell in, prob'ly from bein' struck by lightnin'.
It's huge. This musta been a grand old place at one time.
Let's get fed, sweetheart. The light's fadin' fast.
Mississippi... You can almost hear that jazz blowin' up from the big N.O.
Lula... I learned somethin' interestin' today on a science show I heard on the radio... How leeches is comin' back into style.
Say what? Honestly, sugar, you can talk more shit sometimes?
Got you a pack of Mores again, huh?
Yeah, it's a real problem for me, Sailor, you know? When I went in that drugstore by the restaurant in Biloxi? I saw 'em by the register and the girl throw 'em in. I'm not big on resistin'. So what about a leech?
Heard on the radio how doctors is usin' leeches again, just in old times. You know, when even barbers used 'em?
I got one on me at Lake Lanier. Lifeguard poured salt on it and it dropped off. Felt awful. He was a cute boy, though, so it was almost worth it.
Yeah, well listen to this... Radio said back in the 1920s a Italian doctor figured out that if, say, a fella got his nose cut off or bit off in, say, a barfight or somethin', they'd sew one of his forearms to his nose for a few weeks... Then put leeches on it.
Sailor? You expect me to believe a man'd be goin' around with a arm sewed to his nose?
How they used to do it. Course they got more sophisticated ways now. Radio said the Chinese, I think it is, figured a better idea is by insertin' a balloon in the forehead and lettin' it hang down on the nose.
Sailor Ripley! You stop! You're makin' this shit up and I ain't gonna sit for it!
Honest, Lula. I prob'ly ain't precisely got all the facts straight, but it's about what they said.
Honey, we're goin' to bed now and it's time to change the subject.
We're about dry bones, sweetheart. We don't wanna have to push this "bird" into New Orleans.
We sure don't, honey... Get me a Mounds?
I love it when your eyes get wild, honey. They light up all blue almost and little white parachutes pop out of 'em. Oh, Sailor you're so aware of what goes on with me? I mean, you pay attention. And I swear, you got the sweetest cock. Sometimes it's like it's talkin' to me when you're inside? Like it's got a voice all it's own. You get right on me.
You really are dangerously cute, honey. I gotta admit it.
What lesson do get outta that story, Lula?
It's just another case, Sailor.
What's that, peanut?
One person thinks he's doin' somethin' good and ever'body else gets upset about it.
Huh?
Ever imagine what it'd be like to get eaten alive by a wild beast? Sometimes I think it would be the biggest thrill?
My God, it better be, darlin', cause it'd be the last... What time is it?
Shhhhh... It's four o'clock... That woman's laugh the other day had somethin' to do with this feelin'?... Like bein' ripped apart by a gorilla, maybe... Grabbed sudden and pulled apart real quick by a real powerful one.
Lula, sometimes I gotta admit, you come up with some weird thoughts...
Anythin' interestin' in the world come out of somebody's weird thoughts, Sailor. You tell me Sailor, who could come up with shit like we're seein' these days?
You got me, peanut.
You certain?
I ain't never met anyone come close to you, sugar.
Recall the time we was sittin' one night behind the Confederate soldier? Leanin' against it. And you took your hand and put it on your heart and you said, 'You feel it beatin' in there, Lula?... Get used to it, 'cause it belongs to you now.' D'you recall that?
I do.
I was hopin' you would. I know that night by heart. Sometimes, honey? I think it's the best night of my life.
I really do think it's the best night of my life.
We didn't do nothin' special I can remember. Just talked, is all.
Talkin's good. Long as you got the other? I'm a big believer in talkin', case you ain't noticed.
Too bad they don't give an award for talkin'... You'd win first prize. Especially with those tits.
You think so, baby? Does my talkin' bother you, honey?
No, I like gettin' up around four a.m. and talkin' bout wild animals... Though you woke me up this time in the middle of a dream. I kinda wish I didn't remember it. Up at Pee Dee, I couldn't remember any of my dreams.
What was this one?
It wasn't no fun, Lula. The wind was blowin' superhard and I wasn't dressed warm. Only instead of freezin', I was sweatin' strong.
The water was rollin' off me. And I was dirty, too, like I hadn't had no bath in a long time, so the sweat was black almost.
Boy, sweetie, this is weird, okay.
I know. I kept walkin', I headed for your house, only it wasn't your house, really. You let me in only you weren't real pleased to see me. You kept askin', 'Why'd you come to see me now? Why now?' Like it'd been a long time since we'd seen each other.
Oh, baby, what an idea. I'd always be happy to see you, no matter what.
I know, peanut. But it wasn't all like you were so unhappy I was there, just you were upset. My bein' there was upsettin' to you. You had some kids there, little kids, and I guess you'd got married and your husband was comin' home any minute.
Sometimes dreams just don't mean nothin'... Stuff comes into your mind and you don't have no control over, you know? Anyways, dreams ain't no odder than real life. Sometimes not by half.
Well, I ain't upset about it, darlin'. Just give me an odd feelin' there a minute, is all.
Let's get outta here... I suddenly got a funny feelin' about this place. Feelin' all that voodoo...
Gotta hex from a voodoo?
Who do?
You do.
Oh my God... It's Johnnie... Duck down!... Get goin'!
Where?
Never mind where... Get outta here... I mean it, Sailor.
I'm goin'.
You think he saw us?
Who knows, baby?
He was sittin' there havin' a beignet at the Cafe Du Monde. Do you think he saw us?
Lula, darlin'... Makes no difference anyway... We're outta here.
Sure you wanna do this? Might be a way they could track us.
He's just a regular guy't needs help, honey. Look at him.
You don't feel you was a little hard on the guy, honey?
I know you're thinkin' that I got more'n some of my mama in me? Well, I couldn't help it. Sailor, I really couldn't. I'm sorry for that guy, but when he pulled that drippin' hunk of awfulsmellin' meat out of his pocket? I near barfed. And them poor diseased puppies!
Just part of life on the road, peanut.
Do me a favor, Sailor? Don't pick up no more hitchers, okay?
I wouldn't mind a little night life. How about you?
Hard to tell what's shakin' in a place like this, honey. You don't want to be walkin' in the wrong door.
Maybe there's a place we could hear some music. I feel like dancin'. We could ask someone.
You ready for this?
We'll find out in a hurry.
I'll be damned if I'm leavin'. That band is too good?
Uh huh.
You notice that woman when we come in? The white woman sittin' by herself?
Yeah.
Well, she ain't talked to nobody and ain't nobody spoke to her that I could tell. What you make of that?
Honey, we bein' strangers here and all, this is the kinda place we don't want to make nothin' of nothin'.
You think she's pretty?
What's wrong, sweetheart? Somethin' botherin' you?
Mama. I been thinkin' about her. She's prob'ly worried to death by now.
More'n likely.
I want to call her and tell her I'm okay. That we're okay.
I ain't so sure it's a great idea, but that's up to you. Just don't tell her where we are.
Pardon me? Y'all got a phone here I can use?
I was just wastin' time, peanut, till you come back.
It's me who's wastin' time, Sailor, bein' with you.
Honey, I'm sorry. It wasn't nothin'. Come on and get up and we'll take off.
Leave me be for a minute? Mama gets all insane and then I see you practicin' your individuality and personal freedom with some oiltown tramp. How you figure I'm gonna feel?
Told you not to call your mama.
How much we got left, honey?
Under a hundred.
You want to stick around here, Sailor? See if we can get some work?
Not in Houston. We'd be better off in some place more out of the way.
You want me to drive for a stretch? Give you a chance to rest.
That'd be good, Lula.
What's that, peanut?
I can't take no more of this radio... I ain't never heard so much concentrated weirdness in my life, Sailor Ripley, you find me some dancin' music right this minute... I MEAN IT!!
The world's gettin' worse, I think, Sailor. And it don't sound like there's much we can do about it, neither.
This ain't news, sweetheart. I hate to tell ya.
Sure is a big deal round here... Alamo Road, Alamo Street, Alamo Square, Alamo Buildin', Alamo Alamo. They ain't forgettin' about it in a hurry. That's the thing 'bout memory? Some things you wish you could forget... What's troublin' you, sugar?
You know, Lula, I never told you what all I was doin' before I met you.
I just figured you was out bein' Mr. Cool...
Not exactly, sugar... One reason we're in all the trouble we're in right now is cause of what I was doin'... I tried to tell you this before...
You're scarin' me, baby.
Well, there's a good side as well as a bad side to it... The good side is I knew your daddy, and I thought Clyde was a good ol' guy...
You knew my daddy?
Yes I did... I sure did... The bad side of it is I did some drivin' for a man named Marcello Santos...
Oh shit...
I quit workin' for 'im, but just before I did, I ended up one night at a house... I don't know what it is they all think I saw that night, but I was just sittin' out in the car till the whole place went up in flames.
God, Sailor... That's the night my daddy died.
I know, sugar... But while the place was burnin'... Before Santos came out  I pitched some rocks at the second floor windows case anyone was upstairs sleepin'... Afterwards... When I met you, I always liked to think I mighta saved your life.
That's some big secret you been carryin', Sailor.
We all got a secret side, baby. Hope you don't think I been lyin' to you 'bout other things, sugar.
How'd you know my daddy?
Met him through Santos... Clyde  your daddy  had some sorta business deal with Santos.
Lula, you there?
Yeah, I'm here.
You upset with me?
No, Sailor darlin'. Just shockin' sometimes when things aren't the way you thought they were... I been carryin' a secret too...
That night in the fire while my daddy was dyin'... I saw mama up in her room with Santos...
...They was laughin' arm in arm like animals.
I didn't want to say it... but I had a feelin' Santos was up to somethin' with your mama...
My mama... So Sailor, our histories have been somewhat intertwined.
They have, sugar.
I take that as a sign that we were destined by fate to be together.
It's a comfortin' idea.
Well, we're really out in the middle of it now, ain't we?
There's worse places, honey.
If you say so.
Trust me on it.
I do trust you, Sailor. Like I ain't never trusted nobody before.
We'll be alright, peanut, long as we've got room to move.
What's that?
I don't know... Looks like clothes.
Oh God, Sailor.
One bad car accident...
SAILOR!!!
Sailor, what are we gonna do?
I don't know, honey, but we gotta help that girl  get her to a town and hope no one catches on I broke parole.
Let's get ahold a' her quick.
You think she's gonna make it?
Don't know, but she's gonna bleed all over our car, I'll tell ya that... Hey... Hello... Girl... You gotta come with us, honey.
I can't take this, Sailor. She's dyin' right in front of our eyes...
I'm afraid she is, baby.
She died right in front of me. Why'd she have to go and do that, Sailor?
Let's get outta here, honey.
Well, it ain't exactly Emerald City...
Not quite as bad as the weather though... It must be a hundred and ten and it ain't even noon yet.
Not bad for eleven dollars a day.
No radio or TV...
And no AC.
Fan works.
Now what?
Let's get a sandwich and find out about some work.
Sailor?
Yeah?
This ain't exactly my most thrillin' notion of startin' a new life.
I'm gonna stay here in this room, Sailor. I don't feel so good? This heat makes me tired.
Okay, honey, I'll see you later.
That you, Sail, honey?
The only one.
You find any work?
Maybe. Met a guy named Red, owns a garage, could have some work in about a week. Met a few hard luck boys who's stayin' here. What's that smell?
I barfed. Tried to make it to the bathroom... Turned out it was the wrong door anyways... I sorta got it cleaned up.
You sick?
A little, I think... Darlin'?
Yeah?
Come sit by me.
Darlin', I still ain't feelin' so well. I'm goin' to bed.
I'll come along.
Anything I can do for you?
No, I don't think so, Sail. I just need to lie down.
Sailor? You know what?
I know you ain't particularly pleased bein' here.
Not that. Look at what I wrote down cause I can't say it.
It's okay by me, peanut.
Well, nothin' personal, but I ain't sure it's okay by me.
Really, Sailor, it ain't nothin' against you. I love you.
Love you, too.
I know. Just I'm sorta uncomfortable about the way some things is goin', and this don't help soothe me.
I know this ain't easy, Lula, but I ain't gonna let things get no worse, I promise.
You been drinkin', huh?
Few beers is all. Feelin' any better?
Can't tell yet. Where'd you go?
That smell's still fillin' this room good.
Buddy and Sparky come by earlier.
And Bobby too, I hear...
Yeah... He was lookin' for you.
You talk to 'im some?...
Some... Sparky said Red's promised to have him and Buddy out of here by the weekend.
Oughta make 'em happy.
So where'd you say you was?
Went with Bobby.
Sail?
Uhhuh?
Let's leave here.
We're goin' to, Lula, real soon.
I mean tomorrow.
We got about forty bucks, sweetheart. That'd get us to El Paso.
Rather be in El Paso than Big Tuna.
Who says I'm smart? You up to somethin' with Bobby Peru, Sailor?
What could I be up to, Lula?
He's a stone fuckin' criminal, honey, and you ain't.
I killed Bob Ray Lemon, didn't I?
That was a accident. I bet both our asses Bobby Peru done murdered all kinds of people, and meant it, too.
That was in Vietnam.
He's the kind liked it.
Lula, I got to get some sleep.
Buddy told me about that thing at Cao Ben?
What?
Was a massacre. Soldiers there murdered old folks, women and babies, and dumped 'em in a trench. Bobby Peru prob'ly killed the most.
Lula, he mighta did, I don't know. But it don't matter now. Lotta guys go outta control in a war and it ain't their fault.
That man's a black angel, Sailor. You hook up with him, you'll regret it. If you live to.
Thanks, darlin', I know you got my best interest in mind, and I 'preciate it sincerely. I love you, but I gotta sleep now.
You must be my son.
Shake hands with your daddy.
You hungry? Pace and I ain't had dinner yet.
Lead the way.
I'm sorry, Sailor. I just can't help it. Give me a minute and I'll quit.
Boys frightened, Lula. This ain't no good.
Really, Sail, I'll be okay.
It's a mistake, honey. You two go on. I'll walk back to the depot.
What're you talkin' about? That's your son in there.
He ain't never known me, Lula, so there ain't much for him to forget. Not seein' each other for six years makes it next best to simple for us, too.
How can you say that, Sailor?
What makes sense, is all.
LULA!!!!
SAILOR!!!!
Don't give me no trouble now, Pace, please. This ain't the easiest day in a long time. And what do you mean how are we gonna know what your daddy looks like? You seen his photo.
How'll he know what we look like? He seen our photo?
Damn it, child! Now look what you made me do.
What I made you do, mama?
Nothin', honey. Mama's just actin' strange.
You ain't actin', mama.
Why, Pace Roscoe Ripley, ain't you got one cute mouth tonight?
I still ain't sure what my daddy looks like.
Like you, sweetheart. You and your daddy got the same mouth, eyes, ears, and nose. Only difference is your color hair is like mine.
My daddy ain't never killed nobody, has he, mama?
Course he ain't never killed nobody. Why'd you say that, Pace?
Heard grandpa Santos and grandmama talkin'.
And?
Grandmama said how Sailor murdered a man.
Wrong, baby. Your daddy never committed no murder. Musta been you didn't hear grandmama proper. He made some mistakes, is all. Your daddy ain't always been so lucky... We're almost at the depot, honey. Sit back a minute.
Why we sittin' here, mama?
Thinkin' a second, baby.
I'm scared, mama.
Why, honey?
Case daddy don't like me. What if he don't like that I don't got his color hair.
Pace, your daddy'd love you even if you didn't have no hair at all.
I knew this would happen. Soon as that piece of filth got out of Pee Dee, I knew there'd be trouble. He's just got some kind of influence over her I can't decipher. There's somethin' wild in Lula I don't know where it comes from. You gotta find 'em, Johnnie.
He served his time for what he did. Another thing... If Lula went with him of her own volition  willingly, that is  there ain't much can be done about it.
Don't talk down to me, Johnnie Farragut. I know what volition means, and that's why I want Sailor Ripley off the planet! He's pure slime and it's leakin' all over my baby. Maybe you could push him into makin' some kinda move and then kill him dead. You'd only be defendin' yourself, and with his record, nobody'd fuss.
I'll hire a hit man if you don't want to help me stop this thing. I'll call Marcello Santos.
Now, Marietta, I am goin' to help you. And don't be gettin' carried away. You don't want to be bringin' Santos and his people into it.
You're just jealous of Santos cause he's sweet on me.
Darlin', you ain't seein' Santos again, are ya?
Oh, Johnnie Farragut... Don't you trust your very own Marietta?
Sorry, sweetheart. Bein' in love with you like I am brings out that ugly jealous side.
Well stop worryin' about me and start worryin' about how you're gonna get that Lula back here and away from that murderer.
Sailor ain't a murderer. You got to get off that kick. And far's I can tell, Sailor was entire clean prior to that involvin' Lula. Even there he was protectin' her. You oughta be thankin' him for that. That Bob Ray Lemon they say was comin' after the both of 'em. Why am I tellin' you this, you was around that night. You ought to know just exactly what happened. Sailor just got a little too forceful is all... You remember that night...
Maybe I was there, but I didn't see anythin'. All I know's that trash killed a man with his bare hands. Hands which are now prob'ly all over my baby!
Marietta, settle down now darlin'... I want what's best for her, too  like I said, I'll do what I can to bring her home.
No, Marietta, I haven't found 'em.
This is the kinda mistake can take a Hindu's lifetime to unfix... You better get a move on, Johnnie, before that boy got her holdin' down a Memphis streetcorner and shootin' dope up her arms.
Really, Marietta, you got more scenarios swimmin' around in your brain than Carter got pills. Try to take it easy. Go over to Myrtle Beach for a few days.
I'm stayin' right here by the phone until you find Lula, then I'm comin' to get her. You call soon's you got somethin', even if it's three in the a.m.
I will, Marietta. Goodbye now.
I got some news, Marietta. Lula and Sailor been here. They checked out of the Hotel Brazil on Frechman Street yesterday.
Listen, Johnnie, Lula just called me. She knew you were in N.O., so they left the city.
Did she tell you where she was callin' from?
No, but my guess is they're headed west, so prob'ly Texas. Their money must be runnin' low. I don't think Sailor had much to begin with, if any, and Lula took the six hundred she had saved in the Cherokee Thrift.
How'd she sound? Was she doin' okay?
Could she be doin' okay, Johnnie? She's tryin' to prove somethin' to me, that's all. Lula ain't doin' no more'n showin' off, defyin' me... Johnnie, I've done somethin' bad...
What?
I won't tell you over the phone. I'm comin' to N.O. and I'll tell you then.
Marietta, I was just gonna leave and see if I could pick up their trail.
No, you wait right there for me... I'll be on the Piedmont flight tomorrow at seven. Meet me at the airport.
I'll meet you, Marietta, if that's what you want, but I'm against it.
Seven tomorrow evenin'. We can eat at Galatoire's. Fix it.
Who was that?... Who know's your here?
I'll be damned if that wasn't a wrong number?
What is it, Johnnie?
Just some guys I met here... I keep seein' 'em... Now tell me...
Johnnie, I can't tell you, honey. Is there anyway we can get on the road tonight? We've got to find them kids.
Somethin' was upsettin' you bad last night, and you wanted to tell me and I figured you wanted to tell me so's I could help...
I did, honey, but that was last night... Let's just find those two kids before it's too late.
Honey, I have to ask you this... Is Santos involved in any of this?
Hell no, baby... I wouldn'ta done that without tellin' you.
That bastard Pucinski...
Who?... Uncle Pooch?...
Yeah... The one that introduced Santos to you and Clyde.
Johnnie... That's the past... We gotta get on to our future, sugar!
All I have to do is grab my suitcase, and I'm ready. You're lucky cause I happen to love night drivin'.
Let's head for Texas and see if we can pick up the trail.
Did I tell ya it's great to see ya again?
This 'bout the fifth time?
I'll pack my things and meet you downstairs.
And to think what coulda happened in that kingsized bed tonight...
You won't of missed much.
See ya downstairs.
You are from New Orleans, Senor Farragut?
Johnnie, please. Nope. Charlotte, North Carolina. Here on business.
Only that it's supposed to be a pretty poor sight since the hurricane came through last year.
Yes, that's so. But there is not much to destroy.
In what capacity?
In many capacities.
General Osvaldo Tamarindo y Ramirez. Telefono 666.
He is my sponsor. The General is the head of the secret police of Honduras.
Why are you in New Orleans? If you don't mind my askin'.
Certainly not. We are here only briefly, in fact, until this evening, when we fly to Austin, Texas to visit a friend of mine who is an agent for the CIA.
The same to you. If you are in Honduras, come to the Bay Islands and visit us. The Hondurans are great friends of the American people. But I have a joke for you before I go. If a liberal, a socialist, and a communist all jumped off the roof of the Empire State Building at the same time, which one of them would hit the ground first?
I couldn't say, which one?
Would you like to enjoy a martini with us?
Why not? How was the fishin'?
I think they are too serious, these American fishermen. In Honduras, we are not so concerned with the method.
Teddy Roosevelt, one of the local shrimp boat captains is in jail now. These people are friends of mine, so I must return and find out what happened.
This island of yours sounds like a kind of unpredictable place.
It has its moments of uncertainty.
Hasta siempre.
Hasta siempre.
Do you know how it came about that copper wire was invented in Scotland?
How's that?
Gotta admit, you guys are  two in four dozen.
The real joke is we never went fishing, but we're still fishing.
I forgot to show you this. The gentlemen that gave this to me said you'd recognize it. Said he wanted it'd be 'bout the last thing you ever saw in this life.
Oh God... OH GOD... Santos... Oh God Marietta... are you in on this?... OH GOD!!!
Are you going to provide me with an opportunity to prove my love to my girl? Or are you gonna save yourself some trouble and step up like a gentleman and apologize to her?
Don't fuck with me, man. You look like a clown in that stupid jacket.
This is a snakeskin jacket, and for me it's a symbol of my individuality and my belief in personal freedom.
...Asshole.
Come here.
I'm sorry to do this to ya here in front of a crowd, but I want ya to stand up and make a nice apology to my girl.
I'm sorry.
The Good Witch...
Sailor... Lula loves you.
But I'm a robber and a manslaughterer and I haven't had any parental guidance.
She's forgiven you of all these things... You love her... Don't be afraid, Sailor.
But I'm wild at heart.
If you are truly wild at heart, you'll fight for your dreams... Don't turn away from love, Sailor... Don't turn away from love... Don't turn away from love.
My name's George Kovich. Bet you've heard of me.
Don't know that I have... Should I know about you for anythin' in particular?
Was in all the papers three years ago. I'm seventysix, was only seventy three then. Had a business in Buffalo, New York, called Rats With Wings. Killed pigeons for anyone who wanted 'em killed.
If your neighbors didn't mind, how'd you get put out of business?
Woman drivin' down the street spotted me with on a roof with my rifle. She called the police and they came over and arrested me. Thought I was a sniper! Boys at the VFW loved that one. Cops didn't understand about the pigeons, the damage they do to personal property. I used to complain to the city but they never lifted a finger. I was gonna put out poison, but I was afraid somebody's cat would eat it. Hell, I had six cats myself. So I used the .22 because it didn't make much noise and the ammo was cheap.
What happened on the charges?
Guilty on a reduced charge. Hundred dollar fine and ordered to desist. Pigeons carry diseases and muss up the place. You seen it. Plain filth.
Mr. San Pedro Sula is from Honduras.
Do you know Honduras, Johnny?
Oh, many things...
Mr. San Pedro Sula's got an appliance shop.
But I am also with the government.
That is my permiso.
Mr. San Pedro Sula's permit to kill.
Only if necessary, of course, and only in my own country.
Mr. San Pedro Sula's authorized to carry a .45.
United States Marine issue, before they made the unfortunate switch to the less dependable nine millimeters. I have it here, in my briefcase.
He wants to take Mr. San Pedro Sula and me bass fishing.
We are in the same businesses and also we are fishermen.
Alright... By all means. Make yourselves at home.
Muchas gracias.
No big buildings like in New Orleans.
Whattaya do there?
I thought you two were in Austin, Texas. Or Takesus, as they say in these parts.
We were. Now Mr. San Pedro Sula and I are on our way back to Utila, in the morning.
So, it's back to the islands.
Yes. Mr. San Pedro Sula spoke yesterday to his son, Archibald Leach San Pedro Sula, who is named after Cary Grant, and he told them there was a shooting.
But how are you finding New Orleans, Senor Farragut?
Call me Johnnie... N.O. has always been a good town to sit around in.
Hey!!!... Johnnie Farragut. How are you, my man.
Real good, Chet... It's been awhile.
Everythin's relative. Where's that Marietta Pace Fortune? You two didn't split up, I hope.
No... She's fine. Back home.
What'll it be? The regular? Black Label?
Set one up.
So who you out sleuthin' for now?... Can I help ya?
Actually, I'm lookin' for Marietta's daughter, Lula. Her and 'er beau took off the other day. Marietta's real upset about it.
Hell, that rings a bell. Someone told me somebody lookin' like her was at the Nothin' Fancy yesterday.
Sounds right... I'll check it out.
You hitched yet?
No sir...
It's none of my business, but when are you and Marietta gonna tie the knot? I always wondered why you never did.
Not for lack of love, I can tell ya that.
That's what I mean... Always looked like you was just knocked out in love... Was real nice to see.
I'll tell ya though, it's comin' up to the time when Marietta and me might just set up house together and settle down... I think that time's comin' up right soon. But like you said, everythin's relative.
Gas?
Got enough, thanks. We're lookin' for a place has some music, where we can maybe do some dancin'  get somethin' to eat, too. Anything like that around here?
Mostly black though in that boogie place.
What's the name of it?
Club Zanzibar.
You say it's straight ahead a mile?
About. Where Lafitte crosses over Galvez Highway. State Road 86.
Thanks.
Nice of you to drop by.
Told ya I would. You still riled?
You still screwing sixteenyearolds in the ass?
Ain't never had no girl pull a blade on me.
Wish I'd fuckin' cut you up good.
You heard from Reggie?
Juana called. They're stayin' another week.
The cobra's waitin' to strike, chica.
That guy Sailor came around this afternoon... Asked me if there was a contract out on 'im.
No shit?!?! You know him?
Used to.
What'd you say?
No, of course.
That's right... Could have a bad accident, though... before... durin'... or after a holdup...
What's gonna happen when he sees me drivin' the car tomorrow?
Maybe he'll get a little nervous, but who gives a shit?
I'm from all over.
You was in the Marines, huh?
Need a hand?
Thanks, Bobby, 'bout done.
How 'bout a beer?
That'd be fine, Bobby.
Let's go by Rosarita's. You been there yet?
No, haven't heard of it.
Thought maybe Sparky and Buddy'd taken ya. Come on, I'll drive.
This your car?
Hell, no, belongs to my girl's sister. The sister's been over to New Orleans, lets us have it while she's gone. Where's that pretty little lady of yours today?
Restin' in our room. She ain't been feelin' well.
Sorry to hear it.
New Orleans, huh?... We was just there.
Thought you said this was a private club. How come I'm allowed in without bein' a member?
You black?
No.
You an indian?
No.
Then you're a member... Three or four millionaires in here right now.
They look like a bunch of good ol' boys to me. I guess it's oil money, huh?
Oil, gas, cattle, farmin'. Ain't nobody shows off around here. Iguana County's one of the richest in Texas.
Wouldn'ta guessed it, that's sure.
Ready for another?
Why not?
I been studyin' a situation over in Lobo, take two men to handle it.
What's that?
Feed store keeps up to five K in their safe. Need me a good boy for backup. Even split. You interested?
No... I don't think so, man.
Be easy, Sailor. There's two employees. I take one in the back to open the safe, you keep the other'n covered... You ain't plannin' on raisin' a fam'ly in Big Tuna, are ya?
Whattaya mean family?
Well... I mean like Lula bein' in a family way.
Lula tell you she's pregnant?
Couple grand or more'd give you two a leg up. Get you to the west coast, Mexico, most anyplace, with a few dollars in your jeans. I got it figured good, Sailor.
When did you talk to Lula?
Talked to her this afternoon... While you was out.
She really say she was pregnant?
Just took a guess is all... You in or out on this deal?
I ain't fuckin' sure, Bobby.
Don't think about it too long. You had enough?
Have now.
Come on outside, I got somethin' to show ya.
How much money you have between the two a'ya right now?...
Forty bucks...
This is easy money, pardner... No ones gonna get hurt in this thing... And I don't think you can afford not to take it... I'll be bringin' the Eldo 'round the front of the motel at ten tomorrow mornin'... If you ain't a pussy  you'll be there.
I don't particularly care for that kind of talk, Bobby.
Hey... I never said you was a pussy... Always figured you had the big ol' round balls for this kind'a thing... Sure would set you and that pretty little girl up good.
Yeah... yeah... I guess so... That kind'a money'd get us a long way down that yellow brick road...
...But DAMN man... This better go smooth.
Like takin' candy from a fuckin' baby...
What's she doin' here?
She's my girl... She's drivin'... That bother you?
Why should it?
That's right... Take one of these.
What is it?
Panty hose. Work better'n stockin's. Pull one of the legs down over your face and let the other leg trail behind your head. You get the pistol. Remember, soon as we get inside, you keep that bad boy up where those hicks can see it. Once they notice the Ithaca and the Smith, they'll know we ain't foolin' with 'em.
What's Cao Ben?
How old are you?
Twenty.
Hey, pretty woman... Sailor here?
No, he's out changin' the oil in the car.
Man, I gotta take a piss bad... Can I use your head there?
Well... Yeah  okay.
I don't mean your head head  I'm not gonna piss on your head  your hair an' all... Just piss in the toilet. Y'all take a listen  here a deep sound comin' down from Bobby Peru.
Hey... You gotta smell in this room of puke... You been pukin' in here, little girl? Huh?... You sick?... Pregnant?
You used the toilet, now you can go  what I do around here ain't any of your business, that's for sure.
You know, I really do like a woman with tits like yours that talks tough and acts like she can fuck like a bunny... Can you fuck like that?... You like it like a bunny?... Huh?... Cause baby, I'll fuck you like a real good like a big ol' jackrabbit bunny... Jump all around in that hole... Bobby Peru doesn't come up for air.
Get out.
Am I scarin' ya?... Your pussy wet?... Come on... is it?... Hey, don't jump back so slow... I thought you was a bunny... Bunny jump fast  you jump back slow... Mean somethin', don't it?... Means somethin' to me... Means you want Bobby Peru... You want Bobby Peru to fuck you hard baby  open you up like a Christmas present.
Bobby Peru grab you now... Hold you tight... Feel everythin' in you now... Stay quiet... Say "fuck me" and then I'll leave.
No way... GET OUT!!!
Say it!... I'LL TEAR YOUR FUCKIN' HEART OUT, GIRL... Say "fuck me" soft  then I'll leave. Say "fuck me"... Whisper it... Then I'll leave... Say it... Say it  Say it  Say it...
Whisper it... Whisper "fuck me"... Whisper... Whisper... Whisper... Whisper...
Fuck me.
Someday honey, I will... But I have to be goin' now... Conta i no joras...
Sorry, gentlemen. I'm 'most finished on my shoppin' here.
This be it?
Y'all take American Express?
Yessir.
Then lemme throw in a couple more things.
I'd just soon have a paper bag rather than a plastic one, if it's same to you.
We don't have no paper bags.
I can dig this music... But not that singer.
Why? He's right in the groove.
He's so ugly. Guys with beards and beer guts ain't quite my type.
Seein's how you're about as thick as a used string of unwaxed dental floss, don't know how you can criticize.
Yeah, well, if he says that all that flab turns into dick at midnight, he's a liar.
Meetin' him at the gate. That phone call this afternoon was the signal. My deranged mama's hid the keys to my car. But of course, I know exactly where they are.
I didn't hate me so much, I'd feel better wishin' you luck.
Can't all husbands be perfect, and your Elmo prob'ly wouldn'ta ever got that second one pregnant, you hadn't kicked his ass out.
So you're gonna be needin' the "blue bird" pretty soon?
Real soon... I'll be makin' the swap tomorrow, and thanks again, Beany.
Come in, Montgomery, Alabama.
Artie? That you, Artie?
Yes, ma'am. What's on your almost perfect mind this evening?
How ya feelin', Artie? I heard you wasn't doin' too well recent.
I'm fine, thank you. I had a cardiac infarction but I'm on a new diet and exercising regularly. I've never felt better.
Well, that's so good to hear, Artie. You know some of us depend on you down this way. You're so entertainin' and you get so many interestin' guests.
Thank you. It's listeners such as yourself who made me want to get up out of that hospital bed and back into the studio as fast as I could.
Soon as we ship it'll be "forgetta".
Don't mind him, Chucky. You're talking to a guy whose idea of big romance is a palm full of Vaseline.
Screw you, Valentino. I haven't seen you swapping spit with anybody.
Easy for you to say.
What's that supposed to mean?!
Everybody knows why she went over Tod. You jibed the boat.
I was trying to get her up wind! That's what you do when you're hit abeam. Or maybe you're too stupid to know that!
That's not what Skipper thought. He was trying to spill air from the main!
There are allegations questioning your competence with regard to the command of the Albatross. I have been instructed to convene a formal tribunal to determine whether or not negligence played a part in the sinking.
I understand.
May I ask you something?
How'd you manage to piss off a guy as powerful as Francis Boutillier?
It wasn't hard.
I used to helm a school ship. A long time ago.
The Coast Guard 'Eagle'. She never lost a race while you were Skipper.
The families... want your ticket. Turn it in, we forget the whole thing. Everybody goes home.
... Absolutely not.
The papers are going to eat you alive. Even if you beat it, you'll never get another commission. They want someone to be accountable.
I am accountable.
And you didn't do anything about it?
No. I didn't.
If this young man had responded instantly to your command, do you believe the ship might have been spared?
I don't know that anything could have prevented what happened.
Then what are you trying to say then?
Is it true that you forced Robin Weathers to climb the mast when it was clear that he was acrophobic.
He climbed when he was ready.
Were you aware that his brother was killed in a fall.
Sir, were you aware at any time of the use of alcohol among the crew.
Yes, I was.
No.
What makes you so sure it was one?
I can't be sure.
You really felt that your crew were up for the conditions.
We'd come twelve thousand miles together, through every kind of seas imaginable...
Except, a "White Squall". With all due respect Captain Sheldrake, they're only boys...
They are much more than that, sir.
Is it true that the reason you expelled Philip Boutillier...
For killing a dolphin.
... and that you invited him to strike you? To fight it out on the deck of your ship?!
Yes, that's true.
Do you think this is funny? Some kind of joke? You lost six people out there.
I don't think one second of this is funny, sir.
Yes.
Isn't also true that his vessel went down off of Nantucket? Lost everyone on board. In fair weather no less.
Swing up, son.
What?
Up you go. Right now.
What's it going to be?
I'm sorry...
Sorry won't cut it.
What are you blubbering about?
I don't know...
Don't look down. Look in my eyes! Climb! We'll do it together.
I can't.
You climb damn it, or so help me I'll haul you to the foretop by your diaper and leave you there!
Aaauuuhhh!!!
Are you hating this?! Are you!
I hate you, you son of a bitch!!!
No. Hate the fear inside of you! Climb like a man mister! Hate it! Hate it away. Hate your way up one more rung!! Do it right now!!
You're a day late. We keep a schedule aboard ship. Lives depend on it. Hello, Philip.
Sir.
Suicidal...
The first thing is I don't like people talking when I'm talking so the two of you, shut up.
Do you have something to say?
No.
Then keep your mouth shut.
No, sir.
Excellent. Bill, find Mr. Weathers a position to suit his condition.
Do me a favor and tell Bill once she's dogged down I want everyone to break out their slickers and make sure their gear is stowed or we'll spend the next week sorting underwear. Lawford, Bill, Mike, John, and Phil will stand the watch. Everyone else hit the racks.
I'm not staying out here.
I have arranged to host a good will cruise for the Dutch students of the local school there.
Joy, rapture...
Each one of you will be responsible for one student. I'll expect you to be courteous. You represent this school and your country. We'll sail in the morning.
I'm not gonna kill it.
You already have. Now go on. Do it.
How long you been standing there?
Long enough.
What are we supposed to talk about?
You've gotta be kidding?
But, they don't speak English.
There are some things that everybody does in the same language.
Phil. What are you doing?
Fandango, Junior. I'm gonna do some limbo baby!!
No way Phil. Not like this.
Roger Meris, steps up, it's a corker down the pipe...
It's outta here!
Come on man. Let's just talk about it.
I don't know. We gotta get 'im outta here before Skipper sees him like this.
Son of a bitch!!
You gotta be kidding? He's a human chum line!
No self respecting shark is gonna take a bite out of you.
They're waving... handkerchiefs or something.
What?
Fuck off man. It's just a fish.
No, Phil. It's a mammal.
You're the one who doesn't care, Phil.
It hurts too much to care.
About yourself?
About anything.
Well, that was neighborly.
He didn't get to be Under Secretary of the Air Force by being neighborly.
What's wrong Mr. Lawford.
It seems we're short on singers.
Tie it off!!
Outer.
What do you think?
Barometer's dropping. The first blow'll come from the south. Might get interesting.
We've got a problem.
What's that?
Terry left his passport in Curacao. We could hide him...
No. Bring him on deck with the others.
If he's a Cuban, Castro wears a dress.
Nobody aboard my ship is going anywhere.
I don't.
You will if you wanna eat. Right George?
That's not a satisfactory answer.
Look, save it for somebody else will ya. This ancient shit doesn't have anything to do with me.
Much have I traveled in realms of gold/ And many goodly states and kingdoms seen/ Round many western islands have I been/ Which bards in fealty to Apollo hold/ Oft of one wide expanse had I been told/ That deepbrowed Homer ruled as his demesne.
You know what he is talking about here?
This isn't just a story!! It's history made allegory. It is a philosophical handbook for life! It holds the secret of this very voyage.
What is it... the secret?
What?
If it were only that simple, my young friend. Read on, gentlemen. Read on.
The rust won't wait for you to read Conrad, Goodall.
Then he shouldn't have written such a long poem, Mr. Lawford.
Read on, young John. Read on. College boards are coming.
What's your problem?
Why'd you jump?
Because I felt like it. What do you care?
I couldn't do it.
Well, as soon as you grow some balls, let me know.
Don't ever call me stupid.
Come on, he didn't mean anything.
I'll read it. I mean I don't mind.
Shut up donut.
If you've got "a broad" available I'll take her.
Like you'd know what to do with one.
How would you know?
Trust me donut. I know.
What? Come on...
On the dog watch, night after the storm, I look down into the skylight above Skipper's cabin and there she was, peelin' down.
Damn, Porkchop, you sound just like a guy who ain't never seen a pair.
I've seen 'em. I've seen 'em.
They tell you that?
I figured it out.
It matters to me.
Okay donut. Whatever you say.
Why, man?
I don't have to listen to this.
Oh Jesus, oh Jesus. Man I knew we shouldn't have gone. I tried to tell you. I tried to tell you. You guys made me come! You made me come!!
Will you shut up? You sound like my fucking sister.
Yeah, well you're really gonna have some bad dreams if we find out you didn't.
That's enough.
How the hell are we gonna get outta here?
We'll think of something.
Oh, praise the lord. Relax everybody. Everything is under control. The jug head's going to think of something.
Hell, they even kicked me outa vo tech 'cause I couldn't read a slide rule.
I can show you how to use a slide rule.
Me, too.
Why would you do that?
Jesus! What the hell happened to him.
Lemme go! Lemme go!!
I think you were too hard on Weathers.
You do?
Yes. I do.
I need to know what I'm working with; what their boundaries are. Their lives depend on it, and for that matter so does yours. We've got to bring them together. Make them a crew. We're as strong as our weakest link and I don't want to find that out the hard way. So, I will challenge them and they will come together.
Yes sir.
You know the best thing about being a Skipper is the worst thing. It's all my responsibility. So I'll tell you what George, you stay off of my bridge, and I'll stay out of your galley. We'll get along that way.
What?! What's happening?!!
You're officer of the watch, George.
I'm sorry, Skip. It's this damned book. Lawford gave it to me.
Sonofabitch.
We're short one long boat too. Come on.
I guess we know what the next acquisition for the galley is going to be...
What's that?
A padlock.
Immortality.
Spirits have a way of bringing that out.
And being sixteen.
They're in a hurry to grow up. They don't know about consequences or responsibility. That's being sixteen too. I promise you one thing...
What's that?
They'll know about it in the morning.
Jesus. She's got guns.
She's Cuban.
They think we're carrying Cuban refugees. Skipper, they mean to board us.
Not a chance. Remind them that according to the Geneva Convention, firing on a civilian vessel on the high sea is an act of war.
What's wrong, you don't like steak?
I should be eating with the crew.
Humor me. Eat it anyway.
Why are you here?
Spying?!
I can take care of myself.
Oh, really?
Look, you put me on this boat in the first place. I didn't want to come but I did. Why do you have to embarrass me. Why can't you just leave me alone?
Listen to me, you thankless little prick. We're your parents, so don't you dare talk to me disrespectfully. What the hell is it, this captain? Because I'll see him in a rowboat...
It has nothing to do with him.
Well, what does it have to do with? Us?
No. Look, it's me okay? Can't it just be about me? For once?
Who is it Philip?
It's okay. I'll be in, in a minute. Look, what do you want?
Albatross? Doesn't inspire a lot of confidence.
Oh, on the contrary, the Albatross is considered a very good omen. It is said they embody the spirits of sailors passed on. It's very bad luck if you kill one. And dolphins too.
I'm Francis Boutillier. This is my son, Philip.
I know.
Your cable said you wouldn't be putting out until midOctober.
As you can see, there's a lot to do.
Indentured servitude is not what my son had in mind.
This is a working ship. Promptness is not a luxury, it's a necessity, as is the work to maintain her. Had we been ready, I can assure you we would have sailed.
And I would have expected compensation for my time and expense coming all the way down here.
Happily, it all worked out... This time. Bill, take Philip below and help him find a bunk.
I'll be frank with you. This was his mother's idea. A romp through the Caribbean on a sailboat sounds more like a vacation than an education if you ask me.
It will be more than that, I can promise you.
Take good care of my son.
We'll do our best. You're welcome to say goodbye.
He's a big boy.
Well, we thought we'd drop in and see if you were all still in one piece.
And, of course, we are.
Well, you never can tell these days, can you?
What is it we can do for you today?
Well, we've come to give our boy a little break from the monotony.
Why didn't you turn hard to port as the wind hit?
I thought we'd have a better chance if I headed into the wind so we could spill air from our sails.
But the Captain ordered you hard to starboard.
Twice.
Is that what you were trained to do?
No.
Then what do you think he was trying to do.
Let the blow drive the boat down wind. Neutralize our canvas.
So when the captain gave you an order contrary to your training, you thought he was making a mistake?
No.
Chicken is a fool's game captain.
So is violating international law.
But you invited is aboard.
Your cannons made a compelling argument.
Stow away?
He left his passport in Curacao. It's being mailed to Panama.
That is unfortunate. We'll have to take him with us.
Hold her steady into the wind. Southwest by west.
Yes sir.
Gentleman, when you hear an order, sing out. I want to know that you've heard and understand. Raise the mainsail.
Ah... Northeast... sir.
Speak up boy!
Northeast sir!
Unfurl the squares!
Yes, sir.
All stop on the engine.
You all right?
It was my fault. I slipped.
Remember something, sooner or later... we all have to face it.
Face what?
Uh, huh.
Would you, um, say it's a big storm?
Sometimes it gets exciting out here.
Shouldn't we turn away?
You can't run from the wind son. You trim your sails, face the music and let the chips fall. Bill, let's close her up, dog, tight.
What's on your mind?
I'm here on behalf of the crew, sir.
Well, spit it out.
The fact is... We'd like you to give Phil another chance.
Can't do it.
Sir...?
Close the door. Sit down.
Why do you think I'm sending him home?
He killed the dolphin.
The Dolphin was a symptom.
Of what?
Of a fight he can't win out here.
It's his father sir. He's suffocating him. We've all seen it...
I mean he has all these expectations and he doesn't even know who his own kid is. What right did then have to show up here?
They have every right Chuck.
They send us because they want us to change, or grow up or something and then they try to keep us the same.
Does Phil know how you guys feel?
I don't know.
You should tell him. That's something he can take with him.
What the hell is going on?
Maybe it's an air raid.
Jesus.
I can't watch this.
How ya doing?
Fine.
Good.
Look, I appreciate, you know, the concern and all, but like he said, I can take care of myself.
I just brought you something to eat.
I feel like I got you into this.
Forget it.
I'm used to spending a lot of time alone. I guess that's what I thought it would be out here. But, it's not is it?
I'm sorry I left you hanging up there.
It doesn't matter. Really. I'm just sorry you got chewed out.
You think Skipper and Alice do it?
Do what?
Ya know... "It".
That's like wondering if your mom and dad do it. Who wants to know?
No way!
Come on man, what'd they look like?
So... What happened?
My mother says in this really low, but very awake kind of voice "What?"
What'd you do?
I said "Sorry, wrong room" and walked away.
My parents don't do it anymore.
How do you know? They might.
'Cause they're getting a divorce. That's why they sent me here. My sister's at Tabor. They just wanted us out of the house so they could get down to business.
Where are you from any way?
Depths of hell... Ohio. How 'bout you?
Kennet Square, PA. 'Mushroom capital of the world'.
It was so real...
Here's the thing; whenever you're having a nightmare, all you have to do is say 123 wake up! You'll be out of it. You'll wake up.
Who told you that?
My dad.
It works?
Swear to God. Only good advice he ever gave me. Now, go back to sleep.
That's how he died you know.
Who?
My brother. He fell out of the old beech tree. Broke his neck. I was on a camp out. They started going at it, throwin' things, a real knock down... They didn't find him 'till the next morning. They didn't even know why he was up there.
Jesus, you never told them?
I couldn't.
What are they doing?
I can't make it out?
I can't go in there.
What are you talking about.
Honey, did you know that the Albatross was captured by the Germans during World War II?
No, I didn't.
It says she was originally Schooner rigged, but Captain Sheldrake turned her into a brigantine. I think square rigs look so much more romantic.
Me too.
Do you have your ticket?
Yes.
Passport?
Look, I just better go.
Goodbye Mom. I'll be okay.
I know you will.
Sorry to here it.
Well, and it's pretty cool too, ya know? Bein' here together an all...
Listen man, I think I have a problem.
We all have problems.
I'm pissin' fire man.
You taking the order wouldn't have changed anything.
They don't know that. We were the only one's on deck. Look, there's nothing they can do to me right? I'm a kid.
But that's not the point...
That is the point... And Skipper'll slip off the hook.
Hey, shut up will ya?
It was a bad dream...
God damn it man. I think he broke my nose!
Shut up, Phil.
Yeah, but how are you supposed to make the first move?
Like this!
Why'd you do it?
What's the difference?
You only hurt yourself you know?
Like you really care. Like any of you give a shit what happens to me.
Can we talk?
I guess.
Everybody's saying this whole tribunal is happening because of your father. Because of you.
Well that's just typical isn't it?
Is it true Phil?
I gotta go.
You weren't there, you don't know what happened.
I know enough.
You gonna jump? Or are you just having a last look?
I was just thinking that I never had a new pair of shoes till I was twelve.
It's no my fault I was born first. Besides, nobody ever sent me on an eight month vacation, so ease up on the sad sack stuff.
It's not a vacation, it's private school.
I thought this was your dream come true.
That's not why he's sending me.
Why then.
Because it looks good.
I'm just not like you. Ya know? I'm never going to go to Yale. I'm never going to be "William".
Nobody says you have to be like me.
He does.
You don't give him enough credit Chas.
She isn't that old.
What do you mean?
I mean she looks pretty damn good in her alltogether for being thirty.
I walked in on my parents one time. It was only like eight o'clock and they were in bed and I thought that was kinda weird so I just walked in.
That's what they get for not locking the door.
So I'm standing there and you could hear a pin drop. No breathing or snoring... Suddenly it hits me that somethin' was goin' on that just stopped, really fast, like people are holding their breath.
Yeah.
My old man split along time ago. It doesn't mean anything. You just take care of number one that's all that matters.
Where you going?
To take a piss.
Yeah, that's right. You wanna come in and shake it for me?
If you're gonna cheat, you might as well copy off somebody who's gonna get the answer right.
You've gotta be kidding. Get the fuck outta my way!
I cheated to get on the boat!!! All right?!
What?
I doctored my grades so I'd make the cut. I'm a moron, okay? You satisfied?!
You're not a moron.
Wanna bet? Takes me half a day to get through one chapter of Lawford and I still don't have any idea what the hell he's talkin' about. You know why it takes me so long to write papers? because I can't spell. While everybody else is sleeping, I'm in the rack with a flashlight and a dictionary.
They were gonna put me into special ed this year. I stole a copy of my transcript, changed all the grades. Shit, who am I kidding. I'll never pass the boards.
Listen, you don't cheat, and we'll make sure you get the grades. We'll start a private study group. Nobody knows. You'll ace that test.
Bregitta. Do you believe it?
Believe what?
Her name. Bregitta. It's poetry.
You okay?
Yeah. How'd you do.
Ninetysix.
Congratulations.
What about you?
It's a ninetyone! It's an 'A'!
I know.
You know? Then why are you up here looking like you're about to jump overboard?!
I just can't believe it.
This is your moment, don't you see? The instant when you know that your life is never going to be the same again. When you stand up and are counted.
I couldn't have done it without you.
Yes you could. You did. This is all you. Nobody else.
Feels different doesn't it?
What?
That we're going back. I don't want it to end. I don't want to be what I was when I left.
What was that?
Anonymous.
I've been getting ninetysixes my whole life. It's what they expect. After all this, I still haven't figured it out.
Figured what out?
Who I am, outside of this boat. What the hell I'm doing here.
I'll tell you who you are. You're the glue. You're the thing that holds everybody around you together. You're strong, you listen and you see things in people the rest of us can't. It's a gift.
You know, I never had friends like this.
Me either.
I feel like... we can do anything.
Albatross?
Yeah.
Rick March. Who the hell are you?
Gieg, Chuck.
Look, meet us out front when you're through. If they try to take anything away from you like Johnny Quest up there, just make a list and we'll have 'em send it down to the boat.
Whatever.
What the "Bowsprit Affair"?
Well, Romeo here was on harbor watch and managed to sweet talk one of the local girls to have a go in the bowsprit.
Make us proud.
Yes sir.
Where's Mom?
I couldn't bring her down here until I knew you were safe.
I thought we'd find a store, get you fixed up and then get you some lunch. That sound good?
Yeah, sure.
Why don't you go and try some of that on?
Okay.
Fine.
All right. I'm gonna wander over and look at some shoes...
When we were growing up I always felt like you would take care of things, that everything would be okay. But you can't make this okay, can you?
No, I can't.
Okay, here's the duty. Gieg, Weathers, Lapchick, Schucart: scrape and paint. Corry and Stricklin have the brass. Robinson, you're the Galley slave. March you're on chain gang with Barnes. Johnston, solo on bilge detail.
Butler, what'd I ever do to you?
You came back, Tod. You came back.
It didn't go over 'til I turned her starboard!
It was an act of God for Christ's sake.
There's still a way.
What do you mean?
It's me, don't you see. Terry's right, I'm the escape hatch. I disobeyed order.
Why didn't you drop any sail?
Skipper called us out of the rigging.
But your instinct was to lose sail?
My instinct was to not get electrocuted.
How old are you, son?
Fifteen.
Thank you.
Everyone aboard young Bill?
Yes, Sir.
Good. Let's go sailing.
We'll bear off to port and run down wind.
Mr. Lawford, stand by to ease the mainsheet. Rick, get on the jib sheet. George, John, Philip, Tim and Dick go aloft to unstop the forecourse. George will show you what to do. Tod, show your men the forward pinrail and stand ready on the buntlines and clewlines. Forecourse first... work upward.
Raise the inner jib! Raise the forestaysail!
Watch the telltales Chuck. If we jibe now we'll have a lot of people in the water.
Why wasn't I made aware of this Bill?
I didn't know sir.
It's your job to know. If something goes wrong up there, the other eighteen people aboard can't be wondering if he's gonna do his job or not.
Come in.
Skipper, uh, the crew is pretty much doing group boot over the side.
Well, that's all part of it.
We've got weather moving in from the west.
Everyone out of the rigging NOW!
Everybody down! ON THE DOUBLE!!
Carry on.
Yes sir.
North, northeast. And Dick, please make a note of our final position.
Oh I was walkin' down Lime street one day...
Hey! Weigh! Blow the man down...
A pretty young maiden she happened my way...
Give me some time to blow the man down...
So to all you sailors who've fought wind and whale...
Weight! Hey! Blow the man down...
She said "None the better, you all go to hell..."
Give me some time to Blow the man down!
Did we lose anybody?
Not yet.
That low passed through last night. May be a little bumpy out there.
It's time these boys saw some real blue water.
Looks like weather.
Yep.
He would have loved this.
Your father?
All his years at sea, he never stopped talking about these islands.
You miss him.
I'd have liked to have said goodbye.
He knows.
You sound so sure.
I am about this.
What?
He never would have believed a woman like you existed.
Do you remember the last time you and I danced under the stars?
Guilty.
On the deck of the Yankee, the night you asked me to marry you. We weren't much older than they are.
You may not like what you hear.
I can take it.
They've become what you wanted. They're a crew. That's why he came.
Why did we begin this?
We were idealists.
Because we believed we could make an impact out here. Self reliance and community through the disciplines of sailing.
I haven't forgotten.
Phil, he's not looking inside. He's just striking out at the world.
He has a lot of hurt inside him.
Well, he better learn to own it. Actions have consequences. It's not what happens here Alice, it's what they take away with them.
What are they doing?
Claiming their place in the world.
Yes?
Heather, this is Sara Risher over at New Line. How are you?
Oh, hi. I'm fine, Sara. My God, a voice from the past!
Really! Listen, Heather, I won't take but a minute of your time. It's just that we have something to propose to you, and wonder if you'd stop by the offices. Bob'd love to talk to you.
Uh...sure...when?
No time like the present. The car will bring you.
Now?
Just take a minute. You'll be glad you did, I bet.
Can I get you something to drink?
Coffee'd be nice.
Sounds good. Kim, would you get Heather and me a coffee? How you like it, Hon?
Black's fine.
Me too.
I don't know if it has, really. With the exception of One and Three, I've pretty much kept out of it. I'm working in television now. The hours let me spend more time with my husband and little boy.
Now that you have a child, is it possible you've decided horror is bad for children?
No, not really. I...
Do you let your child watch your movies?
My child? No...but...
Of course he is. Freddy's dead and gone.
And how about your costar in NIGHTMARE I. Would you trust him alone with your child?
Robert? I...
Maybe we should ask him, hmmm? We've got a surprised, Heather. A great big surprise for you and our audience.
I can tell you what the nightmares are about. They're about this...entity. Whatever you want to call it. It's old, very old, and it's taken different forms in different times. The only thing that stays the same about it is what it lives for.
What's that?
Killing innocence, one way or the other.
This is still a script we're talking about, right?
I think of it as sort of a nightmare in progress.
Then, in this nightmare in progress, does this thing have any weaknesses?
It can be captured, sometimes.
Captured? How?
By storytellers, of all things. Every so often, they imagine a story good enough to catch its essence. Then it's held prisoner for a while. In the story.
Like the Genie in the bottle.
Exactly. The problem comes when the story dies. It happens a lot of different ways, the story gets too familiar, or too watered down by people trying to make it easier to sell, or ti's labeled a threat to society and just plain banned. However it happens, when the story dies, the evil is set free.
You saying Freddy's this ancient thing?
Current version. For ten years he's been imprisoned as Freddy by the story of Nightmare on Elm Street. But now that the films have stopped The genie's out of the bottle, Heather, that's what the nightmares are about. That's what I'm writing.
If Freddy's loose, I mean, in your script, where's he going to go? Another age? Another form?
That's not what the dreams say he's doing.
Then what is he doing?
Well, see, he's gotten used to being Freddy now. And kinda likes it here in our time and space, too. So...he's trying to cross over, from film into our reality.
Isn't there anyone that can stop him?
Interestingly enough, in the dreams there is one person. A gatekeeper, so to speak. Someone Freddy's got to get by before he can enter our world. It's you, Heather.
Me? Why me?
Dramatically speaking it makes perfect sense. You played Nancy, after all, the first to humiliate and defeat him.
That was Nancy, not me!
But it was you that gave Nancy her strength. So to get out he has to come through you. And it's inevitable that he'll hit you at your most vulnerable points...
Dylan. And... Chase. My God, Wes, did you know?
Heather, it's just a movie, a dream, really...
You know damn well it's more than that now! How can we stop him?
The way to stop him is to make another movie. And I swear to you I'll stay at my computer and keep writing until I finish the script. But when that time comes... You're gonna have to make a choice.
Choice? What kind of choice?
Whether or not you're willing to play Nancy one last time.
Yeah, Julie, I'm sorry. I just thought...there was an earthquake, I think. Little one, but...
Big truck went right by before you opened the door. Life on the Fault Line.
Heather, what is it?
Dunno. Just have this feeling today...
I'll call the cops for you. You've got the number on the fridge, right?
Thanks. Just give them the time he called. They're keeping a list, supposedly. Sorry. My nerves are so raw these days.
'S okay.
No, Rex is not going to die. Julie, you know where the sewing stuff is, don't you?
Sure. We'll do an operation, Doctor Dylan and Doctor Julie. We'll fix him good as new.
No, I don't think that at all. How is he?
They wouldn't let me...
Studio B.
Hi. This is Heather Langenkamp.
The car's no there yet?
No. I...listen, I can't make it in today.
You're kidding, right?
I'm sorry, I can't.
Listen, dammit.
I just can't.
Heather Langenkamp?
Yes?
Is Chase Porter your husband?
Yes.
I'm afraid there was an accident. It appears he fell asleep while driving, ma'am.
I want to see the body.
No, you don't, ma'am, it's not necessary.
I want to see for myself.
What...happened?
Quake knocked you off your feet. You got bumped pretty good, actually.
I know what he's doing is bizarre, but most of the time he seems so normal, so well adjusted. I just can't believe it's him. I mean, and not something outside, influencing him. Or is that how denial works?
When it is denial. I don't think that's the case here, but if you're really worried, have a doctor check him out. You'll see, everything's fine.
You're not crazy, by the way.
Thinking I saw Freddy in the grave feels pretty crazy. And jumping in...
You didn't jump in.
That's my memory. And it seemed absolutely real.
Seemed, not was.
It's in my family, you know. My grandmother died in an institution...
Really? Hell, if having a screwy family made you crazy, the world'd be one colossal nuthouse.
I've never mentioned it to him.
Kids know when something's bugging a parent. You've got no idea who this is calling?
Freddy, for all I know.
Steady...
A man, or a boy with a deep, y'know, Freddy voice.
Six weeks of this, and you're surprised you've got Freddy in your dreams? Hell, Sonny Bono says after a while he was seeing his stalker everywhere. Even at Mass.
Really?
Absolutely. And how many times has Letterman called the cops thinking that woman was down in his kitchen again? It gets under your skin if you let it.
You really think Dylan's okay?
John Saxon. Do you have any idea what time it is?
John. It's Heather. I need help!
You got it. What's happening?
Dylan's run away from the hospital. I don't know whether he's wandering around or heading for the house. But I think Freddy's after him. I know it sounds crazy!
You're right. That sounds crazy!
John. Will you please just look for him around the hospital? I'm gonna go right to the house. Will you help me, John? Please!
Holy...
Where's Dylan?! Have you seen him?
I know how Chase really died.
What are you talking about?
Fred Krueger did it.
Yeah, sure.
You okay?
I'm fine.
Everything went great, I thought. We really got you, didn't we?
I don't know why you didn't tell me, that's all.
In what, a romantic comedy?
Just because it's a love story doesn't mean it can't have a decapitation or two.
Heather? You doing okay?
Holding my own. You know that guy who was calling me all the time? He's started again. He's been putting stuff in my mail.
Must've read about the funeral. Sick mother. That's the last thing you need right now, I'm sure.
It's actually been giving me Freddy nightmares.
Darker. More...evil?
Yeah...how'd you know?
Call it a guess...
Anyway, what I was calling about was...have you seen any of the script, by any chance?
Wes won't show it until it's finished. That's what he told me, at least. I asked him at the funeral.
When do you think it'll be done?
The way he's writing is so weird, who knows? I asked him how far he'd gotten at the funeral, and what was it he said...? Oh yeah, as far as Dylan trying to reach God. Weird, huh, that he'd have your kid in it?
no.
You have a fever, sweetie?
You going away?
Just for a few hours. Julie'll be with you.
Someone's coming.
What?
Dylan, I gotta go. Forgive me?
Bye.
Rex saved me.
Rex? Who's Rex?
"...as soon as the sun was up the witch made Gretel fetch the wood and kindle a fire. 'We will bake cookies first,' she said. 'I have heated the oven and kneaded the dough. Crawl in and see if the fire is blazing high enough now.' And she pushed Gretel toward the oven. The witch meant to shut the door and bake her once she was inside." Dylan, this is too violent. I don't know why you like these stupid old tales.
Finish, please!
This is going to give you nightmares.
I like this story.
Time for sleep.
Say how they find their way back home.
Tomorrow night.
No. Tonight. It's important!
"Then their father covered them with kisses and they were safe."
They were safe and could sleep.
Who?
The mean old man with the claws.
Okay, sweetie, night, night, sleep tight.
Don't let the bedbugs bite.
He's on his way.
He can follow the breadcrumbs, right?
Right.
Mommy's fine, Dylan. Just had a bad dream. What're you doing out of bed?
Rex woke me up. He was fighting.
Dylan, you go back to sleep now.
Not sleepy.
I can't sleep there, Mommy. Please!
You've got to sleep, Dylan, you...
In my bed.
Your bed?
Under my covers. Kids singing, and way down there, the man...the mean man...
And...what's the man doing?
Trying to get up...trying to get into our world.
Do you have to die to see God?
No, I don't think so. You just have to...pray, or reach...
Why does God let there be bad things?
I honestly don't know. Try to sleep, baby.
Can you come with me in my dreams?
Home.
Home, that's right.
You okay, champ?
Can we go get Rex, now? The bad man's getting awful close.
I know he is, sweetie. We'll both go get Rex right now.
Tell you what. I'm gonna go get Rex for you right now. You know home isn't far from here, right?
Right 'cross the freeway.
That's right. So I won't be long. Meanwhile Julie's gonna be right here with you.
Hurry back, please. I'm sleepy.
Promise. Cross my heart. But until Mommy gets back, Dylan, whatever you do, don't fall asleep.
You saw him, didn't you, Dylan!?
Coming for you...
Dylan, where's the man?
Here.
What...what is that?
A story?
Yes. It's a story. A story for a movie.
Read me some?
Any history of epilepsy in your family?
No.
Diabetes?
No.
Was there any trigger event? A trauma, shock or... You haven't shown him any of the films you make, have you? The horror stuff?
No...
Does he have to stay here over night?
Absolutely.
Like what?
Sometimes what a child says or fantasizes will give a clue to what ails him. Did he say anything while he was still lucid?
Ms. Langenkamp. I'm afraid there are no evening visiting hours in Intensive Care.
Is he all right?
Dylan? He's holding well. Earlier he had some problems, he's in an oxygen tent just now...
Oh my God...
If these had been a few inches nearer to the wrist... What did you say you cut yourself on?
It was an earthquake and it was dark. I have no idea.
These look quite fresh.
They are...it happened in tonight's quake. It happened just fifteen minutes ago. You must've felt it.
Doctor...
Get her back! I've got to go in! Get me a full anesthetic, STAT!
Ms. Langenkamp. I suggest you go home and get some rest. Your son is fine. He's been taken downstairs for further testing.
He was just here!
He was here. You fell asleep. We took him. You looked so exhausted, frankly, we didn't wake you. Besides, the young woman, Julie, is with him. Believe me, everything is fine.
Everything is not fine!
DO you mind...
Just a quick word, Ms. Langenkamp. For Dylan's sake.
I want my kid out of here now!
Very well. As soon as we gather the appropriate papers...
You don't understand. If Dylan falls asleep,then...
No way he's going anywhere. He's been well sedated.
He doesn't have to be awake to be on his feet.
What?
He sleepwalks, you idiot! He's fully capable of walking out of this hospital. Oh my God...He thinks I've gone home...
Might as well be, Dylan. State of the art animatronics enhanced with bio organic grafting. Bull tendons, nerve bundles from a Doberman, even half the brain of a homicidal primate was...
Chase...
Just an earthquake, Dylan. Every once in a while we get a few.
No biggie, really.
One of mom's cups got broken.
I'm sorry. At least we're in on piece.
Dylan, it's breakfast. Not arts and crafts What?
You get any sleep last night?
More or less. Dylan, time to get dressed. I'm late.
Anything other than the obvious bothering you?
Five earthquakes in three weeks is enough.
Hasn't been another call, has there?
Maybe. Or maybe I shouldn't do this interview today.
You've got to get back on the horse some time. Look, you've had a nutcase making harassing phone calls. I know how scary that feels.
No, you don't.
Okay, but it still doesn't mean it can't be over with.
What if it isn't over?
Maybe you should tell me your dream.
It was nothing. We were both working on some movie, and a special effects thing went horribly wrong. Terry and Chuck were...hurt. You were almost... You were even cut.
You probably were half awake and saw me get nicked by that picture glass. Dreams work like that. You want me not to go on this job?
Just be careful, okay?
I should survive two days in Palmdale supplying soap bubbles for a detergent commercial, don't you think?
Guess so.
48 hours. Back before you know it.
Heather?
Chase. Hi...
What's up?
Chase, you'd better come home.
Heather, I'm stuck here. Neither Chuck or Terry came in today. I can't get away!
Chase, it's Dylan!
He's had some sort of...episode.
What? What kind of episode?
He was just acting very strange. He thinks somebody's after him, Chase. It's scary, it scared me. He was acting like...
Like what?
Like Freddy.
Heather, has there been another call?
Chase. Why didn't Chuck or Terry show up?
Forget those two clowns, Heather. Answer me, did you get another call from that guy or not?
Yes.
I'll be there in three hours.
Don't speed, Chase. It's not...
I thought you'd killed Freddy off.
We did. Bad mistake. The fans are clamoring for more. So, Evil never dies, right? Anyway, a while back we got a call from Wes. He's got this idea. And who better to resurrect Freddy than his creator?
I thought he'd stopped doing horror.
Believe it or not, he told me I hadn't heard from him in ten years because he hasn't had any good nightmare. They're his inspiration. But now he's got a new script in the works.
Which means he's having nightmares again?
He's very excited about it.
The nightmares.
He's excited about the script. You should be too. It stars you.
Can I read it?
He's not showing it until it's down. But it sounds hot, and we wanted to get all our stars lined up in case it is. You and Robert got great ratings today. Which is the first thing we needed to know.
You mean that was a...
Sort of a trial balloon.
I don't know, Bob. I'm flattered and all, but I've got a kid, now.
So?
So I don't know about horror.
Come on. Kids love horror.
And I...I've got other things happening.
I'm sure we can match any offer.
Sweetie, you've got lots of fans, we've done market studies. You rate right up there. We've already got Chase working on a prototype for the glove.
What?
I know. We asked him to keep it kind of surprise until we talked. Look, how about we get in touch your agent. You still with Jerry?
Yes, but...
We'll work something out. I'm sure you'll be happy with it.
Bob, how long has Wes been working on this script?
I don't know. A couple months. Why?
And since you've been thinking of making it. Has anything funny happened?
I don't follow.
Like weird calls, by any chance?
Better'n a lion farm or a snake pit. We won't have to feed it!
We sell the tamales, enchiladas  hot dogs!
Must be somebody in there.
Who? Where d'you think they come from!
How would I know...!
Maybe these are not men  not like us.
Everything human don't have to look like you and me....
What'll we say to 'em?
Welcome to California!
They'll understand us, all right!
Sure, sure! Everybody understands you wave the white flag, you wanna be friends.
Number three to. D.O....Number three to D.O.
D.O. to number three..come in.
We're getting this under control. Won't need any more help. Over.
Okay. Send the tanker in, but you stand by until that thing cools off. Over.
I think somebody ought to check on it. Over.
Well, there's some fellows fishing at Pine Summit might be interested. They probably saw it come down. I'll let 'em know...What's it look like?
That probably dropped half way to Pomona!...What do you think?
It was nearer than that.
Uncle Matthew...this is Dr. Clayton Forrester. My uncle  Dr. Matthew Collins, pastor of the Community Church.
Welll...how do you do, Dr. Forrester!
They don't do much of anything...!
There's a square dance at the social hall this evening.
They are living creatures out there.
But they're not human! Dr. Forrester says they're some kind of an advanced civilization 
If they're more advanced than us, they should be nearer the Creator for that reason!
Let's go back inside, Uncle Matthew.
I've done about all I can do here. You go back in. Sylvia  I like that Doctor Forrester. He's a good man.
General Mann  I was told to expect you, sir. I'm Colonel Heffner.
I'm here to make up a report, not to interfere with the operations you've set up. You're still in command. Clayton Forrester! I haven't seen you since Oak Ridge.
That's their position? You've certainly got them surrounded. I suppose they've neutralized all communications here.
Not all. Radio is out. But our field phones are okay so far.
And they'll go out the minute there's another ray. A cylinder reported down by Huntington Beach. That's a job for the Navy.
We will, sir!
From the data  and from that picture the Air Force took earlier tonight ... ... what we've got in the gully out there is a guide ship. One lands ... Others follow later. They appear to clear an area, then drop in groups of threes, joined magnetically. Is that possible?
My orders are not to go into action unless they make a move out of there.
That's because we want a chance to observe them. This is the only place we've had time to surround them with sufficient force to contain them. What happens here will be a guide to all other operations. The minute action begins and a pattern of defense develops, I'll get my report to Washington. You've deployed your forces well.
Thank you, sir. If they start anything, we can blast them right off the earth!
They'll probably move at dawn.
There's one  there's the other, and we're right between them!
So is the town, I notice!
I warned you Civil Defense people to be ready if you have to evacuate.
I just came to tell you  everyone has been alerted.
Colonel  shooting's no good!
It's always been a good persuader.
Couldn't you try to communicate with them first  and shoot later if you have to?
I got a message for you. You're the guys from PacificTech, ain't you?
Right.
Looks like the fishing was good.
It's about that meteor. They say it's a whopper. The District Officer phoned us at the lookout up on the summit. Thought you might be interested... It's ten or twelve miles from here  over by Linda Rosa.
Are they sure it's a meteor? It didn't come down like one.
That's right  came down in kinda spurts, didn't it? You fellers'll have to figure it out. You're scientists All I know  they say it's as big as a house and practically red hot.
I'd like to borrow your car and take a look at it in the morning.
This Martian blood... Let's make a quick analysis and see what we've got!
It might give us something.
A forlorn hope  but there is a chance.
It might give us time to search out some weakness in the Martians.
I believe we can get a lead from their anaemic blood.
We know now that we can't beat their machines  but we can beat them! They are mortal beings...The only question is whether we have time enough to do anything!
If we get what transportation we can, and pick up instruments and books from PacificTech...
Gratzman!  Gratzman! Did you get those biotics?
No. I thought you had them.
All right. I'll get them! Go ahead  go ahead! I'll catch up with you.
That's what knocked the phones out, too.
How could it happen to everybody's watch together?
Have you got a pocket compass?
That needle ain't pointing north!
It's pointing out to the gully  where that meteor came down.
What is that gizmo?!
I think that  gizmo  is a machine from another planet.
We better get word to the authorities and  Look!
Is that it over there?
Yes...ugly looking, isn't it.
Did you see it come down?
Yes...I was fishing up in the hills.
You must have caught plenty with all that tackle!
Oh  there were three of us. The others flew back in my plane. I don't understand why a meteor this size didn't make a bigger crater.
It hit sideways and skidded in.
What's that fellow over there trying to do  dig it out?
He's top man in astro and nuclear physics. He knows all about meteors!
You seem to know a lot about him.
Well, I did a thesis on modern scien tists  working for my Masters degree.
Did it do you any good?
Why, sure  I got it! Do you have a match?
I'm sorry. I don't smoke.
Forrester's the man behind the new atomic engines. They had him on the cover of 'Time'. You've got to rate to get that!
Aw, he isn't that good...!
How can you say that when you don't know him!
I do know him...slightly.
What's he like?
Like...ah...
Well, you certainly don't look like yourself in that getup! But I am happy to meet you anyway. I'm Sylvia Van Buren. I teach Library Science over at USC.
I didn't know how to stop you...!
I might have recognized you without the beard. And you didn't wear glasses on the 'Time' cover!
They're really for long distance. When I want to look at something close... I take them off.
They've all stopped at the same time.
There's only about one explanation for a thing like this..Got a pin?
How does it happen cars are running?
Automobile ignitions are insulated.
The troops are certainly moving in here!
Didn't you have something to do with this? I know you sent word to the Sixth Army Command!
I just told them the local situation. Colonel Heffner's in full charge now.
You never know where you're going to wind up when you go to a square dance!
Good to see you, General. This is Pastor Collins, director of Civil Defense. Sheriff Bogany, head of the local forces ... Miss Van Buren.
Would you like some coffee, General?
We can't go into town  everybody's getting out of there! I'll fly you over to Pasadena.
Can you handle one of these?
Sure...get in!
You'll hit something! Can't you go higher?
No. The air's going to be full of Jets in a minute...And there they are!
I never noticed before  that's a cowboy tie....
I bought it for the square dance. I thought I ought to wear some thing Western.
Is that... machine...?
It's gone now.
Where are we?
Southwest of Corona, somewhere. There must have been another cylinder down here. They've been through this whole area and cleared everybody out. There's a farmhouse. Let's see if we can find something to eat...!
I almost forget when I ate last. It looks so good.... You know, mostly I get my meals in coffee shops and restaurants.
Don't you live at home?
No, on the campus. I haven't any family.
I come from a big one. Nine of us. All in Minnesota, except me.
I have no close folks. My parents died when I was a kid.
A big family must be fun...I imagine it makes you feel you belong to something.
It does...Maybe that's why I feel kind of lost right now.
We'll get safely out of here, don't worry.
But they seem to murder everything that moves...!
If they're mortal, they must have mortal weaknesses. They'll be stopped  somehow!
I've been as close to them as anyone. But not close enough for real observation...
I feel like I did one time when I was small. Awful scared and lonesome...I'd wandered off  I've forgotten why  but the family and whole crowds of neighbors were hunting for me. They found me in a church. I was afraid to go in any place else.
I stayed right by the door  praying for the one who loved me best to come and find me. It was Uncle Matthew who found me.
I liked him.
He liked you ... I could bawl my head off!
But you're not going to. You're not the kind. You're tired, anyway. You've been up all night. You cracked up in a plane. Slept in a ditch. But you want to know something? It doesn't show on you at all.
How long was I out?
Hours. I've been so scared...!
Nothing there now.
It was... ...one of them!
What was it like?
I couldn't see much in the dark  but it was one!
We're right in a nest of 'em! ... I've got to get a look at them.
Maybe they aren't too sure we're here.
They could be as curious about us as we are about them.
Maybe ... Maybe they want to take us alive.
They've blocked it!
It's blocked here, too! They've pushed up earth or something all around outside. Here, this way...!
Is it possible to go in right after the explosion?
Yes, with these suits. We've used them before on atomic tests... Odd looking, aren't they?
Very futuristic. Yours doesn't really go with that butch haircut!
I could wear it longer  but it's less trouble this way.
My kid brother has one. You know why?
Yes ... Fits better in a football helmet.
How'd you guess?
That's the kind of a kid brother you'd have!
The Rockies...! You'd rather get back to that big family of yours in Minnesota, wouldn't you?
I wonder if they're going through this too...?
I probably wouldn't be able to get to them if I tried...
You'll be all right with us.... ...for as long as anybody's got!
Don't let's lose each other.
Hey, you! Better get outa here!
I'm looking for some PacificTech professors...
There's nobody left around here now.
We had a chance...We could have stopped them! The mob stole the trucks and smashed everything up. The fools! They cut their own throats!
Hurry up! Jump in!
There was a girl with them...If I could find her....
You look kinda lost yourself.
But I think I know where she'll be....
That explains why communication is cut the moment their machines begin to move.
Madrid has just blacked out!! Nothing more coming through.
The same thing that happened on our Pacific Coast. Anything from them yet?
Mister Secretary  if they link up with those others near Fresno...
All right  I've seen enough!
There's only one thing that will stop the Martians! We've held back pre viously because of the danger of radiation to civilians. Now there's no choice. The United Nations has voted authority to the United States. The White House will confirm an order to use the Atom bomb.
Then our first target will be the initial landing place outside Los Angeles.
I'll request the scientists from PacificTech to monitor the drop. We'll clear the area all around. After that we'll hit them all over the world. I'll have longrange bombers alerted, loaded and standing by.
Looks almost cold now, don't it?
That won't start no more fires. We might's well go home.
Yeah. No sense stayin' out here.
Let's go.
It's an enemy sneak attack. Let's get outta here!
Wait a minute  wait a minute!.... Bombs don't unscrew.
It's no meteor, that's for sure!
Darnedest thing I ever saw  the way that's unscrewing!
We'd be the first to make contact with 'em  see?
We'd be in all the papers!
Hey, how about that!
We could show 'em we're friendly, huh? Walk out there with a white flag! Here  I got an old sugar sack in my car!
Hey, there  open up!
Come on out! We're friends!
Franky can't make it. He had an appointment he forgot, he's going to see you later. I'm Mickey Morrissey, we're supposed to get to know each other.
How'm I doing so far?
So far you're great. You got a cigarette?
Stearns, Harrington, you know who that is?
Should I?
A huge law firm. Okay? They put him in the firm, he's married, everything's superb. Franky, he's starting to talk like he comes from Dorsetshire, some fuckin' place, 'You must drop by with Pat and me...' Okay...?
Yes.
...and he's making a billion dollars every minute working for Stearns, Harrington, and he bought a dog, and everything is rosy. Then Mr. Stearns, he tried to fix a case.
The Big Boy did...?
That Frank was working on. Yeah. He thought Franky needed some help, so they bribed a juror. So Franky finds out. He comes to me in tears. He thinks that anybody who knows what a 'spinnaker' is got to be a saint. I told him 'Franky, wake up. These people are sharks. What do you think they got so rich from? Doing good?' He can't be comforted. He tells the boys at Stearns and Harrington they've disappointed him, he's going to the Judge to rat them out.
Huh.
Before he can get there here comes this Federal Marshal, and Franky's indicted for Jury tampering, they throw him in jail, he's gonna be disbarred, his life is over. Jimmy, gimme another drink. How are you?
Me, too.
Okay. Now, so he's in jail. He, finally, he gets to see the light, he calls up Harrington, he says he thinks he made a mistake. As if by magic, charges against him are dropped, he's released from jail. P.S. He's fired from the firm, his wife divorces him, he turns to drink and mopes around three and a half years. You like that story?
Dr. Towler...
Yes.
You have a record of what happened in the operating room...
Yes, that's correct.
...there are notations every thirty seconds...
Yes.
...of the procedures...
Yes, the roving nurse...
But those notations stop... ...Fourandonehalf minutes after Deborah Ann Kaye's...
We, we were rather busy...
Fourandonehalf minutes after her heart stopped. And they resume seven minutes...
As I've said we had some more...
...they start again three minutes earlier...
We had rather more important things on our mind than taking notes. We were trying to restore her...
What happened in those three...
...we were trying to restore her heartbeat.
What happened in those three minutes...?
We'd gone to 'Code Blue,' we were administering electro...
Why did it take that long to get her heartbeat...
Brain damage could have been... it didn't necessarily take nine minutes, it could have been caused in two...
Wait, wait, wait, you're saying that her brain damage could have been caused by her being deprived of oxygen for two minutes...?
Yes.
Huh. And why is that?
Because she was anemic. It's right there on her chart. Her brain was getting less oxygen anyway...
I spoke to her, and everything is all right.
I, what are you talking about? I talked to her this morning, and she said...
She told me.
She did?
I just saw her.
In New York?
What?
You saw Kat in New York... ...or is she in town? Is she in town...?
Hi, Mickey...
What the hell do you think you're doing...? What's going on here...?
Uh...
Fuck you. I got a call today from Sally Doneghy...
...now who is that...?
...You're 'sposed to be in court in ten days and she's telling me you haven't even met with them...
Sally Doneghy, now who is that?
One lousy letter eighteen months ago... I try to throw a fuckin' case your way...
...hey, I don't need your charity...
...I get these people to trust you  they're coming here tomorrow by the way  I get this expert doctor to talk to you. I'm doing all your fuckin' legwork  and it's eighteen months. You're 'sposed to be in court. I bet you haven't even seen the file.
I have to talk to you.
What do you want?
Come on. Let's get a drink.
Don't touch anything.
Are you out of your mind...?
...I'm going to need your help...
You need my help...? You need a goddamn keeper... are you telling me that you turned down twohundredten grand? Huh...? Are you nuts? Eh? Are you nuts. What are you going to do, bring her back to life?
I'm going to help her.
To do what...? To do what, for chrissake...? To help her to do what? She's dead...
They killed her. And they're trying to buy it...
That's the point, you stupid fuck. Let them buy it. We let them buy the case. That's what I took it for. You let this drop  we'll go up to New Hampshire, kill some fuckin' deer...
Mick. Mick. Mick...
What?
You  Listen: you said to me, 'if not now, when...'
I know what I said but not now. You won it. Franky. You won it. When they give you the money, that means that you won. We don't want to go to court  is this getting to you...?
...he's a good man...
...he's a good man...? He's the Prince of Fuckin' Darkness... he'll have people in there testifying that the broad is well  they saw her Tuesday on a surfboard at Hyannis... don't fuck with this case.
...I have to stand up for her...
Frank, but not now. Frank. You're trying to wipe out some old business. But not now. I understand. But you go call 'em back. You call the Bishop back.
I have to try this case. I have to do it, Mick. I've got to stand up for that girl. I need your help. Mick, will you help me...? Will you help me...?
Who have we got?
We've got her sister. Testifies she had a meal one hour before she was admitted to the hospital. This is the point.
You got the admittance form says patient ate nine hours prior to admittance.
Admittance form is wrong.
Forget it. You can't prove it. Sister's testimony is no good. Jury knows we win she gets the cash.
I've got my Dr. Gruber, says her heart condition means they gave her the wrong anesthetic anyway, plus she came in complaining of stomach pains...
...Gruber's not bad.
Not bad...? This guy's Dr. Kildare, the jury's going to love him, Mick... And you calm down, all right? Their guy, Towler's, the author of the book, 'Methodology and Practice, Anesthesiology.' ...and they got depositions from the nurses, everybody in the operating room, the scrubnurse... 'All these guys are God. I saw them walk on water...' They had an obstetrical nurse in there. We got a deposition from the obstetrical nurse?
No.
'Mary Rooney, fortynine. Lives in Arlington, still working at the hospital.' Can you get out tomorrow? How come she isn't speaking up.
Right.
Okay now. Cases: Smith versus State of Michigan.
Right.
Brindisi versus Electric Boat.
You got a good memory, Franky.
I had a good teacher. McLean versus Urban Transport...
Jimmy? Bushmills. Lookit, do me a favor. I'll buy you a drink tomorrow.
Yeah? And what are you going to do tonight?
I'm going to get laid.
Been a long time, huh...?
I'm getting it back. Don't worry about me, Mick. I'm fine. D'you find the obstetric nurse?
Mary Rooney. She won't talk to me. I tried her at the hospital. I'm going to try her back at home. Read this.
So what?
So what...? The best is yet to come. Check the TV Guide. They got our Dr. Towler on a panel on GBH on Friday: 'The Healing Hand. The Experts Speak.'
They still have to take it to a jury.
What I'm saying, they're getting some help.
So what do you want me to do? Concannon's going to try the case his way, I'm going to try it mine. You want me to go wee wee wee all the time because he's got some flack, got stories in the newspaper. I'm going to win this case.
John: gimme a cuestaray.
Oh shit, what's today?
Today is Tuesday. What?
I've got to go see Gruber. What's the best cigars you have?
Give 'em a box of Macanudos.
Mickey: I'm supposed to meet somebody at O'Rourke's, I can't make it.
What happened, Joey...?
I can't talk now.
D'you meet with Dr. Gruber...?
Yeah? How's our new witness?
D'you find the obstetric nurse?
She's workin' the late shift at the Hospital. She's at home now, I'm going over there to talk to...
Gimme the address. I'm gonna go. We're going to need her.
How are you holding up?
I'm swell.
And all we've got is a witch doctor!
Yeah.
Okay. What do you do when you don't have a witness?
You use their witness.
That's right.
I think we tried that. The case is over.
Are you with me... are you awake...?
Yeah. I'm awake.
Rooney's protecting someone. Who is she protecting?
The Doctors.
She's protecting the Doctors she'd be up there on the stand...
Read me what she said.
'You guys are a bunch of whores... uh... loyalty... you don't care who gets hurt... you don't have any loyalty...'
...one of the other nurses?
Who? They're all testifying. Everybody who was in the O.R.'s going to take the stand.
All right. Who wasn't in the O.R.?
What difference can that make...? All right...
Uh... the admitting nurse...
What did she do?
She didn't do anything. She took the patient's history and signed the charts. 'K.C.' 'Kathy Costello...'
The 'History'...?
How old are you, how many children... when did you last eat...
We don't have anything from the Nurse Association?
The broad has disappeared...
The Hospital...?
...yeah... good...
...you need some old forms that she had... somebody's dying...
...four years ago...
Hello. This is Mr. Dorchester in Records. We're looking for Kathy Costello...
I need a cigarette! She left my office four years ago, we're looking for a chart... I need a cigarette...
What the hell are you doing here?
We got to talk.
What are you doing in New York...?
Come on, we'll get a cup of coffee...
I talked to Johnnie White at the Bar Association. The broad used to work for one of Concannon's partners in New York awhile ago. She wanted to move to Boston. How badly did she hurt us, Joe?
I don't know.
We got a mistrial, you know. Joe  did you hear what I said...?
I don't want a mistrial.
Another, Frank...?
...everybody. Mike says, 'Pat, you mean to tell me for a buck you get a free lunch and a beer, and then you go in the back and get laid?' 'That's correct.' Mike says, 'Pat. Have you been in this bar ?' Pat says, 'No, but my sister has...' Everyone. Buy yourself one too.
I want to buy you a drink.
Thanks, Franky.
Well, well, well. Huh?
Yeah.
It's a long road that has no turning.
That's for sure, Frank.
Dr. Gruber.
Dr. Gruber's not in.
I had an appointment at his office, I think I must have got it wrong. We had a meeting...
He's not in, Sir.
Where is he?
I... please. My wife... my wife's prescription has run out. If I can call him...
Dr. Halpern's taking all his...
No, no, no. I have to talk to him. If I can only call him...
He's... you can't reach him, Sir. He's in the, on some island in the Caribbean, they don't have a phone. He'll be back in a week... If you'd like Dr. Halpern's number...
I'm... Mrs. Doneghy? I'm Frank Galvin... why didn't you go in?
It's locked.
It's locked?
It's not a good case. It's a very good case.
A healthy young woman goes into the hospital to deliver her third child, she's given the wrong anesthetic...
...we, we love her, Dick and me...
...I'm sure you do...
But what can we do? She don't know who's visiting her...
...I know. I went...
...You saw her?
Yes. Yes, I have.
You know how beautiful she was? Her husband left her, and he took her kids... They, they, they'd let you die in there. They don't care. Nobody cares. The Patriot Home, the Chronic Care... in Arlington...? They'd take her in. Perpetual care. They'd take her. Fifty thousand dollars they want. An endowment.
...fifty thousand dollars?
I don't want to leave her. Dick... the, the... and Father Laughlin, he said that it was God's will...
...I understand...
My doctor told me that I got to move out West... that's when we filed in court. We didn't want to sue...
...I understand...
...But Dick, he's looking for two years in Tucson... and they called him up and said to come out. He's a good man. He's only trying to do what's right.
He saw her at the Northern Care...
...and I have inquiries out to doctors, experts in the field... there is, of course, a problem getting a doctor to testify that another doctor's negligent...
We just can't do it anymore. This is our chance to get away.
I'm going to see you get that chance.
What does it mean? I... I mean we, you have other tactics...
We, yes. Yes. They, they present their side, and I get the same chance. To crossexamine... to... to...
Are we going to win? We have, you know, other tactics, though...
Yes.
I'm Joe Galvin, I'm representing Deborah Ann Kaye, case against St. Catherine Laboure.
I told the guy I didn't want to talk to...
I'll just take a minute. Deborah Ann Kaye. You know what I'm talking about. The case is going to trial. Our chief witness is a Dr. David Gruber, you know who he is?
No.
He's the Assistant Chief of Anesthesiology, Massachusetts Commonwealth. He says your doctors, Towler and Marx, put my girl in the hospital for life. And we can prove that. What we don't know is why. What went on in there? In the O.R. That's what we'd like to know. Something went wrong. And you know what it was. They gave her the wrong anesthetic. What happened? The phone rang... someone got distracted... what?
...you got your doctor's testimony. Why do you need me?
I want someone who was in the O.R. We're going to win the case, there's no question of that. It's just a matter of how big...
I've got nothing to say to you.
You know what happened.
Nothing happened.
Then why aren't you testifying for their side?
I can subpoena you, you know. I can get you up there on the stand.
And ask me what?
Who put my client in the hospital for life.
I didn't do it, Mister.
Who are you protecting, then?
Who says that I'm protecting anyone?
I do. Who is it? The Doctors. What do you owe them?
I don't owe them a goddamn thing.
Then why don't you testify?
You know, you're pushy, fella...
You think I'm pushy now, wait 'til I get you on the stand...
Well, maybe you better do that, then. You know you guys are all the same. You don't care who gets hurt. You're a bunch of whores. You'd do anything for a dollar. You got no loyalty... no nothing... you're a bunch of whores.
Continental Casualty...
Mr. Alito, please.
Business hours are over, Sir. This is the switch...
I have to reach him. This is an emergency. Could you give me his home number?
I'm sorry, Sir, we're not allowed...
...Would you, would you call him up. I'll give you my number, and ask him...
I can't guarantee that...
I understand. Thank you, my name is Galvin. I'll be at the following number in a half an hour. It's urgent.
Mr. Galvin's...
Let me talk to Mickey.
Hello, I'm calling from...
If you're selling something, I'm late for work...
I'm calling from Professional Nurse Quarterly...
From the magazine?
This is Mr. Wallace in Subscriptions?
How come you're calling me from...?
This is Miss Costello...?
Yes. Price...
Pardon?
Kathy Price.
We find that your subscription lapsed...
My subscription lapsed three years ago...
That's why I'm calling, Miss Price...
Missus...
We have a renewyoursubscription offer...
We get it at work. We get the magazine at work.
Yes, we know that you do. I have it in my files. That's at the Manhattan Health Center...
No. At Chelsea Childcare. Okay. Look, call me Monday, hey? I'm late for work.
D'you find an apartment?
Still looking.
I changed my life today. What did you do?
I changed my room at the Hotel.
Why?
The TV didn't work.
What Hotel are you staying at?
And what are you? A cop?
I'm a lawyer.
My exhusband was a lawyer.
Really. How wonderful for you.
Yes. It was, actually.
Oh, actually it was. Then why'd you call it off?
Who says I'm the one that called it off?
A brick house says you divorced him. I'll put you on your honor. Bet you a hundred dollars against you join me for dinner. And I'll take your word for it. Now you tell me the truth. Because you cannot lie to me. What's your name?
Laura.
My name's Frank. And furthermore, you came back to see me tonight.
What if it wasn't you that I came back to see?
You just got lucky. D'you eat yet? Come on.
The weak, the weak have got to have somebody to fight for them. Isn't that the truth? You want another drink?
I think I will.
Jimmy! That's why the court exists. The court doesn't exist to give them justice, eh? But to give them a chance at justice.
And are they going to get it?
They might. Yes. That's the point... is that they might... you see, the jury wants to believe. They're all cynics, sure, because they want to believe. I have to go in there tomorrow to find twelve people to hear this case. I'm going to see a hundred people and pick twelve. And every one of them it's written on their face, 'This is a sham. There is no justice...' but in their heart they're saying, 'Maybe... maybe...'
Maybe what?
Maybe I can do something right.
And is that what you're going to do? Is that what you're going to do...?
That's what I'm going to try to do.
Would you like me to leave...? Is this a bad time  ?
What...?
Is this a bad time.
We, we... No... we just had a small reversal in the case... I have some, uh... I have some work to do...
What happened...?
They, uh, they got to my witness.
...and is that serious?
I've got to work...
Do you want me to go...?
No, no, I'm just...
Why don't you get some rest?
I've got to work.
You can't work if you can't think. You get in bed. It's all right. I'll stay here with you. It's all right. Come on...
You're going to stay here...?
Yes.
Do you think it's my fault?
Isn't there something you...
That's not the question. It's over. Do you think that it's my fault? If I'd... if I'd... I never should have taken it. There was no way that I was going to win.
You're talking like a drunk.
That's what I am.
And it's over...?
Yes.
Well, then what are you doing here?
I... do you want me to leave?
You do what you want. You want to leave... You want to go kill yourself?
I...
You want me to tell you it's your fault? It probably is. What are you going to do about it? I thought it's not over till the jury comes in.
Who told you that?
You told me so. Maybe you'd get some sympathy. You came to the wrong place.
And what makes you so tough?
Maybe I'll tell you later.
Is there going to be a later...?
Not if you don't grow up...
If I don't 'grow up...'
You're like a kid, you're coming in here like it's Saturday night, you want me to say that you've got a fever  you don't have to go to school...
You, you don't under...
Oh, yes, I do, Joe. Believe me. You say you're going to lose. Is it my fault? Listen! The damned case doesn't start until tomorrow and already it's over for you!
It's over!
What is your wife's picture doing by the side of your...
What is that to you...?
What would you like it to be to me...? I, I, I can't invest in failure.
Joe... Joe...
Stop pressuring me...
You're pressuring yourself...
No... no...
Yes. We've all got to let go.
Is it over?
No.
What are you going to do?
I don't have a goddamned idea.
Thank you.
I have to talk to you.
Call the A.M.A. ...I can't talk now. ...tell them you're Dr. Somebody... you have to find this nurse...
Yessir. I'm sorry.
Why is that?
I was held up.
Now, have you boys tried to resolve your little difficulty because that certainly would save the Commonwealth a lot of time and bother.
This is a complicated case, your Honor...
I'm sure it is, Frank: and let me tell you something. If we find it so complex, how in the hell you think you're going to make a jury understand it? See my point? Let's talk a minute. Frank: what will you and your client take right now this very minute to walk out of here and let this damn thing drop?
My client can't walk, your Honor.
I know full well she can't, Frank. You see the Padre on your way out and he'll punch your ticket. You follow me? I'm trying to help you.
That's it...? Come on, guys... life is too short... You tell me if you're playing 'chicken,' or you mean it. Frank: I don't think I'm talking out of school, but I just heard someone offer you two hundred grand... and that's a lot of money... and if I may say, you haven't got the best of records.
...things change.
...that's true. Sometimes they change, sometimes they don't. Now, I remember back to when you were disbarred...
I wasn't disbarred, they dropped the pro...
And it seems to me, a fella's trying to come back, he'd take this settlement, and get a record for himself. I myself would take it and run like a thief.
I'm sure you would.
What is it?
Thank you for seeing me.
That's perfectly all right.
I need an extension for my case.
You should have taken their offer. Especially if you were unprepared.
I had a witness disappear on me.
That happens.
I could subpoena him if I had a week.
I don't have a week. This case never should have come to trial. You know better. You're Mr. Independent. You want to be independent? Be independent now. I've got no sympathy for you.
Is the Plaintiff ready?
Ready, your Honor.
Defense...?
Do we have time this morning to... All right. Mr. Galvin, you want to continue now, or we can resume with Dr. Thompson this afternoon.
Thank you, your Honor, I'll continue. Dr. Thompson. Did you examine Deborah Ann Kaye last night at The Northern Chronic Care Facility?
Sustained. Yes. The witness will confine his testimony to review of the hospital records.
What?
I believe that's the law... is it not, Mr. Galvin...?
Yes, Mr. Galvin?
If I may be permitted to question my own witness in my own way...
I'd just like to get to the point, Mr. Galvin. Let's not waste these people's time. Answer the question, Mr. Witness. Please. Would a nine minute lapse in restoring the heartbeat in and of itself be negligence?
I got a letter from the Judge Advocate's office on you today, fella, you're on your way out... They should have kicked you out on that Lillibridge case. Now this is it today.
I'm an attorney on trial before the bar. Representing my client. My client, do you understand? You open your mouth and you're losing my case for me.
Listen to me, fella...
No, no, you listen to me. All I wanted in this case is an even shake. You rushed me into court in five days... my star witness disappears, I can't get a continuance, and I don't give a damn. I'm going up there and I'm going to try it. Let the Jury decide. They told me Sweeney he's a hard ass, he's a defendant's judge. I don't care. I said, the hell with it. The hell with it. I'll take my chances he'll be fair.
Galvin, look, many years ago...
And don't give me this shit, 'I was a lawyer, too.' 'Cause I know who you were. You couldn't hack it as a lawyer. You were Bag Man for the Boys and you still are. I know who you are.
Are you done?
Damn right I'm done. I'm going to ask for a mistrial and I'm going to request that you disqualify yourself from sitting on this case. I'm going to take a transcript to the State and ask that they impeach your ass.
You aren't going to get a mistrial, boy. We're going back this afternoon, we're going to try this case to an end. Now you get out of here before I call the Bailiff and have you thrown in jail.
Nothing further, your Honor...
Mr. Concannon...?
I object, your Honor...
Overruled...
Exception!
Noted. Thank you. Miss Costello was a rebuttal witness. Her sole rebuttal was the document, which has been disallowed...
Hi.
Hi. How are you doing?
I've been meaning to come in a long time.
You live in the neighborhood?
Uhhuh. My nephew's going to be staying with us in a few months, so I stopped by.
How old is he?
Four. You're great with these kids.
Thank you.
You're really... You, are you the one they told me was the nurse?
Who told you that?
Mrs...
Mrs. Simmonds.
Yes.
I used to be a nurse.
That's a wonderful profession. My daughterinlaw's a nurse. What did you do, stop?
Kathy Price...
Yes...
You were the Admitting Nurse at St. Catherine Laboure Hospital on May twelfth, nineteen seventysix, the night Deborah Ann Kaye was admitted...
Yes.
Yes.
These are your initials, 'K.C.'?
Kathy Costello. That's my maiden name.
D'you ask the patient when did she last eat?
Yes.
What did she say?
She said she had a full meal one hour before coming to the hospital.
One hour.
Yes.
And did you write the numeral 'one' down on the record, standing for one hour?
I did.
A single hour.
Yes.
Dr. Gruber...
Yes? Galvin, right?
I appreciate  a man as busy as 
That's perfectly all right. I'm kind of rushed. Do you mind if we walk while we talk?
I read the hospital report on your client.
...Deborah Ann Kaye...
...Deborah Ann Kaye...
They called, they're going to settle, what I want to do is build up as much...
Right. Who called?
The Archdiocese called, they want to settle... her estate...
...and you're going to do that?
Yes.
You're going to settle out of court?
Yes.
Why?
Uh... in the, well, in the interests of her family... you, Dr. Gruber, you know, you can never tell what a jury is going to do. St. Catherine's a very well thought of institution. Her doctors...
Her doctors killed her.
I'm sorry...?
Her doctors murdered her. They gave her the wrong anesthetic and they put her in the hospital for life. Her doctors murdered her.
Do you know who her doctors were?
I read the file. Yeah. Marx and Towler. I know who they were.
The most respected...
Whose side are you arguing...? I thought that you wanted to do something. I don't have any interest in the woman's 'estate'  No offense, but we all know where the money's going to... I have an interest in the Hospital; and I don't want those bozos working in the same shop as me. They gave her the wrong anesthetic. They turned the girl into a vegetable. They killed her and they killed her kid. You caught 'em. Now: how many others did they kill?
The hospital is owned by the Archdioceses of...
What are they going to do? Not invite me to their Birthday party...? Look, I gotta go. I have to be in Cambridge...
We have to... we... we have to keep you under wraps. Please don't, don't discuss...
I understand.
...the case with anyone. And I'll meet you Tuesday, and we'll go over your testimony...
Thank you...
...that's perfectly all right.
Uh, why, why are you doing this?
To do right. Isn't that why you're doing it?
Dr. Towler; page 406, 'Contraindications to general anesthetic. Ideally a patient should refrain from taking nourishment up to nine hours prior to induction of general anesthetic.' Does that sound familiar?
Yes. I wrote it.
'Practice and Methodology in Anaesthesia.' General textbook on the subject. Is that correct?
I. Yes. It is.
And you wrote that...
Yes.
...Page 414, 'If a patient has taken nourishment within one hour prior to inducement, general anesthetic should be avoided at all costs because of the grave risk the patient will aspirate food particles into his mask.' Is that what happened to Deborah Ann Kaye? She aspirated into her mask?
She threw up in her mask, yes. But she hadn't eaten one hour prior to admission.
If she had eaten, say one hour prior to admission, the inducement of a general anesthetic... the type you gave her... would have been negligent...?
Negligent. Yes... it would have been criminal. But that was not the case.
Thank you.
They gave her the wrong anesthetic.
Why is that?
Her sister said she ate one hour prior to admittance... she...
...that's what the sister said. The chart said she ate nine hours prior to...
...she went in complaining of stomach cramps. Good doctor would have doubted the information on the chart.
Is that what a good doctor would do? How old are you, please?
I am seventyfour years old.
What qualifies you as an expert in anesthetics?
I am on the staff of...
Easthampton Hospital for Women. Excuse me, what is that, a joke? Let me tell you something, Doctor, those men at Catherine Laboure. Men who are known not only in this city, but the world, were trying to save a woman's life. They were there, and here you are, four years later, read some hospital report, and say...
...I made a detailed physical examination of the patient, Sir, yesterday evening, I...
She getting good care over there?
Actually, yes. It's by no means bad, I...
Then what good would it do to ruin the reputation of two men, to help a girl whose life's not going to be changed in the least? You know what CODE BLUE means?
'Code Blue'...
It's a common medical term.
Are you saying that a failure to restore the heartbeat within nine minutes in itself constitutes bad medical practice?
Well...
I... in that small context I would have... I would have to say 'no.'
Then you're saying there's no negligence, based on my question?
I... given the limits of your question, that's correct.
The Doctors were not negligent.
I... um...
Dr. Thompson...?
It was good of you to meet...
I have some errands to run, and then I thought we'd spend the evening...
That's what I'd planned to...
I'm going to take you to the home to see the girl...
From what I've seen, Mr. Galvin, you have a very good case...
Yes. Yes. I think so. I hope you'll be comfortable. I'm putting you up at my...
...I made a reservation at...
...apartment. No, no. Please. You don't know who we're dealing with, I, please believe me, they...
...What difference would...
These people play very rough. They don't want to lose this case. There's a lot of pressure they can bring to bear, I...
There's nothing they can do to me.
Dr. Thompson. From your review of the hospital records of May twelfth nineteen seventysix.
In your opinion, what happened to Deborah Ann Kaye?
Cardiac arrest. During delivery her heart stopped. When the heart stops the brain's deprived of oxygen. You get brain damage. That is why she's in the state she's in today.
Now, Dr. Towler's testified that they restored the heartbeat within three or four minutes. In your opinion is his estimate correct?
It's my opinion it took him much longer. Nine... ten minutes. There's too much brain damage.
I didn't do too well for you.
No, you did fine.
I'm afraid that's not true. Will you want me to stay on till Monday?
No. No thank you, Doctor. You go home.
You know... sometimes people can surprise you. Sometimes they have a great capacity to hear the truth.
Yes... I... yes.
You sure you don't want me to stay on.
No. No. Thank you. You go home.
Please sit down. I told your wife. I'm sorry that we have to meet out here. I've got a case coming in two days in the Superior Court and my office is a mess of papers.
...that's all right.
I was telling your wife, we have a very good case here.
...the Archdiocese called up, they said who was our attorney, 'cause the case is coming to trial...
I doubt we'll have to go to trial...
...we told them we didn't want it to come out this way.
I completely understand...
We just...
What is this going to cost?
It's completely done on a contingency basis. That means whatever the settlement is I retain onethird... that is, of course, the usual arrangement...
You said you're gonna call me up. You didn't call me up. Who do you think you are? Who do you think you are...?
Hold on a second.
I'm going to have you disbarred. I'm going to have your ticket. You know what you did? Do you know what you did?
It's all right, Mickey.
You ruined my life, Mister... Me and my wife... and I am going to ruin yours... You don't have to go out there to see that girl. We been going four years. Four years... my wife's been crying herself to sleep what they, what, what they did to her sister.
I swear to you I wouldn't have turned the offer down unless I thought that I could win the case...
What you thought!? What you thought... I'm a workingman, I'm trying to get my wife out of town, we hired you, we're paying you, I got to find out from the other side they offered two hundred...
I'm going to win this case... Mist... Mr. Doneghy... I'm going to the Jury with a solid case, a famous doctor as an expert witness, and I'm going to win eight hundred thousand dollars.
You guys, you guys, you're all the same. The Doctors at the hospital, you... it's 'What I'm going to do for you'; but you screw up it's 'We did the best that we could. I'm dreadfully sorry...' And people like me live with your mistakes the rest of our lives.
If I could accept the offer right now, I would. They took it back.
I understand. I went to the Bar Association. They tell me you're going to be disbarred.
No, actually, she was referred to me. She was Dr. Hagman's patient...
Don't equivocate. Be positive. Just tell the truth.
Whatever the 'truth' is, let's hear that. You were her doctor.
Yes.
Say it.
I was her doctor.
You were the anesthesiologist at her delivery May twelfth, nineteen seventy...
...I was one of a group of...
Answer affirmatively. Simply. Keep those answers to three words. You weren't 'part of a group,' you were her anesthesiologist. Isn't that right?
Yes.
You were there to help Dr. Marx deliver her baby. Were you not?
Yes.
Anything special about the case?
When she...
Thank you. When Debby...
Dr. Towler, who was in the operating room with you?
Ms. Nevins, nurseanesthetist; Dr. Marx, of course...
Mary Rooney, the obstetrical nurse...
What did these people do when her heart stopped?
We went to Code Blue...
'Code Blue,' what does that mean...?
It's a common medical expression, it's a crash program to restore the heartbeat. Dr. Marx cut an airway in her trachea, to get her oxygen, her and the baby... Ms. Nevins...
Why wasn't she getting oxygen...?
Well, many reasons, actually...
Tell me one?
She'd aspirated vomitus into her mask...
She THREW UP IN HER MASK. Let's cut the bullshit. Say it: She THREW UP IN HER MASK.
...and her heart stopped and she wasn't getting oxygen.
That's right.
And what did your team do...
Well, we...
...You brought thirty years of medical experience to bear. Isn't that what you did?
Yes.
...A patient riddled with complications, questionable information on her, on her admitting form...
...We did everything we could...
...to save her and to save the baby. Is that...
Yes!
You reached down into death. Now, isn't that right?
My God, we tried to save her... You can't know... You can't know...
Tell us.
Your Honor, Bishop Brophy and the Archdiocese have offered plaintiff two hundred and ten thousand dollars.
Huh!
My doctors didn't want a settlement at any price. They wanted this cleared up in court. They want their vindication. I agree with them. But for today the offer stands. Before we begin the publicity of a trial. For today only. When I walk out that door the offer is withdrawn. As long as you understand that. It's got to be that way.
Mr. Concannon...?
Nothing further, your Honor.
Mr. Galvin, rebuttal?
Objection! This is ri... expect us to accept a photocopy, we have the original right...
I'll rule on that presently. Proceed.
No further questions.
You may step down.
Thank you, your Honor. We object to the copy of the admissions form as incompetent and essentially hearsay evidence and cite McGee versus State of Indiana, U.S. 131 point 2 and 216 through 25 of the Uniform Code: 'The admission of a duplicate document in preference to an existing original must presuppose the possibility of alteration and so must be disallowed.' And, your Honor, having given the Plaintiff the leeway we would like your ruling on this issue now: we object to the admission of the Xerox form.
...one moment, Mr. Concannon...
The document is disallowed, the jury will be advised not to consider the testimony of Kathy Costello regarding the Xerox form. It's unsubstantiated and we can't accept a copy in preference to the original...
Thank you, your Honor. Further: Ms. Costello is a rebuttal witness. As a 'Surprise Witness' she may only serve to rebut direct testimony. As her only evidentiary rebuttal was the admitting form, which has been disallowed I request that her entire testimony be disallowed and the jury advised that they must totally disregard her appearance here.
I'm going to uphold that.
Ed Concannon.
Frank Galvin. We've met before.
Objection, we've...
...to get her heartbeat back...?
We've touched on this, his own witness has said...
...almost nine minutes... causing brain damage.
Your Honor...! Your Honor...
Objection!
And you would come here, and on a slip of memory four years ago, you'd ruin their lives.
Dr. Thompson, just so the Jury knows, you never treated Deborah Ann Kaye. Is that correct?
That is correct. I was engaged to render an opinion.
Engaged to render an opinion. For a price. Is that correct? You're being paid to be here today?
Just as you are, Sir...
Are you boardcertified in anesthesiology, Doctor?
No, I am not. It's quite common in New York State...
...I'm sure it is, but this is Massachusetts, Doctor. Certified in Internal Medicine?
No.
Neurology?
No.
Orthopedics?
I'm just an M.D.
Do you know Dr. Robert Towler...?
I know of him.
How is that?
Through, through his book.
What book is that?
Meth... Methodology and Technique...
...of Anesthesiology?
'Methodology and Techniques of Anesthesiology.' Yes.
How old are you?
I am seventyfour years old.
Uhhuh. Still practice a lot of medicine?
I'm on the staff of...
Yes, we've heard that. Doctor: you testify quite a bit against other physicians? Isn't that right? You, you're available for that? When you're paid to be there?
Sir. Yes. When a thing is wrong... as in this case, I am available. I am seventyfour years old, I am not boardcertified.
I have been practicing medicine for fortysix years and I know when an injustice has been done.
Do you, indeed. I'll bet you do. Fine. Fine. We'll save the court the time. We will admit the Doctor as an 'expert witness,' fine.
I did.
Objection.
You are aware of the penalties for perjury...?
It's a crime.
Yes. It is a crime. A serious crime.
I wouldn't do it.
You would not...?
No.
In fact, you've just taken an oath that you would not commit perjury. You've just sworn to that. Isn't that right?
Yes.
Just now...
Yes.
...sworn before God you would tell the truth?
Yes.
Now. I'd like to ask you something: four years ago, when you were working as a nurse, are you aware that Drs. Towler and Marx based their treatment of Deborah Ann Kaye on this chart that you signed...?
I...
And wasn't that an oath...? These are your initials here: K.C. When you signed this chart you took an oath. No less important than that which you took today. Isn't that right? Isn't that right...?
I... yes.
Then, please, which is correct? You've sworn today the patient ate one hour ago. Four years ago you swore she ate nine hours ago? Which is the lie. When were you lying?
I...
You know these doctors could have settled out of court. They wanted a trial. They wanted to clear their names.
They lied.
'They lied.' Indeed! When did they lie? And do you know what a lie is?
I do. Yes.
You swore on this form that the patient ate nine hours ago.
That's not my handwriting.
You've just said you signed it.
Yes, I, yes, I signed it, yes. But I, I didn't write that figure.
You didn't write that figure. And how is it that you remember that so clearly after four years?
Because I kept a copy. I have it right here.
...what in the world would induce you to make a photocopy of some obscure record and hold it four years? This is a... why? Why would you do that?
I thought I would need it.
And why, please tell us, would you think that?
After, after the operation, when that poor girl, she went in a coma. Dr. Towler called me in. He told me he had five difficult deliveries in a row and he was tired, and he never looked at the admittance form. And he told me to change the form. He told me to change the one to a nine. Or else, or else, he said... He said he'd fire me. He said I'd never work again... Who were these men...? Who were these men...? I wanted to be a nurse...
What are you doing here?
Mickey told me to come back to work.
...here's your mail, call Mrs. Doneghy...
...yes. Get her on the phone...
...that was a Dr. David Gruber's office...
Gruber...
Mickey told him to call. 'He's some very hotshot surgeon at Mass. Commonwealth. He wants to meet with you at seven tonight re testimony in the case of Deborah Ann Kaye. You meet him at the hospital.'
...he wants to testify...?
It looks that way.
You know what that would mean?
To get somebody from a Boston hospital to say he'll testify?
...a Mrs. Doneghy called... I told you that.
This is going to drive the ante up.
Frank Galvin's... who's calling please? Bishop Brophy's office...
That's the call that I'm waiting for.
What does it mean?
They want to settle. It means a lot of money.
Does that mean I'm back for awhile?
It's a generous offer, Mr. Galvin... ...nothing can make the woman well... but we try to compensate... to make a gesture...
How did you settle on the amount?
We thought it was just.
You thought it was just.
Yes.
Because it struck me how neatly 'three' went into the amount. Two Hundred Ten Thousand. That would mean I keep seventy.
That was our insurance company's recommendation.
Yes. It would be.
Nothing that we can do can make that woman well.
And no one will know the truth.
What is the truth?
That that poor girl put her trust in the hands of two men who took her life, she's in a coma, her life is gone. She has no family, she has no home, she's tied to a machine, she has no friends  and the people who should care for her: her Doctors, and you, and me, have been bought off to look the other way. We have been paid to look the other way. I came in here to take your money. I brought snapshots to show you. So I could get your money. I can't take it. If I take it. If I take that money I'm lost. I'm just going to be a rich ambulance chaser. I can't do it. I can't take it.
He was accused of jury tampering.
Accused. Not indicted. He resigned the firm. Divorced nineteen seventy. Galvin worked with Michael Morrissey until Morrissey retired in 'seventy eight. Since then he's been on his own. Four cases before the Circuit Court. He lost them all. He drinks.
Four cases in three years...
The man's an ambulance chaser...
...tell me about this case.
This is a nuisance suit. He's looking for small change. He's asking for six hundred thousand and betting we don't want to go to court.
No  we don't want this case in court.
Neither does he. That's where he loses. This man's scared to death to go to court. We only have to call his bluff.
I want to settle this thing and be done with it. I don't want the Archdiocese exposed.
No. Absolutely, and we're going to see that it is not.
So what I want to do is stop it here. I'm going to make him an offer. I want to do it myself. I want it to come from me.
All right. But let's keep the price down. I've called Ed Concannon. He recommends that we continue to respond as if we're going to trial.
If we were to go to trial, would we win the case?
Well, of course, it's always dangerous...
I know that answer. If we went to trial would we win?
Yes.
Why did he go to see Mary Rooney?
She's the only nurse who isn't testifying for the Doctors.
What did he find?
Nothing.
How good's your intelligence?
Very good.
And so what is the rest of his case aside from Dr. Thompson?
As far as we know, nothing.
Mr. Abraham...
Abrams...
Abrams. Yes. How are you today?
I'm fine.
Good. You ever been inside a hospital?
Yes.
Ah. How did they treat you?
Shelly, would you give Laura a quick hand with the "Meals on Wheels"?
I'm kind of busy, Norma.
You're not busy, sweetheart, now go.
Laura just took off. She asked me to do the run today. Should I do it?
What's with that Laura? Yeah, sure, take a look around. There's no one here anyway.
You're right. There's no one here.
There's no one here.
Norma, are you alright?
Come back as soon as you can.
If Leo comes here, he won't believe that I am out doing the "Meals on Wheels".
Don't worry, Shelly, I'll handle Leo.
Someone who knows how to clean knows where the object was before she started cleaning and then that object goes back to its exact same spot. Shelly, I know where everything in this house is. Sometimes on the road I mentally go through this whole house and picture where every item is.
Lay off the bennies, Leo.
Anybody can clean the surface of an object, but dirt can find its way anywhere. To really clean, you have to scrub below the surface. WHERE THE DIRT IS, SHELLY.
That's one thing you are going to learn, Shelly,  HOW TO CLEAN. It takes scrubbing, Shelly. There is no easy way. THIS IS WHERE WE LIVE, SHELLY.
As if I didn't know.
I'm going to show you how to wash this tile and then you're going to do it.
Come off it, Leo. I'm late for work...
What did you say?
When's the next business trip, big fella?
Soon. How about next time we party with the girlfriends you told me about?
I can arrange that. I like that.
What are you doing?
Who am I?
I don't know.
That's right.
What's wrong?
Nothing, I chickened out.
Hello, Laura. Hello Sarah. Where's my axe? "I'm hungry".
Oh, Leland.
Neither is mine. And can't we talk about something serious for a change.
This is serious. Mr. Benjamin Horne's got a delegation of Norwegians coming in next week and I want both of you to learn to introduce yourself. Sarah, you first.
Leland, what are you doing?
Look at this finger here.
Leland...
Laura didn't wash her hands before dinner. And look at this.
Did you get this from your lover?
They don't call them lovers in high school, Leland.
Bobby didn't give you this?
How would you know if Bobby didn't give her that?
Did Bobby give you that or is there someone new?
Leland leave her alone... She doesn't like that. Stop it.
How do you know what she doesn't like?
Oh, Leland, sit down and eat you dinner.
Oh, I'll sit down, but none of us are going to start eating till Laura goes and washes her hands.
Dad.
Hyggelig a mote dem. Jeg Heter Leland Palmer.
The Norwegians are coming next week and I want you to learn to say what I just learned in Norwegian. So you can talk to them. I want you to learn to say, "Hello, my name is Leland Palmer".
But my name isn't Leland Palmer.
Hi, honey, how's Donna?
Fine.
School?
...school's fine...
Sit down... sit down... Are you hungry?
Not really.
Let me see.
Dad...
Your hands are filthy... look, there is dirt way under this fingernail.
Who was that?
A friend from school.
A special friend?
Dad... Dad... Who was that? How do you know him? He looked familiar. Have I met him?
No, you haven't met him. Have you met him?
No.
We're late to get to your mother.
Just sit here for a moment. You seem very upset.
Guy just pulls up out of the blue... I mean... what is this world coming to?
Are you sure you're okay?
Yes.
Dad?
Yes.
Did you come home during the day last week?
No.
Oh, I thought I saw you.
You know, I did come home, come to think of it, on Thursday. I had a severe headache and I was driving in the neighborhood so I just darted in and out of the house. Where were you, Laura? I didn't see you?
I was down the street.
Laura. What's wrong this morning?
Stay away from me.
DON'T MAKE ME DO IT.
NO, YOU HAVE TO KILL ME.
I always thought you knew it was me.
NO! YOU CAN'T HAVE ME. KILL ME.
Can I take the car?
Sure honey, what's the hurry?
I forgot my books at school.
Laura.
What?
You lied to me about those school books. I found them upstairs on your bed.
What were you doing in my room?
I was looking for that blue sweater that you borrowed which I found balled up in the bottom of your closet. Now why did you lie to me? Where did you go?
I had to see Bobby. I know you really don't like Bobby, but there was a problem and I didn't think you would understand.
Oh, honey, you don't have to lie to me. Ever. You can tell me anything. I'll understand.
I'm sorry, Mom.
Now hurry, dinner's almost ready. Your father says he's starving.
Laura, now I can't find that blue sweater. Did you take it again?
Mom... what are you wearing?
My god, I am going to have another breakdown. God, god.
Mom, take it easy.
I hate asparagus.
Sure you do, it's good for you.
Where's Dad?
Ben asked him to stay late to plan for the Norwegians.
If it's okay with you I'm going to Bobby's to do my homework.
It's a school night... back by nine.
Good night, Mom.
Good night, sweetheart.
Josie, I think we should go public.
That would be wonderful, but it's only been a year since Andrew died.
What are you afraid of? What people think?
I don't want to offend the customs of your country.
Believe me, Josie, you would not offend the customs of this country. For instance, I don't eat fish eyes.
Fish eyes?
Even if it offended someone, I wouldn't eat a fish eye.
Why wouldn't you eat a fish eye, Harry?
I saw a guy eat a fish eye once in Seattle. He was digging through his food with his chopsticks for about five minutes till he found the fish eye and he dropped it into his throat. I guess it must have gotten stuck in his uvula because right away he started to have trouble. His throat began to flutter there like there was a wind blowing. And he couldn't swallow and they rushed to him and loosened his collar and they were asking him if he was alright and he started to turn blue and his eyes started to roll back into his head and he still couldn't get the fish eye out and they tried to do a Heimlich maneuver. I went over to him as they were preparing to do an emergency tracheotomy. They were over him with a knife when he suddenly shot the fish eye out of his throat and right onto the ceiling. Splat! It just stuck up there and spread out. It was about the size of a half dollar. And that's why I don't ever eat fish eyes.
I'm not saying it's right or wrong, it's just the way I feel. It's the custom thing I was thinking of. In America we don't use any part of the fish but the meat just to the side of the insides. We throw away the tail, the rest of the insides and the head.
I understand.
We throw away the whole head.
Johnny, Johnny... let your Daddy and your Uncle and Leland talk. Ben... Leland, we can play the French against the Norwegians. What do the French love more than anything?
Boating?
No.
Hiking?
No.
Eating?
You'd think so.
Sex?
You're getting warmer.
Trees?
Exactment. They are nuts about wood. They get goofy over trees.
History is on our side, Ben. It's no accident that the great explorers were named Hennepin, Nicollet, Marquette.
They were looking for wood.
James...
Laura, I'll meet you at 2:30 after phys. ed.
Okay.
Laura, do you love me?
Yes, I love you. I've told you, but it doesn't really matter.
Why? It does.
No, it doesn't... just kiss me.
It does matter. We're in love.
James, you don't know what you are talking about. Quit trying to hold on so tight. I'm gone... long gone like a turkey through the corn.
You're not a turkey. A turkey is one of the dumbest birds on earth.
Gobble, gobble, gobble.
Where were you last night? We were supposed to get together. You didn't show up.
You were supposed to show up. Maybe I wasn't.
We were supposed to be together.
How can I be together if I'm not together?
You're on somethin' again, aren't you?
James...
When am I going to see you?
I've got to see you.
Not now.
This afternoon?
Okay. Oh god, it's Johnny Horne's birthday today.
What about tonight?
I can't tonight.
What's going on?
I just can't, James. I can't do it.
What the hell is wrong with you?
That's right. There's no place left to go is there, James?
What do you mean?
You know it and I know it.
What is wrong with us?... We have everything.
Everything, but everything.
Oh, Laura.
"Oh, Laura..."
You always hurt the ones you love.
You mean the ones you pity.
Say anything you want... I know you love me and I love you.
I do love you. Let's get lost together.
Shit, maybe he'll kill you.
What?
When he finds out.
What?
Bobby killed a guy.
What are you talking about? Bobby didn't kill anybody.
You want to see...
See what?
Right. Open your eyes, James. You don't know me. Even Donna doesn't know me. Your Laura disappeared... It's just me now.
Baby, you know why? Cause it'll never get here.
Hey, Jacques...
No "Jacques". I am the Great Went.
I am The Muffin.
And what a muffin you have.
That's right. She called me. She even asked me what your fathers looked like...
What? She asked about my father?
But it wasn't him... she was after a huge guy, six foot four with a broken nose. She said he looked just like a boxer. Speaking of sandwiches... I think Bobby was arranging something for you... Speaking of arrangements... SPEAKING OF ARRANGEMENTS... Why don't you two come up to the cabin this week? Leo and I know that Santy Claus is coming to town... Thursday.
Right on time, baby.
Buy me a ticket to The Great Went.
We're on our way, Baby.
Let's go all the way.
Laura, you didn't come and see me today.
I couldn't it was Johnny Horne's birthday. I promised I'd be with him. I told you not to call me here.
A little trouble with your parents is the least of your worries and something I am certainly willing to put up with.
I'm not.
Did you make me a tape?
I already made you two tapes.
Laura, you have to deal with all of this.
I'm dealing with it, Doc. Big time. Maybe I'll make you a tape tomorrow. Goodnight.
Send me a kiss.
My secret diary. There are pages missing.
Who would do that?
Bob.
But Bob isn't real.
The pages are gone. That's real.
Maybe.
Bob is real. He's been "having" me since I was 12.
The diary was hidden too well. He's the only one who could know where it was. He's getting to know me, now. He's real. He speaks to me.
What does Bob say?
He wants to be me... or he will kill me.
No... No...
Oh, yes... yes...
You're not Bob are you, Harold? If you are, you can kill me right now. Kill me right now, if you are.
Laura, no, I'm not. I'm not Bob. Poor Laura. I wish I could help you.
I hate him, I hate it. Sometimes I love it. But now I'm afraid. I am so afraid.
But you're strong Laura... so much stronger than I... How can I help you? I can't. I can't even go outside.
What about James? Can't James help you? You two are so in love.
He's in love with a girl who's dead. It is dangerous for you to have it. I'm sorry.
I'm so sorry, Laura.
Hey, Pete. Can't believe your tank's dry up at the mill.
No... hell, no. Just got in the truck, started drivin', looked down at the gauge and saw a big "E" starin' at me.
You know what that Big "E" stands for? Big Ed's Gas Farm.
Yep. You're right. That's why I'm here.
What'll it be?
Fill 'er up.
You got it.
I haven't got it yet.
Nice night.
Yep... Yes... It is.
You missed somethin', Ed.
I did? I didn't see anything.
Yeah... look in here. Look at it from this angle.
Even this heavy work beats being at home with the old ball and chain.
Brother, I hear you talkin'.
If I am going to get through math today, you're going to have to bring me up to speed quick.
You didn't do your homework?
Noooo...
Okay, this test is going to be about the theorems I told you about last week. You remember the...
Don't tell me now. Tell me right before the test. I won't be able to remember long enough.
You graduating this year will be proof that miracles happen.
Thanks.
James called me last night looking for you.
When?
The usual, 9:15.
He probably wanted to drive over.
Were you with Bobby? Or are you two still fighting?
No, and yes. I don't know what I'm going to do about Bobby. I know he is seeing someone else and that's okay with me, and he thinks I'm seeing someone else and that's not okay with him.
Are you going to tell him about that "someone else"?
I don't know what to do.
You know what your problem is? You're just too adorable...
You know, I think you're right. I'm just too adorable.
Laura Palmer, you're just too adorable.
I'm just too adorable. I'm just too adorable.
Are you going to see James tonight?
Why are you suddenly so interested in who I am going to see at night? Nighttime is my time.
You're telling me, but only because you never let me in on any of it... you're not going to see Bobby, are you?
Maybe.
Oh god, Laura.
Well, why not?
Because Bobby is a loser, you said so yourself. He's a goon. James is the one. He loves you with that "lasting love"... "true love".
Yes, James is very sweet. Why don't you get out your violin, Donna?
Sweet? God, he's gorgeous.
James is very sweet and very gorgeous.
Do you think that if you were falling in space you would slow down after a while or go faster and faster?
Faster and faster. For a long time you wouldn't feel anything. Then you would burst into fire... forever.
Maybe I better start our homework.
Okay, I suppose I should go home.
Call me.
Sure. What do you want me to call you?
Call me anything just don't call me late for dinner.
Laura?
Donna, are you my best friend?
Of course...
What is it Laura? What's wrong?
I just want a friend. Just one friend for just one minute...
Laura, how about one friend for the rest of your whole life?
Yes, that's what I want. Thanks D.
Okay, L. I am your friend... always. But sometimes... lately... I feel that you don't like being around me because I am so uptight. No, I am uptight. I hate it... I don't want to be this way, but Laura I don't... I mean... I'm your friend no matter what way you are.
You know, even when I think about your face I get happier.
Do you want to talk?
No, I want to smoke.
I'm in a mess today, too. I'm thinking about doing it with Mike. What do you think?
Donna, you are such a crack up. You don't even like Mike. Is this what you are going to do to show me you are not uptight.
This is about sex, not like. Mom, Laura's here and I think I will have one of those huckleberry muffins. You want a muffin?
If I can smoke it.
You want a muffin?
Donna, you are a muffin.
Goodbye, Muffin.
No, you're the muffin.
Where are you going?
No place, fast. And you're not coming.
Come on, Laura. I'm your best friend.
Isn't tonight the night you are going to do it with Mike?
Laura, aren't you going to fix me a drink?
Where are the Cookies?
You mean Fred and Ginger?
Dancing.
If I had a nickel for every cigarette your mom smoked, I'd be dead.
Gotta go, Donna. I'll call you tomorrow.
What are you doing?
Nothing.
No. I don't need to take this to be your friend.
YES YOU DO, DONNA. What a downer you are!!!
Don't ever wear my stuff, don't ever wear my stuff. Never.
Okay, I won't wear your stuff... Why can't I wear your stuff?
Jacques, help me get her home. NOW!
I won't wear your stuff. I promise.
Not you, Donna, not you.
I can't remember anything about last night. Is there something I should remember?
No, you should forget about last night.
Laura, I am your friend.
I know you are and you don't have to do anything crazy to prove it.
You're not mad at me?
No.
I feel so bad. I had nightmares all night long. They all knew you at that place.
What can I tell you?
How did the car get back here?
WE got it back, that's all.
How did I get in the house? How did I get into my bed?
I can't help you there.
Was I wearing something of yours and you got mad at me?
All my things have me in them. I don't want you to be like me.
But I love you, Laura.
And I love you, too. But don't wear my stuff.
Why do you do it, Laura?
Cause I like it.
That was really something. That dancing girl. What did it mean?
Code. If you work with Gordon you learn that right away.
Code, I've heard a lot about this.
Sort of shorthand.
Shorthand. Really?
We're heading into a difficult situation.
How do you figure?
I'll explain it to you. Do you remember Lil's dance?
Lil was wearing a sour face.
What do you mean?
Her face had a sour look... that means we're going to have trouble with the local authorities. They are not going to be receptive to the FBI.
Oh, the uncle is missing.
Not Cole's Uncle but probably the sheriff's uncle in federal prison.
So the sheriff had got an Uncle who's committed a serious crime.
Right, which is probably why Lil was wearing a red wig meaning we are headed into a dangerous situation. Let me ask you something, Stanley, did you notice anything about the dress?
The dress she was wearing had been altered to fit her. I noticed a different colored thread where the dress had been taken in. It wasn't her dress or she must have lost some weight.
Gordon said you were good. The tailored dress is our code for drugs. Did you notice what was pinned to it?
A blue rose.
Very good, but I can't tell you about that.
What did Gordon's tie mean?
What? That's just Gordon's bad taste.
Why couldn't he have just told you all these things?
He talks loud. And he loves his code.
I see. He does talk loud.
Gordon would not have sent us to Deer Meadow without thinking it was a high priority situation.
It must be a high priority situation.
Solved the Whiteman Case with this.
That's what I heard.
No one could find those splinters without a machine like this. And no one had a machine like this.
That's good.
Yes, it is good. What do you think is in these other drawers?
I don't know, Sam.
Maybe, later we could take a look.
Sure, but let's finish up with this first.
Crushed skull. Probable cause repeated blows to the back of the head with an obtuse angled blunt object. Subject looks to be between 16 and 18 years of age.
Cole said she was 17.
There appears to be a contusion under the ring finger of her left hand.
Oh.
Accidental?
Agent Desmond, would you hold the finger for me. There's something up there.
What is it?
It is a piece of paper with the letter "T" imprinted on it. Take a look.
Geez, Agent Desmond, it's threethirty in the morning. Where are we going to sleep?
We're not. You and I are going to get some food.
Yes, it's been several hours since we've eaten. I didn't realize that so much time had past, did you, Agent Desmond?
Agent Desmond, it's...
It's late, Sam.
It's not late, it's early. Really early.
I doubt it was drugs, more likely a problem with a nerve. I could recheck the arm for injuries, but for real nerve work we are going to have to take the body back to Portland.
I think that's a good idea.
I think we should see the sun rise at the Canyon Trailer Park.
Are you speaking to me in a code?
No, Sam, I'm speaking plainly and I mean just exactly what I say.
In that case, we should go to the Canyon Trailer Park.
She lived alone.
She must have known someone.
You better dust this place, Sam.
I'll get my kit.
Take a look at this.
She's wearing a ring.
My guess is there isn't enough detail in the photo to get an idea of the design on the ring, but we should do a blowup of this anyway.
May I see the magnifying glass, Agent Desmond? There doesn't seem to be enough detail in the photo to ascertain the design on the ring.
I couldn't help but notice that you had a suspicion that Deputy Cliff was the murderer. You did think that, didn't you, Agent Desmond?
He's not the murderer. But he's a bozo.
Yes, he is like a clown.
When he says, "Discussion", how do you take that, Agent Desmond?
I don't take it, Sam. I give it.
One thing that has been troubling me. That lamp at the diner. Do you think they were working on it for esthetic reasons or was their work due to faulty wiring?
Faulty wiring.
Esthetics are subjective, aren't they, Agent Desmond? I'm Sam Stanley. If you ever need me.
Thanks, Sam, for the good work. You have a good eye for detail.
We do notice things, don't we, Agent Desmond? Are you going back to the trailer park for the Blue rose?
Take a good look around. There's nobody in this place  you're meetin' the reason why. What'll it be?
How come Jack let's you work here?
Jack and I are united in holy matrimony.
Say no more.
Federal Bureau of Investigation, Special Agent Chet Desmond. I'd like to ask you a few questions about Teresa Banks. Jack said you knew her. How well?
She only worked here a month. Nice girl. Never seemed to get here on time though. Ask me she had a little problem with 
Came looking for a job with a friend of hers. Pretty girl. Could've been her sister.
What happened to her?
There was only one job. Teresa took the job. Her friend took a hike. Never saw her again.
Did you ever see Teresa take cocaine?
No.
Do you take cocaine, Irene?
No, I do not. I never took cocaine or any other drugs. I don't take drugs.
He's with me. Anything you would like to tell us about Teresa Banks that would help us out?
I've thought about that. I think her death is what you would call a "freak accident".
Thanks.
You know, I never told anybody, but once for about three days, just before her time, Teresa's arm went completely dead.
What do you mean?
Her left arm. It was numb. She said she couldn't use it. Said it had no feeling. Probably from the drugs she was taking. I just thought I ought to tell you.
Thanks.
Had the FBI here once before. Back in the fifties when Hap was running the place.
Where's Hap?
He's dead  good and dead.
Sorry to hear it.
He didn't suffer.
I'd like to ask you a few questions about Teresa Banks
Sheriff Cable's already asked me a few questions about Teresa Banks. She worked nights for a month. That's it.
Any friends?
No.
Ever see her with someone else?
No.
Did she ever mention any friends?
No. Ask Irene over there.
Where is the ring?
Someone else has it now.
That would indicate that it's the future.
The later events have never been kept a secret.
Where am I? And how can I leave?
You are here and there is no place to go...
Agent Chet said he wanted to check the trailer court one more time. He had me drive the van with the body back here. Which we did. It was 105 miles.
Anything else?
Did Gordon show you a woman named Lil?
I'm up to speed, Stanley.
Agent Chet wouldn't tell me what the Blue Rose meant.
And neither will I.
Oh, alright. You know, I liked Agent Desmond. He had his own M.O.
I cracked the Whiteman case with this.
Stanley, I heard all about it.
No one could've found those splinters without a machine like this and no one has a machine like this.
Tell me about the letter.
Take a look at this. Chet and I found it under Teresa Banks' ring fingernail.
And no one found the ring?
No, sir, we did not.
What is it, Gordon?
COOP, AGENT CHET DESMOND HAS DISAPPEARED. GONE LIKE THE WIND IN DEER MEADOW.
Phillip?
COOPER, MEET THE LONG LOST PHILLIP JEFFRIES. YOU MAY HAVE HEARD OF HIM AT THE ACADEMY.
HE'S GONE.
What?
ALBERT, COME BACK HERE. HE'S GONE CALL THE FRONT DESK.
QUICKLY MEN... WORD ASSOCIATION, COOP. WHAT ARE YOU THINKING ABOUT RIGHT NOW?
Teresa Banks.
ALBERT?
It was a year ago today that Teresa Banks was killed. I'm wondering if the murderer will ever kill again.
ALBERT, WHY TYLENOL?
Yes...
CHET, I AM CALLING YOU FROM PORTLAND... OREGON.
OK, Gordon.
NO, IT'S OREGON, PORTLAND, OREGON. IT'S REGIONAL BUREAU CHIEF COLE. OUT IN PORTLAND OREGON. I NEED YOU OUT HERE, CHET.
OK, Gordon.
OREGON. A YOUNG GIRL HAS BEEN MURDERED. SEVENTEEN YEARS OLD. NAMED TERESA BANKS.
Okay, Gordon!!!
GOT A MAP OF THE ENVIRONS OF THE YAKIMA INDIAN RESERVATION WITH YOUR NAME ON IT. BETTER BRING A POLE.
Smell something fishy, huh?
I'VE GOT A SURPRISE FOR YOU, CHET. SOMETHING INTERESTING THAT I WOULD LIKE TO SHOW YOU. ARRANGEMENTS ARE BEING MADE AND I WILL MEET YOU AT THE PORTLAND, AIRPORT.
Congratulations. I heard about that.
YOUR SURPRISE, CHET. HER NAME IS LIL.
GOOD LUCK, CHET. SAM, YOU STICK WITH CHET, HE'S GOT HIS OWN M.O. MODUS OPERANDI. YOU CAN REACH ME AT THE PHILADELPHIA OFFICES. I AM FLYING OUT TODAY.
Right, Gordon. We'll be in touch.
Okay, that's it. I've had enough of the waiting room now.
Oh.
What are you doing here in the trailer court, Deputy?
Maybe I just live here, what do you think about that?
Can I ask you where you were the night Teresa Banks was murdered?
You can tell J. Edgar that I was at a party and I got fifteen fuckin' witnesses.
Did you know Teresa Banks?
Got a couple of cups of coffee at Hap's from her. That's it. By the way where do you get off questioning a lawman? I could ask you the same question.
No you couldn't.
You try that you little monkey.
I think I'll take off my badge as well.
Federal Bureau of Investigation, Special Agent Chet Desmond and Agent Sam Stanley. Sorry to disturb you, but we would like to see Teresa Banks' trailer, please.
More popular than Uncle's Day at a whorehouse. GOD DAMN, THAT MORNING SUN IS BRIGHT! BLUE BRIGHT.
Mrs. Simmons owns the trailer and she lives in town. Teresa rented it about a month ago.
Did she have someone with her?
Right. She had a friend with her. The friend took off.
Was there an argument?
Not that I know of. But arguments do happen, don't they?
Yes they do. Did she have visitors?
No, hey, I already told this whole damn thing to Sheriff "NotQuite Able"... Here's the trailer now.
You weren't kiddin'. This stuff's got the sting of the fortyeight hour blend.
That's right. That's the best coffee you're gonna get around here.
Is there a golf course around here?
Not a lot around here, no. Got some clubs, but not very many fellas with balls.
Thanks for your help, Carl. Sorry we woke you up.
That's alright. I was having a bad dream. I was dreamin' about a joke with no punchline.
GOD. I'm beginning to lose faith in the United States Government and that includes the telephone system. Don't you folks talk to one another. That's her trailer there and I haven't touched a god damn thing. Agent Chet Desmond come by a second time and asked too see Deputy Cliff Howard's trailer ...which I showed him. I went back to my trailer... After that I never saw him again.
Thank you, Carl.
That's not the way to Cliff's trailer. I told you.
I am not going to Cliff's trailer.
Well, where are you going?
I am going over here.
God damn, you people are confusing.
What was here, Mr. Rodd?
A trailer was here. What the hell do you think?
Can you tell me who's trailer it was... and who stayed in the trailer?
An old woman and her grandson.
Can you tell me what their names were?
Chalfont. Weird. Chalfont was the name of the folks that rented the space before they did. Two Chalfonts.
Is that Agent Desmond's vehicle?
Yep, it sure is.
I'm here to investigate the murder of Teresa Banks.
Well, little fella, we don't need any outside help here. I don't like you people sniffin' around my neck of the woods. In fact, when the state boys called me about a "J. Edgar" coming up I think I said, "So what?"
Your behavior is not funny and is wasting the time of the Federal Government.
You're lucky I am not wasting you.
Well, little fella, let me put it this way. The operative word here would be "Federal". With or without the semantics of all this, I am now ordering you to release all pertinent information concerning Teresa Banks, both while living and deceased.
A basic kill. Banks was a drifter and nobody knew her. My boys have been all over this. It's a dead end.
That's why we're here, Sheriff Cable. Where's the body?
Out back in our morgue.
It's 4:30. We close at five.
We've got our own clock. We'll lock up.
What the hell is that thing doing out there? You're not taking that body anywhere.
We're taking the body back to Portland and there's not a thing you can do about it.
Maybe not a thing, but maybe two things.
Teresa Banks had a ring. Any idea what happened to it?
We got a phone, here, that's got a little ring.
Sam, get the body and put it in the van. Sheriff Cable, where were you the night Teresa Banks was murdered?
My alibi is as strong as these bands of steel.
Where were you for the last hour? I've been lookin' for you?
I was right behind you, but you're too dumb to turn around. If he turned around he might get dizzy and fall down.
I'M NOT KIDDIN'. WHERE WERE YOU? WHO WERE YOU WITH?
Get lost Bobby.
Oh, yeah? You'll be callin' soon and maybe I'm not gonna be there.
Oh, come on, sweetie, give me one of your smiles.
I'm nearly out.
It's taken care of, babe. You and I are going to make a big score tonight. This will tide you over.
Thank you, Bobby. A big score?
Maybe our biggest. I'll see you two doors down from your place at 11:00.
Don't be late.
Here he comes.
Here he comes.
This isn't Mike. Is this Mike?
Bobby... ssshhhh... you killed Mike.
Babe, I'm on my way out to the woods to divvy up the product. Put this cash in your safety deposit box... It's ten thousand dollars.
You killed Mike.
Bad news, kid, it was baby laxative.
What was?
The stuff we got last night.
Baby laxative? We can't snort baby laxative.
No shit... We killed a guy for baby laxative.
What is the world coming to when you kill a guy for baby laxative?
Don't get funny with me again.
I'm not... Bobby I'm gonna need some more stuff. I mean it. I'm out.
Yeah, and I'm gonna need that ten thousand dollars back.
Sure, but I can't get it till after school tomorrow.
Let's ditch this place and party.
Not tonight. Just give me something to take home to hold me over till tomorrow.
Why? Why not? Where are you goin'?
We can do it right here.
Bobby...
Bobby's got it.
Thanks, Bobby. And my little round friends, too.
No... No, go away.
I'm glad you let me talk to you. You used to not let me talk to you.
Go away. I am not talking to you.
I want you.
SEE WHAT WE CAN DO TO DONNA?
NO! GOD, NO...
That's not important. I will tell you what is important. The fan will soon be starting.
Who are you? Who are you REALLY?
I am the One who wants to breathe thru your nose and taste thru your mouth.
No.
I want you to kill for me.
No. Never. You'll have to kill me.
I want you to kill for me.
Cooper, the ooze of mumbo jumbo is rising up above our heads. Do you honestly think Cole's practice of word association works?
The very fact that we are talking about word association means we are in a space that was opened up by our practice of word association. The world is a hologram, Albert.
Yes, it's a great big psychedelic circus ride, isn't it, Cooper?
Albert.
You said, "Teresa Banks", so you think something is going on somewhere in the world right now that is connected with her murder?
Yes. Either right now or right when I thought of it. The name and memory of Teresa Banks is haunting me. Lately I have been filled with a knowingness that the murderer will strike again. Because it is only a feeling, I am powerless to stop it. And another thing, Albert, when the next murder happens you will help me solve it.
Let's test it for the record. Will the next victim be a man or a woman?
A woman.
What color hair will she have?
Blonde.
Tell me some other things about her.
She's in high school. She's sexually active. She's on drugs. She's crying out for some help.
You're describing half the high school girls in America. What is she doing right now?
She is preparing a great abundance of food.
You're a llawyer? I... I haven't had my meds, or mmy vital signs ttaken yet. I...
Mr. Stipe. A young man named Jimmy Chin was shot to death eight years ago, in Chinatown. Do you remember talking to the police?
That guy they arrested  he was the wrong gguy.
I think what Eddie wants to say is 
No! They ggot the wrong guy! I saw it! The killer wasn't Chinese.
CIA?
Telephone. I suppose you don't know the phone company killed Kennedy because he was trying to bbreak it up  and they'll never let that happen. They control everything: what you say in the mouthpiece is never exactly what comes out the other end, and 
The phone company was broken up.
And you bbelieve that.
Mr. Ortega, you've known the defendant at Ossining Correctional for how long?
I would tend to plead the Fifth.
Five years.
Mr. Ortega... What is "La Compania"?
A Cubano army, basically... inside and outside prisons.
And its purpose?
Fighting the Aryan Warriors and the Black Guerrillas, basically.
For control of the prison drug trade?
I would tend to plead the Fifth.
Do the rival gangs compete for control of the prison drug trade?
Yeah, we do some of that.
What is your rank within La Compania?
"Name, rank and serial," Mr. Ortega. Let's not hide behind the Fifth.
I'm a soldado in the GWing Regiment.
And what does a soldado  a soldier  do?
A soldado, he runs messages and materiel between the regiments...
"Materiel"? What do you mean by that?
Cigarettes, candy bars... PCP, crack...
If a member of the Aryan Brothers tries to cut in on your distribution?
...A soldado, he takes care of it.
By "takes care of," you mean "kills".
That's right.
Mr. Ortega, what is Shu Kai Kim's rank within La Compania?
Soldado.
Isn't it unusual for an Asian to be accepted into a Cuban prison gang?
Shu's the only one I know of...
And why was an exception made?
Chinatown. Sounded pretty cold...
You mean to say Mr. Kim told you that he murdered Jimmy Chin?
What do you want?
I'm Roger Baron. I work with Edward Dowd.
What were you... Why were you at Shu's trial this afternoon?
 What trial?
I followed you here from court.
I knew Jimmy Chin. The boy who was shot. Okay?
...And you were at the trial to... to see that justice was done?
That's right.
Then it was your idea to have Chuckie Roeder scare Eddie off the case?
 Why don't you ask Chuckie?
Chuckie OD'd, Mrs. Esparza. He's dead.
Look. Mister 
 Roger 
You mustn't talk to Art. You mustn't tell Art that I was at the trial. Do you hear me?
You read Eddie's Chase Manhattan Bombing summation in the Leftist Law anthology?
 Eddie told you?
My skiptrace turned up two Cecil Stipes. One's in Butte, Montana. Other's at Riverhead Veterans Psychiatric.
I'll take odds on Cecil Number Two.
So what'd this guy do? Snitch off a dealer?
You getting this?
 Every word.
But they've still got Laura Gordon  and she was the closest, about 20 feet from the killer.
It's okay. It was always like that.
Shouldn't one of us...?
No  leave him be. It's better for everyone.
Edward T. Dowd.
Don Reynard.
Of course you know Dean Rabin, one of my Assistant D.A.s. Dean generally handles nuisance cases like the... what's the man's name?
Shu Kai Kim.
You won't remember this, but in '72 I was one of several prosecutors assigned to the Black PantherPolice Shootout. We had a whole team, and you walked into court by yourself and kicked our collective butt. So what've you been up to since then?
This and that.
My staff tells me it's been mostly drug pushers... I said that can't be the same Edward Dowd.
It's in the area of narcotics, Mr. Reynard, that the government tramples on the Fourth Amendment.
Let's not drag the Constitution into this.
I'm sorry if I've ruined your day, Mr. Reynard. But my client's had a rough eight years behind bars and 
Your client is guilty. Don't dick around with me.
Back in the Seventies I spent years putting away gangsters in a Colombian syndicate called "the Ochoa". These guys are very dangerous, Ed. When I hear that a smalltime dope lawyer is conniving to spring one of these guys, I see red.
I'd have that checked, Mr. Reynard.
Now maybe you got this case reopened because you see yourself as a thorn in society's side, or you want to walk into any restaurant in Chinatown and get free dumplings...
Are you implying that my motives are less than sincere?
Yes, but that's not the issue. What's on your wish list, Ed? Pleading Kim out to first degree man on both homicides, with an agreed sentence of 15 to life running concurrent? Come on... What're you looking for here?
What am I looking for? You're the one talking deal.
Friday's the dropdead date on the offer.
Please don't bullshit me, Mr. Reynard. You've got witness problems, you've got proof problems...
You're my only problem, Ed. What does it take to make you go away?
I see: He'd walk out next month.
That's right.
We reconvict, your man's looking at 25 years on two counts, served consecutively. So what I'd like to ask, Ed, is: Are you joking?
I never joke about waiving a client's Sixth Amendment right to trial.
You're pissing me off again, Ed.
You know you're very tense, Mr. Reynard. Y'oughta take a week off, fly the wife and kids to Oahu.
But now you've strayed from your area of expertise  dope  into street assassins. A subject on which you're dangerously ignorant.
But I'm a quick study. Tell your Deputy D.A.  Rabin?  that I'll see him in court.
No, Mr. Dowd, you'll see me in court. I'm prosecuting this case.
I'll prosecute anyone who fucks up. If that makes me look racist, it's a tradeoff I'll live with, Ed.
That's big of you, Bob.
Isn't it a fact that the "six other Asian men" in the lineup were all of the classic Mongoloid type, whereas Shu has the distinct facial bone structure of a Korean?
Objection. The witness is not an expert in racial classification.
Isn't it a standard trick to pack a lineup with men who resemble each other but look different than the suspect, so the suspect will stand out for the eyewitnesses?
Argumentative.
Isn't it unusual for a man who's just committed a murder in plain sight to bring the weapon back to his apartment?
Calls for speculation.
You don't speak any Chinese dialects? Then you get your intelligence from snitches?
Badgering.
To the best of your recollection, were you sober when you performed the tests?
Objection.
Your Honor, that's trial by ambush!
We just discovered him, your Honor! His appearance is critical to a fair presentation of our case! He is an inmate at Ossining Correctional and 
 Objection, your Honor! This case has no connection with any subsequent act my client may be charged with!
The witness will substantiate Mr. Kim's modus operandi. It's circumstantial evidence in the case at hand!
The witness is recalcitrant, your Honor  I had to personally make a body attachment this morning  it took two Marshalls to drag him here!
The great personal sacrifices endured by Mr. Reynard have no bearing on the legal issues, your Honor  !
Your Honor, I know as much about these gangs as anyone; I'm well aware of the secrecy in which their machinations are cloaked... I assure you this witness offers the court a rare opportunity to place the defendant's crime 
 alleged crime 
 in a context.
 Can't Mr. Dowd find his own expert witness, your Honor?
I'd need a continuance. Three weeks at least.
Yes, Mr. Dowd.
Didn't this investigation, with its attendant publicity, catapult you into the office you now hold?
If I were sitting where I normally sit, I would say "Calls for speculation."
Did you do any handson work or did you just supervise, from on high?
Mr. Dowd, I was personally involved with all phases  and principals  of the investigation.
And who were the detectives who assisted you, Mr. Reynard?
Lou Sklaroff, Vin Badalato, Dave Montell.
The same three detectives on the Jimmy Chin case.
In those days, they often worked as a team.
And who was Arturo Esparza?
I don't think I know that name.
 But you just said you were personally involved with all the principals of the investigation.
I can't be expected to remember the name of every informant eight years after the fact.
I didn't say he was an informant. But since you mentioned it, wasn't Esparza your primary informant?
You're trespassing into the area of witness protection, Mr. Dowd. Such showboating puts lives at risk.
Isn't it true that without Esparza, you had no investigation?
I think you're a dangerous man, Mr. Dowd.
I hope so, Mr. Reynard.
No.
No? Then what did he say?
'lo, Cecil.
Seecil.
Seecil. I'm Eddie Dowd, this is Roger Baron. We're lawyers.
Oh come on, Cecil.
Hey, Chinese people have this energy field that vibrates at a particular frequency.
I did two tours in 'Nam...
Good. Now we're going to take an affadavit from you, but only concerning the facts of the Chinatown shooting. We honestly don't give a shit about the Kennedy assassination.
Are you willing to testify that the man you saw shoot Jimmy Chin was not the man the cops arrested?
They ggot the wrong gguy.
When the D.A. hears I filed the writ, he'll send someone here, maybe claiming to be a journalist. That person will ask you lots of questions. Just be truthful, Cecil, okay? To all of us?
I always ttell the truth. That's why I'm here.
...You told the Desk Sergeant you were certain Mr. Kim wasn't the killer? You left your telephone number?
Yyes, sir.
Did the police make any attempt to phone you, to follow up?
No, ssir.
Thank you, Mr. Stipe.
I'd llike to answer the question.
Mr. Rabin has no right to 
My mother find you?
That's right.
Figures.
Want to tell me what went down here?
Racist asshole came at me.
Exactly what happened then?
I killed the motherfucker.
...Okay...
An Aryan Warrior with black teardrops painted on his face.
"Painted"?
But why would a guy would do that? Paint black teardrops on his face?
I guess he... wanted you to think he was... somebody he wasn't.
But why?
Maybe... because someone's afraid.
Afraid of what?
I don't know. The truth, maybe.
 About what?
About Chinatown. What went down.
What went down?
You tell me, man.
No. You tell me, Shu.
How can I tell you what I don't know!
You can't. So tell me what you do know  say it!
I don't know shit, man! Goddammit 
Well I know that you're innocent, Shu  even if you forgot.
No.
"No," what?
...I'm dying out there.
It's okay, Eddie.
Quite a bit you didn't tell me.
When I joined up I took an oath of secrecy. I told you what you needed to know.
I didn't need to know that a man I'm defending on a gangmurder rap is a prison soldier who kills over drugs?
It was selfdefense.
Jimmy Chin? Was that selfdefense too?
 How could I help you?
By trusting me. Shit, man...
When you leave this place you're going out to dinner or a movie or get laid. Where's our bond? I'm going back to my cell and wait to die. So tell me: Where's our bond?
For awhile we had this dream we were innocent. That was our bond... but then we woke up. And now I'd like to hear everything.
Murder witness.
You're doing a murder case?
It hasn't been that long.
Stipe was just one of four eyewitnesses who came forward, Kitty. Y'oughta start looking for the others...
Eddie, I'm not working on this case. You boys have fun.
Lemme guess. Some corporate V.P.'s banging his secretary over lunch and you have to focus your camera and plug in your little tape recorder.
Beats getting paid in twenties by slimedogs selling angel dust to high school seniors.
Kitty, where exactly do you place the microphone to catch the most incriminating moans?
Just which Constitutional amendment protects our right to peddle PCP?
Forget it. You've blown your chance to participate in this case, Kitty.
I'm kicking myself, Eddie... Right out of here.
Start looking into the Joe Boys  who assigned the hits in 1980, what rank generally did the hits... Your extensive law enforcement contacts should be of some use.
I was never politically correct enough for Comrade Dowd.
I embellished.
"Dowd also reports that his team of private investigators..."?
I embroidered.
"...are close to naming the man they believe actually killed Jimmy Chin"?
I lied.
So there goes your theory about the Joes giving up Shu to protect their trigger man.
But I like that theory. And since I'm not putting Twerp Professor on the stand, and since I don't have a better theory, I'm sticking with that theory. Meantime I want pictures of the Joes. What'll you bet there was a guy in the gang looked enough like Shu to fool the eyewitnesses!
I've phoned every art supply retailer and wholesaler in the Tristate area. No one's heard of Chuckie Roeder.
Have you considered that Chuckie Roeder's not calling himself Chuckie Roeder these days? Get his mugshot from one of the many law officers who've got hotpants for you... then canvass those art supplies places. We're gonna win this one, Kitty, but ya gotta believe...
A fucking wheelchair?
I didn't put him in a wheelchair. Reynard did. He can get around without one  it's all in my report.
I don't have time to read every word in every report, I'm too busy getting killed in court... Meantime my crackerjack investigator can't find the goddam art supplies store where ChuckiefuckingRoeder works!
 Find him?
Eddie, these things take time. Particularly at this hour...
The Joe Boys in 1980...!
A number of them are dead, three are in prison, one's a waiter... Two  you'll enjoy this  two are actually members of the Chamber of Commerce.
I haven't thanked you for your work, Kitty. You're doing good work.
I'm a professional, Eddie. Getting paid is all the thanks I require.
I haven't paid you.
Right.
Got any booze in the house?
You don't drink "booze".
You do.
Eddie, if I wanted to make love with you again, I'd do it sober.
Eddie this is silly... are we supposed to pretend nothing's happened in the last ten years and 
Nothing has. But that's all changing.
Eddie... A guilty client's not the end of the world...
EXACTLY!
Eddie... go home. Get some sleep.
I don't need sleep!
I need sleep. Some of us are mere mortals.
Screw you too, Kitty.
You're the police expert in Chinatown gangs?
...For ten years, now.
Do you speak Cantonese, Mandarin, or both?
 Me? Neither.
Pardon... Which dialect do you speak?
Neither.
They're Chinamen who speak English. We call them informants.
And I call your testimony hearsay. I have no more questions for you.
We have a full caseload, Rog.
Right, I forgot... We're pledged to protect every midlevel drug dealer in the Tristate area. It's an awesome responsibility.
I don't venerate drug dealers, Roger. To the contrary.
Of course.
...through use of informants, eavesdropping, unreasonable search and seizure...!
Right. You're right.
Damn right I'm right.
It's just... I leave behind friends, family, a coupla good job offers in Chicago and in three dizzying weeks I've helped acquit a coke dealer, a speed dealer 
I specialize, Roger...
 an angel dust dealer 
I'm not a kid anymore, I can't be all over the map 
 a speed manufacturer 
So go take your job on Wall Street.
Don't tell me where to work. I moved to New York to work for Edward Dowd. But I can't believe that Edward Dowd has nothing better to do these days than invoke exalted legal issues to get off guilty little 
Hey. You plan to be a criminal defense attorney, know this going in: Everybody's guilty.
Ten years is a long time.
Look  I'm tired, I'll see you in the morning, Eddie.
Where?
Ossining Correctional Facility. Sing Sing. Everybody's innocent there, man... Just ask 'em...
Kim got busted at 19 for burglary. At 20 he was convicted in the shooting death of a young Chinese gang lord... The prosecution claimed Kim did it to get into "the Joe Boys"?
Chinatown street gang.
Kim denied it. But he admitted the gun was his, and he got life. Seems to have been an okay prisoner for eight years, til the... incident with Duane Lindeman.
 The Nazi he knifed?
At the trial, you said you were at your apartment that night. Alone.
 Remember?
...So what would we claim? He stabbed Duane Lindeman in selfdefense?
With two knives taped to his hands? Forget it, Rog.
I feel like I've been mugged... Guy scared the shit out of me. You made your point, Eddie... I'm relieved we're not taking the case.
We're taking the other case.
What other case?
Eight years ago. The Chinatown hit.
Some gang punk gets wasted in front of the tourists. The mayor pressures the cops. The cops pressure the rival gang  the Joe Boys. The Joes give up Shu Kai Kim  the schmuck kid from Korea who's been pestering 'em to get in.
You really think that's what happened?
I don't know but it makes one hell of an opening statement.
 Easy as that, huh?
Easy? No... We have to find some piece of evidence that got buried, to reopen the sucker.
...Are you sure we want that?
When did you start working for the goddam D.A.?
Eddie... I don't know about this...
Eddie... What's a DD5?
A Complaint FollowUp form.
 Listen: "November 5, 1980. Cecil Stipe walked into 5th Precinct. Says he witnessed Chin shooting, saw suspect's picture in Post. Says Shu Kai Kim wrong man."
"Cecil Stipe"? Have we seen any affadavit with that name?
That DD5.
What, the lunatic who 
"Cecil Stipe." Find it.
Do you have to do that?
"Have to"? No...
Shoulda told the one about Shu being the bastard child of Mother Theresa.
Saving it for the Sunday Times.
His name is Chuckie Roeder. But something's very weird.
 You found his mugshot?
They're just frightened, fuckedup losers that prison fucked up worse.
I didn't ask for a closing argument.
There's no one else to talk to. The tattoos were phony!
 Yeah?
So an upstanding member of the Aryan Warriors wouldn't paint them on. They take those teardrops seriously  they're badges of courage, of honor. Only their most vicious killer elite get to wear them...!
I feel much better now.
Hey, Clyde Gruner sold these guys a pound of crystal meth at cost. We're Clyde's buddies, it's cool. Next exit.
Uh, Eddie? The, um, ballistics guy, George...? He called, and... His tests show that Shu's gun fired the bullet that killed Jimmy Chin.
George is a fucking burnout case. I didn't want him on the stand anyway. Get more names from Billy.
A fucking wheelchair?
A spinal injury, in the line of duty. It was in Kitty's report...
Eddie Dowd.
Roger Baron.
Goddam it... the little punk bests me again, I get thrown down and lectured at and where the hell were you?
1530 Rivington Street.
 What?
Chuckie's address. I sneaked a peek at the Rolodex.
You sneaked a peek at the Rolodex. Nice.
So what're we gonna do?
...What do you mean?
Well, I mean, Roeder's gone, now... A dead end. Believe me, I'm sorry too, but...
But what?
I've heard from the last ballistics expert on the list. It's an even ten who say Shu's gun killed Jimmy Chin!
That's why I hate experts.
Eddie... it's one thing to compare Clyde Gruner to Jesus Christ. It's even okay to claim that Shu Kai Kim is just slightly holier than the Pope... as long as you don't really believe it!
Hey  you believe what you want. Shu Kai Kim is innocent.
 Eddie...
You know how I know? 'Cause Reynard says he's guilty, and Reynard's full of shit! Look 
You're carrying that around like it was a picture of your girlfriend! I don't want to see your heart broken when this case crashes and burns!
That's not gonna happen. I'm gonna create reasonable doubt. Buckle your seatbelt and watch me work.
But Roeder's dead. Ballistics says it's Shu! We don't have one witness  unless we put Cecil Stipe on the stand...
I'm not that desperate.
I am. Eddie  we've got nothing.
I've got a meeting in Chinatown.
Let's get a cab.
 Roger  ?
Eddie  it's Art Esparza!
What's Art Esparza?
I think he hired Shu to kill Jimmy Chin... It wasn't a Chinatown gang hit  Jimmy Chin and Art's wife were lovers! She just about told me...!
You phoned up Art Esparza's wife?
I followed her from the courthouse.
 What?
I've seen this picture before.
They could've been brothers. It's why the eyewitnesses picked Shu.
Christ... Shu is innocent.
"The killer wasn't Chinese"... Cecil Stipe was right. .!
Everyone else was wrong and the one fucking lunatic was right!
...Jesus!
Least we'd already be at the Morgue.
How long did it take Badalato to drive Jimmy Chin's body from Chinatown to the morgue?
... An hour. That's why I thought the morgue was on the other side of town.
Exactly what information led you to arrest my client just twoandahalf hours after the shooting took place?
We had a description of the suspect.
A "description"? What, Asian male 18 to 30, black hair, brown eyes?
We had information bearing on Mr. Kim's desire to gain admission into the Joe Boys by assassinating a member of a rival gang.
Didn't this "information" come from the Joe Boys themselves  did they not all but hand you Shu Kai Kim, a Korean, an outsider?
You're implying that I planted a gun?
Not at all 
Kim's prints were all over it  He admitted it was his gun, f'r godsake!
Your Honor, the witness' response was nonresponsive... I ask you to strike it from the record...!
You see that? You wanna be like that?
No. No...
You fucking swear to shut up!
Come now. Did you see the gun?
I can describe it.
Oh really?
It was silver, with a stubby barrel... snubnosed, I think they call it... It wasn't automatic, it had one of those... cylinders...
You can't remember that  !
I can see the hammer still, it was cocked...
How can you remember that?
I didn't take my eyes off it!
Ah.
Not the whole time, of course. I 
No further questions.
Clyde, you wait here. Glenn, got a minute?
I had a minute before the Mapp hearing  but I couldn't get you on the phone, Eddie...
Yeah, well I had reasonable cause to believe the judge might've heard of the Fourth Amendment.
No it's not the only issue. There's another issue, for the jury. What about entrapment?
What about entrapment?
We don't prosecute people because in the abstract they might be weak. Judge Brandeis said it best: Entrapment is a "dirty business!"
Can't I take a simple piss without 
Haven't heard that one before, Ed. But I guess I'll be hearing it again.
Not necessarily...
You can't come back here... Anything happens to you I'm liable.
I'm a lawyer. The firm is thinking about renovating. Everything dates back to the Sixties.
I noticed.
Do you see a toilet here you think is really me?
Look, I'm a lawyer and 
 I don't care who you are. You could've been killed. Every man and woman in here has done hard prison time. And we look out for each other.
"We"?
I did five years in Attica. Lot of cons helped me in the joint. But I never got help from any lawyer... I built this business for guys like me who couldn't get a break anywhere else. "Art's Supplies" is for ex cons. Not lawyers.
"Art's Supplies" is founded on trust, Mister 
Dowd. Eddie Dowd.
If you'd had the sense to ask for my help, I might've helped you. But you've probably scared Chuckie Roeder off for good, I have a whole bunch of jumpy employees to handle and you're both going to be on your way. Now.
What, "everything"? You shot a corpse. I don't give a shit about that  !
Let's snuff this lowlife!
Hey  the fact you popped Jimmy Chin in broad daylight proves it wasn't premeditated. Jury'll sympathize  dude was banging your wife, right?
Shut your sewer mouth!
Objection, your Honor! The fact that the witness is currently a patient is immaterial!
Sustained.
I will allow the witness to testify. With the understanding that your questions are confined to the area of Mr. Kim's modus operandi.
 With objection!
So noted.
Your Honor, that's not fair  !
Complain to the Bar Commission.
Objection.
Sustained.
I move that the witness's testimony be stricken. He has clearly been terrorized by the prosecution, he's 
The testimony will remain in the record. Do you wish to crossexamine?
Good morning, Mr. Dowd. Do you think you might be up to crossexamining Mr. Ortega this morning?
Your Honor: I imagine that, no matter how careful my questioning, Mr. Ortega would, in his wellintentioned way, dig my client's hole even deeper.
Well then, does the defense have any witnesses?
I suppose I could find an inmate who'd say that Shu boasted about Chinatown just to survive in the joint  though he didn't really do it...
 Then you don't wish to call any witnesses, Mr. Dowd?
I would like to put Shu's alleged crime in a context, your Honor. And we do have the foremost expert on prison and street gangs right here in this room... If it please the court, I'd like to call Mr. Reynard.
Ms. Vin's sister.
I have to talk to your brother.
The hell you do. At this hour?
Gimme back my bottle.
Let go of my hair.
Don't hurt him.
Where's the nearest hospital?
Bellevue. Straight up First 
The photo on the left shows the bullet that killed Jimmy Chin, true?
True.
And the one on the right is the bullet you testfired from Shu's gun?
Correct.
You would have the court believe that these two bullets were fired from the same gun?
Absolutely.
Or this  is this a significant difference?
No it is not, Mr. Dowd.
Forensic ballistics isn't an exact science, is it?
It most certainly is.
Isn't there a ten to fifteenpercent margin of error?
Absolutely not. No more than seven percent.
In other words, seven times out of a hundred, you're wrong!
I brought it... to the coroner.
An hour after you picked it up!
From Chinatown... Which is right up the street from the morgue! Where did you go with the body? What did you do with it?
Please... I need to sleep...
You're fishing. You don't know shit.
I know about Esparza.
...we had to lick his boots clean.
He was your snitch.
Our own Colombian Connection... For three years... Three years of ball breaking detective work. And we put a lotta bad guys behind bars.
And one good guy.
Demerol? What the fuck is your problem, man? You wanna die?
I'm dead. We're both dead.
...Where're we goin'?
Thataboy. Hospital.
I don' need a hospital... I feel fine.
Too fine, Badalato. The bad news is, you're gonna live.
Hi, I'm Rhonda. Rhonda LeBeck. I'm up here for the semester...
Yeah, geography.
Right, geology. And you have to be Val and Earl. I've heard all about you.
Listen, got a question for you. Do you know if anybody is doing any blasting or drilling or anything like that?
Around here? Why would they?
Well, I'm supposed monitor these seismographs. You know, they measure vibrations...
Yeah, vibrations in the ground.
Yeah, well, I'm getting what I refer to scientifically as "weird vibes." every sensor I've got is giving me strange readings. I mean, the school has had these machines up here three years and they've never recorded anything like this.
Darn it!
You okay?
Yeah. But I'll tell you, if you ever wanted proof God is a man, this is it.
Think it's still following us?
Let's assume that it is.
Ready?
Yeah. One, two, three...
Rhonda's got an idea about that.
Yes, see, they move very easily through the Pleistocene Alluvials... ...the dirt...the loose soil that makes up the valley floor. But they can't move through solid rock. I think we should travel west to the mountains.
You paying attention? This oughta hurt like hell.
It does.
What's it doing?
Why do you all keep asking me?
Yeah, they're confused. They can feel our vibrations, but they can't find us.
They're working together, too.
What?!! Since when the hell's every goddamn thing up to us?!
You guys do all the odd jobs.
Look, the situation hasn't changed. We still have to get to solid rock. There must be <u>some</u> way!
Like <u>what</u>?! There's nothing left that'll make it to the mountains!
Listen, they only respond to vibration, right? Couldn't we... distract them somehow?
Yeah, good! Something to keep them busy. We need a decoy.
I think the ground's getting closer. I think we do it. We're gonna save our asses here!
Wait! How are you going to know they're all following it?
Good point.
It worked! There they go!
LET'S DO IT!
Hey Val, listen. Bearing going out, you think?
Could be.
And I appreciate it.
You don't get it, Pham. The idea was: we were ripping you off.
I don't believe this. The phone is out! Pham, your phone is out!
I didn't do it! What's going on?
Twenty.
Okay, ten dollars.
I've got a plan. You and Val take your truck, get to the mountains. Hike to Bixby. Get us some help.
Those scumsuckers are my radials, Pham!
I'm dead. Let's finish in the morning.
We have to go into Bixby in the morning. The concrete blocks are in.
The con...! Oh my God.
Just keep looking at that beautiful sky.
What?
That's the sky that's going to be over our roof every night, when we're done.
Ah, but consider this, if we don't finish the roof, we can looks at that sky all the time.
Well, what's wrong with it?
It's...gone...!
You sure this is where it was?
Am I sure?! It was right there. There's the cord.
Come on. Get away from it!
God, what a stink!
Hi, guys, what you been up to?
Ran into the new college student, Rona.
Down, honey, down.
Yeah, Burt. The way you worry, you're gonna have a heart attack before you get to survive World War III.
Burt! Heather!
Yeah, Val.
We're in deep shit over here. Let's change that plan.
We're here, Val. Just tell us what you need. Come back.
They're tearing down the houses here! We all gotta get outta here together! Now!
Val, we're going to have to forget about the truck...
Yeah, Heather, we got you.
How's she doing?
She wants to lay down. I'm a little worried.
Well, I brung her something I know she likes.
Damn, Fred, you can't give away all those.
Forget it. I got vegetables coming out my ears. Usually the varmints eat up half my crop, but lately I ain't so much as <u>seen</u> a gopher or a jackrabbit nowheres.
If that ain't the truth. And I count on them for a little bit of stew meat...Thank you, Fred.
We playing cards tonight?
I think I'm gonna be sitting up with her.
I'd do the same. Well, catch you Thursday.
You bet.
You didn't cook breakfast?
Did it yesterday. Franks and beans.
No...it was eggs. I did eggs.
Hell you did. Your turn.
How many cows does it take to make a stampede? Is it like three or more? Is there a minimum speed?
I was in one. A bolt of lightning blew up cottonwood tree. Three hundred head going hellbent for the horizon. Wasn't so damn funny, I can tell you.
If there was one nearby I'd probably ask him.
I keep thinking, if we were but half serious about money, we should quit being hired hands and...
Handymen, Earl. We're handymen.
Whatever the hell we are, we should quit and go get ourselves some real employment.
Goddamn jeep trail gets worse every year.
Has a lot of rain.
You're gonna get us hung up.
Do not talk to the driver.
Uh...Digging that waterhole for Nestor.
Burt and Heather's place is closer. Let's do their kitchen today. Do Nestor tomorrow.
Nestor's out of town tomorrow. We don't dig today. We don't get paid today. Damn it, Valentine, you never plan ahead. You never take the long view. Hell, here it is Monday and I'm already working on Wednesday. It is Monday, right?
Who the hell's that? That's not what's his name...the grad student?
Nah, it's September. Must be the new one.
The new one! That's supposed to be a girl!
You know, if you wanted, we could take a look at those seismographs for her.
What the hell do we know about seismographs?
Nothing. But it sure might be a nice way of getting to know her.
Why?
Goddamnit, Valentine, you won't go for any gal unless she fits that damn list of yours A to Z...
Well, sure.
...And is dumber than my hind end. Like that Bobby Lynn Dexter...
Tammy Lynn Baxter.
Don't matter. They're all the same: dead weight. Can't make a decision, can't walk because of their shoes, can't work because of their fingernails. Make my skin crawl!
Well, I'm a victim of circumstance.
I thought you called it your pecker. Look, don't make the mistake I made. Twenty years of looking for a woman exactly like Miss October 1968, and where'd it get me? Here with you.
Catch it later, Pham. Gotta get over to Nestor's.
Right. We plan ahead. That way we don't do anything right now. Earl explained it to me.
Why don't his parents ever take him to Vegas with them?
You gotta ask <u>that</u>?
So what if we just did it...today. Pack up. Drive straight down to Bixby. Get serious.
We could. We could. But we'd have to get <u>really</u> serious. It's gonna cost twice as much to rent a place.
So? That car wash pays good, and they're always looking.
Car wash?! That's got no future. If we're gonna take the plunge we oughta have a better plan than that.
Yeah, sure. Go ahead and plan it...for a year or two.
Well, <u>you're</u> the one won't work in the car wash. You're the one's gotta have a plan.
Damn it, Val! Not having a plan is what keeps us doing jobs like this!
What keeps us doing jobs like this is you dragging your feet. I was up for going to Bixby. I was getting excited.
In the past year I must've said a hundred times "We gotta get out of Perfection. We gotta better ourselves." You gonna stand there in broad daylight and tell me you think I'm the reason we're still here? You want to know how close I am to going to Bixby right <u>now</u>?
I'll call that little bluff. How close?
Uh oh, it's Nancy. She wants another load of firewood.
Forget it, man. It's not worth it.
She's got us. Now, listen, the plan is: we have done our last job in Perfection.
That's the plan.
We did it! We faced temptation and we did not bend!
Damn straight! Now there's nothing between us and Bixby but nothing!
So long, cactus!
Adios, bridge!
Jeez, look at that guy.
One job I'd never take is working around electricity.
Especially when it's two hundred feet off the ground.
You're full of shit.
He's only got one damn jacket. That's him, I'm telling you.
Reckon he hated Perfection more than us? You suppose he <u>wanted</u> to kill himself?
If he did, why didn't he use his damn shotgun?
Maybe he just couldn't pull the trigger...
Oh sure, he figured it was easier to die of thirst? Come on, sombody must've chased him up there.
Oh, you mean somebody who ain't scared of a twelve gauge shotgun. And then what did they do? Camp out down below and just wait for him to die?
Well, whatever the hell happened it's just one more goddamn good reason to haul ass out of this place.
You got that right.
Probably up a pole starving itself to death.
Okay, the plan is: pedal to the metal the whole way. We don't stop till we hit the carwash, not even to pee.
I'll go with that plan.
Oh, Jesus!!
What the hell is going on? I mean WHAT THE <u>HELL</u> IS GOING ON?!!
Brother, we decided to leave this place just one day too late, you know?
Well, there's sure as hell nothing to stop us now. Everybody we know between here and Bixby is already dead.
Those assholes are supposed to be <u>fixing</u> the goddamn road! Hey! Where are you guys? People gotta use this road, you know! You on a booze break or what?!
Val! Val!
Jesus! I don't <u>believe</u> this!
You're hung up again.
I am not!
Fuck you!
Hey, I don't want spend the night out here!
It must've grabbed us. That's why the truck stalledout.
Yeah! Next time I tell you I'm not hung up...!
Slick as snot and I'm not lying.
Fifteen lousy bucks.
A man who plans ahead.
Pham, we don't want to be stuck on a couple of canners. They better be fast.
Relax. A snake thing like that couldn't move too quick.
Screw you. For all you know they could <u>fly</u>.
You want the rifle or the Smith?
The rifle.
That means we're gonna be out here, like, in the dark.
Great. Thank you.
Car's gone. We just missed them, that's all.
Then where's the goddamn Conway Twitty coming from?
Here's the plan...We don't <u>even</u> stop. Ride like hell. Tonight we keep right on going. We'll walk the horses.
That <u>is</u> the plan...I mean, goddamn it! What the hell are those things? How could they bury an entire Plymouth station wagon?
<u>Why</u> would they do it?
Shut up! They got wind of something they don't like!
Oh shit!
What the hell are they?
Sons of bitches!
This is one big mother!
So this is the guy that had your seismos working overtime?
Hey, Rhonda, you ever heard of <u>any</u>thing like this before?
Sure, Earl, everybody knows about them. We just didn't tell <u>you</u>. Come on, nobody's ever seen one of these! We're really <u>in</u> on something here!
Pham Van don't get his mitts on <u>this</u> for no measly fifteen bucks!
You got <u>that</u> right!
Here's the plan: we'll get a...a flatbed, I guess, with a big winch, figure a five ton anyway.
Naw, don't want to winch it. That'd tear it all up. Want to lift it. Some kind of crane with lifting straps.
We'll take your word for it.
Yeah. Where's your truck?
Prairie dog burrow...
Little sons of bitches.
God, the live ones smell worse tan the dead ones.
Okay, now, how far's your truck?
I don't know. If this one's any faster than that other one...
I think we wait right here.
Well...haven't seen a sign for hours. Maybe it's long gone.
Maybe it is. Why don't you take a little stroll and see?
Fuck you, too. Pardon my French.
Son of a bitch!
Son of a god<u>damned</u> bitch! Been waiting there all this time. How the hell's it even know we're still here?
It's been listening to us. It's got no eyes. It sure as hell can't smell anything underground, so I figure...
You know, I hate to be crude, but I'm gonna have to take care of some business here.
Me, too.
Well, folks, what's the plan?
First let's see if Stumpy's still out there.
Don't he have a home to go to?
Well, that's why Edgar never got down off that tower.
Run for it? Running's not a plan. Running is what you do when the plan fails. You're not even trying to come up with a plan!
Well, it's not like we've got a hell of a lot of options...
You go north, I'll go south.
Right.
You're right, don't matter where they come from.
Right. We need to be talking about what we're gonna do.
I'm gonna kick his ass!
I'm gonna help you.
Shut it up! Shut the little bastard up!
Chuck him out the door! Like a little hors d'oeuvre.
How the hell long it take <u>you</u> to change a tire?
Just about too damn long. Bolt pattern's probably wrong anyway.
We need another plan.
Wait a minute...the Cat. Could we take the Cat?
Jesus. It's slower than hell.
Yeah, but it weighs better than thirty tons. No way they could stop it.
But...we could pull something! We could, I don't know, drag a car behind it!
A car, huh? Like a big armored car? Need something bigger, tougher...our truck maybe...or, hell, that old semi trailer!
Its tires are flat...
Doesn't matter. The cat can pull <u>any</u>thing.
Well...all <u>right</u>! We just roll on out of here!
We got a plan!
<u>I'm</u> making the run to the Cat.
Like hell you are.
Get real. I'm faster than you.
<u>I'm</u> best at driving the Cat.
Only if something happens to me.
Watch your ass, shithead.
Don't worry about me, jerkoff.
Damn it. What the hell are they doing? They're up to something.
I don't care what they're doing as long as they're doing it way over there.
Come on, everybody! We gotta run for those rocks over there!
Jesus, Val, it's pretty far.
Well...that's it. We're not getting off this rock...
Not going to pole vault anywhere. That's for sure.
Come on, you're not going to do your lasso thing...?
Hey, just 'cause you're no good with a rope...
They're...they're trying to make us move!
Or just knock us over. Look, use the bomb!
It's out last one. We can't kill them all.
Use the fucking bomb!
So, we get back on that rock and in three days we're dead anyway.
I want to live for the three days.
What the hell are you doing?!!
I GOT A GODDAMN PLAN!!
Light it, man! LIGHT IT!!
Not yet, not yet...
Road's in!
Road's in! Now, soon as we hit Bixby we start making phone calls. We could make some real money off this whole thing, get in <u>People</u> magazine...
<u>People</u>? Hell, <u>National</u> <u>Geographic</u>.
Sell the movie rights. We're going straight from bluecollar to white collar.
Yeah...but no ties.
No ties.
Christ, Val, maybe she's not your type, but you could, at least, be civil.
Civil? I'm civil.
You're not civil, you're glum. We got the world by the tail with a downhill pull and all of a sudden you go glum on me.
Somebody paying you to do this?
She just practically asked you for a date. What the hell is wrong?!
Fine, make the mistakes I did. I think I'll just be playing this hand myself.
What?
She likes <u>both</u> of us. We both helped her out.
You are so full of shit...
Oh yeah? Think about this: She ain't as narrowminded as you. I'll lay odds she's looking for character in a man. For my part, I'd be proud to have her. I'd goddamn worship her.
Well, we'll ask around. Let you know if we hear of anything.
Thanks. God, I hope they're not screwed up. I might have to bag the whole semester. Anyway, sorry to bother you.
No problem. Nice meeting you. Hope you get it sorted out.
Jesus Christ...think it smells like that 'cause it's dead?
I don't see any eyes...must be totally subterranean...and those tentacles...
I think they shoot right outta its mouth, hook you, and pull you right in. Good thing we stopped it before it killed anybody else.
Yeah, I'm lucky it didn't find <u>me</u>. This is important, you know. This is like, well, let's say it, it's probably the biggest zoological discovery of the century. The century? Forget it. <u>History</u>.
Well, at least the bastard can't climb. Pardon my French.
Probably couldn't move too easily on the surface.
There's nothing like them in the fossil record, I'm sure...Okay, so they predate the fossil record... That'd make them a couple of billion years old...and we've just never seen one till now. Right.
I'd vote for outer space. No way those are local boys.
I might have an idea...
We're gonna have to come up with some kind of plan or it's just gonna wait us to death.
Well, I was wondering if we could...
I'll bet you're sorry the college ever sent you up here.
Well, I'm scared, but I'm not sorry.
You know, Val went to that college, too. For a whole year. Couldn't quite sit still for it, though. Had too much vinegar in his system. But once he settles down, forgets this cowboy stuff, he'll be one in a million.
You know, up the jeep trail.
The mountains are solid granite. We'd be safe there, and we could hike along them...all the way to Bixby if we have to.
Well, we can take my truck then.
No good. You need major four wheeldrive just to get up that jeep trail.
Oh my God.
Son of a bitchin' lowlife, putrid, scum...
He'll never make it! They're gonna get him!
VAL, STOP! THEY'RE COMING! DON'T MOVE!
We're not going over there, right?
No. We go straight.
So...now what?
Could we make it to the mountains?
Where the hell are they? Hope they didn't wise up.
Nope, there! That's one.
Hi, guys. Burt loaned me his camera.
Howdy, Rhonda.
You're really leaving, huh?
You bet. You gonna be staying up here?
Well, yeah! There's going to be major research up here. First thing is to get some pictures of that one we dug up.
A beauty, isn't it? We bought three of them for the rec room.
We sell 'em to you for three bucks a piece!
What the hell you doing back already?
You're never going to believe this, but the canyon road...we were on it not two hours ago...well, it's completely...
Negative copy on that, Pham, check your frequency. I'm on fortynine.
Burt, can you hear me now?
Just barely, Pham. What are you all doing up on your roofs. What the hell's going on? Come back.
Burt! This is Val! Get out of your basement!! Take your radio! You and Heather get up on your roof! Then we'll talk, okay?!
Val? What the hell you doing back already?
Burt, get out! Get up on your roof or someplace! We found out what's been killing people! They're under the ground!
What's under the ground? We're not getting up on the roof. Earth shelter's the best. Known that since I was a kid.
Listen! Listen! We know what they are! They're big things under the ground! Much bigger than we thought! They're coming after you! They're coming right now!
Let's go you two. We're headed for the mountains.
In a minute.
That's fine. We've got some new things to teach them.
Damn it! They'll sink this rig just like a boat!
Jesus Christ, we're only going nine miles. Be there in two hours, tops!
Yeah, well those things are gonna be on our ass every foot of the way, right?
She's got my vote.
Right. We're gonna run. Get ready.
BACK OFF, BURT...!
Well, who put you two in charge?
Miguel, the trouble's come to us. If we're not ready...
Phone's out. Road's out. We're on our own.
I can't believe it. No tracks, no sign, no spoor.
Yeah, whatever they are, you'd think after they ate all those sheep they'd have to take a dump someplace... What the hell's going on in town?
You're not getting any penetration, even with the elephant gun.
Damn! Val, we can't get them. Never figured on having to shoot through dirt! Best goddamn bullet stop there is. Come back.
Knock it off, Burt!
I think I scared it!
What do you think? Max firepower or...?
I'd go for penetration. The 458 shooting solids  less ammo to carry anyway.
Rhonda. Rhonda LeBeck. She's getting some kind of strange readings on her things.
Damn, you know, those kids turn up oil or uranium or something out there...next thing the Feds will be at our door. "Sorry, time to move. Eminent domain."
Or a big mother slug maybe?
Some kind of mutation...?
You guys all set?
Ready as we'll ever be.
Heather and I are going to drive around a little, see if we can find that college girl and tell her to get her ass back into town.
You stupid punk! You came <u>that</u> close, <u>that</u> close!!
One of these days, Melvin, somebody's gonna kick your ass.
Okay, Burt, listen. Forget shooting them. Tell me this: can you get to your truck?
No problem.
Good. You've got the only truck in the valley that can make it up that damn jeep trail. So, here's the plan: You and Heather go for help. Get to the mountains...
Yeah, like they got a plan...
Breaker there, Earl. What do you want us to do?
Hang on, Burt. The bastards are up to something.
Yeah, still got one poking around.
That's four. Let us know if it starts moving, Burt.
Roger that.
What? Well, for chrissake, we could have made a stand at our place! We had food, water...
You can't fight'em that way...
You two jackasses hauled us way the hell out here...!?
How much you think?
I don't know... They're pretty quick...fifteen seconds?
What the hell is that, anyway?
Cannon fuse.
What do <u>you</u> use it for?
My cannon.
This is the suitcase you gave me.
I gave you?
I'm leaving it here. Come get it and keep moving.
Wait!
What?
...Who are you?
We were buddies in the Agency back on Mars. You asked me to find you if you disappeared. So here I am, goodbye.
What was I doing on Mars?! Damn!
I love you.
I love you.
Ooo, whatcha been feeding that thing?
Blondes.
I think it's still hungry.
I thought Cohaagen tortured you to death!
I guess he didn't.
You couldn't get me a message? You never wondered what happened to me?
...What?
There's something I have to tell you...
I don't remember you.
What are you talking about?
I don't remember you. I don't remember us. I don't even remember me.
What, did you get amnesia?...How'd you get here?
Hauser left me a note.
Hauser? You're Hauser.
Not any more.
Hauser, you're lost your mind.
I didn't lose it. Cohaagen stole it. He found out that Hauser switched sides,so he turned him into somebody else. Me.
This is too weird.
Then he dumped me on Earth with a wife and a lousy job and ...
Wait, did you say wife?...Are you fuckin' married!!?
She wasn't really my wife.
Oh, she isn't really your wife. How stupid of me...She was Hauser's wife.
Forget I said wife.
No. Let's forget everything! I've had it with you and your goddamn lies.
Why would I lie to you?
Because you're still working for Cohaagen.
Don't be ridiculous.
You never loved me, Hauser! You just used me to get inside.
Inside what?
I think you better leave.
Melina, Hauser sent me to do something.
I'm not falling for it.
He said there's enough in here to nail Cohaagen for good.
Get out!
I said get out!
Melina, please...People are trying to kill me.
I thought you didn't like me.
If Cohaagen wants you dead, you might be okay.
So you dropped by to apologize?
Kuato wants to see you. Come on!
Now what?
Jump!
By the way...ever heard of a company names Rekall?
I used to model for 'em, why?
Just wondering.
Not bad, for a hooker.
I'm not a hooker! That's my cover.
The first settlers are buried here. They worked themselves to death, but Cohaagen ended up with all the money. He built cheap domes and watched their kids turn into freaks.
I saw them.
What can I do?
Kuato's gonna make you remember a few things you knew when you were Hauser.
Like what?
All sorts of things. You might even remember you loved me.
I don't need Kuato for that.
Oh, since when?
He's lying.
You twofacedbastard.
Are you all right? Are you still you?
I'm not sure dear? What do you think?
Where are you going?!
The reactor.
What reactor?!
The one in the mine!
People are dying, Quaid!! Stop!! We've got to get air!!
Where's this "reactor" come from?
Aliens built it.
Aliens?!
You sure about this?
It's just up ahead.
Cohaagen knows it makes air. But the bastard won't turn it on.
Of course not. If Mars had an atmosphere, he's lose control.
The whole core of Mars is ice. The reactor melts it and releases oxygen.
Enough for everybody to breathe?
What's wrong?
I just has a terrible thought...What is this is all a dream?
Then kiss me quick...before you wake up.
Doug...Bob McClane.
Nice to meet you.
Good to see ya. Right this way.
Now help me out here, Doug. You were interested in a memory of...
Mars.
Right. Mars.
That a problem?
To be perfectly honest with you, Doug, if outer space is your thing, I think you'd be much happier with one of our Saturn cruises.Everybody raves about 'em.
I'm not interested in Saturn. I said Mars.
Okay, you're the boss  Mars it is.
Let's see...the basic Mars package will run you just eight hundred and ninetynine credits. That's for two full weeks of memories, complete in every detail. A longer trip'll run you a little more, cause you need a deeper implant.
What's in the two week package?
First of all, Doug, when you go Rekall, you get nothing but first class memories: private cabin on the shuttle; deluxe suite at the Hilton; plus all the major sights: Mount Pyramid, the Grand Canals, and of course... Venusville.
How real does it seem?
As real as any memory in your head.
Come on, don't bullshit me.
I'm telling you, Doug, your brain won't know the difference. Guaranteed, or your money back.
What about the guy you lobotomized...Did he get a refund?
You're talking ancient history, Doug. Nowadays, traveling with Rekall is safer than getting on a rocket. Look at the statistics.
All right.
Smart move. Now while you fill out the questionnaire, I'll familiarize you with some of our options.
No options.
Whatever you say...Just answer one question. What is it that is exactly the same about every vacation you've ever taken?
I give up.
You. You're the same. No matter where you go, there you are. Always the same old you. Let me suggest that you take a vacation from yourself. I know it sounds wild, but it's the latest thing in travel. We call it an "Ego Trip".
I'm not interested in that.
You're gonna love this. We offer you a choice of alternate identities during your trip.
Secret agent...How much is that?
Aaah, let me tantalize you. You're a top operative, back under deep cover on your most important mission. People are trying to kill you left and right. You meet a beautiful, exotic woman...
Go on.
I don't wanna spoil it for you, Doug. Just rest assured, by the time the trip is over, you get the girl, you kill the bad guys, and you save the entire planet. Now you tell me. Is that worth three hundred measly credits?
They'll be here any minute! They'll kill you all!
What's he talking about?
Let me go!
Is that better?
Mmmm.....
Poor baby. This is getting to be an obsession.
Who?
The brunette. The one you told me about.
Lori, I don't believe it...You're jealous of a dream!
Who is she?
Nobody.
Nobody?! What's her name?
I don't know.
Tell me!
It's not funny, Doug. You dream about her every night.
But I'm always home by morning.
Let me go!
Aw, come on, baby...You're the girl of my dreams.
...You mean it?
You know I do.
Lori...
Yeah, sweetheart?
Let's do it.
Do what?
Move to Mars.
Honey, do you have to spoil a perfectly wonderful morning.
Just think about it.
Sweetheart, we've been through this a million times. You'd hate it on Mars. It's dry; it's ugly; it's boring! I mean, really, a revolution could break out there any minute.
Cohaagen says it's just a few extremists.
And you believe him?
All right, forget about it.
Doug, maybe we should take a trip.
Lori, move.
There's lots nicer places than Mars.
Well...What do you say?
I'm late.
Sweetheart...I know it's hard being in a new town, but let's at least give it a chance here. Okay?
Lori, don't you understand? I feel I was meant for something more than this. I want to do something with my life.I want to be somebody.
You are somebody. You're the man I love.
Bye.
What are you doing?
Some men just tried to kill me!
Muggers?! Doug, are you all right? What happened?
No! Spies or something. And Harry from work...Get down!
Harry from work...He was the boss.
Take it easy. Tell me exactly what happened? Why would "spies" want to kill you?
I don't know! It had something to do with Mars.
Mars? You've never even been to Mars.
I know it sounds crazy, but I went to this Rekall place after work, and...
You went to those brain butchers?!
Let me finish!
What did they do to you? Tell me!
I got a trip to Mars.
Oh God, Doug.
Forget Rekall, will you! These men were going to kill me...
Doug, nobody tried to kill you.
They did! But I killed them!
You call this a paranoid delusion?!
Doug...
Not talk! I said TALK!!
I'm not your wife.
The hell you're not.
I swear to God!...I never saw you before six weeks ago! Our marriage is just a memory implant  agghh!
You think I'm an idiot? Remember our wedding?
It was implanted by the Agency.
And falling in love?
Implanted.
Our friends, my job, eight years together, I suppose all this was implanted too?
The job's real.  But the Agency set it up.
Bullshit.
O.K. then. If I'm not me, then who the hell am I?
Beats me. I just work here.
But Doug...There's something I want you to know. You're the best assignment I ever hand. Really.
I'm honored.
You sure you don't wanna...? For old time's sake. If you don't trust me, you can tie me up.
I didn't know you were so kinky.
It's time you found out.
Clever girl.
Doug...You wouldn't shoot me, would you? After all we've been through?
Yeah. Some of it was fun.
I suppose you're not here either.
I'm here at Rekall.
I love you.
Right. That's why you tried to kill me.
Nooo! I would never do anything to hurt you. I want you to come back to me.
Bullshit.
Then I can pull this trigger, and it won't matter.
Doug, don't!
I'm sorry. Would you please rephrase the question.
How did I get in this taxi?!
The door opened. You got it.
Welcome to JohnnyCab. Where can I...?
Drive! DRIVE!!
Would you please repeat the destination?
Anywhere! Go!..Just go  OH SHIT!! SHIT!!
The fare is eighteen credits, please.
Quit while you're ahead.
Thanks for taking Johnnycab.
Where?
Up to the right.
I want that fucker dead.
I don't blame you man. I wouldn't want Quaid porkin' my old lady.
Are you saying she liked it?
I'm sure she hated every fuckin' minute of it.
What was that? I couldn't hear you.
I've got Quaid.
Where is he?
Level 2. Galleria.
He shoulda killed Quaid back on Mars.
Shit!
What is it?
That son of a bitch got to be around here somewhere.
I've got him. The guy in the turban.
I've got a weak signal over there.
Split up. Find him.
He's not at ground level.
Up!
I've got a lock! There!
Come on!
Look at this shit.
What the hell is this?
Hey Harry...Harry! You ever heard of Rekall?
Rekall?
They sell fake memories.
Oh, Rekall.
Yeah.
"RekallRekallRekall." You thinkin' of goin' there?
I don't know. Maybe.
Well don't.
Why not?
A friend of mine tried one of their "special offers"...Nearly got himself lobotomized.
No shit...
Don't fuck with your brain, pal. It ain't worth it.
Hey, Quaid!
Harry!
How was your trip to Mars?
What trip?
You went to Rekall, remember?
I did?
Yeah, you did. I told you not to but you did anyway.
What are you, my father?
Let me buy you a drink.
No, Harry, I'm already late...See you tomorrow.
Harry, what the hell is this?
Come on, let's go have that drink.
What the fuck did I do wrong?! Tell me!
You blabbed, Quaid! You blabbed about Mars!
Are you crazy?! I don't know anything about Mars.
You shoulda listened to me, Quaid. I was there to keep you outta trouble.
Harry, you're making a big mistake! You've got me mixed up with somebody else!
Unhuh, pal. You've got yourself mixed up with somebody else.
Hey, hey Tony. Give the big guy a break.
Relax, you'll live longer.
If we don't hand you over, everybody in the sector'll be dead by morning.
We don't have much choice then, do we?
Sit down.
Where's Kuato?
On his way.
You heard the rumors about the Pyramid Mine?
Yeah.
Cohaagen found something weird inside, and it's got him scared shitless.
What, aliens?
You tell me.
I don't know.
Yes, you do. That's why we brought you here.  Cohaagen's big secret is buried in that black hole you call a brain. And Kuato's gonna dig it out.
You're Kuato, right?
Wrong. Kuato's a mutant. So don't get upset when you see him.
Shit!
C'mon!
They found us! Everybody out!
Melina!
Mr. Cohaagen wants to see you right away.
Any news of Quaid?
Not since you lost him.
Watch your mouth, Captain.
Quaid! That's Quaid!
Where?
There! The woman!
HER!
Arrest that woman!
Richter! Call from Cohaagen.
This is Richter sir...I've got them pinned down.
Pull them out.
O.K., everybody pull out!
What do you want?
This is going to be very difficult for you at accept, Mr. Quaid.
I'm listening.
I'm afraid you're not really standing here right now.
Ya know, Doc, you could have folled me.
I'm quite serious. You're not here, and neither am I.
Amazing. Where are we?
At Rekall.
You're strapped into an implant chair, and I'm monitoring you at a psychoprobe console.
Oh, I get it; I'm dreaming! And this is all part of that delightful vacation your company sold me.
Not exactly. What you're experiencing is a freeform delusion based on our memory tapes. But you're inventing it yourself as you go along.
Well, if this is my delusion, who invited you?
I've been artificially implanted as an emergency measure. I'm sorry to tell you this, Mr. Quaid, but you've suffered a schizoid embolism. We can't snap you out of your fantasy. I've been sent in to try to talk you down.
How much is Cohaagen paying you for this?
Think about it. Your dream started in the middle of the implant procedure. Everything after thatthe chases, the trip to Mars, your suite here at the Hiltonthese are all elements of your Rekall Holiday. And Ego Trip: You paid to be a secret agent.
Bullshit. It's all coincidence.
What about the girl? Brunette, athletic, sleazy and demure; just like you specified. Is that a coincidence?
She's real. I dreamed about her before I even went to Rekall.
Mr. Quaid, can you hear yourself? "She's real because you dreamed her?"
That's right.
You open it.
No need to be rude. I'll do it.
Suppose I do...then what?
Swallow this.
What is it?
It's a symbol. Of your desire to return to reality. Inside your dream, you'll fall asleep.
Good evening... Doug. I'm Dr. Lull.
Nice to meet you.
Twoheaded monsters?
Don't you keep up with the news? We're doing alien artifacts now.
So, been married long?
Eight years.
I see. Slipping away for a little hankypanky.
Not really. I've just always been fascinated by Mars.
Your sexual orientation?
Hetero.
Hmmm. And how do you like your women?
Blonde, brunette, redhead?
Brunette.
Slim, athletic, voluptuous?
Demure, aggressive, sleazy? Be honest.
Sleazy...and demure.
Fortyone A, Ernie.
Bob?
What is it?
You better get down here.
I'm with an very important client.
Looks like another schizoid embolism.
What the fuck is going on here?! You can't install a simple goddamn double implant?!
It's not my fault. We hit a memory cap.
Listen to me! He's been going on and on about Mars. He's really been there.
Use your head, you dumb bitch! He's acting out the secret agent role from his Ego Trip!
I'm afraid that's not possible.
Why not?
We haven't implanted it yet.
Oh shit....Oh shit...
I've been trying to tell you. Someone erased his memory.
Okay, this is what we're gonna do. Renata, cover up any memory he has of us or Rekall.
I'll do what I can. It's getting messy in there.
Ernie, dump him in a cab. Around the corner. Tiffany, you help him. I'll destroy his file and refund his money. And if anybody comes asking...we've never heard of Douglas Quaid.
Come on...put his head in place.
What the fuck is going on down there?!
I'm trying to neutralize a traitor.
If I wanted him dead, you moron, I wouldn't have dumped him on Earth.
We can't let him run around. He knows too much.
Lori says he can't remember jack shit!
That's now. In an hour, he could have total recall.
Listen to me, Richter, I want Quaid delivered alive for reimplantation. Have you got that? I want him back in place with Lori.
Richter, do you know why I'm such a happy person?
No, sir.
Because I've got the greatest job in the solar system. As long as the turbinium keeps flowing, I can do anything I want. Anything. If fact, the only thing I ever worry about is that one day, if the rebels win, it all might end.
He had help. From our side, sir.
I know that.
But I thought...
Who told you to think?! I don't give you enough information to think! You do what you're told!! That's what you do!
Yes, sir.
Now let's get down to business. Kuato wants what's in Quaid's head. And he might be able to get it, cause they say he's psychic. Now I have a little plan to keep this from happening. Do you think you can play along?
Yes, sir.
Great! Because, otherwise I'll erase your ass.
Stop fighting and get out.
They've got Quaid! They're protecting him!
Perfect!...Get out of Sector G. Now. Don't think. Do it.
Yes, sir.
I say we throw the switch and see what happens.
Don't be an idiot.
Kill him.
It's about goddamn time.
Well, my boy, you're a hero.
Fuck you.
Don't be modest. Kuato's dead; the Resistance has been completely wiped out; and you were the key to the whole thing.
You see, Quaid, none of my people could get close to Kuato. The fucking mutants could always sniff us out. So Hauser and I sat down and invented you: the perfect mole.
He's lying. Hauser turned against you.
That's what we wanted you to think. The fact is, Hauser volunteered to become Doug Quaid. It was the only way to fool the psychics.
Get your story straight. This idiot's been trying to kill me since I went to Rekall. You don't kill somebody you're trying to plant.
He wasn't in on it. You set him off by going to Rekall.
So why am I still alive?
We gave you lots of help. Benny here...
The guy with the suitcase; the mask; the money; the message form Hauser...All of that was set up by us.
Sorry. Too perfect.
Perfect, my ass! You pop your memory cap before we can activate you. Then Richter goes hod wild, screwing up everything I spent a year planning. Frankly, I'm amazed is worked.
Well, Cohaagen, I have to hand it to you...This is the best mindfuck yet.
Don't take my word for it, Quaid. Someone you trust wants to talk to you.
Who is it this timemy mother?
The guy's a fucking asshole.
Not true, he's one of my best friends...He's got a big house and a Mercedes. And you like Melina, right? Well, you'll get to fuck her every night.That's right. She's gonna be Hauser's babe.
Come on, Cohaagen! You got what you want. Give these people air!
My friend, five minutes from now, you won't give a shit about the people. Fire it up, Doc.
What are you afraid of? Turn it on.
Impossible. Once the reaction starts, it'll spread to all the turbinium in the planet. Mars will go into global meltdown.That's why the aliens never turned it on.
Do you expect me to believe you?
Who gives a shit what you believe? In thirty seconds, you'll be dead. Then I'll blow this place up...
I didn't want it to end this way. I wanted Hauser back. But nooo. You had to be Quaid.
I am Quaid.
You're nothing! You're nobody! You're a stupid dream. Well all dreams come to an end.
Nice to have you back with us, Mr. Brubaker.
Thank you.
Would you like the same suite?
Definitely.
Hmm. It seems you left something in our safe.
Get it, please.
Identification?
I'll go encode your room key.
Thank you.
There you go, Mr. Brubaker. Suite 610 in the East Wing.
May I use your pen?
What do you want?
They've got you bugged, and they'll be busting down the door in about three minutes unless you do exactly what I say.
Don't bother looking. It's in your skull.
Who are you?
Never mind. Wet a towel and wrap it around your head. That'll muffle the signal.
How'd you find me?
I'd advise you to hurry.
Need a ride?
The Last Resort! Quick!
Shut up and drive!
Whatcha doin' to me, man?! I got six kids to feed!
And if you wanna breathe, you gotta but his air.
But maybe you can change all that.
I think my grampa might be here.
How could you do this? You're a mutant.
Hey, I got four kids to feed.
What's wrong with this one?
He ain't got five kids to feed.
Where's yours?
Over there man.
You got the job.
Welcome to Mars.
What was that? An accident?
What to the rebels want?
Oh, the usual. More money, more freedom, more air.
So, where to?
The Last Resort.
You're getting off to an early start.
First time on Mars?
Yeah...Well, actually no...Sort of.
Man don't know if he's been to Mars or not
Tell me something; are all psychics, uh....?
Freaks?...'Fraid so, man. Goes with the territory.
What happened to them?
Cheap domes. And no air to screen out the rays.
Well, there it is; the Last Resort. Sure you wanna go in?
Why not?
I know a much better place down the block  the girls are clean; the liquor ain't watered down...
And you get a kickback.
Lemme ask you a question. Ever fuck a mutant?
Take me to the hotel.
What happened to number five?
Ah, shit. You got me. I ain't even married. Now put your fucking hands in the air!
Considering the company you're in, that's a pretty arrogant attitude.
Yes sir.
I like that in a fighter pilot. It's okay to be confident. You have to think you're King Kong to want to try to land on carriers. Just keep in mind the other component of success...teamwork.
Maverick... Where'd you get that call sign?
Ahhh... Runs in the family, sir.
You're father was Marvin Mitchell..
Yes sir.
A good man. Good flyer.
I had him in view. I was peeling over the egg, into a dive. He saw me when I moved in for the kill. There wasn't any danger...
Is that how you remember it?
Why?
We weren't below for more than ten seconds. There was no danger. I had the shot. I took it.
The rules of engagement are not flexible. They exist for your safety. You will obey them. Is that clear?
I wasn't thinking. I just did it.
Big gamble with a thirty million dollar plane!
SNAPSHOT..MISSED HIM..
ENGAGING THE OTHER GUY. WOOD, YOU'RE ON YOUR OWN.
Twenty years' experience, I couldn't shake you. You may be a great flyer. I mean that.
I lost.
Of course you did. I said a great flyer, not a smart one. You fly reckless. Great instincts. No discipline. That ambush today, you followed your emotions instead of your wingman. Of course you got killed...and well deserved to. It was a really stupid mistake. In battle, it gets people killed.
I can take care of myself.
Talent is no holy shield. Von Richtofen was killed by a farm boy. Instincts are not enough. Do it our way. We've worked these things out. The good pilots can become better and the great ones can learn how to stay alive. Why do you have to do everything the hard way?
It's my own way. It works for me. I don't care about the rest of that stuff.
Then why are you here?
For the same reason you are.
Oh, you mean the thrill!
The flying. The fighting. I'd go up there ten times a day to fight. I'd win at least nine of them. That's all I want to do. It's what I do best. I am real good. Just give me the jet.
How do you feel?
All right.
Goose is dead.
I know. I was there.
He was...my responsibilitymy RIO.
My first squadron in Vietnam, we lost eight out of eighteen planes. Ten guys. The first one kills you, but there'll be othersyou can count on it.
Skipper, sorry to bother you.
No bother.
I called your house.
My wife's house.
She said you took your kid to the each. Every second Sunday. Zoo or beach or the ballgame. Y'have the option... What about me?
We can send you back to your squadron with nothing noted on your record except "CNC" course not completed, no explanation required. Theoretically, it doesn't hurt your career, but people always wonder about things like that.
Or....
Or you can quit.
I don't know...
I didn't know either. That's why I told Jester to prepare your papers.
It's no disgrace, kid. That spin was hell. It would wreck anyone's confidence. You could be a good pilot again someday...
You think I should quit?!
I didn't say that. That's up to you. But I have responsibility for the other guys up there, not just you. They need to know you're all right...that they can depend on you.
Sometimes it's luck, but in this case, he earned it... I served with your old man.
I know.
VF 51, the Oriskany. You remind me of him. You're just like he was, only better...and worse.
I'm nothing like him.
You may not think so, but you are.
He was by the book, all the way.
They waved him off. He thought he knew better. He hit the ramp.
I never heard that.
Not something they tell dependents.
It's not true.
How can I go on? I feel so... responsible.
Kid, the plain fact is...you are. I'm not gonna stand here and blow sunshine up your ass. Technically, they absolved you. You and I know what really happened. You pushed it. You are responsible and you'll always carry that. You know what, I'll carry it too. I should have taken you out of that cockpit. I guess I'm a hopeless romantic... I always try to find something worthwhile in someone's death. It's no tradeoff. It's not one for one. What you learned isn't worth his death. It couldn't be. But maybe there is some value in it. I know it's the first thing I've ever seen that's really gotten to you. Now the question is, what will you do with it. If it gets you out of flight status...so you don't kill yourself or anybody else...that's good. That's one good thing. You were an accident waiting to happen.
You think I shouldn't fly.
I didn't say that. That's up to you. I think that if you do, if you choose to come back, you'll be a better pilot... a better man.
Would you take me back? Would they?
I'll have to think about it. I don't know about them. I do know one thing, We've got a lot invested in you. We'd hate to lose it. Even more than those other guys, Naval Aviation needs a very few, very good men.
He's a good pilot.
I talked a man back once. Three months later, we lost him. It's his decision. Only he knows.
Was going. Now you are.
Me?
You just did an incredibly brave thing! What you should have done was land your plane. You don't own that plane, the taxpayers do. I should ream you out for it. But it just doesn't work with you. You're a hell of a flyer. You are maybe ...too good. You never really stepped in it yet. So this is your chance. I'm gonna send you up against the best. They are better than you. Maybe they'll knock that shine off your eagle and you'll see, finally, where discipline and teamwork fit it. Maverick hasn't really heard anything but TOPGUN. He snaps out of it.
Sir?
That is all. Tell me about the MiG some other time...
Yes sir!
Yes sir..
The wings..
You won?!!!
Didn't everybody?
It was bad.
Bad?
The girl with the purple fingernails was Coogan's sister.
You didn't help.
No, really. She came ruined!... Ya think he knows it was me?
Morning, Coogan.
How's it goin', Coog?
Ah, the thrill of victory and the agony of defeat.
Speaking of feet, fuel's down to 4.0. We're gonna get them wet unless we find a Sonoco station.
COUGAR, THIS IS MAVERICK. I'M GETTING HUNGRY, LET'S HEAD FOR THE BARN. ...COUGAR, WHERE ARE YOU?
I...FORGOT SOMETHING.
What the hell you doing?
Helping him in.
What makes you think we can get back in? We don't have the fuel for this. MAVERICK Just get me to him.
The hard deck for this hop was ten thousand feet. Jester, at what point did you call off the fight?
Just below ten thousand.
But you continued to fight.
I don't know what to tell you, Skip.
Tell me one thing.
He's seat of the pants... Completely unpredictable  nothing by the book. All over the sky. But I don't know, Skip, he's really got something.
Yeah, we get one of these guys every damn class. "Maverick!"
WALKED RIGHT INTO IT.
NOT ONLY THAT, BUT ZORRO GOT YOUR WINGMAN. NICE GOING.
He just won't engage. He can't do it, Skipper. He can't get back on the horse.
It's only been a week. Keep sending him up.
I've seen this before.
So have I.
Some guys never get it back.
Who's the hell is that?
Three guesses.
Well, he's in trouble and he didn't even get here yet.
Figured it out yet?
Figured out what?
Who is the best.
Nope.
Need a hint?
I think I can work it out on my own.
You like to work alone. I've heard that about you.
I've heard of you, too. You were in 124 with Bargamian.
And you were with Cougar. He was my roommate in flight school.
ENGAGING BANDIT 12 O'CLOCK.
SHIT!!
COME OFF RIGHTCOME OFF HIGHI'M INI'LL ENGAGE.
STAY WHERE YOU ARE. HE'S MINE. I'M ENGAGED. I'M IN.
GET OUT OF THERE, YOU'RE UNSAFE. GET OUT OF THERE.
FIRE, OR CLEAR OUT, ICE.
GET LOST!
YOU GOT TOO MUCH NOSE TO TAIL  I'M COMING IN.
IT'S MY SHOT.
COME OFFCOME OFF RIGHT. I'M ON MY WAY IN. YOU GO FREE, I'M ENGAGING.
STAY OUT OF IT. STAY OUT OF IT, MAVERICK.
YOU CAN'T SHOOT HIM, I CAN. I'M IN.
ICE, ROLL OFF, I CAN SHOOT HIM.
NO, NO, NO, HE'S MINE.
IF YOU CAN'T SHOOT HIM, I CAN.
NO, I GOT HIM. I CAN TAKE HIM.
OKAY, GOING UP. ICE, GO HIGH.
LOOK OUT!
ON THE NOSE?
GOT 'EM. GOT GOOD TONE.
I GOT A WINDER LEFT, BUT NO GOOD TONE ON IT.
I CAN'T LOSE HIM, CAN YOU GET OFF A SHOT?
I GOT NO TONE. IT MIGHT GET YOU.
WHAT CHOICE DO I HAVE? SHOOT IT.
WHEN I SHOOT, YOU BREAK LEFT..3..2
I guess I owe you one.
You don't owe me anything. We're on the same team.
You saved our lives. You did it!
We did it.
You're a hell of a flyer. You can be my wingman any time.
No. You can be mine!
A plaque?
It's not the plaque. The winner can get assigned here as instructor. He gets to fight every day.
No, we...got our butts kicked.
Thirty seconds. That's all it took to blow us out of the sky.
It's kind of ironic. All you guys have women troubles and I don't.
That's because you don't have any women.
Until last night. Did you see the moves I was making on that girl at the party?
The girl with the purple fingernails?
That's hertall hungry woman with fire in her eyes. It was great.
Coogan spent half the night looking for her. He said he was gonna kill the sonofabitch who ruined his sister.
I didn't ruin her.
Hear about Ice?
What now?
He won again.
I'VE GOT TWO MORE BOGEYS COMING IN AT FOUR O'CLOCK HIGH.
GOT 'EM.
Don't worry. I'll talk to him.
Don't.
He's the best you have. He's going Top Gun!
Was.
Well, he's going and he needs someone to fly the plane.
Skipper, you can't do this!
I didn't do it, he did it himself. Something about a wife and kid. The fact is, he's lost it. He knows it. I know it. You were up there, you know it, too. GOOSE Give him a break, Skipper. It was raining snakes up there. He'll be alright, soon as all the gorillas go home...
But, Skipper, Cougar's been picked for Top Gun...He's the best of the best!
Well, you'll just have to make do with him .
Mav's a great flyer but....
He's a hell of a flyer. In fact, he's so damn good he might have been picked for Top Gun himself. Except for one thing. He just can't seem to follow orders!
That's Kazanski.
No shit! That why they call him Ice?
Nope. It's the way he flies  Ice cold. No mistakes. Wears you down. After enough time, you just get bored and frustrated, you do something stupid, and he's got you.
Man, you guys gooned it. Your laser butts are scattered across KANSAS.
Come on. I died enough for one night.
I was a victim of circumstance.
They should have warned you about that one.
She's kinky for flight suitssaid that she'd never seen so many zippersplayed with them all night. The noise alone kept me up.
What'd you do?
Pulled left, rolled out, underneath.
Look at the weather! They'll never find us! We're near out of fuel. Put it down.
COUGAR, YOU'RE ON THE BALL.
What are you doing?
Nothing...That's McGown...that's Singer, isn't it? GOOSE Turn around, pay attention. What are you doing?
Keller, Black Lion Squadron. I knew him at Pensacola. He's damn good.
Is there anybody in the Navy you don't know?
Gotta keep track of the competition.
You ever done this before?
What, been drunk? Sure! Plenty!
Hey Mav, this is Sally. She doesn't believe a word I say. Tell her I'm married, will you?
Yeah, he's marriedbut then again, he,s not dead.
What do these guys think, I made Cougar quit?
Pay no attention to it. They're just trying to rattle you. It's all psychological. Sit down..and drink.
I've lost him  where is he?
On your six  coming hard. Four hundred. Losing airspeed! He's on your six and closing fast! Hard left! HARD LEFT!
Great move. Great
He should've had me. GOOSE Take it down. Let's bug out of here. Call for a draw.
We did it!
Look, Ma, top of the world!
Ahhh...A little high on the left, don't you think?
Right.
It's a victory roll.
I wouldn't call it victory. It's more like...self immolation.
Hi...Hi there. How ya doing in there? Mav... Ahhh...you know, at one point I did want a Navy career.
Come on, relax...
You see all those guys with gold on their shoulders!!?... Oh, no, I think that was Johnson, Air Boss of the Kitty Hawk!
Come on, we beat an instructor. How many times in your life do you get to do a victory roll?
Just once, if they take your plane away.
Come on, we're next.
What?
Come on, I got over six bucks on the line.
Come on, come on! It's double or nothing.. We're talking twelve bucks American, here.
I've had enough...for now.
What the hell is this?
Don't chew it, you won't have it that long. Easier to clean the cockpit if it comes up in big chunks.
Something bothering you?
Nothing. Let's just go fight.
STAY WITH HIM! TIGHTEN YOUR TURN!
Bogey at three o'clock high! Nose on!
Just cover Wood, Maverick. Mutual support, man!
I'm gonna take him, Goose.
Don't be greedy. Stay with Wood.
I want him!
What what are you doing? We're cover!
Wood's okay. I want Viper.
Relationships are a bitch, here. It's hard enough to concentrate ...under the pressure. Having a woman here is asking for it.
I guess that's what I'm doing, then.
Where do you find the time? Where do you find the energy. It's tough enough to keep your mind on school. A woman here is a real pain in the...
I'm pinned to the panel.
Time to go.
I can't eject.
3000 feet. I'll do it.
Go ahead. I can't reach. 2000 feet!
1000.
Let's go. Eject.
Slider  they let you into Top Gun? If you're among the best in the Navy, I tremble for the security of this country.
Why Goose, whose butt did you kiss to get here?
The list is long, but distinguished.
So's my Johnson.
This is Maverick.
So I've heard.
Who's your pilot?
Tom Kazansky.
No shit. The Iceman....
Mister to you.
You think you can stay up with us.
I think, yeah, we'll show you a thing or two.
This is Evan Mitchell, he steers the thing.
So I heard. Steers it pretty close. Sorry to hear about Cougar. He was a good man.
What was that?
Flaming Hooker. Sort of an institution around here. Or maybe this is the institution, I forget which. It's the house drink. It'll warm the cockles of your heart ... and other things depending on where you spill it.
How was it?
Could use a dash more jet fuel.
Nice. Always a good idea to show up your instructors. He nods toward Jester, glaring at them from his A4. Goose indicates the backseat of the Tomcat.
Hey, see any controls back there? And anyway...we beat the Son of a Bitch!
It's not Cougar's place. It's ours.
What do you think it was? Was it that MiG contact that did it?
Did what?
Got you here.
We're here because we're the best flyers in the wing. Not because of some MiG encounter.
That's not what I heard.
We won! Ice turns back, stares them down, then turns back into his locker, dismissing them.
Below the hard deck doesn't count. You guys are the second team, aren't you?
Why do you all have such funny names?
You gotta have a call sign that's just your own...never changes...you have to recognize it immediately. Then, if someone shouts "Wolf, break left!"..you react right away.
Why do they call you Wolf?
Well, I don't know. That depends.
On what?
Well, it doesn't just happen, you gotta do something famous.
Like what?
Oh...I'll think of something.
WHAT? WHERE'RE YOUHEY, WHERE IN THE HELL ARE YOU GOING?
DIDN'T ... AHHH...LOOK GOOD.
WHAT DO YOU MEAN? IT DOESN'T GET TO LOOK MUCH BETTER THAN THAT?
NO. NO GOOD.
What are you doing?
Saving them some paperwork.
Since when did you care about paperwork?
If I could fly like you I'd have everything I want. If I could fly at all. I can't fly. I can't fly like that. Nobody can. Whatever it is, you've got it!
Not anymore.
So, you're scaredso what? You ever get a good look at me in the back seat, I'm goddamn terrified.
Bandit at seven o'clock lowsolo. Take him. Pull on the goddamn stick, man!
Okay, okay.
Don't tell me okay. Do it!
BREAK LEFT! BREAK LEFT! CHAFF! FLARES!
BREAKING LEFT!
THERE'S ANOTHER ONE UP THERE!
I GOT ONE COMING UP.
AND HE'S GUNNING.
Ohhh Mother!
Goddamnit, Mav, you really are a slow learner. Don't worry, Fung, I've got it.
Don't WORRY!!!? You've GOT it!!? Are you CRAZY?
Roger, I've got it.
Now have you got it? Have you still got it?
Yawing right.
I know!
Rudder's left, stick's forward.
Swell! Passing ten thousand!
I've got it  hold on!
Passing 8. Passing 6. Lock your harness!
I can recover. Hold on!
5000 feet. Speed two hundred.
Okay.
No! Not again!
What are you talking about, we gotta go!
I'm not losing it again!
Gotta go, man.
280, 290, 300 knots.
3,000 feet. We gotta go, man. 3,000 feet, we gotta go!
You go. I'm staying with it.
I'm gonna go! THREE...TWO...ONE...
Is there something I should know?
Just relax.
Is it the plane?
The plane is fine.
Is it you?
Yeah, I guess it is. We did it! We did it...Damn! We sure did it!
You're not supposed to...
But I have to!
Then...shit! Go ahead. I'm right behind you.
MUSTANG, THIS IS MAVERICK, REQUEST A FLYBY.
You hear that? Anything we want. Anything...Well???
Well what?
What do you want?
What do I want?
What do you want?
Any more MiGs?
Let me do the talking.
Oh, no. You did the flying, I'll do the talking!
I've got a six strobe. I think he's locked on us.
It's a MiG 21. They don't have radar missiles!
Let's hope you're right!
What is he doing?
He's pissing me off!
That's missile lock!
He better be kidding!
Lordy! Eyeball to Asshole. Hope nobody burps!
We're locked on MiG ONE. Why doesn't he disengage?
These guys are getting on my nerves.
Hey, if it was easy, everybody would want to come up here and do it..... Instead of just us.
You.
Help me with this one, I'm really screwed up.
Bring it left. Bring it left, You're high.
This is crazy!
What is?
Wait! Hell!..Something's wrong!
What? What is it?
Were upside down!
You're crazy. We're level.
Can't you feel it? I'm hanging in my straps!
You're not. We're level. Look at the instruments, we're okay!
They must be broken. I'm hanging in my straps! We're inverted!
We're not! Trust me! We're okay.
I'm pulling up.
No! Now we're inverted!
We're on vapor, Cougar, you got to put it down.
It's crazy, man. Instruments are crazy. We're gonna have to eject.
TELL HIM, WILL YOU TELL HIM? OUR INSTRUMENTS ARE OKAY.
OKAY... OKAY. BUT IF I LAND THIS THING UPSIDE DOWN. AND I LIVE. I'LL HAVE YOUR BUTT!
You'll have mine, Cougar. It'll be where your head used to be.
Can't shake him.
WHAT'S MIG ONE DOING?
Maintaining course. Straight for Mustang.
I'LL LOCK ON THEM, COUGAR. Gotcha covered, don't nobody move.
I'M UP HERE TOO, MAVERICK.
ROGER, COUGAR. Okay boys, pull out with your hands up and nobody'll get hurt.
WHAT ARE YOU DOING HERE?
EVERYBODY'S GOT TO BE SOMEWHERE. ..NOW WE'RE RIGHT WITH YOU. YOU ARE INVERTED. ROLL IT, COUGAR.
MAVERICK.
YEAH, COUGAR?
YOU BETTER NOT BE RAGGING ME... IF YOU'RE FLYING UPSIDE DOWN...
NO JOKE, COUGAR. ON THE LEVEL. EVEN I WOULDN'T DO THAT TO YOU.
I'M UPSIDE DOWN. I KNOW IT. I'M GONNA EJECT.
Well... What is it?
Sir. You are going to give me a warning, Sir!
Yes sir. I do, Sir.
Well?
Sir. I was going Mach point one five.
One SIXTH the speed of sound!
Yes sir.
Lieutenant... What do you... usually fly?
F14's sir.
Tomcats?
Yes sir!
Lieutenant... Is there... a Russian attack?
No sir! But you have to be ready.
Yes, Sergeant?
Remember one thing.
Sir?
Outside of this gate... I...am Top Gun.
Yes sir!
I'll bet!
Uhhh...Anything I can do for you? She laughs again, doesn't know what it is...could be chemical, but she's instinctively attracted.
Yeah. Hold this. It might be safer.
Now I know why all the girls come here. They know how horny you guys get. But this...is ridiculous.
It's not that.
It isn't?
Well, it is. It is that, too.
That's a big comfort to me.
I could be, too.
How so?
Save you from a big mistake with that other guy.
And on to a bigger one with you?
Yeah, most likely.
Was there ever a girl who didn't like fighter pilots?
I heard of one once.
Can I walk you out?She turns back to him, a smile.
I'm with someone.
I thought he'd never leave.
Yeow!
Everybody's got to be somewhere.
What if Captain Dawson had come with me?
It would have been really embarrassing!
How did you know this was my car?
Simple deduction. It's fast. It's pretty. Sleek and stylish...It's your color...matches your lipstick.
That's all!
And I asked someone. CHARLIE You think you're pretty smart.
I beg your pardon.
No, I beg yours. But I don't think you're right on that.
Why not?
I saw one.
You saw a MiG 21?
I saw a MiG do a 4 G negative dive.
Where did you see that?
It's classified.
It's what?
It's classified. Like Hollywood says, I could tell you, but then I'd have to kill you.
Lieutenant, I have a top secret clearance. The Pentagon sees to it that I know more than you.
Not in this case. CHARLIE You saw a MiG push negative 4G?
Yes, ma'am.
Where were you?
On his six.
He was in a 4G Negative dive and you were on his six?
Yes, ma'am, At first. Then I was directly above him.
If you were directly above him, how did you see him?
I was inverted.
Two.
Two miles.
Two meters.
The what?
You know. The finger.
It never came up.
You let me make a fool of myself.
You seemed determined to do that anyway.. Why didn't you tell me you were a famous MiG insulter? MAVERICK Would it have made a difference?
No.
What would?
You know, I'm assigned to this school. I see sixteen new hotshots every eight weeks. Your attention is flattering, but not really productive. Why don't you keep your mind on flying.
What would you say, too fast...too quick...
And far too aggressive.
It is combat. Every second counts.
Well, what you need...what you have to keep looking for...what you want to get is a wingman who can stay up with you. Who can match you move for move. Then you've got something. I'm sorry.
For what?
That stuff about the MiG. I was out of line.
Apology acknowledged.
Is that all? CHARLIE What else do you want?
Um. You.
There you go with those moves again.
Too aggressive?
I don't mix with the boys. I work here. Let's keep it professional.
I'm special.
Yes. I'll give you that!
Give me a break, I'm asking you out.
I can't.
I thought there was something... That night in the club...
Lieutenant...
Evan... or Maverick.
Maverick...you know the rules of engagement.
The what?
Some one comes up hot on your six, what do you do?
What are you talking about?
You turn into him, check him out, identify friend or foe.
I'm not your foe. CHARLIE And if he's harmless, you disengage.
Harmless!
Uh hum.
What if he's not?
You have to shoot him down....If he's smart, he'll turn away before that happens.
And probably never again. It's nothing personal. It's just...I know a lot of pilots. Maybe I'm immune...
Don't worry, I'm a new strain. And I don't give up. Everything I've ever wanted I've had to work like hell for. Well, how about it?
How about what?
How about anything, anything you want to do.
Hard to argue with that, isn't it...
A date... Coffee... A drink...A walk in the park.
What about the plane?
What plane.
Most of them invite me to sit in the cockpit...play with the levers and things. MAVERICK Well, get used to it.
Used to what?
I'm different.
I'm starting to sense that now.
Let's make it at eight.
Make what?
Anything.
Okay, anything. Just...go. I've gotta work.
Why'd you do that?
MAVERICK +++$+++
It dies. We live.
You're an animal.
That's true. What are you?
I don't enjoy watching things suffer.
No!
It's not suffering anymore.
You're horrible
You're not, cause you eat frozen meatballs? Things die. Every time you breathe, you kill millions of tiny organisms. Every time you eat, something had to die.
You don't have to kill it.
Somebody does. It's more honest this way. You do your own dirty work.
You ever think about killing another human being?
About as much as they think about killing me.
Does it bother you?
They know the rules... That's the deal. That's why you're up there. It's him or me. That's the price of admission. It bothers you, why? You're part of it. Everybody dies. Most people don't get to die for something.
You know what really scares me? Living too long. Losing my hair and my teeth...and my guts and my wind. And my brains...Sitting in a room with my hands in my lap, watching daytime TV.
You don't believe any of this. You don't think you'll ever die.
That's it, of course. When I'm up there and doing it, I'm cheating it every second. I'm subverting all laws...gravity...whatever. I'm skating the edge of it.
Winston Churchill.
What he said..."There's nothing so exhilarating as being shot at without result."
All you've got is one life. I guess it's worth about the same to every body. You ever see an old woman after her husband has died? And the meaningless years of decline stretch ahead... When you're in the air and doing something really dangerous, you can look ahead... maybe ten seconds. That's your whole future. That's as far as it goes. But imagine what those seconds are worth.
What if you kill yourself? Think of everything you'll miss. MAVERICK There is lots of stuff I don't know about... Fine wine... great art... the opera. I guess if I live long enough, I'll get to it. If I don't, I'll never miss it.
Are you really that brave?
I watched my mother die. Cancer. She had a long time to think about it. They say you reach an agreement with death. Come to accept the fact that pretty soon you won't be here. I didn't see that. She... was very brave...braver than I am. You go up there, there isn't time to think. If you make a mistake, you're just a smudge on the ground. Simplifies funeral arrangements.
It's just as I thought.
What?
You're totally insane.
Thanks very much. Care for some suchi?.
Come on.
Where?
You want to go ballistic?
I don't know. I don't like being out of control.
I always wanted to fly... ever since I first saw a jet. I wanted to fly jets, then I wanted F14's, then I wanted to fly off carriers, then I wanted Top Gun.
And now?
And now I want you.
You always get what you want?
I don't know yet.
I want it understood.
Anything.
No fooling on base, no signs, no comments, no talk. By anyone.
Why?
I'm a professional. You guys are in my line of work.
Food...and you...my F14!
In that order?
Well no...inverse order.
I'm still second best.
You ever fly an F14?
I don't fly in anything that doesn't show movies.
Danger?
. Yeah!
Doesn't it ever bother you?
Why, what's gonna happen?
Lucky charm.
What do you take me for? It's a Navy Cross.
Just good luck.
Where'd you get it.
Pawn shop. What's to eat?
...they say you're alright.
I'm fine.
This is it, then.
What?
The dark side. The price you pay for all the fun you're having. You knew about it, of course. Didn't you?
He was a friend of mine. A good guy...great guy. It was my fault.
That's not what I hear.
I was flying...my responsibility.
That's what you get flight pay for.
Maybe I shouldn't take it.
Why? You act like you didn't know one day this would happen.
Not to me.
You knew it. You all do. It's part of it. Maybe the most important part.
Where are we?
Where are we? You know where we are. It's called the beach. It's where life first crawled up out of the sea. I come here sometimes... when I feel like crawling back in.
You don't have to do this.
Do what, show you a good time?
I'm not good company. I should be alone.
I don't think so, but if that's what you want...
No.
What do you want?
I want it back.
What?
Yesterday.
You look way out there. Out past the date line. West becomes East, all things change. You cross the line...today becomes yesterday...or tomorrow, I forget which.
That's what I want.
Of course the line's just imaginary. You can cross it twenty times...nothing really changes.
You don't believe that.
Hardly ever.
Only when you're depressed. Then it passes.
It does.
Everything passes. Immutable law of the Universe.
What do you do when you come here?
I sit. I think. I play games.
What kind of games?
I like to play "reality".
How do you play reality.
It's strip reality, actually, like what the pilots always want to play.
Strip reality! How do you play that?
It's like strip poker, only, without the bluffing. One person says something and if the other one accepts that it's true, the one who says it, gets to take one item of clothing off.
You're crazy. That's a pretty silly game.
Not as silly as some. You know the silliest one? ...that we are gods. That we control events on the beach... that we can turn back time...
Want to play the game?
How does it go?
You say the truth. Go ahead. Don't be afraid. You want to win the game, don'tcha?
What truth?
The big one. The one that's most on your mind.
Goose is dead.
True.
Now?
Take something off.
Off me or off you?
That's up to you.
What does it mean?
That wasn't fair. It was a question. Penalty round!
You didn't mean it. You didn't think. You'd do anything to take it back.
That's three.
And that's one!
One more.
Your watch.
Looks like a tie.
Who's gonna win?
We'll say it together. On the count of three...One...two...
You weren't gonna say goodbye?
I was, later.
Long distance? I wouldn't do that to you. I'd at least talk to you.
I didn't want to see you. I mean, I did...but I didn't..
I know exactly what you mean.
How could you?
I've got a gift just like you do. My gift is I just know what people mean, even if they can't say it. It helps when you're trying to communicate with fighter pilots. Like what you just said was "I'm embarrassed, I feel I've done something wrong, that I've failed, and I don't think I can live up to the expectations of a wonderful interesting, intelligent woman like yourself." That about it?
...Something like that.
And I'm gonna sneak off, and be by myself for awhile, like until I can think of a new career...hotel management or something...
Big talk for someone who's never been shot off her computer.
Hey, I never said I was a fighter pilot...I never claimed to think it was fun to be shot off the end of a ship in a storm. I can find contentment in a good book. I don't have to roar by someone at Mach two with my hair on fire. Sometimes...I just get happy being with the right man.
I hope you find him.
I think I have... I could be wrong. I have been before. Just remember one thing. If you're not Top Gun, if you're not fighting jets, you're not gonna be able to act like a fighter pilot... You're gonna have to act like the rest of us. You're gonna have to master humility. For you guys, that's the toughest maneuver of all.
Well?
Well what?
You got your F14, you got Top Gun, you got your MiGs....You're our new Top Gun instructor...Now what?
Oh...I'll think of something... What are you doing here?
I live here, remember?
Right on the flight line?
What ya want?
Must be a bitch getting around in that wheelchair. How long you been in it?
Since I got a iron pipe put across my knees, man. Fight with three wasi'cus, ya know.
At Sioux Falls Pen?
No, that was Leavenworth. This  was Sioux Falls. What ya want?
Leavenworth a tough joint?
You ever try solitary confinement?
No. Can't say that I have, Richard. Richard do you know why I'm here?
Washington sent ya. I know that.
Yes, Washington sent me, Richard. They sent me here because this whole thing has been fucked. Do you know what I mean when I say this whole thing has been fucked, Richard?
Not for long, Richard. You got early parole under the stipulation that you would help us in a situation, and you didn't deliver.
What the fuck you talkin' about?
Get up out of the chair, Richard.
What's with you people? Why do ya have to fuck with my head all the time? I came through, man.
Get up out of the chair, and walk toward the backdoor, Richard.
I get thrown in solitary until I don't know my own fuckin' name, and then you people tell me I can beat nine years if I help you. I helped you!
Get up!
They said I'd never see FBI again, and I'm livin' with you fuckers. I don't feed ya information on the Warriors, it's back to the pen. I don't do this, back to the pen. Your word against my word. Against a con Indian's word. I really got a chance, man, right?
They sent me here, Richard because they said you didn't hold up your end of the arrangement, and I have to transport you back to Leavenworth.
What the fuck, man? What do you people want? I did what you wasi'cu's told me to do.
Leo Fast Elk... is alive.
No way. No fuckin' way.
How the hell do you know?
I blew his back out with a buffalo gun, that's how I know! Now you're gonna say I didn't, so you can throw me back in solitary?
The men who came to see you at Leavenworth. The one's who made the arrangement... who were they? Maybe I can talk to them.
Miles. Three other suits. That's all I know 'em as  suits. Were you there?
You turned Leo over on his face. But the coyotes must've turned him back over, man, cuz his spirit is out. It's out, and it knows.
What do you know about spirits? You ain't no In'dn.
Leo knew something heavy and was trying to tell Jimmy. But you must not know how serious it was or you would have delivered. Do you realize what Leo could have told Jimmy?! Do you?!
I took him out before he got the chance. He didn't say nothin' about Tashka Sha. And now his spirit is in the dirt. Forever.
What's Tashka Sha, speak English, speak English!
Red Deer Table! What's with you, man?
Keep talking, Yellow Bird...
All I know... is I did what I did... and I ain't in solitary, gettin' pumped up with downer, gettin' beat to shit. But I tell you what, Suit. Take me back. Cuz I can't take this shit no more.
Ray...
Mister Tully.
Do you want a coffee?
No. No, no. Thank you.
I'm not that sure. Yeah, I think 
 yes, Teton Sioux. Father's side.
With an Indian representative out there, we hope to keep hostilities dormant; this is a COINTELPRO, Selective Operations Unit, and it'll be easier on Agent Couture if you can gain the people's trust and maybe 
Woh, excuse me, Sir... I see what you're saying... I've got a little Indian blood, that's true. But  I am not an... an Indian. I can't just go in and 
 your father was part Sioux.
X21, give me a 20.
Black Tail District, X22. You ready for this? Leo wasn't killed in the Badlands. I... I found the location.
X22. Read.
Go ahead, Ray.
I have a pickup truck. No plates. Subject  Indian  entering suspect's house. Over.
Okay, Ray. I'm coming in. If he starts to leave the area, move in. And hold him. Over.
No plates. No registration. Serial numbers removed. And all prints washed off by the river. That's great. This is turning out to be a walk in the park, do you know that?
Come back?
Never mind.
Ray. X22.
I read, Cooch.
Remember that upside down flag back at Jimmy's house? Somebody took it down.
Good.
They took it down, set fire to it, and threw it on the doorstep of room 13 at the Buffalo Butte Motel. Your room.
X21. Come back.
Ray. What's your 20?
What are you doing on the reservation?
I'm on my way back in. Over.
Yellow bird... is gonna sing.
Yellow Bird committed suicide at three o'clock this morning. Some gungho agent from D.C. pushed him into a corner. You're playing a losing game. Pull over.
You're the Indian FBI.
That's right. Turn around.
This Jimmy's?
You're not gonna catch him. He can shapeshift into different animals. Bear. Elk. Porcupine.
Is that like an hereditary thing, Magdelana, or can one take classes?
Jimmy didn't kill Leo. Why do you wanna do this?
He tried to kill him twice before. That's a good place to start don't ya think? Leo was on the other side, wasn't he?
 Leo was an apple, that's right. Red on the outside, white on the inside. And Jimmy hated him. Kicked his ass a coupla times. But he didn't kill him.
Who did?
You're the FBI. That's your job, isn't it? Ya know how many of our Warrior brothers got killed out here? I never saw any investigating then. Why now? What's going down here?
A Fugitive Alert for a murder suspect. Before somebody else gets a shotgun blast in the spine.
Try the Fort Laramie Treaty. All over again.
Look. You and I can stand here in a culture clash til the sun comes up, talking about what's right and what's wrong. You're from the reservation. It's a different world.
I'm from Minneapolis. Fifth Street. I did four years at Dartmouth before I ever set foot on this res. So I know about the other world, Ray.
Thank you.
When you see Jimmy, tell him the sooner he turns himself back into a human being and gives himself in... the sooner we back off this reservation. Okay?
Grandpa Reaches says you come from heavy Indian blood. I used to think Grandpa was gettin' senile. Now I know he is.
Move it, Magdelana.
You burned an American flag today. And left it for me...
 You desecrated it, it had to be burned.
I desecrated it?
You forced an innocent man to run like an animal. You've tried to poison my people's hearts against me with your manipulation, with letters I never wrote... you've been watching me eat, work, raise my family... wash myself in the river. And now you're here, arresting me at a sacred place. In your eyes, that's power.
Your relatives must've taught you something.
NO. My father never told anybody he had Indian blood. But he still used a few Indian words around the house. He called me Washee. Said it meant... good boy.
What?
Washee is like... a dumpling. Like tallow we put in stew. I think he was calling you chubby boy.
Great.
I said when can Leo be taken to ceremony?
After we've completed our investigation.
What are you 
Watch out!
What?!
You're steppin' on sign.
Hey. Hey, you, listen up 
 Leo wasn't killed here. He was dumped here. Out of a vehicle. Bald tread. Muffler held on with baling wire.
Big sonuvabuck. Based on the depth of that print, pressure releases... I'd say he goes twoten, twofifteen 
Bullshit.
 Well, maybe twoseventeen.
You're trying to tell me you can read all that from a track?
No. Not just a track. You gotta listen to the trees, man. To the leaves. To this sand, you FBI's kicked all up. You gotta listen to the earth.
Is that right? Well, listen to this: drag your ass. This is a restricted area.
No, this is the home of the Oglala Sioux and I want the dogfucker who killed Leo. Whether you get him or I get him, I just want him. Shit's been goin' on too long.
You've got no jurisdiction.
You got no knowhow. About Indian Way. Or about Jack Shit for that matter.
Maybe you're not aware of this, Crow Horse, but I just flew in from a place called the Twentieth Century where we have such things as electrostatic tracking methods, psycholingusitics, DNA fingerprinting; I don't have to crawl around with the scorpions and talk to the fucking trees to get answers. Leo was killed right here.
Go back to the M.E., take a look inside Leo's exit wounds and tell me how chicken feed got in there. Trust me, there ain't chickens in the Badlands. His mother's place is 
 his mother never lived here. She was from up in North Dakota.
I'm talkin' his spiritual mother. Maisy Blue Legs.
His spiritual mother...
To us Indians, our spiritual relatives are as close as family. I've got seven mothers on this reservation. Sisters. Brothers. You ain't one of them.
Thank God. Now listen to me, asshole. I'm giving you a break. But if my partner finds out you're here, you're gonna be reading rat tracks in Sioux Falls Maximum Security.
Easy. Easy... I'm goin'.
You're an easy man to track, Ray. Ya walk like a penguin with a hardon.
Is that right? What are the trees saying today?
They're sayin' that nobody's gonna talk to you cuz they don't give away one of their own. But they did say there's somebody way across the Little Walking River who wants to talk to you.
He sent me to find ya. He says he's got information.
Let's go.
Grandpa Samuel Reaches. Heavy duty medicine.
Medicine. As in medicine man?
Why does he wanna see me?
Good question. Hardly sees anybody anymore. Hasn't left this place in twenty years. Did you bring some tobacco?
What did he say?
He wants to know if you ever watch the Cookie Monster. He says the Cookie Monster is not to be trusted  a trickster.
But he is not unhappy with you because he knows you.
He knows me?
He says he saw you in a vision some time ago.
What's he smoke in that?
Sacred herbs. Tobacco. Don't worry, we don't smoke no Mexican agriculture in The Pipe. That's a white man's myth. This is a sacrament.
What did he say?
He said he doesn't know.
He just did the Gettysburg Address in Sioux. What did he say?
What was he saying?
Why should I tell you.
Because he was talking to me.
The old man saw an owl. Over there in the dry wash. Last week.
And...
He saw an owl.
So what?
The owl is a messenger. When one shows itself to a Sioux... it means someone's gonna die. The owl told him about Leo.
The owl told him about Leo. That's incredible. I guess we just broke the back of this investigation, didn't we? Evidence doesn't get any harder than that  not for my money. Is there anyway we can seduce this owl into Federal Court?
He also said "listen to the water."
Listen to the water. Listen to the owl. He also said, don't trust the fucking Cookie Monster.
Go back to your DNA fingerprintin'.
Don't be mad. That was just an old traditional gesture that means hello, how are you.
I see. Forgive my cultural ignorance.
Jimmy didn't do it, Ray. I checked it out. You can stop taggin' my sister.
She's your sister?
So did this one. Wambli is a rare and sacred creature. When someone finds a dead one, the feathers get around the res. We share everything. A lot of power in the eagle feathers. But you think that's bullshit too, don't 
 Leo Fast Elk was sitting in the outhouse at Maisy Blue Legs when a car pulled into the yard. He came out, approached the vehicle then saw that the man behind the wheel was Jimmy. He tried to get back into the trailer, but the car came highballing at him. He started running for the open grass. With the car moving, Jimmy hung his shotgun out the window, took aim  missed once, hitting the shitter  fired again, and severed Leo's spine. Leo fell, rolled, and came to a stop in the grass. And some chicken feed. Stale chicken feed with four days mold. Electromagnetic printing.
Waste. 'Cept for one thing. Jimmy Looks Twice was nowhere near there. Ya see, when Jimmy was twelve years old, his mother and father was killed in a car wreck right down there near Elk Mountain.
I don't see the connection.
The connection is, it did a head number on him. He's petrified of cars. Won't drive. I've known him all my life, and he's never gotten behind the wheel of a vehicle. He rides passenger and he rides horses, and that's it. The man that shot Leo down was behind the wheel of a moving car.
That's not solid.
You want solid? That one, single, print he left in the Badlands  the one the FBI missed and then stepped all over  it belongs to a man who walks heels first. Like a white man. Jimmy has a serious Ind'n walk  ball of the foot first. The man who murdered Leo walked like a Wasi'cu.
The old man? He's gonna tell you who killed Leo?
Go catch Jimmy, Ray. Really. He's gettin' away. Go ahead, go get him. I'm late.
Hey. Hey, those are my sunglasses you're wearing.
Grandpa traded with me. Goodbye.
I can't do that, It's a Rolex.
A what?
Red Deer Table, Ray.
Don't tell me: heavy duty.
Heavy, heavy duty. Taku Wakan. Wanagi Spirits. It's one of those few places we'd never go to as kids. Still don't. Some of the old people say Crazy Horse is buried back there. We have to go Ray. Together. Like his vision.
Walter. When I fill out my 302, do I say that evil spirits are killing everybody on the reservation?
Ray 
 no. No offense to the old man. I appreciate you trying to help. But I put my ass on the line coming out here, man.
What'd you expect to hear?
Not Native American myths and legends. I'm with the FBI, Walter, remember? Not National Geographic.
What you call myths, we call our history.
It's not real.
What's real to you? Wall Street? Capital Hill? Now they are myths.
I can't be dicking around here. That's all I'm saying. I don't carry crystals, I don't wanna come back in another life. I just wanna do my job, and do it right, and get the fuck outta here.
You ain't no Indian. You're a Sal Mineo Indian.
Take care of yourself, Walter.
Likewise.
Agent Little Weasel, Federal Bura of your Imagination.
Jesus Christ. You're hammered. What are you doing?
You're right about the old man. His power's long dried up. He's supposed to be a medicine man but he won't go see the people. He says we changed, and we don't listen. Well, he don't go out and talk no more. I haven't had a drink in three years but I just turned my sobriety chip into that man behind the bar, and this Hoss is gettin' watered.
Cut the shit. You shouldn't be in here, Man.
Cuz I'm a skin?
Cuz you're a cop.
Not no more.
What are you talking about?
You tell me. You tell me who went to the B.I.A.  Bureau of Indian Annihilation and said I was messin' with your case, man. I don't give a goddamn about your case.
And I don't give a goddamn about whether you wear a badge or not, Crow Horse, but I didn't cut you.
Still after Jimmy?
They found prints at Blue Legs' place.
Yeah. Jimmy's prints are there. But they cross over Benjamin Black Star's prints. And he wasn't there until six o'clock the mornin' after to get eggs from the chickens. So Jimmy wasn't there til the next day. Follow?
Next time I'll be ready. You get the word to who ever it is.
I can't, Hoss. I don't talk to FBI's.
You think you was sent here cuz you're a good cop?
No. I was sent here cuz I'm Indian. And a good cop.
Fivehundred year old turtleshell rattle...
Crow Horse, listen 
Where's Maggie? Where'd ya take her.
Nowhere. I'm trying to find her.
You got Jimmy. Let her go.
Crow Horse, listen. You have to come with me.
Why? So you can get rid of me, too?
No. So we can do what the old man said. Red Deer Table, Walter. We have to go.
Do they come in dreams, these visions?
Oh yeah. Dreams. Sometimes durin' sickness. Vision quest. Sweat Lodge. Ya never know when.
Just before we caught Jimmy... I had a dream that I was being chased. And I was running with other people. Old fashion Indian people. I got shot in the back. Like Leo.
Where was this?
At Wounded Knee. I mean, that's where I was, and that's where the dream was. Why?
You were running with the old ones. At The Knee. Heavy duty.
Well, it was just a dream, I 
Sonuvabuck! What's with you, Man? Who are you?
What do you mean?
Nothin'. Forget it.
You had a vision. You had yourself a vision. A man waits a long time for a vision. Might go his whole lifetime and never get one. And along comes some instant Indian with a Mastercard and brandnew shoes, has himself a vision.
Sorry.
I'm a fullblood Oglala.
We've driven a long way. Where is this place?
Maybe it was just a dream. Ya know, just one of them, what do ya call 'em, fitful dreams?
Yeah. Fitful dreams.
Bullshit. You had a vision. You got sign from the old ones.
What the hell do you want me to do?!
Stop.
What's that?
Ain't prayer flags, that's for sure.
Jesus. Oil?
Uranium. Test holes. Somebody came in from the Nebraska side, and did some shotgun testin'. They're gettin' ready to suck this baby dry.
1868...
What?
That's what we're doing here. National interest. National security. Only this time it's not gold. It's uranium.
We're standin' on broken treaty ground, Ray. This ain't supposed to be here. It'll poison the water.
Leo knew about it. Tried to tell Jimmy, get the Warriors involved.
So they took care of Leo.
Listen to the water... the river keeps goin' down then rising again.
This Clear Moon's house?
Yeah. It's time to beat the drum. You better wait here. He don't trust the white man.
Alright. Shit's comin' down. He's callin' council fire. All the old chiefs and the warriors, too. I gotta be at Grandpa's place in two hours. We need to get the tribe together. We need to block this thing.
What we need... is Richard Yellow Bird.
I thought it was a rare case of a brother getting a break in the courts. We did an honorin' song for him and everything.
He's looking at a few hundred years in Leavenworth. He's not gonna come out without a fight.
Ray. Ray, don't let go now, Man. Ray...
You go to the council fire. I'm going back in.
Ray.
Ain't no Council Fire, Brother. Clear Moon...
I know. Come on. We gotta get off the reservation or we're dead.
Hoka Hey. It's a good day to die.
Bullshit, let's get outta here,
He's gone.
He hasn't left this place in twenty years. They got him.
They got us sealed. What are we gonna do?
We're going for The Stronghold.
That's it. The Stronghold. Get us in there, we got a chance.
We're in there. We're in there 
What about the water...
You bought her some time, Kola. Ain't never gonna be over... but you bought her some time.
Some Indian time?
I'll have to see what the visions say about that one.
You didn't have another vision...
You take care.
If you ever need a place to come back to and listen to the trees a little... we'll be here.
South Dakota... Did I do something unsatisfactory, Sir?
No, Ray. You're gonna have to blame that on your grandmother.
I didn't know him, Sir. He passed away when I was six.
Seven.
Those are two agents who went into a reservation a few years ago to serve a warrant. They were executed at close range. That one there is a police officer killed by the Mohawks up in Canada more recently.
Jesus...
The agents who have worked out here say its like going into Nam. Unfamiliar terrain, foreign language, foreign customs... and you never know when you might walk into a few rounds. They hold a lot of old anger for the white man out here.
Were you in Nam?
Airborne. That's where they used to get us agents from. Now we get 'em from CarnegieMelon, Ivy League. Accountants and computer whizkids. Yuppies with guns. That's scary shit.
Hey, hey, hey. J. Edgar would've loved you. He'd love anybody who joined the bureau to, what was it? "To enforce the laws of my country and protect her interests"?
You crashed my file?
No. I consulted it. We're going into Indian Country, I wanna know what kind of individual is covering my ass. Don't you?
Six rounds. 357.
That's what it looks like, doesn't it? But that's what a ten gauge, chokebored, shotgun will look like when it hits your lower back from five feet away.
Somebody was serious about doing this guy, that's for sure.
Ray.
This is a restricted area.
Check him out, Ray.
I did.
Who the fuck is he?
 a fucking cop.
Leo has to take the journey, Cooch.
We'll have to give Leo a refund. Because he's gotta go to the M.E. In case you don't know, Officer, violation of the Major Crimes Act on 
Leo's gonna need his hands, Cooch. He does quillwork.
I think Leo's retired from quillwork for the moment.
Keeping of the souls. Do they still burn their dead or something?
Beats the hell outta me.
No. That's Ray here. Ray...
Ray Levoi, Sir. Pleasure.
Water. Worth killing for out here, I'd think.
Get the plate numbers off everyone of these cars.
I already did.
Couldn't sleep.
Good.
Maisy Blue Legs place?
How'd you know?
I got one up on ya.
Go ahead.
I've got the doer. I know who he is.
Meet me at base. Over.
Cooch. You're my hero.
Who is he?
One of the leaders of the Warriors of All Red Nations. Militant organization.
White eagle feather through the circle. That's their symbol.
That's right.
They obviously wanted it to be known that they offed Leo. Some kind of statement.
Jimmy Looks Twice put Leo's head through a glass door of the tribal offices three months ago. And threatened him several times since. President Clear Moon and the regional FBI feel he made good on that threat.
I'd just like five minutes alone with the motherfucker who hung that flag upside down.
Easy, Cowboy. No vendettas on my ship. Now: remember what I told you about Nam? Watch the grass, watch the trees, watch the shit house, be on your toes, and if we get committed, don't hesitate to empty that sucker.
Alright. Alright.
What'd she say?
She talks a lot of shit. We're not doing our job. Jimmy's innocent. "What's the FBI really doing here." Some shit about the Fort Laramie Treaty.
She took something from the house. What she called a medicine bundle. Most likely Jimmy's.
Let's see it.
I gave it back to her.
That's good goddamn work, Ray. Let the salmon run. Let 'em run Upriver.
Why we setting Eagle Bear up as an informant?
Her own people start to suspect her, it creates discord from within. The Warriors don't know who to trust, they start infighting, and Jimmy loses his support.
Her oil pan is shot.
Cooch. What's the Fort Laramie Treaty?
Jesus, I don't know. You tell me. You're the Indian.
Cooch. Where the fuck did they send us?
A long way from home. You be careful out there.
The right man? Talk to me, Ray.
Whoever dusted Leo, dusted him from the driver's seat of a moving car then drove those eight miles to the Badlands. Jimmy Looks Twice has never been behind the wheel of a car. It's a known fact out here that he's petrified of driving. His parents were killed in a car wreck.
Genetic ditto on evidence found at the site with evidence you found in his belongings. An incontrovertible motive. And definite footprints on Jimmy Looks Twice at Maisy Blue Legs house.
When did we get that?
Today. And now you  there's a dog in the van 
 I know. I fed it, and I can't get rid of 
You weren't sent here to go off on your own detail, Ray. You were sent here to assist in a Selective Operations Unit. These regional agents are inept  that's why they were sent out here to The Graveyard, to Indian Country. I need you behind me, Ray. Not pulling against me.
I'm not trying to pull against you, Cooch. I've just been having nightmares about the way Leo was killed.
Your first homicide, that's gonna happen, Ray...
I just wanna make sure no one else gets done in that way because we were in bed with the wrong doer.
Ray. I never get into bed with somebody unless I know for sure. Just the way I was raised.
Alright. Alright...
Yeah, alright, alright  fuck you  give a yuppie a badge and he wants to take over the world. Go get a tail on Eagle Bear, and stay with her. Cuz Jimmy's gonna show. And I want you to make the collar.
I'll sleep around a little.
Thanks, Cooch.
And get rid of the dog.
Bastards...
All I could think of was... not here. I don't wanna eat it on an Indian Reservation, three thousand miles from home.
He's out there. He's out there playing Sitting Bull with us. I want the motherfucker so bad I'm getting a bleeding ulcer.
It may have been Maggie's way of saying "get off my ass."
She's that subtle?
Eagle's claws and a bear's balls that's what her profile says.
Well, she's running now, too. These fucking people like to run, don't 
 Cooch. Woh. Stop.
Tread matches. It's the car.
Yes.
And it was full of water when I drove by here three days ago. Full. I mean... a river.
The Little Walking River. You're right. This is part of it. So whoever sunk this car didn't compensate for drought. Goddamn.
Jesus, you alright?
Yeah. I... I fell asleep. I can't believe it. I 
Never turn your radio off! I thought I was gonna find you scalped! Damn it!
Sorry, Cooch. I lost Eagle Bear 
 never mind Eagle Bear. We've got Jimmy nailed. Let's go!
Listen: when we get back tomorrow, you're gonna find Tully laying a promotion on you. S.A.C. He wants to prove that his yuppie agents are making good. He's offering you New York. Tell him you want Atlanta.
Why?
Cuz I want New York.
You ever put your hands on me again and you'll be doing the books for a baitshop in the fucking Everglades, Mister.
You didn't tell me about Red Deer Table 
 what the hell is Red Deer Table?
What is it? It's genocide, that's what it is. It's a Pay Zone for some U.S. corporation and a Dead Zone for the people here. Uranium, Cooch.
This was a Selective Operations Unit, Agent Levoi. There is classified information pertaining to our national security. You don't question that, you don't go digging into that shit  that's insubordination. Jesus Christ 
 if they mine uranium there, these people will have no place left to go...
We were sworn in on the Constitution to protect federal matters, Ray. I don't know about uranium, I don't know about Red Dog Table  all I know is we did our job. It's over.
We neutralized anybody with a voice. Leo, Jimmy... Eagle Bear. Anyone who was standing in the way of the land. Is that it?
No. We neutralized enemies of the United States. AntiAmerican radicals who have killed federal officers out here!
Come on, Ray. Come forward.
No way, Cooch.
Ray...
Let the press through.
Taking ol' Leo somewhere?
Leo's been out here too long, man. I'm taking him to ceremonial burial.
Nice piece. You come back here to cover your tracks, Geronimo? What's your name?
It ain't Geronimo.
Who are you?
I think maybe you guys got off the wrong exit, yeah? This is the Bear Creek Indian Reservation.
I know where I am. I'm on federal land, doing a federal investigation, and if you don't wanna cooperate you can take a ride in a federal car, and spend the rest of the day in a little room, answering federal questions. It's your call. Who are you?
I'm a full blood Oglala Sioux, born and raised on this reservation.
You're a wiseass. Ray check his wallet.
We got the wire ya was comin'. You're the Indian official, yeah?
No. No, that's Ray, here. Ray, uh... Ray... Little Weasel.
Leo's gotta get to burial, Brother. He's gotta make the journey.
What journey?
Tell him, Ray.
 an Indian Reservation is within the jurisdiction of the Federal Bureau of Intimidation. I know that.
Good. Thank you.
Somebody must be doing something somewhere in your jurisdiction, Officer Crow Foot.
You ain't gonna cut his hands off and send 'em to Washinton, are ya? They done that to one of our girls once. Leo did quillwork, he's gonna need his hands.
Respect the dead, Hoss. Because when 
 did you understand me when I said that 
 violation of the Major Crimes Act on an Indian Reservation is within the jurisdiction of the Federal Bureau of Instigation. I know that.
Goodbye.
What the hell you doing?!
His mother needs a piece of his hair. It's for the Keeping of the Souls Ceremony. Has to be kept for four days.
Levoi, Cooch. Raymond Levoi, Criminal Division.
Oh, yeah  right.
Interesting bloodline you have, Ray. French, ScotsIrish, Italian, ...and oneeighth American Indian.
Sioux Indian, right?
Ray, there's been a homicide out in an area known as The Badlands. Indian Reservation.
It's not the first. There's been several. And our field office in Rapid City is getting a lot of heat... none of the investigations have turned up jack shit.
The main problem is, Ray, these people are extremely distrustful of outsiders, nonIndians. Relations have not been amicable.
Different culture. Hard to penetrate. The Indians don't like white cops poking around. And that's why we're in a position where we have to bring in an American Indian agent.
What are you doing?
James Looks Twice?
That's right. What are you doing here? This is a religious ceremony you're desecrating.
What's this about?
Your good friend Leo Fast Elk.
You think I killed him? Cuz he was an apple? Well, let me tell you something about Leo, Man 
 don't "man" me, Jimmy. Where's the key?
Now keep that between us, Dennis, cuz I don't know what kinda Johnny Law they got here.
Hey, Brooks, come over here. I want you to meet a coupla fellas from Denver.
Brooks, what's a perceptive fellow like you, doing in a joint like this? Let me buy you a glass of some of that Russian shit you like.
FBI? What you investigatin'?
A murder. On the reservation.
Again. Figures, man.
You know how in your big cities, you got your niggers and you got your Puerto Ricans? Well out here we got Indians. That's just the way it is.
The only good Indian is a dead Indian, does that old adage still hold true out here?
I thought we were staying on the reservation.
Yes. Rooms thirteen and fourteen are on Indian land.
I see.
Are you hungry? I have some nice raw kidney in the truck.
Oh, I'm set, Sir. I'm set.
Mr. Clear Moon.
Our police are afraid of them. Please get them out of here.
They're going to kill me next. That's what I hear. These new Indians are destroying everything. Our people are a quiet people.
They can lead us to Jimmy. Just let them go. We're tightening the net on him. We know he's on the reservation.
Hey.
Hey. Nice tie.
Don't get too attached.
Yeah.
You're my hero, Carl.
Heroes ain't supposed to shake. I'm shakin', man, look at me.
Breathe, Carl. Four, nice, deep ones.
Anyone stops us going in, we're with the BowenHamilton Textile Company. We have rug samples.
Rug samples.
We are onedimensional, boring peddlers of fine carpet, Carl.
Jesus Christ, Larry, what the fu Larry. That's not even your name, is it? What's your real name, you fucking scumbag?
Don't have one, Carl. I have a number, man. Just like the numbers on those treasury checks. You stole from your own country, Carl. Shame on you.
Bob. Bet you had a late night.
Sleep is for the weak, Mr. President.
Bob?
We've worked up several military scenarios. Before I ask General Taylor to lead us through the various options, I'd like for us to adopt a rule. If we are going to strike, we must agree now that we will do it before the missiles become operational. Because once they are, I don't think we can guarantee getting them all before at least some are launched.
Bob, is there any way we can avoid stopping a submarine first?
I'm afraid not, Mr. President. The sub has positioned itself between the Pierce and the Soviet ships. Admiral Anderson insists it's too much of a risk to proceed with stopping the freighters. The Pierce would be a sitting duck for the sub.
Captain, force the sub to the surface for inspection.
Mr. President! We're receiving reports that the ships are stopping!
Captain, belay that order! Bob, where's that coming from!
Just a second, Mr. President.
Will somebody find out what's going on?!
Dangle a settlement, tie us down in negotiations, we come up short...
Why else would they approach us in this way? It's deniable. The Soviets have done nothing but lie to us. This could be more of the same.
That may be why Khruschev's introducing this guy. We've been burned by his usual players in the formal channels, so he brings in an honest broker.
That may be what they want us to think.
My specialists are in agreement: this morning's letter is not Khruschev. Last night's letter was. The evidence supports only one conclusion: there has been a coup, and Khruschev was replaced overnight.
Jesus Christ...
It's transparent. The press'll be all over it.
Six months from now, I'm not going to care. Are you? We'll deal with it.
Moving the line. Stroke of genius.
Of course it is. But the President needs to realize we're going to have to stop a ship eventually.
You must think I'm blind and stupid. I've already gotten the birds and bees from Bobby. The President doesn't have to doublebarrel me.
Listen to me, goddamn it. We're talking about a possible nuclear war. You dropped the ball on Bay of Pigs 
 you sonofabitch, goddamn it, I didn't drop 
You were in the room. It was your purview. It was your job to make sure Bissel wasn't fucking us over and you didn't do it. You've got the most important job in the world right now. You're the smartest guy the President has. Besides me.
At least it will expose whether Khruschev has been overthrown. We'll know what we're dealing with.
And if this is a move to appease the hard line, then it may just be the bone he needs to regain control of his own house.
I was eating that.
No you weren't.
I was, you bastard.
So what've we got today?
Today, for your information, is Pulaski Day. We're going to Buffalo...
Still think Cuba isn't important?
Not as far as the election goes.
Should be here any minute.
Good.
No choice. This is going to cost lives any way we go. Do nothing, and it could be 80 million of ours. We have to get rid of those missiles.
There've got to be alternatives to just going out and bombing them.
Okay. Kenny and I only show for the meetings you call us into. Impress us. And do it fast. You're in charge of keeping this quiet. If word gets out before we know what we're going to do, there'll be panic. And it'll ruin any chance of surprise if we decide to hit them.
Then we need to do a few things right away. No Pierre. He knows, the press knows. You're going to have to keep up your schedule  your movements are followed too closely. And we need to get these guys out of the White House. George Ball's got a conference room at State. Reconvene over there this afternoon, come back here tonight.
Call me Irish, but I don't believe in cooler heads prevailing.
Acheson's scenario is unacceptable. And he has more experience than anyone.
There is no expert on this subject, no wise old man.
Let's get out of here.
Cheer up, you've neutralized the entire White House Press Corps for a day.
Have you canceled Chicago and the rest of the weekend yet?
You don't show for Chicago, everyone'll know there's something going on.
I don't care. Cancel it.
No way.
I'm not calling and canceling on Daly. You call and cancel on Daly.
You're scared to cancel on Daly.
Damn right I'm scared.
We have to try the blockades. It probably won't work. It may just be delaying the inevitable. But we can't just go to war without trying not to.
I don't know. I don't know.
You'd worry that something was wrong if Congress offered you unconditional support.
They want this fucking job, they can have it. It's no great joy to me.
I don't like what's happening.
In the morning I'm taking charge of the blockade from the situation room. McNamara'll set up shop in the flag plot at the Pentagon, keep an eye on things there.
All right. 'Cause you get armed boarders climbing into Soviet ships, shots being fired across bows...
I know, I know...
What about these lowlevel flights? They're starting in what? An hour? Do you realize what you're letting yourself in for?
We need those flights. We have to know when those missiles become operational, because when they do, we need to destroy them.
Fair enough. But Castro's on alert and we're flying attack planes over their sites, on the deck. There's no way for them to know they're carrying cameras, not bombs. They're going to be shot at, plain and simple.
I'm your political advisor, and I'm giving you political analysis here. This is a setup. The Chiefs want to go in. It's the only way they can redeem themselves for the Bay of Pigs. They have to go in, and they have to do it right. It's that simple.
I'm gonna protect those pilots.
How does a man get to a place where he can say, 'throw those lives away,' so easily?
Maybe it's harder for them to say it than they let on. At the very least, they believe it's in our best interest. And at the end of the day, they may end up being right.
That's going to be tough. You know how these guys are about their chains of command...
Any problems, you remind them those chains of commands end at one place. Me.
We can horsetrade with Khruschev on ships. But it doesn't get us any closer to removing those missiles.
Have to hope it's a signal that he'll back down on the real issue too.
He's right, we can't rescind DEFCON 2. The Soviets will think we've gotten sweet on them.
And we can't purge the Chiefs. Our invasion talk will look like a bluff. Or even that there's been an attempted coup.
What's that?
Oh, just a bunch of crap about withdrawing our Jupiter missiles in Turkey if the Soviets'll do the same in Cuba.
I don't want to listen to this again.
If we made a trade, we'd be giving in to extortion, and NATO would never trust us again. We'll get clobbered in world opinion.
It's a goddman trial balloon. Trial is the operative word, here.
Then somebody'd better deny it publicly.
Jesus Christ, O'Donnell, you're the one saying we need to move forward on a political solution.
Yeah, a good political solution.
Didn't know Adlai had it in him. Too bad he didn't have this stuff in '52.
Zorin must not have gotten instructions. Somebody in their Foreign Ministry's blown it bigtime.
Hello?
I've got to move. What do you have, Kenny?
They know each other! Khruschev and Feklisov aka Fomin were war buddies!
You're sure...
Don't take it to court, but we've got good circumstantial evidence... Walter agrees. My gut's telling me Khruschev's turning to a trusted old friend to carry his message.
Okay, Ken. We're going.
We give them something. We tell them we'll remove the missiles from Turkey say, six months from now so that there appears to be no linkage. We also tell them if they go public about it, we deny it and the deal is off.
And we do it under the table so we can disavow any knowledge of it.
Secretary of Defense...
Dean Rusk!
Wrong, and you get to wax my car.
Hey, sport. You winning?
Yeah.
I guess you won't be coming home tonight.
I, uh...
Get back out there, kid. Remember to hit 'em hard.
What about you? Where are you going?
Back to work.
How's my favorite President?
Busy. But you've got his heart.
I want an hour with him.
I said his heart, not his attention.
Three weeks before midterm elections? You need me.
Well. There is a new civil rights initiative he wants to talk about.
I'm doing a piece on Skybolt. I hear Macmillan's meeting with him in Nassau.
Pretending there isn't a problem won't fix it. He can clear the air on Anglo American relations.
Forget it, Scotty.
Let him talk to me, he makes Macmillan look good, I print it, the British public likes it, Macmillan owes you.
It's Tuesday. You said to call. When do I get my 45 minutes?
Tell you what. We're in Connecticut tomorrow for Ribicoff. I'll get you up front with him during the flight.
Deal.
Kenny! What happened? They didn't let me up front, said the President was on the phone the whole time.
He was.
Yeah? Who was he talking to? Acheson? Come on, O'Donnell, everyone's wondering what's going on. What's Acheson doing in town? And don't give me some bullshit about DNC think tanks. Acheson's Mr. Cold War.
Why don't you ask him yourself? You can have him on the way home.
I'm giving you a chance here: talk to me. You can influence how this thing unfolds.
There are major rail disruptions in the South, two airborne divisions are on alert. That exercise is an invasion.
Well, you know how Bobby has it in for the State of Mississippi.
This is about Cuba.
Don't forget, Mrs. Higgins wants to talk to you this afternoon about Kevin. You need to do something about this.
Kids are supposed to get detention.
When are you going to be home?
I don't know, Helen. I want you to keep the kids close tomorrow. Leave the T.V. on, sleep with it on in the bedroom until I tell you you can turn it off.
What's happened?
Nothing. Nothing you don't know about. Tomorrow's the big day. Just have the car ready to go if I call or if the Civil Defense Warning comes on.
What happens to you? I'm not leaving without you.
I'll be evacuated with the President.
If you're home it means either Jack and Bobby have finally figured out what a con man you are and fired you, or 
 we got a back channel communication from Khruschev this evening feeling us out about a deal. He confirmed it just a little while ago in a letter to the President. I think we've won.
A thing like this... who could even think of winning?
I saw you out there. You want him to call you back, need you.
No. I'm glad I'm home.
Max.
McCone's been notified and is coming back from the West coast. Carter's here, though.
We have high confidence in the expanded air strike option. The problem, Mr. President, is that it's a shortterm solution. Khruschev can send more missiles next month. The Chiefs and I believe we should follow up the air strikes with the full version of OPLAN 316.
An invasion...
Yes, sir. We can be sure we get all the missiles, and we remove Castro so this can never happen again.
Is this the Chiefs' recommendation?
Yes, sir. Our best option is to commence the strikes before the missiles are operational. The invasion happens eight days later.
How long until the army is ready?
We've just begun the mobilization under cover of a prearranged exercise, sir. We're looking at another week and a half, Mr. President.
Guess we can't blame Khruschev for a few patriotic farmers. And the ships?
Still heading for Cuba.
All right. Then I guess it's time.
 I have the authority. I am the commanderinchief of the United States, and I say when we go to war!
We are not at war, sir, not until we're at DEFCON 1.
General, the Joint Chiefs have just signaled our intent to escalate to the Soviets. You have signaled an escalation which I had no wish to signal, and which I did not approve.
So which one of you geniuses can tell me how to explain ourselves to the world? How do we work with them if there's been a hardline coup?
Mr. President, there is another possibility we haven't considered. This may not be a coup at all.
Then we have no choice. General, issue the warning orders to our forces. They will be prepared to execute the air strikes Monday morning and the followon invasion according to the schedule thereafter. I'll need the official release orders on my desk Sunday night.
Understood, sir. We need to step up the overflights, finalize our pilots' target folders in order to be able to carry out the strikes.
Does this attack on our plane represent a definitive, intentional escalation on the part of the Soviets?
The Soviets are in control of the SAMs. It's hard to believe with their centralized command structure that it could be an accidental launch.
I am instructed to tell you that the American Government would respond favorably to an offer along the lines you have discussed. If this solution were raised at the U.N. by Ambassador Zorin, he would find a favorable reply from Ambassador Stevenson.
So I understand you correctly. If the missiles in Cuba were dismantled, returned to the Soviet Union, and a guarantee was made not to reintroduce them, the United States would be prepared to guarantee that it would never invade Cuba?
That is correct.
This is from the Highest Authority?
Yes. From the Highest Authority. There are two conditions. The U.N. must be allowed to inspect the removal of the missiles.
And, of course, the U.N. must be allowed to observe the redeployment of forces from the American Southeast.
And the second condition?
Time is of the essence.
John. How much time?
48 hours. In 48 hours there can be no deals.
Hey, Mac. You're up bright and early.
No, Ken. I need to see him now...
What's it about?
Cuba.
Helen just asked me what sort of arrangements we have for the families.
I just checked myself. They're being issued identity cards. Call comes, and evacuation officers meet them at prearranged departure areas. They go by helicopter to Mount Weather. We meet them there.
What did you think of Lippman's column this morning?
I think it's a bad idea.
You gotta stop 'em. We know it's Jack and Bobby's idea  they leaked it to Lippman. The military guys are going ape, and they're not alone.
Then they should speak up.
Christ, Ken, you know it's not that easy.
Yes it is.
No it isn't. They don't trust the people that feel this way. But these people are right. And the Kennedys are wrong. We need you to tell 'em, Kenny. They'll listen to you.
Jack and Bobby are good men. But it takes a certain character, moral toughness to stand up to 
 You listen to me. Nobody, nobody, talks about my friends that way. You're fucking here right now because of the Kennedys. They may be wrong. They make mistakes. But they're not weak. The weak ones are these 'people' who can't speak their own minds.
You know I don't mean they're weak.
The sun came up today.
Yeah.
It shouldn't have. But it did.
Every day the sun comes up... says something about us.
Says what, Kenny?
Who gives a shit about the midterms now? The Soviets are putting nuclear weapons ninety miles away from us.
You mean there's something more important than votes? Didn't think I'd live to see the day, Ken.
The other thing is...
...I know. CIA and the military fucked us on the Bay of Pigs.
They're going to be pressing for a military solution soon. We can't afford to let them ram their agenda down our throats. We need to come with options other than air strikes so we have some sort of choice here.
We got a bunch of smart guys. We lock 'em up together in there, kick 'em in the ass til they come up with options.
I'll do it.
It's too politicized with you in there, anyway. They need to be able to stick their necks out.
It'll be the principals, a couple of the key guys from each department: the Executive Committee of the National Security Council. We'll call it EXCOM.
Jack, I'm as conniving as they come, but a sneak attack is just wrong.
He's right. And things are happening too fast. It smells like the Bay of Pigs all over again.
What happened to speak when spoken to?
Give it a rest. You were thinking the same thing, just didn't have the guts to take the heat.
Jesus...
Rescind the order. Can all the Chiefs. Put Nitze, Gilpatric and the Undersecretaries in charge.
We can't do that, Bobby.
Adlai's too weak! We have to convince Jack to pull him, get McCloy in there.
You can't take him out this late in the game.
Zorin will eat him alive!
Then talk to your brother, goddamn it. The two of you don't need any advice to get into trouble.
What's gotten into you?
Oh, still sore about this.
Something your father would've come up with.
My father 
 I'm just trying to make a point. This idea is that fucking bad.
Adlai can handle Zorin. He knows the inning and the score.
He better. Because nobody thinks he's up to this. Nobody.
Where've you been? We've been trying to find you all morning.
Helen and I went out for breakfast. EXCOM's not supposed to convene til eight.
We just got a second letter from Khruschev. The deal's off.
We're getting everyone together as fast as we can.
What does the letter say?
They want us to take our missiles out of Turkey along with the no invasion pledge. It looks like Fomin was a ploy after all, and they were just stalling for time.
And?
And Jack wants to trade the missiles in Turkey.
The Jupiters are obsolete. They were supposed to have been dismantled last summer anyway 
 Jesus, Mary and Joseph. I told you how stupid it was to float the Lippman article! But you wouldn't listen to me. What if there hasn't been a coup at all? What if it's you two who invited that second letter by raising the possibility of a trade?
All right, so maybe we overestimated how reasonable this trade would look. Okay? You happy? So now what?
So now you've got to talk him out of it. And then we've got to figure out an acceptable political solution.
And if there has been a coup and there is no acceptable political solution?
We gave so much to get here. I don't know. Sometimes I think what the hell did we do it for?
Because we knew we could do a better job than everyone else.
Slow down. Smell that?
Smoke.
Just wanted to see for myself. They're burning their documents.
Yeah?
Kenny. It's over.
Good.
Where the hell are you?
Jesus Christ, guys. What the hell's Khruschev thinking?
Did you have any indication of this from Georgi? Any possible warning or sense of motivation?
Complete snowjob. And then we went out and told the country they weren't putting missiles into Cuba. By the way, you realize we just lost the midterms.
He's right, Jack. Taylor is saying we may have some time. We've got to use it.
So if there are alternatives that make sense  and I'm not saying there are  we need 'em. Need 'em fast.
What about the allies? Congress? I think we may need to start letting key people know. And they're all scattered across the country for the campaign. We're going to need to get the U.N. staff in and warmed up. Jesus... I don't even know if we've got secure communications with half our embassies since that the Soviets got that cryptographer of ours.
We can't worry about everything right now. We've got to figure out what we're going to do before we worry about how we do it.
As if dealing with the Russians wasn't hard enough, we gotta worry about our own house.
Tonight, listening to Taylor and Acheson, I kept seeing Burke and Dulles telling me all I had to do was sign on the dotted line. The invasion would succeed. Castro would be gone. Just like that. Easy.
There's still no sign they know that we know about the missiles. Been a lot of cloud cover; probably think we aren't getting any good product.
We keep 'em in the dark as long as we can. But I sure as hell am going to test him.
Lying bastard. Lied to my face.
We're split down the middle. If I held a vote I think airstrike would beat blockade by a vote or two.
I want a consensus, Bobby. Consensus. Either air strike or blockade. Something everyone'll stand by even if they don't like it. I need it by Saturday. Make it happen.
What if I can't?
Well, I'm not.
Then you'll call, right?
Goddamn Stevenson. Jesus. Peace at any price. You'd think nobody learned anything from World War Two.
Somebody had to say it. I respect Adlai for having the guts to risk looking like an appeaser.
We have to pull him. He's not going to be able to handle the Soviets in front of the U.N. Zorin will eat him alive.
We've got bigger problems right now.
We're going to have to stop a ship eventually, show the quarantine's got teeth, or we'll prove McCone right.
McNamara's on his way back here now. We need to pick the right ship. No subs. No armed boarding parties either. We need a little more time to figure this one out.
He gets it, but he's pissed.
That's all well and good, but what do we say to 'em?
We were just debating who had it worse, us or George Washington and his guys.
He didn't have to worry about nuclear weapons.
Yeah, but the country didn't even exist as a country yet. It was a mess, and he didn't have a leg to stand on.
How does a guy get a rep like that?
Doesn't matter to me. If I went down in history like Adams, I'd die happy. All they say about him today is 
This private assurance represents the word of the Highest Authority?
Yes.
And it can be relayed beyond Comrade Khruschev's ears to the top circles of my government
Of course. Our pledge can be relayed to any government official Secretary Khruschev sees fit to satisfy.
With the caveat that it is not made public in any way, shape or form. And we must have an answer tomorrow at the latest. I cannot stress this point enough.
Tomorrow...
Tomorrow...
Which is exactly what they appear to be preparing to do, Mr. President. We're tracking 26 ships inbound to Cuba. There's no sign they're changing course. The closest ships, the Gagarin and the Kimovsk, will make the quarantine line by this time tomorrow.
We're concerned about the possibility of an incident with an innocent cargo carrier. If it turns ugly, the Russians could use an ugly incident and bad world opinion as leverage to force us to remove the quarantine.
We've been hailing the Groznyy for the last hour, Mr. Secretary. The Groznyy refuses to stop.
What are you doing?
Carrying out our mission, Mr. Secretary. If you don't mind, we're very busy right now. We need to be able to do our jobs.
Admiral, I asked you a question.
Yes, Captain, you may proceed. Clear your guns.
What 
Starshells.
Get out of our way, Mr. Secretary. The navy has been running blockades since the days of John Paul Jones.
I believe the President made it clear that there would be no firing on ships without his express permission.
With all due respect, Mr. Secretary, we were not firing on the ship. Firing on a ship means attacking the ship. We were not attacking the ship. We were firing over it.
This was not the President's intention when he gave that order. What if the Soviets don't see the distention? What if they make the same mistake I just did? There will be no firing anything near ANY Soviet ships without my express permission, is that understood, Admiral?
Yes, sir.
And I will only issue such instructions when ordered to by the President. John Paul Jones... you don't understand a thing, do you, Admiral?
Piggyback ride.
I don't mind. If you think he can hold me.
We're here, Warren. You wanna get off?
Giddyup.
Franks and beans!
Jesus, I think her brother spotted me.
How are you doing, Warren?
Good, Ted. Piggy back ride?
I'm gonna take a rain check.
See you, Warren.
Huh...?
See you, Warren.
Bye, Ted.
Hey.
So what's up?
Eh.
Great. Great. So listen, uh, I was wondering if maybe you wanted to go to the prom you know, with me.
It's no big deal, whatever I mean, if you want.
See, the thing is, I heard a rumor that this guy I like was gonna ask me.
Uhhuh.
Yeah, so... I'm gonna wait and see what happens there... But that sounds great, yeah.
Okay. So is that a yes or a no?
I think I was very clear, Ted. If everything else falls apart, maybe.
Ho there.
Oh God.
Everything okay here? Neighbors said they heard a lady scream.
Now I've seen it all. What the hell were you thinking?
I wasn't trying 
Is that bubble what I think it is?
Well, there's only one thing to do.
No, no, no, I'll be fine. I'll just hang my shirttail out and work on it in the morning.
Look, son, this'll only hurt for a second.
No! I was pissing!
Yeah, I'll bet you all were. Come on, in the truck.
Charlie, that's mean. Come on in, Ted. Don't listen to Mr. Wise Guy here. He's a joke a minute.
Oh. Oh, that's a good one.
Teddy, hon, are you okay? OH HEAVENS TO PETE!
Would you shhh! Mary's gonna hear us.
Just relax, dear. Now, um... what exactly are we looking at here?
What do you mean?
I mean is it... is it...?
No, no, please!
Teddy, be brave.
Yeah? What do you want?
Um, hi, I'm Ted Peloquin. I'm here to take Mary to the prom.
Prom? You're about twenty minutes late. She just left for the prom with her boyfriend Woogie.
Jesus Christ, guy, what the hell were you doing?!
I was playing a trick. III had a baseball.
What seems to be the situation here? You shit yourself or something?
I wish.
I, uh... I got it stuck.
You got what stuck?
It.
It? Oh it. All right, these things happen, let me have a look. It's not the end of the world.
OH FOR THE LOVE OF GOD!
Shhhhhh!
Shirley, get in here! You gotta see this!
What?! No please, sir 
She's a dental hygienist. She'll know what to do.
Is it the frank or the beans?
I think a little of both.
One guess.
How the hell'd you get the beans all the way up top like that?
I don't know. It's not like it was a well thoughtout plan.
You're looking at him. C'mere and take a look at this beauty.
No, that's really unneces 
Oh yeah. Fine.
Thanks a lot, Ted.
Hey, you're limping. Did you just hurt yourself?
No, it's an old football injury.
Oh, are you on the team?
No, a couple of the players and me were joking around and, uh, I fell off the school.
Oh he can hold you. He weighs two hundredandthirty pounds.
A real Clydesdale, huh Warren?
So who you taking to the prom?
Huh?
The prom  you going?
Oh, I don't know. I think proms are pretty dumb.
'Cause I thought maybe you and I could go if you weren't already taking someone.
I mean dumb in the sense that they only happen once a year.
Hi, Ted.
Hi, Mary.
I'm sorry. I should've told you, he's got a thing about his ears.
Oh. Okay. I gotcha.
Are you all right?
Oh yeah.
Ted, are you okay?
Just a minute.
Ted, I'm so sorry. Are you going to be okay?
You betcha!
You asshole, what are you  Mary! Is that you?
Who's that?
Oh my God... Ted. What are you...? I can't believe this. I haven't seen you since 
Yup, that's right. Junior prom... kinda.
And did everything  ?
Oh yeah, healed right up. No visible scars.
I can't believe he remembered you. He never remembers anybody. You know I tried to call you for weeks after that.
Really? I never got a message.
That's weird. I talked to your brother Jimmy five or six times.
By the way, how's he doing?
He's dead.
Oh, Ted I'm so sorry to hear that.
No, it was a good thing. I mean, good in that it was very quick.
Oh. So... what brings you down here?
Funny story. You see, me and a buddy of mine decided to... ah... you know... just... drive down.
Well you look great. Are you married, do you have kids?
Nope, nope  dodged a few bullets. God, I cannot believe I'm standing here with Mary Jenson.
Actually, it's Mary Brooks now.
Oh... are you... ?
Nope, haven't walked the plank yet. There was this guy back in college who was bothering me... got kind of ugly  a restraining order, the whole bit. Anyway, when I got out of Princeton I changed my name as a precaution.
Jeez... that sounds awful. Hey, what do you say we go out to dinner tonight, catch up on old times?
I'm kidding. I'd really love to, Ted, but the thing is I already have plans. How about tomorrow night?
Mary, we haven't seen each other in twelve years. Don't make me wait another day.
Hey.
Hi, Ted.
You look great.
Thanks.
What's that?
Hm?
On your ear, you've got something.
Sure.
Oh great, I ran out.
Now by killer, you mean...?
I mean he murdered someone and did time back in Boston. The guy's a freak.
Jeez, Mary... I'm...
Well, lucky for me I found out. Thank God I have friends like Tucker. Look, I'm sick of talking about stalkers. Let's talk about you.
You hit the ball pretty good for a fourteen.
No short game.
We should play some time... I mean, if you can afford to lose some money.
What are you?
Twentytwo.
Bullshit, a twentytwo doesn't carry a oneiron  don't sandbag me, lady.
Okay, sometimes I'm a nineteen.
That's more like it. Two more nitratesicles please.
Nitratesicles  I like that.
I say they should put more meats on a stick, you know? They got a lot of sweets on sticks  popsicles, fudgesicles, lollipops  but hardly any meat.
I agree there should be more.
You know what I'd like to see? Meat in a cone. You could put corned beef hash in a cone, or chopped liver.
I like it. And think of the toppings  cheese, mushrooms, mint jelly
Not to mention ketchup and hot peppers.
It's too bad you don't live down here, Ted.
Yeah?
We've got a lot in common.
Well... why don't you move back?
Ah, my roots here are too deep. I love my practice, the people I work with, Warren's got a nice thing going Why don't you just move down here and marry me?
So you're a writer?
Trying to be.
Well good for you. I bet it works out for you.
We'll see. If it doesn't, what the hell, at least I gave it a shot.
That's right. And the good thing is you can do it anywhere.
What about you, Mare? How the hell'd you manage to stay single?
I don't know... My friends think I'm too picky. I think I'm just a weirdo magnet. I did come close once  just last year, in fact. There was this guy he lived in San Francisco.
...and then it was all over. We haven't spoken since.
Wow. That's too bad. He sounds almost perfect.
Yeah... almost. You want to come up and watch Sportscenter?
Uh no. I think I'm gonna get out while I'm ahead.
Ted... you're not that far ahead.
Look, Mary, the truth is... I'll be in town for a while now but I don't think we should see each other for a few weeks.
Why not?
Well... to be honest... I'm really crazy about you and it's making me nervous and when I get nervous I'm not myself and I'm afraid I'm going to doing something really dumb before we get started so I think I should just lay back until I regain my composure.
That's really sweet, Ted, but you should save it for one of your books.
All right, let's go.
Um, Ted, I need a moment with Magda  would you let the dog out of the bathroom.
Yeah, sure.
Uh, Mare, what kind of dog is Puffy?
Toy poodle!
Get out.
Wait, hold on, Mary  it's not as bad as it sounds. I certainly didn't know 
That you put a murderer on my trail?
Well yeah, I didn't know much about him. I just thought 
What did you think, Ted? That you could spy on me and trick me into thinking you were someone I could... really go for?
Mary, I swear I wasn't trying to trick you.
Then what the fuck did you do it for?
I did it because because I'd never stopped thinking about you and if I didn't find you I knew my life would never be good again.
Please leave.
Mary, come on...
Go!
Okay.
Woogie and I went out for awhile in high school.
You're Woogie?
What what are you doing here?
You forgot your keys!
Ted...?
I... I just want you to be happy, Mary.
But I think I'd be happiest... with you.
But but what about Steve?
Oh yeah, that'd make golf real fun  the guy doesn't even drink beer or gamble.
Get over here.
Really?
Really.
Pat's an architect, too.
Hey, no kidding? Where are your offices?
Pat does projects all over the world.
Where would I have seen your work?
What's up, Doc?
Tucker, you look different some how. Did you do something with your hair?
You don't think they're too big?
No no, the bigger the better. But I must say, they could be a little brighter. Nothing's sexier than a mouthful of pearly whites.
He's a nice guy, isn't he?
Well that's what I'm trying to figure out. How long have you known him?
Not long at all, but I really like him. Okay, I know he's a little different, Tucker, but that's what I like about him. He's a guy. A real guy. He dresses like a dork and eats corndogs and he isn't always politically correct and he probably farts, too. And that's okay with me.
That's what you've been looking for  a farter?
I've been looking for a guy  not one of these South Beach pussies.
Look, it's just that something about him struck me as odd last night. He gave me this funny vibe. Anyway, I called some friends back east. They don't know of any architect named Patrick Healy and he's not listed as a Harvard alumnus.
I thought so. Anyway, I hope you don't think I'm being meddlesome. I just think you should be careful with this guy.
No no no, Tucker, thank you.
I mean let's face it, Mary, you're beautiful, you've got money, you trust people  I'm just saying, there's a lot of psychos out there.
I appreciate you looking out for me.
Can I pour you one?
Thanks, but I've got to be going. Unfortunately, Doc, this isn't a social visit.
What's up?
Well... I've got a little more news about your friend Healy.
I think you'd better sit down.
Tucker, I appreciate you doing all this, but I'm really strapped for time here and 
Mary, the man's a killer.
What...?
I've got a friend in the Boston police department. He faxed me this this morning. I'll just give you the highlights. After a short stint as a petty thief, Patrick R. Healy graduated to armed robbery by the age of fourteen. At sixteen he committed his first murder  a pretty teacher's aid named Molly Pettygrove. He was incarcerated until age twentytwo when, despite a grim psychological profile, the state was forced to release him. In his mid twenties and again in his early thirties he was suspected of homicides in the states of Utah and Washington. Unfortunately, the bodies were so badly decomposed that there wasn't enough evidence to hold him, and on and on and so forth and so on.
I can't believe this is happening. I'm supposed to be meeting him in an hour.
Okay, just calm down. It's going to be okay.
Magda's right, I'm so lucky to have you in my life.
Don't get all gooey on me now, you'll give me a big head. The important thing, Doctor, is you've got to distance yourself as much as possible without pissing this psycho off.
Yeah, yeah. Okay, I think I know what to do. I'll call him right now.
Uh, well... not exactly. You see, I exaggerated a little there.
You mean he's not a criminal?
Name's Norm. I live up in Pompano with my folks.
Oh Jesus...
Have you been up all night again?
Bet your ass I have. It's an important job, Neighborhood Watch is.
Neighborhood Watch? Is that what you call listening in on stranger's phone conversations?
These ain't strangers, they're neighbors. This only picks up signals in a halfmile radius.
Meaning?
Meaning these are the people you live amongst, you got a right to know if they're creeps. For instance, did you know there's a guy down the hall cheating on his wife?
You picked that up on the scanner. We gotta move.
I confirmed it on the scanner. I knew something was up because Puffy used to bark like hell whenever he saw him and you know Puffy only barks at bad people.
Magda, Puffy barks at everybody.
That's because there's a lot of bad people out there. Hey, Puffy tried to warn you about that Steve guy you was seeing  he was a fucking asswipe  but you had to find out for yourself, didn't you?
Okay, you win. Now try to get some sleep, huh.
Jesus, Mary, you gotta hear this  some cop's staking out this broad's apartment.
No time, Magda, my show's starting.
So who's the lucky guy?
Name's Patrick, I met him at the driving range.
Good lookin'?
He's no Steve Young.
What's he like?
I don't know. He's kind of a mook.
What's a mook?
You know, a mookalone, a schlep.
Then why you going out with him if he's a schlep?
Come on, Magda It's like that movie Harold and Maude.
I don't watch the new ones.
This one's almost thirty years old. It's about a young kid and an old lady who fall in love.
That's exactly why I don't watch 'em anymore  it's bullshit! Why the hell would an old lady go for a young kid?
The point is, love isn't about money or social standing or age, it's about connecting with someone, having things in common kindred spirits.
Fuck kindred spirits. My little Puffy here's gonna tell you all you need to know about this guy in about two seconds flat. If he starts yapping, he's a loser; if Puffy's relaxed... well, you got yourself a keeper.
Sure. Uh, Magda, why don't you get some more cheese and crackers...?
Oh, yeah, of course, dear.
Bundt cake?
Must have a sweet tooth. See if you can find some cookies.
Hey hey, what did you say Pat's last name was?
Healy.
I'm buying bananas tonight.
Why?
Back when I was your age I always used to make myself a big banana split after sex. I think you're gonna need one tonight.
Don't get ahead of yourself. You'll probably need it before I will.
Don't bet on it. Last time I had a pap smear the guy needed leather gloves and an oyster shucker.
So maybe I could find a nice gentleman to take you to the movies.
Knock it off, Pollyanna, just 'cause you're in love doesn't mean everyone else has to be.
Love? Come on, I wouldn't call it love.
Oh no? I ain't seen you beaming like this since you broke ninety on the Blue Monster.
An old flame?
Kind of. Ted Peloquin  one of the sweetest guys in the world.
You vicious bitch, how do you sleep at night?
I can't do it  I just found out it's his birthday. I guess I've gotta cancel on Ted.
Holy shit...
Puffy, get over here.
Magda!
The little shit lied to me about that guy!
Oh, hi hon. Just straightening up.
Where's Puffy?
Ah, he was being a pest so I put him in the bathroom.
No, it should be 'a hockey player with great pecs.'
Ugh, not pecs. Sounds like one of those guys with a fishnet shirt and a banana hammock.
I can live with those reflections.
I'm sick of these caloriecountin' pansies. Give me a guy who likes kielbasa and beer and playing thirty six holes and still has enough energy to take me and Warren out to a ballgame.
Jeez, I don't know where you're ever going to find a guy like that.
But here's the rub. The guy I'm talking about has got to be self employed.
Yeah, and you'd probably dump the poor guy halfway to Katmandu.
What's that supposed to mean?
It means you're too hard on guys.
No I'm not.
Oh come off it, Mare. What about what'shisname... Steverino? You could've at least passed the baton on that one.
Yeah, Steve. Steve was all right for awhile.
All right for awhile? The guy's good looking, rich, witty. He was a god.
I don't know, it was complicated. He's in San Francisco, I'm in Miami. Besides, Magda's psychic dog hated him.
Is that old crab still with you? Mary, you said you were putting her up for a month  it's been a year and a half.
Ah, she's okay.
What? Steve seemed to put up with Warren.
I don't want someone who'll put up with him. I want someone who will enjoy him, the way I do. Do you know what he told my friend Tucker? He said he would've popped the question a lot earlier if Warren wasn't in my life. Well he is in my life and I'm goddamn lucky to have him. The hell with Steve.
Thanks for picking me up.
No prob, I could use the company. I've been on the road going on fifteen hours straight.
I know how you feel  I been standing in the same spot for the last five hours. You know it's against the law to pick up a hitchhiker in this state.
That must make it tough.
Sucks. So what's up? You some kind of salesman or something?
Nah. I'm... I'm nothing.
Oh. Well I am.
Hm?
A salesman  that's what I am. I mean, I'm gonna be anyway. I'm starting my own company  video sales  just as soon as I get enough seed money.
'That right? Good for you.
Yeah, you wouldn't believe my idea  it's a home run. You ever hear of EightMinute Abs?
The exercise tape? Sure, I've seen it on T.V.
Two million copies it sold last year. Two million, man. But not next year  my idea's gonna blow them outta the water. Get this: SevenMinute Abs.
I see where you're going.
Think about it. You walk into a video store and you see EightMinute Abs and right next to it you see Seven Minute Abs  which one you gonna spring for?
I'd go with the seven.
Bingo. Especially since we guarantee you'll get every bit as good a work out.
How do you guarantee that?
Well it's the company motto: 'If you ain't happy we'll send you the extra minute.'
Huh. That sounds great. Unless someone else comes out with SixMinute Abs.
Pleasure to meet you, Patrick.
Same here.
Mainly I work out of Boston.
Boston, huh? Did you get your degree up there?
Yes yes, I did get my degree up there.
Harvard?
You bet.
Did you study under Kim Greene?
Among others.
Kim and I are close friends!
Well, I'll tell her I ran into you.
You mean him.
Really? But he's been married for twenty years  they've got six kids.
Nice smokescreen, isn't it?
Have you been to Let's see  Santiago, Chile?
Absolutely! I was there twice last year. Which building is yours?
Do you know the... soccer stadium?
Did you build the Estadio Olympico?
No... just down the street, the Amigo Tower.
I'm sorry, I'm not familiar with it. What style?
Uh, sort of nouveau Deco... with a big vestibule. Check it out next time you're up there.
You know, I really should take your card.
Oh look, it's Doob! Will you excuse me a minute, Tucker?
Okay, Pat, take it easy  don't do anything stupid.
Who the fuck do you think you are making up that bullshit about me?!
Whoa, whoa  I don't know what you're talking about.
Maybe this'll jog your memory.
That stalker Ted got to you, right? You're working for him, aren't you, you little shit?
Who?
You what?
You heard me, goddamnit. I... I love her.
I'm a phony  just like you, man.
What do you mean?
I mean I'm a fucking fraud. I'm no architect. Don't be a putz  who's been to Santiago twice in a year? Estadio Olimpico  please!
But... but you knew people at Harvard.
I knew shit. The only thing I knew was that you were a fake and I made up everything else. My real name's Norm. I deliver pizzas.
Bullshit!
...So then in '94 I went back to Dade Community College for a semester and when the WalMart cashier job fell through I hooked up with the Pizza Barn.
And you met Mary how?
Just dumb luck. I delivered a pie to her one night and she answered the door in her nightgown  that was it for me. I went home that night, shaved my beard, and a week later I was laid out in her office with a broken back.
How'd you manage that one?
Friend. Baseball bat.
Nice.
Oh yeah, the plan was going along just fine until you showed up.
Hey, hey, hey, I'm not the one who started telling baldfaced lies about the competition  that's crossing the line!
What line? The day you first laid your oily rap on my future wife you started a war!
Future wife? Get real, man  you're nothing more than a glorified brother in her eyes.
Why you son of a 
That stalkin' sonofabitch!
Fucking sickening.
How many is that?
Four.
That seems like a lot of speed for a little pooch  you sure it won't kill him?
I never said that.
Holy shit.
Hey, this is a pretty nice place.
Sully...! What the fuck happened here?!
You little fuck.
What?
You fucking prick, we had a deal  you said you wouldn't fuck me and I wouldn't fuck you until we had this fuck out of the fucking picture. You crossed the line, man.
I swear! I didn't tell her nothing! You probably did it yourself, you piece of shit.
Oh that makes a lot of sense. Why would I rat myself out?
Like I'm going to try to figure out a guy who's idea of courting is blowing farts in the chick's face
You were following us?
Don't flatter yourself  I was following her, I always do. How the hell you think I got rid of Mary's boyfriend Steve?
Oh... Sully.
Look, if it wasn't you who sent the letter, and it wasn't me who sent it?
So, Dom tells me you're looking for some ladyfriend you knew in high school.
Uhhuh.
Any idea where I might start looking?
She moved to Miami Beach twelve years ago. I checked directory assistance down there and she's not listed. She might've moved ten times since then.
All you want is a phone number?
Well, I know you're busy...
Don't play games with me, Ted.
I don't know, maybe you could poke around for a half day and see if she has five kids and a Labrador.
I don't buy it.
You don't buy what?
Ted, I'm the kind of guy who shoots from the hip. Now I want you to level with me: Did you knock this skirt up?
No.
She's blackmailing you, right?
No.
You want her dead, don't you?
You can't be serious.
Do you really expect me to believe this is a straight stalker case?
I'm not a stalker! She's a friend of mine.
Sure she is. That's why she got an unlisted number and you haven't heard squat from her in a dozen years. Oh you're good, Ted. You're a real piece of work.
Look, let's forget it. Let's forget the whole thing.
I get one hundred a day plus expenses.
You get fifty a day, period. It's a business trip, they'll pay for your expenses.
I've got some very, very good news for you, my friend.
Really? Very, very?
I think your life's about to change.
So you found Mary?
Right there in Liberty City. And you were right, she's really something.
So she hasn't changed?
That I couldn't say. Let me ask you something: Was she a little bigboned in high school?
No, not at all.
Well she must've packed on a few pounds over the years.
Mary's a little chubby, huh?
I'd say about a deuce, deuce and a half. Not bad.
But you know, you shit out a bunch of kids, you're going to put on a few pounds.
So she's married?
Nope. Never been.
Huh?
Four kids, three different guys.
Three different guys?
Well I'm guessing. There's a black kid, two whites, and a midget.
Oh my.
Hyperactive little fuckers, too. Tough to keep up with in a wheelchair, I bet.
She's in a wheelchair?!
Don't look so shocked, it's been a long time. I bet you've changed a lot over the last twelve years, haven't you?
It's just that... Mary. I wouldn't have thought...
Anyway, the good news is I have all the information you need. Got it from her bookie  nice guy. You should definitely call her, Ted. I mean she's a real sparkplug, that one. She seems determined to get those rugrats off welfare and with your help I'll bet she does it.
Thanks, Healy. Good work.
Ted? Don't you want the name of the housing project?
Uh, that's okay.
You sure, big guy? I'll bet she'd love to hear from you before her mastectomy!
What are you doing?
Oh, uh, I resigned.
Miami?
Yeah, this insurance business is too slow for me. I'm going to go down and try my hand at jai alai.
Jai alai?
Yeah, I don't know why but I always felt at home in the fronton.
Look, uh, I've been thinking about everything you told me.
Good good.
Well I think you're right, I should look her up.
Rollerpig? Are you nuts?
But you said she was a sparkplug...?
I said buttplug. She's heinous.
All the same, I still want to call her. I know it sounds crazy  Mary sure has a lot of troubles in her life  but, I don't know, maybe I can help her out. The poor thing's had it tough  she's in a wheelchair for Godsakes.
It's a goddamn bunion. It'll heal.
Oh. I thought That's not it anyway. I know this doesn't make any sense to you, but I just can't turn it off that fast. I still feel something for her.
Okay, tell you what: I'll get her number for you just as soon as she gets back from Japan.
Japan? What's she doing in Japan?
You've heard of mailorder brides? Well they go that way, too.
Mary's a mailorder bride?
Fetched a pretty penny, too. Don't forget, it's the Sumo culture, they pay by the pound there. Sort of like tuna.
Hey, hey, hey!
Surprised?
You fucked me, man? Why would you do that?
What do you mean 'why'?
Answer the question, shitball.
Look, you asked me to follow your girl around, and I did and I started to like her, and then I realized I just couldn't in good conscience do it.
Do what?
Turn her over to a stalker.
What?! You're calling me a stalker?
That's right  if you weren't you would've looked for her yourself!
Oh Christ... poor dog.
You're a sick man, you know that?
Yeah well fuck you! You just can't stand the fact that it was my turn.
Your turn?
That's right, hot shot! My turn. What's the matter with me, huh? Why can't I ever get the great girl? Give the big pig with the B.O. to Healy, right? Well I was sick of it, man! No more  it was my turn. It was time for me... time for me... to be happy.
Well you didn't have to blow us both out of the water. Jesus Christ, just because she found out about you, why'd you have to take me down with you?
I don't know what you're talking about.
I'm talking about the letter, asshole.
What?
Are you telling me you didn't send Mary a letter outlining our deal?
Why the fuck would I do that? I'd be screwing myself.
I'm just saying I don't mind a guy with a bit of a beer belly. It means he's a guy. You can have those pretty boys who hang out in a gym all day staring at their reflections.
A girl after your own heart, Ted.
Yeah, don't talk in someone's backswing.
Thanks.
I'm gonna get a soda, you want one?
No thanks.
Oh cripes. Do you have change for a dollar? All I have is these stupid Nepalese coins.
Nepal? Have you been?
Not in months. I don't even know why I bought the damn place.
You own a home there?
Well... it's just a condo really. Right outside Katmandu.
Wow. That's a place I've always wanted to go. Is it true the mountains are so tall you can't see the tops?
Not 'til you get about three hundred yards from the summit. That's been my experience anyway.
Here. Spend it on your trip to Katmandu.
Thanks.
Well, it was nice meeting you, again.
Same here again.
By the way, what's your name?
Pat Healy.
Don't you want to know my name?
I already know it, Mary.
How'd you know that?
It's right there on your golf bag.
What are you doing with all these blueprints?
Some buildings I'm working on.
Are you... an architect?
Well, just until I get my PGA Tour card.
I'm kidding. Yeah, I guess you could call me an architect  it's just a job really, a way to keep me moving. My real passion is my hobby.
What's that?
I work with retards.
I beg your pardon?
You know... ...the guys who ride the short bus.
Isn't that a little politically incorrect?
The hell with that. No one's gonna tell me who I can and can't work with.
No, I mean
 There's this one kid, we call him Mongo on account of he's a mongoloid. He got out of his cage once and 
 He's in a cage?!
Well it's more of an enclosure really.
They keep him confined? That's bullshit!
That's what I said, so I went out and got him a leash you know, one of those clothesline runners for the backyard. He's got plenty of room out there to dig. The kid's really blossomed. Now I can take him to ball games, movies  you know, happy stuff.
That sounds like fun.
Yeah, it's fun for them, but it's heaven for me. Those goofy bastards are just about the best thing I have in this crazy old world. Ooh, hey, I gotta run.
Look, uh, I was thinking maybe we should go have dinner sometime.
Oh, Pufferball likes his little tum tum rubbed, doesn't he now?
Wow, I've never seen him like this. He doesn't usually like guys.
Sorry, Pat, out of beer. You like vodka?
Great.
Fine. Fine.
Here you go. What's that smell?
The museum? I thought we were going out to dinner?
We will, but first I have a surprise.
A surprise?
The architecture exhibit! My friend Tucker is going to be here. He's an architect, too. You guys will have tons to talk about.
I know he's around here someplace.
What say we get outta here and go crush a bucket?
We just got here thirty seconds ago. Isn't this stuff great?
Is this one art deco or art nouveau?
Deco.
Would you call that a portico or a vestibule?
That...? Vestibule.
How about  ?
When you look at architecture, try not to concern yourself with the pieces  look at the building in its totalitarianism.
That grandmother of yours  she's really something.
Magda? She's not my grandmother  actually she rents the apartment right next to mine. Her husband passed away a couple years ago so she doesn't like to be alone.
And it doesn't cramp your style?
Sadly, no. Well except for the lint.
Lint?
Yeah, I think it's that dog of hers running around on the rug all day  just makes for a lot of lint. Look at this...
You know, sometimes I wish I could be like Magda and not go home. I'd like to just bounce around for awhile, do a little traveling...
Why bounce when you have your own condo in Nepal to go to?
Ah, I'd sell that. Start fresh in a new place, quit the architect game, slow things down, read more books, see more movies...
You're a movie buff?
Try to be. It's tough going with the crap they make today. If Dumb and Dumber's the best they've got to offer I say thanks but no thanks.
Have you seen it?
No. But the Boston Globe critic Jay Carr hated it.
A fucking moron.
Huh. I guess I just wish they made them like they used to. You know, something like The Heartbreak Kid... or Harold and Maude.
Harold and Maude is my alltime favorite movie.
Ouch. Come on, don't bust my chops. I know it's corny, but I do love it.
Pat, I'm not kidding. I really think it's the greatest 
 Love story of our time.
Yeah.
Wow. I thought I was the only one.
So...
Yeah... I guess this is it, huh?
I guess.
Well, I'll see ya.
Mary ah, forget it.
What?
No, forget it, it was stupid.
Come on, what were you going to say?
Nah, really, it was moronic.
Fuck!!
Huh... that's strange.
Turn it up, Magda.
Hey, watch your mouth  she's a great gal. I'm the dumbshit for lying to her.
All set.
You look great. Hey, Mare, do I have a rip in the back of these pants?
How's my stomach taste, she says. Hey thanks for picking up the lunch tab, Mare. Sorry I forgot my wallet. I feel like a dog.
Forget it. It was... fun.
Urrggghh...
Warren!
Are you okay?
Not to worry. So... see you tonight, right? Right?
Sure.
No!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
We're gonna go out tonight. Oh, that reminds me, I've got to call what's hisface and cancel.
Hi, I'm out drinking champagne and roses... and I'm really happy. Leave a message. BEEP.
Uh, hey buddy. Oh boy, am I pissed. You're not going to believe this  well, you'll believe it, there's no reason not to  but I just got beeped for emergency surgery. Well, um, sorry, but I'm going to have to bail on you.
Woogie, please, you're starting to scare me.
Who the hell's Woogie?
I say none of us leave this room until our young Mary here stops jerking us around and decides once and for all who she wants. Now Mary, I know this is difficult but you really will be doing them all a favor to tell them the truth about us.
Are you crazy? Why would I pick you? You're a murderer.
Healy you dog!
Fucking Sully! Look at you!
You hot shit. Ya look fuckin' pisser.
Here's the info you asked for.
Thanks.
You should thank me  that girl was not easy to find. What'd she scam you out ofsome insurance dough?
Nah, some guy threw me a few bucks to track down his high school girlfriend.
Stalker, huh?
Big time.
Very nice.
I'm doing okay. I gotta get ready for work.
Okay? With this pad, the killer wheels? Looks like you really cleaned up your act.
What can I tell you? It's a healthier lifestyle down here, and it's easier to succeed when your head's clear. Those guys I worked with back in Boston, they were a bad influence.
Fuckin' animals. Hey, what do you say we go grab a couple drinks.
Not for me, buddy. I don't drink anymore.
Yeah, and you don't drink any less, right?
Take it easy, that's Bill.
Tell Bill to get the fuck off!
Relax, he just ate.
Nineteen months I been sober.
What are you talking about? You were never an alky, you were a cokehead.
Yeah, well when you quit blow, you gotta quit the booze, too.
Is that right? Well good for you, Sull, I'm proud of you.
Here, just have one of these then.
Healy, what I just tell you?
This is a light beer. You can't have a light beer?
No I can't.
I'm worried about you, man. You better learn to have a pop once in a while or you're gonna fall off the wagon. You're being a fanatic and that ain't healthy.
Am I?
Bet your ass you are. Now I don't want to hear anymore of your happy horseshit. You gotta learn how to bend a little or believe me... you're gonna break.
Jesus, you know what? This shit doesn't even taste good to me anymore.
Ah, fuck ya then, you big pussy. What are you, spotting?
Hello...? Sully...? Sully, that you?
Who the fuck is it to you?
Sully, it's Healy. What's going on over there?
Uh, I'm fine. Just wanted to let you know I'll have your car back in a couple hours, I'm still staking out this girl's apartment.
You found my car?!
So where the hell are you, Healy?
Ah, I got a date tonight with that Mary girl I told you about.
The sawbones?
Yep.
Oh yeah.
Dumbshit.
Why didn't you just tell her the truth?
I don't know. I guess... it just seems that women today are more impressed by the mighty buck than by some schmo who spent the last seventeen years scraping by on Peace Corp wages.
But Jesus, Pat, if she's as special as you say, she's going to want to hear about the things you did.
Ahh.
The bottom line is, I'm not going to use my philanthropy as some form of currency... especially after what I did. I lied to this poor girl. Lied, man. She deserved better.
Hey, love will make you do fuckedup things.
You said it, mister. I gotta go.
This is a good one, Mare. Sounds like his partner's all lubed up.
Call you back.
You mean he doesn't like bad guys.
'That right?
He can tell you're an animal nut. You are, aren't ya?
Truth is I usually get along better with animals than with people. In Nepal the villagers call me 'Kintan tee', which means 'man who is loved by many animals... ...who love him a lot, too... and so on.'
Would you like a glass of tea or something?
You got a brew?
Would you like a little clamdip, honey?
No, thanks. Love a little bundt cake if you have some!
We're in love with your roommate.
Aw, Christ, I can't take it anymore. I'm gonna pack my bags and go back to my own place.
Why don't you be a gentleman and ask Rosey?
Who?
Who?
Big guy  goes to Barrington high school.
Woogie from Borrington high? Sounds like a loser.
Loser? Woogie was allstate football and and basketball and valedictorian of his class.
I got twenty bucks says you're full of shit.
Oh come on, why would I lie?
Because you're a loser, and in some warped way this gives you a momentary sense of worth.
So... I see you made the news.
It wasn't my truck  I was helping out a guy in a wheelchair.
Uhhuh. Where was he?
Out getting coffee.
Yeah, that's more or less what the others said, too. Out getting coffee... supposed to meet him here... picking up my grandma...
Bob, do you remember Mary?
Who?
Mary.
From high school Mary? Yeah, I saw her about six months ago at a convention in Las Vegas.
A convention? How'd you see her at a convention?
I'm an orthopedic surgeon, she's an orthopedic surgeon.
Gay? He said you were gay?
He implied it.
Well you're a writer, and a lot of writers are gay. Look at Truman Capote.
Yeah, but he was successful.
Let me ask you this: When you smoke a cigar, do you ever pretend it has balls?
Come on, that wouldn't make me gay.
I'm going to fix you up with my new assistant.
What's he like?
You're leaving it out. Finish your swing. You're going to like this one  she's half Asian, half American.
Goodlooking?
I just told you, she's half Asian. half American. They're all good looking. You could mate Don Rickles and Yoko Ono and they're going to have a gorgeous kid. It's a foolproof combo.
What's the point? Let's face it, Dom, I'm in a slump. Lately I've been feeling like... well... like a loser.
Loser? You?
Give me a break. Remember five years ago, when your kidneys failed? If you were a loser would they have been able to find a donor with an exact tissue match? What are the odds of that, one in a million?
Oh, so I'm lucky because my brother got killed in an explosion?
I never said that. I'm saying your lucky those kids found his kidneys. Besides, your brother Jimmy never gave a shit about you.
It must be great with a wife like that.
Each day is better than the next. Have you ever been, you know... in love with someone?
Nah.
Never?
Well once. Mary.
Mary again.
Look, I admit it was brief, but it was definitely love. Crushes don't last twelve years.
Whatever happened to Mary?
I told you, her family moved to Miami.
I mean since then.
I don't know.
Well why don't you look her up?
Yeah, right.
Why not?
Because I guarantee she's married and has a couple kids. Girls like Mary don't stay single.
What if you're wrong? You just said she's the only girl you ever loved, what have you got to lose by calling her?
I did try calling her. A few years ago. She wasn't listed.
So that was it? One bump in the road and you gave up?
I also called Unsolved Mysteries.
You're kidding? What did they say?
They told me they don't help out stalkers. Look, maybe they're right, it's been a long time.
I got it  you hire a private eye, fly him out there, he follows her around a couple days, she'll never know a thing.
I don't know about this, Dom.
Relax, this guy owes me a big one. A couple years ago he got in a jam up in the Boston office; some bullshit about padding his resume  like we haven't all done that. Anyway, they were going to let him go but his mother wrote a tearjerker letter that ended up on my desk.
His mother?
Yeah, I guess he still lives with her. Seemed like a sweet lady  got diabetes or something  so I went out on a limb and got him transferred down to Providence.
And you think he could find out her number for me?
He'll do better than that. I'll send him down to Miami on business, you throw him a couple bucks on the side, and he'll track her down.
That's it, I'm making an oath. I'll never procrastinate about anything again. Life is too fucking short.
Hey, look on the bright side 
What's that, Dom? What's the bright side?
Well... at least now you know.
I think it was better when I didn't. It was kind of inspiring to know there was someone so pure in the world.
What's so funny?
I'm sorry, it's just that you're taking this all wrong, pal. Don't you see? You're liberated. I feel liberated. I mean here you've been in therapy thinking you blew it with the greatest girl ever, and it turns out that getting your dick stuck in your zipper was the best thing that ever happened to you!
Wait a second, I never told you that.
Christ, Ted, I was only four towns away.
Maybe you're right. I should look on the bright side. I mean, I've still got my health... I'm out of here. I've got to get up at six a.m. to move my boss's brother into his apartment.
What? On your day off? Do you even know the guy?
Never met him.
Jesus, Ted, you've got to finish that damn novel so you can quit that stupid magazine.
Amen to that.
Mary's a babe!
What?
My Mary  she's not in Japan, she's single, and she's got no rugrats. She does have a little gambling problem, she plays the football cards a bit too much, but she's a babe, a surgeon babe!
Huh? But why did Healy?
Well think about it.
No You mean...?
Uhhuh.
The lazy fuck just didn't bother to look her up.
That sneaky prick was probably practicing his jai alai.
Well then you've got to call her, man.
Fuck calling her. I'm going down there.
You are one lucky sonofabitch, you know that?
I am?
Didn't they tell you? That hitcher was just about to cut your throat when you stopped to take a leak. You got a fucking horseshoe up your ass, man.
Yeah feels like it.
How the hell did you get here anyway?
Flew. Told my wife I was going to a Promise Keepers convention.
Shoot.
Remember our friend Healy? Well, I didn't know where to mail his last paycheck so I sent my assistant by his mother's apartment. Turns out there is no diabetic mom. Landlord said she's been dead for ten years.
And this adversely affects me how...?
Don't you see?  Healy lied to us about everything! The landlord said when he got back from Miami he kept talking about falling for some doctor named Mary!
Fuck me. Let's go home.
No! You've gone through way too much to back down now. Get over there and do something  I can't stand watching this.
Well? What are you waiting for?
I don't know what to say.
Tell her the truth about Healy! Blow the schmuck out of the water.
Are you crazy? I've unleashed a psycho on her. She's gonna be fucking pissed. She's even more beautiful than I remember.
Oh God, I'm fucking nervous. I don't know if I'm ready for this, man.
Just relax. Have you hit the cash machine?
Got cash.
Car clean? Plenty of gas?
Check.
Mints?
Copped a tin of Altoids at the car wash.
Okay, sounds like you're all set. Just clean the pipes and it's a go.
Hm?
You know, clean the pipes.
Pipes? What are you talking about?
You jerk off before all big dates, right? Tell me you jerk off before your big dates.
Think about it: After you've had sex with a girl and the two of you are laying in bed, are you nervous?
No.
Why's that?
I'm usually too tired to be.
Wrong. It's because you ain't got the baby batter in your brain any more. That'll fuck with your head, that stuff will.
Huh.
The most honest moment in a man's life is the five minutes after he's blown a load. That's a medical fact. And it's because you're no longer trying to get laid. You're actually thinking like a girl. They love that.
Jesus Christ you're right.
You bet your ass I'm right. You don't go out with a loaded gun, you empty the barrels!
Holy shit, I've been going out with a loaded gun!
People get hurt that way.
Dom? What are you?
You stole her from me. Now I want her back.
Dom Wooganowski. Duh.
But but you're married. You have kids a great wife.
If you're so happy with them, please, be my guest.
Did you get my letter, Mare? The one about Ted?
You sent that?
Uhhuh. I was worried about you.
Well... thank you. But... you know you're not supposed to be within four hundred yards of me.
That's what I want to tell ya. I've been through two years of extensive psychotherapy and you know what? You were right  I needed help.
That's great, Woogie, I'm happy you're better  you seem... good but... you put me through quite an ordeal, you know.
Look at me, Mary. On my mother's soul, on God above, on everything that is holy to me, I did not steal your shoes.
Woogie, I caught you redhanded.
All right, I did, but I was in a weird place then.
I'm asking you to leave.
Oh, Mary, honey, you're taking this all wrong. I'm not leaving...
...Not until I get a little something to remember you by.
Stop that! No! Somebody help me!!!!!
Stop it!
Just one pair! You owe me that much, you heartless bitch!
Isn't that just my luck  I get caught for everything.
So you admit it?
Guilty as charged. I'm not gonna play games with you. I could give you a song and dance but what's the point? I did it and we all know it. The hitcher himself told me it's illegal. The irony...
Well, uh, can you tell us his name?
Jeez, I didn't catch it.
This wasn't your first time, was it, Ted? How many we talking?
Hitchhikers? I don't know  fifty... a hundred maybe  Who keeps track?
No harm, no foul?
I guess.
Hey, shitforbrains, be careful not to scratch that thing, huh?
What?
You heard me. You already put a fucking nick in my piano.
I'll try to be more careful.
S'matter with you? You look like you're fading.
The thing's kind of heavy.
Heavy? Heavy?! What I wouldn't give to know what heavy feels like, you insensitive prick.
No, I just meant...
Yeah yeah. I'm going to the corner to get a cup of coffee.
Hi!
Hi there! You alright?
We're fine! How are you?
Grrrreat!
Where you goin'?
Fresno.
Oh, Jesus!
You probably even called us beavers on your CB radio, didn't you?
Yeah... sure did.
Damn. I hate that! I hate bein' called a beaver, don't you?
We been seein' you all along the way.
Yeah. I been seein' you, too.
What? What are you talkin' about?
You know good and damn well what I'm talkin' about.
You women are crazy!
You got that right.
I'm not apologizing for shit!
Say you're sorry.
Fuck that.
Are you going to apologize or not?
Fuck you.
Well, wait now. I still have to ask Darryl if I can go.
You mean you haven't asked him yet? For Christ sake, Thelma, is he your husband or your father? It's just two days. For God's sake, Thelma. Don't be a child. Just tell him you're goin' with me, for cryin' out loud. Tell him I'm havin' a nervous breakdown.
He already thinks you're out of your mind, Louise, that don't carry much weight with Darryl. Are you at work?
No, I'm callin' from the Playboy Mansion.
I'll call you right back.
Not this weekend, sweetie, she's runnin' away with me. Hi. What'd he say?
What time are you gonna pick me up?
You're kiddin'! Alright! I'll be there around two or three.
What kind of stuff do I bring?
I don't know. Warm stuff, I guess. It's the mountains. I guess it gets cold at night. I'm just gonna bring everything.
Okay. I will, too.
And steal Darryl's fishin' stuff.
I don't know how to fish, Louise.
Neither do I, Thelma, but Darryl does it, how hard can it be? I'll see you later. Be ready.
We don't need the lantern. The place has electricity.
I wanna take it anyway. Just in case.
In case of what?
In case there's some escaped psycho killer on the loose, who cuts the electricity off and tries to come in and kill us.
Oh yeah, sure, Thelma, that lantern will come in real handy. Maybe we could tow your car behind, in case he steals the spark plugs.
We'd have to. That thing barely makes it down the driveway.
Whose place is this again?
It's Bob's, the day manager's. He's gettin' a divorce, so his wife's gettin' this place, so he's just lettin' all his friends use it till he has to turn over the keys.
I've never had the chance to go out of town without Darryl.
How come he let you go?
'Cause I didn't ask him.
Aw, shit, Thelma, he's gonna kill you.
Well, he has never let me go. He never lets me do one goddamn thing that's any fun. All he wants me to do is hang around the house the whole time while he's out doing God only knows what.
How much longer is it gonna be? I'm hungry.
Another hour of so. We've got enough food for a month.
I'll never make it... Can't we stop just for a few minutes...
We've not gonna get to the cabin till after dark as it is, Thelma.
Then what difference does it make if we stop? Come on. I never get to do stuff like this.
I haven't seen a place like this since I left Texas.
Isn't this fun?
Thelma!
Tell me somethin'. Is this my vacation or isn't it? I mean, God, you're as bad as Darryl.
I just haven't seen you like this in a while. I'm used to seeing you more sedate.
Well, I've had it up to my ass with sedate! You said you and me was gonna get outta town and, for once, just really let our hair down. Well, darlin,' look out 'cause my hair is comin' down!
Alright... I changed my mind. I'll have a margarita with and a shot of Cuervo on the side, please.
Yeah!
Jeez, Louise, that wasn't very nice.
Can't you tell when somebody's hittin' on you?
So what if he was? It's all your years of waitin' tables has made you jaded, that's all.
Maybe.
Well, just relax, will ya. You're makin' me nervous.
So, Jimmy still hasn't called yet?
Givin' him a taste of his own medicine. Asshole.
I'm sorry, Louise. I know you're all upset. It's just I'm so excited to be out of the house, I guess. I wonder if Darryl's home yet.
I wonder if Jimmy's gotten back.
Why don't you tell him to just to get lost once and for all?
Why don't you ditch that loser husband of yours?
Exactly.
In the meantime, you said we were gonna have some fun. So let's have some!
Thelma, I'm gonna hit the little girls' room, and then we gotta hit the road.
Ready when you are.
Oh my God.
Get the car.
Jesus Christ! Louise, you shot him.
Get the car!
Shit! I... I, which way?
West. Left.
Louise. Where are we going?
I don't know, Thelma! I don't know! Just shut up a minute so I can think.
Shouldn't we go to the cops? I mean, I think we should tell the police.
Tell them what?! What, Thelma? What do you think we should tell them?
I don't know. Just tell 'em what happened.
Which part?
All of it. That he tried to rape me.
Only about a hundred people saw you cheek to goddamn cheek with him all night, Thelma! Who's gonna believe that?! We just don't live in that kind of world. Pull over!
We gotta be inconspicuous. Do you know what that means?
Yes.
It means you don't talk to anybody. You don't draw attention to yourself in any way. Do you understand that?
We have to think this through. We have to be smart. Now is not the time to panic. If we panic now, we're done for. Nobody saw it. Nobody knows it was us. We're still okay. Now all we have to do is just figure out our next move.
Our next move? I'll say one thing, Louise. This is some vacation. I sure am having a good time. This is real fun.
If you weren't so concerned with having a good time, we wouldn't be here right now.
Just what is that supposed to mean?
It means shut up, Thelma.
So this is all my fault, is it.
We're gonna go to the next town and stop. We'll get a motel room. I can rest for a while and then figure out how to get some money. We're gonna need money. Thelma. How much money do you have with you?
What? Oh, I don't know. Let me look.
I'm cash poor.
Hmmm. We gotta get some money.
Oh, I don't know. I'm just nervous. I gotta figure out what to do.
Well, when you figure it out, wake me up.
Just what the hell is wrong with you?
What do you mean?
Why are you actin' like this?
Actin' like what?! How am I supposed to act? 'Scuse me for not knowing what to do after you blow somebody's head off!
You could help me try and figure it out! I gotta figure out what to do, and you could try and help me.
I suggested we go to the police, but you didn't like that; so, frankly, Louise, I'm all out of ideas.
Well, what's the big rush, Thelma? If we just give 'em some time, they'll come to us...! Oh Christ. I'm just not ready to go to jail yet. Why don't you go out to the pool or something and I'll figure it out...
Give me the keys.
You're not touchin' that car.
My stuff's in the trunk! God! You care more about that car than you do about most people.
Most people just cause me trouble, but that car always gets me out of it.
Did you finish thinking?
I think better when I drive.
Don't get mad, Louise, but where are we going?
Oklahoma City. Jimmy's gonna wire me some money, and then...
You talked to him?! Is he mad? Did you tell him?
No, I didn't tell him. And that's something we gotta get straight. Darryl's been callin', mad as a hornet, makin' all kinds of noise. When you talk to him, you cannot say anything about this. You gotta make sure everything sounds normal.
I called the asshole at 4:00 in the morning and he wasn't even home. I don't know what he's got to be mad about. I'm the one who should be mad.
I've been tellin' you that for the last ten years.
Do you think Darryl's having an affair?
I don't think Darryl is mature enough to conduct an affair.
But you think he fools around.
Thelma, I'm going to Mexico. I think I can make it in two and a half days, but I'm going to have to haul ass. Are you up to this? I mean, I have to know. This isn't a game. I'm in deep shit. I gotta know what you're gonna do.
I... I don't know. I don't know what you're askin' me.
Don't you fall apart on me. Goddamnit, Thelma. Every time we get in trouble, you go blank or plead insanity or some such shit, and this time... Not this time. Everything's changed now... Now you can do whatever you want, but I'm going to Mexico. I'm going. Are you coming with me?
Call him?
Call him. Don't tell him anything. Tell him you're having a wonderful time and you'll be home tomorrow night.
Will I be?
I don't know. I won't be.
Louise, this young man is on his way back to school and needs a ride, and I thought since...
It's probably not a good idea.
Louise.
I wish we could've brought him with us.
What did Darryl say?
He said "Okay, Thelma. I just wanted to know you were alright. I hope you're havin' a good time. You sure deserve one after puttin' up with me all the time. I love you, honey."
I just don't see what it would hurt just to give somebody a ride. Did you see his butt? Darryl doesn't have a cute butt. You could park a car in the shadow of his ass.
I'm sorry. I'm just not in the mood for company right now. Here. Take this map. I need you to find all the secondary roads to Mexico from Oklahoma City. I think we should stay off the interstates. We're too conspicuous.
Well, it looks like we can get on this road 81 that heads down towards Dallas, then cut over to...
I don't want to go that way. Find a way that we don't have to go through Texas.
Wait. What? You want to go to Mexico from Oklahoma and you don't want to go through Texas?
You know how I feel about Texas... We're not going that way.
I know, Louise, but we're running for our lives! Don't you think you could make an exception just this once?! I mean, look at the map. The only thing between Oklahoma and Mexico is Texas!
Thelma! I'm not gonna talk about this! Now find another way or give me the goddamn map and I will! You understand?
No, Louise. How come you never said what happened?
He's got a lot to be proud of.
Louise and Darryl don't get along.
That's puttin' it mildly.
She thinks he's a pig.
He's a real piece o' work. I wish you could meet him.
Yup. That's him goin'. I love to watch him go.
Thelma kinda took to him.
I don't care what you say about him. The boy has got it bad.
He's always got it bad as long as I'm running in the other direction. Don't be fooled, he's no different than any other guy. He knows how to chase and that's it. Once he's caught you, he don't know what to do. So he runs away.
I heard that.
So what are you gonna tell him?
Nothing. I'm not gonna tell him a thing. The least I can do is not make him an accessory any more than he already is.
You are so sweet to that guy, you really are. Imagine not wanting to drag him into this. He is a lucky man.
I didn't ask him to come! It's like I said, Thelma, he just loves the chase.
Well boy, he's got his work cut out for him now, don't he?
Put a lid on it, Thelma! It's hard enough as it is. Just let me get this part over with. Now stay here and guard the money. If there's any problem I'm in room 115.
I won't wait up.
How do I look?
You're a vision, Louise, a goddamn vision of loveliness, you always are.
Have another drink, Thelma.
What happened to your hair?
Nothing. It got messed up.
What's wrong with you?
Nothing. Why? Do I seem different?
Yes, now that you mention it. You seem crazy. Like you're on drugs.
Well, I'm not on drugs. But I might be crazy.
I don't think I wanna hear what you're gonna tell me.
Oh, Thelma. Oh, no.
I mean I finally understand what all the fuss is about. This is just a whole 'nother ball game!
Thelma, please get a hold of yourself. You're making a spectacle.
You know, Louise, you're supposed to be my best friend. You could at least be a little bit happy for me. You could at least pretend to be slightly happy that for once in my life I have a sexual experience that isn't completely disgusting.
I'm sorry. I am happy. I'm very happy for you. I'm glad you had a good time. It's about time. Where is he now?
Taking a shower.
You left that guy alone in the room?
Eightyeight dollars ain't gonna make a dent, baby girl.
Don't worry about it. You want anything?
No.
Drive! Drive away!
What happened?
I'm sorry. Well, we need the money. Now we have it.
Oh shit, Thelma!! Shit! Shit! Shit!
Now you get a grip, Louise! Just drive us to Goddamn Mexico, will ya!
Okay. Shit, Thelma! What'd you do? I mean, what did you say?
Well, I just...
Holy shit.
Lemme see the map.
For the first time in my life, I wish this car wasn't green.
Are you sure we should be driving like this? In broad daylight and everything?
No we shouldn't, but I want to put some distance between us and the scene of our last Goddamn crime!
Oooooweee!! You shoulda seen me! Like I'd been doin' it all my life! Nobody would ever believe it.
You think you've found your calling?
Maybe. Maybe. The call of the wild!
You're disturbed.
Yes! I believe I am!
So what's the plan, Thelma? You just gonna stay drunk?
Try to.
Litterbug.
Ugh!! Why do they have to do that?
They think we like it. Maybe they think it turns us on.
Thelma.
Yeah.
I want you to call Darryl.
What for?
To find out if he knows anything. If you think he does, you gotta hang up because it means the police have told him and the phone is probably tapped.
Jeez, Louise, tapped the phone? You think so?
Oh, come on! Murder one and armed robbery, Thelma!
Murder one! God, Louise, can't we even say it was selfdefense?
But it wasn't! We got away! We were walkin' away!
They don't know that! It was just you and me there. I'll say he raped me and you had to shoot him! I mean, it's almost the truth!
It won't work.
Why not?!
No physical evidence. We can't prove he did it. We probably can't even prove he touched you by now.
Besides, what do we say about the robbery? No excuse for that. No such thing as justifiable robbery.
Alright, Louise!
Fill her up. There's a phone right over there.
Let's get it over with.
That J.D. kid is a little shit.
What.
How'd they find out we're going to Mexico, Thelma, how they know that?
I... I...
You told that thievin' little shit where we were goin'?!
I just told him if he ever gets to Mexico to look us up. I asked him not to tell. I didn't think he would tell anybody.
Why not?! What's he got to lose? Other than my life's savings, that is. Shit!
Just stop talkin' to people, Thelma! Stop bein' so open! We're fugitives now. Let's behave that way!
You're right.
Louise? Where are we?
Just past Boise City.
Idaho?
Oklahoma, Thelma. We're crossing into New Mexico.
I always wanted to see New Mexico.
Now what?
Now what what?
Whaddo we do?
Oh, I don't know, Thelma. I guess maybe we could turn ourselves in and spend our lives trading cigarettes for mascara so we can look nice when our families come to visit us on Saturdays. Maybe we could have children with the prison guards.
I'm not suggestin' that! I'm not goin' back. No matter what happens. So don't worry about me.
Can I ask you kind of a weird question?
Yeah.
Of all the things in the world that scare you, what's the worst thing that scares you the most?
You mean now or before?
Before.
I guess I always thought the worst thing that could happen would be to end up old and alone in some crummy apartment with one of those little dogs.
What little dogs?
You know those little dogs you see people with?
Like a Chihuahua?
Those, too, but you know those little hairy ones? Those flatfaced little fuckers with those ugly goddamned teeth?
Oh yeah. You mean Peekapoos.
Yeah. Those. That always put the fear of God in me. What about you?
Well, to be honest, the idea of getting old with Darryl was kinda startin' to get to me.
I can see that.
I mean, look how different he looks just since high school. It's bad enough I have to get old, but doin' it with Darryl around is only gonna make it worse. I mean, I don't think he's gonna be very nice about it.
Well, now, maybe you won't have to.
Always lookin' on the bright side, aren't ya?
This is so beautiful.
Gosh. It sure is.
I always wanted to travel. I just never got the opportunity.
Well, you got it now.
Look! Look who it is, Thelma. I'll be darned. What's he doin' way out here.
Just ignore him.
Oh, Christ. I hate this guy.
We should have just ignored him.
What?
Nothing. It's not funny.
What? What's not funny, Thelma!
What?!
Harlan.
What?! What about him?!
Just the look on his face when you... ... it's not funny.
Now, Thelma, that is not...
Boy, he wasn't expectin' that!
Thelma!
Suck my dick... Boom!!
I don't want to talk about it! Thelma, I'm not kidding! Don't you even...
... in Texas... didn't it? That's what happened... Oh my God.
I'm warning you, Thelma. You better drop it right now! I don't want to talk about it!
Okay, Louise... It's okay.
What do we do? What do you want to do?!
I don't know! Shit! Let's just play it by ear. He may not know. He may just give me a ticket.
Please, God, please don't let us get caught. Please, please, please...
I told you to slow down. Hell, Officer, I told her to slow down.
About how fast was I going?
I am really sorry about this.
I swear, before yesterday, neither one of us would have ever pulled a stunt like this. But if you ever met my husband, you'd know why I just can... You wanna step out of the car, please? You wanna put your hands on your head, please? Louise, shoot the radio.
What?
Shoot the radio!
Sorry!
Sorry!
Ready?
Hit it.
I know it's crazy, Louise, but I just feel like I've got a knack for this shit.
I believe you.
Louise... are we still going to Mexico?
Yes.
Well, I figure if you take a state policeman, shoot up his car, take his gun and lock him in the trunk, it's best to just get on out of the state if you can.
Just asking.
I don't want to see any more beef jerky. I mean the next beef jerky you hand me is going out the window. It's drivin' me crazy. The whole car smells like it.
It's good. It's what the pioneers ate.
I don't care what the damn pioneers ate. You just keep that shit away from me, now I mean it.
And I don't want any more Wild Turkey, either. It's burning a hole in my stomach.
Okay, okay... I've got some tequila. You want some tequila?
You do?
Yeah, you want it?
Yeah.
Shit. I'm gettin' tired.
Are you alright?
I think I've really fucked up. I think I've got us in a situation where we could both get killed. Why didn't we just go straight to the police.
You know why. You already said.
What'd I say again?
Nobody would believe us. We'd still get in trouble. We'd still have our lives ruined. And you know what else?
What?
That guy was hurtin' me. And if you hadn't come out when you did, he'd a hurt me a lot worse. And probably nothin' woulda happened to him. 'Cause everybody did see me dancin' with him all night. And they woulda made out like I asked for it. And my life woulda been ruined a whole lot worse than it is now. At least now I'm havin' fun. And I'm not sorry the son of a bitch is dead. I'm only sorry that it was you that did it and not me. And if I haven't, I wanna take this time to thank you, Louise. Thank you for savin' my ass.
I said all that?
No, Louise, you said the first part. I said all the rest.
Whatever.
Louise?
Yes, Thelma?
You're not gonna give up on me, are ya?
What do you mean?
You're not gonna make some deal with that guy, are you? I mean, I just wanna know.
No, Thelma. I'm not gonna make any deals.
I can understand if you're thinkin' about it. I mean, in a way, you've got something to go back for. I mean Jimmy and everything.
Thelma, that is not an option.
But I don't know... something's crossed over in me and I can't go back. I mean, I just couldn't live...
I know. I know what you mean. I don't wanna end up on the damn Geraldo Show.
He said they're charging us with murder.
Eeuww.
And we have to decide whether we want to come out of this dead or alive.
Gosh, didn't he say anything positive at all?
Louise, do you think we should change cars, get another car?
Sure... You know how to hotwire a car?
No.
Well, let me know when you figure it out.
You awake?
You could call it that. My eyes are open.
Me too. I feel awake.
Good.
Wide awake. I don't remember ever feelin' this awake. Everything looks different. You know what I mean. I know you know what I mean. Everything looks new. Do you feel like that? Like you've got something to look forward to?
We'll be drinkin' margaritas by the sea, Mamasita.
We can change our names.
We can live in a hacienda.
I wanna get a job. I wanna work at Club Med.
Yes! Yes! Now what kind of deal do you think that cop can come up with to beat that?
It'd have to be pretty good.
It would have to be pretty damn good.
We should head a little further in. There's not that many roads in this state. I want to try to hit Mexico somewhere not so close to New Mexico. They probably wanna kill us in New Mexico.
You're drivin'.
Oh my God! Louise! Look! Look! See if that's him!
It's him. He's got California plates. It's the same guy.
Pass him!
I mean really! That business with your tongue. What is that? That's disgusting!
And, oh my God, that other thing, that pointing to your lap? What's that supposed to mean exactly? Does that mean pull over, I want to show you what a big fat slob I am or...
Does that mean suck my dick?
Hey. Where'd you learn to shoot like that?
Texas... You were right about what happened to me there.
You know what's happened, don't you?
What?
We've gone insane.
Yup.
I guess we shoulda made some kinda plan for what to do if we get caught.
Yeah, right. We're not gonna get caught.
How far are we from Mexico?
About two hundred and fifty miles.
How long do you think that'll take?
Shit!
Did you see that guy?! He was right in the middle of the road!
Shit!
What?!
What?! What d'you think?!
Oh.
We probably shoulda filled up the car before we blew up that truck.
Why?
They'll probably catch us when we have to stop for gas!
I know this whole thing was my fault. I know it is.
There's one thing you oughta understand by now, Thelma, it's not your fault.
Louise... no matter what happens, I'm glad I came with you.
You're crazy.
You're a good friend.
You too, sweetie, the best.
I guess I went a little crazy, huh?
No... You've always been crazy. This is just the first chance you've had to really express yourself.
I guess everything from here on in is going to be pretty shitty.
Unbearable, I'd imagine.
I guess everything we've got to lose is already gone anyway.
How do you stay so positive?
Louise!
What?!
What in the hell is that up there?
Where?!
Way up ahead!
What in the hell is it?!
It's the Goddamn Grand Canyon!
Isn't it beautiful?!!
It's grand!
God! It looks like the Army!
All this for us?
Now what?
We're not giving up, Thelma.
Then let's not get caught.
What are you talkin' about?
Go.
Go?
You're a good friend.
You, too, sweetie, the best.
Hello, Officer. Is there a problem?
You wanna let me see your license, please?
You wanna take it out of your wallet, please?
Oh yeah.
Is this your car?
Yes.
You wanna come with me, please? Walk around and get in the car, please.
In the back?
Front.
Am I in trouble?
As far as I'm concerned, yes, ma'am, you are.
Louise! Where are you? Are you alright? Honey...
Hi. I'm okay. How are you? Long time no see.
Louise, honey... Where are you? You sound funny.
I am funny. I'm real funny.
Are you in town? This sounds long distance.
No, I'm out of town. I'm in... I'm in real deep shit, Jimmy. Deep shit Arkansas.
Louise, just tell me what the hell is going on here! I come back, nobody knows where you are. Is Thelma with you? Darryl's been callin' here every halfhour sayin' he's gonna kill you both when you get back, he's goin' nuts. I don't envy her if she is.
Where'd y'all go?
Fishing. Look, Jimmy... I need you to help me. This is serious. I'm in trouble and I need you to help me. Can you do that?
I have a savings account with about sixtyseven hundred dollars in it. Now I know you won't be able to get it out, but I'm good for it. I need that money. Can you wire me the sixtyseven hundred dollars and I'll pay you back? Please, I'm desperate.
What the fuck is going on?
Something real bad has happened and I can't tell you what, just that it's bad and I did it and I can't undo it. Can you help me?
Of course. Of course! Where? Can't I bring it to you? For God's sake, baby, please, just tell me what's happened, what could possibly be so bad?
Do you love me?
Christ, sure... yes!
Wire it to the Western Union in Oklahoma City,
You're in Oklahoma?!
Not yet.
Louise, let me call you back after I wire it, so you'll know which office to go to.
Can't it go to any office?
No, for that much money I have to tell them exactly which office. I know, I've had to have money wired to me on the road. And there has to be a code word or they won't give it to you. I'll have to tell you the code.
Tell me now.
Call me back.
Okay. I'll call you back. In an hour. Don't tell Darryl.
I know. Call me back. Louise, I love you, okay?
Okay.
Is that how you answer the phone?
I got it. I was afraid I'd missed you. I almost couldn't get a check cashed. It's Saturday.
Who did it?
Friend of mine, owns a club. Dickie Randall. You'd know him if you saw him. His brother was in your class. Terry.
You didn't say what it was for, did you?
No, honey. I told him I was buyin' a car. What is it for?
Good. That was good. Where do I go?
It's a place called Shaw's Siesta Motel. The address is 1921 North East 23. It's under your name.
And what's the mysterious code word?
Peaches.
What?
That's the code word. I miss you, peaches.
Hey, peaches.
Oh my God! Jimmy! You... Oh my God! What are you doin' here?
Can we get another room? Just put it on my credit card.
Hello...
Who is it?
It's me.
Now, my little coconut, what seems to be the trouble here? Tell Daddy everything.
Jimmy, my daddy's still alive and it kind of gives me the creeps when you do that...
Okay, okay, just tell me what's the trouble.
Okay, peaches, okay. But can I ask you one thing?
Maybe.
Does it have something to do with another guy? Are you in love with him?
It's nothin' like that.
Then what?! What, goddamnit, Louise! Where the fuck are you going? Are you just leaving for fucking ever? What, did you fuckin' murder somebody or what?!
Stop it! Stop it, Jimmy, or I'll leave right now. I'm not kiddin'!
Alright, alright. I'm sorry.
Can I just ask you one other thing?
Maybe.
Will you at least see how it fits?
Jimmy... it's beautiful!
You didn't see that one comin', did ya?
So whaddya think. I mean... I could... uh... get a job. Of some kind. I mean you've been tellin' me that for years, right?
Why now, Jimmy?
'Cause, Louise. I don't want to lose you. And for some reason I get the feelin' you're about to split. Permanently.
I'm the one... I never made it work. I just... It's not that I don't love you. It's not that. I just never thought I'd be thirtysix years old and I never thought... I don't know what I thought. What do you want, darlin'. What do you want me to do.
I don't know. It doesn't even matter anymore. I just want you to be happy... It's not that I don't love you either. But Jimmy, your timing couldn't be worse.
Are you just doin' this to punish me?
Believe me, the last thing I want is for you to get punished.
Don't worry darlin'. I'll say I never found you. I'll say anything you want. We'll find a way to get you out of this, whatever it is.
Damn, Jimmy, did you take a pill that makes you say all the right stuff?
I'm choking on it.
Jimmy! Hello, stranger. What in the world are you doin' here?
Ask me no questions, I'll tell you no lies.
Good answer. Same goes double for me.
Who's your friend?
Well, come on, gal, I got you a room. You can go on in and take a nice cold shower.
Don't mind me, Jimmy, I'm just a wild woman.
I always knew that.
A regular outlaw.
So J.D., what are you studying in school?
Human nature. I'm majoring in behavioral science.
So how come you don't have any kids?
Darryl, that's my husband, he says he's not ready. He's still too much of a kid himself. He prides himself on being infantile.
Did you get married real young?
Twentyfour isn't young. I'd already been goin' out with him ten years when we got married. I've never been with anybody but Darryl.
Well, if you don't mind me sayin' so, he sounds like a real asshole.
It's okay. He is an asshole. Most of the time I just let it slide.
This is J.D. He's a student. We're just givin' him a ride to... to here. Louise said we could bring him here and then he'd have to go. And that's what he's doin'. He's goin'. Aren't you, J.D.?
Yup. Thanks for the ride. You all take care.
Louise, is that you?
Thelma? It's me.
Well, I guess I'd better...
Wait...! Um, where ya going?
I don't know. Nowhere. What are you doin'?
I don't know. Nothin'. Took a shower.
That sounds nice.
Well, you wanna use the shower?
Oh. I... where's Louise?
She's off with Jimmy, that's her boyfriend.
That's lonely for you, I guess. I always think of motel rooms as lonely.
I am the great and powerful Oz...
J.D.! Just tell me. I know you're not some schoolboy. Now come on, nobody ever tells me shit.
I'm just some guy. A guy whose parole officer is probably having a shit fit right about now.
What?! Parole officer? You mean you're a criminal?
Well, not anymore, Thelma, except for bustin' parole, I haven't done one wrong thing.
What did ya do?
I'm a robber.
You're a bank robber?
Nope. I've never robbed a bank.
What?
Well, I robbed a gas station once, and I robbed a couple of liquor stores, and some convenience stores. And that's it.
How?
Well, I was just down on my luck and it seemed like somethin' I was good at so I...
No, I mean how would you do it? Do you just sneak in real fast or hide out till the store closes or what?
Naw, honey, that would be burglary. I never got arrested for burglary. Burglary's for chicken shits. If you're gonna rob someone, ya just have to go right on up to 'em and do it. Just take the money. That's robbery. That's a whole 'nother deal.
Tell me.
Well, first you pick your place, see, then I'd just sit back and watch it for awhile. Ya gotta wait for just the right moment, which is something you know instinctively, that can't be taught. Then I'd waltz on in...
I've always believed if done right, armed robbery doesn't have to be a totally unpleasant experience.
God. You're a real live outlaw!
I may be the outlaw, but you're the one stealin' my heart.
And smooth, boy, you are smooth.
You're kinda the best thing that's happened to me in a long time.
You're a little angle, you are.
Your name's Harlan? I got an uncle named Harlan!
You do? Is he a funny uncle? 'Cause if he is, then he and I got somethin' in common.
Oh shit.
What's wrong?
Stop.
What for?
I'm spinning.
I guess I'm startin' to feel a little better.
Yeah, you're startin' to feel pretty good to me, too.
Don't. I'm married. I don't feel good. I've been sick.
It's okay. I'm married, too.
You're beautiful. It's okay. I won't hurt you. It's okay.
Stop it! Goddamnit, I mean it! Louise is gonna wonder where I am. Let go!
Louise is alright.
Don't hurt me. Harlan. Please.
Shut up.
What kind of gun was it?
A .38.
Right. Where are they?
We're going to leave someone here at the house in the event that she calls in. Someone will be here until we find them.
The important thing is not to let on that you know anything. We want to try and find out where they are. Now I don't want to get too personal, but do you have a good relationship with your wife? Are you close with her?
Good God.
My Lord.
Now, for one thing, you violated your parole two days out. And you know Judge Hainey. He hates this sort of thing. Once he gets wind of this, he's gonna blow sky high. And then when he finds out that you're a possible accessory to murder and armed robbery, well, I think we can safely place your ass back in the slammer for at least the remaining eight, don't you?
Oh, definitely.
It's just not working like this. We gotta do something. It'd be one thing if these girls were hardened criminals, but Jesus, Hal, this is makin' us look bad. I don't know... maybe they're not movin'. Maybe that little creep lied.
He's got nothin' to gain by lyin'. Nothin' at all. He already got all their money. I just don't know what we're dealin' with here. Anyway, it went out again last night on Nationwide Teletype. Let's just wait it out a little longer. She said she was gonna call back. Let's just sit tight.
We don't have a whole lotta choice, do we? I can't figure out if they're real smart or just really, really lucky.
It don't matter. Brains will only get you so far and luck always runs out.
Hey! Don't let them shoot those girls. This is too much. They got guns pointed at 'em!
The women are armed, Hal. This is standard. Now you stay calm here. These boys know what they're doin'.
I'm sorry to bother you, I know you're real busy right now, but how many times, Max? How many times has that woman gotta be fucked over? You could lift one finger and save her ass and you won't even do that?
Get a hold of yourself! You are way out of your jurisdiction, now come on! Calm down! Don't make me sorry I let you come!
I swear to God, she wouldn't tell me one thing! Christ! You oughta try to find that kid that was with 'em.
Tell us about him.
Just some young guy. Around twenty years old. Dark hair.
This is serious, son. A man is dead.
I know! I'd tell you if I knew! Goddamn! I know something happened, or she wouldn't have left. I'm trying to remember everything! Find that fucking kid. He probably knows something.
Is this the guy you saw them with?
It's him.
Armed robber.
Oh, great.
All we know is there were two women in a green TBird convertible that turned left out of the parking lot, going real fast. We're trying to get a make on the car, but nothin' yet. So far, we got nothin'.
Well, you'd best get something. Even if they didn't do it, it times out that they most likely witnessed it. I want somebody to at least talk to 'em. Put out an APB with a description and see what we get back.
Alright.
Is there any reason to believe they've left the state?
That's certainly possible.
Why don't we go ahead and let the bureau in on this.
I have no problem with that.
Somebody's butt is gonna barbque.
I've been better.
You girls are in some hot water.
Yes, sir. I know.
We're both fine.
Good. You wanna tell me what happened?
Sure. Maybe over coffee sometime. I'll buy.
Hey.
How are things goin' out there?
Weird. Got some kind of snowball effect goin' here or somethin'.
You're still with us though. You're somewhere on the face of the earth?
Well, we're not in the middle of nowhere, but we can see it from here.
You're gettin' in deeper every moment you're gone.
Would you believe me if I told you this whole thing is an accident?
I do believe you. That's what I want everybody to believe. Trouble is, it doesn't look like an accident and you're not here to tell me about it... I need you to help me here.
No!
You want to come on in?
You know, certain words and phrases just keep floating through my mind, things like incarceration, cavity search, life imprisonment, death by electrocution, that sort of thing. So, come out alive? I don't know. Let us think about that.
Louise, I'll do anything. I know what's makin' you run. I know what happened to you in Texas.
Could you identify 'em, if ya saw 'em again?
Hal, I've told you about twenty times, yes, I could identify 'em, but neither one of them was the type to pull something like this.
Well, you're not exactly an expert witness, but what makes you so sure?
If waitin' tables in a bar don't make you an expert on human nature, then nothin' will, and I could've told you that Harlan Puckett would end up buyin' it in a parkin' lot. I'm just surprised it didn't happen before now.
Who do you think did it?
Has anybody asked his wife? She's the one I hope did it.
Lena, just cut the bullshit, will ya? Do have any ideas or don't ya? I been standin' in this stupid parkin' lot all goddamn night, and I still got to go file a report before I can go home in time to get back up again!
Well, if I had to guess, I'd say it was some ol' gal, some ol' gal's husband. But it wasn't either one of those two. The tall one, the redhead, she left me a huge tip.
You didn't happen to notice what kind of car they were driving?
It's a nightclub, not a drivein, Hal. I don't follow the customers to the parking lot.
Alright, Lena. Go on home. We might have to call you in for some more questioning.
Who's the nut?
That's Thelma Dickinson's husband.
Aw, God.
Alright! She did good! Didn't she?
Well, son, she's doin' a damn sight better 'n you right now.
We spoke with a gentlemen today who says he personally delivered very close to that same amount to a Miss Louise Sawyer. Do you know her too?
Umm, yes. She was driving.
He said he took it to a motel in Oklahoma City. He also says that at that time he met a man. He identified you through a series of mug shots. He also told us that you and Mrs. Dickinson seemed "close." Is that true?
You might say we had a meeting of the minds, yes.
Did either of them ever indicate that they might be running from the Law?
Now that you mention it, they might have been a little bit jumpy.
You know what? You're starting to irritate me.
How do you know I took it? How do you know they didn't just give it to me?
There's two girls out there that had a chance, they had a chance...! And you blew it for 'em. Now they've gotten in some serious trouble, some very serious trouble and for at least part of it, I'm gonna hold you personally responsible for anything that happens to them. I've got no feelin' for you. But I may be the only person in the world who gives a rat's ass what happens to them and you're either gonna tell me every damn thing you know, so there's a small chance I can actually do them some good, or I'm gonna be all over you like a fly on shit for the rest of your natural life. Your misery is gonna be my goddamn mission in life. That's a sincere promise.
Honey?
Yes, baby?
Do you think you could ever shoot someone?
What?
Do you think you could ever think of a set of circumstances that would just cause you to haul off and shoot someone?
I could shoot your cousin Eddie.
Why?
Because he's an inconsiderate asshole.
I'm asking you seriously, Sarah, a stranger?
I don't know, honey. I guess it would depend.
On what?
Well, maybe if they were trying to hurt you or one of the kids. I'm sure I could shoot someone if they tried to hurt one of the children.
Yeah, I could too. But... I don't know why I'm even asking you this. It's just... we can't place anybody at the scene but these two gals that everybody swears is sweet as pie. I don't know. I keep hearing words  impossible  inconceivable. If just one person would say...
Honey. Nothing's impossible. You just don't shoot someone like that for no reason. Maybe he was askin' for it. Anyway, somebody's husband probably got ol' Harlan.
That's what everybody says. Only problem is nobody's husband was unaccounted for that night... Could you shoot Eddie in the face? At point blank range?
In the leg.
I gotta go to Little Rock.
Damnit, Thelma, don't holler like that! Haven't I told you I can't stand it when you holler in the morning.
I'm sorry, Doll, I just didn't want you to be late.
Hon.
What.
Have a good day at work today.
Uhhuh.
Hon?
What?!
You want anything special for dinner?
No, Thelma, I don't give a shit what we have for dinner. I may not even make it home for dinner. You know how Fridays are.
Funny how so many people wanna buy carpet on a Friday night. You'd almost think they's want to forget about it for the weekend.
Well then, it's a good thing you're not regional manager and I am.
'Bye, honey. I won't wait up.
See ya.
... only for one day and we'll be back tomorrow night.
No you won't. You'll be back today. Now! You get your ass back here, Thelma, now, Goddamnit. Thelma, do you understand me?
Darryl.
What?
Go fuck yourself.
If you're deaf, read my lips...I don't need a psycho following me today.
[Beat] I'm not deaf.
Good.
In case you hadn't figured, it's Christmas Eve. You're never gonna get a cab here.
[Beat] Thanks.
All right. [Beat] You got somewhere you need to go, Mister?
I'm not sure.
Let me ask you that again. This time, look around and consider your options.
I'm not sure.
You don't have anywhere to stay?
I don't think so.
Well, where are you from?
I'm not sure. [Beat] I don't really know.
Of course you don't know.
Why "of course"?
Because in my life, it wouldn't make sense for me to pick up some normal guy with a place where he's from and a place where he's going to. It'd be too simple. I probably wouldn't know how to handle a situation like that.
Well, you definitely didn't pick normal or simple this time either.
Well, how'd you get here?
[Beat] I was dropped off.
Do you have a motel or something? Money?
No.
Well, don't you somewhere? Stuff? Belongings?
No. [Beat] Not around here.
Great. That was our last option. What am I going to do with you?
Nothing. [Getting up] Thanks for bringing me this far.
Where are you going? You'll freeze out there. You don't even have a coat.
I'll manage.
No, you won't. You'll die of cold out there and then I'll have to feel guilty. And I've already got more guilt than I know what to do with. [Beat] Do you want something to drink?
No, I'm ok.
[Beat] Yeah, I'm fine.
You know what? It's Christmas Eve. And you look clean  I mean, you're normallooking. [Resolutely, for her own benefit] It's Christmas Eve, and I have a couch.
What's this?
The best I could do with what was in your fridge.
I only lit it because it was so cold in here. I'm sorry if...
No, it's fine. [Beat, swallow] Thanks.
You want a drink?
Sure.
This is pretty good. Considering...
Thanks.
So you're a waitress, right? I mean...from the uniform you were wearing.
Yup. That's me.
You like it?
[Beat] I do it.
Have you always been a waitress?
[Beat] Why'd you stop?
Shit happens, and your life changes. 'Bout the best explanation of a lot of things that happen. [Beat] So how come you don't know where you're coming from?
I don't know, but I think part of it's...
Well, good for you.
[Beat] Why?
[Beat] Real is overrated.
You don't think that's crazy?
Maybe. [Beat] Maybe not.
This is a great song.
You remember it?
But hey, who can forget those words? The man just wants simple and good things for his woman  that she be warm and happy. How hard can that be to remember?
May be easy to remember, but not easy to get. Being warm, maybe  but, look, you don't even have a coat and I still have to chop wood to make a fire. [Beat] And, being happy...you tell me if that's simple.
They told me I joined the army when I was seventeen. That's when my father died and, before that, it was apparently just me and him since I was born 'cause my mom split.
So you never knew your mother?
I guess not. But, as of now, I never knew either.
I'm sorry.
Yeah. [Beat] How about you?
Never knew my father. I grew up with my mother. Actually, I grew up around my mother. She was great though. I mean, the way she was with her friends... She was this woman who had so much life in her, she had to find ways to kill some of it just to be like the rest of us. [Beat] She died young.
How?
She fucked herself up day after day and then, one day, she fell asleep with a burning cigarette. [Beat] I came home from work and she was gone.
I'm sorry.
Yeah, me too. [Softly] Every day for the last ten years.
That when you stopped being a nurse?
You ever been to jail?
No.
It's worse than war. It's worse than anywhere you've ever been.
I doubt it. [Beat] I don't think prison's so bad you don't want to remember it...
Hey, Mister, you need a ride?
Where are you going?
I'm going to Canada but I can let you ride with me up to the border.
Can you drive?
Sure.
Great, get in. We'll switch off in a bit.
That's Kingsley. Old bastard hears us, I'm sure. He just doesn't want to bother answering so he makes us think he can't talk. I know. I tried it on my mother for two months once before she fished out my tongue. Literally. [Beat] You're the cop killer, right?
Yeah, guess so. How'd you know?
TV. Helps numb [makes a "crazy gesture"] any active mind. [Sticking out a jittery hand] Rudy MacKenzie.
I tried to kill my wife.
Don't you go to jail for that?
I tried something like 30 times. There is, as STARKS rightly figures, no suitable response to that.
Yeah, well 30 times probably would make you seem crazy.
Or just plain stupid. You'd think by the twentieth time, I'd have found an alternative method. Maybe a more effective one, if you know what I mean.
What were you talking about the other day?
I wasn't talking about anything.
Yeah, you were. What you said about them taking me out to the woods...
I know you need one when it's really cold.
[Cutting in] MacKenzie, listen to me. Listen. I'm going to die.
Mortality's actually a great thing to be familiar with. It means you're sane on some level.
[Gravely] No, I mean in four days, I'm supposed to die.
[Beat] How do you know?
The Jacket.
Oh no, you're pretty young. Your body'll be able to handle a lot more of it than you think...
No. [Beat] I mean I found out while I was in it that my body's gonna be found in four days.
It's gonna be sticky.
Why?
'Cause Lorenson's got her claws in it now. When she started getting suspicious about me was when they stopped using it on me. Women!
So what am I supposed to do?
You could still always give Becker an itch. 'Course you might get killed when he goes to scratch it, but seems to me you're saying that's about to happen anyway. [Beat] Just be careful not to walk yourself right into something.
Geez, how's that for a fucking "thank you"?
Is it true?
MacKenzie, [beat] what if we are crazy?
[Shrugging] What if we are? There're crazier things than thinking up fictions for yourself. [Beat] Everyone does it, don't they? Even Becker. That roller coaster car pops more pills than all of Ward 3.
Becker does? Are you sure?
I've been here for 11 years. It's my neighborhood. 'Course I'm sure. He's as drugged up as the rest of us...I guess he has to be to put up with all this.
And if I didn't want to come?
I guess I'd ask you why.
Because I don't think I'm crazy.
You're not crazy.
You were convicted of the crime.
That conviction doesn't convince me of anything. Until I know that I did it, I'm not going to accept that I did.
You may never remember at all. [Beat] Your mind's grasp of reality and the real events that have happened to you has been damaged.
No. The real events that have happened to me have been fucked up. Not my mind.
Why, what would you do?
I could try to...make it stop.
No. I don't want it to.
So it's helping?
You should be careful. You could be killed if they found you out here.
Believe me, I know.
My God you look exactly like him.
I never knew my father. Did you?
Yeah, I did. [Beat] He was my most memorable patient.
Why?
At the end, he made me change my mind about a lot of things.
You thought my father was crazy?
What case?
I was working with a boy named Eugene.
How'd he get it?
[Beat] I don't know.
But Dr. Morgan said you were around when my father was...
I was. But I saw a lot of cuts and a lot of blows. I'm sorry I don't know more about your father's. [Sincerely] I didn't know about everything that went on here.
Well, do you think Dr. Becker would have any idea?
How do you know about Dr. Becker?
My dad wrote some things down before he died.
So maybe Dr. Becker would know. [Beat] But, as I'm sure you know, the statute of limitations has run out for charging the hospital with any liabilities.
Why would we do that?
It's important for you to know who your father was, isn't it?
[Beat] Yeah, it is.
Exactly.
Well... [beat] let me know how your search turns out.
[Beat] We will.
You'll die if you keep smoking those in your condition.
I'll die either way.
What do you mean?
You have no idea what's going on.
No, I do. That's what I'm saying to you.
Listen to me! You don't! The Jacket is my only chance in this place.
You don't understand.
Then help me understand. You know, you're not alone. A lot of Gulf Vets have begun to experience curious symptoms. What you have might well be a syndrome and, if so, it's not one we know enough about to be treating it this vigorously.
This has nothing to do with that.
I don't know. [Frustrated] Remember?
Come on. Tell me what you do know.
[Beat] I've seen a time that's not this time. And I'm only able to see it when I'm in the Jacket.
Well, what time is it?
2004.
Ok fine. Tell me about it. Tell me about the future. 2004. What does it look like?
It doesn't look all that different.
The future doesn't look different?
No. Not for people like me. [Beat] Not in the places I come from.
What about the world?
I didn't see that much of it  same as now. I only saw it as part of my own life.
[Beat] Like who? Like MacKenzie maybe?
Maybe.
Why don't you help me?
Because I don't have time.
Why not?
I'm about to die unless I do something to stop it.
And how do you know that?
Because of the future. I know what's going to happen.
William, that is just another facet of my delusions.
How do you know about Eugene?
You told me about him. I saw you and I think you thought I knew something about him. So you told me.
Some part of you suspects  even if you don't know for sure  that what I'm saying is true.
I don't know how you know about Eugene, but these ideas are part of your delusions.
NO! They're not my delusions! Look, just leave my business with Becker to me!
I know. I know it all. Save your strength. I already know everything you're going to say. [Beat] You're in the Jacket right now, aren't you?
How...how do you know?
You told me this was how it happened.
I did?
Yeah.
Who...who kills me?
You have nothing to fear, William.
You're going to be ok, William. We just need to get your fever down and we'll be able to hopefully stabilize you.
Who are you kidding, Doc? You or me?
Can I get some paper and something to write with.
What for?
I'm not gonna let that happen.
You still don't believe me, do you?
I do believe you...
No. Listen to me...the kid, Eugene...
William, I can't indulge these delusions, even when you're in this state.
Listen to me. That's all I ask.
He's having absence [pronounced "absance"] seizures when he stares off into space like he does. He has them so often that that's why he hasn't learned to speak properly.
Who told you this?
You did, in the future. You figured it out because a part of you already knows this. That's how it works. [Beat] I'm just telling you something you already know, even if you haven't realized it.
I don't know when it'll happen but soon I think, you'll shock the boy and it'll wake him up.
What are you talking about?
You'll figure it out and you'll do good by him.
You know how to get there?
Sure. It's an easy address. A little far out there, but easy enough.
Good.
Just a little, when we were looking up information about William's father. How did he help?
It's complicated, but [looking at Starks] in a way, your father let me know how I'd get through to him.
How?
He just said...that I'd shock Eugene and then things would change for him.
I don't understand.
I still don't either, even after all these years.
Because Becker resigned after the charges brought against him by State Patient Advocacy Groups.
I see you've done your homework. [Beat] Alpine Grove's undergone a lot of changes since then. At the time, we didn't have the...resources to help our patients the way we needed to. [Beat] Now, we do. And things are different.
Come on, mom. Don't fall asleep...
You two ok?
Our car won't start.
Your mom take anything before this happened?
Yeah, but I don't know what.
[Beat] What's your name?
Jackie.
But I like it I guess.
Hey, can you reach the gas pedal?
Yeah.
You're just gonna walk?
Yeah, I'll hitch a ride or something. [Beat] Let her throw it all up before she gets back behind the wheel.
What're those?
Dog tags. [Off her blank look] They've got your name and date of birth for identification.
What for?
[Beat] In case you get lost, or can't remember who you are.
I think I can remember what's on them.
William Starks. [Beat] Thanks.
What'd you do? Snoop all over the place? You had no right. You had no right to go through anything.
[Beat] I know it doesn't make sense. It doesn't even make sense to me.
If you don't get out of my house right now, I'll call the police.
Jackie, I'm William Starks. I can prove it.
What? Now you're gonna show me some kind of driver's license?
No, I don't have anything to show you. I'm here from a mental hospital.
Well, you belong in one.
Stop it! Stop it! JACKIE covers her ears and looks at him, pleading with her eyes. STARKS' eyes plead right back.
I'm sorry for upsetting you, [beat] but I'm not lying to you.
You can't be William Starks. He's dead.
[Beat] What?
William Starks is dead... [Beat] I've been to his grave.
[Beat] What?
His body was found New Year's Day, 19...1993. At Alpine...
I looked it up.
How?
I gave you my dog tags.
No, you didn't. They found William Starks' body dead in the snow.
How'd he die?
I don't know. But he did die. STARKS falters under the news. JACKIE looks around, through her now blurred eyes, like she might find some help in the apartment. She settles for the BOTTLE of VODKA on the table, lowers the iron fork and takes a long heavy drink, then laughs nervously as she looks up.
I know what this is...I picked you up when I was drunk and you probably thought I'm just fucked up enough to fall for this. But the thing is I know what I'm doing when I drink. I just usually don't care. Right now, I do though. And I want you out. Now.
It's December 25th, 1993 today.
No, it's not. [Beat] It's December 25th, 2004.
I'm telling you I don't care what time you think you're in. You're not William Starks. [Beat] I don't believe in many things, but I believe in death. And it doesn't give back what it takes. So whoever you are...I did a nice thing, you've made me regret it enough already, so please, just leave.
I'll leave. But look at me. Look at my face, Jackie. I'm not lying. I met you and your mother. I told you then that I'd lost my memory. [Beat] There was no one for miles around so I know you know there's no way I could have known that from a pair of dog tags you had lying around.
Please...
The Jacket. That's what they call it, right?
Yeah.
It was banned, you know... and it led to an investigation of Dr. Becker's mistreatment of some of his patients. That's when they found out how badly he was drugging his patients...
But no one knew until after...
After I...
[Beat] You bled to death.
What?
I don't know how you got the cut to your head, but you died bleeding from it.
Do you really believe me?
I don't know. [Beat] I thought I was crazy after you left that day. I died. I still think I could be crazy. But then I replayed that night in my head  the parts of it I could remember  and it was like...I don't care if I was, or am. I haven't felt that way in a room with someone my whole life. [Beat] And when you left, all I wanted was...
[Softly] I want to trust you. Should I trust you?
Yes.
Then we need to figure out what happened to you. It's the only thing we can do.
I know.
Alpine Grove still exists. I looked it up on the net. We should go there and see if there's still anyone around who might have known what happened to you.
If they don't take me out before then. [As an afterthought] What's the net?
I didn't kill Officer Harrison.
I know.
How? Did they figure it out after I died?
No. They never figured it out. I did. Most murderers don't stop to help a drunk woman and her little girl on the side of the road. Not without hurting them.
I don't believe a thing she just said.
Me neither. Who was the boy she was talking about, Eugene?
I have no idea.
You think Lorenson kills you?
Maybe. I don't know. Seems more likely Becker does, but at the very least she knows how I died.
Let's see if they have an address for Becker. I also want to figure out more about the kid you helped her with.
Why?
Because that's the part I believe is true. You probably did help her somehow with the boy and Eugene's name did come up over and over again on the abstracts I pulled.
How long do we have?
I don't know.
They told me Becker's in Shelbourne now. I looked him up and he was listed.
What about Captain Medley? He never told them what happened to you over there. His testimony...that coward wanted them to think you were crazy.
I know. It was perfect. [Beat] Erase my sanity and you erase anything I'll ever say.
Of course it makes me mad. It makes me more than mad. Just like remembering the face of the man who killed that officer and knowing nothing more about him. But what's it gonna do for me to find them now? I can't fix everything in three days.
You've got to get yourself out of that place. They're going to kill you if you don't.
I might not be able to.
It's not a prison, it's a hospital. There's got to be some way out of there and you've got to find it...
Me, too.
Here, drink this. I'll get the heat going.
You're sure?
Yeah. I called the number yesterday to make sure. Thomas Becker, retired M.D.
They're not here.
They're not.
[Beat, lost] No.
What? What are you thinking?
There're no cars on this street.
I don't know. Maybe that's because this whole thing is a dream. How can you have a street with no cars on it?
I don't know. But this isn't a dream. I'm real, and so is where we are.
Then why isn't there anyone around?
[Beat] I don't know.
Of course he will. [Beat] What day of the week is it?
It's Sunday.
They've got lives to be grateful for.
William, you're not making sense.
[Beat] They're at Church. And I bet that's where Becker is.
That's all you got from him? That bastard helped take your life away from you.
No, he didn't.
What? How can you say that? He's the one that put you in that goddamn medieval...Jacket. He's probably the one who killed you.
If everything hadn't happened the way it has, then I wouldn't be here right now, sitting in a car with you, touching your face.
Why are you saying that? [Beat] We don't have long, do we?
Where are we going?
To the hospital.
What's happening to me? Why am I getting so much weaker?
Because your body can only take so much of what they're putting you through.
Lorenson's the only one that could let me out of there. I need something to persuade her that I was there. Get me something to take to her.
Ok. Ssh. Rest.
What?
When we first met, when you were 7, where was the house you lived in with your mother? Do you remember your address?
112 Orchard Way. [Realizing, in a whisper] You're not coming back, are you?
You gotta stop thinking like that.
Then, where are you going?
Nowhere. [Beat] I just think I'm gonna be sick.
I've been ok.
Good. How's your mom?
Ok, I guess.
[Beat] You be good to yourself, Jackie.
Ok.
I think so.
You're bleeding pretty bad there.
It's ok. It's ok. Relax. It's just a cut. We can get it fixed. But we need to get you to the hospital now. How'd you get that?
I fell down. [Beat] But I'm alive.
How you doin'?
I'm doing fine.
Get your fucking hands off my daughter!
Mom, he just fixed our car.
Jackie, get in the car. NOW!
I'm sorry? Your face looks awfully familiar, I just can't quite place it...
Mom, this is the guy that drove us home that afternoon we were stuck on the highway. The guy you yelled at for no good reason...
Oh, yeah.
Jackie, go play in the snow.
Why?
Just do it.
I'm sorry I can't tell you more about your father's death, Mr. Starks. Our own medical examiners determined only that he died from a blunt trauma to the head but that was right around the time the Alpine Grove's staff changed and I'm afraid we didn't have the best record system before then.
His body was found on January 1, 1993, but do you know if that was long after he had died?
No, I don't. I'm sorry. I wish I knew more.
What about Dr. Thomas Becker or Dr. Loel Lorenson? There was also a Dr. Gries, I think.
Well, Dr. Lorenson is still here at the hospital. If she was here at the time your father was, then I'm sure she'd be of more help to you.
What about Dr. Becker and Mr. Gries?
Unfortunately, I'm not familiar with Dr. Becker and Dr. Gries passed away three, four years ago.
You look like you've lost some weight. Are you eating?
I am. One of the few things I remember doing is eating. So I guess I must be exercising it off in my dreams.
You done with your small talk?
Sure.
Good.
This is really happening, isn't it?
[Beat] What do you need me to do?
[Beat] Thank you.
I need to get this letter to someone.
I can't take you out of here in your condition...
And I can't stay here in my condition. I am going to die tonight. It's already been decided.
No, it hasn't.
Yes. [Beat] It has. Everything up 'till today is done. Everything starting with tomorrow is up for grabs.
We're late.
I wish they'd skip the formality of this annual review and just cut our budget. Our silence on the matter should be enough to appease the civic conscience without wasting an hour we don't have.
Maybe it's not such a waste.
It's the ticking of a box on a sheet of paper no one cares about.
They don't care about all the things we do right. [Beat] But they might ...they might care about what we're doing wrong. [Beat] That's what they should come here to look for.
What should they be looking for?
They should just be looking harder.
Where? [Beat] It's Becker isn't it? He's doing stuff, isn't he?
Later. I'll tell you about it later. We got a session to catch now.
Do I know you from somewhere?
You may have known my father, William Starks.
That's right! Goddamn, you're the spitting image. I didn't know he had a son.
He didn't either.
Did you know my father?
Oh yeah, sure. He killed a cop, right?
My father used to talk about you.
Oh yeah, what'd he say?
Look here, I don't like you getting in my face and saying this bullshit to me...
That's too bad.
I thought you said you never knew your father.
I didn't. [Beat] Did you have anything to do with his death?
I don't know what you're talking about, man. I swear. This is some weird shit you're telling me... and I don't know how come you're doing it.
He died because he bled to death from a blow to his head. Someone had to have given him it.
I never touched your father! I swear!
Well, your condition's pretty serious.
[Beat] So they say. [Off Becker's steady gaze] What?
I'm just looking at you. Does that make you uncomfortable?
Depends on what you're seeing.
You said you couldn't remember killing Officer Harrison. Correct?
[Beat] You don't believe me, do you?
It's not my job to believe you.
He's recovering on the third floor.
Are you kidding me? He's not psychotic!
Then how would you describe him, Beth? Merely rebellious?
I don't know better. All I know is that you left me in there.
In where?
[Uncertainly] In that thing...the Jacket.
We were forced to use restrains if that's what you're referring to.
That wasn't a fucking restraint.
Actually, that's exactly what our equipment is.
Relax.
Don't act like I don't know what's real. [Beat] I'm not the one that's crazy here.
[Pointedly] Of course you're not.
You're just suffering from delusions that are unfortunately part of your condition.
Don't give me that. I know what's real, goddamnit! You strapped me in something and stuck me in a drawer.
I didn't dream it. I may have been asleep but it wasn't a dream. BECKER sits down in a CHAIR, halfshrouded in the light.
I had a patient a few years ago. His name was Ted Casey...
I don't give a shit about your patient!
I wasn't pausing to see if you did. [Beat] But, incidentally, you should, because you're birds of a feather.
We are not birds of a feather.
Maybe not. [Beat] But I do think you're in a tree... woofing like a dog. And I'm just trying to help you the only way I can think of.
Long live the Organization for the Organized!
Sit down, Mr. Starks! Sit down, Mr. Starks!
Hello, William. I understand you've been asking for me almost every hour. I would've been here sooner but you gave our little state visitor quite a bit to talk to me about.
That's too bad.
It is. But when it comes down to it, you just have to patient with them. They'd rather have their vacation, too, so they just push dealing with our "practices" off to the New Year.
They make it hard for you to get away with your business, huh?
Temporarily.
And what's that?
My business?
Yes.
Getting away with things. Like whatever I may or may not have gotten away with Officer Harrison.
You killed him?
I'll say a prayer for you in Church today, Starks. Maybe the Gods can pick up where the medicine left off.
You sure you know where to find one?
I've managed to every Sunday of my life. [Beat] Some of us are God fearing men, Starks.
And what does that mean?
Means we believe in doing his work and fear what the world would be like if we didn't at least try to.
Becker, how do you sleep at night?
You in here. [Beat] Works like a drug.
Who are you?
I think you know. Your eyes say you do.
[Beat] You're his son?
No. I'm not his son. I'm him. [Beat] What? You look like you've seen a ghost. You can come here and touch me, old man. I'm the real thing.
How...how are you here?
You died, Starks. Years ago, in the hospital.
I know. [Beat] You killed me, didn't you?
No. I didn't. I swear I didn't. I probably helped push you to kill yourself, but I didn't do it.
I didn't kill myself. I died from a blow to the head. How'd it happen? I have to know.
I don't know how you died. The last time I put you in the Jacket was just after you told me you remembered killing that police officer...
I didn't say I remembered killing him. I just repeated some words to get myself back in there.
I know. [Beat] I knew that when you came out.
How?
Because...because you came out and said something you couldn't have possibly have known. You came back and repeated three names...
Of people like you. People I was just trying to help. They couldn't get worse so I thought, with medication, they might get...
Medication? What kind of meds do you chase with nights in a cadaver drawer?
It was part of the treatment I intended...I didn't know what the effects would be...
So, what, you guinea pig sick people to find out?
The three of you weren't regular patients. You were criminals that ended up at Alpine Grove.
No, we were patients.
How did you come to know their names?
You just told me. The last time I was with you was when I was in the Jacket. I'm in it right now, Dr. Becker.
I don't understand...
I'm in it as we speak. [Beat] You're haunting yourself right now. [Beat] I guess sometimes we indict ourselves if no one else does. You didn't make history like you wanted to, huh, Dr. Becker. It turned out different, didn't it?
I didn't put you in Alpine Grove.
No. [Beat] You put me on drugs and then you put me in the Jacket.
You ok?
I'm fine.
[Beat] Listen, I hate to bother you...
Then don't.
But... what about Starks?
What about Starks?
Should we be...
Should we be what? Trying to change him any way we can? [Beat] Yes.
But the Jacket? I mean...should we be leaving him in like that?
Don't get all worked up, Justin. I expected some common sense on your part and clearly I was expecting too much. [Beat] Just open the drawer.
We never should have done this to him...
Well, what are we gonna do about it now?
Hello, Mrs. Watchit. You're looking in the pink.
Must be all the exercise I get scampering up and down these stairs like a wee lamb.
I wonder if that poor girl has any idea what she's in for?
For our sake, I hope not.
I don't know what to tell you, sir. He's been gone this whole week.
And you've no idea where he went?
No, sir.
Sir?
I'm glad he's gone. Maybe he's finally found a place where he can be happy.
I think I might be. But there'll be some changes made. I run a tight house.
I have no doubt of that. I'll come by in the morning and we'll arrange it. Goodnight, Mrs. Watchit.
Goodnight, Mr. Philby.
How did you get hurt?
Kalen...
I found you. I saved your life. You were bleeding all over the place!
That's quite enough, Kalen.
What did you do at night?
What's it like where you come from?
We'll see about that.
I am. Are you a climber?
I want to see your home. Will you take me?
Kalen, right now you need to go up to bed. You're exhausting Alexander.
You'll tell me more tomorrow?
Kalen, it's all right, I'm here 
They're here! They're inside the house  !
No, you're safe 
They're inside 
Kalen, look at me. There's no one here but us. You see... I'm here, you're here, Alexander's here. There are no Morlocks. It was just a dream...
My fowl have polluted the yard.
Dean Fulton...
Sir, if I may 
Young man, we have a way of doing things here. Radical theorizing is not acceptable. Have I made myself understood?
If I might explain, sir 
You supported his application, Dr. Philby. You are his senior, advisor. I depend upon you to restrain his... excesses. Any repetition of the behavior I witnessed in his classroom today and there will be consequences for you both.
Yes, sir.
Now you are upsetting my fowl. Please go.
And hungry, I'd say. You had such a long journey.
I did...
Well, we're happy you're here. Come inside.
"Eloi"?
What are your people called?
Well, I guess you'd call us... New Yorkers.
New Yorkers.
We had another visitor from beyond the valley about four years ago. His name was Moren. Do you know him?
No...
He said he traveled for two months.
I took a different route.
Oh, very different. But not entirely... I mean we have lots of, um, trees and such. But not everywhere. And more roads. And buildings.
Why?
To live in. There's a lot of us... beyond the valley.
New Yorkers.
Yes. I hope you won't take this the wrong way but is there someone older I could talk to? An elder or patriarch of some kind?
I am the oldest.
No, I mean someone considerably older. Your father perhaps?
My father has gone to a better place.
I'm sorry, I didn't mean to...
Of course. You're just tired. Mara, will you look after Alexander tonight?
Good morning, Alexander. Feeling up to some work?
I suppose so.
Where do they take them?!
We don't know.
We have to go after them, find where  !
Alexander, I know you're trying to help. But they don't come back.
What do you mean?!
They've gone to a better place.
You know that's not true.
We choose to believe it.
My God! How can you just do nothing!? They're your friends, your family. You all knew Mara. You ate with her and worked with her... Your work in the valley, what is that for if not to 
This is out life, Alexander. It's a hard life but it is how we have always lived.
Then it's time to change that 
We are what we are.
You won't even try?
We can't change the day and the night, Alexander. This is the world.
Dr. Philby, Dr. Hartdegen. I received the most extraordinary letter last week. From a parent. We are always pleased to receive letters from parents. They are our employers, after all. This gentleman's son is in your class, Dr. Hartdegen.
I see.
As I recall the syllabus the name of your tutorial is "Applied Mathematics and Engineering", am I correct?
Exactly correct, sir.
Well, just as I thought. Surely it's all been a terrible mistake. This parent actually suggested that your freshman course in applied mathematics has somehow become a seminar on theoretical physics!
Imagine that.
But I know that none of my faculty would ever deviate from the assigned curriculum.
Well... perhaps I have "deviated" the tiniest bit.
Might I ask why?
Because the assigned curriculum is boring.
Sir, that curriculum is forty years out of date. The students today are looking toward the new century  they want to be challenged and inspired, not spoonfed dusty old equations that have been proved a thousand times. They want to explore.
Do they?
And roosters.
No, Dr. Hartdegen, they are not just chickens and roosters. They are science. Perhaps they aren't "inspiring" to you. Perhaps they don't "challenge" you 
No, sir 
Animal husbandry is science, Dr. Hartdegen. I have been breeding these fowl for fourteen years. I have filled a library with information on their feeding patterns, social behavior and breeding. Empirical, exacting, quantifiable records.
Sir 
With respect, sir, would we have the telegraph without fantasy? Would we have radium and Xrays without someone first dreaming we could?
The advances you speak of were the result of countless years of study and empirical experimentation, a careful evolutionary process, not chalkboard parlortricks.
My equations are not parlortricks!
Abstract mathematics, relativity of dimensions, geometrical "durations"  even allowing for the uses of speculation, what is the point?
Because it's a new way of seeing the world! Of seeing our place in it!
Yes, sir.
Very good. Now if you will excuse us for a moment.
Oh huzzah, the master's home.
Do you have it?!
Hello, Mr. Philby.
Don't torture me  do you have it?
I have it, but don't you think for one moment I'll be letting you go out in that filthy coat  now go upstairs and change. I've laid out your green coat.
What's the matter with  ?  What would I do without you, Mrs. Watchit?
Now that's more like it. You look a proper gentlemen for once.
Then if Emma turns me down will you marry me?
Oh, I'm already swooning.
Ouch  all right, wish me luck.
Sir, Mr. Philby is here.
Here?
Yes, sir, he 
Tell him to go away 
All right, Mrs. Watchit. You can go.
May I get you some 
That'll be all.
You're up! You must be feeling better 
Yes...
How long did you travel?
Well it seems like a long time  but it wasn't really. It's rather hard to explain.
Yes.
Thank you.
Is there a lot of illness?
Some. But I mean we aren't all so... handsome.
His curiosity is amazing.
Mm.
Kalen will tire you out if you let him. He's always been curious. His father was firm with him but... it's just his way.
Your husband is dead?
He's gone to a better place.
It's hard for me to imagine a better place. Where I come from there's so much... frenzy. Day and night. It seems we're all running faster and faster... ... All in identical bowler hats.
You're not from beyond the valley.
What makes you say that?
We don't have anything like this. Or the machine where Kalen found you. And I doubt they do beyond the valley... Now where do you come from?
You might find the truth rather hard to understand.
Then you can speak slowly.
Oh, that explains everything.
I know it's hard to believe, but it's true.
That machine 
Allowed me to travel from my time to yours.
How long ago?
More than 800,000 years.
Why?
Why not?
Why would you do that?
I might find the truth rather hard to understand?... Can you go back?
Yes. Or forward into the future. I suppose I really should check on the machine, see that it hasn't been damaged...
I'll take you tomorrow... You must have seen a lot on your journey.
For a time it was astounding. I saw the years spinning by, I was in the years spinning by. We made such advances. I don't understand half of them. There was a machine that talked to me and others that flew through the sky... We must have been incredible thinkers and artists 
Is he all right?
Just a dream. You should sleep too. You're still not well.
I'm going to sit with Kalen. Keep the fire burning if you can.
I will...
I'll take you to your machine tomorrow.
Thank you...
You seem fascinated by the stars.
You can see so many here.
Don't then have stars where you come from?
Not like this... They don't seem so bright with all the city lights. I never really noticed them much...
Good night, then.
Good night.
Mara, I had a strange dream last night. I was here, walking through a forest very much like this, and then...
Then you came to a desert and mountains...
Yes.
And you saw a shape ahead of you...
Yes!
We all have that dream.
All of you?
Every night.
You share dreams? That's incredible.
We share everything.
This is magnificent...
Thank you.
And this is your "work"?
Yes.
The mud carriers.
I can see Kalen's point.
Want to be a high climber now, do you?
What you need is an engineer. If you set up a system of pulleys and counterweights, some basic block and tackle mechanism, you could to this a lot more easily.
It's not supposed to be easy, it's supposed to be beautiful.
What's it all for?
I don't understand.
I mean, why do you do it? What purpose does it serve?
It has no purpose. It's just beautiful... Does everything have a purpose where you come from?
Most things. We're very high on purpose.
It's always been this way here. We work on the towers all our lives. When we're young we train to be planners or climbers or sculptors...
Or mud carriers.
And there's no shame to that. It's all the same here. Everyone has an important job to do. We all work together and couldn't survive without each other.
What are you?
I'm a planner. I help decide where the new towers go and what they should look like.
How do you decide?
I try to imagine how they'll look when they're done. I try to imagine how we'll fit in with them... our place in the world.
... It was a great city. The greatest city in the world.
You liked it there.
Oh, very much... ... I used to work somewhere in that direction, I think. A huge university where we taught everything from botany to history to literature.
Learning was important?
Oh very. Learning, commerce, the arts  the whole place was buzzing all the time. Night and day.
Did you have fires at night?
Only to keep warm. For illumination we had gaslights on most of the streets and a new invention called electrical lighting that made it seem like daylight all through the night.
It must have been safe.
Oh, it was... ... Most of the time.
It sounds like a wonderful place to live.
Looking back... I suppose it was. I didn't quite realize it at the time but...
Alexander...?
Orion's belt...
Those rocks, over there... they're the same... this is... Central Park.
You know this?
Over there was Fifth Avenue  and the Plaza Hotel was there... this is... the carriage path. We're on the carriage path.
This is where my journey started... right here.
You lost someone.
Yes.
Someone you loved very much.
Yes... After her death, it was intolerable for me here... The future had to be better.
Is it?
If you only knew...
You've welcomed me into your home. Into your lives. Everyone has... For the first time in a long time it doesn't hurt quite so much. I thank you for that.
I know what it is to lose someone. When my husband was taken from us... I thought the pain would never end.
Good  it looks fine. We had quite a ride together...
It's undamaged?
Yes... a little scorching on the upholstery but otherwise all ship shape.
So you can use it now?
Yes... I suppose so.
Go back to your own time?
I could...
Alexander, take my son away. Take him back to your time. Will you do that?
Mara 
Please, I beg you. Take him away from here 
Kalen...
Mara...?
No!
Mara  what  ?!
Kalen  we have to get Kalen  !
It was different then.
My laboratory was about... here. And the kitchen was over there, where that tree is. Mrs. Watchit wouldn't allow me in much... but, yes, this is about the kitchen.
Couldn't help but overhearing. Two fine young people starting out on the road of life. I wish you the very best.
Thank you...
I hope it's a happy journey for you both  and much as I hate to do this, moved as I am by your protestations of love, I'll be needing your money now.
Sir...?
And your jewelry too. I guess we could consider this your first little bump on the road to married bliss.
I don't understand.
Did you hear me, lad?
All right, all right  here  everything 
... The point is I know it will work once the, um, numbers and such are in order.
Do you know you were humming?
I was not.
Somewhere around "D+2xy something something."
Damned if I can keep her out of my equations.
Tonight's the night?
God, and I'm running late 
... One day he'll be discovered by some future archeologists and they won't know what to make of him. The thick brow, so lacking in imagination. The dim little eyes, devoid of curiosity.
You know generally teachers are supposed to teach real equations that add up to real numbers.
Where's the challenge in that?
Alex, this is your first year as an associate professor. You might want to play things a little more conservatively.
You sound like my father...
Look at them, Philby, all alike, everyone in an identical bowler hat. Do you want your students to turn out like them?
I want my students to emerge with theoretical and practical knowledge.
I don't. I want them to run along this street and knock off every bowler they see.
You may not like it, but this is the world we live in, Alex. Little grey men with little grey hats.
But shouldn't it be better? Shouldn't we be teaching our students to imagine a world beyond all this?
In the future, we'll be better.
What?
Nothing.
Emma actually likes chalk dust  says it smells like me.
How romantic...
The most able inventor I know and you can't tie a simple fourin hand.
That's how I knew we were destined to be together. When I met her parents for the first time I came right from class and I was covered in chalk. They sniffed and snorted, but she just smiled. At that moment  I just knew. How did you know with Molly?
She made the best Shepherd's pie I ever tasted.
Do you have a romantic bone in your body?
No, I'm all bowler hat, remember?
Alex, really... good luck tonight. She's a fine girl, and she's done wonderful things for you.
Oh?
She's gotten into your equations.
All these clocks  how can you constantly be running late?!
Perseverance.
I've been working.
I came by the house every day after the funeral. And then every week. Then every other month. Then I stopped coming. Did you even notice?
I'm sorry, David.
It hurt me, Alex. Very much.
Then why are you here?
It's my Jamie's birthday today. Your godson. He's nine years old. At his party he asked me if Uncle Alex was coming. I told him no. Then he asked me if you didn't like him anymore.
For God's Sake, David 
There are some things I need to say to you. You may not like hearing them, but I don't know if I'll ever get another chance 
You care for me. And you're concerned. And I have to start living my life again. I hear it from Mrs. Watchit every day.
But you won't listen. You won't see me, you won't see anyone. What would you like me to tell Jamie? That Uncle Alex is busy? That Uncle Alex is hiding up there in his laboratory 
Hiding?
You know that's what it is. Mrs. Watchit tells me you're here at all hours  day and night 
That's because I'm working. You remember that? You used to care about your work.
I care more about my life. And yours.
What happened to Emma will never go away. It's part of you now and it always will be. But you have to learn to live with it...
I live with it every minute of every day.
I know that 
You don't know that. You couldn't possibly. If I'd only done this, or that, if I'd arrived ten minutes earlier, or later. If we'd taken a different path or I hadn't fought the man for the ring. You have no idea what it is to relive every moment of that night  consider every action you made  and every one of them wrong.
It wasn't your fault, Alex.
Wasn't it?... I have a dream almost every night now. The Lady and the Tiger, you remember that story? In the dream I'm alone in a huge chamber with a thousand doors. Behind every door, save one, is a tiger. I have to make the decision. Which door conceals Emma? And I just stand there... looking at the doors...
Do you find her?
Alex, nothing will ever change what happened, but 
That's where you're wrong. I will change it.
David... I appreciate your concern, I do. But I ask you to have faith in me. Just for a little while longer. I'm working on something now. Something... extraordinary.
What is it?
You wouldn't believe me.
I would.
I'll tell you what... come by for dinner in a week and I'll show you.
Why don't you come to our house instead?
I can't do that 
When's the last time you were outside this house   or this room?
I can't leave when I'm so close.
There are trains leaving Grand Central every then minutes. A dozen liners leaving the harbor. Get on one of them. Go to Singapore, Scotland, Manchuria, anywhere, just away from here 
That's absurd 
You're dying here. Don't you see that?!
You won't say that in a week.
I pray to God that in a week you're not here.
All right. I'll come for dinner. And in the meantime... you'll think about what we discussed?
In a week... we will never have had this conversation.
Good night, David.
Good night, Alex.
And this would be my study. There was an elm tree outside the window then.
I'm glad.
This... was my home.
His home.
You're late.
Got here as soon as I could.
Dance with me...
You know I can't.
Trust me...
You promised me flowers.
What?
You promised me flowers tonight, don't you even remember?
Sorry... I was distracted.
Well there's something new.
I need to... um... talk to you.
Talk away, Professor.
Not here... alone. May we? Please?
... Orion's belt, pointing to the earth. You see it over the rocks there? Sailors consider that an omen of good fortune; the hunter watching over them on their travels... Are you listening to me, Alex?
What? Yes  Orion  good fortune  sailors.
All right, what is it now?
Emma, you know I have great... admiration for you.
Admiration? My my.
I mean... well... affection.
You're getting warmer.
Oh dammit, I love you! I can't eat, I can't sleep, I can't think, all I do is moon over you and  hum, apparently.
And what do you propose, Professor? Shall we hold a seminar to study the problem?
You know, the moment is rather dying here.
Hold on... I know I have it...
I know it's not a diamond but 
A moonstone.
Your birth stone. I thought 
You're late.
Got here as soon as I could.
Dance with me...
You know I can't.
Trust me...
Alex, what is it?
Holding you... again.
Darling.
I need... to talk to you.
All right...
Not here... alone. Please.
Let's walk through the park...
No... let's walk through the city.
All right...
Alex, what is it?
Nothing  let's just get out of the park.
Alex...?!
Shhh. Let's just hurry on here. We don't have to talk, all right?
Why do we have to race for heaven's sake?!
I want to get into the light, that's all. Please...
My God...
Alex, it's just the zoo.
You're so pale... I hope you're not coming down with something.
No, I'm fine. I'm... ... wonderful. Just walking down the street with you again.
We took a walk three days ago.
Not like this. Never like this. Emma, I swear to you  if I've learned one thing, it's that moments like this are rare. And I will thank God for them every moment of every day.
They are rare... ... Orion's belt, pointing to the earth 
The sailor's omen of good fortune. The hunter watching over him on his travels.
So it's astronomy now, is it?
Heavens, look at that now!
I've seen it.
Now I know you're ill  passing up the chance to explore some new gadget.
It's only a machine.
Alex... people are staring.
Let them.
Let them.
I have something for you...
May I help you?
I  what are you?!
I am the Fifth Avenue Public Library informational kiosk. VOX registration NY114. May I help you?
What's happening to the moon?!
The 2005 terraforming demolitions for the lunar excavations sent the moon into a diminishing retrograde orbit resulting in global gravitational fluctuations, increased seismic activity and tidal anomalies. Can I tell you more?
No  wait  the moon's falling out of orbit  that's not possible!
Well, considering it is, in fact, happening, I would assume it's possible. The retrograde orbit began in 2005 when the demolitions for the lunar colonies 
Why is it  breaking up?
I was getting to that... The moon has reached the gravitational Roche Limit, 7,300 miles above the surface of the Earth. This has created pressure on the lunar stratum beyond gravitational tolerances. It might be helpful to know that the nearest public evacuation shelters can be found at Grand Central Station, Madison Square Garden 
It's spectacular...
Thanks. Old Nell's my girl all right. Al least when she decides to move, stubborn beast.
I've only read about them  and the new internals.
Now that's what I call plain crazy  internal combustion is just too dangerous, all those little explosions, never catch on.
How do you keep the water temperature stable?
There's a cantilevered gasket on the 
God  could have killed me  bad girl, Nell! How did you know to do that?
I just love mechanical things.
Well, much obliged  I'm always forgetting the confounded brake  say, if you wait until I get her up and running I'll give you a perambulation. Tell you all about her.
Ahhh... I'm afraid I've got a prior commitment.
Next time then. We perambulate here most every night.
You have my word... ... She's just a beauty.
What's your name?
Alexander.
Well, Alexander, as a fellow scientist I know you have a thousand questions 
You came underground when the world was ending above. And you evolved. Some into the Morlocks and others 
No, we created the Morlocks.
Created?
You wouldn't understand. We genetically engineered the Morlock class to serve our needs.
As slaves.
To work the machines and build the tunnels. You can't imagine what it was like when it all started. We survived for millennia, scraping the lichen and microscopic organisms from the rock with our teeth and digging for water with our nails. Endlessly. For generations. And we... became.
And centuries later when we tried to emerge into the sun again, we couldn't. Our adaptation was too successful. We survived... we endured... for this.
How do you control the Morlocks?
We make them see what we wish.
How?
As our bodies atrophied our minds... compensated.
And what of the Eloi?
They survived above. Became what they are.
No... they didn't survive only to be your food. You did that.
I'm afraid your indignation is lost here. I have no more "human" response to the Eloi then you would have to a carrot. It's just how we live now.
But this is barbaric! Have you completely lost all sense of 
And who are you, Alexander? Who are you to question thousands of years of evolution? This is the world now. I am fact.
It can't all be like this...
What?
Go back to where you came from. Or die here.
Why would you let me go back?
Because the past is immutable. Frozen. Dead... And you are the past.
Say I just come back again?
Alexander, yours is a world of brocade and velvet, not tooth and claw. Why would you come back to this? To save a few cattle? No.
I could tell them. Warm them of what's to come.
Why?
We have lost the capacity to reproduce. But the species must continue.
So you take their best...
When a creature shows too much independent thought we remove them from the gene pool. We're breeding them for submission. Soon they will be fully domesticated.
You took her because she helped me.
Yes. Initiative and daring are not desirable traits in the Eloi. But you should be happy for her. She won't remember the creature she was. She will... become.
She won't remember you. None of them will. You will be forgotten. That is how history works.
A man can change his history.
After all you've seen... after man's entire journey... you still believe that?
Now will you go?
No...
If I can only find the right door... the lady or the tiger...
No...
It's always the tiger for you, Alexander, haven't you learned that by now?...
That was a foolish thing to do.
I'm a foolish man.
I could have a hundred Morlocks here in thirty seconds.
I know.
Does this prove something to you? Have you made some great stand of which I'm unaware?
I'm tired of running.
Oh, you won't be running for long...
But you've earned a reward for your valor. I think you should become. You'll like it here. Once you get used to the darkness.
I don't think that's going to happen.
And why not?
Because...
Right up your alley, I would think. You are from the past, yes?
How did you know?!
I can smell carcinogens and industrial pollutants on your skin that have not been known here for   800,000 years perhaps. Don't keep me in suspense. What year?
1899.
I must say, you look remarkably good. You don't want a book then?
What are you?
I'm the librarian. I've always been the librarian.
I know you  you're an automaton of some sort that 
An "automaton"?! Please! I'm a biomechanical organism. Well, what's left of one. What's left of all of them, actually. I am the last... ... And "these fragments I have shored against my ruins." T.S. Eliot. You wouldn't know him yet but you'll just love him, he's divine, if a little dour. Very shy though... hiding over here...
Sir... have you a name?
I am called Vox... ... Now you are Eloi.
Please, we need your help. The Morlocks have taken 
Morlocks 
You know of them?
Who doesn't know the Morlocks?
Do you know where they live?
Oh yes... They found our knowledge useful for a time. They used us much as your people did. Then they decided they had learned enough so they tore us up for spare parts.
But you escaped.
I was lucky. The others weren't.
How have you survived so long?
Regenerating fission reactor, you wouldn't understand. It's power is well beyond your neanderthal cranial capacity.
Can you show us where they live?
We need your help.
Why should I help you? You primates  you great, lumbering, hairy animals, drenched in blood from the moment of your hideous conception  what have you ever used knowledge for but destruction and bloodshed! A little bit of learning and you lay waste to the world! You're no better than the Morlocks!
Because you'll never die.
Excuse me?
You'll live like this forever. Alone. You were meant to help. To be with people. Not like this.
So, Relic, you want to open Pandora's box, do you? See all the mysteries exposed?
Yes.
And if the truth is so horrible that it will haunt your dreams for all time?
I'm used to that.
When was his mother taken?
Last night.
Send him away.
What?
Send him home. You don't want him to see it.
Kalen... hold on a minute.
My God... I saw this.
It frightens you.
Yes...
It was meant to.
So, do we go on?
Yes.
Aren't you a plucky little  ?
Oh, shut up.
It's what they want you to see.
This is the way in?
Yes... Are you sure you want to do this?
Yes. But you've done enough. Thank you for your help... I hope someday people read your books again.
In for a penny, in for a pound. Do you know that saying?
Yes... Thank you.
Machines?
Yes.
Do you know which way?
Vox?
This way.
What's it all for?
The air... the power.
Why did they built it?
The Morlocks didn't build this.
Alexander... Listen to me, it was wrong to bring you. You're not going to find what you're looking for.
What do you mean?
Trust me... You don't want to see any more.
They raise them like cattle... Feed them until they're ready and then hunt them.
No...
How are your dreams now?
This has to end.
End...?
This has to end.
Vox 
Imagine that... seems that little devil got my power relays...
Takes a licking but keeps on ticking... ... For a while anyway.
What can I do? Tell me what to do.
Nothing to do, I'm afraid. I'm just a librarian after all. Wasn't exactly made for all this swashbuckling. Very Byronic end, though. I appreciate that. Do you know Byron?
Vox...
I'm babbling. Good to have someone to talk to for a change... But you need to go. Take her out of here... ... I don't have long.
I won't leave you like this.
Go back to the light. You weren't made for this. I was... I was made for this moment.
I don't understand.
I'm going to end it, Alexander. As we discussed...
Now get out of my sight, you hideous primate.
I'll never forget this.
I should hope not... ... Alexander... Make them read my books. Tell them who they are. Who they could be.
I will...
It must have been hard, leaving your work.
The journey is part of my work.
Now how did you get hurt?
I had an accident.
I figured that. What kind of accident?
What do you do on the towers?
On the towers?
I'm training to be a high climber.
Ah... no.
Don't tell me you're a mud carrier.
'Fraid so. Just a regular old... mud carrier.
... Thousands and thousands of people. And sometimes we live in great buildings that reach up five or ten stories.
And everyone looks like us?
Exactly like you. Well, maybe not as healthy.
She didn't want me to be a climber. She wanted me to be a planner like her.
I'm so sorry, Kalen.
How can they just go back to work as if nothing happened?
What else can they do?
Kalen... Do you have any idea where they take them?
We're not supposed to think about it. But I dream about it sometimes...
There's a place that might help... we could try going there.
Where?
The Hall of Books.
You have books?! Kalen, you've got to take me there. There might be history. Records. Something to help us find where the Morlocks took 
I shouldn't have mentioned it. We can't go there.
No one ever comes here. My mother told me stories about it late at night. They tell all the children.
What kind of stories?
About the voice in the darkness. About the ghosts...
I had a friend who came here once. Sort of a dare.
What happened?
He came back screaming... He never talked about it after that. I don't think he even got this far.
I think we should go on by ourselves.
No...
Please, just listen to me... Your mother would be very cross with me if you got hurt. I'll find her.
But you're only a mud carrier.
I'll be all right... You go back to the village and light the fire. So we can find our way home.
... Well, you wanted to see it.
This is it?
Around here.
Yes. Just about here.
But there's nothing here.
... Made sure I got ahead of him on the towline on the way back... cut him loose.
MacReady...?
He's one of them.
When do you think it got to him?
You hear that?
Hear what?
It's got into the pub! It's turned on the stereo!
What?!
It's in between us and them!! How we going to get back?!
Can't hear you.
You jerking off or just pissed?
We got any more of those electronic chess things down in supply?
Get your gear on.
What for?
Magnesium of some type... or some kind of strange alloy. And those poor dumb bastards had to go and blow the hell out of it.
So what do you make of it?
You know damn well what we both make of it.
No chance it could have been some new kind of test craft?
Somebody else sure as hell thought so.
Who else could have used that key?
We should sleep in shifts.
Right. Half of us awake at all times.
What's happened?!
MacReady, that you?
Yeah!
It's the generator I think! No power.
Well, let's get down there.
That thing's too smart to be hiding any more of its clothes, MacReady.
Just keep looking.
This storm do that?
Couldn't be possible. Must have weighted a ton and a half...
... Hey, somebody! Open up, it's me, MacReady... ... Come on, damn it... The towline snapped. Been crawling around like a seal out here...
Bullshit! He's got to know damn well I cut it!
We're going to draw a little bit of everybody's blood.
What are you going to do? Drink it?
Watching Norris in there... gave me the idea that maybe every part of you bastards is a whole. Every piece of you is selfsufficient, an animal unto itself. When a man bleeds it's just tissue. But blood from one of you Things won't obey. It's a newly formed individual with a builtin desire to protect its own life. When attacked, your blood will try and survive  and crawl away from a hot needle say.
What is it?
Everything that's been missing.
Where was he trying to go?
Anyplace but here.
What about Childs?
Forget about Childs. He's over.
You and Nauls got to block off the west side bunks, the mess hall and the kitchen.
You crazy? He might be inside already?
Chance we got to take. We got to force him to come down the east side to the door we got rigged.
Get back!!
The generator!
Screw the generator!!
Got Sanchez... World War Three wouldn't mess with this fucker... Can go through walls... And it's like all over the place...
Calm down and get in your position.
Position, my ass...
Maybe it ain't coming.
Then we go after him.
Bet the last place you ever go.
How we going to try and find out who's... you know, who's who?
Can you think of any other tests?
Where were the flashlights?
Screw the flashlights. Where the hell were you?
We've got to find Fuchs. When we find him  we kill him.
Why?
If he's one of those Things, we've got to get to him before he changes... Nauls, you and Childs and I'll check the outside shacks...
What if it doesn't come?
It'll come. It needs us. We're the only thing left to imitate... Give me a hand.
He might just wait us out.
I'm going to blow the generator when you get back. He'll have to come for us  or freeze.
Four!
What is it out there, anyway? Fortyfive knots?
What's...
Blair. He's gone berserk.
Oh, I got you. Not too long.
Then get a move on. Childs, come with me.
How's that Thing get to the dogs? I though we stopped it in time.
Copper thinks they swallowed pieces of it during the fight.
And that was enough?
No it ain't there. Would I be asking if it were there?
Move it, Palmer.
Sanchez...? Hey, who...
Mac, where the hell is that pump!!
Somebody definitely messed with it.
We going to make it?
Hope so. Another ten, fifteen minutes. What I don't get is...
Sanchez, you and Palmer search the inside...
I ain't going with Sanchez.
What kind of test?
I'm sure a lot of you already know.
Tie up Clark, too.
He's dead.
Norris looked pretty dead, himself. Bullets don't kill these Things.
Look, if you're going to keep bitching, MacReady  Palmer's offered to take him up...
What are you talking?! He's had two months training in those choppers!
We're on fire!
Don't let up, Childs!
Extinguishers.
You're not thinking of going after them, are you?
I am going after them.
Get these things out of supply and meet me over by the snowmobiles.
You're not going to catch them in one of those with the start they got.
Palmer, how long would it take you to strap those big fourcylinder carburetors on?
Ah... no one... I give it to Copper when he needs it...
Could anyone have gotten it from you?
Let's rush him. He's not going to blow us all up.
Damn if I won't.
Pure nonsense. This won't prove a damn thing.
Thought you'd feel that way, Garry. You were the only one who could have gotten to that blood plasma... ... we'll do you last...
Looks good.
One thousand volts. Should be enough.
How long's it been?
Little over two hours.
Hey, man...!
You reach anybody yet?
We're a thousand miles from anybody else, man. It's going to get a hell of a lot worse before it gets better.
Well, stick to it.
Couple seconds of an Argentine disco station.
Well, stick with it. I want you at it round the clock. We got to get help in here...
Put that down!
No.
I'll put this right through your head.
Gotta be from the Norwegian camp.
How far's that?
'Bout eighty kilos southwest.
That far?
How many in their party?
Started with six. There'd be four others left.
Right. Why not?
What's that?
Can there be... some kind of test? To find out who's what?
A serum test possibly.
I don't see how... when I'm finished I return it right away.
When was the last time you used it?
A day or so ago... I guess.
I'm getting worried about you. You ought to have a checkup.
Let's just not get worried about anything just now.
After all this mess then.
After all this mess.
... Guys as crazy as that could have done a lot of damage to their own before they got to us.
Nothing we can do about that.
Yes, there is. I'd like to go up.
In this weather?
Bennings?
Goes on like that quite awhile. What do you gentlemen make of it?
Could be anything... Men in isolation... some beef that snowballed... got out of hand...
Hold on, damn it. We're getting nowhere... If this bit of Blair's about absorbing and imitating is true... then that dog could have gotten to anybody.
And if it got to Clark... Clark could have gotten to anybody.
How long will it take you to prepare this?
A couple of hours.
Well, get to it.
Screw regulations! Four guys could be crawling around on their bellies out there!
So, I don't want to end up crawling around with them when we go down.
My God, what in hell happened here?
Come on, Copper.
Hey, Sweden!!!
They're not Swedish, goddamn it, they're Norwegian, MacRe 
Anything?
All in Norwegian.
What are you doing?
Could be important work. Might as well bring it back.
It's getting late. Hurry it. I'm going to check the last few rooms.
Well, who's got access to it?
I guess I'm the only one.
Would that test have worked?
I think so.
Now hold him.
I'm a real light sleeper, Childs...
Enough, MacReady!
And if anyone tries to wake me...
Damn you, MacReady!
I guess you're okay.
Thank you.
Didn't think you'd use that fibrillator on Norris if you were one of them.
What's happening?
Childs, you got the torch? You get your ass in here!!
Torch it over there!
The dogs?
Screw the dogs!! Torch it!!
MacReady!
Look, I'm just guessing...
Well, go on.
... So it crashes, and this guy, whoever he is, gets thrown out, or walks out, and ends up freezing.
I just can't believe this voodoo bullshit. You believe this voodoo bullshit, Blair?
Yeah, they dig him up and cart him back. He gets thawed out, wakes up and scares the shit out of them. And they get into one hell of a brawl...
Now how's this motherfucker wake up after thousands of years in the ice, huh?
I don't know how. Because he's different than we are. Because he's a space guy. What do you want from me, anyway. Go ask Blair.
You buy any of this, Blair?
I can get maybe another five or six feet out of it.
That's good enough.
Where's the other half?
Probably the next meal.
What we going to do?!
How the fuck do I know?!
Torch them!!
But...
He's gone already! Do it!
What do we do about those three?
We got morphine, don't we.
MacReady!
What?
Garry's missing!
Oh, shit! Well, hang on!
Gee, thanks!
Well, who says I want you going with me?!
Cut the bullshit... Okay, Sanchez, you come with us. Norris... you stay here... Any of them move  you fry 'em. And if you hear anything, anything at all you let loose the siren. We all meet back here in twenty minutes regardless. And everybody watch whoever you're with. Real close.
... Nothing human could have made it back here in this weather without a guideline...
... Where is everybody?! I'm half frostbit!
What are you doing?
You're a dead man, MacReady  or a dead whatever the hell you are!
We found your clothes  the ones you tried to burn.
What clothes?
You been made, MacReady.
... Ever occur to the jury that anybody could have gotten to some of my clothes and stuck them up...
We ain't buying that.
Palmer, you and Copper tie everyone down. Real tight.
What for?
For your health.
You ain't tying me up.
Then I'll have to kill you.
Then kill me.
We should have jumped his ass.
Now Copper, you tie Palmer up.
Load of bullshit.
We'll see. Let's try Clark.
Spaceship of some kind.
Smart S.O.B. He put it together piece by piece.
I think so.
What do you mean "you think so?"
Not the only one.
The fire's got the temperature way up all over camp... won't last long though.
Neither will we.
Maybe we should try and fix the radio... try and get some help.
Maybe we shouldn't.
Then we'll never make it.
Maybe we shouldn't make it.
If you're worried about anything, let's take that blood test of yours.
If we've got any surprises for each other  we shouldn't be in any condition to do anything about it. You play chess?
Lighten your load, sucker. You ain't the judge and executioner around here!
Who you trying to protect, mutherfucker? I'm telling you this S.O.B. could be one of them.
Childs! That a fuse?
No. The generator. You got the auxiliary box just off the kitchen. Get to it. Where's the damn flashlight? You fellas okay over there?
Cut that out, Copper. Nauls? What's taking you?!
I'm working it! Nothing's happening!
That's impossible, man! Okay, Clark, out of the john where I can see you!
It's shorted out or something!
Clark, you come on out here!!
Somebody's taken it. I can't find it!
Clark, you want me to come in after you?!
Cut him loose of the line up by his shack.
Cut him loose?
When we were up poking around his place... I found this...
You catch anything he was saying?
Am I starting to look Norwegian to you, Bwana?
I suppose... well, it's possible someone might have lifted it from me. But...
That key ring of yours is always hooked to your belt. Now how could somebody get to it without you knowing?
Look, I haven't been near that... that refrigerator.
I said where? Where'd you go?!
Was dark... find a light...
You lying bastard...
Happens all the time, man. They're falling out of the skies like flies. Government knows all about it... Chariots of the Gods, man... They practically own South America. I mean they taught the Incas everything they knew...
Cool it, Palmer!!
Childs, where's that magneto from Chopper One?
Ain't it there?
What?
Don't walk behind me.
Auxiliary light cables...? Been cut.
Cut, bullshit. Been pulled apart.
Somebody broke in.
Now who'd go and do...
Childs!!
Let go of me...
Don't get near 'em. The plants! They're alive. Those things can imitate anything...
What's it going to do, being a plant?
We got to burn 'em.
Now hold on, you dumb...
Why didn't it imitate Fuchs? Isn't that its number  to get more recruits.
Wasn't enough time. Generator was out, what...? Thirty minutes. Takes the bastards an hour, maybe two to absorb somebody.
Could have been anytime. Anywhere.
If it did get to him.
Let's open it.
Hell no.
Let's open it. Now...
Why you so damn anxious to let him in here...
He's so close. Maybe our best chance to blow him away.
No. Just let him freeze out there.
Too damn dangerous.
... You think this Thing wants to become an animal? Dogs can't make it 1000 miles to the sea. No skua gulls to imitate this time of year... No penguins this far inland... Don't you understand?! It wanted to become us!
... Can't you see...? If one cell of this Thing got out it could imitate every living thing on Earth. Nothing could stop it! Nothing!
Look Blair, maybe you're right about this. But we've got to be rational. We've got to talk this over. I'm unarmed and I'm coming in.
No, you're not! I don't trust any of you!
How you doin', old boy?
I don't know who to trust.
Know what you mean, Blair. Trust is a tough thing to come by these days. Just trust in the Lord.
Watch Clark.
What?
Watch him close. Ask him why he didn't kennel the dog.
I've changed my mind... I'd... I'd like to come back inside... I don't want to stay out here any more... Funny things... I hear funny things out here.
Have you come across Fuchs?
Fuchs...? No, it's not Fuchs... You must let me back in... I won't harm anyone... I promise...
We'll see...
Whatever that Norwegian dog was... It... It was capable of changing its form... ... when it attacked our dog... it somehow was able to digest... or... absorb it... and in the process shaped its own cells to imitate our dog's cells exactly... ... This for instance isn't dog at all  it's imitation... We got to it before it had time to finish or...
Finish what?
... I think the whole process would have taken an hour... maybe more. And then I suppose both would have changed back to dog form.
What you doin'?
Nobody's getting in here. You can tell them all that!
Well, who the hell you think wants to get in there with you?
Now why'd you go and...
And I don't want any more food with sedatives in it. I know what you're up to. Don't think I don't. And if anyone tries to get in here  I've got rope. I'll hang myself before it gets to me.
You promise?
Was that dog, the Norwegian dog?
I just can't comprehend any of this. It was just a dog.
Couldn't make much of it myself.
I've asked him to try and locate the site. Okay with you?
Sure. You think there's a connection?
Maybe.
Look, I know it's hard to believe...
So what's our problem?
Well... there's still some cell activity... it's not entirely dead yet.
... It could have gotten to somebody...
Anybody sick?
No, I... I don't mean infection... or disease...
Listen to me, Garry. Please...
If the weather clears enough before we reach anybody  I'm sending you and Doc up to MacMurdo...
Don't you understand?! That Thing didn't want to become a dog...
Damn you, Blair! You've already got everybody halfhysterical around here.
You can't let anybody leave!
I've got six dead Norwegians on my hands, a burned up flying saucer, and we've just destroyed the scientific find of the century. Now fuck off!
What do you mean "got" to the dog?
It was a life form that was able to imitate and reproduce, whatever it ate or absorbed, cell for cell.
Clark, did you notice anything strange about that dog? Just anything at all? Any little thing?
No. Just that he recovered real quick... That night when I found him in the rec room, he had already scraped off his bandage. Before I put him with the others, I redressed his wound and noticed it had healed up real good...
That night?
Yeah.
What was he doing in the rec room?
Well, after I worked on him  thought I'd let him rest. Left the room for a bit. When I came back, he was gone.
Well, where was he? Where did he go?
Don't know. Looked for him for a bit... couldn't find him.
You're saying he wasn't put into the kennel until the night?
How long were you with the dog? Alone, I mean?
Ah... He was hurt bad. Bullet nicked an artery... I don't know... An hour... hour and a half...
What the hell you looking at me like that for?
Nothing. Nothing at all.
Sixteen.
And the horse you rode in on. Sixteen for how long?! You can't predict this time of year...
What do you want from us?
Just listen.
Pretty nasty out, Mac. Thirtyfive knots.
Screw it, I'm going up anyway.
All right... Box of dynamite... box of thermite... three shotguns... box of flares... two flare guns... thirty cans gasoline... and a case of alcohol.
Let's load 'em.
Maybe dinner.
Dogs don't eat each other.
I know.
Where these tracks headed?
Nowhere... Just straight to the ocean.
What!? He <u>can</u> and I <u>can't</u>?! No fair!!
That's okay, Mom. I can see it later. I'll help you unload.
This is kind of a cool place.
I'm so excited I just can't hide it. I'm about to lode control and I think I like it.
Will you give Mom a break?
Grandpa does not own a T.V. Have you noticed? There's no T.V. Santa Carla has no malls, no Cineplexes and now I won't even have MTV. I will not know anything hip happening anymore.
Hey, Sam, we're flat broke.
Even poor people have T.V.s
This room is mine.
I was here first.
Okay. I'll flip you for it.
You're beautiful.
Wanna change my hair, my clothes, my face.
Where are we going?
Nowhere.
Then what's the rush? You're chasing that girl, why don't you just admit it? I'm at the mercy of your sex glands!
Don't you have something better to do than follow me around all night?
Mom, you hitched all the way to Berkeley once, remember?
Mom, just give me five more minutes. Just five minutes, okay?
Do I have to do this?
Come on, Sam, you know before there were malls there was 'like the ocean.'
Go away.
You're supposed to watch me and entertain me, and make me appreciate the brief but happy years of childhood.
Entertain yourself.
What did <u>you</u> do last night? You look wasted.
I can't remember much after the Chinese food that looked like maggots.
You don't suppose Grandpa's an alien, do you?
What would that make Mom?
You're right... not even to mention you and me.
Did you spill something?
No. Why?
The bottoms of your feet are covered with salt.
I told you it was pretty weird Chinese food.
Wanna go to the comic book store?
No.
Mom's home?...
No. On the phone.
I'm making you a sandwich.
Don't bother.
Lose the earring, Michael. It's not happening. It's just not happening.
Piss off.
You have such a great personality, Michael. You should open your own charm school.
Michael?
Don't turn on the light.
What happened, Michael!?
Nanook...
What about Nonook? What have you done to Nanook?! What have you done to my dog, you asshole?!
Nothing! I didn't hurt him. <u>He</u> bit <u>me</u>! This is <u>my</u> blood!
What did you to do him, Michael? Why did he bite you?
He was protecting <u>you</u>!
What??
Look at your reflection in the mirror!!
We've got to stick together, Sam. You've got to help me.
What about Mom?
No! We can't tell Mom! Please, Sam. Don't tell her.
I don't know, Michael. This is not like breaking a lamp or getting a 'D'.
Just for a few days, Sam. Give me a chance to work this out by myself.
It's that girl from the boardwalk. Is she one of them?
I don't know.
Star.
Don't kill anybody until we get back to you...
Who are you calling?
The Marines.
Michael! Get behind the wheel.
Huh?...
What's the matter?
I... I don't feel any differently. Do you?
Are you following me?
Well, I...
Did you want to talk to me?
Well... yeah. Sure.
Okay. Talk.
I just wanted to... I, uh...
Hi...
If you want your ear pierced, I'll do it.
What's your name?
Star.
Oh. Your folks, too, huh?
What do you mean?
Exhippies. My mom was one. I came this close to being called Moon Child, or Moon Beam or something. But Star's great. I <u>like</u> Star.
Me, too.
I'm Michael.
Michael's great. I like Michael.
I guess you're new around here.
Sort of. We used to come here summers when I was kid. Now we're here on a permanent basis.
Are you hungry? Wanna get something to eat?
Okay.
Ouch.
Don't be a baby. That didn't hurt and you know it.
I wouldn't have given my Mom such a hard time about moving here if I'd known I was going to meet you.
I used to fight with my family all the time... just got fed up and ran away.
Now you and David...
No. They've made me one of them, but I miss my family.
Let's go see them.
No... no, everything's different now...
I have to talk to you. Please wake up.
Have to sleep. Have to sleep, Michael.
When?
Tonight. At the boardwalk...
I have to talk to you. Can I come up?
Okay.
Do you know where David took me tonight, Star? Do you?!
Yes... and I'm to blame for it. If you hadn't met me... if I hadn't liked you... I tried to warn you...
That night in the cave  that wasn't wine they gave me to drink... it was blood! David's blood. I'm one of them, Star! I'm just like them!
Not yet... You're like Laddie and me... Halfvampires... You're not a full vampire until you've made your first kill... You were supposed to be mine... but I couldn't, Michael.
Why not?
Because I love you...
Then it's not too late for us...
It's not too late for you to be saved... but each night... it becomes harder and harder for me to resist killing...
I know, I've felt it...
I'm weak... Soon I'll need to feed.
David's looking for me... I have to go.
You're not going anywhere... Sam...
You've got to put this on.
Take laddie.
Huh?
Save Laddie first.
They'll be coming for Laddie and me, won't they?
They'll be coming for <u>all</u> of us.
It's gone. I feel it!
So do I!
How about a little Parmesan cheese on that?
Okay, Sam. Thanks.
Does it burn?
Burn?? Are you kidding? It's freezing!
I am?
Yeah. I'm not trying to replace your Dad... or steal your Mom. I just want to be your friend.
But you passed the test!
Michael invited me in. Never invite a vampire into your house. It renders you powerless.
What?! Did you know that!?
You've got a generous nature. I like that in a person. My name is Max.
Lucy.
So what can I help you find tonight, Lucy? We've got it all. Best selection in Santa Carla.
I'm not looking for a tape. What I need is 
 a job.
Do I look that needy?
Say hello to Thorn.
Hi, Thorn.
You're cute, Max.
I know. It's so 'Eighties.' It's the Cute Decade.
Not impressed, are you?
Ohm I would have been... one marriage ago.
So, I've met the one woman on the planet who's going to hold my success against me.
You seem like a terrific guy, Max, and I'm grateful for the job...
But I don't think it's what you really want to do, is it?
I guess if I had my choice, I'd like to do something that involves children. Work with kids in some way. Teenagers, maybe. And Santa Carla seems to be full of them.
Yeah. Runaways, mostly. They come from all over. Attracted by the boardwalk and the ocean. Lucy... listen I know I have no right to ask you this... but don't look for another job just yet... I mean besides being the best employee I have... I think you're cute.
I hear this is the decade for cute.
Is it okay for the guest to see the food before the dinner?
You're thinking of the groom not seeing the bride before the wedding.
Oh, right. I always gets those two confused.
This looks terrific, Lucy.
Boy! <u>Somebody</u> areound here sure has bad breath!
Max! What's wrong?
It's <u>garlic</u>!! I like garlic, but...
I'm really sorry, Max.
Our batting average isn't very good is it? So far we're zero for two.
I don't understand Sam. He's just not like this.
Boys Sam's age need a good deal of discipline, or they walk all over you.
He doesn't walk all over me.
I don't want to fight with you, Lucy. Come on. Let's give it one more try. Dinner at my house, tomorrow night. I'm cooking.
Maybe this is the night where everything finally goes right for a change.
I hope so.
Something the matter?
No, no. Just worrying about my boys  as usual.
Let me tell you something about boys. They're like weeds. They grow best when they're ignored.
I thought you said they needed discipline?
Well... what do I know? I'm a bachelor. Lucy... this is going to be a very special night, I promise you.
Max... what are you talking about?
It was all going to be so perfect, Lucy. One big happy family. My boys... and <u>yours</u>.
Will somebody please tell me what this is all about!?
It's you I was after all along, Lucy. To be our day time guardian. I knew if we could bring Sam and Michael into the faimly, there'd be no way you could say no.
We're getting close...
What's that smell?
Ocean air!
Smells like something died.
Guys, I know it hasn't been easy... the divorce and now the move... but I think you're really going to like living in Santa Carla...
Mom, there's an amusement park right on the beach!
That's the boardwalk, Sam.
Can we go now, huh? LUCY Maybe later. Grandpa's expecting us.
Tell them to get something to eat.
I thought we were poor.
Not that poor.
When you ran away from home, hitch hiked to Berkeley, spent the night in Golden Gate Park and begged for spare change in the morning?
You've heard this story before?
So many times, I'm starting to think it happened to me.
Help me, Mom. Help.
Soon.
He met a girl.
I guess no one cares what I got a job.
Can we get a T.V.?
Lights out, Sam.
Soon as I finish this comic. Okay?
Sam. Is everything all right?
Mom. I think we've got to have a long talk about something?
What's wrong? Tell me.
We can't talk about it on the phone.
Sam! What happened!? You had me scared to death. Are you all right?
Sorry, Mom. It was a mistake. I thought I saw something out the window. I was reading this horror comic and I guess I go a little carried away...
Where's Michael?
He's already gone to bed.
Can I sleep in here with you tonight?
In here?
Do you mind? It was a real scary comic.
Okay. Have you been eating pizza? You smell like garlic.
These are my dinner guests. Edgar and Alan. The Frog Brothers.
Ah... I didn't know you were having guests...
Well if we're in your way we can just eat peanut butter out of the jar in the kitchen.
No, no... there's plenty for everybody... Oh, Max, this is Sam... and the Frog Brothers...
Nanook, stop breathin' on me.
C'mere, Nanook.
Oh, no. Now what?
Must be a circuit breaker.
What did you say?
Vampires, Mom! Everywhere! You've got to tell the police! The newspapers! The TV stations! They'll listen to you. They'll believe you... you're a <u>mom</u>!
Not funny, Sam!
This is not a joke. They know that we know about them. They're coming to the house as soon as it gets dark!
Stop it, Sam. Stop it right now!
But, Mom...
Not another word! I can't believe you're doing this. I'm going to see Max tonight and you're trying to ruin it for me again.
No, I'm not...
There's nothing wrong with Max. I don't know why you don't 
 I'm not talking about Max! To hell with Max!
Ohmygod...
Mom!
What happened? Is everybody all right?!
Still mad at me?
For what.
For everything.
He looks dead.
He's just a deep sleeper.
He's not breathing, Mom.
It's early. Why do we have to go home?
Bring your own wheels tomorrow night and you can stay as long as you want... well 'til eleven thirty maybe.
I'll hitch.
Oh, no, you won't.
See you later.
I get off in another twenty minutes. I thought maybe we'd all get a bite together.
I'll pass.
Michael, are you still in bed?
No. I'm up.
Michael, will you do me a favor this evening? Will you stay home with Sam tonight? I'm meeting Max for dinner after work.
I watch him all day. The only time I have more myself is at night. Let Grandpa watch him.
Grandpa has plans of his own. Michael, I want you to do this. Everybody has been bending over backwards for you. You come home late. You sleep in to the middle of the day  Sam is always alone. You do exactly what you want... tonight do what I want for a change.
Okay?
Okay.
Sure.
Does that mean we are, or we aren't?
We are...
Then let's act like friends. Let's talk. I know this is a new place, and 
 If there's a girl, we could talk about her.
I'm tired now.
Wait a minute, kiddo.
Mom... please.
Max is coming for dinner, Michael. I'd like you to meet him.
Can't. Got plans of my own.
There's only three weeks left of summer, Michael. Things are going to change around here when school starts.
Gotta go, Mom.
I <u>didn't</u> invite you in this time!
Michael!...
Get out, Mom! Run!
Hi... I'm Laddie.
This is Michael.
I had the dream again about <u>them</u>.
Who, Laddie?
I know it was them, Star. I'm sure of it. He was working in the yard  hammering something. The yard was big with lots of grass. There was no boardwalk and no ocean. She was bringing him something cold to drink... and had red hair. I was there, too. And a dog  but I don't know its name. I was running and the dog was chasing me. Then I turned around and chased the dog. They were watching me. Drinking their cold drinks and laughing. And I was laughing, too.
Laddie... you can <u>still</u> remember. You can still remember home.
It was a dream, Star.
No, Laddie. It was a <u>memory</u>.
You didn't tell David?
No. Just you.
Promise me you'll keep it that way. You're not like the others, Laddie. You're like me. I can still remember, too.
You like Michael.
I like Michael.
You better not like him too much.
... And stay outta here.
You have a T.V.?
No, I just like to read the <u>T.V.</u> <u>Guide</u>. Read the <u>T.V. Guide</u>, you don't need a T.V...
Thanks, Grandpa...
Lots more where he came from.
Grandpa, stop doin' the Indian Walk!
Gotta keep in practice. It's a dyin' art.
Good!
Whatcha doin' over here?
Oh... I was just... having a look at your truck. What's all that wood in there for?
Been fixin' to build me fence one of these days. Bought all the materials, then put it off... for about ten years. Well, one more day won't hurt. Wanna go into town with me?
Great. I wanna get some new comics.
Are we havin' fun or what?
I thought we were goin' into town.
I hate goin' into town. That's about as close to town as I like to get.
Grandpa, the Widow Johnson called. She said to pick her up a seven instead of eight.
Did we have a date tonight?
I guess so. She said not to be late.
I better get cleaned up, then.
Lucy, you're the only woman I ever knew didn't improve her situation by getting divorced.
A big legal war wasn't going to improve anybody's situation. We've all been through enough. Besides I was raised better than that. Thanks for having us, Dad.
Ouch, my hair...
When I dressed like you do now, you threw me out of the house. I used to hate your short hair and your uptight suits... then I went ahead and married one... I went Yuppie and you became a hippie... Were still out of synch.
I can't sleep with the closet door open, either. Not even a crack. Your father doesn't mind, though. It could be wide open for all he cared. I think one of the reasons I divorced him was because he never believed... in the horror... of the <u>closet monster</u>!
Closet monster!?
Dad! Don't sneak up on people like that!
It's called the Indian walk. Walkin' without makin' a sound.
Smells good. When do we eat?
I told Max eight o'clock.
Max? You men we're having company again?
'Again'? Dad... you haven't had company in this house since Mom died eight years ago.
Right. An' now we're having company <u>again</u>. I'll take mine to go.
Of course not!
If you're telling the truth, it means we can save you.
David.
I don't want names! Just lead me to him. Where's their nest?
I'll take you there.
I said, <u>I'll take you there</u>. Nobody's going near Star without me.
Okay, okay.
Don't go out there! Stop him!
Sam, don't 
And these Archies should be over here with the Richie Rich's.
Where the hell are you from, Kryton???
Phoenix actually and these Bullwinkle and...
Or a vampire.
Are you guys sniffing old newsprint or something?
You think you're cool, don't you? You think you know what's really happening, don't you? Well, you don't know shit, buddy.
This is just our cover. We're dedicated to a higher purpose.
Now I get it... you're like those people in the airport trying to get you to give them money. You're part of a cult.
Bad breath? Long fingernails?
His fingernails are longer, but he always has bad breath.
Get yourself a good sharp stake and drive it through his heart.
I can't do that!
I have something to tell you guys. Not only is my own brother showing systems of being a vampire... but now I'm convinced my mother's <u>dating</u> one!
That is very probable. What's your reasoning?
Well... he only shows up at the store after dark. And today, his dog attacked my mom. Listen to this. From <u>Vampires</u> <u>Everywhere</u>... 'Vampires require a daytime protector  a <u>Guardian</u>  to watch over them as they sleep. For it is during the day that the vampire is most vulnerable. Since they hold sway over animals, <u>fierce dogs  the hounds of Hell</u> <u> are often employed for this</u> <u>purpose</u>.'
I wish they were vampires so I could nuke them in their hearts.
How do you know they're not?
He's not glowing.
Hit the lights again.
He's telling the truth! Aren't you, Michael?
To free you, we must destroy the leader of the vampires.
Just so you know: If you try to stop us, or vampout in any way, I'll stake you without thinking twice about it.
Chill out Edgar.
What's that smell!?
Vampires, my friend. Vampires.
I thought they'd be in coffins.
That's exactly what this place is. One great big coffin. Let's stake 'em.
Oh, no...
What?
There's a cop behind us.
No, Nanook! Quiet!
Your dog knows flesheaters when he smells 'em!
We don't have one yet. And we only have two and a half hours to come up with one.
What happens in tow and a half hours?
The dun goes down and they'll be comin' for us.
Where you going?
For a ride.
With him?
Yeah.
C'mon, Michael. I want to go.
No. Stick around.
Leave him alone.
Sorry, Michael. No hard feelings, huh? Here. Try these noodles.
Look.
You're almost one of us now, Michael.
You can't kill me, Star.
I will, David!
No, Star. Put it down. Put it down.
We still going?
Honda 250, huh?
That's right.
C'mon, Star. Climb on.
Star?...
I can't beat a Triumph.
You don't have to beat me, Michael. Just try to keep up.
We were gonna grab some food.
Good idea. Marko. We're hungry.
So how do you like those maggots, Michael?
What?...
You're eating maggots. How do they taste?
Don't! Stop!
Why? They're only noodles.
I'm my own man.
Get your bike. We're going someplace.
What's going' on?
What's goin' on, Marko?
Where is she?!
Hey, take it easy.
Where's Star, David?!
If you ever want to see Star again, then you better come with us.
What is this, David?
You're one of us, now  aren't you?
We've been aware of some very serious vampire activity in this town for a long time.
Santa Carla has become a haven for the undead.
As a matter of fact, we're almost certain that ghouls and werewolves occupy high positions at City Hall.
All together?
Zero.
Okay. Where's Nosferatu?
The Prince of Darkness.
The nightcrawler. The bloodsucker.
El Vampiro.
Should I run him through?
I've only got one question for you, and I want an honest answer. Have you taken any human victims yet?
Shut up!
We unraveled in the face of the enemy!
They pulled a mindscramble on us, man! It wasn't our fault! They opened their eyes and talked!
They're looking at us.
They're gonna book us.
Good.
That's just the way we like it.
Did you see that sucker burn?!
Man, we totally annihilated his nightstalkin' ass!
Two down and two to go.
<u>Four</u> to go.
Whattaya mean?
Those two we brought back with us. The girl and the kid. I don't trust 'em. I say we terminate 'em while we can.
You know what? You're absolutely right.
Death to all vampires!
Maximum bodycount.
We are awesome monsterbashers!
The meanest!
The baddest!
Just passing through Santa Carla?
No, I'm a resident as of today and you'll probably be seeing a lot of me... I've been collecting comic books all my life... perhaps you'd like to see my collection?
I don't like horror comics.
This one could save your life.
How do you like Santa Carla?
It's a pretty cool place if you're a Martian.
Yeah, you think we just work in a comic book store for our dad, huh?
This isn't a comic book store, right. It's a bakery.
We're fighters for Truth, Justice, and the American Way.
You better get some fresh air.
I don't like horror comics.
Think of this more as a survival manual... there's our number on the back, and pray that you never need to call us.
I'm gonna pray that I never need to call you.
All day.
Can't stand light?
Wears sunglasses in the <u>house</u>.
Salt sticks to the bottom of his feet.
Yeah.
He's a vampire alright.
Why not?
He's my brother.
You better get a garlic Tshirt, buddy.
They wouldn't be out in the daytime.
Exactly how many vampires have you actually destroyed?
<u>I'll</u> have to drive!
We don't ride with vampires.
Fine! Stay here!
Burn rubber does not mean <u>warp</u> <u>speed</u>!
We blew it, Edgar! We lost it!
They're gaining on us!
You gotta drive!
Well... we blew Plan A.
Time to activate Plan B.
What's Plan B?
The Professor's secretary says she found you in Barnhardt's room, making marks on his blackboard.
I was only trying to be helpful. He was having difficulty with a problem.
Oh, I see. He was having trouble and you were helping him out.
That's right.
I suppose you know that Barnhardt does a lot of secret work for the Army.
In this case the secret wouldn't be worth much. He doesn't know the answer himself.
But I suppose you know the answer.
It's really quite simple... The three body problem, you know.
Your name's Carpenter  that right? Any identification, Mr. Carpenter? Driver's license  social security number?
No  I'm afraid not.
Well, how do I know who you are?
You don't.
Okay  book him and get him fixed up. Looks like everybody's goin' nuts.
They would have killed this man?
People get hysterical enough, they do anything. Look, Mr. Carpenter  if you can't identify yourself, I got to send you over to the Army.
How long will that take?
They can tell right away. They've got a couple of doctors who saw this man in the hospital. Take him over to G2.
May I suggest that you call the Professor?
Get going, will you, Brady  before I get mad!
Is it worth anything?
I have never seen such a stone. Will you please tell me where it came from?
That's what I wanted you to tell me.
There are no diamonds like this  any place in the world.
You sure about that?
Would you like to sell it?
No  no, thanks.
I'd give you a very good price.
How dare you write on that blackboard! Do you realize the Professor has been working on that problem for weeks?
He'll catch on to it in no time now.
How did you get in here? And what do you want?
We came to see Professor Barnhardt.
Well, he's not here. And he won't be back till this evening. I think you'd better leave now. Unruffled, Klaatu turns to the desk and scribbles something on a scratch pad. He tears off the piece of paper and hands it to Hilda.
You might keep this. I think the professor will want to get in touch with me.
I don't know how to thank you.
I enjoyed every minute of it.
Everyone seems so
Jittery is the word.
Bobby's the only person I know who isn't  Jittery.
He has his homework to keep him occupied.
He's a fine boy, Mrs. Benson.
Naturally I think so.
Warm and friendly and intelligent You know  he's the only real friend I've made since I've been here.
Mr. Carpenter  this is none of my business, but  why did that detective come here last night?
Oh  they just wanted to ask me a few questions. Bobby and I tried to see Professor Barnhardt in the afternoon, but he wasn't in. Apparently they thought I was looking for secrets of some kind.
Excuse me. I was just going up to my room.
Goodnight, Mr. Carpenter.
Mr. Carpenter, I Goodnight.
Goodnight, my dear.
Oh  hello
May I see you for a minute?
I  I was Just going to lunch.
May I walk out with you?
I saw Bobby this morning before he went to school
Yes?
I want to know what he told you last night.
I  I didn't really pay much attention Bobby has such an active imagination.
Did you believe what he told you? I have a reason for asking this  a very important reason.
What is it you want?
Before I ask you to be honest with me, perhaps I should be completely honest with you
What happened?
What time is it?
Just twelve.
We'll be stuck here for a little while  about thirty minutes.
We could try pushing the other buttons. I have a flashlight in my purse.
It won't work.
Why not?
You see  the electricity's been neutralized  all over the world.
You hold great hope for this meeting.
I can see no other hope for your planet. If the meeting should fail, then I'm afraid there is no hope.
It must be twelvethirty.
Yes  Just exactly.
Where are you going now?
Back to the boardinghouse. I'll be safe there for the afternoon  and I can keep an eye on Bobby. He's the only other person who knows anything about
No, wait a minute  there's someone else.
Who?
Tom... He was there last night when Bobby told me what he saw.
I'm sure Barnhardt can arrange to hide me until the meeting.
Where is the meeting going to be?
At the ship.
It's only a few blocks to Barnhardt's.
I'm worried about Gort. I'm afraid of what he might do  if anything should happen to me.
Gort? But he's a robot. I mean  without you, what could he do?
There's no limit to what he could do. He could destroy the Earth. If anything should happen to me, you must go to Gort. You must give him this message: "Klaatu barada nikto." Please repeat that.
"Klaatu barada nikto."
Remember those words.
Hello.
I  I thought you were
I was.
You mean he has the power of life and death?
No  that is a power reserved to the Almighty Spirit.
This technique, in certain cases, can restimulate life for a limited period. It's a refinement of scientific principles known to your own people.
But how  how long?
How long will I live? That no one can say.
We'll miss you very much  Bobby and I. He won't have anyone to play with.
He'll have you  and Tom.
No. That's all finished.
I'm sorry.
I think I'm very lucky. You don't always get a chance to recognize a mistake before you make it.
We're all set. I picked up some sandwiches and put gas in the car. And the radio's still busted, so me can forget about the space man for today.
There's only one thing  I haven't been able to arrange for anyone to stay with Bobby. I don't suppose we could take him with us?
Well, we could
There's always somebody here, but today of course they've all got plans.
It was a wonderful day.
You still haven't answered my question.
You know how I feel, Tom. I just want to think it over.
The boss is leaving for Chicago tomorrow. If I could tell him I was getting married  with two dependents
You're a good salesman  but I've got to think about it.
A good insurance salesman wouldn't give you time to think.
Hello
You ready?
I will be in just a minute.
The picture starts at eightfifty.
I was talking to Mr. Carpenter.
I hope Mr. Carpenter won't think I'm intruding.
Oh, Tom, that was awful.
I'm sorry. I guess I'm just tired of hearing about Mr. Carpenter. I don't like the way he's attached himself to you and Bobby. After all, what do you know about him?
He's not there. But look what I found in his room
Is it real?
Looks real to me.
I wonder if we ought to
Bobby and I have had enough excitement for tonight.
You think it's all right for you to stay here?
I've got a good lock on my door. And Bobby's going to sleep in my room tonight.
I'm at Bleeker's getting an appraisal on that diamond. I thought we might have lunch together.
I  I'm afraid I can't  not right now. Can I talk to you later?. Yes, that'll be fine. 'Bye.
Tom  I've been trying to get you all afternoon
Come on in.
I've got some terrific news about your friend, Mr. Carpenter.
What about him?
Helen, he's the man from the space ship! I had that diamond checked at three different places. Nobody on earth's ever seen a stone like that! After what Bobby told us, that's enough for me. Why is it nobody knows anything about him? Why hasn't he got any money?
All right, Tom  it's true. I know it's true.
How do you know?
Never mind about that. You've got to promise me you won't say a word to anybody.
Are you crazy? After what happened today?
You don't understand. You don't realize how important it is.
Important? Of course it's important. The point is we can do something about it.
That's what I'm trying to tell you. We mustn't do anything about it. Believe me, Tom, I know what I'm talking about.
He's a menace to the whole world! It's our duty to turn him in.
But he isn't a menace! He told me what he came here for.
He told you... Don't be silly, honey  just because you like the guy. You realize what this'd mean for us? I'd be the biggest man in the country. I could write my own ticket.
Is that what you're thinking about?
Why not? Somebody's got to get rid of him.
Tom, you mustn't  ! You don't know what you're doing! It isn't just you and Mr. Carpenter. The rest of the world, is involved!
I don't care about the rest of the world!
You'll feel different when you see my picture in the papers.
I feel different right now.
You wait and see. You're going to marry a big hero!
I'm not going to marry anybody.
My name is Harley  Secretary to the President I've been told that you speak our language  that your name is Mr. Klaatu.
Just Klaatu.
The President asked me to convey his deepest apologies for what has happened. We all feel
Sit down, Mr. Harley.
I'm sure I don't have to point out that your arrival was something of a surprise. Had you been traveling long?
About five months  your months.
You must have come a long way.
About 250 million of your miles.
Naturally we're very curious to know where it is you come from.
From another planet. Let's just say that we're neighbors.
It's rather difficult for us to think of another planet as a neighbor.
I'm afraid, in the present situation you'll have to learn to think that way.
The present situation?
I mean the reasons for my coming here.
We're very curious about that, too. Would you care to talk about it?
I'd be glad to. Not now, of course  with you alone.
Perhaps you'd rather discuss it personally with the President
This is not a personal matter, Mr. Harley. It concerns all the people on your planet.
I  I'm not sure I understand
I want to meet with representatives from all the nations of the Earth.
I'm afraid that would be a little awkward. It's  it's completely without precedent. And there are practical considerations  the time involved  the enormous distances.
I traveled 250 million miles. What about your United Nations?
You know about the United Nations?
We've been monitoring your radio broadcasts for a good many years. That's how we learned your languages. Lately, we've been getting your television also.
You must have a rather strange impression of us.
The first two years of television we were convinced that all you did was wrestle.
I'm sure you recognize from our broad casts the evil forces that have produced the tension in our world. Surely you would agree
I am not concerned, Mr. Harley, with the internal affairs of your planet. I consider that to be your business  not mine.
I was only hoping to make you understand.
My mission here is not to solve your petty squabbles. It concerns the existence of every last creature who lives on Earth.
Perhaps if you could explain a little
I intend to explain. To all the nations  simultaneously. How do we proceed, Mr. Harley?
We could call a special meeting of the General Assembly... But of course the UN doesn't represent all of the nations.
Then why not a meeting of all the Chiefs of State?
Believe me, you don't understand. They wouldn't sit down at the same table.
I will make that recommendation to the President. I must tell you in all honesty that I'm extremely dubious about the results.
Apparently I'm not as cynical about Earth's people as you are.
I've been dealing in Earth's politics a good deal longer than you have. Goodnight, sir.
Good afternoon. I'm glad to see you up and around.
Thank you... Have you any news?
Not very good news, I'm afraid. The President accepted your suggestion and cabled the invitations for a meeting last night. Let me read you some of the replies. "The Premier wishes to inform the Government of the United States that it will be impossible for him to attend the meeting suggested by the President unless the meeting is held in Moscow." "The suggestion of the President regarding the possibility of a meeting in Moscow would be unacceptable to Her Majesty's Government at the present time. Representation could be sent only if the meeting were held in Washington." Well  there you have it.
I tried to make you understand. The suspicions  the jealousies  the mistrust Surely you realize that my government has done everything in its power
It's not your government I'm thinking about. It's your world.
Now that you understand the situation more clearly, perhaps you'd like to discuss the matter with the President
I will not speak to any one nation or group of nations. I don't intend to add my contribution to your childish jealousies and suspicions.
Our problems are very complex, Mr. Klaatu. You mustn't judge us too harshly.
I can judge only by what I see.
Your impatience is quite understandable.
I am impatient with stupidity. My people have learned to live without it.
I'm afraid my people haven't. I'm very sorry  I wish it were otherwise.
Before making any decisions, I think I should get out among your people  become familiar with the basis for these strange, unreasoning attitudes.
Under the circumstances I'm afraid that will be impossible.
The skeletal structure is completely normal. Same for the major organs  heart, liver, spleen, kidneys.
And the lungs are the same as ours. Must mean a similar atmosphere  similar pressure. How old do you think he is?
Oh, I'd say fortyfive.
He told me this morning when I examined him. He's seventyeight.
I don't believe it.
Their life expectancy is a hundred and thirty.
How does he explain that?
He says their medicine is that much more advanced. He was very nice about it. But he made me feel like a thirdclass witch doctor.
Are you an FBI man?
No  I'm afraid not.
Bobby  who's the greatest man in America today?
Gee  I don't know... The space man, I guess.
I was speaking of earth men. I meant the greatest philosopher  the greatest thinker.
Well  Professor Barnhardt, I guess. He's the greatest scientist in the world.
He lives here in Washington, doesn't he?
Sure. Right near where my mother works.
Where is that?
Department of Commerce. She's a secretary. They have a man they call the Secretary, but he isn't at all. My mother's a real secretary. Mr. Carpenter  now can we go see the space ship?
Boy, I'll bet he's strong. I bet he could knock down a whole building.
I shouldn't be at all surprised.
Gee, I'd like to get inside and see how it works. What do you think makes it go?
Well  atomic power, I would imagine.
I thought that was only for bombs.
No. It's for a lot of other things, too.
You think it can go faster than an F 36?
Yes  I think so.
Maybe four thousand miles an hour. And outside the Earth's atmosphere a good deal faster.
Gee! How could they make a landing?
Well  there are several ways to reduce landing speed. You see, the velocity
You think they'll ever find him?
I don't know, Bobby. I'm inclined to doubt it.
Mr. Carpenter  what does velocity mean?
Velocity is the time rate of change of position.
Bobby  I have an idea. Let's go see Professor Barnhardt and find out how he talks.
You're just kidding, aren't you?
Wouldn't you like to meet him?
Well, sure I would, but  Aw, I'll bet you'd be scared.
We can scare him more than he can scare us.
What does that mean?
It's a problem in celestial mechanics.
Bet he's the only one in the world knows the answer.
He doesn't know the answer. And he'll never get it that way.
Did all these people die in wars?
Sure. Didn't you ever hear of Arlington Cemetery?
No  I'm afraid not.
Mr. Carpenter"  you don't seem to know about anything.
I'll tell you, Bobby  I've been away for a long time. Very far away.
Is it different where you've been? Don't they have places like this?
They have cemeteries. But not like this one... You see, they don't have any wars.
Go to the movies.
All right.
No foolin'? Will you?
Certainly. Tell me, Bobby  do you have to have money to go there?
I've got some money. My mother gave me two dollars.
No  I want to take you to the movies. Do you think they'd accept these?
Gee  those look like diamonds!
Some places that's what people use for money. They're easy to carry  and they don't wear out.
Bet they're worth about a million dollars.
Would you give me your two dollars for a couple of them?
Well, sure, but
Let's not say anything to my mother about this, Mr. Carpenter.
Why not, Bobby?
She doesn't like me to steal from people.
Mrs. Benson  this is Mr. Brady.
Mr. Brady's a cop.
We certainly did.
We went to the movies  and we had ice cream cones  and we went to see Daddy
Aw, gee  we didn't finish our story.
We'll finish it tomorrow... Goodnight, Bobby.
Goodnight.
All you have to remember is, first find the common denominator  then subtract.
Thanks, Mr. Carpenter.
I'll say goodnight again.
Bobby  have you a flashlight?
Yeah  sure. It's a real Boy Scout flashlight.
What do you want it for, Mr. Carpenter?
Why  the light in my room went out. Thank you, Bobby. Goodnight.
Bet he is, Mom. Bet he's out looking for that space man.
I think we've all been hearing too much about "space men."
Can I help you look for the space man? Can I? I know what he looks like! He's got a square head  and, three great big eyes!
That's enough, Bobby. I think it's time you went to bed.
Hi Mom!
Hello, darling. Good evening, Mr. Carpenter.
Did you have a nice day, dear?
Boy, we had a swell time. Didn't we, Mr. Carpenter?
Come on, Bobby. Time to go to bed.
Mom  why does Mr. Carpenter have to go down to the police station?
I  I don't know, dear... Perhaps there's some mistake.
We sure had fun today. We saw the space ship and we went to see Professor Barnhardt  and
Professor Barnhardt.
Yeah, sure. Mom, do I have to go to school tomorrow?
Of course, dear.
Aw, gee, Mom  I had plans to play with Mr. Carpenter.
Go to bed, darling. You can finish that in the morning.
Okay.
Bobby  I think it would be better if we didn't see quite so much of Mr. Carpenter
Gee, why, Mom? He's my best friend... And he's awful good in arithmetic. He even helps Professor Barnhardt.
Did you and Mr. Carpenter really go to see Professor Barnhardt?
Sure we did! He wasn't there but we went to see him. And Mr. Carpenter showed him how to do his arithmetic.
Mom  is there something wrong with Mr. Carpenter?
What do you mean, dear?
I mean  on account of that policeman last night. You think he's a bank robber, maybe? Or a gangster?
No, dear, of course not. He's a very nice man. I Just think he might prefer to be left alone. Now you get to bed and forget about it. 'Night, darling.
Bobby! What are you doing up at this hour?
I couldn't go to sleep, Mom. I had to tell you!
Tell me what?
I followed Mr. Carpenter  right after you left  and, gee, Mom, where do you think he went? Right into the space ship!
Now, Bobby, just a minute
Honest, Mom, I saw him. It just opened up and he walked right in. And that great big iron man was moving around!
Bobby, you've been dreaming again.
No, I haven't, Mom. I promise you... I saw it!
Now think back hard. You didn't follow Mr. Carpenter at all, did you? You haven't even been out of the house.
Yes, I have!
You didn't really see the space ship. You just thought you did.
He gave these to you?
Well, not exactly. I gave him two dollars.
Gee, Mom, do you think maybe he's a diamond smuggler?
Come on, darling  we're going up to bed.
Oh, boy  can I, Mom?
Yes, dear. Come on now. Bobby, your shoes are soaking!
Yeah  the grass was kind of wet.
You wrote this?
It was a clumsy way to introduce myself  but I understand you're a difficult man to see. I thought you'd have the solution by this time.
Not yet. That's why I wanted to see you.
Yes  that will reproduce the first order terms. But what about the effect of the other terms?
Almost negligible... With variation of parameters, this is the answer.
How can you be so sure? Have you tested this theory?
I find it works well enough to get me from one planet to another. I understand you've called a meeting to study our space ship.
As though unsure of what he's heard) Yes  yes, I have.
My name is Klaatu. I spent two days at your Walter Reed Hospital. Room 309. My doctor's name was Major White  and I had a very attractive nurse called Ruth, who's getting married next Wednesday. If you are not interested  or if you intend to turn me over to your Army  we needn't waste any more time.
You have faith, Professor Barnhardt
It isn't faith that makes good science, Mr. Klaatu. Its curiosity. Sit down, please. I have several thousand questions to ask you.
I would like to explain something of my mission here.
That was my first question.
It was my intention to discuss this officially  with all the nations of the Earth  but I was not allowed the Opportunity. I have come to realize since that your mutual fears and suspicions are merely the normal reactions of a primitive society. We know from scientific observation that you have discovered a rudimentary kind of atomic energy. We also know that you are experimenting with rockets.
Yes  that is true.
In the hands of a mature civilization, these would not be considered weapons of aggression. But in the hands of your people We've observed your aggressive tendencies, and we don't trust you with such power.
If you mean that you are afraid of us
We want to be sure you don't make  let us say  an unfortunate mistake. We know the potentiality of these developments and we are disturbed to find them in the hands of children... You see, we've had atomic energy for five thousand of your years. We discarded instruments like this many centuries ago. So long as you were limited to fighting among yourselves  with your primitive tanks and planes  we were unconcerned. But soon you will apply atomic energy to space ships  and then you become a threat to the peace and security of other planets. That, of course, we cannot tolerate.
These other planets  do they have peace and security?
We had our atomic wars  thousands of years ago. After that we fought with bows and arrows. Then, slowly, we learned that fighting is no solution  that aggression leads to chaos.
We scientists understand this. Even we primitive scientists. What exactly is the nature of your mission, Mr. Klaatu?
I came here to warn you that, by threatening danger, your planet faces danger  very grave danger. I am prepared, however, to offer a solution.
Would you care to be more specific?
What I have to say must be said to all concerned. It is too important to be entrusted to any individual.
I gather that your efforts on the official level were not entirely successful.
I come to you as a last resort  and I confess that my patience is wearing thin. Must I take drastic action in order to get a hearing?
What  what sort of action do you mean?
Violent action  since that seems to be the only thing you people understand. Leveling the island of Manhattan, perhaps  or dropping the Rock of Gibraltar into the sea.
Would you be willing to meet with the group of scientists I am calling together?. Perhaps you could explain your mission to them, and they in turn could present it to their various peoples.
That's what I came to see you about.
It is not enough to have men of science. We scientists are too easily ignored  or misunderstood. We must get important men from every field. Educators  philosophers  church leaders  men of vision and imagination  the finest minds in the world.
I leave that in your hands.
You'd have no objection to revealing yourself at this meeting?
No  not at all.
What about your personal safety in the meantime? What about the Army  and the police?
My name is Carpenter and I'm a very earthy character living in a respectable boarding house.
I'm afraid I can't offer you any real protection. I have no influence in cases of interplanetary conspiracy.
I'm sure I'll be quite safe until the meeting.
One thing, Mr. Klaatu. Suppose this group should reject your proposals. What is the alternative?
I'm afraid you have no alternative. In such, a case the planet Earth would have to be eliminated.
Such power exists?
I assure you such power exists.
The people who came to the meeting must be made to realize this. They must understand what is at stake. You mentioned a demonstration of force
Yes.
Would such, a demonstration be possible before the meeting?
Yes  of course.
Something that would dramatize for them and for their people the seriousness of the situation. Something that would affect the entire planet.
That can easily be arranged.
I wouldn't want you to harm anybody  or destroy anything.
Why don't you leave it to me? I'll think of something.
Maybe a little demonstration.
Something dramatic  but not destructive. It's quite an interesting problem. Would day after tomorrow be all right? Say about noon?
You should see it, Professor Barnhardt! You should go out and see it for yourself!
Thanks  I'm enjoying it right here.
The whole city has stopped. People are running around like ants!
What a brilliant idea. I never would have thought of it.
What about the people who are coming to the meeting tonight? Have they all arrived?
I talked to most of them this morning... They were all very curious about the meeting.
Good. Did you speak to our friend Mr. Carpenter?
He'll be there at 8:30.
Tell me, Hilda  does all this frighten you  does it make you feel insecure?
Yes, sir  it certainly does!
That's good, Hilda. I'm glad.
Why are there so many?
Just hold on to me.
I want to take this to Lauren. She'd want it.
Honey. I just can't.
Stay in the car. I'll only take a second.
Erin. I know you think she's been talking to you.
It's not that. Really. It's just... now that he's gone, I think it's time.
Erin!
Watch out!
What were you yelling about?
This guy said he was a friend of Lauren's. He had like paint all over his face.
Are you ok?
What's that supposed to mean? He was right here. He was!
What is it?
The cop who found the knife in Corvis's car.
What? What is it?
Lauren called me that when we were little. Daisy. No one knew but us.
Honey. It's doesn't mean anything. It's not a message.
That guy in the cemetery today said he knew everything about Lauren.
It still doesn't mean...
He said he'd prove it.
I think I dropped an earring.
Looks like you have them both on.
You're in with them.
It's not what you think.
You killed her!
No.
Stay away from me! Stay away!
Erin. It wasn't supposed to happen.
They killed her because she found out.
About you.
About them. You've got to leave it alone.
Sweetheart...
Don't call me that! Don't call me anything!
I would never hurt you or Lauren. Never. Believe me.
I don't believe you.
Please. Come inside.
I'm never going back in that house again. Get away.
Anything wrong?
Let's hope not. License and registration please.
What's with your friend there?
She's... sick. Actually she never had Mai Tais before.
But you, you've had them.
Not tonight. Honest.
If you had a license, I bet I'd have seen it by now. How old are you? Fifteen?
Look, I'll tell you the truth. Jannie drove us and was supposed to drive us back, she has a license, but I mean... look at her.
You want me to walk a straight line?
I want you... to bend over.
Look, can I just call a cab?
What did I say?
Do you believe in ghosts, Nathan? Because there's a ghost threatening us.
You mean Alex.
I mean Lauren.
Because you never accepted that what happened to her was an accident.
You killed my daughter.
An accident, Nathan.
She was eighteen years old! There were four of them. They stabbed her fifty three times! Where's the fucking accident?! Huh?! Where is it?!
I watched her grow up. Just like you. I know how her mind worked. She kept snooping around because she was worried about you. What you'd gotten yourself into. So stop blaming me. And blame yourself.
I do. Every day.
Erin knows, doesn't she?
I thought we had an understanding. I thought we understood that discretion is paramount.
Yeah, we do.
Shut up.
Erlich gimping around in his goddamn hot rod is not discreet. I've got reporters asking me how much he made. I've got the entire force looking at this case now.
I know.
You know.
I know the guy leaves a sign.
Tommy Leonard. The eyewitness in the Corvis case.
Some hooker phoned it in. There was a riot at his apartment yesterday.
Guy dressed for Halloween?
Good for you. You do know something.
They botched the execution.
Could say that.
Christ. It was Corvis. Tommy Leonard was right.
Fucking crow.
Sign of the dead come back to life.
How about sign of a big black bird?
The dead can return, given sufficient motivation. And Corvis has that.
Cause if you're losing your mind, I got a right to know.
He's looking for something. Won't stop until he finds it. Sometimes the best way to get rid of someone is to let them have what they want.
Just don't believe everything you see.
Doubt is a motherfucker.
Give me a hand with this sack of shit.
Maybe we had a case of that here. Get me my kit.
You two are majorly demented. Anyone ever tell you that?
I was a friend of your sister's.
I know her friends.
That locket you're holding. You have one just like it.
Yeah, no kidding.
Your father gave them to both of you.
And he's right over there by the way. What did you do to your face?
Someone else did it.
You're a friend of the guy who killed her, aren't you? You almost sound like him.
He didn't kill her.
How do you know?
I know everything about your sister. I'll prove it to you.
Stay away from me! Dad! Dad!
Daisy. How did you know?
I told you, I knew your sister.
You killed that cop Dutton.
And another one. There. Erlich. Took a wrong turn.
I know who you are. That's why you paint your face. To hide.
I'm not hiding. I'm right here.
You killed Lauren! You killed her!
I've been shot, and stabbed and thrown from a car and none of it hurt. But what you're doing now, does. I don't know why.
My dad was right! He said you'd ruin her life.
No. Listen to me. Lauren found out something they didn't want her to know. This.
From the bonfire over there. Look at it.
No! Why are you haunting me?
Because you need to understand. And you need... to be careful.
This is where it happened. Right over here.
Yeah, I know.
Are you ok?
When Lauren was missing the police came to our house. They said they were looking for her, right? But I know now they had her, and the reason they brought her here and knew the could blame it on you...
No...
... is that I sent them here. I told them she came here sometimes. With her dirtball boyfriend. That's exactly what I said.
Erin. It's not your fault.
It's all my fault. Oh God. I wish I were dead.
No. You don't.
Yes I do, I really do.
This tree. Here's where it happened.
I don't want to see!
... took everything I ever cared about. Left me with nothing.
So you're going to kill him?
Have to find him first.
You know what Lauren and I were fighting about that night? She had a secret, wouldn't tell me...
My father.
All I knew, she was pulling away. It made me crazy.
I used to be so proud of him. My big deal daddy. And now, he's just a crook. Worse even. And the weird thing is...
I wish I could hate him but I can't. He said he'd never hurt either of us, and I know it's true and... I'm going back.
It's what Lauren would do.
It's ok, it's ok...
It's not. I can't take it.
Erin. Who?
I don't know. I found him lying there.
... it connects you to me...
No matter what happens... you're innocent... I promise...
In the woods you said you had nothing. But you wouldn't, and I wouldn't if there's some way you don't have to go. Please. At least not right away.
Erin. I'll always be with you.
I heard you were looking for this.
You're the guy killed Dutton.
I want you to think of me as the guy who killed you.
Fuck. Me.
What happened to your leg there Officer? Hunting accident?
Not my arm! What you fucking want?
I want Lauren. I want my life back. I want... to know why.
Why? Why's anything happen? It's all money, man. Money. The girl just got in the way.
The scar. Which of you has it?
Nobody.
Are you out of your fucking mind? We're going to die.
How can you die if you're already dead?
You're him. Corvis.
I was talking about you.
We're going to play a little game called "Who's got the Scar."
What Scar? What fucking scar?
AAAANK. That's not how we play the game.
You're him! You're Corvis! We fried your ass. You're dead, man!
Good thing in a situation like this.
Fucking Zombie.
The scar.
There is no scar. I'm telling you.
Sssshhh. She's resting.
Where the fuck did you come from?
Big bang, primordial ooze, divine hand of a benevolent creator? All possibilities. Although recent events have given me doubts about the benevolent creator.
You lied at my trial.
I don't know you, man.
Capital case nine nine dash C one one five. Alex Corvis. Exhibit A.
Hey. I said what I saw. Two kids arguing. A guy and a girl.
You said you saw me with this. I never held it until today.
What's your damage, man? Corvis hacked up that girl like a motherfucker.
One chance to tell the truth, Tommy. Who is the man with the scar? He planted this in my car.
There's no scar. Corvis made it up.
Wrong. Answer.
Who are you?
What did they give you?
They showed me pictures, what he did to her. Evidence. Said all I had to do was stand up there and not my head "yes."
What did they give you?
A job. Construction. Twelve an hour.
That was a fucking hollow point!
I guess it's true. Guns don't kill people...
Think maybe knives do?
Keep that thing away from me.
This is not just some "thing." It's A C zero zero five.
Fuck! What do you want?
A scar. On the arm. Of the man who planted this in Alex Corvis's car.
There's no scar, you freak. The Corvis kid made it up.
You killed her. I saw it.
Bitch killed herself when she shot a cop in the leg. If she' just acted like a girl nothing would have happened. So you're right, spooky. Happy?
What's been holding me together is the hope that maybe you do go someplace. And I'll be seeing her again soon. Only what will I say? That I was too stupid to find the guy who killed her? That he's down here laughing?
Tell her... we'll get him.
We won't.
Someday he'll surface and I'll get him for both of you. I promise. I'll find the guy with the scar.
Check and mate.
Dream on.
Two down. Two to go.
"Down?" Wait, don't tell me.
The cops from my trial. They killed Lauren. The whole thing was fixed.
You think I'm crazy.
I'm thinking... that explains a lot.
Lauren's father's involved. He bought the cops fancy cars, I don't know what else. It's a company called DELT. I think Lauren found out.
What do they do that they had to kill her?
I was hoping you'd find out.
Yeah. I sure will.
Leonard, Dutton, Erlich. They don't matter. I want the King.
We're getting there. Because in his socalled construction job, Tommy makes a daily delivery to a place called "The Hole."
The strip joint?
I believe they call it a connoisseur's club. Owned by DELT.
Where is it? This place?
I think we should get some support?
What? Call the police?
I hate that picture.
Where are they?
Can I get you something? A glass of water? A transfusion?
Where are they? Last chance.
Or what? You'll bleed all over my carpet?
around, or whatever the hell you're doing here. What are you doing here?
I'm looking for my friends.
See, I heard you were looking for some guy with a scar. How's that going? You find him? Yes? No?
How many innocent people did you leave dead back there?
You sent them. I had no choice.
Bullshit. You're a killer, that's all you are. A clown with a bird and a rising death toll. You think the world did you wrong?! You did the world wrong.
It was one thing her dad rejected you. But when she did you lost it.
You're wrong.
Yeah? I see doubt oozing out your arm. Where do people go when they kill their girlfriends?
Was that it? Well, ok.
I'm not dying for your goddamn illusions. You got that? You think you and your girlfriend had some rosy future ahead of you? Bullshit. She was already bored, why do you think she was looking around? You're nothing, Corvis! Less than nothing.
And why not? He's a good lad  bright and able.
Aye. He's a good lad. That's why I ask you, MacFarlane.
You think it'll spoil the boy, eh? Was I not assistant to Knox?
Aye 
Did it spoil me, Meg, my lass?
You're daft. What's Gray to me. He's only a man from whom I buy what I need when I need it  the rest is forgotten.
You may deny the devil, Toddy, but you'll not rid yourself of him by saying the devil is dead.
Nonsense. You're a fey creature with mad ideas. But you have a wildness that holds me to you, lass.
No great lady will ever take my place?
Crony indeed!
You can get out.
Fettes  where is Fettes?
I'll get him.
You're not going to Gray.
He must leave me alone.
You've been with Gray again.
Aye.
Was the paralysis immediate?
No, Doctor. She seemed to get better, then about six months later she began to complain of pain in her back 
How long after that was the paralysis complete?
Nearly a year.
Any attacks of pain since?
Yes, Doctor.
Is her pain sporadic or constant?
It comes at intervals. They used to be months apart  but they've been growing more frequent  much more frequent.
See here, child, when you have this pain in your back, where is it?
Child seems to take to the lad. What sort of an accident was it, Ma'am?
A carriage overturned. My husband was killed and Georgina was hurt.
How long ago?
Three years.
But can anything be done for her?
Perhaps  a delicate operation  an operation which has never been performed  but it could be performed. I'm sure it could be  I could incise the columna dorsi 
Believe me, Madame, if I were only a doctor, I would undertake this operation at once. But I'm more dominie than doctor  I've a school to run.
But, Doctor, surely in a case like this  a child  a little child who can never walk or run 
I regret it, Ma'am, but I have the responsibility of training thirty other doctors to attend a thousand children like your own.
There's nothing I can say for one small child?
I'm not heartless, Ma'am. I have every sympathy for you and for the little girl, but if I were to consent to every operation brought to me, I'd have no time for teaching  and that's a great responsibility upon me, Ma'am  a great responsibility.
I'm sorry, Doctor. Georgina's a good child  a brave child  you saw how she was during the operation  but if she can't move, she can't move.
But she must be able to move. Everything is in place.
She would if she could.
Then all my surgery is no good. There's something wrong with the child  something I don't know  something I can't define  can't diagnose. I can do nothing for her.
I presume you shall. This won't be my last visit here.
I want to speak to you alone. I saw something. I heard.
What did you hear?
I know 
You're welcome to my little nest, Joseph  is it not? That's right  you have something to say to me  something very private.
Yes.
Now that is very interesting  Take a chair, Joseph,
Can anyone hear what we say?
Only Brother.
I know that you kill people to sell bodies.
You say you've come here on your own account? No one knows you are here?
Give me money or I'll tell the police you murder the "subjects."
I have made you give me money, but you smile. Aren't you angry?
No, Joseph. I'm not angry  here  another glass of brandy I'll wager it's better than the doctor's.
You and I should work together.
You mean we would sell the bodies to the doctors together? Dig them up?
No digging Joseph. The churchyards are too well guarded. We will "Burke" them,
Burke them?
You are lately come to Scotland, Joseph?
I come from Lisbon.
But still you may have heard the peddlers of verse cry out their names on the streets.
"The ruffian dogs, the Hellish pair. The villain Burke, the meager Hare "
I never heard that song. But what did they do?
Eighteen persons they killed and sold the bodies to Dr. Knox at ten pounds for a large and eight pounds for a small. That's good business, Joseph.
But where did they get those people?
That was Hare's end. Ah, you should have seen him on the streets, when he saw some old beldam deep in drink how he cozened her!
"A goodday to you Madame Tosspot, and would you like a little glass of something before you take your rest? Come with me to my house and I'll make you my guest. You shall have quarts to drink if you like." Ah, how he cozened them.
We could do that. But when he had them there, then what?
"Nor did they handle axe or knife To take away their victim's life  No sooner done than in a chest They crammed their lately welcome guest."
I don't understand the song. Tell me plain how they did it.
I'll show you how it was done, Joseph.  I'll show you how they "Burked" them.
Come, Toddy  come. Sit down here with me.
Don't call me that confounded name.
Well, then, Doctor MacFarlane  although I've known a time, Toddy, when you liked the name. Aye, and many are dead now who called you by it; rough and wild ones they were, too. But come Toddy, sit down here with your young friend.
Mr. Fettes and I have professional matters to discuss.
Medicine? That'll keep. Sit down.
I will not have you use that name to me.
You will not have it?
You're a teacher, eh? Maybe you're afraid to be a doctor, Toddy.
Afraid of what?
Afraid you are not as good a doctor perhaps as you make out to be.
I am the best man for the job.
Why don't you do it then?
You? Why? Since when have you become the protector of little children?
I'm not concerned about the child, Toddy. It's you I'm thinking of, I'd like to see you prove that a lot of things I know haven't hurt Toddy MacFarlane any.
I'll not do it, Gray.
Oh, yes, you will. You'll do it to oblige Fettes and myself.
No.
Maybe there's some private reason between you and me which will make you  some long lost friend of ours. Say that you'll do it for me and my friend, Mr. Fettes, here.
It might be an interesting case.
That's a good boy, Toddy.
Toddy hates me.
Don't call me that confounded name, I tell you.
Hear him? Did you ever see the lads play knife?
Now that wasn't a friendly thing I heard, Toddy. Not at all friendly.
That has nothing to do with it. We've decided to do more lecturing and less dissection  it's better for the students  that's all there is to it.
You know what you want and don't want  so that's an end of business between us  but we'll still be friends, Toddy. I'll be dropping by to see you and Meg once in a while  for auld lang syne, you know.
I suppose we can't prevent that, Gray   for auld lang syne.
Oh, it's you, Gray. Well, come in. Sit down. Have a glass with me.
You're uncommon friendly tonight, Toddy. More like the old days.
You know something about the human body, Gray.
I've had some experience.
Then you can understand that the backbone is a lot of little blocks and those little blocks are all held together, so that it works like that whip of yours. You know that, don't you?
I've never had it all explained that way to me by so learned a man.
I set those blocks together, patched the muscles. I put the nerves where they should be  I did it and I did it right  and she won't walk 
Oh, it's the bit of a girl Fettes was talking about.
The same. Look here, Gray 
You can't build life like you put together blocks, Toddy.
What are you talking about? I am an anatomist. I know the body. I know how it works.
And you're a fool, Toddy  and no doctor. It's only the dead ones that you know.
I am a doctor. I teach medicine.
Like Knox taught you? Like I taught you? In cellars and graveyards? Did Knox teach you what makes the blood flow?
The heart pumps it.
Did he tell you how thoughts come and how they go and why things are remembered and forgot?
The nerve centers  the brain 
But what makes a thought start?
In the brain, I tell you. I know.
You don't know and you'll never know or understand, Toddy. Not from me or from Knox would you learn those things. Look 
I am a doctor  a good doctor. I could make her walk, but she won't  she won't 
Here, have another glass, MacFarlane. I'll take you home and we'll be friends again  now that you know that you're Knox's man and my friend  aye, forever.
Why should I be afraid of you? What are you holding over me?
I'll tell you what, Toddy. It's because I ran down the streets with the mud and the stones around my ears and the mob yelling for my blood. It's because you were afraid to face it  and you're still afraid.
No, I'm not afraid. Tell! Shout it from the housetops! And remember this  they hanged Burke  they mobbed Hare  but Dr. Knox is living like a gentleman in London.
Aye, Toddy, there is something in what you say.
There is much in what I say, Gray, and if you have any regard for your neck you'll leave now and stay away from my house, my school, and from me.
I have no wish for a rope cravat. I've never liked the smell of hemp, so I'll bid you good night, Doctor MacFarlane.
What are you going here? Have I not told you 
Would you grudge me a glass with my old crony, Meg?
I brought you something tonight, MacFarlane  an interesting specimen  in very good condition.
I've ordered nothing from you.
This is a gift.
I take no gifts from you.
This is a gift you'll not return.
Get out of here!
Wait, Toddy. That's not hospitable. I want to discuss business.
You are not to set foot in here again, Gray, for business or any other reason. And you're going out now!
Gray, I must rid myself of you  you've become a cancer  a malignant, evil cancer  rotting my mind.
So, Toddy, you've made me a disease, eh?
I can't understand your hurt to me  but I must cut you out.
Surely you are not threatening an old friend, Toddy.
We have never been friends.
Have another glass of something good, Toddy.
I've drunk enough tonight.
Another little drop'll never do you any harm.
You're getting old, Gray, and it's a hard life driving a cab through these wet and windy streets of Edinburgh 
I have other means of sustenance.
The Resurrection business? That may end sooner than you think. New laws may come.
What I was going to say is this  wouldn't you be more comfortable at Leith in a neat little house?
Would you bribe me to leave you be?
I would make you rich.
It wouldn't be half so much fun for me. Toddy, as to have you come here and beg 
Beg  beg of you! You crawling graveyard rat!
Well then  I beg you  I beseech you 
But then I wouldn't have the fun of having you come here and beg again, Toddy.
But why, Gray? Why?
Because it would be a hurt to me to see you no more, Toddy. You're a pleasure to me.
A pleasure to torment me?
No  a pride to know that I can force you to my will. I'm a small man  a humble man  and being poor, I've had to do much that I did not want to do. But so long as the great Dr. MacFarlane jumps at my whistle, that long am I a man  and if I have not that, I have nothing. Then I am only a cabman and a graverobber.
He'll not leave the grave  not since Wednesday last when we buried the lad.
Your son, ma'am? He must have been a fine boy for the wee dog to love him so.
Not much danger here, ma'am, I wouldn't think  right here in the heart of Edinburgh.
They're uncommon bold, the grave robbers  and the daft doctors who drive them on.
I'm by way of being a medical myself.
A doctor?
A student. I'm studying under Dr. MacFarlane  that is, I've been studying until today 
Are you a doctor, too?
Not yet.
You'll be a good doctor. I know all about doctors.
What you really want to ask me is about my back, isn't it  about where it hurts?
Why, yes.
Well 
Hear him?
The white horse. The horse that is going to greet me when he sees me.
An old acquaintance, eh?
Why do you want the white horse to bid you "goodday"?
He was a nice horse.
Maybe there's another reason. Maybe you haven't friends enough. Could that be it, Georgina?
Of course  I don't have friends. That's because I can't walk. I try to make myself used to it.
One shouldn't get used to the wrong things, Georgina. You want to walk and run and play.
Aye, but I still wonder how much.
I want it 
But you'll have to stand great pain, Georgina. Greater pain than you ever dreamed of in the worst time of your sickness. Do you want it that much?
Don't you want to find the white horse, Georgina? You can't find him from a wheelchair. You have to walk and run to find him.
I can't.
I thought this was a school day.
I am not at the school anymore. I left last night.
You'll not need that again, Georgina.
I wanted to see the white horse 
Excuse me, Dr. MacFarlane 
Come in, boy  come in.
But, Doctor, I only wanted to speak to you 
Come  it's a chance to try out your bedside manner, Fettes. Take a look at the child.
Dr. MacFarlane 
Excuse me.
I'm afraid I'll have to give up medicine, Dr. MacFarlane.
You're made for a doctor, young man!
I'm afraid I have to, sir. You see, my father is vicar at Thrums  it's a small parish  not much of a living 
You're too good a man, Fettes  I'll not let you quit. I'll make an assistant of you  that'll pay your keep and your tuition, too 
I thought only the best students were made assistants.
Well? And are you not a good student?
But Richardson?
Richardson is a fine student. He's got a glib tongue, but you'll be a better doctor, Fettes. Come along now 
You know how we get the specimens we use for dissection?
From the Municipal Council  they're the bodies of paupers 
I don't think I can go on, sir.
What the devil do you mean? You have your lodgings, a certain stipend  I thought I had arranged everything for you 
I saw the woman whose son's body was delivered last night.
And that's why you don't want to be a doctor, Fettes?
Not if I have to be party to things like that, Dr. MacFarlane.
But this woman  and her son 
I'm sorry for the woman, Fettes. But her son might be alive today had more doctors been given the opportunity to work on more human specimens. As for me, Fettes, I let no man stop me when I know I'm right  when I know that I need those lifeless subjects for my student's enlightenment and for my own knowledge. And if you're a real man and want to be a good doctor, you'll see it as I see it.
Dr. MacFarlane  you remember the lady who came to see you yesterday  the lady with the little girl?
I remember her.
She came again today. She wanted me to ask you if you would not break your rule and operate. She feels you are her only hope.
So she told me. I'm a teacher  not a practitioner.
It was about last night I wanted to talk to you  about the operation on the little Marsh girl.
You're a man of the world, Fettes, you wouldn't hold me to promise given in drink.
But I  well, you see, sir, I met Mrs. Marsh and told her.
Really, Fettes, you irk me with your lack of understanding.
But you did promise.
Look here, Fettes. Not I nor anyone else knows enough about the spinal column and its intricacies to insure success in such an operation. I would have to study the matter. Have we any "subjects"?
Wilmont used up the last spinal section.
You see, it is completely out of the question.
Yes, I suppose so.
Now you run off and see that pretty Mrs. Marsh and explain to her.
Every street singer with a cracked voice gives tongue to that one.
This girl was beautiful  a wild lassie from the Highlands.
Well 
Gray killed her.
We can't be sure of that.
I am sure. I mean to report it. It's like Burke and Hare all over again.
I wouldn't do that, Fettes. I wouldn't report it.
Grave robbing is one thing  this is murder.
I don't know that  neither do you. This subject may have been an epileptic  thrown a fit  fallen out of bed  cracked her skull and killed herself  there is everything explained  the bruise on her head 
I can't believe that.
Believe it or not. It's best for you to pretend that you do. After all, it was you who ordered this specimen, received it here, and paid for it. That makes you a party to murder.
But, I didn't ask him to kill.
Who would believe that? And you know, someone else might recognize her. She was as well known as the Castle Rock.
Here is where you must watch closely, gentleman  closely  it is the very heart of the matter 
Wait, Doctor  wait! The child's fainting.
She's unconscious.
Pulse?
I just saw Gray. What was he laughing at?
He has his own idea of a joke. Perhaps his horse tickled him in the ribs.
I've just been to see Mrs. Marsh. Georgina is doing splendidly. The incision has healed  clean and fine  but she doesn't seem to have any desire to walk.
When she's ready you bring her to me  I'll show her how.
Dr. MacFarlane, I wonder if you know what happiness you've brought those people.
That's only our duty, Fettes  that's the end at which we aim with all this nasty business.
I suppose one must pass through this purgatory to the heaven of being a good doctor.
That's the way of it, Fettes. You bring the lassie to me.
You can't  can't! Stop trying to bribe her with childishness about white horses. Let the child stand and walk  her spine's all right. I know it's all right.
But she must want to stand. She must want to walk.
Confound me, the child's a cripple, of course she wants to walk. Child, I say to you get up out of that chair and walk.
Fettes, the more things are wrong, the more we must act as if everything were right. You must do with Joseph as you did with, the street singer  complete dissection  a proper entry in the book 
No.
What do you mean, Fettes?
I'll have no more to do with it. I'll not put my neck into the noose, not even for your sake, Dr. MacFarlane.
Don't be a fool. One can't begin and then stop  and because that entry of the girl's body is in your hand, you'll do as I say. As for me, I'll tend to Gray.
What's that you say?
The little girl  she couldn't walk far  the muscles are too weak  but she did stand and she took a step or two.
I know it  I know it  The moment I was rid of him 
What?
Gray  I'm rid of him 
See that, Fettes?
A burial party  poor people  it's hard to bury a loved one on a rainy day when the churchyard is so cold and lonely.
Glencorse  that's a lonely cemetery, Fettes, not a soul around for miles.
They'll be thinking of that, too.
Tosh! Fettes! It's not their grief I'm worrying about  I'm talking of our own end 
You've no thought of going there?
Did you think Gray was the only one who could handle a mattock and shovel? I've had some practice in the art.
You couldn't do that, Doctor.
I pass up no opportunities, I've a whole course of lectures in mind for you fellows. We'll need subjects to demonstrate. Come along.
No.
Why not? I must have subjects. It's the only way I can teach. It's the only way you can learn. The stupidity of the people the idiocy of their laws will not stop no  nor will they force me to deal with such reptilian creatures as Gray. We can do our own dirty work  and we must.
Where shall we put it? In the back?
No room there. We'll have to set it between us.
This is not a woman!
It was a woman when we put her in.
Hold that lamp up  I must see her face.
You must leave this house.
I can't do that  you heard MacFarlane.
Save yourself. Master Fettes look at MacFarlane and be warned.
He's a great doctor  a great man 
Is it a great man whom Gray can order to his bidding? Is it a great man who for very shame dare not acknowledge his own wife so that I must play maidservant for the world's sake and his success?
He could have been a great man  a good man and a fine doctor, but there was always the shame of the old life and the old ways to hold him back  and always Gray  Gray to hound him to his death.
You're overexcited, Mistress Cameron.
I'm cold as ice.
But Gray's only a cab driver  a Resurrection Man who robs graves to make a bit of money now and again.
If he were only that. The man's evil himself. Some day you'll know him as MacFarlane knows him  for MacFarlane he was to Knox as you are to him. That brought him close to Gray, he roistered with him and drank with him. Aye, and Gray even brought him to my door and my love. There is all that between them and more  Burke and Hare and Knox 
But that's long since. Gray can't threaten him with that.
Gray has no need to threaten. You remember the trial?
I heard my parents speak of it in Thrums. It was a famous case.
And did you hear them speak of the porter who testified against Burke?
Aye.
They did not tell you how that porter cried out in the witness box when the Kings Counselor pressed him hard  how he cried out that he was shielding a gentleman of consequence.
That porter was Gray and the gentleman of consequence who couldn't swallow the shame of it  who took my last paltry savings to hire Gray 
MacFarlane
Listen to me, Fettes, I'm one part befuddled with drink, one part overheels in love with MacFarlane, and one part fey. You're a lowlander, Fettes, and you have no way of knowing what we Highlanders call the second sight.
I've heard of it.
It's a gift to my people  and I see MacFarlane and Gray the pit yawns for them and the flames  and I would have you away from them and safe out of the torment.
He's not home.
Where can I find him?
You don't went to find him. Your news will keep until I tell him.
But I must tell him  he must know of it. Please  tell me where he is.
There's no standing between a fool and his folly. If you must babble your news to him he's at the Fisherman's Tryst. It's the inn at Pennycuik. You can use MacFarlane's horse and gig to get there. He'll welcome the ride back.
At Pennycuik. I know the inn. I can be there in an hour.
And back with MacFarlane and all that he stands for the next day.
You asked to see me, ma'am?
I want you to help my little girl.
I'm only a student.
Georgina told me how kind you were to her. It gave me hope you might intercede for us with Dr. MacFarlane.
I don't know that I can do that, Mrs. Marsh.
Did he tell you about Georgina?
I didn't mean it that way. I meant only that I am not in a position to ask favors.
Ask this one favor 
Of course I will.
You have his promise, then?
Yes.
 pain  and shock. She's brave enough, but I don't know about myself. Now that it seems so close, I wonder if I dare trust my child into any but God's hands. Maybe He knows best.
Ma'am, is you'll allow me, I'd like to give you cause for courage  Dr. MacFarlane is a great man  I think he's the greatest man in medicine. God would not have given him such gifts if they were not meant for Georgina's cure.
Good morning, Mrs. Marsh.
Good morning, Mr. Fettes.
It's not because of Georgina  because of Dr. MacFarlane's failure?
It's not the failure. I feel that MacFarlane has taught me nothing. He taught me the mathematics of anatomy but he couldn't teach me the poetry of medicine.
Even so, I could never think of going on  I've got to find some other profession.
It is a pity.
I'm Donald Fettes.
I'm very pleased to know you, Master Fettes.
Mr. Gray?
That's right. Gray, the cabman. I've had a bit of dealing with MacFarlane in the past, you know.
Dr. MacFarlane said I should pay you 
Of course  it's the soul of the business  the pay 
I fear he may have to.
But can't you give me any idea?
How could I? I will do my best. After all, you see, I am financially interested.
There, Master Fettes. Sooner than we had expected. A stoke of luck one might say.
Good.
Oh, you'll have ample opportunity  ample  Good morning, Dr. Fettes.
Good morning.
I'm going out that way, lady. You can follow me.
Then let's go. Now!
I haven't finished my drink.
Put on your coats! Do you want to get trapped here?
Were the Santa Rosa police at your school today? Are you coming?
Take it easy, lady. There isn't a bird anywhere in sight.
Something like this happened in Santa Cruz last year. The town was covered with seagulls.
Can't you please finish your drink?
I'm leaving! Are you coming?
All right, all right! Hope you figure this out, folks.
How many gulls did you count, Mrs. Bundy?
Which gulls, Mr. Sholes? There are several varieties.
The ones that've been raising the devil with my fishing boats.
Probably herring gulls. They arrive in November, you know, and don't migrate North again until March or...
Actually, those gulls must have been after the fish.
Of course.
Makes a lot more sense than... well, an attack.
Of course it does. If we believe that birds are attacking, why... why next we'll believe that grasshoppers and cockroaches are capable of...
Scotch, light on the water.
You and Mr. Sholes seem to be implying as much.
Birds?
Yeah, birds. All they do is make a mess of everything. Who needs them?
We need them.
Not if they're starting a war.
They are incapable of organized warfare!
Then fight back. Get yourselves guns and wipe them off the face of the earth.
That would hardly be possible.
Kill them all. Get rid of them. Messy animals.
...probably contain more than a hundred billion birds!
That's right, sir, I recall it. A large flock of seagulls got lost in a fog and headed in for the town, where all the lights were.
They made some mess, too, smashing into houses and everything. They always make a mess. We're better off without them.
The point is that no one seemed to get upset about it. They were gone the next morning, just as if nothing at all had happened. Poor things.
Sebastian, I'm not an alarmist.
No one ever said you were, Mitch.
I think we're in trouble. I don't know how or why this started, but I know it's here and I know we'd be crazy to ignore it.
Look, Mitch, even if this is true, even if all the birds...
Do you believe it's true, Sebastian?
No. I don't, Mitch. Because I can't see any reason for it.
It's happening. Isn't that a good enough reason?
I like Bodega Bay as well as any man. If I thought...
Then help me, Sebastian. You're an important man in this town. If you'll help, the rest will.
Help how? What do you want to do?
I'm not sure, but...
If you don't even know what you want to do...
I only know we've got to drive them away from town  before they drive us away.
How?
Mrs. Bundy, you said something about Santa Cruz. About seagulls getting lost in the fog, and heading in for the lights.
How do you plan to do that?
With smoke.
How can we go on living here if we blanket the town with smoke?
Can we go on living here otherwise?
No, the birds didn't attack until the children were outside the school. Crows, I think. I don't know, Daddy. Is there a difference between crows and blackbirds?
There is very definitely a difference, Miss.
They're different, Daddy. Thank you. I think these were crows. Yes, hundreds of them. Yes, they attacked the children, attacked them. Daddy, a little girl was sent to the hospital in Santa Rosa. Well, all right, but you act as if I'm... all right, all right. No, I can't come home now. I just can't, Daddy. How is it there? I mean... are there birds? In the sky? But no trouble. Well, I hope... I don't know when. I simply can't leave now. Tell Mother not to worry. All right, Daddy, goodby.
They're both perching birds, of course, but of quite different species. The crow is brachyrhynchos. The blackbird is cyanocephalus.
Thank you. Do you know Dan Fawcett's number?
I just came from the school, madam. I don't know about their brain pans but...
Birds are not aggressive creatures, Miss. They bring beauty to the world. It is mankind, rather, who...
Hello, may I speak to Mitch Brenner, please? Yes, I'll wait.
...insist on making it difficult for life to survive on this planet. If it weren't for birds...
Yes, all right, I'll wait for you. Goodby.
I hardly think a few birds are going to bring about the end of the world.
These weren't a few birds.
The gulls were after your fish, Mr. Sholes. Really, let's be logical about this.
What were the crows after at the school?
What do you think they were after, Miss...?
Daniels. I think they were after the children.
For what purpose?
To... To kill them.
I don't know why.
I thought not. Birds have been on this planet since archaeopteryx, Miss Daniels; a hundred and twenty million years ago!
Doesn't it seem odd that they'd wait all that time to start a... a war against humanity?
No one called it a war!
Have you ever seen a jay protecting a nest?
I have seen jays doing everything it is conceivable for jays to do. Ornithology happens to be my avocation, Miss Daniels. You're talking about preservation of the species, a hen protecting her young. There's a vast difference between...
Maybe they're all protecting the species. Maybe they're tired of being shot at and roasted in ovens and...
Are you discussing gamebirds now? All birds are not gamebirds, you know.
I don't know anything about birds except that they're attacking this town.
And what? Vultures? Hawks? Eagles?
Maybe! Is it impossible?
Yes. I have never known birds of different species to flock together. The very concept is unimaginable. Why if that happened, we wouldn't have a chance. How could we possible hope to fight them?
Hello, Mrs. MacGruder, have you ever seen so many gulls?
Hello, Miss Daniels.
What do you suppose it is?
I was hoping you'd be a little late, Miss Daniels. You see, he hasn't arrived yet.
You said three o'clock.
I know. Oh, I know. I've been calling all morning. Oh, you have no idea. Miss Daniels, they're so difficult to get, really they are. We get them from India, you know, when they're just little chicks, and then we have to...
Well, this one won't be a chick, will he?
Certainly not. Oh, no. Certainly not. This will be a full grown myna bird. Full grown.
And he'll talk?
Well, yes, he'll talk. Well, no, no. You'll have to teach him to talk.
Yes.
Yes. Oh my, I suppose I should call them again. They said three o'clock. Maybe it's the traffic. I'll call. Would you mind waiting?
I think maybe you'd better deliver him. Let me give you my address.
Oh. Oh, well, all right.
I'm sure they're on the way, though. Could I just call?
Well, all right, but...
There we are!
Oh, good! Oh, wonderful.
That... that... who was that?
I have no idea.
Have you got a pencil?
What? Oh, yes, certainly.
They said the myna bird would be here later this afternoon. If you'd care to come back...
No, you'd better send him. May I use your phone?
Yes, certainly.
Do you have any lovebirds?
No, not in the shop. But I can order them for you.
How soon?
Well... well, how soon would you want them?
Immediately. Is this the Daily News? Melanie Daniels. Would you get me the city desk, please?
I might be able to have them by tomorrow morning. Would that be all right?
That would be just fine. Hello, Charlie, this is Melanie. I want you to do a favor for me. No, this is a small one. Pressure you? Why, Charlie darling, would I try to pressure you? Will you call the Department of Motor Vehicles for me and find out who owns this license plate? DKQ dash one seven six. Yes, a California plate. No, I'll stop up there in a little while. Is daddy in his office? Oh. No, no, I don't want to break in on a meeting. Just tell him I'll see him later. Thank you, Charlie.
I wonder if you could help me.
What?
I said I wonder if you could help me.
Yes, what was it you were looking for, sir?
Lovebirds.
Lovebirds, sir?
Yes. I understand there are different varieties, it that true?
Well... yes, sir, there are.
These are for my sister... her birthday you see. As she'll be eleven and... well, frankly, I wouldn't want a pair of birds that were too demonstrative.
I understand completely, sir.
As the same time, I wouldn't want birds that were aloof, either.
No, of course not.
Do you have a pair that are just friendly?
I think so, sir. Now then, let me see.
Aren't these lovebirds?
No, sir, those are... redbirds.
The sign says strawberry finches.
Yes, we call them that too. Ahhh, here we are, Lovebirds...
Those are canaries, Miss. Doesn't this make you feel awful?
Doesn't what make me...?
All these innocent little creatures caged up like this?
Well, we can't just let them fly around the shop, you know.
I suppose not. Is there an ornithological reason for keeping them in separate cages?
Oh, certainly. It's to protect the species.
I imagine that's very important. Especially during the moulting season.
Yes, that's a particularly dangerous time.
Are they moulting now?
Some of them are.
How can you tell?
Well... they get a sort of hangdog expression.
Yes, I see. About those lovebirds, Miss...
Are you sure you wouldn't like to see a canary instead? We have some very nice canaries this week.
All right. She smiles back.
What did you say?
I was merely drawing a parallel, Miss Daniels.
But how... how do you know my name?
A little birdie told me. Good day, Miss Daniels. Madam.
Hey, wait a minute!
I don't know you.
Ahhh, but I know you.
How?
We met in court.
We never met in court or anyplace else.
That's true. I'll rephrase it. I saw you in court.
When?
Do you remember one of your practical jokes that resulted in the smashing of a plate glass window?
I didn't break that window!
No, but your little prank did. The judge should have put you behind bars!
What are you? A policeman?
I simply believe in the law, Miss Daniels, and I'm not too keen on practical jokers.
What do you call your lovebird story if not a practical...
Ahhh, but I really do want those birds.
You knew I didn't work here. You deliberately...
Right. I recognized you when I came in. I thought you might like to know what it felt like to be on the other end of a gag. What do you think of that, Miss Daniels?
I think you're a louse.
I am. Good day. Madam.
And I'm glad you didn't get your lovebirds!
I'll find something else. See you in court some day.
That was the damndest thing I ever saw.
What made it...
It deliberately came down at you  you're bleeding...
What's that?
Just some peroxide. I want to clean out the cut.
So you're a lawyer.
That's right. What are you doing in Bodega Bay?
Do you practice here?
No, San Francisco. What are you...?
What kind of law?
Criminal.
Is that why you'd like to see everyone behind bars?
Not everyone, Miss Daniels.
Only violators and practical jokers.
Ouch!
I'm sorry. What are you doing up here?
Didn't you see the lovebirds?
You came all the way up here to bring me those birds?
To bring your sister those birds. You said it was her birthday. Besides, I was coming up anyway.
What for?
To see a friend of mine. Will you please be careful?
I'm sorry. Who's your friend?
Why...
Yes?
Annie. Annie Hayworth.
Well, well, small world. Annie Hayworth.
Yes.
How do you know Annie?
We... we went to school together. College.
Did you! Imagine that! How long will you be staying?
Just a few... just a day or two... the weekend.
I think we'll have to shave the hair. Deke, have you got a razor?
Oh, no you don't!
It's still bleeding a little. Here, let me put this on.
So you came up to see Annie, huh?
Yes.
I don't believe you. I think you came up to see me.
Why would I want to see you, of all people?
I don't know. But it seems to me you must have gone to a lot of trouble to find out who I was, and where I lived and...
It was no trouble at all. I simply called my father's paper. Besides, I was coming up here anyway, I already told you...
You like me, huh?
I loathe you. You have no manners. And you're arrogant and conceited and... I wrote you a letter about it, in fact, but I tore it up.
What did it say?
None of your business. Am I still bleeding?
Can't see a thing.
I can't say I like your seagulls much, either. I come all the way up here to...
But you were coming up anyway, remember?
I was! And all I get for my pains is a... a... a hole in the head!
Right next to the one you already had.
Look, Mr. Brenner...
After all, you did go to the trouble of bringing up those birds.
I'm sorry. I couldn't possibly...
Yes, but...
You are, aren't you?
Certainly, but...
Then it's settled. What time is dinner, Mother?
With... with Annie, of course.
Of course, how stupid of me. A quarter to seven, will that be all right?
Annie... Annie may have made other plans. I'll have to see. Besides, I can find my own way.
You're sure now? You won't hire a boat or anything?
I'm sure.
Seven o'clock then.
Maybe.
Hi. Annie had no plans, huh? I'm glad you came. Are you hungry?
Famished.
Dinner's just about ready. We were out back looking at the chickens. Something seems to be wrong with them.
Why did he shoot her?
He was watching a ball game on television.
What?
His wife changed the channel.
You'll be able to find your way back, won't you?
Oh, yes.
Will I be seeing you again?
San Francisco's a long way from here.
I'm in San Francisco five days a week. With a lot of time on my hands. I'd like to see you. Maybe we could go swimming or something. Mother tells me you like to swim.
How does Mother know what I like to do?
I guess she and I read the same gossip columns.
Oh. That. Rome.
Mmmm. I like to swim. We might get along very...
In case you're interested, I was pushed into that fountain.
Without any clothes on?
With all my clothes on! The newspaper that ran the story happens to be a rival of my father's paper. Anything they said...
You were just a poor, innocent victim of circumstance, huh?
I'm neither poor nor innocent, but the truth of that particular...
The truth is you were running around with a pretty wild crowd...
Yes, but...
...who didn't much care for propriety or convention or...
Yes.
...the opinions of others, and you went right along with them, isn't that the truth?
Yes, that's the truth. But I was pushed into that fountain, and that's the truth, too.
Sure. Do you really know Annie Hayworth?
No. At least, I didn't until I came up here.
So you didn't go to school together.
No.
And you didn't come up here to see her.
No.
You were lying.
Yes, I was lying.
Did you really write a letter to me? Or was that a lie, too?
I wrote the letter.
What did it say?
It said, "Dear Mr. Brenner, I think you need those lovebirds, after all. They may help your personality." That's what it said.
But you tore it up.
Yes.
Why?
Because it seemed stupid and foolish.
Like jumping into a fountain in Rome!
I told you what happened in Rome!
Do you expect me to believe...?
I don't give a damn what you believe!
I'd still like to see you.
Why?
I think it could be fun.
That might have been good enough in Rome last summer. But it's not good enough now.
It is for me.
But not for me.
What do you want ?
I thought you knew! I want to go through life laughing and beautiful and jumping into fountains naked! Good night!
I really shouldn't have any more. I'm a little tipsy already.
I'm trying to get you to stay for dinner. We're going to have a lot of roast left over.
I couldn't possibly. I have to get back.
Cheers.
Cheers.
What's in this? Nitroglycerin?
Why do you have to rush off? What's so important in San Francisco?
Well... I have to get to work tomorrow morning, for one thing.
You have a job?
I have several jobs.
What do you do?
I do different things on different days.
Like what?
On Mondays and Wednesdays, I work for the Travelers' Aid. At the airport.
Helping travelers.
Yes.
And on Tuesdays, I take a course in General Semantics at Berkeley. That's not a job, of course. I just take it because...
What about Thursdays and Fridays?
On Thursdays I have my meeting and lunch. I'm chairman of a group that's sending a little Korean boy through school. We plan how to raise funds and... things like that.
And Fridays? What do you do then?
Nothing. I go to bird shops on Fridays.
I'm glad you do.
Do you know what I was doing in that shop?
What?
I have an aunt, you see. Aunt Tessa. She's seventy years old, and veddy prim and straitlaced. She's coming back from Europe at the end of the month, and I'm going to give her a myna bird that'll talk to her.
What'll it say?
You'll think me very bold, sir.
No, tell me.
Are you all right?
Yes.
You look a little shaken.
I... I am. Mitch, is... Mitch, this isn't usual, is it? The gull yesterday when I was in the boat, and the one last night at Annie's, and now...
Last night? What do you mean?
A gull smashed into Annie's front door. Mitch... what's happening?
I don't know, Melanie. Look, do you have to go back to Annie's?
No, I have my things in the car.
Then stay and have something to eat before you start back. I'd feel a lot better.
Do you want some mustard with this?
No, thank you.
Some cream?
I'll get it.
I'll take Cathy up to bed.
Are you staying?
I think I should, don't you?
It smelled of the fire.
It's hard to believe anything at all happened yesterday, isn't it? It's so beautiful and still now. I think I've got it all figured out, by the way.
Really? Tell me about it.
It's an uprising.
Of birds?
Certainly, of birds.
It all started several months ago with a peasant sparrow up in the hills, a malcontent. He went around telling all the other sparrows that human beings weren't fit to rule this planet, preaching wherever anyone would listen...
Growing a beard...
Yes, of course, he had to have a beard! 'Birds of the world, unite!' he kept saying, over and over...
So they united.
Not at first. Oh yes, a few sparrows out for kicks...
Well, they'll go along with anything.
Sure. But eventually, even the more seriousminded birds began to listen. "Why should humans rule?" they asked themselves.
Hear!
Why should we submit ourselves to their domination?
Hear, hear!
And all the while, that sparrow was getting in his little messages. Birds of the world, unite!
Take wing!
You have nothing to lose but your feathers.
What it was, probably...
Mmm?
They're probably hungry, that's all. This was a bad summer. They eat berries and... and nuts, you know, and the hills are all burned out, so they're probably searching for food wherever they can get it.
With my little sparrow leading team.
It's so damn quiet out there.
It was like that yesterday.
What do you mean?
After the gulls attacked.
I hadn't thought of that. And then the swifts came.
It makes you feel as if they're... they're waiting or... resting... or....
No, they're having a meeting, Melanie. Your sparrow is standing on a soap box and...
Melanie, Melanie...
I'm frightened, Mitch.
No, no...
I'm frightened and confused and I... I think I want to go back to San Francisco where there are buildings and... and concrete and...
Melanie...
...everything I know.
That was Al on the phone. He wants me to meet him out at the Fawcett place. Says some detectives from Santa Rosa'll be there in a little while. Will you be all right here?
Yes. I was just taking her in some tea.
I got here as fast as I could. Where's Cathy?
At Annie's house. She's all right.
I think it's safe to get out now.
Don't let's take any chances.
We've got to get Cathy.
The town looks clear.
The bay doesn't.
How long have they been gathering there?
The past fifteen minutes. It seems to be a pattern, doesn't it? They strike and disappear, and then they start massing again.
I keep thinking of Annie.
It... it doesn't look very different, does it? A little smoke over the town, but otherwise...
Even the birds sitting out there. It does look very much the same, Mitch. This could be last week.
It may not be last week again for a long long time.
Do you want to try your father again?
I tried a little while ago. The phone's dead.
Have we still got power?
Yes. I'm tired, Mitch. I'm so very very tired.
Where are they heading?
Inland.
Santa Rosa?
Maybe.
When will they stop?
I thought they'd have stopped by now.
What time is it?
Almost two a.m.
You must be exhausted.
How about you?
You'd have been safe in San Francisco.
I don't want to be safe. I want to be with you.
The power.
Mitch...
Wait here. Don't move.
We'd better light some of those lamps.
No... wait. Hold me.
Mitch, if they hear the car starting... if they see movement...
We'll take it slow until we get to the main road. Are you ready?
Can we turn back?
I... I don't think so. If we get through town, I think we'll be all right.
Is that for Mitch Brenner?
Yes.
He's not home.
That's all right.
He won't be back until Monday. I mean, if those birds are for him....
Monday?
Yes. I don't think you should leave them in the hall, do you?
Well, I...
Well, where did he go?
Bodega Bay. He goes up there every weekend.
Bodega Bay? Where's that?
Up on the coast. About sixty miles north of here.
Sixty... Oh.
About an hour and a half on the freeway. Or two if you take the coast highway.
Oh.
I'd hold the birds for him, but I'm going away myself. Someone's got to feed them, I suppose.
Yes. Yes, someone's got to feed them.
I'm awfully sorry.
That's a chimney swift, all right.
We know what it is, Al.
Well, these birds live in chimneys, you know.
Not by the thousands.
No, I gotta admit this is peculiar. Did you have a light burning or something.
Yes, but the curtains were drawn.
'Cause sometimes birds are attracted by light, you know. Sure is a peculiar thing.
What are we going to do about it, Al?
I don't think I get you, Mitch. Do about what?
Well... Well... these birds attacked us.
What's more likely, they got in the room and was just panicked, that's all.
All right, I'll grant you a bird'll panic in an enclosed room. But, they didn't just get in. They came in! Right down that chimney.
My wife found a bird in the back seat of her car once.
Didn't know how he got in there. Had a broken leg, turned out. Just fluttering all around there.
These birds were...
What I'm trying to say, Mitch, is these things happen sometimes, you know? Ain't much we can do about it.
Oh, yeah, yeah. How old is she now?
Eleven. In the middle of the party, some gulls came down at the children. And Miss Daniels was attacked by a gull just yesterday after...
Does this room look silly?
No, you got quite a mess here, I'll admit that. Maybe you oughta put some screening on top of your chimney Seems a little pointless, though. Freak accident like this wouldn't happen again in a million years. You want some help cleaning up?
Well, if there's anything else I can do, Mitch...
Thanks, Al. We'll be all right.
Goodnight, Lydia.
He was killed last night. By birds.
Now hold it, Mitch. You don't know that for a fact.
There's an ordinance against burning anything in this town, unless it's...
We'll use smoke pots. Like the Army uses.
Then you knew Mitch in San Francisco, is that right?
No, not exactly.
If I go across to Santa Rosa I'll come onto the freeway much earlier.
Yeah, and the freeway's welllighted, isn't it, Mitch?
No, it's me, Mrs. Brenner. I thought you might like some tea.
Oh, thank you.
Where's Mitch?
Al Malone wanted him out at the Fawcett farm.
Why? Didn't Al believe my story?
He was calling from the farm, Mrs. Brenner.
Then he saw.
He must have. He sent for the Santa Rosa police.
What good will they do?
Do you think Cathy's all right?
What?
Cathy. At the school.
Yes, I'm sure she's fine.
Do I sound foolish to you?
No.
I keep seeing Dan Fawcett's face. They have such big windows at the school. All the windows were broken. In Dan's bedroom. All the windows.
Try not to think of that, Mrs. Brenner.
I wish I were a stronger person. There is a long awkward silence. She sips at her tea reflectively.
I lost my husband four years ago, you know. It's odd how you depend on someone for strength, and then suddenly all the strength is gone, and you're alone. I'd love to relax some time. I'd love to be able to sleep. Do you think Cathy's all right?
Annie's there. She'll be all right.
I'm not this way, you know. Not usually. I don't fuss and fret over my children. When Frank died... You see, he knew the children, he really knew them. He had the knack of being able to enter into their world, of becoming a part of them. That's a rare talent.
Yes.
I wish I could be that way.
I miss him. You know, sometimes I wake up in the morning, and I think 'I have to make Frank's breakfast,' and I... I get up and there's a... a very good reason for getting out of bed until... until, of course, I remember. I miss talking to him. Cathy's a child, you know, and Mitch... ...Mitch has his own life. I'm glad he stayed here today. I feel safer with him here.
Would you like to rest now, Mrs. Brenner.
No. No... don't go yet. I feel as if I... I don't understand you. And I want so much to understand.
Why, Mrs. Brenner?
Because my son is... My son seems to be fond of you. And I... I'm not quite sure how I feel about it. I really don't know if I... like you or not.
Is that so important, Mrs. Brenner? You liking me?
Yes, I think so. My son is important to me. I want to like any girl he chooses.
And if you don't?
Then I don't suppose it'll matter much to anyone but me.
I think it might also matter to Mitch.
Mitch has always done exactly what he wanted to do. I'm not complaining. That's the mark of a man. But... You see, I... I wouldn't want to be... be left alone. I don't think I could bear being left alone. I... forgive me. This business with the birds has me upset. I... I don't know what I'd do if Mitch weren't here.
Why don't you try to sleep now, Mrs. Brenner.
I wish I were stronger. Do you think she's all right? Do you think she's safe at the school?
Would you like me to go for her?
I couldn't ask you to.
I don't mind, really.
Would you? I'd feel so much better.
I'll just clear up here, and then dress.
That's the last of it.
Did you close the door?
And locked it.
Please don't mess me up with bandages, Mrs. Brenner.
Shhhh. Shhhh.
Please.
I thought I saw your car. What are you doing in town?
I had to acknowledge a delivery. Mother, I'd like you to meet...
A what?
Melanie Daniels. Melanie, my mother.
How do you do, Miss Daniels? Acknowledge a what?
A delivery, Mother. Miss Daniels brought some birds from San Francisco.
Oh. I see.
For Cathy. For her birthday. By the way, where is she?
Across at Brinkmeyer's.
Miss Daniels is staying for the weekend. In fact, I've already invited her to dinner tonight.
You did say birds?
Yes, lovebirds. We couldn't let you...
Lovebirds, I see.
...get away without thanking you in some small way. After all, you haven't even met Cathy and you are staying for the weekend...
Seven o'clock, same as usual.
I'll pick you up, Miss Daniels. Where are you staying?
There's nothing wrong with those chickens, Mitch. I'm going to call Fred Brinkmeyer right now.
I don't know what good that'll do. Chickens won't eat.
He sold the feed to me, didn't he?
Caviat emptor, Mother. Let the buyer beware.
Whose side are you on?
I'm simply quoting the law.
Never mind the law. Cathy, you can start serving the soup.
She's a charming girl, isn't she, Mitch?
Yes, very.
And certainly pretty.
Yes.
How long have you known her?
I told you. We met yesterday.
In a bird shop.
Yes.
She was selling birds.
No. I only led her into believing I believed she was... Mother, it's really very complicated.
But she did buy the lovebirds and then brought them all the way...
Mother, where did you go to law school?
Forgive me. I suppose I'm just naturally curious about a girl like that. She's very rich, isn't she?
I suppose so. Her father owns a big newspaper in San Francisco.
You'd think he could manage to keep her name out of print. She's always mentioned in the columns, Mitch.
I know, Mother.
She is the one who jumped into that fountain in Rome last summer, isn't she?
Yes, Mother.
Perhaps I'm oldfashioned. I know it was supposed to be very warm there, Mitch, but... well... actually... well, the newspaper said she was naked.
I know, Mother.
It's none of my business, of course, but when you bring a girl like that to...
Mother?
Yes?
I think I can handle Melanie Daniels by myself.
Well... So long as you know what you want, Mitch.
I know exactly what I want, Mother.
Well... well, is everyone all right?
I think he got a little scratch, Mother.
Tell him about the party.
That's right. We had a party here this afternoon for Cathy. Her birthday.
Did you you get the windows in the attic, Mitch?
I got them all, Mother.
When do you think they'll come?
I don't know.
If there are... larger birds, Mitch... they'll get into the house.
That's a chance we have to take.
Maybe we ought to leave.
Not now. Not while they're massing out there.
When?
I don't know when. We'll see what...
Where will we go?
I don't know yet. I think we'll be safe here. Let's bring that wood in.
What happens when we run out of wood?
I don't know. We'll break up the furni...
You don't know, you don't know! When will you know? When we're all dead? Like Annie?
Mother! I'm trying my best! I'm... trying... my...
I'm sorry, Mitch.
Mitch...
Shhh. Shhh.
Mother, get a rope!
Oh, my God, look at her!
Get a rope!
I can handle it.
I know you can. But I'd like to.
I'm not very good at this, Mitch.
You're doing fine.
I mean. I want to...
They're gone. The same pattern.
But they'll be back.
We won't be here.
Where can we go, Mitch? There's no place to go.
I want to try for San Francisco. There are buildings there. Steel and concrete!
We'd never make it. They're probably all over the road.
We have to try it. We can't stay here. Melanie needs help. Mother, the house won't take another attack.
If... If... when we get to San Francisco... If they're already there?
They won't be.
If they are?
We'll worry about that when we get there.
I'm frightened, terribly frightened. I... I don't know what's out there, Mitch.
What do we have to know, Mother? We're all together, we all love each other, we all need each other. What else is there? Mother, I want us to stay alive!
I started to say... inside...
You don't have to.
Are you finished here, Sebastian?
Let me have some apple pie, Helen. Who said anything about war? All I said was that some gulls...
One apple pie! You want more coffee?
No. ...came down on one of my boats. They could have been after the fish, just as you said.
Here's your pie, Sebastian. You want it at the table?
No. Here's fine.
Where are the Bloody Marys, Deke?
Deke, have you got a first aid kit back there?
What happened?
Young woman cut herself.
Shall I call the doctor?
I don't think it's that serious. You want to sit up here?
You cut yourself outside, Miss?
Stop worrying, Deke. She was in a boat.
I had a man trip and fall in the parking lot once, sued me before I could bat an eyelash.
I don't think Miss Daniels is going to sue anybody.
Well, you're the lawyer.
We don't have any fog this time of year, Mitch.
We'll make our own fog.
Gulls!
They're back!
I don't see what difference it makes, Mrs. Bundy, crows or blackbirds. If they attacked the school, that's pretty serious.
I hardly think either species would have the intelligence to launch a massed attack. Their brain pans aren't large enough for such...
Mrs. Bundy, you don't seem to understand. This young lady says there was an attack on the school.
Impossible.
I didn't even know there were many crows in Bodega Bay this time of year.
The crow is a permanent resident throughout its range. In fact, during our Christmas Count, we recorded...
Why not, Mrs. Bundy?
Because there are 8,650 species of birds in the world today, Mr. Carter. It's estimated that five billion, seven hundred and fifty million birds live in the United States alone. The five continents of the world...
What good'll that do? Smoke's as bad as birds.
Birds are not bad!
Good morning.
Morning.
I wonder if you could help me.
Try my best.
I'm looking for a man named Mitchell Brenner.
Yep.
Do you know him?
Yep.
Where does he live?
Right here. Bodega Bay.
Yes, but where?
Right across the bay there.
Where?
See where I'm pointing?
Yes?
See them two big trees across there?
Yes?
And the white house?
That's where the Brenners live.
The Brenners? Mr. and Mrs. Brenner?
Nope, just Lydia and the two kids.
The two kids?
Yep. Mitch and the little girl.
I see. How do I get down there?
Follow the road straight through town 'til it curves off on the left. That'll take you right around the bay to their front door.
The front door. Isn't there a back road I can take?
Nope. That's the road. Straight through town, stay on your left, right around the bay to the front door.
You see, I wanted to surprise them.
Mmmm.
I didn't want to come right down the road, where they could see me.
Mmmm.
It's a surprise, you see.
Mmmmmm. 'Course, you could get yourself a boat, cut right across the bay with it. The Brenners got a little dock there you could tie up at. If that's what you wanted to do.
Where would I get a boat?
Down at the dock by the Tides Restaurant. Ever handled an outboard boat?
Of course.
D'you want me to order one for you?
Thank you.
What name?
Daniels.
Okay.
I wonder if you could tell me...
Yep?
The little girl's name.
The little Brenner girl?
Yes.
Alice, I think. Harry, what's the little Brenner girl's name?
Are you sure?
Well, I ain't positive, if that's what you mean.
I need her exact name, you see.
That case, I tell you what you do. You go straight through town 'til you see a little hotel on your left there. Not the motel, that's the other end of town. This is the hotel. Now you take a right turn there, you got that?
Yes?
Near the top of the hill, you'll see the school and right behind it, the church. You head for the school. Now just past the school, you'll see a little house with a red mail box. That's where Annie Hayworth lives, she's the school teacher. You ask her about the little Brenner girl.
Thank you.
Yep. Could save yourself a lot of trouble. Her name's Alice for sure.
Can I have the boat in about twenty minutes?
How much for the phone calls?
It's nothing.
What?
The little Brenner girl.
Lois!
It's Alice, ain't it?
No, it's Lois!
It's Alice.
Why didn't Annie stay for dinner?
She said something about having to get home to take a call from her mother back East.
Oh. Where d'you want the coffee?
Take it into the living room, would you, hon?
What's the matter with them?
We've got an extra room upstairs and everything.
That road can be a bad one at night, Melanie.
Yeah, but she'll be hitting all that traffic going back to San Francisco.
Did you put the cover on that cage, Mom?
Mitch? Why are they doing this? The birds.
I don't know, honey.
Why are they trying to kill people?
I wish I could say. But if I could answer that, I could also tell you why people are trying to kill people.
Cathy! Get a blanket and some bandages!
Is she all right?
Mitch, let's turn back.
Shhh. Shhhhh.
Mitch? Do... do you think they'll be all right? In the trunk? Can they breath?
I think they'll be all right, honey.
Miss Daniels?
Yes?
They're beautiful! They're just what I wanted! Is there a man and a woman? I can't tell which is which.
Well, I suppose...
I still don't understand how you knew I wanted lovebirds.
Your brother told me.
Is smoking fun?
Oh, I suppose so.
Could I have a puff?
I don't think your mother would like that.
Just a little one.
Why, it's just like air, isn't it? When I grow up, I'm gonna smoke like a chimney! I'll be eleven tomorrow, you know.
I know.
Are you coming to my party?
I don't think so. I have to get back to San Francisco.
Don't you like us?
Darling, of course I do!
Don't you like Bodega Bay?
I don't know yet.
Mitch likes it very much. He comes up every weekend, you know, even though he has his own apartment in the city. He says San Francisco is just an ant hill at the foot of a bridge.
I guess it does get a little hectic at times.
If you do decide to come, don't say I told you about it. It's supposed to be a surprise party.
He got a call from Dan Fawcett a little while ago. His chickens won't eat, either.
It's what you said, Mom. Mr. Brinkmeyer's feed is no good.
No, Cathy. He sold Mr. Fawcett a different brand. You don't think they're getting sick, do you, Mitch?
Mitch knows lots of people in San Francisco. Of course, they're mostly hoods.
Cathy!
Well, Mom, he's the first to admit it. He spends half his day in the detention cells at the Hall of Justice.
In a democracy, Cathy, everyone is entitled to a fair trial. Your brother's practice...
Mom, please, I know all the democracy jazz. They're still hoods. He's got a client now who shot his wife in the head six times. Six times, can you imagine it? I mean, even twice would be overdoing it, don't you think?
Yes, I did.
Just listen to them!
Mother!
If your father were here...
Mitch, can I bring the lovebirds in here?
No!
Mom, they're in a cage!
They're birds!
They haven't harmed anyone.
Take them.
Miss Hayworth?
Yes?
I'm Melanie Daniels. I'm sorry to bother you, but...
Yes?
The man at the post office sent me. He said you'd know the name of the little Brenner girl.
Cathy?
The one who lives in the white house across the bay?
That's the one. Cathy Brenner.
They seemed sure it was either Alice or Lois.
Which is why the mail in this town never gets delivered to the right place. Did you want to see Cathy about something?
Are you a friend of Mitch's?
No, not really.
I've been wanting a cigarette for the past twenty minutes, but I couldn't convince myself to stop. This 'tilling of the soil' can get a little compulsive, you know.
It's a lovely garden.
Thank you. It gives me something to do with my spare time. There's a lot of spare time in Bodega Bay. Did you plan on staying long?
No. Just a few hours.
You're leaving after you see Cathy?
Well... something like that. I'm sorry. I don't mean to sound so mysterious.
Actually, it's none of my business.
Did you drive up from San Francisco?
Yes.
It's a nice drive. Is that where you met Mitch?
Yes.
I guess that's where everyone meets him.
Do I? No, I'm an open book, I'm afraid. Or maybe a closed one. Pretty. What are they?
Lovebirds.
Mmm. Well, good luck, Miss Daniels.
Thank you.
Oh, hi! Did you find her all right?
Yes, I did.
I was wondering...
Yes?
That sign. Do you think I could have the room for a single night?
Well, I'd really hope to rent it for...
I would appreciate it. I've tried everywhere in town, and they're all full.
Sure. You can have it. Where's your bag? In the car?
It's utilitarian, I'll say that for it.
I just picked up some things for the night at the general store. You see, I hadn't planned on spending much time here.
Yes, I know. Did something unexpected crop up?
Miss Daniels? Is that you?
Yes.
Hi. Is something wrong? Is that cut beginning to bother you?
No, it's not the cut that's bothering me.
Would you like some brandy?
If you have some, I'd...
I'll get it, sit down, Miss Daniels. Do you want a sweater or something? A quilt?
No, thank you. Won't you call me Melanie?
All right.
Thank you.
It gets a little chilly here at night sometimes. Especially if you're over near the bay.
Or would you rather I changed the subject?
I think so.
How do you like our little hamlet?
I despise it.
Well, I don't suppose it offers much to the casual visitor. Unless you're thrilled by a collection of shacks on a hillside. It takes a while to get used to.
Where are you from originally, Annie?
San Francisco.
How'd you happen to come here?
Oh, someone invited me up for the weekend a long time ago.
I guess you knew that, anyway.
I suspected as much.
You needn't worry. It's over and done with. A long time ago.
Annie  there's nothing between Mitch and me.
Isn't there? Maybe there isn't. Maybe there's never anything between Mitch and any girl.
What do you mean?
I think I'll have some of that, too. I was seeing quite a lot of him in San Francisco, you know. And then, one weekend, he asked me up to meet Lydia.
When was this?
Four years ago. Of course, that was shortly after his father died. Things may be different now.
Different?
With Lydia. Did she seem a trifle distant?
A trifle.
Then maybe it isn't different at all. You know, her attitude nearly drove me crazy. I simply couldn't understand it.
When I got back to San Francisco I spent days trying to figure out just what I'd done to displease her.
And what had you done?
Nothing! I simply existed. So what was the answer? A jealous woman, right? A clinging possessive mother. Wrong. With all due respect to Oedipus, I don't think that was the case at all.
Then what was it?
Lydia liked me, you see. That was the strange part of it. In fact, now that I'm no longer a threat, we're very good friends.
Then why did she object to you?
Because she was afraid.
Afraid you'd take Mitch?
Afraid I'd give Mitch.
I don't understand.
Afraid of any woman who'd give Mitch the only thing Lydia can give him  love.
Annie, that adds up to a jealous, possessive woman.
No, I don't think so. She's not afraid of losing her son, you see. She's only afraid of being abandoned.
Someone ought to tell her she'd be gaining a daughter.
She already has a daughter.
What about Mitch? Didn't he have anything to say about this?
I can understand his position. He went through a lot with Lydia after his father died. He didn't want to risk going through it all over again.
I see.
So it ended. Not immediately, of course. I went back to San Francisco, and I still saw Mitch every now and then... but we both knew it was finished.
Then what are you doing here in Bodega Bay?
You get straight to the point, don't you?
I'm sorry. Forgive me.
No, that's all right, I don't mind. I came up here for two reasons. To begin with, I was bored with my job in San Francisco. I was teaching at a private school there... well, you know, you probably went to one yourself.
I did.
Then you know. Little girls in brown beanies. Deadly. Here I have a life. I'll go into that classroom on Monday morning, and I'll look out at twenty five upturned little faces, and each of them will be saying, 'Yes, please give me what you have.' And I'll give them what I have. I haven't got very much, but I'll give them every ounce of it. To me, that's very important. It makes me want to stay alive for a long long time. That's the first reason.
And the second?
I wanted to be near Mitch. It was over, and I knew it, but I wanted to be near him, anyway. You see, I still like him a hell of a lot. That's rare, I think. I don't want to lose his friendship... ever.
He wants me to go to Cathy's party tomorrow afternoon. I said I would.
I'll be going, too, to help out. It should be fun, Melanie.
It seems so pointless. I think I'll go to sleep. This has been a busy day. My luggage.
Do you think I should go?
That's up to you.
It's really up to Lydia, isn't it?
Never mind Lydia. Do you want to go?
Yes.
Then go.
Is anyone there?
Look.
Ohhh. Oh, the poor thing. He probably lost his way in the dark.
Now that you remember who you are, were you planning on telling anyone your true identity?
I already have.
Who?
My girlfriend. If she still is...
Would that be Miss Sinclair?
No. No, not Miss Sinclair. I'm talking about Adele Lardner.
Mr. Appleton, I have reason to believe you're holding something back, and that just rubs me the wrong way. Sir, are you a communist?
No. Absolutely not.
All right. All right. We'll see.
Ancestors?
Actually, my grandpap. But "ancestors" sounds better, don't it? Here.
I suppose. Thanks.
You look familiar, fella. What's your name?
They all know you?
'Course they all know me. And I know all them. Town's got my name, don't it?
Ernie Cole here just got himself elected mayor. Lost both his boys in the war. Kenny at Anzio and Willie at Normandy.
The war...
Mabel over there at the diner lost her husband Max. Okinawa, I believe.
You hungry, son?
Yes. Very.
Got any money?
Said as much myself, Doc. Can't place him, though. To look at him, you'd think the cheese slid off his cracker. Well, morning's halfover. I'm off.
Thank you, Mr. Lawson.
Don't mention it. Whoeveryouare.
Pete, there's time before the picture starts, you want to get some popcorn?
You bet, honey.
What happened?
What exactly did you hear?
That you got let go.
I wasn't alone. Wasn't Frankie Ruskin directing the picture you're in?
He was, but he got sick. We got a new director today. Why?
Well, whatever Frankie's got, it's catching.
You mean, he was... let go, too?
They're saying I'm a communist, Sandy. But I'm not, you know that. I'm gonna fight 'em, and I'm gonna win, but I'll need your help.
Will you help me, Sandy?
I'll have to think about this. I have to get back... I should go...
Can I... Can I tttalk to you?
Sure. Come on in. I was just packing.
Please, sit.
Thanks.
They'll come back, you know. They'll all cccome back.
The customers? I don't know...
They will. They wwwill.
Tim, I have to tell you something.
Oh.
It's about me.
Oh.
I'm... I'm not Luke. Luke is dead. He died in the war. He's not coming back, and I'm not him. I don't even belong here. This whole thing started out as an accident, and that's all it is. An accident.
Oh...
My name isn't Luke. It's Peter. Peter Appleton.
Did you think I didn't knknknow that?
I thought you...
I know more than you give me cc credit, that's for sure. Don't you see, it don't mmmatter who you are? All that matters is what you gggave us. And you can't take that away now. You're wrong, Peter Appleton. You do belong here.
Is there a young Tim?
No.
Well, then, why do they call you "Old Tim?"
Found me.
Yeah. I hope you don't mind. I didn't know anyone lived here... well, besides Harry. And me.
So I guess this fellow belongs to you. What's his name?
Cat.
Cat. That's simple. I like it. Hi, Cat.
We thought you was dead, you know. It's okay that I live here?
Of course.
Ttthank you. Thank you. I... I always... I always wanted to wear my uniform from the Great War, but your daddy, he always said no, that's not an usher's uuuniform, that's an army uniform and the Bijou, she's not the army. They give me a medal, but I lost it in the hhhospital. I forget things sometimes. Since the wwwar.
Yeah... me too.
That's my rrrent.
Oh.
I haven't danced with another man since Mr. Terwilliger passed.
When was that?
Nineteenohnine.
That was beautiful.
I taught you that.
I can play the piano?
Oh dear, yes. You were an excellent student, before all that clarinet nonsense. You loved Chopin. You used to call it "heaven music." "Teach me some heaven music," you used to say.
Sit. Play with me.
No, I...
Some of it might come back to you.
Luke! Luke, something's wrong! The film broke, and I can't raise Harry on the house phone!
What?
You've got to talk to them before they tear the theater apart!
Peter, their hands are tied. You see that, don't you?
I... I don't believe this.
Are you saying it's a mistake, that you didn't go to any meetings? They say you did.
Who the hell is this "they?"
Congress, the FBI, Red Channels, it don't matter who the hell "they" is. "They" know who "they" are, that's all that matters. Now, did you go to any meetings?
No. Yeah... I... I don't know. Maybe I did. Leo, this was before Pearl Harbor. I was in college. It was a bunch of kids, and I was just one of 'em. I didn't believe in what they were saying. Hell, I didn't even know what they were saying!
So, you're saying that it's true. You went to a meeting of a known communist organization.
Leo, I was trying to impress a skirt. You know me, I'm non political. Republican, Democrat, Communist, there's not a dime's worth of difference between 'em anyway.
You should watch what you say.
I don't know who fingered me, but I'm not a communist!
Kid, that cuts no ice with them.
What? That I'm accused of being a communist when I don't happen to be one?
They know you were at that meeting, Peter. They've been told, and they know.
Leo, you're my agent. Tell "them" to take a flyin' piss. I didn't do anything wrong. I fought in the war, for crissakes!
Fought? Come on, Pete, you ran the PX at Fort Dix.
I was decorated.
I know. A Purple Heart.
Exactly.
You broke your arm. You were coming out of a bar. You were drunk.
At least I was on our side! Look, they want me to testify? I'll testify. I'll tell 'em anything they want to hear! Jesus, Leo, this is my career!
You can't testify.
Why not?
They don't want you to testify because you're not a big enough fish for them. They just don't want you writing pictures for now. That's all.
Yeah, well, that's enough.
Peter, I believe in you. More to the point, I read your new script... um...
"Ashes To Ashes?"
That's the one, "Ashes To Ashes." I think it's great. But it'll never get made with this communist business hanging over your head. You can't work until you're cleared  and believe me, starting right now, I'm gonna do everything I can to make that happen.
So, it is a blacklist.
Don't say that. There is no such thing as a blacklist. Now, are you gonna play ball?
Yes. Leo, goddammit... this isn't fair!
The FBI can't arrest you, because you haven't done anything wrong.
Well, that's a relief. I understand they usually don't let that stop them.
However... you're gonna be subpoenaed to testify before the UnAmerican Activities Committee when they open hearings in Los Angeles. Now, if you play ball and tell them what they want to hear, they'll clear you.
And I won't be a communist anymore.
Exactly.
So it doesn't make any difference that I'm not one now, and have never been one.
Next time, it might be the FBI. The time after that, it might be the President. But it'll always be someone. Count on it.
That's not the country Luke fought for.
Lest we forget, Peter, your own military career was somewhat less illustrious than Luke's.
It's wrong, Leo.
Peter, don't let that stop you all of a sudden.
That was quite a show you gave them today. We shoulda sold tickets.
I'm not sorry for what I said.
No, of course not, why should you be sorry? You're the new Peter Appleton. You exercised your rights as a solid citizen, first amendment, freedom of speech, all that. Very noble.
Cigarette?
No thanks.
When'd you quit smoking?
Luke didn't smoke.
Oh, I see. But you're not Luke. You're Peter Appleton, the picture writer.
Not any more.
Why not?
Leo, you were in there, you saw what I did. You think they're gonna let me write pictures? Hell, they're probably gonna throw my ass in jail.
Not at all.
Besides, I don't even know if I want to write anymore.
What, you're going to go back to that hick town and run the projector and marry the doctor's daughter?
Peter, I'm an agent. I buy lunches and get deals made for guys like you. That's what I do. You're a writer. You write pictures. That's what you do. And trust me, you'll be back doing it again tomorrow morning.
What do you mean?
Kid, you gave them what they wanted. This committee, it feeds on names. The more names, the better. But for some highprofile witnesses, like yourself, any name will do.
Leo, I didn't give them the names. I wouldn't do that.
What, all of a sudden, "Lucille Angstrom" isn't a name?
Her name was right there in front of them. They gave it to me, I didn't give it to them.
Well, that's not what they think.
Leo, she was... she was a girl I knew in college...
You should keep track of your old school chums. Turns out she eventually joined the communist party. On top of which, she's Lucy Angstrom Hirschfeld now, and she happens to be a writer for "Studio One" on CBS.
Oh god, oh, god, no, I...
So, our lawyers had a talk with the Committee's lawyers. That Elvin Clyde fella won't be too happy about it, but we cut a deal. They cleared you  and they're gonna thank you publicly for your testimony purging yourself.
Thank me publicly? For what? For ruining this woman's life?
Climb down off your cross. They already knew about her. She was subpoenaed six months ago! Who the hell do you think named you?
You smell gas?
Don't smell nothin'. He must not be dead in here.
Jesus.
Hey, it's the best way to tell.
You think he's drunk somewhere?
Wouldn't blame him if he was.
Well, his rent's past due and he said to call you in case of an emergency. He lose his job or somethin'?
What's his rent?
Thirty a month.
Here's three months rent, and a ten spot for no more questions and to keep an eye on his place. Now, I need a moment alone.
Huh?
Take a hike. Amscray.
Huh? Oh, sure. Just pull the door shut when you leave.
Evening, Luke.
Evening, Doctor Lardner.
What's wrong?
Uh, no... just seeing you standing there, it reminded me... there's a word for it...
Oh, you mean the suit. Harry kept all my old clothes. Fits okay, but it's a little big.
You kids off to the dance?
Aren't you coming?
No, I'm not much of a dancer.
It's a pretty massive heart attack. His lungs have filled with fluid, and, well... it seems as though his body is just... shutting down.
Can we get him to the hospital?
Even if we could, and the move didn't kill him, there'd be very little we could do there that we can't do here. I'm sorry.
Any idea how you got here, son?
No, sir.
Been drinkin' a bit, have we?
I don't remember. I guess so. Smells like it. Tastes like it.
Well, you've been wet to the skin. You must've fallen in.
I guess I did.
Lucky you got out, that water's got quite a pull, and it empties straight into the ocean.
Here, one of mine.
Thanks.
Do you remember if you were driving a car? Maybe you went over the bridge. No guard rail there, it's easy to do. It's happened before.
It's possible. I just don't remember.
And you don't know your name or who you are, that right?
I... no, I... I just can't...
It's okay, son. We just need to call you something. That's all.
What is it?
Call me... Ishmael?
Well, at least you remember "Moby Dick."
That's me and my daughter Adele. My pride and joy. Charms the fish right out of the lake, she does.
She's very pretty.
Thanks. Well, Sheriff's on his way over, and maybe we can get to the bottom of who you are...
... sorry 'bout that, but you do look familiar to me.
Wish I could say the same thing.
That's where you live.
We live in a theater?
Pete. You think maybe you've had enough?
Bought the bottle, didn't I? To the United States of America. Long my she wave.
Thanks, Jerry. Tell me something.
What.
You tight with J. Edgar Hoover?
The Gman?
Zackly.
Pete, if J. Edgar Hoover walked in here wearing a dress, I wouldn't know him.
Too bad. He says I'm a communist.
You should watch what you say. You don't know who's listening.
You know I'm not a communist, don't you, Jer?
Sure, I suppose. That why you're on a bender?
This is not a bender yet. This is the start of a bender. But I can see how you were confused, they look a lot alike.
Pete... go home. Come on, I'll call that girlfriend of yours, what's her name... Sandy?
Sandra Sinclair.
Gimmee her number, I'll have her pick you up.
Sandra Sinclair. Wanna know her real name? Bella Iskowitz. No one's who they really are, Jer. Everyone's someone else. Even you. Even me. Especially me. I'm Peter Appleton, the communist who's not really a communist.
I wanna close up soon. C'mon, let's call her.
Nope. Can't. We're through.
Then I'll call you a cab.
I'll save you the trouble. I'm a cab. There. Did it myself.
'Sides, car's right outside. I'll be seein' ya, Jer.
Pete...
Excuse me... what's your, um, your name?
Harry, son. Harry.
And... what's my name again?
Albert Lucas Trumbo. But you've been "Luke" since you were a baby.
Ah. Luke. Luke. I like it.
You never came back from the war. We were told you were missing and presumed dead.
When did I leave?
You joined up one month to the day after Pearl Harbor. January seventh... nineteen fortytwo.
Nine andahalf years ago.
Nine andahalf years...
Wait'll you see the inside!
Can't wait.
We've been closed for a while.
Ah.
Exactly how long has the Bijou been closed?
Hmmmm... after you left, it was difficult, and then Lily  that's your mother  she took ill and died... we haven't shown a picture since fortyeight.
Why?
Well, after the war, with so many of the town's boys killed, people around here didn't much feel like going to the movies, I guess. Some of 'em moved away  Los Angeles, Sacramento, San Francisco. Wasn't much to keep 'em here, I expect. And now with this "television" thing  people just aren't going out as much as they used to.
Didn't you have any help?
Oh, I had Irene and Old Tim but they really couldn't help much. Broke their hearts when we closed up. Broke mine, too. But now that you're back, well, things will be different around here, that's for sure. C'mon, I'll show you where we live.
That's Lily. Your mother, rest her soul.
Mother. She's beautiful.
Well, yes, that she was. She certainly made this place a home.
They couldn't wait to see you.
Who... are they?
This is the staff of the Bijou.
Oh. What... what time is it?
Sixthirty. I thought we'd get an early start.
I promised him a new uniform when we reopened. And you'll get one, too.
You know, I hate to bring this up, but screens and uniforms and paint and repairs are going to take money, which I'm willing to bet none of us has.
Um... Harry? Did I ever keep the books here?
No, your mother did, then I did after she passed.
Well, I'm the first one to admit that I don't know anything about bookkeeping, but there are some very interesting things in here.
"February 10, 1942. Picture 'Ball of Fire.'"
Gary Cooper. And Barbara Stanwyck. Yowsa.
"Eight p.m. showtime, ninetysix admissions, receipts including concessions, $84.75... plus one fryer and twodozen eggs."
Yes?
"one fryer and twodozen eggs?"
Fortytwo was a lean year around here. The war had just started... you were gone less than a month... and we were coming off a bit of a drought as I recall. Not everyone could ante up the price of a ticket, and a chicken's as good as money if you ask me. At that time, it meant a lot to the folks around here to be able to come to the pictures.
Yeah, I know, but poultry...?
I know it's hard to believe, son, but this place, this little place this wasn't a theater then, this was a palace! Any man, woman, child, you, me, it didn't matter, you bought your ticket and you walked in and you...
But I...
Son, I think you loved the Bijou even more than I did. You've got to remember that. You've got to.
Ernie.
... Ernie.
Carl. Friend of yours from high school. Everybody calls him "Cueball."
Oh, hi Cue... Carl. Sorry.
I'll be home in a little while, Harry. Don't wait up.
You two have a lot of catching up to do, I guess.
You bet.
Goodnight, son. 'Night, Delly.
Well...
Yes?
Between a new screen, paint, plumbing for the concession stand, and about a hundred other repairs around the theater... it's going to cost at least nine hundred dollars to get the Bijou into shape to open up.
And you have sixtyeight dollars and thirtyseven cents in the bank. Your only source of income are my veteran's death benefit of forty dollars a month, to which you're no longer entitled since I'm alive, and these ten dollar a month cash deposits you make. What are those?
They're...
Why don't you two get out there and dance?
Oh, no, I...
Beautiful, wasn't it?
Yes.
Well, son, I wish I could've shown you more, but this is all that's left. Just this one reel that never got sent back from a picture we showed here a long time ago. Nineteen twentyfive, to be exact...
Dad, I...
Ha!
... what?
You know, since you've been back, that's the first time you've called me "Dad."
Luke... what time is it?
Sixthirty. I thought we'd get an early start.
Jesus...
The film broke...
I know, I know... keep still.
I'm here.
Did you... did you...
Did I what?
Did you fix the damn film? It broke in the last reel.
I know. Everyone went home. We offered them refunds.
Anybody take it?
A few.
Vultures...
I'm not happy about this, mind you, but if I have to go, at least I'm going in my own bed, the same bed my Lily died in, and... knowing that my son is alive. That's not too shabby, is it?
You're not going anywhere, Harry.
Don't tell me, I know about these things. I've seen it before. It's all right. It's... all right. You're here. Oh, God, I love you, son.
Luke, you probably don't remember me, Roscoe Fitts, I'm the grocer here in town.
Good to meet you. Again.
Like Ernie said, we're all glad to have you back.
Thanks.
And I hear you and Harry are planning on reopening the Bijou.
We're gonna try. Place needs a lot of work.
I can only imagine. You know, I spoke with your Dad last year about maybe taking the Bijou off his hands. I don't think he gave it very much thought.
Well, he loves the place. It's his home.
Luke, I'm hopping you can help him see the reality of the situation. I'll come to the point. I want to buy the property, and I'm prepared to offer sixthousand dollars for it. And that's just for the property, mind you. If you want, I'll leave it to you and your father to dismantle and liquidate the building for whatever salvage value it has, and you keep those proceeds. I just want the land.
That's... well, that's very generous, but if you've already got a store...?
The days of the storefront grocery are numbered. I plan on putting up a freestanding supermarket.
A super market. Huh.
You think it over. No reason to risk financial ruin for the sake of a crumbling old building.
So... you do intend to fix the place up after all?
Mr. Fitts, with all due respect, I think Lawson needs the Bijou a bit more than it needs a super market. And I think Lawson deserves the Bijou. There's not a lot that can be done to help us get past the pain we've all felt...
Yes.
You ever been in this town before, to your knowledge?
No. But...
But what?
Well, this place sorta reminds me of something.
What's that?
"It's a Wonderful Life."
The Jimmy Stewart picture? I remember that one. Saw it over at the Bijou. So, you remember that, huh?
"It's a Wonderful Life?"
Or the Bijou. Either one.
I remember the picture... but I don't remember where I saw it.
C'mon, I'll give you two a lift back to the Bijou.
The Bijou?
Well, no, but these gentlemen would like to get some answers...
I don't know what else to tell you. I wasn't hiding out. I hit my head and I didn't remember anything until a few days ago.
No wallet, huh?
No identification at all. What're you thinkin', Cecil?
What I'm thinkin' is we got us one a'two things here. A mystery or a damn miracle. And by god I can't tell which. Boy, you say you have no idea who you are? That right?
Doc, with your permission, I want to bring someone in here. Maybe it'll jar this young man's memory.
By all means.
Are you saying that he's...
Shhhhhh.
Mother o'god...
Give the man a hug, boy! That's your father!
Tomorrow afternoon... ... oh my god...
Exactly. Break it to her gently.
Cecil! Cecil, there's a young man in there...
Lord love a duck, Harry, you wanna give me a heart attack right in front of the doctor's office?
Listen to me! The young man in there...
Only one in town. Get in, son.
Ben, when's Delly due back?
Here we are.
Well, son, you're home!
Thanks for the lift, Cecil.
Don't mention it. Welcome home, Luke.
Do you swear that the testimony you are about to give before this committee of the United States House of Representatives will be the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, so help you god?
I do.
Be seated and state your full name and place of residence for the record.
Peter Kenneth Appleton. Hollywood, California.
The chair notes that you are appearing without the benefit of counsel today, Mr. Appleton. We certainly hope this means that you intend to be fully forthcoming with this committee?
I'll do my best, Mr. Chairman.
Now, we're informed that you have a statement you'd like to read, is that correct?
A statement?
Yes. A prepared statement.
Um... no. I don't have a statement at this time.
I'm a little hesitant to say.
The witness need not be hesitant to say anything before this committee, as long as it's the truth.
Mr. Appleton, you are making light of a legally constituted committee of the United States Congress. Believe you me, you do not want to incur our wrath.
I'm sorry, sir, I have no intention of making light of this committee. And I have no intention of incurring your wrath, Mr. Chairman. I have a few friends who have already incurred your wrath. They've sent me letters from jail.
Mr. Appleton? Mr. Appleton?
I... I need a drink of water.
Go ahead, son.
Mr. Chairman... there's... another Amendment... that I'd like to invoke at this time, but it's not the Fifth Amendment. I wonder if you're familiar with it.
Mr. Appleton, you will...
Sir, that is true.
Mr. Appleton, do you know an "Albert Lucas Trumbo?"
Luke Trumbo? We never met. But I'd like to think I know him.
Is that because you were masquerading as Luke Trumbo while you were in Lawson?
Mr. Clyde you're twisting things around. I wasn't masquerading. Luke Trumbo... Luke was a good man who gave his life for his country. I just... happen to look a little bit like him. That's all.
Yes, I see that Private Trumbo was reported missing in action and is presumed dead. I also see that you were posted stateside during the war. Fort Dix?
Yes, sir.
Well, I'm sure we're all glad to see you came through it all right.
Now, I see that you've been running a movie theater in Lawson called "The Bijou," is that also true?
Yes sir. But I didn't go to Lawson to run The Bijou, that was... that was something that just happened. You see, I was involved in an accident in Lawson, and I spent some time recovering there.
Anyone who reads the newspaper is quite familiar with your... "accident," Mr. Appleton. An accident which, conveniently, came hard upon your dismissal from United Pictures. Tell us, this "accident" of yours, are we given to understand that it affected your memory?
Yes.
And what is the state of your memory now?
Sir, are you referring to the fact that I was suffering from amnesia, and I've since recovered my memory?
I'm interested in knowing if you remember things you did in your past, or if they've been conveniently "blotted out" as a result of your "accident."
Mr. Clyde, I remember everything.
Good. Good. Now, I hold in my hand a photostatic copy of the attendance roster for the "Bread Instead of Bullets Club" of the University of California, Los Angeles, dated October 11, 1935. A copy of this paper is before you, Mr. Appleton. Do you recognize it?
Yes... yes, I do.
Referring to line thirtyseven of the document, does your printed name and signature appear there?
Yes it does.
Mr. Appleton, please tell this committee what was the nature and purpose of the "Bread Instead of Bullets Club?"
Mr. Clyde, do you want to know what I knew then, or do you want to know what I know now? They're two different things?
Start with what you knew then.
Well, I'd direct the attention of counsel and committee to line thirtysix of the document, and the name printed and signed there.
We see it. For the record, it reads "Lucille Angstrom." What's the point of this?
Well, that's what I knew then. Or who I knew, I should say. You see, I was trying to court Miss Angstrom. I went to the meeting to impress her.
Are you asking this committee to believe that you attended a meeting of a communist party front organization in order to impress a girl?
Well, if you'd seen Miss Angstrom...
All right, Mr. Appleton. That was what you knew then. What do you know now?
Well, I know that I lost my job because of one meeting I went to when I was a kid in college. I know that I've been branded a communist, which I'm not, but even if I was, it shouldn't matter, or what do we have a Bill Of Rights for?
Mr. Chairman, the witness is being nonresponsive...
Are you now, or have you ever been, a member of the communist party?
No, sir.
Are you refuting this evidence and your previous testimony?
I'm not refuting anything.
Yet you're contradicting yourself. You earlier testified that you attended a meeting of a communist partyrun organization, yet you just said, under oath, that you were not now  nor ever  a member of the communist party.
That's not a contradiction at all, sir. I went to the meeting, but I didn't go as a member.
Well, then, as what did you go?
Do you... remember me?
I've seen you before. Your picture...
What.
No, I... I just wondering where you've been all this time.
Me too.
You look... different.
I do?
Yeah, a little. I think you grew an inch or so. And you've lost weight.
I did? Huh!
You can all go home, now. He's not going anywhere.
Go on home, folks. And thanks for the welcome.
Then why do I feel like we're still being shadowed?
Well... where can we go?
City hall?
You must not remember anything. Come on.
You first.
Why me?
Be a gentleman. You have to help me down.
Of course, there was a lot more room before they stuck the memorial down here.
How'd they get it inside?
Through the door. It comes apart.
Right here. "Albert Lucas Trumbo." And all the others. I knew them all. So did you. We went to school with most of them.
It doesn't seem right, this being down here. It ought to be where people can see it.
After they commissioned it, no one could ever agree on where to put it. The Methodists wanted it in front of the Methodist Church, the Presbyterians wanted it in front of the Presbyterian Church, the city council wanted it in the lobby of City Hall. Everyone finally got tired of the fighting. So they stuck it down here.
So, you're really gonna be a lawyer?
And why not?
Whoa.
Sorry. You don't know how many times I've heard that. "A lady lawyer? Are you crazy?" Like a woman couldn't be as good a lawyer as a man. Or better, in fact.
Have you always wanted to be a lawyer?
You... don't remember, but yes, ever since I was a little girl.
What did... what did I want to be?
Oh, well... I guess you... in high school, you were a pretty good first baseman. And we were on the debate team together. But... I think you were gonna run the Bijou. You were brought up there, and you loved it so much. And I think you knew how much the town needed a place like that.
You don't have a boyfriend or anyone... you know... like that?
Actually, I was married. For four years. But... well, we didn't fit together. I'm divorced now.
I'm sorry.
No, it's okay. See, when two people belong together, the other person should be the... the key that unlocks the rest of you... I'm not making sense, am I?
No, you are. I know exactly what you mean. It's not that you're missing something. It's that the other person gives something to you... that you had all the time. You just didn't see it until they came along.
Yeah...
We were in love... weren't we?
Yes. Hic!
What was that?
Nothing.
Do you have the...
I'm fine. Really.
Were we going to get married?
Eventually. We were going to be engaged... when you came back from overseas...
No... you were wearing that suit the last time we went out before...
Oh...
... and It's just... well, deja vu.
This is strange. Do you feel it?
What?
We've done this before, so many times. The last time was so long ago, but it feels like yesterday.
Oh.
You know, everyone's so excited about the Bijou reopening...
It's gonna cost over nine hundred dollars to open the place, Delly.
Nine hundred...
Yeah, and needless to say, none of us has that kind of money lying around.
What about a loan? You could go to the bank...?
A loan to a man who ran his business into the ground and his son who can't account for the last nineandahalf years of his life? Not likely.
Well, there's got to be a way...
Have you got a cigarette?
When did you start smoking?
I don't smoke?
You tried to once. It was pretty pitiful.
Oh.
They're not bad.
No, they're not. I'd say your investment was paying dividends.
My what?
Back in '37, you heard Benny Goodman play for the first time, so you went out and got a used clarinet. You wanted nothing more than to be able to play like him. You tried hard, but it wasn't long before it was clear that Benny Goodman would never be looking over his shoulder. So you gave the clarinet to Spencer.
Huh. That was nice of me.
You had a hidden agenda, though. See, when he was five or six, little Spence used to follow you around like a puppy. Bothered the hell out of you. But as soon as you gave him the clarinet...
... he started practicing, and he left me alone from then on.
Exactly. And he got good.
No kidding.
Now, did you remember that, or...
Nope. Just filling in the blanks.
Oh. Okay.
How do you tell those two apart, anyway?
Alex and Charlie? Simple. Alex is the smarter one.
That's... pretty frightening.
Your dancing's very good.
Thanks.
It never used to be. You were two left feet on the dance floor. Like pulling teeth to get you to do a little box step.
Guess I must've learned.
What... do you remember?
Well... everything. It started coming back a couple of days ago. I remember everything now.
I see...
Delly. I'm... I'm not... Harry wasn't my father. And I'm not... I'm not Luke.
Delly, shhhhhh...
No... I can't... I have to... I can't...
Dad?
Delly? In here.
How'd it go?
Not as bad as I thought it would. I think I passed.
That's my girl! Did you...?
No hiccups, which was good. Who wants an attorney who gets the hiccups when she gets nervous? "Your honor, I object!"
I think it's worse now.
That always used to work.
Yeah, well it's not everyday you get news like this. You're sure he's okay? Other than the bump on the head?
Well...
Dad...
He doesn't remember anything, Delly. Doesn't know how he got here, doesn't remember his father, the town, the Bijou, anyone...
... including me. Right?
I'm afraid not. He looked right at your picture without batting an eye. But it's probably temporary. He got all the way to Lawson, so he clearly knew who he was and what he was doing until he hit his head. I'm sure it'll all come back to him. It just takes a catalyst.
You mean, me?
It's possible.
Daddy, that's Luke, can you let him in? I'll be right down.
Honey, I... I can't... it's the...
Besides, Daddy's still trying to figure out how to get his new television set working.
I had it, a minute ago...
Hi.
Hi.
I'm sure a lot of people down in L.A. are worried sick about you.
Yeah? I'm sure a lot more people down in L.A. want a piece of me.
This Luke was a pretty good guy, wasn't he?
Oh, yes. Yes, he was.
Well... let me tell you, I'm not Luke. I know who I am now, and you don't. And... I don't like me very much.
You know, it's going to take me a while to get used to calling you Pete. Pete. Pete. It's a nice name.
Thanks, I like it. I think.
I believe you.
The truth is, I'm a lot of things, but communist isn't one of them.
But if you only went to one meeting, why does anyone care? Besides, why should it even matter if you were a communist?
Come on, Delly, look at the country today. We're fighting communists in Korea, we're paranoid about the Russians, we've got this thing with the Rosenbergs and the atomic bomb... You think they want "suspected communists" entertaining the American public with party propaganda like, gosh I don't know, "Sand Pirates of the Sahara?"
Forget about all that. You want to do the right thing? Then defend your name. If someone says something about you that's untrue, you have to stand up and say so. I know the law, and the law's on your side.
What about you, Delly?
I am, too.
You'll stand by me?
Whatever happens.
You've got everything?
Yeah. Except a chance in hell of coming out of this intact.
You'll be fine. No matter what Leo Kubelsky says, you've got a hundred and seventyfive years of American law on your side. Don't forget that.
I wish you were coming with me.
And who's gonna run the projector until you get back? Mrs. Terwilliger?
Maybe we could train Cat to run the projector. You know, a system of scratching posts, and gears, and levers...
Did you bring along something to read?
Damn...
Not exactly light reading, I know. Believe it or not, I've read this since high school, and it got me all the way through law school. Besides, there's something in there that'll help you. You won't have to get very far, it's near the beginning.
Delly... thanks, thank you. I'll take good care of this.
Just remember two things. First, the law is a living thing. It made us free and it keeps us free. Sometimes it gets twisted around by people for their own purposes. Sometimes it makes mistakes, sometimes big mistakes. But in the end, the law prevails for the just. Sometimes, it takes a while.
Okay. What's the second thing?
Tell them Pete. Tell them...
Mr. Chairman, as I understand it, the Fifth Amendment pertains to selfincrimination, and I can't incriminate myself because I've done nothing wrong. Besides, incrimination is why you have Mr. Clyde working for you.
I see you got the telegram.
Pete, I'm so sorry about what they did to you. I didn't think you'd come back, I thought you'd want to write again...
Dell, I can't write unless I'm happy, and I can't be happy unless I'm here  and with you. This is me, Delly. Pete Appleton. And I love you!
And I love you, Pete!
What do you do for the F.B.I., Goodspeed.
I'm a field agent.
Tell me what you really do.
I don't understand....
During the time I cooperate, will I be outside? Outside a jail?
Well yes I suppose ...
You suppose?
Yes. You'll be outside.
John Mason. ' Don't be shocked. I don't have much time. Please listen carefully ....
Where is he sir? RIGHT IN FRONT OF ME. What's he doing? HE'S ON THE= PHONE. I DON'T FUCKING KNOW, HIS STOCKBROKER! Oh shit. Gotta go.
Motor oil?
For cottonmouth. Goodspeed and the S.E.A.L.s exchange looks.
Don't shoot me. Mason was actually slinging it over his shoulder...
For christ's sake. Mason trudges down the tu=3Del. Goodspeed follows him.
Wait. Where're you going?
I.don't get it. You're going to help me?
No. I'm going to give you dancing lessons. What the fuck do you think?
Limp dick?
It's all I could think of.
I'll go.
Wrong.
What, vou?
I'm not the chemical weapons expert.
What are you doing?
Now they only have three rockets left.
Wait.
Find the rockets. If they're guarded, kill the men guarding them.
Mason. Mason?
It's about time.
You referring to your intellect, Goodspeed? Or another portion of your= anatomy ....
The cell, Mason.
Surprise, surprise.
I'm not a field agent, all right? So cut me a break.
An F.B.I. Man asking me for a break. How droll.
Partners?
Partners.
Mason, uhm, John, I have something to tell you. You know that pardon= contract you signed?
Womack ripped it up, right?
You knew? All this time?
I'm not a fool, Billy.
All I know is that whatever you did, you don't deserve to go back.
God's speed.
Yes. To wish someone a prosperous jouey.
St. Michael's Church, Fort Walton, Kansas. Front pew. Right leg. = Hollow.
What's that? Mason?
No.
Ancient Greece. Alchimadus was imprisoned by his king.
Maybe. Not really.
Archbishop of Canterbury. Imprisoned and executed by Henry the Second ...
Thank you.
You're not wimping out on us, Goodspeed.
I join the F.B.I. I ask for fieldwork. They say, "Bill, you're too fucking= smart for field work." Every year I put in for a transfer and every year I= sit in that goddamn lab like the fucking Maytag repairman in the= commercial. Then the call finally comes, and it's a whole fuckin, city at= stake? Oh Jesus...
Spit it out.
MY girlfriend's pregnant.
It's me sir.
What is happening? Where's Mason?
He says he's leaving the island sir.
Don't let him do that.
He's got a gun, sir.
What do you have, a FUCKING WATER PISTOL? Get him back!
Just come and get me, sir. I'm tired.
Name your vacation spot, Goodspeed. The Bureau'll pay for it.
Had a close one.
You want to talk about it?
Not really.
You know how I feel about what you do.
Could we change the subject?
That record company.in Nashville wants to hear my demo tape.
Hey! Now there's some good news.
You think I'm too... ethnic for country music?
Carla Pestalozzi? No. Definitely not. You could have posed for the Mona= Lisa. Sophia Loren looks Swedish next to you.
Stick with Carla.
Okay. How 'bout Carla Goodspeed? Six years, Bill. We've lived together six years.
Don't stop... do no stop.
Shit, shit, shit what time is it. Hello. I'll be downstairs in ten minutes.
Travis.
Hey Wizard.
So howsit?
Some fleet driver for Bell just got cut up. Just heard it on the radio.
What's the action around?
Slow.
Wiz?
Yeah?
Look, ah, we never talked much, you and me...
Yeah?
I wanted to ask you something, on account you've been around so long.
Shoot. They don't call me the Wizard for nothing.
Well, I just, you know...
Things got ya down?
Real down.
It happens.
Sometimes it gets so I just don't know what I'm gonna do. I get some real crazy ideas, you know? Just go out and do somethin.
The taxi life, you mean.
Yeah.
I know.
Like do anything, you know.
Travis, look, I dig it. Let me explain. You choose a certain way of life. You live it. It becomes what you are. I've been a hack 27 years, the last ten at night. Still don't own my own cab. I guess that's the way I want it. You see, that must be what I am.
Look, a person does a certain thing and that's all there is to it. It becomes what he is. Why fight it? What do you know? How long you been a hack, a couple months? You're like a peg and you get dropped into a slot and you got to squirm and wiggle around a while until you fit in.
That's just about the dumbest thing I ever heard, Wizard.
What do you expect, Bertrand Russell? I've been a cabbie all my life, what do I know? I don't even know what you're talking about.
Neither do I, I guess.
You fit in. It's lonely, it's rough at first. But you fit in. You got no choice.
Yeah. Sorry, Wizard.
Don't worry, Killer. You'll be all right. I seen enough to know.
Thanks.
Here, officer, take me in. I'm clean. I didn't do it. Got a ticket once in Jersey. That's all. Honest, officer.
Your name Sport?
Anything you say, officer.
I'm no cop. I want some action.
I saw. $20 fifteen minutes. $30 half hour.
Shit.
Take it or leave it.
I'm no cop.
Well, if you are, it's entrapment already.
I'm hip.
Funny, you don't look hip.
Hey, Sport. How are things?
O.K., cowboy.
How are things in the pimp business, hey Sport?
What's going on?
I'm here to see Iris.
Iris?
Wha  ?
Yeah, Iris. You know anybody by that name?
No. Hillbilly, you'd better get your wise ass outa here and quick, or you're gonna be in trouble.
Get it.
Hey, mister, I don't know what's going on here. This don't make any sense.
Show it to me.
Are you a Secret Service Man?
Why do you ask?
I've seen a lot of suspiciouslooking people around here today.
Who?
Oh, lots. I don't know where they all are now. There used to be one standing over there.
Is it hard to get to be a Secret Service Man?
Why?
I kinda thought I might make a good one. I'm very observant.
Oh?
I was in the Army too. And I'm good with crowds.
Is that so?
What kind of guns do you guys use? .38's?
Look, um, if you give me your name and address, we'll send you the information on how to apply.
You would, huh?
Sure.
My name is Henry Krinkle  that's with a "K." KRINKLE. I live at 13 1/2 Hopper Avenue, Fair Lawn, New Jersey. Zip code 07410. Got that?
Sure, Henry. I got it all. We'll send you all the stuff all right.
Great, hey. Thanks a lot.
No trouble with the Hack Bureau?
No Sir.
Got your license?
Yes.
So why do you want to be a taxi driver?
I can't sleep nights.
There's porno theatres for that.
I know. I tried that.
So whatja do now?
I ride around nights mostly. Subways, buses. See things. Figur'd I might as well get paid for it.
We don't need any misfits around here, son.
You kiddin? Who else would hack through South Bronx or Harlem at night?
You want to work uptown nights?
I'll work anywhere, anytime. I know I can't be choosy.
How's your driving record?
Clean. Real clean. As clean as my conscience.
Listen, son, you gonna get smart, you can leave right now.
Sorry, sir. I didn't mean that.
Physical? Criminal?
Also clean.
Age?
Twentysix.
Education?
Some. Here and there.
Military record?
Honorable discharge. May 1971.
You moonlightin?
No, I want long shifts.
We hire a lot of moonlighters here.
So I hear.
Hell, we ain't that much fussy anyway. There's always opening on one fleet or another. Fill out these forms and give them to the girl at the desk, and leave your phone number. You gotta phone?
No.
Well then check back tomorrow.
Yes, Sir.
Say, aren't you Charles Palantine, the candidate?
Yes I am.
Well, I'm one of your biggest supporters. I tell everybody that comes in this cab that they should vote for you.
Why, thank you Travis.
I'm sure you'll win, sir. Everybody I know is going to vote for you. I was going to put one of your stickers on my taxi but the company said it was against their policy.
I'll tell you, Travis, I've learned more about this country sitting in taxi cabs than in the board room of General Motors.
Travis, what single thing would you want the next President of this country to do most?
I don't know, sir. I don't follow political issues much.
There must be something...
Well, he should clean up this city here. It's full of filth and scum. Scum and filth. It's like an open sewer. I can hardly take it. Some days I go out and smell it then I get headaches that just stay and never go away. We need a President that would clean up this whole mess. Flush it out.
I know what you mean, Travis, and it's not going to be easy. We're going to have to make some radical changes.
Damn straight.
Nice talking to you, Travis.
Thank you, sir. You're a good man, sir.
Why should it be grounded?
Listen  I mean I just saw the needle of the Empire State Building. You can't see it for the fog!
Then it's a good guess it's grounded.
The Empire State in fog means something, don't it? Do you know, or don't you? What is your number, cabbie?
Have you tried the telephone?
There isn't time for that. In other words, you don't know.
No.
Well, you should know, damn it, or who else would know? Pull over right here. Why don't you stick your goddamn head out of the goddamn window once in a while and find out about the goddamn fog!
Hello.
You looking for some action?
Well... I guess so.
All right. You see that guy over there? His name is Sport. Go talk to him. I'll wait here.
Why you hang around with them greasers?
A girl needs protection.
Yeah. From the likes of them.
It's your time mister. Fifteen minutes ain't long. That cigarette burns out, your time is up.
What's your name?
Easy.
That ain't much of a name.
It's easy to remember. Easy Lay.
What's your real name?
I don't like my real name.
What's your real name?
Iris.
That's a nice name.
That's what you think.
Why? Who are you?
I drive a taxi. You tried to get away one night. Remember?
No.
You tried to run away in my taxi but your friend  Sport  wouldn't let you.
I don't remember.
It don't matter. I'm gonna get you outta here.
We better make it, or Sport'll get mad. How do you want to make it?
I don't want to make it. I came here to get you out.
You want to make it like this?
Can't you listen to me? Don't you want to get out of here?
Why should I want to get out of here? This is where I live.
But you're the one that wanted to get away. You're the one that came into my cab.
I musta been stoned.
Do they drug you?
Oh, come off it, man.
Listen...
Don't you want to make it? Can't you make it?
Fuck it! Fuck it! Fuck it! Fuck it! Fuck it! Fuck it! Fuck it!
You can do it in my mouth.
Don't you understand anything?
Do you understand why I came here?
I think so. I tried to get into your cab one night, and now you want to come and take me away.
Don't you want to go?
I can leave anytime I want.
But that one night?
I was stoned. That's why they stopped me. When I'm not stoned, I got no place else to go. They just protect me from myself.
Well, I tried.
I understand, mister. It means something, really.
Can I see you again?
That's not hard to do.
No, I mean really. This is nothing for a person to do.
Sure. All right. We'll have breakfast. I get up about one o'clock. Tomorrow.
Well tomorrow noon there's a... I got a...
Well, you want to or not?
O.K. It's a date. I'll see you here, then.
...and after that Sport and I just started hanging out...
Where is home?
Where?
Pittsburgh.
I ain't ever been there, but it don't seem like such a bad place.
Why do you want me to go back to my parents? They hate me. Why do you think I split? There ain't nothin there.
But you can't live like this. It's hell. Girls should live at home.
Didn't you ever hear of women's lib?
God, you are square.
At least I don't walk the streets like a skunk pussy. I don't screw and fuck with killers and junkies.
Who's a killer?
That fella "Sport" looks like a killer to me.
He never killed nobody. He's a Libra.
Huh?
I'm a Libra too. That's why we get along so well.
He looks like a killer.
I think Cancer's make the best lovers. My whole family are air signs.
He shoots dope too.
What makes you so high and mighty? Did you ever look at your own eyeballs in a mirror. You don't get eyes like that from...
He's worse than an animal. Jail's too good for scum like that.
Rock music died in 1970, that's what I think. Before that it was fantastic. I can tell you that. Everybody was crashing, hanging out at the Fillmore. Me and my girlfriend Ann used to go up the fire escape, you know? It was unbelievable. Rock Stars everywhere. That Airplane  that's my group, man. All Libras. But now everybody's split or got sick or busted. I think I'll move to one of those communes in Vermont, you know? That's where all the smart ones went. I stayed here.
I never been to a commune. I don't know. I saw pictures in a magazine, and it didn't look very clean to me.
Why don't you come to a commune with me?
Me? I could never go to a place like that.
Why not?
I... I don't get along with people like that.
You a scorpion? That's it. You're a scorpion. I can tell.
Besides, I've got to stay here.
Why?
I've got something important to do. I can't leave.
What's so important?
I can't say  it's top secret. I'm doing something for the Army. The cab thing is just part time.
You a narc?
Do I look like a narc?
Yeah.
God, I don't know who's weirder, you or me.
What are you going to do about Sport and that old bastard?
Just leave'em. There's plenty of other girls.
You just gonna leave 'em?
What should I do? Call the cops?
Cops don't do nothin.
Sport never treated me bad, honest. Never beat me up once.
You can't leave 'em to do the same to other girls. You should get rid of them.
How?
I don't know. Just should, though. Somebody should kill 'em. Nobody'd miss 'em.
God. I know where they should have a commune for you. They should have a commune for you at Bellevue.
I'm sorry, Iris. I didn't mean that.
You're not much with girls, are you?
Well, Iris, I look at it this way. A lot of girls come into my cab, some of them very beautiful. And I figure all day long men have been after them: trying to touch them, talk to them, ask them out. And they hate it. So I figure the best I can do for them is not bother them at all. So I don't say a thing. I pretend I'm not even there. I figure they'll understand that and appreciate me for it.
Do you really think I should go to the commune?
I think you should go home, but otherwise I think you should go. It would be great for you. You have to get away from here. The city's a sewer, you gotta get out of it.
Sure you don't want to come with me?
I can't. Otherwise, I would.
I sure hate to go alone...
I'll give you the money to go. I don't want you to take any from those guys.
You don't have to.
I want to  what else can I do with my money? You may not see me again  for a while.
What do you mean?
My work may take me out of New York.
Some fleet driver for Bell just got cut up. Just heard it on the radio.
Stick up?
Stick up?
No, just some crazy fucker. Cut half his ear off.
Where.
In the jungle. 122nd.
Huh?
I mean, you handle some pretty rough traffic, huh?
I have.
You carry a piece? You need one?
Nah. I suppose not.
20 bucks?
Yeah. Hey thanks. That's real nice, Travis.
First she did her makeup. You know, I hate it when they do that. I mean she does the whole works, the mascara, the eyeshadow, the lipstick, the rouge...
Not rouge. BlushOn, they call it.
The kind with a brush.
Yeah, that's BlushOn. My wife uses it,
Ask Travis. He's the ladies man.
Well, whatever the fuck it is, she used it. And then the spray perfume. You know, the real sweat kind  and, on top of that, get this, right when we're crossing the Triboro bridge  she changes her pantyhose!
No.
Yeah.
Could you see anything?
Well, she was trying to keep her skirt down, sort of, you know. But it was pretty obvious what she was doing. I mean, Christ, it was rush hour and the traffic's practically standing still.
What did you do?
Threw on the emergency, jumped the seat and fucked her brains out  What do you think! What do I have to do? Draw you a picture?
Yeah.
What was I supposed to do? I was watching in the rear view. You know, just checkin' traffic. So howsit?
Sure. What do you think? She wanted to get out of the cab. I said "Look, you're in the middle of the fucking bridge..."
You said that?
Well, I said, "Lady, please, we're on a bridge..."
And what happened?
She stayed in the cab, what's she gonna do? But she stiffed me. A real skunk.
A real skunk.
Yeah. We went to Harvard together.
We call him DoughBoy cause he likes the dollars. He'll chase a buck straight into Jersey.
Look who's talking? Who else would stay up all night to catch the morning rush hour?
You run all over town, don't you, Travis?
Fuckin' Mau Mau land, that's what it is.
Well, you ever need one, I know a feller that kin getcha a real nice deal. Lotsa shit around.
The cops and company raise hell they find out.
Truck drivers bring up Harlem Specials that blow up in your hand. But this guy don't deal no shit. Just quality. If you ever need anything, I can put you in touch.
For a fee.
For a fee.
I never use mine. But it's a good thing to have. Just as a threat.
Well, if there's this many hackies inside, there must be lots of fares outside. And I'm gonna hustle 'em.
What ya gonna do with all that money, DoughBoy?
Support my kids. Can you dig it? Nice to meet ya, Travis. So long, Wizard. Say hello to Malcolm X for me.
...he called up the Dispatcher last night. Charlie McCall, our dispatcher...
OneBall McCall?
That's the guy. Eddie calls him up and says, "Hey, what do you want me to do. I'm over here at Poly Prep. I got a girl in the back and she doesn't have the fare. She wants me to come in back and collect. What should I do?
Fuckin' OneBall.
And the kid says, "Yeah. She's about 19, goodlookin." McCall says, "What can I tell you?"
What is your name? My name is Travis.
Awh, come off it, Pal.
No, I'm serious, really...
Ya want me to call da boss? Huh? That what you want?
No, no, it's alright. I'll have a big CocaCola  without ice  and a large buttered popcorn, and... ...some of them chocolate covered malted milk balls... and jujukes, a box. They last.
We don't have jujukes. We don't have CocaCola. We only got Royal Crown Cola.
That's fine.
That's a dollar fortyseven.
Tom, come here a moment. I think this canvas report is about ready to go out. Check it out with Andy, and if he okays if, have a copy made for the campaign headquarters in every county. And don't forget to add the new photo releases.
The senator's white paper is almost ready, Bets. Should we wait for that?
Andy usually just sends those to the national media. The local press doesn't know what to do with a position paper until UPI and AP tell them anyway.
I think we should try to get maximum coverage for this new mandatory welfare program. Push the issues.
First push the man, then the issue. Senator Palantine is first of all a dynamic man, an intelligent, interesting, fascinating man.
You forgot "sexy".
No, I didn't forget "sexy".
Just didn't get around to it, huh?
Oh, Tom, please.
Well, for Christsakes, you sound like you're selling... I don't know what... cars... not issues.
Have you ever wondered why CBS News has the highest ratings?
More people watch it.
Alright, forget it if you're not going to be serious,
No, c'mon, I'm listening. I was just...
Just what?
Kidding around... you know, fun.
Maybe if you'd try thinking once in a while, you'd get somewhere.
With who?
Alright, now. You want to know why CBS has the highest ratings? You think their news is any different from NBC, ABC? It's all the same news. Same stories. Same order usually. What, you thought they had good news for people, right? You thought that's why people watched CBS? I'll tell you why people watch CBS. Cronkite. The man. You got it? Not the news, not the issues, the man. If Walter Cronkite told people to eat soap, they'd do it. We are selling cars, goddamn it.
Well, if Cronkite's so great, why don't we run him instead?
That's the last. The finish. Period. Some people can learn. Some people can't. And you wonder why we never get serious 
Sure we could run him. You realize he's already head of his block association.
Have you been noticing anything strange?
No, why?
Why's that taxi driver across the street been staring at us?
What taxi driver?
That taxi driver. The one that's been sitting here.
How long has he been there?
I don't know  but it feels like a long time.
Try holding the match like this.
This is gotta be a game, right?
This I gotta see.
Ouch!
Oh, are you all right?
I'm great. Always set my fingers on fire. If you want to see another trick. I do this thing with my nose.
No. I just wanted to see if you could light it that way. The guy at the newsstand can.
Ah, yes, the guy at the newsstand, Mr. Asbestos...
He happens to be missing fingers. I first noticed when 
Is he Italian?
No, why?
You sure he's not Italian?
He's Black, OK?
Well, If he had been Italian, they could have been shot off. Sometimes the mob does that to teach guys a lesson, If they blow a job or something.
As I said, he isn't Italian. Besides, I thought they just killed them.
Don't be naive. They can't kill everybody. They have different punishments for different things. Like, if they kill a stool pigeon, they leave a canary on the body. It's symbolic.
Why don't they leave a pigeon instead of a canary?
I don't know. Maybe they don't leave a canary. Don't be technical. What I'm saying is if this newsstand guy's Italian and his fingers are gone, maybe he's a thief.
First, he's not Italian. Second he's not a thief. I noticed the fingers when he was getting my change  the right change. Two of his fingers are missing. Just stubs. Like they were blown away. I was putting my change in my purse when I saw him get out a cigarette. I couldn't help watching. I was dying to see how he'd light it.
With the other hand, right?
No, stupid. With the stubs. That's the whole point.
I know that guy. His hand looks like a paw. An old Black guy, the newsstand at 
No, this is young  well, I'm never sure how old Black people are  but, anyway, he isn't old. That's for sure.
Show me how he did that again.
Betsy, come over here a moment.
What is it? I'm busy.
Just follow me.
No, I don't think so. That's someone else.
Now look more closely. Look around the eyes and chin. See? See there?
Is that so? But what do you think of Charles Palantine?
Who mam?
Charles Palantine. The man you want to volunteer to help elect president.
Oh, I think he's a wonderful man. Make a great, great President.
You want to canvass?
Yes, mam.
Well, that's not exactly what the Senator has proposed. You might not want to canvass, but there is plenty more other work we need done: Office work, filing, poster hanging.
I'm a good worker, Betsy mam, a real good worker.
If you talk to Tom, he'll assign you to something.
If you don't mind, mam, I'd rather work for you.
Well, we're all working tonight.
Well, Betsy mam, I drive a taxi at night.
Well, then, what is it you exactly want to do?
If you don't mind, mam, I'd be mighty pleased if you'd go out and have some coffee and pie with me.
Why?
Well, Betsy mam, I drive by this place here in my taxi many times a day. And I watch you sitting here at this big long desk with these telephones, and I say to myself, that's a lonely girl. She needs a friend. And I'm gonna be her friend.
I don't know...
It's just to the corner, mam. In broad daytime. Nothing can happen. I'll be there to protect you.
All right. All right. I'm taking a break at four o'clock. If you're here then we'll go to the corner and have some coffee and pie.
Oh, I appreciate that, Betsy mam. I'll be here at four o'clock exactly. And... ah... Betsy...
Yes?
My name is Travis.
Thank you, Travis.
We've signed up 15,000 Palantine volunteers in New York so far. The organizational problems are becoming just staggering.
I know what you mean. I've got the same problems. I just can't get things organized. Little things, I mean. Like my room, my possessions. I should get one of those signs that says, "One of these days I'm gonna get organezizied"
Travis, I never ever met anybody like you before.
I can believe that.
Where do you live?
Oh, uptown. You know. Some joint. It ain't much.
So why did you decide to drive a taxi at night?
I had a regular job for a while, days. You know, doin' this, doin' that. But I didn't have anything to do at night. I got kinda lonely, you know, just wandering around. So I decided to works nights. It ain't good to be alone, you know.
After this job, I'm looking forward to being alone for a while.
Yeah, well... In a cab you get to meet people. You meet lotsa people. It's good for you.
What kind of people?
Just people people, you know. Just people. Had a dead man once.
Really?
He'd been shot. I didn't know that. He just crawled into the back seat, said "West 45th Street" and conked out.
What did you do?
I shut the meter off, for one thing. I knew I wasn't going to get paid. Then I dropped him off at the cop shop. They took him.
That's really something.
Oh, you see lots of freaky stuff in a cab. Especially when the moon's out.
The moon?
The full moon. One night I had three or four weirdos in a row and I looked up and, sure enough, there it was  the full moon.
Com'on, Travis. It's not that bad. I take lots of taxis.
I know. I could have picked you up.
Huh?
Late one night. About three. At the plaza.
Three in the morning? I don't think so. I have to go to bed early. I work days. It must have been somebody else.
No. It was you. You had some manila folders and a pink bag from Saks.
You're right! Now I remember! It was after the Western regional planners were in town and the meeting went late. The next day I was completely bushed. It was unbelievable.
If it wasn't for a drunk I would have picked you up. He wanted to go to the DMZ.
The DMZ?
South Bronx. The worst. I tried to ditch him, but he was already in the cab, so I had to take him. That's the law. Otherwise I would have picked you up.
That would have been quite a coincidence.
You'd be surprised how often you see the same people, get the same fare. People have patterns. They do more or less the same things every day. I can tell.
Well, I don't go to the Plaza every night.
I didn't mean you. But just ordinary people. A guy I know  DoughBoy  met his wife that way. They got to talking. She said she usually caught the bus so he started picking her up at the bus stop, taking her home with the flag up.
That's very romantic. Some of your fares must be interesting. See any stars, politicians, deliver any babies yet?
Well, no... not really... had some famous people in the cab. I got this guy who makes lasers. Not regular lasers, not the big kind. Little lasers, pocket sized, small enough to clip your belt like a transistor radio, like a gun, you know. Like a ray gun. Zap.
What hours do you work?
I work a single, which means there's no replacement  no second man on the cab. Six to six, sometimes eight. Seventytwo hours a week.
You mean you work seventytwo hours a week.
Sometimes 76 or 80. Sometimes I squeeze a few more hours in the morning. Eighty miles a day, a hundred miles a night.
You must be rich.
It keeps ya busy.
You know what you remind me of?
What?
That song by Kris Kristofferson, where it's said "Like a pusher, party truth, partly fiction, a walking contradiction".
I'm no pusher, Betsy. Honest. I never have pushed.
I didn't mean that, Travis. Just the part about the contradiction.
Oh. Who was that again?
The singer?
Yeah. Yes. I don't follow music too much.
Kris Kristofferson.
You didn't have to spend your money  ?
He'll, what else can I do with it all?
Travis, you haven't even played the record?
Yeah, well my stereo player is broke. But I'm sure the record is OK.
Your stereo broke? God, I could hardly stand that. I live on music.
I don't follow music much. I'd like to though. Honest.
So you haven't heard this record yet?
No. I thought maybe you could play it for me on your player.
What are you doing?
I bought a couple of tickets.
But this is a porno movie.
No, these are the kind that couples go to. They're not like the other movies. All kinds of couples go. Honest. I've seen them.
Damn.
What's wrong?
I forgot to get the CocaCola.
Where are you going?
I'm leaving.
What do you mean?
These are not the kind of movies I go to.
Well, I don't follow movies too much...
You mean these are the only kind of movies you go to?
This is sort of high class...
I mean porno movies.
Well... mostly...
My God!
We can go to another movie if you like, I don't care. I got money. There's plenty...
...there's plenty of movies around here. I haven't seen any of them, but I'm sure they're good.
No, Travis. You're a sweet guy and all that, but I think this is it. I'm going home.
You mean you don't want to go to a movie? There's plenty of movies around here.
No, I don't feel so good. We're just two very different kinds of people, that's all.
Huh?
It's very simple. You go your way, I'll go mine. Thanks anyway, Travis.
But... Betsy...
I'm getting a taxi.
What about the record?
Keep it.
Can I call you?
Hello, Travis.
Hello, Betsy.
I see where Palantine got the nomination.
Yes. It won't be long now. Seventeen days.
Well, I hope he wins.
How are you, Travis? I read about you in the papers.
Oh, I got over that. It was nothing, really. The papers always blow these things up. A little stiffness. That'll go away. I just sleep more, that's all.
No, no, please. This fare's on me. Please.
Thank you, Travis.
Travis?
Yeah.
Maybe I'll see you again sometime, huh?
Sure.
You got a .44 Magnum?
That's an expensive gun.
I got money.
Some of these guns are like toys, but a Smith and Wesson, man, you can hit somebody over the head with it and it will still come back dead on. Nothing beats quality. You interested in an automatic?
I want a .32. Revolver. And a palm gun. That .22 there.
That's the Colt .25  a fine little gun. Don't do a lot of damage, but it's as fast as the Devil. Handy little gun, you can carry it almost anywhere. I'll throw it in for another $125.
How much for everything.
The .32's $150  and you're really getting a good deal now  and all together it comes to, ah, seven eighty five for four pieces and a holster. Hell, I'll give you the holster, we'll make it seventyfive and you've got a deal  a good one.
How much to get a permit to carry?
Well, you're talking big money now. I'd say at least five grand, maybe more, and it would take a while to check it out. The way things are going now $5.000 is probably low. You see, I try not to fool with the smalltime crap. Too risky, too little bread. Say 6 G's, but if I get the permit it'll be as solid as the Empire State Building.
Nah, this'll be fine.
You can't carry in a cab even with a permit  so why bother?
Is there a firing range around?
Sure, here, take this card, go to this place and give 'em the card. They'll charge you, but there won't be any hassle.
You in Nam? Can't help but notice your jacket?
Huh?
Vietnam? I saw it on your jacket. Where were you? Bet you got to handle a lot of weapons out there.
Yeah. I was all around. One hospital, then the next.
It's hell out there all right. A real shiteatin' war. I'll say this, though: It's bringing a lot of fantastic guns. The market's flooded. Colt automatics are all over.
They'd never get me to go back. They'd have to shoot me first. You got anything to carry these in?
You like ball games?
Huh?
I can get you front and center. What do you like? I can get you Mets, Knicks, Rangers? Hell, I can get you the Mayor's box.
Nah. I ain't interested.
Dickie Greenleaf?
Yes?
Inspector Roverini. Can we come in?
It's a terrible shock, eh? What time did Signor Miles leave yesterday?
I can't be absolutely sure  8? 9? We'd both taken on far too many drinks  but it was dark, it was certainly dark when I walked him down to his car.
So Signor Miles drove away and you did what?
I went to bed. Freddie's a big man, but I'm in trouble after a couple of drinks. I've suffered all day. Who found him?
Senta. We have to ask you to stay in Rome.
Yes, if it's going to help, certainly.
So, the Doctor, he has to make the   come se dice?
Postmortem?
Yes, exactly, but his first, his first conclusion was that Signor Miles was killed not later than seven o'clock yesterday evening.
Well, he certainly wasn't dead when he drove off in his car.
No.
Can we go up? Do you mind?
Of course. What happened to your face?
My scooter. I fell off. Getting chased by photographers.
The telephone, the press, I've been, I'm feeling hounded  do you think you could not give out my address?
Never. We've had many requests and, of course, we say no  even to your fiance.
I really don't want to see anybody.
Even your fiance...?
Even her.
What about Thomas Ripley?
What about Ripley?
Yes, sure, we did go to San Remo. That was months ago.
November, I thought.
Was it? Did you speak to Tom?
November 7th is my information.
I don't remember the exact date.
And when did you last see Signor Ripley?
A few days ago.
Does he stay with you here?
No!
No. Here is a pattern. Two days ago Freddie Miles is dead  he leaves your apartment and is murdered. Yesterday a little boat is found in San Remo full of rocks, and the owner tells the Police it was stolen on November 7th. We look at hotel records and we see oh! Dickie Greenleaf is staying in San Remo and then our boatman remembers two Americans taking a boat.
It's not a pattern, it's a coincidence. There must be fifty hotels in San Remo, there must have been a hundred people renting a boat on that day.
31 people.
31 people.
That is Miss Sherwood now. Marge Sherwood.
Let her in, what's the difference? Let her in. No, actually, no, I'd like it very much if you would ask her to come back later.
Thank you.
May I ask... why would you speak to your friend and not your fiance?
I think I just said. Ripley was handling some business for me, nor does Mr Ripley want to marry me. Nor did he ask me every day if I would marry him. And when.
Do you have a photograph of Signor Ripley?
I'm not in the habit of carrying around photographs of my male friends.
Now I think I have upset you. My English perhaps is coarse.
It is a little coarse, yes.
Sorry. No one has seen Signor Ripley since San 
I have!
You have, yes.
No, I have and so has Miss Sherwood, ask her! And if I could remember which hotel he was staying at  the Goldoni!  Tom was staying at the Goldoni.
Good. The Goldoni. Yes  you're right. A coincidence. I look forward to our next meeting when I will be more careful with my English and persuade you to play me your saxophone. Alto.
Absolutely.
I have a witness who thinks they saw two men getting into Mr Miles' car. She wants to identify you in a  confronto  lineup. Tomorrow then?
Tomorrow.
Ditto.
Where are you hiding him? He's impossible, isn't he?
Yes, what happened? I heard you were desperate to come. I was looking forward to rowing you around.
I am. I really am. And I've been travelling. I just can't seem to get that far north.
Well hurry, before we sink. Should I give you my telephone number in Venice?
Thanks.
Will we see you later?
I can't later.
And tomorrow?
Tomorrow's possible. Do you know Dinelli's? Piazza di Spagna?
I know the Piazza di Spagna. What time?
Ten thirty?
We'll be there.
Okay. Marge, see you tomorrow. It's really good to meet you.
Sorry, sorry. Had to renew my papers. Italian bureaucracy  never one stamp when they can make you line up for three. Have you been waiting long?
Not at all. Morning Tom.
Hi. Sorry. You okay? You look as if you've seen a ghost...
My God.
But the point is Dickie  well we know this  Dickie loves Marge and he misses her and apparently he's come to his senses...
It's fantastic. I feel guilty. Marge doesn't understand this, but anytime Dickie does something I feel guilty.
Peter, I'm really sorry to put you through this. I just couldn't face going to the police by myself when my Italian's so rotten.
Don't be daft. It's fine. I'm delighted you finally made it to Venice. I'm delighted, contrary to rumour, you're still in one piece?
What rumour?
That Dickie murdered you and is travelling under your passport. I know, ridiculous.
Welcome to Venice. This place reeks, doesn't it? Can you smell it? Ugh. Sorry. Not the best way to spend your first day.
It's okay.
Anyway I've got to the bottom of the delay. Finally. We're waiting for someone from Rome.
What do you mean? They're sending someone from Rome?
That's good, isn't it?
No, but I thought that didn't happen in Italy, that each region was completely separate! I was sure that was the 
You've seen the papers, you know what a big deal it's been here. American tourist murdered 
It's ridiculous but now you've mentioned the stench I can hardly breathe.
In Rome, about three weeks ago. I knew that one.
A Roma, circa tre settimane fa.
I've been backpacking.
I don't know how to translate that. E difficile... il signor Ripley... dormiva all'aperto, con un...
No.
No. By the way, officially there are no Italian homosexuals. Makes Leonardo, Michelangelo very inconvenient.
Tell him I have a fiance, Dickie has a fiance and Freddie Miles probably had a string of them.
Il signor Ripley ha una fidanzata, il signor Dickie ha una fidanzata e probabilmente il signor Freddie Miles ha molte fidanzate.
What did he say?
He says so many fiances.
He wants to know if you killed Freddie Miles and then killed Dickie Greenleaf?
No I did not. I did not kill Freddie Miles and then kill Dickie Greenleaf. Is he accusing me? Ask him if he's accusing me!
He's already angry, I don't think 
Just because he doesn't like Americans!
Can you imagine, if Dickie did kill Freddie, what must that be like? To wake up every morning, how can you? Just wake up and be a person, drink a coffee...?
Whatever you do, however terrible, however hurtful  it all makes sense, doesn't it? Inside your head. You never meet anybody who thinks they're a bad person or that they're cruel.
But you're still tormented, you must be, you've killed somebody...
Don't you put the past in a room, in the cellar, and lock the door and just never go in there? Because that's what I do.
Probably. In my case it's probably a whole building.
Then you meet someone special and all you want to do is toss them the key, say open up, step inside, but you can't because it's dark and there are demons and if anybody saw how ugly it was...
I keep wanting to do that  fling open the door  let the light in, clean everything out. If I could get a huge eraser and rub everything out... starting with myself... the thing is, Peter, if...
No key, huh?
I'm sorry. I was asleep. I must have fallen asleep.
You look ghastly, Tom. Are you okay?
Not guilty.
I'll fix some drinks.
Are you okay?
I'm fine.
Do you want me to stick around?
It's okay.
Or I could come back.
Tom, are you okay?
You try. You try talking to her.
Tom. Tom! Tell me, what's going on?
I give up.
Ask me what I want to change about this moment.
What do you want to change about this moment?
Nothing.
Hello. What are you up to?
All kinds of things. Making plans.
Plans  good, plans for tonight or plans for the future?
I don't know. Both. My plan right now is to go up on deck, look at the sunset. Come with me.
You go. I don't want to get dressed yet. Come back though. Come back. You know, you look so relaxed, like a completely different person.
Well, that's entirely your fault. And, if I fall overboard, that'll be your fault too.
How was it?
Good. But I think we should stay in here for the rest of the trip.
Was that Meredith?
Was who Meredith?
Meredith Logue. You were kissing somebody. Looked like Meredith.
Hardly kissing. Kissing off.
Didn't look that way  you know  from a distance.
I lied. To her. She thought she'd seen you.
Why lie?
Dickie and Peter, that's just too good gossip, isn't it?
Or Tom and Peter even.
Well that would be even better gossip.
Really, why? Sorry, I'm completely lost.
I know. I'm lost, too. I'm going to be stuck in the basement, aren't I, that's my, that's my  terrible and alone and dark  and I've lied about who I am, and where I am, and so nobody can ever find me.
What do you mean lied about who you are?
I suppose I always thought  better to be a fake somebody than a real nobody.
What are you talking about  you're not a nobody! That's the last thing you are.
Peter, I... I...
And don't forget. I have the key.
You have the key. Tell me some good things about Tom Ripley. Don't get up. Just tell me some nice things.
Good things about Tom Ripley? Could take some time!... Tom is talented. Tom is tender... Tom is beautiful...
You're such a liar...
...Tom is a mystery...
Ho assunto io la guida delle indagini in seguito alla negativa valutazione delle disdicevoli circostanze verificatesi con il mio predecessore Roverini che come e noto non e riuscito a impedire il verificarsi della scomparsa del signor Greenleaf, il quale era l'unica persona al momento passibile di incriminazione del reato di omicidio del signor Miles.
He's taken over the case because... they're annoyed the previous chap let Dickie... disappear when he was the only, he was the only suspect in Freddie's murder.
Quando e stata l'ultima volta che il signor Ripley ha visto il signor Greenleaf?
Dove e stato il signor Ripley da allora?
Where have you been since then?
All'aperto? Col freddo che ha fatto?
He thinks it's very cold to be sleeping outside.
Il signor Ripley ha sviluppate tendenze omosessuali?
Are you a homosexual? Interesting nonsequitur.
Non e questo il luogo per le vostre conversazioni private!
A ragione. A ragione.
Hmm. C'e questa...
Questa lettera e stata trovata nell'abitazione del signor Richard Greenleaf a Roma.
They found this in Dickie's place in Rome.
What's your secret?
Excuse me?
No, it's just  you are American, aren't you?  no, I just, I have so much luggage, and you're so, uh, streamlined. It's humiliating.
I'm Meredith, by the way. Meredith Randall.
Dickie, Dickie Greenleaf. Hello.
Hello.
You're not the Shipping Greenleaf's?
Trying not to be. Trying to jump ship.
So now, did they put your suitcase in the wrong pile? It's just  upstairs  weren't you under the R stand? I thought I saw you there.
My father wants me in New York. He builds boats. I'd rather sail them. I travel under my mother's name.
Which is?
Emily. Just kidding.
The funny thing is, I'm not Randall either. I'm Logue.
As in the...?
As in the Textile Logues. Trying to shrug off the dress. I travel under my mother's name, too.
Randall.
Right.
But you're going skiing with us Yankees, aren't you?
What?
At Christmas. To Cortina with Freddie Miles and 
How did you know that?
Everybody knows Freddie Miles.
Is Freddie in Rome?
Now? I don't think so. But I've met him, of course, and we've chatted and I know about you and Marge and Mongi and what an unreliable rat you are. Freddie said you were a rat and I thought to myself now I know why he travels under R.
I've left Marge, Meredith. And Mongi. So the rat's here now, in Rome.
Sorry, I wouldn't have made a joke if 
Don't be sorry. I've never been happier. I feel like I've been handed a new life.
The truth is if you've had money your entire life, even if you despise it, which we do  agreed?  you're only truly comfortable around other people who have it and despise it.
I know.
I've never admitted that to anyone.
Show me the other one again. I like them both.
I'll take them both.
Let's go.
I thought you were enjoying yourself?
Let's take a Carozza and look at the moon.
You're crazy! It's freezing out there.
C'mon, I need to talk to you. Just the two of us.
Okay then, you're crazy.
Don't worry. Really. Don't worry.
You're such a pal to understand. It's as if Marge is here now  I look at you and I see her face  and I can't, whatever I'm feeling towards you  I just can't...
No, I absolutely understand. Of course.
Otherwise you'd be fighting me off.
Beating you away.
Will you meet me tomorrow? Just to say goodbye in the daylight, properly? So it's not just this, it's too... you should always save pain for daylight...
Oh Meredith, I'm sorry. Of course I'll meet you. Let's have coffee in the morning at Dinelli's.
I don't  is that by the Spanish Steps?
Exactly. 10.30 
Dickie, my God!
Hello Meredith.
I was looking at you, your clothes, I wouldn't have known you...
Well, you've spotted me and so you get the reward.
What?
Just kidding. Are you alone?
Hardly. I couldn't be less alone.
Of course. Aunt Joan.
And co. A lot of co. Oh, God, I've thought about you so much.
I've thought about you.
When I thought about you I was mostly hating you. Where've you been hiding?
I haven't been hiding. I've been in Police custody. They've been trying to flush out Freddie's killer.
You're kidding.
They're letting me have this vacation. Which is why the getup. Which is why you haven't heard from me.
You know, the whole world thinks you killed Freddie? It's terrible.
I know. Look, I can't talk now. Later. Later?
So  are you travelling under R?
You know what  I am.
Dickie, are you with Peter Smith Kingsley? I bet you are. My aunt thought she saw him.
Peter SmithKingsley? I haven't seen him in months. No, I'm alone.
Peter SmithKingsley. I've heard about you, of course  from Marge, and Dickie.
No glasses.
Look there's Meredith thingy  who's that, Marge?  They're in textiles... Meredith  God, how awful, I've spent Christmas in her house...!
I don't know her. He hasn't called, he's hardly written, just these cryptic notes. You don't just dump people.
No, we're meeting another friend. Tom Ripley.
Do you know Tom?
We think he's had a change of heart. So we should be celebrating.
I hope so.
That was moving, wasn't it? When Meredith said  Meredith's the American girl I saw last night, I know her, at the Opera, she's been seeing something of Dickie 
So you found Peter...
I think we sort of found each other.
Where's Dickie's father?
He's not coming till the morning. Evidently his stomach  I don't think the food here is agreeing with him.
Is this you?
No, it's Tom's. Splendid, eh?
Golly. Who's paying for this?
This is spectacular.
That's why Tom wanted you to stay. It's better than squeezing into my room, and I know how you hate hotels.
A hotel would've been fine. We'll have to tell Mr Greenleaf how far his dollar has stretched.
What's funny?
No, nothing. I'm just thinking about when Tom arrived in Mongi. And now look at you.
Dickie? Do you know Dickie?
You were at the Opera? Well, that explains  yes I was there. I was there with Dickie.
I told you! I knew it!
Marge, I don't know you, so I have no right, but Dickie loves you. He's  I think you'll find he's coming home to you.
How would you know that?
He told me everything. I was supposed to meet him fifteen minutes ago, so I... I'm going to go now, I think. Unless he meant us to meet  which would be a little cruel, wouldn't it?
Pleasure to meet you, Dickie's made a fine catch. I know Emily thinks so.
What's going on?
You were right about the telephones. There are no lines, there's some problem.
Hello Tom. You're off? What are your plans?
Back, I suppose, slowly as I can.
I never said that!
Bird. That's jazz.
Which is ridiculous. Boats are female, everyone knows you can't call a boat after a man.
He's not a man, he's a god.
Dickie, you can't even drive a car! No, what we need urgently is an icebox. What do you think, Tom? Agree with me and I'll be your friend for life.
I absolutely agree with Marge.
That ring's so great. The green one.
Tom, I love you! See! I bought it for him, for his birthday.
It's superb.
I have to find a birthday present for Frances. Perhaps you can help me?
Frances?
My fiance.
You really should go in, it's marvelous.
I'm fine.
Are you okay?
Sure.
The thing with Dickie  it's like the sun shines on you and it's glorious, then he forgets you and it's very very cold.
So I'm learning.
He's not even aware of it. When you've got his attention you feel like you're the only person in the world. That's why everybody loves him. Other times...
Tell me, why is it when men play they always play at killing each other...? I'm sorry about Cortina by the way.
What about Cortina?
Didn't Dick say?  He talked to Freddie... apparently it's not going to work out  Freddie says there aren't enough rooms.
Dickie!
I'll go and see what's the matter.
I'll go.
Hello Marge.
Tom, you startled me! You're back.
How are you? Sorry. Is your book going well?
Yes  I'm on a good streak, thanks.
I was just looking at you  so quiet.
Where's Dickie?
I think he's planning on staying in Rome for a few days.
Ha. Did he say why?
I don't know. I don't understand Dickie, Marge, so your guess is as good as mine.
What does that mean?
Well, one day I'm invited skiing, the next day I'm not, one day we're all one family, the next day he wants to be alone. You tell me.
Is that what he said  he wanted to be alone?
He was thinking of you, Marge  he asked me to deliver this.
Thanks. He knows I love this, although why it couldn't have waited...
Errand number one  deliver Marge's perfume. Errand number two, pack some clothes and his precious saxophone.
How long's he staying for?
Search me. I guess we're abandoned.
He hates being confronted.
I think you're right.
Oh my God. Tom.
Marge, how are you? What are you doing in Rome?
Is he here? Are you with Dickie?
No. Hello, I'm Tom Ripley.
Is he really not here?
Marge, you know Dickie has I hate Opera tattooed on his chest.
You were going to Venice.
Dickie was at the Opera last night.
I don't believe it. Wild horses wouldn't drag Dickie to 
He was there with someone. So I suppose she must have dragged him  that's not fair. I'm going back to Mongi. I think Dickie's coming home. I'm going to go home.
Really? That's swell. No, I was just  you're way ahead of me! Great!
Did he kill Freddie?
Marge, when did you get here?
Tell me the truth. Did he kill Freddie?
I'd swear he didn't. Of course he didn't.
I tried again, waiting here, watching for him. Instead it's you. Whenever I look for Dickie I find you. What happened to your face?
Dickie did it.
Dickie?
My face! There was an argument. I said some things I shouldn't have. About you. About the appalling way he's treating you, all of us. And the next thing I know he's launched himself at me. Are you getting on?
What?
Get on. I'll take you to him.
Where does Dickie live?
We passed it a few blocks back, where the police were. The Palazzo Gioia. They don't even know I'm in Rome and I'm not going to incriminate Dickie 
Perhaps I shouldn't go either.
No, well go if you want to, but don't talk to the Police about my face  they find out he hit me  he's got a temper  he could've hit Freddie. Good luck, Marge. I'll catch up with you later.
Hello Peter, so good to see you.
Hello Marge!
Tom.
I was looking forward to seeing him.
Dickie hasn't killed himself. I'm sure of that. There's a private detective on the case now  a Mr MacCarron  Dickie's father's employing him.
That's a terrific idea.
He's American. He's already discovered Dickie cashed checks for $1000 the day before he disappeared.
Look at me what?
To the manner born.
Very.
And you, sir? Any better?
Did Dickie's Dad go?
He's having an early night.
Poor man. We were knocking on that door for ever. I think I've broken my strap.
Tom?
Marge, I'm in the bath. Won't be long.
Tom, I need to talk to you. It's urgent.
I found Dickie's rings.
What?
You've got Dickie's rings.
I can explain.
Dickie promised me he would never take off this ring.
Let me put on some clothes and then we can talk about this.
I have to tell Mr Greenleaf. I have to tell Mr Greenleaf. I have to tell Mr Greenleaf.
Marge, calm down, you're being hysterical.
He promised me. I swear I'll never take off this ring until the day 
Shut up! Shut up!
Marge? Where are you going?
I was looking for a needle and thread. I wasn't snooping. I was looking for a needle and thread to mend my bra.
The scent you're wearing. I bought it for you, not Dickie. The thing about Dickie. So many things. The day he was late back from Rome  I tried to tell you this  he was with another girl. I'm not talking about Meredith, another girl we met in a bar. He couldn't be faithful for five minutes. So when he makes a promise it doesn't mean what it means when you make a promise. Or I do. He has so many realities, Dickie, and he believes them all. He lies. He lies, that's his... half the time he doesn't even realize.
Today, for the first time, I've even wondered whether he might have killed Freddie. He would get so crazy if anybody contradicted him  well, you know that. Marge. I loved you  you might as well know  I loved you, and because he knew I loved you, he let you think I loved him. Didn't you see, couldn't you see? I don't know, maybe it's grotesque to say this now, so just write it on a piece of paper or something, and keep it in your purse for a rainy day. Tom loves me.
Why do you have Dickie's rings?
I told you. He gave them to me.
Why? When?
I feel as if you haven't heard anything I've been saying to you.
I don't believe you.
It's all true.
I don't believe a single word you've said.
But I hope that note goes to New York in your purse, for a rainy day.
What are you going to do now, Tom?
I don't know. Peter has a concert in Athens next month  and he's asked if I want to go along, help out. He says goodbye by the way  he's in rehearsal, otherwise 
Why do I think there's never been a Ripley rainy day?
What?
I know it was you  I know it was you, Tom. I know it was you. I know you killed Dickie. I know it was you.
Oh Marge.
Is Mr Greenleaf here?
Mr Ripley? I'm Alvin MacCarron.
I could probably see my bedroom from here. I can see my house. When you see where you live from a distance it's like a dream, isn't it?
I don't care for B.S. I don't care to hear it. I don't care to speak it.
Okay.
Why do you think Dickie's father sent him to Europe in the first place? Did you know at Princeton Dickie Greenleaf halfkilled a boy?
Mr Greenleaf appreciates your loyalty. He really does. Marge, she's got a hundred theories, but there are a few things she doesn't know. We hope she never knows.
I hope she never knows.
Three different people saw Dickie get into Freddie Miles' car. A man who won't identify himself because he was jumping someone else's wife at the time saw Dickie removing license plates from a red sports car. The Police know about this man because he happens to be a Policeman.
Thanks so much for inviting me tonight.
Can you bear it? We hear you're a friend of Freddie's  he has I hate Opera tattooed on his chest.
There's room for a whole libretto on Freddie's chest.
I'm sure we've met.
I was sure we'd met, weren't you, Ted? This is Herbert Greenleaf's boy.
Thanks, yes, I think we did.
One minute you people are children and the next you're getting tattooed.
Pretty good. Sticking with hot water.
Where's Mr MacCarron?
San Remo. The police are amateurs. Well, my boy, it's come to a pretty pass, hasn't it?
This theory, the letter he left for you, the Police think that's a clear indication he was planning on doing something... to himself.
I just don't believe that!
You don't want to, dear. I'd like to talk to Tom alone  perhaps this afternoon? Would you mind? Marge, what a man may say to his sweetheart and what he'll admit to another fellow 
Such as?
What a waste of lives and opportunities and 
I don't know, I don't know, I just know it.
Marge, there's female intuition, and then there are facts 
Most enjoyable. Herbert Greenleaf.
Tom Ripley. Thank you, sir.
I see you were at Princeton. Then you'll most likely know our son, Dick. Dickie Greenleaf...
Could you ever conceive of going to Italy, Tom, persuade my son to come home? I'd pay you. I'd pay you 1000 dollars.
I've always wanted to go to Europe, sir, but...
Good. Now you can go for a reason.
Mr Greenleaf.
Tom. How are you? You look well.
I'm well, thank you.
Far cry from New York.
Yes it is.
Marge, good morning. Unusual weather.
Yes. What's the detective hoping to find in San Remo?
He's being thorough, that's all. I'm learning about my son, Tom, now he's missing. I'm learning a great deal about him. I hope you can fill in some more blanks for me. Marge has been good enough to do that, about Mongibello.
I'll try my best, sir. Obviously I'll do anything to help Dickie.
No, Marge doesn't know the half of it.
I think it might hurt her to know.
And his passport photo? Did you hear? To scratch out your own face like that  can you imagine  the frame of mind you'd have to be in? I've thought about going to the police but I can't face it. I can't face anything anymore.
I feel guilty. I feel like I pushed him away. I spoke and he heard you.
Well, if we all pushed him away what about him pushing us away? You've been a great friend to my son. Everything is someone else's fault. We all want to sow wild oars. Somebody's got to  what's the word? The moment someone confronts him he lashes out. He lashes out. You know, people always say you can't choose your parents, but you can't choose your children.
Tom.
Hello, sir. Marge, you should have waited, didn't Peter tell you I'd come by and pick you up?
Marge has been telling us about the rings.
You know I feel ridiculous I didn't mention them yesterday  I clean forgot  ridiculous.
Perhaps you didn't mention them because there's only one conclusion to be drawn.
I'm going to take Marge for a little walk, Tom. Mr MacCarron wants to talk with you.
We could go down to the bar  no need for you to 
No, he should talk to you alone.
Hello?
Dickie?
Who is it?
It's Freddie. Let me in.
Hello, Freddie, it's Tom, Tom Ripley.
Oh hello, where's Dickie? How are you?
Yes, I'm good, thank you. Dickies at dinner. He's at Otello's. Do you know it?
I don't think he's at dinner at 6.30pm. If you said he was still at lunch I'd believe you. Incredible. The guy has disappeared off the face of the earth.
I guess.
The landlady  as far as I could tell, the landlady said he was here right now.
He's gone to dinner! Search the place. I can't think why you would imagine Dickie would hide from you.
Because he's been hiding from me  what happened at Christmas?
What about Christmas?
He was supposed to come skiing. I didn't get a cable or a call or a note or, frankly, a fart.
Of course, he's been very involved in his music, hasn't he? I think his theory is, you know, you have to go into a cocoon before you can become a butterfly.
Which is horseshit. Have you heard him play that thing? He can't.
How did you find him? It's such an out of the way apartment. Can I fix you a drink?
No thanks. Some kid at the American Express Office. Are you living here?
No. No, I'm staying here for a few days, in Rome. That's a new piano, so you prob 
Did this place come furnished? It doesn't look like Dickie. Horrible isn't it?  so bourgeois.
You should watch that!
In fact the only thing which looks like Dickie is you.
Hardly.
Have you done something to your hair?
Freddie, do you have something to say?
What? I think I'm saying it. Something's going on. He's either converted to Christianity  or to something else.
I suggest you ask Dickie that yourself. Otello's is on delle Croce, just off the Corso.
Is it on "delle Croce, just off the Corso"? You're a quick study, aren't you? Last time you didn't know your ass from your elbow, now you're giving me directions. That's not fair, you probably do know your ass from your elbow. I'll see you.
Frederico!
Ciao bello. Don't you want to fuck every woman you see. Just once.
This is Tom Ripley. Freddie Miles.
Hey, if I'm late, think what her husband's saying!
Dick  you've got to hear this!
Listen, just take one of mine when we get back. Don't worry about it. I did the Forum with Marge and, frankly, once is enough in anyone's life.
Come on, Frederico, do you really have to go back? At least stick around for the Festival of the Madonna.
I don't think so. Come back with me to Rome. There's this great new club. Have some drinks, lotta ladies...
Do you think you can steer this thing?
Sure.
Just point her at Capri and avoid the rocks.
What are you doing?
Margemaintenance.
Aye, aye.
Who's this?
It's Tom. Tom Ripley. We were at Princeton together.
Okay. And did we know each other?
Well, I knew you, so I suppose you must have known me.
Princeton is like a fog, America's like a fog. This is Marge Sherwood. Tom  sorry, what was it?
Ripley. Hullo. How do you do.
Nothing. Nothing much. Passing through.
Passing through! You're so white. Did you ever see a guy so white, Marge? Gray, actually.
It's just an undercoat.
Say again?
You know, a primer.
That's funny.
Who? Oh, Tom, hello, how are you? We thought you'd disappeared. We were going to send out a search party.
No, still here.
I'm intruding.
Can you mix a martini?
Sure.
Forging signatures. Telling lies. Impersonating practically anybody.
That's three. Nobody should have more than one talent. Okay, do an impression.
Now? Okay. Wait a minute. Talent  The only talent my son has is for cashing his allowance.
What? What's this?
I like to sail, believe me, I love to sail! Instead I make boats and other people sail them.
Stop! It's too much! You're making all the hairs on my neck stand up!
Jazz, let's face it, it's just an insolent noise.
I feel like he's here. Horrible. Like the old bastard is here right now! That's brilliant! How do you know him?
I met him in New York.
Marge! You've got to hear this!
Could you ever conceive of going there, Tom, and bringing him back?
What?
I'd pay you. If you would go to Italy and persuade my son to come home. I'd pay you $1000.
I'm never going back!
No, I think your mother, her illness 
It's got nothing to do with my mother! She's had leukemia for  ! This is what makes me boil about him! HE wants me back!  it's got nothing to do with my mother.
I don't know, Dickie, I'm just telling you what I 
Go back! Go back to New York or call him if you can find a telephone that works, and tell him wild horses wouldn't drag me back to him or his shipyard.
You like jazz!
I love jazz.
This is the best. Marge says she likes jazz, but she things Glenn Miller is jazz.
Bird! Ask me the name of my sailboat 
I don't know. What's the name of your sailboat?
Bird!
Good afternoon!
What time is it? Oh God! Do you always type your letters? That should be two Ts.
I can't write and I can't spell. That's the privilege of a firstclass education. You're upstairs at the back. I think Ermelinda made the bed up.
This is so good of you.
Don't say it again. Now you're a Double Agent and we're going to string my Dad along, I was thinking we might buy a little car with the expense money he's sending you. What do you think, Marge... a little Cinquecento with my Dad's money?
You're a dark horse, Ripley. Engaged?
Your parents met her.
Oh God  I can just imagine  if only Dickie would settle down... doesn't every parent deserve a grandchild? Never! I swear on your ring, Marge. I am never going back.
I'm doing this wrong, aren't I?
You're doing great. We'll make a sailor of you yet. You're doing really well.
Could we sail to Venice?
Sure. I love Venice.
I have to go to Venice.
See Venice and die, isn't that right? Or is it Rome? You do something and die, don't you? Okay, Venice is on the list.
And Rome.
Do you ski? Don't tell me  you're a lost cause! That's the next thing to deal with. We're planning to go to Cortina at Christmas. Excellent skiing. Excellent. Marge  Ripley can't ski. We'll have to teach him that, too. Have you ever known such low class?
You're breaking my ribs!
What?
You're breaking my ribs!
I could fuck this icebox I love it so much. What were you actually doing in New York?
I played piano in a few places.
That's one job, you told me a lot of jobs.
A few places  that's a few jobs. Anyway, I don't want to think about New York.
The mysterious Mr Ripley. Marge and I spend hours speculating. Cold beer. Thank you Dad.
Copy out from here...
I love the fact you brought Shakespeare with you and no clothes. Ermelinda says you wash the same shirt out every night. Is that true?
No! I've got more than one shirt!
She can do that stuff for you. Anyway, just wear some of my things, wear anything you want, most of it's ancient.
Now your signature. Not "Dickie". Your signature.
Without the glasses you're not even ugly. I don't need them because I never read. How do I look.
Like Clark Kent. Now Superman.
I know. I write like a child.
Pretty vile. See this: The S and the T, do you see?  fine, vulnerable  that's pain, that's secret pain.
It must be a deep secret, cause I don't know about it.
Your handwriting  nothing more naked. See  nothing's quite touching the line  that's vanity.
Well we certainly know that's true.
Do you have any brothers?
No, no brothers, no sisters.
Me neither. Nor does Marge. All only children  what does that mean?
Means we never shared a bath. I'm cold. Can I get in?
No!
I didn't mean with you in it.
Okay, you get in. I'm like a prune anyway.
What does he say?
He's getting impatient. He wants me to reassure him you'll be home by Thanksgiving.
You've got to get a new jacket. Really. You must be sick of the same clothes. I'm sick of seeing you in them.
I can't. I can't keep spending your father's money.
I love how responsible you are. My Dad should make you Chief Accountant or something. Let me buy you a jacket. There's a great place when we get to Rome, Batistoni.
Where do we find a carozza for the Forum, or can we hire any of them  ?
Relax.
It's just there's so much to do in a single day.
Relax. The most important question is where to eat. I hope Freddie made a reservation.
Freddie?
Freddie Miles. You know  he's organizing the Cortina skiing trip.
Look, Tom, we've got to go to a club and meet some friends of Freddie's. The best thing is  if you want to be a tourist  grab a cab and we can meet up at the railway station.
What club?
Freddie's arranged it with some of the skiing crowd. Come if you want but I thought you wanted to see the Forum...?
I did. And then maybe get the jacket and what have you...
Shoes too?
You said I could pick out a jacket and I just... Sorry.
Get undressed in your own room, would you?
I thought you'd missed the train.
Freddie drove me back in his car.
Is Freddie here?
He's downstairs.
I was just fooling around. Don't say anything. Sorry.
What's the fight about? That's her fiancee, isn't it? Are they blaming him?
I don't know! Why are you asking me? How can it take an hour to find an ambulance?
She was pregnant. Did you know that? Do you know what that means in a place like this?
I'm prepared to take the blame.
What are you talking about?
You've been so good to me. You're the brother I never had. I'm the brother you never had.
She came to me for help, she needed money, and I didn't help her. I didn't help her. Now she's dead and it's my fault.
I'm not going to say anything  to Marge, or anybody, the police  It's a secret between us and I'll keep it.
...The thousand dollars, of course, was only due in the event that you succeeded in bringing Dickie home. Naturally, I hope the trip has afforded you some pleasure despite the failure of its main objective you need no longer consider yourself obligated to us in any way...
You can't blame him. You could hardly expect this to go on forever.
I thought you might write again. Now that we're brothers...
I can't, how can I, in all decency? We've had a good run, haven't we?
What about Venice? Can we stick to that plan at least?
I don't think so, Tom. You can't stay on here without money. It's time we all moved on. Besides I'm sick of Mongi. Especially now with everything  I really want to move to the North. I need to check out San Remo next week, find somewhere new to keep the boat. But it would be great, though, if you came with me. Our last trip before you leave. There's a jazz festival  we could say goodbye in style. What do you think? A last trip?
To Mongibello and the happiest days of my life.
To Mongi. You're cheerful tonight.
I'm suddenly quite happy to be going back.
That's good.
I've got plans!
Ripley's plans.
Esatto. I'm always planning.
Did I know you at Princeton, Tom? I didn't, did I?
Why are you asking all of a sudden?
No reason. Because you're leaving, I guess. I don't think you were there, were you?
Why?
I mean it as a compliment. You've got such great taste, I don't know. Most of the thugs at Princeton had tasted everything and had no taste. Used to say, the cream of America: rich and thick. Freddie's the perfect example.
Then I'll take it as a compliment.
I knew it! I had a bet with Marge!
Ha.
Do you even like jazz  or was that something for my benefit?
I've gotten to like it. I've gotten to like everything about the way you live. It's one big love affair. If you knew my life back home in New York...
I'm thinking of giving up the sax, what do you think about drums?
What?
So cool.
I wanted to tell you my plan.
So tell me.
I thought I might come back. In the New Year. Under my own steam.
Really? To Italy?
Of course. Let's say, for argument's sake, you were here  perhaps we could split the rent on a house  I'll get a job  or, better still, I could get a place in Rome and when we're there we could be there and if we're here we could be here 
Oh God, I don't think so.
You see, particularly with the Marge problem, you can just blame me.
Marge and I are getting married.
How?
How?
Yesterday you're ogling girls on the terrace, today you're getting married. It's absurd.
I love Marge.
You love me and you're not marrying me.
Tom, I don't love you.
No, no, it's not a threat, I've explained all of that.
I'm actually a little relieved you're going, to be honest. I think we've seen enough of each other for a while.
What?
You can be a leech  you know this  and it's boring. You can be quite boring.
The funny thing  I'm not pretending to be somebody else and you are. I'm absolutely honest with you. I've told you my feelings. But you, first of all I know there's something  that evening when we played chess, for instance, it was obvious 
What evening?
Sure  I know, that's too dangerous for you, fair enough, hey! we're brothers, fine, then you do this sordid thing with Marge, fucking her on the boat while we all have to listen, which was excruciating, frankly, plus you follow your cock around like a  and now you're getting married! I'm bewildered, forgive me... you're lying to Marge then getting married to her, you're knocking up Silvana, you've got to play sax, you've got to play drums, which is it, Dickie, what do you really play?
How do you do.
What are you doing in Mongi?
You should come and have lunch with us, before you go  Dickie?
Sure. Any time.
And be careful in the sun. Your gray's in danger of turning a little pink.
Sorry, sorry, sorry. I know, I'm late, I'm a swine.
Did you forget where I live? It's four o'clock.
I just woke up. I'm sorry.
You just woke up!
Fausto and I  we took the boat out, we were fishing, and then it was dawn and we'd caught absolutely nothing.
Well, we ate everything without you.
We?
Yes, Tom Ripley's here.
Tom was telling me about his trip over. Made me laugh so much I got a nosebleed.
Is that good?
Shut up!
I'll do it. I make a fabulous martini.
Everybody should have one talent. What's yours?
What? What?
Meet my father, Herbert Richard Greenleaf 1st.
Uncanny!
I don't get it.
Hi Tom.
Marge, Ripley's saying goodbye.
I'll come down.
Did you speak to my father?
Okay, we're going to Naples. There's a club, it's not a club, it's a cellar.
It's vile.
Yes, it's vile. Don't worry, you don't have to come. It's great. You're going to love it.
It'll just be for a little while. He can be... he makes me laugh.
Okay, darling.
You'd say if you mind?
No, I like him.
Marge, you like everybody.
I don't like you.
Then I'll go to your place and you can move in with Tom.
Now you know why Miss Sherwood always shows up for breakfast. It's not love it's the coffee machine.
It's the one task Dickie can do on his own  make coffee.
Shut up.
Oh darling  is that for me?
No it's for Tom as he didn't complain.
I had to promise, capital P, never to take it off  otherwise I'd give it to you.
Bastard! Isn't it great, Tom? I found it in Naples. I bargained for about two weeks.
I hope it wasn't cheap.
Oh, it was.
Dubious but special honor, Tom  crewing Dickie's boat. Alright, bar's open.
Yes please!
If you're not at my place by 7.00, Tom and I are running off together.
Okay.
He's drowning me!
It's always the same whenever someone new comes into his life  Freddie, Fausto, Peter SmithKingsley  he's wonderful  did you meet him, he's a musician?  ...and especially you, of course... and that's only the boys.
Well, she was already dead, darling, wasn't she, so I suppose 
I don't know why people say this country's civilised. It isn't. It's fucking primitive.
Yeah.
Do you recognize my voice?
I think so. Detective squad?
Right. Don't say my name, just listen. Somebody shot your father outside his place fifteen minutes ago.
Is he alive?
I think so, but I can't get close enough. There's a lot of blood. I'll try to find out more.
Find out anything you can...you got a Grand coming.
Mike, good to see you. Got everything you want?
Thanks.
The chef cooked for you special; the dancers will kick your tongue out and you credit is good! Draw chips for all these people so they can play on the house.
Is my credit good enough to buy you out?
Buy me out?...
The hotel, the casino. The Corleone family wants to buy you out.
The Corleone family wants to buy me out. I buy you out. You don't buy me out.
Your casino loses money. Maybe we can do better.
You think I scam?
You're unlucky.
You goddamn dagos. I do you a favor and take Freddie in when you're having a bad time, and then you try to push me out.
You took Freddie in because the Corleone family bankrolled your casino. You and the Corleone family are evened out. This is for business; name your price.
The Corleone family don't have that kind of muscle anymore. The Godfather is sick. You're getting chased out of New York by Barzini and the other families, and you think you can find easier pickings here. I've talked to Barzini; I can make a deal with him and keep my hotel!
Is that why you thought you could slap Freddie around in public?
You straightened my brother out?
Hell, he was banging cocktail waitresses two at a time. Players couldn't get a drink.
I have to go back to New York tomorrow. Think of your price.
You son of a bitch, you think you can brush me off like that? I made my bones when you were going out with cheerleaders.
Barzini's people chisel my territory and we do nothing about it. Pretty soon there won't be one place in Brooklyn I can hang my hat.
Just be patient.
I'm not asking you for help, Mike. Just take off the handcuffs.
Be patient.
Let us fill up our Regimes.
No. I want things very calm for another six months.
Forgive me, Godfather, let our years of friendship be my excuse. How can you hope for success there without your strength here to back you up? The two go hand in hand. And with you gone from here the Barzini and the Tattaglias will be too strong for us.
Barzini wants to arrange a meeting. Says we can straighten any of our problems out.
He talked to you?
I can arrange security.
Do you pledge to guide and protect this child if he is left fatherless? Do you promise to shield him against the wickedness of the world?
Yes, I promise.
Do you renounce Satan.
I do renounce him.
And all his works?
I do renounce them.
Do you wish to be baptized?
I do wish to be baptized.
I'm glad you came, Mike. I hope we can straighten everything out. All this is terrible, it's not the way I wanted things to happen at all. It should never have happened.
I want to settle things tonight. I want my father left alone.
He won't be; I swear to you be my children he won't be. Just keep an open mind when we talk. I hope you're not a hothead like your brother, Sonny. It's impossible to talk business with him.
We're going to New Jersey?
Maybe.
Most important...I want a sure guarantee that no more attempts will be made on my father's life.
What guarantees can I give you? I am the hunted one. I've missed my chance. You think too highly of me, my friend...I am not so clever...all I want if a truce...
What is it?
Is it all right if I go to the bathroom?
I was worried when we couldn't get in touch with you in that hick town.
How's Mom?
Good. She's been through it before. Me too. You were too young to know about it. You better wait outside; there're some things you shouldn't hear.
I can help you out...
Oh no you can't, the old man'd be sore as hell if I let you get mixed up in this.
Jesus Christ, he's my father, Sonny.
Theresa.
All right, Mikey...who do we have to hit, Clemenza or Paulie?
What?
One of them fingered the old man.
Clemenza? No, I don't believe it.
You're right, kid, Clemenza is okay. It was Paulie.
How can you be sure?
On the three days Paulie was sick this month, he got calls from a payphone across from the old man's building. We got people in the phone company. Thank God it was Paulie...we'll need Clemenza bad.
Is it going to be allout war, like last time?
Until the old man tells me different.
Then wait, Sonny. Talk to Pop.
Sollozzo is a dead man, I don't care what it costs. I don't care if we have to fight all the five families in New York. The Tattaglia family's going to eat dirt. I don't care if we all go down together.
That's not how Pop would have played it.
I know I'm not the man he was. But I'll tell you this and he'll tell you too. When it comes to real action, I can operate as good as anybody short range.
All right, Sonny. All right.
Christ, if I could only contact Luca.
Is it like they say? Is he that good?
Where are you going?
To the city.
Send some bodyguards.
I don't need them, Sonny. I'm just going to see Pop in the hospital. Also, I got other things.
Sonny...SonnyJesus Christ, I'm down at the hospital. I came down late. There's no one here. None of Tessio's peopleno detectives, no one. The old man is completely unprotected.
All right, get him in a different room; lock the door from the inside. I'll have some men there inside of fifteen minutes. Sit tight, and don't panic.
I won't panic.
Mikey, you look beautiful!
Cut it out.
The Turk wants to talk! The nerve of that son of a bitch! After he craps out last night he wants a meet.
We can't wait. No matter what Sollozzo say about a deal, he's figuring out how to kill Pop. You have to get Sollozzo now.
The kid's right.
Go on Mike.
They want me to go to the conference with Sollozzo. Set up the meeting for two days from now. Sonny, get our informers to find out where the meeting will be held. Insist it has to be a public place: a bar or restaurant at the height of the dinner hour. So I'll feel safe. They'll check me when I meet them so I won't be able to carry a weapon; but Clemenza, figure out a way to have one planted there for me. Then I'll kill them both.
Why don't you stop living like a bum and get this place cleaned up.
What are you, inspecting the barracks? You ready? Did Clemenza tell you be sure to drop the gun right away?
A million times.
Sollozzo and McCluskey are going to pick you up in an hour and a half on Times Square, under the big Camels sign.
O.K. How long do you think before I can come back?
Probably a year...
I'm Michael Corleonethis is my father. What happened to the detectives who were guarding him?
Oh your father just had too many visitors. It interfered with the hospital service. The police came and made them all leave just ten minutes ago. But don't worry. I look in on him.
You just stand here one minute...
You cannot stay here...I'm sorry.
You and I are going to move my father right now...to another room on another floor...Can you disconnect those tubes so we can wheel the bed out?
Absolutely not! We have to get permission from the Doctor.
You've read about my father in the papers. You've seen that no one's here to guard him. Now I've just gotten word that men are coming to this hospital to kill him. Believe me and help me.
We don't have to disconnect them, we can wheel the stand with the bed.
I've never seen anything like it.
I told you I had a lot of relatives.
Michael, what are those men doing?
They're waiting to see my father.
They're talking to themselves.
They're going to talk to my father, which means they're going to ask him for something, which means they better get it right.
Why do they bother him on a day like this?
Because they know that no Sicilian will refuse a request on his daughter's wedding day.
No. His name is Luca Brasi. You wouldn't like him.
Who is he?
You really want to know?
Yes. Tell me.
You like spaghetti?
You know I love spaghetti.
Then eat your spaghetti and I'll tell you a Luca Brasi story.
Once upon a time, about fifteen years ago some people wanted to take over my father's olive oil business. They had Al Capone send some men in from Chicago to kill my father, and they almost did.
Al Capone!
My Father sent Luca Brasi after them. He tied the two Capone men hand and foot, and stuffed small bath towels into their mouths. Then he took an ax, and chopped one man's feet off...
Michael...
Then the legs at the knees...
Michael you're trying to scare me...
Then the thighs where they joined the torso.
Michael, I don't want to hear anymore...
Then Luca turned to the other man...
Michael, I love you.
...who out of sheer terror had swallowed the bath towel in his mouth and suffocated.
I never know when you're telling me the truth.
I told you you wouldn't like him.
He's coming over here!
Tom...Tom, I'd like you to meet Kay Adams.
How do you do.
My brother, Tom Hagen.
If he's your brother, why does he have a different name?
My brother Sonny found him living in the streets when he was a kid, so my father took him in. He's a good lawyer.
I didn't know your family knew Johnny Fontane.
Sure.
I used to come down to New York whenever he sang at the Capitol and scream my head off.
He's my father's godson; he owes him his whole career.
We have something for your mother, for Sonny, we have the tie for Fredo and Tom Hagen gets the Reynolds pen...
And what do you want for Christmas?
Just you.
What will your father say?
As long as I tell him beforehand he won't object. He'll be hurt, but he won't object.
What time do they expect us?
For dinner. Unless I call and tell them we're still in New Hampshire.
Michael.
Then we can have dinner, see a show, and spend one more night.
Michael, what are you doing?
Shhh, you be the long distance operator. Here.
Hello...this is Long Distance. I have a call from New Hampshire. Mr. Michael Corleone. One moment please.
Would you like me better if I were a nun?
No.
Would you like me better if I were Ingrid Bergman?
Michael?
I'm thinking about it.
Michael...
No, I would not like you better if you were Ingrid Bergman.
Hello. Kay?
How is your father?
He'll be OK.
I love you.
I LOVE YOU.
Yeah Kay, I'm here.
Can you say it?
Huh?
Tell me you love me.
I can't...
Please say it.
Look. I'll see you tonight, OK?
OK.
Visiting hour ends at eight thirty. I'll just sit with him; I want to show respect.
Can I go to the hospital with you?
I don't think so. You don't want to end up on page 3 of the Daily News.
My parents don't read the Daily News. All right, if you think I shouldn't. I can't believe the things the papers are printing. I'm sure most of it's not true.
I don't think so either. I better go.
When will I see you again?
I want you to go back to New Hampshire...think things over.
When will I see you again?
Goodbye.
I have to see my father and his people when we get back to the Mall.
Oh Michael.
We'll go to the show tomorrow nightwe can change the tickets.
Don't you want dinner first?
No, you eat...don't wait up for me.
Wake me up when you come to bed?
Your sister wants to ask you something.
Let HER ask.
Why are you so cold to her and Carlo? They live with us on the Mall now, but you never get close to them.
I'm busy.
Connie and Carlo want you to be godfather to their little boy.
Will you?
Let me think about it, O.K.?
Michael, it's not true. Please tell me.
Don't ask me.
Tell me!
All right, this one time I'll let you ask about my affairs, one last time.
Is it true?
Hello Kay. Your father's inside, doing some business. He's been asking for you.
Thanks Tom.
Sure. Anything I can do for you.
No. I guess I'll see you Christmas. Everyone's going to be out at Long Beach, right?
Right.
What about McCluskey?
Let's say now that we have to kill McCluskey. We'll clear that up through our Newspaper contacts later.
Mike, why are you cutting me out of the action?
Tom, we're going to be legitimate all the way, and you're the legal man. What could be more important than that.
I'm not talking about that. I'm talking about Rocco Lampone building a secret regime. Why does Neri report directly to you, rather than through me or a caporegime?
Bookkeepers know everything. Rocco's men are all a little too good for the jobs they're supposed to be doing. They get a little more money than the job's worth. Lampone's a good man; he's operating perfectly.
Not so perfectly if you noticed.
Mike, why am I out?
You're not a wartime Consigliere. Things may get tough with the move we're trying.
OK, but then I agree with Tessio. You're going about it all wrong; you're making the move out of weakness... Barzini's a wolf, and if he tears you apart, the other families won't come running to help the Corleones...
Christ, Tom; I needed more time with him. I really needed him.
Did he give you his politicians?
Not all...I needed another four months and I would have had them all. I guess you've figured it all out?
How will they come at you?
I know now. I'll make them call me Don.
Have you agreed on a meeting?
A week from tonight. In Brooklyn on Tessio's ground, where I'll be safe.
Mr. Corleone is Johnny's Godfather. That is very close, a very sacred religious relationship.
Okay, but just tell him this is one favor I can't give. But he should try me again on anything else.
He never asks a second favor when he has been refused the first. Understood?
You smooth son of a bitch, let me lay it on the line for you, and your boss. Johnny Fontane never gets that movie. I don't care how many Dago, Guinea, wop Greaseball Goombahs come out of the woodwork!
I'm GermanIrish.
Okay my KrautMick friend, Johnny will never get that part because I hate that pinko punk and I'm going to run him out of the Movies. And I'll tell you why. He ruined one of Woltz Brothers' most valuable proteges. For five years I had this girl under training; singing lessons! Acting lessons! Dancing lessons! We spent hundreds of thousands of dollarsI was going to make her a star. I'll be even more frank, just to show you that I'm not a hardhearted man, that it wasn't all dollars and cents. That girl was beautiful and young and innocent and she was the greatest piece of ass I've ever ad and I've had them all over the world. Then Johnny comes along with that olive oil voice and guinea charm and she runs off. She threw it all away to make me look ridiculous. A MAN IN MY POSITION CANNOT AFFORD TO BE MADE TO LOOK RIDICULOUS!
Sonny was hot for my deal, right? You know it's the smart thing to do, too. I want you to talk Sonny into it.
Sonny will come after you with everything he's got.
The Don was slipping; in the old days I could never have gotten to him. Now he's dead, nothing can bring him back. Talk to Sonny, talk to the Caporegimes, Clemenza and Tessio...it's good business.
Even Sonny won't be able to call off Luca Brasi.
I'll worry about Luca. You take care of Sonny and the other two kids.
I'll try...It's what the Don would want us to do.
Good...then you can go... I don't like violence. I'm a businessman, and blood is a big expense.
Kay, we weren't expecting you. You should call...
I've tried calling and writing. I want to reach Michael.
Nobody knows where he is. We know he's all right, but that's all.
What was that?
An accident. No one was hurt.
Listen Tom, I let my cab go; can I come in to call another one?
Will you give this to him.
If I accept that letter and you told a Court of Law I accepted it, they would interpret it as my having knowledge of his whereabouts. Just wait Kay, he'll contact you.
Will you give this letter to Michael.
Mama, no.
The old man wants you; Johnny's here...he's got a problem.
Okay. One minute.
Is the hospital covered?
The cops have it locked in and I got my people there visiting Pop all the time. What about the hit list.
What about Luca? Sollozzo didn't seem worried about Luca. That worries me.
If Luca sold out we're in real trouble.
Has anyone been able to get in touch with him?
No, and I've been calling all night. Maybe he's shacked up.
Luca never sleeps over with a broad. He always goes home when he's through. Mike, keep ringing Luca's number.
Tom, you're the Consigliere, what do we do if the old man dies?
Without your father's political contacts and personal influence, the Corleone family loses half its strength. Without your father, the other New York families might wind up supporting Sollozzo, and the Tattaglias just to make sure there isn't a long destructive war. The old days are over, this is 1946; nobody wants bloodshed anymore. If your father dies...make the deal, Sonny.
That's easy to say; it's not your father.
I was as good a son to him as you or Mike.
Oh Christ Tom, I didn't mean it that way.
We're all tired...
OK, we sit tight until the old man can give us the lead. But Tom, I want you to stay inside the Mall. You too, Mike, no chances. Tessio, you hold your people in reserve, but have them nosing around the city. The hospital is yours; I want it tight, foolproof, 24 hours a day.
Maybe Mike shouldn't get mixed up in this so directly. You know the old man doesn't want that.
OK forget it, just stay on the phone.
Was there a definite proposal?
Sure, he wants us to send Mike to meet him to hear his proposition. The promise is the deal will be so good we can't refuse.
What about that Tattaglias? What will they do about Bruno?
Part of the deal: Bruno cancels out what they did to my father.
We should hear what they have to say.
No, no Consiglere. Not this time. No more meetings, no more discussions, no more Sollozzo tricks. Give them one message: I WANT SOLLOZZO. If not, it's all out war. We go to the mattresses and we put all the button men out on the street.
The other families won't sit still for all out war.
Then THEY hand me Sollozzo.
Come ON Sonny, your father wouldn't want to hear this. This is not a personal thing, this is Business.
And when they shot me father...
Yes, even the shooting of your father was business, not personal...
No no, no more advice on how to patch it up Tom. You just help me win. Understood?
I found out about this Captain McCluskey who broke Mike's jaw. He's definitely on Sollozzo's payroll, and for big money. McCluskey's agreed to be the Turk's bodyguard. What you have to understand is that while Sollozzo is guarded like this, he's invulnerable. Nobody has ever gunned down a New York Police Captain. Never. It would be disastrous. All the five families would come after you Sonny; the Corleone family would be outcasts; even the old man's political protection would run for cover. So just...take that into consideration.
McCluskey can't stay with the Turk forever. We'll wait.
One of Tattaglia's people?
No. Our informer in McCluskey's precinct. Tonight at 8:00 he signed out for Louis' Restaurant in the Bronx. Anyone know it.
Jesus, I don't know...
Can you do it Mike?
Pop, they hit us and we hit them back.
We put out a lot of material through our contacts in the Newspapers...about McCluskey's being tied up with Sollozzo in the Drug Rackets...things are starting to loosen up.
We'll let the old man take it easy for a couple of weeks. I want to get things going good before he gets better. What's the matter with you?
You start operating, the five families will start their raids again. We're at a stalemate Sonny, your war is costing us a lot of money.
No more stalemate Tom, we got the soldiers, we'll match them gun for gun if that's how they want it. They know me for what I am, Tom and they're scared of me.
Yes. That's true, you're getting a hell of a reputation.
Well it's war! We might not be in this shape if we had a real war time Consiglere, a Sicilian. Pop had Genco, who do I have? Hey Tom, hey...hey. It's Sunday, we're gonna have dinner. Don't be sore.
Why didn't Moe Green meet us at the airport?
He had business at the hotel, but he'll drop in for dinner.
You look wonderful, kid; really wonderful. That doctor did some job on your face.
You look good, too.
Ever seen anything like that before?
No.
Mike! The party starting!
Come here a minute, Fredo.
Who are those girls?
That's for you to find out.
Give them some money and send them home.
Mike!
Get rid of them...
Mike, you sure about Moe selling. He never mentioned it to me and he loves the business.
I'll make him an offer he can't refuse.
Tom, you're the Consigliere; you can talk to the Don and advise him.
The Don has semiretired. I'm running the Family business now. So anything you have to say, say it to me.
You had better bring a few bottles home with you, my friend; you'll need help sleeping tonight.
This one could seduce the devil. A body! and eyes as big and black as olives.
I know about what you mean!
This was a beauty. Right, Calo?
Beautiful all over, eh?
And hair. Black and curly, like a doll. And such a mouth.
It's the real Thunderbolt, then.
Come Sunday morning: My name is Vitelli and my house is up there on the hill, above the village.
You tell us about America.
How do you know I come from America?
We hear. We were told you were a Pezzonovanta...big shot.
Only the son of a Pezzonovanta.
Hey America! Is she as rich as they say?
Yes.
Take me to America! You need a good lupara in America? You take me, I'll be the best man you got. "Oh say, can you seeee...By da star early light..."
Hey, beautiful girls!
Shhhhh.
Get the car. I'll be leaving in ten minutes. Where's Calo?
Calo is having a cup of coffee in the kitchen. Is your wife coming with you?
No, she's going home to her family. She'll join me in a few weeks...
Don Tommassino.
Michael, why must you do this. We have been lucky so far, all these months you've been here we've kept your name a secret. It is from love for your father that I've asked you never to more than an hour from the Villa.
Calo and Fabrizzio are with me; nothing will happen.
You must understand that your Father's enemies have friends in Palermo.
I know.
Where are you going?
Corleone.
There is nothing there. Not anymore.
I was told that my Grandfather was murdered on its main street; and his murderers came to kill my father there when he was twelve years old.
Long ago. Now there is nothing: the men killed each other in family vendettas...the others escaped to America.
Don Tommassino...I should see this place.
That is your birthright...but Michael, use this car.
No...I would like to walk to Corleone.
Things went badly in Palermo?
The younger men have no respect. Things are changing; I don't know what will happen. Michael, because of the wedding, people now know your name.
Is that why there are more men on the walls?
Even so, I don't think it is safe here anymore. I've made plans to move you to a villa near Siracuse. You must go right away.
What is it?
Bad news from America. Your brother, Santino. He has been killed.
...a fine boy from Sicily, captured by the American Army, and sent to New Jersey as a prisoner of war...
Nazorine, my friend, tell me what I can do.
Now that the war is over, Enzo, this boy is being repatriated to Italy. And you see, Godfather... He...my daughter...they...
You want him to stay in this country.
Godfather, you understand everything.
Tom, what we need is an Act of Congress to allow Enzo to become a citizen.
An Act of Congress!
Will your girl friend get back to the city all right?
Tom said he'd take care of it.
What was this for?
For bravery.
And this?
For killing a man.
What miracles you do for strangers.
I fought for my country. It was my choice.
And now, what do you choose to do?
I'm going to finish school.
Good. When you are finished, come and talk to me. I have hopes for you.
Have you thought about a wife? A family?
No.
I understand, Michael. But you must make a family, you know.
I want children, I want a family. But I don't know when.
Accept what's happened, Michael.
I could accept everything that's happened; I could accept it, but that I never had a choice. From the time I was born, you had laid this all out for me.
No, I wanted other things for you.
You wanted me to be your son.
Yes, but sons who would be professors, scientists, musicians...and grandchildren who could be, who knows, a Governor, a President even, nothing's impossible here in America.
Then why have I become a man like you?
You are like me, we refuse to be fools, to be puppets dancing on a string pulled by other men. I hoped the time for guns and killing and massacres was over. That was my misfortune. That was your misfortune. I was hunted on the streets of Corleone when I was twelve years old because of who my father was. I had no choice.
A man has to choose what he will be. I believe that.
What else do you believe in?
I told you that it wouldn't escape his eye.
How did you find out?
I see you have your Luca Brasi.
I'll need him.
There are men in this world who demand to be killed. They argue in gambling games; they jump out of their cars in a rage if someone so much as scratches their fender. These people wander through the streets calling out "Kill me, kill me." Luca Brasi was like that. And since he wasn't scared of death, and in fact, looked for it...I made him my weapon. Because I was the only person in the world that he truly hoped would not kill him. I think you have done the same with this man.
Barzini will move against you first.
How?
He will get in touch with you through someone you absolutely trust. That person will arrange a meeting, guarantee your safety...
Your wife and children...you're happy with them?
Yes.
Good.
Is it necessary?
You understand him better than anyone.
I'm sure it's the most generous gift today.
The Senator calledapologized for not coming personally, but said you'd understand. Also, some of the Judges...they've all sent gifts. And another call from Virgil Sollozzo.
He's his own boss, and very competent.
And with prison record.
Two terms; one in Italy, one in the United States. He's known to the Government as a top narcotics man. That could be a plus for us; he could never get immunity to testify.
When did he call?
This morning.
On a day like this. Consiglero, do you also have in your notes the the Turk made his living from Prostitution before the war, like the Tattaglias do now. Write that down before you forget it. The Turk will wait.
It is Johnny. He came all the way from California to be at the wedding.
Should I bring him in.
No. Let the people enjoy him. You see? He is a good godson.
It's been two years. He's probably in trouble again.
When does my daughter leave with her bridegroom?
They'll cut the cake in a few minutes...leave right after that. Your new soninlaw, do we give him something important?
No, give him a living. But never let him know the family's business. What else, Tom?
I've called the hospital; they've notified Consiglere Genco's family to come and wait. He won't last out the night.
What is this nonsense?
It's from Johnny. It was announced this morning. He's going to play the lead in the new Woltz Brothers film.
My wife was weeping before she fell asleep, outside my window I saw my caporegimes to the house, and it is midnight. So, Consigliere of mine, I think you should tell your Don what everyone knows.
I didn't tell Mama anything. I was about to come up and wake you and tell you. Just now.
But you needed a drink first.
Yes.
Now you've had your drink.
When I meet with Tattaglia's people; should I insist that all his drug middlemen be clean?
Mention it, don't insist. Barzini is a man who will know that without being told.
You mean Tattaglia.
Barzini.
He was the one behind Sollozzo?
Tattaglia is a pimp. He could never have outfought Santino. But I wasn't sure until this day. No, it was Barzini all along.
Tom, I never thought you were a bad Consigliere, I thought Santino a bad Don, rest in peace. He had a good heart but he wasn't the right man to head the family when I had my misfortune. Michael has all my confidence, as you do. For reasons which you can't know, you must have no part in what will happen.
Maybe I can help.
I kept trying to call you after my divorce and Tom always said you were busy. When I got the Wedding invitation I knew you weren't sore at me anymore, Godfather.
Can I do something for you still? You're not too rich, or too famous that I can't help you?
I'm not rich anymore, Godfather, and...my career, I'm almost washed up...
All right, Hollywood...Now tell me about this Hollywood Pezzonovanta who won't let you work.
He owns the studio. Just a month ago he bought the movie rights to this book, a best seller. And the main character is a guy just like me. I wouldn't even have to act, just be myself.
You take care of your family?
Sure.
You look terrible. I want you to eat well, to rest. And spend time with your family. And then, at the end of the month, this big shot will give you the part you want.
It's too late. All the contracts have been signed, they're almost ready to shoot.
I'll make him an offer he can't refuse.
My business is heroin, I have poppy fields, laboratories in Narseilles and Sicily, ready to go into production. My importing methods are as safe as these things can be, about five per cent loss. The risk is nothing, the profits enormous.
Why do you come to me? Why do I deserve your generosity?
I need two million dollars in cash...more important, I need a friend who has people in high places; a friend who can guarantee that if one of my employees be arrested, they would get only light sentences. Be my friend.
What percentages for my family?
Thirty per cent. In the first year your share would be four million dollars; then it would go up.
And what is the percentage of the Tattaglia family?
My compliments. I'll take care of them from my share.
So. I receive 30 per cent just for finance and legal protection. No worries about operations, is that what you tell me?
If you think two million dollars in cash is just finance, I congratulate you Don Corleone.
No...how a man makes his living is none of my business. But this proposition of yours is too risky. All the people in my family lived well the last ten years, I won't risk that out of greed.
Are you worried about security for your million?
No.
The Tattaglias will guarantee your investment also.
You look terrif on the floor!
What are you, a dance judge? Go do your job; take a walk around the neighborhood... see everything is okay.
I tol' you to stay put, Paulie...
The guy at the gate's outside...says there's a package...
Outside.
Sure.
I'll think about it.
Drive while you thinking; I wanna get to the City this month!
Good for ten men...
OK, go to Arthur Avenue; I'm suppose to call when I found somethin'.
You think we'll go for that last place?
Maybe, or you gotta know now.
Holy cow, I don't gotta know nothing.
Mostly it gives witnesses an excuse to change their identification when we make them see the light. Then you take a long vacation and we catch the hell.
How bad will it be?
Probably all the other families will line up against us. But, it's alright. These things have to happen once every ten years or so...gets rid of the bad blood. You gotta stop 'em at the beginning. Like they shoulda stopped Hitler at Munich, they shoulda never let him get away with that, they were just asking for big trouble...
We gotta fight sometime. Let us at least recruit our regimes to full strength.
No, I don't want to give Barzini an excuse to start fighting.
He's going to be our lawyer in Vegas. Nobody goes to him with any other business as of now, this minute. No reflection on Tom; that's the way I want it. Besides, if I ever need any advice, who's a better Consigliere than my father.
Then in a six month time we're on our own; is that it?
Maybe less...
You heard about your father?
Yeah.
The word is out in the streets that he's dead.
Where the hell was Paulie, why wasn't he with the Don?
Paulie's been a little sick all winter...he was home.
How many times did he stay home the last couple of months?
Maybe three, four times. I always asked Freddie if he wanted another bodyguard, but he said no. Things have been so smooth the last ten years...
Go get Paulie, I don't care how sick he is. Pick him up yourself, and bring him to my father's house.
That's all? Don't you want me to send some people over here?
No, just you and Paulie.
Clemenza. You take care of Paulie. I don't ever want to see him again. Understood?
Understood.
Okay, now you can move your men into the Mall, replace Tessio's people. Mike, tomorrow you take a couple of Clemenza's people and go to Luca's apartment and wait for him to show. That crazy bastard might be going after Sollozzo right now if he's heard the news.
You take care of Paulie?
You won't see Paulie anymore. He's sick for good this winter.
Sollozzo knows Mike's a civilian.
OK, but be careful.
I want somebody very good, very safe to plant that gun. I don't want my brother coming out of that toilet with just his dick in his hand.
The gun will be there.
You're on, kid...I'll square it with Mom your not seeing her before you left. And I'll get a message to your girl friend when I think the time is right.
We gotta move...
What's the matter, Carlo?
Shut up.
What was that?
Your girl friend. She says she can't make it tonight. You lousy bastard you have the nerve to give your whores my telephone number. I'll kill you, you bastard!
You're staying home. You're not going out.
OK, OK. You gonna make me something to eat at least?
The food is on the table.
I'm not hungry yet.
Eat it, it's on the table.
Ba Fa Goulle.
BA FA GOULE YOU!
You filthy guinea spoiled brat. Clean it up or I'll kick your head in.
Like hell I will.
Understood. I just wish I was doing more to help out.
I'll come to you when I need you.
Jesus, Connie...Sure, Mike...
Go back to your house and wait for me...
Godfather!
You have to answer for Santino.
You fingered Sonny for the Barzini people. That little farce you played out with my sister. Did Barzini kid you that would fool a Corleone?
I swear I'm innocent. I swear on the head of my children, I'm innocent. Mike, don't do this to me, please Mike, don't do this to me!
Barzini is dead. So is Philip Tattaglia, so are Strachi, Cuneo and Moe Greene...I want to square all the family accounts tonight. So don't tell me you're innocent; admit what you did.
Don't be frightened. Do you think I'd make my sister a widow? Do you think I'd make your children fatherless? After all, I'm Godfather to your son. No, your punishment is that you're out of the family business. I'm putting you on a plane to Vegasand I want you to stay there. I'll send Connie an allowance, that's all. But don't keep saying you're innocent; it insults my intelligence and makes me angry. Who approached you, Tattaglia or Barzini?
Barzini.
Good, good. Leave now; there's a car waiting to take you to the airport.
Bonasera, we know each other for years, but this is the first time you come to me for help. I don't remember the last time you invited me to your house for coffee...even though our wives are friends.
What do you want of me? I'll give you anything you want, but do what I ask!
And what is that Bonasera?
No. You ask for too much.
I ask for Justice.
The Court gave you justice.
An eye for an eye!
But your daughter is still alive.
Then make them suffer as she suffers. How much shall I pay you.
You never think to protect yourself with real friends. You think it's enough to be an American. All right, the Police protects you, there are Courts of Law, so you don't need a friend like me. But now you come to me and say Don Corleone, you must give me justice. And you don't ask in respect or friendship. And you don't think to call me Godfather; instead you come to my house on the day my daughter is to be married and you ask me to do murder...for money.
America has been good to me...
Then take the justice from the judge, the bitter with the sweet, Bonasera. But if you come to me with your friendship, your loyalty, then your enemies become my enemies, and then, believe me, they would fear you...
Be my friend.
Good. From me you'll get Justice.
Godfather.
Some day, and that day may never come, I would like to call upon you to do me a service in return.
What do you wish me to do?
I want you to use all your powers, all your skill, as you love me. I do not want his mother to see him as he is.
Yes, I understand. I'm listening.
You owe the Don a service. In one hour, not before, perhaps later, he will be at your funeral parlor to ask for your help. Be there to greet him. If you have any objections speak now, and I'll inform him.
Anything...Anything the Godfather wishes.
Good. He never doubted you.
The Don himself is coming to me tonight?
Yes.
This is Tom Hagen; I'm calling for Don Corleone, at his request.
Yes, I understand I'm listening.
You owe the Don a service. He has no doubt that you will repay it.
...One fiftynine, Two minutes.
Two vodka martinis, straight up, shaken not stirred, very dry, easy on the water.
Beautiful. What time are you off... ...Christy?
Six.
And you?
I'll have the Blackbeard over easy.
I'll be back with the coffee.
Bitch... You little bitch!
Chelios to Roenick...!
Because he's a bitch.
That's so bullshit. This is so bullshit.
...against the computer.
They're a finesse team...
They're a bitch team... SCORE! Roenick!
Fuck!!! That is so bullshit!
I don't know. I guess kids were hitting each other or something.
You could make their heads bleed, though.
Yeah... If you hit them hard their heads bleed all over the ice and their legs convulse.
Is he cute? Ask him if he wants to stay for a cocktail!
...Is he brown?
What a surprise...
...How novel.
Oh, it's on, baby...
...It's on.
Is she looking at me, baby?
No.
Now?
No.
Is she looking now?
No! She's not looking at you. She hasn't looked at you once. Will you stop asking if... Wait, she just looked.
See, baby?
Yes she did.
Damn. Now I gotta go in early.
That was pretty cold, dude.
What was cold about it?
It's on.
You think?
Baby, I know it is. It's a black diamond trail...
...double diamond...
...but it's worth the risk. True or false: It's worth the risk.
True.
Baby, don't talk that way, baby...
You are so money, and you don't even know it...
That's what I keep trying to tell him. You're so money, you don't even know...
...we're not...
You're like this big bear with claws and fangs...
...and big fuckin' teeth...
...and teeth... And she's like this little bunny cowering in the corner...
...shivering...
...And you're just looking at your claws like "How do I kill this bunny?"...
...You're just poking at it...
...Yeah. You're just gently batting it around... and the rabbit's all scared...
...and you got big claws and fangs...
...and fangs... and you're like "I don't know what to do. How do I kill this bunny?"...
...you're like a big bear.
...honestly...
...you're money...
...you're so fuckin mmmoney.
Now go over there and get those digits.
You're money.
Now when you talk to her, I don't want you to be the guy in the PG13 movie that everyone's pulling for. I want you to be the guy in the rated R movie who you're not sure if you like.
...Tomorrow, then a day.
...Yeah.
Definitely. Two days. That's the industry standard...
...I used to wait two days. Now everyone waits two days. Three days is kinda money now, don't you think?
...Yeah. But two's enough not to look anxious...
Yeah, but three days is kinda the money...
Laugh all you want, but if you call to soon you can scare off a nice baby who's ready to party.
Don't listen to him. You call whenever it feels right to you.
You dick.
What'd you want me to do? Back down? He called me a bitch. We kept our rep.
...Anaheim...
...Whatever. Things are different here. It's not like New York, Mikey.
...Oh, who would jack your fuckin K car? He's right, Sue. You don't need no gat.
Listen. Just because I was the only one with the balls to stand up to them...
...Oh yeah, like "Cypress Hill" was gonna do anything...
...Sue...
Have you gotten laid once since you moved here? Did you fuck once?
...Shut up, Sue...
I know for a fact you haven't, because you never shut up about it. You're like a little whiney bitch...
Sue!
It's on...
...it's on.
It's on.
...it's definitely on.
It is on.
...it is so on.
Sorry man.
Yeah. You probably coulda hit that tonight if you didn't have to drive us home.
...Definitely...
The bear's got his claws back.
Be smart about it.
I'm telling you. Wait three days...
You don't have to wait three days...
...Okay, two...
...just be smart about it.
...Well, then, I guess we don't have to worry about him anymore.
Our little baby's growing up...
Hello?
S'up Trent?
Lemme get off the other line, baby.
That was Sue. We got two parties tonight. One's for a modeling agency.
I don't know...
Listen to me, baby, there are going to be beautiful babies there.
Trent, I don't feel like going out tonight. I got shit to do tomorrow...
Listen to you. I got an audition for a pilot at nine and I'm going. You gotta get out with some beautiful babies. You can't sit home thinking about her.
I don't know...
I don't know, I don't know  listen to you. We're gonna have fun tonight. We gotta get you out of that stuffy apartment.
We're gonna spend half the night driving around the Hills looking for this party and then leaving cause it sucks, then we're gonna look for this other party you heard about. But, Trent, all the parties and bars, they all suck. I spend half the night trying to talk to some girl who's eyes are darting around to see if there's someone else she should be talking to. And it's like I'm supposed to be all happy cause she's wearing a backpack. Half of them are nasty skanks who wouldn't be shit if they weren't surrounded by a bunch of drunken horny assholes. I'm not gonna be one of those assholes. It's fucking depressing. Some skank who isn't half the woman my girlfriend is is gonna front me? It makes me want to puke.
You got it bad, baby. You need Vegas.
What are you talking about? Vegas?
VEGAS.
What Vegas?
We're going to Vegas.
When?
Tonight, baby.
You're crazy.
I'll pick you up in a half an hour.
I'm not going to Vegas.
Shut up  yes you are. Now listen to Tee. We'll stop at a cash machine on the way.
I can't lose more than a hundred.
Just bring your card. Half an hour.
Wait.
What?
What are you wearing? I mean, we should wear suits.
Oh... Now Mikey wants to be a high roller.
No, seriously, if you're dressed nice and you act like you gamble a lot, they give you free shit.
Okay Bugsy. Twenty minutes.
Wear a suit, I'm telling you it works.
Be downstairs. You're beautiful.
I took out three hundred, but I'm only gonna bet with one. I figure if we buy a lot of chips, the pit boss will see and they'll comp us all sorts of shit, then we trade back the chips at the end of the night. You gotta be cool though.
I'm cool, baby. They're gonna give Daddy a room, some breakfast, maybe Bennett's singing.
I'm serious. This is how you do it. I'm telling you.
I know. Daddy's gonna get the Rainman suite. Vegas, baby. We're going to Vegas!
Vegas! You think we'll get there by midnight?
Baby, we're gonna be up by five hundy by midnight. Vegas, baby!
Vegas!
Vegas, baby!
Vegas!
Vegas.
Vegas.
Wake up, baby.
Whu?
Look at it, baby. Vegas, baby!
Pirates of the fucking Caribbean.
This is the hot new place, besides, you love pirates. Tell me Mikey doesn't love pirates.
This is fuckin' postpubescent Disneyland.
You gotta love the pirates, baby. The pirates are money.
This place is dead. I thought this was the city that never sleeps.
That's New York, baby. You should know that. Look at the waitresses. I'm gonna get me a pegleg baby.
They're all skanks.
Baby, there are beautiful babies here.
Tee, the beautiful babies don't work Wednesdays midnight to six. This is the skank shift.
What are you talking about? Look at all the honeys.
Cut that shit out.
She smiled baby.
That's not cool.
Did she, or did she not smile?
It doesn't matter...
I'm telling you, they love that shit.
You're gonna screw up our plan.
We're gonna get laid, baby.
First let's see what happens if we play it cool.
What? You think she's gonna tell her pitboss on us?
Don't make fun, I think we can get some free shit if we don't fuck around.
Who's fucking around? I'm not making fun. Let's do it, baby.
The trick is to look like you don't need it, then they give you shit for free.
Well, you look money, baby. We both look money.
That's where we make our scene.
You think they're watching?
Oh, they're watching all right. They're watching.
Double down.
What?!?
Double down, baby. You gotta double down on an eleven.
I know, but...
You gotta do it.
...but that's two hundred dollars. This is blood money...
If we don't look like we know what we're doing, then we may as well...
I'm telling you, baby, you always double down on an eleven.
Yeah? Well obviously not always!
Always, baby.
I'm just saying, not in this particular case.
Always.
But I lost! How can you say always?!?
...Well, you know, not counting the first table.
Thanks for clarifying that.
Hey, man, I'm down too, you know.
Yea, how much?
I don't know, what? Thirty, Forty maybe.
Don't give me that shit. You know exactly how much you lost. What'd you drop?
Twenty... but I was down at least fifty. I'm sorry, I got hot at the crap table.
You won. There's nothing to be sorry about. You're a winner. I'm the fuckin loser. I should be sorry.
Baby, don't talk like that, baby.
Let's just leave.
Baby, you're money. You're the big winner.
Let's go.
Who's the big winner?
Mikey's the big winner.
What an asshole.
Okay, Tee's the asshole, but Mikey's the big winner.
What an asshole.
That was money. Tell me that wasn't money.
That was so demeaning...
She smiled, baby.
I can't believe what an asshole you are.
Did she, or did she not smile.
She was smiling at what an asshole you are.
She was smiling at how money I am, baby.
Let's go. I'm not paying for a room, and if we don't leave now we'll never make it.
Leave? The honeybaby's bringing us some cocktails.
What are you, nuts? You think she's coming back?
I know she's coming back.
I don't think so.
Baby, did you hear her? "You shouldn't leave without getting something for free." She wants to party, baby.
You think so?
You gotta give Tee one thing. He's good with the ladies.
I'm too tired for this. Let's just go.
Baby, this is what we came for. We met a beautiful baby and she likes you.
She likes you.
Whatever. We'll see. Daddy's gonna get her to bring a friend. We'll both get one. I don't care if I'm with her or one of her beautiful baby friends.
I don't know...
You gotta get that girl out of your head. It's time to move on. You're a stylish, successful, good looking cat. The ladies want to love you, you just gotta let them.
That's bullshit.
It's not. You're money. Any of these ladies would be lucky to pull a cat like you.
It's just that I've been out of the game so long. Trent, I was with her for six years. That's before AIDS. I'm scared. I don't know how to talk to them, I don't know...
You can't think like that, baby. It's hard, I know. I've been there. Not for six years, but I know. You just gotta get back out there.
It's just tough, after sleeping with someone you love for so long, to be with someone new... who doesn't know what I like... and you gotta wear a jimmy...
...gotta...
...and then I'm struggling to impress some chick who's not half as classy as my girlfriend, who I'm not even really attracted to...
Oh fuck that. You don't have to try and impress anyone. You think I give a shit? You think I sweat that skanky whore waitress...
That was so fuckin' money. It was like that "Jedi mind" shit.
That's what I'm telling you, baby. The babies love that stuff. They don't want all that sensitive shit. You start talking to them about puppy dogs and ice cream. They know what you want. What do you think? You think they don't?
I know. I know.
They know what you want, believe me. Pretending is just a waste of time. You're gonna take them there eventually anyway. Don't apologize for it.
I'm just trying to be a gentleman, show some respect...
Respect, my ass. They respect honesty. You see how they dress when they go out? They want to be noticed. You're just showing them it's working. You gotta get off this respect kick, baby. There ain't nothing wrong with letting them now that you're money and that you want to party.
Nice, baby.
I should've said Renaissance, right? It went over her head.
Baby, you did fine.
"Age of Enlightenment". Shit. Like some waitress in a Las Vegas coffee shop is going to get an obscure French philosophical reference. How demeaning. I may as well have just said "Let me jump your ignorant bones."...
...Baby...
...It's just, I thought "Renaissance" was too Excaliber, it's the wrong casino. She would've gotten it, though...
You did fine. Don't sweat her. We're meeting our honeys soon. You know Christy's friend is going to be money.
I hope so. We gotta go soon.
Baby, relax. It's just down the hall. She's gotta change... we'll be fine.
We didn't do so bad after all.
Baby, we're money.
I'm Mike... and this is my friend "Doubledown Trent".
Stop. Ladies, don't you double down on an eleven?
Whatever.
Hello, Lisa. I'm Trent. What a lovely makeup job.
Oh... a Dorothy.
Well... we're not in Kansas anymore.
What was the part?
Oh... "I love you... I can't believe you're doing this... Drugs are bad..." Whatever. AfterSchool bullshit. The role is Brother.
"Big Brother", "Little Brother"?
Wait... Wait... Just "Brother". So I go in. "Hello... Hi... We loved your guest spot on Baywatch... blah blah blah..." Whatever. So, I start to read, and, Mikey, I was money. I prepared for a week. It's a starring role. I'm crying... The casting director, she starts crying...
No!
Yes!
Wait... She's crying. I finish. I hold up my finger like "Wait a second". They sit in silence for, like, at least five minutes. I look up and they all start clapping, and now they're all crying. Even the camera guy.
No! Not the camera guy!
I'm telling you!
...So give me the fuckin part...
Right?... that I nailed it... Whatever. Then he says it's just that I'm a little old. I'm like "How old is the Brother?". He's like, he says this with a straight face, I swear to God, he says "Eleven."
So, what'd you say to him? "Double down."?
No, man. I need to use the phone.
What?
I gotta use the phone.
Baby, you'll check them tomorrow.
Please, Tee. I have to use the phone. Sorry, man.
Hold on.
She asked me what I was thinking about? What should I have done? Lie?
You didn't have to get into it, baby.
Sorry about interrupting...
Don't worry about me, baby. I just wanted you to have a good time.
Christy was nice...
I didn't even like her, to be honest.
She was hot.
She really didn't do it for me, baby. How'd you like Dorothy?
I don't know. The whole Judy Garland thing kind of turned me on. Does that makes me some kind of fag?
No, baby. You're money.
She didn't like me, anyway.
She thought you were money.
I don't think so.
I heard them talking. They both thought you were money.
Yeah, a good friend.
Baby, you take yourself out of the game. You start talking about puppy dogs and ice cream, of course it's gonna be on the friend tip.
I just don't think she liked me in that way.
Baby, you're so money you don't even know it.
Tee, girls don't go for me the way they go for you.
Michelle went for you, right.
That was different.
How?
I was younger... It was college. You didn't go to college, you don't know what it's like. You screw chicks you have no business being with. They're young, they don't know any better.
That's just plain silly. Your self esteem is just low because she's with someone else. But thinking about it and talking about it all the time is bad. It's no good, man. You gotta get out there. The ladies want to love you, baby.
I just need some time...
Why? So you can beat yourself up? Sitting around in that stuffy apartment. It's just plain bad for you, man. It's depressing. You've come so far. Remember the first week? After she told you? You couldn't even eat.
Don't remind me.
You just sat around drinking orange juice. Now look at you. Look how far you've come in just a few months. You got that part in that movie...
...a day...
...Whatever. It's work. You're doing what you love. What's she doing?
Selling scrap metal.
See? And what does this guy she's with do?
He drives a carriage.
What?!?
I hear he drives a carriage around Central Park or something.
Please. And you're sweating him? You're "all that" and you're sweating some lawn jockey?
I hear she's getting real fat.
Baby, she's the one who should be thinking about you. Sounds to me like you cut loose some dead weight. Trust me, Mikey, you're better off.
I wish the game still had fights so I could bitchslap Wayne.
This version doesn't have fighting?
No. Doesn't that suck?
What? That was the best part of the old game.
No.
Yeah.
You guys are such assholes.
Aww... He got away?
What time's this party tonight?
It starts at eight...
Who? Rob?
Yeah. You met him once.
Yeah. He's a "rounder".
...the Copa, in New York...
...through the kitchen...
...Maybe. I mean you gotta hide all the lights...
...It looked money.
How you guys doing?
It's on.
Which one?
Minnie Pearl.
What are you doing?
What?
You looked right at her, baby.
She didn't notice.
I'm sorry.
Don't sweat it, baby. This one's a layup.
Was I money?
I don't know. It was kind of a dick move if you ask me.
Why, baby? What'd I do wrong?
You asked her for her number, and then you tore it up.
She didn't see.
That doesn't matter.
We got the digits, baby.
What a surprise.
What's wrong? I saw you talking to that beautiful blonde baby.
Please, don't mess with me right now...
We're not messing with you...
You're not just, like, fucking with me?
No, baby!
How long do I wait to call?
A day.
Tomorrow?
No...
So, two days?
Yeah. I guess you could call it that.
What the fuck..?
What an asshole. Didn't you see "Boys in the Hood"? Now one of us is gonna get shot.
You were off your ass back there! Where the hell did you learn to do all that twirly whirly shit?
I took a ballroom class with Michelle. I never danced with anyone but her, til tonight. That Lorraine chick is good.
You were good. Did you see how she was vibing you?
It's not like that...
Don't give me that! She liked you, man.
I know she liked me. I mean, it's not like I wanted to do anything with her tonight.
Guys... Guys... I got it under control.
Oh. He's got it under control...
There you two are. I walked around for an hour with that stupid martini on my tray.
Sorry. We got knocked out pretty quickly.
Are you ready to order?
Coffee... Two coffees. It says "Breakfast Any Time", right?
That's right.
I'll have "pancakes in the Age of Enlightenment".
Excuse me. We're in a bit of a hurry.
Hang on, Voltaire.
Hi. This is Nikki. Leave a message.
Hi, Nikki. This is Mike. I met you tonight at the Dresden. I, uh, just called to say I, uh, I'm really glad we met and you should give me a call. So call me tomorrow, or, like, in two days, whatever. My number is 213 5554679...
Hi. This is Nikki. Leave a message.
Hi, Nikki. This is Mike, again. I just called because it sounded like your machine might've cut me off before I gave you my number, and also to say sorry for calling so late, but you were still there when I left the Dresden, so I knew I'd get your machine. Anyway, my number is...
Hi. This is Nikki. Leave a message.
2135554679. That's all. I just wanted to leave my number. I don't want you to think I'm weird, or desperate or something... ...I mean, you know, we should just hang out. That's it. No expectations. Just, you know, hang out. Bye.
Hi. This is Nikki. Leaves a message.
I just got out of a sixyear relationship. Okay? That should help to explain why I'm acting so weird. It's not you. It's me. I just wanted to say that. Sorry. This is Mike.
Hi. This is Nikki. Leave a message.
Hi, Nikki. This is Mike again. Could you just call me when you get in? I'll be up for awhile, and I'd just rather talk to you in person instead of trying to squeeze it all...
Hi. This is Nikki. Leave a message.
Hi, Nikki. Mike. I don't think this is working out. I think you're great, but maybe we should just take some time off from each other. It's not you, really. It's me. It's only been six months...
Mike?
Nikki! Great! Did you just walk in, or were you listening all along?
Don't call me ever again.
Wow, I guess you were home...
You little bitch!
Hey Sue. Gretsky's on his ass again.
You should play another team. The Kings are bitches in this game.
Hey, man. I took the Kings to the Cup.
It's kinda money, actually.
Make someone bleed.
No, man, we're in the playoffs.
Pause it.
Give me the money. I'll get it.
...which means no one will get there 'til ten.
So, what? Eleven?
What's he do?
He's trying to be an actor.
...How can you compare them? Tarantino totally bites everything from Scorsese...
...He's derivative...
Who threw this party, anyway?
Damned if I know...
How's it going for you two?
Not well.
Rejected?
Big butt... you know, can't fly coach.
I can't believe you.
She was cute.
She didn't like me... I made a fool of myself...
He's a bitch. He ain't gonna do nothing.
You asshole.
You asshole. Why are you carrying a gun? What? In case someone steps to you, Snoop Dogg?
Hey, man, you're not from here. You don't know how it is. I grew up in L.A...
Yeah. Here it's easier to avoid trouble. It's not like you like in Compton where bullets are whizzing by your head every day. Nobody's mugging you on no subway. In New York the trouble finds you. Out here you gotta go look for it...
...People get carjacked...
You live in such a fantasy world...
What about you, Mikey? At least I got balls. You're always whining about some bitch who dumped you a year ago...
...It was six months, and she didn't dump...
...Whatever. You're like a whining little woman. Big deal. You got a fuckin' number. Whoopee! You'll fuck it up...
I'm so sorry, man. You were so right. I got rid of the gun
What are they doing here?
We ran into them that night at Roscoe's. Tee cleared it up, I apologized, bought them some chicken and waffles. They fuckin love Tee. That boy can talk.
But most important, man, I'm sorry about what I said. I was drunk... My adrenaline was going...
Don't sweat it, man. I needed a kick in the ass. We're better friends for it.
Thanks, man. I've been hating myself for the last two days.
Believe me, I know what that's like. Yo, Double Down! What time are we leaving?
Good for you, man. He's being smart.
She's really special, guys.
And what if I don't want to give up on her?
You don't call.
But you said I shouldn't call if I wanted to give up on her.
Right.
So I don't call either way.
Right.
So what's the difference?
The only difference between giving up and not giving up is if you take her back when she wants to come back. See, you can't do anything to make her want to come back. You can only do things to make her not want to come back.
So the only difference is if I forget about her or pretend to forget about her.
Right.
Well that sucks.
It sucks.
So it's almost a retroactive decision. So I could, like, let's say, forget about her and when she comes back make like I just pretended to forget about her.
Right... or more likely the opposite.
Right... Wait, what do you mean?
I mean first you'll pretend not to care, not call  whatever, and then, eventually, you really won't care.
Unless she comes back first.
Ah, see, that's the thing. Somehow they don't come back until you really don't care anymore.
There's the rub.
There's the rub.
Thanks, man. Sorry we always talk about the same thing all the time...
Hey man, don't sweat it.
...It's just that you've been there. Your advice really helps.
No problem.
Rob, I just want you to know, you're the only one I can talk to about her.
Thanks. Thanks, man.
I don't think I'm gonna take it.
It's a gig.
I mean, I need the money.
You're an actor. Find the Zen in the role.
It's definitely a step back for me.
Look, there's not much of a call for Shakespeare in this town.
There's just something about being "Goofy". Any other Disney character would be fine. There's just this stigma associated with the character.
What do you want? You're tall.
Do you realize how hard it's going to be to tell my parents? I still haven't told them I didn't get the pilot.
You tested over a month ago. I'm sure they figured it out by now.
It's like "Hi, Mom. I'm not going to be starring in that sitcom and, oh by the way, I'm Goofy. Send more money."
Haven't you noticed I didn't mention Michelle once today?
I didn't want to say anything.
Why?
I don't know. It's like not talking to a pitcher in the midst of a no hitter.
What? Like, you didn't want to jinx it?
Kinda.
I don't talk about her that much.
Oh no?
I didn't mention her once today.
Well, until now. Tend the pin.
The only reason I mentioned her at all is to say that I'm not going to talk about her anymore. I thought you'd appreciate that.
I do. Good for you, man.
I've decided to get out there. Go ahead. Play it out.
You want to hit the town tonight?
I shouldn't, Mike, it's a weeknight.
What do you have? A Pluto call back?
Sure. Kick me when I'm down.
How many strokes?
I don't know. Eight or Nine.
I'll give you an eight.
What'd you get?
An eight.
Looks like we're in a dead heat after one hole. This is turning into quite a rivalry.
So, if the party starts at eight, why are we first going to a bar at ten?
To get a drink before we meet the guys for a bite at eleven.
Oh. Where is this place?
It's one of these. For some reason, cool bars in L.A. have to be very hard to find and have no signs out front.
That doesn't sound too good for business.
It's kinda like a speakeasy kind of thing. It's kinda cool. It's like you're in on some kind of secret. You tell a chick you've been some place, it's like bragging that you know how to find it. The only way you could know where a place is is if someone who knows brought you there. You have to have someone come before. There is a direct line connecting you back to the original, unequivocally cool, club patrons. It's kinda like Judaism...
Sounds more like Aids...
...That's probably a more appropriate analogy.
Kinda money, huh?
Classy.
I'll get a Dewars rocks...
Bud.
...A Dewars on the rocks and a Bud, please.
I can't get over how cute the girls in this city are.
I know. It's like the opposite of inbreeding. The hottest one percent from around the world migrate to this gene pool.
Darwinism at its best.
I've been around here six months and I still can't get over it.
It's like, every day I see a beautiful woman. I'm not used to that. I'm used to seeing a beautiful woman, I don't know, once a week. I can't handle it.
Wait till summer. I swear, you can't leave the house. It hurts. It physically hurts.
I can't wait till I actually get to touch one of them.
Ah, there's the rub...
There's the rub.
Charles and me went to network on this pilot together.
I just tested for one...
...yeah, a month ago.
...What's the big deal? Everyone steals from everyone.
Well, let's hit that party.
What's that guy's name? Sue?
Sue. His dad was big Johnny Cash fan.
Oh, like that song...
..."A Boy Named Sue". I think that's why he's such a bad cat.
Him?
He's a mean dude. I've seen him smash a guy's face into the curb. He knocked out his teeth... blood... He was just like Boom, Boom, Boom... fuckin nasty shit, man. He's a nice guy though.
There are so many beautiful women here.
It's unbelievable.
I got to at least try once.
You're a better man than I am, Charlie Brown.
No, I just promised myself I'd give it a try. I gotta get out there sooner or later.
Go for it, man.
I'm going in. Will you be my wing man?
I'll be your winger.
Thanks, man.
No problem, buddy. You eat anything today?
You haven't been drinking, have you?
No. Just O.J.
Sorry about what happened at the Dresden. I had no idea...
Don't sweat it. Now I got an L.A. gun story. You should hear the way I tell to the guys back home. He had an Uzi. Mike halfsmiles.
You want to talk about it?
What's the point?
It's been two days. You should call that girl Nikki...
Uuuuugh!
Oh boy.
I'm such an asshole.
She wasn't your type anyway.
I think I'm gonna move Back East.
Well, that's dumb.
What's dumb about it?
Well, you're doing so well...
How am I doing well? I host an open mike and I played a fuckin' bus driver in a movie. Big fuckin' deal. I'm with an agency that specializes in fuckin magicians. How good am I doing?
At least you didn't get turned down for Goofy...
They turned you down?
They went for someone with more theme park experience. I woulda killed for that job.
See, it's all how you look at it. If your life sucks, then mine is God awful. I mean, I moved out here partially because I saw how well you were doing. You got in the union, you got an agent. I thought if you could make it, maybe I could too...
I didn't make it...
That's your problem, man. You can't see what you've got, only what you've lost. Those guys are right. You are "money".
Then why won't she call...?
Because you left, man. She's got her own world to deal with in New York. She was a sweet girl but fuck her. You gotta move on. You gotta let go of the past. The future is so beautiful. Every day is so sunny out here. It's like Manifest Destiny man. I mean, we made it. What's past is prologue. That which does not kill us makes us stronger. All that shit. You'll get over it.
How did you get over it? I mean how long 'til it stopped hurting?
Sometimes is still hurts. You know how it is, man. I mean, each day you think about it less and less. And then one day you wake up and you don't think of it at all, and you almost miss that feeling. It's kinda weird. You miss the pain because it was part of your life for so long. And the, boom, something reminds you of her, and you just smile that bittersweet smile.
You miss the pain?
...for the same reason you miss her. You lived with it so long.
Wow. You wanna grab a bite?
Sure.
By the way, the guys back home said she put on some weight.
You always know the right thing to say.
How's it going? It's been a while...
...Six months.
How are you doing?
Fine... I guess. You?
Good. I think about things.
Yeah?
Yeah.
What kind of things?
You know, us.
I thought you met someone else.
It doesn't matter. I think about you every day.
Really?
I miss you, Mike.
Why didn't you call?
I couldn't. Do you know how hard it's been not to call you? I pick up the phone every night. Whenever that commercial comes on...
...the Michelin commercial...
...Yeah, with the baby in the tire. One time I started to cry right in front of Pierre...
Pierre... That's his name? Pierre? Is he French?
No, he's not... Listen I don't want to talk about him. That's a whole other headache. I called because I heard you might be moving back to Queens...
Hi.
I heard you might be moving back...
Yeah, uh, I don't think that's gonna be happening any time soon... Listen, can I call you right back? I gotta take this call...
I'm not home and going out of town tomorrow for a week. Can't you talk for five more minutes?
I really want to catch up with you, but I've gotta take this call. They're holding. I'll talk with you when you get back in town. Bye.
Goodbye. I lov...
You said there are advantages to being single. I want to know what the advantages are.
Well... You can talk to a beautiful woman at a bar without worrying if anyone's watching you.
Well... This is it.
Listen. I had a great time.
Me too.
I would love to see you again sometime.
I'll be around.
That's not good enough. I want to make plans to see you.
Let me get a pen out of my car. Do you have something to write on?
You're a comedian?
Yeah. And an actor.
I'll have to come see you sometime.
If and when I get a real gig I'll call you.
It's not going to well?
When I lived in New York they made it sound like they were giving out sitcoms to standups at the airport. I got off the plane in L.A. six months ago and all I got to show for it is a tan.
Didn't you tell me to be patient with my career?
...Yeah, but entertainment law isn't something you just jump into...
Neither is acting. Not if you're serious about it. Can I have one of these?
Why, you like the duck with the cigar?
Yeah. Nice touch. It's the logo from "You Bet Your Life", right?
Good eye. Not one club owner got it. They all ask me why I got Donald Duck on my card.
Hey, at least it's not Goofy.
Well, I should be getting...
...It's really getting late.
...home. It's getting late. Yeah.
Can I give you a ride to your car...?
...Nah. I'm right across the street...
...Which one...?
...The red piece of shit over there...
...well, it suits you...
...get the hell outta here already...
Hello?
Hi, Mike?
Lorraine?
Are you on the other line?
Yeah, hold on.
I can call back...
No, no. Hold on.
Hi. Sorry about that.
You didn't have to get off the other line. I would've called you back.
That's okay. I wanted to talk to you.
Hi, Lorraine. Thanks for holding on.
Listen, Mike. You really didn't have to get off the line. I just wanted to ask you one thing. I know I shouldn't have called, I mean, my friends said I should wait two days... Oh God, I probably sound like such a schoolgirl... It's just that it's tonight only... I mean, it's Sinatra's birthday and they have this thing every year at "The Room". Do you know where that is? It's impossible to find if you've never been there. I don't understand why none of the clubs in Hollywood have signs. Anyway, I'm so bad at this, if you're not busy I thought you might...
Do you ever perform out here? I'd love to see you.
No...
You should. A lot of comics play Vegas.
Well, I'm afraid it's not that easy...
Why not?
There are different circuits... it's hard to explain... you wouldn't understand...
Who's your booking agent?
Oh? You know about booking agents... I don't, uh, actually have a west coast agent as of yet...
Well, who represents you back east?
Actually, it's funny you... I'm actually, uh, between...
What do you do, Trent?
I'm sure she'll call. Six years is a long time. You don't just break it off cleanly after six years.
I know, but she did. She's with someone else now...
Already? You poor thing. It won't last.
Why not?
It's a rebound.
We were a rebound, and we lasted six years.
Yeah, but how long was the relationship she was rebounding from?
Six years.
Can I check my messages? I have a calling card.
Sure, I guess. The phone's in the back.
Sorry, it's just that...
I understand.
On the table.
Sorry?
You have to lay it on the table.
Uh, I don't want to bet it all.
You're not allowed to hand me money, sir. You'll have to lay it on the table if you want me to change it.
Oh... right.
Huh?
You want this in black chips.
Sure, that'll be fine.
Do you have anything smaller?
Yes, but I'm afraid this table has a hundreddollarminimum bet. Perhaps you'd be more comfortable at one of our lower stakes tables.
A couple of high rollers like you?
Could you believe it?
Wait here, I'll get you that martini.
Nah, I didn't really want it anyway. I just wanted to order it.
Can I get you something else? I mean, you shouldn't leave without getting something for free.
No thanks. Why ruin a perfect night.
What do you guys do?
I'm a comedian.
Always...
No matter what... like splitting aces.
Lisa works at the MGM Grand...
I'm a "Dorothy".
Oh my God.
Did you get it?
The poor thing. Six years?
...And she's with someone else.
The poor thing. I'll make some coffee.
He's so sweet. He really said that?
I believe it too. He really just wants her to be happy.
He is so sweet.
Hi, boys, we almost gave up on you.
Oh, are we late? There are no clocks in this town.
Well, no harm done. This is Lisa. I'm sorry, I never got your names...
No... no... The worst was when I went in for this AfterSchool special and I'm sitting in the waiting room with all these little kids. I see they're all signed in for the same role as me...
They were auditioning for the same role as you?
Wait... Wait... Listen... So, I check the time and place. I'm where I'm supposed to be. I call my agent... She says they asked for me specifically...
It's like, you looked at my tape. You saw my picture. Why did you call me in? You knew I was twentyfour.
What an asshole.
Let me just check on my boy.
Don't worry. He's in good hands.
Hi.
My pleasure.
Oh, I'm sorry. How'd your folks take it?
I haven't heard an official "no" yet.
You haven't told then, huh?
No.
I still haven't told my folks I didn't get "Deepspace 9". You'd think they'd'a figured it out by now, but Mom keeps asking...
I'm considering taking a job as a "Goofy".
Hey, man. At least it's Disney.
...I heard it took four days to light for that shot...
...Four days..?
I know what you're saying, man. I don't know what to tell you...
...I mean, does it have to be "Goofy"? I was playing Hamlet offBroadway two months ago, for crying out loud...
Charles! What's up, man?
Oh. You know.
Did you, um, did you get that pilot?
No, man. I know you didn't get it 'cause you wouldn't've asked me. It wasn't that funny anyway...
...piece of shit. Listen, Charles, this is my friend Rob from Back East.
...and boy does it hurt when they ask.
I don't even tell them about anything I'm close on anymore...
...not until you book it...
...and even then...
...you might get cut out.
You want to come with us to a party at the Chateau Marmont? They got a bungalow and lots of beautiful babies.
Why not? This place is dead anyway.
They're out of Glenlivet.
What else is going on?
Why don't I just wait three weeks and tell her I was cleaning out my wallet and found her number...
...then ask where you met her...
Yeah, I'll tell her I don't remember and then I'll ask what she looks like. Then I'll ask if we fucked. How's that, Tee? Is that "the money"?
Hi.
Hi.
I'm Mike.
Hi, Mike. I'm Lorraine.
Like the quiche?
Yes. Like the quiche.
I like quiche.
I thought real men don't like quiche.
My reputation seems to have preceded me.
Why? You're not a real man?
Not lately.
...so I thought, what the hell, they make movies in L.A., not in Michigan, so I moved here.
Just like that?
Well, it wasn't the simple, but yeah.
How was it hard?
Well, I left someone very special behind.
Tell me about it...
You too?
Yeah.
I thought I was going to die.
It's been six months and I'm just starting to get over it.
Oh, God. That's two more than me. Tell me it gets better.
It does.
How?
Well, it still sucks, but you start to see that there are advantages to being single.
Like what?
What what? What advantages?
What else?
What else...? Let's see... You have complete freedom.
To do what?
I don't know... To grow, to go out. Whatever you want.
Anything?
Anything.
Like if I meet a handsome young man and I wanted to ask him to dance? I can do that?
Uh, if the guy wants to.
You don't think the guy would find me attractive enough to dance with?
Yes. I mean, no. I mean, maybe he would find her, I mean you attractive. Maybe he doesn't like to dance. Maybe all he likes to do is just stand around and drink and smoke and look cool with his buddies who don't dance either...
Maybe it doesn't matter if he's a good dancer cause it's a slow song, if that's what he's afraid of.
No... Maybe that's not the case. Maybe she shouldn't be such a smug little shit because she'd be surprised at what a good dancer he really is, but it's been a long time and he doesn't know if he's ready to...
Mike...
How are you ladies doing this evening?
What do you drive?
I'm sorry?
What kind of car do you drive?
Oh... a Cavalier.
You like laughing at the misery of others?
I'm sorry, I couldn't help it. Let me make it up to you.
Thanks.
I've seen you somewhere... Where have I seen you?
You ever go to the Kelbo's? On Pico?
...maybe...
...Monday nights? I host an open mike...
You're a comedian?
Yeah.
What's that like?
Well, you know, it's tough. A lot of traveling. A lot of hotels... but, you know, it's a dream... and the money's really good. I think I might buy another really expensive imported car after my next gig in Vegas...
I know! Starbucks! I served you an espresso at Starbucks.
Are you sure? Maybe...
Yes! Remember? You asked me for an application? I introduced you to the manager?
Oh, yeah... Boy, that must've been a while ago.
I'd say about two weeks.
Probably a little longer than that, but, whatever.
You better pay the man.
Well, thank you...?
Nikki.
Thank you, Nikki.
Michael, this is Grandma. I want to know if you got the part on that television program. I told the whole family and they're very excited to know if... Skipping message. End of final message.
Shit.
You have to put things in perspective.
I know, I know.
You've been through worse.
You're right. I know.
Ever since I've known you.
I don't know about that.
Moving here from New York was much more of an adjustment than this.
It didn't feel that way.
That's because it was a challenge. You has control over you're situation. It was hard, but you rose to it.
Okay. I'll think about that. Bye.
You really should. Life, after all, is really just a series of challenges...
Enough. I've got to use the phone.
Are you calling Her?
No. Stop, come on.
You should call your Grandmother.
Shuddup.
Don't do it, Mike.
Shut up.
Do you realize that I've been waiting for that call for six months and I cut her off?
You're money, baby.
I'm Agent Thomas Mackelway, FBI. There is no way you will escape. Assistant Deputy Director Richard Low is en route with another Agent. You may know Low by another name. You may know him by the name Murman. I am Lionheart.
Murman!
He's a brilliant man. Brilliant enough to catch you.
Brilliant? You think he caught any of them because he was brilliant? Hardboy? MyDick? Imelda? Ripper? Think about it, how did he locate them? He found them as Murman. And how did Murder Man find them? With sweet talk and brains? No. He did it with souvenirs. He took them into private rooms, swapped goodies: pictures, panties, jewelry, body parts. Snuff downloads. As bait. That's why I never exchanged with him. He killed girls, oh yeah, harvested them. He had the best stuff. Richard Low is Murman and Murman is one of us.
You want to "profile" me? Find out what makes me "tick"? Write about me, go on a talk show, give me a nickname?
It's over for you.
Take your shirt off.
Good morning, sir. Agent Salinas, sir.
So you're the new meat?
Yes, sir.
What did you do to end up here?
I believe it's in my file, sir.
Johnny, get this man's file. Mackelway, right?
Thomas Mackelway.
Hot enough for you, Agent Mackelway? Hell's doorknob. What they got you doing?
Updating the condition of all Bureau owned vehicles in the southwest sector, sir.
Sounds like fun.
"Computer Investigation and Infrastructure Assessment Center." Quantico out of MIT  you're a techie? Okay, you screwed up once. So did half the guys here. That's why they're here.
I screwed up twice, sir.
I see that. Washington to Philadelphia to here. Philly's a nice station. How many agents?
Four hundred and sixty, sir.
"Attitude Adjustment Issues"  what the fuck is that supposed to mean?
I wished to be reinstated at Computer Crimes. I was undiplomatic in my request.
This is a first. You criticized the Deputy Director to his face and you still have a badge? You must have some oneofakind skills. Why don't you just quit? I mean, you're not going to get promoted, not wearing this jacket.
I like working for the Bureau, sir. I like catching bad guys. It's all I care about.
Jesus, just what I need, another blue flamer. Johnny, get this boy some sun screen.
Agent Mackelway, you want to get off your ass and do something for a change?
Yes, sir.
Got a vehicle? Head north on 54. When you get to New Mexico you've gone too far.
Headed there now. The same shift will be on at noon.
This case has sent bells and alarms ringing all the way to Washington. Your old boss is coming out.
Koessler?
The same.
No.
Hope you never do. At first it feels like a sauna, by the time you hit victim four it's a fucking burning shirt factory.
"MyDick?"
MyDick. As in my dick. That was his screen name.
I don't...
Eight, nine months ago. When I was at Computer Crime. I got into a chat room with someone named MyDick. I'd talked to him before. Everything I saw yesterday, everything in the autopsies, it's identical. The forensics are dead on. MyDick's fantasies involved a hogtie rig, nylon cord, torture with pliers, rip the nipples  when the "item" screams, she chokes. He had a thing about eyes, always the eyes  stab their eyes. It's the same guy. Speck was MyDick.
Speck is dead.
I talked to him.
But why attack an Agent?
He wants us to know he's out there, what he's doing. It's not enough just to kill somebody like Speck, he wants us to know he did it.
How far is Amarillo?
350 miles.
Now, Mr. Hawkins, when last in Amarillo, where did you get gas?
Locate a jet, we're going to Amarillo.
Excuse me, Agent Mackelway?
This man, Hawkins, has killed dozens of people. Suspect Zero.
I don't think you understand.
What is it exactly I don't understand, Agent Mackelway?
Deputy Director Koessler doesn't want Zero. All he cares about is Low.
Perhaps you can explain it to him. It's Agent Mackelway.
[Fantasy time, girls, give it up, give it up.]
Lionheart here. I'm back. Sorry about the absence. I had to do some therapy at the crossbar hotel.
[Reality very risky.]
Whatever happened to MyDick?
[Lionheart, what happened?]
Something came up, Murman, my man.
[You want to talk, Lionheart, or you want to take this a little more personal?]
Lead the way, Murman.
[Follow me.]
I've been to Chicago.
[Not this way. Call it a little favor, call it a little thing I'm going to do for you. I'm going to make Chicago come alive for you. You'll owe me one.]
If I owe, I will go.
[The address is 147 South Rane. It's a lively address. You got a problem with dark meat?]
Haven't had any, but I'm willing to try.
[Ask for Leslie. Eight days from tonight, exactly one a.m. Be there if you dare. You cannot fool the Murman.]
[If you wanted a good steak, you should have gone to Omaha.]
Let's go someplace private, Murman, I have something for you.
Let's talk about Zero.
[Hello, Agent Mackelway. How's the watch? Maybe you can do one of those TV commercials, I found my watch under a serial killer's heart and it was still ticking.]
I want to help you.
[Not the heart, the watch.]
I've located the Suspect Zero file. Did you know there was one? Koessler ordered it as part of your evaluation.
[Don't jerk a jerkoff. There's nothing in the Bureau mainframe.]
Not everything is imputed to memory. The most confidential stuff is kept top secret hard copy. Why would the Zero file be kept secret?
[You tell me.]
George Sheldon? The second serial killer killed in the manner of his killings. The crime scene profile was never entered into VICAP. At whose request? David Koessler.
[What does the file say?]
I want to go live with you.
[And I want to go back to Needlepoint.]
Leave this room, I'll go back with you, blow your cover.
[I don't think so. We want the same thing. See ya.]
How did you know Speck was a killer?
The little piggie speaks.
Who are you?
I'll give you a little hint. You're a smart guy, figure it out.
Agent Mackelway?
Yes.
This is Richard Low. Stay on the phone. Do not disconnect. I'm watching you. I will instruct you where to drive.
Yes, sir.
When you exit, head east on 10th.
Dave Koessler must have you jumping through hoops.
I believe it is you, sir, who has us jumping through hoops.
How's the arm?
I've been reading, hearing about you. I spoke to Koessler, Professor Daitz.
He couldn't break an egg with a hammer. He still writing those crime porn books?
He's moved on to TV.
He always had a weakness in that area. I saw it the first time I met him. We all had our weaknesses, I guess. Daitz wanted the money. With Dave it was the glory. Koessler saw the Behavioral Sciences Unit as a stepping stone to bigger and better bureaucratic things. He had his eye on the Director's job, even then. Catching killers was a means to an end for them.
What was your weakness, sir?
I'm not sure, exactly. I had monsters on the brain. I wanted to get these guys, every one of them. I got obsessive.
Suspect Zero?
Deputy Director Koessler opposed the theory because it meant pressing the legal envelope, risking highprofile failure. Better to get rid of me. Then he could be Mr. Serial Killer, Mr. Authority on Deviant Behavior  no embarrassing questions about the contribution of one Richard Low. Do you really think that plane crashed by accident? Do you really think I wasn't on it by accident? I've always had a good sense of intuition.
So you went underground?
Was I afraid of Dave Koessler? Not likely. I told you, I'd gotten a bit obsessive. It was an opportunity to back off, think things through. Where's the file?
I don't carry it with me.
You're a smart guy. Tell me what it says.
"Agent Low's theory of Suspect Zero, the undetected serial killer, is delusional, the product of good intentions, paranoia and obsession..."
Hum a tune and I'll sing to it.
The file, however, was kept open after your death. NPE disappearances, No Plausible Explanation, were sometimes filed there, deleted if the bodies were found.
It's my master list of missing persons: men, boys, girls, children over the last ten years. Two hundred and eightyfive names. A pool of possible victims.
Zero killed them all?
Of course not. They're possibles. I've checked them against Bureau records, check them against your file. How did you get it?
Daitz hinted it existed. It was a matter of forming the request in the proper terms.
After my hiatus, after I got my priorities readjusted, I drifted online, started tracking porn chat rooms, looking for Zero. Got accepted, came across these boys swapping stories, pictures, downloads. Never found Zero, but I did come across some Class A scumbags.
How do you know who's real and who's not?
And who else did I find? Agent Thomas Mackelway, crackerjack FBI techie. I was greatly disappointed when you were reassigned.
You knew it was me all along?
Please. You can't hide from me, sonny. I invented the questionnaire. I can tell those who talk from those who do it in the time it takes you to fart.
There's someone out there, Mack, I know, some man killing for the fun of it, sniffing human glue, without regard to age or sex, without predicable M.O. Someone who has a way to dispose of the bodies. You have access, you can call up local authorities, check morgues, conduct interviews. Be my man.
I already have an employer.
If you won't do it for me, do it for your cousin, Nadine, right? The girl in the pink sweater.
Who told you about her?
You did. You were with her when she disappeared, right? She took you to the mall or the movies, you turn around and she's gone.
It was the mall.
I know you, Lionheart. I watched your mind work, heard your dirty thoughts 
Those were just fantasies.
We're alike. We are hunters. We have the gift. It's ancient times all over again. We stand between order and chaos. I need help. I can't carry on alone.
Maybe you should back off.
This guy, Zero, he drifts around, that's how they all start, drifting around, their minds filling up with fantasies. He thinks he's real smart, laughs at us, laughs at his victims. But he has left a trail, and the trail is somewhere in those names. You know how to reach me. Take my advice, when dealing with these FBI tightasses, go by the book. That's what I did.
You? You went by the book?
Yeah, problem was, I had the only copy. See ya.
Is he dead?
Yeah.
The boy's okay. I saw him...
Was it Zero?
Yeah.
Agent...
Kulok.
Agent Kulok, could you wipe my face?
Unlock these cuffs.
Sit back.
Mack must think Zero has a police band.
Of course he does. Now get the key, get these things off me. Unhook me.
Uncuff me. What's wrong with you? Don't you want to save the boy?
I want to protect the boy. I also want to protect Suspect Zero  from you.
Okay, I'll unhook you. No weapon.
No weapon.
Turn around. Stretch your arms over the seat.
Bitch! Cunt! Please, please, please don't do this, Agent Kulok. You need me.
I'll be back.
Thanks for the ride.
They sort of got me on shit detail, no offense.
None taken.
Maybe I shouldn't put it that way. I'm on my best behavior. I've got to watch what I say.
You used to be in the Behavioral Science Unit, right?
The Academy, then CIIAC.
I read your white paper. It's sort of like the Bible for what they're trying to do in Computer Crime.
How long have you been downtown?
Five months. I love it.
You work with Koessler?
Not especially.
Why did he come out here? What's going on?
Beats me. He just asked me to come along, doublecheck the forensics. What did you do to piss him off?
This is a sexy case.
Yeah, you know the vic's car, he was killed this side of the state line, the car then pushed across the border. This by an Unknown Subject, presumably the killer, who left no fucking evidence except the snapshot, which may or may not have been accidental.
Doesn't fit.
This is no random killing, no one shot deal. The UNSUB has killed before; he's good at it. So what do we have? We have someone who has killed before who kills someone who kills: a serial killer of a serial killer  and who wants the FBI to know he exists.
And who kills in the manner of his victim.
That information's being withheld from the media.
A very sexy case.
Some kids found you in a garbage dump.
Where's my watch? It's gone.
Yes I do.
It explains a lot.
Relax. J. Edgar's greatest fear: a female with a badge.
The man knew how to dress.
Don't even go there. What's up?
Setting up. Technically, anyone in a chat room can be traced back to a screen address. But, by using punters, a correspondent literally punts his address around the world, through computers in countries that have no communication treaties. The correspondent becomes "ghosted," invisible.
What about the chat rooms themselves?
That's the beauty of the system. This is a fugitive chat room. It moves from place to place, chat rooms that are normally empty at certain hours: a gardening website, Chaucer buffs, a dating service. A pre arranged code shows up in one of fifty porn rooms  that's where I stumbled across it  notifying "friends" to meet at a certain time, usually midnight to three Eastern Standard, at a certain website  a deserted chat room, say, "How to Plant Perennials." Come Tuesday, twelve a.m., bingo, these likeminded deviates log on and start yakking it up: explicit sex crime gossip, who did what to whom, who wants to do what, when, why and how.
That's part of the reason I dropped by. I need to learn this stuff.
The other reason?
You want to have dinner?
Working the net isn't that different from ordinary undercover work. You go into the community, walk their walk, talk their talk, gain their confidence.
They're all criminals?
No, no, no, most of them  I used to think all of them  are just fantasists, guys who get off telling degrading stories. When I came across this fugitive chat room, listened in, I started to think some might actually be real, that they'd gone live. The challenge was to figure out which was which. Then I had my disagreement with Koessler.
"Gone live?"
Chat jargon for moving from fantasy to real victims: "I went live last month."
This is some serious shit.
Taking a Stryker saw, cutting off the top of someone's cranium, pulling the brain out  what's that, a day in Spring?
You got a point there.
People end up in occupations for a reason. They may think not, but they do: occupations define us.
I was going to be a physician, I am a physician, but I kept drifting over to criminal psych. This seems to be the best of both. My parents still haven't forgiven me.
I was interested in two things: computers and crime. They sort of came together.
And one other thing.
What's that?
Sex.
Look at this fellow... or this one.
Grown man dressed like a clown. Does he really think he looks good?
He thinks he looks young.
What's this country coming to?
Take it to the next level. What are his fantasies, what turns him on, what kind of pornography does he like? If he could act out his fantasies, what would he do? Imagine yourself one of his victims, realizing your life is in his hands. What is he thinking?
My guess: he's wondering whether to get more fries or go straight to the chocolate sundae.
Every cop has a story and every story has a girl. The girl in my story was fifteen yearsold. She wore a pink angora sweater  I can still see it  one day, she disappeared. I told the police she wouldn't run away, I told them who to look for, but I was just a kid. I sat in the police station crying and crying. My parents took me home. The girl was my cousin and the man who abducted her was a teacher I'd had. He kept her alive a week before he killed her. The police could have saved her. Every time I see a photo of a victim I see her. That's what I want to do. I want to save her.
Me too. Make any headway with "Zorro"?
None. Can't find a thing. Nothing on file, nothing online. It's not a part of any known killer's signature.
I was thinking, maybe we should ask Professor Daitz. Nobody knows this stuff better.
That's because he's a fucking wacko. Never met a selfpromotion scheme he didn't like. What's he doing now?
He's a consultant to a network TV program on Profilers. He gets a check every episode.
I ever get like that, just take me out in back and shoot me.
Don't be too harsh.
I saw him on a talk show once, talking about these killers like they were his friends. Not the victims, not the families of the victims, he doesn't talk about them. Blood money, that's what it is. Did he hit on you?
Huh?
When you were his student? Did he come on to you?
Of course he did. He came on to every attractive student. Which bothers you most: that he exploits suffering or that he came on to me?
You must really think I'm a square, a computer nerd.
No, Mack, I do not think you're a square and definitely not a nerd.
Why did Koessler assign you as my liaison?
Because you asked him to, stupid.
Oh yeah, I forgot.
There are Agency regulations about this.
"IntraAgency fraternizing."
It's a nono.
I know.
I've been thinking about this.
Does Koessler ask about me?
He's called a couple times.
What did you tell him?
Just routine stuff.
Not about coming to see Daitz?
Not yet. Not about this, either.
Find the feet?
No. Cut off while he was still alive, look at his wrists, damn near ripped his hands off trying to get free. Must have been screaming real loud when the killer chainsawed his throat. Unfortunately, he'd soundproofed his van.
We got an UNSUB walking around with four feet?
We did find these, however.
Jesus.
We're trying to match them with dump site bodies. This we know is Carol Delview from Tampa, found her last Spring. This one 
The tattoo?
Sue Ann Hanson.
You mean 
You found the body. She was one of Harold Speck's victims. In El Paso. They're not just talking to each other, Mack, they're trading souvenirs.
Did they disconnect Testa's computer?
Not yet. This time they're waiting for you.
You should have seen the store manager at Parade of Shoes. She was inconsolable.
Murman and Imelda had been slipping into a private chat room. Low had poor old Testa drooling on the keyboard. Abduction fantasies, voyeurism, mutilation, teasing him with fetish elements. He is very good. I think it's safe to say Richard Low is Murman.
Mack, I'm sorry. I apologize. I should have called. I had no right to sneak in on you like that.
No, Jaime, I apologize. I didn't... I had no right to speak to you like that.
I came over because I couldn't sleep and was lonely. I wanted to see you. I thought I'd surprise you.
You did.
Maybe we should back off a bit.
I can't. They trust me, they accept me. I've got their confidence.
No, I mean maybe we should back off a bit, you and me.
Oh.
There's the Agency issue. I think Koessler may suspect something already. We're not on the best footing with him as it is.
That's true.
Then there's the other issue.
What's that?
You need time to think. About the case, about you and me.
I found a peephole into Deviant World. I'm gonna reach in and yank some of those creeps out.
And nobody else can do that?
Not the way I can.
That's my point. Remember, you're a cop pretending to be a deviant. It's not the other way around.
Don't confuse what we do with who we are.
I just need to go a little slow.
Hello?
Jaime? Where are you?
Where are you? Everybody's looking for you.
What's up?
I'm in Omaha. Get to the airport. There's been another one.
My watch. He toyed with me. He sent me to Chicago.
You want to get him? Find something he wants. Get him to come to you.
Start killing people for real?
Suspect Zero.
That's a crackpot theory. Everybody says so.
But he believes in it. That's all that matters. He toyed with you, you toy with him. Convince him you've got a lead on Suspect Zero. Use Zero, you'll find Low.
This feels like something out of a spy novel.
I guess I'm a little paranoid.
What's going on?
I met with Richard Low. These are names of missing persons he has flagged. I'm doublechecking every case, but I don't want to be too obvious about it. I marked the ones I'd like you to work on.
Slow down a second, you met with Low 
You were right. He found me.
And you're working with him?
I need something tangible. To hook him. I told him I'd found the confidential file on the Suspect Zero theory.
Does one exist?
Probably. I told him Koessler had ordered the report, kept it secret.
Koessler doesn't know any of this?
I've decided to investigate Low's plane crash. While I'm at it, I thought I'd look at the cases Koessler worked with Low.
I'd be real careful if I were you.
It's too late for that. I've gone ahead of the curve on this one. There's no turning back. When this is over, Koessler is going to be right or Low is going to be right or I'm going to be right, but not all of us.
It's okay to be wrong, just don't be dead wrong.
They say Richard Low is wrong, but because of him, women, innocent women, are alive who would be dead.
You're putting me in a difficult position.
I got an autopsy report from El Paso that doesn't seem right. A girl on Low's list. Karen Sumpter. We're getting a court order to exhume to body. I'd like you to come and look at it. Don't worry, I've cleared it.
Jaime, do you think, when this is all over, when we're in different divisions, you think maybe you and me, we could try again?
Mack, I'm just trying to keep up with now.
But why this pattern?
Could be a lot of things. Depends on the freezer. I'm sorry, Mack, but I don't think this is the answer.
Tom, you okay?
Hardly anyone calls me Tom. Everybody calls me Mack. I always liked that.
You okay?
Yeah, of course.
What's going on?
It's quite advanced.
Burn marks. The original M.E. listed it as "burn residue." Same place, the outer thigh, as Karen Sumpter. The UNSUB is able to abduct, kill, transport and bury without detection.
All the same killer?
Low calls him Suspect Zero.
Suspect Zero is a crackpot theory. You said so.
That's what Koessler wants us to believe. To discredit Low.
You're assigned, we're assigned, to apprehend Richard Low, not Suspect Zero. I have to tell you, Mack, I'm not comfortable where you're going.
But it was your idea: "use Zero," you said, use Zero to get Low.
I haven't changed anything. Damn.
I...
I've got to take a piss.
Jaime 
It's a truck. A refrigerated truck.
Zero abducts victims all over the country, kills them, keeps them refrigerated for days, weeks, even months, then buries them hundreds, thousands of miles away. Karen Sumpter was buried, washed up in a flood. Evans was buried. When we get Zero, we'll find boneyards all across the country.
How are we going to find him?
Get the routes of all refrigerated trucks over the last ten years. We've got three disappearance cities and dates, three parallel discovery cities. Get into the mainframe, let it crunch this information.
What happened?
I'm going to Amarillo.
Miss me, Dave?
Thank you, Rangers. Put this man in the unmarked.
Don't you touch him.
You better hope the Director doesn't stop abruptly one day, David, you might break your nose.
You're a disgrace to law enforcement, to the Bureau  and to me.
How did a girl like me end up in a place like this? The Deputy Director here, he believes in Tough Love. A cop's cop. Shape up or ship out, righto? Agent Kulok, when you get a chance you might want to check the victims of the recent serials. You'll find that some of them have been credited to other killers, some years ago. That's a Dave Koessler trick, find a pliant sociopath, preferably a dead one, attribute to him unsolved cases, clean up the backloglooks great in the yearly report.
You are so fucked up.
Suspect Zero, now there's an idea that doesn't look good on paper 
When I was at the rest stop, there was a young boy, maybe ten, and his mother. Darryl Hawkins, Zero, abducted the boy in the men's room. I tried to stop him. He coldcocked me 
Listen to this guy? Can you believe this? He'll never change. Born a liar, first word out of his mouth was a lie. Make up a story, always a story, any goddamn story, to save his ass.
Agent Kulok, that boy, as we speak, is in Hawkins' truck, probably still alive, in a dark refrigerated compartment, shivering in just a T shirt: put yourself in his mind, freezing, terrified, wanting his mother. Put yourself in his mother's place, desperate, imagining the worst is happening as she pleads, back there at the rest stop, for someone, anyone, to listen to her. This is not hypothetical, this is real. It is happening now and you can do something about it.
Shut the fuck up or I'll shut you up.
You have to save this boy. Good exists in this world. I can prove it because you can, in your life, save this one person.
Look, sorry. Don't say a word. I know this is improper. I've been trying to speak with Deputy Director Koessler. I left a message. I must speak with you before you go back to Washington.
This better be important.
I think I talked to him.
Who?
Speck. Harold Speck.
From the grave?
MyDick.
I'll relay this to CIIAC.
They don't know how to crack these secret chat rooms 
I might point out, Agent Mackelway, the reason we haven't been able to crack those rooms is that you refused to share that information with us  which is also why you were reassigned.
I had gotten their trust. We were sharing fantasies. I couldn't risk it.
The Federal Bureau of Investigation is not based on personal preference. We share information.
Let some bythebook J. Edgar Agents go into the chat room, spook these guys with stupid questions, blow my cover?  no way.
You refused to comply with a direct order.
I was lucky to find, much less crack, the address code  no way to be sure I could have done it again.
Its called insubordination.
Then why do I still have a badge?
How do you feel, Agent
Pretty embarrassed, to be honest. I had him.
Agent Kulok and I were in O'Hare when we heard.
He got away. I had him. He got away.
Do you think he singled you out?
No, just coincidence. He knew who I was, of course. He had my ID  did he keep it?
The cut on your arm  mind if we remove the bandage?
Go ahead.
Agent Mackelway, you're going to get your wish. You're going back to Washington. I want you back in Computer Crimes. Fire up those chat rooms.
This time, sir, if I may be so bold, would it be possible to set up my equipment outside CIIAC, perhaps in military housing at Quantico? I didn't get along very well with the other members of the Division. We thought differently.
You didn't like anyone looking over your shoulder  why was that? What were you doing?
If my Reporting Agent could be someone outside Computer Crimes, perhaps Agent Kulok?
I'll take it into consideration.
What I do requires confidentiality.
I always meant to ask, what is it that makes you so special? Why is it you have this special rapport with multiple killers? Why you?
They like my stories. They like the way I think. They're into fantasy. I turn them on.
You feeling okay, Agent Mackelway?
Had trouble sleeping last night, sir.
Okay, Harold Speck: who goes first?
Nothing concrete. Nothing I'd... well, nothing.
I don't believe this.
I'm hesitant to...
Mack the Mouth at a loss for words.
"Murman" was the alter identity of William Heirens, the original "Catch Me Before I Kill Again" killer. Short for "Murder Man." It was the case that got Richard Low and I started in this field.
I spoke with Lloyd Daitz.
That gasbag. I can imagine what he said. I'm not ashamed to admit that most of what I know about criminal profiling started with Richard Low. I have also, over the years, I admit, taken credit for many of his accomplishments. He was the most brilliant law enforcement individual I ever met.
"Was?"
We had every reason to believe he was on that plane. He was supposed to be on the plane. Everything was incinerated, it was two weeks before we reached the crash site. We, the Director and I, decided it was in everyone's best interest to declare Dick Low dead. That way he could exit a hero.
You suspected all along, suspected he was alive. That's why you came to El Paso.
Dunlevy said there was another case, Ron Rice. In fact, there were two earlier cases where serials were murdered. The second was George Sheldon. I didn't enter it into VICAP  I'll get you the file.
How long ago?
Both in the last year. I suspected only someone as brilliant as Dick Low could find these guys. Look, whatever Daitz told you, nobody wanted to strip Richard of his badge. You have to get close to be good at what he did, the trick is not to get too close.
You knew the arm slash was not "Zorro."
I suspected, but you were the one Low contacted. That's why I brought you back here.
What did you think of the Suspect Zero theory?
It was neither a valid concept nor a valid fact. Suspect Zero came to represent every killer Dick Low had not caught. The idea took root in his head like a wild irrational vine. For someone like Low, there would always be a Suspect Zero. We couldn't let Richard go where that idea was taking him.
I got a look in Testa's computer. His screen name was "Imelda." Have to give him that, had a sense of humor.
Collected shoes too?
We're waiting for trace evidence results on the Rice killing.
We need to put out an NCIC inquiry.
How do you send out an APB on a dead man?
Huh?, sir.
I want to catch Dick Low, more than you can imagine, but I cannot risk going public. What happens when the media finds out that a former FBI Special Agent, a founder of the Behavioral Sciences Unit, is not dead, but instead alive and killing people, not ordinary people, but, even worse, serial killers, making him some sort of white knight vigilante? You keep at it. We'll find him, we'll find him in our own way.
Why did you go to Chicago?
I was visiting an old college friend.
You didn't tell anyone where you were?
An oversight, sir, I apologize. I felt I needed to get away for a day. The pressure. Paid for my own ticket.
I'm told you've asked for a Bureau crosscheck of flight records to and from El Paso, Ft. Myers, Omaha, the Murman murder time frames.
I was looking for a pattern.
That breaks my confidentiality stipulation.
I didn't use Low's name.
There was talk of a file photo.
In Ft. Myers before your instruction. Nowhere else, sir.
Watch out for Dick Low, he's a liar; he has his own world. There was a Junior Agent in Seattle, not unlike you, an Agent who fell under Dick's spell. He'd have done anything for Agent Low. Richard got this Agent to take a suspect to the crime scene, beat him up, force a confession  all unauthorized, all illegal. The Agent died that night, killed by the suspect. Richard Low got him killed. Worst of all, we had to hush it up, let the suspect go. The suspect was George Sheldon, the second man Richard killed.
I understand.
As far as the public knows, Richard Low is dead. And he will stay dead until we kill him.
He's got you believing in Zero now too.
I need to get to Amarillo immediately.
Have you told Richard Low about Amarillo?
I can't. The chat room isn't open for another five days.
We'll wait. Get online with Low, inform him of Zero's route  we'll set a trap for him.
What about Zero, Darryl Hawkins?
Hawkins isn't the target, Richard Low's the target.
There's a killer out there  we know who he is. He could be stalking now.
Dick Low's a killer too.
You're as crazy as he is! He's right! You don't give a damn about saving lives at all! Fuck you!
Chuck, hello. This is Agent Kulok. She has a background in medical forensics.
Just an observer.
We didn't know Speck was a serial, the police didn't know, his wife didn't know  so how did the killer know?
Maybe cause he's smart.
Smarter than us.
Sorry to interrupt you, sir, but I thought you'd like to know.
What?
We have another one.
Another what?
Serial killer killed. In Ft. Myers. Cut up in his van. And this time we got a witness.
Deputy Director, get out, sir.
What are you doing?
Please.
Mackelway, I could understand. He is overemotional by nature, but you, Agent Kulok, you had a shining career in front of you.
Just step outside, sir. Now. Keep your hands where I can see them.
Speck's the killer all right. We got box loads of evidence. Did 'em all the same way: torture, strangulation. Prostitutes. I don't think we'll be able to write off any outstandings on him  this is probably the full body count.
What about his killer?
Nada. Vague description, that's all. Finetoothcombed Speck's car, the diner: no fingerprints, no trace evidence.
What's with the eyelids?
You have the photo from the diner?
At the field office.
Let's take a look at it. Drop off my stuff at the hotel after you're done here.
He said it was a clue?
Maybe something to do with Zorro.
Don't say that. Don't even think that. The next thing we'll be hearing about "Zorro Killer" in the media  this hasn't gotten out, has it?
Just hospital talk. Nothing that connects to Speck.
This could all be a coincidence, but, you know something, I don't believe in coincidences. That's why I came back. Do you think the UNSUB  we're not going to mention the word Zorro  met Harold Speck online?
The man who was with him, he was a construction worker?
Yes.
What did he look like?
I didn't wait on him. Fifty or so, white, regular build, needed a shave  that's all I remember.
How did you know he was a construction worker?
He had an orange hat on.
He was sitting here?
It's been wiped down a hundred times since then.
There was a car in the lot when we closed. Gone today.
What kind?
An old junker. Like a reservation car. Blue, side door with brown, you know, primer paint. New Mexico plates. A Ford or ah, yeah, a Ford.
Put a BOLO out on that.
Jesus.
Hi. What's in the case?
You... surprised me.
Sorry. I've seen you in here. Always lugging that case around. Whatja sell?
Ah... restaurant supplies. I didn't get your name.
You must travel a lot, huh?
Yeah.
Whole country or just hereabouts?
I don't mean to be rude, but...
Just gettin' a jolt of java before headin' on home? How does your wife feel about it?
What?
About your being away all the time. Must get lonely.
Look...
You must get lonely. You ever think about, you know...
Excuse me?
You know, you ever think about other women?
What are you...?
Fucking. I'm talking about fucking, Harold. You ever think of fucking other women?
Look, mister...
Take a look, Harold. Tell me if you see anything you want. You do like to look, don't you?
My God.
Not bad, huh?
You're a... you're sick.
What's wrong with me?
Calm down, Harold. Okay, here's what we're going to do, Harold: there's a pull off up ahead, we're going to stop there.
Oh God, mister, please leave me alone.
You're going to miss it. Pay attention.
What do you want from me?
I've been looking for you.
Why me? What do you want from me!?
There seems to be a discrepancy.
Not a discrepancy, an error. My capacity is 5.5 tons, not 6.
I have 6 tons.
Mam, it's my truck. I know my own capacity.
You can't imagine how many men have told me that.
It's been customized for sleeping capacity.
Oh yes, I see. You must get asked this a lot.
Not as much as you'd think.
Ligature strangulation, just like his victims. A cord, nylon, you can tell by the indentation signature  again, like his victims. Look at that little thing and look at all the trouble it got him in. Should have cut it off.
I'm not in the mood for Native American wisdom.
We had to bring staff in from the whole county to handle this.
I appreciate it, doctor. You know how it is, press screaming for answers, Washington's all over me. Ever handle a serial case?
Be my guest, Agent Kulok, scrub suits are in the back.
This is Agent Mackelway.
Ripped off. By hand, my guess. Perimortal: victim was alive at the time, there's blood on his throat.
That's the thing. Don't know if it connects, but Harold here had a thing about eyes. Two of the victims had their eyes gouged out, another punctured. Took polaroids after.
The family has gone through a lot. Their daughter missing, the search, her body found, the funeral  then this order to exhume the corpse.
I'm sorry. This won't take long.
The body was embalmed. I don't understand 
Turn the body over. There was something in the autopsy report, yes, here. These burn marks.
A grill pattern.
We need to run this through VICAP, search for similar burns.
You run the plates?
Fella's name is Harold Speck, travelin' man out of Roswell.
Excuse me, a salesman gets done in his car and you call the FBI?
Well, the victim was killed at the turnaround over there, then his car was pushed over here... ...right across the state line. That makes it Federal. This is Officer Wallace, he's out of Alamogordo.
Where's the Nuevo American Diner?
Ten miles back on the Texas side.
I hope that wasn't a joke because I can assure you, from personal experience, the FBI does not have a sense of humor.
That's right, Jan.
Nine bodies in Roswell, now this  it's getting a little hairy, huh?
I'd appreciate it if you kept this to yourself.
I know how the Feds like to sit on information. I got something in the car to show you.
Her name is Karen Sumpter, from near Dell City. Just disappeared a couple weeks back. Vanished.
You're thinking...?
Who knows.
This isn't in our database?
I just assumed she ran away. Happens a lot around here. Look around. This place is an invitation to run away.
Agent Mackelway.
Mack, this is Sheriff Dylan.
Oh Jesus, Sheriff, I am sorry. I meant to call you  I got distracted  the Sumpter girl was not one of Speck's victims. That's the good news.
What's the bad news?
You tell me.
No bad news. You know the Be On the LookOut you asked me to send on the diner car  we got a hit on it. A little town on the border, Socorro. We got it staked out  you interested?
I'm on my way.
Hey, Sheriff.
Down the road a piece is the Golden Sunset, the notell motel, Socorro's contribution to international relations. The car's just sitting there, no activity. I've had a couple Hispanic officers casing it all day. Want to take a look?
What does the Manager say?
I sent a female in. The room in question was rented by an Anglo, cash; since then, nothing  no activity, no phone response.
Let's take a look.
The room key's in the car. On the seat.
And it's getting dark. I'm not going to run this into the night. Eddie, we're walking in. Everything covered?
Show's over, boys. Nobody home.
Tape it off, we'll want to finetooth comb it. My guess is that the UNSUB is having us on. He checks in, pays, picks up the key, but never walks inside. Tell me if I'm wrong.
Got a sister like this, what they call it, anal? That's her.
Dylan here.
Sheriff Dylan, this is FBI Agent Thomas Mackelway. Remember me?
Hi there.
I want to talk about the Karen Sumpter case.
You heard?
What?
Her body turned up. In a Minnesota cemetery. They brought her back.
You have the body?
She's buried.
I want the autopsy report, where is it, Minnesota?
Winona.
Welcome back, sir. How was the vacation?
Takes four days to chill, then its time to come back. Is that...?
Yeah.
Agent Duncan, there's an interstate issue up on 54, run out there.
I'm babysitting the DEA guys this afternoon, Casio and I. You said that was top priority.
Agents Duncan, Mackelway. Anything new?
Just mopping up. Nine bodies in all.
Anybody talk to the press?
No, sir.
The diner?
Have you had a chance to think about 
Zorro. Yes, ran it through my files, even asked around: came up completely blank. Thought there might be a Mexico connection, El Paso and all, but nothing. Fooled around with the letter "Z," turned it on it's side, got "N"  there Ng, he's Vietnamese. The only thing that came to mind was zero, not Zorro. Remember Suspect Zero?
No.
Before your time. It was Richard Low's brainchild, or, lackofbrain child. The Behavioral Sciences Unit at Quantico is essentially the product of three men: David Koessler, Dick Low and myself. Low was a field agent, Koessler administrative, I was teaching criminology. Low came up with the concept of a serial killer's signature. He invented profiling. Everything we know about profiling started with Richard Low...
...well, there was some friction: I wanted to write up my work, educate the public, but Koessler wouldn't allow it. Low felt Koessler was more interested in career advancement than catching killers. Koessler had Low reassigned to the Pacific Northwest, Seattle. You know when they say, stick it where the sun don't shine? That's where they stuck Dick Low.
Pacific Northwest is a hotbed for serials.
You got that right. Low became obsessed with the Green River murders, the case had been inactive for ten years at that point. He argued the Green River Killer had actually become Suspect Zero, this master murderer who killed without pattern, killed literally hundreds of victims  male, female, old, young, straight, gay  and who was still killing, even though there were no bodies. It went against everything we knew. Low became increasingly paranoid. Every suspect was potentially Suspect Zero. Anybody tried to talk sense into him, he'd accuse them of being out to get him. Deputy Director Koessler was "out to get him." The decision was made to relieve him.
Does Koessler know about the Suspect Zero theory?
Of course. He knows everything about Dick Low.
Was this him?
Um... he was older.
Besides that.
To be honest, when I'm working, I don't look at faces much. He knew the guy's name.
Testa?
The bearded guy, the creep. Oh, one other thing. Testa, if that's his name, he kept mentioning my feet. Said I had very pretty feet.
No. I haven't noticed because I make my payments. So, Max Pelcher, how's the P.I. business?
Sucks. Hey, Bobby, turn that up.
Hey, isn't that Tran Vo?
Yup. He was Jeriko's manager. Bummer, Tran! Lost your golden goose. Couldn't happen to a nicer guy.
But I mean isn't he Faith's new
Sssssh! Not in front of Lenny. You may trigger a maudlin display which will force us to tranquilize him.
He's skullfucking you, bud. Trying to get a reaction. Maybe pushing you to do something.
Maybe he just figures Lenny will appreciate what he's created. It's the dark end of the street, Lenny. How do you like it now?
Problem is, Lenny knows everybody.
Take the tape to the cops.
Those two psycho cops are on a slashandburn to find the tape and cover their tracks.
This seems a little sophisticated for them. These are not subtle guys.
There's more to this whole thing than you think.
So you're saying we just pretend is didn't happen? It happened! The LAPD executed one of the most important black men in America! Who the fuck are you to bury this?!
Fine. Do you want blood running waist deep in the storm drains? The gangbangers'll spread like a wave through this city and burn it to the ground. And when the fires start the street cops'll be capping off at anything that moves. It'll be all out war and you know it.
Yeah, well maybe it's time for a war!
You really want that on your head?
Where were you Mom? Did you meet a guy?
Just Lenny.
Right. That explains it.
Are you going to make me beg?
What is that?
Cheerios and wieners. I made it myself. It's good.
Well give me some then... I'm starving.
We're going to aunt Cecile's, honey. We're going to watch fireworks from there. Let's go. Chop chop.
Aw, Mom!
Greetings, gents. So let's hear this week's sad story.
They jerked my wheels, d'you believe it? I mean it's outrageous, the computer errors the banks are making lately. Have you noticed?
Thanks for giving me a ride. I just have a few stops, mostly on the west side
Whoa, whoa, whoa. I said I'd drop you home, but I'm not taking you on your sleazoid rounds. I've already pulled twelve hours today.
Come on, Mace. This is gonna be a big night. Can't you feel it? The energy in the air? There's money to be made, dreams to sell.
Sleaze to peddle.
Just a couple of hours. It'll be fun
Excuse me. What part of NO don't you understand?
Mace, you're my friend. I need you. Plus I'll give you 25% of what I make tonight.
Lenny, this may be a hard concept for you, but friends don't have to pay their friends.
Jeez, you're pathetic. Okay, I got a pickup at the St. James. I'll take you there, you can get a cab.
Mace! You're a lifesaver.
Driving Mr. Lenny.
So, what's up with you? Another busy night selling porno to wireheads?
No, wrong... I sell experiences. Sex is only part of it.
Buncha technoperv jerkoffs.
Way I look at it, I actually perform a humanitarian service. I save lives.
Uh huh, I wanna hear this part.
Okay, take some executive... bored with his life, bored with his wife... he picks up a hooker or some girl at a bar. Then he goes around for months, torn up worrying that he's got AIDS, that he'll infect his wife. And maybe he really does catch something
Price he pays for being a scumsucking pig.
Everybody needs to take a walk to the dark end of the street sometime, it's what we are. But now the risks are outa line. The streets are a war zone. And sex can kill you. So you slip on the trodes, you get what you need and it keeps you from jumping your tracks.
Lenny, this shit's illegal.
Define illegal.
Me bailing your sorry pale ass out of jail twice in the last six months.
Yeah, but that was for love.
Define love.
What's his name?
Fumitsu.
Mr. Fumitsu, good evening sir, Leonard Nero, Security Express. Lornette Mason here is just completing our routine driver evaluation. We do it to make sure that out VIP clients, such as yourself, are always treated as honored guests. I just need to ride up front and take some notes, if you don't mind.
What the fuck are you doing?
Coming with you.
You will not live to see the morning.
Are we having a bad night?
Let's talk in the car.
Hey, careful on the jacket. This is Armani. You angry?
I've had enough of this shit. You're on foot, Lenny.
In LA? Are you crazy?
I need my case. It's still in the back.
Get it.
That would be no.
I've had it. No more wirehead shit in my car. You understand? You want to poach your lobes, do it somewhere else.
Okay, you got my attention, but this is cutting off the circulation to my head, here. D'you mind?
I thought we were friends.
No, see a friend is more than one person constantly doing favors for another. You just suck people along with your schemes and your scams and your slick act. Well I'm out. I got a kid, I got rent, I got an ex husband someplace who doesn't send me a dime of support... I'm just trying to hold on here.
So am I. Just trying to get by.
No, you're just trying to get off.
Macey... I've never seen you like this.
Lenny, you're turning into some kinda squidhead lowlife. You're always broke, you just go from one score to the next. And you're getting strung out... you don't even see it. Getting high on your own supply like some crack dealer.
I know you wouldn't be saying all this if you didn't care about me. Thanks, Mace. Really.
Look, I gotta get some sleep.
You still like me, don't you? We're still buddies?
Yeah. I don't see a way out of it.
Macey, I know you're tired, but can you drop me at the Retinal Fetish? It's on your way.
Jesus, Lenny.
Begging? Groveling? Any pathetic behavior at all? Will that help? Faith's there tonight, and I've got to talk to her.
Sure, Lenny. The only thing worse than a junkie is someone in love.
Who's the new side of beef in Tran's posse?
Guy named Wade Beemer. Used to be a running back for the Rams in '96 and '97.
Rams... that's football, right?
Forget her.
She still loves me.
She thinks you're a bucket of dog vomit. Trust me on this.
She's my destiny.
Destiny? You living in a perfume commercial? She's a hardclimber that dropped you like a used tampon when she got a better ride.
You'll see.
You're some piece of work, you know that. Just calmly backstroking around in the big toilet bowl, and somehow you never let it touch you. I mean, between Vice and this so called occupation you're in now, you must've seen it all.
I have crawled through the gutter... through every wrinkle in the human brain.
What I'm saying. But you still come out this goofball romantic.
It is my sword and my shield, Macey.
What's that? Present from Faith?
No idea.
What is it?
Go to the Sunset Sheraton. RIGHT NOW! Just go! GO!
My God, Lenny. What is it?
Black. Jack.
Blackjack? I don't understand
Snuff clip. It was Iris. She said she needed my help and I... aw Jesus, Mace... the sick fucker killed her.
Are you sure it's real?
And gives it to you.
Wants to share.
Cause you're the man, right? The Magic Man. If it's got something to do with the wire, sooner or later it washes up on your beach.
I've never dealt in blackjacks. Never. Everybody knows that.
Jesus, Mace. Back off.
This guy is someone you know, one of your squidhead contacts.
Uh unh. No way! They'd crucify me.
So some psycho wirefreak gets to keep running around
Is this great fabric or what?
You ever wonder why you get beat up a lot?
Never really thought about it.
He knows what he's doing. He's worn before... a lot.
So that gives you something.
It gives me... I don't know... maybe two hundred people who I know wear.
Don't crank the gain any more. You're gonna fry yourself.
I need to see more... get more detail. Something. I feel his presence, so strong...
No more, Lenny.
Yeah. I'm ghosting pretty bad.
She came to me for help. I should have read it better... I just figured, y'know... another strung out hooker having a bad night.
It's not your fault.
See, it's all about what they see walking in. A dead hooker, handcuffs, penetration... they'll see a trick gone wrong. Random kill. The kind you never solve.
But that doesn't add, does it.
No it doesn't.
Because Iris knew somebody was after her.
She said "If they get me". They. Which means the whole sexkiller thing is a cover, which means somebody whacked her for a reason.
So the guy's not a sicko.
If he could do what's on that tape, he's a sicko.
Okay, so he's a freak who thinks he's sane pretending to be a freak. The point is, he was a hitter. Somebody wanted to shut her up. But why not just put a little lead in her ear?
Because it had to look random. Not connected to anything or anyone. But then why give the rape to me?
That's where it gets a little strange.
And what about the guy that was following me?
Now you're really getting paranoid.
The question is not whether I am paranoid, but whether I am paranoid enough. You want to rub my neck?
Sure.
How's Zander?
OK. He asks about you all the time. It's been weeks since you've seen him.
I'm sorry about getting on your case earlier. I just see you getting sucked in deeper and deeper, and I  anyway. I'm sorry.
S'okay. I know you still love me.
Whatup Lenny?
Jesus, Mace!
Where we going?
Anywhere. We'll talk about it in the car.
What is it?
This tie doesn't go with blue!
Will you relax. There's nobody back there.
Mace, the guy had a knife. To my throat. In my living room. Relaxing might be right out, okay?!
You better keep a low profile for a while.
No shit. You got someplace in mind?
Lenny, have you lost it completely?
Easy, there, Mom. Easy. This is audio only. John Coltrane. "A Love Supreme." Give it a listen, let me know what you think, maybe you won't go for it now, but it'll get in your head and grow like a seed into something really beautiful.
Think back about what she said. Exactly what she said.
She wanted to go out to my car, something about my car...
Something in your car...
Lenny, give them the tape.
It's in my case. Okay? I'm going to open my case...
Shit!
Take it easy. The glass is bullet resistant.
Bullet resistant? Whatever happened to bullet proof?
Lenny. Calm down. This is what I do.
Goddamnit!! 911 is busy!
It's okay, Lenny They'd never get here in time anyway.
This is bad.
The gas tank's going to go any second!
Are you out of your fucking mind?!
Fire's out, isn't it?
I can't believe we had to give them the damn tape.
Yeah, me neither. It was one of my favorites. Me and Faith in a hot tub on my birthday. I'm going to really miss it.
Those two guys were cops.
You sure?
It's the walk. Something. Anyway, they'll run your plates and get your address. We gotta keep moving.
Tell me.
I can't tell you. You've got to see.
Uh unh. I won't do it.
Mace. I know what you think about the wire. But I'm asking you to do this. It's that important.
Hang on. Hang on, Max. You see?
I see. I see the earth opening up and swallowing us all.
Yeah I know. So what do we do?
We got to make another copy of this. Little life insurance.
You know what this tape could do if it gets out.
I've got a good idea, yeah.
People finding out... seeing... that the LAPD just flat out executed Jeriko One. Jesus. Maybe they ought to see.
Maybe. But tonight is probably not the best night. Come on, we're rollin'.
So, let's see, I've got Tran's goons, some squidhead psycho and the LAPD all trying to kill me. Happy new year, Lenny.
Well, look at the plus side.
There's a plus side?
Yeah. You gave up your hot tub tape to save me. That's real progress for you.
It was a tough call.
I still can't square the psycho smarts of whoever did Iris with those two cops.
I don't think those cops did Iris. I think whoever Iris was wearing for killed her.
Why?
To break the trail. If those cops had gotten hold of her, they would have beat it out of her who she was wearing for, and then gone after them too. Our killer is running as scared as we are. Which makes him really dangerous. Judging by how scared I am.
He's totally cut off from the outer world.
How long does it last? Oh.
The only card we have to play is the tape. You know, we get it to the media somehow...
Yeah, right, blow it open.
Who's Strickland?
Deputy Commissioner Palmer Strickland. The sanctimonious prick who busted me out. His ass is so tight when he farts only dogs can hear it. I know this guy. If there's one cop who's not dirty it's him.
Kinda guy you can count on in a pinch.
Why didn't he just go public with the tape? Save himself that way.
Okay, we gotta get over there. Can you borrow a dress from Cecile or something
I'm not going.
Whatya mean? We're going! Tran's gonna do her right there unless
Lenny... shutup. Just park your mouth and listen. It's a setup. Think about it! Why's he been sending you tapes? To freak you, get you to rush in without thinking. Then they put one in you, put one in her, put the gun in your hand... crime of passion. This guy's bent enough to think of that.
Yeah. Lenny. I have.
It didn't stop you from loving them. Right? Or understanding them, or being able to forgive them...
I guess.
And it didn't stop you from wanting to protect them. Did it?
No. It didn't.
I worked Vice, Narcotics... Violent Crimes... and I saw every known depravity. I was lost, Mace. In outer darkness. Then I busted this strungout little teenyhooker. When I met Faith she was just another runaway giving twenty dollar blowjobs to buy crank. Another lost soul.
You never told me.
But she was different. There was a light in her eyes... and she had this voice. It was scary, all that pain coming out of that little body. Like she could take all the hurt and rage of the entire world and lift it up to heaven in one voice. I helped her. And I promised her that I'd always be there... to protect her. See? It's not about what's in her head. It's what's in mine. I can't let go of the promise. It's... like... it's all I have left.
No, it's not.
Mace... you're a girl.
Good, Lenny. I can see why the detective gig didn't work out. Come on.
Got your ticket?
No. They must have sent it to my beach house by mistake.
You see Tran?
Uh unh.
Alright. We're going up.
And do what? Take on his whole posse?
I still got one ace to play. Tran's got what I want... and I've got what he wants...
That's the original. There are no copies.
Exactly. That's why it's a make able deal.
Take it to him.
A cop? You want me to trust a cop?!
No. Trust me.
Oh boy. What if you're wrong?
Then we'll be right where we are now.
Yeah, right. Fucked.
Are we under arrest?
Naw. They just have to ask us a few questions... for about six hours.
Hey, Lenny. We made it.
Yeah. We did.
Well... Get going. You're still bleeding.
See you downtown.
Yeah. See you there.
Nero.
Strickland.
Commissioner Strickland.
Sure. Whatever. See, since you shitcanned my career, I don't even have to call you sir. One of life's small pleasures.
Aren't you peddling your wares a little far from your usual gutter?
I was invited here by a close friend, Mr. Fumitsu, see he's right over there.
I don't like disappointments, Nero. And do you know what disappoints me very much?
Your sex life?
Your existence.
You come to peddle me some tapes, Lenny? For old time's sake? Make a couple bucks for the holidays?
You're not a client anymore, Tran. I wouldn't sell you the sweat off a dead dog's balls.
I already got everything I need from you.
Show a little respect, Nero. The man was an important artist.
Yeah, important for your label. Which no doubt is why you're in mourning. Don't worry, his records'll sell out now he's dead. You'll make out.
I always do.
Faith, can I talk to you a second?
About what?
That would be between me and Faith, wouldn't it?
Charm.
Uh huh. Look, Nero. I'll make you an offer. Take her. Right now. If she wants to go, if she's unhappy here, she can go. I'll let her choose. Faith always knows what she wants. Hands off. See?
It's alright. He means it.
I do mean it. And I mean this... if Faith stays you go away and never come back. You scuttle back into your cockroach hole and never cross my vision again. You understand?
Don't have a fucking coronary, Lenny.
Well you could've at least warned me. You know I hate the zap... when they die. It just brings down your whole day. Jeez, Tick.
Sorry.
How'd you get the tape? Why didn't the cops put it in evidence?
With all the blood I guess they didn't see the rig. Guy had it under a wig.
Yeah, but how'd it get to you?
I got ways, Lenny, I got ways. Okay, okay... I got a deal with some a the paramedics. My guy pages me and I pick it up at the morgue. So whaddya think? This clip's gotta be worth at least a grand. Right?
Tick. Not to dash your hopes, but I don't deal this kind of product, you know that. I'll give you four for it, cause I've gotta cut off the last bit. And my customers want uncut.
Fuck that! The last part's the best. You drydive six stories and blammo! Jack right into the Big Black.
I don't deal blackjack clips! It's policy. I got ethics here.
Yeah, when did that start? Come on, man! It's what people want to see, and you know it.
So lay it off to somebody else.
Come on, Lenny. I got expenses. I got to get this rig fixed. Look at it...
Give me six at least. This's a good clip, here. Gets you pumpin'.
Yeah, well, the first part's okay. Better than the usual soaps you bring me.
Now that is cold, Lenny. I always bring you choice.
Sure, like this lowgrade shit here, some girl in a fight with her boyfriend... it's a testpattern. Nothing happens. I'm snorin'.
Hey, you're always saying, 'Bring me real life. Bring me street life. And, like, one man's mundane and desperate existence is another man's Technicolor.'
I said that? Look, I'll take it for five, and you'll make out okay, because in this case it's pure cream, you don't have to cut anything back to the wearer.
Ha! That's for fucking sure.
What else you got?
Whoa. That is one unbelievable piece of eyefuck.
Skip the art criticism, Tick, what can you tell me about the wearer.
Well... the guy's fucked up.
Lookit, you see the peak period ratios there? Could be some kind of tumor or brain lesion or something. Some kind of trauma This is not good. I don't like this at all...
What?
Well, it's cutting awful close to me. I mean she was just here.
Who was just here?
Iris, man. Pay attention.
Wait, wait... wait a minute. Iris was here?!
Yeah, she came by last night. Shaking like a junkie, wanting me to make a copy of some clip.
What clip? What was it?
I don't know, man, she wouldn't let me see it. Said I wouldn't want to see it. She said she was going to give it to you to hold for her. Like insurance or somethin'
She never gave me a tape.
You see the look on that preppy puke's face? Fuckin' pissed in his Topsiders.
Okay. It was funny. But it cost me money.
Come on, amigo, the world's full of marks. And nobody knows how to work 'em like you do, pal. You could sell a goddamn rat's asshole for a wedding ring! Let me buy you a drink.
Least you can do.
Bobbyyyy! Tequila por favor! Double shots. Make it Tres Generaciones, huh. Nothin' but the best for my good friend Lenny, the finest cop that ever got thrown off the vice squad. Hey, nice tie.
Thanks, Max.
D'you always have to dress like a fuckin' pimp?
This tie cost more than your entire wardrobe.
That's not sayin' much.
It's the one thing that stands between me and the jungle.
You were lucky, Max.
Yup. So darn lucky. I wake up with a .22short floating in my brainpan, and a cop pension I can't live off of. Good thing I wasn't any luckier. Bobby! Another shooter right here!
Naw. She won't call me.
Just as well, Lenny. You gotta get past it. I mean sure, Faith was by far the most outstanding woman a guy like you could ever hope to get, I mean it's completely and deeply humiliating that she's gone, but it's over, campadre.
Thanks, Max. I'm touched by your concern.
I just hate to see you pining away. It makes me want to vomit, frankly. Broken hearts are for assholes.
Hey, Iris, you okay?
See, if you packed your piece you could've made the guy see sense.
Uh unh, carrying a gun wrecks the line of a fine jacket.
An excop that doesn't carry. It's embarrassing. I oughta not be seen with you. Hey, Mace. What's goin' on?
I'm telling ya, it's over. We used it all up
Shutup a second!
Shoulda told me about your new gig, buddy.
I was gonna tell ya. Hey, it's just a job. I feel like shit about it.
You should feel like shit.
I figured, what the hell, I could take the prick's money and make sure Faith was OK at the same time. Do us both good. Right?
Fairly twisted logic, Max, even for you. Hey, at least you got a job! Watch her for me. Stay on her.
I'm on her.
You alright? Y'okay?
Yeah. No, not really.
Let's work it.
Not now... I don't want to think about it
Come on, Lenny. You used to be good at this stuff. Play it down. What's the perp doing?
He stalks her. He rapes her. Then he does her...
And he records it. Thrill kill. Wants to see it again. And again.
He records himself raping and killing her
But at the same time he's sending the signal to her
So she feels... what he feels... while he's in her. The thrill while he's killing her... is sent to her, heightening her fear... which in turn heightens the turn on for him. I've seen a lot, Max.
So've I. Too much.
But this is a bad one.
Top ten.
He makes her see her own death, feeds off the reaction... killer and victim merging... orgasm and agony merging. And he records it all.
That's right. He wants to share. Needs an audience. This is one sick puppy.
Why me?
Hey, the last day of the world and you spend it in bed.
W'sup, Max?
Faith OK?
Yeah. She's leaving with Tran so I got to boogie. Real quick... Iris checked into the Sheraton last night under a false name. Paid cash.
Looks like she was holding out.
Yup. Hey, so I heard you dropped in on Tran last night. Another slick Lenny move.
He's in this somehow... I don't know how. Just stay close to Faith.
I'm on her, amigo. No worries. Gotta jam.
Sounds like Tick's already celebrating.
You may be a little overdressed for this party. Yo, Tick! It's Lenny. Open up!
He's been cookedoff
Is he dead?
No. But his frontal lobes are like two runny eggs. They put an amplifier inline to boost the signal till it frenchfried his brain.
Whattya mean?
All I'm saying... you don't know how high up the food chain this thing goes. I've heard stuff.
What stuff?
Smoke. Rumors. I've heard stuff about a death squad. A group a guys loyal to the hardline school. Guys that've had too many years of city hall and the review boards and the goddamn media pissing down their necks, suspending cops right and left, tying their hands... while outa the other side a their mouths these same people're squealing save us, save us, do something you fucking morons, crime is totally out of control.
Jesus.
Yeah. So don't walk near me in public, alright.
Thanks, buddy. See... things weren't bad enough. They weren't fucking bad enough!
Mace... no disrespect... but you run this on the 11 o'clock news, by midnight you got the biggest riot in history. They'll see the fucking smoke from Canada.
Okay... what about Strickland?
No. Bad idea.
He's got her up in the room, under guard. And he's still working the party... acting smooth like nothin's nothin'. So buddy... I say we work a trade.
What do you mean?
Give him the tape. See? It's fucking brilliant! The tape for Faith. I know he'll go for it. I can set it up.
This is what we laughingly refer to as a plan, right?
Come on! If he gives us any shit, we kill 'em all. Whattya say? Just get your butt down here. If I'm not at the shindig downstairs go to the room. It's 2203. You writin'?
2203. Got it. Stay on her.
I intend to.
No. I suppose not. I didn't know you were colorblind, Max.
Only way I could stand your ties.
I'll have that. Glock 22. Nice.
Where's Faith?
I sent her to the party. I figured I'd wait up here until you killed Tran.
What makes you think I'm gonna kill Tran?
You just did.
Jesus!
You know, statistically that's the second most common word people say right before they die. Shit being number one.
So... I killed Tran. Then you ran in, being on his payroll, and shot me.
That's pretty much the way it happened.
Wait a minute. Now I'm remembering. I killed Iris too, didn't I?
That's right. They'll find the original of her snuff clip in your apartment. The one I left for you at the club was a copy.
Was I a really busy guy? Did I do Tick too?
You bet. Did you like it?
Picture it... I feel like I gotta share this with somebody. It's too perfect.
I won't say anything.
I know. So, I'm working for this puke, right? And he says he'll pay me quite large to do the hooker. But also I gotta do his bitch girlfriend cause she knows the whole score and she's totally out of control.
Only he doesn't know about me and Faith. So I say to myself, if I turn the job down, he just gets somebody else. And I lose Faith... to coin a phrase. So to buy time, I do the skank. I still gotta do something about Tran... I figure it's him or me... but I can't cap him without a chump to take the fall. And who better than his girlfriend's loser exboyfriend... a known criminal... who has been seen hassling them in public numerous times.
And who was, regrettably, also your best fucking friend.
No plan is perfect, Lenny. Hey, cheer up. World's gonna end in ten minutes anyway.
You must be so pleased, I followed your jellybean trail right here, like a good little chump.
You got froggy on me a couple times.
So there never was a death squad.
Naawww.
Just those two loosecannon cops running around covering their butts.
Yeah. Pretty zany, huh? All this shit caused by a random traffic stop. Hey... nothing means nothing. You know that. Look around... the whole planet's in total chaos. You gotta take what you can, while you can. Cause some shitbird can come up and put a fuckin' .22 in the back a your head any second.
How did you hook up with Faith?
This dink hires me a month ago to eyeball her, right? But Faith knows me from you, right, so she comes up to me and says, 'Hey Max why you following me?' I say, 'I'll buy you a drink and explain.' And she says...
I understand. No, I'm not.
You understand? Attorney! Right? Am I right?
That's right.
No.
A virgin brain! Well we're going to start you off right. So what do you know about this? Save us some time...
Just what I've read. That the technology was developed for the Feds, to replace the body wire. And now it's gone black market. So, uh, do I get the deck from you?
I'll set you up, get you a deck at my cost... since my thing is the software.
Clips.
That's right. Clips. Look, I want you to know what we're talking about here. This isn't like TV only better. This is life. It's a piece of somebody's life. Pure and uncut, straight from the cerebral cortex. You're there. You're doing it, seeing it, hearing it... feeling it.
What kind of things exactly?
Exactly anything. Whatever you want. Whoever you want to be. Fabri, get us another round, would you.
Sounds good.
I can get you what you want. You just have to talk to me. I'm your priest, your shrink, your main connection to the switchboard of souls. I'm the Magic Man, the Santa Claus of the Subconscious. You say it, you even think it, you can have it. You want a girl, you want two girls? I don't know what your thing is or what you're curious about... you want a guy? You want to be a girl... see what that feels like? You want a nun to tie you up? It's all doable.
Talk to me about costs, here.
Listen, before we get into numbers, I want you to try a taste. I got a deck with me.
What? Right Here?
Step into my office.
Yeah, I'm interested, but can we get someplace a little less public?
You nervous? Forget it. The cops have more to worry about in this city than the squidtrade, believe me
Hey, you going to watch or you going to do?
Watch and see.
I feel like you're turning me into a VCR.
I just want to see what we're like together through your eyes.
I don't feel anything. Is it on?
Forget it's there.
Make me forget it, baby.
Cut it out, Tran.
Too bad about your guy Jeriko. Tough break.
I don't think that's a good idea, Lenny.
I just got to talk to you for one second.
Faith, call me, okay?
No, Lenny.
Hi, baby. I've missed you.
I know. Lenny, if Tran finds you talking to me he'll hurt you.
I'm already hurting.
You have to go. I mean it.
Yeah, OK, whatever you say. Just answer one question. Is anything wrong? Iris said you might be in trouble.
You talked to Iris? When?
Tonight.
Well I haven't seen her in months. Who knows what's going on in her head. You're really running out of excuses to come around, aren't you?
I know you Faith. You're afraid of something. What's going on?
Let it alone, Lenny. It'll take care of itself.
It's Tran, isn't it? This guy is poison, Faith. Listen to me. He's got you walled in on all sides. And he uses the wire too much, he gets off on tape, not on you.
That's a good one, coming from you.
Why don't you just split? You don't love him, anybody can see that. And to him you're just some kinda possession, like a Ferrari, something to show the other guys.
He has his uses too.
What? He gonna record you on his label?
Maybe.
Come on, Faith! He's just toying with you. And when he gets bored, you'll be yesterday's papers.
Look, baby, I've watched you create yourself out of nothing. You're like a goddamn cruise missile, targeted on making it. And you will.
Damn right.
It's you up on that stage, not him. You don't need him.
You have to get out of here. If Tran catches you he'll... he's acting crazy. He's doing way too much playback and he's getting completely paranoid. He's such a control freak, he's even paying Max to follow me around.
Max Pelcher? You're kidding?
Yeah, for about a month now. Lenny, just stay away from Tran, okay? And stay away from me. Stop trying to rescue me. Those days are over. I'm a big girl now. Stop trying to save me, okay, because I don't need saving... Just... give up on me.
Can't do it.
You know one of the ways movies still have Squid beat? Because they always say "The End." You always know when it's over. It's over! Now please leave. I have to go on again in a couple of minutes.
You're crazier than I thought, Lenny. Coming here... Tran's just in there.
Iris is dead. She was murdered.
Who did it?
Don't know. But this guy's real damaged goods. Iris knew someone was after her... and she said you were in danger too. Now no more games, Faith. Whatever you're hiding, whatever's going on, you have to get out of here now. Come with me right now. Don't even think about it.
Then what? Then what, Lenny?! You going to protect me? Big tough guy. You're a talker, Lenny. You don't even have a gun.
I have a gun. It's under my bed.
You don't know what you're fucking with here.
Tell me.
What's going on?
Faith, we know about Jeriko. Iris made me a copy of the tape.
Oh God, Lenny. I was trying to keep you out of this.
How did it happen? What was Iris doing riding around with Jeriko wearing a wire?
We should talk alone.
No. Mace is in this.
So finally he gives Iris some cash and tells her to check into the hotel under a wrong name till he figures out what to do.
Yeah... he figured out what to do all right.
You think Tran killed her?
The killer knew right where she was. Because he put her there.
What a nightmare.
This piece of puke hired me to kill you, baby. Do you believe that? Isn't that right, Tran? You pinhead.
Oh my God. I don't believe this is happening.
Believe it. Now bring me the trodes, baby. Come on, quick.
What're you going to do?
You can't just... kill him.
I'm not. Just a little poach job.
Jesus.
Hey, he was going to kill you. And this ratfuck paid to have Iris killed, to save his own sorry ass.
Look, baby, it's now of never... the guy is a known input junkie, so a little OD won't surprise anybody. It's the only way we can be together. You know it's true.
My God.
You were supposed to go downstairs, baby.
I know. I don't always do exactly what I'm told. So I said, 'Do you enjoy watching me?' And you said  come on Max.
I said, 'Yeah. I'd even do it for free.'
Uh huh. And I said, 'That's good, because I like the feeling of someone watching me. I acquired the taste from Lenny.'
And then she said, 'Since we're going to be spending so much time together'
'We might as well make the best of it.'
We have nothing to talk about, Lenny.
Joey, make sure Mr. Nero gets safely to his car.
Lenny the loser. Panhandler of stolen dreams.
Leave him alone, Tran.
He's no concern of mine, as long as you don't talk to him. Don't talk to anybody. You understand? Not with everything that's going on right now.
You're too goddamned paranoid.
Paranoia's only reality on a finer scale.
Look, Tran... Lenny just came by to give me some bad news. An old friend of mine has been murdered. You remember Iris?
A tragic story, no doubt. How'd you get up here?
I made my choice, Lenny.
You're going down.
You said you were going to get her out of this.
Maybe now you appreciate the danger we're in. It was touching the way you stood by me in there. "Stand by your man". I was moved. You were very good. I don't think he even understands that you did it for him.
He doesn't know what's going on. Leave him alone.
I'd love to. But he keeps showing up. And you keep talking to him. I can't have that
The only time a whore should open her mouth is when she's giving head.
Fuck you.
Maybe later.
Well, I'm certainly in the mood for a party.
Take her up to the suite. Have a glass of champagne... or six... I'll be up in a while to help you ring in the New Year.
I live for the moment.
Okay, let's get you wired up. I hope this axle grease you got in your hair doesn't screw up the squid receptors.
What's all this squid shit?
Superconducting QUantum Interference Device. SQUID. Got it? There's gonna be a test.
Hey, fuck you, man.
Easy, Eduardo, easy. Preserve a sense of humor at all times. Okay, the receptor rig... what I'm putting on your head... sends a signal to the recorder. See we call it "being wired," but there's no wire. You gotta keep the recorder close... five, six feet away max, like in your jacket pocket by the bed or wherever you're going to close escrow, know what I mean?
Yeah, right.
Some tips. Don't dart your eyes around. Don't look in the mirror or you'll ID yourself. OK? You got a half hour of tape, so give me some leadin to the main event. But don't wait too long, I don't want to be going out for popcorn. And don't act natural. Don't act at all. Just forget the thing is on. Got it?
No problem.
A star is born.
Yeah, that's right.
I saw you play, man. You were good. Like a fucking freight train I remember saying. So what happened, injuries or what?
Bullshit politics.
It's always politics. Like this thing we're in here, he's paying you to tune me up, right? But I could pay you more not to. See what I mean? I could write you a check right now
Come on, let's go, I got to get back.
Okay cash! Logical. Here's everything I have on me, what do you say? How about a Rolex?
I already got a real one. Come on, it won't be too bad. It's not personal.
Just not the eyes.
Hello...
I must get to my ship, Mr. Shermin.
We can't let you do that.
I don't want to hurt anybody. I just want to go home.
All the roads into Death Valley are blocked. We'd like to talk to you.
If I talk to you, I will miss my ship.
Hold on a minute... Let's take the chance, George.
Is there a reward in this?
Huh?... Eh... no, there isn't
Because I'm the one who called the police, you know.
Yeah, thanks. We appreciate that.
Hey, it's none of my business why you're chasing a retard... You want my opinion, it's the girl. She had to hold the guy's hand all the way to the car like he was a kid.
You saw that?
Hey... he didn't look like no big time criminal to me.
Eh... the store tells you to call when there's trouble, so they won't get sued... But that shouldn't matter if there's a reward, right?
I wouldn't think so.
That's what I thought. So remember it was me because sometimes rewards come late, you know.
We will. Something's wrong here. She's helping him now.
I told you...
Judy, that's stupid.
Well, maybe these men won't think so. We were asleep when a helicopter woke me up. It made me so nervous I went into the kitchen for something to eat. I happened to look out the window and there was Scott Haydn with this green thing draped over his arm pulling Jenny down the walk to the car.
You know that's impossible!
I know what I saw. I've seen him enough times.
Scott Haydn is dead. He died about three months ago. We went to the funeral.
Where are you going?
Las Vegas, please. I do not speak English.
Hop in.
I don't understand.
Parlez vous Francais?... Habla Ingles?... Sprechen zie deutsch?
Good job, neither do I. What do you do for a living?
I don't understand.
I'm a cook. Do you understand 'cook?'
No.
This has always been my favorite time of day.
Very beautiful country up here...
Any signs of biological contamination, excessive radiation, anything like that?
Not on the landscape. We're trying to get a tube under the faceplate for a reading on possible deadly lifeforms but it's hard going.
Can you see under the faceplate?
No.
There's a good chance you could be wrong about this thing then...
Wait'll you see it.
We had a flight of F16's play tag with the spaceship over Michigan for an hour. Then it shot straight up and disappeared.
Was there visual contact?
No, sir. Radar.
It could have been anything.
After I called in, I had a chance to sit down with the three locals. They swear there's another one that didn't make the ship... It might be alive.
People have made mistakes in these situations before.
I've been investigating sightings for seventeen years, Mr. Shermin. This one's real. We have a dead extra terrestrial in that tent and another one in the area that might be alive. We've been visited. It's finally happened and the sooner Washington accepts that and starts figuring out how we're going to deal with these beings, the better off we're going to be.
Oh, Jesus.
We better get it into the box. Come on...
There's nothing... No reports of sightings or landings or anything... in the other parts of the country or overseas... Seems like a totally isolated incident.
It was only an accident that we discovered them.
I know, but...
You married, Major?
Twentyeight years.
To the same woman?
Yes.
I tried it once... Fourteen years ago... 'I was a lousy husband and a worse father. The only thing I'm good at is this... At least until yesterday.
How would you describe the sounds we heard coming out of that thing's helmet?
It was kind of like clicking, maybe a language wasn't it?
Listen to this. A woman was kidnapped in Eau Claire this morning. When a citizen went to her rescue the kidnapper threatened him with a gun and shouted at him in a strange 'clicking gibberish'...
It was a man though... right?
The police think he was high on drugs...
Nothing up there... The grass is matted down in a few places, but that could have been anything.
It was the husband. The police finally got a hold of the witness at work and showed him a picture of the woman.
I'm telling you they're probably friendly.
Then why did they try and sneak in the back door? Tell me that. Why didn't they contact us first and say...
They're gonna let some local cop blow him away.
Save us all a lot of trouble.
Jesus Lyman, you're an ignorant fool.
Bullshit!
You have no conception of this, do you?
You jerk! You look at all the sweetness and light and goodness you think'll come out of this. You know what's gonna come out of this... The end of religion, the end of civilization, the end of the earth. We could become slaves, we could become a colony of these things. Don't you see that? Are you too stupid to see that?
Is it for real?
Get Fox.
Aghh... I'm supposed to umpire a little league game tomorrow.
I wouldn't worry about it... There might not be any little league tomorrow.
This is crazy. What were we going to do if that had been the ship? We have two thirty calibre machine guns, three M16's and some handguns.
Give it a rest, Lyman.
That's because the ones that were hurt, died. They couldn't talk to you.
Any reports about monsters, people in Halloween masks, anything like that?
Good... It looks like we might be the welcoming committee, so I think we should try and figure out what we're gonna do if we have to come face to face with this creature.
Bell wants us to get down on our knees and bow.
Did your people have any contingencies rehearsed?
I know. She bought him a ticket for Lathrop Wells and put him on the bus. He didn't stay on though and they drove off together.
Doesn't make sense.
Maybe he's turned her into one of them. They enter the crowd around the helicopter.
Tell him I'm not here.
I did.
You get that, Lyman?
We're ready.
You sure this is your car?
My grandmother's rich.
Slow down, slow down.
Geez, Mrs. Haydn, we just got going.
I told you I'm looking for someone.
In the cars, too?!
I don't know where he is.
This is going to be a real drag. I thought you wanted to go fast.
They after you?
What? No, of course not.
Would be kinda neat if they were. I think I could outrun them. Maybe get my picture in the papers.
I'm telling you, you're going to find him at the roadblock, or right after, or not at all.
If he didn't want to go through the roadblock, is there any other way to get to Vegas?
Fly.
The fivefifty. We already passed it. But it'll take him way out of his way.
Pull over. I've got to get back there.
Why wouldn't he want to go through the roadblock?... What did you guys do?... I won't tell anybody.
It's easier not to tell if you don't know.
Wait. Could I have your autograph?
Sure.
I have nothing to do. I'd like to help you.
Don't worry. I'll be all right.
Help me!!
You could have killed us both!!
He's kidnapping me!!!
Jesus Christ!! You crazy people...
Call the police!!
Hey buddy... let her go...
Help me!!!
Hey, she doesn't want to go with you. Come on.
Oh God, man... don't shoot me... My mistake... I'm sorry...
He doesn't understand... just walk away...
Please...
Don't... don't do this... please...
Please.
Why are you doing this to me? I'll give you whatever...
Please...
Which way do you want to go?
What?
What.
Ah... no...
Ah no.
Steering wheel...
What.
Steering wheel.
Steering wheel.
Gear shift.
Gear shift.
Dashboard.
Dashboard.
What?!
Eh... police.
Police...
Steering wheel... gear shift... dashboard...
Good.
Good.
Which way?
That way.
What?
Flashlight.
What?
Coupons.
What?
Pancakes.
Pancakes.
What?
X...
Money.
Money.
Michigan driver liseeens... Jennyhaydn... Money?
We're going to have to stop for gas soon.
What?
Smile.
Smile... good?
Yes.
What?!
Minneapolis.
Minneapolis... Minneapolis...
What are you doing?
Minneapolis... good.
You're full of tricks, aren't you?
No gas.
No gas.
This car runs on gas.
No gas... car dead. We need gas. I don't want to get shot for running out of gas.
Gas good?
Yes. Very good.
Go.
It's closed... closed. We need one that's open.
Closed?
You'll see.
What?
Not what. Who. What is for things. What? What? What? What? For people you use who. Who is he? Who is she? Who are you? Who am I?
Who is he? Who is she? Who are you? Who am I? Who are you?
I am Jenny Haydn.
Jennyhaydn.
Who are you?
I am...
That's a big help. Where are you from?
From?
Are you from up there? Space?
Space?
Up there... I... eh... can't explain... But that's the only place you could be from.
Gas.
Closed.
No gas.
I know.
Who?
My... husband.
I am husband?
No. I don't know what you are, but you're not Scott.
Shit.
Shit?
No, no... don't say that. Bad word.
Shit... shit... what shit?
Stop!! Enough!! Jesus! You're worse than a parrot!!
Who?
Attendant. He'll give us gas. Put the gun down. Under the seat. Under the seat...
No.
Oh God! You're going to get us both killed. Okay... in your pocket...
In your pocket, please...
You. Mouth closed.
Okay.
Satisfied? Now get out. Out.
No.
Money.
Yes.
What?
Candy.
What is... ...Coke?
A drink.
I...
You want to try it?
I want to try it.
This stuff could kill... Be my guest.
What's the matter?
Shit!
Horses.
Horses.
What?
Music.
That was a red light!! I told you you have to stop at a red light!!
It was yellow.
You didn't even see it.
I will see it next time.
You better.
Why are you going here? What is here?
My... ...car will take me... ...up there... home.
When do you have to be here?
I do not understand.
How will I do this one?...
Sun...
Yes.
Sun... day. No sun... night. You understand?
Yes. Day... night.
How many days and nights do you have to go... ...here?
Three nights... two days.
That's not much time. I'll just slow you down. I have to sleep. I'm very tired. And I have to wash and eat. You don't...
I need you.
I won't tell anybody if that's what you're worried about. I promise. You'll keep...
No.
You'll keep the car. I'll take a bus... Am I going up there with you... in your ship... up there?
No.
Then let me go. You don't need me.
No.
I feel like I'm going crazy here. You're Scott. But he's dead. I don't know what's real anymore. I can't be here with you.
Do you understand what I'm saying to you? You can keep the car. That should be enough for gas from here to there. Please let me go.
When we get here.
The closest I was able to get you was Lathrop Wells...
Is that a baby?
Yes.
A baby is a new person?
Eh... yes...
Do you have a baby?
No... The closest...
Why?
I'd love to have a baby. But I can't...
Why?
I can't... Forget the baby. Okay? The closest I was able to get you was Lathrop Wells. You'll have to hitchhike the rest of the way.
But I must go here.
I know that. But the buses don't go there.
What is hitchhike?
That's easy. I'll explain that in a minute. This is your ticket. When you get on the bus here, the driver will take this part. You will ride to Omaha. When you get to Omaha, ask the driver. 'Salt Lake City, please. I do not speak English.'
Say it.
'Salt Lake City, please. I do not speak English.'
The driver will...
But I speak English.
Will you please do it my way? You'll get into trouble if you don't. If anybody talks to you, tell them... I do not speak English.
I do not speak English.
Right. In Omaha the driver will put you on the bus for Salt Lake City and the new driver will take... ...this part. When you get to Salt Lake City, ask the driver, 'Las Vegas, please'...
'Las Vegas, please. I do not speak English.' What is hitchhike?
You want this ticket?
Yes.
Then don't be smart.
'Lathrop Wells, please. I do not speak English.'
You keep this. Now this is hitch hike... You stand on the side of the road, the highway... you understand? And you face the cars going in the direction you want to go. When you see a car or a truck coming, you stick out your thumb like this...
Your thumb tells the driver that you want a ride.
The car will stop?
Not every car, but... a car will stop... Maybe not the first car... maybe number eight, number fifteen...
When do I get to Lathrop Wells?
Tomorrow morning. Start hitchhiking right away and...
Don't worry. They're not going to hurt you. Come on. Only show this to the driver. Nobody else. And don't lose it.
Can I have the gun?
No.
Don't be afraid. Do what I told you and you'll be okay.
Yes.
Well... I'm going to go now.
Go?
Yes. I have a long ride ahead of me... Goodbye.
Goodbye.
Jennyhaydn.
Yes?
Please stay.
Goodbye.
What?
It's a kiss... Goodbye...
What happened?
I was afraid.
Why did your ship land on this planet... on Earth?
It was a mistake.
You thought we were a different planet?!
No. My ship was doing a map of all the suns and...
Stars... When a sun is far away, we call it a 'star.'
We were doing a map of the stars and all the other things up there when we saw a small ship. My... eh... we kidnapped it. On it there was a map that said how to come to Earth. This was very important. Before then, we thought we were the only people in all the stars.
You did? That's funny. So did we.
Yes?
Yes.
We told our home, and the people who tell us what to do on my planet said to come and look but not to talk, not to land, not to shoot. Just to look from up there. We came and... the driver of my ship...
The captain...
The captain wanted to land to see close and to get some things from Earth to take home. The police came and shot at us. One of the people from my ship was killed.
Oh, that's terrible. I'm sorry. Was he a good friend?
I don't understand 'friend.'
A friend is a person that is good to you... someone you like to be with... someone you like to laugh with...
He was a good friend... The captain took the ship away fast and I was not in the ship.
The police shouldn't have started shooting. But you can hardly blame them. You surprised them. They didn't know you were up there. When they saw you, they thought you were here to hurt us.
I understand.
Sounds like your captain's going to get hell when he gets back home.
What is hell?
It's bad.
He will.
What are you doing?
Are you my friend?
Yes.
I am your friend.
Nobody knows.
Why?
I don't know.
I like this music.
I've noticed... Do you understand what they're saying?
Not all... but it feels like a kiss.
Do you have music up there?
Yes.
I'd like to hear it. Can you sing something?
I do not want to.
Don't be afraid... I'd really like to hear it.
I am not a good singer.
That was beautiful.
You liked my singing?
Yes. Sing some more.
Put that back.
But I have never seen this before. I am not complete.
You shouldn't drink so much of that stuff. It's bad for you.
On the radio they say it's good.
Hurry up.
The machine gave me two. Should I put one back?
No. Get in.
You can have one.
I'm not sleepy anymore. Let's drive for a little while longer.
Are you angry at me?
No. I'm just not tired. Let's go.
I told you goodbye. Why are you here?
The police are waiting for you up ahead. There's a roadblock. You have to go back.
This car will take me to Las Vegas. I cannot go back.
The police know about Lathrop Wells. We have to go another way. Come on.
If I don't meet the ship, my people will go home without me.
Please understand. If you go this way, you'll never get to your ship. The police know about Lathrop Wells. We have to go another way. I'll get you to your ship. I promise.
I will go. But not you.
You shit! I'll decide if I go or not. Not you. I don't know what you do on your planet, but I didn't think that was very nice walking out on me like you did.
I don't want you to be hurt.
Come on.
Where are you going?
I must meet my ship.
Why can't we wait here for a ride?
I feel better if I move.
We're hundreds of miles from where you have to be.
Asshole!!
Where did you learn that?
The cook.
We're not going to get a ride tonight.
I can't stay on this planet.
No one's traveling in this weather.
You promised you would get me to my ship.
I will. I will. We still have another day.
You promised.
What do you want from me? There are no cars on this road. I didn't ask for this stupid storm.
What are you saying?
You can stop. I will go on alone.
We're too far away to walk. Don't you understand?
Why don't you send one of your radio balloons and tell your captain that you might be late?
I used the last one to jump off the cliff...
Let's find a place out of the rain. I'm sure we'll get a ride in the morning.
I can't be late. I don't know if the radio balloons work above your planet. I don't know if my words went to the ship. If I'm not there, the captain will think I'm dead and go.
We'll get a ride in the morning.
You are cold.
You're damn right I am.
I do not get cold.
What?
Nothing.
Good morning.
Horses.
You don't forget anything, do you?
No.
Hello... hello. How are you this morning?
Do they talk?!
No, they don't talk... We talk to them.
I understand.
Oh, you're pretty...
I gave you a baby last night.
They are beautiful.
Yes, they are.
You have been very good to me, Jennyhaydn. You said you wanted a baby, so I gave you one.
But...
It will be human and it will look like this. But when it comes it will know everything I know and everything you know. That is something from my planet that I want your baby to have.
I told you it's impossible for me to have a baby.
You will have this baby. If you want it. If you don't, I can stop it now.
The cowboys were right. You can make money fast gambling.
You don't make money gambling. You lose it.
May I have twentyfive cents, please?
What for?
I want to gamble.
Here are two quarters. When you lose these, you're not going to get anymore.
I understand. Thank you.
This is crazy. We don't have time for this.
I know how to gamble now.
You won ten dollars. Big deal. If we don't get a good ride before dark we could miss your ship.
I want to get money for you and the baby.
I don't need any money for the baby. I'll be fine.
Inflation, tuition, college. Children are damned expensive. I know.
The cook again?
Yes.
If I ever run into that guy, I'm going to kick his ass.
It'll tell you pretty much everything about us...
This is very interesting. We are born knowing our history. We have other books. But not a book like this.
Any words you don't know you can find in the dictionary.
I understand.
It'll give you the different countries, how they came to be, what they are now, how America came to be, the governments, the languages... everything.
Many of my people will not believe those things are possible. On my planet there is only one government, one people, one language. I will be asked a lot of questions.
What will you say about us?
I will say that we can be friends.
We can.
This is yours...
If you want to keep it, you can.
I'd like to...
Would you put some of your singing in this for the baby?
You want the baby to laugh at me.
Yes.
How long will it take you to get home?
Many, many days and nights...
I'm sure we could find a country and western station.
No, thank you.
There.
Where?
The yellow one.
Oh, wow... I'll tell you what. When the baby is born, we'll go out in my back yard and wave to you.
I will wave to you.
Where do you think you're going?
Thank you, Jennyhaydn. You are good. I must go alone now.
I said I would get you to your ship and that's where we're going to say goodbye.
Well...
I must go.
What do I do now?
You say you love me and kiss me 'goodbye.'
I love you.
I'm never going to see you again, am I?
No.
Tell the baby about me.
I will.
Goodbye.
This is Marc Shermin. Where are you, Mrs. Haydn?
I don't know. Someplace called Elmo's. Look, I just wanted to tell you that I'm all right and I'm on my way home.
You've been through quite an ordeal, Mrs. Haydn. Why don't you stay where you are and let us pick you up? We'll fly you home.
No. You'll want to ask a lot of questions I don't want to answer right now. I already have a ride.
Is the man who kidnapped you there now?
I told you. He let me go. I'm on my way home.
Get a highway patrol unit over there.
Mr... I'm sorry, what was your name again?
Marc Shermin.
Mr. Shermin, I'm hanging up now. If you want to ask me any questions, call me at home in a couple of days. I'm in the book.
Do you know what you were kidnapped by?
Mrs. Haydn...
He doesn't want to hurt anybody. Please leave him alone.
Is he on his way to Lathrop Wells?
Mrs. Haydn...
This is George Fox...
I want to speak to Marc Shermin.
You can speak to me, Mrs. Haydn. I'm in charge of this operation now.
If I don't speak to Mr. Shermin, I'm hanging up.
Okay...
I won't let anyone hurt you.
Watch it. They're coming out.
It's real, George.
There's no mistake? You're absolutely sure?
I saw it with my own eyes. We've killed an extraterrestrial and...
Is there any possibility that it's a hoax? Could you be mistaken?
None. And there's another one in the area that's alive. I don't know if it's the only one. I don't know if it was left here by accident or it's part of an inva...
Get the body out of there. Load it on the Air Force chopper and get it to Wright Patterson. They'll take it from there... We didn't expect this, Shermin.
Neither did I.
We'll need a lot of help, George. You could hide an army up here.
I'm going to the White House right now. I'll try and get you everything you need.
Wait, wait... What are my orders if we find this thing?
Contain it and get back to me.
What do you mean by 'contain?'
Then it's not an accident that they found us.
We don't think that's necessarily bad. At least it's a point of contact.
Not necessarily bad! If they knew we were here why didn't they let us know they were coming?
We'll get those answers when you find the one you're looking for.
That's not going to happen, George, unless you get us the help you promised us.
We've been back and forth on this all day and keeping in mind the panic that would occur if this got to the general public, it's been decided not to expand the search at this time.
Don't let them do it this way, George. It's too important. We can't find this thing alone.
You have to. We're trying to contact the ship. If we do, I'll let you know immediately. Good luck.
George, we've just confirmed the existence of the live extraterrestrial.
When can we expect containment?
Well, we're in pursuit of a green Mustang...
It's in a green Mustang?
Yes. It's kidnapped a woman at gunpoint and from what we can make out is forcing her to drive it somewhere.
Why did you let it get into a populated area?
It's taken on a disguise.
Clarify that.
It's made itself look like the woman's dead husband.
The extraterrestrial now looks like this.
Oh shit!!!
You sure you want this, because... that's putting an awful lot of faith in people we have no control over...
I'm afraid the situation demands that kind of risk.
I don't like it, George...
Dammit Shermin. Earlier you were asking for help. What's changed?
It's messy... the thing's got a gun... We're just asking for somebody to get killed...
We don't know what else to do. We need results.
You'll get results one way or the other, that's for sure... Okay.
I'm gonna be here if you need anything.
We're growing very concerned back here. There's no use pretending otherwise. We're rapidly approaching a 'condition red.' People are beginning to ask difficult questions.
I'll make this as simple as I can, George. They disappeared.
I don't care where you're from you just can't disappear into thin air.
George, listen to what you're saying. This thing's changed itself into a man. Disappearing may not be that big a deal.
So far you've let it cross the heart of America. For two days it has been absorbing information that is detrimental to our security. I don't see the humor in that.
Maybe... look, this is just something to think about... from what I got at the shopping center, it was more scared than anything else... I don't feel it's as big a threat as you think it is...
Is that what's affecting your performance?
I'm not being unpatriotic, and I'm doing my damndest to catch them. Bell's up on 80 and I'm down here on 70 past Grand Junction. They're heading west. If they're not flying we have a damn good chance of getting them. All I'm asking is that you people think about it.
You just do your job, Shermin. We'll make the policy.
Hello George.
Shermin...
What's all this for?
We have a new directive. I'm taking over.
We don't have to do it that way. We can catch him this time.
Washington thinks it's too late for that.
I've never been taken off an assignment in my life. Give me twenty four hours and I'll have him for you.
You're not hearing me.
You can change a directive, George. You've done it before. Listen to me. He's going somewhere in Death Valley. Lathrop Wells was never anything but a bus stop. East is the nuclear site. There are no roads in there. She was teaching him to hitchhike. I'm telling you. We block the four roads into Death Valley and we got him.
We'll do that. But how are we going to hold him? He can change himself into a man. He can disappear.
That's the chance we have to take.
No, we don't.
Then you're going to have to do it without me.
You're a career intelligence officer, Shermin. You'll be in the air with us.
You're talking about taking a life. The most unique life form on this planet. I think we're better than that.
No deal.
I'm afraid we can't let you go.
George... Do you hear me, George?
What?
I just retired.
Shermin!! Shermin!!!
We're going... Damn! We'll tell the press that there was an accident. Chemical warfare spill. That cover cannot be violated in any way. Understand me, Shermin?
Major Bell here, sir. We have to tell these people that we're friendly. That this whole thing was a mistake. Is anyone trying to contact the ship?
Shermin, I want you and Bell to start looking for the one on the ground.
Recognize this?
It's a copy of the plaque NASA sent into space on the Pioneer probes.
Houston found it in the extraterrestrial's suit.
They must have picked it up in space.
No!!! No!!!
He's got a gun!!
Where did you stop last?
What the hell do you think you're doing?
Where did you stop last?
Stay right there...
What was your last stop?
Elmo's...
Where's that?
About five miles back.
Food. Eat. I prepare food. I work as a cook. That's how I make money.
I understand.
What do you do?
I make maps.
Hey, that sounds interesting. You like it?
Eh... yes.
Make any money?
No.
You don't get rich as a cook, either, believe me. I got a girl going to college this fall. The wife had to go back to nursing to help pay for it.
Do you have children?
No.
They're damned expensive and a pain in the ass sometimes, but I wouldn't trade having them for anything.
What do you think of America?
It is beautiful.
Well, here we are... You go down that ramp there, you're sure to get a ride.
Thank you.
And don't be shy about your English. You speak better than a lot of people I know. Take care of yourself.
Gate three. It's boarding now.
Thank you.
Have a nice trip.
What can I do for you folks?
How much are your rooms?
Thirtyseven fifty for one person, fortynine fifty for two.
You have one with two beds?
Sure.
I'll take that.
Fill this out. Will this be cash or credit card?
Credit card.
I'll have to run your card off now.
We're only going to be here a few hours...
It's still the full price.
Do you have a good map of Death Valley?
We should have. Let me see.
Benny, God, take it easy...
I don't want to scare them away.
Right in line with that burning tree.
I don't see anything.
It's there. The fog's thicker now, but it's there. What do you think started those fires?
Benny, there's nothing there.
There is. They came out of the belly of the ship and then went to the first terrace and flew down into the houses.
Flew?! Oh, come on Benny...
What did I tell you?
Probably kids.
Don't you think you should call a backup?
No, we can handle this.
Mike, call for backup. Benny, you all right?
I don't think so...
Benny, this is me. I'm going to take a look.
Join us, Commanders. Now what's the disposition of the fleet?
They're holding position.
And?
They will obey, Praetor.
It's imperative we retain their allegiance or our great mission will be strangled before it can truly draw breath.
How many Warbirds will you need?
None.
Praetor. You have the whole fleet at your disposal. They supported the coup, they'll follow you.
The Scimitar will serve my needs.
But surely...
I came this far alone ...
Then I don't understand the reason for the delay!
You don't have to understand.
And bringing the Enterprise here?! What possible purpose could that serve?
I have a purpose.
Then perhaps you will enlight en us?
Silence, Romulan!
You must learn patience, Commander. Do you know where I learned it? In the dilithium mines of Remus. Spend eighteen hours every day under the ash of a Romulan guards whip and you'll soon understand patience.
Praetor.
Now go. I have some personal business.
The Enterprise is immaterial! They won't make it back to Federation space.
SURAN +++$+++
I thought we discussed patience, Commander.
And mine is wearing thin, young man! We supported you because you promised action. And yet you delay and you waste your time playing games with Picard while
Commander Suran, the games are over. In two days the Federation will be crippled beyond repair. Does that satisfy you?
For the moment.
And when I return... you and I shall have a little talk about showing proper respect!
Are we prepared?
Yes, Praetor.
This is a mistake.
He's gentler than I thought. And he has a sense of humor.
Don't forget our mission, Shinzon. We should act. Now. Time is running out.
My time. I'll spend it how I choose.
The bond is broken.
Find her again.
No  this is wasting time.
Do as I tell you!
It's accelerating. You have no more time for games.
Have the doctors prepare. I'll be on the bridge.'
How long?
A matter of hours now.
How long until we reach the Rift?
Seven minutes.
Let her pursue  drop cloak on the aft port quadrant and prepare for full emergency stop.
What?!
You heard me.
Praetor...
FULL STOP AND FIRE !
What is it?!! Focus on your job!!
She is here.
Well, that sounds relaxing too.
It is... invigorating.
So theyve got him up and running.
He's a very unusual android.
Runs in the family.
My God...
Should I raise shields?
Minimal damage to the Scimitar.
Defensive pattern Kirk Epsilon. Geordi, get those shields online.
Believe it or not, I think the cavalry has arrived.
We're being hailed.
Intruder alert!
Let's go.
Praetor, we've received the transponder signal.
On my way.
Report!
Two ships decloaking, sir! Romulan!
Target disruptors. Destroy them.
Disruptors are offline, sir.
Deploy the weapon. Kill everything on that ship. Then set a course for Earth.
What about Picard?
Our greater goal is more important, brother.
But, Praetor, you won't survive without him...
I hope you'll forgive the darkness... we're not comfortable in the light.
Praetor Shinzon?
And you're not as we imagined you.
No?
Praetor?
I've never met a human woman.
I am, Commander Riker... May I touch your hair?
Praetor, we've come to Romulus on a matter we were  assured was of great importance. If you have anything to say to us as representatives of the Federation, I suggest you do so now.
On the world I come from there's no light. No sun. Beauty isn't important. I see now there's a world elsewhere.
Praetor Shinzon. Were not here to discuss your lack of a social life.
Yes, I'm sorry, Captain. There's so much we have to talk about.
I would be interested to know what we are talking about.
Unity, Captain! Tearing down the walls between us to recognize we are one people. Federation and Romulan. Human and Vulcan and Klingon and Reman. I'm speaking of the thing that makes us the same. We want peace.
I want to end the centuries of mistrust. I want to be your ally, not your enemy. As a first step I propose we eliminate the Neutral Zone and begin a free and open exchange of goods and ideas.
And the Senate supports you?
I have dissolved the Senate.
Right now, youre thinking this all sounds too good to be true?
Yes.
And you're wondering why the Scimitar is so well armed. Is this the ship of a peacemaker? Or a predator?.
But you're also thinking the chance for peace is too promising to ignore. Above allyou're trying to decide if you can trust me.
Yes.
Then perhaps the time has come to add some illumination to our discussion. Computer, raise lighting four levels.
No one knew what to do. Finally I was taken to a doctor who had some experience with Terran illnesses and I was finally diagnosed with Shalaft's syndrome. Do you know of it, Captain?
You know I do.
We need to talk, just you and I.
Come to dinner on Romulus tomorrow. Just the two of us. Or just the one of us.
You know I need to verify this.
I know.
And when I was ready they were going to replace you with me, an exact biological duplicate. Put a Romulan agent at the heart of Starfleet to.influence your command structure. It was a bold plan.
What happened?
As happens so frequently here on Romulus, a new government came to power. They decided to abandon the plan  frankly, I think they were afraid I'd be discovered and it would lead to war. They weren't ready for that.
Romulan ale  I'm surprised. I can't stand it.
You'll acquire a taste for it.
It's not quite the face you remember.
Not quite. I envy the hair line.
A lifetime of violence will do that. My nose was broken four times. And my jaw... But so much is the same. The eyes, you recognize the eyes.
Yes. The eyes have it.
Our eyes reflect our lives, don't they? Yours are so confident.
How did you end up on Remus?
They sent me there to die. How could a mere human survive the dilithium mines? It was... I was a slave. And a monster. The only thing the Romulan guards hated more than the Remans was me. But one man took pity on me: the man who became my Viceroy. He taught me how to survive. And in that dark place, where there was nothing of myself, I found my Reman brothers. They showed me the only kindness I ever knew.
For thousands of years the Romulan Senate has met in this chamber and dictated the fate of its sisterplanet... But the time has come for us to live as equals.
You're doing this to liberate the Remans?
No race should be a slave to another.
You don't trust me.
I have no reason to.
Of course you do. If you had lived my life and experienced the suffering of my people... youd be sitting where I am now. At least I hope you would.
And if you had lived my life you would understand that there is a great respons ibility in representing the Federation. I can't let my personal feelings unduly influence my decisions.
All I have is my personal feelings. I wasn't raised with the ideals of the Federation. But I'm trying to understand them now. To live up to them. To live up to you.
I want to know where I come from. The Remans gave me a future. You can tell me about my past.
There's so much, and so much of it is dull...
Were we always explorers?
No. I was the first Picard to leave Earth. It caused quite a stir, In fact. But I had spent my whole life...
Looking up at the stars.
Yes.
And you dreamed about what was up there. About...
New worlds.
After you, Praetor.
Age before rank, Jean Luc.
So I'm not as tall as you expected?
I always hoped I would hit two meters.
With a full head of hair.
There is that.
Shinzon... I'm trying to believe you.
I know.
If there's one ideal the Federation holds most dear it's that all men, all races, can be united. From the first time the Vulcans came to Earth we've sought a future of peace. Nothing would make me more proud than to take your hand in friend ship. In time. When trust has been earned.
I'm honored to think I might someday speak with such eloquence.
In time, Jean Luc.
In time.
Hello, Jean Luc.
Why am I here?
I was lonely...
What are you doing?
I need a sample of your blood. What do your Borg friends say? Resistance is futile.
All of this so you could capture me?
Don't be so vain. After we found it, we made a few modifications. An extra memory port, a hidden transponder. Perhaps your eyes will be a bit less confident when you learn I've gained access to Starfleet's communications protocols. I now know the location of your entire fleet ... You may go.
Maybe I'll train it to do little tricks for me like your robot does. Or maybe Ill snap its ugly head off.
What's this all about?
It's about destiny, Picard. About a Reman outcast who...
You're not Reman.
And I'm not quite human. So what am I? What do you see? Do you see a life you might have led? Lost youth never to be recaptured?
I see a young man trying desperately to deny who he is.
I see an old man, set in his ways, afraid to live without a uniform to prop him up and a Starfleet regulation to tell him what to do. I see the man I will never be.
I won't defend my life to you.
My life is meaningless as long as you're alive. What am I while you exist? A shadow? An enigma?
If your issues are with me... This has nothing to do with my ship and nothing to do with the Federation.
Oh, but it does. We will no longer bow like slaves before anyone. Not the Romulans and not your mighty Federation. We're a race bred for war. For conquest.
Think about what you're doing, Shinzon. Are you ready to plunge the entire quadrant into war to satisfy your own personal demons?
It amazes me how little you know yourself.
I'm incapable of such an act, and so are you.
I think the facts speak for themselves. The same noble Picard blood runs in our veins. Had you lived my life, you'd be doing exactly as I am. Look in the mirror, and see yourself.
You can't trace my holographic emitters, Captainn. So don't bother. And you can't contact Starfleet. We're quite alone.
We are.
It's just the two of us now, Jean Luc, as it should be... Your ship and mine... You and me.
Why are you here?
To accept your surrender. I can clearly destroy you at any time. Lower your shields and allow me to transport you to my ship.
And what of the Enterprise?
I have little interest in your quaint vessel, Captain. If the Enterprise will withdraw to a distance of one hundred light years, it will not be harmed.
You know that's not possible.
I know... you'll all gladly die to save your home world.
Look at me, Shinzon! Do you feel the blood pumping inside you? Your hands, your eyes, your nature, are the same as mine. Buried deep inside you beneath the years of pain and anger is a capacity you've forgotten. It's the one way our mirror can reflect the two of us exactly because it's the very thing that truly defines us. To be human is to try to make yourself better than you are.
I know you as well as I know myself, Shinzon. There was a time you looked at the stars and dreamed of what might be.
Long ago.
Not so long.
Childish dreams, Captain. Lost in the dilithium mines of Remus. I'm what you see now.
I see more than what you are.
The man who is Jean Luc Picard and Shinzon of Remus won't exterminate the population of an entire planet! He is better than that!
He is what his life has made him!
Yes.
So if I gave you my life, what would you do with it? Would you spend the years in a blaze of hatred as you are now? Or could you change? Could you try to remember a mother's touch you never felt? A father's words you never heard? Could you do that?
I don't know.
But you want to.
That's your life... not mine.
Please.
Its too late.
You can still make a choice! Make the right one now!
I have no choices! I can't fight what I am!
I hope you're still alive, Jean Luc.
I am.
Don't you think it's time to surrender? I'll have my cloak back in a matter of minutes and your poor ship is shot to pieces. Why should the rest of your crew have to die?
Diverting to the Kolarin system takes us awfully close to the Romulan Neutral Zone.
Still well on our side...
I think it's worth a look. Don't worry, Number One, we'll get you to Betazed with time to spare.
Thank you, sir...
Where we will all honor the Betazoid traditions. No cold feet, or any other parts of our anatomy. Now, if youll excuse me. Ill be in the gym.
Captain, I hope I don't have to remind you 
I appreciate your concern, Number One, but I've been itching to try out the Argo.
Sir 
Captain's prerogative, Will. There's no foreseeable danger... and your wife would never forgive me if anything happened to you.
Captain, you have an Alpha Priority communication from Starfleet Command.
Acknowledged ... ...I'll talk to Data.
We have to assume he had Romulan collaborators.
A coup d'etat?
The Praetor's power has always been the Romulan fleet. They must be behind him.
Why don't they answer our hails?
It's an old psychological strategy, Number One. To put him in a position of dominance and make us uneasy.
It's working.
Counselor?
Captain, with all due respect to diplomatic protocols  the Federation Council's not sitting out here, we are.
Patience. Diplomacy is a very exacting occupation. We can wait.
She's not out for a pleasure cruise.
She's a predator.
Not very chatty.
Away team. Transporter room four.
He wasn't designed to live a complete, human life span.
Can anything be done for him?
Sir?
His hatred of the Federation is apparent. He would have built a weapon of that scope for one reason. He is going after Earth.
Oh boy. Destroy humanity and the Federation is crippled.
And the Romulans invade.
Strength in numbers?
We can only hope so.
Report.
He's firing through his cloak. We can't get a lock.
Counselor Troi, report to the bridge.
Unless we can disable his cloak we're just going to be firing in the dark.
Agreed.
The Titan's a fine ship, will. And she's getting a captain worthy of her.
She's the most beautiful ship Ive ever seen.
But she's not the Enterprise.
I promise you in time, she'll become your home ...If I could offer you one piece of advice?
Anything.
When your first officer insists that you can't go on away missions... Ignore him.
I intend to.
Serving with you has been an honor.
The honor was mine. Captain Riker.
I won't do it.
Wont do what, Mister Worf?
Captain. I think it is inappropriate for a Starfleet officer to appear... Naked.
Come now, a big, strapping fellow like you? What are you afraid of?
I'm picking up an unusual electromagnetic signature from the Kolarin system.
What sort of signature?
To find the head, sir?
If you don't mind.
Sir, I recommend we raise shields.
Not yet, Mister Worf.
No!
Captain!
Tactical analysis, Mister Worf.
Fiftytwo disruptor banks, twentyseven photon torpedo bays, primary and secondary phased shields.
We're being hailed.
On screen.
Sir, we've had an unauthorized access into the main computer.
Who was it?
Worf, prepare a full phaser spread, zero elevation. All banks on my mark. Scan for shield impacts and stand by photon torpedoes.
Aye, sir
Sir, we're being hailed.
On screen.
Coordinate our attack with the Valdore's tactical officer. Triangulate fire on any shield impacts.
Aye, sir.
Captain, the Hemingway has arrived to tow us to spacedock.
On my way. Please notify Commander Riker.
What's this?
Your new chair, sir.
Enterprise. We are the Reman Warbird Scimitar.
Praetor Shinzon, I'm pleased to...
I am not Shinzon. I am his Viceroy. We are sending transport coordinates.
So, human... you've met your better self!
What are you doing to Counsellor Troi?
I'm preparing her for Shinzon. To sooth him as she soothes you. To stand at his side as she does at yours.
That will never happen.
Listen to him, android. Such a small and weak creature. Yet he roars so valiantly...
It would take me but an instant to tear that valiant heart from your chest.
There'll be another after me. And another after that. You'll find we're a resilient species.
I look forward to the sport. Take him.
Admiral Janeway. Good to see you.
JANEWAY +++$+++
With or without the rest of the fleet?
A diplomatic mission. We've been invited, believe it or not. Seems there's been some kind of internal political shakeup. The new Praetor, someone called Shinzon, has requested a Federation envoy.
New Praetor?
There's more... as always. He's Reman.
Believe me, we don't under stand it either. You're the closest ship so I want you to high tail it over there and hear what he has to say. Get the lay of the land, If the Empire becomes unstable, it could mean trouble for the entire quadrant.
Understood.
JANEWAY +++$+++
Not with the Romulans.
JANEWAY +++$+++
Just lucky, Admiral.
Let's hope that luck holds. Janeway out.
It's very faint but I've isolated it to the third planet in the Kolarin system.
What do we know about the planet?
Uncharted. We'll have to get closer for a more detailed scan.
Theories?
I read six distinct positronic signatures, spread out over a few kilometers on the surface.
What do we know about the population?
Cannon fodder.
Then how did a Reman get to be Praetor? I don't get it.
It's going to take some time to find out  the data stream was rerouted through substations all over the ship.
What programs were accessed?
That's what I don't get  it's mostly basic stellar cartography: star charts; communications protocols; some uplinks from colony tracking stations. It's not even restricted material.
Set up a security program to detect any unusual data stream rerouting. If it happens again, we want to be ready.
There's something else. I was reviewing the sensor logs.
I thought Thalaron radiation was theoretical.
Which is why our initial scans didn't pick it up. But he's got it, Captain.
As I remember, Thalaron research was banned in the Federation because of its bioqenic properties.
It's called a Cascading Bio genic Pulse. The unique properties of Thalaron radiation allow the energy beam to expand almost without limits. Depending on the radiant intensity it could encompass a ship... or a planet.
And that's exactly what he's going to do.
He's getting his cloak back. We have exhausted our compliment of photon torpedoes. Phaser banks are down to four percent.
What if we target all phasers in a concentrated attack?
What's he doing?
He wants to look me in the eye.
He thinks he knows exactly what I'm going to do.
Sir?
Weve got him!
Geordi, put 211 power to the engines. Take it from life support if you have to  everything you can give me.
Aye, sir.
Deanna, on my mark.
Ready, sir!
How long until he can fire?
The targeting sequence should take about four minutes.
Prepare for a sitetosite transport.
Sir, we wont be able to bring you back. Its a one way trip. Captain, I don't know if the transporter...
That's an order, Commander.
You have the bridge, Commander. Use all available power to move away from the Scimitar. Now, Mister La Forge.
Aye, sir.
Sir, we're being hailed.
On screen.
Geordi... prepare the shuttle bay for arrivals. They don't know our procedures so just... open the doors.
I'll take care of it, sir.
Number One. You have the bridge.
Captain Picard, Commander Donatra of the Warbird Valdore. Might we be of assistance?
Your timing is impeccable, Commander.
The Empire considers this a matter of internal security. We regret you've become involved.
When this is over, I owe you a drink.
I'm afraid that drink will have to wait, Captain.
Do you have life support?
DONATRA +++$+++
Understood.
Open a channel.
This is Commander Donatra of the Valdore. We're dispatching shuttles with medical personnel and supplies.
Thank you, Commander.
I'm only half human.
Deanna Troi of Betazed. Empathic and telepathic abilities, ship's counselor. All of this I knew... But I didn't know you were so beautiful.
Imzadi. This is so good.
No!
He can never know you as I know you... He can never touch you as I touch you.
This isn't real.
Can you feel my hands... are they real? Can you feel my lips, my loins?
I'll always be with you now. Now and forever.
You sick bastard!
You're not here.
Very logical, Deanna... But your heart doesn't constrain itself to mere logic. To leave all of this behind and be with me.
No.
I can feel your desire, Deanna.
Really, Captain, it was a lovely toast.
The least I could do for you, Deanna. Besides, you know me... Im a talking head.
And you needn't worry. I'll brief your new counselor on everything she needs to know.
The hell you will. You know too much about me as it is ... Now you promised there are no speeches during the ceremony on Betazed.
May I have this dance?
With pleasure, Captain.
Counselor.
Do you have a moment, sir?
Of course, sit down.
It's about Data I've watched him with the B9 and I'm troubled. Data's desire for a "family" is very strong. I'm afraid he may be investing too much in the B9.
You're speaking of emotional investment?
The B9 is like a slow child, sir. And Data, in his own way, has assumed the position of a parent or guardian. I'm afraid he has expectations based on his own experiences. He'll be disappointed when the BI9 cannot meet those expectations.
As much as we care for him, Deanna... we have to remember that Data isn't capable of disappointment.
I don't believe that, sir. Weve shared many disappointing journeys.
I'm going to miss you.
And I you.
I would say he's been trained to resist telepathy. What I could sense of his emotions were erratic, very hard to follow.
Is he sincere about wanting peace?
I don't know.
Sir, the strongest sense I had was that he's more than urious about you. He very much wants to know you. The same way you want to know him.
How could I not?
Captain, don't assume he's anything like you are. You should resist the urge to think you know him.
I not only know him, Deanna, I am him.. and he is me!
Shinzon's Viceroy seems to have the ability to reach into my thoughts. I've become a liability... I request to be relieved of my duties.
Permission denied. If you can possibly endure any more of these assaults. I need you at my side. Now more than ever I...
How can you be certain?
I know how he thinks.
Captain  I might have a way to find them.
Counselor?
The one thing he may have forgotten in the course of battle: me.
Make it so.
But how can he? He'll kill you.
This isn't about me anymore.
It appears to be... ... an arm.
Why is it moving?
Like me, it has been designed with modular power sources.
It's you.
The resemblance is... striking.
No.
I would like to pick you up now. May I do that?
If you wouldn't mind.
Thank you.
Since positronic signatures have only been known to emanate from androids such as myself, it is logical to theorize that there is an android such as myself on Kolarus III.
How many of you did Dr. Soong make?
I thought only me, myself and Lore.
Isolated pockets of humanoids. It appears to be a prewarp civilization at an early stage of industrial development.
Captain, I don't recommend transporting, that ion storm doesn't look very neighborly. It could head this way with out much warning .
Well, he seems to have the same internal mechanics as Data but not as much positronic develop ment. The neural pathways aren't nearly as sophisticated. Id say he's a prototype. Something Dr. Soong created before Data .
Do you have a name, sir?
At present he serves no useful function. Dr. Soong created us to become active and useful members of society. I do not believe he would have wanted the B9 to live out his life in his present state.
I can't believe the Captain went along with a memory download.
Captain Picard agrees that the B9 was probably designed with the same selfactualization parameters as myself. If my memory engrams are successfully integrated into his positronic matrix, he should have all my abilities.
He'd have all your memories too. You feel comfortable with that?
I feel nothing, Geordi. It is my belief that with my memory engrams he will be able to function as a more complete individual.
An individual more like you, you mean.
Yes.
Maybe he's not supposed to be like you. Maybe he's supposed to be just like he is.
What purpose does this serve?
It seems to be a redundant memory port. Maybe it's for provisional memory storage in case his neural pathways overload?
Dr. Soong must have found it unnecessary in later versions.
It's possible the extra memory port is interfering with the engram processing. Mind if I keep him here and run some diagnostics?
No, I do not mind.
But I believe he will prove incapable of performing higher functions.
Don't give up hope, Data. I know, I know, you're not capable of hope.
I am not.
We have lost structural integrity on decks twelve through seventeen, sections four through ten.
Emergency force fields are holding.
What is our approximate distance?
GEORDI +++$+++
Why am I looking at me?
You are not looking at your self. You are looking at me.
You do not look like me.
You have a red shirt.
This is not an appropriate time for a conversation.
Why?
Because the captain has to concentrate on piloting the vehicle.
Why?
So... To happy endings.
To happy endings.
Sir. I noticed an interesting confluence of emotion at the wedding. I am familiar with the human concept of tears through laughter and its inverse, laughter through tears, but I could not help wondering about the human capacity for expressing both pleasure and sadness simultaneously.
I understand why it would seem confusing. Certain human rituals... like weddings, birthdays or funerals evoke strong and very complex emotions. These rites carry great weight with us because they denote the passage of time.
And you were particularly aware of this feeling because Commander Riker will be leaving to assume command of the Titan?
Will and Deanna joining the Titan. Dr. Crusher going to Starfleet Medical...
And this makes you "sad"?
Well. I suppose it does a bit. I'm very happy for them, of course, but I'm going to miss them. The ship will seem... incomplete without them.
That is because you have a familiarity with them. You can predict specific reactions and behavior and are comfortable in that knowledge.
Yes. And, frankly, I envy them as well. They've made important choices; they're going to have great challenges ahead of them. New worlds to conquer...
The choices I made have led me here as well. This is the only home I have ever known. I cannot foresee a reason for leaving.
You never know what's over the horizon, Data. Before too long you'll be offered a command of your own.
If I were... I believe my memory engrams would sense the absence of your specific reactions and behavior. I would "miss you."
Now, you make a toast.
To new worlds...
New worlds. Yes Data, brave new worlds...
The closest signature is two kilometers to the west... that direction, sir.
Thank you, Data. Let's see what she can do.
The final signature is approx imately 300 meters up that incline.
Mister Worf, accompany Data please.
He is very observant.
I can see that.
Data!
Sorry, sir.
Starfleet intelligence was only able to provide a partial account of his military record. We can infer he is relatively young and a capablecommander. He fought seventeen major engagements in the war. All successful. Beyond that, we know nothing.
Well... it seems we're truly sailing into the unknown. Keep at it. Anything you can give me would be appreciated. Dismissed.
Data to Captain Picard. Geordi and I have identified the source of the unauthorized computer access. And, I believe, we have also discovered an opportunity to gain a tactical advantage.
On my way.
My mission was a success, sir. I have discovered the source of the Thalaron radiation.
Good work. The download?
He believes he has our communications protocols. But they will give him inaccurate locations for all Starfleet vessels.
A bit less florid, Data.
Aye, sir... This way.
A weapon.
It would appear so.
Geordi equipped me with the prototype for the Emergency Transport Unit. I recommend you use it to return to the Enterprise.
It'll only work for one of us.
Yes, sir.
We'll find a way off together. Recommendations?
There is a shuttlebay 948 meters from our current location.
Alacrity would be appreciated, Commander.
They are trying to override the access codes. Reman is really a most complex language with pictographs representing certain verb roots and...
While I find that fascinating, Data, we really need that Goddamned door open!
What do you imagine this is?
Port thrusters, sir. Would you like me to drive?
Can you open the shuttlebay doors?
Affirmative, sir. Negative, sir. They have instigated security overrides and erected a force field around the external portals.
Well then... only one way to go.
Do you think this is a wise course of action?
We're about to find out... Power up disruptors and fire on my mark.
Ready, Captain.
Fire!
How long until we reach the fleet?
At our current velocity we will arrive at sector 3274 in approximately 40 minutes.
"For now we see but through a glass darkly..." He said he's a mirror.
Of you?
Yes.
I do not agree. Although you share the same genetic structure, the events of your life have created unique individual.
But so much is the same. On a biological level he is... and I will not accept the idea that there is nothing I can do. I have a responsibility to try to make a human connection with him.
He would deny a "human" connection is possible. He considers himself entirely Reman.
He may have already rejected my humanity, but you also have a twin
No, sir, it is not possible. The B9 is physically identical to me, although his neural pathways are not as advanced. But even if they were, he would not be me.
How can you be sure?
I aspire, sir. To be better than I am. The B9 does not. Nor does Shinzon.
We are passing through the Bassen Rift. The projections will return when we have cleared it.
It's interfering with our uplink from Starfleet cartography?
Yes, sir. The Rift effects all longrange communications.
Commander Riker, evasive maneuvers!
We are losing dorsal shields.
Full axis rotation to port! Fire all ventral phasers!
Captain, we have lost ventral shielding on deck twenty nine.
Divert power and compensate.
We are being hailed.
Deanna, stand by. Open a channel.
Sir, allow me to go. You are needed here.
Negative.
Sir.
I notice Dr. Crusher laughing along with the rest of you. As most of you know, the doctor will also soon be leaving the Enterprise, to assume command of Starfleet Medical. Again, I'm forced to ask, Beverly, have you considered what you're doing to little ole me?! I'll probably get some old battleaxe of a doctor who'll tell me to eat my vegetables and put me on report if I dont show up for my physical on time!
It'll serve you right.
Sort of like losing a son and gaining an empath, isn't it?
Please, Beverly, this is hard enough.
If you start tearing up I promise to beam you out. Level one medical emergency. Theres no crying in Starfleet.
When was he... created?
About twentyfive years ago. They probably used a hair follicle or skin cell.
I think a skin cells the more likely of the two.
It has the ability to consume organic material at the subatomic level. I can't overestimate the danger of Thalaron radiation, Jean Luc. A microscopic amount could kill every living thing on this ship in a matter of seconds.
Understood. Keep on it. I need to know what he has and how to neutralize any threat. Give me options.
Beverly, come in.
You're working late.
Remember him?
He was a bit proud as I recall.
He was a damn fool. Selfish and ambitious. Very much in need of seasoning.
He turned out all right.
I so wanted to believe Shinzon. But the Thalaron radiation can't be explained away. Whatever he's after, it's not peace.
Is he very much like you were?
Yes.
Jean Luc, Whatever you were... Right now you're the man you've made yourself. He's someone else.
I wish I could believe that, Doctor.
Aside from slightly elevated adrenalin and serotonin levels, you're completely normal.
Can you describe it, Deanna?
The more I studied his DNA the more confusing it got. Finally I could only come to one conclusion... Shinzon was created with temporal RNA sequencing. He was designed so that at a certain point his aging process could be accelerated to reach your age more quickly, so he could replace you.
But the Romulans abandoned the plan.
As a result the temporal sequencing was never activated. Remember, he was supposed to replace you at nearly your current age. He was engineered to skip thirty years of life. But since the RNA sequencing was never activated, his cellular structure has started to break down. He's dying.
Dying?
How long does he have?
I can't be sure but the rate of decay seems to be accelerating.
But we do have one advantage. He needs your blood to live. He might come after you first.
I'm counting on it... We've been ordered to head to sector 3274. Starfleet is diverting the fleet to meet us there.
To seek out new life and new civilizations. Zephyr. Cochrans own words. When Charles Darwin set out on the H.M.S. Beagle, on his journey into the unknown... he sailed without a single musket.
That was another time.
How far we've come. Let me know if you need anything.
You can' t imagine them, Jean Luc. They're kids! All with advance degrees in xenobiology and out to conquer every disease in the quadrant.
Reminds me of a young doctor I used to know...
They're running me ragged. Nothing but question day and night... I love it! Come to dinner and 1'1 tell you all about it. There's a Bajoran band at the officer's mess.
Not tonight, I have work here.
Soon then. Ill save the last dance for you.
Can you tell me how you came to be on the planet where we found you?
I was taken from my homeworld by people called the "PakJeds." They are fat. They traded me to a ship belonging to the "Bolians." The "Bolians" are blue. They put me in a seat and asked me questions. Then they were attacked by another ship...
Fuzzy face is gone.
Yes, please continue.
I was in space for a long time. Then a ship belonging to the Talosians" picked me up. They asked me where I came from. I told them people called the Pakleds" took me from my homeworld. They are fat
Do you know who I am?
You are me.
No. My name is Data... I am your brother.
Do you know where you are?
I am in a room with lights.
Can you remember our father?
No.
Do you know the name of the Captain of this vessel?
No.
Is that your final answer?
Brother. I cannot move.
No, I have only activated your cognitive and communication subroutines.
Why?
Because you are dangerous.
Why?
You have been programmed to gather information that can be used against this ship.
I do not understand.
I know.
Do you know anything about Shinzon's plans against the Federation?
No.
Do you have any knowledge of the tactical abi1ities of this ship?
No. Can I move now?
No. I must deactivate you.
For how long?
Indefinitely.
How long is that?
They're naturally wary, ma'am. We've been at war a long time.
How do both sides overcome ingrained prejudice?
I assume command of this ship as of 0130 hours. Uhura, send to Starfleet HQ. Explain precisely what has taken place, and request instructions.
Yes, sir.
Sulu's giving us his position and telling us he's standing by...
He's placing himself in a most awkward position...
An ancestor of mine maintained that if you eliminate the impossible whatever remains  however improbable  must be the truth.
What exactly does that mean?
It means that if we cannot have fired those torpedoes then someone else did.
And they'd be right. We have no evidence  just a theory that happens to fit the facts...
Even assuming you're correct, Mr. Spock, why would they fire on their own President?
I want this ship searched from bow to stern. Lieutenant Saavik, you are in charge. Start with the transporter room and work your way outwards...
I've pulled out my  uh wooden shoe and Starfleet is screaming for us to return to port.
Mr. Scott, any progress on repairing our warp drive?
You understand that we have lost all contact with Captain Kirk...?
At present, he's surrounded by a magnetic shield. If my calculations are correct, he should be deep into his escape planning by this time.
I don't think Starfleet could have envisioned our current predicament.
Maybe we should write them a letter?
Under impulse power she expends fuel like any other ship. We call it "Plasma"  I do not know the Klingon name for it, but by any name it is merely ionized gas.
Well, what about all that atmospheric equipment we're carrying to catalogue gaseous anomalies?
They might as well arrest me, too; I felt like Lieutenant Saavik.
But you didn't join a conspiracy.
At least we must keep track of where they are taken, sir. I 
I've already addressed that question, Mr. Scott. We'll e able to follow the Captain's movements.
NO WAY!
Mr. Scott, you forget yourself. Please accompany me.
It's as I said, Mr. Spock: Inventory still registers every torpedo.
Yet the data banks insist we fired: twice. One computer is lying.
A computer canna lie, sir.
I think not.
You can check the torpedoes visually, if you like 
We'll have to check every one of them, Mr. Scott.
That could take hours!
Nevertheless.
And if they're still in place?
Then someone forged a data bank entry.
They don't place the same value on life that we do, Spock  you know that... take my word: she didn't shed one bloody tear...
That's hardly conclusive, Mr. Scott, as Klingons have no tear ducts.
Twentyfour hours from now we won't have a clue where the Captain is.
I know precisely where he'll be.
They dinna fire on themselves. And there were no other ships present.
There was an enormous neutron energy surge.
Not from us!
Too far off. Very near us. Perhaps... underneath us...
If another ship had been beneath us the Klingons would've seen her!
Would they?
A Bird of Prey canna fire when she's cloaked!
This one can.
They you're talking about a dreadful new engine of destruction, Mr. Spock.
I believe I am.
 could take weeks, sir.
Thank you, Mr. Scott. We were to return to spacedock, the killers would surely manage to dispose of their incriminating footwear.
They're outside the beaming shield. Mr. Scott, start your engines.
Aye, aye, sir.
According to this we've completed our exploration of the entire sector.
Fiftyfour planets  and their gaseous atmospheric anomalies. Our sensing and analytic equipment worked well.
Then it's time we were heading home. Three years is...
I have an energy wave from 240 degrees mark six port 
Visual!
Don't tell me that was any meteor shower.
Negative. The subspace shockwave originated at bearing threetwo three, mark sevenfive, the location is... Praxis. A Klingon moon. Barren of indigenous life forms but 
Essential as a resource. Praxis is their key energy production facility. Send to Klingon High Command: "This is Excelsior, a Federation Starship traveling through Beta Quadrant. We have monitored a large explosion in your sector. Do <u>you require assistance</u>?"
I have confirmed the location, sir, but...
What is it?
... I cannot confirm the existence of Praxis.
Praxis?
What's left of it.
Sorry to wake you, sir, but Starfleet urgently requests any data we may have on the whereabouts of Enterprise.
What?
Apparently they're refusing to acknowledge signal to return to spacedock, sir.
Signal Starfleet that... we have no idea location of Enterprise.
Sir?
You having hearing problems, mister?
No, sir.
Direct hit 
Confirmed, Captain!
Trouble?
We've been ordered to 
In nineteenth century France, workers who felt their livelihood threatened by machines, flung their wooden shoes  called SABOTS  into the gears to stop them. Hence the word SABOTAGE.
We are experiencing a technical malfunction. All backup systems inoperative.
We can send a message to Starfleet Command 
I do not think so. Enterprise has disobeyed orders and harbors two escaped convicts. Admiral Donald will make certain all your shipto shore transmissions are jammed.
You have done well, Saavik. As your sponsor at the Academy I have followed your career with... satisfaction. And as a Vulcan.
Sir, I speak to you as a kindred intellect. Do you not recognize that a turning point has been reached in the affairs of the Federation?
I am not certain such speculations are included among your duties, Lieutenant.
You must have faith.
Faith...?
That the universe will unfold as it should.
But we can't allow them to be taken back to Kronos as prisoners.
What do you suggest, Lieutenant? Opening fire won't retrieve the Captain; and an armed engagement was precisely what he wished to avoid.
How did you  ?
In the meantime we must endeavor to piece together what happened here tonight. According to our data banks, this ship fired those torpedoes.
Her own father...?
Such things have happened before, sir.
Any reply from Starfleet to our dispatch, Lieutenant.
Not as yet, sir.
Curious. You haven't been assisting Commander Uhura with her radio transmissions, have you, Lt?
Commander Uhura has been experiencing technical difficulties sir.
Very well. For twentyfour hours we'll agree that this conversation did not take place.
A lie?
An omission. After that 
Any progress?
We've got a crew of three hundred turning their own quarters inside out, but the killers may be among them. Surely they've disposed of these boots by now. Wouldn't it have been logical to leave them on Gorkon's ship?
Even logic must give way to physics. Gravity hadn't been restored by the time they escaped. Without their boots they would not have stayed on the Klingon transporter pads.
Suppose when they returned they threw the boots into the garbage?
I'm having the garbage searched. If my surmise is correct these boots will cling to the killers' necks like Tiberian bats. They couldn't make their escape without them; nor can they simply throw them out a window for all to see; no  they're here. Somewhere.
A lie?
An error.
If you are logical.
I don't want to.
I believe you. Please...
But it was when you tried to persuade me the Captain was guilty that I should have understood.
You can't prove any of this...
Perhaps neither of us was hearing very well that night, Lieutenant. There were things I tried to tell you too  about having faith.
You've betrayed the Federation  all of you.
Control tower, reading, Sir.
Control, this is Enterprise requesting permission to depart.
Channel open, Captain.
This is the Starship Enterprise, Captain James Kirk commanding.
Captain 
WE SURRENDER.
This is Enterprise. We surrender. Repeat Enterprise surrenders 
It's pretty chaotic over there. There's been some weapons fire and a lot of shouting...
I'm going aboard. Spock, you have the conn.
Gorkon's own man??
Who else?
Uhura?
Nothing, Captain. If they're here, they're rigger for silent running.
Captain, we can't see her, but she gives off heat...
Not from a distance. She won't show up on ANY type of scan.
Me?
We have volunteered to rendezvous with the Klingon ship that's bringing Chancellor Gorkon here, and escort him safely through Federation space.
I have personally vouched for you in this matter, Captain.
You have personally 
WE volunteered?
There's an old Vulcan proverb: only Nixon could go to China.
How could you vouch for me? That's... ... arrogant presumption 
I was asked by my father to open neg
I know your father's the Vulcan Ambassador for heaven's sake, but you know how I feel about this: they're animals.
Jim, there is an historic opportunity here 
DON'T TRUST THEM. DON'T BELIEVE THEM 
They're dying.
LET THEM DIE.
Lieutenant, I am pleased to see you. The Lieutenant is the first Vulcan to be graduated at the top of her class as the Academy.
Congratulations, Lieutenant. That must make you very proud...
Never been this close.
The Chancellor is undoubtedly awaiting our signal.
I believe the Captain feels that Starfleet's mission has always been one of peace 
Far be it for me to dispute my first officer. Starfleet has always 
I don't believe our own conduct will distinguish us in the annals of diplomacy...
I'm going to sleep it off. Let me know if there's some other way we can screw up tonight.
What is it?
I am uncertain.
Spock, I'm really tired...
We are reading an enormous amount of neutron radiation.
Where?
Curiously it appears to emanate from us.
From Enterprise?
What the 
We've fired on the Chancellor's ship 
We HAVEN'T fired 
According to the data bank, we HAVE  twice...
I am responsible for involving you in this. I will go.
I'M going. You are going to be responsible for getting me out of this. Meantime we're not going to be the instigators of a fullscale war on the eve of universal peace.
Perhaps you're right.
Captain...
He was just about to explain the whole damn 
The Klingons have a new weapon: a Bird of Prey that can fire while cloaked. She torpedoed Gorkon's ship.
So, that's it..
The peace conference.
What peace conference?
Azetbur has agreed to meet the Federation at a undisclosed location to continue her father's work... the conspirators obviously intend to try again...
I've been dead before. Uhura, raise Excelsior. She ought to have the coordinates.
Why would they give them to us?
The Commander is an old friend of yours.
Are you dining on worms?
You were right: it was arrogant presumption that got us into this situation. You might have died.
The night is young. Anyway, it was logical. You know, you're a great one for logic. I'm a great one for rushing in where angels fear to tread. We're both extremists. Reality is probably somewhere in between us.
I was blind. I couldn't see past the death of my son. I couldn't trust.
I too was blind. I knew about HER  and I did nothing. I trusted too much.
You couldn't have known she was listening the night I dictated that entry into my log. You were proud of her achievements as a Vulcan.
I was PREJUDUCED by those achievements.
Gorkon had to die before I understood how prejudiced I was...
Can we two have grown so old and inflexible that we have outlived our usefulness? Would that constitute a joke?
Someone said the difference between comic and cosmic is the letter "S." You haven't outlived your usefulness  to me. And you are not responsible just because she is also Vulcan 
I SHOULD have been 
Not for the actions of another. No one is responsible for any actions but his own. Human beings 
But I am not human. I am only 
Spock, you want to know something?
Close enough to beam down?
Not yet... Section 4236...
Captain, perhaps we're going about this the wrong way; our job is to get to the conference; HER job will be to stop us.
Make ourselves a target?
What's she waiting for?
Probably trying to figure out why we're reversing, wondering if we detect her.
But we haven't run out of history just yet. Your father quoted Hamlet: he called the future  "the undiscovered country"...
I always assumed Hamlet meant death.
Gorkon thought the undiscovered country might mean something else  another kin of life. People can be very frightened of change. I know I was.
The only way to find out if a man's trustworthy...
... is to trust him.
This is Captain Sulu, USS Excelsior.
Sulu!
Standing by, Captain Kirk.
You understand that by even talking to us, you're violating regulations, Captain.
I'm sorry, Captain  your message is breaking up.
Bless you, Sulu. Where's the peace conference? They're going to attempt another assassination.
The Conference is at Camp Khitomer, near the Romulan border. I'm sending the exact coordinates on a coded frequency.
I'm afraid we may need more than that. There's a Bird of Prey on the lookout for us. And she can fire while she's cloaked.
Surely not.
I'm telling you. Hang on. How many of those things are there? Come on, Lieutenant, you're charged with murder...
I'm getting underway now. But you should know, I'm in alpha Quadrant. The chances of my reaching the conference in time are slim.
When does this conference start?
According to my information, today.
Thank you, Captain Sulu.
Don't mention it, Captain Kirk.
As you were. Lieutenant...?
Saavik, sir. We were told you'd need a helmsman  ... so I volunteered.
Aft thrusters 
Thank you. Lieutenant, one quarter impulse power...
Captain, may I remind you that regulations specify thrusters only while in space dock?
Aye, sir.
Plot a course for Kronos, Lieutenant.
Kronos, sir?
I'm still in the chair, Lieutenant.
Aye, sir.
Sorry 
Come on, Saavik, you COULD knock 
We're almost at the rendezvous  I thought you'd want to know...
Right 
I gather you are not enthusiastic about the assignment... I don't think many on board are.
You piloted well out of spacedock, Lieutenant 
I always wanted to try that.
Only don't try putting words in my mouth.
Uhura, hailing frequencies. Right standard rudder, bring us alongside...
Right standard rudder, Z plus five degrees...
I hope you're happy.
Captain.
Saavik, you know anything about a neutron energy surge?
Sir?
Mr. Chekov, anything unusual?
Captain, our shields  !
Uhura, signal our surrender.
Who is "US?"
I won't allow Starfleet to be dismantled over some Klingon promises.
Starfleet will be around long enough for me to convene a Court Martial on this ship, Lieutenant. Win, lose or draw it will be on your record.
Just the prototype.
You hear that?
Maybe if their particles just got a wee bit mixed...
Energize...
Stand down your weapons.
Captain, if 
Stand DOWN, Mr. Scott. All stop. That's an order.
Aye, sir.
This is incredible 
WHO ELSE...?
He wants your obedience to the Brotherhood of Aliens.
He's got it.
And your coat.
Fraid not. It wouldn't fit him, anyway.
Krandog aranty.
How did you know...?
There's a reward for your death.
We don't get many presidential assassins.
We didn't kill Gorkon.
Of course not. Anyway, somebody up there wants you out of the way.
How much time's left of your sentence?
Don't you know? Everyone on Rura Penthe is here for life.
That's not his knee. Not everybody keeps their genitals in the same place, Captain.
Anything else you want to tell me?
When whoever it is makes their move, you won't be here to ask if he's the one.
There's gotta be a way out of this place...
Listen. No one has ever escaped from Rura Penthe.
Except us.
It IS possible.
I know how to get outside the shield.
Where do we come in?
Getting outside the shield is easy. After that it's up to you to get us off the surface before we freeze. Can you?
Possibly.
I can't make it alone. You're the likeliest candidate to come to this godforsaken place in months.
Candidate for what?
I've heard of chameloids  "Shapeshifters"  I thought you were mythical.
Give a girl a chance, Captain.
An accident wasn't good enough...
Good enough for one  two would look suspicious... killed while attempting escape... now that's convincing for both.
Your friends are late...
They'll be here...
Isn't it about time you became something else?
I like it here...
What took you so long?
Kill him! He's the one!!
Not me, idiot  HIM!
This is KRONOS One. I am Chancellor Gorkon.
Chancellor. We've been ordered to escort you through Federation space to your meeting place on Earth.
Thank you, Captain.
Uh, would you and your party care to dine this evening aboard Enterprise with my officers as guests of the United Federation of Planets?
We'd be delighted to accept your gracious invitation.
We'll make arrangements to have you beamed aboard at 1930 hours.
I shall look forward to it.
Chancellor, may I present Commander Spock, whom I believe you know, Dr. Leonard McCoy, chief medical officer, Montgomery Scott, chief engineer...
Commander, face to face at last.. you have my thanks..
Your research laboratory is most impressive...
Starfleet's been charting and cataloging planetary atmospheres. All vessels are equipped with chemical analytic sensors...
This cannot be easy for you, Captain... I would feel awkward if I had to give you a tour of OUR vessel...
Thank you, Captain Kirk. The evening has been most... edifying.
We must do this again soon.
Aye, sir.
Mr. Valtane, any more data?
Captain, I'm getting a message from Klingon High Command.
Onscreen.
An INCIDENT?
Do we report this, sir?
Are you kidding? Send to Starfleet Command...
Send to commander Enterprise: "We stand ready to assist you. Captain Sulu, USS Excelsior." Attach our coordinates.
Is that wise, sir? I mean, given their situation  Aye, sir.
They're preparing to fire.
Shields up, Captain ?
You're forgetting something. the data banks say WE fired. If we did, the killers are here; if we didn't, whoever altered the data banks is here. Either way, what we're searching for is here...
What ARE we searching for, Mr. Spock?
You tell them, Lieutenant.
Klingon blood.
They must have walked through it when it was floating and tracked it back here.
This is the first evidence that corroborates our theory.
Now we go to Starfleet?
Now we expand our search to include uniforms.
ALL uniforms?
Mr. Spock, Rura Penthe's deep in Klingon territory. If we're discovered...
Quite right, Mr. Chekov. What is now required is a feat of linguistic legerdemain  and a degree of intrepidity. Before the Captain and Doctor McCoy freeze to death.
You must have cursed yourself, for having programmed our data banks, Lieutenant. Only they revealed something wrong aboard Enterprise.
She programmed the torpedo hits?
Where is Mr. Sulu?
Captain Sulu... on assignment... anyone seen Spock?
Captain, you're not going to show them the bridge??
Full diplomatic courtesy, Mr. Chekov...
Just the size of my head 
I know what you mean...
Torpedo room?
Uhura, monitor!
Captain, if they fire at us with our shields down 
Torpedo bay! DID we fire those torpedoes?
Get close enough to a man and you can kill him on "Stun" without setting off the alarm  of course you can't get rid of the body...
First rule of assassination: always kill the assassins.
From Starfleet?
Who else?
Where IS the conference?
She's only a cog in the wheel  no way she knows that.
She's here  somewhere.
But if she's cloaked...
Then all we've got is a neutron radiation surge  and by the time we're close enough to record it, we're ashes...
Shields. Battle stations.
Shields up. Battle stations.
Mr. Chekov, take us forward, thrusters only, one half impulse power...
Aye, sir; thrusters...
Mr. Chekov, slow down. Take us forward, thrusters only, one quarter impulse power.
Aye, sir; thrusters...
Course heading, Captain?
Second star to the right  and straight on till morning...
I've always wanted to meet you, Captain.
I'm not sure how to take that.
Would you care to go topside?
Very much.
"To be or not to be, that is the question" which preoccupies our people, Captain Kirk. We need BREATHING room...
I beg your pardon?
My God, what happened here?
You feign ignorance?
WHAT HAPPENED?
You crippled our gravitational field with a direst torpedo hit, and two Starfleet crewmen beamed aboard in magnetic boots and did this! WE HAVE WITNESSES!
He's a DOCTOR!
How can I trust 
Under article 184 of Interstellar Law, I place you both under arrest. You are charged with assassinating the Chancellor of the High Council.
He just tried to save him!
Take them away.
What?
Isn't it a fact that you served Romulan ale, a beverage illegal in the Federation because of its overwhelming potency?
The drink WAS served...
And you still maintain your ship did not fire on Kronos One? Would you have known if she had? Come now, Captain. The record clearly there were no other ships in the sector.
There... were no other ships in the sector.
Did you have occasion to refer to your ship's data banks during that night?
I checked the data banks, yes.
And what did they tell you?
That we fired two photon torpedoes. But 
And now we come to the architect of this tragic affair, Captain James Tiberius Kirk. I put it to you, Captain, that you were seeking revenge for the death of your son.
That isn't true...!
That, either as an instrument of Federation policy or acting on your own drunken initiative, you and your fellow conspirators crippled KRONOS One and coldbloodedly assassinated the Chancellor of the High Council. Then you and Doctor McCoy went aboard to make certain the job was complete.
Are those your words?
Yes.
Spoken by you?
Yes...
Louder, please. We cannot hear you.
Those words WERE spoken by me.
You were demoted...
Yes.
For insubordination.
I have on occasion disobeyed orders.
And you were obeying or disobeying orders the night you arranged the assassination of Chancellor Gorkon?
You deny Enterprise fired on KRONOS One?
Well, I 
You deny that your men beamed aboard KRONOS One and shot the Chancellor?
I cannot confirm or deny actions which I did not witness.
Captain Kirk, are you aware that under Federation law, the Captain of a Starship is considered responsible for the actions of his men?
I am.
So if it should prove members of your crew did in fact carry out such an assassination  ?
As Captain I am responsible for the conduct of the crew under my command.
Your honors, the State rests.
I don't believe we can get more out of the way than this.
They'll make it look like an accident...
What are you in for, if you don't mind me asking?
I don't mind. Smuggling. Guilty. I come from Arc. Smuggling is an ancient and respected trade there.
They'll respect him now...
That's a comfort...
It takes a lot of effort.
I don't wonder. Stop me if I'm wrong but do we really have any way of knowing if this is the real you?
I thought I would assume a pleasing shape. We're outside the shield. Now it's your turn, Kirk.
Are you carrying a surgeon?
We were until your torpedoes!
Then let me help!
Doctor McCoy, what is your current medical status?
Aside from a touch of arthritis, I'd say pretty good.
For 27 years I have been Ship's Surgeon and later Chief Medical Officer aboard the USS Enterprise. In three months I'm due to stand down.
Stand...?
Retire.
Ah. I believe you also consumed Romulan ale at the officers' mess on the night of question, Doctor?
Was Chancellor Gorkon alive when you first examined him?
Barely.
Have you saved patients as "barely" alive as he was?
I didn't have the knowledge of Klingon anatomy I needed.
You say you are due for retirement. May I ask: do your hands shake?
I was nervous 
You were incompetent!  whether deliberately or as a result of age combined with drink this court will determine.
I tried to save him! I was desperate to save him! He was the last best hope in the universe for real peace.
The Chancellor herself will testify that the defendant's hands shook.
Perhaps with a few small steps at a time. Like this one.
And perhaps with a large step or two. Like a peace treaty.
We're explorers not diplomats!
Starfleet's killed an awful lot of natural phenomena in the name of "exploration"...
Captain, when we get to Camp Khitomer, how will we defend ourselves? I mean, if this new Bird of Prey can fire while she is invisible...?
Now there's a poser.
This is fun...
Captain, shall we attempt to return fire?
Too bad we can't SMELL her.
In space, no one can hear you sweat.
They don't arrest people for having feelings.
If they did we'd all have to turn ourselves in. How CAN we rely on them?
Uh, Jim...
You heard the order, Lieutenant.
What the Hell's going on?
I wish I knew. Uhura?
Sweet Jesus...! He's lost a lot of whatever this stuff is...
Can you  ?
Jim, I don't even know his anatomy.
No!
Chancellor Gorkon, can you hear me? Chancellor...?
Thanks...
What's the Brotherhood of Aliens?
Figures.
We've been set up all along.
Bones, why don't you see what you can do? Let them know we're not holding a grudge.
Suppose HE'S holding a grudge?
Three months till retirement. What a way to finish.
We're not finished.
Speak for yourself. One day... one night...
 <U>Kobayashi Maru</U>...
Bones, are you afraid of the future?
That was the general idea I intended to convey.
I didn't mean this future.
Are we playing multiple choice?
Some people ARE afraid of the future; of what MIGHT happen; I was frightened, really frightened.
Specifically of...?
No more neutral zone. I was USED to hating Klingons... that's why I failed in our assignment. It never even occurred to me to take Gorkon at his word. Spock was right.
Well, don't be too hard on yourself  we all felt exactly the same 
Uh uh. Somebody felt much worse. And I'm starting to understand why.
Well, if you've got any bright ideas, now's the time to 
What is it with you, anyway?
Still think we're finished?
More than ever.
What kind of creature is this? Last night you two were spooning 
Don't remind me.
Jim, leave me  I'm finished...
No way. You see this?
It's the viridium patch Spock slapped on my back right before we went aboard Gorkon's ship.
That cunning little Vulcan...
Once we're beyond the shield they should be able to pick it up two sectors away.
If they're even looking for us...
Spock's looking for us...
ARE YOU CRAZY?
She didn't need our help getting anywhere... where did she get these convenient clothes? And don't tell me that flare is standard prison issue...
Damned clever if you ask me...
Killed trying to escape  it's a classic...
ABSOLUTELY NOT!
Come on...
Time we got underway ourselves, gentlemen. Once again, we've saved civilization as we know it.
And the good news is they're not going to prosecute.
To be 
Good luck, Captain.
I'm going too. They may need a doctor.
I believe the operation is over.
The charge is murder.
I'm going to perform surgery on a torpedo  you never know...
You may need assistance, doctor...
Fascinating...
Bet you wish you'd stood in bed...
Vulcans sleep lying down...
Spock, that was actually funny.
We DO sleep lying down.
Calm yourself, doctor, the operation is almost complete...
Thank you, nurse. Jim, she's ready! Lock and load!
Pity they're retiring us just as I was starting to understand you, Spock...
We WERE beginning to hit our stride together, doctor...
Or not to be 
That's the question 
Mr. President.
Admiral Donald...Bill...
Mr. President we cannot allow Federation citizens to be abducted.
At present I'm awaiting a full report from Enterprise. Pending that I am constrained to observe Interstellar Law.
I'd prefer not to be the President to push the button if I can avoid it.
The longer we wait, the less accessible the hostages will be, Mr. President.
I'll bear it in mind, Admiral. I think that's all.
No response. I'm not reading any Starfleet com traffic in this entire sector.
Captain, I've scanned the planet. The atmosphere contains a high concentration of methane, carbon monoxide and fluorine. The oceans have been chemically altered, as well.
Captain, they're firing at a nuclear missile silo... in central Montana.
Target...
Are we in any danger of being detected by Earth defense systems?
There were no planetary defense systems in this era. Their weapons were designed to fight each other... not extraterrestrials.
Even Data?
Data's positronic net contains classified information on the Enterprise. Command codes, security protocols...
They may be trying to send a message to the other Borg...the Borg in this time period...
What kind of message?
Worf to Bridge.
Riker here.
There's a dampening field in place on this deck. Our tricorders are useless.
Worf to Bridge. We're about to enter the Environmental Control Room.
Any sign of Data, or the Borg themselves?
Worf? Is something wrong?
Something is very wrong, Commander. We're falling back.
What the hell happened down there, Worf?
Commander... we have a problem.
Report.
We just lost main power... and we've got ClassThree alerts all over the ship. I'm not sure what's 
Someone...?
The Borg. Some of them must've beamed over before we destroyed their ship. Seal off that entire deck with emergency force fields.
Wil... Data was down there.
Mister Worf... find Data if you can, but your top priority is isolating the Borg.
All right... we've lost control of eight decks... three Cargo Bays... one Shuttlebay.
Do we have any idea how many Borg we're dealing with?
They're bypassing Engineering...
Where the hell are they going?
To do what? If they wanted a weapon, they could've taken over a phaser bank or torpedo bay...
Deflector dish... why the deflector dish...?
I remember it made me sick.
What are you suggesting?
I think Mister Worf is suggesting that we go outside for a little stroll...
I have to admit there was a moment there when 
Hold that thought.
Casualties are light, Captain. Minor buckling on the port nacelle. Nothing serious.
Incoming message from the Starship Intrepid. Admiral Hayes.
I have assigned two damage control teams to locate the source of our communication problems. So far, they've had no success.
Assign another team if you need to. I want to reestablish communication with the Captain as soon as possible.
A shipwide decompression has been initiated!
What?
What the hell is happening, Worf?
It appears that someone has taken over the Environmental Control Room.
We saw at least thirty...and there are twentytwo Enterprise crewmembers reported missing... including Commander Data.
We'll have to assume they've been assimilated into the Collective.
To control the Enterprise, they'll have to gain access to one of two locations. Main Engineering... or the Bridge.
We have to cover both possibilities. We'll take care of the Bridge. Worf, take your men and seal off Main Engineering. Turn it into a fortress  nothing gets in.
What are they doing?
They appear to be modifying the deflector dish.
They're rerouting the deflector power conduits...
Computer  thermal enhancement.
They're connecting the conduits to subspace communications...
They're converting the deflector dish into an antennae...
We have to stop them from sending that message.
Agreed. Options?
Destroy the deflector dish.
You will have to realign the targeting array of the quantum torpedo... and reprogram the warhead for the localized detonation. There's only one torpedo left...
I guess I'd better get it right the first time.
The Borg will undoubtedly attack. Set phasers to rotating modulation.
Are you alright?
Just a little queasy...
Try not to look at the stars... keep your eyes on the ship.
Right.
And Commander, whatever you do... do <U>not</U> vomit in your exosuit. It would be... unpleasant.
I'll keep that in mind.
Worf! I'm going to need at least five minutes!
Understood!
Report!
We've lost Bridge control!
Emergency override!
Nothing.
We're caught in some kind of energy wake from the vortex...
Worf... torpedo... now!
They must've done it in the past... they went back and changed history...
They did it... they assimilated Earth.
Report.
We're still in Earth orbit.
On screen.
Looks like they damaged the silo...
Life signs?
Can't tell. Longrange bio sensors are offline.
Captain?
In twentyfour hours, Zephram Cochrane is supposed to conduct the very first warp test... from a missile silo in Montana. If I'm right, the Borg were trying to change the course of human history by killing him or destroying his ship.
And if they succeed, humans won't make First Contact with the Vulcans tomorrow. As First Officer I should be the one beaming down...
Normally, I would agree. But in this case, the mission requires a certain knowledge of 21st century history. You're many things, Number One, but you're not much of an historian.
Good luck, sir.
I'll keep in contact. You have the Bridge.
Return to our own time?
Yes, sir.
Then make it so. Have you determined how to recreate the temporal vortex?
Yes, sir. But Captain... are we... all going back?
Unless you'd like to stay.
No, sir.
Port battery, ready sir!
Fire.
Time travel... they're attempting time travel... Full power, Mister Data. Worf, quantum torpedoes at my command!
Aye, sir.
Captain, there are five Borg ships closing in on our position.
Data, set a course for that vortex.
Hull integrity down to thirty percent...
Steady as she goes.
Captain, I've found the Borg Sphere. It's on the far side of the planet...firing at the surface.
Intercept course, full impulse. Weapons status?
Phasers are offline... we have two quantum torpedoes left. But the computer targeting system has been destroyed.
Go to manual.
Target locked!
Fire!
Worf, have Doctor Crusher, Mister La Forge and a security team meet me in Transporter Room Three. Civilian clothes.
Aye, sir.
Incoming transmission from Starfleet Command. Admiral Hayes.
Onscreen.
Signal the Endeavor to fall back. We'll cover them.
Aye, sir.
Incoming transmission from the Borg.
On screen.
Life signs?
Population... thirtyfive billion... All Borg.
Captain...?
We have to follow them back... repair whatever damage they've done to that timeline.
Track their weapons fire.
Western hemisphere... North American continent...
Take care of him. He's a very special man.
Yes, he is.
What are you, an idiot? Didn't you see the red light was on?
Ah... yes... but, I didn't realize that 
Thank God this plate was already fixed.
Cochrane?
Yes... and I only had enough silver halide for one shot. So you're lucky you didn't screw it up.
I'm very sorry.
Did you need something?
Yes... I wanted to ask you about some photographs I saw out at the silo. There were three of them... printed on some kind of fabric.
Bed sheets. I used my last set of bed sheets to make those prints. Not the best material, but I haven't seen a clean piece of paper in five years.
Did you take any other pictures of the rocket?
"Money." So you can get dome money...
I can try.
You'd have to try real hard. No one's used currency in over ten years. What are you, from another planet?
No... but sometimes I feel that way. What I meant was, I'd be willing to trade for the photographs.
Trade. Okay. The photographs... for a straight answer. Who are you? And how do you know Zephram?
I'm an old friend... I met him when he was doing his undergraduate work at Cornell back in 
'Fraid not.
What?
You're lying.
What makes you say that?
You're not someone who lies very easily... so it's obvious when you do... at least to me.
Are you always sucha good judge of character?
Were the two of you... involved?
No... not like you and Doctor Crusher used to be.
How did you know about that?
Ruby... I need to talk to you about those photographs. It's very important.
I'm sure it is. But it'll have to wait until tomorrow.
It can't wait until tomorrow...
Too bad. Besides, it'll give you all night to think up a new set of lies.
I'd say you already have.
Don't flatter yourself. I take pictures of a lot of junk.
Okay, let's hear it. I'm sure you have a great explanation for why those rocket photos are so important you broke into my house.
We're trying to repair Doctor Cochrane's ship. It's been damaged and 
We?
Myself... and a few other friends of Zephram's.
Friends from Cornell...
Some.
Lie. That's one. Keep going.
A key piece of the ship has been destroyed... and our only hope to reconstruct it is if one of your photographs shows us what it looked like.
All right. Truth. I believe that one. Why is it so urgent you couldn't wait until morning?
We have to launch his ship by tomorrow afternoon.
Or...?
Why are you being so difficult? All I'm asking for is to look at one of the photographs. It'll take five minutes.
And all I'm asking for is the truth. That would take five minutes. For all I know, you caused the explosions at the silo... and now you're trying to steal Zephram's ship.
I am not a thief...
You're leaving, aren't you?
I have to...
Where? And don't tell me San Francisco...
No. It's a lot further than that.
It's the future, isn't it? Just like you told Scrimm. I knew you weren't from around here.
No... I'm from France.
I don't care if you're from France or Venus... just take me with you.
That's impossible.
Why?
This may be hard for you to understand... but I'm dutybound not to interfere with you, or anyone else here... any more than is absolutely necessary.
You've been interfering with my life ever since I met you. Don't stop now.
Oh... yes... ultraviolet protection. Thank you. Mister...?
Lieutenant, actually. Lieutenant Jonathan Scrimm. I'm the head of the Resurrection Protective Force. And you are?
JeanLuc Picard.
Great name. French?
Yes.
You don't sound French.
Where in the States?
Oh... here and there. You know how it is.
Not really. I was born and raised right here. Never had much use for travel.
Where are you from most recently?
California. San Francisco.
Beautiful city. Used to be, anyway. I didn't think anyone still lived there.
There's a few of us left.
That was a pretty clever trick you did with the hospital's batteries. How'd you do it?
It wasn't a trick. I used to be an electrical engineer.
Huh.
And what were you doing out at the missile silo?
I'm an old friend of Cochrane's... I wanted to see how he was doing.
Lucky for him you came by when you did. He might be dead now.
Yes.
Maybe you can tell me what he's been doing in that silo. We heard some explosions out there this morning...
I think he was running a test on an old rocket engine... and one of the fuel cells burst.
You seem to have an answer for everything.
Something wrong with that?
Not yet.
What do you want?
The invasion plans.
Invasion.
These people you're calling "Vulcans"... who are they? Where do they come from? How many troops? What kind of weapons?
There is no invasion...
Wrong answer, Mister Picard. Try again.
From another planet. Oh, I almost forgot... they have green blood and pointed ears.
And you know all this... because <U>you're</U> a spaceman too...
I'm afraid you've caught me. I am a spaceman.
Are we on schedule? The Vulcan ship will be here in less than two hours.
It'll be tight, but we should make it.
What about our warp signature? It has to be strong enough for them to detect.
I've enhanced the plasma injectors  don't worry, they'll see it.
Well, with any luck... the Vulcans will land outside Resurrection tomorrow morning... and Earth will never be the same again.
ATR setting...
Active.
Main bus...
Ready.
Initiate preignition sequence.
Captain, I'm starting to worry about the hull integrity. We've been running the support field at full power for three hours straight. I don't know how much longer it's going to hold up.
Understood. Keep me informed.
I have the silo, sir. Bearing three one zero... distance, three hundred meters.
Let's go.
This must be it.
How serious is the damage?
I'm having trouble scanning underground. There's a lot of radiation leaking from something.
Probably from the nuclear warhead. Cochrane was planning to use it to ignite the warp drive.
I'm picking up faint life signs twenty meters below.
There should be an access hatch nearby...
Alphanumeric lock. We need a password to get in...
I have the password right here.
Blast door. It's designed to protect the control room when the missile is launched.
There should be some kind of manual release...
Picard to Enterprise. Enterprise, please respond.
It could be the radiation, Captain. Try from the surface.
This used to be the throttle valve assembly. It controls the thrust of the engines. It's been completely vaporized... and without it, there's no way to launch the ship.
Can you reconstruct the throttle valve?
Yeah... if I knew what it looked like. There's probably five hundred ways to design a valve like this...
We need to launch this ship in under eighteen hours... There must be some design schematics... blueprints...
We're tearing this place apart looking for them... but the computers are down, and the fires destroyed half the files...so far, nothing.
Maybe... Sure. Yeah. As long as I could get a clear look at the intake configuration. But so far, we haven't found any other photos.
If there are other photographs... I think I may know how to find them.
Where's you get the alloy for the throttle itself?
They used copper pipes in their plumbing... so I melted it down... and fused it with some tritanium from one of our phaser casings. It's not the strongest alloy... but it's better than all this crude aluminum and steel.
Ready to make a little history?
Always am.
Phoenix to control. Initiating five minute countdown... mark.
We can't leave her out there. When the ship launches... she'll be killed.
Tell her to go back to Resurrection.
She's a very... determined woman. Phoenix to control. Mister Lange... let her in.
Captain 
This is Picard. I've suspended the launch sequence.
Captain... we've got less than ten minutes before that Vulcan ship leaves the system. We've got to go <U>now</U>.
It'll have to wait. Come on.
No... the door's too thick.
Then we'll just have to assume it's still there...
What's still there?
Get a tricorder. You're going to have to track my exact position in that room...
Solid rocket fuel at twentyfive thousand kilograms...
Altitude fifty kilometers...
Entering the upper ionospere...
There's a red light on the second intake valve.
Ignore it. We'll be fine. Prepare for first stage shutdown and separation on my mark...
Ready to deploy the warp nacelles.
As they used to say... all systems are go.
The Vulcans should be out there right now. We need to break the warp barrier in the next five minutes if we're going to get their attention.
Bring the warp core online. I'll lay in a heading.
The nacelles are charged... nuclear warhead standing by. We're ready to ignite the warp drive.
<U>Engage.</U>
Passing onehalf light speed. The starboard nacelle's running a little hot...
I'm on it...
The inertial dampers are having trouble compensating... I don't think Cochrane built this thing for comfort.
Speed  two hundred, seventyfive thousand kilometers per second.
There's no temporal shielding in here! We're starting to pick up relativistic effects!
One minute to warp threshold...
Captain, the Enterprise!
Picard to Enterprise. Picard to Enterprise  do you read me?
Their com system must still be down.
Well, I feel a whole lot better with them out there. We may need some help.
They're getting awfully close... what the hell are they doing?
We're crossing the threshold!
"APR cell count?" What the hell are you talking about?
Doctor Crusher has been... studying some advanced medical theories.
Juice?
Power. There hasn't been a lot of wind through here for the last couple of weeks. Most of the batteries are depleted.
Where's the battery room for the hospital?
I told you, there's no 
Where?
Outside, around back. Next to the water tank.
What did you do to the batteries?
Oh... just a little tinkering. How is he?
The planet's surface is covered with Borg technology. So is the moon... and three other planets in this solar system.
But how?
Did you know her?
Not very well. We met shortly after the EnterpriseE was commissioned. I found her to be a most... promising officer.
Data... are you sure you're all right?
I am still having difficulty integrating certain emotions into my programming. Grief, loss, remorse...
We still have to make reports on ten more crewmen killed in action. Maybe you should deactivate your emotion chip until we're done.
No. Human beings do not have that luxury, and neither should I.
I will admit... there are times when I wish I had an emotion chip I could turn on and off.
But now... they are all one with the Borg.
I am unlike any lifeform you have encountered before. As an android, I am in complete control of my neural net. The information contained there cannot be forcibly removed.
You are an imperfect being... created by an imperfect being. Finding your weakness is only a matter of time.
Who are you?
I am the Borg.
That is a contradiction. The Borg act as a collective consciousness. There are no individuals.
I am the beginning... the end. I am the one who is many. I am the Borg.
Dispersive armor is holding.
Bring us about. Target Borg ship alpha four, port side battery.
The Borg ship has modified its shields, Captain. Our phasers will no longer be effective.
Ready quantum torpedo.
We are approaching the Terran System, Captain.
Go to impulse. Where's the Borg ship?
It has entered Earth orbit. Correction  it is not in orbit. It is heading directly toward the surface.
What?
I have helm control.
Where's the Sphere?
The vortex is collapsing, sir.
Contact Starfleet Command.
What year is it?
According to our astrometric readings... the year is 2063.
Mister Data, I want to know the exact date and time. Give me a damage report on that missile silo.
Today is March second, 2063. The time in Montana is oheightforty five.
You are the guiding intelligence behind the Borg...?
Intelligence... ambition... desire... I bring order to chaos...
Have you ever wondered what it's like to have flesh?
It is impossible to imagine sensations for which I have no frame of reference.
You've taken your first step toward perfection. How does it feel?
I do not know what you are referring to.
That's because you haven't been properly... stimulated yet.
Do you know what this is, Data?
It would appear that you are attempting to graft organic skin onto my endoskeletal structure.
What a cold description... for such a beautiful gift.
No. I will not betray my friends.
They're not your friends... they've held you back... kept you from your destiny...
That is not true. They have tried to help me.
Have they given you what I have given you? Did they even try?
I... do not want this...
You're becoming more human all the time, Data. Now you're learning how to lie.
I wish to... go back to the way I was.
More lies.
Have you ever know a woman? Do you know what it's like to feel her breath on your face... her skin against yours... flesh against flesh?
My creator did not intend for me to experience these things.
I'm your creator now.
I am... grateful for what you have given me. But I still do not wish to be assimilated.
A universe of sensation is waiting for you... don't you want to explore it... with me?
Yes...
Then take the final step... give me the Enterprise... and we can be together... always.
I've deactivated the sensory inputs. That flesh on your body is just meat, now.
No... no, please... you cannot...
Isn't it better like this...?
Yes... but the Enterprise... my duty...
... is to yourself. Don't make me hurt you again...
No... no, it's so... empty... please... give it back... I need it...
And I need to control this ship. Let me into your mind.
There is a perimeter alert. A ship has entered sensor range.
Vulcan?
No.
Your diagnostics are in error. I need weapons.
The problem must lie in the interface between Starfleet and Borg technology. Your console may not be configured to handle the data flow.
Can you configure it?
I believe so.
Do it.
How long has he been unconscious?
At least four hours.
Is it Japanese?
Um... yeah. Now he's going to need a respirator. Do you have one?
We have two... but we don't have the juice to run them.
His automatic reflexes are fluctuating. We've got to get him on a respirator.
Bag him.
The occipital fracture is widening... we're going to have to fuse the bones...
I'm a little worried about some of these bone fragments. If they move any closer to the brain, we could be looking at a hemorrhage.
Montana. Energize.
Montana? Well, that answers everything. Why the hell are we 
Go where? Hello? Is anyone going to tell me what we're doing here?
We're here to find Zephram Cochrane. He may be injured or dead.
Cochrane... the inventor of warp drive?
Yes...
But he's been dead for three hundred... Oh God... we've gone back in time again, haven't we?
I'm afraid so. If the Borg succeed in preventing First Contact with the Vulcans... Earth will remain in the Second Dark Age... an easy target when the Borg arrive in the 24th century.
Well, why didn't you just say so in the first place?
It's Cochrane.
I've stabilized him for now... but he's in a coma and he's going to need radiometric therapy. I want to take him to the ship.
It's not the radiation... and there's nothing wrong with the combadges... the Enterprise just isn't responding.
JeanLuc, this man needs medical attention, now.
As I recall, the town of Resurrection is about two kilometers East of here. They might have a hospital...
What are we waiting for? Let's go.
It may not be that simple. This is an extremely difficult and paranoid time in human history.
Are you saying they won't help us?
I'm saying they might shoot us on sight. You have to remember... these people have watched their entire way of life collapse around them.
There must be some good people... even in this time.
Let's hope so. Because if Cochrane dies... the future may die with him.
He's stable... for now. But it would be better if we could contact... our friends.
Yes. But until then, you'll have to make do with what you've got.
That'll be interesting.
I have to go back to the silo. Will you be all right?
I'll be fine. He's a different story.
You actually performed surgery...?
It was an experience. Metal scalpels... needle and thread...
But I had a little help. Surgical transporter. I used it to beam out most of the bone fragments from his brain.
How did Doctor Almack react to that?
He was so confused by what I was doing, I don't think he even noticed. Any word from the Enterprise?
Not yet.
You think they're still up there?
If they're not... we'd better get used to living in Montana.
That might not be so bad... at least for you.
Regardless of how I may feel about Ruby... our fates lie along different paths. Nothing can change that.
You want some advice? Don't do this again. You know exactly what I mean.
Beverly, there were many reasons why you and I...
I'd call them excuses. And the first excuse on both our lists was our "sense of duty." We convinced ourselves that it was more important than anything else. And you know what? It's not.
The new quantum torpedoes are doing the trick, JeanLuc. We've destroyed fortyseven Borg ships so far... and only lost fifteen of our own. But one of the Borg ships has broken through our defenses, and it's heading directly for Earth. Can you handle it?
Absolutely.
Good hunting. Hayes out.
Mister Data, set a pursuit course. Maximum warp.
Admiral... what's the status of the Borg fleet?
It's been destroyed. The Borg threat is over. Are you all right? The Enterprise disappeared from our sensors for a moment.
We're fine, sir. It will take some... time to explain.
I look forward to reading your report.
Initiate launch sequence.
Activating injector assembly.
Exactly as the simulations predicted...
Sir, I am not showing any change in metaphasic flux levels...
Your scanners must be malfunctioning.
All ship functions are offline.
This ship is equipped with fourteen long range transporters... are they all useless...?
They must have been locked and secured after we were beamed here.
Isolate one and reroute its command sequence through the auxiliary processor...
The Son'a discovered an Mclass planet with humanoid life six months ago. Turned out it's in us to get approval for a sociological study. The Federation Council suggested it be a joint mission...
Why was Data assigned?
"Environmental concerns", again. An android could be safely exposed to the elements during the installation of a duck blind...
I don't see anything to suggest the Son'a have any interest in sociology...
What are they interested in...?
Wine, women and song.
You should feel right at home with them.
Nomadic, collectors of precious metals, jewels...
Hmm, I should feel right at home with them...
You're in luck... it says here they've taken women from several races as indentured servants.
Why would we be involved with these people?
Good question.
You haven't done that in a long time...
What...?
What you're doing to my neck...
Was I doing something to your neck?
It says here that some form of genetic damage has apparently prevented the Son'a from procreating...
No children?
If that's true, they're a dying race.
Come in. Hi.
Got a minute? I... need a little counseling. First time for everything. Do I... lie down... or what?
Whatever makes you comfortable...
This isn't one of the usual therapeutic postures...
But it's comfortable.
Why don't you try sitting up?
Or you could try lying down.
You're in quite a mood today.
Both. I think I'm having a midlife crisis...
... I believe you...
... I'm not sleeping well...
... Doctor Crusher has something that'll take care of that...
What I need, I can't get from Doctor Crusher... Counselor, do you think it's possible for two people to go back in time to fix a mistake they've made?
On this ship, anything can happen. And usually does.
Augh.
Augh?
I never kissed you with a beard before.
All hands. Battle stations!
And have you noticed how your boobs have started to firm up?
... Population three hundred million...
Say the greeting again...
Yewcheen cheffaw... emphasis on the 'cheen' and the 'faw'...
Oh, my God, are they vegetarians? That's not in here...
Better have the chef whip up a light balsamic vinaigrette... something that goes well with chrysanthemums...
We've downloaded all the files on the duck blind mission as well as intelligence reports on the Son'a.
You have two days to become experts... Mister Worf, your job and mine will be to find a plan to safely capture Data.
Counselor?
They have an incredible clarity of perception, Captain. I've never encountered a species with such mental discipline...
Captain...
Worf, what the hell are you doing here?
I've already modified a tricorder with one of his spare actuation servos. Its operational range is only seven meters but it should shut him down...
It's good to have you back, Worf. Slow to onethird. Take us in.
Sensors are not picking up any ships coming from the surface...
Transmit a wide band covariant signal. That'll get his attention.
He might be using the planet's rings to mask his approach.
The metaphasic radiation in those rings is in a state of extreme flux. Steer clear of them, Mister Worf...
Come out, come out wherever you are...
Sir?
Hmm? Oh, it's just something my mother used to...
Sir, if we fire a tachyon burst, it may force him to reset his shield harmonics. When he does, we could beam him out...
Make it so.
Direct hit. He's resetting his shield harmonics...
Beam him out!
He's activated a transport inhibitor.
Prepare to enter the atmosphere... we'll use the ionospheric boundary to shake him...
Scanners are off line!
Evasive maneuvers... heading one fourzero mark threeone...
Do you know Gilbert and Sullivan?
No, sir. I haven't had a chance to meet all the new crew members since I've been back...
They're composers, Worf, from the nineteenth century. Data was rehearsing a part in H.M.S. Pinafore before he left... "A British tar is a soaring soul, As free as a mountain bird, His energetic first should be ready to resist A dictatorial word..."
Sir, inertial coupling is exceeding tolerance... if we don't release him, he may destroy both vessels...
I'm not letting go of him.
The damping sequencer was damaged by phaser fire!
Transferring controls to manual.
Did any of the hostages mention a cloaked ship during their debriefings?
No, sir...
Debrief them again. Have you been in a fight, Commander?
No, sir. It is a gorch.
Gorch?
Doctor Crusher asked to talk to you when you returned...
Picard to Crusher...
Should I distribute phasers to the Ba'ku, sir...?
No. We'll be responsible for that, Mister Worf.
You need a haircut, Commander.
Accelerated hair growth is often experienced by Klingons during Jak'tahla...
The Ba'ku could use some rest, sir. According to the geoscan, this may be the safest area for the next few kilometers...
Very well. We'll take an hour. Break out some rations...
Isolinear tags. Their transporters can lock onto them.
We have to find shelter...
All injector subsystems are confirmed offline.
Decloak the holoship and engage a tractor beam, Mister Worf.
One. It's Ru'afo.
Can you beam him off?
Negative. He's established a security field around the control room...
Is there any other way to disable the injector?
Bridge to Captain Picard. We are approaching sector fourfourone.
Slow to impulse. We're on our way.
I... I must have slept through my alarm. I'm on my way...
We'll skip the court martial this time... Picard out.
Worf to Picard...
Yes... yes, I... can hear you...
We're trying to get to you, sir...
Worf, you must hurry...
We're coming as fast as we can... we can't risk using phasers...
I understand. Tell Doctor Crusher to have a hypospray of lectrazine ready...
My name is Sojef, Captain.
JeanLuc Picard... my officers Doctor Crusher and Counselor Troi.
Would you like something to eat?
No, we're here to... rescue them.
As you wish. But I would ask you to disarm yourselves. This village is a sanctuary of life.
We came here from a solar system on the verge of self annihilation... where technology had created weapons that threatened to destroy all life. A small group of us set off to find a new home... a home that would be isolated from the threats of other worlds. That was three hundred and nine years ago.
You've not aged a day since then?
Actually, I was a good deal older when we arrived... in terms of my physical condition.
I wish there was a way to bring them back home.
Ask them.
I'm afraid there's too much bitterness... on both sides.
They need us to mediate some territorial dispute...
We can't delay the archaeological expedition to Hanoran Two. It would put us into the middle of monsoon season...
The Diplomatic Corps is busy with Dominion negotiations.
... so they need us to put out one more brush fire. Anyone remember when we used to be explorers?
'Yewcheen cheffaw.'
Deck ten.
Who is it?
Commander Riker...
... and gorgonzolla cheese.
We won't be able to go any faster than onethird impulse in that muck...
Nothing dangerous turned up in the astrometric survey...
So where are the 'environmental concerns' the Admiral was talking about?
The only unusual readings were low levels of metaphasic radiation from interstellar dust across the region...
Admiral Dougherty wants to know why we haven't left yet...
We're not going anywhere.
Deck five.
You Klingons never do anything small, do you...
Prepare the ship for departure at ohsevenhundred hours.
Aye, sir.
You must be planning on doing some hunting.
Go back to your quarters That's an order.
There's a short letter I left you all, just some... sentimental nonsense... the computer will bring it to your attention at oh fourhundred... I'd just as soon you delete it...
Fat chance. I'll post it on every monitor on the ship...
The Council has ordered a halt to the Ba'ku relocation while they conduct a toplevel review.
Top level review, my ass. There'll be no coverup of this. Not after I get...
Commander, I'm showing two Son'a ships on an intercept course.
How long 'til they reach us?
Eighteen minutes...
What's inside that nebula cluster?
Cometary debris, pockets of unstable metreon gas... we don't want to go in there, sir...
Yes, we do. You're relieved, Ensign. Take over at Ops.
I thought subspace weapons were banned by the Khitomer Accord...
Remind me to lodge a protest...
We're still thirtysix minutes from transmission range, sir.
We're through running from these bastards.
They're powering their forward weapons array.
Blow out the ramscoop. Stand by full thrusters.
I don't think they believe us.
Why not?
Sir, they've detonated an isolytic burst... a subspace tear is forming...
On screen.
The tear is closing on us... impact in fifteen seconds...
Eject the core.
The purpose being I intend to shove it down the Son'a's throat.
Commander, if one of their weapons hits that gas...
It's our only way out of here, Mister Nara.
We're pulling it like a zipper across space...
Options?
Eject the core.
Aye, sir. Highly volatile...I recommend we keep our distance...
Negative. I want to use the ramscoop to collect as much of it as we can...
The purpose being...?
I wouldn't be surprised if history remembers this as the Riker Maneuver...
If it works you mean.
Even if it doesn't, they'll be teaching kids as the Academy not to do this for years to come.
A photon torpedo. Isn't that the universal greeting when communications are down?
I think it's the universal greeting when you don't like someone.
Full impulse.
The manifold can't handle full impulse in the Patch, Commander.
If we don't outrun them, the manifolds are going to be the only thing left of this ship.
I'll be in Engineering.
Will that stop the tear?
You got me, Commander.
That's your expert opinion?
Detonating the warp core might neutralize the cascade... but then again it might not. Subspace weapons are unpredictable. That's why they were banned.
I want our guests to depart as quickly a etiquette allows. I'll ask Worf to delay his return to DS9 so he can join us. We're going to stop by sector fourfour one on our way to the Goren system.
They... are in opposite directions, sir...
Are they...?
We're about to lose communications with Starfleet, Captain.
Do you have everything you need from command?
The torque sensors are out of alignment... by twelve microns... you could hear that?
When I was an ensign, I could detect a threemicron mis alignment...
I took these out of Data's neural net... they contain memory engrams...
Do you know how they were damaged?
By a Son'a weapon. There's no doubt about it, sir. That's what made Data malfunction.
The Son'a reports claim they didn't fire until after he malfunctioned.
I don't believe it happened that way.
Why would they fire at him without provocation?
All I know is that he was functioning normally until he was shot. Then, his failsafe system was activated...
Failsafe?
His ethical and moral subroutines took over all of his basic functions...
So, you're saying he still knew the difference between right and wrong.
In a sense, that's all he knew. The system is designed to protect him against anyone who might try to take advantage of his memory loss.
And yet he attacked us. And told the Ba'ku we were a threat...
Implants bothering you?
It's nothing. I'm just tired.
Funniest thing, Captain. There wasn't anything wrong with my implants. There was something right with my eyes. When Doctor Crusher removed the ocular connections, she found the cells around my optic nerves...
... had regenerated.
It may not last after we leave. If not, I just wanted, before we go... I've never actually seen a sunrise.
Gallatin! So the righteous Starfleet Captain finally released you. Did you encounter any problems on the surface?
No, sir. But it wasn't easy... being among them...
I'm sure. Just don't forget what they did to us. We'll have them rounded up in a day or two... we needn't bother with the Federation holoship any more. Just get the holding cells ready.
The injector performs perfectly in every simulation...
Sir, as the Enterprise left orbit, one of their support craft went down to the surface. It appeared to be the Captain's Yacht. Five persons on board.
We're not waiting until morning... take the shuttles and get everyone off the surface tonight.
They're following the kelbonite deposits... using the interference to block our transporters...
Recommendations?
There is an alternative to an all out assault. Isolinear tags would allow our transporters to lock on to them.
We'd have to tag every one of them... that would take time... and we don't have it. The Enterprise is only nineteen hours from communications range with the Federation...
Admiral Dougherty will not be joining us for diner. Deploy the collector. Do you have a problem with those orders?
May I talk to you alone?
Deploy the collector.
Moving them is one thing. Killing them all...
No one hated them more than you, Gal'na. We've come a long way together. This is the moment we've planned for so many years...
Separate the Starfleet personnel and secure them in the aft cargo hold... see that Picard joins them...
The shields in that section won't protect them against the thermolytic reaction...
Thankyou for reminding me.
A coward... without the moral courage to stop an unspeakable atrocity. You offend me.
Is this how a Federation officer begs for his life?
I'm not begging for my life. I'm begging for yours. There is still a way home, Gal'na.
What you're asking me to do... is impossible... the crew is loyal to Ru'afo...
Do you know how to disable the injector?
But I would need at least three minutes on the bridge.
If we could lure him away from the bridge...
It doesn't matter where he is. As soon as he realizes something is happening, he'll override my commands with one word at his com link...
What if he doesn't realize something's happening... Can you get me to a transmitter? I have to speak with Worf and Data on the surface... we'll need their help...
The countdown control has been transferred to the collector...I can't override...
Scan for lifesigns.
You have no idea what precipitated his behavior?
... And now he's holding our people hostage down there...
The Enterprise can be at your position in two days, Admiral...
That's probably not a good idea. Your ship hasn't been fitted for this region; there are environmental concerns...
What kind of concerns?
We haven't fully identified the anomalies yet. They're calling this whole area The Briar Patch... it took us a day to reach a location where we could get a signal out to you. Just get me Data's schematics. I'll keep you informed. Dougherty out.
Captain, I wasn't expecting you.
This was too important for the Enterprise to be on the sidelines, Admiral...
I wish I had better news. Commander Data attacked us in the mission scout ship yesterday. Ru'afo and I have decided to send in an assault team...
Sir, Commander Worf and I have been working on several tactical plans to safely...
All right. You have twelve hours, Captain. Then I want you out of The Briar Patch. In the meantime, we'll be heading out to the perimeter to call for Son'a reinforcements in case you fail.
Understood.
Good luck. Dougherty out.
... and because they have warp capabilities, the consequences to their society are minimal...
You've done a terrific job, Jean Luc. Now, pack your bags and get the hell out of there. How's Data?
In stasis. La Forge is completing the diagnostic.
I'll need all your paperwork tomorrow. We're heading back your way. Set a course to rendezvous with us so you can transfer the crew and equipment on your way out.
You're not finished here?
Just a few loose ends to tie up. Dougherty out.
You're looking well, JeanLuc. Rested.
Your "Briar Patch" turned out to be more hospitable than I expected.
That's why we put chromodynamic shields in place  so our people wouldn't feel the effects from the metaphasic radiation...
... or understand that they were participating in the outright theft of a world. I won't let you move them, Admiral. I'll go to the Federation Council...
I'm acting on orders form the Federation Council.
How can there be an order to abandon the Prime Directive...?
The Prime Directive doesn't apply. These people are not indigenous to this world. They were never meant to be immortal. We'll simply be restoring their natural evolution.
Who are we to decide the next course of evolution for these people?
There are six hundred people down there. We'll be able to use the regenerative properties of this radiation to help billions. The Son'a have developed a procedure to collect the metaphasic particles form the planets rings...
A planet in Federation space...
Right. We have the planet and they have the technology  a technology we can't duplicate. You know what that makes us? Their partners.
Our partners are nothing more than petty thugs.
On Earth, petroleum once turned petty thugs into world leaders. Warp drive transformed a bunch of Romulan thugs into an empire. We can handle the Son'a, I'm not worried about that...
Someone probably said the same thing about the Romulans a century ago.
With metaphasics, lifespans will be doubled... an entire new medical science will evolve... I understand your Chief Engineer has the use of his eyes for the first time in his life... would you take his sight away from him?
There are metaphasic particles all over The Briar Patch. Why must this planet be...
The concentration in the rings is what makes the whole damned thing work. Don't ask me to explain it. I only know they inject something into the rings that starts a thermolytic reaction. After it's over, the planet will be unlivable for generations.
Delay the procedure. Let my people look at the technology.
Our best scientific minds already have. We can't find any other way to do this.
Then the Son'a can establish a separate colony on this planet until we do...
It would take ten years of normal exposure to begin to reverse their condition. Some of them won't survive that long. Besides, they don't want to live in the middle of The Briar Patch... who would?
The Ba'ku.
We are betraying the principles upon which the Federation was founded... this is an attack on the very soul of the Federation. This will destroy the Ba'ku. Just as cultures have been destroyed in every other forced relocation throughout history.
We are only moving six hundred people, JeanLuc.
How many people would it take... before it becomes wrong? A thousand? Fifty thousand. A million?
Order them to surrender, and I promise you won't be court martialed.
If a courtmartial is the only way to tell the people of the Federation what happened here, then I welcome it.
I wonder... which one of us will be facing that courtmartial...
There's nothing further to be gained from this...
Your Federation procedures have made this mission ten times as difficult as it needed to be...
Our procedures were in place to protect the planet's population from unnecessary risk...
Planet's population. Six hundred people. You want to avoid unnecessary risks? Next time leave your android home.
Take us into a high orbit. Lie down, Admiral. The girls will take twenty years off your face...
Another time.
Your selfrestraint puzzles me, Admiral. You continue to deny yourself every benefit this mission has to offer...
I prefer to wait until we can share the benefits with all the people of the Federation...
Your android has turned dangerously violent, Captain... Considerable damage was done to my ship. He must be destroyed.
I know what Data means to Starfleet, JeanLuc... but our crew is at the mercy of those people on the planet...
It isn't safe for you to remain in this area.
He's right. Our shields have been upgraded to protect against the environmental anomalies...
Take me down. Let me talk to Picard.
Talk... we should send down an assault team and take them by force.
That is not an acceptable option. If people get hurt, all the support we have in the Federation...
Federation support, Federation procedures, Federation rules... look in the mirror, Admiral... the Federation is old... in the last twenty four months, it's been challenged by every major power in the quadrant  the Borg, the Cardassians, the Dominion... they all smell the scent of death on the Federation. That's why you've embraced our offer... because it will give your dear Federation new life. Well, how badly do you want it, Admiral? Because there are hard choices to be made now. If the Enterprise gets through with news about their brave Captain's valiant struggle on behalf of the defenseless Ba'ku, your Federation politicians will waver, your Federation opinion polls will open a public debate, your Federation allies will want their say... need I go on?
I'll order Riker to turn around.
Picard's first officer. Do you really believe he'll listen?
You're not going to launch anything until...
In six hours, every living thing in this system will be dead or dying.
We're taking this ship out of here... this mission is over...
It is not over.
It is over.
I do not take orders from you.
If you begin the procedure while the planet is still populated, the Federation will pursue you until...
Hello, Data...
Captain, Geordi...?
You're aboard the Enterprise.
Yes... that looks like them.
What's the last thing you remember, Data...
'his nose should pant and his lip should curl...'
From the mission...
I was in an isolation suit collecting physiometric data on Ba'ku children. My last memory is going into the hills, following a boy...
I believe the boy is... afraid... of me.
It's nothing personal data. You have to remember these people have rejected technology. And you...
... I am the personification of everything they have rejected.
Until this week, that young man probably never saw a machine, let alone one that walks and talks...
And I do not believe I made a very good first impression.
Tricorder functions are limited due to heavy deposits of kelbonite in these hills...
How about a passive radiation scan?
A ship,
It is clearly Federation in origin, Captain.
'Just a few loose ends to tie up.'
Incomplete, I might add.
What you're seeing is a computer driven image created by photons and forcefields...
... it is conceivable I was shot to protect the secret of its existence.
What possible purpose could a duplicate village have except... to deceive the Ba'ku...
Why would the Federation or the Son'a wish to move the Ba'ku?
I don't know.
Captain, I've activated transport inhibitors around the village...
Good. Let's begin to move these people out...
How many?
Another fortythree people reported taken, sir...
I'm showing fresh air behind this calcite formation, Captain...
Will the structure hold if we blast through?
I believe it is safe, sir.
You either need a new uniform or a new neck.
'Yewcheen cheffaw'... My collar size is exactly the same as it was at the Academy.
Sure it is. And your hair is still chestnut brown.
Very funny...
Your Captain used to cut quite a rug...
Prepare to transport the 'hostages' to the ship...
They should be quarantined before joining the ship's population.
Will he live?
Yes. But look at this medscan...
She's stabilizing.
Is it safe to move her?
Safer than leaving her here.
Captain, the Son'a hostages declined to be examined. I had them confined to quarters.
And our people?
They all have slightly elevated levels of endorphin production... probably the result of the environmental anomalies here...
Are they in any danger?
Not at all. They're fine... in fact, they're better than fine. Increased metabolism, high energy, improved muscle tone. We should all be so lucky.
Very good, Doctor. Picard out.
Can he breathe under water?
Data doesn't breathe.
Won't he rust?
No.
To many offlanders, what you have here would be more valuable than goldpressed latinum. And I'm afraid it's the reason that someone is trying to take this world away from you.
The artificial lifeform was right?
If not for Data, you'd probably have been relocated by now.
There is no need for concern. I am operating within normal parameters now.
You're what?
I am better.
My father told me I shouldn't talk to you.
I understand.
I don't.
Not everyone here agrees with him. I mean, you know, about machines. There was even a big fight about it once. Do you like being a machine?
I aspire to be more than I am.
I know why. So people like us won't be afraid of you any more.
Perhaps, that is true.
Don't you ever get tired?
My power cells continually re charge themselves.
I can't imagine what it would be like to be a machine.
Perhaps it would surprise you to know that I have often tried to imagine what it would be like to be a child...
Really?
Really.
For one thing, your legs are shorter than everyone else's.
But they are in a constant state of growth. Do you find it difficult to adapt? A child's specifications are never the same from one moment to the next. I am surprised that you do not... trip over your own feet.
Sometimes I do.
My legs are eightysevenpoint two centimeters. They were eightysevenpointtwo centimeters the day I was created. They will be eighty sevenpointtwo centimeters the day I go off line. My operation depends on specifications that do not change. I... cannot imagine... the experience of growing up or even tripping over my own feet...
But you've never had adults telling you what to do all the time... or bedtimes... or having to eat food you don't like...
I would gladly accept the requirement of a bedtime in exchange for knowing what it is like to be a child.
Do machines ever play?
I play the violin... and my chess routines are quite advanced...
No, I mean...
Chase me!
For what purpose?
Because you're it. And if you tag me... then I'm it.
But I can run much faster than you... I am capable of exceeding fortyseven meters per second...
Data... haven't you ever just played... for fun?
Androids... don't have...fun.
Why not...?
No one's ever asked me that before.
If you want to know 'what it's like to be a child', you need to learn how to play...
Anij!
Tournel will take you the rest of the way...
No... I want to stay with you...
It is safer there. I will join you shortly.
I have to go home now.
Bye.
We were under the impression they were being held against their will.
It's not our custom to have guests here at all, let alone hold anyone against their will.
My people have a strict policy of noninterference with other cultures. In fact, it's our Prime Directive.
Your directive apparently doesn't include spying on other cultures.
If I were in your shoes, I'd feel the same way after what happened. The 'artificial lifeform' is a member of my crew. Apparently, he became... ill...
You have warp capability?
Capability, yes. But where can warp drive take us, except away from here...?
I understand how you feel. We just want to retrace Data's movements that day...
Why?
I don't like to leave questions unanswered.
Then you must spend your life answering questions.
I know what a hologram is, Captain. The question is  why would someone want to create one of our village?
Data, if you were following the boy and discovered this ship...
Deceive us?
To move you off this planet. You go to sleep one night in your village... wake up the next morning in this flying holodeck transported en masse. A week later, maybe a month, you've been relocated on a similar planet without ever realizing it.
Don't panic...
I've been shot at... thrown into the lake out of an invisible ship that's come to abduct us all... what's there to panic about?
There's an unusual metaphasic radiation coming from the planet's rings. It continuously regenerates the cells in our bodies. You must have noticed the effects by now.
We've... just begun to. I suppose you're seventyfive.
Clearly, the architects of this conspiracy have tried to keep it a secret. Not just from you, but from my people as well. I don't intend to let them.
We've always known that to survive, we had to remain apart. It hasn't been easy. Many of the young people here want to know more about the offland... they're attracted to stories of a faster pace of life...
Most of my people who live that faster pace would sell their souls to slow it down.
But not you.
There are days.
You don't live up to your reputation as an offlander, Picard.
In defense of offlanders, there are many more like me...
... who wouldn't be tempted by the promise of perpetual youth? I don't think so.
You give me more credit than I deserve. Of course, I'm tempted. Who wouldn't be? But some of the blackest marks in the history of my world have involved the forced relocation of a small group of people to satisfy the demands of a larger one. I'd like to believe we learn from our mistakes. Obviously, some of us haven't.
The craftsmanship is extraordinary.
This is a school... that's a student's work. She'll be ready to become an apprentice soon. Then, in thirty or forty years, she'll take her place among the artisans...
An apprentice for thirty years. We've noticed your people's mental discipline. Did that develop here?
More questions. Always the explorer. If you stay long enough, that'll change.
Will it?
You'll stop reviewing what happened yesterday... stop planning for tomorrow... until you find... Let me ask you a question  have you ever experienced a perfect moment in time?
A perfect moment?
When time seemed to stop... and you could almost live in that moment...
Seeing my home planet from space for the first time...
Yes. Exactly. Nothing more complicated than perception. You explore the universe. We've discovered a single moment in time can be a universe in itself... full of powerful forces... most people aren't aware enough of the now... to ever notice them...
I wish I could spare a few centuries to learn.
It took us centuries to learn that it doesn't have to take centuries to learn.
There's one thing I don't understand. In three hundred years...you never learned to swim?
I just... haven't gotten around to it yet.
I wonder if you're aware of the trust you endanger, JeanLuc Picard. In my experience, it's unusual for...
... an offlander?
For someone so young.
When we're forced away by the terrain, we'll use transport inhibitors to compensate. The mountains have the highest concentrations. Once we're there, transport will be virtually impossible...
There are caves in those mountains.
We can hold them off a long time... once we get there... But they will not make it easy to get there...
Jak'tahla?
Roughly translated: puberty... although for a Klingon that's not doing it justice... Any severe mood swings, unusual aggressive tendencies  be sure to let me know right away...
Right beyond that ridge is where the caves begin... we can hide for days...
By now the Son'a have scanned the area and know that just as well as we do.
How is it a woman like you never married? And don't tell me you "just haven't gotten around to it yet"...
What's the rush?
I should warn you... I've always been attracted to older women...
There's a cavern at the base of the next hill...
This way!
You're Ro'tin, aren't you...? There's something in the voice. Would you be his friend Gal'na? I helped your mother bathe you when you were a child. She still speaks of you.
You've brought the Federation into the middle of a blood feud, Admiral. The children have returned to expel their elders... just as they were once expelled. Except Ru'afo's need for revenge has now escalated to parricide.
Mother and son. You arranged this...?
I thought it might begin the healing process.
But I have three hundred and eighteen days of vacation time coming. I plan on using them.
I'll be here.
Do you really think your mighty Federation would be interested in protecting six hundred people?
The "mighty" Federation could learn a few things from this village...
Ojichan? Akira ojichaan dewa naino? Koko de nani shiteru no?
Gomen nasarei. Hito chigai de gozaranuka na. I'm sorry, my son. You have mis taken me for someone else.
Ah, chigaau hito da. Hanashi kata ga okashii. Yes, this must be true. You talk funny.
Chotto omachi nasarei. Namae wa nanto moosareruka na. Wait my son. What is your name?
Sulu Hikaru.
Ah, sorenara mazu mazu nagaiki wo sareru to mira. Ah... Then I am sure that you will have a long and happy life.
Arigato. Sayonara. Thank you, honorable sir.
Father...?
I will be returning to Vulcan within the hour... I wanted to take my leave of you.
It is kind of you to make this effort.
It is not an effort. You are my son. Besides; I am most impressed with your performance in this  crises.
Most kind, Father.
As I recall, I opposed your enlistment in Starfleet... It is possible that judgment was incorrect. Your associates are people of good character.
They are my friends.
Yes, of course... Do you have any message for your mother?
Tell her I feel fine...
Hi.
Hi. Huey 205, isn't it?
Right on. You fly?
Oh, here and there. I flew something similar in my Academy days.
All right, then this is old stuff to you.
Old, yes. But interesting. Do you mind if I ask a few questions...?
Don't know anything about it? I find it difficult to believe that I've come millions of miles 
Millions?
Professor Scott, if you'll 
I demand to see the owners! I demand 
With pleasure.
Well, that's different.
If you'll follow me, Professor 
I will. Can my assistant come, too?
Of course.
Doctor Nichols, I might have something to offer <u>you</u>.
... Yes?
I notice you're still working with polymers.
Sill? What else would I be working with?
Ah, what else indeed? Let me put it another way: how thick would a piece of your plexiglass need to be at 60 feet by 10 feet to withstand the pressure of 18,000 cubic feet of water?
That's easy: 6 inches. We carry stuff that big in stock.
Yes, I noticed. Now suppose  just suppose  I could show you a way to manufacture a wall that would do the same job but was only an inch thick. would that be worth something to you, eh?
... Are you joking?
Hello? Computer...?
Just use the keyboard...
The keyboard... How quaint.
Transparent aluminum?
That's the ticket, laddie.
... But it would take years just to figure out the dynamics of this matrix...!
Even as the Federation negotiated a peace treaty with us, Kirk was secretly developing the Genesis torpedo! Conceived by Kirk's son and test detonated by the Admiral himself! The result of this awesome energy was euphemistically called "The Genesis Planet..." A secret base from which to launch the. annihilation of the Klingon people! We demand the extradition of Kirk! We demand justice!
Klingon justice is a unique point of view, Mr. President.
Genesis was perfectly named: The creation of life not death. It was the Klingons who had first blood while trying to possess its secrets.
Vulcans are well known as the intellectual puppets of the Federation!
Your vessel did destroy U.S.S. Grissom. Your men did kill Kirk's son. Do you deny these events?
We deny nothing! We have the right to preserve our race!
Do you have the right to murder?
Admiral, I'd like to continue my work on the ship until you leave.
Thank you, Lt. Saavik.
And... Here is a deposition I have made. If it is not sufficient, I will return to Earth to testify.
Don't concern yourself, Saavik. Your leave has been granted for good and proper cause. How are you feeling?
I am well, Admiral.
You will be in good hands here.
Well, Saavik. I guess this is goodbye.
Yes, Admiral. Sir. I have not had the opportunity to tell you about your son. David died most bravely. He saved Spock. He saved us all... I thought you should know.
Mr. Scott, how soon can we get underway?
Give me one more day, sir. The damage control is easy. Reading Klingon is hard.
We're ready, sir. I've converted the Dilithium Sequencer to something less primitive. And Admiral  I've replaced the Klingon Food Packs. They was givin' me sour stomach.
Appreciated by all, Mr. Scott. Prepare for departure.
Scotty, how long is this bay?
About 60 feet, Admiral.
That should be enough. Can you enclose it to hold water?
I suppose I can, sir; are you planning to take a swim?
Scotty, we have to find some Humpbacks.
Humpbacked  people.?
Whales, Scotty. 45 to 50 feet long; about 40 tons a piece.
Admiral  how am I going to handle all that weight?
You'll work it out, Scotty. And remember: two of them.
Two?
It takes two to tango, Mr. Scott.
They're giving out. Decrystallizing.
Give me a round figure, Mr. Scott.
Oh, twentyfour hours, give or take, staying cloaked. After that, Admiral, we'll be visible  and dead in the water. In any case, we won't have enough to break out of the Earth's gravity, to say nothing of getting back home.
I can't believe we've come this far only to be stopped by this! Scotty, is there any way dilithium can be recrystallized?
Sorry, sir. We can't even do that in the 23rd Century.
What is it? I thought I told you never to call me 
Sorry, Admiral. We just thought you'll like to know, we're beaming them now.
Oh I see  Tell Them phasers on stun. Good luck. Kirk out.
It's going slow, sir. It'll be well into tomorrow.
Not good enough, Scotty. You've got to do better!
I'll try, sir. Scott out. Well now, he's got himself in a bit of a snit, don't he.
I'm ready Spock. Let's go find George and Gracie...
Mr. Sulu?
Scotty: Are the whale tanks secure?
Aye. But I've never beamed up 400 tons before.
Stay with me, sir  I need more power curve...
How long, Scotty?
10 seconds, Admiral; 5  4  3  2  1.
Admiral! There be whales here!
Well done, Mr. Scott. How soon can we be ready for warp speed?
I'll have to reenergize.
Don't take too long. We're sitting ducks for their radar systems... Mr. Sulu, impulse climb.
Stand by, sir. Miracle worker at work...
Mr. Scott, don't make jokes, we are in danger of 
Full power, sir.
Mr. Sulu, if you please.
Ironic. When man was killing these creatures, he was destroying his own future...
The beasties seem happy to see you, Doctor. I hope you like our little aquarium.
You better get up there, sir. We're having some power falloff...
On my way...!
The whales...?!
No power to the bay doors.
The explosive override  ?
It's under water! There's no way to reach it...
Go on ahead... Close the hatch!
Admiral, you'll be trapped!
Excelsior? Why in God's name would you want that bucket of bolts?
Scotty, don't prejudge. A ship is a ship.
Systems report. Communications?
Communications Systems ready. Communications Officer  ready as she'll ever be.
Mr. Sulu?
What is it?
Overlapping distress calls. Some from Starships... others...
On screen!
Then, this is what it would sound like underwater?
Yes, sir.
Admiral, I am receiving whale songs.
On speakers.
Individual whale song getting stronger... This is strange, Admiral. The song is directly ahead. It's coming from San Francisco.
From a city? That doesn't make sense....
I'll have bearing and distance for you, sir.
Right. Now look: I want you all to be very careful. This is terra incognita. Many customs will doubtless take us by surprise. It's a forgone conclusion these people have never seen an extraterrestrial before.
We'll stick together till we get orientated. Bearing to the whales?
283 degrees... 15.2 kilometers...
Everyone remember where we parked.
Any luck...?
Nothing... I should never have left him...
Uhura, you did what was necessary. Keep trying. You'll find him...
I've found Chekov, sir: he's in emergency surgery right now.
Uhura!... Where!
Mercy Hospital.
Bearing!
Bearing 327, range 600 nautical.
Put them on screen!
Admiral, I have a signal closing on the whales. Bearing 328 degrees.
On screen.
Estimate range, ship to whales!
Sir... Estimating one nautical mile.
Unidentified aircraft, 40,000 feet MSL, range 30 miles, bearing 010.
Mr. Scott  how soon?
I can't, sir  Nothing!
Out of control, and blind as a bat!
Guidance is functional. Onboard Computer will interface with Federation memory bank...
Weapons systems?
Estimating Planet Earth one point six hours present speed.
Continue on course. Chekov, any signs of Federation escort?
Warp two... three...
Steady as she goes...
Warp Nine... Nine point two... Nine point three...
Mr. Sulu, we need breakaway speed!
Hang on, sir... Nine point seven... point eight... Breakaway threshold...
Steady!!... Now, Mr. Sulu!
Mr. Sulu...? ... Mr. Sulu?!
... Aye sir...?
What is our condition?
Sir... Braking thrusters seem to have fired.
Picture, please.
Aye, sir. Descending.
We'll divide into teams. Commanders Chekov and Uhura are assigned to the Uranium problem.
Ready sir.
Go, Mr. Sulu.
Maintaining impulse climb. Wing five by zero, helm steady.
Advise reaching 10,000. Steer threeonezero.
Threeonezero, aye!
Uhura, scan for the whales. 401 megahertz!
10,000 M.S.L., Admiral.
Wing to cruise configuration... Full impulse power.
Aye, sir... Threeonezero to the Bering Sea. E.T.A.: 12 minutes.
10 seconds, sir!
Hover on my mark, Mr. Sulu! Mr. Chekov, stand by decloaking  Scotty, ready for power build up! Mark, Mr. Sulu...
I have no control, sir!
Picture, Uhura!
Sir  I've got some back pressure on manual 
Ground cushion! Keep the nose up if you can 
Let's see what she's got, Mr. Sulu.
Aye, sir!
Permission to come aboard.
Permission granted.
Thank you, Admiral.
Jim, Spock, Jim. Remember...?
It would be improper to refer to you as Jim while you are in command, Admiral... Also, I must apologize for my attire. I seem to have misplaced my uniform.
Well, I... find that understandable I mean, you've been through a lot. Station, please.
Spock  you're suggesting the transmission is meant for life form other than man?
A distinct possibility, Admiral. The President did say the transmission was directed at the Earth's Oceans
Uhura... Can you modify the Probe's signals by accounting for density temperature and salinity factors?
Where are you going?!
To the onboard computer room. To confirm my suspicion.
Spock...?
As suspected, the Probe's transmissions are the songs sung by whales.
Whales?
Spock, could the Humpback's answer to this call be simulated?
The sounds, but not the language. We would be responding in gibberish.
Is there any other planet where this species exists?
The Humpback was indigenous to Earth. Earth of the past.
That leaves us no choice. We must destroy the probe before it destroys Earth.
That would be futile, Admiral. The probe would neutralize us easily.
But we can't turn away! Is there no alternative?
There is one, but I cannot guarantee its success. We could attempt to find some Humpback Whales.
Mr. Spock, your computations?
In progress, Admiral.
Uhura. Get me through to Starfleet Command.
Ready to engage computer, Admiral.
What is our target in time?
The late 20th Century.
Surely you can be more specific...
Not with this equipment. I have had to program some of the variables from memory.
What are the variables...?
Availability of fuel components; Mass of the vessel through a time continuum, and the probable location of Humpbacks, in this case, the Pacific basin.
You've programmed that from memory...?
I have.
Earth... But when?... Spock?
Judging by the pollution content of the atmosphere, I believe we have arrived at the late 20th Century.
Well done, Mr. Spock.
Home in on the strongest signal. Descend from orbit.
Admiral, if I may: we're probably already visible to the tracking devices of the time.
Quite right, Spock. Mr. Chekov, engage cloaking device!
There is a 20th Century possibility.
Explain.
If memory serves, there was a dubious flirtation with nuclear fission reactors resulting in toxic side effects. By the beginning of the fusion era, these reactors had been replaced, but at this time, we should be able to find some.
But you said toxic.
We could rig a device to collect their high energy photons safely; we could then inject the photons into the dilithium chamber, causing crystalline restructure.... Theoretically.
Where would we find these reactors... Theoretically.
Nuclear power was widely used in naval vessels...
Weren't those a birthday present from Dr. McCoy?
And they will be again, Spock. That's the beauty of it. How much?
Well, Spock, thanks to your restored memory and a little bit of luck, we are in the streets of San Francisco looking for a pair of humpback whales. How do you propose to solve this minor problem?
Simple logic will suffice. We need a map. That one should do.
I think we'll find what we're looking for at the Cetacean Institute in Sausalito. Two Humpbacks called George and Gracie.
How do you know this...?
... Simple logic.
As you observed, a primitive Culture.
Yes.
Admiral, may I ask you a question?
Spock, don't call me Admiral. Don't you remember: you used to call me Jim... Now what's your question?
Your use of language has altered since our arrival. It is currently laced with  shall I say  more colorful metaphors: "Double dumb ass on you"  and so forth...
You mean profanity. That's simply the way they talk here. Nobody pays any attention to you if you don't swear every other word. You'll find it in all the literature of the period.
For example?
Oh, the complete works of Jacqueline Susan, the novels of Harold Robbins....
Ah... The giants.
Come on, fellah  speak up!
Admiral, if we were to assume these. whales are ours to do with as we please, we would be as guilty as those who caused their extinction.
Spock...
Yes?
About those colorful metaphors we discussed. I don't think you should try to use them.
Why not?
Well, for one thing, you haven't quite got the hang of it.
I see.
And another thing... It is not always necessary to tell the truth.
I cannot tell a lie.
You don't have to lie... You could exaggerate.
Exaggerate.
You've done it before. Can't you remember?
The hell I can't
What else did you learn from your mind meld?
They are very unhappy about the way their species has been treated by man.
They have a right to be... Do you think they'll help us?
I believe I was successful in communicating our intentions.
... I see.
It's her  from the Institute. If we play our cards right, we may learn when those whales are really leaving.
How will playing cards help?
I meant 
He meant what you were saying on the tour: that if things keep on the way they're going, humpbacks will disappear forever.
Status?
The tank will be finished by morning...
That's cutting it closer than you know. What about team two?
No word since beamin. We can only wait for their call.
Damn.... Damnit! We've been so lucky. We have the two perfect whales in our hands, but if we don't move quickly, we'll lose them!
In that event, the probabilities are that our mission would fail.
Our <u>mission</u>! Goddam it, Spock, you're talking about the end of every life on Earth! You're half human, haven't you got any goddamned feelings about <u>that</u>!!
Admiral. Full power is restored.
Thank you, Spock.
Admiral, may I suggest that Dr. McCoy is correct. We must help Chekov.
Is that the logical thing to do, Spock...?
No, Admiral... But is the human thing to do.
Right. Will you help us?
Mr. Spock, where the hell is the power you promised me?
Admiral, you must wait one damn minute.
Mr. Sulu, take the con. I'm taking our guest down to see her whales. Mr. Spock: have you accounted for the variable mass of whales and water in your time reentry program?
Mr. Scott cannot give me exact figures, Admiral. So I will... Make a <u>guess</u>.
<u>You?</u> Spock, that's extraordinary.
Can we make breakaway speed!?
Hardly, Admiral, I cannot even guarantee we will escape the Sun's gravity! I will attempt to compensate by altering our trajectory.
Spock... Did braking thrusters fire?
They did, Admiral.
Then... Where the hell are we?
Spock: Condition report!
No data, Admiral. Computers are nonfunctional.
You got us to the right place, Spock. Now all we have to do is get the whales out before we <u>sink</u>. Mr. Scott, come in!... Scotty...?! Damn... Mr. Spock, see to the safety of all hands.
I will, Admiral.
You mean man...
To put it mildly. Since the dawn of time, men have harvested whales for a variety of purposes, most of which can be achieved synthetically at this point. A hundred years ago, using handthrown harpoons, they did plenty of damage  but that was nothing compared to what they've achieved in this century.
They are mature humpbacks, weighing 45,000 pounds each. They wandered into San Francisco Bay as calves and were brought here. We call them George and Gracie.
It's perfect, Spock: a male, a female, together in a contained space can beam them up together and consider ourselves damn lucky...
Despite all the things they are teaching us we have to return George and Gracie to the open sea.
Why's that?
Well, for one thing, we simply don't have the money to keep feeding them a couple of tons of shrimp a day!
How soon?
Soon... It's too bad because they're very friendly as you can see. I've grown quite attached to them... This way.
Ohhh<u>kay</u>. I don't know what this is about, but I want you guys outta here right now or I call the cops.
I assure you that won't be necessary. We were only trying to help...
The hell you were, buster. Your friend was messing up my tank and messing up my whales...
Back to San Francisco.
Came all the way down here to jump in and swim with the kiddies, huh?
There's really very little point in my trying to explain.
I buy that. What about him?
He's harmless. Back in the sixties he was part of the Free Speech movement at Berkeley. I think he did too much LDS.
LDS?? Are you dyslexic on top of everything else? Come on, Lemme give you a lift. I have a notorious weakness for hard luck cases  that's why I work with whales.
We don't want to be any trouble.
You've already been that. C'mon.
Thanks.
Don't mention it. And don't try anything, either. I got a tire iron right where I can get at it.
Memory problems, too.
Uh huh. What about you? Where you from?
Iowa.
A landlubber. Come on, what the hell were you boys really trying to do back there? Was it some kinda macho thing? If that's all, I'm gonna be real disappointed. I hate that macho type.
Can I ask <u>you</u> something?
Go ahead.
What's going to happen when you release the whales?
They're gonna hafta take their chances.
What does that mean, exactly? Take their chances.
It means that they will be at risk from whale hunters  same as the rest of the humpbacks. What did you mean when you said all that stuff back at the Institute about extinction?
No, ma'am. No dipshit.
Well, that's something. I'da let you off right here.
All right. Who are you? and don't jerk me around any more. I want to know how you know that.
We can't tell you. Please, just  let me finish. I can tell you that we're not in the military and that we intend no harm to the whales.
Then 
In fact, we may be able to help  in ways that, frankly, you couldn't possibly imagine.
Or believe, I'll bet.
Very likely. You're not exactly catching us at our best.
Just a little joke. See you later, old friend.
How did you know Gracie's pregnant? Nobody knows that.
He's just going to hang around the bushes while we eat?
It's his way.
Do you trust me?
Implicitly.
Good. A large mushroom and pepperoni with extra onions. And a Michelob.
So how did a nice girl like you get to be a cetacean biologist?
Just lucky, I guess.
You're upset about losing the whales.
... You're very perceptive.
How will that be done, exactly?
They'll be flown in a special 747 to Alaska and released there.
Flown... And that's the last you'll see of them?
See, yes. But we'll tag them with radio transmitters on a special frequency so we can keep tabs on them.
You know, I could take those whales somewhere they wouldn't be hunted.
You? You can't even get from Sausalito to San Francisco without a lift.
Thanks. Cheers.
If you have such a low opinion of my abilities, how come we're having dinner?
I told you: I'm a sucker for hard luck cases. Besides, I want to know why you travel around with that ditzy guy who knows that Gracie is pregnant and calls you Admiral.
Where could you take them?
Hm?
My whales? Where could you take them where they'd be safe?
It's not so much a matter of a place as of time.
Sorry, the time would have to be right now.
What do you mean now?
Let's just say that no humpback born in captivity has ever survived. Problem is, they won't be a whole lot safer at sea because of all the hunting this time of year... So that, as they say, is that. Damn.
What's that?
What's what?
You got a pocket pager? What are you, a doctor?
Wanna try it from the top?
Tell me when the whales are going to be released?
... Who are you?
Who do you think I am?
Don't tell me: you're from outer space.
No, I'm from Iowa. I just work in outer space.
Well, I was close. I knew outer space was going to come into it sooner or later.
All right. The truth?
I'm all ears.
That's what you think. Okay...Truth... I'm from what, on your calendar, would be the late 23rd Century. I've been sent back in time to bring two Humpback Whales with me in an attempt to... repopulate the species.
Well, why didn't you say so? Why all the coy disguises?
You want the details?
Are you kidding? I wouldn't miss this for all the tea in China.
Then tell me when the whales are leaving.
Jesus, you are persistent. Okay, your friend was right. Gracie is not only pregnant, she is very pregnant... At noon tomorrow  in what is sure to be a media circus  the whales get shipped out.
Noon tomorrow...?!
Well, "Admiral," that may be the strangest dinner of my life and the biggest cockamamie fish story I've ever heard.
You asked. Now, will you tell me something? George and Gracie's transmitter. What's the frequency?
Sorry, that's classified. I don't really have a clue who you are... You wouldn't want to show me around your space ship, would you?
It wouldn't be my first choice, no.
So. There we are.
Lemme tell you something. I'm here to bring two humpbacks into the 23rd Century. If I have to, I'll go to the open sea to get them, but I'd just as soon take yours  better for me, better for you... and better for them.
I bet you're a damn good poker player.
Think about it  but don't take too long because I'm out of time. If you change your mind, this is where I'll be.
Here... In the park?
Right.
It's true... what you said...
Yes... And I'm glad you're here. Though I'll admit, you picked a hellova time to drop in...
Steady, now. We need your help.
Have I flipped out? ... Is any of this real?
It's all real. Look. The storage tanks for the whales.
But Kirk...
We'll bring them up just like we brought you. It's called a transporter beam...
Kirk. They're gone.
... Gone?!
They were taken last night. I wasn't told. They're in Alaska by now.
... Damn!
What kind of spaceship is this, anyway?
A spaceship with a missing man.
If we keep going up, they'll catch us!
Calm yourself, Nurse. Scotty, get us out of here!
Gillian... Would the whales be at sea by now?
Yes... If you have a chart on board, I can show you.
All I need is the radio frequency to track them.
What are you talking about? I'm coming with you.
You can't. Our next stop is the 23rd Century.
What do I care? I've got nobody but those whales...
I have no time to argue, Gillian. Or even tell you how much you've meant to us... The <u>frequency</u>.
All right. The frequency is 401 megahertz.
Thank you. For everything. Beam me up, Scotty.
You tricked me.
You need me.
Oh my God, we're too late!
Mr. Sulu: full power descent!
... What does that mean?
He means our chances of getting home are not very good. You might have lived a longer life if you'd stayed where you belong.
I belong here. Suppose by some miracle you do get them through. Who in the 23rd Century knows anything about Humpback whales?
... You have a point...
Hey!  Where you going?!
You're going to your ship, I'm going to mine. Science Vessel. I've got 300 years of catchup learning to do.
You mean this is  goodbye?
Why does it have to be goodbye?
Well, I... As they say in your century  I don't even have your phone number. How will I find you?
Don't worry. I'll find <u>you</u>. See you around the galaxy...
To hunt a species to extinction is not logical.
Whoever said the human race was logical? Now if you'll follow me, I'll introduce you to the Institute's pride and joy.
Attempting the hell to communicate.
Communicate? Communicate what? You have no right to be here!
They like you very much. But they are not the hell your whales.
I suppose they told you that...?
The hell they did.
So you were at Berkeley.
I was not.
Are you sure it isn't time for a colorful metaphor?
You're not one of those guys from the military, are you? Trying to teach whales to retrieve torpedoes, or some dipshit stuff like that?
You sure you won't change your mind?
Is there something wrong with the one I have?
Status report, Admiral!
Mr. President, the Probe has passed through all quadrants. The starships Shepard and Yorktown and three smaller vessels have been neutralized.
"Neutralized?" How?
We don't know. It's using forms of energy our best scientists do not understand...
Can you protect us?
We are launching everything we have.
Operational, Admiral. Cloaking Device now available in all modes of flight.
I'm impressed, Mr. Chekov. A lot of effort for a short voyage.
We are in an enemy wessel, sir. I didn't wish to be shot down on thee way to our own funeral.
Most prudent. Engine room. Report, Scotty.
No, sir. And no Federation wessels on assigned patrol stations.
That's odd. Uhura, what's on the Comm channels...?
Shields, Mr. Chekov.
Shields, aye.
May fortune favor the foolish. Mr. Sulu, Warp Speed!
No choice now, Scotty!
Sir, heat shields at maximum!
Yes, sir.
Dr. McCoy, you, Mr. Scott and Commander Sulu will convert us a whale tank.
Ah, well done, team 2.
And Admiral, it's the Enterprise.
Understood. What is your plan?
Cloaking device is stable... All systems normal.
Stabilize Energy Reserve!... Report helm:
The mains are down, sir! Aux power is not responding.
Mr. Sulu, switch to manual control!
All right, Commander, you wanna tell us anything?
Like what?
Like who you really are and what you're doing here and what this thing is.
My name is Pavel Chekov. I am a Lt. Commander in Starfleet, United Federation of Planets, service number 6565827b.
All right. Let's take it from the top.
The top of what?
Name?
My name?
No, <u>my</u> name.
I do not know your name.
You play games with me and you're through
I am? May I go now?
Okay... Make nice and give us the ray gun.
I varn you. If you don't lie on the floor, I vill have to stun you.
Go ahead. Stun me.
I'm wery sorry, but 
Find it?
Yes, under "U.S. Government." Now we need directions.
Team leader, this is team 2. Come in, please...
I have the coordinates of the reactor...
... It gives me a great sense of history.
It gives me a great sense of danger. We have to beam in next to the reactor room, not in it.
How long?
Depends on how much shielding is between us and the reactor.
What's causing that!?
Captain, their call is being carried on an amplification wave of enormous power!
Can you isolate the wave?
Negative. It's impacting on all our systems!
Damage report!
Captain... All systems have failed... We are functioning on reserve power only.
We're out of control  Rig for collision...
Who are you? Doctor Adams was supposed to assist me.
We're just  observing.
I was not informed about observers.
What the hell do you think you're doing?
Reading the patient's vital signs.
What's your degree in, dentistry?
How do you explain slowing pulse, low respiratory rate and coma?
Fundoscopic examination 
Fundoscopic examination is unrevealing in these cases!
A simple evacuation of the expanding epidural hematoma will relieve the pressure.
My God, man, drilling holes in his head is not the answer. The artery must be repaired without delay or he will die! So put away your butcher knives and let me save the patient!
Hi... Busy?
Uhura is busy. I am monitoring.
Umm. Well, just wanted to say  nice to have your katra back in your head, not mine. I mean, I may have carried your soul, but I sure couldn't fill your shoes.
... My shoes...
Forget it... How 'bout covering a little philosophical ground? Life, Death, Life... Things of that nature?
I did not have time on Vulcan to review the Philosophical disciplines.
Spock, it's me, Bones! I mean our experience was unique. You really have gone where no man has gone before. Can't you tell me what it felt like?
It would be impossible to discuss the subject without a common frame of reference.
You're joking...!
A joke is a story with a humorous climax.
You mean I have to die to discuss your insights on death?
Pardon me, Doctor, I am hearing many calls of distress.
Most unusual. An unknown form of energy of great intelligence and power. I find it illogical that its intentions are hostile...
Really? You think this is its way of saying "Hi there" to the people of the Earth?
There are millions of other species on Earth, Doctor. Only human arrogance would assume the message was meant for man.
I liked him better before he died.
Specifically, Humpback Whales.
That's crazy! Who would send a probe hundreds of light years to talk to a whale?
10 million years earlier. Humpbacks were heavily hunted by Man. They have been extinct since the 21st Century... It is possible that an alien intelligence sent the probe to determine why they lost contact.
... My God...
You just said there aren't any except on Earth of the past.
That is what I said, Doctor.
Then how.?
Angels and ministers of grace, defend us.
Hamlet, Act I scene 4.
You, ah... You present the appearance of a man with a problem.
Your perception is correct, Doctor... In order to return us to the exact moment at which we left the 23rd Century, I have used our journey back through time as a referent, calculating the coefficient of elapsed time in relation to the acceleration curve.
Naturally. So what is your problem?
Acceleration is no longer a constant.
Well, you're gonna have to take your best shot.
... Best shot...?
Guess, Spock. Your best guess.
"Guessing" is not in my nature...
Well nobody's perfect...
... I don't think he understands...
No, Spock. It means he feels safer about your "guesses" than most other peoples facts.
You're saying... It is a compliment.
It is.
You'd think they could at least send a ship. Bad enough to be court marshaled and spend the rest of our lives mining borite  but to come home in this Klingon flea trap...
We could learn a thing or two from this flea trap. It has a cloaking device that cost us a lot.
I just wish we could cloak the stench.
You sure this is such a bright idea?
What do you mean?
I mean <u>him</u>, back at his post, like nothing happened. I don't know if you'd got the whole picture but he isn't exactly working on all thrusters.
It'll come back to him.
Are you sure? That's what I thought.
Mr. Sulu... Take us home...
Bones 
Dammit, Jim, they've made him into a goddam greenblooded computer!
Bones, stay here.
No way  somebody has to keep an eye on him!
Now wait just a damn minute.
Spock, start your computations for time warp. Come on, Bones. Let's pay Scotty a visit.
You're really going to try this time travel in this rust bucket?
We've done it before.
Sure, slingshot around the Sun. If you pick up enough speed you're in time warp. If you don't, you fry..
Would you prefer to do nothing?
I prefer a dose of common sense. you are proposing to head backwards in time, find Humpback Whales, then bring them forward in time, drop them off  and hope they tell this Probe what to do with itself!
 That's the general idea.
That's crazy!
If you have a better idea  now's the time.
It doesn't look all that different.
Let's hope so, Bones. Mr. Sulu, set us down in Golden Gate Park.
Oh, joy.
Captain Spock and I will attempt to trace these whale songs to their source.
Jim, you've got to let me go in there! Don't leave him in the hands of Twentieth Century medicine.
What do you think, Spock?
What did you say she was getting?
Cramps.
An experimental device, doctor.
Tearing of the middle meningeal artery...
Wake up, man, wake up!
Come on, Pavel...
He's coming 'round, Jim...
Pavel, can you hear me? Give me your name and rank...
Congratulations, Jim. I think you've saved the Earth.
Not me, Bones... They did it.
Professor Scott, I'm Dr. Nichols, plant manager. I'm terribly sorry but there's been an awful mixup Would you believe I was never told about your visit?
I tried to clear things up, Professor Scott. I explained you'd come all the way from Edinburgh on appointment to study manufacturing methods here at Plexico, but they don't seem to know anything about it.
Well, so much for the tour of our humble plant. I must say, Professor your knowledge of engineering is most impressive.
Back home, we call him the miracle worker.
Indeed... May I offer you gentlemen anything?
He never jokes... Perhaps the professor could use your computer.
Please...
No! No... What did you have in mind...?
A moment alone, please.
Heard there was some excitement.
Just a couple of kooks...
How're you doing?
Fine. Just fine.
Don't tell me fish stories, kiddo. I've known you too long.
Bob... it's tearing me apart.
I know. I feel the same thing. But we're between a rock and a hard place. We can't keep them without risking their lives and we can't let them go without a taking the same chance.
Yeah.
And finally, they're not human beings, you know. Their intelligence has in no way been proven comparable to ours 
I don't know about you, but my compassion for someone is not limited to my estimate of their intelligence. I mean whales may not have painted the Mona Lisa or invented the dirt bike but they didn't ravish the land either.
Sorry if I spoke out of turn.
Not at all. You gave me things to think about. You always do. You do sound a little wrecked, why don't you go home and stare at the ceiling?
Why don't I?
You  sent them away. Without even letting me say goodbye?
Gillian 
I do not understand the final question...
You are half human. The Computer knows that.
The question is irrelevant.
Spock... The retraining of your mind has been in the Vulcan way, so you may not understand feelings. But as my son, you have them. They will surface.
As you wish, since you deem them of value. But I cannot wait here to find them.
Where must you go?
To Earth. To offer testimony.
You do this  for friendship?
I do this because I was there,
Spock. Does the good of the many outweigh the good of the one...?
I would accept that as an axiom.
Then you stand here alive because of a mistake  made by your flawed, feeling, human friends. They have sacrificed their futures because they believed that the good of the <u>one</u>  you  was more important to them.
Humans make illogical decisions...
... They do, indeed.
Fire all phasers...!
No power to the weapons system, sir.
He's not what I expected, Sir.
What did you expect, Lieutenant?
He's very human.
We can't all be perfect, Saavik. You must control your prejudices and remember that as a Vulcan as well as a Romulan you are forever a stranger in an alien land. Around you are humans, and as a member of the Starfleet you are unlikely ever to escape their presence or their influence. You must learn to tolerance in addition to all else I have taught you. Tolerance is logical.
Very well, Mr. Saavik, clear all moorings.
Aye, sir.
All moorings are clear, Captain.
Thank you, Mr. Saavik.
Lieutenant, how many times have you piloted a Starship out of Spacedock?
Never, sir.
Take her out, Mr. Saavik.
Aye, sir.
Sir, may I quote General Order 12: 'On the approach of any vessel, when communications have not been est 
Lieutenant, the Admiral is aware of the Regulations.
Aye, sir.
Certainly...
By the book...
You lied.
I exaggerated.
Leaving Section Fourteen for Section Fifteen.
Project parabolic course to avoid entering Neutral Zone.
Aye, Captain.
May I remind the Captain that if a Starship enters the zone 
I'm aware of my responsibilities, Mister.
... Now entering the Neutral Zone...
Shields activated!
Inform the Klingons we are on a rescue mission...
We're over our heads. Mr. Sulu, get us out of here.
I'll try, Captain.
Aft thrusters, Mr. Sulu.
Aft thrusters, sir.
We are clear and free to navigate.
Course heading, Captain?
Prepare for warp speed.
Ready, sir.
We commend the soul of our brother departed. We love we commit his body to the depths of space.
Honors  hup!
I really must thank you.
I am delighted; any chance to go aboard Enterprise, however briefly, is always an excuse for nostalgia.
I cut your new orders personally. By the end of the month, you'll have your first command: USS EXCELSIOR.
Thank you, sir. I've looked forward to this for a long time.
You've earned it. But I'm still grateful to have you at the helm for three weeks. I don't believe these kids can steer.
Stop engines.
Stop engines.
Course plotted for Regula I, Admiral...
Engage warp engines 
Reliant in our section this quadrant, sir, and slowing 
Visual.
Mr. Sulu... The shields!
Trying, sir!
I can't get power, sir!
Scotty!
Mr. Sulu, lock phasers on target and await my command...
Phasers locked...
Sir, you did it.
<u>I did nothing</u>  except get caught with my britches down. I must be senile. Mr. Saavik, you just keep right on quoting regulations. Meantime, let's find out what the hell is going on and see how bad we've been 
Approaching Regula and Space Lab Regula I.
Try again.
Admiral on the bridge 
Battle stations.
Phaser lock inoperative, sir.
Best guess, Mr. Sulu. Fire when ready.
Any suggestions, Admiral?
Prayer, Mr. Saavik. The Klingons do not take prisoners. Captain.
Well, Mr. Saavik, are you going to stay with the sinking ship?
Permission to speak candidly, sir?
Very well.
I don't believe this was a fair test of my command capabilities.
And why not?
Because... there was no way to win.
A nowin situation is a possibility every commander may face. Has that never occurred to you?
... No, sir. It has not.
How we deal with death is at least as important as how we deal with life, wouldn't you say?
As I indicated, Admiral, that thought had not occurred to me.
Then you have something new to think about. Carry on.
Lieutenant, are you wearing your hair differently?
It is still regulation, Admiral.
May I speak, sir?
Lieutenant, selfexpression does not seem to be one of your problems.
I wish to thank you for the high efficiency rating.
You earned it.
I did not think so.
You're bothered by your performance on the <u>Kobayashi Maru</u>.
I failed to resolve the situation.
There is no correct resolution. It is a test of character.
May I ask how <u>you</u> dealt with the test?
You may ask, Lieutenant.
That was a little joke.
Humor... that is a difficult concept ... it is not logical...
We learn by doing, Lieutenant.
Yes.
Take the test again.
This is damned peculiar. Yellow alert.
Energize defense fields.
Khan!
Who?
Reliant's command...
HURRY.
On screen...
We're finding it. Please, <u>please</u>  you've got to give us time  the bridge is smashed, computers inoperative...
Begging the Admiral's pardon: General Order 15: 'No flag officer shall beam into a hazardous area without armed escort.'
There is no such regulation.
Indeterminate life signs.
Phasers on stun. Move out.
That's true, Admiral. All the memory cells have been emptied.
Erased...
It doesn't make sense. These coordinates are well within Regula  a plantoid we know to be lifeless and airless.
If Stage Two was completed, it was underground  she said it was going to be underground.
Stage Two of what?
Admiral?
As your teacher Mr. Spock is fond of saying: I like to think there always are possibilities.
What's on your mind, Lieutenant?
The <u>Kobayashi Maru</u>, sir.
Are you asking me if we are playing out that scenario now, Lieutenant?
On the test, sir, will you tell me what you did? I'd really like to know.
How?
I reprogrammed the simulation so it was possible to rescue the ship.
<u>WHAT</u>?
I changed the conditions of the test. I received a commendation for original thinking. I don't like to lose.
Then  you never faced that situation  faced death...
But the damage report  we were immobilized...
Come, come, Lieutenant, you of all people go by the book. Hello, Spock. You remember Dr. Marcus...
Regulation 46A: 'If transmissions are being monitored during battle...'
'... no uncoded messages on an open channel...'
That was close 
They just don't want us going in there.
Hold your course. Look sharp...
At what.
Mr. Saavik, all stop.
All stop, sir.
Descend ten thousand meters. Stand by photon torpedoes.
Cease fire. Look sharp.
Power levels quite low, sir.
Mr. Scott, can you get the mains back on line?
Saavik, get us out, best speed!
Aye, sir.
Time from my mark...
Two minutes, ten seconds.
Engine room! What's happening?!
Time!
Three minutes, thirty seconds.
Distance from Reliant...
After you dismiss the company, you will take the watch. Set course for Ceti Alpha V and we'll pick up survivors.
Aye, sir.
I'll be in my quarters if needed, but I would prefer...
Understood, sir.
Dismiss the company.
Admiral on the bridge!
As you were, Mr. Saavik.
Aye, sir. On course to Ceti Alpha. All is well.
Good, I believe you already know my, uh, son 
Yes, well, why don't you show him around and...
Aye, sir 
Kirk here.
I have an urgent CommPic from Space Lab Regula I for the Admiral. Dr. Carol Marcus.
In my quarters, Uhura.
Yes, sir.
Uhura! What's happening? Damn it...
Transmission jammed at the source, sir.
Damn. Alert Starfleet Headquarters. I want to talk with Starfleet Command.
Captain Spock, if you do not hear from us within <u>one hour</u> your orders are to restore what power you can, take the Enterprise to the nearest Star Base and alert Starfleet command when you are out of jamming range.
Sir  we won't leave you behind...!
Uhura, if you don't hear from us, there won't be anybody behind. Kirk out. You gentleman can remain here, or...
I assume you are loitering here to learn what efficiency rating I plan to give your cadets.
I am understandably curious.
They destroyed the simulator room and you with it.
The <u>Kobayshi Maru</u> scenario frequently wreaks havoc with students and equipment. As I recall you took the test three times yourself. Your final solution was, shall we say, unique?
It had the virtue of never having been tried.
Yours was not a solution which would have occurred to a Vulcan mentality.
So you said at the time. Speaking of which, your protg's first rare  a trifle emotional 
She's half Romulan, Jim. The admixture makes her more volatile than  me, for example.
Than you. Yes, I see that. By the way, thank you for this.
I know of your fondness for antiques.
'It was the best of times, it was the worst of times...' Message, Spock?
None of which I am consciously aware  except, of course, happy birthday  surely the best of times.
Hrummm... and where are you off to, now?
The Enterprise. I must check in before your inspection. And you?
Home.
Permission to come aboard, Captain?
Welcome aboard, Admiral. I believe you know my trainee crew. Certainly they have come to know you.
Yes, we've been through death and life together.
There's a first time for everything, Admiral.
To be sure, Captain.
Something may be wrong at Regula I. We've been ordered to investigate.
Regula I is a scientific research laboratory, if memory serves...
I told Starfleet all we had was a boatload of children but we're the only ship in the quadrant. Spock: those cadets of yours  how good are they? How will they respond under real pressure?
Like all living beings, Admiral each according to his gifts. The ship is yours.
That won't be necessary: just take me to Regula I.
Excuse my presumption, but I do not agree. As a teacher on a training mission, I am content to command a Starship. If we are to go on actual duty, it is clear that the senior officer aboard must assume command.
But it may be nothing; garbled communications. Why don't you...
You proceed from a false assumption. I am a Vulcan. I have no ego to bruise.
You are going to remind me that logic alone dictates your actions.
I was going to remind you of nothing, least of all that which you know well. Your mistake, if I may be so bold, was promotion. Commanding a Starship is your first best destiny. Anything else is a waste of material.
I would not presume to debate you.
That is wise. In any case, were I to invoke logic, logic clearly dictates that the needs of the many outweigh the needs of the few.
Or the one.
Will you accompany me to the bridge?
I'd best talk with Mr. Scott, first so that he may, in his own words, explain the situation to his cadets.
There are two possibilities, sir they are unwilling to respond, they are unable to respond.
How far?
Twelve hours and fortythree minutes, present speed.
Give up Genesis, she said. What in God's name does that mean? Give it up to whom?
It might help my analysis if I knew what Genesis was.
Carol Marcus 
Yes.
It literally is Genesis...
The power of creation 
Have they proceeded with their experiments?
The tape was made a year ago. I can only assume they've reached Phase Two by now 
Gentlemen, this isn't 
Really, Dr. McCoy; you cannot ban the acquisition of knowledge because you distrust the moral implications of what you learn. Logic suggests 
What's she doing here?
Chekov's on Reliant, isn't he?
Is it possible their COMM system has failed  ?
It would explain a great many things 
Their coil emissions are normal... Wait: their shields are going up. They're locking phasers  !
Raise shields! Energize phasers, stand by to 
They knew just where to hit us.
WHO? Who knew just where to hit us? And <u>why</u>?
One thing is certain; we cannot escape on auxiliary power.
Visual! Mr. Sulu, divert everything to the phasers 
Too late 
Not enough against their shields.
Who the <u>hell</u> are they?
Admiral, you can't give him Genesis...
At least we know he hasn't got it. Just keep nodding as though I'm giving orders. Saavik, punch up the data charts of Reliant's command console  hurry...
The prefix code?
It's all we've got.
You've got to learn WHY things work on a Starship. It's coming through now, Khan...
The prefix code is 16309. All commands from each Starship bridge are relayed electronically; each ship has its own prefix combination code...
Let's hope he hasn't changed the combination. He's quite intelligent...
Wait for my signal, Spock  too soon and he'll have time to figure it out and raise them again.
Scanners and sensors still inoperative. There's no way to tell what's inside the station.
And no way of knowing if Reliant is still in the area...
Affirmative, Admiral.
... Blind as a Tiberian Bat. What do you make of the plantoid beyond?
Regula is class "D'. It consists of various remarkable ores. Essentially, a great rock in space.
Reliant could be hiding behind that rock.
A distinct possibility.
Engine room... Scotty, do we have enough power for the transporters?
All right, join the party. Mr. Spock, the ship is yours.
Aye sir 
Establish a parking orbit around the station and send me a complete damage report when you've talked with Mr. Scott.
Be careful, Jim...
What IS working around here?
Not much, Admiral. We have partial main power...
That's it?
Best we could do in two hours.
Uh oh.
She can outrun us and outgun us. But there is the Mutara Nebula at 153 mark four.
Scotty, can we make it inside?
I think we can guarantee she'll follow us, Mr. Saavik. Remind me to explain to you the concept of human ego.
Best speed, Scotty...
Estimating nebula penetration in two minutes. Reliant is closing.
Steady as you go...
Admiral, they're reducing speed.
Uhura, patch me in 
Sporadic energy readings port side, aft. Could be an impulse turn.
He won't break off now. If he followed me this far he'll be back. But from where...?
He's intelligent, but not experienced. His pattern indicates two dimensional thinking...
Spock!
The ship  out of danger?
Yes 
... the good of the few...
Or the one.
I never took the <u>Kobayashi Maru</u> test  until now. What do you think of my solution?
Spock...!
I have been  and always will be  your friend... Live. Long. And. Prosper.
And who is this?
Midshipman First Class Peter Preston, engineers mate, SIR.
Your first training voyage, Mr. Preston?
Yes, SIR.
I see. Well, shall we start with the engine room?
I believe you'll find everything shipshape, Admiral.
Oh do you? Have you any idea, Midshipman Preston, how many times I've had to listen to Mr. Scott on the Comm, telling me his troubles? Have you any idea the ribbing I've had to endure in the officers' mess to the effect that the Enterprise is a flying death trap?
Oh, no, sir! This is the finest engine room in the whole Star 
Is the word given?
The word is given: warp speed.
Aye...
If he hadn't, we'd be space by now.
Admiral, this is Spock.
Yes, Spock.
Engine room reports auxiliary power restored. We can proceed at impulse power.
Best speed to Regula I. Kirk out. Scotty, I've got to ask: Any chance of getting the mains back on the line?
Kirk to Enterprise. Damage report, Spock?
Admiral, if we go by the book, like Lieutenant Saavik, hours could seem like days.
I read you, Captain. Let's have it.
Meaning you can't even beam us back?
Not at present.
Spock, this is Kirk. It's two hours. Are you about ready?
Right on schedule, Admiral. Just give us your coordinates and we'll beam you aboard.
Mr. Scott, you old space dog. You're well?
I had me a wee bout  but Dr. McCoy pulled me through.
Oh? A wee bout of what, Mr. Scott?
Midshipman, you're a tiger.
My sister's youngest, Admiral. Crazy to get to space.
Every young boy's fancy. I seem to remember it myself. Very well. Mr. Scott, are your engines capable of handling a minor training cruise?
Give the word, Admiral.
Mr. Scott, the word is given.
Aye, sir.
<u>WHY</u>?
He wants to kill me for passing sentence on him 14 years ago  and he doesn't care who stands between him and his vengeance.
The energizer's bypassed like a Christmas tree  so don't give me too many bumps.
No promises, Mr. Scott. On your way.
Admiral, I've got to take the mains off the line. The energizer's shaken loose and I can't get in there to fix her  radiation 
All right, we'll do the job with auxiliary power.
No, sir! You'll flood the whole compartment...!
He'll die  !
Uhura. Can't you augment?
I'm trying, sir. Stand by...
She's not responding...
Try the emergency channels...
Enterprise to Reliant. Come in, Reliant.
Picture, Mr. Saavik.
I'm getting a voice message... wait ... short range band. They say their Chambers coil is shorting their COMM system.
Spock?
Mr. Scott on discrete.
Scotty, let's have it.
On screen.
Admiral 
Do it, while we have time.
... No response, sir.
Sensors, Captain?
Saavik, for God's sake, tell her we're all right.
I say again. This is Enterprise. Please acknowledge signal. Please 
Enterprise to Reliant: you are ordered to surrender your vessel. Respond! Nothing, sir.
We'll beam aboard. Alert transporter room 
An emergency situation has arisen. By order of Starfleet Command, as of now, 1800 hours, I am assuming command of this vessel. Duty officer so note in the ship's log. Plot a new course: for Space Laboratory Regula I. Mr. Scott?
Aye, sir.
We'll be going to warp speed 
Aye, sir 
Scotty  what's left?
Just the batteries, sir. I can have auxiliary power in a few minutes 
We don't have minutes. Can you give me phaser power?
A few shots, sir.
Just barely, sir.
I'm going down to the station.
I'll need ten minutes, sir, 'til the radiation dissipates.
Uhura, send to Commander, Reliant: prepare to be boarded.
I don't know you. But you. I never forget a face. Mister Chekov, isn't it? I never thought to see your face again.
Chekov, who is this man?
You are in a position to demand nothing, sir. I, on the other hand, am in a position to grant nothing. What you see is all that remains of the ship's company and the crew of the <u>Botany Bay</u>, marooned here fifteen years ago by Captain James T. Kirk.
Listen to me  you men and women 
Save your strength, Captain, these people have sworn to live and die at my command two hundred years before you were born. Do you mean he... ... never told you the tale? To amuse you, Captain? Never told you how the <u>Enterprise</u> picked up the <u>Botany Bay</u>, lost in space from the year 1996, myself and the ship's company in cryogenic freeze?
I've never even met Admiral Kirk 
Admiral? He didn't tell you how <u>Admiral</u> Kirk sent seventy of us into exile on this barren sand heap with only the contents of these cargo bays to sustain us?
Captain... We're waiting. What's the delay?
All is well, sir. You have the coordinates to beam up Genesis...
First things first, Captain. Kill Admiral Kirk.
You still remember, Admiral. I cannot help but be touched. Of course, I remember you.
What is the meaning of this attack? Where is the crew of the Reliant?
Surely I have made my meaning plain. I mean to avenge myself upon you, Admiral. I've deprived your ship of power and when I swing round I mean to deprive you of your life 
 But I wanted you to know first who it was who had beaten you: I, Khan Noonian Singh, the eagle you attempted to cage forever.
Khan, listen to me  if its me you want, I'll have myself beamed aboard. All I ask is that you spare my crew.
That is a most intriguing offer. Typical, I must say of your sterling character. Let me think.
Genesis, what's that?
Don't play with me, Kirk, my hand is on the phaser control 
Give me some time to recall the data on our computers 
I give you sixty seconds, Admiral.
Thirty seconds...
... to prevent an enemy from doing just what we're attempting; using <u>our</u> console to tap in a message, an order to lower Reliant's damn shields...
Khan, how do I know you'll keep your word?
I've given you no word to keep, Admiral. In my judgment, you simply have no alternative.
I take your point. Stand by to receive our transmission.
Time's up, Admiral...
Here it comes. Now, Spock.
Kirk! Kirk, you are still alive  my old friend...
Still, 'old friend.' You've managed to kill just about everyone else, but like a poor marksman, you keep missing the target.
Perhaps I no longer need to try.
Goodbye, Admiral. Oh, and don't count on Enterprise. She can't move. My next act will be to blow her out of the heavens.
KHAN!
Steady on course. All systems normal.
It's not much different from Enterprise. When I was a guest aboard her some years ago, Captain Kirk kindly allowed me to memorize her technical manuals. And now, Mr. Chekov, let us review: You say you have no details of Project 'Genesis' ?
They're requesting visual communications, sir.
Let them eat static.
They're still running with shields down.
Of course. We're one big happy fleet. Ah, Kirk, my old friend, do you know the Klingon proverb that tells us revenge is a dish that is best served cold? It is very cold in space.
Careful: Not all at once. <u>The</u> <u>engine room</u>. Lock on target and prepare to fire.
Locking phasers on target.
Sir  our shields are dropping!
Raise them 
They won't 
<u>Where's the override</u>??
At them! At them! FIRE! FIRE! Why can't you?
We can't fire, sir; they've damaged the photon controls and the warp drive. We must withdraw!
No!
Sir, we must! We must repair the damage. Enterprise will wait; she's not going anywhere.
Well?
Warp drive still inoperative. All other systems should be restored shortly.
Departing dark side, Regula.
Visual 
We'll lose them if they go in there.
Rake her.
No sir! We have Genesis  Whatever you want 
<u>Full power damn you</u>!
Tactical!
Inoperative.
Raise the shields...
Yours... is... the superior...
I shall avenge you 
Let go  he can't  !
Only half of you would get there.
What are you looking at?
The Admiral's son.
Don't you believe it.
Oh, I believe it.
What are <u>you</u> looking at?
I don't know.
I'm Admiral Kirk...
<u>We were still there</u>, you dumb bastard! We could hear the screams all the way to the transporter room 
Where's Dr. Marcus 
I'm Doctor Marcus!
Why didn't you tell me?
She's making it up! My father was Professor 
It's a long story.
We appear to have plenty of time.
It's the Genesis Wave!
What?
He's on a build up to detonation!
How soon 
We encoded four minutes 
We'll beam aboard and stop it 
You can't!
I don't mean to intrude.
Uh, no... I should be on the bridge.
Are you running away from me?
I suppose I was. I poured a drink. Would you like it?
No. I  I guess I'm not what you expected.
I didn't expect anything.
That makes two of us. Lieutenant Saavik was right: you never have faced death 
Not like this  no. I haven't faced death, I cheated death. I tricked my way out of death and patted myself on the back for my ingenuity. I know nothing.
You knew enough to tell Saavik that how we face death is at least as important as how we face life 
It was just words.
But good words. That's where ideas begin. Maybe you should listen to them.
I'm trying, David.
So am I. My friends were killed, too.
I am truly sorry.
I was wrong about you. And <u>I'm</u> sorry.
Is that what you came here to say?
Mainly. And also that I'm proud  very proud  to be your son.
You lie! On Ceti Alpha V there was life, a fair chance to 
<u>This is Ceti Alpha V</u>! Ceti Alpha VI exploded six months after we were left here. The shock shifted the orbit of <u>this</u> planet and everything was laid waste. <u>Admiral</u> Kirk never bothered to check on our progress. It was only the fact of my genetically engineered intellect that enabled us to survive! On earth, two hundred years ago, I was a prince, with power over millions  now, like Prometheus I have been left by Admiral Kirk to digest my own entrails.
Captain Kirk was your host! You repaid his hospitality by trying to steal his ship and murder him.
And I'll wager he never told you about his shipmate, the beautiful and courageous Lieutenant McGiver, who gave up everything to join me in exile. OUT OF LOVE. And see how <u>Admiral Kirk</u> requited her devotion  She's dead as earth!
Khan, listen to me! Captain Kirk was only doing his duty! You 
There is some pain at first, I am told, and then the effects are quite benign  until the end. That was what I learned from watching my wife.
Beyond what I told you, sir, it is classified information.
Umm. And would Admiral Kirk have access to such information?
I would think so, sir. He's on the Fleet General Staff.
Then to whom do you report directly regarding Genesis?
To Doctor Marcus, the civilian director of the experiments on Space Laboratory Regula I.
I see. Helmsman?
Well done, Commander.
You realize, sir, that they will attempt to contact Admiral Kirk and confirm the order.
Don't tell me you've got something.
We've picked up a minor energy flux reading on one dyno scanner.
Damn! Are you sure? Maybe the scanner's out of adjustment 
I suppose it <u>could</u> be a particle of preanimate matter caught in the matrix...
All right, let's get on the Commpic to Doctor Marcus. Maybe it's something we can transplant.
You know what she'll say...
Are you sure these are the coordinates?
Captain, this is the garden spot of Ceti Alpha VI 
I can hardly see 
You're crazy  !
I saw it  !
There's an airlock.
I told you! I told you I saw a 
Ssssh!
<u>Botany Bay</u>  oh no!
What's the matter  ?
But the child 
Never mind! Hurry!
A criminal, Captain  a product of the late 20th Century genetic engineering 
What do you want with us? I demand 
He left us. We were no longer of use. SAAVIK Where is the Reliant crew? Dead?
Marooned on Ceti Alpha V. He's completely mad, Admiral. He blames you for the death of his wife...
How can you let them pull that stuff on you? They're just lazy.
And bored. I know. But maybe it IS something they can...
Come on, Mother, that's just the military mentality. Never put off tomorrow what you can put off today. If there's one atom of life...
I know, I know...
Well, don't have kittens. Genesis is going to work. They'll remember you in a wreath with Newton, Einstein, Surak...
Thanks a lot. No respect from my offspring 
Par for the course... you teaming up with me for bridge after dinner?
Maybe...
Every time we have dealings with Starfleet, I get nervous. We're dealing with something that COULD be perverted into a dreadful weapon. Remember that overgrown boy scout you used to hang out with? That's exactly the 
Does that about do it?
I don't think there's another piece of information we could squeeze into the memory banks. Next time, we'll design a bigger one.
Who 
Will you please be quiet! We must have order here. This has to be some sort of mistake.
Mistake? We're all alone here. They waited until everyone was on shiftleave to do this. Reliant is supposed to be at our disposal, not viceversa.
I've tried to warn you. Scientists are always pawns of the military 
Starfleet has kept the peace for a hundred years, I cannot and will not subscribe to your interpretation of this event.
David 
Mother, go back!
Jim 
Go back. I'm going to kill him.
You do that and you'll have murdered your father.
So are we, it looks like.
I don't understand. Who's responsible for all this? Who is Khan?
This? It took the Starfleet corps of engineers ten months in space suits to tunnel out all this. What we did in there  we did in a day. David, why don't you show Dr. McCoy and the Lieutenant our idea of food.
But we can't just sit here  !
David. Please.
This is just to give us something to do, isn't it? Come on.
Jim... read me? Can you read me?
Message breaking up, Carol. What's wrong? What's wrong?
... Can't read you... repeat...
Repeat... what's wrong? What's wrong?
... taking Genesis away from us...
Taking Genesis? Who? Who is taking Genesis?
... see you but can't hear. Did you... order...?
What order? Who's taking Genesis?
... Please help us, Jim... won't let them have... without proper... repeat... on whose authority...
Carol!
Jim please 
Wait 
Stage One of our experiments was conducted in the labora tory. Stage Two of the series will be attempted in a lifeless underground; Stage Three will involve the process on a plane tary scale. What follows is a computer projected simulation of Stage Three. Please watch closely.
David was right, wasn't he? It's just to keep them busy.
Why? Why didn't you tell me?
How can you ask me that? Were we together? Where we going to be? You had your world and I had mine. I wanted him in mine, not chasing through the universe with his father.
You did this  in a day?!
The matrix formed in a day. The life forms grew later  at a wildly accelerated rate. Can I cook or can't I?
It is a far far better thing I do than I have ever done before... a far better resting place I go to than I have ever known...
Is that a poem?
Something Spock was trying to tell me. On my birthday.
... come in, please. This is Reliant calling Regula I. Repeat. This is USS Reliant 
Commander, we are receiving. This is Regula I. Go ahead.
Dr. Marcus... good. We're en route to you and should be there in three days.
En route? Why? We weren't expecting you for another three months. Has something happened? <u>Has something happened</u>? Do you read us?
All went well. Nothing has happened. Ceti Alpha VI has checked out.
I still don't under 
We have received new orders. Upon our arrival at Regula I, all materials of Project Genesis will be transferred to this ship for immediate testing at Ceti Alpha VI.
<u>Will you please be quiet</u>! Commander Chekov, this is completely irregular. Who gave the order you are quoting? Who gave the order?
The order comes from Starfleet command, Dr. Marcus, direct from the General Staff.
But Genesis is a civilian project, under my control 
I have my orders.
This is completely improper, Commander Chekov. I have no intention of allowing Reliant or any other unauthorized personnel access to our work or materials.
I'm sorry you feel that way, Doctor. Admiral Kirk's orders are confirmed. Please prepare to deliver Genesis to us upon our arrival. Reliant out.
Physician, heal thyself.
That's all you have to say?
I'm not a drama critic.
Wouldn't it be easier to put an experienced crew back on the ship?
They'll learn. Galloping about the cosmos is a game for the young, doctor.
Bless me, doctor; and what beams you into this neck of the woods?
'Beware Romulans bearing gifts.' Happy Birthday...
Romulan Ale! Bones, you know this stuff is illegal 
I only use it for medicinal purposes. Don't be a pring...
Twentytwo, eightythree...
Takes the stuff a while to ferment. Gimme.
I'm almost afraid to. What did you bring me, contraband Klingon 
More antiques for your collection  Cheers!
Cheers. Bones, these are... charming.
Four hundred years old. You don't find many with the lens still intact.
Uh  what are they?
For your eyes. For most patients of your age, I generally administer Retlax Five to restore flexibility of the lens.
But I'm allergic to Retlax.
Exactly. Happy birthday.
Slide them down your nose. Now look at me over the top. And you read printed matter through the bottom.
Amazing! I don't know what to say 
Say thank you.
Thank you.
Damn it, Jim, what the hell's the matter? Other people have birthdays. Why're we treating yours like a funeral?
Bones, I don't want to be lectured.
What DO you want? Damn it, why isn't there a girl here? You know this has nothing to do with age. This is about you flying a goddamn computer console when you wanna be out hopping Galaxies.
Spare me your notions of poetry, please. We all have our assigned duties and...
Bull. You're hiding  hiding behind the rules and regulations 
And who am I hiding from?
From yourself, Admiral.
Don't mince words, Bones; tell me what you really think.
I'm your doctor and I'm your friend, Jim. Get back your command. Get it back before you really do grow old. Before you turn into part of this collection.
Shore leave, Admiral.
Ah.
What about the rest of the inspection, Admiral?
The inspection will continue once we're underway, Doctor.
It never rains but when it pours 
As a physician you of all people should appreciate the danger of reopening old wounds.
I've got the sick bay ready. Will someone please tell me what is going on?
Computer. Request security procedure and access to Project Genesis Summary.
Doctors lose patients sometimes. Damn. I'm <u>still</u> in the dark: How'd he know about Genesis?
At the moment that question takes a back seat to preventing him from laying his hands on it. You said it yourself; we're talking about a bang that would rearrange the universe...
There may still be time... you gave as good as you got.
I got beat. We're only alive because I knew something about these ships that he didn't.
Khan could be down there!
He's BEEN there and hasn't found what he wants. Can you spare someone? There may be people hurt.
I can spare me...
They even killed the galley chief.
This one looks like a Steward. They're not warm, but rigor hasn't set in. This didn't happen all that long ago, Jim.
Go? <u>Where</u> are we going?
Where <u>they</u> went. Saavik.
But what if they went  nowhere?
Then this will be your big chance to get away from it all.
Do you have anything to eat? I don't know about anyone else, but I'm starved.
How can you think of food at a time like this?
Our first order of business is survival.
Now that's what I call a meal.
It's like the Garden of Eden...
Lieutenant, you are looking at the only Starfleet cadet who ever beat the nowin scenario 
And almost got tossed out of the Academy...
Until now.
We each face death every day we're alive, Saavik.
Hours instead of days, Saavik; now we have minutes instead of hours 
I'm taking this bunch to sick bay.
You okay, Jim? How do you feel?
Young. I feel young, Doctor.
But dear Lord, are we intelligent enough to  Suppose, this thing were used where life already exists?
It would destroy such life in favor of its new matrix 
It's new  have you any idea what you're saying?
I was not attempting to evaluate its moral implications, Doctor. As a matter of cosmic history, it has always been easier to destroy than to create 
Not anymore! Now you can do both at the same time! According to myth, the earth was created in six days. Watch out: here comes Genesis; we'll do it for you in six minutes 
I don't dispute that in the wrong hands 
Would you like to tell me whose are the <u>right</u> hands, my coldblooded friend? Are you in favor of these experiments?
Are you out of your Vulcan mind? No human can tolerate the radiation loose in there!
But, as you are so fond of observing, Doctor, I'm not human.
You're not going in there  !
I'm afraid I can't stop to discuss this logically 
You amaze me, Commander.
How is that...?
A twenty year space veteran, yet you ask for the worst duty station in town. I mean, look at this place: the hind end of space.
Peace and quiet appeals to me, Lieutenant.
Well, maybe that's okay for someone like you whose career is winding down. But me: I need some challenge in my life. Some adventure... Even just a surprise or two.
You know what they say, Lieutenant. Careful what you wish for: you may get it.
Commander, these are some of the most famous people in Starfleet! Admiral Kirk, my God!
Good for you, Lieutenant.
But it's damn irregular. No destination orders, no encoded i.d...
All true.
Well  what are we going to do about it?!
I am going to do nothing about it. <u>You</u> are going to sit in the closet.
The <u>closet</u>?! Have you lost all sense of reality?
This isn't reality. This is fantasy.
I'll be in my quarters. Execute course to the Federation Boundary.
Yes, my lord!
Range: 3000 Kellicams.
Steady. Continue on impulse power.
Firing range, sir.
KRUGE +++$+++
1,000 Kellicams, closing!
Wait!... Wait...
500 Kellicams!
KRUGE +++$+++
My Lord, enemy commander wishes a truce to confer.
Put him on screen! Study him well.
My Lord... what are your orders?
I underestimated him... He did the one thing I didn't anticipate ... He destroyed himself...
Sir, may I 
Killing his son was <U>stupid</U>! It made Kirk willing to die.
We still have the prisoners, sir. Perhaps their information 
They are useless! It was Kirk I needed. And I let him slip away.
But surely, our mission has not failed  ?
Our mission is over. I have failed... A human has been bolder and more ruthless than I... That  is the real dishonor.
So! Speak!
Great power... to control... dominate... destroy. If it works.
Share this with no one.
Understood, my lord.
We are going to this "planet." Even as our emissaries negotiate for "peace" with the Federation, we will <U>act</U> for the preservation of our race! We will seize the secret of this weapon. The secret of ultimate power!
Success, my lord.
Station!
Sir, may I suggest 
Say the wrong thing, Torg, and I will kill you too!
I only meant, my lord, that if it's prisoners you want  There are life signs on the planet. Perhaps the very scientists you seek.
I ordered no interruptions.
But sir! Federation Starship approaching.
We are cloaked. Enemy closing on impulse power. Range, 5,000 Kellicams.
Good. This is the turn of luck I have been waiting for.
Why haven't they finished us?... They outgun me ten to one; they have four hundred in crew to my handful, yet they sit there.
Perhaps they wish to take you prisoner.
They know we would die first.
How can you tell that?
I trust my instincts. Admiral Kirk. This is your opponent speaking.
I give two minutes. For you, and your gallant crew. Take every last man: form a boarding party, armed heavily!
They outnumber us, my Lord 
<U>We are Klingons</U>! Once you control the ship, I will transfer my flag there. And we will take Genesis from their own memory banks!
Ambassador, I  I had no idea you were here... I think you know my crew...
I will speak with you alone, Kirk.
Sarek... I would have come to Vulcan... to express my deepest sympathies...
Spare me your human platitudes, Kirk. I have been to your Government. I have seen the Genesis information, and your own report.
Then you know how bravely your son met his death.
"Met his death"? How could you, his friend, have assumed that? Why did you leave him on Genesis! Spock trusted you  and you denied him his future!
I  saw no future 
You missed the point, then and now... Only his body was "in death," Kirk! And you were the last one to be with him.
Yes, I was...
Then you must know that you should have come with him to Vulcan.
But  why?
Because he asked you to! He entrusted you with his very essence  with everything was not of the body. He asked you to bring him to us  and to bring that which he gave you: his Katra. His living spirit.
Sir. Your son meant more to me than you can know. I'd have given my life if it would have saved his. You must believe me when I tell you that he made no request of me!
He would not have spoken of it openly.
Then, how 
Kirk, I must have your thoughts. May I join your mind?
Of course...!
... He spoke of your friendship.
Yes...
He asked you not to grieve...
... Yes...
... The needs of the many outweigh...
... The needs of the few...
... Or the one.
... Spock...
I have been... and always shall be... your friend. Live long... and prosper!
... No...! ` Kirk, bathed with sweat, suddenly shudders in pain. Sarek opens his eyes, removes his hands. He touches Kirk with gentleness as Jim recovers, opens his eyes.
Forgive me. It is not here. I assumed he had mindmelded with you. It is the Vulcan way when the body's end is near.
But he couldn't touch me...! We were separated!
I see... and I understand. Then everything that he was... Everything that he knew... is lost. And when I return home emptyhanded, many shall mourn.
Please wait!... Surely he would have found a way! If there was so much at stake  Spock would have found a way!
Yes... But  how...?
Sarek!... What if he melded with someone else?!
Bones!...
One alive, one not. Yet both in pain.
What must I do?
You must bring them to Mount Selaya  on Vulcan. Only there is the passage possible. Only there can both find peace...
What you ask is difficult.
You will find a way, Kirk. If you honor them both, you <U>must</U>.
What about Spock?
I am not sure. Only time will answer. Kirk. I thank you. What you have done is 
What I have done, I had to do.
But at what cost? Your ship... Your son.
If I hadn't tried, the cost would have been my soul.
I say again: Grissom, this is Enterprise. Admiral Kirk calling Captain Esteban or Lieutenant Saavik. Come in!
Report status!
KRUGE +++$+++
Torpedoes coming in  !
Do not lecture me about treaty violations. The Federation, in creating an ultimate weapon, has become a gang of Intergalactic criminals. It is not I who will surrender, it is you. On the planet below, I have three prisoners from the team who developed your doomsday weapon. If you do not surrender immediately, I will execute them, one at a time, as enemies of galactic peace.
Who is this?! How dare you 
Who I am is not important. That I have them is. I will let you speak to them.
David?... David!
Admiral, your young friend is mistaken. I meant what I said. And now, to show my intentions are sincere... I am going to kill one of the prisoners.
Wait! Give me a chance 
KRUGE +++$+++
There are two more prisoners, Admiral. Do you want them killed too? Surrender your vessel!
All right, damn you! All right! Give me a minute to inform my crew.
Commander, Klingon vessel. Stand by to board this ship on my next signal.
No tricks, Kirk. You have one minute.
No tricks. I'm looking forward to meeting you. Kirk out.
Maltz. Prisoners are at beam coordinates. Standby...
You should take the Vulcan, too.
No.
But, why?
Because you wish it.
Genesis, I want it.
Beam the Vulcan up  And we talk.
Give me what I want  and I'll consider it...
You fool  look around you! This planet is destroying itself!
Yes. Exhilarating, isn't it!
If we don't help each other, we'll all die here!
Perfect! That's the way it shall be!... <U>Give me Genesis</U>!
Give me your hand and we both live.
KRUGE +++$+++
Don't be a fool  give me your hand!
Welcome aboard, Admiral.
Welcome home, Jim.
Where's Doctor McCoy?
Indisposed, sir.
Ah, too bad... Well... You have all done remarkable service under the most  difficult of conditions. You'll be receiving Starfleet's highest commendations, and more importantly, extended shore leaves.
Admiral, I don't understand. The Enterprise 
Jim, the Enterprise is twenty years old. We think her day is over...
But, we had requested  we were hoping to take her back to Genesis...
Genesis?! Whatever for?
Why  a natural desire to help finish the work we began!
That's out of the question. No one is going to Genesis!
May I ask why...?
Jim, in your absence, Genesis has become a galactic controversy... Until the Federation Council makes policy, you are all under orders not to discuss with anyone your knowledge of Genesis... Consider it a quarantined planet. And a forbidden subject.
Jim... You are my best officer and if I had a best friend, you'd be that too. But I am Commander, Starfleet, so I don't break rules!
Don't quote rules, Harry! We're talking about loyalty. And sacrifice. One man who died for us, another who has deep emotional damage 
Now wait a minute! This business about Spock and McCoy... Honestly, I have never understood Vulcan mysticism  I'm sorry! But part of me doesn't want you to make a fool of yourself... Understand?
Harry, you don't have to believe! I'm not even sure I believe. But if there's even a chance that Spock has an eternal soul  then that is my responsibility.
Yours...?!
As surely as if it were my own! Harry, give me back the Enterprise! With Scotty's help...
No, Jim! Enterprise would never stand the pounding.
Then I'll find a ship  I'll hire a ship.
Out of the question! The Council has ordered that no one but the science team goes to Genesis!
Then let me speak to the Council! Harry, <U>please</U>! I can <U>make</U> them understand!!
Yes... I hear you. I just had to try.
Of course... Now take my suggestion, enjoy your leave  and let all this tension blow away.
You're right. Thanks for the drink.
Any time.
Uhura, any response from Starfleet on our Project Genesis inquiries?
No, sir, no response.
Hmm.. Very odd. Scotty. Progress report?
Standby automatic approach system ... Advise approach control.
Approach control... this is Enterprise. Ready for docking maneuver.
Would you look at that?
My friends, the great experiment: Excelsior, ready for trial runs...
How is Doctor McCoy, sir?
That's the good news. He's home in bed, full of tranquilizers, and he promised me he'd <U>stay</U> there... They say it's exhaustion... We'll see.
Gentlemen. Good evening.
Good evening, Commander. Everything ready?
Yes, Admiral. Step into my parlor.
Will you be able to handle that...?
Oh, I'll have "Mr. Adventure" eating out of my hand. And I'll see you at the rendezvous. All my hopes.
On course, Admiral. Estimating Spacedock in two point one hours.
Very well. Mr. Chekov, I need preapproach scan... Take the science station, please.
... Admiral, what's going to happen to Enterprise?
She's to be decommissioned.
The word, sir?
The word is no. I am therefore going anyway.
Count on our help, sir.
I'll need it, Sulu.
... We have cleared Spacedoors.
FULL IMPULSE POWER!
Warp Speed, Mr. Sulu...
Aye, sir, Warp Speed...
Excelsior, the great experiment, is adrift in space.
Mr. Scott: as good as your word.
Estimating Genesis 2.9 hours, present speed.
Can we hold speed, Mr. Scott?
We are secured from Warp Speed... Now entering Genesis Sector of Mutara Quadrant.
What about Grissom, Mr. Chekov?
See! That shimmering area.
Yes, sir. It's getting larger as we close in.
That distortion is closing rapidly... Opinion, Sulu?
I think it's an energy form, sir...
Yes. Enough energy to hide a ship, wouldn't you say?
... A cloaking device?
Red alert, Mr. Scott.
Klingon Bird of Prey, sir! She's arming torpedoes...!
Fire, Mr. Scott!
Mr. Sulu, what is the crew complement of a Bird of Prey?
About a dozen officers and men.
With some on the planet...
Sir, planet core readings unstable... Changing rapidly...
What about surface life signs...?
Close... There 
Come on!
If I read this right, sir, we have full power.
Go, Sulu!
We are clear and free to navigate.
Best speed to Vulcan. Mr. Chekov, take the prisoners below.
The planet Vulcan. In hailing distance, sir.
Saavik. Send to Ambassador Sarek. Tell him we're coming in.
Mr. Sulu, you're on manual.
It's been a while, sir. Here we go... Retrothrusters!
I know you... Do I not?
Yes. And I know you.
My father says you have been my friend... You came back for me.
You would have done the same for me.
Why would you do this...?
Because... the needs of the one outweighed the needs of the many.
Yes, yes, Spock...
The ship... Out of danger...?
You saved the ship, Spock. You saved us all. Don't you remember?!
Admiral, this is Lieutenant Saavik.
Saavik... Is... David with you?
Yes, he is. And someone else. Vulcan scientist of your acquaintance.
This Vulcan  is he alive?
He is not himself  but he lives. He is subject to rapid aging  like this unstable planet.
What happened...?
He gave his life to save us. That is all I know.
Is there <U>anything</U> we can do?!
Only one thing, Sir... Get him off this planet... His aging is part of what's going on around us...
The Genesis planet is gone.
Goodbye, David.
Yes, Admiral. But that may not be possible.
What? What are you saying?
The Katra ritual is meant to deposit Spock's consciousness in the Hall of Ancient Thought  not in his body.
But we have Spock alive! That's more than we bargained for!
Or less. What you describe is called Fal Tor Pan  the refusion. It is very dangerous. The elders may not choose to attempt it.
And if they don't.? What will Happen to Spock?
. He will remain always as he is.
My God...
Much is at stake...
I'm almost done, sir. You'll be fully automated by the time we dock.
Your timing is excellent, Mr. Scott. You've fixed the barn door after the horse has come home. How much refit time till we can take her out again?
Eight weeks, sir. But you don't have eight weeks so I'll do it for ya in two.
Mr. Scott. Have you always multiplied your repair estimates by a factor of four?
Certainly, sir. How else can I keep my reputation as a miracle worker?
Your reputation is secure, Scotty. Mr. Sulu, take the con. I'll be in my quarters.
Mr. Scott...
I'm sorry, sir, but as far as I'm concerned, there's nothin' needed for space travel that this old girl doesn't already have.
Come, come, Scotty. Young minds. Fresh ideas. Be tolerant.
As promised, she's all yours, sir. All systems automated and ready. A chimpanzee and two trainees could run her.
Thank you, Mr. Scott. I'll try not to take that personally. My friends... I can't ask you to go any further. Dr. McCoy and I have to do this. The rest of you do not.
Mr. Scott?
I'd be grateful, Admiral, if you'd give the word.
Gentlemen... may the wind be at our backs. Stations please!
Steady... Steady... All right, Mr. Scott.
Sir...?
The <u>doors</u>, Mr. Scott!
Aye, sir, she's got her second wind now.
Scan for vessels in pursuit!
Mr. Scott, all power to the weapons systems 
Aye, sir!
Mr. Scott: two photon torpedoes at the ready. Sight on the center of the mass.
Aye, sir!
Good shooting, Scotty.
Aye, those two hits should stop a horse, let alone a bird.
Precautionary, Mr. Chekov. Shields up...
I'm all right  stand by to return fire! Mr. Scott, transfer power to the phaser banks 
Oh, God, sir, I dinna think so...
What's wrong?
They've knocked out the damn automation center. I've got no control over anything!
How many more?
Just him, sir!
Bones, help Spock! Everyone else, find a station!
If equipment is functioning properly, indications are  an animal life form.
You said there wouldn't be any.
Captain... the logical alternative is obvious... beaming down to the surface is permitted...
"... If the Captain decides that the mission is vital and reasonably free of danger." I know the book, Saavik.
Grissom to landing party. We have you approaching radioactive indications. Do you concur?
Affirmative, Captain. Our readings are well below danger level.
Very well. Exercise caution, Lieutenant. This landing is Captain's discretion and I'm the one who's out on a limb.
I'll try to remember that, Captain.
Captain, this is Saavik. We have strong life sign readings bearing zeroonefive relative, and we are proceeding to investigate.
We concur, Saavik. And Saavik... be advised we are reading a severe and unnatural age curve on the planet. I'm getting nervous...
Do you have an explanation?
Captain, this is Saavik. Come in, please...
Yes, Saavik, go ahead...
Ah, Saavik, that's, ah, extroadinary. What would you, ah, like to do next?
Request permission to beam aboard immediately.
Saavik... Does Dr. Marcus think there could be  any chance of  ah  radioactive contamination?
None that I can detect, sir.
Well, all the same, I'm going to advise Starfleet and get instructions.
I'm sure Starfleet would approve, sir.
I know, but  let's do it by the book. Stand by on this channel. Go.
Captain, what's happening?!
We are under attack! Stand by for evasive  stand by for 
This is where the fun begins, Saavik!
Like your father... so human. All units functional, recorders are on... Scanning sector one. Foliage in fully developed state of growth. Temperature, twenty two point two Celsius.
Sector two... Indicating desert terrain. Minimal vegetation, temperature thirtynine point four.
Sector three... Subtropical vegetation... Temperature  Temperature decreasing rapidly 
It's snow. Snow in the same sector. Fantastic!
... Fascinating.
All the varieties of land and weather known to Earth within a few hours walk!
You must be very proud of what you and your mother have created.
It's a little early to celebrate.
Same sector. Metallic mass.
Underground deposit?
Negative, on surface... A manufactured object.
There's only one thing it could be... Short range scan.
Approximately two meters long... Cylindrical in form...
A photon tube...!
New orbit commencing... Coming up on sector three...
Short range scan.
As before... Metallic mass... Verifying triminium photon tube... No new data.
Check for trace radiation. Infrared enhancement.
... Radiation residual... Level is minimal...
There <u>shouldn't</u> be any. Only plant forms were built into the Genesis matrix.
Cross referenced and verified. An unidentifiable life form reading.
Captain, please  we'll take the risk. We've <u>got</u> to find out what it is...
... Or <u>who</u>.
Saavik to Grissom. Request computer study of soil samples for geological aging.
I'll handle that later.
My readings indicate great instability.
We're not here to investigate geological aging, we're here to find life forms!
. .. Spock's tube...
David 
Well. There's your life form reading. These were microbes on the tube's surface. We shot them here from Enterprise. They were fruitful, and multiplied.
But... How could they have evolved so quickly...?
What is it?
Spock's burial robe.
Later. Let's go...
Grissom, your message acknowledged. Will advise... Out.
Saavik... My god, what happened to them?
It would seem that Grissom was destroyed by an enemy attack.
You mean, we're stranded down here?!
Logic indicates that is the case.
How can you be logical at a time like this?! We have to get thee hell off this planet!
That may be difficult...
Why don't you just call for <u>help</u>!
I have already made one transmission too many...
It's time for total truth between us. This planet is not what you intended, or hoped for, is it?
Not exactly.
Why?
I used protomatter in the Genesis matrix.
Protomatter. An unstable substance which every ethical scientist in the galaxy has denounced as dangerously unpredictable.
It was the only way to solve certain problems 
Did your collaborator know?
My mother knew nothing about it. That's why I asked her to leave Genesis in my hands.
So, like your father, you changed the rules...
If I hadn't, it might have been years  or never!
And how many have paid the price for your impatience? How many have died? How much damage have you done... And what is yet to come?
This planet is aging in surges.
And Spock with it. They are joined together.
The Genesis wave started a life clock ticking for him and the planet. But at the rate things are going now...
... How long?
Days... Maybe hours... Protomatter has made the situation unpredictable. I'm sorry.
It will be hardest on Spock. Soon he will feel the burning of his Vulcan blood.
I don't understand.
Pon Farr. Vulcan males must endure it every seventh year of their adult life.
I still don't...
Whoever they are, they're getting closer.
I'll go...
No!... I'll do it. Give me your phaser.
Hello, sir. It's David.
David... Sorry I'm late.
It's okay  I should have known you'd come... Saavik's right: this planet is unstable. It's going to destroy itself in a matter of hours.
David!... What went wrong?
I went wrong.
David, I don't understand...
I'm sorry, sir. Just don't surrender. Genesis doesn't work! I can't believe they'll kill us for it 
Could it be Spock's?
It has to be. Gravitational fields were in flux... It must have soft landed...!
In code to STARFLEET... Captain's Spock's tube located intact on Genesis surface. Will relay more data on subsequent orbits.
I don't believe it...
What is it?
Why don't we beam it up?
Oh no you don't! Regulations specifically state: "nothing shall be beamed aboard until danger of contamination has been eliminated." Can you guarantee that?
Not from here, no.
All right  get your gear. I'll put you down next time around.
Thank you... <u>Sir</u>!
Aye sir, coding now.
Dr. Marcus, it's your planet.
Do you wish to advise Starfleet, sir?
Wait a minute...! We don't know what we're talking about here...
Sir... Something's jamming our transmission. An energy surge.
Locate.
Surge from astern, sir. Aft quarter!
On screen.
Mr. Chekov  ?
An energy reading from 'C" deck  from inside Mr. Spock's quarters...
Mr. Chekov, I ordered Spock's quarters sealed!
Yes, sir, I sealed the room myself. Nevertheless  I am reading a life form there.
Will we get another ship?
I can't get an answer. Starfleet is up to its brass in galactic conference. No one has time for those who only stand... and wait.
Shall I alert Dr. McCoy?
Yes. He has a long journey ahead.
Unit two, this is One. The Kobayashi Maru has set sail for the promised land. Acknowledge.
Message acknowledged. All units will be informed.
Calm yourself, Bones.
Sir. Commander, Starfleet on emergency channel. He orders you to surrender this vessel.
No reply, Chekov... Continue on course...
Excelsior closing to 4,000 meters, sir.
Mr. Scott, we need everything you've got now.
You did great, Bones... Just great.
Sir, Starfleet calling Grissom again. A warning about us.
Response?
Nothing. As before.
What's Grissom up to?... Will they join us, or fire on us...? Chekov, break radio silence. Send my compliments to Captain Esteban.
Aye, sir.
Admiral, there is no response from the Grissom on any channel.
Keep trying, Chekov. At regular intervals.
Still no response, sir.
Bones... Can you give me a quadrant biscan?
I'd swear something was there sir, but I might have imagined it.
What did you see, Chekov?
For an instant... A scout class vessel.
Could be Grissom. Patch in the hailing frequency. U.S.S. Grissom, this is Enterprise calling. Come in, please.
Nothing on my scanner, sir.
Short range scan, Mr. Chekov... On screen, Mr. Sulu.
Sir, the shields... Non responsive.
Scotty...?
Steady... Steady, boys. Keep scanning... I thought you people were reliable... Where the hell is he!
He has been here for some time. I can feel his presence.
Don't give me your Klingon mumbo jumbo  there ain't another vessel in this whole damn quadrant.
Put me on the hailing frequency.
Sure  whatever games you wanna play.
What's going on? When do we get paid off...?
Soon, Captain... Quite soon.
Status!
All automates ready and functioning. Automatic moorings retracted. All speeds available through transwarp drive.
Incredible machine. Helmsman, onequarter impulse power.
Enterprise maintaining full impulse power...
And we are gaining... Stand by, tractor beam!
Tractor beam, aye!
If he tries to get away with Warp Drive, he's really in for a shock...
Transwarp at your command, Sir!
Execute!
The royal...studs?
You see the top yardarm, now look to the
It looks like we're too late.
There are no other ships in the system.
These blast patterns are consistent with Type III disruptors.
Well, that narrows it to Klingon, Breen or Romulan.
One of the dead Romulans had a tricorder. We analyzed its sensor logs and found they were scanning for signature particles of a compound called trilithium.
Trilithium?
An experimental compound the Romulans have been working on. In theory, a trilithiumbased explosive would be thousands of times more powerful than an antimatter weapon. But they never found a way to stabilize it.
Why were they looking for it on a Federation observatory? It doesn't make any sense.
Have Geordi and Data go over with the next Away Team. Tell them to scan the observatory for trilithium.
Aye, sir.
Sensor records show a solar probe was launched from the observatory a few moments ago.
The star's going to collapse in a matter of minutes.
I have spoken to the Klingon High Council, sir. They identified the Bird of Prey as belonging to the Duras sisters.
Lursa and B'Etor? This doesn't make any sense. A renowned stellar physicist somehow uses a trilithium probe to destroy a star, kidnaps Geordi and escapes with a pair of Klingon renegades. Why? What the hell's going on?
They have found a way to penetrate our shields.
Lock phasers and return fire!
It is a Class D12 Bird of Prey. They were retired from service because of defective plasma coils.
Plasma coils...is there any way we can use that to our advantage?
I do not see how. The plasma coil is part of their cloaking device.
As their cloak begins to engage, their shields will drop.
Right. And they'll be vulnerable for at least two seconds. Data,lock onto that plasma coil.
Worf, prepare a spread of photon torpedoes. We'll have to hit them the instant they begin to cloak.
Aye, sir.
We're only going to get one shot at this. Target their primary reactor. With any luck, their warp core should implode.
Doctor Soran?
Yes, yes, Captain. Thank you for coming.
Nothing for me. I understand there's something urgent you need to discuss with me.
Yes. I need to return to the observatory immediately. I must continue a critical experiment I was running on the Amargosa star.
Doctor, we're still conducting an investigation into the attack. Once we've completed our work, we'll be happy to allow you and your fellow scientists back aboard the observatory. Until then
The timing is very important on my experiment if it is not completed within the next twelve hours, years of research will be lost.
We're doing the best we can. Now if you'll excuse me...
You must think I'm quite the madman.
The thought had crossed my mind.
The only possible reason you're here is because you're not entirely confident you can shoot down my probe after all. So you've come to dissuade me from my horrific plan. Good luck.
I've spent eighty years looking for another way, Captain. This is the only one. Of course, you could always come with me. You fancy yourself an explorer. Here's a chance to explore something no human has ever experienced.
Not if it means killing over two hundred million people. I wonder, did your wife Leandra know that she married a man who was capable of mass murder?
We're all mortal, Soran. It's one of the truths of ou existence.
What if I told you I found a new truth?
The Nexus.
Time has no meaning there. The predator has no teeth.
Careful, Captain. That's a fifty gigawatt forcefield. I wouldn't want to see you get hurt.
Thank you.
Captain, are you all right?
Yes. Fine. If you'll excuse me.
Counselor. What can I do for you?
Actually, I'm here to see if there's anything I can do for you.
Well, I appreciate your concern, but I'd rather not discuss it right now, thank you.
I'm afraid I can't just leave it at that. The commanding officer of this ship is clearly distraught about something. As ship's counselor, it's my duty to
As ship's counselor, it's your duty to know not only when you're needed but also when you're not.
You can't fool an empath, Captain. I know exactly when I'm needed.
Well, with all due respect to your Betazoid senses, I prefer to be alone right now.
Very well. I suppose I could make out my weekly report to Starfleet Command without your input. "Admiral Lusby, regarding the unusual behavior of JeanLuc Picard: I find him increasingly irritable, remote and uncooperative. I recommend forced shore leave at a Starbase facility in order to"
All right, all right. You've made your point.
Captain, Im sorry. I know there were a lot of unresolved conflicts between you and your brother.
What I can't get out of my mind is the image of Rene my nephew. I just can't believe he's gone.
It's only natural to feel a heightened sense of tragedy when a child dies. But it goes deeper than that, doesn't it? I can sense that Rene meant a great deal to you.
In a way, he was as close as I ever came to having a child of my own.
Your family history is very important to you, isn't it?
Ever since I was a little boy, I remember hearing about the family line. The Picards that fought at Trafalgar, the Picards that settled the first Martian colony. When my brother married and had a son...
You felt it was no longer your responsibility to carry on the family line.
My brother had shouldered that burden, allowing me to pursue my own selfish needs.
There's nothing selfish about pursuing your own life, your own career.
Or perhaps they're on the surface.
Mr. Data, scan the planet for lifeforms.
Don't you think you're taking this a little too far, Number One?
When we went to ancient Rome for Deanna's promotion, we threw her to the lions, remember?
Well, now that we're all aboard=8A Number One, bring the ship before the wind. Let's see what's out there.
Aye, aye, sir. Take the wheel, Commander.
Imagine what it was like, Will. No engines, no computers, just the wind, the sea and the stars to guide you.
Bad food, brutal discipline. No women.
Sir?
Make it so.
There's still no indication of why they attacked the station?
We think they were looking for something they practically tore the place apart.
Hmm, Inform Starfleet Command. This could indicate a new Romulan threat in this sector.
You want me to contact Starfleet?
Is there a problem?
No, sir.
Thank you, Number One.
There is something else, Captain. One of the scientists, a Doctor Soran,has insisted on speaking with you. I told him you were busy, sir, but he said it was absolutely imperative that he speak with you right away.
Understood. That will be all.
Sir, is there anything wrong?
No. Thank you.
Report.
A quantum implosion has occurred within the Amargosa star. All nuclearfusion is breaking down.
How is that possible?
Maybe they're not out there.
They're just trying to decide whether a twenty yearold Klingon Bird of Prey is any match for the Federation flagship.
That's a pretty big margin of error.
Too big. How long until the ribbon arrives?
I always thought I'd have a crack at this chair one day.
You may still. Somehow I doubt this will be the last ship to carry the name Enterprise.
A remarkable piece of equipment, but a little inelegant, wouldn't you say? Have you ever considered a prosthesis that would make you look a little more...normal?
What's normal?
Normal is what everyone else is, and what you are not.
What do you want?
I don't want a science lecture. You were on that observatory looking for trilithium. Why?
I was ordered to by the Captain.
Let's try to move beyond the usual prisonerinterrogator banter, shall we? You have information and I need it. Did the Captain explain his orders to you? Did he say why you were searching for trilithium?
No.
What about Guinan? What has she told you about me?
Guinan? I don't know what you're talking about.
Oh, I forgot to tell you. While you were unconscious, I injected a nanoprobe into your bloodstream. It's been navigating your cardiovascular system, and right now I've attached it to your left ventricle. A little trick I picked up from the Borg.
Yeah, they're full of great ideas.
I just stopped your heart for five seconds. It felt like an eternity, didn't it? Did you know that you can stop the human heart for up to ten minutes before the onset of brain damage?
No, I didn't know that.
We learn something new about ourselves every day. Now. Maybe I didn't make myself clear. It is very important that you tell me exactly what Captain Picard knows.
I told you everything. You might as well just kill me right now.
Oh
I've warned ye about that back of yours. You should have a doctor take a look at it.
I'm not going Scotty, help me with this chute.
What do you mean, you're not going? We promised.
When I retired, I swore I'd never set foot on a starship again, and I meant it.
You know, Scotty, it amazes me.
And what would that be, sir?
Sulu. When did he find the time for a family?
It's like you always said if something's important enough, you make the time.
Their life signs are are phasing in and out of our spacetime continuum.
Phasing? To where?
The first thing you learn as captain is how to cheat death. Scotty?
There's just no way to disrupt a gravimetric field of this magnitude!
But I do have a theory...
I thought you might.
An antimatter discharge directly ahead=8A it might disrupt the field long enough for us to break away.
A photon torpedo?
Aye.
Load torpedo bays, prepare to fire on my command.
Captain, it may be possible to simulate a torpedo blast using a resonance burst from the main deflector dish.
Where are the deflector relays?
Keep her together until I get back.
I always do.
Kirk here.
Captain, I don't know how much longer I can hold her together!
Beautiful day, isn't it?
Yes, yes, it is.
This clock, I gave this clock to Bones.
I'm from what you would consider the future; the 24thcentury.
So you're telling me this is the 24thcentury, and I'm dead?
Not exactly. As I said, this is some kind of
Temporal nexus, yeah, I heard you. Something's missing.
You said history considers me dead. Who am I to argue with history?
You're a Starfleet officer and you have a duty to
I don't need to be lectured by you. I was out saving the galaxy when your grandfather was still in diapers. And frankly, I think the galaxy owes me one I was like you once so worried about duty and obligations that I couldn't see anything past this uniform. And in the end, what did it get me? Nothing. Not this time.
No, no, it's not. It's better.
Better?
This is my uncle's barn in Iowa.
Antonia?
She's not real either, is she? Nothing here is. Nothing here matters.
Captain of the Enterprise, huh?
That's right.
Close to retirement?
I hadn't planned on it.
How can I argue with the captain of the Enterprise? What was the name of that planet=8A Veridian III?
That's right.
I take it the odds are against us and the situation is grim?
You could say that.
Of course, if Spock were here, he'd say I was being an irrational, illogical human for wanting to go on a mission like that.
I'll find a way to contact the Enterprise. You're going to be all right.
Did we do it? Did we make a difference?
Yes. Thank you.
Least I could do for a captain of the Enterprise.
I'm Captain John Harriman. I'd like to welcome you all aboard.
It's our pleasure.
Well, may we have a look around?
Please, please.
Excuse me, gentlemen, if you'll take your seats.
Oh, of course.
Prepare to leave spacedock. Aft thrusters ahead one quarter, port and starboard at station keeping. Captain Kirk, I'd be honored if you would give the order to get underway.
No, no. Thank you.
Please, I insist.
We don't have a tractor beam.
You left spacedock without a tractor beam?
It won't be installed until Tuesday. Ensign Sulu, try generating a subspace field around the ships. That might break them free.
What about the gravimetric distortions? They'll tear us apart.
Risk is part of the game if you want to sit in that chair.
Do you remember him?
Oh yes. I remember everyone who was on the Lakul, every face. Even the ones who didn't make it.
Guinan. It's important that you tell me what you know. We think Soran's developed a weapon...a terrible weapon. It might give him enough power to
Soran doesn't care about power or weapons. All he cares about is getting back to the Nexus.
What's the "Nexus"?
That ribbon isn't just some random energy phenomenon travelling through space. It's a doorway. It leads to another place the Nexus. It doesn't exist in our universe and it doesn't play by the same rules either.
What happened to you?
I can't remember very much  what it looked like or how long I was there. But I do remember how it felt.
It took a long time, but eventually I learned to live with it. And I began to realize that my experience in the Nexus had changed me. I knew things about people, about events, about time.
Your "sixth sense" I've always wondered where it came from. And what about Soran?
Soran may still be obsessed with getting back. And if he is, he'll do anything to find that doorway again.
But why destroy a star? Thank you, Guinan.
Guinan, what's going on? Where am I?
You're in the Nexus.
This is the Nexus?
For you. This is where you wanted to be.
But I never had a wife, children, a home like this.
Enjoy them, JeanLuc.
Guinan, what are you doing here? I thought you were on the Enterprise.
I am on the Enterprise. I am also here. Think of me as an "echo" of the person you know. A part she left behind.
Left behind?
When the EnterpriseB beamed us off the Lakul, we were partially in the Nexus. The transporters locked on to us, but somehow everyone left a part of themselves behind.
Soran?
All of us.
Where is he now?
Wherever he wanted to be.
These are my children...my children.
Yeah. They're great, aren't they? You can go back and see them born, go forward and see your grandchildren. Time has no meaning here.
Guinan, can I leave the Nexus?
Why would you want to leave?
Can I?
Yes, where would you go?
I don't understand.
I told you, time has no meaning here. If you leave, you can go anywhere, any time.
I know exactly where I want to go, and when. Back to that mountaintop on Veridian III, before Soran put out the star. I have to stop him.
What makes you think things will be any different this time?
You're right. I'll need help. Guinan, will you come back with me? Together, we could
I can't leave. I'm already there, remember?
Can you locate them?
The ships are bearing at 310 mark 215. Distance: three light years.
Signal the closest starship. We're in no condition to mount a rescue. We don't even have a full crew aboard.
We're within visual range of the energy distortion, Captain.
On screen.
We're within range, sir.
Beam them directly to Sickbay.
Deck 15, section 21alpha.
I'll go. You have the Bridge.
You did it, Kirk! Damage report, Ensign.
There's some buckling on the starboard nacelle. We've also got a hull breach in the Engineering section. Emergency forcefields are in place and holding.
Sensors show five life signs aboard the station, Captain.
The station complement was nineteen.
Looks like you're stuck with emotions for a while. How do you feel?
I am quite...preoccupied with concern about Geordi.
We all are, Data. But we're going to get him back.
I hope so, sir.
Could we access the defective coil and trigger their cloak?
Perhaps. Yes! If we sent a lowlevel ionic pulse, it might reset the coil and engage the cloaking systems.
I have rerouted auxiliary power to the lateral thrusters attempting to level our descent.
All hands, brace for impact!
Is she still angry?
No, but I'd stay out of Sickbay for a while if I were you. I still don't know why you dropped her in the water.
I was attempting to get in the spirit of things. I thought it would be humorous.
Data, you're not thinking about using that thing are you?
It has occurred to me on several occasions. But I believe this may be the appropriate time.
Wait a minute. I thought you've always been afraid it would overload your neural net.
That is true. However, I believe my growth as an artificial lifeform has reached an impasse. For thirtyfour years I have endeavored to become more "human" to grow beyond my original programming. And yet I am still unable to grasp such a simple concept as humor. This emotion chip is the only answer.
But at the first sign of trouble, I'm going to deactivate it. Agreed?
Agreed.
Well?
I believe the beverage has provoked an emotional response.
Really? What do you feel?
I am uncertain. I have had little experience with emotions. I am unable to articulate the sensation.
I get it. I get it.
You get what?
What?
During the Farpoint mission. We were on the Bridge and you told a joke. That was the punchline.
The Farpoint mission? Data, that was seven years ago.
I know. I just got it. It was very funny.
Thanks.
I don't see a control panel, or an access port.
It appears to be a magnetically sealed.
Data, this isn't the time.
I am sorry, but I cannot stop myself. I think something is wrong
Data, are you all right?
I believe the emotional chip has overloaded my positronic relays.
We better get you back to the ship La Forge to Enterprise.
That's it, Bridge we're all out!
One minute to warp core breach.
According to our information, the ribbon is a conflux of temporal energy which travels through our galaxy every 39.1 years
When is it expected back?
Data?
Sorry, Captain. The ribbon has already entered the galaxy. It will pass through this sector in approximately thirtyone hours.
Guinan said Soran was trying to get back to the ribbon. If that's true, then there must be some connection with the Amargosa star.
The star's destruction has had numerous astrophysical effects within this sector. However, none of them appear to have a connection to the energy ribbon.
Give me a list of those effects. I want to know every single thing which has been altered or changed, no matter how insignificant.
It will take a few moments for the computer to compile the information.
Data, are you all right?
No, sir. I am finding it difficult to concentrate. I believe I am overwhelmed with feelings of remorse and regret concerning my actions on the observatory.
What do you mean?
I wanted to save Geordi. I tried. But I experienced something I did not expect. I believe it was fear.
Fear is a very difficult emotion to overcome. It's something we all have to learn to deal with.
But I did not deal with it, sir. I let it prevent me from helping my friend. Does that make me a coward?
No. And what you must try to avoid is becoming consumed by another emotion which I believe you're beginning to experience: guilt.
Guilt. It is a most unpleasant feeling.
According to our current information, the destruction of the Amargosa star has had the following effects in this sector: gamma emissions have increased by .05 percent, the starship Bozeman was forced to make a course correction, a research project on Gorik IV was halted due to increased neutrino particles, ambient magnetic fields have decreased by
Wait. The Bozeman,why did it change course?
The destruction of the Amargosa star has altered the gravitational forces throughout the sector. Any ship passing through this region will have to make a minor course correction.
This is its current position.
Can you project its course?
Courage is an emotion too, Data. Now, can you project the course of the ribbon?
I believe so.
Now, you said the gravitational forces in this sector have been altered, could that also affect the course of the ribbon?
I believe so.
He can't go to the ribbon, so he's trying to make the ribbon come to him. Data, is it going to pass near any MClass planets?
Yes, sir. There are two in the Veridian system.
That's where he's going.
It should be noted, sir, that the collapse of the Veridian star would produce a shock wave similar to the one we observed at Amargosa.
And destroy every planet in the system.
Are any of them inhabited?
Veridian III is uninhabited, but Veridian IV supports a preindustrial humanoid society.
Population?
Approximately two hundred thirty million.
"Lifeforms tiny little lifeforms. Where are the lifeforms"
Commander.
Sorry, sir. There is too much interference in the planet's ionosphere for an accurate reading.
Approximately fortyseven minutes, sir.
I have to find a way to get to Soran.
Actually, Captain, your precise target area was thirtyfive meters that way.
Thanks for pointing that out.
Tomorrow I want to make a trielliptical jump. That's where you jump out over Northern China and make three complete orbits before you start reentry.
Captain. Perhaps you have forgotten that tomorrow is the christening ceremony.
Captain=8A
I don't want to hear anymore about it. I'm not going, and that's final.
But that wasn't so long ago. It couldn't have been more than...
Twelve years, sir.
Yes, well, congratulations, Ensign. It wouldn't be the Enterprise without a Sulu at the helm.
Tohpakcha=8A
HoS qorDu.
The Captain would make a much more valuable hostage.
We'll consider it a prisoner exchange.
It's working.
Where is he?
I thought he was the Chief Engineer.
He is.
Then when is he going to Engineering?
Where is he now?
I don't know. He bathed, now he is roaming the ship. He must be the only Engineer in Starfleet who does not go to Engineering!
Target their Bridge.
Full disruptors.
From a chicken, bugwit.
A chicken?
Is it all right if we smell it?
Just don't drool on it.
That wouldn't be the cigarettes you took us for last night?
What was I going to do with them? I only smoke cigars.
You must have been some tail gunner! Go ahead, Cookie.
Come on, let's get that mail. Anything for Stanislaus Kuzawa?
Have a nice time over there?
Oh! Somebody was peeking!
So you're stuck with me, eh?
Maybe those Russian dames would take him.
You heard him.
Okay, Herr Preismaier, let's have the mail box.
You're not disposing of those Russian broads?
Tell you what to do. First, get yourself a hundred cigarettes for the Kraut guards. Then get yourself another face.
Hey, Schulz  as long as you're going to move somebody in  how about a couple of those Russian broads?
Russian women prisoners?
Just get us a couple with big Glockenspiels.
Ja! Ja! Droppen Sie dead!
Did I interrupt something, gentlemen?
Yeah. We were just passing out guns.
Always joking. Always making wisecrackers!
This is me in Cincinnati.
Who's the other wrestler? The one with the mustache?
That is my wife.
Look at all that meat. Isn't she the bitter end!
Give it back. You must not arouse yourselves.
All right, gentlemen! We will now all go outside for a little gymnastic and take some shovels and undig the tunnel which you digged.
Why don't we just plug up that tunnel  with the Kommandant on one end and you on the other.
It is not me. It is the orders. I am your friend. I am your best friend here.
Gentlemen, tomorrow morning the Geneva Man is coming to inspect the camp whether we are living up to the International Convention. I am sure he will find we are treating you very well. You must not run around in your underwear. And take off the wash. The Kommandant wants all the barracks to be spic and also span.
We'll put pink ribbons on the bedbugs.
The Kommandant also sends you clean blankets. He wants every man to have a new, clean blanket.
My grandmother's earmuffs.
Look at them, Lieutenant. Everybody is a clown! How do you expect to win the war with an army of clowns?
Good morning, Sefton.
Good morning, Schulz. And how's Mrs. Schulz? And all the little Schulzes?
Fine  fine!
No use, Schulz. You might as well come clean. Why don't you just tell 'em it's me. Because I'm really the illegitimate son of Hitler. And after the Germans win the war you'll make me the Gauleiter of Zinzinnati.
You Americans! You are the craziest people! That's why I like you! I wish I could invite you all to my house for a nice German Christmas!
Du lieber Gott! How do you look? You had a fight?
How would you like to give Frau Schulz a pair of silk stockings for Christmas?
You should go and see the doctor. Maybe I can  Silk stockings?
Here. Take them.
Wunderbar! Maybe they are too wunderbar for my wife. But there is a piano teacher in the village 
And how about three hundred cigarettes for yourself?
Three hundred cigarettes! What is it you want from me?
Who's the guy, Schulz?
What guy?
The one you work with. Who is he? How do you do it?
I do not want those cigarettes.
Yes, you do!
I'll make it five hundred!
No! No!
You'd better talk, Schulz, because I'm going to find out with you or without you. Because I won't let go for a second. Because they'll have to kill me to stop me. So talk!
Talk what? I do not know anything!
How many do you want? A thousand?
What's the matter with you? You want to be killed?
Not particularly.
Say, Schulz  you guys had machine gun practice last night?
Ach, terrible! Such foolish boys. Such nice boys. I'd better not talk about it. It makes me sick to my stomach.
Let us see. We have now two empty bunks here. Nummer einundsiebzig und Nummer dreiundsiebzig in Baracke vier.
Suppose you let those mattresses cool off a little  just out of decency?
Ja, ja, gewiss! It is only that we are cramped for space with new prisoners every day. Gentlemen! Outside! Please! Do you want me to have trouble with the Kommandant again!
Which one of us is the informer?
You are trying to say that an American would inform on other Americans?
Schulz, you're off your nut!
Give me the radio.
We have no radio.
All right, gentlemen, I will find it myself. Now let's see.
Nun? Was ist? Haben Sie's herausgefunden?
Ich weiss alles.
Wie hat er's gemacht?
Ganz einfach... Streichhoelzer... und eine Zigarette...
Now you've done it. You've given me nervous indigestion. Anything else bothering you, boys?
Just one little thing. How come you were so sure Manfredi and Johnson wouldn't get out of the forest?
I wasn't so sure. I just liked the odds.
And what's that crack supposed to mean?
They're lying dead in the mud out there and I'm trying to find out how come.
I'll tell you how come. The Barrack Chief gave them the green light. And you, our Security Officer, said it'd be safe. That's how come.
When the Krauts find that gadget they'll throw us all in the boob.
They know about that gadget. I'd worry more about the radio.
So was the radio private property. So was Manfredi and Johnson.
What about the radio?
Or how about a game of pinochle? No, you're not a pinochle man. You're a chess player. I haven't played since I was a kid. Let's see   a pawn moves this way, doesn't it? And a bishop this way? And the queen  every which way, doesn't it?
Suppose you just sit down and keep your mouth shut.
I went to school with a guy named Price. But that was in Boston. You're from Cleveland, aren't you.
Yes, I'm from Cleveland.
I thought that's what you said. You're from Cleveland. And you were with the Thirtysixth Bomb Group?
Thirtyfifth.
Three hundred and sixtyfifth Bomb Squadron? Out of Chelveston?
Are you questioning me?
Just getting acquainted. Trying to make one friend in this barracks.
Don't bother, Sefton. I don't like you. I never did and I never will.
A lot of people say that and the first thing you know is they get married and live happily ever after. I wonder what they're trying to pull out there?
Ach so!
What did you say?
Amazing, what you can do with five thousand pingpong balls, isn't it?
Stop that, will you! Those idiots! So they sprang Dunbar! So what good is it? He's still in the compound, isn't he? How long can he last? Where can they hide him?
Where. Up Joey's ocarina. Didn't you know?
Are we going to stand around here and listen to him until the Germans find out where Dunbar is?
The Germans know where Dunbar is.
No. I don't sprechen sie deutsch.
Maybe just one word? Kaput? Because you're kaput, Price.
Will you get this guy out of my hair so I can go?
Go where? To the Kommandant's office and tell him where Dunbar is?
I'll kill you for that!
Shut up! Security Officer, eh? Screening everybody, only who screened you? Great American hero. From Cleveland, Ohio! Enlisted right after Pearl Harbor! When was Pearl Harbor, Price? Or, don't you know?
December seventh, fortyone.
What time?
Six o'clock. I was having dinner.
Six o'clock in Berlin. They were having lunch in Cleveland. Am I boring you, boys?
The what?
The one you took out of the corner of your bunk and put in this pocket.
Today's Camp News! Father Murray announces that due to local regulations the Christmas midnight Mass will be held at seven in the morning!
You can tell Father Murray to 
At ease! He also says, quote: All you sack rats better show up for the services and no bull from anybody. Unquote. At ease! Monday afternoon a sailboat race will be held at the cesspool. See Oscar Rudolph of Barrack 7 if you want to enter a yacht. Next: Jack Cushingham and Larry Blake will play Frank deNotta and Mike Cohen for the pinochle championship of the camp.
Pirelli. Coleman. Agnew. Shapiro.
Nothing for Kuzawa?
Shapiro. Shapiro.
Just what makes you so popular?
Yeah?
Give this to Joey, will you?
Oh.
Stay out of it, Sefton.
Just one question. Did you calculate the risk?
Anybody call?
Go on, Sefton  butt out!
If I were you, Sefton, I'd eat that egg some place else. Like for instance under the barrack.
A little weak today.
If you can't get the BBC, how about getting Guy Lombardo?
Are we boring you?
What's the big idea, Sefton? Take that telescope out of here.
Says who?
Says me.
You take it out. Only you're going to have a riot on your hands.
Every time the men get Red Cross packages you have to think up an angle to rob them.
Lay off, Sefton.
With your mother's pull, how come you're not a chicken colonel by now?
Lay off, I said  if you don't want your head handed to you.
What's the matter, boys? Is my slip showing?
I'll say it is. You spilled a little borscht on it.
Borscht?
What happened, Cookie? Who did it?
We did it.
There better not be anything missing. This is private property.
What's it add up to you, Sefton?
It adds up that you got yourselves the wrong guy. Because I'm telling you. The Krauts wouldn't plant two stoolies in one barrack. And whatever you do to me you're going to have to do all over again when you find the right guy.
You heard that, Sefton?
Sure I heard it. I still got one good ear.
You'll stay in this barracks and not a peep out of you.
Okay, then. Put a guard on me. I want you to put a guard on me. Because if anything goes wrong out there, this time you won't have a patsy. Right?
Right.
So who stays with me? Maybe Joey? No  not Joey. Wouldn't you feel safer with Security on the job?
Okay, Price. You stay.
Two packs of cigarettes say Dunbar never gets out of the compound.
You starting that again?
Anybody cover?
Hurry up on that trap. What are you trying to do, Sefton? Gum up the works?
That's right. Or would you rather see Dunbar lying out there in the mud tomorrow morning like Manfredi and Johnson?
Look, Sefton, I had my hands full so they wouldn't tear you apart 
I called it the last time, didn't I?
How do they know?
You told them, Hoffy.
Who did?
You did!
You off your rocker?
Uhhuh. Fell right on my head. Sprechen sie deutsch?
Go on.
He's a Nazi, Price is. For all I know, his name is Preismaier or Preissinger. Sure, he lived in Cleveland, but when the war broke out he came back to the Fatherland like a good little Bundist. He spoke our lingo so they put him through spy school, gave him phony dogtags 
What are we going to do with him?
Don't you know? Because I got my own ideas. Let's have that civilian stuff.
You taking Dunbar?
You betcha. There ought to be some reward money from Mama. Say ten thousand bucks worth.
I told you boys I'm no escape artist, but for the first time, I like the odds. Because now I got me a decoy.
What's the decoy?
Price. When I go I want you to give me five minutes. Exactly five minutes to get Dunbar out of that water tank. Then you throw Price out into the compound, nice and loud. He'll draw every light from every goon tower. It's our only chance to cut through. What do you say, Barracks' Chief?
Shoot!
You could use a new one yourself.
Let's synchronize the watches. Eleven fortytwo, sharp.
Check.
Los, los. Dummkopf!
Lay off, Schulz. He's got a sickness. He's krank.
Sometimes I think he is fooling us with that crazy business.
Yeah? How would you like to see the guts of nine pals splattered all over your plane? C'mon Joey  don't be afraid.
We know! We got them last year. Five minutes after the Geneva Man was gone, the blankets were gone.
One more thing, gentlemen. The Kommandant told me to pick up the radio.
What radio?
The one you are hiding in the barrack, don't you know? The one your friend without the leg is smuggling all over the compound.
You must get out. For your own good, you must get out.
Come on, everybody! Let's go!
Look  if you don't like the way I'm handling this job 
Kill it, Duke. It's got us all spinning.
Don't worry. We'll take care of it.
Take some men and get the antenna going. Let's see if we can catch the BBC.
You're wasting your time, Duke. Outside, everybody! Let's get it over with.
Wait a second, Hoffy. Schulz says he's our best friend. Maybe he can give us a little hint.
Not yet.
Answer the question. How do you rate all those privileges?
Cut the horseplay, Harry. What's the matter with you guys?
And don't blame me if you all wind up in the cooler.
It's not Schulz. It's that stoolie. Whoever he is, he's sure batting a thousand.
The guy I want to talk to is Sefton. Where's Sefton? You haven't seen Sefton, have you?
What are you going to do?
I want everybody out of here. We'll need a lot of commotion on the compound.
I don't know what your scheme is, but it sounds crazy.
Maybe it's crazy, but it's better than having Dunbar dead.
Just as you say, Hoffy. But wouldn't it be smarter if I went out and kept Schulz tied up?
Good.
What about Schulz?
We'll take care of Schulz. Come on.
No volunteers, Price. I said we're all in on it.
You have elected me Security. The way things have been going in this Barracks, I guess I've done a poor job and I want to make up for it. Is that asking too much?
We've all done a poor job of it.
I still say this is my tag. Any objections, Hoffy?
Any objections, men?
What do you say, Hoffy. We'll hit the air raid trenches and cut out in back of Barracks nine.
You'd better cut out in back of the south latrine.
Why the south latrine?
Because that's where he is. In the water tank.
Sergeant Hoffman from Barrack 4.
Yes, Sergeant Hoffman?
As the duly elected Compound Chief, I protest the way these bodies are left lying in the mud.
Anything else?
Yes. According to the Geneva Convention, dead prisoners are to be given a decent burial.
Of course. I'm aware of the Geneva Convention. They will be given the burial they deserve. Or perhaps you would suggest we haul in twentyone cannons from the Eastern Front and give them a twentyone gun salute?
Good evening, Sergeants. A bit dank in here, isn't it?... Where is the BarackenFuehrer?
Yes, sir.
You have a Lieutenant here...
...a Lieutenant James Dunbar?
Yes, sir.
Wait a minute. We have some rights here. Why is this man being taken out?
Curtains would do wonders for this barrack. You will not get them.
When you get going on those broads, think of me!
Animal! Animal! Aren't you ashamed of yourself? A couple of guys are trying to escape and you're thinking of broads. Broads?
Shut up, Animal!
Maybe they were layin' for 'em out there!
Good morning, Animal! What'll it be for breakfast? Scrambled eggs with little sausages? Bacon and eggs sunny side up? Griddle cakes? A waffle?
Stop it, Harry!
Coffee? Milk? Or how about a little cocoa?
Why do you do this to me every morning?
Hamburger and onions! Strawberry shortcake! Gefillte fish! Banana split! French fried potatoes! Chicken a la king!
I'll kill you, Harry  so help me!
Let go, Animal! It's roll call! Hitler wants to see you!
'We will remove the iron stove  the one that was camouflaging the trap door.'
I'm telling you, Animal, these Nazis ain't Kosher.
You can say that again!
I'm telling you, Animal  these Nazis ain't Ko 
I said say it again. I didn't say repeat it.
Hey  Russki  Russki! Look at those bublichkis! Over here!
Comrade! Comrade! Otchi Tchorniya  Otchi Tchorniya!
Look at me! I'm your baby! Get a load of that blonde one! Built like a brick Kremlin!
Hey  Comrade! Over here! This is Harry Shapiro  the Volga Boatman of Barrack four!
Lay off! The blonde is mine!
Let me go! Let me go!
They'll shoot you, Animal!
It's chow, Animal! Chow!
Who wants to eat? I just wanna get over there!
No you don't! You don't want any broads with boots on!
I don't care if they wear galoshes!
You want Betty Grable!
Let me go!
Betty Grable!
Animal! When the war's over, remember I told you I'd fix you up with Betty Grable!
Yeah? How you going to fix me up with Betty Grable?
How? We go to California. I got a cousin that's working for the Los Angeles Gas Company. That's how we get the address, see? Isn't that clever? I take you up to her house and ring the doorbell and say, 'Congratulations, Miss Grable. We have voted you the girl we'd most like to be behind barbed wire with, and I'm here to present the award'.
What's the award?
What d'ya think, jerko! You're the award!
Me? What if she don't want me?
If she don't want you, she don't get anything.
You're teasing me again!
Let go, Animal! It's chow! We'll miss chow!
No, Animal.
No?
No. Your eyeball goes. The top of your head. Gotta wind up with athlete's stomach.
Easy, Animal! Easy!
Where'd that come from?
Don't you remember, Animal? A chicken lays those things.
It's beautiful! You goin' to eat it all yourself?
Thanks. You're a real pal! What're we goin' to do with it?
Plant it, Animal, and grow us a chicken for Christmas.
Ain't that too bad! Tomorrow he'll have to suck a raw egg!
He don't have to worry. He'll trade the Krauts for a sixburner gas range. Maybe a deep freeze too.
Wunderbar! Isn't he wunderbar!
He's the grrrrreatest!
Equipoise! Equipoise! What did I tell you, Animal?
Come on, baby! Daddy's going to buy you a hunk of cheese!
Schnickelfritz! I told you Schnickelfritz! Why'd you make me bet on Equipoise!
I clocked him this morning. He was running like a doll.
You clocked him! Why don't I clock you?
Look at her! Isn't she beautiful! Married an orchestra leader!
So what? There's other women!
Not for me! Betty! Betty!
Cut it out. Animal! I'll fix you up with a couple of those Russian women!
You'll fix me up!
Sure, Animal! I'll get you over there!
How? Pinky Miller from Barrack 8 tried to get over there and they shot him in the leg!
It takes a gimmick, Animal, and I figured us a little gimmick.
You did?
Sharp. Sometimes I'm so sharp it's frightening.
To the Brick Kremlin!
She'll never forgive me!
Bombs away!
Harry  I'm blind!
Blind? How stupid can you get, Animal? I drank the stuff myself.
What do those broads say?
What do they always say?
That's what I wanna hear.
It's not good for you, Animal.
Hey! This is with a typewriter! It's from a finance company!
So it is from the finance company. So it's better than no letter at all. So they want the third payment on the Plymouth. So they want the fourth, the fifth, the sixth and the seventh. So they want the Plymouth.
Sugarlips Shapiro! Frightening, ain't it?
This is a good one! Shut up, everybody! Listen to this! 'The President of the United States to Harry Shapiro. Greeting: Having submitted yourself to a local board, you are hereby notified to report...' What do you know! So now I'm a draft evader!
That Schulz pig. I'll get him yet.
You hold him. I'll slug him.
Why don't we just look in those footlockers?
Come on, you little stooge. Hand over them keys.
Grable, not Gable!
Do Jimmy Durante!
Do Grable.
Hey, here's Esther Williams.
There, Joey  ain't that better than being a lawyer?
Animal! Got a little something for you!
I'll open mine now.
I'll open mine, too.
Come on, Animal  let's trip the light fantastic!
Let me alone.
You're crying, Animal.
It's that song, Harry!
You don't want to cry over a dame that doesn't even know you're alive! Snap out of it!
There's a time in every man's life when he wants to be alone! So go away!
May I have this dance, Miss?
Why, sure!
But it's not just those legs. It's that nose of yours I'm crazy about. That cute little button of a nose!
Hey, Animal! Animal!
I've been crazy about you for years. I've seen every picture you've ever made six times. I'd just sit there and never even open that popcorn bag.
Animal! Animal! Wake up!
Betty! Betty!
This is me, Animal! It's Harry Shapiro!
Let me do it, Hoffy.
You want to go?
No. I want to draw.
Aufstehen, gentlemen! Please! You do not want to stay in bed on such a beautiful morning we are having today!
Say, Schulz 
Jawohl?
Sprechen Sie deutsch?
Jawohl.
Then droppen Sie dead!
Ja  ja! Droppen Sie dead! Always mit the jokes! Droppen Sie dead!
Jawohl!
Some are not bad at all.
Wisecrackers? Where did he pick up his English? In a pretzel factory?
You always think I am a square. I have been to America. I wrestled in Milwaukee and St. Louis and Cincinnati. And I will go back! The way the war is going I will be there before you!
You should live so long.
Hey, Schulz! I got a deal for you. Suppose you help us escape. We'll go home and have everything ready for you in Madison Square Garden. For the world championship! Schulz, the Beast of Bavaria versus Halitosis Jones!
Droppen Sie dead! Raus mit dem Ofen. Los! Los!
Why don't we accept, Animal? The worst that can happen is we wind up a couple of lamp shades.
Raus! Raus! All of you!
What is this? This is water?
It's a mouse trap.
And this?
Well, Herr Inspector! How did you find the camp? Crowded but gemuetlich, shall we say?
I want to talk about Lieutenant Dunbar. Is this Lieutenant Dunbar?
It is.
What exactly is he charged with?
Whatever it is, it's out of your jurisdiction. This man is not a prisoner of war. Not any more. He is a saboteur.
He is a prisoner of war until you can prove sabotage.
And the way you search your prisoners, it does sound rather unlikely.
All I know is he did it. I am satisfied.
I am not. According to the Geneva Convention 
You were saying ?
Simply this. After the hostilities are ended, there will be such a thing as a War Crimes Commission. If this man should be convicted without proper proof, you will be held responsible, Colonel von Scherbach.
Interesting.
Isn't it?
Very well. If you insist on details. I have ways of finding out about that blasted time bomb. Good day, sir. You will forgive me for receiving you like this?
Perfectly all right. I do not like boots.
Here we have a typical barrack. It houses seventyfive men. Every one of them has his own bunk, naturally.
Naturally. It would be rather awkward to have three men in one bunk.
As for the blankets, you will notice they are very warm. Fifty percent wool.
They also smell of moth balls. When were they issued? This morning?
What do you do for heat in this barrack? No stove?
The men here used it for a trap door, so we had to remove it temporarily.
How long is temporarily? I trust not until July.
I am Lieutenant Dunbar.
What is your number?
105353.
That is correct. Lieutenant Dunbar, I came to apologize for the accommodations. Ordinarily, of course, we never put officers up with enlisted men.
I'll live.
Quite a transportation jam we are having outside of Frankfurt! They are very angry in Berlin. They will be even angrier on the East Front, waiting for that ammunition train. Don't you think so, Lieutenant?
I don't know what you're talking about, Colonel.
Of course you don't. Now, Lieutenant, how would you like to join me in my quarters? I have a nice fire going.
I'm okay here. Why bother?
No bother. I'm very grateful for a little company. You see, I suffer from insomnia.
Ever try forty sleeping pills?
Abfuehren!
You have no idea how boring my life here is. If it weren't for an occasional air raid or some foolish prisoners trying to escape, I wouldn't know what to do. I want to thank you for keeping me company. I don't drink, I don't smoke, I don't read. I hate music. That only leaves good conversation. It will be a shame to lose you.
I didn't do it  I didn't do it.
Of course you did! Twentysix carloads of munitions gone off like a trick cigar! The S.S. is running around in circles. The Gestapo is arresting the wrong people. And von Scherbach has caught the fish. Most amusing, isn't it?
You are being rude again.
I want to sleep. Give me five minutes on that couch.
Ninethirty. General von Pfeffinger should be at his desk by now. Shall we call Berlin and tell him the good news?
I didn't do it. I didn't do it.
There will be two S.S. men here tomorrow to take you to Berlin. You will be interrogated by the General Staff. When you come to the part about your arrest, I'm sure you won't forget to give me the proper credit.
I want to sleep... I haven't slept for three days.
You will remember the name? Von Scherbach? VON SCHERBACH!
I didn't do it. I was in the Frankfurt station and the train was three miles away when it blew up.
Oh, come now! You threw a time bomb.
How could I have had a time bomb? They searched me when they took me prisoner.
Lieutenant Dunbar? It wouldn't be James Schuyler Dunbar? From Boston?
Yes, it would. Do we know each other?
Maybe he would. We applied for Officers' Training together, remember? They turned me down, but I'm glad to see you made it. Of course, it couldn't be that all that dough behind you had something to do with it! His mother's got twenty million dollars.
Twentyfive.
They've got a summer house in Nantucket, with an upstairs polo field. You better put a canopy over his bunk.
What did you expect, glamor boy? The Officers' Club with a steam room and a massage maybe?
Just a minute. You made a couple of cracks before and I let them slide. But I don't intend to take any more. If you resent my having money, start a revolution, but get off my back.
Look, Lieutenant. All your dough won't help you here. Because here you're on your own. And no mother to throw you a lifebelt. Now let's see how good you can swim.
Shut off the moaning, or we'll have the dogs on us. Shut it off, Lieutenant. This is orders!
My legs are frozen.
You'd better get that blue blood circulating, because we're busting out of this stinkhole in exactly   one minute and twenty seconds.
Sefton!
What did you expect, a St. Bernard dog?
Not you.
What some brandy?
Yeah.
Who doesn't! Suppose we wait until we hit the Waldorf Astoria.
It's on me.
You won't get off that cheap.
What are the chances busting out of here?
We'll know in forty seconds. Only in a democracy can a poor guy get his keister shot off with a rich guy.
Let's blow, Chauncey.
Let's!
You killed them, huh? Both of them?
Such nice boys! It makes me sick to 
Don't wear it out!
Cut out the guff, Schulz. We're on to you. You know everything that's happening in this barrack. Who's tipping you off?
Tipping me off? I do not understand.
Come on, Schulz! Spill it! How did you get the information? About Manfredi and Johnson? About the stove and the tunnel? Who's giving it to you? Which one of us is it?
Which one of you is what?
That's the general idea. Only it's not so general as far as I'm concerned.
You are talking crazy!
Put me down for ten, you louse.
I'll call the whole pot.
Don't ask me. Price was elected Security.
Okay, Security  what happened?
Come again?
You betcha. I said one of us is a stoolie. A dirty, stinkin' stoolie!
Break it off!
How much more do we have to take from him?
There'll be no vigilante stuff. Not while I'm Barrack Chief.
How did he get over there?
Easy! Walked right through the gate, past the guard. Like he was some Kraut Field Marshal.
The S.S. Men are here to pick up Dunbar. They're taking him to Berlin. Looks like he's finished.
Only he ain't quite finished yet. Blondie  get that smudge pot. Tie it to Steve's leg.
Then we're all in on it?
Everybody but Joey, and you know who.
Now what kind of a crack is that?
No crack. Two packs of cigarettes say they don't get out of the forest.
Hold it, Sefton. So we heard some shots  so who says they didn't get away?
Anybody here wanna double their bet?
Private property, bub.
How come the Krauts knew about that stove, Security? And the tunnel? How come you can't lay down a belch around here without them knowing it?
Come on, Trader Horn! Let's hear it: what'd you give the Krauts for that egg?
Fortyfive cigarettes. The price has gone up.
Nice guy! The Krauts shoot Manfredi and Johnson last night and today he's out trading with them.
Look, this may be my last hot breakfast on account of they're going to take away that stove. So will you let me eat it in peace?
What's your beef, boys? So I'm trading. Everybody here is trading. Only maybe I trade a little sharper. So that makes me a collaborator.
A lot sharper, Sefton! I'd like to have some of that loot you got in those footlockers!
You would, would you? Listen, Stupe  the first week I was in this joint somebody stole my Red Cross package, my blanket and my left shoe. Well, I wised up since. This ain't no Salvation Army  this is everybody for himself. Dog eat dog.
You stink, Sefton!
Static is right! The radio's static, Patton's static, we're static!
Maybe it's going to be a longer war than you figured  eh, Duke?
I suppose they also know about your distillery and the horseraces?
That's right.
Just what makes you and them Krauts so buddybuddy?
Ask Security. You tell him, Price. You've got me shadowed every minute of the day. Or haven't you found out yet?
I grease the Kraut guards. With ten percent of the take.
And maybe a little something else?
A little something what?
Yeah, what about it? Cut the horsing around. We know he's the stoolie and we know what the pay off is. Let's get on with it.
Let's get on with what? What is this anyway? A Kangaroo Court? Why don't you get a rope and do it right?
You make my mouth water.
You're all wire happy, boys. You've been in this camp too long. You put two and two together and it comes out four. Only it ain't four.
What are you looking at him for? Any objections, Sefton?
Take it.
Next we're going to auction off your department store  and your stable.
Why not?
Have a cigar.
Thanks.
I wouldn't worry about Schulz. I'd worry about Sefton. Remember me? I'm the stoolie.
You ain't going to squeal this one, brother.
No? Aren't you a little afraid to turn the stoolie loose on that compound? For a tipoff like this, you know what the Krauts would pay?
Here's the knife to do it with. Only make sure you got the right throat.
We're looking at it.
Brother, were we all wet about you!
Forget it.
Wwwill that do or do you want some mmm ?
That'll do.
There's only one pair left.
We'll get some more.
What's the matter? You on their team now? You think I'm the guy?
I don't know anymore.
I understand how you feel, Cookie. It's sort of rough  one American squealing on other Americans. Then again, Cookie  maybe that stoolie's not an American at all. Maybe he's a German the Krauts planted in this barracks. They do this type of thing. Just put an agent in with us  a trained specialist. Lots of loose information floating around a prison camp. Not just whether somebody wants to escape, but what outfits we were with and where we were stationed, and how our radar operates. Could be, couldn't it?
In this barracks?
Why not? Just one of the boys. Sharing our bunks. Eating our chow. Right in amongst the ones that beat me up. Except that he beat hardest.
Who is it?
That's not the point, Cookie. The point is what do you do with him? You tip your mitt and the Jerries pull him out of here and plant him someplace else, like Stalag Sixteen or Fifteen. Or you kill him off and the Krauts turn around and kill off the whole barracks. Every one of us. So what do you do?
Who is it?
If you don't want to tell me, why don't you tell Hoffy? Or Security?
Yeah. Security.
So long, Cookie. The department store is all yours. What's left of it.
So long, Sefton.
They ought to be under the barbed wire soon.
Looks good outside.
Come on!
Static!
Ready?
Roger.
Okay. Move on.
Three's a crowd, especially if you've got to cut your way through barbed wire. Here's the wire cutters. Are the civilian clothes ready?
Coming up.
Get going on the trap door.
Maybe just a hint or so. Think hard.
I don't have to think. We didn't tell anything to anybody. Not a word. Not until we hit this barrack.
We made a deal with Barrack One.
Any news on Dunbar?
He's still in the Kommandant's office. That's all I know.
Do Cagney. Like you did yesterday.
There was that ammunition train in the depot at Frankfurt, see? So Dunbar gets himself in the men's room and fixes a time bomb, see? Then he waits until the train starts moving out, see? And one of the cars got the door open with some straw on the floor, see? So he throws it, see, and three minutes later  voom! See?
Throws what? How could he have a time bomb?
Just pulled the old match gag, see!
What's the match gag?
Take some matches, see? And a cigarette, see? Tuck the cigarette in like this, see? Now the cigarette keeps burning like a fuse, see?
Where's Hoffy? Why don't we get any news about Dunbar?
Don't worry. He'll be all right.
I had to be the ham! I had to shoot off my mouth!
Forget it. He'll be back here. They've got no proof.
Jawohl.
Is you all good Nazis?
Jawohl.
Is you all little Adolfs?
Jawohl!
Then we shall all zalute Feldwebel von und zu Schulz! About face!
Don't let him kid you. Cagney couldn't have pulled a sweeter job. All right, boys. We were waiting in the depot in Frankfurt, see? And there was an ammunition train coming through, the longest ammunition train you ever saw, see? So Dunbar gets himself in the men's room, see? Fixes himself a time bomb, busts open the window and just as the train moves out, lays the thing in there, see? So then, he comes out like nothing's happened and three minutes later you can hear it  boom! Broke every window in Frankfurt. It was gorgeous!
I wouldn't talk about things like that.
They never caught on.
They may. That's why I would keep my mouth shut.
What's wrong with him?
Plenty.
How did he ever find out about that ammunition train?
You must have shot off your mouth all the way from Frankfurt to here.
We did not.
I sent for the police. We can explain.
Explain that some jerk in a mask and costume fought a mad scientist with four tentacles?
Right. Let's go.
You're sure you're all right.
Yeah, just a lung full of New Jersey. Lucky you showed up when you did.
Logic. Lot 49 is the closest stockpile of SL 270 I do feel foolish talking with a man dressed like a
Imagine how I feel.
Excuse me if I'm impertinent, but how did you become whatever it is you are?
The usual. Heredity and environment. What's the deal with Doc Ock?
He'll try to finish his experiment.
And blow up the universe just to prove he's right? Bit egotistical, isn't it?
A messianic complex is nothing new to Octavius. In his universe, there's only one mind his own. It must be very lonely.
Forgive me if I don't feel too sympathetic right now.
I listened to him talk of eternal truth and thought of the Bhagavad Gita, the Indian holy book "I am become Shiva, Death the destroyer of worlds." Octavius was...
Bonkers.
Loonytunes. And yet...
Just drop me off here.
Do you... live around here?
No, but I've got this secret identity to worry about. I'll swing the rest of the way.
I see. Well, Octavius won't get much further. They'll catch him and... put him away. Sad. He might very well have the truth.
Phooey on that.
SpiderMan, be careful! He's quite mad.
I'm not so happy myself.
Professor, you ever fly one of these things before?
Sure, in the war. Pull those cables
Up here, Docky Ocky!
No, no! Not there!
Where'd you get the clown suit?
Like it?
Nah. The big mask was better.
So they're airing this tonight?
Yup. Oh, here's your check, minus my commission. Solid, solid novelty act.
... a couple a drinks at Sardi's?
What?
I asked if you felt like a drink
No. No, I my aunt and uncle. Something's wrong  I need to make a phone call.
Okay, kid. Call me tomorrow.
Mr. Reiss I need a quarter
I just gave yeah, sure.
Kid, you were terrific. Max Reiss, novelty acts. Was that judo or something? Ah, skip it. Question is, can you do it again?
Oh I don't know thanks, Mr. Reiss, but
Hello, uh, Mr. Reiss? I'm I'm the guy who wrestled Hulk Hogan the other day. The guy in the mask?
I was hoping you'd call, babe. Look, you got representation?
No
Good. We'll make it oral for now. Meet me at Rockefeller Center at six tonight.
Why? It is a wrestling match, or
Letterman show, NBC. We'll talk then. Bye.
Mr. Parker.
Hi, Professor. What's up?
Peter, what can I do for you?
An extension on that astronomy paper? Because, uh...
Your dog ate it.
Actually, I got this spider bite
Pretty lame for such a smart kid.
Really, Professor, I
Fortean phenomena. Anomalies in our socalled reality. Weirdness, my boy, and lots of it.
Caused by Doc Ock's experiment?
How much do you know about it?
Not a lot. I saw inside of the Science Center. What exactly happened?
Only Octavius knows for sure. And last time I spoke to him, he was on the planet WhizBang.
Need any more help?
No, thank you. I'm sure you've got your own problems.
This photo you took of "SpiderMan" 
Luck. The right place at the right time.
Really. I'd like to speak with him.
I don't think I'll be running into him.
You never know. Go get some sleep.
I'll try. Thanks.
The paper, my boy. A solid Bplus.
Oh. Yeah. Thanks.
If you really apply yourself, you'll get an A next time.
Otto, I don't like Thorkel any more than you do. But he has got a point.
Rosomoff, I have better things to do than teach Introductory Physics to mindless adolescents.
Perhaps. But every now and then someone pays attention. You did.
No. No thank you. I have work.
I heard about Thorkel's order
I left a paper in my desk.
A bit melodramatic but if you could prove it that would tie in your unified field theory, the Big Bang, KaluzaKlein
Ach, theories! This was first hand, experiential knowledge, the essence of the universe.
My self. I don't matter. This human life, all life insignificant. Bodies bags of sleepy, sluggish flesh.
All right, we may be insignificant, imperfect creatures but we're all we've got.
You're wrong. Just for a moment, I heard, saw, felt I became Creation.
Creation? Or its opposite?
Truth. Pure, eternal. Beyond the boundaries of mere mortality.
Otto, we are mere mortals. You must never forget your own limits
I'll repeat the experiment. I will hold the truth. That's the only thing that matters.
No. It isn't.
Life and death matter. Yours everyone's. By comparison, our search for truth is only a product of curiosity, a game
Oh, Roz. My mind is so far beyond yours now. I could beat you at chess now.
My God, Otto, you have to hear me! The world we know will collapse! Everything we have devoted our lives to all patterns, all harmonies will be destroyed!
Truth. Truth alone exists. Truth must be released...
You have no right! This is cosmic suicide!
Ha. Antigravitational particles.
Power down. I need to talk to you.
Proof. Proof of a unified field. Not just theory and equations experimental proof.
Let's talk in the hall.
In this obsolete little cyclotron, I'm solving the greatest physics problem of the 20th Century. With more power, I could
I've had an extremely bad day, Octavius. A sophomoric prank in the library and punitive measures.
Then the alumni reports came in fundraising is down this year.
I couldn't care less. What I've done is
What you've done is make the entire physics department look foolish. You compare yourself to Einstein; your colleagues compare you to Bozo the Clown.
This is the unified field! All the forces of the universe tied together perfectly!
You've used up your grant. The electric bills alone exceed your annual salary. Not to mention the potential hazards of your radioactive fuel.
I don't care. Cretin.
That Nobel Prize will just have to wait.
No!
Then you'll be glad to know the University has decided not to press criminal charges against you. Breaking and entering the minor matter of the total destruction of a 23 million dollar cyclotron
I will finish what I've begun
Doubtless. And you'll have all the time in the world to pursue your work. Somewhere else.
Poison emergency.
Hi. I've got sort of a hypothetical question. Do you suppose the bite of a radioactive spider would transmit that spider's proportional strength and agility?
Is this some sort of Zen thing?
I mean, I suddenly have immense physical power, and the ability to crawl up walls
Do ya? Lemme give you the number for Bellevue. That's 5615151
Yeah, a psychiatric hospital. Listen, I'm serious
There's nothing in there worth stealing!
That's the understatement of the year.
Aunt May, you're trespassing.
Your records are older than you are. Have you never heard of new wave?
When I moved out, you swore up and down you wouldn't meddle
Oh, Peter. A zit.
I am old enough to
but I didn't feel like getting to know your roaches.
I'll introduce you.
Ick. And those foul chemicals in the pots
I'm a photographer, remember?
Anyway, I've decided to kidnap you for dinner in Forest Hills
It's Friday night...
Yes. Do you have a date?
No.
The record
It'll shut itself off.
What the hell is that?
Tofu. Ben, I wish you wouldn't.
Oh, not that. You promised you'd burn it.
You were adorable. The least you could do is use a glass.
Absolutely no class.
Funny thing happened after my physics class today. Harry Osborn
Use a fork.
A match made in heaven.
See? You big dullard.
Peter, you're bleeding.
It's fine. Tell me what
Oh, Ben gets through everything.
Aunt May, what happened?
I was napping on the couch. There was a voice and a shot. I woke up. Ben was looking at me.
How is he?
He'll be fine. They won't tell me anything, but I'm sure he'll be fine.
You were the last one to see Thorkel. In Octavius' hospital room.
So you've found Thorkel?
Some of him charbroiled bones. Teeth. We ruled out suicide. Any bad blood between him and Ock?
Octavius wasn't the murderer type.
But you said he went off a little, after the accident, when those mechanical arms
Waldos.
Right. We have reason to believe he also robbed an armored truck and killed two men. With the waldos.
Lieutenant, I've triangulated recent bizarre events the Bronx, Jersey, Brooklyn all rippling out from Here. The E.S.U. Science Center. Octavius' experiment seems to have opened a hole in spacetime, drastically changing the interrelation between molecular binding, electromagnetism and gravity
Yeah, that's fascinating, but I'm just a fat, dumb cop lookin' for a psycho killer
There's an infinitely greater danger. If Listen. The only thing Octavius cares about is repeating his experiment. To do that, he needs a radioactive catalyst, SL 270.
Toxic dumps, huh.
And he'll need a cyclotron. He can't use ours he's already destroyed it. Guard every nuclear accelerator on the Eastern Seaboard. New Haven, Long Island, two in Cambridge
You sure about all this?
I know him.
Of course.
It's a lot of ground to cover. We'll try. Funny coincidence, huh?
No such thing as coincidence. "God does not play dice with the universe."
Einstein, right? We'll see ya.
Peter my condolences.
Yeah, Roz.
Any sign of our friend?
Nope. Maybe he skipped to Rio. Feds got troops surrounding every cyclotron on the continent. Are you absolutely positive that one at E.S.U. is kaput?
Roz? Rosomoff? What is it?
Precise equipment such as waldos
Good morning, Liz.
How very dull, Peter Parker.
It's too early to be clever.
It's never too early to be clever. Describe in a sentence how you feel about me.
Huh?
Fill in the blank: "I blank Elizabeth Allan."
I uh
Uh is a good start.
I lovloathe Elizabeth Allan. Abhor, detest, despise
Oh. Well, I hate you and everyone who looks like you.
I hate the Platonic idea of you.
I hate people with alliterative names.
I hate
I hate your relatives, I hate your coffee, I hate your shoes.
No. I was lying about the coffee.
Thank God.
 but the dogs treed him between Huxley and Kafka.
Poor Harry. Always desperate for attention. What about the bunny?
Back to the lab. Harry'll probably lose his scholarship.
He'll weasel out of trouble. Again.
Maybe. I could have stopped it, though.
Since you're feeling guilty, why not donate your pretzel to somebody who needs it?
My my.
Yeah. Really gets to you if you let it.
I suppose.
You want to give them something, but they'll just buy more Ripple. And they smell so... bad.
What?
God, Flash can be such a jerk.
But you like that in a man?
You should write that one down.
"Flash," Liz. You're going out with something that calls itself "Flash."
Some prep school thing.
Does it have a human name?
Eugene. Admit it, Peter you'd do anything for a nickname like "Flash."
I'd never admit that.
Hurry up, Flash!
What are you doing this weekend?
I've gotta study.
Oh. Maybe I should, too
Eat alone, gotta read. Social defense tactic 17 Peter, that jacket is foul. Lose your glasses?
Hi, Adele.
Brrr. It's colder than New Hampshire in here.
I'm sure you kept warm.
Don't misquote Othello at me. Besides, you'd have to care about somebody to strangle them.
What's your problem?
I've got no problems.
Sit down and stop being such a child.
This from a girl who still plays with dolls.
That wasn't clever. That was just nasty.
What's in the bag? Garbage?
Sort of. I'm returning the that outfit that you hated so much. Maybe I can get my money back.
Oh, don't do it on my account
No, it wasn't only you it  it just wasn't my style. Hey, look let's go to lunch. Someplace nice for a change.
This from a man who winces at the cost of a pretzel?
That was then. I'm better since the lobotomy.
 but at least Aunt May's okay now. I really have to stop by the hospital this afternoon.
Do you mind if I come too?
I think I'd like that.
They keep saying there's nothing I could've done. That's a lie. I could've done something. If only I'd paid attention to my feelings.
You're not trained for that. None of us are... I mean, sometimes I... Okay, let's say you had gone back. What then? Are you bulletproof?
Well, no.
So? The next day I'd read, "Peter Parker murdered," and I'd feel...
You'd feel what?
Listen. You think you're responsible for everything that happens. Don't flagellate yourself  and don't flatter yourself, either. You're not the center of the universe. You're just... Peter.
Am I? I'm not so sure. I used to be sure of a lot of things. Oh, different things from week to week, but now I'm not sure of anything anymore.
I know what you mean. I...
Hello. Earth to Peter. Are you listening?
Unhhuh. Excuse me. I've gotta go.
I'm sorry about being a jerk this afternoon.
Just shut up and close your eyes. This'll hurt.
May's much better. She'll be out soon.
Oh, God, I forgot to
Ssh. I always thought she was a strong person. She is but not for the reasons I thought.
Strong...
Her cleverness, that hard edge maybe they're the weakest part of her. The strong part is what's underneath. The part she was protecting. There's no reason to protect it... I think she's just finding that out now.
Peter?
I'm here...
Hello, Liz.
Hello. So very boring. Peter Parker, how do you feel about me this morning?
I... I like you. A lot.
Hm. Well, I like you, too. I like your aunt. I like your shoelaces. I like
Hold it. Can we stop being clever, just for a moment?
Why?
This may be the end of a beautiful friendship, you know.
Nah.
He left. I couldn't believe it he just left! It's as if he's somewhere else... I'm only getting a piece of him.
When Peter was little, he loved to hide. In closets, under the sink. He needed a secret place. But when I'd look for him, he'd laugh... he wanted to be found.
I don't think he wants me to find him.
Maybe I was hiding. For years, I never told Ben the one important thing.
He knew.
Some things you should say anyway.
Even if they're not clever.
Even if you've heard them a million times in every stupid pop song ever written.
What if you get hurt?
What if the world ends tomorrow?
Is that bug juice, or are you just glad to see me?
Sorry. I'm still getting the hang of this.
I see. So, Amazing SpiderMan I'll assume that's not your given name
Just call me Spidey.
Can I get you a snack a housefly, maybe?
Thanks, I already ate.
I'll hate myself in the morning for asking, but what exactly makes you any more amazing than the average jerk on the street?
Well...
All right, amazing. Are you quite finished?
Just about. You see, I also have this amazing strength...
Are you quite finished?
Just about. See, I also have this amazing strength.
No refund on the mask, y'know. Health laws.
Uhhuh. Look, this should be skintight. Bright colors. Red, maybe a deep midnight blue.
What's this? A cockaroach?
A spider. Eight legs.
Eh. Week from tomorrow.
How about tomorrow?
You're making my life difficult.
Two suits by tomorrow for $400?
An even five I throw in the jacket.
Deal. But don't tell anyone. I want to keep a low profile.
Relax, Jameson. This is business. I know you want photos of me, so I'll give your boy Parker an exclusive. On one condition
I don't submit to blackmail! The first amendment protects my freedom to tell the news as I imagine it, and
Would you cool it already?
Police, help! Po mmph.
Thank you. Now, repeat after me SpiderMan is a good guy. On the side of right, and niceness, and cute baby animals and all that.
Frmpphyrr.
Fine.
Oh, that? It'll come unstuck in a halfhour or so. Your mouth needs the rest. Bye.
Hmfhrr?
Too hip. Your photos suck, kid.
I think you're trying to tell me something.
Come on, that's pure luck! The guy was in the right place at the right time
You make your own luck, Parker! Get into the middle of things, spend every day pounding the pavement of the city's mean streets
You taking extension classes, Mr. Jameson?
Parker you go here, right? Got your camera?
Yeah
Get inside and get pictures. Fifty bucks.
Can we make it a hundred?
Seventy. But I want blood and gore. You know, sexy stuff.
Can't focus...
Gimme that. Pick it up later.
I bet you don't think I appreciate you, Parker. I do.
Well, thanks. You wouldn't believe what I went through to get those. Right after you took my camera, this ambulan
I like enthusiasm. That's why I use a lot of smartass kids. Not just 'cause they work cheap.
Mr. Jameson
I got a question, college boy. What the hell am I supposed to do with these!? I ask for disaster, pathos, what do I get? Salvador Dali! When I want artsyfartsy doubleexposures, I'll ask for
Doubleexposures? But they're not I was in
I don't give a gerbil's ass how you got 'em! I can't print this surreal garbage!
You print pictures of Bigfoot!
Bunch of kids at your goddamned college say their appliances attacked them. Did you get pictures?
Mr. Jameson
No! Washington Square, manhole covers turn into flying saucers and radios explode like Abombs. Did you get pictures?
Can I get a word in edgewise?
No! Now get outta my face, kid.
Now tell me you love me.
Lemme down, bugface!
That's not even close.
Are you okay?
Get away from me, freak!
How are you doing, kid?
Oh, look, Mr. Hogan, I'm really sorry about what happened in there. Really
You can be great, kid, just stick with it. But let me give you one little piece of advice... be a good guy.
Right.
You maniac. You'll blow your scholarship.
They'll never take me alive.
What's in there?
A little bunny I saved from dissection.
Harry!
Ooooh. Your feet are on fire.
Harry
"Harry Osborne diminishes the stature of the University."
Let me guess. The hunting dogs. You lost your scholarship.
"Scholarship students must maintain dignity at all times."
I know. I've got one too.
Screw scholarships! Universities are death! They make slaves of us all with their fetid ideas! Burn 'em down, I say!
Great idea. Let me get some shoes. I'll take you home.
Why home? The real world beckons, man! The possibilities are endless. Want to go up to the World Trade Center and laugh at New Jersey?
You're so responsible it's disgusting. But you're my only friend... do you hate me?
Don't be pitiful.
I am not pitiful! I am the bridge to the bermensch!
Jesus Christ.
Mmhmm.
And you let me go on about Rosomoff working me too hard? I feel like a complete idiot.
You're not half the idiot I am, Harry.
You get mugged or something?
Listen, I do appreciate your concern, but
I got you a present.
Oh, I need your notes from the classes I missed.
Well, I've missed a lot of classes myself...
Oh. Well, hang in there, amigo.
Lizzy!
I was sort of hoping to get out of
I'm parked illegally!
Hey, guys. Check it out I saw this dud on the tube last night. He is incredibly cool.
I saw him too. He was silly and obnoxious.
Mistake? Hey, guy, get back here!
Hm. What a lump.
Flash, get lost.
Come on, laughter's the best medicine!
Yeah, take pity on the feeble minded.
No, no, listen. They're tryin' to say he was in cahoots with this killer
Flash, drop it
 but they got it all wrong. Any fool can figure it out. SpiderMan nailed this guy!
I was there.
See?
Or was it all a dream?
Here you go, Pete.
Uh, Uncle Ben, I
What, want a glass?
No. No, that's okay.
So, uh... how's college goin'?
Same old stuff. How's the pharmacy?
Ah, ya know. Neighborhood's not what it used to be. Kid no more'n five swiped a candy bar the other day.
You stop him?
Wasn't worth gettin' upset over a Milky Way. Anyways, I was never much for, ya know, discipline.
I know. Still thinking about retiring?
Eh. If I ever get out from under. Maybe take May to France or somethin'.
Ya still follow the Mets, Pete?
Nonot really.
S'funny. When your mom and dad, uh, passed away, I had this idea. I wanted you to be the best baseball player in the world.
Remember Little League?
Yeah, Babe Ruth you wasn't.
Ya set for, uh, ya know money?
Oh, sure.
Cause if you get in a bind
No, no.
Yeah, ya like to do things on your own I been thinkin' lately. Maybe I wasn't the, ya know, greatest dad
Oh, come on, Ben ,that's not
 no, I mean... we... your Aunt May not wantin' kids and all... I mean we both...
When you won that scholarship, I was proud of you.
I know.
I'm always here, Pete.
Sexual tension...
Oh, beware of jealousy, my lord, the greeneyed monster...
Time to get my bowling ball re drilled.
Peter Parker, you have no idea what I did this weekend. Or didn't do. It's no business of yours either way.
Well, look who's dressing for success.
At least this ensemble doesn't glow in the dark.
And Flash isn't?
Be nice.
Peter you took this picture?
Let me see.
What're we having?
My special, scrambled eggs surprise.
Scrambled eggs surprise?
How do you know where the gun is?
I know where everything is.
Except the goddamn skateboards, which are everywhere! I'd like to kill the guy who invented those things.
Lay back, Mack.
Lay back, Mack!! What's this "lay back, Mack?" Where does he get this?
God! Scrambled eggs surprise?! These are pickles...! God!
Just "lay back, Mack"... lay back...
Nice threads Dad.
Yeah, I think so.
How are things going, pal?
Okay, I guess.
How about dinner tonight?
Mom and I got plans.
What "plans?" You and Mom got "plans?"
She's taking singing lessons.
She's what?
She met some friend of Aunt Millie's who works for a record company. He thinks she's got a great voice.
What! What kind of pathetic line is that?
We're gonna pass the street.
You coming in?
No, I'm not coming in. And if you'd rather go to a "singing lesson" than have dinner with your father...
We're not going to a singing lesson, she's just gonna start taking singing lessons.
So, what are you doing tonight?
Shooting.
Shooting?
Yeah. She says we gotta get used to being alone in this neighborhood. 'Bye, Dad.
Tommy! The guy's a sleazebag. She can't sing.
I don't think she can sing, either.
Take care, pal.
You made a terrible mistake, Keegan. You didn't do what I said.
That's right, you're gonna do what I say. Joey. I want to help you out of this.
You should'a brought the girl.
I brought the girl. She's outside.
Hold it...!
I'll prove it!
How do I know that's her?
I'll bring her in. You let them go, and I'll bring her in.
Why should she come in?
She trusts me. She'll do what I say.
Bullshit! Prove it.
Koontz! Let her come in! Claire! It's pitch dark in here! You're gonna have trouble seeing anything, so just come in, and straight down a long hall. Then stand at the door so we can see you. We want to see your face and we won't be able to until you get to the kitchen door!
I want your guarantee they'll be turned loose when she opens the front door.
I get my hostage first. No one's turned loose until I say so.
Let my kid go.
I'm not lettin' no one go.
Get that gun away from his head, or I'll keep her from coming in! Put the gun on me, he can't hurt you! He's tied up! Put him under the table!
Don't you fuckin' give orders to me...
Put him under the table or I'll stop her from coming in.
Under the table.
I'll take his place, all right? Put the gun to my head.
Watch your step!
What the fuck you doin'?!
Are you in charge here?
No, sir...
I asked for the man in charge...
That would be Lieutenant Garber, and he's very busy upstairs...
Don't tell me he's "busy". I asked for an ambulance for this woman and...
Is she injured?
You're not going to talk to anyone without a lawyer.
She's not a suspect, sir, she's a witness. Could I ask you to step outside, please.
No, I will not step outside.
Sir, I am just trying to do my job, it's standard procedure to question the witness alone. Help me out here, could you please leave.
I don't really see what that has to do with...
You're here 'til what time?
I'm relieved at 4:00 A.M.
Uh, yeah. I'm a policeman.
Ever shot anyone?
Yes.
Does it make you... hard?
... Hard?
Erect. You know, a "boner?" I'd heard that it gives you a boner, to shoot a man.
Hey Mike, out of the bag into the bureau, huh... How do you like it so far?
Right behind you, T.J.
Who's Joey Venza?
Bad fuckin' news. Even the families dropped him when they found they had a fruitcake on their hands. But he knows where a lot of bodies are buried. It'd cap it for Garber if he could bring him in.
Shit! A Nursemaid! My first detail, and I'm a fuckin' slug! I got a 'choice' at all.
Do it, or look for another profession. That's a choice I guess.
You in this with me?
Yeah! Seniority gets the day shift.
Not Koontz.
Be happy. He's good at this.
Wasn't your fault.
It was my fault, T.J. Fuck!
Tell me I'm dreamin'.
I just gotta talk to her, T.J.
At my house...!
Call a cruiser!
Let's go. We're takin' her home! Move it! Get the cars!
Koontz! I need you guys!
We'll call SWAT. We'll get the locals. Throw it!
No, I need'm now!
No OneSeventeen, they'll fuck it up! He told me not to tell anybody, to bring Claire and come alone! He won't wait, he knows I'm two minutes away! Koontz, please!
I can't do it, you know that... He's not gonna allow it anyway, Mike. No way is he gonna let anybody walk out of that house alive, who can finger him.
I don't know how you did it, but whatever it was, keep doing it.
I just sat and listened.
Safe and secure is how we want her. Until she I.D.'s Venza.
Why not Patrol? They'd do just as good a job.
When I want your advise, Keegan, I'll make an appointment.
What about when she goes out?
Discourage it. But stay with her if you can't. Call it in first so we can have a car on tail. She's agreed to travel only with her own driver and limousine... okay, let's check it out.
But I got him! He's in jail! Wasn't that the point...?!
You apprehended him after he gave himself up 
It wasn't a bad bust. He gave himself up because he knew I was gonna nab him.
Anyone who turns himself in makes a good case for bail.
Even Joey Venza?!
He's got a good lawyer, and he made a smart move. We've got a scared witness and a suspect who proved "good will" by turning himself in.
What about when she identifies him?!
If she identifies him. Where the fuck were you anyway, cowboy! Venza was meat. He walked right past you, and now we're the ones playing catchup! You better hope she identifies him.
They're operating on him. He's still alive.
I heard.
I heard a lot... Anything you want to deny, Mike?
It should've been me...
What do you think? Any chance? There's nothin' else I'm any good at, but this.
Call me next week. We'll talk about it.
Think I should put the skateboard in bed with him?
Too kinky.
Ellie, you know I think it's about time we got outa this place, get us a house of our own. We can afford it now.
Amen to that. The supermarket's full of assholes.
Take my advice, don't buy any...
Mike?
What?
My ass if falling.
Your what...?
My ass is falling. It is.
What are you talking about?
I just saw it in the mirror, it doesn't look like my ass anymore.
Get in bed.
What am I gonna do? I jog, I do the exercises on TV in the morning... gravity...
You got a great ass! I love your ass  now get that falling ass into bed before it hits the floor.
Tomorrow, I start looking for our house... You love me?
You got no idea...
Imagine... I'm sleepin' with a DT.
So how'd it go?
Not great. I've got a babysitting job for a material witness on a homicide.
For how long?
'Til they pick up the perp. Seniority gets day shift... You know what that means.
Don't start... The only reason is that the neighborhood's shi... ... crummy. I just don't like the idea of leaving you alone here at night.
I can still use a gun.
Just keep it someplace safe, but handy.
Changing the sparks. They showed it on TV. What d'you think?
I think television's a dangerous thing.
It's twenty bucks in the bank.
Hey. The neighbors.
Let 'em eat their hearts out.
I read the article. You didn't tell me she was so beautiful.
Well, actually, she looks better than that.
Okay?
Unbelievably handsome. You look fantastic in a suit.
The real estate lady left, she couldn't wait anymore. What took you?
Oh, some shit.
What shit, honey?
You don't want to hear about it.
Honey. You got him.
I don't know that Ellie. He might get out. Garber's not bein' straight with the witness, she could be in deep shit if she identifies him, and it's my job to convince her she won't be.
She's got to identify him.
Why?
Because the the only way to stop crime is to identify criminals. I can't believe you're talking this way Mister Detective  I think she's got a lot of guts.
I think  she's crazy.
I'd identify him.
I might stop you.
Oh I can see you've had a bad day. We'll see the house another time, okay?
No! No! I'm sorry. Ninetyseven five right?
Where'd you get the tie?
Bought it.
It's not your taste.
What did she say the down payment was?
She didn't like the other one, so she picked this one.
She took you shopping for a tie?
I had to follow her to a store.
What's wrong with your paisley tie?
Ellie, it was a formal party...
Excuse me! You went to a party with her?
I'm her bodyguard, goddamnit...
I know you're her bodyguard. Did she buy it or did you?
She bought it.
Why?
I don't know why she bought me a tie!  She's a generous person  and she's a nice person  and I could be settin' her up to be killed... you want the fuckin' tie?
Coming to bed?
Few minutes. Want to catch the news.
Should I wait up? We've got to get up early for the beach tomorrow.
I'll be right up.
What?
Goddamn Venza assaulted a taxi driver in the Bronx, thirteen months ago. It's coming to court and the judge let him walk because of the pending case law.
Mike, take it easy...
Take it easy! I set her up. I saw it coming.
It's not your fault. Mike, please get off the case.
It is my fault! I'm responsible for her!
Did you hear what I said?
Did you hear what I said?!!
I'm sorry. I know I heard noises... the detective's wife...
I want you and Tommy to stay with my mother.
C'mon, don't make an issue of it. Do you want the fucking meatloaf or not?
D'you have to say "fucking" every other word?
What was that?
You heard me.
Jesus, Mike, somebody's been feeding you a line of crap.
What're you talking about 
I'm talking about I've been talking this way for sixteen years and now, out of the blue, it's vulgar!
You gotta get another tour. We're gettin' too old for this.
I'm sorry.
I'm not saying it's your fault.
What did you do tonight?
I watched TV.
What did you watch?
I don't remember Michael, go to sleep. You don't have to make conversation with me.
Hey, we qualify for the Senior Citizens EarlyBird Special... Did you see Tommy today? He misses you...
Well. This'll be over soon. Venza's such a nut job, we're bound to pick him up soon.
I'd like you to switch to the day shift, Mike. To be home for dinner. Helen insists that T.J. be home for dinner... That's why he's on the morning shift.
Well, T.J.'s... seniority... and all. I'll talk to Garber about it.
I already did. I mean, I talked to his wife, and she talked to him...
You talked to his wife?
My wife talks to his wife about what shift I'm gonna take?
What's the difference?
Let me drive...
Get away from me... get away! She means that much to you, you stay with her. But you come back, you come back for me. Not for Tommy, not for your mother, or your fucking job, but for me.
El? I'm sorry. I do love you. And you are a lady. I have so much respect...
I'm going to visit my sister for a few days. I'd like you to get your stuff out.
What about Tommy?
He'll live through it. They all live through it. What a world, huh?
Was it Venza? Did you get him?
No.
Ellie...
I'm all right.
He doesn't want to sleep here. Neither do I. It's not my house anymore.
Me neither.
Keep what handy?
Nothing.
The gun? It's in the upstairs closet.
We're not going to the game, are we Mom?
Sure we are, let's go!
Mom, what's going to happen with you and Dad?
I don't know Tommy.
Hey, can we go to McDonald's?
Absolutely.
Tommy...!
I'm all right.
... just saying you should think twice about it...
... I don't want to talk about it...
... You know, and I know, that the only thing standing between a life sentence for Venza and his freedom is my testimony at his trial...
Claire...
... He killed Win... he enjoyed it...
Win made his choices, Claire. We all do 
And I'm making mine.
You're dealing with a psychopath. He gets out of jail in ten years, or five... or ninety days, and you'll be looking over your shoulder for the rest of your life...
What am I supposed to do?! I saw one of my oldest friends get killed! And I saw who did it! I can't just  "let it go away"!!
Claire...
Hello, Claire. How extraordinary that you came.
It was something my father always liked me to do.
You're planning to speak?
Not if you don't want me to.
Well, of course, we'd be... honored...
Just putting in an appearance then.
I've never seen anyone killed before.
It's okay... I've never been a detective before either...
Straight ahead.
Hard to find doors in this place.
Hi.
I'm sorry. I'm not sure how this works. I have to go out... is that all right?
Uh...
I have to pick something up before Bergdorf's closes, then stop at a reception just a few blocks away.
I think, maybe, that isn't such a great idea...
Lieutenant Garber said that in all likelihood there was no real danger, is that true?
Right. That's true.
Can we go then?
I'm supposed to call in.
There's a phone in the car.
Do you have another tie? Something more conservative?
Oh... Yes... I don't have it with me. It's at home.
What did he say?
He thinks you're being a little careless. He made the point several times.
You live in Manhattan?
Queens... You know Queens?
My father founded a music school there. The Milton Gregory School.
I'm supposed to speak at their tenth anniversary.
Nice. Maybe you'll stop by... have an aperitif...
Are you nervous?
No, Ma'am.
Would you pick one out, please?
Beg pardon?
Since you're going to be my escort, you'll need a new tie.
Put it on my account, please.
I got money.
You can touch me, I won't bite.
Not too sure about that.
People think I'm stepping out on Neil. We're causing quite a scandal.
Hey! There are crazy people here.
Let's get a drink.
Ah... I shouldn't... on duty.
I'll have a spritzer, order something soft for yourself... I must go for a pee.
I'll come with you.
I think I can probably do that on my own.
Hi. Just checking to see if you're here.
I came on at 8:00.
You all right?
Yeah.
I'm sorry about what happened.
Listen, that was my fault.
I shouldn't have listened to you, I should've followed you right into the "can" the way he did.
If I had known I was going to have company, he was right next to me. I think he heard me peeing! I hate that, I am glad he's in jail.
I guess I'm supposed to do it in the morning. Identify him.
Sooner, the better.
He said he'd kill me.
Big talk... Desperate guy.
Right. How could he do that if he's in jail and they've thrown away the key...?
Claire?
Hmm...
You wouldn't happen to know what language they speak in India, do you?
Urdu and Hindi.
Yeah, what a woman.
Didn't do very well, did you?
Nope... never finished one yet. I hate these things.
You were reading my Renoir.
How did you know?
You put it back in the wrong place... Do you like Renoir?
They're kind of fuzzy.
You know why they're like that...? He was myopic... going blind.
No kidding.
So, this could be your last night, huh?
Could be, I guess.
Want to go out for a drink? I mean, we're both sitting here, and Joey Venza's in jail...
Yeah, I like that! Where you go, I follow.
You mean to tell me, a mugger would stay away from someone because they walked a certain way?
Absolutely. Look at this.
That's the dumbest walk I ever saw!
No, no seriously! There's a study done on this, you walk this way, the muggers are gonna single you out.
And die laughing, because you're walking so stupid!
Hey. This is my business. Do I tell you your business.
Okay. Let's just see if a mugger gets me.
... It was like... the minute I saw her... I knew. She looked so damn adorable in a cop's uniform... puttin' on a big, tough act...
So it was "love".
Yeah. It was.
And "is"...?
Yeah.
That's nice. And you live in Queens? With a child, and a dog...?
No dog.
I saw you with a dog, in my mind.
No dog.
But "nice".
Very nice.
What about Neil?
You don't like him, do you?
What's to like?
Tell it like it is.
You asked.
He's very caring, in his way. You haven't seen him at his best.
You could do better.
I'll miss you, Mike...
It was nice having you "watch over me"...
Yeah. I liked being around you too... Claire.
Good night, Mike.
Sleep good.
Claire?
What do you want?
Open the door, will you?
I can't open it.
It's just me. I want to talk to you. Let me in...
You put me life in danger.
No, you'll be safe. We're gonna pick him up again...
And then what? I'll never be safe. I'll have to leave the country! You can't protect me, and you can't keep him in jail! And you knew that all the goddamn time!
You told me I'm safe? I'm going for a walk in the park.
Claire, will you calm down?
I'm perfectly calm, I'm a normal human being. I'm going for a walk in the park.
Claire...!
Stop, will you?!
Let go!
Stop being nuts!
I trusted you! I thought you cared about me?!
I do care about you!
More bullshit! More bullshit! What kind of odds are they giving me? There must be some kind of office pool. One month? A couple of days?
Yeah.
They called here after you left...
She's okay. Everything's okay...
I don't know you...
This is me, Mike. There's nothing else...
You don't wash your clothes at the Boulevard Laundromat... you don't pick up your kids from some crummy public school... what is this? A fuckin' joke?
Okay, then let's make it easy. It was a mistake. Don't make me feel guilty now that it's over, let's forget about it.
You told her?
Not exactly.
What do you want to do?
I don't know.
You don't want to know.
Oh, I do want to know. I tried to reach you at the precinct.
I've moved into Scotty's... Good news about T.J., though. Looks like that tough son of a gun is gonna pull through.
Oh God, that's great!
Are you okay?
Oh, I'm fine. They've replaced you with quite an entourage. It's a regular "marching band". You should see me on the street, you'd think I was the First Lady 
I'm taking them all out to Queens, as a matter of fact, right in your neighborhood. There's an event at my Father's school... an anniversary... I thought maybe you could come...
Oh that thing in Queens.
I'm going away after that, the next morning.
Where?
Pretty far. I'm told not to say anything about it on the phone, in case it's tapped... they think it's best, safer, if I go away, at least till Venza's found.
When can I see you?
I don't know. Garber's left orders here not to let you in the building.
Oh yeah. When is it? This thing in Queens.
Tomorrow night. Can you come?
I don't know. It wouldn't be very smart.
Listen, you're right. Don't do it. I'll just... send you an address, okay?
Claire...
No really, it's okay, I've gotta go. I'm expecting some calls. I'll be fine, really.
I'll think about Wednesday.
What a memory.
Do you dance?
Do you?
Pretty bad.
Let's do it.
They guys treatin' you all right?
Yeah.
I've been doing a lot of thinking.
I know.
It wouldn't work.
I know.
I'd miss my life...
... Don't explain.
How long you going away for?
Long enough.
"For"...?
"To"... Forget about you.
I'll have to pack a lot of clothes.
Yeah...
... Mike.
It's Venza. He wants you. You, for Ellie and Tommy.
Claire!
Mike...?
Everyone's all right...?
Yeah. It's all over.
So.
So.
You still going away?
I don't know...
You don't have to, now.
I think it's probably still a good idea.
I'll miss you, Mike.
Listen, I'll... see you again.
I like your coat.
You have a weakness for Lady Cops.
I do.
Say goodbye, Mike.
You take care.
Claire!
Hello, Win.
Skiddy and Kit? I haven't seen them since that shitty pasta dinner on the cape.
They've got two monsters now. Both boys.
And so what's with Steinhart? Is it serious?
You didn't like him?
Looks a little constipated to me.
It's called "solid"... Nice to find someone you can count on, Win.
It's terrific Win.
You still writing the occasional magazine article?
Occasionally.
Then c'mon. Follow me. The art's in the basement, you're going to get a privileged peek.
He won't do it.
Why do you say that?
He won't.
We thought you'd be alone. We want to talk about...
We want to talk freely.
They are not autonomous individuals and they're not actual persons. They are projections materializing from our minds, based on a given individual.
It's an experiment.
A recoil, with no compensating mechanism.
And when a given situation no longer corresponds to the normal faculties of the... original, the visitor suffers some sort of disconnected consciousness.
Followed by nonhuman manifestations.
Are the actions of Solaris premeditated?
Gibarian was under enormous 
Gibarian was helpless. It's very simple: Man created the science that resulted in the discovery of Solaris, and the ship that brought us here.
Snow, get up here, now.
I'm not Snow.
I got rid of him. I wanted to see if... I wanted to be the only one. I wanted to be Snow.
Fuck me. I knew it.
You want it coming back with us?
You go ahead. Of what I remember about Earth... it's all one thing now. Everything's a blur. I like distinctions.
Oh, God. I'm awake.
Yes.
I need to see Snow.
I'll go with you.
I'll just be a minute.
Don't.
Why?
I don't know. I can't be alone.
I'll be right back.
What are they?
To calm your anxiety.
To calm my anxiety.
We're taking a flight?
Yes.
Rheya...
I want you inside me right now.
"And Death Shall Have No Dominion".
Book?
Poem. Dylan Thomas. I thought of it when I saw you on the train.
My Thomas is a little rusty.
Not a very happy poem.
You didn't look very happy.
I wasn't.
And tonight?
Better.
You want to fuck her?
Stop it.
You behave as though you want to fuck her.
Rheya. Not here.
And I just want to know if I'm crazy or not  if what I think is happening is actually happening. Or am I one of those people, those women, who are blind to what's going on? Who pretend not to see their husband's attention toward another woman?
Let's go home.
You go home.
I am. Please come with me. I don't want to do this here.
You talk like an actor.
You're better when you take them.
I know, I know. But still, somehow I don't feel better.
All right. How about I feel better when you take them?
What do you remember?
What do you mean?
Do you remember Beethoven? The Beatles? Movies, books, restaurants, friends?
Yes. But not until you mentioned them. As soon as you said those things, I remembered them. And they have associations that make me think of other things I remember. It's like filling up.
Is it a planet?
Not exactly. It exists in a continuum that wasn't proven until ten years ago, a higher mathematical dimension superimposed on top of the Universe. An infinite number of them, in fact. It was a violation of all of our various laws regarding the Universe, Space, or SpaceTime. It was completely counterintuitive. We had to unlearn everything.
Is it intelligent?
Intelligent beyond our comprehension.
Then it's God, right?
It's something.
You still don't believe in God?
The whole idea of God was dreamed up by a silly animal with a small brain called Man. Even the limits we put on it are human limits. It can do this, it can do that! It designs, it creates!
Even a God that wasn't active, that just created something and stood back and watched?
You're talking about a man in a white beard again. You're ascribing human characteristics to something that isn't human. Human beings look for causes and patterns. How could we know what Solaris is up to, if anything?
But what if Solaris is what there was before The Big Bang?
As I said, it is beyond our comprehension.
As I said, then it's God, right?
What happened?
You were trying to break down the door. Do you know why?
When I saw you were gone I got scared.
Where've you been?
I been thinking about how much I hate you.
I would have these  I don't know how to describe them  visions, when I was younger. Maybe not visions, but like these waking dream states. Time would just collapse, I would be inside time. I would stare at a second hand on a clock until it stopped. Freaky stuff.
How old were you?
Seven, eight. So one day my mother catches me sort of staring off into space, and she asks me what I'm doing, and I start trying to explain to her, about this state that I can put myself in, and this look comes over her face.
What kind of look?
Scared. No, not scared. Wary. Like I was something to be... her guard went up. I was a threat. Now I know why. She was afraid she'd be seen. That I would see her for the selfobsessed neurotic that she was. I think she thought she had a few more years of being on a pedestal. But that's the cycle, right? I knew a little more than she did, she knew a little more than her mother, and on and on. I guess that's part of the reason why 
I know. I know. We don't have to talk about that.
Thinking what you were doing and saying, just being consumed by thinking of you. I loved it so much, that feeling.
I did too.
What happened to us, exactly?
You don't know?
Why did you say those things?
I don't know. I couldn't understand why you didn't tell me.
I can't help feeling that I'm cheating when I take them.
It's genetics. You know this. You know where it comes from. There is nothing wrong with uncrossing a few crossed wires.
Do you have any idea how much I like fucking you?
I think so.
Good. Because I want you to know. I really like fucking you.
I like that too.
How could she not be real? I can smell her, taste her. She does exactly what she did... it's not possible.
You know, I've decided: I'm just gonna believe what you believe about this whole Solaris thing, it'll make life so much easier; the little wife agreeing with her big, strong husband. You must get such a headache thinking about those Great Big Problems all day.
You sure say "God" a lot when we're doing it.
I know. I'm putting that in my next report.
What does Snow think you should do?
Snow thinks we shouldn't leave until we figure out a way to document it, to prove its existence to the planet Earth. This is hilarious: He thinks it's God, but he wants it to sit still for a photograph so he can show the folks back home.
Sartorius wants to destroy it.
Well. He doesn't think it's God, but for different reasons than me. He's thinking: If I can figure out how to make it stop, than I am smarter than it is, and therefore it cannot be God.
He has a point.
He does have a point. That's just not the way I'd like to see it proven.
You feel sorry for Solaris, or for me?
It's a violent response to something we haven't figured out. Don't let the cowardly demeanor fool you: He is ruthless. Unblinking in his prejudice.
It was obvious from the way he first looked at me.
Do I really feel like... I am...?
Yes. Yes.
I'm glad.
What's wrong.
You don't love me.
Stop.
What are you talking about?
That I am not Rheya. That Rheya died. Killed herself. I'm different.
Who have you been talking to?
Sartorius.
When? When I'm asleep?
I'm sure there are worse people to talk to, but I don't know who they are.
I'm just trying to understand what's going on.
But we fought.
Yes. Especially toward the end.
Why did she do it?
You... she said I didn't love her.
Was she right?
No. I love you.
I love you, too.
Can you sleep?
I don't think do. It's not sleep; it's something else. It's all around me.
Those are dreams.
You're the coward.
Don't debate him; he'll say anything.
I'm just as human as you. I see, I hear, I touch, and I feel just like you do.
You don't want me.
Rheya.
That's what you were saying. I heard what you were saying.
For a reason that neither of us understand, you are forced to stay near me. That's all I know right now.
I have these strange thoughts, I don't know where they come from. I can't explain it.
Neither can I. Not any of it. There's no reference point for what's going on; it's never happened before. It's a clean break in the fabric of the Universe; a gap. There is nothing to do but experience it, momentto moment, and not let it destroy us.
But that's what happened before.
Not this time.
Do you want to stay here?
Do you?
If you're here.
What's wrong?
Gibarian. He was here.
You said he was dead.
He is. But he was here...
What's happening to us?
It's all right.
Please don't lie. I told you before, I don't know how I came to be here. Whatever you think you can't say to me, I need to hear you say it.
I love you.
Don't. I'm the one at risk here. If we're playing out what happened before, I won't survive.
That won't happen again. We're different.
How can I tell? You've seen both of me. I only know what you're like here. You're all I know. There is no "You" from before.
How could it be so cruel? How could it torture us like this?
I don't think it knows it's torturing us. It's just watching.
I'm not Rheya. You've always known that.
Rheya 
Don't call me that.
Listen: I don't care about anything but the fact that you are here. You are her, you are Rheya.
I'm disgusting.
No.
You're lying. I'm not human.
Rheya, I am not going back. I'm staying here with you.
Then you'll die.
I want every second I can get with you.
Don't do this. I am literally begging you not to do this. Chris.
You should have told me.
It wouldn't have made any difference.
Thank you.
Chris, I had to. I had to. I didn't think you'd react like this.
Neither did I.
You never said you wanted one.
I never said I didn't.
Chris 
I can't stay here.
Chris, please. Chris, I'm serious. I won't make it.
Then you won't make it.
What do I have to do to stop it?
I want you here.
You're lying.
You exist here. I keep telling you.
That's impossible. I'm not Rheya.
Who are you, then?
I... I am Rheya. But I am not the woman you loved ten years ago.
Yes, you are 
Did you hear what Gibarian said? I'm not a human being. I'm an instrument. I came from your memory and your imagination and I will torture you no matter what. Even if I remain passive. That's when I drank the... I was going mad. It felt like there was no body underneath my skin. There was something else. An illusion. But I could feel my heart beating, and I remembered you tested my blood. Is it like yours?
Yes. I told you. It was exactly like mine.
But then I would be dead now.
Is that really what you want?
I want to stop taking those pills.
I wish you wouldn't.
They do something to me. It's hard to think straight.
I think they help.
I have consciousness, but I am not mortal. Don't you see why I'm going crazy?
You have to remember that I love you, that's all that matters 
I can't 
It put you here. I'll admit it, it acted like a God and put you here, put you into my consciousness. I was asleep, and it put you into my dream. I saw your mouth. And there you were. Whether you've been sent here to make me happy or punish me, it doesn't matter. The decision we make now is all that matters. Stay with me.
Am I really her?
I don't know anymore. All I see is you.
What are you taking?
A sleeping pill. Do you want yours?
What does it want?
I don't know. Something. Anything.
I've decided that if it is God, it's a sick God. Its ambitions exceed its powers, but it doesn't realize it. It's created a situation without a goal, and I hate that. A God whose passion is not a redemption, who saves nothing, fulfills no purpose. And us? We would have to have "an arrangement". An unspoken understanding that I am not human. How can I not hate something that does that?
Please. Don't.
Where did you go before?
When?
Last night. You were talking to someone in the corridor.
You must have been dreaming.
How can you be here...
Shhhh. Just stay with me. Stay with me. Everything is forgiven. Everything.
What's wrong? What happened to Gibarian?
He's dead.
How?
You didn't bring any chocolate, did you?
What?
I love chocolate. I realized just yesterday how much I love it. I thought maybe, if they let you bring personal effects, you might have snuck some through, because... well, I've been thinking about it.
I can't talk just now. I'm too tired.
Where's Sartorius?
In his lab. He won't let you in.
He'll let me in.
Kelvin, if you see anything unusual...
Is there anybody else here?
Why, who did you see?
Gibarian warned me. He left me a message.
Who was it?
She was real. Where did she come from?
Tell me. I won't think you're insane.
Oh, that's a relief.
How much sleep do you need?
How much sleep?
How long can you go without sleep?
That depends.
Well, when you do go to sleep: barricade your door.
Was her breakfast conversation that bad?
Shut up.
I told you, try to stay calm. You're supposed to be the psychologist of the bunch.
What was it?
Personally, I think it's God. At least, it fits my definition.
And professionally?
I'm not sure. It started with Gibarian. He locked himself in his room and refused to talk except through a crack in the door. He covered the video lens. Obviously we thought he was having a nervous breakdown. I don't know why he didn't tell us he had somebody in there. By this time, we were getting visitors, too. He was desperately trying to figure it out. Day and night. Who was she?
My wife.
Dead?
She has materialized from your memory of her. What was her name?
Rheya.
It started about three months ago. Right after the government sold the expedition. We were ready to go home.
Will she come back?
Probably.
I wish you'd told me.
Told you what?
What will you say?
To who?
What are you going to report back to Earth?
I don't know.
An enormous amount of money changed hands to get control of this project. We are in little danger of being left alone for long. You'll need to do something. Otherwise they'll be sending someone out to recover you.
Gibarian said he thinks Solaris should be destroyed.
That's ludicrous. This is contact. We have found God. The only issue is figuring out how to prove this in a way that will make sense back on Earth. So how will we describe it, if we choose to describe it at all?
Kelvin, you awake?
What is it?
Can you meet me and Sartorius on B deck in an hour?
Why?
Just a little strategy session. But in person this time.
Is it being deliberately cruel, you mean? I don't think so.
I'm just trying to find an explanation for the continual reappearances.
When you cut yourself pounding the door, did it hurt?
You're unnerved because you've spent your whole life thinking nobody is looking over you, and suddenly your subconscious is an open book. We are, for the first time, experiencing changes in natural reality by a force not our own. That proves that 
 we are not sure of that. We are not sure we aren't all hallucinating.
If God is beyond our comprehension, and she   is here for reasons that can't be understood, isn't God here?
Not necessarily.
Stop equivocating! Unbelievable, how you equivocate! You, the atheist, you're more dogmatic than any holy person I've ever seen! This is happening, Kelvin. Wake up.
Consciousness is enough, that's all I've saying. Consciousness should be enough for anybody.
Who are you trying to convince?
We can liquidate the station. Take the Athena back.
No.
Of course, when we return, we'll be regarded as lunatics if we tell the truth. We'll chalk it up to isolation, collective derangement.
I've never heard you express any desire to leave before now. Why now?
Well, I think we're reaching the point of diminishing returns here, right? Certainly it's learning more about us than we'll ever learn about it.
But why is it doing what it's doing? Given it's resources, it could have done anything. Presented me with your double, and you with mine.
Perhaps it did.
Human beings can die.
But they are human. They certainly become human with incredible speed. First they're like they were in our memory, but then they fill in on their own. DNA doesn't determine the hundreds of trillions of connections that occur in the brain, it's not dense enough. They build up with experience.
They come when you sleep.
That's right. And we all have to sleep, eventually.
What happened?
She drank liquid oxygen.
Why do you think she hasn't suggested that? It's the most obvious solution: Escape. She knows she can't leave here 
Get out 
Oh, this one you love? What about the first one, the one you fucked and then put into a rocket and blasted into space? You didn't love her?
She knows everything. She knows who she is.
She knows everything? Does she know she came once before and you put her in 
No.
What do you want?
I want you to get Sartorius to abandon his plan.
What plan?
Just get him to stop.
What do you want to do, leave the station with her?
Yes.
Kelvin, she'll disintegrate. You don't believe me? Let's radio that shuttle pod you launched  better yet, let's go get it. I've charted it's trajectory, only take a few hours...
Her oxygen would have run out.
Maybe she doesn't need any. Should we check?
Who are you trying to please? Yourself? Her? Which her, this one or that one. Can you face both? We are in a situation that is beyond morality. So: Leave with her. You'll see the transformation.
Into what?
You'll see her die, that's all. They're mortal, despite what she told you. She will die. Then what will you do?
I love her.
You do, you don't. She's willing to give her life, you're willing to give yours, it's touching and magnificent, anything you want but  this isn't the place for it. Don't you see? No, you don't.
What's wrong with you? We need your help.
I won't be making the trip.
When did this happen?
Oh, right away. That's why you never saw me with anyone. You should've noticed that. I miss him, though. I think I made a mistake.
Jesus...
But I can't leave with you. I won't make it.
Maybe you can.
You have to give me your word you won't come in. Then I'll come out.
All right.
What happened to Gibarian?
Didn't you talk to Snow?
I want to hear your version.
Who, here, could possibly care what you want? At best, you're Employee of the Month for the highest bidder in the Solaris auction. They have no idea what's going on up here. They've never even been in space. And I'm supposed to listen to you?
I am here to recover this mission, report my findings, and make a recommendation. Now: What happened to him?
The same thing that could happen to any of us.
Where's his body?
In the lab. With her, probably.
Her? Who are you talking about?
They shouldn't let people like you into space.
Just so you know: I'm not going back until I understand what it is. I am going to figure out what it is, make it stop, and then I will go home.
Listen 
We're done. Oh, I should tell you, I don't trust Snow. There's something wrong with him.
No. There's no behavior modification.
She reappeared exactly as she had before?
Meaning Man can do whatever the fuck it wants?
Yes.
That's fantastic.
Why did you agree to come here?
You killed her!
Not her. It.
You murdered her!
Kelvin, she begged me. I had a short range version of the destabilizer prototype, a miniature with a range of a few meters. She walked into it and disappeared. She was gone.
She'll come back.
No, she won't.
Why would you let her to do that?
It's not human, Kelvin. Whatever it is, it's not human, and I am threatened by that. Evolutionof thespeciesatstake threatened. And I want to win. I want humans to win. So I am killing it before it kills me.
You fucking bastard...
Whose side are you on?
It's changing characteristics. It's solidifying taking on weight.
How quickly?
If it continues, it will implode from its own weight and turn into a black hole in about four hours and pulls us in with it.
Where's Snow? Did you call him?
Yes.
Gibarian.
Leave the light off.
You think you're dreaming me, like you dream her. Understand something: I am the real Gibarian. Just a new incarnation.
What do you want?
You're being tricked. Sartorius picked a fight with you to avoid telling you about his idea for getting rid of the visitors. He's figured out they're made of subatomic particles called neutrinos, and he's going to create a negative neutrino field. Twenty four hours a day, until they're back on Earth.
Can it work?
It can. Ordinary matter, like ours? Not affected. Everything else, disintegrates.
What I'm saying is: Don't trust anyone. Find yourself a weapon of some sort.
I can trust Rheya.
You'll end up like me.
You're not Gibarian...
No? Who am I, then?
A puppet.
And you're not? Maybe you're my puppet. But like all puppets, you think you're actually human. It's The Puppet's Dream. Wondering if they're human!
Bulllllshit...
Naw baby, they heard about that Triad hit, the work ya'll put in and they recognize the skills. And this ain't no tryout, tapdance "show us your shit" thing neither  if ya'll want this then I'mma go git it for 'ya.
And so I get this straight, we gotta go in, bust on this punk and remove the heart? Is that for real?
No, no, no, y'gotta go in and get him, pull'm out of wherever he at, forget all that other shit, that's just f'flavor. I'm still getting lil' bits'a thisnthat from this cat Padiche, the man contacting me... Right now, what we got   Is a number and a name... Buddy Israel.
What else did Padiche say?
He said that the shit could get hot, could get heavy... I said good. 'Cuz I got two of the hottest, heaviest bitches alive.
Fortyfive apiece for you two, ten percent finders fee for me.
What's the time frame?
Right mafuck'n now girl. Fast as we can get you there. We wait any longer, someone goin' dead this fool.
We gotta lay something out, strategy wise. Somethin' tight. Y'go in there adlibbing, it's y'ass.
What are we talkin' on the split...
Why?
'Cuz we don't need to draw any more shit down on our heads. We hit whoever's between us and Israel. I don't want to dead the whole floor and I don't want to be killing women no matter how they make a living.
Wait, I'm getting some fucked up feedback off that earpiece 
Nuthin', we cool. There was somethin' about a fed being in the building.
A Fed? Like FBI?
It's just a little casino inspection, don't trip, he's alone. Alright, let's set this spinnin'...
When them tricks hit the lobby, holla at me and I'm gonna meet them on the way up, blend in. Once I get inside, I'mma put m'Nina to Israel's head and back out hot. Anybody's fucks with that program, y'break 'em off. They get gully 
I'mma grip and rip girl. I got some handloads here ready to cut heads.
Jus' remember, this is more rescuin' shit than rampagin' shit... What are you shootin'?
...Girl, y'know I had to bring big mamma through.
You got the fifty up? Bitch y'tryin' t'take down a jumbo jet? Blown the moon out the sky? T'fuck you wanna get that grimy?
The try t'wild out on my boo and it's on and crackin'! I'm layin' niggas out.
Damn, this kevlar ridin' up on me, I wish they made this more sheer.
...So you heard from Keith? He still fuckin' with that 'lil lightskinned girl?
I ain't tryin' to break a sweat for that sorry ass nigga.
He a dog babydoll. He a great dane. I tried to tell y'after ya'll first date. He hit that ass one time, his interest in a bitch start t'landslide.
You know I burned all his shit. All that vinyl. Chalamar, Funkadelic, I burned his turntables too. They was like threethousand brand new.
Fuck that nigga. Let him go woof on some other scrub. We got one another, s'all the love we're ever goin' need.
Girl, lemme ask you somethin' and I want you t'tell me straight up, since I got my suspicions and y'know I ain't one t'talk circles... you gay?
What!?
Ain't nuthin' wrong wit' it.
Damn! Why you trippin' like that?
 I don't know, I feel like you always pushin' up on me, gettin' close and I love you baby, in every way you can love a bitch, 'cept that one.
I ain't even goin' dignify that. You my road dog. We threw up sets. Plus you stank.
Fuck you.
What'd you say?
Not you. Some assholes on the elevator... are these bitches on a permanent smoke break or what? Why the fuck they call'm "working girls."
Are you anywhere near the penthouse?
No, but that definitely sounds like shots and I don't where it's comin' from 
 It's your IFB, somebody else has got an earpiece, you're picking up their signal 
 I thought we had secure frequency. Aww girl, tell me this mafucka ain't goin' off right now.
What's wrong?
Security's locking down the elevators.
I'm not givin' it up jus' yet...
C'mon, I say we bounce now, kick it for a lil' bit, play some craps. ...Maybe spend the night?
...Shhhhhhit... girl, there's these two dudes, just sittin' here in this elevator, all shot up...
What?
They musta been beefin' big time with one another, cuz this shit, got way past words, whatever it was.
...What are they doin' right now...?
Girl one of these fools has an FBI badge on him! Is this the one that was doing the inspection?
Hold up, hold up, I'm getting shots over the scanners, tons of traffic  jus' chill for a sec, lemme listen...
I DON'T KNOW!
Jus' keep doin' y'damage girl, keep these mafuckas off my as
Georgia on my mind wit'yo fine ass. You know you saved this black man.
You know I did baby... And a deep, dark one at that. Now if you ain't a dog, which you don't look like 
 never in a million girl 
 good, then all you got to be is grateful.
No doubt. That's my moms there, taught me them skills.
You love her?
My mamma? C'mon shorty, y'gotta ask? You hurtin' pretty bad?
Got hit twice.
It's going around ain't it? Mafuckas catching bullets like the common cold up in this bitch. I think I accidentally shot and killed my boy today.
Well, if it's any comfort, I's goin' in to there to act a fool baby. Straight rockin' heat and slayin' niggas 
For real?
Mmmhmm... and your boy very well mighta been one of 'em.
True?
Like a mafucka.
That takes some of the sting out.
I probably woulda busted on you too... and what a shame that woulda been.
I feel like I know you girl. I feel like I've known you forever. You gonna lemme see your scars?
You do the right thing. Sit with me while I heal, let it develop slow.
What were you doin' here anyway?
'Spose to kill this fool named Buddy Israel.
Buzzy... Buzz...?
Yeah... Sid?
You got clicks, anything?
Nah, nuthin' on my end 
 Okay... hang on, I gotta move 
Alright, now Buzzy  this is, this is it, here, okay, so listen to me careful and wait till I'm finished 'cuz we got no room for slop.
I'm here.
Okay, he's gonna clip Israel, I just gotta outta there 
 he's doing it then, huh 
 yeah, now lemme finish, I was eavesdroppin', so give me sec, lay this thing out, since the information might be a little loose 
 okay, g'head 
So what I heard downstairs there is that they got a guy, some Swede, real badass, supposedly a "specialist" and they're bringing him over. Now he ain't coming cheap  so, I'm thinkin' we jump, do this in the next day or so, get to Israel before the Swede can, we got chits, y'see? We're in a power position. Grab him, ransom him back, pick up that nut, we're that much closer to having our own thing.
No question, no, you're right. We gotta do what's good for us now.
Fuckin' A, first survive, yes?
Y'gotta, y'gotta. But d'ya think they'll kick ransom for that little prick, assuming we get to'm.
Yeah, y'ain't heard the punchline, yet and before I get to it, one more thing I heard, little curious, should probably bring it up... Primo wants Israel's heart. The actual thing, the organ.
... Jesus... what for?
 who can say. He's off his onion, y'know, he's old school Sicilian, this is how they hate.
Wow.
Hey, we nab Israel, they pay t'get'm back, I'll cut the fuckin' thing out m'self, no extra charge. My thing is, we crew up, let's not fuck around, someone's cousin, some Zip off the boat from Naples, let's get pros, people who know how to behave.
Yeah, there's a pair'a broads I'm thinking might be good for this.
Chances are, they're gonna get into some shit too, hafta put people down.
That's not a problem. Are we goin' outta pocket ourselves?
Yeah, I can front this.
Well just so I got a quote in my head. What's the rate for the Swede?
That's the punchline, y'ready?
Shoot.
A million flat.
No shit.
None whatsoever.
Buzzy... Buzz...?
Yeah... Sid?
Right, you got clicks, anything?
Nah, nuthin' on my end 
So how we lookin'?
Good. This thing's on track, looks like it's gonna get done.
Fuckin' thrilled t'hear it. So the scout, the sitdown, y'musta felt it from 'em then huh?
Cold blood Sid, dead eyes, y'know?
Lil' cagey, y'know, don't like t'share trade secrets, that type'a thing.
Okay  yeah, I can, I respect that.
How are we on time...?
Well, I'm hearin' the Swede's been dispatched, he's flying so 
Well, uh  damn, alright, so he's headed in, does that  where does that leave us?
 No, no, not when y'can see the shore. I hear ya.
Okay, well, y'know, then we just gotta get Israel.
I'm working on it.
Bag this fucker Buzzy.
It's gettin' done Sid.
Sparazza is rumored to have performed in excess of onehundred and thirty contract murders, including one of the bureau's most celebrated agents. Freeman Heller. You heard of "The Turnpike Murders" that was Sparazza.
I thought Heller was a double op?
So he's personally issued the contract on Israel?
Sparazza was the one who introduced Israel to the life, gave him his first big break, brought him through the ranks.
A marked man gets wise and wants to come in.
His testimony has the potential of blowing the lid off what's left of the La Cosa Nostra is this country. That alone warrants total immunity from prosecution and and a vanishing act with Witness Protection.
So the wiretaps we conducted on Serna and Padiche, the mention of Israel's heart?
 Your intel corroborates what we already know. Sparazza's health is in rapid decline and before his date with destiny, it seems he wants one last thing... The heart of his sworn enemy. A recently opened, cash rich escrow account has been traced back to Sparazza. This and the mention of this mysterious Swede makes the million dollar contract on Israel very real.
On an extradition flight back to El Salvador, he murdered a security detachment and vanished.
You think it's possible he could be involved in the Israel hit?
Possibly. Acosta is pure mercenary. And a million dollar hit fee will draw some huge flies. But forget about Sparazza's money for a moment and remember, there's no shortage of those who want Israel killed and no shortage of cash to do just that...
It's the last place they'd look.
Israel's legal representation, the firm of Culpepper, Brody and Reed, which is currently the subject of a joint SEC and Treasury Department probe, were left holding the bag after he skipped bail. Over three quarters of a million dollars on a bond that's set to expire in less than a day. Rupert Reed, one of the firm's partners, has learned of Israel's whereabouts and dispatched a local bondsman by the name of Jack Dupree to pick him up and return him to Las Vegas... that can't happen. We have a Gulf Stream standing by at Reagan International to transport you two to Lake Tahoe. It's very simple gentlemen. Valacchi, Fratiano, Gravano  no former witness against the mob has been as crucial or has brought more to bear on the potential dissolution of The La Cosa Nostra, than Buddy Israel.
Here. Sit. Please.
This is him? The hitman hired to kill Israel? He's a doctor?
Difficult to explain everything now... And much larger issues loom. I'm sorry about Carruthers... Damndest thing to have to die for.
What the hell  What is this!? People died. Agent Carruthers is dead!
We have to transport Mr. Israel to Las Vegas, time is of the essence. The gulfstream is standing by on the jetway at Tahoe International. I'm sorry, I'm restricted from disclosing anymore information. Return to Washington. You'll be debriefed in the coming days.
Where's Israel?
What are you doing here?
My debrief 
 will be handled back in 
 no, we need to handle it now.
I can't discuss 
 You can and you will.
You're finished.
And you just figured that out? The Swede isn't a hitman, is he? He's a surgeon. Sparazza didn't want Israel's heart for a trophy, he wanted it for a transplant... why?
...A paternity suit, filed 1967...
 Brought against Sparazza by Israel's mother Laverne who was nineteen at the time. They had a brief affair which Israel was the by product of.
...Does he know?
...He does now...
Sparazza was in failing health and looking for a donor. The son who had betrayed and burned him so thoroughly seemed a obvious choice.
So all of our intel was bogus to begin with.
Yes. The actual contract went to Lazlo Soot, the man that plunged to his death from the Penthouse yesterday. He was to neutralize Israel's entourage and prep for the removal of his heart. Ingstrom was to handle the surgery itself onsite with the assistance of Dr. Gregory Gill, Israel's personal physician, who was also on the Sparazza payroll.
...When did you know all this?
Information was arriving all day yesterday. When we finally figured out who Sparazza actually was, we 
...Are you insane?
...Almost. What do you mean "who Sparazza actually was..."
You realize that Sparraza has had thirtysix major medical procedures performed on him since 1953? Elective plastic surgery, every single one 
It wasn't elective. It was undertaken to save his life. And it wasn't cosmetic, it was reconstructive... Look at the date of the first procedure.
...Yeah, fiftythree.
The same year that Sparazza murdered Agent Freeman Heller...
...holy shit... that's Heller... Isn't it?
Primo Sparazza was Heller's alias. He went deep cover in 1940 and stayed under for over ten years, amassing materials against the mafia and other criminal syndicates. He may have ripped the organization wide open, preAppalachia, but his superiors were convinced that he had gone rogue, swapped allegiances...So they gave the order to terminate his cover.
The agents of that era are all dead and gone, history had defaulted to fable... until now. You can imagine the shock this sent through the corridors of power in D.C. Heller's op predates the second world war. That's over sixty years of intel. Do you know how valuable that could be? The man's a treasure trove.
...So you made another deal?
I wouldn't go that far.
But you did, and have... And now people are dead. Did Sparazza become more valuable than Israel... and did you make another deal?
You're trying to save Sparazza?
No... We're trying to save Heller.
...So you knew all this and yet y
 We needed cohesion to move forward. Not conjecture.
...while Carruthers and a dozen others lie dying, you debate semantics. The Bureau's betrayed us... The way they betrayed him...
I don't see it like that at all.
I'll overlook what you've done here today in light of what's taken place. You've been fully debriefed. Now I want you to return to D.C. immediately and make no further inquiry into this matter. I mean it. It's closed.
No... It's not. What it lacks... is an end.
They're gonna give on this in the next ten seconds or the deal's off!
I dunno what to say to you sweetheart, it is what it is.
Bullshit it is. I said, about as loud as I could say it, "no jail time for my guys."
Baby, I've been cohabitating with these people for the past thirty odd hours and in so doing, have stared into the face of hell. These are the premier prick cocksuckers of all time and I feel beaten by them, I feel bloodied 
 and you're gonna feel altogether fucked, by me, if you don't handle this. I'm the one, does the face plant, this falls apart, not you.
And I vibe that kiddo, I do indeed, but it's one'a those fait accompli things, you have to 
I don't have to do shit! Which includes cooperating any further with these motherfuckers until I get what I want! Alright, fuck it, if we gotta hand 'em somebody from our end and they're being hardons about it  make it Hugo, him I don't mind. He needs that regimented thing that prison provides 
 Buddy, it's bigger than that, they want 'em all, Ivy, Beanie 
 this isn't a swap meet Morrey, they're getting Sparazza and the west coast syndicate, giftwrapped, now if that's not good enough 
Buddy, they revoked the deal, they pulled it...
They what? What? No. No. Why?
The Deputy Director, this prick Locke, he smashed the whole thing, we're done, they won't tell me why...
Fifty grand gouge. South shore hayseeds, this is why I never play Tahoe, or redneck Reno...
We're hot, and they're losing a whole floor's worth of business saying it's "under construction."
Alright, bag it, I'm not shelling out that kinda bread for this shithole, this is a junior suite in Vegas. Call Mecklen right now, he should have his cell on, I need an update. Get the Russian up here, have him clean this place, floor to ceiling and get us packed. ...And send out for some new skeeze, the sun's up, these ones are starting to stink...
That's probably him now...
...See, this is one'a them rare moments when y'ass get a chance to be completely honest... and if I'm asking you what you said to Mecklen, assume the shit is rhetorical... so assume I already know.
Y'ain't never had to wash another man's blood off, dig it out y'fingernails... Y'had us for that. Y'ain't ever made a real beef on y'own, shit as light in the ass as you are, I'll bet you ain't ever made anything more than a fuck'n fist your whole life. So if you think I'mma let your lil' punkass, with the dirt I've done for you, in the eleventh hour, sell me off like some fucking field nigger, hand me up to the Feds like y'last chip, then you done gone straight outyourmotherfucking MIND!
That's Mecklen. The deal's closing. I can pick that phone up and I can work this out. You'll walk with me.
FUCK YOU!
GET IN HERE GODDAMMIT!
D'you talk to'm?
I got his machine.
What'd you say?
I said I got his machine.
No, what did you say on the machine?
I left him a message.
I know you left him a message. What did you say!
Jesus Hugo! How is it that you can turn a simple conversation into a fucking hedge maze!? This is zero degree of difficulty man!
Okay.
Then why are you still looking at me like I'm asking for the square root of something! What did you say!?
I said that we were returning his call and you were real concerned, because he sounded real concerned.
Look at that, we didn't have to fill up the whole blackboard after all. Now, do you know anything about that?
About what?
Look at the collar on that coat...
I dunno... Cinnamon roll?
Cinnamon roll? No, good guess though. No, Hugo that looks like jizz... And I'm no forensic expert mind you, but that looks like some fuckhead shot their load on a twelvethousand dollar calf's skin jacket. The twist? It's My twelve thousand dollar, calf's skin jacket. So y'got semen, human ejaculate   that's been allowed to soak in for what, six, seven hours now? Work it's way into the fabricfuck'n fibers  and while you may never see it in a Tide commercial, I think it still safely qualifies as a "tough, deep down stain."
I could have it sent out...
...to what? Incinerate? 'Cuz I'm almost dead certain there's not a fucking laundry detergent or dry cleaning process known to man that can ever return that jacket to its former glory! Some shit, suffice it to say, just don't wash out. Now, the money question... To whom does that stain belong?
Do you want me to say I did it?
I was kinda hoping, yeah.
Do you want me to say I'm sorry?
Only if you really, truly mean it.
...I'm sorry...
Are you a fucking colossal idiot?
I am. Yeah.
Without peer?
I  uh, yeah, I guess, yeah.
Answer your fucking pages! I've been calling for fifteen minutes, we need you up here to clean NOW!
That's right! RIGHT NOW!
What happened?
The Teamsters had a reform measure going to ballot that didn't sit too well with the local syndicate. Night of the polling, big blacktie todo downtown and the Tremor Brothers crash the party. Literally.
His law firm, same one that hired me. Israel walked out after he made bail and nobody's seen him since.
Jack, if the rumors hold and Israel is really the great white whale of snitches, then the mob is looking to put all kinds of bullets into his ass and pour some serious psychotics into the mix to do just that. So what real incentive is there to track him on something as smalltime as a skip trace, when it's putting you and yours in the path of severe pain and suffering and an almost certain prelude to doom.
So I guess you're not going.
Shit, if you're on a crazy jag, why stop there, why not take Fort Knox with a fucking slingshot or go into Hell after Hitler... I like your chances a lot more.
I know his location, we've got the drop of a maybe half a day before that location gets grapevined and the rest of the world gets hipped.
That's already happened hoss. It's naive to think otherwise.
Yeah, we've been through that.
Then quit acting like somebody shit in your cereal bowl. Reed just gave us fifty grand.
 Jack, what am I doing? I'm standing here, aren't I? Shouldn't that be enough? That I made the trip?
Your attitude sucks.
I been accused of worse. What do we got...?
Two security levels, the one we're going in under the guise of, hotel security, has restricted access. They're mostly there to monitor the lobby, handle disturbances on the different floors and toss out drunks. There's a thirtyfive member employee rotation going from graveyard to day shift. If we split up, we can blend in and enter unnoticed. Once we're inside the hotel, we'll regroup.
Then what 
Are you on a land line?
Yeah, why.
I've got concerns.
...About what?
About cocaine... and the amount you're doing.
I'm not doing cocaine.
Buddy, I'm not an ethics professor, I'm a physician, be honest, or be dead within a day... s'your choice.
 Forget about the tissue damage you're doing to the heart itself. Sustained cocaine abuse will segue you from a very painful ventricular fibrillation into full cardiac arrest. Buddy, nobody knows about your condition, or your drug use. Why you lied to me, knowing that I'd find out anyway, I'll never know, but it imperative now that I see you.
That's not possible. I told you.
There are certain meds, certain intravenous measures that can counteract some of the damage you've done, but I'd have to administer them myself.
Won't work, we're just gonna have to chance it man. I'm sorry.
No. Sorry comes later, when you're in a partial coma with ambulatory paralysis. Sorry comes when we have to decide which of your limbs have to be amputated because severely constricted blood flow has brought about a gangrenous infection, sorry 
 Fine, fuck, I got it... Lake Tahoe, Nevada. I'll have Hugo book your flight, you can be here in a couple hours. He'll meet you at the airport.
I'm here, where's the car?
I sent Hugo, he should be there!
...I forgive you Darwin.
Shoot, I appreciate that man.
If I needed your I.D. and your car and me and my brothers were wanted by the law, I woulda killed you to get 'em too.
You woulda?
Oh hell yeah. We's just in the wrong place at the wrong time. So don't feel so bad dude.
Damn... alright then.
I don't mind now anyway. You know, up here in Heaven, it's beautiful. Way better than fuckin' Hawaii or any place like that.
Really?
I'm glad I'm here. I love it. I'm gonna get laid by some fine ass angels and then go hang out with Jesus and them.
Man, that's great.
I got it made in the shade Amigo. Hey, I'll see you up here some day, don't worry.
You think so?
You investigating those murders out at the lake?
Ww... uh...
Three men were ambushed and shot, two died and had their bodies tossed into the lake, the other has severe hypothermia, possible dementia and will probably be a multiple amputee by week's end... if he even lives that long.
Yeah, shit  hell, you're right. I'm sorry.
You shot me and murdered my friends.
I did. We  yeah, I know.
And threw us into the lake.
Pretty much, yep.
And this is your car, isn't it?
Mmmhmm.
But there were more of you?
Yeah, m'brothers... They didn't make it.
Two of 'em?
Thass' right. I got other brother's though, so it ain't so bad.
You were here huntin' a man named Israel, weren't you? Your name is Tremor.
Yeah, ye I  uh, there were, earlier, there was that guy Carrut
 Agent Carruthers. Do you know where is he now?
He uh  he asked about  I'm  he wanted to know whic what floor security was on, then I saw him get on the elevator with the other agent.
Wait a minute, what other agent? What other agent?
Did he give you his name?
Yeah, uh  it was Spanishsomethin' Garcia, or Diego, uh 
 run both those names through the D.C. database. Call San Francisco, see if they've got anybody in the field doing collateral inquiries for 
 he was wearing one of our jackets.
Who?
The other agent. He said he was here to do an inspection and later, when he got on the elevator with the other guy, Carruthers, I saw him wearing one of our security jackets...
This man wearing the jacket identified himself as an Federal agent?
Uh, yeah.
You're sure?
Yeah, he had the badge and everything. It said "FBI" on it.
And when you saw him later, he was wearing one of your security jackets 
Yeah.
And that didn't seem odd to you?
Anything on the Swede?
Only the mention made in that phone call. There's no Swedish hitman of any renown, much less one with a million dollar day rate.
Maybe he's that good. Never been caught, no criminal record.
Maybe.
I tell you, engineering this kind of play against Sparazza, going to the lengths these guys are going to... they're playing some long odds.
And a very bad gamble.
Well... This is as good a place for it as any I guess.
Spotter on the lake confirmed Israel. Penthouse level. There was apparently a fisticuffs with some prostitutes. He wasn't involved. He's also had his people phone a local madame for another group of girls.
No rest for the wicked. Why were we never shown these files? We're sitting on Sparazza for what? Six months now and we're just seeing this? Did you know that he's has had thirty six major medical procedures performed on him since 1953? Elective plastic surgery, every single one 
Unreal, this guys jacket too. Wall towall major felony offenses, murder, extortion, arson, grand larceny   A paternity suit... I just feel like we're playing catchup with all this and we shouldn't be.
Welcome to the new Bureau. Nobody shares information anymore, it's become synonymous with job security.
Based on what we had, I thought Sparazza was a midlevel player at best and it turns out he's this mob relic, running the show out west.
But the Bureau knew Sparazza killed Heller. Why not go after him, guns blazing' for that one?
Heller was buried in agency lore, anytime an operative failed or was perceived to have failed, Hoover blackballed their memory. Look at Ness.
Yeah, but the Untouchables took down Capone. Heller got shot and killed. The bad guys beat him. Worse, Sparazza walked.
So he has no idea what's about to happen?
No. And I want to be in that room a half second after Mecklen calls to say the deal's done. We've got a sheriff's task force on standby.
What about the hotel staff obstructing us. Israel's obviously paid off the management.
Tampering with a witness extraction of this magnitude makes everyone indictable at the federal level. Trust me, we won't any problems with the hotel staff. You show 'em your ID with the letters "F.B.I." in all caps and it's instant compliance. I've seen in happen a hundred times.
He's giving them up?
All of 'em. His entire entourage. I think we should move.
Did the Justice lawyers sign off?
That's happening in about ten minutes. Israel's at optimum risk of flight right now, so we can't wait.
What about the sheriff's task force?
Have them mobilized. I'll phone security and have the elevators locked down and stairwells secured. We need to keep Israel sequestered in that penthouse.
Deputy, have you made any ID's?
Get a coroner's estimate too.  Miss, I've been transferred and I was disconnected. No one is answering and I need someone from security to pick up that line. It's urgent.
Maroon uniforms?
Yeah. Have you been able to get through to the Nomad's security?
No. I'm going over there. You take the car from there, get out to the lake.
How bad?
Mortal.
No.
Yeah.
It's gotta be tough keeping an eye on everything.
And everybody, all the time. Yeah, it's a chore.
So, Bill, if I understand this right, you currently have your penthouse floor under construction?
That's correct.
But with these down, doesn't that pose a major security concern if, as you say, you have to keep an eye on everything at all times?
Well, we were worried about dust and debris from the work being done ruining the cameras, so
 so you shut them off?
Yes, but no  we have personnel stationed at both ends of that hall, twentyfour hours a day.
What kind of personnel?
Right now? A six man security force, plus a member of our Butler staff. So seven men total.
You have a butler working that floor?
Uh  well, yes, uh just in terms of the men up there now, my team, he's serving lunch and dinner and just doing general upkeep so 
So there are no guests staying on that floor?
C'mon Bill... you've got some Sultan up there, one of your whales, big spender, likes a lot of space, you cook up this "construction" thing...?
No, no, no. We've been looking to renovate that area of our hotel for some time now. The security team is only present to preserve floor integrity, due to the roof access.
Is your security team armed?
Of course. Yes.
And who has access to that floor?
 Breaker, this is Banana Peel...
 Yeah, Breaker go head on.
 Thanks much. I'd like to get me a Smokey report?
 Road looks clean as a hound's tooth.
 Okey, doke. Last one to the Roadeo is a homo.
 Breaker, Breaker. This is Banana Peel.
 Yeah, Banana Peel, go head on.
 Did ya hear they nailed the Bandit?
 Yeah, I heard. But they won't hold him for long. Anyway, he sure gave them sumbitches a run for their money.
Is that Bandit in the lead?
If that sumbitch was in the race, he'd be in the winner's circle by now.
I still think this whole idea is dumb, pop.
Then it must be a helluva idea.
Why don't we just rent a Lear jet and haul it back ourselves?
Because I wanna see this hot shot Bandit do something that can't be done. Besides, there's nothing I like better than breaking legends.
But if it can't be done, how's he gonna do it?
That's the point, Dickey.
Oh.
Now, you just find him, son.
Yes, sir.
Five thou.
Chickenshit money.
That crazy sumbitch made it.
Congratulations. You just became a legend maker.
Listen, pardner; this ain't no time to be getting laid.
Believe me, that won't be a problem.
This is Bandit I. Over.
Where the hell are you?
Smokey was on our tail. We had to take a detour to ditch the motherfu...
Shut up, Fred.
Who's Fred?
Bandit II. We'll be back on the highway in a second. Over.
I'll keep my eyeballs peeled.
Yeah, Bandit II, Que pasa?
That's a Texas bubble gum machine on your back porch.
What's he...
I'm Kate. You must be Cledus.
Yes, ma'am.
How's your twenty?
Bandit two, you read me?
You're soundin' real bodacious. Back.
Gimme three sloppy joes and a coupla cups of hot stuff.
You pass that funky Cobra on the highway?
Uhuh. What Cobra?
Some boy named Bandit's been givin' the Highway Patrol shit fits.
Oh, yeah. Good for him.
I don't know where he's goin' or what he's doin', but I sure hope to God he makes it.
It ain't ever been done before, hot shit.
See, running Coors Beer east of Texas is what bothers me. It makes me a bootlegger.
I think you're just yellow.
Wonderful psychology. Why don't you say something about my mom? Excuse me.
Pop, a KWhopper's worth seventy thou.
Seventytwo five. Why do you want this barley pop so bad?
He's thirsty.
Have any trouble getting here?
About one to five years worth.
Breaker. Breaker.
Go breaker.
Bandit, I just thought I'd lay a Smokey report on you.
Go head on, breaker.
I would say your future's looking dim, boss.
What's your twenty and what's your handle?
My handle's Smokey Bear and I got you by the tail.
My handle's Silver Tongued Devil and I'm here to tell you, your fellow CB'ers are mighty proud of y'all.
Thanks much, Silver Tongued Devil.
Breaker. Breaker.
Pick it up, Breaker.
Thanks for the break. Bandit, this here's the Dixie Chicken.
What's up, Dixie Chicken?
Breaker, Breaker. This is Bandit I, coming up on a portable gas station. Do you copy?
Bandit, this is Mister B, and I'm gearjamming this rolling refinery. You got another Smokey on the rubber?
What else? Can you give me cover, Mister B?
Cledus.
No.
Wake up, man; I just got us a hot run for big bucks.
Whadda we have to do  kidnap the Pope?
How'd you know?
Twentyeight hours! You're outta your gord.
Is that any way to talk to your ole partner? Look, it's only nine hundred miles each way.
That means we gotta average ninety four miles per. Forget it.
No one's ever done it before. This'll put us on the map.
Or in the slammer.
Did I tell you they're gonna give us a brand new Kenworth?
Waynette!
Believe me, man; Fred'll be no problem.
Yeah, I can tell he's gonna be a major asset.
You know of course, we ain't ever gonna make it.
Quit being so negative, guy; 'course we're gonna make it. We ain't never not made it, have we?
No.
See.
Our asses gonna be in a sling if we get caught.
And if we don't, they're gonna be riding high in a brand new Kenworth.
How long's this gonna take?
I don't know, man. Ask him?
We gotta let the slack out, Cledus; this is costing us time.
If you ask me, I think we should make that run to Choo Choo Town and pick up that load of lumber. Nice. Easy. And within the law.
Also boring.
But I still don't think...
What are you doin' now?
Running blocker.
All right, here's our plan of communication, so as to avoid Smokey.
Go.
Now, if I say go to channel three, it really means go to six.
Six. Got it.
If I say go to twentyone, go to nineteen.
Twentyone is nineteen.
If I say go to two, it's really one.
Two is one. Listen, let's just stay on the odd channels and switch everytime. Start in the basement. Now, let's haul ass.
You're wall to wall and tree top tall.
I'm gonna run a couple miles ahead of you. Keep both feet on the floor. We'll be moving ninety and over.
Bandit?
Yeah?
Why are we doing this?
Because they said it couldn't be done.
Loud and clear.
Pull your hammer back, Smokey's coming at you.
He's history.
Okay, we got a straight shot to T Town, so let her roll.
Shit! No one's here.
That's 'cause we're damn near an hour ahead of schedule.
Let's keep it that way.
Liquid gold.
Redneck heaven.
You know how to drive one of these things?
Can a pig whistle?
Hit the brakes!
They're jammed!
Let's get the hell outta here.
Shouldn't we pay 'em for the damages?
Right. Give me your pen. We'll tell 'em to bill Kyle.
We still on schedule?
Fortytwo minutes ahead.
I hate to say I told you so.
Save it. We got a long haul.
Clear and rolling.
Bandit I, do you copy?
This is Bandit I, come back.
You can't swear on these.
What's going on, Bandit? Come on.
Tell him we'll be back on the highway in a second.
This is Bandit II. Now, where the hell are you?
On two lane blacktop. Mile marker sixone. How we doin' on time?
Thirtyeight minutes ahead of schedule.
What's your twenty?
I'm 'bout four miles ahead of you, turkey.
Not for long, you ain't.
What's a Texas Smokey doing in Arkansas, man?
If I knew, Cledus; I'd be on College Bowl.
I hope that's you, buddy; 'cause I'd hate to start believing in ghosts.
What does the old Timex say?
She's losing minutes so you better start running interference or we're never gonna make it. Might I remind you this was your brainstorm.
I'll drop off my fare, hit a quick chokeandpuke and be blocking for you pronto.
Bandit?
Yeah, guy?
Pick up a burger for Fred. He's going crazy.
My vocal cords are fine, but Fred's ain't. He's been barking, eating the seats and driving me crackers. Hear that? Where's his chow?
On its way. Give me a coupla minutes, okay?
Do I have a choice?
What's your twenty?
'Bout fourteen miles this side of Mississippi.
I'm still trying to ditch this Texas Smokey. I don't know what the sucker wants.
What they all want  to handcuff a hero.
As far as John Law knows, I'm just a joy ridin' Georgia redneck. We keep 'em outta your backyard, we're cool. Now just give me five to ditch this idiot and I'll meet you in Ole Miss.
If you don't, we can kiss that Kenworth goodbye.
 Gimme a twenty, pardner.
I'm at marker eightfive.
Sonofagun. Me too.
I thought you were dumping the chick at the truck stop.
I ran into complications.
I hate to say it...
Then don't.
 But everytime we've ever messed up, it's because your rhyme's over ruling your reason. I know you think you're God's gift to waitresses, but...
Just don't worry about it. How we doin' timewise?
Not good enough to be standing here shooting the bull.
We're gone.
Bandit?
Never mind. It's nothing.
Anything else you don't want me to know?
Nope. Just keep those wheels churning.
Bandit two, I gotta make a quick pit stop.
Now what?
We're outta motion lotion.
I'll keep streaking. Pick me up.
 Looks like a clear shot to the 'Bama State Line.
I'll believe it when I see it.
I'm all ears, good buddy.
You're gonna hit some heavy precipitation in about six minutes. Better let your flaps down, these roads are killers when they're damp.
It shouldn't last. Gives me time to take a gogo juice break.
We'll be waiting. Over.
Ran into a little hassle at the eatum upstop.
You okay?
Just fine. What's the weather like?
God's back on our side, so let's get smokin'.
Roger. Keep the shiny side up and the greasy side down. Right, Fred?
 How we doing?
It's gonna be close. Real close.
Talk to me.
We're gonna have to do a little tightrope act.
Let's boogie.
I'm all ears.
You're about to hit a convoy. Tighten up your rubber band. The oncoming's clear.
Bandit II?
I'm here.
You're coming up to the scale house.
I'm cucumber cool.
Bandit I, let me offer my heartiest congratulations and a piece of advice.
What's that, pardner?
Don't take that foot off the hammer, 'cause you got walltowall Bears about to pour over you like maple syrup.
How's the clock, Bandit II.
Ticking away, but it looks like a clear shot to Hot Town. Green lights and white lines all the way.
Are you loco, pardner!?! We've come this far.
Yeah, but...
When we agree to do a job, we do it. Right?
But they're waiting for me. They don't even know Cledus Snow exists.
Well, they're gonna. It's time this gearjammer rode to glory. Now, move aside; good buddy. I'm coming through.
What's your pleasure?
Couple of cheeseburgers, no condiments...
No what?
Nothing on 'em and two cups of mud; one while I'm waiting.
Order up!
That's me.
Sure I can't interest you in anything else?
Another time.
Why should I?
Because I need your help, sweet thing. And I need it bad.
I'm working, Bandit. Besides, what's the matter? Won't your new girl friend help you?
Hot Pants, please. I'm gonna be flying by in about five minutes with Smokey on my tail. Can you lock it off behind me?
What do you want me to do, Hot Pants? Beg?
Yes.
I'm begging.
I want you to know I'm doing this against my better instincts.
But you'll do it?
I'll do it.
I owe you a big one, Hot Pants.
You sure do.
Okay. I was in Texas dancing in an industrial show for Sunkist Oranges. They say I'm the new Anita Bryant. But I'm really a dancer from New York. A lot of credits. Moderate talent. Anyway, after opening night, I was walking back to the motor lodge and suddenly there he was. A tall Texan with a twentynine inch waist. Pure dynamite.
All sound reasons for matrimony.
Look, I'm a twentyeight year old hoofer who spends most of her time with fags. Besides, I'm impulsive. It runs in the family. We're all crazy. Mind if I smoke? Anyway, today was the 'bid day.' But as I was walking down the aisle, I realized this is total insanity. What am I going to do in Texas the rest of my life? I can't marry Jerry Jeff. I mean, we're eventually gonna have to talk. So, halfway down the aisle, I turned and split. You think I'm nuts, right?
Absolutely not. In fact, I picked up a bride yesterday; except she was a singer.
Kate McConnell.
Kate McConnell. Sweet, shy... well dressed. I'm giving her a lift to the next waterhole.
Why're you driving so fast?
I gotta get back to Atlanta in thirteen hours.
Why? You have a bowling date?
Cute. No, 'cause no one's ever made it from Atlanta to Texarkana and back in twentyeight hours.
Who'd want to?
I never looked at it that way. You ask a lot of questions.
Why are you doing this obviously macho feat?
For a new Kenworth. That's a truck.
A truck? You're doing this for a truck? That's insanity.
It's not a truck. It's the Rolls Royce of eighteenwheelers.
But you could get killed, right?
Hey, you could get killed crossing the street.
An existentialist.
A what?
Eyes on the road.
So tell me about yourself.
Okay.
Well?...
Whaddya want to know? My sign?
No. I want to know what you think about besides ditching Smokey?
Having fun.
Is this fun?
Driving?
Driving, talking to me...
They're both a challenge.
You have a great profile.
Yeah, I do. Especially from that angle.
Where you from?
Mattoon, Illinois. But I moved down south to work in the Civil Rights movement.
Seriously?!?
Would I lie to you?
Guess what?
I give up.
You just passed your nemesis.
What the hell's going on?
I forget to tell you. I'm running blocker for four hundred cases of illegal brew.
Anything?
We're cool. The dumb schmuck took the wrong turn.
Can I ask you something?
Shoot.
What do you want to be when you grow up?
You know, you're not a bad driver.
You know, you're not a bad passenger.
That's a Texas cop. What the hell's he doing in Arkansas?
I don't know. Maybe Jerry Jeff sent the heat after us.
A Texas Bear in Arkansas. Something's up and at this point in my life, I don't want to know what it is.
You know, my mother was a dancer, too. Her big shot was the touring company of 'Brigadoon.' She's been married three times. To a redneck, a poet and her tennis instructor. See, I motormouth when I get nervous. I was nervous when I first got into the car. Now I'm scared shitless.
Believe me, there's nothing to be afraid of.
Well?
We lost him.
Your honeymoon would've never been this exciting.
I don't know. We were planning on seeing the Astrodome.
Christ, what channel are we on?...
Eleven.
The bus'll pick you up over there. Uh... you got enough bread for a ticket?
Enough to get to Jersey. I'll walk the rest of the way. I've been sitting a long time. Nice meeting you. It's been a trip.
Hey...
Enjoy your Kenworth.
Jesus!!!
Trucker coffee. It's three times stronger. Good for a hundred miles. That, a coupla perks, and you can leap tall buildings in a single bound.
See ya, Kate.
Ciao.
What the hell are you doing?!?
He's after us again!
You know this guy, don't you?
I've never seen him before in my life. I'm just trying to help you out.
By stealing my car?
I would've come back for you.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Look, the truth is, I didn't want to be dumped at the truck stop. I wanted to go on with you. I needed an excuse.
You could've asked.
You might have said no. I have trouble handling rejection.
Where did you learn how to drive like this?
Like what?
Mississippi's the other way!
You want to lose this putz or not?!?
 You know, I used to be a high fashion model. Tried it for six months and almost freaked. Makeup, silly clothes, a little man saying 'darling' every two seconds...
Yeah, it's tough when your cheek bones are your main asset.
Uhoh.
Let's hit it.
Nice meeting you, Cledus. Keep on truckin'.
You plan on driving trucks all your life?
No, actually I was thinking of becoming a brain surgeon.
 Trucking ain't the easiest life in the world. I mean, you can't make it much past fifty and you sure as shit don't get a gold watch when you hang it all up. But I like keeping on the move. You know?
Do I know? I'm an authority on it.
I guess if there's one lesson I've learned, it's that even misery has a tough time hitting a moving target. I forgot your question?
You plan on driving trucks all your life?
I... uh... I don't know. I guess don't like to think about it.
Then let's change the subject. What do you think about forced school busing?
An unmarked police car.
How do you know?
I know. Bandit two, bring yourself on in.
I'm sure the Arkansas Bears put out an allpoints.
You take the front, I'll take the back.
I'm proud of you.
Yeah?
You only smoked three cigarettes through the entire state of Mississippi.
Kate...
Ummm?
I been thinking. Maybe I should drop you in Montgomery. I mean, the way things are going, it might get pretty hairy by the time we get to Atlanta.
Forget it. This is one of the longest relationships I've ever had. I'm not blowing it now.
 Actually, my heaviest relationship was with a rock singer named Ramblin' Bobby Holt. When I turned twenty one, I went to Europe with visions of being free and independent. My luck, he was on the plane. I landed in Paris and fell in love before I could claim my baggage. We were together for almost a year. I thought he was it.
And?
He wasn't. One day I came home and found him taking a shower  with another girl. And her sister.
My very words.
Well, that's what you get for falling in love with a guy who's first name is Ramblin'.
They should arrest people for obeying the speed limit.
Bandit II?
 It's hard to believe this schmuck Kyle would go to such lengths for Coors beer.
It's not the beer. He just wants to see me fail.
What kind of a guy is he?
The minute you see him, you'll know.
What are you gonna do when you get home?
Sleep for a week. Wanna join me?
Why are you stopping?
Weight Station.
One to five?
Maybe six months with good behavior. One to five.
Well, at least it hasn't been boring.
Well, thanks for the lift.
Hey...
What can I say?
Promise me you won't fall in love with an inmate.
He's just exhausted.
That man is your father?!?
I should've told you, but you would've thrown me out, right?
Absolutely.
Listen, he's nuts. I mean certifiable. But believe it or not, he once looked great in Levis. That's why my mother married him. But like all good things... I know what you're thinking.
What are you thinking?
You gotta admire the man's determination.
See ya, Bandit.
See ya, Kate.
Aw, ain't you glad to see me, Bandit?
Yeah, it's the highlight of my day.
What's he get if he wins here?
If...?
I can't believe there's two thousand people here to watch a bunch of guys back up their trucks.
America's bored. Now, what do you want?
You to forget this dumbass Roadeo and take on a real challenge.
You're crazy, man. Smart dresser, but crazy.
What's the matter? Legend has it Bandit LaRue's king of the road.
I can make it to Texarkana and back in twentyeight hours... that's no sweat.
I hear a few weeks ago you smuggled sixteen Beaners up to West Virginia.
You know how rumors start.
Look, you make this little run for me, I'll buy you a new rig.
Last year, this was a new rig.
But it wasn't a Kenworth.
I got a boy running in the Peach Tree Classic tomorrow and when he wins, I wanna celebrate in style.
How much style?
Four hundred cases worth. Well?
You paying for the gas?
You got my barley pop?
What do you think?
Just the man who's gonna see you driven to your knees! Sheriff Buell Clayton from Texas.
Not that I don't have any respect for the law, but what's your problem, man?
You.
Yeah, well I kinda figured that.
You know, you may think you're gonna get away, but I promise you, everytime you turn around, I'll be there, breathing down your neck.
Well, if your breath is as sweet as your personality, I got a lot to look forward to. Adios.
Get your hands off my daughter!
Your what?
Ain't no mystery to it. She's raised in them shanties off St. Luc. Dirtpoor.
Golddigger, huh?
So he drags the cow backwards here. Only he prolly didn't know 'bout the Castavets had them dogs.
Hey, look!
Where'd he go?
We ain't never gonna find that girl now.
Praise Jesus.
'Praise Jesus?' That's fucking pushing it, Margaret.
Maybe you better sit back down. You don't look so good.
Margaret.
But not always. I was  He was... other stuff too.
What other stuff?
Now he's here. He went in Mr. Grant.
Through a wound on his stomach?
He took him over. His body. His  his brain, everything what he knew. He's only been dumb stuff before amoebathings, and rhinothings. He liked being human. Didn't want to change.
And you said the worms are part of him. They're all linked, like one creature?
When one sees you they all see you.
An animal that doesn't procreate. It spreads, grows. A living disease.
He's teaching environmental science, Grant. Probably wants to borrow my lesson plans from last semester.
Oh yeah, that's what he wants to borrow, this guy.
It's just a work thing.
Work thing hell, Starla. He just wants to get in your pussy. Him and most these other ones around here. That's where their minds is at, them sick fucks.
Grant, no  I'm sorry, I'm just  I'm not in the mood. Grant is on top of her, breathing a little too heavy. GRANT Come on, baby, it's 
I'm sorry. I don't just have some switch.
Sure you do.
Flip.
That's disrespectful.
Where are you going?
I'm just some big clown to you, ain't I?
That's not true  Where are you?
Out.
I never danced in a towel before.
Wearing white, just like on our... wedding day. I remember it.
Welcome home.
Grant? Why are there  did you put locks on the garage?
Yeahhhh. I'm sorry. I just got so excited about... your present.
My present?
You're my princess, aren't you?
Okay.
I got a superspecial birthday present for you this year. I couldn't risk you finding it, so I had to put them locks on the doors.
What are you doing?
You're pretty.
Who's that?
It's just one of my students, Grant.
Grant. Oh my God. What happened to your  ?
Heh. It ain't as bad as it looks, sugarplum. Dr. Carl was just here. I had a reaction to a bee sting. He gave me a prescription. Said I should be fine, in a couple days.
I'll get if for you.
No! No. Heh. I'll be right back.
Why'd you betray me, sugarplum?!
Grant, no!
I loved you. I loved 
Grant, you're sick!
Meat.
Howdy, Mr. Grant. You goin' to the Deer Cheer this weekend?
Sure thing, killer.
What can I do you for?
Thinkin' 'bout getting me a couple of these big ol' rib eyes.
How many you need?
Hell, what am I holding back for? Why don't you just give me everything you got here?
All the rib eyes?
Yep. And while you're at it, get me a few of them chicken wings... some pork loins... and, ooo, what's this here? Osso buco?...
Megan Halesy' little sister.
Shit. You're kidding me. Nope. BRENDA Brenda! GRANT Hell, you were 
My sister Megan, she's a big fat cow. Was then, even more so now. I'd be thinking, what'd you see in her ain't in me?
Shit, girl, you couldn't'a been eleven.
Hell, I was game!
Who's the lucky fella?
Fuck lucky. Never marry a damn halfMexican.
Already ain't. Married a gal named 
Starla Covington. Don't be ignorant. Everyone knows that. Fucking prom queen.
You're lookin' awful pretty.
Shut up.
Where's the old halfMexican?
Took the kids to his Mom's for the weekend.
Guess it's hard to explain how amazin' a human brain is to someone who that's all they know.
What?
Stuff you can never imagine. Feelings. Big thoughts. And love. Yeah. I'm inclined to parlay it into somethin' more. So, go ahead there, beautiful, and take off your shirt.
Grant? Grant, I'm hungry. I'm so fuckin' hungry I think I'm gonna die.
Brought you munchies.
You dig that rat out of the hole?
Listen, you got any reports of... I don't know what you call 'em. They look like big slugs, only fast.
Slugs? No. 'Less you talkin' about that new waitress down at Sloan's! Ha ha!
Shelby 
Oh, shit! I hope she ain't a police radio aficionado. If so, I apolog
Shelby, shut up. Keep an eye out for these things. If you see 'em, keep your mouth covered. Otherwise they'll go straight down it. All right?
Are you nodding?
Yeah.
I can't hear when you're nodding.
Sorry.
We'll be there in ten minutes.
Shelby, we broke down on 22, a mile outside town. Come pick us up.
I got to leave my post.
Do it.
Hey there, Chief.
Shelby! We need people out here at Cosgrove and McCammon right away!
Don't worry, Chief.
Surprised you're able to lift a mug after carrying that torch for so long.
Hey, Wally. Glad you're here. There was something I wanted to tell you...
What?
Oh yeah. Fuck you, fat ass.
Some kids found her necklace near Tipper Creek, as well as what might be her blood on a rock.
The problem, Starla, is, the last person anyone saw her talking to was Grant.
Rorschach.
What do you see? I see a butterfly.
Looks like a chipmunk.
Your momma wasn't too proud when you came out neither, Wally.
I think we best get you to a hospital right quick.
What the fuck they gonna do with her in a hospital, Bill?
What's she see in that douchebag?
That's the mystery of the ages there, Trev. Starla was seventeen when they got engaged. He was, like, in his thirties. No one even knew they were goin' out till she had that ring on her finger.
He's gotta be in the forest. All three ranches run alongside it.
Think we should get up a search party, head in there?
And then we get here, the Castavets', where last night's shitstorm took place.
I see. It's like as if he's going in a pattern. Is that what you're saying, Bill?
Where are you?!
We're coming your way, man!
He's a fucking Martian?!
A Martian is from Mars, Trevor.
When I buy my zoo, I'm leaving them things the hell out!
Shelby!
What the hell are we going to do?!
Just block the doors, any way you can.
Don't worry. The lurker ain't around. I checked.
That's not funny.
Sorry.
Whatcha' doin'?
Tryin' to get a buzz on. But I'm too buff. Too much muscle mass.
What you up to?
Just checking out the lights.
Pretty, ain't they?
I don't know. I've seen them so many times before. I guess any spot gets boring after awhile.
Well that's only if you're in the wrong spot.
There's a place over there on the bluffs. When the fog is just right, like tonight, the lights of Main look like a kaleidoscope.
Oh, yeah?
Mm hm. But only a few folks know how to get there. Wally. Rollo Linkski coulda taken you, but 'course he got hit by that train. Me.
I'll get Wally to show me sometime then.
Grant, where'd you go?
Hey, Grant.
Maybe she's ever called the house, or  ?
No. What?
She disappeared Friday night. We got reason to believe foul play might be involved.
How about Brenda?
New? No. We're hoping we find Grant, he'll lead us to her.
Bill, I heard what you're doing. I think I should go along.
Why? Listen, it doesn't matter. I gotta go.
Wait! Dammit, Bill, if that girl's still out there, how will you find her? How, unless you bring Grant in alive? Your best chance of doing that is with me. I can talk to him 
He tried to kill you, Starla.
He did. I know. But I got him angry 'cause I wasn't calm. This time I could 
Please, Bill. What happened, it's my fault, I know it.
Starla, it ain't 
It is. He'd been acting strange. And the physical changes. I should have told someone right away... But I was just blind. I wanted to pretend it wasn't happening... If I don't do what I can to help now, I just couldn't live with it.
No reception out here.
Bill, I'll run out to your car, call for paramedics from there.
Was always curious why you... married Grant in the first place... Just never seemed outta love.
I know what people say, Bill. I... Remember, back in high school I worked at my father's gas station?
Grant used to get filled up every day. I knew it was just to see me. He was too old  But he was handsome. And he had that big ol' Lincoln then. I flirted with him.
Well, big ol' Lincoln, sure. Guess I would have flirted with him too.
My father, he was  he was real close to evil. People didn't know. Still don't. From the time I was a toddler he'd beat the hell out of me. I don't mean just like a smack for smartmouthing... he took a real enjoyment in it. And when I turned eleven or twelve, things... well, they got worse. Starla looks at Bill, who seems struck.
When you wanted to run away, I called your dad.
That wasn't a good night, no.
I'm sorry.
After all this shit tonight, I know for sure now you regret not running off with me to Hollywood!
Hell, Starla. I always regretted that.
What are you doing?!
We can't make it. Just get away, when you get the chance.
What?
He wants me, Bill! I'm going to get him to take me to him! See if you can follow me, and kill him!
No, Starla! No!
We can probably get some first aid and food at this gas station up here.
Yeah. Good.
I'll get it for you. Ibuprofen or aspirin?
Aspirin.
We'll just head up here into Bishopville, get checked up in the hospital. Then maybe we'll head off to Hollywood after all, huh?
Okay.
Please, Starla. I'm gonna do my best not to hurt anybody 
You took Bill.
It's my nature.
And this is mine.
Bill, you're Chief of police now.
Comes with some Goddamn responsibility, like keeping your people in line.
You're right, Jack. Margaret, you're fired.
Shit.
Bill, we need to talk!
'Mornin', Jack.
Bill, this Brenda's Randy Flagg's niece. We need to find Grant yesterday! The town council has lit a Roman candle and stuck it up my ass!
Hell, Jack, your leisure activities ain't my business.
Don't fuck with me, Bill. Your post here as Chief is in dire straits you don't work this shit out.
How are you going to find him?
Dude's a halfsquid. Ain't many places he can hide. Sea World, maybe.
That young lady heard you say 'squid.' She's gonna go out and create a Goddamn hysteria!
Sherry, you gonna create a hysteria?
What?
Touch some deer feces out in the forest. Eat a sandwich without washing your hands. Then you got lyme disease.
And that makes you look like a squid?
I'll tell you what, no one with lyme disease gonna win any damn handsome contests!
Yeah. Great work, Rod. But next time, it would be nice... if you could JOIN US FOR THE ENTIRE SET!
I was getting 'warmed' up.
Hey. Anyone here need lessons, just talk to me.
Yeah, I'll teach you a lesson 
What is it?!!
Spider.
She's a Tarot Card Reader at a shopping mall.
What a surprise.  What about our audition?
Hold it, hold it. Aren't you forgetting something, Rod?
Like what?
Like your guitar break.
It's coming right up. After the third verse.
Second verse!
Jeez, what's the difference? Just 'cause it's rock 'n roll, doesn't mean it's be set in stone.
 Where have you two been?
Us? We been... moonlighting.
Where's Mac?
Who knows? Just like a man... never around when you need them.
Carl.
CARL??? Carl did this?!!
Last night... he tried to get it on with me.
Someone better tell Mac.
Why bother?
It gets worse. He's cut all the phone lines.
What'll we do?
Time for a little... "feedback" guys. That guy from Hectic Records 
Yeah?
 picked tonight to come by and watch our set.
You never told us you grew up on a farm.
Nothing to tell.
My father and I don't exactly see eye to eye.
About what?
Name something.
Then why go back now?
Still trying to figure it out myself.
What about Jeremiah?
Nah. Just you.
What's wrong?
This... used to be Jethro's room. The attic.
So?
When I was a kid... I was never allowed up here...
I'm talking to the spirit of Jethro Macdonald. Is it okay to have sex in your old attic with your grandson? We'll be careful of the bed 
Let it go.
I bet if he were still alive, he'd like to watch.
Think of it... as a threesome. You. Me. And... "Jethro."
I said that's enough!
We're almost ready. What the hell are you doing out here?
I... heard something... came in here last night. Must have gone to sleep.
How'd you get that? Playing with your pitchfork?
Picked up one of those shears. Blade's razor sharp.  Where is everyone?
Getting ready.
Look. You want to talk about this?
I don't think so. Keith's about to use the rooster for target practice. Besides... you didn't seem too interested last night.
Strange... I can feel my old self coming back...
Mmmm  so can I...
You wouldn't understand.
You never had trouble communicating before.
Suzie 
Billy Bob's dead.  We were wrong  he didn't do anything. IIt's the scarecrow 
Wait a minute 
I... saw him  he tried to kill me  he's, he's  still  out there 
What are 
HE'S STILL OUT THERE!!!
 You're not making sense!! What "Scarecrow"?
You're... limping.
I hurt my leg. Diving away from the Harvester  it almost got me.
Suzie... No.
It's you. You and your father.
No 
You brought us here. And that morning I found you in the barn. You had scratches on your face 
Listen to me 
You sabotaged the bus! You kept us here... To die! First Keith, then Carl 
Suzie 
No Mac, please... I 
Don't look.
Mac... let's get out of here.
Don't you see? Whatever's going on... I'm part of it.
Get out of here.
No. Not without you 
The trap door. That's how he escaped the fire...
You've been... hiding him all these years. Helping him... irrigate the land. With blood...
...no... Mac... pplease...
Can't help it, Suze... family sticks together...
I almost thought for a second...
Never.
Shit!
Relax. He liked what he saw. Well, some of it. Enough to give us a showcase audition. One week from today.
Yes!
Which means we've got ONE week to start acting like a professional band.
Try taking a left after the next cow pasture.
Yeah. That sounds good. "Hang a left at the first cow patty, then make a right when you see porky pig".
Yeah. That's just the problem.
Tell me you checked the bus before we left, Carl.
You guys figure it out. I'm taking a break.
Yeah. Good idea. Go milk the cows, feed the chickens.
How does it feel, Keith?
Fuck you! Fuck all of you! I'm done kickin' it with cows and roosters.  And drinking moonshine with Johnny Cash! Senior AND Junior!
Is that right?
Yeah, that's right! I'm outta here  Y'all can kiss my city ass goodbye!... I'm gone with the wind.
Asphyxiation. Choked to death on a ham sandwich. Next.
Buzzzzzzzzzz. Sorry, wrong answer!
Chicken sandwich?
Bzzzzzzzzzt!
Fuck you! Who cares what sandwich the bitch was eating?
You wanna know the difference? The difference is that you're screwing up the song.
Yeah. Sure. I'm screwing up the song. You're the one who's been two beats behind since we kicked it off.
Jesus. What a bunch of useless zombies.
Who? Us?!
The audience!
Hey. Could you be a little more insensitive? We're on our way to a funeral for Crissake.
Yeah. Our own. I don't see why we got to go along for the ride.
You know what they say about men who need big guns...
Hey. Some Klu Klux Klan homeboy gets in my face, he gonna have a few extra holes in his bedsheet.
Down boy.
Who you callin' "boy?"
Yeah. Maybe I can pick a little cotton for da masta.
You got something against farm people, Keith?
Not at all. They lynched my ancestors, they smell like manure, they have sex with their relatives... and they all have two first names: "Bobby Joe" 
It's a farm, Keith. You're not supposed to shoot the rooster.
He started it.
You seen Mac? His bed hasn't been slept in.
What?! You mean... I slept on this couch for nothing?!
Hallelujah! ...Civilization... here I come!
Amen.
What the fuck you talking about, man?
He's right. You were behind.
Throw me one.
Not while you're driving.
 And keep your eyes on the road.
I'm admiring your costume. What "movie" are you going as again?
Sheena, Queen of the Jungle.
Never heard of it.
I'm not surprised. It's got a body count of zero. And no one goes around in a stupid mask, hacking innocent people to death.
You don't like my costume? Cool. I'll go with plan B. Which one you like better?
Is that all you ever think of? Suppose I was really hurt!
Dammit, Karen  I was just... looking for your pulse.
 By way of my breasts?
Ow!
What's wrong?
Nothing. I'll have us back on the road in no time.
Hey  Macdonald's farm!
Ray  I'd like to get to the club sometime before dawn.
What are you going to do? Shoot me?
Depends. You got some nerve intruding on a man's grief. I bet I could pull this trigger right now and call it justifiable homicide. Now: who are you?
You know who I am. You invited me.
I'm your son. And Laureen's son.
Ain't nobody mentioned that name on this farm for 14 years. My boy was taken from me... far as I'm concerned, he's dead. Now, I ain't gonna ask you again.  Who are you?!
Joseph Macdonald... Your son.
Joseph Macdonald. Damn right, boy. And don't you forget it.
I came back for the funeral. That's all.
Broke her heart you never visited... But I always said you'd come back.
I'll be gone again tomorrow.
...Guess it was her time to go. You can't argue... when the good Lord calls you home.
How... was she "called?"
Pardon?
Aunt Edith. How did she... die?
That old barn. After the fire... I rebuilt it nail by nail. Just the way your granddaddy would've wanted it.
This is his room... isn't it?
Was. You ain't afraid of ghosts, now are you?
I'll be fine here.
You got it wrong, boy. I'm not the monster you think.
Maybe you should tell that to the old lady you tried to hit with the shovel.
I wouldn't pay Jesse no mind at all. She's just a crazy old woman. Hasn't been right in the head since her husband passed away. Wasn't much right before that, neither.
She was talking about... a "harvest of blood"...
Old slave superstition. You sprinkle a little blood mixed with water on the crops, you get yourself a good harvest... So they say.
"Blood?"
You'll be back.
I don't think so.
You like it? Irrigation system. Your grandaddy built it himself. Saved the land from dying.
That's a good idea. Maybe we should have a little "talk" about grandaddy Jethro.
Sure. What do you want to know.
People say he was a murderer.
That's your grandfather you're talking about! I... know what people say. Heard it... all my life.
Then who?! Because someone wants another blood harvest. With human blood, Jeremiah! Just like Jethro! Who did he kill back then, Jeremiah? Farmhands? Transients? People no one would miss? "Crazy Old Macdonald!" But now... it's starting again, isn't it? Someone's picking up where Jethro left off!
 It's not me!
Who then, Jeremiah??  Who?!
It's time to make amends.
Amends...?
Think boy. That night. The night of the fire. At the barn. You were only six years old.
I 
Curt Cobain.
Shotgun. Suicide. Next?
Well, there goes our record deal.
Nah. We still got Billy Bob.
You're out of your mind, man.
I am not! I'm telling you, it's worth its weight in gold.
Let me get this straight... we're talking about manure?
The ancient Aztecs knew how powerful this stuff was.
Cowshit? Are you sure the Aztecs even had cows?
Are you crazy?
Sprinkled a pinch of manure in there just before I rolled it.
Hmmm. This shit isn't bad.
Manure... is life.
So... what does it do?
It harvests! It threshes! Look at these blades.
Should we be doing this, dude?
Metaphysical question, man.
"Old Macdonald... had "
" an AXE!"
"With a hackhack here "
"And a slashslash there "
Hi Suze.
He means moon shining.
Harvest moonshining!
Old Macdonald had some... MOONSHINE!
Yeah, man. You were wrong, Suze. My solo definitely works better in the second verse.
He's right. Nice guitar break.
Carl! Oh Carrrrl!
Come out, come out wherever you are!
We've got to call someone  get the sheriff
The Sheriff?! We don't need the sheriff!!! We need to get the hell out of here!
Motherfucking soundman! I couldn't hear myself sing!
I could. You sucked.
Hey. Fuck you.
Where's Jack? Anybody seen Jack?
Okay. My main man. Marvin Gaye.
Easy. Gunshot. Patricide. Next.
Wait a second. Did you say "patricide?"
Yeah. Marvin's old man gunned him down.
That's not patricide. Patricide is when you gun down your old man.
All right. "Fratricide". Minor technical detail.
Wrong. Fratricide is when you gun down your brother. You're out. My turn.
Fine. Be that way. Jim Morrison.
Died in the bathtub... if, in fact, he's really dead. Next.
Nike specials. Two hundred bucks.
Two hundred bucks?? Are you crazy?
"PeggySue" 
 "BillyJean" 
Damn! These are one hundred dollar Nikes!
I thought you said two hundred.
Gene.
Missed you at church this morning, Jeremiah.
You're not going to arrest me for it, are you?
Hell, no. But you missed a damn good sermon. "You can't hide a wicked heart from the eyes of the Lord."
Sounds familiar.
Book of Jeremiah.
Thought your boy and his band were only staying the night.
Bus broke down.
You know, one day I'm going to have to shut down that still of yours, Jeremiah.
Well, why don't you hold these as evidence in the meantime.
Looks like the alternator.
Yeah. It's the alternator all right.
How would you know? You're looking at my tits. Jesus, Carl. Your job is to keep us on the road!
I didn't do anything 
Hey, isn't that the preacher?
Find out what's holding things up. I want to get the hell off this farm.
Dammit, Carl!!!!
Sorry.
There's something weird going on here, Suzie.
No shit.
I'm serious. Get this. I had a careful look at that alternator. It's clearly been messed with... it's not wear and tear that caused that breakdown...
You're saying someone's trying to keep us on the farm...?
Not someone  Mac.
Come on 
Suzie, face it. The only "axe" he's picked up since we came here... is a real one. He doesn't give a damn about the band anymore... or about you.
Carl, what are you doing?
You need someone who can protect you, Suzie.
AAAAAAAAAAAA 
He should turn that music down. Jeremiah's gonna kill him.
Get off his case sweetie.
Where'd you come from? Groupies R Us?
Fuck you.
Fuck me? Fuck YOU!!
Bitch.
Slut.
Witch.
Tramp.
Hey! Don't use all the hot water!
Keep your shirt on! I'm almost done!
Bitch.
Bitch.
Let me guess. We're going on a "long trip".
Not according to these.
Rod... I have to get back to my job.
Someone actually... employs you?
I happen to be a professional.
Which street corner?
Hi.
...Hi.
...You any good with those?
You have a strong unfufilled desire.
Yeah. To get the hell off this farm.
No. This is something spiritual. An ambition.
The band.
Aha. The Lovers.
Not lately.
Suzie???
The hell with this. I'm coming back up!!!
I'd watch your step if I were you, son.
Oh yeah? Why's that?
You're standing in horseshit.
Just talked to Orwell down at the garage. Says getting a new alternator for your bus is no problem.
Alright!
Could take a little while, though.
What's a "little while?"
Two.. maybe three days.
Yo. "Billy Bob". Was I two beats behind, or what?
Nope.
See?
You were a beat and a quarter behind.
Fuck you! If you're such an expert on music, why don't you go get your dueling banjo and sit in on the next song?
I ain't never played a banjo in my life.
Okay, Farm Boy. Joke's over. You've been playin' me from jump street. Where's my Nikes?
Nikes? Whatthehail you talkin' about?
Listen to me, you banjodueling, country ass hayseed... I want my Nikes and I want them now!
You... think... I... stole... your... fancy shoes? I... wouldn't... be... caught... dead in 'em.
Your pa's waiting for you up at the house.
How'd he know I'd come?
'Course, some folks say 'ol Jethro shouldn't have been buried up here... with the rest of the Macdonalds.
Meaning?
Hell, he was your grandfather. You know what he did.
Maybe you don't want to remember.
What are you talking about?
'Course, it's none of my business.
Let's say today, we make it your business.
You ever hear of... the harvest of blood?
Superstition.
Your grandfather sure believed in it. Worked pretty good... too.
Chicken blood on the crops.
...Chicken blood? Who said it was... "chicken blood"?
...He doesn't get invited places.
It's our pleasure.
The last time was a Chuck E. Cheese party a year ago. He hid in one of those purple plastic tunnels and didn't come out.
Chuck E. who?
Cheese. It's a kid's place.
I work at an insurance place and at Penny's, so Cole can go to that good school.
J. C. Penny's?
Good for you.
I wish I could be like my momma though. She always knew what was wrong. Knew just what to say.
Yes, Cole?
They used to hang people here.
That's not correct. Where'd you hear that?
They'd pull the people in crying and kissing their families bye... People watching would spit at them.
Cole, this was a legal courthouse. Laws were passed here. Some of the first laws of this country. This building was full of lawyers. Lawmakers.
They were the ones who hanged everybody.
I don't like people looking at me like that.
Like what?
Stop it!
I don't know how else to look
You're a stuttering Stanley!
Excuse me?
You talked funny when you went to school here. You talked funny all the way to high school!
What
You shouldn't laugh at people. It makes them feel bad.
How did you?
Stop looking at me.
Stuttering Stanley! Stuttering Stanley!
Who!
Stuttering Stanley!
Sssstop that!
Stuttering Stanley! Stuttering Stanley!
Sssssstop it!
Stuttering
Shhhhhhut upppp you fffffffreak!
They're right here.
Oh.
What are you thinking, Momma?
Lots of things.
Anything bad about me?
It was Grandma's. It's not for playing. What if it broke? You know how sad I'd be.
You'd cry. Cause you miss grandma so much.
That's right. So why do you take it, sweetheart?
Sometimes people think they lose things and they didn't really lose them. It just gets moved.
Did you move the bumble bee pendant?
You didn't take it before. You didn't take it the time after that. And now, you didn't take it again?
Don't get mad.
So who moved it?
There's only two of us. Maybe someone came in our house  took the bumble bee pendant out of my closet, and then laid it nicely in your drawer? Is that what happened?
Maybe.
I'd give anything to have been there.
I'm ready to communicate with you now.
Communicate?
Tell you my secrets.
You know that accident up there?
Yeah.
Someone got hurt.
They did?
A lady. She died.
Oh my God.
You can see her?
Yes.
Where is she?
Standing next to my window.
Cole, you're scaring me.
They scare me too sometimes.
They?
Dead people.
Dead people?
Ghosts.
You see ghosts, Cole?
They want me to do things for them.
They talk to you?
What are you thinking, Momma?
...I don't know.
You think I'm a freak?
I would never think that about you... ever... Got it?
Got it.
She says she's sorry for taking the bumble bee pendant. She just likes it a lot.
What?
Grandma comes to visit me sometimes.
Cole, that's very wrong. Grandma's gone. You know that.
I know.
She wanted me to tell you
Cole, please stop.
She wanted me to tell you, she saw you dance.
Your eye frames. They don't seem to have any lenses in them.
They're my dad's. The lenses hurt my eyes.
I knew there was a sound explanation.
What was that you were saying before with your soldiers? Day pro fun.
...De profundis clamo ad te domine.
All your soldiers speak Latin?
No, just one.
What were they hiding from?
Oh, lots of things, I suppose. Bad people for one. People who wanted to imprison them. Hurt them.
Nothing bad can happen in a church, right?
I forgot your name.
Dr. Crowe.
You're a doctor. What kind?
I work with young people who might be sad or upset or just want to talk. I try to help them figure things out.
I got an award once. From the Mayor.
Congratulations.
Thank you. It was a long time ago. I've kind of been retired for a while. You're my very first client back.
You use needles?
No.
Not even little ones that aren't supposed to hurt?
No.
That's good.
I'm going to see you again, right?
If it's okay with you?
And Cole, next time I won't be late for you.
Next time I won't be scared of you.
We were supposed to draw a picture. Anything we wanted... I drew a man. He got hurt in the neck by another man with a screwdriver.
You saw that on T.V., Cole?
Everybody got upset. They had a meeting. Momma started crying. I don't draw like that anymore.
How do you draw now?
I draw people with smiles, dogs running, and rainbows. They don't have meetings about rainbows.
I guess they don't.
You want to ask me a question?
See, this is why I lose at poker. Yes, I do have a question.
Private Kinney's wife is really sick  she has something called a brain anism.
You mean aneurysm.
Yeah, Private Kinney needed to get back safe to take care of her.
Where should I look then, Cole?
Look over there.
I walk this way to school with Tommy Tammisimo.
He your best buddy?
He hates me.
You hate him?
You ever tell her about how it is with Tommy?
I don't tell her a thing.
Why?
Cause she doesn't look at me like everybody and I don't want her to. I don't want her to know.
Know what?
That I'm a freak.
You said the "s" word.
Yeah. Sorry.
Mr. Marschal gets real lonely.
What about Mrs. Marschal?
She died a long time ago.
...So your dad lives in Pittsburgh with a lady who works in a toll booth.
What if she has to pee when she's working? You think she just holds it?
I don't know. I was just thinking the same thing.
What'd you write?
Words.
What kind of words?
Upset words.
Think about what you want from our time together. What our goal should be?
Something I want?
If we could change something in your life, anything at all, what would you like that to be?
That isn't magic.
What?
You just kept the penny in that hand the whole time...
Who me?
I didn't know you were funny.
I forgot myself.
Your father ever tell you bedtime stories?
Yes.
Once upon a time there was a prince, who was being driven around... He drove around for a long, long time... Driving and driving... It was a long trip... He fell asleep... When he woke up, they were still driving... The long drive went on
Dr. Crowe.
Yes.
You haven't told bedtime stories before?
No.
You have to add some twists and stuff. Maybe they run out of gas.
No gas... Hey, that's good.
What makes you think that?
Your eyes told me.
I don't know how the story ends. I hope it's a happy ending.
Me too.
Dead people, like in graves and coffins?
No, walking around, like regular people... They can't see each other. Some of them don't know they're dead.
They don't know they're dead?
How often do you see them?
All the time. They're everywhere. You won't tell anyone my secret, right?
...No.
Will you stay here till I fall asleep?
Did you think the play sucked big time?
What?
Tommy Tammisimo acted in a cough syrup commercial. He thought everybody was selfconscious and unrealistic. He said the play sucked big time.
I know every child is special in their own way, but Tommy sounds like a punk. I thought the play was excellent. Better than Cats.
Cats?
Never mind.
Yes?
And the tiny hairs on your arm. Are they all standing up?
When they get mad, it gets cold.
Them?
Can I ask you then?
Yes.
What do you want more than anything?
I don't know.
I told you what I want.
I don't know, Cole.
Why don't you think about it for a while?
I have to.
When?
Soon. One week.
I'm going to transfer you. I know two psychologists that are exceptional
Don't fail me.
What?
Don't give up. You're the only one who can help me. I know it.
Don't cry.
It means I wasn't what everyone thought I was... I was a fake.
You weren't a paper champion.
Someone else can help you. Someone else can make you happy.
Dr. Crowe?
Yes.
You believe me, right?
Something happened, didn't it?
Yes, it did.
Are you wigging out?
Yes, I am.
We're not gonna start crying again, are we?
No, we're not.
What happened?
You really look better.
Maybe they wake up that morning thinking they have a thousand things to do and a thousand days left to do them in... And then all of a sudden, it's all taken away. No one asked them. It's just gone...
You have nice red in your cheeks now.
Do you know what 'Yo no quiero morir' is?
It's Spanish. It means... 'I don't want to die.' Not all the ghosts are scary, are they? Like Mrs. Marschal?
No.
What do those ghosts want when they talk to you? Think real careful now, Cole...
Just help.
Yes! I think that's right!... I think they all want that. Even the scary ones...
You believe now?
I believe both of you now. And I think I might know how to make them go away.
You do?
What if they don't want help? What if they're just angry and they want to hurt somebody?
I don't think that's the way it works, Cole.
She came a long way to visit me, didn't she?
I guess she did.
I wish I were somewhere else.
Where will you go, where no one has died?
Don't go home, okay?
I definitely won't.
I think we said everything we needed to say. Maybe it's time to say things to someone else? Someone close to you?
Maybe.
You were great in the play, Cole.
Really?
And you know what else?
What?
Tommy Tammisimo sucked big time.
On my way to the flea market in Amish country. Thought maybe you want to come. Show me how to buy at these things.
I trust you... Besides, I don't know if I'm up for the Amish today. You can't curse or spit or anything around them.
That's very sweet. I'm okay.
Do you think I should stop by on my way back? Show you what I got? It's not a problem.
You know that's probably not the best idea. I'll just wait to see them in the store.
Okay. Fine. Understood. I'm off then.
Don't step in the horse manure.
Thanks.
Mahogany. I'd say that cost at least a couple hundred. Maybe three.
Three? We should hock it. Buy a C.D. rack for the bedroom.
Do you know how important this is? This is big time. I'm going to read it for you, doctor.
Do I really sound like Dr. Seuss?
Wow. They called you their son.
We can keep it in the bathroom.
My God.
Do I know you?
Are you calling me?
What? You don't see enough of me at the store?
Why, Malcolm?
What, Anna? What did I do? What's made you so sad?
Why did you leave me?
I didn't leave you.
I just needed to do a couple of things. And I needed to tell you something.
Tell me.
Goodnight, Malcolm.
Goodnight, sweetheart.
Good morning, Simone.
Good morning, Mr. Taransky.
A star is...
... digitized.
You mean they buy it?
Buy it? They're paying for it. And around here that's how you really know they buy it.
Maybe he can.
Do you have any idea what this means, Simone? Our ability to manufacture fraud now exceeds our ability to detect it.
I am the death of real.
You are birth of... what? A Phenomenon. A miracle. A new era in show business. All I wanted to do was finish the film.
And now look what you've started. And now look what you've started. And now look what you've started.
Is that better, Mr. Taransky?
Yes. Yes, it is.
You did create me.
No. I... just helped bring someone else's dream to life.
Mr. Taransky, we both know I was nothing without you. I was computer code  ones and zeros.
You're right. You're right. Of course, one doesn't want to boast. It's a classic case of technology in search of an artist. That's all you've been waiting for, an artist with integrity, with a vision, who can see.
See beyond that irrational allegiance to flesh and blood.  See that with the rise in price of a real actor and the fall in price of a fake, the scales have tipped in favor of the fake.  See that if the performance is genuine, it doesn't matter if the actor is real. Once a performance is committed to film, the blood and bones are gone anyway. Only the spirit, the illusion remains. Besides, what's real anymore? These days most actors have digital work done to them so it's a gray area.
Are you ever going to tell the truth about me, Mr. Taransky?
The only real truth is in the work.
You know what I'm talking about.
Yes. Yes, I'm going to tell the truth about you, why wouldn't I...? Of course, with Hank's tragic passing, the secret died with him. I am going to tell the truth... after your next picture.
Speaking of which  this is the project I'd like you to do next.
Not, "Eternity Forever"? The legendary unproduced script that was too good ever to get made? I'd kill for that part.
I was hoping you'd say that.
You're going to get in a lot of trouble, Mr. Taransky.
Why do you have to bring that up? There's always risk  life's a risk. It's worth it. Besides, how could something so lovely be a crime? Well, I think we've done enough for today. You've been cooped up in there too long. How about you and me go out on the town? They're expecting us.
Hi.
Perfect. God, I'm so relaxed around you.
I'll do anything to please you, Mr. Taransky.
I'm sorry, I didn't catch that. What did you say?
I'll do anything to please you, Mr. Taransky.
Simone, are you there?
I certainly am, Mr. Taransky.
Let's take it down a notch.
 What you don't understand 
No one came in or went out just like you said, Mr. Taransky.
Good.
Is Miss Simone coming today?
She's already here. She arrived before you and she'll leave long after you've gone. Remember, under no circumstances are you or any other person to enter the set without my express permission.
What if it catches on fire?
Let it burn. Simone would rather go up in flames than give up her privacy.
 Nicola! How was your massage?
You're in breach.
 Is this about the new pages?  I made the changes you wanted, you're in virtually every scene 
It's not the size of the role, Viktor. Am I or am I not contractually entitled to the biggest trailer on the set?
It's the biggest on earth! I swear! It's a 50foot Airstream  they don't make them any longer than that.
Taller, Viktor.
Taller? What?
I beg you. You can't do this to me.
I had three other offers. I only signed on to this picture out of... loyalty.
Then show some. They'll shut me down!
It wasn't working anyhow. The scene with the thousand geese  I don't understand this film. I don't think anyone will understand it. I already put out a press release  citing "creative differences".
A lot's happened since we last saw each other.
Yes.
I never apologized properly for what happened on "Sunrise".
Thank you. It's not important.
After I saw what Simone did with the role  you know I fired all my people, went into rehab, took acting classes, changed my whole look. She really inspired me.
Would you like me to read?
Yes, I'd like that.
You know you're really very good. I take back what I said. I mean, you're really good.
Thank you.
You could play the lead.
But that's Simone's part.
Yes, of course it is. You know you have a line here. Not a wrinkle. Actually, more of a dimple. I've been thinking of incorporating something like that in Simone.
You'd cosmetically alter Simone to look like me?
No, of course not, you're right. That would be crazy.
Is it a jamming device?
Maybe he's talking to himself.
Taransky isn't that good an actor. No, they're taking special precautions. Some kind of new encryption.
Why?
Whatever it is, it's dark.
Dark?
Yes, very.
We've got our best people on it, Mr. Sayer.
24hour tail on Taransky?
Shutter bugs camped outside any place he goes, every concierge and maitre d' on the take. But this Simone woman is good.
Obviously the name isn't real  she's using an assumed identity, travels under a false name, checks into hotels with an alias. She never stays in the same place two nights in a row. Anything on the satellite photos? What about the fingerprints? What happened when we dusted that hotel suite?
Well, we got some of Taransky's fingerprints, a lot of your fingerprints... but none of hers.
Which means they're significant. Incriminating. Perhaps, criminal. She's hiding her past. She's hiding her past.
Of course  no one's that perfect, that pure. You know I had something on Mother Teresa. But then she died and it wasn't worth it anymore. I know how to flush out this Simone  a tellall story from her childhood.
My God, you've got one?
I will when you're finished writing it.
Am I wasting my time with you? When she sues to protect her privacy, she'll have to appear in a public courtroom to do it.
Long live the First Amendment.
Sometimes you have to tell a small lie to get to the bigger truth. As for a photo  if you can't do it, I know twelve million people who can.
Mr. Sayer...
What do you want  ?
Mr. Sayer, did we pay the million bucks yet?
 Cashier's check went out to our anonymous tipster this morning  worth every penny too. Who says there's no place for checkbook journalism? We'll be running stills of this for months, then release the whole tape  we'll get our money back  maybe show it on an exclusive payperview event. Do you realize what we have here? We have the only independent footage of Simone in existence.
We used to.
 I've been here before!  On my honeymoon with my exwife.
Is that why she left you?
It's a hotel.
I don't understand.
Could they have built that hotel since yesterday?
Do I know you?
Max Sayer  National Echo.
Don't you have a real story to write? Why aren't you in Latin America?
This is the story.
I remember when the Echo had class  the paper that could bring down governments.
Our leaders aren't presidents anymore  they're pop stars and screen idols. If Woodward and Bernstein were alive today, they'd be right here in Hollywood with me.
They are alive, Sayer.
So they're probably here. You might be able to sell this 'disappearing act' to the rest of the world, but I'm not buying it. What's really behind this Simone woman? The public has a right to know. Why is she staying out of sight? And why the hell is she with you? I don't want you to take this the wrong way, Viktor, but you're not exactly Cecil B. DeMille  more runofthemill.
Maybe the reason she's with me is a little thing called integrity, Sayer. Look it up.
She sounds like a prisoner, Taransky. Are you holding her hostage? Are you some kind of Svengali?
Who's the hostage, Sayer, her or you? You look kind of "captive" yourself. While you're spending every waking hour obsessing over Simone, guess what, I guarantee she doesn't even know you exist. Get off my property or I'll call the cops.
The cops? The cops read my column to know who to bust. We're the only watchdog the public has. None of this is going away. We'll be here tomorrow and the day after that. Until you slip up. And you will. You are looking at your shadow. Because all these elaborate precautions with Simone  every instinct in my body tells me, it's not natural.
I'm just trying to help you, Sayer. I don't want you to be disappointed. It gets cold out here at night.
Nice try. If we can't get to her through you, maybe your family will be more cooperative. I can guarantee you, Taransky, one way or another, Miss Simone and I are going to get acquainted.
I'd like to see that, Sayer. Invite me.
Nice boat, Taransky.
It's a yacht.
I know what you're up to.
I don't have time for this, Sayer.
I think you do. I know it's a fake.
It's bogus. You used an old library shot for the background.
The background is.
She was never in New Mexico. She never left the studio.
I've done my homework. I've studied her.
 I bet you have.
 I've looked at every piece of publicity she's ever done, the video in the supermarket, there's no evidence she's ever left the studio. Oh, and for some reason this woman leaves no paper trail. But I have "obtained" a copy of your bank accounts. I know you have power of attorney but so far you haven't transferred one single solitary cent to her.
I'm keeping it in trust.
I know that's what you'd like us to believe. But I got to tell you  embezzlement is a serious matter. Not to mention abduction.
Abduction?
I don't buy the whole recluse scam. How are you doing it? What is it  drugs? Blackmail? Mindcontrol? All three? What do you do  keep her locked in a box somewhere?
What is it exactly you want, Sayer?
I want to see her. Unless you show me Simone live and in person I show these pictures to the authorities.
Alright, Sayer, you've got a deal.
Er,... good.
What now, Sayer?
Looks familiar, doesn't she? No one comes from nowhere, Taransky. You turn over enough rocks...
I traced her to a nursing home. A young woman fitting Simone's description dropped her off five years ago.
She looks a lot like you.
She hasn't uttered a word that whole time  until she saw the big show.
That doesn't prove a thing  wait until I get a court order for a blood test.
That won't be necessary. Sooner or later I knew you'd crack this thing, Max. You got me.
I do? Sure I do. Can we speak off the record? I'm a fair man. I'm willing to sit down with her and tell her side of the story.
I wouldn't want you to compromise your ethics.
No. Thanks. Absolutely.
You love her, don't you, Max?
Don't you?
This should take care of Mother.
 Plead guilty and throw yourself on the mercy of the court. It's the best deal you're going to get.
I could get the death penalty.
You certainly will if you go to trial  a jury in this kind of ugly mood. You've killed an icon, for God's sake.
I didn't kill anyone, Bernard, there was no one to kill!
An insanity defence.
 No! I can't go along with this horseshit! Just tell them they can fry me!
What?!
It was premeditated  I knew exactly what I was doing! I strangled her! I bludgeoned her! I set her on fire! I did it! I killed her!
Hi, Dad.
Hello, sweetheart.
I'm sorry Mom canned you.
It's really... not anything, Lainey. It's just 
Don't feel too bad. Mom runs the place and they still walk all over her. You're better off out of it.
You look very grown up. What are you doing? You meeting your mom for dinner?
I'm going to finish the picture, sweetheart. It's important.
I know you'll do it, Dad. You're Viktor Taransky.
Hi, Dad.
Hello, Lainey.
Your mother couldn't make it?
She's at the premiere of "A Cold Day In Hell". But I think she send someone from Acquisitions.
She still with Kent?
This week anyhow.
Not quite how I imagined it 
 You finished the film on your own terms, that's what matters. Did you really do all the post yourself?
There was no other way.
I missed you. I wondered if you were ever coming back.
Me too.
Well, I can't wait to meet Simone... what's her last name?
You know, I... don't know.
Is she here tonight?
She can't watch herself.
She's a miracle, Dad. Where did you find her?
I saw her picture on the, er... internet. You really didn't notice anything  unusual?
Only her brilliance. To be honest, with what you had to work with, I was expecting a train wreck. You really pulled it off.
Can't you stop that?
Why?
Those things can be dangerous. Staring at a screen all day  you miss what's going on outside in the real world. You can lose yourself. You should get out more. How are you going to meet boys?
I know plenty of boys.
Really? Who? Where do you meet them? In a chat room? How do you know he's not some middleaged freak?
Dad, I can spot a middleaged freak a mile away.
Okay. But you have to find a way to escape that thing.
I do.
How?
I read.
You do? Still? I can't tell you how happy I am to hear that.
You were the one who insisted on it. Reading me Dostoyevsky and Joyce when I was four.
You understood them. That's what was amazing. It's a nice day. Let's eat outside.
Okay, Dad.
If anyone asks about Simone 
 I know, I don't know anything.
Exactly. Don't you wonder where I'm really hiding Simone?
I'm sure you'd tell me if you thought it was important.
One thing bothered me.
I know, Hal is as stiff as always.
No, not that. I was just wondering  in the bedroom scene in reel two why did Simone have no reflection when she walked in front of that mirror?
So that accounts for the lack of a shadow in reel six?
Precisely.
Goodnight, Daddy.
Night, Lainey.
Hey, Lainey. How's your love life?
I do okay. How about you?
You know me  married to my work.
I noticed.
Dad, you know I don't like to get between you and mom but she's feeling down right now. She broke up with Kent.
Really? Too bad.
She thinks you're with Simone.
Lainey, you know Simone and I don't have a real relationship.
I know but Mom doesn't. Maybe if it came from Simone, if Simone spoke to Mom  she could straighten things out. Dinner, maybe.
Dinner? Dinner's difficult. A phone call?
Too impersonal. They have to meet facetoface.
I'll see what I can do. You know, Lainey. I don't believe you've ever once asked to meet Simone. Don't you like her?
I love her but that doesn't mean I need to meet her.
I love you, Lainey.
I love you too, daddy.
Why didn't she thank you?
She did... didn't she?
Happy birthday, Lainey. Do you like it?
It's fantastic  it's too much.
It's the car she drove in "Eternity Forever".
I know. Thank her for me.
It's from both of us. Of course you'll have to drive it around the lot until you get your permit 
 I can't accept it. I don't want a car, Dad.
Why not? I can get you something else. What do you want?
The old Viktor Taransky. I liked you better before  before all this. You were a loser, Dad, but at least you had integrity. I can't stand to see you like this  clinging to Simone's coattails  it used to be about the work, and now it's all about her. And then she's not even grateful enough to thank you.
No, that was me.
There you go again, blaming yourself. Can't you see what she's done to you  she's taking advantage, mocking you. You deserve better than Simone. I've got to go, Dad.
Lainey...
About you and mom?
Me and Simone. What I did.
Your mistake wasn't making something fake, daddy. We're fine with fake  as long as you don't lie about it.
Harry! Harry! Can we have a minute? What brings you here tonight?
I just came out to support my good friend, Simone.
There's a rumor that you're more than just "good friends"?
We've been seeing each other, sure, but we'd rather keep our relationship private.
Do I hear the sound of... wedding bells?
I can't believe you people! No wonder she never comes to these things!
 Mr. Taransky, Mr. Taransky... thank God. I've been trying to see you, calling  Your assistant wouldn't put me through. I told her it was a matter of life and death. I was afraid I wouldn't get to you in time 
 Please, get away from me.
I did it, Mr. Taransky. I licked skin. I licked hair. I licked every part of her.
You want me to call Security?
I have her, Mr. Taransky. The answer to your prayers. The answer to this.
I was misquoted.
I have your new leading lady... ... right here in my pants.
It's me, Mr. Taransky. Don't you recognize me?  The Future of Film conference in San Jose. Hank... Hank Aleno. I was keynote speaker. You must remember my speech... "Who Needs Humans?"
That's right. You were booed off the stage. That's got to be  ?
 Eight years ago. In that whole time, I never left my computer.
Good for you, Hank.
Good and bad. They think that's what caused this. Me eye tumor. Microwaves from the screen. It's the size of a grapefruit. Heavy too.
I'm sorry.
Don't be. It was worth it.
You have to see her.
I've seen them all before.
Not like this 
Come on, Hank. A synthespian, virtual actor  ?
 We call them "vactors".
I need flesh and 
 Flesh is weak.
 a living, breathing actor  I can't work with a fake.
You already do. But my actor won't get old, fat, lazy or drunk  won't throw tantrums, demand a body double, script changes or a bigger trailer. The Disney Corporation has been using artificial actors for years.
That's the point, Hank. No matter how good they are, they're still Mickey Mouse. Everyone's tried. Everyone's failed. It can't be done.
It can  with my new computer code, you and me, we can do it together.
I don't know anything about computers.
That's why you're so perfect. You have something I don't have.
What's that?
An eye  for performance. You know the truth when you see it. I know. I've seen your movies. I love your movies.
You do?
"Straw God" changed my life.
You saw that?
I've seen every frame of your work. You're the only filmmaker in Hollywood with the artistic integrity to realize my vision. You and me, art and science... we are the perfect marriage.
Listen, Hank, it's been a rough day. I'll call you about his next week.
I won't be here next week. The tumor's inoperable. I'll be dead.
I'm already dead.
Nicola Anders is the only actress who can play that role.
It's a remake, Hal. Anders is not bigger than this picture.
Viktor, I'm so happy for us!
Hello, Hal.
The film. The chemistry. No reflections on Nicola but Simone and I  we were just so right together.
You never were together, Hal.
And still the connection was undeniable. I haven't read "Eternity Forever" but I know it's brilliant. And I know I would be perfect for Clive.
Clyde.
Yes, perfect. As a matter of fact, I ran into Simone on the lot the other day.
Really? She didn't mention it.
I'm sure she's meeting with a lot of people right now. She is just as you described her, Viktor... indescribable. I strongly sensed she thought I was right for it.
You'll never guess who I'm with... you ran into him on the lot.
It was more in passing.
You're so far off! Hal... Hal Sinclair... your co star. Remember now?... No, I don't think he's put on weight. Anyway, you think he's right for "Eternity Forever"?... not the right type?... a different direction... I'll try to talk her into it.
How will you do our love scenes?
Body double.
For her?
For you. I want you to know, Simone appreciates you all working for scale. But why am I thanking you? Simone can thank you herself. She insisted on speaking with you before filming begins. She's on the line now.
Hal, what are you doing?
Viktor, Clyde simply has to get close to Simone in this scene! He has to touch her. He has to!
Absolutely not!
But she's right there! I must feel her!
You can't.
Why not?
There's... a wall between you 
 an emotional wall, I know. That's why 
 No. No. A real wall. You ran right through it.
How did the wall get there?
I can't explain it to you now  you'll see when it's all put together. Anyway, we got it a couple of takes ago. Let's move on.
Is she here?
I'm fine, Hal. How are you?
Somebody said she was here.
You know I sometimes forget she has bodily functions.
I know what you mean.
I have to talk to her about my experimental film. It's very... experimental.
No. In fact, between us, she doesn't really exist.
Simone!
Well, no one could accuse you of being overexposed, Simone. Why have you stayed so completely out of the limelight?
I just think actors talk too much. Does the world really want to hear your life story just because you've got a movie opening Friday?
Of course, the only problem with shying away from publicity these days is that it tends to attract more.
Don't I know it. That's the only reason I'm here now  to put the attention back where it belongs, on Mr. Taransky's film.
You don't secretly want the attention?
I'm not even sure I deserve it. After tonight I'll have almost as much screen time on your show as I do in my movies. How is that healthy for a performer?
Because, you have to understand, Frank, these interviews  none of this is real. Who I am on screen and who I really am are two totally different people.
Who are you really?
That's a good question. As Nietzsche said, "Whenever a man strives long and hard to appear someone else..."
No, I'm okay.
Let's talk about the work that you care so much about.
Sure. Where would you like to start?
How about the nudity?
Nudity has just never been an issue for me, Frank. For me, clothes are just an option.
What exactly was it that attracted you to your first two projects?
I suppose the thing I like most about the movies I'm in is that they're not about special effects.
 Simone, the question on everyone's mind is simply... "why?"
Frank, you know as well as I do, living in a fish bowl, the insatiable appetite of the media...
With everything that was going on in my life, I just needed to drop out of sight for a while  I needed time. Viktor bought me that time. I owe him so much.
We all do. But now I understand you're eager to get back to work  and not the kind of work that we're all expecting.
That's true. I can reveal that I am considering a career in politics.
And what may I ask brought this on?
Thank God for you, Faith. I know this is above and beyond the call of duty for a standin. You don't know what a service you're performing for Simone  shielding her from those animals.
No, thank God for you, Mr. Taransky. How many men would go to so much trouble to protect a woman?
You understand you'll have to come back to my place to keep them off the, er... ... scent.
Of course.
You look so, so...
... so much like her?
Yes, of course, but very beautiful in your own right.
I do find myself physically attracted to you, Mr. Taransky.
What?... What did you say?
Do what you do to Simone.
What I do to Simone?
Yes, call me Simone.
Simone?
Yes, yes, again, again. Do what you do to Simone. I want to know what it's like to be her just for one night.
You're with me to be close to her?
Is that a problem?
"Why are we here? Is that what you're asking, Jack?... Why are we here? No why. Just here".
Please put your clothes on
You had no choice, Elaine. He's a liability.
He also happens to be the most talented man I've ever known.
I can't believe she's doing this  taking advantage of him this way. It's cruel.
Why?
Obviously, this can't last. She's going to dump him. Viktor won't be able to take that. He's too sensitive. It'll destroy him.
Elaine, do you realize you can't stop talking about Viktor?
I have to talk to her.
Mom, do you miss Dad?
Sometimes. But, just when I think your father's changing for the better, I realize he's as self absorbed as ever. He took the credit for Simone tonight.
Thank Simone for the tickets.
It was a great show, Dad...
Let's go, Lainey. There's nothing here.
Just a minute.
God, it's so like your father. Why can't people take responsibility for their actions anymore? I can almost forgive him for killing Simone  but denying her existence. I can never forgive that.
Because obviously she existed, right?
I know it as surely as you're sitting here, sweetheart. She was the most vital woman I ever met.
So you did meet her?
Of course. What are you suggesting?
I mean really meet her  in the flesh.
I know it's embarrassing to admit it, mom, but when I think about it  honestly, I haven't. I mean, it feels like I have. I know more about her than members of my own family. She's even in my dreams. But I realized, going back through my diary, they were all TV appearances, near misses at parties, secondhand rumor, gossip on the internet. I've never actually seen Simone up close, touched her, been in her physical presence. Have you?
Well, I 
 We don't believe daddy because we don't want to believe we were taken in too.
Lainey, there's no evidence that Simone isn't real.
Listen to what you're saying, mom. Is there any evidence she is?
Hello?
Hello, is this Elaine?
Yes  oh my, God. Is that you, Simone?! I've been wanting to talk to you.
Well, here I am. You look pretty today. Red suits you.
Where are you?
Right beside you. I borrowed Viktor's car.
Of course she is. No other name is going to sign on now and risk offending her.
We don't need a name. We'll cast an unknown.
No! You will not give in to that blackmailing bitch!
Excuse us.
God, Viktor. Why do you always have to make things so difficult for yourself?
Difficult. I'm difficult.
 Do you know what these are, Elaine?
Hmm... Mike and Ike's.
Not just any Mike & Ike's  cherry Mike & Ike's. Do you know why I, Viktor Taransky, twotime Academy Award nominated director 
 Viktor, that was Short Subject.
 overseeing the most cherished movie project of my career, am walking around with a pocketful of cherry Mike & Ike's?
 I have a feeling you're going to tell me.
 I'll tell you why. It is because Miss Nicola Anders, supermodel with a SAG card God's gift to cinema, has it written into her contract that all cherry Mike & Ike's be removed from her candy dish along with strict instructions that any room she walks into should have seven packs of cigarettes waiting for her three of them opened, that there be a personal jacuzzi within eighty paces of her dressing room, and that any time she travels, her nanny must fly with her first class.
 What's wrong with that?
Elaine, she doesn't have any children! Don't you see? We're being held hostage by 12 men and 5 women who someone somewhere has decreed are the Alist.
The public decides who's on that list.
Please.
It's the truth. Those 17 superstars are our insurance policy. We can't open  can't make a profit without them.
We can hardly make a profit with them. Upfront salary, backend deal, perks, per diem, percentages  They're mocking us, Elaine. We're at their mercy. We always had movie stars but they used to be our stars. We used to decide who would play what role. We told them what to wear, what to say, who to date. When they were under contract, we could change their names if we wanted to  more than once!
You realize you're nostalgic for an era you weren't even born in?
Well, I do remember why I started out in this business  you seem to have forgotten  working in New York with Cassevetes  we were trying to do something important, shine a light in that darkened cinema 
 It's called a projector.
 Illuminate hearts and minds with a ray of truth.
Listen, Viktor, I have good memories of those days too  but this isn't about that or you or me or some highminded ideal. This is business.
Spare me.
 Christ, Viktor, look around. What do you think pays for all this? This is about investment and return. Those days in New York... that's... it's over.
You're not renewing my contract.
How can I? Your last three pictures tanked. The board is giving me hell. No bankable star will work with you after this. If you just compromised... a little.
I'm not taking away your daughter, just your deal. You and I both know, after the divorce I kept you on for old time's sake, so you could still hold your head up in front of Lainey. I called what's his name at Warner's. He said he'd take a meeting  in July. I've fought for you Viktor... You want to talk severance?
You can have everything  office, car, assistants  all I want is the picture.
The picture's dead.
So there's no problem  I can have the rights, the negative too?
They're yours. But how are you going to finish it? Without a star there's no movie.
I don't need a star. All I need is an actor  I'll reshoot the part, cut out Nicola and replace her with a real actor. A real leading lady.
Even if you find her, you know the problem with unknowns, Viktor. If they're good, they get known. And then you're back to sorting their candy... and worse. I'm sorry, Viktor.
Where is she?
Good to see you too, Elaine.
Why isn't she with you?
Why? Because she would never show up at something like this. She's intensely private.
Viktor... I want to thank you for convincing Simone to sign with the studio.
Don't thank me. It was entirely Simone's decision. Do you have Simone's check?
I don't have it on me. Anyway, it means a lot. Have you read the reviews? They're love letters. Listen to this one. "Simone has the voice of a young Jane Fonda, the body of Sophia Loren, the grace of, well, Grace Kelley, and the face of Audrey Hepburn combined with an angel".
Almost right.
I can't wait to meet her.
I don't know if that's going to happen.
Why not?
As I say, she's... something of a recluse. That's how she's able to stay so pure  by isolating herself in her art.
Don't be ridiculous. I arranged a press conference.
Out of the question. A circus like that?
Viktor, it's my studio.
She's my actor. There are other studios, Elaine. There's only one Simone. Leave the press conference to me.
Sorry I didn't get her back in time.
No problem. Do you want to come in?
Why not?
Viktor, we simply have to talk about "Eternity..."
"Forever".
Whatever. I still haven't received Simone's script notes.
There aren't any. If the filmmakers are happy, Simone's happy. She considers herself an... "instrument".
Really? Oh, so she's really going to do all this nudity?
If it's on the page...
Well, something has to be done about this budget. It's completely unrealistic. You allowed nothing for limousine service.
She'll drive herself.
Hair and makeup?
She'll do her own. Theater training.
She was in the theater? When? Where?
I'll send you her resume.
Al least a contingency for wardrobe. Any woman can go up a dress size.
 I guarantee she won't gain an once. She's very disciplined.
Well, we have to do something about this  "stuntwoman".
What about it?
There isn't one.
No need. She does all her own stunts.
Even the fall from the plane?
Even the fall from the plane.
Well, shoot it on the last day.
As I've tried to explain to you, Elaine. Simone isn't like any other actress you've ever known. She's about the work and only the work  lives for the work. She wants all the money up there... ... on the screen where it belongs. She'd work for scale except I know you only respect people you pay a fortune.
Which accounts for your percentage. When do I get to meet this dream?
Not today. She's learning her lines. You can also take cue cards and teleprompter out of the budget.
I'll walk you out.
Listen, Viktor... I want to talk to you now, not as Elaine, studio head, but Elaine, exwife. Second exwife. You got lucky this last time but you need to be careful. We both know you wouldn't be making this overblown art film of you hadn't convinced Simone to be in it.
Elaine, talking to you now, not as Viktor, director, but Viktor, ex husband... what the hell happened to you?
Experience, Viktor. I've seen this a hundred times  young stars destroying the very people who discovered them. I'm worried about you, that's all. This woman  she controls your destiny.
Simone does not control my destiny.
Viktor, I have a feeling. One of my feelings. There's something about her I don't trust.
Stunning, Viktor. The Hollywood Foreign Press is going to eat this up.
Thank you. What did you think, Lainey?
I got them to remove the reflection. The mirror's metaphor  to show how her character's inwardly dead.
That's genius, Viktor. Was that Simone's idea?
Who else? It's always Simone's idea.
Maybe you're right. Twelve years after your daughter's born you decide to become a father.
Better late than never.
I should fire you more often. The film's looking wonderful.
You really think so?
Yes. To be honest I never quite saw this film before  maybe it's the way Simone is playing it  but what it's saying about the illusion of permanence in everyday life, how that's the only way we can love  I think it's really going to mean something.
Thank you. I'll tell Simone you liked it.
I'd love to tell her myself. When are you going to let me meet her?
Soon. Soon.
Everyone I know has met her, Viktor.
Everyone you know is lying.
That's true.
 You can't go in there!
 We have to talk to her, Viktor!
 It's starting to look like she doesn't support the film or you, Viktor. If you can't handle her, I will.
Not now. She's emotional. Her mother dies today. Scene fortytwo of "Good For Nothing". It's not a good time.
So, the secret's finally out, Viktor.
 I can explain.
 I don't think that's necessary. I think it's perfectly clear. I should have guessed  it all makes sense now... it's why she never goes anywhere, never seen in public...
The premiere was the first time I've convinced her to venture out and it just confirmed her worst nightmares.
Viktor, you should have said something.
She doesn't want pity.
You're so good to protect her like this.
I'll tell you what. I know how much this means to you. I'll try to get her to plug the film. I'm not promising anything but maybe she'll do a talk show  taped.
Oh, make it live  please, Viktor.
I'll try. Maybe live but remote. She'll never go to them.
She was there. She didn't by any chance happen to mention me?
She said you were very beautiful.
Really?
Elaine, what are you doing tonight? Would you like to go somewhere  dinner?
I'd love to. But aren't you supposed to meet up with Simone?
Oh, yes. Of course. Don't I always?
 Viktor, are you with her? Is she there?
No.
Are you and Simone... ... getting married?
No, of course not! Why? Would you care if we were?
Well, yes. From a studio point of view, it would be better if Simone stayed single. Anyhow, I thought she came across great tonight. Intelligent, well informed, a natural. And touching. She was spectacular.
Thank you.
Viktor, do you realize you always do that?
Do what?
Whenever I compliment Simone, you take the credit.
I do?
Yes, you do... Anyway, tonight was a good start.
Excuse me? Start?
It's a crowded summer. We need every photoopp, soundbyte and column inch we can get. Good night, Viktor.
My two favorite girls.
Lainey and I just wanted to congratulate...
... Simone.
She's lying down. She's exhausted.
I can imagine.
Elaine, it's Wednesday.
Is it Wednesday? It's Wednesday. How embarrassing. I don't know what I was thinking. With all the excitement lately... Am I interrupting something? Are you expecting company?
As a matteroffact I am.
When is she coming over?
About now. Would you like a drink?
I suppose I could stay, just until she arrives.
Is Simone back to earth yet?
Not quite.
I'm sure you'll keep her focussed. She's lucky to have you, Viktor. Is she really having your baby?
Impossible.
I just read somewhere 
I know. I know. They'll say anything.
 And she was positively glowing at the awards. I should be going, she'll be here soon 
 She already is. Simone's not coming over, Elaine. Not tonight, not ever. I want you back, Elaine.
I want you back too, Viktor.
This is crazy. Who am I fooling? I can't compete with Simone. What woman can?
I would rather have you than Simone. Believe me.
That's sweet, Viktor, but I couldn't let you do that  make that kind of sacrifice. It's strange. I've stabbed people in the back, clawed and slept my way to where I am  it goes with the territory  but, for some reason, I can't betray Simone. There's... I don't know any other way to say it  there's a goodness to her.
No, there isn't. There's nothing to her.
Oh, Viktor. You say that now  because we're here, alone, like this. But in the morning, you'd go back to her. What man wouldn't?
No, I will end my relationship with her  totally.
But you don't understand. She'll always be there  at some party, on some magazine cover, some song on the radio, up on some screen.
No. She'll never work again  retire, never make a movie or a record, or appear ever again.
Of course she will. Her public will demand it.
Not if I don't let her.
You?
I'm going to tell you a secret now, Elaine. Simone is not a real person. I invented her.
Every actor is an invention, Viktor. Don't embarrass yourself. No one's denying that you discovered Simone. But it's like finding a diamond in the desert. Anyone can trip over it, but it's not the finder who sparkles.
 No, no, I didn't trip over her. You don't understand 
 You just got lucky that she's loyal enough to stay with you. Maybe she's staying out of pity, who knows? She certainly doesn't need you. Some people even say you're holding her back.
Who says that  ?  Never mind. You have to listen to me, Elaine. Simone is thin air, pixels, molded by me from a mathematical equation. I inherited it from a madman  I can show you 
How much wine have you had?
 She's a figment of my own imagination. I, Viktor Taransky, have perpetrated the greatest hoax, the greatest sleightofhand, sleightofmouth, sleightof sleight in entertainment history! And still no one appreciates me, recognizes what I've done  even you.
You're drunker than I thought. Are you doing that again?
No! Whatever talent Simone has comes from me  me! Me! I swear, as God is my judge. You don't know what I've been through. Tens of thousands of mindnumbing hours in front of that screen, nights without end, and look what it's cost me. Why do you think I've been wearing these? I may have done irreparable harm to my eyesight, and why? To extract and refine the infinite nuances of a human being  a human soul. Don't you see? I made Simone!
Can I see you later  go away for the weekend?
How can you bring that up at a time like this?
Thank you! I don't know how you did it but thank you.
Don't thank us too fast, Viktor. You know what we have to do?
Why stop at one character when you can have a whole cast?
Exactly. Now that you have the studio behind you, we can really do things.
I was thinking  what about you and... "Simone" moving back in with me and Lainey?
That sounds wonderful. How do you feel about all this, Lainey?
Don't look so glum, Viktor. It's not a death sentence.
No... it's life.
I'd love to stop somewhere but I'm late. I'm on my way to see Viktor now.
No, I understand. That's what I want to talk about. I don't know if you know this, Simone, but Viktor and I were married once.
I can't imagine how you ever let a man like that go. I owe Viktor everything.
I think he owes more to you. But that's not important now. I know what's going on between you two.
I want to reassure you, Elaine, there's absolutely nothing going on between Viktor and I.
You don't have to protect my feelings, Simone. I don't blame Viktor for falling in love with the most desirable woman in the world.
I'm not  He's not.
My God, are you alright, Simone?
Damn  Yes  I   I'm just a little tired. Listen, Elaine, Viktor and I  it's strictly a working relationship. We could never be anything else. We're just so... different.
Exactly. You're a household name now. You're moving in entirely different worlds. That's why I hope you're not toying with Viktor.
It sounds like you still have feelings for him.
We have a daughter together. I just don't want to see Viktor get hurt.
I don't know how many times I have to say this, Elaine, but Viktor and I are not in love. I only make love to the camera.
Simone, I recognize the shirt you're wearing. I gave it to Viktor on his birthday.
Christ  Elaine, I know how it looks but... ... it would mean a lot to Viktor if you'd go with him to the Oscars. If you won't do it for him, please do it for me.
Okay  for you.
Thanks. This is my exit so, I 
I'm glad we talked.
Goodbye.
 Forgive me, Mr. Taransky. I'm just trying to understand. All these films, TV appearances, magazine covers, internet interviews, publicity photos, snapshots from her childhood  all fake. This is fake, this is fake  fake, fake, fake, all fake.
That's right. You understand perfectly. I will confess to fraud, not murder.
A fan club with a worldwide membership in the millions  also bogus?
Oh, no. The fan club is real. But they were worshipping computer code  ones and zeros.
So, of course, you couldn't kill Simone because there never was a Simone.
Of course.
And this Mr. Hank Aleno who you talk so much about, a renowned failure, who also happens to be so conveniently dead  perhaps the "man" you claim helped invent Simone is an invention himself?
But not everyone's imaginary, are they, Mr. Taransky? I refer, of course, to Edith.
Who?
Can you tell us why you were disposing of the body of a woman who didn't exist?
It wasn't her body. It was her body of work.
Why don't you just come clean, Viktor? Tell the truth. You'll feel better afterwards.
I am telling the truth.
We all know what happened. In a fit of jealous rage you killed Simone and dumped her body off a boat she bought for you.
No!! I can prove it to you. I'll take you to her.
Stella, this is one of my oldest surviving friends. Treat him right.
That was my plan.
Oh, yeah, you two are going to get along fine. You got a lot in common.
It's an advance. We want him to know he's going to be happy here.
I wouldn't worry about that.
I thought you two would get along.
From what I've seen, Paden doesn't care much about money.
He says he doesn't care about anything, but he does. There's just no telling what it's going to be.
You work here?
I run the place. What can I get you?
Nifty.
The world is what you make of it, friend. If it doesn't fit, you make alterations.
I'll drink to that. Will you join me, Miss 
Stella.
Paden.
Stella... Are you the midnight star herself?
I am. I'm always there, but I only shine at night.
My compliments to you, Miss Stella. This is what I call a saloon.
Thanks. That's what I call it too.
And I know what I'm talking about.
You like a good saloon?
It's the only place I'm happy.
Me too. What's wrong with us?
You wouldn't be needing any help around here, would you? Maybe with the gambling?
You see that fellow over there in the gray coat?
That's Kelly, my socalled partner. He runs that side.
Socalled?
Yeah, aside from being a loudmouthed, lying cheat, he's just the man I would have picked.
Why'd you go into business with him?
I don't own this place. The man who does stuck me with Kelly.
Who's the owner?
Here he comes right now.
Is this a fair mix?
I'm saving lives here. The straight stuff would raise a blood blister on boot leather.
I meant, seemed like a lot of whiskey.
What's this?
That's the good stuff.
Oh, yeah? How good?
You really are a gambler.
Give me some of the good stuff.
Where's the dog now?
He left me.
What is it that I can't figure?
What do you mean?
Cobb's got something on you, and it must be pretty good.
What makes you say that?
If he didn't you'd never sit still while this was happening.
You sure? Maybe that's the kind of friend I am.
Nah! What's he got? This is a nice saloon, but there are other nice saloons. It's not the money. Not for you. Why can't I get ahold of it? Cobb says there's no telling what you're going to care about.
Is that what he said? Well, he figured it okay this time.
Some people think because they're stronger  or meaner  they can push you around. I've seen a lot of that. But it's only true if you let it be. The world is what you make of it.
I like your attitude. But it can be risky.
I'm ready for that.
How about you?
I don't want you to get hurt.
He can't hurt me if he's dead.
I've got a place I can hide her.
You better get in there with her until this thing is over.
Hello, Cobb.
Hello, Paden. How ya doing?
I see you're prospering without me.
It's been a while.
Where's the dog?
Appreciate the loan. I'm good for it.
Let's talk about that. I'm looking for some men.
I've given that up.
So have I. I've got a legitimate job now. I can use a guy like you.
You've got a legitimate job.
Yes, sir. You wouldn't believe it.
You're right.
This is mighty sweet, Paden. I think I finally found my place in the world.
Well I'm real happy for you, Cobb. But I think I'll keep looking for mine.
You got a place to stay?
I just got to town.
Stella, we still got an extra room out back, don't we?
What brings you into my saloon?
Luck, I guess.
Good old Paden. I was hoping you'd changed your mind about the job.
You didn't tell me you owned a saloon.
Nothing like that will happen between us.
Maybe we ought to ask Stella.
I took out thirteen dollars.
This is a lot of money.
I told you this was a sweet setup.
It is that.
Maybe you could run it without Stella.
Easy, boy. Just an idea.
Well, thanks, but forget it.
You know, Paden, what makes all this work is me doing my job. The fellows you came to town with are causing some trouble. It's going to take a little straightening out. I have my responsibilities. I want you to understand. It has nothing to do with us.
What is it you want from me?
Nothing. Do nothing. Don't get between us.
I'm a great believer in doing nothing.
So we understand each other?
Don't worry about me. If you're taking on Emmett, the last place I want to be is between you.
I'm going to have to look into this.
Yeah, maybe I will too.
I thought we talked about that.
We didn't talk about this. They took the little boy, Cobb.
You gotta calm down, Paden. Everything will be put straight in a few days.
I saw how you're putting Mal Johnson straight.
I never could count on you to be reasonable. Don't force me to make an adjustment around here.
Cobb, you've got nothing I need.
I'm not thinking about your future, Paden. I'm worried about Stella.
What's she got to do with it?
Not a thing. She's just a mutual friend. But if you wind up on the wrong side of this, she's going to get hurt.
What a waste. This could have been such a sweet deal for us.
Yeah. Bad luck. Goodbye, Cobb.
Goodbye, Paden.
He must be pretty good.
He's good, all right. Too good for my men. That's why you've got to take care of it.
What about his brother?
We'll handle that. He's careless.
Things are getting messy around here. I hear Ezra Johnson got himself killed.
I heard that too.
Did you hear his son is still around?
This is it, gents. My ma told me to head south past that rock.
Good luck, Mal.
Why are they doing this, Mal?
Because they enjoy it.
I heard from Stella you were trying to find Jake. What happened to Emmett?
You don't know?
I got there just short of too late.
Lucky.
Yeah, it's working out real good.
Where's Emmett now?
Hello, Rae.
What are you doing here? I thought you were done with our family.
Daddy's dead.
He was murdered.
Who did it?
I'm not sure, but I got an idea. And when I am sure, they're going to pay.
Oh that's just fine. Where were you when Ma and Daddy needed you? It's too late, Mal. Now you finally show up and all you can think of is to get yourself killed.
What are you doing here, Rae? This ain't for you.
It's none of your business.
Rae, all we got is each other.
I don't have any family any more.
Get out. We have nothing to talk about.
Rae, I need help.
Why come to me?
Because you're my sister. There's nobody else. The men who killed Daddy are after Jake. I gotta talk to him.
What's stopping you?
They're watching the Hollis place. I can't get through.
What makes you think I could?
Why would they stop you?
Because I'm your sister.
Why him?
Shut up. You need help, don't you?
Now let's talk about you chaps.
We'd rather stay.
We'll see about that. I'm Sheriff John Langston. As you may have guessed, I am not from these parts.
You're kidding.
But the good citizens of Turley have taken me in their embrace, and for one simple reason. I maintain the peace. So when strangers come to town, I always ask them their business. Have you come for the hanging?
The jury saw it differently.
So this is the guy you're going to hang?
Tomorrow morning. Ten o'clock.
I was afraid of that.
What's all this then?
This nigger's breaking up my place, Sheriff Langston.
I don't like that word much, Carter.
We don't serve them here and you know it. I asked him to leave and he went crazy on us. He owes me money for this damage.
Is that a fact?
Who's going to pay for all this, Sheriff?
Don't press your luck, Carter.
There are three strangers in this room, traveller, and these gents you are accusing aren't them. Are these your friends?
I wanted a drink and a bed. I guess I came to the wrong place.
Came to the wrong town. I don't tolerate this kind of thing. It's hard on the peace, and it's hard on the furniture. Now, knowing a bit about Carter here, I'm going to let you go without paying for the damages. But go you will, and I mean now.
Is there a place in town that takes... my kind?
You misunderstand. I want you out of town. In fact, I want you all the way out of my jurisdiction.
That ain't right.
I decide what's right in this jurisdiction. Now move.
Kelly, get over here. You didn't come all this way just to pay me back that money, did you? Kelly, meet my friend Paden.
Howdy.
Give the man a line of credit. He already owes the house thirteen bucks.
You wanted to see me?
We're going to make some adjustments. I wanted you to be here when I offered Paden your job. I think he could do it without getting greedy. Stella and I are tired of you skimming our profits.
What are you talking about?
I'm done talking. Get out.
You can't do this.
Really?
You mean you ain't coming with Emmett and me?
I can't say I'm convinced you're going anywhere.
Sure we are. We're leaving at dawn.
I've got no reason to run. It was a fair fight and there were plenty of witnesses.
Yeah, that's what happened with me too.
The other guy drew first.
Right!
Didn't he tell you about Blind Pete?
We didn't get that far.
Blind Pete taught me a great trick.
That's the longest I ever did it. 'Bout bust a gut.
What now?
We wait.
Where's your brother?
He'll be here.
This a friend of yours?
He is now.
Who is he?
Oh, a guy who got run out of town...
Get out of here, Jake.
All I did was kiss the girl.
That's what you said in Turley. You remember how that ended.
What's the matter, Paden? You afraid I couldn't get those two behind me?
I don't want you getting anyone in my place.
New record.
Let's get out of here.
J.T.'s done everything he can. I married a brave man. Augie, take that delightful gift your uncle gave you out of here while we're talking. McKendrick picked the new sheriff himself, so J.T. can't even get the law enforced.
Half the gunslingers that drift into town turn up on our police force.
Augie's going to grow up here. There's nothing wrong with the land, it's just some of the people.
The problem is, Emmett, you killed the wrong McKendrick.
Why, J.T., watch what you're saying around Augie. Emmett didn't kill anybody.
It was not  it was Murdo's. Those McKendricks don't know how to act like human beings.
His son is worse than he was. He's smoother, so you don't always hear him coming, but he'll do anything to keep his range free.
I'm worried what he's going to do when he finds out you boys are back.
He acted bravely out there, Hannah. Just bad luck his getting hit. Could have been any one of us.
I don't believe in luck. I know what Conrad was like. Don't tell me what you think I want to hear.
Never will again.
We got married just before this trip, so we could come out here and try the land. It's hard to find a man willing to take on a life like that.
Mr. and Mrs. Parker have agreed to join their parcel to mine. We'll work them together. Mine starts right over there. It's all I've ever wanted. Pretty land, isn't it?
And a pretty lady.
A lot of men have told me that. Maybe it's true. I guess some women are slow to believe it.
Believe it.
They're drawn to me by that. But it never lasts.
Why?
Because they don't like what I want.
What's that?
I want to build something, make things grow. That takes hard work  a lifetime of it. That's not why men come to a pretty woman.
Daddy?
I saw the light. I thought maybe Rae had come back to see me. But I never thought it'd be my boy. I never thought that.
Where is Rae?
She's gone, gone to town. She hated working on the farm... ...just like you.
What happened?
They run me off. They burned me out. They made it so I couldn't do. Just like Georgia. If you won't sell, they take it anyway.
Who?
The cattle! This valley runs down to a clear creek. That's why we picked this spot, and that's why they don't want us here.
You own this land.
I paid the government for it, all right. That don't mean much out here. Malachi, I'm living like a wildcat in a cave in those hills. Hiding out, afraid to walk my own land.
What about the law?
Whose law? The law here runs a man down  just like these cattle.
That's a lie.
Tomorrow we're going to town to straighten that out once and for all. The next day we'll be back here... farming. And these cattle better be gone.
Two of the horses ran off, but that pinto you're riding hung around.
You got no idea what they were after?
Offend anybody lately?
Not for five years.
Jefferson City?
No, Leavenworth.
I've never been in there. They just jumped you out of the blue?
I had to get up anyway.
Me, I'm riding along, minding my own business. Four cowboys come by and we decide to ride together for a while, friendly as can be. I always figure you might as well approach life like everybody's your friend or nobody is... don't make much difference. We get out in the middle of that frying pan and suddenly everybody's pointing their gun but me. I guess they admired my horse. She's a great one, a sweet little bay.
Looks like that's not all they admired.
Yup. The whole rig. I don't care much about the rest, but I surely will miss that bay. Least they didn't kill me. That was right considerate, I thought. They were laughing when they left me. Thought it was real funny. I walked for a little while but there was no use, so I gave it up. Figured it was just bad luck.
Looks like those boys are headed south, so they weren't the same ones that jumped me. Which way you going?
Where's the pinto going?
I gotta stop by Turley and meet a guy.
Where's Turley?
South of here, past Chimayo.
Maybe I'll go along as far as Chimayo. Get me some clothes. Maybe a bath.
Yeah, maybe a bath.
I see what you like, she's mighty pretty.
And bridlewise, too. She's the only thing I lost I really cared about. 'Cept for maybe my hat. It's a great one. Got a pretty silver band on it. My head spent three years training it. I surely do miss that hat.
I gotta be going.
Going to Turley, was it?
Gotta meet a guy and head out for Silverado.
What's Turley like?
It's a town...
They got a saloon there?
I expect.
Women?
I expect.
Doesn't look quite fair.
Which way do you mean?
Shame about the kid. Seems a lively sort.
He is that.
I hate to see any man swing. Bad luck.
Bad luck for me. Now I gotta bust him out of there.
You'll have to deal me out on that. I've had some experience with that sort of thing, and I don't want any more.
I understand.
It's not going to be easy.
It never is. But he's my brother. We're going to California together. But first we're going to stop in Silverado and see our sister. And I can't show up there with a story like this.
Then I guess this is where we part ways. Sorry.
No hard feelings.
C'mon, I'll buy you a drink.
You haven't got any money.
All right, you buy me a drink.
You know, hanging around with you is no picnic.
Anybody got any ideas?
Where you been?
Oh, I was just checking the, ah... ...you know, lookin' in.
I think I'll ride along with the lady here. Just take a look at this farmland before I come into Silverado. See what makes a trip this hard worth taking. I'll see you around.
I'll be around.
Hannah's a smart, pretty woman, but she's got a hard idea for living.
Yeah?
All I'm saying is, you won't trip over me if you look her up.
I'm going to California with my brother.
Cobb, I want you to meet Emmett. He's a friend of mine. This is Sheriff Cobb.
Pleased to meet you, Sheriff.
I'll see you around.
Last one to the Midnight Star buys.
You might make a farmer yet.
I've got a job.
I'm just meeting a guy here and moving on. So far I haven't been able to find him.
In my town, when you're looking for someone, you ask me.
All right. I'm looking for a young fella, full of juice. About my size, wears a fancy twogun rig.
I guess tomorrow at dawn he'll be proved right.
Ten A.M.
Right... I thought they always did it at dawn. So long, kid. I'm sorry.
Maybe I ought to throw you in jail too. Then you could be with all your friends.
I haven't done anything.
I want you out of town before the hanging.
I'll be long gone.
I've got my people sitting down there... ...swatting flies and raring to go.
I'm afraid it is a bad start, friend, 'cause my name isn't Baxter, and he ain't Hawley.
You're not Baxter?
My name is Emmett.
And you're not Baxter, either?
Hobart, what are you people doing here?
This is where Baxter and Hawley brung us.
Well, they're wrong. This territory is full of bad characters.
And they were two of them. Look 
More than enough.
Have you thought at all about your plans?
Some. I've been talking to the Parkers. One thing I know I'm not doing  I'm not going back.
The Parkers seem like nice folks.
They've been kind to me.
Paden sends his best.
I guess I put a good scare into him.
I'm surprised to see you out here tonight.
I just came out to say goodbye.
Goodbye?
Yeah, me and Jake will be heading out for California soon.
You came all the way out here to tell me you're going to California? All you had to do was go, and we'd never see each other again.
That's why I'm here.
You don't make it easy on a fellow.
Didn't Paden tell you that?
Maybe you thought you'd be back this way someday.
Yeah... that must have been it.
Are you all right?
This is a brutal land.
You must have known that before you came.
It's one thing to know it...
We told Sheriff Cobb about the attack. He said he'd... look into it. I can't believe he's the law out here. Now I see why you all wear guns.
How's Mr. Parker doing?
Just like you'd think. But he's not going to run. We're sticking to our plan. Now we both need help.
Weren't you going to come out to say goodbye?
I already did that.
This time you're really going? You know where I'll be.
That I do.
After the war my family worked a little piece of land near Savannah for a while. But the way it was down there then... well, they made it hard every way they could. Finally my daddy figured the promised land was out this direction. By that time I was so sick of farming, I didn't want to touch another hoe ever. I wouldn't come with 'em. My daddy took it pretty hard. Him, my ma, and my little sister headed out without me. They've got a little place south of Silverado. I guess they've done okay. Good enough anyway so that when my ma wrote me last time, she said they needed my help to work the place. That was almost nine months ago she wrote. Letter took a while to find me, but when it did, it was just the right time.
Where were you?
Chicago. Working in the slaughter houses.
Maybe we'll see you sometime.
Yeah... maybe. So long.
...Gotta go...
Sure.
Where are we?
Someplace safe. How you feeling?
I'd be worse if you hadn't come along.
I didn't just come along. I was looking for you. Jake said you were out there. I saw him in town, and he told me about that business the other night. Said you boys took a Henry off one of McKendrick's men. I wanted to see it.
That's it.
This was my father's. The men who killed him took it.
I'm sorry.
I gotta get to my brother. If they came after me, they'll want him too.
You'll never make it.
Have to.
I'll go. I'll bring Jake out here.
Be careful. You're in it now. And it's gonna get mean.
So far that's all I seen in this life.
I almost didn't.
Where's Jake?
McKendrick's men got him.
Is he alive?
Kate?
She was hurt... pretty bad. Emmett, they took the little boy with them.
Gotta go.
Right.
Emmett.
McKendrick.
I didn't know you were out.
Did it seem short to you?
That's all over as far as I'm concerned, Emmett. I'm satisfied.
Sounds good.
All right then. Let's go.
Forget it.
Wait a minute. Get down off of there, Augie.
Emmett! Am I glad to see you!
Howdy, Jake. What's going on here?
You got me. This is a crazy town, Emmett. I think we ought to get out of here.
All I did was kiss a girl.
That's why they got you in jail?
Yeah, I kissed a girl and this guy didn't like it and we had some words, so I decided to get out of there.
So I did, I got out of there, I don't want no trouble. You know me. So I walked out on the street and the fella tried to shoot me in the back.
...And you had to kill him?
No, no, no! I winged him, and he dropped his gun.
You're in here for winging a guy?
Well, no, not exactly. See then his friend opened up on me.
What friend is that?
The one with the shotgun.
Jake, I'm going to ask you once  was it selfdefense?
Honest to God, Emmett, he would've killed me.
I think we lost 'em.
There's nobody coming?
Forget the money. You've got to get these people out of here. This is no place to be sitting with women and kids.
Your next water ain't for three days.
Well, Kate, it was selfdefense sure enough, but I think you'd have to say I killed old Murdo. I think that's definitely the word.
It was my fault.
I wouldn't do that. You're going to need every gun when that posse gets here.
Posse? What the hell you talking about?
My partner and me robbed the bank in Turley and headed out with a posse on our tails. My partner there caught one a ways back, and I think he kicked off while I was looking for this damn canyon. You're Dawson, ain't you? I'm Tex LaRue. Used to ride with Ry Morris. You know him. Well, Andy Sims told me there was a hideout here, so I headed for it. Hope you don't mind.
You brought a posse to my best hideout and you want to know if I mind. Mister, I don't know any of those names and you're about to die.
Wait a minute! If you don't believe me, ask them... ...they saw me and my pal in Turley before we did the job.
I'd get down if I were you. They may be up there now.
No money, eh?
The money's in my saddlebags over there, but I ain't stepping out to get it.
If we charge them, they won't have a chance. But we gotta get to the horses.
What do you mean, the horses?
Is that him?
Yeah.
Don't do it!
You'll lose the signal!
They think these look like stages immediately proceeding an attack maneuver.
It's like War of the Worlds.
They think it might happen all at once.
Some guy had a sign that said it was the end of the world. Nothing really bad is going to happen, is it Uncle Merrill?
Don't worry.
The book says they're probably very good problem solvers.
What book!
They'll find a way in.
It's the strangest thing Father.
Don't call me Father.
What's that?
Don't call me Father. It's just Graham now.
Sorry.
You said something was strange. What's strange?
The footprints.
What about them?
There are none.
It's not broken.
What kind of machine can bend a stalk of corn over without cracking it?
Second thing this week I can't explain.
What was the first thing?
Some animals around the county exhibiting uncharacteristic behavior. Sometimes violent behavior. Theo Henry had two of his fingers bit off by his cow.
Sounds like a virus.
No Father, they're edgy. On alert. Like they act when they smell a predator around... Peeing on themselves and everything.
You can't describe him at all? Don't you think that's find of odd?
It does seem kind of odd doesn't it?
I don't know whether to look for a midget or a 
He definitely wasn't a midget.
Okay. So he was tall?
I would say so.
Let me ask you two something. Don't be embarrassed by the answer. It is possible... Just possible now, you might have been chasing each other around? You said you went in opposite directions.
Edgar, it sounds as strange to me saying it, as it is to you hearing it. But we couldn't see him. He stayed mostly in the shadows. All we could make out was movement. But I'll tell you something with absolute certainty. There was someone watching our house last night. He was looking in my children's windows and I want you to find him Edgar. I need you to take this seriously, just in case, it is something serious.
I don't think so.
Do you owe anybody money? You can tell me off the record if you need too.
No.
Is anything missing?
No.
But I'll tell you something, what I said in their, still goes. You and your family have been through a lot in the last two days... Not to mention what happened to you all seven months ago.
Six months.
And three weeks.
It's left its mark still. The last thing these children need to do, is worry about some crazy things happening in the world. Take them into town. Get their minds  your mind, on everyday things. It's good medicine.
It's good advice... Say hi to Marcia for me.
You take care of yourself... Graham.
There was an accident. Drunk driving. They weren't sure.
He wasn't drinking. Ray fell asleep at the wheel.
Is he okay?
Yes... That's the first thing Colleen asked too.
She's not in an ambulance Father.
Why not?
See Father, Ray's truck swerved off the road and ah... Hit Colleen and then a tree. She was pinned between the two.
Pinned? What does that mean?
The truck... the truck has severed most of her lower half.
What did you say?
Can I use Bo's old baby monitor as a walkietalkie?
Yes.
It needs batteries.
Edgar, come inside.
These are D's; I need double A's.
I have some upstairs.
It's still making the noises. It's broken.
It's old Morgan.
We might lose the signal.
We can't just sit in the car in our own driveway like this.
I'm getting out now.
Don't do it.
Morgan?
It gets clearer, the higher you hold it.
So the aliens can't read our minds.
Oh.
They tell you everything in this book.
It says they're probably very small  like my height  because, as their brains developed, there was no use for physical development. It says they're probably vegetarians, because they would have realized the benefits of such a diet.
Who wrote this book?
Scientists who have been persecuted for their beliefs.
That means they're unemployed.
Dr. Bimboo, one of the authors of the book 
Bimboo?
Dad.
I just asked his name.
Tell me something Morgan. In that book of your, did they happen to detail what would happen if they were hostile?
Yes. They would invade us using only ground tactics. Hand to hand combat. They wouldn't use their technology or fight an airborne battle, because they would know we would eventually use nuclear weapons and the planet would be useless to them.
They said one of two things could happen. One, they fight and are defeated and leave to return again with full forces hundreds or even thousands of years later.
What's two?
They win.
What do you think about the idea that they don't like places near water, and we might be safe from them near a lake or something?
Sounds made up.
We'll have to board up the bedroom doors.
Where are we going to sleep?
The family room.
What about Isabelle?
We'll keep her in the garage, after dinner.
French toast... and mashed potatoes.
Now we're talking. How about you Merrill?
Stop crying!
Don't yell at her!
They'll read our minds!
You're scaring your sister.
I can't even imagine.
I hope they're doing better than we are. We don't even have helmets.
Did someone save me?
Yeah baby. I think someone did.
Okay, this guy is trying to scare us. He's messed with our property, he's coming around the house. It's time for an ass whoopin'!
This is not an intelligent way to approach this.
Explain, act crazy?
Curse and stuff.
I'm not going to curse.
You don't mean it. It's just for show.
It doesn't sound natural when I curse.
Just make noises then.
Explain noises.
Are you going to do this or what?
No I'm not.
You want him coming in the house next time?
I cursed.
I heard.
It was very dark.
Yes it was.
It was very dark.
Yes, it was.
This guy got on the roof in like a second.
Bo, can you turn down the volume until Officer Paski leaves?
That roof is over ten feet high.
He's telling you the truth, Edgar. Whoever it was, is very strong and can jump pretty high.
Pharmacy crowded?
I don't want any one of you spending time with Tracey Abernathy alone. Is that understood?
It's noise.
It's broken Morgan. It'll just keep doing this. Let's get out of the car okay?
It's probably picking up another baby monitor.
That's right.
Morgan, be careful.
I got him.
Do you think it's a possibility?
Yes.
How can you say that?
That wasn't the answer you wanted?
Can you at least pretend to be like you used to be? Give me some comfort?
Do you feel comforted?
Yes.
What does it matter then?
For the kids protection. All they were doing was watching TV from five a.m. I felt like they were getting obsessed like you said. They should be playing furry, furry rabbit or tea party or something right?
What's furry, furry rabbit?
That's a game isn't it? Anyway... There's been some interesting developments.
What time is it?
Eleven a.m. They're gone.
They caught it on tape and they've been playing it all morning. They found the bird. His head crushed in. When you see the footage it looks like the bird flew into a wall in the sky. They think they have some invisible shield thing going, like an optical illusion.
The bird could have had a heart attack and crushed his head when he fell.
Already thought of. Two other birds did the same thing an hour later. Not as dramatic. They lived. But you could see they hit something.
Where are you going?
Ray Reddy's house.
I'm sorry, what book is this?
Did they say what our chances would be if they did invade?
Chicken Teriyaki.
Good choice... I'm going to have a cheeseburger with bacon. Extra bacon.
Should we turn off the lights?
They already know we're here.
They're on the roof.
While they were trying to fix her up, all she kept asking about was you.
This is going to do nothing.
We have to go in the basement.
Did I ever tell you, I dislocated Uncle Merrill's arm?
Should we make a run for it out the back?
They're right behind the door.
He was only a year and half old.
What are you doing?
He was trying to eat a second chocolate bar. Your grandma said, "No." He tried to take a bite, so I grabbed it.
We won't be able to get out of there.
I'm sorry I hurt your arm.
Merrill 
I'm looking!
Merrill!
Got it!
They're distracting us?
From what?
I can feel air.
Me too.
It's getting stronger.
I'm close.
They're broadcasting...
It came on about two hours ago. Woke me up. We won Graham.
How many died?
They think over a hundred thousand. They're just estimates. But we held strong.
How do they know it's over?
A mass evacuation by them started about eight o'clock this morning. It's eleven now. They're leaving. Beat.
No.
Listen, there's things I can take and a couple things I can't and one of them I can't take, is when my older brother   who is everything I want to be, starts losing faith in things. I saw your eyes last night. I don't want to ever see your eyes like that again, okay? I'm serious.
He's been like that for awhile. We need to get him some medicine.
Have they said anything about our area?
Philadelphia and its outlying counties are cleared, but who knows for sure?
He's not strong enough to fight off another attack.
I know. We need to be sure, before we open that door Graham.
That's good enough for me.
Me too.
Don't touch him.
Graham.
Graham.
Don't.
You do?
I've had two separate folks tell me they think there are strangers around these parts the last couple of nights. Can't tell what they look like, cause they're staying in the shadows  covert like. No one's got hurt mind you... And that's the give away.
I see.
It's called probing. It's a military procedure. You send a reconnaissance group, very small, to check out things. Not to engage, but to evaluate the situation. Evaluate the level of danger. Make sure things are all clear...
Clear for what?
I got the bat at home... On the wall.
You got two minor league home run records don't you?
Five. The five longest.
Boy, why aren't you in the pros making stacks of cash and getting handfuls of T and A?
Hi sweetie.
Hi baby.
I was just taking a walk before dinner.
You love walks.
Does it hurt?
I don't feel much.
Good.
...Tell Morgan to play games  it's okay to be silly.
...I will.
...Tell Bo to listen to her brother. He'll always take care of her.
...I will.
...Tell Graham 
I'm here.
Tell him... See. Tell him to see.
And tell Merrill to swing away.
What? Colleen?... Colleen?
I think it's contaminated.
You don't even know what that word means.
It's not contaminated. It's just tap water. Pour it in his bowl.
It tastes funny.
He licks his butt everyday. He's not going to mind.
Not English though. You heard the voices right Uncle Merrill?
I heard them Morgan.
Listen Bo. This is very important. Everything people have written about in science books is going to change. The history of the world's future is on the TV right now. We need to record this so you can show your children this tape and say you were there... For your children Bo.
My ballet recital.
Dad!
The same windows.
That's weird.
I don't want you to die.
Who said I was going to die?
I'm scared.
Me too.
Houdini's sick.
Please tie up Isabelle to the back of the shed. Make sure the knot's tight.
What's the matter?
I saw a monster. Can I have a glass of water?
What's wrong with the water next to your bed?
It tastes old.
What's the rule about getting up in the middle of the night?
Only for pee or poop.
Right.
What are you thinking about?
Why do you talk to mom when you're by yourself?
It makes me feel better.
Does she ever answer back?
No.
She doesn't answer me either.
There's dust in it.
This one?
A hair.
This one?
Morgan took a sip. It has his amoebas in it.
See this is why we're not watching those news reports. People get obsessed. I'm letting go now.
No dad!
Daddy.
Don't touch him.
A famous actor who's getting married next week.
Oh, that's right. Isn't that nice? I hope that girls knows how lucky she is, marrying no less than Derek Summersby.
It was a surprise, Mom.
And I could have already put clean sheets on the other bed and the fold out. You are staying. Wendy, Ron and the twins are picking us up at 11:30 to go to brunch at the Sheraton. They do a magnificent job there. Wendy is so excited you're coming.
You talked to Wendy?
Just now. She's thrilled. And the kids.
Yeah, well. You know, Jack's pretty eager to get up to... you know, but, uh, yeah. We'll see how it goes.
Well, you boys do what you want. I just think it would be nice for us to be together as a family on my birthday.
Uhhuh. I'll be right back.
Miles, when are you going to get married again?
I just got divorced. Phyllis.
So what do you think?
Quaffable but far from transcendent.
Cabernet Franc. This is only the fifth year we've made this varietal. Very few wineries around here do a straight Cabernet Franc. It's from our vineyard up in Santa Maria. And it was a Silver Medal winner at Paso Robles last year.
Well, I've come to never expect greatness from a Cab Franc, and this one's no exception. Sort of a flabby, overripe 
What's everyone ordering? Then we can sort out the wine.
Exactement!
Should we get dessert?
We were thinking. Why don't we go back to my place? I've got wine, some insane cheeses, music, whatever.
Anything but the Jayer Richebourg!
She has a Richebourg? Mon dieu. I have completely underestimated Stephanie.
That was fun last night.
Yeah. Good food. You've got quite a wine collection. Very impressive.
Thanks. Hey, I talked to Maya this morning. She said she had a good time too. You should call her.
Where's Jack?
He had to make a phone call.
So what are you up to today, Miles?
Just kickin' back, I guess. I don't know. Jack and I were supposed to go golfing.
Huh.
Yeah, I reserved the tee time about a month ago.
Oops. Sorry.
You golf?
Me? No, I think it's kind of a stupid game. I mean, at least, I could never get into it. I tried it once.
Huh. Jack loves golf. Crazy about it.
Hi, guys. We should probably get going.
Where?
See you, Miles. You take care.
Bye, Stephanie. Bye, Siena, Caryl.
Stephanie! Stop!
You fucking bastard! Lying piece of shit! You're getting married on Saturday? What was all that shit you said to me?
How much skin and stem contact?
About four weeks.
Huh. That explains all the tannins. And how long in oak?
About a year.
French or American?
Both.
Good stuff.
Pour me a full glass. I'll pay for it.
This is a tasting, sir. Not a bar.
Sir, what are you doing?
I told you I need a drink.
Then buy a bottle and go outside.
Hello?
Victoria.
Miles?
Victoria! How the hell are you?
Fine. What's, uh, what's on your mind?
Heard you got remarried! Congratulations. Didn't think you had the stomach for another goround.
Oh, Miles. You're drunk.
Just some local Pinot, you know, then a little Burgundy. That old Cotes de Beaune!
Where are you?
A little place in Los Olivos. New owners. Cozy ambiance. Excellent food too  you should try it. Thought of you at the Hitching Post last night.
Hello?
Miles, don't call me when you're drunk.
I just wanted you to know I've decided not to go to the wedding, so in case you were dreading some uncomfortable, you know, runin or something, well, worry no more. You won't see me there. My wedding gift to you and what's hisname. What is his name?
Ken.
Ken.
Miles, I don't care if you come to the wedding or not.
Well, I'm not coming, Barbie. So you guys have fun.
I'm going to hang up now, Miles.
You see, Vicki, I just heard about this today, you getting married that is, and I was kind of taken aback. Kind of hard to believe.
I guess I just thought there was still some hope for us somewhere down the road and I just, I just 
Miles, maybe it is better if you don't come to the wedding.
Hi, Vicki. You look beautiful.
Thanks. Um, this is Ken Cortland, my husband.
That was big of him.
Yeah, he's good that way. Very considerate.
That's great.
So how're you doing?
Since the last time we spoke? I don't know. Could be better. Could be worse.
So what's happening with your book?
Universally rejected. Strike three.
Oh, Miles. That's awful. What are you going to do?
Back to the drawing board, I guess. Or not. So... you're married. Congratulations. You look happy.
I am.
Seems like everyone's getting married. A year ago it was all divorces. Now it's all weddings. Cyclical, I guess.
I guess.
Well, let's go have some champagne, shall we? Toast all the newlyweds.
Not me. I'm not drinking.
You quit drinking?
I'm pregnant.
Oh. Huh. Well... Congratulations again, Vicki. That's wonderful news.
See you over there, Miles.
Yeah.
Hey, Miles. Good to see you.
Maya, how are you?
I'm doing good, good. You look great. Did you lose some weight?
Oh, no, actually. Busy night.
Oh yeah, Sunday night. You guys been out tasting today?
You know it. This is my friend Jack. Jack, Maya.
You want to join us?
Sure.
So how's that book of yours going, Miles? I think you were almost done with it last time we talked.
I finished it.
Good for you.
Yeah, I know what you mean. It's a long drive up here. Where're you staying?
The Windmill.
Well, good to see you, Miles. Jack.
See you.
What are you drinking?
A Fiddlehead Sauvignon Blanc.
Oh yeah? How is it?
Try it.
Nice. Very nice.
Twelve months in oak.
On a Sauvignon Blanc?
I know the winemaker. She comes in the restaurant all the time.
This is good. Little hints of clove.
I know. I love that.
I'm having the salmon.
That's what I'm having.
Are you all right?
Fine. Just slipped. This is my blood.
Hi.
Hey.
She got anything good?
Oh, yeah. Steph's way into Pinots and Syrahs. Hey, Steph? You sure we can open anything? Anything we want?
So what gems do you have in your collection?
Not much of a collection really. I haven't had the wallet for that, so I sort of live bottle to bottle. But I've got a couple things I'm saving. I guess the star would be a 1961 Cheval Blanc.
You've got a '61 Cheval Blanc that's just sitting there? Go get it. Right now. Hurry up...
Seriously, the '61s are peaking, aren't they? At least that's what I've read.
Yeah, I know.
It might be too late already. What are you waiting for?
I don't know. Special occasion. With the right person. It was supposed to be for my tenth wedding anniversary.
The day you open a '61 Cheval Blanc, that's the special occasion.
How long have you been into wine?
I started to get serious about seven years ago.
What was the bottle that did it?
Eightyeight Sassicaia.
Wow. We gotta give it a moment, but this is tasty. Really good. How about you?
I think they overdid it a bit. Too much alcohol. Overwhelms the fruit.
Yeah, I'd say you're right on the money.
Is this Stephanie's kid? Sure is cute.
Yeah, Siena's a sweetie.
Is she sleeping or...?
She's with her grandmother. She's with Steph's mom. She spends a lot of time over there. Steph's... well, she's Stephanie.
You got kids?
Who me? Nah, I'd just fuck them up. That was the one unpolluted part of my divorce  no kids.
Yeah, same here.
It's kind of weird sitting here with you in Stephanie's house. All those times you came into the restaurant. It's like you're a real person now. Almost.
Yeah, I know. It's kind of weird. Out of context.
Yeah, weird. But great.
Yeah. Definitely.
So what's your novel about?
Well, it's a little difficult to summarize. It begins as a firstperson account of a guy taking care of his father after a stroke. Kind of based on personal experience, but only loosely.
What's the title?
"The Day After Yesterday."
Oh. You mean... today?
Um... yeah but it's more...
So is it kind of about death and mortality, or...?
Mrnmm, yeah... but not really. It shifts around a lot. Like you also start to see everything from the point of view of the father. And some other stuff happens, some parallel narrative, and then it evolves  or devolves  into a kind of a RobbeGrillet mystery  you know, with no real resolution.
Wow. Anyway, I think it's amazing you're getting it published. Really. I know how hard it is. Just to write it even.
Yeah. Thanks.
Like me, I have this stupid paper due on Friday, and as usual I'm freaked out about it. Just like in high school. It never changes.
A paper?
Yeah. I'm working on a masters in horticulture. Chipping away at it.
Horticulture? Wow. I didn't know there was a college here.
I commute to San Luis Obispo twice a week.
So... you want to work for a winery or something someday?
Well...
I do have a copy of the manuscript in the car. It's not fully proofed, but if you're okay with a few typos...
Oh yeah. Who cares? I'm the queen of typos. Wow, this is really starting to open up. What do you think?
My palate's kind of shot, but from what I can tell, I'd dub it pretty damn good.
Can I ask you a personal question?
Sure.
Why are you so into Pinot? It's like a thing with you.
I mean, Cabernets can be powerful and exalting, but they seem prosaic to me for some reason. By comparison. How about you?
What about me?
I don't know. Why are you into wine?
I suppose I got really into wine originally through my exhusband. He had a big, kind of showoff cellar. But then I found out that I have a really sharp palate, and the more I drank, the more I liked what it made me think about.
Yeah? Like what?
Like what a fraud he was.
Bathroom over there?
Yeah.
You know how to get back to the Windmill, right?
Got it.
I had a good time tonight, Miles. I really did.
Good. So did I.
Okay. See you around.
Um... did you still want to read my novel?
Oh, yeah. Sure. Of course.
Hope you like it. Feel free to stop reading at any time. I'll take no offense.
Goodnight, Miles.
Hey, Miles, I heard you came by the restaurant last night looking for me.
Oh, yeah. No. I mean yeah, I stopped by for a drink. Didn't see you.
I had class.
Well, nice to see you now.
You too.
You guys should stop by the restaurant for lunch today.
Great. What's the latest we can get there?
About twothirty.
Okay.
Did you hear about this Bordeaux tasting dinner down in Santa Barbara Saturday night? It's a little pricey, but if you wanted to go, I'd be into it. Why don't you stay through the weekend?
No, we've got to get back Friday for the rehearsal dinner.
What rehearsal dinner?
Were you ever going to say anything?
Of course I was. I mean, just now I could have made up some story, but I didn't. I told you the truth.
Maya.
Don't touch me. Just take me home.
I've told him. I've told him over and over, but he's out of control.
Do you know what he's been saying to her?
He's an actor, so it can't be good.
Oh, just that he loves her. That she's the only woman who has ever really rocked his world. How he adores Siena. How he wants to move up here and get a place with the two of them and commute when he has to.
I'm sure he believed every word.
Please believe me. I was even on the verge of telling you last night, but...
But you wanted to fuck me first.
Oh, Maya. No.
Yeah.
You know, I just spent three years trying to extricate myself from a relationship that turned out to be full of deception. And I've been doing just fine.
And I haven't been with anyone since my divorce. This has been a big deal for me, Maya  hanging out with you, and last night. I really like you, Maya. And I'm not Jack. I'm just his... his freshman roommate from San Diego State.
Hi. It's Maya. Please leave a message.
It's Miles. Listen, I don't know if you even care, but I had to call and tell you again how much I enjoyed our time together and how sorry I am things turned out the way they did. I think you're great, Maya  always have. From the first time you waited on me. And while I'm at it, I guess you should know that my book is not getting published. I thought this one had a chance, but I was wrong. Again. Don't bother reading it  you've got better things to do. So you see I'm not much of a writer. I'm not anything really. The only real talent I seem to have is for disappointing people and now you know that firsthand. We're leaving in the morning, and I want you to know that I take with me wonderful memories of you. I'm sorry. I'm really sorry.
Where the fuck were you, man? I was dying in there. We were supposed to be a hundred miles away by now.
I can't help the traffic.
Come on. You're fucking hungover.
Okay, there was a tasting last night. But I wanted to get us some stuff for the ride up. Check out the box.
Why did you tell them my book was being published?
You said you had it all lined up.
No, I didn't. What I said was that my agent had heard there was some interest at Conundrum...
Yeah, Conundrum.
...and that one of the editors was passing it up to a senior editor. She was supposed to hear something this week, but now it's next week, and... It's always like this. It's always a fucking waiting game. I've been through it too many times already.
I don't know. Senior editor? Sounds like you're in to me.
It's a long shot, all right? And Conundrum is just a small specialty press anyway. I'm not getting my hopes up. I've stopped caring. That's it. I've stopped caring.
Don't open that now. It's warm.
Come on, we're celebrating. I say we pop it.
That's a 1992 Byron. It's really rare. Don't open it now. I've been saving it!
Shut up. Here's to a great week.
Yes. Absolutely. Despite your crass behavior, I'm really glad we're finally getting this time together.
Yeah.
You know how long I've been begging to take you on the wine tour. I was beginning to think it was never going to happen.
Oh, that's tasty.
100% Pinot Noir. Single vineyard. They don't even make it anymore.
Pinot Noir? How come it's white? Doesn't noir mean dark?
Jesus. Don't ask questions like that up in the wine country. They'll think you're a moron.
Just tell me.
Color in the red wines comes from the skins. This juice is free run, so there's no skin contact in the fermentation, ergo no color.
Sure is tasty.
Did you read the latest draft, by the way?
Oh, yeah. Yeah.
And?
I liked it a lot. A lot of improvements. It just seemed overall, I don't know, tighter, more... congealed or something.
How about the new ending? Did you like that?
Oh yeah. Much better.
There is no new ending. Page 750 on is exactly the same.
Well, then I guess it must have felt new because everything leading up to it was so different.
Whoa, why are we getting off?
I've just got to make one quick stop. Won't take a second.
What?
I thought we could just say a quick hello to my mother.
Your mother? Jesus, Miles, we were supposed to be up there hours ago.
It's her birthday tomorrow. And I don't feel right driving by her house and not stopping in, okay? It'll just take a second. She's right off the freeway.
How old's she going to be?
Um... seventy... something.
That's a good age.
Let me show you something. The secret to opening champagne is that once the cork is released, you keep pressure on it so you don't 
Just a second. Guy's going for $2500.
This Saturday, Mom, remember? We told you.
And Miles is my best man, Mrs. Raymond. My main man.
Fuck, man. Too early in the morning for that, you know what I mean?
She's a kid, Jack. I don't even look at that stuff anymore.
That's your problem, Miles.
As if she'd even be attracted to guys like us in the first place.
Speak for yourself. I get chicks looking at me all the time. All ages.
It's not worth it. You pay too big a price. It's never free.
It'd be the best thing for you. You know what? I'm going to get you laid this week. That's going to be my best man gift to you. I'm not going to give you a pen knife or a gift certificate or any of that other horseshit.
I'd rather have a knife.
No. No. You've been officially depressed for like two years now, and you were always a negative guy anyway, even in college. Now it's worse  you're wasting away. Teaching English to fucking eighthgraders when they should be reading what you wrote. Your books.
I'm working on it.
You still seeing that shrink?
I went on Monday. But I spent most of the time helping him with his computer.
Well, I say fuck therapy and what's that stuff you take, Xanax?
And Lexapro, yes.
Well, I say fuck that. You need to get your joint worked on, that's what you need.
Jack. This week is not about me. It's about you. I'm going to show you a good time. We're going to drink a lot of good wine, play some golf, eat some great food, enjoy the scenery and send you off in style.
And get your bone smooched.
You know what? Let's take the Santa Rosa turnoff and hit Sanford first.
Whatever's closest, man. I need a glass.
These guys make topnotch Pinot and Chardonnay. One of the best producers in Santa Barbara county. Look how beautiful this view is. What a day!
I thought you hated Chardonnay.
I like all varietals. I just don't generally like the way they manipulate Chardonnay in California  too much oak and secondary malolactic fermentation.
Hey, Miles. I really hope your novel sells.
Thanks, Jack. So do I. Here we are.
So what'd you guys finally decide on for the menu?
I told you. Filet and salmon.
Yeah, but how are they making the salmon? Poached with a yogurtdill sauce? Teriyaki? Curry?
I don't know. Salmon. Don't you always have white wine with fish?
Oh, Jesus. Look, at some point we have to find out because it's going to make a big difference.
Let me call Christine.
Doesn't have to be now. Let's go taste.
I owe her a call anyway.
Baked with a butterlime glaze.
Now we're talking.
This is rose, right?
Good, yeah, it is a rose. Only this one is rather atypically made from 100% Pinot Noir.
Pinot noir? Not again! You know, not all Pinots are noir.
First take your glass and examine the wine against the light. You're looking at color and clarity.
What color is it supposed to be?
Depends on the varietal. Just get a sense of it. Thick? Thin? Watery? Syrupy? Inky? Amber, whatever...
Huh.
Now tip it. What you're doing here is checking for color density as it thins toward the rim. Tells you how old it is, among other things, usually more important with reds. This is a very young wine, so it's going to retain its color pretty solidly. Now stick your nose in it.
What do you smell?
I don't know. Wine? Fermented grapes?
Huh. Maybe a little strawberry. Yeah, strawberry. I'm not so sure about the cheese.
Now set your glass down and get some air into it.
That's what you do with every one.
When do we get to drink it?
Now.
How would you rate this one?
Usually they start you on the wines with learning disabilities, but this one's pretty damn good. This is the new one, right, Chris?
You know, you could work in a wine store.
Yeah, that would be a good move.
Are you chewing gum?
Want some?
Hey Jack, hurry up!
Just a minute!
I thought you said it was close. Now I'm all pitted out.
It's not even a mile.
We should have driven.
Not with the wine list these people have. We don't want to hold back.
You think I'm making a mistake marrying Christine?
Whoa.
Come on, do you think I'm doing the right thing? Tell the truth. You've been through it.
Well, you waited for good reason, and you proposed to Christine for some good reason. So I think it's great. It's time. You've got to have your eyes open, that's all. I mean, look at me. I thought Victoria and I were set for life.
Christine's dad  he's been talking about bringing me into his property business. Showing me the ropes. And that's something, considering how long it took him to get over I'm not Armenian. So I'm thinking about it. But I don't know, might get a little incestuous. But Mike does pretty well. A lot of highend commercial stuff.
So you're going to stop acting?
No way. This would just provide some stability is what I'm saying. I can always squeeze in an audition or a commercial here and there, you know, keep myself in the game in case something big comes along.
Uhhuh.
We're not getting any younger, right? And my career, well, it's gotten pretty, you know, frustrating. Even with my new manager. Maybe it's time to settle down.
If that's what feels right.
It does. Feels right.
Then it's a good thing.
Yeah. It's good. Feels good.
Yeah. Tight.
Pour us a couple.
Here's to my last week of freedom.
It's going to be great. Here's to us.
Oh, yeah. That's Maya.
You know her?
Sure I know Maya.
You know that chick?
Jack, this is where I eat when I come up here. It's practically my office. And sometimes I have a drink with the employees. Maya's great. She's worked here about a year, maybe a year and a half.
She is very hot.
And very nice. And very married. Check out the rock.
Doesn't mean shit. When Christine was a hostess at Sushi Roku, she wore a big engagement ring to keep guys from hitting on her. Think it worked? Fuck no. How do you think I met her?
This gal's married to I think a Philosophy professor at UC Santa Barbara.
So what's a professor's wife doing waitressing? Obviously that's over.
You don't know anything about this woman. Calm down. Let's just eat, okay? The duck is excellent and pairs nicely with the Highliner Pinot.
Jesus, she's jammin'. And she likes you. What else do you know about her?
Well, she does know a lot about wine.
Ooooooohh. Now we're getting somewhere.
And she likes Pinot.
Perfect.
Jack, she's a fucking waitress in Buellton. How would that ever work?
Why do you always focus on the negative? Didn't you see how friendly she was to you?
She works for tips!
You're blind, dude. Blind.
The girl is looking to party, and you tell her we're going to go back to our motel room and crash? Jesus, Miles!
Well, I'm tired. Aren't you tired?
The chick digs you. She lit up like a pinball machine when she heard your novel was getting published.
Now I've got another lie to live down. Thanks, Jack.
I'm trying to get you some action, but you've got to help me out just a little bit.
Didn't seem to me like that's what was going on. You were all over her.
Somebody had to do the talking. And by the way, I was right. She's not married.
How do you know?
No rock. When she came to the bar, sans rock.
Single. Waitress. Getting off work. Looking for love. A little slap and tickle.
Shut up.
She probably went home, lit some candles, put on some relaxing music, took a nice hot bath, and laid down on her bed with her favorite vibrator.
Have you no shame?
Oooh. Oh. Miles. Miles.
Fuck you.
So what're we going to have? Pigs in a blanket? The "rancher's special breakfast"? Or maybe just some grease and fat with a side of lard?
So what's the plan today?
We head north, begin the grape tour up there, make our way south so the more we drink the closer we get to the motel.
I am going to get my nut on this trip, Miles. And you are not going to fuck it up for me with all your depression and anxiety and neghead downer shit.
Ooooh, now the cards are on the table.
Yes they are. And I'm serious. Do not fuck with me. I am going to get laid before I settle down on Saturday. Do you read me?
Sure, big guy. Whatever you say. It's your party. I'm sorry I'm in the way and dragging you down. Maybe you'd have a better time on your own. You take the car. I'll catch the train back.
No, see, I want both of us to get crazy. We should both be cutting loose. I mean, this is our last chance. This is our week! It should be something we share.
Nice, huh?
Beautiful.
Victoria and I used to like this view. Once we had a picnic here and drank a '95 Opus One. With smoked salmon and artichokes, but we didn't care.
Miles.
She has the best palate of any woman I've ever known. She could even differentiate Italian wines.
Miles, I gotta tell you something. Victoria's coming to the wedding.
I know. You told me. I'm okay with it.
Yeah, but that's not the whole story. She got remarried.
She what? When?
About a month ago. Six weeks.
To that guy? That guy with the restaurant...
Jesus Christ, Miles. Get out!
I want to go home now.
You've been divorced for two years already. People move on. She has! It's like you enjoy selfpity. Makes you feel special or something.
Is she bringing him to the wedding?
What do you think?
You drop this bombshell on me. Why didn't you tell me before?
Because I knew you'd freak out and probably get so depressed you wouldn't even come on this trip. But then I figured here would be the best place to tell you. We're here to forget about all that shit. We're here to party!
I'm going to be a fucking pariah. Everyone's just going to be holding their breath to see if I'm going to get drunk and make a scene. Plus Tony fucking Levin?
No, no, no. It's cool. I talked to Victoria. She's cool. Everyone's cool.
You've all been talking about it? Behind my back? Talking about it?
You gotta excuse him. Yesterday he didn't know Pinot Noir from film noir.
I'm a quick learner.
A bad girl, Miles. She might need to be spanked.
Do you know how often these pourers get hit on?
Get the trunk.
You have the keys.
We're on.
What?
She called Maya, who's not working tonight, so we're all going out.
With Maya?
Been divorced for a year now, bud.
Stephanie, holy shit. Chick had it all going on.
Well, she is cute.
Cute? She's a fucking hottie. And you almost tell her I'm getting married. What's the matter with you? Gotta love it. Gotta love it.
You know how often these pourers get hit on? I'm going for a swim. Get the blood flowing. Want to come?
Nah. I want to watch this.
So what should I wear?
I don't know. Casual but nice. They think you're a writer.
Please just try to be your normal humorous self, okay? Like who you were before the tailspin. Do you remember that guy? People love that guy. And don't forget  your novel is coming out in the fall.
Oh yeah? How exciting. What's it called?
Do not sabotage me. If you want to be a lightweight, that's your call. But do not sabotage me.
Ayeaye, captain.
And if they want to drink Merlot, we're drinking Merlot.
If anyone orders Merlot, I'm leaving. I am not drinking any fucking Merlot!
Okay, okay. Relax, Miles, Jesus. No Merlot. Did you bring your Xanax?
And don't drink too much. I don't want you going to the dark side or passing out. Do you hear me? No going to the dark side.
Okay! Fuck!
Pull yourself together, man.
I'm fine!
Where were you?
Bathroom.
Did you drink and dial?
Stop it. You are blowing a great opportunity here, Miles. Fucking Maya, man. She's great. She's cool. She's funny. She knows wine. What is this morose comedown bullshit? These girls want to party. And what was that fucking tenminute lecture on, what was it, Vouvrays? I mean, come on!
Let's just say I'm uncomfortable with the whole scenario.
Oh Jesus, Miles.
And don't forget all the bad times you had with Victoria. How small she make you feel. That's why you had the affair in the first place.
Shut up. Shut your face.
Don't you see how Maya's looking at you? You got her on the hook. Reel her in! Come on, let's rachet this up a notch. You know how to to do it. Here. Drink some agua.
Goddamn, Miles, she is nasty. Nasty nasty nasty.
Well, I'm glad you got it out of your system. Congratulations. Mission accomplished.
Oh, hey, change of plans. Steph's off today, so she and I are going on a hike.
We were supposed to play golf.
You go. In fact, use my clubs. They're brand new  gift from Christine's dad. It's on me. Oh, say, by the way, Stephanie and me were thinking we'd all go to the Hitching Post tonight and sit at one of Maya's tables, and she'll bring us some great wines and then we can all 
Count me out.
Oooh, I see. Didn't go so good last night, huh? That's a shocker. You mean getting drunk and calling Victoria didn't put you in the mood? You dumb fuck. Your divorce pain's getting real old real fast, dude.
Later.
Yeah, well, maybe you should check your messages first.
Oh, boy.
She's been leaving messages here too.
Yeah. Okay.
You should call her.
I will. See ya!
Right now.
Okay! Jesus!
What'd Christine say?
Lucked out  got voice mail. Everything's cool.
Hey, there you are.
Yep.
What're you drinking?
Where is Stephanie?
Upstairs. Getting cleaned up.
What the fuck are you doing?
What?
With this chick.
Does she know about Saturday?
Um... not exactly. But I've been honest. I haven't told her I'm available. And she knows this trip up here is only for a few days. Besides...
Besides what?
Well... I don't know, just... the wedding.
What?
Well, I've been doing some thinking.
Oh, you've been thinking. And?
I may have to put the wedding on hold is all.
Being with Stephanie has opened my eyes. She's not uptight or controlling. She's just cool. Things are so easy with her. Smells different. Tastes different. Fucks different. Fucks like an animal. I'm telling you, I went deep last night, Miles. Deep.
Deep.
I was hoping to get some understanding from you. And I'm not getting it.
Understanding of what?
Like I might be in love with another woman.
In love? Twentyfour hours with some winepourer chick and you think you're in love? And give up everything?
Look who's talking. You've been there.
Yes I have, and do I look like a happy man? Was all that drama with Brenda a happy thing for me to do? Huh? Was it? Is she a part of my life now?
This is totally different. I'm talking about avoiding what you're talking about. That's the distinction. I have not made the commitment yet. I am not married. I have not said the words. In a few days, I might get married, and if I do, then I won't be doing stuff like this anymore. Otherwise, what's the whole point of getting married?
And what about Stephanie? She's a woman  with a kid. A single mom. What do you think she's looking for? Huh?
Here's what I'm thinking. We move up here, you and me, buy a vineyard. You design your own wine; I'll handle the business side. Then you get inspired and write a new novel. As for me, if an audition comes along, hell, LA'S two hours away. Not even.
You're crazy. You've gone crazy.
What do you care anyway? You don't even like Christine.
What? Of course I like Christine.
You said she was shallow. Yeah, and a nouveau riche.
That was three years ago after that first party!
Look, Miles, all I know is I'm an actor. All I have is my instinct. My intuition  that's all I have. And you're asking me to go against it. And that's just wrong.
Listen, I'm going to make sure Steph and Siena get home safe, and then maybe we'll hook up with you later, okay?
Sure, whatever. Maybe I'll catch a movie.
Call me on my cell if you go out.
Yeah.
That's a public course. No Stephanie?
She's working. I need a break anyway. She's getting a little clingy. This is our day!
Did you ever got ahold of Maya yesterday?
Nope.
She likes you, man. Stephanie'll tell you.
Can you give me some room here?
Oh yeah. Sure.
You know, in life you gotta strike when the iron's hot.
Thanks, Jack.
Nice shot.
You're an asshole.
What about your agent? Hear anything yet?
Nope.
What do you think's going on?
Could be anything.
Been checking your messages?
Obsessively.
Huh.
They probably think my book is such a piece of shit that it's not even worthy of a response. I guess I'll just have to learn how to kiss off three years of my life.
But you don't know yet, so your negativity's a bit premature, wouldn't you say?
Don't come over the top. Stay still.
Shut up.
Just trying to be helpful. It's all about stillness, Miles. Inner quiet.
Shut up! Shut up! Shut up! What's the matter with you, man? SHUT UP!
Why are you so hostile? I know you're frustrated with your life right now, but you can choose not to be so hostile. Here.
What is it?
I don't know. Got it from Stephanie.
Fucker hit into us.
Hey, asshole! That's not cool!
Throw me his ball.
Just don't give up on Maya. Cool smart chicks like that they like persistence.
I don't want to talk about it.
All I know is she's beautiful. Lots of soul. Perfect for you. I'm not going to feel good about this trip until you guys hook up. Don't you just want to feel that cozy little box grip down on your Johnson?
Is it the money thing?
Is what the money thing?
With Maya.
Well, yeah, that's part of it. Woman finds out how I live, that I'm not a published author, that I'm a liar essentially, then yeah, any interest is gonna evaporate real quick. If you don't have money at my age, you're not even in the game. You're just a pasture animal waiting for the abattoir.
Is an abattoir like a... like a... what is that?
Slaughterhouse.
Abattoir. Huh. But you are going to get the good news this week about your book. I know you are. I can feel it.
We're on.
What's happening?
We're going to have some fun. Remember fun? We're going to have some of it. Okay?
What exactly are we going to do?
I said okay?
You have to tell me 
I SAID OKAY?
You ever actually read any of this guy's books?
He wrote a great one on Burgundy, and I used to get his newsletter, but then there were doubts about whether he does all his own tasting. Plus a couple of times he declared certain years vintages of the century, and they turned out to be turkeys. Fucker never retracted.
Huh.
Yo! Yo! Here's my boy! Here's my boy! Who's your daddy, boy? Who is yo' daddy?
Put me down, Jack.
So tell me everything. Details. I like details.
No.
What?
It's private.
You're kidding, right? Tell me what happened, you fucker, or I'll tie your dick in a knot.
Let's leave it alone.
You didn't get any, did you? You're a homo.
Just stop, okay? Make something up, and that's what happened. Whatever you want. Write my confession, and I'll sign it. Just stop pushing me all the time! I can't take it! You're an infant! This is all a big party for you, but not for me! This is serious. And you  Just... leave me alone, okay? You're fucking me up.
Wow. Okay. Calm down. Sorry.
Did you have trouble performing? Yeah, that's...
Shut up! Shut up, Jack!
This whole week has gone sour. It isn't turning out like it was supposed to. I want to go home.
Who's being selfish now? I'm the one getting married. I thought this week was supposed to be about me.
We gotta slow down. I'm so tired. Let's just get out of here.
I know what you need.
Do you like them?
Yeah, they're great. Sporty. They're really sporty.
Are they too sporty?
How about this one? We didn't hit this one.
Yeah, it's Frass Canyon. It's a joke.
You ever actually been in there, Miles?
I don't have to.
I say we check it out. You never know.
Tastes like the back of a fucking LA schoolbus. Probably didn't destem, hoping for some semblance of concentration, crushed it up with leaves and mice, wound up with this rancid tar and turpentine mouthwash bullshit. Fucking Raid.
I don't know. Tastes okay to me. Hey, they got a reserve pinot.
Let me use your phone.
What's up?
I can't take it anymore. I've got to call Evelyn.
Just write another one. You have lots of ideas, right?
No, I'm finished. I'm not a writer. I'm a middleschool English teacher. I'm going to spend the rest of my life grading essays and reading the works of others. It's okay. I like books. The world doesn't give a shit what I have to say. I'm unnecessary. I'm so insignificant, I can't even kill myself.
What's that supposed to mean?
You know  Hemingway, Sexton, Woolf, Plath, Delmore Schwartz. You can't kill yourself before you've even been published.
What about that guy who wrote Confederacy of Dunces? He committed suicide before he got published, and look how famous he is.
Thanks.
Don't give up. You're going to make it.
Half my life is over, and I have nothing to show for it. I'm a thumbprint on the window of a skyscraper. I'm a smudge of excrement on a tissue surging out to sea with a million tons of raw sewage.
See? Right there. Just what you just said. That's beautiful. A thumbprint on a skyscraper. I couldn't write that.
Neither could I. I think it's Bukowski.
Aren't you glad you didn't move up here and marry her?
Don't need a lecture. You fucking told Maya, didn't you?
No, I did not. Must have been Gary at the Hitching Post. I think we mentioned it to him the first night.
You told him. I'm fucking hurting here.
Keep it elevated.
Well?
I'm going to need an operation. Maybe a couple of them. They have to wait for it it to heal first. Then they break it again.
Good thing you have a voiceover career.
Gonna fuck that up too. I should sue her ass. Only reason I won't is to protect Christine.
That's thoughtful.
Yeah.
So how did Stephanie know it was Saturday? We didn't get into that with Gary.
Huh. Let me think.
You sure you didn't say anything to Maya?
Sure I'm sure. And just what are you implying? I'm really pissed off at you about all this, if you want to know the truth. What's Maya going to think of me now just for associating with you? You're the one who's sabotaging me, not the other way around, pal. Not by a longshot.
What's it look like to you?
Looks like you were in a bad car accident.
You know what I'm thinking?
What's that?
I'm thinking it's time to settle down. One woman. One house. You know. It's time.
Uhhuh.
I bet you that chick is two tons of fun. You know, the grateful type.
I don't know. I wouldn't know.
She gets off in an hour, so I think I'm just going to have a drink and then... make sure she gets home safe.
You're joking, right? What are you doing? Unfucking believeable. Can we just go back to the hotel and hang out and get up early and play nine holes before we head home?
Fucking chick's married.
What?
Her husband works a night shift or something, and he comes home, and I'm on the floor with my cock in his wife's ass.
Jesus, Jack. Jesus. And you walked all the way back from Solvang?
Ran. Twisted my ankle too.
That's five clicks, Jackson.
Fuckinga it's five clicks! At one point I had to cut through an ostrich farm. Fuckers are mean.
We gotta go back.
What?
I left my wallet. My credit cards, cash, fucking ID, everything. We gotta go back.
Big deal. We'll call right now and cancel your cards.
You don't understand. The wedding bands. The wedding bands are in my wallet.
Okay, so they were in your wallet, and you left your wallet somewhere. Some bar. Christine'll understand.
No. She ordered them special. Took her forever to find them. They've got this design on them with dolphins and our names engraved in Sanskrit. We've got to go back. Christine'll fucking crucify me.
No way. No way.
Please, Miles, please.
Forget it. Your wallet was stolen at a bar. Happens every day.
She tell you she was married?
Yeah.
So what the fuck were you thinking?
Wasn't supposed to be back till six. Fucker rolls in at five.
Cutting it a little close, don't you think? So how was she? Compared to Stephanie, say.
Horny as shit. Flopping around like a landed trout.
So what's the plan?
The plan is... you go.
Me?
My ankle. Just go explain the situation.
Uh, excuse me, sir, but my friend was the one balling your wife a couple hours ago, and he seems to have left his wallet behind, and we were wondering...
Yeah, yeah. Like that. Just like that.
Fuck you. I'll get it myself.
Hold on.
Hey, Jack. Jack.
Hrnrnrn?
That was quite a day yesterday.
Yep. Quite a day.
Quite a week.
Want me to drive?
No, I'm okay.
Hey, why don't you invite Maya to the wedding?
Somehow I don't think inviting Maya to your wedding is the right move. In fact, after your bullshit, it's going to be hard for me to even go to the Hitching Post again.
You're so negative.
Come on, let me drive.
I'm fine. You rest.
I feel like driving.
What's wrong?
Nothing. Buckle up, okay?
What the fuck!
You said it looked like a car accident.
What the fuck!
I'll pay for it.
Look at this!
I don't know. Doesn't look like anybody got hurt in this one.
Oh, no. Oh, Christ. No, you don't.
You need a new car anyway.
You broke some.
Whatever. Sorry.
No, not whatever. You fucking derelict.
Well. That about does it.
Why don't you come in?
Uhuh. You're on your own.
So I'll see you at the rehearsal.
Yeah.
Love you, man.
Back at you.
Hey, don't pull away till they see the car.
Yeah. Hey, why wasn't I injured?
You were wearing your belt.
Hiya.
Hi. Well, nice to see you guys here. Bye, Miles.
Highliner, please.
That's on us.
Are you a writer too?
No, I'm an actor.
Oh yeah? What kind of stuff?
A lot of TV. I was a regular on a couple of series. And lately I've been doing a lot of commercials. National mostly.
Anything I'd know?
Maybe. Recognize this?
That's hilarious. You sound just like one of those guys.
I am one of those guys.
You are not.
Whatever you girls want. It's on us tonight. Sky's the limit.
No, we're paying for the wine.
I don't think so. We're celebrating Miles's book deal.
Well, in that case...
Hey, guys. How's it going?
Excellent. My friend and I are up here doing the wine tour, and he tells me that you folks make one hell of a Syrah.
That's what people say.
Now there's a girl who knows how to pour. What's your name?
Stephanie.
Nice.
Tastes good to me. You live around here, Stephanie?
In Santa Ynez. And I agree with you about Cab Franc.
Oh yeah? We're just over in Buellton. Windmill Inn.
Oh yeah.
You know a gal named Maya? Works at the Hitching Post?
Sure I know Maya. Real well.
No shit. We just had a drink with her last night. Miles knows her.
You're a bad, bad girl, Stephanie.
I know. I might need to be spanked.
How you doin' tonight, beautiful?
Good. How're you?
Great. You look great. You both do.
Not so bad yourself.
I'm thinking about the duck breast.
Me too.
What happened to you guys?
Couple of wrong turns. Thanks to Magellan, here.
Hi.
Hi. Maya's in the kitchen.
I can explain.
You said you loved me! You fuck! I hope you die!
They're from both of us.
A famous actor bringing me flowers on my birthday. Don't I feel special?
Jeez, Mrs. Raymond, that was eleven years ago.
Well, you were wonderful on that show. I never understood why they had to give you that brain tumor so soon. Why that didn't make you the biggest movie star in the world is a sin. It's a sin.
Yeah, well, you should be my agent.
If I was, I would sing your praises up and down the street until they put me in the loony bin. Now Miles, why didn't you tell me you were coming and bringing this handsome man? Look how I'm dressed. I've got to run and put my face on.
You look fabulous, Mrs. Raymond.
Oh, stop it. Make yourselves comfortable. You boys hungry?
Mrs. Raymond, this is delicious. Absolutely delicious.
They're just leftovers.
Is it chicken?
I could have made something fancier if a certain someone had let me know that a certain someone was coming for a visit with a certain special friend. Could have made a pork roast.
And what was that other one you did, the one where you're the jogger?
Oh, that was for, uh, wait... That was for Spray and Wash.
Spray and Wash. That's the one.
Yeah, I remember the girl who was in it with me. She was something.
I just remember you jogging. So when's the wedding?
Two years ago, buddy.
You should get back together with Victoria. She was good for you.
She was good for you. And so beautiful and intelligent. You knew her, right?
Oh, yeah. Real well. Still do.
I'm worried about you, Miles. Do you need some money?
Hey, Miles. Long time no see.
Gary.
When's that novel of yours coming out? We all want to read it.
Soon, soon. Say, this is my buddy Jack. He's getting married next week.
My condolences.
What are you pouring tonight?
Lot of good stuff. Got the new Bien Nacido. Want a taste?
Absolutement. They have their own label that's just outstanding.
What do you think?
Tight as a nun's asshole but qood concentration. Nice fruit.
How's it hanging, Miles?
You know me. I love it up here. How about you?
Busy night for a Tuesday. We had a busload of retired folks in on a wine tour. Usually they're not too rowdy, but tonight there was something going on. Full moon or something. What can I get you?
Highliner.
Glass or bottle?
Bottle.
You got it.
Say, is Maya working?
Maya? Haven't seen her. I think she's off tonight. Say, where's your buddy?
You okay, Miles?
I'm good.
Miles.
Hey, Evelyn, it's your favorite client.
How's the trip?
Good, good. Drinking some good wines and kicking back, you know. So what's happening? Still no word?
Actually there is word. I spoke to Keith Kurtzman this morning.
And?
And... they're passing. Conundrum's passing. He said they really liked it. They really wanted to do it, but they just couldn't figure out how to market it. He said it was a tough call.
Huh.
I'm sorry, Miles. So I don't know where that leaves us. I'm not sure how much more mileage I can get out of continuing to submit it. I think it's one of those unfortunate cases in the business right now  a fabulous book with no home. The whole industry's gotten gutless. It's not about the quality of the books. It's about the marketing.
Are you there? Miles?
Yeah, I'm here.
I'm sorry, Miles. We did all we could. You've been a real trooper. Tell him I'll call back.
So I guess that's it.
You're a wonderful writer, Miles. Don't be discouraged.
Don't bother him with that. We got to get going.
It'll just take a second.
It's Christine. Hey you.
You guys having fun?
Yeah. All twenty minutes so far have been a blast.
Good. That's good.
So what's up?
Just seeing how you're doing. And, um, Mom and I were starting to look over the seating charts again, and we're wondering if you wanted Tony Levin to sit next to the Feldmans, or should he be at one of the singles tables?
Really? Because I don't know, I was thinking that 
Well, then put him at the singles table.
The problem with that is that then there's one extra 
Then put him with the Feldmans. Whatever you and your Mom decide is fine with me.
Don't dismiss me. I'm trying to include you in this decision. He's your friend.
I didn't dismiss you. I told you what I thought, but it didn't seem to matter, so you decide. Besides, this is supposed to be my time with Miles. I hope you're not going to call every five minutes.
I'm not going to call every five minutes, but this is important.
Honey, I'm just saying you know I need a little space before the wedding. Isn't that the point of this? Isn't that what we talked about with Dr. Gertler?
Why are you being so defensive?
I don't know, Christine. Perhaps it's because I feel attacked.
I ask you one simple question, and suddenly I'm attacking you.
Listen. I'll call you when we get there, and we can talk about it then, okay?
Bye.
I love you.
Bye.
You don't think I fuck you, bitch? I'll fuck you.
I'm a bad girl. I'm a bad girl.
You picked him up and you fucked him, didn't you, bitch?
I picked him up and I fucked him. I'm a bad girl.
And you liked fucking him, didn't you, you fat little whore?
I liked it when you caught me fucking him.
The fuck was that?
The wallet! He took Derek's wallet!
Nice technique there... ...Cammi.
It's all in the wrist. You know, you look really familiar. You from around here? Where'd you go to high school?
No, we're from San Diego. Why?
I don't know. You just seem really familiar to me. Never mind. Enjoy your meals.
Hang on. Did you ever know a Derek Sommersby?
Doctor Derek Sommersby? You mean from "One Life to Live"?
And none of them worked?
No.
And we also know how you feel, we're not strangers to confusion.
We're not confused.
Isn't she lovely?
Mommy and Daddy love you, Baby.
She walks in beauty...
We love you, Baby.
We all love Janet...Who do we love?
Hi! Macy Struthers  cohost on the F. F. show.
Ah, Macy. Why don't you help Janet freshen up before rehearsal.
Surely.
So all in all it's going to be an exciting new series for us...
...and an attractive financial prospect for Denton.
THIS COULD BE THE START OF A WHOLE NEW CAREER HERE
LIKE A DEEP PLUM LIPSTICK AND SOME THERAPEUTICS
THIS COULD TAKE US TO A TOWN THAT'S NOWHERE NEAR HERE
Ah. Mr. And Mrs. Majors. How wonderful to see you. I am Dr. Cosmo McKinley and this is my sister, and colleague, Nation McKinley.
We understand you've been going through a rather trying time.
Our speciality.
I can't wait to begin on him. Really, Bert, I don't know what we'd do without you!
HE!!?? How dare this person take advantage of my weakness.
I don't think he intends to go that far.
Our field.
What does he know about it?
It's you we're concerned about, Janet.
Yes how are you, Janet? Are you happy?
That's an extremely negative response.
Yes, Janet. Leave the crying to Brad.
This is the nerve center of operations, Janet. You must stay here tonight. That way we can all be here when Mr. Sun paints us a new day with his golden brush.
And you can 'peep in' on Brad in the morning.
I FEEL THE HEAT FROM YOUR SKIN AND THE STUBBLE ON YOUR CHIN YOU'RE NO GOOD
YOU'RE NO GOOD
YOU'VE GOT DIRT ON YOUR HANDS AND EVERYBODY UNDERSTANDS YOU'RE NO GOOD
YOU'RE NO GOOD
WHAT A JOKE...
WHAT A JOKE...
YOU FEL LIKE CHOKING YOU PLAY FOR BROKE...
YOU PLAY FOR BROKE...
HE LEAVES YOU SMOKING...
OH ROMANCE IS NOT A CHILDREN'S GAME...
YOU KEEP GOING BACK IT'S DRIVING YOU INSANE
THAT MINIMAL
CRIMINAL
CRIMINAL
SINIFUL
This could be worse than the old series.
In the old series we didn't have a convertible.
Let's hear the five 'F's' for today. F for...
Farley!
F for...
Flavors!
F for...
Fabulous!
F for...
Fast!
F for...
Foods!
No! He's never done that before.
Good! Well there's still hope. Lots of hope.
Just one or two details. Does he have any living relatives? Blood relatives?
No...couldn't I do this later?
I'm...happy.
There are countless people in this world who believe they're happy.
Brad has deep feelings of hostility towards you.
Me?
It's classical. Almost a textbook case...
I want to see Brad.
I understand your concern, but I feel it's time you started thinking of yourself. Look at yourself.
Is it true they're all midgets with big heads?
Absolutely true. Compared to all of them, you are perfection, flawless beauty.
You are the most desirable creature that ever walked.
If only Brad could have found it within his heart to say these things to me.
He will. But it's up to you to reawaken his feelings. You've got to be fabulous, look, think and appear fabulous. And Farley's given you that chance. You can use the Breakfast Show to knock Denton dead.
Do you really think so?
You've got a really tight team around you. And everybody needs you!
But what'll I do? What'll I say? What'll I wear?
EVER SINCE I WAS A LITTLE BOY DRESSING UP HAS ALWAYS BEEN MY GREATEST JOY BUT WHEN IT'S TIME TO BE DISCREET THERE'S ONE THING YOU JUST CAN'T BEAT THAT'S A STRAPLESS, BACKLESS CLASSICAL LITTLE BLACK
. . .For his own good.
Of course. He was in great danger of harming himself.
Brad!
I'm sick of hearing about that lame dog. I've got a lot going for me. I'm going places. I'm going to be someone. I'm gonna win my way into the lives and hearts of people even if I have to kill to do it. I'll make the pathetic little crumbs love me. I don't even know why I'm wasting my time here with you. I should be with my people...
BRAD!
Arrest that man! He's committed to our care.
I never signed the contract. He's not going anywhere.
BUT WITHOUT YOU AND ME, SIS THE WORLD'D FALL TO PIECES VENA CAVA WHO'S THE RAVER?
OUR RAVING SAVIOUR THAT'S YOU!!
I NEED SOME
YOUNG BLOOD
I NEED SOME
YOUNG BLOOD
I NEED IT NOW I NEED SOME
YOUNG BLOOD
I NEED SOME
YOUNG BLOOD
Hey! What are you trying to do? Get yourself committed?
I'm sorry, Officer.
Vance! Vance Parker.
Janet. Janet Majors. It's just that Brad...my husband...is not... very well and... I don't want to miss the next episode of Dentonvale.
Dentonvale...say, that's for... I'm sorry to hear that, Janet. Look I'm going to let you through, but keep it to yourself, otherwise...
Thanks Officer Park...Vance.
Don't worry, Janet. Brad'll probably get just what he needs.
Oh my poor baby.
Oh. Mom. It's Brad.
I know.
They call it a new look at an old favourite I copied it from the 'Window on the World' show. The Far East meets the MidWest!
It's...
Just what the Doctor ordered. I know. Come on in, my favourite show's just started.
What show?
Poor Brad.
Thank God he was born an orphan. It would have killed his parents.
You shouldn't have said that.
Why?
Your father doesn't like Mexicans.
I've just come to tell you how fabulous I am.
Janet! Where's that lovely dress I made you?
Oh, Mac ran up this little crowdpleaser.
You're practically naked!
I can't wear anything under it. That would spoil the line.
Could I do that later?
Of course.
But they only think they're happy.
That doesn't make sense.
I won't be a party to this. I want to see Brad.
The question is, does Brad want to see you? Quite frankly, he hates you.
What do you mean?
It's only one night, Janet. Let's not forget who we're doing this for?
Who?
Brad! Oh, Brad.
He's a lame dog, remember? But even he wouldn't want to see you like this.
Mr. Flavors  may I have a moment of your time?
Sure thing.
We've heard rumors that you're going to unveil more than just a new series tonight. Is this true?
Absolutely correct.
Could you tell us a little about it?
Let's just say that I'm putting sanity back on the national menu.
And how does *'local girl'* Janet Majors fit into the scheme of things?
YOU'LL FIND A RAMBLING ROSE AND A PICKET FENCE
TENDERNESS AND INNOCENCE IN DENTON`
Mental instability?
He was adopted you know.
I'd forgotten.
Well I hadn't. I was worried about inherited craziness when they married. I said to Janet 'What do we know of his parents?'
What are you talking about? Danny Slepstrini is a chip off the old block. I played 18 holes of golf with his father just last week. And Hank says Danny's moved to New York. To better himself.
He moved all right! When they found him with fifteen other naked men at the back of Wilson's Bakery.
Oh, Harry. What are we going to do?
Well...maybe I could wear my black leather brogues?
Too flashy...they'll clash with the new outfits.
LIKE A VIRGIN WITH AN' URGIN' IN A SURGERY I'LL BE SWINGING  I'LL BE BRINGING OUT THE NURSE IN ME
THE ART WILL START WHEN I PLAY MY PART AS THE HEALER WHO WILL STEAL YOUR HEART
SOME PEOPLE DO IT FOR FOR EACH OTHER
SOME PEOPLE DO IT FOR FOR THEIR LOVERS
SOME PEOPLE DO IT FOR FOR IMPROVEMENT
SOME PEOPLE DO IT FOR MOVEMENT
SOME PEOPLE DO IT FOR FOR ENJOYMENT
SOME PEOPLE DO IT FOR FOR EMPLOYMENT
I'VE TOOK AS MUCH OF YOU AS ANY MAN CAN YOU'VE LOST YOUR HEART
YOU'VE LOST YOUR CAUSE
YOU LOST YOUR BABY WHEN YOU LOST YOUR BALLS YOU'VE LOST YOUR MIND, YOU'VE LOST YOUR GRIP SO SAY BYEBYE
AN' YOU'RE A WEEPER AND A WAILER ALWAYS TREADING THE TOES OF THE GREAT GENERALLY SPREADING YOUR WEIGHT YOU'RE A SPITEFUL, HATEFUL ASININE CREATURE A PUPIL WITH NO SCRUPLES WHO KNEW BETTER THAN THE TEACHER
I'VE TOOK AS MUCH OF YOU AS ANY MAN CAN
YOU'VE LOST YOUR HEART
YOU'VE LOST YOUR CAUSE
YOU LOST YOUR BABY WHEN YOU LOST YOUR BALLS YOU'VE LOST YOUR MIND, YOU'VE LOST YOUR GRIP SO SAY BYEBYE
That's us.
I don't want to get up there.
We've got to, Brad, everyone's watching.
I'm not going, Janet.
What are you trying to do? Make Bert look like a fool? He's made all the arrangements.
But I don't need treadment.
I'M LOOKING FOR LOVE
I'M LOOKING FOR TRADE
SOME PEOPLE DO IT FOR COMPASSION
SOME PEOPLE DO IT FOR THE FASHION
SOME PEOPLE DO IT TO BE FUNNY
SOME PEOPLE DO IT FOR THE MONEY
Oh. Ah, I'm not calling at an inconvenient moment am I?
Not at all. You have your life. And I have mine.
Yeah, well. Here, Betty. I just came to give you this.
I'll leave you young things to it.
Shove it, Ralph!
You too, Betty!
Oh, Oliver. What are we going to do?
No! I don't know what Janet's next move will be...but you can be sure of one thing...it all starts here!
In a way...
I detect a note of reticence. Are you, perhaps, one of those amongst us who feel this emotive form of presentation is overly manipulative?
Well, Betty, there are many ways that the spider may catch the fly...
Thank you so much, Judge Wright, for another wonderful interview.
Judge Wright? Now, Betty? First name terms, surely!
Oh, Oliver, you're so tolerant. Time for a coffee before you rush off?
Delighted, Betty  That is if you don't mind being seen with an older man.
Why, Oliver, since Ralph and I separated maturity is something I look for in a man.
A free thinker.
Everything's free there.
Macy Struthers  God I must have been blind  still, the weaker the man, the dumber the blonde.
Isn't that Brad and Janet Majors sitting down front? What an ideal couple.
McKinley?...McKinley?
Bert brought them over from Europe. They had a very popular series together. It's still rerun in a lot of countries. You must have seen them in 'Dentonvale?'
Conspiracy? That sounds a little farfetched.
It's happened before. Remember Lieutenant Orpheus? He disappeared into that Underworld series and never came back.
Sounds like my husband. He never came back either. At least not after Flavors gave him a commercial break.
Ah yes. Farley Flavors. You know, I find it...
Conspiracy is right. The Denton Dossier is...
...closed?
I bet that Macy Struthers had a hand in this. We'll probably be replaced by an hour of fashion tips!
Now Betty, don't overreact.
Overreact! You're the one with theories about conspirac... Oliver?
Yes, Betty.
Are you spoken for this evening?
Clever of you to find this spot, Betty.
It pays to know your way around, Oliver.
A 'stately pleasure home' indeed.
Oh I adore Coleridge Taylor. As a matter of fact...
Look. Look at that. Bert Schnick can see. Why...he's...dancing.
Yes. Macabre, isn't it. The blind leading the blind.
Did you /hear/ that, Oliver.
Yes, Betty. But the false promise of a new dawn is usually followed by a most bloody sunset.
Care to indulge?
Indulge?
In a little masquerade?
Betty, it's imperative we get Janet out of Flavors' fast fingers and Brad out of that hellhole before they both disappear forever. If only I could place that name  McKinley?
He was a President.
President? Past Presidents! Betty, this is beginning to add up.
Really. What'll I pin this on?
Faith, Betty. But make sure it's your own.
SOME PEOPLE DO IT FOR ENSLAVEMENT
SOME PEOPLE DO IT ON THE PAVEMENT
Of course, Mrs. Majors  Janet  But I'm puzzled. If she was so keen on getting him in here, why wouldn't she sign the contract?
No it wasn't Janet  exactly  It was, in fact, your new sponsor.
SPONSOR!!!
Dentonvale has been sold.
SOLD??!!
With Fast Food Farley at the helm it'll be TV dinners from now on.
Farley is already a TV winner as we shall see. Dentonvile will run forever now that his interest has embraced mental hygiene.
We're the experts.
Who trusts experts?
Out of self comes selflessness.
Show yourself. The real you. The secret you.
Dear old Bert's settled everything.
Jah  you endorse his product  He endorses your research.
How did you come by this scenario?
I am in Farley's employ  and... ...we're discussing a network deal.
Why Janet?
Everyone loves the girl next door, particularly Farley.
So it seems.
In my time they used to call me the Merlin of Berlin.
They probably meant Irving and wanted you to swing.
Introduce yourselves.
I'm Janet Majors and this is my husband Brad.
We've been hearing some bad things about you, Brad.
He needs help.
I know, I know, it's just...
Looks like 'Rest Home' for this marriage.
Do you watch 'Dentonvale,' Janet?
I've caught it once or twice.
Of course! D.T.V.'s most popular Hospital series featuring those perennial favorites, Cosmo and Nation McKinley. Neurospecialists par excellence ...if you'll pardon my French. I recommend you send Brad to them for treatment!
I know he's boring but... Neurospecialists! That sounds pretty drastic.
It's no use pussyfooting around, Janet  we have to cut quick and deep.
Is it because I'm becoming too popular?
On the contrary. He wants to see your ratings soar. He needs a woman of exceptional desirability.
Right! An early start with Janet's debut on 'Good Morning Denton.' By the time we unveil Farley's 'Faith Factory' we will have earned our beauty sleep.
Can I just 'peep in' on Brad before I go home?
Home?
When do I get to see Brad?
After breakfast. You're sounding tense, Janet. Maybe I could give you a little massage?
But...how?
WELL FIRST YOU GO RIP RIP RIP THEN YOU GO SNIP SNIP SNIP THEN YOU WHIP IN A ZIP ZIP ZIP AN' YOU SPLIT IT UP TO THE HIP HIP HIP AN' AS YOU STRIP STRIP STRIP YOU QUIVER AND SHIVER FOR THAT SOFT CARESS AS YOU SLIP SLIP SLIP...INTO THAT LITTLE BLACK DRESS
SINIFUL
LITTLE BLACK DRESS
About Brad's family?
As Janet's parents this should be really easy. Your last clue... Mental Instability. You have thirty seconds.
You got it!
I got it! I got it!!!
Congratulations! It's 'Happy Homes' for Harry and Emily Weiss of Denton.
Infantile regression.
You got it!
I got it! I got it!!!
You bet, Bert.
Good! I'm gonna be there.
Later, Brenda. Ah, Bert, could you spare a moment?
Of course.
How's Brad?
A wreck.
Check. The quacks are willing tools?
Fools!
I wouldn't mind doing Janet one or two favours.
Time to check with Flavors.
Sank you! Velcome! Sank you!
What's cookin', Bert?
I tell you what's cooking. She made the blind see and it was a gift! Who was it from? Let's hear an 'F" for...
They should be sent to the Danube before Dawn.
What?
Nothing. Just...memories!
BREAKING OUT
BREAKING OUT
BREAKING OUT
BREAKING OUT
BREAKING OUT
BREAKING OUT
NIGHT NIGHT
NIGHT NIGHT
IT'S TIME FOR BYEBYES IT'S BEEN A GREAT DAY THANKS A HEAP NOW IT'S TIME FOR EVERYONE TO GO TO SLEEP
GOT THE HOT FLUSH SYMPTOMS AND I'M FEELING FREAKY
YOUNG MALE INTERN, TALL AND HANDSOME
GOT MY HEM SO HIGH THEY'LL SAY I'M BEING CHEEKY
WITH LEGS LIKE MINE I'M REALLY MADE FOR DANCING
Not exactly the kind of lunch Hobbes would have laid on you, Rog, but it's all I got, and... ...all I got I share with you. Go ahead. Take all you want.
You touch my spleen, Rollo. And here all the time I was thinking  if I ever bothered to think about the good old days  well, at least there's Rollo. He's in VD and he's happy.
I'm still a VD man under the skin, Rog. You know me. I'm a downtoearth kinda guy, right?
Well, at least you still talk the same.
So who changes?
But you gave up your private practice. Suddenly you're into pure research and you... you're what, a parasitologist?
That was my father's idea... private practice. He wanted to set me up  I couldn't say no. But he's dead now. And me, I'm still a snoop, I gotta do research. Look at that beautiful stuff... ...lookit it!
I know. You're bored already. Transplants are yesterday's kishkas, right?
Did I say anything?
Look. You got men, you got parasites that live in, on, and around men. Now. Why not breed a parasite that does something useful? Eh? Why not breed a parasite capable of taking over the function of any one of a bunch of human organs? Why not, for example, a parasite living in the human abdominal cavity that plugs into the circulatory system and filters the blood like a kidney? If it takes a little blood for itself, so what? Be generous! You can afford it.
You put the bug into the body of a man with a diseased kidney, the bug attacks the bad kidney, dissolves it, it's assimilated by the body, and now you got a perfectly good parasite where you used to have a rotten kidney. I know what you're gonna say. You're gonna say it's crazy.
It's crazy.
Right. It's crazy. But here's the beauty part. Ready? Who cares?
I don't get it.
You know and I know that Hobbes was a lousy teacher, eh? Lousy. Dry, academic, afraid of women, lousy. But he was always a genius at one thing  getting grants. Could he get grants for crazy projects?
Rog, I gotta talk serious to you. Really. Listen. Ya listening? OK. I want you to come into this with me. To tell the honesttoGod truth, I'm lonely. All Hobbes ever did was run around getting money and phone me in the middle of the night. He wanted you in anyway. That's why we were gonna get together, the three of us. We would have enough to keep us going for at least five years, even with inflation.
Rollo, you know me. Once a GP, always a GP.
You want to help sick people for the rest of your life? God forbid I should talk you out of it.
You oughta be careful yourself. Might end up cutting your throat.
It was women did it to Hobbes. Couldn't handle them. That girl, that Annabelle  talk about crazy projects.
Who was she?
Aw, he met her when he was lecturing at some private girls' school. They caught him examining her little tits for breast cancer in the faculty lounge. She was twelve. Don't ask. It was craziness, believe me. They used to come here sometimes. Don't ask.
But you'll think about what I said about working together, huh?
OK. I'll think about it.
Yes?
That you, Rog?
Yes?
It's me, Rollo Linsky. Remember me?
Rollo! How'sa boy? I was just thinking about you.
Yeah, well, I'm flattered, but you won't find any real meat in them.
No? How come?
Listen, Rog. I knew Hobbes was funny, you know? I told you that. But I didn't really know just how funny he was. See... when he kicked off, they sent all the personal secret stuff they found to his mother  she's still alive but just barely  and she sent everything she thought was medical to me here at the lab. I'm Hobbes's partner, right? Anyway, I've been going through his papers, and what they add up to is this: Hobbes was shafting us all, me, the university, the foundations and the councils, the private labs, everybody. We never really knew what it was we were working on. Hobbes gave us each a few crumbs, but he was the only one who knew what the whole loaf would look like.
OK, I bite. What does it look like?
It looks like  and I quote  'a disease to save man from his mind.'
I don't get it.
Lemme clarify for you.
He didn't make it.
Huh?
Maybe Hobbes didn't know it, but Annabelle was a pretty popular girl around Starliner Towers. I've got three men here, maybe four, who're hosting large, freemoving, apparently pathogenic, abdominal growths that nobody I've tried can identify. You were next on my list.
I'd kinda like to come over there and have a look at one of these guys.
I've got a date with one of them at ten. Can you make it?
Yeah. Ah, I don't want to panic you or anything, but, I mean, the way Hobbes designed them, they're supposed to get out of hand real quick, so you don't have much time to think about what's happening to you. Once they decide to start pumping all those dynamite juices into the old blood stream... I dunno. But if you see some people doing kind of compulsive, maybe even bizarre sexual things...
Yeah? What do I do then?
I dunno. Try tranquilizers. Once you can get at them, there's a lotta stuff you can use. I'll bring a bagful. It's just the standard tropical kit. But the trick is to get at them.
OK. It's apartment 1009, South Tower, Starliner Towers. May as well go there directly.
OK, Rog. See you at ten.
Want me to breathe deeply?
Just breathe normally.
Good shape for an old man, eh?
Mr. Parkins, what makes you think you caught these lumps of yours from a young lady?
She had a couple just like them. Right here near her belly button. You could push 'em around. I thought they were kinda sexy, myself.
Didn't she ever have these lumps looked at by a doctor?
Didn't seem worried about them.
Was this girl from Starliner Towers?
Yep. She lived in 1208. But we usually went to my place. Bigger liquor cabinet, bigger bed. She was gone when I got back from my last Florida trip. Too bad. Had a beautiful tan. Must have gone home to mother.
Was her name Annabelle Horsefield?
That's the one.
I'm going to send you to the hospital to have a few Xrays taken. I want to find out exactly what you're hiding in there, OK? Give them this. The address is right there under Radiology.
Gonna cut me open?
Well, let's wait for the Xrays.
Used to know a doctor who said he got to know his patients better than their wives did. Cutting a man open sure does expose more of him than pulling down his pants, gotta admit that.
What happened?
Please pardon me. I am Niccolo Spergazzi. I am a resident here. I don't know... we were walking in the hallway and... Cabiria... my wife... she was attacked by this thing... here, on her arm.
Where is this thing that attacked your wife?
I hit it. I hit it with my cane. Then I carry it on the cane and I throw it down to the incinerator, down to the garbage.
Go back to their apartment with them and treat her for seconddegree burns. It'll have to do for now. What's your number? The number of your apartment?
We live in 703.
OK. I'll meet you back there. Don't leave until I get there. Lock the door and don't open it except for me. OK?
Yes? Who is there?
It's Dr. St. Luc, Mr Spergazzi. Let me speak to the nurse, please.
Oh, but the nurse, she went away. I think she must go to look for you.
Can I call you at the office?
What do you want to call me at the office for?
I don't know. I just thought I might want to call you. I don't know.
I won't be at the office except to sign in. I've got a lot of claims to check out. All over the place. Garages and more garages. I'll come home right after work.
You say something?
Nope. Damned thing wriggled out of my hands. That's all.
Do you want to make love? You're absolutely beautiful, those eyes, that expression. You're absolutely the most sexy thing alive. Do you want to make love?
Nick, you're so strange...
You will make love to me, won't you, Janine? Won't you make love to me? You start it. Won't you? I think I've forgotten how to start.
Oh, Nick, Nick... I can't take this.
Please, Janine. Please, pleasepleaseplease, Janine Janine JanineJanineJanine...
Make love to me, make love to me, love, love to me...
I want to be able to see us, Nick. I... I'm going to go into the bathroom now and put in my contacts, OK? Is that OK? I want to be able to see us when we make love, OK?
Mrs. Ementhal's ready and waiting, Doctor.
Mm? OK. Be with you in a sec.
OK, Roger. Here's the stuff you wanted. Files on Horsefield, Tudor, Swinburne, and Velakofsky. Papers published by Hobbes, Linsky, and Lefebvre in a couple of issues of the Bulletin of the Canadian Medical Association and also the Journal of the American Medical Association. And, as an added extra, a couple of odds and ends from the files I helped compile before your time here, Doctor. I thought they might interest you.
That's great, Forsythe, great. Thanks.
Do I get a kiss?
Kiss, kiss?
Uh, OK. Sure.
Another kiss?
C'mon, Forsythe. Are there any more on the list?
No. Dotty's the last.
Roger? If you're going to be staying here anyway, why don't you come up to my place for a late supper?
Meeting Rollo at Tudor's. Might take a while.
Doesn't matter to me how late it is. I can keep it warm.
Anything wrong?
No. I don't think so.
Well? Supper at my place?
OK. But late.
Great! Go back to your files. Bye.
Forsythe, Forsythe! What's wrong? What's happened?
A man... I think I recognized him... a man who lives here. He just... ...he just attacked me for no reason at all. I just opened the door... I was making supper for you, and he grabbed me, he tried to kiss me...
Where is he now? Do you know?
I think I... I think I killed him. I stabbed him with something and he fell.
Will you be OK now? I've got to go to your place to see if he's still there. I've got to see if it's... if it's what we both think it is.
Oh, no! You're not leaving me here all alone. I'm going with you.
But where are you going?
Down to the incinerator.
And that was her. Annabelle Horse... field.
Far as I know, yeah, that was her.
Is that the man who called you up here?
Yeah, that's Dr. St. Luc. He's the head of our little medical clinic here.
Medical clinic?
Yeah. This is an island, you know? Takes too long to get into the city. We gotta have everything right here or somebody complains.
Well, let's go talk to your doctor.
Dr. St. Luc? DetectiveSergeant Heller. I'd like to ask you a few questions.
Sure.
You're the one who found the bodies?
Yes.
Did you touch anything? Move anything before we got here?
No, nothing.
You knew these people?
I knew the man, Emil Hobbes, a doctor and a professor at university. I saw the girl around the building but I didn't know her. She never came to the clinic.
So you just came up to visit this Hobbes and you found them like that?
Oh, no. I haven't seen Dr. Hobbes since I was in medical school. He taught me... he was my prof in urology and... I think he conducted a few seminars in psychopharmacology. That was it. I had no idea he'd ever set foot in Starliner Towers until today.
I see. Then what brought you up here?
It was very strange. He called me at six this morning. Hobbes called me. I thought I was dreaming. I haven't heard that voice for so long. He told me who it was, then he said something like, 'Meet me at apartment 1208 at noon. I want you to go out for lunch with me. It's time you furthered your education.' Then he laughed and hung up. I went back to sleep. He called me again at eight to remind me to come.
How did he sound this time? Was he nervous? Depressed?
He sounded fine.
C'mon, let's smoke one of the cigarettes right now. Your father'll never miss it.
I can't, dummy. He'll see that the pack's been opened. You're such a dumbhead.
OK, then. I'm gonna go back to the store and buy my own pack and smoke 'em all myself.
Buy 'em with what, dumbhead?
With some milk jugs I just happened to pick up on the way home.
Jesus!
Let's get outta here before somebody hears us!
...probably nothing at all. It's probably just a bunch of, I don't know, fatty cysts. You can have them removed in a doctor's office. Has Nick seen a doctor?
He hates doctors. Doctors and lawyers. He never goes to doctors.
Well, look. How's this? You go on down to the clinic and tell that nice Dr. St. Luc... ...you tell him that Nick's ill, he's got these lumps, and he can't get out of bed. Tell him to come when you're sure Nick'll be home. And don't tell Nick anything. Let the two of them fight it out.
He'll be really mad.
So? You'll find out what's wrong and then you'll be able to relax a little bit. Let him be the uptight one for a change.
Hi.
Hi. Want a drink?
No thanks. Just wanted to tell you that Dr. St. Luc is coming up to see Nick at ten or so.
Was he nice to you?
Oh, you feel very good, Betts. You have such a cosy body. I'm jealous, I'm so skinny.
Make love to me, 'Nine? I want you to make love to me. Please, please make love to me.
Mr. Millaney?
Yeah.
Mr. Forman would like to see you in his office.
Okay, in a minute, I'm on with a client.
He said immediately.
All right, jesus.
IBM.
Brian Kirkland, please.
May I ask who's calling?
John Millaney.
One moment.
Anyway, I've always said, the work is the thing. I can be happy without a marriage, but take away my work, that's different. And if Ann can't handle that, that's her problem, like we re all alone in this world, you know what I'm saying? I mean, fuck. Jesus, what's takin' this guy?
Mr. Millaney?
Yes?
Mr. Kirkland has asked me to inform you that he has obtained legal representation elsewhere, and that if you have a message for him to leave it with me.
Everybody has a past.
What do you think the Greeks would make of that outfit you're wearing?
A bonfire, probably.
Yeah, it's not bad. Usually Ann has some serious salt action going. I keep telling her, you can always add more if you want, but you can't take it out.
You have family here also?
I'm sorry. Am I prying again?
You were prying before?
Yes, this afternoon. I was grilling Ann about your marriage this afternoon.
Really. How'd it go?
She held up very well.
I wish I didn't have to live someplace.
What do you mean?
Get rid of the car when you get your apartment, then you'll still have one key.
I like having the car, the car is important.
Especially if you want to leave someplace in a hurry.
Or go someplace in a hurry.
Hi, John.
Where are the tapes, Graham?
What tapes?
You know which tapes! Where are they?
John, as a lawyer, you should know that those tapes are private property.
So is my wife, asshole!!
She's not property, John, she's a person. Were you just going to keep right on lying to her?
What the hell do you think? I love Ann. You think I'm going to tell her about Cynthia and hurt her feelings like that?
God, you need help.
I need help? Whose sitting by himself in a room choking his chauncey to a bunch of videotapes, Graham? Not me, buddy. You're the fucking nut. Now show me those tapes.
No.
I'm not kidding, Graham, you'd better do what I say. Give me those tapes.
No.
Graham, I swear to Christ I'll kill your scrawny ass. Now give me those tapes.
No.
Give me your keys.
My keys?
Your keys, asshole!! Your two fucking keys!! Give them to me!!
I'm not going to give you my keys.
Have you ever wanted to make love to someone other than your husband?
Goddamit...
Answer him, goddammit!!
You're hesitating. I think that means you have.
Shut up!!!
Plenty of room for two people.
It'll just be me.
Student?
No. You said threefifty?
Plus first and last month deposit.
Will you lease monthtomonth?
Not for threefifty.
How about for five hundred?
I've got to get back to the office.
I only get one today? Gee, how exciting.
I can't let my lunch hour go on too long. I've already skipped one meeting.
Don't give me this passive/aggressive bullshit. If you want to leave, leave. My life doesn't stop when you walk out the door, you know what I'm saying?
I have a friend coming in from out of town, I'll probably be spending some time with him the next couple of days.
Meaning we'll have to cool it for awhile, right?
Right.
I wish you'd quit that bartending job.
Why?
I hate the thought of guys hitting on you all the time.
I can handle it. Besides, the money is good and some of the guys are cute. And you are in no position to be jealous.
Who said I was jealous?
I did.
I wish I could tell everybody that Ann's a lousy lay. Beautiful, popular, Ann Bishop Millaney.
Could be risky.
Well, maybe I could just start a rumor, then.
No, I mean doing it at my house.
Afraid of getting caught?
Maybe.
You should be. Can I meet this friend of yours?
Cynthia, I don't think you want to, I mean, you should see the way he dresses. I really think he's in a bad way.
I'm intrigued.
You're intrigued?
Sure. Maybe he's the man I'm looking for. Then I won't have to fuck worried husbands all the time.
Hello.
Cynthia. John. Meet me at my house in exactly one hour.
You are scum. I'll be there.
John?
In here!!
Hello.
Cynthia. John.
Not today. I've got other plans.
Oh. Well, when, then?
How about inviting me over to dinner?
You know what I mean.
Yeah, I know what you mean.
John Millaney.
I want to see you.
When?
Right now.
Jesus, I don't know if I can get away. I've got a client waiting. I'd have to do some heavy duty juggling.
Then get those balls in the air and get your butt over here.
Hello.
Cynthia. John.
Well, this is timely. Your wife is here, would you like to speak to her?
She's there? What's she doing there?
I don't know. I'm not sure I can duplicate the level of intensity I had the other day.
Nothing wrong with trying.
I don't think my sister would agree.
Do you want me to stop calling?
Look, I'll call you, okay?
It's just so blatantly stupid, I have a hard time believing you did it.
What's so stupid about it?
That you... you don't even know the guy.
Well, you know him, he's a friend of yours, do you think he can be trusted?
Shit, after what you've told me, I don't know. I should've known, when he showed up dressed like some arty brat.
I like the way he dresses.
What if this tape gets into the wrong hands?
"The wrong hands"? We're not talking about military secrets, John. They're just tapes that he makes so he can sit around and get off.
Jesus Christ. And he doesn't have sex with any of them? They just talk?
Right.
Jesus. I could almost understand it if he was screwing these people, almost. Why doesn't he just buy some magazines or porno movies or something?
Doesn't work. He has to know the people, he has to be able to interact with them.
Interact, fine, but did you have to masturbate in front of him, for God's sake? I mean...
I felt like it, so what? Goddam, you and Ann make such a big deal out of it.
You told Ann about this?
Of course. She is my sister. I tell her almost everything.
I wish you hadn't done that.
Why not?
It's just something I'd prefer she didn't know about.
She's a grownup, she can handle it.
I just... Ann is very...
Hung up.
It just wasn't a smart thing to do. Did you sign any sort of paper, or did he have any contract with you saying he wouldn't broadcast these tapes?
No.
You realize you have no recourse legally? This stuff could show up anywhere.
It won't. I trust him.
You trust him.
Yeah, I do. A helluva lot more than I trust you.
What do you mean?
Exactly what I said. I'd trust him before I'd trust you. How much clearer can I be?
It hurts that you would say that to me.
Oh, please. Come on, John. You're fucking your wife's sister and you hardly been married a year. You're a liar. But at least I know you're a liar. It's the people that don't know, like Ann, that have to watch out.
By definition you're lying to Ann, too.
That's right. But I never took a vow in front of God and everybody to be "faithful" to my sister.
Look, are we going to do it or not?
Actually, no, I've changed my mind. I shouldn't have called.
Well, I'm here now. I'd like to do something...
How about straightening up the living room?
Come on, John. You should be happy, we've gone this far without Ann finding out, I'm making it real easy on you. Just walk out of here and I'll see you at your house for a family dinner sometime.
Did he put you up to this?
Who?
Graham.
No, he didn't put me up to this. Jesus, I don't need people to tell me what I should do. I've just been thinking about things, that's all.
I can't believe I let him stay in my house. Right under my nose. That deviant fucker was right under my nose and I didn't see him.
If he had been under your prick you'd have spotted him for sure.
God, you... you're mean.
I know. Will you please leave now?
Maybe I don't want to leave. Maybe I want to talk.
John, we have nothing to talk about.
I knew it, I knew it. Things are getting complicated.
No, John, things are getting real simple.
Who are you?
I'm Cynthia Bishop.
Do I know you?
I'm Ann Millaney's sister.
The extrovert.
She must have been in a good mood when she said that. She usually calls me loud.
She called you that, too. May I ask why you're here?
You want me to leave?
I just want to know why you're here.
Well, like I said, Ann is my sister. Sisters talk. You can imagine the rest.
No, I really can't. I find it healthy never to characterize people I don't know or conversations I haven't heard. I don't know what you and your sister discussed about me or anything else. Last time I saw Ann she left here very... confused, I would say. And upset.
She still is.
And are you here to berate me for making her that way?
Nope.
She didn't tell you why she was upset?
Nope.
She didn't give you my address?
Nope.
How did you find me?
I, uh, know a guy at the power company.
I don't understand. Why did you want to come here? I mean, I can't imagine Ann painted a very flattering portrait of me.
Well, I don't really listen to her when it comes to men. I mean, look at John, for crissake. Oh, you went to school with him didn't you? You're probably friends or something.
Nope. I think the man is a liar.
I think you're right. So come on, I came all the way over here to find out what got Ann so spooked, tell me what happened.
Spooked.
Oh, okay. I think I get it.
What do you get?
Well, they must be something sexual, because Ann gets freaked out by that shit. Are these tapes of you having sex with these girls or something?
Not exactly.
Well, either you are or you aren't. Which is it?
Why don't you let me tape you?
Doing what?
Talking.
About what?
Sex. Your sexual history, your sexual preferences.
What makes you think I'd discuss that with you?
Nothing.
You just want to ask me questions?
I just want to ask you questions.
And that's all?
That's all.
Is this how you get off or something? Taping women talking about their sexual experiences?
Yes.
Would anybody else see the tape?
Absolutely not. They are for my private use only.
How do we start?
I turn on the camera. You start talking.
And you ask questions, right?
Yes.
How long will it take?
That depends on you. One woman only used three minutes. Another filled up three two hour tapes.
Can I see some of the other tapes to get an idea of what 
No.
Do I sit or stand?
Whichever you prefer.
I'd rather sit. Are you ready?
Just a moment.
I am now recording. Tell me your name.
Cynthia Patrice Bishop.
Describe for me your first sexual experience.
My first sexual experience or the first time I had intercourse?
Your first sexual experience.
I was... eight years old. Michael Green, who was also eight, asked if he could watch me take a pee. I said he could if I could watch him take one, too. He said okay, and then we went into the woods behind our house. I got this feeling he was chickening out because he kept saying, "Ladies first!" So I pulled down my underpants and urinated, and he ran away before I even finished.
Was it ever a topic of conversation between the two of you afterward?
No. He kind of avoided me for the rest of the summer, and then his family moved away. To Cleveland, actually.
How unfortunate. So when did you finally get to see a penis?
When I was fourteen.
Live, or in a photograph or film of some sort?
Very much live.
What did you think? Did it look like you expected?
Not really. I didn't picture it with veins or ridges or anything, I thought it would be smooth, like a test tube.
Were you disappointed?
No. If anything, after I looked at it awhile, it got more interesting. It had character, you know?
What about when you touched it? What did you expect it to feel like, and then what did it really feel like?
It was warmer than I thought it would be, and the skin was softer than it looked. It's weird. Thinking about it now, the organ itself seemed like a separate thing, a separate entity to me. I mean, after he pulled it out and I could look at it and touch it, I completely forgot that there was a guy attached to it. I remember literally being startled when the guy spoke to me.
What did he say?
He said that my hand felt good.
Then what happened?
Then I started moving my hand, and then he stopped talking.
Would you like me to take my pants off?
If you wish. You're not wearing any underwear.
Do you like the way I look?
Yes.
Do you think I'm pretty?
Yes.
Prettier than Ann?
Different.
John doesn't have sex with Ann anymore.
Is that what he tells you?
He doesn't have to tell me.
Hello.
Hi.
Look, I'm just going to come right out and tell you why I'm here, okay?
Okay.
I'd like to make another tape.
No.
No? Not even one more?
I never do more than one. I'm sorry.
I can't talk you into it?
No. You'll have to get somebody else.
Now who the hell is going to do that for me?
I'm sure a substantial number of men in this town would volunteer.
But I want you to do it, I want somebody who will ask the right questions and everything, somebody I can play to and feel safe because you can't do anything.
Ouch. Okay, I deserved that. Cynthia, don't you understand? After the first time it's just not spontaneous. There's no edge anymore. Look at the tapes, there is only one date on each label. I have never taped anyone twice.
So make an exception.
No.
How about if you record over the one we already made? You could have the same date and not use another tape. Who would know?
I would.
Well, what the hell am I supposed to do?
Cynthia, I don't know.
I can't believe you're doing this after I let you tape me.
I'm sorry. I can't do it.
Goddamit, give me my tape, then.
No.
Did he ask me to take my clothes off? No, he didn't.
Did you take your clothes off?
No, I touched me.
Wait a minute. Do you mean... don't tell me you... in front of him.
I wish you'd get an answering machine.
There's a phone here.
It was busy.
Well, why would she want a sun dress? She's got spots on her shoulders and varicose veins.
So will you, someday.
I don't know. He went to school here, then he was in New York for awhile, then Philadelphia, and then just kind of travelling around.
Must be nice. So, what's he like, is he like John?
No, not at all. Actually, I don't think John likes him much anymore. He said he thought Graham had gotten strange.
Is he? Strange, I mean?
Not really. Maybe if I just saw him on the street I'd have said that, but after talking to him... he's just kind of... I don't know, unusual.
Uhhuh. So what's he look like?
Why?
I just want to know what he looks like, is all.
Why, so you can go after him?
Jesus, Ann, get a life. I just asked what he looked like.
Besides, even if I decided to fuck his brains out, what business is that of yours?
Do you have to say that?
What?
You know what. You say it just to irritate me.
I say it because it's descriptive.
Well, he doesn't strike me as the kind of person that would go in for that sort of thing, anyway.
Ann, you always underestimate me.
Well, I wonder why.
I think you're afraid to put the two of us in the same room together. I think you're afraid he'll be undeniably drawn to me.
Oh, for God's sake. Really, Cynthia, really, I don't think he's your type.
"My type"? What is this bullshit? How would you know what "my type" is?
I have a pretty good idea.
Ann, you don't have a clue. Look, I don't even know why we're discussing this, I'll just call him myself.
He doesn't have a phone.
Well, I'll call him when he does.
But he won't.
What are you talking about?
He's not getting a phone, he doesn't like talking on the phone.
Oh, please. Okay, so give me the Zen master's address, I'll think of a reason to stop by.
Let me talk to him first.
Why? Just give me the address, you won't even have to be involved.
I don't feel right just giving you the address so that you can go over there and...
And what?
And... do whatever it is you do.
Lose something?
That goddam diamond stud earring that cost me a fucking fortune.
Are you getting Mom something for her birthday?
I don't know, I'll get her a card or something.
A card? For her fiftieth birthday?
What's wrong with that?
Don't you think she deserves a little more than a card? I mean, the woman gave birth to you. It's her fiftieth birthday 
Will you stop? Jesus.
I just thought it might 
Okay, Ann, okay. How about this: you buy her something nice, and I'll pay for half. All right?
Fine.
Good. Now, if you'll pardon me, I have to go to work.
I was thinking maybe I shouldn't be in therapy anymore.
I don't... he doesn't want you to come over.
What do you mean he doesn't want me to come over? Did you tell him about me?
No, I didn't.
Why not?
Because I never got around to it.
Well, why?
Because. Cynthia, look, John was right. Graham is strange. Very strange. You don't want to get involved with him.
What the hell happened over there? Did he make a pass at you?
No!
Then what's the story, what's this "strange" bullshit all of a sudden? Is he drowning puppies, or what?
No, it's nothing like that.
Well, what? Is he dangerous?
No, he's not dangerous. Not physically.
Well, what, then?
I don't want to talk about it.
Then why'd you call me?
I don't know.
He just asked me questions.
What kinds of questions?
Questions about sex.
Well, like what did he ask, exactly?
Well, like, I don't want to tell you, exactly.
Oh, so you'll let a total stranger record your sexual life on tape, but you won't tell your own sister?
Apparently.
Did he ask you to take your clothes off?
Yes, I did.
Cynthia!
What!?
Why did you do that?
Because I wanted to.
But why did you want to?
I wanted him to see me.
Cynthia, who knows where that tape may end up? He could be... bouncing it off some satellite or something. Some horny old men in South America or something could be watching it.
He wouldn't do that.
You don't know that for sure.
Well, it's too late now, isn't it?
Did he touch you?
No, but I did.
You touched him?
In front of him, Ann, yes.
You are in trouble.
Listen to you!! You sound like Mom. What are you talking about?
I can't believe you did that!!
Why?
I mean, I couldn't do that in front of John, even.
You couldn't do it, period.
You know what I mean, you don't even know him!
I feel like I do.
That doesn't mean you do. You can't possibly trust him, he's... perverted.
He's harmless. He just sits around and looks at these tapes. What's the big deal?
So he's got this catalogue of women touching themselves? That doesn't make you feel weird?
No. I don't think they all did what I did.
You are in serious trouble.
Ann, I don't understand why this freaks you out so much. You didn't do it, I did, and if it doesn't bother me, why should it bother you?
I don't want to discuss it.
Then why do you keep asking about it?
Here it is.
What is it?
It's a sun dress.
It looks like a tablecloth.
It does not.
I was just trying to 
Hold on.
So what's my share of the dress?
Thirtytwo dollars.
Thank you.
Well. I can't stay.
Do you have my work number?
No.
I get real busy between two and four.
Okay.
Bye.
Bye.
Yes, I remember. What do you do when these moods overtake you?
Nothing. I mean, nothing. I try not to do anything that will produce garbage, so obviously we're talking about eating and basic stuff like that. Did you know that the average person produces three pounds of garbage a day?
No, I didn't.
Don't you think that's a lot of garbage? I'd really like to know where it's all going to go.
Do you have any idea what triggered this concern?
Well, this weekend John was taking out the garbage, and he kept spilling things out of the container, and I started imagining a container that grew garbage, like it just kept filling up and overflowing all by itself, and how could you stop that if it started happening?
Ann, do you see a pattern here?
What do you mean?
Well, last week we talked about your obsession with the families of airline fatalities, and now we're talking about your concern over the garbage problem.
Yeah, so?
If you think about it, I think you'll see that the object of your obsession is invariably something negative that you couldn't possibly have any control over.
Well, do you think many people run around thinking about how happy they feel and how great things are? I mean, maybe they do, but I doubt those people are in therapy. Besides, being happy isn't all that great. My figure is always at its best when I'm depressed. The last time I was really happy I put on twentyfive pounds. I thought John was going to have a stroke.
Are you afraid of his reaction? Of his finding you silly for thinking of such things?
No. I don't know. I haven't told him about the garbage thing because I'm pissed off at him right now. He's letting some old college buddy stay at our house for a couple of days, and he didn't even ask me about it. I mean, I would've said yes, I just wish he would've asked.
What upsets you about that?
I guess I'm upset because I can't really justify being upset, I mean, it's his house, really, he pays the mortgage.
But he asked you to quit your job, and you do have housework.
Yeah, I know.
This unexpected visit notwithstanding, how are things with John?
Fine, I guess. Except right now I'm going through this where I don't want him to touch me.
When did you begin having this feeling?
About a week ago. I don't know what brought it on, I just started feeling like I didn't want him to touch me.
Prior to this feeling, were you comfortable having physical contact with him?
Oh, yeah. But see, I've never really been into sex that much, I mean, I like it and everything, it just does't freak me out, I wouldn't miss it, you know? But anyway, lately we haven't been doing anything at all. Like I said, it's not that I miss it, but I'm curious the way things kind of slacked off all of a sudden.
Perhaps he senses your hesitance at being touched.
But see, he stopped before I got that feeling, that's why it seems weird to me. I mean, I'm sure he wishes I would initiate things once in awhile, and I would except it never occurs to me, I'm always thinking about something else and then the few times that I have felt like starting something I was by myself.
Did you do anything?
What do you mean?
Did you masturbate?
God, no.
I take it you've never masturbated?
Well, I kind of tried once. It just seemed stupid, I kept seeing myself lying there and it seemed stupid, and kind of, uh, I don't know, and then I was wondering if my dead grandfather could see me doing this, and it just seemed like a dumb thing to be doing when we don't know what to do with all that garbage, you know?
So it was recently that you tried this.
Well, kind of recently, I guess. But not too recently.
Well, I don't know. The week started off okay, but then I was outside watering the plants, and I started feeling dizzy from the heat and that got me thinking about the Greenhouse Effect, so I went inside and turned on the airconditioner full blast, and that made me feel a little better until I started thinking about radon leakage coming up through the floor, and 
Radon leakage?
Yes, it's this radioactive gas in the ground, and houses kind of act like magnets to pull it up, and  you've never heard of this?
No, I haven't.
Well, the cumulative effect is not good, let me tell you. I knew I shouldn't have watered those plants.
Did you confront John about the visitor?
What visitor?
The friend of John's that was staying at your house.
Oh, Graham. No, I didn't talk to him about that. Actually, that turned out to be pretty interesting. I expected Graham to be this... well, like John, you know? I mean, he said they had gone to school together, so I was expecting lots of stories about getting drunk and secret handshakes and stuff. But he turned out to be this... this kind of character, I mean, he's kind of arty but okay, you know?
Is he still at your house?
No, he left last week.
Did you find him attractive?
What do you mean, like physically?
Let me rephrase. Were you attracted to him?
I guess, but not because of the way he looked or anything. He's just so different, somebody new to have a conversation with. I'm just tired of talking to other couples about whether or not they're going to buy the station wagon, you know? It's just boring. I don't know, he was just different. And he's really on about truth a lot, being honest, and I like that, I felt comfortable around him. After he left I had a dream that he signed a lease to rent our guest room.
What brought this on?
I've been thinking about it for awhile, and then I was talking to somebody who kind of put things in perspective for me.
I thought that's what I did. Who was it that you talked to?
That guy Graham I told you about. He said taking advice from someone you don't know intimately was... well, he said a lot of stuff.
Ann, in life one has to be aware of hidden agendas. Did it occur to you that Graham may have his own reasons for not wanting you to be in therapy?
What do you mean? I don't understand.
It's possible that Graham has hidden motives for disliking therapy and/or therapists. Perhaps he has problems of his own that he is unwilling to deal with, and he would like to see other people, you for instance, wallow in their situation just as he does. Do you think that's possible?
I guess.
You understand that you are free to leave therapy at any time?
Yes.
That you are under no obligation to me?
Yes.
Do you want to leave therapy?
Not really.
Do you feel there is more progress to be made?
Yes.
I'm glad you feel that way, because I feel that way, too.
But you don't have hidden motives for feeling that way, right?
I hate my sister.
Why?
Because all she thinks about are these guys she's after and I just hate her she's such a little slut I thought that in high school and I think that now. Why do people have to be so obsessed with sex all what's the big damn deal? I mean, it's okay and everything, but I don't understand when people let it control them, control their lives, why do they do that?
There are many things that can exert control over one's life, good and bad. Religion, greed, philanthropy, drugs.
I know, but this... I just feel like everybody I know right now is obsessed with sex.
That's the first thing that ran through my mind when I saw you. I thought this is not the same man that rode the unicycle naked through the homecoming parade.
You did that?
Oh, we get along okay. She's just very... she's an extrovert. I think she's loud. She probably wouldn't agree. Definitely wouldn't agree.
Are you going to see Elizabeth while you're here?
Graham and I were talking about apartments and I told him to check the Garden District, there are some nice little places there, garage apartments and stuff.
Stay away from the Garden District. Serious crime. I don't know what kind of place you're looking for, but there are a lot of studiotype apartments available elsewhere.
John?
Mmmmm...
I called you Tuesday at 3:30 and they said you weren't in. Do you remember where you were?
Tuesday. I had a late lunch.
Did you see a message to call me when you got back in?
Yes. I just got busy.
That's interesting, because I didn't leave a message.
Then maybe I saw an old message. There are a lot of them on my desk, you know.
Who'd you have lunch with?
I ate by myself.
Something wrong?
Are you having an affair?
Jesus Christ, where'd that come from? I have a late lunch by myself and now I'm fucking somebody?
Well, are you?
No, I'm not. Frankly, I'm offended at the accusation.
If I'm right, I want to know. I don't want you to lie. I'd be very upset, but not as upset as if I'd found out you'd been lying.
There's nothing to know, Ann.
I can't tell you how upset I would be if you were lying.
Ann, you are completely paranoid. Not ten minutes ago I wanted to make love for the first time in weeks, and you act like I'm dipped in shit. You know, I think there are a lot of women that would be glad to have a young, straight male making a pretty good living beside them in bed with a hard on.
My sister, for one. Is that who it is?
For God's sake, Ann, I am not fucking your sister. I don't find her that attractive, for one.
Is that supposed to comfort me?
I was just saying, you know? I didn't get paranoid when you didn't want to make love. I could have easily assumed that you didn't want to because you were having an affair.
But I'm not.
I'm not either!!
Why don't I believe you?
Look, this conversation is utterly ridiculous. Maybe when you have some evidence, we should talk, but don't give me conjecture and intuition.
Always the lawyer.
Goddam right. I mean, can you imagine: "Your honor, I'm positive this man is guilty. I can't place him at the scene or establish a motive, but I have this really strong feeling."
You've made your point.
I'm sorry. It's just... I'm under a lot of pressure with this Kirkland thing, it's my first big case as junior partner, and I work all day, I come home, I look forward to seeing you, and... it hurts that you accuse me like that.
I'm sorry, too. I... I get these ideas in my head, you know, and I have nothing to do all day but sit around and concoct these intricate scenarios. And then I want to believe it so I don't think I've wasted the whole day. Last week I was convinced you were having an affair with Cynthia, I don't know why.
I don't, either. I mean, Cynthia, of all people. She's so...
Loud.
Yeah. Jeez, give me some credit.
I didn't say it was rational, I just said I was convinced.
Isn't therapy helping at all?
I don't know. Sometimes I feel stupid babbling about my little problems while children are starving in the world.
Quitting your therapy won't feed the children of Ethiopia.
I know.
Jesus Christ! What the hell happened? I came home and your car was gone, the door was open, I thought for sure you'd been abducted by some mad fucker, I was literally just calling the cops when you walked in. What happened?
I want out of this marriage.
What?
I want out of this marriage.
Why?
We'll call it uncontested or whatever. I just want out.
Where did you go when you left here?
I drove around. Then I went to talk with Graham.
Goddammit, goddammit!! That son of a bitch!! Well, at least I know you didn't fuck him.
No, but I wanted to. I really wanted to, partially just to piss you off.
You're leaving me for him, aren't you? Well, that makes a sad sort of sense. He can't, and you won't.
I'm not going to discuss this with you anymore. You're making no sense.
Answer me, godammit!! Did you make one of those tapes?
Yes!
Goddam right.
Yes.
Bastard...
He does.
You son of a bitch!!
Not very often.
I have thought about it, yes.
You bitch. I knew it.
God damn you!!
Yes.
Ann?
Yes?
Graham Dalton.
That was quick.
False alarm.
Oh. Well, please sit down.
We... don't usually let people smoke in the house. We have a patio if you 
Oh, no problem. It can wait.
Do you have other things?
Yes. Oh, you mean to bring in! No. Yes, I have some other things, no, I don't need to bring them in. This is all I need to stay here.
Oh.
Have you ever been on television?
Television?
Yes.
No. Why?
Curious.
Graham is an unusual name.
Yeah, I guess it is. My mother is a complete Anglophile, anything British makes her drool like a baby. She probably heard the name in some movie. She's a prisoner of public television now.
Oh, uhhuh.
Are you uncomfortable with my appearance?
No, I think you look... fine.
Oh. Well, maybe I'm uncomfortable with my appearance. I feel a little out of place in these surroundings.
Well...
I used to take great pleasure in that, being purposefully different, rubbing people's noses in it. Didn't you do that when you were younger?
No, not really.
Oh. Well, I did. I was in a band once, and the music was always secondary to just flat out offending as many people as possible.
You play an instrument?
No, I was in charge of kind of standing at the microphone and reciting these really depressing lyrics in a monotone. The whole thing was really... irrelevant. How do you like being married?
Oh, I like it. I like it very much.
What about it do you like? I'm not being critical, I'd really like to know.
Well... well, the clich about the security of it, that's really true. We own a house, and I really like that, you know? And I like that John was just made junior partner, so he has a steady job and he's not some...
...freelance. You know.
Yes. So you feel security, stability. Like things are going to last awhile.
Oh, definitely. I mean, just this past year has gone by like phew! I hardly even knew it passed.
Did you know that if you shut someone up in a room, and the only clock he has reference to runs two hours slow for every twentyfour, that his body will eventually adjust to that schedule? Simply because the mind honestly perceives that twentysix hours are twentyfour, the body follows. And then there are sections of time. Your life can be broken down into the sections of time that formed your personality . For instance, when I was twelve, I had an eleven minute conversation with my father that to this day defines our relationship. Now, I'm not saying that everything happened in that specific section of time, but the events of my childhood involving my father led up to, and then were crystallized in, that eleven minutes.
Oh, uhhuh.
Anyway, I think the mind is very flexible as far as time is concerned.
You mean like "time flies"?
Exactly. I would say the fact that you feel the first year of your marriage has gone by quickly means lots of things. Or could mean lots of things.
How long has it been since you've seen John?
Nine years.
Nine years?
Yes. I was surprised that he accepted when I asked if I could stay here until I found a place.
Why? Didn't you know him well?
I knew him very well. We were extremely close until I dropped out.
Why'd you drop out?
Oh, lots of reasons, most of them boring. But, up until I dropped out, John and I were... very much alike.
That's hard to believe. The two of you seem so different.
I would imagine that we are, now. I think I'm ready to use the bathroom, finally.
This food is excellent.
Thank you.
Mother, father, sister.
Sister older or younger?
Younger.
I don't know.
Who's Elizabeth?
Do I pay taxes? Of course I pay taxes, only a liar doesn't pay taxes, I'm not a liar. A liar is the second lowest form of human being.
What's the first?
Lawyers.
Would you mind?
No.
Okay, I will!!
Maybe you'll understand this, because you know John, but he confuses me sometimes.
How do you mean?
Yeah, I know. I mean, I'm not saying I know people think you're a bitch, I'm saying I know what you mean. And I don't even know that people think you're a bitch. Do they?
I feel like they do.
Hmm. Well, maybe you are. Really, I wouldn't pay much attention.
I know that I just don't feel a connection with very many people, so I don't waste time with people I don't feel one with.
Right, right. I don't feel connected to many people, either. Other than John.
Can I tell you something personal? I feel like I can. It's something I couldn't tell John. Or wouldn't, anyway.
It's up to you. But I warn you, if you tell me something personal, I might do the same.
Okay. I think... I think sex is overrated. I think people place way too much importance on it. And I think that stuff about women wanting it just as bad is crap. I m not saying women don't want it, I just don't think they want it for the reason men think they do. I'm getting confused.
Do you understand what I'm trying to say?
I think so. I remember reading somewhere that men learn to love what they're attracted to, whereas women become more and more attracted to the person they love.
Yes! Yes! I think that's very true. Very.
So what about kids?
Kids? What about them?
Do you want them?
Yeah, actually, I do. But John doesn't. At least not right now.
Why is that?
I don't know, he just said he wants to wait. I quit asking.
So what's your personal thing? Are you really going to tell me something personal?
Do you want me to?
As long as it's not... gross, you know? Like some scar or something. It has to be like mine, like something about you.
Agreed.
You're what?
Impotent.
You are?
Well, let me put it this way: I cannot achieve an erection while in the presence of another person. So, for all practical purposes, I am impotent.
Does it bother you?
Not usually. I mean, honestly, I haven't known many guys that could think straight with an erection, so I feel I'm way ahead of the game as far as being clearheaded goes.
Well... are you selfconscious about it?
I am selfconscious, but not in the same way that you are. You have got to be the most attractive self conscious person I've ever seen.
Why do you say I'm selfconscious?
Well, I've been watching you. I've watched you eat, I've watched you speak, I've watched the way you move, and I see somebody who is extremely conscious of being looked at. I think you really believe that people are looking at you all the time. And you know what?
What?
They are looking at you. Ann, you are truly breathtaking. I don't know if you understand how your appearance can affect people. Men want to possess you, women wish they looked like you. And those that don't or can't resent you. And the fact that you're a nice person just makes it worse.
My therapist said that 
You're in therapy?
Aren't you?
Hah! No, I'm not. Actually, I used to be, but the therapist I had was really ineffectual in helping me deal with my problems. Of course, I lied to him constantly, so I guess I can't hold him totally responsible...
So you don't believe in therapy?
I believe in it for some people. I mean, for me it was silly, I was confused going in. So I just formed my own personal theory that you should never take advice from someone of the opposite sex that doesn't know you intimately.
Well, my therapist knows me intimately.
You had sex with you therapist?
Of course not.
Oh, see, I meant someone you've had sex with. That's part of the theory.
Excuse me for asking, but how would you know?
Well, I wasn't always impotent.
Now, you said never take advice from someone that you don't know intimately, right?
Basically, yes.
So since I've never had sex with you, by your own advice I shouldn't accept your advice.
That's correct. Bit of a dilemma, isn't it?
Hi!
Ann. Hello.
Are you in the middle of something?
Nothing I can't finish later.
I just wanted to see how the place looked furnished.
Not much to see, I'm afraid. I'm sort of cultivating a minimalist vibe.
Somehow I imagined books. I thought you would have like a whole lot of books and be reading all the time.
What are these?
Videotapes.
I can see that. What are they?
It's a personal project I'm working on.
What kind of personal project?
Oh, just a personal project like anyone else's personal project. Mine's just a little more personal.
Who's Donna?
Donna?
Donna. On this tape it says "Donna".
Donna was a girl I knew in Florida.
You went out with her?
Not really.
Because I enjoy interviewing women more than men.
All of these are interviews?
Yes.
Can we look at one?
No.
Why not?
Because I promised each subject that no one would look at the tape except me.
What... what are these interviews about?
The... interviews are about sex, Ann.
About sex?
Yes.
What about sex?
Everything about sex.
Like what?
Like what they've done, what they do, what they don't do, what they want to do but are afraid to ask for, what they won't do even if asked. Anything I can think of.
You just ask them questions?
Yes.
And they just answer them?
Mostly. Sometimes they do things.
To you?
No, not to me, for me, for the camera.
I don't... why... why do you do this?
I'm sorry this came up.
This is just... so...
Maybe you want to go.
Yes, I do.
I'm not sure why I came here. I had kind of decided not to talk to you after... you know.
I know.
John and Cynthia have been... "fucking".
I know.
You know?
Yes.
How did you know?
She said it on her tape.
Why didn't you tell me?
Ann, when would I have told you? We were not speaking, if you recall.
But even if we had been speaking, I wouldn't have told you.
Why not?
It's not my place to tell you these things, Ann. You have to find out by yourself or from John directly. You have to trust me on this.
Do you think that's such a good idea?
Don't you want to make one?
Yes. But I sense the element of revenge here.
What difference does it make why I do it?
I want you to be aware of what you're doing and why, because I know that this is not the sort of thing you would do in a normal frame of mind.
What would you know about a normal frame of mind?
That's a good question.
What do you have to do to get ready?
Load a new tape, turn the camera on.
Then do it.
How do you pay for all this? I mean, rent, and tapes and this equipment.
I have money.
What will you do when the money runs out?
It won't. Are you ready?
Yes.
Tell me your name.
Ann Bishop Millaney.
Tell me your name.
Ann Bishop Millaney.
You are married, correct?
Do you talk to him?
When we're making love?
Yes.
Sometimes. Afterward.
Does he go down on you?
You don't know what I'm thinking.
It's a simple question. Have you ever thought of having  making love with someone other than your husband?
Is he going to see this?
Absolutely not.
Did you have sex before you were married?
Yes.
Did the person you made love with satisfy you more than your husband?
I don't see what difference it makes, I mean, I can think what I want. I don't know if I want to do this anymore, I'm afraid... I don't mind answering the questions so much, but if somebody were to see this...
At some level, I don't understand your nervousness. Have you decided to leave John?
Yes, I have. I will.
Then as far as this taping goes, you have nothing to worry about.
I guess not.
Do you want me to stop?
No.
Are there people other than your previous lover that you have fantasized about?
Yes. Whenever... all right, look. Whenever I see a man that I think is attractive, I wonder what it would be like with him, I mean, I'm just curious, I don't act on it, but I hate that I think that!! I wish I could just forget about that stuff!!
Why?
Because that's how Cynthia thinks!! All she does is think about that stuff, and I hate that, I don't want to be like her, I don't want to be like her!!
You're not like your sister. You couldn't be like her if you wanted to.
I know. Deep down, I know that. It just bothers me, when I have feelings or impulses that she has.
So you do fantasize?
Yes.
About who?
I fantasized about you.
About me?
Yes.
Have you fantasized about me?
I thought I made that clear before, when I said I would go down on you.
I remember. You could do that, couldn't you? Go down on me?
Yes.
If I asked you to, would you? Not on tape, I mean?
No.
On tape?
No.
Why not?
If I can't do it all, I don't want to do anything. And I can't do it all.
Can't or won't?
Can't.
You said you weren't always impotent.
That's correct.
So you have had sex.
Yes.
Who was the last person you had sex with?
Her name was Elizabeth.
So what happened? Was it so bad that it turned you off?
No, it was wonderful. That wasn't the problem.
What was the problem?
The problem was me. I was... I was a pathological liar. Or am, I should say. Lying is like alcoholism, one is always "recovering".
So you lied to her?
Yes. I did. Willfully and repeatedly.
How come?
I loved her for how good she made me feel, and I hated her for how good she made me feel. And at that time, I tended to express my feelings non verbally. I couldn't handle anyone having that much control over my emotions.
And now you can?
Now I make sure that no one has the opportunity to test me.
Don't you get lonely?
How could I, with all these nice people stopping by? The fact is that I've lived by myself for so long, I can't imagine living with another person. It's amazing what you can get used to if enough time goes by. And anyway, I'm asking the questions. Are you happy?
I don't know anymore. I thought I was, but obviously I was wrong.
Did you confront John with the fact that you knew about him?
Not yet. I'm not sure I will. I just want out.
If you do get out of your marriage, will you continue to be inhibited?
I don't know. It all gets back to that Cynthia thing. I don't like her... eagerness. There's nothing left to imagine, there's no...
Subtlety?
Subtlety, yes. No subtlety. Plus, I've never really felt able to open up with anyone. I mean, that other person I told you about, I enjoyed making love with him a lot, but I still wasn't able to really let go. I always feel like I'm being watched and I shouldn't embarrass myself.
And you feel the same way with John?
Kind of. I mean, John's like this kind of... craftsman. Like he's a carpenter, and he makes really good tables. But that's all he can make, and I don't need anymore tables.
Interesting analogy.
I'm babbling.
No, you're not.
God, I m so mad at him!!
You should be. He lied to you. So did Cynthia.
Yeah, I know, but somehow I expect that from her, I mean, she'll do it with almost anybody, I don't know, I shouldn't stick up for her I guess, but him. He lied so... deeply!! Ooo, I want to watch him die!!
You're really never going to make love again?
I'm not planning on it.
If you were in love with me, would you?
I'm not in love with you.
But if you were?
I... I can't answer that precisely.
But I feel like maybe I could be really comfortable with you.
That's very flattering.
So why won't you make love with me? Why wouldn't you, I mean?
Ann. Are you asking me hypothetically, or are you asking me for real, right now?
I'm asking for real. I want you to turn that camera off and make love with me. Will you?
I can't.
Why not?
I've told you.
But I don't understand 
Ann, it could happen to me all over again, don't you see? I could start to 
But how do you know for sure, you have to try to find a way to fig 
I couldn't face her if I had slept with somebody else.
Who? Elizabeth?
Yes.
You mean you're still in contact with her?
No.
But you're planning to be?
I don't know. Possibly.
Wait a minute, wait a minute. What's going on here? Did you come back here just to see her again?
Not entirely.
But that was part of it?
Yes.
Like maybe a big part?
Possibly.
Graham, I mean, what do you think her reaction is going to be if you contact her?
I don't know.
Look at you, look at what's happened to you, look how you've changed! Don't you think she will have changed?
I don't know. I really would rather not talk about it.
Whoa!! I'm so glad we got that on tape!! You won't answer a question about Elizabeth, but I have to answer all these intimate questions about my sex life!! Graham, what do you think she's going to make of all these videotapes? Are you going to tell her about them? I can't imagine her being too understanding about that. But since you don't lie anymore, you'll have to say something.
As I said, I haven't decided what to do, exactly. Perhaps I won't do anything.
Oh, you just moved here to think about it, right?
All right, you want to talk about lies, let's talk about lies, Ann. Let's talk about lying to yourself. You haven't been able to sleep with your husband because you're no longer in love with him, and maybe you never were. You haven't been honest with yourself in longer than you can remember.
Yeah, you're right. But I never claimed to know everything like you, and have all these little theories. I'm still learning, I know that. But I don't feel like I've wasted time. If I had to go through my marriage to get to where I am right now, fine.
Don't do that.
Why not?
Because.
"Because"? That's not good enough. I asked you a question, Graham. I asked you "how does it feel"? How does it feel, Mr. I Want To Go Down On You But I Can't? Do you know how many people you've sucked into your weird little world? Including me? Come on, how does it feel?
I can't tell you like this.
I'm just going to keep asking until you answer. I'm sure there's plenty of tape.
I don't find this "turning the tables" thing very interesting 
I don't care.
Come on!!
All right!! All right!! You want to know? You want to know how I feel? I feel ashamed. Is that what you wanted to hear?
Why are you ashamed?
Jesus Christ, Ann. Why is anybody anything? I think you have this idea that people are either all good or all bad, and you don't allow for any gray areas, and that's what most of us consist of.
You're not answering me.
Well, what kind of answer are you looking for, Ann? What is it exactly that you want to know?
I want to know why you are the way you are!
And I'm telling you it's not any one thing that I can point to and say "That's why!" It doesn't work that way with people who have problems, Ann, it's not that neat, it's not that tidy! It's not a series of little boxes that you can line up and count. Things just don't happen that way.
But why can't you just put it all behind you? Can't you just forget it? All that stuff you did?
No, Ann, I can't. I can't forget it. It's not something I can fix. It's difficult. There s something in my mind... the way my brain works... God, Ann, when you're with another person, and you're... inside them, you're so vulnerable, you're revealing so much... there's no protection. And... somebody could say, or do something to you while you're in this... state of... nakedness. And they could hurt you without even knowing it. In a way that you couldn't even see. And you would withdraw. To make sure it didn't happen again.
I want to touch you.
No.
Graham...
I'm okay. It's okay.
I'm sorry to be late, Natalie.
We haven't even begun tea yet.
Sorry. I'm nervous. This is very trying for me.
I know. You introduced Jacqueline to us  but how could you tell 
I should have known. She had no sincerity  no real belief.
Jacqueline, you have spoken so often of ending it all, I can't understand why this should be so difficult for you. You have only to drink a little.
Yes, Jacqueline. You were always talking suicide   of ending your life when you wanted to.
You have only to stretch out your hand, take up the glass and drink a little.
It won't hurt.
I went back through the history last night. I read about Johann Rozenquartz  I read what he wrote 
I can quote it fully, Mrs. Redi. "We will avoid violence. For once undertaken, violence becomes its own master and can lead to either good or evil."
But he also wrote 
I can quote that too; "Those who shall go out into the market place and let their tongues speak of us, and give knowledge of our being and our deeds, whomsoever doeth this shall die."
But she told him, Frances. She told him about us.
I know this is difficult for you. I know that you love her.
It is a very real danger and one which forces our decision.
What about Judd  he knows about us.
I have taken care of Mary. I've spoken to her. She's going back to school.
Then it is decided. Leo and Durk and I will make our plans.
Miss Gibson, I'm tired of resting.
Shhh Nancy. The other children.
Is it fifteen minutes yet?
No, Nancy. You've got to sleep two more minutes.
Children, I want you to be very good and very quiet while I see Mrs. Wheeler a moment. She's going to take over this class for a while.
Why
Because I have something very important to do.
What?
I'll be right back with Mrs. Wheeler.
When?
I'm worry to bother you. I want to ask you about my sister.
Yes?
I thought you might know her. She was seen here about a week ago. Her name is Jacqueline Gibson.
I don't know no Gibson. This is a restaurant. Many people come here.
She's very beautiful.
No  the rent in paid. The lady asked us to promise, I wouldn't open the door.
Please.
Fo come ti pare. To desiderare sempre di vedere che cosa c'era in quella stanza.
What did he say?
Your sister   have you heard from her lately?
No, Mrs. Lowood, she doesn't write often.
Have you any other relatives, Mary?
That makes it all the more difficult 
Difficult? Has anything happened to Jacqueline?
We don't know, Mary. We've been unable to get in touch with your sister.
Sometimes she can be quite careless. Why don't you try Mrs. Redi?
I have written repeatedly to Mrs. Redi. She vouchsafes no information whatsoever. It is six months since your tuition has been paid, Mary. Naturally, it is impossible for you to stay on here as a paying pupil.
Of course.
But, Mrs. Lowood, I can't just stay here not knowing what's happened to my sister. Maybe if I went to New York  if I saw Mrs. Redi myself 
I doubt if you'll get anything out of that woman. But if you'd like to try, I'll advance you the money to make the trip to New York. Of course, my dear, if you don't find your sister, you can always come back here.
Once you'd seen my sister you'd never forget her.
Giacomo  la bellisslina madonna 
Yes yes, if she made that much impression on you, I'm sure it was Jacqueline.
She's not been here for a long time.
But she was here?
Oh yes, yes. One day a beautiful car comes here. This beautiful lady in furs gets out. There is a handsome man with her, and the chauffeur The lady rents one of our upstairs rooms. The chauffeur changes the lock on the door. Then the lady never comes back not to live, anyhow. She came back three, four times, but always alone and just to eat.
You mean she just came here, rented the room, locked it, and left?
Yes  and pays the rent every month.
Could you let me see that room? If it is hers, there might be something there to help me find my sister.
But you must know someone who has seen or heard of my sister.
I'm afraid not.
Mrs. Redi, there's one thing with Jacqueline gone, how do you carry on the business? What do you do with the receipts? How do you sign checks?
Mary, I'm amazed. Didn't Jacqueline tell you? She sold the business to me at least eight months ago. It's my business now.
I didn't know.
Yes and I must say I've done very well with it  perhaps even better than Jacqueline.
There's nothing you can think of  old letters, anything, that might give me some hint as to where I might find Jacqueline?
Leave me your address, and if I find anything, I'll get in touch with you.
I'm stopping at the Chatsworth.
Thank you, my dear.
I'm afraid not.
That's too bad.
Yes.
This is Mrs. Redi, Mary.
I'll be out in a minute.
That won't be necessary. I haven't much to say.
If I were you, Mary  I'd go back to school. I'd make no further attempt to find Jacqueline.
Why?
It will make you unhappy to find Jacqueline. It would put her in danger  great danger 
I can almost feel your doubt about what I'm saying, Mary.
I can't give up looking for her, Mrs. Redi, no matter what you're hinting at.
I have no intention whatsoever of hinting. Your sister, Mary, is a murderess. She killed Irving August  stabbed him out of fright when he discovered where she was hiding.
I don't believe it.
I had to help get rid of the body. You saw it on the subway. And I warn you, Mary  go back  you don't know what you're doing, or what dreadful things you might bring about by looking for your sister. You go back to school   go back and forget Jacqueline.
I know the others  Redi, Fallon, Leo, Bruns. But I would never have guessed it of you, Natalie.
One believes  it's like any other religion...
I'd hardly describe It that way  The worship of evil is a pretty dreadful and special thing.
It seems right to us.
I know the theory behind the movement. If one believes in good one believes in evil. If one believes in God, one must believe in the devil. And an intelligent person can make his own choice that's it, isn't it?
Because you are intelligent  that's why they sent me to you 
I think I can give you a more practical reason for your kind invitation. I know too much. I was Jacqueline's psychoanalyst.
I always thought it was a more intimate relationship.
Perhaps, Natalie, this is a bargain you're offering me I am being allowed to join  to buy safety by betraying Jacqueline  is that it?
I haven't said anything of the sort.
But you would like to know where she is?
Yes. There are certain punitive measures...
I can imagine. But you did say you came to me as my friend that you were concerned for me.
I'm afraid you have mistaken my motive, Louis. I thought you might understand and sympathize.
I have no sympathy for either good or evil. I have only curiosity  a professional curiosity. What unhappy people most of you are!
Are we? I thought I was very gay.
A gay lot  Redi, for instance. I don't know what her sorrow is, but her life's an empty one. She's had to have this to cling to. Frances Fallon, with her worship of Jacqueline, has had to follow like a sheep. And Bruns, the fanatic. And you...
I was a great dancer...
A strange collection. You're like the false god you worship... fallen angels, all of you.
Life has betrayed us. We've found there is no heaven on earth, so we must worship evil for evil's own sake. We're not wicked. We commit no violence, unless...
Unless what?
No, you draw no secrets from me, as you drew them from Jacqueline. You are not one of us yet. You're clever, Louis, but I recognize your interest in me for what it is worth. You are only curious. You have never loved a woman who had but one arm.
It would be a charming experience. She might only protest half as much.
You're very flippant and perhaps wise, but not wise enough to see the truth, Louis.
Is it about Jacqueline?
No. She's no longer under my care.
I don't know how to begin this, Natalie. Perhaps it's best to just plunge in. I want to join you.
We always knew you'd come to us, Louis.
But I'm not coming to you out of deep conviction, I'm coming to you out of loss. I no longer can believe in the power and the rightness of things that are called good.
I never thought you did.
I've talked nonsense. I've scoffed and hooted  but somewhere very deep down in me, I always felt that good held the balance of power.
You're even sentimental about it. What made you change your mind?
This is incredible I It must be some sort of a joke.
I'm very, very serious.
But you have never liked Jason. You always laughed at him  quarreled with him 
And I love and admire him more than any man I ever knew. I read these poems. He's lost his talent and his was a really great gift. What I have to do today  to bring him this rejected manuscript will be the most disheartening thing I have ever done and the most disillusioning.
This is the most amusing thing I have ever heard and with a bit of gossip to season it your failure with Jacqueline. Has she returned to her husband?
No, she's with her sister,
Dr. Judd?
Yes, Miss Gibson. I've come to take you to your sister.
Don't be so amazed. It's a very ordinary matter. I'm Jacqueline's physician... Mr. Ward told me you were in town and Jacqueline has sent me to bring you to her.
You know where she is?
If I didn't know where she was, could I take you to her? Get your hat and coat. We haven't much time.
It's my cloven hoof. It trips me up sometimes.
Cloven hoof?
Yes. You know the devil and all his minions are marked that way.
Yes. You could become a country wife  fool around with petunias and pullets.
It will be fun meeting Gregory every night at the station.
Would they hurt her?
I don't know.
Where is Jacqueline Gibson?
What a peculiar question.
I saw you with her last week. I knew you'd be here tonight. Where is she?
My dear fellow, it's neither your business to ask, nor mine to tell.
See that girl? That's Jacqueline's sister. It's because of her I ask.
But why come to me?
Because there was another girl years ago  a nice girl. She lived on Barrow Street. I saw her with you once  I saw her with you twice and then I never saw her again. That's why.
She was my patient.
What was she to you?
I don't think that you would understand if I told you.
I think I understand without your telling me. I know something of your history, Jason. I know that you haven't written for ten years.
I've lost my knack.
After that wonderful first book  after all the adulation and the good reviews?
Following me to find Jacqueline?
Uhhuh.
Well, it won't work. Love and understanding won't make a good detective out of a recalcitrant poet.
Actually I want to ask two favors of you  one as a poet one as a detective.
It sounds strange, and I'm going to be very wary.
This is curious, Jason. Half the time you talk as if Shakespeare were not fit to tie your shoelaces; now this sudden humility.
I should like people to read what I've written.
And this poetry like the poetry you wrote before extols the passion and beauty of life?
It goes beyond that. It praises the goodness of God and the greatness of all His works.
I hope it finds as much favor as your other book  but somehow I doubt it  the time is out of tune.
Why not let your publisher judge that?
Wait  there is that other favor.
I'd forgotten.
Tell me where Jacqueline is  we've got to find her.
You don't expect me to do that do you?
Yes. When I tell you.
Tell me what?
You'll have good enough sense to tell us where she is  when you know she's a murderess. She killed a man.
Tell me, why this sudden desire to publish to awaken like Byron and find yourself famous.
I think it's time.
No other reason no woman not the little Miss Gibson?
Perhaps.
I'll do all I can to help. I'll go to my publisher tomorrow.
I'm afraid this is no time to play Cyrano, my friend. What was in your mind?
I wanted to get things clear for Jacqueline. Let her know 
I suppose, Jason, that you'll speak for your friend   and your poetry will speak for you.
Perhaps
I don't suppose you'll ever tell her, will you?
She is very young  I have an old habit of failure. It would be a bad habit to bring to a marriage.
A book of successful verse might have changed that, eh?
It might have.
If you like, I'll go with you to dinner.
I'd like that.
What?
They may have found her. Mrs. Cortez  this morning I told her Jacqueline was no longer under my care.
Oh, Mr. Jason. I really shouldn't be doing this, you know. It's against the rules. When did you say you wanted them?
I want to see what they read so I'll know what kind of books to give my friends as presents. There's nothing nicer for a gift than a book.
Who was the first one  Mrs. Redi?
And the other was Judd?
Yes, Dr. Louis Judd.
It's here, too.
Would it be asking too much, Miss Gottschalk, for you to get me these books?
No, not at all, Mr. Jason.
Why, Mr. Jason. Most of these books are on the closed shelf. You have to get permission.
I wouldn't want to take them out. I just want to look at them.
Well, since, you're over twenty one
Ah, my Jason  always laughing  always trying to help others. He's a good boy, Miss  he just talks that way.
I'm a good boy, but no one listens to what I say.
Jason, my pet 
Bella Romari If I were not seated, I would embrace you in three movements like a sonata. Ah, my wonderful one. Fly with me tonight. We will take your coffee machine and live with the gypsies.
What are you thinking of, Bella? Can I eat dry?
Oh, the wine. I have forgotten the wine.
Why can't everyone be happy like we are  laugh and have good times. Look at that poor little one so sad because she can't find her sister. And that man with her  he doesn't make her laugh he just sits and talks.
We are happy, Mrs. Romari, because you have everything and I am happy because I have nothing to lose.
But you should make her laugh, Jason. Come, make jokes for her. I'll bring your food to their table.
Were you going to make a suggestion?
Yes. I was going to tell you to look into your own heart  do you really want to find your sister?
Well,then I have spoiled your dinner  "your food won't digest, and your wine will sour."
You will have to make all the jokes, because I'm going to be very serious.
At least you knew about Dr. Judd.
Yes.
And you knew he'd be here.
Yes. And now that I've shown you that I know that much, and can guess more  will you trust me to look for Jacqueline?
I want you to look for Jacqueline.
It's terribly sweet of you, Jason.
I have something even better.
I have been at the library.
But you're always at the library.
I went as a detective. I found out that Mrs. Redi reads the same books as Dr. Judd.
I don't think that's so revealing.
But who is Judd, a psychiatrist. It's quite natural that he should read books on the history of old religious societies. But why should Mrs. Redi, a woman with a beauty parlor ?
I don't know.
That's it. And this figure she traced it. The book I saw at the library had been marked "perfect" by the library inspector in March. Mrs. Redi had it out in April. No one else had read it since.
I'm at sea, Jason.
Such a simple matter. This figure is the symbol of the Palladists.
It's all clear to me now  so clear.
I thought it would be, but just to be sure, I'll tell you that the Palladists are a society of Devil worshippers 
Devil worshippers!
Look. I'm serious. It's a real and vary earnest society  a dangerous society...
I can imagine.
Some time before those nice white gloves are dry you're going to go and find out a few things about Mrs. Redi.
I want you to see my room. I want you to see all of it.
But it's a small room, Jason.
It's grown big with time  I've lived here with the Romari's for ten years  the room's become part of me. I want you to see it to know me better.
My window   through which I see the world.
It's beautiful  that searchlight  the stars 
It's not a searchlight it's a sword blade cutting the blue cloak of a prince  not stars 
Jason, I'm going back to Highcliffe. I came to say goodby.
I thought your coming up here to the third floor to see me that it was your advent into my world. It turns out to be goodby. Why?
I have to go 
But you're happy here  you like your work 
It isn't that  you said, "have to go." What could compel you 
Don't make me tell you, Jason.
I thought myself your friend, Mary. Just goodbye isn't enough for a friend.
I had begun to write again that's whet I was doing when you came in.
It's because of Jacqueline I can't go on looking for her 
You went to see Mrs. Redi... She told you something  what was it?
Jacqueline is a murderess she killed a man.
And you believe that?
I have to. It was Irving August  everything Mrs. Redi said  it fits in with what I saw  she even knew I'd seen his body on the subway.
If it is true there's all the more reason for you to find Jacqueline.
And Gregory  he loves her.
He loves you, Mary, and you'll have to tell him.
He's Jacqueline's husband. I can't
I can't find Gregory. I've been trying to find him.
What's wrong, Mary?
Jacqueline. Mr. Romari phoned me. She went out this afternoon with two men he'd never seen before.
They may have been friends of hers.
I hate people who try to peddle comfort. But,Mary, you shouldn't mourn for Jacqueline. Life for her was full of the agony of a disordered mind. It's better this way.
I keep telling myself that.
Not I  I am alive, yet every hope I had is dead, Death can be good. Death can be happy.. If I were really dying I could speak like Cyrano  "My courage like a white plume" and all the other lovely words with which he greeted death. Then perhaps you might understand,
I understand.
Good. We all understand each other. You, Gregory and I. We all know. There is sunlight in the streets and work to do. Both of you  you're off to work.
Please, Jacqueline.
You know about the Palladists  you know who they are  what they are. I was one of them.
Goodbye, darling. I'll only be gone until three.
Goodbye.
If you get lonely, go down and see Mrs. Romari. I told her you were staying with me.
I won't get lonely.
You'll be all right?
Yes.
Who are you?
I'm Mimi  I'm dying.
No!
Yes. It's been quiet, oh ever so quiet. I hardly move, yet it keeps coming all the time closer and closer. I rest and rest and yet I am dying.
And you don't want to die. I've always wanted to die  always.
I'm afraid.
I'm tired of being afraid  of waiting.
Why wait?
I'm not going to wait. I'm going out  laugh, dance do all the things I used to do.
And then?
I don't know.
You will die.
I'm going to find your sister.
I don't think that's a good subject for jokes, Mr. Hoag.
But I'm not joking.
Don't be ridiculous. For months I've had the best private detective in New York looking for Miss Gibson.
But I'm better than a detective. I have an understanding of people  and a love of them  an understanding of the city  
You don't even know Jacqueline Gibson.
But I understand her. That may be more important.
It may make very fine poetry, Mr. Hoag, but it doesn't make good sense.
Mary, when you first came here, I told you to look into your heart. You didn't listen to me. You listened to the policeman instead. You didn't find your sister, did you?
Look here, just because Mrs. Romari asked you to amuse us.
Well?
This is the part of New York I love. It is old. It has memories. If you listen, the houses will speak to you. Walt Whitman...Edna St. Vincent Millay... Eugene O'Neill...in their time they've all lived here.
All very nice but, what are you going to do  listen at every house in New York for Jacqueline's voice?
I'm looking for a party  a merry party.
Well, that's illuminating.
Do you think he knows about this?
I don't know.
He's clever and he's cautious in his way. If he knew I think he'd advise her to do what I want  surrender herself to the police stand trial I don't think he knows.
We could tell him.
Could you find him?
I suppose so. I can pick him up somewhere.
What's that?
Verse  verse that I wrote. I need it.
Let her know what?
That you love Mary.
She'll have to know some time.
Not from me.
We're not exactly strangers, Mary. Jacqueline spoke about you often. I suppose she told you about me,
No...At the morgue they told me a Mr. Gregory Ward had made inquiries about Jacqueline.
The Morgue? No wonder you fainted. I wish you had come to me first.
Then you know where Jacqueline is?
But I'd give a great deal to know.
Why?
I love your sister, Mary. I love her very much.
A man would look anywhere for her, Mary. There is something exciting and unforgettable about her  something you never get hold of  something that keeps a man following after her.
Because I loved Jacqueline I thought I knew her. Today I found out such strange things frightening things. I saw a hangman's noose that she had hanging  waiting I feel as if I'd never known her.
At least I can explain that, Mary. Your sister had a feeling about life that it wasn't worth living unless one could end it. I helped her get that room.
Weren't you afraid?
Afraid she might commit suicide? People who commit suicide don't talk about it. That room made her happy in some strange way I couldn't understand. She lived in a world of her own fancy. She didn't always tell the truth. In fact  I'm afraid she didn't know what the truth was. There were many things about Jacqueline I didn't understand, and yet, without understanding, I had to be with her to see her to touch her in order to be happy. It's hard to explain to a youngster.
I'm not a youngster. I can understand.
Thank you. It was a lovely dinner.
Good.
But I reel guilty. It doesn't seem right for me to enjoy myself with Jacqueline gone.
You can't make it your life's work looking for Jacqueline. ) You'll have to do other things... live...get some enjoyment out of life. I hope you'll let me help you.
Thank you.. .goodnight.
Goodnight, Mary.
This is about another murder a woman at Fifty Second Street
But you do believe me?
The important thing is, the police won't believe you.
I saw him on the floor. He was cut  here. The blood was running out. He was dead. I'm sure of it. Then on the subway I saw him white and the men holding him up between them.
Yes, of course but the police would say you'd probably had a bad dream.
He was a kind little man in his way and I made him go down that hall into the darkness. I made him do it.
Drink your milk.
I'm sorry. I didn't intend to treat you like a child.
But you have treated me that way.
I won't do it again. We're friends. I'll never order you about again.
However, I won't say that I'll not take charge occasionally, and I'm going to take charge new. I've a job for you.
A job?
You told me you were pretty good with youngsters. Today I bumped into an old friend of mine, Mrs. Wheeler She runs a settlement house down in the Village and is looking for a kindergarten teacher.
I'd like that.
It's not much money, but it's enough to live on. You'd have to move out of that hotel and into a furnished room.
Maybe the Romaris might have a room. They seem nice.
The people at the restaurant?
Yes.
What brought you down here, Greg?
Oh, I had business with a man... but I missed him 
Well, I'm glad you came to see me.
What have you done about Irving August?
Oh, I'm making investigations.
You've never believed a word I told you about Mr. August.
Look, Mary, now that I know you better, I think I can be more frank with you. I don't believe you. I still can't understand the reason for such a wild tale. It's like some of Jacqueline's stories.
Greg, it isn't a wild tale. It's true. If there were only some way 
There is a very simple way. Got a telephone book?
Please  I can't explain things like this to your right ear.
Last night in this very restaurant Mr. Jason Hoag paid a very pretty compliment to my right ear.
Who the devil is he?
A poet. He's sitting right over there. That's his table the one at the feet of Dante.
You could have told me any time you were Jacqueline's husband.
Things changed, Mary. The reasons for finding Jacqueline changed. I want to find Jacqueline to settle things.
What things? Why?
She's got to be found. That's the first step. She's got to be found so that she can give herself up to the police.
We've tried so long to find her.
Don't. We know what happened. Don't go on.
Any court in the land would understand. We'll wait a few days  let you rest  then we'll go to the police.
It will all be over in such a little while, Jacqueline, and everything will be all right again. Drink your coffee.
I thought I might close up the apartment  maybe get a place in Connecticut.
You'd love that, Jackie. Remember that last summer with Mother in the Berkshires? You used to help the gardener.
Good night, Jacqueline  good night, Mary.
Good night.
That was Dr. Judd. He was phoning to say that, Jacqueline is on her way here 
Gregory you'd better take Jacqueline with you tonight.
It's what I should have done yesterday. I'll take her away somewhere where she can rest.
No. Stay that way. I want to talk to you. I love you  you know that?
Yes.
Perhaps, later, when things are settled, when Jacqueline's well again  maybe we can arrange things differently.
I've never loved any one before, Gregory, and I do love you  you must know it  but Jacqueline's my sister whom I had lost and have found again....
I know I shouldn't have told you
No, I'm glad....at least I've heard you say it...
What did she want?
I did her hair.
What were you talking about?
Nothing.
Nothing! That's absurd. I heard you laughing and talking, She was asking questions.
She was just asking about you  Whether it was nice to work for you or not.
And that was all?
No. She asked about the trademark.
What did she want to know?
She showed me a drawing.
You fool! That symbol is us  us. She was asking about us.
Some of us, Frances, must believe without understanding.
Yes.
Why, Mary 
Hello, Frances.
How's Miss Jacqueline?
I don't know. That's why I came to see Mrs. Redi. I'm trying to find her.
You mean Miss Jacqueline's gone, and you don't know where she is?
I don't get this. Miss Jacqueline was always so fond of you  she was always talking about you  had your picture in her office.
I know. For the first time I'm beginning to be frightened. I almost feel as if I'd never known my sister.
Nothing's happened to her. It's just that I can't understand her not getting in touch with you.
I can't understand it at all.
Well, don't worry. I saw Miss Jacqueline only a week ago. I saw her at a little restaurant the boy friend took me to  an Italian place down in the Village  "The Dante."
"The Dante?"
It's on Peary Street. Just ask the people who run it. They'll remember her. People who see Miss Jacqueline never forget her.
I'll try there.
I can't see much fun in teaching school. Why don't you go into the beauty business.
But I like teaching school.
Well, if it's fun for you, it's all right. I get a kick out of my work when the customers aren't too crabby.
Is Mrs. Redi nice to work for?
Redi's all right.
She seems rather an odd woman to me.
She's a pretty good sort.
What does she do with herself after business hours?
It always seemed to me she was sort of lonely and unhappy.
I guess most people are.
The tip is, anyhow. I like to work on your hair.
Thank you.
Do you know what this is, Frances?
I ought to know.
What is it?
I've come from Jacqueline. She needs money.
I thought you told me you didn't know where she was.
I didn't. She came to me a few days ago. To put it delicately her care imposes a financial burden upon me. She thought you might lighten that burden.
If Jacqueline wants money she can come to me herself.
I'm afraid she can't do that, Ward. It would endanger her.
What sort of danger?
You're a curious man. You're willing to jeopardize Jacqueline's life in order to satisfy your own curiosity.
You come to me with some wild story about her being in danger  naturally I want to know what kind of danger. I want to know where she is.
It's not just for myself I'm asking. Her sister is here. The kid's half crazy with anxiety.
As a man, you distrust me  perhaps you believe me as a physician.
Well, then I can tell you that in addition to other dangers, there is a grave danger of Jacqueline losing her sanity. I would advise against you seeing her.
But why? She's been ill erratic, but I've never heard of anything like that!
How much does she want?
She could use a hundred dollars.
I'll give you a check.
She can only use cash.
I haven't got that much in cash.
How much have you got?
About fortyfive dollars.
For the time being, I imagine that must do.
Tell me, how is Jacqueline?
Oh, as beautiful as ever.
But tell me 
She's nervous, naturally, under the circumstances.
What circumstances?
Mr. Ward will see you in just a few minutes. Won't you wait, Dr. Judd?
Thank you.
Are you Dr. Louis Judd?
Yes.
I read your book. The one in which you wrote about the cure for drinking.
You're not a dipsomaniac at your age?
No. It's my father  I wanted to talk to you  you wrote about cures 
The acceptance of a secret is an obligation and in this case my dear, the obligation carried with it the necessity of dying if one betrayed that secret. You understand that don't you?
Yes, I understand.
Then, you also understand that you must die.
No.
When I wanted to.
It doesn't matter. You want to now. You should want to. It's your obligation, your duty.
May I have some water? I'm thirsty.
Drink.
No.
You won't get any water and you won't get any rest. You may as well drink.
The name may not mean anything to you, young lady, but say the word and I'll have your sister for you in fortyeight hours.
You can?
Look, sister', Manhattan is only nine miles long and four and one half miles wide. I ain't never been off it. I know it like you know your own back yard. You get me a small retainer say fifty bucks, and I'll get your sister for you. I guarantee
I haven't any money but I'll get a job and 
I've been waitin' for you Miss Gibson. I want you to know I've decided to take your case.
Mr. August, I'm not at all sure 
Look. Don't say a word. I've taken an interest in you and I'm willin' to put up my time to help you. Besides, I think I know where to find your sister.
Where?
Wait a minute. This has got a lot of angles. You've got to take it easy. Do you know a Mrs. Redi?
Yes. She bought my sister's business.
That's what she told you. I looked it up at the Hall of Records. Your sister deeded her the business as an outright girt.
Why would Mrs. Redi lie to me?
That's what I tried to find out. I went to La Jeunesse  used a phony health inspector's badge they let me go through the works  all but one room. That room was locked. I'd like to see the inside of that room.
You think my sister is there?
You can't tell.
Can we go there now?
Sister, you can't just go breaking into places. There's a night watchman down there and locks on the door.
If my sister's in that room, it won't make any difference about warrants and things, I want to go there.
I don't know if I want to go with you or not.
I don't like this.
Which room is it?
It's the last door at the end of this hall.
You scared?
Yes.
Let's get out of here.
No.
It's only a little way, Mr. August.
I'd like to get out of here.
No.
We can't stand here all night.
You could go and open the door.
Listen 
You know who I am, August?
Sure I do.
Then you know that if I give you a little advice, it'll be good advice.
Yeah  sure.
That girl was looking for Jacqueline Gibson. I'd forget it if I were you.
Okay, Mr. Radeau, it's forgot.
Young man, this Faberge Egg is chipped.
Yes, ma'am, it is.
I'll give you fifty cents.
That's a Franklin Mint piece. Eight dollars.
Eight dollars?! Franklin Mint or not, it's damaged goods!
I'll take this instead.
Nice one, huh? Winter's coming. Three dollars?... I guess that's what I marked it...
What was that?
I didn't hear anything. Got any dessert?
Dr. Sutphin said no sweets for you.
What's he know?
How to send a bill!!
What is it, Betty?
We have mice! I mean it, Ralph! I saw one!
I don't know what it is about today, but I FEEL GREAT!
Excuse me, Mrs. Sutphin.
Man, that one made me puke!
You forgot something...
Are we leaving?
Yes you are.
SHE DID IT! Aimed the car right at Mr. Stubbins and mowed him down!
From what I understand, the eye witness is a drug user.
Murder, honey.
Now, here's a babe!
Mrs... Sutphin?
Right here!
Mrs. Sutphin, I'm Paul Stubbins, Chip's math teacher.
Nice to meet you, Mr. Stubbins. A little something I baked.
Oooohh! A fruit cake. Thank you, Mrs. Sutphin. Have a seat.
Bon Appetit!
Chip is off to a fine start this year. Focused... conscientious... participates actively in classroom discussion.
He's a good boy.
There is one big problem though.
What is it, Mr. Stubbins?
His unhealthy obsession with sick horror films.
He is assistant manager of a video shop...
That's no excuse for a morbid imagination. I caught him drawing this in class last week. Is there a problem at home?
Certainly not!
Divorce? An alcoholic relative? Tell me, did Chip torture animals when he was young?
No, he did not! We are a loving supportive family, Mr. Stubbins.
Well, you're doing something wrong, Mrs. Sutphin. I'd recommend therapy for your son. Thank you for taking the time to come to PTA.
Beverly, are you alright?
Rosemary, honey. Good morning. I'm fine. Thanks for remembering.
It's the least I could do. I heard shouting.
Just the damn cable TV company. You know how they are. Did you hear about Dottie Hinkle?
Yes, I did. It's terrifying! The police were at my house this morning.
Who on earth would want to harass poor Dottie Hinkle?
That's like your car, Beverly,
I'm not that bad a driver. Look at her hair! Turn it off, honey.
Did you find your Franklin Mint egg, Rosemary darling?
I saw one, but it was ridiculously overpriced!
You want me to keep that under the table for you?
If you wouldn't mind... It was on sale.
Beverly, honey, you've got some... ...dodo on your shoe.
Ewwww! Thank you, Rosemary.
Mrs. Ackerman, when you left me at the fleamarket, where did you go?
...Browsing.
Did Carl Padgett buy something you wanted?
I didn't want that Faberge egg  it was chipped!
Carl Padgett died for the Franklin Mint, didn't he?!
NO! I could never hurt anyone!
That was your People magazine with the letters cut out, wasn't it?
Yes, but I lent it...
And those were your scissors found sticking out of Mrs. Sterner's stomach, weren't they?
Yes... but... I didn't...
Mrs. Ackerman, do you recycle?
No... I don't have room in my kitchen...
Who wants fruit salad?
I do, please.
That's not gum in your mouth, is it?
It's sugarless.
You know how I hate gum, Misty. All that chomping and cheesing...
Sorry, Mom. Thanks. Hey, Chip, think I could get 50c for Vanilla Ice.
And who may I ask is Carl?
Just a boy. He's picking me up this morning.
He killed people, Mom.
We all have bad nights.
Yummy. Carl says if I lose ten pounds, he'll take me to the University of Maryland Fall Mixer.
Misty, if you want to lose weight go ahead, but do it for yourself, not for some boy you barely know.
I'm stoodup! I'll kill that bastard!
Don't say words unless you mean them, Misty.
It's him!
No, honey, it's the police. Hello, officers.
Damn these yellowjackets! I hate 'em!
Always something isn't it? Can I help you?
It's just not your day, is it Rosemary?
Watch the booth! I'll be back!
0h, that's horrible, honey. I sold the PeeWee Herman doll!!
Mother! Did you hear me?! Someone murdered Carl in the mensroom! I saw his dead body!
You got your wish.
But... I didn't wish... I didn't want him DEAD!
State your name, please.
Marvin A. Pickles.
Were you in the men's room at the Edmonson Drive In Flea Market on Saturday, September 19th?
Yes, I was.
Mr. Pickle! Did you see anybody in the booth next to you?
I... I'm not sure... ...I... oohhh... Excuse me...
What do you mean, you're not sure?!
Ooohhhhhh! I made it all up! I never saw Beverly Sutphin in my life!
You'll pay for this, Marvin A. Pickles! I'm turning your file over to the vicesquad!! The prosecution rests, your honor.
Hello.
Is this the Cocksucker residence?
Goddamn you! STOP CALLING HERE!
Isn't this 4215 Pussy Way?
You bitch!
Let me check the zip  212 Fuck you?
The police are tracing your call right this minute.
Well, Dottie, how come they're not here then, FuckFace?
FUCK YOU!
FUCK YOU TOO, YOU ROTTEN WHORE!!
I beg your pardon?
Who is this?
Mrs. Wilson from the telephone company. I understand you're having problems with obscene calls.
Yes, I am... I'm sorry Mrs. Wilson... It's driving me crazy... I've changed my number twice already... Please help me!
What exactly does this sick individual say to you?
I can't say it out loud. I don't use bad language.
I know it's hard but we need the exact words.
Alright, I'll try... "Cocksucker". That's what she calls me.
Listen to your dirty mouth, you fucking whore!
GODDAMN YOU!
MOTHERFUCKER!!
COCKSUCKER!
Just a halfacup. Hello, Dottie. I'm so sorry to hear of your troubles...
It's not fair!!
Are those pussywillows?
What did you just say?
PUSSYwillows, Dottie!
Dottie! Watch what you're doing!
I didn't do it!
And we're going right to the flea market to get another one! Misty tells me there's a whole booth of Franklin Mint stuff. Dottie, you lock up. I'll take care of poor Rosemary!
But... but... she... Rosemary, I heard her voice! It's her, I tell you, IT'S HER!
Mrs. Hinkle... do you drink?
No, I don't.
So you weren't drunk when you received those alleged obscene phonecalls?
I certainly was not!
You mean to tell me the day I came over to Mrs. Ackerman's... the day you claim you recognized my voice... you weren't drinking?
One beer with lunch is hardly "drinking".
So you do drink?
Socially... I'll have a beer.
So you admit you just lied?
Did you see her?! She just said "Fuck you" to me!
Let the record show I'm just standing here.
FUCK YOU TOO, YOU WHORE!
Mrs. Hinkle, are you insane?
NO I'M NOT, YOU MOTHERFUCKER!
Mrs. Hinkle, did you ever receive obscene telephone calls?
I certainly did.
Did you recognize the voice of the caller?
Not at first, but then I heard the same inflection in a voice at a social gathering and I put two and two together.
Who's voice was it, Dottie?
It was her! Beverly Sutphin! Sittin' right there! I'm lucky I'm not DEAD!!
Objection! Argumentative!
NO I DON'T, YOU BITCH!
Det. Bradford, I'm sorry but we don't allow gum chewing in this house.
Sorry, ma'am. We're investigating obscene phone calls and mail threats to a certain Mrs. Dottie Hinkle.
I know Dottie!
Contusions... fractures... rupture of numerous vital organs...
What a mess.
Did you drive your car to the PTA meeting yesterday, Mrs. Sutphin?
Yes, I did.
"P" as in...
...People who don't mind their own business.
Well, this magazine was found in your trash just last night... ...It's called "Chicks with Dicks".
GODDAMN YOU! THAT'S TRESPASSING!
Look at this! "Hillside Strangler gets his college degree in prison!"
That's nice.
Nice?! He should have been executed!
Sorry, son. This is a matter for adults.
Officers, I've never said the Pword out loud, much less written it down!
No woman would!
Look officers! Life doesn't have to be ugly. See the little birdie? Listen to his call. Peter Pan! Peter Pan! Peter Pan!
Chip, your ride is here.
Hey, I'm late for work. Bye, honey.
Nothing like a home cooked meal, honey.
Misty, I made your favorite sesame broccoli...
I can't stop thinking about that poor teacher. Goodnight, honey. Don't read late, we've got a big day with the birds tomorrow.
I've identified every little birdie we're going to watch tomorrow on the Eastern Shore.
Goodnight, honey.
Don't I get a kiss?
I just thought with all the sadness... you wouldn't want...
We have to concentrate on life, Eugene.
It's fine with me, Beverly. You want to, honey? You think the kids are asleep?
We can be real quiet...
I love that you're my wife.
You're not bad yourself, coocoo bird...
You bring me such peace...
Oohhhh, Eugene!
Shhhh..
Oooohhhh.
Don't wake the kids...
Ooohhhh!
Oooohhh! Yeah! Yeah!
You're hot tonight, honey... but be quiet! Shhhh! The kids!
Yeah! Oohhhh! Get it!
Ooh, honey, I'm ready! Now! Now!
Oohhhhh! Yeah! Yeah!
There's Dede! He's my favorite chickadee! He's here every morning for breakfast.
Well, honey, chickadees breed in Alaska, you know. No wonder Dede's hungry. It's a long trip all the way to Baltimore.
I'm sorry, honey. But the birds will still be there next week.
It's Ok, Eugene. I understand... I'll go fix breakfast.
Let's say grace and pray that we have the strength to understand the terrible tragedies of the last few days.
Amen to that. It's been a crazy day, hasn't it?!
Beverly! Not the Sterners!
It's a shame. But they should brush their teeth, honey.
Beverly, I've been reading all about it... is it menopause?
Oh, honey!
He goes to college with me!
Leave her alone, Chip. I think it's great she has a new beau, Beverly.
You've been working in that video shop too long.
And all that gore better hadn't be interfering with your schoolwork.
Carl makes me happy and that threatens this family, doesn't it?
Doesn't threaten me, honey. I'm happy.
I got somebody you could run over, Mother!
Misty, that's a terrible thing to say! Detectives, it's time for you to leave. My wife knows nothing about this terrible... accident.
She's gonna kill Scotty!
BOTH OF YOU! GET IN THE CAR!
Home Sweet Home! Everything's fine, kids!
I can't believe I thought my own mother was a murderess!
Hi, Hank.
MISTY SUTPHIN, GET IN THIS CAR!!
Detectives, what is this about?
I know this sounds weird, Mr. Sutphin, but the Department of Motor Vehicle's computer shows only one blue station wagon registered to a parent of any of Mr. Stubbins' pupils.
Surely you don't think Beverly was involved!
What is it, officers? My patient is waiting.
Dr. Sutphin is your wife a big reader?
Bird books mostly...
We hope so, son. And no matter what your mother is, we'll love her anyway.
Suspect's family is headed east on Calverton....
Are you Chip Sutphin?
Hold on... Yeah I am, but you'll have to speak to my agent...
Your mom killed my brother!
That's cool... hey look, you're Carl's brother, right?
That's right.
I'm sorry he's dead, but... have you signed off yet?
You mean for TV or print?
TV, man! Farrah Fawcett's interested in playing my mother!
Farrah Fawcett?! Who's gonna play my brother? Is Jason Priestly available?
Cute is not enough, Misty. You know that.
She sure can pick 'em!
Chip, honey?
Thanks, Mom.
Oh God, really! This is the limit!
Let me see!
You kids. Now Birdie, I want you to have a cookie and then run along home.
But Mom, the video's not over.
No "but mom" for you, young man. Mr. Stubbins seems to think these silly movies are interfering with your studies.
Bye, Birdie. Chip, honey... I know it's hard being a teenager but I understand... I'm your mother and I love you.
Oh Mom...
Can we watch that scene again? You know, where he rips out her heart? PLEEEASE?
Ladies and gentlemen, the perfect meatloaf!
Looks good, Mom!
I'm happy too and we want you to be happy.
I'm so happy I could shit.
CHIP! You know how much I hate the brown word!
CHIP!!
God, Mom! What's the matter?
Time to get up, that's all. You'll be late for work.
You scared me.
Tell me the truth, Mom! It's ok with me, really! Are you a serial killer?
Chip, the only cereal I know about is Rice Krispies.
In here, Mom...
But, Chip...
Get in, Mom! I have to open.
This is so silly.
Sorry, ma'am.
Do you have the musical, "Annie"?
Sure do. Did you bring back "Ghost Dad"?
There you go. I love Bill Cosby pictures.
Mrs. Jensen, I've told you. You have to rewind the tapes before returning them!
Why?
Because it's the rules!
I don't feel like rewinding it!
You see the sign! It's a dollar fine for not rewinding and this time I'm gonna charge you! $2.99 plus one dollar is $3.99!
Keep the change, you son of a psycho!
Just a little, please. Bad for the teeth.
Always the dentist.
You'd probably date him! He's cuuuute! Hey, Dad, did you ever see "Henry, Portrait of a Serial Killer?"
I certainly did not.
Well, your mother's going to PTA today. We'll see what your teacher has to say.
Aw, Mom! I hate Mr. Stubbins!
I'm Dr. Eugene Sutphin. What's the trouble, officer?
Is there a killer loose?
Carl's a jerk!
He certainly drives like a jerk.
No comment!
"Serial Mom"? WOW!
I wouldn't give ya a nickel.
Carl can't believe how much I make at swap meets.
Here we go again.
He's really cute!
Hi!
Jeeezzz!
I can't believe Mr. Stubbins is dead.
You said you hated him.
Well... he was an asshole... but he didn't deserve to die!
I'm not kidding. Carl stood me up this morning and then he was murdered at the flea market....
MURDERED?!!
Yes murdered! You said you hated your teacher yesterday and he was murdered too. I don't know... maybe Mom's nuts!
It's a cool idea, Misty! Let's make a gore movie about Mom! Better yet, a TV series!
How about Mrs. Ackerman? We both hate her! Should she be the next victim?
No! Stop it! It's not funny. Mom might do it! Someone else might die.
DAD! YOU DON'T THINK SHE DID IT??!
I DO! Mom's gone crazy!
Turn right on Timonioum Road. Hurry, Dad!
If Mom's a psycho, Scotty will still be ok, won't he?
BLOOD FEAST!
The "Citizen Kane" of gore movies.
Hi, Mom.
Hi, Mrs. Sutphin.
Oh, boy!
Mom, Mr. Stubbins is a nimrod!
Bye, Mrs, Sutphin.
Bye, birdbrain. See ya, Scotty.
Did you hear?
What happened?
This is so cool! It's just like a horror movie.
What a bitch!
It's the influence of all those family films. Right, Mom? Hey, Mom??...
Mrs. Sutphin?
Mother?
0h, shit!
You don't think...
She wouldn't...
...Jenner... Jenson, Emy Lou Jenson. 3511 Clark Avenue!
That's right up the street! Come on! Just in case!
I saw blood! And it's brown! Not red like in horror movies, but brown!!
Is MOM... in there?
No! It wasn't like gore movies at all! IT WAS REAL!
Bring her home... I guess.
No more violence... No more violence...
I woke up naked, too.
Hey, dude, you got a tattoo.
What does it say?
It says, "Ray."
Sweet. Hey, you got a tattoo, too.
Get out?! What does it say?
"Fucked me."
Aww. Cool. Dude.
"Ray!"
"Fucked me."
"Ray!"
"Fucked me."
Yo' Tommy, what up, man?
I'm totally freakin' dude. I keep having these nightmares, then I wake up screaming with these awful back spasms. I can't take it anymore, man.
Aww, man. You just need to chill out. Come on, there's this party tonight it's gonna be fun. Lot's of alcohol and honeys.
Alright, but I ain't drinking. and you're gonna have to look after me.
Don't worry, I got your back.
Sit down and join us, Cindy.
Yeah, I always wanted to watch you eat.
Now you're being rude, Shorty.
Washington is full of cornpone country pussy  just ask Jesse Jackson.
Yo son, check this out.
Dog, you look hot.
Sorry, y'all. My bad.
Shorty, why don't you say grace?
Me? Grace? Okay  Dear God 
This part removes the sense of humor.
I am Tom Green, I am Tom Green. Daddy want some sausage, sausage. Daddy want some sausage...
Father.
Not unless you have a paternity test to prove it.
Would you like to see the girl?
Soon. First, I must bless this house.
Father, are you okay?
Yeah, but you might wanna light a match before you go in there. Did you bring my bag?
Yes.
Then let us prepare.
Remember, don't ask her too many questions.
Because she will lie?
No, because her breath smells like a horse's ass.
Oh shit, you gonna take that?
What?
What she said about your mother?
No thanks.
My holy water.
Father, I think you should rest.
No, I'm fine.
Uh... I'm Father McFeely
Father, come in, please.
I'm so glad you're here.
I came as fast as I could, but at my age the little soldier needs a lot more thumpin before it starts pumpin. If I tickle my ass before...
It's okay. I understand.
How is she?
She's gotten worse, Father. She won't eat, she won't talk. The child won't even let me touch her.
Yes... Sometimes you have to give them candy.
It's the best seat in the house. I warmed it up for you.
Second best.
You never could feel your legs.
What do you know about it?!... Listen, the ghost is too powerful. The only chance we have is to use this machine. I need you to go get the others and meet us upstairs.
Alright... I might need your help.
My help?
A little bit... Give me your belt.
I'm not even wearing any drawers. Forget about a belt.
Okay, give me my belt.
You're not wearing a belt.
Alright, go to the belt store...
You mean to tell me we're dead!
I guess so.
Excuse me, sir, but the students have started to arrive. Dinner will be ready shortly.
Thanks, handyman.
I'm the caretaker, not the handyman. Nice skates. Be careful. You don't want to fall and break something.
Who's first? Anyone like a wing?
Yours, or the turkeys?
I supposed you'd like a leg. How about two?
That's it. I'm gonna put my food in your ass. I should warn you, I'm a black belt in karate.
Hello Dwight.
Hi.
What are you working on?
Just a little experiment.
Work, work, work. Is that all that you do?
Well, there's a lot riding on this project.
The Professor might have everyone else fooled, but I know who the real brains of the operation is.
You do.
That's what turns me on about you, Dwight. You're so smart.
And sexy.
Of course. So sexy.
Ooh, you hair is so soft and silky. What do you use on it?
Just a little Rogaine.
You know, Dwight, I hear you're the only one who has the key to the gate.
That's right.
What if I wanted to borrow those keys?
Oh, I couldn't do that.
She's right. We should stick together.
Alright. Come on, you guys.
I finished all the interviews.
Let me see the files.
They're on top of the bookshelf. I'll get them.
Let me help you.
I don't need your help. I'm perfectly capable.
Here you go, Professor.
Are these all the subjects?
Yes. The scored all over the Kiersey Temperament Sorter just like you asked for.
Any of them hot?
I also took the liberty of putting those with neardeath experiences on top.
Good thinking, Dwight. Traumatized coeds are a sure thing.
As I am sure you are aware, Professor, subjects who are close to death are statistically more likely to have the suggestibility required for paranormal investigation, which is, of course, why I've given them special consideration.
Look, whatever you say, kid, but the more they're hurtin', the more they need a squirtin', if you know what I mean. Ooh, I like her.
Cindy Campbell. Classic abandoned personality disorder. She seems guarded, but willing to do this.
Willing? I like that. And, this one?
That's Ray Williams. I couldn't quite figure him out, but he seemed very eager and excited when we met.
What's this?
Car accident, gun shot, multiple stabbings, a hook through the back... Where did you find these kids?
They are the survivors of the Steveston County massacre.
Fantastic. These kids are exactly the kind of catalyst needed to awaken Hell House.
How are we going to get them all up there?
I'll make it part of the class. We'll tell them they're participating in a study on sleep disorders.
And what happens when all hell breaks loose?
We record and document it. We're gonna make history, Dwight. The first documented, unrefuted evidence of life after death. The book sales alone will be worth millions. I'll be rich, and you my friend, will have one hell of a thesis paper. Now, what time is orientation?
In about fifteen minutes.
Remember, Dwight, not a word to anyone.
I have taken care of everything, including medical supplies and blood storage. We want to be safe.
Right. What about condoms?
Professor!
Hey, you're the one who brought up safety. I'm perfectly willing to go in raw.
Would you please focus?
Fine. What's all this stuff?
Well, this measures the amount of thermal imbalance within a room down to the tiniest molecular disturbances.
Are those cameras all throughout the house?
Yes, I thought that it would be best.
Even in the bathroom?
So, if one of our little chickadees is taking a shower which one of these buttons do I press to get a close up?
That one.
After dinner, you and I will take shifts throughout the night. I don't want to chance miss anything.
I'm going to change for dinner. I'll see you shortly.
Sounds good. I'm just going to run up to my room. Hop in the shower. Jump into my jogging suit, and I'll be right there.
Not to worry. There's been no reported activity in the house for over twenty years.
Let's not forget, folks, this is a study on sleep disorders.
Ah, yes, which reminds me, who here thinks they'd wake up if somebody snuck into their room and started sniffing between their legs?
My God! Is she dead?
No, they're just powder burns, thank God. They were empty. Get her upstairs.
Professor, I think you should see this.
What is it? Some tits? A beaver shot? What?
No, these are the tapes from the living room. Check this out.
The image there.
Are you sure it's not the tape?
I don't think so. It's on all the cameras, and check this out. The thermal readings inside the house dropped ten degrees when the image was recorded.
Congratulations, Dwight, it's begun.
What the hell?!
It's not what is looks like. She's having a breakdown. Help me get her to her room.
Professor, we need to talk.
What is it, Dwight?
I think we should consider cutting the experiment short.
What?
The force in this house is far greater than I anticipated. In one night I recorded cold spots, shifting magnetic fields, the E.U.P. is picking up white sounds everywhere.
That's why we came here, remember?
Yes, but I've seen the tapes. This poltergeist is becoming increasingly more violent. We all could be in danger. I say we pull the plug.
Whoa, Dwight, I say when we pull the plug. Get a hold of yourself. Dwight, we're on the verge of greatness and I'm about this close to getting laid. Now, the bus will be here on Monday. Until then no one leaves.
I can do it myself.
Yeah, I can see that. Later I want you to teach me that trick, but right now we have a job to do.
The keys. She took the keys.
Professor, is this the same house that a young girl was possessed by a demon or something?
Yes, it was reported, but never substantiated.
Professor, what's the history of this house?
I'm glad you asked. It actually makes for a pretty good bedtime story.
Alright, Cindy, what's so important?
Professor, you guys gotta see this. Dwight, come here.
Yippie! Wasn't that amazing?
It's some kind of energy field. We better record this.
Got my camera right here.
I got it!
That's fantastic. Our first phenomenon. This is going to be a great weekend. You guys better get some sleep. Dwight and I will take over from here.
I'm telling you, it was possessed.
Theo, did you see the animal?
No, I'm just saying cats are known to be very territorial animals, and it is likely it did attack, but it doesn't mean it was possessed. Maybe the two of you should sleep together.
What are you getting at, Professor?
Only that if this cat did attack, he's less likely to come back if the two of you were, let's say, together. Come on, it's college. Time for you two to experiment.
Good idea, and don't forget to give her a goodnight kiss.
There's something going on in this house. I'm not crazy.
Got a problem with that?
Yeah, bitch, give me my apple. What's gotten into you?
I take it you're not mad at me.
I wouldn't go that far.
I don't like this, this...
Why don't you shut up, Professor? Just relax.
I think she's starting to suspect something?
Who?
Oh, my God. It happened right here. She came home. She saw them.
Saw who?!
Don't touch me!!
So, do you think you made it into the class?
I don't know, but I sure hope so.
You could use the grade, huh?
Nah, I need a place to stay. So how do you like being in college?
Okay, I guess. It's so intimidating. You know being away from home, not knowing anyone. I feel like such a geek sometimes. Everyone's so cool and I'm so not.
Aww, you ain't that bad. You just need a little flava. First thing we gotta do is get you some new gear.
Huh?
Gear. You know, clothing.
Oh.
Let's start with some rhythm. Sway back and forth like this.
Left, right, left, right, crossover kick...
Now you gotta learn the correct slang.
Yo! That jacket is tight.
Yeah, now go uhn, uhn, uhn!
Uhn! Uhn! Uhn!
Yeah, you feel that? Now put it all together.
Am I cool now?
Almost... Look, I gotta bounce. I'll holla at you later.
Aww, the little bird died.
Yeah, I didn't know what else to do.
Hey, I got an idea.
That was a great idea, Shorty.
I told you it would taste just like chicken.
Did you do that?
Uh, uh.
You better go get Dwight and the Professor.
She'd have to be really pretty and I'd have to be very drunk.
I'm going to work in Washington, Cindy.
Are you?
That's where my best customers are. Marion Berry, George Bush, the Redskins. I'd like to offer you a job, Cindy. Can you type? Take dictation? Swallow balloons filled with cocaine?
Hey, y'all! What's going on?
Shorty! You're alive!! But... what about your head?
That turned out to be a good thing! It's gonna make smuggling a whole lot easier. Remember that weed? I'm about to get paid.
Father!
My child, you're alive!
Yes, we made it!
We? What do you mean... we?
Me and my friends... You see there was this ghost. He came out of nowhere and....
My child you are the only survivor.
No, my friends are right here!
I'm sorry.
Father, I don't understand. Tell me what happened?
Soon, but first I must bless this house.
Would you like me to help you pass them back?
I don't need your help.
What the hell are you doing?
Just wait, you'll see.
He won't let us go. He's going to kill us.
Quick, everyone to the lab.
What are we gonna do?
We have to destroy him.
Someone is going to have to lure him onto the platform.
I'll go.
Cool, but remember, as soon as he gets on the platform you gotta get out of there. Nobody wants to go.
Alright, let's take a vote...
Oh my God! I'm here with the...
Yes, Professor Oldman's group. Forgive me. I didn't mean to frighten you.
I'm Cindy.
I'm Hanson the caretaker.
Ummm!! They smell delicious.
Thanks. I made them by hand.
Morphine? chloroform? Horse tranquilizers? You've drugged him!
No, actually, I found him like this. That's his stuff.
Hanson, please.
Don't worry Cindy, the brain itself feels no pain.
Stop touching his brain!
Um, I'm not touching anything.
Tell me, Cindy. Would you ever tell me "Stop. If you loved me you'd stop."
Not in a thousand years.
Stop! 
Made you say it!
It was you...
Yes, it was me all along. I killed Hugh Kane and his mistress.
Both of them?
Didn't I just say that? Fucking listen. Anyway, I did it all for Carolyn. He never appreciated her, but I worshipped that woman and still she rejected me. So, I came back for you. Just like I did for Carolyn.
This can't be happening?
Now you'll be mine, Cindy.
Noooo!!!
Yes!!!!
I'm sorry, I should have been watching where I...
It's okay.
Oh, my God, Ray! What are you doing here?
It's the sequel.
Oh, right.
Listen, no need for you to worry. All that stuff that happened before is behind us. Let's just try to move on.
I am. So just do me a favor and stay away from me.
How about these buns?
Yeah, they're so warm and soft.
Come in somebody. Can you hear me?
This is Ray. What's up? Where are you?
The ghost is close. He almost got us. Buddy is hurt.
What's your location? I repeat, what's your location?
Right behind you.
Where's Shorty?
I don't know. He was right behind me a minute ago.
Ray, you saved my life. Are you okay?
Yeah, I broke my fall.
Are you okay?
I think so.
Come on. We better get you cleaned up.
No, I just heard the commotion, and when I got there I guess it was gone.
What, you think I did this to myself?
Goodnight, Cin. I'll be next door if you need me.
Thanks, I'll be fine.
Okay, I get the point.
So, whatever happened to her?
She killed herself a week before he died.
Let her go, Cin.
But he'll kill her!
That means more screen time for us.
Hey, you left your book back there.
Thanks. I'm Cindy.
So, I see you're really into spooks.
No. I never date outside my race.
I meant you're into ghosts.
Oh, yeah. I'm just curious about that kind of stuff.
So it looks like we're going to be spending the weekend together.
Yeah.
Maybe we can study together or something.
I'm sorry, Buddy. You seem really nice, but I'm just getting over a really bad relationship, and I'm not ready to start dating yet.
But, hey, maybe we can be friends.
Sure, that would be cool. Friends.
Okay. See you later, friend.
Hi Buddy.
Open chest!!!
You know, Buddy, about this friendship thing...
Yeah, it's great, isn't it. I think it's so cool... have a girl as a friend.
That's just it, Buddy. I'm a girl. You can't be so rough with me.
Then what kinda stuff can we do?
Gentle stuff like talking, sharing thoughts and ideas, secrets and past experiences. Stuff like that, you know.
It sounds gay, but guess since you're a girl it's okay, huh?
Yeah, it will be fine. I wanna check something out. Will you come with me?
Sure. We can practice talking.
Okay.
Buddy...
Wait, I'm just about to tell you the best part.
Dude, somebody's on the rag.
Shhh!
Whoa, check this out. She looks like you.
Wow, she's beautiful. You really think she looks like me?
Her hair doesn't have as many split ends at yours. Her skin isn't as oily as yours, either. Also, sometimes your eyes get kinda squinty and they look like you might have Down's Syndrome or something. Otherwise the resemblance is uncanny.
Oh yeah... another difference is she looks more sophisticated and classy. More feminine. And her tits are perfect. Not pointy and funny looking, or spaced too far apart...
Alright!
Where the hell are we?
It looks like the furnace.
Let's get outta here.
Wait, I want to check something. Give me a hand.
Well, if that's Hanson, then who's the guy with the hand?
Hugh Kane.
Yeah, I think I'm bleeding.
Come on. There's a first aid kit in the lab.
Cindy, I've been thinking about this whole friend thing. I never had a friend that cares for me the way you do... I mean, there's Ray, but he cares for me in a different way. You know, bringing me flowers. Running my bath water. And then there's nights I wake up screaming and I look over and Ray's in my bed. Holding me. And seeing that tonight might be our last night together, I was thinking...
That we should take our friendship a little further?
Yes...
Oh, Buddy, I was thinking the same thing. It might be our last night in this house. And I think we should take full advantage of it.
I was thinking the same thing.
We should act out our inner most fantasies.
Great!!!
Like, I've always wanted to walk on the moon.
Huh?
What about you, Buddy?
Well, I was hoping to get my balls licked.
He's here.
Shit!
What are we gonna do? I'm cold. I can't move, I'm so cold.
Can you feel that?
No. Try a little higher.
Feel that?
No. Keep rubbing.
Better try a little higher.
Now, come on  you know I'm not ready for that kind of 
Cindy, please! It's a matter of life and death. I'm asking you a friend.
Well... okay... but only as a friend.
Cindy, let me...
No, Buddy, I'm the one he wants.
Actually, I was going to say let me have your computer if you die.
There's something I really want to share with you.
There's something I want to share with you too. Here, smell this.
Cindy, about this whole friendship thing...
Yeah, I know, I just love having a guy for a friend.
I know, but I've been thinking 
I know, but I've been thinking 
Listen to me I 
Listen to me I 
Look, what I'm trying to say 
Look, what I'm trying to say 
Stop it! I'm just trying to say I think we should take our friendship to the next level.
Oh.
I don't want to be your friend like this anymore.
Then what are we going to do?
You know, walking on the beach, holding hands, kissing, making love...
That sounds kinda gay, but since you're a guy, I guess it's okay.
Let's get a hot dog.
Hey, look out, a bee!
Oh, Buddy, I've never had someone be so protective of me!
That's what your man is supposed to do.
Hey, wanna' share a soda?
Oh, Buddy, that's so romantic.
Yeah. Can I borrow five bucks?
What should we get?
I don't care. You pick.
Hot dogs.
Hello Brenda.
Hello Ray.
Shhh... It's okay.
Ray, have you been here all this time?
I just wanted to make sure you were okay.
I'm fine. Just a few bruises.
So, I guess I can go now.
No, stay.
You sure?
Yeah, I think I'll feel better sleeping in the arms of a strong man.
Yeah, me too.
Are you okay? I thought I heard screaming.
Oh, I'm fine... just clowning around.
He's right. I should go first.
He's so brave.
Where's Shorty?
I don't know. He was right behind us. Wait here. I'll be right back.
Ray, run faster.
Okay.
This house was built in 1898 by a man named Archibald Keaton as a gift to his wife, Cora.
Yes, I feel their spirits. Cora... Keaton... I am here to communicate...
No, they sold the house in 1920 to a millionaire, Uriah Bloodworth.
Yes, of course, Uriah. I feel his evil presence.
No, he lost the house after the stock market crash.
But he could still be haunting the house. He's angry that he had to leave.
He's not dead, you idiot. He lives in Florida. Now, shut up and let me finish.
We already know each other. Hey, Brenda.
Hey, Cindy. Your friend needs help.
Actually, I just met her. This is Alex.
Oh my god. Madam Elsa, my psychic, told me I would meet somebody whose name starts with a letter of the alphabet today.
Really? That's amazing.
Hey girl, that jacket is slamming.
Thanks.
You better be careful. I heard some girl got her ass whooped and jacket stolen earlier today. Hey, what class do we have next?
Psychology.
Ouch!!
Brenda, are you okay? Come sit.
No, you don't understand. It's here in these statues...
Help!
Now, why that bitch gotta bring that shit this way? I hope she didn't see me.
Oh my God! We're dead!
It would've just been you, if you would've kept your mouth shut.
It's coming!
What?! What is it, a monster?!
Hey, look, I'm Wilma Flintstone.
Hey, I have an idea...
Oh my God, the ghost has Buddy! Brenda do something!
Okay.
Cindy, what's going on?
It's Hanson, he's evil. Let's get him!
And remember that trip we took to Africa? That safari was so wonderful. Me, you... best of friends... forever.
Uh, Alex, we've only know each other one day.
Oh... I guess I'll die now.
Okay... maybe that would be best.
Oh, remember that time I got my training bra and you 
Never happened!
My favorite memory was when we 
Would you die already?!
Hey, Brenda.
Do I know you?
Well, actually, we've never met officially, but I bumped into you at the cafeteria and you were so sweet. I said, "I'm sorry," and you said, "Watch it, white bitch, or I'll put my size eight in your ass." I thought how cool. I wear a size eight, too. Anyway, this is my best friend, Cindy.
Me, too. 101?
In room "302" at ten o'clock?
That's it.
Oh, this is too much. I'm gonna have to play these numbers. Remind me to pick up a Lotto ticket.
Are you okay?
Yeah, I'm fine. I just broke up with my boyfriend, that's all.
That's always tough. How long were you together?
Well, we never made it official, so I guess we were technically never really boyfriend and girlfriend, but I was seeing him in school. I saw him at the mall about six months ago and I was too nervous to introduce myself so I followed him to his car, and jotted down the license plate number. It was registered to his mother, so I went to her house. She was so nice. I mean, she seemed like she would be nice 'cuz I never really spoke to her. I just waited til she went to work then I climbed in through her window and borrowed her phone book. I say borrowed because I'm going to give it back one day. But anyway, I called everyone in it til I found her son. He wasn't home when I called so I left this message how much in love I was with him. I was, and how I wanted to have his children. Just really opening up, and he never called back. I'd call and call, and anyway, six months and two restraining orders later I just decided I deserved better. What about you? Do you have a boyfriend?
No, I haven't dated in a while. My last boyfriend's...
Brenda was right. There's more to the story than the Professor told us. I found a secret room. It had all these news clippings about Hugh Kane. He was a very evil man.
Ah, they just don't know you the way I do.
I found a picture of his wife.
Wife?!
Oh, he was a widower. Why didn't you say that?... Don't worry, sweetie, I can whip up a new batch in a flash.
I think he wants me.
Ha! Right bitch!
No, I won't let you do it.
Alex, what are you doing?
Shut up, you slut. You think you can take him from me? Well, over my dead body.
Pleased to meet you, ma'am. We found your trunk. Were you doin' the driven'?
I was at first. Then I was hanging on. Are you going far?
Is that your kind of reading, Steve?
I can't read, Ma'am. I just look at the pictures.
Your brother's always looked after you, hasn't he?
Since I can remember, Ma'am.
But he just never troubled to have you get any schooling?
It wasn't Clay's fault. We've been moving around most all the time  mebbe when we get the ranch and stay in one place I can learn my letters then 
Don't you even know your letters?
Would you like to learn them?
I sure would.
Maybe I could start you out.
That'd be swell. You know, you're an awful lot different than I thought you'd be.
You're so nice.
Did someone say I wasn't nice?
Oh no. Nobody said nothing to me. Only I got the idea that  well Clay and me used to be walking through town and there was your place and through the window I could see you dancing, but Clay always took me over to the other side of the street.
Good night, Miss Wells.
Good night, Steve.
Gee, I can't.
Why not? You went farther than that last time.
I'm too old for it, Miss Wells... That's for little kids.
Don't be silly... Nobody's too old to learn.
Okay. ABC  DEF  GHI 
Aren't we stayin'?
No. We're not stayin' 
What comes after Z?
That's the end of the line.
Then I know my alphabet.
From A to Z. All you have to do now is figure out what they mean put together in words.
And that's tough, isn't it?
Without someone to teach you, it's tough.
 and even if I do learn to read, what use'll it be? I'm goin' to live on a ranch!
There's plenty of use for reading  you'll see.
Unicorn... What in heck's that?
Unicorn  a kind of animal 
What do they look like?
Hmmm... sort of like a horse  with a horn in the center of its forehead.
Horses with horns! Huh! Do we have 'em in Nevada?
No.
How about California?
Would they be good to eat?
Kind of tough, I guess... But you're not liable to hunt them  I don't think there's any alive now, anyways  and I'm not sure but I don't think there ever were...
Then if they wasn't alive, how can they be an animal?...
An' if you can't hunt 'em and even if you could they'd be tough, what's the use of knowin' how to spell them?
You don't read to fill your stomach... Poetry, for instance. All the poems in the world wouldn't fill you half as much as a bowl of eatmeal  but they make you feel good.
I feel good anyways.
Well, Steve?
Now I know what a unicorn is, what do we do next?
Nobody's gonna catch him sleeping. Don't worry about him.
Oh, I wasn't worrying. I saw him saddling up and thought he was ready to leave.
Sometimes not knowin' how to read has its points. You can't read books so you look at people and figure 'em out.
And you've got me all figured out?
Sure.
Like when you were standin' there looking after Clay. I knew right off what you were thinking. Because I've been watching you.
You were supposed to be reading words.
I was doin' both. Here.
Don't pay any attention to him. That's his way and I've found he's sure easy to get along with. I don't recollect him havin' hit me more'n a couple of times and I guess I had it comin'.
But you're his brother.
He'll treat his wife just as good. Maybe better. Ever see him use a bull snake on the mules like other wranglers?
She was only teasin'.
Oh, sure.
Let me do that.
For the last ten miles I've been trying to figure out how to sleep sitting up. I'm getting to the point where I don't think there's any place named Sonora.
It's a long ways yet. I figure we ought to camp. She's tired.
You stretch out. I'll fix something to eat.
Thanks, Steve.
You don't know what it is to be sorry.
Steve 
Goodnight.
Goodnight, Miss Wells.
If you need me, I'll be 
Why, yes. They're all I need...
Mine's gone lame. Take a look at him.
He dropped a shoe. You shouldn't be ridin' him.
Put on another one.
That won't help the stone bruise. You ain't been around horses much, looks like.
Will you quit gabbin' and do what you're told.
What are you doin' 
Lookin' around.
We got to get movin'.
What for?
Because there's a man I want to see.
He can wait. Let's stay here until morning.
I said let's go.
One night more won't matter. Your friend'll be there. Anyway I don't think so much of the idea of prowling around his ranch. He knows you're out so he ain't going to sit still for it.
I said I had a guy to see and I'm going to see him.
We got company. Female company.
Yeah, we sure have.
How do you know who we are?
Everybody knows 
Who brought you here?
You said somebody was comin' back  who's comin' back?
Stop it 
Clay Phillips.
Where is he?
Up the trail.
How far up the trail?
I don't know  I don't know.
Maybe you're going about this all wrong. Why not try telling him we'll do the cookin' and mendin' and washin' for him. That usually works. Yeah, but suppose he took us up on it. Where would we be?
Maybe in Sonora.
You think that's all we busted  You should see...
Now where's she goin'? 
With a milk pail in one hand and a marriage license in the other.
Why didn't you say you wanted to get married back in Aspen. I told the man in Sonora there were four of us. If only three show up, he might call the whole deal off. We've got to stick together. Like we've always done.
It isn't like this was the first place we were ever thrown out of.
That's not what's worryin' me. Why didn't she tell us? Maybe we could have done somethin'  gone somewhere else  puttin' a poor sick kid through this 
Quit worryin' about Elaine.
I tried my best, but these things take time.
And we're running out of that.
There's still tomorrow morning.
How long do you think we'll have to stay here?
Until Pa gets around to driving us to Minden.
We don't want to go there.
No we don't. But that's where we're going. From Minden we take a stage to Reno, then another one over to Auburn and another one to Placerville. Then it's a day's trip to Sonora.
Clay could save us an awful lot of time.
He certainly could. About a month.
What are you waiting for? Do something.
You're not giving up?
How many ways can a man say no.
Maybe I better start working on him.
You'd think he'd do it for Elaine's sake, at least...
Go on. Have another try at him.
What's the use.
Please. Maybe he'll take a good look at you and stop thinking so much about his horses.
We might as well start a fire.
Go ahead. Get in training for the pioneer life. I'm finding the nearest body of water and climbing into it.
Give it back to him. We're leavin'.
Maybe you are. I'm not.
 Gaslights and a dance floor and a big bar. Cash registers with bells and a couple of boys with armbands just to keep 'em ringing. What do you think of that?
Sounds fine. Only that isn't how it's going to be.
I'm sure of this. But not of you. You won't open any joint. I've been watching you change. You're mad now and you think you can change back. But you can't. You'll end up making beds in a boarding house.
That's it then.
Mary, Honey. I talked too much, like always  he thinks you told Elaine the things I told her.
I don't care what he thinks.
Until you came along we were going to Sonora.
What do you know about that. Did you sell your place?
Not exactly. They decided gambling and dancing were bad for people. Can I make it?
Depends on how good you drive.
There you are. Now take it easy and you'll be all right.
Thank you, Mr. Graham.
Aspen doesn't want us Mr. Graham. They threw us out.
They shouldn't have done that.
We tried to point that out. But there were some pretty nosey citizens who wouldn't listen to reason. They said Aspen had outgrown us. It's all right to play poker in your own home but not in a saloon.
I knew something would happen when they started puttin' up fences and passin' laws.
Goodbye and thanks.
I don't like to see you go.
I saw your fire and dropped by to say hello.
Well, say it.
What's the matter  restless?
Yes, people make me restless.
Even women?
There aren't any women here.
I suppose that's your wagon in the river.
Some people who went by this way lost it. Two men and some women. They packed their stuff on horses and went on.
And you're all alone.
Yeah.
Suppose I take a look.
Go ahead.
When I ask questions, I like to hear answers.
They went on like I told you.
You got no business snoopin' around 
Me snoopin'? I came down here to take a bath.
That something I shouldn't see?
No. But it's mine and I didn't want anyone foolin' with it.
What is it?
Just a thing I was workin' on.
The way you act, it must be something pretty secret.
Go on. Take your bath. I'll beat it.
You wouldn't have a smoke on you, would you?
That sure smells good.
I like it.
Up here in the hills, a man gets a hankering to smell powder.
Then why stay in the hills.
You're sure there's more where this came from?
Plenty more. And somewhere up there's the lode, the rock rotten with it.
I figure we'll get along just fine.
Well cheer, why don't you? No more responsibilities, Mary. Marcia  Elaine  me  all taken care of. Down there feeding horses and raising kids, you won't have a thing to worry about.
Helen  why don't you and Mary go on with Clay?
He won't take us. Don't you want us around?
Of course I do  but it'd be better for you  and the house is kind of small 
If you're worried about Mary and me talkin' too much, don't. No matter how many questions your old man asks. We know how to keep our mouths shut.
It isn't that 
Don't talk  eat  we want to get you well quick as we can so we can all get out of here.
But I want to stay.
Drink this and stop being silly. Why would anyone want to live in this place. You might as well be dead and buried. Nothing to do but look at mountains. In a week you'd be talking to yourself. Maybe that's what got you started in the first place.
I'm not going anywhere. I'm staying here where I belong.
Not if I know Mary. When she rides into Sonora, you'll be with her. And mighty glad to be there after this. I don't see how you stood it as long as you did.
Stop it  stop it.
Darling  now I've got you all upset.
Go away  please.
That's right  you go back to sleep. Tomorrow when you feel better things will look a whole lot different. Don't you worry about anything  Mary's going to talk things over with your folks 
She mustn't  don't you let her 
There, there. Don't you upset yourself 
If she says anything to them I'll kill her.
You can't stay here. There's snakes and it's cold and you'll just get sicker.
I don't care.
Suppose that Lednov was to have found you, instead of me. Why you wouldn't have had a chance.
I said I didn't care.
What's botherin' you, anyway?
Runnin' off and worryin' people. Makin' it tougher on Clay than it is already.
Don't ask me because I won't tell you! I won't tell anybody! Go away!
Don't act so  crazy.
I'm sorry. Let's go.
That's a good girl.
You can light the lamp. I'm sure glad it's you. We were afraid those killers might come back.
Three men on matched roans?
Yeah, how did you know?
The whole state's lookin' for 'em. And they're lookin' for me.
I'm sorry about this, Mr. Wyatt. I didn't know who she was.
All right, you didn't know.
I can't take her with me.
Nobody asked you to.
You're not bein' quite fair.
What's there to be fair about?
I'm sorry about this, Mr. Wyatt. I didn't know you had a daughter.
All right, you didn't know.
I can't take her with me.
Nobody asked you to.
You're not bein' quite fair.
What's there to be fair about?
How does she draw?
A little hot.
That's right.
I don't see no sense to makin' people leave town if they don't want to leave.
Who's Lednov?
A man I used to know.
You might tell a fellow things, 'specially if the fellow's your brother, seems to me.
Like what?
Like why you're buyin' a whole slew of 30 30 shells all of a sudden.
I don't want to run short.
You never said this Lednov's name before, that I can remember.
No call to. That jail looked pretty solid to me. How's she feel?
Nice.
But it's leaded up and anyway a 22's no good for real huntin'. You shoot a man with a 22 and where are you?
The thing to do is stick to rabbits.
What was he in jail for?
You sure worry that bone. He killed a fellow.
In a fight?
The other fellow wasn't even lookin'.
This is an awful nice gun. Certainly come in handy when there's men around who shoot people that aren't lookin'.
You must be plenty worried about Lednov sneakin' up on us. Think he will?
Yes.
At the ranch maybe?
Maybe at the ranch. Maybe sooner than that.
Do you have to be so closemouthed? I'm your brother. And I'm ridin' with you. Remember?
All right. I'll tell you.
That's Lednov! We come along here.
And meet him there.
Unless the sheriff gets too close and he holes up.
Sure a lot of guys lookin' for Lednov.
Yeah  and Lednov's only lookin' for one man. Me.
Why?
He doesn't like me. What you eatin'?
Lednov.
They sure must have been travelin'. This keeps up we can start a store.
Things get tough next winter, you'll have somethin' to wear.
I've got eleven horses.
Morgan blood. The beat in Nevada. Clay and me have a place on the Toulomne River. We're going to raise horses like these.
Where'd they go?
Swimming.
There was only three of them at first. I guess I lost my head.
How'd you happen to miss?
They were quite a ways off and the wind was blowin'. I didn't have them to aim.
Good thing you didn't.
A man can't help gettin' excited once in a while.
That's right, Steve.
Can I have my gun back?
Sure. You'll find it under the wagon seat. Like I said before, a twenty two's more your size.
It's all right with me if she teaches you, but I don't want you forgettin' your job.
I won't again.
Okeh, I was wrong. But you can't expect a fellow who never saw Lednov and never heard his name until a while ago to do too much worryin'. You've been sorta close mouthed about him.
I guess I have. You were pretty little when they locked him up. I don't suppose you even remember that time I was gone two months.
Sure I remember. You went to Mexico lookin' for cattle.
You remember Jeff Rawson?  We used to go fishing and hunting with him when you were so high.
Sure I do. Went off down to Mexico or something...
That's what I told you then. Only he didn't. Lednov killed him.
Oh... that's the time you went away.
I caught up with Lednov in Nogales. He didn't like the idea of comin' back across the border but he came. I turned him over to the sheriff and  that's the story.
Maybe you shoulda killed him.
Maybe I should. But I was never much on killin'. Anyway, he moved too quick and I just got him through the shoulder. Looks pretty peaceful up ahead.
Yeah, it does.
But you never can tell. Why don't you get that new rifle out of the wagon?
Leaving them here when we could just as well take them. We got plenty of room in the wagon. And  and  they cook and drive the mules. They don't bother anybody.
Finished, son?
There's only two of them now.
Don't go arguing with your teacher.
I'm not, but there's some of it I don't see any sense to.
There's a lot of things I don't see any sense to. But make up your mind. Learn to read or   go back and watch the horses.
Want the wagon unloaded, Clay?
Just the grub box and bed rolls.
I didn't stop to think, Clay.
You better start.
All right, I hurt your feelings. But you know better than to go lightin' fires.
That ain't why. I just figure it's about time to start runnin' my own life.
Come on. We got a couple hours to eat and get some sleep.
I'll eat when I'm good and ready.
Kind of feeling your oats this morning. I haven't laid a hand on you for quite a while, but that doesn't mean you're too old.
What makes you think you're so almighty? Telling people what to do and how to act when you don't even know how yourself.
Go on, hit me.
Sit down and eat. Till I say the word, you're doing what you're told.
You oughta say you're sorry  that's what you oughta do.
You keep your nose out of my life, young fella.
Maybe I haven't lived as long as you have, but I know a sight more about people and I wouldn't talk to a mule like you talked to her and, if I did, I'd say how sorry I was. I'd be man enough to do that.
I said keep your nose out of my life. No kid is going to tell me how to run it.
You think you're so slmighty  smart  Who are you to sit up there and say nobody's good enough for you, like you said yesterday  just because a man kisses a woman 
You know what she asked me?
I don't care what she asked you.
She told me not to fight with you anymore. She said it wasn't your fault, but  I figure different...
It is so your fault and... and I guess maybe when we hit the ranch... you andme better...
You want to split up? 
Half of them are mine.
You'll get your share. Go on. I don't want you around.
What did you come back for?
Like I told you, half those horses are mine. I'm makin' sure they get to the ranch safe. So let's quit arguing and do whatever you figure on doin'.
Is that the only reason you came back?
Sure. What other reason would there be?
I just wondered. Let's go.
How's that?
Kind of sore.
You'll live.
Guess maybe I'm old enough to hold my own in a fight, huh?
Yeah  but don't make a habit of it.
So  maybe I'm old enough to tell you how to run your life?
I guess so  but don't make a habit of it.
Well, then, I know it takes three  four weeks for you to come round to admit when you're wrong... But by that time she's liable to be in China...
I  lost something.
It wouldn't happen to be this...
Stretch out under the seat, Miss.
Which ranch?
How's that?
I can't 
You've got to  don't you understand  they want me with them and they'll fix it so I have to go 
No they won't.
Drop yours. I'm gunshy.
Then don't come sneakin' around a man's camp.
A fellow sees a fire go out all of a sudden, he don't take chances. My name's Clayton and I'm looking for someone.
I found their surrey 
So did I. They were in it.
She's a friend  took off this morning sort of sudden while I wasn't around.
Here's a man says he's looking for you girls.
Hello, Miss Wells.
Anybody hurt?
No. We came down the hill a little fast and... ...the wheel broke. Can you fix it for us?
What's the matter with her?
Too much excitement. How about the surrey. Can you fix it?
This must have been in the family a long time.
It was a gift from the citizens of Aspen. I'm Mary Wells.
And this is Helen Carter.
I'm Clay Phillips. My brother Steve.
Yes, ma'am.
As far as  Sonora?
Just about.
They won't be riding in the wagon.
Did you ever try taking a bunch of horses over Sonora Pass? It's quite a job.
You can't leave us here.
Course I can't. I'll give you a lift to the first ranch.
What good is it going to do us to go to some ranch?
You can stay here if you like.
We have to get to Sonora. There are jobs waiting for us there. We'll pay you for your trouble.
I'm not running a stage line, ma'am, and I can't take a chance on losing the horses.
Our kind of women?
You'll have to drive  except down hill.
What's the matter with her?
Too much excitement. Or maybe it's just the heat. How about the surrey. Can you fix it?
And this is Helen Carter.
I'm Clay Phillips. My brother Steve.
So am I.
It's a nice place owned by an old couple named Wyatt.
Thanks. And isn't there something we can do about supper  or making the beds?
Steve and me, we use a saddle for a pillow and roll up in a tarp.
But you eat, don't you?
Mostly, we open a can of beans and boil some coffee.
Where do you keep the can opener?
In the grub box. Toward morning the dew gets kind of heavy so maybe you better fix up a bed under the wagon. Spread some bunch grass under the tarp and the ground won't be so hard.
Of course it'll work. You can get another girl to fill out the act.
And look at it this way. How about Jim  it puts him in a sort of tough spot.
If you were in his shoes would you take one of us home?
I'm not in his shoes, so leave me out of it.
Steve maybe you better get some wood for the fire.
Would you, Mr. Phillips?
Go on, there's a good boy.
There's a nice boy.
Yeah.
That why you always took him on the other side of the street?
Like what?
Like sticking his nose into other people's business.
Get back to the horses. They're straggling.
He's learning his letters.
Yeah. While the horses wander all over the country.
Learnin' to read has nothing to do with the right or the wrong side of the street.
Are the horses stragglin' or aren't they?
They're stragglin'.
His letters will keep.
But the nearest shelter's the Wyatt ranch and that's maybe five hours away.
Can we get a doctor at that ranch?
No, Ma'am, we can't. We can get a roof and a fire and maybe Mrs. Wyatt knows something about taking care of sick people.
So that was why she tried to run away.
Didn't you know she had a father and mother out here?
I didn't know anything about her except she wanted a job because some man had left her stranded. I couldn't leave her in the street. Let's go.
Hold on.
We can't stay here!
It's a long walk back to Aspen.
Coffee?
No, thanks. I hope we won't be a burden to them.
I hope so, too.
I'm sorry, but that's how it's got to be.
I suppose it is.
And it's not only because the trip's a tough one 
You don't have to explain. Did I tell you how grateful I am for what you've done?
I couldn't leave you sitting by the road.
You could have treated us like they did in Aspen. No. You wouldn't do a thing like that  it isn't in you to be mean or cruel.
I hope you get everything you want out of life 
Thanks.
You've earned it  the horse ranch on the Toulomoe  the girl in the spotted gingham.
The who?
You should know. She's in your dream.
Ever since you've looked after Steve you've had the dream  a ranch on the river  good grass, good water, barn corral and house  that part you've shared with Steve. The girl in gingham you plan sneakin' in when he isn't looking.
Go on. Tell me more about her.
She wears this gingham dress  cooks popovers  makes jam in season  makes her own soap from pig fat and wood ashes and has cheeks the color of red apples.
I'll make the soap myself.
But the rest is right.
Will she be dark or fair?
Blonde as a new mop. And beautiful as the girl on a feed store calendar.
He knows his alphabet.
That's fine.
Are we leaving?
It's too light yet.
Better go on back and get some more sleep. You'll need it later on.
You're not going out to look for them?
No, I'm not. All I want 'em to do is keep ahead of us  a long way ahead. So I'm riding up the line aways to pick us out a new trail.
Don't you trust me?
Not on this trail, I don't. I've been over it before. Anyway, you ought to be pretty sleepy. Why don't you climb in back.
Why did you change your mind about bringing us along?
Why do you think?
I don't know. I thought I did. Now I'm not sure. I thought it had something to do with me.
Oh, it did. It had a great deal to do with you.
You know so much about me  figure it out.
So that's it  You think I was making fun of your girl in gingham.
You wouldn't do a thing like that, would you?
Yes. But  that was the other night. Now  I don't think I would.
You should have. I don't like leaving things unfinished.
Maybe it's better that way.
You don't mean that Clay.
Tell me, darling.
What?
What does a man usually tell a girl?
What did you expect? Speeches I don't mean?
I don't expect anything. A minute ago I hadn't cuite waked up.
I'm awake now. Go on. Say what you want to say. I'll listen.
If it's pretty speeches you want, you won't be hearing them. Even when I mean 'em, they don't come easy.
Save 'em for the girl in gingham. Just tell me I'm not good enough for you. Go on. Say a woman like me can't change.
All right  it's said!
Then let's get started. The sooner I get to Sonora, the better I'll like it.
No, I'm not all right. I'm soaked and I hit myself against that rock.
I suppose that's my fault.
All my clothes 
That's right  worry about your clothes 
Go on, take it. Then you can't spend the rest of the trip expecting to get paid.
There won't be any rest of the trip. Over the hill is a stage road and when we hit it you get dumped into the first stage that comes along. So keep your money. You'll need it for the fare. I'm fed up with you. I was fed up with you before we started.
So grab yourself some sleep while you have the chance.
If you want to go on, I can make it all right.
Like I said, I was thinkin' of the horses.
I won't have you fighting over me.
I'm sorry.
Maybe it isn't going to Sonora, but it's going somewhere, which is all right with me.
It's going to Sonora.
Fine  maybe I'll see you there sometime.
Some of 'em you didn't mean but most of 'em you did. I don't blame you because I understand your way of thinking and why you think that way. You want your women on pedestals. But they have to be born on 'em  they can fall off but they can't climb back up.
I can't help how I think. You're trained a certain way when you're a kid and you can't change.
I can't change either. Not unless somebody wants me enough to give me a hand.
Hurry up.
I'm fool enough to believe that one of these days somebody will. Somebody who wants me as I am will maybe walk into the place where I'm working and take me out of there.
Maybe they will.
Goodbye. Thanks for the lift.
Goodbye, Mary.
By the way, if you ever go past the Wyatt ranch, have another talk with Elaine.
Thanks for taking over.
Thanks for loading me on the stage. I know now why you did it.
Like I said, women get in the way sometimes.
Where you going?
To the other side of the street.
That job you were talkin' about, did you get it yet?
Why?
Because... well, you said you wanted a man to think enough of you to walk in the place you were working and take you out of there... tonight I was sort of tied up with Steve... but tomorrow I figured on doing just that.
I haven't got the job yet.
You don't know how good it is to see you.
Maybe you won't feel that way after I tell you what I stopped in for.
Tell them to come on in.
But I'm going to have to leave 'em here. They're  well they're not the sort of people you're used to.
It doesn't matter who they are.
And one of 'em is sick.
Why didn't you say so. Go right out and get her. Ed. build the fire up.
Hello Graham  Joe  Mr. Gardner.
Graham's got something to tell you might interest you.
You should be. Maybe Lednov heard about that Sonora ranch of yours.
Maybe he did.
We're going to look for him. Want to come along?
I've got eleven horses to get over the mountains before snow catches me and covers the feed.
And that's more important than finding Lednov?
Like you said, maybe he knows where my ranch is. If he does, he'll be waiting on the porch.
Who shot who?
Nobody. The light was bad.
What's she doin' runnin' around the country at night.
I wouldn't know. Did you ask her?
All I can get out of her is she don't care about livin'.
Look of things, she doesn't.
Yeah. Keep a closer eye on her  And him. Shootin' going on, we'll never find Lednov.
Do you know what this is? It's the world's smallest violin, playing just for the waitresses.
You don't have any idea what you're talking about. These people bust their ass. This is a hard job.
So's working at McDonald's, but you don't feel the need to tip them. They're servin' ya food, you should tip em. But no, society says tip these guys over here, but not those guys over there. That's bullshit.
Waitressing is the number one occupation for female noncollege graduates in this country. It's the one job basically any woman can get, and make a living on. The reason is because of tips.
Fuck all that.
Gun shot.
Oh that's just fucking great! Where's Brown?
Dead.
Goddamn, goddamn! How did he die?
How the fuck do you think? The cops shot him.
Oh this is bad, this is so bad. Is it bad?
As opposed to good?
This is so fucked up. Somebody fucked us big time.
You really think we were set up?
You even doubt it? I don't think we got set up, I know we got set up! I mean really, seriously, where did all those cops come from, huh? One minute they're not there, the next minute they're there. I didn't hear any sirens. The alarm went off, okay. Okay, when an alarm goes off, you got an average of four minutes response time. Unless a patrol car is cruising that street, at that particular moment, you got four minutes before they can realistically respond. In one minute there were seventeen blue boys out there. All loaded for bear, all knowing exactly what the fuck they were doing, and they were all just there! Remember that second wave that showed up in the cars? Those were the ones responding to the alarm. But those other motherfuckers were already there, they were waiting for us. You haven't thought about this?
I haven't had a chance to think. First I was just trying to get the fuck outta there. And after we got away, I've just been dealin' with him.
Well, you better start thinking about it. Cause I, sure as fuck, am thinking about it. In fact, that's all I'm thinking about. I came this close to just driving off. Whoever set us up, knows about this place. There could've been cops sitting here waiting for me. For all we know, there's cops, driving fast, on their way here now.
Let's go in the other room...
What the fuck am I doing here? I felt funny about this job right off. As soon as I felt it I should said "No thank you", and walked. But I never fucking listen. Every time I ever got burned buying weed, I always knew the guy wasn't right. I just felt it. But I wanted to believe him. If he's not lyin' to me, and it really is Thai stick, then whoa baby. But it's never Thai stick. And I always said if I felt that way about a job, I'd walk. And I did, and I didn't, because of fuckin' money!
What's done is done, I need you cool. Are you cool?
I'm cool.
Splash some water on your face. Take a breather.
Want a smoke?
Why not?
Okay, let's go through what happened. We're in the place, everything's going fine. Then the alarm gets tripped. I turn around and all these cops are outside. You're right, it was like, bam! I blink my eyes are they're there. Everybody starts going apeshit. Then Mr. Blonde starts shootin' all the 
That's not correct.
What's wrong with it?
The cops didn't show up after the alarm went off. They didn't show till after Mr. Blonde started shooting everyone.
As soon as I heard the alarm, I saw the cops.
I'm telling ya, it wasn't that soon. They didn't let their presence be known until after Mr. Blonde went off. I'm not sayin' they weren't there, I'm sayin' they were there. But they didn't move in till Mr. Blonde became a madman. That's how I know we were set up. You can see that, can't you, Mr. White?
Look, enough of this "Mr White" shit 
Don't tell me your name, I don't want to know! I sure as hell ain't gonna tell ya mine.
You're right, this is bad. How did you get out?
Shot my way out. Everybody was shooting, so I just blasted my way outta there.
Tagged a couple of cops. Did you kill anybody?
A few cops.
No real people?
Uhuh, just cops.
Could you believe Mr. Blonde?
That was one of the most insane fucking things I've ever seen. Why the fuck would Joe hire somebody like that?
I don't wanna kill anybody. But if I gotta get out that door, and you're standing in my way, one way of the other, you're gettin' outta my way.
That's the way I look at it. A choice between doin' ten years, and takin' out some stupid motherfucker, ain't no choice at all. But I ain't no madman either. What the fuck was Joe thinkin'? You can't work with a guy like that. That motherfucker's unstable. What do you think? Do you think he panicked, or ya think he's just triggerhappy?
I think he's a sick fuckin' maniac! We're awful goddamn lucky he didn't tag us, when he shot up the place. I came this fucking close  to taking his ass out myself. Everybody panics. When things get tense, everybody panics. Everybody. I don't care what your name is, you can't help it. It's human nature. But ya panic on the inside. Ya panic in your head. Ya give yourself a couple a seconds of panic, then you get a grip and deal with the situation. What you don't do, is shoot up the place and kill everybody.
What you're supposed to do is act like a fuckin' professional. A psychopath is not a professional. You can't work with a psychopath, 'cause ya don't know what those sick assholes are gonna do next. I mean, Jesus Christ, how old do you think that black girl was? Twenty, maybe twentyone?
Did ya see what happened to anybody else?
Me and Mr. Orange jumped in the car and Mr. Brown floored it. After that, I don't know what went down.
At that point it became every man for himself. As far as Mr. Blonde or Mr. Blue are concerned, I ain't got the foggiest. Once I got out, I never looked back.
What do you think?
What do I think? I think the cops caught them, or killed 'em.
Not even a chance they punched through? You found a hole.
Yeah, and that was a fucking miracle. But if they did get away, where the fuck are they?
You don't think it's possible, one of them got a hold of the diamonds and pulled a 
Nope.
How can you be so sure?
I got the diamonds.
Where?
I got 'em, all right?
Where? Are they out in the car?
No, they're not in the car. No, I don't have them on me. Ya wanna go with me and get 'em? Yes, we can go right now. But first listen to what I'm telling you. We were fuckin' set up! Somebody is in league with the cops. We got a Judas in our midst. And I'm thinkin' we should have our fuckin' heads examined for waiting around here.
That was the plan, we meet here.
Then where is everybody? I say the plan became null and void once we found out we got a rat in the house. We ain't got the slightest fuckin' idea what happened to Mr. Blonde or Mr. Blue. They could both be dead or arrested. They could be sweatin' 'em, down at the station house right now. Yeah they don't know the names, but they can sing about this place. I mean, that could be happening right now. As we speak, the cops could be in their cars, drivin' here this minute.
I swear to god I'm fuckin' jinxed.
What?
Two jobs back, it was a four man job, we discovered one of the team was an undercover cop.
No shit?
Thank god, we discovered in time. We hadda forget the whole fuckin' thing. Just walked away from it.
So who's the rat this time? Mr. Blue? Mr. Blonde? Joe? It's Joe's show, he set this whole thing up. Maybe he set it up to set it up.
I don't buy it. Me and Joe go back a long time. I can tell ya straight up, Joe definitely didn't have anything to do with this bullshit.
Oh, you and Joe go back a long time. I known Joe since I was a kid. But me saying Joe definitely couldn't have done it is ridiculous. I can say I definitely didn't do it, cause I know what I did or didn't do. But I can't definitely say that about anybody else, 'cause I don't definitely know. For all I know, you're the rat.
For all I know, you're the rat.
Now you're using your head. For all we know, he's the rat.
That kid in there is dying from a fuckin' bullet that I saw him take. So don't be calling him a rat.
Look, asshole, I'm right! Somebody's a fuckin' rat. How many times do I hafta say it before it sinks in your skull?
I gotta take a squirt, where's the commode in this dungeon?
Go down the hall, turn left, up those stairs, then turn right.
So, is he dead or what?
He ain't dead.
So what is it?
I think he's just passed out.
He scared the fuckin' shit outta me. I thought he was dead fer sure.
He will be dead fer sure, if we don't get him to a hospital.
We can't take him to a hospital.
Without medical attention, this man won't live through the night. That bullet in his belly is my fault. Now while that might not mean jack shit to you, it means a helluva lot to me. And I'm not gonna just sit around and watch him die.
Well, first things first, staying here's goofy. We gotta book up.
So what do you suggest, we go to a hotel? We got a guy who's shot in the belly, he can't walk, he bleeds like a stuck pig, and when he's awake, he screams in pain.
You gotta idea, spit it out.
Joe could help him. If we can get in touch with Joe, Joe could get him to a doctor, Joe could get a doctor to come and see him.
Assuming we can trust Joe, how we gonna get in touch with him? He's supposed to be here, but he ain't, which is making me nervous about being here. Even if Joe is on the up and up, he's probably not gonna be that happy with us. Joe planned a robbery, but he's got a blood bath on his hands now. Dead cops, dead robbers, dead civilians... Jesus Christ! I tend to doubt he's gonna have a lot of sympathy for our plight. If I was him, I'd try and put as much distance between me and this mess an humanly possible.
Before you got here, Mr. Orange was askin' me to take him to a hospital. Now I don't like turning him over to the cops, but if we don't, he's dead. He begged me to do it. I told him to hold off till Joe got here.
Well Joe ain't gettin' here. We're on our own. Now, I don't know a goddamn body who can help him, so if you know somebody, call 'em.
I don't know anybody.
Well, I guess we drop him off at the hospital. Since he don't know nothin' about us, I say it's his decision.
Well, he knows a little about me.
You didn't tell him your name, did ya?
I told him my first name, and where I'm from.
Why!
I told him where I was from a few days ago. It was just a casual conversation.
And what was tellin him your name when you weren't supposed to?
He asked.
We had just gotten away from the cops. He just got shot. It was my fuckin' fault he got shot. He's a fuckin' bloody mess  he's screaming. I swear to god, I thought we was gonna die right then and there. I'm tryin' to comfort him, telling him not to worry, he's gonna be okay, I'm gonna take care of him. And he asked me what my name was. I mean, the man was dyin' in my arms. What the fuck was I supposed to tell him, "Sorry, I can't give out that information, it's against the rules. I don't trust you enough."? Maybe I shoulda, but I couldn't.
Oh, I don't doubt is was quite beautiful 
Don't fuckin' patronize me.
One question: Do they have a sheet on you, where you told him you're from?
Of course.
Well that's that, then. I mean, I was worried about mug shot possibilities already. But now he knows: what you look like, what your first name is, where you're from and what your specialty is. They ain't gonna hafta show him a helluva lot of pictures for him to pick you out. That's it right, you didn't tell him anything else that could narrow down the selection?
If I have to tell you again to back off, me an you are gonna go round and round.
We ain't taking him to a hospital.
If we don't, he'll die.
And I'm very sad about that. But some fellas are lucky, and some ain't.
That fuckin did it!
You wanna shoot me, you little piece of shit? Take a shot!
Fuck you, White! I didn't create this situation, I'm just dealin' with it. You're acting like a first year fuckin' thief. I'm actin like a professional. They get him, they can get you, they get you, they get closer to me, and that can't happen. And you, you motherfucker, are looking at me like it's my fault. I didn't tell him my name. I didn't tell him where I was from. I didn't tell him what I knew better than to tell him. Fuck, fifteen minutes ago, you almost told me your name. You, buddy, are stuck in a situation you created. So if you wanna throw bad looks somewhere, throw 'em at a mirror.
He got it in the belly. He's still alive, but won't be for long.
Enough! You better start talkin' to us, asshole, cause we got shit we need to talk about. We're already freaked out, we need you actin freaky like we need a fuckin' bag on our hip.
Is that supposed to be funny?
We don't think this place is safe.
This place just ain't secure anymore. We're leaving, and you should go with us.
Both of you two assholes knock it the fuck off and calm down!
So you wanna git bit, huh?
Cut the bullshit, we ain't on a fuckin' playground! I don't believe this shit, both of you got ten years on me, and I'm the only one actin like a professional. You guys act like a bunch of fuckin' niggers. You ever work a job with a bunch of niggers? They're just like you two, always fightin', always sayin' they're gonna kill one another.
You said yourself, you thought about takin' him out.
Then. That time has passed. Right now, Mr. Blonde is the only one I completely trust. He's too fuckin' homicidal to be workin' with the cops.
You takin' his side?
Fuck sides! What we need is a little solidarity here. Somebody's stickin' a red hot poker up our asses and we gotta find out whose hand's on the handle. Now I know I'm no piece of shit... And I'm pretty sure you're a good boy... And I'm fuckin positive you're on the level. So let's figure out who's the bad guy.
I told ya he'd be pissed.
What are you gonna do about him?
He seems all right now, but he went crazy in the store.
This is what he was doin'.
...Hey, I know what I'm talkin' about, black women ain't the same as white women.
There's a slight difference.
Okay, Mr. Expert. If this is such a truism, how come every nigger I know treats his woman like a piece of shit?
I'll make you a bet that those same damn niggers who were showin' their ass in public, when their bitches get 'em home, they chill the fuck out.
Not these guys.
Yeah, those guys too.
Who cares what your name is? Who cares if you're Mr. Pink, Mr. Purple, Mr. Pussy, Mr. Piss...
Oh that's really easy for you to say, you're Mr. White. You gotta coolsounding name. So tell me, Mr. White, if you think "Mr. Pink" is no big deal, you wanna trade?
Have you guys been listening to K BILLY's super sounds of the seventies weekend?
Yeah, it's fuckin' great isn't it?
Can you believe the songs they been playin'?
No, I can't. You know what I heard the other day? "HeartbeatIt's Lovebeat," by little Tony DeFranco and the DeFranco Family. I haven't heard that since I was in fifth fuckin' grade.
When I was coming down here, I was playin' it. And "The Night the Lights Went Out in Georgia" came on. Now I ain't heard that song since it was big, but when it was big, I heard it a milliontrillion times. I'm listening to it this morning, and this was the first time I ever realized that the lady singing the song, was the one who killed Andy.
C'mon, throw in a buck.
Uhuh. I don't tip.
Whaddaya mean you don't tip?
I don't believe in it.
You don't believe in tipping?
I don't even know a Jew who'd have the balls to say that. So let's get this straight. You never ever tip?
I don't tip because society says I gotta. I tip when somebody deserves a tip. When somebody really puts forth an effort, they deserve a little something extra. But this tipping automatically, that shit's for the birds. As far as I'm concerned, they're just doin' their job.
I'd go over twelve percent for that.
Look, I ordered coffee. Now we've been here a long fuckin' time, and she's only filled my cup three times. When I order coffee, I want it filled six times.
These ladies aren't starvin' to death. They make minimum wage. When I worked for minimum wage, I wasn't lucky enough to have a job that society deemed tipworthy.
Ahh, now we're getting down to it. It's not just that he's a cheap bastard 
Hey, just cancel that shit right now! You're hurt. You're hurt really fucking bad, but you ain't dying.
All this blood is scaring the shit outta me. I'm gonna die, I know it.
Oh excuse me, I didn't realize you had a degree in medicine. Are you a doctor? Are you a doctor? Answer me please, are you a doctor?
No, I'm not!
Saythegoddamnwords: You're gonna be okay!
I'm okay.
Correct.
Just hold on buddy boy. Hold on, and wait for Joe. I can't do anything for you, but when Joe gets here, which should be anytime now, he'll be able to help you. We're just gonna sit here, and wait for Joe. Who are we waiting for?
Joe.
Bet your sweet ass we are.
I ain't going anywhere. I'm right here. I'm not gonna leave ya.
Larry, I'm so scared, would you please hold me.
Look, I don't wanna be a fly in the ointment, but if help doesn't come soon, I gotta see a doctor. I don't give a fuck about jail, I just don't wanna die.
You're not gonna fucking die, all right?
I wasn't born yesterday. I'm hurt, and I'm hurt bad.
It's not good...
Hey, bless your heart for what you're trying to do. I was panicking for a moment, but I've got my senses back now. The situation is, I'm shot in the belly. And without medical attention, I'm gonna die.
I can' take you to a hospital.
Fuck jail! I don't give a shit about jail. But I can't die. You don't have to take me in. Just drive me up to the front, drop me on the sidewalk. I'll take care of myself. I won't tell them anything. I swear to fucking god, I won't tell 'em anything. Look in my eyes, look right in my eyes. Iwon'ttellthemanything. You'll be safe.
Lie back down, and try to 
I'm going to die! I need a doctor! I'm begging you, take me to a doctor.
What happened?
Blonde went crazy. He slashed the cop's face, cut off his ear and was gonna burn him alive.
Uhuh, uhuh, what's I tell ya? That sick piece of shit was a stone cold psycho.
You could've asked the cop, if you didn't just kill him. He talked about what he was going to do when he was slicing him up.
Joe, you want me to shoot him for you?
Shit, you shoot me in a dream, you better wake up and apologize.
So, talk.
We think we got a rat in the house.
What's this guy's problem?
What's my problem? Yeah, I gotta problem. I gotta big problem with any triggerhappy madman who almost gets me shot!
What're you talkin' about?
That fuckin' shooting spree in the store.
Fuck 'em, they set off the alarm, they deserve what they got.
You almost killed me, asshole! If I had any idea what type of guy you were, I never would've agreed to work with you.
You gonna bark all day, little doggie, or are you gonna bite?
What was that? I'm sorry, I didn't catch it. Would you repeat it?
I said: "Are you gonna bark all day, dog, or are you gonna bite."
Follow you where?
Down to my car.
Why?
It's a surprise.
For what, the cops?
Nice Guy Eddie.
You talked to Nice Guy Eddie? Why the fuck didn't you say that in the first place?
You didn't ask.
Hardyfuckinhar. What did he say?
Stay put. Okay, fellas, take a look at the little surprise I brought you.
Because this guy's a fucking psycho. And if you think Joe's pissed at us, that ain't nothing compared to how pissed off I am at him, for puttin' me in the same room as this bastard.
You see what I been puttin' up with? As soon as I walk through the door I'm hit with this shit. I tell 'm what you told me about us stayin' put and Mr. White whips out his gun, sticks it in my face, and starts screaming "You motherfucker, I'm gonna blow you away, blah, blah, blah."
He's the reason the place turned into a shooting gallery. What are you, a silent partner? Fuckin' tell him.
I told 'em not to touch the alarm. They touched it. I blew 'em full of holes. If they hadn't done what I told 'em not it, they'd still be alive.
That's your excuse for going on a kill crazy rampage?
I don't like alarms.
I know.
You do?
Your name's Freddy something.
Freddy Newendyke.
Frankie Ferchetti introduced us once, about five months ago.
Shit. I don't remember that at all.
I do. How do I look?
That fucking bastard! That fucking sick fucking bastard!
Marvin, I need you to hold on. There's officers positioned and waiting to move in a block away.
What the fuck are they waiting for? That motherfucker cut off my ear! He slashed my face! I'm deformed!
And I'm dying. They don't know that. All they know is they're not to make a move until Joe Cabot shows up. I was sent undercover to get Cabot. You heard 'em, they said he's on his way. Don't pussy out on me now, Marvin. We're just gonna sit here and bleed until Joe Cabot sticks his fuckin' head through that door.
Okay ramblers, let's get to rambling. Wait a minute, who didn't throw in?
Mr. Pink.
Mr. Pink? Why?
He don't tip.
He don't tip? You don't tip? Why?
He don't believe in it.
He don't believe in it? You don't believe in it?
Nope.
Shut up! Cough up the buck, ya cheap bastard, I paid for your goddamn breakfast.
Aren't you?
I don't have the slightest fuckin' idea what you're talkin' about.
What's that?
I found this old address book in a jacket I ain't worn in a coon's age. Toby what? What the fuck was her last name?
Give me this fucking thing.
What the fuck do you think you're doin'? Give me my book back!
I'm sick of fuckin' hearin' it Joe; I'll give it back when we leave.
Whaddaya mean, give it to me when we leave, give it back now.
For the past fifteen minutes now, you've just been droning on with names. "Toby... Toby... Toby... Toby Wong... Toby Wong... Toby Chung... fuckin' Charlie Chan." I got Madonna's big dick outta my right ear, and Toby Jap Idon'tknowwhat, outta my left.
What do you care?
When you're annoying as hell, I care a lot.
Give me my book.
You gonna put it away?
I'm gonna do whatever I wanna do with it.
Well, then, I'm afraid I'm gonna have to keep it.
No, she did it. She killed the cheatin' wife, too.
Who gives a damn?
I'll take care of this, you guys leave the tip. And when I come back, I want my book back.
Sorry, it's my book now.
Blonde, shoot this piece of shit, will ya?
What's she doin' now?
She hooked up with Fed McGar, they've done a couple a jobs together. Good little thief. So, explain the telegram.
Fiveman job. Bustin' in and bustin' out of a diamond wholesaler's.
Can you move the ice afterwards? I don't know nobody who can move ice.
Not a problem, got guys waitin' for it. But what happened to Marsellus Spivey? Didn't he always move your ice?
He's doin' twenty years in Susanville.
What for?
Bad luck. What's the exposure like?
Two minutes, tops. It's a tough two minutes. It's daylight, during business hours, dealing with a crowd. But you'll have the guys to deal with the crowd.
How many employees?
Around twenty. Security pretty lax. They almost always just deal in boxes. Rough uncut stones they get from the syndicate. On a certain day this wholesaler's gettin' a big shipment of polished stones from Israel. They're like a way station. They are gonna get picked up the next day and sent to Vermont.
No, they're not.
What's the cut, poppa?
Juicy, junior, real juicy.
What the fuck are you talking about?
That piece of shit. Workin' with the cops.
Joe, I don't know what you think you know, but you're wrong.
Like hell I am.
Joe, trust me on this, you've made a mistake. He's a good kid. I understand you're hot, you're superfuckin' pissed. We're all real emotional. But you're barking up the wrong tree. I know this man, and he wouldn't do that.
You don't know jack shit. I do. This rotten bastard tipped off the cops and got Mr. Brown and Mr. Blue killed.
He was the only one I wasn't a hundred percent on. I should have my fucking head examined for goin' forward when I wasn't a hundred percent. But he seemed like a good kid, and I was impatient and greedy and all the things that fuck you up.
That's your proof?
You don't need proof when you got instinct. I ignored it before, but not no more.
Don't worry, Eddie. Me and Larry have been friends a long time, he ain't gonna shoot. We like each other too much.
Joe, if you kill that man, you die next. Repeat, if you kill that man, you die next!
Larry, I'm gonna kill him.
Goddamn you, Joe, don't make me do this!
Larry, I'm askin' you to trust me on this.
Don't ask me that.
I'm not askin', I'm betting.
Because you paid for the breakfast, I'm gonna tip. Normally I wouldn't.
Whatever. Just throw in your dollar, and let's move. See what I'm dealing with here. Infants. I'm fuckin' dealin' with infants.
But he's OK. If he wasn't OK, he wouldn't be here. Okay, let me introduce everybody to everybody. But once again, at the risk of being redundant, if I even think I hear somebody telling or referring to somebody by their Christian name... ...you won't want to be you. Okay, quickly. Mr. Brown, Mr. White, Mr. Blonde, Mr. Blue, Mr. Orange, and Mr. Pink.
Why am I Mr. Pink?
Cause you're a faggot, alright?
Why can't we pick out our own colors?
I tried that once, it don't work. You get four guys fighting over who's gonna be Mr. Black. Since nobody knows anybody else, nobody wants to back down. So forget it, I pick. Be thankful you're not Mr. Yellow.
Yeah, Mr. Pink sounds like Mr. Pussy. Tell you what, let me be Mr. Purple. That sounds good to me, I'm Mr. Purple.
You're not Mr. Purple, somebody from another job's Mr. Purple. You're Mr. Pink.
Nobody's trading with anybody! Look, this ain't a goddamn fuckin' city counsel meeting! Listen up Mr. Pink. We got two ways here, my way or the highway. And you can go down either of 'em. So what's it gonna be, Mr. Pink?
Jesus Christ, Joe. Fuckin' forget it. This is beneath me. I'm Mr. Pink, let's move on.
Mr. Blue's dead?
Dead as Dillinger.
Toby... who the fuck is Toby? Toby... Toby... think... think... think...
It's not about a nice girl who meets a sensitive boy. Now granted that's what "True Blue" is about, no argument about that.
Hey, fuck all that, I'm making a point here. You're gonna make me lose my train of thought.
Oh fuck, Toby's that little china girl.
Then one day she meets a John Holmes motherfucker, and it's like, whoa baby. This mother fucker's like Charles Bronson in "The Great Escape." He's diggin' tunnels. Now she's gettin' this serious dick action, she's feelin' something she ain't felt since forever. Pain.
Chew? Toby Chew? No.
It hurts. It hurts her. It shouldn't hurt. Her pussy should be BubbleYum by now. But when this cat fucks her, it hurts. It hurts like the first time. The pain is reminding a fuck machine what is was like to be a virgin. Hence, "Like a Virgin."
Wong?
Fuck you, wrong. I'm right! What the fuck do you know about it anyway? You're still listening to Jerry fuckingVale.
Not wrong, dumb ass, Wong! You know, like the Chinese name?
How's freedom kid, pretty fuckin' good, ain't it?
It's a change.
Ain't that a sad truth. Remy Martin?
Sure.
Take a seat.
Who's your parole officer?
A guy named Scagnetti. Seymour Scagnetti.
How is he?
Fuckin' asshole, won't let me leave the halfway house.
Never ceases to amaze me. Fuckin' jungle bunny goes out there, slits some old woman's throat for twenty five cents. Fuckin' nigger gets Doris Day as a parole officer. But a good fella like you gets stuck with a ballbustin' prick.
I just want you to know, Joe, how much I appreciate your care packages on the inside.
What the hell did you expect me to do? Just forget about you?
I just wanted you to know, they meant a lot.
It's the least I could do Vic. I wish I coulda done more. Vic. Toothpick Vic. Tell me a story? What're your plans?
Well, what I wanna do is go back to work. But I got this Scagnetti prick deep up my ass. He won't let me leave the halfway house till I get some piece of shit job. My plans have always been to be part of the team again.
That's great, guy, thanks a bunch. When do you think you'll need me for real work?
Well, it's kinda a strange time right now. Things are kinda 
...Her brother usually goes with her, but he's in county unexpectedly.
What for?
Traffic tickets gone to warrant. They stopped him for something, found the warrants on 'im, took 'im to jail. She doesn't want to walk around alone with all that weed. Well, I don't wanna do this, I have a bad feeling about it, but she keeps askin' me, keeps askin' me, finally I said okay 'cause I'm sick of listening to it. Well, we're picking this guy up at the train station.
Jesus Christ!
You can do some crazy things with it.
Let's go over it. Where are you?
I stand outside and guard the door. I don't let anybody come in or go out.
Mr. Brown?
Mr. Brown stays in the car. He's parked across the street till I give him the signal, then he pulls up in front of the store.
Mr. Blonde and Mr. Blue?
Crowd control. They handle customers and employees in the display area.
Myself and Mr. Pink?
You two take the manager in the back and make him give you the diamonds. We're there for those stones, period. Since no display cases are being fucked with, no alarms should go off. We're out of there in two minutes, not one second longer. What if the manager won't give up the diamonds?
When you're dealing with a store like this, they're insured up the ass. They're not supposed to give you and resistance whatsoever. If you get a customer or an employee who thinks he's Charles Bronson, take the butt of your gun and smash their nose in. Drops 'em right to the floor. Everyone jumps, he falls down, screaming, blood squirts out his nose. Freaks everybody out. Nobody says fuckin' shit after that. You might get some bitch talk shit to ya. But give her a look, like you're gonna smash her in the face next. Watch her shut the fuck up. Now if it's a manager, that's a different story. The managers know better than to fuck around. So if one's givin' you static, he probably thinks he's a real cowboy. So what you gotta do is break that sonofabitch in two. If you wanna know something and he won't tell you, cut off one of his fingers. The little one. Then you tell 'im his thumb's next. After that he'll tell ya if he wears ladies underwear. I'm hungry, let's get a taco.
I'm sorry.
What? Snap out of it!
Just hold on buddy boy.
I'm sorry. I can't believe she killed me...
Say "hello" to a motherfucker who's inside. Cabot's doing a job and take a big fat guess who he wants on the team?
This better not be some Freddy joke.
Nice Guy. When we got to the bar...
...What bar?
The Boots and Socks in Gardena. When we got there, I met Joe and a guy named Mr. White. It's a phony name. My name's Mr. Orange.
You ever seen this motherfucker before?
Who, Mr. White?
Yeah.
No, he ain't familiar. He ain't one of Cabot's soldiers either. He's gotta be from outta town. But Joe knows him real well.
How can you tell?
The way they talk to each other. You can tell they're buddies.
Did the two of you talk?
Me and Mr. White?
Yeah.
A little.
What about?
The Brewers.
The Milwaukee Brewers?
Yeah. They had just won the night before, and he made a killing off 'em.
Well, if this crook's a Brewers fan, his ass has gotta be from Wisconsin. And I'll bet you everything from a diddleeyed Joe to a damnedifI know, that in Milwaukee they got a sheet on this Mr. White motherfucker's ass. I want you to go through the mugs of guys from old Milwaukee with a history of armed robbery, and put a name to that face.
What kinds questions did Cabot ask?
Where I was from, who I knew, how I knew Nice Guy, had I done time, shit like that.
Didja use the commode story?
Fuckin' A. I tell it real good, too.
What's this?
It's a scene. Memorize it.
What?
A undercover cop has got to be Marlon Brando. To do this job you got to be a great actor. You got to be naturalistic. You got to be naturalistic as hell. If you ain't a great actor you're a bad actor, and bad acting is bullshit in this job.
But what is this?
It's a amusing anecdote about a drug deal.
What?
Something funny that happened to you while you were doing a job.
I gotta memorize all this shit?
It's like a joke. You remember what's important, and the rest you make your own. The only way to make it your own is to keep sayin' it, and sayin' it, and sayin' it, and sayin' it, and sayin' it.
I can do that.
The things you gotta remember are the details. It's the details that sell your story. Now this story takes place in this men's room. So you gotta know the details about this men's room. You gotta know they got a blower instead of a towel to dry your hands. You gotta know the stalls ain't got no doors. You gotta know whether they got liquid or powdered soap, whether they got hot water or not, 'cause if you do your job when you tell your story, everybody should believe it. And if you tell your story to somebody who's actually taken a piss in this men's room, and you get one detail they remember right, they'll swear by you.
Tell me more about Cabot.
He's a cool guy. A real nice, real funny, real cool guy.
We were set up, the cops were waiting for us.
What? Nobody set anybody up.
The cops were there waitin' for us!
Bullshit.
Hey, fuck you man, you weren't there, we were. And I'm tellin' ya, the cops had that store staked out.
Okay, Mr. Detective, who did it?
What the fuck d'you think we've been askin' each other?
And what are your answers? Was it me? You think I set you up?
I don't know, but somebody did.
Nobody did. You assholes turn the jewelry store into a wild west show, and you wonder why cops show up.
Brown's dead, we don't know about Blue.
Nobody saw what happened to Mr. Blue?
I take it this is the bastard you told me about. Why the hell are you beating on him?
So he'll tell us who the fuck set us up.
Would you stop it with that shit! You beat on this prick enough, he'll tell ya he started the Chicago fire. That don't necessarily make it so. Okay, first things fucking last, where's the shit? Please tell me somebody brought something with them.
I got a bag. I stashed it till I could be sure this place wasn't a police station.
Well, let's go get it. We also gotta get rid of all those cars. It looks like Sam's hot car lot outside. You stay here and babysit Orange and the cop. You two take a car each, I'll follow ya. You ditch it, I'll pick you up, then we'll pick up the stones. And while I'm following you, I'll arrange for some sort of a doctor for our friend.
What does it matter who stays with the cop? We ain't lettin' him go. Not after he's seen everybody. You should've never took him outta your trunk in the first place.
We were trying to find out what he knew about the set up.
There is no fuckin' set up! Look, this is the news. Blondie, you stay here and take care of them two. White and Pink come with me, 'cuz if Joe gets here and sees all those fucking cars parked out front, he's going to be as mad at me as he is at you.
Go ahead and laugh, you know what I mean. What a while bitch will put up with, a black bitch won't put up with for a minute. They got a line, and if you cross it, they fuck you up.
I gotta go along with Mr. Pink on this. I've seen it happen.
The black Beverly Hills. I knew this lady from Ladora Heights once. "Hi, I'm from Ladora Heights, it's the black Beverly Hills."
It's not the black Beverly Hills, it's the black Palos Verdes. Anyway, this chick, Elois, was a maneater upper. I bet every guy who's ever met her has jacked off to her at least once. You know who she looked like? Christie Love. 'Member that TV show "Get Christie Love"? She was a black female cop. She always used to say "You're under arrest, sugar."
I was in the sixth grade when that show was on. I totally dug it. What the fuck was the name of the chick who played Christie Love?
Pam Grier.
No, it wasn't Pam Grier, Pam Grier was the other one. Pam Grier made the movies. Christie Love was like a Pam Grier TV show, without Pam Grier.
What the fuck was that chick's name? Oh this is just great, I'm totally fuckin' tortured now.
Well, whoever she was, Elois looked like her. So one night I walk into the club, and no Elois. Now the bartender was a wetback, he was a friend of mine, his name was Carlos. So I asked him "Hey, Carlos, where's Lady E tonight?" Well apparently Lady E was married to this real piece of dog shit. I mean a real animal. And apparently he would so things to her.
He's right about the ear, it's hacked off.
Let me say this out loud, just to get it straight in my mind. According to you, Mr. Blonde was gonna kill you. Then when we came back, kill us, grab the diamonds, and scram. That's your story? I'm correct about that, right?
Daddy, did ya see that?
What?
Guy got me on the ground, tried to fuck me.
Now Vic was tellin' me, he's got a parole problem.
Really? Who's your P.O.?
We can work this out, can't we?
This isn't all that bad. We can give you a lot of legitimate jobs. Put you on the rotation at Long Beach as a dock worker.
Didn't I tell ya not to worry? Vic was worried.
Me and you'll drive down to Long Beach tomorrow. I'll introduce you to Matthews, tell him what's going on.
Nuts. We got a big meeting in Vegas coming up. And we're kinda just gettin ready for that right now.
Let Nice Guy set you up at Long Beach. Give ya some cash, get that Scagnetti fuck off your back, and we'll be talking to ya.
Daddy, I got an idea. Now just hear it out. I know you don't like to use any of the boys on these jobs, but technically, Vic ain't one of the boys. He's been gone for four years. He ain't on no one's list. Ya know he can handle himself, ya know you can trust him.
Daddy, I'm sorry, I don't know what's happening.
That's okay, Eddie, I do.
Holy shit, this guy's all fucked up!
No shit, he's gonna fuckin' die on us if we don't get him taken care of.
Jesus Christ, give me a fuckin' chance to breathe. I got a few questions of my own, ya know.
You ain't dying, he is.
I'll call somebody.
Who?
A snake charmer, what the fuck d'you think. I'll call a doctor, take care of him, fix 'm right up. No, where's Mr. Brown and Mr. Blue?
Let me tell you guys a story. In one of daddy's clubs there was this black cocktail waitress named Elois.
Elois?
Yeah, Elois. E and Lois. We called her Lady E.
Where was she from, Compton?
No. She was from Ladora Heights.
I don't know what he did to her, but she got even.
Was he all pissed off?
I don't buy it. It doesn't make sense.
It makes perfect fuckin' sense to me. Eddie, you didn't see how he acted during the job, we did.
The motherfucker killed Vic.
How do you know all this?
Joe, you're making a terrible mistake I can't let you make.
Stop pointing your fuckin' gun at daddy!
How ya doin', Toothpick?
Fine, now.
I'm sorry man, I shoulda picked you up personally at the pen. This whole week's just been crazy. I've had my head up my ass the entire time.
Funny you should mention it. That's what your father and I been talkin' about.
That I should've picked you up?
No. That your head's been up your ass. I walk through the door and Joe says "Vic, you're back, thank god. Finally somebody who knows what the fuck he's doing. Vic, Vic, Vic, Eddie, my son, is a fuck up." And I say "Well, Joe, I coulda told you that." "I'm ruined! He's ruining me! My son, I love him, but he's taking my business and flushing it down the fuckin' toilet! " I'm not tellin' tales out of school. You tell 'im Joe. Tell 'im yourself.
You fuckin' wish.
You tried to fuck me in my father's office, you sick bastard. Look, Vic, whatever you wanna do in the privacy of your own home, go do it. But don't try to fuck me. I don't think of you that way. I mean, I like you a lot 
Eddie, if I was a pirate, I wouldn't throw you to the crew.
No, you'd keep me for yourself. Four years fuckin' punks in the ass made you appreciate prime rib when you get it.
I might break you, Nice Guy, but I'd make you my dog's bitch. You'd be suckin' the dick and going down on a mangy Tbone hound.
Now ain't that a sad sight, daddy, walks into jail a white man, walks out talkin' like a nigger. It's all that black semen been shootin' up his butt. It's backed up into his brain and comes out of his mouth.
Seymour Scagnetti.
Scagnetti? Oh shit, I hear he's a motherfucker.
He is a motherfucker. He won't let me leave the halfway house till I get some piece of shit job.
You're coming back to work for us, right?
I wanna. But I gotta show this asshole I got an honesttogoodness job before he'll let me move out on my own. I can't work for you guys and be worried about gettin' back before ten o'clock curfew.
I don't wanna lift crates.
You don't hafta lift shit. You don't really work there. But as far as the records are concerned, you do. I call up Matthews, the foreman, tell him he's got a new guy. You're on the schedule. You got a timecard, it's clocked in and out for you everyday, and you get a pay check at the end of the week. And ya know dock workers don't do too bad. So you can move into a halfway decent place without Scagnetti thinkin "what the fuck." And if Scagnetti ever wants to make a surprise visit, you're gone that day. That day we sent you to Tustin. We gotta bunch of shit you needed to unload there. You're at the Taft airstrip pickin' up a bunch of shit and bringing it back. Part of your job is goin' different places  and we got places all over the place.
Alone at last.
Now where were we?
I told you I don't know anything about any fucking set up. I've only been on the force eight months, nobody tells me anything! I don't know anything! You can torture me if you want 
Thanks, don't mind if I do.
Your boss even said there wasn't a set up.
First off, I don't have a boss. Are you clear about that?
I asked you a question. Are you clear about that?
Yes.
Now I'm not gonna bullshit you. I don't really care about what you know or don't know. I'm gonna torture you for awhile regardless. Not to get information, but because torturing a cop amuses me. There's nothing you can say, I've heard it all before. There's nothing you can do. Except pray for a quick death, which you ain't gonna get.
Watch your mouth, man. It's Christmas.
I'M NOT NICK!
Start talkin
Who the hell made this map.
That's what it looks like!
Since when? What the hell is this room?
Map is kinda dirty, Monster...
They changed the layout.
Without having them hit the alarms.
I got an idea on that one. Once you're up there, you gotta hold those guards down till some backup can get there. There's a security camera room that videotapes everything. You've gotta destroy every last one of those tapes.
That was my card, pop! My card! You hit for my card!
I... sorry, Mister...
That was my king!
Well...sorry...
POP! That was My card!
But... I had a five...
You're hitting for MY cards!
Switch seats with me.
What? No...
You're taking my money. Switch seats with me. Switch seats with me if you're not taking my money 
I'm ninetytwo years old 
Then get yourself another table! You're hitting Santa's cards and you're taking Santa's money!
There is no other table 
THEY'LL OPEN ONE!
What's the first thing, man? What's the first thing you're gonna do?
Haven't thought about it.
Hell you haven't.
Get to thinking about it, it won't happen.
We walk outta here, we hit that road, what's the first thing you're gonna do.
Ain't there yet.
Three days, man.
Not yet.
Fuckin' Christmas, man. Fuckin, Christmas on the outs.
Hot chocolate.
What?
Get a hot mug of chocolate. First thing I'm gonna do.
And a slice of pecan pie, right?
And some pecan pie.
She's gonna be out there, man. Right there. Right there waiting.
Yeah.
Gonna walk out of this shitstorm and right into her arms.
Yeah.
Got us a motel out Highway 5, bringing her own damn sheets, you read that part? Silk damn sheets. Lock ourselves in the whole week, drinking wine, taking baths, man, see if they got those room service steaks... anything I want to do. Remember when she wrote that? Anything I want...
Yeah. Fuckin' Christmas.
Why you gotta say a thing like that.
I'm just saying.
Why you gotta. We were gonna give you a ride someplace, man. Now I just don't know.
I'm just talking.
Fuck your hot chocolate, Rudy.
For twentyfive, she sounds pretty mature.
Yeah. You grow up in Detroit, you get matured real quick.
What if she sees you, man, sees what you look like... and it's not there. You just don't do it for her.
Me and her got a connection. Read this part. Read the part about stuffing her stocking.
She's using a new perfume.
No, I think that's just oranges. She writes here she's eating oranges.
Oh.
Shoulda written to that magazine, Rudy. I'm gonna walk outta here, walk right into a relationship. Not some onenighter, man... a relationship. You? You're gonna walk outta here with bus fare. Searching for the drunkest skirt in the room.
Mornin', gorgeous. More egg nog?
Shoulda written, Rudy...
All I want... is to make it to Sidnaw, and sit down for Christmas dinner. Watch some ball with my old man, sleep in my old bed, and have leftovers for bout six months.
Thought you hated Sidnaw.
Just taste that Christmas turkey.
Thought you hate your old man.
Five years, Nicky. Five years. I just want to go home.
Don't look like he missed the sunlight.
Pinscher told me Alamo thinks I'm the one ratted on him beating up Cree. Since I was there, I saw it, he thinks I got him sent to solitary.
Aw, Rudy.
So maybe after our week beneath the sheets, we'll head down to Motor City for New Year's. She says her roommate's skipping town for a few days, have the place to ourselves. Remember how her brother's a truck driver down there? I'm thinking he might be able to help get me some work.
What, working security?
No, I'm through with that shit. Ashley's right. Gotta start doing something I got a stake in. Get a business going.
I don't know, I've seen the business world.
Hotwiring cars, Rudy, does not qualify as a small business. Chop shop consultant; doesn't work on a resume.
Just a roach, Zook.
Good for you. Protein.
Rudy, don't move 
Two days, we got two days! Don't do nothing. Don't touch nothing 
Don't move, Rudy!
Standing right here, man!
GUARD! GUARD!
Alamo...
GUARD!!!
Jesus, Rudy 
Take it, man! You're all right! Hold it in! GUARD!
Oh, fuck, Rudy... oh Jesus...
GUARD!!!
Ash... Ashley...
No, man! No, no, no!
Tell her... I'll be there ...
You're GONNA be there! We're getting outta here! TAKE IT!
Tell Ashley... I...
YOU TELL HER!
...be with her...
NO!!!
...for Christmas...
NICK!!!
Millie here used to serve drinks to these gunrunning truckers, real big talkers, talking bout a real score one day. I was in the Mountain, man, what the hell, why not let her get friendly with 'em? Let her tell 'em an idea she had, 'bout writing guys in prison. Getting one who could show 'em a sure thing.
She set them up. All of them.
Why not have her pretend to find me? Pretend to write me and reel me in? Tell her new truckerman she'd pose as some sister of his named Ashley?
And you set me up.
Always wanted to rob that casino, Rudy. Way back when I worked there. What better way than to get some guys to rob it for me.
Paid the Alamo ten bucks to put the shiv in me. He's a lifer, what does he care. Paid a hospital guard fifty to put out the story I was dead. Once the wound healed up... Got out of the Mountain this morning. And tonight I'm a rich man.
How'd you know I'd do it.
Do what?
Walk outta there and tell her I was you.
Hell, you never needed to convince Ashley you were me. Just the dumb fucking truckers. I figured I'd talked enough about the Tomahawk in the pen for you to get by 
Talked about the old man's weapons stash, probably forgot I'd remember
Hm. Well. They'd have killed you if you weren't me, Rudy. We knew you'd start convincing 'em soon enough.
They had the weapons and the willpower. We just gave them their inside man.
You gave them me.
I gave them me. Said some nice things about me, Rudy. I appreciate it. But don't worry. I do love her. And she loves me. You had that right all along.
Monsters in the gelatin...
It's a roach, guy 
There are monsters... ...in the gelatin...
Oh, man 
THERE ARE MONSTERS IN THE GELATIN!
Fuckin, Zookerman 
THERE ARE MONSTERS! IN THE GELATIN! THERE ARE MONSTERS! IN THE GELATIN!
...but I got a girl to be with, rum pumpumpum...
Hi, Nick.
You want that for here or to go?
I been in Iron Mountain for two years, truck driver. I do one more crime, I'm back there for good, so fuck you and fuck your sister and fuck your trucker friends. You want to hear about some goddamn job of mine? I want some hotgoddamnchocolate.
Buffet. Whaddya think it is?
Buffet is by the goddamn bar! What the hell kind of map is this?!
Having romance problems, Romeo?
Not with you.
What the hell was that about 
He didn't recognize me. Back off, willya? He didn't recognize me.
What you gotta worry about first is the guards. Place doesn't look much richer than when I worked there, so let's figure you're gonna have to deal with ten of 'em. There'll be two on the floor, walking the room, that leaves eight up above. Eyes in the sky. They see something up, they're the ones who'll hit the silent alarm and you're fucked.
How do we take them out?
You gotta get someone upstairs.
How do we do that?
What about the money?
You lock down security, you move behind the cage. You hit the Count Room. There'll be a guy in there but he's got no guns; room's accessed by another code. Cashiers'll know it. They'll have alarms.
Here's my present to you, truck drivers 
Where the hell's Gabriel?
DROP 'EM! DROP, DROP, DROP!!!
DROP THE GUNS! NOW!
You knew there were guns in here!
Merlin, I didn't know 
You got Pug killed! You tried to get ME killed! You just lost your Get OuttaJailFree 
I promise you, I didn't know!
Thanks, sister. How are ya.
Fuckin' freezing.
Hell yeah. You work here long?
Five years. Since it opened.
How long ago was your makeover?
My what?!
No, the place. The remodeling. moving everything around.
Goddamn, Merlin. There any part of the day you don't smoke?
There anytime you don't got a mouthful of shit?
Cancersucker.
Acidchewer.
That motherfucker 
And Monster... he was talking with the casino manager. Nick was talking to him.
Knew a guy in Joliet, smoked ten packs a day like you. His lungs got so black they couldn't find 'em with an xray.
That right? Shit. I used to run rigs for a guy loved your chaw there. Shit rotted out his tongue, had to build him one outta silicon so the poor boy could talk. You ever see a motherfucker with a silicon fucking tongue?
This trucker? Met a girl in a bar one night, she didn't know his situation. He's drunk, she's drunk, they get to mackin' hot and heavy and the woman swallows it. His tongue. Sucks it right down.
My guy would walk into a room, set off the goddamn sprinklers.
His lips went next. You ever see some siliconfuckinglips?
I got a bacon too; there another bacon in there?
I got a bacon for him and a bacon for me; there's four cheeseburgers and two roast beefs 
Somebody better give me something with some goddamn bacon 
The Powwow Safe?
His personal safe, he gave it a name. Now you're telling me they've taken his office, put the buffet there? Then who knows what else they changed.
What about the Powwow Safe?
What?
The Powwow Safe. The secret safe. You said the manager's got a safe in his office where he hides skim money.
Oh. Right. Yeah. That's, uh upstairs. Uh. Here. Powwow Safe.
Hi, Santa Claus, how are you. He's with Sears, I'm with WalMart, twas the season...
We're all outta gifts, boys and girls, but we got charitable donations!
There's no snow in Vegas, 'kay? They don't know it, they don't want it, they got laws against the stuff. They got Egypt down there, right, they got Monte Carlo, Hawaii, they got ancient Rome, but where's the Winter Castle, right? Where's the Swiss miss Chalet? Where's the Big Fucking Igloo?
We understand you, Mr. Bangs.
Capades? They don't do it. Mittens? Outlawed. Why?
We're aware of your position.
Because down there this is money. Up here this is heat. You wanted Vegas quality, I brought it to you. You wanted Vegas press, I gave it to you. But guys, please, guys... I can't get you Vegas profits... till one of ya does some spirit dance and does something about this snow.
I'm bringing in this great showroom act next week; these three Russian girls, they look like Meryl Streep, they can juggle anything.
Mr. Bangs.
Guys. We're doing it right, here. $5.99 prime rib? Nobody does that in Michigan. Nobody.
The tribe is concerned that many of your... new ideas are not resulting in any new venues.
I'm putting liquor in the drinks, I'm giving 10times odds on craps, I got the girls showing sixteenpercent more skin! Show me another buffet's gonna offer you Coke and Pepsi! Whaddya want me to do?!
We want to see our casino making money again, Mr. Bangs. Making money for our community.
Mister. I'm begging, 'kay? I'm begging. This is not some card club, 'kay? This is the Tomahawk. We're an international gaming destination. We're in guidebooks. You can't do this... you can't do this to me...
Show's over.
He won't tell us where it is. The Powwow Safe.
I don't know... what you're...
THE POWWOW SAFE! WHERE IS THE POWWOW SAFE!
What... Powwow...
The Powwow Safe where you steal your money! Where you cheat your Indians!
I don't steal any 
...so where is he?
Where is he?! Where is he?!
He's not Nick Mason...
I can't go back to Vegas...
OPEN IT!!!
I CAN'T! GO BACK! I CAN'T! GO BACK! I CAN'T! GO BACK!
GO!!!
Hey. They got a shitload of cookies.
Take 'em.
How 'bout the tree? You want the tree?
Leave the tree.
Here ya go, convict. We cased the place in the fall, got the layout down. What you're gonna do is show us where each of these doors go, what the upstairs level looks like, where they got the alarms, all of it.
And where they hide the real money.
Who's robbin' who here, Gabriel...
Get in there and watch 'em. Watch their every fuckin' move.
Where the HELL did he go?
Monster. There never was a structure change. This place was built the same from day one.
You... you don't know me 
Oh, I know you, Nick. I know you real well.
No, you can't 
The hell I can't.
Who are you now.
You got the wrong guy! She thinks I'm Nick, I'm not!
Put him in the truck.
I was in the joint with him! I knew about him and her, okay!? I took his place!
You what...
I got out, Nick didn't! I pretended I was him! I knew about her letters! Jesus Christ, whatever you want from him  I'm not Nick! I  I just wanted to be 
You're not Nick Mason...
I shared his cell!
But you were saying you were...
Yes!
So you could get with my sister.
Yes!
So you could get down her chimney.
Yes!
And you think telling me that's gonna help your cause.
You're a good writer, Nick. I give this writing an Aplus.
I never worked at no casino.
Hey. She says she loves you, Nick.
She says a lot of things.
She's getting you to help us... 'cause she knows if you don't, you're dead. You just tell us what we need to know, you two live happily ever after. My sister loves you, motherfucker, and I ain't gonna have you break her heart.
Wish I had a brother like you.
A girl says she loves you, you say something.
I had better sex in prison.
Heyyy. Be nice, convict. We're gonna be working together here. Get him back in the rig.
Where's she work?
What?
Wrote you a hundred letters, didn't she? Where's she work?
J.C. Penney. Beauty and fragrances.
What's her middle name?
Samantha.
What'd they call her in high school?
Bam Bam.
What'd they call her in college?
What college.
Where'd she drop her cherry?
Be more specific.
A station wagon in Canada.
What's her greatest fear?
Her brother.
Wrong, Nick. It's drowning.
No. It's her brother.
Let's get back on the road. It's time to start talking, Nick. Time to start telling tales 
Nick don't talk till Nick gets something.
You knew the place 
Hey.
How much money's in that casino? Daytoday.
I don't know.
The hell you don't.
Five million?
You wrote Ash that letter, you told her that story 'bout working Christmas Eve, bout how they'd send half the security guys home, nobody comin, in that night. And the rest of you got shitfaced drinking hot buttered rum. That a true story now?
Christmas... Eve...
You know where the guards are. You know how to get in and out. You know where the money is. We're taking down that casino, convict. You're the guy gonna tell us how.
Hey, it's... been two years 
We got faith in you, Nick Mason. You're our inside man.
Hell. Ten?
And which of these doors here lead up to the security level?
What?
I said, who the hell made the map?
I did.
This isn't the Tomahawk.
What the fuck are you talking about.
This is the front entrance, right? You get through the slots, you hit craps here, not blackjack. Blackjack's here to here  lined up. What's this, the cage? Cage is over there, hard to get to, you got it all mixed around 
We walked the place for a week.
And I worked there. For a year.
They wouldn't have changed the security setup.
When I worked there, this was Bangs, office. Back here. He kept a little safe in the... uh, the wall, money held take for himself, skim from the Indians. Called it the... uh... ...the Powwow Safe.
So what the hell good are you...
You'd have to get me inside. Get inside, watch where the money's moving, see where the guards are going. Then I could work with your map.
Wrong, convict. You walk in there, they recognize you.
They won't recognize me.
Why not.
Trust me. They won't recognize me.
We'll trust you when we're rich. Why not.
'Cause you're gonna get me a disguise.
Bring back some memories, Nick?
More than you know.
Rather be back in the Mountain?
Might as well be.
Don't have Weather Channel in the Mountain, Nick.
A cowboy. You're going to send me into an Indian casino disguised as a cowboy. Have you thought this entirely through?
Put it on.
You're a countrywestern singer up from Nashville for the the holidays. Visiting your Grandma on the lake, driving into the Tomahawk for some scotch and slots. You only play the slots, you got that? Don't want no dealer friend of yours recognizing you, you sidle up to shoot some craps.
What kind of halfass cowboy plays the slots?
You do.
At least gimme video poker.
Shut the fuck up. You play what your girlfriend plays. Ashley's going in with you. You talk to her, otherwise you don't talk to nobody. You walk the room as many times as you want, but the second you come out, I want to know the run of the place.
Do I get a countrywestern name?
You get recognized, convict, You get a countrywestern funeral.
Y'know what, guys? I woke up this morning, I got a really lucky feeling going on. I mean it, I'm feeling that good. I wouldn't be surprised if I walk in there, pull a handle and hit jackpot. Hell, we wouldn't even have to 
Get out.
You got one hour.
I'm gonna need some money.
Ten dollars? What do I do with ten dollars?
Don't tip.
Monster. If we're working together here, we gotta be working together. I can't walk in there looking like the Lone Fucking Ranger with ten bucks to throw down. You don't want me getting noticed, right? Not getting noticed costs a guy at least a couple hundred.
A for effort, Nick, honestly, A for effort and an honorary degree. I'm surprised you never escaped from the Mountain.
...never... tried...
Nick, here's what we're gonna do. In the spirit of the season, I'm going to give you a chance. I understand you're unhappy. Right outta the lockup, here against your will, it's the holidays and there's reruns on TV. So we're gonna have a contest.
Got something to say to me, Nick?
...ttt..tt... two out of three?
What'd you tell that casino manager?
Nnn... nothing...
You were talking to him! What'd you tell him!?
Nothing... I promisenothing...
MAYBE SOMETHING ABOUT A ROBBERY?
NO!
He thought I was some gambler... he didn't know me... he didn't recognize me!
I been driving rigs a long time, Nick. Four, five million miles of road. Worked for people who wouldn't keep me on less I was driving fifteen hours a day. Tell 'em I needed sleep, I needed rest, shit, they'll hire someone else...
It's time for me... to be working for me. I want mine, Nick. And I need you. Did you tell your manager there's gonna be a robbery?
No, Gabriel... no...
Man, Monster... just... just don't start trying to hit me...
Nick. I been trying to hit you.
Start singing.
I have no gifts to bring, parumpum pumpum
Sing it in pictures, Nick.
Across from blackjack, there's a security doorway. Keypad access.
What's the code?
Uh... they change it every month. I wouldn't know. If there's trouble on the floor, you'll get security coming through. what you gotta do, is get inside that doorway once they do. You gotta draw 'em out.
So. You're gonna need a man through here, two men at the cage, one to cover the count. You're gonna need a lookout outside, a sweeper through the back, and a gun guarding the front. You need six.
We got five. Putting Ashley outside.
You need six.
NO.
You go in with five, you're either leaving an alarm free or an exit free. Someone hits an alarm, you're fucked. Someone gets to a phone, gets outside, 'cross the street, whatever, you're fucked. You need six. Six is me.
No.
You guys get caught, I go away for good. I got an interest in making sure you don't. You need a sixth man covering an exit. What're you gonna do about it.
I want a map of that security level. Every room, every guard, every thing.
Six men means six guns.
No way.
I'm no threat without a gun.
No, you're not.
There'll be people in that casino. I can't keep them from leaving if I don't get a gun. I don't need bullets, Monster... but I gotta be a threat.
No gun.
Well. What you guys have to plan out, then... is how you're going to get to that cage and that security level before anybody realizes anything's wrong. Running in with ski masks and bullets flying ain't gonna do it.
That part, Nick... was planned out the day I read your letters.
What. We all gonna dress up like cowboys?
Not cowboys, Nick. Not cowboys.
You gotta be kidding me.
'Tis the season, convict.
Can't be attracting attention, right?
What, we walking in there and delivering toys?
You are lucky, convict. You're spending Christmas with the birthday boy himself 
Hey! HEY! THERE IS A POWWOW SAFE!
Buncha guys in red suits busted in, they'll say. Started shooting. They won't be able to remember... if it was three, or four... or five. Four dead Santas and some burnedup cash. Merry Christmas, The End.
Was it your plan, Monster? Or was it hers.
Get in the CAR!
How'd you know my name...
Ash?
How'd you know my name was Rudy.
Ash?
How'd you know my name.
Gotta be ten degrees out there.
Radio said negative five.
Negative five?
Yeah.
I don't think it's negative five.
Radio said.
I figured you walked outta there and saw me and walked right the other way 
No, no 
Saw my outfit or something, my coat 
No, hey, I like your coat 
Saw me 
Ashley, no. That was me, that's what I was scared of. I mean, be serious... I ain't exactly looking like Mr. Universe here.
You are to me.
Thought you wrote you had a mustache.
I can get another one going. Y'know, hey, whatever you want me to 
No, no, no. Be like you want to be.
Do that again.
What.
Smile.
No 
One more. Smile. One more.
No, c'mon 
I've been dreaming about that smile, Ashley Mercer. For a long time.
Tell me something. This the first time you've ever done this?
Go to hell, Nick Mason, what's that supposed to mean 
No, not that, no... I mean this, the whole thing. Start writing to a guy, guy in the bricks. Get a boyfriend like this. Tell me the truth.
Well. You're not the first guy I wrote to. But you're the only one I kept writing to.
Yeah. Me too. Why? I mean I know why for me, why I paid for the ad. But you... why start writing to some guy  some con  you don't even know?
I told you, Nick. Remember?
Tell me again.
All the guys I've ever been with... they never want to know me. Who I am on the inside. They just want to qet inside. When they do, they think that means they know who I am. That I trust them. That they know me. That there's nothing left to learn. A guy like you, Nick  six months before you can even touch my face. I figure a guy in that kind of bind, he's gonna hafta work to get to know me some other way.
Had some bad relationships, didn't you.
Not bad. Just regular. You wrote me wonderful things, Nick. Personal things.
Well, wasn't all me, y'know.
Yes it was all you 
Guy I was in with... he helped sometimes... some of the romantic stuff, actually... you'd like him 
I'm talking about the heart, Nick. I'm not talking about the words.
Y'know, some of the heart mighta been his too...
Then he shoulda signed his name.
Where the hell are you going?
Provisions! We are not leaving that motel room again till after New Year's: we need ten days worth of provisions! What's good?!
Ashley, Jesus 
Can't survive on our bodies alone, Nick. Hurry up!
Ash... didn't you write me that you don't eat chocolate?
Yeah, well you wrote me you were six footfour, baby. So don't talk to me about little white lies.
You need a COAT!
Ash, you've gotten me enough 
No boyfriend of mine is going to walk around in negativefive degree wind chill without a goddamn good looking coat!
Baby, c'mon, all this stuff... I haven't gotten you anything 
You got out, Nick. You're here. You're my Christmas.
You forget where I work?
Beauty and fragrances.
Fifty percent off, motherfucker. Ho ho ho.
Well, I don't know about that 
Blackjack, Nick, blackjack I am good at. I mean, they'd give us some free games or something, wouldn't they? Since you worked there?
Security, Ash, I just worked security. They wouldn't be rolling out the red carpet 
And the slots, slots I'm good at too. Wouldn't that be fun?
We'll have more fun in Detroit.
We could live it up and 
Ashley. We're not going anywhere I used to work.
Baby, I'm gonna go tell 'em not to disturb us for the rest of the year. I get back in that room, you better be wearing nothing but a candy cane.
I'll see what I can do.
No, lover. I'll see what you can do.
NO!
NICK!
I'm not him. I... You want something from Nick, you got the wrong guy.
Nick...
I won't let 'em, Nick. They won't hurt you anymore.
Your brother...
...the truck driver...
He's not a bad person, Nick... he's not...
Since Janey moved in... Gabriel... he's come over more and more. To the apartment. Janey's the divorced one, 'member, with the tit job 
What the fuck is going on.
He read the letters, Nick. Some day I wasn't there. He went through my room. He found your letters.
What's going ON!!!
You motherfucker.
Nick, no 
You sold him out.
Nick 
When'd you decide to do it, Ash? After which of his letters, huh? The fortieth? The fiftieth? The first?!
Nick, what are you 
I'M NOT NICK! You thought you'd fuck him over?! Well he's fucked you! I've never worked at some casino! I can't help you! Because he's not me!
Nick, I love you 
JESUS CHRIST!
Get the hell off of me!
Nick, it won't work. It won't work!
He'll kill you.
You're not hearing me here 
My brother's killed people, I know he has. Truckers. If you talk him into thinking you're not you, you'll only get yourself dead.
He didn't "find" Nick's letters, did he.
Nick, please, it's me 
You told him about Nick's letters.
No, Nick, no 
You're in on this.
I love you!
Your pen palls dead, lady.
If you say that, if you keep saying that, they will kill you. If they think you're not you, they will kill you. Don't you see? I know what you're doing, but it won't work!
Nick died for me....
I won't let him hurt you! He just wants what you know!
...maybe I die for Nick...
Just tell him what you know, Nick! That's all they want! And we'll get out of this!
Gabriel!
Canada.
They changed the layout  whadda they call you? Mr. Monster? They remodeled the place. When I worked there  listen to me  guy that managed the joint, guy who ran it
Jack. Jack Bangs.
Right, Jack Bangs. Uh... guy was always talking bout fixing the place up. Maybe get a better crowd. Musta gone and done it while I was in the Mountain. I don't know this map, man. How the hell am I supposed to tell you what door goes where?
He said he wanted to talk to you. When he found the letters... he said "when your boyfriend gets out, I wanna talk to him." I thought he meant back in Detroit. I thought he meant 
But you knew why. Knew why, didn't ya.
I thought we'd have a few more days.
For what? You to talk me into "helping"? What, he promise you a share of the winnings?
No!
Well, shit, Judas, you shoulda at least gotten that 
Nick! He wants to know how to rob it, and he'll leave you alone! That's all he wants! I hate him, Nick... you know how...
So get him outta your life. Get out of Michigan. They got perfume counters in Chicago, don't they?
Not without you.
Since when do some trucker pals start thinking big, anyway?
They run routes mostly east, retail stuff, warehouses. But Gabriel knows some guys in New York, Miami, guys he helps get guns to Detroit. Hides 'em with his regular loads.
He working for them on this one?
No. He wants to be working for himself someday.
And I'm his ticket. What's the last place they took down?
What?
Gabriel and his guys. What's the last place they robbed?
They've never done a robbery?
They're truck drivers.
Then they do need me, don't they. They really need me...
We're gonna get out of here, Nick. We're gonna get out of this...
We? What "we"...
Get your own room, Ashley.
Nick...
Get your own room.
So does it look a lot different?
Here and there. Restaurant, uh, that's the main expansion. Tables've been moved around; the big man's office, I dunno, might be upstairs now.
That guy knows you?
Yeah, uh. Mike. That's Mike.
Nick, what happened 
There went my... damn... well, doesn't seem like security's all that switched... Ash, shit, this mustache is starting to fall off. I gotta fix this thing   drink this for me.
We get to the bridge, we're all right!
Nick, the ice is 
Get to the bridge! HEY! HEY! DOWN HERE!
Jesus Christ, stay here, don't move, stay right here 
All I wanted... was to make it home... for a little of Dad's turkey, and Mom's stuffing... Aunt Lisbeth's acorn gravy... Aunt Mary's cranberry buns...
We'll get there, baby... we'll get there...
...Haven't had cranberry buns... in five whole years...
Shh, now. Rest now. Two years, Nick. You haven't had cranberry buns in two years.
You saved my life. You could have run, but you didn't. You saved me.
You saved me.
I saved you because I love you, Nick. Why'd you save me?
I'm sorry, Nick... I'm so sorry...
Don't say my name...
I love you, Nick...
Ash. Don't say it. Don't say my name.
They'll have guns.
What?
You said they've run guns, in their trucks. So they'll have guns. To do this robbery. They'll have serious guns.
I don't know...
We'll need one.
I'm going to have to be inside that casino. When it happens. I'll need to be part of it. I can't just be drawing some map.
Nick, what are you talking about?
We need to find a way to make me part of it.
Part of... with them?
He wants to see your map.
I'm almost done.
He says he wants it now.
If he wanted a photographic memory, he shoulda kidnapped one. I'm working on it here.
How are we gonna do this, Nick?
You're the getaway girl. The money's gonna get to you eventually. Gonna be my job to be the guy who walks outta there with it. But I can't do that without a gun. Any luck talking to him?
Bullets or no bullets, he won't do it.
Is there any way you could get into his truck?
No.
We need a gun, Ash. We need a gun...
Here's the Picasso. Is he in his room?
They all are. Football's on.
Keep 'em there for a little while.
I don't know where you're going. But I'm going home.
We go together, Nick. Wherever... we go together. Remember?
Well. I'm going home.
WHERE'S THE FUCKING CASH, NICK!
Yeah. That's love.
You... you... YOU 
We still gonna spend Christmas together?
I saved your life.
You shouldn't have.
He did love you, you know. Nick. He did love you.
Who wouldn't.
Merry Christmas, Rudy.
I'm glad it was me.
Merry Christmas.
What?
Rudy. How'd you know my name?
What are you talking about?
You said Merry Christmas, Rudy.
I... you told me your name was Rudy. You told me a million times, back in the truck, telling me you weren't Nick 
No 
You were screaming you weren't Nick! And we just didn't fucking believe you!
But I never said Rudy.
You said it a million times!
I never told you my name.
You can't find... what?
Toys for adults. Where are your toys for adults?
Toys for... adults?
C'mon. How old are you, sixteen? C'mon.
We sell children's toys 
I got fifty dollars to spend in your store, Jesus of Nazareth. Can you help me or not?
Slinky's in aisle five, Twister's in aisle one, Moon Mud's in aisle four.
Thank you.
So. This is the guy you been waiting for. Man of your dreams.
Gabriel  !
Must have a way with stationery.
Gabriel, what are you doing!
You better be here to be good to her, loverboy. 'Cause she's been good to you.
Gabriel, let him go 
Read a lot about you, Nick.
What are you doing here?!
Read you're a man of some knowledge.
Gabriel!
A man of some travels.
GABRIEL, I LOVE HIM!
Is this him!?
Don't hurt him...
Is this the fucker you been writing all year!?
Please, Gabriel, don't...
IS THIS NICK MASON!!??
YES!!!
Gabriel, you promised!
I promised that when he helped us, we'd be gone! When he helped us! Loverboy don't want to play!
You promised me!
And you promised me you'd get your sweetheart to help!
He'd rather die than be with you, he'd make a fuckedup boyfriend anyway. Bury him all over the place.
NO!
Gabriel! You said talk to him. That's all you ever said...
We're talking, aren't we?
He wants the money.
No, baby. He wants me.
He wants... your "sister"...
...whoever she is.
All those letters are about to pay off, baby... all those letters...
To all those cons...
Searching for a money man...
We musta written what, twenty of 'em? And they were before this guy. One, two letters apiece, ten to the racetrack guy in Leavenworth 
 till he fucked his parole 
 plus the forty to Mason... how many letters is that?
That's a book, baby. That's a book of love.
I can't take watching you touch him. I can't take his hands on you.
One more day, baby. One more day to Christmas.
I've been doing good, though.
Didn't have to hit me so fucking hard. Didn't have to throw me outta the goddamn truck.
Didn't have to send me down a fucking mountain.
What, he should see me help you catch him?
He's shown us the setup, he's drawn us the map, he's helped us do the plan. He wants a gun, give him a gun. Take the bullets out, whatever, but give him the gun. The more manpower we've got in there, the better. He won't try and make his move till the money's in hand.
He'll be dead when he does.
Y'know something, baby? If you were my sister? I'd still want to wake up Christmas morning with you...
Mmm, baby. And I'd still want to be the tinsel round your tree...
Gabriel!
That's for the hundred bucks worth of payperview. And that's for the two hundred you took outta your minibar.
How did you know that?
We used to sing it in school. Don't look at me with such horror. They had schools in those days.
But the same song. I think it's fantastic!
We were romantic then too
Are you and Mom home tonight?
No. Why?
Nothing, only it'd be nice to spend an evening together for a change.
With us old creeps? Come on, we have to eat.
Daddy
Good evening.
Hi.
Didn't you forget something?
What?
You're too old for that kind of stuff, kiddo. I thought you stopped doing that long ago.
I didn't want to stop.
I was talking to Dad.
I didn't kiss her so it's a big thing.
I guess I just don't understand anything.
I'm tired, Judy. I'd like to change the subject.
Why?
I'd like to, that's all. Girls your age don't do that. You need an explanation?
Girls don't love their father? Since when? Since I got to be sixteen?
Judywe're ready for you now.
He hates me.
What?
He hates me.
What makes you think he hates you, Judy?
I don't think. I know. He looks at me like I'm the ugliest thing in the world. He doesn't like my friendshe
He makes you feel pretty unhappy?
He calls me a dirty trampmy own father!
Do you think your father means that?
Yes! I don't know! I mean maybe he doesn't mean it but he acts like he does. We're altogether and we're going to celebrate Easter and catch a double bill. Big deal. So I put on my new dress and I came out and he
That one?
Yeshe started yelling for a handkerchiefscreaming. He grabbed my face and he rubbed all my lipstick offhe rubbed till I thought I wouldn't have any lips left. And all the time yelling at methat thingthe thing I told you he called me. Then I ran out of the house.
Is that why you were wandering around at one o'clock in the morning?
I was just talking a walk. I tried to call the kids but everybody was out and I couldn't find them. I hate my life. I just hate it.
You weren't looking for company, were you?
No.
Did you stop to talk to anyone, Judy? Do you enjoy that?
No. I don't even know why I do it.
Do you think you can get back at your Dad that way? I mean sometimes if we can't get as close to somebody as we'd like we have to try making them jealousso they'll have to pay attention. Did you ever think of that?
I'll never get close to anybody.
Some kids stomped a man on Twelfth Street, Judy.
You know where they picked me up! Twelfth Street! I wasn't even near there!
Would you like to go home if we can arrange it? Did you notify the parents?
Your mother will be down in a few minutes, Judy
What?
Your mother will be down in a few minutes.
My mother?
She's being called for.
You said you'd call my father.
Goodbye, Judy. Take it easy.
Is he your friend?
Yes. My best friend.
What's he like?
Oh, I don't know. You have to get to know him. He doesn't say much but when he does you know he means it. He's sincere.
Well, that's the main thingdon't you think so?
Maybe next summer he's going to take me hunting with himand fishing. I want him to teach me how and I bet he won't get mad if I goof. His name's Jim. It's really James but he likes Jim more. People he really likeshe lets call him "Jamie."
Want to finish my hamburger? I only took a bite.
Okay.
Don't give it a thought. Only three million dollars a month!
Oh, we can manage that! I'll scrimp and save and work my fingers to the bone...
Children? Well, we really don't encourage them. They're so noisy and troublesome, don't you agree?
Yes. And so terribly annoying when they cry. I just don't know what to do when they cry, do you dear?
Shall I show you the nursery? It's far away from the rest of the house. If you have childrenOh I hate the word!or if you decide to adopt onethey can carry on and you'll never even notice. In fact, if you lock them in you never have to see them again, much less talk to them.
Talk to them! Heavens!
Plato, where's your father now?
He's dead. He was a hero in the China Sea. JIM You told me he's a big wheel in New York!
I did? Well, he might as well be dead. What's the difference?
It's all right.
Hi, Plato!
Hi.
Hi. I saw you before.
Bully for you.
You don't have to be unfriendly.
Now that's true!
See?
"Life is crushing in on me."
"Life can be beautiful." Hey, I know where it was.
Where what was.
Where I saw you. Everything going okay now? You live around here?
Who lives?
See, I'm new.
Won't mother be proud.
You're really flippedaren't you.
Where's Dawson High School?
You going there?
Yeahwhy
Dig the square wardrobe!
Yeah. So where's the high school?
University and 10thWant to carry my books?
The kids take me.
Oh.
I'll bet you're a real yo yo.
A what?
Goodbye! See you!
I'm not so bad.
They'll be looking for you.
They saw where I jumped! I didn't chicken! What do I have to do kill myself?
It doesn't matter to them.
You were looking for me, weren't you?
NoI was justmaybe
I tried to call you before. JUDY I thought so.
You still pretty upset?
I'm numb.
You cold?
Even if I'm near a fire, I'm cold. I guess just about everybody's cold.
I swear, sometimes, you just want to hold onto somebody! Judy, what am I going to do? I can't go home again.
Neither can I.
No? Why not? You know something? Sometimes I figure I'll never live to see my next birthday. Isn't that dumb?
No.
Every day I look in the mirror and say, "What? You still here?" Man!
Like even today. I woke up this morning, you know? And the sun was shining and everything was nice. Then the first thing that happens is I see you and I thought this is going to be one terrific day so you better live it up, boy, 'cause tomorrow maybe you'll be nothing.
I'm sorry I treated you mean today. You shouldn't believe what I say when I'm with the kids. Nobody acts sincere.
Why'd you get mixed up with them? You don't have to prove anything.
If you knew me you wouldn't say that.
I don't think you trust anybody, do you?
Why?
I'm getting that way, too.
Have you ever gone with anyone who
Sure. Lots of times.
So have I. But I've never been in love. Isn't that awful?
Awful? No. It's just lonely. It's the loneliest time.
Why did you do that?
I felt like it.
Your lips are soft when you kiss.
Where you going?
I don't know, but we can't stay here.
Where can we go? I can't go back into that zoo.
I'm never going back.
Listen! I know a place! PLATO showed me before. An old deserted mansion near the planetarium Would you go with me?
You can trust me, Judy.
I feel as if I'm walking under water.
Oh, Jim!
Nocome on. Should we rent or are we in a buying mood, dear?
You decide, darling. Remember our budget.
Why don't we just rent it for the season?
You see, we've justoh, you tell him, darling. I'm so embarrassed I could die!
Wellwe're newlyweds.
There's just one thing. What about
Of course. Drown them like puppies.
See, we're very modern.
You can't talk underwater!
I bet you hear everything I say!
Ever been in a place like this before?
Not exactly. It's certainly huge.
How many rooms do you think there are?
I don't know.
Should we explore?
Want to read any books? Take your pick! Isn't this the craziest?
Hi.
Hi.
What?
Your hand's all wet and it's shaky. You're so funny.
Why?
I don't knowyou just are. Leaving a light for Plato. That was nice.
Maybe he's scared of the dark.
Are you?
Here we are out of cigarettes Junior's in the nurs'ry See how late it gets
You don't need to do that.
There's something I should tell you, Judy.
I know already. We don't have to pretend now.
What a relief!
Is this what it's like to love somebody?
You disappointed?
Funny Jimmy. You're so clean and youthis is silly.
What?
You smell like baby powder.
So do you.
I never felt so clean before.
It's not going to be lonely, Judy. Not for you and not for me.
I love somebody. All the time I've been looking for someone to love me and nowI love somebody. And it's so easy. Why is it easy now?
It is for me too.
I love you, Jim. I really mean it.
No!
We have to go back!
No! I got to find him.
After he tried to shoot you?
He didn't mean itwe shouldn't have left him. He needed us.
He needed you, maybe. So do I.
You should have heard him talk about you tonight. Like you were the hero in the China Seas.
Sure. He was trying to make us his family.
They're killing him!
Hey! That's enough static out of you.
Want me to imitate a stupid cop?
Cut it out now. I'm warning you.
Yes, ma'am.
Assault with a deadly weapon.
Listen
Plato!
Just walk over here quietly now and there won't be any trouble.
Someone should put poison in her epsom salts.
Grandma?
Get lost.
Hang loose, boy. I'm warning you.
Wash up and go home.
Big tough character. You don't kid me, pal. How come you're not wearing your boots?
Too bad you didn't connect. You could have gone to Juvenile Hall. That's what you want, isn't it?
No.
Sure it is. You want to bug us till we have to lock you up. Why?
Leave me alone.
No.
I don't know why!
Go ondon't give me that. Someone giving you hard looks?
I just get so Boy, sometimes the temperature goes way up. RAY Okay. Okay. Let it out.
You feel like you want to blow your wheels right now?
All the time! I don't know what gets into mebut I keep looking for trouble and I alwaysI swear you better lock me up. I'm going to smash somebodyI know it.
Try the desk.
That why you moved from the last town? 'Cause you were in trouble? You can talk about it if you want toI know about it anyway. Routine check.
And they think they are protecting my by moving.
You were getting a good start in the wrong direction back there. Why did you do it?
Mess that kid up?
He called me chicken.
And your folks didn't understand?
They never do.
So then you moved?
They think I'll make friends if we move. Just move and everything'll be roses and sunshine.
But you don't think that's a solution.
Things pretty tough for you at home?
She eats him alive and he takes it.
What a zoo!
What?
A zoo. He always wants to be my pal, you know? But how can I give him anything when he'sI mean I love him and I don't want to hurt himbut I don't know what to do anymore except maybe die.
Pretty mixed up?
If he could
"If he could" what? You mean your father?
I mean if he had the guts to knock Mom cold once I bet she'd be happy and I bet she'd stop picking. They make mush out of him. Just mush. One thing I know is I never want to be like him.
Chicken?
I bet you see right through me, don't you?
How can anyone grow up in this circus?
You got me, Jimbut they do. Want some water?
Boyif I had one day when I didn't have to be all confused and ashamed of everythingor I felt I belonged some place.
Here. Look, will you do something for me? If the pot starts boiling again, will you come and see me before you get yourself in a jam? Even if you just want to talkcome in and shoot the breeze. It's easier sometimes than talking to your folks.
Okay
Any timeday or night. You calmed down enough to go back now?
You serious?
What?
Stop tearing me apart! You say one thing and he says another and then everybody changes back
That's a fine way to behave!
I'm sorry.
All right, darling.
Sit down and eatyou'll be late.
It'd stick in my throat, Mom. I'm nervous or something
'Bye, Mom.
Goodbye, dear.
What happened, darling. We were so worried. I was going to take a sleeping pill, but I wouldn't till I knew you were home.
I have to talk to someone, Mom. I have to talk to you both. And Dad this time you got to give me an answer.
How!
It doesn't matter how. I was driving a stolen car
Do you enjoy doing this to me or what
MomI'm not
And you wanted him to make a list!
I told you Dad, it was a question of honor. They called me chicken you know, chicken! I had to go or I would never have been able to face any of those kids again. So I got in one of these cars and a boy called Buzz got in the other. We had to drive fast and jump before the cars went over the edge of the bluff. I got out okay but Buzz didn't. He was killed.
Good Lord!
I can't keep it to myself anymore
What about the other boysDo you think they'll go to the police?
What's that got to do with it?
Why should you be the only one.
No! I don't want you to go to the police! There were other people and why should you be the only one involved!
But I am involved! We're all involved, Mom! A boy was killed! I don't see how we can get out of that by pretending it didn't happen!
He's not saying that! He's saying don't volunteer!
Just tell a little white lie?
Well, it doesn't matter anyhow because we're moving.
No! You're not tearing me loose any more.
Do I have to spell it out?
You're not going to use me as an excuse again, Mom. Every time you can't face yourself you want to move and you say it's because of me or the neighborhood or some other phony excuse. Now I want to do one thing right and I'm not letting you run away. Dad?
Jimmy, you're very youngand a foolish decision now could wreck your whole life.
Dadanswer heraren't you going to stand up for me?
Hi.
Hi there.
You remember me?
No. I don't think so
I'm sorryI made a mistake.
Boy!
What?
Once you been up there, you know you been some place!
You shouldn't monkey with him.
What?
He's a wheel. So's she. It's hard to make friends with them.
I don't want to make friends.
What's your name!
Jim. What's yours?
Plato. It's a nickname.
Listen, I told you not to fool with them. Now they're waiting for you.
I know. That's why I came back.
You scared?
I just don't want trouble.
He has a knife.
I saw it. Gee, look at that thing swing, will you? Do you think it never stops?
No. It's perpetual motion.
Oh, I bet some little guy comes in here at night and pushes it. Go gogo!
I'm here.
They're still there!
JimDo you think when the end of the world comes it'll be at night?
No. In the morning.
Are you really going to meet them?
Who knows. Plato?
What?
What's a chickierun?
How'd you get here?
I hitched.
Boy, I bet you'd go to a hanging.
My personality's showing again. Should I leave?
No. It's okay.
I got to go in. You better get home too. Heywhat?
Why don't you come home with me? I mean nobody's home at my houseand I'm not tired, are you? I don't have manypeople I can talk to.
Who has?
If you want to come we could talk and then in the morning we could have breakfast like my dad used to Gee...if you could only have been my father...we could...
Hey...you flippedor something? You better take off...
O.K. G'night. I got to pick up my scooter. See you tomorrow.
Yeah.
Jim!
Who's that!
It's me!
How'd you find me? What's happening?
They're looking for you!
Yeah?
Everybody! Crunch and Goon and everybody! I think they're going to kill you.
We know.
They think you told the police on them. Theywho's in there?
Judy.
Help me in!
Hey where'd you go?
I'm here. Shut up.
Come out come out wherever you are!
Shut up. Are you nuts?
No. I'm scared.
We're safe here. I hope. What do you think?
Wow! Well nowtherethen!
Isn't it crazy?
Wowee ow wow! Let's take it for the summer.
Nobody talks to children! They just tell them one thing and mean another.
It's wonderful that you understand so welland so young too! You know the most wonderful feature about the nursery?
What?
There's only one key.
We'll take it!
Come on!
Let's see how long we can stay under.
Man, you're schizoid!
I'm what? What?
Isn't he schizoid?
Hey! How 'bout that!
Haven't you noticed your personality splitting?
Not lately.
How do you know so much about this junk, Plato?
I had to go to a headshrinker. I only went twice though. My mother said it cost too much, so she went to Hawaii instead.
I came here before.
When was that?
When I was here? When I ran away. I used to run away a lot but they always took me back.
Who?
Mom and Dad. I used to be in my crib and I'd listen to them fight.
You remember that far back? Boy, I can't even remember yesterday.
What you run out on me for! What you leave me alone for?
Plato!
I don't want you for my father!
Your father!
You crazy nut! You crazy, crazy nut!
Get away from me!
Plato?
I'm here.
Boy, I'm blind as a bat! You got a match? I'm going to break my neck in here. Where are you?
I've got a gun.
I know. Light a match, will you?
That's swell. How are you?
I'm fine.
You think the end of the world will come at nighttime, Jim?
No. At dawn.
Why?
I just have a feeling. Where are you?
Here.
Well, stop hiding and stand up. I can't talk to you if I don't see you.
I'm not going to hurt you. PLATO Why did you run out on me?
We didn't run out. We were coming right back.
You sure?
Sure I'm sure. Judy's waiting. You ready to come out now?
No.
I promise nothing'll happen if you do. You want my jacket? It's warm.
Can I keep it?
What do you think?
You want to give me your gun now, Plato?
My gun?
In your pocket. Give it to me.
I need it.
You trust me, don't you? Just give it to me for a second.
You promised to give it back.
Friends never break promises, do they? Okay. Here. Now listen. There are a lot of people outside and they all want you to be safe. You understand that? They said I could come in and bring you out.
Why?
They like you. Okay?
Come on!
Who's that?
Just a guard.
I shot at one of them.
But you didn't hurt anybody.
Those aren't my friends. Make them go away.
Ray! Will you tell these guys to move back?
Plato!
Keep away from me! I don't believe you anymore!
Excuse mebutYou know where I can findI mean I don't remember his last name
Lookcan't you see I'm writing?
I think his first name's RayI have to see him. It's very important.
What's the charge?
He's not here. He's not at Juvenile Hall. I don't know where he is. He's out on a call and he'll be out all night. How old are you?
My parents know I'm out. They know I'm here.
Come back tomorrow.
I'll wait for him.
Why don't you come back tomorrow, son? Ever been booked before?
Do you know why you shot those puppies, John? Is that what they call you or do you have a nickname?
Plato.
Can you tell me why you killed the puppies, Plato?
No, sir. I just went next door to look at them like I always do. They were nursing on their mother and I did it. I guess I'm just no good?
What do you think's going to happen, you do things like that?
I don't know. End up in the electric chair?
Where did you get the gun?
In my mother's drawer.
You know if the boy ever talked to a psychiatrist?
Headshrinker?
John Crawford?
Yes, sir.
Come with me, John.
She keep it to protect herself, sir. She scared without a man in the house.
Where's your mother tonight, Plato?
They not together, sir. We don't see him in a long time now.
Do you hear from him, son?
Oh, Mrs. Crawford don't believe in them!
Well maybe she better start.
I guess I cut pretty loose in my day too.
Really, Frank? When was that?
Listencan't you wait till we get home?
Can't you answer? What's the matter with you anyhow?
He's just loaded, honey.
I was talking to Jim.
Let me just explain to youwe just moved here, y'understand? The kid has no friends yet and
Was it because we went to that party? You know what kind of drunken brawls those parties turn into it's no place for kids.
A minute ago you said you didn't care if he drinks.
I guess when I nearly died giving birth to youthat shows how much I don't care!
Just relax, please relax!
No!
Did anyone see you there? I mean did they get your license number or anything?
Look Jim. Far be it from me to tell you what to do, but there's
Are you going to preach now? Are we going to have a sermon?
I'm just explaining what you mean! You can't be an idealist all your life! Nobody thanks you for sticking your neck out!
That's right!
Frank? I'm frightened.
What's that pounding?
I don't know. First I thought it was Jim but
He's home. I heard the car.
Are you going down there?
Lookjust relax, will you?
See? It stopped.
I still think you should go down.
Who's there? Anyone there?
Open it.
Is he there?
No, honey. No, he's not here.
Frank!
Stay here. That was my son!
I don't see what's so bad about taking a little drink.
You don't?
No. I definitely don't. I did the sa
He's a minor, Mr. Stark, and it looks to me like he had more than a little drink.
Say, listen
Whoa! Whoa! I know you're a little upset but
Sorry.
What about you, Jim? Got anything to say for yourself?
Excuse us a minute?
Sure. Sure.
Luck, Jim. Don't forget.
Have some cigars.
No thanks, I don't smoke.
Go onGive 'em to your friends.
Nothanks, very much, Mr. Stark.
You sure?
I think I know my son.
Tell him why we moved here.
Hold it, Jim.
You can't protect me.
You mind if I try? You have to slam the door in my face? I try to get to himwhat happens? Don't I give you everything you want? A bicycleyou get a bicycle. A car
You buy me many things. Thank you.
Not just buy! You hear all this talk about not lovely your kids enough. We give you love and affection, don't we?
Mother
You make any sandwiches?
My first day of school, mother'd make me eat and by golly I could never even swallow till recess
So long, young fella. Knock 'em dead, like your old man used to!
Sure You know something? I have a feeling we're going to stay here.
And listenwatch out about the pals you chooseKnow what I mean? Don't let them choose you
You thought I was Mom?
Yeah!
It's just this getup. The girl's out and I was bringing Mom's supper.
And you dropped it?
Yeah! Shh!
That's funny!
I better clean this up before she sees it.
You awake?
Yes.
ListenI took a steak out of the freezer. I thought we could have a real oldfashioned stag partyjust the two of us, what do you say?
I'm not hungry.
HeyI want to ask you something.
Shoot, Jimbo.
Suppose you knew that you had to do something very dangerouswhere you have to prove something you need to knowa question of honor. Would you do it?
Is there some kind of trick answer?
What would you do, Dad?
I wouldn't do anything hasty. Let's get a little light on the subject.
Blood.
How'd that happen! What kind of trouble you in?
The kind we've been talking about. Can you answer me now?
Listennobody should make a snap decisionThis isn't something you justwe ought to consider all the pros and cons
We don't have time.
We'll make time. Where's some paper. We'll make a list and if we're still stuck then we ought to get some advice
What can you do when you have to be a man?
Well, now
Just give me a direct answer! You going to stop me from going, Dad?
You know I never stop you from anything. Believe meyou're at a wonderful age. In ten years you'll look back on this and wish you were a kid again.
Ten years? Now, DadI need an answer now!
I just want to show you how foolish you are. When you're older you'll laugh at yourself for thinking this is so important
Go ahead.
I'm in terrible trouble.You know that big high bluff near Miller town Junction?
Surethere was a bad accident there. They showed the pictures on T.V.
I was in it.
Will you let him tell it!
She never wants to hear. She doesn't care!
Well, just get it off your chest, son.
That's not what I mean. I've never done anything right. I've been going around with my head in a sling for years...I don't want to drag you into this but I can't help it. I don't think I can prove anything by going around pretending I'm tough any more, so maybe you look like one thing but you still feel like another.
You're absolutely right!
Are you listening to me? You're involved in this! I want to go to the police and tell them I was mixed up in this thing tonight?
You what?
I don't think so
Well
Except yourself!
Will you wait a minute?
You don't want me to go.
You know you did wrong. That's the main thing, isn't it?
No! It's nothing! Just nothing! You always told me to tell the truth. You think you can just turn that off?
You'll learn as you get a little older, Jim.
I don't want to learn that!
Sonthis is all happening so fast
You better give me something, Dad. You better give me something Mom?
He depended on me.
And you can depend on me, son. Trust me. Whatever comes we'll face it together, I swear.
What's he going to pull
Nothing, Crunch. They picked him up like the rest of
You see any cops?
You see any cops?
No
He's going to cheese, I tell you. Nobody arrested him!
I think I should go home.
No. We're going to bring him down.
Crunchmy father'sYou going to kill him?
You clean out of your head? Come on!
What time is it?
Hang loose. We got all night.
That maid saw us. She could identify us too.
You still want to go home, Moose?
No.
Then shut your mouth before your guts run out!
We heard firing. He get anybody? You alone?
We got a cookaboo inside. He wounded some kid earlier.
How'd he get in?
Smashed the front door.
Any other entrance?
Down in back.
You know something?
What?
You watch too much television.
Hey, he's real abstract and different.
I'm cute, too.
Meaning me?
What?
Chicken?
I thought only punks fought with knives.
Who's fighting? This is the test, man. It's a crazy game.
Machismo?
Somebody find him a knife.
You satisfied or you want more?
How 'bout you? Say the word and you're cold, Jackyou're dead.
Where can we meet?
Know the Millertown bluff?
Just him.
Stay there.
What you say your name was?
Jim Stark.
Buzz Gundersen.
Hi.
Glad to meet you.
Sure. It's fine.
Okay.
This is the edge, boy. This is the end.
Yeah.
I like you, you know?
Buzz? What are we doing this for?
We got to do something. Don't we?
Steady Marlon!
Wanna make the colored lights go around and around?
What's that?
A new disease.
Friend of yours?
I'm glad they let you out.
Nobody chickened.
I heard about it. You're lucky he lived.
They always live.
Buzziewe better get out of here.
What's eating you, Judy? You want him alive?
Feel okay?
Give me some dirt.
What's happening?
Good luck, Buzz.
A man is assaulting a woman at one two five west ninth street. Second floor rear. Make it fast.
Your name?
L. B. Jefferies.
Phone number?
Chelsea 25598.
Two minutes.
How's your leg?
Mmmm  hurts a little.
And your stomach?
Empty as a football.
And you love life?
Not too active.
Anything else bothering you?
Uhhuh.
The Lisa Fremont who never wears the same dress twice?
Only because it's expected of her.
Depends on the quote. Let's see  there's the plane tickets over, import duties, hidden taxes, profit markups 
 A steal at eleven hundred dollars.
That dress should be listed on the stock exchange.
We sell a dozen a day in this price range.
Who buys them? Tax collectors?
Something big going on somewhere?
Going on right here. It's a big night.
It's just a runofthemill Monday. The calendar's loaded with them.
It's opening night of the last depressing week of L. B. Jefferies in a cast.
Hasn't been any big demand for tickets.
Picked it up in Shanghai  which has also seen better days.
It's cracked  and you never use it. And it's too ornate. I'm sending up a plain, flat silver one  with just your initials engraved.
Now that's no way to spend your hard earned money!
I wanted to, Jeff. Oh!
What would you think of starting off with dinner at the "21"?
You have, perhaps, an ambulance outside?
Big enough?
Fine. Corkscrew's on the right.
I couldn't think of anything more boring and tiresome than what you've been through. And the last week must be the hardest.
Yeah  I want to get this thing off and get moving.
Well, I'm going to make this a week you'll never forget.
What a day I've had!
Tired?
Not a bit. I was all morning in a sales meeting. Then over to the Waldorf for a quick drink with Madame Dufresne  just over from Paris. With some spy reports. Back to the "21" for lunch with the Harper's Bazaar people  that's when I ordered dinner. Then two Fall showings  twenty blocks apart. Then I had to have a cocktail with Leland and Slim Hayward  we're trying to get his next show. Then I had to dash back and change.
Tell me  what was Slim Hayward wearing?
She looked very cool. She had on a mint green 
You can't buy that kind of publicity.
That's good news.
Someday you might want to open up your own studio here.
How could I run it from say  Pakistan?
Jeff  isn't it time you came home? You could pick your assignment.
I wish there was one I wanted.
Make the one you want.
You mean leave the magazine?
Yes.
For what?
For yourself  and me. I could get you a dozen assignments tomorrow... fashion, portraits 
Don't laugh.  I could do it!
That's what I'm afraid of. Could you see me  driving down to the fashion salon in a jeep  wearing combat boots and a three day beard?
I could see you looking handsome and successful in a dark blue flannel suit.
Let's not talk any more nonsense, huh?
That's what is know as "manless melancholia."
Miss Lonely Hearts. At least that's something you'll never have to worry about.
Oh? You can see my apartment all the way up on 63rd street?
Not exactly  but we have a little apartment here that's probably about as popular as yours. You, of course, remember Miss Torso.
Well, she picked the most prosperous looking one.
She's not in love with him  or any of them.
How can you tell that  from here?
You said it resembled my apartment, didn't you?
Oh... some songwriter. In the studio apartment. Lives alone. Probably had an unhappy marriage.
I think it's enchanting.
Almost as if it were being written especially for us.
No wonder he's having so much trouble with it.
If you're saying all this just because you don't want to tell me the truth, because you're hiding something from me, then maybe I can understand 
There's nothing I'm hiding. It's just that 
It doesn't make sense to me. What's so different about it here from over there, or any place you go, that one person couldn't live in both places just as easily?
Some people can. Now if you'll let me explain 
What is it but traveling from one place to another, taking pictures? It's just like being a tourist on an endless vacation.
All right. That's your opinion. You're entitled to it, but 
It's ridiculous for you to say that it can only be done by a special, private little group of anointed people.
Lisa, simmer down  will you?
You can't fit in here  I can't fit in there. According to you, people should be born, live an die on the same 
Lisa! Shut up!
Did you ever eat fish heads and rice?
Of course not.
You might have to, if you went with me. Ever try to keep warm in a C54, at fifteen thousand feet, at twenty below zero?
Oh, I do that all the time. Whenever I have a few minutes after lunch.
Ever get shot at, run over, sandbagged at night because people got unfavorable publicity from your camera?
Those high heels would be a lot of use in the jungle  and those nylons and sixounce lingerie 
Three.
Well, they'd be very stylish in Finland  just before you froze to death. Begin to get the idea?
Huh? Try and find a raincoat in Brazil. Even when it isn't raining Lisa, on this job you carry one suitcase. Your home is the available transportation. You sleep rarely, bathe even less, and sometime the food you even look at when they were alive!
Jeff, you don't have to be deliberately repulsive just to impress me I'm wrong.
If anything, I'm making it sound good. Let's face it, Lisa... you aren't made for that kind of a life. Few people are.
You don't think either one of us could ever change?
Right now, it doesn't seem so.
And it's deflating to find out that the only way I can be part of it  is to take out a subscription to your magazine. I guess I'm not the girl I thought I was.
There's nothing wrong with you, Lisa. You have the town in the palm of your hand.
Not quite  it seems. Goodbye, Jeff.
You mean "goodnight."
I mean what I said.
Can't we just sort of keep things status quo?
Without any future?
I'm not exactly on the other side of the room.
Your mind is. And when I want a man, I want all of him.
Don't you ever have any problems?
I have one now.
So do I.
Tell me about it.
Why would a man leave his apartment three times, on a rainy night, with a suitcase? And come back three times?
He likes the way his wife welcomes him home.
Not that salesman's wife. And why didn't he go to work today?
Homework. It's more interesting.
What's interesting about a butcher's knife and a small saw wrapped up in a newspaper?
Nothing, thank heaven.
Why hasn't he gone into his wife's bedroom all day?
I wouldn't dare answer that.
Lisa  there's something terribly wrong.
What do you think?
Something too frightful to utter.
Jeff  if you could only see yourself.
Now, Lisa 
Sitting around, looking out a window to kill time, is one thing  but doing it the way you are   with, with binoculars, and with wild opinions about every little movement you see  is, is diseased!
Do you think I consider this recreation?
I don't know what you consider it  but if you don't stop it, I'm getting out of here.
You'd better before you catch the disease!
What is it you're looking for?
I want to find out what's wrong with the salesman's wife. Does that make me sound like a madman?
What makes you think something's wrong with her?
A lot of things. She's an invalid who needs constant care  and yet the husband nor anyone else has been in there all day.
Maybe she died.
Where's the doctor  the undertakers?
She could be under sedatives, sleeping. He's in the room now.
Lisa, please!
There's nothing to see.
There is  I've seen things through that window! Bickering, family fights, mysterious trips at night, knives, saws, rope  and since last evening, not a sight or sound of his wife! Now you tell me where she is and what she's doing!
Maybe he's leaving his wife. I don't know, and I don't care. Lots of people have saws, knives and ropes around their houses. Lots of men don't speak to their wives all day. Lots of wives nag, and men hate them, and trouble starts  but very, very, very few of them end up in murder  if that's what you're thinking.
It's pretty hard to stay away from that word isn't is?
You could see all the things he did, couldn't you?
What are you getting at?
You could see that he did because he had the shades in his apartment up, and walked along the corridor, and the streets and the backyard?
Yeah.
Jeff, do you think a murderer would let you see all that? That he shouldn't keep his shades down and hide behind them?
That's where he's being clever. Acting nonchalant.
And that's where you're not being clever. He wouldn't parade his crime in front of the open shades.
No comment.
Don't you see how silly you're being?
Okay, Lisa  probably you're right. He's probably in the bedroom now, entertaining his wife with the indian rope trick. I'll admit to criminal insanity. Now when do I start the cure?
The name on the second floor rear mailbox reads Mr. And Mrs. Lars, that's LARS, Lars Thorwald.
What's the apartment house number?
125 West Ninth Street.
Okay, chief. What's my next assignment.
To get on home.
All right  but what's he doing now?
It doesn't seem to be in any hurry.
He was just laying all his things out on one of the beds! Coats, suits, shirts, sox, even his wife's 
That alligator bag his wife had on the bedpost 
What about it?
He had it hidden in the dresser! Well, at least it was in there. He took it out, went to the phone and called somebody long distance.  His wife's jewelry was in the handbag. And something about it worried him. He was asking somebody advice over the phone.
Someone not his wife?
I never saw him ask her for advise before. But she volunteered plenty.
I wonder where he's going now?
I don't know.
Suppose he doesn't come back again?
He will. All his things are still piled on the bed.
Well, I guess it's safe to put on some lights now.
Not yet!
All day long I've tried to keep my mind on work.
Thinking about Thorwald?
And you, and you friend Doyle  Did you hear from him again  since he left?
Not a word. He was going to check on the railroad station, and the trunk. He must be still on it.
Something on your mind, Lisa?
It doesn't make sense to me.
What doesn't?
Women aren't that unpredictable.
Lisa  I can't guess what you're thinking.
A woman has a favorite handbag  it always hangs on her bedpost where she can get at it. Then she takes a trip and leaves it behind. Why?
Because she didn't know she was going on a trip  and where she was going she wouldn't need a handbag.
But only her husband would know that. And the jewelry! Women don't keep all their jewelry in a purse, all tangled, getting scratched and twisted up.
Do they hide it in their husband's clothes?
They do not! And they don't leave it behind them. A woman going anywhere but the hospital would always take makeup, perfume and jewelry.
Inside stuff?
Basic equipment. You don't leave it behind in your husband's drawer in your favorite handbag.
I'm with you, sweetie, but Detective Thomas J. Doyle has a pat answer for that.
That Mrs. Thorwald left at six ayem yesterday with her husband?
That's what the witnesses told him.
Well, I have a pat rebuttal for Mr. Doyle  that couldn't be Mrs. Thorwald  or I don't know women.
Still  those witnesses.
We'll agree they saw a woman  but she wasn't Mrs. Thorwald.  That is, yet.
I'd like to see your friend's face when we tell him. He doesn't sound like much of a detective.
Don't be too hard on him. He's a steady worker. I wish he'd get there, though.
Don't rush me. We have all night.
We have all  what?
Night. I'm going to stay with you.
You'll have to clear that through my landlord 
I have the whole weekend off.
Well that's fine, but I only have one bed, and 
Say anything else, and I'll stay tomorrow night too.
Lisa, I won't be able to give you any 
You said I'd have to live out of one suitcase I'll bet yours isn't this small?
That's a suitcase?
A Mark Cross overnight case, anyway. Compact, but ample enough.
I'll trade you  my feminine intuition for a bed for the night.
I'd be no better than Thorwald, to refuse.
From his landlord  once a month.
It's utterly beautiful. I wish I could be creative.
You are. You have a talent for creating difficult situations.
I do?
Staying the night here, uninvited.
Surprise  is the most important element of attack. And beside, you're not up on your private eye literature. When they're in trouble, it's always their Girl Friday who gets them out of it.
The same girl who keeps him out of the clutches of seductive show girls, and overpassionate daughters of the rich.
The same.
But he never ends up marrying her. Strange.
Weird. Why don't I slip into something comfortable?
You mean  like the kitchen? And make us some coffee?
Exactly what I had in mind  along with some brandy.
I hate funny exit lines.
Who was the trunk addressed to?
Do you suppose it's ethical to watch a man with binoculars, and a long focus lens  until you can see the freckles on the back of his neck, and almost read his mail  do you suppose it's ethical even if you prove he didn't commit a crime?
I'm not much on rear window ethics.
Of course, they have the same chance. They can look at me like a bug under glass, if they want to.
Jeff  if anybody walked in here, I don't think they'd believe what they see.
Huh?
You and me with long faces  plunged into despair  because we find out that a man didn't kill his wife. We're two of the most frightening ghouls I've ever known.
Whatever happened to that old saying "Love Thy Neighbor."
I think I'll start reviving it tomorrow, with say  Miss Torso for a start?
Did Mr. Doyle think I stole this case.
No, Lisa  I don't think he did.
I'll rephrase the question.
Thank you.
Do you like it?
Well,  if there was one less thread this way   and two less that way   I might give up bachelorhood.
For a minute, Doyle almost had me convinced I was wrong.
But you're not?
In the whole courtyard, only one person didn't come to the window.
Do you think this was worth waiting all day to see?
Is he cleaning house?
He's washing down the bathroom walls.
Well?
It's just a picture of the backyard, that's all.
I know. But there's one important change. The flowers in Thorwald's pet flower bed.
Something's in there. Those flowers have been taken up, and put back again.
It could be  the knife, and the saw.
Wasn't that close?
Too close.
Suppose Mrs. Thorwald's wedding ring was among the jewelry he has in the handbag. During that phone conversation he held up three rings  one with a diamond  one with a big stone of some kind  and one plain gold band.
And the last thing she'd leave behind would be her wedding ring! Do you ever leave yours at home?
Jeff, if you're squeamish, just don't look.
Now hold on. I'm not a bit squeamish about what might be under those flowers  but I don't care to watch two women end up like that dog 
What for?
Maybe I can get Thorwald out of the apartment.
I'll try to give you at least fifteen minutes.
How?
Chelsea 27099. We scared him once. Maybe we can scare him again. I'm using that word "we" a little too freely, I guess. I don't take any of the chances.
Shall we vote him in, Stella?
Get an ambulance. Don't move. Try to lie still.
Lisa  I  I  can't tell you how scared I was that you  you might 
Shut up. I'm all right.
Think you've got enough for a search warrant now?
Hello.
Mrs. Doyle?
Yes.
Jeff again. Has Tom come in yet?
Not yet, Jeff.
You haven't even heard from him?
Not a word.
It is something really important, Jeff?
I'm afraid it is, Tess.
I'll have him call the moment I hear from him.
Tell him not to waste time calling. To get over here soon as he can. I think Thorwald's pulling out tonight.
Who's Thorwald?
He knows. Don't worry, Tess. It's a man.
Goodnight, you idiot.
Goodnight, Mrs Doyle.
Readers' Digest, April, 1939.
Well, I only quote from the best.
I predicted it.
How?
Stella  in economics, a kidney ailment has no relationship to the stock market. Absolutely none.
It crashed, didn't it?
Right now I'd even welcome trouble.
You've got a hormone deficiency.
How can you tell that from a thermometer!
Those sultry sunworshipers you watch haven't raised your temperature one degree in four weeks.
I knew it!
Don't you ever heat that stuff up.
Gives your circulation something to fight. What kind of trouble?
Lisa Fremont.
You must be kidding. A beautiful young woman, and you a reasonably healthy specimen of manhood.
She expects me to marry her.
That's normal.
I don't want to.
That's abnormal.
I'm not ready for marriage.
Nonsense. A man is always ready for marriage  with the right girl. And Lisa Fremont is the right girl for any man with half a brain, who can get one eye open.
She's all right.
Behind every ridiculous statement is always hidden the true cause. What is it? You have a fight?
No.
Her father loading up the shotgun?
Stella!
It's happened before, you know! Some of the world's happiest marriage have started 'under the gun' you might say.
She's just not the girl for me.
She's only perfect.
Too perfect. Too beautiful, too talented, too sophisticated, too everything  but what I want.
Is what you want something you can discuss?
It's very simple. She belongs in that rarefied atmosphere of Park Avenue, expensive restaurants, and literary cocktail parties.
People with sense can belong wherever they're put.
Can you see her tramping around the world with a camera bum who never has more than a week's salary in the bank? If only she was ordinary.
You're never going to marry?
Probably. But when I do, it'll be to someone who thinks of life as more than a new dress, a lobster dinner, and the latest scandal. I need a woman who'll go anywhere, do anything, and love it.
The only honest thing to do is call it off. Let her look for somebody else.
I can just hear you now. "Get out of here you perfect, wonderful woman! You're too good for me!"
That's the hard part.
Look, Mr. Jefferies. I'm not educated. I'm not even sophisticated. But I can tell you this  when a man and a woman see each other, and like each other  they should come together  wham like two taxies on Broadway. Not sit around studying each other like specimens in at bottle.
There's an intelligent way to approach marriage.
Intelligence! Nothing has caused the human race more trouble. Modern marriage!
We've progressed emotionally in 
Baloney! Once it was see somebody, get excited, get married  Now, it's read books, fence with four syllable words, psychoanalyze each other until you can't tell a petting party from a civil service exam
People have different emotional levels that 
Ask for trouble and you get it. Why there's a good boy in my neighborhood who went with a nice girl across the street for three years. Then he refused to marry her. Why?  Because she only scored sixtyone on a Look Magazine marriage quiz!
When I married Myles, we were both maladjusted misfits. We still are. And we've loved every minute of it.
That's fine, Stella. Now would you make me a sandwich?
Okay  but I'm going to spread some common sense on the bread. Lisa Fremont's loaded to her fingertips with love for you. I'll give you two words of advice. Marry her.
She pay you much?
The insurance Company would be a lot happier if you slept in your bed, not the wheelchair.
How did you know!
Eyes bloodshot. Must have been staring out the window for hours.
I was.
What'll you do if one of them catches you?
Depends one which one.
Keep your mind off her.
She's real eat, drink and be merry girl.
And she'll end up fat, alcoholic and miserable.
Speaking of misery, Miss Lonely Hearts drank herself to sleep again. Alone.
Poor girl. Someday she'll find her happiness.
And some man will lose his.
Isn't there anyone in the neighborhood who might cast an eye in her direction?
Well, the salesman could be available soon.
He and his wife splitting up?
It's hard to figure. He went out several time last night, in the rain carrying his sample case.
Isn't he a salesman?
Now what could he sell at three in the morning?
Flashlights. Luminous dials for watches. House numbers that light up.
He was taking something out of the apartment. I'm certain.
His personal effects. He's probably running away  the coward.
Sometimes it's worse to stay than it is to run.
But it takes a particularly low type of man to do it.
What about this morning? Any developments?
No. The shades are still drawn in their apartment.
In this heat? They're up now.
A Federal offense.
Get back there! He'll see you!
I'm not shy. I've been looked at before.
It's not an ordinary look. It's the kind of look a man gives when he's afraid somebody might be watching him.
Goodbye, Mr. Jefferies. I'll see you tomorrow.
Uhhuh.
Stella, I  I can't tell you what a welcome sight this is. No wonder your husband's still in love with you.
Police?
Huh?
You called the police?
Oh. Well, yes and no. It wasn't an official call. He's just a friend. An old, ornery friend.
I'm just going to get the name of their truck!
I'll watch the alleyway  in case it goes that way.
Mrs. Thorwald?
Uhuh. The dog. I think I know now why Thorwald killed it.
You mean the one the dog was sniffing around?
And digging in. Look at that flower bed.
There's a dip at this end. And since when do flowers grow shorter in two weeks?
There's something buried there.
You shouldn't have let her do that! If he ever 
Look!
Thank heaven that's over!
I have a feeling we've just begun.
I wonder.
What?
Miss Lonely Hearts just laid out something that looks like sodium trieckonal capsules.
You can tell that from here?
I handled enough of those red pills to put everybody in New Jersey asleep for the winter.
Would four of them  ?
No  but it makes the rest easy to take. And she's reading the Bible.
Then I wouldn't worry too much. But let's keep an eye on her.
You know? You might not be too bad a bargain for Lisa after all.
You don't say! I might just take that compliment as an insult.
What are you two talking about?
Got a shovel?
No.
There's probably one in the basement.
Now wait a minute 
You know, Miss Fremont  he might just have something there.
There's no point in taking unnecessary chances. Give me the phone book, Lisa.
What's she trying to do? Why doesn't she turn him in?
Smart girl.
Smart? She'll be arrested!
That'll get her out of there, won't it?
When you took your first snapshot  did you ever think it would bring you to this?
Stella  how long do you think he'll stay there?
Unless he's dumber than I think, he won't wait 'til his lease is up.
What do you need money for?
To bail Lisa out of jail.
One hundred and twentyseven.
How much do you think you'll need?
First offense burglary   probably twofifty. The piggy bank.
Ten here.
Thirtythree here. Totals oneninety. Not enough.
I got twenty or so in my purse. Give me what you've got.
What about the rest?
When those cops get a look at Miss Fremont  they'll even contribute.
Hello.
Did you get my note?
Well  did you get it, Thorwald?
Who are you?
I'll give you a chance to find out. Meet me in the bar at the Brevoort  and do it right away.
Why should I?
For a little business meeting  to settle the estate of your late wife.
I don't know what you mean.
Now stop wasting time, Thorwald, or I'll hang up and call the police.
I only have a hundred dollars or so.
That's a start. I'm at the Brevoort now. I'll be looking for you.
Can you get me that ring back?
No.
Tell her to bring it back!
I can't. The police have it by now.
Then if the police get me  you won't be around to laugh!
Jefferies.
Congratulations, Jeff.
For what?
For getting rid of that cast.
Who said I was getting rid of it?
This is Wednesday.
Gunnison  how did you get to be such a big editor  with such a small memory?
Wrong day?
Wrong week. Next Wednesday I emerge from this plaster cocoon.
That's too bad, Jeff. Well, I guess I can't be lucky every day. Forget I called.
Yeah. I sure feel sorry for you, Gunnison. Must be rough on you thinking of me wearing this cast another whole week.
Where?
IndoChina. Got a code tip from the bureau chief this morning. The place is about to go up in smoke.
Didn't I tell you! Didn't I tell you it was the next place to watch?
You did.
Okay. When do I leave? Halfhour? An hour?
With that cast on  you don't.
Stop sounding stuffy. I'll take pictures from a jeep. From a water buffalo if necessary.
You're too valuable to the magazine for us to play around with. I'll send Morgan or Lambert.
Swell. I get myself halfkilled for you  and you reward me by stealing my assignments.
I didn't ask you to stand in the middle of that automobile race track.
You asked for something dramatically different! You got it!
So did you. Goodbye, Jeff.
You've got to get me out of here! Six weeks  sitting in a tworoom apartment with nothing to do but look out the window at the neighbors!
Read some good books.
I've been taking pictures so long I don't know how to read anymore.
I'll send you some comic books.
Listen  if you don't pull me out of this swamp of boredom  I'll do something drastic.
Like what?
I'll  I'll get married. Then I'll never be able to go anywhere.
It's about time you got married  before you turn into a lonesome and bitter old man.
Can you see me  rushing home to a hot apartment every night to listen to the automatic laundry, the electric dishwasher, the garbage disposal and a nagging wife.
Jeff  wives don't nag anymore  they discuss.
Yeah? Maybe in the high rent districts they discuss  but in my neighborhood, they still nag.
Well  you know best. Call you later, Jeff.
Next time, have some good news.
Hello.
Gunnison?
Yeah. Is that you, Jeff?
It's me.
Something wrong?
The word is "everything." Now what time does my plane leave Tuesday?
Jeff 
I don't care where it goes  just as long as I'm on it.
Okay. IndoChina. Tuesday. We'll pick you up.
That's more like it. Goodnight, old buddy.
Yeah.
You didn't see the killing, or the body? How do you know there was a murder?
Because everything that man's done has been suspicious. Trips at night in the rain, saws, knives, trunks with rope, and a wife that isn't there any more.
I'll admit it all has a mysterious sound  but is could mean a number of different things. Murder is the least likely.
Go ahead, Doyle  tell me he's an unemployed magician  amusing the neighborhood with sleightofhand.
It's too stupid and obvious a way to murder  in full view of fifty windows  and then sit over there   smoking a cigar  waiting for the police to pick him up.
Well, officer  do your duty.
You've got a lot to lean about homicide, Jeff. Morons have committed murder so shrewdly that it took a hundred trained police minds to catch them. That salesman wouldn't just knock off his wife after dinner, toss her in a trunk and put her in storage.
I'll bet it's been done.
Almost everything's been done  under panic. But this is a thousand to one shot. That man's still sitting around his apartment; he isn't panicked.
You think I made all this up?
I think you saw something  that probably has a very simple explanation.
For instance?
His wife took a trip.
She  was  an  invalid!
You told me. I've got to run, Jeff.
All right  you don't believe me.
I  uh  won't report it to the Department. Let me poke into a little on my own. No point in you getting any ridiculous publicity.
Thanks.
We know the wife is gone. I'll see if I can find out where.
Do that.
By the way what happened to your leg?
I was jaywalking.
He has a six months lease, and has used up a little over five and a half months of it. Quiet. Drinks, but not to drunkenness. Pays his bill promptly, with money earned as a consume jewelry salesman  wholesale. Keeps to himself, and none of the neighbors got close to him, or his wife.
I think they missed their chance with her.
She never left the apartment 
Then where is she  in the ice box?
 until yesterday morning.
What time?
Six ayem.
I think that's about the time I fell asleep.
Too bad. The Thorwalds were just leaving the apartment house at that time.
Feel a little foolish?
Not yet.
Who said they left then?
Who left  where?
The Thorwalds  at six in the morning?
The building superintendent, and two tenants. Flat statements  no hesitation. And they all jibed to the letter. The Thorwalds were leaving for the railroad station.
Now how could anybody guess that? They had, perhaps, signs on their luggage, "Grand Central Or Bust!"?
The superintendent met Thorwald coming back. He said Thorwald told him he had just put his wife on the train for the country.
A very convenient guy  this superintendent. Have you checked his bank deposits lately?
Jeff  huh?
Well  what good is his information?!! It's a secondhand version of an unsupported statement by the murderer himself  Thorwald! Anybody actually see the wife get on the train?
I hate to remind you  but this all started because you said she was murdered. Now did anyone, including you, actually see her murdered?
Doyle  are you interested in solving a case, or making me look foolish?
If possible  both.
Well then do a good job of it! Get over there, and search Thorwald's apartment! It must be kneedeep in evidence.
I can't do that.
I mean when he goes out for a paper, or a drink, or something. What he doesn't know won't hurt him.
I can't do it even if he's gone.
What's the matter? Does he have a courtesy card from the police department?
Now don't get me mad! Even a detective can't walk in anybody's apartment and search it. If I were ever caught in there, I'd lose my badge inside of ten minutes!
Just make sure you're not caught. If you find something, you've got a murderer and nobody will care about a couple of house rules. If you find nothing  he's clear.
At the risk of sounding stuffy, Jeff  I'll remind you of the Constitution, and the phrase "search warrant" issued by a judge who knows the Bill of Rights verbatim. He must ask for evidence.
Give him evidence.
I can hear myself starting out. "Your Honor  I have a friend who's an amateur sleuth, an one night, after a heavy supper " He'd throw the New York State Penal Code right in my face.  And it's six volumes.
By morning there might not be anything left to find in his apartment.
A detective's nightmare.
What do you need before you can search  bloody footsteps leading up to the door?
One thing I don't need is heckling! You called and asked me for help  and now you're acting like a taxpayer!
How did we ever stand each other in that same plane for three years?
You know, every day for three years I asked myself that same question?
Ever get an answer?
Yeah  frequently  it ran something like this: "Your request for transfer turned down "
Forget the story  find the trunk. Mrs. Thorwald's in it!
Oh  I almost forgot!
Is  is Anna  who I think it is?
Mrs. Thorwald.
Enough to scare me that you wouldn't get here in time, and we'd lose him.
You think he's getting out of here?
Everything he owns is laid out on the bedroom, ready for packing.
Jewelry?
He has his wife's jewelry hidden in among his clothes over there.
You sure it belongs to his wife?
That wasn't Mrs. Thorwald who left with him yesterday morning?
You figured that out, huh?
Did you ever own a saw?
Well, in the garage, back home, we 
And how many people did you cut up with the couple of with it? Or hundred knives you've probably owned in your lifetime?
But I'm not a killer!
Your logic is backward.
If I'd been careful piloting that reconnaissance plane, you wouldn't have taken the kind of pictures that got you a medal, a big job, fame, money 
All the things I hate.
Oh  that phone call! I gave them your number  hope you don't mind.
That depends on who "they" were.
The police Department at Merritsville. They called to report. The trunk was just picked up  by Mrs. Anna Thorwald.
Jefferies.
This is Doyle, Jeff.
Tom, I've got something real big for you.
Look Jeff, don't louse up my night with another man killer stuffing a grisly trunk that turns out to be 
Listen to me! Lisa's been arrested.
Your Lisa?
My Lisa. She went into Thorwald's apartment, and he came back. The only way I could get her out was to call the police.
I told you that 
I know what you told me! She went in to get evidence, and she came out with it.
Like what?
Like Mrs. Thorwald's wedding ring. If that woman were still alive, she'd be wearing it.
A possibility.
A fact! Last night he killed a dog for pawing in his garden. Why? Because he had something buried in there. Something a dog could scent.
Like an old hambone?
I don't know what pet name Thorwald had for his wife. And that night he went out half a dozen times with the metal suitcase. He wasn't taking his possessions, because they're up in his apartment now!
You think perhaps it was "old hambone?"
In sections! And one other thing, doubting Tom  it just occurred to me that all the calls Thorwald made were long distance! If he called his wife the day she left  after she arrived in Merritsville  why did she need to send him a postcard saying she'd arrived?
Where'd they take Lisa?
Precinct Six. I sent a friend over with bail money.
Maybe you won't need it. I'll run it down, Jeff.
Just don't dally. Thorwald knows he's being watched. He won't hang around long.
If that ring checks out, we'll give him an escort. So long.
It was in her favorite handbag  And, Mr. Doyle, that can lead to only one conclusion.
Namely?
Like disposing of their wives?
Get that idea out of your mind. It will only lead you in the wrong direction.
Of course, it's normal for a man to tie his trunk up with a heavy rope.
When the lock is broken  yes.
Mrs.  Thorwald's  clothes.  Clean  carefully packed  not too stylish  but presentable.
Didn't you take it to the crime lab?
I would say that is looked as if she wasn't coming back.
That's what they call a family problem.
IndoChina  Jeff predicted it would go skyhigh.
From the looks of Davidson's cable, it might even go higher than that. And we haven't even got a camera over there.
This could go off in a month  or an hour.
I'll pull somebody out of Japan.
Bryce, the only man for this job is sitting right here in town. Get me L. B. Jefferies.
Jefferies?
Name me a better photographer.
But his leg!
Don't worry  it comes off today.
This is Doyle's house.
This is L. B. Jefferies, a friend of Tom's. Who am I talking with?
This is the baby sitter.
Oh. When are they expected home?
I'm hired 'til one. They went to dinner and maybe nightclubbing.
Well, if he calls in, tell him to get in touch with L. B. Jefferies right away. I might have quite a surprise for him.
Does he have your number, Mr. Jefferies?
He has it. Thank you.
Goodnight.
What're you doin' with Salvy? You shouldn't be here with him. Jake's away killin' himself. Suppose he found out.
What the hell am I doing wrong? Just because Jake is training, I can't go out? What am I, a goddamn prisoner?
No, you're his wife.
I'm not doing anything wrong. I'm just trying to have a good time. Do I have to be cooped up in the house all the time?
It don't look right.
Well, go ahead, tell Jake. He's gonna kill me anyway. It's a matter of time.
I'm not gonna tell him nothing; but if he finds out, he will kill you. What's the matter with you? Aren't you happy? You got everything you want.
You don't sleep with him. I do. I don't get to breathe without tellin' him. He keeps me in a cage. If he thinks I'm lookin' at somebody the wrong way, I get used as a punching bag. He don't trust nobody. If he saw the two of us talking together right now, you'd be in trouble too  believe me. Look at me, Joey. I'm 19 years old. I wanna enjoy my life. I love Jake, but you don't know. He gets crazy sometimes. I'm scared.
Try to understand, Vickie. Jake's got a lotta aggravation. He's been a top contender too long.
That's right, take his part. You're his brother. He's never gonna be champ. Too many people are against him.
And you're drinking with them right now.
And I'm gonna finish my drink. And, I'm gonna have a good time, because I ain't doing nothing wrong.
Salvy, would I steer you wrong? Let's say that's the truck; it's full of cigarettes, right? Now, two o'clock this morning we move the truck from here to there, take the cigarettes out, sell 'em, make some cash.
Hey but Joey, you're thinking nickels and dimes. The money's with your brother.
What do you want from my life, Salvy? He's my brother.
He ain't doin' the right thing. He's makin' beans compared to what he should be makin'. Can't you make him understand that?
Hey, leave the kids alone.
Get lost. Hey kids, "A cop is a rat." Remember that, "A rat."
I can't convince him. He's got such a thick head, I'd like to crack it open myself. Believe me, my own brother. It's very hard. You don't have to convince me  I know we should be with Tommy. You talk to him. He don't listen to nobody.
Look, I'm just tellin' you how Tommy feels. Jake is makin' it hard on himself. Tommy wants him with us. It's as simple as that.
Talk some sense into him, will ya? You're still his brother. If he ain't gonna listen to you, he ain't gonna listen to nobody!
All right, I'll try. See you later.
Tomorrow, at the gym. Don't forget.
Right, the gym.
I said, let's go.
Joey, relax. You're taking this the wrong way. Why don't you sit down and have a drink?
Excuse me, I'm talking to my sister inlaw.
Excuse me for living.
What do you think, I'm blind? My brother's breaking his ass in a ring, and you're here with his wife.
Hey Joey, I'm here with Patsy and Vera and Sandy. And Vickie just happened to come along. We're just trying to have a good time. What do you want from me? So, why don't you just take it easy before this gets out of hand.
Hey Joey, whadda ya lookin' to die young?
I'll suck your eyes out! I'll fuckin' take the two of you.
Hi, Tommy. How are you?
Jake, sit down for a minute.
Fuckin' kid! You're the best fuckin' fighter around. Loved what you did to Satterfield. Them "moulan yans"  forget about it. They're all afraid to fight you.
C'mon, Tommy 
How you feelin'? Ok? You feelin' good?
Never felt better.
Tony Janiro's gotta watch out, eh?
He should.
This Janiro's a good fighter, pretty goodlookin' kid.
How's the weight? Ok?
Yeah, the weight's Ok.
All right, lemme ask you something. Let's say I was a good friend of yours. And I was telling you I was gonna bet a lot of money on you in this Janiro fight. What would you tell me?
I'd tell you to bet a bundle.
Joey said you wanted to meet me. Is that right? You wanted to meet me?
I just wanted to say hello.
You wanted to say hello, eh? I can't believe it. When did you fall outa heaven? Anyone ever tell you you're the most beautiful one here, princess of the pool. You got a baby face. Look at mine. Whatcha wanna meet me for?
I don't know. 'Cause you're cute.
Ya hear, Joey? She thinks this face is cute? Hey, whatcha doin' now? You wanna go for a ride?
You don't talk very much.
I ain't ever talked to a movie star before.
I ain't no movie star. I'm just in high school.
Oh no? I thought you was a movie star.
You go first. Let me watch how to do this.
You don't get nothin' done by watchin'. You just gotta do it. Here, I'll help you.
That's it. Just grip up a little tighter. That's it. You're gonna be real good at this. How does that feel?
It feels real good.
Just keep your eye on the ball.
Should I hit it?
Just give it a nice little tap.
I can't find my ball.
Can you see it?
Can you see it?
No.
What does that mean?
Jake, this is your father's bedroom.
That's all right. He don't mind.
Jake...
It's OK.
Are you sure we should be doing this?
Come over here.
You said never to touch you before a fight.
If you let me do it, I'll murder you. Come here.
You said I couldn't. You've been good for two weeks...
Come here.
Take off my pants.
Jake...
Do what I say.
Now take the rest off.
Jake, you made me promise not to get you excited.
Go 'head. Do it.
I like the gym smell.
Now take your panties off.
Now, touch me... ...here.
Oh, Jake.
Joey's right. Janiro's upand coming, he's good looking...
What do you mean, "good looking?"
Well, he's popular. A lotta people like Janiro. You beat him and it only figures they'll wanna see you get a title shot. But, what do I know? I should keep my mouth shut, I should...
Who asked you?
But, Jake, I was just...
Who asked you?
I was just...
Who asked you?
What're you lookin' at? You lookin' at him?
No, I'm not. I'm looking at you.
Don't tell me "No." I saw you lookin' at him. Why, you like him?
I'm not interested in him.
You're not interested in him?
No, I'm not.
In other words, you're not interested in him but you'd be interested in somebody else, right?
Jake, c'mon now. Don't start.
Look at this, all of a sudden everybody's a fuckin' Romeo around here. Did you see the way she was lookin' at him?
Vickie?... Vickie, you asleep?
What?
You asleep?
Yeah.
Huh?
Yeah, what?
Tell me, you think of anybody else when I'm making love to you?
Nobody. I love you, remember?
Then why'd you say that thing about Tony Janiro?
What did I say?
That he's got a pretty face.
I never noticed his face.
You sure you're not thinking of him right now?
Positive.
You're the one who said he was good looking. You think he's good looking 'cause I know you think he's good looking. I'll smash his face inside out. I'll make him into dog meat. Nobody's gonna think he's goodlooking when I get through with him. So you just go ahead and think about who you want.
Hey, you don't say goodbye to him like that.
What did I do?
You don't kiss like that. Hello and goodbye, that's all you do.
All I did...
You know what I'm talking about. Don't ever make me look bad on the night of my big fight.
You're hurting my arm.
But Jake... I didn't say anything...
Don't ever do that again. You don't do it!
Jake...
What's the matter with you?
Tryin' to get this fuckin' TV to work. Paid all this money for it and still can't get a station a mile away. And Mr. Wizard here ain't no help.
I went out.
What's that kissing on the mouth shit?
Where you been all day?
I took the kids to my sister's.
I called. You weren't there.
I got bored so I went to the movies.
What'd you see?
I went to the movies.
What'd you see?
"Father of the Bride."
What was it about?
Oh, c'mon. For Christsake, do I have to tell you everything?
Did you ever go to the Copa when I was away?
What're you talking about?
Answer me when I talk to you. What happened that night?
I am answering...
What do I have to do to get a straight answer around here.
Jake, no 
Do I have to kill you, eh? Do I have to kill somebody to get an answer? I know about you at the Copa. I know all about it.
I didn't do anything wrong. I swear. I just had a few drinks.
With Salvy, eh?
I went with Sandy and Vera. Salvy was there. Stop it. I just had a drink, that's all. I didn't do anything wrong.
Come out of there! Did you fuck Salvy? Answer me. Open this fuckin' door, you fuckin' cunt! Who've you been fuckin'?
Nobody, I tell you. Jake stop it.
You're a fuckin' liar.
I'll say anything you want me to say. I fuckled Salvy. I fucked Tommy. I fucked your brother. I fucked everybody! What do you want to hear? I sucked your brother's fuckin' cock!
You did?
Yeah, I sucked his cock.
You're killing him. You're killing him for nothing. Stop it.
Get the fuck outa here. Whadda you mean nothing'? You stupid bitch!
Nothing is what I said! Go on, kill me. Kill me. I'm not afraid of you anymore. I don't care if you kill me like you're killing him. You're a sick animal.
You're the fuckin' animal! You ran around with every guy I knew while I was breakin' my ass for you.
You're not only an animal, you're a stupid animal. You're rotten. Rotten. Rotten. You're a sick maniac. A maniac! You belong in a mental hospital.
You know, if there's one thing  I just don't understand you, not one single little bit. You love me?
Yeah 
Jake, why don't you just try lying down and get some rest.
I don't know what it is. I dunno, it's the kind of thing that  the words won't come out.
Jake 
What?
I want to say something to you without you blowing your stack.
OK. Talk.
Why don't you just call him up?
What do I say to him? Call him up on the phone and say, "Joey, I'm sorry about that little trouble we had. How about havin' dinner?" Is that what I say?
No, not that.
Then what?
I don't know.
I miss Joey. I wish Joey was here.
Why don't you just call him?
I dunno.
Tell him how you feel  you miss him. Tell him you're sorry.
Ok, all right. Telephone's in the hall. Dial his number.
I'm sorry. I had to work late last night. Slept at the club.
I'm leaving you Jake.
Sure, what else is new?
No. This time it's true. I didn't bother to tell you until I had everything worked out.
Open the door, Vickie.
No. I won't talk to you where you can use your hands on me.
Aw, c'mon. Don't say that.
I got a lawyer, Jake. We're getting a divorce. I'm getting custody of the kids.
Aw, c'mon, Vick 
I'm sick of it. I can't watch you this way. You're too drunk all the time. There's too many girls. I can't... I don't wanna talk about it. I made up my mind.
Vickie, open up. I need to come in.
Are you drunk?
No. Open the door.
The kids are sleeping.
I promise I just gotta pick up one thing.
All right, just don't make any noise.
What are you doing?
I need ten thousand dollars. My lawyer says if we can spread ten thousand bucks around, we can get the case dropped.
But they don't have a case against you.
Are you kiddin'? Did you ever see a 14yearold testify in court? Did you see the papers? "LaMotta on Vice Rap." Everybody likes a shot at the Champ.
Jake, be careful! What're you doing to the belt?!
Don't make no difference no more.
Can't you get the money from your friends?
What friends?
Don't fight anymore! It's a free country, don't fight anymore!
Why did they have to stop it? Why did they have to stop it?
It ain't worth it, Jake. Get out.
What time is it?
Nine o'clock.
At night?
Yeah. At night.
How many pounds I gotta lose?
Three more, I figure.
Just give me a chip of ice to put in my mouth. Just a chip of ice.
I'll give you anything you want, Jake. I think you should come out for a few minutes  give yourself a break.
Are you outa your mind? If I come out, I'll lose the title.
He ain't hurting me, but I can't get him down.
Don't talk. Keep at it. Jab, jab, jab. You're ahead on points.
I'm tellin' you now, when I read this, it better not make me look bad.
Jake, did I ever make you look bad before?
Maybe it wasn't you, but you know what I'm talkin' about.
Why not? There's nobody else around who wants to fight me; they're all afraid. I don't see why I shouldn't have a shot at the title right now.
Well, the word is to get a title shot you have to cooperate with the people who control boxing, in New York. And they're saying that you don't cooperate.
You guys know more about that than I do. I just fight...
You just fought Sugar Ray two weeks ago and you're training like this right now... Are you afraid Sugar Ray might beat you this time?
I tell you what. You hit me here. Sugar Ray hits me here. I can't tell the difference. I just fight.
I'm pulling out of next Wednesday's TV bout 'cause I can't make the weight. I'm fighting at light heavyweight, and I still can't make the weight.
Does that mean...
It means I'm through with boxing. I'm tired with tryin' to make the weight anymore. I'm sick of thinkin' about weight, weight, weight.
You sound bitter.
Why should I be bitter? Boxing's been good to me. I got a nice house, three kids, a beautiful wife  take a picture of her. Vickie.
Ain't she beautiful? Coulda been Mrs. America if I didn't pull her outa the contest. Didn't want her wearing a swimsuit for nobody but me.
What do you think of Jake's retirement, Mrs. LaMotta?
What's wrong?
Nothing...
Hey, c'mon, what's the matter?
I ain't ever gonna fight Joe Louis, that's what's the matter.
What're you talking about? He's a heavyweight. You're a middleweight.
That's what I'm sayin'. You shouldn't even think like that. It's crazy.
I tell you one thing. Ok, I'll never be big enough to fight Louis, but I know Joey, I know...
You know?
Yeah. Do me a favor.
Sure. What is it?
Hit me in the face.
You want me to do what?
You heard me, I said hit me.
C'mon, Jack. You had a few drinks.
Go ahead. I ain't drunk. Take your best shot. On the jaw.
Jack, I got no gloves.
Here's your glove.
Harder. Take the towel off.
Jack! Enough!
Go ahead.
What was that for? I know you can take punches. I can hit you from now to doomsday. What the fuck does that prove?
See that, I don't feel it. I can take it. I know I can take anybody.
Answer me when I talk to you.
Yeah, yeah. They just wanted to talk to you. So I...
Don't ever bring those kids up here again! I'm working out, I'm killin' myself in here, and they walk around like they fuckin' own the neighborhood.
And that hardon, Salvy. Who's he think he is? I'm gonna let that fuckin' hardon come up here and act like a big shot.
What are you getting so hot about  Tommy Como told him to come down here...
Hey, I don't care about Tommy Como. I don't care about Jesus Christ on the fuckin' cross. I gotta give them a percentage of what I make! I'm in here breaking my ass, not them. Don't ever bring them up here again.
I didn't tell them to come. Tommy Como...
Who's that?
Whadda you care?
Whadda ya mean, whadda I care? Who is she? What's a matter? You afraid I'm gonna take her on you?
No, I'm not afraid. Why? You wanna meet her?
Yeah 
Cause I'll go right over there and bring her here.
Go 'head.
You sure you wanna meet her? Don't make me go over there, you change your mind and you make me look bad, cause she's really a knockout. She's 15, this kid  a great piece of ass.
How do you know? You know her that good?
No, I see her around the pool. I know her. I know her like that  not like that.
Nah, not now... I wanna wait. I don't feel right...
I'm tellin' you, she'll be there, I know she'll be there.
'Cause I wanna catch her alone.
How you gonna catch anybody alone at a dance?... I don't know if she'll be there alone... She'll probably be there with her girlfriends or something.
She ever go with them? Like Salvy?
Nah, she don't go with nobody. She's only 15 years old.
What does that have to do with it? She don't look 15 to me. I heard somethin' with Salvy. She was with him once or somethin', I think. It was like some blonde. That's the one...
Probably. You know she talks to everybody, and not just him.
Yeah, she's nice.
Ah, some piece of ass, I'm tellin' you.
You wasn't with her, were you?
Huh?
You wasn't with her?
With her? How?
You know, like bang her or anything?
Ah, no, no. I didn't bang her. I know her from around here, that's all. You want to meet her or what?
Nah, not now  all those hardons around. I'll wait. Not now.
I'm tellin' you, she'll be there, I know she'll be there. Dressed up and everything.
I don't like all those other clowns around. That's all I know.
C'mon, hurry up. We're never gonna get outa here tonight.
Hey, watch your mouth. Don't talk like that. She's still my wife.
No, but Jake... how much abuse can you take.
How many times do I have to hit her? I hit her enough.
Do you see her yet?
Give me a chance. Let me look.
He fights the toughest guys around that everybody else is afraid to fight...
I'm the only guy ever to beat Sugar Ray, and I still don't have a shot at the title.
They robbed us! Those fuckin' judges  What the fuck fight were they watching? If I see them on the street, I'll break their heads. Decision Robinson, my fuckin' ass! Those judges give him the decision 'cause he's goin in the army next week! How else could this have happened?... What do you think they gave him the decision for, that's why.
Whadda I gotta do, Joey? I knocked him down. What did I do wrong? I don't understand.
You won and was robbed! You didn't do nothin' wrong.
I dunno. Maybe I don't deserve to win. I've done a lot of bad things. I dunno...
You want us to wait for you?
No, take her home. I wanna be alone for a while. Everybody go.
I just weighed myself  I'm 161. No more deals like this Janiro bullshit. I didn't tell you to do it in the first place.
Jake, you're the one who said you could get down to 155! What did I do, pull it out of the fuckin' hat?
Well, sometimes you shouldn't listen to me! Now I don't know if I can make it down to 155. I'm having trouble making 160, and without telling me, you sign me for a fight at 155 pounds, and if I don't make 155, I forfeit $15,000! You're supposed to know what you're doin'. You're supposed to be a manager!
You want the title shot?
Say what you're gonna say.
You want the title shot or not?
Say what you gotta say. Don't be a smart ass.
This Janiro's an upandcoming fighter, this kid you gotta knock out. Knockout this fuckin' kid! I'm telling you, this is your step towards getting a shot at the title. Listen to me: I'm telling you. You been killin' yourself for three years. There's nobody left  they're afraid to fight you. This Janiro's upand coming. He don't know. Fuckin' tear him apart, wipe him out! What are you worried about? Your weight? Look, even if you lose they're gonna think you're weak; they're gonna think you're not the fighter you used to be. They'll match you with guys they were afraid to match you with before, and then you'll kill them and you'll get your title shot. And if you beat this kid Janiro, they gotta give you a shot at the title because there's nobody else. Either way you win and you do it on your own  just like you want it. All right?
Nah, she would never...
Didn't you just see her lookin' at him? She told me no, but I don't believe her.
C'mon, Jake. You know she's crazy about you.
Excuse me for a minute. Be right back.
Don't be long. I'm afraid with all these tough guys here.
Whatcha doin'?
I remember the first time I met Vickie... I know there's somethin' up. I know she's doin' somethin', but I can't catch her...
Maybe she's afraid you're gonna hit her so she can't talk to you the way she wants to.
What do you mean?
Try talkin' to her. She's your wife  ask her what's the matter.
When I'm away, did you ever notice anythin' funny with her? Tell me the truth.
Jack, if there was anything funny, I would tell you.
I want you to keep an eye on her when I'm not here. Understand?
Sure, I'll keep an eye on her.
What did Tommy say?
I got good news, and I got bad news. The good news is you got your shot at the title. The bad news is...
Yeah, I know.
Stick out your hands, Jake.
C'mon, Joey.
G'wan, do it. Protect yourself, rummy.
See? That's all there was to it.
What the fuck they want? I took the dive. They want me to fall down too? I don't fall down for nobody. I never went down in my life. Joey, what do I gotta do? Crawl on my hands and knees? I made an asshole of myself in the fuckin' Garden! All the newspaper writers make fun of me. I'm the bum of the year. All I want is a shot. Just a fuckin' shot. What do I gotta do? I'll do anything.
Except fall down like a normal person.
Yeah, except fall down. That's right.
All right, you don't wanna fall down, so now you gotta take a rest. So, you enjoy the suspension. 'Cause there's nothin' you can do about it. Let the Commissioner and the D.A. jerk you around. So you wait.
Jesus Christ! Seven months! What am I gonna do for seven months? I'm gonna go crazy. How do I keep my strength? By that time I'll be too weak to win the title. And my weight? Forget about it  I'm gonna blow up like a balloon. I ain't never gonna hold my weight down. Seven months! I don't know...
We did what we had to do. Tommy don't forget. Sooner or later you'll get your shot  if Tommy don't die.
I'm gonna order up some stuff. Have a steak.
I can't eat a steak. If I eat a steak, I'm gonna have trouble making the weighin.
So eat just a little. You gotta eat something.
What am I gonna do for 24 hours? I can't even eat!
Screw you, Jack.
Where you been?
What? I just said hello. Since when I can't kiss my sisterinlaw?
Ain't a cheek ever good enough for you? I never even kissed Mama on the mouth.
Well, you're not supposed to kiss your mother on the mouth.
Well, that's what I mean.
How's that?
I can't tell. You're stomach's in the way.
Answer me somethin'. What happened at the Copa with Salvy when I was out of town?
When?
You know, when you gave him a beatin'.
Nothin'. Salvy was out of line. He was drunk or somethin', I dunno. Anyway, the windup was I gave him a beatin'. Tommy called me down, and we straightened it out. It's all forgotten about.
Why didn't you tell me about it?
It didn't have nothin' to do with you.
Didn't it have nothin' to do with me?
No, I just told you what happened.
Who did it have anything to do with... Vickie?
Jack, no. I just explained the whole thing to you. It was just between me and Salvy, if it had anything to do with you and Vickie, I woulda told you about it.
Well, I heard some things.
Whatever you touched, that's good now.
Did Salvy fuck Vickie?
What?
You're supposed to keep an eye on her for me. I'm askin'...
I did keep an eye...
Then why did you give him a beatin' if he didn't do anything? You and him been friends a long time.
Some things changed between us. Now, he thinks who the fuck he is. He's been passing certain remarks that I don't like.
Don't bullshit me, Joey. You ain't tellin' me the truth.
What bullshit? Hey, I'm your brother. You wanna believe me  you trust me?
When it comes to her, I don't trust nobody. I'm askin' you somethin'.
Well, you're wrong Jack. I'm tellin" you what happened. He got outta line, we had a fight, and it's straightened out now.
You givin' me that look. I gotta accept your word, but if I find out anythin', I'm gonna kill somebody...
So, go ahead. Kill everybody. Kill Salvy, kill Vickie, kill Tommy Como, kill me while you're at it. What do I care? You're killing yourself the way you're eating, the way you worry about things you don't have to worry about.
What do you mean, "you"?
What?
What do you mean, "you"?
I meant, kill everybody. You or me or anybody. You're a big shot. Kill, kill... g'head.
But you said "you."
So what?
Eh, Joey, even you don't know what you meant. You mentioned Salvy, Tommy Como, you  that means somethin'. Why'd you say them? You coulda said anybody.
You're worried about this girl, you're gonna let this girl ruin you're life for you... You wanna worry, worry about your fuckin' stomach that you can't bend over  that you gotta step in the ring in a month.
Did you ever fuck my wife?
What?
I don't mean now. I mean before  before we met.
Whadda ya mean?
Did you ever fuck my wife?
Whatsa matter with you?
You're very smart, Joey, very smart. Nobody gives me a straight answer around here. You're givin' me these answers, but you still didn't answer my question. Did you fuck Vickie?
I gotta go. I gotta get outta here. I can't take this shit. Lenore is waitin' for me. I gotta go. You're a definite wacko. You're fuckin' crazy, you know that, crazy.
Was Vickie part of the deal with Tommy? Was my wife part of the deal? Tell me, was that it?
Stop it. What're you, crazy?
J.R., glad you could make it.
You were great, Jake. Just like old times. Good thing Sugar Ray wasn't here tonight. Oh Jake, this is State's Attorney Bronson and his wife.
You're a good sport, lady.
I saw you fight Bob Satterfield in '46, Jake. In Chicago. You were great.
Yeah, I really cleaned up on him.
Where's your wife, Jake?
Do you think I'd let her in a place like this with guys like you hangin' around?
This looks done.
It's not done.
It looks done. I'll take it the way it is.
Here's your steak. You can't wait for it to be done. Here.
Here's your carrots. You're in such a hurry. You can't wait.
No, I can't wait. You know when I wait? When it's important to wait. It's not important to wait for no steak. It's important to wait for Reeves to leave the ring. It ain't important to wait for no steak! I won that fight. So, I stayed in the ring, and that way I made sure everybody knew it. I shoulda knocked him out earlier, sonofabitch.
Where you going at this hour?
What're you, a cop? I'm goin' out  business.
You fuckin' worm, if you're going out, I'm going out.
And where you goin'?
None of your fuckin' business.
What's up, Colonel?
I'd like to talk to Jake a minute.
What who's been sayin'?
You were a big favorite in this fight. Then two days ago the odds start jumping all over the place until you're a 125 underdog.
I don't follow no gamblin' Commissioner. I'm just a fighter.
Now the fight's off the books altogether. Meyer Lansky couldn't get a bet down on this fight. Some people are saying you're going into the tank.
Believe what you want.
I want to believe you, LaMotta.
I'm gonna kill him. That fuckin' jig's gonna wish he never came outa the jungle. You got any money?
What?
You got any money you want to bet on Billy Fox, you can put it right here... 'cause Jake LaMotta don't go down for nobody.
All right. I don't have to hear any more. I think I understand what happened. I understand it was your brother's wife and there was probably a misunderstanding. I'm not sayin' Salvy shouldn't have acted the way he did. But, Joey, you don't raise your hands. You don't do that kind of thing. This time we forget about it but no more after this. You understand?
Yeah, I understand, Tommy.
All right, you guys, shake hands.
Aside from everything else, your family all right?
Yeah, they're good. They're good, Tommy.
What is it with you? Can't you talk? You got like a funny attitude. I can't figure you out, Joey. What's with you and the quick answers? You wanna get outa here fast?
Aw, Tommy, c'mon, it ain't that.
Look Joey, I wanna tell you something. Your brother ain't gonna get nowhere without us  nowhere. And I'm tellin' you between the two of us, it's gettin' to the point where it's gettin' to be a real embarrassment to me, a real embarrassment.
How can he embarrass you?
He's an embarrassment because Frankie and the other guys are expectin' me to do something about it, and I'm lookin' very bad. I can't deliver a kid from my own neighborhood. Why's he make it so hard on himself? He comes to me, I can make it easier for him.
Tommy, Jake respects you. He won't even say hello to anybody else  you know that. But you know when Jake gets set on somethin', Jesus Christ Almighty could get off the fuckin' cross and he ain't gonna talk him out of it. I'm his kid brother. I got no say with Jake on this. He thinks he can buck everybody and make it on his own.
Make it on his own? Does he know the kind of money involved? I mean the real money. He thinks he's gonna become champ on his own? We're gonna sit by and see some nut come in there and hold one of the most important titles in the world? A nut who don't listen to nobody or respect nobody? Is he really crazy? Listen, Joey, you understand, you tell him. I don't care how great he is or how colorful. He could beat all the Sugar Ray Robinsons and all the Janiros he wants to. He ain't gonna get a shot at the title without us. I'm not askin' you to do another thing except get that message into that thick head!
Hey champ!
Tommy, thanks for coming over.
You just take it easy, now. You'll do all right. Feelin' Ok?
I'm Ok.
Just come by to wish you luck. Need anything?
No, we're all right. Thanks anyway, Tommy.
Ok, champ.
Let's go, Jake, wake up!
Huh? Whadda ya mean, get up?
We're from...
I know where you're from. You guys look the same every place.
They wanna talk to you.
About what?
I don't run the joint. They just told me to bring you in.
For what?
Orson, you wanna take five?
Five...? Yes. No. We're done today
It's just not low enough. This is the scene. We have to look up at these two man as pillars soaring to the sky. As towering virtues in combat
Spare me the aria, I know what you want
I need my shoes in total focus right here and also Joe back there!
I know what you want but it can't be done!
Take apart the fucking camera rig  we could get a few more inches down and then tilt up
Orson  we can't get the fucking camera any fucking lower so find another fucking shot!
How 'bout a real drink?
We done?
Yeah.
Oh, no
Yes!
He's Christ?
I'm Christ
You want to do the life of Jesus?
Yes! Vibrant and modern and stark like a Picasso sketch drawn to flashes of lightning I We shoot the whole thing in the gallant American West
It's an awful title, of course, but I can't think of anything better. Someone came up with A SEA OF UPTURNED FACES  which has a nice, grand ring to it  and I thought of JOHN CITIZEN, USA but that strikes me as a bit Warner Brothers. Or, God forbid, Capraesque. I suppose AMERICAN will do for now but
CITIZEN KANE
Pardon?
CITIZEN KANE There's your title.
A "Z" and a "K" in the title. That would draw the eye. For the poster. I like that THE PRISONER OF ZENDA had a "Z" and a "P" and that worked
Now look, Orson, let's not get ahead of ourselves. The budget projections on this
I know, I know! But what more can you expect of me?! I have pared this story down to the marrow to save money but to cut more would be to!
Listen, get off your horse with me. You know I've stuck by you since the beginning of time it seems like, while the stockholders in New York were ready to cut and run and everyone else in Hollywood was set to toss me in a rubber room. But your contract stipulates a max budget of 500 thousand. This one's gonna come in at 750 thousand. What do we do about that?
Now don't have a fit  but I want you to think again about doing WAR OF THE WORLDS
Jesus
Do WAR OF THE WORLDS as a feature and everyone's happy. You make some money and New York's happy and you have a track record and then we'll move on to KANE.
Please don't ask me to do this.
It's the safe bet, Orson. There's nothing wrong with that.
For the title
Ah, it's a grand title.
This is an abomination There's no music and
They've all seen a rough cut
The magazines are one thing  but Hedda! Why did we have to let her come?!
When Hedda says "I'm coming" you mix a lot of martinis and you pray.
And this is the evening edition. Notice anything?
The ad..
What do you want me to do, Orson? Radio City won't premiere the picture. Louella threatened them with some bullshit about
Then find another theater
You don't think I've tried? No one is willing to open the picture
Then we'll open it in Detroit or Dallas or Kalamazoo for God's sake! We'll show it in goddamn circus tents and!
Listen to me. The press ban is killing us and the distributors won't book it. And meantime I'm dealing with the stockholders in New York who are scared shitless  and I'm this far from getting fired myself  and you don't have a friend in the world but me right now. So you have got to trust that I'll do what I can to
"Do what you can"?! That's not good enough I
Well it' s all you've got !
You're with them, aren't you? You're going to bury my movie. They bought you!
For Christ's sake, shut up
Why don't you just have the guts to admit it
How dare you talk to me like that! Do you think I'm like all the rest of those pirates?! Like Mayer and Warner? Is that what you think?!
It's just that my movie is so
"Your movie"  I am so sick of that! It's your movie  but it's his life! Did you ever think about that?! Did you ever think about that old man and Marion having to watch as you tore them apart?!
Do you every think for one second that you might have some responsibility for what you're doing?! For cutting and slashing everything in your way so you can have your goddamn movie?!
That soulless monster gets no tears from me.
Who the fuck are you trying to kid? You are that soulless monster.
This isn' t some kinda fucking game! You know how many people RKO employs?! You know how many people depend on what we do for a living?!
I really think you're
You wanna commit suicide, fine! You got some death wish, fine! But you will not drag this company down with you!
It was a joke, George
You're not still mad at me, I hope
No, we're jake. But listen
Look, not a single scene shot in the studio! We've found natural locations for the whole story
Hold on a sec. I got news. We finally found somewhere to premiere KANE but
I told you! Where? Grauman's? El Capitan? Or did Radio City come crawling back?
The Palace in New York. But Orson there's something else.
I think you better sit down
I don't want to sit
It's my birthday this week. I'll be 26.
Happy birthday.
Oh God. . .
Relax, George. It's gonna go great. Trust me. Have I ever lied to you?
You know something, Orson, you haven't done anything but lie to me from the moment we met. But, ya know, I'd do it again in a second.
It was fun, wasn't it?
It was the best, kid
So, on to the Life Of Christ!
Without me. I'm afraid. I got the axe this morning.
"Rosebud? I'll tell you about Rosebud.
Again.
"Rosebud? I'll tell you about Rosebud.
Again.
"Rosebud? I'll tell you about Rosebud.
Again
"Rosebud? I'll tell you about Rosebud."
Again
"Rosebud? I'll tell you about Rosebud
Again
It came.
800,000 dollars fully covers the production budget and a little more. Hell, George, you even make a profit on the deal.
Very generous
And we gotta be clear here. I need the negative and every existing print.
To do what?
That's for me to decide.
You're going to destroy it
No, maybe put it on the shelf until the old man kicks it.
You're lying to me.
We already made the same offer to the stockholders.
You talked to New York?
Yes
You talked to Mr. Swanbeck?
Yes
Get out
You're bettin' on an inside straight this time. You'll never pull it off.
Get out.
May I help you?
I, um, need an estimate on some jewelry I might wish to sell. But dddiscretion is very important to me bbbecause I don't want anyone ttto, um, know that
Excuse me, I hope this isn't rude, but aren't you Marion Davies?
Yes.
Well, this is a great pleasure. Miss Davies! I just saw that ENCHANTMENT is playing at a the Tivoli, the revival house in Santa Monica. That was a fine picture!
Thank you
Not one of them today has what you had, Miss Davies. Not one of them.
Thank you  bbbut I'd really like ttto
Of course, of course. How can we be of service?
As I said I have some jjjj that I might wish ttto sell and I wanted an estimate
Surely My pleasure, Miss Davies..
He truly doesn't care if he ever works again.
Yeah, ain't it swell?
They came to me with an offer. 800,000 for the negative and all the prints.
And they went to the stockholders in New York.
Oh God.
I been talking to Swanbeck in New York and... Orson, I think they're gonna take it A long pause as Welles looks at Schaefer
Monstro! Ran into Walter Winchell outside He wants to play Herod in the picture. Hiya, George.
Herman.
So ain't this just the bee's knees? The high muckeymucks dolled up all Azteclike for the human sacrifice.
I don't know what you expected with Joseph fuckingConrad for Chrissake. I mean this is Hollywood, pal.
All right! Enough! I've heard this from Schaefer and RKO. I've heard it from everyone
But you keep coming up with the same elitist crap   HEART OF DARKNESS with a million dollar budget?!   no one wants to see that.
Nonsense
What are movies about, Orson?
Forget it
What are movies about?
Telling stories.
Nope.
Showing life
Who the hell wants to see life?! People are sick to death of life! They want makebelieve, pal. Fantasy. They want Tarzan and Jane, not Tristan and Isolde.
Magic
Butts on seats. That's what movies are about. You got one job in Hollywood  everyone has the same job, in fact  putting the butts on the seats. You gotta sell 'em popcorn and Pepsi cola. It's all about popcorn and Pepsicola.
Not for me.
Then you better get ready to be the youngest never was in Hollywood history.
That's better than being the oldest hasbeen in Hollywood history.
You're a laughriot, kid.
So, we've got to come up with our movie. Our biography.
Right
We find the man and then we dissect him
Like a bug.
But with compassion and insight
Christ, we gotta go! The old man doesn't cotton to lateness.
How about Howard Hughes? We could do Hughes
I'm not fucking with Hughes. That shitkicker would kill us dead, baby. Just like Jean Harlow
Howard Hughes killed Jean Harlow?
Sure. Dropped her out of his Lockheed over Utah
Sigmund Freud?
Kid, you just got your ass kicked on Joseph Conrad and now you're gonna go to Schaefer and tell him you wanna do the id and the superego? Stop being so goddamn smart.
Manolete?!
Who the hell's Manolete?
The great Spanish bullfighter
I don't wanna write about no spic.
No, it's perfect! When in doubt, put on a cape! False noses and faux beards and flowing capes have been the lifeblood of the actor's craft since the days of lrving and Booth. Imagine me in a glittering suit of lights on the dusky Andalusian plains
The man doesn't allow drinking or cigars? This is monstrous.
The old man has his own way of doing things
He's nothing but a hypocrite. He preaches morality every day in his sordid little papers for everyone else in the world but he lives openly with his mistress.
Look at those hands. Those are the hands of an artist. A modern Caravaggio.
No, baby, those are the hands of a killer
"In Xanadu did Kubla Khan a stately pleasure dome decree. . . "How big is it, all told? The estate?
The whole joint is half the size of Rhode Island.
Jesus
Yeah, it's the place God would have built, if he'd had the money.
Mank! You scoundrel! What took you so long?!
Orson, please ... it's too bright
Here you are, up with the birds for once, you vampire!
Okay, boy wonder, what?
Listen ... I've got it! It came to me like a thief in the night! Pure inspiration! Total magnificence!
Oh for Christ's sake
I know who we're going to get I The great American biography! A journey into the soul of the beast.
This better be good
Image a man that has shaped his time. A titanic figure of limitless influence. Think about empire. A man with an empire at his feet. A man, like a baron, living in a palace, a glorious palace on a hill, and controlling the permutations of everyone beneath him. Feudal.
Oh Christ...
Image the possibilities as this man controls the public perception of the nation through his
Oh Christ
Yes.
Please don't say this.
Mank
Don't whisper it. Don't even think it
How long have we spent casting our minds about the world when the answer to our prayers was right here under our noses  every single day in the newspapers and on the radio  waiting for us in that ridiculous castle! Waiting for!
Orson. Stop. Just stop
Now remember he's a public figure who sought out that publicity so legally he can't stop us from
Listen to you. You child! Men like him don't bother with things like legality. They don't have to. You know why, boyo? Power. Power like you couldn't even begin to imagine.
Howard Hughes, he would just kill us. Hearst he would kill us and fuck everything we ever loved.
We're doing Hearst.
You may think you know what you're talking about, kid, but believe me, you don't. You're talking about going into a battle you can never win on a battlefield so far above things like movies and Hollywood that Hearst won't even have to glance down when he crushes you. When he flicks you away with one finger. I'm talking about money and influence and evil beyond your capacity to imagine Hell.
So speaks the court jester.
Fuck you
I expected more from you.
Sorry to disappoint.
How does it feel, Mank? Going up to the palace and making all the lords and ladies laugh as you tell your little stories and beg for crumbs at the table? How does it feel being the ugly little monkey they keep to amuse themselves?!
I remember a man who wrote I He was a brilliant writer who dazzled me time and time again with his wit and insight
Don't do this
Where did he go? He hasn't had a screen credit in four years
Don't do this
Because he has been so furiously busy wasting himself. Amusing his keepers. Because he is a sycophant! Because he has been thrown out of every studio in Hollywood and no one will hire him because he's a drunk !
Let me out.
Listen to me
Fuck you
I am giving you the last chance you will ever have to be yourself again!
I don't have it anymore?!
When I was a kid I wanted to scorch the world too   I had all kinda dreams about making great pictures and telling great stories. But all that's finished for me
It doesn't have to be
And yeah, sure, Hearst's a great subject. Been keeping notes on him for years for my ... great American novel. But I can't do it anymore. No studio's gonna hire me and I  
I'll hire you  right now
I can't do it. okay?! I drink too much  I drink all the fucking time and I don't have it anymore. All that is over for me
NOT UNLESS I. TELL YOU IT IS
He'll destroy us.
Then let him. What have we got to lose, you and I?
So, who is he? We have to know him.
Everyone sees someone different. That's what we show.
How?
Like a jewel. Turn it in the light and a different facet is illuminated.
The key  the key  the clue  what does this man recall on his death bed? Okay, Mank, you're dying. What's the last image that comes to you? Right now.
This girl on a dock. White dress. Never said a word to her.
Why her?
She was . . . innocent
All men love. But men like Hearst  they don't bother with convention because
They don't have to.
He loves in his own way. On his conditions. Because those are the only conditions he has ever known.
Hearst looks down at the world at his feet Everything has always been beneath him.
And what does he see?
The people. When they pay him homage, he adores them. But when they have the ... audacity to question him. To doubt him. To embarrass him. Then he despises them.
And when he looks up? What does he dream about?
It's 350 pages long.
Yeah, but the margins are real wide.
It is 350 pages of ... ABSOLUTE INSPIRATION!
It's good, huh?
Good?! Good?! Words fail you at last! It's terrific! Now I'll have to do some shaping, of course, and some of the scenes aren't exactly . . . exactly . . .
What?
Short enough. But this is a grand start And I think we need to change the name.
The title?
No, AMERICAN is a blessed title directly sent from God's soul to your mind. We shall never change that! I mean the name of the publisher. Charles Foster Craig doesn't have the knivesout poetry I need. I was thinking about "Kane"  you like that?
Cain  like the Bible guy?
KANE. One strong syllable. Kane I
Craig is one syllable
But it's not a great syllable
I um I don't know if I should. I ain't been drinking since I started on this
To my invaluable comrade Drink up!
Jesus Christ 
YOU CAN'T DO THIS TOME  THIS WAS OUR STORY, REMEMBER?  YOU AND ME AND GODDAMN EVERYONE ELSE   REMEMBER THAT?!
And I'm looking at them  and they're all looking at me and I don't know who should pour the tea. '
Uh huh.
I just can't . . see it anymore
I want you back
Fuck you. You wanted me out. I'm out.
I'm sorry.
I don't care.
Did I ever tell you about my father?
I don't give a shit about
He was a drunk. And he was my father and I was ashamed of him.
Hey, kid. Gregg.
Mank, sit down. You missed the opening of the new picture but I'll go back
No, you gotta hear this
No, but I can imagine. What am I today? A "puny upstart" or a "spoiled dilettante"  no, she wouldn't know how to spell that
"And how is the country to feel when this industry continues to employ bedraggled foreigners and swarthy refugees instead of real Americans? Doesn't Hollywood know there's a Depression on? Don't real Americans deserve work?"
Well, at least she's off KANE today
No she's not. Don't you get it, ya lunk? She's using code language to the studio bosses. "Bedraggled foreigners and swarthy refugees"  who the hell do you think she's talking about?
Hedy Lamarr?
Jews. She's talking about Jews.
Who owns this town? Who runs every goddamn studio? The tribe, baby. These fuckers hear the word "Jew" and they start sweating. Like Ester Williams' pool they start sweating.
So they're Jews. . .
This is just the first shot. Maestro. Sooner or later she's gonna use the word. And all those boys know that there is only one thing this country hates more than the coloreds and that's the Jews.
Christ.
Me, I'm proud to be a Jew, I got no problem. You don't like it, fuck you. But with these guys it's like a dirty word. All they wanna be is good red whiteandblue Americans, and the way they see it you can't be a good American and a Jew. So Sam Goldfish becomes Sam Goldwyn and David Selznick becomes David 0. Selznick  like anyone's gonna think he's Irish for fuck's sake
What does this have to do with?
Believe you me, they're gonna do anything  and I mean absolutely anything  to stop that word from gettin' out.
What?! Are they going to kill me? Is that what they're going to do?!
If he had known about KANE before you made it, you'd be dead already.
It's too late. The movie's made
They won't let it out. Not Hearst. Not the other studio heads
You wrote the damn thing, Mank Aren't you going to fight for it?!
I told you this was going to happen! I told you he was going to come after us! So we took the chance anyway and we lost. That's how it goes, okay? I got my check, kid, and so did you  and that's what it's all about  so fuck it and move on.
Is that from one of the Gospels?
Kinda.
YOU STUPID, LITTLE MAN! HOW COULD YOU HAVE LET THIS HAPPEN?! I GAVE YOU MY SOUL AND NOW YOU'RE GOING TO SELL IT!?
This ain't George's doing!
You gonna watch?
Hell, I know how it ends. Hey, Rosebud's the sled!
Mank!
Face it, Orson, they're gonna hate it. I told you, not enough closeups and too many scenes with a bunch of New York actors.
Shit
George...
What have I done?
Aw, cheer up, George'll probably be running Fox by the morning. Let's get a drink.
You know, all this nightmare we went through with Hearst. The whole thing... And in the end, probably no one will ever remember the picture anyway.
Yeah, you're probably right.
Schaefer, I gotta see this Welles picture
Louella, hello, I was just fixing a drink, would you like?
You drink at 10 am, do you?
No  no  I mean
I wanna see the picture today
That might be a tad difficult because Orson is scoring the picture now and he's very particular about the music
Cut the malarkey, buddy. The boss himself wants me to see the picture today.
He personally asked you to?
That's right
Hearst?
Uhhuh
That's right, fella, no Hearst paper will run an RKO ad until you agree that CITIZEN KANE will never see the light of day.
Louella, please, be reasonable, I understand you have problems with Orson's picture but maybe we can work something out
Nix, sweetie. You shelve it
Oh for God's sake, Louella
And Mr. Hearst has authorized me to tell you that you're looking at the most beautiful lawsuit in history if you release this picture. He'll bleed your little studio dry and you can all go on back to New York and do Shakespeare with the Boy Wonder.
Can I talk to Hearst?
You are talking to him.
Tome it's a question of truth and illusion. Don't you get tired of the errant falsity in motion pictures?
Huh?
What we are going to do is shoot life  in all it's joyous complexity.
Now, Orson, you know I'm just dyin' to see your picture and I know it's gonna be boffo, but you're writing about a publisher, right?
We're using
You're not doin' Hearst, are you?
Good God no! The character is a delicious amalgamation of various press barons
A delicious amalgamation, is it?
That's right. A symphony of those: vaunted and valued tellersoftruth. Those heroic minutemen standing sentry on our liberties
Orson, hold on. Look into my eyes. Tell me you are not doing Hearst.
I am not doing Hearst.
"Well, if you got drunk to talk to me about Miss Alexander, don't bother. I'm not interested. I've set back the sacred cause of reform, is that it? All right, if that's the way they want it, the people have made their choice. It's obvious the people prefer Jim Gettys to me."
"You talk about the people as if you owned them. As though they belonged to you. As long as I can remember, you've talked about" Orson, I am so goddamn tired
Keep filming.
I can't remember the lines!
Then make them up! You're drunk and you're angry.
This is the chance you've been waiting for, boy. Tell that son of a bitch just what you think of him!
We're not all hopped up on benzedrine, Orson I Some of us humans need sleep!
You're not going to get another chance, boy! Look right at the monster and you tell him
"You don't care about anything except you. You just want to persuade people that you
love them so much that they ought to love you back. Only you want love on your own terms. "
"A toast then, Jedediah, to love on my own terms. Those are the only terms anybody ever knows, his own."
It's all you. It has the political campaigns and the mining fortune and the war with Pulitzer and the castle. And ... Marion.
How so?
The jigsaw puzzles and the, urn, career  the man spending a fortune to make her a star  only it's opera and not movies. And...
Yes?
The drinking.
Thank you for your time
Thank you, sir. She begins to leave
Miss Parsons, I have one additional question for you.
Sir?
Why did we not know about this sooner?
Sir?
I pay you a good deal of money to be my eyes and ears in Hollywood, do I not? If you cannot provide this simple service you are of no use to me.
Sir, I
Please be quiet.
He lied to me
He looked into my face and told me it wasn't about you.
And how do you feel when you are lied to?
I want blood
Good. Retain that feeling. Let it nourish you from this day forth. It shall nourish us both
Goddamn it. I gotta have some kinda life!
There's no call for that language
There certainly is I There certainly is! Aw, to hell with you!
This is supposed ta be Siam or some such. Some kinda lousy BBBalinese temple. This look like a temple to you? I can't see it myself
Darling, I talked to Millicent.
There. That's right.
She's a Catholic. She says it would put her soul in peril. Divorce is a very serious sin, apparently.
Nuts. She only cares about the money. She thinks I'll make you cut her out of the wwww... will.
The Journal was pretty harsh to Roosevelt today.
You oughta lay off him  he is the pppresident, after all.
He is a Bolshevik. He will have us at war by the end of the year. I think I'm going to run that wheelchair picture.
Don't
How bad is it?
Nothing for you to worry about, darling
Pops
The S.E.C. has turned down my request for relief on the debts.
How much?
It's not really
How much?
We're 125 million dollars in debt?
Yes.
How does one get 125 million dollars in debt?
One . . . buys things.
Well  he got us, didn't he? She stands and goes quickly to pour a drink. A forced laugh
Nailed us, hub? The crazy old man and his whore.
Marion
Bought and pppaid for. Just like one of his goddamn statues. Well at least in the movie he married her!
This picture
I am not that woman.
Then you explain it to me?!
There's nothing to explain
A million dollars a year on art and stststatues and there's nothing to explain?!
I will not defend my life to you
I'm not asking you to defend anything. But we're in a pickle and we gotta talk about it.
We are in no "pickle"  as you would euphemistically have it.
You gotta wake up now. Pops.
There is nothing to discuss
You don't have any money left, okay?! That's the truth. I don't wanna say it, nobody else will say it, but it's the truth. You spent it all. You can't buy the Tribune in Chicago  you can't buy ^ gg goddamn thing. Now you better face up to it
You are being typically theatrical, Marion. I need the Tribune to
You don't need it! That's the problem you always think you need everything
That  did you need that? How much did that cost?
It's 12th Century. From Deauville  in France.
I know where Deauville is for CCChrist's sake.
You needn't use that language with me
Did you need it? Did you need any of it?
I wanted it
There's a different between want and
Not for me.
But why? Just so you can show it all off  just so everyone can see what a bbbig man you are?!
That's right. You've captured me exactly. Goodnight.
You will not walk out on me
You are repellant when you drink.
Tough shit. We need to tttalk about this
You are slovenly and unattractive and I won't ttttolerate it.
Fuck you, Mr. Kane.
I will not have this in my home.
I just want to understand
No, you don't. You want to condemn me, like everyone else. You want to point to the pathetic, old man grown lunatic with his spending  trapped in his ridiculous
castle  still fighting old battles he will never win with Pulitzer and Roosevelt and Hollywood
I don't want you to
There is nothing to understand but this: I am a man who could have been great, but was not.
Louis
Randolph!
Hope you don't mind my popping in
Quite. And this is why I came to visit. Have you heard about this CITIZEN KANE picture?
Over at RKO?
Mm. Not a very good picture I am told.
Uhhub.
Apparently it details the exploits of a publisher like myself. Entirely too much like myself. Do you follow so far?
Yeah
And maybe we could get Mr. Warner and Mr. Goldwyn and Mr. Cohn and Mr. Selznick to play as well.
You know that can't happen.
Oh, why is that?
Why is that, Louis?
Bel Air is restricted.
See what you can do about this CITIZEN KANE picture, won't you?
Yeah
Who are you, sir?
My name is Orson Welles
The actor
And director.
I see. And you are in California for what reason?
To make pictures.
Well, I wish you luck. It is a treacherous business.
So I've been told.
In Hollywood the fiercest bulls are the most brutally killed.
I'll remember that.
I wonder. Do you have any idea what you have done?
Do you?
Intimately. For every sin you have placed on my head I could give you a hundred others. I have been swimming in blood my entire life. But I retain a belief, perhaps you will think it old fashioned, undoubtedly you will, but I believe that private lives should not be public property.
Elegant words, sir, when you have made your name and your fortune on slander and innuendo and gossip. In your papers you taught the world how to look under every rock. I learned at the knee of the master.
So where does that leave us, Mr. Welles? What kind of sad future are we two making? A future where men will do anything to sell their newspapers and their movies? A future where no price is too high for fame and power? When we will all scratch each other to pieces just to be heard?
And we would hear them scuttling around at night with their little red eyes and little yellow tt teeth and I'm just imagining plague lice jumpin' all over the damn place So we set tttraps everywhere. And every morning we would find the tttraps sprung but no mice!
Houdini mice.
God, these parties are the worst
You need to get outta here, Rapunzel
That's why he has the parties, he says it's like bringing the world to me.
Why don't you come down to LA? Stay with us for a while.
With about twenty of his spies on my tail. No thanks.
It's not so bad here. After all, what girl doesn't want to live in a castle?
Mr. Welles certainly is a caution
Yeah, Orson's a real piece of work. But deep down, he's a good kid. Real deep down.
And attractive in a hammy sort of way.
Mm.
Listen, you come down and stay with us for a few days. Just tell the old man that
I can't
Sure you can, just
He needs me here.
When I met him I was just 20. And he was 55. I saw the gold ring and just grabbed on. And he was going to make me a star.
And he did.
I did my best but, well, you know me
Sure
Thing that bothers me now, though, looking back is that I really think I could have been something ... special.
Thinking like that is only gonna drive you nuts You were a great star and you had a good run. That oughta be enough.
Yeah. But all of a sudden it's not
You know this CITIZEN KANE picture? About Pops and everything?
Uhhuh
The character that's supposed to be me, Susan Alexander
Marion, everyone knows you're not like that
But I am That's the killer, honey.
Ever met Walter Winchell?
No, when I was but a tender lad
Last week would this be?
So you ever gonna do a picture?
Not you too
It's gonna be fine, Orson. You're gonna do great.
I wonder sometimes.
You're just scared.
Am I?
Of being found out. Of not being a genius
Oh, but haven't you heard? I'm the Boy Wonder. I've been a genius since the moment I was born.
We've known each other too long, Orson. Sling the bullshit elsewhere.
Carole, you wound me! As if I could hope to pacify you with evasions of
Don't insult me with your cute press quotes Save it for Louella.
That poor woman.
She knew what she was signing on for After all, she took the money.
Leave at once 
But it's just begun 
Do as I say.
Doesn't that please you?
Very much.
I'd prefer to have our brandy in the salon. There we can sit... sideby side... before the fire.
I'd rather read, thankyou.
You prefer a book to your husband's company?
Hm? Tell me. What other treats?
....shame on you, truly...
For fuck's sake, woman! BONBONS? I'm to sit here, gorging myself on useless trifles, sucking down your little sweetmeats, when what I truly need  what I truly require  are a few quill pens? Perhaps a pot of ink?
Forgive me, I beg you 
How was I to know, my darling?
How was I to tell you? By writing a letter? WITH WHAT, MY ASININE BRIDE?
I beg you, Donatien... as your wife... your only ally... you must stop making such a monstrous spectacle of yourself.
You've come to lecture me?
To flaunt your deviance in public? Upon a stage?
They've put you up to this, haven't they?
You ought to court the Doctor's favor, not his contempt.
Everywhere I go, they point and whisper! At the opera, they hiss at me when I take my box. When I went to church... the priest refused to even hear my confession; he said I was already damned! Why must I suffer for your sins?
It's the way of all martyrs, isn't it?
Give me back my anonymity, that's all I ask! Let me be invisible again!
Tell me; have you done anything to secure my release? NO! Have you petitioned the court? NEVER! Sought audience with the Emperor 
He refuses to be seen in my company! He blanches at the mention of your name 
It's a convenience, isn't it, having your husband locked away! You no longer have to hold your tongue, or hoist your skirts! Or crack your mouth, so I can put it to its one pleasurable use! YOU'RE NOT MY WIFE, NO! YOU'RE ONE AMONG MY MANY JAILERS, AREN'T YOU?
It is customary to write first, and request an appointment 
Desperation has driven me past etiquette, all the way to frenzy.
My schedule is not subject to the whims of lunatics.
I beg to differ, Doctor. You work in a madhouse. Your every waking moment is governed by the insane.
I pray you: be succinct.
You're new to Charenton, yes? Perhaps you're not yet familiar with my husband, and his unusual case.
With all due respect, Madame, all France is familiar with your husband. Grant us a moment alone, won't you, Monsieur Prouix?
I assume you've come to plead for clemency on your husband's behalf.
Oh you do, do you? It is my dearest hope, Doctor, that he remain entombed forever, and that when at last he perishes in the dank bowels of your institution, he be left as carrion for the rodents and the worms.
You're aware, are you not, that it costs a great deal to house your husband at Charenton...
I pay his stipend every month, far more dutifully than I should.
That barely covers the cost of his room. There's nary a penny left over for appropriate treatments. Opiates to quell his temper. Restraints to chasten him when he misbehaves.
Perhaps if you were to buttress your entreaties with the means to oblige them...
I am not a wealthy woman.
But you've a pension, haven't you, from the sale of his books?
It's tainted money, Doctor.
What a beautiful thought, Marquise.
What thought is that?
That illgotten funds, borne of his degeneracy, might now effect his salvation.
If you're truly determined to step out of the shadow of your husband's celebrity 
Oh, but I am!
 words alone are insufficient.
It's beyond perversity. That honor should carry a price tag...
Don't toy with me, Doctor.
Now is the time to secure your epitaph. The benevolent Marquise, Charenton's most revered philanthropist... or Satan's Bride.
I am eternally in your debt.
And I in yours.
Doctor... Can I impart to you his cruelest trick?
Of course.
Once... long ago... in the folly of youth... he made me love him.
Good God, Marquise 
I'm on the brink of bankruptcy; my husband's resources are all but exhausted. And to what end, I ask you?
This is neither the time nor the place 
If only you'd remained true to our contract! Opiates, for his nerves! Restraints! The man warrants a bed of nails 
I can say, with the utmost sincerity, that every franc you've given me has been put to sterling use.
You've no right to assault me in this fashion; I'll call for my footman. I'll have you removed 
Am I a cursed woman, Doctor? Must I be betrayed by every man I meet 
Public scorn carries a terrible sting. Trust me. I'm a woman who knows.
It's libelous; you wouldn't dare.
And why not? My fortune, siphoned away. My reputation, past repair. I've nothing left to lose. Silence my husband, or you'll come to know an infamy to rival his own.
"...your wife."
Tell him I'm no fool. A prison's still a prison, even with Chinese silk and chandeliers.
"By the time you read this, we'll be long gone; bound for England or points beyond..."
Tell him  if he uncovers our whereabouts  you'll slit your wrists with a razor, and I'll plunge a hat pin through my heart.
You'd do that, rather than forsake our love?
No. But tell him I would.
I'm hungry for a proper visit.
Don't start 
Go ahead; you've a key. Slip it through my tiny hole...
Did I frighten you?
You? Frighten me? That's a good one! I'm twice as fast as you are. Who'd have thought such a spent body can still boast such a fertile mind?
It's the only frontier I have left, plumcake.
I suppose you want to know about that silly book of yours.
The peril of composing such incendiary prose...
I put myself at life and limb. Surely that's worth a few louis.
If only these coins purchased your other talents, too.
There's something else I want from you.
You've already stolen my heart, as well as another more prominent organ, south of the Equator...
Your publisher says I'm not to leave without a new manuscript.
I've just the story... inspired by these very surroundings....
The unhappy tale of a virginal laundry lass, the darling of the lower wards, where they entomb the criminally insane.
Is it awfully violent?
Most assuredly.
Is it terribly erotic?
Fiendishly so.
A kiss for each page.
Must I administer them directly, or might I blow them?
The price, my coquette, is every bit as firm as I am...
Oh, you. You talk same as you write.
It's a long story, this one.
The climax comes at a higher cost; you must sit on my lap.
You demand a lot from your readers, you do.
The story's thrilling conclusion comes at a premium.
What's that then?
What have they done to you now?
Tortures so arcane, so medieval, even I haven't the words to describe them. If you've an ounce of pity in your heart, you'll throw caution aside, and unlock my door...
My newest book begins at my right cuff, continues across my back, and completes itself at the base of my left shoe...
I don't believe it!
They've taken your clothes?
They decreed me a savage, and now they have made me one.
Surely you've seen a man naked.
It's only been described to me. In your books.
I must say, in your novels you stoke the most unrealistic expectations.
You're far crueler than I, my sweet.
The Abbe's sending me away. He fears for me here, what with the likes of you 
Don't be fooled, Madeleine! He fears for himself. He's like a man starving, and you  ha!  you're like a pork chop dolloped with heavy cream 
He's a man of God; he's true to his vows.
First and foremost, he's a MAN. You remind him of that fact, and he resents you for it.
It needn't be; not if you've another story.
How do you propose I write it? With dust, upon the air?
You could whisper it through the walls of your cell.
Yes; that's it! A final volley from us both!
Go on, child.
Tomorrow night, whisper a new tale to your neighbor, Cleante. He'll whisper it to his neighbor Dauphin, who'll whisper it to his neighbor Franval 
 who'll whisper it to Bouchon 
 whose cell lies next to the linen cabinet! There, armed with a quill of my own, I'll commit it to paper!
Yes! You shall. Of course you shall 
A tale more horrible than all the rest combined!
Something to make the angels weep, and the Saints to gasp for air...
...yes, I've got that bit...
"What shall I ready?" asked Fanchon. "My mouth, my ass or my succulent oyster?"
If you won't read it to your own Mama, then perhaps you ought not to be reading it at all.
It's not your cup of tea, Mama.
Come now, darling, give it a read.
"A habitu of cemeteries, his proudest conquest was a maid six decades his senior, deceased a dozen years."
Oh, it's terrible! It's too, too terrible! Well. Go on.
"The vigor with which he made love caused her bones to dislodge. Still, he granted her the highest compliment he accorded any woman..."
Yes?
"Well worth the dig!"
I'm only a laundress; not a detective.
Now's not the time to be cheeky, Maddy.
You're more than a priest; you're an angel! Ain't he, Maddy?
It's because of the Marquis, isn't it?
At last she arrives, my hardwon bride! Hurry, my child, and scurry inside. There you'll find such treasures await you; Marzipan and meringue to sate you!
Such gallantry in men is  sadly  a rarity; How lucky I am to receive his charity!
Quickly, my suckling, out of your clothes! My scepter awaits; how solid it grows!
Stop, I beg you! Have pity, I say! You're not my lover; you're a monstrous rou!
My darling, Eugenie, dainty morsel! Get on your back! Let's try it dorsal!
Was ever a man more risqu? He wants to take me every way!
I'll plunder every lovely pore until you're week and cry "no more!"
I tremble with fear! You're bound to pound the quivering lips of my Venus mound!
And then  to prove your truly mine  I'll plunder you, darling, from behind!
What of my lips, will you soil them too? When you've broken every other taboo?
I'll fill every slippery hollow; if you're obliging, then you'll swallow!
Here it is; the last chapter.
Monsieur Masse says he'd like another manuscript, quick as you please. He's got himself three presses, and he can't print 'em fast enough.
I'll pass the word on, then.
I'll pay you another visit, with a share of the profits, once its sold.
I'll be waiting.
Maybe someday you'll tell me your name.
You asked my name once; it's Madeleine.
Sweet, then? Like the pastry?
But here at the Hotel Dieu we favor an... aggressive... course of treatment.
Quite.
I don't seek popularity or renown, Monsieur Delben. Mine is a higher mission.
Charenton? The administrator there is quite wellloved, is he not?
I'm afraid so; he's an idealist. You'll have to be politic.
Do you know how I define "idealism," Monsieur Delben?
His wife was trying to escape; they caught her on the stair, and set upon her with bayonets. "There but for the grace of God"... eh, Doctor?
I don't shed tears over the past, Monsieur Delben; I look to the future.
"As he loosened his manhood from beneath his robes, The Bishop muttered a Latin prayer. And then  with a mighty thrust  drove it into her very entrails "
Enough!
As for the author... shoot him.
A word of caution, Sire: we all remember what happened to Robespierre, Danton and Marat. Put the Marquis to death, and history might even regard you as a despot.
But I am history.
Of course, Your Highness. Nevertheless... cure the Marquis de Sade... succeed, where countless physicians and priests have failed...
Yes?
No one can fault Napoleon for merely bringing a man to his senses.
Dr. RoyerCollard? May I be the first to welcome you to Charenton 
This may feel a tad awkward, my friend, but it needn't be. I've merely come to oversee your work here; understood?
Of course.
It's a formality; truly.
You're a man of Science; I'm a man of God. Charenton stands to profit from us both, I'm certain.
I'll need an office on the grounds; someplace to store my things.
If you don't mind my asking... why has the Emperor taken such sudden interest in my... our... affairs?
It seems a particular patient of yours has captured his fancy.
I understand he practices the very crimes he preaches in his fiction.
A few indiscretions in his youth.
Indiscretions, Abbe? Please. I've read his case history. At sixteen, he violated a serving girl with a crucifix. After six months in the dungeon at Vincennes, he mutilated a prostitute, cutting her flesh with a razor, then cauterizing the wounds with wax 
I hope you'll judge him by his progress here, and not his past reputation.
He's made a great success of our Little Theater; there's seldom an empty seat. Not to mention its therapeutic value.
Playing dressup with cretins? That sounds like a symptom of madness; not its cure.
Why is he in your care, and not a proper prison?
His wife's influence.
His wife's?
Better to have an insane spouse than a criminal one.
And he's never once attempted escape?
A man of his notoriety? He wouldn't last a day on the streets without capture.
Besides, every wholesome thing he might desire, he has at Charenton. A library, filled with the world's great books, music lessons, watercolor exercises 
What is the impact of all these amenities upon his psyche?
He no longer roars or spits. He no longer taunts the guards or molests his fellow wards 
And his writing?
Oh. That.
Well...?
It's essential to his recovery; a purgative for the toxins in his mind.
Do you favor its publication?
For sale? To the general public? Certainly not; it's unprintable.
You have to believe me, I had no idea 
All France is aghast at this book, yet you've not heard of it?
I've taken vows to live my life within these walls; not outside them.
Abbe, I admire you; I do. You've a conviction... an idealism... peculiar to the very young. And so I'll be candid. The Ministry has sent me here with the most explicit... the most severe instructions.
Yes?
Unless we set Charenton on a straight and narrow course, she'll be shut down forever by order of the Emperor.
Shut down?
In their eyes, the Marquis is the surest barometer of your progress here.
But he's one among some two hundred wards 
Have you tried bleeding him with leeches? The calming chair? Maybe you should flog him at the stake?
Why? So he'll learn to fear punishment, rather than pursue virtue for its own reward?
You're a sentimental man.
A practical man, sir. Given the Marquis' unusual tastes, a sound thrashing on bare flesh may not qualify as a deterrent.
You find this amusing, do you?
On the contrary. Let me take up this matter with the Marquis myself 
And place my reputation at stake?
Charenton is my life's work. To have her wrested from beneath me now 
Well?
I spoke to him with reason and compassion; the tools which serve us best here.
And ?
He's sworn to obedience.
He's more than a patient, Doctor; the Marquis is my friend 
You keep strange company, Abbe. But if you truly have matters in hand here 
I have.
 then I've friends of my own to visit.
Madame Bougival; Mademoiselle Clairwil  and of course  the Marquis' wife 
Oh indeed?
It was fiction, of course.
Of course.
It was not inspired by circumstance.
No. It most certainly was not.
You ought to be ashamed, Abbe. Exploiting those drooling, pathetic cretins for financial gain 
That's not our intent 
 a veritable freak show for tourists and curiosity seekers. Charenton is a sanatorium; she is not a circus. The theater is henceforth closed. As for your avowed friend  playwright emeritus of the madhouse 
I'll do everything in my power 
Do more. Otherwise, I'll be forced to report to the Ministry that the inmates are indeed running the asylum.
You'll get more from her with kindness than you will with force.
What could cause a tincture like this?
He'll do no such thing.
It's a weak man who tests his mettle on the backs of children 
This child let loose the beast from its cage 
Madeleine's not wicked. It's the Marquis who's corrupted her. That's not her fault; it's mine.
If only blood will appease you, then shed mine.
You'd suffer in her stead?
As you say, Doctor.
He was so impressed with the Marquis' tale that he chose to reenact it, yes?
Perhaps you'll be so kind as to remind me of her name...
I beg you, Doctor, don't make me say it.
HER NAME, ABBE.
My, my. You have exceeded my expectations.
And my own.
How is the patient faring?
Poorly.
And you? It must've been an ordeal.
I'm not the first man God has asked to shed blood in His name. I will not be the last.
Will you sleep soundly tonight?
No, sir. Plainly put, I never expect to sleep again.
I've stared into the face of evil... ...and I've lived to tell the tale. Now... for your own sake... let me write it down.
Gibberish, my friend. He rants and he raves 
Care for a splash of wine, Abbe?
It's not even noon 
Conversation, like certain portions of the anatomy, always runs more smoothly when it's lubricated.
I should've told you it was the blood of Christ; you'd believe that, wouldn't you?
We treat you well enough here, don't we Marquis? Your very own featherbed, in lieu of a straw mat. Your antique writing desk, all the way from LaCoste. Enough quills to feather an ostrich 
It's true, dearheart, you've spoiled me pink.
In exchange, we ask only that you follow the rules. Now you know as well as I do... you're not to entertain visitors in your quarters.
I'm entertaining you now, aren't I?
I'm not a beautiful young prospect, ripe for corruption.
Don't be so sure.
Take your pen in hand, Marquis. Purge these wicked thoughts of yours on paper; maybe they'll govern you less in life.
I'll fill page after page, I promise.
Yes! It is! The paper's cheap, the type's too small 
What did you do? Bribe one of the guards?
But you implored me to write! For curative purposes, to stave off my madness 
But you've no right to publish! Behind my back, without my sanction!
Have you truly read the book in question? Or did you run  straightaway  to the dogeared pages?
Enough to discern its tenor.
And ?
It's not even a proper novel! It's nothing but an encyclopedia of perversions! Frankly, it even fails as an exercise in craft. The characters are wooden; the dialogue is inane. Not to mention the endless repetition of words like "nipple" and "pikestaff" 
There I was taxed; it's true.
And such puny scope! Nothing but the very worst in man's nature!
I write of the great, eternal truths that bind together all mankind! The whole world over, we eat, we shit, we fuck, we kill and we die.
But we also fall in love; we build cities, we compose symphonies, and we endure. Why not put that in your books as well?
It's a fiction, not a moral treatise.
But isn't that the duty of art? To elevate us above the beast?
I thought that was your duty, Abbe, not mine.
One more trick like this, and I'll be forced to revoke all your liberties!
It's that Doctor fellow, isn't it? He's come to usurp your place here, hasn't he?
More than your writing's at stake. The Ministry has threatened us with closure.
They can't be serious.
Our future lies in the stroke of your pen.
Mightier than the sword indeed.
Put yourself in my place. I've your fellow patients to consider. If Charenton falls, they've no place to go. No manner in which to clothe or feed themselves 
Fuck 'em! They're halfwits and pinheads. Let 'em die on the streets, as Nature intended.
You among them?
You've a touch of the poet, too; perhaps you should take up the quill.
Do I have your word?
If you only mean to dupe me again 
Honestly! You cut me to the core! What's the point of all your valiant attempts at rehabilitation if  when I finally succumb  when at long last, I pledge myself to righteous conduct  you regard me with nothing but suspicion? Have you no faith in your own medicine?
You mean to take us all down with you?
Don't be absurd; it's only a play.
He can't do that to me.
How can one man possibly be so selfish?
We held a mirror up to the Doctor, and  apparently  he didn't like what he saw.
What the devil 
If you won't be true to your word, then you've left me no choice.
Perhaps  in time  you'll earn them back through good behavior 
You can't ! You mustn't ! I've all the demons of hell in my head; my only salvation is to vent them on paper 
Try reading, for a change. The writer who produces more than he reads? The sure mark of an amateur.
Start with the Bible; it's cheerier, and more artfully written.
That monstrous God of yours? He strung up his very own son like a side of veal; I shudder to think what He'd do to me.
You know what sacrilege is, don't you? The last refuge of the failed provocateur.
I'll die of loneliness! I've no company but the characters I create 
Whores and pederasts? You're better off without them.
I have a proposition.
You always do.
Madeleine. She's besotted with me; she'd do anything I ask. She could pay you a midnight visit 
I don't know who you insult more; her or me.
"Part the gates of heaven," as it were 
That's enough.
You're tense, darling. You could use a long, slow screw.
Good day, Marquis.
THEN BUGGER ME!
My bed, gone! Am I to freeze to death?
His rug.
And my chaise  am I being denied the privilege of sitting  of plopping down my ass 
That's a Turkish weave, you numbskull; it costs more than you'll earn in your lifetime 
Valcour. His chair.
Virgin birth  ha! An entire religion, built on an oxymoron!
Orvolle. His wine. From now on, nothing but water at every meal 
 water! 
 and your meat shall be deboned.
WHY THIS SUDDEN TORTURE?
Because your writing continues, unchecked.
I DIDN'T CREATE THIS WORLD OF OURS! I ONLY RECORD IT!
Its horrors, perhaps! Its darkest nightmares! And to what end? Nothing but your own morbid gratification 
Morbid gratification? NO! I write what I've seen; the endless procession to the chopping block. We're all lined up at the guillotine, waiting for the crunch of the blade. Rivers of blood are flowing beneath our feet, Abbe.
If it were up to the Doctor, you'd be flayed alive.
A man after my own heart...
What in God's name am I to do with you? The more I forbid, the more you're provoked!
I could be convinced to abandon my writing, quite voluntarily.
What on earth would that require?
A night spent with the partner of my choice.
You expect me to pimp Madeleine?
I wasn't talking about Madeleine.
OFF WITH YOUR CLOTHES!
Coulmier, you animal!
I DO NOT MEAN TO FLIRT, MARQUIS!
Oh, but you must, my pumpkin! Sex without flirtation is merely rape!
NOW STRIP.
It's a potent aphrodisiac, isn't it? Power over another man.
Your wig. Remove your wig.
Oh, I'm to be blamed now, am I?
Your words drove Bouchon to 
For fuck's sake, Abbe! What am I to do? Police my readers as you police me? Suppose one of your precious wards had attempted to walk on water and drowned? Would you condemn the Bible? I think not!
An innocent child is dead.
So many authors are denied the gratification of a concrete response to their work. I am blessed, am I not?
It's no secret that you loved her.
Oh, that's rich  coming from her lapdog 
I saw the longing in your eye 
 that was lust 
 the passion in your heart 
Don't confuse one organ with another 
I know, because I felt it myself 
I WANTED TO FUCK HER, THAT'S ALL!
AND DID YOU?
IT'S NOT YOUR PROVINCE TO ASK.
You're no stranger to rape, Marquis; and yet with her, you cooed. You courted. You begged.
Go to hell!
Why was it you never took her by force?
Who's to say I did not?
Was it impotence?
NEVER!
Then it must've been love 
I FUCKED HER COUNTLESS TIMES! IN EVERY ORIFICE! AND ALL THE WHILE, SHE PLEAD FOR MORE 
We inspected the body, Marquis. She died a virgin.
I dare you. Stab my flesh. Which one of us will bleed?
Tomorrow, we'll cut out your tongue.
Abbe de Coulmier!
I'm here.
Surely you'll grant me a final word.
Of course.
They've got no right, sending someone to sit on your shoulder. I work for you; I won't take orders from a stranger.
You needn't worry, Valcour. It's administrative, nothing more.
Free his mouth.
Mustn't do that, sir.
I must grant him his last rites.
I don't take my orders from you; not anymore.
You'd deny a dying man his salvation?
Then how can we know who is truly good, and who is evil?
We can't. All we can do is guard against our own corruption.
Madeleine 
Yes, Abbe?
The next time you feel the urge to visit the Marquis, I hope you'll come to confession instead.
Has he hurt you?
His stinking breath caused my eyes to run, that's all.
I was wrong to free him, but so are you  for taking all his treasures  his quills and his ink 
Not now, or we're both done for.
Had I known your taste in novels, I never would've taught you to read.
Don't say that; reading's my salvation.
But why must you indulge in his pornography?
It's a hard day's wages, slaving away for madmen. What I've seen in life, it takes a lot to hold my interest.
Ow!
But why heap such ghastly fantasies atop an already ghastly existence?
I put myself in his stories. I play the parts. Each strumpet, each murderess.
Why not act the role of heroines instead? Queen Esther from the Bible, or St. Joan?
If I wasn't such a bad woman on the page, Abbe, I'll hazard I couldn't be such a good woman in life.
In part, yes.
He's not the man who's cast a shadow here.
The Doctor's a respected man, a friend of the court 
I haven't been to see the Marquis for ages. And I won't  ever again  I swear it. I won't speak to him, I won't even utter his name 
Is that a promise you can truly keep?
Charenton has changed; it's not safe for you here.
I've you to look after me, haven't I?
Don't turn us out, Abbe.
"Turn you out?"
It's a sin against God for me to refuse your kindness. But my heart's held fast here...
By whom? The Marquis?
Mother's not half so blind as you.
Madeleine, I... there are certain things... feelings... we must not voice.
Why not?
They incite us to act. In ways we should not... cannot... a lesson the Marquis would do well to learn.
Go back to your room. Quickly.
What? What've I done?
Don't come back, not tonight, not again 
You'll hate me now, won't you?
If you'd grant me a final favor, I'd like the chance to explain myself 
Don't come any closer, Abbe. God's watching.
Marquis? Is that you?
For fuck's sake, who else would it be? The witching hour's arrived; you've alerted the others, yes?
I'm no longer a man! I awoke to discover I'd turned into a sparrow!
Yes, well, I awoke to discover I'd turned into a cat. If you don't do as I say, I'll sink my little fangs into your drumsticks, and suck the marrow straight out of your bones.
At your service, Count.
Now give the signal.
"One day, Fanchon's first client was a surgeon. He ran his fingers across her naked skin, pulling apart folds of flesh, inspecting each and every follicle..."
"One day, Fanchon was visited by a surgeon. He ran his fingers across her naked skin, pulling apart folds of flesh, inspecting follicles..."
"With that, Fanchon expelled a scream so extravagantly pitched, that the surgeon was obliged to tear out her tongue "
"With that, Fanchon expelled a scream so extravagantly pitched, that the surgeon was obliged to tear out her tongue "
"To seal the wound, he took a poker from the fire "
"...a poker... he took a poker from the fire..."
"And so the Professor lifted Colombe's skirt high, above her waist. 'Let me be your Tutor,' said he, 'in the ways of love.' With that, he slid her pantalettes down, down, down over her knees, and there  nestled between her legs  as pink as a tulip, as slick as an eel "
We oughtn't be reading his nasty stories 
No one's forcing you to listen.
You've been to his quarters, haven't you?
Once or twice.
I hear he's got a whetstone and chisel, and he uses them to sharpen his teeth.
He's a writer, not a madman.
Then what's he doing here?
If you're going to slander him, then you don't deserve to hear his stories 
I think she's sweet on him, that's what I think.
Welcome to Charenton, Abbe du Maupas.
I'm pleased to have the new post, sir.
I'm afraid that our endowment has shrivelled to a mere pittance; we're the laughing stock of all France. But  on a happier note 
 and the listless ones do the binding.
It's remarkable, Doctor. The patients are so subdued; so docile.
They've the satisfaction only a hard day's labor can provide.
I don't believe it. The Marquis de Sade? You're actually publishing his novels?
Ever since his unfortunate death, there's been a surge of interest in his work. I'll use the profits to restore Charenton to her former glory.
Of course, everything's not as harmonious as it seems. I hope you've a strong constitution.
My years tending the lepers at St. Emilion steeled me for life's grisliest offerings, Doctor.
We've still a few lone incurables. Prone to violence, to perversion.
He's wearing a suit again, I don't know why he's wearing a suit, he doesn't usually dress like that 
It's fine.
It's ok. That's alright.
Are you learning how to play the piano? What is that?
I'll go pay for my car.
Are you sure?
Yeah.
He's being weird, I'm sorry. I have no idea why he's being weird and dressed in a suit 
It's not bad, it's ok.
 he's so strange I don't know if you really even would want to go out with him, someone like him, I said I'd try, but it's just 
It's ok, it's alright. I'll come right back, I'll just go pay for my car.
Sorry.
We should be going 
Yeah, no, I have to get something from my car, I said.
I can't find that thing in my car, I can't find it so I'll just get it and give it to you later. So?
You ready?
Are you coming to eat with us?
Are you ready?
Will you call me later to talk about asking Walter for the shrink? And we can talk about  he said you have this crying problem or something?
Bye, Barry.
So I'll meet you at the restaraunt?
Ok.
They need to see the new 484's to make sure it works with their OC....
Ok. What should I do about Eric?
Just tell him to call me.
Ok.
So...did my brother call you?
No.
I have no idea what he's doing then. I'm sorry that didn't work out.
It's fine.
You wouldn't want to go out with him anyway, honestly, he's such a freak sometimes.
He did seem a little strange.
Well...he's not that strange, don't say that.
I'm sorry. You're right.
I think he's weird, but that's me.
Should I call you later?
I'll just see you when you get back here.
Ok.
So they'll go.
I'm only paying two of you guys.
...keys for the track. You have to gas it up and save the receipts on that. His address. We have a business address too if you need that  but hit him at his house first, see what this little bad boy is all about and shake him up  give him a little doeseedoe 
Uch. Shut up, Dean.
What's the problem?
You don't need to talk all macho, "shake him out, little bad boy." Whatever  you're not an action hero, tough guy, you're not a gangster 
Hello?
Hey, it's me. This guy from L.A., Barry Egan is calling on the other line and saying all this stuff, he wants to talk to a supervisor or whatever 
What did you say?
Nothing.
Put him through.
No, no. This is bad, something might have happened, we should just 
Shut up, just put him on the phone, it doesn't matter, just shut up 
That's cool.
When can you leave?
As soon as you want.
I want you to go right away, I think that's best. I also need you to check out a car for me down there that this guy is selling.
Your expenses are your own.
I thought Latisha said you would 
 she didn't know what she was talking about 
It's....whatever....that's not cool.
David, Don't. Just. Seriously. It doesn't make sense if you think about it in a fair deal like sense. Ok? It's business. Seriously. One hundred dollars for two days work is a lot more than your family is making sitting around your house. I'm serious now. Ok. Please. Now. Just stop.
This is this place called Ace Vintage, you gotta find it, I don't know exactly where this is and I don't understand these maps so just go there and check it out. It's a '61 AC Cobra that this old guy says is fine, but I need to figure out why he's only asking 23 for it. So take a look, the whole thing, call me about that, if it seems alright then I'll head down there and check it out.
Ok.
That's it.
Can we maybe ask for more money on this?
This is Barry.
What are you doing?
Hi, Kathleen, I'm just working.
Are you going to the party tonight?
Yes I am.
What are you doing?
Nothing.
Right now, you're doing nothing?
I'm just talking on the phone to you and standing.
What time are you gonna be there?
Seven o'clock.
You can't be late.
I won't.
I'm serious.
I know.
Seriously.
Ok.
You can't be late though.
I know.
You can't just not show up like you do, you have to go.
I know.
Seriously.
I know.
You can't just stay in your house.
I know.
Yeah but I'm serious.
Ok.
I'll see you there.
I'll see you there.
Don't puss out.
I won't.
I don't really remember that.
Yes you do. We were calling you Gay Boy and you got so mad....
Yes, yes, right.
They need to be scanned individually. They each have a bar code, so I need it scanned individually so that each and every cup appears on the receipt...
What is this, man?
I'm sorry.
Are you serious with this?
Yes. Sorry.
Well....what do you want, then?
Each pudding cup has to be scanned individually so that...it's for a giveaway...a product giveaway by this company...
This is a bunch of bullshit.
I'm sorry, I know. I know that it's....
Hey.
Hi.
I need to talk to you for a second.
What?
You gotta give me some money.
You made a phone call and you said you'd help a girl out and then you didn't....I'm here to get the money.
Wait a minute 
No, no, no, no c'mon man, don't make it a thing 
Please don't do this.
It's just you need to give me the money...do you have it right now?
Whoa...whoa...wait, wait  don't please....
How much money do you have in your pockets?
Just take it, take the money in my pockets, take it, it's fine 
It's three hundred and twenty dollars, just take it.
What do you have in the house?
Nothing....I mean, really...change, nothing....that's the cash I have....
You have an ATM?
Yes.
Is this where you live?
Yes.
You have another house somewhere or something?
No.
HEY. You made a fucking sex call and now you're gonna pay. It's not a big thing  just give us some money and then it's over  we'll just walk down to the ATM and get your money out 
Alright, alright.
Ok. This is what you get when you're a pervert  you said you'd help someone out and you didn't so we're just getting some money for her and that's that.
You know, please, I just wanna say that I didn't say I would help her out; I was very clear about it....I don't think that this is fair.....wait, wait, wait, ouch, ouch.....
Hey, good morning, Barry.
Hey...Lance....can I.....
You ok?
Yes I'm fine.
Why you wearin' a suit?
Um....I bought one. I thought maybe it would be nice to get dressed for work, can I show you something?
Yeah.....you got here early huh?
....yes.....
What is this?
I don't know. I think it's a piano....a small piano.
That's not a piano.....I have a piano at home.....where'd you get it?
Why is it here? Barry....Barry?
...it just....I don't know....I don't know.
Good morning, Barry....
Hi, Lance.
What's with all this pudding, what is this?
That's part of a very interesting airline promotion giveaway that's really tremendous. I'm going to start a collection of pudding and coupons that can be redeemed for frequent flyer miles through Healthy Choice and American Airlines 
You're goin' on a trip?
No.........but airline miles are just like a currency these days.
You should go on a trip.
No thanks.
So what should I do with the pudding?
Let's just leave it there for now.
It's not a piano. LANCE! LANCE! MAKE SURE THAT YOU CALL THAT GUY IN TOLEDO.
WHICH?
...I'll tell you later.
Which guy in Toledo are you talking about?
I'll tell you...the guy...with...just talk to me later about it, ok?
You talkin' to me about Ramada Inn?
I have to talk to you in a second about that, Lance, ok?
What's up?
I think I got in trouble. A little bit of trouble....
What happened?
....I made a call..... ....and, uh....
Ok. Well. I'm gonna go out of town. I'm going to go out of town just for two days...
Where you goin?
I'm going to go to Hawaii but you can't tell my sisters that.
Wow, you're goin' to Hawaii, that's great  you're goin  ?
Yeah but you can't tell my sisters that.
Ok.
Alright: And I have to go and buy some more pudding for this trip to Hawaii and as I just said that out loud I'm realizing it sounds a little strange but it's not. So can you come and help me out?
Ok.
You know you can get places in the world with pudding. That's funny.
Yeah.
That's funny.
....now: this pudding?
Yeah.
Let's just figure that out later  Ok. I gotta go. I'm just gonna go now and I'll call you from there, you're in charge 'till I get back. And don't tell my sisters anything? He exits.
Where you been?
Well I had to go to Utah...but now I'm here and I'll be right back.
No, no, no, no, no. What do you mean? It doesn't state anywhere about six to eight weeks.
It takes that much time to process the order and make sure it's valid 
I had this whole thing in my head, I was gonna be able to get this to you today  I have to leave today 
I'm sorry.
How am I supposed to know what to do if you don't say it  if it's not in your rules and regulations in your fine print how am I supposed to know how to be with this 
It takes time to process 
No, no, no, no, nO, NO, NO!
This is Janice the operator, who's this?
My name is Barry Egan and I spoke to you....you called me, you remember?
...no....I don't....I don't remember you. Who's this?
That's not true. That's not true at all. You said that your name was Georgia and you said our conversation was confidential and I trusted you and you kept calling and asking me for money, c'mon now I want to talk to your owner, your supervisor, whoever runs this, you understand. Please connect me now.
Can you hang on a second?
Ok, sir....I'm gonna put you through to my supervisor.
Fine, thank you.
Ok. You're connected.
How you doin' Barry?
Hi Walter.
How's business?
Business is very food, thanks. ELIZABETH What's very food?
Yeah.
That was weird. I meant good.
Maybe you said that because you're hungry.....
What's up?
Well I'm sorry. Before...
Mhm.
And I'm sorry that I did that.
It's alright.
I wanted to ask you because you're a doctor, right?
Yeah.
I don't like the way I am sometimes. Can you help me? WALTER Barry, I'm a dentist, what kind of help do you think I can give you?
I know that. Maybe you know other doctors?
Like a psychiatrist?
I don't have anyone to talk to things about and I understand it's confidential with a doctor  I'm embarrassed about that and I don't want my sisters to know?
You want a number for a psychiatrist, I can get you one, that's not a problem. but what exactly is wrong?
I don't know if there's anything wrong with me because I don't know how other people are.....Sometimes I cry a lot.....for no reason.
You do guaranteed sale? etc.
We back our plungers 100% and we do ask for a 30 to 60 day display on the floor.....
Yes.....we do ask for....30 to 60 days....
I think you have a call?
Sorry about that.
I didn't know you had a sister?
.....Well yes I do.... But one more thing I wanted to tell you guys about the new plungers is that we're making the handles now in a nonbreakable material called.....
How many sisters do you have?
....I have seven.
Who is this?
Hello, my name is Barry Egan and I called your service 
Why don't you shut the fuck up?
What?
I said calm down and shut the fuck up. What's your problem?
I haven't even told you what's happened. Your girl that you have that works there for you threatened me and two men just chased me  extorted money  DEAN Go fuck yourself that shit doesn't have anything to do with me  this is a legitimate bossiness.
YOU GO FUCK YOURSELF. YOU GO FUCK YOURSELF. YOU GO FUCK YOURSELF. MY LOVE WAS HURT, SHE GOT HURT. I AM IN LOVE WITH HER AND YOU HURT YOU AND YOU ARE GONNA FUCKING GET HURT. YOU DON'T TOUCH HER, I LOVE HER.
CALM DOWN SHUT THE FUCK UP AND CALM DOWN SHUT SHUT SHUT UP SHUT UP 
Now are you threatening me, dick?
You are bad. You are a bad person. you are a bad person and you have no right to take people's confidence in your service 
You better watch your mouth, cunt, you're gonna get hurt.
NO. NO. DON'T YOU SAY THAT.
I'll say whatever I want 
YOU FUCK OFF. YOU FUCK OFF AND DIE I WILL HURT YOU FOR HURTING HER. YOU HURT HER.
You just told me to fuck off. That wasn't good. You're dead.
I'm a nice and reasonable man. I didn't do anything wrong. Please don't make me hurt you. And I'm telling you: that if you ever hurt me or if you hurt someone that I love.....I will hurt you many, many, many times over.....because it's not right to take people's trust.
You came all the way from Los Angeles to tell me that?
Yes I did.
Can we agree that that is that?
That's that.
Thank you.
Hi, this is Janice The Operator, who's this?
Hello, how are you?
Hi, is this your first time calling?
Yes it is.
Can I have your credit card number, followed by the expiration date?
Can I ask how much is this?
 it's $2.99 per minute for the first half hour and $1.99 per minute after that.
......and this is confidential?
What do you mean?
It's....confidential, the call, my information is private.
Of course. Would you like to talk to a girl? I can connect you with a beautiful girl if I can just get your credit card number followed by the expiration date?
...3407 2627 3444 8095 expiration 05/04.
And your billing address and the name as it appears on the card?
.....1274 Moorpark. Sherman Oaks, California. #4. 91403.
And your name?
Barry Egan.
And your Social Security number.
What's that for?
It's just for verification through the credit card company.
 and this is confidential?
Of course, it's just for us to verify your credit card information. It's completely confidential and it appears on your credit card billing statement as D&D Mattress Man.
337.....I'm sorry....
It's ok, take your time.
337099876. But I don't want anyone to know my name.
No one will know your name.
Can you say that my name is Jack?
You want her to call you Jack?
I just don't want anyone to know it's me.
That's fine. Can I have a telephone number, area code first on where we can call you back?
No I just....I don't want to, I just want to be connected to talk to a girl.
It's a call back service  a girl will call you back.
I thought I was just gonna be connected to talk to a girl  that's fine, ok, I'm sorry, it's, um.....818....
Why?
Just have you for one second, please.
Yeah.
Did you do it?
No.
You didn't just smash up the bathroom?
No.
Well who did?
I don't know.
You're hand is bleeding.
I cut myself.
How?
On my knife.
Sir, a young man saw you coming out of the bathroom.
I didn't do that.
Why? ...what?
Your hand is bleeding.
I know.
I'm gonna have to ask you to leave.
Why?
Sir, I have no way of proving that you demolished the bathroom 
I didn't do it.
Alright, well you're gonna have to leave. You're gonna have to go.
Yeah, but I didn't do anything.
I'm gonna call the police then, sir.
Please don't do this to me.
The police are on their way.
Sorry.
Can I pay you here? Can I pay you for our drinks and salad?
That's fine.
....I'm not exactly sure what that means...
If they break or something. What is it, plastic?
It's a plastic, yeah.
Right. Alright, lemme call you first thing tomorrow, I'm gonna run the numbers, see what's what and I'll give you a call back 
Did you have my home phone number?
For what?
If you wanted to call me back I could...
I'm fine, I have your work number.
Ok...because of the time difference if you needed to call me early?
It's fine. I can just get you at your office.
Ok.
Ok, bye, bye.
Bye.
Hi. Do you work at the mechanic?
No.
They're not open yet?
They don't get opened until eight.
Is it ok if I leave my car you think?
I don't know.
I thought they opened at seven. If I left my car would it be ok?
I don't know.
Do you know them.
Not very well.
Can I ask you, can I trust to leave my keys with you and give them to you so that when they get here you could give them to them? BARRY Ok.
You think it's ok where I left it, right there?
I think that'll be fine.
There's a piano in the street.
Yeah.
Ok. Maybe I'll see you later. Thank you for your help.
Thank you.
Maybe I'll see you later, when I pick up my car?
Ok.
Hi.
Hi.
Do you remember me, I left my car, yesterday.
Yes I do.
I'm sorry I couldn't come to your sister's birthday party last night, Elizabeth had invited me and I couldn't make it 
It's fine. It was fun, though.
It must be weird for you to have so many sisters?
No. Not at all. It's nice.
Business is good, you're busy?
Yeah, not really.
I saw a picture of you.
Yes. LENA Elizabeth has a picture of you guys  your sisters and you, it's a lot of family, it must be nice.
Do you have brothers or sisters?
No. I'm the exact opposite 
That must be nice. That must be really, really, really great.
It's terrible, no.
What do you do with all this pudding?
That's not mine it's one of the guys that works here. That pudding's not mine.
Oh My God.
It's ok. That's ok. How long have you worked with Elizabeth?
Six months, maybe five, five or six months...do you wanna check that?
Are you guys hurt?
That's great  Hawaii. I was thinking about going there.
Really?
I was, yeah, I was thinking about going there for business 
 well, if you're gonna go 
 I'm probably not gonna go though.
 oh that's too bad, it's so great over there and if you were there we could say hello to each other or something 
 yeah that would be great, if I was gonna go but I'm not exactly sure, I have so much goin on here  A lot depends on this thing I might do here and if that happens I can't go and if it doesn't happen then I probably will, but I doubt it.
It was great to meet you again. To see you again, thanks for helping me yesterday 
Ok.
I'm going to go and eat tomorrow night do you want to go with me?
Sure.
Do you want to pick me up?
Sure.
Can I write down my address and phone number for you?
Sure.
This is funny.
Yeah.
I didn't ask anyone for a shrink, that was someone else. Also: This pudding is not mine. Also: I'm wearing a suit because I had a very important business meeting this morning and I don't have a crying problem.
Ok.
Alright?
....Hi.....
....Hi.....
Who is it?
It's Barry.
...really? That's nice...are you lying?
...I thought I should tell you. I didn't want to get too far along on going out and be hiding something 
That's very nice. Thank you. Thank you for saying that. You're friends with my sister?
Yeah.
How long have you known her?
About six months.
You like her?
Yeah. Yeah we get along well. You didn't get along with her very well?
Did you really come to meet me on purpose or are you lying about that?
No, no. I did.
That's nice. It's nice. I've been looking around a lot lately at promotional giveaways, cross promotional work by some companies. Do you remember all that pudding?
Yeah.
So that pudding was bought, I bought that pudding because of a pretty interesting promotion that's sponsored by Healthy Choice and American Airlines. It's designed to encourage airline travel and obviously designed to encourage buying Healthy Choice products. They make frozen meals, deli meats, pasta sauce, breads, soups and ice creams, this sort of thing.....
Yeah?
....I'm sorry....I lost my thoughts, what I was saying....
You were talking about the promotion 
 the promotion says: buy any 10 Healthy Choice products and get 500 miles of airline travel or 1,000 for purchases made with a special coupon. So in the supermarket, you notice their products, first you notice they have a Teriyaki Chicken Dinner at $1.79  that's a pretty good deal....but then I noticed they had soup at 89 cents a can.....and you start to do the math and you start to notice that it's a really amazing deal because I stumbled across the pudding at 25 cents a cup. Now the crucial thing is the bar codes on the label. That's those little bar codes, you know? The universal product codes?
Yeah.
That's what's used to redeem the mileage, so in noticing the pudding, each cup had an individual bar code  in other words: Two dollars and fifty cents for ten cups of pudding is 500 miles. Add in the coupon: it's one thousand. You see?
Yeah.
You see?
Yeah, no, I see 
You see if you spent $3,000 dollars on pudding you could earn over one million frequent flyer miles.
That's insane. That is really, really crazy. That's just crazy if you spend three thousand dollars on pudding.
....yeah....
So that was your pudding?
....No....
I'm sorry. I thought you said 
No I didn't say that.
I thought you said you bought all that pudding 
My friend Carlos is doing it who works with me. It's his. It's his pudding, he's doing it. It's not mine. He's crazy. I told him not to do it. He's the one who's insane. He only spent about one hundred dollars so far though 
Your sister was telling me a pretty funny story about you, when you guys were kids and you were building a ramp for your dog and you threw a hammer through a window? Is that right? You threw a hammer through a sliding glass door?
Is everything ok?
Yes.
What happened?
Nothing.
What did he want?
Nothing.
I have a better idea of where we can go.
Ok.
There's a better place for us to eat.
Did something happen; are you alright?
Yes I'm fine. Everything is ok. It's fine. Everything is fine.
Your portable reed organ....the piano.
Well, it's fine. Thank you.
Did you pick it up from the street?
What?
Did you take it from the street in front of your work?
...yes I did...?
Are you learning how to play it?
Yes? I'm trying.
Oh that's great.
So you must travel a lot with all that pudding you bought?
Yes no not really.
Ok....well...I'm gonna go.
...yeah...
It was nice to see you again, to see your face again, to go out with you 
I'll be around and back in town in a few days 
Yeah.
If you come to Hawaii 
Yeah, I don't know, we'll see about that.
You don't think you'll go 
I don't know.
Ok. Well call me when you get back, I mean, I'll call you when I get back. I'll be back for three weeks and then I go away for a month after that. So maybe in that time....
Ok. Have a good trip.
This is Barry.
This is Lena.
Hi.
I just wanted you to know, wherever you're going or whatever you're doing right now I want you to know that I wanted to kiss you just then.
Really?
Yeah.
So what do I do then?
That was good.
Yeah.
I'll see you later.
Ok.
I don't freak out very often.
What do you mean?
I don't, no matter what my sisters say, ok?
...I don't know what you mean....
I don't freak out.
Ok.
Have a good trip.
Thank you.
Hello?
Lena?
Yeah?
It's Barry.
HI. WHERE ARE YOU? ARE YOU HERE?
Yes.
OH WOW. YEAH. THAT'S GREAT. YOU CAME, YOU CAME. What are you doing?
I'm calling you, I'm standing in my hotel room, I came because I have my business trip 
Well let's do something do you want to do something, can you meet me?
You don't have a boyfriend or anything do you?
No. What do you mean? BARRY I just wanted to know. When was the last time you had a boyfriend?
About six months ago. Why?
I just wanted to make sure.
When was the last time you had a girlfriend?
Where you married?
yeah.
Ok. So you were married for how long?
Do you want to meet me and talk about this stuff?
Ok. Where are you from originally?
You got me out of my hotel room. You came and got me out of my room.
Yeah......yeah.....
It's so nice.
This really looks like Hawaii here.
Do you wanna have sex?
Yeah.
Oh my god, you are so adorable. I just....god dammit.
What's that? What is that that you're doing?
I just...your face is so adorable and your cheek and your skin, I wanna bite it....I wanna bite your cheek and chew on it....god damn cute....fuck....
I know what you mean, I know what you mean, I get this feeling 
...what...?
IIIIIIIIIII don't want to hurt anything ever, but what I'm talking about is  have you ever held a little puppy or a little kitten and it's just the cutest, softest, most precious thing in the world and out of the blue you get this feeling in your gut and all you wanna do is squeeze it. Just fuckin squeeze the shit out of it. To take a little puppy and smash its skull...just so precious, so beautiful. Just so god damn wonderful and cute you wanna smack it and kick it and love it. Fuck. I don't know. I don't know. And you, you.....I'm looking at you and I just....your face is so beautiful I just wanna smash it, just smash it with a sledgehammer and squeeze it...you're so pretty.
I know. I know. I know. I just wanna chew your face and scoop out your beautiful, beautiful eyes with an ice cream scooper and eat 'em and chew 'em and suck on 'em. Fuck.
This is funny.
Yeah.
This is nice.
Where do you have to go?
For what?
For work.....
I don't have any business here. I came here for you, I didn't have any business.
How many times have you been on an airplane?
I think maybe over a hundred.
That's right you travel so much.
Yeah.
I forgot about that.
Can I come home with you when we get there?
Yeah.
It's ok to ask that.
I thought that you were anyway.
Are you ok?
I'm fine are you ok?
Yes I'm sorry.
What is this?
Let's go to the hospital.
Lena I'm so sorry. I'm so sorry that I left you at the hospital..... I called a phone sex line. I called a phone sex line before I met you and then these four blond brothers came after me and you got hurt and I'm sorry  and I had to leave because I don't want you to get hurt again and now I'm here and I'm back and I have a lot of pudding that I can redeem in six to eight weeks and if you give me that much time I can get enough miles to fly with you wherever you have to go if you have to travel for your job because I don't want to be anywhere without you.....can you please let me redeem the mileage?
You left me at the hospital.
I'm sorry.
You can't do that.
Ok.
If you give me six to eight weeks I can redeem the mileage and then I can with you wherever you have to travel......
So here we go.
Hello, this is Back.
Hi, is this Jack?
Yes.
This is Georgia.
Hi. This is Jack.
So what are you doing tonight, Jack?
Nothing.
Nothing, huh, do you know what I'm doing?
No.
I'm just laying on my bed.
Where are you?
I'm in my bedroom.
No, I mean, what city, what state are you in?
Are you watching a porno movie?
No.
Do you like porno movies?
Sure.
Yeah....? So...Jack...are you stroking that big fat fucking cock of yours?
....no....
Yeah? So what are you doing, then?
...just talking to you....
Are your pants off?
No.
I'm wearing a tshirt and panties.
Really?
Yeah. And looking at myself in the mirror. Do you wanna know what I look like?
It doesn't matter.
What do you mean it doesn't matter?
Well. I have no way of knowing. So it doesn't matter.
I don't lie, Jack. I'm about 5'8, blonde 34,28,34. Pretty thin, I work out. My pussy's shaved. My friends say I'm pretty cute, so....
Really?
What do you mean, "really?" Yeah. Really. What about you?
It doesn't matter.
Yeah....you're married aren't you, Jack?
No.
You have a girlfriend?
...yes...
Where is she?
She's...not here...she went out. She went out of town, she travels a lot.
I'm horny, Jack, what about you?
...yeah.....
Does Jack like to Jack Off?
Sometimes when I'm lonely.
...yeah....well you have me now.
You sound very cute, very nice.
Thank you. What do you do, Barry?
I have my own business....I work. I work hard at doing my business.
Yeah....do you do well, do you make alotta money?
I do pretty good, I think. I wish I was making more, doing a little bit better. I can,t get over a certain hump. I will...I will crack something soon I think and really do better...I'd like to diversify...but I'm doing great, I think, as a start.
So.....are you stroking it, yet, honey?
No.
Well why don't you take your pants off and stroke it for me?
Ok. SEXY VOICE Yeah...that's it...God I Am So Horny...I wish I was there to help you.....I wish I was there for you, Barry.
Hello?
Hey. What are you doing? How are you?
I'm fine. Who is this?
Georgia.
Hi....what....what's up....?
It's ok that I'm calling, right, I mean? It's ok.
Yeah. No. It's ok. What's goin' on?
I just wanted to call and talk to you, thank you for last night, try and get you before you went to work and say, "hey."
I'm going to work.
Uhhh...I am sooo tired...I stayed up too late last night, what about you, when did you go to sleep?
Not very late.
You're going to work now?
Yes.
Can I ask you a question?
Uhhuh.
Remember last night I was talking to you and I was telling you about my apartment, my rent  ? Do you remember?
Yes.
This is really weird and really embarrassing for me but....uh.... I was wondering if you could help me out with a little bit of money.
Me?
Yeah.
I can't really. Yeah, no. I mean. I can't afford it.
You don't even know how much it is.
I know but I....how much is it?
Like sevenfifty. Seven hundred fifty?
Yes, no, yes. I can't. I can't afford that. I'm sorry. Sorry.
Really? Please?
You have trouble, financial trouble?
Yeah. It's so hard these days and I really need it.
Yes I can't....I don't make enough money to be able to do that.
I thought you had your own business. You said you were gonna diversify and all that stuff....
So you think you can?
No. I'm sorry.
Should I call back and talk to your girlfriend?
....what....?
I was wondering if it's better to ask your girlfriend for the money? It could be really easy. I mean, I have all your information, credit card information and billing stuff 
Hello?
We got disconnected before....
No. No. We got disconnect  why?.....you're calling me at work....how did you get this number  ?
See the thing is I could make it really easy on you  I already have your credit card number, your information, address and stuff. This is so awkward asking like this, I'm sorry 
This makes me very uncomfortable.
I need help.
Should I just ask your girlfriend? Maybe I should call back and talk to your girlfriend?
I don't have a girlfriend 
 you said you did.
I know I did. But I don't.
You lied to me?
I didn't lie.
Why did you tell me you did, then?
This is....illegal....I'll call the police.
No you won't.
Come on, I thought we had fun, rich boy 
This is not cool.
It was cool last night.
I have to go.
Are you telling me no?
No I'm sorry, now I have to get off the phone....
....this is your mistake....
...MOTHERFUCKER, NO....
She is. I think, why did you come here like this?
Hello?
You've just made a war that you cannot afford.
Hey, how are you? BARRY I'm fine, hi, how are you?
I'm just stopping by to say hello.
Hello.
So you're coming tonight, right?
Yes, indeed, yes I am.
There's this girl, this friend of mine from work that I think is really cute and really cool and I want you to meet her so I was thinking about bringing her to the party tonight.
Oh yeah no I don't want to do that.
Why?
Well I don't want to do something like that.
She's my friend and you should meet her. You'd like her.
Yeah, but please don't do that.
I'm not really asking you, I'm telling you.
Yeah but please don't do that: everyone would be looking at me.
It's a free country, we can look at you if we want to.
Yes but I get tense and I feel like I can't be myself if that happens.
That's your fault not mine.
I don't think I'm going to the party.
So it's ok if I bring her.
Please don't.
She's really cute and she's really nice.
...please, I just don't want it....
....wait a minute: why is this about you now? Why is it always about you?
Yeah, no, it's not, it's just 
I'm trying to be your friend.
I know.
I'm trying to get you a girlfriend.
Well, yeah, thank you, but 
 but since you're not going I guess none of this matters and I'll bring her anyway.
Hey....I was just telling everyone about how I was gonna bring this girl for you but you wouldn't let me do it.
Hello everyone.
You just said very food.
Did I say that?
You're lucky. She couldn't come anyway 
Well I'm glad you didn't, thank you.
She couldn't come I said. Are you nervous?
No.
You look nervous.
I'm not, I'm very happy.
Hey, what are you doing? Why are you wearing a suit again?
I don't know.
This is Lena, she's a good friend of mine from work. We were in the neighborhood and she had to pick up her car and we're getting breakfast before we go in, so did you want to go? We're gonna go and eat, let's go.
Yeah I can't.
Why?
I have work, I can't leave.
Seriously, though: We're going to eat, I said.
I'm sorry.
Hey, hey, you should ask her out  what do you think, she's cute, right?
I'm gonna call you back.
It's not cool?
It's fine, but 
 do you think you'll ask her out?
I feel really on the spot now.
Are you gonna do it?
I don't do that. I don't  things like that.
You don't do anything, why are you being scared?
I'm not being scared, you're just going to rag me if I do this 
I'm not gonna rag you. Why would I do this just to rag you?
I don't know.
I'll leave then, I'll go to get something from my car, go away so you don't feel pressure. Can I ask you a serious question:
What?
Did you ask Walter to get you a shrink? Barry, did you ask Walter to get you a shrink? What's wrong with you? Are you ok?
I didn't ask him that. He's lying.
You're being weird again, see. Come on. Please don't be weird.
Yeah I can't.
OH MY GOD. Look at that.
What's all this pudding?
It's not mine.
Why's it here?
I have no idea.
Goodbye.
Call me later.
Hey. What are you doing?
Nothing. I'm just at work and I'm wondering, you know your friend Lena?
What about her? You didn't ask her out, you're such a pussy 
....she didn't, I didn't ask her out?
You're so scared.
Do you know where she's staying in Hawaii?
Oh My God, yeah, I know exactly where she is, why?
......she forgot her purse at my work and I wanted to get it back to her.
No she didn't; that's a lie.
I....please don't do this.
What? Tell me why you wanna know 
I just want to know where she's staying.
Tell me why.
There is no reason for you to treat me like you do  you're killing me, you are killing me with the way that you are towards me 
 what are you talking about, come on 
 all I want is the number of where she's staying and that should be god damn good enough, now stop treating me this way, please  Just Give Me The Number Elizabeth Please Now I think I will kill you if you don't.
...yes I'm still on hold...
And what was this?
I'm looking at your advertisement for the airline promotion and giveaway?
This is "Fly With Us?"
It's hard to understand because it says in addition to but I can't exactly understand in addition to what because there's actually nothing to add it too...
I think that's a typeo then, that would be a mistake.
So, just to clarify, I'm sorry: Ten purchases of any of your Healthy Choice products equals five hundred miles and then with the coupon the same purchases would value one thousand miles 
That's it.
Do you realize that the monetary value of this promotion and the prize is potentially worth more than the purchases?
I don't know...I mean: I don't know.
It's extension 215 if you want to try me back.
Ok. Thank you.
What city?
Somewhere in Utah.
What's the listing?
D&D Mattress Man.
This is Barry.
Hey it's me, what are you doing?
Hello, Karen. I'm just working.
Yeah but what are you doing?
I'm just working....I have some customers here.....
So you can't talk to me?
I have a few people here, I can't really chat right now.
"chat?" Did you just say "chat?"
Well, I can't talk though 
You just fucking said "chat," that is so  what are you now? "chat." I'm just calling to make sure you show up at this party tonight.
Yes, I'll be there.
Fine. You get back to chatting with your precious customers.
Ok, byebye.
Did you think that we'd all be looking at you?
No, no, no.
Well it's just not true. We wouldn't be looking at you  why are you wearing this suit? Did you say hello to your brother in law's?
Hey.
Hey.
Saw you at the mall yesterday.
Yeah ... Saw you too.
So you watching Pearl Jam on MTV tonight?
Yeah.
So uh ... Maybe we could uh ...
Cool.
Cool.
TV repair.
TV repair?
Yeah. TV busted?
Yeah ...
Well here I am.
You think you could do this like soon? It's almost six thirty.
What's the rush?
Gosh, I loved that show. Watched it for years.
That's not the reason. I've got a date at six thirty.
Heywho did Muff in take to the masquerade ball when her date came down with the measles?
Umhello? I've got like a social emergency here.
Remember the one where Bud lost his cousin when he was s'posed to be watching him?
Free?
Oh sure. Big fan like yourself. It's the least I could do.
Told you it was your lucky day. Bet you thought I was just a fan or something.
What happened?
A miracle.
Dream come true, hunh?
This isn't funny! I happen to have a very important date in like five minutes!
Well, you don't have to worry about that anymore.
Oh GOD ...
You knowthis is a pretty strange way of showing your appreciation.
Bud?
Sorry ... I had to help my folks and then I couldn't find my hat ...
Oh.
What's wrong?
WellI always wipe down the counter and then you set out the napkins and glasses and then I make the french fries ...
Yeah ...
But you didn't come so I kept on wiping.
You know, if this ever happens again, you can make the fries even if I haven't put out the napkins yet.
I'm so glad you're here.
I understand.
There aren't any cheeseburgers.
What?
Well, usually I put out the burger and then you finish with the lettuce ...
Listen to me!
Do you have the lettuce?
... Yeah.
Have you cooked the burgers?
Yes.
Well you can just put on the lettuce, finish the burger and pretend it was me doing it all along.
Oh hi!
Hi there. You took off so quick. I wasn't sure if you were okay.
Oh, yeah. Sorry. I'm fine. I just ... Had to get home early.
Bud ...
Yeah ...
You know how when we close up, I close the register, then you lower the shades, then I turn out the lights, then we both lock the doors.
Yeah ...
Well you weren't around this time so I did the whole thing myself.
Two cheeseburgers, two cherry cokes.
There aren't any cheeseburgers.
Look. I thought we talked about this, I thought we said ...
Ohwhat's the point, Bud?
Well ... I'm not sure I see the point anymore.
What are you talking about! You make hamburgers! That is the point!
No I know ... I know I do ... But it's always the same, you know? Grill the bun, flip the meat, melt the cheese ... It never changes. It never gets any better or worse ...
Just listen to me ...
... Like the other night, when I closed up by myself. That was different ...
Forget about that!
Oh ... Okay. ... But I really liked it.
Look, you can't always like what you do. Sometimes you just do it because it's your job. And even if you don't like it, you just gotta do it anyway.
Why?
So they can have their hamburgers!
You know what I really like?
... What's that?
Christmastime.
Wow ... That's pretty good ...
Thanks. But this morning I was thinking about it and I realized that I looked forward to it all year. And then I thought "Gee. That seems awfully silly. That seems like an awfully long time to be waiting for just one moment, don't you think?"
Well don't you?
I think you should try not to think about this anymore.
Really?
Yeah.
Oh. Okay. I'll try that then.
Oh, hi.
Hi.
Aren't you a little early?
I brought you something ... From the library.
It's an art book.
Oh my Gosh, Bud ...
Open it.
What's wrong?
I'll never be able to do that.
Oh, wellyou're just starting out. I mean, you can't do it ...
No, that's not it.
It's okay. We'll get you a new one.
I don't know what I'd do if I couldn't paint anymore Bud. I just don't know what I'd do ...
Well how do you know it won't go back to the way it was?
You're gonna keep painting aren't you?
It's beautiful.
Just a littleYou know.
Holy cow. Look at that. Had a little disaster didn't ya fella.
Yeah ... Sort of ...
We'll get you fixed up in no time.
I know how I'd feel if mine went out. Almost like losing a friend.
You know, we didn't call any TV repair.
Well that makes it a lucky day for both of us, hunh?
... Her father.
Right. And how did she dress him?
... Like Prince Charming.
Nice ... Nice ...
Yeah ...
What department store did they go to?
McIntire's.
McGinty's.
No. McIntire's. Remember: "For the very best in men's attire, Head right down to McIntire's."
That's right.
Saywhy don't you take this remote instead. It's got a little more "Ooomph" in it.
Ooomph?
Sure. Big beautiful set like thisyou want something that'll put you right in the show.
How much does it cost?
Ohcouldn't charge you for something like that. It's free.
... See, every time I thought I'd found someone they'd turn out to disappoint me. They'd know the early episodes, but they wouldn't know the later ones ... They'd know all about Muffin but they wouldn't know about Bud ...
What the hell's going on!
Shh! Can't talk like that now. You're in ... You know ...
Why would I do that?
Because we don't belong!
Oh sure you do ... "McIntire's Department store" ... "Their father dressed as Prince Charming." That was gorgeous Bud.
My name's David.
Lookwe appreciate it. We really do. We justwe want to go home now.
But you don't know how long I've been looking for someone like you.
Don't get upset.
Weil wouldn't you! You look for someone for years ... You pour your heart into it ... This is a privilege you know. I don't think I better talk about this right now.
Where are you going ...
I don't think we should discuss this until I'm a little bit more composed.
WAIT A MINUTE!!
Maybe in a day or so when I'm not so emotional ...
COME BACK!!!
Hello there.
... Hi.
Well c'mere, young fella.
So even though I can't make any promises, wellI figured if you asked me real niceI might just be willing to talk about it again.
I can't.
What?
Talk about it. Right now, I mean. I got to ... um ...
BudI thought you wanted to come home.
Oh ... I do. Yeah. It's just that I told my "dad" I'd clean out the rain gutters and Mr. Johnson wanted me to ... to change the tape in the register ...
I'll be honest with you Bud. I'm getting sorta concerned about what I'm seeing in some of these reruns ...
Reruns?
Like when Margaret Henderson makes her cookies for Whitey. ... Those aren't your cookies Bud.
Oh, I know they're not. But I mean they're just "cookies" after all ...
Excuse me?
Well they're not just cookies. I mean, they're great cookies ... Look, I'd love to get into this whole thing but I'm really running late. Why don't we hook up tomorrow?
BUD.
Terrific. I'll talk to you then.
I want a word with you ...
Ohwell ...
NOW!
What do you mean?
What do I MEAN! You think this is a toy? You think it's your own little goddamn coloring book ...
Lookit just sort of "happened" ...
A deluge doesn't just "happen." Bolts of lightning don't just "happen" ... You burned down an ELM tree for Christ's sake ...
I had nothing to do with that.
Oh. I'm sorryrefresh my memory. What episode does the orgy happen in, again?
Look ...
It was a gift Bud. It was so special. You liked these things as much as I did, remember: Warm smells in the family kitchen? A smile from a stranger? You know how rare that is?
... Only if they mean it.
OKAY. NOW YOU'RE REALLY STARTING TO PISS ME OFF!
I didn't do anything wrong.
Oh no? Let me show you something!
Where's the remote control I gave you?
Why?
Because you're coming home. I'm gonna put this place back the way it was.
No you're not.
EXCUSE ME?
I'm sorry ... I can't let you do that.
JUST GIMME THE GODDAMN REMOTE!
OW!
I'm going to leave now.
You're not going anywhere. You're gonna get that remote and you're gonna come home and we're gonna make everybody HAPPY AGAIN!!!
Hope you're proud of yourself.
I am actually ... Glad to see you've finally shown your true colors.
Okay, let's cut the shit and get right to it. Where's that remote control?
Why?
Because you're coming home.
Why don't you just take me back without it?
Oh. You're a smart little bastard aren't you? It's kind of like a restricted ticket. You gotta leave the same way you came.
So ... I guess as long as I'm here, all sorts of things could happen to this place. We could have pink lawns and blue trees ...
Just gimme the damn remote!
I'm sorry. I can't do that.
I don't know what went wrong. You answered every question. You knew every detail. The senior Prom ... McIntire's Department Store. We had all the same warm memories: Sock hops. The Church Social ...
They weren't my memories. I borrowed them. It's no good when you borrow them.
How long do you think you've been here?
I don't know ... Three, four weeks.
Much less than that. An hour and a half.
Now Buddy, you're going on trial tomorrow. And if they find you guilty, you're gonna be stuck here forever. Well, not foreverlemme think ... Five year sentence ... Carry the three ... That comes out to ... sixteen and a half centuries, and that's rounding down.
I'm going on trial tomorrow?
This is TV pal. They don't fool around.
There's worse places.
Oh sure. For the first hundred years. Then it starts to get a little monotonous. Sleep well.
Okay, whose window did Bud break when he was playing with his father's golf clubs?
Easy. Mr. Jenkins. What JOB did Mr. Jenkins have?
Salesman. What did Bud and Mary Sue name the cat they found in the gutter?
Scout?
Marmalade.
You're unbelievable. You'll win this thing for sure. When is it on?
Marathon starts at 6:30. Contest's tomorrow at noon.
A thousand dollars ... And it's on all night?
Of course it is Howard. That's why they call it a Marathon.
That was sure swell ...
Oh. Thanks, Margaret.
I baked you my oatmeal cookies.
Oh, no ... You baked those for Whitey.
No. I baked them for you.
No. You baked them for Whitey.
No. I baked them for you.
Keeps going ...
Wellit all just keeps going. Roads ... rivers ...
Hi.
Oh ... Hi.
Look, I probably shouldn't be asking you thisnot knowing you that well and all ...
Sure ... Where would we go?
... Lover's Lane?
Um ... You gotta turn off Main Street.
Oh ... Right.
Mmmmgh.
Do they have those ... Where you come from?
Yeah ... I guess. I don't know.
You don't know?
So what's it like?
What?
Out there.
How?
Well it's louder ... And scarier I guess ... And ... and a lot more dangerous ...
Sounds fantastic. You know some kids came up here the other night to go swimmingtook off all their clothes.
Do they have an Ocean? I've heard about the ocean.
Yeah.
What's that like?
Well it's big. And it's blue ... ... It's really really blue.
Mmmm. Boy. It's hot up here.
You want some berries?
Hunh?
I picked them myself. They grow wild up here. Mmm. So sweet.
They just grow like that?
Oh yeah. There's a lot of stuff. Currants and strawberries ... Here. I'll show you.
What's going on?
Rain.
Real rain?
Yeah ... You don't have rain either?
What do we do?
We'll just put up the top.
It's beautiful. Where'd you get it?
It was a prop for the school play ...
Can I open it?
Sure ...
Where are they?
I'm not sure.
You're gonna forget about me.
No I won't. I swear.
I like calling you David.
I like it too.
What are you doing?
What are you doing?
David, cut it out. Mark Davis is gonna like be here in five minutes.
Well great. The Pleasantville Marathon starts at six thirty.
Pleasantville Marathon?
Yeah. Every episode ever.
Omigod, I don't belieeeeve this! He's gonna like beeeee here!
Weil great. You can watch TV upstairs.
Upstairs! Upstaiiirs! There isn't any STEREO!
Oh my God ... Oh my God ...
David, stop stressing, you can like turn it on normally ...
No you can't, Jen! It's a new TV. It doesn't work without a remote.
Lemme see that.
No way.
Do you mind. This is like the most important moment of my whole life.
Forget it Jen, I've waited a year for this.
God, David. Just give it to me!
Get lost!
YOU get lost!
Oh my God.
What happened?
I'm not sure.
What did you do?
I don't know.
Uchh! Look at me?! I'm like so ... pasty!
Noooooo!
Youyou gotta get us out of here.
Oh God.
What's going to happen?
I don't know ... It's not possible ... Is it possible?
I don't believe this.
Neither do I.
I'm gonna hurl, David. I swear to God.
Just take deep breaths.
All that animal fat. I feel it in my pores or something.
I still don't see why we're doing this.
We're supposed to be in school.
We're supposed to be at home David! We're supposed to be in color! Oh God ...
You know him?
Owns the hardware store.
Okay, now you listen to me! I don't know what's going on but you'd better fix it! I had a date with Mark Davis and I even bought new UNDERWEAR!
We just gotta play along for a little while ... till that guy shows up again. Then I'll talk to him and ...
Play along?
Well, yeah. I'm ... Bud Parker and you're ... umMary Sue.
No! I'm not gonna do it! If I don't dress like this for Mom I'm sure as hell not going to do it for you!
We don't have a choice Jen. We're stuck until he comes back.
Why can't we just EXPLAIN IT?
To who?
Who's that?
Biff Martin. Captain of the basketball team.
Does heyou knowlike "me"?
As a matter of fact he does.
Hunh.
Those are my friends.
Peggy Jane, Lisa Anne and Betty Jean.
Can we do any better?
I don't think so.
No way.
One date, Jenthat's all I'm asking. If you don't go out with this guy we could throw their whole universe out of whack.
It's too weird David. This place is giving me the creeps. Did you know all the books are blank?
What?
I looked in the library. They got covers with nothing inside them.
What were you doing in a library?
I got lost. Oh here ... look at this!
JENNIFER!
Just watch. You know why those guys just get cats out of trees? 'Cause nothing burns around here, that's why! They don't need any firemen ...
Jen, listen ...
I likereally need a cigarette, too.
I'll get us out of here. I really will. But if we don't play along we could alter their whole existence. We may never get home.
I could like kill a guy with these things.
It's in your closet.
I've worn some kinky stuff before ...
He won't notice anyway.
What do you mean?
They don't notice that kind of thing.
So what's the point?
Jen please ...
Hello? I've got like three pounds of underwire here ...
Just go with the programhunh? I'm late for work.
Couple of cheeseburgers and two cherry cokes. If you need anything, I'll be right over there.
Gee whiz "Bud", what could we possibly need when we have each other?
What did you do to him?
Nothing.
You can't do this, Jennifer. I WARNED you.
So what's the big deal. Oh. Okay. They're like not good at basketball anymore. Likeomigod, what a tragedy.
You don't understand. You're messing with their UNIVERSE.
Well maybe it needs to be messed with. Did that ever likeoccur to you? You know, they don't want to be like this, it's just that nobody ever helped them before.
You have no right to do this.
Well if I don't who will?
They're happy like this.
David, nobody's happy in a Poodle skirt and a sweater set. You like all this don't you?
I mean, you don't think it's just like dorky or funny or something ... you really like it. Oh God! I am just so personally horrified right now ...
I just don't think we have the right to ...
David, let me tell you something. These people don't want to be geeks. They want to be "attractive." They've got a lot of potential, they just don't know any better.
They don't have that kind of potential.
Umhello? You want to like take a look?
Me too. Sounds swell.
Really? It seems so fattening.
I had nothing to do with that fire.
It's okay.
Not directly anyhow ...
It's fine.
Um ... They like wanna ask you a question ... I didn't know how to handle it. So ...
Sure.
Okay look, this likewasn't my fault. They asked me what it was about and I like didn't remember 'cause we had it back in tenth grade, But I told them what I DID remember, and the next thing I knew the pages had filled in.
The pages filled in?
But like only up to the part about the raft, because I didn't read any farther.
What's wrong?
Nothing.
Nothing?
You're reading?
Yeah. Can't believe you started such a dorky fad.
D.H. Lawrence. You ever heard of him?
... Yeah.
Seemed kinda sexy. Look. I read 35 pages.
That's great.
So what is it?
Well ... I just ... Can I ask you a question?
Sure.
Remember when you told me that Lisa Rosenberg liked me?
Yeah ...
Welldid she really like me or were you just making that up.
No. She really liked you.
You weren't playing a joke? She woulda gone out with me?
Gone out with you. She woulda like rearranged your tonsils.
Wow.
Can I ask you a question?
Yes.
How come I'm still in black and white?
What?
Well I've had like ten times as much sex as these girls and I'm still like this. They have one hour in the back of a car and suddenly they're in technicolor.
Oh, I don't know. Maybe ... ... it's not just the sex ...
What?
Are you sure?
I told you. I'm like positive.
This thing works. We could go home right now.
I'm not ready yet. I gotta do this for a little while.
Besides. You think there's like a chance I'm gonna get into college back there?
Honestly ... no.
You got the admissions letter.
Right here.
And you're sure about this?
I've done the slut thing, David. It's really kinda old.
Hello Bud.
Hello Mr. Simpson.
Hear your Dad got a new car.
Oh yeah. A Buick. It's swell.
Mr. Simpson ...
Yes.
What color is that hedge of yours?
Green.
No, not that hedge. The other one.
The other one?
The one in your mind. The one that you see on a bright cold morning. The one that you see when you walk in front of your house and you just stand there and stare.
How'd you know about the fire?
What?
How'd you know how to put it out and all?
And where's that?
Um ... Outside of Pleasantville.
What's outside of Pleasantville?
Look it doesn't matter. It's not important.
What is it?
"It was big 'n brown 'n kept goin' an' goin' as far you could see."
I thought the books were blank?
Dan! Arrest them!
Um ... I don't know how to do that, Bob.
What do you mean!?
Well, I never had to do it before.
You put handcuffs on them and you take them to the police station.
Oh. guess I could do that, then.
Did you do this?
Yes I did.
Do you know that it's illegal?
Yes I do.
BUDWHY DID YOU DO THIS?
Because anybody should be able to paint in whatever color they want.
You're not allowed to do this! I could arrest you for this.
Still doesn't make it right.
Bud Parker and William Johnson, you have been charged with desecration of a public building and the intentional use of prohibited paint colors in violation of the Pleasantville Code of Conduct and laws of common decency. Do you admit that on the night of May 1, you did consciously and willfully apply the following FORBIDDEN colors to the Pleasantville Town Hall: Red, Pink, Vermillion, Puce, Chartreuse, Umber, Blue, Aqua, Ox Blood, Green, Peach, Crimson, Yellow, Olive and Magenta.
Um ... Yes I do. Where's our lawyer?
We prefer to keep these proceedings as "pleasant" as possible. I don't think a lawyer will be necessary.
Do you further admit that this was done surreptitiously and under the cover of darkness?
Wellit was dark out ...
Good. Do you further admit that this unnatural depiction occurred in full public view where it was accessible to, and in plain sight of, minor children?
It was accessible to everyone.
Very well. Let the record show that the defendants have answered in the affirmative to all the charges.
I think I've got something to say.
Very well ...
It's like the basketball team.
The basketball team?
Sure. Everybody's upset because they're not winning anymorebut just think how it would feel if all of a sudden they do win.
See, I know you want it to stay "Pleasant" but there are so many things that are so much better: like Silly ... or Sexy ... or Dangerous ... or Wild ... or Brief ... And every one of those things is in you all the time if you just have the guts to look for them. Look at those faces back there. They're no different than you are. They just happened to see something inside themselves that you don't want to ...
Okaythat's enough!
I thought I was allowed to defend myself.
You're not allowed to lie.
I'm not lying ... Here I'll show you.
YOU'RE OUT OF ORDER!
Why am I out of order?
BECAUSE I WILL NOT ALLOW YOU TO TURN THIS COURTROOM INTO A CIRCUS!
Well I don't think it's a circus. And I don't think they do either.
THIS BEHAVIOR WILL STOP AT ONCE.
But see that's just the point. It can't stop at once. Because it's in you. And you can't stop something that's in you.
It's not in ME.
Oh sure it is.
No it isn't.
Want some bridge mix?
Oh, no thanks ...
Betty's making some pineapple kabobs ...
I'm finebut thank you.
I'm sure you've noticed the same things we all havecertain "changes" going on in the town. You know what I mean by "changes"?
"Changes."
"Changes." And it's not just the fire or big stuff like that. It's little things. Did you hear about Bill Miller?
No. What?
Wife wants him to get one of those new beds.
One of those ... big beds?
Oh my gosh. What's he gonna to do?
I really don't know. Ben Miller's son just quit his job as a boxboy at the market.
... How?
No. They do. And it isn't just 'cause you're a great bowler ... They respect you ...
Thank you very much.
And it's important for them to see someone they respect, stand up for what's right. If you love a place, you can't sit around and watch this kind of thing happen to it.
No. Of course not.
And that's why I want you to be on the Pleasantville Chamber of Commerce.
Oh my Gosh. I hardly know what to say.
Why don't you start by saying "yes," and then getting me one of those swell pineapple kabobs.
Oh sure ... You bet. Betty ...
Are you alright? What is it?
Rain.
Real rain?
What happened?
Well, I ... I came home like I always do, And I came in the front door. And I took off my coat. And I put down my briefcase and I said "Honey. I'm home."
Maybe you can't even describe it. Maybe you only know it when it's gone. Maybe it's like there's a whole piece of you that's missing too. You might even call it "love."
Okay, that's IT!!!
Now don't you think she looks just as pretty in color? Don't you think she looks just as pretty as she did the day you met her?
C'mon. Everyone's turning colors. Kids are making out in the street. No one's getting their dinner hell, you could have a flood any minute ... Pretty soon you could have the women going off to work while the men stayed home and cooked ...
That's not going to happen!
But it could happen.
No it couldn't!
Oh God! Are we in that episode?
What?
I don't believe it.
What's the matter?
You want to ask her out tonight, right? And then you want to give her your school pin ...
Yeah ... How'd you know?
Lucky guess. Look, Biff ... I don't think it's a real good time for that right now ...
What I mean is ... Mary Sue's been a little "different" lately ...
She won't go out with me?
I didn't say that. It's just that right now ...
I don't know what I'd do if she wouldn't go out with me ...
What'll it be?
Gee whizz, Bud. Guess I'll just have the usual. Cheeseburger and a cherry coke.
What's all the commotion? Where's the cat?
Um ... It's ...
I sure am glad you said you'd come out with me tonight Mary Sue.
Well "gee whizz" Biff. I sure am glad you asked me.
I don't know if I ever said this to you before, but, well ... I think you're just about the keenest girl in the whole school ...
Really Biff? The keenest?
Oh yeah.
Gosh. I hardly know what to say.
... And you always seemed so smart and everything. Like that report you did on "Our Town Hall." Gosh. I didn't know what I'd talk to you about.
Well, sometimes talking's overrated. Don't you think?
Hunh? Oh, right ...
So I know I haven't been steady with anybody, but I just don't want to rush it. You don't want to make a mistake with something that important.
Oh, gosh no.
I mean, there's kids that are even holding hands already but I figure there's plenty of time for that kind of thing later on. Don't you?
Oh you bet. Will you excuse me for a sec?
Anyhow ... I really wanted to come over and sit next to you in civics but ...
You want to get out of here?
What?
You wanna get out of here? You wanna leave?
But where would we go?
... Lover's Lane.
Lover's Lane!
Sure is pretty.
Oh yeah ... Gorgeous.
To be honest Mary Sue. I didn't think you'd want to come here until we'd been pinned for a little while.
Oh, Biff. You can "pin" me any time you want to.
... Why?
I think ... I might be ill ...
It's s'posed to happen, Biff.
It is?
Trust me ...
Mary SueC'mon ...
What are you doing?
It's sixthirty ...
So.
We were gonna ... You know ...
Oh. I can't.
Why not?
I'm busy.
With what?
Don't! Just let go.
It's better, Mary Sue.
I said, NO! ... I've read like one book in my whole life and I'll be damned if I let you throw it on that fire ...
How was your day?
Oh, swell. You know, Mr. Connel said that if things keep going the way they are, I might be seeing that promotion sooner than I thought.
Oh darling that's wonderful! I always knew you could do it.
Bud, your sister's a little older now and she's naturally going to start going out with boys. ... In fact pretty soonshe's even going to get married and make someone a good little homemaker like your mother here. That's IF she can learn to bake.
Oh, George ...
But your sister is a fine young woman and she would never do anything for us to be concerned about.
I told you where I was.
All night?
I got caught in the storm. You were gone all night too.
I was in a bowlingalley.
Look. Let's just forget about it. Let's just go to the meeting and ...
I told you, George. I'm not going.
Sure you are.
No I'm not.
Look at me George. That meeting's not for me. Look at my face.
It's fine. You'll put on some make up and ...
I don't want to put on some make up ...
It goes away ... It'll go away.
I don't want it to go away.
Okaynow you listen to me ... You're gonna come to this meeting and you're gonna put on this make up, and you're gonna come home at six o'clock every night and have dinner ready on this table.
No I'm not sweetie.
I made a couple of lunches for you and put them in brown paper bags ... I'm gonna go now.
Where are you gonna go?
I'm gonna go now.
Oh, hello Betty.
Hello Bill.
Oh, hi ...
I'm sorry ...
No, no ... Come on in.
I just thought ... It's beautiful.
Thanks.
Having kind of a tough time.
I think it looks nice.
Well ... Here's what it's s'posed to look like.
Where'd you get this?
Bud brought it to me.
Bud?
Here's my favorite.
Isn't it great how she's resting like that?
She's crying.
What?
She's crying.
No she's not.
Yes she is.
Wait ...
I've got to go ...
It's alright.
It's alright. Let me see.
No ...
What is that?
I don't know.
You can't go out there.
But I really should get home.
But you can't go out there.
Sounds nice ... Once you get used to it.
Yeah. It does.
Like a drum.
Yeah. Or like sprinklers in the summer ...
Bud. Mary Sue ... Breakfast is on the table.
We're in Pleasantville?
Buud ... Mary Sue ... Your breakfast is getting cold.
It can't be possible.
Why no. She's still on her date with Biff ... is something the matter?
No, I ... I was just ... worried about her.
Oh no ... I'm fine.
How 'bout some Marshmallow Rice Squares?
I'm fine.
It's okay. It's alright.
I can't go out there. How can I go out there?
Have you got any make up?
In my handbag.
Does it look okay?
Looks just like it did.
And they won't be able to tell?
No ... They won't be able to tell.
Wait.
What?
Thank you.
Sure.
I made you these for the trip. They're marshmallow rice squares.
Thanks. I thought you weren't gonna ...
I had to say goodbye.
There's a meatloaf sandwich in there too. Don't go skipping dinner just 'cause you're not here anymore.
I won't.
And ... wear this on the trip in case it gets cold.
... It's a pretty short trip.
I'm so proud of you, Bud.
Thanks ... I love you.
I love you too.
I just love you in that sweater MarySue. It's so flattering.
Thanks.
I put blueberries in them just the way you like.
ActuallyI'm not real ... hungry.
Oh nonsense young lady. You're going to start your day with a nice big breakfast.
Mary Sue?
Yeah?
Can I ask you a question?
Sure.
What goes on up at Lover's Lane?
What do you mean?
Well, you hear all these things lately. You knowkids spending so much time up there ... Is it holding hands? That kind of thing?
Yeah ... Thatand ...
What?
It doesn't matter.
No. I want to know.
... Sex.
Ah.
You sure you want to know this?
Yes.
Okay.
Yes ... It's just that ...
What?
Well ... ... Your father would never do anything like that.
There are no gentlemen on the Tribune.
I understand, sir.
Now, now Jeeves.[5] Was that nice? Was that being a gentleman, Jeeves? Was it, Jeeves? Your name is Jeeves, isn't it?
The name is Smythe.
Smythe! Well, well, well! With a Y , huh? Congratulations! What a small world. Brothers under livery. Shake! Now, as a Smith to a Smythe
Mrs. Schuyler is not at home.
I know, I know. I waited outside till she went out. She's a very nice lady, but we don't vibrate well together.
But I
Now the lady said you may go
Well done, sir. Very neat.
That's what I think of it, Bingy!
Smythe, the  er  gentleman is leaving.
Yes, sir.
Did you call, sir?
Smythe, come here. I want to talk to you. Come on, Smythe, talk to me. Smythe, I'm going nuts. I'm going nuts in this house! This big . . . come on, I'm not going to hurt you. Come on, what's the matter with you?
Shhh! Do you hear something?
Yes, sir.
You try it.
Me, sir?
Yeah.
No, that's enough. I just wanted you to get the idea. Now you know. This house is haunted.
No, sir!
Yes. Have you looked in the closets all over . . .?
Yes, sir.
Found no skeletons?
No, sir.
It's haunted just the same.
Yes, sir.
Smythe, what do you do with yourself  I mean, when you're not carrying those doublestrength  what do you do with yourself?
Well, sir, I putter.
Smythe! I mean  when you're alone and want to amuse yourself, then what?
I just putter.
Hmmm, you just putter. Do you have to have a putter to putter?
Oh no, sir. I putter with me hands.
Well, isn't that nice? You just go right ahead and putter with your hands. That's all right. How do you do it?
Well sir, I'll show you.
That's puttering, sir.
No! Well, well, well! That's all right, if you like it. Can anybody do that?
Oh no, sir. Some people are natural putterers. Others can never master it.
Oh my. You mean, some people are born and never will become putterers?
Yes sir.
Oh my, wouldn't that be tragic? To know that you could never be a putterer.
Yes sir.
How about me? Do you think if I concentrated and put my whole soul into it, that some day I might be a putterer?
You sir? Uhuh. You could never be a putterer. Not a good putterer, sir.
Well, if I couldn't be a good putterer, I wouldn't want to putter. But why? What makes you think I couldn't be a good putterer?
Well sir, to be a putterer, one's mind must be at ease. A person with a problem could never be a putterer. For instance, sir, a fish can putter in water but not on land because he'd be out of place. An eagle can putter around a rugged mountaintop but not in a cage, because he'd be restless and unhappy. Now sir, if you will pardon me, with all due respect, sir, as a Smythe to a Smith, you are an eagle in a cage.
A bird in a gilded cage?
Yes.
That's all I wanted to know!
Smythe, I'll get this. I'm expecting some friends.
Very good, sir.
It isn't done, gentlemen! It isn't done, I say! It isn't done!
Well, Gallagher, you certainly took no chances, did you?
Dexter Grayson, you told me it was only ten thousandand you didn't even get those letters from that Jezebel!
Oh, so you did give her ten thousand dollars, eh? and there are letters...
As a matter of fact, I was just trying to decide the color of Anne's eyes. I can't tell whether they're blue, or whether they're violet. What would you say, Mrs. Schuyler?
Why
Indeed? Perhaps he will do me a great favor.
With pleasure, Madame!
Get out of here.
Nobody seems to want to do anything Why not ask me? Perhaps I can offer a suggestion. Do what about what?
About what? Your marriage to Anne!
Oh, my marriage to Anne. Now Mrs. Schuyler, we don't want you to go to any trouble about that. We just want the usual blessings, that's all.
Stop calling me Mother!
All right, Grandma
This man's impossible! I can't talk to him. Grayson, let's go where we can talk  hic! See what you've done to me!?
Good morning, everybody Well, maybe it isn't a good morning, huh? Anne, did you ever get the feeling that there was someone else in the room with you?
Have you seen this?
Yes  the worm!
I beg your pardon?
He's a worm  and I'm gonna step on him!
To engage in a brawl! A cheap, common brawl, in my own home! "I wear the pants!" The pants ! Not even the trousers!
And you struck him right here in our house?
Yes, I'm sorry, I struck him right here in your house. And I'll strike anybody in anybody's house that calls me a Cinderella Man.
That's the fourteenth crack you've made to me. I'm keeping count. When you get to twenty, I'm gonna sock you right on the nose. As a matter of fact, I ought to sock you right now.
Anne Schuyler, are you going to sit there and watch this man insult us? Haven't you any decency left?
What's going on here? Who is this woman?
Joan of Arc! What's it to you?
Heavens! The man's insane!
Sure I'm insane, but I've got some good news for you. This magnolia is leaving your sweet smelling vanilla joint. This bird in a cage is gonna button his own pants from now on. And that is what is known as telling the mother inlaw.
What is it, Smythe?
Pardon me, madam  but what am I to say to the newspapermen?
Oh, Smythe, some bicarbonate of soda, quick  double strength. I know those news mongrels[3] will upset me.
I've anticipated it, madame. The bicarbonate is ready.
Some bicarbonate  quick!
Double strength!
Doublestrength!
"Cinderella Man Grows Hair On Chest!"
Pardon me, madam. They phoned through from the Mayor's committee to remind you it's past the hour for the reception.
Are the cars ready?
They've been ready for the last half hour.
Smythe, you've been drinking.
I have. Doublestrength!
Fine, but kinda thirsty.
Come right in  I'll get you a drink.
Okay  you remember Joe
Sure.
I sort of invited him along to bend an elbow. You don't mind, do you?
It's all right. Bring him in.
Come in, Joe. It's all right.
Hello, Joe.
I'm sorry nobody could come.
The rest of the gang had to get out the morning edition  but they'll be down later.
Now Hank, are you sure they're coming? It will be lonesome without them. Smythe, take this crowd in there and give them a drink. And find out what the boys in the back room want!
Nice set of Conrads you have out there, Mrs. Schuyler. I was just glancing through this one. What's Michael tearing the paper about?
Just a habit. Mr. Schuyler is a bit put out by all the rumors going around.
Rumors? Rumors? Since when is a breachofpromise case a rumor?
No breachofpromise case has been filed. The matter has been settled out of court.
Oh I see, but Gloria doesn't seem to be satisfied with the twenty thousand dollars.
Well, well. That takes it out of the rumor class, doesn't it?
We admit nothing. However, I have a little statement all prepared.
A statement? Good.
I have it here.
Good.
The man from the Tribune seemed perfectly satisfied.
Who, Bingy? Yeah, Bingy would. He never saw fifty dollars before. You could have bought him for six bits. Funny thing about Bingy. The more he gets  the more he prints. He looks stupid, doesn't he? But oh how smart he gets when he bends over a typewriter.
I think you'd better go.
Go?! Wait a minute  that's a great story! Newspaper reporter was forcibly ejected from Schuyler Mansion, and
I've tried to stop the evening papers, but it's useless.
You quit trying to stop anybody
Well, at best you might deny it.
Why deny it? The more you deny, the more they print. Let them alone! The thing to do is to sit still and keep our traps shut.
Traps shut!
Certainly! I'll take care of this guy Bingy myself, personally. Now what are you crying about?
Hello, Smith.
Holy jumping swordfish!
I suppose you know why I came?
No, I have no idea  unless some of the silverware is missing.
Now don't be absurd, Smith May I come in?
Surely, come right in.
Thanks. May I sit down?
Surely, sit down. If I had known you were coming, I would have thrown you up a waffle.
I don't eat waffles.
You don't.
Anne asked me to come and see you about the divorce.
She did?
She wants me to arrange the financial settlement.
Listen Grayson, I've got 106 bucks and 75 cents in the bank. Now Anne can have any part of that she wants, but she'd better hurry because I'm spending it awfully fast.
You don't seem to understand. Anne doesn't expect anything from you.
Wait a minute. Do I get from you that she wants to pay me alimony?
That's putting it crudely, but
Remember what I told you about that twentieth crack? All right, you've just made it. Before you go unconscious I want you to get this through your nut.
I beg your pardon.
Unconscious. You know, when you don't know anything. Your natural state. There are some people  you can't buy their selfrespect for a bucket of shekels  well, I happen to be one of those guys.
We just thought that
Don't think. Let me do all the thinking. Now you go back to that Schuyler outfit and tell them that I didn't marry that dame for her dough and I don't want any of her dough now. I was too poor to buy her a wedding present when we got married, so I'm giving her a divorce for a wedding present. Now, stand up!
Yes.
And now for that twentieth crack
Stew, your hands are shaking. You've been drinking again.
Come on, come on. Here they come, Gallagher! Here they come!
The boss is getting hoarse.
There's the third one. If I don't get the last one, there's a certain sob sister I know that's going to get a kick right in the . . . oh! Whoops, almost had that.
You're sure going to be poison to that Junior Leaguer[4] from now on!
I hope not . . . I've got to call on her this morning!
You what?
Sure, I must drop in on the mad wench. Her wounds need soothing.
For heaven's sake, Stew, are you completely bats? What for? I thought the story was cold. You can't go back there.
Sure, the story is cold, but I'm not. I'm sizzling  look! Psst!
And with it came love! Oh Gallagher, you've got to meet her. She's it
and that
and those and them.
Well, I've seen her pictures, and I don't think she's so hot.
Oh, you don't appreciate it. Her pictures don't do her justice. Why, Gallagher, she's queenly  she is queenly  and I know queens! And oh, has she got herself a nose  and I know noses too. That little snozzle of hers is the berries, I tell you. And is she cute when she throws that little snozzle to the high heavens!
Of course I haven't got a nose.
Sure, sure. You've got a nose, Gallagher. You've got a nose. But there's different women, Gallagher. You know, like brewery horses and thoroughbreds.
On now, Stew, don't be too hard on her. I wouldn't call her a brewery horse.
Gallagher! She's the real McCoy!
And the rest of us are truck horses?
There you go, talking like a woman!
Well!
Well, you're my pal, aren't you? Then don't turn female on me.
Well, well, well! Gallagher, old pal! There you are. What did you run away for?
I didn't run away.
Sure, you ran away. Aren't you going to congratulate a guy?
Sure. I wish you all the luck in the world, pal.
Thanks, thanks.
I hope you'll be very happy.
Oh sure, we'll be happy. What's the matter with your eyes?
It's the smoke.
Joe! A little snifter. Say, wasn't I a lucky guy to fall into a girl like that, huh? Look at that! I don't know how I rate that, Gallagher. Gosh, there's a swell girl. I want you to meet her.
Who me? She wouldn't want to meet me. I'm just an old load of hay.
Ah! Thank you, Joe. Tell you what  we'll have one of those parties down at your house  one of those spaghetti parties, you know. Gee, we haven't had one of those in a long time, have we Gallagher?
Not since you broke into society.
Remember the time we had a spaghetti party, and while I was serving the spaghetti I dropped it on the floor, and while those mugs weren't looking, I picked it up and served it to them anyway! Remember that? Yes, Anne would love that.
Do you think your wife would walk up three flights of stairs just to eat out of paper plates?
Who  Anne? Sure, Anne would love that.
Remember, she's a Schuyler.
Now get this, Gallagher  Smith. That's the name.
My error.
Well, if she doesn't want to come, I'll come down alone.
Oh no, you won't, Mr. Smith. You're a married man now. Mother always warned me never to run around with married men.
Say, what kind of a pal are you? You're not going to leave me flat?
Oh, I'll call you up some time. And if your social duties permit  why 
Cut that out. Just because I'm married  there's no reason for that.
Don't pay attention to him, Stew. He doesn't know what he's talking about.
Pay attention? I'm not paying any attention to him. You think that guy could get me upset? Hah! Not that mug. He's a tough mug  hard, cynical. He doesn't know the fine things in life  that guy. A bird in a gilded cage, huh? It's getting so a guy can't step out without being called a magnolia. Stew Smith, a magnolia! Not me. Say, I'm not going to hang around and be a speakeasy rat all my life! I'll tell you that. Not me, not me. I'm going to step out and mean something in this world. You watch me. Say, am I a lucky guy to be near Anne Schuyler? I've been hit with a carload of horseshoes, and believe me I know it. Lucky, I'll say I'm lucky! Don't you think I'm lucky, Gallagher?
Sure  I think so, Stew.
I knew you would, pal. A bird in a gilded cage, eh?
How is her family going to feel about it?
Her family? Oh, they'll be all right. I'll bring them around. Gilded cage?! Besides, I'm not marrying her family. Stew Smith in a gilded cage! Stew Smith? Ha! That mug. What does he know?
Mr. Smith, I've read some of your plays and I'd like an autograph.
Well, well! If it isn't my old friend! Turn around, gal! Let's get a look at you.
There you are!
Well, daughter of the slums  how did you get out of the ghetto?
I'm pinchhitting for our society editor tonight. I wanted to see some life in the raw.
Aw, you wanted to see some life in the raw, huh? Well gal, I'm afraid we ain't got no raw life up here.
Well, I'll have to look someplace else.
No, no! Maybe we could interest you in some well done butterflies, or perhaps some slightly fried pansies, or better still, some stuffed shirts. And guaranteed every one of them will give you a good stiff pain in the neck.
Say, who's been tying your ties lately? It looks rotten.
Gee Gallagher, do you look good! What are you doing to yourself?
Nothing.
What did you do to that hair? And where did you get that dress?
I dyed one and washed the other.
Oh, you dyed one and washed the other. Well! You certainly look good.
Don't turn around now  but there's a very beautiful girl up there who seems to be staring at us.
Staring at us?
My mistake  she's glaring.
Must be my wife.
They all consider me just as one of the boys.
Right!
I'm sorry, Gallagher  really, I am sorry.
Oh, that's all right, Stew. Forget it. As far as she's concerned, I'm just part of the hired help.
No, no. Strange, I've never seen Anne act that way before. It's funny I never thought to tell her you were a girl, isn't it?
Yes.
Well, Gallagher! Glad to see you.
Hello, Stew.
Hello, Hank. How are you?
I'm sorry, Stew. I asked Hank, and Hank did the rest.
I see. Hank brought them all. That's all right. We'll give them a drink and throw 'em out. How's that?
Okay.
Smythe! Give them one drink and throw 'em out!
You know what I should do with you? I should sock you right in that funny little nose.
Yes  and I'd love it.
How far have you gotten?
Well, I've just been able to get off that Norway coast  so far.
Well, you're not getting your play done, but you're certainly covering a lot of territory.
Haven't I covered some territory? It feels like I've been on a Cook's Tour[18] some place.
Stewart, have you ever been to Old Madrid?
Been where?
To Old Madrid.
Never even been to New Madrid.
Then how do you expect to write about it?
Oh  draw on my imagination, I suppose.
Did Conrad draw on his imagination?
Did who?
Conrad.
What do you know about Conrad?
I don't know a thing about him, but isn't he the one you're always yelling about?
Isn't he the one that always writes about things  only the things he knows about?
Right.
Didn't he go to sea before he wrote about it?
Right.
Then why don't you write about something you know? Write about yourself and Anne. The poor boy who marries a rich girl  now there's a swell theme.
Gee, that's an idea, Gallagher. That's an idea there. I wonder now...
Oh, sure. She'd make a beautiful heroine...
And there's her mother  and what a character that old dame would make with her doublestrength  and that lawyer friend of theirs  he'd make a great villain  and there's you!
What could I be?
You could be something. I've got an idea, Gallagher. Let's get this set. That's a great idea for a play. Pal, get me a cigarette, will you?
Here you are.
All right, thanks. Now, let's see. How will I start? Hey pal, how would you start?
Now Gallagher, if we could only get a great scene  a tremendously emotional scene  something that would just wring the hearts out of the public  to bring the curtain down in the second act  that would be okay. Couldn't dig one out of your hat some place, could you?
Nope  afraid I'm all out of tricks tonight.
Now, we've got it right up to where the boy's wearing his white spats and going to teas and the frau enters  how's that?
Very good.
I wouldn't worry too much about it, Stew. She'll see it your way.
Huh? Oh, I'm not worrying about her  I'm worrying about that second act curtain, that's all.
Hey, Gallagher!
Yeah?
How about my breakfast? How do you expect me to ring a curtain down on an empty stomach?
It'll be ready in a minute.
Never mind that. If you can't get my breakfast ready  and can't get here on time in the morning  then you can go get yourself another job.
Sorry, boss
Don't be sorry. Just get the breakfast, that's all.
Who was that?
Grayson  Anne's lawyer.
What did he want?
Gallagher, that guy just dropped by to give us a great opening for the third act.
It's a swell idea, Gallagher. How's this? The wife's family lawyer comes to see the kid, see  to talk over the divorce. Then this guy insults the poor but honest boy by offering him alimony  so the kid gets sore, socks the lawyer in the nose and throws him out. How's that for the beginning of the third act, huh?
Well, from now on the play will be easy. All you have to do is bring the wife back, have her say she's sorry, and then your play's over.
What other girl?
The little O'Brien girl, of course  the one you suggested in the story.
But that's ridiculous! You can't make a sudden change like that.
Gallagher, what are you going to do  tell me how to write a play?
No.
There's nothing sudden about that He's always loved the girl, but he was such a sap he didn't have sense enough to tell her. Well, that's all right  we can fix that. He will go to the little O'Brien girl, and  here, I'll show you.
Yes.
I'm Miss Wilson  Mrs. Schuyler's social secretary.
I was sent from the Post in place of our social editor.
Yes, of course. Miss Ramsey telephoned me. Well, what would you like to have?
Why, a list of the guests. That's the usual thing, isn't it?
Yes, of course. I'll get it for you
That's a lovely dress.
Thank you. Where is Mr. Smith?
Mr. Smith? Oh, you mean Ann Schuyler's husband?
Yes.
He's probably very tired. You see, he's had to meet all these people personally tonight.
I bet.
You newspaper people have a lot of fun with him, don't you? What is it you call him  the Cinderella Man?
How do you like your bath, sir?
I like my bath all right. How do you like your bath?
Who are you?
I'm your valet, sir. Dawson is the name, sir.
You're my what?
Your valet, sir.
Thank you, thank you, thank you! I'll do that for you some time. That's very sweet. Say listen, what did you say your name was?
Dawson, sir.
Dawson, huh? Was I very drunk last night?
Drunk, sir?
Yes. I must have been pretty much plastered if I hired a valet.
Oh, but you didn't engage me, sir.
Did you take anything out of those pants?
Oh no, sir!
What are you doing fooling around in here?
Miss Schuyler  I mean, Mrs. Smith  she engaged me this morning, sir.
Say, you are nice. You're all right. You'd make a good wife.
Thank you, sir.
But not for me! Though I like you well enough. You're a nice fellow. You're all right. But I'm sorry I don't need any valleys today.
Are you trying to tell me that I need someone to help me put on my pants and button them up?
Quite so. Quite.
Now I'm sorry. I appreciate your efforts. But I don't need anybody to help me button my pants  I've been buttoning my pants for thirty years all right, and I can button 'em with one hand as a matter of fact.
Now Mr. Smith, now please
All right, outside!
I beg your pardon, sir?
Outside!
I think I understand, sir. You mean you want me to go?
There you are. You caught on. You see, you're nice and you're smart too. You caught on right away. Outside! Go on! Outside! And don't come back!
That's a canary, sir.
That's a canary! Who brought that in here? Canary, huh? Go on, get that out of here. Get that out of here!
Yes, sir. Very good, sir.
A bird! A bird in a gilded cage! Get that thing out of here!
Yes sir!
Look, I quit!
Yeah?
Yeah.
Yeah?
You're always picking on me. It took me three hours to get those little gadgets in those holes, and you screw it up in a minute. Hey, look!
Aagh! No wonder you're batty. Would it be imposing too much upon you if I asked you to do a little work today? Just to sort of break the monotony?
With me you can always do business.
Do you know what to do in a drawing room?
It isn't a question of knowing what to do, it's knowing how to get in one that counts.
Now listen, we've got a tip that the Schuyler family has finally made a deal with that chorus dame.
Gloria Golden?
Yeah, little Gloria.
The human cash register. Got her hooks into the Schuyler kid, eh?
Right  for the first time this year.
Well  it's only April.
Come on, get going, get going!
Get going where? I can write that yarn without stepping out of the office.
Yeah  and get us into a million dollar libel suit. It wouldn't be the first time. Now, you get over there and get a statement out of the old lady, the sister, or the kid. Any of them  but get it.
All right. Give me a voucher for expenses.
What expenses? All you need is carfare to Long Island. You'd better get a shave and a shine, because you, you're going to have a tough time getting in there as it is.
I know those bluenoses. Their ancestors refused to come over on the Mayflower because they didn't want to rub elbows with the tourists. So they swam over.
Now listen boss, if you're going to kick about that expense account
Do you call yourself a reporter?
It has been alleged  yes
You wouldn't know news if you fell into a mess of it, nose first. So you're the bright lad that's never been scooped!
Not on my own beat, no.
No? Well, where were you when that happened?
I've heard of people being scooped on their own funerals, but this! Holy mackerel! Why, it's news when Anne Schuyler gets her fingernails manicured, but this! She gets married to one of our own reporters and the Tribune beat us to it! Well! What do you guys want? Go on, get back to your desks. Go back to your work. Now don't tell me you were drunk at the time and don't remember! Or is this one of Bingy's snowstorms?
No, no  it's true, all right, only we didn't want to get it in print yet, that's all.
Why not?
Well, you see, I've acquired one of those new motherinlaws, and we were afraid she wouldn't understand the whole idea. So we were going to wait till she went to Europe.
What do I care about your mother inlaw! You're still working for this paper, aren't you! Or are you?
Yes, sir.
Well, it's your business to get news! And here you had a story right in your own lap and you let the Tribune scoop us on it. Making a first class Grade A monkey out of me. If it ever happens again  just don't bother about coming back. That's all.
Gallagher and myself just came over here to do a little work on a story 
Baloney! Joe! Bring me a special!
Well, when are you quitting?
Quitting? I'm not thinking about quitting.
Mr. Schuyler .
Now get this, Conroy. My name is Smith. Always was Smith  and always gonna be Smith.
Is that so?
That's so.
Just a boid in a gilded cage 
A what?
You heard me. A bird in a gilded cage.
Aw, you've been reading a lot of cheap tabloids. Anne and myself are going to move downtown in a nice little flat, we're gonna forget all about this social stuff, and we're gonna be known as Mr. and Mrs. Stew Smith. How do you like that?
And live on your salary, I suppose?
Yeah, live on my salary  that is, until I finish writing my play.
What play?
My play.
The one about the Siberian bloodhound?
Siberian bloodhound? No. That's been all rewritten. It's laid in Araby now.
Araby?
Sure.
Araby, my eye!
Well, I'm sorry to see a good reporter go blooey Let me know when you're quitting.
I'm not quitting!
No?
No!
'For he's only a bird in a gilded cage, a beautiful sight to see' Tweet, tweet  ha, ha
Say, take it easy! Take it easy! Listen, my boy. No use you hanging around here. Just buy the Tribune tonight and read all about it. You can rewrite it for your last edition.
Couldn't make the last edition. It'd take me four hours to translate your story into English.
Oh, is that so?
I'm afraid.
Impossible. Put it on again.
Hey, make up your mind, will you?
What do you want?
Oh, nothing. I just blew over  I wanted to see how the old newshound looked made up for a gentleman.
Would you like to have me turn around for you, Bingy?
Oh boy, I'd love it.
How's that?
Not bad  not good  but not bad. You ought to be able to fool about almost anybody.
Is that so? Well, have you seen enough  or would you like a photograph?
A photograph? What's the matter? Hasn't mama had you done in oils yet? "Just A Gigolo . . . "
Now get this mug. You've got the kind of chin I just love to touch. And if you don't get out of here, I'm going to hang one right on it.
I bring a message from Garcia.
Yeah?
Yeah. The boss sent me over to offer you a job. He wants you to write a daily column on the Tribune.
Yeah  go on.
It's all right. You can write your own ticket. A hundred and fifty bucks a week.
I'll bite. What's the catch?
There's no catch. This is on the up and up. Of course all you have to do is just sign the article  by Anne Schuyler's Husband.
Is there a green elephant standing beside that bwana?
No, it's just little Bingy Baker.
Big Chief Bingy come to white man's tepee to make friends. Big Chief very sorry. To show how sorry  will bend over and let white man kick Big Chief where sun never shines.
Excuse me, Gallagher. I wouldn't miss this one for the world.
Well, Stew, that's all thrashed out. By golly, I'm surely glad to see that you're not really sore. You know our racket  after all, news is news.
Sure, sure. That's all right. That was a great story, Bingy. A great story  wish I'd printed it.
I gave you the breaks, didn't I? That hairy chest story!
You've raised it up to the chin, I see. Go on in the other room and get yourself a drink.
What's the matter? Isn't there a 'bless you' in the crowd?
You're the Tribune man?
Yeah, hello. How are you?
Fine. Have a seat.
Thanks, I will.
This way.
Oh, man!
Fine newspaper the Tribune.
Well, I should say!
I knew your managing editor very well.
Is that so?
Yale '21, I believe.
Huh?
We were classmates.
I got him his job on the paper. I'm a stockholder, you know.
Is that so?
As one Tribune man to another
Yeah!
But right now I'm acting in the capacity of Mrs. Schuyler's attorney.
Oh, that's all right with me. I won't hold it against you. But you see, I'm here to find out about
I know, I know. But there's no truth in the story whatsoever.
Oh yeah?
So, you see how silly that rumor is?
Why, sure. It's a lotta hooey.
That's what I wanted to say, but I couldn't think of it.
Thank you very much.
All right, all right, don't mention it.
Give my regards to your managing editor.
I certainly will.
Hello, there, Meadows![13]
Who is it you wish to see, sir?
I want to see Stew Smith. Oh excuse me  I mean Mr. Smith.
Pardon me, Mr. Smith is engaged. We are having a reception here this evening
Oh, a party! Great, great! Jolly times and merry pranks. That's me. I'm a guy who loves parties. You know
a beautiful pair of shoulders! But listen now, as a favor, will you please make it snappy, Laughing Waters,[14] and tell Stew Smith I gotta see him because if you don't my whole family's going to die.
I'll tell Mr. Smith at once, sir. Have a seat.
Well, I got a seat, but I have no place to put it.
You should have known better than to write, Romeo. I found that out a long time ago.
I should say you had. At the rate you two are going, we'll have to leave the country to save our faces.
Splendid, Mother. Let's hop over to Monte Carlo. It's a great place to save a face.
Oh, shut up!
That's an excellent idea.
Oh, hello Mother!
What is this person doing here?
Why
It's a good thing your father passed away before he saw insanity ravage the family. I can't imagine what made you do such a thing. A reporter! Of all things, a reporter! A barbarian who lets his socks come down!
Mother, I promise you that he won't be a reporter much longer. Once I get him away from that atmosphere and get him away from a man named Gallagher
Sit down!
Good morning, Mother. Didn't I tell you that he'd be marvelous. Everybody thought he was so charming last night.
I was so worried for fear he'd knock over a vase or something. I must have acted like an idiot. What does it say about the reception last night?
Oh, the usual thing. Blah, blah, blah attended the blah, blah reception and wore the same blah, blah things.
Stop it. Anne. You're behaving like the person you're married to.
You don't have anything to complain about, Mother. He was all right last night, wasn't he? I told you not to worry about him.
It was a miracle. The man was ill or something.
Ahahah!
Mother!
Look! Look! The front page!
Why doesn't Dexter show some decency? And you might show some too, Mother. What do you expect a man to do when he's called such names? I'm glad you hit that reporter, Stewart. He deserved it.
All right, all right! It's your funeral, Anne Schuyler!
Don't mind Mother.
I don't mind her if you don't.
I'm sure you're quite willing to be decent about this.
Decent? Why Miss Schuyler, I want to be noble.
You're not going to print this silly thing, are you?
No? Why not?
You know something, lady, if you sold life insurance, I'd go for a policy in sixty seconds.
Oh, thank you, I knew you'd understand.
May I use your telephone?
Certainly. Right over there.
You're all right.
That's a good idea  telephone the police. The number is Spring 3100. Get a couple of cops over and we can have a rubber of bridge.
You may go, Smythe.
What do you want?
Well, I tell you, yesterday when I was here, I had one of your books in my hand, and when I got outside, I realized I still had your book in my hand. So as long as I had your book in my hand, I thought I might as well take it home and read it. This morning, I got up and put your book in my hand, and here's your book in your hand.
That's considerate of you.
Yeah, that was considerate of me. I recommend you read it.
I'm not interested in your literary recommendations.
Well, maybe it's a bit heavy for you. Perhaps if you'd like something lighter  something with a touch of romance
Just listen to this Adorable Babykins Does her miss her Baby? Him sends his booful li'l sweetums a billion oceans full of kisses. Bobo is so lonely!
Just a moment. I don't see how that trash could possibly concern me.
Ah! But you don't know who Bobo is. And you don't know who Babykins is.
I'm not interested. Smythe will open the door.
Where did you get those letters?
I stole them when I was interviewing Babykins about Bobo.
I suppose you're going to print them?
No  give you another guess.
Oh, I don't need another guess. It's quite obvious.
So, it's obvious, huh?
Will you step into the library?
Sure, I'll take a chance.
Will  uh  five thousand be enough?
For what?
For the letters, of course.
I don't know how to thank you. Mother'll be so grateful  she'll probably want to kiss you.
Your mother will want to kiss me? Give me back my letters. That's the breaks I get. It's the mothers that are always grateful to me. Here.
You're a peculiar person. Why the other day I pleaded with you not to send in that story and 
I know but that was news. This is blackmail and I don't like blackmail.
won't even pretend it isn't a very great favor. I wish there was something I could do for you
Well, you could make this table a little  uh  a little less wide. There is something you can do for me, Miss Schuyler.
Really?
Yeah, I haven't figured out the plot yet, but it's laid in a Siberian village.
You're a bit eccentric, aren't you?
Me? No  most ordinary guy in the world, me. Only one thing wrong with me
You don't wear garters!
I'm just beginning to believe that something could be done with you.
Say, you could do anything with me you wanted to. Putty  just putty, that's me. Now getting back to those eyes of yours  would you mind if I kind of got closer so I could see them?
Not if you're going to lose any sleep about it.
Oh, Mother!
It's all right. It's all right, Anne. I can take a hint. A bit subtle, but I get it. It's all right.
Please go. I'll explain to Mother.
Hello, Natalie. Mr. Stewart Smith . . . Miss Montgomery, Mrs. Eames, Mrs. Radcliff, Mr. Radcliff
Howdido.
Why should I? We're happy, aren't we, darling?
Throw me out  because I'm beginning to get goofy ideas, and they concern you, Anne.
None of your ideas can be goofy, Stew, if they concern me.
My name is Smith  well, that you seem to have been able to stand for the last month. I'm white, male and over twentyone. I've never been in jail  that is, not often. And I prefer Scotch to Bourbon. I hate carrots, I hate peas, I like black coffee and I hate garters. I make seventyfive bucks a week and I've got eight hundred and fortyseven bucks in the bank  and  I don't know yet whether your eyes are blue or violet.
That's because you're too far away, Stew.
Now Mother, your attitude is perfectly ridiculous. It's done now. Stewart and I are married.
I'm afraid she's right, Mrs. Schuyler. I'm really very sorry, Mrs. Schuyler, that you feel this way. I was in hopes that you would like me. I'm not the burglar that you think I am. After all, we're married. I think the thing to do is to kiss and make up  Mother.
A little? Sure, I'll be right up. He's all right. I like him.
I'm glad.
What's the matter? Something I et, no doubt. Egg marks the spot
You ought to get some new ties, Stewart.
I don't need any new ties. I've got another tie  I've got another one besides this one. And it's a pip, too. There's only one thing wrong with it. You know what that is? It has a little weakness for gravy, and once in a while it leans a little toward ketchup. Of course that's only in its weaker moments. When you move down to my place, I'll show it to you.
Your place?
Yeah. Oh, it's great. Of course it doesn't compare with this coliseum of yours here, but 'twill serve m'lady, 'twill serve. The architecture has a little feeling of Missouri Gothic  and the furniture sort of leans toward Oklahoma Renaissance  with a tiny touch of Grand Rapids.
Don't you think it's silly of us to think of living there when we have this whole big house
When 'we' . . .? You mean, you'd like to have me live here in your house?
We could have the whole left wing? Wouldn't that be nice! Would that be room enough for us?
Oh darling, of course it would. If it isn't  there are six rooms and two baths  but if that isn't enough, Mother will give us the blue room too, I think.
Oh, Mother will give us the blue room. You haven't a red room, have you? Well, bless her heart. Wouldn't that be nice! My, oh my  six rooms and two baths and a blue room. I guess she would let us have the right wing if we needed it, wouldn't she?
But we don't need it, I'm sure.
I see, we won't need that. Plenty of room, plenty of room.
Look Anne, you're not serious about this, are you?
Of course I am Stewart.
Now let's get this settled
You have the cutest nose I've
Never mind my nose. What kind of a chump do you think I am? You think I'm going to live here in your house  on your dough? What do you think my friends would all say? Don't be silly. I'd get the razzing of my life for that. 'A bird in a gilded cage'  that's what I'd be. Not me. Oh no, not me!
What do you think my friends would say if they found me in a little cheap flat?
It isn't cheap. It's nice.
Listen Stew baby, let's not talk about things like that now
Wait a minute. I'll do anything you ask me, Anne, but I will not live
Oh, I love that nose. It's such a sweet nose.
I've got a present. Shut your eyes. Keep 'em closed. I know you're going to love them.
Little  couldn't be an automobile, could it? Well, well! Ain't that nice!
Do you like them?
Got my initials on them too. They're cute. They're nice little things  what do you do with them?
You wear them of course, silly.
Oh no. No, no. Not me. I haven't worn these things for Years.
I know that.
Besides I'd look foolish. I couldn't look Gallagher in the face.
Darling, I don't care whether you can look Gallagher in the face or not, but you're gonna be a good boy and wear garters.
Honey, I love you. I'll eat spinach for you. I'll go to the dentist twice a year for you. I'll wash behind my ears for you. But I will never wear garters!
Oh, yes you will my dear  oh, yes you will my dear  you'll wear garters and you'll like it too!
Oh, no I won't my dear  oh, no I won't my dear  I'll wash behind my ears, but no I won't my dear!
Oh, yes you will my dear  oh, yes you will my dear  you'll eat spinach but you'll wear garters too!
Oh, you can't carry a tune  you can't carry a tune  all you are good for is to sit and spoon, spoon. Oh no, I won't wear garters
Oh yes you will wear garters
Anne, prepare yourself for the treat of your life. This is Gallagher.
Gallagher!
Sure  my pal on the paper. She's subbing for the society editor tonight.
Oh, yes, of course. How do you do?
Gallagher, this is Mrs. Smith.
You know, Stewart, you failed to mention that Miss Gallagher was a very beautiful young girl.
Gallagher?
Yes. As a matter of fact, you failed to mention that Gallagher was a girl.
Didn't I? That's funny. Isn't it funny?
Yes  isn't it?
No? What do you look upon her as?
Why, down at the office, we always look at Gallagher as  eh  just Gallagher, that's all.
That was kind of a rotten thing to do, Anne. After all, Gallagher is my friend. The least you can do is be courteous to her.
I thought I was very charming, Stewart.
You did? That's a lot of hooey! I'll go and apologize.
Is this true, Stewart? Did you really say it?
Yes, I said it. Sure, I said it. I didn't say it for publication, however.
Stewart! We're all waiting for you. Where's your valet?
I poisoned him.
Stop trying to be funny, and get ready, will you?
I'm not going!
What are you talking about?
I'm talking about  I'm not going out.
What am I going downstairs and tell those people?
Go downstairs, and tell them  anything. Tell them I'm not going. Tell them I'm not home.
Stewart, would you mind telling me why you're not going?
Yes, I'll tell you  for the same reason I've never wanted to go out with those social parasites, those sweetsmelling fashion plates. I don't like them. They bore me. They give me the jitters.
Anne, come here. Listen
Look out for my lipstick, Stewart.
I'll tell you what. Let's you and me sneak out all by ourselves
Are you crazy?
Think of the fun we can have  we'll sneak down the back stairs and get in the valet's Ford. How's that?
Will you stop being silly, Stewart?
I'll tell you what let's do  I'll take you and introduce you to all my gang. Would you like that?
But I don't want to meet your gang.
I don't mean the newspaper fellows that you don't like. Another gang I know  you'd love them. They're writers and musicians and artists  a great crowd of people  people who do great things. People who are worthwhile.
Meaning, my friends aren't worthwhile, I suppose?
Oh, they're all right, Anne. But I
That's exactly what you mean. Heaven knows you've made that clear to me often enough. Well, I'm sick and tired of it. I've given you party after party  I've taken you to some of the best houses in this town  and introduced you to people of importance  and are you grateful? No! You insult them and act like a bore. I'm sick and tired of having to make excuses for you and the things that you've done. Perhaps it's just as well you're not coming tonight. Maybe I can enjoy myself for once without having to worry about you, and what you're going to do.
Oh hello, Anne He types furiously.
Good morning. What does this mean?
Oh, that mob downstairs. I guess I got so interested in the play I forgot all about them.
I see.
Have we got a play, Anne? Oh, have we got a play! Of course most of it is Gallagher's. She did most of it. That brain of hers just snaps like that all the time.
What's the idea, Anne?
The idea is simply this  that I want those people to leave here immediately.
Now wait a minute. Aren't you being a little unreasonable?
Unreasonable! Have you any idea what the place looks like downstairs? Do you expect me to stand here and see this place turned into a cheap barroom?
Now wait, don't get excited, Anne. There's no reason for that. Perhaps the boys have had a little too much to drink. That's all right. I'm sorry. I'll go right down and throw them out. That's no reason for you to take this attitude. After all, I certainly have a right to invite a few of my friends to my house, haven't I?
Your house?
Oooh, I get you All right. All right. I don't blame you. I kinda forgot myself for a moment, there. That's what I call getting me told, isn't it, Anne?
and if it's all the same to you, I'm moving out.
Stewart!
This is something I should have done a long time ago, only I didn't have sense enough to do it. No, I had to stick around here to try and make a success of something that I knew darn well was a failure from the very beginning. But no more. No more! So that's that.
You can't walk out of here like this.
You've done nothing but watch me  watch me!  ever since I've been here. Treated me like a thug, watched me like a hawk, mistrusted me. Every time I leave the house, that Jane goes out and counts the silverware.
That's ridiculous.
Fine! I don't blame her. I know I'm out of my own crowd. I should have had better sense in the beginning. But I'll stay in my own backyard from now on.
You're acting like a child.
All right, I'm a child. Have it any way you want. But I'm going back to my own apartment, where I should have lived in the first place. But no, I got to listen to you and move here. All right. If you want to live with me, Anne, okay. But the sign outside will say "Mr. Stew Smith" and you'll have to be "Mrs. Stew Smith" or there's nothing doing. No more Anne Schuyler's husbandHe has his bag all packed by this time. He snaps it shut viciously, lifts it off the chair, picks up his hat, and notices Mrs. Schuyler staring openmouthed at him. and here's some more news for you. You can take your red room, your green room, your left wing and your right wing, and you know what you can do with them! Come on, Gallagher.
Indeed? How interesting.
Yes  isn't it.
Miss Wilson will give you the guest list and any other details you may need, Miss Gallagher.
Thank you. I'll go and look for her at once. Goodbye, Mrs. Smith.
Goodbye, Miss Gallagher.
Goodbye, Stew
I think I better go, Stew.
I think you should, Miss Gallagher.
Oh, Stew and I went for a long ride. Dexter, is there any finishing school we can send him to?
Yes  Sing Sing.
Yes, it'll be a very interesting experiment.
To make a gentleman out of a tramp?
Exactly.
Now, Anne, you remember how much it cost to get rid of that baseball player?
You don't seem to understand that this one's different. He has brains.
Well, what else do you expect them to call you?
Dexter.
It might be paranoia, but I've never lost my keycard before.
'Paranoia is what separates the secured from the unsecured.'
If this nutcase did take it and has half a brain, he'd use it right away, before we could invalidate it.
Yes, that is what I was thinking.
In fact, would it be safe to say, based on your general knowledge of this character, that he is already in the building?
Yes, he might be.
What in the hell?
Pipe down, brain lady! And you...
Vermin...
Can I help you, Mrs. Argon?
I spoke to Dr. Argon this morning and he remains frustrated over the loss of the original nanobot.
I am aware of Dr. Argon's frustrations.
He believes that the second nanobot should be ready for testing by now.
Under the circumstances, I can't fathom what makes Dr. Argon think we are ready for anything bigger. If C.N.N., or hell, if the E.P.A. knew what was in my basement 
Is that a threat, Dr. Bright?
Look, as I have said and will continue to say, the instability of the assembler waste remains my priority 
While you remain on the staff at Argon Laboratories, your priorities will always be the same as Dr. Argon's priorities. I imagine that is a simple enough equation for a bright girl like you to figure out.
If you don't have any questions, I'll let you get back to doing your job.
Just one question. Since Dr. Argon no longer has feeling below his waist, how is it that you're still able to do your job?
I could have you fired right now.
You won't. That's why you're whispering.
Icky!
Get him, Daniel! Knock his block off!
Okay, Barbie, let's get this over with.
Don't worry, four eyes.
That's impossible.
It's a miracle.
Mrs. Argon? It's Sim.
Mr. Sim? Do you have him? He's alive?
Oh yeah, he's alive. Technically.
And you have him?
We lost him.
You! I remember you!
I'm real touched. Now get your Sunday's on. We're going for a ride.
What? I'm not going anywhere!
Oh yes you are!
I get it. You're the goon fetch boy. The zookeeper Argon calls in when one of his guinea pigs gets loose.
That's right.
Only this ain't no tranquilizer gun. Now let's go!
Forget it, pissboy! You tell Argon he can call my lawyer.
This is wonderfully accommodating of you all. Now I won't have to come looking for you.
You were looking for us?
Yeah, I have something I've been meaning to give you.
Yeah, and what might that be?
An assbeating. Would you like yours first, Mr. Sim?
All the different ways that I could kill you.
Oh yeah?
Maybe you're ready to find out if that hide of yours is bulletproof?
The question is, are you?
Daniel...
What? No kiss? Not even for old times sake?
When did you...?
Been out for six months now.
Really? What have you been doing?
You know, this and that.
Somebody has to.
Same old Daniel.
Oh no. Not by a long shot. I may look like the old Daniel O'Brien, but on the inside, nothing is the same.
Is that so?
Oh yeah. See, Susie, a man doesn't do the hard time and just pick up where he left off. Oh no. The big house does things to a man.
The big house?
The big house.
Jesus, Daniel. It wasn't Ryker's Island. It was work camp for white collar criminals.
A cage by any other name would still smell like sweaty ugly men.
I've been thinking about you a lot all these years, locked up in my cell. I'd tear through every issue of the Midwest Science Journal looking for your latest findings, watching as you slowly worked your polymerization experiments up through single celled organisms to that holiest of holies, the fruit fly. Exciting stuff. I got to tell you, it really kept me going.
I guess I should be flattered.
I remember you said, nanotechnology was going to change the world.
It already is.
I've read they're using it to repair cancer cells.
And for cleaning up oil spills.
Right. You predicted it.
Do you ever wonder what happened to us, Susie?
It was a long time ago, Daniel. We were young, different people, heading in different directions. That's all.
Yeah.
Well, it was good to see you, Daniel, but I have to be going.
Sure. Can I ask you one more thing? You haven't published anything in a while. How come?
Nothing really worthwhile.
That's what I thought.
And what I love about molecular science is the way it revolutionizes how we have to think. It unifies the entire world on a single level. Everything is completely connected. Sometimes I can really feel it, everything around us, just a small part of a whole. It's really wonderful.
Yeah, we'll see.
We'll see? What does that mean?
We'll see how wonderful it is after you spend the next twenty years making Agent Orange.
God, Daniel, I'm not going to make Agent Orange.
You think the chemists that invented Agent Orange twenty years ago were in school saying, 'Boy, I really got some good ideas for a highly toxic incendiary defoliant.' You think Oppenheimer was dreaming about mushroom clouds before the war?
We've had this conversation already, Daniel.
All I'm saying is that the companies that have money for the kind of research you're interested in, have money because that's what they're interested in! Money!
I'm sorry I brought the whole thing up! If you're gonna flip your wig 
I can't help it, Suze. It's this place. You know how I get in these stores. They freak me out. All these tiny boxes, little cans filled with eight syllable God knows what.
You think it's a coincidence that they have all these aisles lined up like this, like a little maze! We're all lab rats running through their maze, pulling lever A or lever B, each designed to create some kind of biochemical dependency. All the while they're everywhere, watching us, twoway mirrors, surveillance cameras, nodding to each other, making little notes.
You're insane.
Am I? Look! Right there! That's exactly what I am talking about.
Daniel, give him the Trix.
Susan, this is the future of America here.
Susie! You gotta help me!
Daniel, what are you doing here?
Please, Susan! I need help! Something is wrong with me!
Sorry, Daniel, I'm a physicist, not a psychiatrist.
No, something is really wrong... look!
They did it to me!
The nanobot.
... just like the mouse.
Mouse? What mouse?
My first organicpolymerization was a lab mouse.
What happened to it?
I don't know.
You don't know?
It escaped from the lab before we could finish the experiment.
But you've polymerized singlecelled bacteria and the fruit flies, I know you have.
Yes.
Then you must have at some point tried to reverse the procedure.
Oh no, no, no! You've got to be able to fix me! Please, Susan, tell me you can make me normal again!
Once the subject was polymerized we were unable to reassemble the original organic structure.
Oh God, please! This can't be happening! I can't be plastic! A plastic man?!
Daniel!
I'm a plastic man! A plastic man!
We don't have time for hysterics.
We don't?
What has happened to you is nothing compared to what is going to happen to Calumet City if we don't hurry.
What are these?
Mostly caffeine diuretics. Help you go to the bathroom.
Why?
The nanobot is still inside you. It's programmed to exit through the urinary tract. We need it as soon as possible, so swallow those.
Pills... you know how I feel about pills.
If you don't want to do it this way, I can remove it surgically.
Why do we need it?
The nanobot is the only thing that can stabilize the waste.
What waste?
To put is simply, the nanobot inside you is a microscopic machine encoded with information like a strand of messenger R.N.A. that is programmed to synthesize your molecules with the polyisoprenes of the assembler fluid, rebuilding your entire organic system on a molecular level.
That was 'simple'?
The nanobot combined your molecules with the plastic molecules in the white assembler fluid, so that on a molecular level you now have more in common with a Good Year tire than a human being.
Got it.
The problem is the byproduct created by the process.
The waste.
The replicators start off like assemblers, but the replicators never stabilize.
What happens?
That was an egg?
Three days ago it was.
What do these replicators do to people?
With enough exposure, the same thing they do to everything else.
So right now there's little replicators spreading throughout Argon's lab?
That's right.
Isn't it already too late then?
I think while we're waiting, we had better run some basic diagnostics on you.
You're the doctor.
Lungs sound fine. You didn't have any preexisting physical conditions, did you? Allergies? Infections?
No, why?
Is something wrong?
No, no, I just feel wired!
Susan!
What? What's wrong?
Look at this!
What about it!
Just look at it!
The polymerization probably synthesized into a kind of methyl cyanoacrylate. So what's wrong?
Oh yeah, real funny. Yukyuk. Let's laugh at everything a man believes in.
I'm sorry, Daniel, but you have to admit it's pretty ironic that you of all people would be the first man ever polymerized. It's got to mean something.
Means? Oh no. We won't know what it means until the end of the story and maybe then it won't seem quite as funny to you, Doctor Frankenstein!
What's that supposed to mean?
Just giving credit where credit is due.
You have no one to blame but yourself.
Blame the victim.
Victim my ass! You stole my security key and used it to break into my lab to do who knows what kind of damage! Maybe this is the end of the story and you finally got what you deserved!
This is what I deserve for trying to protect the world from a madman and his mercenary physicists?
You're not protecting the world, you're obstructing progress!
I don't consider uncontrollable toxic waste progress!
And I'm sure you thought Columbus was going to sail off the edge of the world!
But lo and behold he found another world that progress could annihilate!
Come on, I don't see you living in a cave!
And I don't see you sunbathing at Chernobyl!
Just like old times.
Yeah. Old times.
I want you to know that I really appreciate you helping me.
I'm glad you came to me for help.
I feel very emotional right now. A bit out of control.
Probably the caffeine.
Do you have something to bring me down?
No problem.
Uh oh. I remember that temper.
Daniel, I didn't hear you come down...
What's wrong?
The nanobot... it's not here...
It's still inside me?
How far can you stretch?
I don't know.
I'm going to go out for a while. I want to take the blood samples to a lab that has the equipment I need.
What did you want my hair for?
Something else I want to try.
I could go with you.
I think it would be better for me to go alone. I'm sure Sim is looking for you. Just sit tight. I'll bring you back a pizza.
No cheese.
I was hoping you were over that. Remember to keep drinking fluids.
That's pretty good.
Getting used to it.
What's that?
It's a crime fighting costume, what do you think? It's underwear, so if you lose your clothes you'll still be decent.
That's going to fit me?
Like a glove.
You made this out of my hair?
Sort of. We used a process similar to the vulcanization of rubber and added bulk with a chain of chloroprene elastomers.
Did you go?
On the counter.
Who is he?
The head shrinker at the prison.
Oh no. They're trying to blame you for the accident. That means they must not have been able to control the replicators.
I can't go back to jail. I gotta get out of here.
You're not going back to jail. All we need to do is find the nanobot. Once the meltdown is under control, then we deal with Argon 
I don't believe it. You're here! Oh thank God.
You didn't think I could just leave you?
I didn't know what was going to happen. I was just so worried something was going to happen to you.
What could happen? I'm the plastic man, remember?
Oh no! Argon! We have to stop him before he uses the nanobot! We have to get the nanobot!
Where is it?
Argon's private lab.
Let's go.
Run, Daniel! Get out of here!
I'm not leaving without you, Susan!
You saved my life.
Did you think I could just leave you...?
Susie... I...
You don't have to say anything, Daniel. I'm a scientist. I know what's happening. I recognize the classic symptoms. Dizziness, shortness of breath, sweating palms... I can feel my adrenals secreting, my parasympathetic nervous system quivering, the estradiol coursing through my entire body...
What in the...?
Oh shit, the meltdown. It's spread to the tower.
We've got to get the nanobot.
It's too late. Argon injected it.
You mean he's polymerized, like me?
That means the nanobot is still inside him.
Yes.
What would happen if I threw him into the core?
The same thing I suppose.
Daniel, just forget Argon. Let's get out of here. We'll find another way to stop the waste.
We don't have time to argue, Susan.
You're not going after Argon!
I have to!
Do the words 'hero fantasies' mean anything to you? How about 'infantile dementia'?
God, when we were in that store all I could think about was that one time, when we were in school, and you attacked that little kid who wanted some cereal. Do you remember that?
I remember I was trying to help...
God, what a fight that was.
We were different people then.
Do you suppose that was our problem? We met before our time? I think that happens a lot. People, events, planets all just circling each other waiting for that moment when everything clicks into place.
Things do change.
I guess they do.
Yes?
It's Sim. We're almost there.
Mr. Sim, watch out! O'Brien escaped and could be on his way!
You want to tell me what I'm looking for?
I've only been invited to her house once, but I know there is a basement lab that she uses for private research.
Okay.
What's it smell like?
Smell? Uh, something like methylcyanoacrylate.
Like Crazy Glue?
Yes. That's it. He's got it. Oh God, he's got it!
Sir, please try to hold still.
So, I guess it worked.
He's probably right, sir, the building is probably going to collapse under its own weight.
And if we evacuate, what do you want to do with O'Brien?
Susan!
Wellie well, Dr. Bright. You're just in time.
What? Oh, I'm sorry, Nigel. I was just thinking...
Aaabout...?
This morning. I saw someone I haven't seen in a long time.
A man?
Yeah. I knew him when I was still in school.
What did he want?
I'm not sure. That's the funny thing about him. He's the kind of guy that you never know what he wants or what he might do to get it.
Do you remember about five years ago, that uh... incident at Purnell Labs?
Oh yeah. They were working on molecular assemblers, too, weren't they?
They also tried using viral R.N.A. as the bonding element.
That's right. C.D.C. found out and closed them down...
Yeah, somebody broke in and stole the samples, one of those animal rights groups, right? I remember now, they freed all the monkeys which caused that huge pileup on the Massachusetts Turnpike, right?
Yeah. But it wasn't a group. It was one man.
That's the guy?
What did security say?
They'll in validate the key. Probably nothing.
Well, you got another problem.
The replicators?
Worse. Mrs. Argon wants to talk to you. She's waiting in the lab.
This day just keeps going from bad to worse.
I bet he hasn't read a single report we've written on the waste problem.
I hope you're right. I'd feel a lot worse if he had read them and just didn't care.
What are you going to do?
What I've always done. As long as I'm the only one who can build the nanobot, I'm the only one who can say when it should be tested.
You were never invited to my house.
You're looking for a urine sample.
Of course, sir.
Dr. Argon, I know you want to use the nanobot on yourself, but you mustn't. The situation is critical right now. The replicators are growing exponentially. If we wait much longer it will be too late. You have to use the nanobot to stop the meltdown.
I don't believe this is happening...
Susan, Dr. Argon is giving you an opportunity here.
Opportunity?
There's a guard outside my door! I'm a prisoner, Nigel! Do you understand that?
Dr. Argon would say we are all prisoners.
Argon is a lunatic! I can't believe I was stupid enough to believe I could control him. You heard what he said, Nigel. He doesn't care if all of Calumet City is turned to JellO. How can that not affect you?
Because I am a new man, Susan. I am a man of vision. Your problem, Susan, is that you're always looking down. If you'd just look up you'd see the big picture and in the big picture men of vision do not dwell on what might be lost. They focus on what can be gained.
Is that what Argon told you?
No! Well, not those exact words.
Nigel, can't you see he's using you?
Of course he is, but at least there isn't a security guard outside my door.
You're afraid of him.
Who isn't?
I'm a scientist. I have lived my whole life by the diagnostic application of fact and the fact is, Argon is going to get whatever he wants, so if I were you, I'd give it to him.
You mean the designs for the nanobot? You think after this I'm going to give them to him?
I think that either you're going to give them to him or he's going to make you give them to him.
Make me? How? You think he's going to torture me?
Yeah? So what?
So what? So what? For starters, how about littering is a crime.
Hawhaw! Why don't you run off and find a cop and I'll wait right here.
Why don't you just put this in your pocket so when you see a garbage can you can put it where it belongs.
Why don't you just shove it up your ass! Hawhaw!
What is it with you litterbugs? Is it a territorial thing, marking your turf with your garbage?
You better quit pushing me, pal.
I just want to know what goes on in the mind of a litterbug. What chemical is secreted by your smooth brain that tells you, 'It's okay, just chuck it'?
Look, asshole, I don't got time for this. If you got a problem, you better take care of it yourself.
Oh no, no, no. No can do. You enjoyed a tasty beverage and thus this receptacle becomes your responsibility and I don't care if it's a Styrofoam cup or the Exxon Valdez! You've got to learn to take responsibility!
What are you going to do? Make me throw it out?
I'll do whatever I have to do.
Hey!
You don't want this.
Yeah, I do!
You have no idea what this is doing to your body.
I like Trix!
Here, kid, this is great stuff. Why don't you give it a try?
I want Trix! Mommy!
Okay. Alright. Okeydokey. Now, we need the nanobot. The nanobot that initiated the reaction. Once we have that we can stabilize the meltdown. Simple really. No problem.
The nanobot is gone.
The fact is, that the milk has been spilled and now we need you to tell us how to clean it up.
Cleaned up? It can't be cleaned up! Without the nanobot the waste can't be stabilized! That's what we've been trying to tell you! The only thing we can do is run! Run! Run!
Facts, Dr. Nebbleman. Facts. You've been using cryogenics to control the waste from the mouse experiment, haven't you?
Well, yes. The replicators are not as active at low temperatures.
Then perhaps we can use liquid nitrogen to keep the meltdown under control.
That might work.
Poppy, order the trucks from the Gary plant. And we're going to need a containment crew.
Well, at this time, I mean that is to say, it is difficult to project 
Look, John, nobody wants to find out what happens. That's why you're here. We need your help on this one and that's why that suitcase is here.
She could have given him something to stimulate his kidneys.
Dr. Nebbleman, take care of them.
Where did he go?
The trunk.
They're here! They're here! We have the nanobot.
Excellent. How long until the assembler tank is complete?
Dr. Makeo is working on it now, sir. I estimate at least another six hours.
In the meantime, why don't you find something useful for Dr. Bright to do.
Of course you understand, Dr. Argon, that once the nanobot is inside of you, there is no going back 
Shut up and do it!
Excellent work, Dr. Nebbleman. You have outdone yourself.
Thank you, sir.
It'll be better for us if he simply disappears. The gardener will know what to do.
Wait, wait, can I at least have his body?
Donated to science. Perfect.
Like rotting meat.
You're not rotting meat.
Oh no? Smell this.
Icarus, please, if you want me to give you a bath just say so.
No. I'm getting used to it.
She's working as fast as she can, Icarus. It will be ready soon.
It's ready now, I know it is.
She says it's not.
She's lying. She lost the first one on purpose.
She did not. The mouse ran down the drain.
She let it escape because she wants me to die.
Don't be a child, Icarus. She is just another scientist and like all scientists, she doesn't care about anything outside the world of the laboratory.
Icky! What's happening?
Who cares! We've got to find him! Hurry!
It works, Poppy. It works, it works!
Now, Icky, I don't need you winding yourself up. I need you focused and in control.
But, Poppy, you don't know what this means 
You don't either. We won't know anything until we find that guy and find out if he's alive or what.
Yes, that's true. We have to find him, run tests, determine if the polymerization is stable.
In the meantime, we're going to need someone to deal with that mess in the lab. I don't think we should call Dr. Bright.
Oh no. No. We'll get her assistant. What'shisname? Nebbishman?
Nebbleman.
A containment crew is going to attract a lot of attention.
You're right. Place a call to our friends at the network and to Mr. Joplin at the E.P.A.
Gently, Ott. Gently.
Dr. Nebbleman, I want to know the moment the nanobot arrives. The instant, understand?
Do you think she will give us the designs?
Eventually. These things are always a matter of leverage.
And you think O'Brien is that leverage?
That remains to be seen.
And you still believe he's going to come here?
Based on what we know of him, that would seem inevitable.
Do you think she loves him?
She must feel something for him. After all, she and I did create him.
Poppy, are you in one of your moods again?
No, Icky, this is real.
You know how I feel about you. You know how much I need you. How much I trust you. I would do anything for you.
Why are there two ottomans?
Icarus, please! This is important!
Look at me, Icarus! Look at my body. I've done everything, changed anything you asked me to. 'We will always love most that which we create.' Is that still true?
Yes. Yes, of course it is.
Then you still love me?
Poppy, please, just tell me what you want.
Icarus?
I promise, my dear, I will give the matter some consideration.
Consideration?
If you honestly trust me, then you'll have to trust me.
Can you feel it, Poppy? The presence of the moment? Can you feel the weight of its significance?
Oh yes, Icky. I can feel it.
This is what my entire life has been directed at, this moment, this threshold.
Okay, arms up, lean forward.
It will be an ascension.
I'm so excited, Icarus.
I was wondering if you'd finished considering?
Considering what?
What I asked you earlier?
Poppy, please 
If you loved me like I loved you?
Poppy, this is not the time!
Did you feel that?
Did I? I've been waiting for that for years.
Not that.
I can explain it. Attempted murder wasn't enough for him. He wants to add kidnapping to the charges.
If you'd like, we can go straight to the authorities. I understand they are very interested in talking to you.
... plastic.
Wow, that is one moving story. Take it easy on my heart strings. Now I really feel guilty complaining about you shooting me up with your poison.
Poison? I'm surprised at you. You lack vision, Mr. O'Brien.
You're lacking a few things too: ethics, morals, common decency and, oh yeah, deodorant.
The body is just another part of nature and ever since we gave up trees for central air, there has been nothing sacred about nature. Nature is the enemy, Mr. O'Brien, and science is our greatest weapon against her.
You egomaniacs make me laugh. Nature's going to bury you like she buries everyone else.
I should kill you right now for what you did to me!
Maybe you should, but you can't.
How apropos.
Ain't it.
As you can see I am a new man, just like you.
Oh no. You're not like me. In fact, I'm betting you're the same greedy, remorseless, egomaniacal bad guy you always were.
It remains to be seen who is the good guy and who is the bad guy. History is written by the victor.
The only history I'm gonna write is your obituary!
I know what you're doing.
You mean besides kicking your ass?!
You think you can use me to stop the meltdown.
Please, O'Brien, don't do this to me! I'll give you anything you want!
Yeah, I'm going to finish what you started 
You can't do this! You owe me, O'Brien. I made you plastic! I made you!
That's right. And making me was the biggest mistake you ever made!
Wheelchair accessible.
Dr. Argon, I demand an explanation.
Not anymore, Mr. O'Brien. The nanobot has changed that.
If you think I would ever give you the nanobot after this, you are deluding yourself.
You don't have to give it to us because Dr. Nebbleman can just cut it out of him.
Mr. Sim I want you to return to Dr. Bright's. I believe she is hiding something of ours there.
No.
Dr. Bright, I don't have to do anything.
But in another twentyfour hours the core meltdown will be beyond the stabilization period. There will be no way to stop it.
To be brutally honest with you, Susan, as long as the nanobot does to me what it did to that idiot O'Brien, I don't give a rat's ass about what happens after that.
You can't mean that.
Come with me, Susan. I want to show you something.
Something to drink, Dr. Bright?
No, thank you.
You'll forgive me but all the excitement has left me extremely parched. Poppy?
We will always love most that which we create. Don't you agree, Susan?
Does that mean Oppenheimer loved the atomic bomb?
I brought you up here, Dr. Bright, because I want you to understand that we are on the path. The only difference is that you are walking with your head down, afraid to look up, to see where the path is going.
I suppose you are going to tell me where it is going.
I ask you what is the purpose of science? What is the point of all our relentless exploration, investigation and experimentation? It is to understand a single physical phenomenon, or to understand them all? To cure one disease, or to cure every disease? If science is simply a means, what then is the end?
Pollution?
Do you know what I see? I see man making his own clouds. I see man coloring his own sky, and like this garden it is a site that makes my heart sing.
This is our world, Susan, and once you realize that, you will understand that the only place our path can end is on the throne of heaven. Science is the quest for divine perfection.
How do you know we're not heading in the wrong direction?
I look behind us, I look to the past, to a world steeped in rot and decay. I think of the Acropolis in another century reduced to little more than dust. I see the faces of Rushmore eventually losing all distinction, and then I look at this...
I swear to you, Argon, if you don't stop the meltdown that nanobot will be the last one I ever build.
Susan, I sense you are having difficulty understanding the situation you are presently in. I ask that you keep in mind that I am ready to reduce an entire city to gelatin to get what I want.
What are you going to do to him?
Do? Well, I suppose that depends on you.
What did you use?
A light mixture of oxygen, dioxide, and sodium pentothal. He'll sleep, that's all.
How long do you leave him in there?
Until he's done.
Mr. Sim, when you do locate him. Do not scare him off again. Just watch him. I think you can handle that. Right, Mr. Sim?
You got it, Dr. Argon.
Look, I don't mean to rain on everyone's ascension here, but we got a little problem.
Speak.
Dr. Bright has escaped.
Dr. Argon, everything's starting to come apart here. You hired me to take care of these matters of security and I am trying, but elements are making my job impossible.
Have you found Dr. Bright?
No. The captain of the containment crew is closing down the main lab. He says the area has got to be evacuated.
Captain Norrington... I appreciate your fervor, but I am concerned about the effect this subject will have on my daughter.
My apologies, Governor.
He's still breathing.
Where did he come from?
What happened here?
An explosion in the powder magazine. Merchant vessels run heavily armed.
Has my daughter given you an answer yet?
No. She hasn't.
Well, she had a very taxing day... Ghastly weather tonight.
Bleak. Very bleak.
Commodore 
A moment.
But 
Please.
Dammit, man, it appears someone is stealing your ship!
There's no *real* ship as can match the Interceptor.
The Black Pearl is a real ship.
No, it's not.
Yes it is. I've seen it.
You've seen it?
Yes.
You've seen the Black Pearl?
Yes.
You haven't seen it.
Yes, I have.
You've seen a ship with black sails that's crewed by the damned and captained by a man so evil that hell itself spat him back out?
... No.
No.
But I've seen a ship with black sails.
Oh, and no ship that's not crewed by the damned and captained by a man so evil that hell itself spat him back out could possibly have black sails and therefore couldn't possibly be any ship other than the Black Pearl. Is that what you're saying?
... no.
Like I said, there's no real ship as can match  Hey!
What's your business in Port Royal, 'Mr. Smith'?
And no lies!
I think he's telling the truth.
He's not telling the truth.
He may be.
If he were telling truth he wouldn't have told us.
That Jack Sparrow ... he talked about the Black Pearl.
Mentioned it, is more what he did.
Still 
You look familiar ... Have I ever threatened you before?
I've made a point of avoiding familiarity with pirates.
Ah. Then it would be a shame to put a black mark on your record. So if you'll excuse me ...
Do you think this is wise, boy? Crossing blades with a pirate?
You threatened Miss Swann.
Only a little.
Who makes all these?
I do. And I practice with them. At least three hours a day.
You need to find yourself a girl. Or maybe the reason you practice three hours a day is you've found one  but can't get her?
You cheated.
Pirate.
Move away.
No.
Move!
No. I can not just step aside and let you escape.
Are you familiar with that ship? The Black Pearl?
Somewhat.
Where does it make berth?
Surely you've heard the stories? The Black Pearl sails from the dreaded Isla de Mureta ... an island that cannot be found  except by those who already know where it is.
The ship's real enough. So its anchorage must be a real place. Where is it?
Why ask me?
Because you're a pirate.
And you want to turn pirate yourself?
Never. They took Miss Swann.
So it is that you found a girl. Well, if you're intending to brave all and hasten to her rescue and so win fair lady's heart, you'll have to do it alone. I see no profit in it for me.
I can get you out of here.
How? The key's run off.
I helped build these cells. Those are hookandring hinges. The proper application of strength, the door'll lift free. Just calls for the right lever and fulcrum ...
Agreed.
Agreed!
Not without my effects.
We need to go!
Why are brothering with that?
My business, Will. As for your business  one question, or there's no use going. This girl  what does she mean to you? How far are you willing to go to save her?
I'd die for her.
Good.
Come aboard.
I haven't set foot off dry land since I was twelve, when the ship I was on exploded. It's been a sound policy.
No worries there. She's far more likely to rot out from under us.
We're going to steal a ship? That ship?
Commandeer. We're going to commandeer a ship. Nautical term.
It's still against the law.
So's breaking a man out of jail. Face it, Will: you may say you'll never be a pirate, but you're off to a riproaring start. My advice  smile and enjoy it.
This is either crazy, or brilliant.
Remarkable how often those two traits coincide.
Everybody stay calm. We're taking over the ship!
Aye! Avast!
For a man whose made an industry of avoiding boats, you're a quick study.
I worked passage from England as a cabin boy. After my mother passed, I came out here ... looking for my father.
Is that so?
My father. William Turner?
I knew him. Probably one of the few he knew him as William Turner. Most everyone just called him Bill, or 'Bootstrap' Bill.
'Bootstrap?'
Good man. Good pirate. And clever  I never met anyone with as clever a mind and hands as him. When you were puzzling out that cell door, it was like seeing his twin.
That's not true.
I swear, you look just like him.
It's not true my father was a pirate.
Figured you wouldn't want to hear it.
He was a merchant marine! He was a respectable man who obeyed the law, and followed the rules
You think your father is the only man who ever lived the Glasgow life, telling folk one thing, and then going off to do another? There's quite a few who come here, hoping to amass enough swag to ease the burdens of respectable life. And they're all 'merchant marines.'
My father did not think of my mother  his family  as a burden.
Sure  because he could always go pirating.
My father  was not  a pirate!
Put it away, Will. It's not worth getting beat again.
You didn't beat me. You ignored the rule of engagement. In a fair fight, I'd kill you.
Then that's not much incentive for me to fight fair, is it?
Tortuga?
Oh  did I forget to mention that?
Just do it quickly.
Don't worry. I've already got a Quartermaster  there!
Shut up, before you lose them all!
These are the only ones worth having. And we're going to need them 
Wait  what about the pistol?
The pistol. When a pirate is marooned, Will, he's given a pistol with a single shot. No good for hunting, or surviving, really. But after three weeks of starvation and thrist  the option of that pistol begins to look good.
But I survived. And I still have that single shot. It's meant for one man. My mutinous first mate
Barbossa.
What's that?
Depends.
On what?
On whether the stories are all true. If they are, that's a waterfall that spills over at high tide, with a short drop to an underground lagoon. If not 
Miss Swann! We're here to rescue you! It's going badly!
This way!
No.
I'll lead them away.
Go to the opposite end of the island, and signal the ship. I'll keep 'em busy.
Are you sure? Jack  this is not something you have to do.
I'm sure. When you've led the kind of life that I have, there are debts that must be paid. Maybe I can balance the scales a little.
Will  don't do anything stupid! Don't say anything stupid 
My name is Will Turner, the son of Bootstrap Bill Turner. His blood runs in my veins. You need my blood. And on my word I will pull this trigger, and sink all the way down to Davy Jones' Locker!
Do you have any idea where you're going?
Jack!
Don't talk. These caves magnify sound. Just follow me.
Are you certain this is the right way?
It's the right way.
Jack!
 and its guns and crew will cut you and your men to pieces the moment you step outside these caves.
Well, you're the worst pirate I've ever heard of. You're a man who can be trusted, who can be counted on, and who can't betray his friends. What kind of pirate is that?
The worst. On the other hand, maybe I'm a man who can't pass up a chance for revenge against the blackhearted bastard who stole my ship and left me to die in the middle of the ocean  twice!  and who knows how to get what he wants. Now that's a great pirate.
Well, well... Jack Sparrow, isn't it?
Captain Jack Sparrow. If you please.
Taking stock: you've got a pistol with only one shot, a compass that doesn't point north ... and no ship. You are without a doubt the worst pirate I have ever heard of.
Ah, but you have heard of me.
But it seems to be enough to condemn him.
Indeed.
We had time to get to know each other.
We are bound for Port Royal, not Isla de Muerta.
Norrington, think about it ... the Black Pearl, its captain and crew ... the last pirate threat in the Caribbean. How can you pass that up?
By remembering that I serve others, not only myself.
I don't like the situation, Mister Sparrow. The island is riddled with caves. I will not put my men at a disadvantage.
Funny, I was thinking along those lines. How about you let me go in alone, and while you're setting up an ambush, I'll trick the pirates out to you.
You would do that?
They left me stranded. Twice. What have you got to lose?
Nothing I wouldn't be please to be rid of.
I knew you'd listen to reason!
That chart I drew up'll get you past the reefs. If you're steersman's good enough, that is.
I'll be at the wheel myself.
I'll slip in, talk them into to come out, and you'll be free to blow holy high heaven the whole lot of them.
This dock is offlimits to civilians.
Sorry, I didn't know.
Some sort of todo up at the fort, eh? You two weren't invited?
No ... somone has to make sure this dock stays offlimits to civilians.
This must be some important boat.
That's a fine goal, I'm sure ... But it seems to me a ship like that   makes this one here just a wee superflous.
Oh, the Dauntless is the power in these waters, true enough  but there's no ship that can match the Interceptor for speed.
That so? I've heard of one, supposed to be fast, neigh uncatchable ... the Black Pearl?
What's your name?
Smith.
None? Very well. You rumbled me. I confess: I intend to commandeer one of these ships, pick up a crew in Tortuga, and go on the account, do a little honest pirating.
I said, no lies.
Dead serious.
You understand this ship cannot be crewed by only two men. You'll never make it out of the bay.
We'll see about that.
Sir, I'll not see any of my men killed or wounded in this foolish enterprise.
Fine by me. We brought you a nice little boat, so you can all get back to shore, safe and sound.
Agreed. You have the momentary advantage, sir. But I will see you smile from the yard arm, sir.
As likely as not. Will, short up the anchor, we've got ourselves a ship!
Raise the sails.
The wind is quarter from astern ... by the time we're underway, we'll never catch them.
We need only to come about, to put them in range of the long nines.
Hands! Come about! Jackets off the cannons! We are to fire on our own ship?
Better to see it at the bottom of the sea than in the hands of a pirate.
All the men in place, sir. Ready to fire.
Wait for my order  what the blazes is that?
Sir! Shall I break out the cannons?
I don't think that will be necessary.
Blast it, I'm already awake!
I know. That was for the smell.
How do we expect to find an island no one can find  with a compass that doesn't work?
Now, lad, just because it don't point north don't mean it don't work. That compass gives bearings to the Isla de Muerta, wherever it may lay.
Really? So ... what's the story on the pistol?
I'll tell lee. Now, Jack Sparrow has an honest streak in him, and that's where the whole problem starts. This was when he was Captain of the Black Pearl 
What? He never told me that.
Ah  he's learned, then. Plays things more close to the vest. See, Jack was a cartographer, back in Old England. Somehow he came by the money to commission the Pearl. Hired himself a crew, promised each man an equal share. So, they're forty days out, and the First Mate says, everything's an equal share, that should mean the location of the island, too. So Jack gave up the bearings. That night, there was a mutiny.
Jack gave hisself up for the sake of his loyal crew. He was marooned on an island, left there to die.
How did he get off the island?
It's a signal. If we resist, it won't just be death. There'll be torture as well.
We're not going to just surrender!
That we are.
We can at least fight  we might be able to kill a few
Will  it'll go worse for us  for Elizabeth, especially  if we fight.
Curse you for breathing, you slack jawed idiot. Mother's love, Jack, you know better than to wake a man when he's sleeping. It's bad luck!
Well, fortunately, I know how to counter it. The man who did the waking buys the man who was sleeping a drink, and the man who was sleeping it drinks it while listening to a proposition.
Aye, that'll about do it.
Make it last, then. Now, what's the nature of this venture of yours?
First  have you found me a crew?
Oh, there's a hard tale, Jack. Most of the decent pirates in town won't sail with you  seem to think you're a jinx.
Now where, I wonder, would they have gotten that idea?
Say again?
I'm going after the Black Pearl. I know where it's going to be, and I'm going to take it.
Jack, it's a fool's errand: You've heard the tales they tell about the Pearl.
Aye, and that's why I know where it's going to be, and that's why I know what Barbossa is up to. All I need is a crew.
A fool's errand.
Not if the fool has something Barbossa wants. Something he needs.
And you've got that, have you?
Kid's a bit of a stick, isn't he?
That he is.
We'd best drop canvas, sir!
She can hold a bit longer.
What's in your head to put you in such a fine mood?
We're catching up!
How did you get off the island?
Ah, that's a dark and unpleasant tale, best left untold.
Miss Swann.
Miss Swann, if you'll be so kind?
You are despicable.
I saved your life; now you've saved mine. We're square.
You?!
Me!
You're in league with Barbossa!
No, I'm  rescuing you.
Come on!
No. This won't work. I'll stay behind, and fight them. You go on.
Has it changed since the last time you were here?
The trees are taller.
Captain Sparrow! We have to get off this island  immediately!
Don't be thinking I'm not already working on it.
What? What's wrong? How will this help us get off the island?
It won't. It won't, and so we won't.
But ... you did it before! Last time 
Last time, I was here a grand total of three days. Last time, the rumrunners who used this island as a cache came by, and I bartered passage off. But from the looks of this, they've been out of business, and so that won't be happening again. We probably have your friend Norrington to thank for that.
So that's it? That's the secret grand adventure of the infamous Jack Sparrow? You spent three days on the beach drinking rum?
Welcome to the Caribbean, love.
You should look at our contretemps this way: we've got shade trees, thank the Lord. We've got some food on the trees, thank the Lord again. And we've got rum, praise the Lord. We can stay alive a month, maybe more. Keep a weather eye open for passing ships, and our chances are fair.
A month? Will doesn't have a month! We've got to do something to help him!
You're right. Here's luck to you, Will Turner.
Don't be thinking I'm happy about this, Elizabeth. But I see no use in wailing and gnashing my teeth over that which I can do nothing about.
Not when you can drink instead, at least.
Drink up me hearties, yo ho ...
What? What was that? Something funny, Miss Swann? Share, please.
Nothing ... it's nothing. Just ... I'm reminded of a song I learned as a child. A song about pirates.
I know a lot of songs about pirates, but none I'd teach a child. Let's hear it.
Oh, no ... it's silly. Back in England we didn't know a thing about pirates, really. They seemed so romantic and daring 
That was before I met one, of course.
Now I must hear this song. An authentic pirate song. Have at it.
Well, perhaps ... with a bit more to drink, I might ...
More to drink!
When I get the Black Pearl back, I'm going to teach it to the whole crew, and we'll sing it all the time!
You'll be positively the most fearsome pirates to sail the Spanish Main.
Jack, it must be so terrible for you, to be trapped here on this island, all over again.
Ah, well ... the company is better than last time. And the scenery has definitely improved.
Mr. Sparrow! I'm not sure I've had enough rum to allow that kind of talk.
We've got a few bottles left ... and we've yet to tap the kegs.
To freedom.
To the Black Pearl.
What are you doing? You've burned our food, the shade  the rum!
Yes, the rum is gone.
Why?
One, because it is a vile drink that turns even the most respectable men into scoundrels. Two 
That signal is over a thousand feet high, which means it can be seen for two hundred leagues in every direction. The entire Royal Navy is out to sea looking for me  do you think there is even a chance they could miss it?
You  you burned up the island, for a onetime chance at being spotted?
Exactly.
You didn't tell Commodore Norrington everything.
Nor did you, I noticed.
He might delay the rescue ... and that would be too late.
Exactly.
These men will be facing an enemy that seemingly cannot be killed.
I have a plan. If it succeeds, then any battle will be decidedly brief ... and onesided.
What's your plan?
I could never forget it, Miss Swann.
Will, how many times must I ask you to call me 'Elizabeth'?
At least once more, Miss Swann. As always.
I'm glad we got here in time.
Truthfully  you were a bit late.
Why would my father send this to me?
To keep it away from them? No pirate would sail to London, for fear of Execution Dock.
If I had known 
 then we never would have met.
I can't believe he would make such a sacrifice for us.
I guess you can never truly know someone else's heart.
There. And don't you dare tell me that wasn't a proper kiss!
Elizabeth, I think it doesn't matter that we are of a different class 
It doesn't!
 but that was not a proper kiss.
What?
Parlay! I invoke the right of parlay! According to the Code of the Brethern, set down by the pirates Morgan and Bartholomew, you must take me to your Captain!
I know the code.
If an adversary demands parlay, you can do them no harm until the parlay is complete.
It would appear, so do you.
You'll be dining with the Captain, and he requests you wear this.
Tell the captain that I am disinclined to acquiesce to his request.
He said you say that! He also said if that be the case, you'll be dining with the crew, and you'll be naked.
Actually, I find it all fascinating.
And that's what concerns me. Elizabeth, we will be landing in Port Royal soon, and beginning our new lives. Wouldn't it be wonderful if we comport ourselves as befits our class and station?
Yes, father.
Elizabeth? Is everything all right? Are you decent?
Yes  yes.
It's  beautiful. May I inquire as to the occasion?
Is an occasion necessary for a father to dote upon his daughter with gifts?
Although ... I did think you could wear it to the ceremony today.
Ceremony?
Captain Norrington's promotion ceremony.
I knew it.
Or, rather, Commodore Norrington ... a fine gentleman, don't you think? He fancies you, you know.
Difficult ... to say.
I'm told that dress is the very latest fashion in London.
Women in London must have learned to not breathe.
Elizabeth, this is hardly appropriate 
About the day we met. Do you remember?
I think it would be rather exciting to meet a pirate.
Think again, Miss Swann. Vile and dissolute creatures, the lot of them. I intend to see to it that any man who sails under a pirate flag, or wears a pirate brand, gets what he deserves: a short drop and a sudden stop.
Man overboard!
Boy overboard!
Fetch a hook  haul him out of there!
Did he speak?
His name is Will Turner  that's all I found out.
Very good.
I apologize if I seem forward  but I must speak my mind. This promotion confirms that I have accomplished the goals I set for myself in my career. But it also casts into sharp relief that which I have not achieved. The thing all men most require: a marriage to a fine woman. You have become a fine woman, Elizabeth.
I can't breathe.
I'm a bit nervous, myself 
Commodore, I must protest. Pirate or not, this man saved my life.
One good deed is not enough to redeem a man of a lifetime of wickedness.
On his heels! Gillette, bring a squad down from the fort! Elizabeth, are you 
Yes, I'm all right, I'm fine! Go capture him.
Elizabeth, I'm relieved you're safe. Clap him in irons. And behind his back this time.
Commodore, you can't do that!
You're speaking up for him again?
He can locate Isla de Muerta  but I doubt he'll be willing to help us from the brig.
No. The pirates have taken Will 
Your father is frantic with worry. Our mission was to rescue you and return home. That is what we shall do. Mr. Turner's fate is regrettable. But so was his decision to engage in piracy.
Commodore, please!
Commodore, I beg you  please do this ... for me. As a wedding gift.
I am to understand that you will accept my marriage proposal on the condition I rescue Mr. Turner?
Not as a condition  a request.
Elizabeth, I hereby withdraw my proposal.
What?
I know where your heart truly lies.
You may seclude yourself in my cabin. I'm afraid we do not have any ladies' clothing aboard.
Then I can wear men's clothing.
That would hardly be proper.
Well, I am not going to stay hidden in some cabin, or I suppose it's going to be heaving bosoms and bare for the remainder of the voyage!
My apologies, miss. As you were saying, before you were so rudely interrupted?
Captain Barbossa ... I have come to negotiate the cessation of hostilities against Port Royal.
There was a lot of long words in there, miss, and we're not but humble pirates. What is it you want?
I want you to leave. And never come back.
I am disinclined to acquiesce to your request. Means 'No.'
Very well.
I'll drop it!
My holds are bursting with swag. That bit of shine matters to me ... Why?
Because it's what you're searching for. You've been searching for it for years. I recognize this ship. I saw it eight years ago, when we made the crossing from England.
Did you, now?
You have a name, missy?
Elizabeth  Turner. I'm a maid in the governor's household.
You've got sand, for a maid.
Thank you, sir.
And how does a maid come to own a trinket such as that? A family heirloom, perhaps?
Of course. I didn't steal it, if that's what you mean.
No, no, nothing like that. Very well. You hand that over, we'll put your town to our rudder and ne'er return.
Can I trust you?
It's you who invoked the parlay! Believe me, Miss, you'd best hand it over, now ... or these be the last friendly words you'll hear!
Maid or not, it fits you.
Dare I ask the fate of it previous owner?
Now, none of that. Please dig in.
Oh, there would be no sense in killing you, Miss Turner.
Then why aren't you eating?
Would that I could.
Do you not know what this is, then?
It's a pirate medallion.
It's a piece of the treasure of Isla de Muerta.
The curse drove you to gather this?
Aye. And not a bit of it any use to us, only hoarded. But it will drive us no longer.
Agreed. You have my word, as a gentleman of fortune 
Will  you can't trust him.
Now?
Now. No, don't kill him.
Looks like your back to having nothing to offer.
And he's got Old Bill's courage. A curse on him, and you!
That's proper, sir, according to the code.
By the powers, you're right! Where's Jack's pistol? Who's got it? Bring it forward!
No reason to fret. It's just a prick of the finger and a few drops of blood.
Turner blood doesn't flow pure in his veins. Best play it safe, and spill it all.
I guess there is a reason to fret.
Do you believe him?
No. But him I believe. He us genuinely angry.
I know whose blood you need, to end the curse.
Say the name, or I slit your throat.
No you won't.
Allow me the humor of listening to your terms.
Simple. I have something you won't more than anything. The way to free you from the curse of the treasure. You have something I want  more than anything.
The Pearl? Oh, that's fine. And just how do you expect this to work?
You give me the Pearl. Then I tell you who you need.
That's your offer? You, sailing away nice and pretty with the Black Pearl, and all I have is a name?
That's right.
I'm supposed to ... trust you?
You see, I've got this honest streak in me  in its own way, a sort of curse. Oh, and there's the fact that you have no choice.
I'll torture it out of you.
You left me on a desert island  what worse can you do?
Blast you! I'll throw you in prison.
Wait as long as you like.
You're setting me up for a double cross, you with the ship, and me with nothing more than your word!
Let's say I tell you the wrong person. What would you do?
Track you down and 
Jack, I don't trust you, and that's a fact. Never trust a smiling man, you can lay to that.
See, that's where we're different. I trust you ... to do what it takes to get what you want.
You're playing this as close to the edge as any man, I'll give you that. We might just have to sign articles, you and I. Jack, you're a pirate at heart, that's certain.
What  you don't have the medallion?
That fool woman took it. You be careful around her, Jack  she's pretty enough, she'll steal your heart  but pure evil inside.
I'll watch my back.
Bosun! Set up Mr. Sparrow's quarters, nice and fine ... in the brig. Meaning no disrespect, of course.
It's pure evil to make a Captain walk the plank of his own ship, twice in one lifetime. No good can come of it.
Now, Jack. That reef is less than a league distant. It's a square deal all around, and you can't hope for better.
Someone needs to cut these bonds, then.
You'd best take a swim, Jack.
The last time you do this, you left me a pistol, with one shot.
So how did you get off that island, anyway?
You can go to your grave not knowing.
That's fair.
No, I really think I do.
All right then.
Why don't I want to do this?
Because, right about now, the H.M.S. Dauntless is lying in wait in the harbor.
You've no hope of surviving Norrington's attack ... that is, if you're mortal.
What're you suggesting?
Like after you've killed ... Every ... Last ... One ... of Norrington's men.
I can't help wondering, Jack, why you're being so helpful and all? Last time you did that, it didn't end well for you.
The situation has changed.
That so?
Aye. See, after you're done with the Royal Navy, you'll have a bit of a problem: the H.M.S. Dauntless. There you'll be, with two lovely ships on your hands, and what to do? Of course you'll decide you deserve the bigger one, and who's to argue? The Dauntless a first rate shipofline, and with it, you can rule the seas. But if you're Captain of the Dauntless, who's left for the Black Pearl?
Now, you can take care of the Dauntless, right?
Men! Are you up for it?
There's ... another exit?
Aye, for us there is.
Just so you know, Jack  I don't think you're that clever. I think you're a fool. A mortal fool.
Remarkable how often those two traits coincide.
So what now, Jack Sparrow? Are we to be two immortals, locked in epic battle until the trumpets of Judgement Day?
Or you could surrender.
What's in your head, boy?
She. Goes. Free.
You've got one shot  and we can't die.
You can't. I can.
Enough of that! Name your terms.
Elizabeth goes free!
We got that part. Anything else?
And Jack. And the crew. Free and unharmed. If you agree ... then ... I will remain with you.
You must swear by the Holy Bible.
Eh? You have my word, then  on the Good Book, I do swear, and the Lord spare my worthless soul.
No! You gave your word!
Quite, boy, or you'll lose your tongue. Those as know me know I wouldn't cross my word, and bring down bad luck on the ship. I agreed to set them free. I didn't when ... nor where.
Hah. Ten years you carried that pistol, and you end up wasting your shot.
He didn't waste it.
You stole my boat.
AnaMaria! Have you seen Gibbs? I need to put together 
My dory. The Jolly Mon. Where is it?
Safe! At Port Royal. With the Royal Navy.
That boat is my livelihood!
You'll get it back. Or one better.
I will.
How does he do that?
They'll be anchored on the lee side. Haul your wind, and keep to the weather of the island 
AnaMaria, trim the mainsail!
Aye, aye, sir!
Mr. Gibbs, organize a cleaning detail  you and Cotton. I want every inch of the Pearl spicand span and shipshape!
Let her go. It's cool.
Louis, the house is beautiful.
And Buckaroo Banzai.
Come onlet's parole 'em.
Gage's gone!
Jesus, the road!
Thank you. Thank you so much.
Yesthanks. I'm Louis Creed.
The movers
YesI know. This path, Louis? Where does it go?
I don't have the slightest idea. When I saw the house, this field was under four feet of snow.
You're not really going over to have a beer with that old guy, are you?
Well, I've got a million questions about the area, and
and you'll end up doing a free consultation on his arthritis or urinary problems and
Did you see his shirt?
My God!
It's beautiful!
I think it's rather extraordinary.
Extraordinarily morbid, maybe.
She's finally asleep.
She was a little overexcited, that's all. Poor kid.
It was that place. That creepy cemetery up in the woods. Whatever disease the kids in this town have got, I don't want Ellie to catch it.
Jesus, Rachel, what's got into you?
Do you think I didn't hear her tonight, crying as if her heart would break? Here she is thinking Church is going to die.
Don't be silly. Church is not going to die.
According to what Mr. Crandall says, the road's a lot more dangerous than the operation. Church will be just the same. Wellalmost the sameand we won't have to worry about him getting turned into catburgers by one of those damn Orinco trucks.
That's enough of that kind of talk!
I just said
I know what you just said. Ellie, clear your place.
You'll be fine, Ellie. Now you can be excused. Go and wash your face.
And Church will be fine.
Well, honey...you know that...
Don't shillyshally, Louis. Give the little girl her promise.
Thank you, Louis.
Oh, you're welcome. Only if some thing should go wrong while he's under the gasit's a oneinathousand shot, but it happensyou explain to her.
Getting there.
I got eggs down here!
Good d
I heard you tonight.
I thought maybe you did. I know you don't approve of the subject being raised
That's not true. The subject scares me. Because of Zelda.
I'm sorry I couldn't go with you to Missy's funeral. And that I blew up when we went to that silly animal graveyard.
That's forgotten.
Not by me, it isn't. I know how badly I acted, how unfair I was. It's just that I..you know.
Yes, I guess I do.
I'm going to try to do better.
You're doing fine.
You better get going, hon.
Oh Louis, I just don't know about this
I told you last nightthis can be the start of patching things up with your folks. If something good doesn't come of Gage's death, I think I'll go crazy.
Louis, are you sure?
I'm sure.
I want to wake up. I want to wake up, that's all. I
The door must not be opened. The barrier must not be crossed. Don't go on, doc. No matter how much you feel you have to. There's more power here than you know.
Please, I want to wake up. Leave me alone. It's not my fault you died; you were as good as dead when they brought you in
The power of this place is old and always restless. Sometimes the dead do more than speak. Remember, doc.
Leave me alone!
Remember.
The door must not be opened. The barrier must not be crossed.
You don't understand
I'll tell you where the ground is sourthe ground in my heart is sour. Let me tell you something else, Vicbaby: Wrong is wrong.
Timmy Baterman. That was wrong.
Don't talk like an asshole even if you are just a bit of underdone potato or a blot of mustard.
Heythey actually found the place!
Movin' in's mighty thirsty work. I usually sit out on my porch of an evening and pour a couple of beers over m'dinner. Come on over and join me, if you want.
Well, maybe I
You need a glass?
Not at all.
Good for you.
God, that's fine.
Ain't it just? The man who invented beer, Louis, that man was having a prime day for himself.
What were you listening to?
Allman Brothers.
What?
The Eat A Peach album. God, they were good before drugs and bad luck caught up with them. Listen to this, Louis.
Nice.
I like rock and roll. No...I guess that's too mild. I love it. Since my ears started to die out on me, it's the only music I can really hear. And since my wife died...I dunno, some times a little rock and roll fills up night. Not always, but sometimes. One more timewelcome to Ludlow. Hope your time here will be a happy one.
The one that goes into the woodssure.
That roadand those Orinco trucks are the two main reasons it's there.
What's at the end of it?
You folks ready to go on?
Sure.
Who owns the woods up ahead? Paper companies?
Nope. The Micmac Indians. What's up ahead is all that's left of their tribal lands.
Not yet...how much further is it?
Aw, you'll be okay. Less than a mile.
I can hardly read these.
Ayuhthey get older as you go toward the middle. Pete LaVasseur's dog is buried there... the Stoppard boys' racing pigeon that Missus Cowley's cat got...and I think that's the cat himself right there, although it's been so many years I can't tell for sure. Missy Ellen! Come over here just a minute!
Nonot right out loud. Their stones speak...or their markers. Even if the marker ain't nothing but a tin can someone wrote on with a Magic Marker, it speaks. Ain't that so, Louis?
I think it is so, Ellie.
My wife is not crazy about cemeteries of any kind. As you may have noticed.
Me neither. But I believe in knowing your enemy.
Did you tell me Rachel took the kids back to Chicago for a few days?
For Ellie's birthday, yes. I didn't go because her old man thinks I'm a shit and the feeling is heartily re ciprocated...they'll be back tomorrow night. Jud, what's this about?
Well, there's a dead cat over here on the edge of my lawn, Louis. I think it might be your daughter's.
Church? Oh. Oh, Jesus.
It's Church.
I'm sorry. At least it don't look like he suffered.
Ellie will, though. She'll suffer plenty.
Loved that cat pretty well, didn't she?
Yes.
Bagged cat. What a mess.
You going to bury him in the Pet Sematary?
Going to tell Ellie?
I don't know.
Seems like you told me about a promise you made
No need to apologize.
Maybe when they call I'll just tell Ellie I haven't seen the damn cat around. You know?
Jud, this is crazy. It's going to be almost dark before we get back.
It's going to be dark before we even get where we're going, Louis. But we can do it...and we're going to.
But
Does she love the cat?
Yes, but
Then come on.
What say, Louis?
Nothing. Do we plant him on the outer circle or start a new one?
We're still not where we're going.
What do you mean?
The place we're going is on the other side of that.
We can't climb over that. We'll break our necks!
No. We won't. I have climbed it a time or two before, and I know all the places to step. Just follow me...move easy...don't look down...and don't stop. If you stop, you'll crash through for sure.
I'm not climbing that.
Give me the cat. I'll take care of it myself.
No, you shouldn't have stopped. But you got away with it. Important thing is are you sure you're all right?
Yes. Where are we going, Jud?
You'll see before long. Let's go.
Micmacs used to call it Little God Swamp.
Is there quicksand?
Ayuh.
There's a lot of funny things down this way, Louis.
You're telling me.
It's funny, all right.
Just don't stop, Louis. You don't ever want to stop down here in Little God. And you don't ever want to look behind you, whatever you hear.
Almost there, Louis.
You keep saying that.
This time I mean it.
This was their burying ground, Louis.
Whose burying ground?
The Micmac Indians. I brought you here to bury Ellen's cat.
Why? For God's sake, why?
I had my reasons, Louis. We'll talk later. All right?
I guess so...but...
You want to rest a bit before you start?
No, I'm okay. Will I really be able to dig him a grave? The soil looks thin.
Soil's thin, all right. But you'll manage.
What are those for?
Your cairn.
Doesn't look like they last long.
Don't worry about that.
Jud, why am I doing all this?
Because it's right.
But
No buts! Accept what's done, Louis. What we done was right. Another time it might not be, but tonight it was... at least I hope to Christ it was. Now you make your call...but not a word about tonight.
I most generally don't start before noon, but this looks like an exception.
What did we do, Jud?
Why, saved a little girl from being unhappy...that's all. Drink up, Louis!
I tried to tell myself I buried him alive. You knowEdgar Allan Poe meets Felix the Cat. But...
Wouldn't wash?
No. I'm a doctor. I know death when I see it, and Church was dead. He smells horrible and he uses his claws, but he's alive...and I feel like I'm going crazy. It was that place, wasn't it?
Ayuh. It was the ragman told me about the placeStanley Bouchard. Us kids just called him Stanny B. He was half Micmac himself.
Can I have another one?
I guess it wouldn't hurt.
They buried their dead and for a long time their dead stayed buried. Then something happened. Half the tribe died in a season. The rest moved on. They said a Wendigo had soured the ground.
Wendigo?
Spirit of the north country. Not a good spirit. Wendigos are great liars and tricksters, according to the stories. And if one touches you...
You and this old Indian ragman
Stanny B. did for me what I did for you last night, Louis. Only I wasn't alone when Spot came back.
Well, she was a little upset at first, and that's why I thought you ought to hold your peace when you talked to your people last night...you did, didn't you, Louis?
Yes.
Why, then, things should be fine.
A little upset is all she was? Because I'll tell you, Jud, my brains feel a little like a nuclear reactor on the edge of a meltdown.
She got used to the idea. Spot lived another four years. He died peacefully in the night that second time, and I buried him in the Pet Sematary...where his bones still lie.
A man doesn't always know why he does things, Louis. I think I did it because your daughter ain't ready for her favorite pet to die.
What?
Ellie's a little scared of death. And the main reason Ellie's that way is because your wife is a lot scared of death. Now you just go ahead and tell me I'm wrong.
Rachel not feeling well?
Well...a touch of the flu...
Out of the mouths of babes, Louis.
This babe has said enough.
Poor Missy. God, I was sorry to hear. I remember when she was no older'n Ellen there, walking down to the store with her Raggedy Anne doll draggin' behind her in the dust. I don't know why God takes someone like her, who should have a bunch of years still in front of them, and lets an old shit like me just go on and on.
My father used to have a saying, Jud "God sees the truth, but waits."
Ayuh...how is your cat, Louis?
It's Ellie's cat.
Nope. He's your cat now.
Your fatherinlaw packs a wallop, for an old guy. He and his wife gone back to Chicago?
No...squatting out there at the Holiday Inn like a couple of vultures. He really thinks Rachel's going to go back with them. Her and Ellie.
Louis
Jud, I buried my son today and I'm very tired. I wonder if we could just
You're thinking of things best not thought of, Louis.
I'm thinking about going to bed.
but I think the thought has crossed your mind.
Shit! Look at this mess!
Ayuhit's a mess, all right.
I know the Micmacs thought it was a holy place...and then they thought it was a cursed place. That's why they moved on.
Because something called a wendigo soured the ground.
And because the dead walked.
I'll bitewhat's the bottom of the truth, Jud?
Why...that sometimes dead is better. That's all. Sometimes dead is better.
Jud Crandall. I live just across the road.
I'm Rachel. Thanks again for saving the wandering minstrel boy, here.
No harm, no foul. But you want to watch out for that road. Those damn trucks go back and forth all day and most of the night.
Excuse me, Mr. CrandallI've got to change this kid. It's nice to meet you.
Same here. Come over and visit when you get the chance.
How can you call it a good thing? A graveyard for pets killed in the road! Built and maintained by broken hearted children!
Well, but Missus Creed! It ain't quite that way, deah!
Nobut if he drops by, I'll tell him to call you.
Jud, do you remember the name of the student that died on Louis's first day at work? The one that was hit by a car?
Was it Pascow?
Ayuh, I think 'twas. If I see Louis come home before I go to bed, I'll tell him to
Don't bother. I'm coming home.
Yes.
Yaay!
Hurrts! It hurrrrts!
Anyone who can scream that loud isn't ready for intensive care just yet looks like she just skinned her knee.
NoI guess not.
Yayyy!
Have you got a deathwish, Ellen?
Well, I thought it was safe
I want to look around, daddy may I?
For a little while.
And that someone cared enough about that animal to mark the spot.
To remember.
That's what I think. I heard Missy Dandridge tell Mom when Church was fixed he wouldn't cross the road so much.
Well, it's always better to take precautionsbut I'm sure Church will be all right, honey...
In the end he's gonna croak, isn't he?
Lovey...Church might be still alive when you're in a high school...and that's a very long time.
It doesn't seem long to me. It seems short. I think the whole thing about pets dying sssucks!
Good God! Where'd you hear that?
Missy Dandridge. And she says it's a operation!
Yeah, I know...how are things out there in Chicagoland?
Fine...except when Mom was airing Gage's diaper rash, he walked away and got into Grampa's study and pooped in Grampa's favorite chair.
Yes...I guess so. He was sleeping on the front porch when I left.
Cause I had a bad dream about him. I dreamed he got hit by a car and you and Mr. Crandall buried him in the Pet Sematary.
Is he really all right?
Yes.
Because you promised.
I know.
I've noticed it, too. I'll cough up the money, Ellen.
I hate that smell.
She's in bed. She was throwing up. Ever since Mrs. Rogers called and said Missy
That's enough, Ellen.
Ellie? What's wrong?
No more chocolate chip cookies.
Huh?
Missy made the best chocolate chip cookies in the worldeven Mom said so. Now there won't be any more because she's gonna be dead forever!
What's up, sugar?
Daddy, do you think Missy Dandridge went to heaven?
At school Michael McDowell said she was gonna fry in hell. Michael McDowell says all sewersides fry in hell.
Well, I think Michael McDowell is so full of shit he probably squeaks when he walks, my dear.
But don't you dare say that.
I won't...is Missy in heaven, do you think?
I don't know, honey. Different people believe all sorts of different things happen to us when we die. Some believe in heaven or hell. Some think we're born again as little children
Sure, carnation. Like in that movie you rented, Audrey Rose.
Well, it's actually reincarnation, but you get the idea. And some people think we just wink out...like a candle flame when the wind blows hard.
Do you believe that?
I think we go on. I'm not sure what happens after we die, but yeah I have faith in that.
You believe in it.
Oh, faith's a little more than just believing.
I don't get it.
Well, here we are, sitting in my chair. Do you think my chair will be here tomorrow?
Yeah, sure.
Then you have faith in that. But we don't know it will be; after all, some crazed chairburglar might break in while we're away and steal it, right?
I'm not tired!
I'm sure you're not.
Then why do I have to go to bed?
Because your mother and I need the rest, sugar. Now buzz.
Ellie
And I'm going to eat his breakfast cereal, too, even though it tastes like boogers. And...and...
Be good to your mother, darlin'. She needs you.
Come with us, daddy. Please come with us!
I'll be there in three daysfour at the most. I've got to get the electricity shut off and square things with your school so the truant officer ain't after you, and
Do you swear?
I swear.
It's gorgeous!
Am I really gonna have my own room?
Yes, but the rope might be
Yaay!
Honey, Church will be fine.
But what if he dies and has to go to the Pet Sematary?
I want to fly it! Can I fly it now, mommy!
In a minute, hon. Let Gage finish his turn.
Paxcow says it's almost too late!
Ellie...Ellie...what...
Paxcow says it's almost too late! We have to go back! Paxcow says it's almost too late!
Paxcow says Daddy's going to do something really bad. He
Who is this Paxcow? Is he like the boogeyman?
He's a ghost. But he's a good ghost.
There are no ghosts, Ellie. I want you to go to sleep and forget all this nonsense.
Will you at least call and make sure daddy's okay?
Of course I will.
Please hurry.
I will. Come and kiss me.
Who might you be, little Miss?
I'm Ellen Creed and I live at 642 Alden Lane, Dearborn, Michigan. At least, I used to.
And now you live on Route 9 in Ludlow, and your dad's gonna be the new doctor up to the college, I hear, and I think you're going to be just as happy as a clam here, Ellen Creed.
But where are we going, Mr. Crandall?
You'll see soon enough, hon.
Best never to go climbing on old blowdowns like this, Elliesometimes they bite.
Bite?
Ayuh.
Do you know what this place is, Ellie? Oh, I know you know it's a boneyard, but a bone ain't nothing and even a whole pile of 'em don't amount to much. Do you know what a graveyard really is?
Well...I guess not.
It's a place where the dead speak, Missy.
What if you can't read what's written on there anymore?
Well, it still says some animal got laid down here after, don't it?
Yes
They do it to honor the dead, Ellen.
Is that right, dad?
Ellie...God doesn't do things like that. I know you loved y'brother, but
He can if He wants to. He can do anything, just like Inspector Gadget on TV. But I have to keep things ready for him, that's what I think. I've got his picture and I'm going to sit in his chair
Father, I saw a post rider at the house.
Thank you. Did you finish the upper field?
Father?
Sixpounders. Lots of them.
Father, you can't let them take him...
Quiet.
Father... I killed those men...
Don't blame yourself, you did what I told you to do.
I'm glad I killed them... I'm glad...
Not yet, Thomas.
When?
Seventeen.
But it's already been two years and that's two more years. The war could be over by then.
God willing.
Put those away.
But father, they might come this way.
Put them away.
Gray.
Earned.
I was sorry to hear about your son.
I lost another a year ago, Thomas. He was only fifteen.
I've had no sons to lose, nor daughters. I lose the sons of other men.
Francis, tell me about General Cornwallis.
Remember Braddock?
That bad?
Worse.
Proud, priggish and competent. A very bad combination in an adversary.
If Cornwallis receives news that Clinton is coming, he'll simply hold tight and wait. He'll fight a purely defensive battle and he'll win that.
No, he won't. There are two things you need to know about Cornwallis. First, he is a very proud man, He would rather risk defeat than share a victory. If you give him what he thinks is an out, he'll take it.
And what is the second thing?
Reverend.
I heard about your son. I'm sorry.
Thank you.
For what?
For trying to impose some decency on that sort.
Don't depend on my decency. I'm one of that sort.
It's a good measure of a woman that she'll have her honeymoon under the stars.
For richer, for poorer, in sickness and in health, 'til death do they part.
How many came back?
About a hundred and twenty. Less than a third.
Colonel, let us help his soul find it's place with the Almighty and...
He looks as if he's sleeping, doesn't he?
Yes, he does.
How far away?
Four, five miles.
Don't worry.
We could go stay at Aunt Charlotte's farm. She's to the west.
No, there'll be skirmishers on the roads. We're safer here.
Margaret, take William and Susan to the river shed. Hide there. If we're not back by dawn, go up the river to the Richardson's house. They'll take you to your Aunt Charlotte's farm. Nathan, Samuel, and I are going to get Gabriel.
But what about Thomas?
Leave him. Take care of William and Susan.
Lord Cornwallis will be with you presently.
Thank you.
You may, of course, keep your weapons, but I must warn you that...
I'm familiar with appropriate behavior at a military parley.
Yes, quite, but you should know that...
That will be all, Major. I'll wait for Lord Cornwallis.
Yes... you will wait.
Captain Marion, I understood you to be a Patriot.
It's Mister Marion.
I understood him to be a Patriot as well.
Damn it, Francis! How in God's name do you expect to gain independence without going to war?
Harry, Harry, Harry...
A long time ago...
Thirteen years...
That's a damn long time...
You were an Englishman then...
I was an American, I just didn't know it yet...
We don't have to go to war to gain independence...
Balderdash!
There are a thousand avenues, other than war, at our disposal...
Name five hundred.
Royal petition, delegates to court, judicial redress, economic boycott, bribery...
That's five, keep going...
... time, royal succession, regicide, bribery...
You said bribery twice...
Wars are not fought only by childless men. A man must weigh his personal responsibilities against his principles.
That's what I'm doing. I will not fight and because I won't, I will not cast a vote that will send others to fight in my stead.
And your principles?
I'm a parent, I don't have the luxury of principles.
One of yours?
Gabriel.
I recognize him now. Is he as imprudent as his father was at his age?
No, thank the Lord. He's more like his mother.
I'll see to it that he serves under me.
Thank you.
Green Dragoons came to my home, killed my son, Thomas. It was Tarleton himself.
I'm sorry.
I'm sorry I wasn't here for this.
There's nothing you could have done, Gates is a damned fool.
We saw.
I begged him to stay in the cover of the trees but he insisted the only way to break Cornwallis was muzzle tomuzzle. He spent too many years in the British army.
Where is he now?
Last anyone saw, riding hard, northeast, his staff a hundred yards behind, trying to catch up.
Who's in command?
I am, I think.
What are my orders?
We're a breath away from losing this war. In the North, Washington is reeling from Valley Forge, running and hiding from Clinton and twelve thousand Redcoats. Here in the South, Cornwallis has broken our back. He captured over five thousand of our troops when he took Charleston and today he destroyed the only army that stood between him and New York.
So now Cornwallis will head north, link up with Clinton and finish off Washington.
And Patriots will start dying on the gallows instead of the battlefield. Unless we can keep Cornwallis in the South until the French arrive. A treaty was signed at Versailles after our victory at Saratoga. The French are sending a fleet and ten thousand troops.
When?
Fall, six months at the earliest.
Long time.
The bigger problem is where, not when. The French fleet won't sail north of the Chesapeake for fear of early storms.
So you're going to try to keep Cornwallis in the South until then.
Not me, you. I'm going north with every Continental regular I can find to reinforce Washington or he won't last six weeks.
You expect Cornwallis to be held here by militia?
Not held, just slowed down.
They're nothing but farmers and you're asking them to try to keep a tiger in their backyard. They'd be better off letting it move on.
They'd be better off, but the cause wouldn't be.
How many men does Cornwallis have under his command?
Four thousand infantry and around six hundred cavalry... ... including the Green Dragoons under Tarleton.
His wife was killed yesterday. She was with child.
I'm sorry, I didn't know.
Don't touch him.
How many men have we seen die?
Two. Gabriel and Thomas.
They're gone. And there is nothing you or I can do to bring them back. But there is something you can do to help end all this.
It is ended.
No. It's not over yet. Two days ride, Yorktown, Virginia. Washington, the French, Cornwallis and Tarleton. It will end, one way or another. Francis, nothing will replace your sons but helping us will justify their sacrifice.
Goodbye, Francis.
Goodbye, Harry.
And congratulations on the birth of your son.
Thank you. Maybe all of this will buy him some peace.
I hope so.
Your son, what did you name him?
Robert. Robert E. Lee.
An American nation. Colonel Lee, with your permission?
Please.
Those of us who call ourselves Patriots are not seeking to give birth to an American nation, but to protect one that already exists. It was born a hundredandseventy years ago at Jamestown, Virginia and has grown stronger and more mature with every generation reared and with every crop sown and harvested. We are a nation and our rights as citizens of that nation are threatened by a tyrant three thousand miles away.
Thank you. Were I an orator, those are the exact words I would have spoken.
Mister Robinson, I fought with Captain Marion in the French and Indian War, including the Wilderness Campaign. We served as scouts under Washington and I have no doubts about Captain Marion's courage or competence on a battlefield. There's not a man in this room, or anywhere, for that matter, to whom I would more willingly trust my life.
I stand corrected.
Nonetheless, I would like to know, Mister Marion, how... how... how...
He wanted to, Susan, but he couldn't leave his men.
He left us.
I know he did and he's sorry. He'll come back as soon as he can.
There are some letters here from him. Some are just to you.
I don't care. I hate him.
You don't hate him.
Yes, I do. I hate him and I hope he never comes back.
Father, a post rider came from Charleston. You have a letter inside.
Thank you. How's the spotted one's milk?
The New York and Rhode Island assemblies have been dissolved...
The middle colonies?
Rioting both sides of the bay, in Chestertown they burned the Customs House and tarandfeathered the Customs Agent. He died of burns. In Wilmington they killed a Royal Magistrate and two Redcoats.
Anything about the convention in Philadelphia?
Poor Richard says they'll make a Declaration of Independence by July.
What news?
The British army is barricaded in Boston. Harry Lee, is here from Virginia, recruiting for a Continental Army.
Is that why the Assembly was convened?
Yes. He seeks a levy of troops and money.
And the Governor?
He vowed that if the Assembly votes a single shilling to Lee, he'll dissolve the body.
Which would force our delegates in Philadelphia to vote for independence.
Father, I've lost respect for you. I thought you were a man of principle.
When you have children, I hope you'll understand.
When I have children, I hope I don't hide behind them.
Do you intend to enlist without my permission?
Yes.
Have you seen any Redcoats?
Not yet. What happened?
I have to get these dispatches to Hillsboro.
You're in no condition to ride.
I have no choice, I...
Father...
It's already over.
What now, sir?
We put out the word. We'll start along the south side of the Santee...
We'd cover more ground if we split up.
It's safer if we stay together.
Colonel, I didn't request this transfer because you're my father. I requested it because I believe in this cause and this is where I can do the most good.
Oh?
I've been doing this for two years. I'm the best scout in the Continental Army, the best horseman, the best shot, the best scavenger and I know every deer path and swamp trail between here and Charleston.
Is that so?
Yes, sir. My father taught me.
Did your father teach you humility?
He tried. It didn't take.
Alright, Corporal, you take Bennington, Harrisville, Acworth and the farms along Black Swamp. I'll take the north side of the river. We'll meet at Snow's Island.
Yes, sir.
And, Corporal... ... be careful.
Yes... ... father.
Is it?
If you're here only for revenge, you're doing a disservice to him as well as yourself.
How old are you?
You know how old I am.
God help us all when you're forty.
Less than a mile. Fortyone wagons, a company of Redcoat infantry, horses at the rear.
Flanking riders?
I didn't see any.
These four wagons must be his.
And the dogs, too, I'll wager.
Lord Cornwallis is brilliant. His weakness is that he knows it.
Father?
Pride is his weakness.
Gabriel? Are you asleep?
We're low on salt. I should go to Pembroke and get some.
Fourteen dead, eleven wounded, eighteen captured.
I should have killed him when I had the chance?
When was that? In the swamp at the expense of your men? Or when he killed Thomas at the expense of your family?
No...
Or perhaps tomorrow at the expense of our cause.
Stay the course... your mother used to say that to me when I'd get drunk or lose my temper.
She'd say it to me when I picked on Thomas or Nathan.
You learned her lessons better than I.
She got me at a more impressionable age.
She spoke? Susan spoke?
Full sentences. As if she had been speaking all along.
I don't believe it... and I wasn't there for it...
She said... she loves you and misses you but she understands why you can't be there with her.
She said that? Oh, my Lord, she said that?
Father, there's something else I need to talk to you about.
What?
Come with me. I'll tell you when we get there.
Sir, I'd like to request a furlough. Two days?
Granted. Where are you going?
Cheraw Falls.
It's beautiful there. Your mother and I were there once, before you were born.
I know.
Tarleton has a list of our men, most are on it. A regiment of dragoons is going to the homes on the list, burning them, killing whomever resists, women and children, as well.
Where?
Seven homes along the Black River so far...
Don't go in there.
Is it her? Is Anne in there?
She is. Don't go in there.
Father, tell me what happened at Fort Wilderness?
You know what happened.
No, I don't.
Everyone knows. It's what made me a hero. Me, Harry Lee, all of us. I got a medal. Men bought me drinks. They still do sometimes. Everyone knows what happened.
Tell me what everyone doesn't know.
And what do they know?
That the French and Cherokees captured the fort and when you retook it, you took revenge on them for what they did during the occupation.
That's right.
That's not enough. Tell me.
Your mother asked me the same question around the time you were born. I was drunk and I was foolish enough to answer her.
That's why it was four years between you and Thomas. It took me that long to regain her respect.
I'm not my mother. I can't have the respect without the knowing.
We buried them, then we went to track. It was a cold trail and they were moving fast. We went faster. We caught up to them at Kentucky Ford.
Go on.
We took our time with them and gave every one of them worse than they had given at the fort. It was two weeks before they were all dead, all except two. We put the heads on a pallet and had the two we let live take it to the French at Fort Ambercon. The eyes, fingers and tongues we put in a basket and sent that down the Asheulot to the Cherokee. The French stayed east of the Blue Ridge after that and the Cherokee broke their treaty with the French and stayed out of the fight. That seemed to make a difference. The war went another year, things went better... and men bought us drinks.
It was a different time, son. And you're a better man than that.
I see, do as I say, not as I do.
Yes.
If this war is about more than Thomas, it's about more than Anne, as well. Stay the course.
As you did at Fort Wilderness?
My harrier. Join us, Colonel.
Sir.
Colonel Tarleton, you deal with these damned rebels.
Yes, sir.
It seems our Swamp Fox wants to have a formal parley.
Are you going to meet with him?
Most certainly. Arrange it.
If I fail, you fail.
Perhaps.
And if I triumph, you triumph.
Probably.
How can we end this madness?
Difficult, sir. This is, as you pointed out, a civil war.
Civility is a secondary virtue. It is superseded by duty.
I understand, sir.
Do you see that, Colonel?
Unless I'm dreaming, I think I see irregulars at their center.
My boys... my boys... you seem to have been well fed. Thank you for that, Colonel.
My pleasure, sir.
Please forgive me for keeping you waiting.
Apology accepted.
Thank you, Colonel... I'm afraid I don't know your name.
Colonel will do.
As you wish.
Shall we proceed?
Let us. Unless you object, I would like to deem this meeting a formal negotiation and, as such, there are certain customary practices. Perhaps I could explain them to you...
I'm familiar with how a formal negotiation is handled.
Oh?
I served in His Majesty's army in the French and Indian War.
Oh. Very well, then. Would you, as the initiating party, like to begin?
Unless you would like to claim aggrieved status.
You are familiar with how these things are done. In fact, I would like to claim aggrieved status.
Very well, proceed, sir.
First, you have in your possession certain belongings of mine, including clothing, private papers, furniture and personal effects of a nonmilitary nature which I would like to have returned to me.
I will do so as soon as possible.
Thank you.
Please accept my apology for not having done so sooner.
Apology accepted. Now, on the matter of the specific targeting of officers during engagements, this is absolutely unacceptable.
That one is a bit more difficult.
Certainly you must know that in civilized warfare, officers in the field must not be accorded inappropriate levels of hostile attention.
And what are inappropriate levels of hostile attention?
Colonel, imagine the utter chaos that would result from unled armies having at each other. There must be gentlemen in command to lead and, when appropriate, restrain their men.
Restrain them from the targeting of civilians, including women and children?
That is a separate issue.
I consider them linked.
I beg to differ. One is a command decision on your part. The other represents nothing more than the occasional overexuberance of field officers attempting to carry out their duty in difficult circumstances.
As long as your soldiers attack civilians, I will order the shooting of your officers at the outset of every engagement. And my men are excellent marksmen.
Very well, let us move on to...
Prisoner exchange.
Sir?
You have eighteen of my men. I want them back.
I do have eighteen criminals under sentence of death, but I hold no prisonersofwar.
If that's your position, then eighteen of your officers will die. Nineteen, if you hang me with my men.
What officers?
Their names, ranks and posts?
They refused to give me their names. Their ranks are nine lieutenants, five captains, three majors and one fat colonel who called me a cheeky fellow. Their posts? We picked them up hereandthere last night.
You're surrendering.
Yes, sir.
What unit?
First Virginia Regulars under Colonel Hamilton.
Who cared for your wounds?
We did.
With a lace table cloth?
They're from good stock on their mother's side.
Thank you.
You look well, Charlotte.
As do you.
And send us to war alongside Massachusetts.
Our governor is a bigger fool than I thought.
How did this... how did I let this happen?
You couldn't have known.
I should have known... once I would have... I used to be wary... and today I watched my son killed before my eyes... your sister civilized me and I damn myself for having let her...
Thomas is dead but you've done nothing for which you should be ashamed.
I've done nothing and for that I am ashamed.
If you go, I'll care for them as if they were my own.
I'll leave in the morning with Gabriel.
Excuse me?
I said, I'm not my sister.
I know that.
Do you?
Of course, I do.
Very well, then.
Goodbye, Charlotte.
Goodbye.
Two pounds, fourteen ounces.
Lovely.
He shouldn't make light. That Redcoat should not have been killed.
He's not making light.
You don't know him very well, do you?
He's my father.
I know him well enough?
Don't fault him for having grown up on the frontier. It was a harder time and a harder place than you know.
You got salt last week.
Oh, right. Baking powder, we need baking powder.
We've got plenty of baking powder. You went to Pembroke and got five pounds two weeks ago.
You expect to hold Cornwallis with militia?
I expect to try.
Trust you and Harry Lee. Remember that damned overland you two thought up in '62 to hit Fort Louis?
It worked. How many men can you raise?
Not many. Dalton, Scott, they've got their reasons; Rev. Oliver, he believes in the cause; some of the young bucks; a few like me with nothing to lose... What about you? You've got a lot to lose.
I say we drink the wine, shoot the dogs, and use the papers for musket wadding.
His journals, letters, maps, books...
Am I one of that sort?
You're the worst of that sort. You're the sort that gives that sort a bad name.
Well?
I've just been inside the mind of a genius. Lord Cornwallis knows more about war than I could in a dozen lifetimes.
Cheerful news to greet the morn.
His victories at Charleston and Camden were perfect, strategically, tactically, logistically. But he has a weakness.
Personally, I'd prefer stupidity.
Pride will do.
He reminds me of you before you got old and ugly.
No, he takes after his mother...
What do you mean, old and ugly?
You got me beat on both accounts.
The hell I do.
I know who you are, Gabriel Marion. The last time I saw you, I was nine and you put ink in my tea.
I... uh... that wasn't me, it was Samuel... I mean Nathan...
It was you and it turned my teeth black for a month.
Uh... uh... I...
If I'd known you were going to look like this, I never would have put ink in your tea.
You call that a compliment?
It's a start.
Next time we'll bring more blankets.
That would be nice.
Maybe we'll be lucky this winter and have just rain, no snow.
That would be nice, too.
I'm sorry we didn't give you more warning.
It's alright. I'm very happy for you.
Do you think Frances with an "e" is too manly a name for a girl?
No.
Do you think Francis with an "i" is too womanly a name for a boy?
No.
Good.
When?
Late summer.
Congratulations.
Thank you.
It's okay Mom. I'm allright.
You don't look alright.
Yeah... cop hit me...
I saw. I saw that big one hit that police man. Saw 'em drag you off too. They take you to jail?
Yeah.
Lord, never thought I'd live to see my boy in prison.
Mom! It wasn't like that. It was bullsh... They were just harassing us. No charges were filed. It's alright.
You meet those friends of yours in jail too?
Yes... No... Mom it's not like you think. They're alright. There out there trying to do something.
I hear them boys, those Black Panthers, they're communists. They don't even believe in God.
Mom, black folks been praying to God for four hundred years. Maybe it's time we tried something else...
You believe that?
I don't know. I really don't.
You supposed to be a wounded vet, Motherfucka. What you do in 'Nam anyway, shoot gooks or shoot hoops?
All of the above, man... And then some.
My Mom's at that.
Funny you don't look like church folk to me.
Rose, what the hell you doing here?
Just come for the food, man. Ain't quite sure what their bag is but...
This cool the heat off you any?
I don't know. But I'm sure I'll find out. Rose, you did me solid.
Unh... Unh Man... I don't take no money from friends that need help. Fuck no. What do you think I am a bum?
Not at all. I'll catch you later.
Judge... I... I shoulda told you this before but... well... fuck...
What?
It was Sabu killed Cy.
Where is he?.
Ain't no one seen him.
Why didn't you tell me?
Didn't want folks to think I was a snitch. You know?
Rose?
Yeah... Look man, what I gotta say. It's just you, me and the rats, right? Alright... well... Sabu's back.
Motherfuck... well then I got something to do.
No... wait, there's something else, something weird. I hear he's set up down at that warehouse on fifty deuce. He's talking big and living bigger.
God damn it's him. I gotta go.
Judge man. Watch yourself. Sabu's got juice now.
You don't even know it man, but you're a god damn hero.
I saw... but...
But nothing... you do live here don't you?
Yeah, I do.
Well, act like it. Come on.
Don't let the cops provoke you. We're there to watch and take badge numbers...
And who is we?
Shit, we made him get his moms to give permission before he could sign up.
Just a kid.
Yeah, well, cops kick the shit out of kids too.
I thought you said all the Panthers were gonna be here.
What you see is what you got. That's' Bobby Seale.
You're a smart brother... you should dig what Huey and Bobby got to say...
Maybe...
Fuck maybe... be there.
Busted firing pin. You want only the legal stuff right?
Just the legit shit.
Huh?
He had a feeling you'd be coming by.
What? You don't like to see a traitor get hurt? I wonder why that is?
If you got something to say, say it.
Anything happens to Huey it ain't gonna be a finger. I'll...
What's up with you?
Nothing.
You got something on your mind... "brother."
Yeah, "brother" My best friend is stone dead.
Sorry man...
S'alright. I'm sorry too. Shit, I gotta take a leak... Pull over at that gas station.
Fuck is up?!
Mothafucker! You just set Bobby Seale up to be kidnapped. They dragged him off to some bullshit conspiracy trial in Chicago. How much the pigs pay you for this one, Judge?
You better just kill me Tyrone. And when Huey gets out, when Oakland's just wall to wall junkies, you tell him you blew away the only chance we all got. I'm sure he'll be real happy about that.
What are you saying?
The pigs are gonna start flooding us with dope. Huey wants us to stop them.
Bullshit...
Chickenshits? What you bring your buddies with you?
No man No!! Tyrone listen... we got to move man, they got a warehouse...
Shut the fuck up!!
You alright?
Not really. Gimme the keys for the trunk.
Motherfuckers...
Look... You... take her and get the hell out of here. I'll keep 'em busy.
We'll all get out of here together.
Later for that. I'm done either way...
You were. infantry right?
Yeah.
So I guess it's safe to say you know about firepower.
We appreciate your help with this.
So what's the deal?
Freedom... We're just gonna test some of the words in that law book.
Judge... we're doing security for Betty Shabazz's visit next week. I'd like to have someone who knows there way around a pistol there. Someone like you.
I don't know.
You are down for protecting Malcolm's widow aren't you?
Yeah... let me think about it.
Okay man I ain't going to push. But remember the revolution isn't going to wait for anyone. Come on, we'll give you a lift.
No man. Gonna walk.
Welcome brother, have you decided to get down with us?
I'm down.
Yeah... You were a lot of help with those guns. Your soldier shit is bad ass.
I'd hoped I was finished with all that. But...
You know, you're lucky to be back. Most niggers die on the front lines. Seems like that's what they're there for.
Don't I know it. Every brother I knew in 'Nam's dead. My company... a land mine. Twenty of my friends dead in less than a second.
Mind if I ask you something? Why'd you put up with shit like that for someone else's war?
Hey, GI bill pays for school. And shit, if I stuck around here, instead of signing up, I'd probably be in jail, or sitting on the stoop drinking Bitter Dog with Rose, you know?
Yeah I know. You're smart Judge. You ain't no bourgeois nigger like those Paper Panthers across the bay. I need every good man to help us with the security on Betty Shabazz, particularly soldiers. You do solid on that I might have something else for you, something real important.
Whatever you need, I'll be there.
Right on Brother Judge...
What it be Judge. Nobody got hurt, Sister Betty's safe. This was a good day...
They were empty...
You were alright Judge, better than alright. You're what the Party needs. A fighter but also one that's going to school not making the man too nervous.
I don't know about that.
I do. You think you're smart enough to keep playing the game?
What, I don't know how you mean?
See, the thing about Panthers. For all their speed and strength. They are not naturally aggressive. They don't just go out killing, tearing through the jungles murdering. No, the Panther keeps his claws hidden until he is attacked, until he's backed into a corner. Then believe me those claws are fierce.
Huey, you're losing me. What are you talking about?
I'm talking about survival. Yours, mine, all of it. Outside and in. You got to do something for me. Staying alive might depend on it. The pigs are gonna try to infiltrate us and we're gonna let 'em. But their spy's gonna be our spy too. How about it?
Me? You've got a whole lot of other folks signing up. Why me?
You fit the profile, Brother. You look exactly like the kind of nigger they think they can trust...
Aw... uh... it's was just harassment. My driver's license expired.
Chickenshits, they're grabbing at anything.
What's the pig's name?
Brimmer.
You got to keep very cool on this. Icy god damn cool. Cause baby, you just became the strongest weapon we got. Let me guess, he wants you to call him, tell him what we're doing.
Yeah.
And you're gonna do just that. But I'll tell you what to feed the pig. You alright with this?
Yeah... I guess. Any of other Panthers know about this?
Man, this shit's pretty thick.
You got that right. And brother, I got a feeling it's going to get a whole lot thicker.
Listen Judge, Oakland's Panther International Headquarters. We shut the Pig's infiltration down here, they're gonna think twice about running their games on other chapters.
Huey, man who's gonna straighten out the brothers if they get on my ass?
Like the manual says, "Information is...
I don't know man. I don't know. That reminds me. Another little donation from the police.
If the pigs only knew they were subsidizing The Panthers...
Yeah well, they want a lot for their money. They want a felony, preferably with "violent intent." We've got to give them something. They'll kill me if I don't. And the Panthers are going to kill me if I do. I'm scared.
Me too. That's why I fight so hard.
That's right. We'd be proud to provide as escort for Malcolm's widow. How many men you got?
Get the brothers a beer. Me too while you're at it. Men? Well we can spare six for security...
No thank you sister. Six?!! That seems a little light. Cops are watching Betty, watching her hard. We need at least twenty men. And that's twenty armed Panthers dig? You do have guns don't you?
I assure you that we as the revolutionary vanguard are as serious about this as you are. We'll be prepared.
We put our lives on the line today. Malcolm X's widow was on the line today. And your guns weren't even loaded.
A gun's a gun man. It don't need to be loaded.
Tell that to the pigs. Better yet tell that to Malcolm.
Wait a second there brother...
No you wait a second. You and your "Panthers" got three choices. One you join with us and follow our rules. Two you change your name. Or three you face annihilation.
That's right brother... listen and learn.
The white power structure wants us to act like savages. But we're a different kind of animal altogether. We're Panthers. And The Black Panther Party for Self Defense is very painfully aware that America has historically reserved its most barbaric treatment for nonwhite people since the beginning of the country. So we need to organize, we keep our shit correct! And effect revolution. We revolve the power into the hands of the people. Where it belongs. Power to the people baby...
Shit, nothing but Paper Panthers.
Yeah... but it seems they're bringing Malcolm's widow Betty Shabazz to town, to speak at a rally, do an interview for Ramparts. And they want us to help with security.
We'll get them. Right now we got to worry about being armed and ready to protect Betty Shabazz. Those phonies sure as hell can't. We need guns.
We need money first...
Yeah... Bobby you gotta...
This here's a "Panther Patrol." We see a brother getting busted. We check it out, make sure the pig don't go beating on the man. Brother gets taken downtown, we post bail, hook 'em up with a lawyer.
We're like policing the police.
You're a little old to be a school boy aren't you brother. Cool it! You're probably not the only one they've gone after. Stall a little so they believe you're for real. Make them trust you. Hey Tyrone, you figure feeding our children is gonna make The Man jumpy?
Black people getting uppity, feeding their children breakfast, taking their destiny into their own hands. What's this world coming to?
C'mon let's...
No! Just harassment. Can't let it stop this. Brother we got momentum!
Alright, I'll stay. Judge, I want to...
Where you been? I saw the cops rousting you at the rally.
Huey man I got to talk with you...
So talk...
Alone...
Look... can we deal with this tomorrow... I'm tired...
Yeah man, but where's Judge?
You know I think Brother Judge needs our support right now, not our suspicion This is beautiful man. Folks around here never read the truth like this before.
...at least that takes Bobby Seale off the street...
Not good enough Rodgers. Not good enough at all. Black terrorists on the floor of a State Capitol. I will not say this again, these Negro Commies are to be stopped and now. You tear them down. Either from the outside or the inside.
We're working on that...
Work harder. And get me some results. Those Black Bastards could be up to anything.
Granted, the Free Huey thing has become a bit of a rallying cry for the left...
Rallying cry, it's an insurrection. Seale, that god damned Cleaver, Where the hell do these guys come from?
Well... like they say, there's a Panther born every minute in the ghetto. Uh... we seem to have "underestimated" the support of the Black community. It's their power base...
Well, then we're going to take that power away from those bastards.
You mean...
Yes, that's exactly what I mean. And Agent Rodgers?... This conversation never occurred.
Yes sir I was.
And did you witness the shootout?
Yes sir, I did.
From what you saw, did Huey Newton start the shooting?
No sir he didn't.
Huh, well then... did someone else start shooting?
I refuse to answer the question on the grounds it might incriminate me.
Did you shoot the officers in question?
Again I'll take the fifth amendment on that question.
But lots of our people don't read, man. They need strong imagery to help them out.
Yeah... then shouldn't this be all of us together.
Trust me Huey, this picture will be worth a thousand words. Now have you given any thought to that Peace and Freedom Party thing. They really want to hook up with us. Do a rally together. Hell it'd broaden our base of visibility.
Yeah, but aligning with white organizations. I'm not sure now's the time.
The time, my friend, is what Sartre called, "the moment the match is being put to the fuse." Question is, is the hand holding that match gonna be black or white.
...no full fledge alliance. But I think we should do a rally with them. Show that there's some common ground between Black and White. You all with that? All right then Eldridge, set it up.
Don't I know it. Come on in Agent Rodgers. Sit down. Always a... pleasure to see you. How can I be of help?
It's a bit more like how can we help you. Bay Area's become quite a hornet's nest in terms of subversive activities. And... well Mr. Hoover wants to reiterate that the FBI will be happy to assist local authorities in any way we can. On a strictly advisory basis... of course.
Of course. Well, I appreciate your offer, but we got things pretty well under control. Same bunch of kooks you guys already have under surveillance. They're still doing a lot of yelling and potsmoking but nothing to worry about.
I see. What about the Black Panther Party for SelfDefense?
Heh, bunch of shines running around in dark caps waving their fists about some streetlight. They're loud, but they aren't dangerous,
Can you make a deal with them?
Naw... They're kids mostly. Idealists. They actually think they're for real.
Hmmm. As you know the Bureau  and Mr. Hoover  is particularly "sensitive" to anything that might agitate or solidify the coloreds on the left.
You want me to put a man on it?
That would be an excellent start. Tell him to keep a low profile.
One: "We want freedom. We want the power to determine the destiny of our Black Community." Two: "We want full employment for our people." Three: "We want to end the robbery by the white man of our Black Community." Christ, they're asking for reparations...
They couldn't have thought this up for themselves.
Now hold on Rodgers...
Chief Dorsett, if the Black Panthers are going to remain in your jurisdiction, some fundamental changes in attitude need to be made...
I want it duly noted, that this operation was entirely under the auspices of the Oakland Police Department. The FBI doesn't have a monopoly on agents infiltrating enemy organizations, my friend. As I've said before, Agent Rodgers, we have things under control in our city...
Are you finished?
No I'm not. I'd like to say, frankly and off the record, that I resent the Bureau's presence here. "Advisory Basis" or not. And, once we get these boys put away and the Panthers permanently discredited, I'd appreciate it if you'd leave us to take care of our own. Now I'm finished.
These are memos from the commissioner, the mayor and Hoover himself, putting the Black Panthers and their subversive activities under the full jurisdiction of the Bureau.
Jesus...
As far as Mr. Hoover is concerned the worst has happened, the Panthers have unified with other organizations  most likely sponsored by communists  to undermine the war in Vietnam. By doing so, they have quite simply guaranteed their own extinction.
Rodgers... this is no good...
Cut the crap, you've been taking the man's money for years. Now it's time you earned it.
To be quite honest it turns my stomach.
Neither your stomach or your opinion matters here Dorsett... What matters is that Mr. Trafficante and the Bureau have come up with a solution to our Panther Problem. One might say...The Final Solution.
I don't think that will be any problem...
You talk as if this thing's already been decided.
Check it out... Great huh? I tell you those guys know what time it is. Man I'm with that...
I don't know. Look around man.
C'mon Judge we got to start somewhere.
Yeah, and I'm gonna start by getting on my feet. Working on things from inside the system.
Inside ain't in the system. It's right there inside you!! I'm joining up.
Hey, this what they got you doing now?
Party needs the bread. Be hip to the struggle, only a dollar!!!
Have to pass on the revolution today man, I got class... But how about tonight, I was gonna check out "Cloud Nine." Just like old times.
Can't... they're having a PE meeting at Headquarters tonight, come on down. Check it out.
PE? What? You guys doing gym class?
No man. PE  "political education."
...Glad you came man.
Yeah, only I figure you'd be the one doing the speaking.
Not yet, one of these day's maybe. Bobby's party chairman. Political Education's really his bag.
Man, did you see Huey down on Grove street? All up on that cop, that was beautiful.
Yeah, it was alright. Hey, can you give me a lift?
You got it. Berkeley?
No, Panther Headquarters. Least that way we could hang out more like we used to.
You joining? My Brother.. My brother.
Hey, it's the invisible man. Brother where you been?
Cy... I ain't even sure.
C'mon we'll walk and talk...
Naw... I gotta...
I hear you. I'll catch you in a bit. Feeling cooped up in there, you know?
Cy... Cy... Oh shit man... who did this to you. Was it the pigs?
N... N...... Not... Oh.
Sabu, what the fuck you doing? Ain't nobody gonna push on this street.
Shit, I ain't doing nothing. White bread asks for cocaine, I take his money. Shit... you know... It was just a hustle.
Sabu... High white dude's the only thing you could hustle.
Man... fuck you. Why you always bustin' my balls? All that high and mighty militant shit. I ain't doing nothing.
I ain't gonna tell you no more. No pushing in the neighborhood, especially not on my fucking street. You're killing your own people asshole.
Man, fuck you!!!
No Fuck you!!!
Motherfucker... you stay away...
Look this is bull...
God damn... Kid never had a chance...
Mothafuck... Hey!!! What the hell!!!
Hey... Cy... what now you a righteous Panther man, you too uppity to drink with us?
You know that's bullshit.
Aaaah, Bitter Motherfucker... I almost forgot how nasty that shit is.
Well don't go forgetting your friends.
Ain't gonna happen, stay cool.
You know it. Stay Black...
Damn straight.
You're Judge right? We need to talk.
I don't know you and I got nothing to say to you.
Yeah you do. It's up to you either here or downtown.
So... we understand each other Judge?
Yeah.
I expect to hear from you soon. If Huey Newton takes a crap, I want to know how big it was. Otherwise I'm gonna come looking for you. And I won't be as "friendly" as today.
I got you.
Why didn't you tell us about the party you boys were planning at the capitol?
Shit man. It was... you know spontaneous.
Spontaneous my ass!! You told the press and you don't tell me. Remember you're working for us.
Yeah... whatever you say.
Are you fucking with me? You smartass piece of shit...
Get out of the car.
What's with you?
Get out of the fucking car.
What are you crazy?
Do you know how easy it would be for you to just disappear. Shit, you wouldn't even wash up for weeks. Do you fucking understand? I want you to move your ass outta neutral. I want a bunch of Panthers served up on a fucking plate. I want you to set 'em up... armed robbery!!
I can't... they don't operate that way...
Fuck how they operate. Just do it. like your man says, "By any means necessary."
Inspector Brimmer
Yeah, it's me.
Judge, hold on, is your phone safe?
Who fucking cares? You cops killed Cy. And before you bastards kill anyone else, I'll give you your fucking set up. That make you happy??!!
Judge, calm down.
Hey... what the hell you doing?
Shut up. Just shut the fuck up.
Go! Run! Go on! Get the fuck out of here!!
What? So you can shoot me? Call it resisting arrest?
I ain't gonna shoot you Judge. Look... it's over. Just run away. Get out. Stay away from Oakland. Cause it's gone... it's gone.
Brimmer you're fucked up...
Yeah... I'm fucked up. You're fucked up. Government's fucked up. Whole country's fucked up. You got no idea what's going on here. This is bigger than you and me. We're just little tiny soldiers getting moved around on some big asshole's desk. The Panthers... fuck you're history... they killed you and you don't even know it.
Who's they?
Drugs Judge, they're gonna flood West Oakland with dope. Jack you up and string you out like a two dollar whore. And while the community's shuffling for a fix, they're gonna snuff every Panther they can find.
Who? I mean besides the FBI?
I don't know. Except, it's one of you. Maybe not a Panther, but it's someone from the neighborhood. Judge. Look, just go. Get away. It's over. You lost. We all lost.
Yeah... Sounds like the Constitution to me. With a little of the Bill of Rights thrown in...
Inspector Brimmer, this is no joke During your surveillance have you seen any outside agitators? Professorial types? Communists?
No. I've seen Black men handing out bags of food. Having meetings. Patrolling the neighborhood. Having more meetings. They ain't...
They are carrying guns. They are threatening police officers. They are undermining the United States of America. And you Inspector Brimmer are not taking your duties seriously...
Like?
Like, you Inspector Brimmer are not going to be sitting in your car anymore. I think it's time for a more active type of involvement.
What the fuck?
Brimmer! Could you come in here please?
Sit down, This concerns you too. I don't need to say that your department's handling of the Black Panthers  particularly Inspector Brimmer's "undercover operation" has been a complete travesty.
Just hold on a god damn minute. I...
Huey!! Man you gotta check this out... You're gonna love...
Hold up a second... We got a decision to make.
What's up?
Dig it, you know those brothers over in San Fran... call themselves the Black Panthers too?
Sure, those boojie jokers don't do anything except print up a lotta paper saying "Black is Beautiful."
...The police report says he was shot three times but the coroner's report says quite clearly that Denzil Dowell was shot six times. And two of those shots were in his armpits. Brothers and Sisters you know why that is? Because Denzil had his hands up!!
No more police brutality! WHAT DO WE WANT?
Free? We're back where we started. Shit we still don't have a stop light.
Well as the Rev says, God helps those who help themselves. We'll be our own stoplight.
Well if anyone's gonna protect Malcolm's legacy it better be us.
Damn straight... Let's go check out these Paper Panthers.
This brothers is gonna be a colossal event. We'll shut the mother down right at the capitol, in front of the cameras. Will you cool it? What's up man? What it be Bobby?
What it be is, You aren't coming with us.
What? We're the leadership, you and me. There ain't enough of us to...
That's just it Huey. The pigs don't know how many Panthers there are. Both of us show and they might start putting 2 and 2 together. We're not even two hundred strong yet... but we got 'em guessing thousands.
I hear you. Alright. I'll go, you stay.
You got six months to donate to the party, Bobby?
You know it brother.
You got to sit on Eldridge...
Man, ElRage is ElRage. You know him.
Yeah, I do, but he's gotta cool it...
Okay now, er, Huey, so what's your telephone number?
I have confirmed to you my address, that's all I'm required to by law to do. We have broken no law.
What are you doing with the gun?
What are doing with yours?.
Lemme see that rifle son...
No! This is my private property. According to California law we have a constitutional right to bear arms.
Well... is it loaded?
I tell you "officer", it wasn't...
For the last time Boy!!! What do those guns mean??!!
They mean, Pig!, that the Black Panther Party declares that if you try to brutalize our community or take our weapons. We are going to shoot you!!!
Alma!? I uhh I don't think...
What do you mean? We're black ain't we? And we care about improving the plight of out people don't we? Or you figure oppression stops at that thing dangling between your legs!
Uhh... I with it sister but...
But nothing, we want full fledged membership in the Black Panther Party... and none of this "Okay sugah as long as you stay in the background washing my socks and rubbing my feet" bullshit either!
Little Bobby... Just a kid...
They're hurting us, baby. Huey locked up. Bobby Seale running all over the country holding things together. Cy dead. Little Bobby... I don't recognize half the faces at meetings.
Tyrone...
Oh shit Alma... you're...
I'm okay... listen to me... Let's go with Judge, check it out.
What?!? Don't tell me you're buying this?
Those ain't cops.
And they sure ain't from the neighborhood. Figure Sabu's in there?
Alma I told you to...
Fuck that, we've got company...
No...
You gotta. You gotta stay alive. You know what they were trying to do here. You got the pigs dead to rights. It's like Huey said, you're more important than any of us.
Too many stairs.
Got us in here, didn't I?
Shoulda got an apartment.
Well, I know that now.
4780150.
The phone works. Hey, I hooked up the phone.
The crowd goes wild.
478...
0150.
Fuck him.
Don't.
Fuck her too.
What's going on?!
People. In the house.
He's going down.
That room!
What?!
PANIC ROOM!
Damn it!
It doesn't work?!
Different phone line, I never hooked it up!
Can't hear a thing.
What do they want?
I don't know. Rob us. I don't know.
What do we do?
Wait.
What if they get in here?
They can't. They can't get in here. No. They can't.
I heard you.
Feel okay?
Yeah.
Shaky?
Nope.
Chills?
Huh uh.
"What we want is in that room."
They're coming in here, aren't they?
No, I told you, they can't. It's not a possibility.
We're not coming out. We're not letting you in. Get out of my house.
Say fuck.
Fuck.
"Get the fuck out of my house."
Get the fuck out of my house!
Oh, please.
Give me a break.
Are you freaking out?
Little bit. Yeah.
Small space?
Don't though.
Why did the chicken cross the road?
What am I, a five year old?
Why did the chicken cross the road?
I don't know, why?
To prove he wasn't chicken.
YOU CAN'T DO THAT! YOU CAN'T FREAK OUT LIKE THAT! YOU HAVE TO STAY HERE WITH ME!
I am. I'm here.
YOU HAVE TO!
I'm here. I'm here.
What, what, what is it?!
On the floor! Get on the floor!
Morse code?
Dot dot dot, dash dash dash, dot dot dot.
Where'd you learn S.O.S.?
"Titanic."
Got him!
Come on, come on...
We're never getting out of here.
Shhh...
Do it.
Yeah, but where's the third guy?
Not in the bedroom. Do it!
If it looks like I can't get back, just close the door.
No.
Close it!
What are you doing?
I saw something, I saw...
Strip 'em, expose the ends, try blue first, blue is phones!
Blue is phones?
Yes, no, I don't know, do 'em all!
Call Dad!
On it!
He'll do something.
Uh uh.
He'll know we're in trouble. He heard me, I said "There are three..."
He won't even know who it was.
What would you think, in the middle of the night? I mean, three what, three bears? He'll call the police.
Stop it.
He's just across the park, this is why we got places so close to each other, in case we needed each other, we're still a family, he'll help us...
He 
He WILL.
I'm sorry.
I'm sorry.
Why?
I was trying not to tell you...
What?
I'm dizzy and thirsty.
Okay, listen, honey, you went double digit here, you must have been shooting out adrenaline like crazy, we gotta bring your blood sugar back up, okay? Can you hear me?
I'm dizzy, not deaf.
Hey, she's still a smart ass, excellent sign. Did you see any sugar in here? Any candy bars, anything sweet?
Huh uh.
Okay, you just gotta calm yourself down, that's all, just stay calm and your adrenaline will go back to normal and you'll be fine.
What if I keep dropping?
Not an option.
What if I do?
What if I spazz out?
No biggie, we've been through it a dozen times, I just jab you with the Glucogen.
Where is the Glucogen?
Oh, you know, it's uh... it's in the little fridge in your room.
I'm sorry, Mom.
Hey, quit apologizing, you're starting to sound like Grandma. You're not gonna have an attack. Okay?
Okay.
 seventeen feet wide, fiftyfive feet deep, fortytwo hundred square feet, four floors with a rentable basement apartment, so five altogether, courtyard in back 
Could you slow down a little? Or we could wait for the car...
No cars. Feet are faster.
How many more do we have after this?
None, there's nothing else, you know how tight the market is.
This is it? I told you on the phone, I have to be moved in in two weeks. Sarah, please don't bounce that here.
Something's weird.
What?
I don't know, doesn't that corner seem funny to you?
Makes me nervous.
Why?
Ever read any Poe?
I don't think so, but I love her album.
No, Edgar Allen.
The furniture guy?
What's to keep them from prying open the door?
Old Bernie didn't miss a trick with this room, did he?
Open the door.
And with kids like he's got, no wonder he wanted a place to hide.
Watch your mouth.
It's okay, Raoul.
Wait a minute, wait a minute. We can still handle this. Can we still handle this?
It's just the woman and the kid?
Cut it back a little bit.
No fucking way.
He's right, we can't get into the room if they're dead!
We're not gonna do anything about him, he's fine.
If you think I'm gonna let my half of the fourteen million bucks slip away because of 
"Half?" What did you, take a nap in math class? Three people, three shares, one third. Four point six six six repeating.
I'm just saying, the man is a problem. And he's your problem. Wasn't me idea to bring him along.
That's right, Raoul, it wasn't your idea, none of this was your idea, it was mine, it's my family we're ripping off, it's my prick grandfather who built that fucking room, it was my idea to get the plans, I found the floor safe, and it was my idea to ask a guy who builds these rooms to help break into one! Me, me, me, I, I, I, at no point did I say "you" or Raoul," got it?
He puts his hands on me again I'll bury a slug in his ear.
No, you will not, because without Burnham there's no way in hell we're gonna get into that safe, so as far as I'm concerned he can paint your ass blue and run it up a flagpole and you won't lay a finger on him, you understand me?
Don't take no tone of voice with me, Homes.
What is this shit you're talking all of a sudden? You're a bus driver, "Homes," you live in Flatbush, so please don't start spouting some Elmore Leonard shit you just heard because I saw that movie too,
We're leaving.
The hell we are.
Suit yourself.
Nobody leaves.
Observe.
Working elevator. Mr. Pearlstine, the previous owner, was disabled the last ten years of his life. Highly unusual, the elevator, you will not find this in ninety percent of brownstones.
Will they take asking price? I need a two week escrow and I'm already approved for the loan.
A what?
A safe room. An inner sanctum. A castle keep, in medieval times.
Everything's springloaded, even if the power's out it's fully functional.
Open it.
That's highly inappropriate.
I said open the door.
Push that button for me, will you?
Don't!
One day you will learn to respect other people's time, Lydia, one day you 
Evan, I am so sorry, you were a saint to wait for us!
I don't have to tell you there is an acute shortage of living space in Manhattan right now and this is a highly unique property.
No ball, kid.
Third floor, spare bedroom, den, what have you. Mr. Pearlstine used it as an office.
He's talking about Bernard Pearlstine.
Master bath.
The hotel guy? It's been in the papers lately. His kids are all suing each other over his estate. He was a total recluse, paranoid, rich as hell, he was worth thirty million or something, now it turns out they can't find half of it. Somebody took something didn't belong to them!
I hardly see how family gossip is germane to showing the property.
Stop calling it the property, you sound ridiculous.
Master closet.
Could the child please stop that?
KID! NO ELEVATOR!
Oh, I've seen these...
It's quite in vogue in high end construction right now. One really can't be too careful about home invasion.
Hey, this is perfect for you... Absolutely! You're a woman, you're living alone now. Your alarm goes off, or you head glass break, or for whatever reason you think someone's broken into your home in the middle of the night. What are you going to do? Call the police and wait until they get here on Tuesday? Traipse downstairs in your sexy little underthings and check it out? I think not!
Reinforced steel core walls. Buried phone line, completely separate, not connected to the house's main line and never exposed throughout the house's infrastructure or outside the house  you can call the police; nobody can cut you off. Your own ventilation system, complete with oxygen scrubber, so you've got plenty of fresh air for as long as you like. And a bank of video monitors 
That door is a safely hazard.
Not at all.
Yeah?
Everything okay?
Huh?
'Bout four o'clock.
I don't get it.
Somebody called you?
Can we come in?
What do you want?
We'd like to come in.
No, you can't come in.
Can we come in?
Stop asking me that. I'm fine. Who called you?
You don't look so good.
You wake me out of a sound sleep at four in the morning and then tell me I look like hell? Of course I look like hell, you don't look so hot yourself, Jack. I'm freezing here, thank you for checking, can I go?
Your husband says you said "There are three..." right before you got cut off.
Oh, that phone call...
May I ask what the rest of that sentence was going to be?
Huh?
The sentence that started "There are three." What was the rest?
Fuck.
I know.
Fuck!
Keep your voice down.
They're not supposed to be here!
This was your department, Junior.
They're not supposed to be here!
That's why the key didn't work, they changed the locks.
Fourteen day escrow, man, that's almost three weeks! They shouldn't be here for another week! They don't own this house yet!
Exactly how is fourteen days almost three weeks?
Fourteen business days. Escrow is always business days.
I mean, right? Isn't it?
You're an idiot.
Who is this guy?
Raoul is cool. That's all you need to know.
This is insane. I'm outta here.
Unless Daddy comes back later.
Daddy's not coming back, she's in the middle of a divorce, it's just the two of them. We're okay, here. We can do this, right?
Fortyfive minutes. That's all you said you need. That's like nothing.
She'll call the cops, they'll be here before I get unpacked.
So we keep an eye on her. Raoul can totally administrate that part.
They won't get hurt.
What about us? What if she has a gun?
Raoul, what in God's name do we do if she has a gun?
Asshole.
A guy shows you a gun, Burnham, and you insult him? Hey, who's the idiot? Huh?
Where did you get this clown?
I met him at the tables, same as you. And frankly, I'm grateful we have a little muscle right about now.
What tables? I've never seen him before.
Different tables.
The fuck did you bring a gun for?
It's still a good plan. It's just... got a twist.
Yeah. Kidnapping.
Not if we keep 'em here. You can't kidnap somebody in their own house. It's just breaking and entering, unless we take 'em someplace. Or something like that, I'm pretty sure.
Pure idiot.
I am. I'm an idiot's son. An idiot's grandson. I'm third generation idiot. But for once in my life I had a good idea, and I'm not giving up so easy. You are? Are you actually telling me that for the first time in your life you're gonna throw your cards on the table and go home early? I can't believe my eyes. Fourteen million dollars upstairs, Burnham. You'll be out of the hole. Baby, you'll be so far out of the hole you could draw bricks every night for the next twenty years and still shit green. Come on, Buddy. One more hand.
Got her right where you want her, Junior.
Shut up.
When you said you'd let 'em go I thought she'd come running right out for sure.
Shut up and let me think.
I'm afraid to let you think, Junior. Things get worse when you think. Oh, that's gonna help.
Okay, fuckball, you think. What are we gonna do?
She said she did.
She lied. Cops woulda been here by now if she called 'em. Besides, Junior cut the phones.
Yes. Yes, it's all terrible ironic and amusing. You fuck. Now how are you gonna get us into that room?
Can't. Whole point. Can't get in the room.
Open it.
I did.
Be quiet.
We're trying to scare them, not kill them!
They're coughing.
They're gonna die in there!
Nobody is gonna die, man, will you please have the balls to follow through with a good idea? Think about it, what would you do if you were them, stay in there and choke to death, or come out?! Huh? We're just getting them to come out for fortyfive minutes, fortyfive fucking minutes! The worst that's gonna happen is they pass out, we drag 'em out here into the fresh air, and they'll be fine.
Junior, you gigantic idiot, how are we supposed to get into the room if they pass out?
Cell phone.
Shit!
She's never coming out.
Hey.
And we're never getting in.
Do me a favor and don't talk.
Jesus, what was I thinking?
Hey man, after all we went through I am not walking out when we're this close.
Close? Are you insane? We're nowhere near close! Fuck this, I'll make an anonymous phone call on Monday, they'll find the floor safe, and I'll inherit the shit. Little piece of it, anyway, it's better than nothing.
What about us?
We're not leaving. I'm getting in that room, and I'm opening that safe.
Lookin' doubtful there, Big Guy, but ten out of ten for attitude.
You walk out that door and you lose your share of the money.
Yeah, whatever.
I mean it!
Adios.
What?
A woman and a little girl, both asleep upstairs.
You're fuckin' A we can do this.
Not with me. Not with people.
No problem.
I don't want Raoul to administrate that part.
You're welcome.
Peace out.
What if she called the cops?
She didn't.
What the fuck is funny about this?
God.
There is not one thing funny here.
Who else but God could think this shit up? I spend ten years building those fucking rooms to keep people out, now I gotta figure out how to get in. God, man, He just loves the irony.
So what the fuck are we supposed to do?!
Make her come out. And when she does, that's when we gotta be careful. She can't get out of this house. She can't even think she can get out of this house. We just keep them here and keep them quiet for fortyfive minutes. And I don't want Joe Pesci here standing over them with his fat sweaty finger on the trigger. That's a sure way for us to end up with two dead bodies and little puffs of smoke burning out of our heads up in Greenhaven. So we're gonna seal the place up. They wanna hole up in here? Fine, we'll help 'em. Make it impossible for them to leave. Once they come out of that room.
He said open it.
Just sending a message. She'll get the point.
You should see the look on your face.
The fuck did you do that for?!
Fuckin' asshole, thinks he knows me. Drives his German car up to 125th Street a couple of times, buys a few rounds, thinks he's a tough guy, thinks he knows me. You don't know one thing about me!
Stop it! Stop it!
Who's the clown now? Huh?! Who's the fucking clown now?!
Me. I am.
That's right.
Burning me. It's burning my eye.
I have the gun.
Yes.
Remember that.
Please...
What? What do you want me to do?
What do you think? Get us into that room.
I can't.
You can. You're full of ideas. You just need to squeeze one out.
I can't...
You got till the count of three. Then you end up like him.
One. Squeeze.
This is ridiculous...
Two. Squeeze harder.
I can't just...
Th 
Okay, okay! Okay.
You got an idea?
Yeah. Yeah, I got an idea. I gotta check something.
Are you okay?
Hurry up, for Christ's sake!
The hell does she want?
I don't know, she keeps screamin' the same thing over and over.
Yeah, just like a half hour, maybe a little more, and your mom'll give it to you. You can wait a half hour, can't you?
Yeah. She can. She's fine, she's just like, tired, she's gotta rest. You rest, Kid. Half an hour.
You're wasting your fucking time, man, you're wasting my time. You don't know how to do this, and the longer we stay in here, the more likely she's gonna lose it and call the cops!
Are you gonna open the safe?
She's fuckin' crazy, she killed the kid! She just killed her own kid!
It's not her fault, it's not her fault, the guy must have called them. Look, look, look, she's telling us.
She's gonna handle it.
She better.
That's your problem.
That's their problem.
Let me fucking finish this so we can get out of here.
You finish. Then we finish.
 posed to mean?
You're here with me, you're already on the hook for one. Buy one, you get the rest for the same price. You know that.
Get the fuck away from me.
The kid in here. The other two when we come out.
Bullshit.
You know how this gotta end.
The walls are steel, right?
Not that one.
NOT THAT ONE?!
Hey man, it's the neighbor's house, who breaks in through the neighbor's house?!
WHO THE FUCK BREAKS IN THROUGH THE NEIGHBOR'S HOUSE?!
We've got the Kid! WE'VE GOT YOUR KID!! What the fuck is she thinking?!
She's got your gun, that's what she's thinking! The FUCK you had to bring a gun for?!
YOU KNOW HOW THIS IS GONNA GO!
FUCK YOU, I'M GONE!
That Foley looks like he's been through a war or two.
I've seen better.
Think there's any truth to what he was saying about those girls? Is that still going on?
Sure it is, Sweet Pea, but he should've warned you 'scuzzy' female types about the 'Puget Dudes.' They'll tell you they're wearing a rubber but they've bit a little hole in the end.
Jets.
I hate to tell you guys, but only two out of every class make it into jets. Which one of you is going with me?
Hey, you gonna tell anybody about this?
Not if you make it worth my while. How about free boonies for the duration?
You told us it would grow out an inch.
It's grown out more than an inch, sweetheart.
Could you believe those girls!
'Nellie's Nymphos!'
Jesus, that Lynette! I rode her hard and put her up wet.
Look at Foley! Can you believe it!
Shhhh...
Nice, hospitable folks they get around here. I hope she comes.
She'll come, pard. A rich socialite Oakie like you oughta be a big catch around these parts.
Get off my case, Mayo. I didn't grow up rich.
You okay?
Sure.
Hey, you guys still awake?
Yeah.
What's the matter, Sweet Pea. Foley finally starting to get to you?
Naw.
That isn't true, is it?
A little.
I kid you not, Mayo, I am in love. We must've set a new indoor record today. You want to know how many times we did it?
You'd better get smart, man. It's time to walk away.
What? You've gotta be kidding!
Remember what Foley said? His little warning? Those are the girls he was talking about. They're out to marry us any way they can.
I don't believe that. They're just having a good time, same as us.
That's what they want you to think, but I saw where she lived, what is she's trying to get away from. Just take my word for it, pard. Break it off now. Do it this week.
Thanks for covering for me.
No problem, but who's Susan?
My girl back home. We're supposed to get married after I get my wings. She was Tommy's girl. They were engaged to be married before he died. I should've told you about her. I don't know why I didn't, except I didn't want you to think I was a shit for making it with Lynette.
I'm not your folks, man. You love this... Susan?
She's the sweetest person I've ever known. Loves kids. Works with handicapped kids every afternoon at the church. Everybody loves her.
I didn't ask you all that, Sweet Pea. I asked if you loved her.
Listen, I'm not going to go to that little reunion party. I'm meeting Lynette at the motel. Best head in fiftytwo states. After three days of survival training, how could I resist?
You should've done what I did. A clean break.
Lynette told me it really tore her up when you didn't call this week.
Talk to me in the morning. I feel like shit.
But it can't wait.
Calm down, Sweet Pea. She seen a doctor?
No, but she's gotta be at least a month late.
Doesn't mean shit. Get her to a doctor. You can't do anything until you hear what he says. Make the appointment yourself.
It's a big religious thing with her and she won't even discuss it.
But she expects you to marry her?
She said it was up to me. If I don't, she'll go off and have the baby on her own somewhere.
So what's the problem? Girls do that all the time.
I can't let her go off and have the kid by herself and not do anything. If it's my kid, too, then I've got a responsibility, don't I?
Not if she won't even talk about an abortion.
But it would still be my kid. That's the point.
Do you know that for sure?
It's mine.
Okay, but what if it's like Foley said and she got knocked up, to trap you  is it still your responsibility?
No matter how it happened, if she goes ahead and has it" Zack, there'll be a child in the world that's mine  and I couldn't go through life knowing that and not knowing its name or where it lived.
Jesus Christ, Sid! Is everything your responsibility?
Sid, what happened?
I don't know... I felt like... like I was suffocating... Christ, Zack... I was so scared... so godddamn scared...
He's right, Zack. It doesn't matter.
Just like that it's all over? With less than two weeks to go, you're out?
Please, Zack  go back to the barracks!
I don't get it! He's the best candidate in our class! Ask anyone! The best student! The best leader! The best friend to everybody! Couldn't you bend your goddamn standards just a little?
Zack, it wasn't him! He didn't ask me to D.O.R. I came to him on my own. I'm glad it's over, Zack. I really mean that. He was right. I wasn't doing this for me.
How do you figure that's your bunk?
He said it's up to us and I got here first, didn't I?
Two bucks a buckle, Perryman. Look at that shine! Boonies'll cost you five.
Who's got two bucks? It's costing me every penny they pay us just to keep my old Lady and my kids in that motel.
Hey, man, is the pissass money you're making off this worth the risk of getting us all kicked out of here on an honor violation?
I don't notice anyone else complaining.
I'll never get it polished in time. Give me a buckle, Zack.
I can't risk it.
You'd make it. He's just getting to the girls. Come on, Zack. I gotta see my family, man. I couldn't take it if he keeps me here over the weekend.
Sorry, pard. Wouldn't want you to get an honor violation.
I see you didn't DOR, Mayo.
Hey, Sid, thanks.
Hey, do you guys ever... feel like you don't belong here...?
Yeah. All week long.
How about that prick! He told me he wasn't officer material because he grew up poor like me.
He said he grew up poor?
The kid on the windy side of the baker's window. That's how he put it.
Foley's not poor. Buddy of mine in ohfour told me he's the son of a rich doctor down in Louisiana.
Hey, what kind of name is Pokrifki?
Polish. What kind of name is Mayo?
Italian. My mom was Irish. I got her ears. But the rest is all wop.
Where are you from, Mayo the Wop?
Everywhere and nowhere, Paula the Polack.
Seriously.
My father is a Rear Admiral in the Seventh Fleet.
Really?
Yeah. We've lived all over the world. Katmandu, Moscow, Nairobi.
Really? I've never been out of Washington except once when I visited this aunt of mine over to Portland. I mean, over at Portland. Ain't it pathetic the way folks talk around here?
You got a girl?
No, and I'm not looking for one either.
I hear most of the girls who come to these things are looking for a husband.
Not me.
Yeah? Why're you here?
To meet interesting people, improve myself. You wouldn't believe the losers we got over in Port Angeles.
Do you go to school?
No. I work for National Paper. It's a good job. I make eighttwentythree an hour. When I get enough money saved, I plan to go on to college.
Think you'll make it all the way to getting your wings?
Who knows? Guys a lot smarter than me are dropping out like flies.
Just think 'I'm gonna do it!' Program yourself. See yourself making it. It'll happen. I know 'cause I just read this article in Cosmo, and it was about that very thing.
You're a very pretty girl, Paula.
I think we're making some of the locals jealous.
Who cares? Mmmm. Now I remember. Mayo the Wop. Gee, I'm glad you're here. I've been looking forward to this all week.
Me, too.
I vote for the motel.
My kinda group!
I shouldn't have done that. I should've walked.
He didn't give you much choice.
There's always a choice.
Where'd you learn to fight like that?
I don't feel like talking, if you don't mind.
Opening up just a little wouldn't kill you, ya know.
You want me to fuck you? Is that it? Okay, come here. Take your clothes off. Get into bed.
Where's that coming from? I wouldn't fuck now if my life depended on it!
Forget it. Just get out of here.
I don't know who you think you're talking to! I ain't some whore you brought here! I've been trying to be your friend and you treat me like shit!
Be a friend. Leave.
You got no manners and you never tell the truth! You're nothin' special. And if you ask me, you got no chance at all of being an officer!
You stayed after all.
Wrong. I've driven a hundred and twenty miles, told a hundred and twenty lies, and said a hundred and twenty Hail Mary's since I saw you. Hungry?
I'm starving.
Paula, I never try to fool anybody about who I am, what I want... so if even in the back of your 
I know who you are and what you want.
What do you want, Paula? What do you really want?
To have a good time with you until you have to go.
That's it?
Zack, I dare you not to fall in love with me. I ain't gonna get serious with you, no way. But how can you resist me? I'm like candy.
You're better than candy.
I'm serious. It's gonna be hard to get enough.
Zack, when you're through with a girl, what do you do? Do you say something or do you just... disappear?
I've never had a girl.
I forgot to thank you for breakfast.
Any time, sailor.
That was great.
It sure was.
Want me to get a towel?
I'll get it if you want.
I don't want you to move.
I don't want to move. But somebody has to move sometime. Eventually.
They found them like that, shriveled up from weeks without food or water...
You know, sometimes I wish I was one of those girls they're letting in the flight program these days. God, I'd love to fly.
What's stopping you?
I don't care what the magazines say... it's just not as easy being a girl, especially from a Catholic family. You don't know the junk I grew up listening to, 'bout the way women are supposed to think and act.
That's no excuse for not going after what you want.
Who says I'm not going after what I want? My mother's thirtynine years old and she still works in that factory. Every time I see her, I know exactly what I don't want.
My old lady swallowed a bottle of pills one day while I was at school.
God.
The thing that really got to me... she didn't leave a note. Nothing. I've always hated her for that.
Does it still hurt?
Naw. You're alone in this world no matter what kinda folks or background you had. Nothing hurts, pard, once you got that one down.
I'm sorry. I can't sit with you.
I understand. Maybe we'll see each other after the show...
What's the matter?
Nothing. Go back to the show, Paula.
I've seen all that a hundred times.
Hey, will you just leave me alone?
Come on. Invite me. All day the idea of a family Sunday dinner's been coming into my head. Since you're the only one I know around here with family...
Zack, I don't know if I want to do that...
Hey, what about Sunday dinner? When're you gonna let me know?
When I'm good and ready.
Hi.
Are those for me?
No, they're for your mom.
I'm so embarrassed. I knew I shouldn't have brought you here.
No, it's okay. It was a great free meal. Everybody was so uptight I felt sorry for you.
That's okay. I'm used to it.
So, after you graduate you go on to basic flight, right? Is that in Pensacola?
Yeah, then if I get jets, it's on to Beeville, Texas.
Zack, do you ever think about what it'd be like to have kids... a family.
No. Is that what you want?
Some day. When I'm sure I can do a better job of it than my folks.
What would you do differently?
For a start, I wouldn't marry a man I wasn't in love with.
Why'd your mom marry that guy if she didn't love him?
Because my real father wouldn't marry her.
Your real father?
Your real father was an Officer candidate like me?
Twentytwo years ago.
No wonder he was looking at me like that.
Call me during the week if you get the chance.
I'll try, but this week we go into survival training, so I can't make any promises. Well, thanks again for dinner. Thank your mom again for me, will you?
Sure. Zack, I hope you know I didn't have to show you that picture.
I know that.
I'm looking for Sid.
So?
Paula, he DORed and nobody's seen him.
Why'd he do it?
Hey! You know goddamn well what happened so let's not play any games, okay?
I'm not playing any games! Go look at Lynette's!
I don't know where that is.
I'd like to come with you.
Why?
Because he's my friend, too.
Please stop it. None of that's true. Goddamnit, I love you. I loved you ever since I met you.
Come on, Paula! You were looking for a ticket out of here and you didn't care who it was, any more than you cared with the last class of candidates you and Lynette fucked your way through, looking for a husband! Or the class before that!
Yeah. You got the whole story just right.
Beware of the Puget Debs  and we all laughed, especially him.
I'm not a Puget Deb. I hate that goddamn term!
I bet you do!
However you got it figured, I didn't kill Sid and Lynette didn't kill him! He killed himself!
That's brilliant.
Maybe not, but it is the truth. And Zack, you didn't kill him either.
God! I've never seen anything like that in my whole life! Did you see that guy's nose?
Lynette, just keep your mouth shut until we get to the motel. Will you do that for me, please.
Well, excuse me for livin'!
What did you tell him about the baby?
That there isn't one, as of today. I had my period. I couldn't believe it. He still wanted to marry me.
And you turned him down??
Of course. I don't want no Okie from Muscogee. I can get that right here in Port Angeles.
You little bitch! How could you? Was there ever a baby, Lynette? That's all I want to know! Did you make up that baby, Lynette? Did you??
Of course there was a baby. I'd never lie about something like that. Would I, Paula?
Come on, guys. It's five o'clock.
One more minute.
Far fucking out! I've been wanting to meet one of the Blue Angels since I can remember.
Lynette, watch your mouth! Somebody might overhear.
Paula, look at the new Poopies.
Yeah, I saw 'em. Poor guys.
See you in a month when you get liberty!
Don't worry. It grows out about an inch by them.
That was you guys, huh?
Come on. Let's go dance.
Hurry, Lynette. It's almost midnight.
I got my foot on the floor.
Well, it you're not gonna ask, then I will. How was it?
Great.
Details, Pokrif. From what I saw he had an incredible body.
Yeah... Mmmm...
What did he do? Did he do anything that was different?
Everything was different.
But in what ways?
How did it go with you guys?
Big Sid came in about two and a half seconds, then had the nerve to ask, 'Did you make it, too, sweetheart?'
He ask you out for next weekend?
No, but I told him I'd be at the Town Tavern next Saturday night, and he sounded like he might come.
I told Zack about Saturday night, too. The fifth week's supposed to be the roughest. Come Wednesday, he'll be wishing he took my number.
You hope.
He'll show. I'd bet my paycheck on it.
You serious about having him over?
I haven't made up my mind.
Paula, how far would you go to catch Zack?
What do you mean?
You know what I mean. Would you... let yourself get pregnant?
No way... Would you?
I never used to think I'd do something like that, but now I'm not so sure. You ask me, nine weeks just ain't long enough to get a guy to fall in love with you.
That don't justify trying to trap a boy by getting pregnant, Lynette! Nothing justifies that. I can't believe you're even thinking like that. I mean, that's really backward.
No more backward, if you ask me, than the way these hotshot assholes fuck us, then ditch us. Don't you ever feel used, Paula? Don't you ever feel like if this is all you get for your trouble then the sonofabitch ought to be paying for it...?
No. I never feel like that.
I do.
Lynette, where's Sid?
Already come and gone. Can you believe it? He DORed in the twelfth week. How can you win?
God help you, Lynette!
You're no better than me, Paula! You're just the same!
No! That's not true!
Is this you boys first night of liberty since you got here?
Yes, ma'am. Four long, hard weeks of sacrifice for my country... for my people... for you. But I survived.
You been through the Dilbert Dunker yet?
Cake walk. Both my dad and my brother went through it and made it, so I know I can.
Is your brother a flyer?
He was. He died.
Vietnam?
Yeah.
I had a big brother who died over there, too. He wasn't no flyer though. He was just your basic Marine Corps type. I was only twelve when it happened, so I don't remember much about him.
I sure remember Tommy. Mind if we talked about something else?
We don't have to talk at all.
Something tells me you've been here before.
Now what on earth would give you an idea like that?
You're sure it's okay?
Don't worry. I'll respect you afterwards.
What would you girls like to do? Want to stick around here for a little or... or could I suggest another plan...?
Like pick up some booze and go to a motel?
Or we could do that yeah.
Sid Worley, I think you're ashamed of me.
Ashamed? No  I love you, Lynette. I mean that. After I leave them, I'll meet you at the motel, okay?
If you won't take me to dinner with your parents, I won't meet you at the motel.
Lynette, I told you already, it won't work.
Then, I'll see you around.
By the way, shouldn't you have had a period by now?
I'm a little late, that's all.
How late?
What difference does it make? If anything was to happen, which I'm sure it isn't, it would be my responsibility.
Exactly how late are you, Lynette?
What do you care? Suppose I was pregnant. Just suppose it. You don't think I'd try to make you do anything you don't want to, do you?
No. But that's not the only issue here, sweetheart. There's a lot more to it than that.
What other issue is there, Sid?
My responsibility as its father, for one. I mean, if I've made you pregnant, I'd want to... do the right thing.
...I'd want to pay for the abortion... I'd want to be with you through the whole thing... by your side. So how late are you, Lynette?
Let's just wait and see what happens.
Hi, babe. Come on. I've got a couple of things I want to tell you.
What're you doing out of uniform, Sid? You don't want to get in trouble.
Forget that. Come on. Got a little surprise...
I can't go like this. Can't you wait a few minutes 'til I'm ready?
No way. I'm so happy I'm about to bust. Here, honey. This is for you. It cost me my whole savings, but I said what the fuck.
Sid! Oh, it's beautiful! You mean...
That's right. Let's get married, Lynette. Let's find a justice of the peace and just do it!
Let's go tell Paula! God, I wonder where we'll be stationed first. I hope it'll be Hawaii. I've always wanted to go to Hawaii.
We're not gonna be stationed anywhere, baby. I DORed.
You what?
I had to, baby... I'm no aviator. I was faking it, like I was with everything else in my life... up 'til right now.
But... but what would we do? Where would we go?
Oklahoma. I can get my old job back at JC Penney's. In a couple of years, I'll be floor manager. Oh, you're gonna love Oklahoma, Lynette. You and mama'll get along just great. Of course, money will be a little tight for a while, but we'll make it.
Sid, there's no baby.
What?
I'm not pregnant. I got my period this morning. There's no baby, Sid.
Well, I'll be goddamned.
I know I'm late and I'm sorry, but Mrs. Rufferwell asked us to help with the cleanup and...
I said, come here!
Daddy, I don't want to get into anything with you tonight. I'm tired and I...
What are you tired from?
I don't know what it is. It could be anything.
But you knew right off what I was talking about, didn't you, Paula! Did you let that boy 
Don't you dare ask me that question. I'm an adult and you got no right to push your nose into my affairs like that!
Well, as long as you live in this house, young lady, you live by my rules! You should be dating local boys.
Uhuh! Not a chance! There's nobody in this town doing anything with his life, except what his father did, which is nothing. If I can't have more out of life than that, I'd rather be dead!
Do you honestly think you'll find a boy in that... that officer's school who's serious about marriage?
Yes I do!
Then you're dumber than I thought! All you'll get from their kind is pregnant!
Now when I say "understand" I want the whole group to say, "Yes, sir!" Understand?
Yes, sir!
Louder!
Yes, sir!!
I don't believe what I'm seeing! Where've you been all your lives, at an orgy? Listening to Mick Jagger and bad mouthing your country, I'll bet.
Stop eyeballing me, boy! You are not worthy enough to look your superiors in the eye. Use your peripheral vision! Understand?!
Yes, sir!
I know why most of you are here. We're not stupid. But before you get to sell what we teach you over at United Airlines, you gotta give the Navy six years of your life, Sweet Pea. Lot of things can happen in six year. Another war could come up in six years. If you're too peaceful a person to dump napalm on an enemy village where there might be women and children, I'm gonna find that out. Understand?
Yes, sir!
Hi, son.
How're you doing, Sarge?
What did you call me?
Pardon?
What did you call me, boy?
I called you Sarge.
Before that.
I didn't call you anything before that.
You said, 'How're you?' I am not a 'ewe,' boy! A ewe is a female sheep, boy! Is that what you think I am, boy?
No.
No, sir!
No, sir.
Lauder, Sweet Pea!
No, sir!
Do you want to fuck me up the ass, boy? Is that why you called me a 'ewe'? Are you a queer?
No, sir.
Where are you from, boy?
Oklahoma City, Oklahoma.
Only two things come out of Oklahoma, steers and queers. Which one are you, boy? I don't see any horns so you must be a queer.
No, sir.
Stop whispering, Sweet Pea, you're giving me a hard on!
Whatever you say, Mayonnaise.
Fall out on the lawn in five minutes, in your Poopie suits!
What did you call me, Mayo?
Zack, don't!
Are you laughing at me, dickbrain?
No, sir!
What's your name, boy?
Mayo, Zack Mayo, sir!
How did you slip into this program, Mayo? I didn't know the Navy was so hard up. You got an injury there, Mayo?
Not exactly, sir.
Where'd you get this, Mayo? This is really wonder work.
Subic Bay, sir. In the Philippines.
I thought I recognized the work. Be proud of those wings. They're the only ones you're gonna leave here with, Mayonaise.
I want your D.O.R.
No, sir. You can kick me out, but I'm not quitting.
Get into your fatigues, Mayo. Before the weekend's out, you'll quit.
She may not make it through the program, but she's got more heart and more character than you'll ever have. I've seen your college record. I've never heard of most of those schools. Tell me something, Mayo. Did you buy that degree?
No, sir! It was the hardest thing I ever did, sir! Until this.
That's a lie, Mayo. You've gone through a lot worse, haven't you?
Stop eyeballing me, mister! I've looked through your file and done a little checking, and I know it all. I know about your mother. I know your old man's an alcoholic and a whore chaser. Life sure has dealt you some shitty cards! Hasn't it, Mayo?
I'm doing okay, sir.
No you're not. You're failing the big one, baby, and I don't just mean in here. I mean in life. I've watched you, Mayo, and you don't mesh. You grabass and joke around but you don't make friends, not the way the others do.
Hey, what do you say we call off this little charade of yours over a couple of beers at Trader Jon's...? Come on, man. You're about as close to being officer material as me.
Sir, this candidate believes he'll make a good officer, sir!
No way, Mayo. You don't give a shit about anybody but yourself and every single one of your classmates knows it. Think they'd trust you behind the controls of a plane they have to fly in? Hey, man, I figure you for the kind of guy who'd zip off one day in my F14 and sell it to the Cubans.
Sir, that's not true! I love my country!
Sell it to the Air Force, Mayo!
I want to fly, sir!
That's no reason. Everybody wants to fly. My grandmother wants to fly. You going after a job with one of the airlines?
I want to fly jets, sir!
Why? Because you can do it alone?
No, sir!
What is it, the kicks? Is that it?
I don't want to do something anybody can do.
Pity you don't have the character.
That's not true, sir! I've changed a lot since I've been here! And I'm gonna make it, sir!
Not a fucking chance, asshole!
Mayo, are those your friends?
Yes, sir!
Maybe there's hope for you yet.
You didn't kick him out...? Wait, didn't he tell you what he's been going through?
It doesn't matter what he's going through. That's the whole purpose of this zoo. What matters is he freaked out for some reason at twentyfive thousand feet and that can't ever happen again.
But you don't understand. There's this girl he's gotten pregnant and she's putting him through hell, sir.
I thought the D.I.'s were supposed to help you in this place! What kind of human being are you?
Stop eyeballing me, Mayo, or you're out!
Mayo, the rest of your class knows about candidate Worley, and we're all sorry.
Sir, this officer candidate requests permission to speak to you in private.
I'm busy, Mayo. It'll have to wait.
It's important, sir!
Mayo, you didn't hear me  I said I I'm busy! And so are you! Go get cleaned up!
Aw screw it...
What're you waiting for, Mayo? Get your scuzzy ass up here.
Yes, sir!
You're good.
Get on your feet and find out how good, sir.
Congratulations, Ensign Mayo, sir!
I'll never forget you as long as I live, Sergeant.
I know.
Well, goodbye.
See you in the fleet, sir!
Yeah. See you in the fleet, Sarge. And thank you.
Joe!
Come over here where I can see you.
Esther, do you think she's using... ...birth control?
Yes, Joe.
When did this happen?
A long time ago.
He doesn't mean anything by it, Zack. Do you, Joe?
I don't mean anything by it.
You're pretty funny, Mayo.
Maybe we'll be roommates, Seeger, and you'll find out how funny I really am...
Hey, baby, you could get sent to war, get your ass shot down.
Don't lose any sleep over it. I wouldn't mind being the first woman to fly a jet fighter in combat.
Great. You can go in my place.
Good morning, girls.
Ever heard of knocking, mayo?
Hey, did you hear? Sands and Kantrowitz DORed last night. Survival of the fittest.
The whole world's a jungle, huh, Mayo? Dog eat dog down to the last one, right?
You got it, Sweet Pea. Nice boonies, Seeger.
Zack, we've got to go.
Just trying to have fun. That fucking prison is really starting to get to me. C'mon, Seeger. Gimme a push. Fuck you guys! I'll do it myself!
Go on, Zack! Go for the record!
Fuck the record. Now you listen to me and do exactly what I tell you. Start back ten yards and take off from here. Not here... or there... but right here! No excuses, Seeger! You are going to plant those legs here and then you're going to yank yourself over that wall because you have to! You want jets? Then do it, goddamnit!
You, Zack?
Yes, Sir.
I'm Byron. Nice to meet you. C'mon. Let's go get your luggage.
How was the flight? They take care of you okay? Long way from Norfolk, isn't it?
Yes, sir.
Listen, kid, I was sorry to hear about your mom. That's pretty rough. I would've returned your call a lot sooner but I was out at sea...
I been calling for four months.
Well, that's how long I've been out at sea.
This is it. This is where I live. I suppose you could bunk over there and you could go to school at the base.
Great.
I'm not finished. I'll only be in port one week a month and when I'm here you'd never catch me playing daddy with you 'cause it's not who I am. Like I told you on the phone, you I'd be better off in that state school back in Virginia.
I ain't never going back to that school, sir.
You got to kid. Let me spell it out for you. This is a whorehouse. And I happen to like my life the way it is and nobody's gonna make me change.
I don't care about that. I just ain't going back. You don't want me? Okay. I'll find me another place.
Come back here, kid!
What for?
Okay, okay. You win.
Thank you, sir!
Stop calling me 'sir! I ain't no officer. My name is Byron.
Hi, Byron.
Zack, you little shit! You haven't changed a bit!
Neither have you, pard!
Hey, honey, look at this! My son! Isn't he beautiful? You should've called!
You were out at sea! Hey, guess what? I graduated. I got my degree.
I thought you quit school. Last I heard you were on your way to a construction job or something down in Brazil.
Yeah, I made some money down there, then I talked my way into another college and I did it. I wasn't magna cum laude but I did okay. You should've seen me in my cap and gown.
Why the fuck didn't you invite me? I would've come.
Ay, palequero. Never hochi in the P.I.
Whachusay, palequero? Short time, long time, only ten dolla.
So what're you doing in Seattle?
Get ready pard. This one's gonna blow you away.
Zackie, nothing you do will ever surprise me, pard, not after some of the shit you've pulled.
I joined the Navy.
You... in the Navy?
That's right. I'm on my way over to this officer school in Port Ranier.
Why?
To fly jets. To be the fastest motherfucker in the world. You gotta come and visit me. I'm only a couple hours away.
Who gave you this idea?
Nobody. It just came to me.
Don't be pissed. I'm on your side, Pard. I just don't want you to do something you'll regret. You gotta give six years to the Navy if you wanna fly... that's six years with the most uptight assholes God put on this earth. Officers aren't like you and me, man. It's another breed.
You afraid you'll have to salute me, Chief?
Fuck, no! Why would I care about something as dumb as that?
I don't know. That's just how it sounded. Well, I'll see you.
Hey, what did you want? A lot of fatherly bullshit? A big pat on the back?
From you, pard? Never. Thanks for the graduation present.
Hey, Zackie  don't go away mad.
Who's that?
Nobody. Just a girl I've been making it with the last couple of weekends.
Great ass.
Yeah, I sort of thought so myself.
Better watch out for that kind, Zackie. You know what they call 'em, don't ya?
Yeah, I know.
Back east in Newport, Rhode Island, they call 'em the Fall River Debs. In Pensacola, the Mobile Debs. In Norfolk 
That what she was... a Norfolk Deb?
Who? Aw shit, Zackie, let's not get off on your mother again, please.
What if I want to talk about her, pard? What then? You know, that's all I've ever heard from you, since I was a kid... you never want to talk about that, man, and it's important.
There's nothing to talk about. Two goddamn times I made it with your old lady. We barely even talked.
That's not how she told it. She said you wrote her every week you were away.
I wrote. Not every week...
She said you told her in every letter how much you loved her, how you wanted to marry her, have children with her...
I never said any of that!
I found them, pard, and read them myself, right after she did it!
Okay, I wrote those things... and yeah, I had big thoughts of getting together with your mom... but when she hit me with being pregnant, I saw who she was. I'd had quiff lay that shit on me before!
What did you call her? What did I hear you call her, you son of a bitch?
I knew you'd make it! Where's your girl? Didn't she come?
Naw. That's over with.
Daddy!
He ain't our daddy!
Mama said you was hit by a train!
Blooey!
That's a maiden name.
You got a maiden name, Daddy?
It's bona fide!
He's a suitor!
She's at the five and dime.
Buyin' nipples!
Languishing! Goddamn campaign is languishing! We need a shot inna arm! Hear me, boys? Inna goddamn ARM! Election held tomorra, that sonofabitch Stokes would win it in a walk!
Well he's the reform candidate, Daddy.
...Yeah?
Well people like that reform. Maybe we should get us some.
I signed that bill! I signed a dozen a those aggiculture bills! Everyone knows I'm a friend a the fahmuh! What do I gotta do, start diddlin' livestock?!
We cain't do that, Daddy, we might offend our constichency.
We ain't got a constichency! Stokes got a constichency!
Holymoly. These boys're a hit!
But Pappy, they's intergrated.
Well I guess folks don't mind they's integrated.
Now what can I do you for, Mister French?
How can I lay hold a the Soggy Bottom Boys?
Soggy Bottom Boys  I don't precisely recollect, uh 
They cut a record in here, few days ago, oldtimey harmony thing with a guitar Accumpaccumpuh
Oh I remember 'em, colored fellas I believe, swell bunch a boys, sung into yon can and skedaddled.
Well that record has just gone through the goddamn roof! They're playin' it as far away as Mobile! The whole damn state's goin' ape!
It was a powerful air.
Hot damn, we gotta find those boys! Sign 'em to a big fat contract! Hell's bells, Mr. Lunn, if we don't the goddamn competition will!
Oh mercy, yes. You gotta beat that competition.
Who's the honcho around here?
I am. Hur you?
Well sir, my name is Jordan Rivers and these here are the Soggy Bottom Boys outta Cottonelia Mississippi Songs of Salvation to Salve the Soul. We hear you pay good money to sing into a can.
Well that all depends. You boys do Negro songs?
Sir, we are Negroes. All except our acump uh, companyaccompluh uh, the fella that plays the guitar.
Well, I don't record Negro songs. I'm lookin' for some ol'timey material. Why, people just can't get enough of it since we started broadcastin' the 'Pappy O'Daniel Flour Hour', so thanks for stoppin' by, but
Sir, the Soggy Bottom Boys been steeped in ol'timey material. Heck, you're silly with it, aintcha boys?
Hot damn, boy, I almost believe you did sell your soul to the devil!
Boys, that was some mighty fine pickin' and singin'. You just sign these papers and I'll give you ten dollars apiece.
Okay sir, but Mert and Aloysius'll have to scratch Xes  only four of us can write.
Two weeks! That don't do me no good!
Nearest Ford auto man's Bristol.
Hold on there  I don't want this pomade, I want Dapper Dan.
I don't carry Dapper Dan. I carry Fop.
No! I don't want Fop! Goddamnit  I use Dapper Dan!
Watch your language, young fellow, this is a public market. Now, if you want Dapper Dan I can order it for you, have it in a couple of weeks.
Well, ain't this place a geographical odditytwo weeks from everywhere! Forget it! Just the dozen hairnets!
Wait a minute! Who elected you leader a this outfit?
Well, Pete, I just figured it should be the one with capacity for abstract thought. But if that ain't the consensus view, hell, let's put her to a vote!
Suits me! I'm votin' for yours truly!
Well I'm votin' for yours truly too!
Pete's cousin turned us in for the bounty!
The hell you say! Wash is kin!
YOU LOUSY YELLABELLIED LOWDOWN SKUNKS
Now hold on, Pete, we gotta speak with one voice here  CAREFUL WITH THAT FIRE NOW, BOYS!
Huh?! They dam that river on the 21st. Today's the 17th!
Don't I know it.
We got but four days to get to that treasure! After that, it'll be at the bottom of a lake!
How's this a plan? How're we gonna get a car?
Sell that. I figured it could only have painful associations for Wash.
To Washington Bartholomew Hogwallop. From his loving Cora. AyMore Fie dellis.
It was in his bureau.
Who was fixing to betray us!
You didn't know that at the time!
So I borrowed it till I did know!
That don't make no sense!
Pete, it's a fool looks for logic in the chambers of the human heart. What the hell's that singing?
Well, I'll be a sonofabitch. Delmar's been saved!
Pete, don't be ignorant
The preacher said it absolved us.
For him, not for the law! I'm surprised at you, Pete. Hell, I gave you credit for more brains than Delmar.
Hell, at least it woulda washed away the stink of that pomade.
Join you two ignorant fools in a ridiculous superstition? Thank you anyway. And I like the smell of my hair treatment  the pleasing odor is half the point.
A million dollars.
Million point two.
An' all my meals for free...
What about you, Delmar? What're you gonna do with your share a that dough?
Me? Oh, I didn't have no plan. Still don't, really.
Well that hardly sounds like you...
The hell it ain't square one! Ain't no one gonna pick up three filthy unshaved hitchhikers, and one of 'em a knowitall that can't keep his trap shut!
Pete, the personal rancor reflected in that remark I don't intend to dignify with comment, but I would like to address your general attitude of hopeless negativism. Consider the lilies a the goddamn field, orhell! take a look at Delmar here as your paradigm a hope.
Itta Bena, now, uh, that would be...
Isn't it, uh...
...Nah, that ain't right... I'm thinkin' of...
...I believe, unless I'm very much mistaken  see, we've been away for several years, uh...
It was a moment a weakness!
Quitcha babblin' Pete  time to skedaddle.
They lured me out for a bathe, then they dunked me'n trussed me up like a hog and turned me in for the bounty.
I shoulda guessed it  typical womanly behavior. Just lucky we left before they came for us.
It's awful white of ya to take it like that, Everett. I feel wretched, spoilin' yer play for a million dollars'n point two. It's been eatin' at my guts.
Aw, that's all right.
Pete, uh, I don't want ya to beat yourself up about this thing...
I cain't help it, but that's a wonderful thing to say!
Well, but Pete...
Fact of the matter  there never was!
But... but...
But...
Damnit, I just hadda bust out! My wife wrote me she was gettin' married! I gotta stop it!
...No treasure... I had two weeks left on my sentence...
I couldn't wait two weeks! She's gettin' married tomorra!
...With my added time for the escape, I don't get out now 'til 1987... I'll be eightyfour years old.
Pete... I do apologize.
Eightyfour years old! I'll be gummin' pabyoulum!
Well, it's a invitationonly affair; we'll have to sneak in through the service entrance
Wait a minute  who elected you leader a this outfit? Since we been followin' your lead we got nothin' but trouble! I gotten this close to bein' strung up, n'consumed in a fire, 'n whipped no end, 'n sunstroked, 'n soggied 
This is crazy. No one's ever gonna believe we're a real band.
No, this is gonna work! I just gotta get close enough to talk to her. Takin' off with us is got a lot more future in it than marrying a guy named Waldrip. I'm goddamn bona fide. I've got the answers!
We prayed to God and he pitied us!
It just never fails; once again you two hayseeds are showin' how much you want for innalect. There's a perfectly scientific explanation for what just happened 
That ain't the tune you were singin' back there at the gallows!
Well any human being will cast about in a moment of stress. No, the fact is, they're flooding this valley so they can hydroelectric up the whole durned state...
That ain't your daddy, Alvinelle. Your daddy was hit by a train.
Now Penny, stop that!
No  you stop it! Vernon here's got a job. Vernon's got prospects. He's bona fide! What're you?
I'll tell you what I am  I'm the paterfamilias! You can't marry him!
I can and I am and I will  tomorrow! I gotta think about the little Wharvey gals! They look to me for answers! Vernon can s'port 'em and buy 'em lessons on the clarinet! The only good thing you ever did for the gals was get his by that train!
...Why you... lyin,... unconstant... succubus!
McGill. No, the marriage'll take place as planned.
Just a little change of cast. Me and the little lady are gonna pick up the pieces'n retie the knot, mixaphorically speakin'. You boys're invited, of course. Hell, you're best men! Already got the rings.
Where's your ring, honey?
I ain't worn it since our divorce came through. It must still be in the rolltop in the old cabin. Never thought I'd need it; Vernon bought one encrusted with jewels.
Hell, now's the time to buy it off him cheap.
We ain't gettin' married with his ring! You said you'd changed!
Aw, honey, our ring is just a old pewter thing 
Ain't gonna be no weddin'.
It's just a symbol, honey 
No weddin'.
All's well that ends well, as the poet says.
That's right, honey.
But I don't mind telling you, I'm awful pleased my adventuring days is at an end...
...Time for this old boy to enjoy some repose.
That's good, honey.
And you were right about that ring. Any other weddin' band would not do. But thishere was foreordained, honey; fate was asmilin' on me, and ya have to have confidence 
That's not my ring.
 in the gods  Huh?
That's not my ring.
Not your...
That's one of Aunt Hurlene's.
You said it was in the rolltop desk!
I said I thought it was in the rolltop desk.
You said 
Or, it might a been under the mattress.
You 
Or in my chiffonier. I don't know.
Well, I'm sorry honey 
Well, we need that ring.
Well now honey, that ring is at the bottom of a pretty durned big lake.
Uhhuh.
A 9,000hectacre lake, honey.
I don't care if it's ninety thousand.
Yes, but honey 
That wasn't my doing...
I counted to three, honey.
Well sure, honey, but...
Finest governor we've ever had in M'sippi.
In any state.
Oh Lord yes, any parish'r precinct; I was makin' the larger point.
Them straw polls is ugly.
Stokes is pullin' ah pants down.
Gonna pluck us off the tit.
Pappy gonna be sittin' there pants down and Stokes at the table soppin' up the gravy.
Latch right on to that tit.
Wipin' little circles with his bread.
Suckin' away.
Well, it's a wellrun campaign, midget'n broom'n whatnot.
Devil his due.
Helluva awgazation.
Ass right.
Reason why he's pullin' ah pants down.
Gonna paddle ah little beehind.
Ain't gonna paddle it; he's gonna kick it real hard.
No, I believe he's agonna paddle it.
Well now, I don't believe assa property scription.
Well, that's how I characterize it.
Well, I believe it's mawva kickin' sichation.
Pullin' ah pants down...
Wipin' little circles with his bread...
Helluva idea.
Cain't beat 'em, join 'em.
Have him join us, run our campaign 'stead a that pencilneck's.
Enticements a power, wealth, settera.
No one says no to Pappy O'Daniel.
Oh gracious no. Not with his blandishments.
Powas p'suasion.
Vernon Waldrip.
Vernon T. Waldrip.
Pappy O'Daniel be laughing' then.
Not out the other side his face, though.
Oh no, no, just the reg'la side 
We ain't oneatatimin' here, we mass communicatin'!
Oh, yes, assa parful new force.
I'm just makin' a point, you stupid sonofabitch!
Okay, Pappy.
Y'ignorant slopeshouldered sack a guts! Why we'd look like a buncha satchelass JohnnieComeLatelies braggin' on our own midget! Don't matter how stumpy! And that's the goddamn problem right there  people think this Stokes got fresh ideas, he's oh coorant and we the past.
Problem a p'seption.
I'm sayin' we har this man away.
Assa good idea, Pappy.
What's his name again?
Campaign manager? Waldrip.
You don't know where his goddamn folks from; you speakin' outcha asshole.
Well now Pappy I wouldn't put it that strong...
How'd he know about the treasure?
Don't know, Delmarthough the blind are reputed to possess sensitivities compensatin' for their lack of sight, even to the point of developing para normal psychic powers. Now clearly, seein' the future would fall neatly into that kataggery. It's not so surprising, then, if an organism deprived of earthly vision
What do we do now, Everett?
Fire! I hate fire!
NOW HOLD ON, BOYSAINTCHA EVER HEARD OF A NEGOTIATION? MAYBE WE CAN TALK THIS THING OUT!
Yeah, let's negotiate 'em, Everett.
...but try getting a decent hair jelly.
Gopher, Everett?
And no transmission belt for two weeks neither.
Well that's it boys, I been redeemed! The preacher warshed away all my sins and transgressions. It's the straightandnarrow from here on out and heaven everlasting's my reward!
Delmar what the hell are you talking about?  We got bigger fish to fry
Preacher said my sins are warshed away, including that Piggly Wiggly I knocked over in Yazoo!
I thought you said you were innocent a those charges.
Well I was lyin'  and I'm proud to say that that sin's been warshed away too! Neither God nor man's got nothin' on me now! Come on in, boys, the water's fine!
But there were witnesses, saw us redeemed!
That's not the issue, Delmar. Even if it did put you square with the Lord, the State of Mississippi is more hardnosed.
You should a joined us, Everett. It couldn't a hurt none.
Baptism. You two are just dumber'n a bag of hammers. Well, I guess you're my cross to bear
Pull over, Everett  let's give that colored boy a lift.
This ain't no laughin' matter, Everett.
What'd the devil give you for your soul, Tommy?
Five... hunnert... thousand... each.
Four hundred, Delmar.
Izzat right?
What're you gonna do with your share of the treasure, Pete?
Damn! We gotta skedaddle!
I left my pomade in that car! Maybe I can creep up!
Don't be a fool, Everett, we gotta R UNOFFT, but pronto!
Where's Tommy?
Yeah, look at me.
Now you may call it an unreasoning optimism. You may call it obtuse. But the plain fact is we still have... close to... close to...
Now wuddya suppose is eatin' George?
Well ya know, Delmar, they say that with a thrillseekin' personality, what goes up must come down. Top of the world one minute, haunted by megrims the next. Yep, it's like our friend George is a alley cat and his own damn humors're swingin' him by the tail. But don't worry, Delmar; he'll be back on top again. I don't think we've heard the last of George Nelson.
Whuhh...
Oh sweet Lord, Everett, looka this!
What on earth is goin' on here! What's got into you, Delmar!
Caintcha see it Everett! Them sigh reens did this to Pete! They loved him up an' turned him into a horney toad!
...I'm not sure that's Pete.
Course it's Pete! Look at 'im!
You can't display a toad in a fine restaurant like this! Why, the good folks here'd go right off their feed!
I just don't think it's right, keepin' him under wraps like we's ashamed of him.
Well if that is Pete I am ashamed of him. The way I see it he got what he deserved  fornicating with some whore a Babylon. These things
Uh, we uh
We're adventurers, sir, currently pursuin' a certain opportunity but open to others as well.
Pete have a brother?
Not that I'm aware.
Deceitful! Twofaced! SheWoman! Never trust a female, Delmar! Remember that one simple precept and your time with me will not have been ill spent!
Okay, Everett.
Hit by a train! Truth means nothin' to Woman, Delmar. Triumph a the subjective! You ever been with a woman?
Well, uh, I  I gotta get the family farm back before I can start thinkin' about that.
Well that's right! If then! Believe me, Delmar, Woman is the most fiendish instrument of torture ever devised to bedevil the days a man!
Everett, I never figured you for a paterfamilias.
Ohhoho yes, I've spread my seed. And you see what it, uh... what it's earned me... Now what in the...
So  where's all the money from your armoredcar job?
I never knocked over any armored car. I was sent up for practicing law without a license.
Huh. I guess they'll tack on fifty years for me too.
Boys, we was chained together. I hadda tell ya somethin'. Bustin' out alone was not a option!
It's Tommy! They got Tommy!
Oh my God!
'N turned into a frog 
He was never turned into a frog!
Scuse me... scuse me... we're the next act...
Everett, my beard itches.
What sat mean exactly, Everett?
Well, you'n me'n Pete'n Tommy are gonna be the power behind the throne so to speak.
Oh, okay.
I guess Vernon T. Waldrip is gonna be goin' on relief. Maybe I'll be able to throw a little patronage his way, get the man a job diggin' ditches or rounding up stray dogs.
Is the marriage off then, Miz Wharvey?
We'll go fetch it with ya, Everett.
Honey, it's just  Shutup, Delmar  it's just 
A miracle! It was a miracle!
Aw, don't be ignorant, Delmar. I told you they was gonna flood this valley.
That ain't it!
'N I'm Delmar O'Donnell.
How ya been, Wash? Been what, twelve, thirteen year'n?
We ain't gonna make it walkin'.
Gopher, Everett?
You got light fingers, Everett. Gopher?
You mis'able little sneak thief...
That's right!
That's right! We ain't really Negroes!
All except fer our acumpuhnust!
Why don't we bed down out here tonight?
Yeah, it stinks in that ol' barn.
Visit those foreclosin' sonofaguns down at the Indianola Savings and Loan and slap that cash down on the barrelhead and buy back the family farm. Hell, you ain't no kind of man if you ain't got land.
What about you, Everett? What'd you have in mind when you stoled it in the first place?
...Pete?
Do not seek the treasure!
We didn't abandon you, Pete, we just thought you was a toad.
No, they never did turn me into a toad.
Well that was our mistake then. And then we was beat up by a bible salesman and banished from Woolworth's. I don't know if it's the one branch or all of 'em.
Well I  I ain't had it easy either, boys. Uh, frankly, I  well I spilled my guts about the treasure.
Huh?!
Awful sorry I betrayed you fellas; must be my Hogwallop blood.
I'm sorry we got you into this, Tommy.
Good Lord, what do we do?
End of the road, boys. It's had its twists and turns 
Waitaminute 
 but now it deposits you here.
Waitaminute 
You have eluded fate  and eluded me  for the last time. Tie their hands, boys.
You can't do this 
Didn't know you'd be bringin' a friend. Well, he'll have to wait his turn 
Hang on there 
 and share one of your graves.
You can't do this  we just been pardoned! By the Governer himself!
It ain't the law!
The law. Well the law is a human institution.
I flatter myself that such is the case; in my line of work it's plumb necessary. The one thing you don't want is air in the conversation.
Once again we find ourselves in agreement. What kind of work do you do, Big Dan?
Sales, Mr. McGill, sales! And what do I sell? The Truth! Ever' blessed word of it, from Genesee on down to Revelations! That's right, the word of God, which let me add there is damn good money in during these days of woe and want! Folks're lookin' for answers and Big Dan Teague sells the only book that's got 'em! What do you do  you and your tonguetied friend?
Thankee boys for throwin' in that fricasee. I'm a man a large appetite and even with lunch under my belt I was feeling a mite peckish.
Our pleasure, Big Dan.
And thank you as well for that conversational hiatus; I generally refrain from speech while engaged in gustation. There are those who attempt both at the same time but I find it course and vulgar. Now where were we?
I like to think that I'm a pretty astute observer of the human scene.
No doubt, brother  I figured as much back there in the restaurant. That's why I invited you out here for this advanced tutorial.
Mrs. Rogers? I'm Dwight Campbell, with Neighborly Life Insurance. I'm looking for Betty Sizemore.
I wish I could help you, but I can't.
Aren't they precious? Ma'am, she has a substantial death benefit coming to her from the tragic loss of her husband. Does she have any relatives in the area?
No. Well, her grandparents are down in Oklahoma, but that's it...
I see. And are you in touch with Mrs. Sizemore?
No. But I'm taping her show every day so she can watch it when she comes back.
Her show?
"A Reason to Love."
I see. Did Chloe testify?
I don't think she will. She's a slut, but I just don't think she's that mean. Jasmine'll bring her around...
Jasmine... Do you have yesterday's show on tape, by any chance?
Yeah?
Mr. Campbell?
Huh?
Is this Neighborly Life Insurance?
Oh, umm, yes, this is Dwight Campbell.
It's Sue Ann Rogers, Betty Sizemore's friend? I heard from her.
SHUT UP! Shut the fuck up, both of you, before I kill you!
I'm the one who watched the show... I was...
Did Chloe crack?
Totally. She came apart like a house of cards. They dropped the charges...
Goddamn... how 'bout Jasmine?
She's a lesbian.
You lie, motherfucker...
I swear to God!
What do you think my father would do if I told him I didn't want to be a lawyer anymore?
Probably the same thing my mom would do if I got engaged... have a heart attack.
So how's it going with your new roomie? What's her name?
Betty. It's O.K. except I'm worn out. We spent all weekend looking for her doctorboy. How can a big time heart guy leave no trace of himself?
So tell her to settle for the old one in Orange County.
She's gonna have to 'cause I'm out of ideas.
Maybe we're suing him for malpractice. What's his name again?
David Ravell.
God, that sounds so familiar. Ravell, Ravell... where's he out of?
I'm not sure now. She said he used to be over at Loma Vista. I never heard of it.
Loma Vista? You mean like the guy on "A Reason to Love?"
Hey... Is Betty still trying to find that soap opera guy?
Oh, yeah... Man, I'd love to find that actor just to see the look on her face, watch her bubble burst in midair.
You're wastin' your time, Roy.
Look Joyce, I need your key to the files, not advice, okay? This is a complex case.
Nothin' complex about it. Del's dead, Betty's gone. She's probably dead, too.
You'd like that wouldn't you? You've hated Betty since you were in Pep Squad together...
No... before that.
Ahh, I hate this town! Places like this just make you small... I should have never come back here after college.
Blah  blah  blah... Hurry up, will ya, I got a date tonight...
I don't know what you think you'll find, anyway.
Names, a phone number, something... Listen, Ballard told me that the guy who brought the missing car down from Detroit was murdered, but do you see him doing anything about it? If Ballard wasn't such a stubborn ass, I wouldn't have to be breaking in here...
What did you say?
The driver was killed. I think there's a connection 
No, about... Are you talking about Duane Cooley?
Yeah. Why, you know him?
Know him? We were gonna get married! He was gonna leave his wife for me! Fuck!!...
And she always had such spirit! But, after her mother died...
Would you say she was ambitious?
Oh, there's no tellin' what that girl could've accomplished, and she never had it easy. Never really had a childhood... caring for her father, going to school.
You've got to be missing a piece of your soul to kill someone. That's not our Betty...
...why do you think you have to be missing a piece of your soul to kill somebody?
Because it ain't natural, young man.
What are you talking about? Killing's totally natural. It's dying that isn't natural...
...what kinda car's Jasmine drive?
Ahh, Mercedes, I think. Black.
Yeah? The sport utility?
Uhhuh.
Damn, that's sweet... She really that goodlooking in person?
Better.
Oh fuck...
Hey, can you sneak me on the lot?
Sure.
Alright, I admit it, you had me there. You're better than most of them, anyway... do you have a headshot?
No, wait... what happened next, Betty?
Are you sure you want to encourage this? No, you're right, let's have some fun. So, what did happened next, "Betty"?
Funny, that's just what I was thinking...
I can't tell you how much it hurts me to hear that you married him.
Right, uhh... I feel terrible about this, we have a prior engagement at another party. But... I'd be honored if you'd come.
Yeah, bring your friend along. I'm sure you got a lot of catching up to do...
She makes me stretch! I got inside my character last night like I haven't done in six years on "Reason". It was a totally rejuvenating experience.
I know, George, I was there. I'm not denying that she's good.
She's even taken a job as a nurse! David Ravell's getting boring, Lyla.
We know that...
Can I have an evil twin?
No, George, we've already done that with Lonnie. The blind one last year, remember?
Oh, of course. Who can forget the Emmy? Then let me bring Betty to the set and see what happens.
I don't know, George...
I'll tell the cast ahead of time. What do you say?
I'll think about it.
It'll be like live television! Let's live on the edge a little. You and I can break the mold here!
I said I'll think about it.
Fine, but promise me one thing. If we use her, I want to direct those episodes. She's my discovery.
Actually, she was my discovery... just like you.
Hmm?
"Would you like ground pepper on that salad, Ms. Branch?" Remember?
...yeah.
Betty, I thought this would be the best way. You know, throw you into it...
What the hell's going on?
If you need a minute, that's okay. But I thought you'd want to 
Is there a problem, George?
No! No problem, there is no... What is the problem? Just do that... thing... you do! Come on! You drove me nuts with this for three days, now do it!
All right, everybody! That's ten minutes!
No! Let me try this!
Let me try this, goddamnit! SHE'S BEEN DOING IT ALL WEEK, SHE CAN DO IT NOW!
I SAID FORGET IT!
This story is beyond belief, which is perfect for us. It's free advertising and it's gonna run for months.
I don't think she can do it. You saw what happened.
You fucked it up. Who wouldn't freeze in those circumstances? And I don't care what her problems are. She wouldn't be the first one in that cast with problems. We have nothing to lose by making her an offer.
What about me? Don't you wanna know how I feel about it? I'm the one who...
Why would I give a shit how you feel. And I got news for you. I loved your 'icy water' idea the other day... I'm toying with the idea of killing David Ravell off in a boating accident.
That's not a bad idea. How many episodes before he comes back?
Jesus, don't do that! If it gets around that you fired me, I'll never land a pilot.
Then do as you're told. Get her back.
What'd you get her?
Huh? Oh, umm, a car. So, to a successful transaction...
Isn't that the point?
Yeah, well, I don't have time to screw around. I got buyers in Dallas, Houston and Vegas who are ready to snap this stuff up.
Seems like a nice place.
It is, if you like idiots...
Really?
You better believe it.
Jesus Christ!
He's waiting...
Okay, uh... the, umm, Injuns're stupid.
"Injuns?"
...and how long did she work here?
Oh, five years, give or take.
Hmm... you two in high school together?
Aren't you a sweetheart... no, not quite. Anyway, she's been with us awhile.
But she wanted more out of life, right?
No... she just wanted something outta life. Anything. And with Del, she wasn't getting nothing. That's her husband, Del. I'm sorry about what happened and all, but that's the way I feel about all of this...
I see. May I?
If it helps bring her back, be my guest...
Thank you for your cooperation. Just one more thing... did she ever talk about getting rich?
...who doesn't?
This is Betty at twelve.
Very graceful. Perfect form.
Betty was a lovely child.
I don't like talking bad about the dead, but now that he's gone I can tell you she put up with things in that marriage I wouldn't have. And yes, she, of all people, was the one who defended him. And that's why what that sheriff said makes me so angry.
What do you mean?
If anyone had paid to have that husband of hers killed, it would have been me.
Mrs. Blaine? I can tell you right now, without a doubt, that your granddaughter is alive, and did not kill Del Sizemore.
Bourbon, little water, thank you.
Beer, please.
Hey... you got a fine one right here!
Wesley... Your wife's a very lovely woman. Have I seen her before?
Relax, we brought the cash.
I'm just curious. Can't you give me an example?
No, that's ignorant. They just don't know any better.
That's what I thought. You better give me another example.
That's right.
Stupid is trying to sell it to other people who are, by their very nature, untrustworthy.
That is so right.
Stupid is calling people in Kansas City who are affiliated with the rightful owners of the thing you stole, and trying to sell it to them. Right Wesley?
Now, that's really stupid.
So you see, we have totally different ideas of what's stupid and what's not. Don't we?
You know, a hundred and fifty years ago you'd have been scalped for that remark about Native Americans. Right here where your house is  you'd have been scalped.
Hell of a way to die.
It wasn't always fatal, Wesley. We could scalp Del right now, and he'd be plenty alive to tell us how it feels.
Hold still, Del, we're just talking here... Then you grab a big handful of hair and pull as you cut. It's amazing how easily the scalp comes off.
A mark, huh?
I'm all for them owning casinos, getting rich off the white man's greed. It's a beautiful piece of irony, isn't it, Wesley?
IT SURE IS!!
Are you out of your mind? You scalped him!
You told me how to do it!
That was to get him to talk! Get rid of that thing, will you?
This is great  just great! Now we don't know where the goddamn stuff is.
He told us it's in the Buick.
We don't know which Buick, do we?
Well, why'd you shoot him?
I had to shoot him! It was the only decent thing to do.
I still don't understand how you knew Del was telling the truth.
I saw his soul Wesley. He was face to face with his God, and no one lies in that situation. But your Geronimo act rattled me, and I abandoned my instincts. Never abandon you instincts.
I didn't. You gave me a look!
What 'look'?
That one look you got! I thought you were done, so I took him out...
I wasn't done, I was just sick of hearing him whine. And you didn't take him out, you scalped him. Christ, I almost puked, did I tell you that?
Well, why'd you have to tell that Indian story?
What the hell does that mean? If I'd told a Ty Cobb story would you have clubbed him to death with a bat?
It's not here. Let's go.
You just gonna leave these cars sitting here like this?
Why not, it'll confuse 'em... gotta do something, now that you fucked it up.
I wanted to make a statement.
Let me tell you something. In our business you can't put food on the table if your phone doesn't ring. The guys who get the calls are good  not flashy, just good. They get in, they get out. Nobody knows a goddamn thing. Understand? Boom, boom, boom. Three in the head and you know they're dead.
...that's a good motto.
Fine, I'll get you a bumpersticker, but you better start believing it! It's the only statement you need to make.
Mmmm. Well, it was a piece of luck running into you, Duane. I thought I was gonna have to take Wesley out and hose him down. All he talks about is those Japanese gals.
I like 'em small. When you're inside a little Asian chick, it's like your dick is the axle that holds her body together.
We can live with that.
I'm a Yankee, myself. Massachusetts.
Del's dead, by the way. I sent him to the Great Beyond.
Actually, I scalped him, and then you killed him.
He's telling the truth. He doesn't know.
Should I kill him now?
Wait. Any last words, General Lee?
What the hell was that, another statement?
Well, no one ever spit in my face before. Especially some cracker fuck.
You have to rise above it. The professionals rise above that kind of thing...
So how do we know that car's still in Fair Oaks?
We don't. But a '97 Le Sabre'll be easy to find if it's here, town this size... He said he gave his wife some car as a gift, remember?
Maybe you don't appreciate the gravity of this situation. It's bad enough that we don't have what we came here for. It's worse that we don't know where it is. And now this. This was supposed to be my last job. I already put the deposit down on my boat. How can you eat at a time like this? I get nauseous just watching you...
I can eat because I know we didn't kidnap that woman. I can eat because they aren't looking for us. And I can eat 'cause I'm fucking hungry... ...relax. She's gonna end up on a milk carton and that's about it.
I hope you're right...
...I know I am. Let's just do what we gotta do here, and get the fuck gone.
So she gets rid of the asshole and is set for life in the same day.
You think so? Joyce says she's timid.
Joyce was screwing Del.
...among others.
I'd say that about torches her credibility, wouldn't you?
Yeah, well, if the wife's trying to sell it she'll fuck up. She's an amateur, just like Del was.
No, I see Betty as a Midwestern Stoic type. Ice water in her veins. A clear thinker. Probably a Swede or a Finn.
A 'Finn?' What is a Finn?
You should read more. Listen to me. I think this woman was waiting for a chance to do this, and we gave it to her. She kept to herself for years, living with a pompous asshole. Then she sees her opportunity, and BOOM!  she leaves that little mudpatch in the dust. These heartlanders can't figure it out, 'cause that's not their sweet little Betty. Hah! We've been tracking her for, what, three days and I already understand her better'n most the people in that shitty little burg.
Betty, Betty, Betty...
So what the fuck's a Finn?
Oh, for Chrissakes. It just means the kind of person who can eat shit for a long time without complaining, then cut their momma's throat and go dancing the same night.
Like... us?
No,... like a worthy adversary, Wesley. Like a very worthy adversary.
Wise beyond her years, I'm sure, and such poise, too. Very, very impressive...
Well, then, did you ever get any indication that she wanted to leave her husband?
Thas' it, thas' it... conquer that bitch. What time're they coming?
It's not an exact science, Wesley. He said they'll be here... My Houston contact has always been very reliable.
And then we're gonna do her right here. Right?
You're always so coarse... "Do her right here." Let's just see what happens, okay? "I wish that I could find a way; To speak my thoughts on Mother's Day. There are no words that quite express; My gratitude or happiness. A pleasant smile perhaps a kiss; I would not fail to give her this. I'd make her glad the whole day through; By sayin' 'Mother', I love you!' P.S. I wish I could say this to my mother's face, but I can't anymore."
Let's get out of here. We got another long drive ahead of us. ...the fuck where I do not know, but I know it's gonna be long.
Betty would never dress like that. She's not some trailer park slut!
Okay, thank you, goodbye... Keep in touch...
...She's got class, and poise. Lots of poise...
They said find it. Find her, find it. Finish the job you were paid to do.
Half.
What?
They paid us half. They still owe us half...
There it is again. That lousy attitude that got us here in the first place. That "make a statement," do an end zone dance, shake your ass and sue everybody in sight attitude that's dragging this whole country down the drain. They don't owe us shit, Wesley! WHEN YOU FINISH THE JOB, YOU GET PAID!! WE HAVEN'T FINISHED THE GODDAMN JOB!!
That woman could be in any one of four states. Four big states where the deer and the antelope play, Wesley! We're not in Rhode Island!
I know that.
AND TURN THAT FUCKING MUSIC OFF!
Do I deserve this? In the twilight of my career, do I deserve this? I don't think so! I've always tried to do what's right. I never took out anybody who didn't have it coming. I'm a professional! AND WHERE THE FUCK AM I? I'M IN PURGATORY!
Worse... you're in Texas.
Well, I should be in FLORIDA now! If Carl hadn't gone in to get those stones removed, you wouldn't be here and I'd be on my way to the Keys. On my boat, RELAXING WITH A GLASS OF PORT!! Reti red!
You don't look comfortable here. That's 'cause you don't like being the center of attention, do you? Nah. You're like me.
What the hell's the matter with you?
That was a really shitty thing to do.
I'm sick of looking at her mother fucking face.
What? What does she represent?! What could some cornbread white bitch from Kansas who's dragging our sorry asses up and down the Louisiana Purchase possibly mean to you?!! I'd just love to know...
I dunno... something. Why is she doing this to me? Why?...
I don't know, but when we find her she's gonna die for it.
How'd they describe her?
You know, blonde, thin, whatever...
Not so fast! Slower... 'blonde, thin', yes... Did they say she had style? A kind of grace or anything?
We should go.
We don't have time to look at a hole in the ground. We can make Vegas in four hours. This one's got to be her.
It's a very moving experience, trust me.
No.
One of the Seven Natural Wonders of the World.
No... be dark before we get there. You wanna see the Grand Canyon at night?
What difference does it make? She wasn't in Kansas City, or Houston, or Dallas. We went to every goddamn place Del mentioned and no Betty. So what the hell makes you think she's in Vegas? You think she's waiting for us with tassles on her titties? Vegas is too crass for Betty.
I said, 'No.' NO.
"When I grow up I'm going to become a nurse or a veterinarian. I always want to help people and value all life, be it animal, plant or mineral..." Does that sound like a goddamn showgirl to you?
Do you hear yourself right now...? Like a fucking madman...
Every American should see the Grand Canyon. Are you an American?
Yes, I am and we're not going. Act professional.
Well, guess what? I found Betty... where she's been, anyway.
Where? Where is she?
I'm not telling.
What?
I'm not telling 'til you straighten up. You been acting like fucking Jerry Lewis on me and this shit's gotta stop or you can forget about your Betty... I mean it.
This doesn't look like the kind of place Betty would go to.
Maybe she had to use the bathroom. She pees, doesn't she?!...
So you believed the bartender. Why?
Well... I think I saw her soul.
That's good. You're learning. But let me tell you why I know she was lying. First off, Betty would never fall for a soap star. It's beneath her.
I dunno, that lady sounded pretty sure...
No, no, Betty came here strictly for business, 'cause it's the biggest market for what she's selling. I should have known it all along. I'm kicking myself as I shave here. So, first thing we...
Wait, wait, wait a minute... that doesn't make sense.
What doesn't?
You gimme this bullshit Psychic Friends theory, you believe that dumbshit trucker, you believe this woman...
I never said that I believed...
No, you believed her, we drove all the way to L.A. so that means you trusted her that much... so why's the rest of her story suddenly so kooky? Huh?
'Cause I just don't buy it. Call it instinct. Call it 35 years of professional knowhow...
I call it 'nutty' as my shit after I eat Almond Roca...
You need to remember who you're talking to...
I need to get my goddamn head examined. You can't rule something out on a whim. Or because she's cute. I've been following your whims all across the U.S. of A. and now I'm tired! Me!
Wesley...
"It's beneath her..." She's a mother fucking housewife... nothing's beneath her!
Who's this?
A doctor on the show... why?
What in the... What the hell is this? You've been holding out on me. All this fucking time!
It just didn't fit her profile...
Fuck the profile! That's the same guy!!
She can't be here because of a... a soap opera. Not a soap opera. That'd make her...
...crazy! No shit, Shaft!! And you ain't far behind...
...but she's, no, Betty's smarter than that. She wouldn't be here for a...
I do not know how the fuck you lasted an hour in this job! Dragging our asses around with the answer to our prayers in your motherfucking jacket... a picture of that cunt right next to the...
Don't Don't you talk about Betty like that. I don't care who she ends up being, you never use that word again. Got it?
Man, you have got to get some therapy.
I said 'got it?'
...yeah, I got it. Come on, you're stretching out my vest...
You made your point... I was wrong.
You were right. Del wasn't lying.
Well, you were right about what that bartender said.
What do your instincts tell you to do now, kid?
Leave. Take this shit back to Detroit and get the rest of our money.
We could do that. I could be on my way to Florida, and you could go to Thailand and fuck your brains out.
...but that's not what we're gonna do, is it?
No... if we don't finish this job, how are we gonna look at ourselves in the mirror? This is it for me, Wesley, she's the last one. My instinct says I gotta see this through with her, and if there's one thing I've tried to teach you here 
It's to follow my instincts. And my instincts say get the fuck out of Dodge.
No, I said to follow 'my' instincts. Now, we go up there and conclude our business. Case closed.
Not her mouth... I've spent many long hours in a car with your face staring back at me. I've seen it painted on the horizon.
What's wrong with you?
...you can have the best damn running backs in the world, somebody's still gotta block for 'em.
You're a hundred percent right. They rely on what'shisname's arm too much...
If you ate at the Tip Top you did.
Oh, yes, with the coffee...
Yep, Betty pours a pretty mean cup.
I like this. I like doing business in the home. It's cozy... Who's birthday?
Ahh... my wife's.
All right gentlemen, let's get down to it. I need to know if you're for real.
If we're for real?
You don't exactly look like drug dealers.
We appreciate that. But you just poured me a drink, I'd like to enjoy your hospitality for a few minutes.
Fine. You got five...
It's a nice place you got here. Real comfortable. Sweet little town, Fair Oaks. You like it here?
Are you kidding me? What's to like?
What do you mean?
It's a small town, man. I never should have left Omaha. People here think small. They act small. They're a bunch of dumb fucks.
Could you give us an example?
Of what?
I'm asking you for an example of one of these dumb fucks being a dumb fuck.
I don't follow...
You're not a dumb fuck, are you, Del?
No...
I didn't think so. So, give me an example of a stupid person doing a stupid thing. Not being stupid, you're equipped to recognize it.
Are we gonna do business here, or not?
All right... lemme see... okay, new Burger King opens up. These assholes get excited and start lining up. Like it's some five star restaurant. The place is mobbed. Right?
Hmmmm. "Five Stars," huh? Is that stupid, Wesley?
You did not just say "Injuns," Del.
The Indians, Injuns, whatever. They're always drunk and doing stupid things.
Like what?
Driving their cars into trees... puking on the sidewalk... stupid shit!
Let's see... around here that would be Kiowa, Kickapoo or Osage, if I'm not mistaken.
I... I don't know...
Well, my idea of stupid is very different from yours. So here's how this is gonna work. Would you take your socks off, please?
My socks?
Oh, Jesus, please... Please, God.
...and put them in your mouth.
What part of Dixie are you from, Duane?
Georgia. In case I didn't tell you, it's cash only, gentlemen.
Here's Ghengis Kunt and The Demilitarized Zone. Get it? They're Korean, so they're pretty hot.
You know, it's interesting. The South lost the Civil War, but they still seem to get all the glory.
Huh?
Jeb Stuart, Stonewall Jackson, Jefferson Davis  they're all losers in my book.
The fuck you talking about?
Even Robert E. Lee was a loser.
He goin' crazy on us, or what?
Did you know the most brutal, inhumane prison of the entire war was in Georgia?
Really. And where was that, old man?
Andersonville. They did horrible things to men there...
What can I do for you, gentlemen?
How do you do, Mr. McCord. We're trying to locate a deranged fan of yours,... a Ms. Betty...
Deranged. That would be the right word.
That won't be necessary. She's staying with a Rosa something... Hernandez, Herrera. I know it's an 'H' sound... in Silverlake.
Thanks so much. You must get bothered by this kind of thing a lot.
More than you know. Is there anything else?
No, that should be more than 
Good.
Blake, I can handle that transplant!
We need someone with the right kind of experience, Lonnie.
Even if he's falling asleep on his feet?
Lonnie, it's a complex procedure. Why don't you observe?
I'm not some snotnosed resident fresh out of medical school, Blake.
No, you're not. You're a good doctor, Lonnie, but you're not David Ravell. I've made my decision. Now, if you'll excuse me...
What are you doing?
He has no heartbeat!
You're hurting him!!
I'm massaging his heart. I saw it done once.
ARE YOU CRAZY?!! STOP IT!!!
LISTEN TO ME! IF I DON'T DO THIS, HE'S DEAD!
You don't sound like you're from here.
I'm not. I just drove in from Kansas.
So why'd you come to L.A.?
I came for love. My fianc is here.
It's something I had to do. For David.
'David.' That's your guy. So, you staying with him?
No... I don't really know where he is yet. I'm at a hotel around the corner.
Man, that is love.
You can go get your stuff right now. I'll walk you down.
No, that's not, I couldn't...
Listen, when someone does the kind of thing you did, you gotta do something in return. So, you stay with me until you find your David and live happily ever after. Okay?
I got this apartment with a guy.
The one you were telling me about?
No, this one was worse... I had to have the place sprayed when he left. Twice... He was two guys before the last one  not counting a little office thing in there, which I'm trusting you with, 'cause if it gets out, I'm on the street...
It's lovely... I really like your aquarium.
Yeah, well, at least fish don't use your razor or pee on the seat...
Hmmm. Sounds like you've had a pretty tough go of it with men...
Oh, I dunno... but just once I wish I'd run into a guy who noticed the Koi before my tits.
Hey, Rosa... it's Betty. How do you get to this town called 'Tustin?' It's in Orange County...
Tustin? Take the Hollywood Freeway to the Five...
The Five?
Just look for the really crowded road and follow that.
Okay... oh, umm, would you mind if I borrowed some clothes?
Huh? Sure, look in my closet, take any dress you want! We're still on for tonight, right?
You made it! Hey, that looks great on you. 'S classy... So, how'd it go today? You find him?
Ummm... no, no. Different 'Ravell.'
You know, the more I think about it, this really isn't David's kind of place.
What are you talking about? This bar is packed with professional people! Everybody says if you're going to get married, this is the spot to meet someone... Luckily, I'm currently off men, so I've got the luxury of not giving a shit.
I know what you mean, I recently had some trouble with a man, a different man... and David's still getting over Leslie. His wife.
He has a wife?!
Had. She died in a car accident last year. She was decapitated.
God, that's awful!
It may not have been an accident. They never did find her head...
Her 'head'?! You're making this up...
No, no! Well, see, she was having an affair with a Russian diplomat who I believe was mixed up with the Mafia...
Jesus, I thought my love life was crazy...
...so, we'll hit the library first and fan out from there. They've got all the L.A. phone books, plus medical directories... We're not gonna let him hide from you any more, okay? I'm making this my personal mission.
David isn't hiding from me, I left him standing at the altar six years ago and now I'm...
Fuck the details, they're always to blame... Look, too many of these guys duck out on us, especially after they become doctors or lawyers. I see it at my company all day long! So I'm just gonna make sure you get your, you know, fairy tale ending or whatever... One of us should.
Rosa, I can't believe you're doing all this for me... thank you.
Hey, how 'bout a card for me? What is that? "Please call if you have any information on David Ravell." This is my phone number! How many of these have you given out?
How many men have I talked to?
Jesus! They're all gonna be calling me!
You said in L.A., anything goes.
I was talking about what you could wear!
Guess who I saw today.
Who?
Doctor David Ravell.
What? Where was he?!
ON TELEVISION!! Cut the shit, will you!
Either you're making a fool out of me because you get off on it, or you got serious problems. Which one is it?!
I have no idea what you're talking about.
I'M TALKING ABOUT DAVID RAVELL!!
Shhh! I heard you the first time.
I spent my weekend looking for someone who does  not  exist. I should have been here at the hospital with my brother, but I was with you.
If you didn't want to do it, you should have said so! Is this about gas money?
IT'S NOT ABOUT GAS MONEY!! You have a thing for an actor on a stupid white soap opera, and we searched all over town for his character! Not the actor  whose name is George, by the way. His character!
Why'd you help me in the first place?
I helped you because I'm an idiot! Ask my mother, I love it when people take advantage of me! I TRUSTED YOU!! I THOUGHT HE WAS REAL!
HE IS REAL!!
I'm not going back on our arrangement. My word is good, and my family owes you. But I think it's best for both of us if you get your own place as soon as you can.
Fine.
Don't worry, I'm looking... just taking a tiny break.
This is crazy. I come home, you go to your room. You go in the kitchen, I go to my room. It's stupid.
So what do you say? Can we be friends?
...okay.
What are those for?
Oh, it's a charity dinner. The money goes to a good cause, but I don't have anybody to go with...
Umm...
Looking for someone?
You never know who you'll see.
Were you with him this whole time?
Oh, God! You scared me! Yes...
You still in love?
Does he know you think he's real?
He is real.
Uhhuh... So, what'd you talk about?
Oh, my gosh, everything! My trip out here, what we've both been doing, you know...
No, I'm not sure I could begin to imagine... So, where'd you go?
To a party in the Hollywood Hills.
Was it a huge place? With a view of the whole world?
Yes. I'd never been in a place like that before.
I have, lots of times. My mother used to clean them. I used to piss in their pools.
This isn't fair, you know. Do you always get what you want?
No, almost never.
But, you're in love with someone who doesn't exist. You come here, you meet this guy, who should laugh in your face, and instead you leave with him! Betty, you are oneofakind...
Are you sure I can borrow this?
No, please. Go ahead, it's your funeral...
Rosa...
Well, what if this guy's just playing with you? What if he's lying about who he is?
You should have a little faith in people.
Does he ever talk about medicine? His patients, the hospital?
All the time. It's always "Loma Vista" this, "Loma Vista" that.
Rosa, so you've met David?
Sure did! And a funny thing, Betty, he introduced himself to me as George!
Oh, he does that. It's this silly game he plays. Half the people who know him call him George.
What are you doing?
I'm going back to... I need to... I don't know.
...this is your sweater, right?
Where are you going?
I have to leave now.
What? No, I'm not gonna let you just run out of here... You need to talk about what's going on...
You think I'm crazy, Rosa, but you don't know the half of it. My husband was, ahh...
Your husband?!
Yes, I had a husband and he was killed two weeks ago in my kitchen. I was right there...
What?! That you had something to do with it?
I don't know. I'm just starting to remember it now. I don't...
Yeah, but your running away isn't going to help you with all this...
There was blood everywhere, Rosa. I saw it, I think I watched the whole thing happen... Oh my God...
Okay, okay, look, ummm... Let's just talk a little first and you'll feel better, I promise.
These guys are here to help you, Betty.
I don't think so. Rosa, I didn't kill Del... they did.
I can't believe I remembered that, although I suppose I should. I wrote it... But that was seven years ago, and you're quoting it verbatim. I'm flattered... I think. Or frightened. What's your name?
Betty Sizemore. What do you mean you wrote it?
I'm Lyla Branch. I'm the Producer.
Well, David moved out here and started his residency. Then he met Leslie 
No, no, no. We know all that. What happened with you?
I married a car salesman.
She called you 'George,' George.
...did I win some contest?
What's the matter here?
I begged him to let me put that on!
He's a prick. Merle?... You're a prick.
So you're into "Reason," too? Finally, someone civilized! I'm Ellen, what can I get you?
Hi, I'm Betty. I'll take a Miller, if you got it...
Shut up, Merle... Williams.
Williams, Arizona. About halfway there, I guess.
If that little weasel ever walked in here I wouldn't serve him.
I'd slap his face.
I'd kick him in the nuts, if I thought he had any.
Where you headed, Betty?
Los Angeles, California.
And you called your friend, and she's telling you not to go? When I went to Europe my friends told me I was crazy.
Europe? The Europe? This is my first time out of Kansas.
I should call you Dorothy. When I left here I went straight to Italy. Everybody told me not to go. But I wanted to go to Rome ever since I saw Audrey Hepburn in "Roman Holiday," and goddamnit, I went.
Did you love it?
Sure I loved it! It was great.
Let me tell you something. I got groped by these Tunisian guys who thought I was a slut for wearing shorts, it was hotter than stink the whole time, and I got some kind of weird gum disease from the water. Plus, it ended my marriage 
That's horrible!
No, he was a toad. Even more of a toad than Merle... I just wear the ring to keep the flies away. Rome was the best thing I ever did, because I DID IT! And I swear to you, it changed me. I've been to Rome, Italy! I sat every morning at the Cafe Sistina and had my cappuccino, and watched the pilgrims walk to mass, and no one can ever take that away from me.
I left my husband two days ago.
Really?
I'm getting back with my exfianc. He proposed to me right around here, so I guess this is just sort of a sentimental stop...
Wait, I thought you said you'd never been outta Kansas...
Oh. I mean, except for that. Yep. I'm trading in a car dealer for a heart specialist, so that's pretty good...
Nice move. Cedars Sinai?
No. Loma Vista.
I s'pose his name's David Ravell.
How did you know?
What's his real name?
Dr. David Ravell.
You mean... George McCord, the actor?
No, I mean David Ravell. He's a surgeon.
Piss off, Merle. So how you gonna find him, Betty?
I'll go to the Hospital.
What if you can't find him? What if you get out there, and nothing's the way you thought it was gonna be?
Like Rome?
Worse.
You made out alright.
Yeah, but at least I knew Rome was gonna be there when I arrived...
Ellen, this is the biggest thing I've ever done, but I've gotta do it.
You take care of yourself then, Betty, and don't let anybody stop you...
To tell you the truth, I can't believe I've made it this far. It may not be Europe, but I just know there's something special out there for me...
Hi, Betty. You're looking good...
Thanks, Roy, you're sweet... a big liar, but sweet. I liked your editorial this morning...
Oh, appreciate it. I was trying to, ahh, give a sense of history to...
Hey, Betty. Are you okay?
I'm great, good, content. What happened to your arm, Roy?
Oh, nothing, it's fine. I just need to keep it wrapped for a few...
Make sure it's elevated...
Uhhuh.
You want me to make you a sling? It's no problem...
What're you doing here, Roy?
Well, I was worried about you and I wanted to make sure you were alright... and I guess I was sort of hoping I could ask you about what happened...
Oh, that... Sure, I saw the whole thing. It was disgusting!
My God... did you get a look at who did it?
Yes.
You did? Was it anyone that you...?
It was Chloe...
Betty! Boy, am I glad to see you!
Roy! What are you doing here?
You're in serious danger!
Ahh, look, right now's not very...
I woulda' been here sooner, but Ballard put me in jail. He still thinks you had Del scalped.
Have you checked the trunk of that car you're driving, Betty? I think there might be...
It's not really a good time, guys...
So, call me when you 
Whoa, whoa, whoa! Hang on a second there, baby. Why do you need one of the new Buicks?
Oh, you're there. You sound out of breath.
I ran back in to get the phone.
I don't need one, but it's kind of a special night, and 
What's so special about it?
What was that?
Nothing... it's, ahh, busy here. Look, you don't need a LeSabre to go out with Sue Ann. Take the blue Corsica. I'll see you when I get home.
Sure you don't want any salad?
No, I do not want any goddamn... what was all that shit on the phone about the new Buicks?
I told you. Sue Ann was gonna take me out tonight, but...
She's not comfortable in a Corsica? 'S got air and leather...
I took the blue Corsica, Del. Relax.
All right, then. Actually, I'm glad you're going out. I got something going on tonight. Some serious clients, with real potential.
...like the water purifiers?
What?
Or the vitamins? Or the...?
Hey, the FDA screwed me on that when they changed the law, and you know it! Anyway, 'least I try shit, still got some dreams left... you're a goddamn waitress, what do you got?
I got you, Del...
...well, then you ain't got much.
Oh, I know. So, who're these clients?
Couple 'a guys in from outta town. They want to see the new LeSabres.
And I don't need Sue Ann's fat ass around to fuck it up...
Just knock it off, 'kay? Anyhow, they're 97's, they're not even new.
They're new to us...
It's people with no lives watching other people's fake lives.
Yeah, I guess there's nothing like watching those tenpins fall, huh, Del?
That is a skill!
Well, are you gonna answer me? What'd you come here for?
I came for love...
You're not on that soap opera thing again, are you? 'Cause you know what that is?
It's people with no lives watching other people's fake lives.
That's right. So, if you know it, why are you in trouble?
I don't know.
You sure don't. Who do you think you are coming to Hollywood, anyway? You should remember where you came from. And who you really are.
...of course you do. You don't remember me?
I take it I should. I'm sorry.
We were engaged.
I beg your pardon?
But I'm the one who's sorry. Letting you go was the biggest mistake of my life. We were thirteen days away from getting married and... I just got scared. It's a mistake I've had to live with for six years. But it's behind me now... And I hope you can put it behind you. I've missed you... David.
That's very kind of you.
The day I left you I just drove and drove. I drove all day and all that night, and I didn't go anywhere. I just kept driving. I stopped at a little country church, and the pastor let me in, and I sat 
Oh, you mean Fred.
No, Del.
Right, Del. Del was one hot salesman. Of cars. He could talk anyone into anything.
You knew Del?!
Honey, I didn't want to tell you at the time, but Del and I go way back. We went to school together. In fact, he saved my life. Two more minutes in that icy water and I would have drowned. But Del jumped in and grabbed me. We fell out of touch eventually, but I still owe him one.
He never told me anything about... that's unbelievable!
I tried to tell myself it was for the best, that there was a reason behind it. But... Del?
There was no plan! I was just young and stupid and scared!
You never gave us a chance...
I know that. I can't tell you how many times I've said that to myself in those exact words.
Why do they keep calling you George?
I don't know. Why do you keep calling me George?
I guess we all did. You know, I didn't marry Leslie because I loved her. I married her to forget you...
Oh, David... I'm sorry I caused you that much pain.
Oh my God! What's Lonnie doing here?
You're late, Eric.
Lyla's very nice.
Yes, she is.
She told me I was charming and relentless, and would go far in this town. And she said that unlike the other charming, relentless people she knew, she liked me.
She's a good person to know. So where did you study again?
Carleton School of Nursing. Two semesters, but Del made me give it up...
Alright, okay... I think you broke the record for staying in character about three hours ago.
You told me that two hours ago.
I haven't been this happy since I was twelve years old.
What happened when you were twelve?
For Mother's Day, I used all my allowance that I'd been saving to take my mother to Kansas City. We got our nails done and had lunch at "Skies," a restaurant at the top of a building from where you can see the whole city. It was the last outing we took together. She died the following year.
Wow... You just gave me goosebumps, you know that? You make it all sound so real. Great improv...
I just want everything to be perfect between us.
I know. Listen, we need to take a time out here. Can we talk seriously for a minute?
Of course.
At last! I know how much you want this. You're gifted and extremely determined, but... it's not up to me.
I know. It's up to us.
I don't think your friend likes me.
She's a little jealous, I think. And confused when it comes to men... So where are we going?
Well, first I thought Patina, and then the Ivy, but then I thought of somewhere a little more romantic. Like my place.
You never mentioned a 'Stella' to me.
Didn't I?
No, I would have remembered that name. The only Stella I ever knew was a parrot. Was this before Leslie? Before us?...
I've never met anyone like you, Betty.
I know, that's why we were meant to be together...
No, I mean your dedication scares me...
It's easy to be dedicated, when you care about something...
Yeah, I felt that way, too, when I first started, but now... the hours, the repetition... it's not all glamour and mall openings anymore. Maybe I should've listened to my people and tried to make the crossover to nights earlier, I don't know... ...I just hope it's not too late for me. God! Listen to me, "Me, me, me." It's so easy to get caught up in the whole ego cycle of this business and make it all about yourself. Stop, right? That's it, no more about me tonight, I promise... Let's talk about you... what do you think about me? I'm kidding... Seriously, Betty, I'm doing all the talking here...
...but I love listening to you, so that's okay...
Thanks. But I'd like to hear what you're feeling...
Well, I just feel that life'll be much sweeter for you now with me around. I promise...
You know, I almost believe that... you're like a warm breeze that's suddenly blown into my life... I said that to Leslie, once, at her funeral, remember?...
I remember. You said it to her, but it was meant for me, wasn't it?
Yes... maybe it was.
Your lines are in the script, but you can ad lib.
Ad lib?
In fact, I want you to ad lib, that's the magic I'm after. I wanna give a whole new feel to the show.
David, I don't... Can we talk privately for a second?
Stop calling me David. We're on set, for Christ's sake, you don't have to call me David here.
Why are you doing this to me?
Why am I doing this to you? Isn't this what you wanted?
Well, I don't know what you had in mind, but I hope you're happy. I put myself on the line for you, my reputation, and you're making me look like an idiot.
What do you mean? What did I do to you...
Who put you up to this? Did my ex wife ask you to...?
David, please 
STOP CALLING ME THAT! MY NAME IS NOT DAVID, AND IF YOU REALLY DON'T KNOW THE DIFFERENCE, YOU'RE MORE FUCKED UP THAN I THOUGHT YOU WERE!
I'm sorry... Oh my gosh, are you George McCord?!
...What? What did you call me? George... McCord. You're my favorite actor on...
But I'm David... I mean, I'm not David, but she thinks I am! You heard her... Stop staring at me... I'm not crazy, she is!
Why are you screaming at me? I mean, what am I... why am I here? I don't...
You're doing this now? After all the... are you sick? Are you going to kill me now?
No, I... I'll leave. Forgive me if I caused you all any trouble... I just, I don't know how I... ...I'm sorry.
Oh. Of course... sorry.
My treat. You were saying... something about how stupid you've been?
Right... I was. I was an idiot, plain and simple, and I hope you can find it in your heart to forgive me. How's that?
Kinda like you'd been saying it since you got on the plane...
I have... did it sound that bad?
Mmmhmm. Listen, I forgive you, Mr. McCord...
George...
...George. I do. My best friend once said if you were any handsomer it would be a crime...
Thanks...
...it's too bad you're such an asshole. 'S the only thing that Del was ever right about.
Did you watch it yet?
Sure did. I'll tell you, if that man was any better looking it'd be a crime 'a some sort...
Yep. Hey, I got a surprise for tonight. We're going to the Starlite in style!
Oh, Betty 
I'll give you a hint. If you scrunch up your eyes a bit it looks just like a Jaguar...
Honey, I'm really sorry, I was gonna call you about tonight. Larry's got a lodge meeting. There's no way I can get a sitter this fast.
No... what about your sister?
I can't ask her again  Nathan, stop it! Jesse, don't take that, hit back!  I feel terrible, hon.
It's all right.
You sure? Maybe next week we could...
Uhhuh. No, we'll do it later. 'S only a birthday, right? I'll have another one next year...
Aahhh... So what color is it?
What?
The LeSabre!
Maroon. I stole it.
What?
He wasn't going to let us use it, so I just took it.
Oh, I wish we could just get in it and drive, and drive, and drive!
Yeah, me too.
Sorry, hon. Happy Birthday...
I gotta go make dinner.
Let me know if you need anything, okay?
Are you and Larry happy?
Oh, I dunno... enough, I s'pose.
Then you should treasure that... you gotta hold on to whatever you got that's any good, even if it's only a little bit.
All you been through... I ever tell you what a good friend you are?
All the time...
Well, you are.
Something bad happened to Del and me, didn't it?
Yeah, hon. Real bad. You just get some sleep, everything's gonna be fine.
Sue Ann, I'm sorry about all this, but I just know there's something special out there for me...
Halfway where? You've gotta come home. We've been worried sick about you. Are you alright?
Sue Ann, I thought you of all people would back me up on this, you know what Del's like. How did he take my note?
Betty, honey, listen to me. A man came by from Mutual Life Insurance. He says you've got money comin' to you from Del's policy. Del's life insurance policy  Are you with me?
What are you talking about?
Tell Del I'm sorry. I left so quick, but I need to do this.
Do what?
I gotta go.
Betty! Listen to me! Del is ...
Of course, I don't know every doctor who works here...
Dr. Ravell's the finest surgeon on the staff. You must know him. He's incredibly handsome, gentle, considerate. He's being sued for sexual assault right now, but  It's not true. He was set up.
Well, I certainly would have heard about that.
Of course, he's only here two days a week. He's also on staff over at Loma Vista.
...I don't think I know that hospital.
It's in a very pretty area that gets a lot of sun, has palm trees out front, mountains in the background...
Really? You've just described all of Southern California.
What you did yesterday was reckless at best. You are not an employee of this hospital! If that boy dies I don't even want to think of the lawsuit that'll follow. Are we communicating here?
Yes, ma'am.
Good. I'm prepared to offer you a job. You can help out in the pharmacy until your California certification and references arrive, but you are not to touch anyone. Is that totally clear? Fine...
You can start tomorrow. And don't say a word about this to anyone. Is that issue?
Umm... yes. Back home.
Alright. Oh, and one more thing about what you did yesterday... Well done.
Who are these idiots?
This is Roy Ostrey, he's a reporter. And this is Sheriff Ballard. We all went to Fair Oaks High together...
Oh, this is wonderful...
...I s'pose you did that so I could take my sweater off or something.
No, just stand there... lemme look at you a minute.
Do you know who I am?
...I... I know what you are.
Do you know why I'm here?
I've got a pretty good idea. You're here to kill me, so kill me. You want me to be afraid, but I'm not. I don't care who you are, or why you two killed my husband...
You really... didn't have anything to do with what Del was doing, did you?
I have no idea what he was mixed up in... it was always something.
So you weren't involved with him in his pathetic attempt to diversify? Were you mixed up in the drugs, Betty?
Drugs? God, no! I'm totally against drugs.
Damn, life is strange. I had you figured for this coldblooded, calculating bitch  Not that I didn't admire you for it.
...well, if you're not going to slit my throat, why'd you come up here?
...to see you.
...I never meet people like you. I'm a garbageman of the human condition. I deal with trash, mostly, people willing to trade any part of themselves for a few more minutes of their rotten lives. But you... you're different.
I am?
Sure. You could probably have any thing you wanted... somebody as beautiful and stylish as yourself, and you don't even realize it.
I'm appreciably older than you, but my health is good. I take care of myself, and I got some money socked away. You'd never have to work again, that's for sure. I'd treat you like a queen.
Umm, I don't think that...
Wait. Let me get this out. I like the symphony, walks in the rain, sunsets, animals and children. I read passionately, and I like to discuss things. I'm basically conservative, but flexible. I've been involved in the death of thirty two people, but I can live with that because the world is lighter by thirty two pieces of shit, excuse my language.
"Thirtytwo?"
Well, thirtythree, but I'm not counting Del, on account of you... so, what do you think? You probably feel I'm flattering myself to see us together.
I don't feel that, no. I just... I'm not really who you think I am.
No one is, honey. Here, listen to this... "If who I am and who I hope to be should meet one day, I know they will be friends." Now that's beautiful.
I wrote that when I was twelve... where'd you get that?!
I know. I borrowed it from your grandparents because I... I... it doesn't matter. Don't worry, they're fine... Look, I used to feel that same way, said practically those same words, sitting at night in a foxhole in Korea... I've chased you across the country, Betty, and I come to find out we're a lot more alike than you'd think.
I thought you were a garbageman of humanity, or something.
Yes, but I'd sort of like to put that behind me now...
That's my son! My son is dead!
I'm sorry.
You're sorry? YOU'RE THE REASON WE'RE HERE!
WAIT A SECOND! I AM NOT THE REASON YOU'RE HERE! I WAS MINDING MY OWN BUSINESS, LIVING A PERFECTLY BORING LIFE UNTIL YOU CAME ALONG!
If we went out that window right now we'd have a chance...
I better go check on them.
Wait, Betty... you still haven't answered me.
This is really awkward...
Ahh, it's too late, anyway. It's too late. Listen, I could shoot my way out, maybe take one of them with me... If you'd gimme my gun back.
I'd rather not...
Betty, I don't wanna shrivel up alone in some stinking prison. No way. I've got some professional pride. And I don't want anybody else to get the credit for taking me out.
...what're you saying?
When a Roman general knew a battle was lost, he'd throw himself on his sword.
Did... did you really come here because you love this guy?
Yes... Not the actor, though, the doctor. I think.
So all this... really was because of that soap opera? My son is dead because you came out here to be with that doctor? A fake doctor?
I wouldn't have put it quite that way, but...
Wesley didn't even want to come up here. He warned me, but I insisted... I have to ask you, Betty...are you crazy?
I don't think I am.
Uhh, no, we haven't picked a date yet... well, once he dumps her we will. He's out pricing banners... I don't expect him back.
"Banners?"
You know, flags and shit... he said "for a livelier look" or something.
Need something else?
No, I was just... How you doing?
Great. Good. Content...
Oh. How come?
I dunno. Job satisfaction, I guess... How's things at the Tip Top?
They're fine... you miss it?
You must be joking.
Hmm. So, Del get that car he sold you up and running yet?
Oh, yeah, he's got things up and running, alright...
'Kay, good. Bye, then...
Uhhuh. Anyway, I'm thinking Easter, 'cause I just fucking love pastels.
Yeah, it was great. Really put the whole idea of "church bake sales" in perspective...
You know, Elden, some people actually read more than just the Classifieds...
Why don't you go back to doing something you're good at... like that Lonelyhearts column? I'll take a refill there, Betty...
I thought you said the eggs weren't...
It's fine. Mind your own meal...
You should get the order you want.
And you should keep your nose out of another man's omelette... It's no big deal, Betty.
Why you always gotta embarrass me? I been eating lunch with you since grade school and you always gotta embarrass me!
They're just eggs, Elden, how embarrassing can eggs be?
...plenty
Who eats eggs for lunch, anyhow?
Mind your own business. You just said that shit so you could look at her a little longer, anyway...
Okay, let's go... I got nothing for the record yet.
Oww! My arm, careful!
Ahh, what'd you do now... fall off your bike again?
No, it's nothing, I... my piranha just mauled me a little when I layed their food out.
Good God... they're meat eaters, Roy, just drop the shit in there!
I can't... they prefer a more formal presentation. I don't usually go so close to the surface, but I was...
...you are so goddamn weird. Oh, and by the way, get the hell outta here!
No, Elden, I need to...
You need to get yourself gone from my crime scene. And leave Betty alone, she's...
She knows who killed Del. Elden, she said it was a woman.
It wasn't a woman.
Yes it was. Betty saw the whole thing! Your killer's name is Chloe...
I'm tellin' you it wasn't no woman, Roy!
Jesus...
You think a woman did that?!
So, you think you're gonna find his scalp hanging in some tepee?
They no longer live in tepees, Mr. College Graduate.
Did you send anyone out there?
You bet I did. I got a squad car on the way to the reservation right now.
Bad idea...
You just go write your little story, Roy. I'll handle the police work...
You better handle what's in this garbage can first.
I questioned Joyce about all this...
Yeah?
Seems she was pretty familiar with 'ol Del. On a regular basis, if you get my drift...
...and half the other guys in this town. Including you, I believe...
Junior year!
Anyway, so what?
So? ...Suppose Betty found out about them?
You said a woman couldn't have done it.
A woman can write a check.
So you're saying Betty Sizemore  our Betty Sizemore  who you were in swing choir with  has now hired somebody to scalp her husband in her own kitchen while she watched? You're amazing.
'S just a theory... just 'cause I'm thinking it don't mean I like it.
Oh, you're sharp as a tack, Elden.
That's it! YOU'RE GONE!
Oww, the arm, the arm!
You just don't know when to quit, Roy! You were jealous of me when I got hall monitor in seventh grade, and you're still jealous now!!!
One question, Doctor, please! You can't do this! I'm the press, I have rights!!
That's right, you have the right to remain silent.
What if the killers didn't see her? You published her picture  you're gonna get her killed!
No, we're bringing the community into the effort to find her.
You're lying!
I spoke to Betty Sizemore yesterday. That's right. There's no doubt in my mind, folks... she's on the run. Whether or not she's mixed up in all this remains to be seen...
That's bullshit, Sheriff! You think she's a suspect!
I'd like to apologize for our local boy. He's been in love with Betty since the fifth grade, y'see. He means well, but he's in over his head on this.
What the hell do you want?... Hey, Sue Ann, what's up?
We think we know where Betty is.
Ah, shit... Do I have to hear this now?
I see you're sticking to the diet Betty put you on...
Worry about your own goddamn lunch!
Tell him what you told me.
Why do I need to see this? Did he ask you to...?
Listen! I saw 'Chloe' and 'Lonnie' on T.V. They're television characters.
Yeah? Well, she called Sue Ann yesterday from Arizona.
She said she was in Arizona, did she?
Come on, Elden, think about it. The driver, all them trunks standing open like that... something's going on here!
I know that...
Well, do something, then, damnit!
You watch your mouth when you're in a goddamn county vehicle... You don't think I see what's going on? Del, now this Cooley fella, both of 'em mixed up with Joyce... 'S not no conspiracy, not some episode off the XFiles... 's just a crime of passion, plain and simple. Betty's on some kind'a preminstral rampage, that's what is going on here.
Oww... Did you have to make these things so tight?
No, I didn't have to.
Elden, let me out of here. Now! This is ridiculous, I need medical attention!
That's a nice name for what you need...
Come on, I have to get this dressing off... it itches! And what about my fish? Who is taking care of them?
Just shut up a second and listen... That, uh... that bar in Arizona? Where you said Betty was?
What about it?
Any idea where it is?
Little place called "Williams," why?
I just got something off the wire. The woman who owns it was murdered last night. Now, I'm not saying I agree with you or nothing, but... what else do you know?
I know plenty.
That's a lie! I figured it out! I've been trying to tell this dumbass 
Fuck you, Roy Ostrey!
 smalltime, pissant, Barney Fife 
We're in a shootout, Roy! Shut up about the damn fish!
YOU shut up! They're beautiful, but get them some water.
We need ammo... Go check his jacket, I'll cover you.
I'm not going out there! Let's wait for the real police...
You gotta go, we're pinned down!
You wanna see if he has more shells, go ahead. I say we wait...
No, no, no... you don't know shit about procedure! You don't send your best...
I've got the working gun, Elden, me! You wasted all your bullets so you crawl out there.
Hey, Sheriff. How's everything?
Oh, you know, the usual... keeping the world safe.
...I meant your food.
Oh, right... 's fine. Thanks.
I'm in a motel. Has something happened to Del? Did he do something stupid?
BETTY, I NEED TO TALK TO YOU... IN PERSON! WHERE'RE YOU AT?
IF THIS IS ABOUT DEL, FORGET IT! I'M NOT COMING BACK!
GODAMMIT, BETTY!... WHO'S CHLOE?
I'M THROUGH TALKING NOW! GOODBYE!
Sheriff, I don't...
C'mon, Betty, open up! I got some questions for you about...
How is she?
She's in a kind of shock. I see all the signs of a posttraumatic reaction with possible dissociative symptoms.
Could I have that in American?
It's a type of altered state... it allows a traumatized person to continue functioning.
So she did witness it?
Sorry you had to see that. You were saying?
I was saying that it seems probable that she witnessed the murder, but her memory of it is gone, at least for the time being. I also think you ought to have her stay with someone tonight. Any idea who Chloe or Lonnie are?
No... Friends from the diner maybe?
Well, you should find out. She keeps talking about them...
Who do you think gets through this gate into the United States of America?
I don't know. American citizens.
Some American citizens. Who do you think decides?
You do, I reckon.
That is correct. And how do I decide?
I don't know.
I ask questions. If I get sensible answers then they get to go to America. If I don't get sensible answers they don't. Is there anything about that that you don't understand?
No sir.
Then I ask you again how you come to be out here with no clothes.
I got an overcoat on.
Are you jackin' with me?
No sir.
Don't jack with me.
Yes sir.
Are you in the service?
No sir. I'm a veteran.
Nam?
Yes sir. Two tours.
What outfit.
Twelfth Infantry Batallion. August seventh nineteen and sixtysix to July second nineteen and sixtyeight.
...Don't worry. I'm not the man that's after you.
I know, I've seen him. Sort of.
...But that won't last.
What is he supposed to be, the ultimate badass?
I don't think that's how I would describe him.
How would you describe him?
I guess I'd say... that he doesn't have a sense of humor. His name is Chigurh.
Sugar?
Chigurh. Anton Chigurh. You know how he found you?
I know how he found me.
It's called a transponder.
I know what it is. He won't find me again.
Not that way.
Not any way.
Took me about three hours.
I been immobile.
No. You don't understand.
...What do you do?
I'm retired.
What did you do?
I'm a welder.
Acetylene? Mig? Tig?
Any of it. If it can be welded I can weld it.
Cast iron?
Yes.
I don't mean braze.
I didn't say braze.
Pot metal?
What did I say?
Were you in Nam?
Yeah. I was in Nam.
So was I.
So what does that make me? Your buddy?
Look. You need to give me the money. I've got no other reason to protect you.
Too late. I spent it  about a million and a half on whores and whiskey and the rest of it I just sort of blew it in.
Why would he go to Odessa?
To kill your wife.
Maybe he should be worried. About me.
He isn't. You're not cut out for this. You're just a guy that happened to find those vehicles.
...You didn't take the product, did you?
What product.
The heroin. You don't have it.
No I don't have it.
No. You don't.
...I'm across the river. At the Hotel Eagle. Carson Wells. Call me when you've had enough. I can even let you keep a little of the money.
If I was cuttin' deals, why wouldn't I go deal with this guy Chigurh?
No no. No. You don't understand. You can't make a deal with him. Even if you gave him the money he'd still kill you. He's a peculiar man. You could even say that he has principles. Principles that transcend money or drugs or anything like that. He's not like you. He's not even like me.
He don't talk as much as you, I give him points for that.
You tell me the option.
The what?
The option.
...You pick the option with the applicable rate.
I'm just one person. Don't matter the size of the bed.
Could I get another room.
You want to change rooms?
No, I want to keep my room, and get another one.
Another additional.
Uhhuh.You got a map of the rooms?
What about one fortytwo.
You can have the one next to yours if you want. One twenty. It ain't took.
No, one fortytwo.
That's got two double beds.
That's me.
I got beers in my room.
Waitin' for my wife.
Oh. That's who you keep lookin' out the window for?
Half.
What else then?
Lookin' for what's comin'.
Yeah but no one ever sees that. I like a man that'll tell you he's married.
Then you'll like me.
I do like you.
Yessir, that's correct. I know 'em when I see 'em.
When did you last see him.
November the 28th, last year.
You seem pretty sure of the date. Did I ask you to sit?
No sir but you struck me as a man who wouldn't want to waste a chair. I remember dates. Names. Numbers. I saw him on November 28th.
We got a loose cannon here. And we're out a bunch of money, and the other party is out his product.
Yessir. I understand that.
Yessir.
If your expenses run higher I hope you'll trust us for it.
Okay.
How well do you know Chigurh.
Well enough.
That's not an answer.
What do you want to know?
I'd just like to know your opinion of him. In general. Just how dangerous is he?
He killed three men in a motel in Del Rio yesterday. And two others at that colossal goatfuck out in the desert.
Okay. We can stop that.
You seem pretty sure of yourself. You've led something of a charmed life haven't you Mr. Wells?
...I'm wondering...
Yes?
Can I get my parking ticket validated?
...An attempt at humor, I suppose.
I'm sorry.
Goodbye, Mr. Wells.
Don't stop. Just ride me up past the rooms.
What room?
Just drive me around. I want to see if someone's here.
...Keep going. Don't stop.
I don't want to get in some kind of a jackpot here, buddy.
It's all right.
Why don't I set you down here and we won't argue about it.
I want you to take me to another motel.
Let's just call it square.
Twelve gauge. You need shells? Moss looks the gun over.
Uhhuh. Double ought.
They'll give you a wallop.
Tent poles.
Uhhuh.
You already have the tent?
Somethin' like that.
Well you give me the model number of the tent I can order you the poles.
Never mind. I want a tent.
What kind of tent?
The kind with the most poles.
Well I guess that'd be our tenfoot backyard PerGola. You can stand up in it. Well, some people could stand up in it. Six foot clearance at the ridge. You might just could.
Let me have that one. Where's the nearest hardware store?
One room, one night.
That's twentysix dollars.
You on all night?
Yessir, be here til ten tomorrow morning.
I'm waitin' to hear your description of that.
There's somebody lookin' for me. Not police. Just call me if anyone else checks in tonight.
Good. I need everything else.
Okay.
You get a lot of people come in here with no clothes on?
No sir, it's unusual.
How much?
Sixtynine cent.
This. And the gas.
Y'all getting any rain up your way?
What way would that be?
I seen you was from Dallas.
What business is it of yours where I'm from, friendo?
I didn't mean nothin' by it.
Didn't mean nothin'.
I was just passin' the time.
I guess that passes for manners in your cracker view of things.
...Will there be somethin' else?
I don't know. Will there?
Is somethin' wrong?
With what?
With anything?
Is that what you're asking me? Is there something wrong with anything?
Will there be anything else?
You already asked me that.
Well... I need to see about closin'.
See about closing.
Yessir.
What time do you close?
Now. We close now.
Now is not a time. What time do you close.
Generally around dark. At dark.
You don't know what you're talking about, do you?
Sir?
I said you don't know what you're talking about.
...What time do you go to bed.
Sir?
You're a bit deaf, aren't you? I said what time do you go to bed.
Well...
...I'd say around ninethirty. Somewhere around ninethirty.
I could come back then.
Why would you be comin' back? We'll be closed.
You said that.
Well... I need to close now 
You live in that house behind the store?
Yes I do.
You've lived here all your life?
This was my wife's father's place. Originally.
You married into it.
We lived in Temple Texas for many years. Raised a family there. In Temple. We come out here about four years ago.
You married into it.
...If that's the way you wanna put it.
I don't have some way to put it. That's the way it is.
...What's the most you've ever lost on a coin toss?
Sir?
The most. You ever lost. On a coin toss.
I don't know. I couldn't say.
Call it.
Call it?
Yes.
For what?
Just call it.
Well  we need to know what it is we're callin' for here.
You need to call it. I can't call it for you. It wouldn't be fair. It wouldn't even be right.
I didn't put nothin' up.
Yes you did. You been putting it up your whole life. You just didn't know it. You know what date is on this coin?
No.
Nineteen fiftyeight. It's been traveling twentytwo years to get here. And now it's here. And it's either heads or tails, and you have to say. Call it.
Look... I got to know what I stand to win.
Everything.
How's that?
You stand to win everything. Call it.
All right. Heads then.
...Don't put it in your pocket.
Sir?
Don't put it in your pocket. It's your lucky quarter.
...Where you want me to put it?
Anywhere not in your pocket. Or it'll get mixed in with the others and become just a coin. Which it is.
...Me?
Yes.
Nobody. Accounting.
He gave Acosta's people a receiver.
He feels... he felt... the more people looking...
That's foolish. You pick the one right tool.
...For instance. I used birshot. So as not to blow the window.
I see.
Who is this.
You know who it is.
...You need to talk to me.
I don't need to talk to you.
I think that you do. Do you know where I'm going?
Why would I care where you're going.
Do you know where I'm going?
...I know where you are.
Yeah? Where am I?
You're in the hospital across the river. But that's not where I'm going. Do you know where I'm going?
Yeah. I know where you're going.
All right.
You know she won't be there.
It doesn't make any difference where she is.
So what're you goin' up there for.
You know how this is going to turn out, don't you?
No. Do you?
Yes, I do. I think you do too. So this is what I'll offer. You bring me the money and I'll let her go. Otherwise she's accountable. The same as you. That's the best deal you're going to get. I won't tell you you can save yourself because you can't.
Yeah I'm goin' to bring you somethin' all right. I've decided to make you a special project of mine. You ain't goin' to have to look for me at all.
What's this about?
Step out of the car please, sir.
Huh? What is...
I need you to step out of the car, sir.
Mmhm.
Screwgie.
...Where's the transponder?
In the truck. I'll get it.
...You getting anything on this?
Not a bleep.
All right...
How'd you find it?
No me mate.
Yeah, that'll suck some power. Over time.
You from around here?
What airport would you use.
Huh? Airport or airstrip?
Airport.
Well  where ya goin'?
I don't know.
Just lightin' out for the territories, huh. Brother, I been there... Well...
Yessir?
I'm looking for Llewelyn Moss.
Did you go up to his trailer?
Yes I did.
Well I'd say he's at work. Do you want to leave a message?
Where does he work?
I can't say.
Where does he work?
Sir I ain't at liberty to give out no information about our residents.
Where does he work?
Did you not hear me? We can't give out no information.
Hello?
Is Llewelyn there?
Llewelyn?! No he ain't.
You expect him?
We don't have to do this. I'm a daytrader. I could just go home.
Why would I let you do that?
I know where the money is.
If you knew, you would have it with you.
I need dark. To get it. I know where it is.
I know something better.
What's that.
I know where it's going to be.
And where is that.
It will be brought to me and placed at my feet.
You don't know to a certainty. Twenty minutes it could be here.
I do know to a certainty. And you know what's going to happen now. You should admit your situation. There would be more dignity in it.
You go to hell.
Do you have any idea how goddamn crazy you are?
You mean the nature of this conversation?
I mean the nature of you.
What's in the satchel?
It's full a money.
That'll be the day.
...Where'd you get the pistol?
At the gettin' place.
Did you buy that gun?
No. I found it.
Llewelyn!
What? Quit hollerin'.
What'd you give for that thing?
You don't need to know everthing, Carla Jean.
I need to know that.
You keep running that mouth I'm gonna take you in the back and screw you.
Big talk.
Just keep it up.
Fine. I don't wanna know. I don't even wanna know where you been all day.
That'll work.
Llewelyn.
Yeah.
What're you doin', baby?
Goin' out.
Goin' where?
Somethin' I forgot to do. I'll be back.
What're you goin' to do?
...If I don't come back tell Mother I love her.
Your mother's dead, Llewelyn.
Well then I'll tell her myself.
Odessa.
Why would we go to Odessa?
Not we, you. Stay with your mother.
Well  how come?
So... for how long do we have to...
Baby, at what point would you quit botherin' to look for your two million dollars?
What'm I supposed to tell Mama?
Try standin' in the door and hollerin: Mama I'm home.
Llewelyn 
C'mon, pack your things. Anything you leave you ain't gonna see again.
Well thanks for fallin' all over and apologizing.
Things happened. I can't take 'em back.
Why all the way to Del Rio?
I'm gonna borrow a car. From Eldon.
You can't afford one?
Don't wanna register it. I'll call you in a couple days.
Promise?
Yes I do.
I got a bad feelin', Llewelyn.
Well I got a good one. So they ought to even out. Quit worrying about everthing.
Mama's gonna raise hell.
Uhhuh.
She is just gonna cuss you up'n down.
You should be used to that.
I'm used to lots of things, I work at WalMart.
Not any more, Carla Jean. You're retired.
Llewelyn?
Yes ma'am?
You are comin back, ain't ya?
I shall return.
Llewelyn?
Hey.
What should I do?
You know what's goin' on?
I don't know, I had the sheriff here from Terrell County 
What did you tell him?
What did I know to tell him. You're hurt, ain't you?
What makes you say that?
I can hear it in your voice.
Llewelyn, I ain't gonna leave you in the lurch.
No. This works better. With you gone and I don't have the money, he can't touch me. But I can sure touch him. After I find him I'll come and join you.
Find who? What am I supposed to do with Mother?
She'll be all right.
She'll be all right?
No.
I ain't got the money.
No.
What little I had is long gone and they's bill aplenty to pay yet. I buried my mother today. I ain't paid for that neither.
I wouldn't worry about it.
...I need to sit down.
...You got no cause to hurt me.
No. But I gave my word.
You gave your word?
To your husband.
That don't make sense. You gave your word to my husband to kill me?
Your husband had the opportunity to remove you from harm's way. Instead, he used you to try to save himself.
Not like that. Not like you say.
I don't say anything. Except it was foreseen.
I knowed you was crazy when I saw you settin' there. I knowed exactly what was in store for me.
Yes. Things fall into place.
It ain't even three years we been married.
Three years ago I said them very words. No and Good.
I got it Mama.
I didn't see my Prednizone.
I put it in, Mama.
Well I didn't see it.
Well I put it in. That one. You just set there. I'll get tickets and a cart for the bags.
I thought it was a car afire.
It is a car afire. But Wendell said there was something back country too.
When is the county gonna start payin' a rental on my horse.
Hyah!
...I love you more'n more, ever day.
That's very nice.
...Be careful.
I always am.
Don't get hurt.
I never do.
Don't hurt no one.
Well. If you say so.
Maybe I'll go ridin.
Okay.
What do you think.
I can't plan your day.
I mean, would you care to join me.
Lord no. I'm not retired.
...How'd you sleep?
I don't know. Had dreams.
Well you got time for 'em now. Anything interesting?
Well they always is to the party concerned.
Ed Tom, I'll be polite.
Okay. Two of 'em. Both had my father. It's peculiar. I'm older now'n he ever was by twenty years. So in a sense he's the younger man. Anyway, first one I don't remember so well but it was about meetin' him in town somewheres and he give me some money and I think I lost it. The second one, it was like we was both back in older times and I was on horseback goin' through the mountains of a night.
...This month's checks.
That DEA agent called again. You don't want to talk to him?
I'm goin' to try and keep from it as much as I can.
He's goin' back out there and he wanted to know if you wanted to go with him.
...Could I get you to call Loretta and tell her I've gone to Odessa? goin' to visit with Carla Jean Moss.
Yes Sheriff.
I'll call Loretta when I get there. I'd call now but she'll want me to come home and I just might.
You want me to wait til you've quit the building?
Yes I do. You don't want to lie without what it's absolutely necessary.
...What is it that Torbert says? About truth and justice?
We dedicate ourselves daily anew. Something like that.
I think I'm goin' to commence dedicatin' myself twice daily. It may come to three times before it's over...
You wouldn't think a car would burn like that.
Yessir. We should a brought wieners.
Does that look to you like about a '77 Ford, Wendell?
It could be.
I'd say it is. Not a doubt in my mind.
The old boy shot by the highway?
Yessir, his vehicle. Man killed Lamar's deputy, took his car, killed someone on the highway, swapped for his car, and now here it is and he's swapped again for god knows what.
That's very linear Sheriff.
Well. Old age flattens a man.
Yessir. But then there's this other. He nods up the ridge away from the highway.
Uhhuh.
...You ride Winston.
You sure?
Oh, I'm more than sure. Anything happens to Loretta's horse I can tell you right now you don't wanna be the party that was aboard.
I know this truck. Belongs to a feller named Moss.
Llewelyn Moss?
That's the boy.
You figure him for a dope runner?
Yes, appears to have been a glitch or two.
What calibers you got there, Sheriff?
Nine millimeter. Couple of .45 ACP's.
...Somebody unloaded on this thing with a shotgun.
Mm.
...How come do you reckon the coyotes ain't been at 'em?
I don't know...
These boys is all swole up. So this was earlier: gettin set to trade. Then, whoa, differences... You know: might not of even been no money.
That's possible.
But you don't believe it.
No. Probably I don't.
It's a mess, ain't it Sheriff?
We goin' in?
Gun out and up.
What about yours?
I'm hidin' behind you.
...I believe they've done lit a shuck.
Believe you're right.
That from the lock?
Probably must be.
So when was he here?
I don't know. Oh.
...Now that's aggravating.
Sheriff?
Sheriff, that's aggravating.
I'm ahead of you there.
You think this boy Moss has got any notion of the sorts of sons of bitches that are huntin' him?
I don't know. He ought to...
What was the bullet?
Wasn't no bullet.
Wasn't no bullet?
Yessir. Wasn't none.
Well, Wendell, with all due respect, that don't make a whole lot of sense.
No sir.
You said entrance wound in the forehead, no exit wound.
Yes sir.
Are you telling me he shot this boy in the head and then went fishin' around in there with a pocket knife?
Sir, I don't want to picture that.
Well I don't either!
Yes Noreen you better had. Thank you.
The Rangers and DEA are heading out to the desert this morning. You gonna join 'em?
I don't know. Any new bodies accumulated out there?
No sir.
Well then I guess I can skip it. Heavens to Betsy, Wendell, you already put me off my breakfast.
Yessir. None of the three had ID on 'em but they're tellin' me all three is Mexicans. Was Mexicans.
There's a question. Whether they stopped bein'. And when.
Yessir.
Now, Wendell, did you inquire about the cylinder lock?
Yessir. It was punched out.
Okay.
You gonna drive out there?
No, that's the only thing I would've looked for. And it sounds like these boys died of natural causes.
How's that, Sheriff?
Natural to the line of work they was in.
Yessir.
My lord, Wendell, it's just allout war. I don't know any other word for it. Who are these folks? I don't know...
Don't know why I did. I told you, I don't know where he is.
You ain't heard from him?
No I ain't.
Nothin'?
Not word one.
Would you tell me if you had?
Well, I don't know. He don't need any trouble from you.
It's not me he's in trouble with.
Who's he in trouble with then?
Some pretty bad people.
Llewelyn can take care of hisself.
These people will kill him, Carla Jean. They won't quit.
He won't neither. He never has.
I wish I could say that was in his favor. But I have to say I don't think it is.
He can take all comers.
Why you tellin' me that, Sheriff?
I don't know. My mind wanders.
Who's Charlie Walser. Oh! Well, I, uh... True story? I couldn't swear to ever detail but... it's certainly true that it is a story.
Yeah, right. Sheriff, can you give me your word on somethin'?
Yes ma'am?
If I tell you where Llewelyn's headed, you promise it'll be just you goes and talks with him  you and nobody else?
Yes ma'am, I do.
Llewelyn would never ask for help. He never thinks he needs any.
Carla Jean, I will not harm your man. And he needs help, whether he knows it or not.
Carla Jean...
No.
I thought maybe she was with your boy there.
No ID in her room?
Not hardly nothin' in her room. And that establishment was no stickler on registration. Well...
No money in his room there?
Couple hundred on his person. Those hombres would've taken the stash.
I suppose. Though they was leavin' in a hurry.
It's all the goddamned money, Ed Tom. The money and the drugs. It's just goddamned beyond everything. What is it mean? What is it leading to?
Yes.
If you'd a told me twenty years ago I'd see children walkin' the streets of our Texas towns with green hair and bones in their noses I just flat out wouldn't of believed you.
Signs and wonders. But I think once you stop hearin' sir and madam the rest is soon to follow.
It's the tide. It's the dismal tide. It is not the one thing.
Not the one thing. I used to think I could at least some way put things right. I don't feel that way no more.
...I don't know what I do feel like.
Try "old" on for size.
Yessir. It may be that. In a nutshell.
None of that explains your man though.
Uhhuh.
He is just a goddamn homicidal lunatic, Ed Tom.
I'm not sure he's a lunatic.
Well what would you call him.
I don't know. Sometimes I think he's pretty much a ghost.
He's real all right.
Oh yes.
All that at the Eagle Hotel. It's beyond everything.
Yes, he has some hard bark on him.
That don't hardly say it. He shoots the desk clerk one day, and walks right back in the next and shoots a retired army colonel.
Hard to believe.
Strolls right back into a crime scene. Who would do such a thing? How do you defend against it?
How'd you know I was here.
Who else'd be in your truck.
You heard it?
How's that?
You heard my  you havin' fun with me?
What give you that idea. I seen one of the cats heard it.
But  how'd you know it was mine?
I deduced it. Once you walked in.
How many a those things you got now?
Cats? Several. Wal. Depends what you mean by got. Some are halfwild, and some are just outlaws.
How you been, Ellis?
You lookin' at it. I got to say you look older.
I am older.
Got a letter from your wife. She writes pretty regular, tells me the family news.
Didn't know there was any.
She just told me you was quittin'. Sit down.
Want a cup?
'Predate it.
How fresh is this coffee?
I generally make a fresh pot ever week even if there's some left over.
That man that shot you died in prison.
In Angola. Yeah.
What would you a done if he'd been released?
I don't know. Nothin'. Wouldn't be no point to it.
I'm kindly surprised to hear you say that.
All the time you spend tryin' to get back what's been took from you there's more goin' out the door. After a while you just try and get a tourniquet on it.
...Your granddad never asked me to sign on as deputy. I done that my own self. Loretta says you're quittin'.
Yes, you've circled round.
How come're you doin that?
I don't know. I feel overmatched.
...I always thought when I got older God would sort of come into my life in some way. He didn't. I don't blame him. If I was him I'd have the same opinion about me that he does.
You don't know what he thinks.
Yes I do.
...Shot down on his own porch there in Hudspeth County. There was seven or eight of 'em come to the house. Wantin' this and wantin' that. Mac went back in and got his shotgun but they was way ahead of him. Shot him down in his own doorway. Aunt Ella run out and tried to stop the bleedin'. Him tryin to get hold of the shotgun again. They just set there on their horses watchin' him die. Finally one of 'em says somethin' in Injun and they all turned and left out. Well Mac knew the score even if Aunt Ella didn't. Shot through the left lung and that was that. As they say.
When did he die?
Nineteen zero and nine.
No, I mean was it right away or in the night or when was it.
Believe it was that night. She buried him the next mornin'. Diggin' in that hard caliche.
...What you got ain't nothin' new. This country is hard on people. Hard and crazy. Got the devil in it yet folks never seem to hold it to account.
Most don't.
You're discouraged.
I'm... discouraged.
You can't stop what's comin. Ain't all waitin' on you.
Howya doin'! New York treating you okay? I'm sorry I haven't been able to see you at all
Well enough. You're looking "happy," Nelson.
Oh, Happy! Dick Nixon ... You remember him.
Hi, Happy. Well, you're obviously making him happy.
Repartee, Dick  very good. Hey, I feel ten years younger! It makes a helluva difference, let me tell ya! How's the lawyer life?
Never made so much money in my life. But my upbringing doesn't allow me to enjoy it. I did get to argue a case before the Supreme Court.
Won or lost?
Lost.
Someday, Dick.
But being out of the game gives me time to write.
To what?
Write. You know, a book. I'm calling it "Six Crises." It's a good thing, Rocky  take some time off to write.
Hiya, fellow ... What were they?
What?
The "crises"?
"Checkers" of course, Hiss, Ike's heart attack, Venezuela, the Kitchen Debate, and Kennedy.
Sounds like you got a crisis syndrome. Aren't you exaggerating a bit, Dick? Call it threeandahalf, maybe four ...
Let's wait and see how you survive your first crisis, Rocky ...
Whatcha mean by that?
You know: how the voters are gonna play your divorce.
Well, in any case, Rocky, I'll send you my book. "Six Crises."
Whatcha predicting  your boy Goldwater going to split the party?
Some say you are, Rocky.
The Republican Party was never home to extremists. You should know better. This guy's as stupid as McCarthy, and McCarthy never did you any good in the long run, now did he?
Hey, you know Henry Kissinger  he's down from Harvard. On my staff, foreign policy whiz ...
No, but I liked your book on nuclear weapons. We have similar views on the balance of power ...
Well, that's wonderful. So get me this "crisis" thing, Dick; I'll be glad to take a look at it.
We lost ...
I know ...
It's hard to lose ...
It makes us human ...
It's not fair, Buddy. I can take the insults; I can take the namecalling. But I can't take the losing. I hate it.
We don't have to put ourselves through this again, Dick.
What do you mean? We worked for it. We earned it. It's ours.
It is. We know that. And it's enough that we know. Just think of the girls. They're still young. We never see them. I lost my parents. I don't want them to lose theirs; I don't want them to grow up without a mother and father ...
Maybe I should get out of the game. What do you think, Buddy? Go back to being a lawyer and end up with something solid, some money at the end of the line ... You know, I keep thinking of my old man tonight. He was a failure, too.
You're not a failure, Dick.
You know how much money he had in the bank when he died? Nothing. He was so damned honest ... But I miss him. I miss him a hell of a lot.
Thank you, Fidel Castro.
You're not going to blame this on Castro, are you?
I sure am. The goddamned missile crisis united the whole country behind Kennedy. And he was supporting Brown. People were scared, that's why.
I suppose Castro staged the whole thing just to beat you.
Buddy, before you join the jubilation at my being beaten again, you should remember: People vote not out of love, but fear. They don't teach that at Sunday School or at the Whittier Community Playhouse!
Don't you want to listen to Brown's victory speech?
No. I'm not going to listen to any more speeches ever again.
Amen to that.
It's over, Dick.
I'll concede in the morning.
Not that. Us.
What are you saying? What are you talking about?
I want a divorce.
My God  divorce? What about the girls?
The girls will grow up. They only know you from television anyway.
It would ruin us, Buddy, our family.
You're ruining us. If we stay with you, you'll take us down with you. This isn't political, Dick. This is our life.
Everything's political, for Christ's sake! I'm political. And you're political, too!
No, I'm not! I'm finished.
This is just what they want, Buddy. Don't you see it? They want to drive us apart. To beat us. We can't let them do it. We've been through too much together, Buddy ... We belong together.
That's what you said the first time we met. You didn't even know me.
Dick, don't...
Buddy, look at me ... just look at me. Do you really want me to quit?
We can be happy. We really can. We love you, Dick. The girls and I...
If I stop ... there'll be no more talk of divorce?
I'll do it. No more.
Are you serious?
Yeah ... I'm out.
Is that the truth?
I'll never run again. I promise.
Dick, you should call Bobby.
He doesn't want me at the funeral.
You don't have to go.
De Gaulle's gonna be there. And Macmillan. And Adenauer. Nixon can't not be there.
Then call him. I'm sure it was an oversight.
No. It's his way. He hates me. Him and Teddy. They always hated me.
They've lost a brother. You know what that means, Dick.
Were you planning to tell me?
We ... haven't announced anything ... uh ...
Buddy? ...
You should be going ... the primaries are soon, aren't they? New Hampshire ...
They love you, Buddy. They need you, too.
I don't want them to love me.
I need you out there. It won't be like last time. The war's crippled the Democrats. I can win ... We deserve it. Yeah, it's ours, Buddy  at last. Nobody knows better than you. Frank Nixon's boy.
It was our dream, too, Buddy, together ... always.
Do you really want this, Dick?
This. Above all.
And then you'll be happy?
Yes ... you know it! Yes ... I will. Yeah!
Then I'll be there for you.
You're the strongest woman I ever met. I love you, Buddy.
Can I just ask for one thing?
Anything.
Will you ... would you kiss me?
He looked old, didn't he?
I asked him, "Lyndon, what would you do, on a scale of one to ten?" And he said, "Bomb the shit out of Hanoi, boy! Bomb them where they live." ... John, do you think I was too soft on TV?
Hi, Buddy. What are you doing in here?
I've missed you.
Are you okay?
Why don't we go down to Key Biscayne together? Just the two of us.
Because ... I have to relax.
I was thinking tonight  do you remember, Dick? Do you remember when you used to drive me on dates with the other boys? You didn't want to let me out of your sight.
Yeah, sure, a long time ago.
Yes, it's been a long time ...
I don't need that, Buddy. I'm not Jack Kennedy.
No, you're not. So stop comparing yourself to him. You have no reason to ... You have everything you ever wanted. You've earned it. Why can't you just enjoy it?
I do. I do. In my own way.
Then what are you scared of, honey?
I'm not scared, Buddy. You don't understand. They're playing for keeps, Buddy. The press, the kids, the liberals  they're out there, trying to figure out how to tear me down.
They're all your enemies?
Yes!
You personally?
Yes! This is about me. Why can't you understand that, you of all people? It's not the war  it's Nixon! They want to destroy Nixon! And if I expose myself even the slightest bit they'll tear my insides out. Do you want that? Do you want to see that, Buddy? It's not pretty.
Sometimes I think that's what you want.
You've been drinking. What the hell are you saying? Jesus, you sound like them now! ... I've gotta keep fighting, Buddy, for the country. These people running things, the elite ... they're soft, chickenshit faggots! They don't have the longterm vision anymore. They just want to cover their asses or meet girls or tear each other down. Oh, God, this country's in deep trouble, Buddy ... and I have to see this through. Mother would've wanted no less of me ... I'm sorry, Buddy.
No, I don't. I'm not Jack ...
But they never will, Dick. No matter how many elections you win, they never will.
Penny for your thoughts.
Is that adjusted for inflation? Think of the life Mao's led. In '52 I called him a monster. Now he could be our most important ally. Only Nixon could've done that.
You're a long way from Whittier.
Congratulations, Dick.
How am I going to break this to Bob Hope?
Not for the Pentagon it isn't. I'm kissing Mao's ass. And the press is gonna find some way to shaft Nixon on this one.
It's not the press that matters. Nixon's wife is proud of him.
Yes.
When?
Tomorrow.
Ron told me that Bob Haldeman's been calling. But you won't talk to him ... if he's convicted, will you pardon him?
No.
What exactly did you want to discuss, Pat?
You. What' you're doing 
And what am I doing?
I wish I knew. You're hiding.
Hiding what?
Whatever it is you've always been hiding. You're letting it destroy you, Dick. You won't even ask for help. You're destroying yourself, Dick.
I'm the only left, Dick. If you don't talk to me, you ...
Brezhnev's coming in three days. I don't want to deal with them. And him. And you.
No, it isn't. I won't interfere with you anymore. I'm finished trying.
Thank you.
Thank you? Dick, sometimes I understand why they hate you.
Why didn't you?
You can't expect me to explain that to you.
What matters to me is whether you understand it.
You don't expect me to believe that for one minute, do you? Does it matter what's on them? Really? ... Murder, Dick? Sex? Your secrets, your fantasies? Or just me and you and ...
Don't be ridiculous!
I remember Alger Hiss. I know how ugly you can be  you're capable of anything. But you see, it doesn't really matter, at the end of the day, what's on them. Because you have absolutely no remorse. No concept of remorse. You want the tapes to get out, you want them to see you at your worst ...
You're drunk!
And what would I find out that I haven't known for years. What makes it so damn sad is that you couldn't confide in any of us. You had to make a record ... for the whole world.
They were for me. They're mine.
No. They're not yours. They are you. You should burn them.
It'll be over soon.
No ... it's just going to start now ... If I could just ... If I could just ... sleep.
There'll be time for that.
We got the press this time!
And we got the "big mo"! We're back!
We gotta make 'em think we're just as tough as they are  that Nixon's a mad bomber, he might do anything! I played a lot of poker in World War II , and I won big, and let me tell you this  unpredictability is our best asset. That redneck Johnson left me with a shitty hand and I'm bluffing. I've got to play the hawk in Vietnam and the dove in China. And if we keep our heads, we can win this thing.
What? Win Vietnam, sir?
But what am I telling the press about Kent State?
Tell 'em what you like; they'll never understand it anyway.
Mr. President, the press guys asked if you could come back for a minute.
The hell with 'em.
No, they want you, Mr. President. I really think it would be a good move.
Gentlemen, I go now to discover the exact length, width and depth of the shaft.
Bernstein.
Who the fuck are they? Bob, are you working on revoking the Posts's television license? Good.
You know, Fred, they sell tickets.
Sir?
They sell tickets to an impeachment. Like a fucking circus ... Okay, so they impeach me. Then it's a question of mathematics. How many votes do we have in the Senate?
Shit, plenty of people did their best writing in prison. Gandhi, Lenin ...
That's right.
What I know about this country, I ... I could rip it apart. If they want a public humiliation, that's what they'll get. But I will never resign this office. Where the fuck am I?
What's in there?
POWs. And their families.
So I'm supposed to be ...
Compassionate. Grateful.
Proud?
Sir?
Of them.
Yes, yes.
Fire him.
There's more ... there's more than just me. You can't break, my boy, even when there's nothing left. You can't admit, even to yourself, that it's gone, Al. Do you think those POWs in there did?
No, sir ...
Now some people, we both know them, Al, think you can go stand in the middle of the bullring and cry, "Mea culpa, mea culpa," while the crowd is hissing and booing and spitting on you. But a man doesn't cry. I don't cry. You don't cry ... You fight!
And this?! Good Lord, have you lost your mind? Nixon can't say this. "Niggers"!
Well, we could delete it.
Or we could write "expletive deleted."
... and get rid of all these "goddamns" and "Jesus Christs"!
We didn't come here to talk about football. We came here to end the war.
Yes, I understand that.
No, we don't! You're full of shit! You say you want to end the war, so why don't you? My brother died over there last November. Why? What good was his death?
I know. I know. I've seen a lot of kids die, too, in World War II.
Someone wants it ... You can't stop it, can you? Even if you wanted to. Because it's not you. It's the system. And the system won't let you stop it ...
There's a lot more at stake here than what you want. Or even what I want ...
Then what's the point? What's the point of being president? You're powerless.
No, no. I'm not powerless. Because ... because I understand the system. I believe I can control it. Maybe not control it totally. But ... tame it enough to make it do some good.
It sounds like you're talking about a wild animal.
Maybe I am.
Hi.
Hello ...
That's Julie ... and that's Tricia. She, uh, reminds me a little bit of you ...
Oh yeah ... she really is ... wholesome.
... I don't really know you yet, Sandy ... What do you like? I mean, what kind of clothes do you like? Do you like blue ... red?
Oh, I like satin, I like pink ...
What kind of, uh ... music do you like?
I like jazz ...
Yeah ... Guy Lombardo ...
Elvis I like, too.
Oh yeah, he's good.
... but it depends on what I'm doing to the music, Dick ...
Uh, is your mother ... still alive?
Yeah, she lives in Dallas ...
She must be very attractive. Would she like an autograph? She might remember me ... Where's Trini?
Hi, I'm Dick Nixon.
You're shittin' me.
Where you from?
Syracuse.
The Orangemen! Now there's a football program. Jim Brown. And that other tailback ... The one with the blood disease ...
Ernie Davis.
Right, right. I used to play a little ball myself at Whittier. Of course, they used me as a tackling dummy.
What you have to understand, Mr. Nixon, is that we are willing to die for what we believe in.
That man up there lived in similar times. He had chaos and civil war and hatred between the races ... Sometimes I go to the Lincoln Room at the White House and just pray. You know, the liberals act like idealism belongs to them, but it's not true. My family went Republican because Lincoln freed the slaves. My grandmother was an abolitionist. It was Quakers who founded Whittier, my hometown, to abolish slavery. They were conservative Bible folk, but they had a powerful sense of right and wrong ... Forty years ago I was looking, as you are now, for answers. But you know, ending the war and cleaning up the air and the cities, feeding the poor  my mother used to feed hobos stopping over at our house  none of it is going to satisfy the spiritual hunger we all have, finding a meaning to this life ...
Come on, man  Vietnam ain't Germany. It doesn't threaten us. It's a civil war between the Vietnamese.
But change always comes slowly. I've withdrawn more than half the troops. I'm trying to cut the military budget for the first time in thirty years. I want an allvolunteer army. But it's also a question of American credibility, our position in the world ...
... give me a break, Mary.
You all know me. I'm one of you, I grew up a stone's throw from here on a little lemon ranch in Yorba Linda ...
But it was all we had.
... but it was all we had.
Edgar, wonderful to see you. Clyde ... hi.
Mr. Nixon.
... Somebody should shoot the little bastard.
I wanna fight just as dirty as he does.
... Use his women.
... Any information you have, Edgar. The sonofabitch is not gonna steal from me again! Can you back me up on this? Can I count on your support?
We can prosecute the New York Times, go for an injunction ...
... but it's not, bottomline, gonna change a goddamn thing, John. The question is: How do we screw Ellsberg so bad it puts the fear of God into all leakers?
It was illegal, what he did.
You know, this kinda thing, you gotta be brutal. A leak happens, the whole damn place should be fired. Really. You do it like the Germans in World War II. If they went through these towns and a sniper hit one of them, they'd line the whole goddamned town up and say: "Until you talk you're all getting shot." I really think that's what has to be done. I don't think you can be Mr. Niceguy anymore ...
The lie?
You remember, John, in '48  no one believed Alger Hiss was a communist. Except me. They loved Hiss just like they loved this Ellsberg character. East Coast, Ivy League. He was their kind. I was dirt to them. Nothing.
And Dick beat the shit out of them.
But I wouldn't have if Hiss hadn't lied about knowing Chambers. The documents were old and out of date, like these Pentagon Papers. The key thing we proved was that Hiss was a liar. Then people bought it that he was a spy. It's the lie that gets you.
Hiss was protecting his wife. I've always believed that.
When they know you've got something to protect, that's when they fuck you!
Sorry, Dick. She's a little tipsy.
You mean smashed! She called up at midnight last week. Talking a bunch of crap. Pat can't stand her.
It's a thing she does. She talks at night.
Talks all day, too! How the hell can you put up with her, John?
What the hell  I love her. And she's great in bed.
Rocky's full of shit! No way he's going to get nominated west of the Hudson with a new wife. He's gonna be drinking Scotches in retirement at some goddamn country club with the rest of the Republicans.
Goes to show you all the moolah in the world can't buy you a brain.
Well, he seems to have bought Kissinger.
The Jewboy's a Harvard whore with the morals of an eel  sells himself to the highest bidder.
You're the one who should be in politics, John. You're tougher than I am. You never crack.
That'll be the day.
Let's get out of here; it's too painful. I hate it. We went bowling last weekend. Next weekend we're going to the zoo. Whoever said there was life after politics was full of shit.
Make some money, Dick, prove yourself to the Wall Street crowd and let Goldwater and Rockefeller take the fall against Kennedy.
Uh, wait ...
You need her, Dick  in '60 she was worth five, six million votes.
Don't worry  I'll use the old Nixon charm on her.
How many?
Four. Two boys. Two girls. And eight wounded.
Jesus Christ!
One of the fathers was on the TV saying, "My child was not a bum." And it's playing like gangbusters. Hell, Hoover told me one of the girls was a nymph.
Shit, the press doesn't care about the facts. Cronkite's sticking it to me. It's their first big hit on Richard Nixon.
This isn't '48, Dick. They'll never buy it.
How do you know that, John? Did we try? Are we just giving up like the rest of 'em? What's Hoover found, for God's sake?
You all right?
My brother Harold was about the same age as those kids, John. Tuberculosis got him.
It wasn't your fault. The soldiers were just kids, too. They panicked.
They were throwing rocks, John, just rocks. They don't think I feel ... but I feel too much sometimes. I just can't let a whole policy get dominated by our sentimentality.
You're doing the right thing, Dick ... don't let 'em shake you.
It broke my heart when Harold died.
That was a long time ago.
Get off that. That leads nowhere. You should offer condolences to the families of those kids.
Sure, I'd like to offer condolences.
Yes, well ... Gentlemen, I promised my wife. I'm out of politics.
You just came down here for the weather, right, Mr. Nixon?
I came down here to close a deal for Studebaker.
So ... how's the food over there in China, Mr. Nixon?
Free, if you're the president.
What are you going to do about this Allende fellow nationalizing our businesses in Chile? You gonna send Kissinger down there?
We're gonna get rid of him  Allende, I mean  just as fast as we can. He's on the top of the list.
How about Kissinger along with him?
Kissinger's misunderstood. He pretends to be a liberal for his Establishment friends, but he's even tougher than I am ...
I must say you look very good, Mr. Chairman.
Looks can be deceiving ...
We know you've taken a great risk in inviting us here.
Don't ever trust them. They never tell the truth or honor their commitments. Vietnamese are like Russians. Both are dogs.
Mr. Chairman, there is an old saying: The enemy of my enemy is my friend.
That has the added virtue of being true.
You know, I voted for you in your last election.
I was the lesser of two evils.
You're too modest, Nixon. You're as evil as I am. We're both from poor families. But others pay to feed the hunger in us. In my case, millions of reactionaries. In your case, millions of Vietnamese.
Civil war is always the cruelest kind of war.
The real war is in us. History is a symptom of our disease.
I was asleep, Mr. President. What can I get you?
Just ... uh ... you know.
Of course.
Do you miss Cuba, Manolo?
Yes, Mr. President.
We let you down, didn't we. Your people.
That was Mr. Kennedy.
You don't think he was a hero?
He was a politician.
Did you cry when he died?
Yes.
Why?
I don't know. He made me see the stars ...
How did he do that? All those kids ... Why do they hate me so much?
You know, Mr. Chairman, at Harvard I used your writings in my class.
What a waste of time. My writings mean absolutely nothing.
But your writings have changed the world, Mr. Chairman.
Fung pi! I've only managed to change a few things around the city of Beijing. I want to know your secret.
Secret, Mr. Chairman?
How a fat man gets so many girls.
Mr. President, we are in a revolutionary situation. We are under siege  Black Panthers, Weathermen; The State Department under Rogers is leaking like a sieve. And now this insignificant little shit Ellsberg publishing all the diplomatic secrets of this country will destroy our ability to conduct foreign policy.
Here, Tim ... Tim. I'm as frustrated as you, Henry, but don't you think this one's a Democrat problem. They started the war; it makes them look bad.
Fuck it! He doesn't like me, John! It's your fault, Henry.
I beg your pardon 
It's your people who are leaking to the Times. Wasn't this Ellsberg a student of yours at Harvard? He was your idea; why are you suddenly running for cover?
He was, he was. We taught a class together at Harvard. But you know these backstabbing Ivy League intellectuals, they can't ...
No, Henry. I don't.
He's turned into a drug fiend, he shot people from helicopters in Vietnam, he has sexual relations with his wife in front of their children. He sees a shrink in L.A. He's all fucked up. Now he's trying to be a hero to the liberals ... If he gets away with it, everybody will follow his lead. He must be stopped at all costs.
Who are you talking to like this, you insignificant shit ...
... and what do we get for it? Gobs and gobs of bullshit, gossip, nothing! Someone is leaking. We've got to stop the leaks, Henry, at any cost, do you hear me? Then we can go for the big play  China, Russia.
Alright, Henry  we're gonna go your way. Crush this Ellsberg character the same way we did Hiss!
There's no other choice.
We're gonna hit him so hard he looks like everything that's sick and evil about the Eastern Establishment. You and your "plumbers" are gonna find dirt on this guy  let's see him going to the bathroom in front of the American public! And when we finish with him, they'll crucify him!
... as the old alliances crumble.
Finally someone who's noticed! I'm a great admirer of yours, too, Mr. Nixon. You are an unusual politician. We share a mutual idol  "Six Crises" sounds like a page from Churchill.
Churchill, DeGaulle, Disraeli. They all went through the pain of losing power.
But they all got it back again, didn't they? We should have lunch sometime.
Well, as you know, most of my staff have weighed in against this "incursion." They believe it will fail to achieve anything fundamental militarily, and will result in crushing criticism domestically ...
I didn't ask what your staff thinks, Henry. What do you think?
What I think is ... they're cowards. Their opposition represents the cowardice of the Eastern Establishment. They don't realize as you do, Mr. President, that the Communists only respect strength, and they will only negotiate in good faith if they fear the "madman," Richard Nixon.
Exactly, sir. That is your historical contribution: to lead boldly in an era of limits.
No one understands!  even my own men. What do you think the Communists respond to? Honesty, liberal guilt, soulwringing crap, fathers on TV crying? Hell no! I understand the Communist mind, I've studied it for thirty years. They grasp "realpolitik" better than any of us, right, Henry?
That's triangular diplomacy, gentlemen.
Exactly, yes, Mr. President. That is my contention.
That's what geopolitics is about  the whole world linked by self interest ... You tell me, Ron, how the hell I can explain that on television to a bunch of simpleminded reporters and weeping fucking mothers!
This will get me a second term. Damn it, without risk, there's no heroism. There's no history. I, Nixon, was born to do this.
Mr. President, this cannot be breathed! Especially to our secretary of state  that cretin Rogers ... The Chinese would never trust us again. The only way, I emphasize only way, to pull this off is in secret.
This is a major coup, gentlemen  our own State Department doesn't even know. And if it leaks out of here tonight ...
That's right! And if necessary, I'll drop the big one.
We have to entertain the possibility ...
You'll pick up the middle on this one  the Jews and Negros.
Jews and Negros don't win elections, Henry. Better to hang them around the Democrats' necks.
Housecleaning? It would be ugly, Henry, really ugly ...
But it must be done; your government is paralyzed.
All kinds of shit would come out. Like the Ellsberg thing. You knew about that, Henry, didn't you?
I ... I heard something ... It sounded idiotic.
Idiotic? Yes, I suppose it was.
That doesn't matter now, Henry. The point is, you might lose some of your mediadarling halo if the press starts sniffing around our dirty laundry.
I had nothing to do with that, sir, and I resent any implication ...
Resent it all you want, Henry, but you're in it with the rest of us. Cambodia, Ellsberg, the wiretaps you put in. The President wants you to know you can't just click your heels and head back to Harvard Yard. It's your ass too, Henry, and it's in the wind twisting with everyone else's.
Mr. Nixon, it is possible for even a president to go too far.
Yeah ...
Can you imagine what this man would have been had he ever been loved?
... because people have got to know whether or not their President is a crook. Well, I am not a crook. I have never made a dime from public service ...
Oh God, I'm going to throw up.
Yes, you always had a good sense of timing, Henry. When to give and when to take. How do you think Mao, Brezhnev will react? Do you think this is how they'll remember me, Henry, after all the great things you and I did together? As some kind of ... of ... crooks?
They will understand, sir. To be undone by a thirdrate burglary is a fate of biblical proportions. History will treat you far more kindly than your contemporaries.
That depends who writes the history books. I'm not a quitter ... but I'm not stupid either ... A trial would kill me  that's what they want. But they won't get it.
If they harass you, I, too, will resign. And I will tell the world why.
Don't be stupid. The world needs you, Henry; you always saw the big picture. You were my equal in many ways. You're the only friend I've got, Henry.
You have many friends ... and admirers ...
Do you ever pray? You know ... believe in a Supreme Being?
Uh ... not really. You mean on my knees?
Yes. My mother used to pray ... a lot. It's been a long time since I really prayed. Let's pray, Henry; let's pray a little.
... Uh, I hope this doesn't embarrass you.
Not at all. This is not going to leak, is it?
Don't be too proud; never be too proud to go on your knees before God.
Thanks, Jack. You sure throw a helluva party.
Party ain't started yet, Dick. Got these gals coming over to the ranch later for a little private "thing," y'know ... There's some fellows I want you to meet.
Well, uh, Trini and I have an early plane. We were hoping to get back to New York in time for ...
Like you said Jack, I'm just a New York lawyer now.
We'll see about that.
I know for a fact that the one with the big tits is a Republican, and she'd do anything for the Party.
She's quite pretty.
Her name's Sandy ...
By the way, Jack, this looks like a pretty straightforward transaction to me, but we should get into it soon  just take a few minutes, maybe up at the house ...
He's all business, ain't he, Trini? Dick, we could've had our own goddamn lawyers handle this deal. We brought you down here 'cause we wanted to talk to you ...
Hell, Kennedy's pissed Cuba away to the Russians. And he don't know what the hell he's doing in Vietnam. These are dangerous times, Dick, especially for business ...
Agreed.
Gentlemen, I tried. I told Kennedy to go into Cuba. He heard me and he made his decision. I appreciate your sentiments. I've heard them from many fine Cuban patriots, but it's nothing I can do anything about. Now, it's a long drive back to Dallas tonight, and Trini and I have got an early flight tomorrow to New York ...
Dick, these boys want you to run. They're serious. They can deliver the South and they can put Texas in your column. That would've done it in '60.
Only if Kennedy dumps Johnson.
That sonofabitch Kennedy is coming back down here tomorrow. Dick, we're willing to put up a shitpot fulla money to get rid of him  more money'n you ever dreamed of.
Nobody's gonna beat Kennedy in '64 with all the money in the world.
So, what's this about, Dick?
It's me or Wallace, Jack. Wallace's third party is only going to help McGovern. I need your support.
Well, you sure been chock full of surprises so far, "Mister President."
It looks like to me we're gonna lose the war for the first goddamned time and, Dick, goddamn it, you're going along with it, buying into this Kissinger bullshit  "detente" with the Communists. "Detente"  it sounds like two fags dancing.
Jack, we're not living in the same country you and I knew in '46. Our people are just not gonna sacrifice in major numbers for war. We can't even get 'em to accept cuts in their gas tanks. Hell, the Arabs and the Japanese are bleeding the shit out of our gold ..
And whose fault is that? If we'd won in Vietnam ...
It's nobody's fault, Jack. It's change  which is a fact of history. Even that old cocksucker Hoover's dead. Things change.
Desi's got a point. What the hell are we gonna do about the Communists right here in our backyard?!
What do you mean, Jack?
I mean I got federal price controls on my oil. The ragheads are beating the shit out of me. And I got your EPA environment agency with its thumb so far up my ass it's scratching my ear.
... And now I have a federal judge ordering me to bus my kids halfway 'cross town to go to school with some nigger kids. I think, Mr. President, you're forgetting who put you where you are.
The American people put me where I am.
Because if you're uncomfortable with the EPA up your ass, try the IRS ...
Well, goddamn. Are you threatening me, Dick?
Presidents don't threaten. They don't have to. Good day, gentlemen.
Howard ... What the hell? What're you doing?
Dogs ... Season starts tomorrow. It keeps me calm. I don't like going back into the same building four times.
Mein Kampf?
"A warrior with nerves of steel is yet broken by a thread of silk." Nietzsche.
Personally I'd prefer a greyhound with a shot of speed.
Remember  listen up! Fire team discipline is there at all times. Keep your radios on at all times during the entire penetration. Check yourselves. Phony ID's, no wallets, no keys. We rendezvous where? The Watergate, Room 214. When? At zero threehundred.
Let's get the fuck out of here, shall we, ladies?
Anything goes wrong, head for your homes, just sit tight  you'll hear from me or Howard.
Personally, I'll be calling the President of the United States.
How the fuck did you know?
Injections. Even this noble sport's been fixed. Seen the guys?
They're around.
Why, you got a customer?
The White House.
You're fucking me.
We're gonna be plumbers, Frank. We're gonna plug a leak.
Who we working for?
A guy named Gordon Liddy. Thinks he's Martin Borman. You wanna meet him?
Where'd you find him?
Just don't tell him to do anything you don't really want him to do.
So, does Tricky Dick know about this?
I won't tell him if you won't.
It was the poorest lemon ranch in California, I can tell you that. My father sold it before they found oil on it.
It was the poorest lemon ranch in California, I can assure you. My father sold it before they found oil on it.
My father built the house where I was born with his own hands. Oh, it wasn't a big house ...
Turn this crap off, Clyde. It's giving me a headache ... You may go, Joaquin.
Thank you for coming, Dick.
Winning?
Actually, I've just had a bit of luck.
Oh, my goodness ...
How about you? Are you going to win?
You should ask Bobby.
Can't we just talk here? I've got the police chiefs in San Diego.
I'm trying to spare you an embarrassment. Johnny Roselli is on his way back here.
Roselli? Johnny Roselli?
Yes. Your old friend from Cuba.
I never met the man.
I know you've been very careful not to. That's why I'm concerned.
You'll win the nomination.
It could be '60 all over again, Edgar. Bobby's got the magic, like a goddamn rock star. They climb all over each other just to touch his clothes! He'll ride his brother's corpse right into the White House.
Or he'll steal it like his brother. He's a mean little sonofabitch, Edgar ... He had the IRS audit my mother when she was dying in a nursing home.
I know ...
Yeah, well, as I said, Edgar ...
You asked if you could count on my support ... As long as I can count on yours.
The old queen did it on purpose.
There must be a quartermillion out there, Edgar. They've been at it now for a year. Young kids just like Tricia. I don't know. Do you think they have a point, Edgar? Maybe this whole damned system of government is ...
Remember what Lenin said in 1917, Mr. President: "The power was lying in the streets just waiting for someone to pick it up." The Communists have never been closer. Now is the time to go back to the old themes, the ones that made you president. Let the Communists know you're onto them.
The little bastards think they can ruin Tricia's wedding day by dancing naked in the Reflecting Pond.
Don't listen to 'em, don't quit. Remember  Kennedy, Bobby, and King were against the war. Where are they now? Don't give 'em a goddamn inch on the war. President Johnson bombed Laos for years and nobody knew or said a thing. How the hell the Times ever got ahold of this Ellsberg stuff is a disgrace!
We can't keep a goddamn secret in this government, Edgar. They're stealing papers right out of his office.
Johnson had the same damned problem till he bugged his own office.
We took his system out.
That was a mistake. The White House was full of Kennedy people then. It still is.
Who do you think is behind it?
Well, you have CIA people all over the place. Helms has seen to that. Then there's Kissinger's staff. Kissinger himself, I believe, maybe the leaker.
Kissinger?
He's obsessed with his own image. He wants his Nobel Peace Prize a little too much. As the late "Doctor" King proved  even an ape can win a prize with good press.
Jesus, I'd like to book him into a psychiatrist's office. He comes in here ranting and raving, dumping his crap all over the place ... Could you prove it, Edgar?
I always get my man.
Yeah, you do. I'd be bugging myself, Edgar ... Who'd get the tapes?
No one. Your property. It would prove your case. Why do you think Kissinger's taping your calls? For history. His word against yours  and right now he's got the records.
This damned tie ... Will you help me, Edgar? Churchill used to say to me, "If you want your own history written properly, you must write it yourself." All right, Edgar, but just don't let it come back to haunt me.
It won't. As long as I'm here.
What do you think this plan is, Edgar? A nuclear attack?
He's lying, Clyde. Always has. That's why Nixon's always been useful. Hold still. And take your hand off your hip.
I want to see him tomorrow, Clyde.
Edgar, think twice. He works in the kitchen.
Not Joaquin, you idiot. Nixon. Did you hear what he said in Oregon? About me having too much power.
It's between Nixon and a Kennedy again, Edgar ... Who do you want?
Kennedy  never. He'll fry in hell for what he did to me. But Nixon doesn't know that, which is why I'm gonna have to remind him he needs us a helluva lot more'n we need him.
... little Bobby.
Would you walk with me down to the paddock? I'd like to look at the horses for the eighth.
Ummm...
If things remain as they are ... He's got the antiwar vote.
I'm honored, Dick, that you've come all this way out here to Virginia to visit us at last.
My friends call me "Mister President."
And so shall I. Arrange some coffee, would you General Cushman?
Robert Cushman is a lieutenant general in the Marine Corps, the Deputy Director of the CIA ... and this is what you use him for?
I didn't choose him as my deputy, Mr. President. You did.
I suppose, "Mister President," you're unhappy that we have not implemented your Domestic Intelligence plan, but ...
You're correct. I'm concerned these students are being funded by foreign interests, whether they know it or not. The FBI is worthless in this area. I want your full concentration on this matter ...
Of course we've tried, but so far we've come up with nothing that ...
Then find something. And I want these leaks stopped. Jack fucking Anderson, the New York Times, the State Department  I want to know who's talking to them.
I'm sure you realize this is a very tricky area, Mr. President, given our charter and the congressional oversight committees ...
Screw congressional oversight. I know damn well, going back to the '50's, this agency reports what it wants, and buries what it doesn't want Congress to know. Pay close attention to this.
Is there something else that's bothering you, Mr. President?
Yes ... It involves some old and forgotten papers. Things I signed as Vice President. I want the originals in my office and I don't want copies anywhere else.
You're referring, of course, to chairing the Special Operations Group as Vice President.
Yes ...
Diem? Trujillo? Lumumba? Guatemala? Cuba? ... It's a shame you didn't take similar precautions, Dick.
I'm interested in the documents that put your people together with ... the others. All of them ...
President Kennedy threatened to smash the CIA into a thousand pieces. You could do the same ...
I'm not Jack Kennedy. Your agency is secure.
Not if I give you all the cards ...
I promised the American people peace with honor in Southeast Asia. That could take time  two, maybe three years ... In the meantime, your agency will continue at current levels of funding.
Current levels may not be sufficient.
The President would support a reasonable request for an increase.
And me? ...
Firing you, Mr. Helms, wouldn't do any good. Of course you'll continue as DCI. You're doing a magnificent job.
And of course I accept. I'm flattered. And I want you to know, I work for only one president at a time.
Yes. And you will give General Cushman full access.
It will take a little time, but I'll order a search for your papers. Though it does raise a disturbing issue.
What?
Mr. Castro.
Yes.
We have recent intelligence that a Soviet nuclear submarine has docked at Cienfuegos.
Well, we'll lodge a formal protest.
I don't think we can treat this as a formality. Mr. Kennedy made a verbal promise to the Russians not to invade Cuba. But you authorized Dr. Kissinger to put this in writing.
Are you tapping Kissinger?
My job, unpleasant sometimes, is to know what others don't want me to know.
Not if you have spies in the White House, it isn't your job.
It is not my practice to spy on the president. Doctor Kissinger manages to convey his innermost secrets to the world at large on his own.
Mr. Helms, we've lived with Communism in Cuba for ten years ...
... But it has never been the policy of this government to accept that. And it is certainly not CIA policy.
CIA policy? The CIA has no policy, Mr. Helms. Except what I dictate to you ... I try to adjust to the world as it is today, not as you or I wanted it to be ten years ago.
Is that why you and Kissinger are negotiating with the Chinese?
This is an extremely dangerous direction, Mr. President. Terrible consequences can result from such enormous errors in judgement.
But ... if we were able to separate China from Russia once and for all, we can  we could create a balance of power that would secure the peace into the next century.
By offering Cuba to the Russians as a consolation prize?
Cuba would be a small price to pay.
So President Kennedy thought.
I never thought Jack was ready for the presidency. But I would never, never consider ... His death was awful, an awful thing for this country. Do you ever think of death, Mr. Helms?
Flowers are continual reminders of our mortality. Do you appreciate flowers?
No. They make me sick. They smell like death ... I had two brothers die young. But let me tell you, there are worse things than death. There is such a thing as evil.
You must be familiar with my favorite poem by Yeats? "The Second Coming"?
No.
Black Irishman. Very moving. "Turning and turning in the widening gyre / The falcon cannot hear the falconer / Things fall apart, the center cannot hold / Mere anarchy is loosed upon the world / And everywhere the ceremony of innocence is drowned / The best lack all conviction, while the worst are full of passionate intensity" ... But it ends so beautifully ominous  "What rough beast, its hours come round at last / Slouches toward Bethlehem to be born?" ... Yes, this country stands at such a juncture.
What'd he say?
What do you think? He said in life there's no free ride.
What'd you say?
I said I didn't need a free ride. I need a suit.
Oh, no, Harold. He doesn't respond well to humor. Maybe if you talk to Mother she can ...
I'd rather get a whipping than have another talk with her. Anything but a talk with her.
Hey ... you'll be able to do it now.
What ... ?
Go to law school. Mom and Dad'll be able to afford it now ...
Mom expects great things from you ...
Harold ... can I get you anything?
Relax, Dick, it's just me ... The desert's so beautiful, isn't it? I want to go home, Dick. Time to go home.
You're not gonna quit on me, are you, Harold?
Richard ... come with me, would you ...
Why me?
Because Harold tests thy father's will is no reason to admire him. Let Harold's worldliness be a warning to thee, not an example.
Yes, Mother ...
Harold may have lost touch with his Bible, but thou must never lapse.
Do not tell a lie, Richard ... The cornsilk cigarette Harold gave thee behind the store this morning.
I don't ... have them. Mother ... I swear, I ... didn't smoke.
I see ... Well then, Richard, we have nothing more to talk about, do we?
Please, Mother, it ... it was just one time, Mother, I'm ... I'm sorry.
So am I. Thy father will have to know of thy lying.
No, no! Please, don't. Don't tell him. I'll never do it again. I promise. I promise ... Please, mama ...
I expect more from thee, Richard.
Please! I'll never let you down again, Mother. Never. I promise.
Then this shall be our little secret. Remember that I see into thy soul as God sees. Thou may fool the world. Even thy father. But not me, Richard. Never me.
Mother, think of me always as your faithful dog ...
We haven't said grace yet. Richard.
Is it my turn?
I can't ...
Thou must.
It's a gift, Richard. This law school is a gift from your brother.
Did he have to die for me to get it?!
It's meant to make us stronger. Thou art stronger than Harold ... stronger than Arthur. God has chosen thee to survive ...
What about happiness, Mother?
Thou must find thy peace at the center, Richard. Strength in this life. Happiness in the next.
They did what?! I don't understand. Why'd they go into O'Brien's office in the first place?
Evidently to install bugs and photograph documents.
But O'Brien doesn't even use that office. The Democrats've moved to Miami. There's nothing there!
It was just a fishing expedition. Apparently it was their fourth attempt at the DNC.
Their fourth!
It's possible they were looking for evidence of an illegal Howard Hughes donation to the Democrats, so the Democrats couldn't make an issue of your Hughes money.
Contributions! It was a legal contribution. Who the hell authorized this? Colson?
We feel the bigger concern is Gordon Liddy ...
That fruitcake! What about him?
Well, you know, sir, he's a nut. He used to work here with the "Plumbers" and now he's running this Watergate caper. You remember his plan to firebomb the Brookings using Cubans as firemen? He wanted to buy a damned fire truck! Magruder thinks he's just nutty enough to go off the reservation.
What's Liddy got?
Apparently he was using some campaign cash that was laundered for us through Mexico. The FBI's onto it. We could have a problem with that.
He works for Colson. He used him on the Pentagon Papers. We're trying to figure out when he officially stopped being a White House consultant. After the arrest he dumped his wiretapping stuff into his White House safe.
Howard Hunt is working for the White House? No shit! This is goddamn Disneyland! Since when?
On the list of horribles, I know what he is. And I know what he tracks back to. You say he was involved in the Plumbers?
Definitely. Colson had him trying to break into Bremer's apartment after Bremer shot Wallace, to plant McGovern campaign literature.
I had nothing to do with that. Was he ... in the Ellsberg thing?
Yes, you approved it, sir.
I did?
It was right after the Pentagon Papers broke. They went in to get his psychiatric records.
Fucking hell.
We were working on China.
Well, why not?
Our own intelligence capability  to fix the leaks?
Howard Hunt? ... Jesus Christ, you open up that scab ... and you uncover a lot of pus.
What do you mean, sir?
But what are we paying him for?
Silence!
But, sir, you're covered  no one here gave orders to break into the damned Watergate. We're clean. It's only the Ellsberg thing, and if that comes out, it's "national security."
"Security" is not strong enough.
How about a COMINT classification? We put it on the Huston plan. Even the designation is classified.
"National Priority."
"National security priority restricted and controlled secret."
We'll work on it. I say we cut ourselves loose from these clowns and that's all there is to it.
Should we talk to Trini about paying these guys? Or maybe Chotiner?
No, keep Trini out of this. Chotiner's too old. And for God's sake, keep Colson out. It's time to baptize our young counsel. That means Dean can never talk about it. Attorneyclient privilege. Get to it. And Dean  you stay close on this.
Bob, did I approve the Ellsberg thing? You know, I'm glad we tape all these conversations because ... I never approved that breakin at Ellsberg's psychiatrist. Or maybe I approved it after the fact? Someday we've got to start transcribing the tapes.
You approved that before the fact, because I went over it with you. But ...
Uh, no one, of course, is going to see these tapes, but ...
That's right, and it's more a problem for Ehrlichman. He fixed Hunt up with the phony CIA ID's, but ... what else does Hunt have on us?
We've got to turn off the FBI. You just go to the CIA, Bob, and tell Helms that Howard Hunt is blackmailing the President. Tell him that Hunt and his Cuban friends know too damn much, and if he goes public, it would be a fiasco for the CIA. He'll know what I'm talking about.
All right.
Play it tough. That's the way they play it and that's the way we're going to play it. Don't lie to Helms and say there's no involvement, but just say this is sort of a comedy of errors, bizarre, without getting into it. Say the President believes it's going to open up the whole Bay of Pigs thing again. Tell Helms he should call the FBI, call Pat Gray, and say that we wish for the sake of the country  don't go any further into this hankypanky, period!
The Bay of Pigs? ... That was Kennedy's screwup. How does that threaten us?
Just do what I say, Bob.
Yes, sir, but ... do you think Gray'll go for it?
Pat Gray'll do anything we ask him. That's why I appointed him.
He'll need a pretext. He'll never figure one out for himself.
Christ, you're right  Gray makes Jerry Ford look like Mozart. Just have Helms call him. Helms can scare anybody.
The only problem with that, sir  it gets us into obstruction of justice.
It's got nothing to do with justice. It's national security.
How is this national security?
Because the President says it is. My job is to protect this country from its enemies, and its enemies are inside the walls.
I suppose you thought the Presidency was above this sort of thing.
Sir?
This isn't a "moral" issue, Bob. We have to keep our enemies at bay or our whole program is gonna go down the tubes. The FBI is filled with people who are pissed that I put Gray in and not one of their own. Vietnam, China, the Soviet Union: when you look at the big picture, Bob, you'll see we're doing a hell of a lotta good in this world. Let's not screw it up with some shitass, thirdrate burglary.
I'll talk to Helms. Oh, Pat asked if you're coming to the Residence for dinner tonight.
No, no, not tonight. Don't let her in here. I have too much to do.
Yes, sir. I'll talk to Helms, and, uh ... what's our press position on this Watergate thing? What do I tell Ziegler to tell them?
... When we consider the lineup of the world, we find there are 590 million people on our side, 800 million on the Communist side, and 600 million who are neutral. The odds are 5 to 3 against us ...
He wouldn't do the makeup. Said it was for queers.
I think ... I think ... that's the sort of very dangerous and irresponsible suggestion that ... helping the Cuban exiles who oppose Castro would, uh ... not only be a violation of international law, it would be ...
He's treading water. Don't mention Khrushchev.
... an open invitation for Mr. Khrushchev to become involved in Latin America. We would lose all our friends in Latin America.
Meanwhile, what happens to the country?
The bastard! If I'd called his shot on Cuba I would've won. He made me look soft.
Where are they?
Dick, you don't have to make a statement. Herb covered it for you.
No!
Cue the crowd. Go to the woman's group. Get the bald guy, he's great ...
I, unlike Senator Kennedy, have a plan to end the war. But not for peace at any price, but peace with honor!
He wasn't protecting me. He was putting me on notice.
What? That he knew Johnny Roselli? Hoover knew a lot of gangsters.
Yeah, but Roselli wasn't just any gangster. He was the gangster who set up Track 2 in Cuba.
I don't understand. Track 2's Chile?
Chile, Congo, Guatemala, Cuba. Wherever's there's a need for an Executive Action capability, there's a Track 2. In Cuba, Track 1 was the Bay of Pigs invasion. Track 2 ... it was our idea. We felt the invasion wouldn't work unless we got rid of Castro. So we asked ourselves  who else wants Castro dead? The Mafia, the money people. So we put together Track 2 ...
The first assassination attempt was in '60, just before the election.
Before?! Eisenhower approved that?
He didn't veto it. I ran the White House side. The mob contact was Johnny Roselli. One of the CIA guys was that jackass, Howard Hunt.
Jesus!
And not just Hunt. Frank Sturgis, all those Cubans. All of them in the Watergate. They were involved in Track 2 in Cuba. Hunt reported to my military aide. But I met with him several times as Vice President. That's what worries the shit out of me. I don't know how much Hunt knows. Or the Cubans.
So? You wanted Castro dead. Everybody wanted Castro dead. If Hunt and the others are CIA, why don't we just throw this back in the CIA's lap? Let Richard Helms take the fall?
Because ... because Dick Helms knows too much ... If anyone in this country knows more than I do, it's Hoover and Helms! You don't fuck with Dick Helms! Period.
Alright. But why, if Kennedy is so clean in all this, didn't he cancel Track 2?
Because he didn't even know about it. The CIA never told him, they just kept it going. It was like ... it had a life of its own. Like ... a kind of "beast" that doesn't even know it exists. It just eats people when it doesn't need 'em anymore. Two days after the Bay of Pigs, Kennedy called me in. He reamed my ass ...
... he'd just found out about Track 2.
You never told him?
I didn't want him to get the credit. He said I'd stabbed him in the back. Called me a twobit grocery clerk from Whittier.
If they didn't tell Kennedy about Track 2, how did Hoover find out?
They had us bugged. Christ, he had everybody bugged. Yeah, he was gonna support me in '68, but he was also threatening me. That was Hoover: he'd give you the carrot, but he'd make damn sure the stick went right up your ass.
Well, one way or the other, Kent State is not good. We have to get out in front of this thing. The PR is going to murder us.
Money. Follow the money.
Sir?
These kids are being manipulated by the Communists. Like Chambers and Hiss.
... never complain, never explain, John ...
I tell you, the soldiers were provoked. Now stop this pussyfooting around. Dead kids! How the hell did we ever give the Democrats a weapon like this? I mean, if Cambodia doesn't work, we'll bomb Hanoi if we have to.
... and we've got the economic guys at five. The Dow lost another 16 points. They're going to want a decision on the budget. Sir? ... Are we holding the line on a balanced budget?
No ... a little deficit won't hurt. Jesus, they're serious. Why're we stopping?
Run 'em over.
Get that little fucker! Great tackle! Reminds me of my days at Whittier. Most of these kids are useless.
Probably flunking, nothing to do except come down here and meet girls. Henry's out there with them.
There's a poison in the upper classes, Bob. They've had it too soft. Too many cars, too many color TVs ...
Don't forget the South, sir, the West. Filled with the good football colleges, straight kids. There's more of 'em with you than against you. Not like these mudmutts.
It's the parents' fault really.
But, hell, this is nothing compared to Venezuela. When I was Vice President, Ike sent me down there like a blocking back. They threw rocks, broke out our windows, almost overturned the car. Read Six Crises, Bob. Boy, Pat was brave!
Yeah, we've got to get our vice president off the golf course and back there on the college circuit. That's top priority.
Mr. President!
It's okay, Bob, we're just rapping, my friends and I. We actually agree on a lot of things ...
We really must go, Mr. President.
Don't forget, the most important thing in your life is your relationship with your Maker ... Don't forget to be on God's side.
She got it, Bob. A nineteenyearold college kid ...
What?
She understood something it's taken me twentyfive fucking years in politics to understand. The CIA, the Mafia, the Wall Street bastards ...
Sir?
... "The Beast." A nineteenyearold kid. She understands the nature of "the Beast." She called it a wild animal.
And his staff. Come on, the copy they were filing from China was great.
Wait till the Maitais wear off.
The Jews aren't the middle, Henry. They're the far left.
You're talking too much about black Africa, Henry. It's killing us with the rednecks.
The blacks are lost, the "schwartzes" are gone ...
Don't let it lose us the rightwing vote ...
Gentlemen, I think it's about time for us to be getting to the airport.
Let him finish, Bob.
You know, they all miss the point. Probably our biggest achievement as an administration, when it's all said and done, isn't China or Russia. It's pulling out of Vietnam without a right wing revolt.
I believe you're right, boss.
... but even the presidency isn't enough anymore ...
Sir?
The presidency won't protect us, Bob. We're beyond politics now ...
Congratulations, boss. A great victory! The madman theory wasn't so crazy after all.
This could be it ... this could be it. Four long years ...
So that explains his press notices. Working both sides of the fence: Jewboy Henry, always trying to get his Nobel Prize, get laid ...
My God, my God! He talked to the New York Times?
We ought to fire his whining ass. Right now when he's on top. You know what  it'll set the right example for the rest of this administration.
Because they're not Americans.
Right. They don't trust! They don't trust America!
Why would they?! Who the hell's Sulzberger anyway? Their parents are gold traders from Eastern Europe. They buy things. They come to Jew York City and they buy up things. One of the things they buy is the New York Times. And you know what? Be proud because they'll never trust you, sir, because we speak for the average American.
You know why they're turning on me? They're not serious about power, that's why. They're playing with power. They're forgetting the national interest. In the old days, people knew how to hold power, how to set limits. They wouldn't have torn this country apart over a thirdrate burglary. All they care about now are their egos, looking good at cocktail parties ...
... beating out the other papers, chasing girls ...
... worrying whether someone said something "nice" about them. All shortterm, frivolous bullshit; Ben Bradlee worrying about Teddy Kennedy liking him ...
You played it perfectly, sir  cocksucker! He's going to think twice before he leaks again.
He'll be looking in his toilet bowl every time he pulls the chain.
We've got to turn the faucet off on this thing. It's out of control ... You might burden just me with this in the future.
It's Helms  it's got to be.
We could leverage Helms.
How?
When I met with him, he said ...
... I was wondering what's such dynamite in this Bay of Pigs story? ... although it was clearly effective, because all of a sudden it was no problem for Helms to go to the FBI and try to put a lid on Watergate.
What about the documents he promised?
He'll give us the documents. But I think he should be offered the ambassadorship to Iran. Then he'll go without a whimper.
I promised Iran to Townsend.
Put Townsend in Belgium; it's available.
Townsend gave us 300 grand. Belgium's not worth more than 100, 150 ...
Helms wants Iran or there might be problems. All of his old CIA buddies are over there making a fortune off the Shah.
For God's sake, when does this end?!
More light, chief?
No ...
... There can be no whitewash at the White House ... two wrongs do not make a right. I love America. God bless America and God bless each and every one of you.
Sir ... six bodies.
This is June twentieth?
It's marked. Also there's June twenty third. And this year  March twenty first. Those are the ones ...
Sorry ...
... go on.
... Y'know Al, if Hoover was alive none of this would've happened. He would've protected the President.
Mr. Hoover was a realist.
I trusted Mitchell. It was that damn big mouth wife of his.
At least Mitchell stood up to it.
Not like the others  Dean, McCord, the rest ... We never got our side of the story out, Al. People've forgotten. I mean: "Fuck you, Mr. President, fuck you Tricia, fuck you Julie!" and all that shit, just words, but what violence! The tear gassing, the riots, burning the draft cards, Black Panthers  we fixed it, Al, and they hate me for it  the double dealing bastards. They lionize that traitor, Ellsberg, for stealing secrets, but they jump all over me 'cause it's Nixon. ... They've always hated Nixon.
May I say something, Mr. President?
There's no secrets here, Al.
You've never been a greater example to the country than you are now, sir, but ... but you need to get out more, sir, and talk to the people. No one I know feels ... close to you.
No, sir, you did not.
Damn right. And there's still a helluva lotta people out there who wanna believe ... That's the point, isn't it? They wanna believe in the President.
You're all set, sir. Just push this button. Good night, Mr. President.
You know, Al, men in your profession ... you give 'em a pistol and you leave the room.
I don't have a pistol.
'Night, Al.
Exactly! We've got to take the war to them. Hit 'em where it hurts  right in the nuts. More assassinations, more killings. Right, Al?
That's what they're doing.
These State Department jerks, Bill, don't understand; you got to electrify people with bold moves. Bold moves make history, like Teddy Roosevelt  "T.R."  rushing up San Juan Hill. Small event but dramatic. People took notice.
It's the President's personal property! I will never give up my tapes to a bunch of Kennedyloving Harvard Democrat cocksuckers!
This could trigger the impeachment. They'll go to the Supreme Court next.
Let 'em try! I appointed three of those bastards! I'm not giving 'em my tapes!
Can the president afford to ignore a subpoena?
Who the fuck does Cox think he is? I never made a dime from public office! I'm honest. My dad died broke. You know the sonofabitch went to law school with Jack Kennedy? ... The last gasp of the Establishment! They got the hell kicked out of 'em in the election, so now they gotta squeal about Watergate 'cause we were the first real threat to them in years. And by God, Al, we would have changed it, changed it so they couldn't have changed it back in a hundred years, if only ...
Congress is considering four articles of impeachment, sir.
For what?!
About a dozen.
A dozen? I got half of 'em elected. I still got the South and Goldwater and his boys. I'll take my chances with the Senate.
Who?
Cox! Fire him.
But he works for the Attorney General. Only Richardson can fire him.
Richardson won't do that. He'll resign.
The hell he will! Fire him, too. If you have to go all the way down to the janitor at the Justice Department, fire the sonofabitch! And ...
... an action that will at last, once and for all, show that what I knew and what I did with regard to the Watergate breakin and coverup were just as I have described them to you from the very beginning ...
He's completely lost touch with reality.
I had no knowledge of the coverup until John Dean told me about it on March twentyfirst. And I did not intend that payment to Hunt or anyone else be made ...
"Victory at Sea," Al ... Henry. The Pacific Theatre. Christ, you can almost feel the waves breaking over the decks.
I'm afraid we have another problem, Mr. President.
June twentythird, '72, sir. The part that's underlined. Your instructions to Haldeman regarding the CIA and the FBI.
So?
Your lawyers feel it's the ... "smoking gun."
It's totally out of context. I was protecting the national security. I never intended 
Sir, the deadline is today.
Can we get around this, Al?
It's the Supreme Court, sir; you don't get around it.
If you resign, you can keep your tapes as a private citizen ... You can fight them for years.
And if I stay?
The army?
Lincoln used it.
That was civil war.
How do you see this?
We can't survive this, sir. They also have you instructing Dean to make the payoff to Hunt.
There is nothing in that statement the President can't explain.
Sir, you talked about opening up the whole "Bay of Pigs" thing again.
That's right ...
Three days before, on the June twentieth tape  the one with the eighteenminute gap 
I don't know anything about that.
... you mentioned the "Bay of Pigs" several times. Sooner or later they're going to want to know what that means. They're going to want to know what was on that gap ...
It's gone. No one will ever find out what's on it.
... they smelled the blood on me this time, Al. I got soft. You know ... that rusty, metallic smell ...
I know it well, sir.
It came over from Vietnam, you know.
Sir?
That smell. I mean, everybody suffered so much, their sons killed. They need to sacrifice something, y'know, appease the gods of war  Mars, Jupiter. I am that blood, General. I am that sacrifice, in the highest place of all ... All leaders must finally be sacrificed.
Colson doesn't know about it; he's pure as a virgin on this one. It's just not clear the burglars knew what they were looking for. They were heading to McGovern's office later that night.
Jesus! Did Mitchell know?
Mitchell's out of his mind now. Martha just put her head through a plateglass window.
Jesus! Through a window?
Martha's an idiot, she'll do anything to get John's attention. If Mitchell'd been minding the store instead of that nut Martha we wouldn't have that kid Magruder runnin' some thirdrate burglary! Was he smoking pot?
Mitchell?
No! Magruder! That sonofabitch tests my Quaker patience to the breaking point.
McCord? ...
Find out what the hell he was doing at "CREEP." This could be trouble. These CIA guys don't miss a trick. This could be a setup.
I don't have time for all this shit! Just handle it, Bob! Keep it out of the White House. What else? Kissinger's waiting  he's gonna throw a tantrum again if I don't see him, threatening to quit ... again.
Well, sir ... it turns out  one of the people implicated is still, you see, on our White House payroll.
Who? Not another goddamn Cuban?
Hunt? Howard Hunt?
He left his White House phone number in his hotel room.
Goddamn! How long have we had this fucking dog?! Two years, he still doesn't come! We need a dog that looks happy when the press is around.
Well, he's photogenic. Let's try dog bones?
I like it. I like the idea.
Is it legal? I mean has anyone ever done it before?
Sure. Lyndon, JFK, FDR  I mean, Truman cut the shit out of my investigation of Hiss back in '48.
Where's Hunt now?
In hiding. He sent Liddy to talk to me.
And?
He wants money.
Pay him.
Pay him? I told him to get out of the country. It's crazy to start ...
What the hell are you doing, Ehrlichman? Screwing with the CIA? I don't care how much he wants  pay him.
It's more than that. It could be more than that. I want Hunt paid.
Uh, we've never done this before, sir ... How do we pay? In ... hundreds? Do you fill a black bag full of unmarked bills?
This is not a joke, John!
No, sir.
We should set up a Cuban defense fund on this; take care of all of them.
Oh, I suppose you would've just let them take over. These aren't fraternity pranks, John. It's anarchy. A revolution!
I don't know if I'd go that far, sir.
Why not?
Is the war worth it? Is it worth a oneterm presidency? Because I think right now that's what we're looking at.
I will not go down as the first American president to lose a war! Going into Cambodia, bombing Hanoi, bombing Laos  it buys us time so we can get out and give the South Vietnamese a fighting chance.
Excuse me ... Are you talking about recognizing China, Mr. President? That would cost us our strongest support.
No ... I can do this because I've spent my whole career building anti Communist credentials.
We can't touch Hoover 
I thought the gloves were off.
 as long as he's got secret files on everybody. I don't want 'em used against us. What about the CIA? Helms's done nothing for us. I want to see him.
The soldiers were provoked. The students started it, for Christ's sake!
Sir, there's dead American kids here. Let's say we don't apologize for Kent State, but maybe we could have a national prayer day ...
He's in the dumps, sir. Agnew. Every time you have him attack the press, they give it back to him in spades. He's become the most hated man in America.
Yeah, good old Spiro. Well, better him than me. What the hell is he but an insurance policy?
He's begging for a meeting, chief. He wants to go overseas for awhile.
Well, no place where they speak English. That way he can always say he was misquoted.
The country's loving it.
The hardcore four million "Nixon nuts" aren't gonna go for it ... They'll say I sold out to the Communists.
No, you didn't, Bob.
Looks like he talked to Joe Kraft ... and to the Times. Told them he was dead set against the bombing, that you were ... "unstable." Claims he has to handle you "with kid gloves" ...
I would personally enjoy doing that, sir.
No, no. He's our only "star" right now. He'd go crying straight to the press. He'd crucify us  the sonofabitch! Get someone from our staff on his ass. Tap his phones. I want to know everyone he talks to.
I end the longest war in American history and they keep harping on this chickenshit! You know who's behind this, don't you  it's Teddy Kennedy! He drowns a broad in his car and he can't run for president.
He got pretty burned at Chappaquiddick.
My point exactly! Somebody had to die before his shit got in the paper! Fucking Kennedys get away with everything. Do you see me screwing everything that moves? For Christ's sake! I did what the New York Times editorial page said we should do! I ended the war, I got SALT I with the Russians, I opened China! So why are these cocksuckers turning on me? Because they don't like the way I look. Where I went to school.
What about England?
Forget it. Ehrenberg's paid three times that much ...
It'll never wash. Pardoning them means we're guilty. The people, the press will go nuts.
And what am I supposed to do? Just sit here and watch them coming closer? Eating their way to the center? Lyndon bugged! So did Kennedy! FDR cut a deal with Lucky Luciano. Christ, even Ike had a mistress! What's so special about me? What about Lyndon? He could make a couple of calls to the Hill and shut this whole thing down. Did anyone talk to him?
I don't know, I don't know ... I just know we've made too many enemies.
Sir, Bob and I are gonna have to testify before Earvin's committee.
No, you're not! You're going to claim executive privilege and you're going to stonewall it all the way  plead the Fifth Amendment. I don't give a shit. They can't force the President's people to testify.
Executive privilege will make it look like we're covering up.
We are covering up! For some petty, stupid shit. There are things I can say  when other people say them, they'd be lies. But when I say them nobody believes me anyway ...
It was her wrist. And it was through a plateglass door.
Anyway, they had to take her to Bellevue. Maybe she'll stay this time.
Let's not forget they're just kids, they don't vote.
It's the fall of the Roman Empire, are you blind? And we're putting fig leaves on the statues ...
Yeah ... Sullivan thinks Henry's leaking. He's the one ...
Yeah, I knew it. I knew it from '69 on, and I said it all along, didn't I ...
Who's gonna tell Mitchell?
You do it.
Why me?
'Cause he hates you. It's worse when you get it from someone you trust.
He's wrong, you know  about Kennedy, LBJ, Truman.
How so?
Sure, they did stuff, but nothing like this, Bob. Forget Watergate, the breakins, the Enemies list. You got an attempted firebombing at the Brookings Institution, planting McGovern stuff on the guy that shot Wallace, trying to slip LSD to Jack Anderson.
The "Old Man" plays politics harder than anybody else.
You think this is just about politics?
It's a code or something.
I figured that out.
I think he means the Kennedy assassination.
Yeah?
They went after Castro. In some crazy way it got turned on Kennedy. I don't think the "P" knows what happened, but he's afraid to find out. It's got him shitting peach pits.
Christ, we created Frankenstein with those fucking Cubans.
Eight words back in '72  "I covered up. I was wrong. I'm sorry"  and the American public would've forgiven him. But we never opened our mouths, John. We failed him.
Dick Nixon saying "I'm sorry"? That'll be the day. The whole suit of armor'd fall off.
So you tell Mitchell ...
I was sorry to hear about your wife.
Yes ... I got the money.
The President would like to know if that was the last payment.
I'll bet he would.
Is it?
In Richard Nixon's long history of underhanded dealings, he has never gotten better value for his money. If I were to open my mouth, all the dominoes would fall.
How the hell do you have the temerity to blackmail the President of the United States?
That's not the question, John. The question is: Why is he paying?
To protect his people.
I'm one of his people. The Cubans are his people. And we're going to jail for him.
Howard, you'll serve no more than two years, then he'll pardon you.
John, sooner or later  sooner, I think  you are going to learn the lesson that has been learned by everyone who has ever gotten close to Richard Nixon. That he's the darkness reaching out for the darkness. And eventually, it's either you or him. Look at the landscape of his life and you'll see a boneyard.
The bigger problem I see is this guy who was arrested, McCord  James McCord  he headed up security for the Committee to ReElect. He turns out to be exCIA.
"ExCIA"? There's no such thing as "exCIA," John  they're all Ivy League Establishment. Is he one of these guys with a beef against us?
So, what about those Watergate clowns, John? This fuck Sirica's crazy. Thirtyfiveyear sentences! There were no weapons. Right? No injuries. There was no success! It's just ridiculous.
Sirica's just trying to force one of them to testify. But they're solid.
Then what about this Washington Post crap? Woodwind and Fernstein?
Mr. President, Hunt wants more money. Another hundredandthirty thousand.
Son of a bitch.
He says if he doesn't get it right away, he's going to blow us out of the water. And he means it. Ever since his wife died in the plane crash, he's been over the edge.
Pay him. Pay him what he wants.
Executive clemency ...
What?
Hunt has nothing to lose now. Pardon all of them. Nobody's going to investigate a crime for which the criminals have already been pardoned.
I like that. That's a solution.
Mitchell? Mitchell's ... family.
Either it goes to Mitchell or it comes here.
How much do you need?
Uh, I would say these people are going to cost a million dollars over the next two years ...
We could get that.
Uh huh ...
We could get a million dollars. We could get it in cash. I know where it could be gotten.
I'm still not confident we can ride through this. Some people are going to have to go to jail. Hunt's not the only problem. Haldeman let me use the $350,000 cash fund in his safe to make the payments. Ehrlichman had a role, a big role, in the Ellsberg breakin. And I'm ... uh, I think it's time we begin to think in terms of cutting our losses.
You say, John, cut our losses and all the rest. But suppose the thing blows and they indict Bob and the others. Jesus, you'd never recover from that, John. It's better to fight it out instead, and not let people testify ...
Sir, I still don't think, uh, we can contain it anymore. There's a cancer on the presidency. And it's growing. With every day that ...
Jesus, everything is a crisis among the upper intellectual types, the softheads. The average people don't think it's much of a crisis. For Christ's sake, it's not Vietnam ... no one's dying here. Isn't it ridiculous?
I agree it's ridiculous but 
I mean, who the hell cares about this pennyante shit. Goldwater put it right. He said: "Well for Christ's sake, everybody bugs everybody else; we know that." ... It's the coverup, not the deed that's really bad here. If only Mitchell could step up and take the brunt of it; give them the hors d'oeuvre and maybe they won't come back for the main course. That's the tragedy of all this. Mitchell's going to get it in the neck anyway. It's time he assumed some responsibility.
He's right. Maybe it's time to go to the hangout route, John. A full and thorough investigation ... We've cooperated with the FBI, we'll cooperate with the Senate. What do we have to hide?
No, we have nothing to hide.
We have nothing to hide. But the only flaw in the plan is that they're not going to believe the truth. That is the incredible thing!
You want me to put it all in writing? Over my signature?
Nobody knows more about this thing than you do, John.
I'm not going to be the scapegoat for this. Haldeman and Ehrlichman are in just as deep as me.
John, you don't want to start down that road. I remember what Whittaker Chambers told me back in '48  and he was a man who suffered greatly  he said, "On the road of the informer, it's always night." This is beyond you or even me. It's the country, John. It's the presidency.
I understand that, sir.
Good. You know how I feel about loyalty. I'm not going to let any of my people go to jail. That I promise you. The important thing is to keep this away from Haldeman and Ehrlichman. I'm trusting you to do that, John. I have complete confidence in you.
Mr. President, I don't know what to say. As soon as we learned from the Secret Service you were en route, the Director was notified. He should be here any minute.
Where the hell is he?
Uh, he's rushing back from his tennis game, sir ...
So ... let's go ...
He told me to take you to his conference room.
No. His office. I want a very private conversation. I don't want to be bugged.
Then his office will be fine.
How's the job coming, Bob?
Frankly, sir, it stinks. I have no access. I'm lucky Helms lets me have a staff.
We'll see about that ...
He's nervous, sir. He's heard you're looking for a new director.
Well, he certainly isn't acting like it.
That's Helms. He's "sang froid," a worldclass poker player.
Yeah? Well, I own the fucking casino.
Sir, the charges are serious  first, abuse of power; second, obstruction of justice; third, failure to cooperate with Congress; and last, bombing Cambodia ...
They can't impeach me for bombing Cambodia. The President can bomb anybody he wants.
Sir, if I may ... echo my concern ...
Then tell Richardson to fire him.
You're lawyers. How can you let this shit go by! Look! This? Nixon can't say this.
You did say it, sir.
Never. I never said that about Jews!
We could check the tape again, sir.
You don't need to check the tape. I know what I said.
For Christ's sake, it soils my mother's memory. Do you think I want the whole goddamn world to see my mother like this? Raising a dirty mouth!
But sir, we'll have to start over from the beginning. We don't have the staff to ...
Your Highness.
How do you do, my friend.
Your Highness, forgive this intrusion, but...
What is it, Rakonin? Did you lose your job?
No, madame, something of the utmost importance... it concerns your jewels.
My jewels?!
I remember one birthday of His Majesty, our beloved Czar... I had the honor of being on guard at the summer palace... I still see you bending before His Majesty... You wore your diadem and a necklace... your face seemed to be lighted by the jewels.
Why do you bring this up after so many years?
They are here!... Your jewels!... Here in Paris!
Alexis! Do you know what you are saying?
This morning three Soviet agents arrived. I overheard a telephone conversation with Mercier, the jeweler. Your Highness, they are going to sell them!
I am sorry... I have to leave.
Thank you so much, my friend. I will get in touch with you.
Where to, madame?
Can you recommend a restaurant?
Well, there's Pruniers if you care for seafood. If you want to lunch in the Bois, there's...
Where do you eat?
At Pre Mathieu's.
Where is that?
It's just a place for workmen.
Where is it?
Eight blocks down in the Rue de Poivrel.
This way, madame. Are you alone? By the window perhaps? Or a nice little corner table?
This will do.
I think this is the first time you have been to my little place. Your face is new to me. Now, what shall it be?
Raw carrots and beets.
Oh, madame! This is a restaurant, not a meadow.
Bring me something simple. I never think about food.
But, madame! If you don't think about food what do you think about?
The future of the common people.
That also is a question of food, madame. I'll bring you a nice little lunch la Pre Mathieu.
Good morning, Comrade.
Good morning, Comrade Commissar. Here is my report on the materials available for trading in the next four months.
Does this include the products of the Far Eastern provinces?
Yes, it does.
You mean you have finished the whole investigation?
Yes.
That's marvelous.... You must have worked day and night.... Don't you ever sleep?
I need very little sleep. We must be extremely careful what goods we take in exchange. I have already started a survey of our most urgent needs.
Well, Comrade, I am afraid you will have to turn over that work to someone else.
May I ask why?
Please... sit down.
Cigarette?
Thank you.
Well, Comrade, have you heard from your friends Kopalski, Buljanoff, and Iranoff?
No.
I haven't either, but I've heard about them. You must realize it was only on the strength of your Paris report that I sent them to Constantinople; without that I never would have trusted them on a mission as important as the fur deal.
May I ask what has happened?
As soon as our representatives go to a foreign country they seem to lose all sense of balance. If I told you what's going on in Constantinople right now you wouldn't believe it. Those three have been sitting there for six weeks and haven't sold a piece of fur. This anonymous report was sent me. They are dragging the good name of our country through every caf and night club. Here... "How can the Bolshevik cause gain respect among the Moslems if your three representatives, Buljanoff, Iranoff, and Kopalski, get so drunk that they throw a carpet out of their hotel window and complain to the management that it didn't fly?"
Oh, they shouldn't do such things. Are you sure this report is correct?
It gives details which couldn't be invented. Naturally I want to verify it and that's why I need you.
You want me to go to Constantinople?
Yes... leaving immediately.
I appreciate the confidence you show in me, but I must ask you to entrust someone else with this mission. I should hate to interrupt my present work. I am positive that my survey is more important than finding out whether three of our comrades have been drinking some extra glasses of champagne.
That is for me to decide, Comrade Yakushova.
I am sorry, I don't want to overstep my position  but please... don't send me.
I don't understand.
How can I make myself clear... It is difficult to express but I'd rather not go to foreign countries any more. Please, Comrade... let me stay here... let me finish my work... I am in the rhythm of it now... I don't want to go away. I don't want to be sent into that foreign atmosphere again. It throws one out of gear.... Let me finish my work... I have concentrated everything in it... Please... don't make me go.
Please don't waste my time, Comrade. Do your duty. Goodby.
I will do my best.
Here, please...
What do you want?
May I have your bags, madame?
Why?
Well... that's my business, madame.
That's no business... that's a social injustice.
That depends on the tip.
Not at all.... I understand perfectly, Count d'Algout gave you a dog. You made it very clear, madame.
Dear me... I must be losing my finesse. If I'm not careful I'll be understood by everybody.
Isn't it amazing! One gets a wrong impression of the new Russia. It must be charming. I'm glad conditions are so improved. I assume this is what the factory workers wear at their dances?
Exactly. You see, it would have been embarrassing for people of my sort to wear lowcut gowns in the old Russia. The lashes of the Cossacks across our backs were not very becoming, and you know how vain women are.
You're absolutely right about the Cossacks. We made an unpardonable mistake when we let them use their knouts. They had such reliable guns.
You're right, madame, it will all be over by Thursday.
It is unfortunate that you have so few more days in Paris. Be sure and redouble your efforts so that madame can take some pleasant memories when she returns to Moscow. Good night. Good night, Leon.
Good morning.
What?
It is tomorrow morning... tomorrow noon, to be exact. I hope you will forgive me. I know it's extremely cruel to waken anyone at such an hour. Don't you recognize me? I am the Duchess Swana.
I think we can cut your visit short. Leon is not here.
Of course not, my dear! I didn't come here with any such suspicion. How ridiculous! Nor did I come here to pick up his hat.
How stale last night's gaiety looks! It has the taste of a dead cigarette.
If you were encouraged to come here by our meeting last night I am afraid you misunderstood my attitude.
Don't worry, you were quite rude enough. Do you mind if I let in a little fresh air and sunshine? I'm sure it will make you feel better and I want you to be at your very best. In full possession of your faculties, at least.
Please come to the point. What is it you want?
I just dropped in to have a little hearttoheart talk with you.
We have nothing to discuss.
Now there you are completely wrong. If we sit down for a little chat, I'm sure we won't run out of conversation and what's more it won't be dull.
Madame, what is it you people always say, regardless of what you mean... "I am delighted to have you here"? I have not reached that stage of civilization.
That's all right... I grow on people.
I must ask you to leave.
Leave? That's exactly what I came here to ask you to do. Leave! I don't mean this hotel and I don't mean Paris... I mean France. There's a plane for Moscow at fiveforty.
Madame, if you...
Don't worry. I have already made reservations. It's perfect flying weather. They assure me there's a fine tail wind which will sweep you back to Moscow in no time.
If this is meant to be a joke it is not funny. Or do you still think you're issuing orders from your palace in Petrograd?
My palace in Petrograd... yes, you took that away from me. You took away my czar, my country, my people, everything I had... but nothing more  I warn you.
People cannot be taken away, madame, neither a hundred and sixty million nor one. Not if you have their love. You hadn't. That's why you're not in Russia any longer, and that's why you came here this morning.
Very interesting, my dear, but couldn't you write all that from Moscow? A dissertation on love on Soviet stationery  would be an amusing paradox.
It is not enough to be witty, madame. People grow tired of being entertained. You made that mistake before. Problems were never solved by bowing from a balcony.
My dear, you don't know how impressive I could be. Did you ever see me in my regalia with my diadem and all my jewels?
You can't deny we gave the people their money's worth  almost  eight tumbling Romanoffs  eight!
I must insist that you leave.
Not before you agree to use those reservations to Moscow.
In that case I can only say goodby.
I wouldn't waken Leon. After last night I would say not before three o'clock at the earliest.
I told you to go, madame.
Believe me, Leon can't help you. He doesn't know anything about the jewels... I give you my word... I swear it.
Where are they?
You were very careless with our precious jewels, my dear. They're too expensive a toy for two children to play with.
Where are they?
Don't worry. Fortunately last night a very trustworthy friend kept his eyes open. Perhaps he overstepped his function as a waiter but he fulfilled his duty as a Russian. I just put this on for sentiment. The rest are absolutely safe. I assure you. But if you feel like notifying the police...
You leave me no choice.
Won't it be rather embarrassing for a Soviet Envoy to disclose the circumstances under which she lost them?
I will have to face the consequences, but so will you. Don't forget they will ask how you got them.
That's very simple to answer. They were given to me by my mother. They were given to her by her mother, in fact they're mine, you cannot steal what belongs to you!
They always belonged to the Russian people. They were paid for with their sweat, their blood, their lives and you will give them back!
I told you we had plenty to talk about. Shall we sit down?
Now, let's free ourselves from emotionalism and try to solve the problem in a practical way. Our situation has changed considerably. Before I had only a claim to the jewels. Now I have the jewels.
In other words moral ideas have no weight with you... all right, then let's deal with legal facts. You know that France has recognized the Soviet.
Unfortunately.
Under Soviet law the jewels belong to the State. France is going to uphold that ownership.
My lawyer agrees with you. He says France will uphold it in every court, but I will drag you through every court, don't forget that. And when I say it will take two years I am, as always, conservative.
Won't those two years in court be expensive for you? I know that money was no object as long as you could squeeze it from the pockets of the people, but now...
I may run out of money, but you have already run out of bread. Two years is a long time for your comrades to wait.
I see. You have calculated in terms of hunger.
No, I just wanted to be absolutely impartial. Both of us are faced with two rather uncomfortable years. We can condense these two years to two minutes if you want to accept my proposition. Ninotchka now realizes what she is after.
Go on.
I am willing to hand over the jewels and sign the necessary papers if you take that fiveforty plane to Moscow.
That's not the way to win him back... not Leon.
I think I know Leon quite as well as you... possibly a little better. Leave that worry to me. Fiveforty leaves you time enough to close the deal with Monsieur Mercier, but naturally you'll be too busy for any farewells. I'll see to it that everything is done in the most expeditious manner and I will also see you to the airport. That's my proposition, Comrade Yakushova.
Hello, Leon!
Good morning, Swana.
It's really a wretched morning... wretched. I can't get myself right. I wanted to look mellow and I look brittle. My face doesn't compose well... all highlights... how can I dim myself down, Leon? Suggest something. I am so bored with this face. I wish I had someone else's face. Whose face would you have if you had your choice? Oh, well, I guess one gets the face one deserves.
Your conversation has one marvelous advantage, Swana. However many questions you ask you never expect an answer.
Don't you find that restful?... Why didn't you come last night?
Darling, I was busy looking out for your interests.
Did you win?
We can forget horse racing, roulette, the stock market... our worries are over! You remember that platinum watch with the diamond numbers? You will be in a position to give it to me.
Oh, Leon, you are so good to me.
We can be rich if you say the word. I had dinner with the Guizots last night.
Those newspaper people?
You'd be surprised how many nice people dine with the Guizots.
What a gruesome proof of the power of the press!
Now listen, Swana... I sold Monsieur Guizot the idea of publishing your memoirs in the Gazette Parisienne. "The Life and Loves of the Grand Duchess Swana of Russia"!
Oh, Leon!
Sweetheart, we won't have to bother about our future if you are willing to raffle off your past!
Was it for this that I refused to endorse Dr. Bertrand's Mouthwash? I could have made a little fortune by saying that the Vincent Vacuum Cleaner was the only vacuum cleaner ever used by the Romanoffs... and now you want them to smear my life's secrets over the front page of a tabloid?
I understand how you feel, but there is a limit to everything, particularly pride and dignity. They are willing to pay any price! They have a circulation of two million!
Imagine two million clerks and shop girls peeking into my life for a sou! Think of my lovely life being wrapped around cheese and blood sausages! I can see a big grease spot in the midst of my most intimate moments!
My little Volga boatman! Stop threatening! I don't deserve this. Are you my little Volga boatman?
Now, Swana...
First tell me, are you my little Volga boatman?
Yes, I'm your little Volga boatman.
Well... two million readers... I know exactly what they want. Chapter One: "A Childhood behind Golden Bars. Lovely Little Princess Plays with Rasputin's Beard."
I've got one chapter Guizot thinks is terrific. "Caviar and Blood." Swana escapes over the ice!
A couple of bloodhounds and we have Uncle Tom's Cabin.
Darling, this would be wonderful! Just once... weren't you attacked by a Bolshevik?
Was I? No... not by a Bolshevik!
Too bad! Brings our price down ten thousand francs!
He's a waiter at the Clarence, poor devil. You know him.
Oh, yes.
Tell him I won't be able to see him for a half an hour.
Did I hear something about jewels?
Rakonin, bless him, has given me the most amazing news!
This is the Duchess Swana... I want to speak to Monsieur Cornillon... it's very important... please get him right away... Hello, Monsieur Cornillon? The most incredible thing has happened! My jewels are here in Paris! Three Bolshevik swine are trying to sell them! Yes... yes... we must act immediately!... Call the police... Have them arrested!... Well, then, get an injunction!... But do something, Monsieur Cornillon! ...But they are my jewels! There must be some way of getting them back!
What does he say?
Shhh! ...But how can there be a question?... Are you my lawyer or theirs?... All right, I'll let you know!
What did he say?
It looks pretty hopeless... there may be a chance... that's all... The French Government has recognized Soviet Russia and he doubts that they will risk a war for my poor sake. He might be able to make up some kind of a case but it would cost money, money, money!... That's all they are interested in  those lawyers!
Darling, calm down. Why do you need a lawyer? Haven't you your little Volga boatman?
Leon! What in heaven's name...!
Huh?
Is anything wrong? Are you ill?
No.
Don't tell me the bed has lost its best friend.
I just couldn't sleep. I got up and went back... and then got up again. These last few days... whew!
Darling, you're taking my business affairs far too seriously. Much as I'd love to rob the Bolsheviks of their filthy money, I won't do it at the expense of your health. Particularly as we know we won't get much. You look so pale... pale but interesting.
Make it ice cold.
Not in your condition. Make it tepid, Gaston... tepid and tender. And lay out his gray suit. Afterwards I'll drive you through the Bois. Slowly... in Waltz time.
Now... here we have two very handsome softboiled eggs. Do you suppose hens mind what happens to their eggs? Probably not. They have such unfeeling eyes. We'll put in a great nugget of butter, plenty of pepper and salt... Darling, I haven't seen you for three livelong days... seventytwo hours!
Oh, please, Swana! I don't know whether I'm standing on my head or my heels. Here you are blaming me for neglecting you when I'm trying to concentrate on another woman and can't get near her.
You haven't seen her yet?
No, and believe me I've tried everything! I must have telephoned her a hundred times. I've sent her telegrams, I've sent her flowers... I asked her to dinner... I offered her seats for the Opera...
That proletarian! In the old days we'd have had her flogged.
That wouldn't have done any good. Not with her. She's the most incredible creature I've ever seen.
You just told me you hadn't seen her.
Well... er... I caught a glimpse of her when she walked through the lobby.
Imagine the carpets of a self respecting Parisian hotel dirtied by the boots of a muzhik! What does she look like?
You can't imagine.
That bad? Old or young?
Timeless. When she comes into a room you'd think that the Bolsheviks had taken over Paris. She wears her cheap miserable blouse as though it were the latest model by Schiaparelli. What a woman! What a woman! There is a Russian snowstorm in each of her eyes.
You saw all that in one glimpse?
Darling, if we're going to get anywhere someone has to keep his eyes open!
Now, darling, soak in your beautiful pine bath and let Gaston shave you.
Thank you.
Is this your new dress suit?
Yes, Swana.
Didn't I tell you Benson and Benson were the tailors for you?
Yes, Swana, you did.
It's a dream of beauty. He never takes my word for anything, but I was right, wasn't I?
Yes, Swana.
Am I interrupting?
Not at all. Your Highness, may I present Madame Yakushova?
How do you do?
I've some wonderful news for you, Leon. It's about Punchy... do you mind if I sit down?
No... please...
He won another blue ribbon and bit the judge. Ha! ha! ha! I bought him the cutest sweater as a reward. You should see him strut down the street in it. He looks like a little boulevardier. You see, Count d'Algout gave me Punchy for my birthday. You must have searched weeks before you found anything as divine as Punchy, didn't you, Leon?
Months, Swana.
Poor Madame Yakushova... here we are talking in mysteries.... I'm sure you wonder what it's all about.
There's a charming crowd here tonight, isn't there?
I'm going, Leon... but before I leave I must compliment you on your gown, Madame Yakushova. Is that what they're wearing in Moscow this year?
Will you do me a favor? Stop talking about the good old days.
A very wise suggestion, Leon. I'm afraid madame and I will never agree. The only thing we have in common is our lawsuit and that will be decided next week. I understand everything will be over by Thursday. Am I right?
Leon, darling, how nice! Have you ordered tea or a cocktail?
No thanks, Swana.
Did I act stupidly last night? Should I apologize?
I'm the one who should apologize. I should have talked to you before.
Is this, by any chance, going to be a confession?
Yes.
Oh, no, my little Volga boatman. Have you forgotten our First Commandment: Never Complain  Never Explain. It has worked so often and so perfectly, don't let's break the rule. And please don't look so guilty, otherwise I'll...
This time, Swana  just this once  I must ask you to listen.
All right, I'll listen.
I know you hate the obvious but do you mind if, at this moment, I'm not in the least subtle?
Brutal frankness, if you insist.
There are a hundred ways to approach it, but I feel it can best be said in one simple phrase. I'm in love, Swana.
And I thought it was something serious! How could you frighten me so?
It must be serious, Swana. Not long ago I'd have considered such a statement rather juvenile and rather middle class. Now I can say it without stammering, without a blush. I'm in love, Swana.
Say it over and over again, Leon. Words are a wonderful safety valve, and that's what you need  because you know it's impossible, don't you?
I have to be simple again, Swana, and you may find it shockingly banal. I've thought it over and I'm willing to take all the consequences, even if it means a complete readjustment of my way of living.
Leon! This has the ugly sound of regeneration.
I'm afraid that's what it is.
The same old trouble, Leon. You're always late. Whether you're taking me to the Opera or calling for me at a beauty shop, you're never on time. And now, when it's a question of your reform  late again. By about five minutes.
What is this, Swana?
Knowing the efficiency of the French Air Service I think I can guarantee that Madame Yakushova has already taken off for Moscow.
Has done what?
She's gone, Leon.
Do you expect me to believe that?
Hello, Leon darling!
Hello.
After our talk last night I took it for granted that you would drop in here this morning. Knowing how difficult it is to get into Soviet Russia, I thought I might be of some assistance to you. May I introduce myself? I am the Duchess Swana of Russia... another Russia.
Now, please, Swana.
Count d'Algout was for several years my personal representative and if it is necessary to sign any affidavit for him I'll be delighted.
That does it, Swana. Now you mustn't miss your appointment with your hairdresser.
Just in case they don't give you your visa to Russia I want you to know that I have signed a contract for my memoirs and rented a lovely little chteau in the Touraine, and if you feel the need of a change...
Thank you, Swana. You are very gracious.
You, please.
Me?
Yes. Could you give me some information?
Gladly.
How long do we have to wait here?
Well  until the policeman whistles again.
At what intervals does he whistle?
What?
How many minutes between the first and second whistle?
That's funny. It's interesting. I never gave it a thought before.
Have you never been caught in a similar situation?
Have I? Do you know when I come to think about it it's staggering. If I add it all up I must have spent years waiting for signals. Imagine! An important part of my life wasted between whistles.
In other words you don't know.
No.
Thank you.
You're welcome.
Can I help you?
You might hold this for me.
Love to.
Correct me if I am wrong... We are facing north, aren't we?
Facing north... I'd hate to commit myself without my compass... Pardon me... are you an explorer?
No... I am looking for the Eiffel Tower.
Is that thing lost again?... Listen... if you are interested in a view...
I am interested in the Eiffel Tower from a technical standpoint.
Technical... I couldn't help you from that angle. You see, a real Parisian only goes to the top of the tower in moments of despair to jump off.
How long does it take a man to land?
Now, isn't that too bad! The last time I jumped I forgot to clock it! Let me see... Eiffel Tower... Your finger, please.
Why do you need my finger?
Bad manners to point with your own... Here... the Eiffel Tower.
And where are we?
Here... here we are... here you are and here I am... feel it?
I am interested only in the shortest distance between these two points. Must you flirt?
I don't have to but I find it natural.
Suppress it.
I'll try.
For my own information would you call your approach toward me typical of the local morale?
Madame, it is that kind of approach which has made Paris what it is.
You are very sure of yourself, aren't you?
Nothing has occurred recently to shake my confidence.
I have heard of the arrogant male in capitalistic society. It is having a superior earning power that makes you like that.
A Russian! I love Russians! Comrade... I have been fascinated by your Five Year Plan for the past fifteen years!
Your type will soon be extinct.
The foundation is one hundred and fortyone yards square... I hope you'll forgive me but I thought you'd...
Go ahead.
Four massive piers of masonry are sunk to a depth of fortysix feet on the side of the Seine, and twenty nine and onehalf feet on the other side. The girders of interlaced iron work which stay the structure have an inclination of fiftyfour degrees...
That's a strange angle.
Yes, very strange.
You gave me some very valuable information. Thank you.
And thank you for getting me up here. I've never seen this before. Beautiful, isn't it?
Yes, it is.
I'm glad I saw it before becoming extinct.
Do not misunderstand me. I do not hold your frivolity against you. As basic material you might not be bad, but you are the unfortunate product of a doomed culture. I feel sorry for you.
You must admit that this doomed old civilization sparkles... It glitters!
I do not deny its beauty, but it is a waste of electricity.
What a city! There are the Grands Boulevards... blasted out of the heart of the old streets. The Arc de Triomphe... made to greet Napoleon's army. The Opera! And Montmartre... Montparnasse... La Bohme... and now I'll show you the greatest attraction! It will cost me a franc but it is worth it. The most wonderful spot in all Paris  unique! Here, look.... What do you see?
I see a house that looks like any other house. What's remarkable about it?
It's not the structure but the spirit which dwells within. There are three rooms and a kitchenette dedicated to hospitality.
So that is your house?
Well, let's say I live in it. Such a pleasant place... all kinds of comfort, easy to reach, close to street car, bus, and subway...
Does that mean that you want me to go there?
Please don't misunderstand me...
Then you don't want me to go there.
Now I didn't say that either... naturally nothing would please me more.
Then why don't we go? You might be an interesting subject of study.
I will do my best.
Is this what you call the "butler"?
Yes.
Good evening, comrade. This man is horribly old. You should not make him work.
He takes good care of that.
He looks sad. Do you whip him?
No, though the mere thought makes my mouth water.
The day will come when you will be free. Go to bed, little father. We want to be alone.
Well, may I offer you a drink, or how about something to eat?
Thank you. I've had all the calories necessary for today.
What do we do now?
We take off our hat and coat. We sit down  we make ourselves comfortable. We adjust ourselves to the prospect of a most enjoyable evening. We look at each other. We smile. Well... we don't smile. How about some music?
Is that customary?
It helps. It has ever since King David wooed Bathsheba with the harp. As I am not so fortunate as to have my harp at hand, I shall turn on the radio.
I should say this room is eighteen by twentyfive.
Not too big and not too small. What I'd call the typical room of an average man. Or shall we say a little above average. Now if there are any special aspects you wish to study I have nothing to conceal. Just look around. That's my desk. Those are my books, and here am I. Where shall we begin?
I will start with you.
That's great. I'm thirtyfive years old. Just over six feet tall. I weigh a hundred and eightytwo pounds stripped.
And what is your profession?
Keeping my body fit, keeping my mind alert, keeping my landlord appeased. That's a fulltime job.
And what do you do for mankind?
For mankind not a thing  for womankind the record is not quite so bleak.
You are something we do not have in Russia.
Thank you. Thank you.
That is why I believe in the future of my country.
I begin to believe in it myself since I've met you. I still don't know what to make of it. It confuses me, it frightens me a little, but it fascinates me, Ninotchka.
You pronounce it incorrectly. Ni notchka.
Ninotchka.
That is correct.
Ninotchka, do you like me just a little bit?
Your general appearance is not distasteful.
Thank you.
Look at me. The whites of your eyes are clear. Your cornea is excellent.
Your cornea is terrific. Tell me  you're so expert on things  can it be that I'm falling in love with you?
You are bringing in wrong values. Love is a romantic designation for a most ordinary biological, or shall we say chemical, process. A lot of nonsense is talked and written about it.
Oh, I see. What do you use instead?
I acknowledge the existence of a natural impulse common to all.
What can I possibly do to encourage such an impulse in you?
You don't have to do a thing. Chemically we are already quite sympathetic.
You're the most improbable creature I've ever met in my life, Ninotchka, Ninotchka...
You repeat yourself.
I'd like to say it a thousand times.
Don't do it, please.
I'm at a loss, Ninotchka. You must forgive me if I appear a little old fashioned. After all, I'm just a poor bourgeois.
It's never too late to change. I used to belong to the petty bourgeoisie myself. My father and mother wanted me to stay and work on the farm, but I preferred the bayonet.
The bayonet? Did you really?
I was wounded before Warsaw.
Wounded? How?
I was a sergeant in the Third Cavalry Brigade. Would you like to see my wound?
I'd love to. Tsk, tsk, tsk.
A Polish lancer. I was sixteen.
Poor Ninotchka. Poor, poor Ninotchka.
Don't pity me. Pity the Polish lancer. After all, I'm alive.
What kind of a girl are you, anyway?
Just what you see. A tiny cog in the great wheel of evolution.
You're the most adorable cog I ever saw in my life. Ninotchka, Cogitska, let me confess something. Never did I dream I could feel like this toward a sergeant.
Do you hear that?
It's twelve o'clock.
It's midnight. One half of Paris is making love to the other half. Look at the clock. One hand has met the other hand. They kiss. Isn't that wonderful?
That's the way a clock works. There's nothing wonderful about it. You merely feel you must put yourself in a romantic mood to add to your exhilaration.
I can't possibly think of a better reason.
It's false sentimentality.
You analyze everything out of existence. You analyze me out of existence. I won't let you. Love is not so simple. Ninotchka, Ninotchka, why do doves bill and coo? Why do snails, coldest of all creatures, circle interminably around each other? Why do moths fly hundreds of miles to find their mates? Why do flowers open their petals? Oh, Ninotchka, Ninotchka, surely you feel some slight symptom of the divine passion... a general warmth in the palms of your hands... a strange heaviness in your limbs... a burning of the lips that is not thirst but a thousand times more tantalizing, more exalting, than thirst?
Was that talkative?
No, that was restful. Again.
Thank you.
Oh, my barbaric Ninotchka. My impossible, unromantic, statistical...
Glorious, analytical...
The telephone is ringing.
Oh, let it ring.
But one of your friends may be in need of you. You must answer.
I must go.
Ninotchka, or shall I say Special Envoy Yakushova...
Let's forget that we ever met.
I have a better suggestion. Let's forget that the telephone ever rang. I never heard that you are Yakushova... you are Ninotchka... my Ninotchka...
I was sent here by my country to fight you.
All right, fight me, fight me as much as you want, but fight me tomorrow morning! There's nothing sweeter than sharing a secret with a bitter enemy.
As a representative of Moscow...
Tonight let's not represent anybody but ourselves.
It is out of the question. If you wish to approach me...
You know I want to...
Then do it through my lawyer!
Ninotchka, you can't walk out like this... I'm crazy about you, and I thought I'd made an impression on you. You liked the white of my eye.
But, Ninotchka, I held you in my arms. You kissed me!
I kissed the Polish lancer too... before he died.
Room service speaking.
Send me a plate of raw carrots and beets, beets predominating on a ratio of sixtyforty... What? There is a strike in the kitchen? Good! Will you assure the strikers of my hearty sympathy in their cause. I hope they will not weaken in their demands and tell them to put no dressing whatsoever on my vegetables... What? You won't serve me either? Now look here, Comrade, I think it is a fine idea to let the capitalists go without luncheon but when you keep food away from me you're weakening the people.
So! You want to make a strike breaker out of me! I am surprised at you, Comrade! Is it too much for the workers of the world to ask you to walk around the corner for lunch? All I can say to you is take your hammer and sickle and get out of that Royal Suite!
Pardon me for addressing you but you insulted him, you know that. You hurt his feelings. It was just like telling a musician you don't like music. That good old man believes in food as you believe in Karl Marx. You can't go around hurting people, Comrade Yakushova, but maybe you can make it up to him. Do you know how? By eating everything with relish, by drinking everything with gusto, by having a good time for the first time in your natural life!
I don't like your following me.
I didn't follow you.
Then how did you get here?
I always eat here.
This is a place for workmen.
But my dear child, I am most at home among working men. I hate the places where you circulate  the Hotel Clarence... This is my natural element. After all, what are any of us? Workingmen! At least, those of us who are worth our salt. Hyah?
Just an old man. His memory is getting weak.
What are you after?
Must one always be after something?
Your tactics are useless. My name is neither Buljanoff, Iranoff, nor Kopalski.
Oh, Ninotchka, who wants to talk business. If you win the suit, fine. If we win the suit, better. You do me an injustice. When we went to my apartment did I have the slightest idea that you had any connection with this deal?
But you have now, and I know now that you are a man who employs business methods which in Russia would be punished by death.
Death! Death! Always so glum! What about life, Ninotchka! Do Russians never think of life? Of the moment in which we are living? The only moment we really have? Don't take it all so seriously, Ninotchka. Nothing is worth it. Please... relax... I beg you, Sergeant... smile!
What?
Will you smile?
Why?
Just smile.
At what?
At anything. At the whole ludicrous spectacle of life. At people being pompous and taking themselves seriously and exaggerating their own importance. If you can't find anything else to laugh at you can laugh at you and me.
Why?
Because we are an odd couple.
Then you should go back to your table.
No, I can't leave you. I won't. Not yet. Not until I've made you laugh... at least once.
Ha! Ha! Now go back.
That's not a laugh! I mean a laugh from the heart. Now let's see. I'm going to tell you a funny story. Just a moment... I've got it! Well, it seems there were a couple of Frenchmen who went to America...
On which boat?
Well, er... let's drop it. I don't think you would care for that one.
Probably not.
Do you like Scotch stories?
I have never heard one.
Two Scotchmen met on the street... and I don't know the name of the street and it really doesn't matter. Well, anyway, one's name was McIntosh and the other's was McGillicuddy. McIntosh says to McGillicuddy, "Hello, Mr. McGillicuddy," and McGillicuddy says to McIntosh, "Hello, Mr. McIntosh," and then McIntosh says to McGillicuddy, "How is Mrs. McGillicuddy?" and then McGillicuddy says to McIntosh, "How is Mrs. McIntosh?"...
I wish they had never met.
So do I. Now, here's a great one... Ha! Ha! Ha! Well, maybe it's not so good. Let's forget it! How's this? Two men are looking at the moon. One says to the other, "Is it true that a lot of people live on the moon?" "Yes, it is," says the other, "five hundred million." "Whew!" replies the first, "they must get pretty crowded when it's half moon!" Ha! Ha! Ha!
I suppose you don't think that's funny?
No.
It seemed funny to me when I first heard it. Maybe the trouble isn't with the joke. Maybe it's with you!
I don't think so.
Maybe you haven't any sense of humor. Well, I'll give you one more chance! Now listen!
Not funny, huh?
No.
So you don't think that's funny? It is funny! Everyone else thinks so! Maybe you didn't get it.
I'll tell you that joke again. A man comes into a restaurant. Did you get that?
Yes.
He sits down at the table and says to the waiter... Did you get that too?
Yes.
Well, so far it isn't funny, but wait. He says to the waiter, "Waiter! Bring me a cup of coffee." So the waiter comes back five minutes later and says, "I'm sorry, sir, we have no coffee."... Wait a minute... wait a minute... I'm all mixed up... A man comes in a restaurant, he sits down, he calls the waiter and he says, "Waiter! Get me a cup of coffee without cream," and five minutes later the waiter comes back and says, "I'm sorry, sir, we have no cream, can it be a glass of milk!"
I don't look too foolish?
Foolish? If this dress were to walk down the boulevard all by itself I would follow it from one end of Paris to the other, and when I caught up with it I would say, "Just a moment, you charming little dress, I want you to meet Ninotchka... you two were meant for each other." Ninotchka feels more comfortable.
You remember this room?
I've never been here before. I wonder whom you're thinking of. Oh, I know, a girl with a map, figuring out each step, worrying about north and south. Today... now this might shock you... I went up to a taxi and said "Eight Rue du Bois"... and here I am.
You see? Life can be so simple.
For twelve francs, seventyfive.
Twelve seventyfive from the Clarence? The sonofagun made a detour!... But he got you here.
It's nine o'clock.
That's when one half of Paris says to the other half, "What are your plans for this evening, madame?"
Well, first I should like to take off my hat and jacket. Then could we have some music?
A wonderful idea! Radio or records?
Not radio. Let's have music that's just for ourselves.
You see I couldn't shout that.
Leon, you know the jokes you told me a few days ago? I wake up in the middle of the night and laugh at them. Now, Leon that's wrong. I know they're not funny, they're silly. They're stupid. And still... I laugh... and when I look at Buljanoff and Iranoff and Kopalski I know they are scoundrels and I should hate them  then I realize who made them like that, and instead of sending my report to Moscow I tear it up and go down and buy a ridiculous hat... and if this keeps on... am I too talkative?
No... go on.
Leon, I want to tell you something which I thought I never would say, which I thought nobody ever should say, because I thought it didn't exist... and, Leon... I can't say it...
Leon, I would like to ask you something.
Anything, Ninotchka.
If you don't want to answer, you needn't. But if you do, you must tell me the truth.
I promise... I swear.
Did you make any change in this room?
I don't think so.
When I was here before I noticed a photograph of a woman on the desk in a wide silver frame. I thought what a waste of silver. That's all that interested me then. Now I would like to know... what happened to the woman?
She is very attractive. She has great elegance. She's what you call a woman of the world, isn't she?
Ninotchka, I love you.
I suppose she is very entertaining... It must be lots of fun to be with her, so witty, so glamorous...
Ninotchka, you're jealous.
Leon, don't ever ask me for a picture of myself... I couldn't bear the thought of being shut up in a drawer... I couldn't breathe, I couldn't stand it.
My darling.
I wouldn't know. The closest I ever came to champagne was in a newsreel. The wife of some president was throwing it at a battleship.
It's always good luck to launch something with champagne; a battleship... or an evening.
It's funny to look back. I was brought up on goat's milk, I had a ration of vodka in the army, and now champagne.
From goats to grapes. That's drinking in the right direction.
From what I read I thought champagne was a strong drink. It's very delicate. Do people ever get drunk on this?
There have been cases... but the headache the next morning is worth while  if you drink it with the right toast. To us, Ninotchka!
How do you do?
And General Savitzky.
Quickly, please... tell me one of your funny stories.
A funny story?
You never finished the one about the two Scotchmen with the names.
Well, there were two Scotchmen. One was named McIntosh and one was named McGillicuddy. They met on the street.
Go on.
No, darling. I'll tell you another story, a much better one. The only thing that will be over on Thursday is the lawsuit. There will be no Thursday for us. Not next week or any week. We won't let it happen. I'll tear it out of the calendar. Is that a good story?
Wonderful  if one could believe it.
You must, darling.
To the loveliest story I ever heard.
Oo! Darling! Something is the matter.
You just made that trip from goats to grapes a little too fast.
Oh, everything is so wonderful! It's getting farther and farther away!
What, darling?
Thursday.
Yes. Don't worry. Everything will be all right.
Comrades! Comrades!
Darling, darling... please!
I must talk to my brothers!
Shhh! Shhh!
Don't shush me. I am People! I want to make a speech. I want to overthrow the Duchess!
But, darling, you can't do that.
Comrades! Good people of France!
Now, Ninotchka... please!
They are all Duchesses here... thousands of Duchesses... and I am going to tell them.
Quite right... yes, yes, yes, but first you're going in that door and you're going to take a little spirits of ammonia and lie down.
No speech?
No speech.
I love you, my little Leonitchka!
And I adore you, Ninotchua.
Don't tell them where we're going, sweetheart.
No. Nobody will find us.
Are we going to build our little house?
Yes... a little white house.
Not white, darling.
All right, we'll make it red.
No, don't let's have it any color... no color... just a house house... let's form our own party.
Right: Lovers of the world unite!
And we won't stretch up our arms...
No! No!
...and we won't clench our fist...
No! No!
Our salute will be a kiss.
Yes... a kiss... salute!
I am so happy. No one can be so happy without being punished. I will be punished and I should be punished. I want to confess, darling.
I know... it's the Russian soul.
Everyone wants to confess and if they don't confess they make them confess. I am a traitor. When I kissed you I betrayed the Russian ideal. Leon, I should be stood up against the wall.
Would that make you any happier?
Much happier.
All right.
I have paid the penalty. Now let's have some music.
Let's turn on the radio.
Radio! What is radio?
It's a little box that you buy on the installment plan and before you tune it in they tell you they have a new model.
Oh yes, yes. It has a little knob that turns... a little knob... it must be somewhere around here... yes... here... I see...
What shall we get? The news!
No, no news. We don't want to know what's happening in the world. We want to be left alone, don't we?
Yes, sweetheart... all by ourselves.
Well, then we turn twice to the right and stop at seven...
It's dead.
Well, it has to warm up... you have to give it a chance... just like people... like you and me... first you wanted to fight me and now we belong to the same party... salute!
No music.
No, no music.
There it is... Thursday... you can't rip it out of the week....
But I can throw it out of the window.
It wouldn't be fair to the man in the street. There they are... they are terrible things, those jewels....
...but big.
...they are the tears of Old Russia... see that stone?
Who cried that one?
Czar Peter gave it to his wife, Catherine the Great. For it he sold ten thousand serfs in the market.
Now, darling, don't get impatient, wait until we are married. You know that worthless butler of mine... that reactionary? Some day when I come home to you I may say, "Darling, I drove Gaston to the market and look what I got from him!"
Come, sweetheart. Let me put it on you. You will teach these jewels. For the first time they will learn how they can look.
They belong to the people.
I give them back to the people... I make you Ninotchka the Great... Duchess of the People!... Grand Duchess of the People!
Is this the wish of the masses?
It is their wish.
Thank you, Leon... thank you, masses. Can I make a speech now?
Please.
Comrades! People of the world! The revolution is on the march... I know... wars will wash over us... bombs will fall... all civilization will crumble... but not yet, please... wait, wait... what's the hurry? Let us be happy... give us our moment.... We are happy, aren't we, Leon?
Yes, sweetheart.
So happy and so tired.
They wouldn't let me in so I had to get you out.
So  you're behind all this. I should have known.
Trying to keep me away from you! It couldn't be done. Naturally I couldn't go on forever punching passport officials in the nose  but I found a way, didn't I? Darling, I had to see you. I wrote and wrote but all my letters came back.
The one I got they wouldn't let me read. It began, "Ninotchka, my darling," and ended, "Yours, Leon."
I won't tell you what came between... I'll prove it. It will take a long time, Ninotchka... at least a lifetime.
But, Leon, I am only here for a few days.
If you don't stay with me, I'll have to continue my fight. I'll travel wherever Russian commissions are. I'll turn them all into Buljanoffs, Iranoffs, and Kopalskis. The world will be crowded with Russian restaurants. I'll depopulate Russia. Once you saved your country by going back. This time you can save it by staying here.
Well, when it is a choice between my personal interest and the good of my country, how can I waver? No one shall say Ninotchka was a bad Russian.
Pardon me, I am very interested in what you just said  you mean when an envoy goes back to Russia  if they don't like what he has done they put him out of the way?
Not always... look at me... I've been back twice.
Here's my passport.... Please give me a visa. I have to leave for Russia immediately.
Count Leon d'Algout... a count!... a nobleman!
Don't hold that against me... please!
Why should an aristocrat want to go to Russia?
Business.
What business?
Private.
There is no privacy in Russia. This whole thing seems very suspicious. What's the real reason? If you ever want to get into Russia, take my advice... confess!
Confess what?
Are you sympathetic to the former Czaristic government  the White Russians?
On the contrary  I don't want to have anything to do with them.
You believe in our cause?
She must have her little joke. You're not going to take that seriously.
The Grand Duchess Swana... active in the White Russian movement?
Believe me, I have no connection with her any longer... I swear I haven't!
But you had!
Listen, I want to be absolutely frank with you. I have no business in Moscow.
I think so too.
I want to see a friend of mine... a very dear friend.... It's a personal matter which has nothing to do with politics or social philosophies.... It's a girl.
So it's love which drags you to Moscow.
Yes!
No visa.
I must get into that country of yours!
Oh no. No visa.
That's impossible! Nobody has the right.... You can't do that!... If you don't give me that visa...
You're going to force us... huh?
Now look here... you advertise all over the world that you want people to go into your country and when someone tries to get in, you keep him out!
Why should I take a chance?
On what?
How do I know you don't want to blow up a factory?
What for... why?
Or a tunnel or a bridge...
Suspicions... nothing but suspicions!... That's the trouble with you! If you don't let me in I'll stand in front of this office of yours and warn people to keep away from Russia!... I'll picket your whole country....
Give me another double brandy.
That kind of propaganda is bad anywhere, but inciting the attendants of a powder room to go on strike.... Well, if she succeeds the consequences will be disastrous.
What can I do about it?
She has been asked to leave the powder room but without success. We would appreciate if you would see to it yourself.
You want me to go in there?
I'm sorry, sir, but I must insist.
I'm sorry, gentlemen. The other day I heard such a funny story... It still makes me laugh. It is very funny. I am sorry. Oh yes... about this injunction...
The hearing is set for the twentieth of this month.
That's two weeks from Thursday...
We did our utmost to have it set ahead.
I know, gentlemen, but it is in the hands of the Court. We're helpless, aren't we?
Yes. It is unfortunate.
Well, there's nothing we can do about it. Why get excited?
We'll leave these papers here for your further consideration. Au revoir, madame.
Au revoir.
If we had known we would have greeted you with flowers.
Don't make an issue of my womanhood. We are here for work... all of us. Let's not waste time. Shall we go?
He is a porter. He wants to carry them.
Why?... Why should you carry other people's bags?
Allow me, Comrade.
No, thank you.
What's that?
It's a hat, Comrade, a woman's hat.
I am ashamed to put the picture of Lenin in a room like this. Comrades, your telegram was received with great disfavor in Moscow.
We did our best, Comrade.
I hope so for your sake. Let us examine the case. What does the lawyer say?
We dealt directly with the representative of the Grand Duchess. I am sure if we call him he will give you a very clear picture.
I will not repeat your mistake. I will have no dealings with the Grand Duchess nor her representative.
Will you send me some cigarettes, please? Comrades, I am not in a position to pass final judgment but at best you have been careless in your duty to the State. You were entrusted with more than a mere sale of jewelry. Why are we peddling our precious possessions to the world at this time? Our next year's crop is in danger and you know it. Unless we can get foreign currency to buy tractors there will not be enough bread for our people. And you three comrades...
We did it with the best intentions...
We cannot feed the Russian people on your intentions. Fifty per cent to a socalled Duchess!... Half of every loaf of bread to our enemy! Comrade Kopalski, go at once to our Embassy and get the address of the best lawyer in Paris.
Yes, Comrade.
You, Comrade Iranoff, go to the Public Library and get me the section of the Civil Code on property.
I acted on your suggestion and got in touch with the Power and Light authorities. Whenever you want to visit their plants they are open to you.
Oh yes, Power and Light. Thank you.
If there is anything we can do for you...
No, not a thing. Would you like to go out?
How are you, you three scoundrels?
Well, we're back home.
And your own gas cooker? That's marvelous! Naturally it's not the Royal Suite...
Sssh! Once and for all, we're in Moscow!
Yes, there's no doubt of that... Just look out of the window and there it is.
And it's great! Think what it was a few years ago and what it is now.
The same spring we had in Paris. Just as good.
Even the swallows are back.
Now, comrades... there is something better in life than crumbs of French pastry.
Yes, a good piece of apfel strudel....
We will get that... we'll get everything... maybe a little bit later but we'll get it... We must be patient... Finally we got the spring, didn't we? We got the swallows, and you will get your apfel strudel too.
...and Kopalski.
Don't make it difficult for me. This is no more a pleasure trip for me than it is for you.
Now, monsieur, you have no right...
Just a moment. I hope you haven't closed this deal, Monsieur Mercier. It might bring you into serious difficulties.
We may have a chance.
Yes... a very slim one. I want to be fair. I don't deny that you might make out some kind of a case.
We haven't anything to discuss with you. We'll talk to a lawyer!
All right  go ahead... you talk to the lawyer and I'll talk to the judge!
How does this strike you? Commissar Razinin, Board of Trade, Moscow. Unexpected situation here. Duchess Swana in Paris claims jewels, and has already brought injunction against sale or removal. After long and careful study we suggest in the interest of our beloved country a fiftyfifty settlement as best solution. Iranoff, Buljanoff, and Kopalski.
If we say that, Leon... we'll be sent to Siberia!
What's new?
Leon, Leonitchka, she is not going to negotiate! She is going to fight that injunction. She's going to make a precedent of it!
Well, boys, I'd like to help you but what can I do? Yesterday I waited six hours in the lobby!
She doesn't leave her room! She has been locked in for the last two days with lawyers and law books!
All right, then make an appointment with her so I can see her!
We can't... but you are so ingenious, Leon...
Yes, monsieur?
Just looking around.
This is Comrade Kopalski.
Monsieur.
I might be able to accommodate you. Is there some more luggage?
Oh, yes, but have you a safe here big enough to hold this?
I'm afraid we have no boxes of that size in our vault, but there is one suite with a private safe...
That's even better.
But, gentlemen, I am afraid...
A Special Envoy is coming from Moscow. He'll occupy the Royal Suite. Move our things to the smallest room you've got.
Yes, monsieur.
Right away... instantly!
I am looking for Michael Simonovitch Iranoff.
I am Michael Simonovitch Iranoff.
I am Nina Ivanovna Yakushova, Envoy Extraordinary, acting under direct orders of Comrade Commissar Razinin. Present me to your colleagues.
Comrade Buljanoff...
Comrade.
Comrade Kopalski...
Comrade.
What a charming idea for Moscow to surprise us with a lady comrade.
How much does this cost?
Two thousand francs.
A week?
A day.
Do you know how much a cow costs, Comrade Iranoff?
A cow?
Two thousand francs. If I stay here a week I will cost the Russian people seven cows. Who am I to cost the Russian people seven cows?
Well, it means another two weeks in Paris.
Too bad we have to waste all that time.
Come, now, you must not talk that way.... You have to adjust yourselves.... We must be brave.
Brave... that's right.
Only myself and two other girls. One is a cello player in the opera and the other a streetcar conductor.
Just three people in a room this size? Whew!
Bad news?
Look for yourselves.
But Buljanoff, Iranoff, Kopalski...
Now, please, Ninotchka, don't start figuring it out in cows.
You've done it again and I am responsible. How can you forget yourselves this way? You were sent here to make money, not to spend it.
Buljanoff, she still has those old fashioned Bolshevik ideas.
...we have a wonderful electric sign: "Dine With Buljanof, Iranoff, and Kopalski."
You mean you are deserting Russia?
We don't want to be disturbed.
My name is Count d'Algout. I telephoned.
If you want to see us you must come later.
I just want a word with Monsieur Mercier.
But you can't...
Well, gentlemen... how about a little lunch?
Get out of here!
Don't look so gloomy, gentlemen. All is not lost. You may have a chance.
All right, go ahead, get her on the witness stand! What can she say?
But how will she look? The fashions this spring are very becoming to her. Gentlemen, the judge will be French, the jury will be French, everybody in that courtroom will be French. Have you ever seen a French court when a beautiful woman sits on the witness stand and lifts her skirt a little? You sit down and pull up your pants and where will it get you?
I suppose you expect us to hand over the jewels?
Oh, no, no. I am not a highwayman, I'm just a nuisance. All I'm trying to do is make things as difficult as possible.
What proposition?
I just said let's have a little lunch. Room service.
What's the name of that Commissar on the Board of Trade?
Razinin.
Razinin, Board of Trade, Moscow.
And if we have to go to Siberia...
I'll send you a muff.
She says she won't be intimidated by parasites. She called the Duchess a bloodsucking aristocrat and a blackmailer.
What did she say about me?
I think she covered you with the parasites.
You found your way to us and we weren't easy to reach, were we?
No, no.
Comrades, why should we lie to each other? It's wonderful.
Let's be honest. Have we anything like it in Russia?
They tell me when you ring once the valet comes in; when you ring twice you get the waiter; and do you know what happens when you ring three times? A maid comes in  a French maid.
Comrades, if we ring nine times... let's go in.
I don't want to go to the Hotel Terminus.
If Lenin were alive he would say, "Buljanoff, Comrade, for once in your life you're in Paris. Don't be a fool. Go in there and ring three times."
He wouldn't say that. What he would say is "Buljanoff, you can't afford to live in a cheap hotel. Doesn't the prestige of the Bolsheviks mean anything to you? Do you want to live in a hotel where you press for the hot water and cold water comes and when you press for the cold water nothing comes out at all? Phooey, Buljanoff!"
We can wait.
Do we give the impression of people who are pressed for money?
You know, Monsieur Mercier, this is all nonsense.
These may have been the jewels of the Duchess Swana, but, like all private property, they were confiscated by the State.
We can call our ambassador.
I give you my word! They were confiscated legally!
That won't help you! You can't intimidate us!
Soviet Russia will put all its might behind this case.
Yes, Leon...
What is it, my boy?
Leon, my little boy.
Oh, Leon, you are so good.
Halt negotiations immediately. Envoy extraordinary arrives Thursday six ten with full power. Your authority cancelled herewith. Razinin.
It is Thursday!
This is a fine thing. Maybe we've missed him already.
How can you find somebody without knowing what he looks like?
We don't blame you, Leon, but when we came from Russia we believed in simplicity...
We avoided luxury and extravagance and today... well, if you were to offer us a glass of champagne, we wouldn't say no.
They tell me it has a wonderful restaurant on the second floor.
While you eat, you look at the view.
Let's do that.
It's a real Paris reunion.
If you close your eyes and listen to our voices we might be in Paris.
...des petites fraises des bois... de la crme de Bretagne...
...so it blows up that big... what they call an Omelette Surprise!
Well, I think it's getting late. Good night, Ninotchka.
Thank you for a wonderful dinner.
That was our idea when we first came. All we thought we would get out of this trip was a Turkish bath, but... we learned better.
Ninotchka, we are in the magic East, the country of Aladdin and His Lamp...
...Ali Baba and the Forty Thieves... into one single hour you can crowd a thousand and one nights.
Don't call it desertion. Our little restaurant... that is our Russia... the Russia of borscht, the Russia of beef Stroganoff, blinis with sour cream...
...the Russia of piroshki... people will eat and love it.
There's something in Constantinople... something irresistible....
...it is in the air... it may come around the corner as you walk down the street....
Good evening, Your Highness.
Good evening, Louis. You seem to be very crowded tonight. Can you manage a table near the floor?
Certainly, Your Highness, this way please... Count d'Algout made the reservation this afternoon.
Count d'Algout...
It is only a small table but it will be no trouble to put in some extra chairs.
Only one in the rear, I'm afraid.
That's perfect!
Is this satisfactory?
Thank you, Louis.
Your Highness...
Yes, General Savitzky?
I want you to know all the White Russian exiles in Paris are keeping their fingers crossed about the jewels. They are very interested in the case. Swana suspects her countrymen.
Are they indeed? Thank you.
They hope the settlement will bring you a fortune.
General, please... if you hear any rumors that I am a charitable person, will you please kill them at their source?
You're looking magnificent, Leon... ...isn't he, General Savitzky?
Yes.
General, would you mind making my excuses at our table? I'll be back in a few moments.
Certainly.
Good evening, Gaston.
Good evening, Monsieur.
Count d'Algout, there have been several telephone...
Go to bed.
Your breakfast, monsieur.
I don't feel like any breakfast.
What time have you, Gaston?
Eight fortytwo, sir.
I guess it is eight fortytwo.
You seem to be a bit nervous, sir.
I am, Gaston.
If you will forgive me, ever since you met that Bolshevik lady I've noticed a distinct change in you, sir.
Have you?
Decidedly. Yesterday I was greatly amazed when I came from the market and found that you had made your bed, sir.
And Gaston, I was happier all day long. I felt I'd contributed something.
Well, sir, if you should do it again, which I hope you won't, please remember the order. Counterpane, blanket, blanket, sheet, sheet.
Ah, there's something poetic about the simple processes of labor. Counterpane, blanket, blanket, sheet, sheet... it should be set to music!
May I add, sir, that it was with great amazement that I found a copy of Karl Marx's Capital on your night table. That is a socialistic volume which I refuse to so much as dust, sir. I view with alarm, sir, the influence over you of this Bolshevik lady.
I can't follow you, Gaston, isn't it about time that you realized the unfairness of your position? You being my servant? Wouldn't you like to stand on an equal footing with me?
No, sir.
Isn't there any revolt in you? Sometimes when I order you around don't you feel like kicking me in the pants?
No, sir.
Oh, you're a reactionary! Don't you look forward to the day when you can come in here and stand square on your two feet and say, "Hey, you, d'Algout! from now on it's going to be share and share alike"?
Emphatically not, sir. The prospect terrifies me. Now, don't misunderstand me, sir, I don't resent your not paying me for the past two months, but the thought that I should split my bank account with you... that you should take half of my life's savings... that is really too much for me.
Good morning, Your Highness.
Good morning, Gaston.
Count d'Algout is still asleep.
That's all right.
Nonsense. How can you fight the Reds and make yourself agreeable to the Whites if you don't keep up your strength.
Shall I draw your bath, sir?
A blue shirt, perhaps?
Blue? Let's offset his mood. Find a striped one, and brighten it with a great blaze of tie.
Very well, Your Highness.
You think because you represent the former Duchess...
The Duchess...
The former Duchess!
In any case, gentlemen, a charming, beautiful, exquisite woman. I warn you, if this case comes to trial it will be before a French court, and when the Duchess takes the stand...
Not that we are giving in one inch, but tell us... what is in your mind?
Well, gentlemen, how about my proposition?
About this telegram to Moscow. Why should you bother? I'll write it for you.
Leon... Leonitchka... Why are you so good to us?
Didn't we put up a strong resistance?
Oh, yes, yes.
Boys, boys... don't forget Russia is your mother country. Three sons walking out all at once... that's too much for any mother.
Well, if your mother turns against you, you have to look for someone to adopt you.
How are things in Moscow?
Very good. The last mass trials were a great success. There are going to be fewer but better Russians.
This is the apartment we have reserved for you, Comrade Yakushova. I hope you like it.
Which part of the room is mine?
Which lawyer?
You didn't get legal advice?
We didn't want to get mixed up with lawyers. They are very expensive here. If you just say hello to a lawyer... well, there goes another cow.
Comrade Buljanoff...
Yes, Comrade?
Do you spell Buljanoff with one or two f's?
With two f's, if you please.
Is there anything I can do, Comrade?
You might get me an accurate map of Paris. I want to use my spare time to inspect the public utilities and make a study of all outstanding technical achievements in the city.
Yes, Comrade.
There's something else which I know will appeal to you. A visit to the Paris sewers. They tell me it is extremely instructive.
Huh?... Why don't you get a haircut, Buljanoff? You all look so wintry, Comrades. And why do we always keep the windows closed? Isn't it amazing, at home there's still snow and ice and here... Look at the birds. I always felt a little hurt that our swallows deserted us in the winter for capitalistic countries. Now I know why. We have the high ideal but they have the climate... well, Comrades, I don't think I need you any more.
Now let's forget everything except that we're together.
That's right.
Let's not close our eyes. There are many good things to see here too.
I think I need my glasses.
Comrades... I'm out of the omelet.
Don't worry... there will be enough.
It is high time you got out of Russia.
I must be stern with you.
Don't forget, the day will come when you will have to face Razinin.
Good old Razinin! Is he still alive? How does he manage?
But, Comrades...
Is it possible to bring you back to reality for a moment? I must have a complete report of your negotiations and a detailed expense account.
Don't ask for it, Ninotchka. There is a Turkish proverb which says, "If something smells bad, why put your nose in it?"
And there is a Russian saying: "The cat who has cream on his whiskers had better find good excuses."
With our cream situation what it is, it is Russia which should apologize to the cats.
Friends... friends, Buljanoff, Iranoff...
All you have to do is say "open sesame."
I don't know how I can get you out of it this time. How will it end? What will happen to you?
Shall we tell her?
Guest?
We have opened a restaurant...
We are not only serving good food, we are serving our country... we are making friends.
Who gave you this idea? What is responsible for all this?
Is there anything I can do for you, monsieur?
No, no.
I am Comrade Buljanoff.
Monsieur.
May I ask how much your rooms are?
Well, gentlemen, I'm afraid our rates are rather high.
Why should you be afraid?
Just a minute  just a minute  I have nothing against the idea but I still say let's go back to the Hotel Terminus. Moscow made our reservations there, we are on an official mission, and we have no right to change the orders of our superior.
Where is your courage, Comrade Buljanoff?
Now Comrades, I warn you... if it gets out in Moscow that we stay in the Royal Suite we will get into terrible trouble.
We'll just say we had to take it on account of the safe. That's a perfect excuse. There was no other safe big enough.
Capitalistic methods...
They accumulate millions by taking loss after loss.
He's cutting our throat...
But what can we do?... We have to accept.
We don't like Razinin.
We like you, Leon  don't we like Leon?
Misha! Misha!
What is it?
A telegram from Moscow! It must have been here all day!
That must be the one!
Yes, he looks like a comrade!
We had to take it on account of the safe.
For ourselves... we are much happier now since we moved to a little room next to the servants' quarters.
And Leonitchka! What she said about us...!
And they might believe her in Moscow.
What do you mean they might  they will!
Yes! We could stay with Leon!
Leon, how would you like to have three lifelong friends?
You know what they say  there's nothing like home.
That's right... and we might as well face it.
Let's be happy that we're all alive.
And that's something we owe to Ninotchka.
What a lovely room you have here.
How many families live here with you?
She's right... anyhow let's talk ourselves into it.
Just see how happy the people look... from here....
And if it is too late for you your children will eat it.
Let's forget the future... let's stop being sentimental... let's start that omelet.
We can say whatever we want. We can shout... we can complain... Look... The service in this hotel is terrible! See? Nobody comes... nobody pays any attention. That's freedom.
No, that's bad management.
Are you the Buljanoff who fought on the barricades? And now you are afraid to take a room with a bath?
I don't want to go to Siberia.
Comrades! Comrades! Don't let's give in so quickly. After all we have to uphold the prestige of Russia.
All right, let's uphold it for another ten minutes.
You wouldn't like Razinin.
He's a bad man. Sends people to Siberia!
And how is Lord Lavenham?
...and little Lady Beatrice?
Are we free, Buljanoff?
Possibly.
No, that's not him...
Positively not!
That's her.
Imagine! The niece of the Czar opening the door for us.
Once in Petersburg I was driving down the Nevsky Prospect in my cart and Her Highness in her troika swept down from the opposite direction, and when I couldn't make way quick enough she spat in my face.
You must help us, Leon... if you don't win her over we're on our way to Siberia!
Or it might be the firing squad!
Or we can't go back to Russia!
Imagine, for once in our lives we were in Paris and we never went to the Eiffel Tower.
That's right.
If you hadn't given Commissar Razinin such a wonderful report about us, who knows what would have happened?
I can tell you exactly.
A little more tact... look how nicely she's fixed the table  all for us.
How nicely you've fixed the table, Ninotchka.
Can you blame them?... at least the May Day parade is over.
That's another thing... it's spring.
It is, Ninotchka! It is! He must have been in Paris! You can see it in his whole attitude! He just picked up a crumb of our black bread, shook his head, and dropped it.
If you asked him why he left France I bet he couldn't name one good reason.
I should be a swallow! Right now I would be sitting in front of the Caf de Paris picking up flakes of French pastry that would melt in my bill.
Let's fill it with confitures, des prunes...
...des raisins de Madre, des framboises...
And the surprise is there's nothing in it.
I know, but if we can't put in all these wonderful things at least let's put in some imagination. In that one omelet we'll taste the whole of Paris!
We are not comrades any more... we are friends, Ninotchka.
Imagine, we don't have to whisper any longer.
...it may step out of a bazaar... it may wait for you in a corridor... it may hide in the shadow of a minaret....
Right now it's on the balcony.
Good evening, Anna.
Good evening, Ninotchka.
Aren't you late?
No, the opera starts an hour later tonight on account of the parade.
They didn't let me. I am in disgrace. Last week at the performance of Carmen I played a sour note. The conductor got so excited he yelled, "There's sabotage in the string section!"
Too bad... you missed an inspiring day, Anna.
I know... my heart is sad... but my feet are happy. When all the tanks and guns were roaring over the Red Square I sat here all by myself and played a Beethoven sonata. Not bad at all. Are you expecting someone?
A few friends... just a little dinner party.
What are you serving?
An omelet.
An omelet! Aren't you living a little above your ration?
Well, I've saved up two eggs and each of my friends is bringing his own so we'll manage.
It just goes to prove the theory of our State. If you stand alone it means a boiled egg but if you're true to the collective spirit and stick together you've got an omelet. That reminds me... have you heard the latest they're telling about the Kremlin?
I'll tell you later. That Gurganov, you never know whether he's on his way to the washroom or the Secret Police.
You should be more careful, Anna.
And you too, Ninotchka.
About what?
Ever since you have been back from Paris...
I haven't talked to anyone about Paris. I haven't said a word.
That's just it. It makes people feel queer. I dont' want you to get in any trouble.
I have nothing to hide.
You should. I'll show you.
When I passed through the laundry yard today I saw all the women huddled around this so I brought it up here. Things like this create a bad feeling. First they didn't know whose it was. Then they saw the Paris label and did it start a commotion! Some said it's what we all ought to wear and others said it's like hanging foreign ideas on our clothesline. It undermines our whole cause.
I see.
You know how it is today... all you have to do is wear a pair of silk stockings and they suspect you of counterrevolution.
Thank you, Anna. I'll dry it up here when I wash it next. I should hate to see our country endangered by my underwear.
Ninotchka, you know I am your friend, you can trust me.... Did you bring back anything else?
No, I left everything in Paris. I just happened to be wearing this.
Tell me... what else did you have?
Well, a hat...
What was it like?
It was very silly.... I would be ashamed to wear it here.
As beautiful as that? What else? Come, tell me.
An evening gown.
Evening gown?
A dress you wear in the evening.
What do you wear in the morning?
When you get up you put on a negligee, and then you change to a morning frock.
You mean to tell me you wear a different dress for different times of the day?
Yes.
Now, Ninotchka, you're exaggerating.
No, my dear, it is true. That's how they live in the other world. Here we dress to have our bodies covered... to keep warm....
And there?
Well, sometimes they're not completely covered but... they don't freeze.
They must have wonderful materials to make a thing like this so soft... something you don't even see.
You feel it, though.
Ninotchka, I wouldn't bring this up if we weren't such good friends.
What is it, Anna?
You know I told you that Pavlov and I are going to get married when he comes back from the maneuvers. Would it be asking too much...
You want this?
Just for the honeymoon.
You can have it for good. It is my wedding present.
Thank you, Comrade.
Have you any money?
Well, here are fifty francs.
Thank you, Comrade, thank you.
Bring me fortyfive back.
Naturally, Comrade.
What is it, Ninotchka?
It's from Paris.
From Leon.
From Leon!... How is he?... Come, tell us... open it... tell us... how is he?
What the hell you doing here?
Came to make up, no big deal. Your ma home?
Of course. What's that?
You feel better now, right?
Jungle man fix Jane.
No more fights?
No more fights.
Good. No more nightmares for either of us then.
When did you have a nightmare?
Guys can have nightmares too, y'know. You ain't got a corner on the fucking market or something.
Rod says the sweetest things.
He's nuts about you.
Yeah, nuts.
Anyway, I'm too tired to worry about the creep. Couldn't get back to sleep at all. So what you dream?
Forget it, the point is, everybody has nightmares once in a while. No biggy.
I can't believe his mother let him come over here.
Right. Well, she didn't, exactly...
Nice to have a fire.
Really. Turn 'er up a little.
Maybe we should call Rod, have him come over too. He might get jealous.
Rod and I are done. He's too much of a maniac.
What you dream?
I dreamed about this guy in a dirty red and yellow sweater; I dream in color, y'know; he walked into the room I was in, right, right through the wall, like it was smoke or something, and just stared at me. Sort of... obscenely. Then he walked out through the wall on the other side. Like he'd just come to check me out...
We got her mother's bed. You two got the rest.
We should get her out of here...
Your old man thinks I did it, don't he?
He doesn't know you. Couldn't you change?
The cops were all over my house. They'll kill me for sure.
Nobody's gonna kill you.
I never touched her.
You were screaming like crazy.
Someone else was there.
The door was locked from your side.
And then what happened?
I told you. It was dark, but I'm sure there was someone else IN there, under the covers with her.
How could somebody get under the covers with you guys without you knowing it?
How the fuck do I know? I don't expect you to believe me.
No.
Well then how can you say somebody else was there?
Because somebody cut her. While I watched.
What you mean 'all at once'?
I mean, it was as if there were four razors cutting her at the same time. But invisible razors. She just... opened up...
Do you think I did it?
No.
Apparently he was crazy jealous. Nancy said they'd had a fight, Rod and Tina.
It wasn't that serious...
Maybe you don't think murder's serious 
Where you think you're going?
School.
I could hear you tossing and turning all night, kiddo. You've no business going to school.
Did you sleep?
I'll sleep in study hall, promise. I'd rather keep busy, you know?
Right home after.
Right home after. See you.
Nancy, don't fall asleep in there.
I won't.
Get into bed.
I will.
What?
You're not falling asleep, are you? You could drown, you know.
Mother, for petesakes.
It happens all the time. I've got some warm milk all ready for you. Why don't you jump into bed? I'm gonna turn on your electric blanket, too. C'mon, now.
Warm milk. Gross.
You okay?
Great
To bed with you, c'mon.
No television, forget the homework, no phone calls.
No, Mother. Yes, Mother. No, Mother.
And no school tomorrow, either. You take a little vacation, relax and rest for a change.
Yes, Mother. G'night.
Take this, it'll help you sleep.
Right.
I must be going nuts...
Nancy?
You okay?
Yeah. Just had a little dream. I'm falling right back to sleep.
Okay... You need anything, just call.
Okay.
Go even crazier?
I don't think you're going crazy  and stop drinking that damn coffee!
Did you ask Daddy to have the hat examined?
I threw that filthy thing away  I don't know what you're trying to prove with it, but 
What I learned at the dream clinic, that's what I'm trying to prove. Rod didn't kill Tina, and he didn't hang himself. It's this guy  he's after us in our dreams.
But that's just not reality, Nancy!
It's real, Mamma. Feel it.
Put that damned thing down!
Screw sleep!
Nancy!
What's with the bars?
S'curity.
Mom, I want to know what you know about Fred Krueger.
Dead and gone.
I want to know how, where  if you don't tell me, I'm going to call daddy.
Your father the cop. That's a good one. Forget Fred Krueger. You don't want to know, believe me.
I do want to know. He's not dead and gone  he's after me and if I sleep he'll get me! I've got to know!
Oh lawyers got fat and the judge got famous, but someone forgot to sign the search warrant in the right place, and Fred Krueger was free, just like that.
So he's alive?
Bunch of us parents tracked him down after they let him go. Found him in an old boiler room, just like before. Saw him lying there in that caked red and yellow sweater he always wore, drunk an' asleep with his weird knives by his side...
Go on...
All these years you've kept those things buried down here? In our own house?
Proof he's declawed. As for him, we buried him good and deep.
Give me the key, mother.
I don't even have it on me, so forget it.
Guess I should'n'a done it.
Just sleep now, Mom.
Just wanted to protect you, Nan. Just wanted to protect you...
Feeling better?
They say you've bottomed out when you can't remember the night before. No more drinking, Baby, suddenly I just don't feel like it any more.
Who? Who did that?
Krueger.
Krueger?
Had to've done it. No one else was in there.
How you know that?
Cause I thought Glen was gonna sneak out to see your lunatic daughter, that's why. So I locked him in his room! Sorry. Anyways, the door was still locked when we heard the screams.
Maybe god's punishing us all...
Keep your head  this is a fucking flesh and blood killer we're talking about.
Like Rod Lane?
Lieutenant Thompson. Sorry to wake you, but 
I'd've canned your ass if you hadn't. What you got?
What's the Coroner got to say?
Something like a razor was the weapon, but nothing found on the scene.
Looks like her boyfriend did it. Rod Lane. Musician type, arrests for brawling, dope 
Terrific. What the hell was she doing there?
She lived there.
I don't mean her 
Tell her I'm not here, tell her...
Uh, she just saw you, sir...
Get outside and watch her house. If you see anything funny call me.
'Anything funny' like what?
How you doing, pal?
Okay. Hi, dad.
Rod's not a lunatic.
You got a sane explanation for what he did?
She dreamed this would happen...
What?
She had a nightmare about somebody trying to kill her, last night. That's why we were there; she was afraid to sleep alone.
You used me, daddy!
What the hell you doing going to school today, anyway  your mother told me you didn't even sleep last night!
Decide to take a day off after all?
Dad, I want to see Rod Lane.
Only family allowed, Nancy. You know the drill.
Just want to talk to him a second.
He's dangerous.
You don't know he did it.
No, I know, thanks to your own testimony, that he was locked in a room with a girl who went in alive and came out in a rubber bag.
Dad  what you doing here?
It so happens I work here, and there's an unsolved murder. I don't like unsolved murders, especially ones my daughter's mixed up in  what are you doing here at this hour? You're supposed to be getting some sleep.
Hello Nancy.
Hi daddy. I know what happened.
Then you know more than I do  I haven't even been upstairs.
You know he's dead though, right?
I've got a proposition for you. Listen very carefully, please.
Nan, I 
Please. I'm gonna go get the guy who did it and bring him to you. I just need you be right there to arrest him. Okay?
Just tell me who did it and I'll go get him, baby.
Fred Krueger did it, Daddy, and only I can get him. It's my nightmare he comes to.
 I want you to come over here and break the door down exactly twenty minutes from now  can you do that?
Sure, but...
That'll be exactly half past midnight. Time for me to fall asleep and find him.
Sure, sure, honey. You just do that  get yourself some sleep  that's what I've been saying all along.
And you'll be here to catch him, right?
Sure, okay, I'll be there. Now you just turn in and get some rest, sweetheart. Please. Deal?
Deal.
DAD! GET US OUTTA HERE!
Oh, Jesus  Nancy! Hey! We got a fire!
Worked like a charm.
Jesus.
It's just a stupid cat.
Then bring us back its tail and whiskers.
So we'll guard her together. Through the night. In each others' arms like we always said.
Glen. Not now. I mean, we're here for Tina now, not for ourselves.
Why's she so bothered by a stupid nightmare, anyway?
Because he was scary, that's why.
Who was scary?
What the hell's going on!?
Oh  jeez  Glen! Rod's gone ape!
You okay?
Yeah. Something slippery all over here... Tina?
Sometimes I wish you didn't live right across the street.
Shut up and let me in. You ever stand on a rose trellis in your bare feet?
Guess I did.
Haven't slept, have you?
Not really.
M'god, I look twenty years old. You have any weird dreams last night?
Slept like a rock.
Well at least I have an objective wall to bounce this off. You believe it's possible to dream about what's going to happen?
No.
You believe in the Boogey Man?
One two, Freddie's coming for you? No. Rod killed Tina. He's a fruitcake and you know it.
You believe in anything?
I believe in you, me, and Rock and Roll. And I'm not too sure about you lately.
Listen, I got a crazy favor to ask.
Uhoh...
It's nothing too hard or anything. I'm just going to... LOOK for someone, and... I want you to be sort of a... guard. Okay?
Okay?
Okay, okay. I think.
Jesus, it's dark in here.
Shhh. Now listen, here's what we're gonna do...
Yeah. So?
Just checking  keep out of sight!
Whenever I get nervous I eat.
And if you can't do that, you sleep.
Used to. Not anymore.
You ever read about the Balinese way of dreaming?
No.
They got a whole system they call 'dream skills'. So, if you have a nightmare, for instance like falling, right?
Yeah.
Instead of screaming and getting nuts, you say, okay, I'm gonna make up my mind that I fall into a magic world where I can get something special, like a poem or song. They get all their art literature from dreams. Just wake up and write it down. Dream skills.
And what if they meet a monster in their dream? Then what?
They turn their back on it. Takes away its energy, and it disappears.
What happens if they don't do that?
I guess those people don't wake up to tell what happens.
Great.
'Booby Traps and Improvised Antipersonnel Devices'!
I found it at this neat survivalist bookstore on Ventura.
Well what you reading it for?
Hello?
Hi.
Oh. Hi, how y'doing?
Much better.
I heard your ma went ape at the security store today. You look like the Prisoner of Zenda or something. How long's it been since you slept?
Coming up on the seventh day. It's okay, I checked Guiness. The record's eleven, and I'll beat that if I have to. Listen, I... I know who he is.
Who?
The killer.
You do?
Yeah, and if he gets me, I'm pretty sure you're next.
Me!? Why would anyone want to kill me?!
Don't ask  just give me some help nailing this guy when I bring him out.
Bring him out of what?
My dream.
How you plan to do that?
Just like I did the hat. Have a hold of the sucker when you wake me up.
Me? Wait a minute, you can't bring someone out of a dream!
If I can't, then you all can relax, because it'll just be a simple case of me being nuts.
I can save you the trouble. You're nutty as a fruitcake. I love you anyway.
Good, then you won't mind coldcocking this guy when I bring him out.
What!?
You heard me. I grab him in the dream  you see me struggling so you wake me up. We both come out, you cold cock the fucker, and we got him. Clever, huh?
You crazy? Hit him with what?
You're a jock. You must have a baseball bat or something. Come to my window at midnight. And meanwhile...
Meanwhile...?
Meanwhile whatever you do don't fall asleep. Midnight.
Nancy have any severe childhood illnesses? Scarlet Fever? High temperatures  concussions?
No, nothing.
Nightmares are expected after psychological trauma. Don't worry, they go away.
I sure as hell hope so.
They're just simple tests, Nan. We'll both be right here.
Look, I know it's been frightening, I know your dreams have seemed real. But... it's okay. Okay?
Please, Nancy. Trust us.
How long's this been going on?
Since the murder. She was fine before that.
Not to worry. No signs of pathology in Nancy's EEG or pulse rate. I'd guess what we've got is a normal young girl who just happens to have gone through two days of hell.
It's just made her think... her dreams are real...
Okay, good. She's asleep.
Thank God.
What the hell are dreams, anyway?
Mysteries. Incredible body hookus pokus. Truth is we still don't know what they are or where they come from. As for nightmares... Did you know that in the last three years twenty Filipino refugees in California died in the middle of nightmares? Not from heart attacks, either. They just died.
What happened? That needle sank like a rock.
She's entering deep sleep now. Heart rate's a little high due to anxiety, but otherwise she's nicely relaxed. All normal. She could dream at any time now. Right now she's like a diver on the bottom of an ocean no one's mapped yet. Waiting to see what shows up.
How can you tell?
R.E.M.'s. Rapid eye movements. The eyes follow the dream  their movement picks up on this 
Oh my god, oh my god...
Get the kit!
Pearl and John!
Not this time! It was just one youngin  a little boy babe. And do you know who he was, children?
I been bad!
Ruby, you didn't have no money to buy this.
You'll whip me!
When did I ever?
This man down at the Drugstore...
The Drugstore?
Miz Cooper. I never went to sewin' lessons all them times.
What you been up to?
I been out with men.
This gentleman warn't like them! He just give me a sody and the book.
Now who was this?
He never asked me for nothin'.
He must have wanted somethin', Ruby. A man don't waste time on a girl unless he gets something.
What'd you all talk about?
Pearl and John.
John and Pearl!
Miz Cooper!
What?
The man! The man!
Mornin', ladies.
How'do.
You're Miz Cooper, I take it.
It's about that John and that Pearl?
Shall I tell ye the little story of RightHandLeftHand  the tale of Good and Evil?
It was with this left hand that old brother Cain struck the blow that laid his brother low 
Them kids is yours?
My flesh and blood!
Where's your Missus?
She run off with a drummer one night. Durin' prayermeetin'.
Where's she at?
Somewheres down river! Parkersburg, mebbe!  Cincinnati!  One of them Sodoms on the Ohio River.
She took them kids with her?
Heaven only knows what unholy sights and sounds those innocent little babes has heard in the dens of perdition where she dragged them!
Right funny, hain't it, how they rowed all the way up river in a ten foot johnboat!
Gracious, gracious! You are a good woman, Miz Cooper!
How you figgerin' to raise them two without a woman?
The Lord will provide.
The Lord is merciful! What a day is this!  And there's little John!
What's wrong, John?
What's wrong, John?
Didn't you hear me, boy?
What do you want?
Them kids!
What are you after them for?
None of your business, Madam.
I'm givin' you to the count of three to get out that screen door; then I'm acomin' across this kitchen shootin'!
John: take that look offen your face and act nice.
He don't mean no impudence; do you, boy? Do you, boy? Ah, many's the time poor Brother Ben told me about these youngins.
John, Mr. Powell has got something to tell you.
Well, John, the night before your father died, he told me what he did with that money.
Harry!
I was praying.
Oh, I'm sorry, Harry! I didn't know! I thought maybe 
You thought, Willa, that the moment you walked in that door I'd start in to pawing you in the abominable way men are supposed to do on their wedding night. Ain't that right, now?
No, Harry! I thought 
I think it's time we got one thing perfectly clear, Willa. Marriage to me represents a blending of two spirits in the sight of Heaven.
Get up, Willa.
Harry, what 
Get up.
Do you want more children, Willa?
I  no, I 
It's the business of our marriage to mind those two you have now  not to beget more.
Yes.
Are you through praying?
I'm through, Harry.
You were listening outside the parlor window.
It's not in the river, is it Harry?
Answer me!
Ben never told you he throwed it in the river? Did he?
Mister Powell?
A strange woman is a narrow pit!
Is there anythin'  anythin'...?
It is my shame  my crown of thorns. And I must wear it bravely.
Didn't you have no inkling?
Yes; from the first night.
The first night?
Our honeymoon.
How's that?
She turned me out of the bed.
What do you figure to do?
Do? Why stay and take care of them little kids. Maybe it was never meant for a woman like Willa to taint their young lives.
That's mighty brave of you, Reverend.
I reckon it's been ordained this way, Brother Spoon.
Didn't  didn't she leave no word?
A scrawl. On a piece of notepaper on the bureau.
She'll come draggin' her tail back home.
She'll not be back. I reckon I'd be safe in promisin' you that.
Maybe she's just run off on a spree.
You're Ruby, ain't you, my child?
Can I have this?
Surely. I'd like to talk to you, my dear.
Will you buy me a choclit sody?
O' course.
Why, you're the purtiest girl I've seen in all my wandering. Didn't nobody never tell you that, Ruby?
No. No one never did.
There's two new ones over at your place, ain't there Ruby?
What's their names?
Pearl and John.
Ahhh. And is there  a doll?
Only she won't never let me play with it.
Ahh!
John's a feller who likes to keep secrets.
Mmhm.
I'll tell you a secret.
Yes?
I knowed your Daddy. And do you know what your Daddy said to me? He said, "Tell my little girl Pearl there's to be no secrets between her and you."
Yes?
Now it's your turn.
What secret shall I tell?
How old are you?
That's no secret. I'm five.
Sure, that's no secret.
What's your name?
You're just foolin'! My name's Pearl.
Tsttst! Then I reckon I'll have to try again! Where's the money hid?
You see? We can't have anything to do with John. You and me will go down to the parlor.
Miz Jenny! Miz Jenny!
Yes; John's bad.
Tell me another secret about my Dad.
O no! Your turn!
All right.
Where's the money hid.
John's bad.
Where's the money hid? Tell me, you little wretch, or I'll tear your arm off!
I'm hungry.
Why, sure. And there's fried chicken and candied sweets and cornsticks and apple cobbler!
Can I have my supper please?
Naturally.
Can I have milk too?
Yes. But first of all we'll have a little talk.
About our secrets.
No.
Why, pray tell?
Because John said I mustn't.
Just tell me now; where's the money hid?
But I swore. I promised John I wouldn't tell.
JOHN  DOESN'T  MATTER! Can't I get that through your head, you poor, silly, disgusting little wretch!
Why, he told me what fine little lambs you and your sister both was.
Is that all?
Did you hear what I said, son?
Huh?
Married! We have decided to go to Sistersville tomorrow, and when we come back 
You ain't my Dad! You won't never be my Dad!
 and when we come back, we'll all be friends  and share our fortunes together, John!
You think you can make me tell! But I won't! I won't! I won't!
Tell me what, boy?
Nothin'!
Are we keeping secrets from each other, little lad?
No. No.
What are you doing, boy?
Getting Pearl to bed. I 
What's taking you so long about it?
It  she 
What's that you're playing with, boy?
Pearl's junk. Mom gets mad when she plays out here and don't clean up afterward.
Come on, children!
Your mother says you tattled on me, boy. She says you told her that I asked you where that money was hid.
Yes. Yes.
That wasn't very nice of you, John. Have a heart, boy.
She thinks that money's in the river, but you and me, we know better, don't we, boy?
I don't know nothin'!
The summer is young yet, little lad. Pearl?
Now! Where's it hid, honey?
I'll tell.
I thought I told you to keep your mouth shut 
NO,  it ain't fair to make Pearl tell when she swore she wouldn't. I'll tell.
All right boy: where's the money?
In the cellar. Buried under a stone in the floor.
All right... Come along.
What?
Go ahead of me  the both of you.
You don't reckon I'd leave you.
Don't you believe me?
Why sure, boy, sure.
Now where, boy? Mind; no tricks. I can't abide liars.
Yonder.
Now: Where?
Under the stone in the floor.
Pearl, shut up! Pearl, you swore!
You could save him, little bird.
Nothin'.
Come to me, boy!
Don't you hurt her!
Hurt her nothin'! Wash her's more like it! Ruby!
I'm butcherin' my hog myself, smokin' the hams, and cannin' the sausage. Youall have your work cut out!
She talks to herself.
John, where's your folks?
Dead.
Dead.
Where ye from?
Up river.
I didn't figger ye rowed that skiff from Parkersburg!
Story, honey? Why, what story?
About them Kings. That the Queen found down on the sandbar in the skiff that time.
Kings! Why, honey, there was only one.
I mind you said there was two.
Well, shoot! Maybe there was!
John, when your Dad says 'come', you should mind him.
He ain't my Dad.
I'll see to Pearl.
I'll make coffee.
This watch is the nicest watch I ever had.
A feller can't just go around with rundown, busted watches.
Stand still, Miss Jenny!
There! What's so hard about that!
You, Pearl. You swear too.
Who's them Blue Men yonder?
Blue men.
Hing, hang, hung.
You better not sing that song.
Why?
'Cause you're too little.
Tell me a story, John.
Once upon a time there was a rich king... ...and he had him a son and a daughter and they all lived in a castle over in Africa. Well, one day this King got taken away by bad men and before he got took off he told his son to kill anyone that tried to steal their gold, and before long these bad men come back and 
The Blue Men?
Just a man. Goodnight Pearl, sleep tight; and don't let the bedbugs bite.
'Night Miss Jenny; don't let the bedbugs bite.
John...
Sshhh...
Now can I tell?
Hm?
When Mr. Powell's our Daddy then I can tell him about 
You swore, Pearl!
John! Don't!
You promised Dad you wouldn't never tell!
You'll get awful mad, John. I done a Sin!
You what?
Pearl! You ain't 
John, don't be mad! Don't be mad! I was just playing with it! I didn't tell no one!
It's all here.
Pearl! Oh, Pearl!
Where's Mom?
She's gone to Moundsville.
To see Dad?
Yes, I reckon that's it.
Someone is after us, Pearl.
I want to go upstairs. It's cold and spidery down here. I'm hungry.
Now listen to me, Pearl. You and me is runnin' off tonight.
Why?
If we stay here somethin' awful will happen to us.
Won't Daddy Powell take care of us?
No, that's just it. No.
Where are we goin', John?
Somewheres. I don't know yet.
I'm hungry, John.
We'll steal somethin' to eat.
It'll spoil our supper.
John?
Hush, Pearl. Come on.
Please be quiet  Oh please, Pearl!
John, where are we g 
Hush.
Get in the skiff, Pearl, goodness, goodness, hurry!
That's Daddy!
Are we goin' home, John?
Ssh...
I must wend my way down River on the Lord's work.
You ain't leavin' in no hurry if we can help it!
My, that fudge smells yummy!
It's for the picknick. And you won't get a smidgen of my fudge unless you stay for the picknick!
Amen! Amen!
She lieth in wait as for a prey. And increaseth the transgressors among men.
My dear, dear friends! Whatever would I do without you!
Mister Powell!
What could have possessed that girl!
Satan.
Ah.
I burned it. I tore it up and burned it  it stank so strong of hellfire.
Amen.
The pitcher has went to the well once too often, my friends.
Ain't no sense in it, neither. I figured somethin' like this was brewin' when she went to bed last night.
How?
She tarried around the kitchen after I'd gone up, and when I went downstairs to see what was wrong...
What!
She'd found this fruit jar of dandelion wine that the husband  Harper  had hid somewheres in the cellar. She was drinking.
I tried to save her.
I know you did, Reverend. Oh, I know how you tried!
The devil wins sometimes!
Just look at you! Dust and filth from top to toe!
Want me to take 'em up and wash 'em good?
Thank you, no. Thank you, dear Icey. I'll tend to them. Thank you.
Willa Harper there is certain plain facts of life that adds up just like two plus two makes four and one of them is this: No woman is good enough to raise growin' youngsters alone! The Lord meant that job for two!
Icey, I don't want a husband.
Fiddlesticks!
That feller's just achin' to settle down with some nice woman and make a home for himself.
It's awful soon after Ben's passing.
If ever I saw a Sign from Heaven!
John don't like him much.
Pearl dotes on him.
The boy worries me. It's silly, but it's like there was something still between him and his Dad.
What he needs is a dose o' salts!
There's something else.
What?
The money, Icey.
I declare, you'll let that money haunt you to your grave, Willa Harper!
I would love to be satisfied Harry Powell don't think I've got that money somewhere.
You'll come right out and ask that Man of God! Mr. Paowwell! Clear that evil mud out of your soul!
You go set down by the River.
Oh, Icey, I'm a sight!
Get along with you.
That boy's as stubborn and mulish as a sheep!
It's a shame!
It's a mighty good man would come out of his way to bring a word of cheer to a grieving widow!
So you ain't with the State no more?
Plan on a longer visit next time.
You don't hardly get settled till you're frettin' to git home again.
Icey, I'm worried about Willa.
How do you mean?
I'm figurin' how I can say it so's you won't get mad.
Say what, Walt Spoon!
There's somethin' wrong about it, Mother.
About what!
About Mr. Powell. All of it!
Walt!
Now, Mother, a body can't help their feelin's.
May the Lord have mercy on you, Walt Spoon!
Mother, I only 
What's wrong, Mother?
Sshhh! He's in there.
Who?
Mr. Powell! Willa has run away!
I'll be switched!...
Just went?
She took out some time durin' the night,  in that old ModelT 
Is he hit pretty bad?
All to pieces!
There's a little peach brandy  maybe a sip?
A man of the Cloth?
What can we do, Mother?
I thought if you went and talked to him  another man 
Dear Walt and Icey: I bet you been worried and gave us up for lost. Took the kids down here with me for a visit to my sister Elsie's farm. Thot a little change of scenery would do us all a world of good after so much trubble and heartache. At least the kids will git a plenty of good home cooking. Your devoted Harry Powell
Now ain't you relieved, Walt?
Sure, but you was worried too, Mother; takin' off with never a word of goodbye. I even got to figurin' them gypsies busted in and done off with all three of 'em.
You and your gypsies! They been gone a week!
Not before one of 'em knifed a farmer and stole his horse. Never caught the gypsies nor the horse.
Lynch him! Lynch him!
Bluebeard!
Twentyfive wives!
And he killed every last one of 'em!
Draggin' the name of the Lord through the evil mud of his soul!
Come on!
He lied!
Tricked us!
He taken the Lord's name in vain and he trampled on His Holy Book!
String that Bluebeard up to a pole!
He's Satan hiding behind the Cross!
See ye got two more peeps to your brood.
Yeah, and ornerier than the rest.
How's your own boy, Miz Cooper?
Ain't heard from Ralph since last Christmas. Don't matter  I've got a new crop. I'm a strong tree with branches for many birds. I'm good for something in this old world and I know it, too! We know that she will rout the Devil.
Got a good buy in soap, Miz Cooper.
Don't need no soap. I'm boilin' down the fat from my hog.
AAAMENN!
You have all sinned!
Yes! Yes!
But which one of you can say as I can say: I drove a good man to murder because I kept ahoundin' him for clothes and perfumes and face paint!
And the Lord told that man 
Yes! Yes!
The Lord said, Take that money and throw it in the River!
Yes! Yes! Hallelujah!
Throw that money in the River! In THE RIVER!
IN THE RIIVER!
Here's what you owe me. One, two, three, four, five... where's the other basket? Where's Ruby?
She went.
John: you go fetch Ruby. Big Ruby's my problem girl. She can't gather eggs without bustin' 'em; but Ruby's got mother hands with a youngin, so what're you to say?
I'll light the lamp.
It's more fun hearin' stories in the dark.
And when little King Jesus' Ma and Pa heard about that plan, what do you reckon they went and done?
They hid in a broom closet!
Where's Ruby?
She went.
She don't put in at Cresap's Landing no more, but she still blows as she passes. Come on in and have a cup of coffee.
Ain't nobody stole Dad's skiff.
Ain't nobody goin' to neither, long as Uncle Birdie's around.
Ain't seen you in a coon's age, Johnny.
I been mindin' Pearl.
Pshaw now! Ain't it a caution what women'll load onto a feller's back when he ain't lookin'?
'Twas down at Cresap's Landing, Along the River Shore, Birdie Steptoe was a Pilot in the good old days of yore. Now he sets in his old wharfboat...
When'll Dad's skiff be ready?
Can't hear ye, boy. ...So the big boats heave a sigh, They blow for Uncle Birdie...
When'll the skiff be ready?
And the times that are gone by. I'll have her ready inside of a week; and then we'll go fishin'. How's your Maw?
O, she's all right.
How's your sister Pearl?
Just fine.
Leavin', boy?
Yep; gotta watch out for Pearl, Uncle Birdie.
Well goodnight, boy. Come again  any time.
Here's your can o' hooks, Uncle Birdie.
There hain't nary hook in the land smart enough to hook Mister Gar. What a feller needs is motherwit  and a horsehair.
Won't he bust it, Uncle Birdie?
Shoot, a horsehair'll hold a lumpin' whale.
Do you mind me cussin', boy?
No.
Tell you why I ask  your steppa being' a Preacher an' all...
Can we eat him, Uncle Birdie?
If you got an appetite for bones and bitterness.
Uncle Birdie!
Don't!
Hide us Uncle Birdie! He's acomin' with his knife!
Where's your Mom?
Out shopping  you're bleeding, Dad 
Listen to me John.
Here they come.
Dad, you're bleeding...
Listen to me son. You got to swear. Swear means promise. First swear you'll take care of little Pearl. Guard her with your life, boy. Then swear you won't never tell where that money's hid. Not even your Mom.
Yes, Dad.
You understand?
Not even her?
You got common sense. She ain't. When you grow up that money'll be yours. Now swear. "I will guard Pearl with my life..."
I will guard Pearl with my life...
..."and I won't never tell about the money."
And I won't never tell about the money.
Ben, I'm a Man of God.
Tryin' to make me talk about it in my sleep!
No, Ben.
What'd I say? What? What? What? What?
You was quotin' Scripture. You said  you said, "And a little child shall lead them."
Hm!
You killed two men, Ben Harper.
That's right, Preacher. I robbed that bank because I got tired of seein' children roamin' the woodlands without food, children roamin' the highways in this year of Depression; children sleepin' in old abandoned car bodies on junkheaps; and I promised myself I'd never see the day when my youngins'd want.
With that ten thousand dollars I could build a Tabernacle that'd make the Wheeling Island Tabernacle look like a chickenhouse!
Would you have free candy for the kids, Preacher?
Think of it, Ben! With that cursed, bloodied gold!
How come you got that stickknife hid in your bedblankets, Preacher?
I come not with Peace but with a Sword.
You, Preacher?
That Sword has served me through many an evil time, Ben Harper.
What religion do you profess, Preacher?
The religion the Almighty and me worked out betwixt us.
I'll bet.
Salvation is a lastminute business, boy.
Keep talkin', Preacher.
If you was to let that money serve the Lord's purposes, He might feel kindly turned towards you.
Keep talkin', Preacher.
Any trouble?
No.
He was a cool one, that Harper. Never broke.
He carried on some; kicked.
He never told about the money.
No.
What do you figure he done with it?
He took the secret with him when I dropped him.
That one.
Nah. Hates his wife.
Skateboarders I don't mind, even though they dress like fuckin' idiots, but when I see some pinhead on rollerblades, I get the definite urge to grease the grill of my car with 'em.
Keep your eyes peeled.
What about them?
I'm looking for them.
Where?
Right there.
Look at 'em. He'd do anything for her.
Young love.
Foreigners! Fuck!
Frogs. They copy our blue jeans and when we need their help in Kuwait, where the fuck are they?
You don't want to cause a ruckus, with the little girl and all.
Come with me, honey.
And what happens if I don't call you?
I kill her anyway.
God can't help her, Mr. Watson. Only you can help her.
Only you.
You're wasting time.
You talk to a cop, you even look at a cop too long and your daughter is dead. Do it.
Go ahead, sugar Die.
That's enough.
'Daddy has to go now.
Yeah.
Do it!
Come Back.
Yeah.
Put her on.
What gives?
Just put her on.
You got this under control?
Yeah.
It doesn't look like it.
It's under control.
It better be.
Somebody mind telling me... ) What the hell happened!?
Help me get her off the rug.
Where is he? Did you lose him?
Shut up.
Get moving.
You' oughta learn to relax. I told you I've got it under control.
It's time. It's time now.
You stole that.
No, I didn't. I confiscated it. There's a difference.
Hey, would you look at this crazy car? Everybody has their own radio. What do you think of that?
Everybody does?
Yep. And you can listen to it without anybody else listening. Let's try it out.
This is what they call the jack. Hi, Jack!
Laughs.
It goes in that little hole.
He's going to help the police. Your daddy is going to be a hero.
My daddy is going to be a hero? Like Power Rangers?
That's pretty good.
I've done much better ones than this.
You have, huh?
Oh, yes. I'll show you. I have much more colors at home.
That's good. That's good, sweetie pie.
Where are we going?
Not very far, honeypie. Not far at all.
I'm not a baby.
You're a big girl, huh?
I'm not a big girl but I'm not a baby.
Close your eyes.
Why?
I've got something for you.
A surprise?
You ask too many questions. You want the surprise or not?
He brought a gun onto the pool deck.
What?
He got onto the pool deck with a gun. How did he get past her Security carrying a
I see. Where is this gun?
Well, is it real? Do we know anything about it?
It looks real. I don't know anything about guns.
Could I see it?
Just giving you the gift of a clean windshield. Only cost you a dollar.
I don't want my windshield cleaned.
You just think you don't want your windshield cleaned.
No, I know I don't want it cleaned. Get out of here.
Don't be like that. Think of me as the Moses of dirty windshields leading you through the desert of dead bugs.
For the last time, I don't want it cleaned. Now get the hell out of here!
It's already done. I've already done it. You have to pay me now.
I don't have to pay you nothin'.
You're going to deny me a lousy dollar after I've sweated like a pig giving you the gift of a clean windsheild?
Fuckin' A.
I don't think so.
Hey!
I think this is worth a dollar.
Oh, we'll have to do better than that.
You worthless piece of shit! Gimme that!
Goddamnit, you fuckin' bum, come here!
Gimme a dollar.
Fuck you!
What do you do, if I may be so bold?
I'm just an accountant.
Don't denigrate yourself, my friend. Where would the government be without accountants? They wouldn't know how hard they can squeeze us before we pop, isn't that right?
I have to do something.
What's that? You have to speak up. I'm a little deaf in this ear. Between that and my wooden leg I'm a mess. Compliments of the United States Army Artillery Corps.
I said I have to do something.
I'll have you out of here in two shakes o'f a lamb's tail.
Is within himself.
You got anything smaller?
Keep it.
It's a twenty.
Keep it.
Can I get out to Flower Street from here?
Sure. Go down past the bar. Take you right out there.
You remember me?
I remember. The big tipper.
Something is going to happen. When it's over you'll know what I was talking about.
Oh, man...
Please. Something is going to happen...
What? The end of the world? Man, don't give me your mad rap. I'm not a bartender. I don't want to hear it. I raise a family doing this bullshit. Do me a favor. Get your crazy white ass out of my chair.
Please...
Hey, a big tip doesn't give you the right to crap in my ear. You want change? You got it, brother. What was that you gave me, a twenty?
Mister, what are you dragging me into?
I'm not dragging you into anything. I don't expect...
Cover your mouth.
What?
This gorilla's watching you, is that right?
That's right.
Then don't let him be seeing you talking to me. I don't want him twisting my arm off.
My daughter. They have her in a van across the street. They say they'll kill her if I don't do something for them.
In twentyfive minutes in the California Ballroom.
There was a woman. She was trying to help me. I watched him murder her.
What are you supposed to do?
Kill the Governor.
I knew I should have packed up and gone home as soon as I got that twenty. What am I supposed to do about this situation?
One of them is in on it. He might even be in charge. Her Security is in on it. There's only one person I know for sure isn't in on it.
Who?
The Governor. If I could just talk to her...
Oh, Jesus ...
No way, there's nothing you can do to help me.
Then why'd you drag me into it?
It's my kid. I've got to...to somehow...do right by my little girl.
It's about time I did. I was one of those guys, workaholics. I worked my ass off for them  my wife, my daughter. That's just what I thought I was supposed to do.
Yeah, all right, listen...
So when she wanted a divorce...I was...I didn't know what I'd done wrong. I didn't see it. I didn't see it....
Why don't you tell me about the early years some other time?
I'm sorry. You understand I don't mind dying if I could save my daughter. I mean that.
Yeah, now listen. I can't mess with these shoes any more or it's gonna look funny. You go down get yourself something to drink. Make sure Godzilla there, follows you.
What are you going to do?
Keep the change.
Don't think I won't.
Meet Irene.
Hi.
Irene is going to help.
Thank you.
You said there was only one person you knew wasn't in on this thing.
Yeah.
You're going to go see her.
What!?
What am I supposed to say to her?
It'll come to you. See if you can stop this thing 'fore it gets started. Save us all considerable embarrassment.
Well?
I don't know.
What are you going to do now?
What are you going to do!?
This is about power and you haven't got any. There's nothing more you can do. I'm sorry. Thanks for trying.
Thanks for the shine.
Thanks for the tip.
I'm serious, honey. Don't get out of my sight, all right? I want you to stay right by me. Will you do that for me?
Nods solemnly. GENE reaches the platform and gives out an exaggerated sigh.
We made it.
Haven't you ever seen anybody kiss like that?
On TV.
You never saw your Mom and me kiss like that?
So, come on. You never saw us kiss like that?
No way.
How did you see us kiss?
Ready?
Nods.
Let' s do it.
Now, see, this is why you should always wear a helmet and knee pads. You never know when you're going to fall down and go boom. Right?
Right.
Lynn!
I can hear you good. Can you hear me?
Yes. Yes, I can hear you.
He has to say "over and out". Daddy, you have to say "over and out".
Over and out.
Yes, sweetie, it's me.
I'm tired. I want to.go now.
I know you do, honey.
Can we go now?
Not just yet, baby. There's...there's something Daddy has to do.
To be a hero?
No, honey, not to be a hero. But I want you to remember something for me, all right?
All right.
He's doing it for you. No matter what anybody tells you, no matter who they are, he's doing it for you, because he loves you.
Will you promise me that?
I promise.
All right. Kisses to you.
No...kisses to you.
No. Kisses to you.
No, kisses to...
Is that something precious?
No, that's,..that's fine
My wife always said I had a problem trusting people.
Well, you can trust Eleanor Samara Grant.
You don't understand. I'm going to trust you. And you have to trust me.
Yes, you're right, I don't understand.
Look...my daughter ... she's going to die...unless you can help me.
All right, let's just...let's get security in on this.
No! You can't! They're in on it.
I don't see how they could be in on it. They're the best. They're hand picked.
I don't know.
You've got to trust me. I'm putting my daughter's life in your hands. She's only six. She's just a little girl. Please, please, trust me.
It's a little hard to trust you under the circumstances.
The man following me has a walkie talkie. If he sees I'm not here he'll call his partner. I do anything out of line and he'll send the word to kill my daughter.
He'll think you're in the crowd until the end of the speech. Wait a minute.
Are you sure?
I've heard this speech a lot. Come on. We'll take care of him. We will.
But...
Trust me. You asked me for help. Let me help. Trust me.
Okay...
I think you better put that away.
I think you're right.
Who is this? Are you sure we can trust him?
I'm sure. It's her husband. He's her Campaign Manager.
We have to hurry.
I know. Brendan, listen to me. Someone is trying to kill Eleanor.
Could I see some identification, sir?
What?
Is this about those kids? Look, I'm sorry about that. But they darn near...
You're from Santa Maria, Mr. Watson?
Yes.
Come with us, sir.
I'd like to know what...
Hey! I'll take the girl. I'll take the girl!
Don't worry. She's good with kids.
Daddy?
Yes. It's OK, Lynn. These are our friends.
Pay attention, Mr. Watson. Pay attention and your daughter won't be hurt.
You wouldn't...
Yes, yes, I understand.
Good.
This is for you. In it there is a picture of a woman and an itinerary. It is her itinerary. She is presently  are you listening, Mr. Watson?
Yes, I'm listening.
She is presently at the Bonaventure Hotel. That's right near here.
You're out of your mind.
What's your point?
I will do no such thing.
Yes, you will, Mr. Watson.
Look at your watch. Look at it! At onethirty your little girl is dead. Say it with me. At onethirty my little girl is dead. Say it. Say it!
At one thirty my little girl is dead.
Unless you do what you're told. Go do it!
This says "invitation only".
Of course you're invited. You're a big donor to the campaign. They love you.
This'11 get you in anywhere. Red Elevator. Thirtyfifth floor.
Where did you get these? Who are you?
I'm the guy who's going to kill your daughter if you don't get moving.
Are you 'fucking with me!?
The gun...
What about the gun?
It wasn't loaded. I didn't put the bullets in it.
You...
You get another chance in ten minutes.
Then I have time for a drink.
What would you do in my place?
Me?
What...?
Tell me why I miss him.
He's dead?
That's right. He's dead. Tell me why.
How should I...?
Tell me why he's dead.
You killed him.
That's right, I killed him. He fucked up one too many times so I put a bullet in his eye. Then I put two more into him just to make sure. Now that was somebody I loved.
I killed you.
You fucked up.
I'm not stupid.. I know how this is supposed, to work.
Do you now, Mr. Watson?
I kill her  and you kill me.
Keep your voice down.
Even if you don't, Her Security men will.
How am I supposed to get away?
That's not my problem, Mr. Watson
Come back.
How do I know you won't kill my daughter once I'm gone?
Again.
No, please...
One thirty. California Ballroom.
That's right. That gives you...
...twentysix minutes to get your shit together.
Let me talk to her again.
No.
I want'to talk to her.
Forget about it.
I talk to her or you can forget about it.
Don't you threaten me.
What are you going to do about it, shoot me?
You know what I'm gonna do.
What? Walk out there and twist her arm off?
I need your help.
What can I do for you Mr....Watson?
Its'...ah...about my daughter....
You were saying? Your daughter....?
I...
Yes?
She ..ahh...wanted me to... be sure to get your autograph.
Of course. I wish everything were that easy.
Mrs. Grant, Governor...I won't hurt you.
My security people are right next door.
I appreciate that.
One loud scream will bring them in here instantly. You won't get very far. Think it over.
If I were here to hurt you I would have done it already.
That's...a comfort to hear.
I have a problem.
Ah.
Only you can help me. I'm also sorry to say, my problem is your problem, Mrs. Grant.
I remember you...in the elevator.
That's right.
You were very nervous.
It was because I had this...in my pocket
How do you know that?
I saw her die. She was shot. With this gun.
You shot her?
No.
Who did?
I don't know. The only thing I know about him is that he works for your husband.
What?
And your husband works for somebody else.
What the hell are you saying?
I knew you wouldn't believe me.
I said I'd listen to you, not necessarily believe you. You're telling me my people are in a plot against me. You're telling me my husband wants me killed. What do you expect?
There's only one way to find out for sure. Try to cancel the last speech.
I'd prefer we didn't refer to it as my last speech.
It's the last chance they have for me to kill you. Try to get out of it. They won't let you. They can't. Try to change the schedule and you'll know I'm right. What have you got to lose? It comes down to who you trust, them or me? Test them.
I love it when pistolero's talk of trust.
This? I've never even fired one.
Indeed.
I...1 would like to...thank you, Mister Wat... Gene.
I would also like to apologize.
For what?
For not believing you.
Believe me, I don't blame you. This is the Governor, Lynn. Say hello.
Can we go now?
Of course. I'll get a car to drive you.
No, that's... That's OK. We don't need any help. We'll be just fine. Won't we, Lynn?
Good luck.
Same to you.
Where to, sir?
The Bonaventure. The Bonaventure Hotel. Do you know where that is?
Amtrack?
What?
You just come in on Amtrack?
Uh, yes..
Business or pleasure?
Business.
Where'd you come from?
San Diego.
Oh, San Diego? I've thought about moving to San Diego. It's hard to make a living in this town. These short hops. Can't make a dime on 'em. To LAX, Pasadena, then I can make a buck. These little hops cost me money.
Sorry.
'S okay. What do you think?
Huh?
Better in San Diego? More opportunity there? What?
I really don't know. I don't live there. I was just visiting...a grave.
Aw, too bad.
Somebody close?
What?
The grave. Somebody close?
Look...I've... I've got a problem. A big problem...
Oh, yeah?
Lousy. And I have siesta hair. I'm thinking of canceling the speech.
It's an important speech.
During a campaign every speech is important. This is free media exposure. Primetime news coverage that we couldn't buy.
What's he doing here?
Who, him? Just visiting.
Don't remind me.
What happened here?
Nothing. I broke a lamp.
Truth is, besides the headache I've come down with a little lower intestinal havoc. Make my apologies.
Come on, El, you're a trooper. I'll get you some Pepto, you'll make one of your patented tributes to the common person, then back to Sacramento. This is no time to lay down on the job. I don't care what the polls say, you can't afford to relax. Look what happened to Bush. Tell you what, if you want to blow off the Sacramento speech, fine. But do this one and we'll get out of the smog.
All right, I'll do it.
That's my girl.
But I want to make some changes. Get Krista in here right away won't you?
Aw, gee. I sent her on an errand.
You sent my assistant on an errand.
I've been a bad boy.
Craig, I want you to meet my old lady, Suga. Suga, this is Craig.
Oooh, baby!
Okay, okay, that's enough. Go put on some damn clothes.
Elroy.
Suga. Go ahead and get us something to smoke on.
Okay. Bye, Craig.
Huh?
What you doing to my nephew?
Ah, baby...I thought this was you. Craig, what are you doing to me?
Mr. Nasty time?
Mr. Nasty time. But take it easy on me, girl.
Craig, you ain't the only lightweight around here.
Elroy, what happen?
I threw my back, again.
Aw, no lovin' tonight?
Naw, baby, no lovin' tonight.
Come on, baby, let's go in the house.
For what? We ain't gonna have no house after the auction tomorrow!
Make sure you look after my son out here. Don't get him involved with none of your bullshit, Roy.
Don't worry 'bout nothin', big bro. He in the best fuckin' hands in Rancho Chocomunga, baby! This my world, you just a nigga late paying rent. Ain't that right, nephew?
I got your message. Where's Craig?
I don't know, I didn't leave you no damn message!
You didn't call the Sandwich Joint with a urgent message?
Hell naw, Willie. Them fleas and tics must be sucking on yo' brain!
Somebody left me a message. Well where's Craig and DayDay?
I don't know. Suga, go ask Miss Ho Kym if she seen them.
You come way out here to get into more trouble. You could've stayed at home.
Willie, shut up. Yo' old ass need to get in a little bit o' trouble sometimes.
Don't get it twisted, Elroy. I ain't lost none of my street skills.
What about that ugly dog?
I got my mase.
Need to lose some weight.
Shut yo' ass up.
Damn, big bro. You swung that like Sammy Sosa.
The skills are still intact. Now tie his ass up, Elroy.
My back.
What's the matter?
I slip my disc, again... Oh got damn.
Well, we better hit the road, too. Craig, get your stuff.
Well, Craig, you're welcome anytime.
I thought you were taking me to see Mama?
I'll take you later.
When? After you get all drunk and loaded?
Hey! I said I'll take your fuckin' ass later. Now get out of here. You're scaring our company.
Hey, what's going on?
Nothing. What you want?
Are you going to take me to see Mom?
Take your car.
'Take your car?'
Yeah, and hurry up.
Where did Craig move to?
I don't know, Debo.
What you say?
He moved out to Rancho Cucamonga with his cousin DayDay.
Rancho Cucamonga?
Yeah.
Get on.
Man, we can't ride to Rancho Cucamonga on that.
Get on!
Here's the plan. You gonna call over there and say you have a very urgent message for Mr. William Jones.
What urgent message?
If you shut up I'll tell you. The urgent message is...Drop everything! Craig is in trouble. Come quick, don't call.
That ain't gonna work.
Just do it.
I don't know the number.
William.
Yeah, I got a urgent message for a customer named William Jones. Drop everything, Craig is in trouble. Come quick. Don't try to call.
You too big.
Keep pushing.
Debo! Debo!
What?
I can't feel my legs no more.
Me neither. How far is Rancho Cucamonga?
I don't know.
Ezal! Ezal!
Huh?
We must be here 'cause we stopped.
Good, let's get out.
Hey, how you get out of here.
I don't know.
What the fuck you looking at?
Nothing.
Uh...um...I mean uh, can we borrow a cup of sugar?
What?! This look like a 711 or something? Get the fuck outta here!
Alright, no problem. We gone.
Shut up! Both of you right now!
Shhhh! Roach, shut the fuck up.
I don't believe this sugar shit. Something ain't right.
Why would he take it? He don't even know you.
Shut up! Where's that other miyatea?
Tape his mouth shut.
Joker, a man like yourself can do a lot for this community. By letting us go, you can improve black and brown relations.
Wet your eyes, boy. Stay in there for about 20 minutes.
20 minutes?
Yeah, 20 minutes. Trust me. I've been pepper sprayed nine times. 20 minutes.
Ah damn. Damn.
I got fired too.
What?!
When my back gets better I'mma beat the black off you, DayDay.
I know. I'm sorry.
Sorry, my ass.
Where's Craig?
I don't know.
Look, Roach, I know you ain't never worked in a record shop before and you're a little excited. But if Pinky catches you doing that XGames shit off his counter top, we both getting fired. You feel me?
I feel you. I've just been practicing that one move all week. I thought that was it.
Did you see that? That was a W.W.F. hit right there, huh, DayDay?
Yeah, it was. How you get up here?
Craig, this Roach. Roach, this is my cousin, Craig.
What up, bro?
What it say?
Ever since my momma died the bills are always late.
What is it?
Don't worry about it, man. Get the phone.
That the big one, huh?
You damn right that's the big one.
What was that?
You don't wanna know.
Are they still out there?
Negative...they vamped.
Today ain't my day.
Bummer, huh? And Friday is suppose to be a kickass day.
I do.
Damn nigga, don't Jack the joint. I didn't even pass it.
Sorry, dude.
Roach, what are you doing?
RUSH Intensely.
I gotta think of a plan to get this money before tomorrow.
You could sell your Beamer.
I don't know. I hope Craig got a good idea. We gotta ask him when he comes out. Let's go and clean up before Pinky gets here.
Maybe you can ask him to loan you the money.
Yoooo, that's it. You ain't as dumb as I think you are, Roach.
I know.
Who the fuck is that, DayDay?
Let it go, Roach, trust me.
I'm not letting nothing go. They killed my board.
Let it go!
I say we go over there and kick their asses. I can take the little one.
Are you out your mind? I'm not messing with them S.A.'s boy. You must be crazy.
Try an' hold it, man. Squeeze your ass cheeks together.
Butterflies, my ass. I'm about to go home.
Roach...Roach, come on.
Where's Craig?
He's inside the house?
Why did he go in the house?
Don't worry about it. We gotta figure out a way to get Craig out of there. He's probably getting tied up now.
You wanna knock?
Go for it.
'Scuse me, partner, but that's a ghetto knock.
This is a knock.
Look, man, this is a big misunderstanding. All we wanted to do is borrow some sugar.
And some rolling papers.
...and some rolling papers, that's it. We didn't mean to mess up y'all get together or nothing. How y'all doing?
Hey.
Ya'll live around here?
What?! What that mean?
I don't know.
Money? Man, we came over here from some sugar and rolling papers. We was going to get high, and I was going to show this white boy how to make KoolAid. That's all.
Hey, mister Joker, have a heart, bro. It's Friday.
Get 'em, Craig!
Bite his ear!
Finally you got a bitch, huh, Roach?
He's a boy, dude.
Hey, guys, I'm outta here.
Thanks for the help.
Hey, man, the pleasure's all mine. Thanks for the dog, and the money. Maybe my dad won't kick my ass tonight.
Call me.
Okay, later, bro. Hey, Craig, nice smokin' wit'cha.
I can't get jiggy with this shit. Where is the damn manager?
Sir, the manager stepped out for a moment. I'm currently running the store. Can I see the CD?
No, give me my damn money back. Right now, and I don't have no damn receipt neither.
Okay, sir...but where's the cover?
I don't have no damn cover.
I can't give you your damn money back on this.
Bullshit! I'll go postal in this mothafucka!
Well, you gonna have to go postal then.
My name is Miss Ho Kym. DayDay just trying to be a smart ass. Nice to meet you, Craig. Are you 'bout it, 'bout it?
Excuse me?
I said...are you 'bout it, 'bout it  rowdy, rowdy?
Yeah, I'm 'bout it.
Well, then, it's all good. Yo, DayDay, something is going down with those Mexicans across the street? I've been seeing a lot of activity.
What kind of activity?
Strange activity. I think they running drugs off Tijuana. DayDay don't believe me.
See you later, DayDay. Come by after work, I got the John Blaze shit for you.
Nice to meet you?
Peace out, Craig.
Why for? Them boys are real player haters.
It's a long story. Right now we gotta do somethin'.
I'll be out in about 3540 minutes!
Hurry up; today is Friday! And we gotta hit the highway!
Here I come!
Well bring yo' ass on...
What's the matter?
I fell in some mud. Now hurry up!
That nigga worst than them damn pit bulldogs or something! That's why moving wit'cha Uncle Elroy and Cousin DayDay is the best thing for you right now.
Ya'll making me look like a punk.
It ain't about being a punk, son. It's about this...
Must be your upper lip, 'cause I don't smell nothing.
I do.
What it smell like?
Smells like you didn't fall in no mud.
I gotta get'em fixed. They don't roll down.
All damn.
Just hold your breath.
Nice neighborhood, huh?
It's alright.
18years of chasing dogs; and my lazy ass brother hits the lotto his first time playing. I still can't figure that one out.
Why they got to have the loudest house on the block!
You coming in?
No, I'mma go on to work. I don't wanna hear Elroy's mouth. Now listen to me, Craig. It's gonna be different living over here. Don't let your uncle and your cousin get you into no shit. Understand?
Hey, Pops, I'm grown. Can't nobody get me in trouble no more.
Craig, remember what I told you.
I'll remember.
Hold up, Elroy, that's my boy. Craig, what the hell wrong with you? Where you been?
Have you seen DayDay?
You see that?
I saw it.
Two bullets? Yo' ass ain't changed. Back in the day, all I had was a stick.
Come on.
Nigga, you got knock the fuck out.
Yeah, pops!
You too.
Smokin' what?
Nothing.
Delivery!
Hold on.
Delivery!
I said hold on!
Could you hurry up, please... it's kinda hot out here.
Can I help you?
Nice house. Didn't expect you to answer. You must be one of those entertainers. What team you play for?
I don't play for no team.
Come on, jerky, you can tell me. Got a white wife, huh? Blonde bombshell type. Remember what happen to O.J... what team do you play for? You're not related to the Jacksons, are you?
Naw, I play for the Chocamunga Cracker Killers. You want tickets?
Okay, buddy. Don't send your entourage out here to do a 187 on me. It's just a certified mail delivery.
What is it?
Delinquent Property Tax Notice... I hope the Cracker Killers pay well 'cause if not, back to the ghetto you go. Wife stays here, of course.
Karla.
Craig and Karla, damn that sound pretty good together. Where you going?
To the Cucamonga shopping center.
Oh yeah, why you walking?
My brothers won't give me a ride.
You want us to give you a ride?
I don't know.
What you mean, you don't know? Just wait here.
Hello, remember me?
Hell yeah, I remember you.
I'm sorry for what my brother did this morning. They're assholes.
It's cool. You ain't got to apologize for your brothers. They're big boys.
I just wanted to give you this.
Most definitely.
Better sooner than later.
Huh?
What are you doing here?
I hope you don't think I'm crazy, but I just had to come in here and show you I ain't scared of yo' punk ass brothers...and you wouldn't have be scared of 'em neither if you had a man like me in yo' life.
What?? So you snuck in my room to tell me that?
Yes I did. Excuse me.
You did all this for me?
Most of it. I just hate to see you in this situation.
Thanks for noticing. It used ta be peaceful before they got out. Took over the house and caused my mother's nervous breakdown.
Why didn't she put'em out?
Easier said than done. We saved up to get away from them, but they followed us.
I'm sorry to hear that.
I did. Is that door locked?
It's locked.
Make sure.
I got my cousin DayDay waiting for me.
So what? Let's make'em wait.
Next time, page me first.
Okay.
You alright?
Yeah, I'm cool. See you later.
What's crackin'?
You. Hi, Uncle Willie.
You know it's been over a year since we kicked it last? Up at the family reunion.
I know, that's when Uncle Elroy cussed out everybody, and threw up in Aunt Faye's backseat.
Yep. I forgot about him cussin' out everybody. Damn that was fun.
I know, we had a good time. But ever since you guys moved out here, it seems like we've lost touch.
I know; this a long way from Watts. But what I like about living out here is that you don't hear no helicopters, no sirens, no driveby's, no nothing. Just peace and quiet. Listen.
Who is that?
Joker, he just got out of the pen. Li'l Joker, he just got out of Youth Authority. And Baby Joker, he just got out of Juvenile Hall.
They ever let you hit the switches on that Cadillac?
Naw, them dudes is assholes. Especially that dog  Cheeco. Watch this little ass, he's sneaky. Plus, I got something better than a Cadillac.
This you?
Yeah, that's me. Just a little somethin' somethin' I picked up.
Must be nice. I wish we won the lottery. Come up on a million dollars like ya'll.
Man, after taxes, lawyer fees, and paying off my daddy's bad credit, we didn't end up with a million. We bought this house and I spent the rest on this. It's the bomb, huh?
This my baby. I feel like a new nigga in this car. I get mo' phone numbers rollin' this, than I ever did on the bus.
Man, this a cool house.
Thanks, I just wish my mother had a chance to see it.
Go on and make yourself at home. I'mma go get dressed for work.
Oh, yeah, where you work at?
Pinky's Records and Disc in the shopping center. I'mma talk to my boss and see if he got a little position for you. 'Cause you been unemployed for a long time now, Craig.
Thanks for reminding me.
I can't see! I can't see! Daddy!
Lay down, DayDay. Stop moving.
She peppersprayed me, man! She pepper sprayed me!
I know, be still.
You straight?
Yeah, I'm alright. Is my face still orange to you?
Just a little.
I can't taste nothing.
What's the matter with your girlfriend?
Man, it's a long story. I met D'Wana three months ago. She had a little pudge in her stomach but I didn't pay it no attention. Come to find out, she six months pregnant. Saying I'm the daddy!
What?
Yeah, I broke up with her two Fridays ago and she's been harassing me ever since. She don't care about the restraining order or nothing.
Restraining order? Where the hell you meet this girl?
I went back to Watts to sell my old car and met her on the way. Worst day of my life.
Damn, you got a stalker.
That ain't the worst part. Her little sister, Baby D. She's the one that gets real physical. But I got a restraining order on her, too.
You got a restraining order on a little girl named Baby D?
You don't know Baby D.
Who is that?
That's the sister.
Yo know what? I'm starting to like Rancho Cucamonga.
I know what 'cha thinking. I thought the same thing. But it can't happen.
Why?
Because, it's been a little tension between us ever since they got out the joint and ran their momma crazy. And I'm just trying to keep the peace. We moved out here to get away from that shit.
So.
What you mean, so?
If you 'get into it' with them S.A.'s and start a feud, you can always go back to home. I gotta live here. Just remember that.
I walked.
You walked?
Yeah, ya'll got a notice today. It came certified mail.
You know what this is?
Yeah, that's why I walked down here.
How can they do this?
I don't know. Did ya'll forget to pay it or something?
It says we owe $3,900...by tomorrow.
Damn...how much money ya'll got left from the lottery?
$247.
Okay, plan B.
What's the matter?
D'Wana brought Baby'D up here.
I ain't trying to get in it.
You already in.
You better stop running from that girl.
Fuuuuuuck  U!
Thanks a lot, Craig.
I know we cousins and all, but don't try an' hook me up with the big little sisters.
Big bitches need love, too, Craig.
I didn't think you smoked bud that much.
I don't.
You better open up a window or something before the smell gets out.
Ain't no windows in here.
Blow.
That ain't gonna work.
It works.
Still gonna smell it.
This vacuum don't work. Where's the restroom?
Out the door and to the left.
Craig, what the hell are you doing?
Nothing.
What we gonna do?
I don't know yet.
Alright, Roach, see you around.
Sorry about today, man.
You see that?
I didn't see nothing.
Yeah, air.
Naw. I bet'cha it's something better than air.
How you know? It could be anything.
I don't know, and it could be anything. But I just say we go take a look.
Man, I don't think I can do this, Craig. I got the BG's.
What's the BG's?
The bubble guts. I'm so nervous it feels like I'mma shit on myself.
You make it sound so easy.
It is easy. You know why? 'Cause they're not expecting it. Now, Roach, you gotta occupy Cheeco. Long enough for me and DayDay to take a good look.
You go first.
Naw, you go first.
You go first.
No.
DayDay, if you don't hop that fence I'mma throw you over.
I ain't scared of you. We ain't little no more.
I hope to God that dog is happy.
Me too.
Wait.
Wait for what?
What you see?
That pump was full of money. I saw where they put it. Stay right here, I'mma climb in and go get it.
Wait here? So Cheeco can bite my ass off? Tell me where it is I'll do it.
No, man, just wait.
You're welcome, Unc.
What about me?
You sure you don't wanna stay?
Naw, I'm got live ghetto fabulous. make sure you get that car fixed.
I will. When can I come visit?
I don't know. Probably next Friday.
I ain't trying to rob you...
Shut up! Fo' I pump this Glock in yo' ass! What did you do wit DayDay and Roach?
Man, DayDay is my people!
I said shut up! Now who sent you?
Nobody!
If you say another word, it's over. I'm not playing!
Shut up. I been trying to tell yo' ass that... DayDay is my cousin. They're right there in the back.
Whatever you say, man. I didn't see shit. The safe combination is 34527. Just take it all.
No I'm not.
I'll do it.
Great moves, DayDay.
What happen?
What you mean talk to her?
You know what he mean, dude.
I'm gone.
For sure. That's how I like 'em.
Not me.
Yeah it is...the best day before the weekend.
That's fuckin' poetic, Craig.
What's the green stuff poking out?
That's crondon, sir. My mom hates for me to smoke, so she made me budbrownies. Wanna bite?
Naw, I already ate.
Come on, Day, try it. For moms.
Sorry, bro, reflexes. How did you do that?
Black magic.
Me neither.
It's something in that hydraulic pump.
It's about to work, just come on.
What about the dog?
Dude, dogs hate me. I don't know why. Me and K9's just don't get along.
Well get along with this one. Go ahead of us. Don't get seen and don't let that mutt out of your sight.
Fuck, what's his name?
Cheeco.
Who are you?
I'm his cousin.
We didn't come here for DayDay.
Yes you did.
No we didn't. We came to buy a CD.
Where's that boy that told me DayDay was here?
I don't know... I think he went out the back.
Can I look for myself?
Where you going?
Ain't the rest room this way? I gotta pee.
Hey, Debo, heard you running from a ass whippin'?
Naw, it ain't like that.
If you see that boy again, bite off his ear off like Mike Tyson.
Alright, I'll remember that.
You know me? I would've shot his big ass. Hey, Willie, how's it going? Still steppin' in dog shit every day?
Send Betty my love. Boy you looking good. I'mma take these in the house for you, man... and when you finish with this cat, come inside. I got something to show you.
Thanks, Unc.
Man, that girl's gonna kill me one day. Viagra ain't working. My back keep going out... she don't never get enough. But check this out. I got to lay some ground rules. Your my family and I love you. You're welcome to anything you want in my home. But I don't wanna catch you in the refrigerator or in my Suga bowl... you feel me knocking?
Yeah.
Well, let me in.
Uncle Elroy, who's that girl by DayDay's car?
Yeah, you gotta have a little money to live out here, Craig. I never thought I'd be the kinda nigga to move to the suburbs. But as soon as I got my check, I was gone. Paid 230 thousand dollars cash on this house.
You paid cash?
Cash money. They wasn't gonna stick me with no 30year payment plan. That's for suckas. They got my daddy like that for a Cadillac years ago. I got the only house on the block that's paid for. That's why I'm the king around here.
It's cool, but where's the water?
Don't need water. We didn't have no pool in the projects...so none of us swim.
Y'all never use it?
Never... But me and Suga can get real nasty in that Jacuzzi, though.
That's okay, Unc. I can't swim, either.
Good.
I know you smoke weed, right?
Why you say that?
'Cause your lips is getting black.
Negro, what the hell you doing to my woman?
I don't know!
Suga!
I don't know, I think I passed out or something. I don't remember.
Passed out? Can't hang, huh? Boy, I knew you was a lightweight. Passed out on one funky ass blunt. They don't make 'em like they used to, baby.
No. Thought he was with you.
Daddy, Uncle Elroy, I need your help.
Me, too. You think they're in there?
Yup.
That's a nice piece of heat right there.
Thank you. I only got two bullets in the mothafucka, but it's better than nothing.
Stretch it out.
Don't move me.
Okay, I know what I want this time.
Anything you need.
Yo' cousin, Craig. Hook us up.
That's it?
Just tell him to come over here and talk to me.
And I can go free?
Go, fo' I change my mind.
Napoleon was born at Ajaccio in Corsica on August 15th, 1769. He had not been a healthy baby and his mother, Letizia, lavished him with care and devotion. In middle age, he would write about her from St. Helena.
My mother has always loved me. She would do anything for me.
His moods at this time were complex and varied.
Life is a burden for me. Nothing gives me any pleasure; I find only sadness in everything around me. It is very difficult because the ways of those with whom I live, and probably always shall live, are as different from mine as moonlight is from sunlight.
He made friends with a family called Columbier, and would later write of his first flirtation with their daughter, Caroline.
It will scarcely be considered credible, perhaps, but our whole business consisted in eating cherries together.
Napoleon would soon arouse the resentment of the Directory in Paris, exceeding his authority, making political decisions and treaties like a Roman Conqueror, enlarging his role to ruler of Italy. Only his tremendous success and ever increasing popularity prevented the Directory from replacing him.
From that moment on, I foresaw what I might be. Already I felt the earth flee beneath me, as if I were being carried away up to the sky.
On December 2, 1804, Napoleon was made Emperor of France. He would later say: "I found the crown lying in the gutter and I picked it up."
Duroc, I have a bill here for 600,000 francs from Tirot, for building the Imperial throne and six decorated armchairs. The amount is absurd  and, at least twice too much.
Led by the warlike Queen Louisa, and her fashionminded husband, King Frederich Wilhelm, the Prussians still believed themselves cast in the mold of Frederick the Great, and more than a match for Napoleon. The King had a special collection of 60 splendid uniforms, and was personally involved in the design of all the Prussian army uniforms.
If the French army had been commanded at Jena and Auerstadt by a tailor, the King of Prussia would certainly have gained the day.
I know Alexander. His imagination must be struck by some great, bold, powerful stroke, and he will come back to me, just as he did at Friedland.
With his army of 400,000 men in concealed bivouacs, on a ten mile front, in the forests, bordering the banks of the Vistula river, Napoleon conducted a last minute personal reconnaissance, disguised in the uniform of a Polish lancer.
On January 1st, 1814, France itself was invaded. Now, with a small army of raw recruits, Napoleon would have to face the powerful combination of England, Russia, Prussia and Austria, operating against him together, for the first time. The balance of numbers had tilted irretrievably against him.
A year ago, the whole of Europe was marching alongside of us. Today, the whole of Europe is marching against us.
What did you say his name was?
Eugene de Beauharnais.
Is he alone?
Yes, sir.
Show him in.
Come in.
Major Lavallette to see you, General.
Send him in.
Come in.
A message from Citizen Fouche.
Let me have it.
Come in.
Citizen Bourrienne to see you, sir.
Send him in.
Good day to our brothersinarms. Have you come to join us?
I am looking for Monsieur George Varlac who resides in the Rue de Frelicot. Do you know him, monsieur?
Very well, Citizen Lieutenant. You have come to the right place, for I am Citizen Varlac.
A revolution is not a polite discussion in a parlor, Citizen Lieutenant. One does not call it murder to kill such vermin.
You may save your philosophy for the magistrate, Monsieur Varlac. I am only a simple officer in the army, and to me what you have done is called murder, and his always been called murder by honest men.
Then do you propose to arrest all of us, Citizen Lieutenant? For I was not there alone.
No, Monsieur Varlac, my warrant is only for you. Now, will you please come down at once. You will be taken back to Chalon for trial.
Citizen Lieutenant, my advice is to leave this town at once with your men. We do not wish to do harm to our brothers in uniform.
Monsieur Varlac, do not pretend to speak for these good people whom you have misled and inflamed with violent speech. Now, I order you to come down from the cart.
I suggest that you leave with your men while you can.
Monsieur Varlac, I will count slowly to five, and if you have not begun to get down from the cart by then, I will carry out your execution, on the spot.
Article 46, calls for the virtual dismemberment of Prussia, reducing her population by half and her army to a token force.
Does she deserve anything better?
Those are extremely harsh terms.
I did not ask her to go to war against me.
Has Alexander agreed to this?
Yes, he has.
Now, the section headed "Secret Clauses of the Treaty"  Article 14b, provides for Alexander to serve as mediator between France and England and, if he fails to achieve a preliminary agreement within four months, it further provides that Russia is to go to war against England, and close her ports to English trade.
That is correct.
Do you think Alexander has any chance to succeed as a mediator?
I very seriously doubt it. I don't think there is any possibility of making peace with England so long as she sees herself safe from invasion. That is why we must increase the pressure on her economy. With Russia in the Continental Blockade, England must collapse. More than 40% of her trade is with the Continent and Russia.
England can make no move against you on the Continent without Austria. A reliable treaty with Austria would end her hopes in that regard.
We have a treaty with Austria.
Not one I should like to rely on. Francis is still smarting under the terms he had to accept after Austerlitz, and he is under great pressure to recover his losses.
My dear Talleyrand, none of the Kings of Europe bear any friendship for France. It is easy for you to talk of reliable treaties. The only treaties you have been able to negotiate are the ones I have won on the battlefield.
What I am talking about is moderation.
What you are talking about is a gamble on moderation  when I gamble, I prefer to gamble on force.
And where do you place Alexander?
Alexander and I are friends. We have reached an understanding.
I hope that understanding is worth as much as you think it is, sire. My impression of Alexander is that he is moody and impressionable, capable of acting on sudden impulses which then lead to sudden embarrassments. He is an unpredictable mixture of idealism and vanity. You have dazzled him, and you have performed a diplomatic miracle, but Alexander is weak and he is easily influenced by the last one who has his ear.
That is a matter of opinion.
Sire, you have only enemies in the court of St. Petersburg, and I fear outside your influence, Alexander will have another look at what he has agreed to.
He will stand by his agreement  I know him better than you do.
Good evening, ladies. You must forgive me, my dearest wife, but I simply could not wait to see you.
Oh, then you are...
Yes, my dearest MarieLouise, I am your husband.
And, where did you see my portrait?
Ah, you must forgive me, my dearest MarieLouise, I saw it during one of my stays at your palace  at Schonbrunn.
And, you, my dear wife, do you find that I resemble my portraits?
You are much younger, and much more handsome, than your pictures.
Do you like music?
Yes, I do  very much.
Will I be able to play the harp? It is an instrument of which I am very fond.
Of course, my dear.
You are so good to me. Will you also allow me to have a botanical garden?
You may have anything you wish, my sweet and lovely MarieLouise.
I am told that Fontainebleau has many lovely views. I know nothing more interesting than a lovely countryside.
I am sure you will enjoy the French countryside.
I hope you have patience with me. I do not know how to dance the quadrille but, if you desire it, I will learn.
I only desire what gives you pleasure, my dearest.
Will it be possible to have my dog, Bijou, sent here? I was not allowed to bring her and I love her so much.
Of course, my dear  how cruel to have been separated from her. And how strange it must be for you to be here, away from your family and everything you know.
Oh, no, I am very happy. But you must have patience with me... I know nothing at all of what a wife must know. And I know nothing about men. My papa has never allowed me even to have a pet of the male gender.
Did the Emperor or Empress give you any... instructions of any kind... before you left?
Papa said only to comply with any request you might make of me.
Oh, my dearest child  you must not worry about anything. I will teach you everything that you must know.
Do you know the joke about the two Swiss boys who go to a bordello for the first time?
No.
Well, two nice little Swiss boys, who are virgins, decide they will save up their money and go to a bordello.
Good day, monsieur. Do you think it is possible for you to tell your driver to stop ringing that bell?
My regrets, my dear Major, but I believe you have been blocking the road.
Are you trying to provoke me, monsieur?
No, Major, I merely wish to state that your vehicle appears to be somewhat slower and heavier than mine, and point out that, if you would be kind enough to pull over to one side of the road, I could pass you and be on my way.
May I inform you, monsieur, that I am Major Fidon, official courier to the court of the Emperor Napoleon, on my way to our Embassy at St. Petersburg and, in accordance with the rules of the road, no one may overtake or pass me.
Before you quote the rules of the road to me, Major, may I point out to you that you are not in France now, but that you are a guest in Russia.
If I have given you any cause to be insulted, monsieur, may I offer you immediate satisfaction?
If you wish to put things on that basis, then I will say good day to you, monsieur.
No, one cannot simply ignore it.
I am afraid, then, I have to ask you both, Joseph as my brother, and Junot as my good friend, whether or not you know anything about this, or whether you saw anything at all during the trip which might make you suspect some truth to it.
I believe you sent for me.
Yes, yes, please sit down. I will be with you in a moment.
God damn it, Junot, wouldn't you think I have enough things on my mind not to waste time on a letter like this to Joseph?
There's probably some explanation.
Yes, I'm sure he's been too busy chasing his whores to be bothered about my wife.
Well, anyway, sorry to call you away from the festivities, but where is the breakdown on serviceable vehicles? I asked for it yesterday.
I gave it to Berthier... this afternoon.
Why did you give it to him?
I thought he would be seeing you before I would, and would give it to you.
Well, he didn't give it to me, and when I ask you to do something for me, return the work to me, not to Berthier.
I'm sorry, I thought he would give it to you.
I must have the breakdown now. Where is Berthier?
He's downstairs  somewhere.
All right, thank you. Please ask him to come here.
Yes... but, first, can I say something to you, as a friend?
Certainly.
I know that I shouldn't butt into things... that are really no concern of mine... but you shouldn't write a letter like that to Joseph.
Why not?
Well, maybe he's only looking out for your best interests.
What are you talking about?
Nothing. That's all I can say.
That's all you can say? What are you talking about?
That's all I can say.
Now, just a minute. You have just very clearly implied that there is a reason why Joseph should not give my wife the money which I left for her. I can't possibly allow a remark like that to go without explanation.
Let's just say, he looks after your interests.
Look, Junot, you aren't going to leave this room until you explain yourself.
There are some things... better left unsaid.
You mean about my wife?! You mean there are some things better left unsaid about Josephine?!
What the hell is the matter with you?
I didn't want to hurt you... All I wanted to do was to keep from hurting you. I swear I didn't want to hurt you.
Well, whatever the hell you wanted to do, you are going to tell me everything right now. Do you understand?!
You know that... letter you showed me in Milan  the one about Hippolyte Charles?
Yes.
I wrote it.
What?
Yes, I wrote it.
You wrote it.
I couldn't face telling you.
You couldn't face telling me what?
About Hippolyte Charles.
What was there to tell?
My God, what do you think?
Do you know what you're saying?
God help me  yes.
How do you know?
I know.
How do you know?
I was in her maid's room at an inn we stopped at for the night, outside of Dijon. It was an adjoining room to Madame Bonaparte's.
Yes?
You could hear them?
Yes.
You mean you heard them making love?
Yes.
How did you know it was Captain Charles?
I questioned the maid, and she admitted Charles had been Madame Bonaparte's lover for several months.
Can you give me a drink, please?
Yes, of course. What do you want?
I wanted to kill him but Joseph convinced me it would be a mistake. He said people would say you hadn't the courage to deal with it yourself.
And was it so widely known that Joseph had reason for such concern?
I believe so. I believe Madame Bonaparte was not discreet, in Paris.
Ah, how nice to meet you, General Bonaparte. One has read so much about you lately. Please sit down.
Thank you, Madame de Beauharnais. You probably don't recall but we met briefly a few months ago, at a party at Paul's house.
Oh... yes, of course! Have you met my daughter, Hortense?
Yes, we introduced ourselves at the door.
May I offer you a drink?
Oh, I don't want to put you to any inconvenience.
Oh, it's not the slightest inconvenience, General Bonaparte. It is an honor to have you here.
You are very kind, Madame de Beauharnais. Do you have some sherry, perhaps?
Yes, of course. Hortense, darling, will you tell Louise to bring some sherry?
I hope you will forgive me for barging in on you like this, Madame de Beauharnais. I called to bring this to your son, but I understand from your charming daughter that he is out for the afternoon.
Yes, I'm afraid he is. I believe he is riding. I know he'll be heartbroken to have missed you.
Well, I'm sure that you will be just as pleased to have this as he will be.
Oh... how very nice of you to bring that for Eugene... Did General de Beauharnais give it to you?
No, I'm afraid I never had the pleasure of meeting the General. This sword was taken several days ago from your son by some of my soldiers.
Oh, you must forgive me, General Bonaparte, I'm afraid you will think me incredibly stupid but I know absolutely nothing about this. Eugene is so independent  he hardly tells me anything any more, and he has so many things in his room, I must confess I wasn't even aware that he had this sword  you know how boys can be!
Were you in love with him?
I thought I was. I was confused.
And now?
Now, I know that I shall die if you leave me.
Do you expect me to believe that?
Yes.
And you, are you in love with any one else?
No.
But you have had mistresses while you were away.
Of course.
Were you in love with any of them?
No.
Were they pretty?
Yes.
Were any of them prettier than I am?
One had better legs.
Were any of them married?
Yes. They were the easiest. I made love to one of them within ten minutes of our first meeting.
She must have been in love with you.
Not in the least. After all, what is adultery  only a brief transaction on a couch, requiring a few minutes of privacy.
Promise me you will never leave me.
I cannot promise you that.
Promise me.
I will never forgive you.
I don't care, but promise you will never leave me.
I don't understand you.
Promise.
Promises mean nothing.
Perhaps  but tell me you promise, anyway.
All right  I promise.
You are my old friend.
Yes  what is it?
Open the door. It's me.
Go away  I'm busy.
I know what you're doing in there.
Don't be ridiculous and go away  I'm busy working.
Where is Madame Trillaud?
How should I know. Ask Roquier  he's cleaning her dress.
What are you doing in there?
Oh  now, this is absolutely ridiculous! If you don't want to be humiliated in front of your guests, you will return to the table at once.
Will you be joining us, soon?
I will be there in five minutes. Go back to your guests.
Five minutes.
Yes!!
Five minutes.
Goodbye.
Separate bedrooms?
Yes.
But you will not... be safe...
Not be safe? What on earth are you talking about?
In case of a... surprise attack... at night... I am such a... light sleeper... I could wake you... I could scream.
Who is it?
It's me.
I didn't mean the things that I said... I was angry and I said more than I meant to.
Oh, my darling. I'm sorry, too. I won't do that again  whatever you do. I won't cause you any more embarrassment, I promise.
Oh  I didn't tell you... I've seen Dr. Corvisart, and he was very reassuring and encouraging. He has had excellent results with the waters of Plombiers, and he thinks it would be a good idea for me to spend a few weeks there. Apparently, he sent Madame Le Floch there last year, and she gave birth to twins.
Indeed  well, you may tell Dr. Corvisart, I should be entirely satisfied with half her success.
Ah, my dear Madame de Montesquiou, you have no idea what happiness it brings me to see this child, at last. I was told the very idea of such a visit would too much distress the Empress.
I am delighted to be of service to you again, Your Highness. And I can tell you, my instructions came directly from the Emperor, with a caution to be discreet.
Oh... I see. I understand. How is... the Emperor?
I rarely see him, Your Highness, but I believe he is in excellent health, and he is very happy with the child.
Ah, that is good.
And, you seem in excellent health, Your Highness.
Ah, well, my dear Madame de Montesquiou, peace of mind can eventually be a substitute for happiness.
I would like both of you to read this. Please read it aloud.
To Citizen General Bonaparte from one who does not wish to see him dishonored by his wife. You should know, Citizen General, that your wife has taken a lover, one Captain Hippolyte Charles... undated and unsigned.
Naturally, one does not take much stock in such a piece of filth but, on the other hand, it is not the sort of thing one can simply ignore. What do you think, Joseph?
No...
Junot?
No... nothing at all.
Not even the slightest hint of something?
No  Captain Charles commanded the cavalry escort, and rode outside the carriage. In the evenings, he always ate at another table. They hardly ever spoke to each other.
You would tell me, Joseph, wouldn't you?
Yes, of course, I would. You know I am not one of your wife's greatest admirers, but I certainly know nothing about this.
And you, Junot?
The important thing is to find the right lawyer. One who will not protract the thing indefinitely, in the courts.
You know I am only too happy to be of help to you, but surely this isn't the ideal moment to involve yourself in such matters.
I know of no better time.
You can't be serious. It would not be good to become another husband out of a Moliere farce.
The comedy of my marriage is sufficiently well known already.
You must not act impetuously.
It is time to clarify the situation. Everything is over between us.
But you can do the same thing in six months. The next few weeks may be the most important ones in your life.
My mind is made up. She will not set foot in my house again. I think if I saw her again, I might be tempted to strangle her.
Are you sure that you are not still in love with her?
Are you trying to insult me?
Of course not, but such violence of feeling makes me wonder.
Well, you shall see.
When is she supposed to return?
I have no idea. Her maid said she left two days ago, to meet me  I can imagine where she is. But when she finally does come home, she will find her things in the street and my door locked.
She will probably appear with a dozen excuses and you will forgive her anyway.
My dear Joseph, the only thing that is clear is that my wife is a slut  and while a man may want a slut for his mistress, he does not want her for his wife.
Will you use the troops?
Only as a last resort. What are the Councils doing now?
Good evening, sir.
Good evening, Mademoiselle.
The weather is terrible, isn't it, sir?
Yes, it is. It must be one of the worst nights we have had this winter.
Yes, it must be.
You must be chilled to the bone, standing out of doors like this.
Yes, I am, sir.
Then what brings you out on such a night?
Well, one must do something to live, you know  and I have an elderly mother who depends on me.
Oh, I see... That must be a great burden.
One must take life as it comes  do you live in Lyon, sir?
No, I'm only here on leave. My regiment is at Valence.
Are you staying with a friend, sir?
No... I have a... room... at the Hotel de Perrin.
Is it a nice warm room, sir?
Well, it must be a good deal warmer than it is here on the street.
Would you like to take me there, so that we can get warm, sir?
Uhhh... yes, of course  if you would like to go... there... but... I have very little money.
Do you have three francs, sir?
Brrrr, these sheets are like ice.
Oh, I'm sorry about that.
What's your name?
Lisette.
Only Lisette?
Lisette La Croix.
That's a very nice name. Where are you from?
Please, sir, come into bed or I shall die of a chill.
Oh, yes... of course.
Ah, my dear Francis, what a genuine pleasure it is to meet you at last.
I fear our meeting is long overdue... Napoleon.
I'm sorry that I am unable to offer you better hospitality, but this is the only place I have inhabited for the past month.
You have made such excellent use of it; I should think you will hate to leave it.
Shall we move closer to the fire?
Yes  an excellent idea.
Will Alexander be joining us soon?
I very much doubt that he will.
Oh...?
I'm afraid he has been rather upset by the outcome of the battle.
I see.
But he asked me to say... on his behalf... that your achievements have increased his... admiration for you, and that he believes... your success is predestined by heaven... and that his army...
My dear Francis, you do seem extremely uncomfortable.
I'm afraid I am, just a bit.
Would you like some brandy?
Thank you.
I'll have the fire built up.
Thank you, Napoleon.
Francis, may I ask whether you wear warm winter underwear?
No  not as a rule.
Ah, well, that is the first rule of warfare. You must wear longsleeved and longlegged underwear. You can never conjure up brilliancies with a cold bottom.
Good morning, Citizen de Beauharnais.
Good morning, sir. Are you General Bonaparte?
I am, Citizen. Is your mother Madame Josephine de Beauharnais?
Yes, sir. Are you acquainted with her?
I have met her. What is your business with me?
I believe you issued an order that all citizens of Paris must hand over any weapons that they have in their possession.
That is correct.
This morning, a Lieutenant and three soldiers came to our house and asked if we had weapons. I explained we had only my late father's sword, which, in fact, was not a weapon but only a keepsake of memory.
A sword is a weapon whatever else you might wish to use it for.
I told the Lieutenant my late father was General Alexander de Beauharnais, and asked if there was any consideration that might be given to his memory.
And he sent you to me?
He said no one had the authority to rescind the order except you.
Does your mother know you have come?
No, sir.
Well, then, you have a lot of initiative, my young friend.
My father's sword means more to me than any other possession I have.
You realize, of course, that thousands of swords have been collected. How do you expect me to find yours?
Good heavens, Ambassador  what has happened?
Ah, good evening, my dear Duroc. I'm afraid I've been out hunting and I have had a rather bad fall.
Indeed you have, Ambassador. Have you sent for a doctor?
Yes, I have, and I hope you will forgive me, Duroc, but unless your visit is extremely urgent, I shall have to ask you to excuse me until tomorrow.
I beg your indulgence, Ambassador, but it is.
Oh?
The Emperor has decided to marry your Archduchess, MarieLouise.
What is that?
Earlier this afternoon, the Emperor refused the hand of the Grand Duchess Anna, of Russia, and, as I'm sure you can appreciate, he is quite able to change his mind again. For the Emperor, to choose a wife, is only a matter of minutes.
But this is not a matter which can be settled tonight, surely?
No one can say how the Emperor's thoughts work, Ambassador, and unless we move quickly, he might change his mind again.
But, my dear Duroc, how can I act without guidance from Vienna? I haven't the slightest idea of how the Emperor Francis might feel about this.
May I suggest that we can prepare and sign the agreement, between ourselves, subject to the approval of the two Emperors. Believe me, my dear friend, your Archduchess, MarieLouis, may very well hold, in her hands, the future of our two countries.
My God...! What time is it?
Four o'clock.
My God, what a fire!
When did it start?
The first reports came in at about ten.
Why didn't you wake me then?
At first, it hardly seemed more than a routine fire.
How did it spread so quickly?
It is the work of incendiaries.
I told Mortier that he would answer with his life for any looting.
Our troops have no part in this. It has been started by the Russians!
Impossible, I don't believe it.
We have already captured a dozen incendiaries, convicts, released just two days ago. They said they were acting under orders of the secret police.
But to start a fire like this in five hours  how is it possible? It would take a carefully organized plan, tons of combustibles and hundreds of people.
From what we can tell, there are hundreds of agents, all over the city. The combustibles seem to have been carefully placed beforehand, and all the fireengines have been removed from the city.
My God  this could be very bad for us... very bad, indeed.
Hello there, Picart.
Ah, Didier  you are alive.
Why are you carrying the dog?
His paws are frozen and he cannot walk.
When you eat him, may I have some?
My God  don't you recognize Mouton  our regimental dog? I would rather eat Cossack.
Yes, sir?
A glass of champagne, please.
Yes, sir. I hope you will excuse me for asking, General Bonaparte, but are you Corsican?
Yes, I am.
I thought so, I noticed your name when you were announced. I'm Corsican too  my name is Arena.
Oh  where do you come from?
Bastia  and you?
Ajaccio.
Have you been back recently?
I haven't been there for three years.
I haven't been back for ten years. Is your family still there?
No, they're living in Nice now.
That's a nice city. This is your first time here, isn't it?
Yes, as a matter of fact, it is.
You don't know many of Citizen Barras' friends, do you?
Ahhh, no.
I thought not. I noticed you by yourself, all night.
Just a minute, General. Listen, don't let them fool you with all their grand ladeda. They've all made their money from the war  mostly from crooked war contracts. They say Citizen Barras has put away millions.
I see...
I believe you are acquainted with my brother, Joseph Bonaparte, and my aide, Major Junot.
Yes, sir, I had the honor of meeting them on the trip from Paris.
Captain Charles, I believe you are one of General Le Clerc's aidesde camp.
Yes, sir, I am.
Was it he who assigned you to command the escort which accompanied Madame Bonaparte's coach?
Yes, sir.
Was the trip normal in every respect?
Yes, sir.
Did any difficulties of any kind arise during the trip?
No, sir, none at all.
Then, you have my thanks, Captain Charles, for safely escorting Madame Bonaparte to Milan, and you may consider your assignment completed.
Thank you, sir.
You will return to Paris tomorrow and you will carry my compliments and thanks to General Le Clerc for assigning such an excellent officer to carry out a responsibility which has meant so much to myself and to Madame Bonaparte.
Thank you, sir. I will do that.
You may go, Captain Charles.
Read it back.
To Joseph Bonaparte  Dear Joseph, I have been informed by my wife of the cold and spiteful treatment she has been receiving at the hands of my family, since my departure. I am also informed that you have refused to pay over to her any of the money I left with you expressly for this purpose. Must you, too, take this opportunity during my absence to indulge the petty jealousies of the Bonaparte family?
Oh, shit, that's not right.
General Bonaparte?
Come back in an hour.
Excuse me, General Bonaparte, but I believe this is an extremely urgent matter, requiring your immediate attention.
Come in.
This dispatch has just arrived from Aboukir, marked highest priority, for General Bonaparte's eyes only.
Let me see it.
Josephine dead  how unbelievable! How impossible it is to believe it. She was always physically so strong  she was never ill a day in her life.
It is a terrible shock.
But did she have the best doctors? Wasn't there any chance at all to save her?
I don't know, sire  she had the Tsar's personal physician.
She should have had Larrey or Corvisart. They might have saved her... But why didn't anyone even write to me? Can you believe that no one even bothered to write to me? Would you have believed that I should read such news in a newspaper? How incredible!
That is incredible.
Ah, my poor Josephine. She was the most alluring, most glamorous creature I have ever known  a woman in every sense of the word, and she had the kindest heart in the world. She may have been a liar and a spendthrift, but she had something that was irresistible  she was a women to her very fingertips... How impossible it is to believe that she is dead.
I have never heard an unkind word about her spoken.
I suppose I might blame her for opening her house to the men most responsible to my downfall, but how can I? She was on her own again, she had to look after her own affairs, and how can one blame her for having her head turned by the attention of Kings?
Who is there?
Bertrand, sire.
I have just had the most vivid... dream... about Josephine.
Yes, sire?
She was sitting there... and it was as if I had last seen her only the night before... She hadn't changed  she was still the same  still completely devoted to me... and she told me we were going to see each other again and, never again, leave each other... She has promised me. Did you see her?
No, sire... I was asleep.
I wanted to kiss her, but she didn't want to kiss me... She slipped away, the moment I wanted to take her in my arms.
Well, Belliard, what's this? What are you doing here? Where is the enemy?
They are at the gates of Paris, sire.
And where is the army?
It is on this road, sire, following me.
And who is defending Paris?
Paris is evacuated, sire. The enemy is to enter at nine o'clock tomorrow morning. The National Guard is on duty at the gates.
Paris has surrendered?! I don't believe it.
Unhappily, it is true, sire.
But where are my wife and son? What's become of them? Where is Marmont? Where is Mortier?
The Empress, your son and the whole court left two days ago for Rambouillet. Marshals Mortier and Marmont are probably still in Paris, completing the arrangements.
But, sire, Your Majesty would lay Paris open to being sacked. The enemy is outside the gates with more than 120,000 men. Besides this, I left the city under the terms of a treaty and I am forbidden to reenter Paris.
A treaty? Don't be ridiculous. What treaty is this? Who made it? Who has been giving orders?
I don't know the details of the treaty, sire, Marshal Mortier sent me word of its having been agreed to, and he said that I was to take the army and make for Fontainebleau.
But who made this treaty?
I believe it was arranged by Marshals Mortier and Marmont. I must explain to you that we have had no orders all day. Each marshal has been keeping his own position.
Who sent my wife and son out of Paris?
I don't know, sire.
And where is Joseph?
I don't know what has happened to Prince Joseph.
What cowardice! What treason! Joseph has ruined everything. How could they all lose their heads. They knew I was coming up fast. Victory was just within grasp. Come, come, turn your troops around, General Belliard.
Yes  who spoke up?
I did, sir.
Yes, Captain? Have you anything you wish to say?
Yes, with all due respect, I do Citizen Barras.
Please...
May I come to the map?
Ah, my dear friend, come in, come in. Please sit down.
I'm sorry, I was at the theater and I didn't receive your note until I returned to my hotel.
Thank you for coming. Would you care for a drink?
No, thank you.
I don't have to tell you of our latest difficulties.
Things are quite serious, I should say.
We expect an attack on the Convention tomorrow morning, at daybreak, and I have been placed in charge of its defense.
What do you have in mind?
To be perfectly honest, I haven't the vaguest idea.
Are you serious?
I don't even know whether a defense is possible.
What forces do you have at your disposal?
About 5,000 troops.
Cavalry?
The 21st Dragoons, about two or threehundred troopers.
Any cannon?
There are none here.
Where are they?
Well, I believe there are at least 30 guns at Sablons.
You could have them here by daybreak.
Is this enough to oppose 40,000 men?
Properly arranged, yes.
These are odds of 8 to 1.
The numbers are not particularly relevant. You are not up against soldiers  this is a mob, and they will run as soon as things become sufficiently unpleasant.
Would you be prepared to handle this for me?
Are you proposing to transfer command to me?
In every practical sense, yes, but, officially, of course, I would have to retain command.
Fair enough.
I must be honest with you. I first approached three generals more senior than yourself, and they all very prudently sent excuses.
I'm not insulted.
You realize what is at stake?
Our lives, the revolution, my career?
Look, let me be completely open with you, I have a carriage and an escort waiting for me, and I have a great deal of money outside of France. Unless we stand a very good chance of carrying this off, I am prepared to call it quits right now.
And, what a great pleasure it is, indeed, to meet you, Alexander.
And, what a delightful idea!
Ah  you approve?
I think it's absolutely charming.
I'm glad you like it.
Whatever suggested the idea to you?
I shall tell you in the strictest confidence  when I was a boy, I had a passion for rafts, and never had the opportunity to build one.
You can always tell at a glance whether retreating infantry are being pursed by cavalry, because they hurry along and keep turning around and looking back. When they are retreating before infantry, they merely trudge along, head down.
Fascinating! Tell me, leaving aside the question of grand strategy, for the moment, what would you say is the single most difficult tactical skill to master?
Without a doubt, to estimate the enemy's strength on the battlefield. This is something that is only acquired by experience and instinct. At Jena, there were as many opinions about strength of the enemy as there were generals present. Murat said there were 50,000, preparing to attack. Berthier said there were no more than 25,000, about to withdraw. "Berthier sees only what is in the open," Murat said. "But don't forget there is a second force hidden in the forest." And so it would always go, each of them would judge things according to his own ability, character and state of mind, at the moment.
Ah, my dear Napoleon, sometimes I feel that I am not really an Emperor as you are.
What do you mean?
I know absolutely nothing of war  and I am still totally dependent upon my generals.
I hope you will forgive me, Your Majesty, for requesting an audience at such a late hour, but I have traveled all the way from Moscow to see you, on a matter which cannot wait.
Very well, General, what is it you wish to say?
Your Majesty, I have been advised that you have received a letter from Napoleon, offering a peace treaty, and that you have decided to accept it.
I have decided to accept the principle of a negotiation; the terms are not established.
If I may, Your Majesty, I would like to offer a dissenting opinion.
General Kutusov, feel free to say whatever you like.
I believe I am right in saying that, before the fire, the country had grown weary of the war, and there were few who were interested in continuing the battle.
Proceed.
But, since the fire, a completely new spirit has been aroused in the nation. The French have become an army of criminals, against whom Russia must be avenged, against whom she is now prepared to fight to the death.
You know, General Kutusov, there is a very strong possibility that the fire was not started by Napoleon's troops but was organized under the orders of Rostopchin's secret police.
I have heard that story but I do not believe it.
Rostopchin is a fanatic and he is capable of anything  however, it doesn't affect what we are talking about. Please go on.
The point I was trying to make is that I think it is reasonable to say that Your Majesty would not find himself under unbearable pressure, if he decided to make peace with the Emperor, at least at this time.
For the sake of your argument, let us say that is correct.
Well, has Your Majesty considered what Napoleon's alternatives might be, if you simply chose to ignore his note?
Yes, General Kutusov, I daresay that this has been considered and discussed at great length. Napoleon would simply spend the winter in Moscow and continue the campaign in the spring. Another lesser possibility might be to march on St. Petersburg now, although there is some doubt that he has the strength to do this, until he refits his army.
You have my absolute assurance, Your Majesty, that Napoleon does not have the strength to attack St. Petersburg now  his army is exhausted and illsupplied, and he would be defeated if he attempted that.
I will accept your assurance, but I'm afraid I don't see your point.
Forgive me, Your Majesty, I am about to make it.
Ah, yes  proceed.
The point is that I don't think Napoleon will sit in Moscow until the spring! I don't think he can afford to.
Well, that is a very interesting idea, General Kutusov, but I can assure you that Napoleon is no beginner at this. Whatever analysis you have done on this situation, I am sure that he has gone over the same ground.
I have no doubt that he has, Your Majesty, but does he have any strong moves from which to choose?
Well, one thing immediately comes to mind, if what you are saying is true  he would merely withdraw his army from Moscow and return to Poland for the winter.
Your Majesty has grasped the outlines of his problem in much less time than it took me. This is a crucial point  and it is a political one, which Your Majesty will be in a far better position to answer than I. Can Napoleon afford to abandon Moscow without signing even the preliminaries of a peace treaty with you?
I must confess he would look a bit silly, fighting his way to Moscow and turning right around again.
Perhaps it would be even more serious than that, Your Majesty. His European confederation is held together by some very slender threads. Your Majesty knows even better than I that Austria and Prussia are very doubtful allies, and the Emperor has reason enough to fear that they will turn on him, at the first sign of weakness.
Proceed.
If I can presume to go into the Emperor's mind, I believe that he has based his entire campaign strategy on obtaining a peace treaty after the fall of Moscow. When Vienna fell, there was a peace treaty. When Berlin fell, another treaty. That has always been the rules of the game. But what is he to do now if no treaty is forth coming? He knows that beyond Moscow, there is nothing, and that, if he withdraws, there remains only a fall into emptiness.
What do you think Napoleon will do?
I, personally, am convinced that he will withdraw his army from Moscow, and attempt to establish himself in Poland for the winter. In the end, he will not allow himself to be cut off from Paris. But I believe that if he is offered any encouragement, by Your Majesty, he will postpone this decision as long as possible. He is a gambler and he will trust to his luck.
If he withdraws his army in good order, it will be a serious political defeat. But, if he should be caught on the move, with his army, in the full grip of winter, then it will be a catastrophe. If Your Majesty can prolong his hopes for a treaty by silence, be deceit, by any means, for another month, thus postponing his departure, then the graves of his army are already dug in the soil of Russia.
General Kutusov, I would like to call a meeting of my cabinet tomorrow morning and have you present this idea to them. I think it has merit and is worthy of consideration.
I am at your disposal, Your Majesty.
It is a thing entirely unknown in diplomacy, that one government should assume a right to dictate to another, who is upon terms of equality, the conditions on which she should conduct her commerce; and, assuming such a right, second it by threatening language, in case of noncompliance.
But, Your Majesty, the very substance of the Tilsit treaty was that you should join the Continental Blockade, boycott English goods, suspend all commercial dealings with her, and be France's ally. Nothing more is being asked than to comply with the treaty.
My dear Caulaincourt, agreements can endure only when they allow both sides to live. Napoleon may believe it is necessary to injure England but, before that, he must realize it is necessary for him to allow his friends to live. He cannot expect me to tell my nobles they must ruin themselves so that he can bring England to her knees  and I'm afraid that is what it has come to.
I can appreciate what Your Majesty is saying but the Emperor has staked everything on this policy. He has no other way to attack England, and no one knows more than Your Majesty how his overtures for peace have been rejected.
It's a fine thing to establish policies but, when they don't work, they must be reconsidered. Granted that you have hurt England, but she is still on her feet. And to seal off her trade with Europe, what has it cost you? You have had to rule with an iron hand. You have turned friends into enemies. And even at that, the result has only been partly effective. You have never been able to stop the extensive cheating, smuggling and corruption  even of your own officials. But I should think the situation in Spain, alone, would give your policy a minus balance. You have had to commit a quarter of a million of your best troops against the guerrillas, with no victory in sight. And you have given England a dangerous foothold on the Continent, for her armies.
I am in no position to debate this with you, Your Majesty, but can you imagine what a blow it will be to the Emperor if you should now desert his cause? It would mean nothing less than victory for England.
My dear Caulaincourt, you have no idea of how compromised my own position has become since Tilsit. I am blamed by the army for the military disaster at Austerlitz and Friedland, by the nobility for ruining their trade with England, by the merchants who must accept French foods at unprofitable prices, and by the nation for allowing Napoleon to dictate Russian policy.
Your Majesty knows my affection for him is deep and genuine, and goes far beyond my official role as Ambassador. But I would be remiss in my feelings for you, and in my responsibility to the Emperor, if I did not say that it is entirely possible that the Emperor will view your refutation of the terms of the Treaty of Tilsit, as the first step in the exchange of a French alliance for an English one  with all the dangers that might entail.
I have given a great deal of thought to that possibility, and I am prepared to face it. If it should come to war, and I presume that is what you are alluding to, I would rather have war with the Emperor than my own people.
Oh, who gives a damn who he is? I can't take this anymore. Night after night we're on the streets, busting our humps  and for what?
We take the licks and he gets the chicks.
How long do you have to chase a dream before you realize it's not gonna happen?
Hi.
And Mister Furious... His anger is his power.
She likes you.
Definitely.
Ask her out.
This is bad.
Who are they?
The Disco Boys.
We may be getting in over our heads here.
This looks like a job for Superman 
Or Batman 
Or both.
Don't crunch the leaves.
Sorry.
Be a Mohican.
Be a Mohican.
Shut up.
Do we have to?
I got this cousin. He's a real doofus, but he claims he can become invisible.
And there's the Sphinx.
The who?
He's a legendary masked Mexican crime fighting superwrestler and master of the machete.
And a social life.
Yeah, but how do we get to them?
To us!
Whatever our name is.
Are you sure he's still lives here?
Are you sure he's still alive?
But, Doc... where's the machine guns?
The bazookas?
Twenty years ago all the major hoodlums of this city were united into one great brotherhood of evil, and Casanova was their king.
Crime was rampant. It wasn't safe to stay in your home.
He busted Casanova and sent the crooks packing.
And this has been a pretty nice place to live ever since.
Maybe it's time we checked that place out.
But how do we get in?
That was too close.
But we gotta find out what's going on in there.
We're outnumbered twenty to one.
It's suicide.
Oh no.
Great timing!
It's time.
With or without him, we gotta go!
We've got lift off!
May the forks be with us!
Where am I going?
Through there!
Right.
Jeffrey!
Oh hi, Mom.
What are you doing in the silver drawer?
Looking for... the TV Guide.
It's on the television.
Of course. I'm such a fool... Thanks, Mummy.
Jeffrey, YOU THIEF!
Mother... it's not what you think!
And why are you wearing that silly costume?
Because... I'M A SUPERHERO!
Oh, Mother, I'm sorry. I know how much you wanted me to be a doctor or a lawyer with a family  but it's just not who I am!
But... the silverware?
I use it... to fight evil.
Jeffrey... this is wonderful.
It is?
I always knew that you were special.
You did?
Ever since you were a little boy... Come with me.
You guys going to a costume party?
We're superheroes.
Really? Like Captain Amazing?
Are you famous?
Not yet.
So you're like... struggling superheroes?
We prefer to think of ourselves as unsung... I am the Blue Raja, Master of Silverware...
Wow.
And these are my associates, the Shoveler.
Really?
Usually a superpower is a magical endowment or a great skill. In his case, it's entirely emotional.
So what can I get you?
Burgers all around. Medium. Rare. Raw.
Here you go.
Ow.
Maybe you guys ought to forget this Superhero stuff and join Kiwanis or something.
But... only when no one is looking.
Yes.
So you're only invisible... to yourself?
No.
So you're only invisible, when absolutely no one is looking at you?
Yes.
The Obliterators!
The Eradicators!
Firepower costs money.
Anybody got any?
Yes, Obiewan.
Hey... he's gone.
He doesn't miss a trick, does he?
What a jerk  and like nobody knows who he really is!
He's Lance Hunt! Just take off the glasses  and it's him!
There's a vague similarity.
A vague similarity? IT'S THE SAME GUY!
We need a break, that's all! Nobody'd ever heard of him until he busted Casanova Frankenstein!
But look at him... and look at us.
Why do they always fill stuff these things so full you can't pull 'em out without ripping 'em!
I lost another fork tonight. She's getting suspicious, I know it.
So why don't you just tell her!
I can't.
Why not?
Because I can't! Okay? She wouldn't understand!
Nah.
Roy, when was the last time you had an actual date?
What does it matter? Women just want to control you  and talk about their feelings. They want to know why you're angry all the time  and what can they can do to help  so you tell them there's nothing  nothing  just leave me alone  but they bug you and they bug you and they bug you  until you just can't stand it anymore!  so you finally open up  you pop like a blister  and it all comes spewing out  all your emotions  your feelings  your fears  all of it! And then they dump you.
So you're chicken?
Who's chicken?
Maybe you should try a more romantic approach.
Like what? Cutting off my own ear?
Or flowers.
See ya tomorrow.
I saw him go in  and he didn't come out!
But we don't know for sure it's the same guy.
Let's go.
Wait!... Look!
The who?
The most vicious gang of thugs this city ever produced. Twenty years ago they were Casanova's personal bodyguard. But after he was busted they crawled into the woodwork.
Well they've crawled back out.
I'm soaked. Oh great.
Shhh.
Maybe she's right.
Are you serious? This is the break we've been waiting for!
Agents?
Archenemies! Casanova isn't just a criminal  he's a supervillain. Stopping him could be our ticket to fame, fortune  and babes!
But there's only three of us, and he's got the entire brotherhood of evil at his disposal.
Then maybe it's time for us to form our own brotherhood... a brotherhood of righteous, crime fighting, skull cracking, Disco Boy bashing, warriors of the night!
Sounds good.
No one's sure that he actually exists, but they say he can be contacted by leaving a message on a crumpled up napkin at the Tacky Taco down by the bus station.
Maybe there was traffic.
Who are we kidding? No one's gonna show. We're living in a fantasy!
Roy, remember, it is all within your power. The only thing that's in your way... is you.
Oh shut up.
Roy 
Go dance with your mother, Jeffrey!
So where's the art?
He hasn't stolen it yet.
What's that?
Come on.
He's turned into a completely normal person!
Normal. What's normal? Does normal exist? And if it did, how would we know it?
Oh don't start that again 
LOOK!
Leave him alone. She's his mother, not yours.
We had an off night, that's all.
So when are we gonna have an on night?
What are you talking about?
What have the famous superheroes got that we don't?
And it would be the right thing to do.
Yeah yeah  and that, too.
I'm liking this.
I say we send out the word  and summon all of the unsung superheroes we know!
Have you ever seen him?
How could I see him if he's invisible?
Good point.
You sure that's how you spell it?
Yeah.
There's just not enough of us.
But we know they're out there. Hundreds  maybe thousands of lonely, unknown superheroes, who desperately need a cause...
There's a big difference.
I used to believe that. Now I'm not so sure.
You know something? Those guys are really starting TO PISS ME OFF!
But there's still only six of us.
SO WHAT?
So what else has Superman got?
He's got the fact that he's Superman!
This place is built like a fortress.
Because that's what it is.
GET MAD!
But I just don't feel it.
Your Spiderman Pez dispenser!
Okay, you win. I'm pissed off. I'm seriously peeved.
But she still might call!
Are you coming or not?
I'll drive.
Not a chance!
Cover me!
With what?
You're the Sphinx.
And you are a fool.
But now Casanova's back! And we're gonna sit around here all night eating pizza and telling stories! Hey, lets toast some marshmellows!
The wise snake coils before he strikes.
And a skunk stinks!
You drink too much.
When are you going to take off that mask?
When I am sure I am among friends.
Your rage is a very great power, but it blinds you to your heart.
My heart died a long time ago.
It is not dead. It is hiding.
Blow it out your bean hole, Pancho!... And to hell with the rest of you!... Look at you. Bunch of rejects. I didn't need you before  and I don't need you now! The great ones RIDE ALONE! Adios, muchachos!
Maybe. But this isn't about living or dying. It's about good versus evil, and we're good, whether we like it or not... Maybe we look a little funny...
And smell a little funny. We're not bulletproof and we can't fly. But we're superheroes  and that means doing what's right  even when it's impossible... This is our city  these are our friends, our families  and if we don't save them, nobody will! So I say we take a ride up that hill, blast our way in there, destroy that Psychowhatchamabob  and teach those deviants a lesson they'll never forget!
Now you're talking.
We're all the same really. Our songs, our dreams, our seeds are all just a brave attempt to live forever.
He is in love. His anger is gone.
So, let me get this straight. You have the power to become invisible.
Yes.
If someone looks at you, you immediately become visible again.
Yes.
So how do you know that you've ever been invisible?
I just know.
Look, kid, we've got a lot of heroes to interview 
I know I haven't got it entirely worked out yet, but I've always dreamed of becoming a superhero... Weren't you guys ever a kid? Didn't you ever need someone to just give you a chance?
Come on, guys  we're fighting against evil.
Good or evil, what's the difference?
Doesn't it piss you off the way the when you really want to talk to somebody you can't think of anything to say!
I guess... Are you always so angry?
Only when I'm awake... You busy after work?
Or talk?
Not tonight.
Hi.
Alone tonight?
Every night.
Monica... I was wondering if  uh  maybe we  I mean you and I  could  uh  you know  get a  I mean have a...
Date?
Yeah.
I get off work in fifteen minutes. Walk me home?
Sure.
That was easy.
I admire you.
Why?
Being a superhero, wanting to save the world. It's so... unselfish.
It is?
Most people just want to make money or be famous or something. But you risk everything, just to help people.
I wouldn't mind being famous.
Who wouldn't?
I've never been able to figure out what to do with my life, which is why I guess I'm still a waitress.
Nothing wrong with being a waitress.
What's your real name?
Roy.
Have you always lived here?
Me too... I love this stupid old town. It's noisy. It's smelly. It's falling apart.
It's home.
Yeah.
I've thought of leaving, going to Chicago or New York, but...
What have they got that we ain't got?
Champion's going to bounce back, and I want to be here when it does.
Me, too.
You don't seem very angry right now.
You know what? Underneath all that anger I think there's just a little boy who wants everyone to love him.
I just want to be a superhero.
That's what I mean... 'Night, Roy.
It's me.
Monica, where are you?
At the Frankenstein Center.
Are you nuts? Get out of there!
I'm going inside.
What are you talking about?
Listen, Casanova may be a supervillain, but he's got a weakness, and I'm it. Maybe  just maybe  I can trick him into showing me the location of the whatchamathing.
He's a psycho! He'll kill you!
Just shut up and listen. Hold off the attack as long as you can. If I can discover the location I'll call you 
And what if you get killed?
Then at least I will have died trying, right?
Roy... We might never see each other again, so I'd better tell you now... I think you're wonderful.
What?
Bye.
Monica!
I hope you won't take this the wrong way, but I couldn't help but notice... that you're a dead ringer for Veronica Lake in "The Blue Dahlia".
Really?
Are you an actress?
Just a waitress.
You underestimate yourself.
You know I'm writing a play  it's just a little Broadway thing, but there's a part in it that I think you'd be perfect for.
Really?
I'd love to hear you read it. Could you stick around after the luncheon?
Sure  I guess.
Terrific.
Hi.
I thought you'd chickened out on me.
Just wanted to... powder my nose.
How 'bout giving me "the tour"?
Why not?
Who's the artist?
Me.
Come here.
I'm not that kind of girl.
Then why are you here?
Curiosity.
Remember the cat.
I'd better go.
You're a spy.
What?
I saw him walk you home.
Who?
Roy.
Stay away!
Or you'll what? CAN ME?
What did you do with Captain Amazing?
Captain who?
I'll let you in on a little secret, Roy. In two days this entire city will belong to me, and there's not a damn thing your little pals can do about it. It's the perfect time to switch teams... So what do you say?
You're nuts.
They always call the great ones nuts.
And the nuts always call themselves great.
Are you with me... or against me?
Against.
Too bad. PLUG HIM!
Thanks for reminding me which team I'm on.
You're dead.
So are you!
And the light goes out...
Frankenstein!
Let me guess... Bullets don't hurt you.
They hurt... BUT THEY DON'T STOP ME!
I hope you enjoy these cigars. I had to kill a dozen Cubans to get them.
Ummm.
Have you considered my offer?
You know, Mr. F, me and the boys always loved workin' for you. You had such style: the clothes, the dancin', the elegant way you'd snuff a babe. You were the King...
But times have changed, and you been in that bug house a long tine. I can see you still got the style, but I dunno for sure you still got the edge.
I got it.
What about Captain Amazing?
Superheroes.
Should I kill them?
Why bother?
That boy's got talent.
And I'm gonna nip it in the bud.
Yes!
Doctor Heller?
Yes!
It's me... Elizabeth.
Elizabeth! Little Elizabeth! Why you're so... middle aged!
Thanks.
How's your dad?
He's dead.
Oh that's right  they squished him... Heck of a guy.
Doc, these are my friends. We're superheroes, and we need your help.
Well, I give to the United Way, and I feel that sort of covers 
Snap out of it!
Get on to yourself!
He'll never make it.
Think positive.
Hey... Can I buy you a beer?
I thought you'd never ask.
That's two more than the Fantastic Four.
Half a Dirty Dozen!
Casanova said that in two days the entire city would belong to him... and there wasn't a thing that we could do about it.
What did he mean?
I dunno.
Mon Captain, it's for you.
Hello?
Hey... you okay?
Sure.
Eat your mustard.
It doesn't matter what we call ourselves. We know who we are.
Who are you?
I'm the Bowler.
And you can't count Horst Buckholtz anyway.
He was cute though.
But they all had one thing we haven't got.
How about... the Savage Six?
The Inscrutable Six?
But she's your mother. You gotta tell her.
I can't.
I'm her only son, and she always had such high hopes for me. Medicine. Law.
But you're a superhero.
The cape. The turban. She wouldn't understand.
I know... My girlfriends all dumped me after I put on the mask. They thought I'd lost it.
But in fact... you'd found it.
It's late. I'm headin' home.
Me, too.
Come on, Junior, it's a school night.
No one will believe us.
They'll think we're just a bunch of weirdoes.
Sounds good to me.
Let's do it.
But that place is huge and we don't know where this psycho thing is 
Or even what it looks like.
The Bowler? I remember him from when I was a kid. He was killed years ago.
I'm his daughter.
Look, honey, being a superhero... it's a guy thing.
Really?
And then one day, he didn't come home. The police said it was an accident. But cargo containers don't just fall on people. He was murdered... After that I fell apart. I dropped out of school, became a mud wrestler, married and divorced a jerk. When my mother died I hit bottom... but then, when I was cleaning out her attic, I found my father's old bowling bag and costume, almost like he'd left them there for me... and I knew what I had to do.
So who killed him?
The Disco Boys.
We didn't think this through very well.
My father had this friend... He was an inventor...
He was the last time I saw him.
When was that?
I was eight.
Much less go outside.
Then Captain Amazing appeared.
We could really use some coffee 
And some sandwiches 
Come on, baby!
Do it, big boy!
Atta, girl!
Atta, boy!
Hey, do I look like a Man?
Well we can't call ourselves the Mystery People.
Everything's going exactly as we planned.
Not quite. You haven't announced our engagement yet.
It must have slipped my mind.
Your mind is so slippery.
Don't worry, Pootchkie. My womanizing days are over. You're my Lady Macbeth, my Imelda... my Nicole. We're such an incredible team. Who could possibly stop us?
Where are you going?
Head hunting.
What are you doing all alone in the dark?
Fantasizing... about you.
I thought you were done?
One last tweak.
Our guests are waiting.
I'll be down in a jiffy.
You two timing psychotic bastard.
Darling, you've got the wrong idea.
Do I?
I was only strangling her... I've killed hundreds of women. It doesn't mean a thing. Pootchkie, you're overreacting. This is our night. It's what we've lied for... cheated for... murdered for. She's just a plaything, a trifle... You're the only woman who's ever meant anything to me. I adore you. I worship you. I want to make you my bride.
I knew you'd come. I left that skylight open for you.
I know you did.
I knew you'd know.
I know you knew I'd know.
But did you know I knew you'd know I'd know?
Of course.
The jig is up, Casanova. I've spent six months watching you, and know exactly what you're up to.
Really?
I know that you're recruiting your old henchmen...
And I know the terrible revenge that you plan to inflict on this city.
I guess you know just about everything, don't you, Lance?
Umhmm.
Except for one little thing.
And what's that?
That I've hot wired the city's entire power supply through that catwalk.
What ?
She's my sister, actually.
Yeah? Well,... I'm sure she's not a total loss.
Hey,... don't I know you?
Um, well, you see...
Sit down, O'Connell, sit down, we could use another good player.
I only gamble with my life, never my money.
I can't believe the price of these fleabags.
We coulda had 'em for free, all we had to do was give 'em your sister.
Yes, awfully tempting, wasn't it?
Awfully.
That thing gives me the creeps.
Be nice. That thing saved my life.
You're welcome to my share of the spider webs.
And it stinks to high heaven in here.
None taken.
We'll sneak up and steal that book right out from under them.
And you're sure you can find the secret compartment?
Lemme get this straight, they stuck a sharp, red hot poker up your nose, cut your brain into small pieces, then ripped it all out through your nostrils?
OWCH! That's really got to hurt.
Whoever's in here, sure wasn't getting out.
No kiddin', without a key, it'll take us a month to crack this thing,
Tough break.
Yes, I'm all tears, now let's see who's inside, shall we?
Where's my gun?
What are you going to do? Shoot him?
If he decides to wake up, hell yes!
You did not!?... We're not!?
Rat gizzards. They smell bad and taste worse, but that's the best the desert has to offer.
He certainly was not a popular fellow when they planted him.
Must of got a little too frisky with the Pharaoh's daughter.
Did you see that!? Grasshoppers! Billions of grasshoppers!
That's one of the plagues, right? The grasshopper plague!
Who's here!?
The guy! The Priest! THE MUMMY!
That looked rather painful.
Ya know, ever since I met you, my luck has been for crap.
Yes, I know, I do that to people.
Damnit! That's two down and only two to go.
And then he'll be coming after Evy.
Believe it, sister. That's what brought our buddy back to life.
And now he's going to use it to bring his girlfriend back
What?
What?
We gotta get her back.
I'm with you, old man. No one touches my sister like that and gets away with it.
Okay, now what the hell does this Horus guy look like?
He's a big fellow with pointy ears and a face like a falcon.
Got it.
Do something, Jonathan! Kill it!
You have got to be joking?
You...! YOU...!
Drunkard? Fool? Ratbastard? Please call me something original.
Have you no respect for the dead?
Right now, I only wish to join them.
Well I wish you'd do it sooner rather than later, before you ruin my career the way you've ruined yours.
My dear, sweet, baby sister, I'll have you know, that at this moment my career is on a high note.
Oh yes I do! I have something right here!
Oh no, not another worthless trinket, Jonathan, if I bring one more piece of junk to the Curator to try and sell for you.
Jonathan?
Yes?
I think you found something.
Two questions. Who the hell is Seti the First? And was he rich?
He was the last Pharaoh of the Old Kingdom, said to be the wealthiest Pharaoh of them all.
Alright, good, that's good. I like this fellow, like him very much.
Yes. The City of The Dead. Where the early Pharaohs were said to have hidden the wealth of Egypt.
Right, right, in a big underground treasure chamber. Everybody knows the story. The entire necropolis was rigged to sink into the sand. On Pharaoh's command, a flick of the switch! And the whole place could disappear beneath the dunes.
All we know is that the city mysteriously vanished around 2,134 B.C.
You told me you found it on a dig down in Thebes!
I was mistaken.
You lied to me!
I lie to everybody, what makes you so special?
I'm your sister.
That just makes you more gullible.
You stole it from a drunk at the local Casbah?!
Picked his pocket, actually.
But he's just a filthy criminal?
Way to go, Evy.
Do you really think he'll show up?
Undoubtedly, I know the breed, he may be a cowboy, but his word is his word.
Personally, I think he's filthy, rude and a complete scoundrel. I don't like him one bit.
Ah, begging your pardon, but shouldn't we be going?
After all, you rode us night and day to win that bet.
According to my calculations, we should be right under the statue. We'll come up right between his legs. Oh my.
And when those dirty Yanks go to sleep  No offense.
It's called mummification. You're dead when they do this
Still...
What do you suppose killed him?
Did you ever see him eat?
I can't believe I allowed the two of you to get me drunk.
Don't blame me, I don't even remember being there.
Well neither do I, thank you.
Juicy?
Yes. He's more than four thousand years old and still decomposing.
I found it, Evy! I found it
Shutup and get me off of here!
What do I do, Evy!? What do I do!?
Read the inscription on the cover!
Finish the inscription, idiot!
Oh.
Ummm, Hootash im... Hootash im now what is this last symbol here?
What's it look like!?
Ah! Ah! Ahmenophus!
Yes,... I see.
So who's the broad?
Broad?!
We uh,... found... your puzzle box, and we've come to ask you about it.
No.
No?
No... You came to ask me about Hamunaptra.
How do you know the box pertains to Hamunaptra?
Because that's where I found it. I was there.
You were actually at Hamunaptra?
I just decked your brother
Yes, well... I know my brother.
Yeah, I was there.
You swear?
Every damn day.
No, I mean 
 I know what you mean. I was there, alright. Seti's place. The City Of The Dead.
What did you find? What did you see?
I found sand. I saw death.
Could you tell me how to get there? The exact location?
Want to know?
Yes.
Really want to know?
Give... give him... give him GLAAAA !
Twentyfive percent, and not one single farthing more.
Sorry, didn't mean to scare ya.
The only thing that scares me, Mister O'Connell, are your manners.
Still angry that I kissed ya, huh?
If you call that a kiss.
Did I miss something? Are we going into battle?
The last time I was at that place everybody I was with died.
There's something out there, you know, something under that sand.
Yes, I'm hoping to find a certain artifact, a book, actually, my brother thinks there's treasure. What do you think is out there?
Evil. The Tuaregs and the Bedouin believe that Hamunaptra is cursed, they call it, "the doorway to hell."
Ahmar is Ossirion. "Passageway to the underworld", actually.
I don't believe in fairy tales and hokum, Mister O'Connell, but I do believe that one of the most famous books in history is buried out there, The Book Of The Living. It's what first interested me in Egypt as a child. It's why I came here, sort of a life's pursuit.
And the fact that they say it's made out of pure gold, makes no nevermind to you, right?
You know your history.
I know my treasure.
Relax! I'm the map! It's all up here.
Oh that's comforting.
Can you swim?
Well of course I can swim, if the occasion calls for it.
Trust me.
We're almost there.
Are you sure?
For what?
We're about to be shown the way.
That "thing" gets me excited.
The things that get you excited.
According to Bembridge Scholars, inside the statue of Anubis was a secret compartment, perhaps containing The Book Of The Living.
What are those mirrors for?
Ancient Egyptian trick. You'll see.
Oh my god, It's a preparation room.
Preparation for what?
For entering the afterlife.
Yeah, that'd bring you back to life.
You two are worse than a couple of schoolboys.
Oh my god,... it looks like, it looks like a sarcophagus.
Why would they bury somebody in the ceiling?
They didn't, they buried him at the foot of Anubis. He was either someone of great importance. Or he did something very naughty.
There's some sort of lock here. You say these thing's are made of granite with a steel interior?
Quarried granite with a cobalt lining.
A key! That's it! That's what he was talking about.
Who was talking about what?
Seems the Americans had a little misadventure of their own today, three of their diggers were killed.
How?
Salt acid. Pressurized salt acid. Some sort of ancient boobytrap.
You two!
You don't believe in curses, huh?
No. I believe if I can see it and I can touch it, then it's real. That's what I believe.
Unlike your brother, Miss, you I don't get. You're a whole new brew.
I know, you're wondering, what's a place like me doing in a girl like this?
Something like that.
Egypt is in my blood. My father was a famous explorer, he loved Egypt so much that he married an Egyptian. My mother! Who was quite an adventurer herself
Okay, I get your father, I get your mother and I get your brother, but what are you doing here?
I may not be an explorer, or an adventurer, or a treasure hunter, or a gunfighter! Mister O'Connell But I'm proud of what I am.
And what is that?
I'm going to kiss you, Mister O'Connell.
No you're not.
I'm not?
Not unless you call me Rick.
Why would I do that?
Because that's my name.
No... Why?... Should I?
Gee, yeah, you told me it was the best time you ever had.
Oh my god, I've dreamed about this ever since I was a little girl.
You dream about dead guys?
Is he supposed to look like that?
No. I've never seen a mummy look like this. He's, he's still...
Are you saying somebody threw these things in with our guy, and they slowly ate him alive?
Very slowly.
According to my readings, our friend suffered the HOMDAI, the worst of all ancient Egyptian curses, one reserved for only the most evil blasphemers. In all of my research, I've never read of this curse actually having been performed.
That bad huh?
Yes, they never used it because they feared it so. It's written, that if a victim of the HOMDAI should ever arise, he would bring with him the ten plagues of Egypt.
The ten plagues?... You mean all ten plagues.
You sure you outta be playin, around with that?
It's just a book, no harm ever came from a book.
Having an encounter with a four thousand year old walkingtalking corpse tends to convert one.
Forget it, we're out the door down the hall and gone.
No, we are not.
No we are not. We woke him up, and we must try and stop him.
We?! What we?! You didn't read that book. I told you not to play around with that thing.
Alright then, Me, I,... I read the book, I woke him up and I intend to stop him.
Then we'll have to find some immortal ones.
There goes that belief again. Not me, I am outta here!
According to that Book, once this creature has been reborn, his curse will spread, and as he grows in strength, so will his curse grow, infecting the people until the whole of the earth is destroyed.
Yeah? So? Is that my problem?
It's everybody's problem!
Look lady, I appreciate you saving my life and all, but when I signed on, I agreed to take you out there and bring you back, and I did, now were even, end of job, end of story, contract terminated.
That's what I am to you? A contract?
You can either tag along with me, or you can stay here and play around with Mister Maggot.
I'm staying.
FINE.
He's here! I saw him! That thing is here!
The creature!? Are you sure!?
You called me your girl?
What?... Oh yeah, that was just um, you know, figure a speech.
I think you were jealous
Jealous? You kiddin' me? Did you see that guy's face?
Got it!
Got what?
Don't do it, Evelyn.
I have no choice.
Got guts, lady.
Yes, I know, and I'd like to keep them.
And what is he in prison for?
I did not know, so when I heard you were coming, I asked him that myself.
And what did he say?
He said... he was just looking for a good time.
Where are they taking him?
To be hanged.
No women allowed.
I am an English woman.
I will give you one hundred pounds to spare his life.
I would pay one hundred pounds just to see him hang.
Two hundred pounds.
Proceed!
Three hundred pounds!
You lie.
I would never!
Are you saying this filthy godless son of a pig knows where to find The City Of The Dead? Truly?
Yes and if you cut him down, we will give you ten percent.
Fifty percent.
Twenty.
Forty.
A bright good morning to all.
What are you doing here?
I have come to protect my investment, thank you very much.
Do you realize, we are standing inside a room that no one has entered in over four thousand years.
Who cares? I don't see no treasure.
See! That proves it! Old Seti's fortune's gotta be under this sand!
For them to protect it like this, you just know there's got to be treasure down there.
I wouldn't trade ya for a brass spittoon!
Yeah! It's supposed to be made outta pure gold!
The sun turning black.
Water turning to blood.
You bastards!
What did you do to him!?
The hell with that! I'm not goin' nowhere! We're safe here.
Yeah, I'm not leavin, this fort for nothin'.
The hell with this. I'm goin, downstairs to get me a drink. You want somethin'?
Yeah, get me a glass of bourbon, a shot of bourbon and a bourbon chaser.
I'm willin, to go on a little faith, here.
You will not believe it.
Try me.
Okay, let's cut to the chase. He's afraid of cats, what's that about?
According to the ancients, cat's are the guardians at the gates of the underworld. Imhotep will fear them until he is fully regenerated, and then he will fear nothing.
So your sayin', if we find the book made outta gold 
 And read the sacred incantations contained inside it.
You think it'll send this guy back to hell?
Correct, And that's when 
Which would be located not far to the east of the Anubis statue.
Don't tell me we gotta go back out there?
If we want to kill the creature, yes.
She is like all the others. She will die in the desert.
No! She has seen too much. She knows too much.
The key!? She has the lost key!?
Yes. No one has ever had so much, been so close. We must stop her, or it will be the end of us all.
Then we will kill her, we will kill her and all those with her.
And burn the map and retrieve the key.
It will be done. But what of the American expedition? They leave tomorrow as well.
Forget the bumbling Americans, they will be like all the others. Without the map to guide them, how can they possibly find Hamunaptra?
I'm sorry, it was an accident.
When Ramesses destroyed Syria, it was an accident. You are a catastrophe! Why do I put up with you?
You put up with me, because I can read and write ancient Egyptian, decipher hieroglyphs and hieratic, and I'm the only person within a thousand miles who knows how to properly code and catalogue this library.
Who needs smart women? I put up with you because your mother and father were our finest patrons, Allah rest their souls. Now straighten up this mess!
See the cartouche there, it's the official royal seal of Seti the First, I'm sure of it.
Perhaps.
Miss Carnavon. Gentlemen.
What is he doing here?
Do you truly wish to know? Or would you prefer to just shoot us?
And you think this justifies killing innocent people!?
To have stopped this creature? Yes!
In the necropolis, when I saw him,  alive,... walking, he called me Anck sunamun. And then in Mister Burns' quarters he tried to kiss me.
It is because it was you who read from the Book. He has chosen you to be the human sacrifice needed to regenerate the body of Ancksunamun.
I'm thinking that if the black Book Of The Dead can bring people back to life 
 then perhaps, the golden Book Of The Living can return them to the underworld.
Exactly 
Like what that Moses guy did to that Pharaoh guy?
That's one way of putting it.
What just happened?
All I remember is him turning into a blast of sand,... and then I remember nothing.
Yeah?
Oh yes, always.
...and how do you say? Those slimy things, in your stomach?
Intestines.
Yeah! Them.
Personally, I would like to surrender. Why can we not just surrender?
Shutup and gimme your bandolier.
Now go find me a big stick.
In the desert? What for?
How'd a guy like you end up in the Legion anyways?
I got caught robbing a synagogue. Lots of good stuff in them holy places; churches, temples, mosques, and who's guarding them?
Altar boys?
Exactly! I speak seven languages, including Hebrew, so my specialty was synagogues. How about you? Kill somebody?
What then? Robbery? Extortion? Kidnapping!
None of the above, thank you.
Then what the hell are you doing here!?
My very good friend! What a surprise.
Why if it ain't my little buddy, Beni. I oughta kill you.
You never were any good with the ladies, O'Connell.
So you're the one leading the Americans, I shoulda figured. So what's the scam? You get 'em out in the middle of the desert then leave 'em to rot?
Unfortunately no, these Americans are smart, they pay me only half now, half when I get them back to Cairo, so I must go all the way.
The girl saved my life, figured it was the least I could do, keep her out of trouble.
You always did have more balls than brains.
Let's make us even, shall we?
Even?
O'Connell! I am going to kill you for this!
Sounds familiar.
Hey O'Connell! Looks to me like I got all the horses!
Hey Beni! Looks to me like your on the wrong side of the river!
Ten to one, O'Connell, your odds are nosogood.
I've had worse.
Goin' somewhere?
Just looking for you, O'Connell! I wanted to be with my friend!
C'mon, friend.
Why do you like to fight so much?
'Cause I look good doin, it.
Beni ya little stinkweed, where did you slink off to?
You left me! You left me in the desert to rot.
Oh yeah,... sorry bout that. So who's this guy?
This is Prince Imhotep, High Priest of Osiris.
Oh, hey, how ya doin'?
The Prince does not like to be touched by other humans. A Silly eastern superstition, I'm afraid.
Yeah, well, we all got our little problems today don't we?
He has come to help Mister Burns. Somehow I feel responsible.
Don't gimme that, you never had any scruples.
Do you know where I can steal some?
Where's your new friend?
What friend? You're my only friend.
Then you got no excuse for living. What the hell you doin, being buddies with this creep, Beni? What's in it for you?
It is better to be the right hand of the Devil,... than in his path. As long as I serve him, I am immune.
Immune from what?
You shall see.
What are you looking for? Lie, and I'll slit your throat.
The book! The black book they found at Hamunaptra! Imhotep wants it back. Said to me it would be worth it's weight in diamonds.
What does he want the book for?
Something about bringing his dead girlyfriend back to life. He needs the book... And your sister.
We saved him! Saved him before the creature could finish his work. Now leave, all of you, quickly, before he finishes you all.
You're not going to kill us?
And what ritual would that be?
The ritual to bring the body of Anck sunamun back to life.
And how does one do that?
By reading the Book Of The Dead.
Oh yes, of course.
And then killing your sister.
Excuse me?
If he arrives before us, it will be too late.
Did you say 'kill' my sister?
I told you to leave or die, you refused, and now you may have killed us all. For you have unleashed the creature that we have feared for more than four thousand years.
Relax, I got him.
No mortal weapons can kill this creature. He is not of this world.
Are we talkin, about the same creature? The walking corpse? Really big mouth? Really bad breath?
You know where he's taking her?
Yes. To Hamunaptra. To perform the ritual.
Who the hell are these guys?
Priests. Imhotep's priests.
I never killed a priest before.
They are evil, cursed, they matter not.
Well, okay then.
Forgive me, please. What a gracious thought. We must do that.
When?
Why don't I call you when I've got my calendar in front of me?
It's possible. I don't know about that.
I suppose your extended training was at an institution in that area?
Lots of institutions. My graduate advisor believed we should experience as many environments as possible  prisons, clinics, halfway houses. For a while I was chief therapist in a shopping mall. Had a little spot next to the yogurt place.
I trained in the east, myself  Cornell  and I don't care what anyone says, there really are regional differences. I found the state certification exams out here quite harrowing... Did you?
Oh, yeah, very tough. But I guess that's good... to keep out the quacks.
Which examiner did you have? I probably know him.
Wallace Franklin... from Greensburg.
That was a terrible thing.
I don't even know why hanggliding is considered a legitimate sport.
Yes... your particular approach.
I don't have one really. Most of the time I'm faking it. See, I think there's not much that can be done about most problems... they're too complicated, too deeprooted by the time I hear about them. The most I can do, usually, is look and listen real closely, try to catch some glimpse of the secret life everybody's got. If I can get a sense of that, well then, maybe... just maybe, I can help them out a little.
You're Doc Mumford. Skip Skipperton.
How are you?
Fine. Okay. Pretty good. I've been hoping we'd meet. I've heard a lot about you.
..."Find the need and fill it" my dad used to say  I guess a lot of dads say that  but I did and it just took off.
No kidding... Panda. Where'd that come from?
Panda? I've always liked giant pandas... I've been to China and seen them in the wild. That's the kind of thing I can do if I want... now. I can do pretty much anything I want to do these days.
Would you like another beer?
Nah... scotch.
Far out. Single malt? Can I pick it?
Can I ask you a personal question?
Of course! That's exactly what I want.
Have you thought about getting a wife?
I gotta pee. Can I ask you something? This town is called Mumford... Been that way since... 18... 180... 180... ...thirteen! Right? Now here's the question  Your name is Mumford, too.
Is that the question?
You moved here from back East and your name is the same as this town. Is that right? Far out.
I hope you don't think I want you to do this for free. Just because we're gonna play it like we're friends, doesn't mean I won't pay you like a doctor.
I understand.
I have a lot of money. Do you know how much money I've got?
Don't tell me, 'cause I'm not going to tell you what I've got.
I've got three big ones.
I'm impressed. I couldn't make three million dollars if I lived three lifetimes.
No, no... I have three billion dollars.
This is great!
This is exactly what I wanted.
Skip, you must have lots of people you can throw a ball with.
You'd be surprised. Most guys have kids or wives or girlfriends. They're busy. It's not as easy as you think.
Skip, you're the head of the whole deal here. Are they busier than you?
Well, you know... that's the thing. Like I said, just about everybody in town works for me. And it's just not the same asking someone to throw a ball when they work for you. It's like an order or something... And no one  no one  asks me.
So, would you say we're out here... let me think how to put this... Is your problem really that you're... lonely?
Don't you like this?
Hell yes, I like it. What's better than this? Most guys would kill just to have someone do this with them whenever they like.
Okay then. Have you got a lot of friends?
Lily and I talk a bit. You know Lily, runs the coffee shop?
No... I've seen her. Goodlooking woman.
She's probably ten years older than you.
Goodlooking woman.
Lives downstairs from me. She's got a great dog named for Danny Ainge.
Really? I'm the only person I know that likes Danny Ainge, outside of Celtic fans. Maybe Phoenix.
Well, there's Lily.
Did you know that Danny Ainge was drafted by the Blue Jays? Do you know what kind of athlete you have to be to play in the NBA and in the bigs?
Amazing.
Unbelievable... ...And Lily named her dog after him? Far out.
What kind of person do you have to be to do this?
What?
This 
So I guess Henry Follett is a patient of yours. He's my pharmacist.
Yeah. Guy's got some serious sex fantasies.
Pretty good, too. Lots of detail. Nothing hard core. Oldfashioned ones, from back when people cared about atmosphere and character.
Uhhuh.
Problem is, his fantasy life's a lot better than his real one. Nothing can live up to it. His wife got sick of it and left him. Took his kids with her.
I wondered what happened to her...
Hey, Skip.
Doc. I know we're not supposed to get together till Wednesday...
That's all right. What's on your mind?
How many sessions have we had now, Doc? Six. And it's been good... like we were two buddies hanging out. Just shootin' the shit.
Yep.
I want to tell you something, Doc, but before I do, I need to ask you a question... Because, for me to tell you this thing  well, I haven't told anybody about this. It's the biggest secret I've got.
Sometimes it's best to keep a few things just for ourselves.
You're a shrink, Doc. Aren't I supposed to be able to tell you everything?
It's just a thought.
Hey, maybe that's all right! I don't know all that much about psychology or therapy or... ethics, so maybe there's something I missed... or something...
You're concerned that maybe I can't be trusted with a secret.
I trust you. Definitely. No question. But, yeah, I'm a little concerned. I mean, you're not supposed to tell anyone about your patients' problems... are you?
Yeah, well... what I was gonna tell you 
 Skip. Knowing what you do about me 
Doc, I trust you! You've listened to me better than anybody... maybe ever. And this secret I've got, I can't stand it anymore. I don't know if I'm some kind of 
All right, I'm just gonna tell you, as simple and direct as I can. And you understand that this is a big secret? Just between us? Okay. You know I've got this gift for certain kinds of... machines.
You are Panda, monarch of modems.
That's right. And you also know that even though I make 23% of the modems in the world... I cannot make one simple connection with any woman who could truly love me.
Okay... let's say that, for now.
It's true, believe me. So... do you know what I've been doing, all alone, in my workshop, for almost two years?... Mr. FindtheNeedandFill It. How I spend my every solitary hour?
Guess. Go ahead, guess!
Jerking off?
No!... Although that's a good guess. No, what I've been working on, what the world really needs and no one has been able to create   a virtually lifelike, humanoid, genderspecific, anatomically functional... sexual surrogate slash companion.
Slash what?
Sexual surrogate... slash... companion.
A doll?
No, Doc, not a doll. I am Panda. I'm talking about much, much more than a doll. The world has never seen what I'm talking about... except maybe in the movies.
How's it coming?
You don't think I'm insane?
And that's your secret? You meant  like a trade secret?
No, Doc, a private secret! It's perverted, it's pitiful. What am I  Dr. Frankenstein? Aren't you repulsed?
Sounds like kind of a good idea.
Really?
Definitely.
Skip, that's not much of a secret.
It's not?
Oh, it's okay. It's just not something to be ashamed of. Maybe you don't want people knowing  and believe me, it's safe with me  but on the scale of dirty little secrets, I'd give it, say... a two.
Who else knows?
Just you.
It's time you did some talkin', Dr. Mum  Wait a minute. That is your name, isn't it?
Damn! What is your name?
Doesn't matter. You can call me Doc.
It matters to me.
I've told you a lot of private stuff.
I can tell you anything else.
What about everything? How did this happen?
But there was one job that looked like it might be fun  Investigator.
Are you telling me your last job before becoming a psychologist was 
 an investigator for the Internal Revenue Service?
Everybody has a story, Skip.
Sounds like you have several.
What it felt like was... a series of separate, unconnected lives  hillbilly kid, wrecked college boy, garbage man, civil service guy... ...et cetera... et cetera. Every time I'd leave a life, it felt good. Whatever problems I was having were suddenly gone. I had no friends and I didn't talk to my family. The only constant, stabilizing force in my life was... drugs.
An IRS investigator with a drug problem?
It wasn't the best situation.
Did you carry a gun?
Didn't need one. We didn't even need a warrant for most of the shit we did. Man, the IRS... we could go in your bank account, your credit cards... hell, we used to go into doctors' files and get all the juicy details. Nobody wants to argue with the IRS.
Of course, him being insane didn't make it all right that I fell in love with his wife.
Holy shit!
"Get to know your therapist."
You were messed up, man.
But look at me now...
Hey, you've done good. Look at yourself... you've cleaned up, you've got a career 
At least you pulled yourself out...
Things got a lot worse.
You and Candy...?
And the drugs?
Harder than I thought. Took me three tries. But I was highly motivated  figured there was no point in leaving me and taking that along. After two bombouts, I found a place in the desert...
Somebody's taking a shower down there.
That'd be Lily.
I wish I could live in the shower. I'd take five a day if I had the time. I went to this spa in Germany, a sanitarium practically, up on this mountain. And the great thing  they just kept you wet all day.
Who'd you go with? That's not good.
How'd you do it? The new you.
You know how easy it is. A kid can manage it if he wants a fake I.D. You can do practically the whole deal at your local Kinko's. The only variable is how much pride you take in the product.
I know it starts with a birth certificate...
All new people start with that...
What about it?
"Mumford"... I mean, why pick the name of the town you were going to?
Oh. You got it backwards. I already had the name when I started looking for somewhere to settle. When I saw this town on a map, I thought maybe it was a sign. See...
And a birth certificate is enough?
Everything flows from that, and what doesn't... can be easily purchased.
But you studied psychology, right? You did the training and just never got the degree?
No... no training.
Psych major?
English Lit.
Jeez, man. But you're good at it!
I understand what it's like to want to leave a problem behind. That's all most people are looking to do. Mainly, I listen.
Where ya going? I've got a million questions.
See you Thursday... regular time.
I've never brought anyone down here before.
I'm honored.
Doc, there's something about what you told me the other night I can't get out of my head. It's driving me batty  Why me? How did you know you could trust me?
You're completely reliable.
Skip, I've got a problem and I need some advice.
You want my advice? Far out!
Pretty creepy, huh? Are you totally disgusted?
Skip, you're a visionary. That can be a burden.
This doesn't seem a little... perverse?
There are a lot of lonely people in the world. Somebody's gonna figure this out someday.
It's not going to be me. I'm giving it up.
Really?
It's all your fault. In the last 48 hours, I've completely lost interest.
What'd I do?
Lily.
Lily... ...Skip, that's great! You and Lily.
Oh, she doesn't know about it yet. Right now, of the two of us, I'm the only one in love. But I'm very stoked.
Sorry...
Wow.
I'm here for you, Doc.
Skip, you know that it's improper  completely unethical  for a licensed psychologist to carry on a romantic relationship with one of his patients?
I guess that makes sense.
Yes, yes it does...
Doc!... It's not me, is it?
What?
Hmm. I guess that doesn't help... I see where you're going here. It's a mess.
Yep.
...so he already had the tattoo that said, "Naomi Forever"... and now they're broken up, see, and he has to have it removed. But while the scar is still healing, or whatever you call it when you have a tattoo removed, he meets Chandra. And it's serious, immediate love. So in no time, he's gone from the most gorgeous model in the world to the most gorgeous actress in North America.
What do you mean, "in no time"?
In maybe three or four issues.
Weekly or monthly?
Monthly! God, how shallow do you think Brad is? Why do I waste my time telling you this stuff?
Why do you think you tell me, Nessa?
Don't do that thing... ...that shrink thing.
It's a big part of the show.
The school board doesn't pay you? What kind of deal is that?
It's called pro bono.
Pro boner? Pro bono, huh? For whose good, supposedly?
It's my bit for the community.
Fuck the community. There was this article my friends and I read. It was "25 Signs He's Great in Bed". It was very fascinating.
Where was this?
Where?... The New York Times. The first one was  "he handles produce well." Which we already knew! The point is, you have a lot of the signs.
You been spying on me in the supermarket, Nessa?
Have women found you attractive?
I knew you wouldn't answer. I've been thinking about what you said last time. How me trying to lose weight  and constantly not  is like a lot of people with addictions. How maybe I can't lose the weight, ever... Which we already knew...
That's not quite what I said 
It's a really weird thing for a shrink to say... and then you said maybe people'd be happier if they'd accept that some things don't change  that it'd be some kind of a relief or something...
Isn't she amazing? That is such a wicked look.
What do you want me to see?
Just chill for a second. Look at this guy, it appears he's actually dead... but gorgeous.
What are you doing? We're not done. I just need to find the thing...
If you don't want to have a session today, it's okay.
I want to have the session. I thought it would be cool if I could show you some of the things that interest me. But I guess you're not into it... which we already knew.
What happened today?
What are you talking about?
Was it something that happened at school?
These appointments were not my idea, remember.
True. Should we stop them?
I don't think you know what you're talking about.
Uhhuh.
This shrink school you went to... did you hear about it on an infomercial?
There's this kid at school... Martin Brockett. He has some gigantic idea of himself that no one else shares. You wouldn't believe the crap he lays on me... Who appointed him my spiritual leader? If he has everything so figured out how come his best friend is a .22 rifle? And why's he spend all his time chasing after me? Probably thinks I'm gonna give him a hummer...
Do you think that's what he wants?
No. I don't know what he wants. But I know I don't like being watched. Nobody's ever paid any attention to what I did, and I liked it just fine. Where does he get off telling me I disrespect myself? Fuck him. Look in a mirror, bozo.
...I mean, Doc, the dude is seriously deluded. I said that to him, I said, "If you think I'm gonna do all that shit for you, man, you are seriously deluded."
What'd he say?
He said  "Which we already knew!"
What did he want you to do?
First off, he tells me to stop smoking cigarettes. I told him absofuckin' lutely no. As you can see 
...What balls on this guy? What're we... ...going steady? Jesus.
No again?
I said I'd consider it. Nobody owns me. And the last thing was insane. I don't know what's wrong with him... No magazines.
Really?
I don't know if I can quit. We're gonna try it together, like, you know, AA or something. And I made him give up his .22. No more sneaking around the hills with his fucking nut gun like some loony tune.
He agreed?
He's pitiful, Doc, a goddam puppy. I don't know how much longer I can put up with it. I already got two arms and legs, I don't need another appendage.
Feel free to lie down. Most people do.
I'd better not, I'll fall right to sleep. I think it's too soon for me to be sleeping with you.
What can you tell me about this?
Oh, lord. It's almost too exhausting to tell you... ...about my exhaustion. I didn't really want to come. I'm not hopeful right now. But I couldn't take the look on my dad's face. He's a truly kind person, which is pretty extraordinary if you knew the story. He's the opposite of me, I guess  all stamina and resolve.
When did you start to feel this way?
About six months ago, I guess it is now. God, it seems like years. What a bore! I'm embarrassed by it. Before this happened  when I'd hear people talk about this kind of thing  I thought it was a bunch of bullshit.
What?
You think that now! You think it's a bunch of hooey, don't you?
No.
I saw it. I saw it in your eyes.
That's okay. Maybe it is. My mother always says  "Everything that's wrong with you is in your head." I suppose that's true.
Back when this started, was there anything unusual happening in your life? A change of job, of living situation... a loss of some kind?
No... but it started one year to the day after my divorce became final. That's not too suspicious, is it?... But it wasn't like I was feeling bad about the divorce. Just the opposite.
Hmm.
Hmm? Is that a professional opinion?
Hmm, as in  that's interesting. Sometimes, with enough clues, it's possible to figure these things out.
Even if you don't think it's real?
I don't know what's real and what isn't. That's never been my strong suit. But if you're tired all the time and you've had to give up the life you were having and come back home when you didn't want to... that's worth trying to fix. Maybe I can help you do that.
What would you do?
We... we would try several things. But I need to see you a lot.
I don't know. I barely made it today.
I'll come to you. We'll try a little walking.
We'll take it slow. You'll never feel you can't handle it.
I don't think I can afford it. I don't want my dad paying.
We'll work it out.
You have the best answer for everything. You seem so... hopeful. Are you always this sunny?
No one ever thought so. You must bring it out.
Is it contagious? 'Cause everyone agrees my immune system's way down.
Maybe you'll catch it.
Can I ask you something? Didn't you tell my dad you didn't think it was a good idea to come to the patient? So what changed?
I'm not making any promises.
We'll turn back anytime you want.
Oh boy... this should be interesting.
Mom's such a cutie.
People usually have to get to know me before they hate me.
She's not in a bad mood. She's like that all the time. It doesn't bother me anymore. It's my dad and my brother I worry about.
Maybe... but you're the one whose ass is dragging.
Is that the technical description of what I've got?
Is she against you getting help?
We don't discuss it.
Something's bothering her.
Oh, we've all disappointed her. Me, especially, but Dad, of course. She thinks my brother's all right, but she didn't expect much. It's what happens when you "marry beneath yourself"...
Please... forgive me.
What?
Negative thinking makes everything more difficult. If you're going to have enough strength to do this, we have to talk only about positive things. All right?
Okay then... Are you positive your mother's a bitch? Just kidding.
You've got a funny idea of funny.
I've offended you!
No.
Really? What would it take?
Is this the treatment?
Sorry... I'm done.
'Cause I'll tell you, none of the others have tried this approach.
I'm embarrassed. The list is so long.
Be specific.
Well... I'm tired all the time, obviously. I always feel like taking a nap. But when I try to sleep, I have trouble. My muscles ache. And my joints. I feel like an old person, or like I did back when I used to work out too hard... What else?...
Sore throat?
Uhhuh.
Painful lymph glands? Forget fulness... irritability... depression?
Yes, yes, and definitely yes. Also... I get confused.
Yeah, most people have that. It's confusing here.
Where?
Life.
I don't know if I mentioned the headaches.
Did you get headaches before this? But you get more now? Or more severe?
No, not really. They're about the same. My marriage was one long headache.
So the headaches may not even be a part of this?
I can give myself a headache instantly.
Is that like a party trick?
All I have to do is have two conflicting thoughts at the same time... Like I'll think  'Taking these walks is going to help Sofie get better.' But then I'll also think  'Mumford, you just enjoy taking these walks and you're kidding yourself about the benefits.'
There... I've given myself a real whopper.
You actually address yourself by name in your thoughts? So you really think having two opposing ideas in your head does some kind of damage?
Sometimes, yeah... pulling in two different directions at once. It makes tiny little tears in our fabric.
Well then, my life has been some kind of huge rip.
You're doing great.
I don't know if I'm going to make it the whole way.
It doesn't matter. Go on.
Oh... this makes me sound irrational, which is probably right, but there was something about him saying this  it was maybe the millionth time he'd told me about some preference of his. Well, I was so... tired of it. Seems like my whole life someone's been telling me... I'm just not getting it right. Can we rest for a second?
You're purposely making me talk while we do this... ...because you think this is good for me... ...and you're a sadistic bastard...
Yes.
...who thinks there's nothing really wrong with me.
Oh, there's something wrong with you, all right. Especially after hearing that dream of yours, about the RotoRooter.
That was really bad, wasn't it?
Disgusting.
And I'll bet you can interpret the whole thing
It's pretty obvious to a trained professional.
Is that when you split up?
No, that'd be a good story, but that was just the beginning of the end. We went on for another year or so.
So whose route is this?
Brady Peck's. Fourteen years old. Lives next door.
And he's where?
In the capitol for Boy's Nation. Five days. Why?
I'm thinking a gal could make a good living doing this. How hard could it be squeezing out some fourteen year old?
You like it?
It's all right.
Then you can expect me at 5:30 tomorrow morning.
And this is legitimate therapy?
Therapy? Hell no, I just don't want to do it alone.
When I was in high school we used to come up here and make out. I liked to sit on the rock and watch the sun go down.
That's what I like.
Which thing?
Either one.
Why'd you come to the house the other night?
I thought I had something to tell you. But it turned out I didn't.
My brother said you were about to fire me.
That's one way to put it.
I bet I know what changed your mind... ...My mother. She was so horrible, you decided you couldn't desert me.
I thought only action movies had villains like that.
 you've been a tremendous help to me.
Yeah?
I can't tell you how much I admire you. You have a wonderful way with people. And you're very insightful. I feel like you've seen me clearly... I never used to admit what a horrible person my mother was. You've made that possible for me.
That's... good?
Yes! And my exhusband  he never accepted me for who I was, just like Mother. The things you've said have helped me understand what a dick he is.
I don't know if 
You're shockingly honest, that's what makes you great. I've never had a man treat me this way. With you, I feel really... listened to. Can I tell you something? It's a little embarrassing, but I feel very unguarded with you.
Of course.
Thanks to this therapy, I now know what I'm looking for. I need to find a man like you. Not one who's treating me, of course. And I'm going to do it, dammit! You've given me the confidence.
I need to talk to you... Doctor. Can I come in?
Of course.
It might've been more appropriate if we had followed a traditional approach to the doctorpatient relationship.
Is something wrong, Sofie?
Yes, something's very wrong, Dr. Mumford.
You're upset.
How intuitive! That must take years of training right there. Maybe you can guess what has upset me.
Is it something you've heard about me?
No, it is not something I've heard about you! It is someth Why? Is there something I should have heard about you?
Why don't you tell me what's on your mind?
All right... I'm going to come right out and say this, because that's what your shrink is for, right, so you can tell him what's bothering you?
Umhuh.
First of all, I have been feeling much better lately. I don't know if the syndrome is over  if it's just run its course or something  but I feel a hundred per cent better than when I first came to you.
I'm glad.
Given that, I'm obviously not going to be judging things in the most realistic way.
I don't follow you.
I'm saying that since I'm doing so much better  which I attribute to you  I'm liable to misinterpret some of my feelings.
Okay...
The point is this  I am not a blank page. I did not just fall off the turnip truck. Do you know what I mean?
I think so.
I know a little about psychology. I took three different courses in college. It's true, none of them were above the two hundred level, but I took them... And there was one concept I remember very well.
What was that?
Transference!
Transference.
Yes, and that is what I have got right now. I have taken my feelings of gratitude... and relief... and transferred them onto... you. I have taken all those warm, grateful emotions and confused them with feelings for you... So that now I am under the delusion... ...that I am in love with you.
Hello?
Hello.
I think you can understand why I have some serious questions about your methods. I mean, obviously it becomes much more likely that I'm going to have confusion about this when your idea of treatment is to go walking in the woods and up to make outsville and do all these highly romantic activities 
Mother...
What do you think I'm after, Mrs. Cook?
I guess you saw the show...?
Which show was that?
Sofie...
Part of it. We were watching "ER" until someone called.
You probably got the idea.
...How violated I feel?
You're not the only one...
You feel violated?
Not me... all my other my patients. I smelled tar and feathers on the way over here.
You deserve it.
I am irate!
But...
But nothing... I'm mad as hell. This is a terrible thing you've done.
I know it! Please believe me, I know that...
But, there is one... mitigating factor I want you to consider before you write me off.
What?
Will you think about it?
I don't know. Depends. I'm in a bad mood.
I love you. More than I've ever loved anyone or anything in my life.
Oh.
I want to spend the rest of my life with you... but I'm not sure you feel the same way.
...but first, you have to tell me something...
Anything... just ask.
What is your name?
You got off easy.
Will you wait for me?
We're only talking about six weeks.
Will you be here?
Of course... I haven't got the energy to get out of town that fast.
Ph.D., psychologist.
Oh... not a real doctor.
That's right, the fake kind.
What'd you want?
There's something I think we need to talk about.
What?
Finally, some common sense...
What do you mean?
I think you know what I mean.
No, I really don't.
I think you do.
Why don't you tell me?
Why don't you go to hell? It's all a bunch of nonsense and you know it.
Well... you see, the problem is 
 the problem is you're a big fake. You haven't got a clue what's wrong with that girl.
Wow. You're something.
Take a hike, Dr. Quack!
Well, look who's here...
Good evening, Mrs. Cook.
Just who is here, can you tell me?
Could I see Sofie, please?
No, you can not. I wouldn't know who to say is calling.
Sofie. It's so obvious... you're after my daughter.
Well, I gotta say, Mrs. Cook, you're right about that.
Hello, Mother. I want you to meet Dr. Mumford.
Mumford... like the town?
What's happening here?
We're going for a walk.
Do you think that's a good idea?
Dr. Mumford does, yes. I've put myself completely in his hands. For today, anyway.
What kind of doctor are you?
It'll never happen! You're in big trouble, mister.
Mother... go away!
But you know how to drive?
Sure.
Got a license? But no car?
Don't need it.
I just got my license two weeks ago.
You're good.
I been drivin' since I was twelve.
That would explain it.
Can you help Mom?
I'm trying.
Got to.
What's wrong with her?
Is she a friend of yours?
No... sort of. Man, she could be cool, but all she does is get wrecked and do all the guys. She's blowin' them in the parking lot.
Hiya, Doc.
Martin.
Did you straighten her out?
How are you?
Insane! Didn't ja hear? My family got five hundred times better. Let's go, Vanessa.
 you can sit up and look at me if you'd like   maybe it would be helpful if you told me a little about what brought you here.
Kind of impatient for a bigtime headshrinker, aren't you? How 'bout you let me explain it my own way...
...but it's not really my school  and this is very interesting  it's the school from the next district 
 Go on!
 you crazy? You can't do this!
Sure I can, Lionel.
I'm a criminal lawyer  you think I like my clients? I can't stand most of them! But I don't kick them out...
See that sign  We retain the right to refuse service to anyone. I'm not going to charge you for this session, but I don't want to see you back here.
Don't you at least have a back door I can use?
Come out this way. There's no shame in getting a little therapy... is there, Althea?
Maybe some of us don't need this crap!
And it's the Hubble Telescope, not the Himball Telescope.
Hello, Lionel.
You've got to have the right ladder for the job. You don't know what you're doing, you can get yourself in trouble.
You're right, as usual. See you.
It's a country club. Don't worry about it.
Thanks for your help, Lionel.
You're early... it's not ready. What happened?
My patient had to leave early.
Who was that?
Does the phrase "nosy" have any meaning to you, Lily?
I think it's like... inquisitive.
It was Henry Follett.
Man, you see him a lot. And it's very wrong to reveal it. Next you'll be saying what his problem is.
What do you want to know?
You're terrible. I'm never telling you anything.
How long you been in this town?
Oh, I don't know...
Four months, two and a half weeks  that's how long. And you've already got more patients than those other two shrinks combined.
Lily, I don't think even you could know that 
You know who that is, don't you? You really don't? That's Skip Skipperton, man. He gets himself hit by a truck, this whole town shuts down.
Oh, so that's him? The Panda Man.
So, what makes you so popular? What's your secret?
You like me. How come?
Not sure. Let me think about it.
How ya doin', Ainge? Evenin', Lily.
Doc. Ainge...
Do we run into the street? No, I didn't think so. Nice car. How's that place?
It's a pretty piece of land.
And the Brocketts?
Horror show. What'd you do tonight?
It was insane here, man. 'Hadda call in the National Guard. Then I did my laundry... watched 20/20.
...And?
Shocking. Did you know the government is wasteful? You heard it here first. Oh, and being a supermodel... it's no walk in the park.
Why do you watch?
No gentleman caller, Doc. Not that I care. I've had it with men. They're so fascinated by their own crap. Took me four years to get the last one out. Almost turned me into a dyke... These days my idea of a hot date is a long shower by myself before bed. Now that feels good. And you don't have to do all that... listening.
They come through a few times each year. Hello, Mrs. Saito, good to see you again! It's a tour.
Where am I supposed to eat?
You're on your own today, honey.
Lily, I want you to meet Skip. Skip, Lily.
It's a pleasure to meet you.
...so rich?
...so accomplished.
Doc...
Lily.
Doc.
I don't want you to be mad at Skip...
He told you.
Skip and I wouldn't have got together if it weren't for you. That's a big deal.
You would have met in some shower eventually...
I want to give you something. Will you let me?
Thanks, Lily, I don't need anything.
Yes, you do, you damn well do.
Okay.
Here it is, some advice  do the hard thing.
That's it? That's what you're giving me?
Clean up the mess. No matter what it takes.
What it might take is... doing time.
Too bad. That's tough, I mean it. I'm not unsympathetic. But Skip says you're in love.
Yeah... me you, too... I was at your house...
Oh?
Upstairs, with Doc... Yeah, it's very nice... I heard your shower.
I've seen you going by on your board, but I didn't realize  you're so young... to be so...
What?
So, is this like a Japanese restaurant?
I'd better get in there.
That's a lot of people all at once.
It's okay. They preorder. There's a choice of three entrees.
What are they?
Meat loaf, turkey quesadillas, or salad nicoise.
Salad nicoise? I love salad nicoise.
You do?
Yeah.
Well, come on in.
Clarence Norman White, do you understand how serious are the crimes with which you have been charged?
I do.
Do you realize how insidious it is to invade the most private thoughts and secret lives of unsuspecting people?...
...People who have come to you with the faith that you know what you're doing... and that you are who you say you are?
Yes, your honor.
It means absolutely nothing to me that so many of your patients have come forward with praise for you and your therapeutic skills. You understand that?
Yes.
Mr. White, I am frustrated that the criminal code in this state allows a maximum sentence of only six months and a maximum fine of only $2000.
I'm sorry, your honor.
What?
I'm sorry you're frustrated.
Are you disrespecting this court, Mr. White?
No, sir. I was empathizing. Sorry.
Maybe you can empathize with this  Maximum fine. Three months in jail, three months house arrest. Sentence to begin immediately at the Orchard Valley Correctional Facility. Case closed. This court is adjourned.
You must be Dr. Mumford of Mumford. Jeremy Brockett.
Doc. Nice to meet you.
Sorry I'm late... traffic was a motherfucker. Have another drink, I'll be back in five.
I think you'll like this. Know much about Cuban cigars?
Nope.
Are you a man who likes to treat himself right?
I've had my moments.
I am. And I'm not ashamed of it. Nobody ever said on their death bed  "I treated myself too well."
I thought it was  Nobody ever said, "I should have spent more time at the office."
Fill in the blank. I don't mind the office. The point is, you only go 'round once. Like the Zens say  Be here now.
What do you do?
Althea hasn't told you?
We've been talking about her, mostly.
Well, in '85 four of us left our firms and formed an investment banking venture. We've got twentythree people working there now.
You've done well.
We've done... very well. You know anything about addiction, Doc?
A little.
Well, I'm addicted to winning. I say when you're in the red zone, you gotta score. So what do you think?
Tastes good.
No... I mean about Althea. About her... ...behavior. Do you think you can fix her up?
What do you think's wrong with her?
She's gone weird is what's wrong with her. Out of control. Probably from living out here in Mayberry.
You're the doctor, what do you think?
She seems very unhappy.
I didn't see you there. Can I help you?
My name's Gilroy. I'm from the State Certification Board.
It's all right, it won't bite you. Under civil code 1294.67b you are entitled to be notified that your status and certification are being reviewed. This is the notice.
Do you want to come in?
No thanks. Plenty of time for that when we're a little further along.
Mr. Gilroy 
What brought this on?
I'm not at liberty to say. Sometimes it's just routine, sometimes there's been a complaint. We'll be in touch.
I have eighteen more minutes!
I don't want to hear any more today.
Why not?
Mr. Follett, do you trust me or don't you?
Well, I don't know... I only been seeing you 
Without trust, there's no point to any of this. You might as well not come.
Now hold on, I didn't say I didn't want to come 
Good, then go.
Or maybe it wasn't an accident at all 
Mr. Follett.
 'cause in that instant I saw the beginning of a vixen's smile and I knew 
Henry!
What?
Stop now.
Why? I'm paying for this.
Not for this. Not me, you're not.
You find it distasteful, don't you?
It doesn't matter how I feel about it. It's how you feel about it that matters.
I enjoy it. Does that make me some kind of pervert? Just because a man has a rich imaginative life 
You didn't come to me because you have a rich imagination.
No?
You came because it's taking over. You're in its grip.
I never said that.
Where's your wife, Henry?
Go to hell.
I didn't hear you.
We got divorced. I had to get rid of her. She couldn't satisfy me.
What?!
I was... never satisfied.
Now we're back on track.
What's that?
You are so mean.
What is it?
It's a thought I had.
Should I open it now?
Let me just say something here... I have no idea if this is going to help.
What exactly is it supposed to do?
You remember when I asked you about pornography 
 I find it degrading. Maximum gynecology and minimum turnon 
 and you told me that. Still, there's some kind of imagery that's haunting you and, I think, getting in your way 
 Which I don't necessarily agree.
But you did come to me.
My guess is these images were burned into your brain when you were young. Maybe if we could nail down the exact fantasies that are haunting you  maybe you could get past them... Anyway, I thought we could try an experiment.
And the experiment is in here?
Whoa, whoa, what are you doing? I want to know what's in here.
There's absolutely no reason to think this is going to have any impact on you. I'm embarrassed to have 
Uh, sorry, I'm going to have to... ...I really appreciate what you're trying to... uh, I can't thank you enough for...
My pleasure.
I feel like we're making real progress here.
Me too, Doc. And I can't tell you what that package meant to me 
Dr. Delbanco. It's nice to see you again.
I don't think you know Dr. Sheeler. She's the other therapist here in town.
Of course... I've heard great things about you.
What are you doing for lunch?
Right now?
I've run on. Forgive me. We're here to talk about you.
Are we?
My mentor was an amazing teacher named Benton Mandlebaum. Died quite tragically in the collapse of a gazebo.
I think I've heard of him... a disciple of Rothberg, wasn't he?
Interesting approach. What was his name?
Dorothy Fowler. Fantastic woman. She passed last year in a train wreck. Damned Amtrak.
We're interested in any new therapies. How would you characterize your approach?
My approach?
...I won't go into that today. Though, if we should continue these sessions, as I certainly hope we will, there are some aspects of that I would like to look at. God knows, I've listened to enough people giving me the juicy  ...At any rate, I just wanted to acknowledge the catalyzing effect your comment had on me. I just hope that it doesn't come roiling back upon you like some dreadful undertow.
How do you mean?
Well... you see, when I broke it off with Phyllis, she was naturally upset and she became more determined than ever to pursue certain  how to put it  doubts she's been harboring...
What kind of doubts?
About you... your background and your qualifications. I'm afraid Phyllis somehow got you mixed up in her fury with me, and actually took the whole issue to the state board.
I see.
And please, for whatever small way I may have encouraged this, accept my apologies. There is good news, though.
What's that?
Phyllis has decided to leave town and pursue her practice in the city. Which leaves you the only psychologist in town.
Dr. Sheeler is leaving Mumford? I'm sorry to hear that.
As you can imagine, my own feelings about this are mixed... Unlike, I must say, those of my wife.
What an asshole!
Ernest, what do you think?
I think he's got a point.
Thank you.
You never got back to me. ...I called to say we'd like to take you out for a meal?... Kind of a professional welcome.
What Ernest means, I think, is we're very interested in other methodology... different kinds of training. We're great believers in learning from each other. I've learned so much from Ern  Dr. Delbanco...
...And I from Phyllis.
So... the University of Kentucky. Who runs the program down there?
But they're certainly dead. And yes, personally, I find it a bit odd.
It could happen. What about his state certification exams? The records seem to be in order.
You do seem much more disposed toward him than I understand, Ernest. Did I miss something?
Oh, for god's sake, Phyllis  we have no reason to doubt the man! Are we listening to Lionel now?
Phyllis, I'm sorry. I didn't mean to shout...
No, Dr. Delbanco, it is I who am sorry. Sorry to have wasted your time with such...
Better make yourself comfortable. We got a three hour drive here.
I'm fine.
You're the shrink, aren't you?
No, not really.
But you do therapy?
Not any more.
Dr. Mumford.
Mr. Cook.
Could you come with me please?
I know I shoulda come to your office. I was gonna, actually, but then when you walked in here today...
Uhhuh.
It's my daughter Sofie... she's gotta problem.
What's that?
We're not sure. She's been to all kinds of doctors in the city and they've said different things. Some of 'em are callin' it   EpsteinBarr virus, and the rest are callin' it... Chronic Fatigue Symptom...
Syndrome... Chronic Fatigue Syndrome.
That's it  syndrome. So you know all about it?
No... a little. There's a lot of debate about it.
Yeah, I got that. Some people think it's all in their heads. It's been so bad she's had to move back here to Mumford and live with us. And I'm not sure that's the best thing, either...
Why's that?
Oh... a lot of things. Several different factors. Will you see her, Doctor Mumford?
Sure. Why don't you bring her up to my office at 3 tomorrow afternoon.
I'm not sure she'll come. She's in a mood. Do you ever go to somebody's house?
Generally that doesn't work out so well. It sends the wrong message to people who need to make a change.
Hello, Mr. Cook. I was wondering if Sofie was around?
Were you supposed to have a session?
No. It's sort of spur of the moment.
Her friend from the city came and took her out to dinner. First time in a long time she's been willing.
A friend?
What do they want from me? What have I done that's so wrong? They act as though they don't have their own peculiar things... They do! Believe me. Everybody's got something... Even you probably have things.
Me more than most.
Why are they ganging up against me?
I'm not sure. But I think they're worried about you.
It's the kids, you know, not Jeremy. He had nothing to do with this  except pay, of course. He's always willing to pay. He's extremely generous. I'm so humiliated that my own children would threaten me.
How did they threaten you?
They said if I didn't get help, they wouldn't deal with me any more. What do you think about that?
Good kids.
Mmmmfffstttubll abbittmm.
Hmm?
I said... you must come out to the house for dinner on Thursday.
Really? You think so?
Yes. Jeremy will be home for the weekend. And you can meet the kids.
 The argument had nothing to do with it.
I understand. I just want to know what the argument was about.
I had ordered some books. "The 100 Greatest Books Ever Written."
Uhhuh. What are they?
Oh, all the great writers  Shakespeare, Charles Dickens, Moby Dick... those people. Each is bound in genuine premium leather with 22 carat gold accents. It's a magnificent set  and only $33.50 per volume. Right away you get Great Expectations for just $6.99.
One hundred books?
It's irrelevant. It had nothing to do with what happened.
What happened?
We argued on Sunday. He went to work on Monday and stayed in the city during the week, like always. But on Thursday, when he normally comes home, he didn't. Didn't call either. Not till Saturday afternoon.
You must have been concerned.
It's happened before. I'm shocked by how little I'm feeling. I can't understand it. I'll probably have a complete depressoid collapse soon, won't I?
Doubtful. What did he say?
He said he wasn't coming back. He said it wasn't working for him any more. That it hadn't "worked for him" for quite a while... You know what I regret the most? I'm sorry I let him make the kids take his name. He was an acquirer. He liked to acquire things.
I know my time's up, but I've got to get this out while I've got hold of it 
Take your time.
 When I was in high school, the thing I wanted most, when I was stuck in class, the thing I was always desperately in pursuit of  was a hall pass. That's all I wanted. I loved moving freely around the school while everybody else was trapped in there... And that's how I feel right now... Like I have some giant, all day hall pass.
You can go out there if you like...
"There's no shame in getting a little therapy", right, Doc?
Tails tonight, sir?
What  tails? Why, that's a monkey suit![5] Do you want people to laugh at me? I never wore one of those things in my life.
Yes, sir.
What do you think you're doing?
Why, I'm assisting you, sir.
Get up from there. I don't want anybody holding the ends of my pants. Get up from there!
Yes, sir.
Imagine that  holding the ends of my pants!
No, sir.
Excuse me. What did you say?
He talks about women as if they were cattle.
Every man to his taste, sir.
Tell me, Walter, are all those stories I hear about my uncle true?
Well, sir, he sometimes had as many as twenty in the house at the same time.
Twenty! What did he do with them?
That was something I was never able to find out, sir.
Mr. Deeds  Mr. Deeds, sir  you really must get up. It's late!
You're Walter, aren't you?
Yes, sir.
I just wanted to make sure.
Yes, sir.
What's that?
A Prairie Oyster, sir.[10]
Prairie? Oysters?
Yes, sir. It makes the head feel smaller.
Oh. Oh! Has Miss Dawson called yet?
Miss Dawson, sir? No, sir. No Miss Dawson has called, sir.
She was a lady in distress. She wouldn't let me help her. Got a lot of pride. I like that.
Oh, I do too, sir.
I'd better call her up and apologize. I don't remember taking her home last night.
I'd venture to say, sir, you don't remember much of anything that happened last night, sir.
What do you mean? I remember everything! Hand me my pants  I wrote her phone number on a piece of paper.
You have no pants, sir.
You came home last night  without them.
I did what!
As a matter of fact, you came home without any clothes. You were in your  uh  shorts. Yes, sir.
Oh, don't be silly, Walter. I couldn't walk around in the streets without any clothes. I'd be arrested.
That's what the two policemen said, sir.
What two policemen?
The ones who brought you home, sir. They said you and another gentleman kept walking up and down the streets, shouting: "Back to nature! Clothes are a blight on civilization! Back to nature!"
Please!
But how'll I put on the slipper, sir?
Yes, sir. I beg pardon, sir, but did you ever find what you were looking for, sir?
Looking for?
You kept searching me last night, sir. Going through my pockets. You said you were looking for a rhyme for Budington.
Better bring me some coffee, Walter.
Very good, sir. Oh, I beg pardon. A telegram came for you, sir. I'll get you some black coffee, sir.
Madame Pomponi is on the telephone, sir.
Who?
Madame Pomponi. She says everything is all set for the reception.
What do you mean by coming in here when I'm playing?
But she's on the telephone
Get out. The evil finger's on you. Get out!
Hey, did you hear that?
What, sir?
Why, that's an echo, sir!
You try it.
Me, sir?
Yeah.
Yes, sir. What is it, sir? Anything happened3
Anything happened? I've got to get dressed! I can't meet her like this!
But she isn't due for an hour, sir.
An hour? What's an hour! You know how time flies, Walter. My tie? Get it.
Yes, sir. Very good, sir. Here it is right here, sir. There, sir.
Pack my things, Walter. I'm going home.
Yes, sir.
Shall I call the police, sir?
No! What do you want!!
You're Mabel  her sister  aren't you?
Huh? Oh, yes  yes, of course. Her sister. Yes, I've been her sister for a long time.
Is she home?
Yeah. What?
Is Mary home?
You mean by the neck or something?
Sure. They got on my nerves, so I threw 'em out.
Nice day out  er, nice night  wasn't it?  isn't it?
Yes, lovely. We've had a lot of nice weather lately.
It would be a nice night to go for a walk, don't you think?
Oh yes, I think it'd be a swell night to go for a walk. A nice long one.
Goodnight. Don't worry. I won't keep her out late.
Thank you so much. Good night.
What is your name?
Christian Svenson.
Farmer?
Yes, ma'am.
Where is your farm?
South Dakota north.
South Dakota  north?
South Dakota  but on the top.
Oh. Oh!
Who are they?
I don't know.
New mouthpiece. Been waiting two weeks for this. Kids keep swiping them all the time. They use 'em for bean shooters. What can I do for you gentlemen?
You gentlemen going to stay for lunch?
How about lunch? Are the gentlemen going to stay  or not?
Of course they're going to stay. She's got some fresh orange layer cake. You know, with the thick stuff on the top? Sure, they don't want to go to the hotel.
No, he's too fussy for that. That's what's the matter with him. There are lots of nice girls right here in Mandrake Falls who're dying to be married
Don't pay any attention to her.
He's got a lot of foolish notions  about saving a lady in distress.
Now you keep out of this!
Well, we could borrow a couple from Mrs. Simpson. You know, she went to Niagara Falls last year.
I'm kind of nervous. I've never been away from Mandrake Falls in my life. Kind of like to see Grant's Tomb, though.
Hear what he said? You know how much twenty million is?
I don't care how much it is. You sit right there and eat your lunch. You haven't touched a thing.
Say fellow, you neglected me  and I feel very put out. Look, sock it right there, will you? Lay one right on the button,[6] but sock it hard.
That's all right. I got it off my chest.
The difference between them and me is I know when I've been a skunk. You take me to the nearest news stand and I'll eat a pack of your postcards raw. Raw!
Oh, what a magnificent deflation of smugness. Pal, you've added ten years to my life! A poet with a straight left and a right hook  delicious! Delicious! You're my guest from now on  forever and a day  even unto eternity!
Thanks, but Miss Dawson and I are going out to see the sights.
Fine, fine. Swell, You just showed me a sight lovely to behold, and I'd like to reciprocate. Listen, you hop aboard my magic carpet thanks  and I'll show you sights that you've never seen before.
I'd kind of like to see Grant's Tomb  and the Statue of Liberty.
Well, you'll not only see those, but before the evening's half through, you'll be leaning against the Leaning Tower of Pisa  you'll mount Mt. Everest. I'll show you the Pyramids and all the little Pyramiddes, leaping from sphinx to sphinx. Pal, how would you like to go on a real, oldfashioned binge?
Binge?
Yes. I mean the real McCoy. Listen, you play saloon with me, and I'll introduce you to every wit, every nitwit, and every halfwit in New York. We'll go on a twister that'll make Omar the soused philosopher of Persia[7] look like an anemic on a goat's milk diet.
That ought to be fun.
Fun? Say, listen, I'll take you on a bender that will live in your memory as a thing of beauty and joy forever. Boy! Boy! My headpiece!
Huh? On, no. Nobody important.
Be sure and point 'em out to me, won't you?
Uhhuh.
I'm a writer myself, you know.
Uhhuh.
I write poetry.
Uhhuh.
Brookfield just came in.
Oh, the poet? Where?
Over at that big round table. The one that looks like a poodle.
Your Honor
Yes?
I'd like to get in my two cents' worth.
Take the stand!
Proceed.
Well, I don't know where to begin. There's been so many things said about me that I
A what?
An Ofiller. You fill in all the spaces in the O's, with your pencil. I was watching you.
Mr. Deeds, do you recall forcibly ejecting people from your home?
Oh, yes. Yes. About my throwing those people out of my house. Mrs. Pomponi told the truth. I did throw them out because I didn't want the party in the first place. I didn't invite anybody. Mrs. Pomponi did all that. They just came to see what kind of a freak the "Cinderella Man" was. I don't know how people like that are supposed to act, Your Honor, but if that Pomponi woman is an example, I'll stick to simple folks. She just came in, talked my ear off, and took charge of everything. If I were a friend of hers, I'd have her examined.
Now about the Falkner sisters. That's kind of funny. I mean about Mr. Cedar going all the way to Mandrake Falls to bring them here. Do you mind if I talk to them?
Not at all.
Mr. Deeds, you haven't yet touched upon a most important thing. This rather fantastic idea of yours to want to give away your entire fortune. It is, to say the least, most uncommon.
Oh yes, I was getting to that, Your Honor.
Please, Mr. Cedar! Proceed.
Personally, I don't know what Mr. Cedar's raving about. From what I can see, no matter what system of government we have, there will always be leaders and always be followers.
Anything else, Mr. Deeds?
No. Yes. There's just one more thing I'd like to get off my chest before I finish.
Proceed.
Thank you, Your Honor.
No  I don't want it, thank you.
Why, you must drink! All poets drink!
Well, I don't know. I
Mr. Morrow, over there, for instance, just dashes them off.
Yes. Have you any peculiar characteristics when you are creating?
Well, I play the tuba.
No.
You mean to tell me you don't carry a pocketful around with you?
Look, he's temperamental.
Yeah, what if I am? What about it?
Mrs. Semple?
Yes. Your uncle's commonlaw wife. She has a legal claim on the estate.
I leave it to you, Mr. Deeds. Can you conceive of any court not being in sympathy with any woman who gave up the best years of her life for an old man like your uncle?
What kind of wife did you say she was?
Commonlaw wife. On top of that, there's a child.
A child? My uncle's?
Yes, sir.
That's awful. The poor woman should be taken care of immediately.
I'm glad to see you're willing to be reasonable, Mr. Deeds.
If she was his wife, she should have all the money. That's only fair. I don't want a penny of it.
Well, what about it, Mr. Deeds?
You'll excuse me, won't you? I'll be right back.
Sorry to keep you waiting so long. Those opera people are funny. They wanted me to put up $180,000.
What about it, Mr. Deeds?
Why, I turned them down, naturally.
No, I mean  about my client.
Oh  we'll have to do something about the common wife.
Of course, we don't want to appear greedy, Mr. Deeds.
Huh?
I say we don't want to appear greedy.
Oh. That.
Mrs. Semple is entitled by law to onethird of the estate.
And don't ever get down on your knees again, understand?
Mrs. Semple is entitled to one third of the estate.
Onethird? That's about $7,000,000 isn't it?
Well, we didn't expect that much. I'm sure I can get her to settle quietly for one million.
You're making a mistake, Mr. Deeds.
Oh no, I'm not. I don't like your face. Besides, there's something fishy about a person who would settle for a million dollars when they can get seven million. I'm surprised that Mr. Cedar, who's supposed to be a smart man, couldn't see through that.
Now wait a minute, buddy
There's one nice thing about being rich  you ring a bell and things happen. When the servant comes in, Mr. Hallor, I'm going to ask him to show you to the door. Many people don't know where it is.
No use in getting tough. That'll get you nowhere, Mr. Deeds. You know, we've got letters.
Let him alone.
Let me alone! If you know what's good for you  you'll let me get this off my chest! How did you feel feeding doughnuts to a horse? Get a kick out of it, huh? Got a big laugh? Did you ever think of feeding doughnuts to human beings! No!
Yeah  that's all that's worrying you. What do I want? A chance to feed a wife and kids! I'm a farmer. A job! That's what I want!
A farmer, eh! You're a moocher, that's what you are! I wouldn't believe you or anybody else on a stack of bibles! You're a moocher like all the rest of them around here, so get out of here!
Sure  everybody's a moocher to you. A mongrel dog eating out of a garbage pail is a moocher to you!
Here's the order for the plows. We got a good price on them.
That's fine. Thanks. I'll look 'em over later.
Oh, Mr. Deeds
my wife wanted me to tell you she she prays for you every night.
Well, thanks, I  uh How do you do? What is your name?
You remember, Dr. Fosdick, in my last book there are some very fine examples.
Uhhuh.
Especially, the one of the young nobleman, you remember?
Oh, yes. Yes, of course Dr. Von Holler. Very interesting.
It reminds me very much of this one. Nicht wahr?
Ja.
It takes so long to detect them because their mood changes so often and so quickly. Now, Your Honor, may I show you? May I use the chart?
I'm Chairman?
Oh Yes, of course  you've just been elected.
I'm Chairman.
Wait a minute. What does the Chairman do?
Why, the Chairman presides at the meetings.
That's what I thought. If you don't mind, I'm rather interested in the Treasurer's report. I'd like to hear it.
You see, Mr. Deeds, the opera is not conducted for profit.
It isn't? What is it conducted for?
Why, it's an artistic institution
We own an opera house, don't we?
We provide opera.
But you charge. I mean, you sell tickets?
That's impossible. The opera has never paid.
Well, then, we must give the wrong kind of shows.
The wrong kind! There isn't any wrong or right kind. Opera is opera!
I guess it is. But I personally wouldn't care to be head of a business that kept losing money. That wouldn't be common sense. Incidentally, where is the $180,000 coming from?
Well, we were rather expecting it to come from you.
Me?!
Naturally.
Excuse me, gentlemen, there's nothing natural about that .
Now, where were we?
You see, Mr. Deeds, the opera is not conducted like any ordinary business.
Why not?
Because it just isn't a business, that's all!
Well, maybe it isn't to you, but it certainly is a business to me, if I have to make up a loss of $180,000. If it's losing that much money, there must be something wrong. Maybe you charge too much. Maybe you're selling bad merchandise. Maybe lots of things. I don't know. You see, I expect to do a lot of good with that money. And I can't afford to put it into anything that I don't look into. That's my decision for the time being, gentlemen. Goodbye, and thank you for making me Chairman.
Oh, it'll do in a pinch.
Yes, indeed. I wonder why he left me all that money? I don't need it.
Cedar, Cedar, Cedar and Budington. Funny, I can't think of a rhyme for Budington.
Why should you?
Well, whenever I run across a funny name, I always like to poke around for a rhyme. Don't you?
Nah.
I've got one for Cobb
"There once was a man named Cobb, Who kept Semple away from the mob. Came the turn of the tide And Semple  he died  And now poor Cobb's out of a job!"
Sounds like a two weeks' notice to me.
Huh?
I've gotten the 'sackaroo' in many ways  but never in rhyme.
Oh, I don't mean that. I'm sure I'm going to need your help.
Oh, that's different if it's just poetry.
This afternoon  at four o'clock.
I don't think we've got any suitcases.
Have a drink?
No, thanks.
Thanks Oh, did you send that telegram to Jim Mason?
Jim Mason? Oh, yeah. Yeah. No, I didn't send it. I've got it written out, though. Here it is. "Arthur's been with the Tallow Works too long. STOP. Don't think we should fire him. Longfellow."
Fine. Send it right away. I don't want him to fire Arthur.
Oh, sure. Sure. We don't want to fire Arthur.
He was the last baby my father delivered, Arthur was.
You'd better get right down there. That opera mob is about to break into the Mad Song from "Lucia."[2]
Oh, I don't want to keep them waiting any longer. They're important people. I wish you'd go along with me, Cobb. They're all strangers to me.
Gee, I'm busy. Did the opera people always come here for their meetings?
Uhhuh.
That's funny. Why is that?
Why do mice go where there's cheese?[3]
I can't hold out on you any longer. Lamb bites wolf. Beautiful.
Only common sense.
Well, how about tonight? What would you like in the way of entertainment?
Entertainment?
Your uncle had a weakness for dark ones, tall and stately. How would you like yours? Dark or fair, tall or short, fat or thin, tough or tender?
What're you talking about?
Women! Ever heard of 'em?
Oh.
Name your poison and I'll supply it.
Some other time, Cobb. Some other time.
Okay, you're the boss. When your blood begins to boil, yell out. I'll be seeing you!
Did you see all this stuff in the papers?
Arthur wants to quit!
Arthur! Who's Arthur?
He's the shipping clerk at the Tallow Works. Wants a $2 raise  or he'll quit.
What do I care about Arthur! Did you see this stuff in the paper? How'd it get in there? What'd you do last night? Who were you talking to?
And what'd you do to those bodyguards? They quit this morning. Said you locked them up.
Oh, they insisted on following me.
What do you think bodyguards are for?
What do they mean by this  "Cinderella Man!"
Are those stories true?
I don't remember. "Cinderella Man!" What do they mean by that?
They'd call you anything if you gave them half a chance. They've got you down as a sap.
I think I'll go down and punch this editor on the nose.
No, you don't! Get this clear: Socking people is no solution for anything.
Sometimes it's the only solution.
Not editors. Take my word for it. Not editors!
If they're going to poke fun at me, I'm going to
Listen. Listen, Longfellow. You've got brains, kid. You'll get along swell if you'll only curb your homicidal instincts  and keep your trap shut. Don't talk to anybody! These newshounds are out gunning for you.
But what about this "Cinderella Man"?
That's my job. I'll take care of that. I'll keep that stuff out of the papers  if you'll help me. But I can't do anything if you go around talking to people. Will you promise me to be careful from now on?
Yes, I guess I'll have to.
Thank you. If you feel the building rock, it'll be me blasting into this editor.
Just as I suspected, wise guy! I don't mind you making a sap out of yourself  but you made one out of me, too.
Will you tell the gentleman I'm not in?
Mary Dawson, huh? Mary Dawson, my eye. That dame took you for a sleigh ride that New York will laugh about for years. She's the slickest, two timing, doublecrossing
She's the star reporter on The Mail. Every time you opened your kisser, you gave her another story. She's the dame who slapped that monicker on you  "Cinderella Man." You've been making love to a double dose of cyanide!
Shut up!
You shouldn't be running away like this. What's going to happen to the Estate?
They can have the Estate.
What about your knocking off for lunch?
Not hungry. I want to get through this work in a hurry, and then I want to go home. What price did you get on those trucks?
Come on, come on. What are you trying to do, kid? Keel over? You haven't been out of this house in two weeks.
Well, maybe I will have a sandwich. Do you mind waiting a few minutes?
Cobb! Get lunch for the rest of them.
What? There must be 2000 of them out there.
Well, that doesn't make 'em any less hungry.
Okay, Santa Claus. 2000 lunches.
Oh, will you come in please, gentlemen?
Is Mr. Deeds in?
No  he's over to the park arranging for the bazaar, so's to raise money for the fire engine. Mal, you shoulda knowed he was in the park.
Come in, please. Come in. Can I get you a cup of tea?
No, thanks.
Sit down. Sure I couldn't get you a glass of lemonade or something?
That's very kind of you. Are you related to him?
No, I'm his housekeeper.
Well, we'd like to find out something about him. What does he do for a living?
He and Jim Mason own the Tallow Works. But that's not where he makes his money. He makes most of it from his poetry.
Mr. Longfellow Deeds?
Yes.
How do you do.
How do you do.
I'm John Cedar  of the New York firm of Cedar, Cedar, Cedar and Budington.
I'd like to ask you a few questions.
All right.
Mr. Deeds, are you the son of Dr. Joseph and Mary Deeds?
Yes.
Are your parents living?
Why, no.
Mr. Deeds, does the name of Martin W. Semple mean anything to you?
Not much. He's an uncle of mine, I think. I never saw him, but my mother's name was Semple, you know.
Well, he passed on. He was killed in a motor accident in Italy.
He was? Gee, that's too bad. If there's anything I can do to
Perhaps you didn't hear what I said, Mr. Deeds! The whole Semple fortune goes to you! $20,000,000!
Oh, yes, I heard you all right. $20,000,000. That's quite a lot, isn't it?
Mr. Cobb here is an exnewspaperman associated with your uncle for many years  as a sort of buffer.
Buffer?
Are you a married man, Mr. Deeds?
Who  me? No.
Saving a lady in distress, eh? Well, I suppose we all have dreams like that when we are young. Incidentally, we'd better get started. You'll have to pack.
What for?
You're going to New York with us.
When?
Will you have a cigar?
No, thank you.
I wouldn't worry if I were you. Of course, a large fortune like this entails a great responsibility  but you'll have a good deal of help. So don't worry. Leave everything to me.
Oh, I wasn't worried about that.
No?
I was wondering where they're going to get another tuba player for the band.
It's merely a suggestion. I don't wish to press the point, Mr. Deeds, but if you'll give me your Power of Attorney we'll take care of everything. It'll save you a lot of petty annoyances. Every shark in town will be trying to sell you something.
Oh, yes, there've been a lot of them around here already. Strangest kind of people. Salesmen  politicians  moochers  all want something. I haven't had a minute to myself. Haven't seen Grant's Tomb yet.
Well, you see, your uncle didn't bother with that sort of thing. He left everything to us. He traveled most of the time, and enjoyed himself. You should do the same thing, Mr. Deeds.
Besides wanting to be my lawyer, you also want to handle my investments too?
Yes. That is to say
Well, outside of your regular fee, how much extra will it cost?
Oh  nothing. No extra charge.
That involves a lot of extra work, doesn't it?
Yes, but that's an added service a firm like Cedar, Cedar, Cedar and Budington usually donates.
Budington. Funny, I can't think of a rhyme for Budington yet.
I think you ought to give this matter some thought, Mr. Deeds.
Huh?
I mean, about the Power of Attorney.
Oh, yes. Yes, I will.
Why not? Who is he?
A lawyer representing some woman with a claim against the estate. Tell him to see me at my office.
Well, if he has a claim, we'd better see him. Send him in.
He's capable of causing you a lot of trouble, Mr. Deeds.
How can he make any trouble for me? I haven't done anything.
I can't hold out any longer either, Mr. Deeds. Being an attorney for you will be a very simple affair.
You're not my attorney yet, Mr. Cedar. Not till I find out what's on your mind. Suppose you get the books straightened out quick so I can have a look at them.
Yes, of course, if you wish. But you must be prepared. This sort of thing will be daily routine. If it becomes annoying, you let me know. Goodbye, Mr. Deeds. Goodbye, sir.
Yes?
Make three reservations on the first train out to Mandrake Falls, Vermont.
Where?
Mandrake Falls. MAN
Charlie, we're off! Papers all set?
All set.
Okay, then. Go to it. And, Charlie
Yeah?
Find out who wrote those newspaper articles and subpoena them right away.
Okay.
Newspaperman?
Wants to know who the heir is.
Hang up.
Sorry, Mac, I can't. Yeah, Mac. Sure, but I ain't the attorney
Hang up.
Mr. Cedar is, and I haven't seen him in two days. Listen, Cedar, we've got to do something about the newspapers.
I'm not interested in the newspapers.
But it's a great story. Somewhere in this country a guy is walking into twenty million bucks.
Yes, I know. My first concern is to locate the lucky man. When I do, it's your job to keep the newspapers away from him.
It's okay with me as long as my weekly stipend keeps coming in.
That's pretty.
Are you sure this is the town he lives in?
I guess we'd better try somebody else.
No, we won't! The next time that jumping jack comes out, I'll straddle him while you ask him your questions.
Yeah. A glorified doormat.
Yes. You see, rich people need someone to keep the crowds away. The world's full of pests. Then there's the newspapers to handle. One must know when to seek publicity  and when to avoid it.
I can understand that. We'll take a walk around town, meet you at the train at four o'clock. Congratulations, Mr. Deeds. You're one of the richest men in the country. We'll see you later. Goodbye and thank you.
See you later, kid.
I can't find him.
You can't?
I looked everywhere. I even went to his house. It's locked up.
Look!
What?
That tuba player!
Well, your uncle was Chairman of the Board of Directors. They probably expect you to carry on.
I'll tell those mugs to keep their shirts on, that you'll be right down.
Miss Bennett please!
This is outrageous!
The Falkner sisters are rather timid, Your Honor, and wish to be together. If the court pleases, I will only have one of them testify.
Yes! Yes! Let's get on with it.
Must we have the echo?
Suppose you just answer, Miss Jane. Now, will you tell the Court what everybody at home thinks of Longfellow Deeds?
He's what?
What was that you said he was?
Your Honor, I object.
Proceed.
It's a lie!
Mr. Cedar!
Mr. Deeds is drawing on his warped imagination!
You will please permit Mr. Deeds to finish.
But your honor
Mr. Cedar!
Thank heaven.
Better wire him right away, John.
I'll do no such thing. I'm going there myself. You're going with me too, Anderson  and you too, Cobb.
Come on, John. What happened?
The smartest thing I ever did was to make that trip.
Relatives of old man Semple.
They keep insisting they should have some nuisance value.
Nuisance value?
They say if it hadn't been for Deeds, they'd have gotten all the money.
Nuisance value. Maybe they have! Maybe they have! Maybe they have! Mr. and Mrs. Semple, please. How do you do?
You can't come up here!
Let me go! I wanna see him!
He's not home, I tell you!
I wanna see that guy!
We'll send for the police!
Let me go!
The gentlemen from the opera are still waiting in the board room, sir. They're getting a trifle impatient, sir.
They are? I forgot all about them. What do you think they want?
Will you show Mr. Hallor to the front door?
Yes, sir.
Cobb's right. I mustn't talk to anybody.
Miss Dawson on the phone, sir.
Who? Miss Dawson?
Yes, sir.
Fine. I'll talk to her. Give me the phone, quick. She's the only one I'm going to talk to from now on.
You try it.
Me, sir?
How's it going? Okay?
Yes, quite all right. Thank you, sir.
Gold, eh?
Yes, sir.
Fourteen carat?
Yes, sir.
Is that the best you've got?
Oh, yes sir.
Those flowers are too high. Won't be able to see her. Get a smaller bowl, will you?
A smaller bowl of flowers.
Stuff, sir?
That goo. That stuff that tastes like soap.
Oh, yes, sir. Here it is, sir. The pate de fois gras, sir.
Yeah, that's fine. Have a lot of it because she likes it.
Yes, sir.
Sit over there, will you?
Me sir?
Yes.
How is this, sir?
Perfect! Perfect!
I wish you luck, sir.
Thank you. Now don't touch a thing. Leave everything as it is.
We've got nothing to worry about. He's as naive as a child.
John
Close that door. Will you get Mrs. Cedar on the phone, please?
I know, Budington. We can't afford to have the books investigated right now. You must have said that a thousand times already.
But what if they fall into somebody else's hands, why  uh
Well, it hasn't happened yet  has it?
But a half million dollars! My goodness, where are we going to get
Will you stop worrying! It was I who got old man Semple to turn everything over to us, wasn't it? And who got the Power of Attorney from him ! All right, and I'll get it again! I'll take it easy. Those books'll never leave this office.
don't want to be critical, John, but here it is
Yes, I know. A week's gone by and we haven't got the Power of Attorney yet!
Yes, but you said
I don't care what I said. I can't strangle him, can I!
I suppose it's going to be the same old thing.
I tell you that dame's nuts.
Right.
Come on, come on!
Hurry up!
It don't look as though we're gonna get any pictures tonight.
Babe ought to get him drunk again.
I wonder if they'd want to make it a quartet.
Shhh!
Yeah. Mac threw Cobb out again.
Boy, was he burning.
Just one little drink  and then we're ready to shoot.
Ow! My foot's asleep!
Come on  let's go!
Look, I can do it!
What's gotten into you, Babe? I remember the time when you'd blast this town wide open before you'd let Cobb get away with a thing like this.
Oh, he's not getting away with anything.
Listen, Babe  get me some stuff on this guy, and you can have
Can I have a month's vacation?
With pay!
With pay!
Uhhuh.
Leave four columns open on the front page tomorrow.
Now you're talking, Babe. I'll keep the whole front page open. What are you going to do?
Have lunch.
Cinderella Man! That's sensational, Babe! Sensational!
It took some highpowered acting, believe me.
Did it?
I was the world's sweetest ingenue.
Is he really that big a sap?
He's the original. There are no carbon copies of that one.
Cinderella Man! Babe, you stuck a tag on that hick that'll stick to him the rest of his life. Can you imagine Cobb's face when he reads this?
If we could sell tickets, we'd make a fortune.
How'd you get the picture?
Had the boys follow us.
Marvelous! "At two o'clock this morning, Mr. Deeds tied up traffic while he fed a bagful of doughnuts to a horse. When asked why he was doing it, he replied: 'I just wanted to see how many doughnuts this horse would eat before he'd ask for a cup of coffee.'" Beautiful! What happened after that?
I don't know. I had to duck to get the story out. He was so far along he never even missed me.
When're you going to see him again?
Tonight, maybe. I'll phone him at noon. Oh, my lunch hour. I'm a stenographer, you know. Mary Dawson.
You're a genius, Babe  a genius!
I even moved into Mabel Dawson's apartment  in case old snoopy Cobb might start looking around.
Good! Good! Stay there. Don't show your face down here. I'll tell everybody you're on your vacation. They'll never know where the stories are coming from. Stick close to him, Babe  you can get an exclusive story out of him every day for a month. We'll have the other papers crazy. Babe, I could kiss you!
Oh, no. No. Our deal was for a month's vacation  with pay.
Sure.
With pay! She is out the door.
You'll get it, Babe. You'll get it.
What's bothering you, huh?
Last night he proposed to me.
Proposed to you! You mean he asked you to marry him?
Yes.
Why, Babe  that's terrific! "Cinderella Man Woos Mystery Girl! Who is the Mysterious Girl That"
Print one line of that, and I'll blow your place up!
Sorry, Babe. Sorry. It would have made a swell story. I just got carried away. That's too bad. So he proposed to you, huh? What a twist! You set out to nail him  and he
Yeah. Funny twist, isn't it?
Say, you haven't gone and fallen for that mug, have you?
What're you going to do?
I'm going to tell him the truth.
Tell him you're Babe Bennett? Tell him you've been making a stooge out of him?
I'm having lunch with him today. He expects an answer. It's going to be pretty.
You're crazy! You can't do that!
He'll probably kick me right down the stairs. I only hope he does.
I'll put you on another job. You need never see him again, eh?
That's the rub.
Oh, as bad as that, huh?
Telling him is the long shot  I'm going to take it.
This is for you , Mac. The names of all the headwaiters in town. You can always buy a bit of choice scandal from them at reasonable prices.
Aw, listen Babe, I can't let you quit now. You're not going through with this thing, are you?
It's for you. In a couple weeks you'll get the itch so bad, you'll be working for nothing.
Hello . . .
What's the matter, hon?
Nothing.
What's up, Babe? Something's eating you.
No. It's nothing.
My unfailing instinct tells me something's gone wrong with the stew.
Don't be ridiculous.
You haven't gotten very far, have you? That's where you were an hour ago. Come on, let's knock off and go down to Joe's. The gang's waiting for us.
I can't write it, Mabel! I don't know what's the matter with me.
Good night.
Mabel, that guy's either the dumbest, the stupidest, the most imbecilic idiot in the world  or he's the grandest thing alive. I can't make him out.
Uhhuh.
I'm crucifying him.
People have been crucified before.
Why? Why do we have to do it?
You started out to be a successful newspaper woman, didn't you?
Yeah, then what?
Search me. Ask the Gypsies.
Here's a guy that's wholesome and fresh. To us he looks like a freak. You know what he told me tonight? He said when he gets married he wants to carry his bride over the threshold in his arms.
The guy's balmy.
Is he? Yeah, I thought so, too. I tried to laugh, but I couldn't. It stuck in my throat.
Aw, cut it out, will you? You'll get me thinking about Charlie again.
He's got goodness, Mabel. Do you know what that is?
Huh?
No  of course you don't. We've forgotten. We're too busy being smartalecks. Too busy in a crazy competition for nothing.
You're a fool, Babe.
I just couldn't stand seeing him again.
Running away is no solution.
What'll I tell him if he calls up?
Tell him I had to leave suddenly. I got a job in China  some place.
You're acting like a school girl.
What else can I do? Keeping this up is no good. He's bound to find out sometime. At least I can save him that .
Just a minute. No, you don't.
We're not going out tonight.
Why there she is! Of course she's home. Stupid of me . . .
Hello.
You fainted.
Oh, did I? I'm sorry . . .
No, thank you. I'll be all right.
Look, this is my house. I'd like to
Oh, no, really  I'll be all right.
What happened?
Well, I guess I walked too much. I've been looking for a job all day. I found one, too. I start tomorrow. You've been awfully kind. Thank you very much.
Feel better now?
Mmm, it tastes so good. Mr. Deeds, I don't know how I can ever thank you.
Tell me more about yourself.
Well, I guess I've told you almost everything there is to tell. My folks live in a small town near Hartford. I'm down here alone trying to make a living. Oh, I'm really just a nobody.
Oh, that was so lovely. Thank you.
You were a lady in distress, weren't you?
What?
Oh  uh  nothing.
You've been having quite an exciting time here, haven't you? All those meetings and business deals and society people  haven't you been having fun?
No. That is, I didn't Until I met you. I like talking to you, though Imagine my finding you right on my doorstep.
Look  there's Brookfield, the poet.
Really?
There's just one thing more. If it weren't for Miss Dawson being here with me, I'd probably bump your heads together.
Oh, I don't mind.
It's awfully nice of you to show me around like this.
I enjoy it.
The Aquarium was swell. If I lived in New York, I'd go there every day. I'll bet you do.
Well, I'd like to  but I have a job to think of.
Sure. I met you.
Oh. What's happening about the opera?
Oh, that  well, we had another meeting. I told them I'd go on being Chairman if
I told 'em I'd play along with them if they lowered their prices  and cut down expenses  and broadcast.
What did they say?
Gosh, you look pretty tonight.
What did they say?
Huh? Oh. They said I was crazy. Said I wanted to run it like a grocery store.
What are they going to do?
Do you always wear your hair like that?
Have you seen the papers?
Uhhuh.
That's what I like about you. You think about a man's feelings. I'd like to go down to that newspaper and punch the fellow in the nose that's writing that stuff
Would you like to walk the rest of the way? It's so nice out.
Yes.
Yeah, let's.
There you are. Grant's Tomb. I hope you're not disappointed.
It's wonderful.
To most people, it's an awful letdown.
Huh?
I say, to most people it's a washout.
That depends on what they see.
Now, what do you see?
Me? Oh, I see a small Ohio farm boy becoming a great soldier. I see thousands of marching men. I see General Lee with a broken heart, surrendering, and I can see the beginning of a new nation, like Abraham Lincoln said. And I can see that Ohio boy being inaugurated as President Things like that can only happen in a country like America.
There's Times Square.
You can almost spit on it, can't you?
Why don't you try?
You're worried about those articles they're writing about you, aren't you?
I'm not worrying any more. I suppose they'll go on writing them till they get tired. You don't believe all that stuff, do you?
Oh, they just do it to sell the newspapers, you know.
Yeah, I guess so. What puzzles me is why people seem to get so much pleasure out of hurting each other. Why don't they try liking each other once in a while?
Here's a nice place.
Yeah. Anyway, there aren't any photographers around.
You know, you said something to me when you first met me that I've thought about a great deal.
What's that?
You said I was a lady in distress.
Oh, that
What did you mean by that?
Nothing
Oh, I don't know.
You must have met a lot of swell society girls since you've been here. Don't you like them?
I haven't met anybody here that I like, particularly. They all seem to have the St. Vitus Dance.[12] Except you, of course. People here are funny. They work so hard at living  they forget how to live Last night, after I left you, I was walking along and looking at the tall buildings and I got to thinking about what Thoreau said. They created a lot of grand palaces here  but they forgot to create the noblemen to put in them.
I'd rather have Mandrake Falls.
I'm from a small town too, you know.
Really?
Probably as small as Mandrake Falls.
Gosh! What do you know about that!
I've often thought about going back.
You have?
Oh, yes. I used to have a lot of fun there when I was a little girl. I used to love to go fishing with my father. That's funny. He was a lot like you, my father was. Talked like you, too. Sometimes he'd let me hold the line while he smoked  and we'd just sit there for hours. And after awhile, for no reason, I'd go over and kiss him and sit in his lap. He never said very much but once I remember him saying: "No matter what happens, honey, don't complain."
He sounds like a person worth while knowing.
He played in the town band, too.
He did? I play the tuba
Yeah, I know.
What did he play?
The drums. He taught me to play some.
He did?
Yes. I can do "Swanee River." Would you like to hear me?
Sure!
Oh, I suppose you could do better.
Sure. I can sing "Humoresque."
"Humoresque"? I'll bet you don't even know how it goes.
Sure. Look! You sing it over again, and I'll do "Humoresque" with you.
It had better be good.
Couldn't sleep. Kinda wanted to talk to you. Do you mind?
No  not at all. I couldn't sleep either.
I wanted to thank you again for going out with me. Huh? Well, I don't know what I'd do without you. You've made up for all the fakes that I've met.
Well, that's very nice. Thank you.
You know what I've been doing since I got home? Been working on a poem. It's about you. Sometimes it's kinda hard for me to say things  so I write 'em.
I'd like to read it some time.
I didn't think you could come with the party and everything.
Oh, I wouldn't let them stop me from seeing you. So I threw them out!
You threw them out!
Yes, if it isn't too late.
I'll get my hat.
Ready?
Gosh, she looks better every time I see her.
Thank you.
The reason why I wanted to take a walk, Mary, is 'cause I wanted to talk to you.
Let's just walk, okay?
All right.
Mary, I'm going home.
Are you? When?
In a day or so, I think.
I don't blame you.
Do you mind if I talk to you, Mary? You don't have to pay any attention to me.
No, I don't mind.
All my life, I've wanted somebody to talk to. Back in Mandrake Falls, I always used to talk to a girl.
A girl?
Oh, an imaginary one. I used to hike a lot through the woods and I'd always take this girl with me so I could talk to her. I'd show her my pet trees and things. Sounds kind of silly but we had a lot of fun doing it.
Well, here we are again.
Yes, here we are again. Good night.
Mary  I  excuse me
Would you like to read it? It's to you.
Yes, of course.
Hello, Mary?
Oh, hello darling.
It's obviously a frameup! They're trying to railroad this man for the money they can get out of him!
Your Honor!
Thank you, Your Honor. Are you employed by the Morning Mail?
No!
You are under oath, Miss Bennett. I ask you again  are you employed by the Morning Mail?
No! I resigned last week!
Were you given an assignment to follow the activities of Longfellow Deeds?
Yes.
Did you subsequently write a series of articles about him?
Yes!
Are these the articles?
Yes!
Were you present when all these things took place?
Yes!
Are they true!
NO!!
But they did take place?
They're colored! Just to make him look silly!
And you saw them happen?
Yes, but I
That's all, Miss Bennett.
It isn't all! I'd like to explain
That's all, Miss Bennett. That's all.
Oh, thank you!
Your Honor, what she is saying has no bearing on the case. I object.
Your Honor, this is absurd. The woman's obviously in love with him.
What's that got to do with it?
Well, you are in love with him, aren't you?
What's that got to do with it?
You are , aren't you?
Yes!!!
No. Are you?
No.
You don't go out with girls very much, do you?
I haven't.
Why not?
I don't mind though. I had a lot of fun doing it.
Would you like to go for a walk?
Are you married?
Yes, sir.
Any children?
No, no children.
All right, Mr. Dodsworth. I think you'll qualify. Take this to that desk over there for further instructions.
Thank you very much.
Next, please.
Since he was born.
Yes. Elsie Taggart was the midwife.
He was a sevenmonths baby.
Most every day.
Sometimes twice.
They think he's pixilated.
Oh yes, pixilated.
Pixilated.
Uhhuh.
He walks in the rain, without his hat, and talks to himself.
Sometimes he whistles.
And sings.
For no reason, I guess. He always does it. We always run into the house when we see him coming.
Never can tell what he's going to do.
He sure is pixilated.
Oh, yes  he's pixilated all right.
Why, you own it, Longfellow.
Yes, you own it.
Why, you've always been pixilated, Longfellow.
Always.
Why, everybody in Mandrake Falls in pixilated  except us.
Uhhuh.
Oh, yes.
Yes, indeedy.
He's still pixilated.
He sure is.
Good morning.
Morning, neighbors. Morning.
I say, my friend, do you know a fellow by the name of Longfellow Deeds?
Deeds?
Yes.
Yes, sir. Yes, indeedy. Everyone knows Deeds.
Yes, I
We'd like to get in touch with him. It's very important.
Who's that?
Deeds! Who do you think I'm talking about?
Oh, yes  Deeds. Fine fellow. Very democratic. You won't have no trouble at all. Talk to anybody.
No. Don't ever want to go out without telling us.
Who are you?
Yeah, Mr. Cobb said stick to your tail no matter what.
That's very nice of Mr. Cobb  but I don't want anybody sticking to my tail no matter what.
That's going to be fun.
Some people like it.
Put that away, slug! At your service!
I got a trunk in that room. Will you get it out for me?
Certainly.
Mr. President...
Senator Paine.
I present the credentials of Honorable Jefferson Smith who has just been appointed Senator by the Governor of my state.
Mr. President! Will the Senator yield?
Will Senator Smith yield to?
Will the Senator yield?
Order! Will Senator Smith yield to?
Senator Paine will state it!
It was *I* who rose in this Chamber to accuse him. He is saying that I was carrying out criminal orders on falsified evidence
I accuse this manby his toneby his careful denialshe is deliberately trying to plant damaging impressions of my conduct! *I'll* tell you why we were in tht room. Because Mr. Taylor, a respected citizen of our State, had brought with him the evidence against this man, later presented from this floor, and *we were urging him to resign* !
Order!
to avoid bringing disgrace upon a clean and honorable State!
Order!
Finally, there was only one answer to a man like himthe truthwhich I rose and gave to this body! Mr. Presidenthe has told lie upon lieevery lie a desperate attempt to conceal his own guilt. And now, he is trying to blackmail this Senate as he tried to blackmail me! To prevent his expulsion, he would probably even try to hold up this Deficiency Billvital to the whole countrywhich must be passed immediately*today*! *Anything*to force you to clear his bad name and save his hide! GentlemenII have no more patience with thisthis *rascally* character. I apologize to this body for his appointmentI regret I had ever known him. II'm sick and tired of this contemptible young man and I refuse to listen to him any longer! I hope every member of this body feels as I do!
Mr. President, will the Senator yield for a question?
Will Senator Smith yield to his colleague?
Is there objection? You may proceed, Senator.
Page boys!
Here, here, Susanthis is Jeff Smith our new Senator.
I don't care to meet anybody until I get paidcome oncome on. One dollar each, please, for the Milk Fund.
How nice.
All right, we'll take Jeff with us
I'm afraid we won't have room in the car, Father. Senator Smith can follow with Mr. McGann and the pigeons.
His first 'whiff'!
Such pretty knees for a big boy!
Do I actually *see* this?
Listen, Father! "Young Lochinvar smitten with Susan Paine"!
Fatheroh.
Jefferson dropped in for a minute, Susan.
How nice. How do you do, Senator?
Well, at the expense of some of the furniture, Susanyou've made another conquest.
What! Not Ol' Honest Abe!
And Honest Abe's ideals. A rare man these days.
That Happy Hopper is tougher to handle than a primadonna.
in other words, Jimwith this Willet Creek Dam on the firethe man who goes to the Senate now in Sam Foley's place can't ask any questions or talk out of turn. We must be absolutely sure of him.
That's why I say MillerHorace Miller. He jumped through hoops for the machine before we moved him up to the bench. He'll take orders.
Jimsuppose we didn't try to go through with this Willet Creek Dam suppose we postpone it until the next session of Congressor drop it altogether
That'd be a crimeafter all this workgetting it buried in this Deficiency Bill as nice as you please approvedall ready to roll
How much does the Willet Dam mean to you, Jim?
JoeI've got a lot of people to take care of in this State.
I know, but is it worth the risk of a scandal now that a new man is going to the Senate?
Joewhat's the matter with you where you're concerned, I wouldn't take the slightest risk'specially now after the great reputation you've made in the Senate. Why, look at this campaign I've started for you in all my papers. You're the logical man from the West on the National ticketat the convention, anything can happen
Joe, that's coming a long way in twenty years since I met you practising law down there in Main Street.
Jimif what you say about the future is remotely possiblewhy not do as I saydrop things like this dam?
We can't drop it now, Joe. We bought the land around this Dam and we're holding it in dummy names. If we drop it or delay itwe are going to bring about investigations, and investigations will show that we own that land and are trying to sell it to the State under phoney names. No, Joe, in my judgment the only thing to do is push this Dam throughand get it over with.
Well, then appoint Millerif you're sure he'll take orders.
Don't worry about Horacehe'll take orders. Come on
Wait a minute, boys. Happy may have hit on something tremendous here. Rather than let Miller or anyone else in at this stage, we simply put blinders on this simple son of nature and turn him loose on monuments. He's completely out of the way in Washington, and as Happy says, you make political capital out of it at home.
Joedo you mean to saydo you think you can actually *handle* thisthis whateveryoucallit in Washington?
A young patriot?Who recites Jefferson and Lincoln?turned loose in our nation's capital? I think I can.
Chickturn the ballyhoo boys loose on this right away. Greatest appointment ever made. A banquet declare a holiday.
That's him. Let him in.
Wait a minuteJimyou didn't ask *Smith* over here!
What do you think?
Jim, you can't come here and pull that steamroller stuff. Your methods won't do here. This boy is a Senator, however it happened, he's a Senator. This is Washington.
Steamroller stuff, Joe? My methods don't go in Washington? They've done pretty well by now, haven't they?
Oh, Jim, that's beside the point. This boy's different. He's honest and beside he thinks the world of me. We can't do this to him.
Well, what do you want me to do? Stand around like you chump and let that drooling infant wrap that Willet Creek Dam appropriation around my neck. Either he falls in line with us and behaves himself or I'll break him so wide open they'll never be able to find the pieces.
Jim, I won't stand for it.
You won't stand for it?
I don't want any part of crucifying this boy.
Oh, I see. Out steamroller methods are getting too hard to your sensitive soul, is that it, Joe? The Silver Knight is getting to big for us. My methods have been all right for the past twenty years, Joe, since I picked you out of a flyspecked hole in the wall and blew you up to look like a Senator, and now you can't stand it. Well, maybe you won't have to stand it, Joe. Maybe we can fix it so you and your Boy Ranger can go home together.
Jim, you don't have to
Oh, it's all rightit's all right. It seems a shame, though, to part company like this after all these years, especially now with a national convention coming up. Joe, I've put everything I have behind you. And so did all of our friends, but I guess we'll survive. We'll just have to find somebody else that's got a little more sense, that's all. In the meantime, you explain to Mr. Smith about Willet Dam. It's your bill it's your reputation, and if he can't find enough facts to break you with, you just send him to me and I'll give him a couple of good ones. I'm taking the next plane home.
Jim, it's just that I like the kid I don't want to see you get too rough on him.
I'm glad to see you come to your senses. You had me scared there for a minute, thought. Let him in.
Jeffthis is Mr. Taylor.
Glad to know you, Senator. Meet the boys
Congressmen, Radner, Schultz, Diggs
Jim!
Just a minute, Joe!
You can't say *that* to
*I* know what I'm doing! I'll say what I *want*!
It's in your lap, Joe. Keep an eye on him. If he gets to his feet and says anything
It's crucifying him!
Anything *better* to offer?
Maybe he won't get up.
Butif he *does*, Joe
HeyJoe! Where you going? We've got to celebrate tonight!
NoII'll take a walk
Jimthe boy's talking to that State the story is out!
Sure! The fight's in the open now to a finish!
And if he can raise public opinion against usif any *part* of this sticks
He won't get started! I'll *make* public opinion out there in five hours. I've done it all my life! I'll blacken this punk until Joeyour job is back in the Senate keep those men fighting him *there*.
I hit him from the floor with everything I knew!
Keep doing it! This is the whole works, Joewe're out of business of bigger than we then we ever were. We can't miss a trickwe can't stop at *anything*till this yokel's smashed up and buried so deep he'll never!
You want to see me, Senator?
Yes. Good morning, Saunders. Have youuhany idea how this happened?
The ranger's notices? No idea at all.
No?
NoI'm sorry. I merely saw him home. I'm not supposed to tuck him in and give him his bottle. That's McGann's job.
By the way, Mr. McGann just phoned in a high fever. Smith's gone again. Have you any idea where?
Yes. He went to Mount Vernon to give himself a patriotic address.
Wellthat's very fine. Saunders, some person in your office says you've quit
That's right.
Oh, nowthat won't do
Look, SenatorI wasn't given a brain just to tell a Boy Ranger what time it is. What do you need me for? Get somebody elseget a registered nurse
You're the best nurse I can think of
Nice *compliment*!
I meant it for one. I meantSam Foley couldn't get along without you and neither can I at the moment
No?
You seeGovernor Hopper made an appointment in this case thatwell, Jeff isn't exactly fitted to the work, let's say. He's here to see monumentsand pass the time. That's important toto my workand everybody concerned. So, someone who can be trusted has to occupy him and keep him out of trouble
And I'm an old hand at following instructions
You're more than that. I've had example of the fact that wild horses couldn't pull confidential matter in these two offices out of you. That's why I tell you what I doabout Smith and this situation. So, you see
YeahI see I'm right where I've been for seven years
You deserve a lot better. And I'll tell you what we'll do. Stay and play nurse, as you sayand if certain things happen I'm taking everybody up with me, and you'll get one of the biggest jobs in Washington.
Yeah? And what else?
What do you mean?
Well, when I first came to Washington, my eyes were big, blue question marks now they're big, green dollar marks
I see. All right. You finish this job properlyand you get a handsome bonus besides
What do you want, Senator?
Saundersit's going to go pretty bad for Jeff tomorrow. There's only one thing that can be done for him now II've written his resignation. He resigns under protestdenying all charges. No one will ever be sure if he was guilty or not. It leaves him with at least a shred of honor. The other waybranded openly in the Senateexpelledhe'll never live it down. Rather a simple compromise than utter ruin. In a yearthe whole thing might be forgotten
What are you driving at? You want *me* to get him to sign that?
Yes
Why don't you do it yourself?
He's lost complete faith in me
Wellme, too!
Butyou love him, don't you, Saunders?
What are you talking about? What difference?
Do you?
All right*yes*! And what does that make me to him? *Nothing*! I've got to go about my own businessand forget it!
I thought I could, too. *My* businessthis fine future! I have no future I *care* about, if this boy is broken! II can't sleep. The only important thing in my life now is to save what I can for him. I want him to get a start againI'll see that he's taken care of as long as he lives! Saunderswhether you ever mean anything to him or not
*Me! Me*! I *still* don't see why I should! If you love him so much, why don't you go to him yourself and ? Or better stillget up in that Senate and *fight* for him!
It's too late nowit's *impossible*!
So I go right back where I was carrying compromisescovering up back to political tricksthis time for! No! I was just getting rid of all that. If I did *anything*, I ought to go and tell him to stand up and. No! I don't want any part of it! Smith or anything else! I'm all through. I want to be left alone!
Every word that boy said is the truth! I'm not fit for office! I'm not fit for any place of honor or trust in this land! Expel me!
He did it.
Who? Who? Your boss! A nut, huh? A nut! Wow! There's a *story* in this guy! I smelled it!
Go away, Nosey.
Saundersit's meat and drinklemme at 'im! Five minutes! I'll make it right with you!
What do I *mean*, huh? Uh*I'll* tell yaWorld's Seriesa pass! In a month it's worth fifteen bucks!
Well, well!
Look, Noseyyour pals would like to get in on this, wouldn't they?
HeyI wanna *scoop*!
Well, that's out. Either it's *lots* of reporters and *lots* of tickets or. Now will you go and call 'em before I change my mind about the whole thing!
Okay. See you here.
You can't find it in racing forms, Chick.
Fine thing Jim Taylor wished on me show him the monumentsI need this job like I need ten pounds.
Here, Jeff, I'll advance it for you. Fine introduction to the nation's capital!
Here, I'll take a dozen of those things. Miss Paine.
H'ya, Carlh'ya, Bill!
Jeffmeet Mr. Cook and Mr. Griffith members of our State headquarters here.
Chick
I've got 'im, Joe. Be right along.
Eleven B Street, Northeast. Take his bags and your own right overand get yourself a room in the same place
Listen, Joeat leastafter a day like thisI got one good bust coming before I start showing him monuments
Joedrop everything and come with me!
What's the matter?
Joe! You *told* him to!
Yesa camp bill that will never get beyond a first reading. So calm down, Chickandgoodnight.
Did I hear right? Did he say *Willet Creek*?
Let's get away from here.
That's dynamite, Joe!
amazing coincidence! Of all places in the worldto choose Willet Creek for his boys' camp!
JoeI'm getting leery of this guy. We keep calling him dumband he keeps winding up in our hair! I'm telling youwhen he finds out there's a dam going up where he wants his camp, he's gonna start asking questions six ways from Sunday
Be quiet, ChickI'm trying to think This Deficiency Bill is going to be read in the Senate tomorrow.
Tomorrow! Joehe'll hear the section on Willet Dam. He can't be there!
I know that.
Listentomorrow I take him to see monumentsif I have to hit him over the head with a couple!
That won't work, Chick. This boy's honest, not stupid.
Susan!
My daughter isn't here to carry out assignments like that for *anybody*.
Well, thenthis is too much for *my* lame brain. I'm calling Jim Taylor.
Jim's methods won't do in Washington.
Joelistenall Susan has to do is turn those big eyes on himhe'll fall all over himselfjust keep him out of there *one afternoon*while they read that bill
I've used every argument in the world to try to turn him off. He just keeps coming back to the dam and what he knows
Saunders! I'd like to tie her in a sack and drop her from the Brooklyn Bridge
now he wants to talk to the Congressmen from the Willet Creek districtshe's run their names down
Your Ranger's on the garbage pile, Happy! He's done for!
Shut up! You've *got* the man pilloried! Do you have to dance around him like a cannibal!
Well! Hear anything? Any sign of him?
How'd you like a punch in the nose?
What! Who?
That's what he's been doing since last heard from.
Whaddaya mean! What did *I* have to do with it? I don't blame the guy. Wow! Twentyfour hours in this town and nothing but dogfights! And things aren't bad enoughlast night I have to get a runaround from some wise dame
My, myyou sho' are pahwerfully upset, Mister McGannbut you' awfully cute.
Yeah? Well, when I get my hands on a redheaded doll with a southern lingo, I'll
I wouldn't wait if I were you.
What do you mean? What's going on?
The Head Man's writing a Bill.
A Bill! Not *him*!
What does he want to? What's *he* doing writing a Bill?
Why, he's a Senator, isn't he? I'm surprised at you, Mister McGann
One moment, friends, let's give the Senator a break. Now, where'd you say you studied law?
WellI haven't needed much law so farwhat I'd like to get first is a little common sense
Swell!
Ax?
A pet ideayou knowpension bill save the buffaloyou've got *one* notion you think would be good for this country, haven't you?
WellI have got *one* idea
Marvelous! And what would this camp set the Government back?
Ohnothingnothing. My idea is for the Government to lend us the moneyand the boys'll pay it back sending in a penny or a nickelno more than a dimeno, goshthe Government's got enough on its hands without
Great! The Government's putting dough in too many places *now*!
Yeah! How about it? You're a nature lover. Do you handle any of that sign language?
WellI can *manage*
Since the time of Adamsnot Washington.
How's that, buddy?
I saidI meanWashington didn't live to see it finished. Congress didn't move here from Philadelphia till eighteen hundred.
Ohyou're *sure* of that now?
Yes. Washington laid the cornerstone thoughwearing an apron for the ceremony that was embroidered by Madame Lafayette
Yes, *sir*. Let's *go* Henry.
I don't understand, sir! I don't know what the gentleman
The Senator has no voice in this chamber until the oath of office has been administered!
"I do solemnly swearthat I will support and defend the Constitution of the United Statesagainst all enemies, foreign and domesticthat I will bear true faith and allegiance to the samethat I take this obligation freelywithout and mental reservation and purpose of evasion and that I will well and faithfully discharge the duties of the office on which I am about to enter. So help me God."
"So help me God."
Senator, you can talk all you want to, now.
The chair recognizes the rather strong lunged junior Senator, Mr. Smith.
II'm sorry, sir. II have a bill
The Senator understands he is limited to five minutes?
Yes, sir
However, Senator Smith is still a member of this Body and as such has equal claim on the attention of the Chair
You were about to recognize me, sir
That is merely your *impression*, Senator. The Chair has yet to settle the question to its own satisfaction!
Order, gentlemen!
Mr. PresidentI stand guilty as *framed*! Because Section Forty is graft, and I was ready to say so. I was ready to tell you that one man in my stateMister James Taylor was putting that dam through for his own profit!
UhMr. Presidentyou and I are about to be alone in here, sir. I'm not complaining for social reasons, but it'd be a pity if the gentlemen missed any of this. Mr. PresidentI call the chair's attention to Rule Five of the Standing Rules of the Senate Section Three. "If it shall be found that a quorum is not present, a majority of the Senators present," and that begins to look like me"may direct the Sergeantatarms to request, and if necessary *compel* the attendance of the absent Senators." Mr. President*I so direct*.
Ring the call to quorum.
"We hold these truths to be self evident, that all men are created equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable Rights" Welllooks like the night shift's comin' on.
The Senator will please suspend until order is restored in the chamber.
Well, nowI wouldn't know about that. Mr. Presidentwhat happens to me in the morningI mean about my having this floor to go on babbling?
If the Senator permits this motion to recess he will not have the floor in the morning to babble or anything else, unless he is recognized first by the Chair.
Just for the fun of it.You see the one that makes it back home in the fastest time, I am going to enter in the nationals.
Wonderful!
Sure.
Well, we *must* see a lot of you, Senator. Come, Father.
Howhow do you do, Miss Paine? II apologize for looking like this II have to be going now
How are the pigeons?
Finethey're fine. Oh, Miss Paine, II want to apologize what the papers said I said about youthat wasn't true. II would never say a thing like that.
Did you hear, Father? He didn't mean it when he said I was beautiful.
Ohyou are!
Then you *did* say it.
NoI meanyesthat is
Well, goodbye, sirand thank you again. Wellitit was nice seeing you, Miss Paine
Goodnight, Senator
II'm awfully glad to bethat is, it was nice of you to Uhhow's your father?
Splendid.
Uhthat's good. Anduhyou?
I'm splendid, too.
That'sthat's splendid.
And how's your bill, Senator?
Oh, the bill. OhsplendidI mean II just can't seem to talk in this suit. I'll tell you a secret. It's brand new.
Well! You don't say!
It's just as well to tell youbecause if we're going to get off on the right footI meanin case I act sort of strangeit's the suit.
WellI
Funnier things have happened. Ma says when Pa was courting her, he acted strange for months. Didn't make senseor anything. And one day, on a hunch, Ma said: "Clayton, so help me, you talk like a man whose collar is too tight to bear." "Not the collar, Mary," he said, "my shoes." "Well, for land's sake," Ma said, "Take the pesky things off!" Which Pa did, an' they were engaged within a week.
You're not going to take your *suit* off!
No! No! Gosh. See, there you are! I'm not making sense!
Tell us about yourself, Senator! Hear you got a Boy's Club back home! Any ideas? Going to make things hum in the Senate, huh?
Hold on, fellowsI'm not used to more then one question at a time
Ah! That's more like it! What?
Wellfor a couple of years nowI I've thought it would be a wonderful thing to have a National Boys' Camp out in our State
A camp! Well!
You seeif we could take the poor kids off the streetsout of cities a few months in the summerlearn something about Nature and American ideals
*Gentlemen*! Gentlemen are supposed to believe in something decent. Instead of twisting facts and making a joke of everythingwhy don't you tell the people the *truth* for a change?
The truth! Well, the man wants the truth! "What *is* truth?" asked soandso, and turned away!
That's what I saidthe *truth*!
Whoa! Hold it! Pipe down! Come on, nowthat's enough of that.
If you thought as much of being honest as you do of being smart!
What is it?
Office ofSenator Smith?
*No*!
The man downstairs said number
No!
What's your name?
JJefferson Smith.
Isis something the matter?
Oh, nono! My dear *Senator*it may be customary out on the prairie to take French leave of people and not be heard of again for five hours
GeeI'm sorry about that, Missyou *are* Miss Saunders, aren't you?
Yes, I'm Saundersand this is Mr. Moorea member of the press. Meet the *Senator*, Mr. Moore.
Pleased to meet you, sir.
Gee, I'm sorry. You see, it wasn't until I was fairly well along in the bus that I realized
Did you saybus?
One of those sightseersyou know. You see, Igosh, I've never been called absentminded or... but there it was all of a suddenlooking right at me through one of the station doors
There *what* was?
The Domethe Capitol Dome
big as lifesparkling away there under the sun. II started walking toward itand there was a bus outside andwellII just naturally got aboard
Most natural thing in the world!
I don't believe I've been so thrilled in myoh, and that Lincoln Memorial! Gee! There he isMr. Lincolnlooking right at you as you come up the steps sitting there like he was waiting for someone to come along
Wellhe's got nothing on me.
Now, if you're ready, Senator, we can start for the hotel. I'll *see* that you get there.
YesI think maybe you'd better.
Whose statue is that?
I wouldn't know in the *day time*.
The Capitol Dome! Lighted up!
Youuhyou better relax, Senator. You'll be plumb wore out.
Tell me, Miss Saunderswhat time does the Senateuhwhat do they call it?
Convene?
Convenethat's ityes. I got to pick up some of those parliamentary words. I imagine a fellow can get pretty lost in the Senate without 'em
With or without 'em. Twelvenoon. The Senate convenes at twelve o'clock.
Goshthat'll be something! You know what I better do in the morning?
No. What had you better?
Go out to Mount Vernon. It'd be a sort of fine thing to dosee Washington's home just before walking into the Senate for the first time don't you think?
Oha wonderful thingyes. Get you right in the moodyesyes.
No, geeI couldn't stay here
You *couldn't*?
I meangoshI wouldn't be comfortable in aII haven't got clothes and things like thatandI couldn't keep pigeons *there*NoI I justjust wouldn't be
Go aheadpunch.
Punch?
I had a lot to do with that little press conference last night
Well, then, II *thank* you, Miss Saunders! Nothing better could have happened. Yes *sir*, Miss Saunders, we're going right ahead with it!
We're going right ahead with*what*?
Why, the Billthe Billto make a National Boys' Camp...
One moment, Senator. Do I understand you're going to present a *Bill*?
Sure! A Bill. Senator Paine and I decided it was the one way in the world I could make myself
Pardon me. Senator Paine decided this *with* you?
Yes. Sure. It was his idea. *I* should have been the one to think of it
My dear Senator, have you the faintest idea of what it takes to get a Bill passed?
I knowbut youyou're going to help.
If I were *triplets*, I couldn't. Look, Senatorlet me give you a rough idea. A member has a Bill in mindlike youa camp. Right?
Right.
Fine. Now, what does he do? He's got to sit down first and write it up. The where, when, why, howand everything else. That takes time
Oh, but this one is so simple.
I see. *This* one is so simple
And with your help
Oh, yes. And *I'm* helping. Simple and I'm helping. So we knock this off in recordbreaking time oflet's say three or four days
Oh, just a day
A *day*!
Tonight.
Tonight. LookuhI don't want to seem to be complaining, Senatorbut in all civilized countries, there's an institution called *dinner*!
Ohdinner. Yes. Well, I'm hungry, too. I thoughtmaybewe could have something brought inyou know, like big executives who eat off trays. You see, we've got to light into this and get it going
Uhhuh. Well, dinner comes in on trays. We're executives. And we light into this. It is dawn. Your Bill is ready. You go over there and introduce it
How?
You get to your feet in the Senate and present it. Then you take the Bill and put it in a little box like a letter boxon the side of the rostrum. Just hold it between thumb and forefinger and drop it in. Clerks read it and refer it to the right committee
Committee, huh?
Committee.
Why?
That's how Congressor any large bodyis run. All work has to be done by committee.
Why?
Lookcommitteessmall groups of Senatorshave to sift a Bill down look into itstudy itand report to the whole Senate. You can't take a Bill no one knows anything about and discuss it among ninetysix men. Where would you get?
Yes, I see that.
Good. Where are we?
Some committee's got it.
Yes. They give it to a *sub* committee, where they really give it a going overhold hearingscall in people and ask questionsthen report back to the bigger committeewhere it's considered some more, changed, amended, or whatever. Days are going by, Senator. Daysweeks. Finally, they think it's quite a Bill. It goes over to the House of Representatives for debate and a vote. *But* it's got to wait its turn on the calendar
Calendar?
That's the order of business. Your Bill has to stand *way* back there in line unless the Steering Committee decides it is important enough to be
What's that?
What?
The Steering Committee.
Do you really think we're getting anywhere.
Yes. Sure. What's a Steering Committee?
A committee of the majority party leaders. They decide when a Bill is important enough to be moved up toward the head of the list
*This* is.
Pardon me*this* is. Where are we now?
We're over in the House.
Yes. House. More amendmentsmore changesand the Bill goes back to the Senateand *waits its turn on the calendar again*. The Senate doesn't like what the house did to the Bill. They make more changes. The House doesn't like *those* changes. Stymie. So they appoint men from each house to go into a huddle called a conference and battle it out. Besides that, all the lobbyists interested give cocktail parties for and againstgovernment departments get in their two cents' worthcabinet membersbudget bureausembassies. Finally, if the Bill is alive after all this vivisection, it comes to a vote. Yes, sirthe big day finally arrives. Andnine times out of ten, they vote it down. Are you catching on, Senator?
Yes. Shall we start on it right now or order dinner first?
Pardon?
I saidshall we get started *now* or
Yessure. Why not? You don't mind if I take the time to get a pencil?
No! Go right ahead, Miss Saunders.
Thanks very much.
And a *lot* of paper!
that's the main idea, Miss Saunders. The United States Government isn't going to buy or build this camp just lend us the money. You've made a note of that, huh?
Yes, Senator*twice*.
Uhhave you? Did you ever have so much to say about somethingyou couldn't say it?
Try sitting down.
I didandand I got right up.
Now, let's get down to particulars. How big is this thing? Where is it to be? How many boys will it take care of? If they're going to buy it how do they make their contributions? Your Bill has to have all that in it
And something else, too, Miss Saunders the spirit of itthe ideathe
On paper?
I want to make that come to life yes, and lighted up like that, too for every boy in the land. Boys forget what their country meansjust reading "land of the free" in history books. And they get to be menand forget even more. Liberty is too precious to get buried in books, Miss Saunders. Men ought to hold it up in front of themevery day of their lives and say: "I am freeto thinkto speak. My ancestors couldn't. I can. My children will."
Wellgoshthatthat isn't "particulars," is it?
But you've just taken care of the spirit all right.
Well, anyway, it's *something* like that And it *is* important. Thatthat Steering Committee has *got* to see it that way. And I'm sure Senator Paine will do all he can He's a fine man, Miss Saunders, isn't he? He knew my father, you know.
He did?
We need a lot like himhis kind of characterideals.
Uhgetting back to this, Senator
Yes, yes
Now, this camp is going to be out in your state, of course
About two hundred of the most beautiful acres that ever were! Mountains, prairie land, trees, streams! A paradise for boys who live in stuffy cities You don't know that country out there, do you, Miss Saunders?
No.
I've been over every foot of it. You couldn't have any idea. You'd have to see for yourself the prairiesthe wind leaning on the tall grass
You meanhere?
Baltimore. Pure citydweller.
But you've had beautiful country all around you. You've just had to life up your eyes!
Citydwellers never do thatfor fear of what might drop *in* 'em.
Have you always had towork?
Since sixteen or so.
I take it youryour parents couldn't uh
No, they couldn't. Father was a doctor. The kind who placed ethics above collections. That speaks well for Father but it always left us kind of Could we get on with this, Senator?
It hasn't been easy, has it?
No complaints.
ButI meanfor a womanAndyou've done awfully well
Have I?
I never met anyone moremore intelligentor capable. II don't know where I'd be on this bill of mine without your help
I don't see where we are *with* it.
No! Gosh! I better get moving here, Miss Saunders Everybody else calls you just plain "Saunders." Why can't I?
Go right ahead.
Saunders. That's better. Good morning, Saunders. Hello, Saunders. How's the bill coming, Saunders?
Terrible, thank you.
Yeah. Yeah. Well, anyway, we've got "Saunders" settled. Maybe that was my trouble all along. YEs, *sir*. I'm all ready to go now What's your *first* name?
Why?
Wellnobody calls you anything but Saunders.
I also answer to whistles.
Youyou've *got* a first name, haven't you?
LookI think we ought to skip it.
All right. Sure. Just curious. The picture popped into my mind all of a sudden of a pump without a handle or something
Well, if it's all the same to you
I know. It'sViolet.
It *is* not!
Abigail.
No!
Letitia.
No!
Lena.
No! Stop it!
I've got more. You better tell me.
You win. It'sClarissa.
Clarissa. Oh. Uhhuh. Well, Saunderslet's go
Now, *Susan*that's really a *pretty* name
Susan! Susan Painethat's beautiful
And a beautiful woman, toodon't you think?
Yes. The most beautiful I think I evergee Saywe're *never* going to finish this thing! Now, here we go, Saunders. I'm going to talk faster'n you can write
UhWillet Creek. It's just a little stream
In Terry Canyon?
Youdon't know it, do you?
No
You couldn't. You've never been out there, you said.
No, I haven't. I guess I thought the name was familiar. By the way, you discussed with Senator Paine where the camp was to be situated and everything?
Wellno. I didn't. Why?
Nothing. I just wondered. No *reason* to take it up with him. "about a quarter of a mile on either side of Willet Creek"
Yeah. This land to be bought by contributions from the boys. You have that. Money to be
What do they? Who are all those?
One of the plagues on members of Congressofficeseekers, cranks, people with pet bills. Get my son into West Pointor *outta* West Point. I've got a scheme to put people to work. How do I get rid of cockroaches? Some woman's composed a hymn to replace the Star Spangled Banner. Want to hear it?
Nonot today! Boy, I feel like a house afire! Saundershow did I do?
Great.
II don't know how I got it out. My heart was right up here all the time I wonder what Senator Paine thought of it?
Must have been tickled pink.
GeeI hope so. What's all this?
Contributions from boys who read about your camp.
Already? All these letters?
Oh, those are only local. Wait'll they start pouring in from all over the country.
Do you mean alllooklook we'd better open them upsee what they say herelook at the moneywhat does it say"Dear Senator Smith, I would like to come to your boy's camp and I shine shoes at the station and here's nine cents." Oh, isn't that wonderful. Look and he signs it. "Yours truly, Stinky Moore." Isn't that marvelous? Sayhave I got some paper here?
Second drawer.
Good! I'm going to be pretty busy tonight
Not another bill?
No! Letters. I've got to write to the Rangers and MaandI'm bustin' with news! Why, I've introduced a bill! MeJeff Smith. I got up and talked in the Senate!
Do you want to dictate them?
The letters? Goshno. I couldn't talk letters. I've gotta scratch 'em out. And sayI'm going to tell Ma all about you. If I tell it right the first thing you know you're going to get the best jar of preserves you ever tasted.
Thanks a lot.
Oh*Saunders*!
IIgee whizI didn't thank you!
Don't mention it
I mean it. Iwithout you, I could't've
Yesright here. Just a second Miss Paine.
*Who*! Miss! Is that? Why didn't you? Holy smoke; Hhello... Yes, Miss Paine... How how are you, Miss Paine...? What?... Escort *you* GeeI mean*sure* *yes*! I'd be. Reception for a *princess*! Gosh!... Thanks, Miss Paine. Yes. II'll be there! Goodbye, Miss Paine. Did you hear that?Escort Susan Painereception for a princess! Imagine her calling measking *me* !
Get your hat, Senator. We've got a lot to do between now and tomorrow
Wow!
I know. Don't tell me. It was a wonderful party. Your suit went over big. And she looked beautiful, and she gave her hand when you left her and said"Thank you, Mr. Smith." Oh, but it was the way she *said* it. You like to fell through the floorHorseradish!
Saunders!
And you're writing Ma all about it. And your pigeons will carry the message of love. And the first thing you knowSusan Paine'll get the best jar of preserves she ever tasted!
Are you drunk?
Hello.
Saunders
Well geehowhow've you been, Saunders? II haven't seen you in . I supposenow that you're married
I'm not.
No. That nightIwell, *you* know I was pretty. NoDiz is aa sort of brother, that's all
That's funny. I thought all along GeeII'm glad to see you. I *thought* of youI meanI wanted to talk to someone andwell Mr. Lincoln hasn't much to say SaundersI'm not fit to sit up in the Senatehaven't you heard?I robbed boys of their pennies and dimes!
What are you going to do?
II don't know. II'm afraid they've got me licked.
It might save some of the pieces, Jeff. It would leave a doubt about the whole thingabout you. Might blow over, this way.
Yeah. I see. Wellthat's about the only thing to do. Don't you think?
Well, I guess it's a chance.
Yeah. I guesssometimesSenator Paine must be right. Sometimes you you got to compromise a little And if you say so too, Saundersif *you* think that's the thing to do
I *don't* think that's the thing to do! No! I think what you ought to do is*fight*!
Wait
What you *have* to do is fight!
ButI've done everything I
I don't care *what* you've done! Don't quit. Don't grab a measly chance like this to save a few piecesother men couldbut not you. As long as you lived, you'd remember you ran out and threw this country of yours to the jackals!
OhSaunders
Jefflistenremember the day you got here?what you said about Mr. Lincoln?that he was sitting up therewatchingwaiting for someone to come along? Wellthat was *you*. Someone with a little plain, decent, uncompromising *rightness*to root out the Taylorsyeah, and really light up that dome for once. This country could use some of thatso could the whole drunken, cockeyed world right nowa *lot* of it! And when the right man comes alongno matter *what* the oddshe can't *ever* quit! A little fellow called David walked out with only a sling shotbut he had the *truth* on his side
Saundersif there was *any* way
We'll *find* one! Only throw compromise out of the windowstick to Jeff Smith, the man who first came to this townget up and *fight* and we'll find *some* way. I don't know where we'll wind upbut the flag'll be flying!
Yay!
Hurray!
Where do we go from here?
To a hard night's work, son. Come on!
Jeffwaitthey want you to speak!
Not *me*! Joseph Paine is the man they ought to be listening to! Come on!
Well. I hear you've been right on your toes since you got here. Pitching right in. Lots of people took you for dumbbut they're wrong. You're smart. In fact, *I* think you're smart enough to understand a situation when it's explained to you
Like what, Mr. Taylor?
Well nowjust to take an example putting up a damon Willet Creek. As I look at itthat dam's going to do the people of our state a lot of good
Yes, so I was told, Mr. Taylor, but
But you have some objections here and there. And maybe right, for all I know. But the point isthere's no sense stopping the whole works now specially after some men have worked hard for a long time to put this through
What is your interest in this, Mr. Taylor?
Mine? Whynaturallywhatever benefits the state is mighty important to meowning a lot of its industry newspapers and other odds and ends. And if I thought you had the welfare of the state at heart, like myself for instance, if you were to turn around and help a project like this along instead of standing in the way why, I'd say you were a man to watch. For a fellow your age, you'd be in a spot to make a great start in life. If you liked businessyou could pick any job in the state and go right to the top. Or politics. If you like being a Senator. No reason why you couldn't come back to that Senate for the rest of your life.
Can't you?
You meanyou tell these menand Senator Paine what to do?
Yes! I've told Senator Paine for twenty years
You're a liar!
Good evening, sir. I was just making some Governor Hopper!
WellI'll go to Halifax!
Oh, now
Jefferson
Yes, Ma?
Excuse me for interrupting, Governor, but that plaster's gonna harden any second, son.
Gosh! You see sirI was fixing some plaster for a cast on Amos' leg he's always chewing 'em off. I'll only be a minuteif you'll excuse me, sir
Jerry! Blackie! Queenie! Let's have it quiet, fellows!
Now, now, now! It's all right, Governor.
Now, now, nowthat isn't going to get you any place. Get a firm grip, Ma!
Satan's in this little fella tonight!
Sorry about this, Governor. But it won't take a minute. You were saying something in the other room, sir
Now, Amos, now What?
What?
Hello, Jefferson.
Hello, Ma. Clarissa, Ma. She'll be stayin' a while
Fine
And Senator Paine too, Mawe'd like to have him
Certainly would, Joseph.
How's Amos, Ma?
Just fine.
We'd better see.
Well, it isn't much, but if you insist, here's this week's.
"Boy Stuff." Why, printer's ink runs in your veins, Jeff. You're just like your father.
Thank you, sir.
Even to the hat. Same old dreamer, too. One look at you and I can see him, back of his old roll top desk, hat and all, getting out his paper. Always kept his hat on his head so as to be ready to do battle. Clayton Smith, editor and publisher, and champion of lost causes.
Yeah, Dad always used to say the only causes worth fighting for were lost causes.
You don't have to tell me Jeff. We were a team, the two of us, a struggling editor and a struggling lawyer. The twin champions of lost causes, they used to call us.
Ma's told me about it a thousand times.
His last fight was his best, Jeff. He and his little fourpage paper against that mining syndicate and all to defend the right of one small miner who stuck to his claim. You know, they tried everything, bribery, intimidation, thenwell
Yes, Ma found him slumped over his desk that morning...
Shot in the back. I was there. I can see him at that old roll top desk, still with his hat on... still with his hat on...
I know. I suppose, Mr. Paine, when a fellow bucks up against a big organization like that, one man by himself can't get very far, can he?
No.
I mean, sirif I'm going to stay in the SenateI ought to know what I'm doingat least, I ought to try to study the Bills that are coming up
The *Bills*? Jefflet me advise you as your father wouldpolitics is a businesssometimes a cruel business. In your time here, you couldn't even start on those Bills. They're put together by legal mindsafter a long study. Why, after twenty years, I can't understand half of them myself. No, really, Jeffin your own interests
Well, thenII don't feel I can stay, sir.
Jeff, lookdidn't you say something to the papers about wanting to create a National Boys' camp? Were you in earnest about that?
Yes, I was
Well, why not do it? There's a job for you. Get a Bill started to accomplish itpresent it to Congress it would be a great experience
Senator Paine, if I could do just that one thing while I'm here, I I'd feel that I
What's to stop you? Saunders will help you with it
I will, sir! I will! II don't know how to thank you. I knew, if any man could help me
Nonsense, Jeff.
Thank you, sir. Thank you for your time.
Herewhere are you running off to?
Well, I'm sort of anxious to get back to the office
I'm sorry! Gee! I hope
That's all right, my boydon't bother
Gosh! Welllooks good as new. If there *is* any damage, I'll
Good as new! It's quite all right
Wellgoodnight.
Goodnight, Jeff.
Goodnight, Miss Paine.
I may not know much about a lot of things, sirbut I know that Willet Creek country like a bookandand I tell you, Senator Painethere's something *wrong* about this dam why, there isn't a foot of water in that creekit's dry four months out of the
Jefflistenthis was all taken up in the State Legislature and approved they're going to divert waters from up above
Butthere are a hundred other places in the state that *need* the water. BesidesI talked to Kenneth Allen, who owns some of that landand he didn't say anything about a dam. No I'm sure, sirthere's something wrongand II won't vote on this thing until I get a lot of questions answered
Jeff! You're trying to understand in a moment everything about a project that took two years to set upthe reasonsthe benefits
Yesthe *benefits*! What's a man called Taylor got to do with this?
Yyes.
Mr. PresidentgentlemenII have risen to a painful dutyto say that, out of evidence that has come to my attention, I consider Senator Smith unworthy to address this body!
Yield *how*, sir?
Will he yield for a question?
Ah, now, that's better.
Will he *yield*?
For a *question*.
Does my colleague's piece concern Section Forty of the billa dam on Willet Creek?
It does!
Every *aspect* of this matterthe gentleman's attack on that section everythingwas dealt with in the committee hearing
Mr. President
I wish to ask the gentlemanhas he one shred of evidence to add now to the defense he did not giveand *could* not give at that same hearing?
I have no defense against forged papers and
The committee ruled otherwise! The gentleman stands guilty as charged. And I believe I speak for all the members when I say that no one cares to hear what a man of his condemned character has to say about *any* section of *any* legislation before this house!
Will the Senator
I will not yield, sir! This same man Mister Taylorcame here to offer me a place in this Senate for twenty years, if I would vote for a dam that he knew and *I* knew was a *fraud*! But if I opened my mouth against it, he promised to break me in two! And I stood here one day and triedI *started* to open my mouth and it all came to pass. The long, powerful arm of Mister James Taylor reached right into this sacred chamber and took me by the scruff of the neck
Mr. President! A point of order!
Mr. President
Mr. President
He has imputed to me conduct unworthy a Senatorand I demand he be made to yield the floor!
Mr. PresidentI did not say that Senator Paine was one of those Congressmen I saw. If the chair please, I will deny that Senator Paine *saw* Taylor or even knows him
I *did* see Taylor! And I was in that room!
Yes, sir, I yield for a question.
The gentleman has said repeatedly that he is speaking to the people of his State. He has been waiting, as he so fancifully puts it, for them to come marching here in droves. Would the gentleman be interested in knowing what those people have to say?
Yes, sir, you bet I would.
Mr. President, have I permission to bring into this Chamber evidence of the response from my State?
Please, sir!come with me!
No, Jeffplease!
I say it's *your* parade, sir! You've *got* to come!
Where were you?
Toto a receptionuhfor a princess I forget her name
Mr. President!
Mr. President!
I addressed the Chair first, sir!
I am about to ask for a roll call on the passage of the Resolutionwithout further delay. The Senator can have nothing to say at this time that would not be either in bad grace or
Will the Senator yield?
For a question!
Has the gentleman the effrontery standing there convicted and in disgraceto try to force the postponement of that bill?
For one week!
Is he fully aware that this bill has been months in both Housesdelayed and delayedmillions will be without food and shelter until its passage public works to relieve unemployment will be at a standstillgovernment agencies will be forced to suspend ?
Will the Senator yield for a question?
I yield.
In view of the gentleman's touching concern for the Senators, would he permit a motion to recess until the morningat which time he could continue to educate this august body with his profound babblings?
Washington!
Yeah, for the fifth time, Senator Washington.
My pigeonsI better see about my pigeons.
The porter's got them. They're coming.
Just a minute, I better make sure.
Boy! My head's like a balloonfor two whole days. I never knew there was so much American history.
Here they areI got them. They are all right.
Well, that ends that crisis. This way, Senator.
All right, Senatorlet's get these bags and the livestock together
Look! There it is!
What? Who?
You should hear our Ranger Band rattle that offif you want to *hear* something! Good evening, Miss Saunders. Good evening Mister McGann.
H'ya, Senator. II've sorta been looking for you
You have? Will you come in a minute, Miss Saunders.
UhSenatorI thought you and me might go out to dinner togetherand grab off a few monuments.
Oh, I couldn't tonight. Thanks a lot.
He's a newspaper publisher I know and
What makes you think he's got *anything* to do with it?
Saunders saidthis whole thing was *his* idea to get graft!
Gee, I wouldn't appoint an old twerp like Horace MillerTaylor or no Taylor!
Taylor! May I ask what *Taylor* has to do with it?
Well, he's still running the show, ain't he, Dad?
Emma! I will not have conversations of this sort carried on by the children at dinner!
That's easy. Jefferson Smith.
I beg your pardon?
When Jeff gets through with Taylor, Pop
When Jeff gets through with Taylor Quiet! What do you mean by breaking in here? Get out! Get *out* of here!
I *thought* I heard... Yes?
UhJefferson Smith's residence?
Yes. Come in.
IsuhJefferson Smith at home?
Certainly. Step right in.
Wellit started with a little mimeograph sheetand it's just grown out of all sense and reason
Excellent! Excellent! My boy, I'm convinced our State has a great debt of gratitude to you
Maybe you'd like to come along and watch, Governor? Jefferson's done a wonderful job with that leg.
Why, of course.
A pet shop?
Well, it sort of got to befrom Jeff just pullin' splinters and things
I just can't, sonnot the head and tail both!
Uhcouldcould I help?
He's the greatest *American* we got, too, Dad. Can tell what George Washington saidby heart. An' "Boy Stuff's" got the swellest stuff in it.
What stuff?
No, *sir*! You couldn't do better, Dad.
Than what?
Jeff for Senator.
Emma! Will you *please*?
A dirty frame!
Emma!
What's the matter, Dad? Is it getting you down?
Is *what* getting me down?
Gosh, Pophead of the Boy Rangers!
Oh, a *boy*!
I did. What about it?
Well, Jeff put that out himself.
Himself!
"Boy Stuff." That's the name of Jeff's magazine. He prints it. Lookhere's oneoh, it's great *everybody* reads itall the kids in the Statea million of 'em. Look, Poplet me read you a
Peter, I'm in no mood to hear childish prattle!
Nownowpleasethat's quite all right. Relax, boys
Thisthis is a great honor, sir. I I
Not at all. I've come to pay you a personal and officialand I might saya *tardy* tribute, Mr. Smith, for your recent heroic conduct.
Oh, now, I'm afraid that's been exaggerated some
No. No. A signal service to the State. Yes, indeed. And not only that but uhI've heard of your excellent work in leading and guiding our youth
Wellthat's not work, sirthat's fun.
No doubt. No doubt. And this fine little paper"Boy Stuff"with, I dare say, an *enormous* circulation in the State.
WellyesI was sayingthe State should reward you
Aw
And it is in my power to confer a very signal honor upon you. In my official capacity, therefore, I
Ma! Hold him!
Thanks, Governor*yes*! Do you mind? His headMa'll take the tail.
Thehead?
Just get one hand against each ear therekeep his face straight up.
What were you saying, Governor? Sorry.
I said, sirin my official capacity as an honorary gestureI appoint you to the United States Senate!
Look here, Jimif you and Joe are going to gab about this appointment *any* longer, I'm going ahead and see those committees!
You'll see those committees when we're finished!
Yes, Jim.
One minute! Just one minute!
Happy, we've got the man. Horace Miller!
Horace Mill!
Happy, for reasons there isn't time to go intoit's got to be Miller! We've given you the man. Now write the ticket. Come on, Joe. Come on, Chick.
Now, wait fellowsgreat Heavens. I've got to see those angry committees firstfeel them out a littlework for harmonyharmony.
They put up *their* candidate? Who?
Henry Hill.
*Henry Hill?* That crackpot? That longhaired! Why, you should have killed that so fast!
II couldn't, Jim. Those men were
We can't help *what* they were! Forget 'em!
Jim, that bunch is out for blood. If I throw Horace in their teeth now
I said forget 'em! Horace Miller goes to the Senateand that settles it!
I *won't* send Horace Miller!
*You won't?*
I *won't* let you stand there callously and perhaps wreck my whole political future!
*Your* political future! I bought it for you and made you a present. And I can grab it back so fast it'll make your head spin. You got a nerve to stand there and worry about just *your future* when we're in this spot! The man is*Miller*.
a *boy ranger* a squirrel chaser to the United States Senate!
Jimthe answer to a prayermanna from heaventhe man *we want*and the votes *we need*
What!
Joe*you* know what I'm talking about. The perfect man. Never in politics in his life. Wouldn't find out what it's all about in two *years*, lets alone two months. But the important thingand this was the genius of the stroke*it means votes*!
But you went ahead and made this appointment without asking me
Jimwhen the lightning hit, II just
*But you never asked me*!
OhJim!
Boy Ranger! The answer to a prayer. Manna from heaven! Didn't know the time of day!
Will you please tell me *exactly* what he's done?
Yes! He's about to blow the whole machine to smithereensand *you with it*, Mr. Governor!
Me! Jimhow?
You couldn't understand! Listen, Ten Thumbs, I'll be on my way to Washington in half an hour. Whatever happens, I'm all ready for this Ranger of yours. Never mind how. You'll get your instructions from Ken Allen here. It isn't anything you have to do. I wouldn't trust you to lick a stamp. Allen'll do it himself. You just use your *high office* to help him get it done. Understand?
Yyes, Jim.
I doubt it! Come on, Ken.
Yes, yestell them I'll see them immediatelyimmediately! I can't hold them off! They want something to say about this appointment. Ten to one they've got a man.
Relax, Happy. Jim said to wait.
I *can't* wait, McGann! You go into that room and tell Jim Taylor and Joe Paine that I give them *one more minute*
*You* tell Jim Taylor.
Washington! Always discussing the problems of Washington. Nobody ever thinks of the Stateand my problems! I *will* tell Jim Taylor. It's high *time* I told him a thing or two!
Terrific! A born stooge! Horace'll perform like a trained seal.
Jimif I fling a party man like Horace in the face of those angry committees
He's batty!
Listenthe simpleton of all timea bigeyed patriotknows Washington and Lincoln by heartstood at attention in the Governor's presence collects stray boys and cats
Ohoh.
He's the hero of fifty thousand boys and a hundred thousand parents. Look at these congratulations pouring in! I tell you, gentlemen, by this one statesmanlike act, I have
Are you ready for him, Bill?
All set. Foley's rooms in the Senate office buildingnice, big clean desklot of Senator stationery to write his little boys onand Foley's secretary, Saunders, to make it look like the real thing
Good. Are the newspaper men at the hotel?
YupSweeney, Flood, Farrellwaiting for you
Fine. The first thing to do is present Mr. Smith to the pressin the *right* way. Hurry him along, Bill.
How do you feel, champ?
All right, why?
Your name's spreading like wildfire out hereyou are the winterbook favorite to get on the National ticket.
Oh! Go away.
I knew it! I knew a night's rest wasn't possible in this house! Hubert!
Wha? Yes, sweetheart Wha?
That infernal phone!
Yes, yesphone, phone Aan outrage, petan outrageI'll look into this HelloJoe!What!No! Not really! Terrible!
What is it?
Yes, Joe, yesright away.
What is it?
Sam Foleydead!
Great saints!
Of all the times! Of all the times! Two months to the end of his term and Foley has to go and die on us
Whom are you callingin the dead of night?
Taylor, my dear.
Can't that wait, Hubert?
No, nobelieve me, petthis is *most* urgent Hello, hello. Is Taylor there? Governor Hopper. Quickly, please
This isn't a home, it's the crossroads of the world!
Now, now, Emma, dearyou mustn't forget we have been chosen by the people of this commonwealth to
Save that for the laying of cornerstones, Hubert! Oh, that morning you looked in the mirror and saw a statesman!
Now, pet Jim!
Dinner, Hubert.
I'll bear that in mind... What? Oh. Dinner. Petmy stomach couldn't hold a bird seed.
We're waiting, Hubert.
Really, my dearI don't feel like a thing.
Nonsense.
Nonsense. Why don't you listen to your children for a change? You might actually learn something?
For instance, how to run the affairs of government? No doubt my children could make this appointment *for* me with the greatest ease!
I do *not* want a Senator. And I do *not* want any more of this nonsense! Emma!
Why, I think it's very sweet of the children
Otis!
That settles it! I will not be attacked and belittled by my own children in my own home! My nerves are strained to the breaking point!
Emma! I'm a man at the end of his rope.
No wonderwithout your dinner.
Emma, which is itHorace Miller or Henry Hill?
Well, your children are very bright and *they* say Jefferson Smith.
Sure. Sure. I'll hang a light in the steeple. One if by landtwo if by sea!... Okay! Dizyou won't believe it. Daniel Boone's *lost*!
No!
How do you *like* this! You don't suppose that ranger met up with some kidsand took 'em for a hike!
Thator he's out blazing trails. He'll show up.
Suresure. He must have a compass with him.
Getting on to dinner, isn't it, pal?
I give that Trail Blazer five more minutes to show up *five more minutes*!
Wellwho d'you take this timePaine, Bill, Carlor McGann?
Heyyou're into me for a buck already. I sayMcGann. Shoot the whole dollar.
Okay. For the dollar, I give you McGann *and* Bill and Carl. I got Paine. Hello... Oh, yes.
No, not yet, Senator Painenot hide nor hair of the man. You mean to say the boys haven't?
Eight to five Little Boy Blue is plastered.
Well, why don't they try the police get some blood houndsor Indian guides
Tell me why!
Well, because you're doing all right at the minute.
When Foley died, why didn't I clear out? How many times, did you hear me say I was fed up on politics and? But *no*I let 'em talk me into staying. Secretary to a leader of little squirts. Why? Because I need the job and a new suit of clothes.
Would you settle for a husband?
What's this, Diz?
That old standing offer from Diz MoorePoet of Washington Correspondents.
Huh?
You knowMrs. Diz Moore.
Ohthat again. Yeah.
I would cherish youand stay sober.
Diz, you're a swell playmatebut. Maybe if I saw you once with your hair combed, or somethingorno, noI don't think even that would do it
Well, if you're sure it wouldn'tno use combing my hair for nothing.
Nodon't do it. I'm sure. The truth is, Dizthere's no man I've seen yet ormust be something wrong with me. I've been feeling low for weeks.
You got worms.
What! Who?
You knowlittle wormsambition.
Yeah. Should have seen me seven years agowhen I came to this town. *Now* what am I?chambermaid to the Pied Piper of Jackson City; *Honorary* appointment! Scratch this thing an you'll find they wanted a dope here for two months.
I'm still asking myselfwhat is he animal, vegetable, or mineral? A Senator! A United States Senator! I thought I'd seen everything but why, he doesn't know what time it is, Diz! When I think of myself sitting aroundplaying straight for all that phoney, patriotic chatter *me*, carrying bibs for an infant with little flags in his fistsno, I can't take it, DizI'm throughI quit!
Suresurewait a minute nowsimmer down
Will you go chase an ambulance!
Whadaya mean*right*?
Kidwaitwhat do you think you're going to do?
Get my *whole* fall outfitand quit this job in style!
Now, you've got more sense than to put Nosey onto this guy!
Waitwait. Let's seewatchdog McGann he's bound to move right inget him out of the way first Pardon me, friendI've got some telephoning to do!
Sit tight, Diz. The show commences in just a minute.
What show? Would you mind telling me what's coming off here?
Certainly. Now there's the principal actor in our little play.
Ah. One of the supporting characters.
Who?
That gorilla in Man's clothing McGann.
Oh, you meanPuss in Boots.
Yes. Mostly "Puss." Oh, the *other* prominent character in the play.
The Silver Knight. Soul of Honoron a tightrope.
What do I play?
You playleft field.
Frankly, kidare you goofy?
DizDon Quixote with bill is going to get to his feet in a minute and speak two important words*Willet Creek*. When that happensif my hunch is rightthe Silver Knight will fall off his tightrope and Puss will jump out of his boots.
Did you like the first act?
Yeah. What about the second act?
That's taking place outside now.
WellI stuck my foot in it again at the President's press conference today How come so early? Get the day off?
They decoyed the little General off to a tea party to keep him out of the Senate.
Well, well YeahI got smart and thought I'd slip one over on the old man in the press meeting. I said, "Mr. President, about the monopoly investigation" And he jumps right in and says, "Diz, if you were sitting in my chair, would you answer the question you're about to ask?" He had me.
I don't mind *who* gets licked in a *fair* fight, Diz. It's these clouts below the belt I can't take. Sicking that horrible dame on himwhen he's goofy about her
What dame?
Paine.
Ohyeah
He isn't going to hurt enough as it is. *She* has to twist a knife in him, toothe regal jackass! "I'll turn my glamour on him," she says
Forget it, kid. What's it *to* you?
Nothing. I'm just sayingI might be able to lie, cheat, stealand I'd still tear into a guy I saw kicking a dog. Not that *he* is, by a long shot
Okay. So what? Stop worrying. I've told youthe dopes are gonna inherit the earth anyway
I've wondered, Dizmaybe this Don Quixote's got the jump on all of us. I've wonderedmaybe it's a curse to go through life wised up like you and me
Now, look, kidif we're gonna wonder, let's go down and do it over a hunk of steak. Come on, snap out of it. Diz Moore that rarest of companionsis here at your side. To genteel crime, kid.
And to Don Quixote!
Why do I always laugh at that?
"There's more light here," he says
Drunks are funny
Yeah. Funny
Yeah.
Yeah. Some of my best friends are funny.
Every time I think of it, I get a laugh, Diz.
My friends?
Old Don Quixoteman of the people Smith
Waiter!
followin' Miss Susan FassPass aroundhis little heart poundin' awaythe sound of angels' wings in his ears.
Now, you've gone and let Don Quixote in here again. I told you to keep him out!
Shut up, Diz.
Mind, now! Keep Don Quixote out of here!
And I got him all dressed up, too to go way up in a balloonso they can drop him a long waymake sure they break his heart. Why, not all the Boy Rangers in the world, working night shifts, 'll be able to put HumptyDumpty together again
Nowhow'd HumptyDumpty get in here?
Do you know how I felt, Diz?
No. How'd you feel? Quick.
Like a mother sending her kid off to school for the first timewatchin' the little fella toddling offin his best bib and tuckerand you sink in the middlehoping he can stand up to the other kidswon't get his feeling hurtandif you could only spare him the knocks he's gotta take Saywho started this?
*I'm* just waiting for a street car
Wellcut it out. See? Who *cares* anyway?
I apologize.
*All right*, then. After all, what's it to me? So they *drop* him out of a balloon. All I care isI don't want to be around. See? Squeamish. See? That's what I am. No, sir. I don't have to take it. Won't be a party to no murder. I'm gonna quit. I'm through.
Again? Good idea.
Diz
Yeah.
How about getting married?
Good idea. When?
Any time.
Tonight?
Okay. You don't mind?
I'll cherish ya.
Youyou've been a good egg, Diz. Maybe we could clear out of this townget to feel like *people*get the habit of lifting up our eyes live like we just got out of a tunnel.
Tunnel?
You've never seen prairie grass with the wind leaning on it, have you, Diz?
Is the wind tired out there?
Or angry little mountain streams and cattle moving against the sun. You haven't seen any of that, have you, Diz?
Have *you*?
No.
Do we *have* to?
No! I can't think of anything more sappy!)
Well, let's get going.
Where?
We're gonna get married.
Yeahthat's right. Diz
What?
I case you don't knowI want to give ya a chance to back out if you don't like it
What?
My first name'sClarissa.
Yeah, I know. That's okay.
Don't say "okay," Diz. Say you think it's beautiful.
OkayI mean
You don't know a name offhand you like better, do you, Diz?
Nonot offhand
Nothing likeuhSusanor anything like that, huh?
Susan? Nah!
I won't take it! See? I won't be party to murder. See? Steering a poor dope up blind alleys for that grafting Taylor mob is low enough. But helping that dame cut him up in little pieces besidesnobody's gonna make me do that. No, sir.
You said it!
I'm getting out of there. Right now, Diz. Right now. Bonus or no bonus. I'm gonna clear outa that office everything I ownmy extra hat everything
Hey! We're gettin' married!
Right noweverything I own!
Welllet's dig up the preacher, kid.
Huh?
You know, we're getting married.
Take me home, Diz.
He's cooked! They'll drum the poor lug out of that chamber tomorrow as sure as I'm! And now they're all down on him. Yeahmy press pals, toohe's a bad eggstill water running deep. Boloney! It's the frame of all time! When I see a phoney like thismy journalist blood boils I wanna *fight*! Look, kidrack your brains, will you? Haven't you got any confidential stuff on that mob? I'll write my arm offI'll blow Taylor and his
I've told you ten timesif I had anything they couldn't bat down in a second, don't you suppose I'd've been up in that hearing yelling murder! Surehe was cooked the night I sounded off like a fool and spilled the whole works!
Thenin the name of kindness to dumb animalswe can't let him walk into that Senate tomorrow and take a terrible punch in a nose! A couple of us went up theretold him all he could do was beat itresignclear out. Buthe's in a dazehe's been hit by a ton of bricks. Just says, "I haven't done anything. Why should I resign?" He might *listen* to *you*
Why me?
Come ondon't pull that. You know you'd give your right. What are you staying away from him for?
You don't think he'd want *me* within fifty miles, do you?after the exhibition he saw me give! Did you see his *face*?
All I know ishe said to me tonight "What does your wife think?" My wife. Thinks we're married
Well, then, that's great! And that's a great place to leave it! It's no use *my* barging into this now and
The war's on!
He's a houseafire!
Dizget what he says to the people back in that State. It's up to you and the boys. Keep those wires hot. Fire away, pal!
Diz!
Kidhe thinks he's talking to that mob at home, but not a line we've writtennot a word he's said from that floor has gotten into that home State.
What!
Not a word! Taylor's sewed up every paper. They're tossing out everything that comes in over the wires!
Freedom of the press! Mr. James Taylor blindfolding a whole State Wait a minute! If that's how he wants to play *I'll* get through to that bunchI'll get plenty of words into that, State! Come on, Diz, get that stuff you've writtenlet me have it
Yes, sirbig as life. Been there some time now.
Yes, sir. All right, boyslet's go.
What's he bringing pigeons for?
What for? Why, suppose there's a stormall lines are downhow you gonna get a message to Ma?
Positively not in the station! Gone!
I'll brain that guy! Wellcall Paine call Saunders
And while you're at it, get me a bed!
Let's send out a pigeon!
Blow a bugle!
what possible explanation can you offer for this charge beingas you say"trumped up" against you!
It was done to stop me from talking about a section of the Appropriations Bill!
It was?
Yes! This was how I could be put out of the Senate and out of the way! They even *promised* me that if I
And you say you never signed this contract with Mr. Allen?
I did not
You've never *seen* this contract.
Never.
But you did *talk* to Mr. Allen about that and?
II discussed it with himyes because Iyou see, I've always had this camp in mindbut I made no contract with him!
Thenthis is *not* you signature, Senator?
Looks like it, but
But it *isn't*?
It couldn't be.
You are saying, in effect, that this is a forgery?
I'm saying I didn't sign it!
Here you are, Senator. Not a bad desk, either. Daniel Webster used to use it.
Daniel Webster? Sat here? Saythat man was a great orator.
Give you something to shoot at, Senatorif you figure on doing any talking.
Not me, sonny. I'm just going to sit around and listen. What's this?
Calendar for the day. You'll find the Senate Manual in the drawer. Anything else you want, just snap for a page.
Where's the Majority Leader?
The Majority Leader? Right over there. And that's [ ] the Minority Leader. They're both pretty good in the clinches.
Uhhuh. And where's the Press Galery?
Right up there over the Vice President's chairthe four in the front row represent the four big news services. You've met the press bunch, haven't you?
Oh, yesthey're fine peopleregular people.
Look out for those fellowsthey tell the truth about yousometimes. That corner over there is reserved for guides and sightseers who come in for five minutes to rest their feet. That section over there is reserved for Senator's friends. The front rowthe empty oneis for the President and White House guests see that old couple over there they've attended every session for the last twenty years. Over the clock back here is the Diplomatic section. They and the page boys are the only real class we have in this place. The rest are mostly people who come here like they go to the zoo
Those busts up thereall around the wallwho are they, sonny?
All the exvicePresidents. You can get tentoone around here if you think you can remember their names. The VicePresident presides over the Senateyou know that. It's how he earns his pay. Ohover there, Senator on the east side of the Chair we still have the old snuff boxes with real snuff in them if you like snuff.
Thanks very much, sonny
I'll take your hat into the cloak room.
Herelet me give you a Boy Ranger button.
Swell. Thanks very much. Good luck, Senator. Keep your left up.
Where to?
Are you sure you got my bag in?
What do you think? I left it on the curb?
I'm sorry, I'm a little nervous. It's my first time in New York. Just a minute.
I came to New York to visit my youngest daughter.
And where is she?
She would have come to the airport to meet me  she wanted to  but ... but, she just started a new job and, well, I guess no one drives here.
So, you come here all by yourself?
Uh, yes. My husband passed away recently ...
... Oh ...
... And the children thought I should take a trip.
Yeah.
I'm from South Dakota. Where are you from?
Moscow.
Ohhh. Do you know the East Village?
Oh, yeah ... yeah ... it's a hellhole.
You mean it's dangerous?
Nah, not dangerous. Not that dangerous. Not during the day.
This is oneway street. You go down the block to the middle.
This way?
Yeah. Not far. You will be fine. It's still day.
I see. How much?
Fortyfive all total.
Fortyfive? I thought it was only supposed to be thirty?
Thirty is base price. Tolls, tax, tip ... it all adds up.
Who is it?
It's Marika. Is Paula there?
She's at work. I'm her mother.
Oh. I thought today was Saturday.
I'm sorry. I had a wretched night.
Oh. You need a cappuccino.
And there was this number on my phone bill that I didn't recognize. Calls made at three and four in the morning. So, I called the number ... and a woman answered. And I ... I hung up. So, then I followed him. Just like in the movies. And I found out that he has a wife and a little girl living in Brooklyn. We had been going together for almost a year.
Men ... they're all the same. Our pastor in Sioux Falls was caught with his wife's sister.
Really?
Oh, it was such a big scandal.
What happened?
Poor man had to leave town. And I hear that other women came forward.
You know, you ought to come out to South Dakota some time and meet my son, Steve. He's single.
What does he do?
He's an organic farmer.
Oh. Well, that would be a ... change. Thank you, Mrs. Peterson. You have a very reassuring voice.
I wonder what they do in there? Don't they frighten you? They all look so ...
... Manly?
So, what do you think?
Well, once you're inside, it's nice.
You don't like where I live?
Well, when I walked up the block, I ... well, my word!
That's New York. It looks rundown, but it's safe during the day. You'll get used to it.
I wanted to ask you something. Those motorcycles across the street ...?
Uhhuh?
... What are they all doing there?
That's the Satan's Disciples' New York headquarters.
The motorcycle gang? Don't they deal drugs and rape young girls?
I've never had any problem with them. People say it's the safest block in the East Village. I just hope their motorcycles don't keep you up at night.
I just can't seem to focus on anything these days.
That's why it's good you came to visit me.
How are you doing sweetheart?
I'm good.
Dating anyone?
No, I'm working too much, I don't have time.
What about the fellow in those pictures?
What pictures?
You know ... ... whoops!
Mother!
Well, they were right out in plain view.
Behind the books.
But I was dusting.
I was seeing Aaron and there were some ... complications.
He seemed quite taken with you.
I don't want to talk about it.
You know, you never tell me anything.
That's not true. Besides, I don't want you dusting. I want you to see New York.
Don, this is my mother. Mom, this is my boss, Don Palmer.
Oh, it's so nice to meet you.
Mother, I ...
My daughter lives right across the street from the Satan's Disciples' clubhouse, and I was so worried about her ... so, I went over and introduced myself. And they were the nicest people.
What's wrong?
Mom ... I mean, it's amusing to imagine such a thing, but ... how many of those pills have you been taking?
Oh, that has nothing to do with it.
No, no, it's my fault. I've been pushing you too hard to do things on your own.
Mom, I need to talk to you.
If it's about the bikers, dear, I don't want to talk about it.
No, I had a dream about daddy. Do you think I'll ever meet anyone like him?
Oh, I hope so, dear.
You know that guy in the pictures you saw?
Aaron?
Yeah ... turned out to be a real jerk.
I'm sorry.
It's unusually quiet tonight, isn't it?
Mm hmm.
I think you should consider coming out and staying with me longer.
Oh, I don't want to be in the way. You've got your career and everything.
You wouldn't be in the way. I like having you around.
Dear, I was thinking. Why don't we go to Paris next year? I've never been. Your father, God bless him, wasn't much for traveling.
I'd love to.
Here you go. I think you should talk to Dr. Byrne when you get back about how much Valium he's prescribing. Okay?
At my age, I'm going to take any pill that makes me feel better.
Mother!
I can make my own decisions.
I love you, Mom. I have to run. You remembered to call the limousine service, right?
Mm hmm.
Well, bye. And have a safe trip ... and ... Paris in the spring!
Goodbye, sweetheart.
Oh, please, don't hurt me.
I just need to use the phone, lady.
Oh, let me get out of your way then.
What happened? Did you lose your keys?
Have a nice day.
Excuse me, sir. I just wanted to thank you for helping me get into my building yesterday.
Yeah, sure, no problem, you're welcome.
My daughter lives across the street from you people and she tells me that you keep this area safe. Is that true?
We like to think so, yeah.
And you don't deal drugs?
Who told you we deal drugs?
I'm just concerned about my daughter.
You don't have to worry. She's going to be fine. We're lawabiding citizens just like you.
What about yesterday? Kicking that poor boy?
That poor boy's a crack dealer from Alphabet City. We do not allow his kind on this block.
Is there something else I can do for you?
Well, I'd love to see inside your club.
You want to come inside?
Well, if you're not holding a meeting or anything.
<u>You</u> have humiliated me in public for the <u>last</u> <u>time</u>.
I doubt that. Besides, I can't help myself. I'm just a figment of your imagination.
Then you can learn to act normally. I had to!
Aw, come on. You know you love me. You're a masochistic pain freak. You <u>gotta</u> love me.
I am not. And I don't gotta.
You are too! Mooning over Julie when we could <u>both</u> be gettin' some o' this fine local action. It's not like she's gonna know. Out of town, under five minutes, and in a coma don't <u>count</u>.
Sorry. The women here aren't my type. Most of them aren't even my <u>species</u>.
Aaah, it's the same as always...poor mope's just wishin' he was me.
I've been trying to get through to the head guy  the nightmare god  what's his name?
My Fellow Americans. I have a dream. Let us boldly go where no man has gone before.
<i></i> I'm sorry, Kitty  what were you saying?
Come on, pal! It was a compliment! You'da done the same if you had the equipment!
THAT DOES IT! BACK IN THE PACK!
FORGET IT! NO WAY! I'M NOT GETTING 
I'm reportin' this to my union!!
<u>What</u> union?
The sidekicks' union! Me, Tonto, and Robin the Boy Wonder. You top bananas better <u>watch your</u> <u>ass</u>!
I left my phone number in your undies. Try not to lose it in traffic.
Sorry, Kitty! I'll be right back after I choke my monkey.
He's ninety. He's practically dead already. How come <u>he</u> goes back and <u>I</u> stay here?
Maybe he wanted to pick out his own casket?
<i></i> HEY!! HEY, YOU!!
<u>He</u> got an Eticket. Where's mine? <u>When do I get</u> <u>to wake up</u>??
Stu? Stu? Let's not disturb the nice Reaper.
I've been stuck down here for <u>months</u>. Somebody had better start paying attention, or I'm gonna  I'm gonna <u>kick ass</u>!
Let's not kick the nice Reaper's ass.
Y'call that art? Why, my threeyearold can paint better than that.
Like you'd know. You started out on the back of a napkin, you little...<u>doodle</u>.
How'd <u>you</u> get in there?
Stu... It's a <u>party</u>.
Mr. Hypnos  sir  I needed to talk to you 
Pact? Pact? NO LIFE SUPPORT??
Well  yeah  but that doesn't...<u>apply</u>. It was different then. I was <u>depressed</u>. My life is great now. I'm in love!
I'm so dumb! I <u>deserve</u> to die 
Mr. Hypnos, you run this place. I'm begging you. There's gotta be something I can do.
Fate worse than death! Well, it's been real, boss, but I gotta go buff up my resum. ANYBODY HERE NEED A FIGMENT?
Fine! Don't put yourself out. I'll go to the land of Death alone.
Stu, you have my <u>absolute confidence</u>.  DEAD MAN! DEAD MAN WALKING!!
<i></i> I've got one chance to get back to Julie, and I'm gonna take it  with or without you.
Hey. Aren't you gonna talk me into it?
No. Goodbye. Thanks for nothing.
You gotta talk me into it. You'll screw up on your own. I mean, a guy's gotta have a <u>sidekick</u>. For moral support! Wisecracks  snappy banter  <i></i> It's the land of Death, Stu, the Land of Death! Don't go in there without your comedy relief!!
All right. You can come.
OH, THANK YOU! THANK YOU! TH <i></i> Something went very, very wrong here.
Now we just gotta figure out how to get there.
He's taking her to the land of Death, right? So all we've gotta do is...hitch a ride! <i></i> Stop shaking! I'll protect you.
Oh, <u>sure</u>. Mr. Action Hero! Why couldn't I be Arnold Schwarzenegger's figment?
Where'd he go??
I don't <u>know</u>.
Stu...Stu...
IT'S NOT WORKING.
There's a thing here! There's a switch!
Stu...LOOK!
What?
Isn't that Lulu?
You saved my life, Monkeybone. I never would've made it without you.
Move it. We got exactly five minutes left.
It's just...now that I'm leaving, I feel like there's lots of things I haven't said. Who's gonna look out for you? Are you gonna be okay when I'm gone?
Oh, don't you worry. I'll be fine.
You've been a hell of a figment, pal. I sure wish I could take you home with me.
Awwww. Worried about my feelings, are you? Well, there's a new twist.
Don't joke around, little buddy. I mean it. I really do love y
Nothing for him! He's being repressed.
Is something wrong, Stu? You seem so tense.
Hypnos?
Yeah. To see if he could expedite my case. But I wait, and I wait, and...I'm starting to think I'll never see her again.
I'm so sorry, Stu. I <u>wanted</u> to tell you what was going on. I really, really liked you.
Kitty...<u>my</u> situation is really not important. The thing is, my girlfriend is now living with, and possibly engaged to, a demented monkey.
You're such a beautiful man. Look at you  stuck in this place, and only thinking of her.
Listen to me! Is there any way I can <u>warn</u> her what Monkeybone is up to??
Don't ask where I got it.
You can't do this! You'll get in trouble!
You're the only truehearted man I ever met. You find a way back to that girl of yours and make her happy.
How am I gonna get past the guards?
<u>I'll</u> worry about the guards. <i></i> OKAY, STU. SEE YOU IN A DAY OR TWO.
Go. Just <u>go</u>.
Thanks, Kitty, I'll never forget you for th
Oh, Julie...my poor Stu...my poor baby brother...
When'd you get in?
An hour ago. <i></i> I tried to prepare myself, but I didn't know he would be like, like <u>this</u>. I can't even bear to look at him... How about you? You're okay?
I'm fine, Kimmy. Fine.
I had so much I always wanted to say to him. At least he had a chance to give you the ring.
The ring...
Grandmama's ring. The <u>engagement</u> ring. He asked me to send it to him 
Kimmy, he doesn't know what's going on. He doesn't even know he's in a 
Please, Julie. This is not easy for me. Our father took a <u>long</u> time to die. A long time. It just about killed us all. And Stu and I made a pact that when our time came  we wouldn't let it drag out.
It's too soon even to  <u>talk</u> about that!
Give me a date, Doctor.
Kimmy! What's the matter?
This is hard for me, Julie...very hard...but it's been three months now, and... <i></i> I gave the order.
You want to leave? But Stu  you're a big hit! Everyone loves you!
They don't love me. They love Monkeybone.
It was you who got the standing O. It was you drawing on the belly over there...
That was <u>especially</u> Monkeybone. Come on, Doc, I don't want to be stuck here with this bunch of media creeps. I just want to be <u>us</u>. Home. Alone! <i></i> I have something I have to give you.
Can't you give it to me later?
Yeah, I <u>could</u>, but the thing is, if later got here sooner, it would be...better.
Look at this! He won't let us leave!
Who?
The monkey!! He's everywhere! He'll take over both our lives if we let him.
Stu  stop it. That monkey is <u>good luck</u>. You thought him up, and everybody loves him, and he's probably going to make you rich. So relax! Enjoy it!
I'm trying. It's weird, that's all. I never had any good luck, until I met you...what if it's all just another bad dream?
What's the "bad" part?
I might wake up.
<i></i> If you do, I'll be right there beside you. So face it. You're just going to have to be happy!
I am happy. It just so happens this is the happiest night of my life.
Did we just  <u>hit</u> something?
I don't think so.
Are you okay??
I'm fine, baby. We're all okay. We were lucky.
I'd better go report this...
Stu?
Julie?... Hey, you <u>are</u> a looker.
How was it? I don't recall.
It was great, baby. Let's get you to the ER.
Oh, Stu. Tell me I'm not dreaming.
Baby...you're asking the wrong guy.
What's the matter?
My <u>tail</u> itches.
Oh, baby, I can't believe you're back.
Home sweet home, huh? Actually, I was expecting something a little swankier. How much loot does old Stu rake in, anyway?
Meaning me, of course. I'm referring to myself. You have to assume Monkeybone would be a pretty lucrative franchise...
Baby? Why don't you just...rest on the sofa for a minute. I'll be right back.
Bitchin' good cake.
Stu, are you...feeling okay?
Sure. Why?
You're acting kind of...odd.
<i></i> In what way?
What are you watching?
Ohhh, nothing.
You sure this is...medically advisable?
Got a doctor on duty.
Well. As long as it's okay with Monkeybone 
Priceless! Priceless! This stuff just <u>kills</u> me!
I'm heading in to work, baby. Are you sure you'll be okay?
Oh yeah. There's just one thing I don't get. "Monkeybone Creator Awakens from Coma" that's a big story! That's front page news! But I can't find a <u>word</u> of coverage in this stinkin' rag! <i></i> Hey. Don't I have a TV show?
They only made the one episode. They've shown it about nineteen times.
I need a new PR guy.
And speaking of which, here's the light of my life, the pert and saucy Miss Julie McElroy.
I had to park two blocks away. Is something 
What's this about merchandising? You always hated merchandising!
Well, baby, I do, but to look at it from another angle...there's a <u>potload</u> of money here.
Stu? Is that you? Where did you <u>go</u>?
Me? Nowhere. I was asleep.
Baby, don't lie. I know you went out.
Not me. Nope. You must've been dreaming.
You're wearing a <u>topcoat</u>, Stu.  Where are your pants?
<u>Well</u>, Miss Smarty, if I didn't go out, I wouldn't <u>need</u> any pants. Now would I?
We'll hop a plane tonight. An island ceremony. An Abba Dabba honeymoon!
It looks so...<u>new</u>.
It is new. Why wouldn't it be new?
But the heirloom ring. Your grandmother's ring...
Heirloom? Huh? You want a <u>used ring</u>  ?
Boy, the nuts are out tonight. What'd that creep call you  ?
He called me "Doc."
Wait a minute. Stu Miley, right? Boys and girls ...Mr. Stu Miley, in the <u>house</u>! <i></i> This is an <u>honor</u>. We see a lot of nightmares down here, but yours are like <u>caviar</u>, man. You da <u>shits</u>!!
Mr. Hypnos, I saw a dream. My girlfriend was having it. She dreamed they were pulling the plug on me. She was watching me <u>die</u>.
Uh huh. And?
Well, I have to get a message to her. I have to let her know I'm <u>okay</u>. Until I can get out of here...
Kid  didn't they tell you about this party?
Tell me what?
It's a special kind of party. A <u>farewell</u> party. Do you...get what I'm saying?
Farewell? You mean  you mean I'm 
I think I...I'm about to... Am I mistaken, or don't I get to... Is there some...
Y'see, Stu, as I understand it, you made this pact with your sister...no life support?
Besides, Julie wouldn't...she'd never...
Actually, Stu, Julie doesn't get to decide. That's why she was having the nightmare. <i></i> They're pulling the plug at nine AM.
Nine AM! But that's  <u>twelve hours</u>.
Stu, I like you personally, I admire your work, but I'm just the God of Sleep. This is Death's bailiwick.
Maybe you could talk to Death!
Me? <u>Me</u>, go crawling to Death? My friend, it will be a cold, cold day in Las Vegas, Nevada, before I go crawling to <u>that</u> piece of 
Now Death is not what you would call a people person, like me. Death is a <u>putz</u>  and I should know. I'm his little brother.
You're Death's <u>brother</u>?
Oh yeah. Mr. Bythebook, StickUptheAss, My WayortheHighway Death. Believe me  over the course of eternity, you get pretty damned tired of <u>that</u> schtick. <i></i> So I need a job. He sticks me in this brokedown amusement park, with a buncha animals to run it. I'm supposed to be <u>grateful</u>?
Guys, I don't mean to be rude, but I only have eleven hours and fiftythree minutes to...
Oh, right. Cheating Death. There's <u>one thing</u> you might try. Only one guy in <u>history</u> ever pulled it off. Well, actually two. Actually, no, there was that other guy who...well, <u>very few people</u> have done it.
Hyp, I'll do anything.
Land of Death. How do I get there?
Kid, listen: <u>that's all I'm saying</u>. And you didn't hear it from me.
NO! DON'T YOU UNDERSTAND?? HE'S GOT MY ETICKET! HE'S GOT MY 
Sorry, Stu. It's all part of the deal. We've got <u>big plans</u> for that body of yours!
Sorry, Steve, maybe next time. And how's our new guest settling in  ?
YOU SET ME UP!!
Easy, pal! I was coming to congratulate you. It ain't easy snatching one of those Etickets. Steve here was the last guy to pull it off, and that musta been, what, 25 years ago...?
Why'd you do it? What'd I ever do to you?!?
It's simple, Stu. We need nightmares  lots of 'em. So whenever we can swing it, we send a guy up to stimulate the flow...a <u>nightmare maker</u>! Like Steve here. Poe. Rasputin...we've been doing this all the way back to Atilla and Genghis Khan!
But <u>why me</u>? Why'd you pick on <u>me</u>??
The monkey, of course. It was his idea.
Monkeybone...!?
Nobody wants to be a sidekick, Stu. So one day he comes to us  he's got a proposition. We help him get your body...in return he gives us all the nightmares we want.
You're nuts! I'm a comic strip artist! What's he gonna do  draw <u>really scary cartoons</u>??
Oh, no, no, no. Y'see, Stu, as it happens, that girlfriend of yours figured out the chemical basis of bad dreams. And she just whipped up a big old batch of nightmare juice!
Holy shit.
He's stuck in a loop  a nightmare loop. <i></i> Anybody here know what Oneirix is?
No. I want to give him <u>more</u>. I want to give him a massive dose.
That's not going to stop his nightmare 
I don't want to <u>stop</u> the nightmare, Hutch. I want to crank it up. I want to take it right off the charts. I want to <u>scare him awake</u>.
You know, Julie, even if this works  which it probably won't  that stuff is tricky. You don't know what it'll do to his brain.
What'll it do if they pull the plug?
The Nightmare Juice! It's gone! Somebody switched it for a beaker of grape KoolAid!!
KoolAid!? But who'd would want to 
Sorry, Julie  won't be a minute. Now Stu  I know you don't like the idea, but you really ought to talk to these guys 
Julie and I  we were just gonna go...
Go? There's a potload of money here, pal. You got three major toy companies...you got the guys from Burger God over here...
Burger God. The ones that found the pig hair in the french fries?
Never proven. They're ready to pop for a pre emptive endorsement. Kids love Burger God 
Herb, it's too much. It's all out of hand.
Do you know what kind of opportunity you have here? You gotta <u>strike</u>. I'm talking mansions. Lamborghinis. Champagne for mouthwash when you brush your teeth!
I don't want to be rich. It's just a trap!
Being rich is <u>not a trap</u>. That is a dirty lie perpetuated by rich people to keep the failures from killing them.
Herb. <u>I have to go</u>.
Why?
I got the ring. <i></i> Tonight's the night, Herb. Tonight's the night.
Oh my God...you're proposing?
My life was totally crappy, Herb, and she... fixed it. She made me happy. Which I'd never been. She loves me the way I am  <u>right now</u>. <i></i> I don't want everything to change. I don't want her saying yes to some big success. I just want her saying yes to me.
...In some weird way I respect that.
So here's my idea. We do a giveaway at the zoo benefit. We get a big piata. We fill it with Monkeybone dolls  <u>hundreds</u> of 'em.
A piata. That's a <u>great</u> idea!
What's the matter?
I think it's a pig hair. <i></i> How much is McDonald's offering?
Less.
Oh, here's something. The city zoo is kicking off a fundraising campaign. They wonder if you'd be willing to appear at a benefit.
How much?
Well, nothing. It's a benefit. But we could probably get <u>People</u> and <u>Entertainment Tonight</u> to cover it.
I get it. We could give the public the impression that we were doing something... charitable. Brilliant!!
And last...you remember Bill here, from the Bazoom Toy Company? He's got a little something I think you'll like.
You're really gonna pop the question?
Got the ring. Got the airline tickets. Soon as they break that piata, we'll grab a cab  and it's off to the land of palm trees and coconuts.
I can't believe you. You used to hate being the center of attention. Now you're proposing, in public, at a benefit.
Yeah, I was thinking...I mean, I'm a celebrity now, do I really want to get married? But on the other hand, if you're married, they can't testify against you.
Vital signs have stabilized. That's good.
Can you give us a realistic sense of my brother's chances?
He's held on this far. We can't do much but wait and see.
But these...machines are what's keeping him alive, is that right?
At the moment, yes.
Can you give me a realistic idea...of how long this is going to last?
Comas are unpredictable. He could wake up today, tomorrow, a month from now...
Honey, I have to clarify this. The thing is, Dr. Edelstein, my brother has an absolute <u>horror</u> of doctors  hospitals  needles  all of it 
Three months. <i></i> There's always some brain damage. But at three months...the chances of coming back shrink dramatically with every day.
I want him to have every chance, Doctor. We can certainly give it...three months.
You're mad at me. Great. You have every right to be. But we're both mad at Dark Town. We're both mad at Hypnos.
Oh, sure. Now you're gonna tell me it was all <u>his</u> idea. You were completely innocent 
I'm not going to tell you that. I wanted that E ticket. I wanted it so bad I'd stare <u>you</u> right in the face to get it  and I'd do the same again.
<u>Why</u>??
I have a girl up there. And I never  I should've  I just want to tell her I love her.
I'm a simple man. I'm just doing my job. I <u>enjoy</u> my job. Why does everyone want to make it difficult for me? Stealing tickets, switching bodies...it is <u>so</u> <u>irresponsible</u>.
Death, I'm trying to make things right. Take my soul. Turn me into a paper doll. But give me just one lousy hour.
Well  you'd need a body.
If it wasn't for that comic strip of yours, I wouldn't be doing this. But a good chuckle is darned hard to come by. <i></i> That one where Monkeybone stole the soap cake out of the urinal  I thought I would die.
Coming from you, that's quite a compliment.
<i>De nada</i>. Now, come here...bend over...before I change my mind.
Bend over?
DEATH!!
I dress up when I want to make an impression.  So how'd it go?
Fine, thanks. Saw my girl, said goodbye, everything's gonna be okay. <i></i> I guess I'm yours now.
Hey. Where's Monkeybone?
Back in your head, where he belongs. <i></i> No offense, Stu, but on your own you're kinda vanilla. I didn't want to send you back without him.
Back? You're sending me back?
It's irregular, but...I just love that strip of yours. I figure I'll take the "Family Circus" guy instead.
Death! Thank you!
Thank me next time you see me.
Chasing me  animals  horrible 
Animals? What <u>kind</u> of animals?
Yeah, I know  Picasso. <u>Guernica</u>, right? That's what everybody says  although personally, I don't see the resemblance. What are you drinking?
Uhh  martini?
Olive or eyeball?
Olive.  Where exactly am I?
Dark Town. Land of nightmares. I'm Bull.
Stu Miley.
Yeah, I've seen a few of your dreams. You're quite a celebrity down here.
Jeez, it all looks like bad latenight cable.
Sad commentary, huh?
<i></i> I beg your pardon?
I didn't say anything.
I was, uh, just getting ready to leave...
Yo, Jumbo. We got us some kind of <u>ventriloquist</u> here.
Hey, Stu, why so glum? Everybody loves a good humiliation nightmare.
Three months, Bull. Three months tonight. Three months since the accident  and I'm no closer to going home than I was then.
Aw, buck up. Have another 'tini.
I'm sick of martinis. I'm sick of the waiting, and the carnival rides, and watching people's <u>nightmares</u>. And of course, I need not <u>add</u> 
Now don't pick a fight. I'm staying over.
Oh, poor Buster. He hasn't been fed in a day and a half. Let me get some food...
Special occasion?
I don't know. I guess it was...
Who did this?
Stu. That was right about the time we met.
When he first came in to the sleep lab?
Yeah...before your time.
Jesus, honey...he always joked about you <u>curing</u> him, but I never realized what you cured him <u>from</u>.
He hadn't gotten a good night's sleep in years. The nightmares would wake him up, and he'd start right in painting... <i></i> That boy looked like pluperfect hell.
How do you get from <u>here</u>  to <u>there</u>?
Switch hands.
What?
I'm serious. It was bicameral disjunction  right brain and left brain out of balance. He was a rightie, so I made him switch the pencil to his left hand. Just to see what'd come out.
Monkeybone?
Lefthanded, he was <u>funny</u>. He'd been doing all this scary, intense work...then he found out he could draw this stuff, and make me laugh, and he liked that. <i></i> And then the nightmares just...stopped.
Wow  two guys in the same brain.  Which one did you fall in love with?
What's the maximum safe dose?
Most we've ever used is half a CC.
Five CC's.
The thing is, I'm responsible for the way he's acting. It's the nightmare juice. It's got to be.
Julie, that stuff probably saved his life.
I can't explain this, Alice, but I'm not so sure it did. It's as if...he's <u>not Stu</u> any more. The Stu I love is gone! <i></i> He spends all his time in the garage. He says he's...autographing.
"4/17: Subject, when unaware of observation, prefers to hold eating utensils...with feet. Successfully carves turkey roll holding eating utensils...with feet."
They had a case like that at Johns Hopkins. Wires got crossed between hands and feet.
Jeez, Bugsy. Ya like ta scared the crap outta me.
Just wanted ta say hello.
Know something Tommy? You're a mensch.
That a Jew compliment?
Best we got.
Awww... deep down I'm a bastard, but when ya got eight kids ya can't make enemies.
Guess so. Ya got a minute? I got somethin' for ya.
Take any one ya like.
Kinda early for Christmas, Bugs.
A Jew's gotta let his heart tell him when ta give his presents.
You're fuckin' crazy.
But only on purpose, Tommy.
This is nice. I mean it.
Yes?
I'm comin' for my twenty thousand.
Luciano is dead?
Open a window. Every newsboy in town's screamin' about it.
What a cozy little scene.
Kill them! Kill them!
What's it worth to ya, Boss?
Anything!
Anything ain't a very hard number.
One hundred thousand. No... three hundred thousand.
Now that's a hard number.
Know somethin'? This stuff's just kickthecan on ponies.
Shuddup.
Wanna know what I think?
Spare us.
I think these rich shits  no offense Bobby  are so dead below the waist that they gotta ride around all day swingin' at each other ta get their broads hot.
Those fucks can't leave each other alone. Maranzano and Masseria ain't gonna be satisfied until one of 'em starts a war.
Let 'em kill each other off! Why should we care?
There won't be any way to stay out of it.
Where's the stiff?
Come on. Be polite.
Sorry, Charlie. I gotta get my Johnson worked tonight.
Jesus.
Hell. It's been four days!
Forget it.
Fuck 'em.
Johnson's still on board. Even Maranzano won't screw with Nucky in Atlantic City. But everywhere else, we got nothing but problems.
I'll knock 'em in, Charlie. I can do it. Blow his fuckin' head off. Get rid of the bastard for good.
You wouldn't live out the week.
Masseria's scared. He might make our deal.
We can't sell out to those guys. They ain't businessmen!
So we're gonna knock 'em both off?
If it comes to that. Yeah.
Maranzano wants you dead.
Yeah. But he needs me alive.
Everybody's talkin' about ya, Charlie. First time anybody ever got took for a ride and lived.
Guess I'm just lucky.
That's just what they're calling ya pal. Lucky Luciano.
I'm a hard guy. I done more jobs than alla you combined. And I never said no. Not once. But dammit I don't understand why the hell we gotta kill our friends!
Because the world ain't big enough for the Dons. So we gotta choose between our friends and ourselves. It ain't the way I'd make the world, but that's the way it is.
Why didn't you tell me that Maranzano had made you an offer?
I turned him down flat.
And if I had known, I would have warned you to expect this. We could have prepared.
Masseria's been after me too.
Thank you for keeping me informed.
We were overdue to get hit.
You think this is a coincidence? Next week half your customers will be buying their Scotch, our Scotch, from Maranzano. In a month, he'll be in Scotland talking to my distillers, because you can't move product. I'll be out of business, and you'll be working for Maranzano.
We can operate around these guys.
Not by scurrying around like a puppies in a roomful of elephants.
Okay. I'm listening.
A hundred years ago Austria was run by a prince named Metternich. Austria was weak, and it's neighbors were strong. But they were ruled by passionate men, while Metternich was ruthless and brilliant. If one country got too strong, he rallied an alliance against it. He would lead all of Europe to the brink of war, then bring the enemies together and forge the peace.
Strategy.
Talk English. Okay? I did lousy at school.
The Big Picture.
That's just what I'm sick of. Everybody lookin' ta knock somebody off! Greedy for what you got. A bunch of fuckin' hogs at the trough.
So change it.
Bring order out of chaos. If you lead... they'll follow.
And what do you want out of this?
A peaceful and prosperous retirement.
Don Maranzano. Welcome.
I've heard so much about this club of yours. I had to come and see.
Good liquor draws a good crowd.
I must know more of you, my son.
Not a lot ta know.
Then perhaps you need to know me.
Don, I'd be honored.
Salvatore. My young Caesar. First me, Sallie. Then you.
The name's Charlie.
Mussolini is raping Sicily like every Roman before him. So our brothers are coming to America. Soldiers willing to fight and die. Men who know the meaning of honor.
Don, you talk about honor, but you mean vendetta. Killin' an' more killin' until nobody can remember how it all started.
And how many soldiers do you have?
I've got friends.
I have six hundred. Soldiers. And more every week off the boat.
An' Masseria's got seven hundred.
He's an animal!
He's the Boss of all the Bosses, and I respect him.
The Internal Revenue came to my offices. I turned over all my ledgers. They found nothing. Charlie, I am a businessman.
Sittin' around gives me the piles. You got a proposition?
We combine everything. You are my second in command.
What about the share.
You get fifteen percent.
I got partners.
Your Calabrian friend, I will accept. At least Costello eats pasta like us.
And the Jews?
Share with them as you wish. Do business with them on your own. But no filthy Jew will ever be a brother to me.
Tell me, my son. Why did you go with Giuseppe? He's not our kind.
I found that out.
We learn from life.
That's why I'm here.
Coming with me will be a delicate matter. We will work it out. But Charlie...
Conditions have changed. Some people have become too powerful.
I'll take care of the Boss.
If you give him the chance, Lansky will betray you like Judas.
I don't fuck my partners.
No worry, Charlie. I will kill them for you. No one will know.
At first, it will hurt you. But you will come to understand and we will be strong together.
You're fuckin' crazy. You're all fuckin' crazy!
Even the beasts of the earth know who rightfully reigns.
They do what I tell 'em.
Salvatore. Always holding himself above.
You and me both. Salvatore.
We must be friends, Charlie.
Keep my terms and I won't be your enemy.
The terms will be mine.
The guy doin' the job names the price. If you don't like it, you can kill Masseria yourself.
I will be the Boss of All Bosses.
What makes you think I give a damn about that Sicilian crap?
Tell it to the Calabrian. Tell it to the Jews.
You disrespect our tradition.
Boss, we got our own tradition. We call it treatin' your friends right, and not bein' a pig for every scrap of glory.
Forget it. That's past.
No matter what you say to me Salvatore, you are my bambino.
If ever I need a Boss, Joe.
Yeah. Yeah. I bet ya feed Maranzano that same line.
I like that.
Whatta ya mean, Boss?
Ya piss like a man.
I'm glad ya come.
What's with the banquet? This is supposed to be a private meet.
It's only us and Sonny. Hey, Sonny. Come on out.
You boys carryin' pieces?
You tryin' ta tell me something? I don't come to a meet with a weapon unless it's with an enemy.
See if these two are my friends.
You're a smart boy, Charlie, but there's somethin' you ain't learned yet. A man needs a family.
I know. When the storm hits, it don't pay to be caught outside.
I got a place for you. In my family... or in the cemetery.
Never threaten me, Boss.
This business is about taking risks.
Calculated risks. But Boss, this one don't calculate.
Tommy tells me that Capone's coming in from Chicago.
He's trying to make it.
He'll think something's wrong I ain't there.
He'll know you were smart enough to stay away, Boss.
What the fuck does that mean?
You know that if you come, we gotta invite Maranzano.
So fuck him. I don't care anymore. Let him come.
So he can talk to all the families behind your back? Maybe have his own meet at 3:00 AM under the goddamn boardwalk? No. You're too smart for a sucker play.
Where we headed?
Wassa matter, Mr. Big Shot. Don't have time for my business no more?
Boss, I got all the time you need.
I know about you.
And what went on your little party in Atlantic City. I got ears.
That little party's gonna make you a lotta money.
MONEY DON'T MEAN SHIT!
Didn't know you felt that way.
You and Vito are gonna pull that payroll job. Right now.
You gotta plan these things.
And I got it all planned.
If I wanted ta kill ya, I woulda done it long ago. It's not like you ain't given me reason.
I'm still the Boss of All the Bosses! And you'll do what I say!
So tell me when I ain't done it.
How can I trust you when you look at me like that?
You got no fuckin' choice. You might be able to stay alive, but you're never gonna win the war from these fuckin' rat holes.
Tell me, Charlie. Please.
Why should I go against you, Boss? Nobody can handle this business like you. Maranzano'll never know the crap that you forget. He's got no business bein' Boss. The idea makes me wanna puke. You're the Boss, an it's gonna stay that way.
What are ya thinkin'?
Joe Profaci. Carlo Gambino. Vinnie Mangano. Joe Bananas. They all gotta die.
You can't fuck with them. They're heads of families!
They're friends of our enemy.
Take one of 'em out, and they'll all line up against us.
Not if they all die at once.
Every successor will owe his loyalty to us. Together we take out Maranzano, and each family gets a piece of his operation.
A motherfuckin' peace conference.
We gotta talk in private. I got a friend in Coney Island who's gonna open his restaurant just for us.
But that's an hour's drive.
Lobster Fra Diavolo. Spaghetti with red clam sauce. Antipasto. And pastry that'll make you wanna go home and slap your sweet mama.
Ya did good. I ain't seen the Boss so happy in weeks.
Look at this boy. He hardly eats. Like that fella killed Caesar.
When ya got all that blood workin' in your belly, it ain't upstairs where it needs to be.
The kid just called me stupid.
Not stupid. Fat.
Shit. When I was comin' up, bein' fat meant ya had somethin' ta eat. Guy looked like you, people felt sorry for 'em. Right, Gerardo?
Sure. But ya got a deck a cards? I wanna play some Klob.
Come on, Charlie. We got business.
Couple hands. No harm in it.
One move pardner, and you're a dead man.
You can't kill me. You gave your word, Charlie.
So? I'll get Bugs ta do it.
Yeah. So who the fuck does?
Come on. Tell us, Shitface.
Come off it, Bugs.
Come off it, Bugs.
Benjamin.
We got exactly two choices, Maranzano or Masseria.
They don't give a shit about us!
What you mean? Tommy ain't done nothin'.
Maranzano will think Masseria ordered the hit, and won't have no choice but to start the war.
Why's it gotta be Tommy!
Masseria won't have any choice but to trust you. And as long as we keep the Boss alive, Maranzano can't win without you.
We're gonna change it, Bugs. Once we get rid of the Dons, the Commission's gonna rule. No more wars. No more vendettas. No more Boss of All the Bosses.
Yeah. And no more Tommy Reina.
You fellas got names?
Lansky. Meyer Lansky. And that's Bugsy Siegel ya got there.
Meyer just finished the books.
A million bucks. In the last six months.
Bugsy, you and I don't need to be in business with Maranzano. We got more jobs than we can handle. That's not the problem.
So what is the problem?
The minute we sell out to Maranzano, that bastard is gonna have you knocked off.
We'll figure out something.
I'm supposed to be at my old man's for Christmas dinner at eight.
At least Masseria plays by the rules. Maranzano thinks he's God, and the rules don't apply.
Without us, Masseria don't stand a chance, and he knows it.
Meyer.
It's nothin'. I'm gettin' married.
Married? To Anna? You ain't got her in trouble?
No. We ain't even...
Well, good. Woman like that you don't have to keep an eye on.
Guess I'm not a single type guy.
Whatta ya mean? It's great!
We're going to Atlantic City for the honeymoon.
I'll talk to Nucky. Get you set up like the fuckin' Prince of Wales.
I been thinkin'...
Good. 'Cause every time you start thinkin', we end up makin' money.
We need to put together a meet for the whole country. We all got the same problems. We could talk. Meet the guys we don't know. Lift a few with the guys we do.
Like a party for all our friends.
Italians, Jews, Irish. One big party. Course, some guys don't get along.
Like Don Maranzano.
And if we don't invite Maranzano, we can't invite Masseria. Guys don't wanna be choosin' sides.
I'll handle the Boss.
So we end up with everybody but the two Bosses, at our meet. We ain't sayin' we're the leaders, but we're leadin'.
How soon can we pull this off?
I'm gettin' married in six weeks. I'll already be in Atlantic City which is probably the best place to do it anyway.
Your honeymoon, Meyer?
Might as well put the time to use.
After all this time I'd think you'd know me better, Meyer.
It's not myself I'm worried about.
I'll do fine.
You're getting' 10 cc's
I told you twenty!
You bastards, I said twenty!
It'll just be a few minutes.
I NEED THE TWENTY!
Tommy Reina's gone over to Maranzano, but so far Masseria ain't lifted a finger,
The fat man's scared. Scared of us, and scared without us. Same with Maranzano. We gotta get their minds back on each other. This fuckin' peace is killin' us.
We can get the war started tomorrow, but it won't be pretty.
Who?
Tommy Reina.
Meyer, ain't anybody ever told you ya look more like a bookkeeper than a fuckin' mobster?
What's your problem?
It's just that Maranzano's the only bastard I ever heard brag about gettin' audited by the IRS. He came out clean, so he thinks his shit don't stink.
Is there a fuckin' point comin' up anytime soon?
Seein' he loved the experience so much, I think we outta give him the pleasure again.
Charlie!
I do this for you, and you'll leave me and my guys alone. Be the fuckin' Boss of all the other Bosses, but we are gonna be our own Bosses.
Come on, Charlie. We gotta have a top guy. Otherwise these wars ain't never gonna stop.
As long as ya got one top Boss, somebody else's always gonna be looking to knock him off. And that's war on top of war.
Who'll make the rules?
We'll make 'em, and we'll enforce 'em. All of us. Together. We all get one vote. Includin' me.
Charlie, I'm from the old country, and these American ways get me sometimes confused. You tellin' us you refuse the title of Boss of All the Bosses?
I don't care what anybody calls me, Joe. Long as it ain't to dirty. And if you fellas get together every year and say, "Charlie, we still want you to run things for us", I ain't gonna insult ya by sayin' no.
Julius Caesar never took no vote.
And maybe that's why he ended up dead in the streets of Rome.
Inside, they were talking of you.
I can just imagine.
No. They envy you.
For being a bootlegger?
For being a man.
You here with Bobby?
No. I'm here with you.
What's the matter?
I must be going.
Come on. It's Christmas. At least stay for breakfast.
I'm already late.
For what?
Luciano.
I was calling yesterday.
Something came up.
I needed to see you again.
Same here.
You're sure?
Why do you bother with perfume when you smell like this?
It's a mask.
You got something to hide?
It's too late.
Have you thought about this?
Why? You're the innocent one.
Guess I'm too confused to think.
You could have stopped him.
Ya never tell a guy about a broad.
So you all make the same mistakes?
Gives us something in common.
I booked passage to London.
London?
My friends have a country house we can use for a while.
If I look weak now, it's over.
I'm very sorry... I didn't...
Oh, God. Don't start actin' like a fuckin' wife on me.
A lot of shit came out of me in the hospital. I'm sorry you got hit by it.
You must be feeling better, if you're looking for sex again.
Would it be painful for you?
It always is.
Charlie?
I'm doin' business here!
But there's...
I'm gonna lose you, Charlie.
It'll all be over tomorrow. No more wars. No more killin'. Just livin' normal like everybody else. You'll be stuck with me for good.
A hundredseven bucks too much. Any kid who drops an extra dime is gonna be talkin' to Moliari.
Ya mean we're so rich we're broke?
Well...
Mr. Costello handles our business with the government agencies.
That's it.
I'm sorry, but I sleep better when I know I'm with the winning side.
We're gonna be the winning side. It's like Rothstein said about that guy in Austria. We're gonna use Maranzano and Masseria. Let 'em knock each other bloody. And then, when everybody's screamin' for peace, we step in to make it. What they're fight in' over, everybody will beg us to take.
I thought we just wanted to be left alone to run our business.
How much longer we gotta be shut up in this fuckin' sweatbox?
Long as Charlie says.
You ain't even a man yet.
That ain't what your mama said.
Where'd ya get this funny ravioli?
Ya ignorant Guinea, it's kreplach.
No disrespect, Tommy, but why would Mr. Arnold Rothstein wanna do business with bums like us?
Why ya always gotta go lookin' for a gift in the mouth of the horse?
I think Maranzano's talkin' a hell of a deal.
Sure, Frankie. Fuck me. Fuck Meyer. Fuck Arnold Rothstein who's made us all rich. All so you can be an fuckin' honorary Sicilian!
Does Maranzano have to kiss you on the lips before you'll take his goddamn money?
If he's gonna fuck me up the ass!
The deal's too good, Frankie
What are ya thinkin', Charlie?
But Maranzano's got the men and the brains.
Which is why he doesn't need us.
Bastard didn't even show.
He's hidin'. Word's out Tommy Reina's goin' over ta Maranzano.
Get word to Maranzano. I want a meet. Alone. On neutral turf.
Masseria's confused. He can't figure whether you're workin' for Maranzano, or gettin' ready to kill the bastard. So he's spreadin' the word that you're goin' after Profaci because it happened on his turf. I figure Masseria's gonna try to rub out Profaci, and pin it on us. Then Maranzano will have to kill ya.
You got men on Profaci's place?
We got our boys paintin' the house next door. Around the clock. We're gonna keep old man Profaci alive if it takes twenty coats.
Masseria's tryin' ta find a way around ya. But his patience won't hold out much longer.
How's Bugsy doin'?
Tommy Reina's hauntin' his dreams. But he'll do his job.
Mad Dog Coll's in town on a job.
Who hired the bastard?
Maranzano. Ta ice you.
They told me you wanted to talk about this Shane business.
You havin' any luck findin' out who did him?
Shane was a friend of yours?
He was around...
Lad, I'm a busy man. July's always a big month for murder. Fella named Barone turned up just this mornin', throat cut ear to ear. Black Hand.
When you're investigatin', how long ya keep at it?
It consoles the bereaved family ta see the perpetrator take his load of juice. We try to oblige.
But if ya can't catch the guys...
When the stiff's an Irish, the cops take it kinda personal.
Can't we get a couple whores over?
Fourtwentyeight.
What's that divided four ways?
Tommy Reina. Good pal. Better partner.
From your mouth ta God's ear.
He's got a line on the good stuff.
We could lose the deal!
If we have to.
When my money moves, I go with it.
I trust Mr. Johnson filled you in on the revisions.
Scotch is a very valuable commodity these days.
Mr. Rothstein, Can I be frank? You're a gambler, and I know you've had losses. I also know you could sell to Maranzano or Masseria for fifty G's, but nobody sells to those guys once. So if ya really got another buyer, and ya wanna welch, I ain't gonna beef.
I ain't mad. I ain't even surprised. But I can't let ya fuck me. On the other hand, if ya got needs beyond the thirtyfive, I'll advance it to you against our next deal on the same terms.
Could we step outside?
I got my partner in there!
I cannot bear to look at that hideous suit one minute more.
Their asses are here, but their fuckin' heads are still in Sicily.
Precisely. We are the true entrepreneurs, and Prohibition is the greatest opportunity we shall ever have. America is begging to be taken like an overripe virgin, but they're still fighting over the crumbs of Little Italy.
We'll start small. When we got 'em lined up, we increase the supply a bit at a time. Only sell the best stuff. And keep the price high, 'cause ya know how folks hate the taste of cheap booze.
An intelligent plan, Mr. Luciano, but listen to me well. It can be ruined in a single careless moment. Keep your feet on the ground and your high opinion of yourself under your hat.
Don't worry. I got friends to take care of that.
Are you frightened?
Why should I be?
I had everything. Once.
So what happened?
Life knocked me back.
I came into this world flat on my ass.
And now you have everything.
No. Not everything.
Up down. Down up. It's the same. You see things through both eyes.
I guess I am. Just a little.
What do you mean?
Scared.
Up here, Boss.
That ain't exactly been the lucky spot lately.
But from now on it's Lucky's spot.
Maybe you better hear what I got to say first.
Whatever you say, Boss.
No, Al. Whatever we say. We're all Bosses here. We don' need another.
Why should you be payin' me when we're all equals?
You scare me, Charlie.
Maybe that's why I'm the Boss.
We have a commission. If there's a dispute over territory, the commission decides.
Tell me something, Meyer. How can you get up at dawn to walk on the beach if you're on your honeymoon?
The commission don't decide how I spend my honeymoon.
Hey, I ignore my wife too. But on our honeymoon I paid attention.
BooBoo.
Not another word.
I'm Bobby Clowes. Kansas City.
Charlie Luciano.
You ever been near a meat packing plant? My father makes a couple million per, but the smell in his office is enough to make you puke.
Got the same problem with my pop  garlic. Nothin' you can do.
The goddamned bastards.
Tell me about it.
I remember reading a poem in college. "Sicily. Poor, noble isle...".
Poor, yeah.
But not you.
So Chicago's been good to ya.
I do right by Johnny Torrio and he does right by me.
Ya still owe me fifty bucks for the train ticket.
And a lot more. Can we talk?
Sure. What's with the brick wall?
Since Colosimo bit it, I gotta keep an eye out for his friends.
One fuckin' year ago I had ta hit you up for train fare. Now I can buy the fuckin' train. And I ain't even a fuckin' Sicilian!
But ya got a Boss.
Torrio ain't like them guys. He thinks like an American. You'd like him, Charlie. He'd like you.
Maybe. But he'd still be the Boss.
What you're sayin' makes a lotta sense. Ya know, if I keep on killin' people like I have, I won't have no more friends left!
You've got the public upset, Al.
But you know I never killed nobody that didn't deserve it.
When the people get so upset, our politician friends gotta listen.
What are ya tellin' me, Charlie?
We're asking you to go to prison.
But I've never served a day.
If it wasn't important for everybody, we wouldn't ask. We got friends in Philly. They can send you up for a couple months on a weapons charge.
Awwh, Charlie.
Minimum security. You'll have everything but broads.
There seems to be some confusion about your registration. I believe I can find you a place at the Ambassador. Many persons of the Jewish faith find it quite...
I ain't no fuckin' kike!
I'm sorry, sir. Our clientele is restricted to White AngloSaxons.
And I ain't no nigger either!
Sir, we do not use such names at our hotel.
You own a hotel, sir?
The Bismark in Chicago. You familiar?
Anybody see them?
Activating Power Scope!
How the heck?!...
What's going on?!
Six become one... the combined forces of the Ninjetti.
Strength in numbers!!
I am the mighty ape!
And I am the Falcon, Winged Lord of the Sky!
THREE SECONDS!!
LET'S DO IT!?
NINJA APE ZORD!
NINJA FALCON ZORD!
Don't you ever have anything nice to say?!
Well, if I did I certainly wouldn't say it to you!
Rrgh mmffpprr brghuh!!
How dare you?! Nobody shuts up Rita but me!
Isn't this just TYPICAL! We finally do somebody a good turn and just look what happens!
From now on it's EVIL, NO exceptions!
I hope those Rangers put that lousy lowlife out of his misery!
GO POWER RANGERS!
That was a CHEAP shot!
We couldn't have done it better ourselves.
Mordant, go with them and report back to me!
You know boss, I'd really like to help out but I've got this gastronomic condition which rules out all space trave
That's right. And then we threw one of them off a mountain and another one into a raqing river!
So they've been destroyed?
"Basically".
What do you mean "basically"?
Well... we were about to finish them off... when this huge monster came out of nowhere!
Did these sticks make a whistling sound?
How'd you know?
Dulcea! That miserable, manipulating loathsome shedevil of a WITCH!!
What is THAT!
Feast your eyes upon the exoskeleton of the barbaric HORNITOR! KEEP DIGGING. THE DREADFUL SCORPITRON SHOULD BE CLOSE BY. ONCE I HAVE MY ECTOMORPHICON MACHINES UP AND RUNNING, I SHALL ANNIHILATE ANGEL GROVE... AND THEN... THE WORLD
Taking over the world is one thing. It's finding good help to run it for you that's the killer.
You want me to place a few calls?
No offense, boss, but they might find you a little disgusting.
Yes, well, I suppose you'd know a little something about that. Not to worry. I'll ever so gently lure them in and mold them into an army of devils! And what better way to entice them ... than with a little Ivan's Ooze?!
But boss, what about their parents?
Ah, the old and doddering. I'm going to SCOURGE their puny minds, reducing them to ZOMBIE'S. And then I'll put them to work rebuilding my empire.
Simon says...
Quack like a'duck!
What!
You forgot to say 'Simon says."
THE BOYS ARE BACK IN TOWN!!!
GO IVAN!!
We never liked the cheesedongs in the first place.
Couldn''t stand them  lowclass all the way. And did you catch a whiff of their BREATH?! It's like having a conversation with a couple of ONIONS! Not to mention...
Hey, boss!
What kind of landing was that?! These clowns are a menace to the sky
As soon as we've taken over the world I'm gonna change my name to Sir Mordant. Or how about MAJOR Mordant?!
How about Major Moron?
Just shut your gap!
Did I say anything?
I'm outta here.
Wait for me!
GET OFF ME!
BUT I'M YOUR COUSIN!
SECOND COUSIN, THREE TIMES REMOVED. NOW GET OFF ME!
And how do we do that?
By learning the ancient art of Ninjetti. It is the Genesis of what you on earth have come to know as the Ninja. It is the perfect union of mind, body and spirit.
It's... an eagle?
Look closer.
... A falcon?
Tommy, you are the Falcon, Winged Lord of the Sky.
And how do we release the power?
The legend goes that you release the power with the power.
The Stealth Eagle is about to fly.
Ditto for the Swooping Swallow.
Be the eagle. Be the eagle.
Be the swallow. Be the swallow...
The earth was hurtling toward us at seven hundred miles per hour, and we knew at that moment that we were facing death straight in the eye.
We could smell it's breath.
Bulk... why don't we give Mr. Peep here a chance to think it over?
A stellar idea, Skull.
Here you go! No pushing!
There's enough for everybody!
Uh... that's classified, top secret, confidential, undercover information.
If we told you  we'd have to kill you.
There goes the neighborhood.
A real shame.
SKULL!!
BULK!!
... Not bad.
Listen, we appreciate your hospitality, but we really don't have much time.
Let's go after him!!
Ultra Ninja Megazord complete!
I'm in!
LET'S FLY!
IMPACT IN FIFTEEN SECONDS!
WE HAVE TO GET OUT OF HERE!!
FOUR SECONDS TO IMPACT!
WE'RE OUTTA HERE!
That's the only way to the Monolith...
We can take these guys!
... Nothing.
Release the power with the power.
NEW POWER COINS!!
OUR MORPHERS ARE ON LINE!
Two thirty three a.m.
Ryan's Comet!!
THREE DEGREES OFF THE COMETS TRAJECTORY!
GIVE IT EVERYTHING WE'VE GOT!
009843... 42... 41! WE'RE IN ALIGNMENT!
THERE'S THE COMET!
PTERODACTYL!
TRICERATOPS!
You okay?
I think so.
I am the wolf, cunning and swift!
I am the crane, agile and sublime!
Of course! The power is of another world. Another dimension.
WE'VE GOT TEN TRIACS BEFORE WE'RE TOAST!!
NINJA CRANE ZORD!
NINJA WOLF ZORD!
All systems go!
This guy is messing with the wrong teenagers!
It is said that to those who possess the Power... all things are possible.
Where did it originate?
In another time, another dimension. It was brought here long ago by the "Nathadians", a people who are now all but extinct. They built an impenetrable stone Monolith to store the power and keep it from their enemies. For thousands of years, beings from all over the Universe have tried to obtain it... ALL have perished.
I see... a fox
Close. Billy, you are the Wolf, cunning and swift.
It is said that once you've reached the power... you have only ten triacs to release it.
What's a Triac?
About twenty seconds in your time.
In a place that came to be known as Angel Grove.
The chamber has been accidently UNCOVERED! You must return it to the depths. or anyone should open it and Ivan is released!
To assist you I have retrofitted your helmets with new OptiScan devices.
Use extreme caution, Rangers. You are dealing with an evil here that is beyond ALL comprehension.
Alpha, my sensors tell me the Rangers were too late! Ivan is on his way here!
Hey, NOBODY enters the Command Center without a power coin!
... Alpha, I am deeply concerned about the Rangers...
I told them it was too dangerous, but they wouldn't listen.
... We must try to communicate with them.
By bouncing ultrahigh frequencies off one of the network satellites, I can send a longrange pulsar signal to within TWO FEET of the Rangers coordinates.
... I just pray we're not too late.
Ay, yi, yi! The Rangers are going to be CRUSHED!
Don't lose hope yet, Alpha!
Anybody see anything?
... Let's take a look over there.
SABER TOOTH TIGER!
WHITE TIGER!
Let's teach these vermin a few manners.
Activating Power Beam!
That's pretty bad.
Thank you, Dulcea. For everything.
Release the power WITH the power.
What does that mean?!
1600 m.p.h. and increasing!
Everybody hold on tight. We're gonna send this sucker into OBLIVION!
I heard that!
I'll be at the Observatory Sunday.
... What's happening to him?'
Outside of his time warp he's aging at a vastly acellerated rate!
I can hardly walk...
I've never been this sore in my life.
We've come all this way for a rock wall?!
There should be a way to open it.
Release the power with the power.
I've got it! We use the mirrors to reflect the light back into itself!!
SYSTEM MALFUNCTION!
OUR SEMICONDUCTORS ARE DOWN!
Is this... food!
They're called squirbs.
So how can we get to it?
The only way to obtain the power is to achieve the highest state of being...
He wants to know if you'd like a cube of sugar in your tea.
Ah... sure.
In the language of the Nathadians, "Nin" stands for "man", "jetti" stands for "animal". Ninjetti  man and animal, together as one. Now, put your hands inside the flame.
Yeah, right.
It will not harm you.
Wow. Sand.
Now tell me... what do you see?
Aisha, you are the Bear, stalwart and bold.
Stylin'!
Alpha. Is there any way we can defeat this monster? Any way at all?
... Perhaps there is a way... I have heard tales of another power.
It's far too dangerous. Zordon would never allow it.
If we don't try, Zordon won't survive!
Ay, yi, yi, yi. The legend speaks of a Master Warrior who lives on the planet Phaedos... This is the only person who knows the secrets of the power.
How can we reach Phaedos?
Rangers... I'm afraid you're too late.
What?!
Zordon... he's gone.
We've got him locked!
Speed?
He's on us!!
Wait a second... What time is it?
It's passing over earth as we speak! Trajectory coordinates are 009843.
Billy, that's BRILLIANT!
We get Ivan into the Comets PATH
WE CAN'T BREAK FREE!
IMPACT IN EIGHT SECONDS!
Voice activate.
Activated.
Program name?
Resurrection.
Describe program function.
Transmit copy of program via satellite north uplink.
Destination?
Tannereighteensixtwonine.
Checking connection.
Connection approved. Ready to transmit 
 Transmit now!
Access granted. Male or female?
Male.
Waiter, busboy, MaitreDe 
 Waiter.
Standard, modern, upscale 
 Standard.
Scanning body type.
Program name?
Resurrection.
Connect to public access.
Access established.
Select uplink for Federal Communications Office. Department of Enforcement.
Uplink selected.
Care to tell us how you came into possession of an illegal access program?
Look, I'm doing mute 'till I have a mouthpiece here who's on my side.
You don't need a lawyer. We found the program on your laptop.
Don't know what you're talking about.
Of course you do. And the only shot you've got of keeping your ass from sinking in a sea of shit is to tell me where you got this program.
What's so funny?
This. No point to it.
Why not?
Because you'll never believe me.
Try me.
It was just there.
There?
My uninet account. I log on. The program's there.
Just like that?
Just like that 
Don't know what you're talking about.
Of course you do. And the only shot you've got of keeping your ass from sinking in a sea of shit is to tell me where you got this program.
What brings you inside?
Cleaning up a mess.
Some things never change, do they?
I've got to get back.
Tanner.
Someone you have to get back to?
No.
I'm sorry sir, we need your debit card before we can issue a credit 
 Katie.
You went to my highschool?
No.
Then how do you know about 
 You told me.
What are you talking about?
Most nights you wake up crying. Never knowing why.
Who are you?!
We worked together on the inside. You were on my programming team 
 The inside?
Night City.
Identical. One's you. One's digital.
That's not possible. No one can do that.
Corporation can.
That's why they told you you can't go inside. They can't have you running into her.
Her?
You said we were on the same programming team.
Yes.
But I don't know anything about programming.
Once they digitized you, they added it.
Why?
It was a test.
For what?
To see how long it would take for me to realize.
Realize?
You weren't real.
And it meant something.
Yes.
What?
Way you kiss me.
I wasn't with you.
I know.
But you were with me.
Not you. A copy.
What's the difference?
I'm sorry.
Sorry?!
There was no other choice.
He had keys.
Of course the legend would like to think that. But no one has keys. Your maze was run.
Get some internal police there. Tell them to run a perimeter.
But have them wait for me 'till they move in on him.
Doesn't make sense. How the hell does some fucking teenager get to the keys?
Sorry, I just design the maze. Keeping the keys secure is your job.
Two maze runners.
Someone sends the kid a copy of the access program, then runs the maze at the same time the kid does, using the same codes.
Won't be time if he gets access 
 He won't.
He had access to the keys 
 Yes.
We can be there in fifteen minutes and rip him off the system.
Go!
You're jumping to conclusions.
He's not pluggedinto the system. He's in the fucking system!
Try harder.
Christoph had spinal cancer. His body kept rejecting gene therapy. He was desperate. It was him, it wasn't us 
 I saw the program.
Corporate fingerprints all over it.
Of course they are. Christoph was stealing every piece of code he could get his hands on.
And you weren't involved.
Because why the hell would you be interested in a program that allows people to live inside your machines? I mean how much profit could there possibly be from owning the universe and selling space in it to people who are dying, or people who are just GodDamned sick of this world 
 Come on, you know F.C.O. regs. Anyone caught with their R and D hand in the biodigitization cookie jar spends the rest of their life in federal penitentiary. It's not worth it.
The only way to eject it is from the inside.
You've got the keys, send someone in 
 Christoph changed the maze.
One condition.
What?
The truth.
What is it?
The Terrace. First building Christoph ever programmed for us.
A hotel?
It's not used for anything.
Christoph was a brilliant programmer, but very eccentric. He insisted it be kept vacant.
Why?
He wouldn't say.
Christoph was in charge of designing building modules.
That's right.
Then what's with all the staffing programs in his account?
Good question.
Be a hell of a lot easier to digitize a real person, then strip them down to a module you can use to make as many employee programs as you need.
Yes, in theory, I suppose that would work.
Who did he digitize?
Listen to yourself. Digitization. You know that officially that's a pure fantasy 
 Who did he digitize?!
What did he tell you?
The truth.
Not his style.
Katie was digitized.
Then you had her killed.
Why would I do that?
To hide the evidence.
We drugged her. So she wouldn't remember.
Try harder.
There was no need to kill her.
Then where is she?
Come on Tanner, think this through.
An interface attendant.
Where?
Times Square.
Need the disk back!
Insurance.
Insurance?
If she's alive, you get it back.
Where you pluggedin from?
New York.
I'm South Dakota.
What?
The weather.
What's her name?
Who?
The woman you're stuck on.
There is no 
Take care.
Take care? Where the hell are you going 
How long 'till we can eject?
We're going to have to reconfigure.
How long?
At least a day.
Have communications contact all interface centers. Tell them due to high demand, we're at full capacity and so temporarily there's no room for anyone else on the system.
What about the customers with reservations?
Have the staff apologize profusely and issue credit vouchers. But remember, it's a capacity problem. That's all.
The maze has been changed 
 He says the maze has been changed. I need to know for sure.
Remember, I'm not the one who chose this.
Yes, so which one of us does that make the coward?
Where the hell are you going?
Unfinished business.
And what about the reconfiguration?
Perfect opportunity for you to demonstrate your continued worth.
You sure he's going to come?
It's his nature.
But what if he doesn't 
 He will.
The patterns were moved around, but they weren't changed.
True. But why?
Halden sent men to kill me in my sleep, but simple illusions won out. So he now sends the legend to finish the deed.
No.
Then what?
But what would happen to me? I have no body to return to.
Not my problem.
So wrong 
Divinity?
Yes.
You are not a God.
In here I am.
God creates man, man creates technology, technology creates God. End into beginning.
In a computer program.
The new world.
It's not real.
Not real?
You were the one who was dying.
Yes...
You sealed off the system. When it crashes, everyone dies with you.
Yes, but only in the dream they call life.
Dream?!
And all dreams, no matter how appealing, must eventually end.
Unlimited energy out there. Enough to run this world for all eternity 
 But you'll never be able to get it through the maze.
Me? Of course not. That's why you're here.
With the energy from the net, we can program this world anyway we want. Redwood forests. Oceans. Mountains 
 Two million people pluggedin here.
Yes.
Until you're on the net where the corporation can't touch you, you can't open the system. They'll eject it if you do.
One would assume so.
But once the system touches the net, all links are severed. Everybody dies.
Only up there in the dream they called life.
And down here 
As long as it's not 'what's your sign?'
If you could meet God, what would you say to him?
That's a strange question. You a strange man?
There you are, sitting next to the creator, what do you say?
This is how you pick up women 
 No.
Your life that bad?
No, not me, I've been lucky. But I've seen what happens to other people 
 If your life's so good up there Gena, what are you doing down here?
Do you believe in miracles?
I'm serious, how did you know my name?
You were right.
About what?
Who are you?!
Someone who believes in miracles.
You don't have much sex up there in the real world, do you?
No...
It's all here...
Yes.
The guests are here.
Guests?
Just like you always wanted.
But this is impossible.
That's the grace of this world. Nothing's impossible.
What's happening?
Nothing, go back to sleep.
It's time to wake up.
Wake up?!
From the dream.
It's okay.
Okay...
It's all been transferred.
Why?
To live forever.
She said I have a son...
No, she said she had a son. In a dream she once called life.
How come I can't remember?
Because I took it out of your memory.
Why 
 Because there'll be no remorse. Not in my world.
This is Halden.
Halden, how nice to hear your voice.
What do you want?
I have found in life that what one wants isn't nearly as important as what one needs.
What do you need?
I need to take back what's mine.
There are two million people in there with you.
Yes.
They have nothing to do with this 
 Two million people lost in the digital night. What do they seek?
GodDamn you!
Yes, I believe he has 
 You've made your point! You've got control of the system.
System's running on auxiliary. Only seven hours before it crashes.
True.
You're in there. Everybody dies, you go with them 
 But don't you remember? I'm already dead.
Tell him to give me a raise.
He says, "Thank you very much." I'll discuss it with him right now... Goodbye, Chief.
Roper.
What?
Are you going to make this hard for me?
Depends. What's up?
There's been some concern about you continuing to work without backup.
Define concern.
What if you die and no one can do what you do as well as you do it?
Your concern is heartwarming.
It's been decided that you take on another partner and train him to be able to take over for you.
Is that what the guy in the Sunday School suit is doing outside?
His name's Kevin McCall. Every Metro Captain agrees that he's their top sharpshooter and most likely to succeed.
Great, send him to the Marines. This guy's not a negotiator. He'll quit in two weeks.
You let us worry about that.
Is there going to be an expression of your appreciation?
What kind of appreciation are we talking about?
The financial kind. I figure I'm going to be working extra hours. All sorts of overtime... training sessions... Not to mention the extra stress...
What do you think would be in order?
Like ahh... I don't know... Five thousand dollars.
Okay, I think I could swing that.
And a car.
Hey, you just got a five thousand dollar raise. Get a car of your own.
You know you've got nothing but cars down there in impound.
Impound isn't a rentacar company.
The car is part of the deal.
What happened to your Trans Am?
Repoed this morning.
I'll provide you with transportation.
And even if this doesn't work, I want all the money. These SWAT guys don't have the temperament. They don't have the background...
The chief says to tell you how sorry he is. He knew Sam Baffert was a good man.
He said he was just going up to talk to him. He said... I want to be put on this case.
I can't do that.
I want to be put on this case.
You know I can't assign you to this. You're much too close to it. You were much too close to Sam. The department will take care of it.
Who's running it?
Roper...
Who's running it!
Kimura and Glass will head the investigation.
What do we got?
32 minutes ago the silent alarm went off, then the fire alarm. A unit was a block away, and the suspect got trapped inside.
Any verification on numbers.
We've only seen and talked to one suspect. He calls himself "Joe". There's two jewelers, two salespeople, the manager, a security guard, and an elderly woman. This particular store is where they do a lot of jewelry making and repair. They have anywhere from 8 to 10 million in raw stones on any given day, so they sure as shit didn't just wander in. They knew what they were coming for.
What have you promised them?
Just that I'd talk to my superiors.
Are these yours?
Yeah, they are but...
Come on!
...at the top of the stretch it's Cozy Girl in front with Backtrack coming on... Cozy Girl by a length, Backtrack closing...
Come on. Stay up there, Cozy Girl...
It's Cozy Girl holding on... Cozy Girl and Backtrack...
I'm en route. E.T.A. in five.
Stay up there, Girl...
Cozy Girl in front by a neck... Now a head...
Where's the damn wire?!
Here comes the wire... and... Backtrack gets up in the last jump. Cozy girl a very game second.
SHIT!
This baseball player you're going out with... He's no good for you.
Really?! He's a wonderful guy. He makes two million a year, and he worships me.
I worship you.
You worship yourself.
Ronnie, forget this what'shisname.
Greg.
Did you know he's already got a bad knee? In another 10 years you're going to be pushing him around in a wheelchair.
You know what I think? I think you only want me now, because I'm with somebody else.
Who cares what you think. I want you back and that's all that matters.
Let me take you out tomorrow night... Pleeease.
I'm going out with Greg tomorrow.
This Greg is really getting in my way.
Please. I'm begging you.
Oh, I've got to get a shot of this.
Hey.
Hey yourself. Came by to see Troy.
A little late for that, Scottie. He's asleep. Jack Daniels?
I'm not drunk. Yet.
Maybe you should be.
You heard.
Yeah. I'm sorry.
Can I come in?
That a new picture?
About 4 months old. I'm working in a new style.
I won't stay long. I had to talk to someone.
You don't usually talk to anyone when you're hurting.
It was my fault. I was right downstairs. I should have gone up with him.
Scott, You can't save everyone.
I've proved that, didn't I?
Oh, hell, forget it. This won't work.
What do you want from me?
Something I guess I can't have anymore.
Don't try to make me feel guilty. The whole time we were together, you went out of your way to prove you didn't need me. Now, suddenly, for one night, you need me again. I can't do it. I can't be more than your friend. Because I know what will happen. In a few weeks you'll be back on top, and you'll shut me out just as soon as you don't need me again.
You think I didn't need you?
If you did, you never showed it.
Ronnie...
I wanted to get this out of the way.
You got a bet on the game tonight?
As a matter of fact, I do.
It's already started.
I was going to catch the last half on TV.
That kind with the garlic and the oil that I like so much?
No. The kind from Kraft, with the macaroni and the cheese.
I've been craving that stuff all week.
And it's hard to get.
What do you think?
Mmm, needs a little something.
What are you talking about? This is it. This is the stuff right here. Well, maybe just a pinch more sugar.
Yeah that's it.
Why don't you just stick your finger in and stir it up.
Scottie...
Scottie, remember the day you lost that hostage in union square. You came over that night and we made mad, crazy love. But I didn't even know what happened... 'til I heard it on the news the next morning.
It's because I wanted to keep you away from that world.
It's not that world. It's your world. It's part of who you are.
Veronica, it's not easy for me... I don't know if I can change overnight. But what I'm telling you is that I want to share everything with you, because I don't ever want to be without you again.
What about Greg? What are you gonna tell him?
It's okay. We broke up.
When?
Just now.
How's Paco doing?
He was going nuts at the park. He met this very attractive poodle. They made plans to meet again next weekend.
You like this place?
It's very nice.
I guess you realize that there's something special that I want to talk to you about.
There is?
For the last week things have been going pretty well between us. I think we've been doing a good job getting intimate and all that stuff...
Yeah?
...Let me just show you.
How come in those foreign movies the young girl is always with some fat, old guy.
In Europe women find older men very sexy.
Korda escaped.
And you think he'll...
I don't think you're old and fat enough for me.
Use your imagination.
Why don't you come back up with me, Ronnie.
I think I'll stand out here in the sun.
Scottie, Scottie...
It's all over, babe, it's all over.
Stay here, don't move.
Scottie...
Do it!
I've never seen sea so blue. Tahiti is magnificent, Scottie.
Yeah, I could get used to this Paradise shit.
Scottie?
Hmm?
I've been thinking.
Hmm?
Things have been going pretty well between us, haven't they?
Yeah.
You've changed you know. I don't think there's anything you can't do once you put your mind to it.
I was just thinking... There's something special I want to talk to you about. I think it's time we went to a whole other phase in our relationship. A deeper level.
A deeper level?
That's right. We've got to bare it all. Here and now. 'Cause I think I'm finally ready to go for it...
Whoa! Wait a minute, Ronnie. Hold on. I know it's beautiful here. The sun, the sand, the sea and all that nature shit can really get to you. But we've got to keep our perspective here. This place isn't real. This isn't reality.
Scott...
I mean I said this trip should be a 'roadtest'.
...the hell are you talking about?
I'm talking about... What are you talking about?
I'm talking about me 'n' you stripping down on this beach and gettin' you know... 'naked in Tahiti'.
You talkin' about gettin' 'nekked?' Shit, I thought you were talkin' bout, you know... the "M" word.
You thought I was talking about getting married?!
You crazy? With all those people around?
Know what you are?! You're a prude, Roper.
The hell I am!
Prude.
First you want me to put on one of those skinny ass bathing suits  tongs or thongs or whatever you call them  with my butt cheeks wrapped around a piece of dental floss... No way.
I know how you feel, Ray.
You don't know shit, and I suggest you leave.
I can't leave, Ray. It's part of my negotiator's oath. Once I'm in the room with the hostage, I have to stay.
You don't want to see what I'm going to do to her.
Let me show you something, Ray.
Same thing happened to me, man. She cheated on me, but I forgave her. You know why?
I ain't interested in your life story.
Because I was partially to blame. I wasn't around as much as I should have been. I forgot how to love her.
She's the one to blame. Not me.
Ray, think about how she looked when you married her. Think about how happy you were. Don't lose that, man. Don't give up everything.
What am I giving up? I'm laid off last year. I'm down to my last unemployment check. I'm out on the streets looking for work and this bitch is banging some asshole in my bed.
Ray, if you walk out of here with me, I'll get you a job.
Doing what? Cleaning toilets?
I can't guarantee you what it will be. But I swear on my life, I'll find you work.
And why the fuck would you do that for me?
Not for you, Ray. For me. A close friend of mine was killed this week. The way I figure it, I stop you from doin' what you said, I'm one up on body count.
Who the fuck are you, Mother Teresa?
My name's Scott Roper.
Roper. Metro Division. Hostage Negotiator. Give me the short version.
Husband came home. Found that guy and his wife "in flagrante". Now he's holding her at knife point.
Which apartment?
Have you evacuated anyone?
Only that floor.
Is the hostage injured?
Don't know. She keeps screaming to stay out. He keeps screaming to stay out. We decided to stay out.
Well, there's a good amount of agreement on that.
Same here. I've watched you in action. Very impressive.
You've got a lot of hard work ahead of you if you want to be a negotiator.
I'm ready to do it. And I'm going to be here more than two weeks.
Don't go reading my lips, man. That's an intrusion. Save that shit for the sniper school. Comprende?
Sorry... Habit.
We're already past it, aren't we, Kevin?
If you say so.
You ever been in a hostage situation?
Only at the very end.
How do you feel after a shooting.
Like it had to be done.
It rarely has to be done.
I've rarely shot anyone.
SWAT is a lifesaving unit, you know.
I know.
Try to remember that.
What's the point of this?
A little exercise in lateral thinking. The obvious solution isn't always the only solution... See you tomorrow.
I'm sorry about your friend. I had a friend in SWAT killed. I know how it can be.
I appreciate your concern. Let's leave it at that.
So, McCall, how come you ended up in San Francisco?
They recruited me. Promised me fast advancement.
Recruited you from where?
National Marksman Competition.
With your qualifications you must have had a lot of offers. Why here?
Furthest point I could find from New York.
You don't like New York?
Spent my whole life there. I just wanted to get out for a while.
You'd never been out of New York?
Been to Toronto. My mother was born there.
How did you like Toronto?
It was okay.
You're a real excitable sort, aren't you?
You caught me on an "up" day. How about you? How did you end up in San Francisco?
I grew up in Oakland... Crossed the Bay Bridge and here I was. So you're looking for "fast advancement".
Is there something wrong with that?
I'm not sure.
How are we gonna get him out of there?
We could fill it with water.
Eightyfive percent of domestic disturbances of this nature end in murder/suicide.
Not the ones I'm at.
Come on. Let's go for a drink.
I don't really like to drink.
You have to. It's a tradition.
Well, if I have to, I have to.
You got a girlfriend?
Why? You like my ass?
You wouldn't want to put a small wager on this, would you?
I don't gamble.
Yeah, I've got a girlfriend.
You living together?
She's back in Jersey... going to graduate school.
Explain how that works.
She's going to come here when she graduates and then we're gonna get married.
She grow up in Livingtston, too?
No, no, no... She's from Hoboken.
Oh, "city girl". Don't you ever long for companionship with her such a long way away in New Jersey?
We see each other every couple of months.
Every couple of months, huh?
That's a lot of commitment. I admire that.
Do you really?
No. Actually I think it's fucking crazy, I don't know if I could do it.
Thanks for clearing that up. I hear your former girlfriend is going out with Greg Barnett.
Where did you hear that?
Around. Barnett's tough competition.
Yeah, well that's a sore subject, and therefore out of bounds to a young sprout of a hostage negotiator under my tutelage.
Lesson two, "Dead Eye"... should have been lesson one. Never exchange yourself for a hostage.
I think I can handle that one.
Yeah, you think so, but it comes up.
You think you can learn, McCall?
I think so.
First things is, don't say, "What's going on?" Everybody knows what's going on. I come into this situation, I say, "I'm glad to see nobody's hurt. That's good. I'm here to help you." Second: You hesitated. Don't hesitate. If you're thinking, talk while you're thinking, or else he's going to think you're plotting. Which you are. If he thinks you're plotting, you're going to make him nervous. You don't want him nervous. Got that?
No.
It'll come. Try again.
Tell me what you need.
I need you to bring me the scumbag who ran off with my wife so I can cut off his nuts.
I can't do that.
Then get out of my face you worthless piece of frogshit.
Nah, I just throw that in because I enjoy it.
So what do I say to this guy?
You could say something like, "Tell me what the scumbag's name is. Maybe we can work something out."
What? Bring somebody in so he can cut his nuts off?
If you want to be a successful negotiator, you've got to learn to lie.
I'm not good at lying.
Get good at it.
It's against my nature.
You know the ten commandments?
Yes.
What's the first commandment?
Thou shall have no other God before me.
You tell me.
Thou shall not kill... You've killed, right?
Yes.
Why?
To save lives.
So why would you hesitate to lie to save lives?
My name's McCall. I'm unarmed.
Okay, stop.
What did you see?
A dirtbag behind the counter holding a sawedoff. A Berretta nine millimeter in his belt. A female hostage, red dress, on the floor in front of the cereal display. Male hostage, jeans and blue checked shirt, three feet to her right. Another male hostage, white pants, green shirt, Nikes, laying in front of the magazine rack. A female dirtbag with a gun under her shirt, sitting against the beer cooler, trying to pass herself off as a hostage, and there's a special on toiletpaper, four for a buck twentynine.
Why did he do it?
Because he knew the little girl had zero chance of survival and his chances would be a little better... We had a plan, but SWAT opened up too early. He got caught in the crossfire. Let's move on... Notice this. Always use the eyes to keep the connection. It almost like hypnosis. That's the most important thing. Create a connection. You're always on their side...
You know why I like the track?
You're a compulsive gambler?
See the favorite? Tail up. Washy. He doesn't want to run today. Cross him off... Now the Six looks good. On his toes. Coat shiny. This trainer/jockey combo does well. We can't leave him out. What do you think?
I have two words for you... Seek help.
I have three words for you... Exac ta.
I bought you a foursix exacta box. You owe me twenty bucks.
I do.
We need the 4 and 6 to finish to first and second.
Fine.
Ronnie... Yeah, so.
Now she's going out with Greg Barnett?
So what do you want?... An autograph.
I don't know why she'd pick him over you.
I'm just practicing my lying.
Still needs work.
You're right. I'll never be as good a liar as you.
The 6 horse is last.
That's okay. That's his style.
To run last?
To run late!
The 6 horse is still last.
He'll be running at the quarter pole.
They need to run first and second?
Yeah, first and second.
COME ON RUSSELL!... Who the fuck's Russell?!
The jockey!
COME ON, RUSSELL!
We won!
We lost.
We won.
How much you wanna bet?
You want to bet on whether you won your bet? This is getting sick.
How long you been coming here?
About six years. My partner took me.
Is it always like this?
Occasionally you lose.
See this. Solis has me driving the shitmobile, and he picked this up straight out of impound for fourteen grand. Probably worth thirty.
Police corruption. It's everywhere.
There's your answer. He's smart.
He's cutting down the visibility.
And doing a very good job of it.
He's got the girl.
Damnit!
What the fuck is going on.
I don't know, but I've got to get on there.
You're crazy.
Pull up alongside.
It might have happened no matter who was up there.
Bullshit! Would it have happened to you?
Maybe... There's one thing you have to remember... You don't create the situations. You can only try to save people from them.
I thought I could do it. I was so damn sure of myself. But I didn't know what to say. The words wouldn't come. My mouth turned to mush. You make it look so easy, Roper. But it is not. It's not easy. It's a different job than looking through the rifle scope.
That it is.
How many have you lost?
I look at it as how many I've saved. That's the way you've got to look at it.
And what about the ones you don't save?
You live with it... and they haunt you. It doesn't leave.
And what if you can't live with it?
You've got to decide that for yourself.
He's gonna kill her no matter what. If I take him these jewels he's gonna kill me and her.
So what do you want to do?
That's a chance I gotta take.
Then we better get moving... But there's no way we can get the jewels out of evidence.
Mare Island is an abandoned shipyard, cranes, high buildings... he'll be in place where he can see everything. How are we going to get me in there?
Good question.
McCall, you all right?
I'm okay. Korda... went down the side of the building...
Stay put.
You don't have to come here.
Yes, I do. That way there's no misunderstandings. I need to make sure no one's hurt, then we can take care of business.
Alright, Roper. You want to come... come.
Good. I won't be armed. We gotta operate on trust here. We're going to wrap this up and have you guys out of here as soon as possible.
Are you in charge, Roper?
Yep.
I want a car. Like a four wheel drive. I want it in perfect condition. I want a uniformed cop to drive it up right here. I want him to leave the engine running and walk to the end of the street. Then we'll come out. I don't want any remote control devices in it. I know all the tricks. If it's not in perfect condition, and I mean if its even low on wiper fluid, I'm going to kill somebody and we're gonna start again.
I want a plane waiting at the airport. I'll tell them where I want to go when I get there.
Is that all?
For now that's all.
You'll get it. But, Joe, I want you to do something for me. Let me take a look around inside. Make sure everybody's okay.
No. You just do shit for me right now.
Joe, I'm doing a lot for you. I think you could give me something to cement the deal... One hostage.
I'll give you something.
You can't kill me like this.
What if you and me got into a struggle... and my gun went off?
Open your shirt.
I'm not wearing a wire. This is just between you and me.
Shut the fuck up and do what I say!
Satisfied?
Open the bag, dump everything on the table.
It's all there.
Spread it out.
I'm impressed. I didn't think you could do it. What did you have to do, steal them?
Yeah.
That's not going to look too good on your service record.
I'll worry about that. Let's get on with it.
Hi, Roper.
Hi, Kimura. Where's the command post?
The suspect came in shortly after the bank opened. Botched robbery. A teller hit the silent alarm. He took seven hostages. Shot one  the guard. He's still alive. So far he's asked for...
...a car.
That's right, and a plane waiting at the airport. If he doesn't...
...get 'em, he's going to start shooting hostages in five minutes...
That's right.
What's the suspect's name?
Earl.
We got a guy who's probably on drugs. He's got a record of 459's and he was busted on possession. But he's never been busted on a major felony. What's his demeanor?
Well he's a little fucking agitated  he ripped the phone out.
I have to go face to face.
Anything on Korda so far?
Solis said to keep you clear of this.
What do you got on Korda?
We ran a search on relatives. He has a cousin in town  Clarence Teal. Smalltime thief. Last known address was on Pine Street. He moved out a month ago. We've got a couple leads on him to check out.
Did you check out DMV for any vehicles registration?
Being faxed over now.
How about the record room for any incident reports? He might be a victim. We can get medical records. Check with burglary detail and see if anyone else knows him, knows his habits.
Roper...
And what about bars? We can talk to neighbors to see what bars he frequents.
Roper, we're into it...
Who are you again?
Johnny Hawkins. Bail Bonds. I gotta be over at county in fifteen minutes, alright?
Johnny who?
Hold on a second here.
Is there a problem?
You signed out twice.
I what?
Look, why don't you just come on back inside for a second.
Wait a minute, lemme see that.
Where's the car?
I need to get something straight first.
It's my job to see that no one gets killed, Earl... Including you.
Then where's my FUCKING car!
Really?
Absolutely. Bank robbers are generally your smartest criminals.
The Old Guy? What kind of show of faith is that? I want Debbie.
Am I gettin' the car?
You're gettin' the car.
What?!
You want a convertible or hardtop?
Manual or automatic?
Automatic.
You got it.
I... I'm Kevin. I 'm here to help you, D... Dave.
You can't help me, man.
Who's controlling your mind?
Whoa!... The government. They control everybody's mind. You're too fucking stupid to know that?
This has nothing to do with Walter.
They want Walter dead!
Tell me what's wrong.
Particles, man. I feel them all the time. I feel them in my arms and legs man, that's how they punish me.
How can I help you with the particles?
It's not just the particles man, it's the whole fucking machine, this is how they get assassins to operate. It's been this way since the cuban missile crisis.
They have less power over you if you look into my eyes.
Huh?
Tell my dad.
Tell him what, what do you want me to tell him?
Tell my dad I'm sorry about the watch.
I'll tell him. Where does he live. We'll get him on the phone right now.
I hate fucking Springfield.
Is that where you're family lives?
You told Antonucci that shit came from me.
So that we could get the best price. He's got respect for you. He's gonna try to lowball me, Mike.
You fucking idiot! Why do you think I use you?... To be a walking advertisement.
I'm sorry, Mike. I never heard of LaMarra flipping on anyone before. He said he had the cops paid off. Antonucci never flipped on anyone before. He had the cops paid off.
Not the fucking cop that showed up at my door!
What happened, Mike.
You don't want to know.
God damn it! I still needed to case that fucking store. It's too risky to show my face now.
I got a couple thousand bucks. You could leave town.
Leave town? They're going to know me in fucking Des Moines now!... They got over ten million in jewels in that place. That's freedom, man. I could go anywhere I want.
You gotta do this for me. I'm in here because of you.
Man, what's this about? Ya know, you were robbing a store. It wasn't personal. It was his job.
Fuck you! You know what he did to me?!...
Don't make do it, Mike.
Are you going to turn on me too? Who helped you when you were strung out? Who gave you money? Who bailed you out of jail?
I won't get away with it.
Nobody knows who you are. Make it look like a robbery.
Who is it?
It's Lieutenant Sam Baffert from the San Francisco Police Department.
What happened? Is there a problem?
May I come in? I would just like to ask you a couple of questions.
Duke Ellington. "Things Ain't What They Used To Be", recorded July 30, 1945.
Yeah... Yeah... Now I can hear it.
Where did you find an old recording like that?
Used record shop down on Turk Street. I was in there looking for some Robert Johnson. Memories... Memory Lane or something...
I've got to stop in there... Mr. Korda, do you know Frank Antonucci?
You mean Frank who owns the bakery down the street?
Could I please have a little water?
Of course.
Perhaps for his own reasons he entangled me in this... situation.
This cousin of yours... What's his name?
Clarence Teal.
Hello, guys.
Hello, Roper. Glad you could join us.
They're not usually graduate students.
SWAT wants to go in.
What's the rush? They haven't killed anybody yet this week?
No  you can't do that.
You got 7 hostages in there, 1 of them's wounded  We don't know how bad it is  The guy ripped the phone out  SWAT said he's got a gun to the head of a female hostage. If SWAT makes entry now, you're gonna lose 1 hostage, maybe 2. I gotta go in. Maybe I can see what's going on in there.
I don't know.
He's never offed anybody. His rap doesn't show any violence.
Not that we know of.
We don't know how much time we have. If I can get in to talk to him  maybe we won't lose anyone.
Maybe we can get a throw phone in there.
Floor seats.
You're my hero.
Dinner's on you.
Deal.
Mind if we make a stop on the way? We busted Frank Antonucci on possession. He gave us a lead on that Polk Street jewelry heist.
"Phoney Frank"? Don't waste your time. He'd tell you his granny was in on the Kennedy assassination if he could dodge a collar.
I still gotta do it. Wasting time is half my job.
Yeah, okay.
This SWAT guy might be a good idea. He may be able to take a little pressure off you. I worry about you.
You worried about me, too? The chief's worried about me. Solis is worried about me. Maybe you guys should start some kind of organization.
Speaking of which. I saw you talking to Ronnie this morning. Why can't you get it back together with her. You've gotta be out of your mind not to get with that one.
It's not me. It's her. She's going out with this baseball player  Greg Barnett.
No shit! He's good!
Fuck him. He swings at anything in the dirt. I could strike him out.
Don't give up on her. You're getting to the age when you ought to be thinking about these things.
Where's the stereo?
Fuck the stereo. What's that smell?
Come on. Just get in. We gotta go.
Apartment 306.
You want me to go up with you?
Nah, It probably won't turn up anything. I'm just gonna talk to him.
Good. I don't want to be late.
What's the line?
It was Warriors plus 6 this morning.
I'll take half of your action.
Spencer of the Chronicle .
Hold him. Yes, Mrs. Brewster, I'm listening.
Yes, Spencer. Who? The Governor? Well, what about me? it's my building he's jumping off of! And I'm up for reelection, too!
Shh!
What are you doing? Get Connell at the Bulletin ! Why, he's liable to go right past my window, What was that?!
What?
Out the window! Something just flew by!
I didn't see anything.
Well, don't stand there, you idiot. Go and look. Open the window. Oh, why did he have to pick on my building?
Is there a crowd in the street?
No, sir.
Then he may be caught on a ledge! Look again!
I think it must have been a sea gull.
A seagull? What's a seagull doing around the city hall? That's a bad omen, isn't it?
Oh, nno, sir. The seagull is a lovely bird.
Iit's all right, Mrs. Brewster. It was just a seagull. Er. nothing's happened yet! No, I'm watching. Don't worry. Jujust leave it all to me!
Pretty good? Say, I was just about ready for the major leagues when I chipped a bone in my elbow. I got it pitchin' a nineteeninning game!
Nineteen!
Yep. There was a major league scout there watching me, too. And he came down after the game with a contract. Do you know what? I couldn't life my arm to sign it. But I'll be okay again as soon as I get it fixed up.
That's too bad.
What do you mean, too bad?
Huh? Oh, that you'll never be able to play again.
Well, what are you talking about? I just told you I was gonna get a
Well, you know how they are in baseballif a guy's mixed up in a racket
Racket? What do you mean?
Well, I was just thinking about this John Doe business. Why, as soon as it comes out it's all a fake, you'll be washed up in baseball, won't you?
Yyeah. Gee, doggone it, I never thought about that. Gosh!
And another thing, what about all the kids in the country, the kids that idolize ball players? What are they gonna think about you? Close shot: Of the COLONEL. He has dropped his gloveflopped into a chairand has taken out his ocarina.
I know one way you can do it.
How?
Well, when you get up on the radio, all you have to do is say the whole thing's a frameup. Make you a hero sure as you're born!
Yeah, but how am I gonna get my arm fixed?
Well, that's a cinch. I know somebody that'll give you five thousand dollars just to get up on the radio and tell the truth.
Say, who's putting up this dough?
Feller runs the Chronicle . Here's the speech you makeand it's all written out for you.
Have you got the speech I gave you?
Yeah.
Now, look. I'll give this money to the Colonel just as soon as you get started. We'll have a car waiting at the side entrance for you.
Okay.
It's good to see you. Sit down.
Thanks.
It's for Ann . . .
Oh, how nice! Thank you very much.
Flowers.
I'm terribly sorry she isn't here.
She isn't?
No, she just left. I'm surprised you didn't run into her. She went over to Mr. Norton's house.
Oh!
Did you want to see her about something important?
Yeah. I, uh, well . . . No. It'll wait. Say, he's a nice man, isn't he? Mr. Norton, I mean. He's, er, he's done an awful lot for the
Well, I guess I'll see her at the convention later.
Yes, of course. I'll see that she gets the flowers.
Thanks. Good night, Mrs. Mitchell.
Good night, John.
Oh, yeah. That's what I mean. See? It was easy as all that, huh?
Uhhuh.
Yeah, yeah, but look, Mrs. Mitchell, you know I love Ann and it's gonna be awfully hard for me to say it because, well, you know, she's so wonderful, and, well, the best I ever was was a bushleague pitcher.
I bet you he'd know how to say it all right. And me, I get up to it and around it and in back of it, but, but I never get right to it. Do you know what I mean? So the only chance I've got is, well, if somebody could kinda give her a warning sort of, sorta prepare her for the shock!
You mean you'd like me to do it, huh?
Well, I was thinking thatYeah, you know, sort of break the ice.
Look, Mr. Norton, I think you've got a lot of nerve having those people hold us here.
There's nobody holding you here, Mr. Doe. It's only natural that people
Well, if there's nobody holding us here, let's get going. Incidentally, my name isn't Doe. It's Willoughby.
Why, certainly. With your ability to influence people, it might grow into a glorious movement.
Say, let's get something straight here. I don't want any part of this thing. If you've got an idea I'm going around lecturing to people, why you're crazy! Baseball's my racket, and I'm sticking to it. Come on, Colonel, let's get out of here.
Is there anything wrong?
Oh, no. Nothing's wrong. Everything's fine! So there's gonna be a new order of things, huh? Everybody's gonna cut himself a nice, fat slice of the John Does, eh? You forgot one detail, Mr. Big Shotyou forgot me, the prize stooge of the world. Why, if you or anybody else thinks he's gonna use the John Doe clubs for his own rotten purpose, he's gonna have to do it over my dead body!
Now, hold on a minute, young man! Hold on! That's rather big talk! I started the John Doe clubs with my money and I'll decide whether or not they're being properly used!
No you won't! You're through deciding anything!
That's a lie!
It's not a lie! Nickels and dimes! To stuff into their own pockets! You can read all about it in the newspapers there!
That's a lie! Listendon't believe what he says . . .
Let go of me! This man had no intention of jumping off of the top of a building! He was paid to say so! Do you deny that?
That's got nothing to do with it!
Were you paid for itor weren't you?
Yes! I was paid! But the
And what about the suicide note? You didn't write that, either!
What difference does that make?
Did you write itor didn't you?
No, I didn't write it, but
Ah, you bet your life you didn't! You look in your papers, ladies and gentlemen, and you'll find Miss Mitchell's signed confession that she was the one that wrote it!
Listen, folks, it's a fact that I didn't write the letter, but this whole thing started
There! You see? He admits it! You're a fake, John Doe! And for what you've done to all these good peoplethey ought to run you out of the countryand I hope they do it!
Did you write that letter to Miss Mitchell?
No, I didn't.
What are you doing up here then?
Well, the paper said there were some jobs around loose. Thought there might be one left over.
How about family? Got any family?
No.
Oh, just traveling through, huh?
Yeah. Me and a friend of mine. He's outside.
What's your name?
Willoughby. John Willoughby, Long John Willoughby they called me in baseball.
Only one thing to do, Hank. Drop the whole business quickly.
How?
Run a story. Say John Doe was in here, and is sorry he wrote the letter and
That's right. You got it! Sure! He came in here and I made him change his mind. "Bulletin editor saves John Doe's life." Why, it's perfect. I'll have Ned write it up. Oh, Ned!
Miss Mitchell, do me a favor, will you? Go on out and get married and have a lot o' babiesbut stay out o' newspaper business!
Better get that story in, Hank, it's getting late.
If you ask me, Hank, you're playing around with dynamite.
No, no, no, the gal's right. We can't let the Chronicle get the laugh on us! We've got to produce a John Doe now. Amateur journalism, huh! I'll show those guys.
Show me an American who can keep his mouth shut andI'll eat him.
Okay, Beany, bring 'em in one at a time. Wipe to: Montage: Half a dozen different types of hoboes appearand in each instance ANN shakes her head, negatively.
Go down to the office and arrange for some radio time.
Why, D. B., you're not going to fall for
I want it as soon as possible.
Okay. I just came in to get warm, myself. Come on, let's go.
Well, I don't get it.
Huh? Get what?
Look, D. B. I'm supposed to know my way around. This John Doe movement costs you a fortune. This convention's gonna cost plenty.
Well?
Well, I'm stuck with two and twobut I'm a sucker if I can make four out of it. Where do you come in?
Whyuh
I see. I'd better stick to running the paper, huh?
I think maybe you'd better. And ConnellI'd like to have the John Doe contract, all the receipts for the money we have advanced him and the letter Miss Mitchell wrote, for which I gave her a thousand dollars.
Yes. Sure.
I trust him.
Oh, you trust him, eh? Well, that's fine. I suppose he trusts you, too?
Yeah, but it's got to be by Bone Setter Brown.
Okay, BoneSetter Brown goes. Here, sign it. Meanwhile, here's fifty dollars for spending money. That's fine. Beany!
Hello, Mr. Connell.
Hiyah, John. John, I want to have a little talk with you. What's the matterare you falling? Come here.
No, I never read the speeches before I make them. I get more of a kick out of it that way.
Uhhuh. That's exactly what I thought. Beany, go on down to the office, tell Pop to give you the speech. There's a copy on my desk.
Now, that's all right, isn't it?
You betcha.
I get mad for a lot of other guys besides myselfI get mad for a guy named Washington! And a guy named Jeffersonand Lincoln. Lighthouses, John! Lighthouses in a foggy world! You know what I mean?
Yeah, you bet!
Listen, palthis fifth column stuff's pretty rotten, isn't it?[11]
Yeah. It certainly is.
And you'd feel like an awful sucker if you found yourself marching right in the middle of it, wouldn't you?
You must be wrong, Mr. Connell, 'cause he's been marvelous about the John Doe Clubs.
Yeah? Say, you're sold on the John Doe idea, aren't you?
Sure.
Sure. I don't blame you. So am I.
All right! Now, supposing a certain unmentionable worm, whose initials are D. B., was trying to use that to shove his way into the White House. So he could put the screws on, so he could turn out the lights in those lighthouses. What would you say about that? Huh?
Nobody's gonna do that, Mr. Connell. They can't use the John Doe Clubs for politics. That's the main idea.
Is that so? Then what's a big political boss like Hammett doing in town? And a labor leader like Bennett? And a lot of other big shots who are up at D. B.'s house right now? Wolves, John, wolves waiting to cut up the John Does! Wait till you get a gander at that speech you're gonna make tonight!
You're all wet. Miss Mitchell writes those speeches and nobody can make her write that kind of stuff.
They can't, huh? Who do you think writes 'em? My Aunt Emma? I know she writes them.
Don't write 'em? Why, that gold grabbin' dame would doublecross her own mother for a handful of Chinese yen!
Shut up! If you weren't drunk I'd
Hey, pretty nifty, huh?
You ain't gonna get me to stay here.
Sure, you are.
No, sir. That spot under the bridge where we slept last night's good enough for me.
Gimme mine. I ain't staying! You know we were headed for the Columbia River country before all this John Doe business came up. You remember that, don't yuh?
Sure. I remember . . . Say, did your ears pop coming up in the elevator? Mine did.
Aw, Long John . . . I tell youit's no good. You're gonna get used to a lotta stuff that's gonna wreck you. Why, that fifty bucks in your pocket's beginning to show up on you already. And don't pull that on me neither!
Stop worrying, Colonel. I'm gonna get my arm fixed out of this.
Hey, stop worrying, Colonel. Fifty bucks ain't going to ruin me.
I seen plenty of fellers start out with fifty bucks and wind up with a bank account!
You win, Colonel. Here's the fifty. Go on out and get rid of it.
You bet I will! As fast as I can! Gonna get some canned goodsa fishing rod, and the rest I'm gonna give away.
I gotta figure some way out of this thing!
The elevators are still runnin'.
Yeah, she's a heelot just like the rest of them. It's lucky you got away from her.
What was I doin' up there makin' a speech, anyway? Me? Huh? Gee, the more I think about it the more I could . . .
Tear down all the fences. Why, if you tore one picket off of your neighbor's fence he'd sue you!
Five thousand bucks! I had it right in my hand!
Jitterbugs.[9] Close shot: JOHN and the COLONEL.
Yeh. Say, how much money we got left?
Four bits.
Better make it doughnuts, huh?
Yeh.
Join the John Doe Club.
John Doe Club?
This is Sourpuss. Er, excuse me. Er, Mr. Smithers, Mr. Doe.
Ththat's all right. If you didn't call me Sourpuss, it wouldn't feel natural. There are snickers from the background.
Well, anyway, II guess nearly everybody in the neighborhood came, except the DeLaneys. The Delaneys live in a big house with an iron fence around it and they always keep their blinds drawn, and we always figured that he was just an old miser that sat back counting his money, so why bother about inviting him? Until Grimes, the milkman spoke up and he said, "Say, you've got the Delaneys all wrong." And then he tells us about how they cancelled their milk last week, and how, when he found a note in the bottle he got kinda curious like and he sorta peeked in under the blinds and found the house empty. "If you ask me," he says, "they're starving."
Old man Delaney has been bringing his furniture over to my place at night, one piece at a time, and selling it.
And then we started to find out about a lot of other people.
Yeah, sure. Er, you know Grubbel, for instance.
Well, sir, about a dozen families got together and gave Grubbel a job watering their lawns. Isn't that wonderful? And then we found jobs for six other people and they've all gone off relief!
Yeh. Er, and my boss, Mr. Schwabacker made a job in his warehouse for old man Delaney
No!
Well, thank you for listening. Goodbye, Mr. Doe. You're a wonderful man and it strikes me you can be mighty useful walking around for a while.
How could he be a fake?
It must be some kind of a gag.
A what?
A gag. A gag!
It makes no difference, Bertthe ideas's still good. We don't have to give up our club.
Yeah? Well, you can have it!
That man is gonna be on that roof. Don't ask me how I know. I just know. And you know it as well as I do.
Sure, sure. I'd like to believe in fairy tales, but a guy that's fake isn't gonna jump off any roof.
Well, I'll be doggoned if over forty people don't show up. 'Course none of us knew what to do, but we sure got a kick out of seeing how glad everybody was just to say hello to one another.
Tell him about making Sourpuss chairman, honey.
Oh, yeah. We made Sourpuss chairman and decided to call ourselves The John Doe Club. And, say, incidentally, this is my wife. Come here, honey.
Grubbel's here. See?
Yeah. That'sthat's him. Of course, you don't know Grubbel, but he's the man that everybody figured was the worst noaccount in the neighborhood because he was living like a hermit and nobody'd have anything to do with him. Er, that is until Murphy, the postman told us the truth. "Why, Grubbel," he says, "he lives out of garbage cans because he won't take charity. Because it'd ruin his selfrespect," he says.
Just like you said on the radio, Mr. Doe.
You don't have toWhy, we're with you, Mr. Doe. We just lost our heads and acted like a mob. Why, we . . .
What Bert's trying to say iswellwe need you, Mr. Doe. There were a lot of us didn't believe what that man said.
Help yourself.
Naw.
I've seen guys like you go under before. Guys that never had a worry. Then they got ahold of some dough and went goofy. The first thing that happens to a guy
Hey, did yuh get a load of the bedroom?
Hey, whatsa matter with a bank account, anyway?
And let me tell you, Long John. When you become a guy with a bank account, they got you. Yes sir, they got you!
Who's got him?
The heelots!
Who?
And when they get you, you got no more chance than a roadrabbit.
Hey. Who'd you say was gonna get him?
Hey, Doc, look. Look, Doc. Gimme that again, will yuh? Who's gonna get him?
The heelots!
Who are they?
Listen, sucker, yuh ever been broke?
Sure. Mostly often.
All right. You're walking alongnot a nickel in your jeansfree as the windnobody bothers youhundreds of people pass yuh by in every line of businessshoes, hats, automobiles, radio, furniture, everything. They're all nice, lovable people, and they let you alone. Is that right?
Ball!
I don't know how you're gonna stand it around here till after Christmas.
Strike!
I know why you're hangin' aroundyou're stuck on a girlthat's all a guy needs is to get hooked up with a woman.
Holy smoke! A half a heelot!
There you are, Boss, just like you ordered. Symbols of the little people.
I went up to Miss Mitchell's house, boss. Boy, she's in a bad way.
Where is she?
Hey, do you know something? She supports a mother and two kids. What do you know about that?
Did you find her?
No. Her mother's awful worried about her. When she left the house she said she was going on a roaring drunk. Er, the girl, I mean!
Go out and find her!
Sure. Hey, but the biggest thing I didn't tell you . . .
Hello! . . . Yeh?
Her old man was Doc Mitchell. You know, the doc that saved my mother's life and wouldn't take any money for it? You remember that? Okay, boss, I'll go and look for her.
just called the morgue, boss. They say there's a girl there
Shut up!
Ann! Say, why didn't yuh
Beany!
Hey, boss. Get a load of this.
What?
Look!
What do they want?
They all say they wrote the John Doe letter.
Yeah, Boss?
Take charge of him. Get him a suite at the Imperial and hire some bodyguards.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Both of 'em?
Yes, both of 'em! But don't let him out of your sight.
Hey, Boss.
Oh, quiet, quiet, quiet. Say, tell me something did you read that speech you're gonna make tonight?
Gee whiz, Boss, you know Mr. Norton told me not to leave him, not even for a minute.
Go on, go on, go on. And we'll be at Jim's Bar up the street.
Hey, wait a minute, Mr. Doe!
. . . Tubby?
Had any schooling?
Yeah, a little.
What do you do when you work?
I used to pitch.
Baseball?
Uhhuh. Till my wing[4] went bad.
Where'd you play?
Bush leagues mostly.[5] Med. shot: To include the rest of them. They have their eyes glued on his face. ANN is very much interested.
How many is that, six? Pretty hungry, weren't you?
Say, all this John Doe business is batty, if yuh ask me.
Well, nobody asked yuh.
Trying to improve the world by jumping off buildings. You couldn't improve the world if the building jumped on you!
Oh, stop worrying. He's all right.
That's
Colonel!
You shouldn't have gotten out of bed, Miss.
Has he been here?
No.
Have you seen him?
I ain't seen him for a week.
Where's Connell?
He's watching the other door.
Oh. Gee, you're swell! Oh.
No sense in going up there! I been here for hours. He ain't here!
Oh, let me go, will you!
Now, that's crazy. It's fourteen floors!
Yeh, D. B. Oh, just cleaning out the deadwood. Okay.
Look, Mr. Connell . . . I just can't afford to be without work right now, not even for a day. I've got a mother and two kid sisters to . . .
I'll tell you what I'll do. I get thirty dollars a week. I'll take twentyfive, twenty if necessary. I'll do anything you say.
It isn't the money. We're after circulation. What we need is fireworks. People who can hit with sledge hammersstart arguments.
Oh, I can do that. I know this town inside out. Oh, give me a chance, please.
No. I've had the whole army and navy searching for you because that's a game we play here every day.
I remember, distinctly, being fired.
That's right. But you have a piece of property that still belongs to this newspaper. And I'd like to have it!
What's that?
The letter.
What letter?
The letter from John Doe.
Oh!
The whole town's in an uproar. We've got to find him. The letter's our only clue.
There is no letter.
We'll get a handwriting expert to What!
There is no letter.
Say that again.
There is no letter. I made it up.
You made it up.
Uhhuh. You said you wanted fireworks.
Well, the whole town's curious about John Doe and, boom, just like that you're going to bury him. There's enough circulation in that man to start a shortage in the ink market!
In what man!
John Doe.
What John Doe?
Our John Doe! The one I made up! Look, genius Now, look. Suppose there was a John Doeand he walked into this office. What would you do? Find him a job and forget about the whole business, I suppose! Not me! I'd have made a deal with him!
A deal?
Sure! When you get hold of a stunt that sells papers you don't drop it like a hot potato. Why, this is good for at least a couple of months. You know what I'd do? Between now and let's say, Christmas, when he's gonna jump, I'd run a daily yarn starting with his boyhood, his schooling, his first job! A wideeyed youngster facing a chaotic world. The problem of the average man, of all the John Does in the world.
Now, then comes the drama. He meets discouragement. He finds the world has feet of clay. His ideals crumble. So what does he do? He decides to commit suicide in protest against the state of civilization. He thinks of the river! But no, no, he has a better idea. The City Hall. Why? Because he wants to attract attention. He wants to get a few things off his chest, and that's the only way he can get himself heard.
So?
Very pretty. Very pretty, indeed, Miss Mitchell. But would you mind telling me who goes on Christmas Eve?
John Doe.
What John Doe?
The one we hire for the job, you lunkhead!
Wait a minute. Wait a minute. Lemme get this through this lame brain of mine. Are you suggesting we go out and hire someone to say he's gonna commit suicide on Christmas Eve? Is that it?
Well, you're catching on.
Who, for instance?
Anybody! Er, erBeany'll do!
You're supposed to be a smart guy! If it was raining hundred dollar bills, you'd be out looking for a dime you lost some place.
Holy smokes! Wasting my time listening to this mad woman.
That's fine! That's fine! Now fall right into their laps. Go ahead. Say John Doe walked in and called the whole thing off. You know what that's going to sound like on top of this!
That's all, Ned. Thank you.
Okay, sister, you get your job back.
Plus a bonus.
What bonus?
I can read. I can read!
Sorry.
So you think this is worth a thousand dollars, do you?
Oh, the Chronicle would consider it dirt cheap.
Packs everything, including a gun. Okay, sister, you've got yourself a deal. Now let's take a look at the candidates. The one we pick has gotta be the typical average man. Typical American that can keep his mouth shut.
Looks all right
He's perfect! A baseball player. What could be more American!
I wish he had a family, though.
That's our man. He's made to order.
I don't know. He don't seem like a guy that'd fall into line.
When you're desperate for money, you do a lot of things, Mr. Connell. He's our man, I tell you.
Hurry up, Pop.
Oh.
Right here. Sit down.
All right, boys, here he is.
No, no, no! You can't take pictures of him like thateating a sandwichand with a beard!
But, he's gonna jump off a building!
Yes, but not because he's out of a job. That's not news! This man's going to jump as a matter of principle.
Well, maybe you're right.
We'll clean him up and put him in a hotel roomunder bodyguards. We'll make a mystery out of him. Did you speak to Mr. Norton?
Thinks it's terrific. Says for us to go the limit. Wants us to build a bonfire under every big shot in the state.
Oh, swell! Is that the contract?
Yes. What's he doing here?
Friend of his. They play duets together.
Duets? But can we trust him?
Oh!
Well, okay. But we don't want more than a couple o' hundred people in on this thing. Now the first thing I want is an exact copy of the John Doe letter in your own handwriting.
I got it all ready. Here.
Well, that's fine. Now I want you to sign this agreement. It gives us an exclusive story under your name day by day from now until Christmas. On December twentysixth, you get one railroad ticket out of town, and the Bulletin agrees to pay to have your arm fixed. That's what you want, isn't it?
Okay, fellows.
Take it easy, John Doe.
And you! Start pounding that typewriter. Oh, boy! This is terrific! No responsibilities on our part. Just statements from John Doe and we can blast our heads off.
Before you pop too many buttons, don't forget to make out that check for a thousand.
Awwwww!
Yeah, but it's got everybody sore. Ads are being pulledthe Governor's starting a libel suitwhat's more, they all know John Doe's a phoneyand they insist on seeing him.
Well, what about it? Let them see him! We'll go them one better. They can also hear him. You own a radio station, Mr. Norton. Why not put him on the air?
Look. We can't let 'em get to this bushleague pitcher and start pumping him. Good night! No telling what that screwball might do. I walked in yesterdayhere he is, standing on a table with a fishing pole flycasting. Take my advice and get him out of town before this thing explodes in our faces!
If you do, Mr. Norton, you're just as much of a dumb cluck as he is! Excuse me.
No, you've got yourself a meal ticket and you hate to let go.
Sure, it's a meal ticket for me. I admit it, but it's also a windfall for somebody like Mr. Norton who's trying to crash national politics. That's what you bought the newspaper for, isn't it? You wanta reach a lotta people, don't you? Well, put John Doe on the air and you can reach a hundred and fifty million of 'em. He can say anything he wants and they'll listen to him.
What's the idea?
No, no, no. Now that's too much!
Listen. If that guy lays an egg. I want to get something out of it. I'm getting a Jane Doe ready!
That's fine, honey. Now, get out!
Now listen, Annhe can't possibly get in without our seeing him. I'm watching the side door and the Colonel's out front, so stop worrying.
Thank you.
Stick a fork through me! I'm done. I'll never get this speech right.
Oh, yes you will, Ann dear . . . you're very clever.
Yeah, I know. What are you looking for?
Your purse. I need ten dollars.
What for? I gave you fifty just the other day.
Yes, I know, dear, but Mrs. Burke had her baby yesterday. Nine pounds! And there wasn't a thing in the houseand then this morning the Community Chest lady came around and
And the fifty's all gone, huh? Who's the ten for?
The Websters.
The Websters!
You remember those lovely people your father used to take care of? I thought I'd buy them some groceries. Oh, Ann, dear, it's a shame, those poor
You're marvelous, Ma. You're just like Father used to be. Do you realize a couple of weeks ago we didn't have enough to eat ourselves?
Well, yes, I know, dear, but these people are in such need and we have plenty now.
If you're thinking of that thousand dollars, forget it. It's practically gone. We owed everybody in town. Now, you've just gotta stop giving all your money away.
Oh, I'm sorry, Ma. Oh, don't pay any attention to me. I guess I'm just upset about all this. Gee whiz, here I am with a great opportunity to get somewhere, to give us security for once in our lives, and I'm stuck. If I could put this over, your Mrs. Burke can have six babies!
Do you mean the speech you're writing?
Yeah, I don't know. I simply can't get it to jell! I created somebody who's gonna give up his life for a principle, hundreds of thousands of people are gonna listen to him over the radio and, unless he says something that's, well, that's sensational, it's just no good!
Well, honey, of course I don't know what kind of a speech you're trying to write, but judging from the samples I've read, I don't think anybody'll listen.
What?
Darling, there are so many complaining political speeches. People are tired of hearing nothing but doom and despair on the radio. If you're going to have him say anything, why don't you let him say something simple and real, something with hope in it? If your father were alive, he'd know what to say.
Oh, yes, Father certainly would.
Wait a minute . . .
Huh?
That's your father's diary, Ann.
Father's . . . I never knew he had a diary.
There's enough in it for a hundred speeches, things people ought to hear nowadays. You be careful of it, won't you dear? It's always helped keep your father alive for me.
You bet I will, Ma.
Hello there. Well, well! If it isn't the man about town!
All set, Ann?
Huh? Oh, yes. Let's go. Now, let's see. We want some action in these pictures.
That's good.
No, no, no. This man's going to jump off a roof.
Oh.
Here. Wait a minute. Let me comb your hair. Sit down. There. That's better.
. . . Er, this John Doe idea is yours, huh?
Yes, sir.
How much money do you get?
Thirty dollars.
Thirty dollars? Well, er, what are you after? I mean, what do you want? A journalistic career?
Money.
Money? Well, I'm glad to hear somebody admit it. Do you suppose you could write a radio speech that would put that fellow over?
Oh, I'm sure I can.
Do it, and I'll give you a hundred dollars a week.
A hundred dollars!
That's only the beginning. You play your cards right and you'll never have to worry about money again. Oh, I knew it.
Hello. Whenever there's a pretty woman around, er This is my nephew, Ted Sheldon, Miss Mitchell.
How do you do.
Thank you very much for everything.
And, Miss MitchellI think from now on you'd better work directly with me.
Yes, sir.
Better let me talk to him.
All right, but present it to him as a great cause for the common man.
Oh, somebody else sitting there?
No, no, nothat's your seat.
Oh! Oh, it's beautiful, D. B. WellI don't quite know what to say . . .
Well, don't say anything at all. Just sit down.
Oh!
Go ahead, open it, open it.
Tomorrow night, before a crowd of fifteen thousand people, and talking over a nationwide radio hookup, John Doe will announce the formation of a third party.
A third party?
Yes. The John Doe Party.
Devoted entirely to the interests of all the John Does all over the country. Which practically means, ninety per cent of the voters. He will also announce the third party's candidate for the presidency. A man whom he, personally, recommends. A great humanitarian; the best friend the John Does have.
Mr. D. B. Norton!
Hello?
John! I'm so glad to see you. II was terribly worried.
Er, would you, er, would you like to make some money?
Yeah, maybe.
Would you be willing to say you wrote that letterand stick by it?
Oh, I get the idea. Yeah, maybe.
Huh?
Are you all right?
Yeah, I'm all right.
Don't mind the Colonel. He hates people.
He likes you well enough to stick around.
Oh, that's 'cause we both play doohickies. I met him in a box car a couple o' years ago. I was foolin' around with my harmonica and he comes over and joins in. I haven't been able to shake him since.
Action?
Umhum.
Here. Sit down! Quiet, egghead! All right, now, a serious expression.
Can't. I'm feeling too good.
Oh, come on, now. This is serious. You're a man disgusted with all of civilization.
With all of it?
Yes, you're sore at the world. Come on, now.
Oh, crabby guy, huh?
Yeah. No, no! No! No, look. You don't have to smell the world!
Well, all those guys in the bleachers think
Never mind those guys. All right, stand up. Now let's see what you look like when you protest.
Against what?
Against anything. Just protest.
You got me.
Oh, look. I'm the umpire, and you just cut the heart of the plate with your fast one and I call it a ball. What would you do?
Oh, yuh did, huh?
Yes!
Why can't you call right, you bone headed, pigeared, lopeared, pot bellied
Grab it, Eddie, grab it!
Now, look, John. Here's the speech. It's in caps and doublespaced. You won't have any trouble reading it. Not nervous, are you?
No.
Of course not. He wouldn't be.
Who?
John Doe. The one in there.
Who?
John Doe, the one in the speech.
Oh. Yeah.
You know something? I've actually fallen in love with him.
Say, he's a friend of mine.
Never mind. Let him alone. He's all right. I'll be right over there pulling for you.
Hello, John.
Hello.
Look, John. Something terribly important's happened. They're forming John Doe Clubs. We know of eight already and they say that there's going
John Doe Clubs? What for?
Uhhuh. To carry out the principles you talked about in your radio speech.
I don't care what they're forming. I'm on my way and I don't like the idea of being stopped either.
Oh, but you don't know how big this thing is. You should see the thousands of telegrams we've received and what they're saying about you.
Look, it started as a circulation stunt, didn't it?
Uhhuh . . .
Well, you got your circulation. Now, why don't you let me alone?
Oh, it started as a circulation stunt, but it isn't any more. Mr. Norton wants to get back of it and sponsor John Doe Clubs all over the country. He wants to send you on a lecture tour.
Me?
Uhhuh.
Can I help you pack?
No, thank you.
Do you care if I sit down out here?
No.
You know, I had a crazy dream last night. It was about you.
About me?
Sure was crazy. I dreamt I was your father.
Well, would you like to know who it was you were marrying?
Well, a tall handsome Ubangi, I suppose.
No, not that bad. It was a fella that sends you flowers every day. Er, what's his name? Mr. Norton's nephew.
Ted Sheldon.
Yeah, that's the one.
But here's the funniest part of it all. I was the fella up there doing the marrying. You know, the Justice of the Peace or something . . .
You were? I thought you were chasing me?
Well, yes, I was. But I was your father then, see? But the real me, John Doe, er, that is, Long John Willoughby, I was the fellow up there with the book. You know what I mean?
I guess so. Then what happened?
Well, I took you across my knee and I started spanking you.
How many people do you think we've talked to already, outside the radio, I mean?
I don't know. About three hundred thousand.
Three hundred thousand? What makes them do it, Ann? What makes them come and listen and, and get up their John Doe Clubs the way they do? I've been trying to figure it out.
Look, Johnwhat we're handing them are platitudes. Things they've heard a million times: "Love thy neighbor," "Clouds have silver linings," "Turn the other cheek." It's just a
Yeah, I've heard them a million times, too, butthere you are. Maybe they're like me. Just beginning to get an idea what those things mean.
Did you write this?
Yes, I did, John. But II had no idea what was going on.
You didn't?
Go ahead, driver! Ball park!
John, please let me go with you! Please, John!
You're a couple o' sticks shy in your column, Ann.
A big, rich slob like D. B. Norton buys a paperand forty heads are chopped off!
Did you get it, too?
Yeah. You, too? Oh, Joe . . . oh, I'm sorry darling . . . why don't we tear the building down!
Before you do, Ann, perhaps you'd better finish this column.
Yeah. Lavender and old lace!
How is he?
Nice.
Arterial silk.
Ease off on those tapes, and let's see how much it bleeds. How is he?
Nice.
Boys, we're home free.
As long as there's a pileup, we can do our bit to encourage his permanent withdrawal from the contest.
It's a technique Ugly John and I worked out in case something like this came up.
Okay, I'm closing up. Everybody relax.
May I have the surgeon's name, please?
Planes mostly. May take a crack at rickshaws. How does the direct approach work over here?
I been out of action since I got over here five months ago.
What's the bastard really like?
Colonel Merrill is a veteran of twenty five years in the Regular Army, a soldier first and a doctor second. A member of several patriotic organizations, he believes it's America's Godgiven mission to maintain a foothold for freedom on the Asian mainland.
That bad? But I guess you're right. We might as well see him. Got any caddie carts?
Never mind.
The address of the N.E.P.H. and W. Why don't you meet me there when you're through golf for drinks and dinner and whatever strikes the fancy?
Mine's already been struck, and it doesn't have to be very fancy.
Soup? Rice? What are we doing, beginning all over again?
No, we had a clear soup to start. This is a thick one and you ought to taste it. There's nothing like it back home.
How can I taste it now? We've already had like twelve courses.
Can you guys take one minute to look at a kid for me?
Now?
We don't have to see him. Call that halfassed Army hospital and tell them to be ready to put some lipiodol in this kid's esophagus and take X rays.
But it's tenthirty at night. We can't get military personnel out for a civilian. A foreign civilian.
Morning, girls. Good morning Major.
Good morning.
This one goes right to the OR. Tell Duke to do him ahead of the busted spleen. And this kid can't wait. I'll take him myself, before I get to that ruptured diaphragm.
Captain... 'This kid' is a prisoner of war.
Yeah?
It's an American boy's rupture you're supposed to close.
Listen, we get a deluge like this, just deciding priorities on a medical basis is hard enough. So never mind the side issues.
If I can make a suggestion, Coach.
The way I run an organization, any man in it has the right to speak his mind.
In that case, here are ten basic plays. I think that's about all this bunch can handle.
Thank you, Spearchucker. I'll certainly take a look at these. Where the hell did you ever get that name?
I used to throw the javelin.
Those two big guys were tackles on the Cleveland Browns, and the redhead played halfback with the Rams.
They can't do that to me!
Well, there's one big satisfaction.
What's that, Henry?
I outcoached that General Hammond.
O'Reilly!
Yes, sir?
Dammit, Radar, wait till I call you! Tell Major Burns...
One of the surgeons from the day shift will have to stay on duty tonight?
Yes, dammit, and...
O'Reilly, what is it? There aren't more choppers coming?
I'm afraid so, Colonel.
We've got too many wounded for us to handle now! Get on the phone right away and...
Yes, sir, I'll see if I can reach General Hammond in Seoul for you. You think he'll finally break down and give us two more surgeons?
Sir?
Don't do that, Radar! You make me nervous.
Sir?
Don't come so quickly when I call. I want you to take these officers...
To Major Burns' tent. Yes, sir.
Stop that, O'Rielly!
Sir?
Oh, get out of here!
Yes, Colonel.
Good morning, Colonel.
Morning, Radar. How were things?
Splendid, sir. No problems.
Morning, Captain.
Can you make out what they're talking about?
I can try, sir.
Chopper coming in, Colonel. Two of them, I'm afraid.
Damn.
And another one, but it's from the south. There.
What's going on? Who started this?
You mean who hit who?
Yes, that's what I mean.
I did. First and only blow. So far.
If you say so, Henry. But remember my claustrophobia.
I deeply regret this unfortunate incident. We try to remember we're a military organization.
What's wrong with you?
I don't know. I must have lost my punch. I didn't think the sonofa bitch would get up.
We got it, men... HoJon's keep as Androscoggin... if there is such a place. And the big news is, the General wants a rematch.
I'll tell you my news. I'm retiring from football.
I'm Colonel Blake. You fellows just passing through?
Nope, we're assigned heah.
The blonde dish.
If you mean... She is a lieutenant in the Army Nursing Corps, Captain.
Okay, Lieutenant Dish. I guess she's already... involved with somebody here.
They've all tried. Nobody's got to first base.
You don't aim to cause any trouble But?
But we strongly suspect something will happen to screw up this splendid organization of yours if you don't get that sky pilot out of our tent.
Your tent?
We'll find out what they are when you throw us out.
That's all the commitment you're offering me? Or do you have some more extravagant gesture of cooperation?
You work those kind of hours, you got to have rest. Which you can't get with somebody jabbering away on a direct line to heaven.
Major Burns will be out of your tent in twentyfour hours. Tell them Captain Pierce and Captain Forrest are on their way.
About that chestcutter...
I'll try, dddammit! You can't ask any more than that!
We don't want any more than that. Right now.
Stop acting like a colonel, Henry. You know Trapper wouldn't sock him without a good reason.
There's no reason good enough for one medical officer to strike another.
I should fire him because he got in the way of Trapper's fist? No. I've put up with a lot from you guys, but now I finally have to take disciplinary action.
Christ. All of a sudden it's West Point.
First decent idea you've had in a month.
Now I'll have to wait at least a week. If I announced it tomorrow, after what our new Chief Nurse saw this afternoon, they'd hear her yelling from Seoul to Washington.
Fifteenth straight day there've been six o'clock choppers. How long can a battle go on?
You got to relax, Henry. Since the deluge started, you been working in the OR and running the outfit, too.
It's a nice idea. I mean it has style.
It's the only way we can make enough to put HoJon through Androscoggin.
Good morning, Captain Pierce and Captain Forrest.
You can cut the bow.
I have not understood what you means.
That. It's out of the act.
Officer all sleep now, yes? And I go wash clothes.
Right, HoJon. See you later.
Hi, HoJon. How they goin'?
Finest kind. Captain Forrests say you better haul ass home quick. We got new chestcutter in our tent.
There ought to be a law against dentists reading. Matter of fact, I thought there was. Anyway, this is an obsession. He can't be persuaded out of it.
He's comin' thisaway! The jaw breaker!
And if I go to New York, the natives there will carry me? I don't think so.
I don't think so either.
Pain bad, HoJon?
I wouldn't wish it on a maneating shark.
Glad to know you. Drop in at my clinic anytime you feel like playing a little poker, or even if a tooth is bothering you.
Poker sounds great. When do you play?
If a man isn't a man anymore, what's he got left to live for?
Tell me the whole story, Walt.
There's this native broad works in the laundry. I don't know if you've noticed.
There's only one worth noticing.
You noticed. I wasn't going to fool around over here. I've got these three girls I'm engaged to back home...
But I had this feeling I ought to make the effort. To test myself. And I flunked.
What did you have to test, for God's sake... the dental Don Juan of Detroit?
Don Juanism is just a cover... I've been reading up on it. I'm a fake, I'm a fraud, I've been living a lie!
Painless, you mustn't talk that way. It's a lot of crap. Cover for what?
Homosexuality.
Now I know that's been my problem since I was a kid. But it only caught up to me last night.
You've been drawn to other males? Since you were a kid?
No, never in the slightest.
Just in dreams?
Or in dreams either. I repressed it completely. Classic pattern of inhibition.
That's what you've been doing all these years with every dame you could lay your hands on? Repressing your real self?
But it's all over now, and I can't face it. Imagine if you found out you were one, you wouldn't like breaking the news to your wife. Well, I got the same problem multiplied.
You don't have any problem. You've got thirty good years ahead of you, easy. Maybe you'll have to cut down as you grow older, get along with just two fiancees, but...
No, one thing I finally know for sure, I'll never function with a woman again.
That's really what I came here for. See what you guys recommend.
Well, I'm sure my colleagues will agree there are a number of dependable measures for extinguishing the vital forces.
In the direction you want to go.
You guys got any black capsules?
How much time do I have?
Just about enough to say goodbye to everybody. Line up over here, men, if you want to pay your last respects. Keep moving and file on out when you're through.
I wonder, if Red's fix swings it for me, what's heaven really like?
Morning Painless. How they goin'?
Big day. Two jaws to rebuild.
He's the pro from Dover and I'm the Ghost of Smokey Joe.
Save that crap for the rest of the clamdiggers back home.
The real Trapper John? The one who threw you the famous pass and went to greater glory on the Boston and Maine Railroad?
The one and only.
Proud to know you, Trapper. Like to shake your hand if you'll hurry up and get that chest closed. You still working the trains?
You don't go after the local scrunch?
I'm too busy, actually. Not for the Army, of course, but where I live. Dr. Yamachi's New Era Pediatric Hospital and Whorehouse. I'm serious. The guy has this crude hospital for kids and a whorehouse on the side to finance it, all in the same building.
What do you do in the joint besides pimp?
That's about the only thing I don't do that I'm built for. I inspect the girls and take care of some of the kids in the hospital. Sometimes I tend bar and act as bouncer.
Why can't you look at him?
I have but well, you know, I've been mainly an anesthetist a long time now and... well, I'd like you guys to take a look at him.
What's the story?
Well, one of the girls got careless and two days ago she gave birth to an eightpound AmericanJapanese male.
What's wrong with him?
Every time we feed him, it either comes right back up or he coughs and turns blue and has a hell of a time.
He's coming to.
Let's get his clothes off quick.
Captain Camembert! Captain Camembert!
Excuse me, Sergeant.
Yes, Reverend?
What do you want with those two medical officers?
They're supposed to hold shortarm inspection.
Be the longest shortarm inspection you ever held!
Thanks, Reverend. Thank you both for tipping me off. You don't know a Captain Forrest or a Captain Pierce, do you?
They missed the boat.
Thanks.
Glad to help.
Twoman job. How much blood has he had?
Second pint.
Duke...
It was really nice of you to take me along.
I didn't have much choice.
You really say the cutest things.
Yeah!
You please excuse... I have been making examination of this young man to find if he will be soldier in our army.
Yes, I know. Hi, HoJon. How did it go?
I don't liking it at all, what I hear when I listen to the heart. And such a blood pressure for so young a boys. Is frightening.
I'm sorry to hear that. You think he's unfit for military service?
At first is no doubt. But then I am seeing on his paper he work in American hospital. And I think there are so many drugs in such a places, he could take some by mistake.
Why would he do that?
Who is knowing? But the drug I have find in his urine is solving all mysteries. By tomorrow will be gone his fast heart and high blood pressure. So I think maybe you will like to tell him goodbye. Okay?
Isn't this ridiculous, Doctor? Six months I've been here and there are still times when I can't stand it. I just go to pieces.
There's nothing ridiculous about it. A kid like you...
Thank you, Captain Pierce. It's been so long.
No trouble at all. Hawkeye.
How did you get called that?
'The Last of the Mohicans.' Only book my father ever read.
You're getting a workout, you and Captain Forrest, your first night.
It isn't always this rough?
Oh, no. We have dull stretches every week or so, thank God, when there's nothing to do after midnight.
They don't have to be dull. I mean if you and me put our minds together...
Our minds?
For a start. I just have a hunch... well, it isn't entirely a hunch...
You're an attractive man.
You have a certain modest charm yourself.
But I'm married.
Something else we have in common.
Very happily married.
Same here.
And absolutely determined to be faithful to my husband. Do we have that in common, Captain?
It's a matter of definition. Faithful in spirit, yes.
I don't make the distinction. But the sex urge is a powerful force. In women just as much as men.
Ayuh.
You'd think now, with only six weeks before they ship me back home, it would be easier. But it isn't.
Of course not.
It's terribly hard. Sometimes the temptation is just too much.
Then why not, as long as it wouldn't hurt anybody...?
But you've made me feel strong again, Captain. Hawkeye. You helped me pull together when I needed it.
Even if I weren't.
Maria...
I couldn't have slept tonight anyhow.
You're leaving tomorrow?
In less than twelve hours I'll be on my way.
That's when the real strain starts. Three weeks on a troopship. Poor baby.
Dear, sweet Hawkeye.
Though I guess who it'll really be rough on is your husband.
You're on his side all of the sudden?
A man would be more considerate. He wouldn't come home to his wife a nervous wreck.
How would he avoid it... as if I needed to ask?
It could be a purely impersonal thing. What matters is the therapeutic value of relieving your tensions.
You should have been a marriage counselor. But I'll show you what's wrong with your theory.
Do you think anything between us could be impersonal? Or pure? You better forget logic, because you're proving why I shouldn't go to bed with you.
I didn't mean with me.
You're asking for somebody else?
It happens to be a matter of life and death.
A man is going to die if he doesn't have my fair young body?
Precisely, Maria. Tonight you have the same privilege that comes on rare occasions to the chief executive of some state or nation... the privilege of restoring life, by one tender act of mercy, to a doomed fellow creature.
He should come to now for a while, but he's got so much dope in him by tomorrow he won't know fact from fantasy.
You think he won't.
What do you care? You'll be on your way to Japan.
I'm fond of Painless, and I'd feel terrible if anything happened to him...
It's your decision, Maria. I don't want to highpressure you.
I'd be crazy to think my virtue, such as it is, was more important than his life...
In fact I'd rather not try to influence you at all. Let's just go in and take a look, and then you think it through for yourself.
Listen, we look pretty lousy out there, right?
Well, for college players that have been out of training seven or eight years...
I'm thinking about how we can make more money. Suppose we bet only part of our dough and keep this big animal out of the game the whole first half and let them roll up some points. Then you could bet the rest of our bundle between the halves and get the General and his friends to give us some real odds.
The bastards outconned us.
I think we could still have a chance.
If you start the game instead of waiting, you mean?
No, let's stick to that strategy till we see whether you boys can do two things. The first is get that halfback out of the game. He had one year with the Rams before the Army got him, but he didn't play too often because he's one of those hot dogs.
What's the matter?
We may be in trouble, I can't catch my breath. I've got the occupational disease of oversized exathletes.
See you.
It's possible
Hang in there.
Captain Pierce, would I be imposing...?
Honey, nobody as pretty as you could ever impose... please sit down. Coffee?
Captain, I've been observing the nurses on your shift. But naturally your own opinion is more informed than mine.
I'm glad you feel that way, Major, because you see it's a team effort... doctors, nurses, enlisted men... and I feel responsible for my whole team, and I want you to know I'm satisfied with them.
All of them?
That's right. We work well together.
Major Burns is far from satisfied.
That don't surprise me. If you're a good observer, you must have observed by now that Frank Burns is a jerk.
On the contrary, I've observed he's not only a good technical surgeon, he's a good military surgeon. And that includes how a man dresses and how he bears himself and his sense of what it means to be an officer in the United States Army.
And his track record, that don't count? Look, honey, when you watch the two shifts try to notice which one does the most work with the least fuss.
I've noticed that both nurses and enlisted men address you as 'Hawkeye.'
It's my name. Maybe that sounds silly to you but...
That kind of familiarity is inconsistent with maximum efficiency in a military organization.
Okay, Major, honey. I'm going to have a couple shots scotch and go to bed. I'd normally ask you to join me but obviously you're a female version of the routine Regular Army clown. And that turns me off, so just leave my outfit alone and we'll get along fine. See you around the campus.
I wonder how a degenerated person like you could have reached a position of responsibility in the Army Medical Corps.
Sister, if I knew the answer to that I sure as hell wouldn't be here.
Hey, Knocko, I got those pictures you promised to look at of my kids. You too, Wilma. It won't take a minute. You can see them too, if you want.
No, thank you. I'm not the slightest bit interested.
I think I've seen this nut somewhere. Haven't I?
If you don't know what you've seen, why should I?
That's the front up the road a few miles. We have to get by without some of the comforts of home.
I like an olive.
Lucky you didn't have your mouth open or it would have gone down your throat.
He's Trapper John! Only man in history who ever found fulfillment in the ladies' can of a Boston and Maine Railroad car! When the Conductor caught him in there with his Winter Carnival date, she screamed: 'He trapped me!' What have you been doing since those days, Trapper?
What are they peeking at? Captain Waldowski in the shower?
Part of him. Painless is the owner and operator of the Pride of Hamtrack. That's where he comes from... Hamtrack, Michigan.
...But I turned in my knee pads.
HoJon, give the Father some more martini.
Black capsule.
The black capsule. Finest kind. Thank you, Dr. McIntyre.
We're throwing him a Last Supper. We came to invite you.
The Painless Pole plans to cross the Great Divide tonight and we need your help to straighten him out.
Or you can let him knock himself out. You personally'd be sending him to his grave.
An eternal damnation.
We stand behind all our work.
You want it straight? Medical history records no instance of anyone taking this particular prescription and surviving.
It's a bedroom where a man is always at his peak and doesn't have to take any time outs.
And all the angels are built like Lieutenant Dish.
Very well, Your Majesty. Congratulations, Frank. He picked you.
No, no, that one.
Oh, you want to play it straight? I guess I owe you an apology.
I came within about ten yards of you. You know something, Trapper, the way we been going, if we ever got to see a real golf course again, I bet we could burn it up.
As far as the greens maybe. I don't know if my putting would come back or not, without some practice.
I'm not so sure the goddam thing's in his heart.
'Course it isn't, but how many chances do we get to go to Japan? With our golf clubs.
Let me translate. I've had some exposure to the language. The young man is from Brooklyn and he wants us to vacate this vehicle.
But weren't you supposed to meet the surgeons who are going to slice up the Congressman's son?
But besides the operation, we've got to get in at least eighteen holes of golf.
So let's haul ass, Sergeant.
Look.
Beautiful. What do you think? Should we stop and play nine holes now and operate on the kid later? If he's still alive.
Don't worry, son. That's Captain McIntyre, and he's the best chest surgeon in the Far East and maybe in the whole U.S. Army. He'll fix you up fine. Your daddy saw to that.
Just like we thought, it's a routine problem. Nurse, who's in charge of operating room preparations?
Did I ever tell you about Me Lay Marston?
Your high school friend who went around saying 'Me lay, you lay?' to all the young females in the community. As I remember, you said it was quite a successful approach.
Well, he wouldn't score more than once in seven or eight tries, but the important thing was he didn't waste time socializing. Anyway, Trapper John, this is Me Lay.
Please! Face it, Colonel, you don't have us, we have you. Your boys blew this case, we bailed you out. We figure we ought to hang around a day to check the Congressman's kid, and we also figure to play some golf. So if that's okay with you, we got a deal.
And if it isn't, why don't we call Washington on your telephone? You tell your story, we'll tell ours.
When you make up your mind, get in touch. The golf club is probably the best place to leave a message.
Come on, Trapper. We got to forget golf for today.
I don't know why. As long as it's light enough to see your caddie.
What's the age of consent in this country?
Is he out?
Like the Rock of Gibraltar.
Best thing you could do for all of us is grab some sack time.
Radar!
For you, Trapper.
Okay, but I'll need you to help. Duke, will you take that belly back there? The Australian?
It's in pretty deep.
Yeah, and he's lost a lot of blood. I'm afraid it's hit more that just the lung.
Christ, it's HoJon!
Hiya, HoJon. You got a piece of a shell in your chest, but we'll take it out as soon as you've had more blood. Hey, Radar!
If we squeeze him through, I'm going to get him into Androscoggin College.
How about squeezing him through into Dartmouth? If all he wants to do is catch lobsters, he can learn that here.
Dartmouth's too big and too expensive. If he's as good as I think he is, he can move into the big league later. But Androscoggin first.
We'll need room. The sixth rib goes.
Never mind the conversation. Do it, Dad.
You aspirate the blood from the chest cavity. Damn, there's more of it than I thought.
If we don't get that pint, he's in trouble.
I don't feel anything.
Oh, Jesus.
I can't feel it now either. The mother must have gone in.
I don't get it.
It was in the cava and the hole sealed itself off. I must have jiggled it just enough to turn it loose. I can't feel it in the heart or the right pulmonary artery. So it's in the left pulmonary artery.
What do we do?
We'll have to close this hole and make one on the other side.
Be kind of rough on him if there's no blood. Why don't we close up and sit on him a couple of days?
Sure, that's the right way... at John Hopkins or someplace. But how do we know there won't be even more of a jamup a few days from now? Maybe we won't be able to get to him when we want to. Maybe the goddam thing'll erode the artery when nobody's looking. Our best shot is now.
It's five minutes into nurses' shower hour. Where are they?
They're coming.
But he's got five times the manpower to draw on.
We can balance that by getting ourselves a ringer. Henry has to say he needs a neurosurgeon and put in a specific request for Dr. Oliver Harmon Jones.
He only lasted one season.
On account he got caught in the doctor draft. He was a surgical resident playing semipro ball weekends when the Eagles signed him.
So what makes you think he'll play for us?
We'll cut him in on the bets we make. And still have enough profit to send HoJon to college.
Might make kind of a social issue, not having any other Negro officer.
He can move in here with us.
But we'd have to break his leg or something to keep him out of the game for good.
Not necessarily.
What for?
We need medical officers for short arm inspection starting the first afternoon out.
Oh, certainly, Sergeant. My name is Captain George Limburger, and this is Captain Walter Camembert.
CAMEM...?
BERT, right. See you tomorrow.
Oh, I'm not sailing with you. I work out of the hospital here.
I only wanted to know what she's like in the sack. Do those big boobs hold up or are they kind of droopy?
Hawkeye's asking the Major's opinion on a point of anatomy.
Also I'm curious whether she's a moaner or...
Anegative. I've crossmatched it.
I though you said we didn't have a drop.
I found a doner.
Radar!
All you have to do is ask. The quarterback is saying they'll run the old Statue of Liberty. Their left end will come across and take the ball out of his hand and try to get around our left end.
Gimme three.
At ease. Captain Pierce, you have a seriously wounded patient for whom you are responsible. Yet I find you in a poker game.
You betcher ass, Dad.
What?
Pierce! That soldier requires immediate attention. I'm a surgeon and I know.
You betcher ass, General.
I'm going to play poker until three a.m. or until the patient is ready for surgery. However, if you'd like to operate on him yourself right now, be my guest. I get the same dough whether I work or not.
I want to talk to you, Pierce.
There's nothing to talk about, General. You take the case yourself or join me at three o'clock. Either way you're liable to learn something.
Now, General, I'm going to sandbag you. Do you think we're ready to get out of this belly?
Obviously you don't think so, and I don't know why.
Well, Dad, we haven't found any holes in the large bowel. They've all been in the small bowel, but the smell is different. I caught a whiff of large bowel, but it ain't staring us in the face, right?
Right.
So if it ain't staring us in the face, it's got to be retroperitoneal. And that, along with the look of the wounds, makes me figure he's got a hole in his sigmoid colon that we won't find unless we look for it.
And there it is.
I'm impressed, Pierce. Naturally, the kind of job I have, I don't get much chance to keep up with what goes on in the OR.
Neither does Henry Blake. But I'll tell you what makes him the best C.O. you've got in any of your hospitals. He leaves all the medical decisions to the men who do the day today work and understand what meatball surgery is.
Well, it's still pretty much in the talk stage.
We had a team at the 325th Evac last fall. I coached the boys myself.
I think I heard about that.
Now we're working out a schedule of the outfits we're going to play this year. We all chip into a pool and make bets.
Must be fun. But the point we want to make about Henry...
I'm sure we could find a date for your team. Why don't I take it up with Henry? Thanks for the drink, boys.
If we had closer relations, there wouldn't be any misunderstandings. That's where a football game would help. Between your outfit and mine.
A football game?
Special Services in Tokyo are all for it. They say it's one of the main gimmicks we have to keep the American way of life going here in Asia.
But what about Major Houlihan?
You mean Hot Lips? Screw her.
Nnno thanks, GGeneral.
The hell we won't! You bastards pulled something, I don't know what, but we've been beating you without him. Ane we'll go on beating you!
You willing to bback that up with odds?
Damn right. Three to one, as much as you want to put up.
Is that liquor?
Finest kind. We're training HoJon to be a bartender. Join us?
Give us this day our daily...
You ever caught this bread, and forgive our syndrome before, Duke?
...trespasses as we forgive those who trespass against...
...And for our young men on the field of battle, that they may return home to their dear ones...
Come clean with us, Frank. Were you on this religious kick back home, or did you start to crack up here on the post?
...And for our Supreme Commander over here and our CommanderinChief in Washington.
I was just asking...
Shut up or I'll tear you apart.
There's no point appealing to Colonel Blake. They've got him bewitched.
No. The only thing to do is write General Hammond. But it's hard to find a place around here for a private discussion.
I have a tent to myself.
People will talk.
I don't mind. If we give them something to talk about.
I think it's a marvelous letter.
We're a good team.
We think the same way.
It's supper time. But you're not hungry are you?
Ravenous. What about you?
Well, sure, if you are, Margaret...
Anyway, we want to get this letter off.
Godless buffoons, all of them.
It's that disrespect for you, that's what I can't forgive them.
Oh, I'm used to it. What makes me sore is how they behave towards you. They ought to be grateful to have you. I certainly am.
And I'm grateful for you, Frank, especially with those boors around. We've grown very close in a short time.
Frank...
Don't stop now! Please...
Wait a second...
I can't... couldn't.
My name's Hawkeye Pierce.
Duke Forrest.
You got directions?
Ayuh, only it's early, I need a drink to wake me up.
I got some.
Make it yourself, or is it real?
Georgia, where I come from, it's real if you make it yourself. But I been buying from the Yankee Government since they put me in this soldier suit and give me a rate.
Taxfree booze. It's about all you can say for army life.
Where you from with that crazy way of talking?
Crabapple Cove. Maine.
Damn! That must be about as far north as you can get.
Pretty near. What do you know about the outfit we're going to?
C.O. is Colonel Blake. Lieutenant Colonel Henry Braymore Blake. One of them regular army clowns. Push you around so it's hard to get any decent work done.
We got to head them off, right at the start. Push them around first.
What's the initials 'MP' stand for, Hawkeye?
Shore Patrol, Duke. Let's go!
Must be the Famous Curb Service Whore House. You in the market Duke?
I done my shopping in Seoul last night.
Well, there it is. Jesus!
The spot we picked to spend the winter. Maybe we ought to look a little harder.
What do you think of that piece of scenery, Yankee boy?
Finest kind. We'll sit where we can get the best view.
Colonel Blake, have no fear. Hawkeye and Duke are here.
That's right, pal. You just sit up front and sign the mail, and leave the cutting to us.
Little light reading matter. Just right for his age.
Well, southern boy, I suppose you want the sack that's convenient to the door.
And gets the wind every time it opens. No, thanks. I'll take that one.
This kid's ready but we won't know all the damage till we get in and see what's happened. What have you got?
Nothing can't wait. Shall we check it out with the Major?
Now that's what I call real pretty. We can close up here and go into his belly.
He can't take much more time on the table.
So we got to cut him fast. I figure from the Xray it ain't just the spleen. We also got to snatch his right kidney.
Christ Almighty, I think he means it!
We been had.
We've stuck it out for a whole week now... Pretty girl.
We sure don't aim to cause any trouble... Yeah, she seems to grow on you.
No, Hawkeye just said it all.
Except we forgot one other small thing.
What's that?
The chestcutter.
Yeah, that's right. You better get us a chestcutter before there's trouble.
This outfit needs somebody who can find his way around the pulmonary anatomy when the bases are loaded.
And it's the ninth inning.
Jesus to Jesus and eight hands around! Duke, did I ever tell you how I beat Dartmouth by intercepting a pass?
Sixteen times.
We didn't have a chance, little Androscoggin College against the Big Green, but there was this blizzard and we held then nothing nothing till the last twenty seconds. Then this great passer of theirs let one go, snow and all...
Must be Painlees Pole Day in the Shower Tent.
You met him. Walt Waldowski, the Dental Officer.
Nice guy, for an enamel surgeon.
Best equipped dentist in the whole goddam Army. Care to have a look, a man with your background?
Way we hear it, the Pride is supposed to have run up the highest lifetime batting average ever recorded in Wayne County.
This kid looks like a loser. Maybe we better get the beadjiggler to put in a fix.
Call Dago Red.
And you've had a natural four times in a row in a crap game. Right? Does that mean...?
Not without lots of praying and kissing the dice. It's a different ritual but it works the same.
What do you think, Trapper?
Y'all just act natural.
Get out the scotch, HoJon. Don't mention the sex thing unless he brings it up.
That there Frank Burns is a menace. Whenever a patient croaks on him it's either God's will or somebody else's fault.
This time he did it to a kid who's simple enough to believe him. Why don't you dump the mother, Henry? He creates more work than he gets done.
Hail to the chief! Weall got a responsibility, men. He's crowned like a king ought to be, but he can't just walk to the Mess Hall by himself. He has to be carried by native bearers.
Good thinking, Duke. How about it, HoJon? Can you round up a few of the boys?
Never mind. Forget it.
A native is someone who is born in a particular place.
When will he be able to write?
What's he got to write, for God's sake?
An application to Androscoggin College.
I guess that's why you go for Hot Lips Houlihan.
You know damn well I nearly puke when I look at her. I don't even think she's a real blonde.
How can you say a thing like that about an officer in the United States Army?
I not only say it, I'll back it up twenty buck's worth.
You got yourself a bet, Georgia boy. You're a witness.
Where the hell we going to get us a football team?
All three of us played for our schools. And there are at least four other guys...
Never heard of him.
Sure you have, only as 'Spearchucker' Jones.
The nigra boy with the Philadelphia Eagles?
How come nobody knows about him? And you do?
I worked with Spearchucker my first month over here, at the 72nd Evac in Taegu. Most of the colored guys know who he is but they're not talking because he asked them not to.
Now wait a minute, Hawkeye. I come a long way, learning to put up with a couple of crazy Yankees, but...
Don't tell me about your problems, boy. Explain them to HoJon.
Look at the size of those two beasts.
I don't think I could hurt one of them with a sledgehammer.
Don't try to get it far down. Kick it up high so we can get there and surround that sonofabitch.
Yeah, if I can.
Me, too. Y'all just seen me play my last game.
Same here. You can retire my number.
Henry's got our orders! We're going home!
When?
Any time. Whenever we want.
Be right with you.
There's no transportation anyway this time of night.
We could steal one of the choppers.
I looked. Suspicious bastards got them all locked up.
I thought we were heading for trouble putting on all these trinkets.
We got to start rehabilitating, Duke, if we want to be halfway human by the time we get back to our wives.
But no shortarm inspection. I'm with you there.
Screw it. We been earning our keep as respectable knife artists. Why should we do work any pillrolling punk could handle?
Hell, man, that don't matter. We're loaded. We were big wheels in the black market in Seoul.
Plus running the opium concession for the whole Eighth Army.
Let's hear from you, you goddam Yankee. Be nice to see you some time.
Like the Spearchucker said, that's possible. Anyway, it's been an interesting association.
What?
When he sees a little running room, he likes to make a show... you know, stutter steps and crossovers and all that jazz. Also he never learned to button up when he gets hit, so if you two can get a good shot at him once, you can hurt him.
We got to stop them right here.
And get ourselves another touchdown to win. I wish to hell we knew what they were plotting.
You mind if we get out of this guy's brain first?
What's there to do? You found the sliver.
There might be another tiny piece we missed. I want to look around before we close up.
Perfectionist.
Thou. For Thou art with me. Welcome, welcome, welcome!
What the hell's going on here?
This is HoJon, my houseboy. Our houseboy. I'm teaching him English.
Where's he gonna use that kind of talk? 'The valley of the shadow of death.' Wait a minute, HoJon... I got something for you.
But first will you please kindly shut the goddam door?
I don't drink intoxicants.
I don't believe it's right for you to involve a boy who's not seventeen years old yet...
The door, Frank, the door! Where you from anyhow, Alaska?
Wisconsin.
Same general idea.
So long, HoJon.
You make a mean martini, kid.
Us. Lead us not into...
...No cases over the age of temptation but deliver us eight. from evil. For Thine is the kingdom, the power and...
Because is not democrash? All peoples created equal?
Hey, you been sneaking some reading outside the frigging Bible!
I have great interest for America, his peoples and his custom.
Good, because we got a fine old American custom we want to teach you. You know what these are?
I don't think I should have opened my big mouth. Sorry, HoJon.
That's okay. Live a little, learn a little.
You must open me up again?
No, HoJon, we're not going to open you up.
Now I got you for a witness, I'm going to try again. So far all I dragged out of him is he's from Bahston and he's only been in the Army two months. Where were you when they drafted you?
Home.
I mean, what were you doing? Were you a resident or on a staff someplace?
That's right.
Where?
Hospital.
Which hospital?
Back home.
Is there any reason why we shouldn't know the name of it?
No. Or why you should.
Don't you use olives?
Where you think you are, boy? They probably never seen a olive in this country.
How you, Walt? We was just fixing to have a nightcap.
Pour one for Painless.
Miss you, Walt.
He said it for us all, Walt.
Pulse, slow, very little pressure.
Look at that right eye.
Epidural hematoma?
I don't know what else. You've been that route a little, haven't you?
Not enough to be a pro.
She had this shiny black hair piled up on her head, but later on she let it hang loose and I'll be damned if it didn't come all the way down to her ass.
I've always had a hankering for blonde pussy myself. My wife's hair is a wonderful golden yellow, and this time of year it gets even lighter.
Okay, I'm a witness, but how do you prove who's right?
There's only one way.
It certainly isn't Henry's fault Hot Lips Houlihan doesn't like her name.
Or her figger.
Well, he's taken care of. Scratch one hot dog.
You really think we hurt him that bad?
Hell, no, all you did was knock the wind out of him. But he won't be playing any more football today.
Y'all mind the store.
Four goddam months. And they don't even give you time off for good behavior.
Y'all were short a couple cutters and we're what the Army sent.
Don't you know the first thing you're supposed to do at a new post is present yourself to the commanding officer with your orders?
Reckon so, but we been boozing all day and you work up an appetite.
You're welcome to one of these, whatever they are.
They give you copies to burn.
Good. You've both been working close to the front.
Never this close.
They've hit us on Cherry Hill. I just got word. We have our slack periods but when the action starts, you'll have more work in twelve hours than a civilian surgeon does in a week.
I may need you to go to work practically immediately. But meanwhile perhaps you'd like to meet some of your fellow officers.
Just one for a start.
Yeah, maybe move that nurse in. She don't seem the type to keep you awake praying.
I have been in this Army a long time. I know just what you guys are up to. But there are limits...
Yes, O'Reilly?
How you, Radar?
You boys'll have to go to work early.
You fixing to add overtime to a twelve hour day? The union ain't gonna like it.
What are you going to do with him?
Well... I was going to name you Chief Surgeon... To consult on both shifts, yours and Frank's.
Hey, that's great, Henry! Good thinking!
Stop him! Stop that man!
Sure, you just blindfold him first and tie him to a stake.
There's sort of a builtin prayer for the sick man to get well, but of course that's not the basic intention.
I don't care about the intention. I just know your Cross Action is a plus on our side. I've seen it come through four times.
We wanted to tell you how you were helping us with your fixes.
Well, sure, but I'm also worried about Walt Waldowski Painless. His poker players got in an argument and asked him for a ruling, and he said what difference did it make, it was just a card game.
How they goin', Losing Preacher? What do you hear from the Pope?
You talked to Walt?
He's parted his moorings.
What do you want me to do?
Put in one of your fixes. Walt knows he's loused himself with the Church, but it's part of our plan to make him think he has the keys to the kingdom. Which he will think if you grease the skids for him.
I don't think I can give absolution to a man who's about to commit suicide. It's a mortal sin.
What is, Red, the intention or the act?
I believe it takes both. I'd have to look it up.
Just use common sense. Your job is preventing sin, and the way to do that is give him your best Cross Action.
Nice looking kid. Going to be okay?
He'll live if that's what you mean. But somebody better be around when he comes to and finds out there's nothing left between his legs.
What do I do with it Hawk? This is a little out of my line.
Didn't recognize you, Red. When you get the clamp all the way down, open it as wide as you can and see if you can close it on the artery.
Well, I'll tell you, Aunt Theresa...
Lemme tell it, Tommy.
Okay.
We want you to do a very big favor for us, Aunt Theresa.
That's very nicea you, Aunt Theresa.
How's Marty been lately, Aunt Theresa?
Marty, I don't know how to tell you how much I appreciate what you and your mother are doing, because the kinda thing was happening in our house was Virginia was in the kitchen making some milk for the baby. So my mother comes in...
Tommy, I promised the babysitter six o'clock.
Tommy!
I'll see you at mass tomorrow. We'll sit down and we'll discuss the whole thing.
Don't you think I feel lousy about this too?
All right, Ginnie. I don't wanna talk anymore about it. I don't think I got one hour's sleep the whole night. Last night was the first time in my life I ever heard my mother cry, you know that?
Tommy...
I don't wanna talk about it!
I know what you're gonna say. A man's gotta stop being his mother's baby sooner or later. How many times you gonna say it? She's my mother, you know. I oughta have some feelings about her, don't you think?
Why do you always put me inna position of being the louse?
Virginia, I don't wanna hear no more about it!
Tommy...
I don't wanna hear anymore about it, you hear me?
Wadda you so sore about?
Oh shaddup, will you do me a favor?
What about the time she wanted to make an oldfashioned Italian dinner for my brother, but you wouldn't let her!?
Waddaya talking about?!!
Once a month you couldn't let her use the kitchen!
I told her she could use the kitchen any time she wanted...
...You hadda be the boss inna kitchen alla time!
She don't wanna use my pots and pans!
He coming home right now.
So what happened, Aunt Theresa, about the milk bottle was my motherin law, she comes inna kitchen, Aunt Theresa, and she begins poking her head over my shoulder here and poking her head over my shoulder there, so then she begins telling me how I waste money and how I can't cook, and how I'm raising my baby all wrong, so she got me so nervous, I spilled some milk I was making for the baby...
She was here, you know, Wednesday, and I said, "Catherine, my sister..."
So she say, "You're spilling the milk." So she kept talking about these coupla drops of milk I spilled, so she got me so mad, so I said, "Mama, you wanna see me really spill some milk?" So I took the bottle, and I threw it against the door. I didn't throw it at her. That's just something she made up. She goes around telling everybody I threw the bottla milk at her. I didn't throw it anywheres near her. Well, I was sorry right away, you know, but she ran outta the house.
Well, I don't know what you want me to do, Virginia. If you want me, I'll go talk to her tonight.
Sure.
Aunt Theresa, you got this big house here. I mean, you got this big house just for you and Marty. And I thought maybe Tommy's mother could come here and live with you and Marty.
Well...
Because I called up Tommy's brother Joe, and I said, "Joe, she's driving me crazy. Why don't you take her for a couple of years?" And he said, "Oh no!" I know I sound like a terrible woman...
No, Virginia, I know how you feel.
I just can't stand it any more! Every minute of the day! Do this! Do that! I don't have ten minutes privacy with my husband! We can't even have a fight! We don't have no privacy! Everybody's miserable in our house!
I'm sorry we gotta rush like this...
That's all right, that's all right...
On accounta...
I'm gonna see you tonight...
We didn't tell her anything yet. We thought that we'd leave it to you. We thought you'd put it like how you were lonely, and why don't she come to live with you. Because that way it looks like she's doing you a favor, insteada we're throwing her out, and it won't be so cruel on her. Do you want Tommy and me to stay here with you?
I think it be a better idea if you and Thomas go out, because otherwise she's gonna start a fight with you, and everybody's gonna be yelling.
Listen, let's go downa Kaplans' apartment. They told us to come down.
Sure, sure.
All right, Ginnie, don't get so excited.
She's right. She's right. Young husband and wife, they should have their own home. And my sister Catherine, she's my sister, but I gotta admit, she's an old goat. And plentya times in my life, I feel like throwing the milk bottle at her myself. And I tell you now, as far as I'm concerned, if Catherine wantsa come live here with me and Marty, it's all right with me.
That's very nicea you, Aunt Theresa.
We gotta ask Marty, of course.
Sure.
You just sit here, I gotta turn the fire on under the cooking.
Oh, he'll get married, don't worry, Aunt Theresa.
Well, I don't know. He sits arounna house alla time. You know a place he can go where he can find a bride?
Well, there's the Stardust Ballroom. That's a kind of a big dance hall. Every Saturday night, it's just loaded with girls. It's a nice place to go. You pay seventyseven cents. It used to be seventyseven cents. It must be about a buck and half now. And you go in and you ask some girl to dance. That's how I met Virginia. Nice, respectable place to meet girls. You tell Marty, Aunt Theresa, you tell him, "Go to the Stardust Ballroom. It's loaded with tomatoes."
The Stardust Ballroom. It's loaded with tomatoes.
Right.
He says okay, it's all right Catherine comes here.
Oh, Marty, thanks a lot. That really takes a load offa my mind.
I just wanna thank you people again, because the situation was just becoming impossible.
Siddown, Thomas, siddown.
Hello, Aunt Theresa.
Hello, Thomas.
I just this minute got the baby to sleep.
Aunt Theresa, we figure the best way to ask her is you say that you're very lonely, see? And wouldn't she come and keep you company, because that way, you see...
Don't worry. I'm gonna take carea the whole thing.
Ma, you want something to eat, some tuna fish?
Hey, why don't you go to the movie? Your mother and me, we're gonna be babysitter.
Hello, Aunt Theresa.
Hello, Thomas, how do you feel?
Ah, my mother, she drives me crazy. I hadda beg her to let me drive her over here. The martyr. She always gotta be the big martyr.
Your kid brother got married last Sunday, eh, Marty?
That's right, Missus Fusari. It was a very nice affair.
That's the big tall one, the fellow with the moustache.
No, that's my other brother, Freddie. My other brother Freddie, he's been married four years already. He lives down on Webb Avenue. The one who got married Sunday, that was my little brother, Nickie.
I thought he was a big tall fat fellow. Didn't I meet him here one time? Big tall, fat fellow, he tried to sell me life insurance?
No, that's my sister Margaret's husband, Frank. My sister Margaret, she's married to the insurance salesman, and my sister Rose, she married a contractor. They moved to Detroit last year. And my other sister Frances, she got married about two and a half years ago in Saint John's Church on Kingsbridge Avenue. Oh, that was a big affair. Well, let's see now, that'll be about a dollar seventynine. How's that with you?
Well...
When you gonna get married, Marty? You should be ashamed of yourself. All your brothers and sisters, they all younger than you, they married and they got children. I just saw your mother inna fruit shop, and she says to me, "Hey, you know a nice girl for my boy Marty?" Watsa matter with you? That's no way. Now you get married.
Missus Fusari, Missus Canduso over there, she's inna big hurry, and...
My son Frank, he was married when he was nineteen years old. Watsa matter with you?
That's swell, Missus Fusari.
You should be ashamed of yourself.
So these two girls come over to the bar...
Hey, Ang'...
...and they sit down right next to me...
You want a beer, Ang'?
I look over at this one nexta me, not bad, about thirtyfive  Hiya, Marty...
Hiya, Ralph...
...I been talking about two nurses Leo and me picked up in a bar on SeventyFirst Street.
Hey, Lou, gimme two bottlesa beer...
So, Marty, lemme tell you about these nurses, Marty...
Waddaya read there, Joe?
So, Marty, let me tell you about these nurses...
What nurses?
The nurses Leo and me picked up last night. We got a date with them tonight.
You still owe me ten bucks from last week, if that's what you're working up to.
Hello, Ralph.
Hey, Marty, come over here a minute.
Waddaya mean, Ralph?
Hey, Louise, I want you to meet Marty Pilletti. Marty, that's Louise Kelly, inna back seat there.
Hiya.
I'm with a girl, Ralph.
Get ridda her. This is money inna bank.
I can't do that, Ralph, because somebody already brushed her off once tonight.
This is a good deal here, Marty.
Hello, Ralph. How'd you make out with those nurses last night, Ralph?
Oh man, you shoulda come with us last night, Marty. That one for you was a real lunatic. How'd you make out?
Hello, Marty, when you coming home? Where you now? Because your cousin Thomas and his wife Virginia, they're here. They had another fight with your Aunt Catherine... I don't know...
I'm coming home right now, Ma. I'll be home in about two minutes. Tell Thomas stick around, I wanna see him about something.
Hello, Ma.
Marty, Thomas and Virginia are here. They had another fight with your Aunt Catherine. So they ask me, would it be all right if Catherine come to live with us. So I said, all right with me, but we have to ask you. Marty, she's a lonely old lady. Nobody wants her. Everybody's throwing her outta their house...
Sure, Ma, it's okay with me.
You gotta good heart.
Oh, we got plennya room here.
Sure! Sure! It's gonna be nice! It's gonna be nice! I'll come over tonight to your house, and I talk with Catherine, and you see, everything is gonna work out all right.
So what are you gonna do tonight, Marty?
I don't know, Ma. I'm all knocked out. I may just hang arounna house.
What?
I say, why don't you go to the Stardust Ballroom? It's loaded with tomatoes.
It's loaded with what?
Tomatoes.
Ha! Who told you about the Stardust Ballroom?
Thomas. He told me it was a very nice place.
Oh, Thomas. Ma, it's just a big dance hall, and that's all it is. I been there a hundred times. Loaded with tomatoes. Boy, you're funny, Ma.
Marty, I don't want you hang arounna house tonight. I want you to go take a shave and go out and dance.
Ma, when are you gonna give up? You gotta bachelor on your hands. I ain't never gonna get married.
You gonna get married.
Sooner or later, there comes a point in a man's life when he gotta face some facts, and one fact I gotta face is that whatever it is that women like, I ain't got it. I chased enough girls in my life. I went to enough dances. I got hurt enough. I don't wanna get hurt no more. I just called a girl just now, and I got a real brushoff, boy. I figured I was past the point of being hurt, but that hurt. Some stupid woman who I didn't even wanna call up. She gave me the brush. I don't wanna go to the Stardust Ballroom because all that ever happened to me there was girls made me feel like I was a bug. I got feelings, you know. I had enough pain. No, thank you.
Marty...
Ma, I'm gonna stay home and watch Jackie Gleason.
You gonna die without a son.
So I'll die without a son.
Put on your blue suit...
Blue suit, gray suit, I'm still a fat man. A fat ugly man.
You not ugly.
I'm ugly... I'm ugly! I'm UGLY!
Marty...
Ma! Leave me alone!
Hello, Marty, when you come home?
We just got here about fifteen minutes ago. Ma, I want you to meet Miss Clara Snyder. She's graduate of New York University. She teaches chemistry in Benjamin Franklin High School.
How'd you come home, Ma? Thomas give you a ride?
Oh, it's a sad business. My sister, Catherine, she don't get along with her daughterinlaw, so she's gonna come live with us.
Oh, she's coming, eh, Ma?
Oh, sure. Siddown, siddown. Marty, tell her siddown.
Might as well siddown a minute, Clara.
Did you offer the young lady some fruit?
I offered her, Ma, she don't want nothing.
Ma, I'm gonna take her home now. It's getting late, and the buses only run about one an hour.
Sure.
All right, Ma. I'll be back in about an hour, an hour anna half.
Sure.
Hello, Ma, waddaya say, it's getting a little late.
Sure.
That was a nice girl last night, Marty. She wasn't a very goodlooking girl, but she looks like a nice girl. I said, she wasn't a very goodlooking girl... not very pretty...
I heard you, Ma.
She looks a little old for you. About thirtyfive, forty years old?
She's twentynine, Ma.
She's more than twentynine years old, Marty. That's what she tells you.
What, Ma?
She looks thirtyfive, forty. She didn't look Italian to me.
I said, is she Italian girl?
I don't know. I don't think so.
What are you talking about? She's a nice girl.
She didn't look Italian to me.
I don't like her.
You don't like her. You only met her for two minutes.
Don't bring her to the house no more.
What didn't you like about her?
I don't know! She don't look like Italian to me. Plenny a nice Italian girls around.
Well, let's not get inna fight about it, Ma.
So what are you gonna do tonight, Marty?
I don't know, Ma. I'm all knocked out. I think I'll just hang arounna house and watch...
Tommy, before you go, I wonder if you gimme a little advice.
Sure, what?
You're the accountant inna family, and I figure you might know about these things. My boss wantsa sell his shop to me. His kids are all married, you know, and he and his wife live alone, and they wanna move out to California where his daughter lives, so he wantsa sell his shop. He wants five thousand dollars down, although I think I can knock him downa four...
All right, I'll see you, Thomas, because he wants an answer by Monday.
Sure. Thanks a lot about my mother. We'll work out some arrangement, because naturally I want to pay...
Don't worry about it.
No, listen, that's my mother, I'm gonna pay for her...
Boy, beautiful day, hey, Thomas?
Sure, great if you ain't married.
Tommy, gimme a coupla minutes, because I promised Mr. Gazzara I'd let him know tomorrow. See, what I wanna know, Tom, if a buncha individual retail merchants get together, how does it operate? On individual mark ups? You know what I mean? Say I'm the butcher and Aldo Capelli, he's the dairyman and grocer, so suppose I mark up thirtyfive percent, but he works on forty, so...
Waddaya talking about, do you know what you're talking about?
No, I don't know. That's why I'm asking you.
Wadda you wanna buy a shop for, will you tell me? You gotta good job, you got no wife, you got no responsibilities. Boy, I wish I was you, boy. Waddaya wanna tie yourself down with a shop? What's he want? Five thousand down? You're gonna have to carry a mortgage sixty, seventy bucks a month. A mortgage anna note from the bank. For Pete's sake, you're a single man with no responsibilities. Stay that way, boy. Take my advice.
Well, you see, Thomas I figure the big problem is the supermarkets. But Patsy's shop, that's a specialized trade. The supermarkets don't carry Italian meat.
Who buys Italian meat anymore? You think my wife buys Italian meat? She goes to the A&P, picks up some lamb chops wrapped in cellophane, opens up a canna peas, and that's dinner, boy.
Well, I understand the problem about the supermarkets, but I was talking to this girl last night, and she made the point that a likeable personality is a valuable business asset.
Marty, see that my mother is nice and comfortable, eh?
Sure. This girl said...
What girl, what does she know? Why don't you let her hold the baby once in a while?! Your mother, boy, she wantsa take the kid for a day, that's fine!
...so the whole book winds up, Mike Hammer, he's inna room there with this doll. So he says, "You rat, you are the murderer." So she begins to con him, you know? She tells him how she loves him. And then Bam! He shoots her in the stomach. So she's laying there, gasping for breath, and she says, "How could you do that?" And he says, "It was easy."
Boy, that Mickey Spillane, boy he can write.
What I like about Mickey Spillane is he knows how to handle women. In one book, he picks up a tomato who gets hit with a car, and she throws a pass at him. And then he meets two beautiful twins, and they throw passes at him. And then he meets some beautiful society leader, and she throws a pass at him, and...
Boy, that Mickey Spillane, he sure can write.
I always figure a guy oughta marry a girl who's twenny years younger than he is so that when he's forty, his wife is a real nicelooking doll.
That means he'd have to marry the girl when she was one year old.
I never thoughta that.
What time is it?
About eight o'clock.
She was always a bit thin in the hips...
Well, at the time she told me this, she already had six. Every time I saw the woman, she was either...
And that husband of hers is a skinny bit of a fellow, isn't he?
Well, I bumped into her on the street, and she was as big as a barrel.
Oh, that's nice. So the doctor was wrong, wasn't he?
Oh, no! She died right in the hospital...
Oh, that's a sad story. And her husband is that little fellow, works in Peter Reeves.
That's the one.
Oh, that's a sad story.
Herbie! Wadda you doing here?!
I came up to dance, wadda you think? You here with somebody?
I'm just here with another girl.
Where you going now?
I'm just gonna get my cigarettes. I left them in my coat.
I'll see you around.
I'll see you.
You say something?
Yeah. I was just asking you if you was here stag or with a girl.
I'm stag.
Well, I'll tell you. I got stuck on a blind date with a dog, and I just met an old girl I used to know, and I was wondering how I'm gonna get rid of the girl I'm with. Somebody to take her home, you know what I mean? I'd be glad to pay you five bucks if you take her home for me.
What?
I'll take you over, and I'll introduce you as an old army buddy of mine, and then I'll cut out. Because I got this other girl waiting for me out by the hatcheck, and I'll pay you five bucks.
Are you kidding?
No, I'm not kidding.
You can't just walk off onna girl like that.
Siddown, siddown. You want some chicken? We got some chicken in the ice box.
No, Mrs. Pilletti. We were just going home. Thank you very much anyway.
Well, siddown a minute. I just come inna house. I'll take off my coat. Siddown a minute.
No, thank you, really, Mrs. Pilletti.
It's a very sad business, I tell you. A woman, fiftysix years old, all her life, she had her own home. Now she's just an old lady, sleeping on her daughterinlaw's couch. It's a curse to be a mother, I tell you. Your children grow up and then what is left for you to do? What is a mother's life but her children? It is a very cruel thing when your son has no place for you in his home.
Couldn't she find some sort of hobby to fill out her time?
Hobby! What can she do? She cooks and she cleans. You gotta have a house to clean. You gotta have children to cook for. These are the terrible years for a woman, the terrible years.
You mustn't feel too harshly against her daughterinlaw. She also wants to have a house to clean and a family to cook for.
You don't think my sister Catherine should live in her daughterinlaw's house?
Well, I don't know the people, of course, but as a rule, I don't think a motherinlaw should live with a young couple.
Where do you think a motherinlaw should go?
I don't think a mother should depend so much upon her children for her rewards in life.
Well, maybe that's what they teach you in New York University. In real life, it don't work out that way. You wait till you are a mother.
It's silly of me to argue about it. I don't know the people involved.
It was very nice meeting you, Mrs. Pilletti. I hope I'll see you again.
Sure.
Goodnight, Mrs. Pilletti.
Goodnight.
You come up here often?
I was up here twice before. Once with a friend of mine and once I came up alone. The last time... do you see that girl in the gray dress sitting over there?
Yeah.
Well, the last time I was up here, that's where I sat. I sat there for an hour and a half, without moving a muscle. Now and then, some fellow would sort of walk up to me and then change his mind. I'll never forget just sitting there for an hour and a half with my hands in my lap. Then I began to cry, and I had to get up and go home.
I cry a lot too. I'm a big cryer.
This is something recent with me, this bursting into tears at the least thing.
Oh, I cry all the time, any little thing. My brothers, my brotherin laws, they're always telling me what a goodhearted guy I am. Well, you don't get goodhearted by accident. You get kicked around long enough, you get to be a real professor of pain. I know exactly how you feel. And I also want you to know I'm having a very good time with you now and really enjoying myself. So you see, you're not such a dog as you think you are.
I'm having a very good time, too.
So there you are. So I guess I'm not such a dog as I think I am.
You're a very nice guy, and I don't know why some girl hasn't grabbed you off long ago.
I don't know either. I think I'm a very nice guy. I also think I'm a pretty smart guy in my own way.
I'm twentynine years old. How old are you?
I'm thirtyfour.
...you teach chemistry? That's funny. Where? What school?
Benjamin Franklin High School.
Benjamin Franklin, where's that? Brooklyn? I went to Theodore Roosevelt right up here on Fordham Road. It's right arounna corner from my house. I have a cousin who's a teacher. He teaches Latin. He lives in Chicago. He was studying to be a Jesuit, but he gave it up after his first vows.
You gotta real nice face, you know? It's really a nice face.
Thank you.
...When I got outta the army, Clara, I was lost. I didn't know what I wanted to do. I was twennyfive years old, what was I gonna do, go back to my old job, forty cents an hour. I thought maybe I go to college under the G.I. Biller Rights, you know? But I wouldn't graduate till I was twennyeight, twennynine years old, even if I made it in three years. And my brother Freddie wanted to get married, and I had three unmarried sisters  in an Italian home, that's a terrible thing. And my kid brother Nickie, he's a one got married last week. So I just went to pieces. I used to walk inna streets till three, four o'clock inna mornings. My mother used to be so worried about me. My uncle Mario come over one time. He offered me a job driving his hack onna night shift. He got his own cab, you know. And God forgive me for what I'm gonna say now, but I used to thinka doing away with myself. I used to stand sometimes in the subway, and God forgive me what I'm going to say, I used to feel the tracks sucking me down under the wheels.
Yes, I know.
I'm a Catholic, you know, and even to think about suicide is a terrible sin.
Yes, I know.
So then Mr. Gazzara  he was a frienda my father  he offered me this job in his butcher shop, and everybody pleaded with me to take it. So that's what happened. I didn't wanna be a butcher.
There's nothing wrong with being a butcher.
Well, I wouldn't call it an elegant profession. It's in a lower social scale. People look down on butchers.
I don't.
Well, the point is Mr. Gazzara wantsa sell his shop now, because he and his wife are lonely, and they wanna move out to California in Los Angeles and live near their married daughter. Because she's always writing them to come out there. So it's a nice little shop. I handle his books for him, so I know he has a thirtyfive percent markup which is not unreasonable, and he takes home net maybe a hundred, hundred and fifty bucks a week. The point is, of course, you gotta worry about the supermarkets. There's two inna neighborhood now, and there's an A&P coming in, at least that's the rumor. Of course, mosta his trade is strictly Italian, but the younger Italian girls, they get married, and they don't stick to the old Italian dishes so much. I mean, you gotta take that into account too.
It's my feeling that you really want to buy this shop, Marty.
That's true. I do. But I'm gonna have to take outta loan inna bank eight thousand dollars. That's a big note to carry, because I have to give Mr. Gazzara a mortgage, and what I have to weigh is: will it pay off in the end more than I can make onna salary?
Wadda you think?
I think anything you want to do, you'll do well.
I only got about three bucks on me now, but I just live about eight blocks from here on the other side of Webster Avenue. Why don't we walk back to my house? I'll run in, pick up some dough, and let's step out somewhere.
I really should get home...
It's only a quarter of twelve. The clock's right over there.
I really should get home, I told my father... Well, I suppose a little while longer. I wonder if there's any place around here I could put some makeup on...
...It's really a fine opportunity for me. But I'm not sure I want to be a department head. It's mostly executive and administrative work. Well, anyway, I told you about my father, and he depends on me a great deal, and...
Why don't you just move out to Portchester?
Well, that's what I was saying. My father is getting old. And we're very close. He's a wonderful man, really...
I think you're kidding yourself, Clara. I used to think about moving out, you know? And that's what I used to say. "My mother needs me." But when you really get down to it, that ain't it at all. Actually, you need your father. You know what I mean? You're living at home, and you got your father and mother there, and you can go on like that  being a little girl all your life.
I'm afraid of being lonely.
Oh, you won't be so lonely. You'll make friends right away.
Actually, I don't make friends easily.
What're you talking about? You're a real likeable person. You'll make friends out there in Portchester one, two, three. You'll have people visiting you alla time. I'll come visit you. I'll borrow my brother Freddie's car, or you can call me up when you feel blue, or I'll call you up. And it's gonna be nice. Don't be so afraid.
This is the kitchen.
Yes, I know.
Come on inna dining room.
Siddown, take off your coat. You want something to eat? We gotta whole halfchicken in the icebox.
No, thank you. I don't think I should stay very long.
Sure. Just take off your coat a minute.
So I was telling you, my kid brother Nickie got married last Sunday. That was a very nice affair. And they had this statue of some woman, and they had whiskey spouting outta her mouth. I never saw anything so grand in my life. And watta meal. I'm a butcher, so I know a good hunka steak when I see one. That was choice filet, right off the toppa the chuck. A buck eighty a pound. Of course, if you wanna cheaper cut, get rib steak. That gotta lotta waste on it, but it comes to about a buck and a quarter a pound, if it's trimmed. Listen, Clara, make yourself comfortable. You're all tense.
Oh, I'm fine.
You want me to take you home, I'll take you home.
Maybe that would be a good idea.
No, Marty, please...
I like you. I like you. I been telling you all night, I like you...
Marty...
I just wanna kiss, that's all.
No...
Please...
No...
Please...
Marty...
Waddaya doing tomorrow night?
Nothing.
I'll call you up tomorrow morning. Maybe, we'll go see a movie.
I'd like that very much.
The reason I can't be definite about it now is my Aunt Catherine is probably coming over tomorrow, and I may have to help out.
I'll wait for your call.
We better get started to your house, because the buses only run about one an hour now.
All right.
Waddaya doing New Year's Eve?
Nothing.
What happened, Angie, was that we thought we were just gonna go for a short walk, and then we thought we were gonna come right back, but we got to talking. Listen, Angie, I want you to meet Clara... Clara, this is my best friend, Angie. I told you about him.
How do you do?
You got an elevator in this house?
We just live one flight up.
So I'll call you tomorrow.
Okay.
Okay, so I'll see you tomorrow night then.
Okay.
Hey! What are you doing here?
I came to see you. How you feel?
I gotta pain in my left side, and my leg throbs like a drum.
I been getting a pain in my shoulder.
I gotta pains in my shoulder too. I have a pain in my hip, and my right arm aches so much I can't sleep. It's a curse to be old. How you feel?
I feel fine.
That's nice.
We gotta postcard from my son Nickie and his bride. They're inna big hotel in Florida on their honeymoon. Everything is very nice.
That's nice. I gotta letter from my husband's cousin in Abruzzi. His mother died.
Oh.
Do you remember Emilio DiGiorgio, owned the tavern in Abruzzi?
I don't think I remember him.
Well, he died. You know who else died?
Who?
You know the old man upstairs in this house. Old Irishman, always drunk. He got pleurisy. He was inna hospital two weeks. He died yesterday.
Well, I always like to visit you, Catherine, because you always got such cheerful news.
I wake up this morning, I hear the baby crying. So I wake up. I come in their room. That girl is shaking her hand atta baby. I said, "You brute! Don't you strike that baby! That's my son's baby!"
It's her baby too, you know.
That's my son Thomas's baby.
Well, it ain't your baby.
Did I tell you she threw the bottle a milk at me?
You told me.
She's a witch, that one. I tell you what happen yesterday?
What happen?
She gave me the evil eye.
Ufa!
I keep one eye open when I sleep, because she's gonna come in, stab me in my bed.
Catherine, I want you come live in my house with Marty and me.
Ah?
You son Thomas and Virginia, they come to my house this afternoon...
Who?
Your son Thomas and his wife Virginia...
When was this?
This afternoon, about four, five o'clock.
What they say?
You know what they say. They say things are no good in this house. Catherine, your son is married. Leave him in peace. He wantsa be alone with his wife. They don't want no old lady sitting inna balcony. Now I tell you what I think. I want you come live with me in my house with Marty and me. In my house, you have your own room. You don't have to sleep onna couch inna living room like here. We will cook inna kitchen and talk like when we were girls. You are dear to me, and you are dear to Marty. We are pleased for you to come.
My son Thomas came to see you this afternoon, and he said to you he wants to cast his mother from his house?
Catherine, don't make an opera outta this. The threea you anna baby live in three skinny rooms. You are an old goat, and she has an Italian temper. She is a good girl, but you drive her crazy. Catherine, you are no fool. You know this is no good, an old woman living with a husband and wife. Two women inna same kitchen, anna house burns down.
So I am an old garbage bag, put inna street.
Oh, Catherine, please! Don't make a tragedy. You come to my house where you know you be happier yourself.
It pains that they should do this.
I know it pains.
Catherine, you are very dear to me. We have cried many times together. When my husband died, I would have gone insane if it were not for you. I ask you to come to my house, because I can make you happy. Please come to my house.
These are the worst years. I tell you. It's gonna happen to you. I'm afraida look inna mirror. I'm afraid I'm gonna see an old lady with white hair, like the old ladies inna park, little bundles inna black shawl, waiting for the coffin. I'm fifty six years old. What am I to do with myself? I have strength in my hands. I wanna cook. I wanna clean. I wanna make dinner for my children. Am I an old dog to lie in fronta the fire til my eyes close? These are the terrible years, Theresa! Terrible years!
Catherine, my sister...
Hey, I come home from your house last night, Marty was here with a girl.
Who?
Marty.
Your son Marty?
Well, what Marty you think is gonna be here in this house with a girl?
Were the lights on?
Oh sure. This girl is a college graduate.
They're the worst. College girls are one step from the streets. They smoke like men inna saloon. My son Joseph, his wife, you know, she types onna typewriter. One step from the streets, I tell you. Mrs. Pilletti ponders this philosophy for a moment.
That's the first time Marty ever brought a girl to this house. She seems like a nice girl. I think he has a feeling for this girl. You heard him sing. He been singing like that all morning.
Well, that's all. You will see. Today, tomorrow, inna week, he's gonna say to you, "Hey, Ma, it's no good being a single man. I'm tireda running around." Then he's gonna say, "Hey, Ma, wadda we need this old house? Why don't we sell this old house, move into a nicer parta town? A nice little apartment?"
I don't sell this house, I tell you that. This is my husband's house. I had six children in this house.
You will see. A coupla months, you gonna be an old lady, sleeping onna couch in her daughterinlaw's house.
Catherine, you are a blanket of gloom. Wherever you are, the rain follows. Someday, you gonna smile, and we gonna declare a holiday.
Marty, your mother wants you onna phone.
Come on over about half past seven, we'll think of something. Hello, Ma, what's the matter?
Hello, Lou, Angie come in yet?
He was here last night till about two o'clock. I hear you really got stuck with a dog last night.
Who told you that?
Angie. He says she was a real scrawny looking thing.
She wasn't so bad.
So waddaya feel like doing tonight?
I don't know, Ang'. Wadda you feel like doing?
Well, we oughta do something. It's Saturday night. I don't wanna go bowling like last Saturday. How about calling up that big girl we picked up inna movies about a month ago in the RKO Chester?
Which one was that?
That big girl that was sitting in front of us with the skinny friend.
Oh, yeah.
We took them home alla way out in Brooklyn. Her name was Mary Feeney. What do you say? You think I oughta give her a ring? I'll take the skinny one.
She probably got a date by now, Angie.
Well, let's call her up. What can we lose?
I didn't like her, Angie. I don't feel like calling her up.
Well, what do you feel like doing tonight?
I don't know. What do you feel like doing?
Well, we're back to that, huh? I say to you, "What do you feel like doing tonight?" And you say to me, "I don't know, what do you feel like doing?" And then we wind up sitting around your house with a coupla cansa beer, watching Sid Caesar on television. Well, I tell you what I feel like doing. I feel like calling up this Mary Feeney. She likes you.
What makes you say that?
I could see she likes you.
Yeah, sure.
I'll call her up.
You call her up for yourself, Angie. I don't feel like calling her up.
Boy, you're getting to be a real drag, you know that?
Angie, I'm thirtyfour years old. I been looking for a girl every Saturday night of my life. I'm tired of looking. Everybody's always telling me to get married. Get married. Get married. Don't you think I wanna get married? I wanna get married. They drive me crazy. Now, I don't wanna wreck your Saturday night for you, Angie. You wanna go somewhere, you go ahead. I don't wanna go.
My old lady, every word outta her mouth, when you gonna get married?
My mother, boy, she drives me crazy.
So what do you feel like doing tonight?
I don't know. What do you feel like doing?
Not a bad crowd tonight, you know?
There was one nicelooking one there inna black dress and beads, but she's dancing now.
There's a nicelooking little short one for you right now.
Where?
Down there. That little one there.
Yeah, she looks all right from here.
Well, waddaya say, you wanna ask them? I'll take the one inna green dress.
I think this number is a little fast. Wait a minute.
Where you been, for Pete sakes?! I been looking all over for you.
I looked for you, Angie, before I cut out, but I couldn't find you.
I been looking all over for you!
Waddaya gonna do now?
I'm gonna take Clara home. It's close to one.
You want me to ride down with you?
What for?
It's early.
It must be one o'clock.
It's Saturday night! There's still plentya action around!
Angie, by the time I get Clara home, it's gonna be one, onethirty. By the time I get home, it's gonna be two o'clock. I gotta get up for ten o'clock mass tomorrow.
All right, I'll see you!
Where you going?
We gotta whole pot inna kitchen. We give you a platea your own.
Oh, I couldn't eat nothing. My mother just stuffed me right up to the jaws.
Who you gonna call?
I was gonna call that girl from last night. Take her to a movie tonight.
Are you kidding?
Listen, Angie, I wanna tell you, you were very impolite last night. I introduced you to the girl, you just turned and walked off. Now, why did you do that?
You got me mad, that's why. Hey, Joe, show Marty that picture.
Marty, let's go downna SeventySecond Street area tonight.
I don't feel like going, Angie. I thought I'd take this girl to a movie.
Boy, you really musta made out good last night.
We just talked.
Boy, she musta been some talker. She musta been about fifty years old.
I didn't think she was so badlooking.
She musta kept you inna shadows all night.
I told this dog I was gonna call her today about twothirty.
Brush her. Listen, you wanna come with me tonight, or you wanna go with this dog?
Waddaya getting so sore about?
I looked all over for you last night, you know that?
I told you she wasn't especially attractive, but that she had a good deal of charm, and she's really a real nice girl...
She's all right, Andy. It's just that I get one Saturday night off every three weeks, and I was expecting something better, that's all.
I told you she wasn't attractive...
You told me that she was a little tall, but that she wasn't bad looking at all.
Millie's been after me to fix her up with a date, so I...
All right, I'm having a fair time. It's just that I get one Saturday night off in three weeks, and I wanted to wind up with something tonight.
Hey, Herbie...
What?
You wanna have a drink before we start dancing?
Listen. You people go grab a table. I'll be back inna minute. I'll be right back.
He's not a cop killer.
I'm sure he isn't. Though he's certainly adept at killing.
He was doing his job, protecting the girl. If police were involved, you figure it out. I'm here for him.
So am I.
Pollo Pibil. Chicken and chorizo sausage. Hmmmh. They marinate it in lemon and orange juice. It's a stew really.
I already ate.
Tell me about your friend Creasy.
You just said it. He's my friend. Nothing else to say.
I read the file. You and Creasy have been seen quite a bit together.
Two tourists who never went home.
You helped him get this job.
That's what friends do.
Yes. But if I traced Creasy to you, others will do it as well. Their facilities are as good as my own, if not better.
I can take care of myself.
You and Creasy both. A two man army according to Interpol. Panama. Lebanon with the Druze. Desert Storm. Where you were contracted by the U.S. Army to hunt down elite Iraqi military commanders. You two were a married couple.
The kind that gets divorced, but still stay friends.
What happened to him? What happened to Creasy?
None of your business. Or mine for that matter. I got nothing more to say.
This is my jurisdiction. I want these men as much as Creasy does.
He'll deliver more justice in a weekend, than ten years of your courts and tribunals. So stay out of his way.
I plan to. I'll even help him if I can. He's going to lead me to the 'The Dreamer'. Someone I want very badly. But I'd like to understand him. Give me that.
Pinta Martin Ramos is just a number to you. Tragic, a public outcry, but a number. One more dead.
What was she to Creasy then?
Light. At the end of a long, dark tunnel. Somehow, she showed him it was alright to live again.
And they took that away.
A man can be an artist in anything. Stone, paint, words. Food. Anything if his soul is true to it. Creasy's art is death. And he's about to paint his masterpiece.
[A bodyguard was shot trying to protect a 9 year old. The bodyguard's American. Not only that he's black.]
[Is that good or bad?]
[That's good. Really good. He shot and killed two judicial cops and a kidnapper died in the attack. They're saying he's responsible.]
[He'll die of his wounds; bleed to death before he can do anything.]
[He sounded strong to me. Stronger than we are.]
[Because he's outside. Because he's not tied to the same system we are.]
[We did voice analysis of the last five high profile kidnappings, including the little girl. The same man 'The Dreamer'. Listen to this.]
[I know this. Your point?]
[Creasy is not a policeman. My sense is he could be very valuable to us.]
[Then what do you have to lose?]
[It's a moral issue. On one hand you're cleaning up the bad guys, but in another way we are feeding the problem that produces bad guys.]
[Is it true? Creasy saved the little girl that was kidnapped yesterday.]
[And left three more dead men.]
[When you talked to him, did he look sane?]
[No. Not by the rules of polite society at least.]
[I think he's... magnificent.]
[You only fuck me to get information.]
[You only give information so you can fuck me.]
[A beautiful circle.]
[And as long as we're talking information, there's something else as well.]
[I should start going for your tits first.]
[Who's that?]
[He's the man, 'the Boss?' My guys got into the house on the pretext of giving cholera shots. We had to inject the whole Barrio. We bugged the house and stole the picture of him.]
A man's worth can be judged by what he has or what he owes. Only the amount matters.
And bankruptcy. Where will that put me in the social strata?
I'm only asking for one thing. And it's not an extravagance. It's not even for me; it's for our daughter.
Our daughter.
Our child's safety is at stake.
These people are professionals. They don't waste their time taking children whose fathers are virtually bankrupt.
Samuel, it is not something we should skimp on. A bodyguard's presence in the car or outside the school was at least some form of deterrent. Now he's gone, I feel totally exposed.
My wife, Mr. Creasy.
Lisa Martin Ramos, Mr. Creasy.
He has experience in related work. A great deal of it.
Do you have any family, Mr. Creasy?
I think it's nice he's American.
I think it's fantastic.
You realize that you've brought a killer into the house.
She likes him.
Hmm?
Creasy. Pinta likes him.
Pinta loves school. She'd like Count Dracula is he took her back there.
He has to go, Samuel.
What? Who?
Creasy.
Why? You were so pleased with him.
Pinta likes him too much. She thinks of him as a father.
That's ridiculous.
It's not.
I've just been so busy, Lisa.
He has to go.
It will be a hard break.
She's young. She'll get over it.
I wasn't thinking of Pinta.
You should be sleeping, baby.
I'm trying, mom.
Good news. You're going back to school.
When?
Samuel is going to hire a new bodyguard. It may take a few days, but you're going back.
Could he speak English? Emilio couldn't speak English.
We'll see. And thank your father in the morning. A man always needs to be thanked.
Yes, mom?
This is Mr. Creasy.
I like him, Mom.
You do?
He's like a great big bear. 'Creasy bear'...
I think he's been sick. He's alright now, but I think he's been very, very sick.
Well, think about going to sleep. Good night, baby.
Bye, Mom.
Don't forget your towel.
I'll call you from Detroit, baby.
You're going to miss Mexican Halloween. The Day of the Dead.
[You have the money.]
[Yes.]
[OK, repeat the drop instructions.]
[The money, 10 million U.S. will be divided into two 15 gallon black canvas bags each containing five million which will be checked at the bank by the K&R agent. Then driven to the house in an armored car where it will be transferred to the delivery car.]
[The car will not be powerful and have no trunk.]
[I need a driver to drive Samuel, the father.]
[No. Why?]
[He has a heart condition. Angina. He responds badly to stress.]
[OK. You will arrive at Columbus Circle and Reforma Avenue at 3AM. You will drive around the square two times. Samuel will remove his shirt and hold it out the window to I.D. the car.]
The family paid the ransom and he was returned two days later. His father still hasn't gotten up the nerve to ask him if they fucked him up the ass.
And now every mother with money in Mexico City wants bigger and better bodyguards. My own wife included.
If she pisses you off, you get another one.
Do you know what she told me last night?
Of course I care about Pinta. She'll be as beautiful as her mother one day.
Yeah? And if she was ugly?
All my clients have kidnap and ransom insurance.
I have a policy, AIG. It covers me and my family and when it runs out in sixty days, without a bodyguard, I will not be able to renew it.
I know you need to please Lisa. An ass like that is hard to find. Good bodyguards are even harder.
I know! I just had to let one go because I couldn't afford him!
You need a bodyguard of some description. It's a dangerous world we live in. But you will get what you pay for. He doesn't need to be Superman, does he? Can you go fifteen grand?
For a year?
For a few months. Hire someone cheap. You have to have a bodyguard to keep the insurance. Then fire him for incompetence. The important thing is Lisa's daughter will return to school.
And Lisa will be able to save face. We won't be the only family without a bodyguard.
Her beauty fucks with your mind.
For an American she understands this country very well.
She understands men.
Rosanna Guerrero.
It's Creasy.
Where are you?
Los Arcos. Was a little girl kidnapped recently? About twelve maybe?
Last night. Do you know something?
What was her name?
Camila. Camila Valencias.
The world of our children. How dare they?
It's war. The weakest suffer the most.
You're American.
So are you.
You've done much of this work before?
Never.
Mr. Creasy, I wanted to make sure you have everything you need.
I'm fine.
Is the food alright? Maria tells me that you didn't eat.
The food's fine. Sometimes I don't eat.
It insults Maria. Slip it to the dog if you have to... Do you mind if I talk to you for a moment?
How are you getting along with Pinta?
We'll be okay once she realizes I'm not a new toy.
Yes, she told me. Do you have children, Mr. Creasy?
No.
You should know they're tenacious when they want something. And Pinta wants to be friends.
You're paying me to protect her, not amuse her. Right?
Look. Maybe this isn't going to work. Maybe you should ask your husband to hire someone... more sociable.
No, you're right. You were hired to protect her, that's enough. I'm confident you'll do that.
It makes it all seem so serious.
It is serious, Mrs. Ramos.
Please, it's Lisa... I'll be coming with you tomorrow. I have lunch with friends.
Sorry.
The traffic takes some getting used to.
Jordan!
If something happened, my reaction would be to fight to protect her. I have skills in that respect. Pinta would benefit by the fact that... I'm a soldier.
Why are you here? Why didn't you die?
Because... I was already dead.
They planned it, Samuel and Kalfus.
Planned what?
An autosequestra. Kalfus arranged for Pinta to be taken to a safehouse. I'm sure he thought she'd sit there for three days eating pizza and watching TV. It didn't work out that way. Everything got fucked up when I killed the cops and Tazinari saw an opportunity.
I don't believe you.
I want you to get into your car now and meet me on the south end of the footbridge between Reforma and the freeway junction. In 45 minutes.
You're lying. I don't believe you.
Then don't come.
Creasy... Wait.
Stay here. If you do something stupid, we won't get her back.
Do you like dogs, Mr. Creasy?
If they like me.
Frank doesn't take to most people. Do you speak German?
Ein Klines Bisschen. [A tiny bit.]
Frank only responds to commands in German. He was trained in Frankfurt. My Dad loves the idea of having a dog around, but hates the fact he lives inside.
That's 'Bird.' Emilio forgot to take him with when he left.
Who's Emilio?
My last bodyguard. He drove me to school in the morning and picked me up in the afternoon.
In between you can take Mom shopping and to lunch. Does that sound alright, Mr. Creasy?
Creasy. Just call me Creasy.
Creasy...
Where are you from, Creasy?
The United States.
I know. But which state?
No.
You can drive and talk at the same time, can't you?
No.
Why not?
I'm looking for potential.
Potential? I don't understand.
Places where the road bends, places away from buildings, places where the traffic thins out. But you don't have to understand. I do. So no talking.
Are you going to quit? My last bodyguard quit.
Let me guess, you wouldn't stop talking?
Someone gave him more money than we could.
I'm a bargain.
Being black, is that a positive or negative for a bodyguard in Mexico?
Time will tell.
There were 24 kidnappings in Mexico City in the last six days. Four a day. What do you think about that, Mr. Creasy?
Pretty impressive. Maybe I need to up my fee or get a larger gun.
We're taking a different way home.
That's right.
Did you like school, Creasy?
No.
Not at all?
No.
But why not?
Hmmm?
It wasn't a school like yours and there was no Sister Anna.
So you were unhappy?
Being unhappy is a state of mind. I never thought about it.
Oh...
And don't start crying.
I'm not crying.
Pinta, do you have a pencil?
I go to school, don't I?
You're fast.
Once I get in the water but not starting off. By the time I catch up, it's too late.
What are you doing?
Calling for Emilio's macaw. I thought I heard him.
Do you think he'll come back?
Maybe. Did you hear him?
No.
How do you think he got out?
Well, I let him go.
It's better to be free, right?
Yes. Actually, he was driving me crazy.
They'll be back in a week.
They can stay for two weeks. I don't care.
It hurts.
Where?
Everywhere!
I don't think they're broken. Anywhere else?
My ankle.
The night you arrived, Mom asked you if you had a family and you lied, didn't you?
White lie. I didn't have a family. But I did have two kids. They're adults now.
Do you always sleep with him?
I'm too old for him. Don't tell my friends.
I don't talk to them much. Does he have a name?
Did you sleep alright?
Yes.
How's the ankle? Can you put your weight on it?
It's not too bad. Will it take a long time before it's better? Our big swim meet is in three weeks. Interschools. I was going to swim in the one hundred meter freestyle.
In a week you should be fine.
Doesn't matter. I always finish second.
You need to practice.
Why do you ask?
It was in a book at school. Concubine.
Well, it's a sort of wife.
But the Emperor of China had 1000 of them! How can that be?
In the West, it's one wife for one husband, but different cultures have different rules.
It must be difficult having lots of wives.
You feel sorry for the husband?
[Yeah. Can you imagine my mother multiplied by a thousand?]
So how come you know so much about those countries?
I had to do my homework on them when I worked there. Also I enjoy history.
What did you do in Asia? Is that where you met the man with cigarettes?
No, that was in Columbia.
You don't flinch when a gun goes off; you react. You go. Don't listen for the sound; don't anticipate it. Concentrate on the sound itself.
I don't understand.
Don't worry. You will.
Remember you asked me what state I was from?
Yes.
Where you're from isn't so much about geography; it's about events. Where you're from is what happened to you.
Good things happen, too, Creasy. Like meeting me.
I guess that really does make me a hard case.
Do you have a girlfriend, Creasy?
No.
Did you used to?
Yeah. Two or three.
You're late.
I'm sorry.
You were never late before, I was worried.
Where's my mother?
I dropped her at home.
It's no wonder you're late. Why didn't she just come with you?
I'm not afraid you, Creasy.
I know you're not.
Are you afraid of me?
The gunshot holds no fear. Say it.
The gunshot holds no fear.
You welcome the sound. The sound is what lets you go. The sound is what frees you. You are a prisoner in those blocks until you hear the sound.
I'm tough, Creasy. I'm tough as you.
There's no such thing as tough. You're either trained or untrained.
What's so important in Los Angeles?
Your father has business.
Why today? And why'd she have to go with him?
The blocks.
I'm a prisoner in them. Until the gunshot sets me free.
Could I ask you a question?
Could I stop you?
You don't drink like you used to.
That's not a question.
I know because I go in your room and check the bottles.
Still not a question.
My mom drinks, too... Why do people drink, Creasy?
Now that's a question. I don't know about your Mom. For me, the problem isn't in the glass. The problem's in between my ears.
You think too much?
Yeah. Because at one time, I didn't think enough.
Pinta, we've got to go. Travel sucks at this time.
Frank. Frankie.
That's strange. Frank was a noshow. Not like him to miss a ride.
You should break all my fingers, Creasy, then tape them back together. I won't be able to play the piano, but I could still swim.
Don't be a baby. You're tougher than that.
There's no such thing as tough, Creasy. Just trained and untrained.
Then be trained.
I'm going to keep people safe someday. Just like you.
Be a swimmer.
I could do it. Remember the day you wanted the pencil? I know why. And I saw that car again. I wrote the license number in my notebook. Except I missed the last number.
Continue to play in the wrong key, like you're dyslexic.
Dyslexic?
Like St. Jude. A hopeless case that has a complete block about 'C' Minor. But remember, "Whoever resists authority will bring judgement upon themselves." New Testament, Romans 13.
You got that right.
You'll be back in the water in twenty four hours.
When did Mexican Customs start getting smart?
Creasy??? Where the fuck are you?
I'm here.
What do you mean, I'm here?
I'm in a Customs holding tank in Mexico City International. Bring a bunch of cash... about 5K. I'm going to need it.
You got a secondary search and you had a gun.
Listen it was a calculated risk. I've done it a million times and never got caught.
Everything happens once if you live long enough.
It doesn't make sense to xray your bags coming off the plane.
This is Mexico, they do everything backwards.
So what's wrong?
Nothing wrong.
Don't give me that bullshit.
So how's business?
Japanese are here in a big way. Cheap labor. Factory space. But they feel a lot safer living over the border in El Paso. I ferry 'em back and forth. They think I'm Johnfucking Wayne.
But don't you stay in El Paso?
Fuck, I love Mexico. I live like a king down here.
Yeah, right...
Oh, like you haven't been in worse places.
And a level five shithole is better than a level six. Your logic's inescapable.
You been working?
Not for eight months. I was in Columbia looking around, but, nothing seemed interesting.
How long you staying, Crease?
Got no plans, Rayburn, Nothing on. Just wanted to see you, how you were. Came by on impulse.
You did something on impulse?
Everything happens once if you live long enough.
Your Spanish is good enough. You certainly look the part.
You're crazy. People would hire a hasbeen, Ray? A drunk?
Well, you'd have to keep it under control.
And what if, just say, there was a kidnap attempt?
You do your best. They won't be paying you enough to perform miracles.
It's not exactly a scam, Crease. Even at half speed you're pretty damn good.
A bodyguard has to be close to someone all the time. Willing to talk. I'm not good at that.
So you'll be the silent type. People will appreciate that.
What are you doing here?
I came to visit you.
Bullshit. I've known you fifteen years. You don't visit.
A bodyguard... Who's the guy?
Samuel Ramos. Owns one of the plants in Juarez. The Jap car industry is in the toilet. He's trying to persuade Ford to partner with him. I think he's in trouble. He asked me if I knew anyone he could trust.
Oh, now you think I can be trusted.
Take a job, Creasy. Breathe some air. Then decide if you want to... stick around or not.
There's still ink on my fingers from last week.
You got tossed. Don't trust the cops, especially the Judicials. Oh you know that?
You mean a misfire?
I mean nothing. The hammer came down and nothing happened. Dimple on the primer.
I've heard of it. Never happened to me though. Maybe the firing pin's off.
Maybe...
Creasy?
Sorry I woke you, Ray.
Then one day, he calls and says, 'I'm in love and I'm moving to Mexico.' I said what happened to the plan?
I said the plan was right here.
You got three of the fuckers. All dead.
Pinta...
Two days gone. They're negotiating a ransom.
Stomach's gone. But... okay.
I'll get you up to the border. Friend of mine'll take you in to San Diego. Drop you right at the hospital.
Fuck. Look at you; you won't last a day the shape you're in. Unless you stop bleeding you should have your spleen removed.
Yes or no?
I won't kill again. Hunt people. I gave that up. Anything else? It's yours.
I'll take the .45 and the Webley .32.
I know it's old fashioned, but it's reliable. Like us.
Cut the stock here. The barrel here. Make sure you file it smooth. Rocket launchers?
Different door. Not far from here.
Were you provided with a gun?
Yes.
Show me, please.
What is it?
Nine millimeter. A Sig Sauer 226.
Have you used this type before?
Is it loaded?
It's loaded.
Your resume is impressive. Nine years in the Army. Extensive counter terrorism work. I shouldn't be able to afford you in my current state. What's the catch?
I drink.
How does it affect you?
My coordination. Reaction time. If top professionals try to kidnap your daughter, the service will be on par with the pay.
And what if amateurs try it?
I'll probably kill them. Is that likely?
No. And no one is to know of your drinking problem. That includes my wife.
[Do you know who I am? I am the commandante of the Judicial anti kidnapping division.]
[And one of the founding members of La Hermanidad.]
[Correct!]
[Please, don't...]
[It's all up to you, commandante. Tell me about you and 'The Dreamer'.]
[I don't know him. I saw the opportunity and got lucky.]
[Lucky how?]
[That he used policemen. That you killed them, it made it a police matter. The Ramos family couldn't refuse our involvement.]
[And?]
[And I had my men ready.]
[You stole the drop.]
[Yes. Many times.]
[O.K. So tell me more.]
[There was no ten million dollars.]
[The ransom was ten.]
[Two and a half. That's how much there was.]
[Don't lie to me!]
[Two and a half! The rest was paper! Strips of paper!]
[Maybe your men stole from you.]
[No. Whoever took the rest took it before the exchange.]
[Who gave the bags to Ramos?]
[His lawyer. Jordan Kalfus.]
[That's all I know! Please. I'm sorry for the girl. But it was business! I'm a professional.]
[That's what everybody keeps saying.]
[Hello Daniel. I've got your family and I want to negotiate.]
[Mr. Creasy. What do you want?]
[I want you.]
[How much do you want?]
[It's nonnegotiable.]
[Two million U.S.... Three million U.S.?]
[I told you, nonnegotiable.]
[The most important thing in life is family. And there you are. You have my family. What do you want?]
[I want you.]
[This is not possible. But in that house I have money. If I tell you where ]
[Your brother wants to talk to you.]
[Yeah. Yes.]
[Listen! I will give you a life for a life.]
[What do you mean?]
[Her life for your life.]
[The girl's. Pinta's.]
[You're a liar. Pinta's dead.]
[I'm a businessman. A dead girl is worth nothing. She is alive.]
[Drive.]
[Do you know who I am?]
[You are Jorge Ramirez.]
[Do you know who I am?]
[Who are you?]
[I am the President of La Hermanidad.]
[The Ramos kidnapping. How did it work?]
[I don't know. We were just given instructions to take her.]
[Ordered by who?]
[I don't know! We work in parts. A voice calls in a kidnapping. We deliver the target to the guardians. We don't even know them. They might transfer to other guardians. The negotiators and the bosses don't even see the target. They just make the deal!]
[Who ordered it?]
[The cops call him 'The Dreamer'.]
[Where do I find him?]
[I don't know. No one knows.]
[I don't know, I swear.]
[I believe you.]
[I'm professional. I just do my job.]
[Me, too. Tell me about the guardians.]
[He called me on the cell phone to set a time and location for the switch.]
[Who's he?]
[The one who transferred Pinta to their car.]
Who's he?
I don't know, but I know his face.
[I see him sometimes at the handball court in Chapultepec on a Saturday afternoon.]
[How do I recognize him.]
[He has a tattoo covering twothirds of his back. He is part of the Brotherhood.]
[In the next hour, where do I find your partner?]
[Oneonethree Arco Iris. Third floor.]
[She's late, Mr. Creasy.]
[Yeah, I've got to get used to the routes. I  It won't happen again.]
[No offense, but I'm sorry that your profession needs to exist.]
[So am I, Sister.]
[Do you ever see the hand of God in what you do?]
[Not for a long time, sister.]
[The bible says, "Be not overcome of evil, but overcome evil with good."]
[Romans, chapter 12, verse 21.]
[How does it work?]
[Everything on the cellphone. We wait for calls. We have no number to call.]
[Who pays you?]
[We have an ATM bank card. We draw out 300 dollars every two weeks.]
[What's the PIN number?]
[The what?]
[The number you use at the bank machine.]
[Foursevenfourseven.]
[Who killed her? You?]
[No!]
[Don't lie to me.]
[The boss did or his brother.]
[Who's the boss?]
[We don't know! We never see his face! We have to wait in the other room. He was screaming to the girl that...]
[What money?]
[The ransom money. At the drop. He said Tazinari, one of the policemen had taken it. He was crazy.]
[Who's Tazinari?]
[Head of the antikidnapping division.]
[Reina Rosas.]
[Si.]
[How do you contact 'the Boss'?]
[We page him and he calls back on this cell phone.]
[What is his name?]
[Daniel.]
[Daniel what?]
[Daniel Rosas Sanchez.]
[So you're married to him? And this looks remarkably like his brother.]
[What is his name?]
[Aurillio Rosas Sanchez.]
A lot of people are looking for you.
I guess that makes you the smart one.
We're interested in the same thing. I'm writing a story.
It's Santa Muerte. Death worship. The religion of La Hermanidad. There's a curse on you.
It's a little late.
Maybe I can help your situation and you mine.
So where do we begin?
I need the name and address of the owner of a Toyota Corolla, license number ME31704... We didn't get the last digit so I need the ten possible matches.
So what do I get in return?
Let's see how the relationship develops. I'll call you in the AM. Thanks.
I need something. Do you have banking connections?
I have connections.
Where do I find you?
I'll call you tomorrow.
What do you know about the cop? Tazinari. The one who made the ransom drop with Samuel Ramos?
He's an old fashioned patrone with the worst reputation. He's high on my hit list.
Where does he live?
He lives in a Judicial Compound. He travels by motorcade. He has better protection than George Bush. Even more importantly he is part of La Hermanidad. His reach is far and wide.
Give me the address.
Another favor... get me banking info on Jordan Kalfus. U.S. deposits or withdrawals. Thanks. Oh, get me the same on Samuel Ramos.
How do I contact you? We still don't have the ATM info.
You don't, I'll call you. Oh! I have a tape recording that I am sure will interest you.
I traced the PIN. I have an address for you. But I need to see you.
I show, you give me the information?
Deal.
Where?
[Where are you coming from?]
[South America.]
[Where are you staying in Mexico?]
[I'm on to Juarez.]
[Why?]
[I have a friend there.]
[Senor?]
[It's a permit to carry a gun in Columbia. The gun you're about to find in that suitcase.]
What am I doing here?
Believe it or not, you're safe here. The Judicial police will kill you. If they can. This page?
No.
You have a rather checkered past. Mr. Creasy. Your Interpol file is six pages long.
Am I a suspect?
No. It would be convenient, but no.
Show me mugshots of Mexican policemen. Maybe then we'll get somewhere.
All these photos you just saw were of policemen. Sadly they're protected. La Hermanidad. The brotherhood.
Hombre en fuego. Man On Fire. That's what the papers have named you.
It's what you and Rosanna named me. Right?
Sit, Creasy. Everything that happens from now on does so with my permission. Really. You won't find a better carne asada in all of Mexico.
The last few days may represent the best police work of my life.
What do you want?
The same thing as you. Except, my reach isn't as long as yours. My father was a policemen, did you know that?
I don't know shit about you.
He was one of the original founders of 'Le Hermanidad' in the days when it represented good not evil.
My family lives in Miami. Because of the death threats.
It's not worth it. Be with them instead.
It galls me to watch you. You can do as much in days as I can in years. Men like the 'The Dreamer' are protected. Out of everyone's grasp it seems, but yours.
Are you going to arrest me or talk me to death?
My country needs justice. Proper justice. Gunning men down in the street only feeds the violence. They need to be brought to trial. Dealt with properly. Then people will respect the law. When they see it works.
So you are going to talk me to death.
You walk out and deal justice. You're what I wish I could be. The policemen who kills you, his family will have all they want.
Then I hope the one who gets me has got lots of kids. What do you want?
I want to arrest you for murder! I want to shake your hand and reload your gun! I want to kill my pride and give you my blessing.
My deal is with Rosanna. I knew you guys were up to something. Are you two fucking?
No, but I have to admit I thought about it.
Liar. Just tell me who the bank card belongs to. Name and address.
You have no interest in making things easy, do you?
I'm not... easy.
Creasy... I'd have liked to have known you under different circumstances.
Off the top of my head, I don't know what they could've been.
We were parceled out, all five of us. I went to this reform school and lived at this woman's house. She was in charge.
This is your room, Malcolm. I know you'll keep it clean.
This is Malcolm, our new guest. We'll treat him like a brother.
I was special. The only colored kid in class. I became a sort of mascot. Like a pink poodle.
I didn't know then that I was a nigger.
He's bright.
They talked about me like
Good grades. Fine athlete. President of his class.
I wasn't there. Like I was some kind of pedigreed dog or a horse. Like I was invisible.
Brother Minister he often talked about you. He loves you, loves you like his own son. Says you are the best, his greatest Minister but that someday you would leave him and turn against him.
He told you that?
Yes sir.
Are you sure?
Yes, I am, Brother Minister. All I want is support for my children. He should provide for his children. That's all I want.
Allah will provide.
I'm Minister Malcolm X. Two witnesses saw him brought in. He was not brought out.
You heard the Sergeant. Outside.
Who the hell are they?
Brothers of Brother Johnson.
Eddie, let's see that blotter.
Only a pig could do a thing like that.
Watch your tongue, boy.
Don't you call me boy, you pig. Letting a man bleed like that.
I'm half wop, half nigger and ain't afraid of no one.
What can you do?
Then I put him to bed and pour talcum powder on him like a baby. He gets his jollies off.
So what about him?
So? The man got silver, china, rugs 
Might be all right.
Might be, shit. Man, I know this town. I got my own fences. Who the hell are you? Who put you in charge?
You want to be the head man?
That's right.
Head nigger in charge?
I'm the man.
Okay, baby. Let's flip for it. Flip this.
Your turn, Rudy. You want me to flip for you?
Jesus Christ, no. Okay, okay. You got it, you got it! You're the boss.
Well, all right, then.
Well, all reet, then.
Hey, man, gimme some skin.
Shorty, this is Laura.
That's a fine chick.
Fine as May wine.
Except she live on the hill and got a grandma.
Make it too easy and it ain't no fun.
Don't you know, you can't hump the Bogart.
Eat lead, coppers.
Bang, bang. You're dead.
Naw, you missed me, copper. Try this on for size.
I forgot to tell you I'm wearing a bulletproof vest.
The hell you are.
I'm tired of always playing the cops. I wanna be Bogart sometimes.
You're too small to be Bogart.
I'm not too short to be Cagney.
Yeah and get a slave, too, huh, baby?
I ain't doing bad.
Man, the name musicians ain't got shit. How you gonna have something? I need a stake, a bundle, a grand. My woman can't afford it; my homey ain't got it. How about you baby? What you got?
Jesus, Red, she's just a kid.
Jesus ain't got nothin' to do with this.
That ain't bad.
Tell him about Baldy.
Don't never try to cross someone who ain't afraid to die.
You the man!
What did you do, Homey, palm it?
Yeah.
Palmed it right in the goddam chamber.
Jesus Christ, Homey, you are nuts.
I got to hand it to you, Homey. That's the best preacher hype I ever did hear.
It isn't a hype, Shorty. And I meant what I said: join us.
Come on, baby. I don't pay that shit no mind.
The Honorable Elijah Muhammad says you should pay it all your mind. If you got a mind.
Baby, I love you. Take it easy, greasy. How about a snort?
I've been clean for twelve years, Shorty.
You is something, Homeboy. My trouble is  I ain't had enough stuff yet, I ain't et all the ribs I want and I sure ain't had enough white tail yet.
How's the rest of the gang? You seen anyone?
Well, Sammy's dead. Yeah, fell over in the bed with a chick twenty years younger than him. Had twentyfive grand in his pocket.
Sheeet, you ain't. I had aplenty.
...That isn't a whore?
That's alright. Baby, take your time. Sophia's not going anywhere. I told you to walk, don't run.
Shhhh! I don't like women that talk.
You like 'em scrambled soft or hard, sweetie?
C'mere.
Sweetie, they're almost ready.
You hear me, girl?
You the man.
You better believe it.
You evil this morning.
What's your story, baby?
Yeah, girl; that's your story. When you gonna holler "rape," sister?
Me?
You will, baby  if the time come.
Lemme feed you, sweetie, while they hot.
Baby, I was gonna give it to you.
Well, bitch you move too slow.
You had the number.
Baby, I got to let this old man win. Keep the faith, and tell Billie I'll see her later.
How many you turning out?
500.
Make it 1000. We got a lot of fishing to do.
Brother Malcolm, I want you to meet Brother Earl. He just joined the Nation.
Thank you, Brother; Sister, how are you?
Please make way, please 
Another one?
How long has this been going on?
All day since you and Betty left. Brother Minister, I have to level with you. They gave me a mission. But I couldn't do it. I love y'all.
What mission?
To wire your car so it would explode when you turned the ignition. The Ministers say you are spreading untruths about the Messenger. The Ministers say you are a great hypocrite, Judas, Benedict Arnold. The Ministers say your tongue should be cut out and delivered to the Messenger's doorstep.
What does Sidney say?
I'm with you, Brother Minister.
No. You'll be marked for death.
Let me die then.
I won't let myself come between you and your father. Go home.
You're my father.
And don't come back.
It's the same questions, Mrs. Little. Since the death of your husband 
Murder.
 there is a serious question as to whether 
These are my children. Mine. And they ain't no question. None.
I think sometimes, Mrs. Little, candor is the only kindness.
All of your children are delinquent, Mrs. Little, and one, at least, Malcolm is a thief.
Get out.
Your control over your children, therefore 
Did you hear me?!
You'll regret this, Mrs. Little.
If you don't move out through that door, you're going to be past all regretting.
'Lo. I've got to freshen up.
Now you come back.
I better not come in.
I ain't stupid.
I mean it's late, baby.
I know where you're going.
I'm going to bed. I gotta work tomorrow, need my rest.
Baby, I'll call you tomorrow.
What for? I ain't white and I don't put out.
Malcolm, you can be anything you want. You got class and you're smart.
All them books you read and you still don't know nuthin.
I do know I love you.
Let's go.
Why? Is it because of your white gal? Folks say you're running around town with her.
Save it, baby. Save it for Mr. Right, 'cause your grandma's smarter than ya think.
The average first offender gets two years for burglary. We were all first offenders. That's what Sophia and Peg drew 
Two years in the Women's Reformatory at Framingham.
But our crime wasn't burglary. It was balling white girls. They gave us the book.
Burglary, count one  8 to 10 years; count two, 8 to 10 years; count three, 8 to 10 years...
Fourteen counts of 8 to 10 years.
The sentences to run concurrently.
Shorty thought he hit us with 114 years till I explained what concurrently meant. It meant a minimum sentence of 10 years hard labor at the Charlestown State Prison. The date was February 1946. I wasn't quite 21. I had not yet begun to shave.
I thought you said we were going to the movies last night.
I say a lot of things.
And like a fool I believe it.
Do your job, Get me a bourbon on the rocks and a pack of Lucky's.
You know that gal?
Mind your own goddamn business... She comes in a lot?
'Bout every other night, Red.
With him?
She know?
If she got eyes, she do.
Is she hooking?
Not yet. But the way things going, that boy gonna turn her out any day.
Can I ask you something?
Sure, man.
Are you Elijah's pimp?
What?
"His greatest greatness."
Say what you're saying.
If you don't know, man, then I feel sorriest for you.
If you want to tell me.
Women are deceitful. They are untrustworthy flesh. I've seen too many men ruined or tied down or messed up by women.
If I surprise you, let me explain. Menial work teaches us humility.
Let me do it then.
No, each of us must relearn that work is the only worthwhile thing. Allah has given you a great gift. Use it wisely, never forgetting that we are nothing, while He is all.
Allah Akbar.
Did you see the papers today?
Yes, sir, I did.
That was a very bad statement. The country loved this man, and you have made it hard in general for Muslims.
Mr. X is a demagogue. He has no place to go, so he exaggerates. He's a disservice to every good lawabiding Negro in the country. Can I ask you a question?
Please, go ahead.
Mr. Malcolm X, why do you teach black supremacy? Why do you teach hate?
For the white man to ask the black man if he hates him is just like the rapist asking the raped, or the wolf asking the sheep, "Do you hate me!" The white man is in no moral position to accuse anyone of hate.
Stop me if I'm wrong. I "polarize the community." I "erroneously appraise the racial picture."
You put it very well.
You left one phrase out. Another educated Kneegrew said to me and I quote: "Brother Malcolm oversimplifies the dynamic interstices of the Negro subculture." Would you agree?
Entirely.
Well, I have this to say. Do you know what a Negro with a B.A., an M.A. and a Ph.D. is called  by the white man? I'll tell you. He's called a nigger.
Let him finish.
Thank you. Now the Negro in the field caught hell all day long. He was beaten by the master; he lived in a shack, wore castoff clothes and hated his master. If the house caught fire, he'd pray for a wind. If the master got sick, he'd pray that he'd die. And if you said to him, "Let's go, let's separate", he'd yell, "Yeah, man, any place is better than this." You've got a lot of Field Negroes in America today. I'm one.
Do you know what a friend you have in Jesus, son?
Preacher, take your tin Jesus and the Virgin Mary, both, and shove 'em.
Why don't you just ask your question?
You've been talking about the disciples. What color were they?
I don't think we know for certain.
They were Hebrew, weren't they?
That's right.
As Jesus was. Jesus was also a Hebrew.
Just what is your question?
What color were the original Hebrews?
I told you we don't know for certain.
Then we don't know that God was white.
Now just a moment, just a moment 
But we do know that the people of that region of Asia Minor, from the TigrisEuphrates valley to the Mediterranean, are darkskinned people. I've studied drawings and photographs and seen newsreels. I have never seen a native of that area who was not black.
Just what are you saying?
I'm not saying anything, preacher. I'm proving to you that God is black.
I want to also, but until we are instructed by the Messenger to do so, we will just wait and pray.
I'm tired of praying.
That's enough, Brother Earl.
I don't care about myself, my wife and four children were sleeping in their beds, they have nothing to do with this.
Let's get out of this cold.
Brother Earl.
Malcolm, where are you? We've been calling all over the city.
I'm gonna try and get some work done tonight.
Let some of us come down there.
No, that won't be necessary. I'll be all right.
I wish you'd listen to us. What about the meeting tomorrow? We need to frisk people.
I don't want folks to be searched, it makes people uncomfortable. If I can't be safe among my own kind, where can I be? Allah will protect me.
Reverend Chickenwing called last night and said he wouldn't be able to attend.
So now we have no opening speaker? Why wasn't I informed last night?
I called Sister Betty, she didn't tell you?
Since when do you start telling Sister Betty my business? Since when? She has nothing to do with this. You tell me, not her, not anybody else.
I assumed...
What did I tell you about assuming?
Brother Minister, what is wrong?
The way I feel, I ought not to go out there today. In fact, I'm going to ease some of this tension by telling the black man not to fight himself  that's all a part of the white man's big maneuver, to keep us fighting amongst ourselves, against each other. I'm not fighting anyone, that's not what we're here for.
Let's cancel.
Is my family here yet?
Down front as always.
What?
She ate.
Sure I'll speak to your class. But I'm a hard man on women. You want to know why?
If you want to tell me.
Women talk too much. To tell a woman not to talk is like telling Jesse James not to carry a gun or a hen not to cackle. And Samson, the strongest man that ever lived, was destroyed by the woman who slept in his arms.
Shall I tell my sisters that we oppose marriage?
What points?
That you haven't time for either marriage or eating 
Considering today's standards of animal raising and curing meats, I don't fully understand the restriction on pork.
Let me explain. No. I'll do better than that. I'll show it to you. Scientifically. But it's demonstration purely in the interest of science, you understand?
I see your point.
So it is not a matter of the breeding conditions or preparation of the meat. The meat itself is foul.
Could we sit down someplace?
I'm sorry. I've had you on your feet for hours.
You've been on your feet for days. And didn't even finish your salad.
That's something I haven't done in fifteen years.
What?
Sat down with a pretty girl and had an ice cream soda.
How do you like it?
Delicious.
Let's talk about you for a change.
There's nothing to talk about.
Oh, yes, there is. I know a lot about you. Brother Bembry briefed me.
Oh? Purely scientific interest I'm sure.
You're from Detroit, near where I come from. You majored in education at Tuskegee. You're studying nursing and having trouble with your family.
I can handle it.
They want you to quit the Muslims or they won't pay your tuition, isn't that it?
You have enough worries of your own.
No, good Sisters are rare. We need every one. Tell me something: how tall are you?
Why do you ask?
Just an idle question.
If it's just idle, I won't answer it.
But Brother Bembry says I'm tall enough for a tall man.
How old are you, Betty?
There's a few things you don't know about women, Brother Malcolm. They're possessive and vain.
Are you?
And dogged when I set my mind to something.
What have you set your mind to?
Being a good Muslim, a good nurse and a good wife.
I'm in Detroit.
I know.
At a gas station. Will you marry me?
Yes.
Did you hear what I said?
Yes I did. Did you hear my answer?
I think so. Can you catch a plane?
Yes. Did you eat?
I love you.
It won't be easy.
Just hold me.
It will be rough.
Hush your mouth.
I'll be away a lot.
You're with me even when you're away.
I never told you, but when I first saw you on the podium, cleaning your glasses, I felt sorry for you. Nobody as young as you should be that serious. But I don't think that anymore.
What do you think?
The simplest thing in the world: I want to have a lot of babies with you. Dear Heart, I love you.
Why are you looking at me like that?
Because you're in trouble.
How do you know?
I don't want to bring my troubles home. You know that.
I'm not made of glass.
I just want to sit here and be still.
We've never had a fight. Not a real one. But we're going to have one right now if you don't talk about it.
Talk about what?
The talk is everywhere!
There's always talk, always been talk, and always will be talk. Don't they say how I'm trying to take over the Nation, how I'm getting rich off the Nation?
We'll get to that, too, but this isn't just talk any more.
"Los Angeles, UPI: Elijah Muhammad, 67yearold leader of the Black Muslim Movement, today faced paternity suits from two former secretaries who charged he fathered their four children..."
There are always slanders, always lies. You're reading the devil's lies. Can't you see they're trying to bring us down, bring down the Messenger.
"Both women, in their 20's, charged they had had intimacies with Elijah Muhammad since 1957..."
I was going to talk to Bembry about it tonight.
To Bembry? Is Bembry your friend?
Woman, have you lost your mind? What's the matter with you?
No, what's the matter with you? Wake up! Are you so dedicated that you have blinded yourself? Are you so committed you cannot face the truth? Bembry is the editor of the newspaper you established. Ask him why your name hasn't been in "Muhammad Speaks" in over a year? Ask him why you rate front page in every paper in the country, but not a single sentence in your own.
I'm not interested in personal publicity. Our people know what I'm doing.
Do you know what Bembry is doing? You're so blind, everyone can see this but you!!!
Bembry saved my Life. The Honorable Elijah Muhammad saved my life.
A long time ago. You've repaid them many times over. Ask them why they have new cars and houses full of new furniture.
Is that what this is about? Material wealth?
What do we have, Malcolm. A broken down jalopy and the clothes on our backs. We don't even own our own home. What about our children? What about me? You don't even own life insurance.
The Nation will provide for you and the children if anything happens to me.
Will they? Are you sure? Are you sure or are you blind?
Dear heart, you have to help me. I'm raising our kids practically by myself, while you're running all over the world. You don't know how many times the girls ask me when is daddy coming home?
What do you want me to do? Our people need me.
We need you too!
What do you want me to do?
Open your eyes, you can face death 24 hours a day; but the possibility of betrayal never enters your mind. If you won't do that for yourself do it for us.
Get some sleep.
You have to sleep for three.
I'm sorry. I haven't been the best husband or father.
Shhh!
Families shouldn't be separated. I'll never make another long trip without you and the kids. We'll all be together.
Dear heart, I love you.
We had the best organization that black people ever had and niggers ruined it.
Stop calling us. Leave us alone. Leave us alone. I'll kill you. I'll kill you.
Betty it's me. It's me.
Malcolm, they keep calling, threatening us. I'm going crazy, when is this going to stop?
Don't answer the phone. It's all right. It's all right. Nothing is gonna happen to anybody.
Dear heart, where are you?
At the Hilton. The girls asleep?
I just put them to bed. Can we come to the meeting tomorrow?
I don't think that's such a good idea.
You are now Benjamin 2X.
All praises are due to Allah. Thank you, Brother Minister.
Come, sit with us.
Is the program ready?
No, Brother Minister.
Why not? You've had ample time, you and the sister.
Folks are sitting out there today, not next week, expecting to hear our program.
Next week, Brother Minister.
Has the Reverend called? Is he going to show?
Make it plain.
And now, without further remarks, I present to you one who is willing to put himself on the line for you 
What can I do for you?
Mr. X, I was out there tonight. I saw what you did. I want to be a Muslim. I ain't never seen a Negro stand up to the police like that.
Do you?
Not exactly, but I want to be one, like you.
I admire your enthusiasm but you should never join any organization without first checking it out thoroughly.
We need more young warriors like yourself, stick around and we shall see if your heart is true.
Mr. X, I won't make you out a liar.
I'll have it tomorrow.
Brother Benjamin, do not rush, it has to be exact.
Who the hell are you?
Put it in a cup of water. It's nutmeg.
Man, what do you want?
You need something. It's not a reefer, but it'll help some.
Man, get outa my face. I ain't nobody's punk.
If you ain't trying to punk me, what's your hype?
I can show you how to get out of prison. And it's no hype.
Talk, daddy, I'm listening. Hey that ain't bad. You got some more?
That's the last stuff you'll ever get from me.
What did you give it to me for then?
'Cause you needed it. 'Cause you couldn't hear me without it.
You ain't lying.
When you go busting your fists against a stone wall, you're not using your brains. Cause that's what the white man wants you to do. Look at you.
Putting all that poison in your hair.
Man, you been locked up too long, everybody conks. All the cats.
Why? Why does everybody conk?
Cause I don't want to walk around with my head all nappy, looking like 
Like what? Looking like me? Like a nigger?! Why don't you want to look like what you are? What makes you ashamed of being black?
I ain't said I'm ashamed.
Leggo. I got to wash it out.
Let it burn. Maybe you'll hear me then.
Sure, burn yourself, pain yourself, put all that poison into your hair, into your body  trying to be white.
Man, I don't want to hear all that.
I thought you was smart. But you just another one of them cats strutting down the avenue in your clown suit with all that mess on you. Like a monkey. And the white man sees you and he laughs. He laughs because he knows you ain't white.
The question is, who are you? You are in the darkness, but it's not your fault. Elijah Muhammad can bring you into the light.
Elijah who?
Elijah Muhammad can get you out of prison. Out of the prison of your mind. Maybe all you want is another fix. I thought you were smart.
What you sniffing around for? I told you I gave you your last fix.
I ain't never seen a cat like you. Ain't you scared talking like that in front of an ofay?
What's he gonna do to me he ain't already done?
You the only cat don't come on with that "Whatcha know, daddy" jive; and you don't cuss none.
I respect myself. A man cuss because he hasn't got the words to say what's on his mind.
Tell you this: you ain't no fool.
Don't con me. Don't try...
Okay, okay.
Don't con me.
What do you do with your time?
I read. I study. Because the first thing a black man has to do is respect himself. Respect his body and his mind. Quit taking the white man's poison into your body: his cigarettes, his dope, his liquor, his white woman, his pork.
That's what Mama used to say.
Your mama had sense because the pig is a filthy beast: part rat, part cat, and the rest is dog.
Come on, daddy, pull my coat. What happens if you give all that up? You get sick or somethin'? I pulled a hustle once and got out of the draft.
I'm telling you God's words, not no hustle. I'm talking the words of Elijah, the black man's God. I'm telling you, boy, that God is black.
What? Everybody knows God is White.
But everything the white man taught you, you learned. He told you you were a black heathen and you believed him. He told you how he took you out of darkness and brought you to the light. And you believed him. He taught you to worship a blond, blueeyed God with white skin  and you believed him. He told you black was a curse, you believed him. Did you ever look up the word black in the dictionary?
What for?
Did you ever study anything wasn't part of some con?
What the hell for, man?
Go on, fool; the marble shooters are waiting for you.
Okay, okay. Show me, man.
I can't make out that shit.
Soiled with dirt, foul; sullen, hostile, forbidding  as a black day. Foully or outrageously wicked, as black cruelty. Indicating disgrace, dishonor or culpability.
That's bullshit. That's a white man's book. Ain't all these white man's books?
They sure ain't no black man's books in here.
Then what you telling me to study in them for?
You got to learn everything the white man says and use it against him. The truth is laying there if you smart and read behind their words. It's buried there. You got to dig it out.
Man, how'm I gonna know the ones worth looking at?
Man, I'm studying in the man's book. I don't dig half the words.
Look 'em up and and out what they mean.
Where am I gonna start?
Start at the beginning. Page one, the first one. Here 
Aardvark, noun. An earth pig; an ant eating African mammal. Man, that sounds like the dozens.
Read it and keep on reading.
Ole Pete ain't much in the head, but he can lay in there with the wood.
Lemme tell you about history: black history. You listening?
You pitch, baby; I'll ketch.
The first men on earth were black. They ruled and there was not one white face anywhere. But they teach us that we lived in caves and swung from trees. Black men were never like that.
Sure, white man throw us a bone and that's supposed to make us forget 400 years.
A black man playing big league ball is something.
I told you to go behind the words and dig out the truth. They let us sing and dance and smile  and now they let one black man in the majors. That don't cancel out the greatest crime in history. When that blue eyed devil locked us in chains  100,000,000 of us  broke up our families, tortured us, cut us off from our language, our religion, our history.
Little.
No. That's the name of the slave master who owned your family. You don't even know who you are. You're nothing. Less than nothing. A zero. Who are you?
I'm not Malcolm Little and I'm not Satan.
Who are you?
Allah has sent us a prophet, a black man named Elijah Muhammad. For if God is black, Malcolm 
Then the devil is white.
I knew you'd hear me. The white man is the devil. All white men are devils.
I sure met some.
No. Elijah Muhammad does not say "that white man is a devil." He teaches us that the white man is the devil. All white men.
The body is a holy repository.
I will not touch the white man's poison: his drugs, his liquor, his carrion, his women.
A Muslim must be strikingly upright. Outstanding. So those in the darkness can see the power of the light.
I will do it.
But the key to Islam is submission. That is why twice daily we turn to Mecca, to the Holy of Holies, to pray. We bend our knees in submission.
I can't.
For evil to bend its knee, admit its guilt, implore His forgiveness, is the hardest thing on earth 
I want to, Bembry, but I can't.
 the hardest and the greatest.
I can't.
For evil to bend its knee, admit its guilt, implore His forgiveness, is the hardest thing on earth 
I want to, Bembry, but I can't.
 the hardest and the greatest.
I don't know what to say to Allah.
Have you ever bent your knees, Malcolm?
Yeah. When I was picking a lock to rob somebody's house.
Tell Him that.
I don't know how.
You can grovel and crawl for sin, but not to save your soul. Pick the lock, Malcolm; pick it.
I want to. God knows I want to.
Brother Bembry, can we fix it so our loudspeaker is heard on the street?
I'm sure we can. This is a new sister, Sister Betty.
Now about our coming up in the world a little. You're not naive. You're a man of the world. The Movement's grown; we've grown with it. You know folks. They want their leaders to be prosperous. One hand washes the other.
"I'm telling you God's words, not to hustle."
You want a new car? You want a new house? Is that it? It's the money, right?
Man live by his rep.
That's a fact. What you do, boy?
Yeah, got to do something about you.
You putting a hurtin' on my vision.
The dirty yellow rat bastard.
Don't push it. You way ahead. You back on top. That boy loves you, man.
What you say?
He gave it to you, Archie. He did.
Sit down. We ain't fixing to eat you. You look brand new in town. Pretty handy with a bottle.
He had it coming.
What they call you?
Red, and I ain't no punk.
You better not be. Cause if a cat toe you down in this town, you better stand up or make tracks.
I'm working trains. Selling.
Bet you like that shit.
Keeps me out of the army.
When they want your ass, won't nothing keep you out.
Not this boy... I ain't fighting their war. I got my own. Right chere. Heard tell you're a good man to know.
Heard where?
Where I come from. Boston.
Sombitch and I ain't never been to Beantown.
Man's rep travels.
How 'bout that?
You ain't bullshitting me, is you, boy?
My papa taught me one thing: don't never bullshit a West Indian bullshit artist.
Is your papa West Indian?
No, my mama. She's from Grenada.
I like you, country.
Where can I get a hold of you?
YOU can't. I'll get a hold of you.
Lemme write it down for you.
Don't never write nothing down. File it up here, like I do. 'Cause if they can't find no paper they ain't got no proof. Ya dig?
Yes, sir.
Did you just now con me?
Yes, sir.
Why?
'Cause I want in. And it don't take a lot to know you there, daddy.
I like your heart and I like your style. You might just do, Little. Lessen you got to git back to that train job.
I done told the man what he could do with his train.
When?
Just now.
You looking good, Little. Real clean. Clean as the Board of Health. But you missing something.
What?
Frisk me, baby. Give me a real pat down.
How's it feel?
Solid, daddy.
Okay, baby. Now you outfitted. You ready to tackle the street?
Let 'em come. I'm ready.
I told you less paper, less trouble.
I'm working on it.
I keep all my numbers in my head. I've never written any down.
It hit?
Nnnnnnn!
Ain't nuthin' in the world to give you that real deep cool. Like girl. You there?
I'm there, daddy. Wheww. I'm cool enough to kill.
Bet you are.
Sometimes you got a big ugly mouth.
Yeah, and I'm putting my money where my ugly mouth is. I'm putting you back in the numbers right now. Baby, what's today?
1, 2, 8; 2, 8, 1. I git 'em all?
I'll take your goddam bet.
Daddy, where's my money?
What you talking?
You owe me six big ones.
1, 2, 8 hit, didn't it?
You din't have no 1, 2, 8.
Was you that high? Old man, I threw the slats at you. I said to combinate me.
You never had it.
The bitch was there.
Shit, what else she gonna say?
Then skip it, man. But you slipping, baby. You done slipped.
Oh, sit down, man. What you tasting? I'm buying.
I ain't drinking hot piss with you. Come on, Sam.
You're a damn liar.
You _took_ me, you bastard, and now I'm taking you.
It's me or you, ain't it, Pops?
You know it.
I'll give you back the 600.
I don't want your money.
I'm wearing, Archie.
There's two guns on you.
And every cat's watching, ain't they? It's a toedown.
That's what it is. Walk on out.
Let Billie finish.
Now.
Take it easy, baby.
That really you, Red?
You saved my life, Archie. Running me out of Harlem. When I think how close we came to gunning each other down, I have to thank Allah.
I wasn't gonna shoot you, baby. It was just my rep, that's all. And don't shit me now, but did you have that number? Tell me.
I don't know. It doesn't matter. The thing is we got to get you back on your feet.
Yeah. I got a couple a new angles ain't been figured yet. All I need's a stake and a chance 
Can you use a few bucks? I ain't got much, but 
No, man, I'm doing okay. Thanks.
Take it easy. Lay down and don't think about it.
Yeah.
You could of been something, Archie, but the devil got to you.
And here I thought you flew in some out of town muscle. How's it going, men?
So, you must be the Red Dragon.
Well, that's news to me. The name's Tom.
Mmmmhmm. Where's the, uh, 'Dragon's lair?' Where do you live?
Edinburgh.
And where might that be?
Scotland.
Well, word on the street is you're Welsh.
I am.
A rose by any other name would 
Dip?
Yeah. This shit's fucking brilliant. I just fucking love the fact that you have kids driving around in pickup trucks with a mouthful of this shit, speeding their brains out. I gotta bring a case of it home to my mates. It's illegal back home, you know.
I'll get it.
Who's up for a night on the town.
No. I'll take a strega.
What, motherfucker? You drinking 'the witch' after dinner?
Yeah. That fernet tastes like tar. My grandfather tried to give me that.
Some fuckin guineas he sent me. It's midnight and the motherfucker's ordering an apertif.
It's a digestif.
We don't know any drill. Nobody told us anything.
Maxie told you to keep your mouth shut while you're working, right?
What the fuck you think, I wanna 'hang' with you motherfuckers? Yeah you're working. And put down the champagne.
She poured it for 
Far as she knows you're John Gotti. Now put the shit down and act like you got some ass.
What the fuck was you told? Don't talk, right?
Unless spoken to, ain't that right, Horrace. Didn't you say that?
No...
Four mimosas. You'll love them. So here's the plan. I didn't say shit to Maxie, cause the man has acute angina, and I don't want to get him all worked up.
He has a cute what...?
Who's gonna outfit us?
Outfit? What's he talking about?
The Red Dragon.
Shut it, man. Shut it. Tom is a square. He don't but dabble in shit. Maxie had me hook up a loanback with him, through an Austrian passbook account.
So, we're talking money laundering...
Will you tell Peter Jennings to shut up and fucking listen. The shit's as routine as you get. I coulda turned it over offshore in a week, but Maxie likes to do it all his way. Safe. I coulda dropped the bag alone. It's only two hundred G's. But he sent you all. So I can either send you home and tell Maxie, or we can flush the toilet one more time and hope it all goes down.
Yeah.
What?
When all this is over and we're not working for Maxie, I'd love to run into you on the street. Why aren't you coming?
That's none of your fucking business.
Can I borrow a piece of 
Go ahead. Open the fuckin things. You should each find fifteen hundred 
dollars in cnotes, a numeric pager, a doubleA battery, and a first class roundtrip ticket to JFK.
We're going to New York?
Yes. You're going to New York.
And the money. Where do we bring the money?
That money is your per diem.
And where do we bring it?
Yeah.
You will not carry any other pagers with you. You will not carry anything, for that matter, that I have not just given you.
Keys.
What?
What about my keys?
You can carry your keys. You will not mention my name or imply that you are in my employ. You will not speak to anyone while you are working. When you are not working, you are considered to be 'on call' and available twentyfour hours a day. This means you will not get drunk or do anything that will prevent you from operating in a professional manner. There is already a number in your pager's memory. It is a car service. When they ask you what account, you will respond: 'Cardiff Giant.' They will pick you up and take you anywhere you need to go. In other words, there is no reason why you should not reach any destination that you will be called upon to reach within fifteen minutes. Do you see a pattern forming?
Yes.
I get it.
Tell me.
Don't worry. I get it.
So tell me how it is.
You want... Why are you picking on me?
Because you lost my fucking carpet cleaning van and I don't like you.
So, wait, what are we dropping off?
Goodbye.
I never intended to test you two to that extent, but you both came through. I should've been informed there was a flag on the play, but I'll take that up with Ruiz. I made a few calls back East. Those punks weren't tied in with anyone. As for the Welshman, he wasn't in on it. He was just plain dumb. As for you, Ricky, your draw will go towards a new carpet cleaning van.
But, Max 
We're square.
Yes, sir.
And, as for you, Bobby, you just moved up a notch. Your days of fighting for crumbs is through. Take a week off, come back, and we'll talk about the next thing.
Sure. You boys want anything?
Yeah, bring us four fernet.
Four fernet.
Nigger, please. Don't even order that artichoke shit. West side guineas. Forget the drinks, Leo. We gotta roll. What do I owe you?
We're square.
Thanks, man. You need anything, you call.
Thanks.
You rode?
Ricky.
Soho Grand, right?
Is it nice?
The Soho Grand?
Yeah.
You're from LA, right?
Yeah.
You'll love it.
So whenever we want...
Yeah. Grab one of the cards behind you. Call that number. It's my cell.
So you're our own private guy?
I handle most of Cardiff Giant's stuff.
You know my pager number?
No. What is it?
I don't know. I thought you might. Any idea what the job is?
The 'job?' Alls I know is I'm taking you to the Soho Grand.
A lot of Persians?
Not usually. Mostly Trustafarians.
I call 'em wiggers.
Different.
Yeah.
Jimmy? Ruiz. Pick up Maxie's guineas at LUNA and bring them to Spa. Jimmy's bringing the car around. Me and Ho rode sleds. We'll meet you at Spa in the VIP room.
Good morning.
You think this shit's funny, Ho?
Nah, man...
You think it's funny, motherfucker?
Last thing I want is you with a gun.
Word.
And where is...?
Ruiz? Oh, he ain't here.
No?
Nah, see, Maxie just asked him to set that shit up as a favor. He, you know, he tied in with the club. Set us up so, you know, you feel at home.
Well, I didn't care for the club much. And, I must say, I didn't care for him either.
Well, he ain't gonna be around no more.
Pity. What's say we have a drink?
No shit?
Does anyone want another?
You want another drink?
Sure. Anyplace in particular?
I hear the China Club is a laugh.
What do you want?
A little Charlie, perhaps.
Coke?
I've heard you've got the best coke in the States. The shit back home is pants.
That shouldn't be a problem.
Sorry, mates. Now there isn't even enough to go around...
Don't worry, man. It's all for you.
No, really, mate?
Here...
Here they are, then.
How's it going?
Brilliantly. Care for a pint?
No, thanks, man. We got to head out.
Come, now. You just got here.
That's alright, man. It's a little early for me to drink.
Sorry about that. Where's your mate?
Couldn't make it. Here's the money.
I can't yet vouch for the amount, unless you want me to sit here and count.
No, man, that's fine. Just put that you took delivery.
I... I just hired these guys to watch my back...
Motherfucker, we're handing you money. What the hell we gonna pull?
Where's Spa.
Jimmy knows. 13th Street. We'll meet you there.
How do you know it's not drugs?
Maxie knows I don't go near drugs. I did a minute in Quentin for possession with intent. And it ain't now cause he woulda told me.
You strapped?
'Strapped?'
It means you got a gun?
I know what 'strapped' means, motherfucker. What the fuck you think this shit is? '21 Jump Street?' Cool out, they're coming back. Just throw up your screw face and don't speak unless spoken to.
Don't drag my ass into this 
He spoke to me. You want me to dis him?
I'm not saying shit to neither of you.
Why? What I say bad?
What the fuck, 'Red Dragon?'
What? Why am I bad?
See you later.
You really in trouble?
Stop.
I'll tell him someone else told me.
Just don't ask me no more shit.
The Welsh dude, sees all these niggers in perms and diamonds and shit, he gets nervous. But you motherfuckers, he just laughs. All beat up in your babaloo suit like Fruitpie the Magician.
So we just go eat with him and that's gonna solve everything?
Dude, you just gotta settle your shit down. You gotta go and say all that 'Red Dragon' shit. Make him think he's on Barretta.
Like you were doing any better shucking and jiving like you were waiting for wings outside the Quick and Split.
Ow, shit...
Watch it...
I'm half Irish.
I don't fuck with those crazy, off theboat fuckin Irish. You heard of the Westies?.
Yes?
Yeah, uh, what's the movie?
It's in your copy of Hemispheres. I believe it's Mickey Blue Eyes.
Ugh...
I'll get you the list of videos, if you don't mind, I'll offer the other passengers a beverage.
Yeah, sure. How much are they?
How much is what?
The videos.
You're up front. Everything's free up here.
Yes?
Drinks are free, right?
Yes. Would you care for another one?
Yes.
Yes.
Where do you live?
Excuse me.
Where do you live?
I operate out of the Chicago O'Hare hub. Can I help you with anything else?
Yeah. Me and my boy here are gonna be in New York overnight. I want you to pass the word around to the honeys back in business class that you all got plans for tonight. I'm talkin' a California style, Tupac, gangster pool party back at the hotel. And make that drink a double.
What's up, man.
S'up.
You look big, man. Diesel. You been lifting?
A little.
You look good, man.
Cool. See you later.
Cool.
Watch out, man. Sorry. I'm on the list, man. Hey, bro.
The line's over there.
Yeah, but, we're good. You know what I mean?
How is it you're good? You on a list?
Yeah. Ricky Slade.
You see a Ricky Slade?
Cardiff Giant?
What?
Cardiff Giant. Just check.
Maybe you wanna try the China Club.
Again with the fucking China Club! What do I look like a fucking Persian to you?
Hey. I'm half Lebanese.
Did you see that shit? Motherfucker. You let in fucking Screech, dude? I'm waiting and you let in Screech?
He's on the list.
Show me. Show me where it says Screech on the fucking list.
We rep lines? You know? Fashion?
And you grew up in Manhattan?
Kinda. Yeah.
What do you mean 'kinda?'
I don't wear a white wig, I don't carry a gavel.
That's a good idea, maybe I will!
Where's the surprise?
You want your surprise?
Yeah. I want it.
Well, come on then. It's back here.
You want to come splash around.
I'm just warning you, I can't swim.
I want to leave right now.
I didn't do anything 
Hey, boys.
Tom. How's it going?
Fine, fine. And you were...?
Bobby and Ricky.
Right, right. The 'thugs.'
C'mon...
Fuck...
Did Max mention anything about any jobs?
What about boxing?
What about it?
What are you saying?
You said if you didn't have a winning record after eleven fights, you'd talk to Max.
So?
So, it was a draw.
Yeah, I'm 55 and 1.
So, it's not a winning record.
It's not losing record.
That's not what you said. You said if you didn't have a winning record 
Don't be shitty.
How am I being shitty?
Don't be shitty.
I wouldn't keep bugging you, but you said he said he would have a job for us.
I'm not gonna bring it up to him.
Of course I don't want you to bring it up to him... But if it comes up...
I'll page you.
Yeah. Page me. You know the number?
Yeah. I know the number.
Cause if you don't know the number, I can page you with the number so you'll have the number.
I know the number.
I'll page you with the number. I'll see you later. What time you done?
I got no idea.
Ask if he said anything to her.
I will.
I'll page you with the number.
Bye.
So I'm like, 'Maybe I'm not on the list cause I'm not a fuckin Persian.'
I thought you hate that club.
I do. It's a fuckin Persian Palace.
Then why do you try to get in?
Fuck them.
Shhh...
Come on, man. Not with the owners here.
Hey, baby... Nothing. What are you doing...? Yeah, I'll probably cut out early...
We need guns.
We don't need guns.
I think we might.
He didn't say we need guns.
He implied it.
You don't imply about something like that. You lay it out on the table. Besides, I'm not taking the job.
This is the opportunity of a lifetime. What are you? Nuts? You've been waiting for this kind of opportunity.
No. You've been waiting for this kind of opportunity.
Damn right, I have. You think I like living on fucking Yucca? We do a good job on this, we're in.
What happened to boxing? I thought we made a vow.
Shit. Who we kidding? I know I suck, and I held you up for ten rounds 
Bullshit...
Please. I got three inches on you. You wouldn't have landed a punch if I didn't let you.
You wanna go right now?
I'll beat your ass 
Sorry coach.
Sorry coach.
We look good this year.
We'll kill Fairfax this year.
I still can't believe you missed the fucking team bus.
Fuck him.
Your first start at DB, it's against Fairfax, and you miss the fucking bus.
What are we delivering?
We're not delivering shit. Ruiz is delivering something, and whatever it is is his business.
Who is this fucking Ruiz?
Maxie says he runs a tight ship. I wouldn't fuck with him.
Some Mexican? How much could he weigh? A buck fifty, tops? I'd kick his fucking ass.
I gotta pick up the baby.
Why do you always get stuck taking care of the kid.
I like it.
It's not even yours.
I like it.
Nice work.
Shhh... Yeah, yeah... No. No. I'll be there. You gotta get me to the Magic Castle at four.
How'd you unlock my phone?
I tried your ATM PIN. I gotta kill an hour. Let's grab a beer.
Seat belt.
No, man. It wrinkles my shit. Let's grab a fuckin beer 
C'mon, man, not in front of the baby. Put on your seat belt before I get another ticket.
Jesus Christ, fine. Alright?
See? Now everyone's got one on. What do you got there?
Why can't we just grab a goddamn beer.
I promised Chloe we'd come here.
Oh, give me a break. Look at her. She don't even know where the hell she is. She'd have more fun at Bordner's.
I'm not taking her to a bar.
Why not? I grew up in bars. It's fun for a kid.
What? Did she say something?
She wants you to paint the ashtray.
I'm not painting the fu , I'm not painting the ashtray. And frogs aren't purple.
Max won't let me drive Jess to dance anymore.
Who's driving her?
I don't know.
This paint sucks. The white shows through.
Right here's fine.
Is that the woman from..?
She really liked the kitchen.
It's ours.
To keep?
Holy shit. Can you believe this?
Pretty nice.
See, man. Maxie fuckin takes care of you when you're in. Beats cleaning carpets.
What's the movie?
I'll get the girl.
Nah, don't bother 
You hear that? You can drink as much as you want up here.
We're not supposed to get drunk. We're on call.
Unless we're supposed to whack out the fuckin' pilot, I don't think we're gonna have to work in the next five hours.
I don't want to show up hammered. We're supposed to be representing Max.
Oh, I'll represent alright.
Shit. No new pages. I don't even know where the fuck we're supposed to go.
Maybe we should call for a cab.
No. Look. There.
'Cardiff Giant.' That's us.
You sure?
Yeah. He said that's our account with the car service.
Who you calling?
Shhh... Hello, room service?
C'mon, man...
Yeah, bring up two burgers and a couple of Heinekens. I'm in room... How'd you know? Oh. Yeah. How long? Cool.
How much is it?
How much? Okay. Make it fifteen minutes and you can add on a ten dollar tip. Bye.
How much was it?
Fortysix.
Jesus, man. Plus ten?
Yeah, I guess.
Great. On my fucking room.
Relax. You got onefifty. You heard the guy.
Ricky, who knows how long we're gonna have to be here. We gotta make it last.
Fine. I'll put it on my room. Okay?
Don't worry about it. Just be smart.
But let me tell you, man, I don't like your attitude already.
Oh really. Why's that?
We just got moved up in the world. You gotta let go of that blue collar mentality that was drummed into your head. You gotta start owning it man, or they'll smell you a mile away like a cheap suit.
Who's gonna smell me a mile away?
Don't play dumb. You know what I'm talking about.
What are you doing?
What are you doing?
I know you're not calling Jimmy.
As a matter of fact I was. You got a problem with that?
We're here representing Max. You're acting like a Puerto Rican on the fifteenth of the month.
You think Maxie doesn't want us to roll hard? Why do you think he gave us all this bread? Or the number on the pager? We gotta represent him by showing some class. The man's got an operation. How does it reflect on him if we nickel and dime it?
It's on West Broadway. We can walk.
Well, I don't want to walk.
Shit. It's thirtyfive cents. You got a dime?
Fuck...
What exactly did they say?
They said a hundred thirtyfifth and Twelfth.
They didn't say an address?
I told you what they said.
Nothing else.
Nothing.
How'd they know who you were?
They asked who it was.
So they said more than the address.
No. They asked who I was, then told me what corner.
This is bullshit, man.
What the fuck do you...
What the fuck do you have to complain about?
Don't even start.
No. Tell me. What's so fucking horrible about this gig? You've been crawling up my ass for six months to get your name on Maxie's list, and here we are.
Look, man, I never met Ruiz, okay? I don't know what the fuck I'm picking up, what the fuck I'm dropping off, who the fuck I'm meeting. All I know is Maxie's still pissed at me cause I sold his fucking van.
You sold it? I thought they stole it.
Sold it, stole it, whatever...
Motherfucker...
Oh, give me a break. Don't tell me you feel bad for the guy.
You gotta be kidding me. I vouched for you.
Relax. I'll do right by him. You know that.
You just don't fucking get it, do you?
You know he fucks all his girls, don't you?
What the fuck is that supposed 
I mean, that's what I heard 
You got something to say 
You know this guy?
His names Horrace. Horrace, this is Ricky Slade.
This shit's sketchy. Why do they drop us in the middle of nowhere to have the guy we're supposed to meet come meet us just to tell us we have to meet the same guy somewhere else?
I don't know.
Well, I thought you understood and I was just missing it.
Missing what? He didn't say shit.
Yeah, but you know Horrace. What did you get off him?
What did I 'get?'
Yeah. What vibe?
I detected no vibe other than that Ruiz thinks you're a fucking idiot.
Yo, fuck him, man. Calling us guineas...
What do you give a shit what he calls us? He's not our friend. Let's just get this shit over with and go home. What's this place we're going to, Jimmy?
So is this the drop?
Like I said, I don't know.
He woulda told us right?
You would think.
Yeah.
So we're working?
You happy?
About what?
Why you gotta make everything difficult?
You too?
Yeah, me too. You're a fucking bull in a china shop.
Fuck this.
Where do you think you're going?
Back in.
You fucking nuts?
Work's over. I'm gonna party.
You can't go in there. They know you're with Ruiz.
You got that right.
Fuck you. Go then. I'm taking the car.
Fine.
Look who's back? Want some champagne?
Do not put this on Ruiz's tab. Start a new one.
Damn right. Bring us two bottles of Dom Champs and here, take fifty in case I call you bitch later when I'm drunk. Siddown, motherfucker. 'Sex and paychecks.'
What the fuck's going on?
Dude, get back out there. You gotta help me get them in the hot tub. Hang on girls! Just get out there. I'll be right out. You know how I do.
Yeah, I know how you do. I know how you do. I've heard your kibbles and bits all fucking night. You've been shaking your ass like an unemployed clown. How the room's a boiling pot of sugar water. How you're gonna dip a string into it and make rockcandy. Who wants to play 'Just the tip?' Dancing around like a smacked ass. Oh, and that coat check girl you've been dragging around as 'insurance' doesn't even speak English.
What the hell did you do?
I swear to God, I didn't do anything.
What the fuck was that about?
She was jonesing for me.
Hi. It's Ruiz. Yeah. So the driver knows where to go? When? We'll be down in five. No, I'll tell him. He's right there. Bye.
What's up?
He wants to see us now.
Where?
He said it's being arranged. He said Jimmy will know.
We're getting whacked.
We're not getting whacked.
Why else you think he won't tell us where the sit down is?
It's not a 'sit down.' He said he's telling us the plan.
What are you doing.
I got a bad feeling, man. I don't want to go in naked.
You gonna shank him in the shower?
Is it so unrealistic to think Ruiz, who doesn't even want us here, is throwing us to the wolves? As an apology? And I don't even know what we're dropping off or picking up 
We're getting ahead of ourselves. We haven't gotten any sleep. Let's just keep our mouthes shut and not make any mistakes. Now hurry up and get your shit on so we're not late and make things worse.
Put that shit out...
C'mon, man...
I swear to God, I'll fucking puke.
Hey, Jimmy, where they taking us?
Yeah. Where they gonna whack us?
Nothing, man.
You want us strapped, don't you?
Let's do it.
I'm your soldier.
Let's check out the penguins.
The what?
The penguin house.
Wait a minute. You want to look at fucking penguins now?
Yeah. Let's look at the penguins.
Did you hear what he just said?
Whatever. We're here. We may as well go to the penguin house.
I'm tired and I'm scared, and I'm not looking at fucking penguins.
We need guns.
We don't need guns.
I'm pretty sure we do.
I listened extremely carefully. Nothing was even vaguely implied. He even laughed in your face when you asked him
All the more reason.
You wouldn't even know where to get one.
Wanna bet?
You couldn't even get a hand job from bridge and tunnel posse, how you gonna get a gun?
That's cause you decided to get all tired all of a sudden.
It was six in the fucking morning.
Float me a hundred bucks.
Why?
You wanna see how fast I get a gun?
You're out of money?
No.
What do you have left?
Eighty.
Eighty bucks?!?
Eighty five.
What happened to the fifteen hundred?
You coulda picked up a tab every once in a while.
I did! I paid for half the fuckin drinks!
You did?
Yes I did. You asshole! What about the room?
What about it?
They only cover one fifty in incidentals. You've been ordering fucking... Motherfucker...
Calm down.
I fucking vouched for you. I vouched for you and you fucked me.
This shit's peanuts compared to what we're gonna make with Maxie.
Ricky. I'm trying to save this money. Understand? I'm trying to make it so my girlfriend doesn't have to grind her ass into other men's erections so her daughter can go to private school.
I'm sorry...
This is horseshit. It coulda been so easy.
It's gonna be fine.
No more, man.
Let's get some sleep. That's what we need, man. Sleep.
How we gonna sleep? We only got a few hours til dinner.
So what do we do?
Let's just go now and wait.
Three and a half hours?
I don't want to take any more chances.
Let's just go get guns, I'd feel better.
Don't fuck around. You're gonna get us all killed.
Think about it: You knocked out that Jewish kid's tooth, cost him eight grand, maybe more. Maybe lost his whole line of clientele? He knows you're fucking up Jess' dancing, and I got a feeling he knows I stole his carpet cleaning van by the way he looks at me. He can't kill us in LA cause that leads to too many questions. So he flies us out here first class for a 'drop' that's turned into whatever? He can make us disappear out here real nice...
Where do you get this shit?
Scenario B. I think I'm getting under Ruiz's skin. I'm no dummy. He doesn't like how it went down with the Red Drag  Welshman, whatever. Now I got Fruitpie the Magician telling me I can't call my man Max? And that Welshman's sketchy. Whatever, I don't know where it's coming, which way it's coming from, I'm telling you one thing right now, I'm not gonna be late for the dance.
You're not getting a gun.
Look. They're together. You telling me this ain't a setup?
Easy...
Holy shit. Get me back to Manhattan.
Take us right to Kennedy. Now.
Dude, we were practically made...
I'll drop you off in a minute. I want to see if the baby's up. You wanna come in?
No. I'll wait here.
I'll be a minute.
We're with Ruiz.
Ruiz isn't here.
We're supposed to meet him here. Is Ruiz on the list?
Ruiz is always on the list. He just ain't here, though.
Can you check?
He's not here.
Sorry, man, but...
Thanks a lot. Don't worry about it.
Any time, bro.
Thanks.
Yeah... Mmmm, that sounds good... Uhu...
Excuse me, we need to make a call.
I'm on the phone.
It's important.
So's this. Hey baby... Oh, nothing. What were you saying?
Listen, man, we really gotta...
I be off in a minute. Say again...?
Hi. I, uh, think that's us.
Hi. I'm Jimmy.
Bobby.
What's that?
You're going to the Soho Grand hotel, right?
I'm not sure. All I know is the account is Cardiff Giant.
Yeah. You're staying at the Soho Grand. You got anything checked?
Nah.
Traveling light. I like that.
Where is the Soho Grand?
Soho.
So, Jimmy, you know where this address is?
Yeah. I'll find it. It's in Harlem.
Harlem? What is it, a restaurant?
You don't know where you're going?
No. Just the cross streets.
Well, this is the corner.
I can wait around if you want.
No. That's cool, man.
Spa?
Yeah.
Depends what night.
'Trustafarians?'
You know, white kids with trust funds acting like they're poor. Keeping it real. Know what I mean?
This Ruiz guy, what's his deal?
Don't know much. I hear he runs a tight ship.
Yeah?
Understand me?
Yeah.
Aren't we waiting for Ricky?
Ricky's taken care of.
Taken care of?
Yeah, he's getting there on his own.
That's him. Now you all know the drill, right?
What drill?
'Dis?' 'Dis?' You're not in a position to 'dis', or 'give props', or whatever your Real World sense of fucking decorum tells you to do. You're nothing. You're wallpaper. You're not here to make fucking friends. Asking a motherfucker where he lives. And who the fuck told you 'Red Dragon'?.
We get it. We're sorry.
Now that Limey motherfucker's jumpy and wants to change shit around on me. Maxie's gonna shit a Nokia when he hears about... Aw, shit, I better call him before he hears.
Jesus Christ, where the fuck you been all night? You look like you got shit out in the gorilla house.
Good morning.
Don't 'easy Ruiz' me. Y'all turned a Easter egg hunt into a buttfucka thon. Bring me four eggs Benedict and a mimosa. You all want mimosas?
Nah, man...
A bad heart.
I didn't tell him shit. He worries too much. I love that old Jew, but he's gonna kill himself worrying. We started this shit, and we're gonna finish it.
What's the plan?
Tom, the Welsh dude 
Now listen. The gig couldn't be simpler. You carry the money to the Welshman, he checks it, hands you his marker, you're done. The washed money goes directly to Maxie. Long as you hand off the bag, you're tight.
Where's the drop?
You three are gonna meet him for dinner. Find out if and where. Now any of you motherfuckers got anything else to say?
You like the ponies?
Sure. Yeah.
You bet the ponies?
Me? No. Not really.
Smart. Hard as hell to handicap. You know what I like? Hai Alai. Fast game. You know why I like it?
Why?
It's fixed. That's the only way to win. A sure thing. See that horse. The blaze.
This one?
Yeah. The blaze. I bought her in '66. Hired a trainer, stall, whatever it was. That horse made me over a hundred grand. In 'sixties' dollars. You know what that is today?
Pshhh...
A million. Easy.
She was fast, huh?
Never won a race. But it got me in with the trainer. We'd have a thing, I don't remember, some fucking thing. The jockey would raise his whip, it meant the fix was in, we'd all go running. People get greedy. First they bet small, they keep their mouth shut. Within a month's time, everyone and their brother was in on it. The odds would drop, I mean you could watch the goddamn board. It looked like a fuckin stopwatch, the odds would drop so fast.
That's why they call it the smart money.
I like you, kid. Why do you gotta make it so hard for me to take care of you?
Mr. Reuben, I swear to God, they were out of line.
Last time, maybe, with the Puerto Ricans, but these were nice Jewish boys.
They were out of line 
They're fucking yeshiva buchas. You didn't have to tear up the goddamn place. You knocked out a guys teeth.
That prick tried to get Jessica to blow him in the bathroom 
Bobby, I love Jessica like she's my own daughter. I would kill anyone so much as lays a finger on her or her beautiful daughter, but that fucking pisher you socked in the mouth has the most expensive dentist in Beverly Hills and wants I should buy him an implant. Your silverback horseshit's gonna cost me eight grand.
I'll work it off.
Not driving Jess, you won't.
What?
You're not driving Jess no more. Two strikes, Bobby, and this last one was big. The bachelor's father goes to my schul.
So, that's it. I'm out?
I didn't say that.
Then what are you saying?
Bobby. You're a bull terrier and I got you herding sheep.
I don't understand.
It's my fault. I send you out to watch scum drool all over the love of your life, then I wonder why you seered. It's my fault. The tooth is on me. But no more. I'm 'reassigning' you.
I don't want to drive another girl, Max. The only reason I'm 
Who the fuck do you think you're talking to? This ain't a fucking democracy. You want out?
No.
Don't I put food on you're table? I sponsor your training, I take care of your girl and her little baby. I even pay that deadbeat friend of yours to push a goddamn broom.
I know.
Now you wanna shut up and listen and hear what I got to say?
Yeah. Sorry.
I got a way we make everybody happy.
Yeah.
We try something out. There's someone I'm in business with named Ruiz. I want you to accompany him on a drop. Just as scenery. Ruiz has his boys. I just want a big guinea with a busted up face to give him a deep bench. As a deterrent.
Ruiz knows about this?
Ruiz wants to go alone, but it's not up to Ruiz. It's up to me, and I like a sure thing. Just go and we're square on the tooth.
What about Ricky? He'd jump at the opportunity.
Ricky? Ricky 'I lost the truck' Ricky?
You told him you liked him.
That was before he lost my carpet cleaning van.
He'll work it off.
I don't know the kid, and what little I do scares me.
He's good people, Mr. Reuben. I swear.
You vouch for him?
Yeah. Sure.
How 'bout this. If you're in, he's in.
I gotta tell you, Mr. Reuben, I'm not comfortable getting in any deeper. It's one thing to look after Jess...
You're ready to move up. Christ, the way you busted up the place, you're doing worse already. May as well get paid instead of punished.
It's not that I don't appreciate the offer...
Do me a favor. Think about it. Is that too much too ask?
No. Okay. I'll think about it.
Yes, for expenses and such. Now, you'll be contacted on your pager as to where you should go. You each have been given an extra battery, so there is absolutely no excuse as to why a page would not be immediately returned. Am I making myself abundantly clear?
Yeah.
Yes.
What is it?
You want 
Not you. I want Ricky to answer.
I already told you, I parked it for five minutes and I locked it with the club 
You want us to be wherever you want us to be, ASAP, no questions asked.
Yes. Goodbye.
There won't be a next thing.
Take a few days 
I don't need a few days. I'm gonna settle down with Jess. She's through dancing. We're opening a restaurant.
I hate to ruin your fairy tale, but I've been paying Jess' rent for six months. She's got to keep dancing 
It's already been a hell of a night. Where you been?
I had a fight up at Sportsman's.
Well, you look it. You win?
Draw.
What's your record at?
551.
Yeah, well you let me know when you wanna start makin the real money.
Yeah, sure.
I'm serious. Humping sheetrock and driving on weekends got to get to you after a while. Might be nice to buy your lady something. All it takes is one fight.
What's up? Jess ready?
You driving her?
Yeah.
She'll be out in a minute.
C'mon girl. Eat up.
Get away from her.
Excuse 
What's up. You all ready to meet Ruiz?
Yeah. Where is he?
He making the drop?
Nah, man. He's just making contact. That's our man. The Welsh guy.
What's his name?
Ruiz don't like using names on cell phones. He refers to him as the Red Dragon.
So, when's the drop.
To be honest, man, I don't know shit either. All I know is it ain't drugs and it ain't now.
How bad is it?
It's bad. Before you even showed up, he said you were Maxie's 'token goons', and not to be trusted. He wanted to TCB alone. I was gonna ride shotgun to keep the English dude above board. Now he's spooked. This shit's snowballing.
When's it going down?
Was gonna be tomorrow morning. Now, who knows?
Shit.
Why isn't Ruiz coming?
This Welsh dude is tripping on Ruiz cause he's a Shot Caller.
What's that?
A Shot Caller. A boss, a Capo. He's running shit.
Yeah.
So what do we do?
We go and hang out with the dude, make him happy, drink some tea, whatever it takes, until he feels comfortable enough to bring it up on his own. We make the drop, go home to California.
Where is this happening?
We meet at the Globe on Park Avenue at six fortyfive. I'll see you then.
Now, here's what worries me. He said he wants to meet up at a bar in Red Hook. You know where that is?
No.
Brooklyn.
Yeah?
He must have that shit troughed.
What do you mean 'troughed?'
Troughed off. Protected. Like, you know, like he got a moat around it.
Ruiz tied in out there?
Nah, man. No one is. They got some Puerto Ricans and a new crop of fuckin Irish immigrants.
Heard of them.
They ran shit back in the Eighties. Used to cut motherfuckers heads off and sit them on the bar. That's back when the Irish was making a play against the Italians. I don't know if they still around, but I don't fuck with those motherfuckers just in case.
It sounds to me like everybody's just a little jumpy. And since all it is is a drop, the Welshman's got nothing at stake. I say we go to his 'troughed off' bar. It'll calm his nerves, we drop the bag, and we all get back to our lives.
And not a word to Maxie. He'll shit if he knew we crossed a bridge.
Where we going?
Quick drop. In and out.
Where's Ricky?
Ricky's taken care of.
How so?
He was uptown when I paged him. I gave him the address. He's meeting us there.
That it?
That's it.
This is it.
Where's Ricky.
I guess inside. Or he never made it. Either way, I don't give a shit. Let's get this over with.
Whu 
There's no touching.
But what about them?
I don't give a shit. I work for her. No touching.
I said no touching.
Look, man, I'm the bachelor, alright? I gave her a hundred bucks in tips alone 
Get your hands off of her.
Dude, listen, man. I'm cool. How much for the treatment?
Your dance is over.
Come on, dude. The other chick's giving my best man a blow job in the toilet. I know the drill, I'll wear a rubber 
I  I  I... Don't...
I don't get it.
Honey?
Where were you?
So, what kind of gig is this?
Easy night. Bachelor party. Can we give Wendy a ride?
No. What kind of bachelor party?
The easy kind. They're young and rich and well mannered.
Oh my god. What happened?
A draw. What makes you think they're well mannered?
Bobby, this is a plumb gig. It's a bunch of young agents and it's at a restaurant. It's gonna be easy and we'll make a lot of money.
I don't like you working with Wendy. Why are you working with Wendy?
They requested her. It was her gig. Max put me on as a favor.
Some favor. I hope they know you're not like Wendy.
Oh, please.
If they asked for her, they're probably expecting blowjobs all around.
Will you cut it out! Get ready, we're already late.
Who's watching the baby?
She's downstairs with Ruth. Get ready.
I'm ready.
Bullshit. These are classy customers. You can't show up all fucked up with a Fila running suit on.
They're not too classy to have tits rubbed in their face.
You talk to Max today?
I'm not gonna mention Ricky to him.
Don't expect you to mention it to him. I'm just saying, if 
The only way he'll go with Ricky is if you're in too.
Well, that's not gonna happen.
Fine. You want to help Ricky, talk to Maxie yourself.
I feel weird asking him.
You shouldn't. He likes you.
I just wish he never brought it up. Ricky won't shut up about it.
Forget Ricky. You should be glad Max got you driving for me.
No coke tonight. Right?
Leave me alone. I haven't touched anything in months.
Go finish getting ready. I'll take care of dinner.
Yeah? You sure?
Go.
No way that cocksucker's driving you.
Maybe if you didn't go Rambo every time I did a lapdance, you'd still be doing it yourself. Meantime, I gotta feed my little girl.
Maxie's fucking with me. He put you with the spook to get under my skin.
Ho's a good guy 
Ho's a fucking pimp! He encourages Wendy to turn tricks. And she's his fucking wife!
Shhh. He'll hear you.
Good! It'll save me the trouble of repeating myself. He's not fucking driving you!
Listen to me, Bobby. This is my job. It puts a roof over me and my daughter and you for as long as you want to stay.
I want you to quit.
Look at the bills. I can't. I'm not gonna put my daughter through what I went through.
I'll support you.
With what?
Max offered to stake me.
Yeah, well Max offers a lot of things. And I got news for you. He's not the sweet old man you think he is.
She needs a family. A dad. I'll give her what you never had.
Don't get my hopes up. If I quit, what then? I can't go through this again.
I never promised you anything.
How could you let her see this?
Goodbye, Bobby.
Just so you know, I bought you out with Maxie. I suggest you leave while you can.
Don't you get it? I don't want to leave. This is who I am.
Tell you the truth, I don't give a shit for me. But that little girl is so special, and you're gonna fuck her up.
Take her.
What'd you say?
I want you to take her with you.
Ricky's not wearing one.
Ricky, can you put on a seat belt?
A elephant seal. Where's mommy?
She's, uh, sleeping.
It's daytime.
Mommy works hard so you can have all your pretty clothes. Don't you like your pretty clothes?
No.
Show uncle Ricky what you made.
What's wrong, baby?
He's not doing it.
It's a poison arrow tree frog.
Will you paint the damn thing. Why do you gotta be such a baby.
You're not my daddy.
You gonna bust my horns, or you want spaghetti
I want spaghettis.
Hello.
Chloe?
Uncle Bobby?
Hi, baby. What are you doing awake? Where's mommy?
I don't know.
Mommy's not home?
No.
What time is it there?
Can you take me to Color Me Mine?
Yeah. Are you sure mommy's not home? It's very late.
I gotta go, baby. I love you. Tell mommy I called. You be a big girl and be careful when you're alone.
I love you. Come home.
What the fuck was that about?
You wanna get us busted? If Max found out you were turning tricks 
I got news for you, Bobby, he don't give a shit.
Bullshit.
You think he don't know? I give him his cut of seventeen hundred, I think he knows I can't make that lap dancing.
No more.
Nobody's fuckin talking to you.
And how could you fucking leave Horrace hanging?
I got news for you, Horrace got his ass out of there before you did.
Bullshit.
What? You don't think Horrace would leave your white ass in there to hang?
Will you leave me alone, already...? No, Sean, it's over... I don't care... As a matter of fact, I am... Yeah. In his hotel room...
Holy shit.
I'm having fun, Sean. Can you handle that...? Yeah. He doesn't judge me.
Is he cute?
He's okay.
Should I fuck him?
I don't know. Do whatever you want.
He's great, right. Is he great?
He's alright.
I know.
But maybe that's okay. Maybe that's just what you need.
Oh no. What is it this time.
We used to take baths together.
Come on. Let's go.
So, wait, you're from where?
Manhattan.
You girls aren't from Brooklyn or anything?
No.
I don't get it. What do you do?
We're in Fashion.
So you're models?
I don't know about you guys, but I'm starting to feel a really sexual vibe here.
What happened? I thought we were playing Truth or Dare.
Look at, ladies. I could sit here and take turns throwing skittles at your ass all night. But I feel what you guys are putting out there. I'm only a mirror reflecting what I'm getting from you. And I'm saying yes to it. I'm shaking hands with it. I see the road that you're pointing down and I'm saying I'll ride shotgun. And when your foot slams on the accelerator, I won't get scared. I'll stand up and let the wind blow through my long blonde hair. With my summer dress clinging to my bosom yelling 'Faster, Billy! Faster! Drive faster! Faster yet  !'
Okay. We got a lot happening here. Here comes the good part... Okay...
Somebody's getting comfortable.
...And here is the key to the mini bar. Room and tax has been picked up by Cardiff Giant, as well as one fifty in incidentals.
What's 'incidentals?'
Phone, room service, minibar. Any additional expense. If you need anything you can push the button marked 'Concierge', and they'll be able to help you.
Now, Mr. Slade, you're in room 315.
Just give me the key. I'm gonna stay here.
Yes, sir.
Is it a good room?
I can take you down there.
Just tell me. Wait, here... Do you have change of a hundred?
Not on me, sir.
Here. Take it. Bring me back eighty.
Are you sure?
Yeah. Take it.
Thank you very much, sir.
So?
What, sir?
Is it the good room?
All the suites are about the same.
Come on. Just tell me. It'll save all the trouble of you showing me all the rooms.
Honestly, the suites are all about the same.
What if I gave you forty?
It's as good a suite as we have, unless you want two bedrooms.
No. That's cool. Bring me back eighty.
Thank you, sir.
Where's the place to go tonight?
As far as...?
Nightlife. Where's the hot ass?
Women?
Yeah 'women.' If I was a fag I could get laid in a subway.
I don't know, Forum's pretty hot tonight. It might be hard to get in, though.
Don't worry about me getting in. Just tell me where it is.
It's on West Broadway.
See you later.
Martel's and coke. One ice cube. In a snifter this time.
Snifter are for warm drinks 
Yeah, snifters are for cognac 
When served warm 
What's the matter? You ain't got no snifters in this motherfucker?
We have snifters
Then put my Martel's in a snifter.
Hi, uh, excuse me. I'm here to see Mr. Reuben.
You're Bobby, right?
Yeah.
Good afternoon, Bobby. I'll let Max know you're here.
He'll be a minute, hon. You want some coffee?
No thank you.
You sure? I just made it.
No, thank you. I'm good. Thanks.
Look, Bobby, I don't know what happened, and I don't want to know what happened, but something's up.
What are you talking about?
Maxie wants me to replace you on the job tomorrow. He wants you to come by the office today.
They were grabbing her fucking ass 
Hey. I don't know, I don't want to know. Far as I'm concerned, you're a good kid. I got news, though, without you here I can't keep on your friend. I got enough people pretending to sweep.
Do me a favor, Arthur, keep him on til I see what's happening.
Good luck.
Nice to meet you, Wally.
Shhh! They're sleeping.
Tell me how all this works.
They've never been separated before.
What does he want with a precog?
What do you think? So he can kill whoever he wants to without anyone knowing about it.
But there's still the other two.
Wally, the other two can still function, right?
You don't understand... they're a hive mind. It takes all three for their predictive abilities to work.
Are you telling me they can't see murders anymore?
Maybe if he'd taken one of the males. But the female, she's the key. She's the one they listen to, the one with the most talent. The one who takes care of the other two.
Jesus...
My name is Danny Witwer. I'm 
I know who you are.
This your work?
Yes.
I like it.
Thanks. You take anything in your coffee?
Cream and sugar.
I don't have any cream. Sorry.
Just sugar then. You and John ever come here?
We used to, every summer.
He's not here now, is he?
I don't have any sugar either.
Thank you. He hasn't tried to contact you?
No.
You ever heard him mention the name Leo Crow?
No, but then I don't talk to John that much anymore.
So you haven't seen his apartment?
That was our apartment.
Have you been there recently?
Since right after we lost our son.
You mean after he lost your son.
It was nobody's fault.
But John was with him at the pool?
Yes.
You said in your divorce papers that he tried to kill himself.
It wasn't a suicide attempt. I regret ever saying that.
What was it then?
The FBI found something that belonged to my son. A sandal... Anyway, John was upset. He... he...
He took out his gun and sat down to watch his home movies. This is all in your statement, Lara...
He shot a hole in the damn ceiling. So what? You lose your son, let's see how well you handle it.
Not very well, I'm sure. I'd probably start doping myself. Or maybe I'd...
Lamar Burgess thinks that you left John because he lost himself in Precrime instead of you.
I left him because every time I looked at him, I saw my son. Every time I got close to him, I smelled my little boy. That's why I left him. And now you can leave.
You know I need to use you.
To what? Trap him?
To prevent a murder. Sooner or later, he's going to contact you.
I haven't seen him in two years.
But I've seen the three hundred hours of your image he's got stored away.
He looks familiar.
Who?
The man across the street. I've seen him before...
How can you even tell? You know how blind you are without your glasses.
What about your meeting?
I'll reschedule. I've been working too much anyway.
We could have lunch together.
I'd love to, but I've got an open house today at the Ressler place.
Ah. That must be why you look so nice.
Raincheck?
Sure. Raincheck.
Howard 
I forgot my glasses.
That's why you asked to partner with me on this little sortie, isn't it?
I think you're swell company, Knott.
It's not at all that you don't trust me to be alone with the Chief. That you think I might, you know, fuck with him, if I had the chance...
People, if you don't let the spyder scan you, we'll have to come in and arrest you.
Knott!
Why don't I feel like celebrating?
Cause all of a sudden you got no one you can fucking brown nose anymore.
John Anderton was my friend!
You "friend's" a murderer and he ruined our perfect record. Six years, not one damn murder...
This is Evanna, the team pilot.
Nice to meet you. Gum?
So if you wanna kill someone, you take him to Miami.
Not after the vote next week. Once the Amendment passes, we go national, there's gonna be nowhere to run.
Can't they shut that off?
That's the Red Ball Alarm.
Crime of passion. No premeditation. They show up late. Most of our scrambles are flash events like this one. We rarely see anything with premeditation anymore.
People have gotten the message. Gum?
The information we need is embedded in the grain of wood. And since each piece is unique, the shape and grain is impossible to duplicate.
I'm sure you've all grasped the legalistic drawback to precrime methodology.
Because of the nature of murder. "There's nothing more destructive to the metaphysical fabric that binds us than the untimely murder of one human being by another".
Somehow, I don't think that was Walt Whitman.
Don't worry. I'll bring him in unharmed.
Actually, Gordon, you're not gonna do that. I'm taking control of the team.
What?!
Sir, the team's gonna be light without those men.
Yes, I know.
Here's where we're at. Three men in a room. The victims here. Anderton here, and this unidentified male out the window. The exterior of the adjacent building suggests public housing, but I can't make out the location. Government architecture is modern/conformist which means 
There's thousands of units like this one.
They're everywhere.
Anderton's smart enough to go where electronic billboards and other media can't ID him to pick his pocket. There's fewer consumers down there, which means fewer scanners to target him.
No offense, sir, but why wouldn't he just run?
Because he thinks he's innocent.
There are two others in the room besides Anderton and Crow.
Two?
It doesn't matter. He wins.
We can stop him.
She's in the room with him when he kills Crow. She's already a part of his future.
He's trying to prove his innocence.
He can't download her without a lot of technical help.
No. He can't...
There a maid in this hotel?
I don't know, why?
If you were a child killer, you took these pictures, would you leave them out on the bed for anyone to find?
They could have been put away. Anderton could have found them.
What kind of cop were you before this?
I was a Treasury Agent for eight years. Why?
Treasury... Then this would be your first actual murder scene.
I worked homicide before I went federal. This is what we would've called an "orgy of evidence". Do you know how many orgies I had as a homicide copy, Gordon?
How many?
None. This was arranged.
Near Death's real popular right now, which includes everything from getting hit by a car, to falling off a high building to plane crashes. It's a big rush, you come out the other side without a heart attack.
I wanna kill my boss.
Uhhuh. Okay. You got some images I can work with?
Right here.
Good. What I can do is set you up down in the 
Uh, yeah, being concert master of the Philadelphia Symphony Orchestra is one of our most popular choices...
No, I wanna kill my boss!
Get the hell outta here. You sick bastard.
He came to see you yesterday. Right before he got tagged. What did you talk about?
The Mets. John doesn't think they've got a deep enough pitching roster this year, and I'm inclined to agree.
Why are you protecting him? You knew he was doping, yet you did nothing about it.
The man lost a child, for Christ's sake...
Six years ago. What did you two talk about yesterday afternoon?
None of your damn business.
Oh, it's all my damn business now, Lamar. Investigation of a supervising office for a capital crime falls under federal jurisdiction... so as to rule out any possibility of conspiracy. He's my suspect.
He's my subordinate!
Shall we call the Attorney General? I'm sure he'd be happy to clarify the issue for you.
I don't want John Anderton hurt.
Lamar, I found something.
What?
I don't wanna say over the phone, but I think we may be chasing the wrong man.
Where are you?
Good God. What was that?
Wait, just a second...
He told me about this. You got this from Containment?
Yes. This is from the twins, Arthur and Dashiel. Agatha's stream was missing. Now this one is from the cyberparlor. Anderton downloaded it directly from Agatha. Watch...
It's the same prevision.
Not quite.
Now the second image. Watch the water. The wind's changed. The ripples are going the other way.
I don't understand 
This murder is happening at two different times.
According to the Sentry, Anderton was watching this at Containment right before he was tagged.
I know. He came to me, told me about the missing data stream. He was concerned that you might find it.
I did find it. It was inside of Agatha all this time. So the question is, why would someone want this erased from the data file?
Danny, tell me what you're thinking.
I'm thinking someone got away with murder.
How?
By fooling the system. All someone would have to do is wait for Precrime to stop the murder from taking place, then, a few minutes later, commit the crime in exactly the same way.
Yes... It's called an echo. The act of murder is such a violent disturbance in the future continuum that it sometimes repeats to the Precogs.
Precog Deja Vu...
We teach the tech's to identify them and disregard...
So there is a way to fool the system?
Yes.
Of course, it would have to be someone with access to the Prevision in the first place, someone fairly high up 
Shhh. You know what I hear?
What?
Nothing. No footsteps coming up the stairs. No hovercraft out the window. No clickity click of little spyders. No one crashing through that door. And do you know why I don't hear any of those things, Danny? Because right now, the Precogs can't see.
The guy from USA Today is here.
Tell him not now.
He just wanted a few minutes before 
Not. Now.
Sir, the press conference is starting.
I'll be right there.
Congratulations, sir.
My God...
How did you get this?
I padded your expense account for the last six months.
You have an emergency call on your private line.
Thank you. This is Burgess.
This is all my fault.
No, it isn't, Lamar. There was nothing anyone could do.
I haven't worn this damn thing in years. I just wanted to make sure it fits before tonight.
You look great.
It's insanity around here.
I thought you were retiring?
I was, but this whole incident with John made me realize the fragility of what we've built here. This is John's legacy as much as mine and I want to protect that.
Who?
Anne Lively. John was talking about her right before they took him.
I don't know who that is.
John said something about him being set up because he "found out about her."
We know why John was tagged.
He also said Crow was a fake.
Lamar, do you know the reason why John came here to work with you?
Sean 
No. That's what everyone thinks. John shot a man dead in Baltimore six months before.
I understand.
No. I don't think you do. The other day, when he came to the cottage, he talked about a lot of things, but Danny Witwer, the man he was supposed to have just killed? He didn't mention him. He didn't say his name even once.
But I also know why he married you: you're as stubborn as he is.
Lamar 
All right. Tell you what I'll do. First thing Monday, I'll look over the Witwer evidence and I'll have Gideon run the Containment files, see if anyone drowned a woman named  what did you say her name was?
Anne Lively... But I never said she drowned.
John?
He's dead, Lara.
Oh, God, what did you do?
Nothing. I didn't kill him.
Then how did he 
Lara, I don't know why this is happening. I just know they're setting me up. I can't trust anybody. I don't know who to talk to or where to go... Lara? Are you there?
Something wrong?
I'm a little dizzy...
Yes, I'm afraid that would be from the Doll's Eye.
The what?
The vine  the Baneberry that scratched you during your illegal climb over my wall...
You have three minutes to tell me what you're doing here before I feed you to a few of my more predacious plants.
I'm... not... a... killer.
Just what is it you think I can do for you?
You can tell me how someone... could fake a prevision.
And how would I know that?
What's so funny?
If the unintended consequences of a series of genetic mistakes and science gone haywire can be called invention, then yes, I invented precrime.
You don't seem all that proud.
I'm not. I was trying to heal them, not turn them into... something else.
Heal who?
The innocents we now use to stop the guilty.
You're talking about the precogs...
You think the three in the tank come from a test tube? They're merely the ones who survived.
It began as play. A guessing game like you play with any toddler, except these children always guessed right. And then the nightmares started. They were all different, but all the same. They were all about murder. And the murders were all happening.
And how did Lamar become involved?
Back then, he was still a DA, and quite a few parents of my patients had passed through his courtroom. You have to understand, these people were the dregs of society. But once they saw their children... he decided he would do whatever he could for them. He's that way, you know, paternal about certain things. Precrime. The precogs. You.
You say some of the children died?
So many of them... despite what we did for them. Or maybe because of what we did to them. It doesn't matter. It's a perfect system now, isn't it?
I'm not a murderer. I've never even met the man I'm supposed to kill.
And, yet, a chain of events has started. A chain that will lead inexorably to his death.
Not if I stay away from him.
How can you avoid a man you've never met?
So you won't help me?
I can't help you. No one can. The Precogs are never wrong.
What?
Most of the time, all three Precognitives will see an event in the same way. But once in a while, one of them will see things differently than the other two.
Jesus Christ  why didn't I know about this?
Because these Minority Reports are destroyed the instant they occur.
Why?
Obviously, for Precrime to function, there can't be any suggestion of fallibility. After all, what good is a Justice system that instills doubt? It may be reasonable, but it's still doubt.
You're saying that I've halo'd innocent people?
I'm saying that every so often those accused of a precrime might, just might, have an alternate future.
Does Burgess know about this? About the Minority Report?
I used to joke with Lamar that we were the mother and father of Precrime. Well, in my experience, parents often see their children as they want them to be, not as they are.
Answer my question. Did Lamar Burgess know about the Minority Report?
Yes, of course, he knew, but at the time, he felt  we both felt their existence was... an insignificant variable.
Insignificant to you maybe, but what about those people I put away with alternate futures? My God, if the country knew there was a chance they might not 
The system would collapse.
I believe in that system...
Do you? Really?
You want to bring it down.
But you will bring it down if you kill Leo Crow. Why, that will be the most spectacular public display of how Precrime... didn't work.
I'm not gonna kill anybody.
Hold that thought.
Why should I trust you?
You shouldn't. You shouldn't trust anyone... certainly not the Attorney General who wants it all for himself. Not the young federal agent who wants your job. Not even the old man who just wants to hang onto what he's created. Don't trust anyone. Just find the Minority Report.
You said they're destroyed.
I said the record is destroyed. The original report exists for all time. I designed the system so that whenever a report occurred, it would be stored in a safe place  but not declared.
What safe place is that?
The safest place of all.
Where?
Inside the Precog who predicted it. All you have to do is download it.
That's all, huh? Just walk right into Precrime, go into the Temple, somehow tap into the Precogs, and then download this Minority Report...
If... you have one.
 and then walk out.
Actually, I think you'll have to run out, but yes, that's what you have to do.
You're insane or you think I am.
I'll get EYEscanned a dozen times before I get within ten miles of Precrime. They'll pick me up...
Sometimes in order to see the light, you have to risk the dark.
How do I even know which one has it?
It's always in the more gifted of the three.
Which one is that?
The female.
Six years ago. Baltimore. You grabbed a kid at Francis public pool in the West End.
Did I? I don't recall... I got lots of kids from that place 
Do you know who I am?
Some  somebody's father?
His name was Sean. Six years ago. Francis pool.
... and that I needed his help. It wasn't so bad really. I sang him a song, made him laugh, bought him a pretzel. I took care of him. I made him happy.
He's alive?
Where've you got him? Is he all right? Tell me, you fuck  WHERE IS HE?!
I put him in a barrel and sunk him in the bay.
It floated back up. I had to take him out and 
NO!
You're not gonna kill me?
No.
But you have to. They said you would.
The precogs were wrong.
If you don't kill me, my family gets nothing!
You're supposed to kill me. He said you would.
Who said I would?
Look, I've put my family through enough misery. You gotta kill me! This way I can leave 'em something.
Crow. I'm not gonna kill you.
Look, believe me, I know it's hard, but you gotta do it 
I'm asking you again, who made you do this?
I don't know  I never saw his face. All I know is, the next day I was out, so the guy must've had juice somewhere. Look, man, you gotta go through with this.
What the fuck is going on?
What about the picture 
Fake. He gave it to me. Now   shoot me, Goddammit, before I lose my nerve!
Tell me, who was it, set this up?
If I tell you, my family gets nothing.
Who made you do this?
Kill me!
Tell me!
Let go of the gun.
You're not gonna kill me...
Goodbye, Crow.
I scored a goal!
That's great.
I won!
What a big boy. How old are you?
Four. Wow. What a big boy. I love you, Sean.
I love you, too! I love you daddy. Love ya, dad.
Okay... now let me time you.
Are you kidding? There's absolutely positively no way, on my best day, I could ever beat twelve seconds!
Come on!
All right, I'll try...
Sean  you're not real.
You gotta have faith, Dad.
It's a little late for that.
Wanna hear something funny?
What the hell.
I lived for a year with a man who was pretending to be my father. He took me all over the world.
You're alive?
No. He got tired of pretending.
Oh, Sean 
The funny thing is, I started to believe he really was my Dad.
Sean 
I feel bad about that. I need you to forgive me.
I forgive you.
Once I even told him I loved him.
I forgive you...
The more you want to believe something, the easier it is to be fooled.
I was looking for you...
I know that. I know you would have done anything to find me. I know you would have died for me.
I wanted to.
Goodbye, Dad...
Who are you?
I'm your son. I'm you.
Sean, wait...
Hold your breath, Dad...
Detective. Nice of you to come down here. Seeing as every cop in the world is looking for you right now. Jesus, what's up with your eye?
I need your help.
Well, hey, you didn't have to come all the way down here. For you, Chief, I make housecalls...
I need help with her.
Well, hello there, honeypie.
I'm impressed, Anderton. You're on the lam, but you still got the time and energy to slice off a little jerky for yourself.
Rufus. She's a precog.
She's a precog?
That's right.
Are you reading my mind right now?
Rufus, for Christ's sake, get up.
I'm sorry for whatever I'm gonna do! And I swear, I didn't do any of the stuff I did!
She's got information inside of her. I need you to get it out.
No. No way. I wouldn't even know where to begin! Those thoughts about my cousin Elena  they were just thoughts. I would never 
C'mon, Rufus, you've been busted twice for felony hacking.
So?
So now I need you to hack into her.
I tell you what. I do this, I get to keep whatever images I get from her head.
They don't belong to anybody.
Then take her to Radio Shack.
Stop 
Tell me how.
What happened? Where's the rest?
I guess that's all of it.
Rufus, play it back...
Uh, I'll try...
I can't touch you! And John, you can't be in here! You'll confuse them!
Wally. This is Danny Witwer. He's from Justice and we're to give him a full run of the farm.
They're not in any pain. We keep their heads pretty well stocked with dopamine and endorphins. Plus, we maintain careful control over their serotonin levels  don't want 'em to drift off to sleep, but they can't be kept too awake either.
It helps if you don't think of them as human.
Her pituitary dumped a week's worth into her system... What did you do to her?
Nothing... she grabbed me, and then there was an image on the screen...
She grabbed you? Impossible. The Precogs aren't even aware of us. In the milk all they see is the future.
She was looking right at me.
It could have been a nightmare... Sometimes they dream about the old murders.
She spoke to me.
To you? I don't think so... What'd she say?
She said...
Wally, listen to me...
Do I know you? Who are you?
I like you, Wally, so I'm not gonna kick you, or hit you with anything, but only if you promise to help me...
Oh... Hi, John.
Are these all of her previsions?
There's no way of knowing for sure. She could've forgotten whatever it is you're looking for...
Just go to the beginning!
Okay. Fine. Where the hell is that?
I'm sorry Danny, but I'll have to give you the full tour later on.
Your secretaries were all kind enough to give me a look around the office...
As I recall, they outlawed compression firearms in the District ten years ago.
They did. Make yourself comfortable. We'll be back in an hour.
You mind if I tag along?
But it's not the future if you stop it. Isn't that a fundamental paradox?
Yes, it is.
Why did you catch that?
Because it was going to fall.
You're certain?
Yes.
But it didn't fall. You caught it.
The fact that you prevented it from happening doesn't change the fact that it was going to happen.
You ever get any false positives? Someone intends to kill his boss or his wife, but they never go through with it. How do the precogs tell the difference?
The Precogs don't see what you intend to do, only what you will do.
Then why can't they see rapes, or assaults... or suicides?
It was Iris Hineman. She developed the Precogs, designed the system and pioneered the interface.
Speaking of interfacing, I'd love to say hello.
To Hineman?
To them.
Cops aren't allowed inside the temple.
Really? You've never been inside?
We keep a strict separation so that no one can accuse us of tampering.
So I'll be the first one to go in then?
Maybe you didn't hear me.
If it's a question of authority.
There's no question. You don't have any.
I have a warrant in my pocket that says different.
I find it interesting that some people have begun to deify the precogs.
The precogs are pattern recognition filters, nothing more.
But you call this room the "temple".
Just a nickname.
The oracle isn't where the power is anyway. The power's always been with the priests. Even if they had to invent the oracle.
Sorry. Old habit. I spent three years at Fuller Seminary before I became a cop. My father was a minister. Lutheran.
What does he think of your chosen line of work?
I don't know. He was shot and killed when I was fourteen on the steps of his church in Bethesda.
At least now you  and I  have the chance to make sure that kind of thing doesn't happen to anyone ever again.
Why don't you cut the cute act, Danny, and tell me exactly what it is you're looking for?
Flaws.
There hasn't been a murder in six years. There's nothing wrong with the system. It's perfect.
I agree. The system is perfect. If there's a flaw, it's human. It always is. Thank you for the tour, Wally.
You set me up...
I'll write the paranoia off to the whiff you been doping on all night.
It seems I've found a flaw, John You.
You gonna tell on me?
Possession alone will cost you six months, not to mention your badge.
Okay, Jad, what's coming?
Red Ball  double homicide: one male, one female. Killer's male, white, 40's.
We need confirmation on the time frame. Location still uncertain. Remote witnesses are hooked in...
Case #1108, previsualized by the Precogs and recorded on holoshpere by Precrime's qstacks. My fellow witnesses for case #1108 are Dr. Katherine James and Chief Justice Frank Pollard.
We can't grab it...
Run the subscription list...
Got him in the Foxhall. 4421 Gainsborough.
Send a DCPD blue & white out there, set up a perimeter and tell 'em we're en route. What's our confirmed time?
From solar position, Trig & Image confirms it at approximately eight ohfour a.m.
Somewhere near the capital?
No maglev system.
The mall?
Georgetown.
Look at the kid. In this one, he's on the left of the man in the suit.
Yeah? So?
Now look at him...
Go ahead.
Did he close the front door?
What?
Did Marks close the front door?!
You guys are nodding your heads like you actually know what the hell he's talking about.
Come on, Chief, you think about it, the way we work  changing destiny and all  we're more like clergy than cops.
Uhhuh. Jad?
Sir?
Go back to work. All of you.
Jad. How come you're not out there with Father Witwer?
We're in motion on something.
Red Ball?
Nope. Somebody's thinking about this one.
Amazing there's someone within two hundred miles actually dumb enough to still do that.
The victim's name is Leo Crow.
Start a location run and a contact search for future victim Leo Crow. And, Jad, I'll need a Last Known Sheet when you get it.
I've got no address  last known or otherwise  no tax returns for the last five years.
Check NCIC, maybe he's got a record. Then send a protection team as soon as we lock the location.
I show time of occurrence, Friday at fifteenzerosix hours.
That was easy.
Confirm with trig and image.
Any ID on the shooter yet?
Still scrubbing... looks like there's a third party, somebody wearing shades just out the window...
Uh, yeah, you mind getting me a piece of that cake they're eating down there? I'm starving.
Sure, Chief. I think I'll grab one for myself while I'm at it...
Take your time.
Seventeen minutes.
Armor up  sicksticks and concussion guns  this is gonna be close.
Chief, the investigator from the Fed is here.
You're kidding, that's today?
I wrote it down in your calendar, then left a message at your house 
All I need, some twink from the Fed poking around right now. Check again with the paper, they had it forwarded. See if the neighbors know where they went, check all relations 
Uh, sir...
Get him some coffee and tell him to wait outside.
What he's doing now, we call "scrubbing the image", looking for clues as to where the murder's going to happen.
The brick has been repointed, the glass is original with new glazing bars. I show composite mouldings with dentils. Someone took care in the renovation. Let's find the architect...
Victims are pronounced here. Killers here. We never touch anything.
I show a cop on horseback.
Don't run, Chief. You know we'll catch you. You trained us.
Everybody runs.
You don't have to do this, Chief.
You don't have to chase me, Fletcher.
Tell me not to worry, John.
Don't worry, Lamar.
The nation votes this week...
Which makes this the worst possible time to show that we're only human.
Uhhuh...
Has the observer from Justice shown up yet?
Hang on, Lamar 
And this is exactly the kind of behavior that will give them an excuse to do it.
Lamar, I'm sorry. I don't know what 
Don't apologize, John.
You understand that a week from now people are going to vote on whether or not what we've been doing down here has been some nobleminded enterprise or a chance to change the way this country fights crime.
I understand. Sir.
I need you to do two things for me. One, watch Danny Witwer.
Yes, sir.
You can let him look around, answer his questions, but watch him. If there's any problems, make sure we know about it first.
I understand. What's the other thing?
Tuck in your shirt.
And you say the third prevision was, what, a little fuzzy or something?
I'm saying the third prevision wasn't there. And that's not all. I spent a few hours down there and it turns out there's a dozen more cases with missing previsions.
Danny Witwer is scheduled for a tour of Containment tomorrow 
So give him a tour. He doesn't know enough to ask the right questions.
If he's looking for a flaw in the system 
He's not. He's looking for a flaw in us, John.
Lara called me.
What?
She's worried about you. And, quite frankly, so am I.
I'm fine.
I hear you've been spending a lot of time in the sprawl.
I go running down there.
In the middle of the night?
What if Danny Witwer came to you right now and insisted on a full chem run?
I'm fine, Lamar.
You understand, John, that the minute Precrime goes national, they're going to take it away from us.
We won't let them.
No? How's an old man and a cop on the whiff ever going to stop them?
Just so you know, I've overridden the vehicle locator. I just wanted to talk to you before Justice 
Justice already knows. Talk to me, John. Tell me what's happening?
This is all Witwer. He's setting me up.
Stop. Just wait. Who's the victim?
Somebody named Leo Crow.
And who the hell is that?
I have no idea. I've never heard of him. But I'm supposed to kill him in less than thirtysix hours.
All right, John, just take a breath, let's think about this...
I'm out of breath! I'm a fucking fugitive!
Then come to my house. We'll talk 
I can't. They're following me right now. They'll meet me there. They'll halo me.
How could Witwer have accessed the case file?
Can you fake the cerebral output?
We're years from that. John, I'm asking you: please, come in, we'll shut down the system until we get this thing figured out.
You know I can't do that. You can't do that... Lamar, I need you to talk to Wally, see if Witwer's gone inside the temple again. Then ask Jad for any off hour EYEdents into the analytical room 
John. Just tell me, who's Leo Crow?
John. Please. Listen to me 
I'm not getting halo'd.
You can't run 
Everybody runs.
John 
I just wanted to congratulate you. You did it. You've created a world without murder. So what if you had to kill someone to do it.
People want to believe in the system. That's the beauty of it...
Beauty? The precogs don't even always agree with each other!
No doubt the Precogs have already seen this.
No doubt.
Then go ahead, pull the trigger.
You the sentry?
Yes, sir. I'm Gideon. The music relaxes the prisoners.
I don't ever see any of you precops down here, I'm not in trouble am I?
No, you're not in trouble. I'm interested in a murder.
Kill type?
Drowning.
Victim's a white female.
This about the Justice Department? They laid on a tour for tomorrow a.m. Told me to wear a tie. You like this one?
That's an old one. One of our first.
This is the official composite of the three precogs?
That's right. It's a combined data stream based on all three previsions.
Show me just Agatha's data stream.
For that, we have to go for a ride.
You the only sentry?
I work graveyard, swing and day all by my lonesome.
Hence the expression...
... Graveyard shift.
Not to mention, "Saved by the bell".
Why's he still a John Doe? Why wasn't he ever ID's from an EYEscan?
On account of those are not his eyes. He had 'em swapped out to fool the scanners.
Huh, we don't seem to have her data.
Try again.
No... we have the two previsions from the twins right here, but... ... I can't pull up any data from the female. Probably just a glitch.
Hey, you wanna know where the word came from, "glitch?"
Just tell me about the intended victim. This Anne Lively...
Looks like she was a neuroin addict like John Doe here, but I show an address history that includes the Beaton Clinic.
So she cleaned up. Where is she now?
You're part of my flock now, John. Welcome.
Lara 
It's actually kind of a rush. They say you get visions; that your life flashes before your eyes. That all your dreams come true.
Don't worry. I could cut open your chest, sew a dead cat in there and you'd never get an infection. Not with the spectrum of antibios I'll be shooting into you.
That's comforting.
You do understand I can't just give you new irises. The scanners will read the scar tissue. Alarms will go off. Large men with guns will appear...
Right. I know 
Anesthesia. Try to relax, John. I'm saying I'll have to remove your eyes. Completely.
Yeah 
And replace them with new ones.
I know that, but I wanna keep the old ones.
Why?
Because my mother gave them to me. What do you care? They're no good to you on the secondary market anyway.
Whatever you say, John.
That's not much.
It's all I could safely move.
Tell you what, since you and I go way back, I'll give you my Old Pal discount. How's that sound?
You don't remember me, do you?
We know each other?
Oh, yes.
From where? D.C.?
Baltimore. Eastside. Solomon P. Eddie M.D. I was a plastic surgeon.
I put you away 
Yes, you did.
You made those tapes...
They were performance pieces.
You set your patients on fire!
And put them out. Some not as quickly as others, but let's change the subject, shall we? The future is much more interesting than the past. Don't you think?
So uh, if you were a plastic surgeon before...
How can I do what I do now? Let's just say I spent a lot of time in the prison library.
There's food in the refrigerator. Make sure you drink a lot of water.
How do I find the 
Here 
It goes from the bathroom to the kitchen.
I can't even stand up 
I know you're in a hurry, so I juiced up the nanoreconstruction around your new eyes.
The nano... what?
Organic microbots that reconstruct the nerves and blood vessels. It'll feel like fleas chewing on your eyeballs. But whatever you do, don't scratch.
I'm setting up a timer. When it goes off tomorrow, take off your bandages and get the hell out of here. But not before then, or you'll 
 go blind. I know.
 but he didn't.
Then who was he?
Just some guy... they found.
Found? Where?
Somewhere.
Think, John. Why would they set you up?
Because I found out about her...
About who?
Anne Lively...
I'm so sorry... I just want him back... I want him back so bad...
I know... I do, too...
John? What is it?
How did I not see this? Agatha, who killed you mother? Who killed Anne Lively?
Wally!
Can you see?
I'm sorry, but I need your help. You contain information. I need to know how to get it. Can you just tell me who Leo Crow is? Can you tell me if 
Is it now?
What?
Is it now?
What?
They're inside.
Who?
Take it.
Agatha...
Agatha 
Can you see the balloon man?
What?
Drop some money.
Forget that guy 
Do it. Right here. On the ground.
No. Follow him.
He'll turn around.
He won't.
Agatha...
Wait.
He's here.
Anderton, leave.
I can't. I have to know.
Please 
I have to find out what happened to my life. Agatha. I'm not going to kill the man. I don't even know him.
Oh, God...
What is it?
Every day for the last six years I've thought about only two things. The first was what my son would look like if he were alive today. If I would even recognize him if I saw him on the street. The second was what I would do to the man who took him.
Anderton 
You were right. I'm not being set up.
Please, I want to go back...
I can't leave. You said so yourself, there is no Minority Report. I don't have an alternative future.
But you still have a choice. The others never had a chance to see their future. You did.
Where are we going?
Someplace safe.
I have to go back.
Why?
The other two will die without me.
You want to spend the rest of your life in the temple?
I always wondered what the world would be like. But now that I've seen it, I don't need to see any more. It's all right. Once I'm in the tank, I won't remember any of this.
Agatha, you're never going back there.
I am going back. I see myself there.
Can't you see? She just wanted her little girl back.
Who wanted her little girl back?
The drowning woman. Anne... But it was too late. Her little girl was already gone.
She died?
She grew up.
She's still alive?
She's not alive, but she didn't die.
Oh, Jesus...
I'm sorry, John, but you have to run again.
What 
RUN!
Now, what are we looking at? Keys. Look at them all. Why do we have them? Mr. President?
Well, uh... so we can got into things, I guess.
That's why you have doors, Mr. President. Keys, however, are to lock the doors. And locks, as you know, are to keep people out. Why? Fear. You humans are afraid. So you set up boundaries. Borders. Your car. Your home. Your country. All the while your true enemy could very well be considered already here among you. Well I am here to let that enemy go. Because there's a border you didn't even know existed. It's the border to the Universe. And unlike your other borders, you humans didn't set this border up to keep other planets from you. It was set up by others, to keep you away from them. Until now. Because I have been sent here to open the door. To present you, so to speak, with the key to the universe.
Why, you might ask? Because you're ready. Because you've finally gone as far as you can go without it.
If I may, sir... what exactly are you offering?
A good question. And a simple answer. No more hunger. No more smog. No more overpopulation. No more war.
And I assume you're bringing this to us because we're the most powerful country on the planet...
That and, well... I want my friends to see me on CNN. Okay, I will admit it: ours is an illegal hookup. We'll gladly pay when you can get your trucks out to install it.
How's Dee?
Fine. Good.
Jupiter, actually. well, one of the moons.
So whattya say, kid? You in or out?
Kay? What's your 20?
Highway 119, just west of Smith. Why?
I need you in Philadelphia. I got a code 90, in ahigh school.
What the hell is going on?
He's gone, too.
What about the other agents? Ella? Tee?
Elle's up in Portland three of her charges left visibly at a Trailblazers game. Shots got a lot to mop up. Tee says his Shanghai quadrasectionals haven't been around since morning.
Even that little bug you found in Sudbury seems to have taken off.
Jesus, everyone's moving. Could be an assembly. Does it look aggressive?
Hard to tell. I hope not.
Keep an eye on things there. We'll see what we can find out at Ernie Goosels.
They're gone.
Dee? What are you doing here?
I'm getting a trajectory...
What do we have? Are we showing anything?
And they're buying it?
They went right to the President.
They went to the President? Directly? THEY WENT OVER OUR HEADS?
As far as I can tell, the guy's what he says he is  alone, and unarmed. All he wants is five minutes to introduce himself to the public.
Where's he making his big speech?
They haven't announced it yet. All I know is we're in motion for the most watched media event in history.
Well, it wasn't in the jar...
Did it leave?
Actually, I don't know...
Oh shit!
Yeah? What's up?
I got a planet check on that bug. It's from way the hell out in the third belt. it's organic, formed in the same blast that made our solar system.
And get this: you know how humans evolved from primates? Well guess what the dominant life form on planet evolved from?
Don't tell me. Insects.
How'd you know?
Just a guess. But I think found a nest.
We're from Scientific American. We read about your discovery. We'd like to take a look.
Scientific American? Really?
This it?
Yeah. Nov I know it looks normal, but watch this.
I mean, I dunno. I've seen insects with really great camoflauge ability. But never like this.
May I have a look?
We're with the immigration and Naturalization Service, Intergalactic Bureau. We monitor allalien activity in and around Earth and its enveloping atmosphere.
Come again?
Hmnn... wall, it's funny, cause usually I'm not all that attracted to stupid guys, but
But, unfortunately, you're even less attracted to guys you've never seen before.
We need to talk to you about the alien.
The what?
Which way?
Seriously. I'm not going any further until you tell who you are.
Really nice wheels, by the way.
Wait listen
Listen to me. You're holding something very very dangerous. You've just iced 350 of your pals
They're not my pals
They're not even gonna be your enemiea if you don't give that to me really soon.
What if I don't?
In about 10 seconds they're gonna start losing brain cells at the rate of about a million a minute.
Will it lower the curve?
I don't think it's a tradeoff you really want to make. Now give it to me I can reverse the effects if you give it to me now.
I wanna make a deal.
Found it.
Tell us the truth. You don't just find these things, at least not in this neighborhood.
I promised I wouldn't tell.
I just wanted to scare em. So I go in to buy a starter's pistol you know, the kind they use at track meets that shoot blanks and this guy, he said if I really wanted to mess with with them, he had just the thing...
This guy. Where was he?
So... now what? Cattle call again?
We've got about eight or nine prospects I want you look
Yeah, I'll talk to you.
... recent landings within a hundred mile radius of Sudbury, Virginia?
Nothing.
Nothing at all? Now? Last month? Anything in the last few years?
Nope. Nothing at all.
I know what this is. Zed, you in?
Yeah, Kay?
Did our friend announce when he's making his speech?
Noon exactly.
Did he say where?
Actually, yeah
Wouldn't happen to be the Lincoln Memorial, would it?
How'd you know that? Kay?
Cause I think we're looking at it.
Nowhere.
Nowhere, huh? odd you'd get all dressed up like that just to be going nowhere.
Er. well, nowhere special.
I don't believe you, Mikey. And you know why I don't believe you? Cause last time you said that you and your pals left eight dozen empty beer cans on the other side of the moon.
Yeah, wall, you know, I was just going there... to pick then up.
Oh yeah? Well if you're suddenly such a good samaritan, why didn't you file a departure report, like you're supposed to? You know how many rules you've just broken?
I dunno. One?
Try seven. From unauthorized mobilization to appearing unconcealed before a resident. You wanna tell me what's going on? Huh?
It's... coming.
What are you talking about, it's coming? What's coming?
Pardon me. I hate to break up this lovely little group hug, but we people aren't ready for what we have. How is this going to help?
How could it not?
Why don't you ask the Mosebacke? Brazil. Until 44 years ago they ate with their hands, lived in huts, and didn't even know the rest of the world existed. 44 years ago a well intentioned missionary gave them a fork. Today, they don't exist.
Come on now. People are smart.
No a Person is smart. People are dumb. And the more people you put together, the dumber they get. And you know that.
Not bad. Briliiant, actually. You come unarmed, and alone. Cause your army's been growing underground for what? 100 years? 150?
Give or take. It was right around your civil war, I think, when I was here last. We were waiting till your planet was warm enough.
Goodwill...
Most entirely. Earth has been overrun with an infestation of a species which, in order for the planet to survive, must be exterminated.
What a coincidence, cause I was just thinking about you, too, Jack. Recognize this?
No.
Maybe you need a closer look.
The kid looked desperate. I figured...
You figured what?
I figured it didn't matter. It's my last day of business. I was wrong. I'm sorry. Hey, look what I got for you a freefloating plasma pad? One of the good ones, too, with zoids.
Your licence is revoked. Permanently.
I understand. I understand, thank you. How about a transmographic dexahydrochlorophallomixaloosalyser?
And I'm arranging deportation papers.
Yes. Yes, that's eminently fair of you.
And I'm bringing you in and locking you up until you tell me
Let's go, Jeebs. Downtown.
You're not taking me in!
So, I guess you could say you're really into insects...
Actually, they disgust me. But that's what I love about them. Like a car wrack, you know, how you shouldn't look, but you always pull over and watch real close, or even pretend you're a reporter so you can get even closer and take pictures?
Or when someone has a hideous birthmark and all you do is stare. I really like that. Let the other girls have the guys like you. Chiseled jaw, perfect nose, quirky dimples. I find you all so boring.
I'd prefer if you were just a little more blunt.
So... how'd you hear about this?
Oh, yeah, well, you know. I'm a big fan. I've read all your work.
Yeah, right. Even I can barely read all my work.
Right, right I like that stuff.
With exclusionary frectoinhibitors?
Exactly. I very much enjoy that.
Do have any idea what I just said?
Once just once I thought I'd made the discovery of a lifetime...
Actually, you may have.
It's hard to find. It's an old civil war cemetery. Nobody ever goes there. So... what is it you say you do?
I guess you could say we're entopologists of a sort.
I don't think so. I mean, him, he could be a scientist, maybe. But you... Exterminator, I'd understand. But entopolgist? No way.
Why not?
Well, first of all, it's entomologist.
I swear to God, that was not here two days ago...
What is it?
It's the most amazing insect nest I've ever seen. And I'll tell you one thing, it sure as hell ain't the Andean Mollatoosa.
But it's definitely a nest, isn't it?
Man, hey maybe you are an entopologist after all.
When?
It would've had to have been recently within a few weeks.
So... how did they get here?
What do we do?
What do we do? Lean into it.
What the hell does that mean?
Actually... I don't know.
Is it my eyes... or is that thing a little...
Out of focus?
Okay. If you've got a bug problema big one. And they're swarming and there's no way to shoot them all individually... how do you get rid of them?
The only thing I could think of would be... you'd have to get rid of the queen.
What if you have the foggiest clue as to where the queen is?
Are you sure you don't?
What are you doing?
They respond to fear, right?
Yeah ... ?
Well I'm going to give them something to be afraid of.
I'm just wondering what's so great out there that everyone's trying to get to it?
Or what's no horrible down here that everyone's trying to avoid It?
Why does it feel like the only thing scarier than having a bunch of aliens on the planet... is having then leave the planet?
Yeah. His dream and our worst nightmare.
You know, there's something we never really thought of...
Sure.
Me, too. I feel a long day coming on.
I put word out you know how long it takes to get the signals across.
Kay. Seriously. What if he actually means what he says?
Well, how about if I guess, then? Black: Vast space. Deep. Spiritual. The essence of infinity.
We wear black.
Oh. Right. I guess that's kind of cool, too, in it's own way. Course, this isn't really black; it's kind of a dull, dirty, tarry sort of noncolor, isn't it?
The point is to not call attention to ourselves.
I understand. Hey, it works for the Hasids, right? No one recognizes them.
It's a bug.
Right.
But not a BUG bug it's an insect.
So... lemme get this straight. We got the use of all sorts of technology from all sorts of other planets. We got information no one else in the world is privy to. And we're in a 1986 Ford LTD about to go look at an insect?
So what's the problem?
Well, first of all... I gotta think we could still blend in pretty nice in a Ferrari Testerrosa. I mean, there is a lot of `em on the street these days, and... uh...
I tell you, if we really wanted to bland in, that'd what we'd be wearing. I think it'd be a good look for you, too. I'll even help you choose a tattoo.
It's the way we do it. The way we've always done it.
I know, but we're on a college campus...
This is a college? I'm sorry, I thought it was a carnival.
I think she's the alien. In any case, she's clearly spent my too much time alone in this room.
Keep her out of here while I check it out.
I'm, uh... real curious about your met up here. I see you have the, uh, doubleofficetype thing going here..
I'm just saying it was cold. I think she kind of liked me.
She didn't even know you. .
I know, that's usually the only time I actually have a shot. And what if I wanted to see her again? I'd have to completely reintroduce myself.
Such a shame, too. Cause you made such a good impression the first time.
Hey, I was workin' her. I was workin' my thing.
Just so I understand... you're "thing" is... acting like an idiot? Or is it actually being an idiot? Besides
I know, I know. I read the manual. No attachments. We work alone. Blah. blah.
If you don't have anyone to tell, you won't tell anyone. Believe me, you get used to it.
I think you're too used to it. If you ask me, you've been doing this job too long.
You don't know the half of it.
What'd you do before this, anyway? Wait let me guess. Ice sculpture? Rock?
I taught kindergarten.
Ha ha. No, really.
It was a long time ago.
Well, one thing's for sure. You could certainly lighten up.
Why?
Why? Well, it wouldn't hurt you to have a little more fun. I know I don't know you all that well, but
You don't know me at all.
Um Kay?
Kay, um... how, uh, fast does this thing actually go ... ?
Let's see... that was second gear..Kay shifts into THIRD. Jay winces.
What?
Something seem unusual to you about that?
Uh... you mean... a family of sixeyed, redfaced space creatures travelling to New Mexico to have dinner with their cousins, the invertebrates? Seemed pretty god damned ordinary to me.
If it was just a meal, why did they have so much luggage?
I dunno. Maybe it was baby supplies, Kay starts the car, starts to pull a Uturn.
Let's check am out.
what's this?
It's an Edna named after Zed's ex wife. All you do is at the target. The scope matches the image with the image on your retina. The barrel will find the target on its own.
Well, Mr. Intuition... When the neighbors report screaming and we hear nothing but silence, what does that lead you to believe?
I guess it's simple, huh? They're either gone... or dead.
Or someone has a nitrogenizer.
A what?
Now what?
History's proven that where there's a nitrogenizer, there's a 12legged signazoid. They use it to make our food digestible for their systems.
A signazoid's eleven thousand pounds. I think we'd know if held left.
Then wouldn't we also know if he's here?
Hold it.
He's a slimy little slithering scumwad is what he is.
There's gotta be a hundred pawn shops in downtown Philadelphia. I take it there's a reason we're going to this one.
There's a god damn good reason.
Something's wrong here.
Gee. You really think?
Jeebs is eager to have me deport him. But would rather kill himself than go downtown. Why?
I dunno. Why did that family need all their luggage for a dinner?.
Why did Mikey leave Nazca?
And what's this ... ?
What?
Looks like a train ticket.
Where to?
What's going on, Kay?
I don't want to rattle you, but Dee was here for the War of the Worlds.
The radio show?
No. The aliens organized, all of them, and tried a coup. They made it seem like a radio show afterwards.
You think that's what'shappening?
I think that's what's happening...
Ernie Goose? Cynthia?
That's the Loch Ness Monster. And... Kay that's... 444Eyes?
Jesus...
Get back in the car!
Jesus Christ...
We're rising.
Where's it coming? Where's he landing?
The Pentagon.
"Perhaps we shoulld take a lesson from our dinosaurs..."
I dunno, man. Maybe we should.
Oh, yeah? Fill us in, why don't you.
What if he's telling the truth?
You know something? I actually never think of that. I gotta get some coffee.
Kay
Hang on. There's gotta be something on this guy. Did you contact the Alliance? Do they have anything?
He's here to help!?
Yes. Well, in his own mind, yeah. What if, from his point of view, he is?
How does that help me?
Well... if you think about it, then it would mean that maybe everything he's saying is true.
Great. Fine. Listen, why don't we call the pentagon, maybe they'll take you back with the new age well wishers. I'll stay here and go extinct with the dinosaurs.
Kay. All I'm saying
I know what you're saying. And I'm telling you I don't trust him
I know you don't trust him. You don't trust anybody
Cause I've been doing this thirty years and if I don't know when something doesn't feel right by now
That's my point. For thirty years you've been looking through things and under things and behind things. Well what I'm saying is maybe this is a time where you should look right at things. He said our enemy in already here. Well maybe it is. Maybe our enemy is, literally, already here.
What are you doing?
Everything left the planet, right? Except one thing. That little insect the one we found in Sudbury. Did it leave when everything else left?
Since how long?
Since as long as we've been keeping records...
Maybe they didn't get here. Maybe they've been here.
For how long?
We saw it in the office. It went from this big... to big... in a day.
Well, if the bugs have hatched, and they're not here... then where are they?
It's marble.
All of it?
Would you call this a code 100?
I'd double it and add 20.
I'm going to try and cut him off at the hotel. You guys get to the Memorial. Keep this stuff hidden. The last thing we need is some overzealous Secret Service twirp to...
Do his job.
Right. Oh, and here.
Wow... this one's cool. And it looks just like a shotgun.
Actually, it is a shotgun. Hold onto it
in case I need it?
In case I need it.
Do IT! SHOOT HIM!
Kay!?
You were saying?
Getting eaten!? That was your plan!?
After I got the shit beat out of me!
And I almost got digested. It goes with the job.
You coulda told me what you were doing.
There wasn't time, sport!
Who's she gonna tell, anyway? She only hangs out with dead people.
Not her. Me. They're beautiful, aren't they? The stars. I never just look anymore and they're beautiful.
Kay, you're scaring your partner.
I haven't been training a partner  I've been training a replacement.
Oh no, I can't do this job by myself.
We'll take it from here.
What? Who the hell are you?
INS, Washington. Special services.
Vayanse. You others, go on.
Sir
Pasen alfurgon v larguense de aqui! Take the van and go.
Sir, you can't just
DON'T "SIR" ME YOU HAVE NO IDEA WHO YOU'RE DEALING WITH.
This is a neurelyser. it was a gift from some friends from out of town. I need you to look at it. This red eye here isolates and measures the nature of the electronic impulses currently in your brain. More specifically, the ones for memory, which it will then block. I said I need you to look right here.
Why? What are you gonna do?
Actually that's a very good question. The answer if You'll Just look at this Part is here.
Underground gas vein. Next time, be more careful when you shoot off your guns.
What?
You heard me. You two, especially.
Which do you have your money on, Dee?
I'd go with number three.
Three, huh? Really? Cause a cup of coffee says we're talking about... number... four? Huh? No?
Mikey. Hold it, Mikey I want you to talk to me. Mikey. I'm telling you.. don't make me... Mikey Gimme the 140.
Oh. Shit. it's in the car
What? I thought you just
Little more burn on the perimeterthey weren't roasting smores here. Dig out this hole a little. Cmon, I know it's late, but the sooner we get it right, the sooner we'll all be home.
Kay, I'm sorry...
Don't worry about it. FourEyes'll run a track on him. We'll get that son of a... whatever the hell he's the son of.
Kay, listen, I dunno what got into
Don't worry about it. It's been a long night. Speaking of which you owe me a cup of coffee, remember?
I wasn't scared...
Oh yeah? The hell you weren't. Little pither just out of school...
Grab the coffee, will ya? I told Zed I'd give him a buzz.
Listen do me a favor don't mention the 140 thing
Don't worry about it.
Helluva night, isn't it?
Yup. Sure is.
'Hell, I may as well do something useful.
Dee, you've been useful for 50 years. We're clueless, you're tired. Why don't you go home and get some rest.
Home? You gotta be kidding me. Black?
Dee. God damn it. I told you to go home.
Kay...
Sorry, Cowan, I found out literally just before the ceremony.' Apparently you're to report for further review.
Further... what are you talking about, air? That makes no sense I hold three cadet class records
Actually, it didn't come from me.
Bull... loney Sir. I'm sorry. Sir, I'm sorry. Sir. I just, I find it hard to believe that it didn't come from you. I mean, everything here comes from you.
Well this didn't.
Then where did it ? Sir. Forgive me, but it makes no sense. worked my ass off to grad
Look. I don't know why. I could guess, however. Maybe it's your attitude. Or that you're not even close to a team player. Or that you always seen to think you know more than your supervisors.
Actually, sir
Cowan. Do you ever think that maybe, just maybe, other people might be right and you might be wrong?
All the time, sir.
You do?
Yes, air. But I'm usually wrong. Sir.
... think that maybe my supervisors referred me here because of certain issues which I assure you I have spent a good deal of time working very hard to correct
Your supervisors have no idea why you're here.
They don't?
They don't. Now, son. If you get the job, you're going to be working with some very particular people who like to do things in some very particular ways. Here's a little piece of advice: Don't use this so much.
What's so funny, cadet Cowan?
I... I don't know, air. This guy. Mr. "Best of the best of the best... " I don't know. It's just still find it a little... humorous. I'm sorry. Sir.
Well... you know, when you say "normal," what, exactly...
For instance... It says here you lost your parents at 15, and, since then...
Sir. I thought those records were sealed.
We're the government, Cowan.
You think we're nuts.
No it makes sense. Cause I gotta tell ya, when I was in third grade they told me I was crazy cause I swore that our teacher was from, like, Venus or something.
Mrs. Edelson?
Only the damn guy won't know it.
What happens if I say no?
From now on, you'll respond only to the name "Jay." You'll dress in appropriate attire specially sanctioned by the INS Special Services. You're not to stand out in any way. Understand?
Yes, sir.
Everybody, listen up: we've had a tremendous amount of movement lately. Be aware. Be safe. Have a good day. Oh, uh... Cowan?
Yes, air?  OOOMPH.
Hell of an assistant, isn't he? Damn guy moves so fast, he actually gets there before you even ask for him.
Sorta literally gets ahead of himself.
Hang on.  And this is the good part; when you're fully ordained, he'll come when you call him, too. Dave.
So... wait. You just asked... but he goes so fast, he actually brought what you asked for before you asked for it.
His physics are a little different than ours. Don't worry
It'll make sense later?
No. But You'll get used to it. Welcome to the Men in Black.
The hell happened?
Hesitated, sir.
I'm not talking about that. I'm talking about your choice of targets.
You shot an eight year old girl.
Uh... yes. Apparently I did, air.
The hell were you thinking?
Well, I dunno. I mean, when you looked at all the other options... it just seemed sorta obvious.
Obvious? Why don't you and I have a little talk about the obvious... outside.
Sir, before you boot me, I just want to explain. I mean, okay, you got a goatguy with a hook for a head...
Cowan
Wait. Uh sir. Please. Anyway. Hookheadguy. I'm thinking "how can he think with a hook for a head?" Answer: that's not his head. Then I think
Cowan
of course not, cause his head is that thing way on the other side of the road, cause, if you looked at it, the entire sidewalk full of stuff was actually ONE GUY and
Cowan will you shut your god damed mouth?
Yes. That's true. Actually, at this point, I just want A job. Wait. What do you mean... yet?
It means I know you think you got a beat on things. But trust me, you don't. You don't even have an inkling of a hint of a clue as to what's really going on in the world. And if you want to find out even a little, you'll shut up and come with me. And if you don't, fine. Go with them. Cause I'm not interested in breaking in another little hotshot only to have him wig or die on me just when I'm starting to count on him. So forgive me if you don't exactly hear me ringing little bells and whistling welcome aboard, but this isn't the Love Boat. And I'm not Captain Fucking Stubing. Now I'm sorry. But this has been one long, bad day.
So... this door. It's... not an exit... ?
It's not even a fucking door.
...touch that.
What the hell...
Kids' game a couple galaxies over.
I guess I lost:
You got smeared.
We have one motto: Peace on Earth.
And Goodwill Toward Man?
No. just peace on Earth.
I gotta be honest about something.
Once I thought the biggest thing I'll ever do was guard the president.
Oh, you'll still, be guarding him.
It's easy. You work your way up the secret service, one day stand with the President, meet the most important people on the planet, fulfill your dreams, live happily ever after.
And if I say yes?
Lose your name and identity, work endless hours an behalf people who don't know you exist, and abandon any hope that you might one day feel even the slightest bit sure of your place in the universe.
EXCUSE ME
Please don't go.
You promised to come for tea yesterday. I waited for so long.
I'm sorry. I haven't even got any cigarettes left!
I'll make some for you! You will come today?
Perhaps.
Please say you will. The days are so very long and lonely without you. Please . . .
All right, I'll be there.
Thank you.
You'll tell me some of the things I want to know, won't you? You'll tell me who runs this place. And why we were kidnapped. And what they're going to do with us!
It would serve you right if you were left behind.
How could I know that a war was going to break out right over my head! Right over my head. Oh, my word! I tell you, those Chinese were pouncing on me from every direction. I had to get into these ridiculous clothes in order to escape.
Couldn't you arrange to make a little less noise?
I tell you, we're going west, and Shanghai is east of here!
Be quiet! Fenner's the best pilot in China. He knows what he's doing.
It's Fenner.
What do you want him to do?
I don't know. I'm a paleontologist, not a Foreign Secretary.
What is it?
Mountain grass. It's good, too. Here, have some. I've read of people lasting thirty days on this stuff.
Why, he's speaking English.
English!
Now that dinner is over, if you'll excuse us, we're very anxious to discuss ways and means of getting back home.
The first thing we want to do is to cable the Foreign Office. All of England is waiting to hear about my brother. There's a cruiser at Shanghai ready to take him back.
That's what I mean  mysterious. Mr. Conway, I don't like that man. He's too vague.
We didn't get much information out of him, did we Bob?
How about you? Do you want to go?
Go? Where?
Home. Away from here. I've got porters to take us back.
Oh, my dear boy, I'm sorry. That's impossible. Why, I have my classes all started.
I don't care what you've got started. Do you want to go?
Well  no  I think I'd better wait. Yes, yes. I will. I'll wait.
You'll wait till you rot!
Yes. Barney!
Oh, please. I hope you're not going to run away this time.
My name's Sondra.
hope you'll forgive me for
You know, each time I see you, I hear that music. What is it?
Oh, you mean my pigeons.
Was this your idea?
Yes. Hold this pigeon.
You suggested my being brought here, didn't you? What gave you the idea I'd fit in?
That was easy. I read your books.
Oh, you've read my books. You do more things! What have my books got to do with it?
I saw a man whose life was empty.
A man whose life was empty!
Oh, I know. It was full of this and full of that. But you were accomplishing nothing. You were going nowhere, and you knew it.
As a matter of fact, all I saw was a little boy whistling in the dark.
A little boy whistling in the dark!? Do you realize that there is a British cruiser waiting at Shanghai, smoke pouring out of its funnels, tugging at its moorings, waiting to take Mr. Conway back to London? Do you know that at this minute there are headlines shrieking all over the world the news that Conway is missing? Does that look like a man whose life is empty?
Yes.
You're absolutely right. And I had to come all the way to a pigeon house in ShangriLa to find the only other person in the world who knew it. May I congratulate you?
I really only brought you here to show you my pigeons!
Don't worry about the pigeons. From now on, you can put flutes on my tail and bells on my feet!
There are so many questions I'd like to ask you, I hardly know where to begin.
I'll help you. To begin with, you'd like to know what I'm doing here. Whether I was born here.
Thank you.
Well, I was almost born here. It took place in that wild country beyond the pass. My father and mother were in a party of explorers who got lost and wandered around for a year. When Chang found us, only Father and I were alive. But he was too weak to climb the pass. He died on the way. I was brought up here by Father Perrault himself.
Father Perrault! I envy you. I talked to him last night.
Yes, I know.
Father Perrault. Of course I can't quite get used to this age thing.
I'm thirty.
Oh, you're going to make life very simple.
What is?
All of it. Father Perrault and his magnificent history. This place, hidden away from the rest of the world, with its glorious concepts, and now you come along and confuse me entirely.
I'm sorry. I thought I was to be the light. But why do I confuse you? Am I so strange?
On the contrary, you're not strange. And that in itself is confusing. I have the same idea about Shangri La. The sense that I've been here before, that I belong here.
I'm so glad.
I can't quite explain it, but everything is somehow familiar. The very air that I breathe. The Lamasery, with its feet rooted in the good earth of this fertile valley, while its head explores the eternal. All the beautiful things I see, these cherry blossoms, you  all somehow familiar. I've been kidnapped and brought here against my will. A crime, a great crime, yet I accept it amiably, with the same warm amiability one tolerates only from a very dear and close friend. Why? Can you tell me why?
Perhaps because you've always been a part of ShangriLa without knowing it.
I wonder.
I'm sure of it. Just as I'm sure there's a wish for ShangriLa in everyone's heart. I have never seen the outside world. But I understand there are millions and millions of people who are supposed to be mean and greedy. Yet I just know that secretly they are all hoping to find a garden spot where there is peace and security, where there's beauty and comfort, where they wouldn't have to be mean and greedy. Oh, I just wish the whole world might come to this valley.
Then it wouldn't be a garden spot for long.
Beautiful! I'm waiting for the bump.
Bump?
When the plane lands at ShangriLa and wakes us all up.
Ouch!
You see, it's not a dream.
You know, sometimes I think that it's the other that's the dream. The outside world. Have you never wanted to go there?
Goodness, no. From what you tell me about it, it certainly doesn't sound very attractive.
It's not so bad, really. Some phases are a little sordid, of course. That's only to be expected.
Why?
Oh, the usual reasons. A world full of people struggling for existence.
Struggling, why?
Well, everybody naturally wants to make a place for himself, accumulate a nest egg, and so on.
Why?
You know, if you keep on asking that, we're not going to get anywhere. And don't ask me why.
I was just going to.
It's the most annoying word in the English language. Did you ever hear a child torture his parent with it? Mother's little darling musn't stick her fingers in the salad bowl. Why? Because it isn't lady like to do that. Why? Because that's what forks are made for, darling.
Why, mother?
Because mother read it in a book somewhere, and if mother's little darling doesn't take her fingers out of the salad bowl this instant, mother's going to wring her little neck.
Would you like to wring my little neck?
I'd love it!
Why?
I've thought about it for years. I knew you'd come. And I knew if you did  you'd never leave. Am I forgiven for sending for you?
Forgiven. You know, when we were on that plane, I was fascinated by the way its shadow followed it. That silly shadow racing along over mountains and valleys, covering ten times the distance of the plane. It was always there to greet us with outstretched arms when we landed. And I've been thinking that somehow you're that plane, and I'm that silly shadow. That all my life I've been rushing up and down hills, leaping rivers, crashing over obstacles, never dreaming that one day that beautiful thing in flight would land on this earth and into my arms.
Where did you come from?
I'm Alexander P. Lovett, sir.
Why aren't you registered through our office?
Where were you hiding?
Hiding? Oh, no. Hunting  I was in the interior  hunting fossils. This morning I looked up suddenly
I know  and a war broke out right over your head.
No. That's not possible! If we had landed, we all would have been awakened.
Of course. We never left the air. I know  I didn't sleep the whole night long.
That fellow got on at Baskul.
What's he doing? Where's he taking us? He may be a maniac for all we know.
Good.
What if he refuses?
We'll smash his face in. That's what we'll do.
Brilliant! Can anyone here fly a plane?
I guess we're in for it.
In for what?
I don't know. He must have had some purpose in taking the plane away from Fenner. When he lands, we'll find out.
You mean to tell me you're not going to do anything until we land?
What do you suggest?
Why, you  you Look here  he may dash us to pieces!
It might afford you a great deal of relief. Now gentlemen, I'm going back to sleep. Oh, and I was having such a peaceful dream. As soon as he lands, let me know.
Imagine having all that fuel there, waiting for us! George, something tells me our journey is just beginning.
Where are we going? Huh?
Huh? I give it up. But this not knowing where you're going is exciting anyway.
Well, Mr. Conway, for a man who is supposed to be a leader, your do nothing attitude is very disappointing.
At the mercy of a mad pilot.
We'd be eternally grateful if you
Bob! I think I hear motors!
Colonel, wait a minute, they may be here now! Say George, get down on that field and guide those planes in when they get here.
Yes.
And be sure that none of the natives get in.
Yes.
Hello? Colonel?
The power house  they've blown it up! The planes can't land without lights.
Come on! We'll burn the hangar. That will make light for them!
All right, go ahead! We go on to the next plane. Bring out any people that are left.
Right, Bob.
Bob, these are all that are left.
Come on! Quick! This way.
The next time you're in wild country like this, keep in touch with the British Consul.
Aha  very good, Freshie.[3] Very good. You'd better put his name on the list and make out a report later.
Just what I needed too.
You?
Just this once, Bob. I feel like celebrating. Just think of it, Bob  a cruiser sent to Shanghai just to take you back to England. You know what it means. Here you are. Don't bother about those cables now. I want you to drink with me. Gentlemen, I give you Robert Conway  England's new Foreign Secretary.
Hurray!
How I'm going to bask in reflected glory! People are going to point to me and say, "There goes George Conway  brother of the Foreign Secretary."
Don't talk nonsense. Give me the bottle.
Hello, Freshie. Did you make that report out yet?
Yes, Bob.
Did you say we saved ninety white people?
Yes.
Hurray for us. Did you say that we left ten thousand natives down there to be annihilated? No, you wouldn't say that. They don't count.
You'd better try to get some sleep, Bob.
Just you wait until I'm Foreign Secretary. Can't you just see me, Freshie, with all those other shrewd, little Foreign Secretaries? You see, the trick is to see who can outtalk the other. Everybody wants something for nothing, and if you can't get it with smooth talk, you send an army in. I'm going to fool them, Freshie. I'm not going to have an army. I'm going to disband mine. I'm going to sink my battleships  I'm going to destroy every piece of warcraft. Then when the enemy approaches we'll say, "Come in, gentlemen  what can we do for you?" So then the poor enemy soldiers will stop and think. And what will they think, Freshie? They'll think to themselves  "Something's wrong here. We've been duped. This is not according to form. These people seem to be quite friendly, and why should we shoot them?" Then they'll lay down their arms. You see how simple the whole thing is? Centuries of tradition kicked right in the pants and I'll be slapped straight into the nearest insane asylum.
Don't worry, George. Nothing's going to happen. I'll fall right into line. I'll be the good little boy that everybody wants me to be. I'll be the best little Foreign Secretary we ever had, just because I haven't the nerve to be anything else.
Do try to sleep, Bob.
Huh? Oh, sure, Freshie. Good thing, sleep.
Oh, stop it!
The bloke up there looks a Chinese, or a Mongolian, or something.
George, what are you going to do?
I'm going to drag him out and force him to tell us what his game is.
What are these people?
I don't know. I can't get the dialect.
Oh George, come on.
It's not knowing that's so awful, Bob. Not knowing where you're going, or why, or what's waiting when you get there.
What is it? Has he fainted?
It looks like it. Smell those fumes?
He's dead.
Dead?
What is it?
See that spot?
Yes.
That's where we were this morning. He had it marked. Right on the border of Tibet. Here's where civilization ends. We must be a thousand miles beyond it  just a blank on the map.
What's it mean?
It means we're in unexplored country  country nobody ever reached.
Hello, George. Cigarette?
Thanks. I suppose all this comes under the heading of adventure.
We've had plenty of it the last few days.
It's far from over, from what I can see. This place gives me the creeps, hidden away like this  no contact with civilization. Bob, you don't seem concerned at all.
Oh, I'm feeling far too peaceful to be concerned about anything. I think I'm going to like it here.
You talk as though you intend on staying.
Something happened to me, when we arrived here, George, that  well  did you ever go to a totally strange place, and feel certain that you've been there before?
What are you talking about?
I don't know.
You're a strange bird. No wonder Gainsford calls you the man who always wanted to see what was on the other side of the hill.
Don't you ever want to see what's on the other side of the hill?
What could there be except just another hill? In any event, I'm not curious. At the moment, it seems to me we should be concerned about getting home. I'd give anything to be in London right now.
Of course you would. If ever we get out of this place, the thing for you to do is to take that job with Helen's father.
What do you mean if we should get out?
Did I say "if"?
That's what you said.
Well  I mean
What's on your mind, Bob? You talk as though we're going to have trouble getting out of here.
George, I've been putting things together. Do you notice the resemblance between those natives and the pilot? And why did those clothes materialize so conveniently when they met us at the plane? Chang himself just said that they never venture beyond that point. What brought them there? Unless it was to meet us?
Chang's first question was about the pilot.
Uhhuh.
There must be some connection between the plane and this place. They must have deliberately brought us here. Why, Bob? What reason could they have for doing a thing like that?
That's what's on the other side of the hill.
Well  I heard that if you want a man's wife, she's yours, if he's got any manners.
Nothing about the porters yet?
Porters?
Good heavens, Bob, we've been here two weeks and we haven't found out a thing.
Well, we haven't been murdered in our beds yet, George, have we?
I'm afraid the porters are just a myth. I guess we never will know why we're here, or how long we're going to be held prisoners.
Shhh!
George, what do you think you're doing?
Let me go, Bob!
George, come back!
Chang! Chang! Chang!
Let me up! Let me up!
All right. Sorry, George.
What about the porters?
Porters?
Didn't you find out anything about the porters?
Why  I'm sorry  but I
For heaven's sake, Bob, what's the matter with you? You went out there for the purpose of
George. George  do you mind? I'm sorry, but I can't talk about it tonight.
George  you're behaving like a child. You haven't opened your mouth in two weeks.
I don't see that there's anything to say.
I said we're getting out of here. Back to civilization. I made a deal with the porters. They brought in a load of books or something, and they're leaving tomorrow at dawn. They're waiting for us five miles outside the valley. Come on, get your things together. Where's your top coat?
You can't leave, George.
Why not? What's going to stop me?
You mustn't. You've got to stay here now.
Stay here?! What's the matter with you, Bob? You've been acting strangely ever since we came here. I've never seen you like this. Why can't we leave? What's stopping us?
Something grand and beautiful, George. Something I've been searching for all my life. The answer to the confusion and bewilderment of a lifetime. I've found it, George, and I can't leave it. You mustn't either.
I don't know what you're talking about. You're carrying around a secret that seems to be eating you up. If you'll only tell me about it.
I will, George. I want to tell you. I'll burst with it if I don't. It's weird and fantastical and sometimes unbelievable, but so beautiful! Well, as you know, we were kidnapped and brought here . . .
Well, I  I really don't know what to say. Except that you must be completely mad.
So you think I'm mad?
What else can I think after a tale like that? Good heavens, Bob, things like that don't happen today. We're living in the twentieth century.
So you think it's all nonsense, huh?
I think you've been hypnotized by a lot of loosebrained fanatics. Why, I wouldn't believe it if I heard it in an English monastery. Why should I swallow it here in Tibet? How do you know the things they told you are true? Did they show you any proof?
I don't need any proof.
I knew there was a reason I hated this place. I'd give half my life to fly over it with a load of bombs just for what they've done to you. How do you know the things they told you are true? Did they show you any proof? All this talk about the Lamas being hundreds of years old. How do you know? Did you see their birth certificates? I can't believe it, Bob. A bunch of decrepit old men sit around and dream about reforming the world. And you, Bob Conway  twofeeton theground Conway  want to join them. It's horrible.
Is that all my story meant to you?
What else could it mean to me? It's obviously a lot of bunk.
Then you'd better go, George. This is no place for you.
It's no place for you, Bob. Think of what's waiting for you. Do you want to stay here until you're half dead? Until your mind starts corroding like the rest of them?
Please, George. I don't want to talk about it anymore.
You've got to talk about it. What about me? You said they stole that plane to bring you here. I didn't want to come. You owe me some responsibility.
I'm tired of owing you things. You're free to go. Go ahead.
It's that girl  that girl has twisted and turned
Enough! Never mind the girl! Well, why don't you go?
Look here, Bob, Ever since I can remember, you've looked after me. Now I think you're the one that needs looking after. I'm your brother, Bob. If there's something wrong with you, let me help you.
Oh, George . . .
Besides, I  I don't feel like making that trip alone, Bob.
George, you couldn't possibly stay here, could you?
I'd go mad!
George, I may be wrong, I may be a maniac. But I believe in this, and I'm not going to lose it. You know how much I want to help you, but this is bigger, stronger if you like than brotherly love. I'm sorry, George. I'm staying.
Well, I can't think of anything more to say. Goodbye, Bob.
George, are you sure of the porters? About their taking care of you, I mean?
Oh yes. It's all set. Maria made the arrangements.
Maria?
Yes, the little Russian girl.
What's she got to do with it?
She's going with me.
You can't take her away from here!
Why not?
Because you can't. Do you know what will happen to her if she leaves ShangriLa? She's a fragile thing that can only live where fragile things are loved. Take her out of this valley and she'll fade away like an echo.
What do you mean  "fade away like an echo"?
She came here in 1888!
This would be funny  if it wasn't so pathetic. Why, she isn't a day over twenty!
You're wrong, George.
I'm not wrong. She told me so. Besides, she wouldn't have to tell me. I'd know anyway. I found out a lot of things last night. I'm not ashamed of it either. It's probably one of the few decent things that's ever happened in this hellish place.
So everyone is serenely happy in ShangriLa? Nobody would ever think of leaving? It's all just so much rot! She's pleaded with me ever since I came here to take her away from this awful place. She's cried in my arms for hours, for fear I'd leave her behind. And what's more, she's made two trips to the plateau to bribe the porters  for me!
I don't believe it! I don't believe a word of it!
All right. I'll prove it to you! You believe everything they've told you  without proof! I'll prove my story!
She was kidnapped and brought here two years ago just as we were, Bob.
I don't believe it! I can't believe it. She's lying. You're lying. You're lying! Every word you've been saying is a lie! Come on, say it!
You say the porters are waiting for us?
Yes.
The clothes?
Yes, everything!
What about the others?
I've already asked them. They're afraid to make the trip. We'll have to send an expedition back after them.
Come on! We're wasting time!
Lucky thing for me you snapped out of it, too. You saved my life. I never could have made it alone.
What was that?
was saying
Can't you shut up? Must you go on babbling like an idiot?
Bob, can't you get them to wait for us? They're leaving us farther behind every day.
There's nothing that would suit them better than to lose us, but we must go on. Come on.
Target practice again! One of these days they're going to hit us.
As long as they keep on aiming at us, we're safe. Come now, child.
Yes, of course, your brother is a problem. It was to be expected.
I knew you'd understand. That's why I came to you for help.
You must not look to me for help. Your brother is no longer my problem. He is now your problem, Conway.
Mine?
Because, my son, I am placing in your hands the future and destiny of ShangriLa. For I am going to die.
I have waited for you, my son, for a long time. I have sat in this room and seen the faces of newcomers. I have looked into their eyes and heard their voices  always in hope that I might find you . My friend, it is not an arduous task that I bequeath, for our order knows only silken bonds. To be gentle and patient, to care for the riches of the mind, to preside in wisdom, while the storm rages without.
Do you think this will come in my time?
Sit here, near me. I am an old man and can do no one any harm.
Are you the High Lama?
Yes.
I trust you have been comfortable at ShangriLa, since your arrival.
Personally, I've enjoyed your community very much. But my friends do not care for this mystery. They are determined to leave as soon as
It's astonishing  and incredible, but
What is it, my son?
You're the man Chang told me about! You're the first  who  two hundred years ago you're still alive, Father Perrault!
Sit down, my son. You may not know it, but I've been an admirer of yours for a great many years.
That Conway seemed to belong here. In fact, it was suggested that someone be sent to bring him here.
That I be brought here? Who had that brilliant idea?
Sondra Bizet.
Oh, the girl at the piano?
Yes. She has read your books and has a profound admiration for you, as have we all.
Of course I have suspected that our being here is no accident. Furthermore, I have a feeling that we're never supposed to leave. But that, for the moment, doesn't concern me greatly. I'll meet that when it comes. What particularly interests me at present is, why was I brought here? What possible use can I be to an already thriving community?
We need men like you here, to be sure that our community will continue to thrive. In return for which, ShangriLa has much to give you. You are still, by the world's standards, a youngish man. Yet in the normal course of existence, you can expect twenty or thirty years of gradually diminishing activity. Here, however, in Shangri La, by our standards your life has just begun, and may go on and on.
But to be candid, Father, a prolonged future doesn't excite me. It would have to have a point. I've sometimes doubted whether life itself has any. And if that is so, then long life must be even more pointless. No, I'd need a much more definite reason for going on and on.
We have reason. It is the entire meaning and purpose of ShangriLa. It came to me in a vision, long, long, ago. I saw all the nations strengthening, not in wisdom, but in the vulgar passions and the will to destroy. I saw their machine power multiply until a single weaponed man might match a whole army. I foresaw a time when man, exulting in the technique of murder, would rage so hotly over the world that every book, every treasure, would be doomed to destruction. This vision was so vivid and so moving that I determined to gather together all the things of beauty and culture that I could and preserve them here against the doom toward which the world is rushing. Look at the world today! Is there anything more pitiful? What madness there is, what blindness, what unintelligent leadership! A scurrying mass of bewildered humanity crashing headlong against each other, propelled by an orgy of greed and brutality. The time must come, my friend, when this orgy will spend itself, when brutality and the lust for power must perish by its own sword. Against that time is why I avoided death and am here, and why you were brought here. For when that day comes, the world must begin to look for a new life. And it is our hope that they may find it here. For here we shall be with their books and their music and a way of life based on one simple rule: Be Kind. When that day comes, it is our hope that the brotherly love of ShangriLa will spread throughout the world. Yes, my son, when the strong have devoured each other, the Christian ethic may at last be fulfilled, and the meek shall inherit the earth.
It's all your fault! It was all arranged until he spoke to you! Why can't you leave us alone?
Do you mean to tell me you want to leave ShangriLa?
I'll die if I have to stay here another minute! I've waited a long time for this chance to go, and you're not going to stop me now. If I have to, I'll go alone. It was I who bribed the porters. If it weren't for me, you'd never get out!
I thought the porters had instructions from the High Lama not to take anyone.
The High Lama? Who pays any attention to him? The porters laugh at the High Lama. All they want to know is how much gold he will give them. Well, I gave them more gold. I've been stealing it for a year. I'd do anything to get out of this place. To get away from that High Lama  the one who calls himself Father Perrault! Why, he's been insane for years!
Father Perrault is dead.
He's dead? That's fine. You won't see me shedding any tears over him! Oh George, you must take me with you!
Aren't you afraid to leave? You don't want to look like an old woman, do you?
Old woman? Chang told you that, didn't he?
Yes.
I thought so! He tells everyone I'm old. He wants them to stay away from me. He can't stand it when anyone comes near. He's punished me for every minute I've spent with George. If it weren't for him, I would have been out of here long ago, but he always stops me. Six months ago, I tried to escape and he locked me in a dark room. I nearly went crazy. Look at me, Mr. Conway, do I look like an old woman? Is this the skin of an old woman? Look into my eyes and see if these are the eyes of an old woman?
You're lying, aren't you?
No, Mr. Conway, I'm not lying. What reason could I have for lying? The chances are that we'll never come out of that horrible trip alive, but I'd rather die out there in a snowstorm and be buried alive, than to stay here one more minute now.
Are you taking me?
Yes, of course. Certainly. Come on!
No, I can't! I can't! You've got to let me rest! You've got to let me rest!
Hey!
We were just going to bury him when you came along.
Pardon me
In that event, we better make arrangements to get some porters immediately. Some means to get us back to civilization.
Are you so certain you are away from it?
As far away as I ever want to be.
Oh, dear.
Oh, yes. There is a tribe of porters some five hundred miles from here. That is our only contact with the outside world. Every now and again, depending upon favorable weather of course, they make the journey.
How can we get in touch with them?
In that respect, you are exceedingly fortunate. We are expecting a shipment from them almost any time now
The High Lama is the only one from whom any information can come.
Don't believe him, Bob. He's just trying to get out.
A fine trick! Smart, aren't you? What a pack of lies you told us about those porters! Of course the minute they arrive, we can make arrangements to leave. If they take us. But you knew very well you'd tell them not to!
Now, my dear boy. You shouldn't
You've been lying to us ever since we got here! Apparently it's worked with some people. Perhaps it's because they lack the courage to do anything about it. But not me, Chang. You're up against the wrong man. I'll get out of here, if I have to blow this fantastic place into the valley! I'll get outporters or no porters!
Of course, the porters will be very well paid  that is, within reason.
I'm afraid that wouldn't help. You see, we have no porters here.
No porters here!!
No.
What exactly do you mean by "almost any time now"?
Well, we've been expecting this particular shipment for the past two years.
You know, it's very, very strange, but when you saw me in the corridor, I was actually on my way to you. I bring the most amazing news. The High Lama wishes to see you, Mr. Conway.
The High Lama! Who in blazes is he?!
Amazing, Mr. Chang. This place is amazing! And that marble quarry in the valley is simply magnificent. Oh, I've looked around. I've seen everything. Your woodworkers and your clothweavers  they all seem so very, very happy.
Yes.
You may not know it, Mr. Chang, but right here you have Utopia.[15]
You've very kind Mr. Lovett.
I don't mean it in that sense. I only give credit where credit is due. Er, Mr. Chang, I'm very anxious to have you realize that I never for a moment believed that ridiculous kidnapping story.
Oh, I'm so glad.
Simply preposterous. Do you know what I did last night? Last night, Mr. Chang, I held a sort of a self inventory. I said to myself last night, Mr. Chang, I said, "Lovey" Mr. Lovett! "Mr. Lovett," I said, "you are an ungrateful fool . . . "
Why, no.
"Ungrateful fool . . . !" Those were my very words to myself last night. "Here are these people in ShangriLa doing everything in their power to make our stay comfortable and happy and I haven't done one single thing to show my appreciation."
Now, what would you like to do?
Well, Mr. Chang, I thought, with your permission of course, and while I'm waiting for these porters, I would like to organize classes for those children in the valley and teach them something practical and something useful. Geology.
Splendid!
Isn't it? Isn't it! You know I was a professor for twenty years?  and a very good one.
I'm sure you were. When would you like to start?
Oh, immediately.
Then it's done.
Oh, thank you. Thank you!
Thank you.
What do you want?
I've offered you some warm broth. I thought perhaps
You get out of here! If any of you men think you can come busting in here
Please calm yourself. You'll soon be well if you do.
I don't need any advice from you! Get me a doctor!
I'm sorry, but we have no doctors here.
No doctors? That's fine. That's just fine.
Please let me help you.
Sure, you can help me! You can help me jump over that cliff! I've been looking and looking at the bottom of that mountain, but I haven't got the nerve to jump!
You shouldn't be looking at the bottom of the mountain. Why don't you try looking up at the top sometimes?
Don't preach that cheap, second hand stuff to me! Go on, beat it. Beat it!
And mine's Conway.
How do you do?
You've no idea, sir, how unexpected and very welcome you are. My friends and I  and the lady in the plane  left Baskul night before last for Shanghai, but we suddenly found ourselves traveling in the opposite direction
Where is your mad pilot?
He must have had a heart attack, or perhaps the fumes. When the plane landed he was dead.
You will need suitable clothes for the journey. It is not particularly far, but quite difficult.
Thank you.
And the wine  excellent.
I'm glad you like it. It's made right here in the valley.
It's three thousand feet, practically straight down to the floor of the valley. The Valley of the Blue Moon, as we call it. There are over two thousand people in the Valley besides those here in ShangriLa.
Who and what is ShangriLa? You?
Goodness, no!
So there are others?
Oh, yes.
Who, for instance?
In time you will meet them all.
For a man who talks a great deal, it's amazing how unenlightening you can be.
There are some things, my dear Conway, I deeply regret I may not discuss.
You know, that's the fourth time you've said that today. You should have a record made of it.
Shall we go inside? I should so like to show you some of our rare treasures.
By the way, what religion do you follow here?
We follow many.
To put it simply, I should say that our general belief was in moderation. We preach the virtue of avoiding excesses of every kind, even including the excess of virtue itself.
That's intelligent.
We find, in the Valley, it makes for better happiness among the natives. We rule with moderate strictness and in return we are satisfied with moderate obedience. As a result, our people are moderately honest and moderately chaste and somewhat more than moderately happy.
How about law and order? You have no soldiers or police?
Oh, good heavens, no!
How do you deal with incorrigibles? Criminals?
Why, we have no crime here. What makes a criminal? Lack, usually. Avariciousness, envy, the desire to possess something owned by another. There can be no crime where there is a sufficiency of everything.
You have no disputes over women?
Only very rarely. You see, it would not be considered good manners to take a woman that another man wanted.
Suppose somebody wanted her so badly that he didn't give a hang if it was good manners or not?
Well, in that event, it would be good manners on the part of the other man to let him have her.
That's very convenient. I think I'd like that.
You'd be surprised, my dear Conway, how a little courtesy all around helps to smooth out the most complicated problems.
But Mr. Chang, all these things  books, instruments, sculpture  do you mean to say they were all brought in over those mountains by porters?
They were.
Well, it must have taken
Centuries.
Centuries! Where did you get the money to pay for all those treasures?
Of course we have no money as you know it. We do not buy or sell or seek personal fortunes because, well, because there is no uncertain future here for which to accumulate it.
That would suit me perfectly. I'm always broke. How did you pay for them?
Our Valley is very rich in a metal called gold, which fortunately for us is valued very highly in the outside world. So we merely . . .
buy and sell?
Buy and  sell? No, no, pardon me, exchange .
I see. Gold for ideas. You know Mr. Chang, there's something so simple and naive about all of this that I suspect there has been a shrewd, guiding intelligence somewhere. Whose idea was it? How did it all start?
That, my dear Conway, is the story of a remarkable man.
Who?
A Belgian priest by the name of Father Perrault, the first European to find this place, and a very great man indeed. He is responsible for everything you see here. He built ShangriLa, taught our natives, and began our collection of art. In fact, ShangriLa is Father Perrault.
When was all this?
Oh, let me see  way back in 1713, I think it was, that Father Perrault stumbled into the Valley, half frozen to death. It was typical of the man that, one leg being frozen, and of course there being no doctors here, he amputated the leg himself.
He amputated his own leg?
Yes. Oddly enough, later, when he had learned to understand their language, the natives told him he could have saved his leg. It would have healed without amputation.
Well, they didn't actually mean that.
Yes, yes. They were very sincere about it too. You see, a perfect body in perfect health is the rule here. They've never known anything different. So what was true for them they thought would naturally be true for anyone else living here.
Well, is it?
Rather astonishingly so, yes. And particularly so in the case of Father Perrault himself. Do you know when he and the natives were finished building ShangriLa, he was 108 years old and still very active, in spite of only having one leg?
108 and still active?
You're startled?
Oh, no. Just a little bowled over, that's all.
Forgive me. I should have told you it is quite common here to live to a very ripe old age. Climate, diet, mountain water, you might say. But we like to believe it is the absence of struggle in the way we live. In your countries, on the other hand, how often do you hear the expression, "He worried himself to death?" or, "This thing or that killed him?"
Very often.
And very true. Your lives are therefore, as a rule, shorter, not so much by natural death as by indirect suicide.
That's all very fine if it works out. A little amazing, of course.
Why, Mr. Conway, you surprise me!
I surprise you? Now that's news.
I mean, your amazement. I could have understood it in any of your companions, but you  who have dreamed and written so much about better worlds. Or is it that you fail to recognize one of your own dreams when you see it?
Mr. Chang, if you don't mind, I think I'll go on being amazed  in moderation, of course.
Then everything is quite all right, isn't it?
One moment. You say the High Lama is the only one who can give us any information?
The only one.
And he can arrange for the porters to take us back?
The High Lama arranges everything, Mr. Conway.
Well, then he's the man I want to see. Will you come along?
Yes. I'm afraid it does.
Shall we have another?
No thanks. Not tonight if you don't mind.
Charming, isn't she?
Yes, charming.
Your brother seems quite fascinated by her.
Why not? She's an attractive young woman.
Young? She arrived here in 1888. She was 20 at the time. She was on her way to join her betrothed  when her carriers lost their way in the mountains. The whole party would have perished but for meeting some of our people.
Amazing! She still doesn't look over 20. When is she likely to grow old in appearance?
Not for years. ShangriLa will keep her youthful indefinitely.
Suppose she should leave it?
Leave ShangriLa! That's not likely. You couldn't drive her out.
No, I mean about her appearance. If she should leave the valley  what would happen?
Oh, she'd quickly revert in her appearance to her actual age.
It's weird. Chang, how old are you?
Age is a limit we impose upon ourselves. You know, each time you Westerners celebrate your birthday, you build another fence around your minds.
You must prevail upon him not to attempt the journey. He could never get through that country alive.
I can't let him go alone. It's suicide!
Cave, eh? Where?
Over by that hill.
Hey  look!
Look, Bob!
There you are! Barnard, you'd better get your things together. We're leaving.
Leaving?
Yes. I've just been talking with the porters. They're going to take us. We've got clothing, food, everything. Come on!
When are you going to start?
Right this very minute! The porters are waiting for us on the plateau. And that Chinaman thought he could stop me. Come along.
I think I'll stick around. I'll leave with the porters on their next trip.
You mean you don't want to go?
Well  I'm
I see. You're afraid of going to jail, eh?
Well, no. You see, I got this plumbing business
All right! If you insist on being an idiot, I'm not going to waste time coaxing you. How about you?
Oh, no  you don't want to go yet, honey. She'll stick around too. Is that right?
I say, will you have a cigarette?
No.
Say, you're an American, aren't you?
Say, listen  will you go and annoy the rest of your playmates? Let me alone!
Hey, what's happened to you?
Nothing. Why?
Why, you look beautiful.
Look, honey. We run the pipes through here, and we connect with the main water line here.
Pipes? Where are you going to get pipes?
Oh, that's a cinch. I'll show them how to cast pipes out of clay.
If you want me to!
Sure  sure. Don't you worry. I'll take care of you.
Charming chap.
Nice puss to meet in a dark alley.
Well, that's that, I guess.
Wonder what's happened to Fenner.
What are we going to do?
Well, there's nothing we can do until the morning.
It's better than freezing to death down below, isn't it?
I'll say.
That's what I say. What do you say to a rubber of bridge? I saw some cards in the other room.
Not for me, thanks. No, I'm too weary.
Hey, hurry up, you slowpokes  I'm starved!
Please! Please! Do not wait for me! I eat so very little.
Yes. Unbosom yourself, Mr. Hyde.[11]
All right, I will! I'll let my hair down! Why not? It can't make any real difference now. Hey Lovey, were you ever chased by the police?
Chalmers Bryant!
Bryant's Utilities  that's me.
Yeah. I though you ran this joint.
Mr. Chang  High Lamas or Low Lamas, do we get the porters?
You see? You get the idea? From this reservoir here I can pipe in the whole works. Oh, I'm going to get a great kick out of this. Of course it's just to keep my hand in, but with the equipment we have here, I can put a plumbing system in for the whole village down there. Can rig it up in no time. Do you realize those poor people are still going to the well for water?
It's unbelievable.
Think of it! In times like these.
Say, what about that gold deal?
Huh?
Gold. You were going to
Oh  that! That can wait. Nobody's going to run off with it. Say, I've got to get busy. I want to show this whole layout to Chang. So long. Don't you take any wooden nickels.
All right.
I beg your pardon, brother. What did you say you were hunting?
Fossils.
Fossils, huh?
I'm a paleontologist.
A what?
A paleontologist.
Oh, I see.
I have here a discovery that will startle the world. It's the vertebrae from the lumbar of a Megatherium,[4] found in Asia.
Well, what do you know about that!
Found in Asia!
Uhhuh.
When I get home I shall probably be knighted for it.
Knighted! You don't say. Do you mind if I take a look at it?
Not at all.
Sorry.
This is the only thing I was able to save when those heathens surrounded me.
Uhhuh.
You see, from this vertebrae I shall be able to reconstruct the entire skeleton.
Wait a minute, you expect to be knighted for finding that soupbone?
It was the vertebrae of a Megatherium  found in Asia.
Yeah, I remember. You said that before.
Sir Henry Derwent was knighted, and he never got beyond the mesozoic era.
Yes, it just shows I don't know why I'm talking to you. I don't know you. Who are you?
Okay, brother.
Don't call me brother.
Okay, sister. No offense. No offense!
Good morning, Lovey.
I beg your pardon.
I say, good morning, Lovey.
Good morning
I didn't care for 'sister' last night, and I don't like 'Lovey' this morning. My name is Lovett  Alexander, P.
I see.
I see.
Well, it's a good morning, anyway.
I'm never conversational before I coffee.
Wait a minute. Is it a good morning? Say, we're supposed to be traveling east, aren't we?
Why, of course. Yes.
Well, it looks to me as if we're traveling west.
That's ridiculous.
Is it?
It certainly is.
Look here
Any child knows how to tell direction. Any child. I don't care where the child is  in the air, on the earth, or in the sea. If you face the rising sun, your right hand is the north, and your left hand is the south
I always get it twisted because I'm lefthanded.
Oh, really?
Yes.
Well, you just reverse it. Your left hand is What difference does it make what 'hand' you are? The north is the north!
Uhhuh. All I know is  the sun rises in the east, and we're going away from it.
Now you're irritating and absurd!
He might have lost his way.
Of course. That's what I told them last night. You can't expect a man to sail around in the dark.[5] During this George has been looking around  he rises.
Yes. And who is he ? How'd he get there?
Do you suppose we stopped someplace during the night and changed pilots?
Left us here to rot. That's what they've done. Heroes of the newspapers!
All right, all right. Keep quiet.
Where are they? Do you see them?
Yes!
Do you think they're cannibals?
Mr. Barnard, I do not like this place. I definitely do not like this place.
Will you stop squawking!
Look at me. Look at what they gave me to wear.
You never looked better in your life. As soon as our clothes are cleaned, they're going to give them back to us, Lovey.
Something tells me this means food. Come on!
I just feel as though I'm being made ready for the executioner.
Yeah? If this be execution, lead me to it.
That's what they do with cattle just before the slaughter. Fatten them.
Uhhuh. You're a scream, Lovey.
Please don't call me Lovey.
Some layout they got here. Did you get a load of the rooms? You couldn't do better at the Ritz.
All the conveniences for the condemned, if you ask me.
Don't mind Lovey. He's got the misery.
Mr. Conway, I don't like this place. I don't like it. It's too mysterious.
How about you Lovey? Come on. Let's you and I play a game of honeymoon bridge.
I'm thinking.
Thinking? What about some double solitaire?
As a matter of fact, I'm very good at double solitaire.
No kidding?
Yes.
Then I'm your man. Come on, Toots.
And say, honey, you look a million per cent better. Wholesome, kind of  and clean. You take a tip from me, and don't you ever put that stuff on your face again. Why, it's like hiding behind a mask.
Ha, ha  who are you to be talking about a mask? What do you mean? You've been wearing a mask ever since we met you.
Have I?
It's very strange, you know. You've never told us anything about yourself. Who are you, anyway? Why don't you take your mask off for once!
Certainly not.
Believe me, it's no fun. When you fellas picked me up at Baskul, they'd been on my tail for a year.
The police?
Uhhuh. Did you ever hear of Chalmers Bryant?
That's too bad. I got a half million shares. My whole foundation! And now look at me!
colossal nerve you have sitting there and talking about it so calmly  you, the swindler of thousands of people
You know, that's what makes the whole thing so funny. A guy like me starts out in life as a plumber  an ordinary, everyday, slewfooted plumber  and by the use of a little brains, mind you, he builds up a gigantic institution, employs thousands of people, becomes a great civic leader. And then the crash comes  and overnight he's the biggest crook the country ever had.
You are a thief, sir, and a swindler, and I, for one, will be only too glad to turn you over to the police when we get back.
Yes.
Sounds like a stall to me.
I don't know why I associate with you, Mr. Barnard  or Mr. Chalmers Bryant  or Mr. Embezzler  or whatever your name may be.
Just call me Barney.
Barney? Why should I? Never! We have nothing in common. Hmmpf, Barney! What effrontery!
Okay, Lovey.
And this trip to the valley. I can't imagine why I'd allow you to drag me down here. Why, we don't know anything about these people. We're not even armed!
They're very nice people  except that they've got horns.
Horns?
Yeah. You know.
Horns? What kind of horns?
Hey Lovey, come here! Lovey, I asked for a glass of wine and look what I got. Come on, sit down.
So that's where you are. I might of known it. No wonder you couldn't hear me.
You were asked to have a glass of wine. Sit down!
And be poisoned out here in the open?
Certainly not!
There you are!
This doesn't obligate me in any way.
then the bears came right into the bedroom and the little baby bear said, "Oh, somebody's been sleeping in my bed." And then the mama bear said, "Oh dear, somebody's been sleeping in my bed!" And then the big papa bear, he roared, "And somebody's been sleeping in my bed!" Well, you have to admit the poor little bears were in a quandary!
I'm going to sleep in my bed. Come on, Lovey!
They were in a quandary, and
Come on, Lovey.
Why? Why 'come on' all the time? What's the matter? Are you going to be a fuss budget all your life? Here, drink it up! Aren't you having any fun? Where was I?
In a quandary.
Oh my, isn't that pretty! What is it?
Plumbing. Everything modern. I'm going to run pipes all through the village
Where's the girl? Miss Stone.
She's remaining in her room. She isn't feeling very well. Now please go on without me. I eat very little.
Well, there's certainly nothing wrong with that meal!
Thank you.
Not even a radio?
It's always been a source of deep regret, but the mountains surrounding us have made reception almost impossible.
What about those men we met this morning?
Yes. Those are our own people. They never venture beyond the point where you were met this morning. It is much too hazardous.
Two years!?
Yes.
Cable from Gainsford.
Oh, read it!
"Leaving today for London with Conway aboard S.S. Manchuria. Conway can tell nothing of his experiences. Is suffering from complete loss of memory. Signed, Gainsford."
All of it?
Yes. Might as well  all of it.
Yes, sir.
I'll dispatch a convoy to meet him.
Conway's gone again! Run out! Listen to this! From Gainsford.
Let me have it. "Aboard the S.S. Manchuria. Last night Conway seemed to recover his memory. Kept talking about Shangri La, telling a fantastic story about a place in Tibet. Insisted upon returning there at once. Locked him in room but he escaped us and jumped ship during night at Singapore. Am leaving ship myself to overtake him, as fearful of his condition. Wrote down details of Conway's story about ShangriLa which I am forwarding. Lord Gainsford."
I missed you.
Yeah?...
Yeah.
What are you guys doin'?
Guess we're goin' over to the "Ten Pin".
You want some company?
Sure.
Why haven't you called me?
Sorry... I...
What's happening to you? What happened to your face?
I don't know.
What do you mean?... You've been acting strange lately... Like the other night.
What night?
Last time I saw you.
I don't remember... What happened that night?
You sure weren't acting like the Pete Dayton I've always known.
Whatiya mean?
You were acting like a different person.
You still care about me?
Sure. Sure I do.
What else about that night?... Did anything happen?
You really don't remember?
No... I told you.
It was weird...
Whatiya mean, Sheila?
I don't want to talk about it...
Sheila?!
No... I really don't want to talk about it.
What do you want?
Nothin'... You want to go for a drive?
I don't know.
Come on... get in.
Why don't you like me?
I do like you, Sheila.
Where'd you come from?
I've been here. You were lookin, right at me.
I was?
Yeah.
I didn't know you cared.
Come on.
Sheila, what is it?... What are you doin' here?
You've been fucking somebody else haven't you?
Sheila...
You fuck me whenever you want... You don't call... Tell me who she is.
Hey... Sheila.
What's the BITCH'S name?!
Look Sheila... I'm sorry...
YOU'RE SORRY!!
Go home, Sheila.
Sheila... Stop...
FUCK YOU!! FUCK YOU!!
I don't think so. Where was it that you think we've met?
At your house. Don't you remember?
No. No, I don't.
We just killed a couple of people...
What?
What's goin' on?
Great question!! In the east... the far east... when a person is sentenced to death... they're sent to a place where they can't escape... never knowing when an executioner will step up behind them and fire a bullet into the back of their head... it could be days... weeks... or even years after the death sentence has been pronounced... This uncertainty adds an exquisite element of torture to the situation, don't you think? It's been a pleasure talking to you.
What happened? Somebody givin' you trouble?
No, it's nothin'... I'm all right.
Because if anybody's givin' you trouble, Pete, I can take care of the problem... like that.
No, no... It's okay, Mr. Eddy.
I mean it, Pete... Like THAT!!
Thanks, Mr. Eddy... whatiya need? Just the regular tuneup?
I want you to ride with me. Somethin' doesn't sound right.
Okay... Lemme clear it with...
It's okay with Arnie... Come on, let's go.
Give that a try.
All right!
Beautiful! Smooth as shit from a duck's ass. Let's take a ride.
Whatever you say, Mr. Eddy.
Sorry about that, Pete, but tailgating is one thing I can't tolerate.
I can see that.
I'll bet you know how many car lengths it takes to stop at... say 45 m.p.h.
Eight, nine car lengths. A hundred and sixtytwo feet.
At sixty?
Fifteen car lengths. About two hundred and seventy feet.
What'd I tell ya.
Thanks, Mr. Eddy.
No... Thank you!... I'll be bringin' the "Caddy" by tomorrow.
You like pornos?
Pornos?
Yeah. Give ya a boner.
No thanks, Mr. Eddy.
Suit yourself, champ.
Okay... Well, I'll see ya then.
You will.
I'm leavin' the Caddy, like I told you. Think you'll get a chance to give her a once over today?
Sure... Sure, Mr. Eddy. You gonna pick it up later, or tomorrow?
If you think you can finish it, I'll be back later today.
It'll be ready.
You're my man, Pete.
How ya doin', Pete?
Okay.
I'm sure you noticed that girl that was with me the other day... Good lookin' blonde? She stayed in the car?...
Her name is Alice. You know I love that girl to death. If I ever found out somebody was makin' out with her, I'd take this... ...and shove it so far up his ass it would come out his mouth... Then you know what?...
What?
I'd pull the trigger and shoot him right between the eyes.
Hello.
Hey, Pete... How ya doin'?
Who is this?
You know who it is.
Mr. Eddy?
Yeah... How ya doin', Pete?
Okay.
You're doin, okay? That's good, Pete.
Look... It's late, Mr. Eddy... I ...
I'm really glad you're doin' okay, Pete.
You sure you're doin' okay? Everything all right?
Yeah.
That's good, Pete. Hey... I want you to talk to a friend of mine.
Did you see that about the guy who chopped up his wife into a million pieces?
How could I miss it? The TV won't quit with that stuff.
They're gonna cook him.
Andy's from Utah. He says there you have a choice... You can die by hanging or by firing squad.
Which would you choose?
Andy would go for this, don't you think?... Firing squad, definitely.
Do they aim for the head or for the heart?
The heart, I guess.
I wouldn't... The brain would know what's going on. Your heart would be ripped open trying to pump blood, blood pouring into the chest cavity. Savage pain, Marian.
You don't mind that I'm not coming tonight?
What are you going to do?
I thought I'd stay home and read.
It's nice to know I can still make you laugh.
I like to laugh, Fred.
That's why I married you.
Wake me up when you get home.
What's that?
A videotape.
Who's it from?
I don't know... There's no return address on the envelope... In fact, there's no address on it.
Does it say anything on the tape?
No, nothing.
It must be from a real estate agent.
Maybe.
Good book, huh?
Huh?... oh, yeah, it is.
Same one you were reading the other night?
What night?
When you didn't come to the club.
Oh. Oh, yeah. No. This is a different one.
I called, you know.
Called? When?
From the club. You didn't answer.
I must have fallen asleep. I was asleep when you got home, wasn't I?
You were asleep when I got home, yes.
I had a dream about you last night...
Yeah?
You were in the house... calling my name... but I couldn't find you.
You're up early.
That dog woke me. I lay there for a while, then decided to get up.
Who the hell owns that dog?
What's that? Another tape?
Yes, I just found it on the step.
Don't you want to watch it?
I guess so.
We've got to call the police.
All right.
So?
Two detectives are coming out.
We will.
Thanks, guys.
What the hell is going on?!
I wish I knew.
What was that?!!!
What?
On the tape! There was something else on the tape.
No, I don't remember anything. it looks like I... but... I don't remember.
Why would anyone do something like this?
Where would you feel safe?
I don't know. Maybe a hotel.
I'll make sure the alarm is set from now on.
But that doesn't solve the problem. Who is doing this? And why?
I thought you were getting me a drink?
Just a minute.
Let's go home.
But...
Now! We're leaving now! I didn't want to come here in the first place.
It was a long time ago... I met him at this place called Moke's... We... became friends... He told me about a job...
What job?
I don't remember... Anyway, Andy's okay...
He's got some fucked up friends.
I told you to stay in the car!
Why? what is it? Why did you make me wait out here?
I thought there might be somebody inside.
Was there?
No... of course not.
We've met before, haven't we?
I don't think so. Where was it that you think we've met?
At your house. Don't you remember?
No, no I don't. Are you sure?
Of course. In fact, I'm there right now.
What do you mean? You're where right now?
At your house.
That's absurd.
Where's Alice?
Alice who?
Something wrong?
My... My head.
Headache, huh? Too much sun, I guess. You want to come in? Still got forty five minutes outside if you want it.
No, no. I want to go in.
What's bothering you, Madison?
The pain is getting worse. I need more aspirin.
I can't give you anymore. I'll talk to the doctor.
What is it?
Aspirin... fly head. I gotta have more aspirin.
The doctor said not to give you anything. You can see him in the morning.
But my head...
That's it.
Let's have a look at the hallway outside the bedroom.
There's no other bedroom?
No... There is, I mean, I use it as a practice room... it's soundproofed.
What's your axe?
Tenor... Tenor saxophone. Do you...
Tone deaf.
Did you use the alarm system since we were here last?
The first night... Not the last two.
WHAT DID YOU SAY?
I... I didn't say anything...
I won't ever tailgate.
DO YOU KNOW HOW MANY FUCKIN' CAR LENGTHS IT TAKES TO STOP A CAR AT 35 M.P.H.?
No.
SIX FUCKIN' CAR LENGTHS... THAT'S ABOUT A HUNDRED AND SIX FUCKIN' FEET, MISTER! YOU WERE FOLLOWING TEN FEET BEHIND ME... IF I'D HAD TO STOP SUDDENLY, YOU WOULD HAVE HIT ME. I WANT YOU TO GET A DRIVER'S MANUAL, AND I WANT YOU TO STUDY THAT MOTHERFUCKER... AND I WANT YOU TO OBEY THE GOD DAMN RULES. FIFTY FUCKIN' THOUSAND PEOPLE WERE KILLED ON THE ROAD LAST YEAR. CAUSE OF FUCKIN' ASSHOLES LIKE YOU. TELL ME YOU'RE GONNA GET A MANUAL.
I'll get a manual. and study it.
FUCKIN' "A".
What is this, Rogoff?
I don't know yet.
Who is this man?
He's just been fingerprinted, and I'll run these blood tests right away. We'll find out soon enough.
He's not Madison?
Not even close.
I examined Madison last night, Marshall. He had a headache.
A headache?
I did a routine onceover, and gave him a sleeping pill. I've never seen this man before. Neither have the guards. I don't think he's in the system.
No... I don't feel so good. I would like some aspirin.
Coming up.
Do you remember?
No... I don't. Why?
What's the matter?
Nothin'.
We know that.
Who was the man?
Who is it?
He won't give his name.
I wouldn't know how.
You say you haven't seen your son since the day before yesterday?
When he went to work, right.
What about yesterday?
He didn't come home.
I want to see him.
Yes, and we need to talk to him... if we can. Mel, let's get Peter in here.
Pete, can you tell us now, anything about this?
Pete, what happened to you?
Now, Mack, what's the situation?
I'm not entirely certain, Captain. You'll have to see for yourself.
That's not Fred Madison?
No, sir, it's not.
Who is it?
I couldn't say, sir... Captain Henderson?
Yeah, Mack?
Captain... this is some spooky shit we got here.
Repeat that, Bill.
Warden, it's not him. It was not Fred Madison in that cell.
Of course, it's Madison!!! Who else could it be?
I don't know. The guards say they've never seen him before.
Where is he now?
He's in the infirmary, being examined.
Did you ask him who he is?
He... He can't talk. it appears as if he can't talk, anyway.
If he's not Madison, then where's Madison?
I've got men searching the building and the grounds now.
How about Madison? Have we had even a hint of his whereabouts?
Nothing, Marsh. Vanished. There's an APB out on him. His photo's been faxed nationwide.
One of the guards must have leaked it.
What's the word on the street?
You just gonna let him go?
We'll get a tail put on him.
Just rest easy, Pete. You're gonna be okay.
Are you hungry, honey? I'll fix you something.
Where's Pete?
Out in back.
You talk to him?
No... Here he comes.
We saw you that night, Pete.
You came home. Your friend Sheila brought you here.
A cell that was supposed to be occupied by an inmate named Fred Madison.
The wife killer?
Yes.
His condition? What do you mean?
His physical condition.
Same as always. Pete takes care of himself.
Have you made any charges against him?
No.
Then he's coming home with his mother and me.
All right... but you see our predicament... Legally we can't hold him, but he may be able to help us... perhaps later. For now, he's free to leave.
Better.
Arnie called this morning while you were sleepin'. They miss you pretty bad down at the garage. I told 'im you still had a "fever".
Okay. Thanks.
Nice to know they can't seem to get along without ya.
Yeah.
You really don't remember the other night, do you?
What night is that?
The night before you showed up in the slammer...
Goin' out with these clowns for a while.
Do ya good.
Hey.
Sit down a minute.
What's up?
Sit down.
You don't look so good.
I gotta headache... What's goin' on?
The police called us.
Yeah? what did they want?
They wanted to know if we'd had a chance to find out what happened to you the other night. They wanted to know if you remembered anything.
But I don't remember anything. What did you tell 'em?
Sheila?
Yes, there was a man with you... She brought you here... She didn't know what else to do.
What is this? Why didn't you tell me? What?... I don't remember any of this.
Never saw him before in my life.
Did you tell the police this?
We're not saying anything about that night to the police. We should all forget that night.
What happened to me?
Please tell me.
No.
Wonderful!!... Wonderful to see you, Pete. How are you?
Feeling good, Arnie. Ready to get to work.
Wonderful, Pete. Really wonderful. Alotta people Pete... alotta people are gonna be very happy.
Mr. Smith has been waiting for you and Mrs. Trueworthy. Can you take care of Mr. Smith now?
Sure.
Mr. Eddy's called every day... Can I call him to come in?
Sure, Arnie. Bring 'em on, I'm ready.
Andy, who is that guy?
I don't know his name. He's a friend of Dick Laurent's, I think.
Dick Laurent?
Yes, I believe so.
But Dick Laurent is dead, isn't he?
He is? I didn't think you knew Dick. How do you know he's dead?
I don't. I don't know him.
Dick can't be dead. Who told you he was dead?
I was here yesterday.
Yeah, I remember.
How would you like to take me to dinner?
I don't know.
Okay, then, I'll take you to dinner.
Where's your phone? I have to call another taxi.
Over there.
I want more.
Me, too.
Can I call you?
Yeah... Call me at home. I'll give you the number.
Okay, baby.
Hello.
It's me...
Hi.
I can't see you tonight.
Okay...
I have to go somewhere with Mr. Eddy.
Sure.
I think he suspects something... We have to be careful... I miss you.
Pete?
Me, too.
I'll call you again.
Hello.
Meet me at the Starlight Motel on Sycamore... I'll be there in twenty minutes.
Okay.
He'll kill us.
Are you positive he knows?
I'm not positive... but... he knows.
So what do we do?
I don't know.
We should stop seeing each other.
No... no.
Have you partied with him?
I used to.
You like it?
No, honey... It was part of the deal.
What deal?
He works for Mr. Eddy.
What's he do?
He makes films for Mr. Eddy.
Pornos.
Yeah.
How'd you get in with these fuckin' people?
Pete... Don't...
How'd it happen, Alice?
It was a long time ago... I met someone at this place called Moke's... we became friends. He told me about a job...
In pornos?
No... A job... I didn't know what. He set up an appointment for me to see a man.
You liked it.
If you want me to go away, I'll go away.
So, should I call Andy?
Andy?
That's his name... Andy. Our ticket out of here.
Yeah. Call him.
I'll set it up for tomorrow night. You'll meet me at his place at eleven o'clock... Don't drive there... Take a bus... Make sure no one follows you... His address is easy to remember... It's 2224 Deep Dell Place... It's a white stucco job on the south side of the street... I'll be upstairs with Andy... The back door will be open... That leads into the kitchen  go through the kitchen to the living room  there's a bar there... At eleven fifteen, I'll ask Andy to fix me a drink... When he does, you can crack him in the head... Okay?
Okay...
Lemme call him now. Make sure he's not already busy tomorrow night.
Okay.
Set.
Why are ya goin' so early?
'Cause that's how long it's gonna take, baby.
What if Andy tips off Mr. Eddy?
Are you kidding?... I've got so much on Andy, it isn't funny.
What about tonight?... Whatiya gonna do about Mr. Eddy tonight?
I'm not goin' home tonight... I'm goin' somewhere else... To a girlfriend's house. But, we still have a coupla things to take care of...
Oh, yeah?... What else?
Are you my man?
Yes.
Are you gonna be a man about this, Pete?
You got him.
Alice, I...
You all right?
We killed him.
You killed him.
Alice?
Alice...
We gotta get the stuff and get out of here.
Where's the bathroom?
Up the stairs  down the hall.
Look at all this shit... I know a fence... he'll give us money and get us passports in exchange for this and the car... We can go anywhere.
Alice?
How'd the camera get so high like that?
And smooth... Almost no movement  back and forth, I mean.
Like you'd get if it was hand held.
Right... This just glided along.
Might be a good time to try using it again.
Anybody else have a key to the house.
We'll keep a watch on the house.
As best we can.
If anything else happens, you'll call us.
You don't remember being awakened? It looks like you were aware of someone.
Or something.
Has anyone made any threats to either of you recently?
Or not so recently?
Now we'll see what this son of a bitch is up to.
Yeah.
You recognize that guy?
Yeah... Laurent.
What a fuckin' job.
His or ours?
Ours, Ed.
We've got Pete Dayton's prints all over this place.
You know what I think?
What's that, Ed?
There's no such thing as a bad coincidence.
Very strange.
What is?
The angle. The high angle shot on the tape.
Do you own a video camera?
No. Fred hates them.
No.
Maid? Relative?
No, one of us is always here to let the maid in. Nobody else has a key.
We'll see that the patrol of the house is doubled.
I don't know if I want to stay here. I don't feel safe.
Do you always sleep here?... In this room?... Both of you?
This is our bedroom.
You're a musician?
Yes, I thought my wife...
I like to remember things my own way.
What do you mean by that?
How I remember them. Not necessarily the way they happened.
Why not?
It kept going off for some reason. False alarms.
Why not?
I forgot. Anyway, I hate the idea of acting paranoid.
You're not contagious are you?
I don't think so.
Good... You up for a drive?
Where to? Hey, Lanie, I heard you were out of it for a while, too.
Just goin' up'ta "Tops"... Maybe the "Ten Pin".
Sheila'll be at "Tops".
Sure, what's wrong with that?
Okay.
This rod is a fuckin', embarrassment, Carl. Whatiya burn in this thing, "V"?
Texaco... What's wrong with that?
Listen.
You gotta be kiddin'... This is the boulevard... You can't hear yourself think.
You want somethin'?
No, I'm okay.
What's happenin'?
They're comin' with us.
Pile in.
You okay, man?
What?
You okay?... What's wrong?
Pete... You okay?
Yeah.
I'm, okay... You okay?
Sure, I'm okay.
Well? How do you like it?
I don't know. The cheeks maybe... look a little 
Cheeks? Cheeks? Right. Too much, you think?
Too little.
Too little? Too little. Okay, wait for me.
No  just there  on the first level. Don't look for us. We'll see you.
You don't seem quite sure, Jessica. Can you do it? Will you?
Breakin scanners report intrusion, identify.
Logan5... Francis7, authorized duty quadrant. Intrusion accidental.
Clear Logan5 and Francis7.
I don't know who you are. I'd like to thank someone.
It doesn't matter who we are. Follow the tunnel to the end.
Will there be someone to tell us where to go from there...?
Someone will follow. When you come to the lock, he will tell you how to go on the other side. Jessica may go with you as far as the lock.
No. Jessica goes back now. Take her back. Now! Go on back. Back outside, Jessica.
How long have you been living here?
For as long as I can remember.
What kind of place is this?
Just a place, I suppose... who knows?
How did you get here?
I have always been here...
Are there any other humans?
Gracious... no.
Have any other people ever passed through?
But there may be a few around somewhere.
What makes you think so?
My parents thought so. Mother and Father. You know?
Mother and  ? You knew your mother and father?
Where are they?
Dead... they're dead... and buried.
They're beautiful. May I have one too please?
No  I'm sorry. It's not possible.
It isn't fair. I'll give you one of my favorite cats... a Jellicle cat. "Jellicle cats have cheerful faces, Jellicle cats have bright black eyes; They like to practice their airs and graces And wait for the Jellicle Moon to rise."
I'm sorry but I don't have anything to give you.
What's beyond this place  do you know?
No, no, no
Did your Mother or Father ever mention another place?
Never, never, ever. Nothing.
May we stay here for a while? We'd like to rest.
Of course you can stay. This belongs to the people.
Are you ready to put him in?
Not yet.
All right.
We're leaving.
What a pity. I was hoping you'd be here to bury me.
To a city with thousands and thousands of people.
Alive?
Thousands and thousands... as many as my cats?
More... many more.
And all alive you say?
Is that really it? It doesn't seem very far. Will we be there soon?
I promise. We'll go on as soon as it's light.
That's better than gold when it's cold.
Thank you. Tell me  what do those words mean? "Beloved husband"... "Beloved son"... "Beloved wife"...
My father was the husband and my mother was the wife. "Beloved" is a word they used  to stay together.
Stay? They lived together all their years?
Oh, yes... I think...
I know... We're going to try and get in this way. I don't think you can make it.
Oh... I did so look forward to seeing all those people.
I'm sorry.
Yes...
Can you make it back?
Oh my... I'll try.
Hello, Sandman.
Hello.
Do you want to see Doc?
We don't get many Sandmen. I think we've only had one other since I've been here.
A Sandman can get as sick of his face as anyone else. Where's the doctor?
I like your face. Would you mind if Doc took a picture? I'd like him to give your face to somebody else.
It's all right with me. Is he here?
My name's Holly... Holly 13. In ancient times they said my number was unlucky. Do you believe in luck?
No  Look, I'm in a hurry.
Yes, cats, of course. What else could they be? Cats. Of course each one has his own name too.
But there are so many of them. Do you know each one separately.
Yes indeed, everyone. Actually, they all have three. "The naming of cats is a difficult matter. It isn't just one of your holiday games. You may think at first I'm mad as a hatter when I tell you a cat must have THREE DIFFERENT NAMES." An ordinary name and a fancy name. That's two. Do you want to guess what the third one is?
And... and how were you grown? Inside your mother?
Yes...
Are you sure?
Mother and Father said so... you know?
What kind of jewel is this?
I don't know.
You're both full of secrets like Macavity. Did you steal this?
No.
"Macavity, Macavity, there's no one like Macavity, There never was a cat of such deceitfulness and suavity."
What belongs to the people?
All this. All of it.
What people?
I don't know... but it does.
We'll have to bury him.
What's that?
They're put into the ground so they can be visited by the living...
I'll make the arrangements.
At least it's over...
Of course... that's settled then. But just you remember your promise...
We'll remember. But that's a long time off...
Come with us.
Where are you going?
Goodbye.
Oh, my...
What's wrong, Available?
Please... No.
Please... no? You mean "not here"  that's it? You're a private Available but particular. Don't worry. There's no one here but me. And you.
No. Just no.
You prefer women?
No.
Well then...?
Nothing. I felt sad, I put myself on the circuit. It was a mistake.
Sad? What made you sad?
A friend of mine went on Carousel tonight. Now he's gone.
Yes... probably he was renewed?
He was killed.
Killed? Why do you use that word?
Isn't it right? Isn't that what you do? Kill.
I never 'killed' anybody in my life. Sandmen terminate Runners. Who brought you?
Nobody. I felt sad... I put myself on the circuit.
You felt sad. What's your name?
Jessica.
You're beautiful. Let's have sex.
No.
Later.
No.
But you put yourself on the circuit!
I thought I had to do something.
And?
I changed my mind.
And now?
Curious.
About what?
How a Sandman lives.
Let's have sex. I thought you were curious.
Not about that.
I'm listening.
I'm afraid to tell you.
I'm not armed. Well?
Why is it wrong to run?
You shouldn't even think such things... And you picked a strange person to say them to 
I suppose. But what if you want to live?
So? Do what everyone does. Try like hell for renewal.
But if you're one of the misfits... that's where I come in.
I didn't say that I would run... I just...
Are you a 5 or a 6?
Six. I go red next year.
You're years away... I don't know why you're thinking of these things, much less talking about them. Want to try?
What Quad do you live in?
K.
You're sure you don't want to try?
You could have called me yourself.
But I wasn't sure you'd come.
Here I am. Shall I come in?
I couldn't get you out of my mind.
I'm the most beautiful woman you've ever seen, I suppose?
Maybe... sure...
Thanks... but I have the choice.
Of course.
Then it's still no.
You can have any woman in the city. What do you really want?
You know.
I don't believe you. There has to be more.
All right.
Why show me?
I'm going to run.
Why tell me?
You know something.
About running, dying what?
Both... running's what I'm interested in.
I know what everyone knows. Try like hell for Renewal. You have the same chance everyone else has.
It's different now. Help me.
How can I?
Where did you get that?
A Runner gave it to me.
And then you killed him, right?
I let him go... believe me.
I don't..
Speak to your friends for me, Jessica... please...
Please? What friends?
I don't have much time.
I never heard of a Sandman running... ever...
And I never heard of Sanctuary.
Are you here to help me?
What do you need?
What're you going to do?
That's tomorrow.
I wish I could help you.
Maybe you'll think of something...
I wish I knew what you think I know.
If you did know, you'd tell me.
Of course 
If you trusted me, you'd know.
We're coming to Arcade. Shall we Relive together?
A Runner... Cathedral. A woman.
You're not going, are you?
Why not? Maybe she'll help me. You won't. You'd better stay here.
I'd rather be with you.
That's nice.
They're like beasts. Wild.
Maybe they're angry because they're grown in meccanobreeders.
Instead of what? Nine months inside a woman: We're all raised the same but most of us don't become cubs in Cathedral.
Some people say children need human mothering.
Insane. Nurseries are better than any mother could be.
I'm only telling you what I've heard... Haven't you ever wondered what your seedmother was Like...?
Uhuh.
I have.
When did you begin to question Lastday?
I don't remember exactly... except I was a Green. What would you like to relive, Logan?
Let's see  how long has it been?
Just follow  no matter how it seems...
But what is this  why?
The Cubs. When they're flying on muscle there's no way to catch up. Without the dazzle, they'd just go past us   too fast
Muscle? I don't know that one.
I'm ashamed. I was bringing you to be killed.
Where? Sanctuary? Can you take me there?
Logan, I don't know where Sanctuary is. But if I take you to them, they'll kill you.
All right. But why? I didn't kill the Runner.
Yes, but they won't know that... or care. They're hunting you, Logan. Maybe me too, now...
That's nothing... there's a Sandman behind us, too and there'll be more soon. Take me to them.
I  I can't.
Then  why don't you leave me  go to them  explain
No. Not that either.
Are you taking me to them?
Yes. I don't know what else to do  with him following us. Why do you keep running from your 
Because he's my friend  and I don't want to be killed by him  or anyone.
He's good, isn't he?
Will he find us and kill us? Yes... or one of the others. You know there's only one place to go now...
They won't believe us.
I'd rather take my chances with them... than with Francis.
They won't listen.
You think Sandmen will? There's no other way for me,
We'll convince them.
Exactly four steps now. Let me lead you. Now to the right. It's narrow here, you'll have to get behind me.
How will they know we're coming?
They're watching us now. They'll let us in when they're sure.
Will you take me with you?
Why, Jessica? You're still a green.
How do we know this is the right way?
It's the only way.
What do you suppose this was...?
Some kind of breeding pens... I suppose... They say people used to breed animals, fish, anything... ...to eat, of course.
Ycch. To kill things and then eat them. It must have been a savage world.
I'm afraid.
It's brighter there... besides, we can't go back.
I don't know what's going to happen to us Logan but  Are you glad you didn't kill him?
It doesn't make any difference anymore.
You're really one of us now, aren't you?
You knew that I wasn't before, didn't you? Why did you stay with me?
I wanted to... ...And you... what made you kill Sandmen?
I had to. I did kill... for the first time in my life I killed.
Because you felt like a Runner, didn't you.
I guess so... I know I felt something I never felt before... and I didn't like it... not a bit. I'll tell you one thing... Sanctuary better be worth it. That's the last place for me to live now.
For us.
What's that?
It feels like breath. It makes everything move. Your hair is moving.
And yours.
I hate outside! I hate it!
We'll be all right... We will...
Don't!
Sooner or later, we'll have to try something.
It's getting dark and cold. I'm tired.
Why don't we rest here? We know we can eat these.
Do you think everything's going to turn to ice?
I doubt it.
Don't ever let go.
I won't.
It all seemed to make sense until Box.
Do you think he was telling the Truth?
Maybe we're the first ones to get through... Maybe Sanctuary is near, now... another protected place. It couldn't be outside.
How would anyone know? Even if we find it  we can never go back.
You're right... it must be near now. We'll find it.
Thirty thousand years didn't last very long, did they?
What does it mean?
The Lifeclocks have no power outside.
You can have any woman in the city. What do you really want?
You know, Jessica.
...But I still have the choice...?
Of course.
Then the answer's yes...
I have never seen a face like that before. It must be the look of great age. Whoever he was he was terribly old.
Yes, do you think that's why he looks so sad?
They all have names and numbers on them. I wonder what they are?
"Beloved Husband". "Beloved Wife". What can all that mean?
Look at his face... and his hair... Is that what it is to grow old?
It could be...
That sweet madman  how could he come to exist?
He had a mother and father  and he knew them.
One in a million, I suppose
There's a Sanctuary... there is!
You want there to be one... that doesn't...
There has to be! I know it exists! It has to!!
No, there doesn't. Not really  just so many want it to exist... so many who don't want to die... want it so much that a place called Sanctuary becomes "real". But it doesn't exist. It never existed. Just the hope.
You're wrong!! It has to be!! It Just has to be!!
What are we promising him? What can we possibly give him?
He asked if we would bury him when his time comes.
We can't. We're going back.
To what?
I'm going to try and tell people what we've seen and 
You're lying! You'll never have the chance to tell anybody anything! You'll be killed the moment you're seen!
Do you expect me to let things go on without trying to change them?!
Things won't change... you know that! We can live here together, Logan... have a life as long as his... together!
Things change!
You want to go back to kill, is that it?! Now, you'll want to kill your own!!! Kill Sandmen!!! Killing's all you ever...!!!
Jessica... listen to me... listen to me... The Lifeclocks made me kill Francis. They make people die or be killed every day. If I didn't try and destroy that... I couldn't live here or anywhere. Do you understand?
I want to be alive and with you, that's all I want.
"Beloved son"... So people stayed together for that feeling of love... They would live and raise children together and be remembered. I think I feel that way, Logan. Can we be that way?
Yes. You and I, Jessica.
And Sanctuary?
Sanctuary is the right to live... nothing more. But nothing less, either...
Beloved husband...
Beloved wife...
What does that water do?
It's part of the hydrogalvanic system. The ocean tides are changed into energy somehow.
Is it inside the city?
Of course. I don't know where... I just took them for granted. It's our only chance.
What's your name?
I'm Mary 2.
Where do you live, Mary?
Here.
Why aren't you in Nursery?
I'm very smart.
When do you go up?
I never go upstairs. You're a nice old lady.
It's him! The first Sandman. He killed... Doc.
No, Holly  wait! He's running. Tell them the rest!
He's the one. You too. I remember. He was in a hurry. Just a face job. Dark hair, I said. Then he killed Doc and you grabbed me  and the machine blew up and I ran... I ran.
Holly. Holly! Please... The other Sandman. Remember the one who came after 
That's right. The other one came after. The older one. Smashing, killing, burning!
...and he was hunting the first one, this one. Wasn't he? Wasn't he? This one was running, the other one was hunting him...
Yes. Oh yes. He was after you. I remember. You're running!
You are here. I couldn't believe it when they told me. What are you doing?
Turn this way. No, no... not you... YOU!
You should've seen me take my last Runner... perfect. I backed him up against a residence pool and when he terminated... his hand... So now you've seen him... what's the difference awake or asleep?
Open your eyes once, idiot. It's not every day that a Sandman son is born. I'm telling you, Francis  that's him!
Maybe, maybe not. What's the difference? Come on, Logan, let's get out of here before everybody finds out.
Had enough?
Even the alarm didn't wake him.
You need a lift. Let's go to Arcade and celebrate... your alert successor... Logan6.
Has anyone ever broken in to where the babies are?
Not in my time...
Why?
Just wondered... what happens?
Dunno... flameout maybe. Whatever happens, you can bet it's final. But who would want to find out?
But you don't know, you just say what everyone says. "One for one. One for one."
Well, why not!? That's exactly how everything works. How else could the city stay in balance  You have a better idea?
No, but at least I wonder sometimes  instead of doing that "one for one" song of yours. You sound like a sleepteacher with a stuck tape.
Well the minute you get a better idea you can stop wondering. You know, Logan  you wonder a lot. Too much for a Sandman.
Did you ever see Francis8?
I never even visited Nursery before tonight. When you wonder, it slows you up  you know?
I don't know what makes you so curious. You have any idea who his seedmother was?
Of course not! I'm curious, not sick.
You missed something special.
Well... you can't have them all.
The damned Yellows are getting out of hand. Those three ought to be in Cathedral. No business scrambling in Arcade...
What an old, old man you're getting to be, Francis. Weren't you ever a Yellow? I bet you were even wilder than  come on, Sandman.
You should have been with us in Nursery, Daniel. I'm positive I recognized him 
Come on. I don't want to miss the filingin. There'll be some I know tonight, I think...
Now there's a few who could have been his seedmother.
Only a few? You're just not trying.
Who invited you?
I'm in my party mood.
That was a great shot you made.
Yes. But you look a little rusty to me  what were you doing, wondering?
I just might look in on New You 483 myself.
You? Why? You're already beautiful.
No  it's that last Runner  someone in 483 was trying to help him.
What the hell took you so long?
Did you ever see anybody renew?
I think you've been skulling out too much. First Nursery and now stupid questions.
Did you?
Of course.
Anybody we know?
Look... why don't you get into the water... you need it... more than I do.
I'm fine... See you...
At Carousel tonight?
What's going on, Logan?!
It has nothing to do with you.
What are you talking about?! I saw you let a Runner go? I saw you, Logan?? Tell me!!
Why did you do that??!!
I didn't do anything, Francis! They've made us believe that...
Why did you do that???!!!
It's a real privilege, Sandman.
Thanks. I thought you'd be older. I expected a Red.
I am.
Your own work?
And I did it myself right on there.
I designed it myself. What'll it be... a face job or a fullbody job?
Just the face.
Fine... Holly will get you ready. You're in good hands, believe me.
Do you have anything special in mind?
I don't care... Just get it over with.
Hurry... hurry... hurry.
Are you too startled? Am I too removed from your ken? I'm neither machine nor man... but a perfect fusion of the two... and better than either. No human sculptor could match this greatness... don't you agree?
All right  what are you?
Your turn.
We're hungry do you have anything to eat?
Anything to eat?
How do you think we got here??!!
You walked in. I saw you. Don't you remember?
Where do you think we came from?
From? From? From?
We were sent here and you know it. Others have been sent here. Where are they? Hiding?
Hiding? Yes! Hiding, hiding.
Where do we go?! Where do we go from here??!!
Is that the wind? Not yet... You must hear my birds sing.
You know about Sanctuary! I know you do! You have to help us! You don't have a choice! It isn't your decision!! Tell us.
Never a pair. I have never had a pair.
Where do you send them?
You're a beautiful pair.
Answer the question!
Do you know how long all this will last? Not thirty years... or thirty thousand years... but thirty thousand years... and you'll be part of it. Ages will roll... Ages. And you'll be here... the two of you... eternally frozen... frozen... beautiful.
There must be somebody else up here. I can't believe that he's 
Let me sculpt you and I will show you where the others have gone.
That's better. How do you want us?
Nude. Imagine, a pair.
It'll be all right...
How do you want us?
Up there.
All right. Now you keep your bargain.
Wait for the wind! Wait and hear the birds sing over you!
We're ready.
How did they get in here?
Regular storage procedure... the same as the other food... The other food stopped coming and they started.
What other food?
Fish and plankton, sea greens and protein from the sea. It's all here  ready  fresh as harvest day. Fish and plankton, sea greens and protein from the sea... And then it stopped coming and they... ...came instead. So I store them here. I'm ready. And you're ready. It's my Job  protein, plankton, grass from the sea.
I'm a Sandman!
I cut up a Sandman yesterday. They said I'd never get him... but I cut him up good, I did.
I feel sorry for you, boy!
For me? Better feel sorry for yourself, Sandman!
No, for you! How old are you, Billy?
Fourteen? Fifteen? Your days are running out. How long can you last? A year. Six months? What happens when you're sixteen and you go green?
Nothing will happen! I make the rules as I go!! Cubs do what I say! Always have! Always will! I got Cathedral and I'll never let go!
No cubs over fifteen, Billy! Ever heard of a cub with a green flower? You'll leave Cathedral then, Billy, when you're on green, because they won't let a green stay here. If you try to stay the young ones will gutrip you apart!
Shut up! Shut up your damn mouth!
Hey...
See something you like, my man?
Yes. I would like my flask back.
You callin' me a thief, my man?
No, I'm just calling you... a guy who has my flask.
And if that is your socalled "flask," how would I have it unless I was, in fact, a thief?
I don't know?
Okay, now you gone and done it. You done messed with my business bitch!
Sir, I would prefer if you didn't raise your voice. It's making my muscles tighten.
Hello, friend, my name is Nicky. I understand you're seeking a roommate, as per your advertisement in the Village Voice. Would it be possible for me to fill the slot?
Uh, don't you want to know what the rent is?
Yes. What is rent?
Eighthundred, split down the middle. Tuesdays and Thursdays I rehearse with my scene partner so the living room will be off limits.
Off limits.
Right. And as far as household items: we can share the soap, but we'll split the cost 60/40. Cause the person who physically goes out and buys the soap shouldn't have to pay as much as the other guy. Aren't you boiling in that outfit?
No.
It's like eighty degrees in this hallway. You from the South?
Yeah. The deep South.
Why is that funny?
I don't know.
And sorry, man, but no dogs allowed.
It looks like the work of a brother...
A black guy?
If it's Cassius, yes.
A little strange. I can't stop thinking about this girl, Valerie.
Why? Did she hurt you? Do you miss her? Need a shoulder to cry on?
That just hurt a lot.
I've always wanted to kill someone. Can I do it?
That was amazing. Thanks so much. You didn't have to do that.
That's okay. I get messed with all the time and when I saw him doing that to you I just lost it. I hate when people take advantage of tourists. It ruins it for the rest of us.
You think I'm a tourist?
I'm sorry. I just assumed. Your accent maybe. Where are you from?
The South.
Really?
Yeah. Deep south. She laughs along with him, not sure why.
Why are you laughing?
I don't know, but I like it. Say. Your glasses are nice. They make your eyes look sparkly and big. It's fun to look at them.
My dad's an optometrist.
My dad's in hell, and he's falling apart.
I'm sorry. It's really tough when your parents get older.
If I don't save him, I don't know what I'm gonna do.
Well, I'm sure a nice southern boy like you will figure something out.
Here, have a Popeye's. This drumstick ain't for beatin' it's for eatin'.
That's alright. I already ate lunch. I actually wouldn't mind getting a Gelati.
Could I come with you to getting a Gelati?
If you want to.
Want to? A million angry octopus people couldn't hold me back!
"Octopus people?"
Uh, it's a deep south expression.
It's freezing my hands.
It's not that cold. Here, let me wrap it.
This town is really going to hell lately. So what part of the city do you live in?
I have an apartment. I don't remember exactly where. My dog knows, though.
You have a dog? What kind?
I'm not sure. I'd ask him, but he's uptown talking to his contacts.
I'd love to have a dog. But I go to school full time. It wouldn't be fair to the dog.
School?
Parsons School of Design. I knew growing up I wasn't much to look at, so I put my energy into making things that are pretty.
What's that pleasant smell coming from, your skin?
My perfume?
Valerie, it feels like there's a bunch of butterflies flapping around in my stomach. Is that normal?
Sometimes, sure.
Good. I was concerned.
So you're saying, make all pants with a drawstring, then heavier set gals don't have to feel humiliated by telling their waist size in front of the whole store?
Basically, yeah.
Wow. Maybe you should make drawstring socks for gals with fat ankles.
You know what's nice about you? You just seem happy being yourself. You don't try to act cool.
Thanks much. You know what's nice about you, Valerie?
What?
Your juicy, heartshaped ass.
What was that?
I... I don't know why I just said that. I meant to say that...
Hey.
Nicky? Oh my God. Stay right there.
What were you thinking coming here?
I'm not sure, but it didn't involve getting blinded with poison.
Valerie?
Are you dead?
No.
What are you doing?
I think I'm floating.
Why would you be floating?
I don't know. Maybe it's because of your sweet voice.
Am I supposed to not be freaked out right now? Because I am.
Look, just because you're floating doesn't mean I'm gonna forget about you giving me the finger.
That wasn't me. I was being possessed by my brother, Adrian. He's the one who call you a gross pig.
What do you mean, "possessed?"
Remember when I told you my Dad was in Hell?
Yes...
Well, that's because he's the Devil. And he wants to keep his throne for another tenthousand years. Which is fine with me, but not with my brothers, so they broke out of Hell, causing my dad...
..."The Devil?"...
...to decompose. And I love my Dad very much. So I came to Earth to save him but then crazy eyes stole my flask and I met you and... well, my dog tells me I just might be in love with you.
You gotta believe me. You gotta believe in the butterflies.
Okay, I do. Get back up here.
Can we go fly over Central Park?
Next time. Tonight, I want to share the most beautiful thing I could possibly imagine.
We're going to Jersey?
East Rutherford.
I never thought I'd ever see Ozzy live until he was dead. Please tell me you like metal.
"Mister Crowley, what's inside of your head..."
Don't do it.
I have to, Valerie.
Nicky!
That was Cassius!
Where'd a sweet Southern boy learn to fight like that?
From my dad's side of the family.
Do me.
I love you.
I love you.
Hello.
You smell like coconuts.
It's "Comptoir Sud Pacific." Makes me feel like a hula girl. Which is kinda what I'm going for. Wanna come in?
No thanks. I'm looking for a girl named Valerie who also smells like coconuts.
Valerie Doran? Two floors up, one window over.
Thanks, much. Good luck with the genital tucking.
I don't need luck. I'm good.
Adrian?
Andrew.
You got the wrong window again, man.
Oh. Sorry, Andrew. Valerie?
Please. You got to.
All right...
I'm not Nicky. I'm not home! I don't live here!
Dude, it's us. Let us in.
Good idea... kill me.
Dude. Seriously?
Yes. I'll meet you at Grand Central at noon. Okay. Do me. I command you.
You gotta kill yourself.
I'll just go to Heaven.
So I was driving to work today, and some bozo in a Cadillac cut me off...
Oh, that's terrible, Reege...
So I followed him...
You followed him?
I followed him all the way downtown, and when he gets out of the car, I reach under my seat and pull out an aluminum bat.
You keep a bat under your seat?
Recently, yes! So I run up behind this guy, and start bashing his brains in with this bat, and it made me feel happy! Did you ever see THE UNTOUCHABLES?
Yes, great movie...
I was DeNiro!
Which way did he go?
That way.
What's Ozzy trying to say there?
Absolutely nothing. The Blizzard always came straight with his messages. But wrap your minds around this one.
Come on. One more time.
Not again, fellas. It kind of hurts.
No thanks. I'm afraid I wouldn't be able to give Ozzy the focus he deserves.
Whoa, that chick must be the real deal, then. Later on.
See ya, fellas.
Sounds like our devil dance actually worked this time.
'Bout time...
There's our man.
Mr. Sleepyhead must have some major ties to the dark side.
What's with that guy?
Gotta be one of his disciples or something.
Yo, man, I think that devil guy just got ripped off.
Should we wake him up?
Yeah. You do it.
Did you check out the dragon mouth?
The Dark Prince is here.
Look who's back from the dead.
Six, six, six, pick up sticks.
That's a big pass, Elton John.
We're going to see Ozzy play at the Meadowlands, right now. Wanna come, Nicky?
You sure you're down with this?
Little nervous. Wanna puke.
Looking for the chief.
We know where to find Nicky.
Schnapps...
Peppermint... alright.
This don't look good.
Can't Beefy use his penis powers to get us out of this?
No wonder your uncle's so weird...
I gotta say this cake tastes a little funny.
I was in love one time but she said I wasn't financially reliable enough. And she needed that.
By she, do you mean he?
No.
Easy, Liberace.
Oh, would you grow up.
His name is Andrew. I know that guy.
Of course you do, Tommy Tune.
Hey...
Your father wants to see you and your brothers in the throne room.
Okay, but Jimmy, when the house is rockin', don't forget the knockin'!
Nothing's getting through that. The fire is solid as a rock.
We gotta get this bad boy burning again. Ideas?
So go get 'em, Jimmy!
I'm just a demon, Nicky. I don't got devil blood in me. I'd last two minutes up there with your brothers.
You're not saying it's up to me?
I've never been to Earth. I've never even slept over at some other dude's house!
You're the spawn of Satan. You got it in you.
You were gone ten seconds. What happened?
I got hit by a big light that was attached to a lot of metal.
You know, I was the one who created Hell.
I know, your wickedness.
I started slow, though. For years, I was just giving people hot foots. Actually, you can give all the credit for Hell to my first wife; she was the inspiration. She was an ugly one, too. One day, she asked me if I wanted super sex. I said I'll take the soup.
You know what was in Hell when I came down here, Cassius?
It's Stanley, sir.
Nothing. No mountains. No castles. Looked like a giant parking lot. It wasn't even called Hell.
What was it called, sir.
Boogerland!
That's nice, Grandpa. Why don't you just enjoy the fishing?
I can't enjoy anything. I go fishing. I catch nothing. I go to orgies, I catch everything...
I'm lucky to get away with just the head boobs, right?
Coulda been much worse.
That's what I'm thinkin'...
Hey.
That's a pretty brassiere.
Thanks.
Could you maybe not tell anyone about this?
You got it. Could you maybe not tell anyone about this?
You got it.
Bus?
Beast.
Nothing, Dad. Just rearranging the furniture.
Cassius, didn't I tell you to stay out of your brother's mind?
Now everybody sit down.
Hey, Dad, I'm almost finished laying down my monsters of metal compilation tape. I really think it's a masterpiece.
Okay, kid, we'll listen to it later.
This was a very difficult decision, because I have three wonderful sons. I mean, Adrian, so smart, so ruthless. And Cassius, so strong, so tough. And Nicky, so... so...
Don't worry about coming up with anything. It's cool.
Such a sweet boy. But after much thought and careful consideration, I've decided that the ruler for the next ten thousand years is going to have to be... me.
I mean... tough break.
The important thing for the stability of our rule is to maintain the balance between good and evil. And I don't think any of you are ready for that responsibility yet. You need the wisdom that comes only with the passage of time.
Now that was an experience. "You are only coming through in waves." That line blows my mind every time.
Definitely.
I don't care what kind of mood you're in at the start of that song. When it's over, that mood has been altered. Wow. Great shit. What's next?
Well, I thought that after messing with your head, I'd give you a little kick in the keester.
Who is this, Metallicka?
Metallica, Dad. Come on.
I was just playing with you.
You're a good devil, Dad.
And I also happen to be a Jets fan.
This is bad, Nicky.
How bad?
I'm gonna die, Nicky. If the gates are broken, no new souls can get in, which means I'll start to deteriorate into nothing.
To do that Cassius and Adrian have to come back through the other way.
So go get 'em, Dad!
I'm too weak. The process has already begun.
Nicky, the worst thing that could happen on Earth is you get killed, in which case, boom, you end up back here.
Are you telling me I have to go to Earth and kill my brothers?
No. This can't be happening.
Son, just do your best.
That's a train, son. Don't stand in front of them.
Well, I guess I'm going to have to take a mulligan on this one.
Please, Nicky, get back up there. Try to hurry.
Dad, Adrian's got the whole city after me. He's always a step ahead. What am I gonna do?
What are you gonna do? Look at me, Nicky! I got no legs, I got no hips, I got one ear...
Uh, I'll do my best, Dad. Do you have any advice at all for me?
I can't hear you, Nicky. I can't hear anything!
You came through, Nicky.
I came through for you, Mom and the butterflies, Dad.
You're back in Hell now, kid. There's no butterflies here. If you want butterflies, you need to be on Earth.
What about you and Grandpa and everyone in Hell?
Nicky, I let my butterflies die once upon a time and it's never stopped hurting. That's right, you heard me, Holly. I'm still in love with you.
Listen, I got down low. Your mom's got up high. You take care of the middle.
I will, Dad. But in the words of Motley Crue, this will always be my... home sweet home...
Knock, knock.
Yes, Jimmy.
No, no, that's not what I said. He can keep his thumbs, but the fingers gotta go.
Oh, and don't forget, you're shoving a pineapple up Hitler's ass at four o'clock.
I got no ears! I can't hear!
Now he's got no ears! You happy, Nicky? Your father's got no ears!
Check onetwo. Check onetwo.
Put it back on my head. I'm falling apart here.
He's got 'til midnight tonight, Nicky. You get your ass back up there. You save your father!
I'm sorry. After careful consideration, I regretfully have to decline.
C'mon, man, I'm just asking for one Superbowl ring.
In exchange for eternal damnation of your soul? You're too nice of a guy for me to want to do that to you, Mr. Marino.
You did it for Namath.
Yeah, but Joe was coming here anyways. Just go back to Earth and enjoy your records and the Hall of Fame and the beautiful family and all that.
This is bullshit, man. I'm gonna win the Superbowl this year, with or without you!
Now you're talking.
What's with all the whoowhoo noises?
Everything's fine, pop.
Last time you said that the renaissance happened.
Please, pop, just go back to your room.
Can I take him with me and have sex with his head?
Sure, pop. Whatever you want.
My name's Beefy. I'm an old friend of your father's. He's asked me to help you out.
I just need to find my brothers and be on my way, Beefy.
It's not gonna be easy. Your brothers can possess people. So they probably won't look like themselves. You have to be suspicious of everyone.
Okay, "bro," this jig is up... Just get in the bottle. Just slide right on in there.
It's not me, moron.
Oh. Sorry.
Makin' friends already.
It's freezing up here, Beefy.
You're on Earth now, kid. Gonna have the same physical needs and limitations a human has. We'll stop by Kmart. Get you some warm clothes.
I also have this odd pain in my mid section. Kind of a hollow feeling...
That pain is hunger.
So far, so good. Now what?
Put it in your mouth.
Hey... Popeye's chicken is ass kickin'!
It sure is. Now eat it up. You're gonna need your energy.
I got energy up the yingying. Let's get cracking!
From now on. I'm just going to avoid all moving metal objects.
Great. Now your father gave me some deposit money for a nice pad on the Upper East Side. But I misplaced it.
You'll be alright. Go on. Big day tomorrow. Don't forget to do that sleep thing I told you about.
Got ya. Is it okay if I do the sleep thing?
This is intense! And it happens every day? Sometimes twice? I gotta tip my hat to you people!
Look, it's okay for me to shit the street. But you gotta use a toilet.
Okay, just point me in the right direction next time.
Come on, there's like ten million people in this city and the clock is ticking.
Well, let's rock and roll.
All that running and chasing is making the sleep thing want to come early.
I think we have to work on narrowing down our list of suspects. Now I'm going to go check in with some of my contacts uptown.
Your brothers are upsetting the balance of good and evil.
What can I do about it?
You can't do jack shit... unless you learn your evil powers.
Nobody's as evil as my brothers. Those dudes put the wick in wicked.
Go get a soda out of the fridge.
But those are my roommate's sodas...
"But those are my roommate's sodas..." Does that sound like a statement the son of the devil would make?
You have the power to change the cola in that can into any other liquid  engine oil, bat's blood, moose piss. You just have to release the evil within you.
Release the evil?
I'm just saying, there's wickedness in you... I can tell from your snores.
We had the greatest afternoon of my life until Adrian made me tell her she had a heartshaped ass.
Maybe you love her. But what do I know? I'm baked out of my mind.
I seem to be in trouble, Beefy.
The shit has hit the fan, kid. Take a look.
I didn't murder anybody
Look. You were really high. Things happen.
I was with Valerie, I swear. This is Adrian's work. I've got to find him.
I think you're looking at him.
This is baloney!
He superimposed your head onto "Scarface."
What's Nicky doing down there?
Trying to capture his brother in a flask and preserve the balance of good and evil on Earth.
Did you just talk?
No.
Where is he? He's late.
He'll be here. Just keep your cool, kid.
They castrated him. He can't shoot arrows, he can't piss smoke.
I can't screw. I can't screw.
Oh my God, he just opened his mouth and swallowed that spit.
That turn you on there, RuPaul?
The home of eternal damnation, house of Hades, H.E. double toothpicks...
Maybe try the opposite of that.
Okay, can I just ask you something? What do you know about your mom?
My brothers told me my mother was a mountain goat. Which would explain my chronic halitosis.
A mountain goat? That's really sweet.
My mom wasn't a goat?
Try an angel.
An angel?
Unhhuh. Which would make you half angel.
Wow. What... what did she look like?
Well, she was about sixthree, only spoke Portuguese and had really long grey hair.
How come you're not older?
Angels don't get any older, son.
Where did you meet my father?
It was a long time ago, at some Heaven and Hell mixer.
Hello... yes, he's here with me now... I don't know if he's hot, he's my son, you perv! I'll call you back... Oh my God, I will call you back, goodbye. That was my friend, Michelle, she says "hi."
Well tell her I said "hi" back.
How did you see me?
We can see what's going on anywhere on Earth. Look.
Valerie's crying!
She's so nice.
I gotta help her. I gotta help Dad. I gotta help everybody.
Yeah, you do...
But how can I win? Adrian is stronger and smarter than me.
Stronger, yes. Smarter, definitely. But you have something he doesn't have.
A speech impediment?
What is it?
I'm not a hundred percent on that. God said when the time comes, you'll know what to do.
Well, nice meeting you, Jenna, Christa. Would it be okay if I called you Mommy?
It would be so okay.
Well, Mommy, get me to the big apple cause I'm gonna rock that town like a hurricane.
You're already there...
Oh. My. God. I can't believe you're here. Welcome. Can I just tell you, I am so excited right now.
So excited.
I remember that night, you had like four daiquiris.
Try four and a half. At first I totally didn't like him.
I'll call her later.
You know, we saw you save your girlfriend's life.
All these good people have totally been led astray.
Show him Central Park.
She goes to Parson's, right?
I would totally love to go there. But I hear it's really hard to get in.
Tada. So what time is my brother expected back?
Noon...
But what about the cash? Can we keep it or what?
Sure, why not?
It is awfully hot down here. How do you manage to stay so cool?
Weed lowers the body temperature. I read that... in, uh... er, science magazine.
And give you a good buzz.
Or maybe it will trap me inside for all eternity.
Uh. No it won't?
Oh, Nicky, I've missed you. Come on out and say hello...
Urr... uggg... errr...
I'm calling you out, brother...
Keep it up and I just might make you my Queen for a night or two.
You want a queen? Got one right here.
I knew it. He's finally retiring.
I've been waiting on this day for ten thousand years.
You work your ass off for ten thousand years, hurting people, helping others hurt people, then you get a decision like that.
And he's dead serious.
It's just such a slap in the face.
Um, excuse me, we're having a private conversation here.
Yeah, get out of here! Beat it!
That's what I thought!
Could you concentrate for five seconds?
I am concentrating. Where can we rule?
What do you think about... Earth?
We could create our own hell there.
You saying we go up there and kill everyone?
Eventually, Cassius. But first we corrupt as many as we can so that when we do destroy them...
...their damned souls will be ours.
It's our time, brother.
"Let the sin begins"  that was a good one.
Well, we must get people sinning if we want to fill up our New Hell. How are things going down at City Hall?
I lowered the drinking age to ten.
Brilliant. This is so much fun. I never want it to end.
Why should it end? Who's gonna stop us?
Hello, Cassius.
All right. Let me out.
You know, New Hell really only needs one new Satan.
You mother...
Thank you, Nicky. Cause now I'm gonna bust Adrian's head wide open.
I was going to let you out, eventually, Cassius. I swear.
No!
Don't do it!
ADRIAN!
You shouldn't have come here.
Please, get out of my mind!
Adrian, you gotta come back to Hell. Dad's sick.
He's sick?
Yeah, he needs souls to live. When you guys left, you broke the gates. We gotta get the gates burning again before he dies.
He should have thought of that before he denied me my birthright.
Well maybe you should go back and talk it over with him.
How about this? I stay here enjoying my Schnapps and you go back.
Of course I can. Drink or she dies. Unlike you, she won't come back from where she's going.
Let her go.
I hear a train coming. Drink.
Welcome to the party. It's so nice to see all of you here.
Hey, that's Dad's throne! How did Adrian get that? Is Dad okay?
Little Nicky.
Adrian, I'm asking you nicely, in the name of all that is good: release my friends and get in the flask.
Is this a joke?
No. It's the inner light. And with it we can defeat anything you've got.
Now will you get in the flask?
Absolutely not.
You don't have to drown that fella, Spanky. You already scared him half to death. He didn't know who he was fucking with.
But you do. What does that say about you, Ray? What does that say about me? I've given you a lot of leeway over the years on account of your father. But he didn't last long enough to teach you the meaning of the word respect so I guess I'm gonna have to school you myself.
Come on, Spank, I'm just trying to get by here. You remember how it was when you were starting out.
What's that, some of your bathtub brew?
Puerto Rican rum. See for yourself.
Where'd you get this?
Comes up the Mississippi. I can get more. A lot more. I was thinking about going into business for myself, but under the circumstances, I'd be willing to take on a partner.
I'm interested. Keep talking.
All I need is the front money and a truck. I could be back in two, three days tops if I had somebody to share the driving.
If you fuck me on this one, I'll spare no expense.
Understood.
Alright, Ray, you've got a deal. Pick your man and get going.
I'll take the little choirboy, if you don't mind.
If I was you, I'd want somebody who can handle himself in a tight spot.
I just want somebody who won't put a bullet in my back once the truck is full.
How you doing? We're looking for Slim.
You found him.
Man, that music is hot. What goes on down there, Slim?
That's NatchezundertheHill.
Blacks welcome there?
Green's the only color that matters under the hill. They got gambling, girls. You oughta check it out.
Maybe we will. Nice meeting you.
What's your name?
Me? Willie Long.
What are you in for, Willie?
That's a long story...
Goldmouth? They say he was born out back behind the shithouse. That's what they say.
You all been here a long time. Doesn't anybody ever escape from this place?
They run but they never get too far.
What's the Boom Boom Room?
That's my joint. The swinginest nightclub in town.
Last night? What are you talking about, Ray?
I'm talking about old Satchmo nearly blew the roof off the joint.
Alright Willie, I think I got everything. I'll talk to Dillard, see if I can get up to the infirmary and check up on you. Make sure they're changing your diapers regular.
They'll be sending you up there soon enough. And not just for a visit, neither.
I slipped in a couple of bottles of my latest batch. Help wash down all them pills they'll be giving you.
Couple years back, Cookie made it clear to Greenville.
Greenville, that the nearest town?
Hey, Ray, you ever been to the Cotton Club?
Sure I've been to the Cotton Club. It's pretty sweet. But it don't hold a candle to the Boom Boom Room. That's where the real action is.
Hey, Ray, what's the name of that nightclub of yours?
You mean the BoomBoom Room?
That's it. The BoomBoom Room. Sure would like to see that place when you get it up and running.
You should have come by last night, Radio. You woulda had yourself some fun.
Apparently, your sister died.
Jenny?
No, it says Marleen here.
Appreciate it.
Anybody else need anything read?
Hey, Ray, Goldmouth don't believe me. Ain't it so they got trains up in New York City that run under the streets?
They're called subways. A nickel will take you from one end of Manhattan to the other. Helluva ride, too.
Who?
Satchmo.
Besides, why bother with bootlegging when we got us a clear cut case of murder?
Excuse me, sheriff. As we explained to your associate here, there's been a mistake. We didn't kill anybody. Now, as for the bootlegging, we happen to work for a very important man in New York.
Mr. Johnson is very well connected. If you were to let us go, I guarantee he would show you his appreciation, if you know what I mean.
Are you offering me a bribe?
I'm just trying to pay the toll on the road to justice.
You may be able to buy your way out of trouble up in New York City, but down here we take murder seriously.
Yeah, it's getting late. I could sure use a bath.
That's a real nice watch you got there, sir. Fancy old thing even plays a little tune.
Yeah, it's special. They don't make 'em like this anymore.
Sure don't. Mind if I ask where you got it?
Why, my wife gave it to me on our anniversary some years back.
Must have been some time ago. Maybe forty years?
Something like that, yes.
She give you that scar, too?
I oughta shoot you for that comment, boy.
Like you shot Winston Hancock?
I'm gonna work this man's brains out the back of his head.
Shoot him, Wilkins!
That watch was the only thing my daddy ever gave me. It meant the world to me.
Goddamn it, Wilkins, would you please just shoot the nigger!
He shoots me, I swear I'll take you with me! I just want to hear you say it.
Lemonade?
I prefer bourbon.
I'm sorry, I don't keep any liquor in the house.
Well, fortunately, I carry my own.
Hunting's been pretty good on the farm the last few years. It's one of the perks of the job. If you're interested, tomorrow I could show you some of my favorite spots.
You don't have to twist my arm. Say now, that gumbo has quite a kick.
Thank you, Claude. That'll be all for tonight.
If you don't mind my saying, you seem mighty familiar with your house boy.
I believe in treating the convicts with respect, if that's what you mean.
Respect? Well, isn't that progressive.
If somebody deserves respect, Mr. Pike, they receive it from me, convict or no convict.
What's going on here?
I'm afraid I'm gonna have to teach this uppity nigger a lesson in manners.
He's crazy. Don't listen to him, Wilkins.
Do you realize what your saying, Gibson?
Is there any truth to what he's saying, Pike?
What difference does it make? Natchez was better off without Winston Hancock! Who cares if a couple of no account bootleggers went to jail for his killing? At least the state of Mississippi got 40 years of cheap labor out of the deal!
Is everyone here?
Hey, where's Claude? I don't see Claude!
Stay calm, Ray. We'll find him. Claude! Has anyone seen Claude?
He must still be in there.
Wait for the firemen!
It'll be too late.
You can't go in there, Ray! You'll never make it!
I'm going in for him. He'd do the same for me.
Mama?
Rayford!
What are you doing here, mama?
I heard some things so I went to see Spanky Johnson. He told me what happened and gave me some money to get down here. What happened to your face?
Don't worry about that. Hey, fellas, this here is my mama. These are some of my friends. That's Willie, there's Poker Face, Radio, Cookie, Goldmouth, Biscuit, Jangle Leg.
Rayford, I wanted so much more for you than this.
Don't cry, mama. This place ain't so bad as it looks. Sure, we work hard, but there's plenty fresh air and sunshine... And you know something else, I've taken to going to church regular. They got services every Sunday right there in the mess hall.
Don't you lie to me, Rayford. You still have your daddy's watch? Well, this is all I can give you. I wish it was more.
I can't take that, mama.
Don't argue with me. You need it more than I do. I know how a little money can help in a place like this.
I can't believe this. I always said I'd never end up like this. I thought I'd make something of myself, do something with my life. You know, be successful. Have a big house, a family. Now I'm gonna end up just like daddy.
Don't say that, Rayford. Don't ever say that. He gave up hope. That's where you gotta be different.
They gave me life, mama.
I gave you life. And they can't take it away from you. Remember that. You'll get outta here someday. I believe that. You gotta believe it, too.
Why do I get the feeling when you say some time, you mean some time.
I was already here a good many years when they came in in 1932.
1932? That's like, that's like...
Sixtyfive years ago. They always said the farm couldn't hold 'em forever. Looks like you're finally free, boys.
Ray's special recipe. He always had exacting standards where the hooch was concerned.
What were they, bootleggers?
Old man Wilkins' never came out of that bathroom. Died right there on the crapper.
Just like Elvis.
Of course nobody believed Ray and Claude.
It's alright for a man to cry once in awhile. Just don't make a habit of it.
Hey, Willie, what was Claude's plan, anyway?
Nothing to it, really. Claude figured they could steal a couple of bodies from the morgue. They got a couple of crackers working there don't know their asses from their elbows. Then they was gonna set fire to the infirmary and make it look like those bodies was them that got stuck inside. Claude figured during the commotion, it wouldn't be too hard to slip onto one of the fire trucks and hang tight until it rolled right on out of here in the morning.
Hey, the dude's holdin'.
Come on, oldtimer, hook the brothers up.
Hell of a way to get out. Heard they burned up in that fire yesterday.
I seen the bodies before they sealed 'em up. Them fellas sizzled up good. Looked like some shit from the X Files. Damn, that shit's nasty.
So Ray and Claude got their pardons, right?
No, they didn't get their pardons, you dumb shit! If they'd got their pardons way back then, we wouldn't be burying them today, would we?
Oh, right. Well, why didn't they get those pardons?
That musta messed 'em up pretty bad.
What happened to 'em after that, Willie?
Man, you really bummed me out. That's a terrible story. Nigger, you crying?
Hell, no! I just got something in my eye.
What do you think about that?
I think that old man lost his marbles about a hundred years ago. Come on, let's get this over with.
Maybe I oughta eat your corn bread.
My corn bread? Oh no, my friend. I love corn bread.
So it don't exist.
Just because it's in my mind, Goldmouth, don't mean it ain't real. Everything worth anything starts with a dream.
You mean Louis Armstrong?
He's a good friend of mine. Drops by the club whenever he's in town.
That's right, fellas. Catch any cab heading uptown. All the drivers know Ray's BoomBoom Room.
Hey, Ray...
Where am I at, man?
C'mon, Goldmouth, somebody's gotta watch the front door.
Why ain't his pick swinging?
Why ain't that pick swinging?
Too hot, huh? Well, you tell that lazy jiggaboo the state of Mississippi ain't interested in his meteorological assessments.
Listen up, jiggaboo! State of Mississippi ain't interested in your... in your... metropolitan assets!
Tell him the state of Mississippi is only interested in getting this ditch cleared by sundown.
State of Mississippi wants this ditch cleared by sundown. You got that?!
He's from New York City. That one, too.
New York. That's up north, ain't it? They'll find we do things different down here.
Looks like we got a couple of live ones. How long these boys in for?
Judge gave 'em the long ride.
Life, huh? They step outta line again, we'll shorten up that sentence real fast.
We lost yesterday on accounta the rain. That means we gotta make up for it today, so put your backs to it.
You heard the boss! Let's move!
All in, boss!
Move it out.
Movin' it out, boss.
We don't need no fences at Camp 8, boss.
That's right. We don't need no fences, we have the gun line. It runs from shack to shack clear around the yard. You are now inside the gun line...
Alright, listen up! I want every man lined up out here in the yard on the double! Let's move it!
You heard what the man said! Move it!
What is that?
Creamed chip beef on toast. Except we're outta beef, so I had to improvise.
Can't I get one of those steaks you got grilling back there?
Those are for trusties, unless you got thirty cents or two packs of cigs.
At least he didn't kill Santa Claus with his bare hands.
You killed Santa Claus?
Alright, well, let's say you make it to Greenville. What's there, anyway?
Grandma Dodi's Pork Rib Joint.
You got your own nightclub?
Well, not yet. It's still in the planning stages.
Ray, my man, this steak is like butter!
Made just for you, Cookie.
How about some steak sauce?
No problem. Oh, boy!
How you doin'?
I'm all right.
You ever done time before?
You kidding? I've been in and out of prison my entire life. Mostly in. I'm hardcore.
Then you won't have no problem making the adjustment. You need anything, help of any kind, gimme a holler. Name's Jangle Leg.
'Preciate it. Claude.
Soft and supple. Like a lady's.
I try to moisturize regularly.
Don't I know you?
I don't think so.
Sure I do. What's your name again?
Claude Banks.
Claude Banks. How could I forget that? You've got to remember me. Ray Gibson. We went to high school together.
You went to Monroe?
That's right! Good old Monroe...
Here, this belongs to you. It was empty when I found it.
Good old Monroe.
What I want to know is what happened to your cush between the time that you got up from the table and when I caught up with you in the Johnny?
I don't see where that's any of your business.
Did those two muscle heads shake you down? Swear I've seen them down at the track with Sureshot Riley. That's it, ain't it? A gambling debt.
Where they taking us, anyway?
Probably to Spanky's headquarters down at the pier.
Good, I'm looking forward to meeting this Spanky. Give me a chance to straighten out this whole mess.
I can't wait to see that. You slay me, man.
What are they gonna do to us?
You? Dine and ditch, right? Over ten bucks? You're probably looking at a thumb.
A thumb? What do you mean, like cut it off? For ten bucks? That include the tip?
Come on, daddyo. You haven't said a word since we started. Least you could do is make some friendly conversation.
Look, man, I don't want friendly conversation. I don't want to be your friend. I've seen your friends and I don't like them. I just want to do this thing and get back to New York in time to start my job.
Start your job? What kind of job?
Well, if you must know, bank teller at First Federal of Manhattan. I'm responsible for keeping track of hundreds, occasionally thousands of dollars.
That's some long green.
Damn straight, it is. I got my own set of keys because I'm supposed to open up. So if I ain't there 8 a.m. Monday morning, there's gonna be hell to pay.
What?
Nothing.
No, tell me what's so funny.
I don't know. Bank teller. Sounds like ladies work to me.
Well, maybe I should dig around in other people's clothes for money. It's obviously been highly successful for you.
Hey, you'd be surprised what you find in other people's pockets. Just gotta avoid them deadbeat bank tellers. Get you every time.
I didn't start out to be a bank teller. I was gonna be a ballplayer. Even had an offer to play short for the Newark Eagles.
Why didn't you take it?
The Negro League don't pay so good. And you're always on the road. That don't wash with Daisy.
You gave up baseball to be a bank teller? I can't latch on to that.
At some point a man's got to get serious about his future. I'm sure you have no idea what I'm talking about.
You're talking about giving up baseball to be a bank teller.
Bank teller's just a start. I got plans. Real plans. Not opening some ZoomBoom Room. This time next year I'll be a loan officer.
A loan officer?
That's right, a loan officer.
So you mean, if I needed some jack to get my nightclub up and running, I'd have to hype some square like you?
Uhhuh.
How would I get a loan, anyway?
You need collateral.
Like this?
That thing? Who'd you steal it from?
My daddy gave me this watch.
Yeah? Who'd he steal it from?
My daddy is dead so watch your mouth. You can say what you want about me, but don't be dragging my daddy into it. This watch means the world to me. Solid gold. Keeps perfect time.
Looks like a fake to me. Loan denied!
Ah, go chase yourself. I'll take my business elsewhere. And for future reference, you are no longer welcome at Ray's BoomBoom Room.
There is no BoomBoom Room.
When there is, you can forget about it. And I swear to God, you ever talk about my daddy again I'm gonna kick your banktelling, loandenying ass, you got me?
Oooh...
I think I liked you better when you kept your trap shut.
Maybe we oughta find another place.
Are you kidding? Tell me you don't want a slice of that pie right over there.
I must have left my appetite outside, which is where I think we ought to be right now.
You mean this sign? The one that says "No Coloreds Allowed." That's a good question. Ray, how come we missed the sign?
Look, ma'am, we've been driving all day. We'd just like to purchase one of those pies and we'll be on our way.
Thanks for backing me up here, Uncle Claude.
Don't Uncle Claude me. You get a load of those crackers? Couldn't be a mouthful of teeth among the bunch of 'em. Why you want to pick a fight with people like that for?
You're soft.
What'd you say?
I said you're soft.
Hey, man, don't ever call me that.
I call it like I see it, and what I see is definitely soft.
Alright. You want some pie?
Yeah, I want some pie.
Okay then, I'm gonna walk over to that counter and get us some fucking pie.
Nice meeting you? You've been here before, haven't you?
What gave you that idea?
Oh, I don't know, maybe because our lives depend on it, I just sort of thought you knew what you were doing!
Don't get all agitated on me. I bought a bottle of rum from a couple of dudes, I heard 'em talking...
Let me get this straight. We drove all the way down to Klan country 'cause you heard a couple of guys talking?
What are you complaining about? It worked out. Everything's cool. Now, come on, let's head down there and see what's shaking. We deserve a little reward.
Reward?
There are people down there having fun. I want to be one of them. I want you to be one of them. On Monday you can be a bank teller if you want, but tonight you're a bootlegger with a truck full of Puerto Rican rum and a fistful of cash.
Hey, Ray. I've been looking for you.
Here I am.
Guess we better get going, huh?
Still got that ten dollars?
Well, not exactly. See, I met this girl. Real nice girl. Godfearing girl. Her name's Sylvia.
That jelly you were talking to right here?
She's in a tight spot. Her mama needs this operation, and they ain't got the money for it. Their church took up a collection but they were still short...
So you made a generous contribution.
What can I say? When the spirit moves me.
That was mighty charitable of you, Claude. Looks like we both got fucked tonight.
What are you talking about?
While you were upstairs doing God's work, I was getting jacklegged by a fool with four threes.
You lost all our money in a card game?
He even got my daddy's watch.
Fuck that cheapass watch  I mean, how the hell are we gonna get home without any money?
We've still got 36 cases of rum. That's better than money.
I think he's hurt pretty bad.
He's dead.
Oh, man, I've never seen a dead body before!
What do you think you're doing?! The man's been dead for two seconds! Don't you have any respect?
It ain't here.
What ain't there?
My daddy's watch. This is the dude I was telling you about 
Yeah, nobody puts 'em away like old what'shisname.
Winston. His name's Winston.
Come on, Ray, better get Winston back to the truck.
Would you look at that, Ray. Winston up and died on us.
Hell with him then. If he can't share the driving, he can't ride in the truck.
Man, this is gonna delay everything. Spanky's gonna be pissed.
Spanky's gonna be pissed? Poor Spanky. Fuck Spanky! What the hell kind of a name is Spanky, anyway? You're responsible for this situation. I blame you for everything. If it wasn't for you, I'd be home having a hot meal right now.
If it wasn't for me, you'd be washing up on the beach at Coney Island right now. "I need all my thumbs and fingers for praying and doing good."
Life?! How long is life? We were just walking back to the truck. We didn't do nothing! Fuck life!
Life?! What's life mean? There's no way I can do life. I got a job starts Monday morning!
I wouldn't do that if I was you.
Shut up. It's too damn hot. What do you know, anyway?
Why do you think they call him Jangle Leg?
Somebody just told me he wins the threelegged race every year.
So?
He does it all by himself.
This fork is filthy.
The fork is the least of your worries, Claude.
What a second, you've been in here since you were thirteen?
What about you, Radio?
I kinda lost track of how many people we killed that night. Must have been 15 or twenty  not counting women and children. It was a real bloodbath. All that screaming...
Pack of lies. Don't listen to him. We didn't kill nobody. We were railroaded. And we gonna prove that.
He just blocked it out. Nigger's crazy. He's the one who did all the stabbing. He's capable of some heinous shit. How 'bout him down there?
No, man. I want you to have it.
Wait up there, Claude. You give that guy your corn bread and the next thing you know you'll be ironing his shirts and clipping his toenails.
Cookie drew me a map to Greenville.
So?
You know what I'm saying.
Yeah, I know what your saying. And I'm saying if you made it that far, they'd be watching every train that pulls out of that station.
That's why we won't take the train. Cookie showed me where there's a farm house. They got a boat there.
What do you know about boats? I bet you can't even swim.
What I know about boats is they take you to freedom. Come on, man. I think we can do this.
Why are you always talking about we? There is no we. There is a me, there is a you. But there is no we between us.
You want out of this place, don't you? Don't tell me you're starting to like it here.
No, I don't like it here. Look around. There's nothing but ass. Male ass! Balls and ass! Believe you me, I'm getting out of here.
What does that mean?
Forget it.
I'm not gonna forget it. What does that mean? If you've got a plan, I think I have a right to know about it. I told you my plan.
Getting a map from a chubby chef named Cookie? Dragging our asses through the swamps in search of some wormeaten boat? That ain't a plan, that's a vacation for two in the hole. When you've got a map to New York City, you get back to me.
Maynard Banks, Esquire. Attorney at law.
Gimme that. That doesn't concern you.
I'm sure it don't.
What's up, Ray?
Claude.
Sure is hot today. Think it'll rain later?
What do you want, Claude?
What do I want? What makes you think I want something?
My daddy always said when a man starts talking about the weather keep you hand on your wallet.
Your daddy must have been a helluva guy, a deep man, a wise man. Sure wish I could have met him 
Cut the bullshit. What do you want, Claude?
You still got that map?
Yeah.
Well, if you're still thinking about booking it, I want in. I think we can make it.
We? Did I hear you say we? As I recall, you're the one who said there is no we. Guess we got some bad news in that letter, huh?
Look, my cousin Maynard is a lawyer. He filed an appeal on my behalf 
On your behalf. What happened to we?
The appeal was denied. Then Daisy went and fell for Maynard. They're engaged to be married, can you believe that?
Well, let's just think about that for a moment. He's a successful lawyer up in New York City and you're down here with a bright future in the cotton picking business. Eeny, meeny, miney, Maynard.
Come on, man. Don't shut me out. I'm telling you, you and me, that map, we can go places.
You know what, Claude? This whole time we've been down here, you've done nothing but think about yourself, acting like this whole thing is my fault. That plan with your cousin, did that include me?
No.
At least you're honest for once. So now you want to be my friend? Well, let me tell you something, Claudemy shitdon'tstinkBanks. You got a lot to learn about friendship.
Does that mean I'm in?
I don't think so, Claude. You'd just slow me down. We'd have to stop every five minutes so you could polish your silverware. There's no way around it, you're soft.
What'd you say?
I said you're soft.
Don't call me that. You know I hate it when you call me that.
You did it, man! You got us out! Next stop, New York City!
New York's a long way's off. Let's just keep moving, okay?
I know these trees all look the same, but I'm getting an awful familiar vibration from this one right here. You sure you know where we're going?
Absolutely. The map is very clear.
Let me take a look at that map.
You call this a map? What was Cookie smoking when he drew this?
Cookie didn't draw it. I did.
You drew this?!
I knew you wouldn't come if I didn't have a map.
That gripes my soul, man. We're out here in the middle of nowhere. There is shit nibbling at my balls! Don't tell me you don't know where we're going!
Come on, Ray, time to go!
I'm stuck!
Don't mention it.
Hell, you'd probably be half way to New York by now...
I'm serious, man. Don't mention it. Ever.
Keep it together, Claude. You wake up the man, he'll shoot you for sure.
He'd be doing me a favor. I'm getting outta here one way or the other! Goddamn rats and shit! Fuck!
All right, man, just settle down. We'll get outta here, Claude. We'll get outta here real soon.
How the fuck are we gonna do that, Ray?!
We'll just get off at the next stop.
Say what?
That's right, we'll get off at the next stop. The train's pulling into the station right now.
The hell you talking about? What train?
We're in the Bronx, my man. Hundred and Sixty First Street.
Hundred and Sixty First Street? That's Yankee Stadium.
Hell, yes, Yankee Stadium. Bombers are playing a doubleheader against the Red Sox.
Red Sox... Who's on the mound?
I don't know. Who do you want?
Allie Reynolds. He's my boy.
Sure, it says Allie Reynolds right here in the program. He's warming up right now. Man, we're so close to the field I need cleats. How'd you get such good seats?
I know people.
They must be the right people. Whoa, there goes the hot dog man. Let's get a couple. Damn, that smells good. Nothing like a ballpark hot dog, huh?
You get ketchup?
Ketchup? Who eats ketchup on a hot dog? Mustard's what you want.
I can't eat it with mustard.
Give me back that hot dog. I'll eat it myself.
What am I gonna eat?
You can starve to death for all I care. Now shut up, the game's about to start.
Hey, man, is Babe Ruth in the lineup today?
Of course, he's in the lineup. There he goes right there. Hey, Babe...!
What you're dealing with here is a complete lack of talent.
I'm sick of watching Camp 12 win the championship. Every year they get to roast the victory pig and we get dick. This year I want that pig.
You want to hit? Yo, Claude. Give Can't Get Right a shot.
Him?
Can't be worse than any of these other fools.
All right, grab the bat. Let's see what you can do.
Judge must have money riding on the championship.
Don't matter who Camp 12 puts on the mound. All I know is when this season's over Camp 8's gonna have pork chops.
It's amazing what Ray here can do with a couple of pounds of potato skins and some molasses.
So, Blocker, what do you think of our boy?
What about us? Don't forget to mention us.
We're like his handlers. He can't function without us.
God may have given it, but Claude Banks spotted it and nurtured it.
Damn straight. I expect those Pittsburgh Crawdads to remember that.
Crawfords.
Whatever.
It's a pardon from the governor.
Let me see that.
Let it go, Claude.
I'm not gonna let it go. The man needs to explain himself. Makin' promises.
You show them Crawfords how to play ball.
Make 'em throw strikes.
One of the new kids said they're farming those acres just north of the swamp. He said he saw a crop duster flying around the place.
I'm not in the mood right now, Ray.
He said they keep it parked out behind the barn. Can't be that hard to fly a plane. Lots of people do it.
They're called pilots! I'm serious, Ray. I'm not in the mood for one of your stupid, fuckedup plans right now.
I don't see you coming up with any plans.
My plan is on his way to Pittsburgh right now. That congenital idiot just got himself a pardon signed by the governor thanks to us, but we can't seem to do nothing for ourselves. Don't you feel a little disgusted right now?
Crop duster.
I ain't getting in no airplane with you. I'm finally wrapping my mind around the concept. They threw us in this shithole for life. Don't you get it, Ray? We're gonna die here! Might as well head up to the cemetery, pick a plot and start digging.
My daddy died in prison. He gave up hope and hung himself. What you're talking about is the same damn thing. That ain't how I'm going.
Maybe you're fooling yourself, Ray. Maybe you're just a chip off the old block.
Take that back or we ain't friends no more, Claude Banks.
Here's a news flash, Ray. We never were friends. We've just been stuck together for 12 years. It's been nothing but bad luck since the moment I ran into you. Every time I look at you I get sick to my stomach thinking about what my life could have been if I'd never bumped into Ray Gibson.
Better watch yourself Claude, before you say something you regret.
The only thing I regret is the day I met you.
Well, if that's the way it is...
That's the way it is.
Then I have nothing left to say to you.
You're a sucker. I'd have taken that deal.
Excuse me? Are you talking to me?
I'd have knocked you off those bottles, put a bullet in your ass and be half way to New York right now.
After all these years of blissful silence, I almost forgot how annoying the sound of your voice can be.
I hope you don't think I owe you anything. Because I don't owe you a damn thing.
I didn't do if for you, anyway. I just ain't no bootlicking trusty, that's all.
I was sorry to hear about your mama passing.
That was five years ago.
I know, but since we're talking, I thought I'd mention it.
We're not talking, you're talking, and doing too damn much of it, if you ask me.
What?!
You sure looked funny running for those pies, bullets flying all around you.
Bullets weren't the problem. That pie was too hot. Burned my tongue.
You and Wilkins sure are getting chummy. You two planning on going steady, or something?
He's just a lonely old man. He likes to talk.
Hey, I'm a lonely old man. I like to talk, too. So why don't we start by talking about what kind of a plan you're working on?
I'm not working on a plan.
You can't fool me, Claude. I know you got something brewing.
Goodnight, Ray.
What the hell are you doing?
Don't touch that car.
Wilkins' driver's got the flu, so he asked me to fill in for him.
You haven't driven in 40 years, you ain't even got a license. Man's taking his life in his hands, putting you behind the wheel! Where you taking him?
Greenville. We're picking up the new Superintendent at the bus station.
Damn, it was getting hot in there.
What the hell are you doing in that trunk?!
You didn't think I was gonna let you escape alone, did you?
I ain't escaping! We're picking up the new super just like I told you.
Then you're lucky I came along. Doesn't take a visionary to spot a golden opportunity like this. Now help me out of this trunk.
You ain't getting out of that trunk.
Come on, man, I'm starting to cramp up here. We have the chance right here, right now, I say we go!
Go where, Ray?
Back to New York for starters.
And what will we do when we get there? I'm sixtyfive years old, Ray. So are you. What are we gonna do out here? Get married, have kids, settle down? That boat sailed without us, man.
This boat's gonna sail without you, too. I don't care if I last one day out here. At least it's one day of freedom. Now gimme those keys.
Forget about that. You run if you want to, but you're not taking this car.
Claude, man, I'm serious. Give me those keys.
I ain't spending a month in the hole so you can take a joy ride.
Don't make me take them away from you.
Hey, there's Wilkins!
You sure it was him?
Some faces you just don't forget. Warren Pike's is one of 'em.
I don't like it, I don't like it one bit. We shoulda taken that car when we had the opportunity. We'd be half way to New York by now.
We'd be in the hole by now. Hey, man, you're peeing on my shoe.
I know. Simultaneously, they shake and zip. Claude bends down and picks up a bowl of gumbo, placing it on a tray next to an identical one.
Don't shoot, sir. I can deal with this. Ray, buddy, you don't want to shoot this white man. See, you do that, they'll kill you for sure. And it's not that I like you or anything, but I've kinda gotten used to having you around.
He's got my daddy's watch, Claude. I always knew whoever took that watch killed Winston Hancock. And that was you, Mr. Pike.
No, I'm gonna kill him 
No, believe me, I'm gonna kill him!
I can't do it.
That's because you're soft. Gimme the gun.
What'd you say?
I said you're soft.
Don't call me soft, I hate it when you call me that.
Why don't he just tell 'em the truth?
He knows nobody wants to hear the truth.
Nurse Humphries was checking my prostate this morning. I got an erection.
An erection, huh? Haven't had one of those in a while.
Tell me about it. Scared me at first. Then, before I could figure out what to do with it, it was gone. Imagine my disappointment.
Sure would like to see the house that Ruth built one more time.
Well, Ruth shoulda built it a little better. Damn thing's falling to pieces. Gonna hurt somebody.
What do you expect? It's almost as old as we are.
They oughta tear that shit down and ship them Yankees cross the river to Jersey.
Remember what that place looked like on a sunny spring day? More beautiful than any church I was ever in.
Over to the morgue and up the hill to the cemetery. Never thought I'd admit it, Claude, but you were right.
'Course I was right. About what?
You're the one who said that boneyard's the only way we're getting out of here. We're gonna join all the rest of 'em soon enough. Jangle Leg, Biscuit, Goldmouth, Poker Face, Cookie, Radio  yes sir, pick a plot and start digging...
Are you trying to tell me after all this time you finally have a plan for busting out of here?
Shh! Is that so hard to believe?
Don't tell me, I don't want to hear it. It's probably all fucked up, anyway.
You don't want to hear it, you don't want to hear it. There's no shame in that.
It's too late for plans.
Never thought I'd hear Ray Gibson say that. Hell with you then. You'd only slow me down anyway.
I can't eat this.
Why the hell not?
I saw that hot dog guy in the bathroom urinating. He didn't wash his hands.
Just put some mustard on it and eat it.
You didn't get ketchup?
Gimme that damn thing.
Hell of a day for a ballgame, huh, Claude?
Hell of a day, Ray. Yankees are on fire.
No, this ain't gonna work either. It's half chocolate, half vanilla.
So?
They're touching.
If you don't eat that ice cream right now, I'm gonna strangle you until you are completely dead.
Yeah? You and what army?
Next thing, you're gonna be complaining about the seats.
Well, if you must know, they could be closer.
Damn, I shoulda let Spanky Johnson drown you in the river when I had the chance.
I know you're not talking to me...
I'm sorry, he's on medication...
I've never seen you in here before.
That's because I've never been here before.
I'm Sylvia. What's your name?
Can't you remember your own name?
I know it begins with a "C"...
Well, Mr. "C", how about buying a girl a drink? Two bourbons.
I really shouldn't. I gotta keep an eye on my friend.
He looks like he can take care of himself.
Claude. That's my name. Claude. That's never happened before.
You're cute. You have any money, Claude?
Ten dollars. But I need it to get home.
Why would you want to go home? It's so early.
For the kind of money they charge here, you'd think they could hire somebody to actually wash the dishes.
Claude. Here's to your new job down at the bank. I always knew you'd make something of yourself.
Know what I'm going to buy with my first pay check?
Season tickets to the Yankees. Right there on the first base line. What's wrong, baby?
I was hoping you were gonna say an engagement ring, Claude.
Engagement ring!
That's what respectable folks do. Get a job, get married, start having babies. That's what you want, isn't it?
Sure it is. I just don't see any reason to rush into things. Damn, look at this shirt. I'll be right back.
Come on, honey, let's get out of here.
But I'm having a good time...
Did you go see my cousin Maynard like I asked you in my letter?
Of course I did. He said he'd file an appeal right away. You didn't tell me he was so good looking.
Yeah, that side of the family has all the looks and none of the brains. I hope he don't mess things up.
He seemed like a pretty good lawyer to me. His offices take up an entire floor of that big, new building on 125th Street, and he was using all these words I never heard before. He even offered me a job.
A job, huh? Well, that's nice, real nice. You won't have to work long. I'll be back soon enough. After I start work at First Federal Bank of Manhattan, I'll be keeping you in style. Everything will get back to normal again. That's a promise.
Listen, Claude, Maynard wanted to know if he should file the appeal on behalf of your friend, too.
Ray Gibson? No, no. He's the reason I'm in here, Daisy. For all I know, he's got a record a mile long. I got a better shot of getting out of here on my own. You tell Maynard to think about me, concentrate on me. Understand?
Sure, Claude, whatever you say.
I got it... boss.
He don't sound like he's from 'round here.
I don't see no wedding ring, Banks. Conjugal visits are for married prisoners only.
You think you could make an exception just this once, boss? She came all the way down from New York.
I don't need the Baptists on my back, but I suppose I could issue a temporary marriage license for a nominal fee.
Craddock!... Williams... Henshaw!... Banks!
Here!
Comfortable?
As a pair of furlined bedroom slippers, boss.
We'll see what those slippers feel like after, say, 24 hours. And if you step down off them bottles  if one toe so much as touches the dirt  one of these boys is gonna shoot you dead. Let's see. We need a special man for this job.
Damn dentures slipping again. Everything falls apart when you grow old, eh, Claude? Time sure marches on.
Yes, boss.
You know, I'm fixing on retiring at the end of the summer, gonna try to enjoy what few years I have left. What do you think of this place? It's one of those new retirement communities down on the Gulf.
I apologize, Claude. That was rude of me.
That's alright, boss. Takes a lot more than a colorful brochure to hurt my feelings.
You been on the farm for quite a spell, haven't you?
Over forty years now. Me and Ray Gibson out there.
Forty years. That's a long time for any crime, even murder.
It's a hell of a lot longer when you're innocent.
Half the men in this prison swear they're innocent. Don't you think that's kinda funny?
You have to forgive me if I don't laugh.
You know I trust you, Claude.
Yes, sir.
I'll be right back.
Goodnight, Mr. Wilkins. Mr. Pike.
Goodnight, Claude.
Cool it, Ray. You're gonna get us in a lot of trouble.
He's right, Gibson. Put down the gun and we'll work this out.
Claude, mind helping me to the bathroom?
Sure, boss.
I'm not your boss. Not anymore.
Yeah.
My name's Yvette. Sylvia sent me. You look just like she said.
She's alright, isn't she?
Oh, she's fine. She's just not coming today.
Why not?
She got married last month.
Married?
Real nice guy, too. Trumpet player. They moved down to New Orleans.
She always said that if you were on the outside...
But I'm not on the outside. I'm in here.
I know she's sorry she won't be seeing you anymore. Anyway, she wanted me to take care of you.
Take care of me?
You know, go to the tonk or whatever.
I'm too old for you. Besides, I'm not much in the mood.
Want me to come back some other time?
Nice girl like you don't belong in a place like this. But if you talk to Sylvia, tell her old Claude said congratulations.
Oh, no, Ray. Not tonight. Spanky's not happy with you.
Is Spanky here?
No, but...
Then what's the problem?
Do yourself a favor and find another place where they let you in the front door.
But this is where the action is and I have to be where the action is. Look, when your old lady wanted those alligator shoes, didn't I come through for you? Ain't she stepping in style now?
Yeah...
Well, alright then. What do you think about this new tie?
Sharp.
I look good tonight. And I feel lucky, too.
We get the games on the radio sometimes.
We played down in Jackson yesterday. Heard a rumor you've got a boy up here who can hit the ball a ton.
You probably mean Can't Get Right. That's him over there.
Can't Get Right? That's the kid's name? Can I talk to him?
You can try, but you won't get too far. Why you interested?
Crawford's are always looking for new talent.
Maybe you didn't notice, but this is a prison.
There are ways around that. Right sergeant?
Yo, Blocker, what's going on here?
Kid's getting out. I got him a pardon.
Yeah, but what about me and Ray? I didn't see our names on that pardon. You said you were gonna put in a good word for us.
I did, Claude. I mentioned you. I mentioned you both. But the fact is, pardons don't come cheap. The kid can hit. What can you do?
Look, I am truly sorry about this. I'd like to help you...
But you can't.
At least the kid's getting out. Isn't this what you wanted?
Biscuit, when you're done with Jangle Leg, you think you could squeeze me in?
Thought you'd never ask. Biscuit needs some gravy.
I'm talking about a haircut.
Cost you a pair of nylons.
Don't take it so hard, Biscuit. She don't mean nothin' to him.
Hell with him. It ain't that.
These are free papers.
What am I gonna do out there, Ray? I can't go home to my mama like this. I'll get the strap for sure.
Come on, Biscuit, this is good news. Your mama's gonna break down in tears when you show up on her doorstep.
It's 1945. It's a different world now.
Not for me, it ain't.
Well you can't stay here, Biscuit. This ain't no life for a man. Any one of these fellas would give their right arm to be in your shoes. I sure know I would.
She'll be fine. She just had a bit of a shock.
Is Mae Rose okay?
She's doing just fine.
And the baby?
He's a big one.
It's a boy! Well, let's get a look at him.
They ain't men, Mae Rose. They're convicts. And nigger convicts to boot. Can you say nigger?
Nagger?
No, nigger.
Nigger.
That's my girl.
A night in the hole?
Better make it a week.
Run downstairs and give your dad a hug.
Why?
He'll be gone for his birthday.
Queer.
What did you say?
Dad said it first.
Why do we have to get up and eat with you this early?
I just thought it would be nice.
All day again?
Not all day. I'll be home after lunch.
Ryan, would you rather swim or work?
Can we really help build a house?
I brought a few of my own.
Someone stop her!
Adam, that's not true!
Yes, it is.
Would you stop being ridiculous? Your father wants Sam home as much as I do.
Nothing R, okay?
Enough for drinks, popcorn and candy!
Go tell your father we're eating.
Dad's home, already?
In the bedroom.
What are you doing in my room?
I didn't go in your room.
I locked the door! Get out! I locked the door! Get out!
There were no PG's. So I just gave them money to play games.
Can you stay for dinner?
Depends on what I'd give up on.
The door was open.
I don't know what I'm doing.
I wouldn't let Adam or Ryan see you doing it.
You're sure about this?
Yeah.
You could keep it and rent it out?
This is what he wants.
I read the letter. You read the will. He wants you to keep it. To live in it some day.
Then maybe this isn't what he wants, but this what he was hoping for. Maybe it's what I want.
Hey.
Hey.
You got a dog?
It's not ours. It's George's.
I've missed you guys.
Why?
Do you know anything about building a house?
No.
I guess I could teach you some things.
Okay.
Thanks for talking about me behind my back...useful in court.
Are you wearing eye shadow?
No.
Take it off.
Do it now!
If I walk out the door, who's gonna be here tonight for the follow through?
You don't look like you.
Either do you.
I thought I might be able to help, but it looks like you have all you can handle.
Do you like red?
I don't have a clue anymore. I wish you'd talk to him. He needs a man.
His father is a man.
A man he respects.
We've eaten.
Is Lois still here? I'm starved.
I'll make you something.
Do you think it's odd your kids don't hug you?
Should I?
It would worry me.
If I let everything that should worry me, worry me, I'd be dead from worry.
What would you be if you asked Adam and Ryan to run in now and hug you?
I'd be you.
To shave your chest?
We should take a vacation.
The biggest waste of time since television.
Do you remember anything I've said that wasn't negative?
I'd love to drive through New England in the Fall.
Sooner than the Fall.
After the kids are back in school.
Lois will stay with them. Or we can pawn them off on your parents.
I'm helping George build his house.
What?
I've been helping for the last few days. Weeks. Sam's working. I told you Sam was working. I mean, he really is.
Good. That was the plan. We couldn't stand him and George needed help.
I can't go right now.
You can't go because of Sam?
We haven't been away together for three years. What difference does a few months make?
You can't go with me because of Sam?
Sam is working at something for the first time in his life. Once in a while he even talks to me. I want to be around for that.
So am I, Robin. I'm working at something, too. I'm even talking. Do you want to be around for it?
I was talking about our marriage.
I know.
That sounds pathetic, doesn't it?
What are you doing home?
I always felt I could never marry you without first showing you what a fabulous life you cloud live despite me.
You never really trusted me.
You live a fabulous life, Robin.
Despite you.
I never asked for more.
That's the problem.
Please don't leave me.
Where are the kids?
Sam took them to a movie.
I'll be in the bedroom.
I hardly recognize you with a beard.
That was my plan...to be hardly recognizable to you as me.
I feel in love with George again.
He said he heard hammering.
Who?
What are you talking about?
I'm sixteen years old. I'm underage. How could I possibly threaten you?
What the fuck?
Everything happens for a reason. That's what my dad said.
Then you tell me, what just happened?
The payoff.
Been thinking?
No.
It'll take you like twenty, thirty minutes.
Does Alyssa know?
Nothing.
You got any weed?
You got the money?
What's your deal with Alyssa?
Don't even...I'm there.
I wasn't sure.
She wouldn't even fucking go out with until she was sixteen. I mean, that's not even a rule, just her own thing. She like figures things out on her own and then that's it.
He already knows everything about what he can't do. You can tell him not to even look at you, if you want.
I'm thinking it's too weird now.
It's just a joke. A stupid joke.
I could use the money.
You should lock your doors.
Ring the bell before you try the door.
Did Sam call to tell you he wouldn't be over this weekend?
You let him pierce his nose?
Lock the door behind you.
Where is he?
Where he always is.
What are you doing?
He doesn't answer.
He never answers.
Why does he have a lock on his door?
Because he put the lock on! Do you think I told him he could have a nose ring?! Why do you ask me everything you should ask him!? I don't know anything, anymore!
I called everyone, everywhere! You just vanished! You could be dead!
Thanks for waking me up. Picking me up. You're loud today.
You're inconsiderate and absolutely devoid of emotion!
You're the most beautiful woman I have ever known in my life.
What?
I'm not talking just physically. Even your anger is perfect.
I didn't think you'd know I went missing.
You didn't think someone from your office would call and tell me you wrecked the entire building and threatened people with a baseball bat?!
A blueprint spool.
Where have you been for a week?!
Four days. I left to think.
What did you do with your dog?
Kurt's been feeding him.
But you can't call me while you think?
I wasn't thinking. Look, I'm sorry I didn't think to call you while I thought...I think.
I need to talk to you.
Why would they tow your truck?
I was parked in day parking.
Why call me?
I'm going to tear down the shack and build my house.
You've been saying that for twenty years. While we were dating, you said it.
There's nothing anymore to stop me.
Money?
Severance pay. And I'm going to cash in my life insurance policy.
How many years did I live with your beams and boards? First in the garage, then in the living room. We're going to do it, Robin. Next year. Next year. Salvaged floorboards from a house in Pasadena. Doors from a church in New Hampshire...
I love those doors.
Where will you live?
The garage.
Look, I wasn't serious about you taking Sam, so you don't have to get into any actual construction to get out of it.
When's school over?
Friday...God, I hate the thought of him home all day.
I'll be by Saturday to pick him up.
He doesn't want to spend the weekends with you anymore.
Not for the weekend. For the summer.
You and Sam are going to live in a garage without plumbing for the summer?
The garage is plumbed. I'll put in a toilet. We'll survive.
Thank you for at least sounding sincere.
Sounding? I need help. He's cheap labor.
One of you would end up dead.
At least we'll have a house to show for it.
Forget it, really. I'll survive.
I want him with me.
No, you don't. Trust me.
Hey, hey!
I'm married.
What was I supposed to do? When you didn't show up Saturday, I tried to call. Your phone isn't working.
I don't have a phone.
I drove over and you were gone.
I can't leave the house?
Last time you were gone for a week!
Did you tell him he was spending the summer with me?
No. I was going to let you do that.
He's not spending the summer in Tahoe.
I did say he could go.
Let's go.
George 
He's not spending the entire summer with another kid in Tahoe. If he leaves, I will follow him up there and I will drag him home by his nose ring. He can hate me. You can hate me. He can try to kill me while I sleep. You can call the police. You can call your husband or your attorney, but Sam is spending the summer with me. He's my son. He's sixteen. That's it.
We're fine. Turkey sandwiches.
Well, for later then.
It makes me sad.
What?
I used to live here.
But you hated four out of the five you did.
I was here six years. And I only hated two.
Which?
The first and the last.
I don't even like turkey sandwiches. What kind of pizza?
Sam's favorite.
I was up on the roof this morning, tearing it down and it struck me as strong as anything ever has. That I'm happy today.
What have you been before today?
It was just that, maybe the way the sun struck the ocean, the sound of the waves. It was simple, whatever it was. Then I started thinking about the last time I felt this good. It's been a long time.
Do you remember?
The only time I can think of for sure, I was holding onto Sam in the ocean, saving him from the waves.
You head was pressed against my chest. I could feel your heart racing. And I remember I kissed your hair.
We have it on video! Was that when? My parents were down for his sixth birthday! I remember that.
What is it?
I'm fine. Nothing. I'll drop by your lunch tomorrow.
It's not breakfast yet.
I dreamed about your house last night.
Finished or unfinished?
It was perfect, George. Amazing. It was so real.
Didn't you once dream you could lick people well, though?
That wasn't a dream. That was Sam.
Oh...with his ear infection!
My tongue around the edge of his ear is what cured him.
Go in there and lick his attitude.
The antibiotics weren't working. It's what I believe, George.
I've been wrong a lot in my life.
Hindsight. It's like foresight without a future.
With your hands or your tongue?
You're not well.
I thought you'd be up with the sun.
My stupid back.
Do you need anything? I'll go to the pharmacy. I have some Demerol at home.
No, I'm...thanks. I took something.
Where's Sam?
He won't use my shower. I don't get it.
You brought your kids?
I kind of said that maybe they could do something. Help. I'm sorry. They really wanted to come. I really wanted to come and they wanted to be with me. I don't think they'll be too much trouble.
I'll find something that won't kill them.
Or wound. Let them keep their eyes and fingers.
You're a good mother.
Do you need help?
I think so.
It's been a while.
This was my very first slow dance.
Tell him how you made me fall in love with you.
I smiled at him.
Watch out for the smile, boys.
Let's see if you've gotten any better.
Oh, I'm worse. Much, much worse.
Maybe you shouldn't come everyday.
No. Why? I like to be with Sam.
It's just that there's less that Adam and Ryan can do anymore. I'd hate to have them bored.
I know they're not much help, but they love coming here, George.
How much time do they get to spend with their dad?
What is it with this? They wouldn't spend less time with Peter if they lived here! He has no time!
Do you know Alyssa thinks something is up with us? She's giving me crap about being away from Peter and now you're trying to do the same thing! What no one seems to realize is that Peter isn't there! He's not there! And when he is, he isn't! So, if you don't want me here, or you don't want my kids here, just tell me, George. I'll stop coming. But it won't be because of Peter. It'll be because you asked me to stop. Say what you need to say, because I'm not leaving until I hear it.
I'd rather you not be here.
I thought we were helping.
I can hire workers to help me.
Nothing is going on with us, is it?
Going on?
When I picked you up from the train station...what you said.
What did I say?
That thing about I was the most, you know, beautiful person you had ever known. What was that?
That was the truth.
You've never said that before.
I'll say a lot of things I've never said before. It's habit.
It sounded like a pickup line.
I can't pick you up.
I'm married.
You bit my finger.
If I weren't married?
Let's not do this, okay?
I need to know.
You need to know what? Do I still love you?
Is your back still killing you?
I didn't think you'd come today.
I kept thinking about it, what you said... I hope you were trying to keep me away fro the sake of me.
No. Mostly me.
Peter left me yesterday.
Left you?
No goodbye. No fuck you. No 'Are you in love with George?'
What did he say?
'I'll be in the bedroom.'
Back. Neck. Back.
What?
I could die.
So could I.
Are you going to kiss me?
It's not my back that's killing me.
Don't move!
I'm an idiot to have you up there.
I better get the kids home.
Not a perfect day.
How many bedrooms will your house have?
Three.
I just wanted to know where Mom was?
Oh. Sorry.
It's okay.
She needs to be alone, I think.
Because Dad left?
She's a little sad, is all.
I don't even care if he ever comes back.
I aimed high.
We just weren't very much alike, I guess. I don't know. I liked your dad more than I liked you.
Was bankrupt and dead before I was twenty.
Left you this place.
It was in my name so he wouldn't lose it. He stole it from everyone that deserved it by putting me on title.
Do you know what I'd give to have this! Forget how I got it! I can't afford dirt in this town. I live in Riverside, Goddammitt And you get to piss in the ocean.
Your kid was down around Diver's Cover again, smoking pot. I didn't write him up...told him I wouldn't tell you...
Thanks for telling me.
At least your father tried, George.
Ah! Oh....
I know there's an explanation.
Mr. Dokos called to complain that you and a boy are squatting illegally in the garage of your house.
Check the permits. It was built as a guesthouse. It's a legally rentable unit grandfathered when South Laguna was incorporated.
I'm surprised he hasn't left.
I haven't forced him to work. I only wet him down once. Why would he leave?
It's my day off. I thought I'd help with the plumbing.
I need you to do me a favor.
God, you look like crap, George.
I want you to find someone for me.
Why do you let your dog crap on his lawn, day after day?
I don't let him. He just loves to.
I'd eat a lot of red meat.
Good for you.
What would you do?
I'd build a house.
What kind of house?
You know what mortise and tenon is?
No one's really said four months is all you have, have they?
Stage four pancreatic cancer. They haven't even pretended to offer treatment. You tell me, when would you start eating red meat?
Can you build a house in four months?
I can die trying.
Good for you.
I haven't been touched in years.
I'm sorry, I don't know what that was.
A handshake, or you know, someone pats you on your back through clothes. Doctors, people who have to touch you. But not by people who want to.
No. A friend... your mother? Everybody gets touched by someone they love.
Isn't that weird? I mean, I dated a little bit after my divorce, for four or five years. Six years. I know when my son was younger...maybe when he was ten or eleven even, he'd run up and wrap his arms around me.
Your mom and the boys can drop by anytime.
To check up on me?
I'll be around to check up on you.
Why would you be there?
Because I live there.
You live in Cory's parents' cabin?
Did you tell him he's spending the summer with me?
No I'm not!
Who are you, anyway? I don't even know you.
You'll know me by the time we're through.
I'm not going!
I'll get your bag.
Mom, tell him I'm not going. You already promised me!
You have everything?
I'm not going!
You don't have a choice.
Mom...please.
Your nose ring comes out of your nose. If you've got them in your nipples, they come out, too. And there's no makeup at my house. No glue sniffing. Huffing. No pills, no grass.
If you hit me, I'll call the police.
You've worn out your welcome at this house, Sam. I won't ever hit you. This may well be the worst three months of your life, but you've earned it. So, pick up your suitcase and go get in the truck. Now.
I'll hate you forever.
You can't even begins to know how much I hate my father. Think of it as a family tradition.
Are you totally insane?!
I almost saw Catalina.
Probably in the bible.
Goodnight.
What are you doing?!
I warned you yesterday.
Don't touch me! You can't touch me!
Do you ever get like the slightest inkling that you might want to help me instead of doing absolutely nothing?
No.
Get the inkling, Sam. I'm getting tired of your attitude.
I hate turkey.
No you don't.
I want you to take out your nose ring and leave it out.
Why?
It bugs me.
You snore at night. That bugs me. Can I take you out?
Your brothers are right. It was the most godawful smell I've ever had my nose around.
I don't know.
I'm gonna take a walk. I need some money.
You'll have money when you work.
You're so predictable.
No one would blame me if I left!
I'd blame you. I want you here.
I'm not doing it!
It'll be fine.
Why don't you just beg some money off my dad and move into something decent with a real kitchen and a real bathroom?
I'd rather sell my nuts to a castrati.
I don't beg.
And I don't take a shower in the middle of the yard.
I can promise you complete privacy.
You can't promise me anything! You don't have anything to promise! You live in a garage! You don't have cable! You're not hooked up to the internet because you don't even own a computer! You don't have a job!
If you had a stupid phone or I could use your truck, mom would give me some money.
You'll have money when you work for it.
I'm leaving.
Hey...hey!
Where are you going?
I don't know.
When are you going to be back?
I don't know.
Well, until you know, you can't go.
Oh, okay.
Where is it?
A friend of yours is here.
Did you got through my pants?
I might have a solution.
I've been using since I was twelve! You're all so unbelievably stupid. You didn't give a shit about anything I did until now!
I'll apologize for everything but today...Today I give a shit.
You're too fucking late.
The gloves on the table are for you.
You can't make me do a thing.
Sit down for a second.
No.
Oh, so you're in the big shit now! Child abuse. People go to prison for what you just did to me.
My dad used to play a game. I never really understood what it was until after he was gone.
I was holding for someone. That wasn't even mine.
The game was to make me smaller than he was. No matter what. He could be almost invisible as a human being, but I had to be smaller. So if I got good grades, I was a pussy for not playing football. If I cut my hair for him, it wasn't short enough. If I shaved it, I looked like a psycho. I never won the game. Not once. And if he couldn't make me smaller with words...
I'll have to pay him back.
I won't ever hit you. I don't want you smaller. I want you to be happy. You're not. Not here with me. Not home with your mother. Not up in Tahoe. Not alone. Not anywhere. You're what I was most of my life, Sam. I see it in your eyes. In your sleep. In your answer to everything. You're barely alive.
I'm not even listening.
You know that great thing, though? Is that change can be so constant you don't even feel the difference until there is one. It can be so slow that you don't even notice that your life is better or worse, until it is. Or it can just blow you away. Make you something different in an instant. It happened to me.
Twenty years of hating what you live in...what you are. This is the end of it, Sam. I'm gonna build something of me here that I can be proud to give to you.
Don't. I don't want it.
Do whatever you want with it. I don't care. All I want from you is for you to remember we built this house together.
We haven't build shit. You're just tearing down your father.
Try it. It feels good.
Hi, Alyssa.
Hi, Mom.
I took some of your Vicodin.
I know. Why?
I like how it feels not to feel.
I know the feeling.
How do you become something you're not?
What would you like to be?
What I'm not.
What are you now?
Nothing.
That's not true.
See, that's the thing...I am what I say I am.
I know parts of who you are.
What do you know about me?
When you started first grade and your mom went to work, it was so she could save for an apartment. But then she met Peter and skipped the idea of renting.
He's got nothing to do with me.
I couldn't imagine how I could compete with him for any part of you. So, I didn't. He wanted you to have his last name...I let him even take that.
He was a prick when I was six, and he's a prick today.
I wish you had told me then.
I'm telling you now.
I gave up on you.
I'd be in Tahoe having fun if you had given up.
What would you be doing now?
Getting high, I guess.
If I asked you to stop, would you?
I haven't used anything for two days. I'm trying.
I'm proud of you, Sam.
Don't be. And hide whatever that new drug is you have. I like it.
Are you talking?
I was just thinking about my mom. She wouldn't leave him. I remember one time she made us dinner wearing sunglasses. I mean it was dark outside and in. But we never talked about it.
Sun glasses?
To hide a black eye.
Why wouldn't she leave?
I think she was terrified of living with him...but maybe even more terrified of life without him.
I would have killed him.
Everything would have been better if you had. You'd have liked your grandmother. And there'd be a girl out there that'd have her mother. I remember reading about her in the paper. They couldn't find her father and her mother was dead. I still feel guilty about that.
Do you ever wish you had done it?
I loved him too much.
After everything he did to you and your mom?
After everything.
That's so weird...
Dale wants to know if we should run an outside outlet for Christmas lights with a switch inside?
Absolutely. Have him put it on a separate line. At Christmas, we'll pact it so full of lights, we'll make God wear sunglasses.
You look better than ever.
I don't think Mom cares that much that my...that Peter left.
She seemed upset.
What's wrong with your back?
I mean, do you need to have surgery on it or what? Because those pills you're taking are for a lot of pain. And you're going through them quick.
Are you taking them still?
No, but I count them. In a sock isn't new, you know?
I don't know what that means. What kind of problem?
The kind where there isn't really an answer.
I still don't know what that means.
I wanted you here so we could have a few months together. Maybe everything happens for a reason. Something bad to force something good.
I don't know what that means. What kind of problem?
The kind where there isn't really an answer.
I still don't know what that means.
I wanted you here so we could have a few months together. Maybe everything happens for a reason. Something bad to force something good.
And you told Mom today?
Yes.
We're all dying from the start. I just got picked for Advanced Placement.
You lied to me!
I would have lied to me if I thought I'd believe it.
This was all for your sake, wasn't it? Having me here? Trying to get me to like you.
I never tried to get you to like me. I tried to get you to love me.
Well, congratulations! You fucking pulled it off!
I don't wanna go, Sam.
Here.
The whole summer, man. Party in Tahoe.
I don't know.
It'll just be my brother the dweeb on weekends. All we gotta do is sand and paint the cabin, dude. My dad's gonna let me use the boat and my charm is gonna let me use my rod. Income village is the place to hook up with hump.
I'll ask.
Hey, it beats letting town folk go down on you for the summer.
I never said anything. I haven't done anything.
I know what the deal is. Josh is a pimp. I'm not stupid.
You don't know what the deal is. There is no fucking deal.
This has got to stop!
He escaped. He's going back in.
Does it give you some sort of perverse pleasure to expose your...penis in plain view of my sixteen yearold daughter?
There are no windows facing my...exposure.
George, this is the third time.
The plumber's due out on Friday.
You'll have to explain that to the police.
You were the only neighbor I could tolerate.
I did warn you.
My life is a warning. I just can't figure out for what.
I forgot where I put my keys.
And you thought they might be under her dress?
Hello?
Where are you? You're driving me crazy, waiting like this. I want you in me now!
Is Alyssa home?
She's out with a friend.
Oh...do you know when she'll be home?
She didn't really say.
Oh...okay.
Sam?
Uh huh.
I didn't recognize you!
I'm sorry.
Alyssa said you don't even have plumbing over there.
Not a shower.
Thanks for the shower.
I want you both to stay.
Come over anytime you need to, Sam.
Thanks, I'd like that. Thank you.
If she's not up, you can use my shower.
Thank you.
You're here early today.
We're getting out of the ground today.
Is Alyssa here?
It's midnight. What's the matter, Sam?
Nothing. My dad's dying. I really need to talk to Alyssa.
I'm good, thanks.
What are you on?
Pardon me?
how much weight have you lost?
Oh...nothing. Thirty pounds. I just haven't been very hungry.
How's your wife?
When we divorce a decade ago, she was very, very angry. Now she's just hostile.
Right...she married...what was he?
He buys and sells the world.
Peter Webber! Right. Quite the spotlight on that guy.
I did tell you, didn't I? That I'd be ready to start the Berlin model today?
Well, that's sort of...you're sure you're not hungry?
This isn't me. We can show clients endless options, change anything in a matter of hours on the computer. But you won't change.
Typing and clicking myself to renderings isn't why I started building models.
All of us are typing and clicking, George. Whether we want to, or not.
I'm not.
Which is why we bid out a quarter of our projects. It doesn't make a lot of sense anymore to want what we don't have and don't want what we do.
I've been here twenty years.
Maybe that's too long.
Maybe...?
That's too long.
Oh.
How old are you?
Forty.
We were probably in school together. You went to Berkley?
Class of eightysix! I didn't know you were there.
I was a sophomore when I got the call my parents were dead.
Listen...maybe I can get you a year.
I hate this job.
What are you talking about? You love your job.
From the day I started...to today. Can't stand it.
Then it sounds like I'm doing you a favor.
It may sound that way, but I react out of fear. My life has nothing to do with what I like or don't like. You haven't been listening, have you?
I didn't know there would be a quiz, George.
For everything.
Well, I feel better about this now.
Good. I was hoping for that.
I've got one favor to ask.
What can I do for you, George?
I built my first model here when I was twenty. There are hundreds of them on shelves around the office. Twenty years of my life. I was wondering if I might be able to pick a few to keep, to take home? Only the ones that really mean something to me.
Oh, well...those are...I mean, we don't get to keep our work. I could maybe ask them if you could choose one. But, you know, frankly George, you were the best. Computer models can't begin to match the beauty you gave yours. They're a part of this firm. They inspire me. I go out there and sometimes just stare at something I've designed. It amazes me. I would miss that too much. Look, I may be going out on a limb, but you go out there and look them over, every single one of them and pick the one you like the best and take it with you. Just run it by me first, just in case, you know...but I'm sure it'll be okay.
Thank you.
Well, it's the least I can do.
Yes, it is.
Mr. Stevens?
I've been dreading you.
Bob Larson. Do you happen to have an unenclosed toilet in close proximity to a kitchen?
A violation?
Oh, yes.
And if I enclosed it?
An exhaust system or a window is code.
A sink?
Allowed outside the enclosed area.
I hate to ask about a window.
I flushed it down the toilet.
I assume you'll fill the...uh, window, with glass?
If that's what it takes.
Mr. Stevens. One of your neighbors is adamant your home has exceeded its approved height. He's filed to have construction stopped immediately.
It's thirty feet.
Well, if it is, we have a problem.
I have the permit.
After your last extension request and with Design Review and the Board of Adjustment and the appeals to the city council, was there an amended permit?
To the patio and one northfacing window... And six inches to the height.
That would take weeks.
Months.
This is such a street of whiners.
From Tuesday to yesterday, not including Monday or today. Okay...Mrs. Dokos is repeatedly running over her lawn. The Corliss' have attributed the increase in rat population in their environs to the state of your...structure.
IPO's caused the rat population on this street.
And of course the Beck's, with the...
It could have been a squirt gun.
You've been good this week.
Are you guys' friends?
We've known each other since grade school.
I mean, but did you both go camping on weekends? Listen to music? Masturbate together? Talk on the phone?
I wouldn't want you as a friend.
George just never really...aimed that high. Even with not hitting a rabbit. I knew you were doing that, by the way. That's why I stopped doing it with you. You were no fun. It was always like you were frightened. Quiet and boring.
Funny how he's the architect and you're just a loud mouth cop.
He builds models for architects. His dad, on the other hand, was the real deal. Designed and built the coolest houses I've ever seen.
Mr. Dokos says that your father missed his height envelope by six inches.
He wants the entire roof taken off and lowered.
You're so nice to let Sam use your shower.
He's got a standing invitation.
Why is that?
Just, I mean, well, you're here every single day.
He's at work while I'm here.
I guess I'd just be jealous if I were him.
Well, he doesn't need to worry.
If my kids and my wife were always at an exhusband's house, I'd worry.
He's not the type to worry.
He won't leave my room.
Will he talk to me?
No.
I'm hungry! Where's my dinner? Who ate my dinner? Huh? Who's in trouble now?
Hi.
Hey.
What are you doing here?
They're trying to make me spend the summer here. I'm leaving in the morning.
Where to?
I'm supposed to be in Tahoe.
Your dad's really gonna build his house?
I don't know.
Well, if you don't go, I guess I'll see you.
You should stay.
I don't know.
Where's your dad?
He jumped into the ocean.
Tell him I said "hi".
He's a freak.
You look better without makeup.
I can't even take a shower here.
Come over to my house whenever you want. I'll tell my mom.
I might not stay, anyway.
I'll get your back.
No. That's okay.
Do you remember me from when you lived here?
Yeah.
Your dad dated my mom after her divorce.
Really?
I wanted him to marry her.
Why?
Turn over.
Josh and I are going to South Coast. Wanna ride? Maybe see a movie?
No thanks.
Huh?
I can use your mom's.
I'm okay.
Not really. No. Kinda. He got busted?
His parents took his car. They're making him ride a bicycle the rest of the summer.
Really?
He asked me to tell you that you owe him a hundred dollars.
He can peddle over anytime he wants to for it.
This is serious! I don't have my license. He was my ride.
I'm sorry. I'm just here to shower.
I've seen lots of people. It's not a big thing for me.
Hand me a towel. I'm getting out.
I'm coming in.
I don't want you to!
We're not gonna do anything.
Why are you so stupid?
Why are you so uptight?
I don't even...what do you mean? I don't even know what that means.
It means I'm gonna shampoo my hair and stay out of your way.
Hand me a towel. Hand me a towel.
What's the point of this?
Does everything have to have a point?
It's freakish. I don't get it. I'm not really supposed to touch you, but I can look.
Are you sure you're totally into guys?
What are you talking about?
Josh said...
I'm not gay.
I was wondering.
You're driving me crazy! Do you know what it's like trying to jackoff in an armoire?
Not really.
You're off, you know? You're way, way off.
I thought I was helping you.
It would help me if I could kiss you.
No, I don't...NO. I thought we were just friends.
What you think, you know, doesn't have much to do with reality. I mean, I hope I'm not the first to say that about you.
Okay, but then we'll just be friends. Okay?
Okay. I guess.
On the handlebars or your shoulders?
Are you afraid of heights?
Hey, I can get you three hundred cash for two hours.
What?
You hate your father.
If he tricked me into loving him, is what I meant.
You'd hate him for the trick.
Not if what he left me was real.
I don't wanna go.
He asked where you were! He wants you with him.
I don't wanna go.
Where are you?!
Floating to Catalina.
What?
Sorry I got you into trouble.
I'll survive.
He must.
He seems lonely.
Are you his friend?
No.
Why?
Marilyn Manson...and I guess he's into guys. I hate nose rings. And the blue eye shadow thing really isn't working.
Alyssa.
Why have you put a toilet and a bed in your garage?
I'm living here while I build another house.
Is that legal?
Don't you have school?
Nope.
What's today?
Monday.
My keys.
What's that?
I had them in my pocket.
I'm not shaving my legs or pits this summer, I've decided.
Can you keep Sam straight?
He's not gay. I found out purely by accident, believe me.
I mean drugs. I thought you said he was?
He wouldn't use around me. I don't like any of it.
You're a good girl.
I need to ask you something, Mr. Nelson.
You have to ask like that?
I want you to try something with me, okay?
I've taken a lot of morphine. Oral morphine...for my back. Can I wait till I can say no and sound convincing?
Did you feel anything?
Maybe your tongue...I don't know, my mouth is numb. Why did you do that?
My mother would die.
Let's shut up and not kill her.
It's not what I was expecting.
What did you think it would be?
I don't know... More like when I kissed Sam.
Mom?
Here, honey!
I put him to work.
What's wrong?
I couldn't get it to go down.
And why was the alarm on?
Oh...I set it to see if it would work.
You'd better call and cancel.
Oh God, we don't want the police!
What are you doing up so early?
I couldn't sleep last night.
I'm supposed to be mad at you, but I'm not.
Why? What do you mean?
Uh...using Josh like that.
I'm going to bed.
Has he eaten anything at all?
I'd be more comfortable if he slept in the guestroom.
I'd be more comfortable if you hadn't slept with Josh. And George would be more comfortable if he weren't dying.
Atonement.
Who are all these people?
What's that for?
Mom said I should.
Oh.
I would have anyway.
So put your plans of my room in the trash.
I don't think Dad wants you home.
He hasn't called?
Who are you?
Do you guys feel like painting?
What color?
Red.
I love red! That's my favorite color!
Are you going to see Sam again?
I thought I might stop by.
You can go back to bed...or Lois might let you go swimming.
I wanna be with you today.
Oh, honey. There's not much to do there. I mean, it's all work.
We can work.
I woke up this morning at three and couldn't fall back asleep. Everyday I think I see more of Sam than I've seen in years.
Sam!
Did you know him before you knew Dad?
Since seventh grade.
And video games after!
Home after. Will you come in and say "hi"?
That's how you get things right is to always try and never give up. Huh, Mom?
I guess it depends on what you give up on.
He's not there.
He's here. Check the bathroom.
I checked everywhere. He's not there.
When does George get to come see his house?
It's so beautiful.
Marco!
What are you doing?
I'm not cheating! I'm not looking!
Dad's disappeared!
He was there and then he wasn't!
And we got to take all the old paint off all the doors and then George taught us how to stain everything and he even let me choose the color I liked best! And he said he loved me!
We did a lot of the wiring too.
With Dale. Oh, and I got to drill a hole into a board to put the wire through!
No hurt Jimmy, sir... oh no, please, sir...
I'm sending you back to Hell!
Is he a friend, then?
Yes, yes... Jimmy Squarefoot good friend to one and all...
Forgive my blood haste, Jimmy Squarefoot, but I want no more surprises from Couer de Noir.
The Black Baron, you say?
Lost?
Much good we do the world, for all our noble quest...
Jimmy Squarefoot no lost.
Simple as that, eh?
Castle Couer de Noir built with magic... simple as death... strong as hate...
You do know where it is?
Can you show us the way?
To Castle Couer de Noir?
There'll be spoils aplenty if you guide us there. Once we breach the walls, help yourself to all you can carry.
That very nice.
Let that be our problem, just get us there.
You follow.
It be the castle... we feel the castle... it be that close...
A castle's but stone and mortar 
Nay. Castle Couer de Noir is Devil's work... built with sorrow and grief...
Plenty treasure inside... Jimmy seen it once.
You've been inside?
In a dream.
Don't speak to me of dreams! I feel I've been dreaming since the unicorn was killed.
Each fit for a hero... My uncle fashioned a hammer for Thor. Twas he named it Mjolnir. Grandfather forged Excalibur... You won't ever see finer craftsmanship.
Oh, but I have.
How came you by this blade?
I slew the Lindfarne Worm with it.
The Avatar. I like the sound of it.
Sigurd the Volsung slew Fafnir with that blade... See the line where Regin welded the break?
Uhm... fine work.
Achilles wore it before the gates of Troy.
You're well equipped, I'd say. Legendary arms...
You're with us in battle.
May God protect you.
The fastest in the world.
I know where to find him... He lies out on the marsh, ravenfodder; his horn torn from his head.
What do we do now?
We wait.
What's she doing?
I think she's about to foal.
I'm in your debt, Screwball.
Watch behind or I'll never collect on it!
Praise be to God.
Small miracles better than no miracles...
Master Jack! Master Jack! These woods are alive! They're alive!
Of course they're alive. All nature is living.
Where?
Up ahead!
Come on, Gump, let's have a look at this witchcraft.
What can you steal from a man already lost his life?
His honor, I suppose... seeing he no longer can defend it.
What care the bones when the soul is free?
Bah! You faeries have the morals of ferrets.
Maybe there's a better idea... What about birds... get a lift from some friendly bird...
Haven't heard a bird sing in days...
Or a kite...! We could make a kite... Let the wind do the work 
Hello, Jack.
Done like a champion. Can you reach me with the line?
Sorry, Jack.
It's done... we'll never catch him.
Your fond wishes give me strength, dear friends.
No speeches! What's a little swim after sticking worms and ogres?
Courage, Jack.
I pray God grants it me.
This is not the time for squabbling.
Sorry.
Were I a mortal girl, Jack, methinks I'd be in love with you.
Then I'd kiss you without turning my garments insideout and sewing bells all over.
No need for bells, Jack. I'll nay enchant ye.
Such a sad world, be there no unicorns to brighten it.
No fear of that now.
Never even had a sword in my hand until yesterday.
Then, tis not for chastity? Methought you kept a naked blade twixt you and any maiden chanced spend the night.
I live in an abandoned fox den neath the roots of a thousandyearold oak. My bed is pine boughs and rabbit skins. There's no need of weaponry to keep the maids away.
I'm partial to oaks, as are all faerie folk. Mayn't I come visit sometime?
I'd be honored.
Only that?
And charmed, of course.
Fie! Don't speak of charms. I should charm you for being so dull witted.
I had no thought of offending you, Oona.
Do I not please you, Jack?
In every way.
And am I not fair?
Wondrously so.
Then why do you speak sweeter words to Jenny Greenteeth?
That was in jest.
Jest with me then.
How so?
Tell me I'm fair, as you did the hag.
You are fair as the first new flower of spring...
And sweet?
Sweeter than bee pollen on a summer wind.
Pray you be sweet as your words, dear Jack.
Nay, Oona, tis not possible.
A faerie's love makes anything possible.
I'm promised to another!
What shape I take matters not. Long you for another? I'll give you your heart's desire.
Oona... don't cry... please, you mustn't...
You... you... you mortal you!
Please...
Why should I feel such pain? Should be the other way round... I could vex you... make you dance your life away...
Threats won't make me love you. Tis not the way of the human heart.
What care I for the human heart! Such a soft, spiritless thing it is. I prefer the hearts of hawks and wolves; fierce and free and keen as steel!
And as barren of love as stone.
I would build a wall around me with such stone, so the likes of you might never enter.
Be fair, Oona.
You beware, Jack! You and your porridgepot heart!
Is this a May Day pageant? Are you all off on a lark...? The raven passed this way hours ago!
Heading north still?
True north... Straight up that pass, through the net.
What's this now?
I bring you the only treasure worthy of your loveliness... for naught else in the universe rivals the reflected glory of your beauty.
Well spoke, boy. You have discerning taste for one so young... Just who might you be?
They call me Green Jack, ma'am.
Come closer then, Jack, that I might give you proper thanks.
Your fair smile be thanks enough. Better I stand afar to admire your beauty complete.
Think me fair, do you, Jack?
The moon herself would hide behind a cloud rather than dare comparison with you...
The moon is too round of face, methinks.
The sight of you makes flowers seem like dross. All the heavenly angels must envy your grace.
I like well your conceit, Jack. Tis rare to find an honest lad in this troubled world.
Aye. And it is the trouble befallen us that brings me here. I entreat you to tell me the cause of our surrounding sorrow, most lovely of the lovely.
Dear lad, what does winter bespeak but death? It is a time of mourning. This calamity is a curse. Something wondrous and beautiful has been taken from the world.
A unicorn's been slain. The last stallion in all the country.
Why then, there thou hast. We be lucky worse has not befallen us.
Here be the death weapon; the unicorn's blood dry upon it.
Couer de Noir! A demon if the Devil ever made one.
He chopped off the horn and left the rest to rot.
That would be the Baron's way. There'll be no light or life in the world until the alicorn is taken from him and he vanquished.
How do I get the horn back?
You'll need the fastest steed alive, for Couer de Noir's castle rests at the very edge of the earth. Only the sharpest sword and the golden armor of Achilles will protect you from his fury.
Where do I find the Baron's castle?
Follow the raven in her flight, Follow old black wing to the edge of night...
Not very precise directions.
Come sit beside me, sweet boy, and I'll draw you a map.
Nay. Tempting as your invitation be. Tell me one thing more.
Ask away, sweet man.
What became of the princess?
Princess? I know of no princess.
Princess Lili, Godwin's daughter. She was with me when calamity struck, but after I could find no trace of her.
Is she fair, this princess?
Exceeding fair.
As fair as me?
Twould be to compare one star with another in the summer sky.
She's dead!
No!
Dead, dead, dead.
I don't believe you.
Far as you're concerned she's dead, believe it or not.
This is sad news, be it true.
Don't be sad, Jack, not with me here to give you cheer.
Tis not the time to speak of cheer.
You'll visit again?
As a hummingbird returns to the fairest blossom.
What a fine meal you'd make, be the rest of you sweet as your tongue.
Honored to make your acquaintance.
Grand champion, is it? And what great cause leads you to me?
We seek the ogre, Baron Couer de Noir. He slew a unicorn and plunged the world into eternal winter.
Thought the weather terrible of late.
Step lively now!
His feet shall never cross my lips.
Sigurd's sword...
Another hero's handmedown... Thurgis, note the armor; tis Greek work.
Greetings, my lady, the green wood is honored.
Oh, Jack, you are a wild man to use me so.
These for me?
If you like.
You promised!
Never.
But you did... you did!
I may have said perhaps...
Liar!
Or perchance...
It's my father, gone ahunting. The Baron Couer de Noir is his guest and must be provided with some sport.
Sport, indeed.
The Baron is a frightful man. They say he's an ogre. He wears a mask so none may see his face.
Blackheart. Aptly named.
Oh, fie. What about the unicorn?
Unicorn?
A promise is a sacred oath.
All right. I'll show you something sacred.
Let's rest a minute. I'm so thirsty.
Stop complaining.
A gentleman would offer water.
Only were he a fool to boot. See yon viper?
I detest serpents.
That viper has envenomed the water. No animal will drink here now.
What shall we do?
Be patient.
Oh, dear.
What's the matter?
I've lost my napkin. It was all elfwork and lace... I must have dropped it when you startled me so.
I'll go search for it.
Don't leave me now. I fear the unicorn won't show himself without you.
I'm not its master.
The napkin will keep. I'd rather not be alone.
Your command is my wish, Princess Lili.
How much longer?
Shhh!
I am a princess. You have no right to order me about.
In these woods you are a commoner. Now be quiet. True royalty approaches.
Such grace... and their smell; it's ambrosia.
They rival the angels of paradise.
Oh Jack, mightn't I touch one? It would thrill me so.
Are you honest?
Jack!
Tis a fair question. If you be a virtuous maid the unicorn will lay his head in your lap.
He'll not flee if I show myself?
Not if you be chaste. Tis an awesome test of virginity.
I've no fear of failure. Your implications are most unbecoming.
I'm not your judge... nor have I any desire to witness the trial.
Where are you going?
To fetch your napkin.
What happened?
I don't know. They've hurt the unicorn.
Who?
My father and the Baron.
Damned hunters. It was a trap, and you were the bait!
I didn't know... I didn't... It was so lovely... he was in my lap like... like a baby... and... I...
They tricked you.
My own father...
How bad was the unicorn's wound?
It happened so fast. He was hurt and ran away.
He did run?
Oh, yes, and the mare with him.
Good. They'll never catch him. There's not a mount in the kingdom can outrun a unicorn.
There are many would pay a king's ransom for a few drops of unicorn blood.
I don't want it on me.
Its powers are strong.
I don't want to be reminded of what happened.
Do you think memory can be washed away like a few spots of blood?
Not even the birds sing sweet as you.
Jack... Green Jack, you mustn't flatter me so.
Tis the truth.
A maid must beware of flattery... Methinks you want to kiss me.
There's no happier thought under heaven.
If I were your bride, would the kissing ever stop...? Do you wish to marry me, Jack?
My lady mocks me.
Nay, Jack, I'm but wary of your intentions.
My heart intends no more than that you love me as I do you.
Oh, la...
I'm afraid it may storm.
Let it. Haven't you a cozy bower we might hide in?
Tis not fit for a princess.
Be it fit for your wife, Green Jack?
I have no wife.
Then, perchance you'll me.
If wishes were horses even beggars would ride.
Do you wish it, Jack? Wish you this our wedding band?
What if I answer yes? Will my wish come true?
Lili! No!
Jack... Forgive me...
What have I done?
Only what's right...
I thought you were dead... I 
I was bewitched... it's better this way...
They told me you were dead.
No! I won't let it happen...
You've freed me, Jack...
It's the Baron's damnable work! Too cowardly to stand and fight... he used you to save himself.
No... it's not you he's afraid of, it's... light...
What?
Sunlight... It destroys him.
Sunlight?
That's why he goes masked during the day...
So, he's hiding in the dark...
In the dark... where I join him...
No! Don't let go... you mustn't! I love you!
And I... love you...
Oh! Green Jack! What a dream I've had... proper nightmare.
Whilst you were sleeping, I fetched your ring.
Sweet Jack. I'm so sorry you found me asleep. Don't know what came over me.
I can't have been under much more than a minute.
Seemed like weeks and weeks. Such a terrible dream... I could never tell you...
Is what you said about the ring but another dream?
Oh no, dearest Jack... I meant every word.
You're teasing still.
Nay, dearest Jack... you are to be my husband. I want none other.
But... I am a Green Man. I have no title, nor lands... scarce even a few vines and threads to keep the cold from my body.
You wear your weeds as well as golden armor, Jack. Like a true Prince... a champion!
Lili... I love you!
And I love you, my husband.
What's the matter?
Ouch! Something's biting me.
Biting you?
Pinching me!
Pinching? Where?
Everywhere! Ow!
I can't see a thing.
Nor can I. Damn! It's buzzing all around me. Ouch! I can hear it like a fly trapped inside my ear... Says its name is Oona!
Oona? Do you suppose it's a faerie?
Ow! Whatever it is, it hurts.
Keep me belly full, Jack. Kill us another worm.
Hush up, Screwball. Do your own wormsticking if you like the taste so well.
Nay. Jack's the dragonslayer, ain't you, Jack.
Well done, lad. Stout heart.
Wolfslayer, wormsticker... give a cheer for the champion!
Barely living, from the looks of it.
No, no, no... this is different!
You see! You see!
These chaps'll need a woodpecker to pick their teeth.
Ogg lives there...! And Thurgis!
Screwball! Be quiet...! We have friends live 'neath the Needle. They'll no doubt provide safe refuge for the night.
We seek to undo the curse.
Gonna make ogrestew!
Well done, lad.
Three cheers for our champion.
Look at that shot! Three at once! I can't miss!
Very thrifty. Even got your arrow back.
Sweet slippers of Oisin!
They've fired the moat!
Someone like Floki... or Squarefoot... or 
You'll do it because I am you liege and I command you to do it!
Aye... my Lord...
Rise, Screwball, and into the basket with you.
Start acting like you're worthy of this mission... Here. Whatever you do, don't dare drop it.
Nay, Sire, I'll cling to it as to life itself...
Good, lad... Here, Jack, give me a hand with the windlass... There's a good fellow...
How're these?
They'll do nicely.
Dolt!
Sorry.
So, Jack... think you be a Green Man and not know Gump.
Gump, is it?
Aye, Honeythorn Gump, come to serenade you, Jack... come to make you dance.
I'm in no mood for dancing.
Oh, but you will be, Jack... Think you to sleep in a faerie ring and not spend the night adancing?
Faerie ring?
To be sure.
No! Tis not the time! I want no part of your frolic.
Dance, Jack! The night's but begun.
Enough!
And how is it a mortal dare dictate to the faerie folk? Is me music not to your liking? Mayhap the dance of death by more your pleasure.
No... I... I need to rest.
You'll have a long, long rest in the tomb, me lad.
I meant no disrespect.
Didn't you now? Well then, answer me this riddle and all be forgiven.
And if I cannot?
Why, Jack, then tis your death song I'll be strumming.
It's bluebells!
What!
The flower. Bluebells. To hear them ringing means your life's at an end.
Damnation! Codfish and cockles! Gammon and trotters! You've bested me, Jack.
A riddle without an answer is but an empty cup when you're thirsty for wine.
Well spoke. True to the mark. And if it's wine you're wanting, it's wine we shall have.
You be our guest, Jack.
I'm honored, Honeythorn Gump... but no more tricks.
You have me word, lad. To answer a faerie riddle deserves as much.
Twas the Princess Lili gave me the answer... have you seen her, by chance?
I've laid eyes on no mortal but you this day, Jack.
I fear she's lost.
Mayhap you be the one what's lost, and she safe by the castle hearth... but, come Jack, we'll warm your bones.
Why, Jacklad, she likes you, is all. And what hotblooded hero wouldn't welcome the affections of a fair nymph like Oona here...? If your blood runs so cold, boy, you be a corpse before your time.
What does she want from me?
Elderberry wine. No finer drink under heaven.
It looks... er, delicious... Such a fine bouquet... very aromatic...
Are ye afraid of me wine? Did your momma tell ye never to take food nor drink from the Wee Folk? Think if ye sup with the faeries you'll be enchanted?
Well... I... I don't want to be rude, but... it's generally known that 
Generally known! What general ever knew more than to lace up his boots?
Please don't misunderstand. I am grateful for your hospitality and 
He is afraid of enchantment! Will you listen to the fool prattle on.
But... but, why?
Big question that, lad. Why what?
Why has this happened to the world? Why is it winter now, and dark?
Aye. Honeythorn Gump'd be a powerful wizard indeed could he answer.
Don't you know?
If you're looking for enchantment, Jack, that I can give thee...
That much magic I can offer ye, a small measure of entertainment at best. Making the world a frozen hell is beyond me modest powers.
Then, what's gone wrong? Why did it happen?
If ye want more tricks, I'm your man, but for big questions ye must go elsewhere.
Don't you care about what's happened?
Course we care. What good's the world locked in a season of death. Frozen up, no folks to scare out of their wits on a summer's night; no babies to tickle; no more spells to cast... Think that's an enjoyable prospect?
There must be an answer somewhere.
True... But it won't come easy or free. If ye want to ask, ask Jenny Greenteeth.
Jenny Greenteeth? Who's she?
Someone worthy of respect, lad. She be a water spirit, lives in a bog down at seaside. Hideous creature to look at, even by my doubtful standards; devours little children, she does, when she can catch them.
How is it this hag knows the truth?
Think there be truth only in beauty, lad? If you've the courage to ask and take care to avoid her terrible claws, Jenny Greenteeth has the answers you seek.
Will you lead me to her?
Aye. On the morrow we go, but tonight... ... tonight is for making merry.
Are we here?
Aye. That foul wallow be where Jenny Greenteeth dwells. Oona... lure her out. Play the part of a girlchild.
What do I do?
Don't get caught, that's what! She'll suck your bones like honey comb.
Here now. Toss her this when you've the chance. Jenny Greenteeth can't resist the sight of herself in a glass. She's terribly vain. Praise her beauty and you'll lull her sweet as a babe in a cradle.
And if she thinks me a liar?
Fie on what she thinks! You mind her claws and teeth... Cast your spell, Oona.
The princess is dead.
Lamentable news, Jack... but tis the fate of the living concerns us now.
Did you hear? Twas the killing of the unicorn caused it.
Aye. Black Baron's mischief.
If the horn be restored the curse is ended.
Time for a champion. Can you do more than pick acorns and rob bird's nests, Jack?
I'll do what I have to do, for Princess Lili's sake!
Bravely spoke. You've the heart of a champion, true enough.
Twill take more than heart. Where do we find the armor of Achilles, for a start?
I know where to find it. Taking possession be another matter.
There it be, lad. The Lindfarne Mound. Kings long forgotten lie there, lost in their final sleep.
Have we turned graverobber, then?
A tomb it once was, boy, and a tomb it may yet be... There's another in residence at Lindfarne now.
And who might that be?
No less a creature than the Lindfarne Worm.
So I'm to be a dragonslayer, is that it?
Now, Jacklad, no one's asking ye to skewer the worm. Even St. Michael'd have a job on his hands for all that. But the serpent hoards a pile of booty, Achilles' armor among his treasures... if we find our way within the mound and him asleep...
Knaves and robbers...
Better pray the worm's a sound sleeper, Jack.
You do the praying. I've work ahead.
There's the spirit, lad. If ye run into trouble, give a yank here and we'll haul ye up.
What's left of me... How do I recognize the armor of Achilles?
You'll know it when you see it... tis a splendid sight, all covered with gold... Don't fear making noise. Dragons be deaf as tree stumps.
There be no finer victuals than worm flesh, lad.
Better we eat him than the other way round.
By the grace of God.
No false modesty, lad. You're a proper champion. Achilles' armor sits on you like it was forged to fit.
I believe this is a sword such as the archangels wield. Surely St. Michael had so fine a blade when he drove the serpent from heaven.
Well then, you've got the sword and you've got the armor; all's lacking is the steed.
Shhhh!
Screwball! You dolt! I've a mind to change you into a toad.
What is it?
Something's coming.
Pregnant, is she?
It would appear so.
Damn them!
Careful, lad.
Don't see why I can't ride, too! I'm second in command, damn it!
The colt's still too small.
I'm small... and I can make myself smaller still... Small as a bee! Small as dust...! Want to see me do it?
We've no time for tricks this day, Honeythorn Gump.
Tricks, is it? Why I'll trick ye! Ungrateful whelp! I'll sour your milk and bird droppings'll fall from the sky wherever ye walk.
Save your mischief for the Black Baron.
Aye! That too.
You'll need more than bird droppings for Blackheart.
I'll drop a cow on the knave!
Drop a mountain on him and we won't need our troops.
Finelooking army.
We march on Castle Couer de Noir within the hour.
How do you plan on finding this here castle, if ye don't mind me asking?
A true and troubling question, Gump... We'll start from where the unicorn was killed. The Baron must have left a trail.
Track the demon to his lair.
Aye. And hang his foul hide up like dirty laundry for the drying.
We must follow that bird.
Whatever for?
Jenny Greenteeth said: "Follow the raven in her flight..."
Aye. Said to follow it to the edge of night. But is this the right bird?
I'm sure. It spoke to me.
Birds speak to me all the time. What did it say?
Beware.
Sounds like the bird we want. All right lads, follow yon raven!
How do we follow a raven we can't even see?
Send Oona up above the tree tops. She be our eyes.
Good plan that.
This is ogre's magic.
Blackheart?
Aye. He's enchanted the lot of them. His reward for delivering the unicorn.
Foul fellow, this Couer de Noir.
The foulest. Mayhap I can cut them free.
Jack, don't!
Worse than the battlefield.
What know you of fields of war?
Ofttimes, the wee folk come out to tend the wounded... staunch bleeding with cobwebs... give a parched mouth a sip of dew... cool a fevered brow...
There... it seems to quit... I'll wager that war held other attractions quite apart from nursing.
Well... if the knight be already dead; what harm is there in... borrowing a thing or two?
Stealing his arms?
Oona tells me the raven has roosted for the night on a sharp stone spire some half a mile distance.
That would be Devil's Needle. Last landmark I know in these woods.
Good.
Beyond Devil's Needle, all is unknown.
Twould appear other travelers precede us.
Nay, Jack, tis not what you're thinking.
I trust our own welcome will be more hospitable.
Jack, Jack, it's dwarves live here. Hardworking chaps. Hammering in the forge all the livelong day. Make the most wondrous things, they do.
And this? Some of their handiwork?
Nay. That's but to distract the casual visitor. A dwarf is too busy to suffer fools gladly.
Better to kill than be disturbed.
Your imagination runs away with you, Jack... Those bones be but battlefield gleanings, like I mentioned. A wee bit of carrion to frighten off the uninvited.
Here is a bold champion's reward; to serve as a dwarf's doorstop.
Nice piece of work.
Pure gold it is... plays a different note every time.
My God! Look!
Something the matter?
Ogg's footprints!
Shhh! Not so loud, mayhap he'll hear ye.
Dwarves be very sensitive about their feet.
Certainly understandable.
Very secretive, they are. Keep their feet covered up. Best if you don't mention it.
I should hope not!
Gump, you're putting words in my mouth.
I pray always to be worthy of it.
Stoutly spoke, lad. These dwarves be sore grouches... Pay no heed to their spiteful grumbling.
Don't let this talk of heroes upset you, Jack. Sigurd's sword is no great thing. The Volsung killed Fafnir. You killed Lindfarne. That's one worm apiece... I'd say you and Sigurd were neckandneck.
We're not in a tournament, Gump. Ah, but a sword twice tempered in the blood of living dragons...
Tis not the sword that counts, but the man what swings it. Rest easy, Jack.
God protect you, Honeythorn Gump.
Your strong right arm's all the protection I'll need this night.
Make haste! We've a hard day's march ahead.
Be gentle with them, Jack. They only march to please you. Were this a faerie journey, we'd ride the wind on thistledown and ragwort stems.
... this rate... we'll all be in our graves... 'fore we reach the Baron's fortress...
We'll surely be in our graves if we don't.
Going grows slower... we've not made... half a mile in two hours...
God's blessing.
There's the way, mates.
What make ye of that, Jack?
It bodes evil.
Wait!
Willful creature, that one...
Archers! Bring down that spider! I'll deal with this other creature...
Stay on your guard, Jack. The bug is enchanted surely.
Is she... dead?
No, thank the Lord, but she be sore envenomed by the spider's bite.
We're blind now. Oona was our eyes and ears. How do we find the Castle Couer de Noir without her?
We'll find it.
Easily said... the raven passed this way hours ago.
Heading true north. We continue in that direction.
Never knowing when it takes a turn or changes course.
We'll trust in faith, Gump.
Aye, lad... we've little else to go by.
Why not admit it, Honeythorn Gump. We've lost our way entirely.
Long as we don't lose heart, Jack...
We'll never find the Baron's castle.
Once you thought we'd never find the Greek's armor and look at ye now, decked out like a proper hero.
Wait, Jack.
Nay. This time we strike first!
Hold, Jack! Don't strike!
Nay. I show no pity to imps and fiends.
I know the rogue, Jack. Tis Jimmy Squarefoot.
Aye. We be on a quest to set the world aright 
But seem to have gotten lost on the way.
Can we trust him?
No... but what choice have we?
Never felt so cold in all me born days...
The chill is worse this night.
Don't like the feel of it, Jack.
It's your own fear troubles you... We're here, aren't we? For all the dark magic protecting it.
Give in to despair and all is lost.
It feels wrong, Jack... like a trap.
There's more than one way to spring a trap.
Aye, so long as you're not too greedy for the bait.
That be so, better you pinch yourself now, Jack.
On the morrow I'll be awake enough to see if dreams come true.
Pray they don't turn out to be nightmares.
Tells you something 'bout him what lives there...
We'll need more siege machinery and longer scaling ladders.
Why not mine the damned walls?
We do both. Our frontal attack a diversion whilst we drive a tunnel under...
A fine mess this is... horrid, nipping creatures... What do we now, Jack?
Defend ourselves. We've bested far worse already.
Easily spoken...
Don't loose heart... Assemble the archers. Have everyone not holding a shield man a bow. Shoot the damned things as they fly.
There aren't enough arrows.
Never mind. Just do it! Retrieve the arrows somehow.
Water doesn't burn...
And frog don't fly and bite like tomcats. It be magic, Jack... powerful ogre's magic.
There isn't much time!
Been telling you that all along, lad.
What magic have we on our side?
Faerie magic's no match for a sorcerer's power... We have Ogg's gifts, the key and the 
That's it! The unbreakable line! We'll tie it to an arrow and fire it up into the timbers above the portculis... then, I'll climb up and chop down the drawbridge.
Will you chance a miss?
There must be some way to get it up there.
One more turn...
That's it!
Have the engineers corrected for alignment and trajectory?
Aye. Before the wee pesties attacked.
Then it's Godspeed, Screwball.
Fire away!
He'll be atop the portculis ere long.
Best get down close to the moat, lad.
Aye. We're good as inside.
It's what we'll find there worries me.
Jack! The courtyard's been taken... The Baron's forces are besieged in the south tower. No sign of... Jack? Do you hear what I'm saying? We've won, lad.
It doesn't matter.
Nonsense! Course it matters.
... the Princess Lili... I've killed her.
She's sore hurt, Jack, tis true, but not dead yet.
The wound is mortal.
Nay. You've not reckoned with the powers of faerie medicine.
Can you save her?
Easily... The question is, can we save ourselves? Be a shame to win the battle only to lose the war.
I don't... understand.
The alicorn, lad. Come to your senses! Unless we find Baron Couer de Noir and bring back the horn the world is doomed.
The Baron hides in the dark in a passage under the Castle... Quick, give me the dwarf's key... the one which opens any lock...
In the dark, lad? Why should he do that?
Because sunlight will kill him. Quickly now, give me the key.
Sunlight, you say?
Aye. Hurry now, Gump, the key!
Mean you to seek him out below?
I'm not afraid of the dark.
I admire your valor, Jack. By all means, seek him out... But first, we needs visit the kitchen.
The kitchen be the most important room in a palace, for if the victuals ain't right, little else is likely to be so.
Did you bring me here to sup?
Nay, lad, we're here to collect a weapon you'll need fighting the Baron.
What weapon?
Sunlight.
Plan on carrying some away in a kettle?
Easier than that, Jack. Screwball! Fetch me down a couple of them plates.
Will you explain what's going on?
Patience, lad.
Hey! Stop it! I can't see.
Ah, but you will. And so will the Baron, when we bring a little light to his dark hideaway.
Can't we move any faster?
Tis a delicate operation, lad. Requires a bit of engineering... Next!
Seems to be some sort of vaulted chamber up ahead...
Don't get too far!
Hurry up!
He's getting away! He was at my mercy!
Never show mercy!
I could have struck off his head just now!
Ever wondered why Jenny Greenteeth said you needed the fastest steed on earth?
Sapphire!
Ride like wild fire, Jack.
He'll not escape me.
You're on your own... like a true champion.
A good day for singing...
I've not heard a note out of you.
Not in the mood, I'm afraid.
Listen to him. Not in the mood...
On a day like none other the blessed earth has ever seen... A day so fair as forty springtimes 
I'm not denying it's a joyous day 
Where's your joy if you cannot sing?
Were the Princess Lili to join me I would sing till my lungs burst!
She lives... isn't that worth singing about?
She lives like all the world before the Baron's curse lifted. Now the world's reborn, yet still she sleeps...
The quest's at an end and where's the good of it? A faerie festival over a pile of bones?
Tis not the wound, that's sure. Not a scar remains... we're talking about a spell; harder to repair than swordwork.
I'll do anything... face any challenge!
Might not need a gesture quite so grand. What were you doing the very moment the Baron's curse fell on the world?
I was with the Princess.
Where?
By the pond. She was teasing me.
Go on... go on...
She tossed her ring in the pond and bid me fetch it. Said she'd marry me if I did.
And did you?
Nay. It was lost. When I came up for air the pond was frozen over.
That's it then... the ring!
You must find the ring... It completes the cycle; answers the riddle...
I'll try.
You're good at riddles... Find the ring and the spell is broken.
Friend Ogg. Excuse our enthusiasm, occasioned as it was by a fondness for you.
Honeythorn Gump, is it? I've not seen your ugly face since you sold me a jug of cow piss claiming it was dragon's tears.
Well, bygones're bygones, I always say.
Or was it the time you and Jimmy Squarefoot stole the golden apples I'd forged.
Twas Jimmy done that, I merely stood for the blame unfairly... but, here now, Ogg, this be no time to rehash old differences, I've friends along in need of safe haven for the night.
Who might these friends be?
Screwball you know, and many other of the wee folk. We serve as escort for our grand champion, Jack o' the Green.
Baron Couer de Noir is a blight 'gainst all nature. We dwarves be not fighters; still we are with you in this battle. Some of our handiwork may be of assistance.
We be honored, friend Ogg.
There's a coil of golden thread fine as spider web yet naught can break it... and a silver key no lock can resist.
What you do, boy? You be velly solly, come here intellupt my sleep.
I didn't know... I 
What? Speakee loud! No hear velly good.
I said, I mean no harm... I thought this as empty tomb.
You come stealee tleasoo?
Oh, no, never... nothing like that... never crossed my mind.
No need lie, boy. I no hurt you. Do I look like I wanna hurt you?
Well, er... no. I mean, you don't look like dragons I've heard of.
Course not. I no flum here. I come flum Cathay.
Cathay?
Country fa' fa' away. To the East, beyond the lising sun...
East of Mercia?
You got no idee. People there lookee diffelent; speakee diffelent. Nothing the same. In my countlee I bling good luck. Makee lain and thunder.
You don't ravage the countryside, devouring maidens and burning the crops?
Dlagon not like that. Dlagon is spilit of life... spilit of stlength and goodness.
Then you'll understand my quest. An ogre named Blackheart has killed the last stag unicorn and stolen his horn. The world outside is cursed, plunged into eternal winter. Unless I return the alicorn, the earth will be frozen forever.
Flozen foleva not good.
It's terrible.
An' how you do it? How you rift cuss?
I need your help. In order to fight Blackheart, I must wear the armor of Achilles. I 
You come stealee tleasoo?
Oh no... Don't you understand?
No, wait... please... listen...
No more listening! Your time is at an end, insignificant whelp!
My generosity is not so large as that.
What do you want with me?
Your love.
Your words sting more sharply than your whip.
I speak of love, and you think only of the lash.
You are cruel! Your heartless jesting worse than torture! How can you speak of love when you see what I am!
I like well what I see. It pleases me.
But I'm hideous!
You're magnificent.
Grotesque... monstrous...
On the contrary! The puling, pallid creature you were before was truly something disgusting. Now you are splendid... a fierce goddess... the embodiment of all that is strong and beautiful.
You lie! You wish to humiliate me, as if the form I'm forced to bear were not punishment enough!
You should glory in your animal nature. It is your triumph! None know that better than I!
God protect me.
Not from me, surely...
You... you're a beast!
We're all of us beasts, my dear. Only most are afraid to show it.
And you... are you not also afraid?
I am afraid of nothing.
Then why hide behind a mask? You are ashamed!
I know no more of shame than I do of fear. I wear this mask not for concealment but protection.
Protection?
I am a creature of darkness. I require the shadow's solace and the black of night... Sunlight is abhorrent to me... I cover myself completely whenever I venture forth in daylight... Sunshine is my destroyer.
Like some vile toadstool.
I prefer to think, more like the sagacious owl.
Do you feed on mice and rats?
I prefer a plump capon, but will happily serve you rats if they're to your liking.
Why have you brought me here?
To be my bride, of course.
I'd soon die.
Damn you!
We're both of us damned, my beauty.
When the time's come, you won't need to jump, I'll throw you out myself!
Do it now!
No. Now is the time for discipline. Some lessons in obedience for the future Baroness.
Jack... Oh, Jack... Help me...
Too bad your precious Jack can't hear you... the damsel in distress... A rescue attempt would be most amusing... We could flay sweet Jack alive as an afterdinner entertainment...
Your moans seem almost pleasurable, my dear... developing a taste for the lash?
Kill me... I want... so nice...
Why should I kill you? A simple course in etiquette... something your parents sadly overlooked.
No more... please...
I can keep a victim alive for weeks... months, if I desire it... it's an art. They beg for death... I keep it just out of their reach. The pain remains constant.
Don't please... I'll do what you desire...
Sweet Princess, you begin to sound most reasonable.
What do you want from me?
At the moment, very little. Your company at my table...
We'll get you cleaned up, find a suitable gown... I imagine you'll enjoy a good meal?
Oh, yes...
A few day's nourishment will see your strength returning.
And then?
Yes?
What will become of me then?
When you are ripe for my pleasure, I will enjoy the harvest.
I see...
I'm pleased you're not troubled by the prospect...
Do as you wish with my body, you'll never possess my soul!
Your soul...? Why should I bother with such a paltry trifle?
I don't expect you'd understand.
My dear Princess, the human soul is a highly elusive commodity. I suggest you spend some hours before the glass. Contemplate your intriguing reflection and consider whether such a creature as yourself could possibly possess something as fine and beautiful as a soul.
You're a beast!
Indeed I am, my dear... that makes us a pair!
What was that? Did you hear that?
It's nothing. My men take great delight in routing the enemy. Don't trouble yourself, beauty.
It sounded like it came from the courtyard.
From the parapets most likely. The men are amused by a battlefield entertainment of my own contriving.
Might we watch, too?
Later, beloved... Now I wish only to be with you...
And I with you... I never dreamed life held such pleasures...
Pleasure is for those who seize it! Do you think those insipid, pale skinned mortals will ever know such rapture?
It's odd... when I first found myself... changing... I was sick with loathing and disgust. I thought I was so ugly I wanted to die...
And, now?
Now I want to live forever. I've never felt so strong or happy.
Or looked so beautiful...
Yes. I feel that, too. Weakness is what is ugly.
Precisely, my darling. Your animal strength, your primitive power has surfaced... you are what you desire.
To be strong and free... that is all I desire.
So you shall be... Like our brothers, the hawk and the wolf, our spirits know no master... we are created in the pure image of the savage God that set our turbulent universe in motion.
What?
Delusion... a kind of magic which works against the magician.
Dumb magic. Giant smash peewee.
Always.
We go out, smash 'em now?
No. Smashing is not required. I have a surprise for our tiny invaders... Raise that hatch!
Birdies... pretty...
I doubt the faeries will admire their beauty... Come, this will be fun to watch.
We watch... good fun...
Indeed, the best of fun... Enjoy yourselves.
More fun win battle?
This is another victory, my friends. What began with the lash shall be concluded with a caress.
You go to lady now?
To finish last evening's delightful work.
Why so few?
Faith.
Fool's magic.
Precisely. Faith has persuaded them a pygmie with a sling can kill an armed giant.
Fight's over before it's begun... soon the survivors will be in full retreat.
Then we smash 'em?
Anything left for smashing you may happily smash.
You go? Not watch fun?
I have something far more pleasant awaiting me.
We come watch... we come watch...
Nay. This is a private affair, no audience welcome... Better you watch the dismantling of our enemies... and, look you, see the moat is set aflame.
Fire moat... why do that?
Purely a precaution...
Elle?
Where's the Rock?
Is it a Kappa?
It's not a Theta 
Oh, God. What if Josh doesn't think I'm serious enough?
Helloo... you let him have anal sex with you. Helloo... you let him videotape you diddling yourself.
You're right. Phew!
What's the thing that always makes us feel better, no matter what?
Cunnilingus?
Let's all go! Road trip!
Wait  Cecil has a condo in Tahoe. Let's go there!
Why?!
I mean, I know you're upset and all, but can't you just take a sedative?
You passed Spanish because you gave Professor Montoya a handjob after the final.
Yeah, luckily.
There he is!
Pull up next to him!
She's naked.
I'm covered in very expensive Egyptian mud  hardly naked.
So, I hear the tart from California shot Heyworth.
Well, that's what we're trying to prove didn't happen. Do you have any reason to believe it did?
I never met the woman, but from what my daughter tells me, she's quite the cun 
Aside from the fact that he found her on an infomercial? She said they humped like gorillas. Chutney could hear them all the way in the pool house.
I' m sure that was very awkward for Chutney. Much as it is for me, hearing you tell about it.
But I guess it wasn't enough for Brooke.
Why do you say that?
Haven't you seen the cabana boy?
Hovering?
I didn't stick around long enough to watch him stick his swizzle stick in her mouth, but I'd bet my next check that that's where he was about to put it.
Did you ever take Mrs. Windham on a date?
Yes.
Where?
A restaurant in Oakland. Where no one would recognize us.
And how long have you been sleeping with Mrs. Windham?
Three months.
And what is your boyfriend's name?
Chuck.
You're beautiful.
So are you!
I'm fully amenable to that discussion.
I mean, we're having a lot of fun now  but things are gonna be different when I'm at Harvard. Law school is a completely different world. I need to be serious.
Of course.
My family expects a lot from me. And I expect a lot from me. I plan on running for office some day.
And I fully support that.
But the thing is, if I'm gonna be a senator by the time I'm thirty  I can't keep dicking around.
I completely agree.
That's why I think it's time for us to 
I'm sorry, Elle, I just 
You're breaking up with me?! I thought you were proposing.
Proposing?! Elle, If I'm going to be a politician, I need to marry a Jackie, not a  Marilyn.
You're breaking up with me because I'm too  blonde?
That's not entirely 
Then what? My boobs are too big?
Elle  no  your boobs are fine 
C'mon. Let me take you home.
No.
Elle  it's twenty miles back to campus.
Elle, believe me, I never expected to be doing this, but I think it's the right thing to do.
How can it be the right thing if we're not together?
I have to think about my future. And what people expect from me.
So you're breaking up with me because you're afraid your family won't like me? Everybody likes me!
East coast people are different.
Just because I'm not a Vanderbilt, all of a sudden I'm white trash? I grew up in Bel Air, Warner! Across the street from Aaron Spelling! I think most people would agree that's way better than a Vanderbilt 
I told you, Elle. I need someone  serious.
I'm seriously in love with you  Isn't that enough?
What're you talking about? You're not here to see me?
No, silly. I go here.
You go where?
Harvard. Law school.
You got into Harvard Law?
What, like it's that hard?
Oops! Time for class. Meet me after? On the benches?
Uh  sure.
So  uh  how was your first class?
Fine. Except for this horrible girl who made me look bad in front of my Civ Pro professor. But no biggie. You're here now. How was your summer?
Good. Good.
Do anything exciting?
I'm sorry, I just hallucinated.
Sarah was my girlfriend at prep school. We got back together over the summer at my grandmother's birthday party.
Wow. You're a walking felony.
Thank you. Having fun?
Now I am.
I feel like we've barely spent any time together since we got here.
That's because I spend all my time with case studies and hypos.
Tell me about it. I can't imagine doing all this and Donovan's internship next year.
Elle, c'mon, there's no way you'll get the grades to qualify for one of those spots. You're not smart enough.
I didn't mean 
Am I on glue, or did I not get into the same law school you did, Warner?
Well, yeah, but 
But what? We took the same LSAT, we take the same classes 
I just don't want to see you get your hopes up. You know how you get.
You look  nice.
Thank you.
If you tell him, you'll probably make summer associate. Who cares about Brooke? Think about yourself.
I gave her my word, Warner.
Pink ones.
See?
Thanks for the backup.
How was I supposed to know what kind of shoes you had on?
It made me realize something. I'm an idiot.
Really?
In court. On opposing sides.
Are you serious?
Huh. Imagine that. Looks like I am.
Class schedule, map, book list.
Has Warner Huntington checked in yet?
Uh, no. Maybe you should try the Lido deck.
Wait  my social events schedule is missing.
Your what?
You know  mixers, formals, beach trips.
There's a pizza welcome lunch in twenty minutes. Does that count?
I guess it'll have to...
Neither.
Why not?
I'd rather have a client who's innocent.
Yes? Ms. Woods?
I changed my mind. I'd pick the dangerous one.
I did?
You're applying for my internship, aren't you?
I don't know 
You should. Do you have a resume?
I do.
It's pink.
And engraved... Gives it that extra little something, doesn't it? See you tomorrow!
Maiden name  Daniels. You know her?
She was a Delta Gamma! Not in my pledge class or anything  she graduated five years ahead of me. But I used to take her class at the LA Sports Club. She's amazing!
Amazing how?
She could make you drop three pounds in one class. She's completely gifted!
Well, in all likelihood, she's completely guilty as well. She was seen standing over her husband's dead body.
His twentyseven year old daughter and the pool boy.
Maybe she found him like that.
That's the story she'll be telling the jury. We just have to prove it.
You don't really believe she's innocent?
Of course, I do!
But I'm not positive it's gonna happen tonight 
Helloo... he just had lunch with his grandmother. You know he got "The Rock".
No  it's just  not me.
I'm canceling the mixer. We'll blacklist Sigma Chi.
Thank you, Serena, but I don't think it'll do any good.
What happened?
Oh, he is so over on this campus.
I just don't understand what went wrong 
How could this happen?
I don't know! I don't know anything any more! I just need to be by myself.
Are you sure?
Girls  I'm going to Harvard!
What, like on vakay?
Calvin Klein's spring line is atrocious. Don't you agree?
Absolutely!
Almost.
Well, hurry up so you can come home! We miss you!
I miss you guys! The people here are so vile! Hardly anyone even talks to me unless it's to say something that's not nice. Law school sucks!
Oh, my God! I completely forgot to tell you!
What?
I got bangs!
Really 
What're you doing here?!
We're on our way to the bridal show in New York so we thought we'd rescue you from law school for the night.
You guys  I can't. We're in the middle of a trial.
Where's Warner?
I wish we could stay longer, but I have a game.
I can't believe you're a Laker Girl!
Do they just  put you on the spot like that? Like, all the time?
The professors? Yeah, they tend to do that. Socratic method.
And if you don't know the answer, they just kick you out?
You have Stromwell.
Did she do that to you, too?
No, but she made me cry once. Not in class  I waited until I got to my room, but yeah, she can pretty much shrivel your balls  or you know, your whatevers.
Neat.
Don't worry. It gets better. Who else do you have?
Donovan, Royalton and Levinson.
Speak up in Donovan's class. He likes people with an opinion. Sit in the back for Royalton. He tends to spit when he talks about products liability.
And make sure you read the footnotes in Levinson's class. That's where all her exam questions come from.
Wow. I'm glad I met you.
Good luck.
Thanks again for your help!
Don't ask.
I wasn't gonna 
Okay, if Brooke didn't kill the guy, who did?
My money's on the angry daughter or the exwife.
Explain to me why you're so anti Brooke.
Uh, for starters, she won't give us an alibi 
Aside from that.
She's completely untrustworthy.
Why?
She married an old man, she's made a living on telling women they're too fat, she hawks her crap on the Home Shopping Network...
A) He's an old man with a really big penis. B) She never told me I was fat. And C) Victoria Principal sells on that network.
And D) Brooke is obviously hiding something.
But maybe it's not what you think.
But maybe it is 
You're kind of being a butthead right now.
How do you figure?
Because people aren't always what they seem to be and you refuse to see that. Have a little faith. You might be surprised.
I can't believe you called me a butthead. No one's called me a butt head since ninth grade.
Maybe not to your face...
Damn. We can't see her for an hour?
No, she can't move for an hour.
Mrs. Windham Vandermark?
We're here from Austen, Platt, Jaret & Donovan 
She's not!
Did your daughter ever say anything to you about Brooke and Heyworth's relationship?
How can you still believe she's innocent?
You're going to trust the word of a woman who named her child after a condiment? She's lying.
And you know this for a fact?
Did you see the icky black color of her hair?
So?
I never trust a woman who's not blonde. Except for my friend Serena, but that's only because she's a blonde at heart. That's the whole reason I'm starting the Blonde Legal Defense Fund.
The what?
Blondes are discriminated against worldwide! Brooke's a blonde, and people are saying she's sleeping with the cheesy pool boy and shooting her husband. If she was a mousy brunette, it would be, "Oh, the poor widow."
You're serious?
Okay, how would it work?
It would be a fullservice law firm, by and for blondes, providing positive blonde role models and community outreach in high blonde areas. I mean, think about it  name one blonde intellectual role model.
I can't.
That is a direct result of anti blonde discrimination!
Wait  Hilary Clinton.
If she were a true blonde, she would've left the cheating bastard. Blondes don't let their husbands get fellated by brunettes and live to tell about it.
In that case, maybe Heyworth got fellated by a brunette and Brooke caught him.
Exactly how much gorilla sex do you think a sixtyyearold man can take?
That's not really a topic that keeps me up at night  but maybe it should.
What the hell is that for?
The bags under your eyes. You're an attractive man, but you need to take better care of yourself.
I don't  Do that stuff.
Well, you should  If you look good, you feel good and if you feel good, you project joy into the world.
Projecting joy is not my job.
Fine. Sorry I brought it up.
You really think I'm attractive?
For a butthead? Yes.
He's gay! Enrique is gay!
What?!
Back up. How do you know he's gay?
Gay men know designers. Straight men don't.
Hey 
I'm quitting.
Whoa  Why?
Law school was a mistake. Getting this internship was a mistake.
What're you talking about? You earned it 
So now you're  ?
Going back to LA. Maybe I can fulfill my destiny as a useless bimbo and join the Swedish Bikini Team. No more navy blue suits. No more panty hose. No more trying to be something I'm not.
What if you're trying to be something you are? The hell with Donovan. Stay.
Oh, my God!
Oh, my God!!
Up for a celebration dinner?
Are you asking me on a date?
As long as you realize I'm not just some mantoy you can show off like a trophy.
Then, forget it. Besides, I have an early class tomorrow.
So Friday at eight?
Someone missed you.
Is he the only one?
What do you think?
Can someone please tell Rick that he is not the only Sigma Chi with a big penis?
You guys are so sweet!
Why else would she have flown in from Newport? It's not like she'd Fed Ex a six carat diamond.
You think?
Too demure?
I think you should go with red. It's the color of confidence.
Well, I don't want to look like I know what's coming...
What if  you know  it's not the night?
Why else would he be taking you to The Ivy? You've been dating for a year  it's not like he's trying to impress you.
I don't know! Everything was normal at first and then he said he needed someone more  Serious!
Serious?! Who the hell does he think he is? You're the most popular month on the USC calendar!
We still love you. Sisters forever!
Thank you. I love you, too.
Honey, stop! You have to leave this room  it's been a week.
So?
Once Warner sees me as a serious law student, he'll want me back. It's a completely brilliant plan!
But isn't it kind of hard to get into law school?
I have the highest GPA in Delta Gamma!
Here. You're gonna need this.
Your scrunchie?
My lucky scrunchie. It helped me pass Spanish.
Elle, do you know what happened on "Days of Our Lives" yesterday?
Why, yes, Margot, I do. Once again, we joined Hope in the search for her identity. As you know, she's been brainwashed by the evil Stefano 
It's Elle! Guess what I'm doing right this second?
Power yoga?
Picking out my wedding dress!
What?!
Josh proposed!
No way 
Keep June first open  you're one of my bridesmaids. And give Warner our love.
I will...
Oh, how sweet! You made friends with a nerdy girl.
Margot!
Speaking of which, can you please put on some party clothes? You look like someone rolled you in something sticky and dragged you through a K Mart.
I can't believe you guys are actually here  but this case is important. I'll make it up to you after finals, okay? I  promise. I really want to do a good job.
Hello! You're like, a lawyer.
Not yet.
Hi. Sarah Knottingham.
You know her?
Our group is full.
Oh, God, was this like an RSVP thing?
The idiot speaks.
Although Mr. Huntington makes an excellent point, I have to wonder if the defendant kept a thorough record of each sperm emission made throughout his life?
I believe her, too. I don't think she's having an affair with Enrique.
Too bad you and I are the only ones.
I'm still can't believe you didn't tell Donovan the alibi.
It's not my alibi to tell 
I know. I thought that was very  classy of you.
Really? Thanks.
Warner can't even do his own laundry.
I know. He has it sent out.
Did you know he got waitlisted when he applied? His father had to make a call.
You're kidding!
Donovan asked to see you before you leave.
Really?
He's already got his coffee  maybe he needs a donut.
You almost had me fooled.
What?
Maybe you should sleep with the judge too. Then we can win the case.
I'm a bitch.
Yes, you are.
And Donovan's a scumbag for coming on to you.
Yes, he is.
You're pawning The Rock?!
Hell, yes. We've got finals to study for. In Jamaica.
I'm here to see Brooke Windham.
Licensed attorney or family member?
Uh  family.
Relation?
I'm her sister.
Name?
Delta. Gamma.
You can't even imagine.
Spill.
After you went to all that trouble?
Well, what am I supposed to do? He's engaged! She's got the family six carat on her bony, unpolished finger.
You're asking the wrong girl. I'm with my guy eight years and then one day it's "I met someone else. Move out."
What'd you do?
Cried a lot and gained twenty pounds. Dewey kept the trailer and my precious baby Rufus. I got jackcrap.
I didn't even get to go to his birthday party.
No!
What could I do? He's a man who followed his pecker to greener pastures. I'm a middle aged highschool dropout with stretch marks and a fat ass. Happens every day. At least to women like me.
That's terrible!
So, what's this Sarah got that you don't? Three tits?
She's from Connecticut. She belongs to his stupid country club.
Is she as pretty as you?
Is she?
She could use some mascara and some serious highlights, but she's not completely unfortunatelooking.
Could I be anymore goddamn spastic? So you're sure, this Warner guy is "the one"?
Definitely! I love him!
You showed up Warner in class? You're supposed to be showing up Sarah.
I couldn't help it! It was the most fun I've had since I've been in law school. Not only was I good enough for Warner  I was better than him. He has to see serious I am now. Even Donovan was impressed, and he's a total hardass.
You ready?
No.
Yes, you are. Go  you can do this.
God, that felt great!
Look at him. He's still scratching his head.
Which must be a nice vacation for his balls...
I feel so bad for her. I mean, she's in jail! And she's innocent. But I'm the only one who believes her. Donovan totally thinks she's guilty.
That's because men are big, fat retards who don't  Oh, my God...
So, this is the only interaction you two have ever had?
No. Sometimes I say "Okay" instead of "Fine".
Have you ever considered asking him if he'd like a cold beverage? Or perhaps a neck massage?
What's the point? Look at me.
I am. And I'm looking at a beautiful, fabulous, sexy woman.
Good one.
Trust me. You've got the equipment, you just need to read the manual.
And after they set his nose, he came back for his truck and I offered to drive for him since he was still on painkillers and we spent the whole afternoon together! He was unconscious for part of it, but it was really fun!
I'm so happy for you!
How'd it go at the trial?
Great. Donovan actually said the words "Good work, Ms. Woods". He takes me seriously! Can you believe it?
Of course I can believe it. You're going to make a great lawyer.
You can't go home!
What's the point of staying? All people see when they look at me is blonde hair and big boobs. No one's ever going to take me seriously. The people at law school don't, Warner doesn't  I don't even think my parents take me seriously. They wanted me to grow up and become a Victoria's Secret model who marries a rock star. Now, for the first time, it seemed like someone expected me to do something better with my life than wear underwear for a living. But I was kidding myself  Donovan didn't see me as a lawyer. He saw me as a piece of ass just like everyone else. It turns out, I am a joke.
Yes?
Aristotle.
Yes?
Would you be willing to stake your life on it?
I think so...
How about 
 his life?
I don't know.
Well, I recommend knowing before speaking. The law leaves much room for interpretation  but very little for selfdoubt.
What's going on?
Donovan's firm is defending a major murder case and his caseload is so heavy he's taking on first year interns.
He chose them already?
Why didn't you call me?
What?
We spend a beautiful night together and then I never hear from you again?
 uh 
I'm sorry?
For what? Breaking my heart or ruining sex for me with any other man?
Uh  both?
Forget it. I've already spent too many hours crying over you.
Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court Rule 3:03.
See?
What did you see when you entered the house?
I saw Mrs. Windham standing over the body of Mr. Windham.
Was she carrying a weapon?
No, she was crying her eyes out.
So she was distraught that her husband was dead?
Oh, yes. Mrs. Windham is the most sweet, wonderful woman I know. I have loved her since the day she hired me. She could never do something this awful. I know this because we are very close.
Mr. Salvatore, do you have any proof that you and Mrs. Windham were having an affair?
Just the love in my heart.
All I know is  it's not Brooke.
That's touching, Elle, but we need an alibi.
Did you get it?
Yes. But I can't tell you what it is.
Why the hell not?
I promised her I'd keep it secret. I can't break the bonds of sisterhood!
What are you talking about?
He's gay  he isn't Brooke's lover! He's making it up. Whoever killed Heyworth is paying him off.
Good work today, Ms. Woods.
Thank you!
Sit down.
Is everything okay?
You followed your intuition today and you were right on target. I should've listened.
Thank you.
About the alibi 
I'm sorry, but 
I'm impressed that you took the initiative to go there and get it. That's what makes a good lawyer. And on top of that, you gained the client's trust and kept it. That's what makes a great lawyer. You're smart, Elle. Smarter than most of the guys I have on my payroll.
I think it's time discuss your career path. Have you thought about where you might be a summer associate?
Not really. I know how competitive it all is 
You're hitting on me?
You're a beautiful girl, Elle.
So everything you just said 
I'm a man who knows what I want.
You're not going up there.
Yes, I am.
I do. I'm not allowing it.
But you agreed last night. In the office? When we were discussing my "career"?
Dewey Newcomb?
Who's askin'?
I'm Elle Woods. Ms. Bonafante's attorney.
Come again?
Due to the fact that you retained the residence, Ms. Bonafante is entitled to full ownership of the canine property in question and we will be enforcing said ownership immediately.
Huh?
Tell him, Paulette.
Okay  Ms. Windham, when you uh arrived back at the house? Was your father there?
Not that I saw. But like I said, I went straight upstairs to take a shower.
And when you came downstairs, what happened?
I saw Brooke standing over his body, drenched in his blood.
But Mrs. Windham didn't have a gun?
No, she'd stashed it by then.
Did you hear a shot fired?
No. I was in the shower.
So at some point in the  twenty minutes you were in the shower, your father was shot?
I guess.
But you didn't hear the shot, because you were in the shower.
Yes. I was washing my hair.
Miss Windham, can you tell us what you'd been doing earlier in the day?
I got up, went to Starbucks, went to the gym, got a perm, and came home.
Where you got in the shower.
Yes.
Yes, Your Honor. Had you ever gotten a perm before, Miss Windham?
Yes.
How many, would you say?
Two a year since I was twelve. You do the math.
You know, a girl in my sorority, Tracy Marcinko, got a perm once. Even though we all told her not to. Curls really weren't the right look for her  She didn't have your bone structure.
Chutney, why is it that Tracy Marcinko's curls were ruined when she got hosed down?
Because they got wet.
That's right. Because isn't the first cardinal rule of perm maintenance that you are forbidden to wet your hair for at least twentyfour hours after getting a perm at the risk of deactivating the ammonium thiglycolate?
And if you in fact, heard the gunshot, then Brooke Windham wouldn't have had time to hide the gun before you got downstairs. Which would mean that you would've had to have found Mrs. Windham with a gun in her hand to make your story sound plausible. Isn't that right?
She's younger than I am. Did she tell you that? How would you feel if your father married someone younger than you?
You, however, had time to hide the gun, didn't you, Chutney? After you shot your father?
I got out of the shower, walked downstairs, saw her standing over my father, and called the police.
Did she have a weapon in her hand?
No.
Was there any reason for you to believe she had discarded a weapon?
Uh, yeah, because the bitch shot him.
Was there any evidence that Mrs. Windham shot him?
His dead body with a bullet in it.
I'm a Delta Gamma and I'm a huge fan of yours!
You took my class in LA. You had the best high kick I've ever seen. Are you one of my lawyers?
Sort of.
Are you okay? You look so sad... and so orange.
I'm glad it's you and not Donovan.
He means well. He's really brilliant and all.
Elle, I can't. You don't understand.
Who could better understand than me?
It's so shameful...
Whatever it is  it could save you.
That's just it  it would ruin me!
How?
I have made my fortune on my ability to teach women how to perfect their bodies with the Brooke's Butt Buster workout.
I know! You helped me go from a six to a four!
No!
I'm a fraud! But it's not like normal people can have this ass! If my fans knew, I'd lose everything. I've already lost my husband. I rather be in jail then lose my reputation!
I'm not having an affair with Enrique  you know a Delta Gamma would never sleep with a man who wears a thong! I just liked watching him bend over to clean the filter 
I believe you! Don't worry.
What's going on?
Enrique's gay. I'm sure of it.
He did leave a Cher tape in the pool house once 
Is he always such an ass?
He's the top defense attorney in the state. Of course he's an ass.
But is he an ass that's gonna win my case?
He's an ass that's gonna try.
He thinks I'm guilty, doesn't he?
That's not what's important.
To me it is. He doesn't trust me. Why should I trust him?
What alibi?
I can't tell you.
You understand you're on trial for murder?
I didn't do it! I walked in, saw my husband lying on the floor, bent down to check his heart, screamed my head off and Chutney and Enrique ran inside.
Where they saw you standing over the body covered in his blood.
Why would I kill my husband?
Insurance? A love affair? Pure unadulterated hatred? Believe me, the DA will come up with plenty of reasons.
I loved him!
He was thirtyfour years older than you. That doesn't sound so good to a jury.
Brooke, I believe you. But a jury is gonna want an alibi.
I can't give you that. And if you put me on the stand, I'll lie.
Were you with another man?
Go to hell.
I'll take that as a no.
Are we done for today?
I believe we are.
What're you so happy about? You're on trial for murder.
Get up.
What?
You're fired. I have new representation.
Who?
Harvard Law School?
That's right.
But it's a top three school 
I have a 4.0.
Yes, but your major is Fashion Merchandising. Harvard won't be impressed that you aced "History of Lycra". What are your backups?
I don't need backups. Harvard is the school I'm going to.
Well, then. You'll need excellent recommendations from your professors, a heck of an admissions essay and at least a oneseventyfive on your LSATs.
I once had to judge a Theta Chi Tighty Whitey contest. Trust me  I can handle anything.
I don't want this. Yuri, please. I really don't want this. You know I don't like to do groups.
I want this, Sera. I need this!
Please, Yuri.
You have been lonely?
I've been all right.
I will keep you safe. We are both older.
You have been lonely?
I am lonely, Yuri.
I'm pleased with you, Sera... how you have moved up in the world. I showed you a glamorous world when I took you off the streets... and how you repay me.
Where have you been staying?
With an old friend.
It is, after all, Sera, my money.
Yes, of course. How much do you need?
All of it. I need to buy many things... all of it!
Where have you been?
It was a slow night. I went to a hotel for a few drinks.
A full night on the street and this is all?
Like I said... it was a slow night... I'm sorry. It was hard to score.
Don't hit me.
What do you think... you are sixteen years old on Hollywood Boulevard?
Yes? What?
It's me, Yuri.
Have you told anyone that I'm here?
No.
Go, Sera. Go. Stay at home. I will call you tomorrow.
Yuri... are you...
Sera... please go.
About ready for another drink?
Yes, that would be great. Are you her for the convention?
Do I look that obvious? My name's Paul.
So... are you alone, or are you just using me to make someone else jealous?
Alone. Alone. I'm here alone.
Where are you staying?
Right here at the hotel. Why?
Well... I thought you might be looking for a date.
A date. What, are you a hooker? What do you mean a date? I've got a wife back home. I just came over to talk for a few minutes.
I'm sorry, I guess I misunderstood.
Please don't raise your voice. I won't bother you about it again.
Sorry. Look... you seem like a nice girl. I'm just sick of everyone in this town trying to get my money.
Hey, Brad... how's it going?
Hey Ben. There were a couple of guys looking for you.
What did they look like?
Suits. I didn't tell them anything. You know anything about gears?
How'd this happen?
I was going real fast down on the beach and something slipped and everything got jammed up.
The news is not good, kid. This bit here... see there... it's broken. You need a new one.
How much, do you think?
I don't know. I'll find out though.
Hello!
Hello.
Are you working?
Working? What do you mean, working? I'm walking.
Isn't it illegal to drink and drive?
That's funny. I wonder if you'll take two hundred and fifty dollars to fuck me?
That is, if you'll come to my room for an hour, I will give you five hundred dollars.
Maybe you shouldn't stand in the road like that. You're pretty drunk.
You're pretty drunk.
Not really. My room's not far. The Whole Year Inn. You can drive with me if you want...
Sarah  with an H?
No  S.E.R.A.
I'm sort of curious... if you're willing to pay me twofifty... not that I mind... I mean, I'm OK with that  why aren't you staying in a hotel?
We can go to one if you'd prefer.
No, this is fine. I was just wondering.
Umm. We can stay in the car for an hour if you want. But I really have to go then. It's your time.
Right, I'll get your door. I tend to fade in and out lately.
I guess I do too.
You what?
I sometimes fade out.
Oh... well, maybe we better synchronize our spells... or stagger them.
You were going to get my door.
Mind if I use the bathroom?
Of course.
Want a drink? I'm having one.
A shot of tequila, if you can spare it.
Of course.
Do you want to fuck now?
Maybe another drink first. More tequila?
OK... whatever.
What's the story? Are you too drunk to come?
I don't care about that. There's time left. You can have more money. You can drink all you want. You can talk or listen. Just stay, that's all I want.
No, I came here to drink... myself... you know...
To death?
Yes, that's right.
I cashed in all of my money, paid my AmEx card, gonna sell the car tomorrow.
How long's it gonna take, for you to drink yourself to death?
I think about four weeks, and I've got enough for about two hundred and fifty to three hundred dollars a day.
Yes... that should do it. What am I? A luxury?
Yeah. And your meter just ran out.
If I was I'm sorry.
No, just drunk... but that's OK. Where's your car?
I sold it this morning. I'm going to take cabs from now on in.
Don't run away.
Why should I? I know you're not a cop, so what is it tonight? Another twofifty to watch you sleep?
What's up?
I was looking for you tonight. I don't know if you have a boyfriend...
...or a girlfriend, but if you have some free time... maybe we could have dinner.
Are you serious.
I think you know I'm serious. I'll pay you if you like... but I'd like to see you.
No, I can't have dinner with you.
Yes.
I have to change and take a shower first. If you want to come home and wait.
We should pick up a bottle of tequila on the way. I owe you one.
You do?
This is the home of an angel.
You OK out there?
Yes. Take your time. I'm fine.
You OK?
Of course. Wow... you look extremely beautiful.
Thank you. What time is it?
Don't know. My watch went the way of the car.
I'm rambling. I really like you. You make me want to talk... I don't know what time it is.
I like hearing you talk. If you feel up to a short walk, there's a place to eat around the corner. All the food in Vegas is terrible so the place doesn't really matter. How does that sound to you?
Do they have drinks?
I'm from the East. I went to college, did an arts course. I now live in Vegas. I think of it as home. I came here deliberately to carve out a life. I was in LA before, but I'll come back to that later. The tough times are behind me now. I can deal with the bad things that happen. There will always be dark characters. But my life is good. It is as I would want it to be. So, why are you a drunk?
Is that really what you want to ask me?
Yes.
Well, then I guess this is our first date... or our last. Until now, I wasn't sure it was either.
Very clever.
First. It's our first. I'm just concerned. So... why are you killing yourself?
Interesting choice of words. I don't remember. I just know that I want to.
Want to kill yourself? Are you saying that you're drinking as a way to kill yourself?
It wasn't so important to me. I mean, he never asked me why I was a hooker, and that was impressive. I really liked him. So I decided to just play my part. I mean... it's good to help someone once in a while, it's a bonus to being alive, and that was my plan... to stay alive. I suddenly came to a decision.
What are you thinking? Are you angry with me?
Ben, why don't you stay at my place tonight? I mean... look, you're so drunk. I like you. I trust you.
That's astonishing. Sera, look...
I hate to think of you in that cheesy motel. I mean...
Let's face it, what the fuck are you doing in Las Vegas?
I'm going to move to a smart hotel, tomorrow if it'll make you feel better. Let's talk about tomorrow. Wanna do something?
Sure... tonight. Then please stay at my place.
Sera... you know I'm not much good in the sack.
It's not about sex, Ben. I'll make you up a bed on the sofa. Do it for me. We can talk till late and then sleep till late. As you know, I am my own boss.
How long have I been here?
Three nights, two days. When is your rent coming up at the motel?
I don't know. I'll go and sort it out today. Why don't you come?... We'll find a real room for me. You can pick it out, a tower on the strip.
There's no reason to blow all your money on a hotel room.
What do you mean?
What I mean is that you should bring your stuff over here. We're spending all this time together... what the fuck!
Sera...
Let's face it, Ben, we're having fun here. I've never done so much talking in my life.
Me neither.
So! Let's dispense with the formalities. I want you here... now!
Sera you are crazy.
So... I'm not too concerned with long term plans.
Don't you think you'll get a little bored living with a drunk?
That is what I want. Why don't you go and get your stuff?
You haven't seen the worst of it. These last few days I've been very controlled. I knock things over... I throw up all the time. Now I feel really good... You're like some kind of antidote that mixes the liquor and keeps me in balance, but that won't last forever. You'll get tired of it really quickly. Believe me.
Don't you like me, Ben?
Don't be silly?
Sera... what you don't understand is...
What?
You can never... never... ask me to stop drinking. Do you understand?
I do. I really do. OK. I have to do some shopping alone. You go out for a few drinks and then pick up your things. Don't hurry and I'll be back before you to let you in.
Hi!
Why don't you go in and sit down. I have some gifts for you.
Right... OK...
Want a drink? Great nap. Wanna go out tonight?
Seriously, Ben... I need to keep pretty lowkey around here. Maybe next time you could nap this side of the door. That was the landlord.
Of course.
Ben?
Sorry.
Sera, I love that name... S.E.R.A. Before we proceed onwards, there is something I need to say. OK?
OK.
I've come this far... here I am, in your house. I want you to let me pay the rent for this month. All right?
Why?
Because... it's better for me that way. OK?
Well... OK...
Sera... I hope that you understand how I feel about this. First of all, you're welcome to my money. We can buy a couple of cases of liquor and you can have the rest. But I don't think you're talking to me right now about money.
No?
No. I think you're talking about you. I'll tell you right now that I'm in love with you... but, be that as it may, I'm not here to force my twisted life into your soul.
I know that...
...and I'm not here to demand your attention to the point where it changes your life. We know I'm a drunk... but that seems to be all right with you. And I know that you're a hooker. I hope you understand that I'm a person who is totally at ease with this... which is not to say that I'm indifferent or that I don't care... I do... it simply means that I trust and accept your judgement. What I'm saying is... that I hope you understand that I understand.
Thanks, I do understand. I was worried about how that would be... but now I'm not. And you should know that included with the rent here is a complimentary blow job.
Ah, yes... I suppose sooner or later we ought to fuck.
Whatever that means. Open your presents.
Right... the suitcase was clinking. So what did you do with your clothes?
I threw them into the garbage, which was perhaps immoral, but I wanted to come to you clean, so to speak. I thought we could go shopping and pick up a pair of jeans and forty five pairs of underwear and just throw them out each day.
Nice talk, Ben. Keep drinking. In between the hundred and one proof breath and the occasional drool, some interesting words fall from your mouth.
I'm going to fill it right now.
Do you want to go gambling tonight? We could go out and play for a few hours.
Giving you money makes me want to come.
Then come. I'm going to change. Watch TV. I'll be half an hour.
I am planning to go out and do some work.
When?
Tomorrow night as a matter of fact.
I like women who wear mismatched earrings.
Well, then... I hope we don't run into any tonight.
What do you mean?
I expect some kind of loyalty here. Just because I fuck for money doesn't give you cause to start picking up women and leaving me looking silly.
How are you doing?
Very well... umm... I never expected to have to ask you this again... but how did our evening go? I remember getting to the casino... I remember kissing you... that was really nice but everything after that is a blank.
Well  I was prepared for worse, but it wasn't so bad. We were sitting at the bar, talking about blackjack. You seemed just fine, a little drunker than usual, but nothing really strange, but then your head started to droop and I put my arm on your shoulder and then, wham, you swung you arm at me, and fell backwards off your stool into a cocktail waitress. You smashed everything on her tray, it was a real mess. You kept yelling and yelling.
Oh, and what did you do?
I tried to shut you up and help you to your feet but you kept swinging at me  not like you wanted to hit me, but more just waving me away. Security came and when you saw them you stopped yelling. They wanted to carry you out and dump you on the street, but I talked them into letting me walk you out.
That's impressive. How did you do that?
I told them you were an alcoholic and I would take you home. I also promised that we would never come in there again.
We?
You were OK for a while, so we walked for about a block and then you said you wanted to go home and fuck, but I think even you knew that wasn't going to happen. We got a cab and you asked him to stop at a liquor store, even though I told you that we had plenty at home. In the store you gave the kid a hundred and told him to keep the change. I asked you if you knew it was a hundred. You said you did, so I let you do it. We got here, you fell asleep on the couch and I covered you up and came to bed.
I warned you... ...but I'm sorry.
Here's my speech... ...I know this shouldn't be acceptable to me, but it is. Don't ask me why. I sense that your trouble is very big... and I'm scared for you... and so I'm doing what I think you need me to do. Falling down in casinos is little stuff. It doesn't bother me. It has nothing to do with us.
That's amazing. What are you? Some sort of angel visiting me from one of my drunk fantasies? How can you be so good?
Why don't you go back to sleep. I'll go out and buy us some breakfast.
Be careful.
Very creative. Now we can get you a black bow tie and you can look like one of those casino dealers.
OK, but remember that they wear it because they have to. I wear it because I want to. That'll make me look different. Let's get a drink.
Your color.
I think you should wear one at a time. One of these... and one of your others. In fact, I was going to buy just one, but I didn't think it would fly... as a gift, I mean.
What was that all about?
Can we just forget it?
I don't understand any of that.
Can we just ignore it?
Please!
Yes... I'll give you that.
Thank you, Sera.
Do you want me not to go tonight?
No... we already talked about that.
Maybe I should follow you around and ask one of your tricks what it's like to sleep with you.
They wouldn't know.
I'll be back home around three. If you're back by then we can watch TV or something... I guess what I'm saying is... that I hope you are back when I get home. Please be careful.
You be careful to. I'm going to miss you.
Shall we go away for a couple of days?
Yeah... I'd like that.
Years ago, in LA, I turned a trick on Sunset and Western. The guy was polite and didn't argue about the price. He parked his car and I took him to a house that I had an arrangement with. A fat Mexican woman was watching a TV and I told him to give her the twenty for the room. There were three or four small naked children playing on the floor and we had to step over them to get into the room. The room had a bed and a dresser. He lay on his back on the bed and I put a rubber on him and sucked him for a while until he was hard and then I eased on to him. About twenty minutes later there was a knock on the door and it was the woman saying our time was up. I felt kind of guilty because he hadn't come and I offered to reason with the woman and get another ten minutes, but he said it was all right and began dressing. When we were ready to leave the room he stopped me and... hugged me and kissed me on the cheek. He gave me an extra hundred as a tip and went back to his car. I remember being relieved that I wouldn't have to work again that evening.
Last spring I happened to walk past a house that I had once patronized. There was a cool breeze blowing off the ocean and through the window I could see a bare leg. The girl must have been taking a break between customers. It was a strange moment for me because it reminded me of my mother and despite the fact that I was late for something already I just stayed there, loving the atmosphere of it and my memory and... the reason I'm telling you this epilogue is that I felt that I'd come full circle.
Where was that house? The one in LA, I mean.
Fifth and Mayflower. You know it?
Yes. One of my friends was there. I wonder if you ever clipped her.
I like it here with you.
Let's stay for a while.
OK.
I've missed the best sun. Why did you have to pawn your watch?
I didn't know I'd ever need it again.
Maybe it's time I moved to a hotel.
And do what... rot away in a room? We're not going to talk about that. Fuck you! I will not talk about that. You're staying here. You are not moving to a hotel.
Will you lighten up, please?
One thing... one thing... this is one thing you can do for me. I've given you gallons of free will here! You can do this for me.
There are limits.
Yes... I guess I knew that.
I wanted to see you...
Oh, Ben... you look so very sick... my love... you're so pale.
You know I love you... yeah?
Yes.
There's a onedrink minimum per show, I hope you saw the sign when you came in. Anyway, they're supposed to tell you.
Yes, I heard, and it's not a problem.
What do you want?
What are my choices?
Everything's ten dollars, and there's no alcohol.
No alcohol?
No alcohol. You gotta get something else. Everything's ten dollars. What do you want?
What do you think I should get?
Nonalcoholic malt beverage?
...Noooo.
Orange soda?
No.
Coffee?
No.
Sparkling apple cider?
No.
Water?
Water?
One drink minimum per show. Everything's ten dollars. Now... tell me what you want or I'll eighty six you.
Water.
If that ain't fate?... Hi, I'm Dave Caldwell. I do the copy for the anchor on the evening news down here.
Evening News?
We did a piece after your story ran in the New York Times.
I've always wanted a watch like that.
It's yours.
No. I won't take it unless I pay for it... Let's see, that's a pretty nice watch  I can see that.
I really want that watch.
This isn't right.
This is my only chance to get a watch like that. It would mean a lot to me and my family. Please take it. It really isn't that much.
Hello, Mr. Parker.
Hello.
How are you feeling?
Confused. I'm not sure what to do now. I'm not sure what he wants for me.
He wants to reward you... That's why I'm here.
What do you mean?
I mean you've done a great thing. You should be rewarded monetarily.
What's your shoe size?
What? Who are you?
Good morning.
Good morning.
Is it a boy or a girl?
Oh, that's not mine.
I don't have kids.
You should. Children are a blessing from God. I have four.
You look so happy  how long have you been married?
Fortyseven years.
Where did he go?
He's getting my sweater from the car. I said there was a breeze. I told him not to go.
May I ask you a question that might sound strange?
Yes.
There are a lot of people worried about you.
Where am I?
In a hospital.
Which hospital? Did you take me back?
What do your friends call you?
Steph.
Do you have a car, Steph?
You're in pain.
I need your help.
They told me, you might try to talk me into something... You need to rest Mr. Parker... It's for your own good. I've been following your story for a long while. It's a beautiful thing you did.
You ever lose somebody Stephanie?
Mr. Parker, I'm supposed to give you your fish sticks.
... My father.
Did you tell him everything you wanted to? Did you do everything you could while he was here?
You're going to have a lot of work to do when I get back.
Someone should be with you.
Lizy, Eliza... Elizabeth Bennett... Pride and Prejudice.
You're amazing.
It has to be a full character's name.
They called her 'Lizy' in the book... Sorry I was late. My jeep died on the way over from the paper.
They printed your article on, 'Dry Verses Can Dog Food'... Very enlightening.
Pulitzer, here I come.
What happened?
Never have children. If they're not a burden to you, they're a burden to someone else.
I want to reach people. Nobody listens to me. This is my way to reach them.
To reach people, you have to feel something first... You write about the wrong things. How can you feel for dog food? The people at the Gazette don't respect it, and neither do you.
This is a ghost town. Nothing ever happens.
Write from your heart. That's why the classics are great.
Are you firing me?
No. No... I won't be here for a while. The store will be closed in the interim.
You going on a trip Mr. Parker?
Yes.
Where?
California.
When are you leaving?
Tomorrow.
I'm walking there Kris.
Walking where?
California.
The hairs on my arm are standing up... Something strange is happening.
I always knew you had good instincts... Goodbye Kris. I'll see you when I get back.
Phileas Fogg?
... Round The World In Eighty Days. ... Hello Kris.
You're amazing... What are you doing Mr. Parker?
I told you.
You're walking to California?
Pacifica, California  it's a coastal city.
Oh, a coastal city. That's good.
Ellen told me that she didn't know if I loved her.
She knew you loved her.
She wasn't certain... I never really showed her.
I'm really lost. What does this have to do with walking?
I said, 'I would do anything for her'... and she didn't believe me. I said, 'I'd walk across the country for her'... she didn't believe me.
I need to show her how much I love her Kris.
Why know?
Because I should have shown her before... Everyday, I should have shown her.
Pacifica, California... that's a long ways away.
So I've been informed.
Ellen got up every morning and went to the corner store to get me my bread for breakfast... Everyday. Now that's about a quarter mile each way... 17 years... that comes to about three thousand miles... And you know what Kris?
What Mr. Parker?
She never ate a slice.
Tom Joad?
... The Grapes of Wrath.
You're amazing.
I missed you Kris.
I missed you to Mr. Parker.
Adelle told me, your writing is going well. The Crusader for social issues and all.
You were right. From the heart is always better.
I haven't been too punctual with the rent.
I was thinking you could open another store with investors. I'm sure a lot of people would want to get involved with you now.
Are they standing?
Saluting.
Come on Mr. Parker.
What, come on?
I can't do it. I want you to finish, but I want you to live more.
We do the operation after I finish. I can't risk not finishing... I thought you understood what I was doing.
I do.
Why in God's name did you fly all the way here then?
Don't do this.
... To look me in the eye and say what's important to you isn't as important to me? To tell me you know what's best? To tell me life is more precious than what I feel for my wife?
Mr. Parker, you can yell at me, if it'll help. But I'm not risking your life.
It's mine to risk.
She knows you love her Mr. Parker. She knows now.
No more words. Until I touch the ocean with my hands... it's all just words.
This story is big huh?
Mammoth.
The Gazette's small huh?
What are you saying? This story is too big for this paper?
Umm, no. It's just that 
God damn, you're right... You don't say much Michelle, but what you say is golden.
Michelle, breathe... that's it, what is it, talk to me.
Umm, Coalville Utah.
Umm, he's going to make it isn't he?
Maybe.
Each inch represents 150 miles...
Making the grand total?
Damn baby, relax. I'm getting to it. From Philadelphia following the route highlighted to Pacifica California  you're traveling an estimated three thousand two hundred miles...
Three thousand miles?... How many times does twenty go into three thousand?
What was that?
Perhaps there's another route?
This is the route approved by triple A. Even if you followed back roads the entire way, you'd still be looking at roughly the same distance...
Don't worry baby, it shouldn't take you more than five days if you just stop to sleep and eat.
By car right?
Well, hello.
I'm Isaac... I'm three.
I'm Maurice Parker... I'm much older than three. Are your parents home?
You know what, I can play baseball with my brothers when I'm bigger.
Is that right?
You know what... I'm just little now, but I'll be big soon.
You'll probably be bigger than your brothers.
Yeah!
I thought you were asleep.
You know what... I remembered you were here and I woke up.
Your parents would want you to be in bed.
You tell stories?
Oh no... I'm not good at that. Very bad in fact...
There was a boy named Isaac who wanted to play baseball, but he was too small and no one would let him play... but he kept practicing by himself  waiting... He went to every game and sat in the stands with his glove.
You know what... maybe I ran onto the field and hit a home run.
Who's telling this story?
Anyway, Big Billy needed another player so he yelled into the stands. 'Who can play baseball?' And there was a little voice that yelled out, 'Me, I can play.' Everyone turned to see a little boy standing with a glove.
That's me.
Right. But everyone saw how small Isaac was and laughed... but not Big Billy. He stared at Isaac carefully and then told him to join the game. It came to the end of the game. It was the eleventh or twelfth inning or whatever is the last inning of a game...
Nine.
Okay nine. Big Billy's team was losing and he was on base. That's when Isaac came up. He could barely hold the bat... Big Billy winked at Isaac... The ball was pitched  Isaac hit the ball hard. It soared up and out over the stadium. Everyone cheered. Isaac hit a home run and won the game. After the game, Isaac asked Big Billy why he let he play. Big Billy smiled and said, I wasn't always Big Billy, I was Little Billy first... Isaac and Big Billy went off after the game and read a classic book together. The end.
You know what  that was a really good story... Tell it again.
What's his story?
His name is Maurice. He's dancing around everything else.
Red flag, man.
If he's in trouble with the law  fine. Not our problem. He yanked two people from a car wreck, let's give him some space.
Red flags man.
Not our problem.
Why so vague? Why so evasive? He could be somebody hot.
Not our problem.
It's going to look beautiful when he turns out to be that animal who paid a visit to the Steadman's house.
This guy's not a murderer.
If he is, half the town has seen us take him out for dinner like a couple of jackasses.
A marriage certificate? Who the hell carries their marriage certificate around?
Maurice and Ellen Parker... it was issued in Philly... Mr. Maurice Parker has come a long way from home. Why?
Hansen's whipped. Has to call his wife every two hours or she'll go ballistic when he gets home.
PARKER. Right. Get on the horn with Philly. Call me here.
I'm going to drop off Tandy at the station and then drop you back.
That's all right isn't it?
Shit! He jumped!
Jumped where?
Out of the car. He jumped out of the god damn car!
What did they ask?
If I had seen you. By the way I'm sorry about your wife. They told me.
Thank you... I'm sorry you had to lie. It must have been difficult.
I asked the officers if you had committed some crime... If they had said 'yes', you would be speaking with them right now.
To where?
Pacifica, California.
From where?
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.
I see.
Why?
Do you believe a person's soul lives on after their death?
Most certainly.
And that that soul takes part of the person they were on this earth with them.
That's a reasonable assumption.
I don't want my wife's soul having any doubts.
Doubts? About what?
About my love for her.
You don't have to prove anything to her.
I'm not proving to her. I'm showing her. And I know I don't have to. I want to. I've realized, love is about giving. I'm alive, I can still give to her. I want to give her everything I can.
Yes?
The flowers... they're beautiful.
You thought I sent them?
There was no card.
Have I forgotten something? Is this a special day?
It's just a regular day.
It's a special day isn't it?
Well, I'm sure it's not Christmas, because you'd be worried about how much money we don't have to spend on each other... I know it's not New Years, because you'd be going on and on about wearing a tuxedo and how much you don't like to dance... and I'm sure it's not our anniversary, because I didn't find an envelope with a hundred dollars cash on my bureau with a note that says, 'Pick out something pretty'... Yes  Maurice  I'm virtually certain it's not a special day today.
Ellen?
What?
The new store?
Honey, I told you. If it makes you happy, we should just do it.
It's a tremendous amount of work  moving.
We can do it together.
... Love is shown through actions not just words.
What's that? That's not a fortune... You will be rich... That's a fortune. What you have is a statement.
What it is  is the truth.
I don't follow.
Is this going to be similar to the flower incident?
Sometimes people need to see things done for them  because sooner or later they don't believe the words anymore.
You don't think I love you?
I want to be shown... Maurice would you do anything for me?
Yes.
Anything?
What do you want from me? Would I swim across an ocean for you?... Would I walk across the United States for you? Yes... Yes I would. You know that.
No I don't. I don't even know if you'd walk across the street for me.
Why do you polish that thing all the time?
You're talking to me?
Why do you polish it?
A Book Society Award is a very prestigious thing.
Why are you polishing it  in bed  in your pajamas  at 11:15 at night? Are you going to show it to someone?
No.
Then why?
There's no reason.
Exactly. No reason. No occasion. It just makes you feel good to do something for it, to express your pride and affection for it some how... How come you'd do that for a piece of metal and not for me?
I do love you... very, very much.
Show me.
I will  I promise.
Walk with me?
You like to take walks?
No. But I want to take a walk with you.
It's one of those thoughts you keep to yourself.
Please tell me.
I thought we both wanted the same things.
I've changed my mind.
You can't change your mind.
I want children.
You've just decided, is that right?
Yes.
Ellen, there are two kinds of people in the world 
Please not, 'The two kinds of people' speech.
... People that were made to be parents, and people who were not made to be parents... My parents, were people who were not made to be parents but had kids anyway. I don't want us to be that way Ellen.
You can change.
Face it Ellen, I'm not the type of person who reads bedtime stories. But you love me anyway.
Don't be so sure.
It must've hit the window... I think its neck is broken.
Don't bring it in here  it probably has all kinds of diseases.
It isn't going to make it Ellen. Let the poor thing go quietly.
It'll make it.
Your father?
He's plastered.
That's okay  really it is.
No it's not. He should be here with me now, not trying to find some fucking bottle of Johnny Walker. He's never been there for me. I've always been alone.
I don't know.
I think it's a different place for each person.
Did you have a dream?
I know where my heaven is.
Where?
Pacifica, California.
Why there?
When I was ten, my family lived in Pacifica for a year. I used to go to the beach everyday that summer. I never felt so happy, carefree. It was a magic place for me... That's where my heaven will be.
Maurice?
Yes.
If I die, you'll know where to look for me?
Go to sleep Ellen.
No really, if God takes us away from each other, you know where to look now?
The beach of Pacifica, California.
Good.
So what's the deal Maurice?
Pardon?
I mean why the sudden voluntary visit  usually it takes gun point to get you in here...
Routine, I assure you. I just wanted to gage my health. Am I healthy?
Yes  you are.
I'm going to ask you a question that may sound peculiar.
I know what you're getting at.
You do?
I've seen it before.
You have?
You're feeling old and you want to start exercising. A lot of men your age feel the need to recapture their youth. Don't feel embarrassed about it.
Okay.
You should start slow and easy  fifteen minutes a day.
No. How far in one attempt  what's the farthest someone like myself could walk?
Just for curiosity sake that's all?
I don't know  maybe twenty miles... Of course I'm not recommending that... if someone like you had to I mean... that's how far they'd probably get before encountering serious physical walls.
Twenty miles? I see.
The normal amount of build up in your arteries has been aggravated by over exertion. This is called, "Claudication," As a result, there isn't enough circulation to your body. That accounts for the discoloration in your extremities and the muscle spasms I'm sure you've encountered.
Can it kill me?
It can, but it'll have to wait in line.
What steps do we take now?
We operate. We find the artery in the brain and close the bleeding... I just did this procedure on a Senator and he's doing fine.
What are the odds? Do I have a fiftyfifty chance of surviving the operation?
It's hard to say. It's a delicate surgery. There's no getting around the fact that it's a very highrisk situation.
Mine.
Are you and your friends planning on driving soon?
Are you a preacher?
No, I just don't want anybody dying because I didn't say something when I had the chance.
This is Indiana  nothing's going to happen to you.
You need a ride, Preacher?
A wife?... Did someone piss drunk run into your wife? Crushed her like a bug. Snapped her bones?
That's enough.
Oh the preacher's getting angry again... Tell me something. Did she die instantly or did she feel every torn muscle and shattered bone? Were you there to help her? Or were you safe at home when the windshield sliced into her face 
I'll kill you!
What would you like us to do?
Put out a P.B.S.... Or whatever it's called.
A.P.B.... He isn't breaking any law. He's a grown man... He can crawl on his hands and knees to China if that's what he wants to do.
Sergeant, I'm a psychologist and I know the difference between normal whims people have and actions that clearly display psychological problems... My uncle lost his wife and it devastated him.
We're very sorry about that. Some of our men were on the scene of the accident.
I think my uncle is suffering from a condition called Mania which is linked with depression. It is a time when an individual will act overconfident, and will act out impractical, grandiose plans. Sometimes these plans can be dangerous.
How long does this... Mania last?
A couple days to a few months if untreated.
Look, I'll see if anyone has spotted him recently. If I get any information, I'll call you.
Thank you.
Don't wait by the phone. If he's really been walking this whole time, he's out of our jurisdiction...
Uncle Maurice, you're wearing sneakers?
Hightop Nike CrossTrainers with heel support and aircushioned soles. They're nasty.
And your store? What about your new store? What about all your dreams?
I have new dreams now.
I don't accept that.
Maybe one day  after you've been married twenty years you'll understand.
Uncle Maurice  I spent all our frequent flyer miles on a one way ticket here... I have a rented car outside, just listen to me. Come back with me now, and if you still want to do something like this in a year  maybe we'll plan a car trip across the country  Gerald and I will come along 
I have to walk  by myself  all the way  every inch.
It's impossible.
It's what she asked for... It's what I'm going to do.
She was being symbolic. What if she asked you to fly to the moon?
You'd be visiting me at Nasa.
What if you don't make it?
I'll make it.
If you really want to do this... plan it out. Rest up. Train for it. Build up your body. Plan every stop along the way. How much money? Time? Really do it properly. This is all so  by the seat of your pants.
No it's not.
Why did you take the back roads here? They're not safe. You'd know that if you'd planned.
I've all ready gone six hundred miles... I can't do it again.
If you can't redo these six hundred miles when you're rested and ready, how are you possible going to walk another two thousandfive hundred miles in your present condition?
Nothing's going to happen.
Uncle, the way I was told, if that police car didn't happen down that road, you would be dead right now. That guy Denny, had jumped bail in another state, he's dangerous... They'll be other Dennys, if you don't plan.
Are you two planning kids?
Maybe later.
You should definitely have children. They're really special.
I don't think you realize how serious this is Uncle.
How serious is it?
Then it'll have to wait until I finish.
What?
I finish the walk, and then we may take all the chances we want.
Listen to me very carefully, because I don't want you to misunderstand me... The walk is over Uncle Maurice. Done. Finished. You've made it to California, it was a miracle, now let's try to save your life.
I'm completing the walk. I'm almost there.
I have to finish first.
I won't let you die.
He probably just went somewhere.
Where?
For a walk. I don't know.
What is it?
Adelle... Maurice is in the paper.
This smells good.
Why am I such an authority?
Here comes the resume.
I received my B.S. from the University of Pennsylvania, my P.H.D. from Bryn Mawr College. I worked three years at the Boston University School of Medicine, during which time I had articles printed in the "Journal of Educational Psychology", "American Journal of Psychology", "Psychology Review" and "Science"... So I think it's safe to say my opinion is valid.
You'd better talk good, son, because, for the moment, I've got a quite bad opinion about you. Norman smiles.
I respect your business, Mister Tony. Every time we asked your help, we were very happy with the result. It's right this that makes me nervous, now. I hope you'll excuse my temporary bad mood?
Then...
Do you recognize him?
...Even his mother wouldn't.
Listen, son, you know as well as me this kind of hitmen: they come from nowhere, get the contract and disappear. They're lonely, worse than wolves.
May we have this wolf's name and address?
These guys have no place. They change virtually everyday. And his name... It's a surname.
Rinaldi... Rinaldi... What region do you come from?
Messina.
Emilio? Due grappe! ...Why the hell did you come here?
But... He works for your same employer?
Yeah, but I don't give a shit about. I trade at left, at right and that's dangerous in there...
It's a little out of the world coming to visit me this way, on mid afternoon. It really isn't the usual procedure...
I know... But I'm a little pressed.
...Who sent you?
Giancarlo... Rinaldi.
Is he still alive?
Yeah... And still in Messina. He's my uncle.
Huh? Are you Alfredo's son, then?
No... Dino's.
Have you ever been in Messina, son?
Yes... Twice.
Did you fish in Messina? The "pesce spada"?
No...
It's a specialty down there. It's a fishing boat with, in front, a long pole near the surface. Then, near the cabin, a very tall mast with a little cabin for the lookout.
I think I will get back in Messina this summer... It's too long I haven't been there.
You're right, son. You must care the links with your family, always. It's the only important thing in the world.
...Yeah.
Salute.
Salute.
You can't sit here like that.
Huh? Why?
Because you have to pay. It's like a parking meter: if you stay, you pay. It's the rule...
...And how much is it?
Ten dollars... A month.
...OK... Good.
Can I sit on the stairways now?
Huh... Yeah, yeah... Of course.
How are you, Miss?
Fine...
I'm sick with practicing, that's it...
I see. You're good, because I didn't hear anything.
Yeah. I put a rag on the strings, to lessen noise.
Huh? That's smart!
I'm used to it. Not everyone likes music.
Yeah, true. But what does your father exactly do for living?
...Composer.
Huh, that's good!
Yeah, but he's not exactly my father...
Huh?
...No... he's my lover...
Yes?
Good morning, Mister... It's Danielle!
Huh! You made an error, baby. I don't know any Danielle.
...I got lost, Mister.
Huh? Move back, baby, I can't see anything.
It's not me, it's dark here... and I can't find the switch.
...Yes?
Excuse me, Mister... I'm looking for Mister Rubens' apartment, but it's dark out here and I got lost...
...One second.
Don't fear.
I have no fear.
OK, I'm fine.
Good.
Here, this is the light scoop for night shooting. There, you fix client's distance... How much to the bench down there in the park?
Huh... 500 meters?
130... 140...
How can you say it?
Look. When you can see his fingers, it's 50 meters. When you just see his hands, it's about 80 meters. When you distinguish arms from body, it's 120130. When you see nothing more than a shape, you don't shoot. Not very sure. You have one chance out of five to miss. A contract means getting all chances on your side. 5 out of 5. You can't miss a client. Never... If the task is delicate or the risk is too big, you double. That is, you insure yourself by another means.
What, for example?
Well, if the guy is far, in a car, and I know weather is going to be bad, rain for example, I think I would plastic the car, with a remote here. I shoot from the distance and if I miss I plastic.
What if you can't approach the car or he changes car?
Rocket launcher.
Oh really? But can you miss the car?
Wow! It's brilliant!
Yeah... Come on, have a little training.
Who'll I aim at?
Whoever.
The fat man down there, on the bench.
Perfect.
Good! First shot!
Yeah, but I didn't get him, I got his case and now he's behind the tree. What can I do?
It's not serious, it's just training. You have to learn from the beginning to hit the target, then, to improve precision, you'll train, but on cardboards.
OK.
Now, try a running guy.
The yellow and pink.
OK.
What's up? I don't feel you're concentrated.
Yes, yes...
It's incredible! How did you do it?
What?
There, the guy... How did you do that, without even touching him? Without noise. It's like you put him away... How did you do it?
Five minutes. Keep in front of the window.
OK.
Come on, get down!
You were scared, weren't you?
I was nervous, that's all! Where is the guy?
I killed him... and cut him and ate all of him... I left nothing for you!
It's strange, being in love... It's the first time for me...
How do you know it's love, if you've never been in love before?... It may be friendship... or the love you can have with a brother or a father... How can you know?
...Because I feel it.
Mathilda? May I come in?
Yes.
Why don't you take me with you?... I'm ready, now. You said I learn very quickly.
Quick doesn't mean "ready". And you can't discuss, we said. Right?
May I go to the cinema?
No.
For musicals? That's part of the job!
No, you can't go out.
You see, five minutes ago you said you loved me and now you hate me... but I prefer this!
I hate you because you depart without kissing me. That's all.
...You can leave whenever you want. I don't refrain you.
...This is what I don't like, you see: you don't refrain me, but at the same time I can't get out!
Not taken.
Why?
Too heavy.
Well... Then may you rent me your gear for the day?
I never rent my gear.
If you knew, Leon...! I killed one thousand in my head... And this never disturbed my sleep.
OK... And if it's you who gets killed? ...Then? Talking about other people's death is easy, but what about yours? She's here! She moves around you, and can get you in a thousandth of second. Because it was your day, your hour, your second...
It's true... But a first contract, it's an exception.
And... May I kiss you, like in the movies, may this be an exception?
...I'm going to kiss you.
Mathilda, stop, please!
Stop. Everyone is looking.
Of course, so kiss me quickly, or they'll notice us.
...You don't believe me, don't you?
What?
When I say I love you.
Mathilda, don't resume, please. ....Change subject, OK?
...OK. I love you anyway.
Mathilda?!
OK, OK! Excuse me! How old were you when you had your first contract?
...17.
...Shit!! We'd found him. We waited for him to get upstairs and he got out of the window.
What shall we do?
I think.
Where are you going?
Piddle. She smiles and looks for the bathroom. She finds it and is going to go in when she sees the head of a man in the bath, walkman on. She withholds a shout and gets against the wall, without moving. She doesn't dare passing before the open door again to join Leon. In the living room, Leon still thinks.
...Why didn't he close the window?
It's cool departing this way... warm... music...
There are better things. You see the importance of the "moment". Ten minutes early or late, he'd have seen death. He'd have suffered it. This way, he already departed. Without knowing.
...I'd like knowing what he's listening to...
...Later.
Mathilda, hadn't you told that bullshit to the receptionist, we'd still be in the hotel, I make you notice.
That wasn't bullshit, I said we love each other.
Yeah!... Anyway, I don't like hotels. Too much people, everyone's got the key... I don't like it.
...I prefer apartments... Furthermore, there are always kids in a building. What about getting some friends?
Friends? You're crazy! In my building, before, they just cared drugs all day and you couldn't get one, or they just cared video games and you couldn't get one, no more.
You're darkening the picture, aren't you?
A little...
Is there a normal 13 or 14 year old boy?
Yeah... There's a lot on TV.
It's too big.
Yeah... I'm just good for leftovers!
Risky business, isn't it?
...You're young, Mathilda... You still have a chance to get out. You can't give up this chance. You have to protect it. There's a lot of things to do in life, a lot of other jobs...
There are just two things I'm interested in: love and death. For the moment, I have none of the two!
Mathilda... There's equally a lot of other things!
Huh, really? What? Come on, I'm waiting!
No, excuse me... It's the yogurt that made me laugh.
You've just to love me and I'll be the happiest woman around.
Yeah, I know! But for the moment you're not yet a woman. So, be patient... I need time... And you too. You have to grow up.
I don't grow up any more. I just get older.
I'm here, I'll never leave you again, Mathilda, never. I swear.
I love you so much, Leon.
I love you too, and I don't want to lose you.
Poor darling, and then?
Well... I proposed them to play roulette... Like we played... ...And I lost.
Well... I don't know, suddenly, the make up... All this... How are you? Are you OK?
Of course! I'm fine! I put on your beautiful dress, I slightly made up... I tried to get beautiful! Don't you like it?
...Don't you drink?
I prefer waiting for a while... I feel it would go the wrong way.
...No...
...Don't you like me?
How many girlfriends did you have?
...I don't know.
Well... 1... 2... 10... 100... 1000? How many, approximately?
...Mathilda, I don't feel like talking about this.
Why? Did you have too many and you fear it may shock me? I won't get shocked. I'm used to this! My father was a true pig. He fucked the bitch I'd as mother all around the apartment. Whenever a door was closed, you could be sure they were making sex behind it! And my sister, if you didn't sleep with her, you're building's exception!
Stop, Mathilda! Don't talk like that!
...I had a girlfriend... A long time ago. Before coming here, in my country. I was 14yearold... We flirted like kids... Her father didn't want her to meet me. My family was not very respectable.
Then? You didn't give a shit about her father, didn't you? You met anyway?
...That's awful. I hope you killed, that asshole?
...Yes. The day he got out of jail. I allowed him to make ten steps... No more. And bang. Two hundred meters. By telescope. That night, I left my country and came here, to join my father, who worked for Tony. ...I was 17. Then, I never left the city... And never had another girlfriend...
You... You knock the code, when you come back, OK?
Yes.
Three times, then two times.
May I ask you a personal question?
...Yes.
What do you do, with the money you earn?
Nothing, for the moment.
Maybe it's the time to do something, isn't it?
Yeah, what?
I don't know... Getting far away, the two of us, for example... And forgetting all this...
Why did you unleash the pipe, I don't know?
It will take them five minutes! How long ago did they arrive?
I don't know... Five minutes.
Good! Snipers can't be in position.
How shall we get out now, Leon?
Let me work. We'll get out, I tell you!
No! I don't want to leave you!!
Mathilda, listen!
No, no! I don't want to go! I don't want!
You say it just to calm me!
Not at all, Mathilda! I tell you because it's true! You'll buy the globe you told me about and you will choose, OK? We'll go where you want! I swear, you'll see, Mathilda!!
...You moved too, didn't you?
Yeah.
Huh!? Because of the slaughter at your same floor?
...Not at all.
It's better... You see, it's my turf, so I don't want contracts I'm not informed about, on my turf. I'm not opposing, but the least they can do is informing me, isn't it?
Yes.
At a certain moment I thought: maybe Leon would like working on his own? So he makes some little extras?
Dirty work, and I kill no women and no kids.
That's what I later told myself! No, Tony, forget Leon! It can't be him, he likes too much his job to make such a slaughter!
Tell me... The money I earn and you keep for me...
Do you need money?
No... Just to know... Because it's a long time I work... And I never did anything with my money... I should do something.
No, no.
Pay attention to women, Leon. They are dangerous, you know?
Yeah... Well... I don't know.. I don't know any.
Listen, think about what you want to do, but don't worry, your money is there and it's safer than in a bank... Banks are robbed every five minutes!
Why can't I have a bank account?
I'll explain you, Leon: they'll ask you to fill in a lot of forms and you can't write and they'll ask you your job, your employer's name and you can't tell them: My job, I'm a hitman and my employer is Tony, his record is longer than his resturant's menu. That's why you can't have a bank account!
Take...
Well, I don't need them...
Take them, you never know... If you want to have some fun. Take, it's a gift.
Yeah, pal! And I didn't say anything, I said I don't know you. But do you know what did she say, that stupid Raphaella?
No?
She told them you wanted her things and that she wasn't surprised police looked for you! Can you believe it?!
Asshole. But she won't miss anything, that. You'll see.
Good, what are you going to do? Do you come back?
No... I can't... I got tired. I want to live my way.
YEAH! I was sure! Come on, tell me! I know him?
No.
Come on, shit, tell me! Is he beautiful?
I can't believe it! "Yes I think"... How she kids me! I can't believe it! And did he pass your threshold or not?
...What?
Well... Did you sleep with him or not?
No... Not yet. He's very shy... and very sensitive.
...Good... But what's special in him?
...I don't know... It's true he touches me. I love him.
What's that man's name?
Why do you want to know?
He forgot his money... My mother's got a pub, behind the corner, and he forgot his money, about 100$.
Huh? I see, but this is the FBI, little girl, and I can't let you in. But if you leave me his money, I'll give him it myself.
Give me his name, I will mail him.
OK. Mister Stansfield, Norman STANSFIELD.
...Office 2702.
Yeah... How do you know it?
...I heard he said... That's all... Thanks.
Who speaks that name!
Ynyr!
It is fifty years since I heard that name.
It is fifty years since I spoke it to you.
I was beautiful then.
The most beautiful woman in the world.
But you would not stay with me.
Could not. Could not betray the girl to whom I was betrothed.
She was not as beautiful.
No, she was not as beautiful.
She bore you many children?
We had no children.
You had a son.
You said nothing. You told me nothing.
You had left me! I kept silent out of rage.
Where is he? My son.
I killed him when he was born. This place is my punishment.
Do not try your trickery on me!
It is no trickery.
Those are reflections. <u>This</u> is my face!
You see?
Yes.
Memory is no trick, it is a power. The power to see.
Power you have given me. What can my power give you?
Knowledge.
Of what?
The Fortress of Krull. When will it come near here?
Why must you know?
There is a girl there. Her name is Lyssa.
You lie!
Could I lie to you and still see your beauty?
No.
A young man seeks her. A young man about the age I was when I met you.
Tomorrow, the Fortress of Krull will rise with the sun in the Valley of Reeds. But the knowledge is of no use to you. No man has ever escaped the Web. And soon the creature will come for you, even here.
It will not help.
Then the other Lyssa will share your fate. She will grow old in the Fortress as you have grown old here.
I cannot stop the sand.
You cannot stop time. Go now, before it runs out.
You will come with me.
There is sand enough for only one life. Go now, save the other.
Knowledge I wouldn't want.
No. They are sad, solitary creatures, rarely seen.
We'll seek an Emerald Seer. They have great powers of vision.
There's an Emerald Circle a few leagues from here. We'll find her.
We can save half a day by crossing the Stone Lake.
Many have perished in that maze.
No maze to me, my fried. It is where we take refuge when they hunt us.
The leader of the Dark Ones?
Yes. Like you, a King. A King of many worlds. All enslaved.
I must go to the widow. Perhaps she will help.
The Widow of the Web?
Yes.
That creature helps no one. And none who go there return.
She has the power of vision.
She has the power to kill.
Perhaps she will not kill me, for I know her name.
Her name is Death.
She had another name once.
Few have survived it.
Fewer will survive them.
Each to his fate, lad.
Each to his fate. Wait for me at the inn. If I am not back by dawn, you will know my fate, and you must go on without me.
We must reach the Valley of Reeds before the next dawn.
It's a hundred leagues from here.
I'll stay behind and keep them busy.
It is not necessary. They will not follow.
Look.
Yes, they are weakening. It takes great power to maintain the Fortress, and they have expended much.
Kegan!
It is too late. He has drunk.
Go now. Quell was wise. He knew that a man cannot ask more of his death than it help his friends.
That is true.
We seek the Fortress of Krull.
Such a vision will be opposed. Who seeks it?
The new King.
With an old voice?
You know the voice.
Yes. You have left your place in the Needle. It is the time, then.
It is the time.
I will seek the Fortress for you.
Can you see?
Yes. It is the Western Ocean.
The Dark Ones will appose you with all their power.
They will fail for, during the day, the power of the Circle is greater than theirs. Only at night can they pierce the Circle.
You were attacked in the forest?
Yes. We lost five.
You were lucky. I lost thirty there.
I tried to reach Ynyr, the old one. I led a hundred men to his place in Granite Needle, but it was surrounded. The Dark Ones guard it by night and by day they call out the Slayers. Ynyr cannot get out and no one can get in.
How many did you lose?
Sixty at the needle, another thirty in the forest. Only ten of us made it back.
We will have to try again. His knowledge is great. Without it, we cannot hope to win.
Modred! Impossible!
He leads a group of Slayers, under the leopard banner.
What news from our friends?
Barak is still strong in the north, and Tendo holds the high passes. But the great desert forts have fallen.
Freylag's stronghold?
It has been taken, Freylag and all his people slaughtered.
It is only a few weeks and already half our strong places have fallen.
The attacks are unceasing: by night, the Dark Ones; by day, those of our people who have sold themselves to them, those traitors who are called the Slayers.
It is the way of all invaders. Those they would conquer they divide, buying allies with promises of land and power.
We will hold. Their power is not unlimited.
Lord Rowan is one of Lyssa's godfathers. He will defend her in the ceremony. I wish that Lord Modred were here. He is a godfather of her own blood.
Modred has treated with the Dark Ones.
For some, the lure of power is stronger than the ties of blood. No matter. I had hoped to have the wedding next spring, Lord Turold, with all the nobles of the kingdom in attendance. But Fate and this war have ordained otherwise.
It is important to assure the succession.
Yes.
I will tell you something you did not know, Turold. Had it been my choice, all those years ago, I would have chosen you for my king. But my parents chose otherwise.
I knew.
You knew! You are a rude bumpkin!
That I am, my lady.
A girl of some spirit, your daughter.
A match for your son, I think.
A fine match.
They will have the life that you and I might have had.
I do not want your power. It is hideous.
You know nothing of power, you foolish girl. You think power is a mighty sword, or a strong castle, or the paltry magic of an Emerald Seer. Power is none of these.
I do not want your worlds or your slaves.
Then look!
It's a lie!
These walls do not lie! He will betray you.
He will not!
Then he will die!
He will come for me.
He will not come. You will be my queen.
My spells always go wrong when I am observed. Be gone!
The forest is not safe these days. You'd best travel with us.
<u>Me</u>? Travel with <u>you</u>? I am Ergo the Magnificent ... ... short in stature ... ... tall in power ... ... narrow of purpose ... ... wide of vision. And I do not travel with peasants and beggars. Goodbye!
One with red eyes, the other with one eye, both trying to kill me.
The one with red eyes was a Dark One, the other was a Cyclops, and it was not you he meant to kill.
He was aiming a huge spear right at me!
If that were so, you'd be dead now. He was aiming at the Dark One, for there is ancient hatred between them. Once his race had two eyes, like other men, until his forefathers bargained with the Dark Ones: they gave up one of their eyes in return for the power to see the future. But they were cheated, for the only future they were permitted to see was the time of their own death.
He didn't join them. They joined him.
And who is <u>he</u> that they should join <u>him</u>?
He is the King.
Well, at least I'm glad to see you have a sense of humor. That's the first smile I've seen on that gloomy face of your's ... ... isn't it? It isn't. Oh no. Oh dear. Oh now I've gone and done it.
They'll trample him to death!
No. He will master the leader.
But also very young. Six to one is no odds, boy.
Get me down from here you louts or I'll turn you all into pigs!
Put me down, you lout!
You had better manners as a pig.
I am Ergo the Magnificent, and I do not travel with thieves and robbers.
What are you doing with my dear? Stop! Thieves!
Many villagers are hiding in the forest. They need food.
And do you think I live on air?
We have plenty of hares.
Food for crows.
Surely a sorcerer of the sauce pan can make rabbit taste like venison.
I am being exploited! Where are you going?
I must take the old man to see some sick children. Kegan will guard you.
Oh, my poor stew!
Oh, my poor stomach.
Passable, pimple, very passable.
The greatest boon of your otherwise worthless life, blockhead, is the privilege of dining on boar roasted by the hand of Ergo the Magnificent.
Your boast is a bigger mouthful than your roast, Magnificence.
I can't hold the weight of both of you!
Hush!
Look at its beauty. Look at its grace.
Look at its insides.
No! Not yet! Let me hug it and kiss it a little. Let me run my fingers over its lovely skin. Let me climb to the top and sing to it.
Bread is for peasants, and wine makes me sneeze. Got any gumdrops?
No.
Sugarballs?
No.
What kind of a boy are you? Boys always have candy.
I have a cinnamon bar.
You do?
You can have half.
I am Ergo the Magnificent ... ... short in stature ... ... tall in power ... ... narrow of purpose ... ... wide of vision.
I ... ... am Titch.
I'm hungry.
Smart lad. Bring me my spices!
If I could wish ... ... for anything, I'd wish for a venison pie the size of a ... ... mountain. No, that's too greedy. I'd settle for one the size of a house.
I'd wish for a puppy.
One puppy? Why not wish for a hundred?
I only want one.
A foolish wish. And you, Quell?
Sir Ergo? ... My honorable Lord Ergo? ...
First, you desert me, and now you mock me. Go back to your oneeyed friend.
What? Now you poke me in the nose as well?
I don't think it's working.
Not working? This nose? This nose works day and night. This nose has never loafed an hour in its life. This nose ... What? Impossible. This nose asleep while venison fills the air? Where is it, boy? Tell me where it is and I forgive you everything.
It's right behind you.
We meant only to please you.
And do you think I'm not going to eat myself to death this very night? Huh?
Oh, she was so beautiful  and I was so <u>ugly</u>.
Would you desert your friends?
No, no. I'm with you, boy.
Nothing worse than lowerclass boors with upperclass morals.
Would you settle for a boar?
A <u>boar</u>? Those incompetent louts couldn't catch a piglet, much less a boar.
You!
Me. May I eat with you tonight?
Tonight and every night, my friend, for this is the second time you've saved my life. I am Ergo the Magnificent, short in stature, tall in power, etcetera, etcetera.
I am Quell.
What is that awful looking place?
The Swamp of Betrayal. Be glad we don't have to cross it.
I'm glad. I'm very glad.
Where are you going?
We'll meet you at the inn.
Can't I come, too?
No.
A venison pie as big as a house.
A small house.
And what do you think a small person lives in, you oneeyed fool? Leaving me here to mope while you and the boy were arranging my assassination.
Quell?
I cannot go with you, my friend.
My heart stays here.
And mine goes with you.
I don't think you'll grow careless.
Smart as well as quick. Now what do you have to give us?
Fame.
Fame? Thank you, no. Fame is the burial ground of contentment. Eat it and go hungry; count it and go broke; seek it and grow mad. Fame is what fools yearn for and wise men shun.
Fame is what you leave to your sons.
How did you know I had sons?
Because you would not rob if you had no children to provide for.
Hah! You don't know me, boy.
I know you.
They stand at the edge of the grave and make jokes. Do you know who I am, sprout? I am Torquil, Lord of the forest. My men follow no man but me, and I follow no man at all.
You will follow me.
And in the few seconds before I dice you to crowfood, tell me why I am going to follow you.
So your sons will speak of you to your grandsons, and your grandsons to their grandsons.
And where do you lead, boy?
To the place where Death lives.
It should be an interesting journey, then.
That I promise you.
I compel no man to follow me on this journey.
When did you last sleep, boy?
I'm all right.
They burn many villages. Even walled cities fall to them.
Why do they burn the villages? There's nothing to gain.
I'm not hungry.
Not sleepy, either?
No.
Forgive me. It's childish to cry.
Those are not child's tear. A child cries for himself, a man cries for those he loves.
Well, I'm not impressed.
I knew you would not be. That's why I chose you.
You've eaten nothing.
We must try to get horses.
Yes. It will double our range. I know at least a dozen ways to get horses. All cheap.
These we'll pay for.
Lad, you have an unnatural desire to pay for things. It stunts the mind and shrivels the imagination.
Hand over your dinner.
A flicker of talent.
Forgive me, my friends. I saw terrible things.
They do not exist, except in the waters of the Swamp, where they will remain.
Go, join them.
What kind of friend do you think I am?
The best. But my unhappiness is not made lighter by adding your's to it.
Well, it is true that if I received a royal command I couldn't very well disobey it, could I?
Go. I command you.
Yes, my lord.
We could reach it on firemares.
Those beasts cannot be saddled by mortal men.
We must cover a hundred leagues before sunrise.
At the gallop!
You're resourceful, my lad. I tell you, one year under my tutelage and I could make you the Prince of Thieves.
Subject to the King, no doubt.
Naturally.
A good thrust, my friend. Another second and there'd have been nothing between my head and shoulders but bad memories.
I intend to keep you alive, your majesty. So you can abdicate your throne and become my Warlord.
Perhaps. If the pay is good.
Make for the wall. I'll catch up.
Colwyn, don't be a fool. You can't do battle with that thing.
There's no way to outrun it. You know that. This is what Ynyr was preparing me for. It's what he died for.
Help! Help! I'm drowning!
I doubt it. The water is only an inch deep.
It could have been quicksand! I might have been sucked to my death. Where is this place?
A forest near the Valley of Needles.
Blast! A thousand miles off course. Well, I was rushed. There was a certain difference of opinion concerning a venison pie. The foolish man left it sitting on his windowsill. What did he expect?
Perhaps he expected to eat it.
For that rudeness, peasant lout, I am going to leave you hanging by your heels when I depart. Which is right now.
I just remembered I have urgent business in this direction.
What business?
Staying alive.
Once is enough, thank you.
He saved our lives.
Your kingship ... your lord high mightiness ... when I called you a ... a ... whatever I called you, I didn't realize that you were ... were ...
I was hoping I might be your friend.
My <u>friend</u>.
I have need of friends.
No more, my lord  my friend. With Ergo the Magnificent by your side, your enemies are dead men.
Not yet, my friend. It's your tomato that's dying.
<u>What</u>? Oh no! Better it was me. There isn't another good tomato within a hundred leagues.
Try your tricks on me and I'll turn myself back into a snake and bite you.
You and I will guard the fire.
What else is left for a man without friends.
I know the cruelty of such a fate.
Perhaps you think no man would return to me.
I don't think that.
Am I not worth returning to?
Yes.
Am I not beautiful enough to be loved?
Yes.
Even by you?
Yes.
You too are lonely.
I ache with it.
Let me comfort you.
I cannot take comfort when she has none.
Then give me comfort. Sleep with me tonight.
I cannot betray my bride.
One night is no betrayal. Have pity on me. Please, I beg you, do not refuse me. You do not know the price.
I feel your pain, but I cannot betray her.
You will not, then?
I cannot.
How did you know?
I found the body of the Seer in the stream.
Slayers!
We must enter the swamp.
Do not let the waters touch you.
What will happen?
They can be saddled.
You have done it?
I road them often in my youth.
Saddles.
It is today?
Yes. It is today.
Each to his fate.
Each to his fate.
The White Castle has fallen.
Does the Queen live?
The new Queen lives.
Turold's son was to marry her.
We were married. Then she was taken by the Slayers. You must help me.
I have lived in this place, like my fathers before me, guarding the old knowledge. I knew, when I had no son, that the Great War would come in my time, and that I would be the one to pass on the old knowledge to a new king. Come.
This is not the first time the Dark Ones have attacked our world. They came once before, a thousand years ago. A young king and queen, with extraordinary powers, were given to us then, to lead the struggle. My forefather was their Councilor, as I will be yours.
I have no extraordinary powers.
Your powers are greater than you know. Have you ever seen one of these?
In the old books. It's called a glaive.
With two or three days' practice, you'll be able to use it as well as I can. Then we'll have a chance of fighting our way out of here.
Two or three days! While Lyssa is in their hands?
There is no other way.
But there is another entrance to this place.
But it opens onto the sheer wall of the Needle. There's no way down.
You have rope?
I am too old to climb down a rope.
You won't have to.
There is nothing.
Reach out farther. Call to her.
Lyssa ... Lyssa ...
You must break when the strain becomes too great, or you will harm yourself. And you must concentrate your powers for when they are needed most. What did she answer?
She was in a great fortress, first in the mountains, then in the jungle. How is that possible?
It is the Fortress of Krull. I know it only from the stories of wars on other worlds. They did not use it on our world in the first great war, for it costs them enormous power. This time they mean to conquer, at all costs.
The Fortress moves?
Yes. Each dawn it rises in a different land: sometimes in the mountains, sometimes in the jungle, sometimes the desert, sometimes the sea. Never in the same place twice.
Then even if Lyssa tells us where she is, we'll never be able to reach her, for they will never allow the Fortress to rise near us.
No. They occupy the Fortress, but they cannot control its movement. It is moved by Fate. And, sooner or later, Fate will place it near us.
Then we must be ready. Five leagues from here is the Eastern Tower. I know the Barons who hold it. Good men, and brave. They will help us.
You have not slept in two days.
Nor will I, till my bride is beside me.
You choose these?
Yes. They will be more help than highborn barons.
They know when they're going to die?
Everyone of his race is born knowing the day of his death.
I can't reach her.
What do you see?
Darkness. Tunnels and corridors. Wait.
She can't see out. She can't tell us where the Fortress is.
Yes, they knew of your first contact, so they drove her below.
She was very faint. I was barely able to reach her.
The deeper she goes, the harder it is to contact her. Once she is below the second level, you will not be able to reach her at all.
I will find her!
I cannot reach her.
She is too deep. The curved tunnel we saw is part of the Vortex, the place of The Beast.
The first time, when they attacked long ago, was The Beast here?
No. Then they were led by his underlings. But I knew he had come this time, from the ferocity of their onslaught, from their use of The Fortress. They use up much of their strength to do these things. They are taking great risks.
<u>Why</u>?
I'm not sure.
But you suspect.
You will know, in good time.
No. We will find another way to locate the Fortress.
There is no other way. You asked me why the Beast had come this time.
Yes.
He has come for Lyssa.
Lyssa? <u>Why</u>?
Like you, she has extraordinary powers. He would make her his Queen.
Can she be forced?
No. She must agree of her own free will.
Never.
You are young. You don't understand the attraction of great power, and you forget the pain of long waiting.
Then we must reach her before she feels that pain.
Yes.
Traitor! She'll marry you in hell!
He thinks you betray him with Lyssa. Colwyn! The waters deceive you!
I will melt that gold and pour it down your throat, old man!
He sees betrayal everywhere. He will attack us so long as he is conscious.
From here, I must go alone.
You will tell me her name and we will go together.
You must never know her name. If more than one approaches, she will certainly kill them. Alone I may have a chance.
He ran a great risk, helping us today. If he opposes his fate, his death will be terribly painful.
Let us wish him peace.
They will hold Lyssa in the Center of the Vortex, the place of the Beast, where its power is greatest. No man can match it there. Lyssa must try to move toward us. For as we enter the Vortex and move closer ...
The Beast will kill her.
Yes. To keep her from you. But now that we are inside the Fortress, you will be able to contact her.
She must make a glaive.
Lyssa, your bracelets. Bend them straight and cross them.
The spiral begins in the west.
Where the spiral begins.
She's on the other side of this wall. I can feel it!
I chose the wrong passage.
She can see the Beast!
Use your sword.
What use is my sword? I can't reach her!
Cut. <u>Cut</u>!
You must move quickly. The Beast will stop at nothing now.
You're coming with us.
It is my fate to die in the Fortress.
No! You cannot know that!
I can. Because I choose it.
I forbid you!
You'll both wait. At least for five hours. The wedding is at three.
It was a platonic kiss, Father.
Of course it was.
They have Lyssa!
You can't reach her! Through the door. Quickly!
You will go alone.
I won't leave you here.
You will do as I tell you. You will try to reach Ynyr, the old one.
I must follow the Slayers. They've taken Lyssa.
You will not follow the Slayers, you will obey my command! You have no chance alone, boy. You must try to break through to Ynyr. He has great knowledge. Only with his help can you save Lyssa.
I'm sorry. I couldn't help it.
I don't have to go through with it either.
You don't understand. I'm just so <u>relieved</u>. I was <u>sure</u> you'd turn out to be short and fat and gimpy.
Oh. That. I know what you mean. I had nightmares all week.
Me too.
Last night was the worst. I dreamt you had one leg shorter than the other, and walked like a penguin.
Mine was worse: I dreamt you picked your nose in public.
That's worse.
You're really not bad looking. Almost handsome.
Well, you're beautiful.
You <u>might</u> be handsome. I can't tell through all that grime. Besides, you reek of sweat and horses.
If you're going to marry a warrior, you'd best get used to it.
I have no intention of getting used to it.
Take off your clothes. I'm going to scrub you down.
<u>What</u>?
We're almost married.
We're not married <u>yet</u>.
Well, then you can go up to the parapet and I'll hand the buckets up to you.
I don't trust you to wash behind your ears.
Never mind my ears! Go away!
There. Now you look like someone I might want to marry.
Maybe you'd better look around for another candidate. I don't think my skin is tough enough to survive a lifetime of you and your brush.
I don't have to look around. I've found the husband I want. You can kiss me now.
Thank you, but I can wait.
I can't.
I lied.
About what?
I can't wait either.
Lyssa ... Lyssa ...
Colwyn.
Have they harmed you?
No. They watch me closely, but they haven't harmed me.
Lyssa. Where are they keeping you?
In a great fortress in the mountains. Wait. Something's happening.
Lyssa ...
Colwyn ...
Where is the Fortress?
I don't know. It's a maze of tunnels. I can't see out.
I will find you. I will be with you.
I know it.
I love you, Lyssa, I love you ...
Colwyn. Colwyn. I love you, Colwyn.
Colwyn ...
You must move away from the Center.
All the passages are guarded.
Will your power outward.
I don't know how.
You have the power. <u>Will it</u>.
Take the western passage.
All directions are the same here.
Yes.
Move quickly. We are coming for you. We are in the Fortress.
I knew you would come.
Lyssa ...
Come quickly, Colwyn. I can see the eyes of the Beast.
In the Arctic ice.
That way. I can feel the cold.
That's a better one.
Yes.
Hello, Peter. You played an interesting game last night. Even though sacrificing your Queen at b5 is the game I played against Valsney in '82. I'm glad it helped you.
I'm sure you are.
No, I want you to do good. That way when I beat you at the end I'll look that much better.
You're getting sloppy, Yurilivich. You're nervous?
I'm not nervous.
Well, you should be, because this time I'm going to win.
Well, then this time you'll have to stay for the whole match, won't you?
Sorry. I thought it was empty.
It's alright.
Is this your first time here?
Yes.
I love this hotel. I stay here every time I visit my parents.
How come you don't stay with them?
Because I love them, but they drive me crazy. You know how parents are?
No. I don't.
Are you with the tournament?
Uh huh.
Are you one of the players?
Yes.
I've always wanted to learn how to play chess. I don't have the patience for it. When did you start playing?
When I was very young.
It seems like such a complicated game.
Not really. You see your goal and you go after it. Anything that gets in the way is an obstacle and must be destroyed.
Sounds very violent.
Chess is a reflection of life. Life is violent. The strong win. The weak perish.
but you enjoy being the stronger one? You like the control.
If you're asking me if I'm passionate about what I do, the answer is yes. Without passion, nothing moves us. What's your passion?
That's a very personal question.
I see. This is going to be a very polite conversation. What shall we discuss? The weather? Movies?
Are you disappointed that I won't answer you?
I had just hoped there would be more substance to the conversation.
I thought opening too quickly was a fatal mistake in chess.
It is.
Do you always open quickly?
Are we talking about me, or chess?
You.
Each circumstance requires a different tactic.
Well, I hope you remember that tomorrow when you play Krikorian.
Well, I think I've had enough.
Getting too hot in here for you?
What are you looking for?
Nothing. I just came in for a steam.
No you didn't.
They couldn't break the riddle.
Did you think it was going to be easy? You think he was going to lay it out at your feet?
We need your help.
I offered my help this morning and Sedman turned me down.
But you're the key. The one he wants to play the game with.
I can't right now. I've got a game.
She could be dead after the game.
She could be dead now.
What if she isn't? Where are your priorities? You have to think between someone's life and a chess game? The girl he killed last night was only twenty one years old! He dumped her body behind a warehouse like a sack of garbage!
You sure you don't want to eat something?
I don't think I could.
It's going to be a long night. It could take hours before we know something. You should try to eat.
You sound like my mother.
It wasn't intentional.
Does what's going on bother you at all? Or are you just wearing your game face?
I think it's interesting.
Another kind of game?
In a way.
This isn't a game.
Oh, but it is. He's killing a person everyday and challenging us to catch him. That's a game. It has rules and objectives.
How can you look at it so clinically?
Take your average cop. They deal with death everyday. If they let emotions get in the way it would cloud their judgement.
That's true  but the emotion is still there. They just learn to control it.
What about you? Aren't there times when a young child is telling you a story so sad you just want to cry?
Of course.
Do you?
Let's change the subject.
Okay. So, tell me about yourself. Are you married?
I'm just curious.
I think it's best if we don't ask too many personal questions  I want to keep things on a professional level.
You mean like in the steam room?
That's not fair!
Are you going to tell me you didn't feel something in there?
You're projecting your own desires and reading more into what happened than what actually did.
Very good. Spoken like a true psychologist. When confronted with the prospect of your own reality, hide behind quotations. What is that Masters and Johnson?
You have to win every point, don't you?
I just wanted to know if you're involved with anyone? Let me ask you something? Do your colleagues know if you're involved or not?
Of course.
Why?
Because I work with them.
No.
You're not?
No  I'm not involved. And I plan on keeping it that way.
Relax.
How the hell can I relax after seeing what I just saw.
I know it was bad.
How could you? Unless you were there.
I know you didn't
You know, Andy thinks you're doing this.
Doesn't that scare you?
No.
Why?
Because I think he's wrong.
Can you go fifteen minutes without thinking about it?
No. But I'm open to distractions.
I'm sure you are.
You know, you're not the easiest person in the world to get close to.
You always want to talk about me. What about you?
Wasn't I just talking about me?
No. You were talking about chess.
Alright. What about me?
I dunno. Where's Erica mother?
She died in a car accident.
I'm sorry.
It's alright. It was a long time ago.
It must've been very hard on Erica?
It was.
And you?
What?
Have you noticed that every time we start to talk about something serious you start to play games.
I'm not playing a game now.
Yes you are. You're playing word games.
What is this?
I'm just trying to get to know you, Peter.
What? By attacking me?
Nobody could attack you. You set your life up like one of your chessboards. You're impregnable  but at the same time you've become trapped behind your own defenses. You're cut off from everyone around you.
What are you talking about? You don't even know me.
Does anyone?
I just don't want to fight with you.
Then show me who you are.
This frightens me  because I'm starting to feel things I haven't felt in a long time.
You've got to face the things you feel.
I thought you were the woman who didn't want to get involved.
I said I didn't plan on getting involved.
You can turn everything around so easily. This is not just another game, is it?
No.
I'm hungry.
Call room service.
Fine.
What do you want on it?
You.
Would you settle for pepperoni?
If I have to. I'm going to take a shower.
Did you call?
The line was busy. I'll try again.
They're not delivering. I'm going to go pick up the pizza.
I thought you said the line was busy?
I tried again and got through.
What's wrong?
Nothing.
Then why are you backing up?
Peter, you have to admit
admit what? That I was right about you in the steam room? That you're willing to do anything to find out what you want? Would you like me to leave so you can search the rest of the room?
Peter...
How could you think that, Kathy? How could you even consider it?
In a fierce magazine you'll find a hint of my actions to come... Why does he set this line apart?
For emphasis?
Exactly. It's the key.
But what does he mean by a fierce magazine? Violent?
A fierce magazine... brutal... An angry magazine... A war magazine... a mercenary magazine... fierce... Mad.
What?
Where's the note?
He's replaying the game I played against him move by move, using these girls as the Chess pieces. All the girls have been found in their homes except Christie Eastman, who was found in back of a warehouse. Why?
Because to follow the game he played he had to move to that grid?
Right. Here! c4.
Hi.
Can I come in?
The other night  I said some things that maybe I shouldn't have. I mean, you haven't known me very long and I can see how you thought what you did.
I'm not looking for an apology, Peter.
I was thinking that... maybe when this is all over we could...
I want someone I can get close to. I don't know if that's possible with you.
You really haven't seen my best side.
Peter...
No, listen. You have no idea of the kind of pressure I'm under right now.
That's still no excuse. You treat everything like a game.
I can't think any more, unless it's about you. I'll be in the middle of a match and instead of thinking about my next move, I think about how you look when you smile. Remember how you said that I hide behind my chessboard? Ever since my wife died I've been... I've been afraid of getting too close to someone again  afraid of losing them.
You're wife died. You can't feel responsible for that.
You don't understand.
Then help me to understand. I want to understand.
It's not that easy.
Of course it isn't. It's always difficult when someone you love dies. But you can't feel responsible because she had a car accident.
But I do.
Why?
Because she killed herself!!
This letter. I've never opened it.
Why not?
Because I know what it says.
Maybe you're afraid of what it says.
If we could just figure out what the next word is going to be. He said the game's going to end tonight so there's only going to be one more word.
It could be anything.
It's got to be grammatically correct.
How did you know it was "carefully"?
Frank told me.
No he didn't.
You're right. The killer told me.
He didn't tell you either.
This isn't going to be like the phone book, is it?
Of course not.
You're going to be late for your match.
Are you going to come tonight?
Yeah. I'll be there later.
You beat him.
I got lucky.
There's a girl in the hospital who is going to live because of you. You made a difference.
It's over now.
I just wanted you to know in case you thought about it in the future.
Do we have a future?
Bainbridge Books.
Hi, Sara. This is Doctor Sheppard. I was wondering if you could tell me if you have a book on chess called "Principals and Tactics" by Anton Berger.
I can check and call you back.
Thank you. I'm at 6397393.
We'll call you back.
Bainbridge Books.
Sara, this is Doctor Sheppard. I called you earlier about a book.
Yes, Doctor Sheppard. We called you back but you weren't home. We have the book.
Could you please do me a big favor? In the first chapter the author mentions his three rules of chess. Could you look and tell me what they are?
Of course. Yes, here it is. Why, they're all the same?
What are they, please?
"Carefully". "Carefully". "Carefully".
You opened with the English. Lutz won't use it. He opened his first game with it.
He knows you're aware of that.
Then I'll transpose.
On a variation, yes  but it must be a variation that is unique.
I suppose you have something in mind?
It's a good play, but risky.
You don't win by playing it safe, Peter.
We got a problem?
Our computer went on the fritz again. David came up to fix it.
Is it serious?
Peter...
I've got be here for the police when they come. Then I've got to practise. In case you forgot I'm in the middle of a match right now.
You're always in the middle of a match.
I want to be the best I can.
You have something you want to say?
Just thought you might want to talk.
About what?
Whatever's on your mind.
Who says something's on my mind.
What do you see here?
Mate in five.
Exactly... and you did this.
She went into town with Mrs. Lutz. Did they get him?
No.
Feel like practicing?
Yeah. Just let me grab a shower.
I know you're busy so I'll get right to it. Did you know her?
Only in passing. To say hello to.
Could you tell me where you were last night?
Here. I played Gregory Lutz.
I know. You won two games against him and left the auditorium at eight forty five. Where did you go after that?
To my room and then I went for a walk.
This is a printout from the hotel computer for all the messages logged to your room. Here's one at 9:04 pm. It says: From Debi. Please call me at home.
She called to give me my schedule for tomorrow.
What's interesting about it is you say you only knew her in passing. Yet, she says on her message for you to call her at home and she doesn't leave a number. That would imply you already knew the number.
I got it from the tournament directory.
Why didn't you tell us you were there earlier?
I don't know. I was afraid there'd be hours of questions. I can't afford to miss a game.
Mister Sanderson, this is Doctor Sheppard. She's a psychologist helping us out.
We've already met. Haven't we... Doctor.
You want me to go with you? Maybe I can help.
That's alright. We'll take it from here.
What have you come up with on the riddle?
"Wee Willie Winkie runs though the street." We think he might be making a reference to himself.
Maybe, but I don't think so. I think it's just a tease.
Upstairs and downstairs in his night gown  He could be saying the house he's picked is two stories.
That's it?
We think he might be making a reference to drugs? Miss Emma is a street term used by junkies for Morphine.
Could Emma be the name of the girl he's going to kill?
Another one? What word did he leave?
"Is". Did you tell him about the institute?
As large as castles. You are still light as air, one hundred men can't move me.
It doesn't make sense.
He's using the map as a chessboard! The sonofabitch is playing chess with me!!
How can he be playing Chess with you? You're not making any moves against him.
Maybe I already have.
I still don't see how he could be playing chess against you. There's only enough grids on the map to be half a board.
That's all he needs. He's making the moves. It's an opening. I just can't remember the name. Okay, it's a game. He's starting it, so he moves first. He's white. e2e4.
It's a commercial area. No one lives there.
But he had to dump the body there to make the move.
As large as castles, you are still light as the air, one hundred men can't move me. It's posed as a question. What am I?
A building?
A building isn't as light as air. What's large, but as light as air and can't be moved?
He's not going to give us direct hints. He's going to skirt around it.
He uses castles...plural  then says "can't move me." Singular. Not can't move us.
A shadow. What's as big a castle? As light as air , but one hundred men can't move it? The shadow of the castle. Are there any buildings that have the name Castle in it that cast a shadow long enough to fall across another building?
Wait a minute. There's an apartment in that area called the Castle Arms.
That's got to be it.
Where were you last night?
Are we going to go through this again?
Answer the question.
I went out.
Jeremy would have never killed himself.
Maybe he just got tired of covering for you.
This is insane! Can't you see what's going on. The killer wants me out of the way. He's setting me up.
Don't you understand what I'm telling you? That's why he wants me out of the way.
I understand that this is just another one of your games.
Look, I'll do anything you want! I'll sign anything you want! Just send a car out to the hotel.
Alright, c'mon Peter. We're moving you to a cell.
I signed the confession. What about the car?
Did you send the car?
It's over, Peter. Let's stop the games. I'm not sending a car.
If you can think of anything else give us a call.
You know, I hate to say I told you so, but I warned her. Coming home at all hours of the night. A young girl new to the city. This neighborhood ain't what it used to be.
Excuse me... you said earlier that Mary Albert just moved in. How long ago was that?
Ten days ago.
Do you know how she found the apartment?
Through a rental agency.
Didn't you tell me that Debi Rutlege had just moved into her place also?
Well?
Well what? I told you this was a stupid idea. You can't learn anything from someone in a few minutes.
You didn't pick up any vibes from the guy?
I'm a psychologist, Frank... not a psychic. What's this all about anyway?
What did Dr. Fulton tell you?
Only that you wanted someone from the institute to talk to Sanderson for some case you're working on. What'd he do?
We're not sure.
What do you think he did?
We think he could be a suspect in a murder investigation.
I'm busy right now.
It's important.
I see you're still having problems with your openings.
And this Jeremy
Edmonds. I know. You lost to Karpov in '82, didn't you?
No. I told him to. I wanted to make sure there was someone on the other end.
But we heard him.
It could have been a tape. A prerecorded conversation between Sanderson and himself.
Kathy?
Well, the fact that he views this as a game suggests that he is trying to prove some sense of superiority  and the way he murders confirms a need to be in complete control of his victim.
What about the way he arranged the body?
That would indicate he's playing out a fantasy. Powercontrol killers usually fantasize about their actions long before they commit them. Once they become a reality though, they reach a sense of euphoria and need to repeat the act to sustain it. But, in all the research I've read on Serial Killers, I've never heard of one moving so fast. It's as if the game is the catalyst for the murders  not the other way around.
Anything else?
Yes. Why disguise your voice if no one knows it?
I was thinking the same thing. He must be local. It's logical for him to assume that the police would be there, but he recognized Andy's voice and called him by name. What about this?
I would think it's some type of clue as to where he's going to kill next?
I don't think it matters. Last nights victim, Christie Eastman was found in a warehouse on the outskirts of town. The night before, Debi Rutlege was found in the center.
Meaning?
His home would be... Mount Olympus.
Call dispatch. Double the patrols. I want that area blanketed.
Before we go in I gotta tell you this isn't going to be pretty.
I know that. I've seen the photo's.
This ain't no photo.
You never know how you're going to catch a suspect.
Peter's right, Captain. He's got to be forced into making a mistake.
Well, I think you have to play to his ego. He thinks he's superior. The more secure he feels, the more chances he'll take.
What did he mean by Huxley?
Maybe we should back up a minute and take a look at what we do have. All the girls that have been killed have been killed at night. They're all the same type. All moved into their homes within the last three months  and all of them found their homes through Homesearchers.
I thought that Homesearchers was a dead end?
It can't be a coincidence. The woman that owns it has a son. She says he's been on vacation in Montana for the last ten days. We're trying to locate him. There's also a cleaning service that comes in once a week. We're checking that out too.
He moves around a lot. Why?
Each of those grids represents almost a square mile.
That's a big area to cover.
As large as castles.
Yes. Why not just say a building if he meant any general type of structure?
What time did he get there?
About a quarter to one.
He's right, Kathy.
What are you saying? That I'm seeing what I want to see? That I'm protecting a murderer? What?
We can't rely on your judgement anymore.
What does that mean?
And what if he's wrong. If you were one hundred percent sure it was Peter you would've arrested him. If it is someone else then he's going to kill again tonight and you're sitting here ignoring the message.
We're going to work on the message.
This stinks! You want to know what I think? I think there have been five murders and you've got shit to go on. You need to blame someone and he's the easiest choice.
The most logical choice.
You don't have a shred of evidence!
Did you see his face?
No. He was wearing a mask... but I saw the cut on his wrist. It was Peter.
I can't arrest someone for having a cut on their wrist. Do you have someone you can stay with tonight?
I've got a room at the institute I use when I stay late.
Okay. Why don't you go out there. We'll check in with you later.
Whaddaya got, Nolan?
Not much. There's no sign of a break in. I think she let him in.
How long has she been dead?
Six, eight hours tops.
Any sign of rape?
Not that I can see. We'll know more once I get the lab reports back from Seattle.
There's no blood. Where's the fuckin' blood?
Bingo.
Anything?
Not much. I don't think she was raped. There's no bruising, or any signs of trauma to the pelvic region  and no trace of sperm which makes sense because she took a bath.
What about prints?
No prints.
You mean, no prints but hers?
No Frank. No prints.
He tapes their mouths shut. We found traces of adhesive around the victims mouths. We're doing a chemical analysis for components, but it's probably a standard brand you can buy in any hardware store.
There's only two hardware stores on the whole Island. We'll check that out. What about the blood?
Not a drop. Maybe the guy works for the Red Cross.
This is where he forced his way in. We found some fibers on the windowsill, probably particles of clothing that rubbed off when he climbed through. I'll know more once I get it under the microscope.
That's great.
Wait, I've saved the best for last. Andy, hit the lights, will you?
Same as the others?
Yeah.
How long she been dead?
I'd say at least eighteen hours.
That means she was dead before we even finished figuring out the message.
Congratulations, dad.
My cheering section.
What are you doing up?
I can't sleep. My beds lumpy.
I see. You forgot to bring you're nightlight, didn't you?
That has nothing to do with it.
You want to sleep in my bed tonight?
Okay.
Who told you that?
Mrs. Lutz. She also told me that Mr. Lutz goes to a medium to try and contact great Grandmasters in the spirit world.
Has he gotten through to any?
No, but he did contact a dead parcheesi champion from Ohio.
What is it, dad?
Nothing.
Don't you have something you want to say to David?
Thanks, David.
You ready?
For what?
You told me you'd take me over to Seattle today.
I'm sorry, honey, I can't. Not today.
But you promised.
It isn't Kathy.
Who's Kathy?
You must be Erica.
Uh huh.
I'm Kathy.
Is your dad here?
He went down to the lobby for a minute. He should be right back. Would you like come in?
So, are you having a good time on the Island?
Not really. It's pretty boring.
That's only because you don't know where to go. You like hiking? Fishing? Sailing? What do you like?
Boys.
Do you like my dad?
Of course.
I know he really likes you.
How do you know that? Did he say something?
No... but I can tell. A woman knows these things.
Okay. Nice meeting you.
Nice meeting you.
You might not have done it had you known.
You're damn right! I'm a child psychologist and you send me into a room with someone who could be a murderer!
Would you mind keeping your voice down? I have guests.
Oh, well we wouldn't want to disturb your guests, would we?
The police came to me for help. What could I do?
You could have been honest with me for starters. We work together. I have to be able to trust you.
I admit I handled it badly. Sanderson wasn't going to talk to me... but you're young, attractive
the same type as the girl who got killed. Jesus, Alan, the guy could be a psychopath.
They asked who would be best suited for this and you
Don't patronize me! You sent me into a potentially dangerous situation and didn't warn me!
It worked out alright, didn't it?
Fuck off!
Feeling better?
I just can't believe it.
You don't want to believe it. It's a normal reaction.
How come the police never had a record of Sanderson before. This doesn't come out of nowhere, there has to be a history.
Kathy, please. You're going to wear a hole in the carpet.
I'm just nervous. Sorry.
You're safe. He wouldn't come here.
He already did once.
Why did he?
Why did he what?
Come here.
He was watching you.
Yeah  that's what we've always thought  but what if he wasn't? What if I had nothing to do with the reason he came here?
You're losing me.
Naw, it's all fixed. I also loaded up a program that'll analyze your games three hundred percent faster.
Thanks.
What's this?
Oh, I put a few games on for your daughter. I hope you don't mind.
Of course not.
Sure. We've got a modem line hooked up with the data base in New York.
Can we correlate data? Look for specific things, like player's ages... stuff like that?
No problem. We're in.
Okay. Run a search to see if there are any players with a rating above two thousand that live on the Island.
Nope. Nothing.
Set up some pieces on the big board?
D2d4... b1c3... and c1f4. It's the number two variation of the Tarakoss opening. David, can you bring up the tournament records for the last ten years.
Mister Sanderson, they'll be hundreds of thousands of games.
Now what?
Have computer search for anyone that's used that opening against me. There can't be more than a handful.
There's three. The first is 1983. Lionel Baines. The Boston...
Never mind. He died two years ago.
1985. Hans Korshaud.
He's in his seventies and lives in Holland.
What is it?
New York. 1986. Viktor Yurilivich.
Computers. That's how you got into Homesearchers records. You can get into anything. But why? Why?
You still haven't figured it out, have you? You think that I've put you through an ordeal. My scars run so much deeper than yours.
What scars?
The scars on your chest. From where I stabbed you with my fountain pen.
This isn't going to help, David. You're mother's dead. You can't undo it.
You don't understand.
Yes, I do. I found your file. I know what happened.
They took away the game because of him. My father left and my mother... There was so much blood... It covered everything.
I know, but this isn't going to bring her back.
Don't you see? I had to make it right. I ignored my mother's crossing. I sat with them all. I held their hands. I stroked their hair. I was with them to the end. I took away the blood. I washed them. Their crossing was peaceful.
I think your mother knows that now. Why don't you put the knife down. Put it down, David.
Hello, Peter.
Who is this?
Someone who's going to become an important part of your life. I want to play a game with you.
I haven't got time for this.
Hello, Peter.
Just a second. Hello?
Very amateurish, Peter. I'm surprised you would use such an obvious tactic. I'm not an idiot! Don't treat me as one! I'll call you everyday... You get one minute, whether you put me on hold or talk is up to you! Are you ready to play?
Yes. Why did you kill Debi Rutlege?
To get your attention.
Did you know her?
No, only the path she chose to travel.
And  what path is that?
We all have paths to follow. You hope yours will lead you to me.
Why did you write remember on the wall?
That's something you'll have to figure out for yourself. Really, Peter, you can't expect me to answer such direct questions.
Why not?
You don't want to think and that's why I'll win! I'm already two points ahead.
What?
I did another one last night. You might have saved her, but you didn't want to play.
Where is she?
You'll find her.
If you got something to say to me, just come out and say it!
I suppose you want to know where I'm going to kill tonight, Peter?
You're not going to tell me that.
"Wee Willie Winkie runs through the town. Upstairs and downstairs in his nightgown. Crawling through the window. At the end of Miss Emma's street. Her God has gone and left his home. So her and I can meet."
Hello?
Do you know what I'm doing right now, Peter? I'm looking at the name of the girl I'm going to kill tonight.
You know her?
Not really.
Why her?
Because she's the type.
But you said you didn't know her.
I know what I said! She looks just like...
Just like who?
I really wish you'd stop trying to maneuver me. I find it irritating, not to mention insulting.
I'm just trying to play the game.
You're not playing very well. There are clues all around you and you keep missing them.
I'm sure there are other people who would be interested in what I have to say.
Then call them!
Just for that no hint today.
Why are you doing this? You must have some idea of the pain you're causing people.
Pain? Pain is just a state of mind. It's something you learn to live with. I have.
And you want these girls to feel your pain?
Please, I don't want to get into the psychological aspects of my actions. It would detract from the game.
How?
I couldn't say it any better than Huxley.
Huxley's quote also says, "his play is always fair and just."
So is mine, within the framework of my rules.
Have you any idea what the message is?
If it's so important, why don't you just tell me?
I couldn't tell you that. It would ruin the game. Not that you're playing it very well.
You like to brag, don't you?
What?
You heard me. Why did you go out to the institute looking for her?
What makes you think I was there?
I couldn't tell you that. It would ruin the game.
The game's almost over, Peter, and you're running out of time.
It's you who's running out of time. You're starting to make mistakes now. You're wondering just how much I really know. Just how close I'm getting? Well, I'm closer than you think, pal  and I'm gonna nail your ass to the wall!
Very nice speech, Peter. Did you rehearse that, or was it impromptu? There's an old wooden bench in the garden. Next to it is a rock. You'll find a message for you under it. Let's see if you're as clever as you think you are.
Hello.
Last night was very exciting, wasn't it? Have you figured out what I'm doing?
You're playing the Tarakoss opening.
Very good.
You're next move should have been e2 e3.
I used a variation. You should have anticipated that. Have you figured out the message?
What word did you leave last night?
The police haven't told you?
They think that you and I are doing this together.
Interesting concept. I hadn't thought of that. If you think about how Anton Berger plays chess you might get it.
I'm beginning to think it doesn't mean anything. Remember eventually revenge 
you're hopeless! You can't even read a sentence! Didn't they teach you punctuation in school? The game ends tonight!
Hello, Peter.
You sonofabitch!
Emotional? I expected more from you.
If you kill tonight and I'm in jail the police will know I'm innocent.
By that time the game will be over.
I've figured out the message.
No you haven't. And even if you had it doesn't matter. Who would you tell? The police don't believe you, and you've just used your only phone call.
Yes?
Congratulations on your daring escape. You just missed me by a few seconds. It's check, Peter.
Let me speak to my daughter.
She's in the other room. I just wanted you to know she wasn't dead... yet. But it's time for her to die now.
Please... wait.
The game's over. You lost.
It's me you want. Not her.
No. As usual you're wrong. It is her I want. Killing you would be easy. Living with the consequences of losing will be much more of a defeat.
That wouldn't be very sporting. Remember Huxley? "His play is always fair and just."
You're groping. I have been fair. It's my move now.
I'll give you anything you want. Anything! Please!
Don't beg, Peter. She has to die. I can't win unless she dies.
I was thinking about leaving the phone line open so you could hear her die  but I've decided it's better if you don't know exactly when I kill her. Goodbye Peter.
No! Wait!!
I know where you are.
Very good. How did you know?
The pipes.
How'd you know I wouldn't be in the same room with her?
You told me. When you called you said she was in the other room. Drop the knife.
You should be an actor, Frank. You looked like you were really mad. The veins popping out on your neck was a really nice touch.
You weren't mad at him for picking up the phone?
Why does he call Sanderson?
He's one of the best Chess players in the world. Who better to play a game with?
Sending yourself anonymous notes in the mail is one thing  but who called him today?
I don't know. Maybe there's two of them. Maybe he hired some Wino to make the calls.
Maybe you're reaching a bit? I think Sanderson should be in on this. There's a reason why the killer's calling him.
A few people.
Did anyone stand out?
What do you mean, stand out?
Did anyone look suspicious? Think!
Now that you mention it there was somebody who looked suspicious.
What was suspicious about him?
It doesn't make sense because we don't understand it.
But a hundred men could move him.
Don't fuck with us! Where did you go!
He was with me?
Remember eventually revenge is carefully... Have you tired juxtaposing the words?
Oh, c'mon. We're not going to spend any more time on this crap, are we? It doesn't mean anything. It's Sanderson!
It isn't him. Frank, you brought me in on this in the beginning because you wanted my opinion if he was capable of doing this.
Jesus, you're sleeping with the guy. You've lost your perspective. You can't possibly be unbiased.
We'll find the evidence.
You couldn't find your dick in a wind storm!
Sorry to ruin your trip to the city, but we got a real nut on our hands, Frank.
Run it down.
Debi Rutlege. Female. Caucasian. Twenty four. Worked over at the Four Oaks Hotel.
Local?
No. She just moved here last month from Portland.
What do you think?
He's got an answer for everything, but he doesn't have an alibi.
You think he's dirty?
I don't know, but I think you're right. He's lying.
We wouldn't want someone's death to interfere with your games.
What was your relationship with her?
Take it easy. Both of you.
I'm sorry, this is just too convenient.
No shit!
Could someone this disturbed give the appearance of being normal?
Sorry.
Anything?
The F.B.I. has nothing remotely similar to this guy. I think he's a first timer.
Check with the State. If he's never killed outside of Washington the F.B.I. wouldn't have it. Nolan?
You still having a problem with this?
Yeah, I am. I think he's playing us. If I was a killer and the police were trying to make a case against me, what better why to draw them off than to put their attention on someone else?
We've checked. There's no one with the last name of Emma on the Island.
Maybe he's going to drug her?
How is she?
She's unconscious, but they think she's going to make it.
You alright?
I've seen a lot of things in my time on the job, but nothing like this. Yurilivich?
I was with him the whole time until I got the call at the hotel.
Sanderson?
I spoke to Jeremy. He's watching Sanderson's kid. Sanderson went out after the match and hasn't come back since.
Find him! I want to talk to him.
What is it?
It's a voice modulator.
Ready for round two?
I've got a feeling we're going to go the distance with him. Let him sweat for a little while.
You want me to what?
I want you to feed every street in this grid into your computer.
It'll take hours. You can't make me do this.
You're right, I can't make you do it. Besides, you're probably gonna be too busy with the Franchise Tax Board anyway.
What are you talking about?
I gotta friend over there. He was telling me things are kind of slow. So, I figured I'd give him a call, have him come down here and look through your records. You know, give him something to do.
What's the first street?
I've talked to a few people who say you and her were... friendly?
Chess tournaments can be boring sometimes. People have a lot of free time. They like to gossip.
By yourself?
Yes.
We seem to have a little problem here?
What kind of problem?
I think you're lying. That's what kind of problem.
What are you saying?
Casual.
Casual? You were boning her weren't you?
It wasn't serious. What's your problem?
You are! I don't like you.
Fine, don't ask me out on a date.
What's that supposed to mean?
It means, if I were a killer and I thought the police were closing in on me I might invent someone to try and put them off the scent.
That's crazy! Why would I draw attention to myself like that?
You like to play games, don't you, Peter?
He says on the photo he'll call tomorrow at eleven. Why not come back then and listen for yourself.
Oh, we'll be back. You can bet on it.
Meaning, it looks like his victims are chosen at random.
No.
What do you mean, no?
He says it's a game. All games have a strategy.
All you gotta do is look at the map.
His victims aren't random. It only means that they appear to be random. There's a connection, we just have to find it.
Morpheus.
What?
Not what  who. Morpheus. The Greek God of dreams. Look at the next line. "Her God has gone and left his home."
Are you crazy?
Let's see how much he wants to play.
What in the hell do you think you're doing? Slamming down the phone in the middle of the trace.
You think you're going to catch him on a trace? Everything he does is planned out well in advance. The only way we're going to get him is to rattle him  make him slip up.
We didn't ask for your opinion, Doctor.
Maybe you should.
You don't tell us how to run our investigation. You got that?
You don't have an investigation without me. You got that?
You know, I figure that's pretty much how these girl's feel just before they get it. You think I'm right?
I wouldn't know.
That's right. I guess only the killer would know that.
How'd you get in here?
The door was open.
No it wasn't.
Of course it was. Otherwise I'd be breaking and entering. That's a felony.
What do you want?
You ever do any hunting, Peter?
No.
I used to. With my old man. He taught me how to hunt and trap. Trapping's a lot harder than most people think. We used to go after Raccoons mostly. They'd get into our garbage, our fields. When an animal can't live peacefully with those around it, it has to be destroyed. But they're crafty little devils. You see the trick is, you can put your trap down, but no Raccoon is going come near it unless you lay down the scent. You ever smell Raccoon scent? Smells like shit, but to a male Raccoon it smells just like pussy. He'll walk right up to that trap, even though it don't look nothing like a Raccoon and stick his Goddam head right in it. You know why? Cause he can't help himself. The scent drives him. So, if you want to catch a Raccoon all you gotta do is figure out where he is  lay down the scent  and sooner or later he'll walk right into the trap.
What if he doesn't bite? What if he's an exceptionally bright Raccoon?
Well then, you just gotta find out where he is  and once you're sure where he is  you shoot the fucker.
You got it on the board.
No, I need the original note.
There's a photostat of the original on the wall.
He's not talking about himself.
Then what's he talking about?
If we knew that we'd know the answer to the riddle, wouldn't we? He's telling us where he's going to kill tonight and we can't see it.
Then let's narrow it down.
Homesearchers.
We're interested in where you were from the time you left the auditorium until you got there.
I was at the beach.
You sure you weren't over on Pine Road?
I'm positive.
You're a lying bastard!
Fuck you! I'm tired of your goddam accusations! If you want to arrest me go ahead! Otherwise back off.
It's all a big game isn't it? A sick, fuckin' game. I don't know if there's two of you involved, or what  but we're going to find out. Last night you gave us just enough to send us to the wrong place. It must've shocked the hell out to you when Frank walked in on Pine Road and you couldn't finish.
Yes you are.
Get off me!
You set yourself up tonight when you attacked Kathy, you crazy fuck!
What?
The message! I figured out
Sit down!
What man? What is it?
Yo, let me get in your parent's room man. Just fir a little while.
I can't man.
Come on Steven hook me up. Do me this solid. Come on man. I gotta get Darcy alone. She's gonna let me fuck her man. Please.
Shit. All right. But don't fuck with anything OK?
OK.
First times are always wacked. Just be glad you didn't lose your virginity in the backseat of a rental car.
That shit is nothin'. I remember, I had just turned 14. With this fuckin' asshole who was like 18. I don't even remember his name. I think it was John or Jake or something. I remember he had a brother named Lentil because I would always joke and call him Lentil Bean. This was away at like sleep away camp with your friends and shit.
Slow.
It's grandmother style.
Yeah.
It's very monotonous.
Right.
And we were like underneath the sheets. We were going at it like crazy. Oh my God that shit was so good! It was like hard...
Yeah.
He was like sucking my tits. He was fucking fingering me. But that shit was nice and hard.
Yeah. And it takes them either too long or too short to come. Have you ever had someone that took forever
To come?
Yeah. I had sex with Jake, and it took him like an hour and a half.
It was... it was.
It's like sweet and sour, and salty butter.
No, no, no. You can't get that taste out of your mouth. Until you eat something.
Yeah.
You can drink like there's no tomorrow but you still can't get that sperm between the teeth out. It's so disgusting.
Hello?
It's me. Telly.
Hello?
Paul it's Telly. Open up.
What are you guys doing?
Nothing. We just wanted to come by and see what you were up to.
You want a wipit?
Nah.
So, how many people live here now?
I don't know, eight or nine.
Where does everyone sleep?
Everywhere. Fuckin' flophouse. We're still short on the rent. If you want, you and Casper can move in. You guys can share the bathtub.
That's the whole thing. You know if you look at it. I mean all you hear about is disease this and disease that. And everyone's dying. And you better wear a condom or else. But the truth is. I don't know any kids with AIDS. No one I know has ever died from that shit. It's like some weird makebelieve story that the whole world believes.
Yep.
Hi mom.
Hi Telly. Where you been?
Sorry. Dad made me promise not to give you any money until you find a job.
But then I won't need your money.
That's right.
Mom.
Shh.
I'm gonna go out for a little while.
When are you gonna be back?
Not too late.
Fourthirty in the morning?
Not too late.
Hey Mom. Are you sure I can't get any money? Just a few bucks.
If I had it, maybe. But right now I don't have a penny to my name.
All right.
How can you hang out with Casper? He's such a jerk.
You think so?
Yeah. I've always hated that kid. He used to eat glue in like seventh grade.
He still does.
I hate 'em.
It's not his fault. He had a hard life.
Yeah?
You've heard the stories right?
No.
So that's why Casper is how he is.
Oh god. That's horrible.
Yep.
Holy shit. That's all true?
No. I was just kidding.
What?!
I lied. His dad is still alive. He works for the post office.
Yep. That's the best way. It's that boom boom boom.
Right. You know it's not like... You know there's a difference between sex, making love, and fucking!
Yep.
Making love is like.
Sweet.
Yeah.
It's like...
You know what it's like. It's like when you really love someone, it's like awww.
Yeah.
Its like. But it gets boring. It's boring.
It's really slow. It's slow boring.
Yeah. Mine are my toes. Oh my God if someone sucks my toes I'll come in like ten seconds!
Yeah. It depends. Cause like this one time with Eric, when we got blasted at his house. And Smash J and DJ Flipper was there...
Oh shit.
And we were blasted, and he must have been dumb horney. And he just pulled me over to the bed. And they were in the room, like getting dressed, like getting ready to go to go to Disco
Yep.
But then the sex gets into the way and you're like: What happened! What the hell happened?!
Yeah it's the biggest disappointment!
Yeah. The shit gets wacked. Fifteen minutes.
Yeah. Fifteen minutes to a half an hour. Hard and deep.
Me. I can only take it up to fifteen minutes. Cause I get bored.
Yeah I get bored.
I start thinking about what I'm gonna eat afterwards.
I've known the past of all the people I've fucked without a condom. Like I know one of the people got tested and was negative.
Yeah.
And I know that one of them fucked like two other girls, who were both virgins, so I knew he was safe.
Yeah.
And the other person I just fucked, which was a mistake. But I went to the clinic last week with Jennie.
I made her get tested with me because I didn't want to go alone.
Did they ask you a lot of questions?
Yeah. And sex is just like, yeah let's have sex.
It's like yeah whatever. But when you fuck. You wanna fuck that person. You're like ripping each other's hair out. Ooooh.
You know... You know a lot of times sex gets in the way. Has that ever happened to you?
Yep.
You know. Because sometimes the foreplay is just so good. And then when it actually comes time for sex. It's like the worst letdown.
I was like yes! I'm going out with him!
That's right. That's why foreplay is better than sex.
Yep.
Because he can like climax you up to that...
And you don't get shit out of it.
Have you ever swallowed it before?
Uh, let's see here, would you happen to have diss digg?
Whah?
Diss digg. I'm curious if you have it?
Whah is dissdee?
Diss digg, diss digg, diss digg.
I no understand you. Maybe crazy.
I'll ask you one last time. Do you have diss digg?
Whah you say? Dissdee?
Just a lot of crazy shit.
Yeah?
Yeah. Have you seen Telly around?
Yeah. Speaking of stupid shit. Him and his ape ass of a friend Casper, they all just almost killed some kid.
What happened?
I don't know. Just some messy little scrap. You know that bullshit.
Do you know where he went?
I'm not sure. He said something about meeting Darcy. I think he likes her now.
Who, Benny's little sister?
Yeah. She should be at Nasa tonight. Why you lookin for him? You like him now or sometin'?
Telly says was up.
I knew he wouldn't want to speak to me. That dick.
You still mad at him?
Of course. How am I gonna forgive him after what he did?!
The pain. The fucking pain!
And you feel like you're being ripped open inside.
You are being ripped open.
I know.
Did you bleed?
I didn't bleed.
You didn't?
No, I didn't bleed.
Hell yeah. I love. I love sex.
Foreplay. Foreplay.
Right. You're like it's just this instinct. It's like this animal instinct is taking over you. It's like...
Passion...
Boom!!! Boom!!!
Yep, yep. But he has to know what he's doing and where he's going. Because they can like touch you for hours and they won't ever know.
Hell yeah, they don't know.
Like where are your erogenous zones?
Mine?
Mine are like my neck and my chest.
I hate sucking dick!
Yeah. 'Cause they fucking shoot you in the eye, the face, the ear.
And sometimes it takes a long time, and you're fucking gagging.
Yeah. And then it hits that little thing. That little punch bag. What is it? The tonsils. The esophagus, whatever.
Yeah. And you're not getting anything out of it.
And it's like. How much more can I bob here? You know.
Wish me luck.
Good luck.
Shh. Come on, it's gonna be OK.
That's it. I'm gonna have to tell my little brother, I'm gonna die. I can't make him his lunches anymore.
Come on. Don't cry. We'll work it out.
I only did it once and...
I gotta go. I gotta find Telly.
Don't go anywhere. Stay with me.
I gotta find him.
I'm coming.
No. I just gotta go find him.
Hello.
Hello Paul. Is Telly inside?
Is Telly there? This is Paul. Who is this?
It's Jennie. Just tell me if Telly is there.
Oh hi Jennie. Do you want to come make out with me?
I'm fucking serious. Where's Telly?
Telly's not here right now. I believe he went downtown. Casper too.
Can I ask you a question? I'm sorry. I don't mean to be a pest.
What?
Well, I don't mean to be a pest. It was just that I was looking at you. And you look upset. I liked looking at you, but your face looks upset. And I was wondering if I could be of any assistance? Maybe I could cheer you up or somethin. Help make you happy. Who knows? Somethin' maybe.
No. I'm OK. Thanks.
You're OK?
Yeah.
Because gee, you don't look OK. I mean you're a very beautiful young lady. It's just that you look troubled that's all...
Yeah well, it's been a bad day.
A bad day! You wanna hear a bad day? Yesterday my son was smashed over by a car and when my wife found out she collapsed on the floor. She had a minor heart attack. Partial paralysis. But I don't let myself get sad. No way. Not me. It's not good for the soul.
Sorry.
Oh it's OK. That's life. Maybe tomorrow I'll win lotto. Who knows? You don't. No one does.
Miss, would I be prying?
Everything is wrong.
No, not everything? The sun is still shinning. It's a beautiful day out. Some things are OK. Right?
Yeah, I guess so.
Did you and your boyfriend just break up?
No.
Are you in trouble with the law?
No.
Am I getting warm?
Now that's it. A smile. You look like a prom queen when you smile. Like a glamour girl.
Yeah?
Oh yeah, sure. When I was a kid I had a crush on the prom queen. Darlene Louis. She had a big black mole in the center of her face that used to get me so excited. Darlene Louis. You know you look a little bit like her.
Thanks.
Yeah. Right around the cheeks and chin. Boy did I have a crush on her. She was the first girl I ever put my tongue in her mouth.
I swear to God. Sometimes he barks. I can hear him straight off my arm. Ruff, ruff, he goes.
Yeah?
Yeah. I'm not saying you should get a tattoo. But you should make yourself happy.
What if you can't make yourself happy? What if everything falls apart?
Well then, I don't know. You know what you do then? You forget. Block it out. I remember when I was a little boy. My grandmother told me to be happy. She said. She said, "Leon, my darling little grandson. If you want to be happy don't think. Don't bump into any walls. If you stutter. Don't talk" And I took her advice. And look at me now. Couldn't be happier.
Your a real philosopher.
Yeah. I was gonna write a book but I can't spell.
How old are you?
15.
How many people have you had vaginal intercourse with?
One.
Were you protected?
Have you ever had anal intercourse?
No.
Jennie. You've tested positive for the HIV infection.
What?
The test isn't one hundred percent accurate. You should...
I tested positive?
I'm sorry.
But I only had sex with Telly.
Dance!
What?
Come dance.
I don't feel so well. Have you seen Telly anywhere?
Telly is at Steven's. There's a bunch of people over there. Come on dance.
Telly is at Steven's?
I guess so.
You know what I want to do?
Yeah.
What do I want to do?
You want to fuck me. But you can't fuck me.
Why?
Because, you know why. You know.
Because your a virgin?
Because I'm a virgin and I don't want no baby.
You think I want a baby? When you're with me, you don't have to worry about that kinda stuff.
Why is that?
Because I like you. I think you're beautiful. I think if we fucked you would love it. You wouldn't even believe it.
I wouldn't believe it?
I don't know. I just think that you would love it.
But, I don't know. I'm just scared that things would change. Between us.
What things? I'm telling you, nothing's going to change. I want to make you happy. That's all.
You know it won't hurt. I'll be gentle. I promise.
Do you care about me?
Of course I do.
Jennie, Jennie. How do you feel?
Fine Fidget. What's all this?
Oh man. You gotta see this. It's a spectacle. A real spectacle.
Who are they?
I don't know. I've never seen any of them before. Cornballs from Jersey on X. Feelin' the effex.
What is it?
Bang up stuff.
This makes Special K look weak. It's a euphoric blockbuster.
No, Fidget, I...
Come on Jennie. You look sad. Just take it.
No...
Here. Swallow.
Hey.
Hey. What are you doin' right now?
I was just getting ready to take a bath.
Don't take a bath. Come swimmin' with us!
Come on. Come swimmin' with us.
Right now?
Yeah. Come on.
Hold on.
Ooh. You're gonna give me goose bumps.
Is it cold?
You know I've been thinking about you lately.
You have?
Yeah. After I saw you last week.
At the block party?
Yeah.
I was lookin' for you all day today.
You were?
Sure. I even thought about you when I woke up.
I thought you had a girlfriend.
Naw. I'm not seeing anybody. What about you?
No. I can't. My mom won't let me have boyfriends.
She won't? Why not?
I don't know. I guess it's cause my sister Nicki had a baby when she was like 15. She was really young so my mom is like very protective over me.
Yeah. I can understand that.
You should come back with me to Steven's house.
Tonight?
Yeah. His parents are away. It's gonna be a bug out.
I don't know. I'm supposed to go to Nasa tonight.
Come on. You can rave on another night.
Come on. It'll be fun. We'll just bug out. There should be a bunch of people. It'll be fun I promise.
Yeah?
Yeah. It'll be nice. It'll be a change of pace. That club shit gets boring.
Do you like kissing me?
Yes.
Uh huh.
I think you're like the best girl I've ever kissed.
I don't even want to talk, but I gotta tell you that when I first saw you last week, I, I couldn't stop thinking about you. You've been stuck in my head.
Come on.
No. No, I'm serious. I'm not joking. I just like you. That's all.
I like you too.
I'm nervous.
Trust me. Don't be nervous.
I like you so much. I think you're beautiful. I think if we fucked you would love it. You wouldn't believe it.
How do you know?
I just know. I know you'll love it.
But I'm scared Telly.
I'm telling you. There's nothing in the world to worry about.
Nothing?
Nothing. I'm telling you I just want to make you happy. That's all. Just trust me.
I don't want you to hurt me.
I don't want you to hurt you. I'll be gentle.
Do you care about me?
Of course I do.
Yeah watch the fuck where you skate. You know what I'm saying?
Yeah, watch where you walk dukes.
What?
Nuffin' G. Just forget it.
What the fuck yo? You wanna catch a beat down?
Sup then? Sup?
Come on bitch. Throw your fists up.
Sup. Sup.
Come on nigga. Sup, sup then? Stop faking moves.
I'm gonna fuck you up bitch.
Casper! Was up kid?
Nothen' B.
Where you at?
Right here.
Where you goin' tonight?
Maybe Nasa. I don't know.
You goin'?
Yeah.
I'm goin'. You on the list?
Probably. Fuck that, I'll sneak in. I need some female vagina tonight.
I had a female vagina last night.
Yo, you think we killed that guy?
Na.
You sure?
I don't know. But all I know is that I kicked him so many times my fuckin' toe feels broken.
Yo, we might have killed him. You think?
Man we fucked him up.
Hell ya. We broke that mothafucka.
No I'm serious. Can I suck your tit? Either of you guys. I don't care.
Yeah me too.
I don't know. I just never seen girls that did that shit before. But I think it looks nice.
Yeah. Do it again.
Casper.
Hey Jennie. Long time no see. What are you doing here?
Casper, where's Telly.
What do ya want with Telly? That guy has enough bitches.
Casper, where is he?
Don't look for him. He's doing fine. He's gotta girl. He's fuckin' her right now in Steven's parents' room. So do ya know Joe.
Shit.
Was up bitch?
What do you think?
You fucked it?
I knew you fucked it! I sat out here for like two hours! That girl was like twelve, and you hit it up!
Who am I? Who am I? The mothafuckin' virgin surgeon.
Well, how was it?
Oh my god, so good. That girl can fuck.
She can fuck?
Hell yeah. That bitch was bleeding. When I first put it in she screamed real loud. I saw her bite down on the pillow.
Oh shit. How long did it take?
Did what take?
How long did you fuck her?
Well it took me longer than I thought it would take. It took like 15 minutes to talk her into it. But once it was on, we fucked for a good half an hour. I had to keep taking it out and putting it back in. It hurts the first time.
Yeah.
But then when she got into it. She really got into it. It was good.
How did she smell? Did her puss stink?
Oh man, it smells like butterscotch.
Hell's yeah. She was so clean.
Oh man, that's the best.
You could tell she took care of herself. She had all these powders and creams in her bathroom.
Let me smell it again.
You know what else?
What?
I can tell that she had just entered puberty.
How?
Well, I was flipping through a picture book of her and her family, right.
Right.
And there was this picture of her painting Easter eggs or something. And I said, you were cute when you were little.
Yeah.
And she goes, yeah that picture was taken less than a year ago. I look younger without my makeup.
And I looked at her, and thought to myself Oh my god, this girl is a baby.
Yeah.
And for a second I felt a little bit guilty. You know, because she's young and all. And then I was like, oh shit, that turns me on. I wanna fuck this little baby girl.
I'm telling you Casper. I think I'm getting addicted to that shit.
To what? Virgins?
Yeah. It's like all I think about now. Not just that, it's like lately during sex, I start dreaming about these complex fantasies.
What do you mean?
I mean I'm dreaming about going all out, crazy shit.
You mean like fucking two virgins at once.
That would be good. But I mean more like. I don't know. Like when I was having sex with her, I kept thinking how much I would like to put it in her ass. Just to see what would happen.
She's probably smash you in the fucking face.
I don't know about that. She was pretty into it. But I wasn't gonna try. The whole thing is, you just gotta take it slow. Show 'em some respect.
Did you tell her that you loved her?
Like. Like. Never love. Love is for lowlevel virgin seduction guys.
Shit.
What do you want?
Get another forty. Smoke a blunt.
Are you hungry?
Hell yeah. Fuckin' starvin'. Wait up a sec.
You wanna go to Paul's house?
What for? That guys a dick.
I'm sure he's got food. He's always got those microwave burrito things in his freezer.
You think he's got any herb?
I don't know, he quit dealin' but I'll bet he'll smoke us out.
You think?
Probably.
He lives on 76th?
78th.
Den less go Joe.
Telly.
Yeah.
Did she suck your dick?
A little bit. But I didn't really want her to.
Why?
I don't know. That's too easy. I mean getting a virgin to suck your dick. That's so easy.
It is right.
I want to knock her guard down. I mean there's a whole philosophy behind it. Having a virgin suck your dick, that's basic because there's nothing lost.
It's no big deal, right?
Right. But when you deflower a girl, that's it. You did it. You were the one. No one else can ever do it.
Yeah. The way I see it. My outlook on the this situation is. It's like getting fame, you know what I'm saying. It's like, if you died tomorrow, and fifty years from now all the virgins you fucked are gonna remember you because you were their first.
Yep.
They're gonna tell their grand kids. That Telly. He sure was good in the sack!
You thirsty?
Yeah, I feel dehydrated.
You got any money?
Three pennies and a ball of lint.
You down with the boost?
Unzip my pack, yo.
You know like in "The Wonder Twins" they share everything.
The cartoon?
Yeah. "The Wonder Twins". You know. Activate in the form of, a glass of water.
Yeah.
Well, those guys share everything, right?
Right.
And once I saw this episode where they pretended they were each other. Where they lived the other's life for a day. You know those guys share everything, right?
Right.
And it got me thinkin'. How fun it would be to share each other's girl.
Yeah, that would be fun but I don't like any of the girls you go out with. Like that one girl with two teeth and a clit ring.
No, I'm serious man. I'm dead ass. Do you wanna try? We could be like the fuckin Xrated "Wonder Twins"!
Can you do it man?
Can I do it? I just broke her cherry. I imagine I can make her do anything. Bark like a dog, jump through a ring of fire.
That girl you boned last year. Remember?
Man I haven't seen her in forever. What the fuck's she up to?
But that's the thing. Girl's like it slow. They like romance. They like things to be sweet and romantic.
Yep.
I mean I've been with a lot of girls I know.
Yeah me too nigga.
I hate this game.
No. Casper's right. Girls love it. They just act like they don't in front of their friends.
Man, this guy is really good.
He looks like my uncle.
I wanna fuck Darcy.
Who?
Darcy. Benny's little sister.
Oh. You like her?
Yeah. I like her. I've wanted to get with her for a while now.
Darcy?
Yeah. She's so little, so pretty, and innocent.
Yeah. She's only 13.
It's funny. Last weekend at that block party. Remember?
Yeah.
She was handing out those watermelon slices. And I sat down over on the other side, And I watched her.
Yeah.
I watched her eat the watermelon. And all this juice started running down her chin and onto her shirt.
Yeah.
And after about two seconds, I got the biggest hardon.
I'm not joking. I wanted to take my dick out and start jacking right there. At that point and moment, Darcy was like a vision of perfection.
I know what you mean.
At that moment, at that block party, she represented everything holy about a virgin.
She hangs out at Nasa. She promotes for them.
I'm gonna fuck her tonight. I swear to God I'm gonna fuck her.
How are you gonna fuck two virgins in a day? That shits gotta be against the law.
I don't care motha fucka. I'll bet you money she fucks me.
Bet.
You wanna run by the park and see what everybody's doing? Get zooted?
I guess so. I gotta stop off home too.
I don't understand why you do that.
Why I do what?
That.
Why I give pennies?
Yeah. Why you give money.
Did you look at that guy? What the fuck. He had no legs. He had no half his lower body. He's gotta shit out of his ribcage.
That's just it. It's elitist. It's reverse elitism. Because you give money to whoever is the most fucked up. I notice what you do.
What are you talking about?
Whenever you see someone who's really messed up, especially amputees and retards. You give them money. But if it's just a regular bum, you pass them by.
So.
So. These people live on the same streets. It's just that you reserve your money for those people who are massively fucked up. The regular bums aren't poor enough for you, you gotta give it to the bottom of the barrel scum fucks.
So. You never know when you can end up like that.
Right.
I'll tell you why. Because when I was little, I had a fat cousin, cousin Luke. And he used to make fun of the handicapped. And one day he had a bad stomachache. So he drank a bottle of Pepto and his ass blew off.
Shut up.
I'm telling you the truth. And after that, I've always givin' my money to retards. Because that's the reverse of what he did.
So really, it's good luck.
Good luck?
Yeah, good luck. I mean what the fuck. The guy had no legs.
Man, Telly, your little brother is getting big.
Yeah.
Holy shit man, your mom's got good titties.
Shut the fuck up.
How much you gonna take?
I don't know. How much do you want?
About ten. Fifteen is good.
Fifteen for me.
You think Darcy is gonna be at Nasa tonight?
Yeah probably.
Yo, you got any weed around here?
Naw. But we should run by the park and get a dime. Maybe Darcy will be at the park.
Yo. I'm gonna get buff dude.
You are?
Yeah. The other day, some sort of Chinese bitch told me I'd look good with muscles.
Nah.
Why not? You stink.
That shit gives me a rash all under my arms and around my stomach. I like my odor. It's fuckin' natural.
Hurry up man. Let's be out. I wanna go swimmin'.
Hold up man.
How old you?
17.
How many people have you had vaginal intercourse with?
Umm. Altogether?
Yes. Altogether.
Hmm. I'd say eight, maybe nine.
How many times have you gone unprotected?
With four of them, I didn't use any kind of protection. Wait, maybe it was three.
Have you ever had anal intercourse?
Yes.
With how many people?
Umm. Three I believe. But I'm not sure.
Were they wearing condoms?
Uh. Yes. Twice they weren't. Two times they didn't.
Well, girl. You tested negative for all sexually transmitted diseases and infections.
Yes!
You're clean.
Oh my God. I can't tell you how nervous I've been. I couldn't sleep last night.
Now you gotta be careful.
What happened?
Who are you?
His Parole Officer.
Right, I talked to you on the phone. They say it's a torch job, that sound like your boy?
Could be.
Where would we find him?
Hell if I know, crazy son of a bitch said he was thinking of moving to Texas.
Without his car?
What about the owner of the house... ...this John Diebold, any idea where he might be?
No, but I can tell you he's not gonna be too happy about this.
...Diebold?
...That'd be my guess.
Looks like somebody cut off his ring finger.
Well now I'd say that's the least of Mr. Diebold's problems.
You're supposed to call me when you lose your job Early. I stopped by the mirror factory today, you left quite a mess behind there.
Wasn't my fault...
...The police were way out of line when they stopped you from beating that bartender half to death. And no doubt God'll be pickin' on you on Judgement Day...
I ain't got nothing against God. It's the people he let come into the world... lot of them should have been stopped at the door. What are you looking for?
You be at this personnel office, Friday, three o'clock sharp.
What is it?
...Janitor's job.
Oh man... come on, I don't want no janitor job.
Bri'.
Where's Adele?
She wasn't feeling so good.
...Need a hand with those bags?
No, thanks, I can manage.
Ain't you done enough drinking for tonight?
...Brian hurt his foot.
Sometimes... Don't know why it is... I get so hot I can't stand it. I just start sweating like a dog. You ever get like that?
No.
...never?
No, never. Excuse me.
Tell ya Bri., I'm still a little sleepy,... think Adele and me are gonna take us a fiesta.
Siesta.
Early, just think...
Shut your mouth.
He's a killer, Brian... He's fucking insane.
Everybody just shut up!
Darlin' you were 'bout that far from spendin' the night at the morgue. You understand?
He wasn't going to shoot her, you murdering son of a bitch!
Who d'ya think you're foolin'? I know you better than you think...
...You're hurting me...
You were plenty hot.
You sick twisted fuck! You don't know shit about me.
...You know what I mean?
...I know I'd love to smash this bottle right in your fucking face.
Any word from that gallery?
Not yet.
Nervous?
...Apprehensive. Let's not forget these are the people who banned the Mapplethorpe show. Anyway, California's loaded with galleries.
You mean 'Ted Bundy's' finally agreed to leave?
...Soon as he finishes his thesis.
Listen, Eric's been "finishing" his for over three years now.
I'm sorry, but I just can't see you veggin' out in LALA LAND.
Oh, I don't know... I think that once I dye my hair blonde, buy a string bikini and cultivate that tan... I could be veggin' out with the best of 'em... Like fer shurr!
Executing the killer wouldn't bring my mother back.
Thank god!
Okay, now you want to talk about good versus evil? Well then let's start with Adam and Eve and the snake.
Who do I have to blow to get out of here?
A... I gotta go.
Tonight turned out to be pretty interesting.
The party?
The warehouse. I'm not that drunk.
It was definitely the high point of the evening.
Just being there where it really happened. It was different... more visceral.
Mmm... I love it when you talk like that.
I thought you wanted to be a writer.
...I do.
Then you can write anywhere. Let's get out of here, while we still can.
Carrie, come on... we can leave anytime we...
No we can't. We can never leave once you start talking about tenure... and vacation pay... and parking privileges and... oh shit! let's just go to California now, right now, before it's too late.
...just like that?
Just like that. Load up the Lincoln... point it West... stop when we hit the fucking ocean.
Hey. I didn't have the heart to wake you.
Thanks. What are you doing?
Well, I sat down with my tapes and your photographs, which are great by the way... and I started writing.
So how's it going?
...I think it's the best stuff I've done.
...and I think I know why.
Why?
Because I was there. And for a moment that night I understood how she came to pull the trigger.
This mean your finally going to finish your thesis?
Look, fuck the thesis. I think there's a book here. Your photographs and my research, together.
A book on the warehouse murders?
A book on some of the most infamous murderers in America. I want to go to where they lived and where they killed and I want you to photograph it.
What I'm thinking is, we can drop down through Tennessee, across Arkansas and into Texas, from there it's a straight shot into California. "We don't stop... until we hit the fucking ocean."
It's about fucking time, Kessler! I'd just about given up on you.
We don't have enough money, but we'll figure something out.
What did he sound like on the phone?
Real polite. Kept calling me 'sir.'
I like that.
I still think we should have met them first.
Beggars can't be choosers. They were the only ones who answered the ride share note, remember?
Oh, yeah... He had a real thick accent right outta "Deliverance." "Still? Who said anything about a still? Get ya ass up in them woods!"
Funny, very funny.
Jesus... They've probably got five bucks between them. Turn around.
Lighten up...
We could have been in and out of there in less than ten minutes...
Hey, I got some great stuff... it's okay.
You mean because I object to having somebody take off their shoe and scratch their foot while I'm eating I'm prejudiced?
He can't help the way he was raised. I kinda feel sorry for him.
Feel sorry for him? Obviously you didn't get a whiff of that sock?
Bitch, bitch, bitch!
Up yours.
I heard that.
...And all I'm saying is I think we ought to try and get along with them. That's all.
You try, I'm gonna pretend they're with somebody else.
Carrie.
I don't want to talk about it.
All set?
Fuck!
Take your time.
Who said he's my good buddy?
You sure been acting like you were... ...Out whoopin' it up, a drankin' and ever' thang.
Yeah, and you should've seen how terrified she was that he'd find out. He beats her.
How do you know that?
She told me... ...but only when she "deserves" it. Did you know he was in jail?
Stop being so fucking melodramatic! If it was murder he'd still be locked up or on parole, in which case he wouldn't be allowed to leave the state.
Maybe he wasn't allowed to leave! Geezus Brian!
What is it?
Look again!
What's that?
A copy of a tape they found. He recorded everything.
There's more...
I'm finished.
I'm scared. A week ago you would never have even thought to pick up that gun. This afternoon you're out there wielding it around like Clyde fucking Barrow, for Christ's sake! What's with you?
Okay, it was a cheap thrill, it was stupid, I admit it, alright? But let's not blow this. Not now... Let's just get the photos.
I can't believe I agreed to do this.
Oh come on, don't give me that shit... you wanted to take these photos as much as I wanted you too.
Wrong! I was willing to do whatever it took to get you up off your ass and on the way to California... There's a big difference.
Brian I want him out of our car!
Why, what did he do?
Brian get him out of the car. Next gas station either he leaves or I do!
Carrie... stop it.
What the fuck is wrong with you Brian!? If you'll stop taking notes for once and open your eyes... you'll see that he is a homicidal fucking killer. He is... for real!
Shut up Carrie, please... just shut up!
You gotta talk to her. She looks up to you, she'll listen to you.
I tried talking to her at the mine. It didn't work.
Then try again,
Carrie, watch for Early.
What are you going to do?
I'm going to try and lift the end of the piano. If I can... slide your cuffs free.
What about you?
I don't know.
Tight fit.
Best kind.
Uh, we can stop somewhere if you and Adele haven't had time for breakfast, Early.
Well, it's like this, Mr. Kessler.
Brian.
Well, it's like this, Bri'. I don't eat much in the mornin', never have. Maybe a beer once in a while; Lucky Lager's my favorite.
So what do you do Early?
Oh... I do some work up at the Merrick Mirror factory, or I used to...
You gonna talk to the people who did those murders?
That's a good idea. Unfortunately most of them have been executed.
...Too bad.
Can't hurt.
How much do I owe you?
Forget it.
This the book your writing?
It's just a work in progress, kinda rough.
This guy killed a mess of people.
Who?
Henry Lucas.
Henry Lee Lucas. Well he was only convicted of killing eleven but he claimed to have killed over three hundred.
Wonder what all them people done made him so mad?
How did he get away with it for so long anyhow?
He almost always killed strangers. Spent years moving on from one place to another. That made it real hard to track him down.
That bad?
...Then some.
...They never caught that Black Dolya Killer, huh?
Dahlia, no.
Now why is that?
Some people think it's because he never killed again. He just disappeared back into society.
You don't sound too convinced 'bout that?
I always thought it was the work of a serial killer. Anyone who took that much time and care bisecting another human being must have been enjoying it and would have done it again. And again. Until someone stopped him.
That your... "theory", ain't that what they call it?
Yeah.
You wanna hear mine?
Sure.
Ain't you goin' to record it?
By the way, I'm not much of a pool player.
Shit, it ain't hard to play pool. I can teach you everything ya need ta know.
Yeah?
Hell yeah! I'll even spot ya a few points first game.
Wait a minute. You're gonna hustle me?
Nah... how much money have you got?
...Well I probably drunk more than my share, anyway... you go on an' have it.
No, it's all yours. It's on me... for saving my ass back there.
...Well then, that's how many I killed.
If you say so.
Damn right I do.
Ya see what I'm sayin'? Ha!
...Ha.
Hey... Ain't we getting near the next murder site... Bri?
Forget about it, doesn't matter.
Hell it don't... ...Hand me Brian's map there Adele. One day I'm gonna pass some store and see your book in the window. Me and Adele gonna buy a copy for our coffee table.
So tell me... what happened here?
Two brothers, prospectors, lived here. Up until a few years back.
...and?
They picked up hitchhikers... young men... and brought them back here.
You two been busy in here.
What happened to Adele?
Well, let's put it this way. I need me a new woman.
What's your name, boy?
Walter Livesy.
Think. I might just have to kill you Walter. How do you feel about that?
Not so good. You sure you have to?
I don't know. Wish I did.
Where you from Walter?
Vernon, Florida.
Never heard of it, any huntin'?
Turkey mostly.
Turkey's are real smart. Smarter than most people think...
...Mind if I hold that Bible?
What do you need a Bible for?
You think I'm goin' to kill you. Well that'd make me a liar then wouldn't it?
No sir.
Happy birthday Adele.
Early, you are so sweet.
I feel kind of like the wizard of oz, you know when she gets the red shoes.
Well Dorothy, why don't you hand me that chili there.
What's up Adele? Dinner ready?
Almost.
Well... for one thing... They think faster out there, on account of all that warm weather they got; cold weather makes people stupid, that's a fact.
I guess that'd explain why there's so many stupid people around here.
Yeah, and in California you never have to buy fruit 'cause it's all on the trees everywhere you turn... ...and, 'course there ain't no speed limit out there, and all drugs are legal... And I heard your first month's rent is free; state law. I figure 'til we get settled we can just move around month to month...
What'll we do out there?
Well... the very first thing we're gonna do... is get us a couple of six packs of Lucky Lager and climb up on toppa' that famous Hollywood sign and howl at the moon...
You know... I read once... Ain't nothin' on that big old moon 'cept some old golf balls those astronauts left behind.
Bull. That ain't right... Government sends people there all the time, just don't want us to know about it.
Don't be long now, dinner's 'bout ready.
I heard that.
What if they're dangerous?
They ain't dangerous Adele. They're writers.
Did you settle things with Mr. Diebold?
Yeah I left him with the car... We're all squared up now.
Geez, they look kinda weird.
You just smile, let me do all the talking.
How many times you gonna tell me that?
As many times as it takes.
Shush, Adele.
Early, can we stop there... just for a little while.
Can you believe thirty bucks for this room... for what? A lumpy mattress, that crummy TV and a crapper.
Early, sing me a song.
Early, what're you doin'?
Go back to the car and keep Brian there. I don't want him in here... Do it Adele... Now!
What the hell is this stuff?
It's Chinese food. It was the only place open. You said you was starving, you'd eat anyth...
Yeah but, what is it?
I don't know, they didn't speak too good English.
...thank you.
Thank you for what? What are you thanking me for Adele?
...I don't know.
Well Adele... it was for... ...saving your fucking life back there!
What's wrong with her?
She had a dream that somethin' like this was gonna happen.
Nobody wants to hurt you Peaches!
Early! Stop!!
Oh, n'jus what in hell you crying 'bout? I'm the one got hit.
I changed my mind, Early. I'm not gonna climb up that Hollywood sign with you... I decided. I think your mean, and you hurt people.
Hi, I'm Adele.
Carrie.
...Pardon?
...I said, I like your hair.
...Thank you.
One night we figured out how much bad luck he must have comin' from all them mirrors he broke... Four hundred and ninety four years to work it all off... After he dies, he'll have to keep coming back to earth over and over and over...
Karma.
What?
Karma... You know, if you do something bad to somebody fate will pay you back by something bad happening to you.
That French ain't it?
Are you takin' the pictures?
...Yeah.
Is it hard to learn?
Not really.
You wouldn't have any color film, would ya?
...Yeah, sure.
You dropped this.
Early Grayce if this ain't your lucky day.
Early don't think women should smoke or curse or drink liquor.
So you don't do any of those things.
Better not, or Early'd whip me.
He whips you?
...Hey you're good. Thought you said you never played before?
I haven't... I'm a fast learner.
I told you how Early feels 'bout a woman drinking.
How'd you meet Early?
You know I can fix that haircut for you, if you want?
You can?
I'm cool.
Could I try that?
What's this?
It's a portfolio of my work.
Your pictures. Can I see 'em?
Sure.
You took this picture?
Took 'em all.
That's me.
No it is not!
Hold still.
Sorry. Boy I'll tell ya, if Early found a picture of me like that I'd be black and blue for a week.
You shouldn't let him do that to you...
Do what?
Adele... are you serious?
You think Early's bad to me, don't you?
Yeah.
My momma's a beautician. Guess that's where I get it from. She wouldn't hear of my moving in with Early... on account of his just getting out of jail and all. Ain't seen her in nearly a year now. I wish she'd call me, just once.
What's Early been in jail for?
Carryin' a gun.
...Anything else?
An' resistin' arrest... At least that's what the Police said.
Jeez... Adele!
The police are after him, he's a murderer!
...That's not true.
What?
That's not true!
...I wouldn't lie to you, Adele. . . I saw him kill that man.
Early didn't kill nobody, he wouldn't do that. I don't know why you're saying those things. You ain't my friend.
No.
Me neither. How 'bout you Carrie?
You lose!
I suppose anything's possible.
...You can forget about 'em forever and then look at 'em and they're doin' even better than before.
Adele... we gotta do something before Early kills someone else.
...There ain't nothin' can kill 'em. They can live for two even three hundred years.
Adele for god sake please lis...
There ain't nothing we could do. Once Early sets his mind on somethin', well thats the end of that.
Obviously, we'll compensate you for your medical expenses.
Are you looking for any other compensation?
You're doing an amazing and selfless thing for us.
Vanessa has wanted a baby since we got married.
I want to be a mommy so badly!
You guys are playing music?
Juno just wanted a closer look at Kimber here.
What do you think? Custard or Cheesecake?
They're yellow.
Well, I wanted to pick something genderneutral for now. Once we get the baby, God willing, we can create a more decisive palette.
Why do people think yellow is gender neutral? I don't know one man with a yellow bedroom.
I think I'm leaning toward Custard in this light. I don't know. I should paint a small area...
Or you could just wait a couple months. It's not like the baby's going to storm in here any second and demand dessertcolored walls.
What to Expect says that readying the baby's room is an important process for women. It's called "nesting."
Nesting, huh? Are you planning to build the crib out of twigs and saliva?
You should read the book. I even flagged the "daddy chapters" for you.
I just think it's too early to paint. That's my opinion.
And I disagree.
That wall is going to need something. Maybe we could put our first family picture there.
Hm.
Can you see it?
Juno, what's the matter?
She's hormonal. Right, June? It's just part of the whole process.
What did you do?
I didn't do anything... I just... I've just been thinking.
What?
Just thinking if this is really the right thing for us.
What are you referring to?
I've been just wondering if we're, you know, ready.
Of course we're ready. We've taken all the classes. The nursery. The books 
I know we're prepared. I just don't know if... I'm ready.
Why don't we let Juno go home and we can discuss this later on, okay?
It all just happened so fast. We put that ad in the paper. I thought it would take months if, you know, ever and then  boom  Two weeks later, she's in our living room.
She answered our prayers.
Ever since, it's just been like a ticking clock.
What would be a good time for you?
I don't know. There's just things I still want to do.
Like what? Be a rock star?
Don't mock me.
I called Gerta Rauss. She says she can represent both of us. They call it "collaborative divorce." It's apparently all the rage right now. And it's easy because we don't have children.
No, it's fine. Thanks for making the call, I guess.
We're actually, finally doing this?
Looks like it, yeah.
Have you found a place to stay?
Yeah, downtown.
A hotel?
It's a loft.
Aren't you the cool guy?
Hello. Thank you for having me and my irresponsible child over to your home.
Oh no. Thank you. Come on in.
You don't say.
Well, haven't you ever felt like you were born to do something?
Yes. Heating and air conditioning.
Well, I was born to be a mother. Some of us are.
So. What's that thing?
A Pilates machine?
What do you make with that?
You don't make anything. It's for exercising.
Yoyoyiggityyo.
I am a suicide risk.
Is this Juno?
No it's Morgan Freeman. Got any bones that need collecting?
Only the one in my pants.
Dude, I'm pregnant.
Maybe it's just a food baby. Did you have a big lunch?
It's not a food baby. I took three pregnancy tests today. I am definitely up the spout.
How did you even generate enough pee for three pregnancy tests?
I drank like ten tons of Sunny Delight. Anyway, yeah. I'm pregnant. And you're shockingly cavalier.
Is this for real? Like for real, for real?
Unfortunately, yes.
Oh my God! Oh shit! Phuket Thailand!
That's the kind of emotion I was looking for in the first take.
Well, are you going to go to Havenbrooke or Women Now for the abortion? You need a note from your parents for Havenbrooke.
I know. Women Now, I guess. The commercial says they help women now.
Want me to call for you? I called for Becky last year.
Eh, I'll call them myself. But I do need your help with something very urgent.
Heavy lifting can only help you at this point.
That is sick, man.
So, you were bored? Is that how this blessed miracle came to be?
Nah, it was a premeditated act. The sex, I mean, not getting pregnant.
When did you decide you were going to do Bleeker?
Like, a year ago, in Spanish class.
Aha! You love him.
It's extremely complicated, and I'd rather not talk about it in my fragile state.
So, what was it like humping Bleeker's bony bod?
It was magnificent, man!
What are you doing here, dumbass? I thought I was supposed to pick you up at four.
I couldn't do it, Leah! It smelled like a dentist in there. They had these really horrible magazines, with, like, spritz cookie recipes and bad fiction and water stains, like someone read them in the tub. And the receptionist tried to give me these weird condoms that looked like grape suckers, and she told me about her boyfriend's pie balls, and SuChin Kuah was there, and she told me the baby had fingernails. Fingernails!
Oh, gruesome. I wonder if the baby's claws could scratch your vag on the way out?
I'm staying pregnant, Le.
Keep your voice down dude, my mom's around here somewhere. She doesn't know we're sexually active.
What does that even mean? Anyway, I got to thinking on the way over. I was thinking maybe I could give the baby to somebody who actually likes that kind of thing. You know, like a woman with a bum ovary or something. Or some nice lesbos.
But then you'll get huge. Your chest is going to milktate. And you have to tell everyone you're pregnant.
I know. Maybe they'll canonize me for being so selfless.
Maybe they'll totally shit and be super mad at you and not let you graduate or go to Cabo San Lucas for spring break.
Bleeker and I were going to go to Gettysburg for spring break.
Well, maybe you could look at one of those adoption ads. I see them all the time in the Penny Saver.
There are ads? For parents?
Oh yeah! "Desperately Seeking Spawn." They're right by the ads for like, iguanas and terriers and used fitness equipment. It's totally legit.
Come on, Leah. I can't scope out wannabe parents in the Penny Saver! That's tacky. That's like buying clothes at the Pump n' Munch.
The Penny Saver sucks.
Yeah, but it sucks for free.
Look at this one "Wholesome, spiritually wealthy couple have found true love with each other." "All that's missing is your bastard."
There's a guy in here who's giving away a piano. Free for the hauling! We should put it in Bleeker's yard.
You're not listening to me.
No, I heard you. I just can't give the baby to people who describe themselves as "wholesome." I'm looking for something a little edgier.
What did you have in mind, a family of disturbed loners who are into gunplay and incest?
I was thinking a graphic designer, midthirties, and his cool Asian wife who dresses awesome and plays bass. But I'm trying to not be too particular.
All right, how about this one? "Healthy, educated couple seeking infant to join our family of five. You will be compensated. Help us complete the circle of love."
Yeesh, they sound like a cult. Besides, they're greedy bitches. They already have three kids!
Hey, Juno. Juno! Look at this one.
Best to just tell them, man. Rip off the BandAid and let it bleed.
I'm pregnant.
Check out Baby BigHead. That kid is scary!
Hey, I'm a sacred vessel. All you've got in your belly is Taco Bell!
Touche.
It is really weird looking. It's like it's not even real. I can't believe there are saps who actually cry at these things.
Aw, please Junebug?
No way. No, I definitely don't want to know.
How do you know I'm so poisonous? Like, what if the adoptive parents turn out to be evil molesters?
Or stage parents!
Yum. This pretzel tastes like a friggin' donut!
Share the love, Tits!
Hly shht!
What?
That's her. That's Vanessa Loring.
Of the Penny Saver Lorings?
No way! She's pretty.
You sound shocked or something.
I just thought she'd look really old in real life.
She's gonna steal that kid for her collection.
Right, seriously.
I want a huge cookie. And like, a lamb kebob. Simultaneously.
God, Spermy. Must you always feed?
God, you're getting huge. How many months has it been now?
Almost eight. You wouldn't believe how weird I look naked.
I wish my funbags would get bigger.
Trust me, you don't. I actually have to wear a bra now. And I have to rub this nasty cocoa butter stuff all over myself or my skin could get stretched too far and explode.
Hot!
God, why is everyone always staring at me?
Well, you are kind of... convex.
Wow, someone's been actually doing her geometry homework for once!
I don't have a choice. Keith's been grading me really hard lately.
Please do not refer to Mr. Conyers as "Keith," okay? My barf reflex is already heightened these days.
Keith's hot.
Eww, he's all beardy!
Did you hear Bleek is going to prom with Katrina De Voort?
Katrina? Pfft, no way. He doesn't like Katrina. It must be a pity date.
He asked her. I heard they were going to Benihana, then the prom, then to Vijay's parents' cabin.
Bleeker told me Katrina's whole house reeks of soup!
Oh, it totally does. I was there for her birthday about four years ago and it was like Lipton Landing. But you know, boys have endured worse things for nookie.
There's no way in hell they're having sex or even holding hands.
I wouldn't be so sure about that. He did it with you. He's a man now.
Yeah, well, Bleek trusted me. We're best friends.
Are you jealous? I thought you said you didn't care what he did.
I'm not jealous, and I don't care. I just know he doesn't like Katrina and I don't think he should toy with her emotions like that. She seems so nice and all.
Okay Juno, I'm really convinced.
Prom is for wenises, anyway. Once you're old enough to go, it's not cool anymore.
Well, well. If it isn't MacGuff the Crime Dog! Back for another test?
I think the last one was defective. The plus sign looked more like a division sign.
Maybe you're having twins. Maybe your little boyfriend's got mutant sperms and he knocked you up twice!
Silencio! I just drank my weight in Sunny D. and I have to go, pronto.
Well, you know where the lavatory is. You pay for that pee stick when you're done! Don't think it's yours just because you've marked it with your urine!
Jesus, I didn't say it was.
Well, it's not. You're not a lion in a pride! These kids, acting like lions with their unplanned pregnancies and their Sunny Delights.
So what's the prognosis, Fertile Myrtle? Minus or plus?
I don't know. It's not... seasoned yet. Wait. Huh. Yeah, there's that pink plus sign again. God, it's unholy.
You should have seen this octopus furnace. I had to get out my Hazmat suit just to get up in there...
My dad used to be in the Army, but now he's just your average HVAC specialist. He and my mom got divorced when I was five. She lives on a Havasu reservation in Arizona...
So Juno, how did your maneuver go last night?
Which maneuver, sir? The one in which I moved an entire living room set from one lawn to another, or the one in which I cleared a sixtyfour ounce blue slushie in ten minutes?
Do you need a large sum of money? Legal counsel?
No, no, I'm definitely not asking for anything. Except maybe mercy. Like, it would be really great if nobody hit me.
What have you done, Junebug? Did you hit someone with the Previa?
They say they're going to pay my medical expenses and everything. I promise this will all be resolved in thirtyodd weeks, and we can pretend it never happened.
You're pregnant?
I'm so sorry, you guys. If it's any consolation, I have heartburn that's like, radiating down to my kneecaps and I haven't gone number two since Wednesday. Morning!
Who is the kid?
The baby? I don't know anything about it yet. I only know it's got fingernails, allegedly.
What?
Paulie Bleeker? I didn't know he had it in him!
Okay, this is no laughing matter.
No, it's not. Paulie is virile, by the way. He was very good in... chair.
Did you say you were thinking about adoption?
Yeah, well, there's this couple who've been trying to have a baby for five years.
Damn skippy, you're not! You don't even remember to give Liberty Bell her breathing meds.
Once! And she didn't die, if you recall!
I thought you were the kind of girl who knew when to say when.
I have no idea what kind of girl I am.
She's joking. Junebug has a wonderful sense of humor, which is just one of her many genetic gifts.
I also have good teeth. No cavities. We finally got fluoridated water in Dancing Elk.
Excuse me?
Well, no... I'm not going to sell the baby. I just want it to grow up with people who are ready to love it and be parents. I'm in high school, dude. I'm illequipped.
Hi Dad.
Hey, big puffy version of Junebug. Where have you been?
Dealing with stuff way beyond my maturity level. Where is everyone?
Bren took Liberty Bell to her tot ice skating class.
Tot ice skating? Tots can't ice skate. Liberty Bell's still getting the hang of stairs.
No, but you know Bren. She dreams big.
Yeah, she does.
You look a little morose, honey. What's eating you?
I'm losing my faith in humanity.
Think you can narrow it down for me.
I guess I wonder sometimes if people ever stay together for good.
You mean like couples?
Yeah, like people in love.
Are you having boy trouble? I gotta be honest; I don't much approve of you dating in your condition, 'cause... well, that's kind of messed up.
Dad, no!
Well, it's kind of skanky. Isn't that what you girls call it? Skanky? Skeevy?
Please stop now.
Tore up from the floor up?
Dad, it's not about that. I just need to know that it's possible for two people to stay happy together forever. Or at least for a few years.
It's not easy, that's for sure. Now, I may not have the best track record in the world, but I have been with your stepmother for ten years now, and I'm proud to say that we're very happy.
I sort of already have.
Well, of course. Your old DAD! You know I'll always be there to love and support you, no matter what kind of pickle you're in.
What?!
Either I just pissed my pants or...
Or...
Thundercats are go!
Hi. I'm here for the big show?
Your name, please?
Juno MacGuff.
Would you like some free condoms? They're boysenberry.
No thank you. I'm off sex.
My partner uses these every time we have intercourse. They make his balls smell like pie.
Congrats.
Hi! I'm Vanessa. You must be Juno and Mr. MacGuff. I'm Vanessa.
Vanessa, right?
Can I take your coats?
Sure.
Wicked pic in the Penny Saver, by the way. Super classy. Not like those other people with the fake woods in the background. Like I'm really going to fall for that, you know?
You found us in the Penny Saver?
I'll get drinks. What would everyone like? I've got Pellegrino, Vitamin Water...
A Maker's Mark, please. Up.
Oh, that's marvelous. So you're almost into your second trimester, then?
Yeah, apparently. I'm having it on May 4.
The tough part's almost over for you. I mean, my girlfriends always tell me the first couple months are the hardest.
Yeah, but I hardly noticed it. I'm more worried about the part where I have to start wearing jeans with an elastic panel in the front.
I think pregnancy is beautiful.
Well, you're lucky it's not you.
Well, shall we start looking over the paperwork? Gerta has already drafted some preliminary documents.
Can I use the facilities first? Being pregnant makes you pee like Seabiscuit.
Sure. The powder room down here is being retiled, but you can use the master bath upstairs. Go up, then turn left and on your right...
Room with a toilet, got it.
Oh. Sure. Of course you'd want to know how your kid is cooking.
So, then, you really think you're going to go ahead with this?
I'm going to say I'm 104% sure.
Oh really?
Look, if I could give it to you now, I would. But it probably looks like a Sea Monkey at this point, so I think we should leave it in there for a while until it gets cuter, you know?
Juno! God, you startled me. What are you doing here? What's wrong?
Nothing...
Then what's going on?
I went to the doctor today.
Is the baby okay?
Sure. It's the right size and everything. I even saw its phalanges today! Check this...
What...
This is the baby. Your baby.
Oh my God...
Doesn't it look like it's waving? It's kind of like it's saying "Hi, Vanessa. Will you be my mommy?"
Yeah. Yeah, it kind of does.
Oh it's just some stuff I picked up. For, you know, the baby. Babies need a lot of things. I want everything to be just right.
I thought people got all that stuff at baby showers. When my stepmom had my sister I remember she got about a million presents. They were all lame though, so I wasn't jealous.
Um, I think people are kind of unsure about the situation because it's not, you know, set in stone.
What do you mean? You mean... Do you think I'm going to flake out on you?
No, no, I don't think that, Juno. It's just that, we went through a situation before where it didn't work out.
Right. Well, Juno, your parents must be wondering where you are. You might want to head home.
Naah. I'm already pregnant, so they figure nothing worse could happen to me. I gotta bounce anyway. It was nice seeing you guys again.
Well hi Vanessa! What brings you to the mall today?
Just, you know, shopping with my girlfriends.
No...
Please excuse Leah. She's mentally challenged.
Oh, okay. So... how are you feeling?
Happy? Oh, you mean like, physically. I'm good. Look, I have a snooze button now!
Um... Juno, can I  Can I touch it?
Are you kidding? Everyone at school is always grabbing at my belly. I'm like a legend. They call me the Cautionary Whale.
Oh my God  It moved! I felt it!
Elbow.
Wow! It's magical.
Juno? What's going on?
Nothing.
Mark? Why is Juno crying?
I'm not crying. I'm allergic to fine home furnishings. See you later.
Uh, hi SuChin.
Oh, hi Juno. How are you?
Good. I'm good. Did you finish that paper for Worth's class yet?
No, not yet. I tried to work on it a little last night, but I'm having trouble concentrating.
You should try Adderall.
No thanks. I'm off pills.
Wise move. I know this girl who had a huge crazy freakout because she took too many behavioral meds at once. She took off her clothes and jumped into the fountain at Ridgedale Mall and she was like, "Blaaaaah! I'm a kraken from the sea!"
I heard that was you.
Well, it was nice seeing you.
Juno! Your baby probably has a beating heart, you know. It can feel pain. And it has fingernails.
Really? Fingernails?
This is our attorney, Gerta Rauss.
Geeeerta Rauuuss!
No.
Cool. Well, let's sit down and get to know each other a bit.
So, let's discuss how we're gonna do this... thing.
Well, I just have the baby and give it to you, right?
Whoah. I don't want to see pictures. I don't need to be notified of anything. Can't we just kick it old school? I could just put the baby in a basket and send it your way. You know, like Moses in the reeds.
Technically, that would be kickin' it Old Testament.
Whoops! Yikes, I didn't expect to see you up here.
Sorry. I was just getting something.
Did your wife send you up here to spy on me?
What? No! Do we come off like paranoid yuppies or something?
Well, you don't just invite a random pregnant teenager into your house and leave her unsupervised. I could be a total klepto, for all you know.
I don't get a klepto vibe from you. Evil genius? Maybe. Arsonist? Wouldn't rule it out.
I did steal a squirt of perfume. What do you think? It's Clinique Happy.
Am I supposed to feel happy now?
You should be happy, Holmes. I'm giving you and Vanessa the gift of life. Sweet, screaming, pooping life! And you don't even have to be there when the baby comes out of me all covered in...
Viscera?
Blood and guts.
We'd better get back downstairs ASAP.
Oh. That's, uh, my room. Vanessa lets me have a room for all my old stuff.
Wow, you get a whole room in your own house? She's got you on a long leash there, Mark.
Shut up.
It's beautiful. I've always liked Gibson better than Fender.
What do you play?
I rock a Harmony.
Oh.
What? I'm a pawn shop rocker.
Sorry. I swear I'm not a gear snob.
What is that, Mahogany? What happens if you crack the neck?
Tell me about it. I used to play in a really tight band back when I lived in Chicago, and one night we opened for the Melvins... do you know who the Melvins are?
Yeah.
Well, we were playing with them and I busted this guitar onstage. It cost me $800 and a dime bag just to have it fixed.
When was this, like '96?
'93. I'm telling you that was the best time for rock and roll.
Nuhuh, 1977! Punk Volume 1. You weren't there, so you can't understand the magic.
You weren't even alive!
Your guitar is named Kimber?
Yeah.
That's all right. My axe is named Roosevelt. After Franklin, not Ted. Franklin was the hot one with the polio.
Juno? Wow, I didn't expect to see you here.
I've got something really cool to show you guys. Is Vanessa here?
No, she's working late tonight. She's trying to accrue some extra time off for when, you know...
Right. I hear they can be kind of a timesuck.
Come on in. You wanna Ginseng Cooler?
Sure. What is it with you rich people and your herbinfused juices?
I don't know. Something to do with the fourpacks... ...They're not bad.
Why aren't you at work?
I mostly work from home. I'm a composer.
No shit. Like Johannes Brahms?
No, more commercial stuff.
Like what?
Commercials.
Oh.
Have you seen those ads for Titanium Power men's deodorant?
Titanium Power! Get more snatch by the batch!
I wrote that.
You're kind of a sellout, aren't you? What would the Melvins say?
They'd say you came a long way out here not knowing if anyone would be home.
Behold, good sir! The very first photo of your future child.
You're kidding!
I think it kind of looks like my friend, Paulie.
Oh, is he bald and amorphous?
No, he's the dad.
Can you tell if it's a boy or a girl?
The doctor can tell, but I decided not to know. I want it to be a big surprise.
Well, it can really only go two ways.
That's what you think. I drink tons of booze so you might get one of those scary neuterbabies that's born without junk.
Junk?
You know... it's parts...
I know what junk is.
Yeah?
We definitely want it to have junk.
Well don't worry about it. My stepmom is forcing me to eat really healthy. She won't even let me stand in front of the microwave or eat red M&Ms. Hope you're ready.
What is it?
It's only my favorite song. It's Sonic Youth doing "Superstar" by the Carpenters.
I've heard the Carpenters before. Chick drummer and freaky dude. Not unlike the White Stripes.
You haven't heard the Carpenters like this. Listen.
Don't you remember you told me you loved me, baby...
Hey, I like this.
This album is all Carpenters covers by altrock bands. It's called If I Were a Carpenter. It is God. I'll rip a copy for you before you leave.
You don't have to do that.
It's the least I can do. What did you say your favorite band was?
I didn't. But it's a threeway tie between the Stooges, Patti Smith and the Runaways.
Yeah, I definitely need to make you some CDs. At least while my kid is hanging out in there.
The Wizard of Gore?
Oh yeah. It's Herschel Gordon Lewis. He's the ultimate master of horror.
Please. Dario Argento is the ultimate master of horror.
Argento's good, but Lewis is completely demented. We're talking buckets of goo. Red corn syrup everywhere. And fake brains up the yinyang.
Frankly, this looks kind of stupid.
This is even better than Suspiria. You've got decent taste in slasher movies, Mark.
Here's to dovetailing interests.
So, have you and Vanessa thought of a name for the baby yet?
Well, sort of. Vanessa likes Madison for a girl.
Madison? Isn't that kind of... I don't know, gay?
God, pretentious much? I guess everyone should have a mysterious name like Juno, huh?
My dad went through this phase where he was obsessed with Greek and Roman mythology. He named me after Zeus's wife. I mean, Zeus had other lays, but I'm pretty sure Juno was his only wife. She was supposed to be really beautiful but really mean. Like Diana Ross.
That suits you.
Uh, thanks.
You know, not many teenage girls in your situation would actually go through with this.
I weighed my options. But after all this, I'm glad I didn't, you know, get rid of it. I want to have it. For you guys.
You're something else.
Vanessa. Shit, you better get out of here.
Why? What the big deal?
Nothing. She just hates when I sit around watching movies and 'not contributing.'
I'll handle this. I'm really good at diffusing momtype rage.
Juno was nice enough to bring this by for us.
I came over as soon as I got that cold ultrasound goo off my pelvis. My stepmom verbally abused the ultrasound tech so we were escorted off the premises.
Hey, what kind of swag did you score?
Yeah. Mall madness, huh?
I doubt anyone's throwing us a shower.
Why?
Cold feet.
You should have gone to China. I heard they give away babies like free iPods. They shoot 'em out of those Tshirt guns at sports events.
Hello?
So, I've been spending a lot of time listening to that weird CD you made me.
Oh really? What's the verdict?
I sort of like it. I mean, it's cute.
Cute?
Well, when you're used to the raw power of Iggy and the Stooges, everything else sounds kind of precious by comparison.
I imagine you have a collection of punk chestnuts to prove your point.
Consider it your musical education.
I'm dying to see what you've got to teach me.
Okay, stop surfing porn and get back to work. Just wanted to say hi.
Go learn something.
Wow. That shirt is working hard.
Is Vanessa here?
Nope. We're safe.
Cool.
Come on, I have something for you.
Oh, Mark! Is this the baby's room? It's beautiful!
Hilarious. No, I just keep all of my old comics down here, and I want to show you one of them.
Oh God, you're one of those guys...
You're gonna like this, I promise.
"Most Fruitful Yuki"? What is... Oh my god, she's a pregnant superhero!
Isn't that great? I got it when I was in Japan with my band. She reminds me of you.
Wow, I actually feel like less of a fat dork now.
Most Fruitful Yuki is bad ass, man. You should be proud to be the same condition.
What?
I actually know this one.
You do?
Yeah, this song's older than me, if you can believe that. I danced to it at my senior prom.
That's almost interesting, Mark. Who did you dance with?
Her name was Cynthia Vogel and she was a good dance partner. Even let me put my hands on her butt.
Oh man, I can just picture you slow dancing like a dork!
Oh, okay. Like this.
You've never been to a dance, have you?
Only squares and nerds go to dances.
What are you?
I don't know.
I'm leaving Vanessa.
What?
It's just not working out, but I'm getting my own place in the city... and I've got it all planned out. It's something I've wanted to do for a long time...
No.
No?
No. No, you definitely cannot do that, Mark. That's a big, fat sack of no!
What's the matter?
This isn't what we agreed on. You guys have to take care of... this! You are the chosen custodians of the bigass bump!
But I thought you'd be cool if...
I want you guys to adopt the Buglet. I wanted everything to be perfect. Not shitty and broken like everyone else's family. Listen, once I have the baby, Vanessa is going to finally be happy, and everything will be all right. Believe me on this one!
A baby is not going to fix everything. Besides, I don't know if I'm ready to be a father.
But you're old!
I... How do you think of me, Juno? Why are you here?
I don't know. I just liked being your friend. I sort of liked becoming furniture in your weird life.
This... ...this is what my life has become. Stuff in boxes. Stuff underground. Is that so appealing to you?
Yeah, I guess... Is this my fault? Is Vanessa mad at you because of me?
That's not the point. We're just not in love anymore.
Yeah, but didn't you love Vanessa when you married her? If you love someone once, you can love them again, I know it. My friend Leah has gone out with the same guy, like, four times. You're just not trying.
Please don't get a divorce! God, Mark, just do me a solid and stay with your wife.
God, you're so young.
Not really. I'm sixteen. I'm old enough to tell when people are acting like total aholes!
Amanda, I told you to go to the infirmary and lie down. You never listen.
No Josh, I don't take orders. Not from you and not from any man.
You know, you've been acting like this ever since I went up to see my brother at Mankato. I told you, nothing happened!
Something happened. Because your eyes? Are very cold? They're very cold, Josh. They're cold, lying eyes.
What? My eyes are not lying!
Yes they are, Josh. Since Mankato, they have been lying eyes.
Good. Call me when you're OFF the rag.
Fine. Call me when you learn how to love just one person and not cheat at your brother's college just because you had four Smirnoff Ices and a bottle of Snow Peak Peach flavored Boone's!
Good, I'll be sure to do that, Amanda. I'll make a note of it.
So, Juno. First off, how far along are you?
I'm a junior.
No, I mean in your pregnancy.
Oh. Uh, my stepmom took me to the doctor yesterday and they said I was twelve weeks.
Yeah. Yeah! The way people used to do it. Quick and dirty, like ripping off a BandAid.
Well, then we agree a traditional closed adoption would be best for all involved, then?
Shit, yeah. Close it up.
Juno? Did you happen to barf in my urn? Mac, you know that nice urn by the front door, the one I got up in Stillwater? I found some weird blue shit, I mean stuff, gunk, in there this morning.
I would never barf in your urn, Brenda. Maybe L.B. did it.
I have no idea how to spit this out.
Hon, did you get expelled?
No. The school would probably contact you in the event of my expulsion.
Well, I was just asking. It seemed plausible.
Oh, God...
But I'm going to give it up for adoption. I already found the perfect people.
But they have a real lawyer and everything. I'm going to meet with them next weekend.
Junebug, that is a tough, tough thing to do. Probably tougher than you can understand right now.
Well, I'm not ready to be a mom.
No.
Well, you're a brave young lady. You're made of stronger stuff than I thought. You're a little Viking!
Cool it.
First things first, we have to get you healthy. You need prenatal vitamins. Incidentally, they'll do incredible things for your nails, so that's a plus. Oh, and we need to schedule a doctor's appointment. Find out where you're going to deliver.
The term "deliver" is so weird. Can we not say "deliver"?
Where the hell have you been, Junebug?
I drove to St. Cloud to show Mark and Vanessa the ultrasound. And I wound up staying for a couple of hours.
A couple of hours? Why are you going up there in the first place?
They said they wanted to know about this stuff. They said to keep them updated, so I did!
You could have sent it to them. Why would you drive an hour out to East Jesus, Nowhere?
I don't know, I just did. And while we were waiting for Vanessa, Mark and I watched The Wizard of Gore and he burned me some CDs of weird music. He's kind of cool.
That was a mistake, Juno. Mark is a married stranger. You overstepped a boundary.
Listen, Brenduhhh, I think you're the one overstepping boundaries. You're acting like you're the one who has to go through this and get huge and push a baby out of your vag for someone else. Besides, who cares if he's married? I can have friends who are married.
It doesn't work that way, kiddo. You don't know squat about the dynamics of marriage.
You don't know anything about me!
I know enough.
We don't even have a dog!
Yeah, because you're allergic to their saliva. I've made a lot of sacrifices for you, Juno. And in a couple years you're going to move out  and I'm getting Weimaraners.
Wow, dream big!
Oh, go fly a kite.
Ow, ow, fuckityow. Bren, when do I get that Spinal Tap thing?
It's called a spinal block, and you can't have it yet, honey. The doctor said you're not dilated enough.
You mean I have to wait for it to get even worse? Why can't they just give it to me now?
Well, honey, doctors are sadists who like to play God and watch lesser people scream.
Shit. Hey, can we give my kid the damn spinal tap already?
It really didn't hurt that bad having him.
Nails? Really?
No, I mean the father! Who's the father, Juno?
Just tell it to me straight, Bren. Do you think this is my fault? Her mother's fault?
I think kids get bored and have intercourse. And I think Junebug was a dummy about it. But we have to move on from here and help her figure it out.
I'm not ready to be a PopPop.
You're not going to be a PopPop. And Juno's not going to be a ma. Somebody else is going to find a precious blessing from Jesus in this garbage dump of a situation. I friggin' hope.
Did you see it coming when she sat us down here?
Oh God yeah. But I was hoping she was expelled or into hard drugs.
That was my first instinct too. Or D.W.I. Anything but this. And I'm going to punch that Bleeker kid in the weiner the next time I see him.
Oh Mac, no! He's a sweet kid. You know it wasn't his idea.
What? I'm not made of stone.
Well, there we have it. Would you like to know the sex?
Wait, what's that supposed to mean?
I just see a lot of teenage mothers come through here. It's obviously a poisonous environment for a baby to be raised in.
They could be utterly negligent. Maybe they'll do a far shittier job of raising a kid than my dumbass stepdaughter ever would. Have you considered that?
No... I guess not.
What is your job title, exactly?
Excuse me?
I said, whatisyourjobtitle, Missy?
I'm an ultrasound technician, ma'am.
Well I'm a nail technician, and I think we both ought to stick to what we know.
What are you talking about?
You think you're special because you get to play Picture Pages up there?
Hey man.
Oh, hey Vijay.
Did you hear Juno MacGuff is pregnant?
Yup.
Just like our moms and teachers!
Yup.
Did you hear it's yours?
Yup.
What a trip, man.
I don't really know anything about it.
You should grow a moustache. You're a real man now.
I can't grow a moustache. It never comes in evenly.
Me neither. But I'm going to stop wearing underpants in order to raise my sperm count. See you.
Hey Bleek.
Hey, cool tiger. Looks proud.
Yeah, I swiped it from Ms. Rancick.
Cool.
Your shorts are looking especially gold today.
My mom uses colorsafe bleach.
Go Carole. So, guess what?
I don't know...
I'm pregnant.
When I see them all running like that, with their things bouncing around in their shorts, I always picture them naked, even if I don't want to. I have intrusive thoughts all the time.
I'm supposed to be running.
I know.
So, what do you think we should do?
I thought I might, you know, nip it in the bud before it gets worse. Because I heard in health class that pregnancy often results in an infant.
Yeah, typically. That's what happens when our moms and teachers get pregnant.
So that's cool with you, then?
Yeah, wizard, I guess. I mean do what you think is right.
I'm real sorry I had sex with you. I know it wasn't your idea.
Whose idea was it?
I'll see you at school, O.K.?
Well! Nothing like experimenting.
I did the prep questions for this lab last night. You can copy my answers if you need to.
Oh, I couldn't copy your work.
But you copy my work every week.
Oh yeah. I'm kind of a deadbeat lab partner, huh?
I don't mind. You definitely bring something to the table.
Charisma?
Or something.
Hey Juno... A couple of us are going to the cineplex after school to donut that movie with the guy with eighteen kids.
Sorry, Bleek... Going for my ultrasound. Gotta note and everything.
Okay, cool.
I'll try to drop by later.
What's up?
I just wanted to come over. You know, say hi. I miss hanging out with you on school nights.
I miss it too.
So, it looks like you're getting pregnanter these days.
Yeah. Um, I hooked up a whole private adoption thing. These married people in Saint Cloud are going to be the parents.
Really? What are they like?
The guy is super cool! His name is Mark and he's into old horror movies and he plays guitar. I actually hung out with him today.
Is that normal?
I asked my dad and Bren not to narc us out to your folks, so we should be safe.
Oh. That's a relief.
I'm going to really start looking like a dork soon. Will you still think I'm cute if I'm huge?
I always think you're cute. I think you're beautiful.
Jesus, Bleek.
Well, I do.
Hey Junebug, when all this is over we should get the band back together again.
Yeah. Sure. Once Tino gets a new drumhead we should be good to go.
We could get back together too.
Were we together?
Well, we were once. You know, that time.
What about Katrina De Voort? You could go out with Katrina De Voort.
I don't like Katrina.
I totally heard you did.
I don't. Katrina smells like soup. Her whole house smells of soup.
Are you honestly and truly going to prom with Katrina De Voort?
Um, hi?
Leah just told me you were going with her.
Yeah, I did ask her if she wanted to go. A bunch of us from the team are going to Benihana, then the prom, then Vijay's parents' cabin.
We're getting a stretch limo.
Your mom must be really glad you're not taking me.
You're mad. Why are you mad?
I'm not mad. I'm in a fucking great mood. Despite the fact that I'm trapped in a fat suit I can't take off, despite the fact that everyone is making fun of me behind my back, despite the fact that your little girlfriend gave me the stinkeye in art class yesterday...
Katrina's not my girlfriend! And I doubt she was actually giving you the stinkeye. She just looks like that all the time.
You're being really immature.
What?
That's not how our thing works! I hurl the accusations and you talk me down, remember?
Not this time. You don't have any reason to be mad at me. You broke my heart. I should be royally ticked at you, man. I should be really cheesed off. I shouldn't want to talk to you anymore.
Why? Because I got bored and had sex with you one day, and then I didn't, like, marry you?
Like I'd marry you! You would be the meanest wife of all time. And anyway, I know you weren't bored that day because there was a lot of stuff on TV. The Blair Witch Project was on Starz, and you were like, "Oh, I want to watch this, but we should make out instead. La la la."
Forget it, Bleek. Take Katrina the Douche Packer to the prom. I'm sure you guys will have a really bitchin' time!
Yeah, well... I still have your underwear.
I still have your virginity!
Oh my God, SHUT UP!
What? Are you ashamed that we did it?
No...
Well at least you don't have to walk around with the evidence under your sweater. I'm a planet!
Wait, let me take that.
Huh?
You shouldn't be carrying that heavy bag. I'll take it.
Oh. It's fine. What's another ten pounds?
Did you put like a hundred things of Tic Tacs in my mailbox?
Yeah. That was me.
Why?
Because they're your fave. And you can never have too much of your favorite onecalorie breath mint.
Well... thanks. I think I'm pretty much set until college on the Tic Tac front.
You know, I've been thinking. I'm really sorry I was such a huge bitch to you. You didn't deserve that. You never deserve any of the poo I unload on you.
You know it's okay.
Also, I think I'm in love with you.
What, you mean as friends?
No, for real. I think you are the coolest person I've ever met. And you don't even have to try.
I try really hard, actually...
No, you're naturally smart. You always think of the funniest things to do. Remember when you passed me that postcard during Spanish class, and it was addressed like, "Junebug MacGuff, Row 4, Third Seat From the Blackboard"? And it said, "I'm having fun in Barcelona  wish you were here"? That was hilarious.
I was just bored. I only think school is awesome like, 80% of the time.
Plus, you're the only person who doesn't stare at my stomach all the fucking time. You actually look at my face. And every time I look at you, the baby starts kicking me super hard.
It does?
Wizard!
I think it's because my heart starts pounding when I see you.
Mine too.
Basically, I'm completely smitten with you, and I don't care if I'm making an ass out of myself right now, because you've seen me make an ass out of myself a million times, and you still want to be my friend.
Well, yeah. You're the best friend I've ever had, even when you're being kind of evil.
That's all I need from you. That's more than I could ever ask for. You're just golden, dude.
Can we make out now?
Okay.
You're a part time lover and a fulltime friend. The monkey on your back is the latest trend. I don't see what anyone can see, in anyone else but you.
Here is the church and here is the steeple. We sure are cute for two ugly people. I don't see what anyone can see, in anyone else but you.
We both have shiny happy fits of rage. You want more fans, I want more stage. I don't see what anyone can see, in anyone else but you.
You are always trying to keep it real. I'm in love with how you feel. I don't see what anyone can see, in anyone else but you.
I kiss you on the brain in the shadow of a train. I kiss you all starryeyed, my body's swinging from side to side. I don't see what anyone can see, in anyone else but you.
The pebbles forgive me, the trees forgive me. So why can't you forgive me? I don't see what anyone can see, in anyone else but you.
Paul? Are you coming downstairs to eat?
I don't think so.
You ran eight miles today, Puppy.
I'm not hungry, oddly.
But it's breakfast for supper. Your favorite, Paulie. I made French toast and sausage. Patties, not linkies, just like you like it.
Juno MacGuff called while you were out running. She wants to know if you're coming to her little coffeehouse performance on Saturday.
Thanks for the message.
You know how I feel about her.
You've mentioned it about fifty times.
I just hope you don't consider her a close friend.
That's disgusting! This is the largest, meanest, most vicious shark ever landed off Amity Island, and a known maneater!
Let's just cut him open and see what's inside...
I'm sorry, Martin. She's in a sick, terrible state.
Look, maybe this is the wrong time to pursue this, but I'm not sure...
Is that tooth here? Did anyone see it?
I don't have it.
Carcaradon carcharias. A Great White.
Well, I'm not going to commit economic suicide on that flimsy evidence. We depend on the summer people for our lives, and if our beaches are closed, then we're all finished.
Sick vandalism! Brody, that's a deliberate mutilation of a public service message! I want those little painthappy bastards caught and hung up by their baby Buster Browns!
That's it! I'm standing here arguing with a guy who can't wait to be a hot lunch. Goodbye.
I've been to sea since I was 12. I've crewed three Transpacs 
Transplants?
 and an America's Cup Trials...
I'm not talking about day sailing or pleasure boating. I'm talking about working for a living. Sharking.
And I'm not talking about hooking some poor dogfish or sand shark. I'm talking about a Great White.
Are you now. I know about porkers in the water  Here. Tie me a sheepshank.
I don't need to pass basic seamanship.
Let me see your hands...
Ha. City hands. You been counting money. If you had a $5000 net and $2000 worth of fish in it, and along comes Mr. White, and makes it look like a kiddy scissors class has gone to work on it and made paper dolls. If you'd ever worked for a living, you'd know what that means.
Look, I don't need to hear any of this working class hero crap. Some party boat skipper who's killed a few sharks...
Hey, Squirt! You want to stow this gear or you want me to use it for ballast? It ain't good for much but bait.
I'll see ya. Tell Dorothy hello.
Hello, Junior. What are you? Some kind of halfassed astronaut? Jesus Christ, when I was a kid, every little squirt wanted to be a harpooner or a sword fisherman. What d'ya have there  a portable shower?
AntiShark cage.
Who's inside, you or the shark?
What's that supposed to prove?
Just a little appetizer. I want our porker to know we're serving. I want to put some iron into that big yap...
Nothing. Nothing, nothing, nothing.
Hell, in the old days we went out with good charts, good sounding lead, and a damn good compass. Nowadays, these kids are afraid to go out without depth finders, radar, radio, electric toothbrush, every stupid thing...
Watch it! Compressed air  you screw around with one of those and Boom! Careful, huh?
Real fine stuff but it won't mean a thing to Mr. Whitey, of course... he didn't go to schools in electronics. He was born with what he does best. Eat. He's a swimming appetite. 'Course he might eat this stuff, but then I've seen him eat a rocking chair, too. Next time, ask me.
That's pilot whale, isn't it?
It ain't a Big Mac. The expert don't approve. What do you thing? You're closer to the situation.
Hey, you! Farmer! Halfspeed there...
Aye, Aye SIR. Stand by to repel boarders. Poop the mainsail. Argh, Jim Boy.
Gettin' ready to run again  no? No? What's he playin' here? Put the gloves on! Let's see who's gonna tease who now!
Let it go, don't waste your time.
Down here, Hooper!
I don't know what it is, but it's not a shark.
Look  you may be a big Yahoo in the lab, but out here you're just supercargo, and you'll do as I say, or you can take your gear and backstroke home. Now get down here!
A marlin, or a stingray. Huh. Don't ever tell me my business again. Get back up on the bridge.
I'm okay...
Fasten the pole.
Over there!
What do you see?
At least you handle the boat all right. Stop. Here... Cut the engine.
20 feet, if it's an inch...
25 feet. And three tons of him there.
Wire burn. Trying to stop a backstay from taking my head off.
Moray Eel. Bit right through a wet suit.
Face and head scars come from amateur amusements in the bar room. This love line here... ...that's from some crazy Frenchie come after me with a knife. I caught him with a good right hand right in the snot locker and laid him amongst the sweetpeas.
Ever see one like this?
Bull shark scraped me while I was taking samples...
Nothing! A pleasure scar. Look here 
I'll drink to your leg.
And I'll drink to yours.
...Mako. Fell out of the tail rope and onto the deck. You don't get bitten by one of those bastards but twice  your first and your last.
I think I can top that, Mister...
Don't tell me  'Death Before Dishonor.' 'Mother.' 'Semper Fi.' Uhhh... 'Don't Tread on Me.' C'mon  what?
'U.S.S Indianapolis.' 1944.
Easy! It'll tear right out!
The shaft is giving.
Coming right to us!
No  comin' right at us! Slow ahead, he'll hit us head on  Slower! Throttle back 
He's heading under  !
No way! He can't!
Follow him!
He's under!
What can that gun of yours do?
Power head with 20 ccs of strychnine nitrate. If I can hit him. I can kill him. But I gotta be close. Very close.
What have you got there, Lenny?
We had a shark attack at South Chop this morning, Mayor. Fatal. Gotta batten down the beach.
Who've you told this to, Lenny?
I just found out about it  but there's a bunch of Boy Scouts in the water a coupla miles down the coast from where we found the girl. Avril Bay, thereabouts. Chief went to dry them off.
Take my car, okay? You come with us, Lenny.
I've got all these signs here...
C'mon, it'll give us time to think about what they're going to say.
...push this? Oh. It's working. Hello, Martin?
This is Quint, Missus.
I just wanted to know if you were all right... the Coast Guard let me use their radio. Is Chief Brody there?
He's busy.
Well... is everything all right?
Just fine, Missus. We'll be back soon. Everything's fine. We haven't seen anything yet. Orca out.
Hi. I'm Matt Hooper. If your husband is here, I'd like to talk to him.
So would I. Come on in.
Would you like something? Some coffee?
Is anyone having this...?
My husband tells me you're in sharks.
I wouldn't put it that way. But I love sharks.
You love sharks?
I do. But you've still got a problem here, there's a shark just off the island somewhere.
Here's to your husband, the only other rational man on the island. Day after tomorrow, I'll be gone, and he'll be the only one.
You're leaving?
Going out on the 'Aurora.'
Is that a boat?
Is it! The bestfunded research expedition to ever study the shark... around the world in 18 months.
Like those Cousteau specials on television? I think it's for the kids, but I love them.
Better than Cousteau, or Compagno with computers, telemetry, Defense Department funding...
I saw a show with sea otters, and a big turtle... Mikey loved it. Made me promise to get him one. Will you live on the boat?
Yep.
Martin hates boats. Hates the water. On the ferry to the mainland, he sits in the car the whole way over. He's got this childhood thing, there's a clinical word for it.
You wanna call it a night after here?
It's only twothirty. What, are you tired?
Yeah, Charlie, I got my second wind three nibbles back.
Leg of lamb this time?
Screw lamb  let's shoot the sirloin!
We're blowin' half the bounty on bait 
One more after this, then I'm going home.
Set?
You do this all the time, right, Charlie?
Twenty years.
I can't believe that people pay money to go fishing. This is really dumb. This isn't even relaxing... it's just boring.
Look at him take it!
Do I set the goddam hook?
Let him do it! Gogogogogo!
We're not even sure what it was.
What else could've done that?
...and Bill Mayhew almost caught him in his net...?
Doctor, you're the one who told me what it was!
Look, I've got to talk to her. This isn't a contest we want the whole country entering.
I agree. If she's going to advertise, I wouldn't recommend outoftown papers. Amity people could take care of this.
I'm responsible for public safety around here...
I'd like to tell you what we're doing so far. These are some of the steps I've taken as Chief of Police...
What's going on with the beaches, Chief?
Where'd you hide the 'Beach Closed' signs?
We never had any. What's the problem?
Polly told me to tell you there's a scout troop in Avril Bay doing the mile swim for their Merit Badges. I couldn't call them in, there's no phone out there.
Get out of there take these back to the office and make up some 'Beach Closed' signs, and let Polly do the printing.
What's the matter with my printing?
...So then Denherder and Charlie sat there trying to catch their breath, and figuring out how to explain to Charlie's wife what happened to her freezer full of meat.
That wasn't funny.
Mrs. Kintner must've put her ad in Field and Stream.
Looks more like the readers of the National Enquirer.
Christine what?
Worthingsly... Worthington  no one ever died on me before.
You picked her up on the ferry.
I didn't know her.
And nobody else saw her in the water?
Somebody could've  I was sort of passed out.
Think she might've run out on you?
Oh, no, sir. I've never had a woman do that. I'm sure she drowned.
You from around here?
No. Cambridge. Harvard. My family's in Tuxedo, New York, though.
You here for the summer?
Some friends and me took a house.
What d'you pay for a place just for the summer?
A thousand apiece, something like that. There's five of us. And we each kick in a hundred a week for beer and cleaning, stuff like that.
Pretty stiff.
There's a fantail launch out there that won't make it beyond the breakwater.
You're tellin' me. I swear, this town has gone crazy.
Officer, I wonder if you could tell me where I could find Chief Brody?
Who are you?
Hooper, Matt Hooper. From the Oceanographic Institute.
...height and weight may only be estimated from partial remains. Torso severed in midthorax, eviscerated with no major organs remaining. May I have a drink of water? Right arm severed above the elbow with massive tissue loss from upper musculature. Portions of denuded bone remaining.  did you notify the coast guard?
No, it was local jurisdiction.
Left arm, head, shoulders, sternum and portions of ribcage intact. Please don't smoke. With minor post mortem lacerations and abrasions. Bite marks indicate typical nonfrenzy feeding pattern of large squali, possibly carchaninus lonimanus, or isurus glaucas. Gross tissue loss and postmortem erosion of bite surfaces prevent detailed analysis; however, teeth and jaws of the attacking squali must be considered above average for these waters.  Did you go out in a boat and look around?
No, we just checked the beach...
It wasn't an 'accident,' it wasn't a boat propeller, or a coral reef, or Jack the Ripper. It was a shark. It was a shark.
Well, if one man can catch a fish in 50 days, then I guess 50 of these bozos can catch a fish in one day  beginner's luck.
You did it! Did Ben Gardner catch this?
I didn't say this wasn't the shark, I just said I wasn't sure this was the one...
What d'ya mean?
There are hundreds of different kinds of sharks; makos, blues, hammerheads, whitetips... any one of them could've attacked. Look  shark digestion is slow. We could open this one up, and find whatever he's been eating is still inside.
Dynamite! How was your day...?
Swell.
We ought to let it breathe... Whatever.
Let's all have a drink.
Drowning. Lemme ask you something. Is it true most attacks take place in three feet of water, around 10 feet from the beach?
Yeah. Like the kid on your beach. I wish I could've examined that shark they caught...
Something else. Do most attacks go unreported?
About half of them. A lot of 'missing swimmers' are really shark victims.
There's a kind of a lone shark, called, uh...
Rogue?
Yeah. Rogue. Picks out an area where there's food and hangs out there as long as the food supply lasts?
It's called Territoriality. It's a theory.
And before 1900, when people first starting swimming for recreation, before public bathing and resorts, there were very few shark attacks, cause sharks didn't know what they were missing?
You could say that.
...And it was Dartmouth Winter weekend, and she was Homecoming Queen, and I was her date; then she got into the fact that her family had more money than my family, and she was right  her greatgrandfather was in mining, and my ancestors were Yankee shipbuilders. So we broke up and I went home with some beatnik from Sarah Lawrence.
What stinks so bad?
Our friend, the shark.
What's that?
Half a flounder. Hmmm... a burlap bag... a paint can... aha!
What? What?!
Just as I thought. He drifted up here with the Gulf Stream, from southern waters.
How can you tell?
Florida license plate.
He ate a car?
No, but Tiger sharks are the garbage cans of the ocean. They eat anything. But this one didn't eat any people. There's nothing here...
...Nothing.
What do we do?
If you're looking for a shark, you don't look on land. You go out and chum for him.
Chum?
Only one sure way to find him  offer him a little something to eat. Chum  blood, waste meat, fish, anything. They can sense it miles away. If he's out there, we might be able to get a closer look at him. It's a good time, too. They're night feeders...
What is all this stuff?
Depthfinder, fathometer, sonar, closedcircuit TV  fore and aft  RDF, single side band... And two loose nuts behind the wheel.
Can you tell from that if a big man eater is around?
Sometimes. Look here  something big, probably a school of mackerel clumped together. And staying right with us.
Where'd you get all this?
I Bought it. Both sets of grandparents set up trust funds for me; stocks went up, so I don't have to touch my principal.
You're at the Institute full time? Or do you have a job?
It is a job. I'm not fooling around like some amateur. It's my life!
We gotta get back soon...
What happened?
I want to check something. Hold my feet.
Don't they have lifejackets or something? An extra boat?
They must've hit something.
He didn't have a dinghy aboard. I'm going down to take a look at his hull.
Why don't we just tow it in?
We will. There's something I've got to find out.
Be careful, for chrissake.
You all right?
A White! A Great White, I found a tooth buried in the hull. He must've attacked... I knew it... Gardner's dead in there. I didn't see the mate...
No shark did that to a boat!
There is a kind of shark called a Great White Shark that every expert in the world agrees is a maneater.
You're situation here suggests that a Great White has staked out a claim in the waters around Amity Island, and that he will continue to feed here as long as there is food in the water.
There's no limits to where he can strike, and we've had three attacks and two deaths in the past few days. It happened like this before, in 1916, when a Great White killed five swimmers at Jones Beach, in Long Island.
A shark's attack is stimulated by the kind of splashing and activity that occurs whenever humans go swimming  you can't avoid it!
A 4th of July beach is like ringing a dinner bell, for Chrissake!
I just pulled a shark tooth the size of a shot glass out of the hull of a wrecked boat out there.
We towed Ben Gardner's boat in, Larry; he was dead and his boat was all chewed up.
I'm familiar with the fact that you are going to ignore this thing until it swims up and bites you on the ass! There are only two ways to solve this thing: you can kill it, or you can cut off its food supply...
That means closing the beaches.
Wait a minute! I need you.
Out there is a Perfect Engine, an Eating Machine that is a miracle of evolution  it swims and eats and that's all. Look at that! Those proportions are correct. I know sharks.
I hope we get some more help.
I wish it would rain...
This has got to be one big violation...
This is quite a place.
What's that, a ship?
You were on the Indianapolis? In '45? Jesus...
What the hell?
It's a whale out there.
Don't shoot him any more! He's crazy on his own blood already!
I can't stand here doing nothing!
Quint...?
No... You think we can get back with those?
What day is this?
Wednesday... No, it's Tuesday, I think.
Think the tide's with us?
Just keep kicking.
Y'know, I used to hate the water...
I can't imagine why.
Martin! Are you going to shut down the beach on your own authority?
Do I need any more authority?
Now tell me something I don't know.
All I'm saying is that Amity is a summer town  we need summer dollars, and if they can't swim here, they'll use the beaches at Cape Cod, or Long Island.
So we should set out a smorgasbord?
I don't think you can appreciate the gut reaction people have to these things.
I was only reacting to what I was told.
I can't work in a vacuum. Why don't you make Hendricks Chief? His family's been here since the Puritans  half this island are his cousins.
Martin, we hired the best man we could find.
I'll get to that in a minute. First, I plan to start our seasonal summer help early, and to use shark spotters on beaches open to the sea. I'd like cooperation from local fishermen, and I've also contacted the Oceanographic Institute over on the mainland.
No need to involve outsiders in our business, Martin.
Only 24 hours!
I didn't agree to that!
Larry, if you'd see these clowns leave, you'd never believe they'd come back with anything. But they got him!
That's good. That's real good. Ben Meadows getting pictures for the paper.
Sure he is.
Who's that young man?
Matt Hooper, the specialist they send down from the Oceanographic Institute.
I think we all owe a debt of gratitude to these men for catching this monster.
Why not, Larry? We could get a positive confirmation that way.
Be reasonable, boys  this isn't the time or the place to do some kind of halfassed autopsy on a fish. Ben... do you have all the pictures you need?
She's right.
Let's all get out of here, this place stinks.
I'm going home.
He lost it on the way up.
What kind of a shark did you say it was?
We have got to close the beaches. We have got to get someone to kill the shark, we need noncorrosive mesh netting, we need scientific support... It's gonna cost money just to keep the nuts out and save what we have.
I don't thing either of you is familiar with our problems...
You'd love to prove that. Getting your name in the National Geographic.
Larry, we can reopen the beaches in August.
August! Tomorrow is the 4th of July, and we are going to open for business. It's going to be our best summer in years. If you're so concerned about the beaches, you two, you do whatever you have to to keep them safe, but with you or without you, the beaches stay open this weekend.
Got a pen on you?
Why?
There's only one thing you're good for anymore  signing a damn voucher. Here. It's an authorization to employ a contractor.
I don't know if I can do that without a...
I'm going to hire Quint to kill the fish. I want to see that shark dead.
Maybe we can save August...
Forget it. This summer's had it. Next summer's had it. You're the mayor of Shark City. You wanted to keep the beaches open. What happens when the town finds out about that?
I was acting in the town's best interests...
The best interest in this town would be to see that fish bellyup in the water with a hole in his head. You do the right thing. You authorize me. Right there. Whatever it costs.
My kids were on that beach...
Just sign it, Larry.
How come the sun didn't used to shine in here?
'cause when we bought the house it was Autumn. This is summer. Feed the dogs.
Right.
Do you see the kids?
Probably out in the back yard.
In Amity, you say 'Yahd.'
The kids are in the yahd, playing near the cah. How's that sound?
Like you're from N'Yawk.
Give me 30 years, I'll get it.
Did you burn another kettle? Y'know you're a fire hazard? This is the third one!
I never hear the whistle.
Feed the dogs.
You want to go through those? I'm taking them to the Thrift Shop. It's Marcia Vaughn's pet charity. Pick out what you want to keep  it's mostly your city clothes.
I used to wear this to the Garden. Garbage strikes. Dog shit. Muggers. Ship it.
Don't be silly  You're going to make summer better for them...
Don't forget these.
Oh, yeah. How do I look? Older, huh?
I think they make you look sexy.
Sexy, hm? What was I before?
Older, sillier.
I don't want to depend on these things, y'know  sometimes you can weaken your eyes.
Be careful.
Here? You gotta be kiddin'.
Love ya.
Hey Chief. Bring my cup back.
You're very tight, y'know? Right there.
Ow. He's gotta be more careful in the water...
Can you stand something to eat?
Love a cup of tea. With lemon.
Mikey loves his birthday present.
Where is he?
He's sitting in it.
It's three feet deep, Martin
Michael! Come inside!
It's his birthday present, and you closed the beach, Honey. I told him not to go in the water after what happened yesterday. I don't believe he'll ever do it again.
I told him not to go out until he memorized the handbook and the safety safety regulations, until he was sure of himself...
How come you have to tell them that?
Excuse me, but what are you talking about? Didn't they catch the shark this afternoon? It was on the Cape station news.
You too, sweetheart...
Thank you.
Why don't we have one more drink, you and I, and then we go down and cut open that old shark and see for sure what's inside him, or not.
Can you do that?
I am Chief of Police. I can do anything I want. You want to come?
Home... New York?
No. Home here.
Colorful, isn't he?
You going to be all right?
Nothing to worry about  I'll survive this.
I'll see you back soon. There's an extra pair of glasses in your black socks, and there's some suntan lotion and blistex in your kit.
Yohoho and a bottle of rum.
What'll I tell the kids?
Tell 'em I went fishin'!
Did you bring a check?
What?
Cash? Or do we do this on a handshake and a promise?
I'm authorized by the township of Amity to hire you as an independent contractor. We'll meet your price. $10,000.
And my regular daily rate  $200, whether we catch him or not.
You got it.
And incidental damages, if any...
You got it.
And you get the Mayor off my back with this zoning crap. Nobody tells me how to run my property.
You got it.
And, uh, a case of apricot brandy and you buy the lunch.
Two cases. And dinner when you land.
Try some of this. I made it myself.
This is Matt Hooper...
I know who he is...
He's from the Oceanographic Institute.
Hey. Knock it off. I don't want to have to listen to this while we're out there...
What do you mean 'We...?'
It's my charter. My party.
All right, Commissioner. But when we're on my ship, I am Master, Mate and Pilot. And I want him... ...along for ballast.
You got it.
Keep that chum line going  we've got five good miles. Don't break it.
Who's driving the boat?
Nobody. We're drifting with the current.
Why are we way out here, when the shark's back there?
...'cause this is where he lives. You gotta think like they do.
You got it?
Get behind me, dummy! Reverse her and turn  he's taking too much line! Wet my reel, quick!
The wire's showing!
Unbuckle me  fast! Grab the leader. He ain't normal, this one... they never 
What's the point with hooks and Lines? 
Don't tell me my business! Quartermile, that way. Full throttle.
How  if they're gonna keep on breaking?
What I do is trick him to the surface, got that? Then I can jab him, understand? Think I'm gonna haul it in as if he's a catfish, like everyone else does?
I never saw one that big.
What do we do? Get some help? Radio in?
Why don't we go in? Get another crack at him tomorrow.
We got a barrel on him. We can't lose him. We stay out here until we find him.
Let's call in  we can radio and have a big boat here in an hour...
You hired me, remember? It's my $10,000. It's my shark...
Look a' that  Bayonet Iwo Jima.
C'mon. Middle appendix 
I almost had 'im.
What's that one, there?
Tattoo. Had it taken off.
He's busting the shaft! Start the pump!
Where...?
The bilge pumps. There 
That's it! Radio in for help!
Shut up! Just pump her out!
Yeah, Captain, as soon as I make a call.
Did you get him in the head?
No! No! No! Swing around! After him!
What about us?
Have to pump her steady, s'all.
He can't stay down with three barrels on him! Where is he?!
Have you ever had one do this?
No!
He's trying to sink us!
Dead astern! Zigzag!
He's chasing us! I don't believe it.
Full throttle! To port!
He's comin' up  !
He's taken him!
Cut my hand. Hit by a vampire.
On the swing? I told you not to play near there until I sanded it down. See what your son did?
Son!  Out of the water now!
My boat's neat, dad!
I want him out of the ocean.
You're not going to the ocean with that, are you son?
I'm all checked out for light surf and look at it.
Do me this favor just once. Use the ponds.
Dad, the ponds are for old ladies.
Just a favor for your old man.
Sure, Dad.
My cars. And a comic book.
Here  Take him home.
The hockey player? He a friend of yours?
Hockey player? He's not a ...
He's dead! Everyone's dead! Old Earth is dead!
Old Earth?
What have you done?
What have I done?! Idiots.
So, you're saying thse guys have like, lasers and stuff? They could hack him to pieces?
Exactly.
Yes!
Listen up duck fuckers, you can't kill this thing.
Listen to me. Please. Let's get off thsi ship. Come with me.
Rizzo, a shuttle out in the middle of space? We'll die oout there.
Can we get through these?
Sure but what good will that do?
Guys, he's right behind us!
It's okay.
Where..? Who . . .? I'm alive. You brought me back.
Obviously so.
How did I get here, how did you bring me back?
Nanotechnology.
Nano...but nanotechnology is impossible.
We've had NanoTech for the last 30 years.
30? How long was I out?
Now lay back we need to do some tests and I have some questions...
JASON?! WHERE IS HE?!
We need to do some tests...I'd like to ask you a few questions.
But...I...400 years?
That's right, now if you could...
Jason? He's on this ship?!
Of course he is. He's the most relevant find in 400 years...except for you, of course. Look if you're worried about PR don't be. You're walking and talking. He's a stiff. You'll get the publicity.
Are you finished?
Jason! Can't you see? He did this.
Impossible! He was dead before he entered Cryostatis. There is no possible way he could be alive.
I didn't say he was alive.
Azrael can you repeat that?
Get him out of there!
That's ridiculous. You're overreacting.
Why don't you get it? He's going to kill us all!
You're not going anywhere.
You wanna die?
Are we locked down?
What good will that do?
They can deal with this sort of thing.
More soldiers?
Scientists. Very intellegent men.
That's great. I bet they'll kick Jason's ass at a spelling bee!
Guys, please come with me!
4You're not going anywhere.
How do you open the damn door?
You're crazy!
It's okay, he just wanted his machete.
Three...two...one...
You son of a bitch, you know what time it is?
We just left old Earth. You'll never believe what we found.
I'm sending you the files.
Yeah, yeah if this is another ancient Farrari . . .
Trust me. I'm bypassing regular channels. See what kind of payday we're looking at.
Alright, I'm . . . No way . . . is this a joke?
Hypothetically, how much are we talking?
If you're for real, you're looking at a million credits for viewing rights alone. Doesn't include touring and guest lectures. When can you get them here?
I'll reset our course . . . 3 hours?
See you then . . . doctor.
I don't understand...what does he want?
He wants to kill you...and me...and everyone on this ship.
What?
Ssh.
How do you know?
I just know.
Something's wrong.
Keep trying!
The power's back up!
Then open the doors!
Thirty seconds.
Damn! Close the door! I'll be right back.
What?!!
I gotta go back.
But?!!
Yo, Teach, what the fuck?
We're missing two of the kids!
Get your ass back to the shuttle. I'll check it out.
Fat Lou, bring the ship to the following coordinates. Call Grendel, have them power up the labs, we're bringing in the find of the century!
Now wait a minute! I don't think you should open that door.
This is a science excursion corporal. Just stay out of the way.
Kicker!
Defense droids. I'm on it.
Leave him behind!
No! He's coming with us!
The air's laced with type two ozone, it reads as a solid.
Somebody wanted the place to stay hidden.
In twentyeightytwo many of the survivors moved their facilities underground to escape . . .
The cryo unit leaked. The computers sealed the room. No airborne viruses no hazardous materials. I've shut down the until. Alright, stand back.
Hold your breath. Initial cryo gasses will render you unconcious.
I didn't say I was good at it.
Oh shit! There he is!
I'll never experience my fantasy of three sex droids, two humans, and a Knofflapod. Damn.
Am I in there?
Sory...
It's just you and me, then.
Come here, might as well fix that arm.
Almost done.
Ow!
Oh, hush. I disengaged your pain programming.
Sometimes I just wish I had a kitten.
Sorry, sorry.
Who are you apologizing to?
Good point.
Do I have to?
Yes, I've reprogrammed you. You are very brave. Bad ass.
Oh, alright.
KayEm, you okay?
Don't worry about me. I live for this shit.
You did good, KayEm. I'm proud of you.
A real mamma's boy that one. Dissed his mamma and he nearly threw a tantrum. Little good it did him.
KayEm we made it!
Oh, goody. I'm so pleased. I'd clap if I could.
Kayem you okay?
I am now. I missed you, Thorgan.
I missed you too.
I love you.
Robot huh?
Kayem 14.
Barbie from hell...
Cybernetics science droid, fluent in over six...
Yeah 3cpo, I saw STAR WARS, now how about you help me get out of this coffin, Barbie...
I'm afraid I cannot assist.
I'm surrounded by idiots.
You need to get laid!
No... That's the sound of the men working on the chain gang.
Are there any other shuttles?
Sumbitch won't be giving us anymore trouble.
You killed him?
Blew half his skull away, one leg, one arm and left his entrails stretched across the lab. And look at me! I'm covered in his filthy blood!
I'll tell you where he is. He's walking around this ship, killing anything that moves.
Maybe she tripped.
Boeman don't. You know I'm right.
Are you crazy?! Pull the lever!
No.
Teleportation? Some way to beam us the hell out of dodge?
Any connection between your reality and mine is purely coincidental.
I'm just saying.
Come on. You got all these gadgets and shit. Why can't we get inside the right hull, seal up the doors and blow the walkways?
I don't know...sorry?
Sergeant, we could use a big bomb.
You're quicker than usual.
Later.
You prefer an apple?
Jesus!
Oh my God! Adrienne?
Look ice chip, why don't you just chill out and let us handle this?
Try to calm down. Just think, you're going to be famous!
What are you doing?
Jesus! Can't you knock? Diminish power to shutttle Beowulf.
What do we do?!!
Crutch?
This is what it means right here.
Small brains make your balls itch?
I'm gonna spew.
That ought'a help the situation.
You think it killed . . . Yeah, I guess not.
Let's just get out of here.
Hurry! She's lost it!
So what else is new?
You read a lot of Science Fiction didn't you?
A little late to be thinking about escape, isn't it?
YeaH, GREAT IDEA! And I'll keep the big guy distracted with a blow job.
Would you?
You're so bossy.
You're leaving me here alone?
I'm missing two!
Shit! Temp's dropping! We should have left this rock an hour ago!
Hey teach! This rock's starting to freeze! Get your ass back hre!
Keep your shirt on! I'm working on it. You won't believe what we found. Adrienne! Stoney!
Oh my God . . . what the hell is . . .
Just get us to the ship!
Fat Lou, we're changing courses for the Solaras Space Lab.
I'll need the sergeant's okay on that.
We've got a situation here! Just do as you're told!
Alright, relax. 20 minutes. Soon as we've passed Tara's rings we'll make the course correction.
Thank you.
And what's with the headgear?
The mask is an artifact from a sport outlawed in twentytwelve.
Now that's just gross.
GO, GO, GO!
Now this is getting exciting.
Remember to roll his balls around a bit.
You must shut down the engines.
Then do it. The rescue ship can find us here right?
I knew you were a little sick, but Geez.
I get no kick from champaign, mere alcohol doesn't faze me at all, but I get a kick out of you.
Push off toward us.
Forget her, she's a pain in the ass. Let her hang there.
I...I don't know what I did...
You lost the charge?
He was chasing me!
They're not gonna make it. Close the door before he gets us all.
They'll make it.
Close the fucking door!
NO!
Now hold on! We should hear her out!
She's obviously dealt with this guy before.
Yuck.
We're screwed.
Gogogogogo!!!!
He's right behind us!
I feel better. Now how do you fire this damn thing?
Just go! I've a feeling he's right behind us!
It's on the table where I left it! What the hell are you doing?! Hurry up!
I'm on my way.
Kaboom.
Again?! Jesus!
Okay?!!
Just come on, I've got an idea.
I'll help you in.
KayEm, you've saved our lives, you know that don't you?
Oh, shit. He's going to see us.
Well, do something!
He's trying to ask you out on a date.
Shut up, Thorgan!
Now what?
We wait. I need about fifteen. Call me if there are any changes. If she farts I want a full report.
It's time.
What about the others? Shouldn't we wait?
I've waited long enough. Kay . . . you know what to do.
Spunky . . .
She broke my fucking nose!
Well?
She needs a little time.
More time...shit, she's had 400 years...
That's really funny.
I'd want her statements before we reach porch. Jesus, women.
Yeah, like you'd be a rock after everything she went through?
God damnit! Will you stop doing that?!
Oh I like her a lot.
Shut up! She just wants this thing dead!
No shit. I got no problem with that.
We must assume the machete was an intricate part of the game of hockey.
I'm thinking Rizzo was right.
Thinking with your dick again, Delongpre?
Maybe we should go with them. Like you said, your Space Lab connections can deal with this thing. At least we'll be safe.
They are not going anywhere. I cut power to the shuttle.
Where are you going?
We have to get off this ship.
You just need to relax. Rizzo ti's the future. We have soldiers on board, EX Grunts, the baddest of the bad...and their weapons? I'm sure are slightly more advanced than what you're used to.
I hope so.
Outta here?
Isn't there an escape POD on this ship? Something?
Rizzo, he's out there.
Yeah and he'll be here soon enough. Last chance.
Well, I'm not hanging out here with Ms. Showtunes.
Guys!!! The shuttle?
Don't just stand there! Shoot him!
No you don't!
Kkinsa, open the goddamn door!
Yeah, that's it, scare the hell out of here, that'll work.
Kkinsa, Crutch is hurt! We need access to the shuttle's medkit or he'll die.
Medkit?
I guessed.
We're screwed!
400 years in the future and these peashooters are the best you can do?!
What if you miss?
What if we don't?
Rizzo?!
It's better this way. If we were rescued Jason would just get off the ship. You want him on your precious Earth II?
Hey.
That's a good fantasy, though. Kinky, but good.
Hey!!
What's this?
It's the engine, reactors, audiometers, it's the stuff that makes the ship go zoom.
That's why I'm here.
So, you thought you'd be cool. Go against your father's wishes? Yeah, that's grown up.
My father's company imports and exports. Archaeology is part of the business. We happen to get along just fine, smartass. Look, why don't you bust somebody else's balls for a change.
I thought you meant...
You thought I meant...too tough to apologize, huh? You must have been a very lonely girl.
Jason seemed to have the right stuff. Physically, anyway. Radiation, cell damage, didn't matter. He just kept going.
Were you close to your father?
They were all wrong. They couldn't control him.
And what happend to ...?
I couldn't save them.
Well, we'd be dead without you. You know that, don't you?
See? We're not so bad.
Not so bad.
You know, this future shit sucks. I'll fucking do it.
You?
Wait around on your asses all day. I'll need a distraction.
Got it. You ever space walked?
Oh sure, all the time.
His mother was killed before his eyes. That's what drove him insane. It'll work.
That sounds like Rizzo having faith in some of that future shit.
Eat me.
You wanna release your air tanks?
Okay, good tip.
You'll be fine.
Rizzo, you okay?
No I'm not okay! I don't know what the hell I'm doing!
You're doing fine. I won't let anything happen to you, remember?
Rizzo, did they have chinese food in your time?
I think I had some when I was eight.
Did you like it?
I think so, why?
Delongpre, you don't even know me.
I know you.
Rizzo, pull away!
I'm stuck!
You okay?!
Oh great...yeah, having a great time, and you?
No thank you, you crazy old woman.
Old woman?
Well I mean, technically you are old enough to be my great, great, great...
I get it.
Where is everybody? What happened?
Damnit! You scared the hell out of me!
Give me a break! What happened?
Jason. He's what happened. Then Grendel hit Space Lab.
Space Lab?! Wait'll I get my hands on Yllo.
Yllo's dead. We...we thought you were too.
Takes more than a steelbalde to take this old dog down.
Pull me in!
I'm pulling, damnit!
Jesus, God!
Oh man, what the hell happened?
Report to weapons. We're going on a hunt.
Roger that. Time to kick some ass!
You sumbitch! Three dead! On my watch! If that...that thing is out there, it's dead! You got it!!!
Fuckin A...
Now get out of our way...get back to the lab and baby sit your snot nosed brats... we've got a job to do!
Kicker, anything?
Negative.
Jesus, Sarge, what is this thing?
Teach! Where the hell are you?! Where's our visuals?!!
I'm with you kid.
Where is he?
Lab two, relax. What's the matter? He's dead.
No, you're dead! You're all dead!
He's dead. They're both dead. You don't understand what is on this ship. This is a being that kills. That's what he does. That's all he does. And he is very good at it.
Kicker, Sven. Get into the grid and tell me what the hell is going on!
I doubt that. I think we can handle whatever your ancient hockey player can throw at us.
Look! Just get everyone together, get off the ship... and then blow it to kingdom fucking come! That's the only way you're going to live.
I need to know what you know about this guy.
Don't go out there. You can't win. We need to get off this ship. That's all there is to it.
Not an option. I'm going to hunt this son of a bitch down.
We need weapons.
Weapons? All this technology and what good has it done?!
Get them in the lab!
Not so fast Yllo! There's a protocol here.
My god! This is way over your head, pal. We need to call some experts and . . .
I am an expert!
You're a teacher.
Brodski I'll talk slow so you can understand me. She's thawing. If we don't get her to the lab, she'll die, and that will be on your bald fucking head!
What if they're carrying? Did you even check?
How do you know that piece of cursed rock down there doesn't carry something metal tits can't detect?
Well, when we rejuvenate this one you can ask her.
Damnit, Yllo! I don't like it.
I don't give a shit. This one's prime for decryonization. We're brining her back.
I still think we should send for a team of real scientists.
I am a scientist you asshole! This could be the most important discovery in 400 years. Do you have any idea what a find like this could mean?
Right now, I care only for the safety of this crew. You don't know anything about these two 
Jesus what the hell is that?
That's exactly what we need to find out. Check your orders, Sergeant. I out rank you where discovery is concerned. Now step aside. I have a medical emergency to deal with.
What the hell are you doing?
My job.
Fine, just stay out of my way. Hit it.
Wait a minute...I need...
Give it a rest Yllo. She needs some time.
Yllo, what's your head count?
Looks like we're missing two. Stone and Kkinsa.
ALL I'm saying is dock with Space Lab, couple of hours no more. Let them take a look at our friends.
Not a chance.
JUst don't go in there half cocked. You guys have a tendency to blow shit up and ask questions later.
You got that right.
Got it! Let's move out girls. Yllo go to Lab two and cover out backs.
At least try to get him alive...will ya Brodski?
Yeah, I got ya. I don't see anything inside though.
You just keep an eye out.
Yeah yeah. Got it.
Ok Sarge, what's your status?
wHAT'S My status?! I've lost three men and your worthless fuck! After I kill this asshole I'm coming your Yllo!
But I didn't see...
Sergeant!
What?
Brodski! Get to Lab two. We have an emergency!
Er, guys. Where's the Hockey Player?
We'd need charges.
We could convert fission transistors.
How many?
Bring 'em all. Let's move!
I think I speak on behalf of the group when I say this is bad news.
Thorgan? You coming?!
Where is...?
You tell me! She's only set one charge. And it's not finished!
I'd say we have about ten minutes tops.
Then stop talking and work faster!
Then what do we do?!
I don't know!
Hurry!
Faster! Don't we have another gun?
It bought us some time.
And now we're all out of it.
Earth II.
Suit up.
Boeman, the ships not here.
Use the thrusters and you'll be fine. We'll huddle together out there.
Hey, easy now.
Creepy.
Cool.
Nice touch.
And you said high school was boring.
You see that?
Briggs, Geko, movement beyond the boxed fuselage.
Better let me.
Where'd you get the gun?
Everyone okay?
I think I broke my arm.
Shit!
The hull's imploding!
Rizzo! Can you hear me?!
We're not supposed to do that.
What are you gonna do, tell me?
I'll need system four converters.
They're back here.
Hey! I'm not ready.
Then you better hurry. I'll blow alley one, Delongpre, you and Rizzo take there. Janessa you ready two and we'll meet up there.
Thorgan, quit screwing around and come on!
I'm coming, I'm coming.
KayEm!
What are you doing back?!!
As long as they're connected we can blow them all simultaneously from a safe distance.
Two more charges to go.
Done!
Let's move out!
Goodbye, my love.
Thorgan, suit up.
This is gonna work. If he sticks to the program. Will he? Stick to the program?
Uhoh.
What?!
Kkinsa! Open the doors!
Okay that hurt.
Thorgan, pull us in.
Where have you been?!!
He....He...
Where the hell were you?!!
He came for me, I had to run!
Damnit to hell, you left me back there to die!
Sergeant? We thought you were...
Yeah, yeah. Well, what have you got to say for yourself?
Bomb?
Explosive. We're blowing the walkway.
Blowing the walkway? You come up with that yourself?
Rizzo did.
Can't shut em' down from here.
Somebody's gonna have to go back to the engine room.
Sergeant!
Get out of here!
Duck fuckers?
He's either unconcious or playing dead, whichever, he ain't really dead. Okay, you know , that's it for me. I'm outta here.
Forget the bridge, the shuttle's waiting!
What do you mean, not enough time?
Just make a break for the door. He'll get some of us, but that's the breaks.
We're not leaving Crutch!
We don't have time to argue!
Goodbye old friend.
Okay, he was a great guy, now let's move out.
Could you show a little compassion?!
It's locked!
Then break it! If you don't pull it, the ship's going to depressurize!
What are you doing?!!
If the ship goes, so does Jaso.
Rizzo pull the fucking lever!
No.
What's that?
THat's the sound of deep space attacking the integrity of the ship.
When the left hull goes, so will the right.
What if we blow the walkways first? Leave Jason over here to go up with the ship?
We can't lead him into the other hull!
We don't have a choice!
Can we blow it with just two?
If we don't sever the hull completely she'll drag us down with her.
His mother?
What?
I don't know. Nothing.
Minimal.
We made it?
The ship's depressurizing, the engines overheating. When it reaches the core, we're done.
Done?
Hurry up, guys. We've got the rescue ship on radar.
Delongpre! Out of time!
Remember, stay calm, use your thrusters. We'll be fine.
Why wouldn't we be. I mean, look around. So far so good.
Watch it punk, I'm armed.
Punk?
That's nine to four, geekboy.
You got lucky.
You got lucky. I could have waited until he ate your head.
Speaking of which, duck!
That sucks. Why won't he go down?
Pause play.
He's not part of the program.
Hey cool. They brought ancient hockey guy back to life.
Asshole that does not count as a kill.
Yes it does.
Oh, come on!
Okay, enough of this shit.
Alright, asshole.
I don't have all day, kid.
Yeah yeah I better call the labs, see what the hell is going on.
I have some ice from the machine.
Bring it in.
Is he all right?
He doesn't like it.
I don't blame him. What should I do with the ice?
Pour it in.
On top of him?
He's melting it as fast as we dump it in.
Okay. My husband's got two more bags. He's coming. They're heavy.
Can I help you?
I'm looking for Dr. Carlson. Isn't this his office?
I'm so sorry. Obviously you haven't ... Dr. Carlson died.
Died?
A car accident.
Jesus, Jesus! ... When?
Last month, before Thanksgiving.
How did it happen?
No one knows. They say it blew up.
Blew up? What do you mean it blew up?
Do you want me to get someone?
No. No. It's okay. I'm okay.
Hello.
Jacob Singer?
Speaking.
Paul Gruneger!
Paul Gruneger! Well I'll be goddamned!
Paul! You sonofabitch, how the hell are you? I haven't seen you in what, five, six, years?
A long time.
Jesus Christ. How've you been? What's happening in your life?
Nothin' much.
Me neither. Nothing too exciting. So tell me, to what do I owe the honor?
I need to see you, Jake.
Shit, Paul. I'd love to see you. But I'm kind of laid up here. I've been sick.
I need to see you.
Jesus, man, you look terrific. You must have put on twenty pounds.
I work in a bakery.
You're lucky. How many vets you know are even employed?
Count 'em on one hand.
It's almost like a conspiracy, huh?
No joke. Fuckin' army! That goddamn war. I'm still fightin' it.
It's not worth it. You'll never win.
You tellin' me? How many times can you die, huh?
Still married, Jake?
Nope.
You and everybody else. God I hate this area. Makes me nervous.
Why the hell we drivin' here?
I just need to talk.
You can't talk in Brownsville?
I'm not sure where I can talk anymore.
What's wrong?
Let's get a couple drinks, okay? Hey, take a look behind us. Do you think that car is followin' us?
That black car?
Pull the mirror down on the sun visor. Just watch 'em.
What's goin' on Paul?
I don't know.
You in trouble?
Yeah.
That's as straight as I can put it. And don't tell me that I'm crazy 'cause I know I'm not. I'm goin' to Hell. They're comin' after me.
Who is?
They've been followin' me. They're comin' outta the walls. I don't trust anyone. I'm not even sure I trust you. But I gotta talk to someone. I'm gonna fly outta my fuckin' mind.
Sorry. Sometimes I think I'm just gonna jump outta my skin. They're just drivin' me wild.
Who, Paul? What exactly ... ?
I don't know who they are, or what they are. But they're gonna get me and I'm scared, Jake. I'm so scared I can't do anything. I can't go to my sisters. I can't even go home.
Why not?
They're waitin' for me, that's why.
It's okay, Paul. It's okay.
I don't know what to do.
Don't do anything. Paul, I know what you're talking about.
What do you mean?
I've seen them too ... the demons!
You've seen them?
Everywhere, like a plague.
God almighty. I thought I was the only one.
Me, too. I had no idea. It's like I was coming apart at the seams.
Oh God. I know. I know.
What is it Paul? What's happening to me?
They keep telling me I'm already dead, that they're gonna tear me apart, piece by piece, and throw me into the fire. I carry these everywhere but they don't help. Nothing helps. Everyone thinks I'm crazy. My mother filed a report with the army.
The army?
She said I haven't been the same since then. Since that night. There's still this big hole in my brain. It's so dark in there, Jake. And these creatures. It's like they're crawling out of my brain. What happened that night? Why won't they tell us?
I don't know. I don't know.
They're monsters, Jake. We're both seein' 'em. There's gotta be a connection. Something.
I'm afraid to go by myself anymore. I keep thinkin' one of 'em's gonna come up behind me. Somethin's wrong when a guy can't even take a leak by himself. I've seen 'em take people right off the street. I used to go home a different way every night. Now I can't even go home.
You come home with me.
What about your girlfriend? You don't think she'll mind?
Are you kidding? We've put up more of her cousins. You wouldn't believe how they breed down there.
I'll page him.
Call my chiropractor.
We're doing everything we can.
Louis Schwartz. Nostrand Avenue.
Well, don't we look better this morning? That was a hard night, wasn't it?
Where am I?
Lennox Hospital.
I'm awake?
You look awake to me. Here. Drink some of this.
Where's Sarah? Where did she go? She was here ...
No. No. You haven't had any visitors.
That's a lie. My family was here.
I'm sorry.
Last night! They were as real as you are!
This is not a dream! This is my life.
Of course it is. What else could it be?
He's burning up.
Total delirium.
That's some gash. His guts keep spilling out.
Push 'em back.
Help me!
Throw that torch away, young man. Give yourself up. You're under arrest.
For what? For seeking the truth?
Please come quietly.
You come near me and I'll blow us all up.
We're not going to hurt you.
Clear the area. This is an order!
What is wrong with you?
Dream on!
What?!
He's burning up.
Total delirium.
He'll never make it.
That's some gash. His guts keep spilling out.
Push 'em back.
Help me!
Excuse me, do you know if we've passed Nostrand Avenue yet? Excuse me. Look, I'm asking a simple question. Have we hit Nostrand Avenue? I fell asleep.
I no from around here.
Yeah, you and everyone else.
How 'bout over there? No wait. Do me a favor. Bring 'em to the back room.
They're awfully heavy.
I know. That's why I'm asking.
Where's Wong?
That's what I'd like to know. If you see him on the street somewhere, tell him he's fired.
How was Palm Springs?
Hot. Where do I sign?
You got a nice tan, though.
Tan? What tan? It faded on the airplane. I'd try to get my money back, but who do you ask? Two hundred dollars a night, for what?
No. I'll take the other one. Right. Well it's good to have you back. See you tomorrow, probably.
If you're lucky.
Surprised, huh? I told you you'd know me. I've been tracking you for a long time. I just wish I'd spoken to you before tonight.
I don't get it. Who are you? Why have you been following me?
Observation, mainly. Clinical study. You were one of the survivors.
So first I'm arrested, right? Best LSD I ever made, right down the drain. I figure this is it, twenty years in the joint, if I'm lucky. That was '68.
Long time ago.
Next thing I know I'm on Rikers Island. Ever been there? Suddenly they take me from my cell to the visitors room with those bank teller windows, you know. Four army colonels, medals up their asses, are standing on the other side. They tell me if I'll come to Vietnam for two years, no action, mind you, just work in a lab, they'll drop all the charges and wipe the record clean. Well, I'd only been in jail for thirteen hours and I already knew that Nam couldn't be any worse.
Shows how much you knew.
No shit. They had me by the balls. Next thing I know I'm in Saigon ... in a secret lab synthesizing mind altering drugs. Not the street stuff mind you. They had us isolating special properties. The dark side, you know? They wanted a drug that increased aggressive tendencies.
Yeah, sure. We were losing the war.
Right. They were worried. They figured you guys were too soft. They wanted something to stir you up, tap into your anger, you know? And we did it. The most powerful thing I ever saw. Even a bad trip, and I had my share, never compared to the fury of the Ladder.
The Ladder?
That's what they called it. A fast trip right down the ladder. Right to the primal fear, the base anger. I'm tellin' you, it was powerful stuff. But I don't need to tell you. You know.
Anyway, this big offensive was coming up. Everyone knew it; Time Magazine, HuntleyBrinkley. And the brass was scared 'cause they knew we couldn't win. Morale was down. It was gettin' ugly in the States. Hell, you remember.
Like it was yesterday.
A couple days later they decided to use the Ladder, on one test battalion. Yours. Just in an infintessimal dose in the food supply, to prove its effectiveness in the field. They were sure your unit would have the highest kill ratio in the whole goddamn offensive. And you did, too. But not the way they tnought.
None of us can remember that night. I get flashes of it but they don't make sense. We saw shrinks for years. But nothing they did could ever touch it. What happened? Was there ever an offensive?
A couple of days later. It was fierce. You guys never saw it.
But there was an attack. I can still see them coming. There was a fight, wasn't there?
Yeah. But not with the Cong.
Who then?
I always suspected the effects might come back. That's why I had to follow you. I had a hell of a time getting hold of your records.
If you knew, why didn't you say anything?
The truth can kill, my friend. Five hundred men died out there. This isn't a story they'd ever want out. When Paul's car blew up I realized the scope of the thing. I knew they meant business.
So why tell me now?
Because I can get rid of the demons. I can block the Ladder. I have an antidote. We can kill them off, chemically speaking. They'll all disappear. It's chemistry, my friend. I know. I created it. Come with me. I can help.
You come here often?
Sometimes. When it's convenient.
How do I know this isn't just some kind of, you know, seduction or something?
Hey, I'm not the problem. You've got bigger problems than me.
I came up with the formula back in Nam but I never got a chance to use it.
Never?
I'd hoped I'd never have to. Just open your mouth and stick out your tongue.
What is it?
Don't worry. Take it. It'll free your head. Come on.
I don't know.
"Yea though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death I shall fear no evil," but no one ever said I wouldn't be shittin' in my pants every step of the way, huh? Stick out your tongue. That'a boy. Now why don't you just lie down and relax.
One drop?
It's strong stuff.
I think I'm falling asleep.
Pleasant dreams.
I can't move.
Just relax.
What's happening? Help me.
And no more demons. I told you they'd be gone.
I don't believe this. It's a miracle, Michael. A miracle.
Better living through chemistry, that's my motto.
It was paradise, Michael. You showed it to me. You were there.
Well that's good to know.
Mike, it was real. It was glorious.
Glorious. I'm not surprised. I fed you enough of that stuff to send a horse to heaven. I'm just glad you came back.
I would have stayed there if I could.
I'm sure. You've got nothing but troubles waitin' for you here.
Here. I've got every credit card ever printed. Take this. Stay here till you can arrange to get away. It's on me.
No. I couldn't.
What? You want the Plaza? Don't be foolish. Here. Take this, too. This is my place on Prince Street. It's got my phone, everything. Call if you need me ... but you won't. Everything's gonna work out. You just get outta town as fast as you can. The New York police can be effective when they want to be.
I don't know what to say.
Save the words ... Just send back my credit card.
Jake, is that you?
What the hell did you do, move all the furniture?
Why didn't you turn on the light?
I didn't want to wake you.
Gee, thanks a lot.
Where is the lamp?
Where are you?
If I knew I wouldn't have to ask. What did you do? I was happy the way it was.
I moved the couch. That's all.
Where to?
That help?
Thanks.
What do you think?
What do you mean?
The room!
Oh God, Jezzie, ask me tomorrow.
It is tomorrow. Four A.M. How come you're so late?
Roberts didn't show up. What could I say? Besides, it's double time.
What happened to you?
Don't ask.
You up?
No. Have you seen my glasses?
Where'd you leave 'em?
I don't know.
Did you look around the headboard?
Jezzie, I can't see.
Maybe you left 'em in the bathroom.
Thanks. What's that?
Your kid dropped it off.
Who? Jed?
No. The little one.
Eli. Why can't you remember their names?
They're weird names.
They're Biblical. They were prophets.
Well, personally, I never went for church names.
And where do you think Jezebel comes from?
I don't let anybody call me that.
You're a real heathen, you know that, Jezzie? Jesus, how did I ever get involved with such a ninny?
You sold your soul, remember? That's what you told me.
Yeah, but for what?
A good lay.
And look what I got.
The best.
I must have been out of my head.
Jake, you are never out of your head!
What's in here?
Pictures. Your wife was gonna toss 'em so "what's his name" brought 'em over on his way to school.
Look at these, will ya? I don't believe it. Jesus, these are fantastic. Look, here's my Dad ... And here's my brother, when we were down in Florida.
Lemme see.
Here. Look. This is me and Sarah when I was still at City College.
That's Sarah? I can see what you mean.
What?
Why you left.
What do you mean you can see?
Look at her face. A real bitch.
She looked good then.
Not to me.
Well, you didn't marry her.
Is that the one who died?
Gabe.
Wait. Don't.
I don't like things that make you cry.
I just want to look ...
Ready?
Just gettin' rid of the garbage.
Jake!
How's it going?
I'm going home.
What's wrong?
I don't know. One of these days, I'm gonna see Louis. My back's killing me.
Now? What about the boss? He's not gonna like it.
Well, I'll miss riding home with you. I was looking forward to it.
I'll be glad to avoid the crush.
I enjoy crushing into you.
Maybe it's all the pressure, Jake. The money. Things like that. Or your wife.
Why do you bring her up?
'Cause she's always on your mind.
When was the last time I said a word?
It has nothin' to do with talkin'.
It's still there, Jake. Even if you never say a word about it. You can't spend two years in Vietnam ...
What does that have to do with anything? Does it explain the barricaded subway stations? Does it explain those Godforsaken creatures?
New York is filled with creatures. Everywhere. And lots of stations are closed.
They're like demons, Jez.
Demons, Jake? Come on. They're winos and bag ladies. Low life. That's all they are. The streets are crawling with 'em. Don't make em into somethin' they're not. It's the pressure, honey. That's all it is.
Those guys tried to kill me tonight. They were aiming right at me.
Kids on a joy ride. Happens all the time.
They weren't human!
Come on. What were they, Jake?
You okay?
I wanna leave. Get me out of here.
Oh, come on. It's early.
Where are we?
We're at Della's.
Where?
What do you mean? Where do you think?
Where's Della? Bring her here?
Why? What for?
Show me Della!
Hey, I'm here.
Can't you stop it?
If I could stop it, I'd stop it.
What's it say? A hundred and two?
I don't believe this. I'm calling the doctor.
What does it say?
It's gone to the top.
How high is that?
The numbers stop at 107.
What the hell are you doin'?
Get your clothes off.
What are you talking about? I'm freezing.
Get your clothes off!
What'd the doctor say?
That you'd die on the way to the hospital. Now get into that tub.
He's coming right over.
Coming here?
Goddamn it. Get in here. I can't stand around waiting.
You're out of your mind. I'm not getting in there. I'd rather die.
That's your decision.
Look at me. I'm ice cold.
You're red hot, damn it. Get in there. I've got to get more ice.
I can't do it.
What kind of man are you?
Don't gimme that.
Lie down!
Jezzie! My feet are throbbing!
Sam, Tony, come in here.
Hey, I'm not dressed.
Help me! Help me!
Here. I'll do it.
Jake. You're gonna be all right, Jake. You're gonna be fine.
Am I home?
You're here. Home. The doctor said you're lucky your brains didn't boil. What a night, Jake. It was crazy. You kept sayin' "Sarah, close the window," over and over. And talkin' to your kids. Even the dead one. Weird. You know you melted 200 pounds of ice in 8 hours. Amazing, huh?
Are we in Brooklyn?
You're right here, Jake. You just rest. The doctor said you had a virus. That's what they say when they don't know what it is. You can't do anything for a week. He says you gotta recuperate. Now you just lie here. Mrs. Sandelman made you some chicken soup. It'll warm you up.
You know, you really ought to get out today. You can't just sit around like this all the time. It's not healthy. It's not good for your mind. Go take a walk, or somethin'. Go to a movie. Christ, who's gonna know? You think I care? I don't give a shit. Go. Enjoy yourself. One of us should be having a good time. Hello! Anybody home? Anybody in there?
What?
Look, I'm horny. Keep it in mind. Love me a little?
You are the most unbelievable woman I have ever met. One second you're a screaming banshee and the next you're Florence Nightingale. Who are you? That's what I want to know. Will the real Jezzie Pipkin please stand up.
So tell me ... am I still an angel?
With wings. You transport me, you know that? You carry me away.
We're all angels, you know ... ... and devils. It's just what you choose to see.
I love you, Jez.
I know.
Underneath all the bullshit, just love.
Remember that.
You know what? I feel ... exorcised ... like the demons are gone.
How come? The army?
In a way. At least now I have some idea of what was happening. If we can only get them to admit ... to explain what they did ... I don't know. Maybe it'd clear things up in my head. I'll tell you something, Jez, honestly ... I thought they were real.
I put a frozen dinner in the oven, a Manhandler. It'll be ready at a quarter of. I threw a little salad together. It's in the fridge. I also bought some apple juice, Red Cheek. Don't drink it all. Oh, and Jake, your lawyer called.
He did? When?
While you were in the shower.
Why didn't you call me?
He didn't give me a chance. Look, honey, don't get upset, but he's not taking your case.
What? What do you mean?
He said you didn't have one.
What's he talking about?
I don't know. That's all he said. He wasn't very friendly. Oh, yeah. He said your buddies backed down. They chickened out, he said.
I don't believe this.
Baby, I'm sorry. I feel terrible. I'd stay and talk but I'm so late. Look, don't be upset. We'll talk when I get home. See you around midnight. Bye. And don't brood. Watch T.V. or something.
It's just me.
Jezzie?
Who else were you expecting?
Let go!
Where were you, Jake? Where've you been? Why haven't you called?
Stay away from me, Jez.
I want to know. You tell me!
You wanna know? Turn on the T.V. Watch the fucking news!
Why are you doing this to me? You can't just go away like that.
I can do anything I want.
Don't!
It might be for me.
I'm not here. You haven't seen me.
Hello ... No. He's not here. I haven't seen him all night ... I don't know when ... What? Tell him what? Vietnam? ... What experiments?
Who was that?
A chemist. Part of a chemical warfare unit out of Saigon. He said he knows me and that I'll know him when I see him.
How?
I have no idea. I was right. There were experiments. I knew it. I knew it. My God.
How do you know he's telling the truth?
What are you doing here? Are you all right? How do you expect to pay for this? Everyone's looking for you, Jake. I dodged people all over the place, reporters, police. I don't know what you're gonna do.
I'm gonna make love to you. That's what I'm gonna do.
Are you out of your mind?
Yep. Finally. I love you, Jez.
God, I can't keep up with all your changes.
Me neither.
What's gotten into you?
It's amazing, you know, that a drug could change things like that, destroy a life and then give it back. It's hard to believe that the world could be so hellish on day and like heaven the next.
I tell you, it was so wonderful. I felt like a little boy. I saw Paradise, Jezzie.
It's so hard to believe.
This is one of my dreams, Jake. Ever since I was a little girl. I never thought it would happen.
Stick with me, kid.
I want to go with you, Jake. Wherever you go.
It's not practical, Jez. It'll be hard enough alone.
I can waitress. I'm good.
No. Things are too hot. Later. I'll send for you.
Bullshit!
I promise.
Please.
No. I'm a marked man, Jez. I'm the only one left. I don't want to expose you to that. It's not right for you or me. Be reasonable.
Reasonable? Reasonable? Jake ... You're gettin' me angry.
I love you when you're angry.
Oh yeah? Try leavin' without me.
What're you ... ? Where's Sarah? Where are the boys?
Sit down, Jake.
Where are they?
Sit down.
No! What's going on? Where's my family?
It's over, Jake. It's all over.
Where have they gone?
Wake up. Stop playing with yourself. It's finished.
What's going on?
Your capacity for selfdelusion is remarkable, Dr. Singer.
What's wrong, Jake? Forget to take your antidote?
Who are you? What are you doing to me?
You have quite a mind, Jake. I loved your friends. That chemist  the Ladder. What an imagination you have!
WHO ARE YOU?
How many times have you asked me that? How many times?
TELL ME, DAMN YOU!
YOU KNOW WHO I AM.
So tell me ... am I still an angel?
With wings. You transport me, you know that? You carry me away.
It's going to be all right, Jake. It's going to be all right. Don't be afraid. I've got you now.
Hold me, Jezzie. Hold me.
Why won't you answer me?
Cause you know goddamn well who I am.
I don't know you.
You've lived with me for two years.
That doesn't mean shit. Where do you come from, huh? And I don't mean Indiana.
What do you want me to say? My mother's tummy?
You know goddamn well what I mean.
You're out of your fucking mind. I'm not gonna stand around here gettin' interrogated by you.
Well leave then. Go to Hell.
You sonofabitch. Who do you think you are? I don't deserve this. Who takes care of you day and night? Who cleans the floor and washes your goddamn underwear? Well, I've had it. You flip out on your own, you ungrateful bastard. I'm done holding your hand. I don't want anything to do with you, you hear? Nothing!
What'd you do that for? It's an in teresting story. All these people are still disappearing. Right off the street. Hey, what's wrong? Are you all right?
I'm okay. I just don't want to lis ten.
You look upset.
I'm not upset.
Jake, what is it?
I'm tired.
You look terrible. What happened? Jake ... is it the antidote?
Goddamn it. Why do you say that?
Look at yourself. You look like you've seen a ghost.
Shit! Can't I just have a bad day?
You can have anything you want.
Then don't bug me.
I'm not bugging you. Come and lie down. I'll give you a massage. Where'd you go today?
Midtown mostly.
Oh yeah? What was happenin' there?
I picked up my ticket. I'm leaving in the morning, Jez.
Oh? Where you going?
West.
Where's West? New Jersey?
Don't be funny.
I always liked the West, west of Il linois anyway. But you gotta give me time to pack.
Stop it, Jez. Don't do that.
Do what? I haven't done a thing.
Don't play games with me. There's nothing more to say.
Where's Sarah? Where are the boys?
Sit down, Jake.
Where are they?
Sit down!
No! What's going on? Where's my family?
It's over, Jake. It's all over.
Where have they gone?
Wake up! Stop playing with yourself. It's finished.
This isn't happening.
Your capacity for selfdelusion is remarkable, Dr. Singer.
Oh God!
What's wrong, Jake? Forget to take your antidote?
Goddamn you!
I loved your chemist, Jake. The height of fantasy. And your vision of paradise. A most romantic creation. You're quite a dreamer, Jake. Only it's time to wake up.
WHO ARE YOU?
How many times have you asked me that? How many times?
TELL ME, DAMN YOU!
You know who I am.
My back. I can't move. I need my chiropractor.
Your back? Did you fall?
They stole it.
Who did?
I don't know. Santa Claus. I had my son's picture in it. Gabe's picture. It's the only one I had.
We better get an orthopedic man in here. Is Dr. Davis on call?
I'm going to have to move you a bit, just to check for injuries. This may hurt a little.
No. Don't move me.
I don't have to ask if you can feel that.
Goddamn it. I want Louis.
What was that?
It's freezing.
I'm not cold.
Of course not. You have all the blankets. It must be ten degrees in here. I'm telling you, Sarah, if you want to sleep with fresh air, you sleep on the fire escape. From now on that window is closed.
It's not healthy with it closed.
This is healthy? I'll probably die of pneumonia tomorrow and this is healthy.
What a dream I was having. I was living with another woman ... You know who it was?
I don't want to know.
Jezebel, from the post office. You remember, you met her that time at the Christmas party. I was living with her. God, it was a nightmare. There were all these demons and I was on fire. Only I was burning from ice.
Guilty thoughts. See what happens when you cheat on me, even in your mind?
She was good in bed, though.
Go to sleep.
She had these real beefy thighs. Delicious.
I thought you said it was a nightmare?
I'm not dead. I am not dead.
No. Of course you're not. You've just hurt your back. That's all. You're going to be fine. It'll just take some time.
Jacob, what can I do?
Save me!
I'd like to speak to Dr. Carlson, please.
Carlson? Is he new here?
New? He's been here for years.
Not according to my charts. Do you have an appointment?
Look, I need to see him. I know where his room is. Just give me a pass. I won't be long. Ten minutes.
Our doctors are seen by appointment only.
Damn it. I was in the veteran's out patient program. He knows me.
What's your name?
Jacob Singer.
I'm sorry but there's no record of a Jacob Singer in our files.
Whataya mean, no record?
You want me to spell it out? There's nothing here.
That's ridiculous. I've been coming here for years. Listen to me. I'm going out of my fucking mind here. I need to see him.
If this is an emergency we have a staff of psychiatric social workers. There's about an hour's wait. I'll be glad to take your name. Why don't you just fill out this form?
Goddamn it! I don't want a social worker. Carlson knows me.
Are you in the service?
The postal service. I'm a mailman.
Ah. Neither snow nor sleet, nor dark of night ... I always admired that.
It's good to see you.
Likewise.
And how is your wife? Sarah, no?
I haven't seen her in months.
Ah!
I'm with another woman now. We're both with the post office, Midtown, 34th Street branch.
Hmm. I don't suppose there are too many philosophers in the post office?
Oh, you'd be surprised. They just don't have their doctorates, that's all.
Last I heard you were offered a posi tion in the West somewhere. Tuscon was it?
Oh, that goes way back. They had a hiring freeze, one of those last min ute things. Bad timing for me though. Middle of the war. The draft. I'll tell you Prof, after Viet Nam ... I didn't want to think anymore. I decided my brain was just too small an organ to comprehend this chaos.
Jacob, if it was any other brain but yours, I might agree. Tell me, does your lady friend know what a brilliant thinker, what a sub lime intellect she's living with?
I doubt it's my mind that interests her. I tell you Prof, she's a fiery lady.
Well, try not to get burned. You have a great mind, Jacob. Don't let anyone tempt you away from it.
I've got a problem, Prof. More Augus tine than Kierkegaard, if you know what I mean. I need to know about ... demons.
Demons, Jacob? Why demons? Are you writing ... ?
No. I see them.
See them? What do you mean? Physically?
Yes.
I know very little about demons, Ja cob, fleshy ones anyway. I know them as literary figures, biblical ones ... Dante, Milton ... but Jacob, this is the 20th Century. We don't see demons now.
I see them, Prof. Everywhere. They're invading my life.
Christ, I know how it sounds.
Have you considered a doctor? A psy chiatrist?
Yes. I don't want them. I'm not looking for analysis or drugs. It's too easy to dismiss as some kind of psychosis. It's more than that. I can feel it. I need you Prof. You're the only one I can talk to.
I don't know what to say.
I need your insight, your intuition.
Demons? I don't know what to tell you. It sounds like a spiritual mat ter to me. The problem, Jacob, is that you have no context for it. You're a renegade Existentialist suf fering demons a hundred years after Freud. How the hell am I supposed to make it fit?
I'm afraid, Prof. Nothing makes sense. Please help me.
Jacob, I don't believe in demons, not in the empirical sense. I don't be lieve in devils fighting for our souls. I don't believe in enternal damnation. I don't believe in other worldly creatures tormenting us. We don't need them. We do a good enough job on ourselves.
But I see them.
Look. I don't pretend to know what's going on inside your head. For all I know it's pathological and they should be pumping Valium into your veins by the quart. But if you're not willing to accept the help of sci ence; and believe me, I admire you for that: then you'll have to do bat tle on your own. What can I say? It's a lonely pilgrimage through our times even for the strongest souls. But to be pursued by ... demons no less ... There are no guides, Jacob. You wanna know what I'd do if I sud denly started seeing demons? I'd hail the first taxi that came along, shoot over to Bellvue and beg them for shock treatment. I'm no saint.
Hell, you think I am?
I'venever understood you, you know that? You were by far the best pupil I've ever had, bar none. Intellectu ally, you were the most original, the most imaginative. Who knows, maybe you've been "elected" to see demons. Maybe you're in touch with ... some thing. Nothing would surprise me about you Jacob. Nothing.
Come on, Jake. That didn't hurt.
How do you know?
I know you. How come you're so tense today?
What can I tell you?
I saw Sarah the other day.
Her knee acting up?
A bit.
What did she have to say?
Turn on your right side. How about the other "right?" I don't understand you philosphers. You've got the whole world figured out but you can't remember the difference between right and left.
I was absent the day they taught that in school. What did she say?
Who?
Sarah.
Not much. She's like you that way. Two clams. No wonder your marriage didn't last. Put your hand under your head. Take a breath and then let it out.
Ah, good. Now turn to your left.
She talk about the boys?
She says she can't get them new coats because you haven't sent the alimony for three months.
She told you that? Did she tell you about the $2,000 I'm still paying for the orthodontist? I'll bet she didn't mention that.
She said you were a son of a bitch and she regrets the day she set eyes on you.
I thought you said she didn't say much.
She didn't. That's about all she said. Put your hand up. Good. I think she still loves you. Take a breath and let it out.
Loves me!? She hasn't said a kind word about me in years!
Right. She doesn't stop talking about you. You're always on her mind. That's love, Jake.
She hates me, Louis.
You should go back to her.
What? She threw me out, remember. She wanted some professor to carry her far away from Brooklyn. Only we didn't make it. She can't forgive me that she still lives in the same house she grew up in.
Her problem is that you spent eight years getting a PhD and then went to work for the post office.
What can I tell you, Louis? After Nam I didn't want to think anymore. I decided my brain was too small an organ to comprehend this chaos.
If it was any other brain but yours, I might agree. Relax, this is going to be strong.
I can't relax.
Wiggle your toes.
God almighty. What did you do to me?
I had to get in there. A deep adjustment. Rest a moment and let it set a bit.
I had this weird flash just then.
What?
I don't know. I've been having them recently. You know, you look like an angel, Louis, an overgrown cherub. Anyone ever tell you that?
Yeah. You. Every time I see you. No more Errol Flynn, okay? Your back won't take it. You tell your girl friend to calm down if she knows what's good for you.
Louis, you're a life saver.
I know.
Half an hour from now and you'll be walking out of here all by yourself. Mark my words. Well, you've done it to yourself this time, haven't you?
Am I dead, Louis? Am I dead?
From a slipped disc? That'd be a first.
I was in Hell. I've been there. It's horrible. I don't want to die, Louis.
Well, I'll see what I can do about it.
I've seen it. It's all pain.
You ever read Meister Eckart? How did you ever get your Doctorate without reading Eckart? Good. Okay, let's turn over gently. Right side.
Perfect. We got it. Okay. Let's just give it a little try. See if you can stand.
What? By myself?
You can do it. Come on. Easy. Just give it a try.
What are you doing?
There's something I've gotta take care of, Louis.
What are you talking about? You can barely stand.
I'm walking, aren't I?
Jake, you need to rest.
Not tonight, Louis. No more rest.
It's not worth goin' over again and again. Whatever happened, happened. It's over.
... I've seen them, too.
Shit!
Dr. Carlson's dead?
An explosion, just like Paul's.
Not me, buddy.
Okay, not you Rod. But the rest of us are flipping out for some goddamn reason. They're tryin' to kill us. Fuck it man, we need to find out what's going on.
Come on, Professor. The army's not gonna give you any answers. You'll be buttin' your head against a stone wall.
Maybe that's the only way to get through. Besides, six heads'll be better than one.
Not my head, buddy. Not me. I'm gettin' a headache just listenin' to you.
We should get ourselves a lawyer.
I say you should get a shrink.
What do you mean, demons?
He told me he was going to Hell.
He was scared. He saw these creatures coming out of the woodwork. They were tryin' to get him, he said.
How long had that been going on?
A couple of weeks, I think.
He say what they looked like?
No. Not really ...
Excuse me a minute. I'll be right back.
You think they're connected?
I think something's fucking connect ed. I mean, a car tried to run me over the other day. Doug too, right? We've got six guys here going fucking crazy.
Bullshit. Someone's covering somethin'. That was no accident.
Why do you say that?
Cars don't explode that way. Any simpleton knows that.
But the paper ...
That was set. I'm tellin' you.
What'd he say that for? What made him say that? Strange, huh? Strange.
What else did he say, Jake?
I'm sorry, Mr. Singer, but do you have any idea how many people come to me with the injustices of the world? It'd break your heart.
This isn't injustice, Mr. Geary. The army did something to us and we've got to find out what.
The army. The army. What is it with you guys? We're not talking about a trip to the library here. This is the United States Government for God's sake. This is red tape coming out of your ass. You know what I mean?
Exactly. And we need someone to cut through it. We hear you're the man.
Oh yeah? What am I  Perry Mason here?
Doctor. Ph.D.
Ah! I thought you were a mailman.
I am.
Then why aren't you teaching? Why aren't you in a university?
I'm too messed up to teach.
Ah! Well then, they're going to have to pay for that, aren't they?
Who's been talking to you? The army? Have they been talking to you, huh?
Nobody's been talking to nobody. You don't have a case, you hear me? It's pure and simple. Now leave me alone. Okay?
Listen, will you listen? They're trying to get me. They're comin' out of the walls. The army's done something to me. I need you.
You need ... a doctor.
A doctor? And what's he gonna do, tell me I'm crazy? They've fucked with my head. I've got to prove it. You've got to do something.
You mind? I'm eating, huh?
Something's going on here. You're not telling me something. What the hell's gotten into you?
I'll tell you what's gotten into me. I don't know you from Adam, right? You come to my office with this bizarro story and demand I look into it. Okay. I said I'd check it out and I did. Now I don't know what kind of fool you take me for, but you have used and abused me, and I don't like it.
Used you?
I talked to the Army's Bureau of Records. You've never even been to Viet Nam.
What the hell is that supposed to mean?
It means that you and your buddies are whacko, that you were discharged on psychological grounds after some war games in Thailand.
War games? Thailand? That's not true! How can you believe that? Can't you see what they're doing? It's all a lie. We were in Da Nang, for God's sake. You've got to believe me.
I don't have to do any such thing. I'm eating my lunch, okay?
Daddy, what was that noise?
Gabe? What are you doing ... ?
There was a bang.
It was the window.
It's cold.
Tell your mother.
Mom, it's ...
Wait ... Daddy.
Now what?
Don't go.
Don't go? I'm not going anywhere. I'm right here, Gabe. Come on, go back to sleep. You can still get a couple of hours.
What did he talk about when you guys went out? Did he say anything?
He was upset. He thought people were following him.
Hello.
Frank. It's Jake. Jacob SInger.
Listen, I just got a strange call from Geary. He said the guys backed down. What's he talking about?
That's right. We did.
What does that mean, Frank? I don't get it. Why?
It's hard to explain.
Well, try, huh.
I don't know if I can. It's just that war is war. Things happen.
Things happen? What the fuck are you talking about? They did something to us, Frank. We have to expose this.
There's nothing to expose.
Jesus Christ! Who's been talking to you? What's going on? How can you just turn away? What about the others?
They're not interested, Jake.
Shit! You know it's not half the case if I go it alone. We're all suffering the same symptoms, Frank. The army is to blame. They've done something to us. How can you not want to know?
Maybe it's not the army, Jake.
What do you mean?
Maybe there's a larger truth.
What are you talking about?
Maybe the demons are real.
Goddamn it. What kind of bullshit is that?
Listen, Jake. I gotta go.
What the hell? What kind of mumbo jumbo ... ?
I'm hanging up.
Hey, wait!
Don't bother to call again, okay?
You have an unusual hand.
I could have told you that.
You see this line here? It's your life line. Here's where you were born. And this is where you got married. You're a married man, huh? Oh oh. Nope. Divorce. See this split.
You know, you got a strange line here.
It's short, huh?
Short? It's ended.
Oh, terrific.
It's not funny. According to this ... you're already dead.
Just my luck.
Daddy!
Oh God!
You're hurting me!
Stop!!!!
Daddy. Let go.
What do you want from me?
LET GO!
By who? Why? Paul didn't have an enemy in the world.
How do you know?
Hey, you're talkin' about Paul. Who'd want to hurt him?
Something weird is going on here. What is it about us? Even in Nam it was always weird. Are we all crazy or something?
Yeah, ever since that ...
Grass never did that to me.
You know, I've been to three shrinks and a hypnotist. Nothing penetrates that night. Nothing.
Too late. I've tried. I think you're right, Jake. I'm game.
Me, too.
Dr. Singer. It's been a long time.
Hello, Sam.
Are you all right?
I'm okay.
Do you want some help? I can call upstairs.
No, don't. But thanks.
Go on Jake. She reads 'em like a book.
No, thanks.
It's fun.
Hiya Jake. That was some dance.
Della?
You want to see me? Well, here I am.
I see.
What do you want?
Just to see you. That's all.
Well, how do I look?
Like Della.
Get me out of here.
Where do you want to go?
Take me home.
Home? This is your home. You're dead.
Dead? No. I just hurt my back. I'm not dead.
What are you then?
I'm alive.
Then what are you doing here?
I don't know. I don't know. This isn't happening.
What isn't happening?
Let me out of here!
There is no out of here. You've been killed. Don't you remember?
Remember?
No! That was years ago! I've lived years since then.
It's all been a dream.
No! The army did this to me! They've done something to my brain. Jezzie! I want my boys! Sarah! I'm not dead! I want my family!
Dream on!
No! Oh God.
Cherry Bail Bonds.
Let me speak to Max Cherry.
He ain't here right now.
He leave town?
He's around.
Give me his home number.
I'll give you his beeper.
Get that for me, will ya baby?
You know it's for you.
Who is it?
It's Beaumont.
We're back.
'Ola!
Hey, hey, hey. I think somebody's got some new clothes.
We been shoppin'. Can't have my boy running around lookin' like a bum on the street.
Hahaha. I'm serious, you smoke too much of that shit. That shit robs you of your ambition.
Not if your ambition is to get high and watch TV.
Hello. Hey, Jackie... No, Jackie, I didn't get your message.
I was gonna tell you...
Hope you don't mind keeping him company.
No problem.
Try not to rip his clothes off 'em they're new.
How can I help you?
Where would you like me to put my ash?
That's Winston. He works here.
He's a big one. You two tight?
Yeah.
It was our idea to take the picture, wasn't it?
So, you want a tenthousand dollar bond. What've you got for collateral?
Gonna have to put up cash.
You have it with you?
It's in my bag.
You have cash. What do you need me for?
C'mon, you know how they do. Black man comes in with ten thousand, they wanna fuck with 'em. First off, they gonna wanna know where I got it. Second, they gonna keep a big chunk of it  start talkin' that court cost shit. Fuck that shit, Jack. I'll go through you.
Cost you a thousand for the bond.
I know that.
Who's it for? A relative?
Fella named Beaumont. They have him up at county. It started out drunk driving, but they wrote it up "possession of a concealed weapon." Dumb monkeyass had a pistol on him.
Ten thousand sounds high.
They ran his name and got a hit. He's been in before.
He takes off and I gotta go to Kentucky to bring him back, you pay the expenses.
You think you could do that?
What's his full name?
Beaumont. That's the only name I know.
Getting there.
You go wait in the car. Wait a minute.
Beaumont Livingston.
Livingston, huh?
On his prior, he served nine months, and he's working on four years' probation.
You don't say.
Do you know what he's on probation for?
Haven't a clue.
Possession of unregistered machine guns.
Will they consider this a violation of his probation?
They do consider this a violation of his probation. Your boy's looking at ten years, plus the concealed weapon.
Man, he won't like that. Beaumont don't got a doin' time disposition.
I need your name and address.
Ordell Robbie. ORDELL. ROBB IE. 1436 Florence Boulevard. Compton 90222.
House or apartment?
House.
Now I need you to count your money.
Across the street a Great Western. It goes in a trust account. You'll need to fill out an Application for Appearance Bond, an Indemnity Agreement, a Contingent Promissory Note. That's the one, if Beaumont skips and I go after him, you pay the expenses.
Beaumont ain't going nowhere. Where do I sign?
Hey, Max.
Yes.
I was wondering. What if before the court date gets here, Beaumont gets hit by a bus or something and dies. I get my money back, don't I?
Comfortable?
The door was opened, so I just came right in.
I can see that. Why?
I got some more business for ya.
Oh, yeah? What did he do?
She is an airline stewardess. Got caught coming back from Mexico with some blow. They set her bond this afternoon at ten thousand. Now, what I was thinkin', you could use the ten thousand you owe me from Beaumont and move it over on to the stewardess.
The bond for possession is only a thousand.
They fuckin' wit' her. They callin' it Possession with Intent. A black woman in her forties gets busted with less than two ounces on her, they call that shit Intent. Same shit happened to a movie star. It's Possession.
It still sounds high.
She had, I believe it was... fifty grand on her, too. There was a cop at the hearing. Young guy with L.A.P.D. wanted her bond set at twenty five thousand, saying there was a risk of flight. Jackie being a stewardess and all.
Before we start talking about stewardess, let's get Beaumont out of the way first.
Somebody already did.
What?
You didn't hear?
Hear what?
Somebody with a grudge blew Beaumont's brains out  hey, that rhymes  blew Beaumont's brains out.
Did the police contact you?
Very first motherfuckin' thing they did. They see I put up a big money bond on my boy, they start thinking with that wherethere'ssmokethere's fire logic. They roust my ass outta bed, ten o'clock in the morning. Fuckin' scare my woman, Sherona, half to death. She thought they were gonna take my ass away for sure.
The stewardess. Do you know her last name?
Brown, Jackie Brown.
What does she do for you?
Who says she does anything for me? She's my friend. When my friends get into trouble, I like to help 'em out.
Beaumont worked for you.
That's what the police thought. I told them I'm unemployed, how could I have anybody work for me? Now I bail out Jackie, I'm liable to have the police on me again, huh? Wanting to know was she doing things for me, was she bringing me that money!
Was she?
Is this, me and you, like a lawyer client relationship? The lawyer can't tell nothing he hears?
You're not my client until you get busted and I bond you out.
If there's no  what do you call it  confidentiality between us? Why would I tell you anything?
Cause you want me to know what a slick guy you are. You got stewardesses bringing you fifty grand.
Why would a stewardess bring me fifty grand?
You want me to speculate on what you do. I'd say you're in the drug business, except the money's moving in the wrong direction. Whatever you're into, you seem to be getting away with it, so more power to you. Okay you want another bond, and you want to move over the ten thousand you put down on Beaumont to the stewardess. That means paperwork. I have to get a death certificate, present it to the court, fill out a receipt for return of bond collateral, then type up another application. An indemnity agreement 
Jackie ain't got time for all that shit 
I'm telling you what I have to do. What you have to do, in case you forgot, is come up with premium of a thousand bucks.
I got it. I just don't got it on me.
Well, come back when you do, and I'll bond out the stewardess.
Man, you know I'm good for it. Thousand bucks ain't shit.
If I don't see it in front of me, you're right. It ain't shit.
Man, you need to look at this with a little compassion. Jackie ain't no criminal. She ain't used to this kinda treatment. I mean, gangsters don't give a fuck  but for the average citizen, coupla nights in County fuck with your mind.
Ordell, this isn't a bar, an you don't have a tab.
Just listen for a second. We got a fortyyearold, gainfully employed black woman, falsely accused 
Falsely accused? She didn't come back from Mexico with cocaine on her?
Falsely accused of Intent. If she had that shit  and mind you, I said "if"  it was just her shit to get high with.
Is white guilt supposed to make me forget I'm running a business?
Where is it?
Is that what I think it is?
What's up with this shit.
I think falling in live with movie stars is something that happens to a man as he gets older.
You know who this is?
Mister Robbie, isn't it? I have the ten thousand you put up. Isn't that why you called.
The bond collateral on Beaumont Livingston you moved over to cover Miss Brown, remember?
She got off, huh?
They decided to nofile. Tell me where you are and I'll bring you your money.
You still there?
Looky here, I know you helped her and I know you know what I want. Jackie can tell me any story come in that pretty head of hers. Long as at the end of that story, she hands over my money. She do that, we're still friends. Now, she don't wanna be my friend no more, tell her to think about ol' Louis. And if she tries to turn me in, I'll name her ass as my accessory. We'll go upstate together. Hand in handcuffed hand. Now that shit's a promise, understand what I'm sayin'? You tell her that, and I'll call you back.
What the fuck you doin' knockin on the door like the goddamn police? You lookin' to get shot?
I thought you might be asleep.
You keep fuckin' with me, you're gonna be asleep forever.
I'm alone.
Git your ass in here.
That's all?
I have a bond receipt for you to sign.
You know what the fuck I'm talkin' about. You talk to her?
She wants to give you your money. If she didn't, there'd be cops batter ramming the door right now.
How'd you find me?
Winston found you.
How the fuck did he find me?
That's what Winston does. He finds people who don't want to be found.
Well, bully for that nigga. You say she wants to give me the money, huh?
Uhhuh.
Well, give it to me then.
She wants to give it to you herself and collect her ten percent. She also wants to explain why she had to hold on to it.
I'd like to hear that too. Turn around and put your hands on your head.
Jackie didn't trust Melanie. She'd already tried to get Jackie to go in with her, split the half million amongst themselves. What she did was take quite a risk to see you get your money.
Lift up your pant leg. You help her?
All I did was walk out with it.
And you did that to protect my interest?
In a way, yes.
My ass be dumb, but I'm not a dumbass. Go sit over there on the couch.
This place stinks.
You get used to it after a while. Now tell me where my money's at.
My office.
And where's Jackie?
She's been there since Thursday night.
She wanted to see me, why wasn't she home?
She was afraid.
That I gotta see.
She still is. She doesn't want to get shot before she can tell you what happened.
Have her bring the money here.
It's in the safe. She can't get at it.
Call her, tell her the combination.
I'm telling you, you got her spooked. She won't leave there till you have your money and you're gone.
You expect me to just walk in there?
If she wanted to set you up, you'd be in custody right now. When you said you'd name her as an accessory she believed you. That scares her more than anything.
That's why she's givin' up my money huh? Not that bullshit about Melanie. I didn't trust her ass neither, but I knew how to handle her. She was my blondeheaded little surfer gal. I fuckin' told Louis he could've just given her a punch in the mouth, he didn't need to shoot her. She's at your office.
Uhhuh.
By herself. That big mandingo nigga Winston ain't there, is he?
She's all alone.
I call your office, she better answer the phone.
She will.
It's the next street.
I know where it is.
Turn left.
I know where to turn.
My money's in that office, right?
Uhhuh.
She starts givin' me some bullshit about it ain't there. It's somewhere else and we can go get it. I'm shootin' you in the head right then and there. Then I'm gonna shoot her in the kneecap, find out where my godamn money is. I go walkin' in there and that nigga Winston or anybody else is in there, you're the first man shot, understand what I'm sayin'?
Yeah.
Now, is there anything you want to tell me before we get out of this car?
No.
You sure?
Yes.
You better be, motherfucker.
I'm going out for a few hours.
Hold on a minute. Where you going?
I'm going to Del Amo, see a movie, get something to eat.
Watcha gonna see?
Whatever looks best and starts the soonest.
Have fun.
You're right, that was Ordell. You have time, you think you could find out for me where he's staying?
Cops can't locate him, huh?
They don't have your winning personality.
Sure thing. I don't have to know what I'm doing, long as you know.
I think I do. Is that good enough?
Thanks, Baby.
Who's your partner?
See, what did I tell you? Man in New York wants a 9 millimeter Smith and Wesson Model 5946. Why does he want it? It's the gun that nigga on "New York Undercover" uses. Because of that nigga, I can sell it to this nigga for twelvefifty.
What's your cost?
As low as two.
Are you serious?
That's what I been tellin' you. Start adding these motherfuckin' figures up, and you tell me this ain't a business to be in.
I got me five M60 machine guns. These came straight from the Gulf War. I sold me three of them so far, twenty grand a piece.
That's good money.
Louis, this is it, man. I'm gonna make me a million dollars out of this. I already got me a halfa million sittin' in Mexico. When I do this last delivery, I'm gonna make me another halfmillion.
Then what?
I get out. Spend the rest of my life spending.
I'm going to wait in the car.
Sure. We almost done, ain't we?
Take the keys, man. Listen to music.
Which one is for the car?
This one's for the ignition... ...but you gotta hit this thing to shut the alarm off and unlock the door.
What do I do?
You ain't got to do nothing. Just point at it and push the button. You'll hear the car go "bleep." That means the alarm's off and the doors are open.
Okay.
Now play the volume as loud as you want but don't touch my levels. I got them set just the way I want 'em.
Louis, my man. Watcha doin'?
Oh, I dunno. Watching TV.
Whatcha watchin'?
Nothin' really. Just kinda goin' back and forth. They had some black girl from some black show on Jay Leno. I watched that for a bit, but I kept flippin channels cause I didn't know who she was.
Guess where I am?
I dunno.
I know you don't know. I said guess.
The moon  I dunno
I'm talkin' to you from the comfy cozy interior of an Oldsmobile parked outside your nastyass welfare motel.
You're outside?
Uhhuh.
C'mon in.
Naw, man. I just told you, I'm comfortable. I ain't about to walk into that roach motel and get uncomfortable. You bring your ass out here.
I'm in my underwear.
Then put your goddam drawers on, and get your ass out here. I got somethin' to show you.
Who was that?
That was Beaumont.
Who was Beaumont?
An employee I had to let go.
What did he do?
He put himself in a situation where he was gonna have to do ten years in the penetentiary, that's what he did. And if you know Beaumont, you know there ain't no way in hell he can do no ten years. And if you know that, you know Beaumont's gonna go any goddam thing Beaumont can to keep from doin' those ten years including telling the Federal government everything they want to know about my ass. Now that, my friend, is a clear case of him or me. And you best believe it ain't gonna be me. You know what I'm sayin'? You gonna come in on this with me, you gotta be prepared to go all the way. I got me so far over a halfamillion dollars sittin' in lockboxes in a bank in Cabo San Lucas. Me and Mr. Walker make us one more delivery, I'm gonna have me over a million. You think I'm gonna let this little cheese eatin' nigga here fuck that up? Shit, you better think again. 'Fore I let this deal get fucked up, I'll shoot that nigga in the head, and ten niggas look just like em. Understand what I'm sayin'?
Yeah.
So we on the same page then?
I follow.
I didn't look like a bum.
But you did have a Salvation Army thing going.
How much is there?
Over halfmillion dollars worth of merchandise.
Can I ask you about Melanie?
Sure.
What's your relationship?
She one of the women I got set up. I got Melanie in Hermosa Beach. I rent Simone a small house in Compton, and about four blocks away I got me this nineteenyearold country girl named Sheronda. I found her waitin' for a bus two days outta Alabama, barefoot, country as a chicken coop. Took her to my house in Compton, told her it was Hollywood.
She believed you?
Hell, yeah. To her dumb country ass, Compton is Hollywood. Close as she's ever been, anyway.
If this is about you fucked Melanie, I don't give a damn. I ain't a fool. I leave you alone with a bitch like Melanie, you're gonna be fuckin' that twenty minutes after I'm out the door. So say "thank you" and I'll tell you, "you're welcome."
That's not what I meant when I asked did you trust her.
She tryin' to work your ass against me, ain't she?
Yep.
You didn't even hafta say it. I know the woman.
Well, why the fuck keep her around?
'Cause she my fine little surfer gal. She can't do me no harm. Fact she think she can play you against me shows how little she knows. You could teach that bitch for days how it is 'tween me an you, she never understand a damn word.
Why do you let someone know your business you can't trust?
I don't hafta trust her, I know her.
What does that mean?
You can't trust Melanie. But you can always trust Melanie to be Melanie.
I still don't understand why you keep her around.
I told you, man. She my fine little surfer gal.
Uhhuh.
Hang it up, she's on her way. You gotta listen to this. This involves you.
Well, you the one in motherfuckin' charge.
Well, she keeps saying 'in a minute.'
Go in there, snatch her by the hair, and drag her big ass out. This is my goddam money we're talking about. Get your ass out the door.
It's Louis.
Did you get it?
I got it. Listen, there's something else I have to tell you.
When I see you. Pick me up at Sam's. You count the money?
I haven't even looked at it yet, it's still in the shopping bag.
Melanie must be dyin' to see it. Louis.
That's what I got to talk to you about. You see, Melanie was giving me a hard time 
Not now, pick me up.
You keep drivin' down Ninth, to where they got all them car dealerships. We're gonna leave this heap in a parking lot and get one the cops don't know about. Hey, where's Melanie?
That's what I gotta tell you. She bugged me the whole time. Got pissy with me 'cause I wouldn't let her carry the bag. Started running her fuckin' mouth... I couldn't remember right away when we came out where the car was parked, so she got on me about that. "Is it this aisle Lou is, is it that one?" She was totally fuckin' with my nerves.
So what, you left her there.
I shot her.
You shot Melanie?
Twice. In the parking lot.
Couldn't talk to her?
You know how she is.
You couldn't just hit her?
Maybe... but at that moment... I dunno...
You shot her twice?
Uhhuh.
So you're sure she's dead.
Pretty sure.
Where did you shoot her?
In the chest and stomach.
Well, if you had to do it, you had to do it. What we don't want is that bitch surviving on us. Anybody but that woman.
Louis?
What?
Where's the rest of it?
How much it there?
Maybe forty, maybe not that much.
You said five hundred and fifty!
So you light, ain't you. You light about a halfamillion.
Look, that's the bag she came out with. She never even put her hand in it, and neither did I.
Came outta where?
The fitting room. It went down exactly the way it was supposed to.
How long was she in there?
Maybe a minute. She came right out.
Louis, You tellin' me the truth?
Look, I swear to fucking god, she came out with that bag and I took it from her.
Then what?
We went to the parking lot.
Where you shot her.
That's right.
You sure she ain't somewhere with a halfamillion dollars I worked my ass off to earn?
Fuck you for asking me that.
Pull the car over.
What'd you shoot her with?
It's in there.
Okay, so it was Jackie Brown.
If she's got it, why didn't she take it all?
'fore I blow that bitch's brains out, I'll ask her.
Maybe the Feds got it.
If there were nothin; in here but towels, maybe she didn't get a chance to take it from her suitcase and A.T.F. got it. But, she put these fuckin' books in here to trick our ass.
That's why I never checked it. The bag felt right.
Then she throws forty thousand in here, to rub the shit in my face, know what I'm saying? She wants me to know she ripped me off.
I don't know. Either she has it or the Feds.
Or... ...she gave it to somebody else first, before Melanie went in the dressing room.
Jesus Christ.
What?
You know who I saw in the dress department?
Tell me.
I didn't really think anything of it. No  I did wonder what he was doing there, but didn't think it had anything to do with us. You know like maybe he was there with his wife or girlfriend.
You gonna tell me who it was?
Max Cherry.
You see Max Cherry in the dress department. We're about to be handed halfamillion dollars  Man, look at me when I'm talking to you! And you don't think nothing of him being there!
Do Max Cherry and Jackie Brown know each other?
Hell, yes, they know each other. He bonded her out of county.
How am I supposed to know that?
You know the motherfucker's a bail bondsman, don't ya? You know every last one of them motherfuckers is crooked as hell?
Why should I think anything's weird, if I don't know nothin' about them knowing each other?
Man, I don't want to hear your fuckin' excuses!
I ain't givin' you fuckin' excuses, I'm givin' you reasons.
Oh, you gonna tell me the reason you lost all the goddam money I got in the world! Let me tell you the reason, motherfucker! The reason is, your ass ain't worth a shit no more!
It's boring, isn't it?
I can sit through it once.
He thinks he's Joe Gunn now.
I'm impressed. He knows a lot.
He's just repeating shit he overheard. He ain't any more a gun expert than I am.
Want a hit?
Sure.
When did you get out of jail?
Four days ago.
Where at?
Susanville.
How long?
Two months shy of four years.
Four years?
Uhhuh.
What for?
Bank robbery.
Really, I'm impressed.
Is it ready to go?
Yeah, there's another hit left.
You okay?
Yeah, I'm just gettin' old. I can't smoke or laugh now it seems without coughing.
Coughing opens up the capillaries. When you cough, you're getting air  in this case smoke  to parts of the lung that don't normally get used. Coughing's good  gets ya higher. My dad coughs when he smokes all the time.
Want a Metrix?
What's a Metrix?
It's like this major meal in a shake you drink instead of having a big meal.
It's a diet thing?
No, it's what body builders drink to beef up.
No thanks.
Which one?
The roller disco one.
Fourteen.
You're fourteen years old here?
Yeah.
I thought you were sixteen.
I was pretty much the same height now as I was then.
Were you a disco girl?
Noooo, I was a surfer girl. Besides, I was only fourteen. I couldn't go to discos.
So where did you go?
The beach. Or get high, drop acid at a friend's place. I was a K.L.O.S. girl. I hated disco.
That was taken at a place called "Flippers." It was in Hollywood. Were you in L.A. back then?
No.
Where were you?
Detroit.
With Ordell?
We had done time together already.
Were you a disco guy?
No.
C'mon, don't lie.
I don't like dancing.
Did you ever go I one?
I went to a few just to meet women. But I don't like to dance, and it's so fuckin; loud. During that whole scene I just drank in bars. Who didn't make the cut?
That's a picture of me in Japan.
You been to Japan?
I lived there for about nine months.
You lived in Japan, when?
About five years ago.
Who's arm is that?
That's the guy I lived with... his name was... Hirosh.
Must of made quite an impression.
I never got to know him, really. I couldn't speak Japanese, and his English was terrible. But I couldn't say anything, because his English was better than my Japanese.
That sounds like a problem.
Not really. We didn't have much to say to each other anyway. I never got to know him that well, but I knew enough to know I wasn't missing much. I keep that, because of all the fuckin' time I was there, that's the only picture I got of me in Japan. That's Japan.
Wanna fuck?
Sure.
Yeah, that really hit the spot.
Now that's over, let's get to know each other.
Is it dead?
Yeah.
Well, so far he is. But you have to admit he's not too bright.
I wouldn't go so far as to say that.
He killed a man worked for him the other night.
So what are you trying to tell me? I should get out of here?
That's not what I'm saying at all. You know where he went?
No.
He went to meet that stewardess.
Does that bother you?
Please.
You live with him.
I live here. He drops in and out. He tell you about that halfmillion dollars he's got in Mexico?
Uhhuh?
Course he did, he tells everybody who'll listen. That's what he's doin' with this stewardess. He's scheming how he can get it over here.
And your point is?
Let him and that stewardess get that money over here...
Uhhuh?
...and just take it from him.
We're leaving now!
All right already.
Jesus Christ, get a grip, Louis.
We shoulda been there already and we woulda been if it hadn't been for your fuckin' around!
That's a nice outfit on her. I'm gonna go over and look at this Michi Moon display.
Just stay right fuckin' here, all right?
Are you sweating?
What are you doin'?
I'm getting out of here. What do you think?
Lemme have the bag.
Fuck you. I can carry it.
Goddam you. Gimme that bag,
Watch it, dipshit. You wanna rip the fuckin' bag?
Gimme that bag before I knock you out and take it.
I'm carrying it.
Okay, you got it. Just take a chill pill, for christ sake.
Is it this aisle, Louis?
Yeah, down the end.
You sure?
Is it this aisle or the next one over?
This one.
You sure?
I mean it. Don't say one fuckin' word.
Okay, Louis.
How you doing, Ms. Jackie?
I was expecting you. Come in.
I got some vodka in the freezer.
Got some o.j.?
Yeah.
Well, then, why don't you be a good hostess and make me a screwdriver?
Sure.
For what?
Who you think got your ass outta jail?
The same guy who put me in, thanks a lot.
Hey, you get caught with blow, that's your business.
I'magine they asked who you givin' it to, too.
They asked.
And what was your answer?
I said I wanted to talk to a lawyer.
You positive about that? You weren't nervous and let something slip by mistake? If you did, I ain't mad, I just gotta know.
Beaumont Livingston.
I knew it.
And they asked if I knew Mr. Walker.
Yeah?
I didn't tell 'em anything.
This fella Beaumont, they say what happened to him?
They told me.
What do you think it is?
I think it's a gun pressing against my dick.
You thought right... Now take your hands from around my throat, nigga.
What the hell you doin'?
Shut your ass up and grab the wall!
Now, baby, that's got nothin' to do with you. I just carry that. You been listenin' to them cops too much.
The cops didn't try and strangle my ass.
Damn, Jackie, I was just playin' with you.
Well, I ain't playin with you. I'm gonna unload both these motherfuckers, you don't do what I tell you. Understand what I'm saying?
Baby, I ain't come here  She shoves both guns in Ordell's back.
I said, you understand what I'm saying
I understand woman, damn!
Go sit over in that chair.
I'm tellin' you, those cops been fuckin' wit your mind. They turn black against black, that's how they do.
Shut your raggedy ass up and sit down.
I just came here to talk.
Way I see it, me and you only got one thing to talk about. What you willing to do for me?
Let's get realistic, baby. Sooner or later they're gonna get around to offering me a plea deal, and you know that. That's why you came here to kill me.
Baby, I didn't 
It's okay. I forgive you. Now, let's say if I tell on you, I walk. And if I don't, I go to jail.
Yeah?
One hundred thousand put in an escrow account in my name, if I'm convicted up to a year, or put on probation. If I have to do more than a year, you pay another hundred thousand.
I got a problem...
All your money's in Mexico.
Yeah.
I been thinkin about that, too, and I got me a idea.
I'll talk to the cops tomorrow and tell you if it's on.
Talk to you tomorrow.
The Cockatoo Inn.
The Cockatoo Inn? Where's that?
It's right on Hawthorne Boulevard and Manhattan Beach Boulevard. It's red brick...
Oh, wait, you mean that place that has the big sign with a rooster on it?
It's a cockatoo.
I bet you come here on a Saturday night, you need nigga repellent keep 'em off your ass.
I do okay.
You a fine lookin' woman, Jackie. I bet you do a damn sight better than okay. You think anybody followed you?
I don't think so, but it don't really matter. They know I'm meeting you.
How the fuck they know that?
I told them.
You told em? You told em it's me?
They already know it's you.
Well, shit. That don't mean you gotta confirm it!
Look, the only way I can get permission to fly is if I agree to help them. Which is what I have to appear to be doing. So I give them something they already know. You.
Didja tell 'em anything else?
I told them you got a half a million dollars in Mexico, and you want me to bring it here.
You told them that?
It's true, isn't it?
What the fuck's that got to do with it?
They know I'm delivering for you. I mention the halfmillion  they don't give a fuck about that  They want you with guns. So I say, well, if you want proof he's getting paid for selling them, let me bring the money in.
What did they say?
...I make two deliveries. The first one with ten thousand, like a dry run. They watch it. See how it works. Then we do a second delivery, when I bring in the half mill.
Naw, naw, that's too much exposure. I ain't goin anywhere near that money.
You don't have to. I told 'em you're real careful. You never pick up money yourself. You always send someone, and I never know who it is.
That's a good idea.
If you just listen, you'll see it's a damn good idea. The first time I do it they're lurking about. They see me hand the ten thousand to someone.
Who?
I don't know. One of your friends.
A woman.
If you want.
Yeah, I think a woman.
The next trip, when I come with all the money, it'll look like I hand it to the same one I did before...
But you don't?
No, I give it to someone else first.
And they follow the wrong one thinkin' she's bringing it to me.
That's the idea.
So we need two people, two women.
Can you cover that?
I got the woman covered. Where you thinkin' about doin' this?
I was thinkin' the Del Amo Mall. In the food court.
I suppose you see a piece of this for yourself?
Well, it's my plan. We're in this together.
Yeah, but it's my money, and I don't need me a partner.
I ain't your partner, I'm your manager. I'm managing to get your money out of Mexico, into America, in your hands, and I'm managing to do all this under the nose of the cops. That makes me your manager, and managers get fifteen percent.
Managers get ten percent.
That's an agent. Manager's get fifteen percent.
I'll give ya ten.
Plus the same deal as before.
I can do that.
The money's in a Broadway shopping bag. I get some food, and sit down here in the food court. Then your girl comes  you got somebody yet?
Uhhuh.
Who?
What'd you care?
Look, it's my ass facin' the penitentiary. You send some hard headed roc whore, and she fucks things up.
I ain't gonna send no roc whore. The woman's cool, I promise.
Drink?
I need to talk to you alone.
I don't want no more fuckin' surprises. We do this the way I laid it out, or we don't do it at all.
What the hell you talkin' bout?
Sheronda passin' the money onto someone else, that's what the hell I'm talkin' 'bout.
How do you know she did that?
I was there, I saw her do it.
Well, you weren't supposed to be there.
I know, but I hung around, 'cause I figured you'd try an' pull some shit like this.
Now, hold on there. I ain't pullin' no shit. It's my money, I can do whatever the fuck I wanna do with it.
Not when it's my ass on the line you don't. We do this my way or fuck it.
Nicolet and Dargus stop me at the airport and mark the bills.
Man, I don't like that part.
It washes off. I tell them we're doing it the same way as before. They'll follow Sheronda. I hate the idea of leaving her for a fall.
She won't have no problems 'cause she don't know nothin'.
Are you sure she don't know about the money?
She don't know shit about the money.
What does she think she's gettin?
I told her this is a game us rich folks play, exchanging gifts. Like a scavenger hunt. She didn't know what that was neither. No answer?
No, you gonna give her a Robinson's/May bag this time?
Right, the one Simone gives me. Simone and I'll make the switch at Robinson's/May. She knows what I look like?
She saw you with Sheronda. So Simone goes to the dress department with her Robinson's/May bag.
Designer clothes.
She waits for you to go in the place where you try things on.
The fitting room. There's a sign over the door.
So you come out with her Robinson's/May bag, go meet Sheronda. Simone peeks out, waits for my man Louis here to give her a signal nobody's watchin'. She leaves the store, gets in her car  mission accomplished.
Where you gonna be during all this?
I'm gonna be sittin' at the titty bar In downtown L.A. till my man over here calls me and gives me the O.K. sign.
Who's paging you?
Ray, the A.T.F. guy.
That works on my nerves, you bein' so buddybuddy with him.
If I wasn't, this wouldn't work. Now once I deliver I'll have to trust you.
Well, I've been trusting you all this time, haven't I? We agreed on ten percent of what you bring in and that's what you gonna get.
And a hundred thousand if I go to jail.
We're partners, Baby, sorta. I ain't gonna screw you. You haven't told me where I put it for you.
Give it to the bail bondsman, Max Cherry. He'll take care of it.
Max Cherry? You and him friends now? You tell him about this shit?
He won't know where the money came from. Only that it's money.
Oh, hi.
Buy ya a beer?
I'm waiting for the phone.
Good luck. That guy's been in there since I got here.
Well, I guess I better look for another one, then. Thanks, anyway.
Sure.
Great... ...Wanda!
Killian's.
Better get me another Sam's. Join me in a Jaeger shot?
Uhuh.
Gimme one anyway.
How long you been with Ordell?
This time? Almost a year. I've known him forever.
What were you two fighting about?
He told me to go outside. "You may leave us now." It's all part of his pathetic attempt to be "the man." You know Mr. Walker don't you?
Mr. Walker's my buddy. Ask him about Ordell.
That coke was yours, wasn't it?
He said he didn't know about it.
You believe that? Yeah, well, I guess you have to trust him. I'd have second thoughts on that, but then I know 'em.
He killed a guy who works for him the other day.
Beaumont Livingston?
You already knew that?
Kinda.
So tell me. Having all that money in your flight bag  Is it tempting?
You think I'm kidding?
Dreaming.
You know how easy it would be? He won't be anywhere near that mall. Pull one more switch, up front. That's it. Halfamillion dollars. Need help?
Keep it between us girls?
What's that fucker ever done for us?
I don't think so, but thanks for the beer.
Jackie?
Hi, Melanie.
Are you getting that black suit?
Yeah, do you like it?
It looks good on you.
Do you got something for me?
You betcha.
I put a little cherry on top. You're right. What the hell he ever do for us?
Thanks.
Now be careful with that bag. You don't want it ripping open on you in the middle of the store.
Oh, Miss Brown?
Yeah?
And what would this be, Sweet and Low?
What the fuck is that shit?
I know what it looks like.
You planted that shit on me.
Look, that shit ain't mine.
It isn't enough for Trafficking, but how 'bout Posession with the Intent to Distribute?
We'll just be a minute.
Can I smoke?
Thanks for waiting, Jackie. Now tell me, what can we do for you?
I need permission to leave the country so I keep my job.
We can look into that.
I need it tomorrow. If I don't show up for work tomorrow, I'm fired.
You know what we want.
If I'm working, I can help you.
Oh, so now you know him?
You never asked me if I did or not.
No shit. You know how he makes his money?
He sells guns.
You ever see him sell guns?
No.
Then how do you know he sells guns?
He told me. Besides, why else would an A.T.F. man be after him?
How can you help us?
Short of wearing a wire, I'll do everything I can to help you throw his ass in jail. And in exchange for my help, I need permission to leave the country and immunity.
This is A.T.F. agent Ray Nicolet, Jackie Brown, Ordell Robbie money exchange trial run. It's three p.m., July 4th 1997. The location is the parking structure at LAX.
What are you doing?
I'm recording this.
I thought you were going to let this one through.
The envelope contains ten thousand dollars. The subject will be delivering the currency in a...
A Broadway shopping bag.
Ordell has a white guy working for him named Louis.
You two meet?
This afternoon before I came here. He was with Ordell at an apartment in Hermosa Beach. I don't know if he lives there, but I can find out.
You talk to him?
Not really.
His full name is Louis Gara. He just got out from serving four years in Susanville.
What for?
Bank robbery? Do you know what he does for Ordell?
I imagine shit needs to be done.
We've been following Mr. Gara, and he's definitely working for Ordell.
...Compton with a fiftysixyear old petty thief  woman named Simone Hawkins.
Ever meet her, or they talk about her?
Not yet.
Who's the other one?
White girl named Melanie Ralston. Another girlfriend of Ordell's.
What's her story?
It was her coke I got busted with. She knows everything, but she's not part of it, and she's pissed cause she's not part of it. Ordell wouldn't even let her stay at the meeting. She tried to talk me into ripping off Ordell.
And splittin' with her?
I'm sure that was the idea.
What did you say?
I smiled and walked away. She also told me Ordell killed Beaumont.
She told you that?
Uhhuh.
Was she there?
She didn't say.
But she mentioned Beaumont by name?
Uhhuh.
Well, this sounds like a lady I'd like to have a word with. So everything's set for tomorrow?
Right. Everything's the same, except one change...
You said that the last time.
Well, it's true, isn't it? After this is buttoned up we could meet someplace else. What do you think?
We could, if I'm not in jail.
Oh, that's taken care of. I called the State Attorney's Office. You were nofiled this morning in Circuit Court.
That's fifty thousand, huh? It doesn't look like that much.
I was told ten thousand in each pack.
You didn't count it?
I never have. It's not my money.
Ever been tempted?
What? To put one of these in my pocket?
Uhhuh.
If I did, I'd have to give you one, wouldn't I? Or we could take what we want. No one knows how much there is except us, right?
Yes. All those things are true.
After all, it don't belong to nobody, right?
That would be one point of view.
Yeah, well, it's not a point of view that A.T.F. shares. Once we make it evidence, it belongs to us. You are now officially out of trouble. Don't do nothing stupid, now.
How can I do anything if I'm being watched every second?
I'm glad you realize that. Saves me the trouble of pointing it out to you. Put this in your shopping bag. It's what I expect to find when I look in Sheronda's. Comprende?
Si.
I thought I did.
You didn't. I would think with all this on your mind, you'd wait till after.
I got there early. I've had my eye on this suit  Wait, let's start over. I got there early. The idea was to try on the suit, see if I liked it. If I did, get them to wrap it up, and change back into my uniform. That's what Sheronda's expecting me to wear. Go meet Sheronda, give her the bag with fifty thousand, and go home.
But you didn't do that.
Because I didn't have it. Ray, I swear, Melanie came in and grabbed it. And someone killed her for it.
Where's the bag she gave you?
She didn't give me one. I told you before, Melanie wasn't part of the plan. Ordell must of told her to do it. She bursts in, grabs the shopping bag, and takes off. What am I supposed to do, go after her? I'm in my fucking underwear. I had to get dressed before I could do anything. So I put this back on 'cause could put this on faster than I could my uniform.
You took the time to pay the saleswoman.
I had to. I was frantic. I didn't know what to do.
What did you do after that?
I went looking for you. I went straight to the bookstore, 'cause that's where you were last time, but you weren't there. How the hell else am I supposed to let anybody know what happened? You didn't tell me how to do that, did you? I knew I was under surveillance, so when I couldn't spot anybody, I started yelling.
There was a guy with Melanie?
Not in the fitting room.
We had our agent on you. She sees a blonde come out of the fitting room carrying a Robinson's/May bag and tussle with a toughlooking white guy. The white guy takes the shopping bag and they go.
This guy with Melanie, that was Louis Gara?
I didn't see him. I was in my underwear. If it was a white guy, it was probably Louis. He kill Melanie?
It's possible. You're saying you don't have any idea what happened to that fifty thousand?
I have no idea.
You'd take a polygraph on it?
If it'll make you happy.
I sure hope you haven't done anything dumb Jackie.
Louis Gara's dead. L.A.P.D. found him dead in a car on Ninth. And we've lost Ordell.
I thought you were watching him.
We were, and we lost him. He walked into a strip bar sometime around three thirty and never came out. The bar was on Ninth, less than a mile andahalf from where Louis was found dead. It looks like Louis's friend shot him twice at point blank range.
So what happens now?
We pick up Ordell. We've got three murders we can link him to. We have the storage unit where he keeps his guns, by tomorrow we'll have a search warrant to go in and get him. And we have you.
What about me?
What about you?
Do you think I took some of that money?
I have no evidence of your taking anything. You didn't pay for your snazzy new suit with marked bills; I was glad to see that. You've been helping us out, you gave us Melanie and Louis. Melanie had a packet of marked bills stuffed in her shorts when they found her, which goes a long way backing up your story.
He say we like the same thing as married.
Do you live together?
Most of the times.
Not every day?
Sometimes every day, for a while.
Then you don't see him for a few days?
Yes'm.
You know what's in the bag you're taking?
He say is a surprise.
Well, Sheronda, it was nice talking to you.
You tell those guys they'll have to do one helluva lot better than that before I'll even say 'hi' to them.
Well, that's the State's offer. If you plead to possession and tell L.A.P.D. what they want to know, your bond will be set at onethousand dollars. If you don't, L.A.P.D. will request one at twentyfive thousand based on your prior record and risk of flight. If you don't post it or don't know anyone who can, you'll spend six to eight weeks in County before your arraignment comes up.
Who's side are you on?
I beg your pardon?
What if I plead guilty?
And cooperate? You might get probation.
If I don't cooperate?
With the prior? You could get anywhere from a year to five depending on the judge. You want to think about it? You got two minutes before we're up.
I can give you a lift home if you'd like?
Okay.
Are you really a bail bondsman?
Who do you think I am?
I gave you my card there.
Can I see your I.D.?
You're serious?
Who put up my bond? Ordell?
In cash.
Can we stop for cigarettes?
Sure, ever been to the Riverbottom?
I don't think so.
It's okay. It's a cop hangout.
Couldn't we just stop at a seven eleven?
I thought you might want a drink?
I'd love one, but not there.
We could stop at the Hilton by the airport.
Is it dark?
It's kind of a sports bar
That doesn't sound dark.
Why does it need to be dark?
'Cause I look like I just got outta jail, that's why. You droppin' me off at home, right? There's a place by me.
Great.
You gain weight?
Ten pounds. I lose it and put it back on.
That's why I don't quit. If I can't fly anymore, I'm gonna have a bitch of a time gettin' my brand.
What's your brand?
Davidoffs. I get 'em in Mexico. They're hard to find here. I was locked up with the last two getting legal advice from a woman who was in for bustin' her boyfriend's head open with a baseball bat.
Was she helpful?
She was more helpful than the fuckin' Public Defender. I don't know  I guess what I need is a lawyer, find out what my options are.
You know, I figured out the other day I've written something like fifteen thousand bonds since I've been in the business. I'd say about eighty percent of them were at least drug related. If you want, I can help you look at your options.
You're not tired of it?
I am, as a matter of fact.
What have they told you?
So far I've been told I can cooperate and get probation, maybe. Or, I can stand mute and get as much as five years. Does that sound right?
I'd say if you're tried and found guilty you won't get more than a year and a day. That's State time. Prison.
Shit.
But they won't want to take you to trial. They'll offer you simple Possession, a few months of County time, and a year or two probation. How 'bout another?
Sure.
You know who put the dope in your bag?
Yeah, but that's not what this was about. They were fuckin waitin' for my ass. They knew I had that money, they even knew the amount. The one who searched my bag, from L.A.P.D., Dargus, hardly even looked at it. "Oh, I'd say there's fifty thousand here. What would you say?" But all they could do was threaten me and hand me over to Customs, and I could tell they didn't want to do that.
They wanted you to tell them what you know.
I had 'em too. I burnt those two Starky and Hutch motherfuckers down. Then their asses lucked out and found that coke.
What did they want to know?
Who gave me the money and who I was giving it to. And some guy they found in a trunk with his head blown off. Said it was him who told them 'bout me.
That would be Beaumont Livingston.
That's him. How do you know 'em?
I wrote him on Monday. They found him dead on Tuesday.
Ordell pick up his bond?
Same as you. Ten thousand.
The federal agent kinda half hinted Ordell might of done Beaumont.
You mentioned a guy from L.A.P.D., but you didn't mention the Federal.
I didn't?
No, you didn't. What branch?
Ray Nicolet with Alcohol, Tobacco, and Firearms.
He's the one who wants you.
It was the other guy who busted me.
'Cause if he busted you, you'd play hell bonding out of federal court. He doesn't want you mad at him, he wants you to tell him what you know. He uses you to get a line on Ordell, make a case, then take him federal. You know what Ordell's into?
I have a pretty good idea. Ordell ain't no bootlegger and I doubt he's smugglin' Cuban cigars. So that only leaves one thing an A.T.F. man would be interested in.
I used to bring over ten thousand at a time. That's the legal limit, so I never brought more than that.
How many trips did you make?
With ten thousand? Nine.
He's got that kinda money?
It's all in lock boxes in a Mexico bank. But he's got a problem. He's  what do you call it when you got money, but don't have cash?
Cash poor?
That's it. He's cash poor. He kept on me till I finally said okay. I'll bring whatever fits in a nineby twelve envelope. I got paid five hundred dollars, and his friend, Mr. Walker, in Mexico gave me the envelope.
If you knew bringing anything over ten thousand was against the law, why not pack a hundred grand?
Whatever it was had to fit in my bag and not hit you in the face if the bag was opened. This ain't solvin' my problem. I gotta figure out a way to either keep my job or get out of trouble. I'm off today, but if I can't leave the country I'm out of a job. And if I don't got a job, I can't hire a lawyer.
Ask A.T.F. They might give you permission.
Yeah, if I cooperate.
Well, Jackie, you got caught, you're gonna have to give 'em something.
But if all I can give 'em is Ordell's name  I don't really know shit about what he does or how he does it  That don't give me much to bargain with.
Give 'em what you got. Offer to help. Show a willingness to be helpful. You want to stay out of jail, don't you?
What'dya think?
I think maybe I have more options than I thought.
If you're having some.
I am. Have a seat.
You get a chance to use it?
I felt a lot safer having it. My milk went bad when I was in jail.
Black's fine.
Thanks, but I have my own now.
You went out this morning and bought a gun?
What, I couldn't hear you?
You went out this morning and bought a gun.
Somebody loan it to you?
Yeah.
Want to hear some music?
Sure.
I couldn't wait till I got home last night and wash my hair.
It looks nice.
You never got into the whole CD revolution?
I got a few. But I can't afford to start all over again. I got too much time and money invested in my records.
This is pretty.
Uhhuh.
Who is this?
The Delfonics.
'76?
'74, I think.
It's nice.
I called in sick this morning. As far as the airline knows, I'm still available.
Are you?
I don't know yet. I'm going to talk with Dargus and Nicolet today. Do what you suggested. Offer to help and see what happens.
What I meant was have a lawyer do the negotiating for you.
I want to talk to them first. I know more now about Ordell's money.
Well, if the A.T.F. guy is the one who wants you, that'll only interest him up to a point.
It's a lot of money. About a halfa million dollars. All of it in Cabo in safe deposit boxes and more comin' in.
How'd you find that out?
He told me last night.
He called you?
He came by.
What?... What'd you do?
We talked.
He had his doubts at first. But he's always trusted me an wants more than anything to believe he still can.
Why?
He needs me. Without me all that money is just gonna sit over there in Cabo. Sugar?
No thanks. There's gotta be other ways to get it out.
How do you get it out?
Same way I been doin', but first they got to let me go back to work.
You're gonna offer to set him up?
If I get let off. Otherwise, fuck 'em.
It's very possible Ordell's killed somebody.
I ain't goin' to jail, and I ain't doin' that probation thing again.
How do you feel about getting old?
You're not old. You look great.
I'm asking how you feel. Does it bother you?
It's not really something I think about.
Really?
Okay, I'm a little sensitive about my hair. It started falling out ten years ago. So I did something about it.
How'd you feel about it?
I'm fine with it, or I wouldn't of done it, I did it to feel better about myself, and I do. When I look in the mirror it looks like me.
It's different with men.
You know, I can't really feel too sorry for you in that department.
My ass ain't the same.
Bigger?
Yeah.
Does something else worry you?
I just feel like I'm always starting over. You said how many bonds you wrote?
Fifteen thousand.
Well, I've flown seven million miles. And I've been waitin' on people almost twenty years. The best job I could get after my bust was Cabo Air, which is about the worst job you can get in this industry. I make about sixteen thousand, with retirement benefits, ain't worth a damn. And now with this arrest hanging over my head, I'm scared. If I lose my job I gotta start all over again, but I got nothin' to start over with. I'll be stuck with whatever I can get. And that scares me more than Ordell.
Well, hello.
Surprise.
I walked right past you.
I know, ignoring me. What're you up to?
Catching a movie.
What'd ya see?
"American President"
How was it?
Pretty good. Me and Annette Bening are goin steady.
Oh, are you? Does she know that?
No... ...I don't believe she's ever heard of me. But that doesn't mean we're not going steady.
Does it happen to all men?
Well, I'd never be so bold as to speak for all men, but as or myself and a few of my friends, that's definitely the case. There's a lot of actresses out there you like, and there's some you have crushes on. But there's always one who you love. And with her it's sorta like going steady.
And Annette's it for you?
For now. These relationships never last too long.
Who was your girl before Annette?
Sandra Bullock. You know her?
Yeah, she's the girl who drove the bus in "Speed." She's cute.
She's adorable. But I had to end it.
Why?
I'm old enough to be her father.
How old's Annette?
I don't care.
What're you, a bag lady?
I go back to work tomorrow.
You talk them into it?
They seem to like the idea.
Bring the money in and they follow it?
Yea, but I'm going to dress it up. Put the money in a shopping bag and hand it to someone I meet here.
You don't actually do it that way?
He always just picked it up at my place. But with A.T.F. involved, I want to stage it. You know, make it look more intriguing, like we know what the fuck we're doin'. Then it's up to Ray Nicolet, the A.T.F. guy to follow the shopping bag.
Make the delivery somewhere in the mall.
Right around here, in the food court.
Sit down, leave the bag under the table?
Will Ordell go for that?
I'm helping him bring his money into America. He loves the idea. You just missed him.
He was here?
Yeah, we were goin' over everything. That's why all the bags.
I called you last night.
I know, I got your message. Ray wanted to have dinner. He wanted to talk about the sting we're plotting. That's what he calls it. A sting. He's being real nice to me.
You think he's got a thing for you?
Maybe. But I'm thinking it might be something like he wants the money for himself.
I don't follow your logic. What does his being nice to you have to do with him wanting Ordell's money?
He's setting me up to make a proposition.
I see.
You don't propose something like that unless you're pretty sure the other person's into it.
Has he hinted around?
Not really. But I knew this narcotics cop one time. Told me that in a raid, the whole package never gets back to the station. His exact words.
You know some interesting people.
He weren't bullshittin' either, 'cause later he was suspended and forced to retire.
Has Nicolet told you any colorful stories like that?
He tries to act cool.
No harm in that. He's a young guy havin' fun being a cop. I know the type, trust me on this. He's more interested in Ordell than the money. If he's gonna do anything suspect, it'll be cutting corners to get the conviction; but he wouldn't walk off with the money. It's evidence.
What about you Max?
What? If I was in Nicolet's place?
No, I mean you, right now. Not it you were somebody else.
If I saw a way to walk off with a shopping bag full of money, would I take it?
You know where it came from. It's not like it's anybody's life savings. It wouldn't even be missed.
A halfamillion dollars will always be missed.
You're avoiding the question.
Okay, sure. I might be tempted. Especially now, since I'm getting out of the bail bonds business.
I have to stand behind all my active bonds, but I'm not writing any new ones.
Why?
A lot of reasons. But the main one would be I'm tired of it.
When did you decide?
It's been a long time coming. I finally made up my mind  I guess it was Thursday.
Hi, I'm Max Cherry. Your bail bondsman.
The day you got me out of jail?
Yeah, that night I went to pick up a guy. I hear he's staying at this house, so I sneak in, wait for him to come home.
Wait a minute. After we were together you went and snuck into a guy's house?
Uhhuh.
Got another gun and a stun gun...
And went to this guy's house in El Monte, and I waited for him.
What do you do when he comes home?
Shoot him with the stun gun. While he's incapacitated, cuff him, take 'em to County.
You do that?
That's my job.
Did you do it that night?
He never came home. But I'm sitting on the couch, in the dark, holding my stun gun and the whole house smells of mildew  So after a couple hours I think, "What am I doing here? Nineteen years of this shit? So I made up my mind, that's it.
And is that it?
More or less.
I'm not sure you answered my question.
Which one?
If you had a chance, unemployed now, to walk off with a halfmillion dollars, would you take it?
I believe I said I'd be tempted.
Don't even think about it. You could get yourself killed go to prison...
What if I've figured a way?
The feds. It's evidence.
It may be evidence once they get their hands on it, but right now it's only money.
You're rationalizing.
That's what you do to go through with the shit you start. You rationalize. I can do this, Max, I know I can. But I can't do it without you.
I told them Ordell's changed the amount he's bringing in.
Do you think they bought it?
Oh, yeah. I got them thinking Ordell's real nervous. They love thinking he's scared of them.
You know, a good cop won't let you know he knows you're fulla shit.
All he needed was a reasonable explanation.
It'll be more than that.
Don't be so literal. Ray believed it.
But you still have to show him the money at the airport.
Well, you know I'm not going to show him the whole amount. He'll see fifty thousand.
Where's the rest of it?
In the bag underneath.
What if he checks it?
He won't  I mean, he didn't the last time. He'll be expecting fifty thousand and there it is  on top.
You're takin' a helluva chance kid.
Not really. If he finds it, I say Mr. Walker put the money in, and I didn't know nothing about it. Like the coke.
Then you're out and you get nothing.
Yeah, but I'm not in jail and I tried.
You're gonna have surveillance all over you.
That's why you don't make a move till I come out of the fitting room.
In a dress.
Well, a suit. There's one I had my eye on.
How'd you find out?
All Winston had to do was ask around. Ordell's living in Long Beach with a woman junkie.
How does Winston find him if A.T.F. and all the local Police can't?
People talk to Winston. He's street, same as them, they trust him. They get busted, they know somebody who can bond them out. I thought I might drop in on him. He'll no doubt be surprised to see me.
He's liable to shoot you.
On the phone I told him I have the ten thousand he put up for your bond. I could bring the money and the papers for him to sign. Walk out and call the Sheriff's department.
Ray wants him.
Everybody wants him, he's a homicide suspect. It doesn't matter who brings him in, he's gonna name you as an accessory.
That's why A.T.F.'s gotta make the case. I'm their witness. They wouldn't have a case without me. If it's his word against mine, who are they gonna believe?
It's not that simple.
It never was, so I'm not gonna start worrying about it now. Look, Ray more or less believes my story, and he more or less doesn't care. All he really gives a shit about is getting Ordell.
So how do we give Ordell to Nicolet?
Get Ordell to come to your office.
Set him up.
Uhhuh.
Tell him you want to see him?
Tell him I want to give him his money.
Why?
I've chickened out. I'm afraid of him. He'll like that.
What do you tell Nicolet?
Ordell called and wants to meet me and I'm scared.
We get Ordell to come to my office. Nicolet  is he already there, or does he come busting in while we're chatting?
He's already there.
What if he hears something he's not supposed to?
Well, we don't let that happen, now do we?
I got your package. It was fun getting a halfamillion dollars in the mail.
Less ten percent.
Yeah, your fee. I had to figure that out, since there wasn't no note.
Only this isn't a bail bond, Max.
I hesitated taking that much.
You worked for it  if you're sure that's all you want.
I'm sure.
I saw Ray the other day. Boy is he pissed he missed all the excitement.
What's he doing?
He's on to a new thing. He's after a guy who owns a gun shop he says is "woefully and wantonly" selling assault rifles to minors. He says he's gonna take him down if it's the last thing he does.
Did you tell him you were leaving?
I told him I might.
That's Ordell's.
They've confiscated all his other stuff. But this one's sorta left over. The registration's in the glove box, the keys were under the seat... What's a matter, haven't you ever borrowed someone's car?
Not after they're dead.
I didn't use you, Max.
I didn't say you did.
I never lied to you.
I know.
We're partners.
I'm fiftyfiveyears old. I can't blame anybody for anything I do.
Do you blame yourself for helping me?
I'd feel a whole lot better if you took some more money.
You'll get over that.
Where're you going?
Spain.
Madrid or Barcelona?
Start off in Madrid. Ever been there?
Wanna go?
Thanks, but you have a good time.
Sure I can't twist your arm?
Thank you for saying that, but no. My business.
I thought you were tired of your business?
I'm just tired in general.
Are you scared of me?
Hi, I'm Detective Mark Dargus. L.A.P.D. can I ask what you have in that bag?
The usual things. I'm a flight attendant with Cabo Air.
I doubt it. Who's your friend?
This is Special Agent Ray Nicolet with Alcohol, Tobacco, and Firearms. Would you mind if we looked in that bag?
Would I mind? Do I have a choice?
You have the right to say "no." And I have the right to make you wait here with Ray while I go get a warrant. And if I don't want to go through all that trouble, I could just take you in on suspicion.
Suspicion of what?
This is your money?
If I were to tell you "no it isn't..."
You should know if you bring in anything over ten thousand you have to declare it. You forgot or what? You could get a two hundred and fifty thousand dollar fine, plus two years in prison. Now you want to talk to us about it, or you want to talk to Customs?
I'm not saying another word.
Hey, this is my office. There's no smoking.
Arrest me.
I'm not a loser.
Oh, you're both? In 1985 you were flying for TWA and got busted for carrying drugs. You were carrying them for a pilot husband of yours. He did time and you got off. But that ended your career with the big airlines. Cut to thirteen years later. You're fortyfour years of age. You're flying for the shittiest little shuttlefucking piece of shit Mexican airline that there is. Where you make a whopping twelvethousand dollars a year. That ain't a hulluva lot to show for a twenty year career. And to top it off, you're going to jail. Now true, the judge, even with your prior, will probably only give you a year or two. But this doesn't seem like the time of life you got years to throw away. Now, we don't like trying losers like they're criminals. But in the absence of a criminal, we will try you. Now, wasn't this money given to you by an American living in Mexico by the name of Cedric Walker?
Help yourself.
While you're at it, let me see what else is in there. You mind?
My pocketbook.
What's in it?
Beauty products.
What's this?
That's my diet shit.
Oh, I wouldn't be so sure. What with all the cash, I think I could go with Conspiracy to Traffic.
I'm tellin' you, I don't know nothin' about that fuckin' shit.
Let me have a word outside with Agent Nicolet for a moment?
Take your time.
Thanks.
Help us do what?
Help you get Ordell Robbie.
But now you're telling us now you do.
'Course I do  I deliver money for him.
You don't want much, do you?
Can you do it or not?
How was your flight?
Fine.
Bet you're happy to be working again.
Four thirty. I'm meeting a woman.
What's her name?
He wouldn't say. You gonna follow her?
She leaves, somebody'll be on her.
But you're not going to stop her?
I'd say there's about, oh, fifty thousand dollars here. What would you say Ray?
That looks like fifty thousand dollars from here.
You got a good lawyer?
Can she afford a good one is the question. Otherwise she'll be in Sybill Brand three weeks easy before the Public Defender gets around to her.
Ever heard of a fella named Beaumont Livingston?
Great, you're here.
Hey, Jackie.
What's going on?
She wants to make a deal.
She sound scared?
She almost sounds scared.
What's she want?
She wants to go back to work.
What's she willing to give us?
She hasn't one into specifics yet, she's been waiting for you.
She knows it's my case?
She ain't said it, but she's not stupid, she knows it's you who wants her.
We are. Don't worry about it.
Every step of this goes in my report. I am now taking a manila envelope from the subject's flight bag.
The envelope contains currency... all the same denomination, onehundred dollar bills. Now, I'm counting it.
What time do you have to be there?
Can I have a word with you?
Sure.
Does he have the marked bills on him?
In his inside coat pocket.
Why were you with him?
I went to give him his refund, so he wouldn't have to come here.
How'd you know where he was?
I found out.
And you didn't tell the Police?
I told Jackie, and Jackie said you wanted him.
What the fuck can I say? I'm serious, man. What the fuck can I say? Thank you... thank you... thank you.
Who was there for your ass?
You were there for me.
Who?
You.
You see, it works like this. You get your ass in trouble, I get your ass out. That's my job. And I don't mind tellin ya, nigga, it's steady work.
I'm still scared as a motherfucker, Ordell. They talkin' like they serious 'bout me doin' that machine gun time.
Naw, man. They just tryin' to put a fright in your ass.
If that's what they want to do, they're doin' it.
How old is that machine gun shit?
Three years.
Three years. That crime's old, man. They ain't got room in prison for all the motherfuckers out there killin' people. How they gonna find room for you?
That's not what they're tellin' me.
That's why they call it "fuckin' with ya." Now you wanna hear how we retaliate?
Hey, c'mon in, man. I was just  you know  smokin' a fatty, watchin' TV.
Naw, man. I gotta be someplace. I was kinda hopin you could come with me.
What'd ya mean?
Look, I hate to be the kinda nigga, does a nigga a favor  then BAM  hits a nigga up for a favor in return. But I'm afraid I gotta be that kinda nigga.
What?
I need a favor.
That requires me goin' out tonight?
A bit.
Aaaaawww man, I wasn't plannin' on goin' no place. It's twelve o'clock, man. I'm home, I'm high 
Why the fuck you at home? Cause I spent ten thousand dollars gittin' your ass home. Look, I gotta problem. I need help, and you can help me.
What's the problem?
Well, it ain't so much a problem a a situation. Remember I sold those three M60 machine guns outta the five I got?
Uhhuh.
I'm gonna sell the other two tonight. This group of Koreans in Koreatown have started a Neighborhood Watch kinda thing. And they want a few weapons so the neighborhood niggas know they mean business. So I'm gonna sell 'em my two machine guns tonight. Only problem, I ain't never dealt with these Koreans before. Now I ain't worried. Asians are by and large real dependable. They don't want no trouble. You might argue about price, but you ain't gotta worry about them shootin' you in the back. But I got me kind of a rule. Never do business with nobody you ain't never done business with before without backup. That's why I need you, backup.
Man, I ain't ready to be goin' out nowhere 
Let me finish. Can I finish?
Go ahead.
Fuck that shit, man. I ain't shootin' anybody.
What the fuck I tell you. You don't hafta shoot nobody. Just hold the gun. They'll get the idea.
I ain't gittin' in that trunk.
We're only goin' to Koreatown. You'll be in there  ten minutes.
Uhuh. I ain't riding in that trunk no minutes. Why don't I just ride with you?
You can't ride with me. The surprise effect is ninety percent of it.
Well, I'm sorry, man, but I ain't gittin' in that trunk.
I can't believe you do me this way.
I ain't doin' you no way. I just ain't climbin' in that trunk. I got a problem with small places.
Well, my ass has got a problem spending ten thousand dollars of my own goddam money to get ungrateful, peanuthead niggas outta jail, but I do it 
Look, man, I know I owe you 
Well, if you owe me, git your ass in the trunk.
I wanna help you, but I don't wanna be locked in the trunk of no car.
You think I wanted to spend ten thousand dollars on your ass?
Answer the question, nigga. Do you think I wanted to spend the thousand dollars on your ass? Yes or no?
Course you didn't.
But the only way to help you was to do that, so I did it. Okay, how 'bout this? After we're through fuckin' with these Koreans, I take you to Roscoe's Chicken and Waffles. My treat.
Tomorrow I'll talk to your probation officer. Karen's a good kid, but she's mad at you, because you lied to her. This business about your grandmother's funeral
I went. I did. I took my mother and little brother.
But you didn't ask permission. You broke a trust. If you had asked, Karen probably would have let you. I'm sure she would.
I know. That's why I went.
But then you told her you were home.
Sure, 'cause I didn't ask her if I could go.
I don't know. Maybe it's a language problem. Anita, you ever cause this much heartache over something that could easily be avoided, I'll never write you again. You understand?
I understand.
I mean it. I don't care how many times your mother calls or how much she cries.
I understand.
Then say "Yes, Max. I understand."
Yes, Max, I understand.
So you're gonna call Karen tomorrow?
I'll call her.
Won't forget?
I won't forget.
Can I help you?
Yes, you have a suit I've had my eye on.
This looks pretty good on me.
Are you kidding, it looks great. You wear this to a business meeting, you're the badass in the room. But you can go out dancing in this too. It's a total power suit.
I think I'm gonna just get this for today. I'm in kind of a hurry. Would you mind ringing this up while I change out of it?
Not a problem.
Thanks.
I'm sorry, I just decided to stay in the suit  get out of that damn uniform.
Oh, that's not a problem.
Then do you understand that I cannot tell the truth here? In Dallas. That there are people here who do not want me to tell the truth... who do not want me to have a retrial?
Mr. Ruby, I really can't see why you can't tell us now.
When are you going back to Washington, sir?
I am going back very shortly after we finish this hearing  I am going to have some lunch.
Can I make a statement? If you request me to go back to Washington with you right now, that is if you want to hear further testimony from me, can you do that? Can you take me with you?
No, that could not be done, Mr. Ruby. There are a good many things involved in that.
What are they?
Well, the public attention it would attract. And we have no place for you there to be safe, we're not law enforcement officials, and many things are at stake in this affair, Mr. Ruby.
But if I am eliminated there won't be any way of knowing. Consequently a whole new form of government is going to take over this country, and I know I won't live to see you another time. My life is in danger here. Do I sound screwy?
Well I don't know what can be done, Mr. Ruby, because I don't know what you anticipate we will encounter.
Then you don't stand a chance, Mr. Chief Justice, you have a lost cause. All I want is a lie detector test, and you refuse to give it to me. Because as it stands now  and the truth serum  how do you pronounce it  Pentothal  whatever it is. They will not give it to me, because I want to tell the truth... And then I want to leave this world.
Hello. Is this Jim Garrison's daughter?
Yes?
Virginia or Elizabeth?
Virginia.
Virginia, you're a lucky little girl. Your daddy has entered you in a beauty contest. Would you like to be in a beauty contest?
That sounds fun.
I need some information from you then. How old are you?
Six.
And how tall are you?
And you get of from school at 3 every day?
Yes.
Do you walk home?
Uh huh.
Welcome, Mr. Miller. Jim Garrison. Would you care for some coffee?
Yes, thank you, Mr. Garrison. Your coffee's almost Turkish down here but I could get used to it.
I'm glad you could find time to see me. I flew down from Denver this morning on my private jet.
Yes, your letter indicated you were in he oil business up there.
I've done quite well in Denver, Mr. Garrison, but I have to admire someone like you  and I have the means to back up what I say.
We can use all the support we can get. I think these might interest you.
They've been enlarged and show a lot of detail...
Splendid, love to see them.
Where were you? Europe, Pacific?
Germany.
You were lucky. I spent three years in the Pacific. I've never seen an avenue with such a profusion of bailbonding companies. Why is that?
I imagine because this is the Criminal District Court Building This is an enlargement of a potential shooter standing behind the picket fence. We...
I know about that shot. A terrible tragedy. How much do you have for carrying on your investigation?
If you must know, virtually nothing.
How many men are working with you on this?
Less than you would guess. Most days two to three assistant D.A.'s. A handful of police investigators.
That's all you've had all this time?
That's it.
I'm going to be very frank with you. You've done a great job, an astounding job considering the limited resources available to you. But the best you can ever hope for is to stir up a lot of confusion. You're not going to do this country any good, and you're not going to do yourself any good. You don't belong here. On this Mickey Mouse street with that cheap strip of bail bond shops.
The job manages to keep me pretty busy.
Nonsense. You should be in a job where you can make decisions that have impact, affect the world. Here you're trying to climb up the steep side of Mount Everest.
I propose you accept an appointment to the bench in Federal District Court and move into a job worthy of your talent. Do you have any idea, do you have any conception of how easily such an appointment can be arranged?
And what would I have to do?
Stop your investigation... it was a magnificent effort but it's over and done with. The press is already on your behind and that's only the beginning, my boy, only the beginning.
How long do you think it would take me to be appointed?
Didn't someone say he didn't speak good Russian?
It's a contradiction, Numa, get used to them. The only explanation for the royal treatment is he did give them radar secrets. Or fake secrets.
Even my own wife, chief, Who's wondering where I am?
Even your own wife, Numa. Any of you want to quit, do me a favor... put us out of our misery.
HOLD IT, CHIEF...
You just need some sleep, Lou. It won't look so bad when...
Well, believe what you want, boss, but we got to be more careful. All these new volunteers, any one of them could be...
Okay, you handle it, Numa. I don't have time for this nonsense. We've obviously got the bastards worried now. I'm going to Washington.
No, she could get hurt. If you believe what's happening to these other people.
She's the best damn witness we have!
I just don't want to do it. What else?
Hate mail here. Fan mail here. The bad news is the IRS has just requested an audit on your income from this office.
I expected that two months ago, and they're wasting their time... The bad news is the National Guard has just asked me to resign after 18 years. Well, maybe that's good news  it was never as good as combat, but this is. Bill, any more on Oswald and Shaw?
Sure sounds like he's winning.
He'll never make it. If he wins, they'll kill him. He wants to avenge his brother. He'll stop that war. No, they'll kill him before they let him become President.
I don't think so, Al. You remember the Hemingway story, "The Old Man and the Sea"? The old fisherman manages to catch this great fish  a fish so huge he has to tie it to the side of the boat to get it back in. But by the time he reached shore, the fish had long since been picked apart by sharks and nothing was left but the skeleton.
Then what are we going through all this trouble for?
It's a means to an end. This war has two fronts  in the court of law, we hope, against the odds, to nail Clay Shaw on a conspiracy charge. In the court of public opinion, it could take another 25 or 30 years for the truth to come out, but at least we're going to strike the first blow.
Here's my problem, Jack. You told me you and Guy were good friends for a long time?
More than ten years.
And he never hit you before?
Never touched me.
Yet on November 22, 1963  the day of the President's murder  our police report says he pistolwhipped you with a .357 Magnum. But the police report says you had an argument over the phone bill. Here, take a look at it. Now, does a simple argument over phone bills sound like a believable explanation to you?
How much more?
I don't know if I should talk about this.
Well, I'd ask Guy  we were friendly, you know  heart attack, wasn't it?
If you buy what you read in the paper.
You have other information?
I didn't say that. All I know is he died suddenly just before the Warren Report came out.
Why did Guy beat you, Jack?
Well, I guess now that Guy's dead, it don't really matter... it was about the people hanging around the office that summer. I wasn't really part of the operation, you know. I was handling the privateeye work for Guy when that came in  not much did  but that's why I was there... it was a nuthouse. There were all these Cubans coming and going. They all looked alike to me.
Dave Ferrie  you know about him?
Was he there often?
Often? He practically lived there. It was real cloak and dagger stuff. They called it Operation Mongoose. The idea was to train all these Cuban exiles for another invasion of Cuba. Banister's office was part of a supply line that ran from Dallas, through New Orleans to Miami, stockpiling arms and explosives.
Where is Banister in all this?
Banister was running his camp north of Lake Pontchartrain. Ferrie handled a lot of the training. There was a shooting range and a lot of tropical terrain like in Cuba. A few Americans got trained, too. Nazi types. Mercenaries. But Ferrie was the craziest.
Like I said, a fuckin' nuthouse.
And Oswald?
Yeah, he was there, too... sometimes he'd be meeting with Banister with the door shut. Other times he'd be shooting the bull with Ferrie. But he was there all right.
Anything more specific, Jack? It's important.
Anyone else involved at Banister's level?
There was one guy, I don't know, big guy, business guy, white hair  I saw him come into the office once. He looked out of place, y'know  like a society guy. Can't remember his name. Oswald was with him.
Clay something, that was his name  Clay.
Bertrand. Clay Bertrand?
Yeah! That's it. I don't know. Maybe it wasn't. I gotta go.
Clay Bertrand. He's in the Warren Report. He tried to get Oswald a lawyer. Was Kennedy ever discussed, Jack?
Sure. 'Course they hated the sonofabitch, but...
The assassination, Jack?
Never. Not with me sir, never... Listen, I think I'd better go. I said enough. I said all I'm going to say.
Hold on, Jack. What's the problem?
What's the problem? What's the problem? Do I need to spell it out for you, Mr. Garrison? I better go.
Nobody knows what we're talking about, Jack.
You're so naive, mister.
Jim Garrison?
Yes.
I'm glad you came. I'm sorry about the precautions.
Well, I just hope it was worth my while, Mr...
I could give you a false name, but I won't. Just call me X.
I've already been warned by the Agency, Mr. Whoever. If this is another type of threat, I don't...
I'm not with the Agency, Mr. Garrison, and I assume if you've come this far, what I have to say interests you. But I'm not going to name names, or tell you who or what I represent. Except to say  you're close, you're closer than you think...
I don't... I can't believe it. They killed him because he wanted to change things. In our time  in our country?
Kings are killed, Mr. Garrison. Politics is power, nothing more. But don't believe me. Don't trust me. Do your own work, your own thinking.
The size of this is... beyond me. Testify?
No chance in hell, Mr. Garrison. I'd be arrested and gagged, declared insane and hospitalized... maybe worse. You, too. I can only give you background, you got to find the foreground, the little things... Keep digging. Y'know you're the only person to ever bring a trial in the murder of John Kennedy. That's important  it's historic.
I haven't yet. I don't have much of a case.
But you don't have a choice anymore. You've become a significant threat to the national security structure. They would've killed you already, but you got a lot of light on you. Instead, they're gonna destroy your credibility; they already have in many circles in this town. You're some kinda egocrazed southern caricature to many folks. Be honest  the best chance you got is come up with a case, something, anything, make arrests, stir the shitstorm. You gotta hope to reach a point of critical mass where other people will come forward and the government will crack. Remember, fundamentally people are suckers for the truth, and the truth is on your side, 'bubba. I hope you get a break...
Well, thanks for coming.
You didn't get that break you needed, but you went as far as any man could, bubba. What can I do for you?
Just speculating, I guess. How do you think it started?
I think it started in the wind. Money  arms, big oil, Pentagon people, contractors, bankers, politicians like L.B.J. were committed to a war in Southeast Asia. As early as '61 they knew Kennedy was going to change things... He was not going to war in Southeast Asia. Who knows? Probably some boardroom or lunchroom somewhere  Houston, New York  hell, maybe Bonn, Germany... who knows, it's international now.
He's done it before. Other countries. Lumumba in the Congo, Trujillo, the Dominican Republic, he's working on Castro. No big deal. In September, Kennedy announces the Texas trip. At that moment, second Oswalds start popping up all over Dallas where they have the mayor and the cops in their pocket. Y flies in the assassins, maybe from the special camp we keep outside Athens, Greece  pros, maybe some locals, Cubans, Maria hire, separate teams. Does it really matter who shot from what rooftop? Part of the scenery. The assassins by now are dead or well paid and long gone...
Any chance of one of them confessing someday?
...don't think so. When they start to drool, they get rid of 'em. These guys are proud of what they did. They did Dealey Plaza! They took out the President of the United States! That's entertainment! And they served their country doing it.
...and your General?
...got promoted to two stars, but he was never military, you know, always CIA. Went to Vietnam, lost his credibility when we got beat over there, retired, lives in Virginia. I say hello to him when I see him at the supermarket...
Ever ask him?
You never ask a spook a question. No point. He'll never give you a straight answer. General Y still thinks of himself of the handsome young warrior who loved this country but loved the concept of war more.
His name?
Does it matter? Another technician. But an interesting thing  he was there that day in Dealey Plaza. You know how I know? That picture of yours. The hoboes... you never looked deep enough...
I knew the man 20 years. That's him. The way he walked... arms at his side, military, the stoop, the haircut, the twisted left hand, the large class ring. What was he doing there? If anyone had asked him, he'd probably say "protection" but I'll tell you I think he was giving some kind of "okay" signal to those hoboes  they're about to get booked and he's telling 'em it's gonna be okay, they're covered. And in fact they were  you never heard of them again.
...some story... the whole thing. It's like it never happened.
It never did.
Just think... just think. What happened to our country .. to the world... because of that murder... Vietnam, racial conflict, breakdown of law, drugs, thought control, guilt, assassinations, secret government fear of the frontier...
I keep thinking of that day, Tuesday the 26th, the day after they buried Kennedy, L.B.J. was signing the memorandum on Vietnam with Ambassador Lodge.
Welcome, District Attorney Garrison. May I call you Jim?
I've been called everything under the sun, Jerry. Call me whatever you like.
There have been a number of reports in reputable news media  Time, Newsweek, our own NBC  that you have gone way beyond the legal means available to a prosecutor, that you've intimidated and drugged witnesses, bribed them, urged them to commit perjury. What is your response?
Your faith in the veracity of the major media is touching, Jerry. It indicates that the Age of Innocence is not yet over. But seriously, Jerry, people aren't interested in Jim Garrison  they want the hard evidence! They want to know why he was killed and what forces were opposed to...
Some people would say you're paranoid.
Well, if I am, why is the Government concealing evidence?
Are they? Why would they?
That's exactly my question, Jerry. Maybe I'd better show you some pictures so you can begin to understand what I am talking about.
Pictures like this don't show up on television!
Sure they do. The camera can pick this up.
No, it can't!
Sad thing is the way it's screwing up this country, all these hippies running around on drugs, the way young people look you can't tell a boy from a girl anymore. I saw a girl the other day, she was pregnant  you could see her whole belly, and you know what she painted on it? "Love Child." It's fuckin' outa control. Values've gone to hell, Jim... Course it figures when you got somebody like that polecat Johnson in the White House.
I sometimes feel things've gone downhill since John Kennedy was killed, Senator.
Don't get me started on that. Those Warren Commission fellows were pickin' gnat shit out of pepper. No one's gonna tell me that kid did the shooting job he did from that damned bookstore.
I thought the FBI testfired the rifle to make sure it could be done?
Sure, three experts and not one of them could do it! They're telling us Oswald got off three shots with worldclass precision from a manual bolt action rifle in less than six seconds  and accordin' to his Marine buddies he got Maggie's drawers  he wasn't any good. Average man would be lucky to get two shots off, and I tell ya the first shot would always be the best. Here, the third shot's perfect. Don't make sense. And then they got that crazy bullet zigzagging all over the place so it hits Kennedy and Connally seven times. One "pristine" bullet? That dog don't hunt.
You know, something always bothered me about that from day one, and I can't put my finger on it.
If I were investigatin', I'd round up the 100 best riflemen in the world and find out which ones were in Dallas that day. You been duck hunting? I think Oswald was a good oldfashioned decoy. What'd he say? "I'm just a patsy." Out of the mouth of babes y'ask me.
You think there were other men involved, Russell?
Hell, you're the District Attorney. You read the Warren Report  and then you tell me you're satisfied Lee Oswald shot the President all by his lonesome.
Russell, honestly you sound like one of those kooky critics spreading paranoia like prairie fire. I just can't believe the Chief Justice of the United States would put his name on something that wasn't true.
Honey, another one of these. This one's as weak as cricket peepee. Yessir, you mark my words, Jim, Vietnam's gonna cost Johnson '68 and it's gonna put that other varmint Nixon in  then watch your hide, 'cause there ain't no offramps on a freeway to Hell!
What's wrong, Lou?
Boss, the President's been shot. In Dallas. Five minutes ago.
Oh no!... How bad?
No word yet. But they think it's in the head.
One little guy with a cheap rifle  look what he can do.
Let's get outta here, Lou. I saw too much stuff like this in the war.
I know David  a strange character.
He's been in trouble before. Used to be a hot shot pilot for Eastern Airlines, but he got canned after an alleged homosexual incident with a 14year old boy.
Remember whose office this was back in '63? 531 Lafayette Street.
Yeah, Guy Banister. ExFBI man. He died couple years ago.
I'd say he was probably getting intelligence training.
Lou, you were in the Marines. Who would be running that training?
The Office of Naval Intelligence.
Take a look across the street.
Post Office.
Upstairs. In 1963 that was the Office of Naval Intelligence  And just by coincidence, Banister, before he was FBI, was ONI. What do they say?
"Once ONI, always ONI"?
Bill, Lou, we're standing in the heart of the United States Government's intelligence community in New Orleans. That's the FBI there, the CIA, Secret Service, ONI. Doesn't this seem to you a rather strange place for a Communist to spend his spare time?
What are you driving at, boss?
We're going back into the case, Lou  the murder of the President. I want you to take some money from the Fees and Fines Account and go to Dallas  talk to some people. Bill, I want you to get Oser on the medical, the autopsy, Susan on Oswald and Ruby histories, tax records...
They took 'em to the Sheriff's office, not the police station, and they let 'em go. No record of them ever being questioned.
I can't say that comes as a surprise anymore.
A photographer from The Dallas Times Herald got some great shots of them never published...
...take a good look, chief, do any of 'em look like the hoboes you remember?
Hoboes I knew of old used to sleep in their clothes  these two look pretty young.
...not a single frayed collar or cuff, new haircuts, fresh shaves, clean hands  new shoe leather. Look at the ear of the cop... That's a wire. What's a cop wearing a headset for? I think they're actors, chief; they're not cops.
Graveyard dead. August this year. A single car accident on an empty road in Midlothian, Texas. The doctor said he was in some kind of strange shock when he died.
We need to find more witnesses, Lou.
There was Rose Cheramie. A whore. Two Cubans threw her out of a car on the way to Dallas.
Can we find her?
Graveyard dead near Big Sandy, Texas in '65. Two in the morning on some highway. A hit and run.
I never could figure out why this guy orders a traceable weapon to that post office box when you can go into any store in Texas, give a phony name and walk out with a cheap rifle which can never be traced.
Unless he or someone else wants him to get caught. Maybe he never ordered the weapon, Lou. Somebody else did. It was picked up at the post office early morning when Oswald's time sheet shows him clocked in at his job. Lou, come alive. These things are not adding up.
Mobbed up all the way. Tight with the Dallas cops. I'm digging, chief. I just need 10 more men and some more dollars.
I know you do, Lou. I'm doing three more lectures this month. You're all doing an incredible job, Sue, Al, Numa. But this is one where if you don't nail the other guy, you're dead. How did Jack Ruby dies so quick? Of what? Cancer, right? A history of Nazi Germany, Lou. They were studying viral cancers as a weapon in the 30's. We learned a lot more than you think from the Nazis. Read this. Our biological warfare lab is in Fort Detrick, Maryland. Close to where the National Cancer Institute is located. Think about it. Think the unthinkable  question everything.
Goddamn Sam!
And it ain't pretty ..."the AD has spent more than $8,000 on unexplained travel and investigative expenses since November, 1966.
You don't get it, guys  he can't go down any further. We got to protect him full time.
I have a plane to catch... going to Washington. An interesting lead, says he's closely connected to these events, but he won't come down here... I know what you're going through with Ferrie, Lou. We'll talk tomorrow.
I'm onto Ferrie's Cuban paymaster, Eladio del Valle, in Miami. I gotta get him in, boss. I need more men  I can't even pull the teams to watch Ferrie... This is our case!
I took it once for a low thyroid condition... It raises the metabolism, Lou. Did David Ferrie strike you as the kind of person who had a low metabolism?
I'd say the opposite  hypertension.
Time?
Between six and seven seconds.
The key is the second and third shots came right on top of each other, and it takes a minimum 2.3 seconds to recycle this thing. The other problem is there was a tree right there... Blocking the first two shots at the time they occur in the Zapruder film.
Didn't Hoover say something about that? The leaves had fallen off in November?
It was a Texas Live Oak, boss. It sheds it's leaves the first week of March. You try to hit a moving target at 88 yards through heavy foliage with this cheap 13dollar sucker, the world's worst shoulder weapon. No way. The FBI tried two sets of tests and not one of their sharpshooters could match Oswald's performance. Not one. And Oswald was at best a medium shot. The scope was defective on it, too. I mean this is the whole essence of the case to me. The guy couldn't do the shooting. Nobody could. And they sold this lemon to the American public.
The Zapruder film is the proof they didn't count on, Lou. We gotta get our hands on it.
That means we gotta subpoena Time Life on it.
Why not just shoot Kennedy coming up Houston? There's plenty of time  he's out in the open  a frontal shot?
When Kennedy gets to the kill zone, it's a turkey shoot.
How many men?
One shooter. One spotter on a radio. Maybe three teams. I'd say these were professional riflemen, chief, serious people. Hunters... patient. It takes skill to kill with a rifle, that's why there's been no execution of an executive with one in 200 years... "321... green!" Or else "Abort! Abort!"
Who do you think changed the parade route?
Beats me. City officials. Secret Service. Dallas police. They did a dry run with Chief Curry a few days before. But they didn't bother running through Dealey. They stopped right there, said something like, "and afterwards there's only the freeway," and went home.
You know who the mayor was?
No.
Earle Cabell. And guess who his brother is?
Who?
General Charles Cabell. Deputy Director of the CIA. Fired by Kennedy in '61 because of the Bay of Pigs fiasco, he moved back to the Pentagon, called Kennedy a "traitor". When he came to New Orleans to address the Foreign Policy Association, you know who introduced him? Our friend Clay Shaw.
The Warren Commission call him?
His boss was the one on the Warren Commission who handled all the leads to the intelligence community.
Allen Dulles?
Head of the CIA since '53. Kennedy fired them both. Cabell was his deputy for nine years. Talk about the fox investigating the chicken coop. Now we'll have to subpoena them, Lou.
They're gonna love you, chief.
Maybe we should just call it a day, Lou. Go home. While we're still a little behind. We got two people killed, maybe more we never thought about.
You never got anyone killed, boss. Their actions killed them years before. If we stopped now, it'd be even more wrong.
Chief, I've had my doubts about Bill for a long time. He's fighting everything.
We need him back.
I just plain don't trust him anymore.
Maybe you didn't hear what I said. I will not tolerate this infighting among the staff, I warn you that...
Boss, then I'm afraid I can't continue working with Bill.
Are you giving me an ultimatum, Lou?
Well, if that's what you want to call it. I didn't ever think it would come to this. I guess I am, boss.
I will not have any damned ultimatums put to me, Lou. I'll accept your resignation.
You sure got it. You're one stubborn and stupid sonofabitch D.A. and you're making one hell of a mistake!
I want to thank you, Mr. O'Keefe, for this time.
Call me Willie. I ain't got nuthin' but time, Mr. Garrison. Minutes, hours, days, years of'em. Time just stands still here like a snake sunnin' itself in the road...
For sexual purposes?
Well... yeah.
Anything else unusual about him you'd be able to describe in a court of law, Willie?
I remember he had some kinda thing wrong with his left leg. He limped. Don't get me wrong, he's not one of those, you know, limp wrists. He's a butch John. You'd meet him on the street, you'd never snap. You could go fishing with him, play poker with him, you'd never snap in a million years. So one night we were over at Ferrie's place. Having a party. Sometime in the late summer of '63.
Willie, are you willing to repeat your statements under sodium pentothal? Under the supervision of a doctor?
Fuck, yeah! I told you so. And you can tell'em all I told you so.
You realize the things you're saying, Willie, are going to be attacked by a lot of different people.
Bring on all the motherfuckers! Bring their college degrees in here! I got nuthin' to hide. They can't buy me. You can't buy me. I don't even need the parole. This is about the truth coming out. You're a goddamn liberal, Mr. Garrison, you don't know shit, cause you never been fucked in the ass. Fascism is here now, Facism is...
No one's trying to buy you, Willie. It's important to know why you're telling us this.
You wanna know why? 'Cause that mother fucker Kennedy stole that fuckin' election, that's why! Nixon was gonna be one of the great Presidents 'til Kennedy wrecked this fuckin' country. Got niggers all over the fuckin' place asking for their rights, where do you think we got all this fuckin' crime now, 'cause Kennedy promised 'em too damned much. Revolution comin'. Fascism's coming back. I tell ya this  the day that Communist sumbitch died was a great day for this country. I jes' hate to think they're blaming it on some silly fuckin' Oswald who didn't know shit anyway. People should know why that sumbitch was killed. 'Cause he was a Communist. Put me on the stand, go ahead, I'll tell the same goddamn story, I'm proud of it, don't matter fuck all to me, things don't change.
Jim, dinner's just about ready... I've got a surprise for you... tried something new... Jim? Jim, dinner.
Mmmmm... sure smells good... but Egghead, do you realize Oswald was interrogated for twelve hours after the assassination, with no lawyer present, and nobody recorded a word of it? I can't believe it. A police captain with 30 years experience and a crowd of Federal agents just had to know that with no record anything that Oswald said would be inadmissible in court.
Come on now, we'll talk about it at the table, dinner's getting cold. What are you doing in here?
I can't believe a man as intelligent as Earl Warren ever read what's in those volumes.
Well maybe you're right, Jim. I'll give you one hour to solve the case... until the kids are in bed. Then you're mine and Mr. Kennedy can wait 'til morning. Come on, everybody say goodnight to Daddy.
One hour, y'hear? Some Saturday night date you are. Mama warned me this would happen if I married such a serious man.
Oh, she did, huh? When I come up I'll show you how Saturday night got invented.
Honey, you all right?
It's incredible, honey  the whole thing. A Lieutenant Colonel testifies that Lee Oswald was given a Russian language exam as part of his Marine training only a few months before he defects to the Soviet Union. A Russian exam!
I cannot believe this. It's four thirty, Jim Garrison. I have five children are gonna be awake in another hour and ...
Honey, in all my years in the service I never knew a single man who was given a Russian test. Oswald was a radar operator. He'd have about as much use for Russian as a cat has for pajamas.
These books are getting to your mind, Mr. Garrison. I wish you'd stop readin' them.
And then this Colonel tries to make it sound like nothing. Oswald did badly on the test, he says. "He only had two more Russian words right than wrong." Ha! That's like me saying Touchdown here... ...is not very intelligent because I beat him three games out of five the last time we played chess.
Jim, what is going on, for heaven's sake! You going to stay up all night every night? For what? So you'll be the only man in America who read the entire 26 volumes of the Warren Report?
Liz, do I have to spell it out for you? Lee Oswald was no ordinary soldier. That was no accident he was in Russia. He was probably in military intelligence. That's why he was trained in Russian.
Honey, go back to sleep, please!
Goddammit! I been sleeping for three years!
Do you have any evidence against him, Jim? Clay Shaw's done so much for the city with all that restoration in the Quarter. He's well connected, all his friends, the money, people, be careful, Jim.
It'll be off the record, honey. I'll bring him in on a Sunday. A quiet little chat between gentlemen.
Jim, come on, honey, get down on your hands and knees and hunt for Jasper's Easter egg.
You know I don't like these tribal rituals, Freckle Face. I'm interviewing Clay Shaw this morning.
No. I told you I was going to talk to Shaw.
But why in the Lord's name would you do it in the middle of Easter Sunday when you knew we were...
Because when I scheduled it I didn't realize it was a holiday. You were there, why didn't you say something?
Look at the calendar, for Christ's sake. You said a Sunday, not Easter Sunday.
I'm sorry, but it's important. Clay Shaw is important. I'm sorry.
You're missing most of your life, Jim, and you don't even know it. The kids are missing out too. It's not just you making the sacrifice here, honey.
Look, I'll rush and be there by two, I promise. Go ahead without me.
Hi.
Tough day.
My sympathies.
Liz, I'm really sorry. The meeting went much longer than expected.
We waited for you... hours, Jim. You could have telephoned, for God's sake. It's Easter! You promised, Jim.
I don't know what to say except I'm sorry. I just don't have rabbits on my mind.
I think you care more about John Kennedy than your family! All day long the kids are asking, "Where's Daddy?" What am I supposed to tell your kids, Jim!
I don't know what to tell them. How 'bout the truth  I'm doing my job to make sure they can grow up in a country where justice won't be an arcane, vanished idea they read about in history books, like the dinosaurs or the lost continent of Atlantis.
That sounds dandy, but it doesn't replace a father and a husband on Easter Day.
It's going to get worse, honey.
Did they live?
It's not funny, Jim, I'm scared.
Don't be. Nothing to be scared about, honey, I been through four years of war  this is nothing.
Nothing is going to happen to you. I won't let it.
Leave us ALONE for God's sake! ...Oh, it's Lou.
Did you enter Virginia into a beauty contest?
What?
A man just called. He asked her everything!
Honey, some crackpot. Martin Luther King was killed in Memphis today!
Your daughter's life was just threatened!
Just a crank making phone calls. Happens a dozen times a day at the office.
Our home, Jim! A kidnapper, a murderer, who knows!
Only cowards make crank calls, sweetheart, nothing is going to happen.
How do you know? How do you even know what goes on in this house anymore! You're too busy making speeches, stirring up every crazed Klansman in Louisiana after us!
Get a hold of yourself.
I'm leaving. I'm taking the kids and I'm leaving! I won't stand it anymore.
Honey, come on. The government wants you to be scared. They want everybody to be scared to speak out. They count on it. But there's nothing to be scared of.
You and your government! What's the matter with you? Don't you have any feelings? Your daughter! What kind of man are you?
I'll take them up to my mother's if it'll make you feel better. Spend a week. I'll change the locks, the phone lines, I'll even get a bodyguard, all right? Elizabeth, get a hold of yourself.
Jim, before this Kennedy thing, nothing mattered to you in this life more than your children. The other night Jasper tried to show you a drawing. You didn't even notice he was there. He came to me bawling his little eyes out. Jim, he's sensitive  he needs more from you.
I promise I'll make more time for Jasper.
Is it such a chore? I don't understand you.
Damn it, if I say I'll spend more time with him, I'll spend more time with him. I can't fight you and the world too, Liz.
I'm not fighting you, Jim, I'm just trying to reach you. You've changed.
Of course, I've changed! My eyes have opened, and once they're open, believe me, what used to look normal seems insane! And now King. Don't you think this has something to do with that? Can't you see?
I don't want to see, goddammit! I'm tired. I've had enough! They say you don't have anything anyway! Everybody in town's talking. You're ruining this man Shaw's life! You're attacking him because he's homosexual! Going ahead with this stupid "trial"! Did you ever once stop and consider what he's going through?
That's not why I'm attacking him! You don't believe me  all this time you never believed me.
Oh, I don't know anymore! I believe there was a conspiracy, but not the government. I just want to raise our children and live a normal life! I want my life back!
Well so do I, goddammit! So do I! I had a life too, y'know  I had a life, too. But you just can't bury your head in the sand like some ostrich, goddammit, Elizabeth! It's not just about you  and your well being and your two cars and your kitchen and your TV and "I'm jes fine honey." While our kids grow up into a shithole of lies! Well, I'm not "fine" about that, I'm angry. My life is fucked, Liz! And yours is, too! And if you don't want to support me I can understand that but don't you go start making threats of taking the children away.
You never talked to me this way before, Jim Garrison. I'm not making any threats. I'm leaving you. I'm taking the kids to my mother's. I am  I am.
And if you're wrong?
I never doubted for a second that I was. Will you come to the trial, Elizabeth?
I don't think so, Jim...
They killed him, honey.
Huh?
He won... and they killed Robert Kennedy. They shot him down.
Oh no! No! I can't believe it. I can't believe it. Both of them, both brothers, oh my God!
In the sheriff's report, Mrs. Mercer, it says you were at Dealey Plaza two hours before the assassination but that...
Yes, it was about 11 in the morning. I was driving west on Elm Street toward the Triple Underpass, in a rented car  a blue Valiant. I'll never forget that day.
You mean you identified him on Saturday, the day before Ruby shot Oswald?
That's right. When I saw him on TV, I was shocked. I said to my family, "that was the man I saw in the truck."
But you didn't seem nearly so sure in your statement to the Warren Commission.
That's what bothers me, Mr. Garrison. You see, they've been altered. My statements...
This says "Mercer could not identify any of the photographs as being identical with the person she had observed slouched over the wheel of a green Ford pickup truck." That's not true. I recognized him and I told them so... They also said it was a dark green air conditioning truck, which it was not. And here... ...on the Dallas Sheriff's report. This is really strange. See that notarized signature on the bottom of each page? That's not my signature. And there never was any notary present during any of my questioning. I guess that's all...
Mrs. Mercer, as a former FBI man, it's difficult to accept this.
I know, but Mr. Garrison, the FBI is just not doing their job.
I'm not sure I understand.
Well... in an investigation we're conducting your name has come up a number of times.
I wouldn't imagine where.
We recently talked to a number of men who claim to know you. Are you acquainted with a David Logan?
No. Never heard of him.
A Perry Russo?
No.
A Willie O'Keefe?
No, I don't believe I know anyone by that name.
Mr. O'Keefe told us he met you at the Masquerade Bar down in the Quarter and several evenings later you had him over for dinner at your apartment on Dauphine Street. Do you recall that?
Perhaps a few more details about the evening will refresh your memory. Mr. O'Keefe told us dinner was served by a uniformed waiter  a colored man. He particularly remembers that you sat at one end and he at the other  which he found rather unusual because the table was so long. Does that bring back memories of Willie O'Keefe?
Not at all. But on the other hand, I do have a lovely Chippendale dining table and I often have a friend over sitting at one end while I sit at the other. That is precisely the point of a long dining table. The splendor of the meal adds to the enjoyment of it.
I would imagine a uniformed waiter helps.
It adds a taste of elegance for which I must confess a weakness for now and then. I call him Smedley. His real name is Frankie Jenkins  but I could hardly imagine anything more uncouth during dinner than my turning toward the kitchen and hollering "Frankie!" .. Where is this leading to, Mr. Garrison?
After dinner you paid him to have sex with you.
Pffft! Absolute nonsense. The Quarter is filled with vivid imaginations, my dear Mr. Garrison  grimy young hoodlums who'll say and do anything. As you well know.
...in the course of that night, Mr. O'Keefe said a man named David Ferrie stopped by the house... along with another young man...
Who?
David Ferrie.
No. I have never known anyone by that name. Of course never having met Mr. O'Keefe I could hardly have met Mr. Ferrie...
...and that the four of you partied early into the morning hours...
Let me show you his picture.
No. I'm sure I've never met anyone of such a bizarre appearance.
Does the name Clay Bertrand mean anything to you?
Clay Bertrand? Clay Bertrand? I believe there was a man with a name similar to that who worked at the Chamber of Commerce. Is that the man you had in mind?
No, it was not. Do you know an attorney by the name of Dean Andrews?
One meets so many attorneys in my business. No, I don't believe I know Dean Andrews.
Mr. Shaw, can you identify this man?
Naturally. Are you claiming, Mr. Garrison, that Mr. Oswald also had dinner with me?
Mr. Shaw, did you ever meet Lee Harvey Oswald?
You really have me consorting with a cast of sordid characters, don't you, Mr. Garrison.
Please answer the question.
Of course not! Such a pity, that assassination. In fact, I admired President Kennedy. A man with true panache, and a wife with impeccable taste.
Mr. Shaw, this is an Italian newspaper article saying you were a member of the Board of Centro Mondo Commerciale in Italy, that this company was a creature of the CIA for the transfer of funds in Italy for illegal politicalespionage activities. It says that this company was expelled from Italy for those activities.
I'm well aware of this asinine article. And I am thinking very seriously of suing this rag of a newspaper.
It says that this company has heavily Fascist ties to the French secret army organization that tried to assassinate de Gaulle in 1960.
Nonsense. What next?
...and that this company is linked to the Schlumber tool company here in Houma, Louisiana  which is where their arms may have come from to David Ferrie and his Cubans...
Mr. Garrison, you're reaching. I am an international businessman. The Trade Mart which I founded is America's commercial pipeline to Latin America. I trade everywhere. I am accused, as are all businessmen, of all things. I somehow go about my business, make money, help society the best I can and try to promote free trade in this world.
Mr. Shaw, have you ever been a contract agent with the Central Intelligence Agency?
And if I was, Mr. Garrison... do you think I would be here today... talking to somebody like you?
No, people like you don't have to, I guess  people like you walk between the raindrops.
May I go? Regardless of what you may think of me, Mr. Garrison, I am a patriot first and foremost.
I've spent half my life in the United States military serving and defending this great country, Mr. Shaw, and you're the first person I ever met who considered it an act of patriotism to kill his own president.
Now just a minute, sir! You're way out of line!
If we go to him our investigation'll hit the front pages by sunrise. Blow up right in our face. Ruby was just given a new trial. If he has something to say, it'll be there. Susie, what did you find out on Oswald?
Negative on his tax records. Classified. First time I know a D.A. can't get a tax record. I put together a list of all the CIA files on Oswald that were part of the Warren Report and asked for them. There are about 1200 documents... Oswald in the USSR, in Mexico City, Oswald and the U2, a CIA 201 personnel file, a memo from the Director on Oswald, travel and activities  can't get one of them. All classified as secret on the grounds of national security. It's real strange.
Finally they shuttle him to a radio factory in Minks where he lives as high on the hog as he ever has  he's given 5,000 rubles, a roomy apartment with a balcony, has affairs with local girls.
Makes sense  he's a spokesman.
But he never writes, speaks, or does any propaganda for the Russians. He meets Marina, whose uncle is a colonel in Soviet intelligence, at a trade union dance; she thinks he's Russian the way he speaks, six weeks later they marry, have a daughter.
Don't get sidetracked! How does he get back to the States? That's the point. Does he have any problems?
None! The State Department issues him a new passport in 48 hours and loans him the money to travel. He's never investigated or charged by the Navy for revealing classified information or, as far as we know, debriefed by the CIA.
This is a man whose secrets cause us to change our radar patterns in the Pacific! He should've been prosecuted as a traitor!
The FBI finally gets around to talking to him in Dallas and runs a file on him as a miscreant Communist type.
But who meets him when he gets off the boat in New York in June '62?
Spas T. Raikin, a leading member of an antiCommunist group.
And Marina? Does she have a problem getting out?
None either. It's bizarre. It's next to impossible to get Russian sweethearts out. Nor does Lee have any problem getting a new passport when he wants to go to Cuba and Russia in '63. A man who has defected once already. It's crazy.
Dammit, it doesn't add up! Ordinary people get blacklisted for leftist affiliations! The State Department did everything short of dispatching a destroyer to Minks to insure Oswald's return. Only intelligence people can come and go like that.
The next thing we know he's living in Dallas/Ft. Worth in October '62 working 6 months at JaggarsChiles Stovall, a photographic firm that contracts to make maps for the U.S. Army... He starts work only days before the government reveals Russian missiles in Cuba and the crisis explodes. Oswald may have had access to missile site footage obtained by the U2 planes and works alongside a young man who'd been in the Army Security Agency.
Sort of like Benedict Arnold coming back to George Washington's cabinet.
Equally incongruous is Oswald becoming chummy with the White Russian community of Dallas  all rabid anti Communists.
The Oswalds are introduced by George de Mohrenschildt to Janet and Bill Williams. It's through Janet Williams in October '63 that Lee gets the warehouse job, right smack on Elm Street at the Book Depository, which is owned by another oilman with ties to defense and military intelligence.
Presumably so he can now exercise his intellect stacking school texts at $1.25 an hour.
All I can find out about the Williams' is their tax returns are classified and that Bill Williams, a descendant of the Cabots of Massachusetts, has links through his family and United Fruit to the CIA and does classified work for Bell Helicopter which requires a security clearance  so what is Oswald, a defector, doing visiting his wife in his house? Williams has a relationship at Bell with General Walter Dornberger, another one of the Nazis we brought in after the War for our missile program. He used slave labor to build the V2 Rockets for Hitler before Bell needed him.
I wonder about the Williams'. Just where did the first description of Oswald come from at 12:44? No one knows. They claimed it was Brennan's, but his description came after 1 P.M. Who called? Somehow the FBI's been tapping the Williams' and picks up a call between Bell Helicopter and Janet's phone, an unidentified voice saying "We both know who's responsible." Who called? Why's the Bureau been tapping them?
...now it gets positively spooky. In January, 1961  in New Orleans, at the Bolton Ford Dealership  when the Oswald we know is in Russia  there is a man using the name "Oswald" to buy trucks for the Friends of Democratic Cuba. The salesman never saw him again, but guess who's on the articles of incorporation of the Friends of Democratic Cuba? Guy Banister. Banister has someone using the name "Oswald" to buy the trucks. Hoover, at the FBI, writes a memo dated June, 1960, that there could be someone using Oswald's passport and identity.
Goddamn! They put Oswald together from Day One! Like some dummy corporation in the Bahamas  you just move him around a board. Sent him to Russia, in and out, no passport problems. You got the word "microdots" in his notebook, you got the Minox camera and the electronic devices they find in his possessions, the sealed DIZ201 personnel file. For all we know, there could be a dozen Oswalds in different cities, countries  all of them leaving a trail of incriminating evidence that could easily be traced to a scapegoat after the assassination. Does the real Oswald know he's been put together? Who knows. It doesn't matter, does it? He's a low level spy, he doesn't know who he really works for...
I don't believe it!
Bugging the District Attorney's office of New Orleans! It's outrageous!
I think Clinton is a breakthrough. Shaw denies he knows Ferrie or Oswald. Is that right? It proves he's a liar. Keep on it, Bill.
This is interesting  are you ready for this? Oswald went to see the FBI two weeks before the assassination. It seems Special Agent Hosty made three routine visits to his house, supposedly to keep an eye on Marina Oswald.
Aren't you being a little hard?
No, I don't think I am, Susie. Anyone else?
I'm sorry.
I know.
These new people never identified themselves. They musta been watching the whole thing 'cause they knew everything Mary and me had been doing that day. I guess I wasn't too hard to find  wearing that red raincoat.
How many shots you say you heard?
Four to six.
That's impossible. You heard echoes ...echoes. We have three bullets and three shots which came from the Book Depository and that's all we're willing to say.
...which is strange 'cause this is less than 20 minutes after the assassination.
No, I saw a guy shooting from over there. He was behind that fence. What are you going to do about it?
We have that taken care of. You only heard three shots and you are not to talk to anyone about this. No one, you hear?
I was scared. It was all kinda queer, but it sure felt like two and two was coming up three... and then they took Mary's five snapshots from me, sent them to Washington, and when they returned them weeks later, two of them had the backgrounds mutilated... The only one we saved was in Mary's camera. I didn't want to go to Washington when the Warren Commission subpoenaed me... so the lawyer come down here and interviewed me at Parkland Hospital.
He asked me why I thought I was in danger and I said:
Well if they can kill the President, they can certainly get me.
That doesn't make sense, Mrs. Hill. We have the man that killed the President.
No, you don't!
He kept trying to get me to change my story about the shots. He was getting hot under the collar, and telling the woman not to write when he wanted.
Look, do you want the truth, or just what you want me to say?
I want the truth.
The truth is that I heard between four and six shots. I'm not going to lie for you.
...you heard echoes.
No. I had guns all my life. I used to go turtle shooting.
I realize you're under a great deal of stress .. it's clouded your judgement.
So off the record, he starts talking about my family, and even mentioned my marriage was in trouble like I didn't know it or something. He got angrier and angrier and then:
Look, we can put you in a mental institution. We can make you look crazier'n Marguerite Oswald, and everybody knows how crazy she is.
I knew something was crooked as a dog's hind leg, 'cause no one who is just taking a deposition gets that involved and angry... sure enough, when I finally read my testimony as published by the Warren Commission, it was a fabrication from start to finish.
Daddy said it was all right if I was real quiet.
Sure it is. Freckle Face, if I ever handled a minor felon like that, it'd be all over the papers. I'd catch hell. And this is the alleged murderer of the President?
Dad, look what I drew.
That's something, Jasper. What is it?
A rhinoceros. Can I stay up another hour?
Daddy! Where have you been?
Hi, Freckle Face.
Are we going away, Daddy?
Well, it looks like it, Jasper.
Because of Kennedy? Are the same people gonna kill us, Daddy?
No, Jasper, nobody's gonna kill us.
I'm scared.
There's nothing wrong with feeling a little scared, Jasper, Virginia. Telling the truth can be a scary thing. It scared President Kennedy, but he was a brave man. If you let yourself be too scared, then you let the bad guys take over the country, don't you  and then everybody gets scared.
I'm going to have to ask the jury to leave the courtroom.
What?
Jesus, Ed, from time immemorial it's been standard booking procedure to ask an alias. You know that. There's no constitutional requirement that says a lawyer has to be present for routine questions.
I call'em as I see'em, Jim. I'm ruling it inadmissible.
That's our case!
If that's your case, you didn't have a case. I wouldn't believe whatever Habighorst said, anyway.
I can't believe you're saying this in the courtroom.
Well, I am saying it. Bring in the jury.
Colonel Finck, are you saying someone told you not to dissect the neck?
I was told that the family wanted examination of the head.
As a pathologist it was your obligation to explore all possible causes of death, was it not?
I had the cause of death.
Your Honor, I would ask you to direct the witness to answer my question. Why did Colonel Finck not dissect the track of the bullet wound in the neck?
Well I heard Dr. Humes stating that  he said...
I don't remember his name. You must understand it was quite crowded, and when you are called in circumstances like that to look at the wound of the President who is dead, you don't look around too much to ask people for their names and who they are.
But you were a qualified pathologist. Was this Army general a qualified pathologist?
No.
But you took his orders. He was directing the autopsy.
No, because there were others. There were admirals.
There were admirals.
Oh yes, there were admirals  and when you are a lieutenant colonel in the Army you just follow orders, and at the end of the autopsy we were specifically told  as I recall it was Admiral Kenney, the Surgeon General of the Navy  we were specifically told not to discuss the case.
Come in, Dave. Have a seat, make yourself comfortable. Coffee?
Do you remember me, Mr. Garrison? I met you on Carondolet Street right after your election. I congratulated you, remember?
How could I forget? You make quite a first impression. Sharon, could you please bring us some coffee? I've heard over the years you're quite a firstrate pilot, Dave. Legend has it you can get in and out of any field, no matter how small... I'm a bit of a pilot myself, you know. Flew grasshoppers for the field artillery in the war.
Do you mind if I smoke, Mr. Garrison?
How could I? Dave, as you know, President Kennedy was assassinated on Friday. A man named Lee Harvey Oswald was arrested as a suspect and then was murdered yesterday by a man named Jack Ruby. We've heard reports that Oswald spent the summer in New Orleans and we've been advised you knew Oswald pretty well.
That's not true. I never met anybody named Oswald. Anybody who told you that has to be crazy.
But you are aware, he served in your Civil Air Patrol unit when he was a teenager.
No... if he did, I don't remember him. There were lots of kids in and out... y'know.
I'm sure you've seen this. Perhaps you knew this man under another name?
No, I never saw him before in my life.
Well that must've been mistaken information we got. Thanks for straightening it out for us. There is one other matter that's come up, Dave. We were told you took a trip to Texas shortly after the assassination of Friday.
Yeah, now that's true. I drove to Houston.
What was so appealing about Houston?
I hadn't been there ice skating in many years, and I had a couple of young friends with me, and we decided we wanted to go ice skating.
Dave, may I ask why the urge to go ice skating in Texas happened to strike you during one of the most violent thunderstorms in recent memory?
Oh, it was just a spur of the moment thing... the storm wasn't that bad.
I see. And where did you drive?
We went straight to Houston, and then Saturday night we drove to Galveston and stayed over there.
Why Galveston?
No particular reason. Just to go somewhere.
And then Sunday?
In the morning we went goose hunting. Then headed home, but I dropped the boys off to see some relatives and I stayed in Hammond.
Did you bag any geese on this trip?
I believe the boys got a couple.
But the boys told us they didn't get any.
Oh yes, well, come to think of it, they're right. We got to where the geese were and there were thousands of them. But you couldn't approach them. They were a wise bunch of birds.
Your young friends also told us you had no weapons in the car. Dave, isn't it a bit difficult to hunt for geese without a shotgun?
Yes, now I remember, Mr. Garrison. I'm sorry, I got confused. We got out there near the geese and it was only then we realized we'd forgotten our shotguns. Stupid, right? So of course we didn't get any geese.
I see. Dave thank you for your time. I'm sorry it has to end inconveniently for you, but I'm going to have you detained for further questioning by the FBI.
Why? What's wrong?
Dave, I find your story simply not believable.
Leon's in a bad mood, don't get excited, he's all right.
Would you say this "Leon" was actually Lee Harvey Oswald?
You mean about the Cubans getting trained north of the lake?
Oh, you got that? Banister's pet project. Getting paid by the government to work against the government. Beautiful. What a mind he had, what a guy, Guy. He had all those files.
Who was paying you, Dave?
You think I was a getaway pilot for the assassination, don't you?
I don't know. Were you? Who you scared of, Dave?
Everybody! The Agency. The Mob. The Cubans. Yeah, follow the Cubans. Check them out. Here, in Dallas, Miami. Check out a guy named Eladio del Valle. My paymaster when I flew missions into Cuba  he's somewhere in Miami. You're on the right track.
Let me get this straight, now. Clay Shaw is blackmailing you?
Fuckin' A. How do you think the Agency gets people to do their bullshit? Fuck knows what they got on Oswald!
Was it the same Oswald, Dave, that was in Dallas, or was it an impersonator.
Same one. I didn't know no impersonator.
Did you take a good look at the TV when they had Oswald?
Black, black  just give it to me. Shit. I'm so exhausted. My neck is killing me. I've got cancer. Had it for years. I been working with mice, y'know, trying to come up with a cure.
Dave, can I just ask you this directly? Did you ever work for the CIA?
You make it sound like some remote fuckin' experience in ancient history. Man, you never leave the Agency. Once they got you, you're in for life.
And Shaw?
Shaw's an "untouchable", man  highest clearance. Shaw, Oswald, the Cubans  all Agency.
What about Ruby?
Jack? Jack was a pimp. A bagman in Dallas for the Mob. He used to run guns to Castro when he was still on our side. Check out Jack Youngblood. Shit  we almost had Castro. Then we tried to whack him. Everybody's flipping sides all the time. It's fun 'n' games, man fun 'n' games.
Then who killed the President?
Oh man, why don't you stop. This is too fuckin' big for you! Who did Kennedy? It's a mystery wrapped in a riddle inside an enigma. Even the shooters don't fuckin' know! Don't you get it yet? I can't be talking like this. They're gonna kill me. I'm gonna die! I don't know what happened. All I wanted in the world was to be a Catholic priest  live in a monastery, study ancient Latin manuscripts, pray, serve God. But I had this one terrible, fatal weakness. They defrocked me. And then I started to lose everything.
Shit! Forgot to glue this fuckin' rug today. You know, at one time I even had a full head of hair like everyone else. And then I lost that. That fuckin' Clay Shaw. I hate the bastard. All I got left is in his rotten, bloody hands. He tipped the newspapers  I know it. That's how the Agency works. They use people, chew them up, spit 'em out. Now it's my turn.
Dave, it's going to be okay. Just talk to us on the record and we'll protect you. I guarantee it.
They'll get to you, too  they'll destroy you... They're untouchable, man... I'm so fucking exhausted I can't see straight.
Get some rest, Dave, and you'll feel better in the morning. We'll talk then.
Yeah, yeah. But leave me alone for awhile. I got to make some calls.
You know damn well who it is.
Dave?
Yeah, you got it. Since you're the only straight shooter in that fuckin' office, I'd like an answer from you. Did you plant it?
Dave, do you think we're out of our minds? The whole building's been a zoo since that broke. We can't get a thing done. Reporters crawling everywhere. You think we want that?
Somebody planted that fucking story! And somebody tipped off the press I'm one of Garrison's fucking suspects. I can't go home. I'm out on the street. The maggots are everywhere! Do you know what you've done to me? It's all over the national news now. You know what you've done to me?
Calm down, Dave, what?
I'm a dead man! From here on, believe me, I'm a dead man.
What are you talking about, Dave? You weren't mentioned in the story. Don't jump to conclusions.
You think your investigation's been all that secret? You know, when you talk to people, they talk to other people.
What did they...
You still questioning any Cubans?
Dave, you know that's where this road leads.
It leads farther than that.
Dave, just calm down. Meet me in the lobby of the Fontainbleau in 20 minutes. I'll have a suite reserved for you under an assumed name.
The Fontainbleau? 20 minutes?
Yeah. Come on, Dave, come on our side. I guarantee you the boss'll protect you... Dave?
...give me protection?
Yeah! He'd kill for you Dave. He likes you. Your mind.
I got no place to sleep. I'll meet you in 20 minutes.
I'm caught in the middle. They're after me. It's almost over.
Listen, Dave, why don't we order some room service, have a bite, relax. I'll stay as long as you want.
I don't know who to trust anymore. Yeah, sure I could use a pot of hot coffee and a few packs of Camels. You got anything new in the investigation?
Dave, I always play square. No bugs. I'd love you to go on the record, but I"m in no hurry. Whenever you're ready.
I don't have much time. They don't even need bugs anymore. They got these fuckin' satellite waves. They put a bug in a friend of mine when he was born, right up his nostrils, subcutaneous, between his eyes. He was one of those products of a crossbreading experiment. A Nazi rocket scientist father and a Commie spy mother. You'd never believe half the shit the Agency does. I'm so fuckin' tired. Haven't slept since that shit article came out. Why'd you guys have to go and get me involved with this?
Did we involve you, Dave, or did Clay Shaw?
That cocksuckin' faggot! He's got me by the balls.
What do you mean?
Photographs  compromising stuff. And he'll use 'em. The Agency plays for keeps... I knew Oswald. He was in my Civil Air Patrol unit. I taught him everything. A "wanna be," y'know, nobody really liked him cause he was a snitch. I treated him good. He'd talk about his kid, y'know, really wanted her to grow up with a chance, but... He got a raw deal. The Agency fucked him. Just like they're gonna fuck me.
What about the mob, Dave? How do they figure in this?
They're Agency, too. Don't you get it? CIA and Mafia together. Trying to whack out the Beard. Mutual interests. They been doing it for years. There's more to this than you dream. FBI fucking hates the CIA. Navy Intelligence got something to do with it too. Check out "Alan Pope" in Miami. Jack Youngblood. Bill Harvey. Colonel Roselli. The shooter, I hear, was a Dallas cop  the bagman at Ruby's club. I heard he shot his own partner. Got that? Check out the rich fucks in Dallas. H.L. Hunt. He's dirty. That's all I know. But the Agency always runs the show. Check out something called "Mongoose" Operation Mongoose. Government, Pentagon stuff, they're in charge, but who the fuck pulls whose chain who the fuck knows, fun 'n' games man  check out Southeast Asia  that's the next big number  the heroin trail. "Oh, what a deadly web we weave when we practice to deceive."
...Oswald?
No, I did not.
...ever called Dean Andrews?
No, I did not.
...and have you ever met David Ferrie?
No, I would not even know what he looked like except for the pictures I've been shown.
...did you ever use the alias Clay Bertrand?
No, I did not.
Thank you... Mr. Shaw.
Mr. Goldberg, you claim you met David Ferrie and Clay Shaw while on a vacation here from your accounting business in New York, you had drinks and, under the influence discussed killing Kennedy, is that not so?
I did.
Why?
Well, I wanted to make sure she's the same girl I sent.
I see... and why are you experiencing this paranoia?
Well, you see, I've been subject to hypnosis and psychological warfare ever since 1948, when I was in Korea...
What's it look like, Nick?
I don't see any violence, Jim. Heart attack, maybe an aneurysm. Looks like natural causes.
Nick, what would happen if a man suffering from hypertension were to take an entire bottle of Proloid?
He'd die pretty quick, either a heart storm or a ruptured blood vessel in the brain.
Can you ascertain if there's Proloid in his system?
Not in a routine autopsy, but if we looked at the spinal fluid, there might be a high level of iodine, but it's difficult to know. Whatcha thinkin', Jim?
Well, it doesn't make sense, Nick  he was afraid of dying, then he kills himself in a way that leaves no trace, but he leaves two unsigned suicide notes.
If it's a suicide, I seen weirder, Jim.
Hold your horses. What kinda source?
The anonymous kind, Chief.
Morning, boys. Ready for a walking tour?
At 7:30 Sunday morning? It's not exactly fresh blood we're sniffing here, boss.
Old stains, Bill, but just as telling.
What the hell's a Communist like Lee Oswald doing working out of Banister's?
Y'ever heard of a double agent, Bill? I'm beginning to doubt Oswald was ever a Communist... after the arrest, 544 Camp Street never appeared on the pamphlets again. Now here's another one for you: What would you say if I told you Lee Oswald had been trained in the Russian language when he was a Marine?
Lord, wake me, please. I must be dreaming.
No, you're awake, Bill, and I'm dead serious. And we're going to start by tracking down your anonymous source from three years ago. How did you find out Dave Ferrie drove to Texas that day?
Well, it's a terrific yard, Chief, but the man's an obvious alcoholic with a reputation lower than crocodile piss.
Does that bother you, Bill? I always wondered in court why it is because a woman is a prostitute, she has to have bad eyesight.
He'll never sign a statement, boss, let alone get on a witness stand.
When something's rotten in the land, Bill, it generally isn't just one fish, we'll get corroboration... find this Clay Bertrand. If I were a betting man, I'd give you 10 to 1 it's an alias. Start checking around the Quarter.
And the six of us, with almost no budget and in secret, are going to solve the case that the Warren Commission with dozens of support staff and millions of dollars couldn't solve. We can't keep up with the crimes in the Parish as it is, Chief.
The murder of a President, Bill, is a crime in Orleans Parish too. I didn't pick you because of your legal skill, you know.
Gee, thanks boss.
I'm lost, boss. What are we saying here?
We're saying that when Oswald went to Russia, he was not a real defector, that he was an intelligence agent on some kind of mission for our government and he remained one till the day he died, that's what we're saying.
And therefore because Oswald pulled the trigger, the intelligence community murdered their own commander in chief. That's what you're saying!
I'll go you one better! Maybe Oswald didn't even pull the trigger, Bill. The nitrate test indicates he didn't even fire a rifle on November 22nd. And on top of that, they didn't even bother to check if the rifle had been fired that day.
He had his palm print on the weapon.
It went to the goddamn FBI and they didn't find a goddamn thing. It comes back a week later and one guy in the Dallas police department suddenly finds a palm print which for all I know he could've taken off Oswald at the morgue. There's no chain of evidence, Bill. And what about the tow guns actually seen in the Depository? One an Enfield photographed by a newsman and the other a Mauser, described by Deputy Weitzman... Maybe, just maybe, Lee Oswald was exactly what he said he was Bill  "a patsy". Take it at face value. Lou, Susie, I'm going with my gut here. He's got an alias of Hidell to buy the rifle, "O.H. Lee" to rent the room, right? What's in a name, right? In intelligence, they're assumed to be fake. A name is sort of like a postbox number, a code  several different people can use the same name, right? Then why can't somebody be using Oswald's name?
But why?
To frame him, obviously. You got to get in your minds how the hell spooks think, Bill! They're not ordinary crooks.
I still have to question what the legal basis is that supports this, boss. Susie's stuff is colorful, but...
Let's start making some assumptions about the man. Why would he leave a path as big as Lee Harvey Oswald's? This is not a thin trail, gentlemen, it is a very wide one. Who found the evidence? Who set him up? Lou, Bill, Susie, I want you to go back and check all the sightings of Oswald in Dallas, New Orleans and Mexico in the summer and fall of '63  see if it's the same guy.
Can you get some sworn statements?
That's gonna be tough. Nobody's talking.
I think we should have him in for a little talk.
That's fine, Numa, but what about all the people who aren't writing letters. They're sitting home reading all these lies. I just heard NBC crew's in town to do a "White Paper"  not on the Kennedy killing, but on us. One of their top guys, Harry Stoner, is talking to everybody he can find about you, boss...
Oh Jesus, Stoner!... Why doesn't he call me?
Those bastards! That's proof enough right there of what we're up against. The whole goddamn Federal Government, Bill!
Well, they offered you the carrot, and you turned it down... you know what's coming next, don't you, boss?
Found another note, same thing, no name, no signature. "When you receive this, I will be quite dead, so no answer will be possible. I offered you love. All I got in return in the end was a kick in the teeth."
Jesus, they must've been hard pressed to come up with that one.
All right, all right. Break it up.
Where you going, boss?
I don't know, Bill, I just don't know.
I don't buy it, chief  why would the FBI cover it up? You're talking the whole FBI here. A telex that disappears from every single FBI office in the country?
There's a word  orders.
Shaw's our toehold, Bill. I don't know exactly what he is, where he fits, and I don't care. I do know he's lying through his teeth and I'm not gonna let go of him!
So for those reasons, you're going to trial against Clay Shaw, chief? Well, you're gonna lose! We should be investigating all our Mafia leads here in New Orleans  Carlos Marcello, Santos Trafficante  I can buy that a hell of a lot easier than the Government. Ruby's all Mob, knows Oswald, sets him up. Hoffa  Trafficante  Marcello, they hire some guns and they do Kennedy and maybe the Government doesn't want to open up a whole can o'worms there because it used the Mob to get to Castro. Y'know, Castro being assassinated sounds pretty wild to John Q. Citizen. So they close the book on J.F.K. It makes sense to me.
I don't doubt their involvement, Bill, but at a low level. Could the Mob change the parade route, Bill, or eliminate the protection for the President? Could the Mob send Oswald to Russia and get him back? Could the Mob get the FBI, the CIA, and the Dallas Police to make a mess of the investigation? Could the Mob appoint the Warren Commission to cover it up? Could the Mob wreck the autopsy? Could the Mob influence the national media to go to sleep? And since when has the Mob used anything but .38's for hits, up close? The Mob wouldn't have the guts or the power for something of this magnitude. Assassins need payrolls, orders, times, schedules. This was a militarystyle ambush from start to finish... a coup d'etat with Lyndon Johnson waiting in the wings.
Oh, now you're saying Lyndon Johnson was involved? The President of the United States?
I know this, Bill  Lyndon Johnson got $1 billion for his Texas friends, Brown and Root, to dredge Cam Ranh Bay for the military in Vietnam. That's just for openers.
Boss, are you calling the President a murderer?
If I'm so far from the truth, why is the FBI bugging our offices? Why are our witnesses being bought off and murdered? Why are Federal agencies blocking our extraditions and subpoenas when we were never blocked before?
Maybe 'cause there's some rogue element in the Government!
With a fullblown conspiracy to cover it up? Y'ever read your Shakespeare, Bill?
Yeah.
Julius Caesar: "Brutus and Cassius, they too are honorable men." Who killed Caesar? Twenty, twentyfive Senators. All it takes is one Judas, Bill  a few people, on the inside, Pentagon, CIA...
This is Louisiana, chief. How the hell do you know who your daddy is? 'Cause your momma told you so... You're way out there taking a crap in the wind, boss, and I for one ain't going along on this one. Jim sighs, saddened. Bill was one of his best men.
Clay Bertrand, Willie?
Yeah. Clay. I met him sometime in June of '62 at the Masquerade Bar. Dave Ferrie took me there, for the express reason to meet him.
Did he pay you for this?
Twenty dollars each time. Hell, it's no secret. That's what I'm here for.
...there were about nine or ten people, Cubans, friends of Dave doing some stuff in the bush with him. Place was a mess. Dave's mind was a mess, Y'know he had all those mice cages around cause he's working on this cure for cancer... Dave's smart  real smart  speaks five languages, knows philosophy, medicine, military history, politics. He wanted to be a priest but they defrocked him 'cause he was queer...
And that's where you met Oswald for the first time?
Yeah, strange guy. Dave introduced him as...
Fuck, yes. Hell, I'm already in jail. I got no reason to lie to you. I ain't no nigger.
Go on, Willie.
...well the party got crazier and crazier, one of those, y'know "beatnik" type things.
Clay Bertrand? Sure I know him. He comes around the Quarter.
Who is he, Joe? I've been to every bar, no one wants to talk.
I told your uncle I never met a lawman who wasn't a punk. You too, Bill, even if you're family. He's a big shot businessman. I seen him on the TV news a lot with all the other big shots. A fag, you know. Goes by another name down here.
What's the other name?
Shaw. Clay Shaw.
Clay Bertrand is Clay Shaw? The guy who used to run the International Trade Mart?
Yeah, what's the big mystery? Everybody down here knows the guy.
So why does he call himself Bertrand?
Who gives a shit what he calls himself?
Correct me if I'm wrong. I thought we were on the same side. What the hell business is it of theirs to say that?
Pretty fast, wasn't it. The way they let him go.
What do you think, Lou?
I'm just an investigator, Bill. I leave the theories to you lawyers.
You, Numa?
It's addressed to no one and no signature. "To leave this life is, for me, a sweet prospect. I find nothing in it that is desirable and on the other hand, everything that is loathsome."
Pretty flowery for Dave Ferrie.
The fact is he's gone, chief, and so's our case.
Not unless we go for Shaw now.
With whose testimony? Willie O'Keefe? A male prostitute. Jack Martini? A drunk? Vernon Bundy? A dope fiend. Shaw's got respect, the newspaper editors, the American Bar Association  they're not...
Yeah. They were seen together in Clinton in early September. The Civil Rights Movement was running a voter registration drive.
...rumor is Shaw, a local boy, was working on some arms deal to discredit the civil rights movement. No one really knows what they were doing there, but everyone sure saw 'em. They stood out like cottonballs. I got whites and blacks saw 'em, but last time I checked there was nothing illegal with registering to vote. We still got the Negro junkie, Vernon Bundy, saw 'em talkin' at the seawall near Lake Pontchartrain. But it's tough, boss  no one wants to talk about Shaw. He's...
You know you keep saying that.
Keep saying what?
You're not digging.
Bill.
Hey, where y'at, Frank? You're wasting your time here. Big Jim gave strict orders. No FBI allowed.
It's you I want to talk to, Bill.
Boss would fry me in hog fat if he knew...
Your boss got a serious problem, Bill. Real serious. We know what's been going on at your office
Yeah, I guess you do.
You've got nothin', Bill. I'm talking as a friend now. You're riding on the Titanic. Time to jump off before you get destroyed along with Garrison.
Frank, I don't want to hear it.
Senator Long set your boss up, my friend.
Who do you think fed him that information? Garrison's going down. We're talking your career here, Bill, your life. You're a young guy... we know you're working that Castro thing.
No, I'm not...
Yes, you are. Look we know Oswald didn't pull that trigger. Castro did. But if that comes out, there's gonna be a war, boy  millions of people are gonna die. That's a hell of a lot more important than Jim Garrison. Goddammit, look at me when I talk to you! You're too goddamn self opinionated, now shut up. If you got a brain in that thick skull of yours, listen to me. Listen real hard.
Maybe there's more to this, Susie. The CIA's keeping something from our enemies.
Yes, but we're talking about a dead warehouse employee of no political significance. Three years later and he's still classified? They gave us his grammar school records, a study of his pubic hairs... Put it in context, Bill, of what we know about Oswald. Lonely kid, no father, unstable childhood, high school dropout  wants to grow up and be a spy, joins the Marines at 17. He learns Russian, he acts overtly Marxist with two other marines, but he's stationed at a top secret base in Japan where U2 spy flights over Russia originate. He's discharged from the Marines supposedly because his mother's sick. He stays home 3 days, then with a $1500 ticket from a $203 bank account, he goes to Moscow...
I don't know if it's coincidence, but Oswald had a top security clearance and knew about the U2 program from his days at Atsugi Air Base in Japan. Six months after he arrives in Russia, Francis Gary Powers' U2 spy flight goes down in Russia. That plane was untouchable. Powers hinted that Oswald could've given the Russians enough data to hit it. As a direct result, the peace summit between Khrushchev and Eisenhower failed. I can't help thinking of that book Seven Days In May, maybe someone in our military didn't want the Peace Conference to happen, maybe Oswald was part of that. It gets weirder.
Susie, you're an assistant D.A., remember. Stick to what you can prove in court.
You want facts, Bill? Okay. From 1945 to '59 only two U.S. soldiers defect to Russia. From '59 to '60, seven defect, six return, one of them another Marine a month before Oswald. All of them young men made to seem poor, disenchanted.
Who?
Grab your socks and pull... Clay Bertrand is Clay Shaw...
No!... Shaw! Director of The Trade Mart? This is incredible.
Or a cover up! Jesus, Bill, don't you have enough proof of the FBI's complicity now?
Maybe I have a little more respect for this country's institutions than you do, Susie. You tell me how the hell you can keep a conspiracy going between the Mob, the CIA, FBI, and Army Intelligence and who knows what else, when you know you can't even keep a secret in this room between 12 people! We got leaks everywhere! We're going to trial here! What the hell do we really got? Oswald, Ruby, Banister, Ferrie are dead. Shaw  maybe he's an agent, I don't know, but as a covert operator in my book he's wide open for blackmail 'cause of his homosexuality.
All this blubbering over that sonofabitch! They're grieving like they knew the man. It makes me want to puke.
God's sake, chief. The President was shot.
A bullshit President! I don't see any weeping for all the thousands of Cubans that bastard condemned to death and torture at the Bay of Pigs. Where are all the tears for the Russians and Hungarians and Chinese living like slaves in prison camps run by Kennedy's communist buddies  All these damned peace treaties! I'm telling ya Jack, that's what happens when you let the niggers vote. They get together with the Jews and the Catholics and elect an Irish bleeding heart.
Chief, maybe you had a little too much to drink.
Bullshit! Bartender, another round... Here's to the New Frontier. Camelot in smithereens. I'll drink to that.
Well, the kid musta gone nuts, right? I said Oswald must've flipped. Just did this crazy thing before anyone could stop him, right?
I think I'll cut out here, chief. I gotta get home.
Get home my ass. We're going to the office, have another drink. I want some company tonight.
Who'd ever thought that goofy Oswald kid would pull off a stunt like an assassination? Just goes to show, you can never know about some people. Am I right, Jack? Well, bless my soul. Your eyes are as red as two cherries, Jack. Don't tell me we have another bleeding heart here. Hell, all these years I thought you were on my side.
Chief, sometimes I don't know whether you're kidding or not.
I couldn't be more serious, Jack. Those big red eyes have me wondering about your loyalty.
Who the hell opened my files! You've been looking through my private files, haven't you, you weasel?
You may not like this, chief, but you're beginning to act paranoid. I mean, you really are.
You found out about Dave Ferrie going to Texas today and you went through all my files to see what was going on. You're a goddamn spy.
Goddammit chief, why would I ever need to look in your files? I saw enough here this summer to write a book.
I always lock my files. And you were the only one here today... What do you mean, you son of a bitch?
You know what I mean. I saw a lot of strange things going on in this office this summer. And a lotta strange people.
Why you keep dancing on my head for, my man? We been thicker'n molasses pie since law school.
Because you keep conning me, Dean. I read your testimony to the Warren Commission and...
There you go. Grain of salt. Two sides to every coin.
You tell them the day after the assassination you were called on the phone by this "Clay Bertrand" and asked to fly to Dallas and be Lee Oswald's layer.
Right.
Now that's pretty important, Dean. You also told the FBI when you met him, he was six foot two. Then you tell the Commission he was five foot eight. How the hell did the man shrink like that, Dean?
They put the heat on, my man, just like you're doing. I gave'em anything that popped into my cabeza. Truth is, I never met the dude.
Yeah, she was pretty, all right, but not half as cute as you, Deano. You shoulda tried a legitimate line of business.
You can't ever say crime don't pay in Louisiana, Jim  only not as good as it used to. Good chowder, ain't it?
When did you first do business with this Bertrand?
Oh, I first heard these street cats jiving about him back in '56, '57 when I lived down in the Quarter.
Street cats?
Swishes. They swish, y'know. Young fags, you know. They'd come into my bureau needing help, no bread, and I'd say, hey man, I ain't Rockefeller, who gonna back you up? These cornmuffins go to the phone and dial...
What was his voice like?
You knew you weren't talking to some low life fag, you know. He had command of the king's English.
Did he pay?
Always  like tits on a pig. I wish I had a million of those bimbettes.
And Oswald?
Like I told to the Washington boys, Bertrand called that summer and asked me to help the kid upgrade his Marine discharge...
So you saw Oswald how many times?
Three, four. He came in with a few Cubano swishes one time I remember...
Recall any names?
Mario, Jose  they wear names like you and I wear clothes. Today the name is Candy, tomorrow it's Butsie. I wish I could help you, Jim.
Did you speak to Oswald in Dallas?
Hell, no! I told this Bertrand cat right off, this isn't my scene, man. I deal with muni court, I'm a hack in nigger town, that kid needs a hot dog.
Then how the hell did you get in the Warren Commission, Dean? Except through the phone records in the Dallas jail?
There were no phone records.
Of course there weren't. 'Cause they disappeared. And yet the Commission found you, Dean.
I don't know how they got to me. Maybe cause I repped him here. The Feebees run background checks. On my mama's breasts, man, that's all I got. There wasn't no conspiracy, Jim. If there were, why the hell didn't Bobby Kennedy prosecute it as Attorney General, he was his brother for Chrissake. How the fuck three people could keep a secret like that, I don't know. It was Oswald. He was a nut job. Faggot, y'know, hated this country.
Boss, Oswald impersonators? Sounds like James Bond now.
Al, you can't tell a mink from a coonskin unless you see the fur up close. Goddamn, Sam! If we don't start reading between the lines here! Y'all gotta start thinking on a different level  like the CIA does. We're through the looking glass. Here white is black and black is white.
If this is Oswald, it must be our third Oswald.
The interesting thing is the extent to which the Warren Commission went to make him a Communist. They got almost 150 pages and 130 exhibits of the report on this Mexico trip and the picture doesn't even match. I'm beginning to think the point of the Mexican episode was to lay the blame at Castro's door. If Oswald, or someone purporting to be Oswald, had gotten into Cuba, come back, then killed the President, the American public once again would've screamed for a Cuban invasion...
Susie, watch the language, would you please.
My instinct is that Ferrie is going to keep on deteriorating, and we'll end up getting more out of him when he finally cracks. If we call him now, he might freeze up and we could lose the best shot we've ever had.
I don't care if he was doing it with giraffes in the zoo, Numa, it's none of our business. Let's keep this side of it quiet, shall we?
When you're in a war, boss, you use every weapon you got.
Not one word. That's an order.
The U.S. Attorney in Washington "declines" to serve our subpoena on Allen Dulles, Charles Cabell, CIA Director Richard Helms, or any FBI agent we named.
Well, what do you expect from a pig but a grunt.
Without them, it's going to be near impossible, chief, to prove Shaw's connection to the CIA. We got the same problem with the governors. All of them. Reagan in California won't give us Brading, Ohio refuses Orville Townsend, Texas on Arcacha, and Nebraska on Sandra Moffet.
William Walter, the night clerk on duty here in the FBI office, gave me a copy of this. It went all over the country. Nothing was done, and the motorcade went ahead on schedule  and this wasn't even mentioned in the Warren Report! Read it, Al.
"Threat to assassinate President Kennedy in Dallas, Texas, November 2223. Information received by the Bureau has determined that a militant revolutionary group may attempt to assassinate President Kennedy on his proposed trip to Dallas, Texas, etc, etc..."
Gentlemen, I will not hear this. I value Bill as much as anyone here. We all need to make room for someone else's ideas, Lou, especially me. Maybe Oswald is what everyone says he is and I'm just plain dumb wrong.
I've seen him copying files, leaving here late at night.
Well, you're two up on me now.
Hey, you!
Huh?
There's a seat over there for you.
What's the idea?
I'd like to sit with myuhwifeif you don't mind.
Wife?
Yeah. Come oncome on!
Oh, excuse me. I was just tryin'you knowto make things pleasant.
What's up?
Looks like we're going to be stuck for a long time.
Say, Buddy
Travelin' like this, you kinda lose track of what's goin' on in the world.
Thanks.
If you wanna get anywhere nowadays, you gotta keep in touch with all the news, is what I always say.
That's right.
Take that story there, for instance. Be kinda sweet if we could collect that ten thousand smackers.
Yeahwouldn't it?
It's a lotta dough. If I was to run across that dame, you know what I'd do?
What?
I'd go fiftyfifty with you .
Why?
Cause I'm a guy that don't believe in hoggin' it, see? A bird that figures that way winds up behind the eight ball,[10] is what I always say.
What's on your mind?
Five G'sor I crab the works.
You're a pretty shrewd baby. We better get away from this gang. Talk this thing over privately.
Lucky thing, my running into you. Just the man I need.
You're not making any mistake, believe you me.
I can use a smart guy like you.
Say listen, when you're talkin' to old man Shapeley, you're talking to
Do you pack a gat?[11] A CLOSE VIEW of the TWO shows the smile dying on Shapeley's face. He looks up quickly.
Huh?
A gat! A gat! Got any fireworks on you?
Whyno
That's all right. I got a couple of machine guns in my suitcase. I'll let you have one of them.
Yeahthe "big boy"the Boss of the outfit.
You're not kidnapping her, are you?
What else, stupid! You don't think we're after that pennyante reward, do you? Ten thousand bucks? Chicken feed! We're holding her for a million smackers.
Say, look! I didn't know it was anything like this, seeand
What's the matter with you! Gettin' yellow?
But I'm a married man. I got a couple of kids. I can't get mixed up with
Shshsh! Soft pedal, you mug!before I What're you trying to do? Tell the whole world about it! Now listen, you're in this thingand you're staying in! Get me? You know too much.
I won't say anything. Honest, I won't.
Yeah ?How do I know? I gotta good mind to plug you. I shouldn't take any chances on you.
You can trust me, Mister. I'll keep my mouth shut.
Where do you live?
Orange, New Jersey.
Got a couple of kids, huh?
Yeah. Just babies.
You love them, don't you?
Oh, gee, Misteryou wouldn'tyou ain't thinkin' about
You'll keep your trap shut, all right.
SuresureI'll keep my trap shut. you can depend on me, Mister.
If you don'tEver hear of Bugs Dooley?
No.
Nice guy. Just like you. But he made a big mistake, one day. Got kind of talkative. Know what happened? His kid was found in the bottom of the river. A rock tied around its neck. Poor Bugs! He couldn't take it. Blew his brains out.
Gee! That musta been terrible. I guess he had it coming to him though. But don't you worry about me. I don't talk. I never talk. Take my word for it. Gee, I wouldn't want anything to happen to my kids.
Okay. Just remember that. Now beat it.
Oh, thanks, thanks, Mister. I always knew you guys were kindhearted.
Come on, scram! And stay away from that bus.
Sure. Anything you say.
There you gotrustin' people again. How many times did I tell you
He looked like an upright young feller to me, Ma.
Yeah. They're all upright till they walk out on you.
Said he was gonna stay a week.
Mebbe.
Worst comes to the worst, we got his car for security.
I don't trust him.
I told you! I told you, you couldn't trust him! He's gone!
Who?
That feller last night, that's who! He was gonna stay a week, huh? Well, he's skipped. Took the car with him, too. We wouldn't have known a thing about it until morning if I hadn't took that magnesia. Come on, get up, don't lay there. Let's do something about it.
See that. They're gone!
Looks like it, don't it? Here's the woman, ma.
Oh!!
Thenyou'll have to git !
Yeah, you'll have to git .
Not a minute!
Better start gettin' into your clothes.
Yeah.
Zeke. Git!
Yes, Ma.
You send telegrams here?
I'm just fine thanks, and how are you? To "Joe Gordon, care of New York Mail, New York. Am I laughing. The biggest scoop of the year just dropped in my lap. I know where Ellen Andrews is" No, do you really?
Go on. Go on send the telegram.
"How would you like to have the story, you big tub ofof"
Mush. Mush.
"Tub of mush. Well try and get it. What I said about never writing another line for you still goes. Are you burning? Peter Warne." Well, that will be $2.60.
Send it collect.
Collect?
Collect.
Funny couple, ain't they?
Yeah.
If you ask me, I don't believe they're married.
They're married all right. I just seen the license.
They made me get 'em a rope and a blanket, on a night like this.
Yeah?
What do you reckon that's for?
Blamed if I know. I just brung 'em a trumpet.
A trumpet?
Yeah. You know, one of those toy things. They sent me to the store to get it.
But what in the world do they want a trumpet for?
I dunno.
All I'm asking is enough gas to get me to New York. The bag's worth twentyfive dollars.
Yeah, but I got a bag. My wife gave me one for Christmas.
Listen, manI'll tell you what I'll do. When I come back in the morning, I'll buy it back from you and give you ten dollars profit? What do you say?
ain't got a hat
What?
I ain't got a hat.
Well, you got one now. Come on, fill 'er up.
Say, listen, you wouldn't know a story if it reached up and kicked you in the pants. Yeah? Sure, sure, I got your copy. Why didn't you tell me you were going to write it in Greek? I'd start a new department.
That was free verse, you gashouse palooka!
Free verse, huh? What the dickens was free about it? It cost this paper a gob of dough. Well, I'm here to tell you, it's not gonna cost us any more.
That's okay by me! 'Cause as far as I'm concerned, I'm through with newspapers! See? I'm through with stupidity! I'll never write another newspaper story, for you or anybody else, if I have to starve. Yeah? What about my novel! When I get through with that
When you get through with that, I'll have a beard down to my ankles.
Get out of here!
Wait a minute, GordonI
Get out!
Joe, listen
Don't "Joe" me.
Okay, Joe. Listenyou know I've always liked you. Anytime I could do you a great turnanytime I ran into a story that looked goodI always came running to you, didn't I? Well, I got one now. Those wires I sent you were on the level. It's the biggest scoop of the year. I'm giving it to you, Joe.
You mean about the Andrews' kid?
That's it. I got it all written up. Ready to go. All I want is a thousand dollars.
A thousand dollars! Get out of this office before I throw you out bodily.
Don't get sore, Joe. This is something you got to do for me. I need a thousand dollarsand I need it quick. I'm in a jam.
What's the thousand bucks for?
To tear down the Walls of Jericho.
What!
Never mind . . . Listensuppose I should tell you that Ellen Andrews is going to have her marriage annulled.
Huh?
That she's going to marry somebody else.
You're drunk.
Would an exclusive story like that be worth a thousand bucks to you?
If it's on the level.
Well, I got it, Joe.
Who's she gonna marry?
It's all right here. Give me the thousand and it's yours.
I wouldn't trust you as far as I could throw that desk.
Wait a minute, Joe. Use your bean. I couldn't afford to hand you a phoney yarn, like that. I'd be crazy. There isn't a newspaper in the country'd give me a job after that! I could go to jail!
I'd put you there myself.
Sure. I wouldn't blame you, either.
Who's the guy she's gonna marry?
I am, Joe.
You!
Yeah.
Now I know you're drunk. I'm going home. Don't annoy me any more.
For heaven's sake, Joestop being an editor for just a minute. We've been friends for a long time, haven't we? You ought to know when I'm serious. This is on the level.
I met her on a bus coming from Miami. Been with her every minute. I'm in love with her, Joe.
Well, I'll be
Listen, Palyou've got to get this money for me. Now. Minutes count. She's waiting for me in an auto camp outside of Philadelphia. I've got to get right back. You see, she doesn't know I'm gone. A guy can't propose to a girl without a cent in the world, can he?
Thanks, Pal. You saved my life.
Okay, pete.
'Bye, Agnes. You're beautiful. All women are beautiful! Gordon is immediately electrified into action.
Oh, boy! What a yarn! What a yarn! Get me Hank on the phone. Gotta hold up the morning edition.
Hello, Joe. Sorry. Just a little gag of mine. Thought I'd have some fun with you.
Yeah. Sure. Had me going for a while.
Wouldn't have made a bad story, would it?
Great! But that's the way things go. You think you got a swell yarnthen something comes alongmesses up the finishand there you are.
Yeah, where am I?
When you sober upcome in and see me.
Thanks, Joe.
Mr. Gordon
Huh?
Did you know he reversed the charges on that call?
What! Say, listen you! When you get back to New York, take my advice and stay far away from this officeunless you don't care what happens to that funny map of yours.
Here's another wire from Peter Warne.
Throw it in the basket. What's it say? "Have I got a story! It's getting hotter and hotter. Hope you're the same."
Collect?
Yes.
Don't accept any more.
What's up?
Bridge washed outaround Dawson.
Any of your passengers want a place to sleepthere's an auto camp up yonder a piece.
Yeah? Where?
Up yonder. See the lights?
Yeah.
That's it. Dyke's Auto Camp.
Thanks.
The old man's screwy!
What's 'at?
I said, the old man's screwy!
Yeah!
The dame's too smart for him.
How'd you like to be married to a wild cat like that?
Do you mind taking those things off the Walls of Jericho? It's tough enough as it is.
Oh, excuse me.
Oh, by the waywhat's your name?
What's that?
I've been thinking about you.
Yes?
You've had a pretty tough break at that. Twice a Missus and still unkissed.
Heyyou not up yet? Come oncome on!
What time is it?
Eight o'clock.
I'm hungry.
Just your imagination.
You made no mistake sitting next to me. Just between us, the kinda muggs you meet on a hop like this ain't nothing to write home to the wife about. You gotta be awful careful who you hit up with, is what I always say, and you can't be too particular, neither. Once when I was comin' through North Carolina, I got to gabbin' with a goodlookin' mama. One of those young ones, you know, and plenty classy, too. Kinda struck my fancy. You know how it is. Well, sir, you could'a knocked me over with a Mack truck. I was just warming up when she's yanked offa the bus. Who do you think she was? Huh? Might as well give up. The girl bandit! The one the papers been writin' about. Yessir, you coulda knocked me over with a Mack truck. What's the matter, sister? You ain't sayin' much.
Seems to me you're doing excellently without any assistance.
That's pretty good . . . Well, shut my big nasty mouth!
But I don't go in for that kinda stuffmuch. I like to pick my fillies. Take you, for instance. You're my type. No kiddin' sister. I could go for you in a big way. "Funontheside Shapeley" they call me, and the accent is on the fun, believe you me.
Believe you me, you bore me to distraction.
Hey, what's this? Wearing Papa's things? Now that's cute. That's what I call real loveydovey. Yessir.
If you don't get out of here, I'll slap that fresh mouth of yours.
SorryI didn't mean to
Get out!
Okay. I was just trying to make conversation.
What's the matter? Where's your husband, young lady
Husband?
Yesif he is your husband.
Isn't he here?
No, he ain't! And the car's gone, too.
Why, he'll be back.
Yeah? What makes you think so! He took his suitcase and everything. Kinda surprised, huh? It's just like I told you, Zeke. They ain't married a'tall . . .
Why, you can't put me out in the middle of the
Serves you right. Oughta be careful who you take up with on the road. You can't go plyin' your trade in my camp.
But can't you wait until morning
Ain't gonna wait a minute.
Can I use your telephone? I want to talk to New York.
You ain't gonna stick me for no phone calls. You can go down to the Sheriff's office.
Here's your ticket, ma'am.
Oh, thank you. Thank you very much. Here.
Oh, thank you. Thank you.
When does the bus leave?
In about fifteen minutes.
Thank you.
Where's the bus to New York?
Left twenty minutes ago.
Why, that's ridiculous! I was on that busI told them to wait!
Sorry, Miss. It's gone. Ellie's face clouds. The crowds surge about her. She looks around thoughtfully. Suddenly her eyes open in surprise at something she sees, and the VIEW then moves over to Peter, who sits on his suitcase, looking toward Ellie.
Eight o'clock tonight.
Eight o'clock! Why, that's twelve hours!
Sorry, Miss.
How are you, Ellie? Are you happy?
Happy? Why shouldn't I be happy? I'm getting the handsomest man in captivity. Here you are, King. Let's drink. Let's drink to us . We finally made it, didn't we?
You bet we did.
It's up to you now. I want our life to be full of excitement, King. We'll never let up, will we? Never a dull moment. We'll get on a merrygoround and never get off. Promise you'll never let me get off? It's the only way to live, isn't it? No time to think. We don't want to stop to think, do we? Just want to keep going.
Whatever you say, darling.
I heard about your stunt. That's swell, King. Just think of itthe groom lands on the lawn with a plane. It's a perfect beginning for the life we're going to lead. It sets just the right tempo. Come on, King. You're lagging.
Compared to you, my friend, Shapeley's an amateur. Whatever gave you an idea you can get away with this! You're positively the most conceited
Hey, wait a minute! Let's get something straightened out right now. If you've any peculiar ideas that I'm interested in you, forget it. You're just a headline to me.
A headline? You're not a newspaper man, are you?
I'll bet you're in an awful hurry to get back to New York, aren't you?
Goodnight, Mr. Warne.
ONETWOTHREEFOURFIVE
Why, you bully. I believe you would.
sixseveneightnine
I'm out! I'm out!
Maybe I could jump out of the window. Do you think they'd see me?
Come here, you little fool!
There's a man here to see you, Sweetheart.
Whome? Want to see me?
No, it isn't. I'm hungry andand scared.
You can't be hungry and scared at the same time.
Well, I am.
Comical part of it is, it isn't what you want at all. In a couple of weeks you'll be looking for the nearest exit . . . People like you spend all your life on a merrygoround. I guess that's what makes you so dizzy. You're always chasing after something. At least you think you are. Truth is, you're just running away. From yourself, mostly. 'Cause you're miserable. You hate yourself. The world's full of people like you. Don't know what they want.
Do you know?
I just want to be let alone, that's all. Life's swell if you don't try too hard. Most people want to get a stranglehold on it. They're not living. They're just feverish. If they didn't get themselves all balled up with a lot of manufactured values, they'd find what they want. Peace and calm. When you get right down to it, what's all the shootin' for, will you tell me? After all, you can only eat three meals a day, only sleep in one bed Right now, that hay feels pretty good to you, doesn't it? Sure it does. 'Cause you were tiredand it's the only thing around.
You sound like a hobo.
Is that the Walls of Jericho going up?
Yep! The Walls of Jericho.
No harm in your coming to see us.
Not interested.
Won't I ever see you again?
I beg your pardon!
Now, listen. I'm in a very ugly mood. I put up a stiff battle for that seat. So if it's just the same to you scram.
Driver!
Tell that man not to drive so fast.
Are you talking to me?
Yes. Tell that man to drive slowly.
I don't know what you're raving about, young man. And, furthermore, I'm not interested.
Wellof all thewell Maybe you'll be interested to know your bag's gone.
Oh, my heavens! It's gone!
Yeah. I knew you'd catch on eventually.
What happened?
That cadaverouslooking yegg who sat in front of us, just up and took it. Boy, how that baby can run!
What am I going to do now?
Don't tell me your ticket was in it?
No, I've got that, all right. But my money. All I have here is four dollars. I've got to get to New York with it.
You can wire home for some money when we get to Jacksonville.
Why, noI Yes . . . I guess I will.
I'll report it to the driver. About your bag, I mean.
No. I'd rather you didn't.
Don't be a fool. You lost your bag. The company'll make good. What's your name?
I don't want it reported!
Why, that's ridiculous! They're responsible for everything that
See here, can you understand English! I don't want it reported! Please stay out of my affairs! I want to be left alone. A CLOSEUP of PETER shows him glaring after her.
Why, you ungrateful brat!
Oh, thank you. We're in Jacksonville, aren't we?
Yes.
That was foolish of me. Why didn't you shove me away?
I hated to wake you up. How about some breakfast?
No, thank you. Thank you so much.
Remember me? I'm the fellow you slept on last night.
Seems to me I've already thanked you for that. What time is the next bus to New York?
What's the matter? Wouldn't the old meanies wait for you? Say, how old are you anyway? Don't you know these busses work on a schedule? You need a guardian.
What are you excited about? You missed the bus, too.
Don't tell me you did it on my account! hope you're not getting any idea that what happened last night is You needn't concern yourself about me, young man. I can take care of myself.
You're doing a pretty sloppy job of it. Here's your ticket.
My ticket?
I found it on the seat.
Oh, thank you. Must have fallen out of my pocket.
You'll never get away with it, Miss Andrews.
What are you talking about?
Just a spoiled brat of a rich man. You and Westley'll make an ideal team.
Will you please tell me what you're raving about!
You'll never get away with it, Miss Andrews. Your father'll stop you before you get half way to New York.
You must have me confused with
Quit kidding! It's all over the front pages, You know, I've always been curious about the kind of a girl that would marry King Westley.
Take my advicegrab the first bus back to Miami. That guy's a phony.
I didn't ask for your advice.
That's right. You didn't.
You're not going to notify my father, are you?
What for?
If you play your cards right, you might get some money out of it.
I never thought of that.
Listen, if you'll promise not to do it, I'll pay you. I'll pay you as much as he will. You won't gain anything by giving me away as long as I'm willing to make it worth your while. I've got to get to New York without being stopped. It's terribly important to me. I'd pay now, only the only thing I had when I jumped off the yacht was my wrist watch and I had to pawn that to get these clothes. I'll give you my address and you can get in touch with me the minute you get to New York.
Never mind. You know I had you pegged right from the start, you're the spoiled brat of a rich father. The only way you can get anything is to buy it. Now you're in a jam and all you can think of is your money. It never fails, does it? Ever hear of the word "Humility"? No, you wouldn't. I guess it never occurred to you to just say, "Please mister, I'm in trouble. Will you help me?" No; that'd bring you down off your high horse for a minute. Let me tell you something; maybe it'd take a load off your mind. You don't have to worry about me. I'm not interested in your money or your problems. You, King Westley, your father, you're all a lot of hooey to me.
If you promise not to snap my head off, I'd like to thank you.
Forget it. I didn't do it for you. His voice got on my nerves.
Here, boy!
What'd you do? Wire one of your friends for money?
No. It'd be useless. Father'd get the wire before they would.
Of course I do. What do you mean
Beat it!
You have your nerve! Here, boy!
A dollar sixty! . . . You had four dollars last night! How do you expect to get to New York at the rate you're going?
That's none of your business.
You're on a budget from now on.
Now, just a minuteyou can't
Shut up!
Hey, Brat! The VIEW moves to the rear door of the bus. Ellie stands on the bottom step.
Are you talking to me!
Yeah. Come onwe're stopping here for the night.
Darn clever, these Armenians.
Yeah. Yeah, it's a gift.
I just had the unpleasant sensation of hearing you referred to as my husband.
Oh, I forgot to tell you. I registered as Mr. and Mrs.
Oh, you did? What am I expected to doleap for joy?
I kind of half expected you to thank me.
Your ego is colossal.
Yeah. Yeah, not bad. How's your's?
Chalk up one for your side. Now listen, you want to get to King Westley, don't you? All right, I'm here to help you. What I want is your story, exclusive. A dayto day account. All about your mad flight to happiness. I need that story. Just between you and me I've got to have it.
Now isn't that just too cute? There's a brain behind that face of yours, isn't there? You've got everything nicely figured out, for yourself, including this.
This? Oh, that's a matter of simple mathematics. These cabins cost two bucks a night and I'm very sorry to inform you, wifey dear, but the family purse won't stand for our having separate establishments.
Well, thank you. Thank you very much, but you've been very kind.
Oh, yeah? It's all right with me. Go on out in the storm, but I'm going to follow you, see? Yeah. And if you get tough I'll just have to turn you over to your old man right now. Savvy? Now that's my whole plot in a nutshell. A simple story for simple people. Now if you behave yourself, I'll see that you get to King Westley; if not, I'll just have to spill the beans to papa. Now which of these beds do you prefer? This one? All right.
That, I suppose, makes everythinguhquite all right.
Oh, this?I like privacy when I retire. I'm very delicate in that respect. Prying eyes annoy me. Behold the walls of Jericho![4] Maybe not as thick as the ones that Joshua blew down with his trumpet, but a lot safer. You see, I have no trumpet. Now just to show you my heart's in the right place, I'll give you my best pair of pajamas.
Do you mind joining the Israelites?
You're not really serious about this, are you?
All right, don't join the Israelites. Perhaps you're interested in how a man undresses. Funny thing about that. Quite a study in psychology. No two men do it alike.
I have an idiosyncrasy all my own. You'll notice my coat came firstthen the tiethen the shirtnow, according to Hoyle,[5] the pants should come next. But that's where I'm different. go for the shoes first. After that I
Smart aleck!
Do you mind putting out the light?
Not at all.
Who are you?
Who, me? Why, I'm the whippoorwill that cries in the night. I'm the soft morning breeze that caresses your lovely face.
You've got a name, haven't you?
Yeah. I got a name. Peter Warne.
Peter Warne? I don't like it.
Don't let it bother you. You're giving it back to me in the morning.
Pleased to meet you, Mr. Warne ...
The pleasure is all mine.
Here
What is it? Why, it's a toothbrush! Thanks. Youyou had it pressed.
Come on! Hurry up! Breakfast'll be ready in no time.
Why, you sweet thing, you. Where'd you get it pressed?
Listen, BratI'm going to count to ten. If you're not out of bed by then I'm going to yank you out myself.
You'll find the showersand thingsright back of the second cottage.
Outside!
Certainly, outside. All the best homes have 'em outside.
I can't go out like this.
Like what?
Like this. I have no robe.
Heretake mine.
Where'd you say the showersand thingswere?
Heyyou're little, aren't you?
Where is the shower?
Your hair's cute like that. You should never comb it.
I'll find it myself.
High time you got back.
I met some very interesting women at the showers. We got to chatting about this and that. You know how time files.
Very outspoken, too. Said I looked funny. Wasn't that cute?
Hurry up and get dressed.
Why, Peter! Don't you want to hear about our lovely friends?
If you didn't waste so much time on that wisecracking drummerwe'd have been through with breakfast by this time.
Well, I hope you're not going to dictate whom I can talk to.
I know a couple of truck drivers I'd like to have you meet sometime. Come on, sit down.
Thank you. My, my! Scrambled eggs.
Egg. One eggdoughnutsblack coffee. That's your ration till lunch. Any complaints?
Nope. No complaints.
I'd have gotten you some cream but it meant buying a whole pint.
Why, you don't have to apologize, Mr. Warne. You'll never know how much I appreciate all this.
What makes you so disgustingly cheerful this morning?
Must be the Spring.
I thought maybeuh"believe you me" told you a couple of snappy stories.
He apologized for last night. Said he didn't know we were married.
Just shows you how wrong a guy can be. Doughnut?
Thanks. You think this whole business is silly, don't you? I mean running away and everything.
No. No. It's too good a story.
Yes, you do. You think I'm a fool and a spoiled brat. Perhaps I am, although I don't see how I can be. People who are spoiled are accustomed to having their own way. I never have. On the contrary, I've always been told what to do and how to do it and where and with whom. Would you believe it? This is the first time I've ever been alone with a man!
Yeah?
It's a wonder I'm not panic stricken.
Um. You're doing all right.
Thanks. Nurses, governesses, chaperones, even bodyguards. Oh, it's been a lot of fun.
One consolation; you can never be lonesome.
It has its moments. It got to be a sort of game to try to outwit father's detectives. II did it once; actually went shopping without a bodyguard. It was swell. I felt absolutely immoral. But it didn't last long. They caught up with me in a department store. I was so mad I ran out the back way and jumped into the first car I saw. Guess who was in it?
Santa Claus?
KingKing Westley was in it.
Oh. Is that how you met him?
Umhm. We rode around all afternoon. Father was frantic. By 6 o'clock he was having all the rivers dragged.
Say, where did you learn to dunk, in finishing school?
Aw, now, don't you start telling me I shouldn't dunk.
Of course you shouldn't. You don't know how to do it. Dunking's an art. Don't let it soak so long. A dip and plop, into your mouth. If you let it soak so long, it'll get soft and fall off. It's all a matter of timing. I ought to write a book about it.
Thanks, professor.
Just goes to show you. Twenty millions and you don't know how to dunk.
I'd change places with a plumber's daughter any day.
Detectives!
That's Father at work, What'll I do? Peter, what'll I do?
Don't look at me. I didn't marry King Westley.
Yeah. I got a letter from Aunt Betty. She says if we don't stop over at WilkesBarre she'll never forgive us.
What are you talking about?
Don't get excited, Peter. They just asked a civil question.
There you go again! How many times did I tell you to stop butting in when I have an argument?
Well, you don't have to lose your temper!
You don't have to lose your temper! That's what you told me the last time too. Every time I step in to protect you. At the Elk's dance[7] when that big Swede made a pass at you
He didn't make a pass at me! I told you a million times!
Oh, so now I was drunk!
Well, you were!
I'm sorry I didn't take another sock at him.
Yeah, and gotten yourself arrested!
Aw, nuts! You're just like your old man! Once a plumber always a plumber! There isn't an ounce of brains in your whole family!
Peter Warne, you've gone far enough. I won't stand being insulted like this another minute.
Say, you were pretty good. Jumping in like that. Got a brain, haven't you?
You weren't so bad yourself.
We could start a twoperson stock company. If things get toughwe can play some small town auditoriums. We'll call this one "The Great Deception."[8]
Next week "East Lynne."
After that "The Three Musketeers." I'd make a great D'Artagnan.
How about Cinderellaor a real hot love story?
No mushy stuff. I'm running this troupe.
Oh, you are! Who made you the manager?
I did! It was my idea, wasn't it?
You always want to run everything.
If you don't like it, you can resign from the company.
I refuse to resign!
Then I'll fire you. I'll do all the parts myself.
I better go over and see her.
Don't be silly. Nothing you can do. Must be tough on an old womana trip like this.
Yes.
Poor old Shapeley. You shouldn't have frightened him like that.
At the rate he started, he's probably passed two state lines by this time. The exercise is good for him.
Yes, I noticed he was getting a little fat lately. Ouch!
What's the matter?
I was never built for these moonlight strolls. Why did we have to leave the bus?
I don't trust that chatterbox.
First town we hit in the morning, you better wire your father.
Not as long as I'm alive.
Okay with me, if you can stand the starvation diet.
What do you meanstarvation?
It takes money to buy food.
Why, haven't you?
Not a sou. I had some before the fainting scene.
You didn't give that boy all your money?
I didn't give him anything . You were the bighearted gal. How about wiring your father now?
Never! I'll get to New York if I have to starve all the way.
Must be some strange power Westley has over you women. How do you expect to get there?
To New York?
Yeah.
I'm following you.
Aren't you afraid of me?
No.
Okay. Hang on to these.
I wish you'd stop being playful.
Sorry. It's the first time I've ridden "piggyback" in years.
This isn't "piggyback."
Of course it is.
You're crazy.
remember distinctly Father taking me for a "piggyback" ride
And he carried you like this, I suppose.
Yes.
Your father didn't know beans about "piggyback" riding.
My uncleMother's brotherhad four children . . . and I've seen them ride "piggyback."
I don't think there's a "piggy back" rider in your whole family. I never knew a rich man yet who was a good "piggyback" rider.
That's silly.
To be a "piggybacker" it takes complete relaxationa warm heartand a loving nature.
And rich people have none of those qualifications, I suppose.
Not a one.
You're prejudiced.
Show me a good "piggyback" rider and I'll show you somebody that's human. Take Abraham Lincoln, for instancea natural "piggybacker." Where do you get off with your stuffedshirt family? Why, your father knew so much about "piggyback" riding that he
This looks like the best spot.
We're not going to sleep out here, are we?
I don't know about you, but I'm going to give a fairly good imitation of it.
Peter
What?
If you're scared it scares the hunger out of you.
Not if you're more hungry than scared.
All right. You win. Let's forget it.
I can't forget it. I'm still hungry.
Holy Smokes! Why did I ever get mixed up with you!
I'll get my clothes all wrinkled.
Well, take them off.
What!
All right! Don't take them off. Do whatever you please. But shut up about it.
What's the matter?
Oh, Peter
What's got into you?
Oh, Peter! I was so scared.
I wasn't gone more than a minute. Just went out to find you something to eat.
knowbut
Here. Eat your head off.
I don't want it now.
Thought you were hungry!
wasbut
But what!
was so scaredthat it scared
Holy Jumping Catfish! You can drive a guy crazy.
Sure.
What?
Nothing. Nothing you'd give two cents for.
Try me.
I am. I only work when I have to. Two years ago I got a notion and went to China. There was a war going on. Swell! After a while it got stale. I went down to Tahiti. Just lay on the beach for six months. What could be sweeter?
Doesn't sound very exciting.
What are you thinking about?
By a strange coincidence, I was thinking of you.
Really?
Yeah. I was just wondering what makes dames like you so dizzy.
What'd you say we're supposed to be doing?
Hitchhiking.
Well, you've given me a very good example of the hiking
If it's just the same to you, we'll sit right here till they come. Got a toothpick?
No. But I've got a penknife.
Hayin my teeth.
There it is. Better swallow it. We're not going to have any breakfast.
Needn't rub it in. What're you eating?
Carrots.
Raw?
Uhhuh. Want one?
No!! It's a wonder you couldn't get me something I can eat.
You don't think I'm going around panhandling for you. Best thing in the world for youcarrots. Had a tough time getting them. If that farmer ever caught megoodnight!
I hate the horrid stuff.
I wish you wouldn't talk too much. We let a car get away.
What if nobody stops for us?
Oh, they'll stop, all right. It's a matter of knowing how to hail them.
You're an expert, I suppose.
Expert! Going to write a book on it. Called the "HitchHikers Hail."
There's no end to your accomplishments.
You think it's simple, huh?
Oh, no!
Well, it is simple. It's all in the thumb, see? A lot of people do it
But the thumb always works. Different ways to do it, though. Depends on how you feel. For instance, number one is a short, jerky movement That shows independence. You don't care if they stop or not. 'Cause you got some money in your pocket, see?
Clever.
Number two is a wider movementa smile goes with that onelike this. That means you got a couple of brand new stories about the farmer's daughter.[12]
You figured that all out yourself, huh?
Oh, that's nothing. Now take number three, for instance. That's a pip. It's the pathetic one. When you're brokeand hungryand everything looks black. It's a long movement like this with a follow through.
Amazing.
Hm? Yeah, but it's no good if you haven't got a long face with it.
Here comes a car!
Now watch me. I'm going to use Number One. Keep your eye on that thumb, baby, and see what happens.
Something must have gone wrong. I guess I'll try number two.
When you get up to a hundred, wake me up.
I guess maybe I won't write that book after all.
Yes. But look at all the fun you had. Mind if I try?
You! Don't make me laugh.
You're such a smart aleck! Nobody can do anything but you. I'll show you how to stop a carand I won't use my thumb.
What're you going to do?
Mind your own business.
You might give me a little credit.
What for?
I proved once and for all that the limb is mightier than the thumb.
Why didn't you take all your clothes off? You could have stopped forty cars.
We don't need forty cars.
What were you going to do? Gold dig him for a meal?[13]
Why not? I'm hungry.
Eat a carrot.
Never! I'm going in and ask him
If you do, I'll break your neck.
Oh, Peter! What happened? Are you all right?
Come onget in.
Oh, you've been hurt! There's a cut on
Come on! come on!
What happened?
Just a road thief. Picks people up and runs off with their stuff. What a racket!
What'd you give him for the car?
A black eye.
You don't have to eat the carrots. Just passed a pond with some ducks in it.
Darling!
Any luck?
Yeah. He finally agreed to let us have a room.
What about money?
Talked him out of it. He thinks we're going to stay a week. I'll have to think of something before morning.
That's swell!
I'm glad you think so. If you ask me, it's foolish. I told you there's no sense in our staying here tonight. We could make New York in less than three hours.
I couldn't arrive in New York at three in the morning. Everybody's in bed.
Okay. Cottage Number Three.
Yes. You'll have a great story, won't you?
Yeah, swell.
Thank you. Am I going to see you in New York?
Nope.
Why not?
Haven't you ever wanted to fall in love?
Me?
Yes. Haven't you thought about it at all? Seems to me you could make some girl wonderfully happy.
Maybe. Suresure, I've thought about it. Who hasn't? If I ever met the right sort of a girl, I'd Yeah, but where you going to find hersomebody that's realsomebody that's alive? They don't come that way any more.
Better go back to your bed.
I love you.
You're forgetting you're married.
I don't care. I love you. Nothing else matters. We can run away. Everything'll take care of itself. Please, Peter. You can't go out of my life now. I couldn't live without you. Oh, Peter
I hope you got your money.
You bet I did.
Congratulations.
Same to you.
Why don't you stay and watch the fun? You'll enjoy it immensely.
I would. But I've got a weak stomach.
Whadda you want!
If you'll be good enough to remove those newspapers I'll have a seat.
Okay! Okay! Keep your shirt on, young feller.
Just between you and me, I never intended taking it off.
What do you think you're doing!
Huh?
The papers! The papers! Whadda you mean throwin' 'em out!
Ohthe papers
That's a long story, my friend. You see, I don't like sitting on newspapers. I did once and all the headlines came off on my white pants.
Hey, whadda you tryin' to dokid me?
Oh, I wouldn't kid you . On the level, it actually happened. Nobody bought a paper that day. They followed me all over town and read the news from the seat of my pants.
What're you gonna do about the papers? Somebody's gotta pick 'em up.
It's okay with me. I'm not arguing.
Fresh guy, huh! What you need is a good sock on the nose.
Look here, partner. You may not like my nose. But I do. It's a good nose. The only one I've got. I always keep it out in the open where anybody can take a sock at it. If you decide to do it, make sure you don't miss.
Oh, yeah?
Now, that's a brilliant answer. Why didn't I think of it? Our conversation could have been over long ago.
Oh, yeah?
You win!
Driver!
Yeah?
These seats accommodate two passengers, don't they?
Maybe they doand maybe they don't.
That storm sure made a mess outa these roads.
Holy Smokes! You'll never get out yourself! Better phone for some help.
Phone for help? We're right in the middle of nowhere. There isn't a town within ten miles of here.
Hey, hey, aren't you afraid you'll burn out a tonsil?
Tonsil? Me? No! Me burn a tonsil? "My tonsils won't burn As life's corners I . . .
All right, let it go.
. . . turn."
No, thanks. We're not hungry.
Oh, I see, young people in love are never hungry.
No.
"Young people in love Are very seldom hungry. People in love Are very seldom hungry . . ."
Never mind, son. She doesn't want it.
But the lady says
We ain't ate nothin' since yestidday.
What happened to your money?
Ma spent it all for the tickets. She didn't know it was gonna be so much. We shouldn'a come, I guess, but Ma said there's a job waitin' for her in New Yorkand if we didn't go, she might lose it.
Going without food is bad business, son. Why didn't you ask somebody?
I was gonna do it, but Ma wouldn't let me. She was ashamed, I guess.
Me? Forget it, son. I got millions.
Thanks.
Here's another wire, sir. This one's from Charleston. "Checking every northbound train. Also assigned twenty operatives to watch main highways. No success yet. Will continue to do everything possible." Signed: Lovington Detective Agency, Charleston.
Any others?
Yessir. There's a report here from every State along the East coast. Want to hear them?
What do they say?
They're practically all the same, sir.
Amateurs!
They're the finest detective agency in the country, sir.
Don't want to talk todon't want to talk to anybody. Don't want to see anybody.
But it's King Westley on the phone.
Ooooooh. Hello my wouldbe exsoninlaw. I've sent you a check for a hundred thousand. Yes. That's the smartest thing you ever did, Westley, not to contest that annulment. That's satisfactory, isn't it? Yeah. Well, it ought to be. Oh I'm not complaining. It was dirt cheap. Don't fall out of any windows.
There's another wire from Peter, sir. They're in Glen Falls, Michigan.
"What's holding up the annulment, you slow poke? The Walls of Jericho are toppling." Send him a telegram right away. Just say: "Let 'em topple."
I haven't changed my mind, Westley, I want you to understand that! I don't like you! I never have! I never will! That's clear enough, isn't it?
You've made that quite evidentwith all your threats of annulment. Well, it hasn't bothered me for a minute. Ellie and I got married because we love each other. And she's proving it; as far as I'm concerned there's going to be no annulment.
You've got a good thing and you're hanging on to it, huh? All right, You win. I'll just have to get used to you. I admit I'm licked. But only because I'm worried. I've had detectives all over the country searching for her. I've seen thousands of photographs. Fortune tellers, nuts, every crank in the country has written me. Haven't slept one night this week. If I don't find her, I'll go crazy.
Why; naturally, I
Naturally. You're going to become a partner in a big institution. It's one of the largest in the world.
You talk as if
Someday perhaps, you might even take charge.
Ellie? Oh, she's no responsibility.
No? Say, listenI've devoted a whole lifetime trying to tame that wildcat. Toughest job I ever tackled. Ever hear of J.P. Clarkson? Biggest man in the country, isn't he? Well, I tamed him . Got him eating out of the palm of my hand. I've browbeaten financiers, statesmen, foreign ministerssome of the most powerful people in the worldbut I've never been able to do a thing with her. She's been too much for me. I'm glad you think it's easy. Now listenif you'll do what I tell you, perhaps I might develop a little respect for you. You never can tell.
What would you like to have me do?
Sock her!
Try. Do me a favor. Try. It's your only chance. And hers, too. Do that for meand maybe we'll be friends Maybe. Do we understand each other?
Yes, sir.
Fine. I'll see you at the reception.
You thought that up all by yourself, huh?
Why, it'll make all the front pages. A spectacular thing like that
Personally, I think it's stupid! But go ahead. Have a good time. As long as Ellie doesn't object.
Oh, no. She'll be crazy about it. Well, see you later. I'm going out on the lawn and arrange for landing space. Goodbye.
We've done that already.
Yes, of course.
What happened?
I haven't the slightest idea.
On a hunger strike, huh? When'd she eat last?
She hasn't had a thing yesterdayor today.
Been sending her meals in regularly?
Yessir. She refuses them all.
Why didn't you jam it down her throat?
It's not quite that simple. I've dealt with prisoners in my time, but this one
Absurd! All this fuss over a snip of a girl. I'm going down to see her myself.
It's my daughter! Go after her.
Lower the boats!
What a hell cat. No controlling these modern girls. They're terrible!
Terrible! Nothing terrible about her. She's great! Marvelous youngster! Got a mind of her own. Knows just what she wants. She's not going to get it though. She won't get very far. Has no money.
What about that diamond wrist watch she had onshe can raise some money on that?
Holy Smoke! I forgot all about that. Send a wireless at once, "Lovington Detective Agency. Daughter escaped again. Watch all roadsall transports and railroad stations in Miami. Have your New York office keep tabs on King Westley. Intercept all messages. Want her back at all costs!"
might have been able to help if it weren't for you. I've been watched so closely, I
Yes. I know. Well, you can help now. I issued a statement yesterday that I've withdrawn my objections. Begging her to come home. I haven't heard from her. Apparently she doesn't trust me.
Why should she? After all
All right. That's why I sent for you. There's a room full of reporters out there. I want you to make a statementthat you've had a talk with methat we've reached an understandingthat if Ellen comes home, I won't interfere with your marriage. Will you do that?
If you really mean it, I will.
Of course I mean it! I don't care whom she's married to as long as I can get her back.
What's this about not eating?
I don't want to eat! And there's one more thing I don't want! Definitely! That's to see you.
Know what my next move is? No more cigarettes.
Why don't you put me in chains?
I might.
All right! Put me in chains! Do anything you want! But I'm not going to eat a thing until you let me off this boat!
Come on, Ellie. Stop being silly. You know I'm going to have my way.
I won't stand for it! I won't stand for your running my life! Why do you insist on it!
You ought to know why. Because
Yes. I know. Because I'm your daughter and you love me. Because you don't want me to make any mistakes. Because
Because marrying that fool King Westley is
You're wasting your time. I'm already married to him.
Not so far as I'm concerned, you're not. Yes?
Smart, aren't you! So subtle.
If Gandhi had a chef like Paul, it would change the whole political situation in India.
You can't tempt me. Do you hear? I won't eat!
Please. I can't fight on an empty stomach. Remember what Napoleon said.
I hope you're not comparing yourself to Napoleon. He was a strategist. Your idea of strategy is to use a lead pipe.
Where are you taking me?
South America.
South America!
We leave Miami in an hour. Soon's we get some supplies aboard.
You'll have a corpse on your hands! That what You'll have. I won't eat a thing while I'm on this boat.
In that event, we won't need so many supplies.
What do you expect to accomplish by all this? I'm already married!
I'll get it annulled.
You'll never do it! You can't do it!
I'll do it if it takes every penny I've got. I'll do it if I have to bribe that musical comedy Justice of the Peace! I'll do itif I have to prove that you were dragged in, staggering drunk. You probably were. Mmmmmm. This filet mignon is divine!
What've you got against King Westley?
Nothing much. I just think he's a fake, that's all.
You only met him once .
That was enough. Do you mind handing me the ketchup?
You talk as if he were a gigoloor something.
Never mindI'll get it myself. Gigolo? Why, you took the word right out of my mouth. Thanks.
He's one of the best fliers in the country. Right now he's planning a trip to Japan.
You're going to finance him, I suppose.
Why not? Look what he's doing for aviation. It takes courage to do what he does. And character! At least he's accomplished something worthwhile. I suppose you'd like to have me marry a business man. Well, I hate business menparticularly if you're a shining example.
Your whole life is devoted to just one thing. To accumulate more money. At least there's romance in what he's doing.
He's no good, Ellie, and you know it. You married him only because I told you not to.
You've been telling me what not to do since I was old enough to remember. I'm sick of it!
A time will come when you'll thank me for this.
I won't thank you! I'll never thank you!
Please don't shout.
I'll shout to my heart's content! I'll scream if I want to.
Ah! Coconut layer cake. Nice and gooey, too. Just the way I like it.
Ellie
Oh, hello, Dad.
I knocked several times.
Sorry. Must have been daydreaming.
Well, everything's set. Creating quite a furor, too. Great stunt King's going to pull.
Stunt?
Landing on the lawn in an autogyro.
Oh, yes. I heard.
Yes. Personally, I think it's silly, too.
What's the matter, Ellie? What's wrong?
Nothing.
You've been acting so strangely since you returned. I'mI'm worried. I haven't bothered to ask you any questionsI Isn't all this what you wanted? You haven't changed your mind about King, have you?
Oh, no.
If you have, it isn't too late. You know how I feel about him. But I want to make you happy. You gave me such a scareIwhen I couldn't find you. You know, the old pump isn't what it used to be.
Sorry, Dad. I wouldn't hurt you for the world. You know that.
I haven't seen you cry since you were a baby. This must be serious. Where'd you meet him?
On the road.
Now, don't tell me you fell in love with a bus driver!
No.
Who is he?
I don't know very much about him. Except that I love him.
Well, if it's as serious as all thatwe'll move heaven and earth to
It'll do no good. He despises me.
Oh, come now
He despises everything I stand for. He thinks I'm spoiled and pampered, and selfish, and thoroughly insincere.
Ridiculous!
He doesn't think so much of you either.
Well!
He blames you for everything that's wrong about me. Thinks you raised me stupidly.
Fine man to fall in love with.
He's marvelous!
Well, what are we going to do about it? Where is he?
I don't know.
I'd like to have a talk with him.
It's no use, Dad. I practically threw myself at him.
Well, under the circumstances, don't you think we ought to call this thing off?
No, I'll go through with it.
But that's silly, child. Seeing how you feel, why
It doesn't matter. I don't want to stir up any more trouble. I've been doing it all my life. I've been such a burden to youmade your life so miserableand mine, too. I'm tired, Dad. Tired of running around in circles. He's right, that's what I've been doing ever since I can remember.
Yes, I guess I have. I don't want to hurt anybody any more. I want to get away from all this front page publicity. It suddenly strikes me as being cheap and loathsome. I can't walk out on King now. It'll make us all look so ridiculous. Besides, what difference does it make? I'll never see Peter again.
Is that his name?
Yes. Peter Warne.
Peter Warne!
Why? Do you know him?
Oh, nono.
You haven't heard from him, have you, Dad?
Why, no . . . Don't be silly.
Oh, please, Dad
Looks like that was his only interest in me. The reward.
I'm sorry you read it.
Are you going to see him?
I suppose so.
Certainly! Pay him off. He's entitled to it. He did an excellent job. Kept me thoroughly entertained. It's worth every penny he gets.
I'll be going. Ellie swallows her drink and starts pouring herself another, as King enters.
Well, if it isn't the groom himself! You're just in time, King.
Can't you get them to go any faster? This dissolves to a deserted ROAD, Peter at the wheel of his car. His high spirits find expression in his efforts to sing.
"I found a million dollar baby"
Yeah, but I don't like the idea of walking in on your jamboree . . . Just between you and methose things give me a stiff pain.
You needn't see anybody. You can come directly to my study. I'd appreciate it very much if
Nono. What the deuce do I want to
Mr. Warne?
Yeah.
Come in. Sit down.
I was surprised to get your note. My daughter hadn't told me anything about you. About your helping her.
That's typical of your daughter. Takes those things for granted. Why does she think I lugged her all the way from Miami for the love of it?
Please understand me. When I say she didn't tell me anything about it, I mean not until a little while ago. She thinks you're entitled to anything you can get.
Oh, she does, huh? Isn't that sweet of her! You don't , I suppose.
don't know. I'd have to see on what you base your claim. I presume you feel you're justified in
If I didn't I wouldn't be here! I've got it all itemized.
I sold some drawers and socks, too; I'm throwing those in.
And this is what you wantthirty nine dollars and sixty cents?
Why not? I'm not charging you for the time I wasted.
Yes, I knowbut
What's the matter? Isn't it cheap enough? A trip like that would cost you a thousand dollars!
Let me get this straight. You want this thirtynine sixty in addition to the ten thousand dollars?
What ten thousand?
The reward.
Who said anything about a reward!
I'm afraid I'm a little confused. You see, I assumed you were coming here for
All I want is thirtynine sixty. If you'll give me a check I'll get out of this place. It gives me the jitters.
You're a peculiar chap.
We'll go into that some other time.
The average man would go after the reward. All you seem to
Listen, did anybody ever make a sucker out of you? This is a matter of principle. Something you probably wouldn't understand. When somebody takes me for a buggy ride I don't like the idea of having to pay for the privilege.
You were taken for a buggy ride?
Yeahwith all the trimmings. Now, how about the check. Do I get it?
Here you are. Do you mind if I ask you something frankly? Do you love my daughter?
A guy that'd fall in love with your daughter should have his head examined.
That's an evasion.
She grabbed herself a perfect running mate. King Westley! The pill of the century! What she needs is a guy that'd take a sock at her every daywhether it's coming to her or not.
If you had half the brains you're supposed to have, you'd have done it yourselflong ago.
Do you love her?
A normal human being couldn't live under the same roof with her, without going nuts. She's my idea of nothing!
I asked you a question. Do you love her?
Yes! But don't hold that against me. I'm a little screwy myself.
OhMary
Yes, sir?
How is she?
Whyuhshe's all right, sir.
What's the matter? Anything wrong?
Oh, no, sir. No different than
Yes. I know. Still in the dumps, huh?
Yes sir. If you'll excuse me, sirshe sent me for a drink. Andrews stands a moment thoughtfully and then starts up the stairs, following which the scene dissolves to the UPSTAIRS CORRIDOR in front of Ellie's door. Andrews enters and knocks several times. Receiving no response, he gingerly opens the door.
We can't do the impossible, Mr. Andrews.
What I'm asking isn't impossible. My daughter is somewhere between here and Miami. I want her found!
I've put extra men on, all along the way.
It's not enough! Are you certain she's not with King Westley?
No. He's been trailed twentyfour hours a day since this thing started. He can't even get a phone call we don't know about.
I'm worried, Lovington. After all, something might have happened to her.
I've been trying to nail George's for years, but he's very careful. I'll just keep having children. I think I'm pregnant, by the way.
Ramona! Don't get Mia Farrow on us.
Three is not Farrow.
Who's Rex's guy?
George was so impressed he hired him when he divorced his second.
Muriel Rumsey.
It's not so bad these days. Kids like joint custody. Two sets of toys.
Maybe next time.
Thorstenson Gieselensen. He just separated from his third. He's in fish. He is fish.
She's keeping his name. And one of his planes. And all seven of his children
And only two are hers.
That doesn't make sense. It's like punishing you for being goal oriented.
Well, you can live here as long as you want. Do you have any plans?
Now, Mrs. Banderas. What is your relationship to Mrs. Rexroth.
We don't have much of a relationship anymore. I haven't seen her since before she married Rex. We had some very nice times prior to that. We were quite close.
And how would you define your relationship to Mrs. Rexroth. You know  you are her...?
Mother?
Hi, Sweetie.
Hard to believe I know. I'm sure you are frequently mistaken for sisters.
No. I haven't. But I've been out of town. Hello, Rex. Hello there.
You were never invited to meet your soninlaw?
No. Uh uh. I don't think so. Hmm? No. Well... no.
Did you know Mrs. Rexroth was married?
Of course. Of course she was married. What else would she be? Single? I don't think so.
Let me tell you something about Patty.
Who's "Patty."
Oh. That's her name. Patricia. Like mine. I was Pat and she was Patty. But she changed it after seeing "Some Like It Hot." To Marylin. After Marylin Monroe.
I see. And what were you going to tell us about Patty slash Marylin?
When she was a tiny girl? And people asked her what she wanted to be when she grew up? She never said the usual things little girls say  like  nurse  ballerina  anchorwoman? She always said  "When I grow up, I want to be divorced."
Divorce was her childhood aspiration?
Well, not just divorce. She used to say "I want to be divorced from some big dumb rich guy..." And I guess her dream is coming true. I'm happy for you Patty
Wait... He wants to give her...?
Nothing.
And she has...?
Video.
What the fuck...?
Wrigley!
Sorry.
Sometimes I have serious doubts about you.
I am very sorry.
Am I mentoring the wrong mentee?
No. You're not.
I could be mentoring Kramer. Kramer clerked for Scalia.
What the hell is wrong with you?
I can't help it. Even with the business we're in, I  it gets me every time. It's so  optimistic.
Is she going through with it?
What do you think?
What are they?
Berry spoons.
Spoons! Honestly Wrigley, I'm surprised at you. What is this? Some Martha Stewart suggestion? Those are the most cockamamie things I've ever 
Miles  why so angry?
I'm sorry I'm late. I was having lunch with Ruth Rabinow's assistant. Guess what? Marylin Rexroth is divorced!
HA!
...and I hear she's richer than Croesus.
Ah, but is she richer than Mrs. Croesus?
She could buy and sell you ten times over.
She deserves every penny. They pay great athletes a fortune. Well, Marylin Rexroth is an athlete at the peak of her power.
Get me Marylin Rexroth Doyle.
What...?
She owes me a meal.
I'd stay away from her, Miles.
I know you would, Wrigley. But would Kramer?
Wrigley?
Miles.
Kenneth this is my associate, Wrigley. Wrigley this is my friend, Dr. Beck.
The plastic surgeon! I read about you in LA Style.
Do you have it?
I tried to reach Ruth, but we couldn't get her.
We wanted Ruth here for your protection as well 
The Judge is here. Over here, Judge Munson.
Yes. It's for your protection, sweetheart. You're the one with the  the...
 the coin?
Extinguish?
Should we counsel fear  or trust? Should we seek to destroy  or to build? Should we meet our clients' problems with cynicism  or with love?
Mr. Rexroth.
Rex, please.
Miles Massey. Please sit, relax, and consider this office your office, your haven, your war room  for the duration of the campaign.
Thank you.
Now Rex.
...Well, my wife has me between a rock and a hard place.
That's her job. You have to respect that.
When I first met Marylin  Well, we were crazy about each other. Not emotionally, of course. We just couldn't keep our hands off each other.
Mm.
But then... But then...
Time marches on. Ardor cools.
No. Not exactly. It didn't exactly cool. Marylin is a knockout. And very sexy  but  there's a lot of it out there.
Ah.
You know what I mean when I say "it."
Gotcha. No need to get anatomically correct with me, Rex.
Seems like there's more of it than ever before 
Well, with the expanding global population  Let me ask you this  your wife. Has she pursued the opportunities which must present themselves to the "knockout, sexy woman" you described?
I don't know. I can assume...
Not in court you can't. Has she retained counsel?
I'm not sure.
And your wife is aware of or has evidence of your activities?
Video.
Mmm... And to cut to the chase, forensically speaking  is there a prenup?
The fault, dear Brutus, is not in our stars, but in ourselves. Well, let me ask you this: what kind of settlement do you seek? What are, for you, the parameters of the possible?
That's the problem. I can't afford to give her anything.
Nothing?
I know that sounds rough but I'm about to close on a deal to develop some minimalls, and I'm mortgaged up to my ass. If this deal goes south, I'm ruined  I'll lose millions.
So, you propose that in spite of demonstrable infidelity on your part, your unoffending wife should be tossed out on her ear?
Well  is that possible?
What's Kirshner?
Please  let me handle this. Okay, Ruth, forget Kirshner  what's your bottom line?
I think that went as well as could be expected.
She always looked out for me.
And she had private investigators assisting her.
She brought my digestive enzymes.
In anticipation of making you sick.
Maybe I should reconsider my...
So, Ruth. How's Sam?
Sam is Sam. He's taking up fly fishing. He's in a yert in Montana.
A yert. Ruth is a living legend, Rex. At a time when most women are in Boca, having early bird specials  she's working so her husband can be in Montana. In a yert.
What?!
Oh, just a routine mammogram. She said to say hello. She's going to Positano with your brother's family.
So, Miles. If you have a proposal, let's hear it.
At this point my client is still prepared to consider reconciliation.
My client has ruled that out.
My client is prepared to entertain an amicable dissolution of the marriage without prejudice.
That's delusional.
My client proposes a thirty day cooling off period.
My client feels sufficiently dispassionate.
My client asks that you not initiate proceedings pending his setting certain affairs in order.
Ha Ha.
Heh heh.
 So much for the icebreakers. What're you after, Ruth?
My client is prepared to settle for fifty percent of the marital assets.
Why only fifty percent, Ruth? Why not ask for a hundred percent?
Oh brother. Here we go.
Why not a hundred and fifty percent?
Yes. Maybe you're right, Miles. Maybe we're being too conservative. Seventy five percent.
Are you familiar with Kirshner?
Kirshner does not apply. Kirshner was in Kentucky.
...arty farty!
Rephrase. Mrs. Rexroth, have you ever been in love?
He divorced his wife  he married Marylin  he divorced Marylin  and he  remarried his WIFE? What kind of sick 
Marylin was friends with Howard and Amanda Doyle. They don't like the way you operate. They helped her.
He never ate the prenup, did he!
I have no idea what Howard Doyle eats. I'm not a damn dietician.
Did Marylin end up with money?
She's YOUR wife. Why don't you ask her? Anyway, I assume she signed the highly over rated Massey prenup.
I don't have a prenup
...The fault, dear Brutus, is not in our stars...
Don't give me that crap. That's MY crap.
And it's good!
I'll have you suspended. I'll have you disbarred.
Don't threaten me, Miles. I did nothing illegal.
...why did she do it, Ruth? Why?
That's attorney client privilege. Sorry, Miles. But as a great and clever man once said, What's good for the goose 
Where does that leave us?
We've outlined a settlement...
Herb wants to see me?
When you have a moment.
Mr. Massey 
Please! No calls! I'm feeling very fragile.
I'm sorry, Mr. Massey, but I felt certain you'd want to know  Marylin Rexroth wants to see you.
Marylin Rexroth? When does she 
She's here now.
 is not a challenge. I need something I can sink my teeth into, professionally speaking.
He would invite these girls home from the staple factory to our condominium in Palm Springs. He had a device he called the Intruder.
Wait. I know you.
Yes?
You're Miles Massey! You probably don't recognize me. The drugs made me put on weight and grow facial hair.
Excuse me?
You ruined my life you sonofabitch. Gimme those.
Yes, I know Howard Doyle.
He tricked you. With a phony wife and a fake prenup. Howard Doyle. He got you. You married Marylin, didn't you? You thought she had money. HA HA HA. Howard Doyle made you think that because of what you did to me. And to Marylin Rexroth. Yeah. I heard all about it. My brother Howard Doyle got you. Neener neener neener.
You want to come out to the beach house tomorrow?
I didn't know Barry had a beach house.
Neither did I until my lawyer found it  quite a paper trail  he had it in the dog's name.
She's a legend. Didn't she do Kravis or a Pearlman? She definitely did a Factor.
She did a Harriman.
Wow.
In the words of my Private Investigator, we're going to nail his ass.
Miles Massey.
Of Massey Myerson?
Do you know him?
By reputation. He got Ann Rumsey that cute little island of George's.
Who's she?
Now? She's a night manager at McDonalds.
Maybe.
We do have a man for you.
Please. I'm not seeing anyone until this is over. One husband at a time.
I wish I had your discipline.
I don't know what his game is. He dismissed every one of Ruth's proposals. And Sarah, we weren't unreasonable.
Well what does he want?
I don't know. Ruth kept her cool, but I could tell she was surprised.
He has a reputation for being tough.
Lilly's up.
Oh, God!
Every week 
I'm dying.
Anyway, even Rex seemed perplexed by his intransigence. If I didn't know better, I'd swear Massey had some personal investment in my ruination.
So where are you now?
Well, if he continues to maintain this position  we're in court.
Shit.
Get this! He called and invited me to dinner.
That stinks. They left you with absolutely nothing. It makes you wonder about the entire legal system. Like Rodney King.
They bought her speech. If I was only in it for Rex's money, he shouldn't have to give me any.
Nothing specific, but I'll have my own place soon.
So, Marylin. Is that what you said when you were a little girl?
Probably. Every woman in my life was divorced at least twice. What was I supposed to say. Anthropologist?
You're not...
No. I'll see some blood before this is over, but it won't be mine.
Sarah Sorkin. Ramona Barcelona  this is Miles Massey.
Hello Miles.
But Marylin, without this, you're completely exposed.
I want to be exposed.
Is this Ming?
It's not Ming. It's Tong.
I can't do this anymore. Let's get some lunch.
What about rugs? I thought we were stopping at Mansour?
Right.
What?
He's not what I expected. He's very  he's so  happy.
But you're going through with it?
Yes, yes, it's just  you know I've never been the first wife. Rex was married before me.
So what?
Miles is different. He's still so idealistic.
Well, that's about to change big time.
He has no cynicism or anger. For once I'm not the repository of rage at some other woman.
Soon, you'll have your own rage!
I guess.
I'm sorry. Where were we?
We were about to request the primary residence, and thirty percent of the remaining assets.
I was devastated. Of course.
Thank you, Mrs. Rexroth.
Who's that?
Jesus.
Is this a lover?
Please!
Forgery and Fraud?
You used his credit card.
He told me to  he said he wanted me to 
Quite a little shopping spree. How do you spend six figures in less than six hours? Oh, never mind I've seen it before. I've seen everything.
Do you think he set me up? Do you think that was his intention?
Like I know his intention? Or yours for that matter? I should join Sam. I'm too old for this bullshit.
He never even asked. He just assumed 
He was right, wasn't he?
So. Now what?
Now? Well, Marylin, now you cut a deal or find out how Jean Harris made it work for her.
Rex. Get away from the door.
Look, Marylin, can't we have a civilized discussion about this?
We are. And it's winding down.
But Marylin, you know a divorce would ruin me right now. Everything I have  everything we have  is tied up in my business. The business is my entire life.
Are you forgetting about the Atcheson, Topeka and the Santa Fe?
Marylin?
Rex. Go away. I don't want to have to sic the dogs on you.
Dogs?
Hello, Rex.
Marylin.
Are you alright? You lost weight.
My whole metabolism is  off.
Do you need a Tagamet?
You have some?
Have you been taking your digestive enzymes?
Sometimes I forget.
 Ruth Rabinow, this is Rex Rexroth. And you must be Mrs. Rexroth.
And you must be Mr. Massey.
How nice.
Positano is beautiful. Remember when we were there, Rex? We stayed in the Santo Pietro? That hotel on the cliff?
These are yours.
Not according to Mrs. Rabinow.
I assume this is on Rex?
Isn't everything?
Your husband told me you were beautiful, but I was unprepared.
"Dismiss your vows, your feigned tears, your flattery, for where a heart is hard, they make no battery."
Do you have a hard heart, Marylin.
Did you see the tape?
Not yet.
See the tape. Then we can discuss my heart.
Tell me Mr. Massey. What was your performance about this afternoon?
What does your lawyer think?
Ruth says you've been too successful, that you're bored, complacent, and you're on your way down.
But you don't agree?
How do you know?
Why would you be here?
I told you. I was hungry.
I'll have the tournedos of beef. And the lady will have the same? I assume you're a carnivore.
I know you do.
"Who ever lov'd that lov'd not at first sight?"
You didn't ask me here to pick me up. You could get in trouble for that.
Not really. You're not my client. Freedom of association. Big issue with the First Amendment fans. Want to go to Hawaii for the weekend?
Have you ever been married, Miles?
No.
You don't believe in it.
As a matter of fact, I'm a huge fan.
You just haven't met the right person.
No. I haven't. Have you?
All right, Miles. Let me tell you everything you THINK you know. I was married to Rex for a long time. I was an excellent wife, a partner, a lover, a hostess and a friend. There was only one thing I did wrong during the five years we were together. I got five years older. Think he should be able to ditch me for that?
He wants a reconciliation.
See the tape. Then we can discuss reconciliation. Rex screwed up and I nailed his ass. Now I'm going to have it mounted and have my girlfriends over to throw darts at it. Then I'm getting on with my life. That's all I'm after.
Gotcha.
What is it you're after, Miles?
Oh, I'm a lot like you  just looking for an ass to mount.
Well, don't look at mine!
Yes. I loved my husband, Rex.
And you've always loved him?
And you hoped to spend the rest of your life with him?
Yes. Why is that so difficult for you to understand?
He'll regret this.
Have you ever met Mr. Rexroth?
Oh, for the love of...
That is true, isn't it Miles? Your prenup is the best there is?
That is correct. Not to blow my own horn, but they devote an entire semester to it at Harvard Law.
 we are both sure that's what we want?
Absolutely.
Getting married.
To him? He's a sick freak.
He's passionate.
Passionate! He's a pervert. He should have to register when he moves.
All girls enjoy a little rough trade from time to time.
Marylin! Listen to me.
No. You listen to me. You busted me, Miles. You left me with nothing! What did you expect me to do? Get a degree in counseling? Write a book about table linen? Because that's what wives do when they get dumped, and frankly, I'm not quite ready for that.
But why him?
We told you. We realized we've always been in love.
The Massey prenup has never been pene  successfully challenged.
So I hear. Is that all?
No, that's not all.
I'd like to offer my congratulations. That was a beautiful gesture of Howard's.
Howard is a beautiful person.
Yes. He's a diamond in the rough. And I have a feeling that someday soon you'll be taking that diamond and leaving the rough.
Miles. Miles. Miles.
I am thrilled for you, but tell me this... How'd you get Howard to do it? I've addressed enough juries to appreciate the power of suggestion, but it seemed like he thought it was his own idea.
It was his idea. It was a gesture of love and trust. Be happy for me, Miles.
Well, when this goes south  promise you'll have dinner with me?
Have you tried the duck?
I figure a couple of months. That's how long it should take for the ink on the settlement to dry.
It has bones. Be sure to swallow one.
Although knowing you as I do  there will be no settlement. This time it will be complete and total annihilation.
To victory.
I don't feel victorious Miles. I feel betrayed, abandoned and humiliated. I have pictures of him with another woman...
More pictures? My God, Marylin. You can open an erotic art gallery.
Did you invite me here to score some cheap laughs.
No. Just to comfort you, and appreciate you 
You really think I engineered the whole thing. You think the marriage and the divorce was part of some scheme. You came here to celebrate because you think I'm without morality or soul. You  sound like my mother.
Hello?
Miles?
Yes? Marylin?
You're right about me. I am worthless. I am nothing. I don't deserve to live.
Marylin? When did I say...?
I don't blame them for betraying me. I don't blame Rex, or Howard or my father. You see, Miles, I'm going to tell you something about me. Something you may or may not know. I suck!
Screw you, asswipe!
Marylin? Forgive me but are you  drunk?
A little. You get out of the car. That's right, Fuctard. I'm talkin' to you!
You shouldn't be driving. Where are you?
I'm on Sunset. Near the Beverly Hills hotel. Wanna meet me for a drink in the Polo...?
I live right near there. The 800 Block of Maple. Come here. Marylin  come here right now before  just come here.
Okay. Should I stop at Starbucks and pick up a blended for 
No. Don't stop.
Okay Miles.
You have a very nice home, Miles. Very inviting.
Thank you.
You have wonderful art. I love that lithograph. Hockney?
Yes. I just got that, actually. It was a gift.
From a  girlfriend.
No. No. I don't have a... no. It was from a client.
No kidding. I'll bet you have some very grateful clients. What'd Rex buy you?
Rex sent me two humidors full of pre Castro Cubans.
Is that you?
Me. Yes.
Oh. And that is  mom?
Yeah. Mom. Mom and brother.
You look like you were a very sensitive child. You have expressive eyes.
Hmmm...
And your mother was very beautiful. She must be proud of you.
She never particularly cared for me.
She didn't love you?
No. She loved me. She would never not love her son. She just didn't... I wasn't her "type." She said I was a very, colicky baby. You know? Difficult. Not a good sleeper? Didn't eat well? We got off to a bad start, and she never seemed to recoup 
She held that against you?
Apparently she was very disappointed.
Boy. Boy, oh boy.
And here I thought my mother was...
Your mother was.
Oh right. You met Patricia.
We're damaged goods.
No, we're not!
We are, Miles. You know I'm right. There's something "off" about you and me Miles. And maybe it isn't because of these women  maybe they were just extremely insightful and recognized our "deficiencies" very early on. Maybe...
That is bullshit! Mine is a bitch and yours is a psycho. I can't believe you're saying this, Marylin! There's nothing wrong with us. We're attractive and charismatic and successful and... I like us.
I'm sorry Miles. You shouldn't listen to me. I'm sure you have a very fulfilling life. I'd better go. I'm depressing.
No.
Thank you for the coffee. It's very robust.
Friends?
Don't go. Stay with me for a while.
I have to say  I'm speechless. No. I'm never speechless.
I'm a little embarrassed. I'm not used to losing control with such  volume.
And I'm not used to  Marylin  there's something I want to ask you.
What is it Miles?
I want... I want to...
I want to be your  your wife.
Huh?
No... That wasn't right. I want YOU to be MY wife.
Did you just propose to me?
Yes. I am. What else could those words mean? I believe we belong together and we can make one another happy. And we should be happy because happiness is better than the alternative which is  just jump in any old time, Marylin. You have more experience at this than I do.
Yes.
Yes? Yes, you do have more experience?
Yes, Miles. I accept.
You do?
Do you want me to sleep on it?
No.
Do you want to sleep on it?
No ma'am. I have been asleep all my life up to this moment. Marylin, will you marry me?
Yes. Again.
I don't have a ring!
I know.
I have a watch.
Wasn't she the Judge at my divorce hearing?
Yes. Short notice you know, but I think there's nice closure to it. Hello Judge Muson. A pleasure as always.
No. Judge  just a sec. But Marylin, if we sign it, I can't hope to benefit from the marriage.
Oh Miles!
What I mean is, your wealth is completely protected.
But?
I want this to be a marriage based on love, trust and community property. That's all I've ever wanted.
I'm sorry. I'm squishing you. I'll move to the...
No. Stay. I want you close to me. This couch is wrong. It's not a "married couch."
Honey, I could sit...
In fact, this is not a married house  it's a bachelor pad.
Hardly. You have six bedrooms
I know. But I've converted most of them into ridiculous "Guy" rooms  a billiard room, a card room, a gym  Honey, want you to go out, as soon as you feel up to it  and buy married things. Woman things. Personalize it. Marylinize it. Make this your house.
Here's my card. Spend as much as you want. We get mileage.
Well, I suppose I could "girly" it up for you with a little Fortuny, and some passementerie 
Good. Are those foods?
Fabric and fringe.
Exactly. And then  maybe  not right away  There's a room right off the bedroom  It would be perfect for a nursery. It's a walk in humidor right now  but if I took out the refrigeration unit 
Miles.
I think a nursery should be right off the master suite. My parents put mine in the guest house. Apparently they did have a Fisher Price intercom, but my mother turned it off when I was seven months old because I was so 
Hi.
Hello Marylin.
I have a surprise for you.
I bet.
You don't like me?
I love you. I want to have your baby.
What's wrong Miles? Did I spend too much?
Miles. I have a very good relationship with all the salesmen. I can return everything.
Can you Marylin? Can you return the trust? Can you return the hopes? The dreams? Can you just... SEND IT ALL BACK FOR STORE CREDIT?
Miles? You're scaring me.
I'm sorry, Darling. I love it. It's chic and timeless and elegant and eclectic and. It's you, Marylin. It is YOU.
Well. Well. Well. Look who made bail!
May I come in?
I don't know. Maybe I should grab my mace. I'm a civil attorney. I have little experience with "the criminal mind."
I'd just like to pick up a few of my things
I don't believe you have "things."
On the contrary. We're married and we have no prenup, so a case could be made that everything in here is mine.
Comfy!
What do you want?
I want to nail you ass.
Are you threatening me, because I'm sure that's a violation of the terms of your bail.
I'm reporting you to the IRS.
The IRS? They owe me. I'm expecting a refund.
I'm clean with the IRS. I've reported every dollar I've ever made. Try again, girlfriend.
I'm not talking about dollars, studmuffin. I'm talking about 
STUFF. Got a light?
What kind of "stuff?"
Arty Farty stuff. Lithographs and pre Castro Cubans. Watches and mileage on private jets. Stuff, Miles. Stuff you get from grateful clients.
Those are gifts.
Salary. Unreported income. By the way, what time IS it on Bellagio Road?
You can't prove anything.
I don't have to. That's what the IRS guys do. And they do it with great zeal. See, they work at these tortuous civil service jobs, and when five hundred dollar an hour boys like you take their trade out in luxury goodies, these saps feel.. well, they feel like saps. And they feel bitter and they feel vengeful and they feel WRATH. What is this? A Romeo and Julieta?
You're out of your league, Marylin. Rexroth was a primate. I'm a professional.
I know. So am I, right? And so is Agent Wilson of the Internal Revenue Service. He's a dedicated, underpaid graduate of Southwestern University  very tenacious, and never more so than when he's dealing with an unscrupulous colleague. I think it's only fair to warn you: I'm going to file an action, Miles. And after a decent interval I plan to have Ruth seek an injunction that will forbid your approach within 500 feet of my house.
Meaning my house.
I believe the residence will be part of the settlement.
Did our marriage ever mean anything to you?
Drop the bogus forgery charge and I'll forget about your generous friends slash clients.
That's blackmail.
That's marriage.
Hello?
Marylin?
Miles? Miles! Where have you been? I've been trying to get in touch.
You have to leave the house immediately!
I will, Miles. I will leave. But Miles 
No buts. Now. Out.
Just listen to me. I'm sorry, Miles. It's true that my initial intention was to...
Please! Leave the house.
I fell in love Miles.
So did I. Now pack up a few basics and 
You do? You do love me?
It's a no go, Joe.
Marylin!
It's okay Joe.
Wait! He works for YOU?
Now. But first, he worked for you.
You were going to have this thug...?
Wait just a second there. You sent him here. You unearthed this pestilence.
Nonono. Marylin  I'm your husband. I'd be entitled to Rex's money. No matter what happened to you.
That's true.
Marylin. Run. I'll distract him.
I'm not leaving you. I took self defense
Hello Marylin.
Hello Miles.
Hard to believe this is the way it will end up for us.
It's not something I wanted either.
But then  I guess  something inside me died when I realized that you'd hired a goon to kill me.
Yes. I know. It's exactly how I felt when I realized you'd hired the goon to kill...
You wounded me first, Marylin.
Your forgetting Rex Rexroth?
You're forgetting Howard Doyle?
Forgery? Fraud?
Income tax evasion?
Murder?
Murder!
I don't see how we can ever find our way back from...
PreCastro.
Fine. They were created during a dictatorship. What if something happened to you? What would I tell little Gus when he asked "what was my daddy like?"
Sweet.
I thought so.
So who'd you hire?
Ruth Rabino.
You should have tried to get pregnant Marylin  solidify your position.
No.
You like kids.
I can't have a baby with a man I don't love... And I can't submit a child to divorce.
It was like that scene in The Godfather. Frankie Pentangeli is called to testify against the Family. And he's in court, and he looks into the spectators gallery, and sees his Brother. They brought the brother from Sicily. And Frankie can't say a word. He can't testify. That's what it was like seeing Pat in there. I couldn't even have Ruth cross examine her.
Why do you think she did it?
Maybe she wanted a free trip to LA. Maybe they offered her money. Massey is very seductive. Who knows.
Maybe they put a horse head in her bed?
I begged you to have a baby!
In the Godfather, after the courtroom scene, Frankie Pentangeli opens his veins in the bathtub.
You're vulnerable.
It's about time.
You said 'yes' didn't you?
I said yes.
Is Tong older than Ming?
I think Ming is older than Tong. What is this?
Well. He said to "make the house mine."
Oh boy. If he only knew.
Yeah. I guess. You know 
It sounded like a bell.
I'll be right back.
Mrs. Guttman, you have testified that you were your husband's sexual slave for thirtysix years, ever since you were married 
Except for two years when he was in the Navy, in Korea.
Prior to your marriage, what was your profession?
I was a hostess. For TransWorld Airlines.
What is your husband's profession?
He manufactures staples and industrial bradtacks. He's very successful.
She got absolutely nothing. Zero. Zip.
So. I won't be seeing her? Your clients usually visit me after the settlement.
Not this one. Not unless her HMO covers plastic surgery, which, incidentally, she does not need.
Everyone needs plastic surgery. You need it.
I don't need it.
You want Botox?
What the hell is Botox?
It's a form of botulism. I just inject it into your forehead, and it paralyzes your eyebrows so you can't raise them...
Why in God's name would I want...?
No frown lines. New watch?
It's a LeCoultre Revers. You can flip the face, and set it for two time zones.
Why would you need two time zones? You never leave Beverly Hills.
It was a gift from a client.
Set one side for Bel Air.
Botox. Christ. We had aspirations when we were in college.
We did not.
You were going to be a Cardiac Surgeon. I was going to clerk for the Supreme Court.
I was going to play golf. You were going to have Asian girlfriends.
Denial is not a river in Egypt.
You're in check.
I should be in therapy.
Do you think I'm going to end up like Herb Myerson, with a colostomy bag instead of a family?
Got any symptoms?
Yes. The inability to experience pleasure.
Oh. That. Don't waste time with your queen.
What?
The Center Counter Defense. The thing is not to move your queen too early.
She can't really love that idiot, can she?
What?
Marylin Rexroth. She came into my office and signed a prenup with Howard Doyle.
Doyle Oil? A Massey Prenup? She loves him.
He's the wrong man.
Miles! Don't waste time with someone else's queen, either.
I'm happy for you, pal.
Thanks, buddy.
Is she Asian?
Asian? No.
Well... I'm still...
I have it.
You have the prenup?
No. I have the ring. Was I supposed to have a prenup?
No. You have the ring. Wrigley has the prenup.
Oh. I thought maybe  Gee!
They won't get a conviction. The husband called it in as a suicide. The forensic guys weren't thinking murder. I'm sure some of the evidence was compromised.
It's your move, Miles.
I already made my move, Kenneth.
My God.
What?
That was Marvin Untermeyer.
Yes?
He was Rex Rexroth's personal attorney.
What do you mean, was.
Rex just had a massive coronary. In the middle of a business meeting. He's dead.
I'm sorry to hear that. But you weren't close, were you?
Marvin says that Rex's will is four years old. He never redrafted it.
Yes.
She's rich. We're still married. We have no prenup.
So, that's good, right?
Who was that?
That was  oh, shit. What if he's on his way over there?
Huh?
Marylin! What have I done?
I don't know, but don't call me Marylin.
Objection, your honor!
Grounds?
Uh... poetry recitation.
Who's next, Mrs. Rabinow.
We rest, Your Honor.
Mr. Massey?
Objection, Your Honor. This isn't about Mrs. Rexroth's filial obligations.
Sustained.
Whoever sent you, I'll pay double.
Mr. Dumbarton.
Is this Mr. Dumbarton?
No...
That's his lawyer.
Triple!
Who's the pigeon?
You're calling me a pestilence? That's a hoot!
I'm sorry. That was unkind and  but, we changed our minds. Did you really mean what you said on the phone. It wasn't because you found out about Rex?
Lemme tell you something. You are the pestilence. I'm the exterminator.
Oh Joe, be happy for us. I'll pay you the twenty thousand.
Well, actually, all whores worship the dollar, if you want to get technical.
Shut up. I was a lawyer. Just like you. And my clients? Whores just like you.
I am here representing Mr. Dumbarton, on a... matter of some delicacy.
Who's the pigeon?
Excuse me?
Who do you want me to kill?
Well  I, uh, that is to say Mr. Dumbarton  would like you to uh, neutralize a, uh, business associate by the name of Marylin Rexroth Doyle Massey uh Dumbart  uh, Massey.
Is that... one person?
Here's her picture...
You're in a rush.
Mr. Dumbarton is, yes.
Oh. Right. Won't you have a seat?
After you, Doll.
And how is Mrs. Reiser?
Few suicide attempts, little inpatient stint. Naturally, she misses her kids. Six weekends a year and alternate Yom Kippurs seemed harsh to us but  hey  all's fair. Anyhoo, she lives with a "nurse," takes her meds and goes to occupational therapy at a local sheltered workshop.
So she's uh, flourishing?
She makes felt wallets. Got one right here.
Muh  Well, uh  Huh?
Yep. My divorce just came through. Shoulda called you. Coulda cut a better deal! My wife still has health insurance and gets to see the children. But, I don't know. Guess I'm just a softie. After all Amanda and me were together for  what  you'd know better than me, Marylin. She was your best friend.
I... uh guess congratulations are in order.
Well  Marylin and Rex broke up and...
No!
I had no idea until after, but 
What a touching story.
You know, Miles, after my wife  wife's mastectomy  things were never the same. This might sound cold, well, maybe not to you, Massey, but... I like my women with two boobs.
Harvard? Whoa, Daddy!
I just want to make sure that you both 
 understand what you're asking for here. The Massey prenup provides that in the event of a dissolution of the marriage for any reason, both parties shall leave it with whatever they brought in, and earned during. No one can profit from the marriage. The prenup protects the wealthier party.
Well  at the moment, that'd be me.
And without it, that party is exposed  a sitting duck. No wriggle room.
A Wriggle Room! Maybe we should put that in the Malibu house. Screw the screening room!
 and we are sure...
Excuse me, Mr. Doyle, if I could just borrow your charming fiancee for a moment.
What part?
I'd just like to have a word with her.
Why not? I'm going to have her for a lifetime.
Miles, how nice of you to see us  may I introduce Howard D. Doyle of Doyle Oil.
I told you we know each other, baby. Mr. Massey represented my exbrother in law. Martin Reiser?
Yeah. I know. Leather would be more practical, but whatcha gonna do?
Miles, I know you're busy and that you charge by the hour so I'll come to the point. Howard and I are planning to marry.
Sixteen years? Howard Jr. is fourteen and Mandy must be what  twelve?
Here. Got pictures.
Honey, I don't think this is really relevant to...
...and one day, this sweet girl calls me, asks me to lunch. Just a shoulder to cry on deal. One thing leads to another and before I know it 
 we realized we'd always been very attracted to one another.
Baby. You are so HOT!
Howard!
As you are well aware, my previous marriage ended with an unjustified strain on my reputation My motives were questioned. I was slandered in court.
You did good, Massey!
Therefore in an effort to remove any trace of suspicion from my sweet Howard  I wish to execute a pre nuptial agreement.
And  there's no talking her out of it. Believe me, I've tried.
They say the Massey prenup has never been penetrated.
She said "penetrate." Heh heh heh.
Course I can't do much "wriggling" if you tie me up like that again. Massey  this is one bad bad little girl.
We'd better go before we get thrown out.
Yes. Your husband did show remarkable foresight in taking those pictures. And, yes, absent a swimming pool, the presence of the pool man would appear to be suspicious. But Bonnie, who is the real victim here? Let me suggest the following. Your husband, who on a prior occasion slapped you  beat you 
Well, I wouldn't say 
Your husband, who has beaten you  repeatedly 
He 
Please  was at the time brandishing your firearm, trying in his rage to shoot an acquaintance  friend of long standing 
They hate each other 
So he says now! But if not for your cool headed intervention, his tantrum might have ended this schmoe's life and ruined his own... As for the sexual indiscretion which he imagined had taken place, wasn't it in fact he who had been sleeping with the pool man?
Jeff's a premiere golfer... What are you, a two handicap?
Seven...
And, he gets out there and he has five strokes on us. He has more concentration than anybody I've ever met. It's spooky how he can concentrate.
I'd rather play than talk about it. What did you want to see me about? I don't like being back here.
Jeffrey says exactly what's on his mind. Most people consider what they're saying... social skills... Jeffrey just charges right ahead. Now, I know you understood the nature of the confidentiality portion of your severance agreement with Brown & Williamson, Jeff...
Chapter and verse.
Yeah, I know you do... You know, I came up through sales. One of the reasons I was a great salesman, was I never made a promise I couldn't keep. I knew that if I ever broke my promise I'd suffer the consequence...
Is that a threat?
...we worked together for, what was it, three years...? Now, the work we did here is confidential, not for public scrutiny... any more than are one's family matters...
You threatening my family, now, too?
Now, don't be paranoid, Jeff. About the direction of research here, we may have had our differences of opinion...
"Research..." You declare, as a badge of honor, you don't even know what makes water boil...
That's why we hire scientists...
Okay. I don't believe you can maintain corporate integrity without confidentiality agreements. I was paid well for my work. The health and welfare benefits are good. The severance package is fair. I have no intention of violating my confidentiality agreement and disclosing that which I said I wouldn't.
I appreciate all that, Jeff. But, upon reflection... we've decided to expand our zone of comfort with you.
Hello.
Mr. Scruggs, Jeff Wigand. Lowell Bergman said I should give you a call...
My cocounsel, Ron Motley, and I have filed a lawsuit against the tobacco industry on behalf of the State of Mississippi to get the state reimbursed Medicaid costs for treating people with smokingrelated illness. If you'd be interested in talking to us, we'd certainly like to talk to you...
When should we do this?
Jail?
Possibly, yes. That is one of the possible consequences of your testifying here today. That's right...
How does one... "go... to... jail?" What does my family do? Go on welfare? If my wife has to work? Who's going to look after the kids? Put food on the table? My children need me. If I'm not teaching... there's no medical... no medical... even on co pay, that's like... Tuition...
Object to the form of the question!
It acts as a drug on the body?
Object to the form!
It acts as a...
Object!
There an echo in here? Your objection's been recorded. She typed it into her little machine over there. It's on the record. So now I'll proceed with my deposition of my witness. Does it act as a drug?
Dr. Wigand. I am instructing you... ...not to answer that question in accordance to the terms of the contractual obligations undertaken by you not to disclose any information about your work at the Brown & Williamson Tobacco Company. And in accordance with the force and effect of the temporary restraining order that has been entered against you to by the court in the State of Kentucky! That means you don't talk! Mr. Motley, we have rights, here...
Oh, you got rights and lefts! Ups and downs and middles! So what?! You don't get to instruct anything around here! This is not North Carolina, not South Carolina nor Kentucky. This is the sovereign State of Mississippi's proceeding. Wipe that smirk off your face! Dr. Wigand's deposition will be part of this record. And I'm going to take my witness' testimony! Whether the hell you like it or not! Answer the question, Dr...
You heard Mr. Sandefur say before Congress that he believed nicotine was not addictive...?
...I believe Mr. Sandefur perjured himself because I watched those testimonies very carefully.
All of us did. There was this whole line of people... whole line of CEOs up there all swearing.
Part of the reason I'm here is I felt that their representation clearly misstated, at least within Brown & Williamson's representation, clearly misstated... what is common language within the company... we are in the nicotine delivery business.
And that's what cigarettes are for...?
A delivery device for nicotine.
A delivery device for nicotine. Put it in your mouth, light it up, and you're gonna get your fix...
You're gonna get your fix...
You're saying that Brown & Williamson manipulates and adjusts the nicotine fix, not by artificially adding nicotine, but by enhancing the effect of nicotine through the use of chemical elements such as ammonia...
The process is known as "impact boosting..." While not spiking nicotine, they clearly manipulate it. There's extensive use of this technology, know as "ammonia chemistry." It allows for the nicotine to be more rapidly absorbed in the lung and therefore affect the brain and central nervous system.
The straw that broke the camel's back for me and really put me in trouble with Sandefur was a compound called "coumarin." When I came on board at B&W, they had tried to transition from coumarin to a similar flavor that would give the same taste, and had been unsuccessful. I wanted it out immediately. I was told that it would affect sales, so I should mind my own business. I constructed a memo to Mr. Sandefur indicating I could not in conscience continue with coumarin in a product that we now knew, we had documentation, was similar to coumadin, a lungspecific carcinogen...
And you sent the document forward to Sandefur?
I sent the document forward to Sandefur. I was told that we would continue to work on a substitute, we weren't going to remove it as it would impact sales, and that that was his decision.
In other words, you were charging Sandefur and Brown & Williamson with ignoring health considerations consciously...
Most certainly.
And on March 24, Thomas Sandefur, CEO of Brown & Williamson had you fired. And the reason he gave you?
Poor communication skills.
And, do you wish you hadn't come forward? You wish you hadn't blown the whistle?
Yeah, there are times I wish I hadn't done it. There are times I feel compelled to do it. If you asked me would I do it again? Do I think it's worth it? Yeah, I think it's worth it.
"I would bet on it."
"The former executive has reason to bet on being sued, for major cigarette manufacturers..."
"You wish you hadn't blown the whistle?"
"There are times... I wish I hadn't done it. But there are times that I feel compelled to do it..." "I've  if you asked me if I would do it again or if it's  do I think it's worth it. Yeah. I think it's worth it."
Jeff Wigand, Michael Moore.
Good to meet you, Dr. Wigand.
Mike's our Attorney General down here. I was just explaining to Jeff, they got a Kentucky court to issue a gag order to stop his deposition today.
Right.
Now, they tried to get the Mississippi Court to honor it, but the judge threw it out... However, for you, there is a more perilous effect to the Kentucky gag order...
Dr. Wigand, you do understand what could happen, don't you?
Just give me an example...
For example. James Burke, the CEO of Johnson & Johnson... when he found out that some lunatic had put poison in Tylenol bottles, he didn't argue with the FDA... He didn't even wait for the FDA to tell him. He just pulled Tylenol off every shelf of every store right across America. Instantly. And then he developed the safety cap... Because, look, as a CEO, sure, he's gotta be a great businessman, right? But he's also a man of science. He's not going to allow his company... to put on the shelf... a product that might hurt people. Not like the Seven Dwarfs...
We have a couple. One's hers, one's mine. Everybody uses a different name. Modern marriage. How's Liane?
She's okay.
Hold on a minute, Lowell... ...somebody... may be following me. I don't know. They came on the property...
What do you mean followed you? Did you call the police?
I don't want to be paranoid... I mean, maybe it's a game. Some kind of mind game.
Well, what do you really think, though?
I don't know what the fuck I really think! Are they doing it? Is some crank doing it? Are they doing it to make me feel paranoid? Are they doing it for real and don't give a shit what I think? I don't know! I don't fucking know.
Well, no, look... I mean, there was a footprint. Forget it. It's probably not important at all. You know, I got a job now. I'm teaching high school. Japanese and Chemistry. So, what were you calling about?
You called me.
What are you talking about?
Someone put a bullet in my mailbox.
I heard you. But I got to arrange a legal defense first. I got to get you to testify in court, get it on public record.
Then hold it off the air until you got that. But I want to go to New York. And I want to go on the record. Right now!
Jeffrey, how are you? How's the family, okay?
There is  there is no family.
What do you mean there is no family?
Liane has filed for divorce...
And, so, I moved out... I see the girls a couple of days a week...
Where you staying now?
Our favorite hotel, honey... I checked into Room 930. Odd choice? Huh?
I think I need to call the police. He won't respond...
No, no. Don't call the police! Just tell him I'm on the phone with you... My name is Lowell Bergman... Just tell him that.
Did he hear you?
You're breaking up. I can't hear you.
What about now?
What?
Hello, can you hear me now?
What's happening?!
He doesn't seem to be listening...
Alright, now listen to me. I want you  I want you to tell him, in these words: get on the fucking phone...!
I can't say that!
No, you can. Tell him to get on the fucking phone!
Who's that?
That's room service. They usually knock first. Come on in... Over here, please.
How do you like your coffee? Black?
Black, black...
Look, I really don't have that much time...
Is there anything you want to know about me, Mr. Wigand...?
Like what? Your sign?
I know what I have to know.
Just so I know you know, when I talk to people in confidence, it stays that way.
How did a radical journalist from Ramparts Magazine end up at CBS?
...but that's as far as I go...
Far as you go where?
This issue is a drop in the bucket. I can talk to you about what's in here. But I can't talk to you about anything else.
Doesn't CBS have confidentiality agreements, Mr. Bergman?
Between journalists and management, yes, I believe they do... but I don't take that seriously. Where do you work?
Did work.
Did work.
How much would I get paid?
That, you have to discuss with CBS Business Affairs. But, for something like this, I would say anywhere between 10, 12 thousand.
Should I just take the documents now?
If you want to do it.
...protect your sources...! You screwed me! You sold me out!
What are you talking about? Where are you?
Fuck you, too!
Mrs. Wigand, how do you do?
Jump in, quick, c'mon...
I'm Lowell Bergman. We spoke on the phone, remember?
C'mere. I want to talk to you.
Good. I want to talk to you.
What do...
I did not burn you. I did not give you up to anyone!
This is my house... In front of my wife, my kids?! What business do we have?
To straighten something out with you. Right here. Right now.
So, you didn't mention my name? You haven't talked to anybody about me?
Why am I gonna mention your name?
How did Brown & Williamson know I spoke to you...?
How the hell do I know about Brown & Williamson?
It happened after I talked to you. I do not like coincidences!
And I don't like paranoid accusations! I'm a journalist. Think. Use your head. How do I operate as a journalist by screwing the people who could provide me with information before they provided me with it?
You came all the way down here to tell me that?
No. I did not. Big Tobacco is a big story. And you got something important to say. I can tell. But, yes. I did. I came all the way down here to tell you: story, no story, fuck your story, I don't burn people.
And, I'm unemployed. So I have to protect my medical coverage. ...so I left them a message this morning. Their expanded confidentiality agreement? I will sign it.
They're afraid of you, aren't they?
They should be.
Talk to me outside the zone of your agreement?
Like what?
Like where'd you work before Brown & Williamson?
Johnson & Johnson. Union Carbide in Japan. I was general manager and director of new products. I speak Japanese. I was a director of corporate development at Pfizer. All healthrelated. What else? Outside the "zone"...?
I don't know... you think the Knicks are gonna make it through the semi finals?
Seven dwarfs?
The seven CEOs of Big Tobacco... they got up in front of Congress that time... it was on television...
...and swore under oath that they know nothing about addiction, disease...
It was on CSPAN. Yeah.
Okay, so, here you are... you go to work for tobacco. You come from corporate cultures where research, really, creative thinking, these are core values. You go to tobacco... Tobacco is a sales culture. Market and sell enormous volume. Go to a lot of golf tournaments. The hell with everything else. What are you doing? Why are you working for "tobacco" in the first place?
I can't talk about it. The work I was supposed to do... might have had some positive effect. I don't know... it could have been beneficial. Mostly, I got paid a lot. I took the money. My wife was happy. My kids had good medical. Good schools. Got a great house. I mean, what the hell is wrong with that...?
I've always thought of myself... as a man of science. That's what's wrong with it.
Then... you're in a state of conflict, Jeff.
The new place? New.
You okay?
You know, I was thinking of calling you tomorrow, anyway. How are your kids handling the new house?
Good. You have kids?
No, you said you were going to call me tomorrow. So, what about?
Oh, yes, yes, yes, I did... I wanted to talk to you. I wanted to hook up and talk to you. About what we were talking about in your car.
...okay.
Makes you feel good? Putting what you know to use?
How'd you know that, Lowell?
It's obvious, isn't it?
Hello. You there
Yeah... Look, thanks for talking. I'm sorry I woke you up.
It's okay.
What did you get us?
Tempura...
The internet said you did graduate work in Wisconsin, then went to UC La Jolla with Professor... Marcus?
Marcuse. Yeah. He was my mentor. He had a major influence on the New Left in the late '60s... and on me, personally.
Next to your father?
My father? What the hell's that got to do with my father?
Is that why you became a journalist? Then you get to ask all the questions?
You charge by the hour?
My father was a mechanical engineer... most ingenious man I ever knew.
Well, my father left us when I was fiveyears old. He was not the most ingenious man I ever knew... Let's get back to Brown & Williamson. If you decide to go on "60 Minutes," I got to know everything about why you got fired.
Why?
They're gonna dig up stuff from your past, they're gonna throw it at you. I got to know what they're gonna throw. You understand?
I drink. A couple of occasions more than I should have. I was cited for shoplifting once. But it was a mistake... I pushed Liane one time. We were both stressed out because of the pressure. She went to her mother's. I got fired because when I get angry I have difficulty censoring myself. And I don't like to be pushed around!
I'm not pushing you around! I'm asking you questions.
I'm just a commodity to you, aren't I? I could be anything. Right? Anything worth putting on between commercials...
...to a network, probably, we're all commodities. To me? You are not a commodity. What you are is important.
You believe that?
No.
You should. Because when you're done, a judgment is going to go down in the court of public opinion, my friend. And that's the power you have.
You believe that?
I believe that? Yes, I believe that.
You believe that because you get information out to people... something happens?
Yes.
Maybe that's just what you've been telling yourself all these years to justify having a good job? Having status? And maybe for the audience, it's just voyeurism? Something to do on a Sunday night. And maybe it won't change a fucking thing. And people like myself and my family are left hung out to dry. Used up! Broke, alone!
Are you talking to me or did somebody else just walk in here?! I never abandoned a source!
I don't think you really understand 
No, don't evade a choice you gotta make be questioning my reputation or "60 Minutes'" with this cheap skepticism!
I have to put my family's welfare on the line here, my friend! And what are you puttin' up? You're puttin' up words!
Words! While you've been dickin' around at fucking company golf tournaments, I been out in the world, giving my word and backing it up with action.
Excuse me. Yeah...
They're terrorizing us. Death threats?! To my family? My kids?!
Jeff, call the FBI right away...
They do this with impunity!
Jeff...
They get to go home at night. What does it cost these people to do this to us? Nothing?! My girls are crying, so fuck them! I want to tape! I'm done thinking about it.
Good. But Jeff...
I'll call them, Lowell.
Liane, this is a preliminary... You didn't tell her we were taping? What did she think she was coming to New York for?
...to talk about it. To think about it. I had a plan to ease her into it. But, I really  I didn't know how to do that...
Lowell, I can't afford 
...they "volunteered." A friend owns a large security company.
I called Richard Scruggs in Mississippi...
I heard.
I'm going to be a witness for them in their litigation. So I'm going to fly to Pascagoula to give a deposition...
I know. I'm going to go there tonight...
Did you have a good day?
You attract a crowd.
Yeah, great.
I heard about the Kentucky gag order...
I don't know what to do.
What's changed?
You mean... since this morning?
No. I mean since whenever...
"Part of the reason I'm here is I felt that their representation clearly, at least within..."
Run that Sandefur piece on "nicotine's not addictive." Run that oncamera. Then cut right to Wigand with "I believe they perjured..." Then go wide to the CEOs all taking the oath. Back on Jeff and play the pause after the word "felt" on the Bside...
I don't know how to say this, Jeff, except to just say it right out, so I'll say it. They do not want to air it.
What?!
B & W may have threatened litigation... CBS is on the block... But you, I mean, I know how...
No.
No? No, what?
I do not think that you "know" for me... what it is to walk in my shoes... ...for my kids to have seen it... for them to know why I've put them through what I did... the public airing of that... the testament to why I did what I did... you're telling me is not going to see the light of day.
Oh, you know what we do or do not need to know? Since when have you become a media expert?
What do you want to do, Lowell, look up my ass, too...!
I told the truth!
Everything... you... say! And I can't defend you, man, with one hand tied behind my back! Because you keep from me... what they can discover. And they will discover everything! Believe me.
...I was young. I was young... confused... We didn't handle it the right way...
She sued you for back payments of child support?
She did not sue me. We had a dispute over money... I settled it, she dropped the complaint... Any other questions?
Yes. Did you lie about being on the American Judo Team in the Olympics?
What?
Some public relations guy got a hold of a tape of an interview... where you're saying you were on the American Judo Team in the Olympics...?
What kind of shit is this? I was not on the team, I sparred with the Olympic Team... okay?
Alright... the ABC Telemarketing Company?
ABC...?
ABC Telemarketing Company.
A can opener! A $39.95 can opener. I canceled payment... It was junk. You ever bounce a check, Lowell? You ever look at another woman's tits? You ever cheat a little on your taxes? Whose life, if you look at it under a microscope, doesn't have any flaws...?
That's the whole point, Jeffrey. That's the whole point. Anyone's. Everyone's. They are gonna look under every rock, dig up every flaw, every mistake you've ever made. They are going to distort and exaggerate everything you've ever done, man. Don't you understand?
What does this have to do with my testimony?
That's not the point.
What does this have to do with my testimony?! I told the truth! It's valid and true and provable!
That's not the fucking point, whether you told the truth or not! Hello...?
I told the truth... I told the truth.
I've got to teach class. I've got to go. I've got to teach class.
And I've got to refute every fucking accusation made in this report before The Wall Street Journal runs. I am trying to protect you, man!
You manipulated me into this...!
That's bullshit, Jeff!
You greased the rails!
I greased the rails for a guy who wanted to say yes. I helped him to say yes. Alright. You're not a robot, Jeff! That's all. You got a mind of your own, don't you?
"Up to you, Jeffrey. That's the power you have, Jeffrey. Vital insider information the American public need to know." Lowell Bergman, the hot show who never met a source he couldn't turn around.
I fought for you... and I still fight for you.
You fought for me...?! ...you manipulated me... into where I am now... staring at the Brown & Williamson Building. It's all dark. Except the 10th floor! That's the legal department. That's where they fuck with my life!
Jeffrey, where you going with this? So where you goin'? You are important to a lot of people, Jeffrey. You think about that. You think about them.
Where are you, anyway?
I'm on a leave of absence. Forced vacation.
You try and have a good time.
Yeah. Yeah, I will.
Coffee?
Yeah... Thank you.
How have you liked your stay?
What I've seen... I've liked.
Please to explain, why I should agree to interview... with proZionist American media?
Because I think Hezbollah is trying to broaden into a political party right now. So you care about what you're thought of in America. And in America, at this moment in time, Hezbollah does not have a face. That's why.
Perhaps you prove journalism objectivity and I see the questions first. Then I decide if I grant the interview.
No. We don't do that. You've seen "60 Minutes" and Mike Wallace. So you know our reputation for integrity and objectivity. You also know we are the highestrated, mostrespected, TVmagazine news show in America.
Tell him I will see him day after tomorrow.
That's good. That works. Uh, you know, I want to ask you something... I know it sounds odd... but...
We're there.
Good, well ask him if Arabic is his second language.
Don't interpret that! Hold it. Hold it. Hold it! Slow, slow!! Sheikh, do you mind... if you would just turn your chair a little bit to face Mr. Wallace?
...come in earlier on Mike's Marine barracks line when he's talking to Sheikh Mussawi...
You eating with us?
Yeah.
Bring a tie so they'll let us in the front door...
He referred to this... the Seven Dwarfs...
What "Seven Dwarfs?"
The seven CEOs of Big Tobacco... Referred to this... Said they should be afraid of him... I assume, afraid of what he could reveal. Now, you tell me. What does this guy have to say that threatens these people?
Well, it isn't "cigarettes are bad for you"...
Hardly new news.
No shit.
What's this?
Okay, let's look through the looking glass the other way...
What do you mean?
We got a guy... who wants to talk but he's constrained. What if he were "compelled"?
Oh, torture? Great ratings.
So, is everything okay?
How are the rooms? Comfortable?
Thank you for saying that...
Do you think we could talk about the taping? Tomorrow's taping, just so we can get it out of the way and order...
Yeah, well, questions will go toward what work you did there, why you were fired. And others will deal...
Oh, man.
Who are these people?
Ordinary people! Under extraordinary pressure, Mike. What the hell do you expect? Grace and consistency?
It went great in Mississippi, Mike.
Good.
I think what we're trying to tell you is that it happens all the time. This is a news organization. People are always telling us things they shouldn't. We have to verify if it's true and in the public interest... And if it is, we air it.
After we corroborate it. That's why we've never lost a lawsuit and run a classy show. Anything else?
I discovered this. SEC filing... For the sale of the CBS Corporation to Westinghouse Corporation.
What?
Lowell.
"Put the corporation at risk"...? Give me a fucking break!
Lowell.
These people are putting our whole reason for doing what we do... on the line!
Lowell!
What?
I'm with Don on this.
I've been banished. In lieu of being fired.
I took off on Tisch. I took off on corporate. They'll know they're not going to see everything on Sunday night...
I don't know. How does that get Wigand on the air?
Do me a favor, will you? Spare me, for God's sake. Get in the real world. What do you think? I'm going to resign in protest? To force it on the air? The answer is "no." I don't plan to spend the end of my days wandering in the wilderness of National Public Radio. That decision I've already made.
Yeah.
You disappeared on me. How long you staying?
I disappeared on you?
Alright. What did you think?
I think it was a disgrace.
Did I get you up?
No, I usually sit around in my hotel room, dressed like this at 5:30 in the morning, sleepy look on my face.
How many shows have we done? Huh? C'mon, how many?
Oh, lots.
Yeah, that's right.
But in all that time, Mike, did you ever get off a plane, walk into a room, and find that a source for a story changed his mind? Lost his heart? Walked out on us? Not one fucking time! You want to know why?
I see a rhetorical question on the horizon.
I'm going to tell you why. Because when I tell someone I'm going to do something, I deliver.
Oh, how fortunate I am to have Lowell Bergman's moral tutelage to point me down the shining path. To show me the way.
Oh, please, Mike...
Give me a break!
No, you give me a break! I never left a source hung out to dry, ever. Abandoned. Not 'til right fucking now! When I came on this job, I came with my word intact. I'm gonna leave with my word intact. Fuck the rules of the game! Hell, you're supposed to know me, Mike. What the hell did you expect? You expect me to lie down? Back off? What, get over it?
In the real world, when you get to where I am, there are other considerations...
Like what? Corporate responsibility? What, are we talking celebrity here?
I'm not talking celebrity, vanity, CBS. I'm talking about when you're nearer the end of your life than the beginning. Now, what do you think you think about then? The future? "In the future I'm going to do this? Become that?" What "future"? No. What you think is: how will I be regarded in the end? After I'm gone.
Mike... in my...
You and I have been doing this together for fourteen years.
That Canada story? Still interest you?
Everything interests me.
C'mon, it all worked out. You came out okay in the end...
I did? What do I tell a source on the next tough story? Hang in with us. You'll be fine... maybe?
Yes, I'm right here. Could you call me back on a hard line?
Alright.
Area code 2125550199.
I'll call you then.
...you filed a lawsuit against tobacco on behalf of the State of Mississippi, did you not?
That's right...
Well, I'm working with someone, now, who was the former head of research at Brown & Williamson, a former corporate officer there.
What's your interest in this, Mr. Bergman?
Well, he may tape an interview with us. And, we believe if his testimony showed up in a court record first, it would free him up from his confidentiality agreement and give him some protection.
Has he decided to go public? Because let me tell you, we've been doing this for three years now, and we've worked with a lot of corporate cases involving whistleblowers, so we know... Big Tobacco will do everything in their power to stop him. So, is your man truly committed?
Well, actually, no. Well, he's on the fence. That's the point.
Well, we'd certainly be interested in making his acquaintance, but without knowing what he's going to do...
Well, would you want him to call you? Or, you want to call him? How do you want to do it?
It would be better if he called us.
Yeah.
Alright?
Okay. Thank you.
Yeah, I'm here.
What chance is there of getting Jeff's interview on the air...?
...I'd be lying to you if I did not tell you how important it was in the court of public opinion...
...and I'd be lying to you if I didn't tell you, I'm about out of moves, Dick...
All right. See you...
Yeah...
...you fucked me!
Who is this?
Is it too late?
No. No, it's okay... How's  how's the new place?
Oh, my God.
You're not even on this anymore... What do you care?
Jeff! Wake the fuck up! Everybody is on the line here. If they can catch you in a lie, they can paint everything with that brush. Do you understand? Everything you say!
Oh, someone took a poll? "Are all things Canadian boring...?"
It's Stuart... he's in Mexico City...
Let me call you back...
No classes this morning?
Will he go oncamera and talk about the Mexico City branch?
Will independent sources corroborate that?
Hello? Yeah...
Let me see this... No, 'cause I gotta know where you're going at all times.
I can't... I've got to fly to Boston tomorrow.
Two p.m. Great. Byebye.
..."ignition propensity?" ...you understand any of this...?
...no... this looks like a table of temperatures... Who's this from?
...it's anonymous. References to "P.M." It's got to be Philip Morris, huh?
I have to take a shower.
What's wrong?
They're killing the Wigand interview...
What?!
They're pretending it's process. Bullshit, it's foregone.
What are you and Mike going to do?
I'm alone on this...
Oh, baby...
Jeffrey Wigand...
Jeffrey...
"I'm Lowell Bergman, I'm from '60 Minutes.'" You know, you take the "60 Minutes" out of that sentence, nobody returns your phone call. Maybe Wigand's right. Maybe I'm hooked. What am I hooked on? The rush? "60 Minutes"? What the hell for? Infotainment. It's so fucking useless, all of it.
So, it's a big country with a free press. You can go work somewhere else.
Free press? Press is free... for anyone who owns one. Larry Tisch has a free press.
Get some perspective, Lowell.
I got perspective.
No, you do not.
From my perspective, what's been going on and what I've been doing is ridiculous. It's halfmeasures.
You're not listening. Really know what you're going to do before you do it.
Thank you, Bob.
Who's calling?
My name's Lowell Bergman... I'm 
Did you say Berman?
No, Bergman... B.E.R.G.M.A.N.... I'm a producer with "60 Minutes"...
"60 Minutes"?
Yeah.
"60 Minutes," the television show?
Yes.
I can take her.
Don't you have to be at the office?
Is there any more rice...?
Yes, it's on the stove...
I'm sorry, darling, have you seen my coffee mug...?
Try the car.
Uh, what are those boxes?
I'm going to the store. You need anything?
What do you need at the store?
Soy sauce...
Right now?
That's my stuff from the office...
Why did you take your stuff from the office?
I didn't want to leave it there...
I don't understand.
I got fired this morning... Where else am I gonna take it?
Why? Who said?
Thomas Sandefur...
What are we supposed to do...? What about our medical coverage; what about our health? What about our car payments? The payments on this house?
There's a severance agreement... It includes cash payouts over time and continuing medical coverage... Sure you don't need anything?
No, thank you.
What's going on?
I told him that you had an Email death threat that said if you didn't shut the "F" up, they were going to kill you...
...taping? What are you taping?
I'm doing an interview.
An interview! Do you know what they will do to us...! I thought... Sorry.
Please don't wash your hands in the sink.
Where should I wash them?
Use the bathroom.
What's the difference...
That's for food.
I don't think I can do this... I want to stand by my husband... I really do, Jeffrey. But I don't think I can do this anymore. I am so sorry...
Can we talk about this when I get back?
Yes... Jeffrey.
Hello?
Jim, it's Lowell.
Here's how it works. You ask me questions. I tell you if you're wrong.
Okay. Lowell?
Yeah?
You're sure you want to do this?
Why?
Hey, it doesn't work? You've burned your bridges, man.
You ready...?
Okay... About this whistleblower... Did Mike and Don go along with the corporate decision?
Lowell?
Did I tell you you were wrong?
No. I'm assuming the cavein begins with the threat of litigation from Big Tobacco. Are we talking... are we talking Brown & Williamson, here?
Hey, Lowell.
How are you, Jim?
Hey, listen, I hear you guys are sitting on something sensational over there.
Hi, baby.
Catch you later.
How prominent? What kind of placement?
Oh, c'mon, Lowell. This is The New York Times. I don't know...
Well, until you do, all I can tell you is what you already know... they will not air an interview.
Call me back in ten.
What does that mean? "Rife with  ?"
I'm told unusual promises were made to Wigand.
No, only that we would hold the story until it was safe for him...
And, I'm told there are questions as to our "star witness'" veracity.
His "veracity" was good enough for the State of Mississippi.
Our standards have to be higher than anyone else's, because we are the standard... for everyone else...
Well, as a "standard"... I'll hang with "is the guy telling the truth?"
Well, with tortious interference, I'm afraid... the greater the truth, the greater the damage.
Come again?
They own the information he's disclosing. The truer it is, the greater the damage to them. If he lied, he didn't disclose their information. And the damages are smaller.
Is this "Alice in Wonderland"?
Is CBS corporate telling CBS News do not go to air with this story?
You're getting ahead of yourself. We're all in this together. We're all CBS. We'll find out soon. Thank you, gentlemen.
Shall I send for coffee? Sorry I'm late.
No, no, we're fine...
Are you sure?
If this holds up, and it very well may not, Mike... but, if it did. And we aired this segment? And CBS was sued by Brown & Williamson? I think we could be at grave risk.
How grave?
Well, at the end of the day... because of your segment... the Brown & Williamson Tobacco Company... could own CBS.
Mike... Mike... Mike...
"Mike?"
Debbie...
Hey, Lowell.
Oh, Bill... Main Justice is investigating a major New York bank. Laundering narco dollars out of their Mexico City branch. You want it for the Evening News?
What about you, you got a crew already?
I'm gonna do a followup.
Okay.
Catch ya' later.
Did you handle the round, Mr. Wigand?
Yes, I'm afraid I did.
A gun? Yes.
What caliber is your gun?
What caliber is my gun?
Yes, sir. What caliber is your gun?
What does that have to do with the price of tea in China?
You think I put that bullet in the mailbox myself...?
If we could take a look, Mr. Wigand...
That bullet was for a .38 caliber. Do you own a .38?
Yes, I do. A .38 Target Master. In my gun safe downstairs. A .45 Gold Cup. A .22 target pistol. So what?
Do you have a history of emotional problems, Mr. Wigand?
Yes. Yes, I do. Yes, I get extremely emotional when assholes put bullets in my mailbox...!
You can't take that... It's personal property...!
We have a search warrant, Mr. Wigand. There's been a death threat.
...my files! Personal correspondence...
That computer has everything...
You alright, Mr. Wigand?
There has been so much soul searching about this Wigand, I've decided we should cut an alternate version of the show without his interview.
So, what happened to Ms. Caperelli's checking with outside counsel first, all that crap?
That's happening. And, hopefully we won't have to use the alternate, but we should have it in the can.
I'm not touching my film...
I'm afraid you are.
No, I'm not...
We're doing this with or without you, Lowell. If you like, I can assign another producer to edit your show...
So, now, if you'll excuse me, gentlemen, Mr. Rather's been complaining about his chair again. As they start to leave...
Before you go...
And what are you implying?
I'm not implying. I'm quoting. More vested interests... "Persons Who Will Profit From This Merger... Ms. Helen Caperelli, General Counsel of CBS News, 3.9 million. Mr. Eric Kluster, President of CBS News, 1.4 million..."
I heard Wigand's deposition got sealed.
Yeah, they argued he was going to reveal the secret formula of "Kools" to the world. "Sealed" doesn't hurt Scruggs' litigation, and since we're the only ones with the story, I believe we're sitting on an exclusive.
"Tortious interference"? Sounds like a disease caught by a radio.
Lunch?
Since when has the paragon of investigative journalism allowed lawyers to determine the news content on "60 Minutes"?
It's an alternate version. So what if we have an alternate version? And I don't think her being cautious is so damned unreasonable.
Yeah, I heard rumors.
It's not a rumor. It's a sale. If Tisch can unload CBS for $81 a share to Westinghouse and then is suddenly threatened with a multibilliondollar lawsuit from Brown & Williamson, that could screw up the sale, could it not?
Are you suggesting that she and Eric are influenced by money?
Oh, no, of course they're not influenced by money. They work for free. And you are a Volunteer Executive Producer.
CBS does not do that. And, you're questioning our journalistic integrity?!
No, I'm questioning your hearing! You hear "reasonable" and "tortious interference." I hear... "Potential Brown & Williamson lawsuit jeopardizing the sale of CBS to Westinghouse." I hear... "Shut the segment down. Cut Wigand loose. Obey orders. And fuck off...!" That's what I hear.
You're exaggerating!
I am? You pay me to go get guys like Wigand, to draw him out. To get him to trust us, to get him to go on television. I do. I deliver him. He sits. He talks. He violates his own fucking confidentiality agreement. And he's only the key witness in the biggest public health reform issue, maybe the biggest, mostexpensive corporatemalfeasance case in U.S. history. And Jeffrey Wigand, who's out on a limb, does he go on television and tell the truth? Yes. Is it newsworthy? Yes. Are we gonna air it? Of course not. Why? Because he's not telling the truth? No. Because he is telling the truth. That's why we're not going to air it. And the more truth he tells, the worse it gets!
You are a fanatic. An anarchist. You know that? If we can't have a whole show, then I want half a show rather than no show. But oh, no, not you. You won't be satisfied unless you're putting the company at risk!
C'mon, what are you? And are you a businessman? Or are you a newsman?! Because that happens to be what Mike and I do for a living...
So, what are you going to do?
Well, what do you think I'm going to do? Quit in protest? I'm not going to do that.
You're taking "no" for an answer?
No. I'm not going to take "no" for an answer. No.
Then what are you going to do?
I'm staying right here. Doing my job. Fighting to get my show on the air. You don't like it? Hey, I'll tell you what... fire my ass...
End up in a highprofile lawsuit with Lowell, the First Amendment martyr? I don't think so. Take a look at this... This is a summary of a dossier that's being prepared.
What the hell are you doing?
What does it look like I'm doing? I'm editing.
No, not that. I'm talking about the Associated Press. They got this story that we pulled this interview and they talked to Mike and I. Did you tell them that we were lying?
No. I should have. I told them I disagreed with you, Mike and Kluster that this segment is as good as the original. I'm not lying for you. I'm not gonna shut up for you. Not on any of it.
Hey! I'm not going to fire you, okay? Take a vacation. Now!
The New York Times ran a blow by blow of what we talked about behind closed doors! You fucked us!
No, you fucked you! Don't invert stuff! Big Tobacco tried to smear Wigand; you bought it. The Wall Street Journal, here, not exactly a bastion of anticapitalist sentiment, refutes Big Tobacco's smear campaign as the lowest form of character assassination! And now, even now, when every word of what Wigand has said on our show is printed, the entire deposition of his testimony in a court of law in the State of Mississippi, the cat totally out of the bag, you're still standing here debating! Don, what the hell else... do you need?
Can I go to dance tomorrow? I'm better...
...if you are, then I'll take Barbara to soccer and take you to dance after...
Do you want more rice?
Maybe later.
How about you?
What are you cooking?
I'm cooking pasta primavera.
Oh, I love that stuff.
I want you to get legal onto CORPORATE CONFIDENTIALITY AGREEMENTS. Boundaries of their constraint. Kentucky state law about. I want you to drop everything.
Okay.
What does that do?
What do you mean, what's it do?
What I mean is, like, how does it cut through the confidentiality agreement?
Because he has to reveal it in a court of law. It's on record, it's out. It's no secret anymore. So how can they restrain his speech or retaliate? It's out in the world...
Shit...
Oh, we need cops on the street. We don't need them on horses.
I don't know what he was thinking.
Oh, for God's sake, what has this guy got, a horse fetish?
Alright, alright.
Get me to New Orleans this afternoon. I'll shoot the fucking thing myself!
When's the air date?
Excuse me, Lowell. Sharon's on line 3.
Tell her I'll call her back in ten.
What was that about?
Get me Wigand.
Sure.
...fuck is this? Fuck!
I can't get out of here til mid morning. I'll be in tomorrow night... Listen, could you call a number for me, it's in Mississippi...
Okay. Hold on a second... What is it?
Yeah. Yeah, sure. I'll see if I can find him. Hold on... Yeah, Don's looking for you...
Good.
The subheading is, "Brown & Williamson Has a 500Page Dossier Attacking Chief Critic." It quotes Richard Scruggs calling it "the worst kind of an organized smear campaign against a whistleblower."
Well, are you or are you not, Charlie?
You bet we are. And I can't talk to you now.
We gotta hook up.
Sure. Where?
P.J.'s.
I'll be there.
When's your deadline?
Monday.
Push it.
What? Forget it.
It's a smear campaign, Charlie.
It's drawn from a selectively circulated...
Oh, it's real selective... about as hard to get a hold of as the Manhattan phone book.
Well, it's authoritative and is overwhelmingly documented.
And it's bullshit. And if I'm right, are you going to put the Journal's reputation behind a story that's going to blow up in your face?
I'll take a look at what you got. But I'm not moving any deadlines 'cause you say so.
Are you all right?
Yeah. Catch you later.
These are their leads, their sources. I want you to have your reporters...
Suein Hwang and Milo Geyelin.
Have them make their own calls. They'll find that these sources have a different story than the one that's in the dossier... Push the deadline, Charlie...
Let me tell you something, Lowell. Look, look, look. You're talking about two agents in a regional office in Louisville. I got the goddamn Unabomber threatening to blow up LAX! I gotta move 45 agents from all over the country into L.A. Alright? When I get a chance, I'll give it a look...
You better take a good look! Because I'm getting two things: pissed off and curious! Now, any of these guys been offered jobs in corporate security after they retire? Either one of those guys have exagent pals already in those jobs? Like, for instance, their exsupervisor, who's already at Brown & Williamson as we fucking speak?
Just ran into two of your "geologists." Geologists whose hands aren't all chewed up...?
Lowell?
We'll give you a heads up before we launch.
How long?
Three hours.
You got a deal.
He's into kind of little cars, that...
That remote control thing?
Yeah.
Alright, we'll do that tomorrow.
Mom.
Yes, baby?
There's Dad, on TV.
Hi, honey.
Hi, Daddy.
What's new?
Ms. Laufer gave me a star today.
Yeah? What for?
For reading.
That's great... Little early for cartoons, isn't it?
Okay.
Sweetheart, c'mon. C'mon.
She was playing with my Pooh doll again...
Here we go. Deep breaths, deep breaths.
She was playing with the Pooh doll.
Pooh's dusty, sweetheart... he's dusty, and you breathed him in, okay? So what's  what's happening to you now is... cells called mast cells told your lungs "don't breathe any more of that dust in." ...and the airways in your lungs are like branches. And when the branches close up, you get an asthmatic attack. And, we give you medicine, and you get better. Huh? Okay? You're better already, aren't you?
I'll take some.
Instant rice...?
Can I go over to Janeane's house?
Hey, baby. What's wrong?
What's that outside, Daddy?
Did you see somebody or did you hear them?
I heard them.
Where?
In the backyard.
Screw the PEM...What about Al...
Poor bastard.
What'd he say, how's he know about Al?
What does he know?
Too much.
Look, nobody knows we did it.
Whoever took it does.
It'l take months.
So we better get started.
What about Al...
Right there.
Thank you.
This the only spare?
Yes.
The other working.
Perfectly.
Ow?...
It'l be alright.
It will.
It doesn't hurt.
No?
Wait.
Why?
You can't take that.
Why not?
The experiment. The danger...
It's alright.
It is?
It will be fine. You have another.
Just one. The back up.
Could I have it, please.
I can't get it out. It would take hours.
That's alright. Just tear it apart.
Tear it apart?
Yes.
Ahhh...Okay?!!!
Mom...what are you doing here?
Leaving, now go to sleep. ...all of you.
Joe Doakes? It's quarter to 10...
I'm sorry. We're running behind. So many applicants...so few jobs... If you'll just have a seat.
I have a seat. I've had it since nine.
...Mr. Athol will be with you as soon as possible. Will you be able to wait?
Is there anything else?
A drink...
Water fountain's through that door, down the hall.
Thanks.
Must be a fulfilling occupation.
It keeps me busy. Everybody always wants something.
What could you find in this place?
...Piece of mind.
Excuse me?
Could have been drunk a little sooner, but excellent...good character...What is it?
I can't. He didn't do anything. Thanks to you.
Why are you on to him?
We've had thefts of our new stuff ...GRUNER deals in this... A big deal is going down now. I went to see if GRUNER had anything to sell. But he didn't make any moves...And when you arrived, he backed off.
Why'd you invite me here?
Someone is selling. You followed us. If it's not him, it must be you. If it's not you, it must be him... You scared him off.
What about the others.
I don't know.
What do you do about what?
...I'm looking for someone.
Is someone else here?
No. No one to speak of.
I am confused. Or maybe it's you.
...Blake
Blake?
The poet...something he said...
Yes?
Blake said that?
Yeah. One of the corniest lines I ever heard.
I'll be right there.
Where?
Dinner...tonight.
Oh...I can't. Business.
And you.
...right here too.
Haven't seen you around.
I can't do that?
Do what?
Let you leave without it.
Without what?
What's so funny?
Nothing...Al. Why do you talk that way?
What way?
Like there's someone else here.
Wait. What's your name?
...Rene.
You mean from it.
Yes, of course.
And you?
I just work for the travel firm.
You again.
Me still. They left you alone?
I waited for you.
Why?
...I...don't know.
I guess it's a combination you don't often see. Apparent attraction..
It's not apparent.
...and sort of...disinterest.
Disinterest?
As if your mind's not all there.
I am sort of scattered.
Can I help?
You are.
Are you alright?
Promise you what?
That you're not crazy.
I promise you that. I am not crazy. Course, if I was, I'd be the last to know. Why do you ask?
You talk to yourself.
But I don't listen...then I'd be crazy.
Why do you do it?
If I was with you, I wouldn't
You did.
That was then. This is now. Who am I talking to?
You're talking to me.
And how'm I doing?
You're doing...Okay.
Just Okay...
...Ummm, you really work for the foreign service?
...Naw. Made that up.
Who do you work for?
No one. No one at all. I'm unemployed. Who do you?
Trans Ocean Travel.
Is that Ryuji?
No. Ryuji just hires us.
Hires you for what?
To organize things. Meetings and travel...Whenever they come here, I handle details.
How often they come here?
He likes the quiet. They were here last week.
And you, what do you like?
That depends...
Joe! What happened to you?
Why'd you run off?
Why did you leave?
They left. I had to go with them.
Why didn't you tell me?
Why did you stay with me?
Wanted to get to know you.
Why?
You seemed interesting.
Who else is interested in me?
What do you mean?
Your friends, did they ask about me?
They kidded me a little.
What did you tell them?
There's not much to tell.
Why did they leave?
I don't know, Ryuji said there was a change of plans.
You work for Ryuji?
Sometimes. I told you I did.
Were you working for him last night?
Last night?
Did he put you up to it? Did he ask you to sleep with me?
No, he didn't do that.
He didn't.
No.
Who did?
You did.
I'm not worried, I'm not going to eat it.
This is a tough place to keep Kosher.
You're leaving.
Food doesn't agree with me.
I'm leaving too.
Why?
This business is over.
I'm sorry. What will you do?
Go back to Tokyo. Try to get another tour....You're following GRUNER?
I'm just on vacation.
Now, so am I...What's so interesting about him?
You know where he went?
What's he done?
He stole something. From a friend of mine.
He must be a good friend.
We're very close.
What'd he steal?
A chip. Goes in a computer.
One chip?
The most important one. Can you help me find him?
How do you know you can trust me?
Got to trust someone.
I don't know. He mentioned a city.
What is it?
Hiroshima.
Get your things.
You don't believe me.
Oh sure.
Then why are you smiling like that?
Lots of my clients are rich guys... They like danger..like playing with drugs and things...running around, acting mysterious.
You think I'm like that?
What's Gruner like?
They'd never talk in front of me. They'd walk away up the beach. Nervous about something.
Who was?
Ryuji and Gruner.
And Dieter.
Friend of Gruner. Just went along for the party.
And you?
It was a good job. Not many ways for a foreigner to make money here. Ryuji hires me to organize business meetings...take care of things.
Where we going?
Beats me.
This boat doesn't go anywhere. Just toots around the Inland Sea.
Must be a pickup, a rendezvous.
Then where's the chip.
What?
He plays it all the time.
Now what?
We figure out if it's in here.
How?
Why don't you get us some food. This may take some time.
That must be him. Water taxi.
Get us one.
Too late, they won't come back out till morning.
Where what?
Where would you go to sell a chip?
If Gruner led us away, Who'd he lead us away from?
Hong Kong.
What?
Dieter's gone to shoot a still job. Hong Kong.
Wait a minute! How'd you know Dieter was coming here?
I asked him.
Oh.
Why'd you ask him.
He's a client of mine! What's the matter. You can't suspect Dieter. He's a famous photographer. He makes millions.
Maybe I'm wrong. Then GRUNER won't be here.
What?
I said just relax. I'm in full control.
Chiang Cho?
...across THE BORDER. Come on!
That's not this direction. It's back the other way.
You've been there?
I know the territory.
You coming along?
So do I.
This going to work?
Maybe they're expecting Gruner. I'm gonna be him.
He's Dutch. You can't even speak Dutch.
Why not?
Can you?
Sure I can, can't I?
What happened?
I can't fly it.
What'd...you forget?
Are you alright?
Yes. No. I'm...okay. They can't do this. They can't hold us here.
Looks like they can. What did they do?
They asked about you.
What did you tell them?
That I really don't know.
Now what?
They'll listen to what we say in here.
What? Oh, about Dieter, Yes. It was him. Gruner works for him.
Why?
What a mess.
You can say that again. What do we do?
Nothing we can do.
What?
They can hold us here forever. Nobody knows about us.
Can't you do something?
I'm sorry I got you into this.
It was my choice.
Don't blame yourself, I didn't have to come along.
Why did you, then?
For you.
I encouraged you to come here. My fault as much as yours.
I was...crazy...desperate. I took it out on you. I didn't mean it. I know what she sees in you. You're kind and you're brave. If I ever get out of you, I'll be glad to call you my friend.
How?
What?
Now what?
I've never met anyone like you.
Uh...wonderful. I know I'm strange, but in my own way, I love you
I love you too.
Don't worry.
Why not, what are you going to do?
Escape.
Just like that?
I'll come back for you.
Aren't you a little optimistic?
You son of a bitch! You conned me!
You're gonna laugh.
Kiss her you fool.
Her?
Who are you? Who do you work for?
Doesn't matter. I'm on your side.
I knew it. I told him.
Now what?
We just don't stop.
He can't help us.
Do something!
Do what? I don't know. I'm no good at this.
You are, I've seen you.
It wasn't me. It was him.
It was you.
He told me what to do.
But you did it. It was you.
It was me. He just told me how...I wish he could tell me now.
If he was able, what would he say.
Come on.
That's twenty feet high.
Like Al says..."Under stress, the human body is capable of impossible feats.
Riuji?
I told you, I work for him.
What is it?
We're not moving fast enough for him.
He wants to apologise.
He should do it in person ...I mean ex person.
Yeah...I have to get away.
I know a nice island.
Yes...What is it?
What's what?
What do you want?
Nothing.
What did you say?
Nothing.
What?
I said...I didn't say..anything!
Then who did?
You did. JOE No I didn't. You said something first.
Oh...and who is it!?
I didn't say anything.
How's that for fucking Savoir Fair!
Sir?
How's that Trucklhouser Beer?
We have Henekin, Kirin... Very good, sir.
This sophistication ain't tough. All it takes is a credit card.
Now you know what I know.
Sir?
About cholesterol...You know what I know, you'd have the seafood.
Ahhh. Good choice, sir.
The fresh tuna?..
Yessir...very good sir.
That Rene...lovely girl...a killer!
I noticed you staring.
Couldn't help it. No offense. She's not your wife is she...?
And you, there are many places to get away. Why here?
A little voice in my head.
You may you find all the solitude you want.
Thanks, I appreciate that.
Don't do it!
Just give me the keys.
Whatever it is, don't do it.
Now remember, your short term memory may have been affected.
What?
Your memory.
What about it?
It may have been affected.
Oh.
You may not remember things.
What things?
I don't know...the last couple of hours...last few days.
Oh...that's okay.
When you do...
Do what?
When you remember...
Remember what?
Anything....You call us right away. You got that?
Yeah. If I remember anything... I call ...you
Right.
Who...are you?
Sergeant Finnegan. Name's right there on the card. Are you sure you're alright?
How do I look?
Fine. You look fine.
Thanks.
Well...
Well what?
We're here.
Here?
Home. Your home. The address on your form.
Oh.
Don't you want to get out?
Oh....Sure.
Why don't you lie down until you feel better.
I feel fine.
You'll feel better
I will?
Look, we'll bring your car home. just take it easy until the effects wear off. You need anything, just call this number.
Joe.
What?
Take the card.
Oh yeah, thanks...
Now, Joe, you know it was all a mistake, don't you?
No, it wasn't, It was intentional.
Why would we want to hurt you?
Not you. Them.
Who?
I don't know Who.
Al?
The little man in my... ...head...
I'm not going anywhere until you get this guy out of my head.
Of course you're not. We'll take good care of you.
Ahhh...nothing.
Been complaning of hallucinations.
Not...complaining, actually.
Been hearing voices.
Was quite excited, when he came in...
Much better now, thank you. Just sit here quietly...see there's nothing to worry about...just be my old self again....soon...
Sue who?
You...him...UST.
I don't want to intrude.
We insist.
Al Viola.
That name's familiar.
It is to me too.
You remind me of someone. You from the west coast?
...Foreign service.
And how do you service foreigners.
Well...I try to give them whatever they want.
What brings you here?
I came for a rest. As, I imagine, you did. To get away with it all.
And...you know Jan Gruner?
I think I've heard of you.
Who is your friend?
We met on the beach.
Join us.
What are you doing here, where've you been?
I have a new client.
That crazy guy?
Yes. Joe.
Well, I'm glad to see you. Sorry things broke up like that.
It's just money.
Hey, sit in the car. I'll get you a fee. Make up for what you lost on the tour.
Yes?
He's not an ordinary man.
Enough ROmance.
He's...more. Somehow, enhanced... He's...zxflbbgt!
Surveillance Cameras?
They took the tapes.
You have nothing...
We don't even know where to start. What about these people? What do we do with them?
We'll have to let them go.
Surveilliance on them all.
Must be delayed effects of the drug... I'll get him out of here.
He work for us?
Ah...no sir. He was here for a job interview.
What Job?
Doesn't matter. Then put him away.
Sir?
Private clinic. Best of care. Total privacy. We'll pay all costs.
Bit expensive, sir.
It's the least we can do. After all, it's our responsibility.
You didn't tell us you were coming?
Then how did you know?
You've cut your hair?
I dyed it. We're all getting old.
PEM115!
**?!!
Newer, more powerful design.
How about a deal?
We'll let you go. You leave the pods and the PEM.
I knew he was following us. He diverted attention, exposed Ryuji's trap..
Rene?
She found out what she could ...and delivered him here.
Impossible.
I'll prove it. We'll repeat their procedures...put a man in our POD, bring it down, and then...inject him.
If there is a POD inside him, We'll find it, and bring it out for study.
Who's our little man?
Me.
No. If anything happened, you'd be stuck in there like he was.
I take the last chip in with me. I use it, to control reenlargement, from inside.
What happened?
Joe's escaped. Dieter's in him.
In him?
It's a long story.
ya hyutn slulptsa?
They have stolen state property.
What a nerve!
Not that truth!
Aren't we all.
Sorry...
It'll remind me of you.
Works like a charm when I use it. You didn't say it right.
Doesn't matter.
What part what?
The best part. She'll love it.
I've seen that before. Never had anyone actually do it.
Do what? What'd you do?
What is your name?
Don't give her your name.
No!
Oh, I can't.
Good.
We've ruined his market in Japan.. Where's Dieter?
Dieter?
I'm against it.
I insist.
Can you fly this?
Don't worry.
I'm...scared.
Look, I don't know how we're gonna get out of this.
I didn't do anything.
I know we fight, but I don't mean it. You're quite a guy. No one else could have dealt with this.
Nice?
In my own way...I want you to know that...I love you.
What kind of a deal?
Let us get to the border!
Then what?
I knew you were trouble.
Trouble...is, if we both get stuck here.
JOE Go to, What the Hell does that mean?!!
GOTOE. It's some islands.
JOE What does some island have to do with this? It's a mistake?
It's all we've got.
JOE What abilities...?
Face it, we're the men for the job. Besides, if someone is really chasing you, the best way to avoid them is to keep moving ...and FIND THE GODDAMN PEM.
I've got twenty hours left. I could die in here. And you're falling in love.
JOE It's not love. It's like. It's real strong like. And I got your information. Now, get off my back!
Some friend you are! You know what I hope?
You just got a Mickey.
RYUJI Bandaio. Grown near here.
I said something.
I know you did!
No, not her. Me.
Who's you?
My name is AL.
Al ???!!!
Where are you,...Al?
You're not gonna believe this...
Try me.
I'm...inside you.
I'm reporting you to the .....transit authority!!!
What's going on?
...reporting....him... ventriloquism...On a bus
Don't do that.
Why not.
Arrrgh!
It wasn't him.
Who was it?
Me.
Who?
Al.
Al.
Yes?
This candid camera?
You're in my head...
Yes.
Your name is Al...
Yes.
I see...
No...no...it's nothing.. Rehearsing a play... What light through yonder window breaks...It is Al... and he's in my head.
What is your name?
You're in my head? You don't know my name?
I just got here.
What??? You lose your lease on a condo?
Where are we?
Where are we? We're on the street. We're walking down the street. We're talking to ourselves. People are staring at us.
What street?
What street?! We're walking down QUEER STREET. We coming to Dopey Drive. We're about to be put somewhere quiet where they won't mind that we talk to ourselves.
Why don't we go home?
Go home. Good idea. Get some rest.
...I need to make a phone call.
Do me a favor, Al.
Yeah?
Shut up!
Somebody's been here.
Where are we now?
My place, can't you see?
No.
You're in my head, you can talk to me and hear what I say, but you can't see anything.
Right.
Kind of an oversight, wouldn't you say.
I'm working on it. Soon as I find the right nerve bundle.
Nerve bundle! What are you doing? You just leave the nerve bundles right where they are.
Who are you?
Who am I?
Yeah...Who?
Well...If you're in my head... to you, I'm...GOD!
Quit screwing around, this is important.
It's my head, I'll be the judge of that. Anyway, who are you?
I told you, my name is Al.
What are you doing in my head, Al?
You've heard of the PEM114...
That a new Datsun?
Are you threatening me?
I'm trying to get you to listen to reason.
Look! I didn't ask to be in you. Don't blame me for it. You did it.
Me? What'd I do?
Yeah. What did you do? You explain it. ...why I'm not at the lab right now, in my tube, with my crew. Explain that!
I don't know what you're talking about.
The Nicholson Node. I suppose you haven't heard of that either.
No.
You've heard of U.S.T.?
I just went there for a job.
Then how'd I get here?
I know...it sounds insane.
You said it.
What are you doing?
Loading a gun.
What for?
Kill myself.
Are you crazy?
Yep.
Don't do it. Don't aim at the head.
Used to be, things were bad. No job...no money...no girl. Now I got all that and I'm crazy too.
You're not crazy.
Hear voices don't I.
Of course you do!
Then I'm crazy.
You're not crazy. Don't...wait a minute, just let me explain.
You're gonna explain.
Yeah JOE Why there's a little man in my head?
Yeah.
Why he's argumentative?
Yes...Yes...I'll explain it all. Just put the gun down.
You'll be alive.
With a man in my head...
Yeah.
What was that?
Who was that? Somebody out there?
You weren't listening!
Sorry...all this...buzzing in my head. Why don't I just take you back to UST?
Why don't you?
No they won't.
Why not?
I'll talk to them.
Oh...Gooood!
I'll tell you what to say.
If I get you back to the lab, will you get out of my head?
If I'm real, they'll get me out. If I'm not, they'll treat you. Either way you'll be better off than you are now. You'll get a reward.
Anyone there?
No one. Maybe I dreamed it all up.
Behind us?
Still clear. Just a motorcycle.
What's that?
Nothing. Just the cyclist. He's passed us.
What'd he look like?
He's not the problem. It's the van in the back.
What do I do?
Outrun them.
This is a Fiesta!
Now what?
Whatever you do, just...don't stop.
I wouldn't say that.
Then what are you stopping for?
Get your breathing down. You sound like a cement mixer.
Can't see a Goddamn thi..
I want out.
Too late...They want you.
Why? AL You know too much.
I don't know anything. I just want to go home.
You have no choice, you're involved. Will you help?
Calm Down! Act rational.
How do you act when someone trys to kill you?
I don't know...To get Al.
No. Don't tell the guards.
Did you hear that?
Yeah. Al wants to talk to you!
It can't take that long.
Why?
JOE Or what?
I don't know. I don't want to find out.
They could put you back in the tube..
I'd be helpless and useless. They don't have the PEM. Without that...there's no chance.
Well...they sure as hell aren't gonna get it for you.
They're busy covering their asses. They're not the type of people we need."
Yeah...Who is?
I am. You are.
You are CRAZY!
You're the one talking to a little guy in your head. ...We'll have to do it on our own.
What do you mean we.
You gotta help.
I did. I brought you back here.
We're a team...My...talent. Your... mobility.
Thanks.
Think of the scientific data we'll gain. Come on, lets get out of here.
I'm not leaving until you do.
Ever think of what they might have to do to find me?
Find You?
I'm not gonna make it easy.
They'll have to take you apart. ...piece by piece.
Why don't you just get out, leave me alone.
Sue them.
I'll sue.
I don't like the sound of that.
We have to get out of here.
Door's locked.
See the codelock? Punch this in. 26993
Now what.
Go out, take your first left.
Just walk down the hall?
With Authority!
Which way do I go?
What does it say.
Corridor A.
Take a left and your next right.
Where are we going?
A lab and equipment.
Is it familiar? Have you been here before.
I was thirsty. He told me to get a drink.
Who did?
The man.
Oh my God...What did he look like, the man?
I can't remember..
Like the guys that attacked us.
What do you mean?
Black suits and helmets.
That's it. They know I'm in here. We've got to find them.
That's not a good idea.
They think we're safe here. They don't really need us. They're probably long gone.
Gone where?
Don't know.
You need ID in there?
You do. To get out of here. You're gonna be me.
I don't wanna be you. I wanna go home.
You can't go home. When UST finds we're gone, they'll come after you and put us away.
Anything...A feeling...a smell..?
Nothing!
Wait a minute. The fight. Where did he get you?
Just scratched my arm, why?
I'll be out of touch for a while. Just get to the airport.
The airport! Hey, wait a minute.
I'm back.
I'm at the airport.
Good. Get to a phone.
Who is it?
Not who. A data bank. Just keep your ear to the phone and don't make a sound.
Don't talk, I told you. You just screwed it up.
What am I supposed to do?
Nothing. You just do nothing.
What is it?
Composition of the sand, ...trace elements..unique...
What do we do?
Send a man there. A secret agent.
Who?... Wait a minute! I'm no agent, secret or otherwise. And..I'm alone.
You are not alone. But you are incon picuous...and, with our abilities...
You mean...just leave.
We get on a plane.
We get on which plane?
What about money?
What about it?
I don't have any.
Use my credit cards.
I can't do that.
Why not?
It's illegal.
Who cares?
I'll get in trouble.
You are in trouble. Now do it.
...and a license to kill...
Well, if not to kill, then to bother and annoy.
They'll know who I am.
We'll change your appearance.
It's just not enough.
It's attitude...how you carry yourself.
What's wrong with how I carry myself.
Nothing, but it's yours. Change it. Change your whole persona.
Oh yeah, to what?
You'll be me.
I don't want to be you. I don't even like you, why would I want to be you?
Because you got my ID. Now brace yourself. I'm gonna try something with your glands.
You leave my glands alone!
Now what?
The beach.
The beach?
How else do you get seaweed under your nails?
Eating sushi?
Just get there.
Holy shit!
What is it?
...Just beautiful.
Do you notice anything.
The sky, the sun, the sea... There's no one here. It's deserted. What now?
Swim.
Good Idea!
Take it easy, now. Don't want you in over your head.
Little late for that.
Here...all the seaweed you want. Now, what?
You eat it.
You eat it. You know what this stuff tastes like?
I'm living on freeze dried limas and ham. Just eat it.
Now what?
The sand.
Eat it?
Eat it.
I don't want to eat it.
Why not?
It's sand.
For chrissakes, it's only sand. You should see some of the stuff that's floating around in here. That sand's the cleanest thing in you, including me. Now EAT it!
Now lie down somewhere quiet and rest, I'll be back in a while.
Where are you going? Wait!
Al, are you doing anything in there?
What? What do you mean?
Are you screwing with any nerves?
Beautiful!
What was?
A girl.
This must be business, there's nothing else here.
Follow it.
She's...pretty fast.
You're out of shape.
What is it?
She's beautiful...! What do I do?
You're beautiful..
What's happening?
She doesn't seem to understand.
Try another language.
Which language?
How should I know?
Help me out, will you?
What can I do? You're on your own.
What do I do?
Don't just stand there, say something.
What?
Anything. Aw hell...Just tell her the truth.
.
.
Wait.
Wait.
Where is she staying?
Where are you staying?
Touch her.
What?
Touch some part of her body. Trust me. It works.
...Joe.
No...you idiot!
What happened?
...Rene...
Where are you going?
To the hotel. To register.
Without your pants.
Maybe they won't stand on ceremony.
Good thing I'm here to do the thinking.
Yeah. Some help. That poetry really killed her.
It worked.
I made it work.
You stumbled around. Remember, you've got my ID, you've got to be me, not some stumblebum.
Rene...
I'm not some hot shot test pilot. I'm not some playboy. I don't usually pick up girls.
Well you did it today.
Yeah. I did it.
But, you've got to have... sophistication ...savoir faire.
Now, where would I be?
What are you looking at?
But what's it look like?
What's nothing look like? ...it looks like nothing.
Is something glinting?
What is it?
Looks like...the optic nerve. I can see out!
You really like that shirt?
This...is not going to work out.
Much too blue.
Not blue enough.
Mind your own business.
It is my business. It's my name.
But the rest is me. I'll dress like I want.
Not that tie with that coat.
Why not?!
What did that cost?
You want sophistication, it don't come cheap.
Doesn't.
Which one is she?
The beautiful one.
They both look good to me.
You have no taste.
Get close to them.
That place. By the window.
You're not just after this girl, are you?
Who, me?
You got a better idea, you tell me. Other than her, there's no one here I know.
Pan the group, will you. If you're right, at least one of them...is involved.
That's a big if.
Who are they? Stay on them, will you. How can we find out...Wait. The glasses.
What glasses.
The drinks...Stay on them.
Follow that busboy.
Are you serious?
I feel like an idiot.
Just hold them close and stay still.
Which one?
The blond...GRUNER. A killer.
Killer!
Just don't show fear.
I don't know what's going on.
It lends you an air of mystery.
He recognises you, throw him off.
My coast is Maine, actually. We have a place in Bar Harbor...And a bar in Sutton Place.
Don't get too cute.
Joe, be careful!
...I've lost something. I must get it back.
They're all in it.
How do you know?
Voice stress analyzer.
Your data must be bad. Everyone can't be lying all the time.
Even Rene?
She's the toughest to read.
Maybe she's telling the truth.
Can't tell. Every time I try her, you look away. Or you make noises. Maybe you don't want to know.
Come on...look at her. Don't you know anything about women?... The data is skewed. We might as well go with instinct...
What is it, your charm?
This just won't work.
You're doing great with her.
Not her. You!
What is it?
You can't listen. You can't watch either.
It's embarrassing.
What if she says something important?
I'll be right here. I'll keep it in mind. I'll get a lot more from her without you butting in.
What am I supposed to do?
You got any books in there?
Oh come on.
You shut down your sensors.
Joe! It's 56 hours!
I mean it. You watch old tapes of the ballgame, I'll fill you in... later. I mean it.
What Happened?
I don't know!
What she say. What'd you get out of her?
Ahhh...works...Ryuji... travel...just business...She's.. Fine Arts, University of Tokyo..
Is that all?
Oh, you were right. They've all been here before... met just last week.
She's got the most beautiful...s
Shit! You're in love.
And on my time.
It's not your time. I get time off.
You get time off to sleep.
No. What do you hope? AL I hope. I just hope. That someday, you're real small, and you've got no time. And you got no one to help you. And you depend on me. And you know what I'll do?
No. What will you do.
I...I'll got to the movies. That's what I'll do!
You been had. We have.
It wasn't like that.
Some agent you are.
Why don't you get out of my face.
Bingo.
You found her.
Better. I found Ryuji.
That's good. It's not better. Where?
Osaka.
Osaka?
Fountainhead of HighTech.
Don't you think I stand out like this.
We are trying to stand out. Right near his address. Easier to get them to come to us, than to try and find them. ..now keep your eyes open, something might present itself.
I'm running in circles in the middle of some foreign country. I don't speak their language, they don't speak mine. I don't even know where I am. What's going to present itse........
What do I do?
Follow her.
On what?
Run, stupid!
Come on, she's getting away.
I can't keep up.
Beer. And cakes...cookies ..anything bad.
That's not funny.
Sapporo..
Just stay here and rest.
Where are you going?
Down to your heart. I'm gonna clean some fat out before you drop on me.
Wait a minute. Wait a minute. Al, you leave my heart alone...
`Joe. I'm here. You're Okay.
What do I do?
Relax. Let me do this.
Relax. Make your mind a blank.
It is a blank. This is no time for Zen.
What are you doing? Wait a minute. Lets think this through.
You think. That's what you're good at.
Yeah...You've fallen for her.
I told you, I have a feeling...
One of your instincts?
I know she's not with them. I know something else. What's bothering you isn't her.
Don't touch a thing.
Don't worry!
...drink it.
Too late.
What next!
Drink lots of water.
I can't...
You have to! Quickly!
...imagine a better grape for the region.
What are you doing?
Trying to analyze this stuff. Now...go to the medicine shelf and take  and .
Ow!
A hard left. A hard left.
Door to the right. Get up and run.
I can't see a thing.
Neither can they.
What?
Never mind, just say it.
JOE +++$+++
He was with Gruner!
You were with GRUNER!
I need a guide and you need a client...and $1000.
No. You can't trust her.
Hiroshima! She's going, with us? Are you out of your mind.
Probably.
I don't trust her.
Then why let her out of our sight? Besides, she's all we've got...
It's him.
Come on.
Plenty of circuits in a Walkman...
I've got an idea.
I was afraid of that.
You sure this will work?
Not sure at all.
Well at least talk it up, then. I feel like an idiot.
Just say the words. Just like I told you.
What was it? What'd I say?
You said 100,000 yen for the right Sony Walkman.
haka xuki.
haka xuki. What's that mean?
Cash.
Left...The one with the red dot.
Well...?
It's not the one...Wait... there's a label.
He hung us up dry.
While he makes the run.
Where?
It's in the watch. He lead us on that chase while Dieter brought the chip into Hong Kong.
And Dieter?
He must not know. GRUNER just made the switch back.
Then, why'd he lead us here.
He didn't. He left us that walkman chip to confuse us. Would have kept most people busy. We were too fast for him.
Do it.
I can't handle that thing.
Don't worry, I can.
Are you alright?
Just fine. I'll do the driving from now on.
Aim just in front of his face.
Aim what?
Holy...
...Shit! It's just money.
He aready made the deal..
The man we want has the PEM, and is across the border by now.
Dieter!
GRUNER switched the chip to him, not from him, then he led us away again...to Chiang Cho.
There's a lot you don't know.
And don't let her know, either.
This may hurt.
Well, don't let it. What are you doing?
Pretty advanced, isn't it?
Ought to be, they stole everything and reverseengineered it. Looks like all they need is the chip.
Do something.
What exactly?
I don't know.
What happened?
Losing power. The laser drained it.
Be quiet.
Where've you been?
Never mind that, where are we now.
We are in a dungeon. How do we get out?
Gimme a minute.
Looks like you can have all you want.
I can always flush you down the toilet.
Keep thinking.
I have been... I think you're right.
About what?
Dieter asked where I was. He expected me here. Maybe someone was assigned to bring me here.
Rene?
She works for them.
Now, you're too suspicious.
You were the one who was always suspicious of her!
I was wrong. She tried to help us get away.
No. She just stayed with us. Like she did all along.
She is beautiful.
You've changed your mind.
Not really. Truth is...I was ..jealous. Of you.
Thing is...I think I'm in love with her.
Oh no!
I know it's no good. I've no right to be jealous.
She's in love with you. Anyone can see that.
They can?
You're a lucky man.
Yeah, sure.
She's so lovely. It's all my fault...I was wrong.
You're lovely.
I don't know how we're gonna get out of this, but we will, somehow.
I want you to know how much I appreciate what you've done.
I want to thank you for what you've done.
Awwww...
I mean it! No one else would have helped. I take it all back, everything I've said about you.
Don't worry, I owe you a lot. I'm not gonna let us rot here. I'm gonna find us a way out.
I'll get us out of here.
Don't worry about me. You take this time for your own, you two.....
In a way, we're like brothers... I can't have her. I want you to.
That's nice.
What are you doing?
Sending what we know back to U.S.T. via satellite.
I get it!
You got it!
This is the first time anybody ever cried when I left.
They don't cry about you. They cry about the elephants leaving.
Figures...
They got no food to feed them. So they taking the elephants away to sell them.
Give me your hat...
What for?
I'm going to puke in it...
I don't appreciate being cooked like a french fry!
Willie, come on!
I like the service here.
Hey, he's not a waiter...
No, Wu Han's an old friend I brought along. So, the game's not over. Put the antidote on the table, Lao.
Look out, damn it, I need that antidote!
Who cares? Where's that diamond!
For crying out loud, a kid's driving the car?!
Relax, I've been giving him lessons.
Listen, we just met for crissake! I'm not that kind of girl!
Don't get your hopes up  where's the antidote?
You don't look very good.
Poison never agrees with me. Pull a right, Short Round, and head for the Wang Poo bridge!
What're we going to do?! Where're we going?!
The airport... No, look out, Short Round! Left, left!
I'll take the extra ticket. Where's this plane going anyway?
Siam.
Siam? But I'm not dressed for Siam...
So, what're you supposed to be, a lion tamer?
Since I was nice enough to let you tag along, why don't you give your mouth a rest? Okay, doll?
I'm freezing. What do you mean, tag along? From the minute you walked into that nightclub, you haven't been able to keep your eyes off me.
Oh yeah?
Are you crazy, a lift raft?! We're not sinking, we're crashing!
Get over here, damn it! Short Round, come on, grab onto me tight!
You all right?
No... I'm not cut out for the kind of life you lead. Oh no... I ripped my dress. Where are we anyway?
India...
Holy cow  India? How do you know we're in 
What'd he say?
He told me they knew I was coming here.
What do you mean  how?
The old man saw it in a dream.
Dream  nightmare is more like it.
He said that's whey they were at river  they were waiting for the plane to fall down.
God, I am starving, but I can't eat this...
That's more food than these people eat in a week. They're starving, too...
Took what?
It's a sacred stone in a shine that's supposed to protect a village.
And then they took their children.
Their children?
What'd he say now?
It was destined that I came here  and the future cannot be changed...
Hey, Willie  I think you better get out now.
Stark naked? You wish... If you're trying to seduce me, Dr. Jones, this is a very primitive approach.
Me seduce you? Honey, you're the one who took your clothes off. I just came over to remind you that you never know what else might be in the water.
Somehow I feel safer in here.
Indy! Help me!
Don't worry, I'm coming in! What is it?
A snake!
A what...?
A SNAKE!!
Hurry, help me out of here! What're you waiting for?!
Uh, listen  Willie  I got a better idea.
What?!
First of all  don't panic!
Don't let it pull you deeper!
It's pulling me deeper!
Don't let it curl around you!
It's curling around me! Damn it, stop talking and do something!
Listen, Willie. Do exactly what I tell you now.
What?!
Can you move your arm?
Just one arm!
Okay, I want you to lift your hand  and pet the snake.
PET IT??!!
Yes, stroke it right along the maxillary and precaudal vertebrae.
THE WHAT?!
Pet it on the head! Go on, pet it!
Oh  my  god  it's going to crush me!
Keep stroking it!
What's happening?
It's starting to let go!
That's good  you're doing fine.
Thanks for nothing! I hate snakes!
I know the feeling...
Where'd you find your little bodyguard?
I met Short Round when he tried to pick my pocket.
Shorty's family was killed when they bombed Shanghai. He was living on the streets.
He'll be okay. He's a good kid.
By the way, how'd you end up in Shanghai?
Well, when my nightclub career was run over by the Depression, some pinhead convinced me that "a girl could go places in the Orient..." So, look where I got.
What about the future?
Oh, that's easy  I'm going to latch onto a goodlooking, incredibly rich prince.
I'd like to find one of those myself.
Oh really?
Yeah, but he's got to be dead and buried for a couple of thousand years. Fortune and glory...
Is that what you're hoping to find at this palace, Dr. Jones?
Maybe...
The drawing shows a priest named Sankara who lived centuries ago.
What does the writing say?
It's Sanskrit. It tells the story of Sankara climbing Mt. Kalisa where he met the Hindu god Shiva.
That's Shiva? What's he giving the Priest?
Legend says he told Sankara to go forth and combat evil. To do that he gave him five sacred stones that had magical powers.
You mean magical like the rock that was stolen from that village?
I think you should sleep closer. I meant for safety.
I'd be safer sleeping with that snake.
Couldn't keep away, huh?
Just try and control yourself.
He's afraid of something.
He said he couldn't take us any farther. He has to go sell the elephants.
You mean we have to walk the rest of the way?
Any more complaints?
Yeah, I wish you'd thought of this sooner...
I've always had a weakness for folk dancing.
She might get away with that act here, but she'd never make it in a real nightclub.
That's the Maharajah  that kid?!
Maybe he likes older women.
Cheer up, you lost your prince, but dinner's on the way.
I've never been so hungry in my life...
Not leftovers?
No  real food.
You're nice. Listen, I'm taking applications  how'd you like to be my palace slave?
Wearing your jewels to bed, princess?
Yeah  and nothing else. That shock you?
I'm a scientist. I like doing research on certain "nocturnal activities" 
Primitive sexual practices?
You're talking to an authority in that area.
You're dying to come into my room, aren't you?
You want me so bad, why don't you invite me?
Too proud to admit you're crazy about me, Dr. Jones?
I think you're too used to getting you own way, Willie...
We'll see who gives in first  I'll leave my door open.
Don't catch cold.
Dr. Jones?
Five minutes... you'll be back over here in five minutes...
You're dreaming, Willie. You want to make it real, just knock on my door.
No  don't you see  crawling 
What  the bug?
Get  the  bug  off!
Gee, I wouldn't want to touch an ugly critter like that!
Oh no  oh no!!
You know, Willie, I'll bet he's mad because they were eating his friends for dinner.
Please  oh please, I'm going to die! Get it off!
What?!
Willie, come here! Hurry up, we're in trouble!!
WILLIE?!
I'm coming, what's the rush?! Ohh! What's that?! There's stuff all over the floor! I can't see a thing!
There's bugs! Bugs all over! Help! Help me!
Willie, open the door! GET US OUT OF HERE!
GET US OUT! Willie, shut up and listen! There's got to be a fulcrum release! Look around!
A what?!
A fulcrum release lever!
I can't find any lever! Help me Indy!
There's a hole! I found a square hole!
That's it  the release lever  look inside!
I am  it looks horrible!
Oh God, it's soft  it's moving!
Willie!
What is it...?
It's a Thuggee ceremony. They're worshipping Kali, the goddess of Death and Destruction.
Oh my God! He ripped out his  he killed him!
No... the heart's still beating!
Let's go! Let's get out of here!
Quiet!
Wait  what're you doing?
I'm going down.
Down? Down there?! Are you crazy!
I'm not leaving without those stones.
You're gonna get killed chasing after your damn fortune and glory!
Maybe... someday. Not today.
It's okay. You're all right now.
They think I'm insane. Tell them I'm not, Indy. Please  help me ...
What?
You've got to go to sleep now.
I want to go home...
I don't blame you... this hasn't been what you'd call a fun vacation...
Indy? Did you talk to them?
Yes.
So now they believe me.
Yes, they believe you.
I was scared to death last night when I thought they were going to kill you.
No... they won't kill me.
You know you've been nothing but trouble since I hooked up with you  but I have to admit I'd miss you if I lost you...
What're we going to do?!
There's got to be another way out.
I can't!
Go!
Let her go! Our only chance is outrunning them!
What above the curves?!
Anymore ideas...?
Yeah  this time you're gonna help!
I guess Mola Ram got what he wanted.
Not quite.
The last Sankara Stone.
And they don't even know what it really is.
Well, you didn't get your prince, and there goes your diamond.
You didn't do so well yourself. Finding that stone could've gotten you all the fortune and glory you were talking about.
It's still a long way to Delhi. Who knows what might happen.
On the way to Delhi, you will stop at Pankot.
Pankot isn't on the way to Delhi.
You will go to palace there.
Hasn't the Pankot palace been deserted since the Mutiny of 1857?
No. Now there is new Maharajah  and palace is powerful again.
It is Pankot Palace that kills my village.
I don't understand. What's happened here?
The evil starts in Pankot. Then like monsoon, it moves darkness over all country.
What evil?
They came from Palace and took sivalinga from out village.
It is why Krishna brought you here.
Nobody brought us here. Our plane crashed. We were shot down by 
No. We pray to Krishna to help us find the stone. It was Krishna who made you fall from sky  so you can got to Pankot Palace. To find sivalinga  and bring back to us.
Was the stone very smooth? It was probably brought here from a sacred river.
Long ago  before my father's father.
And it had three lines painted across it? The lines represent the three levels of the universe. I've seen stones like the one you lost.
But why would the Maharajah take this sacred stone?
They say we must pray to their evil god. We say we will not.
You will find them when you find sivlalinga.
I'm sorry, I don't know how I can help you here.
You were caught trying to steal the Sankara Stones.
Nobody's perfect. The way I heard it, you stole one of them from a small village.
There were five stones in the beginning. Over the centuries they were dispersed by wars, sold off by thieves like you...
Two are still missing.
No. They are here  somewhere. A century ago when the British raided this temple and butchered my people, a loyal priest hid the last two stones down here in the catacombs.
That's what you've got these children  these slaves digging for?
They dig for the gems to support our cause. They also search for the last two stones. Soon we will have all five Sankara Stones and the Thuggees will be all powerful!
Nobody can say you don't have a vivid imagination.
You do not believe me? You will, Dr. Jones. You will become a true believer.
That's far enough!
You are in no position to give orders, Dr. Jones.
Give me the stones!
Mola Ram  you're about to meet Kali  in Hell!
No, the stones are mine!
You're betrayed Shiva.
Wow! Holy smoke! Crash landing!
Step on it, Short Round!
Okeydoke, Indy! Hold onto your potatoes!
You got the tickets, Short Round?
Sure, Indy  three tickets! You, me and Wu Han 
Indy?
Okay, Shorty.
Indy, they make our plane crash? To get you here?
It's just superstition, Shorty. Like a ghost story.
I ride with you, Indy?
Nope, you got a little surprise over there, Shorty.
Indy, look!
That's it. Pankot Palace.
What you look at, Indy?
Just a statue.
That little Maharajah think he big stuff.
You don't like him do you?
Next time I flatten him! Did you see his eyes?
No.
Indy, they glow like fire and get real crazy! Then he talk in this real scary voice!
He was afraid of you. He knows a tough guy when he sees one.
Yeah, that's what happened...
Get to sleep Indy  I stay up and keep eye on things...
Okay, Shorty... see you in the morning... I'm going to have a little  word with Willie.
What does it mean, Indy?
"Follow in the footsteps of Shiva. Do not betray his truth."
The village knew their rock was magic  but they didn't know it was one of the lost Sankara Stones...
Why they glow like that?
Legend says that when the stones are brought together the diamonds inside of them will glow.
This is Nainsukh  from the village. They bring him here to dig in the mines.
Why?
Come one, what's wrong?
Behind you!
Slow on the curves or we'll fly off the tracks!
Read you loud and clear, Indy!
Let up on the brake!
What?
Dr. Jones.
Lao She.
Nee chin lie how ma?
You never told me you spoke my language, Dr. Jones.
I don't like to show off.
So, it is true, Dr. Jones? You found Nurhachi?
Sure, I found him. Then last night I had a little trouble. Somebody tried to slit my throat.
You have insulted my son.
Next time I'll cut off more than his finger.
Dr. Jones  I want Nurhachi.
What's that?
A bonus, Dr. Jones. That is poison. You just drank the rest of it.
Now what about the antidote, Lao.
At last I have the ashes of my sacred ancestor!
I would say you look rather lost. But then I cannot imagine where in the world the three of you would look at home...
Lost? No, we're not lost. We're on our way to Delhi. This is Miss Scott  and Mr. Round. My name's Indiana Jones.
Dr. Jones? The eminent archaeologist?
We'd appreciate it if the Maharajah would let us stay tonight. We'll be on out way in the morning.
I am only his humble servant, but the Maharajah usually listens to my advice.
I had a question, Mr. Prime Minister. I was examining some of the Maharajah's artifacts.
A very fine collection of very old pieces, don't you think?
Yes, very fine. But not all of the pieces look old. Some were carved recently and look like images used by the Thuggees to worship the goddess Kali.
I suppose stories of the Thuggees die hard.
There are no stories anymore.
Well, I don't know... we came here from a small village and the peasants there told us that the Pankot Palace was growing powerful again  because of some ancient evil.
Their stories are just fear and folklore.
Maybe... but how do you explain The Thuggee shrine I saw right below the palace?
You know the villagers also claimed that this palace stole something from them.
Dr. Jones, in our country a guest does not usually insult his host.
Sorry, I thought we were just talking about folklore.
There, you see, Captain. A rock!
When they lost this rock their fields and animals died. They also said their children were taken from them.
I think that's enough of this nonsense, Dr. Jones...
I was dubious myself at first. Then something connected  the village's rock and the old legend of the Sankara Stones...
Dr. Jones, we are all vulnerable to vicious rumors. I seem to remember that in Honduras you were accused of being a grave robber rather than a scientist.
The newspapers exaggerated the incident.
And didn't the Sultan of Madagascar threaten to cut your head off if you ever returned to his country?
That was a misunderstanding.
Exactly what we have here, Dr. Jones.
Mola Ram is telling the faithful of out victory. He says the British have left the palace, which proves Kali Ma's new power.
Yes, I understand.
You understand what he tells us?
Kali Ma protects us now and for ever, and we must pledge our devotion by worshipping her with an offering of flesh and blood!
Hard to believe, isn't it...?
I remember first hearing your name when I was studying at Oxford. I am Chattar Lal, Prime Minister for His Highness the Maharajah of Pankot.
The plane crash and your journey here sound  most incredible.
You should have been there...
He's not exactly what we call "a spring chicken".
No, no, that is Uhmed Singh, the present Maharajah's late father.
Oh  good. And maybe the present Maharajah is a little younger? And thinner?
They will escort you to your rooms now. You will be provided with fresh clothes. Tonight you will be dining with His Highness.
Dinner? And with a prince?! My luck is changing. But look at me  my god, I've to get ready!
Listen, Mr. Lal, what do you call the Maharajah's wife?
His Highness has not yet taken a wife.
No? Well, I guess he just hasn't met the right woman...
Miss Scott, you're not making any sense.
I'm afraid they'll kill them! We saw horrible things down there  they had a human sacrifice and they ripped a man's heart out!
I sense the fumes of opium in all this. Perhaps Miss Scott picked up the habit in Shanghai.
What're you talking about  I'm not a dope fiend! I saw it! I'll show you!
I believe we're being called to dinner.
Finally!
Jones isn't in his room. Miss Scott  my troops are leaving at dawn if you want us to escort you to Delhi 
No  you can't go! Something awful's happened. They've got Short Round and I think Indy's been 
What?
We found a tunnel that leads to a temple below the palace! Please, come with me, I'll show you!
Who?
It's some kind of cult! And they've got the sacred stones that Indy was searching for.
Interested in local curios?
No. But I am interested in the occult. And this is a kryta.
Charming.
It's like the voodoo dolls of West Africa. The kryta represents your enemy  and gives you complete power over him.
Thank God all that mumbo jumbo rubbish is disappearing.
You think so?
Of course. Admittedly, it's taken time. Britain's controlled India for almost two hundred years now.
You're hanging on better here than you did in America.
This is a different situation, Dr. Jones. These people are like children. We have to lead them slowly into the twentieth century.
The Prime Minister doesn't seem that naive.
No, he's a very shrewd old boy. Power behind the throne and all that. He actually runs this whole province.
I'm sure it's nothing. Just rumors. What was it they claimed was stolen?
Something magical. A sacred rock.
Rather bizarre menu, wouldn't you say?
Even if they were trying to scare us away, a devout Hindu would never touch meat. Makes you wonder what these people are...
I've spent by life crawling around in caves and tunnels  I shouldn't have let somebody like Willie go in there with me.
Miss Scott panicked?
When she saw the insects she passed out cold. I carried her back to her room. She was sleeping when I re entered the tunnel to look around.
Then she must have run out of the room and you found her.
Did you discover anything in that tunnel, Dr. Jones?
Captain Blumburtt and his troops are here to check up on the "natives".
Just a routine inspection tour.
The British worry so about their Empire  it makes us feel like well caredfor children.
Dr. Jones, you know very well that the Thuggee cult has been dead for nearly a century.
Of course. The Thuggees were an obscenity that worshipped Kali with human sacrifices. The British Army wiped them out about the time of the Mutiny of 1857.
Well, Mr. Prime Minister, my report will duly note that we found nothing unusual here in Pankot.
I'm sure that will please the Maharajah, Captain.
As I said before, we'd be happy to escort you to Delhi.
Why are you trying to kill us?
Because you're looking for the Holy Grail.
My father was looking for the Holy Grail. Did you kill him too?
No.
Where is he? Talk  or you're dead. Damn it, tell me! Tell me!
If you don't let go, Doctor Jones, we'll both die.
Then we'll die.
My soul is prepared. How's yours?
This is your last chance.
No, Doctor Jones. It's yours!
All right! Where's my father
If you let me go, I will tell you where he is.
Who are you?
My name is Kazim.
And why were you trying to kill me?
The secret of the Grail has been safe for a thousand years. And for all that time the Brotherhood of the Cruciform Sword has been prepared to do anything to keep it safe.
Ask yourself, why do you seek the Cup of Christ? Is it for His glory, or for yours?
I didn't come for the Cup of Christ. I came to find my father.
In that case, God be with you in your quest. Your father is being held in the Castle of Brunwald on the AustrianGerman border.
Get that camel out of the way!
What happened to Marcus, Sallah?
Ah, they set out across the desert this afternoon. I believe they took Mister Brody with them.
That car belonged to my brotherin law.
Come on  come on!
I'm going after those horses.
I'll take the camels.
I don't need camels.
But, Indy 
No camels!
Sallah, I said no camels! That's five camels. Can't you Count?
Compensation for my brotherinlaw's car. Indy, your father and Brody 
Where's my father?
They have them. In the belly of that steel beast.
I knew you'd come, but my strength has left me.
Who are you?
The last of three brothers who swore an oath to find the Grail and to guard it.
That was seven hundred years ago.
A long time to wait.
You're strangely dressed... for a knight.
I'm not exactly... a knight. What do you mean?
I was chosen because I was the bravest and the most worthy. The honor was mine until another came to challenge me to single combat. I pass it to you who vanquished me.
Dad!
Out!
It's important!
Then wait  count to twenty.
No, Dad. You listen to me 
Junior!
It is you Junior!
Don't call me that, please.
But what are you doing here?
I came to get you! What do you think?
Oh, it breaks the heart.
And the head. You hit me, Dad!
I'll never forgive myself 
Don't worry  I'm fine.
Thank God!
No! Dad, get your stuff. We've got to get out of here.
Well, I am sorry about your head, though. But I thought you were one of them.
Dad, they come in through the doors.
Good point.
Humpf  so I was wrong this time. But by God, I wasn't wrong when I mailed you my Diary. You obviously got it.
I got it and I used it. We found the entrance to the catacombs.
Through the library?
Right.
I knew it. And the tomb of Sir Richard?
Found it.
He was actually there? You saw him?
Well, what was left of him.
And his shield... the inscription on Sir Richard's shield...?
Alexandretta. It's a great moment in Henry's life. He turns aside, lost to himself for a moment, then turns to Indy with joy.
Alexandretta... of course... on the pilgrim trail from the Eastern Empire. Oh, Junior...
...you did it.
No, Dad. You did. Forty years.
If only I could have been with you.
There were rats, Dad.
Rats?
Yeah, big ones. What do the Nazis want with you Dad?
They want my diary.
Yeah?
You didn't, did you? You didn't bring it, did you?
Well, uh...
You did!!
Look, can we discuss this later?
I should have mailed it to the Marx Brothers.
Will you take it easy!
Take it easy?! Why do you think I sent it home in the first place? So it wouldn't fall into their hands!!
I came here to save you.
Oh yeah? And who's gonna come to save you, Junior??
No! Don't Shoot!
Don't worry. He won't.
She ransacked her own room and I fell for it. How did you know she was a Nazi?
Umh?
How did you she was a Nazi?
She talks in her sleep.
Ooooh... I like the Austrian way better.
So did I.
Let's try and get these ropes loose. We've got to get to Marcus before the Nazis do!
You said he had two days' start. That he would blend in. Disappear!
Are you kidding?  I made that up! You know Marcus  he got lost once in his own museum!
What am I looking for?
My lucky charm.
Feels like a cigarette lighter.
Try and burn through the ropes.
I ought to tell you something.
Don't get sentimental now Dad  save it 'til we get out of here.
The floor's on fire! See?!
What???
And the chair.
All right, move! Move! Rock your Chair. Do what I do.
Dad!
What?
Dad!
What?
Dad!
What?
Head for the fireplace!
Oh.
This is intolerable!
I'm out, Dad!
Dad!
...the solution presents itself.
Come on, Dad. Come on!
What about the boat? We're not going on the boat?
Stop!
What?
Stop! Stop!
You're going the wrong Way! We have to get to Berlin!
Brody's this way.
My Diary's in Berlin.
You don't need the Diary, Dad. Marcus has the map.
There is more in the Diary than just the map.
All right Dad  tell me.
Well, he who finds the Grail must face the final challenge.
What final challenge?
Three devices of such lethal cunning.
Booby traps?
Oh, yes. But I found the clues that will safely take us through, in the Chronicles of St. Anselm.
But what are they? Can't you remember?
I wrote them down in my Diary so that I wouldn't have to remember.
Half the German Army's on our tail and you want me to go to Berlin? Into the lion's den?
Yes! The only thing that matters is the Grail.
What about Marcus?
Marcus would agree with me.
Two selfless martyrs. Jesus Christ!
That's for blasphemy. The quest for the Grail is not archaeology. It's a race against evil. If it is captured by the Nazis, the armies of darkness will march all over the face of the earth. Do you understand me?
This is an obsession Dad. I never understood it. Never. Neither did Mom.
Oh yes, she did. Only too well. Unfortunately she kept her illness from me until all I could do was mourn her.
What did you get?
I don't know. The first available flight out of Germany.
Good.
When we're airborne, with Germany behind us, then I'll share that sentiment.
Relax.
You know, sharing your adventures is an interesting experience.
That's not all we shared. It's disgraceful. You're old enough to be her fa... er, her grandfather!
Well, I'm as human as the next man.
I was the next man.
Ships that pass in the night...
Do you remember the last time we had a quiet drink? I had a milk shake.
Hmmm... What did we talk about?
We didn't talk. We never talked.
And do I detect a rebuke?
A regret. It was just the two of us, Dad. It was a lonely way to grow up. For you, too. If you had been an ordinary, average father like the other guys' dads, you'd have understood that.
Actually, I was a wonderful father.
When?
Did I ever tell you to eat up? Go to bed? Wash your ears? Do your homework? No. I respected your privacy and I taught you selfreliance.
What you taught me was that I was less important to you than people who had been dead for five hundred years in another country. And I learned it so well that we've hardly spoken for twenty years.
You left just when you were becoming interesting.
Dad, how can you?
Very well. I'm here now.
Well... I can't think of anything.
Then what are you complaining about? Look, we have work to do. When we get to Alexandretta we will face three challenges. "First, the breath of God. Only the penitent man will pass. Second, the Word of God, only in the footsteps of God will he proceed. Third, the Path of God, only in the leap from the lion's head will he prove his worth."
What does that mean?
I don't know. We'll find out.
I didn't know you could fly a plane.
Fly... yes. Land... no.
Dad  eleven o'clock!!
What happens at eleven o'clock?
Dad, are we hit?!
More or less. Son, I'm sorry. They got us.
Nice landing.
Thanks.
Those people are trying to kill us!
I know, Dad!
It's a new experience for me.
It happens to me all the time.
This is intolerable!
This could be close.
What do you think you're doing?! Get down!
Dad, we're well out of range.
Now, who are all these people?
Who cares? As long as they're keeping Donovan busy. Dad, you stay here while Sallah and I organize some transportation.
Dad?
You call this archaeology?
Get out of there, Dad!
Dad?!
Junior...
"Only the penitent man will pass. Only the penitent man will pass."
The penitent man will pass. The penitent... the penitent. The penitent man...
The penitent man. The penitent...
The penitent man is humble before God.
Penitent. Penitent...
The penitent man is humble...
But in the Latin alphabet, "Jehovah" begins with an "I".
"J".
Junior, give me your other hand! I can't hold on!!
I can get it  I can almost reach it, Dad.
Elsa never really believed in the Grail. She thought she'd found a prize.
What did you find, Dad?
Me?... Illumination.
What did you find, Junior?
Junior?! Dad...
I like Indiana.
We named the dog Indiana.
Ready?
Ready.
Uhhuh.
After you, Junior.
Yes, sir! Haaa!
Doctor Jones?
Yes?
I knew it was you 
And my mother's ears. But the rest belongs to you.
Looks like the best parts have already been spoken for.
The last time I saw your father we were in the library. He was very close to tracking down the Knight's Tomb. I've never seen him so excited. He was as giddy as a schoolboy.
Who? Attila the Professor? He was never giddy, even when he was a schoolboy!
Fraulein  will you permit me?
I usually don't.
I usually don't either.
In that case, I permit you.
It would make me very happy.
But I'm already sad  by tomorrow it will have faded.
Tomorrow I'll steal you another.
My dad sent me this Diary for a reason. Until we find out why, I suggest we keep it to ourselves.
Find something?
Bingo.
You don't disappoint, Doctor Jones. You're a great deal like your father.
Except he's lost, and I'm not.
Lower me down.
Pagan symbols. Fourth or Fifth Century.
Right. Six hundred years before the Crusades.
The Christians would have dug their own passages and burial chambers centuries later.
The Ark of the Covenant.
Are you sure?
Pretty sure.
It must be one of these...
Look at the artistry of these carvings and the scrollwork.
What's that?
It's a rubbing Dad made of the Grail Tablet.
Wouldn't it be wonderful if he were here now to see this?
He never would have made it past the rats! He hates rats! He's scared to death of them!
Don't wander off.
What?
I said go around!
You said go between them!
I said don't go between them!
My room!
Mine, too.
What were they looking for?
This.
The Grail Diary.
Uhhuh.
You had it? You didn't trust me!
At least I let you tag along.
Oh, yes. Give them a flower and they'll follow you anywhere.
Knock it off. You're not mad.
No?
No. You like the way I do things.
It's lucky I don't do things the same way. You'd still be standing at the Venice pier.
What do you know about this place?
I know the Brunwalds are famous art collectors.
What are you going to do?
Don't know. Think of something.
This one. I think he's in here.
How do you know?
This book contained a map  a map with no names  precise directions from the unknown city to the secret Canyon of the Crescent Moon.
So it did.
How did you get here?
Where is it? I want it.
You came back for the book? Why?
My father didn't want it incinerated.
Is that what you think of me? I believe in the Grail, not the Swastika.
Yet you stood up to be counted with the enemy of everything the Grail stands for  who gives a damn what you think?
You do.
All I have to do is squeeze.
All I have to do is scream.
I never expected to see you again.
I'm like a bad penny. I always turn up.
Elsa! Elsa, don't move!
It's ours, Indy. Yours and mine.
Elsa, don't cross the Seal. The Knight warned us not to take the Grail from here.
Elsa. Elsa don't. Elsa. Elsa. Give me your other hand, honey. I can't hold you.
I can reach it. I can reach it...
My name is Donovan. Walter Donovan.
I know who you are Mr. Donovan. Your contributions to the museum over the years have been extremely generous. Some of the pieces in your collection here are very impressive.
Well, like yourself, Doctor Jones, I have a passion for antiquities. Have a look over here. This might interest you.
Well, it's sandstone. Christian symbol. Early Latin text. MidTwelfth Century, I should think.
That was our assessment as well.
Where did this come from?
My engineers unearthed it in the mountain region north of Ankara while excavating for copper. Can you translate the inscription?
"Where the cup that holds the blood of Jesus Christ resides forever."
The Holy Grail, Doctor Jones. The chalice used by Christ during the Last Supper. The cup that caught His blood at the Crucifixion and was entrusted to Joseph of Arimathaea.
The Arthur Legend. I've heard this bedtime story before.
Eternal life, Doctor Jones! The gift of youth to whoever drinks from the Grail. Oh, now that's a bedtime story I'd like to wake up to!
An old man's dream.
Every man's dream. Including your father's, I believe.
Hard to resist, isn't it? The Holy Grail's final resting place described in detail!
What good is it? This Grail Tablet speaks of deserts and mountains and canyons. Pretty vague. Where do you start looking? Maybe if the Tablet were intact, you'd have something to go on. But the entire top portion is missing.
Just the same, an attempt to recover the Grail is currently underway.
Let me tell you another "bedtime story," Doctor Jones. After the Grail was entrusted to Joseph of Arimathaea, it disappeared and was lost for a thousand years before it was found again by three Knights of the First Crusade. Three brothers, to be exact.
I've heard this one as well. Two of these brothers walked out of the desert one hundred and fifty years after having found the Grail and began the long journey back to France. But only one of them made it. And before dying of extreme old age, he supposedly imparted his tale to a  to a Franciscan friar, I think.
Not "supposedly," Doctor Jones.
This is the manuscript in which the friar chronicled the Knight's story... it doesn't reveal on location of the Grail, I'm afraid... but the Knight promised that two "markers" that had been left behind would. This Tablet is one of those "markers." It proves the Knight's story is true. But as you pointed out  it's incomplete. Now, the second "marker" is entombed with the Knight's dead brother. Our project leader believes that tomb to be located within the city of Venice, Italy. As you can now see, Doctor Jones, we're about to complete a great quest that began almost two thousand years ago. We're only one step away.
That's usually when the ground falls out from underneath your feet.
You could be more right than you know.
Yes?
We've hit a snag. Our project leader has vanished. Along with all his research. Uh, we received a cable from his colleague, Doctor Schneider, who has no idea of his whereabouts or what's become of him. I want you to pick up the trail where he left off. Find the man and you will find the Grail.
You've got the wrong Jones, Mister Donovan. Why don't you try my father?
We already have. Your father is the man who's disappeared.
DONOVAN!
Didn't I warn you not to trust anybody, Doctor Jones?
Impossible? What do you say, Jones? Ready to go down in history?
As what? A Nazi stooge like you?
Nazis?!  Is that the limit of your vision?! The Nazis want to write themselves into the Grail legend and take on the world. Well, they're welcome. But I want the Grail itself. The cup that gives everlasting life. Hitler can have the world, but he can't take it with him. I'm going to be drinking my own health when he's gone the way of the Dodo. The Grail is mine, and you're going to get it for me.
Shooting me won't get you anywhere.
You know something, Doctor Jones? You're absolutely right.
I'm through!
We're through!
Are you expected?
Don't take that tone with me, my good man. Now buttle off and tell Baron Brunwald that Lord Clarence MacDonald and his lovely assistant are here to view the tapestries.
Tapestries?
Dear me, the man is dense. This is a castle, isn't it? There are tapestries?
This is a castle. And we have many tapestries. But if you're a Scottish lord, then I am Mickey Mouse.
How dare he?!
Tell me, what's going to happen when we get to Venice?
Don't worry. Doctor Schneider will be there to meet you.
Schneider?
I maintain an apartment in Venice, at your disposal.
Oh, well. That's good. Thank you.
Care to wet your whistle, Marcus?
I'd rather spit in your face. But as I haven't got any spit...
Well, Marcus, we are on the brink of the recovery of the greatest artifact in the history of mankind.
You're meddling with powers you cannot possibly comprehend.
Marcus!
Arghhh! Oh!
Henry! What are you doing here?!
It's a rescue, old boy. Come on.
Henry, the pen 
What?
But don't you see? The pen is mightier than the sword.
Look what you did!
It's war.
The Word of God...
No, Henry. Try not to talk.
The Name of God...
Indy! Henry! Follow met I know the way! Haaa!
Got lost in his own museum, huh?
Marcus! I did it!
You've got it!
You know how long I've been looking for that?!
All your life.
All my life!
Well done, Indy. Very well done, indeed. This will find a place of honor in our Spanish collection.
Your treat.
Yes. My treat.
What has the old fool got himself into now?
I don't know. But whatever it is, he's in over his head!
Dad?
It's today's mail. And it's been opened.
Venice, Italy!
What is it?
It's Dad's Grail Diary. Every clue he ever followed. Every discovery he made. A complete record of his search for the Holy Grail. This is his whole life. Why would he have sent this to me?
I don't know. But someone must want it pretty badly.
Do you believe, Marcus?
Do you believe the Grail actually exists?
The search for the Cup of Christ is the search for the divine in all of us.
But if you want facts, Indy, I have none to give you. At my age, I'm prepared to take a few things on faith.
Call Donovan, Marcus. Tell him I'll take that ticket to Venice now.
I'll tell him we'll take two.
Ah, Venice...
Yes. Uh, how will we recognize this Doctor Schneider when we see him?
I don't know. Maybe he'll know us.
That doesn't look much like a library.
It looks like a converted church.
Marcus  I've seen this window before.
Where?
Look, Indy. The Roman numerals!
Dad was onto something here!
Well, now we know the source of the numbers, but we still don't know what they mean.
How's the head?
It's better, now I've seen this. It's the name of a city. "Alexandretta?" Hmmm...
The present city of Iskenderun is built on its ruins. Marcus  you remember what the Grail Tablet said. "Across the desert and through the mountain to the Canyon of the Crescent Moon." But where exactly?
Your father would know. Your father did know. Look. He made a map.
Now, he knew there was a city with an oasis due east. Here. He knew the course turned south through the desert to a river, and the river led into the mountains. Here. Straight to the canyon. He knew everything except where to begin, the name of the city.
Alexandretta. Now we know.
Yes. Now we know.
Marcus, get hold of Sallah. Tell him to meet you in Iskenderun.
What about you?
I'm going after Dad.
Indy... Indy, you must hurry!! Come quickly!
It's... a leap of faith. Oh, God.
Oh, Sallah! What a relief!
Marcus Brody, sir. And where is Indy?
Oh, he's in Austria. A slight detour.
You are on your own?
Yes, but don't panic. Everything's under control. Have you... have you arranged our supplies?
Oh, yes, of course. But where are we going?
Oh, this map will show you. It was drawn by, uh...
Oh, what?... your servant, sir.
And I am his.
My reputation precedes me.
There is no museum in Iskenderun.
Yes.
Papers, sir. Got it here.
Yes.
Egyptian Mail. Morning edition. Run!
Did you say...? Uh, uh...
May we go home now, please?
The dog!? You are named after the dog...
Why did you people come here?
Air... water... your "sun."
Where do your people come from? Where is your home?
Here... now.
And before here?
Many worlds...
Can we negotiate a truce? Is there room for coexistance? Can there be peace between us?
Peace? No peace.
What do you want us to do?
Die.
Mr. President, a real pleasure. They don't let us out much, you know.
Yes.
Well, I guess you'd like to see the big tamale? Follow me.
See, we can't duplicate their type of power so we've never been able to experiment. But since these guys started showing up, all the gizmos inside turned on. The last twenty four hours have been really exciting!
People are dying out there. I don't think "exciting" is the word I'd choose to describe it!
What can you tell us about the enemy we're facing?
Not all too dissimilar to us. Breathes oxygen, comparable tolerances to heat, cold... probably why they're interested in our planet. Hey, you wanna see them?
Can they be killed?
These three died in the crash. Their bodies are as frail as our own. You just have to get past their technology, which is, I'm sorry to say, far more advanced.
I'm not leaving.
We must maintain a working government in a time of crisis...
I want the Vice President, Secretary of Defense, the whole Cabinet and the Joint Chiefs taken to a secured location. I'm staying here. I am not going to add to a public hysteria that could cost lives.
But, Mr. President...
So far these things have not become hostile. For the moment let's assume they won't. Connie, let's issue statements advising people not to panic, to stay home and take cover.
What the hell's going on?
We're leaving.
I spoke with the Joint Chief when they arrived at NORAD. They agree, we must launch a counter offensive with a full nuclear strike. Hit 'em with everything we've got.
Above American soil?
If we don't strike soon, there may not be much of an America left to defend.
Why the hell wasn't I told about this place?
Two words, Mr. President. Plausible deniability.
Mr. President?
Deploy.
Call them back.
The other bombers might have more luck. We shouldn't just give up...
I said call them back.
Just what the hell do you think you're doing?
I'm bringing home the bacon. Earning my keep. And doing a fine job if I do say so myself.
It's the wrong field, you idiot! Lucas' farm is on the other side of town.
You sure?
Damn it, he was doing you a favor. You know how hard it is to find someone who doesn't think you're completely crazy? What are we supposed to do now? Huh? Where are we supposed to go now?
They let you out?
Just what the hell do you think you're doing?
We're leaving, don't try and stop us.
You're not going anywhere. You hear me? I'm still your father.
Troy's still my son no matter how you feel about me.
For once in your life think about what's best for Troy. Who has to beg for money to buy him medicine when you screw up? Who?
I couldn't find anything. Everyone is packing up, they're leaving. Word is a space ship is heading this way.
We should leave too.
There's a group heading south, they said there's a hospital just a couple hours away. I think we should follow them.
How' he doing?
Just fell asleep. He's gonna be just fine. Join me in a little celebration?
Stop it.
It's all fuzzy.
You're gonna break it. Just leave it alone. Here, take your medicine.
I don't need it.
Just take it, dick head. Alicia! Make sure he takes his medicine.
He's got that SEGA Saturn CD, 64 bit, right?
Yeah. What would you think if we went there to live for a while?
That'd be cool!
But I gave you some this morning.
I didn't take it. I thought I didn't need it anymore.
I don't believe it. They make you learn how to fly everything from an Apache to a Harrier and still they turn you down? What else do they want you to learn?
How to kiss ass.
Jasmine has this thing for dolphins. I had them make it...
I thought you said you were doing to break it off.
That is an affirmative. I have victory dance. Mmmmmmm.
Don't get premature on me, Jimmy. We don't light up 'til the Fat Lady sings.
I hear you.
I shouldn't have left her.
Don't worry, big guy. I'm sure she got out of here before it happened.
Damn it!
I didn't even see them fire!
Command, Eagle One. Switching to "sidewinders." We're moving in.
Jimmy, kick it! They're gaining.
We're already over Mach 2!
So push it!
Stevie... I can't...
Jimmy, stay with me.
Your son.
He's my angel.
Was his father stationed here?
He wasn't his father. I was kinda hoping he'd want the job, though.
So, what do you do for a living?
I'm a dancer.
Really? Ballet?
No. Exotic.
Oh. Sorry.
Don't be. I'm not. It's good money. 'Side, he's worth it.
And when the dancing's over? What about your future?
Funny, it used to scare me when I thought about the future. Guess it doesn't really matter anymore.
Dylan, come here. I want you to meet the First Lady.
I thought you didn't recognize me.
Didn't want to say anything. I voted for the other guy.
He's trying to impress you.
He's doing a good job.
You can't go. Call them back.
Baby, you know how it is. I have to report to El Toro right away.
You said you were on leave for the Fourth.
They cancelled it. Why are you acting like this?
Wait. I have to tell you something.
What?
Be careful.
Look, after your shift tonight, why don't you grab Dylan and come stay with me on base.
Really? You don't mind?
Naw. I'll just tell my other girlfriends they can't come over tonight.
You know, you're not as charming as you think you are.
Yes, I am.
Dickweed!
Buttmunch.
You're late.
You know how I like to make a big entrance.
You're late.
You know me...
I know, you like to make a big entrance.
Before we do this, I want you to know I'm sorry.
Sorry for what?
I should have done this a long long time ago.
You scared the hell out of me.
Yeah, but what an entrance!
Dickweed.
Buttmunch.
A meteor?
No Sir. Definitely not.
How do you know?
Well, er... it's slowing down.
It's doing what?
It's... slowing down, Sir.
Get on the horn with Atlantic Command. Let's upgrade the situation to DEFCON 3.
That's not your call to make, Mr. Nimziki.
Organize a military escort to Crystal Mountain.
Sir, I strongly recommend we move you to a secured location immediately.
More ships keep arriving, fifteen in total so far.
This is crazy. We're loosing our first strike capabilities!
We're trying to communicate with them on all frequencies but we're getting nowhere. Atlantic Command is working on a type of visual communication.
That's impossible...
My God, the Vice President and the Joint Chiefs...
Mr. President, we must launch. A delay now would be more costly than when you waited to evacuate the cities!
You were the head of the National Intelligence Agency! You knew all about this. When were you planning on informing the rest of us!?
It had been deemed classified.
Christ, why didn't you say anything about this when they first arrived? You could have warned us before we launched a counter attack that cost us hundreds of American pilots!
This is ridiculous.
How long would their shields be down?
With their shields down it might be possible.
Please, you're not buying into any of this nonsense, are you? We don't have the manpower or the resources to launch that kind of a campaign. Not to mention that this whole cockamamie plan is dependent on a machine that no one in the world is qualified to operate.
With your permission, Mr. President, I'd like to remain my your side.
I had a feeling you would.
Sir, what happens if they do become hostile?
Then God help us.
General Grey, coordinate with Atlantic Command. Tell them they have twenty five minutes to get as many people out of the cities as they can.
But Mr. President...
And get those helicopters away from the ship. Call them back immediately.
Is my wife in the air?
She should be shortly.
Any news on my wife?
The helicopter never arrived at Nellis and there's been no radio contact.
Where are they?
ETA with target; four minutes.
Atlanta, Chicago and Philadelphia, destroyed?
And there are scattered reports of sightings over Miami, Ft. Worth, And Memphis.
And our forces?
We're down to approximately fifteen percent, Sir. If you calculate the time it takes them to destroy a city and move on, we're looking at world wide destruction of every major city within the next thirty six hours.
We're being exterminated.
Organize every plane you can find and get some Goddamned pilots to fly them.
Yes, Sir.
How're we doing?
Better than we thought.
We have confirmed divisions of troops from different armies all around the world. Most of Europe, the Middle East and Asia are battle ready.
And our troops here?
We've been collecting planes from all over but...
But what, General?
Pilots, sir. We don't have enough people to get them in the air.
Then find them.
Mr. President, just what do you think you're doing?
I'm a pilot, Will. This is where I belong.
Grey, you read me?
Roger, Eagle One, our primary target has shifted course.
Where's it headed?
I think our secret is out. They're headed right for us.
Do not engage until we've confirmed the package has been delivered.
Roger.
I'll see how they're doing with the radio transmitter.
Oh shit, we're late.
We'll meet you there.
I have a confession to make. I'm not real big on flying.
Great.
What the hell are you doing?
Just getting a feel for her.
Must be thousands of them. What are they doing?
Looks like they're preparing the invasion.
Get us out of here!
I can't shake her free.
What're you doing?
It's not me. They're overriding the system.
Nice meeting you.
You as well.
We're loose!
Doesn't matter. Game's over.
I don't hear no fat lady.
What are you waiting? My social security will expire, you'll still be sitting there.
I'm thinking.
So think already.
You have any idea how long it takes for those things to decompose?
You don't move soon. I'll begin to decompose.
David, I've been meaning to talk with you. It's nice you've been spending so much time with me, but...
Dad, don't start.
I'm only saying, it's been what? Four years, you still haven't signed your divorce papers.
Three years.
Three, four. Move on. It's not healthy.
Pops!
The television said they've started with the looting already. Vultures.
You still got the Olds?
You want to borrow the car? You don't have a license.
That's okay. You're driving.
It's the White House, for crying out loud. You can't just drive up and ring the bell.
Can't this thing go any faster?
You think they don't know what you know? Believe me, they know. She works for the President. They know everything.
They don't know this.
And you're going to educate them? Tell me something, you're so smart how come you spent eight years at M.I.T. to become a cable repairman?
Dad...
All I'm saying is they've got people who handle these things, David. They want HBO, they'll call you.
What the hell is that?
This, pops, is every phone book in America.
You think an important person like Constance is going to be listed?
She always keeps her portable phone listed, for emergencies. Sometimes it's just her first initial, sometime her nickname...
Not listed, huh?
I just haven't found it yet. I tried C. Halbrook, Connie Halbrook, Spunky Halbrook...
Spunky?
College nickname.
You try Martin?
She didn't take my name when we were married.
Perfect, she's using it.
It's perfect the line is busy?
Yes. I can use he signal to triangulate her exact position in the White House.
You can do that?
Sure he'll listen. Why wouldn't he?
Because last time I saw him I punched him in the face.
You punched the President in the face?
He wasn't the President then.
It's Air Force One for crying out loud. Still he gets sick?
Moishe, please, don't talk.
Dad, please...
What was it, Roswell? You had the space ship, the bodies, everything locked up in a bunker, the what is it, Area fifty one. That's it! Area fifty one. You knew and you didn't do nothing!
David, David! What the hell are you doing!?
I'm making a mess.
This I can see.
We've gotta burn the rain forest, Pops. Dump toxic waste, pollute the air, rip up the ozone. Maybe if we screw this planet up enough they won't want it anymore.
David, you're drunk.
Pops, you're a genius!
What'd I say?
A cold? Of course.
Thanks, Pops.
I want you should know, I'm very proud of you, son.
What the hell is the point of having a beeper if you don't turn it on?
It was turned on. I was ignoring you. What's the big emergency?
Started this morning. Every channel is making like it's nineteen fifty. Snow, static, all kinds of distortions. No one knows what the hell is going on.
What the hell is this?
So sue me.
Did you try to switch to transponder channels?
Please, would I be this panicked if it was that simple?
Let's retrofit the dish to another satellite.
We've tried. It's not working. It's almost as though they weren't even there.
There's good news and bad news.
What's the bad news?
You're in meal penalty for disturbing my lunch.
And the good news is you won't charge me.
No. The good news is I found the problem and it's not our equipment. There's some weird signal embedded within the satellite feed.
That's the good news?
Yes, because the analog signal has a definite sequential digital patterns embedded within it. When I find the exact binary sequence and I apply a phase reversed signal to that calculated spectra analyzer I built you last Christmas, we should be able to block out the overlay completely...
...and we'll be the only guys in town with a clear picture? That's my man.
I've got a lock on the signal pattern. We can filter it out.
Huh? Oh, good, good.
Strange thing is, if my calculations are right it'll be gone in approximately seven hours anyway. The signal reduces itself every time it recycles. Eventually it will disappear. Are you listening?
Can you believe this?
What're you talking about?
Haven't you been watching?
Tell her to get the kids and leave town.
What happened?
Just do it!
Okay, why did I just send my family to Atlanta?
Remember I told you that the signal hidden within our satellite signal is slowly recycling down to extinction.
Not really...
That signal. It's a countdown.
A countdown to what?
Think. It's like in chess. First you strategically position your pieces. Then, when the timing's right. You strike.
Then what?
Checkmate.
Can we expect the same kid of panic here as in Russia?
More than likely.
I don't know how you put up with him.
He used to run the NASA. He knows where all the bones are buried. Comes in handy.
I'll bet.
You saved a lot of lives.
I could have evacuated the cities hours ago. You know, when I flew in the Gulf War everything is simple. We knew what we had to do. It's not simple anymore, Connie. A lot of people died today. How many didn't have to?
We're losing them.
Then get them out of there.
David thought I was having an affair, which I wasn't.
Punched the President? Oh my god.
Moishe Martinsburg, Mr. President.
My exhusband works in satellite communications.
He still gets air sick, huh? In all of this I didn't get the chance to thank you two.
Think nothing of it, Spanky.
Spunky. He told you about that?
All he could think about was getting to you. There's still love there I think.
Love was never our problem.
All you need is love. John Lennon. Smart man. Shot in the back, very sad.
What do you want?
You have to leave the White House.
This is not the time or the place to have this same old discussion.
You don't understand. You have to leave Washington.
In case you haven't noticed, we're in a little bit of a crisis here.
I've worked with embedded loading. They're communicating with a hidden signal. They're going to attack...
You're being paranoid.
It's not paranoia. The embedding is very subtle. It's probably been overlooked...
What?
Connie, don't hang up.
David? How'd you get this number?
Walk to the window. Right in front of you.
And when is the countdown supposed to expire?
Fifty six minutes, forty five seconds.
What do you want me to do?
I want you to leave with us. Right now.
I can't leave. We have to tell this to the President.
He's not going to listen to me.
You can't be seriously considering firing nuclear weapons?
David, don't...
Just my luck, no ice.
I take it you've heard.
A toast to the end of the world.
You still believe in him.
He's a good man.
Better be. You left me for him.
I wanted a career. Didn't you ever want to be part of something special?
Thirty seconds? Isn't that cutting it a little too close?
We'll be well on our way out of there before we shoot that thing off.
With you? I don't understand why you can't just show someone how to plant the virus, somebody trained for this kind of mission?
If anything goes wrong I'll have to think quickly, adjust the signal, who knows?
Are you all right?
Did it work?
You bet it did.
Penicillin. At least it will help keep his fever down.
It's really nice of you to help us.
I wish I could do more but we're moving out.
We're going with you. I mean, we're going too.
Cool.
This could be our last night on Earth. I don't want to die a virgin.
If we do, we'll both die virgins. But at last we'll be together.
What's the story on Jimmy Gardner?
Gardner? Oh, um  he's a new student. Just moved here. Why?
His teacher brought him in to see me. Said he'd been acting up in class. Creating a disturbance. I couldn't get a thing out of him.
Oh?
What's his family background?
They're from out of state. Father's an engineer at the nuclear power plant. I really don't know much about them.
Ms. Magnuson, is Jimmy Gardner with you?
Why, yes.
Jimmy's father is on the phone. I wonder if you'd take the call.
All right. I'll be right back.
Well, come on, you two. Time to go to bed.
Mom  this is the best show all year.
I know. But you have a full day of school tomorrow  You, too.
What do you think he saw? Could it have been something from the air base?
No, Mom. It wasn't a plane.
George, where have you been?
What happened to your other slipper?
Your father asked you a question.
What?  I...
Hi. Sorry I'm late.
The back door was open.
Mom. I gotta talk to you.
What?
Don't go over the hill, Mom. Please.
When?
This afternoon. It's wonderful up there  you still haven't seen the best part.
I have school.
I'll pack us a lunch. Hamburgers. You always like that, don't you.
It's all this moving from place to place. We're never settled. I'm having nightmares myself.
What kind, Mom?
Oh, I can't remember. But people do have bad dreams when their routine is disturbed.
This is a new town for you. Do you like it here?
No.
Why not? Moving is hard for anybody. Was it hard for you to leave all your friends?
I don't have many friends. Dad's all the time moving.
Can you tell me about that?
That's quite a story. You know that, don't you?
Yes.
A UFO lands in back of your house and puts something in your Dad and Mom's necks. Then it gets the police, and your teacher too.
How did it get Mrs. McKeltch?
She said the frog came from around the Copper Ridge. She must've been behind the hill.
What would you think if somebody told you a story like this?
I'd believe him.
Why?
'Cause he wouldn't lie.
Do you know how to follow a map?
Yes. I can even read star maps.
This shows how to get to my home. I'm giving you back roads and footpaths, so there's less chance of you being seen.
Jimmy, calm down! What happened? Tell me what happened!
I got trapped in Mrs. McKeltch's van  and she went to the tunnel and went down there with them  behind my house. I saw them.
Where, Jimmy?
Behind my house, up on the ridge.
If we go and look and there's nothing there, you'll have to admit to me that this is all in your mind.
This is where it was  the tunnel opening.
I don't see anything.
No, but it was here.
I swear it was here.
But it's not, Jimmy.
No.
Let's go look at the sand pit behind your house.
They'll get us.
We'll be very careful. But we have to see. If something landed there, there would be a big scar in the ground. Wouldn't there?
Does it look to you like anything landed here?
Maybe  it landed in the bushes.
Stay here. I'm going to make a phone call.
Who are you calling?
The State Police.
Did you call the State Police?
All their lines were busy.
No one comes here after dark.
Hide the car.
Damn.
I know a way.
What is it?
I don't know. I don't know what I'm doing here 
But you saw  the men go under the sand ...
Yes ... yes, but I'm not sure what I saw anymore.
Don't go in.
I'm not. They must be tunneling under the whole town.
We can't do this alone. We've got to get help.
There was a man named Colonel Wilson, from the Air Force Base. He was talking in our class. He said we could visit him any time we wanted. I'll bet he could do something.
Let's try.
You're looking for life?
They didn't find any signs of life on the Viking missions.
Hello, this is Ms. Magnuson speaking.
I understand, Miss, that you have my son in your office.
Yes, I do, Mr. Gardner.
May I ask why?
We were having a little talk.
About what?
Children often have trouble adjusting to a new school.
I don't know what he's told you  What <u>has</u> he told you? Would you like to tell <u>me</u>  ?
Mr. Gardner, I 
You people have a lot of nerve, taking it on yourselves to encourage young children to speak out of turn. I'm of a mind to pull him out of school if this is your idea of how to handle ... What sort of training do you have anyway?
Mr. Gardner, I don't think this is the place to discuss this matter.
I'm not particularly interested, <u>Ms.</u> Magnuson, in what you think is correct. My wife and I are going away on a business trip this afternoon and we want Jimmy with us. Keep him in your office until we arrive.
Of course.
We'll be by to pick him up in ten minutes.
Yes, Mr. Gardner.
What do you mean  gone? What the hell kind of a nurse are you, anyway?
I'm sorry, Mr. Gardner. I was out of my office for a minute and when I got back  he was gone.
What did he talk to you about?
He was upset with moving, I believe.
Is that all he said?
Why, yes. Why?
I have to go over to the town this morning and do a lot of shopping. This house needs just <u>everything</u>. I'll probably be gone all day. Jimmy, hurry up and eat or you'll be late.
I'll take you to school.
You don't have to. The school bus stops right outside here, at 7:30. I've got to run.
It's probably the solenoid. Take it back to Gleason's, they said they'd fix it if we found anything wrong.
I will. But isn't that odd  about my dream ... ?
What happened to you? Who was that?
That's Ed. Ed works with the Bell Telephone switching division.
Where's your car?
I left it at work.
You did? Why? Where were you? They said you left hours ago. We were worried.
I'm home now.
Yes  but ...
You know, it really is beautiful up there. Let me show you. We'll take a walk after dinner.
George, you're acting very strangely.
What's wrong, Ellen?
It's his nightmare. He still hasn't gotten over it ... about the other side of the hill.
Better get some sleep, son, or you'll be pretty tired at school tomorrow.
Good night.
Son ... are you awake?
Yes.
We're going to be moving, son.
Do we have to?
I know, son. But you'll like it where we're going. I'm getting a good job. It's a pretty part of the country.
I'll have to go to a new school  again.
You'll meet new friends. I know ... it's rough. But I have to move, son.
What's that, Dad?
That's the Air Force Base.
Wow. Look at the mountains.
This can be your room if you want it. What do you say?
Is the hill ours too?
If we want it, it is.
Let's check it out, Dad.
Wow. There's the town. And there's the air base. This is a great hill.
It's got a name. Copper Ridge. There used to be a copper mine near here.
Let's see what's on the other side. Maybe we'll find some copper.
A meteorite, Dad, look!
It's that time of year again. We should get a pretty good show out here.
Why, Dad?
Because the sky is so clear out here.
There are more this year than last.
This should be the heaviest shower of the year.
There's Cassius ...
... and Rigel.
And that one  to the right of Rigel?
Which one's that? The dull, red one.
That's Mars. The closest planet to us, now. That's why it's more than just a point in the sky.
Well, son? Should we call it a night? I for one have had a long day.
Okay.
Jim  what's wrong?!
You've got to come see  a big thing went down over the hill!
It was big  and it glowed  and it went down over there  behind the hill.
What did it look like?
It was  it was  it changed shape. First it was big and round, then it was flat, then it was long and thin.
Are you sure you saw that? In the rain  it may have <u>looked</u> like it changed shape 
I don't know, Dad. But it was big.
I'll go take a look when the rain lets off.
Are you all right, Dad?
Sure ... fine.
I lost it. It's kind of muddy out there.
Was there anything over the hill?
I had an awful dream.
What, Jim, what?
First lemme look at your necks.
... And then everything blew up. And then I woke up.
That's a doozy of a dream, son.
It was so real, Dad.
It was all made of stuff that's happened to you in the last few days. The sand pit in back of the house, and the meteor shower, and meeting your teacher and the colonel at school, and being afraid of the new kids because you don't know them ...
I know, Ellen. We'll settle down soon.
I was so scared.
Better now, son?
Need some gas?
Please.
Only got one kind.
That's fine.
Hell of a night.
You got that right.
So, what do you do?
I'm am architect. I'm working on a site back in 
You built things.
I guess you could say that.
Bathroom?
Round back.
I remember the first time we met. Do you remember that?
Yes.
It was at Diane's party in Malibu and I had just broken up with Todd and I was loaded for bear, any man who had the nerve to come at me  watch out. So you come sauntering in  you know that saunter you do. That watch out, baby, here comes Mr. Smooth thing.
You and that damned garden.
Yeah, but when your mother came what's the first thing you showed her?
I surrender 
Besides, if we get a lot of work done this summer it'll be done.
It's never gonna be done. You love puttering out there too much.
Well, it's not supposed to be done anyway.
The more we plant, the more that'll grow, and the happier 
Virginia...?
What?
Good evening. Did you have a pleasant day today?
Busy. I went swimming and prepared a new vehicle. A big vehicle.
That sounds charming. Did you meet any interesting people today?
Yesterday. They're back. Haven't seen them for a few months. I have to be careful.
Tell me about the interesting people you met, won't you?
They are... sinister. They want to kill me.
That sounds charming. What are you planning to do tomorrow?
Stay alive.
You  think I am  I'm   an animal.
No.
I can't live like you do  all your machines and  cold metal and sharp corners 
You lived like this once.
That is not now, human!
My name is Robert.
It is not arguing to speak the truth.
Listen to me, my blood somehow... helped you. It could help all of you. We could find some way to 
Are you all right?
Yes.
Do you want to go on?
How much do you remember?
It comes back. Flashes. My name.
Do you remember where you lived?
It was warm. I was outside. The ocean?
What about... now?
With them?
Yes.
We move. Place to place.
When you're here, in the city, where do you live?
Dark and large. With vines  no, not vines. Not alive.
Who is this?
My wife.
Was this  "beautiful?" Before?
Yes.
Do you remember where it is?
What?
Where you lived with them.
You want to find them.
Yes.
You want to kill them.
Why don't you start with me?
You're not them.
What choice did I have  ?!
You hunt us like animals  do you know how many you have slaughtered?!
I only protect myself  !
You are The Human. The Hunter. The thing that comes in the day and kills 
If I'm a hunter it's because you taught me to be!
What do you want?
What do you mean?
You know what I mean.
Will you keep feeding me? How long can you live like that? Until it kills you? Until I kill you? Without your blood I'll go back.
We don't know that 
I know it. What do you want, Robert?
Mine.
Have you always had it?
I don't know.
Have you looked inside?
Yes.
What's inside?
Humans.
Who?
I don't know.
That's who you are too, Emma.
Before... when I was one of them. I would look at this and it was just strangers. Now I... remember.
You want me to stay?
Yes.
Do you still want me to stay?
Yes.
Emma...
He wanted me to see  he thinks I was  infected by you.
Shhh... don't talk.
I want to talk. I just learned again.
You have to go. He'll never stop. Leave this place. Find another.
I'll go. We'll both go. Far away.
Now and then. You know how it is.
You're, uh, you're Minnesota Fats, aren't you? You know, uh, they say Minnesota Fats is the best in the country out where I come from.
Is that a fact?
Yes sir, boy, they, heh, they say that old Fats just shoots the eyes right off them balls.
Where do you come from?
California. Oakland.
California? Is your name Felson? Eddie Felson?
That's right.
I hear you've been looking for me.
Yeah. That's right, too.
Big John! You think this boy is a hustler?
Do you like to gamble, Eddie? Gamble money on pool games?
Fats, let's you and I shoot a game of straight pool.
Hundred dollars?
Well, you shoot bigtime pool, Fats. I mean, that's what everybody says, you shoot bigtime pool. Let's make it two hundred dollars a game.
Now I know why they call you Fast Eddie. Eddie, you talk my kind of talk... Sausage! Rack 'em up!
Boy, he is great! Jeez, that old fat man. Look at the way he moves. Like a dancer.
Twelve. Cross side.
And them fingers, them chubby fingers. And that stroke. It's like he's, uh, like he's playing a violin or something.
Nine ball. Three ball.
Your shot.
You miss? Well, you don't leave much when you miss, do you, fat man?
That's what the game's all about.
Mm hm... Two ball, side pocket.
Very good shot.
You know I gotta hunch, fat man. I gotta hunch it's me from here on in... One ball, corner pocket. I mean, that ever happen to you? When all of a sudden you feel like you can't miss? I dreamed about this game, fat man. I dreamed about this game every night on the road... five ball... You know, this is my table, man. I own it.
Preach! Go down and get me some White Tavern whisky, a glass, and some ice.
Preacher! Go on down and get me some bourbon. J. T. S. Brown. No ice, no glass.
Preach... get it at Johnny's. You got a bet.
Fats, I got about two hundred dollars here.
Game's over, Eddie.
Fats, look, I got about two hundred dollars here. You can't run out on me.
You watch me.
I came to play pool, Fats.
That's good, Eddie. For how much?
You name it.
Thousand dollars a game.
Let's make it three thousand dollars a game, Fats. C'mon, three thousand dollars. That's my bankroll, my life's savings. What's the matter, Fats? All you gotta do is beat me the first game and I'm on my way back to Oakland.
Let's go.
Shoot pool, Fast Eddie.
I'm shootin' pool, Fats. When I miss you can shoot.
I quit, Eddie. I can't beat you. Willie, give him the stakes. You got yourself a pool player.
Preacher, gimme my coat, will ya?
...you shoot a great game of pool.
So do you, Fast Eddie.
Long wait for a bus?
Yes.
How long you been waiting?
What?
How long have you been waiting?
Since four.
Just a cup of black coffee, please... Hey, ma'am! Wait a minute! Would you, uh, like another cup?
Fine, thanks.
What time does the bus leave?
What bus?
Yours.
Eight o'clock.
That wouldn't give us much time, would it?
Well, you're right. I guess it wouldn't.
Have a nice trip.
Thanks. I will.
Have a nice trip?
Fair.
Can I sit down?
Why not? We already know each other's secrets.
Thanks for the, uh, for the breakfast.
Two ships that pass in the night should always buy each other breakfast.
Can I buy you another drink?
It's the lights. And the scotch.
How come you didn't catch your bus?
I wasn't waiting for a bus.
Then why go to the bus station?
Same reason you went: at that hour of the morning you haven't much choice. Besides, I only live three blocks from there. Where do you live?
Around.
I know where you live: in a locker, in a bus station. What's it like living in a locker?
Cramped. You always drink like this, so early in the morning?
Do you always ask so many questions?
No, not always.
Sometimes I wake up and I can't sleep, not without a drink. The bars don't open until eight. Mack over there has faith in me. When I'm broke, he trusts me. Don't you trust me, Mack?
You talk kind of funny, but I like it.
I used to be an actress.
Yeah? What do you do now?
I'm a college girl. Two days a week, Tuesdays and Thursdays, I go to college.
You don't look like a college girl.
I'm the emancipated type. Real emancipated.
No, I didn't mean that  whatever that means. I mean, you just don't look young enough.
I'm not.
So why go to college?
I've got nothing else to do on Tuesdays and Thursdays.
What do you do on the other days?
I drink.
Hey!
No. No more. I'm getting sleepy. Thank you very much, Mr...?
Eddie. The name is Eddie.
The name should be Eddie. What should my name be?
I don't know. Whatever you like it to be.
I like it to be what it is. It's Sarah. That's a biblical name. You want to know its meaning?
I could always get us a bottle.
No.
Fifth of scotch?
What do you want me to do, just step out in the alley? Is that it?
No. I'll take you home.
Why did you do that?
I wanted to see what kind of a day it is.
A day like any other. People come, people go.
Give me a drag.
What time is it?
Eleven o'clock... I'll be back later.
Why?
Come here.
Oh, you need a shave. You mustn't go looking like that. There's a razor and shaving cream in the bathroom. Compliments of the house.
What did you say that for, Sarah?
How did you know my name was Sarah?
You told me.
I lied. When I'm drunk I lie.
Okay. So what's your name today?
Sarah. Eddie, look. I've got troubles, and I think maybe you've got troubles. Maybe it'd be better if we just leave each other alone.
I got my things over at the hotel. I'll bring them over later... Come here.
I'm not sure... I don't know.
Well, what do you want to know? And why?
Where you been all day?
At school. It's Thursday.
Oh, I forgot.
You were asleep when I left. I didn't want to wake you. Did you go out?
Yeah, I went out for a couple of hours.
You know, I've been living here for almost three years. Now in three days it seems as if I know everybody. When I pass people on the street I want to stop and say, "Listen, I got a fella."
Thanks.
Eddie, where do you go when you go out?
Museums... art galleries... concerts.
Well, I believe you when you say you go to school.
You want to go with me?
What, are you kidding? See that book? I've been trying to get through that book ever since I first got here. I haven't finished the first chapter. Did you read all them books?
Mm hmm.
You got it all in your head?
When I'm sober. They get a little mixed up when I'm drunk. Most of the time they're mixed up.
Oh, stop talking about yourself like you're a lush or something. I don't like it. Maybe you ought to go to a clinic, get some treatments.
I'm getting treatments right here.
I'm hungry.
Take your choice. I've got enough so we won't have to go out of the house till Tuesday.
What did all this stuff cost you?
When you've got money, you'll pay.
No, c'mon, I wanna know. I wanna keep score.
The bills are right here. You didn't say what you wanted.
Don't you ever cook anything?
Eggs. How do you like them?
Raw.
Oh, cut my finger.
I've got something in my bag.
Oh, it's not bad.
Eddie, what's in that case?
Haven't you opened it?
No, why should I? It's yours.
It's a machine gun. This guy told me when I came to the big city I'd have to have a machine gun, so I bought one. Where do you get the money? To pay for all this? I mean the liquor, and the groceries, and the rent?
From a rich old man who used to be my lover.
Do you want me to go?
No, stick around. Can I get you something? Drink? Coffee?
You going out?
Yeah. For a little while.
What are you writing?
Oh, it's a story. A story I'm making up.
Give it to me.
What's this supposed to mean?
Give it back to me.
What's this supposed to mean: "We have a contract of depravity. All we have to do is pull the blinds down."
You told Charlie to lay down and die. Will you say that to me too? What happens, Eddie?
You'll find yourself another rich old lover.
That's right! And I'm sure you'll help me.
Who is it?
Me. It's Eddie.
What happened?
I got beat up. They... They broke my thumbs.
You can read it, if you want to. You want to go out for a while? To a movie?
You wanna drink?
No. You?
What's it so hot in here for?
Sarah, do you think I'm a loser?
A loser?
Yeah. I met this guy  Gordon, Bert Gordon. He said I was. Born loser.
Would he know?
He knows. A lot.
Why did he tell you?
I don't know. I'm not sure. He said there are people who want to lose, who are always looking for an excuse to lose.
What does he do, this Bert Gordon?
He's a gambler.
Is he a winner?
Well, he owns things.
Is that what makes a winner?
Well, what else does?
Does it bother you? What he said?
Yeah. Yeah. It bothers me a lot. 'Cause, you see, twice, Sarah  once at Ames with Minnesota Fats and then again at Arthur's... ...in that cheap, crummy poolroom... Now, why'd I do it, Sarah? Why'd I do it? I coulda beat that guy, I coulda beat him cold. He never woulda known. But I just had to show 'em, I just had to show those creeps and those punks what the game is like when it's great, when it's really great. You know, like anything can be great  anything can be great... I don't care, bricklaying can be great. If a guy knows. If he knows what he's doing and why, and if he can make it come off. I mean, when I'm goin'  when I'm really goin'  I feel like... ...like a jockey must feel. He's sittin' on his horse, he's got all that speed and that power underneath him, he's comin' into the stretch, the pressure's on him  and he knows  just feels  when to let it go, and how much. 'Cause he's got everything workin' for him  timing, touch. It's a great feeling, boy, it's a real great feeling when you're right, and you know you're right. It's like all of a sudden I got oil in my arm. Pool cue's part of me. You know, it's a  pool cue's got nerves in it. It's a piece of wood  it's got nerves in it. You feel the roll of those balls. You don't have to look. You just know. Ya make shots that nobody's ever made before. And you play that game the way nobody's ever played it before.
You're not a loser, Eddie. You're a winner. Some men never get to feel that way about anything. I love you, Eddie.
You know, someday, Sarah, you're gonna settle down. You're gonna marry a college professor, and you're gonna write a great book. Maybe about me, huh? Fast Eddie Felson, hustler.
I love you.
You need the words?
Yes, I need them very much. And if you ever say them I'll never let you take them back.
You glad?
Yes, I'm glad.
Sherry. Very old, very dry.
Two. Sherry?... Nice joint. You look very pretty.
I feel pretty.
Well, what's so funny?
Your tie. I never saw you wear one before.
First time for everything.
What is it, Eddie?
Nothin'. Want another drink?
What do you want to tell me?
Well, I, uh, I'll be leaving town for a little while.
For how long?
Oh, I don't know.
A week? A year?
More like a week. Look, I'll be back.
Sure. Let's go home.
No, I want to walk.
Come here. Come on, now.
Don't you want to know where I'm going?
No. Yes, I want to know what for. But I don't want to ask.
I'm going to Kentucky. To Louisville. With a friend. Try to make some money. I need it, the money. I'll be leaving early in the morning.
Leave now.
Oh, grow up.
Why should I?
Sarah, I'm going to Kentucky to play pool, with a guy by the name of Findley. Now, I need the action and I need the money. I told you I'd be back.
If you were going to come back you wouldn't have taken me out tonight. You wouldn't have bought this dress. You're hustling me, Eddie. You've never stopped hustling me.
Now, I never hustled you. Even when I thought I was. You know it.
What do you want me to do? Just sit here and wait? Faithful little Sarah. Pull the shades down and sit. When you feel like coming back, you'll come back. And you'll love me. And then you'll go away again. Is that your idea of love?
I got no idea of love. And neither have you. I mean, neither one of us would know what it was if we saw it coming down the street.
I'd know it, Eddie. I'd know. For God's sakes, what are you trying to do to me? I love you.
Well, what's your idea of love? Chains?
No. I made you up, didn't I, Eddie? You weren't real. I made you up, like everything else. There was no car crash, Eddie. When I was five, I had polio. I was never an actress. The rich old man is my father. He walked out on us when I was seven. He sends me a check every month. That's how he buys his way out of my life. The men I've known... after they left, I'd say they weren't real, I made them up. But you, Eddie. I wanted you to be real.
Fiftyseven.
I'll be up later.
Where's Bert?
He went off someplace.
Well, that old lovin' horse paid twentytwo forty. Let's see... two hundred I won from the jockey last night. And today at the track... I got five hundred and forty bucks. Here, you hold it.
Why?
Just for luck.
If you don't mind I think I'll stay at the hotel.
Well, what's the matter?
I'm a little tired.
Go on back to the hotel.
Please, Eddie, don't beg him.
Would you go on back to the hotel? Take a cab, go on back to the hotel.
Doesn't all of this come through to you, Eddie? Doesn't any of this mean anything to you? That man, this place, the people. They wear masks, Eddie. And underneath the masks they're perverted, twisted, crippled.
Shut up.
Don't wear a mask, Eddie. You don't have to. That's Turk, Eddie, the man who broke your thumbs. Only he's not going to break your thumbs. He'll break your heart, your guts. And for the same reason  'cause he hates you, 'cause of what you are. 'Cause of what you have and he hasn't.
Would you get off my back, Sarah? Once and for all, will you get out, will you GET OFF MY BACK?!
Hi.
Hi.
How much you playin' for?
A dollar on the five, two on the nine.
Yeah, I'll play you a couple. Just for kicks.
Okay, friend.
You quittin' too?
You're a pretty good player.
How much are you ahead?
Couple of bucks.
I guess it's just you and me, huh?
Yeah, I guess it is, boy. Just you and me.
You wanna raise the bet? Two on the five, five on the nine?
You know what, kid? I think maybe you're a hustler.
Try me.
Shoot.
Okay.
You sure you don't want to quit, friend?
Let's cut out the small stuff, huh? Hundred dollar freezeout. Ten games, ten bucks a game, winner take all. And then we'll see who quits.
Okay, friend. You're on.
Call it.
Heads.
You better not miss, friend.
I don't rattle, kid. But just for that I'm gonna beat you flat.
You quittin', friend?
Yeah, I'm quittin'.
Hey, uh, mister? Hey, okay if I grab a cue?
Hey, you're Eddie Felson, aren't you?
Who's he?
Now, look, fella, I saw you playing at Ames the other night.
Hey, I'll tell you what  I'll play you jackup pool  just keep one hand in my pocket.
Oh man, you're way out of our league.
What's the limit?
Half and a dollar.
Gimme ten bucks.
Ten dollars.
No, no more for me.
Well, hello. Haven't seen you in a long time.
Findley.
Glad to meet you.
And I you. I think I've heard about you, Mr. Felson. You play pocket billiards, don't you?
Now and then. Why, do you?
A little, although I'm afraid I generally lose.
I'll bet you do, Mr. Felson. I'll just bet you do.
How much?
Bert, I believe Mr. Felson's making a proposition.
When?
You're very direct, Mr. Felson.
That's right. When?
Would you like to come out tonight?
What time?
I'm having some people over for drinks right after the races. Why don't you all come over? Then about nine, ten o'clock we can play.
You gentlemen care for a drink?
No, none for me. Come on, let's play.
By all means.
I thought we came here to play pool.
I don't play pool, Mr. Felson. I play billiards. My house, my game. You don't have to play if you don't want to.
Beautiful shot, Felson. Beautiful. You've played billiards before, Mr. Felson. Ah, you gentlemen sure you don't care for a drink?
Oh no, nothing for me.
Like to raise the stakes, Mr. Felson?
Okay?
There it is. I'm broke.
Ah, that's unfortunate, Mr. Felson.
For who, Mr. Findley? ...Bert, he only beat me by one point. Now, you can't get off me now.
Here. Been an interestin' evening.
Yeah, sure has.
Charles, will you call a cab for these gentlemen, please. I'd show you to the door, but I...
Oh yeah, yeah. You're tired. And beat.
Yeah. You must come again.
Yeah. Sure.
Druggist supplies. Buster here is gonna get an award. No, he sold seventeen thousand bucks' worth of stuff last month. Fastest boy in the territory.
Yep. Fastest and the bestest... Hey, give us another round, will ya? One for him, one for yourself.
It's gonna cost ya money. It always does.
Oh, come on, stop stalling. Grab yourself a cue.
You ought to take up crap shooting. Talk about luck!
Luck! Whaddya mean, luck?
You know what I mean. You couldn't make that shot again in a million years.
I couldn't, huh? Okay. Go ahead. Set 'em up the way they were before.
Why?
Go ahead. Set 'em up the way they were before. Bet ya twenty bucks. Make that shot just the way I made it before.
Nobody can make that shot and you know it. Not even a lucky lush.
Set 'em up again... C'mon, set 'em up again.
You're drunk, boy. I'm not gonna bet ya any more.
Whaddya mean?
Let's get back on the road. You gotta be at that convention in the morning.
Up the flagpole with the convention. C'mon, Charlie. You're into me now. I got my money on the table.
I don't want it.
Well... well, now.
Don't be a chump. Don't bet any more money on that damn fool shot.
Well, now... I mean, you figure I'm a little drunk, and I'm loaded on the hip, and you just want in, real friendly, while the money's still floating, huh? Okay... Go ahead. Set 'em up.
It's quiet.
Yeah, like a church. Church of the Good Hustler.
Looks more like a morgue to me. Those pool tables are the slabs they lay the stiffs on.
I'll be alive when I get out, Charlie.
Ten grand. I'm gonna win ten grand in one night. ...Well, who's gonna beat me? C'mon, Charlie, who's gonna beat me?
Okay... Okay. Nobody can beat you.
Ten grand! I mean, what other poolroom is there in the country where a guy can walk out with ten grand in one night? Jeez, you know, I can remember hustling an old man for a dime a game.
How do you feel?
Fast and loose, man.
In the gut, I mean.
I feel tight  but good.
Quit. He's too good.
Charlie, I'm gonna take him.
Hey, how much are we ahead?
Approximately? One thousand bucks.
Fats, let's you and I shoot a game of pool for a thousand dollars a game.
How much we got?
Eleven thousand four hundred, cash. Here in my pocket.
Preacher, go on down and get me some breakfast, will ya? Egg sandwich and a cup of coffee. You want something, Charlie?
Now wait a minute. You're coming with me. You're gonna eat breakfast at the hotel. Pool game is over.
No, it isn't, Charlie.
Eddie...
The pool game is over when Fats says it's over.
You wanted ten thousand? You got ten thousand.
Ah, get with it, will ya, Charlie?
Get with what?
You can't see it, can you, Charlie? I mean, you've never been able to see it. I came after him. And I'm gonna get him. I'm goin' with him all the way. The pool game is not over until Minnesota Fats says it's over. Is it over, Fats?
Twentyfive hours, Eddie. Twenty five hours you been playin' straight.
Give me a drink, will ya?
You don't need a drink.
Will you shut up... Just give me a drink.
What are you trying to do, Eddie? You beat him. You beat him bad. You wanna kill yourself?
What are ya, chicken, Charlie?
Well, maybe that's it. I'm chicken.
Go on home. Just leave me the money.
Go to hell.
Charlie, boy, you better give me that money. C'mon now, give it to me. It's mine.
Okay, here... Be a damn fool.
Is this all we got left?
If that's all you got, that's all we got left.
Hello, Charlie... C'mon in... That's my girl.
Hello, Eddie's girl... I looked all over for you.
Oh yeah? How'd you find me?
I asked around.
Oh, I don't want to be no bother to nobody.
Oh, don't play it small, Charlie. It don't look good on you.
How do you want me to play it? I'm broke.
So am I... Sit down. Would you get us a couple of drinks?
You walked out on me like that. No goodbye, no nothing. Like a thief in the dark. We were partners. We were more than partners. He was like a... like 
A son.
Yeah, yeah, like a son. I've known this boy since he was sixteen. The first time I saw him, back in Oakland, I said, "This is a talented boy. This is a smart boy."
Talk to me, Charlie.
I want you to come back on the road with me.
Aah! I've got no stomach for that any more. I've had that kind of life.
What kind of life have you got here? Scufflin' around the small rooms, picking up eight, ten bucks a day?
I'll connect. I'll get you your money back.
Are you figuring on going back to Ames to play Minnesota Fats again? Is that what's on your mind?
Never been out of it. I'm gonna beat that fat man... with that curly hair, and those diamond rings, and that carnation.
This boy's crazy. They wiped the floor with him. They beat his brains out and he wants to go back. What for? To take another beating?
I told you you'd get your money back.
He thinks I care about the money. I care about you. Do you care about me, Eddie? We're together a long time, night and day. So how do you say goodbye? You gimme the car and a hundred bucks. You think I care about the dough, the car? I care about you. This boy is the greatest pool hustler you ever saw. A real highclass con man. He can charm anybody into anything. Did he ever tell you how well we were doing on the road? We had everything: we ate good, we slept late, we had money to burn. Whisky, dames... Excuse me... I'll tell you what  take her along.
With what?
Don't worry about it. I'll raise the money.
Oh yeah? Where?
What's the difference where? I'll raise it. Is it all right if I have another drink?
HOW MUCH?!
My twentyfive per cent. Approximately fifteen hundred bucks.
Oh, you crumb. With that fifteen hundred I coulda beat him. That's all I needed, Charlie.
Aw, Eddie.
C'mon, c'mon, just give me the money.
What for? To play Fats again?
Yeah, to play Fats again.
You wanna come back on the road with me, okay, the money's yours. But if you wanna give it to Minnesota Fats... nothing doing. What do you say?
You still don't see it, do you, Charlie? You are nothing but a small time Charlie. You'd love to keep me hustling for you, huh? Wouldn't ya? I mean, a couple more years with me, scuffling around them little towns and those back alleys. You might make yourself enough to get a little poolroom back in Oakland. Six tables and a handbook on the side. Is that when you say goodbye to me, Charlie?
Is that what you think?
Yeah, that's what I think.
All right. That's what I want. Poolroom with a little handbook on the side. Getting old.
Lay down and die by yourself. Don't take me with you.
Just like that?
Yeah. Just like that.
Maybe. You want to play?
No. Hell, no! You Eddie Felson?
Who's he?
What's your game? What do you shoot?
You name it, we shoot it.
Look, friend, I'm not trying to hustle. I don't never hustle people that walk into poolrooms with leather satchels. Don't try to hustle me.
Okay, I'm Eddie Felson. I shoot straight pool. You got any straight pool shooters in this here poolroom?
What kind of straight pool game you like?
The expensive kind.
Come up here to play straight pool with Minnesota Fats?
Yeah, that's right.
Want some free advice?
He's my partner.
You wellheeled, partner?
You got that wrong, mister. I am.
Okay, I told you what I wanted about Minnesota Fats. You just go ahead and play him, friend.
Just tell me where I can find him, friend.
Comes right in this poolroom every night, eight o'clock on the nose. Just stay where you are. He'll find you.
Hey, mister.
The name's Gordon. Bert Gordon.
Mister. You been sittin' in that spot for hours. Would you mind moving? It bothers me.
Stay with this kid. He's a loser.
What did he say?
Okay?
Sit down.
Make it twenty.
Cut.
Deal.
Bourbon. J. T. S. Brown.
Two.
I'm buyin'.
Thought you only drank milk.
Only when I work.
Yeah? Why?
I like it. It's good for you. Besides, you start drinking whisky gambling and it gives you an excuse for losing. That's something you don't need  an excuse for losing. How did you make out in the poker game?
I lost twenty bucks.
Poker's not your game.
What is?
Pool.
You being cute?
I don't think there's a pool player alive shoots better pool than I saw you shoot the other night at Ames. You got talent.
So I got talent. So what beat me?
Character.
Yeah. Sure, sure.
You're damned right I'm sure. Everybody's got talent. I got talent. You think you can play bigmoney straight pool, or poker, for forty straight hours on nothing but talent? You think they call Minnesota Fats the best in the country just 'cause he's got talent? Nah. Minnesota Fats's got more character in one finger than you got in your whole skinny body.
I got drunk.
He drank as much whisky as you did.
Maybe he knows how to drink.
You bet he knows how. You think that's a talent too, huh? Knowin' how to drink whisky? You think Minnesota Fats was born knowin' how to drink?
Okay, okay... What do I do now, lie down on the floor and, uh, bow from the ankles? What do I do, go home?
That's your problem.
So I stay. Stay until I hustle up enough to play Fats again. Maybe by that time I'll develop myself some character.
Maybe by that time you'll die of old age. How much do you think you'll, uh, need?
A thousand.
No, three thousand at least. He'll start you off at five hundred a game  he'll beat the pants off you. That's the way he plays when he comes up against a man who knows the way the game is. He'll beat you flat four or five games  maybe more, depending on how, uh... steady your nerves are. But he might  he just might be a little scared of you, and that could change things. But I wouldn't count on it.
How do you know? Huh? When nobody knows that much?
See that big car parked out by the fireplug on the way in? Well, that's mine. I like that car. But I get a new one every year because I make it my business to know what guys like you and Minnesota Fats are gonna do. I made enough off of you the other night to pay for it twice over.
In that case, you owe me another drink.
Eddie, is it all right if I get personal?
Whaddya been so far?
Eddie, you're a born loser.
What's that supposed to mean?
First time in ten years I ever saw Minnesota Fats hooked, really hooked. But you let him off.
I told you. I got drunk.
Sure, you got drunk. That's the best excuse in the world for losing. No trouble losing when you got a good excuse. And winning! That can be heavy on your back too. Like a monkey. You drop that load too when you got an excuse. All you gotta do is learn to feel sorry for yourself. It's one of the best indoor sports: feeling sorry for yourself  a sport enjoyed by all, especially the born losers.
Thanks for the drink.
Wait a minute. Maybe I can help you.
To do what?
Get the three thousand. Play Minnesota Fats again.
Why?
Ten reasons. Maybe fifteen. And also there's something in it for me.
Oh yeah, I figured that. How much?
Seventyfive per cent.
For who?
For me.
That's a  that's a pretty big slice. Who do you think you are, General Motors?
How much you think you're worth these days? I'm puttin' up the money, I'm puttin' up the time. For that I get seventyfive per cent return on my money  if you win.
You think I can lose?
I never saw you do anything else.
You saw me beat Minnesota Fats for eighteen thousand dollars.
Look, you wanna hustle pool, don't you? This game isn't like football. Nobody pays you for yardage. When you hustle you keep score real simple. The end of the game you count up your money. That's how you find out who's best. That's the only way.
Why back me then? Why not back yourself? Go find yourself a big fat poker game and get rich. You know all the angles.
I'm already rich. But I like action. That's one thing I think you're good for is action. Besides, like I say... you got talent.
Yeah, you already told me that. You cut that slice down to bitesize and maybe we can talk.
No, we don't talk. I don't make bad bets. Seventyfive, twentyfive. That's it.
Kiss off.
Hey, wait. What are you gonna do about the money?
There are places. I'll scuffle around.
Word's out on you, Eddie. You walk in the wrong kind of place and they'll eat you alive.
Now, when did you adopt me?
I don't know when it was.
Hello, Eddie.
Hi. How's business?
Ahh, slow... Why the open hand bridge? Something wrong with your hand?
Yeah. Had a little accident. A place called Arthur's.
Oh. You seem to do all right that way.
I'd say my game is about twenty per cent off. Maybe more.
What happened? Somebody step on your hands?
Yeah. Big creep. Broke my thumbs.
Man named Turk Baker?
You know everybody, don't you?
Everybody who can hurt me, everybody who can help me. It pays.
Maybe you oughta give me lessons.
Sign up.
Where do I sign?
The first match I got in mind for you is in Louisville, Kentucky.
You name the place, boss. I'll be there.
What happened to you anyway?
Like I told ya. My thumbs.
No, I don't mean the thumbs. You already told me about the thumbs.
I been thinking.
Thinking about what?
Maybe I'm not such a highclass piece of property right now. And a twenty five per cent slice of something big is better than a hundred per cent slice of nothin'.
Hey, get us a couple of drinks here, will ya? J. T. S. Brown.
Sarah Packard... Bert Gordon.
Miss Packard. How do you do?
James Findley is a very rich man. Grandfather left him twenty per cent of a tobacco company.
What? And he  he hustles pool?
He's a gentleman. Gentleman gambler. He gets his kicks playing with hustlers. He's got an old Southern mansion with a pool table in the basement, drinks eightyearold bourbon, smokes corktipped cigarettes.
How good is he?
I don't know. Never saw him play. They say he's one of the best.
You must have a lot of confidence in me.
I don't. But I got confidence in Findley.
What's that supposed to mean?
Means I got confidence that he's a loser. All the way a loser. You happen to be about only onehalf loser  the other half, winner. I'm finished.
Here, I got it.
No, no. When you play for me, I pick up all the tabs.
Fats knew the game was in the clutch, knew he had to do something to stop ya. He played it smart.
I played that game, Bert. In my head I played it a thousand times.
Play it again. Learn something. Fats went in the john, see? Washed his face, cleaned his fingernails, made his mind a blank, combed his hair, came back all ready to go. You were through. You saw him, you saw how he looked. Clean, all set to start all over again. Hold tight and push hard. You know what you were doing? You were waitin' to get beat. Flattened out on your butt, swimmin' around in glory. And whisky. Probably deciding how you could lose.
Fine.
Good. I'd hate to think I was putting my money on a cripple.
Hey, whaddya say something like that for?
You know, that's real sweet music in there. You can almost smell the action and the money. You know, I can feel it right down in the bottom of my shoes.
Come on, let's go...
Hey, Findley's here.
Where?
Over there by the bar.
Aren't you gonna go over and talk to him?
Nah. Sit tight. He'll be over here.
So does Eddie.
Well, I win sometimes.
What's the matter? What happened?
It's all right. She had a little too much to drink, that's all. Forget it. Go upstairs and sleep it off.
Well, we won't.
C'mon, Bert. Let me play him.
How much?
Sure.
You hustlin' me?
How do we stand?
'Bout even.
When do I raise the bet?
I don't know.
Bert, if that's his best game, I can beat him.
Level with me, Eddie. You ever play billiards before?
What's the difference? You got a pool cue, balls on the table. All you gotta do is get the feel of it.
I can beat him.
All right. Five hundred.
I'll beat him the next game.
How're the hands?
They're fine.
Well, rack up your cue. We're leavin'.
Hey, Bert. Wait a minute!
I said we're leavin'.
I can beat him, Bert. Now he suckered me 'cause he knows how to hustle. I didn't think he did. But I can outplay him. I can beat him.
I don't believe you, Eddie. I think you're still a loser.
All right, then. I'll play him with my own money.
Please don't get off me now.
I know when to quit. You don't. Win or lose, you don't know when to quit.
What do you want me to do, huh? What do you want me to do? Just say it and you got it but PLEASE don't get off me now.
I wanna walk.
It's a long walk.
I got time, Bert.
You want me to tell her for you?
Tell her what?
You gotta be hard, Eddie.
Eddie?... YOU OWE ME MONEY!
And just how do you figure that, Bert? What do you figure I owe you?
Half.
In Louisville it was seventyfive per cent.
Well, here it's half.
What if I don't pay ya, Bert?
You don't pay me? You gonna get your thumbs broken. And your fingers. And if I want them to, your right arm in three or four places.
So you figure you're still my manager, huh?
I'm a businessman, kid.
Well, you got a lot of games lined up for me?
Yeah, we're gonna make a lotta money together, from now on.
Fifty per cent?
No, it don't have to be fifty. It can be thirty... twentyfive.
We really stuck the knife in her, didn't we, Bert?
Aaaahhhh!
Boy, we really gave it to her good.
If it didn't happen in Louisville, it'd happened someplace else. If it didn't happen now, it'd happen six months from now. That's the kinda dame she was.
And we twisted it, didn't we, Bert? Course, maybe that doesn't stick in your throat cause you spit it out just like you spit out everything else. But it sticks in mine. I loved her, Bert. I traded her in on a pool game. But that wouldn't mean anything to you. Because who did you ever care about? Just win, win, you said, win, that's the important thing. You don't know what winnin' is, Bert. You're a loser. 'Cause you're dead inside, and you can't live unless you make everything else dead around ya.
Could be.
Well, Mr. Felson, maybe you could come out to my place some evening. We could play a few games of billiards.
We'll be there.
Good, good.
Oh, we'll start small... a hundred dollars a game.
You ever played billiards before?
I'm sure Mr. Felson knows what he's doing. Certainly you can afford a hundred dollars to find out.
Deal the cards.
How much?
Oh, about five hundred.
Do you really think you can beat him?
Of course he thinks he can beat me, Bert. He wouldn't be playing me if he didn't. Right, Felson?
I didn't ask him can he beat you. I already know he can beat you. I asked him will he? With Eddie, that's two different things.
Have you noticed, Bert? This fellow here bears a striking resemblance to you. It seems as though you might have modeled for the artist.
It's possible.
That seems a shame. The night is young.
The night is two thousand dollars old.
Will you take a check, Bert?
Cash.
How much do I owe you?
Twelve thousand.
You sure you going to be comfortable enough there, Miss... ah... ?
Packard. Sarah Packard.
It always takes me a little while to get a name fixed in my mind. Are you sure you don't want anything?
No, I'm fine.
You, uh, you ever been to Louisville during Derby week, Miss, ah, Packard?
I've never been to Louisville.
Lots of action. Lots of money. Lots of class. You'll see some of the bestdressed and most beautiful women in the world at the races. Knock your eye out.
I'm ready.
Soon as I finish my coffee.
What makes you know so much? How do you know what Eddie was thinking?
I know. Been there myself. We've all been there, haven't we, Miss Packard?
Doesn't your lighter work, Mr. Gordon?
Oh, I forgot all about it. How's the hands?
It's all right, Eddie. I'm sure Mr. Gordon meant no offense. It was a figure of speech.
That's right, Miss Packard.
And a fact is a fact.
She's a smart girl, Eddie.
Oh, wait a minute, Miss Packard.
We're neighbors now. You can call me Sarah.
I want to talk to you.
Do we need words?
Yeah, I think we do. We could try to cut each other up. But that would be bad for everybody. Bad for me, bad for you. And worst of all, be bad for Eddie.
You know what's good for him?
To win.
For whom and for what?
For what makes the world go round. For money, and for glory.
You didn't answer my first question. For whom?
All right. Today for me, tomorrow for himself.
No, there's no tomorrow. Not with you. You own all the tomorrows because you buy them today, and you buy cheap.
Well, nobody has to sell.
You bastard.
Listen, Miss Ladybird, you're here on a rain check and I know it. You're hanging on by your nails. You let that glory whistle blow loud and clear for Eddie and you're a wreck on a railroad track. You're a horse that finished last. So don't make trouble, Miss Ladybird. Live and let live. While you can.
I'll make it up to you.
How?
You tell me.
Are you ready for another?
Thank you.
In a little while. That's what you want, isn't it?
It's what Eddie wants. He, uh, told me to give you some money.
Put it on the bed. That's the way it's done, isn't it?
That's the way it's done.
And the way you're looking at me, is that the way you look at a man you've just beaten? As if you'd just taken his money, and now all you want is... his pride?
All I want's the money.
Sure, sure, just the money, and the aristocratic pleasure of seeing him fall apart. You're a Roman, Bert. You have to win them all.
Boys just passing through?
Yep.
Pittsburgh?
Mm hmm.
Comin' in or goin' out?
Goin' in. We got a sales convention. Gotta be there tomorrow.
What do you guys sell?
Thanks. Sure is a hot day for driving. Late afternoon is better. You guys have plenty of time. Make Pittsburgh in two, maybe three hours.
Hey, he's right! Whaddya say, Charlie, huh? Play a little pool? Wait out the heat?
About sixty, seventy bucks.
Next game, ten bucks.
Give me some bourbon. J. T. S. Brown.
You want a chaser?
No.
Hey, another one for me and another one for the lady.
Check!
You look different... More relaxed.
Give me a bottle of beer.
Right.
Huh?
It's open... What'll you have?
Wait!
Yes?
I saw you on CSpan. I've been looking for you for thirty years. Then there you were, such a beautiful, beautiful grown man.
Mother?
Yes... Derek.
It's a pleasure to meet you, mother. But I'm an ape like dad was... And I have to go back into the woods now... forever.
Yes, I suppose so. I suppose I knew that was going to be what you would say. It's good to see you again though.
Yes.
I'm in the book, if you ever want to drop me a line or something.
I'm an ape, mom. I'm an ape. And apes don't drop lines.
So anyway, that's the nightmare I've been having lately.
Do you suppose it has anything to do with Lila's unusually hairy body?
No, why?
Well, it seems that since Lila broached the subject of children, you've been on edge and I know you have an issue with the, uh, body hair.
Oh, I see. Yes, that's something to think about. That's very good. That's what you get the big bucks, right? Ha ha.
I just think it might be important to explore your feelings for Lila.
I love Lila. I mean, she's a wonderful person. And... she loves me! That's no small potatoes. I mean she really loves me. She's sacrificed so much to be in this relationship with me. And she's a good person. A truly good person. How rare is that in this world, eh? And how could I stop loving somebody because of a little physical imperfection, if it can even be called that. I mean, God knows I'm not perfect! What about my eyesight? It's lousy, that's what! Lila's not going to leave me because of my eyesight. What about my penis?
And how do you feel about Gabrielle?
Goodeveninglaydeesandgent elmen.
Bravo, Puff! Bravo!
Oh boy!
Now, Puff, we're leaving on the electronic collar. I don't think we'll need to shock you, but just in case.
Okay. That's fair.
This is great, Puff. You're doing fine.
I'm loving this. It's such a treat to be out and about. What a wonderful invention a city is. The immense buildings of glass and steel glinting in the afternoon sun, the smartly dressed women in their best summer frocks, the colorful street vendors.
I don't think this aversion therapy is really necessary, doctor. I understand the problem.
Humor me, Puff. It's essential that I am able to trust you to function independently in the world.
I bow to your expertise in these matters.
Lila?
Excellent work, Puff. Extra desert tonight.
Yahoo!
Tomorrow, the acid test.
Did I? I tried so hard! I really concentrated! Oh, I'm so happy!
And because you did so well, we have a little surprise for you.
Extra dessert?
Even better.
Free to come and go as you please. There's some "mad money" in the night table drawer.
It's wonderful! Do you think I'm ready? Do you really?
I trust that you'll make good, mature decisions. I trust that you'll do the proper thing.
Oh, I will! Your very trust has instilled an enormous sense of responsibility in me. I don't want to disappoint you.
Good. Remember, when in doubt: Don't ever do what you really want to do.
Got it.
Puff, why don't you say a few words to the assemblage.
It would be my pleasure, doctor. Distinguished gentlemen and ladies of the psychological community, I stand before you today, a living testament to the amazing skill of Dr. Nathan Bronfman. To say that he took me from crayons to perfume would be a vast understatement. Dr. Bronfman took me from playing with my own feces, then to crayons, and then to an appreciation of the complex works of Franz Kline, Joseph Beuys, and Marcel Duchamp. From compulsive masturbation to...
Thanks to you, Nate.
Thanks to you, Buddy. And your diligence and intelligence and perseverance.
And of course to you, my sweet, for your... moral support.
here, here.
Interesting.
Now, my diminutive friend, what can I do for you?
Ugnh.
Oh please, is that as articulate as you can be after all the time I spent teaching you? We've discussed Wittgenstein, for Christ's sake. Not that you ever had anything very original or challenging to say on the subject.
Unn.
Down from the tree. Both of you. Keep your hands where I can see them. Don't want you pulling any weapons out of your fur.
Puff, put the gun down.
Ounpoo. Ungh.
Let's be reasonable human beings here. We're all reasonable human beings, aren't we?
Unka unka unka unka unka.
Look, why don't you and Lila stay here and have your natural life. I'll just go on my way. You'll never see me again.
I have to talk. Is that okay?
You did create me in your image, Nathan. Before you I was a simple, happy, complete being, in harmony with the world around me. After you I became duplicitous, cynical, angry, anal, totally out of touch with my surroundings. In a word, Nathan, I became you. Lila has reintroduced me to myself. And, incidentally, what I'm about to do, kill you, is something that would never have occurred to me to do as a creature of the Earth. Before when I killed, it was for food or in selfdefense. Now I will kill for revenge. Revenge is an abstract concept, Nathan. And I learned abstract thinking from you.
No.
Meditations on a Banana Slug was a delightful read.
Thank you so much. I love slugs. All slugs, not just banana slugs.
As do I.
They're so even keel. They forge ahead with slow determination. They don't get distracted or sidetracked. They don't care what they look like. They don't care that people look at them and go, "Ewww. A slug."
They don't seem to be especially ego driven, this is true.
You've got to respect that.
I have to say that I'm not there yet.
Where?
Slugdom. Sluggishness. Whatever you'd call it. I'm not there yet. I still have many human characteristics.
That's not necessarily a bad thing.
Yes. I suppose not. But still. One would like to move along. To move beyond.
I'm not sure we can escape our natures. Believe me I've tried. I'm not even so sure anymore that we should want to.
I love that you said that. It makes me feel a bit lighter. I've been rather heavy lately. Thinking about my childhood. Realizing how much a product I am of my upbringing. I've been seeing someone. A therapist.
You are a therapist, right?
No no. I'm a psychologist, but I do research. I'm a behaviorist. I work with animals. Mice at the moment.
I hope you don't perform any of those dreadful torture experiments, Nathan.
Heavens no. My work now is... Right now I'm teaching mice... well, table manners, to be candid.
How's it going?
Quite well, really. It's a lot of work. A lot of reinforcement, mostly positive. Right now I've gotten two of my subjects to use napkins. Tiny napkins of course.
Paper or cloth?
I hope you don't think me daft. It's important work. It's part of a larger sociological experiment. I'm federally funded.
What's the larger experiment?
It's my thesis that if table manners can be taught to mice, they can be taught to humans.
Going out on a limb, aren't you, Nathan?
The truth is most people don't have table manners today. And when the foundations of civilized society crumble and disappear, civilized society in its entirely follows closely at its heels.
I'm not sure.
Courtesy, decorum, manners, are all sadly lacking from our daily intercourse. Rudeness, vulgarity, meanness are the norm.
We are animals after all.
Ergo if I can teach table manners to mice, I can teach them to humans. If I can teach table manners to humans, I can save the world.
It looks wonderful.
You look wonderful. I'm on top of the world tonight, Lila. Work is going splendidly and my personal life is ...
Ummmm. Oh Nathan, this salad is delish...
My God! The fork! The fork!
I'm sorry?
Tell her, Harold... It's just that... It's nothing. It's just that the outside fork is the salad fork. One goes from the outside in as the dinner progresses.
Oh, I'm sorry. I'm sorry, Nathan. I never really learned those things.
No biggie.
Boy, this is good!
I'm sorry that I became so upset.
No, I'm sorry. I'm really backward in certain areas.
It's only that I really enjoy your company and...
You do?
Yes, and...
You really enjoy my company?
Yes. Please don't talk with food in your mouth, Lila. Please. You're so pretty and it only mars your... I'm sorry. I'm being critical.
It's just that I have some peculiarities, and...
I like you, too, Nathan.
You do?
Yeah But I have some peculiarities also.
I don't care. I don't care! Like what, for example?
Actually, Mother and Father, you look very, very old. You look terrible.
Nathan!
What are you doing in there?
I'll be out in a minute.
I'm sorry about my parents.
You didn't seem sorry when you were laughing at all your mother's stupid, tasteless, cruel animal jokes.
I was simply attempting to keep the evening light. You know that I feel similarly to you about nature.
Do you?
Of course. I simply love the... naturalness of it all.
Do you? Oh do you, darling?
Why certainly!
Oh, darling. I'm so relieved. Let's celebrate with a long hike in the woods tomorrow!
That's a great idea.
It'll be wonderful! I'll show you my old stomping grounds!
Terrific. Can't wait!
Shaving cream?
I don't think so. Why?
Darling, did you bring the insect repellent lotion?
Yes, darling.
Oh, and the sun block?
Of course.
What SPF, sweetie?
Fifteen.
Perfectomundo! We are ready! Say, wouldn't it be wonderful to have an insect repellent lotion that also worked as a sun block? Think of all the time one would save.
Yes, darling.
I think I'll get Johannsen in chemistry on that. Oh! Did you bring the first aid kit?
Yes.
Flares?
Absolutely.
We could call it "Quit Bugging Me, Sunny." Get it? Sunny. Sunny.
That's very funny.
I love you so much.
Did you see that?
What?
I don't know. Something.
A deer?
No. Too... upright. Might've been a person.
It might behoove us to turn back at this point.
Come on.
If it's a person, why should we go see it? It's not like it's nature or anything. It's just a person. Sometimes people who live in the woods don't want to be seen. They live in the woods because they're antisocial, Lila. We have to respect that.
You'll catch cold. It's cold. What do you suppose he is, a survivalist?
I think he's feral.
Feral? Don't touch him! He might be diseased! He might... My God, rabies!
He looks perfectly fine.
I think we should go. Please. Before he wakes up and, I don't know, eats us, or whatever feral things do.
I don't understand you. This is fascinating and you just want to run away. I mean, here we have a human being totally uncontaminated by civilization, totally free, and all you want to do is run back to your...
Actually, I just had an amusing thought.
What?
Feral, huh? Totally uncontaminated?
Look at him. He doesn't understand English. He moves like an animal.
It's perfect!
Nathan, what the hell are you talking about?
Forget mice! Actually forget guinea pigs, cats, monkeys, and chimps also. I'm on to stage five: The human subject.
Oh no. You can't take him from his home, Nathan.
Don't you see? He's my Tabula Rasa, my Eliza Dolittle. He's my ticket to the top of the Behaviorist food chain. He's going to make me famous.
I won't allow you. It's wrong. He's happy here.
Is he, Lila? Is he happy living filthy and naked alone in this tick infested wilderness? Never to know the love of a good woman, never to revel in the pitterpatter of little feet, never to read Moby Dick, or marvel at a Monet, or just sit back after a day of hard but rewarding work, smoke a pipe, and wonder about the nature of reality.
You'd be taking away his freedom, Nathan.
Freedom's just another word for nothing left to lose, Lila, to quote Janet Jackson.
...what is it that makes us human, if not the knowledge that we are indeed human? Think of this poor soul's education as the greatest gift we could bestow upon...
All right.
Great. Grab his feet. We'll throw him in the trunk.
What are you doing in there?
Nothing. Be right out.
Who is it?
Uhhuh. Right, Gabrielle. Right.
Who is it?
Absolutely, Gabrielle. Someone from work! Sorry about that, Gabrielle. Uhhuh. Exactly.
Who from work?
Excuse me one second, would you, Gabrielle?
It's hormonal, Nathan. I can't help it. I'm sorry.
Your entire body?
I'm getting electrolysis. It's working, but it takes time. So meanwhile I have to...
You have to shave? Like an ape?
Apes don't shave, you son of a bitch!
Don't quibble. You know what I mean.
I'm sorry. Please don't be mad at me for this.
Mad? I'm I'm... disgusted!
I'm the same person I was before you knew, damn it! Oh God!
I have to think! I have to think!
Was that okay? I mean, was I able to... satisfy you?
You are an animal.
Really? Wow! That's that's terrific to hear from someone so... feminine, so female.
I love being female because it, how do you say, allows me to be close to men.
I'm glad you're female. Do you think our boy witnessed the primal scene?
So, how's it going today?
Good. Making progress.
Honey, can we talk tonight? You know, about stuff? Things have been so strained for the past three weeks, since you know, and I just want to talk.
Everything's fine, honey. We don't need to talk. Besides I have to work late.
Please, Nathan. I really need this. You've been working late a lot.
Are you seeing somebody else, Nathan? I just have to know.
Of course not.
It would just be helpful to know.
No.
Because, you know, you seem so distant. And you work late every night. And we hardly ever have sex, and when we do, it's... I don't know. It feels different.
I'm just preoccupied.
Do you like my new look?
Yeah. It's nice. It's really good.
I'm trying, you know. I'm trying to be what you want. I want to be what you want, Nathan. All I want is to be what you want.
Shh. It's okay. It's okay, Lila. You're what I want. You know that. You're exactly what I want.
Really?
Sure. Of course.
Because I'm really trying, you know. Rosie says maybe only another two years of the elctrolysis.
That's great.
I've signed up for a ballet class. And look at my nails! A real girl!
That's great. It's a great color for you.
Oh, Nathan, let's have a baby!
Oh! I didn't see you there, sneaky boy! You're like a boy sneaking in...
...the back door of a movie theater. Yes, indeed.
You remember that from my book? I'm touched! What's wrong?
Nothing. Hard day. Gonna have a drink.
I'll make it. I'm so happy, Nathan! Everything's going to be so great! Scotch on the rocks, right? Just kidding. I know what you drink, mister. I know what you drink. Voila!
How's work?
Cruddy, okay? Are you satisfied?
No. I don't want your work to be cruddy.
My assistant quit today. Okay? He was highly valuable to the project.
Oh, baby. I'm sorry. Can't you hire somebody else?
I guess.
Hey! I could come work for you! I know I haven't been all that supportive of this project, but I've come around.
Have you?
Oh yes, baby! I think that this is a wonderful project you're doing, taking this poor unfortunate, uncivilized creature and turning him into a human being! What a wonderful wonderful compassionate man you are!
Really?
Yes! And I want to help. You won't have to pay me, and I was thinking of giving up that crazy nature writing anyway.
How come?
Who needs it? I have you and I have being a woman and I have thinking about womanly things! I love being a woman because...
Such as what womanly things?
Such as my man and how to please him! Such as making wonderful dinners for my man! Such as looking pretty for my man! And I'm writing an article on quilting for the Ladies Home Journal!
I had sold my fucking soul.
I let her sell her soul. I stood by as she did it. It's inexcusable. At the time though I thought it might help.
Bravo to you, Puff!
That was wonderful!
I think he's ready.
Oh boy!
You just have to control it. We're not apes.
Thank you very much for that.
Puff, I'm proud of you! You did remarkably well under difficult circumstances.
Absolutely!
I'm going to go down and check on Puff. See how he's holding up.
Should I come with?
Nah. You just relax. How's the book?
Ummm. It's good.
You were gone a long time.
Yeah. Puff and I got into a big, philosophical discussion. He's really quite well read, considering he's only been literate for a month now. He's going to make us famous, Lila.
So he's doing okay?
Seemed fine. Quiet evening enjoying his new digs.
That's funny because, you know, I just went and picked him up at some flophouse on the lower eastside. He called here when he ran out of his "mad" money after spending an entire evening drinking, watching strippers, and fucking a whore! Oh, and what did you do tonight, honey?
Shit.
And what did you do tonight, honey?
I've fallen in love with somebody else, Lila.
And what did you do tonight, honey?
I fucked her! Okay? I fucked her. I'm sorry. But that's what the hell I did.
Do you know what I gave up to be with you?
Yes.
I gave up my soul, my beliefs. I gave up my body hair!
Yeah, well, I'm sorry. The human heart is a strange thing.
How the hell would you know anything about the human heart?
Lila...
Shut up! Yeah, this is Lila, cunt. And don't let the hirsutism fool you. I know more about being a woman, and more about the black hearts of men than you, in your pretty little powdered, bullshit fantasy world, can ever imagine. I know the darkness and cruelty of nature, sweetie pie.
Lila, you don't intend to hurt us, do you?
Eat shit, thumbtack dick! Thank you, Frank. You're the best.
Aha! Finally. I've covered almost the entire seaboard and parts of eastern Ohio.
Ugnh.
Look at you two. You both disgust me.
Oook. Oook.
Shut up! I gave you... life. I created you in my image, Puff. I took you from this primordial ooze and brought you into the world of culture and art and manners. And this is how you repay me? By heading back to the ooze first chance you get? I should leave you here with Lila the ape woman. It would serve you right, you ungrateful piece of crap. But I'm not going to. You're too valuable to me. Totally selfish of me. You serve my purpose. But if you had any smarts you would realize that I serve your purpose as well. Life is so much more delightful when lived in a silk suit.
Ooka.
Don't worry, Lila. You can stay. I don't have any interest in you anymore. C'mon, monkey boy.
Progress!
Ouch. Yeah?
Oh yes, honey. Getting to be smooth smooth smooth all over. Smooth as a baby's butt.
I love it, Rose. I'm getting to be a real girl.
You still in the market for a real boy?
Always. Ow.
Cause there's this guy. My brother knows him. Might be right up your alley.
Tell me. I could use someone up my alley.
I don't get that. Is that sexual?
Shut up and tell me.
Handsome, thirties, psychologist...
Loves animals? Ouch. Must love animals, Rose.
Loves animals. Loves you.
What do you mean?
Somehow it came up that you were a friend of mine. Mr. handsome, animal loving psychologist said he would love to meet you.
Holy shit. Your brother didn't tell him about the nature of our relationship, did he?
My brother is discreet.
Won't he be able to tell?
My brother says the guy's a thirty five year old virgin, so maybe he won't know how women usually feel. Plus he's got bad eyesight, almost legally blind, which is helpful in this situation. Plus he's got an extremely small penis, of which he is "mortifyingly ashamed", so chances are he'll be so grateful for any non judgmental attention, that he'll be yours forever.
God, he must be really close to your brother to tell him such personal stuff.
Yeah, well my brother is his shrink.
So?
I really like him, Rose. He's so... ...passionate about his work.
My brother says he likes you, too.
Really?
Yeah. Says he likes you even more than he likes his own mother. And according to my brother Nathan's abormally close with his mother.
My brother says things are going really well between you and Nathan.
I cannot believe how in love I am with this man.
Yeah?
He's so cute. I even like his cute little penis. It's like a little pig's penis or something. Rose, we connect on every level. I've finally found someone I can feel completely safe with.
Don't throw that away. I had that once with a guy. But I threw it away for a cheap thrill.
One night stand?
No. I married a midget.
Marrying a midget was a cheap thrill?
Well he wasn't really a midget. He was on the cusp of midgethood. That's what made it cheap. Had he been an actual midget, there would've been nothing cheap about it, my dear.
I didn't know you were into that sort of thing.
Let me tell you, honey, midgets are the best kept secret in male companionship. They're portable. They're controllable. They're eager. And they're exactly the right height for a little covert oral fun on the dance floor.
I have a friend you might like to meet.
Oh?
Three foot one.
Be still my crotch.
Rose, Nathan's no midget, but he's asked me to move in with him.
Yeah. My brother told me.
And I think I'm going to.
Stand on a stepladder sometimes.
No maid service! For God's sake, can't you read the fucking "do not disturb" sign on the fucking doorknob?
Lila, it's Rosie.
Go the fuck away, Rosie.
Please, honey, let me in.
Rose, please go away.
Lila, I want to help you.
How'd you know where I was?
Nathan told my brother.
Your brother should have his license revoked.
Yeah, although I'm not going to turn him in. I like hearing the dirt.
Why didn't your brother tell you that Nathan was having an affair?
I don't know, honey. I don't know. Maybe he just didn't want to get involved.
Oh, Rosie.
Let's get you out of here. Come stay with me until you get your strength back. Free electrolysis, if you want it! We'll get that face of yours cleared up in no time.
Done!
Ready!
Uh, tie them up, Rosie. If you will.
With pleasure.
I'm going to miss you.
Oh, Rosie.
And I'm going to miss the lifestyle having you as a client has afforded me.
Shut up, you.
I like you so much, with or without hair. But don't spread that around. Bad for business.
I'm really glad you two found each other.
I'll be in touch.
No you won't. But it's okay. You have stuff you gotta do.
My apologies, madam.
It's okay, Puff.
Shan't happen again.
It shan't happen again. I swear it. I'm just getting my sea legs, you know.
It's an animal urge, Puff. It's nothing to be ashamed of.
Very well.
Very well.
We're going back to nature, you and I. I'm going to retrain you. I'm going to make you free again if I have to kill you doing it.
But I like being human now.
You what?
I want to be the way I was before.
Good. I'll show you how, apey.
Nice night.
Talking is to be kept to a minimum. Eventually, when we are ready, there will be none. Language was invented so that people could lie to each other and to themselves. There is no other reason.
You'll thank me eventually, Puff. Well, you won't thank me, because we won't be speaking, but you'll sort of thank me with a special look, the look a dog gives you to let you know he loves you.
What an enchanting picture you paint of our future together.
He's dead.
We bury the body. We disappear into the woods. Nobody knows.
No. This is the end of the road. There's a dead human being here. For all of his faults, he was a human being, and certainly a victim of his culture as much as anybody.
Forget him, Lila. We'll disappear. We'll never talk about it again. We'll never talk again period. I love you.
Puff, what happened to you is as much my fault as Nathan's. Maybe more so, because I knew it was wrong and I went along with it anyway. I'm taking responsibility for the murder. I want you to go back to your old life.
I won't let you do that. I shot the bastard. And I'm glad.
No. Go back to the woods. This is a sacrifice I need to make. In my world we have something called penance. It's another abstraction, but I had the concept drummed into my head during my years in the convent. It doesn't exist for you, and it shouldn't. See, I could never be free again anyway, so I might as well be in jail.
Then I'll live for both of us, Lila. I'll be the most free, truest animal in the whole forest. For both of us.
That's what I'm counting on.
But first I'll live among them, just long enough to testify before congress about the waywardness of humankind.
Okay. If you think it will help.
Only three shocks. A chimp takes fifteen. This is going to be tres simple, no, Gabrielle?
Oui, doctor, oui.
Good morning... We need a name for him, don't we?
Oui.
You decide. Today is your day.
Really? My day? Well, I had a sweet little mongrel puppie named Puff when I was a girl. This one reminds me of my dog, all shaggy! So cute! I loved my doggie very much, monsieur.
Puff it is then. Puff Bronfman. Is that okay?
Oui. Perfect!
Good morning, Puff Bronfman. I'm Dr. Bronfman and this is my assistant Gabrielle. We're your mommy and daddy while you are here.
Oh, Hi, Gabrielle.
Hi. I just wanted to tell you that I very much enjoy working with you. Now I'm embarrassed that I say this.
No. Don't be. I really enjoy hearing that. You're a terrific assistant.
Merci. I... Do you... would you like to go get a cup of coffee, perhaps?
Well, I don't know. I'm actually on my way to...
Now I am truly embarrassed. Forgive me. I should not have asked such a stupid question. I know you are a very important man and...
No. Don't be silly. It's just...
I am a foolish little thing. I am pink in my face, no? It is only that I have been so lonely lately and... I am ashamed. I'll see you tomorrow, okay? Unless... Am I fired now?
Thank you so much for accompanying me.
Not at all.
I have had such a difficult time in my personal life and you seem to be such a nice man... but I'm talking too much again, no?
Of course not.
You're so sweet. Oh, why are there not more men out there like you?
Listen, you're the best assistant I've ever had... Gabrielle.
I like it when you say my name. Is that stupid?
Oh, Doctor. I did not know. I'm sorry to disturb you. I just came for some papers I left.
Gabrielle. No, I'm sorry if I startled you. I came to think. God, Did I hang up on you?
Oui. Perhaps I called at a bad time. I am sorry.
No. I just got distracted. I'm so sorry.
Is everything fine?
Oui. Now you've got me talking French.
I was in my p.j.'s when I remembered I left some papers I need to go over. See? I rushed right out of the house. I must look a mess. I'm so embarrassed.
I'm in my p.j.'s, too. Funny, huh?
Coincidence, yes? And how is our son?
Our...? Oh! He seems fine. I guess we woke him. The lights and all.
I should turn them off. Maybe I sing him a lullaby my mama sang to me when I was a little girl.
When you were a little French girl?
Oui.
That would be good.
Shall we close up, then?
Maybe we should just sit for a while. It's very peaceful.
It's nice, yes. I'm glad I ran into you, both in our silly pajamas. It is two happy coincidences, no?
Yes. Happy happy.
Yet you look so sad. A great man like you should not be sad.
I'm fine. Life is funny, that's all.
I am sleepy.
I shouldn't say this, but you're pretty, Gabrielle. It's unprofessional, I know.
Really? I always think myself so ugly. No, not ugly, but plain. A wallflower.
Really? No. Not at all. You're a very pretty girl. You should know that. You should be confident.
Thank you so much. Merci. It's very wonderful to hear a man say such a nice compliment.
It's true. I wouldn't lie.
You are sweet.
So soft. So smooth. I'm sorry. It's just...
Shh.
What is wrong, my darling?
Nothing, my darling. All is right with the world.
Dr. Bronfman's line. Yes. One moment please. Lila.
Shit. Hi, honey.
Yeah. Okay. Be home around seven. Bye. What? I'm sorry. What was I supposed to do?
I don't know, Nathan. What are you supposed to do?
You don't abandon somebody because they have a physical problem.
Funny. I thought that's exactly what you did. You just don't have the courage to admit it to yourself.
Isn't Puff doing spectacularly, honey?
Hmmmph.
Gabby, what is it?
Hmmph. Hmmph. Nathan, we have to talk, you and I.
Fine.
Not in front of the boy.
Very well.
My little French.
Stop. Get away.
What is it?
You have to choose Nathan. It's like Sophie's choice. Only it is Nathan's choice. Did you ever see that movie, Sophie's Choice? It is like that. Only it is this.
Gabby, you know I'm trying to sort things out.
No! It is now that you must decide. I love you, Doctor Nathan... ...but I will not wait. I will not be your chippy. I will not be your little Mademoiselle Parlezvous side dish. My love. I want to have a sweet tiny baby inside my belly... from you.
I love you so much, Gabrielle.
But?... But? There is a "but," Nathan.
But I don't know how to leave Lila.
You were wonderful today, darling. Such authority with the apeman boy. It made me so hot for you.
Unnhh.
The way you are taming him, it sends chills down my girlish spine and... everywhere else, too.
Urgh.
Take me, darling! Tame your little monkey of love!
Yeah? What?
Hi. It's Nathan.
Call you back. You bastard! What do you want?
I just want to talk.
We have nothing to say! You are a rotten bastard, that's what!
Please. Just one minute of your time.
Why? You've made your decision, Mister Stinky American! Now I hate you! No, I don't hate you; I don't even think about you!
I've got some things to tell you.
Like what?
Well, I think it would be easier if I could talk to you in person.
What for?
Well, I think...
You think too much. I need a man who doesn't think so much but acts more than he thinks... is what I need!
What?
You heard me! You make me sick when you pretend to not understand what I am saying to you! Go away from here!
Well, look, I'm sorry to have bothered you.
Well?
God, you're beautiful.
Please. I look a mess.
No. You look so beautiful.
Anyway. Come already to the point.
I'm... I'm going to leave Lila. I can't stop thinking about you.
I've moved on.
No!
I've been seeing Johannsen in chemistry.
That goddamn Neanderthal? I'm the one who gave him the idea for the combination bug spraysun screen! Did you know that?!
That's not how he tells it.
Of course not, that Swedish thief! He's a thief of hearts! I love you, Gabrielle.
Hunh.
Just give me some time to let Lila down easily. She's a really nice girl and I don't want to hurt her more than is necessary.
You hurt me, you know, when you made Nathan's Choice. Does that not even matter to you, you pig?
You were wonderful!
Was I? I wasn't a tad stiff?
Don't be silly! And you were wonderful, too! I loved the way you said " au revoir."
So we've got seventeen new bookings for speaking engagements, my wonderful men.
Terrific. We're all going to be rich and famous.
Lila?
That's Lila?
A penny for your thoughts, mon cheri.
I don't know. Something's missing.
Yes, please, somebody ask him what is wrong.
I don't know.
I want our boy back.
Oui.
That bitch. I worked so hard. We worked so hard, you and I. He would've made us famous.
We still have you and I.
I know. And that's great. But it would be great in a better way, not a better way but a different way, if I could find him and bring him back.
Where do we look for little lost Puff?
I have some thoughts. I think that hairy bitch is somewhere trying to turn him back into an ape.
That is horrible. Apes are dirty. No?
You better believe they're dirty! And smelly! And messy! And they don't know their forks from their assholes!
I'm going alone. This could be dangerous.
Okay, my sweet. Good night.
A little resistance would be nice, damn it.
Please let me go with you.
No.
Okay.
Hello, my little boy.
Hey, ma. Did you bring any clothes? I'm freezing my ass off.
Oui. Nathan's silk suit, just like you asked.
Great. God, I've wanted you forever.
Say my name.
Gabrielle.
You remind me so much of Nathan.
Like father, like son.
You remind me so much of Nathan plus so much of my little mongrel doggie.
Woof.
As much as I loved Nathan, I'm not sorry she killed him, if it means I can have you. Is that a terrible thing to say, my sweet?
Hush. No, it is never terrible to be in love. Nathan's memory lives on in our sacred union. I'm not sorry she killed him either. Nathan was wonderful. He was erudite and sophisticated and charming. You are all that, too. But you have something more. You have a bit of the animal in you.
Let's go eat, I'm starved.
French?
Oui.
Lila, what are you doing in there? I need to get ready for my date.
Nothing! I'll be out in a minute!
I don't know why you didn't tell me about this.
It's embarrassing, okay?
It's not so bad. So, it just keeps growing?
Yeah, Natalie. It's hair. It grows.
Well, don't jump down my throat. I'm just trying to help.
How is that helping, Natalie? How exactly?
Look, if you're going to be like that... You should be appreciative that I'm interested.
Why, because I'm a freak and you are beautiful, and you are being nice enough to come down to my freak, nonbeautiful level and act concerned about my repulsive troubles?
You're fucked up, Lila. Why don't you fucking try electrolysis or something? Figure it out for chrissake.
And furthermore... Tell him, Harold.
Uh... We must never act like apes, son. For you see, The ape is our closest biological relative  specifically the pygmy chimp. A single chromosome separates us. But you know what truly separates us from the apes, what makes us better than apes?
That is the wrong fork, young man. Harold, tell the boy.
That is the wrong fork, young man.
Harold! Tell the boy again.
No "buts." Go to your room now.
And?
And think about what you've done.
Tell him, Harold.
Son, your mother and I are doing a production of The Gin Game at the local community theater. We forgot to take off our makeup.
Tell him, Harold.
It's going famously, son, famously!
Well, let's go see if the nut that runs this place can help us.
Right.
Boss, the way I see it is these kids probally stop off somewhere, bought a bunch of booze and are off getting shitfaced.
I hope you're right, but my guts are telling me different.
Your Spidey senses tingling.
Yeah... ...huh, what the hell are you talking about?
You know, your hyper sensitive Spidey senses... like Spiderman... ...you know, like in the comics.
How old do you think I am? I know who the fuck Spiderman is. Get to your point.
You know, his senses start tingling... when he was approaching danger and shit.
I always favored the Hulk.
Hulk was dumb as shit.
Aw, fuck.
What.
Plates match.
Call the chief... We found 'em.
You sure this guy's supposed to ride with us? Seems kind of weird.
Chief said pick him up and take him with us on our house to house. Guy's an excop, thinks he can help.
Sounds like a bad idea to me, probally just get in the way.
Yeah, well I guess it's tough to sit on the sidelines and wait when your own kid's missing... besides, ain't no such thing as an excop.
I guess not.
That must be him.
Yeah it's horseshit, just some boogieman crap that the kids like to scare each other with.
Anyway, there's not much else out that way... so, I figure maybe there's a chance the kids broke down and found their way over to one of the farms.
Don't worry, we'll find her.
Let's hit the road, sooner we get a move on sooner we'll find her.
I'm gonna see if anybody's home. You and Mr. Willis take a look around the grounds for any sign of anything.
Right... ...come on.
Wydell.
Excuse me for a second.
Over.
We found one.
Mr. Willis?
Yes, sir.
I'm Wydell... this is Naish.
Well, we were on our way out to run a check on a couple farmhouses out on the edge of town... closest thing we got to a lead at this point.
That's it?
Well, all we know is the kids were headed out to a spot the locals call Deadwood to play Nancy Drew with some local legend about this character everybody calls Dr. Satan.
Dr. Satan?
What about the body you found?
Oh, yeah, you know about that? Hmmm, that's a strange one.
Her part in this I can't figure... but I will.
Christ, you know it's crazy... I lived through so many other people's nightmares, you know. Always cool and calm, but... but I never thought I'd be the one needing help, ya know?
I'm sure there's a logical explanation.
I pray to God there is.
Hey.
George Willis... ...any leads?
Local girl, Karen Murphy, been missing for a couple months, figured for a runaway.
Fit the profile?
No, not really. Good kid, never been in any trouble.
Christ, four kids couldn't just disappear.
No they couldn't, somebody had to see something.
My Denise is a smart girl, she wouldn't do anything stupid, and her boyfriend, he always seemed like a good kid.
Turn up this road.
Where we headed?
Shit, don't these packrat hillbillies throw anything away?
Shhhh... you hear that?
Yeah, I hear it... where's it coming from?
Over here, inside the smokehouse.
We gotta break it open.
I ain't got a warrant.
Tell it to my daughter.
Shit... fuck procedure.
Jesus Christ.
Call Wydell.
Fuck, go to the car... call for backup. Tell 'em officer down.
Right.
Grampa... watch the language.
I ain't sure that you really need to know. It's better you go home still dreaming about your kitty cats and puppy dogs.
Otis! Otis! Come quick, there's cops outside.
What! God damn, how many?
I don't know. I only saw one.
I'm sure there's more than that... fucking pigs always travel in packs... ...here, take this.
What should I do?
Go down stairs and play nice... I'm a gonna go 'round back and handle things like I always fucking do.
I'm the one who brings the devil's brandy...
Who's your Daddy!
Yes! I'm the one who beats you when you're bad...
Get in... now!
Wait, I want to say goodbye.
That's true, Otis... not that we're having a bad time, but...
Well, go get her.
Well hello, officer.
Excuse me, I'm sorry for disturbing you this fine afternoon.
Aw, you ain't disturbing me, but it kind of looks like rain, don't ya think?
My name is Lt. Wydell, I'd like to ask you a few questions.
Questions? Well, heck, I'll tell you anything you want to know.
I appreciate your cooperation. I'm looking for a missing girl... ...this girl here, Denise Willis... have you seen her?
Well, I... mmmmm... no, I ain't seen her, sorry.
Please, could I please come in and talk to you for a minute? Maybe you could take a better look at the picture... might stir up something.
I um... no, I don't think so...
Please, just a minute.
Oh, alright... I guess I can trust you... being a man of the law and all.
Thank you.
Oh, you are very welcome... Lord knows how I love a man in uniform.
Think... do any of these kids look familiar in any way?
No, I can't say that I ever seen 'em before... ...he looks familiar, is he on TV?
Why? Why are you doing this?
Doing what? Messy up your day? Well, fuck lady there are some bigger issues at hand... than your fucking have a nice fucking day bumper sticker shit!
Where's Bill?
Well, Bill... he's a good guy, he's been great help to me... a real blessing... I couldn't have asked for a better specimen. I mean you don't know what a dry spell I've had, total block... ...total block... but Bill he's OK.
Where is he?
Let's go see.
Behold... The FishBoy!
This can't be real, this can't be real, this can't be real.
Oh, it's real... as real as I want it to be, mamma... ...look, see the magic in my brush strokes.
Fuck you, you fucking freak!
Oh, come now... we're all creatures of God and freaks in our own way... ...but if you'll notice... right here, needs a little something, heh?
What are you doing? ...no, stop... please, please.
You, my dear worm feeder, are about to become immortalized.
Oh, I get it... I guess you think you're too good for the simple pleasures of Halloween.
No, just a little too old.
Oh really, well I hope something changes your mind some day.
I know you're my guests and welcome but I'd please advise you to keep from cussing while in my house, thank you.
Sorry.
Well, even though I know it seems childish to you all. Tonight is Halloween eve and it special to us so you are all invited to stay for dinner.
I suggest you kids leave now.
Don't worry, I'm gone.
I'm gonna go ask him.
Aw, come on Jerry. We've gotten all we're gonna get out of this place and its starting to rain.
Shit, it is only sprinkling and it's worth the trouble. Hold on for two seconds.
We hit the jackpot! Let's roll, good buddy. We got ourselves a convoy.
Huh?
Just back up.
I think we should go straight. I mean we know for a fact there ain't nothing back that way, right?
I'll go. It's my fault.
You said it, not me.
God damn it, I must be fucking crazy to let him go off with that crazy fucking bitch.
Huh?
That stupid hillbilly slut.
Oh, don't blow everything out of proportion.
You didn't see the look she threw me. She's up to something.
Hold on, hold on! Everybody calm down! It's the tow truck guy.
What!
OK lassies, I think it's time you get to gripping reality.
Enough with the stupid voices.
This is way too fucked up for words.
I know the words... fucking psycho fucking bullshit, that's the words.
I'm with Denise, can't we just walk to someplace, this is getting fucking stupid.
Negative. Shit, we are so deep in the sticks we could walk for hours and find zero.
Hey, maybe the guy with the tow truck could drive us to a phone.
His name is Rufus, Rufus Jr., but we all call him R.J.
Oh, right.
What do they call you, sweety?
Um, I'm Jerry... that's Bill... Denise and Mary.
So, what brings you kids way out here, ain't you got something better to do for Halloween than wander around out here in the sticks?
Well, I thought I'd maybe take in a hoedown.
Oh, really... ...well, I'm a pretty good dancer if you know what I mean... I bet I got a few moves you ain't never seen.
I don't doubt that.
And I'm gonna help put the razor blades in the candy apples.
I'll bet you are... you are a naughty little thing aren't ya.
I was just kidding.
Great. I thought I felt a certain attraction between Mary and Tiny soon as he walked in.
Maybe. He's a real lady killer.
Didn't ya think, Mary?
I've been meaning to ask you, Mrs... Ummmm.
Firefly.
Firefly... mmmmm odd name. Mrs. Firefly, do you know anything about the legend of Dr. Satan?
For the show. It's Halloween eve and time for our show.
Oh, you mean on TV.
No, no, no it's so much more special than that... you'll see, you'll be the first to ever see. I think this is something you'll really love.
Great.
Bye sweety, we could of been great together.
Please, let us go, we won't tell anybody.
Aw, honey you know I can't do that.
What'd ya got there?
Keys.
Well Christ boy, don't stand there like a prize dog dick with his butthole caught up a tree.
Huh?
Open up the trunk.
Yes, sir.
What'd we here, Georgie?
A vehicle registered to a William S. Hudley.
Holy Jesus, somebody had themselves a field day beating the shit outta this thing.
Yeah, no mercy here.
Recover any bodies?
Not yet.
Shit, I wonder what these kids did to bring this much hell down on 'em.
Just in the wrong place at the wrong time.
That's the understatement of the year.
Yep, I suppose it is.
God damn.
You find something, Georgie?
Yep, I found something.
Come on sleeping beauty, time to go to work.
Sleeping.
Rise and shine.
No please, let me sit this one out.
Let's go. You're the one who wanted to be a photographer.
I resign.
Too late. You're in for life, let's move it out Private Shutterbug.
Christ, I hope this isn't more crappy folk art. It's so quaint... it's so primal... it's so crap.
Aw, it ain't crap... it's... cute. ...and really who are we to judge the artistic merit of the tincan Mona Lisa?
Aw, shit... I gotta pee anyway.
I swear I've aged five years since this trip started.
Tell me about it.
God, I hate falling asleep in the afternoon. Now I'll be up all night... ...ugh, my back is killing me.
Yeah, hey how far do you think we are from your Dad's?
It will be nice to have a few days off to regenerate. This trip is fun, but it's starting to get brutal.
Yeah, I hit burn out mode back at that old stripper lady's place. Watching her dance around with those rattylooking animals was ridiculous.
I know, that was some crazy shit. I never in a million years would have believed it if I hadn't seen it.
A decent meal every once in a while wouldn't hurt either, this road food is crap.
If I never eat at another Waffle House again, I can die a happy girl.
Scattered, smothered and covered.
Exactly... well, I guess a couple more photos won't kill me.
Geez, he never gets tired does he.
Never. I swear to God he never sleeps, he goes to bed after me, wakes up before me. He's always working on 10.
Maybe he's a cyborg.
Let's just skip it. It is probably nothing anyway.
Aw Christ, Jerry. We can't see anything now, it's too dark. Let's forget it.
Stick her in the front, if you want to pick her up so bad. She's soaked.
She looks like she stinks.
Don't even say it.
You got to be fucking joking.
God damn it, I knew this witchhunt was fucking bullshit.
I think I'm going fucking crazy.
I can't believe...
She said we look like pussy lickers or some shit like that.
Yeah, she said we looked queer.
How long has it been?
I don't know... about half an hour.
What was that?
What? I didn't hear anything.
Wait... quiet. Turn off the radio.
I don't hear anything.
Shhhhhh, quiet.
I still don't.
Turn on the headlights. See if anything is out there.
Jesus Christ.
I think I'm gonna have a fucking heart attack.
Excuse me, may I please use your phone?
Bill, why don't you ask her... she's your special friend.
A couple hours!
Can't Tiny drive us to a phone?
Don't be such a fucking smart ass.
Yeah, it's really your fault that we're stuck in this shithole in the first place.
Hello... ...hey Denise... what, what's wrong, did you break down?
No, nothing like that... yeah, we're gonna be a little late. We stopped for gas at this place called Capt. Spaulding's outside of Ruggsville and it turned into a whole thing, so we're kind of behind schedule.
Oh yeah, yeah I've driven by that place before. I seem to remember a crabby old bastard in a crummy clown suit running the place.
Yeah, well he's still here. I think him and Jerry are fast becoming buddies, you know Jerry... yeah, he's gotta see everything... yeah, I know... thinks there's some unsolved mystery around every corner.
Well, don't take too long, the kids are already knocking down the door demanding their sugar fix... I know, I know I forgot to mention that Halloween falls on a school night, so they're trick or treating tonight... I got the joint decked out this year, built a graveyard in the front yard like when you were a kid.
Hopefully I can move things along here and make up the lost time by speeding all the way home... yes, Dad I'm kidding.
Well, just promise me you'll be careful... alright, alright see ya soon... goodbye.
Huh?
Grab Mary and come inside.
Great, you're back. Let's go. We already paid for the tickets.
Tickets for what?
This isn't everything. Get ready for this... there's a Museum of Murder and Mayhem.
I don't want to see that.
Aw, come on. It will be fun.
Oh yeah, murder museum... sounds fun.
Ugh, what's that smell?
Fried chicken. Anybody want some?
Hey, maybe she knows where this is?
That seems likely.
Fuck, it's freezing.
Hey, listen to this... I think this is related to our Dr. Satan.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah, in this book there's a chapter called Self Made Freaks about how people would mutilate themselves in order to work in a freak show. It mostly talks about tattooed people and wild men of Borneo and shit like that, but there is one mention of a single case where a woman was suspected of having her arms removed on purpose to become an armless wonder.
Yeah, so how does that fit with the story of four morons with a flat tire looking for a dead tree?
It says, "records show that Ellie Thompson was born in 1914 of normal physical stature and lived a life of normal bearings, until such time that she was placed in the care of the Willows State Mental Facility."
So.
Now she was put in the nuthouse in 1930 at the age of 16.
Why?
Blah, blah, blah... it doesn't say, but she was released sometime in 1937, only to reappear as Ellie Bogdan, the armless wonder. Says she, "crisscrossed the United States constantly in carnivals and freak shows until her death in 1946."
Yeah?
These dates perfectly correspond with the time frame of our beloved Dr. Satan working at the looney bin. I'll bet he amputated her arms.
So what?
I don't know, I just thought it was interesting.
You know what Jerry, who really cares at this point?
I don't... ...I just thought it was weird.
Yeah, Jerry, she said some pretty fucked shit to us.
When?
When you were outside with Bill.
Hey, nice outfit Billy Bob.
Thanks for coming to get us. Little brother almost scared us to death.
Dude, your chick's a little high strung.
Thank you.
Yes, thank you. Thank you very much.
Really, now is not the time to make waves.
Hey, I'm just waiting for Cousin Itt to show up.
Shhhhhh.
What are you laughing at?
I don't know, I think he's funny.
This isn't funny, it's twisted.
You gotta be kidding me. This chick is wasted.
Shhhhhh.
We've got get out of here, we got get out of here.
Think, think. Try to open the lid, try to kick a hole in the wood.
I can't... I can't move my arms. I hurt so much.
I know, but we can make it out of here. We can do it.
That was good babe, just keep doing that.
That's not me. I didn't... I'm not doing that.
Someone is out there... ...help, we're in here!
Help, help us.
Huh? Oh, hi. You really don't have a phone?
No, none. I had one once, back in '57 maybe... I don't know. Really ain't nobody we wanna be jaw flapping at around here no more.
No, he's just joking. We don't really have any plans other than spending the night at my Dad's house... ...which is where we were headed when our car broke down.
That's nice.
Yeah, I guess I'll just help him hand out candy to the trick or treaters.
How long is that gonna take?
He should be back in a couple hours.
Tiny ain't got no car, he ain't even got a bicycle.
How's he get around out here?
You sure you don't need any help in there?
No dear, I'm fine. Now what kind of host would I be if I put my guests to this kind of work.
You'll have to forgive Tiny, he can't hear so much.
Oh.
Yeah, my poor baby. It's his Daddy's fault. I mean Earl was a good man... I mean he never hit me or nothing, but one day he just got up and went pure devil on us all.
What happened? Oh, I'm sorry, it's none of my business.
He tried to burn the house down, said it was possessed by the spirits. Tiny was sleeping in the basement where the fire started. I don't think Earl ever meant to harm us... but Tiny was badly burnt, his ears were destroyed and most of his skin.
I... I got back a stack today. Some nice shots. See, a good topless June Wilkinson... unfortunately she personalized it... to Stucky, love June.
Hmmmmm.
Shit, this ain't worth nothing now that my name gotten all over it. I was a fixin' on trading it to Jackie Cobb.
The retard over at Molly's fruit stand.
Yeah, he's all hot on her after he found some of his dad's old nudie books hidden in the basement. He keeps 'em taped inside his school workbook.
Fascinating.
That kid is one horny retard.
Christ, ain't they all. All them retards wanna do is fuck and eat.
Well, yeah... I think that if you knew him... I mean if you'd understand his urges, shit the guy's like forty or something.
Worse than a fucking rabid baboon.
Yeah, I guess, you know next to wacking his weasel his other favorite thing is twisting sharpened pencils in the corner of his eyes.
What?
Yeah, doesn't hurt himself, just spins it around next to his eyeball.
I'm sure that ain't the only place he's sticking those pencils.
Naw, he don't do anything else with 'em, but he did get caught once with a Planet of the Apes doll hanging out his asshole.
Goddamn.
Had to take him to the hospital. Kid had Dr. Zaius stuck half way up his butt, couldn't get it out.
I always loved that mute broad that Chuck Heston was shacking up with.
Nova, yeah she looked pretty sweet.
Yeah, now there's the perfect woman.
Can I get some stamps off ya? Did you fix the toilet yet?
Ya hear me? You bust that crapper and I'll beat your ass.
I hear ya.
Fuck your grandmother.
Yeah, I remember Mr. Alacard the shop teacher use'ta call you Little Dick Wick. Hey, wasn't there a song we made up to go with that?
Officers, officers what can I do for you today? I ain't fried up the birds yet... if that's what you're ring a ding dinging about.
What I need are some answers.
Well, I'll try but I don't know nothing 'bout nobody. I'm a guy who likes to mind his own business, if ya get what I'm saying.
You seen this girl? Say... within the last 24 hours.
Come on, get with the facts.
Hmmmmmmmmm?
What'd you see, who was she with, where were they going?
Aw, she was with some nosey, smartass highrise kids. They were poking around... asking stupid questions.
And...
And I gave 'em directions out there, up by the old farm row... I figured what's the harm. Stupid kids probably going out to piss up a rope and got themselves turned around backasswards and got lost as shit.
Is that all... think real hard.
Yeah, they weren't here but a few minutes, didn't really have time to get as up close and personal as I do with most of the assholes that wander through here.
How's about you give me those same directions.
Yeah, yeah, sure. You don't have to get all True Grit all over my ass... I'll give'm to ya... you can knock yourself silly for all I care.
Enough talk, write.
We'll need pictures of the inside too.
Alright, alright. I know... I wanted to be the photographer.
Well, don't even think about playing the good samaritan, there's way too many psychos wandering loose these days.
It's a girl.
Should we stop?
We can't leave her out here in the rain... maybe we can just drop her at the next rest area.
She looks like a freak.
Sounds like a magical trip through the heartland.
Where ya headed?
Why are we stopping?
There's a dog in the road.
Go around him.
There's not enough room.
Then run him over, he'll move.
Hey, he moved.
Let's get going before that thing tries to eat the car or something.
Well, I got some bad news and some bad news.
What?
Fine. I'll go straight.
What!
Fine! I'll go straight!
Forget it. I'll just go.
Screw that, no way, I ain't letting you go by yourself.
Don't worry, I'll be quick. Just stay here, no sense everybody getting drenched.
I hope to Christ she doesn't expect us to wear these things.
Whatever it is just do it. The more we play along the faster we'll get the hell out of here.
Check this out.
Well, ya can't complain I never take you anyplace.
This is starting to make me real uncomfortable.
Just sit back and enjoy the show.
How much is a person supposed to stand?
Quiet.
Oh, I'm sorry, bothering you? Was I disturbing your viewing pleasure?
What are you doing!
I gotta open the gate.
Drive through it!
It won't work.
I like sleep.
Here he comes.
Honk at him. Scare him.
He won't move.
Fuck! We are fucked!
Turn that fucking radio off!
Yeah, maybe R.J. could just tow us and our car to the nearest garage.
I mean obviously we will compensate you for your troubles.
What's he so excited about?
Yeah, showtime for what?
Just grin and bear it.
That food... ugh, I feel like I'm gonna puke.
Shit, I'm all for being a sport, but this is ridiculous.
Man, it's already ten thirty.
Yeah, I'd say at this point all we can do is just wait it out. There's nothing else.
I suppose. I mean they're obviously all bonkers, but I guess they're harmless.
Don't look back, just get in the car.
Lock the fucking doors.
Really? Huh, I thought for sure you'd say Lynette Fromme. She's got that snooty vibe I know you dig.
Sqeaky! No way, she ain't that hot.
She's pretty cute.
Yeah but, she reminds me of this chick that I remember from fourth grade... called a... shit, what did we call her? Oh yeah, Patty Peepee Pants... when ever she got called on by Miss Chumski, this chick would piss in her pants and start bawling.
There always one kid with no bodily controls. We had this dude, Jeff Baxter, he was a puker. The fucker would just sit there puke all over himself.
Better than pissing... anyway so, what's your choice?
If we're talking cute... like regular cute, I'd say Leslie Van Houton, but cute ain't hot.
Yeah, no shit.
As far a hot... goes I gotta go with... Ruth Ann Moorehouse.
Oh yeah, I forgot about her. She was pretty hot.
Fuck yeah, she is. I'd join a cult to get some of that... and the best part is she didn't try to kill the President or nothing, so that baggage ain't hanging around.
I thought she tried to murder a witness for the prosecution.
I'll let it slide, she was only seventeen.
Dude, talk about baggage, that ain't no carryon shit, that's some heavy duty Samsonite shit.
Yeah, I guess... hot chicks are always nuts.
Hot has got nothing to do with it.
Hold on, I've heard this before... but I can't remember the end.
So, the guy goes to Hell and the devil says, "do you smoke?" The guy say, "yeah"... the devil say, "great cause Tuesday is cigar night, sweetest Cuban cigars you ever had."
Shit, we really need to find some gas.
Then the devil asks, "do you drink?" Guy says, "yeah"... devil say, "wonderful, Wednesday is free drinks night, best booze you ever had... all made from the finest stuff."
Yeah.
Then the devil says, "are you gay?" Guy says, "fuck no"... Devil says, "Well then, I guess you're gonna hate Thursdays."
Oh yeah, I remember now.
Yeah, no shit I just told ya. Hey, you think this place called Alien Ed's UFO Welcoming Center is still around? It says, "Where the Fact is separated from the Fantasy."
I dunno... we'll ask around as we get closer. Man, I really don't want to run out of gas out here in the middle of Petticoat Junction, man.
Don't panic yourself, way too much caffeine guy... I see a sign. Captain Spaulding's Museum of Madmen and Monsters... cool. Also... fried chicken and... gasoline... next exit.
Perfect.
I hope this place is cool. We could use something interesting to liven up chapter 12.
I'll pump the gas. Go inside and see if it's worth thinking about.
OK, Boss.
Holy crap. You gotta see this place. It's awesome.
How awesome?
Really fucking awesome.
Wake up the chicks and bust out the camera awesome?
Hell yeah.
Keep straight on this road here.
How much further?
I'm not exactly sure... it looks close. Did we pass an abandoned school bus yet?
I don't know.
Come on, we need something like this. It could be the real deal. It's too far out of the way to come back to.
What's that?
It's a hitchhiker.
Way out here?
She looks like she stinks.
Cat fight, cat fight.
That reminds me of a film I saw once of a guy who got out of his car at Lion Country Safari to take a picture of a lion cub and got eaten by the lions.
Oh yeah, I heard about that. I always thought it was bullshit.
No... yeah, they ripped him to pieces while his family watched from the car. The wife is screaming, the kids are crying. Some dude in another car filmed the whole thing.
What was that?
Fuck. I think we blew a tire.
OK, let's relax. I'll check it, maybe I'm wrong. Don't everybody freak out just yet.
I'll help ya.
Gee, ya think it wouldn't be too much trouble.
I hope you fixed the spare like I asked ya.
Yeah, I fixed it. Well, I ain't... um, I can't remember. I think I took it out to fit the bags and forgot to put it back.
Jesus Christ, Jerry.
Well, technically I did what ya said.
You're a real fucking piece of work.
Tire's fucking gone crap on us, man. There's no saving it now.
And the spare is safely sitting in Jerry's garage.
Don't forget the flashlight, it's pretty dark out there.
Thanks.
No problem.
Oh, don't worry she didn't get offended by what I said. You two got to lighten up... right, Bill?
Whatever, at this point all I care about is food. I'm starving and I got a fucking killer headache.
Hey, I asked you if you wanted some chicken.
Didn't look like chicken to me, more like fried pussy cat.
Tasted pretty good.
I can't believe what I'm seeing.
I know, this is fucking nuts.
Almost there.
Jesus, you think she was really gonna cut you?
How long have you been running this place?
How long is a piece of string? Too God damn long, that's how long.
No, really.
Shit, I don't remember exactly. I took over for my Pa just after the Duke nabbed the Oscar.
The Duke?
Yeah, my Pa wasn't right in the head after that.
You mean John Wayne?
Hell, boy there some other Duke you know about? A great American.
Yeah, I was never that big of a western fan. I like science fiction.
I figured that much. Why the fuck you asking so many jackass questions for?
You see me and my friends are writing a book on offbeat roadside attractions. You know all the crazy shit you see when you drive cross country.
I don't drive cross country.
But if you did.
I don't.
But suppose for a second you did.
Y'all find us country people real funny like don't ya... well, God damn pack up the mule and sling me some grits, I'ze a gotta get me some schooling.
No, no I think it's really interesting.
Well fuck me Side Sally, who want to read about all that horse shit anyway.
You all having a Halloween party tonight?
Now, what makes you think that?
You all sure are buying a lot of holy water for two people.
Yeah, well we like to get fucked up and do fucked up shit, you know what I mean?
Yeah, yeah... ...I like to fuck shit up.
I'll bet you do... how much we owe ya... ...Goober?
Actually it's G. Ober... Gerry Ober, but the guys drew in the other O, fucking assholes.
Great story Goober, how much?
Ummmm... two hundred and eightyfive dollars.
Keep the change and get yourself a new name.
Holy crap, thanks!
Come on, bro. Let's go.
Hey, wait take this.
What's this?
A missing girl. I use'ta go to school with her, she just up and disappeared some day... real weird.
No! He's one of God's creatures, he can't help it if he's dumb... I'm just crazy about animals.
The animals have got nothing to do with it.
I'd like to see that.
Nice.
Can I help you with something?
I was just wondering.
Wondering what?
Are you two gals all funny with each other?
What?
You know... a couple of queers.
Do you believe this fucking girl?
I was just wondering, cause you got a pissy look about you... like a real pussy licking bitch.
What the hell are you laughing about?
I just pictured the tire sitting in a chair watching TV.
Oh, wonderful. Fucking psycho.
He walks, duh.
Fucking great.
Take that, you fucking slut! Fucking redneck whore!
You shouldn't a done that.
Why? You gonna do something about it?
Yeah, I'll do something.
Aw, I was going home to my Mamma's house... yeah, I was out doing this thing.
Where's that?
Couple more miles up this road.
What about the tree?
Oh yeah, the tree.
Which way?
Go straight up about another mile... til we hit Cherrypicker Road and turn right... it ain't far from there.
I guess I'll try to back it out on the rim... at least to the main road.
If you keep going straight you can get back on the interstate... it's easier.
OK, whatever. Let's go get your brother's truck. Faster we get the truck, faster we get out of here.
OK.
Don't worry, I'll be right back.
Come on.
How much further?
Almost there... are you in a hurry or something?
Well, yeah, kind of.
The door's locked. I'll gotta go around... wait here.
OK.
Christ, you scared the shit out of me.
Aw, you ain't seen nothing yet.
Is your brother ready to go?
Oh... yeah, he already left. We'll wait inside, come on.
He left!
Yeah, come on.
So, you live here alone... I mean with just your brother?
No. There's a bunch a us 'round somewhere... I think Mamma's sleepin'. She sleeps a lot, now... do you want marshmallows?
Um, yeah sure, I guess.
You sure do a lot of guessing.
Thank you.
You're welcome.
Hey, um... ...what kind of animal is that?
A dead one.
Mmmmm, this is tasty.
Ain't the only thing tasty in this house.
I wonder what time it is. Seems kind of late.
Don't worry, sugar. It ain't past my bedtime... are you flirting with me?
What? No, I'm was worried that... I was just wondering what's taking so long.
Oh. Maybe R.J. got into a crash and killed everbody?
That's not something to joke about.
OK, sorry... maybe the Great Pumpkin ate 'em up.
Hey, great they're back.
Whoopie fucking doo.
Tiny's home.
What about R.J.?
Oh, he was already gone before I seen him... but Tiny saw him and said he said he was going out to the yard to get a new wheel.
Ma, Tiny's in.
Go tell him to get your Grandpa.
I'll cut your fucking tits off and shove 'em down your throat.
Baby! Stop!
Come on, ma... this bitch's got it coming.
No, I told you...
Drink up, it's party time.
Enjoy your last night... ...where's Otis?
Oh, he's coming, he got something real special this year.
Who's your Daddy!
Who's your Daddy!
Take his gag out, it's more fun with the screaming.
Yeah, I like the screaming too... it's so much more exciting.
Whoa, thanks for stopping. I been standing out there in that toad strangling rain for like a hundred million years.
Really, that's a long time.
Yeah, most people just whiz on by like I was invisible or something... or else they're creeps who wanna jam their slimy hands down my pants and twiddle my naughtynaughty.
Yikes.
Yeah, icky. This one guy stops and I look in and he's got his thing out waving it around like a drunk monkey.
Yeah, I know where that is, it's right by my house. It's Dr. Satan's tree. I can show ya.
Really, wow, so it's really a real thing.
Yeah, it's a tree. I used to play there all the time. But, you can't find it without me. Outsider can't find no deadwood.
Deadwood, is that what it's called? Cool, will you show us?
Maybe, maybe, maybe... hey, you know what word I hate?
What?
Cone.
Huh... what cone?
Any cone, yeah... I hate that word... sounds ugly, I don't like crumple either.
I always hate saying the word cheese, every time you get your picture taken... smile, say cheese.
I know I hate Swiss cheese, the holes make me nervous.
Oh, I know. I'll show you where it's at, sweetie. Aren't you just so cute all bundled up like a cinnamon roll of Christmas love.
Cool.
The lions were totally covered in this guy's blood... I think they ate his face off, tore open his rib cage, pulled his legs off... it was a wild scene.
Things like that get a lot bloodier than ya think.
I agree.
Yeah, it won't take long and besides you sassy poodle girls will slow us down.
Please don't kill us, please don't kill us.
Please don't kill us, please don't kill us.
It's not fair on them. It's selfish to keep them with you.
My aunt in Australia has offered..
It's so far way. I couldn't bear it.
Kids don't care. You're thinking of yourself.
I didn't mean it like that, Grace. Why does it always come out wrong?
I know you mean well.
God, how I hate all this scrimping and squalor.
I don't mind it. It was harder before the war. Trying to keep up appearances. Now it's patriotic to be poor.
I don't know how you cope, Grace. Three kids, army pay. On your own.
You know something, Molly? I like it on my own. I never got used to sharing a bed, not really.
Molly!
Well! I'm not talking about Mac. He hasn't toughed me for ages. And not often ever. My life started when Mac went on nights.
You're having me on, Molly.
Am I? Maybe I am.
You've been drinking. Your tipsy.
Tipsy, topsy, turvy.
I'm so glad you could come. Here we are, all together again.
Happy as can be. In the old groove.
To Mary McDonald, Thelma Richardson, Bobo Hinds, Lily Sanderson... ...Little Sarah Whatsit, now there was a spirit. And Marjorie Anderson.
Father, that's enough now
And...and...Henry Chapman's girl, was it Thelma? No, I can see those cornflower eyes...I've lost your name, my sweetness.
What did I do to deserve this?
You married that fool, Clive, that's what. Never mind, you can stay with us.
How long?
What can you do with four daughters, I asked myself, A string quartet was all I could come up with. They hated me for making them learn.
And now we're glad you did.
It was the best time of his life.
How many of our class left? You and me out of twentyeight.
I can't do it. What's the point?
It's just the wrench, Grace. It's for their sake.
Please yourself. Let them go, if they want.
Grace!
It seems to have survived.
Play something, Grace.
Mac, that was wonderful. I haven't been to a concert since...
...since I used to take you to the Proms?
That's right. Not since then Not since I got married.
Remember this beach, Mac? All those summers. Out two families, together.
Happy days. When you're bigger, Bill, I'll teach you the googly.
Mac, did you ever find out who Molly went off with?
A Polish pilot. It's like one of those jokes on the wireless.
She said, 'I know you love me, Mac, but you've never loved me enough.'
Not loving enough. That is a terrible thing to do to someone. I suppose I did it to Clive. Always held something back.
It's all better left unsaid, Grace.
You were never apart, you and Clive. He kept asking and asking. And I waited and waited for you to say something. And you never did.
Clive had a job. I didn't. I couldn't.
He could always make me laugh.
We did the decent thing.
This war's put an end to decent things. I want to close my eyes and jump and give myself for once, hold nothing back.
We can't change what's past. Not even the war can do that.
We did all the proper things, and we lost love. That's sad, Mac.
Bless you, Mac. What would I have done without you?
You might still have a house.
I wish it could all have been different.
Look after yourself, Grace.
Is it peace in out time?
No, Mother! It's War! War!
Or what?
Did they say how long it would take to get new ration books, Grace?
Up to six weeks, I think.
How are we going to cope?
...such nice boys with straw boaters and blazers. All the punts lit up with Chinese lanterns. Like fireflies. And the gramophone going on one of the boats. Always the Charleston, the Charleston, the Charleston. Oh, you girls.
Wasn't it lovely?
I doubt if a few bombs would wake up Dawn on a Sunday morning.
This phoney war get's on my nerves. If we're going to have a war, I wish they'd get it started.
Just ignore her, Mac.
You know it? It must be an old one.
Ancient. Have you finished your homework?
After this dance.
He always knows.
Half the time he's bluffing.
What would we do if a German came into the house?
Don't be silly, Dawn.
Well, why do you always bring the carving knife in here?
Tell me the truth. You had to get married, didn't you? Because of me.
The ideas you get in your head.
That's why you never liked me. I'm different from you. Well, everything's different now, so it doesn't matter. So there.
I won't have this vulgar talk in my house.
It's only a joke, Mummy. I'm fifteen. I'm still at school. I want to be a nun when I grow up.
And where do you think you're going?
Out.
You go to bed this minute and take off that lipstick.
No, I won't.
I want him. I want him so much. I'll kill myself if I can't have him.
There, there, my baby.
You better bring him home, if you really love him. Don't kill love. You'll regret it for the rest of your life.
Who said anything about love?
What is it, pet?
He's being posted. I was terrible to him.
Don't leave it like that. Go after him. Swallow your pride.
What did he say?
He said I was right. I shouldn't wait for him. I was better to make a clean break.
I think it's very sensible in the circumstances.
Now he's gone and made me fall in love with him, which I never wanted to do. I told him that.
I don't believe this is happening to me.
It's not. It's happening to me.
It looks a bit fishy to me.
Could we salt them, or smoke them, do you think?
Now take deep breaths, and push.
Why? It's coming on its own. It doesn't hurt.
No Turks.
We didn't know that. It was a suicide mission. Machetes against artillery. Volunteers only.
They'd gone.
We all had to write a last letter home.
And it was the last. Hasn't written a letter since. Not even a birthday card.
Has Sue got it right?
What's that?
You joined up.
Oh, that.
I wish you could have told me yourself. Oh, Grace, it's not for long. They say it'll be over by Christmas.
And what's that?
Jam.
We don't know anything about it
Well, it's off ration. We know that.
How do we know they didn't plant it there? They know we're mad on jam. They could poison half the country.
Well?
It looks....foreign.
Jam is jam! It's just jam!
Taste it. Why don't you taste it?
You taste it.
You mean they let you go through the officer training course and then said you were too old for a commission?
That's it.
Why didn't they say that before you started?
I wasn't too old when I started the course. I was too old when it finished.
What are you going to be then?
A clerk. I'm doing a typing course. I'll be typing for England.
When do you think you'll get leave again?
Not till Christmas, I don't suppose.
I'm glad you didn't send them to your aunt.
I've had a letter from her. They've moved house.
Where to?
I've found a bungalow to rent up the towpath, Clive. I never want to leave the river again. The children have had such a wonderful summer.
Fair enough. The river.
Could you seal it over with hot pitch, Clive? Caulk it like the hull of a ship.
Thanks. I hope you can come for the launching.
...It was a tossup. His company went to India, mine went to France. Flip of a coin.
...two Indians to fan me all night. The heat.
....buried In a shellhole for thee days, while he's out there playing polo and sticking pigs.
And Jim.
What's left of him. He'll never see outside of the Star and Garter.
Root it out Clive... the thought of it, before it takes hold.
Weeds will grow, Mac.
Consider Grace, the kids. I love them like my own. And you.
Kiss me Hardy.
You're a mug, Clive. We did our bit in the Last Lot.
If King and Country call, Mac, you go as soon as I will.
What did we know? We were seventeen.
I heard the drum and fife yesterday, Mac, marching past. Made my hair stand on end. I thought, I've been asleep for twenty years.
What kind of war is this Mac? Up there in Cumberland, we never see an airraid. The worst problem I have is getting a new typewriter ribbon. When I rode in against the Turks, I knew what it was about.
Did you? You thought you did. We've been gypsed, all our lives. Look at your street.
What about it?
Rosehill Avenue. No roses. No hill. And it's certainly not an avenue.
Why not?
You need trees for an avenue.
There was talk of planting some when we first came.
Propaganda. We've been had.
How's your war, Mac?
Never done better. On the fiddle. Like everyone else.
Except the servicemen.
Naturally.
I don't understand. Is there any point to it?
There is all right. This Hitter fellow. We've got to winkle him out. And get shot of some of our lot at the same time.
You always were, Clive. Steady the Buffs.
Bugger the Buffs.
Don't panic! Keep your head!
I will if you will!
So you're going to be a grandfather.
And I'm still just a lad myself.
Don't bother to grow up. It's no fun at all.
Here's to music. And absent friends.
And absent bridegrooms!
And the bride.
It was great for me, how was it for you.
A bit too quick.
Well. Now we can do it slow. Are those some kind of stockings you're wearing?
They might be.
I mean, no suspenders. They just kinda' disappear up your ass.
Take it away. I know your husband's been away a long time, but....
Don't be so cheeky, Bruce.
Boy, that was some airraid.
Airraid?
Didn't you feel the house rock? You must have seen all those shell bursts.
What is it?
We're not supposed to say, but we're being shipped out tomorrow.
Where?
I don't know?
You do, you do. You're just not saying.
I swear I don't know. Here's your Christmas present.
You expect me to spend the rest of the war sitting at home staring at a ring? And you'll meet some French girl who can speak your own language. No thank you!
Please yourself.
What's that?
Big Berthas, shelling France. Twentyfivemile range, they have.
Wow!
They send over a few every day, to let them know we're still here. Each shell costs as much as a Ford 8.
Who pays for them?
We will, you will, for the rest of our lives?
Crocodiles! Aah!
The sodding water table.
But Dad, It's the News.
Thanks, son. I can hear it. I'm not sleeping, just closing my eyes.
Now, the googly looks like a leg break, but it's really an off break. Got it? Like this.
It's like telling fibs.
That's it. When you tell a lie, you hope to get away with it. When someone else does, you want to find them out. A good batsman will spot a googly. A good bowler will hide it. Always remember that, son.
You said that last year, Dad.
The land and the King are one, my son. If he stutters we falter. He's getting batter, and so are we.
I did see them. I did.
He's the worst liar.
You're the biggest fibber.
It's dinner time. It really is. Cross my heart.
The next one is ours. Either it hits us or it goes past us.
...and four and five...
Please God. Not on us. Drop it on Mrs. Evans. She's a cow.
...and six...
Can't we just see the end?
They've got the real thing outside.
It's not the same.
Mind that shrapnel DAWN thrusts a brass regimental hat badge in BILL'S face.
I'm starting my own collection.
It's Canadian. Where'd you get it?
Well, I'm not having any. Even if it's not poisoned. I don't think it's right. It's not patriotic.
You don't like jam. You hate jam. You never eat jam.
That's not the point.
You did that for me, and on the last day of your holidays?
Well, for the baby, really.
Thank you Billy, from the baby and me.
He's never going to come back. He's gone off to be a soldier and Mummy doesn't even know.
It doesn't matter, I can drive the car home.
You wouldn't.
Would.
You couldn't.
Could.
Go and ask her if she wants to play.
Ask her yourself.
You do it. You're a girl.
Tell them about Pauline's mum.
Not now. They wouldn't believe me.
Bruce, look! Dad got some German jam.
We thought it was poison.
I suppose they're still learning, that's why they keep moving about.
It's easy. I've done it.
Who with?
Pauline.
Liar. Mummy keep still and Daddy moves on top of her. That's what they do when they know how.
Pauline's mum got killed.
No, she didn't.
Yes, she did, didn't she?
What are you doing here? This is our territory
Looking for shrapnel.
I never was.
Yes, you was. Make him talk.
I know a secret.
What's that?
The Germans are dropping men on bomb sites.
Who told you that?
My uncle's in the War Office. He said, Don't go on the bomb sites. "Boys are going missing all the time."
They're not.
You want to join our gang?
I don't mind.
Do you know any swear words?
Yes.
Say them.
Well go on then. You can't join if you can't answer.
I only know one.
That word is special. That word is only for something really important. Now, repeat after me... Bugger off.
Bugger off.
Sod.
Sod.
Bloody.
Bloody.
Now put them together. Bugger off, you bloody sod.
Bugger off, you bloody sod.
OK. You're in.
They pulled them up from all the crossroads, so when the Germans land they'll lose their way.
Won't they have maps?
They'll have to go to a shop to buy a map, stupid. Then they'll give zemselves avay viz ze vay zay tork.
What's that?
Henry Chapman's daughter. It was Sheila. I remember her from last year.
So it was. Sheila. This boy will go far.
Can I try?
Put your hand on mine, get the knack of it.
Never let a rat creep up on you.
I think you hit him, Grandpa. He was limping when he ran off.
That was a googly!
I know.
You're a dark horse, bowling googlies at your age. Toss me up another.
No, you're out, Grandpa. It's my turn.
Want to know why they're called Faith, Hope, Grace and Charity?
Why?
Your grandmother. She named them after virtues I lack. That's marriage for you.
This is going too far, young man.
But Grandpa, you said...
I concede I was insistent, but how the Devil...
Give him the youknowwhat.
Very well, Grandpa.
You miserable little tripehound. I'm the one who should be fed up, sacrificing my last sup of black market petrol to take you to school.
I have to live in Rosehill Avenue as well.
Only till they get you into the local school.
With Mrs. Evans. I hate her.
You'll be at home for the weekends. Now shut up, or walk.
It's true.
You're much more convincing when you're making it up.
Grandpa, if you think of something hard enough, can you make it happen?
Apparently so.
Well  Williams goes a little balmy and begins making speeches on a plan he's got to save the world. Only he makes his speeches, usually, on a very busy street and neglects to get a license for it. Well, the cops let him alone as much as they can because he's harmless and they're kinda sorry for him. But one day he decides to hold a meeting right in the middle of a Veteran's Parade and the cops chase him. He gets scared and goes into hiding. Come in, Dave Schwartz.
His Honor, the Mayor, now comes out with a statement that Earl Williams is a dangerous character in the employ of two or three foreign governments and the police are going to get him dead or alive. Somebody sends out a tip that this guy is hiding in Molly Malloy's joint. And this colored policeman, Daniels, goes over to pick Williams up. Williams has read the papers, thinks the cop is going to kill him and shoots first. That is all.
Baldwin  his name is.
I give that marriage six months.
Who? Hildy Johnson? She just stepped out. She'll be back in a second. Who? Oh, Mr. Baldwin. Well, if you'll hang on a minute, she ought to be right in. All right.
Baldwin. The blushing bridegroom  himself.
What's he want?
Wants Hildy  and sounds very excited.
The door was locked.
She and Mollie were talking.
If you ask us, no. If you ask the state alienists, the answer is yes.
It's a simple story. Earl Williams works for the E.J. McClosky Manufacturing Company as a bookkeeper for fourteen years. He starts in at twenty dollars a week and gradually works his way up to twentytwo fifty. A year ago the McClosky Company goes out of business and Williams loses his job. Take it away, Fred Wilson!
Well, well  Miss Mollie Malloy.
Hello, Mollie.
Look out!
Look out where you're aiming, will you?
Sure, Mollie, you never looked better in your life.
Yeah, hold the line. Hey, this looks good. An old lady just called the detective bureau and claims Williams is hiding in her cellar. Well  we've looked every other place. Want to go out on it?
Get the cops, somebody.
Come on, fellas.
There she is!
Say, Hildy...
What's your hurry?
We want to see you.
Williams put up a desperate struggle but the police overpowered 
 tried to shoot it out with the cops but his gun wouldn't work, so 
What do you want?
I'm a messenger at the State House. This is from the Governor.
What's from the Governor?
The reprieve for Earl Williams.
They were all standing around when he wrote it. It was after they got back from fishing.
Get the Governor on the phone!
You can't get him on the phone. He's out duckshooting now.
Fishing! Duckshooting! How do you like that. A guy does nothing more strenuous for forty years than play pinochle  he gets elected Governor and right away he thinks he's Tarzan!
Now, listen! You never arrived here with this  reprieve. Get it?
Yes, I did, just now. Don't you remember?
How much do you make a week?
Huh?
How much do you make a week? What's your salary?
Forty dollars.
Who? Me?
Who do you think!
Now, listen. There's a fine opening for a fellow like you in the City Sealer's office.
The what?
The City Sealer's office!
You mean here in the city?
Yes, yes!
Why not?
I couldn't work in the city. You see, I've got my family in the country.
But you could bring 'em in here! We'll pay all your expenses.
No, I don't think so.
For heaven's sake, why not?
I got two kids going to school there, and if I changed them from one town to another, they'd lose a grade.
No, they wouldn't  they'd gain one! And I guarantee that they'll graduate with highest honors!
Yeah?
This puts me in a peculiar hole.
No, it doesn't. Now, remember: you never delivered this. You got caught in the traffic, or something. Now, get out of here and don't let anybody see you.
But how do I know...?
Come in and see me in my office tomorrow. What's your name?
Pinkus.
All right, Mr. Pinkus, all you've got to do is lay low and keep your mouth shut. Here! Go to this address. It's a nice, homey little place, and they'll take care of you for the night. Just tell 'em Fred sent you. And here's fifty dollars on account.
You forgot to tell me what a City Sealer has to do.
I'll explain it tomorrow!
Is it hard?
No! It's easy  it's very easy!
Get out of here!
You can't bribe me!
They wouldn't take it.
You're insane!
Here's the picture of my wife.
A very finelooking women.
She's good enough for me! And if I was to go home and tell my wife 
I understand perfectly, Mr. Pinkus, and as long as I am Mayor 
Come on, Mollie. This is no place for you.
They're not human!
They're newspaper men, Mollie. They can't help themselves. The Lord made them that way.
It wasn't the Lord! It was the devil!
Where are they gone? You know where they are?
Wait a minute, Mollie.
They got him surrounded some place  gonna shoot him like a dog!
Mollie, they haven't got him. You gotta help me, Mollie! We've got to do something!
What do you mean?
What's that?
Quiet, Mollie!
There's somethin' funny going on around here.
They'll get him! They'll get him!
Ssh!
I'm coming! Keep dead quiet. Don't even breathe.
I'll be right here. I won't leave you.
What's the idea?
Never mind! Just play dead.
Hey 
Shut up, you!
Are you all right, now?
Yeah, I'm feelin' fine.
I couldn't plead insanity, because you see I'm just as sane as anybody else.
You didn't mean to kill that policeman?
Of course not. I couldn't kill anybody  it's against everything I've ever stood for. They know it was an accident. They're not hanging me for that  they're hanging me for my beliefs.
What are your beliefs, Earl?
They're very simple. I believe in the Golden Rule. I'm not the first man to die for preaching it. But if they would only listen to it  we could have a fine, decent world instead of this mass of hate that makes man do such cruel things.
How would you go about applying the Golden Rule, Earl?
I'd do away with the profit system and have production for use only. There's enough food and clothing and shelter for everybody if we'd use some sense.
"Production for use only." Well, maybe that's the answer.
It's the only answer. Everything has a use and if we let it be used for its purpose, we could solve all our problems. Food was meant to be eaten, not stored away in restaurants while poor people starved; clothing was meant to be worn, not piled up in stores while people went naked. Doesn't that make sense?
Yes, that makes a lot of sense, Earl.
A gun? Why  to shoot, of course.
Is that how you came to shoot the policeman?
Sure. You see, I'd never had a gun in my hand before and I didn't know what to do with it. Well, when I get stuck, I know that there's an answer for everything in production for use. So it came to me in a flash: what's a gun for? To shoot! So I shot. Simple isn't it?
Very simple, Earl.
There's nothing crazy about that, is there?
No, Earl, not at all. Who sent you the flowers, Earl?
Miss Mollie Malloy. She's a wonderful person.
Isn't that her picture?
Yes. Isn't she beautiful?
Don't forget about production for use.
I won't, Earl.
You're not going to phone anybody where I am.
Put down that gun, Earl.
You're not going to shoot me, Earl. I'm your friend, remember? I've got to write that story about your "Production for Use".
Yes  that's right. Production for use.
Earl, you don't want to hurt your friends, do you?
Don't move!
Maybe you're my friend and maybe you're not  but don't come any nearer. You can't trust anybody in this crazy world. Say, I'll bet I could shoot you from here.
Sure you could, Earl  but you wouldn't want to do that, would you? You wouldn't want to kill anybody.
No, no, you're right. I don't want to kill anybody. All I want to do is be let alone.
Earl, there's just one thing I ought to clear up for the interview.
What's that? Only  you're getting too near. I don't trust anybody.
I don't blame you, Earl. If I were in your place I wouldn't trust anybody, either.
Keep away!
Earl, you must never do that again.
Oh, I'm awful tired. I couldn't go through another day like this.
Well, maybe you think I could!
Don't talk too loud.
Wakin' me up in the middle of the night  talkin' to me about things they don't understand. Callin' me a Bolshevik. I'm an anarchist. It's got nothin' to do with bombs. It's the philosophy that guarantees every man freedom. You see that, don't you?
Sure I do, Earl.
Quiet, Mollie, quiet!
Don't cry, Mollie, there's nothing to cry about.
How'd you get here, Earl?
Down the drainpipe. I didn't mean to shoot him. You believe me, don't you, Mollie?
Stop screaming, Mollie or we're sunk. I'm trying to think of something before those reporters get back.
Let 'em take me. It's better that way.
What good'll it do?
We'll get you out in ten minutes.
Mother!
Don't you mother me! Playing catand mouse with my poor boy! Keeping him looked up  making us miss two trains  and supposed to be married tomorrow!
Mother, I can explain everything. I'll go with you in five minutes and 
You don't have to go with me at all! Just give me my son's money and you can stay here forever as far as I'm concerned. Stay with that murderer you caught!
I don't know what she's talking about. I never said any such thing.
I'm quoting my son, and he has never lied to me.
Mother!
That man there!
Mother! Oh, I'm so glad to see you! Are you all right? Tell me.
Kings and sixes.
That's good.
'Kings and sixes The pot affixes'... Poetry. I learned that at my grandma's knee.
Any dope yet on how he got out?
From all I can get the Sheriff let him out so's he could vote for him.
Hildy, I thought you were gone 
Well  I was going, but Mollie fainted away and I thought I ought to do what I could.
Some Hallowe'en goin' on outside. The whole police force standing on it's ear.
Hiding him where?
Mother!
Have you got my dough?
Oh, sure. The boss sent me over with it. Four hundred dollars, wasn't it?
Four hundred and fifty and I'll cut your throat if you try any tricks!
All right, all right. You can't blame a guy for tryin', can you?
Come on with that money!
First you got to sign a receipt.
Where's the money?
Keep your shirt on. I got it  right here. One hundred  two hundred  three hundred  four hundred  and fifty. Now sign.
Here!
Thanks. So long, Hildy!
So long, nothing! Where's Bruce Baldwin's wallet?
Huh?
None of that innocent stuff, you doublecrossing hyena! You stuck Bruce Baldwin in jail this afternoon on a phony charge that he swiped your watch, and you frisked his wallet! Now, give me that wallet or I'll stick you in jail and it won't be on any phony charge either! It'll be for life!
Now don't get excited, Hildy! I don't know what you're talking about  but is this Mr. Baldwin's wallet?
You know it is!
I didn't frisk him. He must have dropped it in Burns' office. I didn't know whose it was.
No  and you don't know that your cheap boss has had Mr. Baldwin arrested again  do you?
What  already? Why, the dame left only a minute before I did!
You fight it cut.
And up a dime.
I don't know why you boys are so good to me.
Your poker's improved a lot, Hildy. Lend me two bucks, will you?
Nothing doing. I'm playing for keeps.
Certified, eh? Who is it  your milkman?
But, Bruce, don't keep it in your wallet!... Well, you see   there's an old newspaper superstition that the first big check you get you  you put in the lining of your hat. That brings you good luck for ten years.
Say, I've been a reporter twenty years and never heard any hooey like that. Where'd you get it?
I made it up just now, and who's asking you? I know it's silly, honey, but do it for me, won't you?... Yes, right now.
Hello, Hildy. I thought you were gone.
I thought so, too.
Did you get that, Hildy?
No  what?
If Walter Burns calls, hold the wire for me, will you? I'll be right back.
Okay, Hildy. Well, we can't get any official statement 
Okay. Forget it.
What's the matter with you boys? Afraid it might rain? If you want to go, I'll cover this end.
Look out, you 
What's the use of fighting, Hildy?
Well, anyhow, I won't be covering stuff like this any more.
What's the matter? Getting yellow?
It's getting so a girl can't step out of the room without being discussed by a bunch of old ladies. Hello, Post... Mr. Walter Burns, please.
Well, Hildy, we were only saying that a swell reporter like you wouldn't give this up so easily.
This is Hildy Johnson... Oh, I can give it up all right. Without a single quiver. I'm going to live like a human being  not like you rats. Oh, is that you, Walter dear? Oh, I didn't mean "dear." That was just habit, I guess. Oh, be yourself, Walter. I've got some news for you... Yes, I got the interview, but I've got some news that's more important.
Hello, Mr. Burns. Yes, she's still here.
I'll take it. What's the matter, Mr. Burns  don't you understand English?  Why, your language is shocking, Mr. Burns  positively shocking! I don't mind because I was married to you and know what to expect, but suppose Central is listening in... Oh, did you hear that, Central? We ought to report him, don't you think?... Oh, fooey on you!
Any news?
Yeah. I was never so tired in my life.
Gentlemen of the Press! Always picking on somebody who can't defend himself  the littler the better.
Phone for you, Hildy.
Who is it?
Oh, some insurance man. Are you in?
Give me that!
There goes another scrub lady.
I'll go right after it.
Oh, I ain't doing that any more. I'm retired. I'm one of you fellas now  a newspaper man.
Editorials?
Wait a minute, Walter. You can't do that!
My name is Louis Peluso.
Where's the old lady?
I'm telling you!
We run smack into a police patrol. You know what I mean? We broke it in half!
Ohhh... was she hurt?
I'm telling you. Can you imagine bumping into a load of cops?! They come rollin' out like oranges!
What did you do with her?
Search me! When I come to I was running down Thirtyfifth Street.
 You were with her. You were in the cab, weren't you?
Was I? The driver got knocked cold.
Nobody's going to rush me into anything! You keep away from me!
All right, Judge.
Let him out of here, Lieutenant.
But, Hildy, I can't. He's accused of stealing a watch. And they found the watch on him.
And who accused him? Diamond Louis! One of the worst crooks in town! Why don't you arrest Louis instead of innocent people that he frames?
Now, Hildy 
Don't Hildy me! Are you going to let him out?
I can't.
All right. You can't. But tomorrow the Post will run the story of that roulette game on 43rd Street that your brotherinlaw runs. And we'll print that you get five hundred a month for forgetting about it!
Now, Hildy, don't be hasty! I can't let him out.
You can let him out on bail, can't you?
Five hundred dollars.
You'll take fifty and like it!
Well, all right. But I'm liable to get into a jam.
Fine, thanks, Sheriff.
That's good, Earl. Oh, they've got another alienist to see you. He ought to be here any minute. Don't go to sleep, will you?
I won't.
Hildy, how'd you like a couple of tickets for the hanging?
I hope you're pretty nearly through with me, Doctor, I'm getting a little fatigued.
Yeah, you don't want to tire him out, Doctor.
Got you, Williams!
Go on  shoot me!
Pete, I want to talk to you!
I ain't got time, Fred, honest. I'll see you after.
Did you actually give Williams that gun?
The professor asked me for it  I thought it was for something scientific!
Pete, I've got a mighty unpleasant task to perf 
Now, listen, Fred. Just give me a few hours before you make any decisions. I'll get results. I'm doing everything humanly possible. I've just sworn in four hundred deputies.
Four hundred! Do you want to bankrupt this administration?
I'm getting them for twelve dollars a night.
Twelve dollars!  For those rheumatic uncles of yours? Out shooting everybody they see for the fun of it?
If you're talking about my brother inlaw, he's worked for the city fifteen years.
Pete, you're through!
What do you mean  through?
I mean I'm scratching your name off the ticket Tuesday and running Czernecki in your place. It's nothing personal. And, Pete  it's the only way out. It's a sacrifice we all ought to be glad to make.
Fred!
Now, Pete! Please don't appeal to my Sentimental side.
Fred, I don't know what to say. A thing like this almost destroys a man's faith in human nature.
I wish you wouldn't talk like that, Pete.
Our families, Fred. I've always looked on Bessie as my own sister.
If there was any way out...
That gives you an idea of what I'm up against!
We're up against a lot more than that with that nutty slogan you invented: 'Reform the Reds With a Rope'.
Williams ain't a Red, and you know it!
Well, there's a lot of Communistic sympathizers around 
I know it! But they've got nothing to do with this case! Do you realize there are two hundred thousand votes at stake and unless we hang Earl Williams we're going to lose 'em?
But we're going to hang him, Fred. He can't get away.
The Governor gave me his word of honor he wouldn't interfere. Two days ago!
And you fell for it, Pete. It frightens me what I'd like to do to you. Who else knows about this?
Pure politics!
An attempt to ruin us!
Dementia praecox Ohhh!
We got to think fast before those lying reporters get hold of this. What'll we tell 'em?
Tell 'em the party is through in this State on account of you.
Ah, Fred  Hello... this is Hartman 
And you can tell 'em as an afterthought that I want your resignation now!
Sssh. Wait, Fred. What?... Where?... Where? Holy Moses!
What is it?
They got him! Wait a minute  hold the wire. They got Earl Williams surrounded  the Riot Squad has  in his house.
Tell 'em to hold the wire.
I did. Hold the wire.
Cover up that transmitter!
No  don't out me off.
How would you like to have a job for three hundred and fifty dollars a month. That's almost a hundred dollars a week!
Hold your horses  will you, Olsen? Hurry up, Fred!
Now what do you say?
We'll fix that, too.
Just  one  second!
All right. Tell 'em to shoot to kill.
What?
Shoot to kill, I said.
I don't know, Fred. There's that reprieve if they ever find out.
Nobody reprieved that policeman he murdered. Now, do as I tell you.
Hello, Olsen... Listen... Shoot to kill... That's the orders pass the word along... No! We dont want him! And listen, Olsen, five hundred bucks for the guy that does the job... Yes, I'll be right out there. Well, I hope that's the right thing to do.
Now take that guilty look off your face, Pete  and stop trembling like a horse.
If we didn't have election Tuesday I'd have this on my conscience.
Fine work, Pete! You certainly delivered the goods. I'm proud of you.
Look kind o' natural, don't they, Fred?
A sight for sore eyes!
Aiding an escaped criminal! And a little charge of kidnapping I'm looking into. But that's the jail! There must be somebody there!
Well! Looks like about ten years apiece for you birds!
Who is this man?
Throw him out, Frank.
You drunken idiot! Arrest him! The idea of coming here with a cockand bull story like that!
It's a frameup! Some imposter!
That's a lie!!
I never saw him before!
Take those handcuffs off our friends, Pete. That wasn't at all necessary.
I was just going to!
Walter, I can't tell you how badly I feel about this. There was no excuse for Hartwell to fly off the handle.
I was only doing my duty. Nothing personal in it.
And so do I!
So do you what, you hoodoo! And now, Mr. Pinkus, if you'll come with us, we'll take you over to the Warden's office and deliver this reprieve.
I'm Sheriff Hartman. You want me?
You're certainly a hard fellow to find, Sheriff.
For who?
Earl Williams. The reprieve.
Read it! Insane, he says. He knows very well that Williams ain't insane!
Yeah. But I 
Well, wait a minute, will you? I'm in conference.
No, I couldn't do that.
Just one second 
That's good, because my health ain't what it used to be.
If the Mayor wants me, he knows where I am.
This tear bomb went off unexpectedly in the hands of Sheriff Hartman's Bombing Squad.
What went off?
Four of Mr. Hartman's Deputy Sheriffs were rushed to the hospital 
A fine fairweather friend you are!
The names are Merwyn D. Mayor, who is the Mayor's brotherinlaw 
After all I've done for you 
Howard Shenken, the Sheriff's uncle on his mother's side 
Where is he?
Where he used to live. You can catch the Riot Squad  it's just going out.
Same way you did. Through that gate.
I gave strict orders that nobody was to interview Williams without my permission.
All right, then, I'll just run the story that Sheriff Hartman is afraid to let reporters interview his prisoner. Of course, with election coming, that might do you a lot of harm, but just as you say.
Now, wait a minute! I'm not afraid of anything. What were you going to write about Williams?
Oh, nothing much. Just that the state had proved he was sane  and he admits it himself. If you don't want me to run it 
Oh, that'll be all right, Hildy. Go ahead, run it. And you can say I treated him well, too. 'Lo, Earl. How are you feeling?
No, thanks Sheriff. I'm leaving town tonight.
You ought to stay over. You always wrote a good hanging story, Hildy.
That's awful kind of you, Sheriff. I've got to get started on my interview. See you later.
Just a minute, Johnson!
Let go o' me. What's the idea?
Take your paws off me!
Hold her, boys!
Let me go! Fellows, something's happened to my motherinlaw.
Hang onto her! Keep her in here!
I don't know anything, I tell you. There's been an accident.
Johnson, there's something very peculiar going on.
You can send somebody with me if you don't believe me!
I wasn't born yesterday. Now the boys tell me you and this Mollie Malloy 
Nobody's trying to put anything over on you. I'm getting out of here and you can't stop me!
Johnson, I'm going to the bottom of this. What do you know about Williams? Are you going to talk or aren't you?
What do I know about Williams?
All right, boys. Take her along. I got ways of making her talk.
Where'd you get this?
I've got a right to carry a gun if I want to.
Not this gun!
He went over to the hospital to call on Professor Egelhoffer.
What?
With a bag of marshmallows.
He's harmless.
Don't take any chances. Shoot through the desk.
He can't hurt anybody. You've got his gun.
That's murder!
All right! Carl! Frank! One of you get on each side of the desk. Take hold of the cover.
How's everything, Gus?
I can't complain.
Oh  I'll take the same, I guess. And coffee.
Little rum in yours, too?
I guess so.
No  just coffee, Gus.
Just coffee. And you, sir?
Oh, I'm sorry, Gus! My foot must have slipped.
That's all right.
Gus, this 
Good coffee, isn't it?
I'll call.
Three sixes. Is that any good?
Goodbye, Yonson.
So long, Hildy.
What a chase!
No luck on Williams, yet  call you back.
You ain't gettin' out o' here!
Now, where is he?
We know what you're up to.
Probably goin' out to get Williams.
That must be the tenth alienist they've had on Williams. Even if he wasn't crazy before, he would be after ten of those babies got through psychoanalyzing him. Gimme the desk.
This Egelhoffer's pretty good.
Yeah? What did he ever do for his country?
Don't you remember? He's the guy went to Washington to interview the Brain Trust, and gave out a statement that they were all sane. It created a sensation!
Trouble is, when the Red Menace shows up the Sheriff will still be crying 'Wolf!'
What have you got, Hildy?
Well, a guy can win when Hildy ain't around.
Who's this guy she's gonna marry?
She says she's gonna write fiction.
Well, if she's gonna write fiction, there's nothing like being a reporter.
You guys wanna play some more poker?
What's the use? I can't win a pot.
Boy, did you see her go?
Lioness Rushes to Defense of Cub.
No, I tell you! Nobody knows where he got it.
The Crime Commission has offered a reward of ten thousand dollars for Williams' capture.
Call you back.
So have we!
What's the dope, Sheriff?
Who engineered this getaway?
Say, Hildy, if I know you, you sound pretty anxious to get rid of us. Are you trying to scoop us or something?
Something smells around here. If you ask me Mollie gave her the story on how Williams got that gun. Did you smuggle that gun into Williams, Mollie?
Oh, you two are pals now  I think you're right, Endicott. Mollie did give her some kind of story.
I tell you, it's a screwy setup. We better hold onto 'em both.
Come on, you! Before we slap you down.
Do you want us to call the cops and have them give you the boots?
Where is he, before we beat it out of you?
Come on, Pinky! Give 'em a little third degree.
Make them talk and you got Williams, Pinky!
Hold the phone!
I'll have it in a minute.
Well, that about covers everything.
Good. Now I want to ask you fellows a couple of questions. Did Earl Williams know what he was doing when he fired that gun?
Say, that's old Prissy Bensinger's desk.
I know, I just want to give him a thrill.
I call. What you got?
Three bullets! Any good?
Beats king up.
Who locked the door?
Just a second, Mike  Mollie, I got it!
Open up there, will you!
All right  all right!
Hey!
Mollie, drop down here! You've fainted!
Kind of exclusive, ain't you? We got calls to make, you know.
Run down and get some smelling salts, will you?
Mollie Malloy  what happened to her?
Came up here  had hysterics and passed out. I've been trying to get her to come to.
She looks as though she's going to come to.
Give me a hand with her, will you?
Okay. Up you go, Mollie.
A fine bunch of reporters. Biggest story in two years and they're too lazy to go after it.
It's easy for you to talk. You're retired. We're still working.
Better let us in on it, Mollie.
Aw, why don't you let her alone? She's ill!
Are you gentlemen all through with me?
Oh, I'm sorry. I forgot you were here. No, Mr. Williams, we still have some questions for you. Sheriff, will you kindly extinguish the lights?
You know you are to be executed, Mr. Williams. Who do you feel is responsible for that?
The system. But I'm not afraid to die, Doctor. I'm dying for what I believe.
I see. You realize, however, that you committed a crime?
In a legal sense, yes. But not actually. Actually, I'm innocent. I didn't do anything.
Now, the Sheriff will be Mollie Malloy, in whose room you were. You will be Earl Williams. And I will be the policeman. Follow me, Mr. Williams?
Yes, sir.
So  now I say to you: 'Earl Williams, you are under arrest!' and you point your gun at me.
Well, it wasn't exactly that way 
Point the gun at me!
The newspapers! Sheriff, they're the scum of modern civilization.
You said it!
They're always after me for interviews.
Me, too.
Of course, I sort of promised them I would give out a statement when I got through here. You don't mind?
Well, I don't know if that's ethical. You see, all statements are supposed to come from me.
We'll have to satisfy them. What would you say to giving them a joint interview? I could give them some of the psychological aspects of the case and you could give them the legal aspects.
A joint interview, eh? That might be all right. We could have our pictures taken together, Doctor.
Yes, shaking hands. I don't take a very good picture, though.
It doesn't matter. The publicity's the main thing.
Yes, I suppose so. It all helps.
I don't know 
Come, come, Sheriff, lightning doesn't strike in the same place twice. Nothing's going to happen.
Hello, Hildy! What are you doing around here?
I want to interview Earl Williams, Warden. How about a little service?
No more interviews. Besides, a doctor's coming over.
Say, isn't this your twenty dollars?
I think it is.
I thought so. Come on, I'm in a hurry.
Cooley, I want to talk to you.
Hildy  I can't. I'm busy  I  Let me up, Hildy. Earl Williams has escaped 
There's money in it, Cooley.
I can't Hildy. It means my job! It means 
A lot of money. Four hundred and fifty dollars 
How much?
Four hundred and fifty dollars. Is it a deal?
It's a deal. Let me up.
Let's see the money.
First we talk. How did Earl Williams get that gun?
Walter!
I'm busy, Duffy.
Well, you're not too busy to know that the Governor hasn't signed that reprieve!
What?
And that means Earl Williams dies tomorrow morning and makes a sucker out of us!
You're crazy. Where's Mac?
He's on my phone. He just called me.
They can't do that to me!
Don't blame me. I'm City Editor in name only. You do all the hiring around here.
Yeah! Well, I do the firing, too. Remember that, Duffy, and Keep a civil tongue in your head.
Here's that certified check, Walter. I drew out my wife's savings, and if this isn't back by 5:30 I'm a ruined man!
Don't worry, Duffy, you'll have it back by five. Thanks, Duffy. Stick around.
Down Western Avenue. We were going sixtyfive miles an hour. You know what I mean?
Take that mush out of your mouth!
Butterfingers! I give you an old lady to take somewhere, and you hand her over to the cops!
What do you mean, I handed her? The patrol wagon was on the wrong side of the street.
Now everything's fine. She's probably squawking her head off in some police station.
I don't think she's talking much... You know what I mean?
You stay here. I'll find out everything.
Western an' Thirtyfourth.
Anything you want, Boss.
Beat it out and get hold of some guys.
Who do you want?
Anybody with hair on his chest. Get 'em off the street  anywhere. Offer them anything  only get them. We've got to get this desk out of here.
You know me. The shirt off my back.
You got plenty of money?
Sure, boss.
I mean real money  not counterfeit!
I always have both.
Louie, take this lady over to Polack Mike's and lock her up. See that she doesn't take to anyone on the way.
What's that  what's that?
Are you referring to me, Madam?
You know you did!
Come on, Sheriff. We've got to get bail.
I was in here  and they had some kind of murderer in with them. They were hiding him!
Oh, dear! Oh, dear!
You greyhaired old Judas!
Let me out! Let me out of here!
What do you want?
Why, I'm surprised, Mr. Burns. That's no way to talk to your wife  even if she's no longer your wife.
Hello, Hildy!
Hello, Walter. Hi, Louie  how's the slotmachine king?
How long is what?
You know what. How long since we've seen each other?
Let's see. I was in Reno six weeks  then Bermuda... Oh, about four months, I guess. Seems like yesterday to me.
Maybe it was yesterday. Been seeing me in your dreams?
No  Mama doesn't dream about you any more, Walter. You wouldn't know the old girl now.
Oh, yes I would. I'd know you any time 
You're repeating yourself! That's the speech you made the night you proposed. " any time  any place  anywhere!"
I notice you still remember it.
I'll always remember it. If I hadn't remembered it, I wouldn't have divorced you.
You know, Hildy, I sort of wish you hadn't done it.
Done what?
Divorced me. It sort of makes a fellow lose faith in himself. It almost gives him a feeling he wasn't wanted.
Holy mackerel! Look, Walter, that's what divorces are for.
Nonsense. You've got the oldfashioned idea that divorces are something that last forever  till 'death us do part'. Why, a divorce doesn't mean anything today. It's only a few words mumbled over you by a judge. We've got something between us nothing can change.
I suppose that's true in a way. I am fond of you, Walter. I often wish you weren't such a stinker.
Now, that's a nice thing to say.
Well, why did you promise me you wouldn't fight the divorce and then try and gum up the whole works?
Well, I meant to let you go  but, you know, you never miss the water till the well runs dry.
A fellow your age, hiring an airplane to write: 'Hildy: Don't be hasty  remember my dimple. Walter.! It held things up twenty minutes while the Judge ran out to watch it.
Well, I don't want to brag, but I've still got the dimple  and in the same place  I just acted like any husband who doesn't want to see his home broken up.
What home?
Was it my fault? Did I know that coal mine was going to have another cavein? I meant to be with you on our honeymoon, Hildy  honest I did.
All I know is that instead of two weeks in Atlantic City with my bridegroom, I spent two weeks in a coal mine with John Kruptzky  age sixtythree  getting food and air out of a tube! You don't deny that. Do you?
Deny it! I'm proud of it! We beat the whole country on that story.
Well, suppose we did? That isn't what I got married for. What's the good of  Look, Walter, I came up here to tell you that you'll have to stop phoning me a dozen times a day  sending twenty telegrams  all the rest of it, because I'm 
Let's not fight, Hildy. Tell you what. You come back to work on the paper and if we find we can't get along in a friendly way, we'll get married again.
What?!!
I haven't any hard feelings.
Walter, you're wonderful in a loathesome sort of way. Now, would you mind keeping quiet long enough for me to tell you what I came up here for?
Sure, come on. We'll have some lunch and you can tell me everything.
I have a lunch date. I just want 
You can break it, can't you?
No, I can't.
Sure you can. Come on.
Don't tell me what to do! We're divorced  I'm a free woman. You're not my husband and you're not my boss! And what's more, you're not going to be my boss.
What do you mean by that?
Just what I said. That's what I 
You mean you're not coming back to work here?
That's the first time you've been right today. That's what I 
You've had a better offer, eh?
You bet I've got a better offer.
Well, go on and take it. Work for somebody else! That's the gratitude I get for 
I know, Walter, but I 
What were you when you came here five years ago? A little college girl from a School of Journalism! I took a little dollfaced mugg 
You wouldn't have taken me if I hadn't been dollfaced!
Why should I? I thought it would be a novelty to have a face around here a man could look at without shuddering.
Listen, Walter 
I made a great reporter out of you, Hildy, but you won't be half as good on any other paper, and you know it. You need me and I need you  and the paper needs both of us.
Well, the paper'll have to learn to do without me. And so will you. It just didn't work out, Walter.
It would have worked if you'd been satisfied with just being editor and reporter. But no! You had to marry me and spoil everything.
I wasn't satisfied! I suppose I proposed to you!
Well, you practically did! Making googoo eyes at me for two years till I broke down. And I still claim I was tight the night I proposed. If you'd been a gentleman you'd have forgotten all about it. But not you!
You  you 
Sweeney! You can't do that to me! Not today, of all days! Jumping Jehosophat! Oh, no, Sweeney... Well, I suppose so... All right. If you have to, you have to. How do you like that? Everything happens to me  with 365 days in the year  this has to be the day.
What's the matter?
Sweeney.
Dead?
Not yet. Might just as well be. The only man on the paper who can write  and his wife picks this morning to have a baby!
Sweeney? Well, after all, he didn't do it on purpose, did he?
I don't care whether he did or not. He's supposed to be covering the Earl Williams case and there he is  waiting at the hospital! Is there no sense of honor left in this country?
Well, haven't you got anybody else?
There's nobody else on the paper who can write! This'll break me, unless  Hildy!
No!
You've got to help me, Hildy.
Keep away 
It'll bring us together again, Hildy  just the way we used to be.
That's what I'm afraid of. "Any time  any place  anywhere!"
Don't mock, Hildy, this is bigger than anything that's happened to us. Don't do it for me! Do it for the paper.
Get away, Svengali.
If you won't do it for love, how about money? Forget the other offer and I'll raise you twentyfive bucks a week.
Listen, you bumbleheaded baboon 
All right  thirtyfive, and not a cent more!
Please! Will you just 
Great grief! What's that other paper going to give you?
I'm not working for any other paper!
Oh! In that case, the raise is off and you go back to your old salary and like it. Trying to blackjack 
Look at this!
I tried to tell you right away but you started reminiscing. I'm getting married, Walter, and also getting as far away from the newspaper business as I can get! I'm through.
Get married all you want to, Hildy, but you can't quit the newspaper business.
You can't sell me that, Walter.
Who says I can't? You're a newspaper man.
That's why I'm quitting. I want to go some place where I can be a woman.
I know you, Hildy, and I know what it would mean. It would kill you.
A journalist! Peeking through keyholes  running after fire engines  waking people up in the middle of the night to ask them if they think Hitler's going to start a war  stealing pictures off old ladies of their daughters that got chased by apemen! I know all about reporters  a lot of daffy buttinskies going around without a nickel in their pockets, and for what? So a million hired girls and motormen's wives will know what's going on! No, Walter, I'm through.
Where'd you meet this man?
Bermuda.
Bermuda... Rich, eh?
Not what you'd call rich. Makes about five thousand a year.
What's his line?
He's in the insurance business.
The insurance business?
It's a good, honest business, isn't it?
Oh sure, it's honest. But somehow, I can't picture you with a guy who sells policies.
Well, I can, and I love it! He forgets the office when he's with me. He doesn't treat me like an errandboy  he treats me like a woman.
He does, does he? How did I treat you  like a water buffalo?
I don't know about water buffaloes, but I know about him. He's kind and sweet and considerate. He wants a home  and children.
Say, sounds more like a guy I ought to marry. What's his name?
Well, I'll give you a hint. By tomorrow they'll be calling me Mrs. Bruce Baldwin.
Tomorrow? Tomorrow... as quick as that?
The quicker the better. Well  I finally got out what I came in to tell you. So long, Walter, and better luck next time.
I wish you everything I couldn't give you, Hildy.
Thanks...
Too bad I couldn't see this guy first. I'm pretty particular about whom my wife marries.
Well, he's waiting in the anteroom for me now.
Say, could I meet him?
Oh, better not, Walter. Wouldn't do any good.
You're not afraid, are you?
Afraid? I should say not!
All right then, come on and let's see this paragon. Is he as good as you say?
Better.
Then what does he want with you?
Now you got me.
Nothing personal. I was just asking.
You wouldn't believe this, Walter, but Bruce holds the door open for me.
No kidding?
And he takes his hat off when he's with a lady.
What for?
And when he walks with a lady, he waits for her!
Oh, I'm sorry.
Allow me.
Thanks.
I suppose I can't call this off without creating a scene  but remember, it's your last fling.
How do you like that? Here I am being nice to you and your sweetheart and that's the thanks I get!
Well, I'll tell you one thing, old man, she never looked at me the way she's looking at you.
I might have, Walter, but you were never there.
Anyway, I'm glad you two are going to be happy and have all the things I couldn't give her. You know, Hildy is about the best reporter in the country  and that goes regardless of sex. But all she really ever wanted was a home.
Here's luck to the bride and bridegroom.
Thank you.
What now?
His wife had twins and he went out to celebrate and got as drunk as a lord. They can't even find him. I tell you, drink is the ruin of this nation.
You said it.
So  Sweeney gets twins  and Earl Williams gets hanged tomorrow.
If he's nuts, why doesn't the State just put him away?
Because it happened to be a colored policeman.
The colored vote happens to be very important to the Mayor of this town.
Especially with an election coming up in a few days.
No, Bruce, dear. Don't you see? This is a trick to get your sympathy. No, Walter, I've been waiting for something like this  but I wasn't sure when you'd spring it. If you want to save Earl Williams' life, you can interview him yourself. You're still a good reporter. Bruce and I will be on that four o'clock train  and thanks just the same.
I'm an editor. I know what ought to be written, but I can't write it the way you could. It needs a woman's heart 
Why, Walter, you're getting poetic!
You see what I had to put up with? She never trusted me! You argue with her  otherwise you're going on a honeymoon with blood on your hands!
How can you have any happiness after that? All through the years you'll remember that a man went to the gallows because you were too selfish to wait two hours! I tell you, Earl Williams' face will come between you on the train tonight  and at the preacher's tomorrow  and all the rest of your lives!
What a performance! Bravo! Don't let him fool you, Bruce  it's only an act!
What do you mean, only an act? Haven't you got any feeling?
Well, it's either an act on your part or a miracle on Sweeney's.
What do you mean?
I happen to know Sweeney was married only three months ago. If he's got twins this morning, I claim it was done with mirrors.
All right, Hildy, I'm licked. But I'll make you and Bruce a business proposition.
We're not interested.
Maybe you'll be. You're a smart young man. You let Hildy do this story for me and you can write out a $100,000.00 insurance policy for me. What do you say?
Now you're talking!
You keep out of this. Bruce, suppose you examine Mr. Burns in his office. I'll get my bag and go over to the Press Room in the Criminal Courts Building. You phone me as soon as Mr. Burns has given you his check. Then I'll go get the interview and you phone Mother that we're taking the six o'clock train. And no tricks, Walter!
What tricks would I pull?
Oh, nothing! Of course, you might cancel the check. Yes! Wait a minute! What would be his first payment on that policy?
What do you think I am  a crook?
Yes  and that's putting it mildly! No certified check  no story  Get me?
All right. The check will be certified. Want my fingerprints?
No thanks, I've still got those. Well, I'll step into some working clothes and hop over to the Press Room for the background on this yarn. It'll be kind of fun to see the boys again, too. Remember, Bruce, it must be certified.
Exclusive? That's great.
It cost me four hundred and fifty bucks to tear it out of Cooley.
Never mind that. What's the story?
Never mind it? That's not my money! That's Bruce's money!
You'll get it. Now what's the story? I'll have the paper send the money right down to you. I swear it on my mother's grave.
Wait a minute. Your mother's alive.
I meant on my grandmother's grave. Don't be so technical, Hildy. What's the story?!
Well, this expert Dr. Egelhoffer, from New York, decides to make Williams reenact the crime 
Well, I'm coming to it. It seems the Professor had to have a gun to re enact the crime with  and who do you suppose supplied it? Nobody else but that great thinker, Sheriff Hartman!
No kidding, Hildy. Say, this isn't a rib?
No, this is on the level, Walter. I'm not good enough to make this one up. The Sheriff gave his gun to the Professor, the Professor gave it to Earl, and Earl gave it right back to the Professor  right in the stomach! Who? No, Egelhoffer wasn't hurt badly. They took him to the County Hospital where they're afraid he'll recover.
That's great work, Hildy... Huh? Oh, will you stop worrying about the money? I'll see you get it in fifteen minutes.
It better be fifteen minutes, because Bruce is waiting downstairs in a taxicab and that meter's clicking away to beat the band.
Hold on a minute.
Walter! Ddid you see   that?
Yes. Where is he?
She jumped out of the window.
I know. Where is he, I said.
Where do you think you're going?
Let go o' me! I've got to get Bruce out of jail! Oh, Walter, why did you have to do this to me?
Get Bruce out of jail! How can you worry about a man who's resting comfortably in a quiet police station while this is going on? Hildy, this is war! You can't desert now!
Oh, get off that trapeze! There's your story! Smear it all over the front page  Earl Williams caught by the Morning Post! And take all the credit  I covered your story for you and I got myself in a fine mess doing it  and now I'm getting out! I know I told you that twice before today  but this time I mean it!
You drooling idiot! What do you mean, you're getting out! There are three hundred and sixtyfive days in the year one can get married  but how many times have you got a murderer locked up in a desk?  Once in a lifetime! Hildy, you've got the whole city by the seat of the pants!
I know, but 
You know! You've got the brain of a pancake! That wasn't just a story you covered  it was a revolution! Hildy! This is the greatest yarn in journalism since Livingstone discovered Stanley for the New York Herald!
Wait a minute  wasn't it Stanley who discovered Livingstone?
Don't get technical at a time like this! Do you realize what you've done? You've taken a city that's been graftridden for forty years under the same old gang and with this yarn you're kicking 'em out and giving us a chance to have the same kind of government that New York's having under La Guardia! We'll make such monkeys out of these wardheelers next Tuesday that nobody'll vote for them  not even their wives!
I'd like to think.
Well, think it then, because it's true! We'll crucify that mob. We're going to keep Williams under cover till morning so the Post can break the story exclusive. Then we'll let the Governor in on the capture  share the glory with him.
I get it!
You've kicked over the whole City Hall like an applecart. You've got the Mayor and Hartman backed against a wall. You've put one administration out and another in. This isn't a newspaper story  it's a career! And you stand there bellyaching about whether you catch an eight o'clock train or a nine o'clock train! Still a dollfaced mugg! That's all you are.
Let me get at that typewriter and I'll show you how a dollfaced mugg can write!
Attagirl! Why, they'll be naming streets after you  Hildy Johnson Street! There'll be statues of you in the parks, Hildy. The radio'll be after you  the movies! By tomorrow morning I'll betcha there's a Hildy Johnson cigar! I can see the billboards now. Light up with Hildy Johnson!
Whoa  wait a minute. We can't leave Williams here. One of the other fellows'll 
We're going to take him over to my private office. Where's our phone?
That one  how you gonna take him? They'll see him.
Not if he's inside the desk. We'll carry the desk over. Give me Duffy!
You can't take that desk out. It's crawling with cops outside.
We'll lower it out of the window with pulleys. Quit stallin'.
Hildy!
Huh!
Get the lead out of your typewriter and start pounding out a load, will you? Snap into it!
How much do you want on it?
All the words you've got.
Where's some paper?
Can I call the Mayor a bird of prey  or is that libelous?
Call him a lovechild, if you want to. Duffy!
How about the time he had his house painted by the Fire Department?
Give him the works. Hello, Duffy, get set! We've got the biggest story in the world. Earl Williams caught by the Morning Post  exclusive!
For Pete's sake, Hildy, they're waiting for the rest of that story!
Okay, Walter.
Hildy!
All right, Walter.
Listen, did you impress it on Butch that I want him and his gang here right away? You did? Every minute counts. All right. Duffy's getting old!
Where's Butch?
Well, keep going! We want an extra out on the streets before it's too late!
Where's Bruce?
Bruce? Oh  er  he went out to get the tickets.
What tickets?
Railroad tickets.
Is he coming back here?
Didn't you hear him? Of course he's coming back here. Keep going, will you?
Doublecrossing swine!
You said it! But this'll teach him a lesson. He won't quit his paper without giving notice after this.
Tear into it, will you? Don't sit there like a frozen robin!
I'm finished.
Finished!
Bruce ought to be back by now. Walter, you're not trying anything again, are you?
Hildy, you think I could? After this story? Here! You're just nervous.
Where's Mrs. Baldwin?
What did you do with her?
What happened?
You been in a fight?
Where is she? Tell me!
Louie!
Don't tell me  was she killed?
Was she? Did you notice?
It's Fate, Hildy. What will be, will be.
What am I going to say to Bruce? What'll I tell him?
If he really loves you, you won't have to tell him anything. Snap out of it! Would you rather have had the old dame dragging the whole police force in here?
I killed her. I'm responsible. Oh h... what can I do now? How can I ever face him? Oh, I hope he never comes back!
Look at me, Hildy 
I'm looking at you  you murderer!
If it was my own mother, I'd carry on! You know I would. For the paper!
Louie, where'd it happen? I'm going out!
Hello  hello...
Gimme Western fourfivefiveseven.
Who? Hello, Butch! Where are you?
Mission Hospital? Gimme the Receiving Room.
What are you doing there? Haven't you even started?
Hello  Eddie? Hildy Johnson. Was there an old lady brought in from an auto smashup?
Oh, for  H. Sebastian  Butch! Listen, it's a matter of life and death! Listen!
Nobody? Morningside threeonetwofour.
I can't hear... You got who? Speak up! A what?... You can't stop for a dame now!
Is this the Community Hospital?
I don't care if you've been after her for six years! Butch, our whole lives are at stake! Are you going to let a woman come between us after all we've been through?
Hello, Max, Hildy Johnson. Was there an old lady ?
Butch! I'd put my arm in fire for you  up to here! Now, you can't doublecross me!... She does? All right  put her on. I'll talk to her... Hello! Oh, hello, Madam... Now listen, you tencent glamour girl, you can't keep Butch away from his duty... What's that? You say that again and I'll come over there and knock your eye out! Hello? I'll kill 'em! I'll kill both of 'em! Duffy! Mousing around with some big blonde Annie on my time! That's cooperation! Duffy!!
Shut up, will you? You sure? Nobody?
Duffy!!!! Duffy!!!! Well, where is Duffy? Diabetes! I ought to know better than to hire anybody with a disease. Louie.
Lafayette twoonehundred.
That dumb immigrant'll flop on me. I know it. Can you imagine Butch doing this to me  at a time like this?
Ring that number, will you?
Come here. See if we can move it.
Hello  hello! Is this the Lying  In Hospital? Did you have an auto accident in the last 
Will you come here?
Oh, I see. I beg your pardon.
When I'm surrounded, with my back against the wall, you're not going to lay down on me, are you 
Yes.
Hildy, you just can't leave me out on a limb now. It  it wouldn't be cricket!
I don't care what you say. I'm going to find Bruce's mother. Ohh... I'm going out and find her!
Don't open that!
Who says so? I'm going to the morgue  to look 
No, you don't! Walter!
What is it? Here!
No!
Yes! What are you afraid of Hildy? I dare him to move that desk out of here.
Wait a minute! Let go there!
Murder, uh?
Hanging an innocent man to win an election!
When did you deliver this first?
Who did you talk to?
Which ought to be about three hours more, I'd say.
Just until we can get out a special edition asking for your impeachment.
And your arrest. You'll each get about ten years, I think.
How was that for a tight squeeze?
Don't tell me you were worried!
Worried! I was petrified. Weren't you?
Uhuh. As long as we were in there together pitching  they couldn't lick us. Well, it's been a lot of fun.
In a way.
I mean  working together. Just like the old days. The things we've been through, Hildy.
We've certainly been in some swell jams.
Remember the time we broke into the D.A.'s office, and copied Fifi Randell's diary?
Yeah. What about the time we hid the missing heiress in the sauerkraut factory? Six scoop interviews!
Yeah  but that time we stole Old Lady Haggerty's stomach off the Coroner's physician. We proved she was poisoned though, didn't we?
We sure did, but we had to go in hiding for a week.
In the Shoreland Hotel. And our only chaperon was the poor old lady's stomach.
Don't remind me. That's how we happened to 
Sorry, Hildy. I didn't mean to be making love to another man's fiancee.
That's all right, Walter. It's as much my fault as yours.
Bruce is making the nine o'clock train. I told him you'd be on it  unless you want to write this story yourself.
Well, if it's my last story, I'd like it to be a good one. But  I guess I can't, Walter.
Suit yourself, kid. This isn't for me to decide. Of course, you could make a later train and still be in Albany tomorrow morning.
Yeah. I suppose I could. But, Walter 
He's going to have you the rest of his life, Hildy. Can't you give me another hour?
I don't know what to do, Walter.
Flip a coin.
All right. Heads I go  tails I stay to write the story. Ready?
Well  what is it?
What's the difference? I'm going to write that story  and you know it!
Hildy!
Don't touch me! I'm not doing it for you!
Then why are you doing it?
Because I'm a newspaper woman, Heaven help me!
The greatest yarn ever written by anybody. My hat's off to you, Hildy!
Thanks.
And what a way to quit. While you're still champion! That's the way to leave, Hildy!
Yeah. Only  only I'm not leaving, Walter.
What do you mean? Bruce'll be waiting for you in Albany.
No, he won't. I wired him that I wasn't coming.
Where'd you wire him?
On the nine o'clock train. That's the one he took, isn't it?
Sure.
It's awfully clear now. Bruce needs a wife who can give him a home  and affection  and peace. I couldn't do that for him, Walter. I'm what you made me  a cheap reporter who'd give up her soul for a story!... Is that job still open?
Both jobs are open, Hildy. The paper  and being Mrs. Walter Burns.
Thanks, Walter, but it's no good. We tried it.
Sure, it was good  it was wonderful! Only you expected it to be like other marriages. It can't be like other marriages  we're different! We're a different world. Look at what we went through today. I wouldn't trade that for any honeymoon in the world. I bet you wouldn't, either.
A fine honeymoon, with a murderer right in the boudoir! And that other honeymoon in a coal mine!
That's what makes it romantic. Every other married couple goes away on a honeymoon and for two weeks the bride knows just where the groom is, and vice versa. But us  you never know where I am and I'm not sure where you are. That's Romance!
Well, maybe I'd like to know just once!
Hildy, if that's what you want, all right. We'll even go to  how about Niagara Falls?
Niagara Falls! Walter, you don't mean that?
Sure I do. And I'll tell you something else  I'd like a baby.
Walter!
Sure, I can't last forever. I want a son I can train to take my place on this paper.
What would you do if it was a daughter?
Well, if she looked like you  Say! My brains and your looks  that mightn't be such a bad combination.
What's the matter with my brains?
What's the good of arguing about something that probably doesn't exist? Look, Hildy, I'm proposing to you. What do you say?
Well, I'd like to be ladylike and think it over.
I don't want to rush you. Take a couple of seconds.
What!
Now don't argue, Hildy. How about it, Judge?
That's what he said the last time. Don't believe him, Judge.
Hildy, from this time on no tricks, no doublecrossing  everything on the level!
You're not fooling anybody.
How about Bruce's?
Walter, you can't do that!
Sure, I can. Look at the policy I gave him! "With this ring I thee wed and with all my worldly goods I thee endow: And thereto I plight thee my troth."
Hildy, darling!
Yes  'Hildy, darling'. I'm just a fool. That's what I am. I know what it's going to be like.
It'll be Heaven!
Sure, Heaven! You've probably thought up another coal mine to send me down in  to get a new story for your paper!
But, Hildy  I can explain 
You  you!!
Does it? You forget the power that always watches over the Morning Post.
Your luck's not with you now!
Duffy! Get Liebowitz!
All the lawyers in the world aren't going to help you!
This is the Morning Post you're talking to!
The power of the press, huh!
That's absurd on the face of it, Mr. Burns! He's talking like a child.
Out of the mouths of babes.
He's insane or drunk or something. Why, if this unfortunate man, Williams, has really been reprieved, I personally am tickled to death. Aren't you, Pete?
Save that for the Tribune.
What did you say your name was  Pinkus?
Who do you think you are, breaking in here like this?
You can't bluff me, Burns. I don't care who you are or what paper you're editor of.
If you've any accusations to make, Hartman, make them in the proper manner. Otherwise, I'll have to ask you to get out.
You'll ask me to what?
Get out!
Close that door. Don't let anybody in or out.
I can explain that, Hartman. When Hildy told me she wanted to interview Earl Williams I thought it might be dangerous and I gave her a gun to defend herself.
Oh, you did! Well, that's very, very interesting. This happens to be the gun that Earl Williams shot his way out with!
You're barking up the wrong tree, Hartman.
I'll give you three minutes to tell me where he is.
No? Well  Johnson, you're under arrest. You, too, Burns.
Who's under arrest? You pimpleheaded, squaretoed spy  do you realize what you're doing?
I'll show you what I'm doing. Burns, you're guilty of obstructing justice and so is the Morning Post. I'm going to see that the Post is fined ten thousand dollars for this.
You'll see nothing of the kind, Sheriff.
We'll just start by impounding the Post property. Is that your desk?
Hartman, if you take this desk out of this building, I'll put you behind bars.
You will, eh? Well, we'll see about that. All right, boys. Take it.
I'm warning you  it'll be a Federal offense. And you'll be an accessory!
We'll take a chance on that, Burns. Go ahead, boys.
What about this, Burns? Kidnapping, eh?
Oh, trying to frame me, eh! I never saw this woman before in my life!
Call Duffy!
No, you don't!
Do you want to get us scooped?
You're going to be in office for exactly two days more and then we're pulling your nose out of the feed bag.
Give me the District Attorney's office. I'll tell you what you'll be doing  making brooms in the State penitentiary. Hello, D'Arrasty! This is Hartwell. Come over to my office, will you? I've just arrested a couple of important birds and I want to take their confessions.
What's this?
Get out of here, you!
Mr. Burns 
I've just told you I was busy with Mr. Bruce Baldwin!
I'm Bruce Baldwin!
You're Bruce Baldwin?
Yes!
Then who are you?
This is a pleasure, Mr. Baldwin, and I'm sorry about the mistake.
BRUCE +++$+++
Oh, I thought there was something funny... You see, Bruce, you don't mind if I call you Bruce, do you? After all, we're practically related 
Mr.  well  no  no  not at all.
You see, my wife  I mean, your wife  that is, I mean Hildy  had led me to expect that she was marrying a much older man.
Oh.
But I see, she didn't mean old in years. You always carry an umbrella, Bruce?
Well, er  it looked a little cloudy this morning.
That's right.  Rubbers, too, I hope? A man ought to be prepared for any emergency.
Attaboy! Come on, Bruce.
Where are we going?
Where are we going? I'm going to buy you two lunch  didn't Hildy tell you?
No  she didn't.
Just wanted to surprise you, I guess. Down! After you, Bruce! Come on, Hildy, my treat!
Well, so you're getting married tomorrow, eh? How does it feel, Bruce?
Feels awful good. Yes, sir  we're taking the four o'clock train to Albany and tomorrow we'll be married.
Taking the train today  and being married tomorrow?
Mother? But your mother 
No. My mother.
Oh. Your mother  well, of course, that relieves my mind.
I know I wasn't a good husband, Hildy, but you can always count on me.
I don't think she'll need you very much  I aim to do most of the protecting myself.
Well, I'll try to give her one.
I know you will, Bruce. Are you going to live with your mother?
Just for the first year.
That'll be nice. A home with mother. A real honeymoon. In Albany, too. Ow!
Mighty nice little town, Albany. They've got the State Capitol there, you know.
Yes, I know... Hildy, will you ever forget the night you brought the Governor back to your hotel room and found me taking a bath? She didn't even know I was in town...
How's business, Bruce?
Well, Albany's a mighty good insurance town. Most people there take it out pretty early in life.
I don't blame them.
I sometimes wish I'd taken out insurance  but, of course, now it doesn't matter. Still, I suppose it would have been the smart thing to do.
Well, I honestly feel that way. I figure I'm in one line of business that really helps people. Of course, we don't help you much when you're alive  but afterward  that's what counts.
I see what you mean.
Anything the matter?
Just Sweeney again. One of my best reporters.
Just what is the lowdown on Williams?
It's simple. A poor little dope who lost his job went berserk and shot a cop who was coming after him to quiet him down.
Are you sure Williams is not all there?
All you've got to do is talk to him. But the Mayor would hang his own grandmother to be reelected.
But couldn't you show the man wasn't responsible?
How?
How long would the interview take?
Oh  an hour for the interview. Another hour to write it.
We could take the six o'clock train, Hildy. If it would save a man's life.
I never knew Hildy to be so determined before.
You haven't seen anything yet.
I don't know. This makes me feel funny.
Why shouldn't I make Hildy my beneficiary? I've got nobody else to leave it to.
I feel I ought to take care of her.
Well, you'll take care of her. After all, if that doctor's right, I'm going to live for a long time yet. Look, Bruce, this is a debt of honor. I was a very bad husband: Hildy could have got a lot of alimony if she'd wanted to, but she wouldn't take any. She had it coming to her, but she was too independent.
Well, I'm independent, too.
Figure it this way: I ought to be good for twentyfive years. By that time, you'll probably have made enough so that the money won't mean anything. But suppose you haven't made good  don't you think Hildy's entitled to a quiet old age without any worries?
Well, of course, if you put it that way.
And remember this, Bruce! I love her, too.
I'm beginning to realize that.
And the beauty of it is she'll never have to know 'till I've passed on. Maybe she'll think kindly of me  after I'm gone.
Gee, you almost make me feel like a heel  coming between you.
No, Bruce, you didn't come between us. It was all over for her before you came on the scene. For me  it'll never be over.
Well, Bruce, here you are  certified and everything.
Certified! I'm afraid Hildy'd feel ashamed to think she hadn't trusted you.
Well, she'll know some day.
That's all I ask. Oh, wait a minute.
Don't want to forget this, you know. Might start to rain again.
Thanks. I'll phone Hildy right away to get that story.
Well, anyway, I know Hildy's getting a good man.
Thanks a lot.
Well, I got to get back. You can find your way out, can't you?
Oh, sure. Well, thanks for everything.
Don't thank me. I should thank you. So long.
So long.
Hildy!
What the devil do you want? Listen, Bruce, you can't come in here now! We're busy! Where you been, Duffy? Stick around! What? What Chinese earthquake? The deuce with it... what's that?
No  I was just talking to one of the guys at the office.
Oh. I wonder what's keeping mother? She was supposed to come down and get you.
And I'll take that certified check, too. I've decided I can handle things around here...
Come on, Hildy, we've got to keep going! Sorry, Bruce, but 
I'll see she's there, Bruce, I promise you.
If she's not there, mother and I are leaving anyhow!
I know how you feel, Bruce, but you've got to forgive her. She's only a woman, after all.
Suppose she is  I have feelings, too! Do you know where I've been for the last couple of hours? Locked up in a police station and she didn't move to do anything about it.
Ts! Ts! Ts!
And now I don't know where my mother is. She may be lost.
I'll find her, Bruce, if I have to put every detective in the city on the job. Tell you what  go over to the Missing Persons Bureau and describe your mother. What does she look like?
She's  well, she's very motherly. That's about the best description I know.
That's the kind of stuff they want!
Oh, Bruce, let me see that money Hildy gave you.
The money? Why?
There's a lot of counterfeit big bills going around.
Gee! Take a look, will you?
Oh, this is all right, Bruce. I just wanted to be sure.
Say, I want to be sure, too!
I won't be more than ten minutes, I promise you.
Even ten minutes is a long time to be away from you.
I said  uh  I said even ten minutes  is a long time  to be away from you.
Don't be embarrassed, Bruce. I heard it, but I just wanted to hear it again. I can stand being spoiled a little. The gentleman I'm going to have a chat with did very little spoiling.
I'd like to spoil him just once. Sure you don't want me to go in with you?
My job, Bruce. I started it  and I'll finish it.
I suppose you're right  but if it gets rough, remember I'm here.
I'll come arunning, pardner.
Oh, it isn't like that.
It will be perfectly all right, Walter. Mother is coming with us on the train.
You know, Hildy, he's not a bad fellow.
You're so nice, Bruce, you think everybody else is.
Oh, he's not the man for you. I can see that. But I sort of like him. Got a lot of charm.
He comes by it naturally. His grandfather was a snake.
If anybody had told me I'd be sitting at lunch with him  but he swept me right off my feet.
That's what he did to me. Swept me right off my feet  and left me lying on the floor.
Too hot?
No. It's strong. But I like it that way.
Say, what's happened to Burns? He looks sunk, doesn't he?
He certainly  hic  does!
I don't use my wife for business purposes, Mr. Burns!
Wait a minute, Bruce. What's commission on a $100,000.00 policy?
Well, at his age, twenty payment life, a little over a thousand dollars.
And what's the matter with a thousand dollars?
But 
According to the budget, we laid out that's more than our food bill for a whole year. Listen, Bruce, I don't want Walter Burns to use me, but I'm perfectly willing to use him. How long will it take to get him examined?
I could get a company doctor in twenty minutes.
About twentyfive hundred dollars.
Better make that a certified check, Walter.
All right, dear.
Wait a minute, Bruce. Have you got that money?
The five hundred? Sure.
On second thought, would you let me have it? I'll get the tickets.
But 
Believe me, Bruce, I know what I'm doing. He'd get you in a crap game 
But I don't gamble, Hilda!
I know a lot of men who didn't do anything till they met Walter Burns. Please, dear.
All right. One  two  three  four  five. Five hundred. Be careful, honey.
I'll be careful, darling. You be, please.
Hildy Johnson... Oh, hello, Bruce. Have you got it? Is it certified?
Certified and everything. Got it right here in my wallet... What? No, he's not here  I'm in a phone booth.
All right. I've done it. Now, are you satisfied?
Fine. And here's a kiss for you.
What's the matter?
I lost my wallet.
The check, Bruce!
That's right here. Gee, it was lucky your telling me about that old newspaper superstition.
Yes, wasn't it?
I can't imagine who did it. I can't think of any enemies I have.
I'm sure you haven't any.
For a minute, I thought maybe Walter Burns was at the back of it. But then I realized he couldn't have been.
Oh, no. How could you ever think of such a thing?
Oh, I realized right away. He's really a very nice fellow, Hildy  I found that out.
Yes, he is... Look, Bruce, we're taking that next train  and when I say next train, this time I mean it!
Did you finish the interview?
The Criminal Courts Building.
No  but I'm sure it'll be all right with Walter.
But, gee, Hildy  he gave us that insurance business  and you promised 
Well, the story's practically finished. I'll just go upstairs and send it over with a messenger.
Hildy!
Hello, Bruce...
BRUCE!! How'd you get out?
Not through any help of yours, Hildy.
Bruce, I know, but I was in the biggest jam 
I waited and waited and then I had an idea and wired Albany to send me a hundred dollars so I could get out on bail... I don't know what they'll think  they sent it to the police station!
We'll explain the whole thing to them.
I know I got you into this, Hildy, but it does seem to me that you can't care much for me if you're willing to let me stay locked up for two hours.
Bruce, you know I'm mad about you and stop talking like that. Walter!
Oh, she was here.
Where'd she go?
Out some place.
Hildy! Where's mother?
Oh  mother  she  I don't know where she went.
Did you give her the money?
No, I was going to give it to her  but she left hurriedly.
Then suppose you give me the money. Four hundred and fifty dollars.
Oh, yes. Here it is.
Here it is, Bruce. One  two  three  four hundred  and fifty dollars.
Thank you.
Just a second, Walter. Here, Bruce, here's the check... And, oh, Bruce, here's your wallet. I got it back.
You got it back, eh? There's something funny going on around here.
I'm taking the nine o'clock train, Hildy. And you can meet us at the station.
Fine.
Ain't you got any more sense than to  ? Oh, hhello, Mr. Burns. Why, quite an honor having you come over here.
Hello, Bensinger.
Excuse me, I just want to 
How do you mean?
I was having a little chat about you just this afternoon  with our Mister Duffy.
Nothing  ah  detrimental, I hope.
I should say not! That was one swell story you had in the paper this morning.
Oh, did you  care for the poem, Mr. Burns?
The poem?... The poem was great!
Remember the ending? "  and all is well, outside his cell, But in his heart he hears the hangman Calling and the gallows falling And his whitehaired mother's tears..."
Heartbreaking! How would you like to work for me?
What?
Duffy! I'm sending Bensinger over to see you. Mervyn, isn't it?
No. Roy. Roy V.
Of course! Roy Bensinger, the poet. Of course you wouldn't know! You probably never heard of Shakespeare, either! Put Mr. Bensinger right on the staff. How much are you getting on the Tribune, Roy?
Seventyfive.
I'll give you a hundred and a by line.
Let him have everything he wants. Now hustle and write me a story from the point of view of the escaped man. He hides, cowering... Afraid of every light, of every sound... hears footsteps... his heart going like that... And all the time they're closing in... Get the sense of an animal at bay!
Sort of a Jack London style?
Exactly!
I got my rhyming dictionary in 
It doesn't have to rhyme!
I'll keep you in mind.
Au revoir, mon capitaine.
Bon jour!
Can't you say 'hello' to a fellow?
Hildy!
Are you back?
No, just a farewell appearance, batting for Sweeney. I'm going into business for myself.
What doing?
I'm getting married tomorrow.
Well, congratulations! Good luck!
Who is it?
What's the idea of locking this?
That's Bensinger. That's his desk.
Bensinger  of the Tribune.
Open this door!
Hello, Harvard! Got anything new on the hanging?
Why don't you fellows get your own news?
This is Murphy. More slop on the hanging.
A double guard's been thrown around the jail, municipal buildings, railroad terminals, and elevated stations to prepare for the expected general uprising of radicals at the hour of execution.
Ready? The Sheriff's just put two hundred more relatives on the payroll to protect the city against the Red Army  which is leaving Moscow in a couple of minutes. Up a dime.
The Sheriff has just received four more letters threatening his life, but he says nothing can interfere with his duty.
And to prove to the voters that the Red Menace is on the level, the Sheriff has written himself four more letters, threatening his life. I know he wrote 'em on account of the misspellings.
When your father died I saw to it that the grounds were kept up.
The money in the estate was enough to cover your costs?
Oh yes, more than enough.
You're one of William's kids, huh?
His only kid.
Sure take after him. Never seen a father and son look more alike.
We were very close.
The resemblance is amazing.
When may I expect the cleaners?
I'll send them right up.
Morning Mr. North
Same.
Such a pretty day. If I live to be 90 I'll never tire of mornings like this. Mind you I'm 74 now.
No.
Yes sir. When you get older your priorities change. It's the simple things that count. Without them growing old can be a very lonely thing.
I'm sure that's true.
Nothing to be sorry about.
Just your pappy scared some.
Ah Steven, it is good to see you.
I only just heard of Conor. I came up from Catroch as soon as I could.
You're a kind man to be sure.
I thought it only proper to pay me last respects to the family.
Steven, Conor didn't die.
But I had heard his wounds were mortal.
They were Steven, they were. It's been a miracle it has. He lasted right through and healed. No one in the village has ever seen anything like it. Ever.
This your present address?
Yes.
Mr. Taupin, what were you doing in that alley?
I was walking by when I heard a shout. Your men came right after.
Did you know the victim?
No.
His name was Iman Fasil if that jogs your memory.
It doesn't.
He was carrying a Syrian passport and had been in the country less than a week.
Two days ago a Bulgarian national was murdered the same way. He'd also been in the country less than a week. What is your citizenship?
American.
Do you make a habit of hanging out in that neigh borhood at night?
What are you getting at?
Let's just say that in my years with this department I've seen more than one well dressed business man look for a hand job on 14th Street.
What were _you_ looking for?
That's none of your business.
You're wrong.
Do you know what this is?
I presume it's a sword.
A claymore to be exact. You wouldn't know anything about it would you?
Your murder weapon?
It was covered with Mr. Fasil's fingerprints, but none of his blood.
A mystery.
For the moment.
My condolences.
Where were you Tuesday night?
Home.
A neighbor saw your car leave.
He's mistaken.
Look, I don't know what the hell you're up to, but I think I've got a pretty good idea.
Do you?
All I need is time.
I've got all the time in the world. Except right now. If you will excuse me, Lieutenant.
We have some unfinished business.
Are you here?
I want you to come to me.
And if I refuse?
Give me an address where I can forward Miss Cart wright's head.
Yes laddie, I have her.
Should I care?
Long time.
Not so long.
You've been here from the start.
My quarry grows clever with age. And the others, incompetent.
Friend of yours?
Of sorts.
I do hope she enjoys a good show.
Run!
MACLEOD!
You disappoint me. I thought you'd finally gotten over that sort of thing.
Leave her out of this.
As you wish.
What's the point?
This isn't done. Get up.
What's the point! You have me, finish it!
I have waited forever for this. You will not cheapen it, little boy.
Tradition.
It's all we have.
Go to hell.
Perhaps Miss Cartwright would like to play.
Leave her alone.
Get up.
Spare a chair?
Kahn?
Are you going to offer me a chair or leave me standing here all night?
Sit.
How are you?
Head still secure to the neck.
How did you find me?
How many places this side of the Atlantic serve lager and lime?
Old habits die hard. Waitress! A round of Nitzhic! Peasant drool, I know. But it's the closest thing they stock to my side of the fence.
What are you doing here?
It is the gathering, my friend. The settling of old scores.
And have you something to settle with me?
Not tonight. Tonight I have a drink with an old friend.
It's good to see you, Kahn.
I'll never forget the look on that Papal commander's face when his "heretic stronghold" turned out to be a rock full of whores climbing all over Neuvich.
Neuvich, the clown of the crusades.
But then rides up Pope Pius who calmly brushes the dust from his papal cross, climbs off his papal horse, draws his papal sword and asks just what the hell is going on. And what did Neuvich, dear dear drunken Neuvich do?
Offered the Pope one of his whores.
Had a great swing with his blade. For a Pope.
Good times then. A man could stretch his legs without bring ing half the world down around his ears. Not like now.
He found us even there.
He always did.
I haven't drunk this much since
Since you last saw me.
I love zoos. Ever since I was a kid.
You were never a kid.
I knew his greatgrandfather.
You're insane.
No, seriously. We used to shoot pool together in Rangoon.
How do you do it, Kahn? How do you live so full of life for so long?
Tasting and enjoying life is the only thing of value we have. All else is just marking time. You're marking time.
I've had a few more concerns.
The pressure only comes when you let the taste slip into your mouth.
You're wrong.
You don't run as hard, MacLeod. You just don't run as hard anymore.
Where!
I don't know.
What name is he using?
Smith. Carl Smith.
How many came?
The last four.
And the Bulgarian?
He got him. He always does. Eventually.
He knows I'm here. How?
None of this would be happening if you hadn't run...
_Answer_ me.
We learned he'd found the immigration notaries in Liverpool and traced them to New York. Then he figured out the birth records in Church Hill...
I want people in here to check over every piece of this stuff.
Figure she's with him?
Yeah.
We ran down that Church Hill info. She's right. There is no Richard Taupin.
Any other I.D.s come up?
Not yet. Called FBI yesterday. Thompson's going to try CIA this afternoon. Y'never know.
Should have seen him the first night. Son of a bitch stood there with a quart of blood on his pant leg and didn't even blink.
You'd think he'd had practice.
Are you sure?
Won't know till the records department comes back with it this after noon. Looks good though. They found the receipt in his townhouse. It was pretty smeared but had Taupin's father listed as a signatory.
Round up who you can and put them on standby.
Think we should call the local P.D. out there first?
No. I want this to be all ours.
Here. The hook should go just below the head, where the meat is toughest.
Thanks.
Fish are creatures of habit. They like their food where they're used to it. At the top, hiding in old leaves.
Where did you learn that?
My father taught me.
Your father must be smart.
Yes, he was.
Ah, Conor, how you look a man.
Have you time for some thing to eat?
Your grandfather wore that in his service to the King, and I to fight for the Duke.
Must he go?
Aye. It is his duty. All of ours.
But Ian, he's still but a boy.
He's a MacLeod.
Your name?
Mulet.
I thought I gave orders the regiment was to drill.
Staff sargeant detailed me to prepare firewood for the break fast cooking.
What is your position?
Second musketeer.
I understand you joined up in Bremen.
You seem to understand a great deal.
I am a Major, Private. You would do well remembering that when addressing me.
Excuse me, "sir". I thought we spoke as equals.
Equals?
If you wish to play games, Major.
Wait. I think we understand each other.
We have no understanding.
Then it is time two of us did. You are very young. I was once young. I can help.
Help? I've seen others "help". Somehow a head always ended up on the counter.
It can be different. It must be.
It never changes, Major.
We must talk.
Stay out of it.
Don't threaten me, Private.
Who do you think I am? One of your freckle faced children waiting to die tomorrow? "Threaten you"? You and I just living will always be a threat. Forever. Look at your life, Major. Look at mine. Nothing there but threat. Threats and nothingness. It's what we live for.
Do not turn your back on me.
You are really going to force this, aren't you?
Either you are with me or against me.
You see Major? You are not so different...
I had no choice.
Complete your inspection?
They're nothing but boys. It will be a slaughter tomorrow.
I doubt much can change that. The enemy has five brigades waiting for us.
We need more time.
Won't get it. We are a sacrifice. A diversion.
Eat up Dupont. It will probably be your last.
Not likely.
Who am I deceiving?
Certainly not me.
State of grace and all that.
Tradition.
It's all we have.
Not so scared.
Perhaps not. You seem to have misplaced a private. No doubt by now his head is stranger to his neck.
No doubt.
You surprise me. Eliminating a rival like that. Such are the actions of a man of conquest. I was mistaken. 300 years have turned the boy's fear into ambit ion.
You're wrong.
I know you very well, Conor MacLeod. And I can see the truth beginning to make itself clear to you. Mulet, Romirez, they were fools without vision. It was destined that the board would be cleared for the real players.
Romirez understood. Not you.
Romirez is dust.
Finish your prayers?
Finish yours?
Our common heritage. I am your only real friend, you know. The only one who truly understands you. I look forward to the day we meet again. And I kill you.
So sure?
Oh please. Another one.
What would you like?
Something pretty.
Like you.
That's wonderful. Where did you ever learn it?
Far away.
Kiss me.
David.
Do you have cause to bothering us?
I'm your future husband, remember?
I have no future husband.
I don't understand. Not a week ago your father gave us his blessing.
My future husband died in battle against the Sutherlands.
What are you saying? I'm standing here as real as you.
You cannot be real, Conor. You had the last rites. No man has been cut half as bad and lived.
But I did live.
Live? In less than a week you're prancing about the country like a squirrel.
So why the crazy talk? It's a miracle it is. Saint Andrew has smiled on me. On us.
Some think not.
Who?
There's rumor in the village. Some call it magic.
That's mad. Surely you don't take their word?
I don't know, Conor. It's not natural. Maybe something has touched you.
You're sounding like that mad woman, Widow Baggins.
Me father has taken back my hand.
Please not be touching me, Conor.
I'll not take that kind of talk from you. From those others below, maybe. But not from you.
Leave me alone, Conor. Please.
You're not talking sense, Mara!
If you send me away now, Mara, I'll not come looking for you.
Do what you must.
Afternoon.
Your name is Conor?
Aye.
Juan Cid Romirez. Chief surveyor and alchemist.
You're not from these parts.
I am from Spain. And I would like a moment of your time.
I haven't much to offer, Mr. Romirez from Spain, but you're welcome to what's here.
Please go to no trouble.
Your back, it would seem perhaps you were injured in battle?
Five years past me clan fought another over some thing I cannot even re member.
Your marks would suggest great injury.
I was nearly killed.
But you lived.
I did at that.
And but for a mark you are well as any man, no?
Aye.
I should imagine that your recovery must have alarmed your fellow villagers, perhaps giving them reason to invent an explanation. And a solution.
I was driven out.
And now you live in a small village miles away from all you knew.
How can you know this?
First food, no? A good meal makes conversation so much easier.
Hmm, que rico. What is it you call this?
Pheasant.
You Scots have a way with game. It still has life in it. Spirit. Back home the food is so...domestic.
Why are you here?
I was sent by his majesty of Spain to Inverness as a con sultant on matters of metal.
You're a long way from Inverness.
In my travels I heard the story of the MacLeod boy struck down and brought from the hand of death by powers not of this Earth.
You know me home. Me name.
It was time for our paths to cross.
When I was a boy a cart driven by a drunken fool crushed me. All thought I would die or be maimed for life. But I healed quickly. And like you I paid the price for being different.
You are the same?
Do you ever feel a flow, as if some thing were pushing against you?
Yes. Always.
Does it change with me in the room?
It is less.
You feel you know me.
I don't know why.
We are brothers.
He told me there could be only one.
Some cling to sanity through time with the one continuity and trad0 ition their lives have known: The Game. You and I Conor, we are different from all others around us. You know this, you can feel it. We are flesh and bone like any man, but unlike our neighbors we are rather difficult to injure, permanently.
I don't understand.
You are still so very young.
I'm twentytwo.
Not even a single lifetime.
Conor, you and I, we cannot be killed.
What?
We are immortal.
It is as you are.
No!
Listen to me. Hear the words.
This is madness!
It is the truth.
No!
Three days you've laid there. It's time you ate.
This can't be.
You are not dead, boy. Accept it.
This is monstrous. I'll burn in hell for all eternity.
You'd have to die first. Aqui.
What is to become of me? Am I to wander the Earth forever like a ghost?
You will live. Survive.
Then they were right. I am evil. This is God's punishment.
You have done nothing wrong Conor MacLeod.
Oh my God. Oh my God I'm lost.
Why does he want to kill me?
You recall how I spoke of the push you feel and how I make it less?
Aye.
It is always less with my living. Far or near. But if I were to die the push would become stronger than ever before. There is power in this. And as long as you and I live, The Knight can never have it all.
But we cannot be killed.
There is an imperfection. For all your healing, if your head ever leaves your neck, you are dead. You can survive anything but steel against your threat. Then it is over. The end.
How can I stop such a man?
Hide. Run to the ends of the Earth till you learn. You must learn to defend yourself. In this I can help.
Why?
We are brothers. And you are a defense of sorts.
Harder. Concentrate harder.
Me arm hurts.
Again. Try again.
Harder! You swing like an impotent cow!
Go to hell.
Oh, the boy has a mouth, now if only he had an arm.
Impotent cow.
Muy Bien!
It will take less effort as you learn.
It's like to kill me first.
You have a gift. One you must protect.
And what is this great gift that cannot be seen or smelt?
The Fabric of life. The spark that allows the passing of existence from one generation to another.
If that was meant to be an ex planation Mr. Romirez from Spain, I'm afraid you've failed.
You're no match for Scot, Mr. Romirez. We're raised as riders.
Point conceeded, Mr. MacLeod.
What is the fascinatioon? It is only a leaf.
All living things pay dues, Conor. They must be respected for that.
As they age they contribute to a sum that is the kindling from which all future life comes. To feel it, to know it, is to be in touch with the will of every living thing.
I do not think I like the sound of that.
It does not feel nearly as frightening as it sounds. But the consequences of such feelings can be very frightening. For it gives you great strength. The strength of _knowledge_. The ability to stand between the giving of what has always been to what will always be.
I feel hardly nothing.
You have not been fully trained. But you will learn. And you will be good, I can feel that. You have apt itude. This is why our friend is so concerned.
But why be so concerned about me?
This power is divided amongst you, me, and others like cuts in a pie. But the cuts are not equal. Some, like you and he, have more. Much more.
And you?
I am a small player. But if by helping you I can keep that monster from being the last, then perhaps my life has meant something.
I am not ready for this.
You must be. You have responsibilities. You must learn the rules. You can never attract attention to yourself, never show the side that will draw others to you. You will always know when you are in the presence of another. Beware. But more importantly Conor MacLeod, will be your battle against time. In the coming years you will see kingdoms rise then rot like wheat. People will become a transitory, pathetic lot. The only constant you will know will be the others and the tradition their greed and quest represent. But life without morality, without the ability to truly taste the sweetness of wine and love, is no life at all. That is how the others exist. Nothing more than walking corpses living only to slaughter each other in an insane quest to be the last. Keep your soul sewed to the earth. Do not become one of them.
Of course.
You are young, inexperienced. You do not know what time can do. How it can sap all pity, all love.
That is not me.
With the proper tools, Conor, a naive man can be much more dangerous than an evil one.
Go ahead, Senor. I have my friend to keep me company.
I'll be back when I can.
Requiem acer'nam donaei
What are you doing man?
Et lux perpetua
You'll not be bringing the church into this.
Luceat ei
Be quiet.
Auditorium nostrum
Stop.
In nomine sanctus esperitu
Stop!
I don't believe him.
Why?
He's too cool. Too sharp. I think he's got something to do with it.
Hang on a sec, you did your little favor for the boys downtown, I'm sure your uncle and the rest are perfectly capable of taking it from here.
I've seen nobleman swords that weren't as well preserved. It's just a hunk of peasant iron. Why would he be carrying it around in an alley?
Someone should check him out. Maybe a collection somewhere got knocked over. He has one, he might have two.
You see that desk? _Your_ desk? You see the crap piled up on it?
Give it a rest Ned, huh?
Come on Brenna, your ass is already in a sling, don't drag me into it.
All I need is for you to check the name.
You talked to your supervisor lately? He's burning up the place about you just dropping out of sight. That on top of the cops bugging him.
I'll take care of that Corey, but I need this now.
Corey, you _owe_ me.
It's that important?
Yeah.
Good way to lose your job.
Some job. Card filing and cabinet dusting. Four years in this dump and I haven't written anything for Wilson that a wounded yak couldn't do.
I liked the bit you did about Baltic chastity belts. Too bad no one else did.
It's bullshit. Everything. My job, the people I get involved with, I'm up to here with it.
You always were hard to impress.
Who is it?
Not who. What. Worstick's a town in Pennsylvania.
A murder.
You better have a warrant. That's my notebook, you've got no right to be sticking your fingers into it.
I've got a morgue filling up with bodies. That's my right.
What do you want from me?
Well, the man of the hour that we all would like to talk to about now has apparently skipped town. And all of a sudden the Smithsonian's ambulence chaser is an expert on missing persons.
I'm calling an attorney.
You and I should talk first.
We've got nothing to say.
What are you going to tell them? That you're protecting a man who's killed four people?
Four?
All fashionably without heads.
Spare me the details.
But there's more. Wednesday someone played javelin with the cemetary curator in Felton, Delaware. Some locals spotted two cars with D.C. plates and surprise surprise, they turn out to be registered to our own Brenna Cartwright and the ever popular Richard Taupin.
What are you getting at, Moran?
You've been a busy little beaver. Especially with that records mess up in Church Hill. Your notes are very complete. Naturally my feelings were crushed when you didn't rush right over and tell us what you knew. In fact, we're considering book ing the ambulence chaser as an accessory to murder.
It'll never stick.
But we might just give it the 'ole college try. What with the court back ups, it could be days before you got an arraignment. But then, I'm sure the flunkout neice of the D.A. knows all about that.
You're an asshole, Moran.
I want Taupin.
What makes you so sure he's the one?
Just for laughs we raided wonder boy's house. There was a gallon of one of the corpse's blood in his carpet. I think it was about then I withdrew his name for humanitarian of the year.
What's all of this got to do with me?
What were you doing in Felton?
Research. If your pal was there I never saw him.
I have witnesses that can put the two of you together.
Never take up poker, Detective.
Don't be stupid, lady. Your neck can be sliced as fast as anyone else's.
Forget it.
I'm just curious.
You're never "just curious". You've met my neice, Brenna.
Aren't you getting a little old for this? You flunked out of law school.
Now there's a new topic.
Don't they have enough for you to do at the castle?
Forgers do it all the time. They take the birth certificate of some one who died young and use it to get legit I.D. Usually they carry it long enough to pass some bad checks then dump it.
Thanks.
Call your mother. You never call her.
Do you play?
Yes.
Very traditional.
Miss Cartwright, what is it I can do for you?
I'd like to ask you about the claymore.
It's not mine.
It's quite rare you know, some thing so common in its time so well looked after all these years.
Miss Cartwright, unless you have come here to sell the sword, there's very little I can help you with. Now if you will excuse me, I have a great deal of work to do.
Byzantine?
Basil the II.
Charming guy, Basil. Once after beating an army of Serbians he blinded all but
All but one out of a hundred, I know. All left to be led like donkeys back home. Now if you will please
Good reflexes.
Good day, Miss Cartwright.
Someone beat you.
Have you taken to touring small town cemetaries, Miss Cartwright?
Grave robbers?
Probably.
Who?
People like that rarely leave business cards.
Does Carl Smith?
I don't know what you're talking about.
I think you do. Better yet, I don't think anything was stolen because nothing was there in the first place. And I think Mr. Smith, whoever he is, now knows that.
You have an active imagination.
I've been to Church Hill.
Miss Cartwright, you are involving yourself in matters that do not concern you. I strongly suggest you return to Washington and stay out of small town cemetaries.
I have friends.
I doubt that. Good day, Miss Cartwright.
Jesus Christ.
You'll be safe here. He won't kill in a church.
Why not?
Tradition.
What the hell is going on?
He tried to kill me last night.
Where?
Dupont Circle.
Who is he?
At the moment? Carl Smith.
And you?
What will you do now?
You needn't worry Miss Cartwright. I've been at this a very long time.
He called you "MacLeod".
Not your concern.
I left a man dead in Felton. But you don't really care, do you?
That bothers you?
He was innocent.
He's dead. Whatever I may or may not feel means exceedingly little to him now.
What about me?
You?
I'm a witness to a murder. That seems to put me pretty high on your friend's chop list.
Have you gone to the police?
No.
Why not? I'm sure they'd love to hear your story.
I'd rather hear yours.
You are being foolish.
I'm a historian, Mr. Taupin. Only once in a lifetime do you stare history in the face.
Go home.
He sees me as a threat.
Are you?
No.
No one knows you're here?
No. I had to talk to you.
You had to do _nothing_!
You're wrong.
You're a fool.
Maybe.
Is this what you killed them with?
You've been listening to rumors.
Our cars were seen together in Felton. They're calling me an accessory to murder.
You are. Now.
What's all that?
Richard Taupin has become cumbersome. It would be best if he just disappeared.
You did kill those men.
Not all of them.
When you finish, what then?
I go my way and you can write all you want about the big bad Mr. Taupin.
You make it all sound so simple.
The only real difficulty comes in changing over the ownership of property I've aquired. That requires certain records and most importantly a personal appearance at the county seat in Gettysburg. But that's where you come in.
You want me to front for you.
The less exposure I recieve around government buildings the better. You, as Mrs. Taupin, will attract considerably less attention than I.
There was a man once. Just a simple woodcarver. But he understood. More than anyone he could see to the heart of it. It never ends. Today is the same as the first. Tomorrow will be the same as today. So much time. And all of it wasted. You love history?
Yes.
I wish I could.
The estate stuff is pretty straight forward. Just lots of forms and an appearance at the county seat.
It will take some time for the forms to clear before you go to Gettysburg.
No. So what now? We just wait?
Yes.
Well, as long as we're stuck here.
It's some sort of party the town is throwing.
They do it each year.
I thought it might be a nice break from all of this.
Maybe it would do us both good.
There's a catch. You're supposed to wear 19th century clothing.
Here, try this. I suppose they're still making women the same as back then.
It's beautiful.
A little dusty.
I don't know any of these. I'll make a fool of myself.
Follow me.
William Taupin seems to have left his mark.
Yes.
And you are William Taupin, aren't you?
Yes.
You're using your son's name.
No. Just the child of some lonely girl I gave a ride to. When they died I put them in a grave with my name on it. Twenty years later I became the son.
Then you must be at least 70 years old.
At least.
That's impossible.
It's frightening sometimes the way you talk about other people's lives.
A factor of age.
I hope I never get that old.
You won't.
I must be insane. Leaving work, ditching cops. All to follow a murderer. A very old murderer, but a murderer just the same.
Why are you here?
I've been telling myself it's the award winning journal article I'm going to write. But it's not. It's you.
I see.
I'm not even sure why.
Hardly a reason to run off with a murderer.
My life has been chock full of people with complications and weak nesses. I can't stand it. But you're different. It's in your hands. A clarity.
You are a very perceptive young woman.
Just a little crazy.
Who are you?
That would be difficult to explain.
I'd like you to try.
I carried that rifle in World War I. This book is a 16th Century policy report for the King of Austria. The diploma is my con ference of degree in Latin from Trinity College. Class of 1672. It goes on.
That's why Smith called you MacLeod.
Yes.
He knows about you.
He is older than I.
What could possibly be worth all this murder and distruction.
Sometimes I think it's just for something to do. A conquest to be the last. Something to hold onto while everything else around you withers and blows away. Some thing to replace the love that can never work.
That's insane.
Perhaps. There is something more. An inheritance.
Of bodies.
I didn't kill the watchman.
You killed those other two.
Not the same.
What about that family in '31?
Sometimes innocents become involved.
You and your buddy make a real team, don't you? Exchanging eloquent threats in iambic pen tameter while hacking up all the innocents in between.
There are differences.
You kill with your left hand?
I haven't killed _you_.
Is that a threat?
Don't.
Come here, Brenna.
Damn you.
What is it like? Being you?
Empty. And fear. Fear of those that would kill you and fear of those that would love you. It can never last, and in the end you always end up destroying both.
But you're known so much. History I'll only read about.
It's all the same. Half lives that never go away.
What is it you want?
All of it finished.
Gettysburg's an hour's drive at most. You should be back by nightfall.
Will I see you again?
Be careful. Don't stay any longer than you have to.
What's wrong?
I can't stand it. Oh God, I can't stand it!
What is it?
I'm the last. Oh Christ, I'm the _last one_!
Get out.
No!
I'll destroy you. I've destroyed everything I've ever touched! Oh God...
The emptyness. The years and years of void. Nothingness. Bordered only by the quest for ultimate nothingness. Who would have guessed?
The inheritance.
Not power. Not control.
Life. It is the gift and the under standing of life.
You have lived forever.
Life is only life when it is bounded by death. The inheritance is death. The gift is the finality of life. To be part of the fabric. The inside. I love you Brenna.
It will be horrible. The future. I may die tomorrow or 10,000 tomorrows. I can promise you nothing. Nothing but a moment. Maybe two. But a moment of love, is that not worth a lifetime?
Yes.
This is against the rules.
So's playing choochoo with two high school cheerleaders in the middle of
Okay okay.
You owe me. Besides, I'm cute.
Taupin, Richard Marshall. Born March 16, 1945 in Church Hill, Maryland. Received first driver permit 1967 in Philadelphia.
Church Hill, that's pretty close, isn't it?
Anything in Maryland is close.
Would you like more tea?
No thank you, I'm fine.
He was unsual.
Why?
Well, this is a small town, and it was even smaller then. Most all the babies I delivered were from local families. Richard's parents were just passing through when his mother's time came. I did it right here at the house.
Then you didn't know Richard later on.
No.
I've been trying to find somebody who knew him and any connections his family might have had with museums or historical societies.
Don't know about any of that. Suppose nobody does.
I don't follow you.
Poor little tyke didn't have a chance. Hopelessly premature. He died a few days after he was born.
The boy _died_?
Mother too. Sad case it was. The young lady just couldn't make it through labor. Never even saw her son.
Have you spoken to anyone else about this?
There was this one fella. Asked a lot of questions. I was out of town but I heard he spent near a full day in the records office.
Would you remember his name?
Carl Smith.
That stuff'll put you away if you're not careful.
There was a Count. Count Dusan. He would invite the local peasants to his chateau, fill them full of wine, then slice their bellies so he could reuse it. The symmetry of that somehow always appealed to me.
You're very macabre.
It's my birthday.
Happy birthday.
Thanks.
Doesn't have a head, does he?
This one came unassembled.
How's your uncle? I hardly ever see him anymore.
Fine.
Didn't look like it came from "ToysAreUs", that's why I called you.
Didn't think it was my buddy over there.
Figured you knew more about swords than I did.
Claymore.
Huh?
Scottish claymore. Take a French epee, add twenty pounds of ballast so it means business, and you've got a claymore.
You're the expert.
It's in good condition.
I can't figure out why he's doing it. He's been Richard Taupin at least since 1967. And the guys rich. You should see the stuff he has in that shop.
Maybe he's hiding from something.
Some guy named Smith was asking about him in Church Hill. I passed his name around with your buddies downtown but they drew a blank. So he isn't a cop. District anyway.
Probably just some exec ducking an exwife.
Dr. Kidell had a picture in his file of the funeral. The father looked just like Richard. Even had a mark on his cheek.
How old is Richard?
P.D. says 41, but he barely looks 30.
Find the father. That should clear things up.
Taupin, isn't that the guy Moran picked up the other night?
Yeah.
He'd want to know about all this.
Mr. Congeniality? Let him find his own clues. There's a journal article in this somewhere.
Uncle Joey's little girl. Can't get the taste out of her mouth.
Well, the cream of society awaits. If you're ever in the neighborhood...
Sure.
I warned you.
Go to hell.
Eno import. Sigue Sigue Sputnik. Break beats. Serge Gainsbourg. Ryuchi Sakamoto, Syd Barrett... What's going on here? Are you guys stealing for other people now?
Naw. Those are for us.
Oh really. You two are slamming to Nico now?
I think you have more.
Well we don't.
I can't frisk you but the cops can.
Jesus. That thing's been in the bargain bin for six months! Was it just your criminal nature or what? Hell, I would've given it to you for free.
No, we...
Uh, yes I, like, do... It's simple. You make the tracks  recording studio  deliver them to the pressing plant where a master is cut, the master is then dubbed to submasters, which are the "mothers," as their called, for each press in the plant. You press the CD's or records, put in your cover art, and that's it.
Records are those big round black things, right?
Fuck off.
It's rough. But it shows promise. We record a couple of songs right, in a studio. I'll take care of the rest. I'll put out your record. Any profits after recouping expenses get split down the middle, between us and you guys.
Wait a minute. Island Records charged U2 a million five against their overhead for one plane ride.
We're not there yet, Justin.
I'm Vince.
Whatever.
We saw this ad in the personals for two swingers lookin' for a Renaissance fair.
Nice.
What's the name of your label?
What do you think?
It's the best collection I've ever seen.
Give me fifty bucks and they're all yours.
These are worth at least, I don't know 
I know what they're worth. Give me fifty and get them out.
But you must have 
I must have nothing. Their my husband's.
And you must not be getting along too well right now, huh?
He's in Jamaica with a twentythree yearold. A friend of my daughter's. He had the fucking nerve to call me and ask me to borrow some money and I told him to fuck off, so he asked me to sell his singles collection and send him a check for whatever I go, minus a ten percent commission. Which reminds me. Can you make sure you give me a five? I want to frame it and put it on the wall.
It must have taken him a long time to get them together.
Years. This collection is as close as he's ever come to an achievement.
Look. Can I pay you properly? You don't have to tell him what you got. Send him fortyfive bucks and blow the rest. Give it to charity. Or something.
That wasn't part of the deal. I want to be poisonous but fair.
Look... I... I'm sorry. I don't want to be any part of this.
Suit yourself. There are plenty of others who will.
That's why I'm trying to compromise. What about fifteenhundred? They're worth five times that.
Sixty.
Thirteen hundred.
Seventyfive.
Elevenhundred. That's my lowest offer.
And I won't take a penny over ninety.
With eleven hundred he could come home, and that's the last thing I want.
I'm sorry but I think you better talk to someone else.
Fine.
Can I buy this Otis Redding single off you?
Sure. Ten cents.
Oh, come on! Let me give you ten dollars for this, and you can give the rest away for all I care.
Okay. Because you took the trouble to come up here. And because you've got principles. But that's it. I'm not selling them to you one by one.
Yeah?
Hi, Rob. It's your mother.
Hi, Mom.
Everything all right?
Great. Superfantastic.
How's the store?
So so. Up and down.
Your lucky Laura's doing so well. If it wasn't for her, I don't think either of us would ever sleep...
She left. She's gone.
What do you mean? Where did she go?
How would I know? Gone. Girlfriend. Leave. Not say where gone. Laura move out.
Well call her mother.
She just called. She doesn't even know. It's probably the last time I'll ever hear her voice. That's weird, isn't it? You spend Christmas at somebody's house, you know, and you worry about their operations and you see them in their bathrobe, and... I dunno...
Hello? Anybody there?
I'm all right, if that's what's upsetting you.
You know that's not what's upsetting me.
Well it fucking should be, shouldn't it?
I knew this would happen. What are you going to do Rob?
I'm going to drink this bottle of wine watch TV and go to bed. Then tomorrow I'll get up and go to work.
And after that?
Meet a nice girl and have children. I promise the next time we talk I'll have it all sorted out.
I knew this was going to happen.
Then what are you getting so upset about?
What did Laura say? Do you know why she left?
It's got nothing to do with marriage, if that's what you're getting at.
So you say. I'd like to hear her side of it.
Mom! For the last fucking time, I'm telling you Laura didn't want to get married! She is not that kind of girl! To use a phrase. That's not what happens now.
Well I don't know what happens now, apart from you meet someone, you move in, she goes. You meet someone, you move in, she goes.
Good. 'Cause I'm enjoying myself.
Good.
So you live in Chicago now?
Yup. Not far from here, actually.
Don't you like that?
No, no, I love, it's just, thinking you're, you must be so sick of it... Well.
Hi, Marie.
Everything go alright?
She just wanted to pick up some stuff. No big thing. A relief, actually.
God, I hate that time. That pick up stuff time. I just went through that before I came here. You know that song "Patsy Cline Times Two" I play? That's about me and my ex dividing up our record collections.
It's a great song.
Thank you.
Is that why you came to Chicago in the first place? Because of, you know, dividing up your record collection and stuff?
Yup.
You share a place with TBone?
No way! I'd cramp his style. And I wouldn't want to listen to all that stuff happening on the other side of the bedroom wall. I'm way to unattached for that.
I understand completely.
Awhile back, Dick and Barry and I agreed that what really matters is what you like, not what you are like...
Yeah, but if you heard this band called the Crumblers, you'd 
What do you mean, the Crumblers? You know the Crumblers? Nobody's heard the Crumblers. Except me.
Yeah, I know the Crumblers! I bought a used Blasters album in New York about ten years ago and somebody left a Crumblers single in it. My everything changed for a couple of weeks.
Books, records, films  these things matter. Call me shallow but it's the damn truth, and by this measure I was having one of the best dates of my life.
Yeah, but you know what's his best film and nobody's even seen it?
The Conformist.
Exactly! Fucking exactly!
You haven't even seen it!
Nor have you!
Are you okay?
Yes. You?
For now. But I wouldn't be if I thought this was the end of the evening.
I'm sure it isn't.
Good. In that case, I'll fix us something else to drink. You sticking to the whiskey or you want coffee?
Whiskey.
Tops off two whiskeys and starts into the other room where she sees Rob, standing and holding his jacket.
I'd better go. I gotta get up early. Go over to my parents'.
When I said before that I hoped it wasn't the end of the evening, I was, you know... talking about breakfast and stuff.
I'd like it if you could stay the night.
Oh, right. Alright.
Jesus, so much for delicacy. I pegged you for a master of understatement, beating around the bush and all that buzz.
I use it but I don't understand it when other people use it.
So you'll stay?
Yeah.
Good.
Would you like me to turn the lights out? Or would you like them on?
God, you ask a lot of questions.
Which way are you going?
That way. You?
That way.
And so it is. I'll talk to you later.
I'll call you.
Right.
Rob here.
Hey. It's Liz.
What's happenin'.
You called this morning?
Yeah. I just wanted to thank you for that message last night. It made me feel like... like less of an asshole.
How're you holding up?
Actually, I'm fine. I'm great. Last night I got to thinking, "you know what? Maybe it is time to move on. Maybe we're just not right for each other. Or maybe we are. But time will tell and at this point I'm going to be fine with whatever's meant to be." You know?
Yeah. Like I said, I don't want to take sides. And I like Laura with you. She's more fun, more open. You guys are good together. I just wish you two could, I don't know. I don't think much of this Ian guy 
What's the  hey, Liz 
 No, no, no, don't even. I talked to Laura, Rob. I talked to her and she gave me a little background. And you're a fucking ASSHOLE.
To think I sympathized with you for two seconds! Poor Rob! Laura left him out of nowhere for the schmuck upstairs. You let me believe that!
It's true!
Rob! Two years ago you got Laura pregnant; you then proceeded to cheat on her! You borrowed money from her and never paid a dime back! And then, just a few weeks ago, you told her you were unhappy with her and were "kind of looking around for somebody else!"
Well she 
So the minister says nice things, and then, what, we all troop outside and they bury him?
It's a crematorium.
You're kidding. A crematorium? Jesus.
What difference does it make?
Is Ray going?
No. They don't know him. And Ken liked you. Rob, Ken didn't die for your benefit, you know. It's like everybody's a supporting actor in the film of your life story.
Isn't that how it is for everybody?
Enough, Liz.
Enough of what?
I know I can't speak now because Laura's father died, and I just have to take it because otherwise I'm a bad guy, with the emphasis on guy, selfcentered. Well, I'm fucking not, not all the time, anyway, I'm really sorry Jo. But you know, Liz... I can either stick up for myself or believe everything you say about me and end up hating myself. And maybe you think I should, but it's not much of a life, you know?
Maybe I've been a little unfair. But is this really the time?
Only because it's never the time. I can't go on apologizing my whole life, you know?
If by "we" you are referring to men, then I have to say that just the once would do.
You don't have to go this second. You can stay until whenever.
We've done the hard part now. I might as well, you know...
Well stay for tonight, then.
Jeez. He goes on long enough.
I should be so lucky.
Shit!
Hi.
Hi.
I thought I could give you a lift back.
Are you coming home?
Yes. Well, I'm coming over to your house to get some things.
My house?
How can you like Art Garfunkel and Marvin Gaye? It's like saying you support the Israelis and the Palestinians.
It's not like saying that at all, actually, Rob. Art Garfunkel and Marvin Gaye make pop records 
 Made. Made. Marvin Gaye is dead, his father shot him in 
 whatever, and the Israelis and the Palestinians don't. Art Garfunkel and Marvin Gaye are not engaged in a bitter territorial dispute, and the Israelis and the Palestinians are. Art Garfunkel and Marvin Gaye 
 Alright, alright but 
 and who says I like Marvin Gaye, anyway?
Hey! Marvin Gaye! "Got to Give It Up!" That's our song! Marvin Gaye is responsible for our entire relationship!
Is that right? I'd like a word with him.
But don't you remember?
I remember the song. I just couldn't remember who sang it.
You used to care more about things like Marvin Gaye than you do now. When I first met you, and I made you that tape, you loved it. You said  and I quote  "It was so good it made you ashamed of your record collection."
Well, I liked you. You were a deejay, and I thought you were hot, and I didn't have a boyfriend, and I wanted one.
So you weren't interested in music at all?
Yeah, sure. More so then than I am now. That's life though, isn't it?
But Laura... that's me. That's all there is to me. There isn't anything else. If you've lost interest in that, you've lost interest in everything.
You really believe that?
Yes. Look at me. Look at our  the apartment. What else do I have, other than records and CDs?
And do you like it that way?
Not really.
Have you tackled the Great Reorganization yet?
Don't you think there are more important things to talk about than my record collection?
So. Where have you been staying for the last week?
I think you know that.
Had to work it out for myself, though, didn't I?
I'm sorry. I haven't been very fair to you. That's why I came here to the store this evening. I feel terrible, Rob. This is really hard, you know.
Good. So. Is it my job?
What? Gimme a fucking break. Is that what you think? That your not big enough a deal for me? Jesus, gimme a little credit, Rob.
I don't know. It's one of the things I thought of.
What were the others?
Just the obvious stuff.
What's the obvious stuff?
I don't know.
I guess it's not that obvious, then.
No.
What?
What, what?
Did you say something?
No. So. Is it working out with Ian?
Rob. Don't be childish.
Why is that childish? Your living with the guy! I'm just asking how it's going.
I am not living with him. I've just been staying with him for a few days until I work out what I'm doing. Look, this has nothing to do with anyone else. You know that, don't you? I left because we weren't exactly getting along, and we weren't talking about it. And I suddenly realized that I like my job, and I like what my life is could be turning into, and that I'm getting to a point where I want to get my shit together and I can't really see that ever happening with you, and yeah, yeah, I sort of get interested in someone else, and that went further than it should have, so it seemed like a good time to go. But I have no idea what will happen with Ian in the long run. Probably nothing.
Well then why don't you quit it while you seem to not be ahead?
Look. Maybe you'll grow up and we'll get it together, you and me. Maybe I'll never see either of you again. I don't know. All I know is that it's not a good time to be living here.
So, what, you haven't definitely decide to dump me? There's still a chance we'll get back together?
I don't know.
Well, if you don't know, there's a chance, right? It's like, if someone was in the hospital and he was seriously ill and the doctor said, I don't know if he's got a chance of survival or not, then that doesn't mean the patient's definitely going to die, now does it? It means he might live. Even if it's only a remote possibility.
I suppose so.
So we have a chance of getting back together again.
Oh, Rob, shut up.
Hey, I just want to know where I stand. What chance 
 I don't fucking know what chance you fucking have!
Well if you could tell me roughly it would help.
Okay, okay, we have a nine percent chance of getting back together. Does that clarify the situation?
Yeah. Great.
I'm too tired for this now. I know I'm asking a lot, but will you take off for a while so I can get my stuff packed up? I need to be able to think while I do it and I can't think while you're here.
No problem. If I can ask one question.
Fine. One.
It sounds stupid.
Nevermind.
You won't like it.
Just ask it!
Is it better?
Is what better? Better than what?
Well. Sex, I guess. Is sex with him better?
Jesus Christ, Rob. Is that really what's bothering you?
Of course it is.
You really think it would make a difference either way?
I don't know.
Well the answer is that I don't know either. We haven't done it yet.
Never?
I haven't felt like it.
But not even before, when he was living upstairs?
No. I was living with you, remember? We've slept together but we haven't made love. Not yet. But I'll tell you one thing. The sleeping together is better.
The sleeping together is better but not the sex because you haven't done it was him yet.
Will you please just go?
Hi.
Hi. I've been looking for an envelope of my receipts from last month and I'm thinking I didn't take them with me. Have you seen them around?
I'll look for 'em. How you doing?
I'm sorry to call, but I need that stuff...
Fine, I'm sure it's in the file at home. I'll call you when I find it, and then we'll talk.
We'll talk some other time.
Great... That's great.
So, how are you?
Have you slept with him yet?
I told you I slept with him.
No, not  I mean have you, you know 
Is that why you wanted to see me?
I guess.
Oh, Rob. What do you want me to say?
I want you to say that you haven't, and I want it to be the truth.
You kind of have to start with Elvis Costello, but where? "Motel Matches?" "I Want You?" "I Hope You're Happy Now?" "Green Shirt?" His records should be sealed in cases that say "in case of vicious betrayal, smash glass." "Where Did You Sleep Last Night," sure, but by Robert Johnson or by Nirvana? Maybe a Liz Phair track. There are a couple to get angry at instead of being angry with. Some devil's advocate stuff. The Silver Jews could be good when you're ready to start putting it all behind you... But I think we're getting ahead of ourselves there. Ah. Dylan. Bob fucking Dylan. Now Bob Dylan would The phone rings. He pulls off his headphones and picks it up but says nothing.
You must have known it would happen. You couldn't have been entirely unprepared. Like you said, I've been living with the guy. We were bound to get around to it sometime.
And anyway, I keep trying to tell you, that's not really the point, is it? The point is we got ourselves into an awful mess, Rob... Are you there? What are you thinking?
Nothing.
We can meet for another drink if you want. So I can explain it better. I owe you that much.
Look, I gotta go. I work too, you know.
Will you call me?
I don't have your number.
Call me at work. We can arrange to meet properly. I don't want this to be the last conversation we have. I know what you're like.
You do, huh.
Hello.
It's me.
I figured it was. Where are you?
I think the big question here is where are you, if you don't mind my saying so, and I think I know where you are. You're running. On the run. You're running from a point that everyone hits in any relationship, and you're just going to hit it again with Ian but it's going to be with a World Music bunny rabbitlooking earthshoewearing "Doctor Who"watching twit who doesn't really understand you, not the way that I do and will more in the future, and you'll have just wasted more time and arrive in the exact same place that you're in now, only later. And with... him.
I'm not  hold on...
Are you still in love with me?
Jesus. I do not know. I'll talk to you later.
Think about what I said. I mean, if you want to experiment, or whatever 
I'm not experimenting. Why don't you go experiment.
I don't want to. Don't need to. I love you.
You don't ever think about other people?
No... not really... I mean, I think about it... but no, I don't really think about it.
I called and called but you were out. I thought I'd be gone before you got back.
Is that the last of it?
Yep. I might have missed some stuff. I'm so used to some things being here that I don't even notice them.
Those look heavy. Where's Ian?
He's at home. Listen, I can't believe he went to the store. I'm mortified, actually. I'm really sorry. He had no right to do that, and I told him so.
It was kind of funny.
I'm sure.
You still together? Going all right?
I don't really want to talk about it, to be honest.
That bad, eh?
You know what I mean.
Fix it up. It'll make you feel better.
I'll bet you can't remember what you were doing here, can you? I mean, how much are you making now? Sixty? Seventy? And you were living in this shitty place.
You know I didn't mind. And it's not as if Ray's place is any better.
I'm sorry, but can we get this straight? What is his fucking name, Ian or Ray? What do you call him?
Ray. I hate Ian.
I hate him too. So I just call him "Mavis." Or "Sissyboy." Or "Mavis the Sissyboy."
This is where you're supposed to say that you haven't laughed this much in ages, and then you see the error of your ways.
You make me laugh much more than Ray does, if that's what you're getting at. But I already knew you could make me laugh. It's everything else I don't know about.
You know I'm a good person.
Mmm hmm.
You know that I can cook my ass off when I feel like it.
Oh ho, so very infrequently.
Don't forget your CDs.
Those aren't mine.
Sure they are.
They're not really, though, are they? I know you bought them for me, and that was really sweet of you, but that was when you were trying to turn me into you. I can't take them, I know they'd just sit around staring at me, and I'd feel embarrassed by them and... they don't fit in with the rest of what's mine, do you understand? That Sting record you bought for me... that was a present for me. I like Sting and you hate him. But the rest of this stuff... Who the hell is Nick Lowe? Or Gram Parsons? Or the Boredoms? I don't know these people. I...
Okay, okay. I get the picture.
I'm sorry to go on about it. But, I don't know, there's a lesson here somewhere, and I want to make sure you get it.
I got it. You like Sting but you don't like Gram Parsons, because you've never heard of him.
You're being deliberately obtuse.
I guess I am.
Well, think about it.
Hello.
Hey, how ya doin'?
Guess who I just saw, right by my store? Ian. In Starbuck's. Neat, huh?
I can't talk right now.
God, that's a cold and a half. Maybe you should bet back in bed.
Are you alright?
Pigsty.
Don't worry about it. Just get into bed. Worry about that when you're better.
Pig died.
Who the fuck's Pig?
My dad died. My dad, my dad.
I'm sorry.
No, no. When are you going home?
In a minute. When I get it together.
Me?
My dad liked you. And Mom never told him we'd split, because he wasn't up to it and... oh, I don't know. I don't really understand it. I think she thinks he'll be able to see what's going on. It's like... He's been through so much, what with dying and everything, that she doesn't want to upset him any more than she has to.
Do you want me to be there?
I don't care. As long as you don't expect me to hold your hand.
Look, are you coming or not?
Yes, of course.
Liz'll give you a lift. She knows where to go and everything... I don't have time to talk, Rob. I've got too much to do.
Sure. I'll see you on Friday.
Are you going to lie in that flower bed all night?
Uh... No.
You're soaking.
Mmnn.
You're also an idiot.
I can see why you say that. Look, I'm sorry. I really am. The last thing I wanted was... that's why I left, because... I lost it, and I didn't want to blow my top in there, and... look, the reason I fucked everything up was because I was scared. I just wanted you to know, that's all.
Thank you. I appreciate it. I can't reciprocate.
What do you mean?
I didn't mess things up because I was scared. I slept with Ray because I was sick of you. And I needed something to snap me out of it.
Sure, I understand. Look, I don't want to take up any more of your time. You get back, and I'll wait here for a bus.
I don't want to go back.
What do you want to do?
C'mon.
When are you going back?
I don't know. Sometime. Later. Listen, Rob, would you have sex with me?
What?
I want to feel something else than this. It's either that or I go home and put my hand in the fire. Unless you want to stub cigarettes out on my arm.
I've only got a couple left. I'm saving them for later.
It'll have to be sex, then.
Hello. It doesn't seem so long ago that I looked at you from here.
Hi.
I knew there was a reason I wore a skirt today.
You know, with Ray...
Oh, Rob, we're not going to go through that again.
No, no. It's not... are you still on the pill?
Yes, of course. There's nothing to worry about.
I didn't mean that. I mean... was that all you used?
Look, we can do other things.
I lived with you. You were my partner just a few weeks ago and now you're worried I might kill you, and you're entitled to worry. Isn't that a terrible thing? Isn't that sad?
Laura...
I'm too tired not to go out with you.
So if you had a bit more energy we'd stay split. But things being how they are, what with you wiped out, you'd like us to get back together.
Everything's too hard. Maybe another time I would have the guts to be on my own, but not now I don't.
What about Ian?
Ray's a disaster. I don't know what that was all about, except that sometimes you need someone to lob into the middle of a bad relationship like a hand grenade, I guess, and blow it all apart.
Mission accomplished.
I know it's not very romantic, but there will be romance again at some stage, I'm sure. I just... I need you, Rob. That's it. And we know each other and we care for each other, and you've made it clear that you want me back, so...
Let's go home. Okay?
Okay.
C'mon. I want to know.
Want to know what, exactly?
What it was like.
It was like sex. What else could it be like?
Was it like good sex or was it like bad sex?
What's the difference?
You know the difference.
Look, we're okay now. We just had a nice time. Let's leave it at that.
Okay, that's cool, okay. But the nice time we just had... was it nicer, as nice, or less nice than the nice times you were having a couple of weeks ago?
Oh, c'mon, Laura. Just say something. Lie, if you want. It'd stop me asking you questions and it'd make me feel better.
Well I was gonna lie and now I can't, because you'd know I was lying.
Well why the fuck would you want to lie, anyway?
To make you feel better.
Oh, great...
Look, Rob. If great sex was as important as you think it is, and if I was having great sex with him, then we wouldn't be lying here now. And that is my last word on the subject, okay?
Okay.
... Like Mexico. Or Jamaica. Or New York, even.
Hey, great idea. What I'll do is, tomorrow I'll get a hold of a box full of mint Elvis Presley 78s on the Sub label, and I'll pay for it that way.
I'll pay for you. Even though you owe me money. We have to do something with the money I earn. I need to. I deserve it. You can just think of it as winning the lottery.
Fantastic. The Girlfriend Lottery.
Money does not matter. I do not care how much you earn. I'd just like you to be a little happier in your work, but beyond that you can do what you like.
But it wasn't supposed to be like this. When I met you we were the same people and now we're not, and...
How? How were we the same people?
Well, you were the kind of person who came to the Artful Dodger and I was the kind of person who deejayed at the Artful Dodger. You wore jeans and Tshirts, and so did I. And I still do, and you don't.
Because I'm not allowed to. I still do, after work. So, what? Should we just break up? Is that what you're saying? Because if you are, I'm going to run out of patience.
No, but...
But what?
But why doesn't it matter that we're not the same people we used to be?
You haven't changed so much as a pair of socks in the years I've known you. If we've grown apart, then I'm the one who's done the growing, and all I've done is change jobs.
And hairstyles and clothes and attitude and friends and...
I can't go to work with my hair dyed pink. And I can afford to go shopping more now, and I've met a couple people I like over the last year or so.
You're tougher.
More confident, maybe.
Harder.
Less neurotic. Are you intending to stay the same for the rest of your life?
I'm alright.
Yeah, you're alright. But you're certainly not happy. So what happens if you get happy? And yes I know that's the title of an Elvis Costello album, I use the reference deliberately to catch your attention. Should we split up because I'm used to you being miserable? What happens if you, I don't know, start you're own record label, and it's a success? Time for a new girlfriend?
You're being stupid.
How? What would be the difference between you having a record label and me going from legal aid to private practice?
All I'm saying is, you have to allow for things to happen to people, most of all to yourself. Otherwise, what's the use?
No use.
Hi.
Hi. What are you doing?
Nothing.
Wanna go to dinner?
Where?
At Paul and Miranda's. Paul from work.
Oh. Well. We don't really get along. Paul and I.
I know. But you've never met. It just seems like a stone unturned in your relationship with him.
Ha.
You did that deliberately. You knew all along I'd like them. It was a trick.
I tricked you into meeting some people you'd think were great. I thought it would be fun to introduce you to someone with a Tina Turner album and then see whether you still felt the same way.
I called Dan Koretzky because he 
Has Drag City Records, I know, I know. You told Dan Koretzky about this?
Yeah, and he said it's a good way to break out a record. Especially for what he said, and I quote, "would be a highly anticipated event, locally." He helped me put out a press release.
WHAT?
Just local, of course.
And the "triumphant return of DJ Rob Gordon?" "Triumphant?" "Return?"
I had that idea when I was living with Ian and it was such a good idea that I was annoyed we weren't together anymore. It might even be why I came back.
You had no right. Supposing I was doing something that couldn't be cancelled?
What do you ever do that can't be cancelled?
That's not the point. I mean, what if the single isn't done in time?
Barry said its done.
Barry? Barry knows about this?
Yeah. His band is playing a set.
They'll go on early. Nobody will even be there yet and I told them they can't play for more than a half hour.
It's no joke. I'm responsible for what happens, you know. Embarrassment aside, there's a lot of money and effort in this, at least by my standards. I have to put down a deposit for the room. I have to pay the pressing plant for the records, sleeve them, sticker them 
We took care of that.
I'm sorry I've been acting like a jerk. I do appreciate what you've done for me, and I know you've done it for the best possible reasons, and I do love you, even though I act like I don't.
That's okay. You seem pissed off all the time, though.
I know. I don't get it.
Are you worried about tomorrow night?
Not really.
Are you going to talk to me, or shall I get my paper out?
I'm going to talk to you.
Right.
What are you going to talk to me about?
I'm going to talk to you about whether you want to get married or not. To me.
Ha ha ha. Hoo hoo hoo.
I mean it.
I know.
Oh, well thanks a fucking bunch.
I'm sorry. But two days ago you were in love with that girl who interviewed you for The Reader, weren't you?
Not in love, exactly, but...
Well forgive me if I don't think of you as the world's safest bet.
Would you marry me if I was?
No. Probably not.
Right. Okay, then. Shall we go?
Don't sulk. What brought all this on?
I don't know.
Very persuasive.
Are you persuadable?
No. I don't think so. I'm just curious about how one goes from making tapes for one person to marriage proposals to another in two days. Fair enough?
Fair enough.
So?
I'm just sick of thinking about it all the time.
About what?
This stuff. Love and marriage. I want to think about something else.
I've changed my mind. That's the most romantic thing I've ever heard. I do. I will.
Shut up. I'm only trying to explain.
I mean, maybe you're right. But were you really expecting me to say yes?
I dunno. Didn't think about it, really. It was the asking that was the important thing.
Well, you've asked.
I'm an idiot. I should have played the record first. This place is about to get burned down.
It's gonna be fine. These people are ready for anything.
Can I help you?
Hello, Rob. Remember me? I'm Ray. Ian.
What needs sorting out?
Come on, Rob. My relationship with Laura has obviously disturbed you a great deal.
Funnily enough I haven't been too thrilled about it.
We are not talking jokey understatement here, Rob. We're talking actionable harassment. Ten phone calls a night, hanging around outside my house...
Yeah, well, I've stopped all that now.
We've noticed and we're glad. But, you know... how are we going to make peace here? We want to make things easier for you. What can we do? Obviously I know how special Laura is, and I know things can't be good for you at the moment. I'd hate it if I lost her. But I'd like to think that if she decided she didn't want to see me anymore, I'd respect that decision. Do you see what I'm saying?
Yeah.
Good. So shall we leave it at that then?
I dunno.
Think about it, Rob.
Good. So shall we leave it at that then?
I've already left it, you pathetic rebound fuck! Now get your patchouli stink out of my store.
Good. So shall we leave it at that then?
We won't leave it, Ian. Not ever.
So shall we leave it at that then?
I dunno.
Think about it, Rob.
Laura? Are you okay?
I am fine... I gotta go. Goodbye.
Yeah, I'm fine. I'm off the phone.
You look upset.
I'm upset, but I'm fine.
Maybe I should talk to him.
Mmmm, no. Not a good idea.
Conflict resolution is my job, Laura.
Nothing to resolve, Ian. Let's get a drink.
'Morning, Dick.
Oh, hi. Hi, Rob.
Good weekend?
Yeah, OK. I found the first Licorice Comfits album at Vintage Vinyl. The one on Testament of Youth. Never released here. Japanese import only.
Great.
I'll tape it for you.
No, that's okay. Really.
'Cause you like their second one, you said, Pop, Girls. etc. The one with Cheryl Ladd on the cover. You didn't see the cover though.
Yeah, I haven't really absorbed that one.
Well, I'll just make it for you.
Okay.
What's this?
The new Belle and Sebastian. Like it?
Hey. Didn't you steal that one already?
Can I help you?
Are you all right?
Yeah. I'm sorry... Look Dick, Laura and I broke up. She's gone. And if we ever see Barry again maybe you can tell him that.
'Course I will, Rob. No problem. No problem at all. I'll tell him next time I see him.
I've ah... got some other stuff to tell him anyway, so it's no problem. I'll just tell him about, you know, Laura, when I tell him the other stuff.
Fine.
I'll start with your news before I tell him mine, obviously. Mine isn't much, really, just about Marie LaSalle playing at Lounge Ax tonight. I like her, you know, she's kind of Sheryl Crowish... but, you know, good. So I'll tell him before that. Good news and bad news kind of thing.
Or rather, bad news and good news, because he likes this person playing tonight. I mean, he liked Laura too, I didn't mean that. And he likes you. It's just that 
I understand, Dick.
Sure. 'Course. Rob, look. Do you want to... talk about it, that kind of thing?
I always hated this song.
Yeah.
Let's not.
I want a tape.
Rob.
Liz, hold on a second  What?
Marie LaSalle is in the store! Here, she's here, and now!
Rob !
 FUCK OFF!
I will now sell four copies of Cats and Dogs by the Royal Trux.
Do it. Do it.
Well we rang $900 today.
Yeah but more than that. I'm happy because I'm proud of us. Because although our talents are small and peculiar, we use them to their best advantage.
Don't worry about it, Dick. Barry's an asshole.
Yeah... Well... I'll see you tomorrow, Rob.
I'm sorry, Rob, that's, it's 
You're a horrible person, Barry. I mean it.
Can I do anything?
"Abraham, Martin, and John." That's a nice one.
What is this.
It's Vince and Justin.
Who's that?
Rob, hi, so sorry I missed your call. In LA on business. You know how it gets.
Yeah, sure...
Good. Great. Yeah... Wow. Rob Gordon. Seems like a 100 million years ago now.
Yeah. A billion. Right... How are you?
Fantastic but I'm a little busy right now. Listen. Do you want to come to dinner Saturday? I'm having some friends over and I need a spare man. Are you a spare man?
Uh...yes, at the moment.
Great. Gotta go. See you then.
Hey Charlie.
Hey Rob.
Why did you break up with me for Marco?
Fuck! I knew it! You're going through one of those whatdoesit allmean things.
Huh?
There's been a rash of them, recently. I find it a little unnerving. In fact Marco called a few months back, and he wanted to see me, and rehash the past as they say, and I wasn't really up for it. Do all men go through this?
C'mon, just answer the question. You can say what you like. What the hell?
It's all kind of lost in the... in the dense mists of time now... It wasn't that I really liked Marco more. In fact I thought you were more, shall we say, attractive than him. It was just that he knew he was goodlooking and you didn't, and that made a difference somehow. You used to act as if I was weird for wanting to spend time with you, and that got kind of beat, if you know what I mean. Your selfimage started to rub off on me and I ended up thinking that I was strange. And I knew that you were kind and thoughtful... you made me laugh, and I dug the way you got consumed by things you loved... and Marco seemed a bit more, I don't know, glamorous? More sure of himself? Less hard work, because I felt like I was dragging you around, sort of. A little sunnier. Sparkier. I don't know. You know what people are like at that age. They make very superficial judgements. Do you think that's superficial? He was a clown, if it's any consolation.
Did you tell that to Marco when he did his whatdoesitallmean thing with you?
Oh God, no. I didn't want to hurt his feelings.
May I help you?
I'm looking for Deejay Rob Gordon.
Uh. That's me.
I'm Caroline Fortis from The Reader. I want to do a story on you.
Right. Why?
Well, I used to go to the Dodger on your nights, and I saw you're doing it again and that your putting out a record, and it's sort of a thenand now story against the backdrop of the Chicago music scene with the emphasis on now.
Oh. Okay.
I thought I would ask you a few questions if that's okay.
Huh. You used to come to the club? I shouldn't have let you in. You must have only been about sixteen.
What I mean is, I didn't mean you look young. You don't. You don't look old either. You look just as old as you are. A bit younger maybe, but not a lot. Not much. Just right.
So. Is now a good time?
Right. So. You must have an enormous record collection.
Yeah. I could show it to you if you want to come over and see it.
Yeah, well... Let's see... What are you're alltime top five records?
Pardon me?
Your desert island topfive.
Oh boy... In the club, or at home?
Is there a difference?
OF COURSE... Well yeah, a bit. "Sin City" by the Flying Burrito Brothers is an alltime top five, but I wouldn't play it at the club. It's a countryrock ballad. Everybody'd go home.
Nevermind. Any five. So four more.
What do you mean, four more?
Well if one of them is this "Sin City" thing 
Can I go home and work this out and let you know? In a week or so?
Look if you can't think of anything, it doesn't matter. I'll do one. My five favorite from the old days at the Dodger.
Oh, I'm sure I can manage something... "Sin City." "New Rose," by The Damned. "Hit It and Quit It" by Funkadelic. "Shipbuilding," Elvis Costello, Japanese import, no horns, or different horns, anyway... um... "Mystery Train" by Elvis Presley... And... "Spaced Cowboy" by Sly and the Family Stone. A bit controversial, I know, but...
Fine. That's great.
Is that it?
Well, I wouldn't mind a quick chat, if you got the time.
Sure, but is that it for the list?
That's five. So. Why did you decide to deejay again?
Well it was a friend's idea, really, and the record release party seemed like a good place to do it. So... I should really put a James Brown in there 
Nice friend.
Yeah.
What's his name?
Who? Oh. My friend. My friend is Laura. A girl. A friend who's a girl.
"Music for Old People." What does that mean?
Look, I'm sorry about this, but I'd like "the Upsetter" by Lee "Scratch" Perry, in there. Instead of "Sin City."
Okay. "Dance Music For Old People?"
Oh, you know... a lot of people aren't too old for clubs but they're too old for acid jazz and garage and ambient and all that. They want to hear old funk and Stax and New Wave and Old School Hip Hop and some new stuff all together and there's nowhere for them.
And the new label? And the Kinky Wizards?
Oh, well, the Kinky Wizards are  you know what? Why don't I just make you a tape?
Would you? Really? Wow. I could have deejay Rob Gordon play in my own home.
Haha. Right. It's no problem. I love making tapes.
"Somebody's Gonna Die" by Blitz. "Bella Lugosi's Dead," Bauhaus. It's got that creepy Halloween feeling.
No. No. Mom wants you to come to the funeral. It's on Friday.
Hey, Barry.
Oh, hi.
Where's Rob?
The Malcolm McClaren of Clark Street is in his executive suite. Do you have an appointment?
What are you talking about?
Just that Rob seems to think it would be wiser to start a record label by putting out a record with business crippling Nazi Youth shoplifters than with someone he knows in his bitter jealous heart is a musical visionary. That's all.
Holy Shiite! What the fuck's this?
It's the new 
Mitch Ryder and the Detroit Wheels?
No. The Righteous Brothers.
Oh well. Nevermind.
What?
Nothing.
No, not nothing. What's wrong with the Righteous Brothers?
Nothing. I just prefer the other one.
Bullshit.
She shouldn't done it on "The Number Four With a Smile."
Isn't her album called "Number Four With A Smile?"
That's what I said.
No, no, no, you said "The Number Four With a Smile," and there's no "The" at the front of the title of the album.
It's a reference to a Chinese meal in Toronto and I think that there is a "The." But I could be wrong.
You can be and are wrong.
He's got one!
On Clark Street!
A couple blocks! About six!
We work there!
You'd love it!
I can't go to the club tonight, guys.
Why?
Who are you going to see?
Nobody.
Anna.
Anna who? Anna Green Gables? Anna Conda?
Anna Moss.
Anna Moss. Mossy. The Mossy Thing. The Swamp Thing. Is she all green and furry?
Don't do it, Rob!
He's not worth it!
Okay, okay  "Leader of the Pack." The guy fucking cracks up on a cycle and dies right? "Dead Man's Curve," Jan and Dean...
Did you know that after that song was recorded, Jan himself crashed his 
 It was Dean, you fucking idiot.
I'm looking for a record for my daughter. For her birthday. "I Just Called To Say I Love You." Do you have it?
Oh yeah. We got it.
Great. Can I have it then?
No, you can't.
Why not?
Because it's sentimental tacky crap, that's why not. Do we look like the kind of store that sells "I Just Called To Say I Loved You?" Go to the mall and stop wasting our time.
What's your problem? What did I... Why are you 
Do you even know your daughter? There is no way she likes that song. Or is she in a coma?
It's almost impossible to find, especially on CD. Yet another cruel trick on all of the dumbasses who got rid of their turntables. But every other Echo and the Bunnymen album 
I have all of the others.
Oh really. Well what about the first Jesus and Mary Chain?
They always seemed...
They always seemed what? They always seemed really great, is what they always seemed. They picked up where your precious Echo left off, and you're sitting here complaining about no more Echo albums. I can't believe that you don't own that record. That's insane.
Well what about the new Echo 
Do not get ahead of yourself.
That is perverse. Do not tell anyone you don't own fucking Blonde on Blonde. What about Television?
I have a television.
NO!
TURN IT OFF, BARRY.
IT WON'T GO ANY LOUDER.
What are you doing?
I don't want to hear Public Enemy right now.
Public Enemy! All I'm trying to do is cheer us up. Go ahead and put on some old sad bastard music see if I care.
I don't want old sad bastard music either. I just want something I can ignore.
But it's my new tape. My Monday morning tape. I made it last night just for today.
Yeah, well it's fucking Monday afternoon. You should get out of bed earlier.
Don't you want to hear what's next?
What's next?
Play it.
Say it.
"Little Latin Lupe Lu."
How can it be bullshit to state a preference?
Since when did this shop become a fascist regime?
Since you brought that bullshit tape in.
Great. That's the fun of working in a record store. Playing crappy pap you don't want to listen to. I thought this tape was going to be, you know, a conversation stimulator. I was going to ask you for your top five records to play on a Monday morning and all that, and you just had to ruin it.
We'll do it next Monday.
Well what's the point in that?
Nice, Barry.
Rob. Top five musical crimes perpetrated by Stevie Wonder in the '80's and '90's. Subquestion  is it in fact unfair to criticize a formerly great artist for his latter day sins? "Is it better to burn out than to fade away?"
You just drove a fucking customer away, Barry.
We didn't even really have it. I happen to know for a fact that the only Stevie Wonder single we have is "Don't Drive Drunk." I was just goofing on the straight, and it never cost you a penny.
Not the point.
Oh, so what's the point then?
I don't want you talking to our customers like that again.
"Our customers?" You think that Mr. L.L. Bean out there is going to be a regular?
Barry, I'm fucking broke! I know we used to fuck with anyone who asked for anything we didn't like, but it's gotta stop.
Bullshit. The guy was going to buy one record  which we didn't even have  and leave and never come back again anyway. Why not have a little fun? Big fucking deal.
What did he ever do to you?
He offended me with his terrible taste.
It wasn't even his terrible taste. It was his daughter's.
Oh, now you're defending that motherfucker? You're going soft in your old age, Rob. There was a time when you would have chased him out of the store and up the street. Now all of a sudden I'm offending your golf buddy. You're right, Rob. I am so sorry. How are we ever going to make enough money to get you and Laura into the country club?
Yeah.
But now I kind of like it.
I wanna date a musician...
I wanna live with a musician. She'd write songs at home, ask me what she thought of them, maybe even include one of our private jokes in the liner notes.
...Maybe a picture of me in the liner notes...
What did you tell her about the shop for?
I didn't know it was classified information. I mean, I know we don't have any customers, but I thought that was a bad thing, not, like, a business strategy.
We're only on the fucking list for Marie's gig at the Pulaski Pub, that's all! All three of us.
That's fucking great, Barry. We can spend fifteen bucks on a cab to save five each. Fantastic, Barry!
We can take your car.
It's not my car, now is it? It's Laura's car, and thus Laura has it. So it's an assbumping double transferring bus ride through bumblefuck or a fat wad on a cab. Wow. Fucking great.
What?
What do you mean, "what?"
What are you snickering about?
I'm not snickering. I'm smiling. Because I'm happy.
What am I missing? What do you have to be happy about?
Okay. Top five side one track ones. Number one... "Janie Jones," the Clash, from The Clash.
Ehh.
"Thunder Road," Bruce Springsteen, from Born to Run. "Smells Like Teen Spirit," Nirvana, Nevermind.
Oh no, Rob, that's not obvious enough. Not at all. Dick, did you hear that?
Shut up. "Let's Get It On," Marvin Gaye, from Let's Get It On. "Airbag," Radiohead, from OK Computer.
Ooh! A kind of recent record! Rob's sly declaration of new classicstatus slipped into a list of old classics! Nice! "Let's Get It On?" Couldn't you make it more obvious than that?
There's something different about the sound of her voice... And what did she mean last night, she hasn't slept with him yet. Yet. What does "yet" mean, anyway? "I haven't seen... Evil Dead II yet." What does that mean? It means you're going to go, doesn't it?
 You're like a little squirrel of music, storing away dead little nuts of old garbage music, musical lint, old shit, shit, shit 
 Barry, if I were to say to you I haven't seen Evil Dead II yet, what would that mean?
Just... come on, what would it mean to you? That sentence? "I haven't seen Evil Dead II yet?"
To me, it would mean that you're a liar. You saw it twice. Once with Laura  oops  once with me and Dick. We had that conversation about the possibilities of the guy making ammo offscreen in the Fourteenth Century.
Yeah, yeah, I know. But say I hadn't seen it and I said to you, "I haven't seen Evil Dead II yet," what would you think?
I'd think you were a cinematic idiot. And I'd feel sorry for you.
No, but would you think, from that one sentence. That I was going to see it?
I'm sorry, Rob, but I'm struggling here. I don't understand any part of this conversation. You're asking me what I would think if you told me that you hadn't seen a film that you've seen. What am I supposed to say?
Just listen to me. If I said to you 
" I haven't seen Evil Dead II yet," yeah, yeah, I hear you 
Would you... would you get the impression that I wanted to see it?
Well... you couldn't have been desperate to see it, otherwise you'd have already gone...
...But the word "yet..." Yeah, you know what, I'd get the impression that you wanted to see it. Otherwise you'd say you didn't really want to.
But in your opinion, would I definitely go?
How the fuck am I supposed to know that? You might get sick of people telling you you've really gotta go see the movie.
Why would they care?
Because it's a brilliant film. It's funny, violent, and the soundtrack kicks fucking ass.
I never thought I would say this, but can I go work now?
Let's pack it up. We haven't had a customer in four hours.
Fine by me. I still want pay to 7 o'clock.
Ha.
Unfuckingbelievable. Dick's out on a hot date, Rob's boning Marie LaSalle, and the bestlooking and most intelligent of all of us isn't getting anything at all.
How do you know about that?
Oh come on, Rob. What am I, an idiot? I'm more bothered by Dick's thing. How did this happen, Dick? What rational explanation can there possibly be? What's her name?
Shut the fuck up, Barry.
Yeah, you would say that, wouldn't you? You two have to stick together now. Boners United. United in getting some.
Don't be sad, Barry. You'll find true love someday.
Suck my ass.
Terrific.
Hey.
What the fuck is that?
My band.
What band?
The band that found me and asked me to join.
You are not in a band, Barry. You are not a musician. And no posters.
Thanks for your support, Rob. Really appreciate it.
Barrytown. Barrytown? Is there no end to your arrogance?
I didn't make up the name. It's the Steely Dan song. And it was in The Commitments.
You can't be called Barry and sing in a group called Barrytown.
They were fucking called that before I was in it, okay? It wasn't my idea.
That's why you got the gig, isn't it?
Isn't it?
That was one of the reasons they asked me to join originally, yes. But 
Great! That's fucking great! They only asked you to sing because of your name! You can stick it above the browser racks over there.
How many tickets can I put you down for?
None. Christ!
You're not even coming?
Of course I'm not coming. Do I look like I'd want to listen to some terrible experimental racket played in some hideous cave? Where is it? The fucking Bucktown Pub? Ha!
So much for friends, then. You're a bitter bastard, Rob, you know that?
Bitter? Because I'm not in Barrytown? You should be shot like a lame horse, you jerk. Just keep that out of my window.
What's up?
Laura. Her dad died.
Ooh. Drag.
It was Jan, and it was a long time after
Whatever. Okay. "Tell Laura I Love Her." That'd bring the house down. Laura's mom could sing it.
Fuck off, Barry.
I'd want "One Step Beyond" by Madness. And "You Can't Always Get What You Want."
Because it's in The Big Chill.
Haven't seen it.
Liar. We saw it in the Lawrence Kasdan doublebill with Body Heat.
Oh. Right. But I'd forgotten about that. I wasn't biting the idea.
Not really.
The little skatefuckers.
No way.
Yes way. It's really...
What the fuck is that?
What?
I heard you, man. Don't give me that "what" shit. You just told them that you're gonna put out a record with them.
So? You even said they're good.
HELLO. DO YOU SEE ANYONE ELSE around here with a band, Mr. Branson? Mr. Phil Spector?
Like fuck you are.
Laura said we could. If we helped out with the posters and stuff. And we did. And we are.
I'll give you 10% of the door if you don't play.
We're getting that anyway.
What is she doing? Okay, 20%.
No. We need the gig.
110%. That's my final offer. I'm not kidding. That's how much it means to me not to hear you play.
We're not as bad as you think, Rob.
You couldn't be. Look, Barry. There's going to be people from Laura's work there, people who own dogs and babies and Tina Turner albums. How are you going to cope with them?
We're not called Barrytown anymore, by the by. They got sick of the Barry/Barrytown thing. We're called SDM. Sonic Death Monkey.
Sonic Death Monkey.
What do you think? Dick likes it.
Barry, you're over thirty years old. You owe it to yourself and your friends and to your parents not to sing in a group called Sonic Death Monkey.
I owe it to myself to go right to the edge, Rob, and this group does exactly that. Over the edge, in fact.
You'll be going over the fucking edge if you come anywhere near me next Friday night.
That's what we want. Reaction. And if Laura's bourgeois lawyer friends can't take it, then fuck 'em. Let 'em riot, we can handle it. We'll be ready.
Do I know you?
I don't know.
Alison's.
Really.
Long time ago. I was just thinking about her. I was her first boyfriend.
Rob. Rob Gordon. Circa junior high...
I hate to quibble with you Rob, but she married her first boyfriend. Kevin Bannister.
You gotta be kidding me.
That's right. Kevin. She's Mrs. Kevin Bannister. She lives in Australia.
Really? Married Kevin? Her junior high sweetheart... What chance would I have had against that? None, no chance. That's just fate.
I beg your pardon?
Technically, I'm number one. I went out with her a week before Kevin did. Her first boyfriend. Me.
We're on the Cointreau.
That's right. Cointreau.
I won't be able to stand.
So lie down.
You're not going?
Just upstairs.
Need any help?
I AM housetrained.
I'm here.
I thought we'd lost you.
I'm coming! Sleep well.
You know I do know the way home.
It's late.
Not that late.
Please. I want to see you home. All right?
All right. No. That's nice.
If there's a train.
What do we do if there isn't?
We walk.
Why don't you stay at Larry's house? There's plenty of room.
Yeah, there's room. And there's Julia.
I see.
She's so damn... English.
Meaning what?
Oh, I don't know. Uptight. Frigid.
I beg your pardon?
There ya go. I beg your pardon?
We're not all frigid.
Oh no?
Oh no.
It's not what I heard.
Well you've just been talking to the wrong people.
Oh!
Are you alright ?
I've been better.
Your father told me you were working here.
If I make it through the day.
I'm sorry, I shouldn't have surprised you.
No, it's good to see you.
Are you busy after work ?
Just trying to get my apartment in order.
Can I lend you a hand?
As long as you don't mind the smell of fur 
It's a fetish of mine.
Steve. Thank God you came.
What happened to you?
These THINGS... they want to take me 
What things?
What's wrong?
Don't let them take me, Steve 
I won't let anybody take you.
What?
Just go. PLEASE. I'll be O.K. I'm going to go see Dad. He'll look after me 
What did I say?
Will you GO, damn you?
I'll come back later, huh?
Sure. Why not?
'Bye.
'Bye.
Who's there?
Daddy?
Kirsty?
I got through.
Where are you?
I found a room.
What did you say?
I said: I found a room.
I thought you were going to stay with us for awhile?
No Dad.
You'd like the house.
YOU'D like my room.
Do you want me to come over?
Well I want you to see the house.
I'm not going to change my mind, Dad.
Great.
Well come over, will you? See the place?
Maybe later in the week. First I've got to find myself a job.
What for, honey? You know we can look after you. You've made the gesture 
It's not a gesture. I want to do this on my own. Come on, trust me a little will you?
I do. I'd just feel happier if you were with us.
I'll come over and see you in the next few days. You can show me the mansion. O.K.?
You will keep in touch.
Of course. Every day.
O.K.
Take care, Dad.
Call me tomorrow.
I will. See you.
Big house.
You like?
Me like.
I'll show you around when we've got this damn bed moved.
Is Julia here?
Upstairs. Treat her gently, huh? She hates moving.
Surprise.
Kirsty.
O.K. I'll be nice. You get on with the muscle work. I'll make myself some coffee.
Kitchen's through on your left.
Are you O.K.?
Sure.
What are you drinking, love?
I've forgotten.
Steve?
I just wanted to be sure you were O.K.
Never better. You sleep well.
Yeah.
I love you, honey.
I love you too.
...maybe we should never have come back.
Maybe you should give it some time.
I guess.
She's not like Mom. She's... I don't know... moody. I thought that was what you liked about her.
You don't like her at all do you?
She doesn't even want to leave the house.
Really?
It's like she's waiting for something.
What?
I don't know. I don't know. It's beyond me.
Would you... maybe call round sometime? Try to make friends.
Sure.
Maybe all she needs is some company.
I have to talk to you.
Of course.
It's all right, sweetheart. Julia's told me everything; and it's all right...
No. You don't understand. Your brother  Frank  he's here in the house. And he's 
Whatever Frank did was his error. And it's finished with now.
Finished?
He's gone.
Gone?
Poor Frank. He's better off dead.
I don't believe it.
I'm afraid it's true.
I want to see.
No you don't.
Yes!
Show her.
Get the fuck out of here.
What's the problem?
PLEASE. You're in danger.
No. It's all over.
It isn't. I know what's going on here, and it isn't over 
Where are you going?
I have to get out.
You're awake. Good girl.
What happened to me?
I'll get the doctor.
Wait a moment 
Who brought me in here?
I won't be a moment.
What a pretty tune.
My father doesn't answer. I have to go find him.
I'm afraid you'll have to wait until the police have spoken to you. Keep trying your father; he'll answer eventually.
I called another friend of mine and he's coming over. Will you let him in?
Of course. This isn't a prison you know. Look if you'd prefer to tell ME what happened, instead of a policeman 
You wouldn't believe me.
Try me.
Well, if you change your mind. What's this friend's name?
Steve.
Not much fun, is it?
What?
Drinking alone.
Not much.
I wonder, maybe...
What are you drinking?
Just soda.
Plain soda?
Please.
I try not to drink at lunchtime. Makes me sleepy in the afternoon. You like to keep a clear head, eh? One soda, one whisky. I do it anyway. No willpower. Got a busy afternoon?
That depends.
Oh?
You know it's not often I... you know...
There's a first time for everything.
I suppose that's right.
You want something to drink?
I'm already way over my usual limit. You know, it's funny. I feel like I've known you for years.
Well, isn't it?
I... suppose so, yes.
So, what's your problem? Let's get to it. You're not going to change your fucking mind ?
No. No. Let's go upstairs.
That's more like it.
Is this your place ?
Do you care ?
No, not much.
Let's keep it that way, shall we?
No personal details?
That's right.
This isn't the bedroom.
No.
What's going on?
We don't need a bed, do we?
I suppose not.
I prefer the floor.
First time for everything.
That's right.
Why don't you take off your jacket? You're warm.
Yeah, why don't I?
Why don't you do the same?
Maybe I will.
You know, you're very beautiful.
Am I?
You know you are. Loveliest woman I ever set eyes on.
Oh Christ.
What's wrong?
Too much drink. Better empty my bladder.
It's ONE of these.
We're going to freeze to death.
O.K. O.K.
Maybe somebody changed the lock.
Like who?
Just a thought 
Ah!
It smells damp.
It's just been empty a while.
How long since you were here?
The best part of ten years.
Why didn't he want to sell it?
I don't know. Probably wanted a hideaway.
Not exactly modern.
We'll sell it. Sell everything.
I thought half of it was your brother's?
He won't complain. He can pay off some of his creditors.
You know we have to let Kirsty see this place, before we do anything to it. She'll love it.
You mean we're moving in?
You're still blaming me.
No. I'm not.
You wanted to come back to London. We came back.
All right.
So what's the argument?
No argument.
Oh Christ. Julia...
Larry!
I hear you.
Where are you?
In here.
He's here?
He's BEEN here. There's stuff in the kitchen. He must have made a hasty exit.
Well?
Why not?
We'll move in Sunday.
How are you doing through there?
It looks like a bomb's dropped.
What have you done?
I cut myself.
Is it deep?
I don't know, I haven't looked. You know me and blood.
You're NOT going to faint.
Shit.
Let me see.
It's probably going to need stitches.
I'm going to throw up.
No, you're not.
Take it slowly.
So damn stupid.
You're done worse.
I'll be scarred for life.
No you won't.
Look, I'm going to have to leave you guys to keep each other company.
Larry....
Anyway, it's bad luck to see too much of the bride before the wedding.
Would you excuse me? I think I'm going to go to bed.
Are you O.K.?
Julia?
I'm here.
Sweetheart... I've been calling you.
Are you all right?
Just feeling a bit sick.
Oh, babe...
I'll be O.K. Just leave me be a while.
Can I get you anything?
Maybe a brandy.
Sure.
I'll be down in a minute
O.K.
Just a moment. Put on some music will you babe?
O.K.
Who was it?
Kirsty.
Is this upsetting you?
I've seen worse.
Are you all right?
Fine.
Only I'll turn it off 
 I'll go see.
No. I'll do it.
Larry...
What's wrong with you?
Oh baby.
Don't go upstairs.
Come with me then.
Huh?
Please...
What's wrong with you?
Please. I can't bear it...
What's wrong?
I don't know where to begin...
What are you talking about?
It's better you see for yourself 
Dead.
He was insane, baby: a mad dog. I put him out of his misery 
Kirsty.
Hi. I got soaked.
There's a towel in the bathroom.
Which is where?
Just to your left.
What happened?
Just an accident. He's all right. Will you drive? He needs stitches.
Sure.
The keys are in the kitchen.
Kirsty? It's very late.
Where's Daddy?
What's the problem?
I have to see my father.
Of course. There's no need to shout.
You look terrible. Have you had an accident?
I was here this afternoon.
This afternoon.
I saw everything.
I'm sorry, I don't follow. What was there to see?
No, damn you 
Oh my God.
You're Julia, right?
That's right. Who are you?
I'm brother Frank.
Oh.
I came for the wedding.
There is going to BE a wedding?
Oh. Oh yes.
Well can I come in or not?
I'm sorry. Of course. You're very welcome.
Well?
I don't want to see the dress.
But you said 
I don't want to see the dress.
What about Larry 
Forget him.
Wedded bliss?
I'm very happy.
Sure you are.
Julia.
Oh my God.
Don't look at me.
Who are you?
I said: don't look.
Help me.
Tell me who you are.
Frank.
No. God no.
Believe me. It's me. It's really me.
What happened to you?
His blood... on the floor... It brought me back.
Back from where?
Just help, will you? Please God, help me 
...somebody...
Ssh!
You can't let me stay like this. Please. You can't.
What do you want me to do.
The blood brought me this far. I need more of the same. Or I'll slip back...
I'm hurting
Hurting.
My nerves... are beginning to work again.
Good.
One more. Maybe two 
 to heal me completely. Then we can be away from here, before they come looking.
Who?
The Cenobites. It's only a matter of time before they find I've slipped them. I have to get away from here.
Poor Larry. Obedient as ever.
Keep your voice down.
Ssh. Don't want babe to hear.
You're hurting.
You won't cheat me will you? You'll stay with me. Help me. Then we can be together, the way we were before. We belong to each other now, for better or worse...
Well?
Better. Very much better. I'd like something to wear. And some cigarettes. Will you bring me some?
Later.
What?
I want an explanation first. I want to know what happened to you.
Not know.
Tell me, damn you.
A long time.
You promised me an explanation.
This is what began it.
A box?
It's not any box. It's called the Lament Configuration. It's a puzzle.
Let me see.
Don't touch it. It's dangerous. It opens doors.
What kind of doors?
To experience beyond anything ever known. At least that's what I was promised when I bought it. Pleasure from Heaven or Hell. I didn't much care which.
Hell...
I was bored. I'd done everything. I'd gone to the limits. There was nothing left to experience. At least nothing I could buy on earth.
And you came back here to solve the puzzle 
Sure. Somewhere safe. Safe. Christ! They tortured me here. In this room.
Who did?
The Cenobites. The creatures the box set free. Sometimes I think they're still here. Just behind the walls. Them and their hooks and their beasts. Just waiting to break out again. Except that I've got the box.
You're still afraid.
You would be. They tore me apart.
So you were cheated.
No. They gave me experiences beyond the limits. Pain and pleasure, indivisible.
They took my body, but my spirit... they left that here. In the boards, in the walls. Watching the world, but not able to TOUCH it.
And the blood let you out?
It gave me a little chance, and I took it. They won't get me back. I'm going to live, and you're going to help me. Yes?
Yes. They'll never find us.
You can't love him.
I don't.
So where's the harm?
I said no.
Then find me somebody else, before they come looking.
She'll tell them everything...
I don't think so. She'll want Larry first.
That's probably her now. Or the police.
Maybe.
Don't you care?
There's very little I can do about it.
Maybe we should just leave 
Like this? Look at me! LIKE THIS?
Well we can't just stay here 
I need a skin. Then we leave 
Julia!
Kirsty?
Kirsty. It's Frank. It's Uncle Frank.
No.
You remember.
No.
Come to Daddy.
Don't touch me. Or so help me 
What? What will you do? What CAN you do? There's nothing to be frightened of.
I bet you make your Daddy proud, don't you? Beautiful.
This isn't happening.
I used to tell myself that. Used to try and pretend I was dreaming all the pain. But why kid yourself? Some things have to be endured. Take it from me. And that makes the pleasures so much sweeter...
No.
One last time. Give me the box.
You want it?
Come to Daddy.
This isn't happening.
Some things have to be endured...
Oh my God.
Don't mourn him. He was dead long before we laid a finger on him.
You bastard 
Poor baby.
Bastard.
Hush now. It's all right Frank's here.
Frank 
That's right. This is Frank you're talking to, remember? FRANK.
Please. Get back into bed.
I have to speak to my father.
That's easily arranged. But first, back into bed.
It's important.
You took quite a beating. You must lie down.
Please listen to me 
First things first. You can have a telephone when we've talked. Do you know who did this to you?
You were holding onto it like grim death.
I don't remember.
Well the police are going to want to speak to you. You know that.
Oh Christ.
We'll get you a phone as long as you promise to stay put.
The box... you opened it. We came.
It's just a puzzle box.
It's a means to summon us  it's called the Lament Configuration.
Who are you?
Cenobites. Explorers in the further regions of experience. Demons to some. Angels to others.
Well, I didn't mean to open that thing. You can go back wherever you came from.
This isn't for real.
You solved the box. We came. Now you must come with us. Taste our pleasures.
He doesn't see us, or hear us. We belong to you, Kirsty. And you to us.
No!
Let me alone, will you?
No tears please. It's a waste of good suffering.
No time for argument.
You did this before, right?
Many times.
To a man called Frank Cotton?
Nobody escapes us.
HE did. I've seen him.
Suppose he HAD slipped us. What significance has that?
I could lead you right to him. You could take him back to Hell instead of me.
We want the man who did this 
No. That wasn't the deal.
Just in time.
Stay the fuck away from me.
We've got such sights to show you 
You can keep them.
Eh, Chas, slow it down like the man says.
It'll go in.
Alright, let's give it another try.
Do you really need this bed, lady?
That your daughter?
Uhhuh.
Got her mother's looks.
Her mother's dead.
Oh.
Julia's my second wife.
Lucky man.
Damn right. Now are we going to move the bed or not?
It's my lucky day.
Hi.
Want to buy a bed?
Not much.
What's happening?
We're leaving.
Where's my father?
Will you sign for the bed?
Sure.
Wait! Wait! Watch the fucking paint work.
Look, do you want the bed in or not?
Just take it slowly.
Oh, sod you.
Christ!
What's the problem?
My fucking hand!
You fucking assholes.
Who are you calling a fucking ass hole? It's this bastard bed that's your fucking problem!
Hello, I'm 
 Late. Five minutes late.
Yes, I 
 Section fiftyone. Step back.
Pardon?
Two steps back, please.
Liz  can I call you Liz? It's a beautiful name 
60% OF THE WOMEN IN THIS WORLD ARE NAMED "LIZ".
It's still impressive by my standards: My name's John.
Dr. Broom asked me to invite you back to the Bureau. No special precautions, no security escorts. You and me in a taxi. Like regular folks.
Doesn't sounds like him.
Miss Sherman, he's asking you back, but it's entirely your choice.
I admire him. He's a force of nature.
He's just pushy.
No... He's determined. Unstoppable 
Cocky.
Strong.
A brute.
My uncle used to say... we like people for their qualities but love them for their defects.
He  loves you.
I know.
What about you?
Don't know. Really. I grew up with him. I've missed him too, but now, every time I see him, I get confused. Hardly a day goes by he's not in my mind. Even now, I feel he's here 
It's freezing, isn't it?
Coffee's warming me up.
But it's not true, is it?
What  ?
That you feel that way about me.
You want to know  Now  ? Here? Red, white, whatever  Guys are all the same.
Hit me.
What?
You better have that looked at.
Just a scratch. I wanted to see you.
We miss you at the Bureau. Abe's crazier every day. And Father's still mad at me  Come back, Liz. Come back. I 
No. Not this time, H.B. It's been months since I've had an episode. And you know what? I'm learning to control it.
Goodnight, then.
Goodnight.
Um... Liz  I  there's something I'd like you to  something I need you to hear.
Well. Is it long?? I'm going out, but 
Out? Out out?
For a cup of coffee, but go ahead, read.
You're going alone?
No. Myers is taking me.
It's nothing. Just a list  It's not finished 
Oh, okay then. Maybe later then.
Hi.
I've changed my mind. I'll come to Moscow. If you  are still going 
But I understand what you don't like about me. I do. What I am makes you feel out of place  out there 
Red, I 
Listen. I'm not like Myers. He makes you feel like you belong. And  that's good. It really is. I  wish I could do something about this  But I can't. I can promise you only two things... One: I'll always look this good. Two: I won't give up on you. Ever.
I like that...
Good.
Okay, someone's expecting us. Turn on your locators  Anyone sees anything...
Marco...
...Polo.
You're kidding 
Those comics  They never got the eyes right.
Oh. Uh. Hello. I  I have these. For you.
Father's back? Still angry?
Whatcha looking at, John??
Ohnno  I 
Helping you  I just 
No one ever helps me. It's my job.
Myers??? How's your arm?
My arm is fine. Where are you??
I just fried Stinky. Tell Father I'll be home. He shouldn't wait up.
Wait  Wait  You can't go anywhere  I gotta go with you 
No, no, no, it's fine: I do my job, I take a break.
No. Stop. Don't do this  Listen to me  Tell me where you are 
Myers?
Yes?
Goodbye.
What took you so long?
C'mon, time to go home. Tape you up.
What are you, a Boy Scout?
No. I never was.
Could've fooled me. Go away.
You want me to hold him down?
That's right, Stud, hold me down.
Down there. Did you ever loose track of him?
Well, let's see  there was that moment, when I had a train on top of my head 
Mmmh  "Pamcakes." We're going out 
Professor, that girl you were talking about 
Hey. You: think twice 
I think I can help  Talk to her  I can bring her back.
What landed you this job, pushing "pamcakes"? Punctuality? What was your area of expertise?
What was that??
Hostage negotiations.
Where do you 
Shh! Just a second.
Myers, you're a talker. What's a good word  a solid word for "need" 
"Need" is a good, solid word.
Nah, sounds too "needy."
Start in, you got nachos coming.
Hey, your chili's getting cold 
Not hungry.
Anything else you 
Not from you.
Well good n
Good night.
Are you sure about this?
On a scale of one to ten: two. But   she'll take care of you, Myers. She's a tough one.
Keep her safe. No matter what. I'll deal with whatever's back there.
Alone?
How big can it be?
But not everyone was so lucky. Two agents died today. Clay probably won't survive the night. You're reckless.
I knew those men better than you did 
Ah, I see. That makes it all alright then.
No, it doesn't make it right, but I stopped that creature, didn't I?
That's what you do. That's why we need you. You have an insight. You know monsters.
What are you trying to say?
In the end, after you've killed and captured every freak out there  there's still one left: you.
I wish I could be more gracious but 
"One falls, two shall arise." So: you pop one, two come out. You kill two, you get four. You kill four, you're in trouble. We have to nail 'em all at once. And the eggs.
When we do: No mumbojumbo. Double core Vulcan65 grenades.
We've installed a very handy timer. Set it, walk away. Cable pulls the safety pins, Kboom! Easy to clean, easy to use...
Those things never work. Never.
Each of us gets a belt.
I won't take 'em. They never work.
We should go back  you  you could tear that door apart 
Don't move. We 
 should go back. Now!
No. Don't 
I'm in charge. We go back!
You'd better stay here. I'll find a way out. We'll come back for you.
You call that thing a cigar??
Yup.
You never, ever light a cigar that way.
Thank you.
My job.
That voice 
I sang the first lullaby you ever heard, my child. I ushered you into this world. I alone know your true calling, your true name.
Don't tell me, it's Zeppo.
She's dead.
Noooo! Noooo!!!
Names hold the power and nature of things. Mine for example. Rasputin: "The crossroads." And crossroads I have become. Your true name: AnungunRama. Repeat it. Become the key.
AnungunRama...
You will never fulfill your destiny. You will never understand the power inside you.
I can live with that.
They're not speaking. Professor Broom had him grounded.
Grounded? Who's grounded?
Okay. You saw the fish man, right?
He gets fed six times a day. He's got a thing for cats. You'll be his nanny, his keeper, his best friend. He never goes out unsupervised 
Who?!
Oh, Jesus!! Hellboy  ?? Is real 
Yup. Sixty years old by our count. But he doesn't age like we do  think dog years: He's barely out of his teens.
Uhoh  John. Staring at what?
His horns. He files 'em. To "fit in."
His what??!!
Sir, may I go first??
Not so fast. He barely knows him 
Who's the squirt?
Agent Myers is your new liaison.
Got tired of me?
Nah. I'll be around, Red, just back in the field.
I don't want him.
Manning says I'm too soft on you  The candy. Give him the candy.
Well, you did break out 
I wanted to see her. It's nobody's business.
It is. You got yourself on TV again.
"Myers", huh? You have a first name??
Try not to stare. He hates when people stare.
Hey, hey, hey. They're playing our song.
We're on the move.
C'mon, Champ! Happy Halloween!!! You're taking me for a walk!
At nineteen hundred hours an alarm tripped. B&E. Robbery. Six guards dead 
Hold on  hold on  I thought we checked this place. Fakes, and reproductions.
C'mon, champ. You look a little woozy, there.
This  ? This is nothing. You know what'll kill me? Her.
They took his name from this little inscription that was stuck on his tank.
Icthyo Sapiens, April 14, 1865.
The day Abraham Lincoln died. Hence "Abe" Sapien.
How does he know so much about me?
Abe possesses a unique frontal lobe. "Unique." That's a word you'll hear quite a bit around here.
Where am I  exactly, Sir?
As you entered the lobby there was an inscription 
On the desk, yes. In Latin.
Impressive. Do you remember what it said?
"In absentia luci, tenebrae vinciunt..."
"In the absence of light, darkness prevails." For there are things that go bump in the night, Agent Myers. We are the ones who bump back.
1958, the occult war finally ends when Adolf Hitler dies.
1945, you mean. Hitler died in '45.
Did he, now?
I'm in way over my head, I know that much.
You're doing fine.
And as a father, I worry about him. In medieval stories, Agent Myers, there's often a young knight, inexperienced but pure of heart...
Oh, please. I'm not "pure of heart."
A 16th century statue was destroyed. Saint Dionysius the Aeropagite.
Who wards off demons.
Smuggled into this country by an overzealous curator. The statue, however, was hollow 
Reliquary 
A prison. The Vatican deemed its contents dangerous enough to include it on the List of Avignon. Of which we hold a copy.
Son. About Rasputin 
Don't worry. I'll get him soon enough 
Listen to me. This time is different. There's more at stake than ever before.
How hard can it be? I punched the crap out of that thing that he sent  ouch!!
I worry about you.
Me?? C'mon 
Well, I won't be around forever, you know?
Oh, stop that  Damn! Be careful, there 
Don't look! Turn around.
Is it bad?
How many buildings does she have to burn? She belongs here!
That's not how she feels. She may never feel it.
It's her choice  She's human 
Oh, as opposed to  ?
Every time the media get a look at him, they come to me. I'm running out of lies, Trevor.
I thought you liked being on TV.
I do. How many escapes? This year alone: five!
Tom  he's our guest, not a prisoner.
Your "guest" happens to be six foot five, bright red, and is government funded.
He's just going through a phase 
These freaks, Trevor, they give me the creeps. And I'm not the only one. You're up for review. You and your petting zoo.
I know where to find him. I'll get him back.
It's almost over!!
No. It's not.
Do you believe in hell?
There is a place  a dark place where evil slumbers and awaits to return. From there it infects our dreams. Our thoughts. Grigory gave us a glance tonight 
Grigory  That's Russian, right? Thought they were on our side...
Grigory Yefimovich Rasputin 
C'mon  Rasputin??
Spiritual advisor to the Romanovs. In 1916, at a dinner in his honor, he was poisoned, shot, stabbed, clubbed, drowned and castrated.
That makes him more than a hundred 
What the hell was that? An ape?
No. It was red. Bright red.
It's got a big stone  in its hand 
I think that is its hand.
This is an important mission, Sgt. Whitman. I hope you realize that.
Oh  you don't wanna know what I think. Topside, now.
Sgt. Whitman!! Sgt. Whitman!! May I have a word??
What is it?
In private, if you don't mind...
You are a Catholic??
Amongst other things, yes  but that's hardly the point.
Here. You'll need one of these.
I abhor violence. Sergeant Whitman, I hope you don't think me mad 
Three days too late for that one, "professor."
You're wasting our time: There's nothing on this island but sheep and rocks.
Ruins. Not rocks. The remains of Trondham Abbey. Built on an intersection of Ley Lines, the boundaries between our world and the other 
What a load of crap. Hell, a week ago I hadn't even heard the word parabnormal 
"Paranormal" But  you read the transmission.
Half transmission. Nonsense  German ghost stories!
I have seen ghosts, Whitman.
Oh, I'll bet you have.
The freak in the gas mask 
Karl Ruprecht Kroenen, one of the Reich's top Scientists. Head of the Thule Occult Society.
If he's here, this is worse than I thought.
Air and sea backup. What's closest?
Cordon off the area. Something came through.
From where??!!
That's all for you, Sammy.
Red  you need to hear the rest of the information 
hound of resurrection 
See? I don't like that 
 Hound of resurrection?
harbinger of pestilence, seed of destruction 
Skip to the end, willya? How do I kill it  ?
It doesn't say 
Look at them ugly suckers, Blue. One sheet of glass between them and us.
Story of my life.
I break it, they see us, Happy Halloween. No more hiding. Outside. I could be outside 
You mean, outside... with her.
Don't get psychic with me.
Nothing psychic about it. You're easy.
How am I ever gonna get a girl?? I drive around in a garbage truck
Liz left us, Red. Take the hint.
We don't take hints.
Would'ya look at this babies? Made 'em myself. Holy water, silver shavings, white oak: the works.
Behind this door. A dark entity  Evil, ancient and hungry.
Hey. Stinky. Kitchen's closed. Whatcha havin'? Six library guards, raw? Plus belts and boots? Man, you're gonna need some heavy fiber to move that out 
Red, I found something 
Nah  he's taken care of.
No, listen this: Sammael, the desolate one, lord of the shadows, son of Nergal 
You were burned by some organic acid.
I'm lucky that way.
Red. How long was it latched onto you?
I dunno, maybe five seconds  ow!
Touched you five seconds. Laid three eggs.
Didn't even buy me a drink.
Remind me why I keep doing this.
Rotten eggs and the safety of mankind.
Oh, right 
I need to touch it to "see"...
See what??
The past, the future, whatever this object holds.
Is he serious??
Don't worry about fingerprints. I never had any.
They were over here, Professor.
Oooh!! Who was here? Nixon? Houdini? You mind sharing your mystic insights?
Where am I?
You're in the Malahide Institute. It's a psychiatric hospital. But, hey, don't feel judged  it was just the nearest place to bring you. Remember? You and your boyfriend...?
Steve...
Don't worry. He's O.K. We sent him home hours ago. Jeez, what a story.
What was it, kid? Smack? Angel dust? Don't tell me acid's back in fashion?
What are you talking about? Who are you?
Oh, excuse me...
I thought Steve had talked to you?
Oh, pardon me. I obviously didn't convey my hesitation to take his story at facevalue. No, YOU talk to me. But  do me a favor?  none of this DEMONS crap.
He talked about Demons, huh?
Yeah.
What the hell are you asking me for? Tag it. Move it.
The mattress... The mattress... JULIA.
Easy, easy. Whatever happened, whatever you saw, it's not here now.
I saw it... him. But I got away. And I took the box. And I solved it. And they came.
Who?
The Cenobites.
But I didn't open it! I didn't!
Then why are you here?
I've come for my father!
But it's true, he is his own Hell. Just as you are in yours.
And what about you?
Wait!
No more deals, Kirsty. It's your flesh we want to experience, not your skill at bargaining.
No deals! Just information. Information. Free of charge. No strings. Just information.
Go on. But trick us again, child, and your suffering will be legendary even in Hell.
What is this? Someone else you think escaped us, like Frank?
No, No, this one didn't escape. You told me you'd always been in Hell. You were wrong. Look at it. LOOK. IT'S YOU.
Nonsense, I...
It's you! You HAVEN'T always been as you are. You were HUMAN. Remember. Remember all your confusions. Think!
I... remember.
You were ALL human!
I have to go back. Or it'll never stop.
What are you talking...
I've got to finish it.
Finish what?
I'm scared.
No. Don't let it. You've come this far.
Well... G'bye.
It's been Hell.
So... You're Kirsty, huh?
You a doctor, too?
Sad, huh? She's been here six months. Her name's TIFFANY.
What's the matter with her?
Almost complete withdrawal. She hasn't said a word for nearly two years.
God, that's terrible.
Yeah. Doctor Malahide's got her doing these jigsaws and things, though. Says it's helping to bring her out.
I... I had a visitor.
What?
Oh, Jesus. I can't explain. It's... it's. I don't know how to help! I have to save him and I don't know how to help!
Kirsty, I'm sorry... don't understand. I...
I know. Noone can. But I have to save him. Where's the other doctor? He said He'd listen. He promised.
Help. No, noone can help. I just want someone to listen or I WILL go crazy.
If anyone can help, HE can.
No bad dreams.
So you slept O.K.?
Well, the sofa isn't often used for sleeping on...
Oh yeah? On your own a lot, Huh?
And you're sure it was a woman?
God, I wish I could say no. This is going to do terrible things to my attitude, you know.
Don't worry about it. Your attitude sucks anyway.
Hey, so for it. Don't let pity stop you. I'm down. Nail me.
The box. I need the box.
The box? Like in your story? Like in his house?
What?
The Boxes. In the House. I told you.
What do you mean?
The boxes! I TOLD you.
You DIDN'T tell me. Do you mean Malahide's got...
Yeah. The things you were talking about.
Get out of the way.
Are you crazy?
I don't know, Kyle. You're the fucking expert. Now get out of the way!
WHY?
Because I'm going to get my father!
O.K. Let's go.
Kyle, you don't have...
I KNOW I don't have to. It's just my time of the month to be a complete fucking idiot. O.K.?
Yes... Yes. You look...
Surreal? Strange? Nightmarish?
No. You look...
It's a beautiful dress...
I know.
She's done it.
She certainly has.
It's coming.
It certainly is.
I want to go back!
Sorry, friend. No day trips to Hell. Here you are. Here you stay. And forward the only way to go.
I knew you'd come back.
I'm a girl who keeps her promises.
Oh, right. Daddy's died and gone to heaven, eh?
Yes!
Shit. Bull. Shit.
See? He's here. You should learn to believe your Uncle Frank.
No! He SHOULDN'T be here! It SHOULD'VE been a trick!
'Fraid not, baby. He belongs here. With me. We're the same. Brothers. Equal and opposite. Pure appetite. Pure banality. Too much feeling. None at all.
He... he loved me.
Don't waste your tears. Look at him!
Daddy! Daddy! I love you! Help me!
I'm your Daddy now, Kirsty.
Well, well. All my family together again. How very sweet.
Julia.
Frank.
I knew you'd come.
You knew?
Yes. You're a girl who remembers her promises.
Oh, I do. I do.
Oh, Kirsty; so eager to play, so reluctant to admit it.
Perhaps you're teasing us. Are you teasing us?
It's different for us.
We've always been here.
We have no more surprises.
Oh. No Boxes. Such a shame.
No more delays, Kirsty. No more teasing. Time to play.
Time to play.
Ah! There you are, madam. Were not you the lady who drove my car off yesterday?
Was that the one with the St. Christopher medal on the dashboard?
Yes.
Then I suppose it was me. Get in, Harold.
Were you also the one who painted the statues?
Oh, yes. How did you like that?
Well, I didn't.
Oh, don't be too discouraged. For aesthetic appreciation  always a little time.
But wait...
Good afternoon, Officer. Bit of trouble here?
Yes, ma'am. Somebody had some trouble parking.
Well, it's a tricky turn.
Eh, yes, ma'm.
Tell me   is that car parked all right?
Oh yes. That's fine.
Well, thank you. Eh, officer, you might turn off the radio. Saves the battery.
Good idea of yours to come out here, Harold. It's a lovely spot.
Thank you, Uncle.
Call me "sir," Harold. First thing you learn in the Army  an officer deserves your respect.
Yes, sir.
Perfectly lovely. You know, this is what we're defending. Everything that's good and beautiful in the American way of life. Oh, there's some nut peace petitioner over there. Let's go off this way. Those crazy Commie bastards. I don't know why we tolerate 'em. Parasites.
Let's examine the facts on it. I say this country has been too harsh in its outright condemnation of war. I say you can point to many material advantages brought about by a crisis and conflict policy. Hell, World War II gave us the ballpoint pen. That's common knowledge.
During wartime the national suicide rate goes down.
Is that a fact? Well, that fits in right along with everything I've been saying. War is not all black.
War is not all black.
And so I ask you  why the hell did we give up on the Germans? Those damn politicians in Washington chalked them up on our side and the wars ever since have been a national disgrace. Hell, look at history. The two best wars this country has fought were against the Jerries. Now I say, get the Krauts on the other side of the fence where they belong, and let's get back to the kind of enemy worth killing and the kind of war this whole country can support.
Jeez, sir. That's pretty strong stuff.
They came at me from all sides, hundreds of 'em. We kept firing  ZatTatTatTat! "Throw the grenades," I shouted. "Mac, throw the grenades!" "He's dead," Joe said, and kept right on feeding me bullets. ZatTatTatTat! They kept falling, but they kept coming. Bullets whizzing all around me. Zot! Joe falls back with a neat red hole in his head. I thought I was done for. But I kept firing. ZatTatTat! Only one thought kept me going. Kill! Kill! For Mac, and Joe, and the rest of the guys. Kill!  a blinding flash. I wake up on a stretcher. "Did we hold?" I asked the medic. "Yes, sir," he said, and I slipped into unconsciousness.
Jeez! That's a great story,
Well, you'll soon have stories like that to tell of your own.
You think so, sir?
Sure. Be able to tell your children. Something for them to look up to. Be proud of.
I hope so, sir. Golly I never knew it could be so exciting.
It's the greatest excitement in the world.
To pit your own life against another.
That's right.
To kill. The taste of blood in your mouth.
The moment of truth.
Another man's life in your sights.
Yes.
ZAT!
Will they really teach me to shoot?
Oh, sure. A variety of weapons.
And to use the bayonet? PACHOIE!
Oh sure.
How about handtohand combat?
Yes.
To strangle someone. Choke him. Squeeze out his life between your hands.
Eh?
How about to slit his throat?
Well, I don't...
I'd like that. You could see the blood squirt out.
Harold, I think you're getting carried away here.
Sir, how about souvenirs?
Souvenirs?
Of your kill  ears, nose, scalp, privates.
Harold!
What's the chance of getting one of these?
Boy, to think I could maybe make my own.
Harold! That's <u>disgusting</u>!
Parasite!
Harold!
Crazy parasite! Commie bastard! Get out of here.
Harold, calm down! This is...
She's a Commie pig. We're going to nail every last one...
Stay where you are, Harold .
She took my head.
Tell me, Harold, how many of these, eh, suicides have you performed?
An accurate number would be difficult to gauge.
And why is that?
Well, some worked out better than others  some had to be abandoned in the planning stages  do you include the first time?  then there's the question of maiming...
Just give me a rough estimate.
Well, a rough estimate... I'd say fifteen.
Fifteen.
A rough estimate.
And were they all done for your mother's benefit?
I wouldn't say "benefit."
No, I suppose not. How do you feel about your mother?
I don't think I'm getting through to Mother like I used to.
Does that worry you?
Yes. It does.
Why?
I put a lot of effort into these things.
Ah, yes.
And a lot of time.
I'm sure. But what else do you do with your time? Do you go to school?
No.
What about the draft?
My mother spoke to my Uncle Victor. He's in the Army and he fixed it up.
Oh. Well, how do you spend your day?
You mean when I'm not working on a...
Yes. What kind of things do you do?
I see. Junkyards. What is the fascination there?
I don't know.
Is it the machines? The noise? The people?
No. It's the junk. I like to look at junk.
What else do you like?
That's very interesting, Harold, and I think very illuminative. There seems to be a definite pattern emerging. Your fondness for useless machines and demolitions seems indicative of your present emotional state, your selfdestructive urges and your alienation from the regular social interaction. What do you think? And of course this pattern once isolated can be coped with. Recognize the problem and you are half way on the road to its solution. But tell me, what do you do for <u>fun</u>? What activity gives you a different sense of enjoyment than the others? What do you find fulfilling? What gives you that certain satisfaction?
I go to funerals.
Harold?
Huh?
You don't seem to be listening. I asked do you have any friends?
No.
None at all?
Well, maybe one.
Would you care to talk about this friend?
No.
Is this a friend you had when you were away at school?
No.
I see. Were you happy at school, Harold?
Yes.
You liked your teachers?
Yes.
Your classmates?
Yes.
Your studies?
Yes.
Then why did you leave?
I burnt down the Chemistry building.
We are not relating today, Harold. I sense a definite resistance. A lack of true and helpful communication. I find you a very interesting case, Harold, but this reluctance of yours is detrimental to the psychoanalytical process, and can only hinder the possibility of effective treatment. Do you understand?
Yes.
Very well. Now your mother tells me she is arranging several dates for you with some young ladies. How do you feel about that?
I see. Tell me, Harold, do you remember your father at all?
No. I'd have liked to.
Why?
I'd have liked to talk to him.
What would you say?
I'd show him my hearse. And my room, and stuff.
What kind of stuff?
How do you do?
Can't complain.
Would you like a cigarette?
No, thank you. They stain my fingers.
Is Sunshine your real name?
Well, actually, it was the name of my drama teacher  Louis Sunshine. Perhaps you've heard of him. He was such an influence on the development of my instrument. That means my body  in theatre talk. Well, when I came to Hollywood I felt the need to express the emerging me in a new form, so I took on "Sunshine." Dore is my real name... Well, Dore, actually. My, what a lovely place you have here.
Do you play?
No. I'm learning the banjo. Do you?
Oh, I studied the guitar. I had to give it up. Gave me calluses on my fingers. As an actress I can't afford to have a tarnished instrument.
Oh, is this your father?
No. My uncle.
Oh, he's in the Army. I do so like the military, don't you? Those uniforms make men look so virile. I did "What Price Glory?" in summer stock. I played Charmaine  with a French accent.
This one is particularly interesting. It's a harikari blade.
Ohhh. What's harikari?
An ancient Japanese ceremony.
Like a tea ceremony?
No. Like this.
Of course, Harold's father had a similar sense of the absurd. I remember once in Paris he stepped out for cigarettes and the next I hear he's arrested for floating nude down the Seine  experimenting in river currents with a pair of yellow rubber water wings. Well, that cost quite a little bit of "enfluence" and "d'argent" to hush up, I can tell you. Harold, dear, stop playing with your food. Don't you feel well?
I have a sore throat.
Well, I want you to go to bed directly after dinner. You know how susceptible you are to colds. Harold has always been a delicate child. Even as a baby he seemed to be abnormally prone to illness  Harold, dear, eat up your beets...
Mother.
Not now, Harold... You can't put me down for Monday?
Mother.
Harold, please! I'm on the phone.
Mother. I'm going to get married.
Fay, I'll call you back. What did you say?
I'm getting married.
To whom?
To a girl. Here.
I suppose you think this is very funny, Harold.
What?
A sunflower?
Love? Love? What do you <u>know</u> about her? Where does she come from? Where did you meet her?
At a funeral.
Oh... That's wonderful... I get an eightyyearold pallbearer for a daughterinlaw! Be reasonable, Harold! You're dealing with your life! What will people say?!
I don't care what people say.
You don't care! "Miss Shroud of 1890 Weds the Boy of a Thousand Deaths!" Listen to me...
I'm going to marry the woman I love.
Harold!
This is insane.
Perhaps it is.
Eh, no. Thank you.
You're welcome. Did you know him?
Eh, no.
Me neither. I heard he was eighty years old. I'll be eighty next week. A good time to move on, don't you think?
I don't know.
I mean, seventyfive is too early, but at eightyfive, well, you're just marking time and you may as well look over the horizon.
It's a question of emphasis, you might say. Accentuate the positive, so to speak.
Eh, could I have my pen back now, please?
Oh, of course. What is your name?
Harold Chasen.
How do you do? I am Dame Marjorie Chardin, but you may call me Maude.
Nice to meet you.
Oh, thank you. I think we shall be great friends, don't you?
Can I drop you anywhere, Harold?
No, thank you. I have my car.
Well then, I must be off. We shall have to meet again.
Do you dance?
What?
Do you sing and dance?
Eh, no.
No. I thought not.
Yes.
Oh, so do I. They're such fun, aren't they? It's all change. All revolving. Burials and births. The end to the beginning and the beginning to the end   the great circle of life. My, this old thing handles well. Ever drive a hearse, Harold?
Yes.
Well, it's a new experience for me. Good on curves. Shall I take you home, Harold?
But this is my car.
Your hearse?
Yearse!
Oh.
Of course, I've had to make some additions for the new models, but not as many as you might think. Once you have your basic set it's then only a question of variation.
And you get into any car you want and just drive off?
Not <u>any</u> car. I like to keep a variety. I'm always looking for the new experience, like this one. I liked it.
Thank you. But when you take these cars don't you think you are wronging the owners?
What owners, Harold? We don't <u>own</u> anything. It's a transitory world. We come on the earth with nothing, and we go out with nothing, so isn't "ownership" a little absurd?
Still, I think you'd upset people and I'm not sure that's right.
Well, if some people are upset because they feel they have a hold on some things, then I'm merely acting as a gentle reminder  I'm sort of breaking it easy  Here today, gone tomorrow, so don't get attached to <u>things</u>. Now, with that in mind, I'm not against collecting stuff...
It's all memorabilia, but incidental and not integral, if you know what I mean.
It's very interesting.
Oh, look! The birds.
She's very sweet, but so old fashioned. Please sit down, Harold. I'll put on the kettle and we'll have a nice hot cup of tea.
Thank you, but I really have to go.
But it's oat straw tea. You've never had oat straw tea, have you?
No.
Well then.
Thank you, but it's an appointment. I really shouldn't miss it.
Oh, at the dentist's?
Sort of.
Well, then, you must come back and visit.
All right.
My door is always open.
All right.
Promise?
Harold?
Maude???!
How about some ginger pie?
Eh, fine.
I'll heat some up. My, it's nice to see you again, Harold. How's your hearse?
Oh, it's fine. Fine.
She seemed yare to me.
Do you often model for Glaucus?
Heavens no! I don't have the time. But I like to keep in practice and poor Glaucus occasionally needs his memory refreshed as to the contours of the female form. Do you disapprove?
Me! No. Of course not.
Really. Do you think it's wrong?
No.
Oh, I'm so happy you said that because I wanted to show you my paintings. This is the "Rape of Rome" and, of course, there in the corner is quite a graphic depiction of Leda and the Swan.
A selfportrait. But over here is my favorite. It's titled "Rainbow with Egg Underneath and an Elephant." Do you like it?
Yes. Very much.
It was my last. I then became infatuated with these  my "Odorifics."
Now I'll pump it up... ... and you just turn the handles. Okay. What do you smell?
Subways... Perfume... Cigarette... ... Cologne... Carpet... Chestnuts! ... <u>Snow!</u>
It goes on and on.
That's really great.
What do you think?
Oh. Eh, I like it.
No, you have to touch it. You have to run your hands over it, get close to it, really reach out and feel. You try it.
Here we are, Harold. Oat straw tea and ginger pie.
Certainly a new experience for me.
Wonderful! Try something new each day. After all, we're given life to find it out. It doesn't last forever.
You look as if you could.
Me. Ha! Did I tell you I'll be eighty on Saturday?
You don't look eighty.
That's the influence of the right food, the right exercise, and the right breathing. Greet the dawn with the Breath of Fire! Of course, there's no doubt the body is giving out. I'm well into autumn. I'll have to be giving it all up after Saturday. Sweeten the tea with honey, Harold. It's delicious.
That's a nice teapot.
Sterling silver. It was my dear motherinlaw's, part of a dinner set of fifty pieces. It's one of the few things that survived. Oh, but I do rattle on so. Tell me about yourself, Harold. What do you do when you aren't visiting funerals?
Well, it's all very thrilling, of course, but I ask you, Harold... Is it enough?
What do you mean?
I should like to change into a sunflower most of all. They are so <u>tall</u> and simple. And you, Harold, what flower would you like to be?
I don't know. Just one of those.
Why do you say that?
Because they are all the same.
Oooh, but they are not. Look.
Boy, Maude. The way you handle cars. I'd never handle a car like that.
Oh, it's only a machine, Harold. It's not as if it were <u>alive</u>, like a horse or a camel. We may live in a machine age, but I simply can't treat them as equals. Of course, the age has its advantages.
The universal language of mankind. What music do you like, Harold?
Well...
What happened?
Look.
What?
Over there by the courthouse.
What is it?
That little tree. It's in trouble. Come on.
Look at it, Harold. It's suffocating. It's the smog. People can live with it, but it gives trees asthma. They can't breathe. See the leaves are all brown. Harold, we've got to do something about this life.
But what?
We'll transplant it. To the forest.
But we can't just dig it up!
Why not?
But this is public property.
Exactly.
Don't you think we should get some tools, maybe?
Yes, you're right. We'll go see Glaucus. Come on.
Oh, wait, Maude. Look!
Oh, my. We're too late.
Is he all right?
He's fallen asleep, as usual.
We'll come back in the morning.
What is that he's working on?
An ice sculpture. It's Venus  the Goddess of Love, the completion of which is his unfulfilled dream.
It is kind of rough.
He's never finished one yet. He has around him every kind of hand tool known to man, but the poor dear has difficulty staying awake.
Look, the ice is melting.
Yes.
A little afterdinner liqueur, Harold?
Well, I really don't drink...
Oh, it's all right. It's organic.
Thank you.
Some nuts? Some licorice? It has no nutritional value but then consistency is not really a human trait.
Thank you.
What's that?
My umbrella? Oh, that's just a relic. I found it when I was packing to come to America. It used to be my defense on picket lines and rallies and political meetings  being dragged off by police or attacked by thugs of the opposition. A long time ago.
What were you fighting for?
Oh, Big Issues. Liberty. Rights. Justice. Kings died and kingdoms fell. I don't regret the kingdoms  what sense in borders and nations and patriotism  but I do miss the kings. When I was a little girl I was taken to the palace in Vienna, to a garden party. I can still see the sunshine, the parasols, and the flashing uniforms of the young officers. I thought then I would marry a soldier. Later, Frederick would chide me about it. He was so serious. A doctor at the University. And in the government.
No.
No more revolts.
Oh, yes! Every day. But I don't need a defense anymore. I embrace! Still fighting for the Big Issues but now in my small, individual way. Shall we have a song?
Well, I don't...
Oh come on. I'll teach you.
Oh, that was fun. Let's play something together.
But I don't play anything.
Don't play anything! Dear me. Everyone should be able to make some music. Why, it's life!  Rhythm and harmony  That's the cosmic dance. Come with me.
Okay?
Superb.
I think he's following us.
Is he? Ah, the police. Always wanting to play games. Well, here goes.
He's stopped.
The old double Uturn. Gets them every time.
There. Oh, I like the feel of soil, don't you? And the smell. It's the earth. "The earth is my body. My head is in the stars." Who said that?
I don't know.
I suppose I did. Well, farewell little tree. Grow up tall, and change, and fall to replenish the earth. Isn't it wonderful, Harold? All around us. Living things.
Oh, those motorcycles are awfully chilly.
Yeah. And it is cold in here. Hello, Glaucus.
I <u>think</u> I see it.
Yes. It's almost there.
The ice is melting.
Yes.
Don't you think we should turn off the heat?
Why? There'll be a new block of ice in the morning.
I like Glaucus.
Yes, so do I. But I think he is a little... oldfashioned. Like a puff, Harold?
Well, I really don't smoke.
It's all right. It's organic.
I'm sure picking up on vices.
Vice? Virtue? It's best not to be too moral. You cheat yourself out of too much life. Aim above morality. As Confucius says, "Don't simply be good. Make good things happen."
Did Confucius say that?
Well   they say he was very wise, so I'm sure he must have.
You are the wisest person I know.
Me! When I look around me I know I know nothing. I remember though, once long ago in Persia, we met a wise man in the bazaar. He was a professional and used to sell his wisdom to anyone willing to pay. His specialty for tourists was a maxim engraved on the head of a pin. "The wisest," he said, "the truest, the most instructive words for all men at all times." Frederick bought one for me and back at the hotel I peered through a magnifying glass to read the words  "And this too shall pass away." Well, the wise man was right  if you remember that, you can't help but live life fully.
Yes. I haven't lived. I've died a few times.
What was that?
Died! Seventeen times  not counting maiming. Shot myself in the face once with a popgun and a pellet of blood.
How ingenious! Tell me about them.
Well, it's a question of timing, and the right equipment, and plenty of patience... You really want to hear about this?
Of course.
Okay.
Yes. I understand. A lot of people enjoy being dead. But they are not dead really. They're just backing away from life. They're players  but they sit on the bench. The game goes on before them. At any moment they can join in. Reach out! Take a chance! Get hurt maybe. But play as well as you can. Go team, go! Give me an "L." Give me an "I." Give me a "V." Give me an "E." LIVE!!!!! Otherwise you'll have nothing to talk about in the locker room.
I like you, Maude.
I like you, Harold. Come, I'll teach you to waltz.
Look at that sky. It's so big.
It's so blue.
And beyond the blue is the blackness of the cosmos.
Spreckled with uncountable stars. The stars are shining right now. We just can't see them. Just another instance of all that's going on that is beyond human perception.
Maude, do you pray?
Pray? No. I communicate.
With God?
With Life.
This is really nice. Makes me feel like a kid. I want to do somersaults .
Well, why don't you?
No. I'd feel stupid.
Harold, everyone has the right to make an ass out of themselves. You just can't let the world judge you too much.
Want to join me in some cartwheels?
No. I feel more like  yodeling.
Yodeling?
It's sinking, Harold. Going over the horizon  where we are all going to go. It's getting dark. "Let each man hold on to his candle and get a light where'er he can."
Where's that?
From the guys who got the matches, of course.
Boy! It sure has been a wonderful day. And you  you are beautiful.
Oh, Harold. You make me feel like a schoolgirl.
Shall I drop by tomorrow? Oh, I have a luncheon date. With this girl.
Oh.
I've never met her. My mother set it up.
Well, be kind. I've lived a long time, Harold, seen evil as well as good, and it has been my experience that kindness...
Maude, I must speak to you.
What is it, Harold?
They're going to draft me. In the Army. I'm going to be sent away.
But they can't do that. You haven't even got the vote.
But they have.
Well, don't go.
But they'll put me in jail.
Really. Just put it there, Harold.
They'd put you in jail, eh? Well, historically you'd be in very good company. That's what my husband used to say when we were in the French Underground dealing with the Gestapo. Would you like to do a little raking? Work, I'm told, done with no selfish interest, purifies the mind. You sink your separate self and become one with the universal self. On the other hand, senseless labor is a bloody bore and should be scrupulously avoided.
Maude, do you think you can help me?
What? With your skill and my experience... I think we can come up with something.
Don't you talk to me like that, you little foul mouth degenerate! Really, sir, I thought that you at least...
Traitor! Benedict Arnold! Remember Nathan Hale, right, sir?
Don't you advance on me.
... of you. You'll all end up like this.
Just like this.
Give me that. I'm going to throw it in the sewer where it belongs.
She took my head.
That wasn't very scary.
No. It had nothing on this afternoon.
Oh, you weren't scared.
Scared? Swimming underwater with that oxygen device of yours. I was petrified.
Come on, you loved it. It was a new experience.
How about some candy floss?
Right on! It wouldn't be a celebration without it.
You sure have a way with people.
Well, they're my species.
Look at the stars.
Yes. They're old friends.
Do you think there is any life up there?
I don't know. Perhaps.
Science thinks there isn't. That we are all alone in the universe.
We <u>are</u> alone  you and me and everybody. But we can look at those stars and maybe someone down the beach or across the sea in China is looking at them, too. Someone we don't know and most likely will never see  that someone is breathing along with us. And the star gazers of the past  from peasant to princes  and the stargazers of the future  all of us breathing and looking up there. We are alone  but look at the stars and never feel lonely.
You should have been a poet.
Oh, no. But I should have liked to have been an astronaut. A private astronaut able to just go out and explore. Like the men who sailed with Magellan, I want to see if we really can fall off the edge of the world. What a joke it will be if like them I 
 end where I began.
Maude.
Yes.
Here.
Why are there no photographs in these frames?
I took them out.
Why?
They mocked me. They were representations of people I dearly loved yet they knew these people were gradually fading from me, and that in time all I would have left would be vague feelings  but sharp photographs! So I tossed them out. My memory fades, I know. But I prefer pictures made by me with feeling, and not by Kodak with silver nitrate.
I'll never forget you, Maude. But I would like a photo of you.
It looks like you. Thanks.
Harold, that picture is almost twentyfive years old.
You haven't changed a bit. I'll put it in my wallet.
I was remembering how much this meant to me. It was after the war... I had nothing... except my life. How different I was then  and yet how the same.
You've never cried before. I never thought you would. I thought, despite anything, you could always be happy.
Oh, Harold. You are so young.
Supper for two.
Oh, you've thought of everything. And champagne.
It's all right. It's organic.
Oh, Harold.
For you.
... which I hope will make you very happy.
Oh, I am happy, Harold. Ecstatically happy. I couldn't imagine a lovelier farewell.
Farewell?
Why yes. It's my eightieth birthday.
But you're not going anywhere, are you?
Oh yes, dear. I took the pills an hour ago. I should be gone by midnight.
Oh, Harold! What a fuss this is. So unnecessary.
Maude, please. Don't die. I couldn't bear it. Please, don't die.
But, Harold, we begin to die as soon as we are born. What is so strange about death? It's no surprise. It's part of life. It's change.
But why now?
I thought eighty was a good round number.
I feel giddy.
But Maude, you don't understand. I love you. Do you hear me? I've never said that to anyone in my life before. You're the first. Maude. Please don't leave me.
Oh, Harold, don't upset yourself so.
It's true. I can't live without you.
"And this too shall pass away."
Never! Never! I'll never forget you. I wanted to marry you. Don't you understand! I love you. I love you!
Oh! That's wonderful, Harold. Go  and love some more.
Chardin. Dame Marjorie. But you may call me Maude.
Please! She has got to see a doctor right away.
Please, don't you realize? She is dying.
Well, not <u>dying</u>, actually. I'm changing. You know, like from winter to spring. Of course, it is a big step to take.
What do you want?
I'm sorry. I was looking for Maude.
Sorry I'm late.
A rather free translation but nonetheless correct. Greetings to you too, my little one. Tell me, what do you see?
A block of ice.
Exactly! Now, ask me what I see.
What do you see?
I see the eternal goddess of beauty and love. I see Aphrodite. The consummate woman.
Here's your shovel.
What?... Oh yes... Shovel... Create ... Verily these issues lie in the lap of the gods... Iliad... Just sit down for a minute.
This way, Edith. Harold is out by the garage. He has a new car and he has been tuning it up. He's very mechanical.
What kind of a car is it?
Oh. It looks like a hearse. Very nice. Compact.
Edith, I'd like you to meet my son, Harold. Harold, this is Edith... eh?
Fern. I'm very pleased to make your acquaintance.
And what do you do, my dear?
I'm a file clerk  Harrison Feed and Grain.
How interesting.
Not very.
Oh. Well, what is it exactly that you do?
I'm in charge of all the invoices for the southwest. We supply, for example, most of the egg farmers in Southern California. So you can imagine.
Edith was just telling me about her job.
I'm a file clerk.
Yes. Henderson Feed and Grain.
Harrison. Harrison Feed and Grain... At Hamilton and Fourth... I'm in charge of the invoices... And I type up the schedule for the trucking fleet...
She supplies the whole southwest with chicken feed.
Well, not all the southwest. Although we do have a large business... Barley was very big last week... Fifteen hundred...
Lady, you were going 70 miles an hour in a 45mile zone. Could I see your license, please?
Yes. Those little pieces of paper with your picture on it?
Yes.
Oh, I don't have one.
Come again.
I don't have one. I don't believe in them.
How long have you been driving?
About fortyfive minutes, wouldn't you say, Harold? We were hoping to start sooner but, you see, it's rather hard to find a truck.
Could I see your registration?
I just don't think we have one, unless it's in the glove compartment. Could you look, Harold?
Isn't this your vehicle?
No, no. I just took it.
Took it?
Yes. You see I have to plant my tree.
Your tree.
Well, it's not really mine. I dug it up in front of the courthouse. We're transplanting it. Letting it breathe, you know. But, of course, we would like to get it into soil, as soon as possible.
Lady, let me get this straight.
All right, then, and we'll be off. Nice chatting with you.
Okay, lady. Out.
Hello.
Haven't we met before?
None of that, lady.
Oh, well. Must have been your brother.
Out!
But there is a family resemblance.
You too, Buster. Stand over here. Lady, you're in a heap of trouble. I have you down here for several violations; speeding, resisting arrest, driving without a license, driving a stolen vehicle, possession of a stolen tree... Where's the tree?
We planted it.
Is this your shovel?
No.
Possession of a stolen shovel.
Officer, I can explain.
Lady, resisting arrest is a serious criminal offense. Under the state criminal code, section 545, paragraph 10B...
Oh, don't get officious. You're not yourself when you're officious. That's the curse of a government job.
Lady, is it true you're driving without a license?
Check.
And that truck  is it registered in your name?
Oh no! Not in <u>my</u> name.
Then whose name is it registered in?
Well, I don't know. Do you know, Harold?
Where are the papers?
I suppose they are in the truck. Are you going to take a lot of time with this?
Wait here.
Because if you are...
Lady! Be quiet.
Hello, I'm Candy Gulf.
How do you do. I'm Mrs. Chasen. Come in.
You are at the University, Candy?
Yes, I am.
And what are you studying?
Poli. Sci. With a home ec minor.
Eh, Poli Sci?
Political Science. It's all about what's going on.
He seems very nice. Is Harold interested in, eh, what's going on? I think it's such a super thing to study. And then, of course, I can always fall back on home ec.
Yes, that's good planning. Tell me, are you a regular, Candy, in this computer club?
I think I should mention, Candy, that Harold does have his eccentric moments.
Oh, <u>yes</u>? Well, that's all right. I've got a brother who's a real cutup, too. I'll never forget the time we had this old TV set with no parts in it. Well, Tommy stuck his head behind it and started giving a newscast before the whole family. We were all hysterical. And here's little Tommy pretending to be Walter Cronkite.
You remember me. Louise? Rhymes with squeeze.
You working in San Diego now?
I'm still in L.A., but I'm looking for Tod. I heard he was around.
'Was.' He and that shitheel Ratan went down to TJ. Maybe I shouldn't say that. Anyway, I hear he's back in Frisco now.
Was he with a girl?
No.
Thanks.
Hey, pisshead, what brings you around?
You don't have to get uppity with me, Bill. I remember when you was running that car wash and couldn't make it go. And what was that other thing you tried? A Dairy Queen? Went busted too.
At least I improved myself. What's up?
I want you to take a look at this girl here. She's been in some porn stuff.
No, Andy. Don't know the kid.
Look again, Billyboy. This is jail bait. Could get you in a lotta trouble.
Nope never saw her before. Kurt, come over here. Don't use underage kids. Wouldn't touch 'em for all the cow shit in Mexico. You recognize this piece of wool, Kurt?
You know Granville's looking for you, Niki?
My name ain't Niki. It's Pattica, like in Attica.
Granville's looking for you anyway.
Who's that?
The guy who bought you that ring.
Well, he can just fuck himself.
You can fuck off, too.
You're taking a big chance.
I ain't ever gonna see him again anyway.
Oh no? What you gonna do? Get a job?
Jake'll take care of me.
Who? Van Dorn? You must be kidding yourself, honey. You think once that guy finds his daughter he'll care about you?
Ssh. I'm on a stakeout.
Oh.
I'm staking out this beer bottle. Trying to find out if I'll finish it or it'll finish me.
I'm worried about Jake.
I'm off that case. He fired me.
He didn't look good at all. Something strange is going on. He's got himself into some trouble. He wouldn't say what.
I'll tell you, that was an interesting case. The Van Dorn girl. I've handled runaway cases like it before. Usually when you put the pressure on the porn underworld for an underage kid, she pops up in about a week. Everybody denies ever seeing her, but there she is at the airport with a prepaid ticket home. Well, I put pressure on all over town for this girl and it stayed cold as ice. In fact, certain people for this girl and  nothing. I guess I gave your brotherinlaw sort of a raw deal.
I want to rehire you. To find out what's happening to my brotherin law.
I've been on another case. All day. I suppose I can move it over. Seven fifty a week, plus travel expenses.
Do you really think Kristen is just a runaway?
Maybe. Maybe not.
I also want you to protect my brother inlaw.
Huh?
You have to understand. He can be mean, selfrighteous. He had a Vishund once. Loved that dog. He came home one day and the dog bit him. He took that dog and staked him out in the back yard. It was winter. Every day he came home and watched that dog until he froze. He's capable of doing anything.
To his own daughter?
To anybody.
You going to Knott's Berry Farm with him?
He asked me. You going with anybody?
I don't know.
You ever play Chicken?
What's that?
You never heard of that?
Com'on, tell me.
Well, a boy goes like this, see.
What does that do?
Well, each time he comes in closer, like this.
I got a picture here. I want you to tell me where to find this woman. I been asking everybody. Nobody knows anything.
Calm down, mister. You don't want to get the cops in here do you? You got a family?
I don't suppose you've ever seen this girl before either? Her name's Kristen, but I suppose you've never seen her?
Why don't you just go outdoors, mister? Cool off.
Cool off, huh? How's this for cooling off?
Hold it, mister.
What do you think of that? Or this?
No. I walked up. Don't ride elevators.
My secretary said you wanted to discuss a business proposition.
Yes. I'm interested in financing an adult feature film. I was told you were the man to come to.
Film making can be pretty expensive...
I've got fifty thousand dollars to invest.
Oh. Why is it that you want to get into film financing?
Well, Bill  mind if I call you Bill? Let me be frank. I've made a lot of money. I've got my own business in Detroit. Rivets. I make rivets and sell them to Fisher Body. Well, rivets, you know, can get pretty boring after a while. When my business manager told me I should shelter some money, I thought I'd try this.
What exactly do you have in mind?
I thought I'd invest in a film. I want to sort of become involved in the process of making a film, meet the people who make films, learn how it's done...
In other words, you want to get laid?
Not exactly...
It's cool. Why do you think I got in the movies? How much poon do you think you get in the car wash business? Look, fifty thousand dollars buys a lot of pussy. You can get your joint pulled by beautiful girls every night for the rest of your life for fifty thousand dollars. So why fuck with the movie business?
It's an investment.
If you want to watch when we shoot a film, for fifty bucks, I let guys stand around and watch. It's a lot cheaper.
I thought you were a businessman.
Don't get me wrong. A couple years ago, I woulda jumped at fifty thousand dollars possible financing. But the Lord's been good to me. I can now finance any films I choose. Big ones, small ones. Right now we're setting up a two hundred thousand dollar feature film. Live sound. I like to keep my own money in my films. That way you don't have to share the profits. There's plenty of guys in town that'll take it, though. But if I was you, Mr... what was your name again?
Jake.
...I'd just start my own business. That's what I did. Get into kid porn. That's big now. Why don't you come around the set? Meet some people. If you still want to invest, I'll ask around.
Sounds all right.
Okay. Keep in touch with my secretary.
Fifty cents admission.
What?
It's fifty cents admission. It's applicable to a purchase.
Do you have a, ah, film called 'Slave of Love?'
What we got is just these here. What you see.
It's a short film.
They're all about the same. You want something?
This is from the movie I was talking about.
I don't know what you're talking about.
I wondered if you had ever seen this film or this woman... ...right here.
That girl? No, never saw her. I don't know anybody.
I'm just trying to find... Who owns this store?
I don't know. Look, man, if you're looking for somebody maybe you ought to see the cops.
But I...
I don't know nothing, man.
You don't want anything for your fifty cents?
No.
Here. Take your fifty cents back.
That's all right.
No, take it. I don't want your Goddamn fifty cents.
I hear you got money to spend. I hear you're interested in... interesting things.
Yeah.
Do you work for the San Francisco Police Department, or do you have any other affiliation with any law enforcement agency?
No.
What you got in mind?
I want to meet Ratan.
What is that? A kind of chair? I never heard of no Ratan.
I was told that there were certain things that only Ratan could provide.
You're talking about real excitement?
Yeah. I heard you and Ratan just came from Mexico. And that you had a film of a girl being, ah you know...
Who told you about this?
Rucker.
I don't know no Ratan, but I may be able to help you out. It's not me, of course. Just helping out a friend. It'll cost you five hundred bucks for a single screening.
Is this with a girl named Kristen?
Umhm. You got the five hundred?
Well...
Take it or leave it.
Okay.
Meet me here today at seven o'clock. With the money. Then we'll go see the film.
Good.
What do you want? Do I know you from somewhere?
I want to know where my daughter is. Her name is Kristen, or Joanne. She's with you.
I don't know what you're talking about.
You wait here. I'll find out where she is.
You ain't goin' nowhere alone.
Where's Ratan?
Who?
That film was a fake! Everything's phony...
Ratan!
Who the fuck knows? The Four Aces. He goes there.
Let's go.
Hey man.
We're casting for an explicit sex action feature...
I know. Word's out on the street  word's also out you ain't really hiring anyone.
That's not true, Mr...?
Jim Sullivan. Sometimes they call me Jism Jim.
That's not true, Jim. In fact, I think you're very close to the type we're looking for.
Oh yeah? I've done a lot of good stuff. Shorts, features. No major roles it's true. But good stuff.
That's what I wanted to talk to you about.
Oh yeah? I remember that. It was made by some college kids.
It was called 'Slave of Love.'
God, I don't know what it was called. I never saw it. I only got twenty five bucks for the whole Goddamned thing.
I thought you were quite good in it. I also like the girl in it. Really thought she was good. I wondered if she was still around. If she was still working.
Hey, stop, stop. I'll do anything you want. It's okay. I can dig it. You can do anything you want to me.
Where is she? Where is the girl?
She's got a man. A white guy. Tod something or other.
Where does he hang out?
I don't know.
Where!
Look, I know this chick Niki. She works at Les Girls. She would know. Honest.
You want to go for coffee after we send the girls off?
No. Thanks anyway. I've got to get over to the office.
Anne wants to make sure you come over for dinner Sunday. With Kristen gone you'll be all alone.
What is it, Jake?
Wes, Anne, come here a moment.
What happened?
They don't know. They were having some recreation deal out at Knott's Berry Farm and Kristen wasn't there when they got back to the bus and they couldn't find her.
Is Marsha there?
Yeah. She's quite upset. I'm going to fly out today. They want me to bring some pictures.
I'll come with you. Let me pack some things.
How's your business, Jake?
Pretty good.
You should come around more often. You haven't been around for weeks. Anne complains she doesn't see you anymore.
Jake?
How did you find me?
I called every L.A. hotel. The Holiday Inn gave this as a referral number. Your office said you had no business in New York, so I figured you had come out here. What's happening, Jake? What are you doing? Nobody's heard from you. Anne's worried sick. We didn't know if you were dead or alive.
Wes, do me a favor.
What?
Leave me alone. Go home. Go away.
Just do what I say. Don't ask.
What is going on?
I think I've found a way to find Kristen. I have a plan. But I have to be alone.
What plan?
You don't want to know. Now, Wes, leave, please. For me.
What will I tell the others? They care about you.
Tell them anything you want. Tell them I'm on a vacation, a business trip. Tell them I needed a rest. Tell them anything, just don't tell them...
Those cops, like all cops, are intelligent enough, but they are masters of deductive reason. That is, you ask them what three and two are they'll tell you five, but if you ask them what five is, they go blank. That's speculative reasoning, and that's where I come in.
Well, what do they know?
Dogshit. Worse yet, they don't care.
So then, Mr. Mast...
Andy.
...What do you have to offer?
Let me ask you a personal question, a painful one. The first of many. Tell me, was your daughter the kind of girl to run around, to, ah, play practical jokes, maybe?
No, I didn't think she was. Let me get the picture here. Let me guess. She was an absolutely clean girl, a model daughter, she never had rebellious or impure thoughts, she didn't fuck around...
If I was you, Mr. Mast, I'd watch my language.
Hey, I'm a private detective, Van Dorn, you want to hire a choir boy you can go back to Grand Rapids. I've been to that scumbag town. It's full of them.
Who's paying you?
You are.
That's right.
As I was saying, I'll pick up the thread. There's a number of ways I can go. There's not much you can do here. Stay if you want. Maybe it'd be better if you went back home. Go through Kristen's personal stuff. Ask around, maybe she knew somebody out here. Look, I do this a lot. I work at a minimum rate of $750.00 a week. It may seem like a lot of money to you, but it ain't. You could hire cheaper.
And better?
I suppose. But I'll tell you, Jake, I'm like a little animal. When I get my teeth into something I never let go. If your daughter's here, I'll track her down.
Hello?
Mr. Van Dorn?
Mast?
Yeah.
Where are you? The connection sounds very good.
I'm back in Grand Rapids.
In G.R.? Why?
Can you meet me in about an hour? At the Pantlind Hotel?
I've got a meeting...
What are you paying me for?
I'll be there.
This used to be a real city. I was here about fifteen years ago. Embezzlement case. It was always a little religious for my taste, but at least it was a city. With a downtown and all.
What have you found out?
I've got some news. Your daughter's all right. At least I think she is.
Where is she?
I don't know.
What do you mean?
Have you ever seen any, ah, pornographic movies, Jake?
No.
Do you know what a "hardcore" movie is?
That's like a stag film.
Yeah. You ever seen any of those?
No.
They're legal now.
They are?
Yeah. All over. Even here in Grand Rapids.
Hmm.
There's a little stall theatre up here. It's closed now, but I'm borrowing it for an hour. I think there's something you'd better see.
Where is she?
I don't know.
Where did you get that film?
I bought it at a store in L.A.
Who made it?
I don't know.
What do you mean?
Wait. Slow down. A film like this, 16mm, cost two three hundred dollars, sold outright, shown in peep machines, maybe theatres, maybe not, is almost impossible to track. 'Nobody' makes it; 'nobody' shows it; 'nobody' sees it. It's like it doesn't even exist.
What's it called?
It was called 'Slave of Love' when I bought it. Next time it's sold, it'll be called something else.
But the police...
The police? They know less than you do.
Do you think she's safe?
Yeah. Probably.
You like this, don't you. Showing me... this.
I hate it. But you gotta know, buddy. A lot of strange things happen in this world. Things you don't know about in Grand Rapids. Things you don't want to know about. Doors that should never be opened. I've known more about this sort of thing than a man should. Don't ask me why.
I ain't cheated you, Pilgrim. This is research, damn it! That girl could have told us something.
Research, my ass. I suppose these are the 'extra expenses' I've been paying for? And in the middle of the morning, too.
Oh, fuck off. You should stay where you belong.
Get out. Get out of here, Goddammit.
I'm only human, you know.
Get out.
But this is my apartment.
Get out!
What are you doing here?
I felt like such a shit, pilgrim, after what I did to you  not that I did anything wrong  that I kept investigating, poking around. There's some poor s.o.b. in L.A. with his face all bent out of shape who you've damaged his movie career. Lucky for him, people don't look at his face.
Do the police want to arrest me?
Nah. They don't care about some faggot hustler. They're more interested in your daughter's health  and yours. Like I am.
Yeah, sure.
Listen, pilgrim, you're way out on a limb here. You don't know what you're into.
You sure as hell haven't been any help.
I'm sorry about that. Have you found anything out? You've got to tell me.
Why don't you tell me something for a change?
Like what?
Who is Ratan?
Where'd you hear that name?
I just heard. Who is he?
You know, it's possible to buy anything on this earth. You can buy child whores, slaves. You can have people raped, killed... One of the men who supposedly arranges such things is named Ratan. He usually isn't in this country. How'd you hear about him?
It's just a name.
Don't do anything more. I'll find out what I can.
Does she know anything about this?
Who? The whore? No. She's just a victim. A dime a dozen.
What happened, pilgrim?
Just leave me alone.
But I'm here to help you...
Andy, can you do something for her? Maybe money...
Go home, pilgrim. There's nothing you can do. Forget this place. Start over.
Are you the star of this picture?
You kidding? Three days work. I finish tonight.
The other girl is the star?
She thinks so. What do you do?
I work with Ramada. We're doing some pictures together.
Well, next time you talk to him, tell him to pay his actresses more.
Are you Niki?
Sure. Like in Mikey and Niki. Did you see that picture?
No.
Too bad. I wasn't in it.
It's your money. You talk.
I'm making a film. Jim Sullivan's going to be in it. He said you might know where Tod is.
Do I know you? Weren't you on the set the other night? With Ramada.
Yeah.
You making a feature?
Umhm. Live sound.
Got any parts? I'm free. Not free free, but, you know, free. I don't really do this.
Joanne?
You know her?
No. I saw her with Tod.
Do you know where she lives?
Nah.
Do you know where she would be?
Where is she?
Tod might know.
Where's he?
Last I heard he went to San Diego.
If we went there, would you be able to find him?
You're not a film producer, are you?
How much do you make a week, Niki?
Are you a private detective?
Something like that. How much do you make?
Here? What a joke. There was some detective asking about that girl.
Three hundred?
This is just temporary. I once made nine hundred in outcall.
I'll give you $700 a week, cash, if you help me find this girl.
Up front?
Half now, half later.
Make it nine hundred. That was my best week.
Okay. My client pays for it anyway.
When do we start?
Tonight. When you get out, we'll go. Why didn't you tell the other detective?
This is different. This is nine hundred dollars.
I thought you were going to bed?
I am.
No.
Huh?
Niki. Calm down. Relax. Let's just talk for a while. Then, later, you'll go back to your room and we'll get some sleep.
You have anything to drink? You want to go out and get something?
I don't drink, but you can go out.
You don't drink?
Ulcers.
You're not a private detective either, are you?
No.
I didn't think so. I've fucked detectives. Who are you?
A friend.
Of Joanne's?
Yeah. I'm her father.
Jesus.
Her name is Kristen. She disappeared a couple of months ago.
And your wife? Where's she?
She's dead.
Hey, don't worry about it. Your daughter's around. We'll find her in a couple days.
You really shouldn't eat like that. All that sugar. It's not good for you.
At least I'm a growing person.
You won't keep growing at this rate.
What rate?
You know what I'm talking about.
You never met a working girl before, have you? You think I like sucking off guys all night? Maybe I do. So what? You can't even say it, can you?
Say what?
'Sucking off.'
Okay. Sucking off. Now does that make me as good as you?
You don't understand shit.
Okay, tell me. Why do you live like you do?
Did you ever live in a room with six people and you didn't have any money, any food, any furniture? Have your brother come out, his car break down, he can't get a job? Your friends stealing food, going through trash behind a supermarket?
Is that the way it was with you?
No. But does it make any difference? How did you get to be the way you are?
Don't knock it. A girl can save up a lot money doing this  big money. Then you're free. You can go off to Europe, meet somebody, get married. My girlfriend's going to buy her own beauty parlor. Not me. I'm gonna travel. 'Keep movin' that's my motto. Would you rather work at Copper Penny at a dollareighty an hour, having every twobit cocksucker able to yell at you? I can make more money suc... doing what I do for five minutes than I can all week at another job.
You used to work at Copper Penny?
No.
You and I, Niki, have very different ideas about sex.
Why? Are you a sex fiend?
No.
Neither am I.
But it's all you do.
How important do you think sex is?
Not very.
We're just alike. You think sex is so unimportant you don't do it. I think sex is so unimportant I don't care who I do it with.
I don't see why I must justify myself to you. I don't care about the things you do. I don't care what's happening in New York or Los Angeles. I don't care about movies or TV. I don't care who's on Johnny Carson.
What do you care about?
I care about my daughter.
What's TJ?
Tijuana.
They were here?
Tod was. He was with Ratan.
What does that mean? What does he do?
He deals in pain.
Is Kristen safe?
You have to believe in something. What do they believe in  the Whatjamacillit church?
Christian Reformed. It's a Dutch Calvinist denomination.
Do they believe in reincarnation? I believe in reincarnation.
They believe in the 'TULIP.'
What the crap?
It's an anagram. It comes from the Canons of Dort. Every letter stands for a different belief. TULIP. Like  are you sure you're interested in this?
Yeah, yeah, go on.
T stands for Total depravity, that is, all men, through original sin, are totally evil and incapable of good. 'All my works are like filthy rags in the sight of the Lord.'
Shit.
Be that as it may. U is for Unconditional Election. God has chosen a certain number of people to be saved, The Elect, and He has chosen them from the beginning of time. L is for Limited Atonement. Only a limited number will be atoned, will go to Heaven.
Fuck.
I can stop if you want.
No, please go on.
I is for Irresistible Grace. God's grace cannot be resisted or denied. And P is for the Perseverance of the Saints. Once you are in Grace you cannot fall from the number of the elect. And that's the 'TULIP.'
Wait, wait. I'm trying to figure this out. This is like Rona Barrett. Before you become saved, God already knows who you are?
He has to. That's Predestination. If God is omniscient, if He knows everything  and He wouldn't be God if He didn't  then He must have known, even before the creation of the world, the names of those who would be saved.
So it's already worked out. The fix is in?
More or less.
Wow. Then why be good? Either you're saved or you ain't.
Out of gratitude for being chosen. That's where Grace comes in. God first chooses you, then allows you, by Grace, to choose Him of your own free will.
You really believe all that?
Yeah. Well, mostly.
I thought I was fucked up.
I'll admit it's confusing from the outside. You've got to see it from the inside.
If you see anything from the inside it makes sense. You ought to hear perverts talk. A guy once almost had me convinced to let his dachshund fuck me.
It's not quite the same thing.
It doesn't make any sense to me.
Tod'll meet you at the bookstore at Eddy and O'Farrell tomorrow noon. I told him you were a 'specialty' customer.
Why can't I meet him now?
Rot in hell, honey. He's busy now.
Where does he live.
Just a second. It's my ass I'm risking. You better do it my way. These fuckers don't mess around.
I must have been in more motel rooms this week than in the rest of my life. At least it feels that way.
I know what you mean. After a while they all look the same.
They are the same.
Do you live in a house back in wherever.
Grand Rapids? Of course.
On your own land?
Look, I really don't know your daughter but...
But what?
I wouldn't expect too much. I mean about her coming back. Once a girl gets into the life.
What makes you so sure?
You wife isn't dead is she?
Why do you say that?
Just a guess. She ain't dead though is she?
She left you right?
Yeah. She was the one called Joanne. How'd you find that out?
Just a guess. Did you have it good with your wife? You know, sex.
I don't blame you, Niki. Really I don't. It's this culture, where everything's based on sex, sold on sex... ...magazines, music, TV. It's destroying everything. Buy this 'cause of sex, use this 'cause of sex. Kids think it's normal. They think they're supposed to talk dirty, wear scanty clothes...
Don't get upset. I lied too. I don't make no five hundred dollars a week. Everything I make goes to Granville.
Granville?
My man. 'Pimp.' I split 'cause he don't treat me for shit. Thinks he's so cool 'cause he's black. I once tried to take my clothes but he says, 'You can't take 'em 'cause they're my clothes  I bought 'em.' Yeah, with my fucking money...
Look, Niki, this really isn't my business. I don't know anything about...
So I guess we're both fucked, huh? But at least you get to go to heaven. I don't get shit.
Did you find out where she was?
Tod gave me the slip. I have to find him again. Where does he live?
What happened?
Where is he?
I can't tell you that.
Listen, Niki. My daughter's been missing five months. I've gone through a lot to find out what's happened to her. I just saw a girl killed. I will not let Tod slip out of my hands. You have to tell me where he is.
But then you'll forget about me.
Where is he, Niki?
Is this all the display space we can get?
I tried to get more, but this is the limit. The De Vries line has the same area.
What do you think of this... ah, shade of blue, Mary.
I like it, Mr. Van Dorn.
Don't you think it's a little too... bright?
Not really. But if you want me to tone it down...
No, no. I wouldn't hire a display designer if I didn't trust her taste. Maybe we should bring in more of that shade. Perhaps a stripe across the back wall.
No, that would be much too overpowering.
Yeah, overpowering. That was the word I was looking for.
Mr. Van Dorn, I've worked on the color scheme for weeks. I think it's just right.
What's that shade of blue called?
Pavonine. It's the same tint as the stripe in the fabric.
Are you still going with that fella that teaches at Grand Valley?
Sam?
Yeah. He's a nice guy. Don't lose him. Maybe we could tone down this stripe a bit. It's a little...
Overpowering?
Yeah.
Okay, Mr. Van Dorn, I think we could knock that Pavonine blue a bit.
Are you sure it's all right?
Yes. I think it'll look better.
If you say so.
Kristen went on that convention today, didn't she?
Yeah. How did you know?
Hello. You want some information?
Yeah.
We offer...
Yeah, yeah...
...the disciplines: bondage, domination and humiliation.
I'm looking for Tod. Is he in?
I don't know no Tod.
What girls you got here?
My name is Hope. This is Faith. Charity's in back.
That's all you got, three girls?
Man, how many girls do you need?
I was told there was a real nice girl here named Joanne. Quite young.
That's Charity. She's out back. She'll be free in half hour.
I'd like to place a 'Personals' ad in the Free Press.
How many weeks?
Just one.
The rate is a dollar per line, a dollar and a half bold face.
'Film Producer'  that should be in caps, bold face.
Okay.
'Film Producer seeks young men, 18 to 25, for hardcore film. Prior film experience a must. Call Jake at Players Motel. 777 Vine. 4635671.
No.
We offer Female Wrestling, that is, nude body to body contact, with a girl of your choice in a private room. Twenty dollars a half hour, thirty dollars hour. Any other arrangements may be discussed in the privacy of your room. Tipping is permitted. We accept Bank Americard, Master Charge and American Express.
Yeah.
Do you want to take a session?
I just want to ask some questions.
You may do that in the privacy of your room.
Okay. I'll take a half hour.
Do you have any particular choice of girl?
You'll be fine.
You're still dressed?
Well, I want to...
Sit down. Make yourself comfortable. My name's Felice.
There's a girl I want to ask you about.
You're not Vice, are you? Do you work for the Los Angeles Police Department, or do you have any other affiliation with any law enforcement agency?
No, I don't.
I have to ask you that. If you were Vice you couldn't deny it. You ought to dress less square. You wouldn't get hassled so much. Here, let me help you get that tie off.
Well, actually I wanted to ask about this girl. I have her picture here.
Pull out your cock.
What?
Cops aren't allowed to do that either. A judge ruled that that was entrapment. Don't ask me why. I guess he figured the sight of a Vice Officer's dong would make a girl unable to stop herself.
No, Felice, I'm not a cop. In fact, right now I've got as little respect for the police as you do. I'm looking for a girl. A runaway. I need someone to help me.
Are you going to stiff me?
What do you mean?
Look, that twenty dollars you just paid, I don't get any of that. That goes to the guys that own this place. I get two bucks an hour, minus ten percent for a bail fund. I make all my money on tips.
You want a tip?
Sure. What do you want? Tips can be anywhere from thirty dollars to seventy dollars.
What do you mean?
What do you want to tip me for? Look, you got to spell it out. Whatever you want, just say it.
I'll give you a tip. Here's forty dollars.
Now, what do you want?
I said I just wanted to talk to you...
That's cool.
...about this woman. I'm trying to find her. Do you know her?
Look, I don't know anybody. I never seen her before.
I'm getting angry.
Wait a minute, that's going to cost you more than forty bucks.
I'm getting angry. I want some answers. Where's the guy who runs this place?
Who is it? That blond guy? Where is he? I'm going to talk to someone.
Wait?
Where is he? Where's the bastard that runs this shit hole?
Apparently your friend has gone into Mexico. A Border Guard responded to the APB. How does it feel to have the L.A.P.D. doing your work for you?
You're going to thank me for this. You know what the media's like. They love this kinda shit. If that guy goes off halfcocked and gets himself hurt, you're going to have so much bad publicity, you...
I heard you the first time. We had nothing to go on with this kid. Just a runaway. Do you really think he's in danger?
If he has anything to say about it, yeah. I've been asking a lot of questions and I don't like the answers I'm getting. He's made a lot of people nervous, including some poor faggot who thought he was going to be a movie star.
We aren't gonna arrest him for that...
Big threat. TV would ream you.
Keep me informed of what he's up to. You help me, I'll help you.
The boy your daughter was talking to didn't work at the park. We've interviewed everybody there.
But is she, has...
There's no evidence of any foul play at present. I hope she's just a runaway.
There's something wrong here. Kristen is not the type of girl to just up and leave.
I said I hope she's a runaway. Better that than she just disappears like so many others do. Sometimes they turn up years later, sometimes not. A lot of crimes go unreported, unknown. These are realities.
What are you doing?
Two officers have been assigned to the case. I can't keep them on indefinitely, but we'll go through every lead.
You're not exactly the type we're looking for.
You mean I'm black?
No, just not the type.
What do you mean, not the type? Don't you know who I am? I'm Big Dick Brown! I've been in more porno movies than you ever saw. I've worked with Harry Reems. I've worked with Johnny Wad. Not the type! I can come ten times a day. I can keep it hard two hours at a time. My cock is nine inches long.
I'm sorry, Mr. Brown. I'm sure you're very good, but at the moment, I've got nothing for you. If something comes up, we'll give you a call.
Shit! You just don't want to hire a nigger, that's all. I knew this was a scam. I shouldn'ta come.
Hello. My name is Beatrice. Have you been here before?
No.
What we offer here is nude body to body contact on a bed in a private room. It's twenty dollars a half hour, thirty dollars an hour. Anything else you desire may be discussed in the privacy of your room. Tips are allowed. We accept Bank Americard, Master Charge and American Express.
I don't really want... 'body to body contact.'
That you may discuss with the girl of your choice in the privacy of your room.
No. I don't think so.
You sure? We have regular sessions, too. Only twenty dollars?
We have this new club up here in Heaven.
Yes, we do.
We only have two members so far, but it's growing all the time.
We have enough for a shuffleboard team. In Heaven, shuffleboard is everything. Hitler plays shuffleboard.
Albert Einstein plays shuffleboard.
Mozart plays shuffleboard.
Lewis Carroll, who wrote Alice in Wonderland, plays shuffleboard.
Jack the Ripper plays shuffleboard.
Walt Disney, who gave us Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs, plays shuffleboard. Jesus Christ plays shuffleboard.
It was almost worth the tripto find out that Jesus Christ in Heaven was just another guy, playing shuffleboard. I like his sense of humor, thoughyou know? He's got a blueandgold warmup jacket he wears. You know what it says on the back? "Pontius Pilate Athletic Club." Most people don't get it. Most people think there really is a Pontius Pilate Athletic Club.
We're going to have jackets, aren't we?
You bet! "The Harold Ryan Fan Club." Pink, eh? With a yellow streak up the back. We got very good tailor shops up here. They'll make you any kind of uniform, any kind of sweatsuit you want. Judas Iscariothe's got this black jacket with a skull and crossbones over the heart. He walks around all hunched over, and he never looks anybody in the eye, and written on the back of his jacket are the words, "Go take a flying
Hi kid. Would you look what the car dragged in.
I'm glad you brought your vacuum cleaner.
Is that a fact?
That maid just quit. The place is a mess. You can start in the master bedroom.
You've got to fight from time to time.
Not true.
Or get eaten alive.
That's not true eitheror needn't be, unless we make it true.
Phooey.
Which we do. But we can stop doing that.
We simply stop doing thatdropping things on each other, eating each other alive.
Penelope! We're late!
The late Mrs. Harold Ryan.
I'm sick of this argument. I just have one more thing to say: If you elect a President, you support him, no matter what he does. That's the only way you can have a country!
It's the planet that's in ghastly trouble now and all our brothers and sisters thereon.
None of my relatives are Chinese Communists. Speak for yourself.
Chinese maniacs and Russian maniacs and American maniacs and French maniacs and British maniacs have turned this lovely, moist, nourishing bluegreen ball into a doomsday device. Let a radar set and a computer mistake a hawk or a meteor for a missile, and that's the end of mankind.
You can believe that if you want. I talk to guys like you, and I want to commit suicide. You get that weightlifting set I sent you?
Start with the smallest weights. Every week add a pound or two.
Maybe God has let everybody who ever lived be rebornso he or she can see how it ends. Even Pithecanthropus erectus and Australopithecus and Sinanthropus pekensis and the Neanderthalers are back on Earthto see how it ends. They're all on Times Squaremaking change for peepshows. Or recruiting Marines.
You ever hear the story about the boy who carried a calf around the barn every day?
He died of a massive rupture.
You think you're so funny. You're not even funny. Right? Right? You don't hurt yourself if you start out slow.
You're preparing him for a career in the slaughterhouses of Dubuque? Take care of your body, yes! But don't become a bender of horseshoes and railroad spikes. Don't become obsessed by your musculature. Any one of these poor, dead animals here was a thousand times the athlete you can ever hope to be. Their magic was in their muscles. Your magic is in your brains!
Kidkid
It's good. Let him go.
If he'd just come out for the Little League, the way I asked him, he'd find out we touch all the timeshove each other, slug each other, and just horse around. I'm going to go get him
Don't! Let him have all the privacy he wants. Let him grieve, let him rage. There has never been a funeral for his father.
If he'd just get into scouting, and camp out some, and see how everybody roughhouses around the fire
What a beautiful demonstration this is of the utter necessity of rites of passage.
I feel like I've been double crossed. If you'd just told me it was Harold's birthday
Minors aren't allowed at fights.
Then we'd stay home and eat venison or something, and look through the scrapbooks. I've got a friend who has a whole freezer full of striped bass and caribou meat. I'm going to bring that boy back.
"Happy Birthday, Wanda June!"
We can take off the "Wanda June" with a butter knife.
I am Dr. Norbert Woodlya physician, a healer. I find it disgusting and frightening that a killer should be a respected member of society. Gentleness must replace violence everywhere, or we are doomed.
Would you like to say something about killing, Colonel?
Herb Shuttle is taking me to a fight.
Take plenty of cigars.
We made the date three months ago.
I must take you to an emergency ward sometimeon a Saturday night. That's also fun. I came to see Selma, as a matter of fact.
She quit this afternoon.
The animals made her sneeze and cry too much.
I'm glad somebody finally cried. Every time I come in here and see all this unnecessary death, I want to cry. I don't cry, of course. Not manly, you know. Did she try antihistamines?
They made her so sleepy she couldn't work.
Throw out all this junk. Burn it! This room crawls with tropical disease.
"War is not healthy for children and other living things." How lovely.
No doubt Paul thinks it stinks.
Oh no! Wear a coat of cottonwear a coat of wool.
What?
Wear a coat of domestic mink. For the love of God, though, Penelope, don't lightheartedly advertise that the last of the jaguars died for you.
I never knew when to hold itor who to ask, or what to say.
Tonight's the night.
This is very good for us.
It is?
The wilder Paul is tonight, the calmer he'll be tomorrow.
As long as he keeps out of the park.
After this explosion, I think, he'll be able to accept the fact that his mother is going to marry again.
The only thing I ever told him about life was, "Keep out of the park after the sun goes down."
We've got to dump Shuttle. He brings his vacuum cleaner on dates?
That's the XKE.
The what?
It's an experimental model. He doesn't dare leave it in his car, for fear it will fall into the hands of competition.
What kind of a life is that?
He told me one time what the proudest moment of his life was. He made Eagle Scout when he was twentynine years old. Oh, Norbertpromise me that Paul has not gone into the park!
If you warned him against it as much as you say, it's almost a certainty.
No! Oh no! Three people murdered in there in the last six weeks! The police won't even go in there any more.
I wish Paul luck.
It's suicide!
I'd be dead by now if that were the case.
Meaning?
Every night, Penelope, for the past two years, I've made it a point to walk through the park at midnight.
Why would you do that?
To show myself how brave I am. The issue's in doubt, you knowsince I'm always for peace
I'm amazed.
Me, too. I know something not even the police knowwhat's in the park at midnight. Nothing. Or, when I'm in there, there's me in there. Fear and nobody and me.
And maybe Paul. What about the murderers? They're in there!
They didn't murder me.
Paul's only twelve years old.
He can make the sound of human footstepswhich is a terrifying sound.
We've got to rescue him.
If he is in the park, luck is all that can save him now, and there's plenty of that.
He's not your son.
No. But he's going to be. If he is in the park and he comes out safely on the other side, I can say to him, "You and I are the only men with balls enough to walk through the park at midnight." On that we can build.
It's a jungle out there.
That's been said before.
He'd go to a movie. I think that's what he'd do. If I were sure he was in a movie, I could stop worrying. We could have him paged.
You know each other?
We met here earlier this evening.
How neat. How keen.
Thank you. Thank you very much.
I believe in miracles now.
I'm taking her to the airport a few minutes from now. She's going to East St. Louisto visit an aunt.
Tell her to have a nice trip.
Thanks.
Get out of here.
It's really that bad?
You fool, you fool.
Ohlook at the poor, crucified violin, would you?
Everything's going to be beautiful.
You fake! You're no better than the dumbest general in the Pentagon. You're not going to beat Harold. You're not going to beat anybody. You're not going to stay here, eitheryammering and taunting until you're most gloriously killed. Go home!
Do it!
Goodbye.
Please
He's not anybody to tell somebody else what to do in a master bedroom.
I'll get ready, Herb. I didn't expect you this soon. Pleasewon't everybody be nice to everybody else while I'm gone?
I keep having this nightmarethat he catches us.
Doing what?
He'd kill me. He'd be right to kill me, toothe kind of guy he is.
Or was. We haven't done anything wrong, you know.
He'd assume we had.
That's something I suppose.
All through the day I'm so confident. That's why I'm such a good salesman, you know? I have confidence, and I look like I have confidence, and that gives other people confidence. People laugh sometimes when they find out I'm a vacuum cleaner salesman. They stop laughing, though, when they find out I made fortythree thousand dollars last year. I've got six other salesmen working under me, and what they all plug into is my confidence. That's what charges them up.
I'm glad.
I was captain of the wrestling team at Lehigh University.
I know.
If you want to wrestle, you got Lehigh. If you want to play tennis, you go to Vanderbilt.
I don't want to go to Vanderbilt.
You don't wrestle if you don't have supreme confidence, and I wrestled. But when I get with you, and I say to myself, "My Godhere I am with the wife of Harold Ryan, one of the great heroes of all time"
Yes?
Something happens to my confidence.
This conversation took place, incidentally, about three months before Harold was declared legally dead.
When Harold is definitely out of the picture, Penelope, when I don't have to worry about doing him wrong or you wrong or Paul wrong. I'm going to ask you to be my wife.
I'm touched.
That's when I'll get my confidence back.
I see.
If you'll pardon the expression, that's when you'll see the fur and feathers fly. Good night.
Good night.
Coming.
Women are always late. You'll find out.
Gentlemen! Is this right for a fight? It's been so long.
Beautiful! I've never seen that coat.
Seven jaguars' skins, I'm told. Harold shot every one. Shall we go?
What then?
We could have had some kind of birthday party for him. We could have taken Paul to the fight with us.
Did you see him?
Yeah.
Is he all right?
Far as I know.
Is he coming home?
He ditched me. He started running, and I started running, then he lost me in the park.
The park!
It's dark in there. PENELOPE And that's where he is!
I figure he ducked in one place and ducked out another.
You figure!
Then I saw this bakery store that was still open, so I bought a birthday cake.
A what?
For Harold. When Paul comes home, we can have some birthday cake.
How nice.
They had this cake somebody else hadn't picked up. It says, "Happy Birthday, Somebody Else."
Did you talk to Paul?
Before he started to run. He said his father carried a key to this apartment around his neckand someday we'd all hear the sound of that key in the door.
We've got to find him. I want you to show me exactly where you saw him last. And you stay here, Norbert, in case he comes home. That's all he saidthe thing about the key?
He said one other thing. It wasn't very nice.
What was it?
He told me to take a flying fuck at the moon.
What's the matter now?
We got a birthday cake, kid. Did you see the cake?
Possibly.
How long has this been going on?
A week. We were waiting for the right time to
I feel as though I had been made a perfect chump of.
I'm sorry.
Marry me instead.
Thank you, Herb. You're a wonderful man. You really are. Everybody respects you for what you've done for scouting and the Little League.
You're saying no.
I'm saying noand thank you.
I didn't make my move fast enough. That's it, isn't it? I was too respectful.
You were wonderful.
What's so wonderful if I lost the sale? You poor kid.
It's true.
Wellit was nice while it lasted. Thanks for the memories.
You and Harold are friends?
He's the most wonderful guy I ever met, Penelope. He's the most complicated guy I ever met. I can't believe it, but he's going to take me to Africa with him.
Peace, everybodyPaul, Penelope.
You're taking Mom out tonight?
You're going out?
We don't have a maid any more.
Oh?
Everything stays as it is!
A monument to a man who thought that what the world needed most was more rhinoceros meat.
My father!
I apologize. But you didn't know him, and neither did I. How's your asthma?
Don't worry about it.
How's the fungus around your thumbnail?
It's fine!
It's jungle rot! This room is making everybody sick! This is your family doctor speaking now. HereI brought you something else to hang on your wall, for the sake of variety.
I hate that thing.
Keeps fairies away!
It came yesterday. I haven't opened it yet.
Maybe it's supposed to end now. Maybe God wouldn't have it any other way.
I didn't get his name. A friend of your father?
He isn't any friend of Father.
He isn't?
He is my father.
No!
And this is my son, Paul. He was only four years old when his father disappeared.
He's coming back, Mom! He's the bravest, most wonderful man who ever lived.
I told you this was a simpleminded play.
Maybe he'll come back tonight! It's his birthday.
I know.
Stay home tonight!
Oh, Paul
You're married! You've already got a husband!
He's a ghost!
He's alive!
Not even Mutual of Omaha thinks so anymore.
If you have to go out with some guycan't he be more like Dad? Herb Shuttle and Norbert Woodly can't you do better than those two freaks?
Thank you, kind sir.
A vacuum cleaner salesman and a fairy doctor.
A what kind of doctor?
A fairya queer. Everybody in the building knows he's a queer.
That's an interesting piece of news.
You're the only woman he ever took out.
Not true.
Still lives with his mother.
You know she has no feet! You want him to abandon his mother, who has no husband, who has no money of her own, who has no feet?
How did she lose her feet?
In a railroad accident many years ago.
I was afraid to ask.
Norbert was just beginning practice. A real man would have sold her to a catfood company, I suppose. As far as that goes, J. Edgar Hoover still lives with his mother.
I didn't know that.
A lot of people don't.
J. Edgar Hoover plays sports.
I don't really know.
To only exercise Dr. Woodly ever gets is playing the violin and making that stupid peace sign. Peace. Peace. Peace, everybody.
I hate that thing.
It's beautiful.
Where will you be?
Anywhere but here. I'd just sit here and cry about the way my father's been forgotten.
Are you and Dr. Woodly engaged?
Who have you been talking to?
What difference does that make? Is Dr. Woodly going to be my father now?
Yes, he is.
Aaaaaaaaaaaaaah!
Is Norbert still here?
No.
Then who flushed the toilet?
Father's friend.
What's his name?
Don't know.
For Heaven's sakes!
Mom?
That man is your father.
What?
There stands the loins from which you've sprung.
I don't get it.
It is you, isn't it, Harold?
That's why I'm crying.
Dr. Woodly? You know who this is?
What are his symptoms?
Shivers and sweats and groans. His teeth chatter. What'll we do?
What does he say to do?
He can hardly talk.
Really?
It is an emergency, isn't it?
Yeah.
Then get him.
Okay.
She's my date tonight. What do you want her to dobring the poor old jaguars back to life with a bicycle pump? Bugger off! Ask Paul what he thinks. Your mother looks beautifulright? Kid? Doesn't your mother look nice? Paul?
I don't care what she wears.
Something's made you sore.
Don't worry about it.
You bet I'll worry about it. I said something wrong?
It's my father's birthdaythat's all. That's all. Who cares about that?
I had not the slightest inkling. Why didn't you say so?
She doesn't care! She's not married any more! She's going to have fun! I hope you have so much fun you can hardly stand it. Dr. WoodlyI hope you make up even better jokes about my father than the ones you've said so far.
Kidkid
And I wish you'd quit touching me all the time. It drives me nuts!
What's this?
Don't!
You sure misunderstood something and we'd better get it straight.
Explain it to them. I'm bugging out of here.
Don't touch me. Get out of the way.
Men can touch other men, and it doesn't mean a thing. Haven't you ever seen football players after they've won the Superbowl?
I worship your father. That stuffed alligator your mother gave methe one he shot? It's the proudest thing in my apartment.
Everybody talks about how rotten kids act. Grownups can be pretty rotten, too.
Thank God!
What a relief!
That goes double for me.
I don't want to live any more.
I feel like I want to yell my head offjust yell anything. Bullllllllllllllldickey!
I'll kill myself.
The wife of Harold Ryan is going to marry a pansy next? This is the end of Western Civilization as far as I'm concerned. You must be crazy as a fruitcake.
Don't touch me.
Wouldn't you rather have your mother marry me than him?
No.
All my dreams have suddenly collapsed. We did have a lot of laughs together, Penelope.
Aha! Hello! You're Mildred, right?
I heard you were looking for me.
You were Harold Ryan's third wife. Right?
Yes.
You want to join the Harold Ryan Fan Club? Wear a pink jacket with a yellow streak up the back?
Do I have to? Who's the little girl?
Because he was cruel?
Premature ejaculation.
Ach soooooooooo. MILDRED No grown woman is a fan of premature ejaculation. Harold would come home trumpeting and roaring. He would the kick the furniture with his boots, spit into corners and the fireplace. He would make me presents of stuffed fish and helmets with holes in them. He would tell me that he had now earned the reward that only a woman could give him, and he'd tear off my clothes. He would carry me into the bedroom, telling me to scream and kick my feet. That was very important to him. I did it. I tried to be a good wife. He told me to imagine a herd of stampeding water buffalo. I couldn't do that, but I pretended I did. It was all overten seconds after he'd said the word "buffalo." Then he'd zip up his pants, and go outside, and tell true war stories to the little kids. Any little kids.
That is sad.
Is it? I have this theory about why men kill each other and break things.
Ja?
Never mind. It's a dumb theory. I was going to say it was all sexual..but everything is sexual...but alcohol. Peace.
Mr. Ryan just borrowed my birthday cake. I don't really know him.
Thought you were another wife, maybe.
I'm only ten years old.
That's what he wanteda tenyear old wife. He'd come home from a war or a safari, and he'd wind up talking to the little kids.
Won't you please join our club? Please?
HoneyAlcoholics Anonymous takes all the time I've gotand Harold Ryan is an individual I would rather forget. He drove me to drink. He drove his first two wives to drink.
JesusI dunno. You know. What the heck. Who knows?
Colonel Harper, retired now, dropped an atom bomb on Nagasaki during the Second World War, killing seventyfour thousand people in a flash.
I dunno, boy.
You don't know?
It was a bitch.
Thank you. You can leave now. We'll begin.
And you went home unannounced, too?
I dunno. Yeah! Yeah! Yeah! I did.
Alice got married again.
She did?
You didn't even find that out?
There was so much going on.
She married an accountant named Stanley Kestenbaum.
So that's it! "Kestenbaum, Kestenbaum." Everybody was yelling "Kestenbaum, Kestenbaum." I thought it was some foreign language.
Dead!
Jesus.
Alice is dead?
No, noshit no. Excuse me, Penelope.
For what?
For saying "shit." Or is that okay now?
Who's dead?
My motherinlaw. Fire engines, pulmotors, doctors, cops, coroners
What happened?
WellI walked up to the front door. I was still alive. Big surprise. I rang the doorbell, and old Mrs. Wheeler answered. She had her Goddamn knitting. I said, "Guess who?" She conked right out.
How horrible.
Yeahcripes. I never did get any sense out of Alice. She found me holding up the old lady, dead as a mackerel. It was a bitch. You knowmaybe Mrs. Wheeler was going to die then and there anyway, even if I'd been the paper boy. Maybe not. I dunno, boy. That's civilian life for you. Who knows what kills anybody?
And you, Colonel? Let me guess: You don't know.
I dunno.
So long, you guys.
What will you do, Colonel?
I dunno. Marry the first whore who's nice to me, I guess. Get a job in a motorcycle shop. So long, you guys.
Ooops.
Ooops.
Can Iuhhelp you gentlemen?
Gentlementhat's nice.
You startled me.
The door ws unlocked. Is it always unlocked?
It's always locked.
But here you are inside, aren't you?
You'reyou're old friends of Harold Ryan?
We tried to be. We tried to be.
He's dead, you know.
Dead! Such a final word. Dead! Did you hear that?
Hello? Ohhello, Mother.
Hello, Mother.
...Who?... Did she say how far apart the pains were?... When was that?... Oh dear.
Oh dear.
Call her backtell her to head for the hospital. Tell the hospital to expect her. I'll leave right now.
LookI'm sorryI have to go.
We'll miss you so.
Lookthis isn't my apartment, and there isn't anybody else here. Mrs. Ryan won't be home for a while.
Oh, oh, ohI thought it was your apartment. You seemed at home here.
I'm a neighbor. I have the apartment across the hall. I have to go to the hospital now. An emergency.
I meanI can't leave you here. You'll have to go. I'll tell Mrs. Ryan you were here. You can come back later.
Ahhthen she's still alive.
She's fine. Please
And still Mrs. Harold Ryan?
Will you please go? An emergency!
She still has just the one child the boy?
Yes! Yes! The boy! One boy!
And what, exactly, is your relationship to Mrs. Ryan?
Neighbor! Doctor! I live across the hall.
And you come into Mrs. Ryan's apartment as often as you please, looking into various health matters?
Yes! Please! You've got to get out right now!
Just her neighbor and doctor? That's all?
And her fianc!
And her fianc! How nice. I hope you'll be very happyor is that what one says to the woman?
I've got to run!
You wish the woman good luck, and you tell the man how fortunate he is. That's how it goes.
I've literally got to run!
I won't try to keep up with you. I'm not as fast on my feet as I once was.
Safe and sound, I see. Ohyou came back.
I came back.
How was the emergency, Doctor? Profitable, I hope.
A policeman delivered the baby in a taxicab.
Tough luck. You'll have to split the fee.
Areare you crying, Penelope?
She's crying because she's so happy.
I feel the same way. What next?
What next? You leave promptly, of course. There is no question as to whose home this is
None.
Whose son this is, whose wife that is. A fianc is the most ridiculous appurtenance this household could have at this time. Good night.
Good night.
Ah! You're ambulatory!
What a brilliant diagnosis!
Well nowwhat seems to be the trouble with the patient today? A touch of malaria, perhaps?
I know malaria. Malaria isn't caused by the bites of bats.
You've been bitten by bats?
Colonel Harper and I once shared a treetop with a family of bats. There was a flash flood. There were piranha fish in the water. That's how Colonel Harper lost his little toe.
You have chills?
Chills, fevers, sweats. You can describe it and name it after yourself: "the Woodly galloping crud."
You can also describe its cure. I'm eating its cure.
I was going to ask.
Pacqualinincheewa root.
Would you say that again?
Pacqualinincheewa root. Means "cougar fang." Cures anything but a yellow streak down the back.
I've never heard of it.
Congratulations. By crossing twentyeight feet of cockroach infested carpet, you've become the third white man ever to hear of it.
Are you've seen it work cures?
Hundreds.
Wasn't that sweet of me?
More and more we find ourselves laying aside false pride and looking into the pharmacopoeias of primitive people. Curare, ephedrinewe've found some amazing things.
We have, have we?
That's an editorial we, of course. I haven't turned up anything personally.
Everything about you is the editorial we. Take that away from you, and you'd disappear.
Good Lord.
I can just hear the editorial wee weeweeing when Looseleaf and I start flying in pacqualinincheewa root. I can hear the Alicesitby thefires now: "We discovered it in the Amazon Rain Forest. Now we cure you with it. Now we lower our eyes with becoming modesty as we receive heartfelt thanks."
I thought she was a widow.
You were wrong, you quack!
I'm going to have to report you to the Department of Health.
What for?
Quarantine, possibly. You may be suffering from a loathsome disease which the American people could do without. Goodbye.
It died for your sins.
This little corpse is intended as a lesson?
There's a certain amount of information there.
Lest we forget how cruel you are.
This is man to man.
It's healer to killer. Is that the same thing?
What brought you back?
The same hairy, humorless old gods who move you from hither to yon. "Honor, " if you like.
He's a champion after all. WOODLY Of the corpses and cripples you create for our instructionwhen all we can learn from them is this: how cruel you are.
There's going to be no bloodshed here. I know how he'll fightthe only way he can fight: with words. The truth. Am I correct?
Yes.
I can defeat him with anything from flavored toothpicks to siege howitzers. But he got it into his little head that he could come here and demolish Harold Ryan with words. The truth! Correct?
Correct.
What an hallucination! Oh, dear, dear, dear, dear. Oh dearie me.
You haven't heard me yet.
You intend to crack my eardrums with your voice? Will I bleed from my every orifice? Who will clean up this awful mess?
We'll find out now, won't we?
You're a filthy, rotten bastard.
Oooooo. That hurt.
You're oldso old.
Now who's being cruel?
A living fossil! Like the cockroaches and the horseshoe crabs.
We do survive, don't we? You're going to have to apologize, of course, for calling me a bastard. That's a matter of formnot allowing you or anybody to call me a bastard. No rush about that. Just remember to apologize sometime soon.
You're a son of a bitch.
Yeswelluhthat's another one of those statements which more or less automatically requires an apology. Whenever you feel like it. It's sort of like turning off an alarm clock that's ringing loudly. Your apology turns off the alarm.
I haven't told you, Harold, how comical I think you are.
Comical?
Hands and knees, you say?
And terror, if you don't mind.
You're in one hell of a jam. You realize that?
I'm high as a kite.
Glands. You're supposed to be happy when you die. Call me comical again.
You're a clown. You're a clown who killsbut you're a clown.
I love you! Have a cigar!
Evolution has made you a clown with a cigar. Simple butchers like you are obsolete!
I'm to be left behindin primordial ooze?
If you're at home in the ooze, and nowhere else.
This is going to become very physical. Are you prepared for that?
You're not such a creature of the ooze that you'd hurt an unarmed man.
I'm an honorable clown?
King Arthur.
You hope.
In any event, I will not beg for mercy.
No quarter asked. No quarter given.
Don't you laugh even inwardly at the heroic balderdash you spew?
Cut me open. Find out.
I've struck my blow.
With spittle?
I've poisoned you. HAROLD Lucretia Borgia? Something I drank or touched? You refused a cigar. That's it! Potassium cyanide in the humidor! Treacherous lover of peace!
I put a poisoned thought in your head. Even now that poison is seeping into every lobe of your mind. It's saying, "Obsolete, obsolete, obsolete," and, "Clown, clown, clown."
Poison.
You have a very good mind, or I wouldn't have come back. That mind is now asking itself, cleverly and fairly, "Is Harold Ryan really a clown?" And the answer is, "Yes."
II really must congratulate you. Something is happening in there.
You can never take yourself seriously again! Look at all the creatures you've protected us from! Did you shoot them on the elevator, as they were on their way up here to eat us alive?
No. WOODLY The magic root you gave meI had it analyzed. It was discovered by a Harvard botanist in 1893! He explored your famous jungle for five years, armed with nothing but kindness, a talent for languages, and a pocketknife.
I see.
You aren't going to hurt me. You aren't going to hurt anybody any more. Any violent gesture will seem ridiculousto yourself!
Don Quixote.
My violin is avenged!
Something seems to have happened to my selfrespect.
And the hell with it. It was so tragically irrelevant, so preposterously misinformed.
The new hero is you.
I hate crowds, and I have no charisma
You're too modest.
But the new hero will be a man of science and of peacelike me. He'll disarm you, of course. No more guns, no more guns.
Was I ever of use?
Never. For when you began to kill for the fun of it, you became the chief source of agony of mankind.
Here. Finish the job.
I'm utterly satisfied.
You're making a mistake. Obsolete old carnivores like me are most dangerous when wounded. You've wounded me.
More clowning! Don't you see?
We never quit fighting until we're dead.
You'd be killing a friend. Don't you know how much I like you?
I'm going to shoot you now.
No!
My selfrespect is goneand my soldier's honor with it. It is now very easy for me to shoot an unarmed man.
New dignity can be yoursas a merciful man. You can change!
Like the sabertoothed tiger.
Oh Godyou're really going to kill me. HAROLD It won't hurt as much as the sting of a bumblebee. Heaven is very much like Paradise, they say. You'll like it there.
Can I beg for mercyon my knees?
If you want to be found that way.
What is this thing that kills me?
Man, as man was meant to bea vengeful ape who murders. He will soon be extinct. It's time, it's time.
Don't shoot.
I've enjoyed being man.
No. No.
Get up.
No.
Have it your way. We'd both be better off dead now.
Can't do it.
Thank God. HAROLD Crawl home.
Thank youfor my life.
It's trash now, like mine.
New lives begin!
Somewhere in this city. Not here, not here. Tell Penelope I loved herin my clownish way. And Paul. Tell him to be a healer, by all means.
What are you going to do?
Use the sanitary facilities, if I may.
Leave the rifle here.
I'll put it in Paul's room, where it belongs.
Give me your word of honor that that's all you're going to do.
For what it's worth now, Harold Ryan, the clown, gives his sacred word.
How do you do. My name is Penelope Ryan. This is a simpleminded play about men who enjoy killingand those who don't.
I am Harold Ryan, her husband. I have killed perhaps two hundred men in wars of various sortsas a professional soldier. I have killed thousands of other animals as wellfor sport.
"Hamburger Heaven."
Heaven.
Can I help you, sir?
I think so, daughter. How old are you?
Eighteen and a half.
A springbok, an oryx, a gemsboka gazelle.
Sir?
Raw hamburger, pleaseand a whole onion. I want to eat the onion like an apple. Do you understand?
Yes, sir. It was a very unusual automobile. It was a Cadillac, but it had water buffalo horns where the bumpers should be. And what to drink?
What time do you get off work, my child?
I'm sorry, sir, I'm engaged to be married. My boyfriend would be mad if I went out with another man.
Did you ever daydream that you would one day meet a friendly millionaire?
I'm engaged.
DaughterI love you very much.
You don't even know me.
You are woman. I know woman well.
This is crazy.
Destiny often seems that way. You're going to marry me.
What do you do for a living?
My parents died in an automobile accident when I was sixteen years old. They left me a brewery and a baseball teamand other things. I live for a living. I've just come back from Kenyain Africa. I've been hunting Mau Mau there.
Some kind of animal?
The pelt is black. It's a kind of man.
How do you do?
How do you do, Mrs. Ryan? I'd heard you were beautiful, and so you are. Am I intruding here?
Not at all.
I couldn't help overhearing that you were about to get married again.
What's the matter?
Give us time.
Like hugging a lamp post.
Give us time, Haroldto adjust to your being alive.
You were well adjusted to my being dead?
We adjust to what there is to adjust to. Perhaps Paul, being young, can adjust to joy or grief immediately. I hope he can. I will take a little longer. I'll be as quick as I can.
What sort of time period do you have in mind? Half an hour? An hour?
I don't know. This is a new disease to me.
Disease?
Situation.
This reunion isn't what I imagined it would be.
A telegrama phone call might have helped.
Seemed the most honest way to begin life together againnatural, unrehearsed.
Wellenjoy the natural, honest, unrehearsed resultsurgical shock.
You feel that you're behaving as a woman should?
Every fuse in my nervous system has been blown.
Bluh.
You'd better get Dr. Woodly.
What's that all about?
We thought a doctor might help.
Your old beau?
We thought it was an emergency.
I don't want that chancre mechanic in here.
He's a very decent man, Harold.
We all are.
Shouldn't you lie down?
When I'm dead or fucking.
Paul said you were awfully sick.
I was, I was. It never lasts long.
You know what I want? I want you both to be friends. I know you both, respect you both. You should be friends.
Nothing would please me more.
Thank God!
I'm so glad you like each other. I was so scared, so scared.
Have some.
Harold!
I could carve a better man out of a banana!
Please
You and your damned bedside manner and your damned little black bag full of miracles. You know who filled that bag for you? Not Alicesitbythefires like yourself. Men with guts filled it, by Godmen with guts enough to pay the price for miraclessuffering, ingratitude, loneliness, death
He doesn't deserve this! You don't know him. It isn't fair!
He thought he could take my place. It is now my privilege to give an unambiguous account of why I don't think he's man enough to do that.
Awful. I can't tell you how sorry I am.
Say hello to your mother.
Do say hello to your mother.
Now that's what I call fun.
Ghastly, cruel, unnecessary.
You'll get so you enjoy twitting weaklings again. You used to eat it up.
I did?
We were one hell of a pairand we'll be one again. What we need is a honeymoon. Let's start right now.
A trip, you mean?
I had a trip. We'll honeymoon here. Go out and play.
He hasn't had breakfast yet.
Buy yourself breakfast. There we go.
Honeymoon! Honeymoon! Say it: Honeymoon!
It's soso stark.
You used to like it stark!
Justbangwe have a honeymoon.
I'm not going to strike you. I am going to be as gentle as pieas lemon meringue pie. You mustn't run away now. This is your loving husband approaching. I'm your husband. Society approves!
Nowturn around, if you would.
Turn around?
I'm not about to introduce to you a jungle novelty. What I have in mind is massagea perfectly decent massage. Turn around, turn around.
I'm going to touch your shoulders very gently now. You mustn't scream. So tense, so tense.
You shouldn't have talked to Norbert that way.
You're thinking with your brain instead of your body. That's why you're so tense! Forget Norbert. Relax. It's body time.
I have a brain.
We all do. But now it's body time. Relax. Ideally, the body of a woman should feel like a hot water bottle filled with Devonshire cream. You feel like a paper bag crammed with curtain rods. Think of your muscles one by one. Let them go slack. Relax. Let the brain go blank. Relax. That's the idea that's my girl. Now the small of the back. Let those knots over those kidneys unsnarl.
I have some change!
Ram it up your ass!
Breakfast?
Scrambled eggs, kippered herring, fried potatoesand a whole onion. I want to eat the onion like an apple. Do you understand?
And lots of orange juiceoceans of orange juice.
Mrs. Wheeler is dead.
All rightbring me a side order of Mrs. Wheeler. Oh, hellsit down, Colonel. Penelope will bring you some chow.
That is the most heartless statement I ever heard pass between human lips.
Which one?
"Bring me a side order of Mrs. Wheeler."
She's up in Heaven now. She didn't hear. She is experiencing nothing but pure happiness. There's nothing nicer than that. Chow! Harold Ryan wants chow!
What a honeymoon.
Honeymoon temporarily canceled. The boy should still go out and exercise. I have the impression he never gets any exercise. He simply bloats himself with Fig Newtons and bakes his brains over steam radiators.
You're wrong.
Then let me see him go out and get some exercise. Right now!
Chow, chow, chow! God damn it nutriment!
We're all going to have to go out for breakfast. The cook quit yesterday.
You're a woman, aren't you?
Cook, by God! Cook! You're the nigger now.
People don't use that word any more.
Don't lecture me on race relations. I don't have a molecule of prejudice. I've been in battle with every kind of man there is. I've been in bed with every kind of woman there isfrom a Laplander to a Tierra del Fuegian. If I'd ever been to the South Pole, there'd be a hell of a lot of penguins who looked like me. Cook!
You leave me soso without without dignity.
People now have dignity when frying eggs?
They don't have to feel like slaves.
Then go nowand fry with dignity sunnyside up.
I should have torn that door off its hinges. Should have scrogged her ears off. Should have broken the bed. What do you want? Well?
II was wonderingis there anything you shouldn't eatbecause of jungle fever?
I could eat a raw baby crocodile. The way to get your wife back is in bed. Do such a job on her that she'll be lucky if she can crawl around on all fours. We're starving. Do you mind?
Let me guessbreakfast is served?
No.
What then?
I do not wish to be scroggedever. I never heard that word, but when I heard it, I knew it was one thing I never wanted to have happen to me.
That's what you're supposed to say.
This is not a coy deception. I do not want to be scrogged. I want love. I want tenderness.
You don't know you want. That's the way God built you!
I will not be scrogged. I remember one time I saw you wrench a hook from the throat of a fish with a pair of pliers, and you promised me that the fish couldn't feel.
It couldn't!
I'd like to have the expert opinion of the fishalong with yours.
Fish can't feel.
Well, I can. Some injuries, spiritual or physical, can be excruciating to me. I'm not a silly carhop any more. Maybe you're right about fish. When I was a carhop, I didn't feel much more than a fish would. But I've been sensitized. I have ideas nowand solid information. I know a lot more nowand a lot of it has to do with you.
Such as?...
The whole concept of heroismand its sexual roots.
Tell me about its sexual roots.
It's complicated and I don't want to go into it now, because it's bound to sound insultingeven though nobody means for anybody to be insulted. It's just the truth.
I like the truth. I wouldn't be alive today if I weren't one of the biggest fans truth ever had.
Wellpart of it is that heroes basically hate home and never stay there very long, and make awful messes while they're there.
Go on.
And they have very mixed feelings about women. They hate them in a way. One reason they like war so much is that they can capture enemy women and not have to make love to them slowly and gently. They can scrog them, as you say for revenge.
You learned this in some college course?
I learned a lot of things in college. Actuallyit was Norbert who told me that.
The doctor.
Yes.
And what is his most cherished possession?
His most cherished possession? His violin, I guess.
And he keeps it in his apartment?
Yes.
And no one's there now?
I don't think so.
That's too bad. I would rather have him at hometo see what I'm going to do.
What are you going to do?
He did his best to destroy my most precious possession, which is the high opinion women have of me. I'm now going to even that score. I'm going to break in his door and I'm going to smash his violin.
No you're not!
Why not?
Because if you doI'll leave you. HAROLD Goodbye.
I came for my clothes.
Sneaking in the back door.
I rang. It seemed like the proper door for a servile, worthless organism to use.
Your clothes are at the city dump by now. Perhaps you can get a map from the Department of Sanitation.
I came for Paul as well.
If he wants to go.
You took him to the funeral, I hear.
He'd never seen a corpse. He's seen a dozen now.
A dozen?
It's a big and busy funeral home.
Did you like it, dear?
It isn't a matter of liking. It's a matter of getting used to death as a perfectly natural thing. Would you mind leaving? No woman ever walks out on Harold Ryan, and then comes backfor anything.
Unless she has nerve.
More nerve than the doctor, I must admit. He hasn't been home for two days. Has he suddenly lost interest in sleep and color televisionand the violin?
He knows you shattered his violin.
I'm dying to hear of his reaction. The thrill of smashing something isn't in the smashing, but in the owner's reactions.
He cried.
About a broomstick and a cigar boxand the attenuated intestines of an alley cat.
Two hundred years old.
He feels awful losswhich was precisely my intention.
He had hoped that someone would be playing it stilltwo hundred years from now.
Hope.
Things.
You feel I've done a dreadful thingleaving him?
Wellwhat have we here? A family.
Almost a Christmas scene.
Goodbye, goodbye, goodbye.
Just one favor.
Money? There's plenty of that. Mildred got the brewery. You'll probably get the baseball team.
I want you to tell me that you loved me once.
Testimonials of that sort areare beyond my range. I don't do them well. That's a failing, I know.
I see.
See how you've upset him. He was so merry and hale before you came home.
How unhappy he's going to bealone in his room.
He'll play with his rifle, I expect. That will cheer him up.
Rifle?
I bought him a twentytwo yesterdayon the way home from Hamburger Heaven. And where is the good doctor? Have you two feathered a love nest somewhere?
He's in East St. Louis with his mothervisiting an aunt.
Last I heard, his mother was going alone.
He's afraid of you, Harold. He knew you'd want to fight him. He doesn't know anything about fighting. He hates pain.
And you, a supposedly healthy woman, do not detest him for his cowardice?
It seems highly intelligent to me.
What kind of a country has this become? The men wear beads and refuse to fightand the woman adore them. America's days of greatness are over. It has drunk the blue soup.
Blue soup?
An Indian narcotic we were forced to drink. It put us in a hazea honeycolored haze which was lavender around the edge. We laughed, we sang, we snoozed. When a bird called, we answered back. Every living thing was our brother or our sister, we thought. Looseleaf stepped on a cockroach six inches long, and we cried. We had a funeral that went on for five daysfor the cockroach! I sang "Oh Promise Me." Can you imagine? Where the hell did I ever learn the words to "Oh Promise Me"? Looseleaf delivered a lecture on maintenance procedures for the hydraulic system of a B36. All the time we were drinking more blue soup, more blue soup! Never stopped drinking blue soup. Blue soup all the time. We'd go out after food in that honeycolored haze, and everything that was edible had a penumbra of lavender.
Sounds quite beautiful.
Beautiful, you say? It wasn't life, it wasn't deathit wasn't anything! Beautiful? Seven years gone like that, like that! Seven years of silliness and random dreams! Seven years of nothingness, when there could have been so much!
Like what?
Action! Interaction! Give and take! Challenge and response!
He's a child!
With an iron penis three feet long. Load it, boy.
You're begging him to kill you?
If he thinks he's man enough.
That's really what you want. You become furious when people won't make you dead.
I'm teaching my son to be a man.
So he can kill you. You hate your own life that much. You beg for a hero to kill you.
I plan to live one hundred years!
No you don't.
If that's the casewhat's to prevent my killing myself?
Honor, I suppose.
What a handsome word.
But it's all balled up in your head with death. The highest honor is death. When you talk of these animals, one by one, you don't just talk of killing them. You honored them with death. Haroldit is not honor to be killed.
If you've lived a good life, fought well
It's still just death, the absence of lifeno honor at all. It's worse than the blue soup by far that nothingness. To you, though, it's the honor that crowns them all.
May I continue with the rearing of my son? Load that gun!
The old heroes are going to have to get used to this, Haroldthe new heroes who refuse to fight. They're trying to save the planet. There's no time for battle, no point to battle anymore.
I feel mocked, insulted, with no sort of satisfaction in prospect. We don't have to fight with steel. I can fight with words. I'm not an inarticulate ape, you know, who grabs a rock for want of a vocabulary. Call him up in East St. Louis, Penelope. Tell him to come here.
No.
No.
And my son, the only son of Harold Ryanhe's going to grow up to be a vanisher, too?
I don't know. I hope he never hunts. I hope he never kills another human being.
You hope this, too?
I'm going to call the police.
Don't!
This is suicide. Go get the police.
Stop!
No, we won't. No matter how it begins, it will end in death. Because it always does. Isn't that always how it ends, Haroldin death?
There has to be a threat of some sort, nobility of some sort, glamour of some sort, sport of some sort. These elements are lacking.
I'm turning off the alarm. I'm turning off everything.
Ah! The lady is armed.
I want you to get out of here, Norbert. HaroldI want you to sit down in the chair, and not lift a finger until Norbert is gone.
Whoever has the gun, you see, gets to tell everybody else exactly what to do. It's the American way.
I mean it!
Then you'd better fix your bayonet, because there aren't any bullets in the gun.
Where's the bullet?
Help your mother find the bullet.
There it is. Give it to me.
How do I load?
Load it for her.
All right! Am I exceedingly dangerous now?
The National Safety Council would be appalled.
Then listen to me. You're both disgustingwith your pride, your pride. I hate you for coming herelike a federal marshal in a western film. I loved you when you stayed away. But here you are nowhigh noon in the Superbowl! You fool, you fool.
She's right, Norbertgo home. WOODLY I haven't said all I have to say.
Out!
Give me that Goddamn thing! Now get out of here, or I might kill you. Who knows?
You've killed women?
Seventeen of themeleven by accident. March! Move! You, too!
Norbertyou come, too. Let him go, Harold. Let him go.
Of course he can goif he'll just go down on his hands and knees for a momentand promise me that he does not find me comical in the least degree.
Do it, Norbert.
Anybody home?
As a matter of fact
Sir?
As a matter of factI am home.
Hello.
Hello.
Are you
You were about to ask a question?
Are youdo you
Ask it!
Do you know who Wanda June is?
Life has denied me that thrill.
Do you mind if I ask who you are?
Mind? God, yes, I mind. I'm your father's friend. A man claiming to be the family physician let me in a while ago.
Dr. Woodly.
Dr. Woodly. I should make a little list.
Is anybody besides you here now?
The doctor was called away on an emergency. I think it was birth.
Where's Mom?
You don't know where your mother is? Does she put on a short skirt and go drinking all night?
She went to the fight with Herb Shuttle, I guess.
You think you could find me a pencil and paper?
I'll see.
And you've been roaming the streets while your mother is Godknowswhere?
I was going to a funny movie, but I changed my mind. If you're depressed, laughing doesn't help much. When did you know my father?
Man and boy.
Everybody says he was so brave.
Even this"Herb Shuttle", you said?
He worships Father.
Ah! And what sort of man is this worshiper?
He's a vacuum cleaner salesman.
I see. And he came into the apartment one day, to demonstrate his wares, and your mother, as it happened, was charmingly en deshabille
She met him at college.
College!
They were in the same creative writing class.
College?
She has a master's degree in English literature.
What a pity! Educating a beautiful woman is like pouring honey into a fine Swiss watch. Everything stops. And the doctor? He worships your father, too?
He insults him all the time.
Excellent!
What's good about that?
It makes life spicy.
He doesn't do it in front of me, but he does it with Mother. You know what he called Father one time?
No.
"Harold, the Patron Saint of Taxidermy."
What does he doof an athletic nature?
Nothing. He plays a violin in a doctors' quartet.
Aha! He has a brilliant military record, I'm sure.
He was a stretcherbearer in the Korean War. Were you in a war with Father?
Big ones, little ones, teenyweeny onesjust and otherwise.
Tell me some true stories about Dad.
"Dad?" Dad. The boy wants tales of derringdo. Name a country.
England?
Oh hell.
Dad was never in England?
Behind a desk for a little while. A desk! They had him planning air raids. A city can't flee like a coward or fight like a man, and the choice between fleeing and fighting was at the core of the life of Harold Ryan. There was only one thing he enjoyed more than watching someone make that choice, and that was making the choice himself. Ask about Spain, where he was the youngest soldier in the Abraham Lincoln Brigade. He was a famous sniper. They called him "La Picadura""the sting."
"The sting."
As in "Death, where is thy sting?" He killed at least fifty men, wounded hundreds more.
"The sting."
Ask about the time he and I were parachuted into Yugoslavia to join a guerrilla bandin the war against the Nazis.
Tell me that.
I saw your father fight Major Siegfried von Konigswald, the Beast of Yugoslavia, hand to hand.
Tell me that! Tell me that!
Hid by dayfought by night. At sunset one day, your father and I, peering through field glasses, saw a black Mercedes draw up to a village inn. It was escorted by two motorcyclists and an armored car. Out of the Mercedes stepped one of the most hateful men in all of historythe Beast of Yugoslavia.
Wow.
We blacked our hands and faces. At midnight we crept out of the forest and into the village. The name of the village was Mhravitch. Remember that name!
Mhravitch.
We came up behind a sentry, and your father slit his throat before he could utter a sound.
Uck.
Don't care for cold steel? A knife is worse than a bullet?
I don't know.
The story gets hairier. Should I stop?
Go on.
We caught another Kraut alone in a back lane. Your father choked him to death with a length of piano wire. Your father was quite a virtuoso with piano wire. That's nicer than a knife, isn't itas long as you don't look at the face afterwards. The face turns a curious shade of avocado. I must ask the doctor why that is. At any rate, we stole into the back of the inn, and, with the permission of the management, we poisoned the wine of six Krauts who were carousing there.
Where did you get the poison?
We carried cyanide capsules. We were supposed to swallow them in case we were captured. It was your father's opinion that the Krauts needed them more than we did at the time.
And one of them was the Beast of Yugoslavia? HAROLD The Beast was upstairs, and he came running downstairs, for his men were making loud farewells and last wills and testamentseditorializing about the hospitality they had received. And your father said to him in perfect German, which he had learned in the Spanish Civil War, "Major, something tragic seems to have happened to your bodyguard. I am Harold Ryan, of the United States of America. You, I believe, are the Beast of Yugoslavia."
Mhravitch. Remember that name.
Mhravitch.
The name will live forever. It was there that Harold Ryan slew the Beast of Yugoslavia. Mhravitch.
When I grow up, I'm going to go to Mhravitch.
It's rather a disappointment these days. It isn't there any more.
Sir?
The Germans shot everybody who lived there, then leveled it, plowed it, planted turnips and cabbages in the fertile ground. They wished revenge for the slaying of the Beast of Yugoslavia. To their twisted way of thinking, your father had butchered an Eagle Scout. Play lots of contact sports?
I wanted to go out for football, but Mom was afraid I'd get hurt.
You're supposed to get hurt!
Dr. Woodly says he's seen hundreds of children permanently injured by football. He says that when there's a war, everybody goes but football players.
Does it bother you to have your mother engaged to a man like that?
They're not engaged.
He seems to think they are. He told me that were.
Oh no, no, no, no, no. It can't be. How embarrassing.
You're a very good boy to respond that way.
No, no, no, no, no.
I'd like to use the sanitary facilities, if I may.
Go ahead. No, no, no, no.
Yes, wife, it is. Come here, boy. Your father is home.
Sir?
Wants to fix up her makeup, no doubt.
Is Looseleaf Harper alive?
Alive and hale. He's throwing a little surprise party for his own family. Is your mother often this unstable? Penelope!
She's a real heavy sleeper sometimes.
Why don't you go to bedson.
I can't take my eyes off you.
Tomorrow's another day. PAUL You know what my English literature teacher said about you?
Can't it keep till morning?
She said you were legendary. I wrote a theme about you, and she said, "Your father is a legendary hero out of the Golden Age of Heroes."
That's nice. You thank her for me. Go to bed and get lots of sleep, and then you thank her in the morning.
Tomorrow's Saturday. Anyway, she's dead.
Penelope!
She was killed in the park two months agoin the daytime.
Penelope!
She was on her way home from a meeting of the African Violet Society, and they got her.
Will you go to bed?
Yes sir. If you can't wake Mom up, I've got doubledecker bunks.
Scat!
Dad's got jungle fever, Mom. What'll I do? Mom!
Damn.
Mom?
Play?
Your mother and I do not wish to be disturbed for three full hours.
A hundred dollars!
The smallest thing I've got.
Can I get dressed first?
Make it fast.
Dad
Couldn't you have vanished quietly out the back door?
A hundred dollars for breakfast?
Leave a tip.
What kind of exercise?
Beat the shit out of someone who hates you.
I'm a man.
We've got to do something to make this boy's voice change. I wonder if we couldn't get bull balls somewhere, and fry 'em up. Still miss your mother?
No.
You're free to go to her, if you want. If you'd rather be a woman and run with the women, just say the word.
Dad?
Who was it?
It's Mom.
Mom?
What's this?
What's this?
Nothing.
That's a rifle you have?
No.
Of course it is. Is it loaded?
No.
Open the bolt!
That's a cartridge, if I'm not mistaken. Gunpowder, bullet, cartridge case, and fulminate of mercury percussion capall set to go. PAUL I was cleaning it.
Pick up that cartridge and slip it back into the chamberwhere it belongs.
Gee whiz, Dad
Welcome to manhood, you little sparrowfart! Load that gun!
Dad
Too late! It's man to man now. Protecting your mother from me, are you? Protect her!`
Then speak, by God! Can you fight with words?
I don't want to fight you.
Get mad! Tell me you don't like the way I treat your mother! Tell me you wish I'd never come home!
It's your house, Dad.
Everybody simply evaporates! There are guest issues to be fought out hereor to be argued, at least. The enemy, the champion of all who oppose me, is in East St. Louis with his mother and his aunt! I have so far done battle with a woman and a child and a violin.
I don't know what I hope. But I don't think you care what I hope, anyway. You don't know me. You don't know her, either. I don't think you know anybody. You talk to everybody just the same.
I'm talking to you gently now.
Yeah. But it's going to get loud again.
Hello.
How are you, honeybunch?
Is Penelope in?
The posies are for her?
I wanted to apologize.
You've come to the right man.
I forgot my vacuum cleaner.
I forget mine for years on end.
Oh my God And you are Looseleaf Harper.
I can't get over how you guys are my friends. Harold Ryan and Looseleaf Harper are my friends.
Our pleasure.
Eight years you guys were together through thick and thin.
For seven and a half of those years we were heavily druggedor we would have been home long before now, believe me. We were saved from starvation by the LupiLoopo Indians, who fed us a strange blue soup.
Blue soup.
It sapped our willmade us peaceful and unenterprising. It was a form of chemical castration. We became two more sleepy Indians.
Are we really going to find out where the elephants go to die?
I'd rather go to Viet Nam.
Would somebody please pass me the catsup?
What you say is, "Pass the fucking catsup."
Pass the fucking catsup.
Insurance!
You actually sold insurance!
What an awful sound!
Get used to it. Back door, Paul.
It's possible, of course, that you'll die in Africa.
I've considered that.
Selling vacuum cleaners isn't the best preparation you could have.
I just want one true adventure before I die.
That can be arranged.
Fifty years?
You're making a joke.
I'm interested in longterm expectations.
It's engineered to last about fifteen years.
Things. Ohyou silly people and your things. Things, things, things.
If I were married to him, I sure wouldn't walk out.
Never mind the condition of your body and your spirit! Look after your things, your things!
Who's going to fly our helicopter now?
What?
We got to get another pilot.
For what?
For Africa.
Do you really think that Harold Ryan would go to Africa with a vacuum cleaner salesman?
You invited me.
To make an ass of yourself.
What went wrong?
We're ahead of schedule, that's all. You're finding out here what you would have found out in Africa that you are a rabbit, born to be eaten alive.
Gee whiz
It would have been fun to see you drop your rifle and run the first time an elephant charged us.
I wouldn't drop my gun.
You're hollow, like a woman.
I'm smarter than Looseleaf.
He can shoot! He can hold his ground! He can attack! You're in your proper profession right now sucking up dirt for frumpish housewives, closet drunkards every one.
How do you know how I'd act in Africa?
Look how you're acting now! This is a moment of truth, and you're almost crying. Slug me!
You're my buddy.
Out! Out!
No matter what you say to me, I still think you're the greatest guy I ever knew.
Out!
Youyou aren't going to have any friends left, if you don't watch out.
Thank God!
Miss me, baby?
I dunno, boy.
Hm?
It's a bitch.
A bitch.
Didn't recognize you.
We've never met.
I wonder who'll recognize us first? They'll wet their pants.
I hope the men do. I would rather the women didn't.
I'm gonna wet my pants.
Home, sweet home.
One thing, anywayat least Penelope didn't throw out all your crap. I bet Alice threw out all my crap after I'd been gone a week.
We'll see.
It appears that we're going to have to wait awhile for any more action here, Colonel. Why don't you run on home while the evening's young.
Home. Jesus. I'm like this. Home!
Home is important to a man.
You know what gets me?
No.
How all the magazines show tits today.
Um.
Used to be against the law, didn't it?
I suppose.
Must have changed that law.
Home.
You know what gets me?
You know what gets me?
Oh, shit.
How everybody says "fuck" and "shit" all the time. I used to be scared shitless I'd say "fuck" or "shit" in public, by accident. Now everybody says "fuck" and "shit," "fuck" and "shit" all the time. Something very big must have happened while we were out of the country.
Looseleafwill you get the hell home?
At least we found the diamonds.
At least!
I'd really feel stupid if we didn't bring anything back home.
It's enough that you've brought yourself home!
I wish you'd tell Alice that. And that Goddamn Mrs. Wheeler.
Tell them yourself!
You don't know my motherinlaw, boy.
After eight years in the jungle with you, I know Mrs. Wheeler better than I know anybody in the universe!
I didn't tell you everything.
The time we were in a tree for fourteen days, you certainly tried to tell me everything about Mrs. Wheeler.
I didn't even scratch the surface. You're lucky, boy. You come home, and nobody's here. When I go home, everybody's going to be there.
This room is full of ghosts.
You're lucky, boy. My house is gonna be filled with people.
You know what gets me?
Go home!
Thank God we found the fucking diamonds!
The hell with the diamonds!
You were rich before. This is the first time I was ever rich.
Go home! Show them how rich you are for a change!
Can I have the Cadillac?
Take the Cadillac and drive it off a cliff, for all I care.
What'll you do for transportation?
I'll buy a hundred more Cadillacs. Go home!
You know what gets me about that Cadillac?
Go home!
When I drive it, I feel like I'm in the middle of a great big wad of bubblegum. I don't hear anything, I don't feel anything. I figure somebody else is driving. It's a bitch.
Go home.
I'm liable to find anything!
That's the point! Walk in there and find whatever there is to findbefore Alice can cover it up.
I know, I know. I dunno. At least she's in the same house. Sure was spooky, looking in the window there, and there she was.
So long, Colonel.
You know what gets me?
Let's talk about it some other time.
How short the skirts are.
Good night, Colonel. It's been beautiful.
Something very important about sex must have happened while we were gone.
You know what gets me? Those guys who went to the moon! To the moon, boy!
Leave me alone! After eight years of horrendously close association, the time has come to part! I crave solitude and time for reflection and then a reunion in privacy with my own flesh and blood. You and I may not meet again for months!
Months?
I'm certainly not going to come horning back into your life tomorrow, and I will not welcome your horning back into mine. A chapter has ended. We are old comradesat a parting of the ways.
I'm lonesome already.
I've been looking at motorcycles.
Go home!
You ever own a motorcycle?
You're right! We'll take a trip. A trip is what we'll take. I don't want to talk about motorcycles. I don't want to talk about tits. Go home!
Haven't got one.
And how were things?
Let's talk about something else.
Otherwise, how are things?
I sure didn't expect her to drop dead.
Could have happened to anybody.
First Nagasakinow this.
How about breakfast, wife?
I dunno, boy.
The educational process.
I guess. You're lucky you don't have any old people around here.
She was about to get married again. She locked me out of the bedroom last night.
What's funny about that?
You know me, boy.
Excuse me.
One of them is the doctor, whose weapons are compassion, unselfishness, peacefulness maudlin concern.
Huh.
He and his love are like a retiarius. Do you know what a retiarius is?
He's a kind of gladiator who fights with a knife and a net and doesn't wear anything but a jockstrap.
How do you know that?
You told me.
When?
When we were up in the tree so longwith the bats.
Oh. I'd forgotten.
Fourteen times you told me. I counted.
Really?
You'd get this funny look in your eyes, and I'd say to myself, "Oh, Jesushe's going to tell me what a retiarius is again."
Sorry.
Go to the funeral?
Of course! Not only go to it but go to it in full uniform! Rent a uniform!
That's against the law, isn't it? I can't wear a uniform anymore.
Wear your uniform and every decoration, and let them despise you, if they dare.
Alice would be absolutely tearass.
When I was a naive young recruit in Spain, I used to wonder why soldiers bayoneted oil paintings, shot the noses off of statues and defecated into grand pianos. I now understand: It was to teach civilians the deepest sort of respect for men in uniform uncontrollable fear. To our women.
I didn't know we had any women left.
The world is teeming with women ours to enjoy.
Every time I start thinking like that I get the clap.
I told you the uniform wouldn't help.
It helped more than you know. Down deep, people were deeply affected.
You keep on saying "deep" and "deeply." I wish something good would happen on the surface sometime.
So, kidhow they hanging? Or don't you say that to a little kid?
He's a man. Tell him you're a man.
Of course you'll go! You're going to fly the helicopter.
I dunno.
You're so low! Look at that beautiful red meat. You haven't touched it.
Sorry. At least you've got a place to come back to. I don't have a place to come back to anymore.
All the more reason to go to Africa.
I dunno. You know. I used to really love that Alice. Do you know that?
You know her for what she is now garbage.
I dunno.
She was always a rotten wife! She was against everything manly you ever wanted to do. He was the most daring test pilot in the country at one time, and his wife made him quit. She made him become a life insurance salesman instead.
Hi, Penelope.
Shut up, you ninny! You were never to come here again for any reason whatsoever!
Go live in a safedeposit boxwith your things. LOOSELEAF JesusI wouldn't want to be married to him. You know?
What's this?
I wouldn't want to be married to me. We're too crazy. You know?
In what way, pray tell?
I didn't like that violin thing. That was sad.
Tit for tatas simple as that.
You never played a violin.
You did?
Yeah. I practically forgot. But after you busted that thing, I got to thinking, "Jesusmaybe I'll start the violin again." That didn't just belong to Woodly. That belonged to everybody. Maybe he would have sold it to me, and I could have some fun. After you busted the violin, boy, and Penelope walked out, I thought to myself, "Jesuswho could blame her?"
Maybe it's time you got out.
Me?
You.
Okay. Okay.
You're an imbecile.
I know you think that.
Everybody thinks that.
Anybody who'd drop an atom bomb on a city has to be pretty dumb.
The one direct, decisive, intelligent act of your life!
I don't think so. It could have been.
If what?
If I hadn't done it. If I'd said to myself, "Screw it. I'm going to let all those people down there live."
They were enemies. We were at war.
Yeah, Jesusbut wars would be a lot better, I think, if guys would say to themselves sometimes, "JesusI'm not going to do that to the enemy. That's too much." You could have been the manufacturer of that violin there, even though you don't know how to make a violin, just by not busting it up. I could have been the father of all those people in Nagasaki, and the mother, too, just by not dropping the bomb. I sent 'em to Heaven insteadand I don't think there is one.
Goodbye, Looseleaf.
Yes?
Dr. Loomis, thank God you're here. You heard her, didn't you? It was Jamie.
I'm sorry, but do I know you 
I'm Tommy. Tommy Doyle. Laurie Strode  Jamie's mother  she was babysitting for me that night 
Yes ... Tommy. What are you doing here?
Please  just tell me the truth. Has Michael Myers come home?
What do you know about Michael?
I know he's alive. People in this town  they want us to believe he's dead. But I know. I've always known.
Right now at least one girl is dead and Jamie Lloyd is in there fighting for her life. She is the last of his blood line. If she dies 
No, Dr. Loomis. She's not the last night.
Who else knew I had the baby?!
No one.
No  there had to be someone else. Who knew?!
Only me   and Dr. Wynn.
Run, Tommy!!! Run!!!
No!!!
Christ, what a night! Not even so much as a sign for five miles on that road!
That's the whole idea of living in the country. I thrive on the seclusion.
Unlike you, Sam, I learned many years ago not to secondguess the motives of my fellow man. Remember what Freud said: 'Sometimes a cigar is just a cigar.' Or, in this case, a drink is just a drink.
I hope you didn't come all the way out here in this storm just to quote Freud.
As always, your keen powers of perception astound me. And you're right. I've come to celebrate. After thirtytwo years as Psychiatric Administrator, guess who has been named Smith's Groves new Chief of Staff.
But surely Rogers isn't 
Retiring.
We need you, Dr. Loomis.
You should know that it's not wise to play Halloween pranks on me.
You're the only man for the job, Sam. Things haven't been the same since you left. I'm recruiting the best psychiatric team in the country. Old colleagues. This is your change to finally make a difference.
But with Rogers and his house of hacks gone, you'd make the rules. Just think it over.
Please try to understand, Terence. I've already made up my mind.
It was her voice. On the radio. It was Jamie. Calling for me.
You don't know that for sure. It could have been anyone. A practical joke. Kids.
It was Jamie Lloyd. She came back, as I knew she would one day. And whatever has brought her back has brought Michael back as well.
After six years? Sam, she died with him in that explosion after the 
That's what someone wants us to believe, but I tell you Michael is alive. I feel him. I sense the evil that lives inside, just as I did all those years as I watched him. Sitting behind these very same walls. Staring. Growing stronger. As my colleague, as my friend, please. I can't go through this again. Not alone. I need your help to stop him.
Notify Haddonfield's sheriff; tell him we're on our way. I want the entire staff on alert. We go to code red lockdown for twentyfour hours. If he is alive, I plan on bringing him back.
Or what's left of him.
What is that?
It's a sign. He's come home.
Sam, don't  let them take care of her.
I'm here now, Jamie. You're going to live. You have to.
There you are. Who was that boy?
An old friend.
There's more people moving eastbound down Old Reservoir Road past the elementary school.
Any word on the location of the Strodes?
No one's home. Checked it out myself.
Good. I want aroundtheclock surveillance on that house.
What's wrong? What's happened to Jamie?
I'll meet you over there.
Where's the child?
Sam, you know you never fail to amaze me. Yesterday happily retired, today right back in the thick of things. Somehow I knew you still had it in you.
Come now, Sam. This is a gathering of old friends. I know how difficult this must be for you  a man of your upbringing and integrity  but now that I'm in charge I felt it was only fair that you finally know the truth. After all, you're the only one around here who's still in the dark, as it were. This isn't the way I wanted to tell you, but you've really given me no other choice.
This is madness, Wynn.
Your madness is another man's greatness. This is the way things have always been. You've just been too blinded by your own reality to see. But having you on the outside has been convenient for us in many ways. You always did come through  our loyal watch dog. Finding him. Bringing him back to us once he'd finished his work. Although after you had that nasty stroke the last time, I had to go after him myself. And what a terrible time we had getting him out of that jail cell.
It was you.
Sometimes a cigar is just a cigar.
Why did you take Jamie?
She has the gift  the blood of Thorn running through her veins. Michael's mother had it, too. So for six years I incubated her, prepared her for this night. Michael has served his purpose. And soon we will have a new progeny.
Jamie's baby ...
There you go trying to make sense again. It's a curse. Handed down through countless generations. As ageless as this celebration which you call Halloween.
Samhain.
And I'm its deliverer. Its calling card, if you will. I follow it. Protect it. Act as its guardian. In a sense, Sam, so do you.
You've created a monster.
Amazing, isn't it? I even taught him to drive.
No!!!
Stay away, Sam.
Leave the boy. Take me.
She wasn't here when I brought Danny home from 
Danny, go downstairs  Now!
My, God! What have you done to him?
I didn't  He got in a fight and I 
You stay away from him!
Do you know how insane this is? Who am I supposed to be looking for?
Him.
God, what's wrong with him?
Here. Let me try.
Kyle's mother might be dead for all I know. Now I'm afraid he could be next.
Why would anyone want to kill an innocent baby?
Not just Kyle. All of you. His entire family. Here. Look at this.
It was there when I found him this morning. It looks like some kind of letter or number or 
It's a rune ... Thorn.
Runes were a kind of early alphabet that originated in Northern Europe thousands of years ago. They were symbols  carved out of stone or pieces of wood. Of all the runes, Thorn had the most negative influence. Cults used them in blood rituals to portend future events and invoke magic.
Black magic ... 'In ancient times, Thorn was believed to cause sickness, famine and death. Translated literally, it was the name of a demon spirit that delivered human sacrifices ... on the Celtic celebration of Samhain.'
Halloween.
'When applied directly to another person, Thorn could be used to call upon them confusion and destruction  to literally visit them with the Devil.'
Where are you going?
To find the rest of your family before Michael Myers does  or whoever's been controlling him.
Danny?! Danny!
Mrs. Blankenship, have you seen the little boy who came in with me and 
Where's the baby?!
He's gone.
Danny! Danny, where are you?!
Kara, no!
What now?!
Wait a minute ...
Come on!
It's not working!
So they're trying to kill you and your baby. Don't tell me. Your name also happens to be Rosemary.
No  please listen! They're coming ... coming for me and my baby.
Come on, sweetheart  what is this? Who's coming?
It's ... Michael ... ... Michael Myers!
So they're trying to kill you and your baby. Don't tell me. Your name also happens to be Rosemary.
No, please listen! They're coming ... coming for me and my baby.
Come on, sweetheart  what is this? Who's coming?
It's ... Michael ... Michael Myers!
I've been knocking. The door was open. Is everything all right in here?
Who are you?
I've come to help your family.
He crept up these stairs and made his way into this room. His sister's room. Right here. Where it all began.
What makes you think he'll come here again?
This house is sacred to him. It's the source of his memories  his rage. Mrs. Strode, I beg you. Don't let your family suffer the same fast as Laurie and her daughter.
Jamie? But I thought she was 
Found this morning. In a field outside Haddonfield. Stabbed.
What should I do?
Lock the doors and call your husband. Get your family as far away from Haddonfield as possible.
God ... this can't be true.
Mrs. Strode, Michael Myers is here to kill his family. And he won't stop until you are all destroyed. I only thank God that I found you before he did.
Shitheads ... Defacing my property. I showed them ...
Relax, John. They were just kids.
Kids are what's ruining this country. Everywhere you go, it's the same. No goddamn respect.
See what I'm talkin' about?
You'll never pass that exam on an empty stomach, Kara.
What is it this time?
A man came by the house. A psychiatrist by the name of Loomis.
He told me about the terrible things that happened here. In our house.
What the fuck are you doing letting strangers in without 
John, they sound Jamie Lloyd this morning! Someone tried to kill her!
What in God's name are you talking about, woman? When are you gonna stop listening to those damned talk shows?
I'm getting the children out of here. At least until we know what we're dealing with. John, I want you to come with us.
Debra, you're fuckin' insane.
You knew, didn't you, John? You knew.
Shh. Mommy's here. What is it?
The voice man! He's here!
Home is here in Grandma and Grandpa's new house. At least while I'm in college. Remember our deal.
The kids at school said this is a haunted house  that a bad man used to live here.
They did, did they? Since when did we start listening to the kids at school?
But I've seen him!
You've been watching too much TV.
He says things. Bad things.
Like what?
No, Mom  keep it on!
Okay ... But just for tonight.
Mom, I want to go to the fair ...
You can't expect us to stay here 
Come on, Mom. We're gonna miss all the fun stuff!
Danny, you're just going to have to wait!
Mommy, I'm scared.
There's nothing to be scared of, baby. It's just another storm. Try to get some sleep.
I can't. The voice man is coming to get me.
No one's coming to get you. Not while I'm around.
Promise?
I promise.
Mommy!!!
Danny!!!
Hold on, hot lips. We got work to do.
Shit, Beth, why do we have to be the ones to organnize this friggin' fair? It's only Halloween.
Whatever happened to women in back?
Reality check, dillweed. This is 1995.
Happy fuckin' Halloween.
Someone's trying to scare us out of having this fair ... and it's not gonna work.
Seventhirty is the costume pageant ... Carving jacko'lanterns at eight ... Photos for the school paper at nine ... Then Harry lights the tree at nine thirty ... I just know I'm forgetting something!
Relax. Everything's cool. Didn't I tell you Harry would be here?
Jesus, that's my neighbor. Tommy.
Isn't he that psycho who's been spying on my sister?
Kara and Danny never showed up tonight. We'd better go home and check on them. There's nothing else for us to do here.
But they're gonna light the tree in a few minutes 
We can light our own tree at home.
Guess they  went to the fair after all.
Guess so ...
What if your parents come home?
Then they can watch.
Aren't you gonna answer that?
Answer what?
What if it's Kara?
He do that to you?
Another episode of 'Daddy Knows Best' at the Strode house.
Pig. What the hell happened this time?
Beth, who's that guy that lives across the hall from you?
Why? You interested?
No! I keep seeing him staring out his window. Watching me.
You mean Tommy. Yeah, on the weirdness scale he's about an eleven. Supposedly some scary shit happened to him when he was a kid. Messed up his head. He's harmless, though. Probably just lonely.
Mom  Who is this?
Kara? ... No, this is Beth.
What are you doing there? Where's my mother?
We were worried about you guys so we left early to see if you were 
Is Tim there?
He's in the bathroom.
You aced it, didn't you?
I did alright.
Fuckin' A.
He gave me a fuckin' A? Wow.
What's this?
You say, "The key to my heart," and I'm gonna hurl.
Better her than me.
You're unbelievable.
Ooooh, busted.
Big time. And news travels fast. Wouldn't be surprised if the whole school knows about this one by tonight.
Shane's going as a condom.
I thought you were allergic to latex.
I'll pop a Benadryl.
You think they'll let him in dressed like that?
Oh, they're so stupid... I'll just tell them he's going as a sausage casing.
BLAAAAAGGGHHHHH!
Shit, Linda!
You're so easy...
Wasn't scaring the hell out of me once today enough?!
Nope. Hey, you think I'll win scariest costume?
Linda, you are without a doubt the scariest person on campus.
Thanks!
Where's Shane?
Condom Boy is waiting for me in the cafeteria.
But the dance is in the gymnasium.
Very insightful.
Let the party begin.
Have enough fun for the both of us.
Oh, don't be such a victim.
Look, they're staring right at us.
You think your mom knows we snuck out last night?
Wait.
What is it?
I have to pee.
Can't you hold it?
Can't you?
Aren't they doing a terrific job this year?
Looks great. It does.
You okay? You seem a little off.
Nothing a good stiff drink can't fix.
It's John, isn't it?
It's always John.
Still wants to move out?
He's been living out of moving boxes for three months.
This kid just wants his freedom.
It's not going to happen.
The tighter you squeeze, the harder he'll try to break free.
Oh, please... you get that out of a fortune cookie?
Doesn't make it bad advice.
I'm going into town... run a few errands before dark. Need anything?
A box of fortune cookies... I'm running out of advice.
Bye Will.
Hey, you alright?
What?
What are you looking at?
I'm fine. I just need to lie down...
There's something I have to tell you both. It's going to sound strange...
What?
My name hasn't always been Keri Tate. It was once Laurie Strode.
You're right. It does sound strange.
Who?
Michael Meyers.
The serial killer?
He's my brother.
No, Will, this isn't the alcohol talking. It's the truth.
I can't believe this is happening.
Shit happens.
You just dropped a shitload on him... give him some time to digest it.
Are you going to leave, too?
Never.
So you're really Michael Meyers' sister?
Yeah.
Do we have to invite him to the wedding?
Not a real fan of Halloween humor, Will.
Oh, right. Sorry.
I'm gonna head back to the office... finish up some things.
Can't it wait till Monday? I thought maybe we could dance... I'm very light of my feet.
Keri, you all right?
We've got to get these kids out of here...
I'll make sure there's no kids left in the dorms...
Molly, of all the people... if I can't trust my resident assistant, then what?
I know. I'm really, really sorry, Miss Tate. Please let me keep the job... it's the only way I can afford to stay here.
Okay, tell you what... you can still be the school R.A., but no dance tomorrow night.
Okay... thank you.
Linda! He killed Linda!
Who?!
Michael Meyers!
Shelve the barf bag. It's the key to the main gate.
Where'd you get it?
Swiped it from my mom's desk yesterday.
You stole it?
I borrowed it.
Not me.
Why not?
I can't afford to get caught.
Nah, I didn't tell her where I went.
Is that all you guys can think about? Amy never came back last night. Maybe she's in trouble.
What are you doing here?!
I came to see you.
I can see that. Why?
Can I come in?
Are you crazy? You'll get caught.
Then you come out here.
Then I'll get caught.
Well, I'm not going until I talk to you.
Alright. I'll come out. Just be quiet.
You really think Eddie killed her?
You saw that Michael Meyers display. You've got to be pretty twisted to come up with something like that.
I guess. It's just hard to believe.
You look kind of cold.
I'm okay.
Here, take my jacket.
Better?
Yeah.
Nothing's changed since yesterday, or last week, or last month... the answer's still "no."
You're so predictable.
What the 
Betcha' didn't predict that.
I'm sixteen, Keri. I should be able to live wherever I want.
And I should have a son who calls me "Mom". Looks like we're both shit out of luck.
Okay, you win. I'll call you Mom. Now can I move into the dorms?
No.
Well, Dad thinks it's okay.
You're father thinks it's okay to run off to Cancun with a blonde bimbo in a halter top. Somehow his opinion doesn't count.
I promise not to run off to Cancun.
Forget it.
The dorms are only fifty feet away. You could practically see into my window. So, what difference does it make?
My point exactly. See, we both agree.
Alright, I was wrong. There is a big difference between rooming with your buddies and living with your mother and school headmaster.
I took the padlock off your door. What more do you want?
My life is a living hell.
Where are you going?
To the bathroom. Can I do that alone or do you want to watch?
I thought you'd never ask.
You're twisted.
I know.
Shit, John! What the hell were you doing out there?!
Nothing.
You're kidding with that answer, right?
I just went for a walk. It's no big deal.
Wrong. There are rules in this house and you're going to follow them whether you like it or not.
Or what? You're gonna shoot me?
It's an option.
Well, maybe if you'd let me live in the dorms, I wouldn't have to sneak out to spend time with my friends.
Oh, so now it's my fault?
Just forget it...
I'm sorry, alright? It was just a stupid joke.
Will, sit down...
You some kind of fugitive or something?
I was trying to get away from someone.
Now you're joking, right?
Afraid not. You can pick your friends, but you can't pick your family.
Wait a minute... slow down... you're telling me Michael Meyers is my uncle?
Yes.
Any other psychotic relatives I should know about? Jason? Freddy Krueger?
No.
Why didn't you tell me?
I was trying to protect you from this...
Where are you going?
I don't know.
He found you, didn't he?
Get on the bus.
Where's Molly? She's not in her room...
Just get on the bus.
I'm not leaving without her.
John, you can't help her now.
What? Where is she?
John...
Oh, God... no... not Molly.
Please, get on the bus...
Yeah, me too, Keri.
Call me Laurie, will ya?
Keri.... Laurie... how about if I just call you Mom?
That would work.
Hey, Mis Whittington, what's up?
My blood pleasure. You scared the hell out of me.
Oh. Sorry. I'm on my way to the ring and 
I think someone broke into my house.
No shit?!
No shit.
Jimmy, what are you doing?
Checking out your place.
No. Wait for the police.
And miss the big game? No way.
Nothing to fear. The coast is clear.
You sure?
Totally. I checked all the rooms and closets...
Nothing's missing?
Don't think so. But they sure did a real number on your office. Crap everywhere.
My office?
Yeah. Oh, and they messed up your kitchen pretty good, too... Goodnight.
Besides, it's historically inaccurate.
What the fuck are you talking about?
Michael Meyers never used a meat cleaver. It was a butcher knife.
Who are you, the serial killer police? What difference does it make?
It's not historically accurate, that's all.
Another historical inaccuracy.
Would somebody shut this guy up?
Bruce... what's going on? The kids are here to pick out their costumes for the festival.
Better take 'em to Virgil's downtown. We got a dead body in there.
A dead body?
It's Amy Kramer.
My god...
Pretty messy. Parents have already been notified. Our office has been trying to get a hold of you...
Do you know who did this?
Well, Eddie Catero didn't show up for work this morning... parents say he never came home last night. Car's still missing.
Think Eddie had something to do with it?
Doesn't look good.
I'll be damned.
Do I know you?
Mind if we sit down?
I'd prefer you didn't. I'm very busy.
Okay, then how 'bout we ask you a few questions?
Detective...
Carter.
... I think it would be best if you both left.
Might want to stop and think about the safety of your students, Miss Tate.
I never stop thinking about it, Detective. The only way in or out of this school is through that gate, and it is secured at all times.
Funny, we just drove right in.
Well, I can assure you, it won't happen again. Thanks for your concern. Goodbye.
No thanks, I'm not thirsty.
It's for your cigarette. I prefer not to contaminate my crime scene with micropollutants.
Why am I here?
They said on the phone you were assigned to the Meyers case.
With all due respect, detective, you can't go blaming every brutal murder in Illinois on Michael Meyers.
Pamela Whittington was a long time associate of Dr. Loomis. Her home office was ransacked. It was chock full of Loomis' files on Meyers. It'd say that makes Meyers a suspect, wouldn't you?
Well, when you put it that way.
Right. So why don't we get on with this investigation?
I like a woman who takes control.
One set of muddy shoe prints.
That don't match either of the victim's.
Where, judging by the looks of the finger and palm prints, she struggles to open the window before banging on it like hell.
Unable to escape, she turns and attacks the killer, but doesn't connect.
No blood on the knife.
The killer knocks the knife out of her hand with the wroughtiron poker.
Broken blood vessels on her right forearm.
As which point she drops to her knees in pain...
Explaining the low height of the blood splatter on the curtains...
Impressive, Blake. Where'd you learn how to do that?
Girl scouts.
Carter.
It's Blake. Meet me at Grand View.
Where?
The cemetery...
Yeah, alright... I'll be there in ten.
You take all your dates here. Blake?
Only the real stiffs.
I can be real stiff.
Charming.
That's it?
Care to join me?
Come on, Carter. You know it's Michael.
What do you want me to do, put out an A.P.B. on a man in overalls wearing a white mask dragging a headstone?
Yes.
Sweet dreams, Blake.
Carter.
It's Blake. How do you feel about Wisconsin?
We're sorry to startle you, Miss Tate.
The door was open, so we let ourselves in.
Detective Carter from the Haddonfield P.D.
Toni Blake from Langley P.D.
Mr. Simms.
Why yes, Mr. Dillon. Here's a potential new neighbor, looking at
Uhhuh. Mrs. Langtry may drop by.
Well, thank you. And thank them.
Sickness comes to us all, Mister Dillon.
That's true, Mr. Simms.
We never know when and we never know why. We never know how. The only blessed thing we know is, it'll be at the most inconvenient and unexpected time. Just when you've got tickets to the World Series. And that's the way the permanent waves.
Well, I'm back now. I just wanted you to know. Gotta rush.
Happy to see you looking so good.
Roy Dillon?
Yes?
Lieutenant Pierson, Phoenix police. I have a car here.
Thank you.
I realize this is a shock.
Well, mostly, I don't believe it.
That's natural.
No. I mean, I don't believe it. Lilly is not a suicide. I know my mother, nothing would make her check out.
I'm sorry, it was her all right. Her gun, even.
Gun?
I grant you, it's a little odd, shoot yourself with a gun with a silencer on it, but it was hers, all right. It really is your mother, Mister Dillon.
It may be Lilly, but it isn't suicide.
Do you have any particular reason to say that?
My mother... Well, I guess it doesn't matter now. She worked for gamblers. She always knew they might turn on her some day.
A hit, you mean. Honestly, it doesn't have that feel to it, but I'll certainly consider the possibility. Thank you for telling me.
Not that it matters. This is the morgue?
You up to it now?
Sure. Let's get it over.
One thing I have to caution you about. A gunshot wound...
Yes, I know, I know.
Well, uh, you know, she ate the gun.
What?
I'm sorry, that's an unfortunate phrase, it slipped out, I'm, to tell you the truth, Mr. Dillon, this isn't an everyday occurrence around here.
Ate the gun. Oh.
Someone who knows her well could still identify her, that's not the problem. It's just there's, uh, it's likely to be a shock.
Well, let's get the shock over with.
Not many laughs in this room, eh?
Not many.
Oh, Jesus.
No question, huh?
No, its  Why did she?
That's that, then.
Oh, yeah. That's that.
Well, well. In a real hurry, are we?
Always, for you, baby.
You aren't taking me for granted, are you?
Taking you for granite?
That isn't granite. If that fell on me, it wouldn't hurt at all.
Are you sure?
Let's find out.
Roy?
Mm?
Look at me.
Oh, I am, baby, believe me.
Roy? It this all we have?
All? It ain't bad.
No more than this?
What are you talking abut, Myra? Marriage?
I didn't say that. You aren't marriage material.
Ow! Hey, what are you trying to do, throw me off my game?
No, baby. Come to Mama.
You were bleeding inside, honey. Remember that bruise you had?
You called the doctor, huh?
Well, no, Roy. Your mother found you.
Oh, yeah? Thanks. How long do they say I'm in here?
Her job.
I want to know everything about you.
You do. And once I'm out of here, I'll remind you of the best parts.
I don't see why you're still here. You look healthy to me.
I just do what the doctor says, babe.
You're just comfortable, that's all. You don't even ask to go home. You just lie around, let your mama take care of you.
Mama!
Who else is paying for all this? You badmouth the woman all the time, but you sure do take the payoffs she gives you.
I'll pay Lilly back, don't you worry about that.
I don't like to come here, Roy. Every time I do, your mother comes in and makes remarks.
That's just Lilly's way.
And you never defend me. You're afraid of her.
Oh, don't be stupid.
You're a mama's boy, if you want the truth.
Get well soon.
Every day in every way.
I'll see you when you get home.
I don't see why we have to take the train.
Because it's comfortable.
What if we want to drive somewhere while we're there?
We'll rent a car.
Big spender.
You ain't seen nothin.
No.
See you soon.
You were right, I had to get out of that hospital. Nothing wrong with me any more.
I'll sign that affidavit.
Great to get away, take it easy. Next week, I'll get back to work.
You already went back to work.
What?
I watched you. Working the tap on those soldier boys.
Working the what?
Oh, come on, Roy.
The tap. What you do for a living.
I'm a salesman.
You're on the grift. Same as me.
Myra, I'm not following this.
Roy, you're a shortcon operator. And a good one, I think. Don't talk to me like I'm another square.
You talk the lingo. What's your pitch?
The long end. Big con.
Nobody does that singleo.
I was teamed ten years with the best in the business. Cole Langley.
I've heard the name.
It was beautiful. And getting better all the time.
Is that right?
It is, Roy! And now, right now, it's the perfect time, the best time since I've been in the game.
He didn't think they were risks. He was so good, Roy, he could just play with the mark.
And when he got serious?
He'd explain he had to have cash, so there wouldn't be any paper trail for the SEC. And a lot of cash, or it wasn't worth while. The least we ever took was forty thousand, and the most was one hundred eightyfive thousand dollars! From one sucker!
I thought these people were broke.
No, no, Roy, just cash poor. They had savings accounts, stocks to sell, houses to mortgage. Sell their wife's jewelry. Oh, they had a lot of money, when they put their minds to it. Or when I put their minds to it. I stayed with them, that's the roper's job, made them get up every penny they could raise, turn it all over to Cole.
And a month later, the sucker calls the cops and you're on the run.
No no! He never calls the cops, not after we give him the blowoff.
Yeah? How?
Oh, Roy, it was great! We were rolling in dough, lived wherever we wanted, only pulled two or three scams a year.
What happened to Cole?
He retired.
Where?
Upstate.
Upstate where?
Atascadero.
That's where they keep the criminally insane, isn't it?
I just bet you are, too. And now you're trying to rope me.
Join up with you! I watched you, Roy, I've been watching you, wondering if I should talk about this at all, or maybe just...
Take a hike, you mean?
I need a partner, Roy. I need an inside man, and you're it. You could be as wonderful as Cole.
I don't know, Myra, I never had partners. I never needed them.
Not to take soldiers for a hundred bucks. But how about taking a bank president for a hundred grand?
Think about it. Okay?
Sure.
I still don't see why we have to have separate rooms. You expect your father to come through?
Separate bathrooms, darling. I will not lay out all my cosmetics for you to knock over.
Things a man isn't supposed to know.
You don't mind, really, do you, Roy? It's been such a wonderful evening, I guess I just wore myself out.
Sure. I'm pretty tired myself.
Yeah?
Open your door.
What? What for?
Open it and find out.
You  I don't know.
) If you could have seen your face when I told you good night! You looked so, so... Ah!
Oh, come here.
You were gone for a while.
I went out to Delmar.
) The track? Did you run into Lilly?
I saw her.
She didn't see you, in other words.
I'm not trying to make trouble, Roy. It's just, she's always so nasty to me, I thought, who is she to be so high and mighty. I saw her out there, and I called a friend of mine in Baltimore, so now I know who she is.
You must have some very knowledgeable friends.
I'm well connected, Roy, Cole introduced me to a lot of people. Very valuable. Valuable for us.
Running your broker scam, you mean.
You and me, Roy. What a team we'll make. We think alike; we get along together. Once or twice a year we take some slob, the rest of the time we live like this. You won't regret this, Roy.
Regret what? I didn't say I was coming aboard.
But why not? I thought it was settled. What's holding you back?
Come on, Myra, don't talk business here. This is time out.
You mean, it would be too tough to give me a turndown here. Easier on home grounds.
Yes or no. They're both easier at home. Okay?
And hello to you, too.
I called a fellow I know in Tulsa, the one who plays my chauffeur. There's a sucker there he says is made for us. And a boroker that just shut down, we can use their office, not change a thing! Now, I can scrape up ten grand without much trouble. That leaves fifteen or twenty for your end. We could start this weekend, get the sucker into position 
Wait a minute! When did this happen, that we're partners?
What?
The last I looked, we were just talking things over.
But the setup's there. It's there now.
I don't think I need it.
You're too good for the smalltime, Roy. Move up to where there's big dough to be made, and you don't have to stick your neck out every day.
Maybe I like it where I am.
Don't I get any say in this?
No! Because I 
That's what I say.
What?
What I say is, no. We don't do partners.
For Christ's sake, why not?
Mostly, because you scare the shit out of me. I've seen people like you before, baby. Doubletough and sharp as they come, and you get what you want or else. But you don't make it work forever.
Bullshit!
No; history. Sooner or later, the lightning hits. I don't want to be around when it hits you.
What is it? What's going on?
I'm happy the way I am.
By God, it's your mother. It's Lilly.
) What?
Sure it is. That's why you act so funny around each other.
What's that?
Don't act so goddamned innocent! You and your own mother, gah! You like to go back where you been, huh?
You watch that mouth.
I'm wise to you, I should have seen it before, you rotten son of a bitch. How is it, huh? How do you like 
I didn't teach you that.
You taught me a lot. Then I invented.
Let me see how you did that one.
Scram. Go home.
I can't. I just left home.
You're too young. You should be in school.
I am in school.
Where's the five?
In your other hand.
You heard the shower, didn't you?
I don't care about that. This time, I gotta have the rent.
Joe, I thought I was gonna be all right by now, I just need a little more 
It isn't the owner, Myra, it's my wife. She knows what's going on. This time, I gotta have the money.
Joe, you know you'll 
Joe, could we talk it over? Do you want a drink?
My wife sent me here, Myra. For the money. She's waiting.
I'll have it tonight. Nine o'clock? Ten?
This time...
We'll work something out, Joe.
So what's your story today?
They twisted my arm.
Only one arm?
They knocked out my tooth!
Only one tooth?
Sure I am. What made you turn up, after all these years?
I'm working down in San Diego. Just for a few weeks. Thought I'd drop in on my longlost son.
Nice to see you. What am I doing in here?
Well... You're all right now, I guess. I have to get down to the track.
Thanks, uh, Lilly.
Don't mention it.
I guess I owe you my life.
You always did.
What happened to your hand?
Just a little accident. I went by your place, picked up your mall. Just bills, I'll take care of them.
I can take care of my own bills, Lilly.
Whatever you say. The manager says your boss called. Really pulled the wool over everybody's eyes, huh?
What are you talking about? So I've got a job. So what?
Stop kidding me! Four years in a town like Los Anggleez, and a peanut selling job is the best you can do? You expect me to believe that?
It's there. The boss called, you said so yourself.
And that dump you live in! Those clown pictures on the walls!
I like those.
You do not! Roy Dillon? Cornball clown pictures? Commission salesman? It's all a front, isn't it? You're on the grift, I know you are. You're working some angle, and don't tell me you're not because I wrote the book!
You're one to talk. Still running playback money for the mob.
That's me. That's who I am. You were never cut out for the rackets, Roy, and if you 
How come?
Not as tough as you, huh?
No. And you have to be.
Up to you.
My boss is a guy named Bobo Justus, back in Baltimore. When a long shot gets too much action, I have to put money on that horse at the track, because it's the only way to get the odds down.
Sure.
The first day of the Delmar meet, there was a nag called Bluebell. I should have been on it. But that was the day after you came in here, so I stuck around to see how you were gonna be.
That was my choice, nothing to do with you. I took a chance, and it didn't work out.
Bluebell came in?
I sent Bobo ten grand of my own money, like it was the winnings from my bets. I hoped that would cover me. It didn't.
Lucky? You call that lucky?
He let me live. He let me be his friend.
You don't put up with that! Nobody has to put up with that!
You do if you're where I am. Where you want to be. How'd you get that punch in the stomach, Roy?
I tripped over a chair.
Get off the grift, Roy.
Why?
You don't have the stomach for it.
I just give you your life. What you do with it is up to you.
That's right.
Roy! What are you doing in San Diego?
Myra and me come down to LaJolla for the weekend.
If you come out to the track, don't know me.
We won't hit the track. The beach. Couple a nice restaurants.
What's that?
Four grand. For the hospital. Is that enough?
Roy, I don't want money from you.
I pay my debts.
You do?
Expecting visitors?
No. That was the point.
You ought to put a bandage on that.
No can do. Have to dip in and out of my bag too much. Besides, it'll heal in the air.
I thought... I was hoping we could play it straight with one another.
I guess not. You'll be heading east from here, huh?
After the meet. Back to Baltimore.
Well... nice to see you again, Lilly.
You, too, Roy.
Well, sure, Roy. You want me to drive up ? Okay, fine, come on down. It won't be a homecooked meal, you know.
Well, that's good news.
Going somewhere?
Somewhere else, that's for sure.
I just came back from Phoenix.
Oh, yeah? Is the frame holding?
Looks very solid, Lilly. Sit down. Take a minute, tell me about it.
I've really got to 
You're dead, Lilly, it worked.
Not for long. Not when they do a fingerprint check.
Why should they? The cops are satisfied.
Bobo won't be. He'll spend the money to make sure.
Even so. You still got time. Relax a minute, tell me what happened. Sit down.
Myra followed you, huh?
She must have been the one that blew me off with Bobo. I guess to get me running. Did you tell her about my stash?
No.
No, you wouldn't. That's what she was after, though. But why hit on me?
I wouldn't go in on a deal with her. She blamed you for it.
As though you do what I say.
That's pretty funny, all right. What happened in Phoenix?
I sat in there with her, I thought, what do I do now? Run and I've got Bobo and the law after me. Stay, and how do I explain?
This way's perfect.
It is, isn't it? And maybe it's a break for me after all. I've been wanting out of the racket for years, and now I'm out. I can make a clean start, and 
You've already made a start. Doesn't look that clean, though.
I'm sorry. I hated to take your money, but 
Don't be sorry. You're not taking it.
I need this, Roy. I can't run without money, and if I can't run I'm dead.
You must have some money.
Just a few bucks.
And Myra's stuff?
Her credit cards. How far am I gonna get with that?
Far enough. Maybe up to San Francisco. Or St. Louis, someplace new. Start over.
At what?
You're smart, Lilly, and you're goodlooking. You won't have any trouble finding a job.
A job? I've never had a legit job in my life!
Well, you're gonna start, if you hope to live through this. A square job and a quiet life. You start showing up at the track or the hot spots and Bobo's boys will be all over you.
Roy, I know what to do with myself! It's a big world out there.
Not any more. Lilly, listen, I'm giving you good advice. I'm following it myself.
What?
I thought it over, and you were right. You wanted me out of the rackets, and now 
Roy, that's fine, but I don't have time for this. Bobo 
I thought you'd be happy for me. After all, you 
Bobo isn't after you! Bobo's after me, and he's goddamn good! But so am I. I'm a survivor, Roy. I survive.
I know you do, so that's why 
And to survive, my way, I need money. Bobo knows about the stash in the car, so I didn't dare touch it, not if Lilly Dillon's dead. So that leaves this.
No.
You want a drink?
I don't think so. You probably shouldn't either.
No, but I'm goddamn thirsty. Ice water?
Yeah, sure, that sounds nice.
I'll get it.
You don't know what I'd do, Roy. You have no idea. To live.
Oh, you'll live, Lilly.
I know what's bugging you, of course.
Oh? I didn't know anything was.
Oh, really? You've got a legitimate complaint, Roy, I don't deny that. I wasn't a very good mother when you were a kid.
Not very good!
A bad mother. By any standards. I've thought about it, you know, from your side, since then. I know just how bad I was.
Uhhuh.
I wonder did you ever think about it from my side.
Never.
No, I guess not. It was pretty lousy of me, I guess, to be a child at the same time you were. Not to stop being a child just because I had a child. I guess I was a real stinker not to be a grownup when you needed a grownup.
What do you want me to do? Pin a halo on you? You're doing a pretty good job of that yourself.
And making you feel bad at the same time, huh? But that's the way I am, you know, the way I've always been. Always picking on poor little Roy.
For God's sake, Lilly!
I gave you your life twice. I'm asking you to give me mine once. I need the money.
No.
You're getting off the grift?
That's right.
That's good. You don't really belong on this side of the fence, you know.
I don't?
If you stayed a crook, do you think you'd live to be my ripe age?
I don't see why not.
Well, I guess I got it wrong, then. Seems to me I heard about a guy just your age that got hit so hard in the guts it almost killed him.
Well, uh...
Sure, sure, that doesn't count. That's different.
Well, it doesn't matter, does it? I'm getting out.
And that's why you've got to get rid of this money. If you keep it around, it'll just make you think how clever you are. It'll be a temptation to get back into the game.
Oh, that's it! You're stealing my money for my own good! How very motherly of you, Lilly.
If I should get out of the racket, that goes double for you. That's why you've got to change your life completely, go to some town, get a square job, live like a john yourself. If you try to do it your way, what future is in it?
A future. The only future I've got.
That money wouldn't last forever. And then what? You'd be back in some other part of the rackets. Another Bobo Justus to slap you around and burn holes in your hands. This way, you've got to go the square route. You could send me a card when you're settled, I could maybe help out sometimes...
) That's what it is, isn't it? Keep me down. Your turn to be in charge, have the power.
Just trying to help, Lilly.
Roy... What if I told you I wasn't really your mother? That we weren't related?
What?
There's nothing more to talk about.
I have to have that money, Roy. What do I have to do to get it?
Lilly, Jesus, what are you doing?
Is there nothing I can do, Roy, nothing at 
NO!
Whadaya say?
Hello.
Kaggs. Home office.
Roy Dillon.
I know that. Knew it when I saw you out there. The best salesman here, which isn't saying much. Want to talk to you, Dillon.
What's up?
That was a pretty backhanded compliment. If I let people get away with things like that, I wouldn't be a good salesman.
You're right. I apologize. But I still want to talk to you.
Lead on.
When I said you being the best salesman here didn't say much, I meant for us. I know your record with Sarber and Webb, and I'd say you're a topflight man, but you've had no incentive. No one walking on your heels. Just a lot of half asses, so the tendency's been not to stretch yourself. I'm bouncing the slobs, incidentally.
So I heard.
Makes no difference to me if they're only on commission. If they don't make good money, they're not giving us good representation, and we can't afford to have them around. Ever supervise salesmen?
Just myself.
That's right, you've had to supervise yourself. This place needs a sales manager. Somebody who's proved he's a salesman and can handle other salesmen. He'd have a lot of deadwood to clear out, new men to hire. What do you think?
Sounds like a good Idea.
I don't know offhand what your best year's been, we can look it up. The idea is, we'll top it by fifteen percent.
What? Me?
That's just the first year. If you aren't worth a lot more than that the second year, I'll kick you out. What do you say?
Well, uh... No.
No?
I can't take that job! I mean, I mean, I can't take it right away. I'm still recuperating, I just dropped in to say hello, see everybody 
I didn't realize. Yeah, you do look a little pale. How soon will you be ready? A week?
But you need a man right now. It wouldn't be fair to you to 
I take care of the beingfairtome department. Things've gone to hell this long, they can go a little longer.
Well...
See you in a week, Roy. I can call you Roy?
Oh, sure. Fine.
And I'm Perk. Short for Percy, I'm afraid.
Perk.
Good to have you back, Roy. I was just looking at 
Mr. Kaggs, I'm sorry.
You're turning me down? Makes no sense, Roy.
I guess I'm just not a leader of men.
Oh, come on, Roy.
The truth is, Mr. Kaggs 
Perk, remember?
Okay, fine. Perk, the truth is, I like things the way they are now. Pick my own hours, have time for, uh, other activities...
A wellrounded life. I respect that. But it has to have a center, Roy, something you care about, something you can think about.
Maybe I'm just not ready for that yet.
Well, Roy, if that's the way you feel, I won't badger you. Don't want to lose you as a salesman, too.
Oh, I'd like to stay on. Just keep everything the way it was.
That's what we'll do, then. But I tell you what, Roy. Before I hire anybody else, I'll ask you one last time. Fair enough?
Fair enough.
Mrs. Langtry, I'm sorry.
Why? What's wrong?
You are a valued customer, as you know.
But what's wrong?
I can't understand a thing like this. It's something you almost never see.
What is?
This is some of the finest filigreed platinum I've ever seen. But the stones, no. They're not diamonds, Mrs. Langtry.
But they must be! They cut glass!
Glass will cut glass, Mrs. Langtry. Do you know where it was purchased?
It was a gift. It isn't worth anything at all?
Why, of course it is. I can offer you  well, five hundred dollars.
All right.
I'll get you a check.
I hope you're not too badly disappointed with us, Mrs. Langtry.
It's not your fault.
You'll give us an opportunity to serve you again, I hope. If there's anything you think we might be interested in...
I have only one thing now. Are you interested?
Well, I'd have to see it, of course.
You are seeing it. You're looking right at it.
Bobo wants you to go on to Delmar.
Delmar? I never go out to California. That's a thousand miles from here.
Nine hundred. Bobo needs somebody to handle playback this time. Come on, Lilly, you don't argue with Bobo.
I know.
Take two, three days. Call when you get there.
Maybe I'll swing around Los Ang gleez on the way.
The ambulance is on the way, for what good it will do.
What? He's going to be all right!
Mrs. Dillon, your son was in some sort of accident. He's had an internal hemorrhage, he's bleeding to death inside.
Well, make it stop!
His blood pressure is under a hundred. I don't think he'll live to get to the hospital.
You know who I work for.
Yes, yes, but that's 
My son will be all right. If he isn't, I'll have you killed.
Well, that's what the law's for, isn't it?
And I don't just mean the SEC. We could have the FBI breathing down our necks.
I certainly hope not.
Loose talk is the one thing I worry about.
I can keep my mouth shut, Mister Fellowes.
The Tokyo Exchange is nine hours ahead of us, New York one hour behind. There isn't one hour of the day when both are open. Information moves, but it has to wait. Now, we have a young fellow working here  Do you know what a hacker is, Mister Hebbing?
One of those computer geniuses, isn't it?
You're right! And this boy tapped into that main link between Tokyo and the New York Stock Exchange. He can give us, when it's really useful, a seven second delay in that movement of information. Do you know what that means?
Well, you've got your information ahead of New York, I see that.
Every once in a while, a major change comes through. We have seven seconds to take advantage, put our buy order, our sell order, into the computer in New York before the Tokyo data comes in.
Not much time.
We have to be ready. We have to have the money, and we have to know what the information means, and we have to move immediately.
Seven seconds. I don't see how you do it.
These machines  They're in here.
Here you are! Two rich people!
I must admit, Mister Fellowes, I had moments I was worried.
You brought a case? Good.
Mary Beth, what we have here, uh...
Oh, I told Mister Hebbing all about it, how brilliant you are at making money for your special clients!
Mary Beth, I hope you aren't spreading this good news too widely.
Well, of course not! I know how dangerous this is. But I would trust Mister Hebbing with anything. Wouldn't I, darling?
Well, I'll have to take your word for it, Mary Beth. Here's your money.
Goody!
Henry, next time, couldn't Mister Hebbing 
Mary Beth! This has never been anything but 
Oh, I know, I know, and you've been wonderful since I was widowed. But Mister Hebbing has  you don't mind my telling him, darling   suffered reverses. If he could...
Well. If Mary Beth vouches for you, and if she told you the story already...
So here we are!
Mister Hebbing, we are talking about breaking the law here, I want to be sure you understand that. No one gets hurt, but the law does get broken.
Want a look?
Oh, Henry, no, that's just boring.
Come take a look. An entiresuite of mainframe computer.
We're not really interested, Henry.
You ruined me! You destroyed me!
Henry, no!
Cole, it'll be all right. Honey?
Can't move.
It's just the strain again, the stress. We'll take a vacation.
It's all hollow. Nothing behind it.
Demon! Demon! That's why you can walk on it! Demon!
Oh, Cole, please. Please come out of it. What would I do without you?
Your kid's in the back here. He's crying.
Roy? He's always crying.
The kids beat him up, because his home life is, uh, different.
I like you, too.
Come on, kid, let's see if there's any food in the house.
Hah.
Evening. Welcome to Phoenix.
Good evening. I'd like a single for tonight.
Oh, everything's the same size, same price.
I'm a very light sleeper, traffic noise keeps me wide awake all night.
Those trucks. I know exactly what you mean.
Do you have something around back, facing away from the road?
I'll put you in one thirtyone. Very quiet. Faces the desert.
Sounds perfect. I can park my car back there?
Right in front of the room.
Fine.
And I'll want to leave an early wakeup call.
No problem. My husband gets up the crack of dawn. It's his kidneys.
Hi, Bobo.
Did I buy you that dress, you piece of shit?
Well, I guess so. You're the guy I work for.
You work for me, huh? Then I just may flush you down the toilet. Drive me to the Durando.
How'd you figure you were gonna get away with that?
I'm not getting away with anything, Bobo.
You're fuckin right you're not. How much did your pals cut you in for on that nag, huh? Or did they give you the same kind of screwing you gave me?
I was down on that horse, Bobo. Not as much as I should have been, but there was a lot of action on those
One question. Do you want to stick to that story, or do you want to keep your teeth?
I want to keep my teeth.
Now I'll ask you another. You think I got no contacts out here? That nag paid off at just the opening price. There wasn't hardly a flutter on the tote board from the time the odds were posted. There ain't enough action to tickle the tote, but you claim a ten grand win! You send me ten thousand dollars, like I'm some mark you can blow off!
Bobo, no, I 
You wanna talk to me straight up?
My son 
Your what?
My son was in the hospital 
What the fuck are you doin with a son?
He left home a long time ago. He was in the hospital, up in Los Ang gleez, real sick.
Motherhood.
I never fucked up before, Bobo.
You expect me to buy this?
I got a lot of people work for me, Lilly. I can't have shit like this.
It'll never happen again. I swear.
It happened once. With me, that's making a habit of it.
You're calling the shots.
You got any kind of long coat in the car? Anything you can wear home over your clothes?
No.
I'll loan you a raincoat.
You ever hear about the oranges?
You mean, the insurance frammis?
Tell me about the oranges, Lilly.
You hit a person with the oranges in the towel, they get big, awful looking bruises, but they don't really get hurt, not if you do it right. It's for working scams against insurance companies.
And if you do it wrong?
It can louse up your insides. You can get puh, puh, puh...
What's that, Lilly?
Permanent damage.
You'll never shit right again.
Almost forgot. That ten grand of yours. It's in the envelope by the door.
Oh, thanks, Bobo.
You want a drink?
Gee, I better not, if it's okay. I still gotta drive back up to Los Anggleez.
See your son, huh? Well, that's nice. A side of you I didn't know, Lilly.
He's a good kid. A salesman.
On the square, huh? And how are you making out these days? Stealing much?
Not skimming a thing, Lilly?
Oh, well, you know. I just clip a buck here and a buck there. Not enough to notice.
That's right. Take a little, leave a little.
A person that don't look out for himself is too dumb to look out for anybody else. He's a liability, right, Bobo?
You're a thousand percent right!
Or else he's working an angle. If he doesn't steal a little, he's steeling big.
You know it, Lilly.
You know, I like that suit, Bobo. I don't know what there is about it, but it somehow makes you look taller.
Yeah? You really think so? A lot of people been telling me the same thing.
Well, you can tell them I said they're right. I better get going. Roy'll wonder where I am.
Worries about his mother, eh? Give him a hug for me.
I will. So long, Bobo.
Ach! Here you are, Doctor Zinnowitz.
Have I kept you waiting?
Waiting  I'm waiting for news from Manchester.
No news yet?
No. No word.
Everything depends on the Manchester merger.
I know  I know.
I saw Gerstenkorn at lunch  and as your lawyer I made it my business to broach the matter 
No news from Manchester yet  Do you think we ought to postpone the conference?
Good heavens no. That'd create the very worst impression. You must be optimistic. You must convince them. You know as well as I do that the merger must go through.
Yes  the merger must go through  But I am used to making my deals on a solid basis. I am not a liar. I am an honest business man  a good husband and father  I have a sense of honor  I have nothing to conceal. I couldn't live happily otherwise.
Well, don't get excited about it. We agreed that the merger with the Saxonia people must go through.
I want to dictate my statement for tomorrow. I can't speak without notes. I like to have things down before me in black and white.
I'll see you in the morning then, at the conference. Everything'll be all right, Preysing... Don't worry. Goodnight.
Good night.
Good morning, gentlemen  I see the conference is already underway.
Oh, here you are, Justice Zinnowitz  I'm at crosspurposes with these gentlemen  will you clear up the situation?
But the situation is perfectly clear, If you will allow me 
I can make no statement about Manchester at this time.
Well  gentlemen.
Next week.
You let me talk till I'm hoarse and you had Manchester sewedup all the time. Why?
What's the matter with you?
Bluff  Bluff  all bluff.
What's bluff?
That.
'Deal with Manchester definitely off! "Preysing, oh  I'd never have thought it of you.
No one would have thought it of me. I've been getting rusty in Fredersdorf. Well, if bluff is what the world wants I guess I can put up as big a bluff as anyone. From now on...
You must go to Manchester at once yourself and really see it through.
Yes  I must go to England  I was desperate  Now I don't care  This sort of thing goes to a man's head.
What you need is some relaxation.
Yes  that's what I want  I'd like to tear loose  I'd like a drink. I'd like to go down to that dancing place. I'd like to start something.
I can understand that  after your  uh 
Say it  say it  my lie  it's the first time in thirty years that I've ever... Where's that stenographer? Miss Flaemm...
What do you want with her?
I want to see her, I want to do some dictating  report of the conference for my fatherinlaw.
She had an engagement in the Yellow Room at five o'clock  she was in a hurry.
Zinnowitz, would you say she was pretty?
Pretty as a picture.
Let's go down and find her  I need a drink  Come along Zinnowitz. I don't know anything about women  been married for twentysix years.
Bluff does it, Preysing, bluff does it. Goodnight.
We will wait.
You are late. Hurry.
How is the house?
Terrible. After this, no more ballets for me. Jazz  Just jazz.
If the house is empty again, I don't know 
When she gets her paint on and hears the music  she'll be all right. I know these people.
What's the use of asking, Gru  he is at the train  He will be there.
The troupe, the scenery, everything  all on board, waiting. You have a rehearsal in Vienna tomorrow morning. Come, Madam, are you mad?
Four minutes past. Please come.
Come, Lisaveta, he will be there  he will be there.
Madam Grusinskaya's car.
If you will wait one moment, sir.
I won't wait  I can't wait  I waited three days before I got a room at all and what a room that is.
It's a very nice room and inexpensive, sir.
Did I say I wanted a cheap room to live in  when I came here did I ask for a cheap room? Did I?
Just one moment, sir.
No, I won't wait  I can't  Every day is precious  every hour  Every minute.
The gentleman is dissatisfied with room number five fiftynine.
I certainly have a complaint  and a fair one.
I wish you a very good evening, Mr. Preysing. You are staying here, too, Mr. Preysing?
I don't know you.
Oh  you must know me  Kringelein at the plant. Assistant bookkeeper, building C, room twentythree  third floor.
Mr. Kringelein will be a good friend and not accept your invitation to dance.
I could not think of not accepting.
You say that you are employed by us in Fredersdorf, and here you are in Berlin, indulging in diversions which ill befit your position and which are very much beyond your means  Quite extraordinary, Mr. Kringelein, I think we will look into your books.
Well now, Miss Flaemm, we can talk.
Some champagne, Miss Flaemm?
You may go, Mr. Kringelein.
Does the world belong to you, Mr. Preysing?
What is this insolence?
Do you think you have free license to be insulting? Believe me you have not. You think you're superior, but you're quite an ordinary man.
Go away  go away.
Who are you?  An embezzler most likely.
An embezzler  you're going to take that back, right here in the presence of this young lady  who do you think you're talking to? You think I'm dirt, if I'm dirt, you're a lot dirtier, Mr. Industrial Magnate Preysing.
You're discharged.
Me?
Yes you  shut your mouth  get out  you're discharged.
Oh  the Baron  the Baron.
He tried to rob me  he is dead 
My best friend  poor, Baron  dead  just like that.
 We must do something...
Yes, the police must be called.
No  no  wait  the man was a burglar  he was going to steal my money.
Oh, no  no  not the Baron.
Where is that girl  she was working with him  she enticed me into her room.
Her room  oh  I see, Mr. Preysing  I understand, Mr. General Director Preysing.
I can answer for this, it was self defense  I can answer for this  but that girl  the scandal  my wife  my daughters, you know them?
Yes, I know them 
The scandal  we are men  you  you could take that affair of the young lady upon yourself  take her and hold your tongue. Then you can travel  I'll give you anything  anything  she was with you.
We must call the police, your excellency.
How much  how much do you want  you need money  you have nothing.
Don't worry about me, Mr. General Director Pryesing  worry about yourself. There has been a murder  this is room one sixtyfour.
Mr. Kringelein will take room number oneseventysix, one of our most expensive rooms. It is large and on the front with bath.
Does that mean that the bath is my own?  Private?
Certainly, sir.
Well, now, that's very kind  thanks. That's what I want  a large room on the front with a private bath  Yes, that's what I want. I can pay now if you like.
Will Mr. Kringelein kindly register.
Again?
Please.
It is time for the performance.
The performance  the performance  the performance.
It is not stage fright  it's something more 
What  what is it? Last night...
Last night?... There was no applause.
There was  there was.
That theatre  half empty  dancing for those few  I was frantic  I finished  the last beat and... ...I waited  I listened  but the applause didn't come  nothing. A man in the box  and just the claques behind  it is passed, Pimenov. We are dead  it's finished.
Good morning, Pimenov.
Good morning, Gru  your 
Gru  you are positively radiant.
Yes, Pimenov. One minute, Suzette, I will call you.
He will be on the train.
But when did he go? How do you know?
What is this that you have cancelled your car? Who am I that I should wait like a fool at the door? And here on a whim, you cancel your car. Have you forgotten there is a performance? Do you know the time? Or, are we all mad? Am I your manager?... Have we a contract? Have we obligations? Am I blind? ...Or is that the time?
I'm cancelling the engagement.
Oh!
Oh! Madam is cancelling the engagement. Madam has chosen a funny time for such a funny joke. Ha, ha, ha  hurry, come on. Tonight  there's a line in front of the theatre since six o'clock. The house is jammed to the roof.
The house is not full  Is it really full?
Packed to the ceiling. Hurry  get dressed. And what an audience  the French Ambassador  American Millionaires  Princess Ratzville  er  er 
Oh  but it can't be.
Suzette  I told you not to bring the pearls. I will not wear them tonight.
Why not?
Take them back, Suzette.
You haven't time.
Hurry, Suzette.
Such nonsense.
I suppose I can cancel the Vienna engagement.
I wish to be alone.
You'll be very much alone, my dear madame. This is the end.
Come along, oh, Madam, come along. The train will be going.
Wait a minute. I've got to ask myself.
Oh, the sun  it will be sunny in Tremezzo 
Every seat for the opening has been sold at Vienna. Sold out for three days.
I know  I know  but it will be sunny in Tremezzo. We'll have a guest then.
Always the performance  every day the performance  time for the performance. I think, Suzette, I have never been so tired in my life. Veronal didn't even help me to sleep.
Madam Grusinskaya's car is to be brought.
I can't dance tonight 
It will pass  it will pass  come.
Let us cancel the engagement.
But, Madam. cannot do that.
Now is the time to cancel to stop entirely. I feel it  everything tells me  enough  enough.
Mon Dieu  the pearls  if they were to break 
The pearls won't break  they hold together and bring me bad luck  I hate them!
Orchids come again, Madam  no card  I think perhaps they are from the same young man  he is at the end of the corridor  tall  he walks like a soldier  Madam must have noticed how often he is in the elevator with us. Last night for instance 
Oh, Suzette  Suzette  Sshh  quiet.
Ah, oui  the car is here for Madam.
Send it away  I shan't need it.
Oh, come, Madam  please come.
All right, Suzette  quickly  hurry.
Good morning, Suzette.
Good morning, Madam.
Madam has slept well?
Oh, yes, Suzette.
Madam will dress now, it is late.
Five minutes, Suzette, come back in five minutes. I'll ring.
Yes, madam Suzette knows all about it.
Madam should sleep.
I've done my hair differently  do you like that?
When a lady falls in love she does her hair differently.
In the middle of the night  those flowers make me think of a funeral. Laurels and tuberoses. Oh, think, Suzette  the Villa and the sun at Tremezzo  quiet  simple  happy  we'll have a guest, Suzette.
Yes, Madam. And now Madam will sleep. It is not long 'till the train.
Goodnight, Suzette.
Madam, it is Mr. Meierheim  he is waiting downstairs.
Where is Pimenov? Where is Pimenov?
Ninethirty, Mr. Preysing keeps us waiting.
He likes to play the great man.
Shall I tell them again?
Why waste time  it's getting late.
You see  what we are interested in 
Ah, come on  we're going home.
You're a deep one.
In that case give us the articles. We'll sign at once. We know all the details...
How clear is Manchester?
Foggy  frightfully foggy, always, I'm told. Have you said anything about Manchester, Mr. Preysing?
Since, on the eleventh of June of this year  when the first negotiations for a merger...
Thank God we're beginning at the beginning.
As you remember it  when you approached us...
We did not approach you.
...and let me say again for the tenth time... ...you people were quite ready for the merger. You declared yourselves... fully agreed on all the terms  Why should the signing of these articles be suddenly held up?
I've admitted that at one time we had reason for desiring ther merger  What reason have we now? The Preysing Company has fallon upon evil days, very evil days.
Mr. Preysing has too scrupulous a regard for certainties...
You've talked enough today, you're hoarse now.
Here's my signature  here Preysing, sign here.
What a session this has been.
What?
They turn out marvelous material in Manchester.
Manchester  yes. Yes, yes, they do. Yes  Now gentlemen shall we begin at the beginning?  Have we cigars  water and everything?
There's a lot of business to be done with the Manchester Cotton Company. They've the whole English market right in their hands. Have you any connections with  Manchester?
We have a good many connections in England, naturally.
I mean with the Manchester people?
We are here to discuss our merger. Naturally I can make no statement at this time. We must begin at the beginning.
All right.
Since, on the eleventh of June, this year  when the first negotiations for a merger between our respective firms was entered into  both parties have fully agreed that this merger can result only in mutual advantages.
Oh  yes  I beg your pardon!
I'm laying before you the last general statement of our concern. Active capital, plant and machinery, raw material and finished product  for instance  mop rags 
Mop rags !
I'd like to wait for Justice Zinnowitz, before I commit myself.
Oh  Preysing, Preysing 
No water  What a place!
All you have to do is phone for it.
Now to proceed with the projected merger, the advantages for the Saxonia are so obvious...
Oh  now let's talk like adults. You want to tell us now a along story of what your factory can do. We know all that you could tell us and if you tell the truth it wouldn't sound so good. When you first approached us...
We did not approach you.
Tentative my foot  a month before this your old fatherinlaw came very privately and scratched at my door.
Scratched  We did not take the initiative.
Of course you took the initiative.
I know you did  I said you did 
And I said we didn't.
Evil days  I've shown you here   my company exports to the Balkans alone, sixtyfive thousand marks worth of mop rags a year.
Mop rags  mop rags  we're interested in something quite different!
What?
Sorry, Preysing.
You've decided against the merger?
Yes 
Then, it's all over?
Yes 
Goodbye, Preysing, I hope you pull through. This is a very bad time to be in such a crisis. We've...
Why talk  it's over  it's over  it's finished. You've broken off negotiations. You did it. You're calling them off. You had nothing on your mind all day, but Manchester,  Manchester  Manchester. You don't suppose for one moment that I'm such a fool as not to have something that I could say definitely about Manchester.
What?
Oh no  no  the session is over. Let's go, it's off. Thank you, gentlemen.
If you actually have news from Manchester then...
Gentlemen, I am now free to announce... ...that the deal between my firm and the Manchester Cotton Company has been successfully negotiated.
Preysing, you're joking with us.
I thought we'd suspended negotiations, gentlemen.
Under these circumstances it's quite a different matter.
Under these circumstances we might refuse to sign.
See you soon, Preysing. Next week we'll meet and discuss further details.
Next week.
And ask me what it's costing us to hammer it down.
Exactly.
If the Preysing people get the Manchester contract, we shall certainly merge with the Preysing company  but if they haven't they're ruined  Preysing will have to declare himself.
Shhh  here he is now.
Oh  ho  you want legal aid against us?  The whole thing seems to me to be very simple.
Very simple  I've always liked the way you dressed, Preysing  English, isn't it?
What we want to know about is Manchester.
Yes, Mr. Preysing  that's what we want to know.
What...! 
I'm the stenographer.
Then you will please wait outside.
Moreover 
Moreover 
Moreover...
Moreover...
Do you work in Justice Zinnowitz' office?
No  only occasional jobs.
Tired?
You pay me.
You're a very unusual stenographer 
Moreover...
Moreover...
I don't see why it's unusual for a stenographer to be pretty  if she does her work well,  seems so silly. I don't know why they don't like girls like me in offices. Personally, I hate offices  I'd much rather be in the movies.
Movies?
Yes, I photograph very well. Look 
What is this?
I got ten marks for that.
You...
Me.
You...
Moreover...
What?
Only in mutual advantages  moreover.
What brown hands you have.
That's from skiing.
Skiing?
Yes... A man I know took me to Switzerland last month...
A man?  To Switzerland?  That must have been nice  for him.
Only in mutual advantages  moreover...
Moreover... He was a lucky man  that man.
Perhaps.
Don't misunderstand me. I'm a married man  with grownup daughters. Uh 
Moreover  Do you mind if I smoke? I went to Florence once, too.
With the same friend?
No.
Moreover, the possibility of the successful termination of negotiations now pending with the Manchester Cotton Company...
Not too quickly.
What?
You're a little too fast.
Can't you understand me?
I understand you perfectly.
Have you got it now?
Cotton Company 
Should throw a great weight into the balance...
...weight into the balance...
How nice  your daughters?
My daughters  yes, my daughters.
Is that Mrs. Preysing.
Definitely off.
Oh  too bad. Did you quarrel?
That'll be all  be here tomorrow at nine o'clock.
Miss Flaemm.
Hello!
I must speak with you, Miss Flaemm.
Presently, Mr. Preysing.
It's urgent.
Come and dance with me, Mr. Kringelein.
I must speak to you, Miss Flaemm  business.
Tomorrow morning.
No  now.
Do you gentlemen know each other, Mr. Kringelein  Mr. Preysing  Baron von Gaigern.
Now, children, no fighting  save that for the office. Let's have our dance.
I'll remember you, Mr. Kringelein.
Oh, yes, Mr. Preysing?
Sit here. Cognac  for you?
Nothing.
I'm going to keep an eye on that Kringelein fellow. I'll find out where he gets the money to hang around the Grand Hotel.
Well  you want me?
Yes.
Well?
I must go to England  at once.
Well?
You see, I'd like to take a secretary with me for my correspondence and  humm  humm  for company on the trip  I'm nervous  I need somebody  I don't know if you quite understand me. You said you have travelled with gentlemen  and I mean 
I understand perfectly.
What do you think your salary would be  for such a trip?
Wait  I must figure it up. First, I'll need  clothes  shoes  it's cold in England in March, I'll need a suit... You'd want me to look nice?
Of course  of course.
A thousand marks 
It's agreed  I will get a room here for you.
Can you pay some attention to me?
Oh, yes.
Insolent young cub!
You mean Baron von Gaigern?
Baron!
Well, he's a gentleman!
You are late. I've been waiting for you  waiting.
I had to arrange about the trip.
You're sweet.
You think so?
Come here.
Here, hold up!
Oh  careful, Mr. Preysing.
Call me  do you know  would you  would you like to call me by my first name?
Oh, no.
Why not?
I couldn't do that, you're a stranger to me.
You're a funny little creature, Flaemmchen. I can't make you out.
It's not funny at all. One can't get intimate just off hand. I could go to England with you and everything like that  supposing I met you next year and I said: 'How do you do, Mr. Preysing! And you said: 'That was the young lady who was my secretary in Manchester'.
If I could trouble the Baron to come and see this beautiful room. I have ordered champagne. Perhaps the Baroness could join us.
Waiter, oh waiter! Wait a minute! We are having caviar  it's expensive but that makes no difference  I see the Baroness is laughing.
Have caviar if you like, but it tastes like herring to me.
You may laugh. Caviar and champagne may mean nothing to you, but to me  they mean a great deal. You see, I'm ill and all of a sudden I got a fear of missing life. I don't want to miss life  do you understand?
You are funny. You speak of life as if it were a train you wanted to catch.
Yes  and for me, it's going to leave at any minute. Let's drink.
I'm sure this beautiful room must appeal to your taste  distinctive, don't you think? Velvet upholstery  'Anumber one'. I'm in the textile trade and I know. And these are real silk drapes.
Silk  think of that  silk  they are, too.
Have you seen the bathroom?  Hot and cold running water  You see, I can get a bath whenever I like.
Her master's voice! I must go now  goodbye  thanks.
Oh, don't go.
I'm engaged for the evening.
Oh, can anyone engage you for the evening?
To take dictation  a Mr. Preysing  Goodbye, you  tomorrow at five o'clock.
Good evening, Mr. Kringelein  Where's the Baron?
I'm waiting for him here. The Baron and I have been together all day. A hundred miles an hour  in a motor car  and in an aeroplane  It was marvelous 
Mr. Kringelein  How you have changed, you look so nice.
Oh, thank you, Miss Flaemm. Oh, please, Miss Flaemm  Permit me, Miss Flaemm, won't you have something sweet  a Louisiana flip. A Louisiana flip.
No  absinthe.
Yes  that 
You like music?
Yes  it's stimulating  a man might 
A man might what?
I don't know  I'd like to do anything 
Oh  you would!
Dance then?
She's beautiful  isn't she?
You must look at my face and not at the floor.
Yes.
You're trembling.
I never danced before  in public.
You dance splendidly.
I'm happy, Miss Flaemm.
Really?
For the first time in my life, I'm happy.
Please  please!
You don't like to see me enjoying myself.
Quick  Mr. Kringelein.
Oh  what  what 
Oh  oh, Miss Flaemmchen. It's you 
Quick  something awful  awful has happened. Go  go at once,  Mr. Preysing 
Preysing?
What's the matter?
Oh  I was thinking  Poor Baron  Lying there, his eyes so open.
You loved the Baron, didn't you?
Yes 
So did I. He was friendly to me as no man ever was.
Perhaps he really was a burglar  But they don't kill a man for that.
He was in desperate straits. He'd been trying to raise money all day. He laughed  Poor devil! And then a man like Preysing kills him.
I didn't like Preysing right off.
Then why did you have anything to do with him?
Money!
Yes, of course,  money!
You don't understand that do you?
Of course I do  I never knew what money really meant till I started spending it. Do you know  I can hardly believe that anything so beautiful should come to me from Preysing  I'll take care of you. Will  will you let me?
What?
You'll have a good time with me. Want to? I've got enough money. Ten thousand two hundred in my pocketbook. Three thousand four hundred that I won. It will last a long time. I can win more  we'll travel.
Yes  to Paris? I wanted to go there always.
Wherever you like. Here I'll give you the money I won, three thousand four hundred. Later you can have more.
Later?
When I  I'm ill, Flaemmchen  It will not be long  I'll not last long. Will you stay with me until...
Nonsense! We'll find a great doctor, he'll cure you. They can cure anything these days.
Do you believe that you will have a better time with me than you would with Preysing?
Oh yes, of course.
Do you like me better?
You're a good man, Mr. Kringelein  a very good man.
Am I!
Is the bill ready  the lady's too?
How do you know there is a Grand Hotel?
Oh, there must be one in Paris... They have everything in Paris.
I came here from a long distance to stay at the Grand Hotel. I want a room  a big room  like you would give General Director Preysing  I'm as good as Mr. Preysing  I can pay like Mr. Preysing  would you give him a little room, way up in the corner with the hot water pipes going  bang  bang  bang...
This gentleman can have my room.
Oh!
Send his bags up to my room.
Oh  but  I 
You're tired. I can see that.
Yes  yes  I am tired. I have been ill...
You are ill.
I know  I know  when a man's collar is an inch too big for him  I know he is ill.
Yes  Oh  oh  yes, 
You will stay, Doctor  if you have nothing better to do?
I have nothing better to do, Mr. Kringelein.
Oh, but Doctor. Isn't this wonderful. To live  to live  in the Grand Hotel.
The Grand Hotel.
Oh, but Doctor. The music  the champagne  girls when they dance  all the shining ice in those big silver things  That's life 
Life!  Mr. Kringelein, you are drunk  good night.
But Doctor 
Life is changing you, Mr. Kringelein.
Yes, thanks to the Baron. The best shops, the very best. Look, Doctor, silk  feels so nice on the skin... a London hat, see  made in England, that's silk, too  fifty marks... Look, the price is on it. That was half my salary before. The Baron is a very fine gentleman  no one in my life has been so nice to me as the Baron.
No pain, Mr. Kringelein?
Pain? Oh, no, Doctor. I think if I had pain I'd be too happy to notice it...
Barman  whiskey  For you, Mr. Kringelein?
For me?  Oh, please, something sweet and cold.
Well, Mr. Kringelein, are you getting what you're looking for?
What, Doctor?
A masculine paradise  drink, the ladies, dancing...
I had a very good opportunity, a young lady asked me to dance  I ought to be able to dance, it seems to be very important.
You must learn as quickly as your time allows  Believe me Mr. Kringelein, a man who isn't with a woman is a dead man.
Haven't you anyone  Haven't you anybody  you  I mean  Are you all alone in the world.
I'm always alone  I have been everything.
Everything?
I was sent as a military surgeon to South Africa. Stinking climate. Taken prisoner. Home on parole not to fight. I was a surgeon in the Great War till the end. Grenade in the face. Carried diphtheria bacilli in the wound until 1920. Isolated two years. I've been everything.
Excuse me, gentlemen.
I'll take the bank  All right, gentlemen.
Over  over so soon  it has just begun. Oh, the pain.
Try and sleep, Kringelein, don't be afraid.
I'd like to live a little longer but  I'm not afraid to die  I'm not...
There is no pocketbook here... On the floor probably.
More than fourteen thousand marks... were in that pocketbook.
Fourteen thousand marks... One can travel  one's happiness might depend on fourteen thousand marks  don't you think so, Baron?
Oh, I've got to find it.
Stay where you are.
No  I must find it  Fourteen thousand two hundred marks.
You've nothing to fear, Kringelein
No.
Any letters?
No, Doctor.
Telegrams?
No, Doctor.
Anyone asked for me?
Nobody, Doctor.
Any letters?
No, doctor.
Is that for me?
No  Madam Grusinskaya's car is to be brought.
Madam Grusinskaya's car is to be brought.
For me?
No  Madam Grusinskaya's car is not to be brought.
Madam Grusinskaya's car is not to be brought.
For me?
No  letters to twoeighty.
If a young woman, a stenographer,  etc.
The stenographer is to go up  Mr. Preysing telephoned.
Mr. Preysing  one sixtyfour.
Madam Grusinskaya  at once 
Your chauffeur's been waiting, Baron.
The night clerk has already gone  you are late.
Man  I was at the clinic the whole night  there are no words to describe what my wife suffered.
And the child isn't coming?
No  no  not yet. Well, I mustn't let it interfere with my duty. Any news here?
News? Yes  killing in number one sixtyfour.
What?  Who?  Whom?
The big manufacturer killed Baron von Gaigern.
Good heavens. What for?
I don't know.
Man  that's terrible. He was a nice fellow  I am sorry about him.
It seems that he was a thief and an imposter.
I don't believe it  he was a real gentleman. I know people... I'm so tired I can hardly see out of my eyes. No sleep for two nights and so many duties and now this killing in the hotel  that means a lot of work. But it's too bad about the Baron, you always felt better when he came along  always friendly  such an agreeable fellow.
Most imposters are 
Pardon me, the lady has urgent business here with me.
Insolent  Berlin manners.
Oh, let the poor devil alone.
I did not ask your advice.
I think it would be much better if you went away.
We shall see who remains here the longer.
As you will.
Aha!  The Baron. What do you want here?
I must have made a mistake.
Made a mistake  remarkable. We shall soon see if you made a mistake. Stay here... Give me that money.
So that's how we stand, Baron.
Look here, sir  I'm completely at your mercy  I'm desperate  it's a matter of life or death  I had to get some money  tonight.
Indeed you must, Baron  you must. Humm  humm, but you must go to jail, Baron, you're a thief.
Be quiet.
I'm going to call the police. I'm going to watch you play the great Baron with the police. Aristocrat! Aristocrat!
Hello! Hello! 
Don't do that.
Good evening  my key  one sixty eight.
Good evening, Mr. Pimenov.
Oh  good evening, Baron.
How's the beautiful lady?
Grusinskaya  well, to tell the truth, Baron  tonight we are a little bit nervous. Were you at the theatre last night?
Certainly  always when Grusinskaya dances.
Well  last night was not so good.
I thought she was splendid!
Yes  but the audience.
It's always so quiet here.
If you occupied the room next to Madam Grusinskaya, you would appreciate the quiet of a hotel lobby.
My dear sir, I would gladly change rooms with you.
No doubt you would, Baron. But do you know, I'm quite indispensable to her. I'm her ballet master and her nurse. I hardly belong to myself anymore. But, there you are, it's Grusinskaya  you can't help adoring her.
The war.
That is Doctor Otternschlag  You know him?
Yes  He always seems to be waiting for something  and nothing ever comes.
The war dropped him here and forgot him.
Yes, I was in the war.
Perhaps you could present me now, Mr. Pimenov.
Please, Baron  forgive me  not now  here she is.
Thank you, sir.
Not at all, sir.
Permit me  my name is Kringelein  from Fredersdorf.
I'm Baron von Gaigern.
Oh, a Baron!
And this is Doctor Otternschlag.
Oh  Doctor  you are a Doctor  I am 
What's the matter, Mr. Kringelein?
General Director Preysing! Baron, when I was sixteen years old, I started as an office boy in that man's factory 
Then you know him?
Do I know him  I know him through and through.
Baron, we must have gone a hundred miles an hour, at least...
Yes, quite.
We've been together all day... and in an aeroplane.
I'm going to change and we'll meet for a drink in the Yellow Room.
In the Yellow Room, where the music's playing and the ladies are?
Where the music's playing and the ladies are...
Hello  sorry I'm late.
Oh  here you are, Baron. A drink  A Louisiana flip?
Hello, Mr. Kringelein. How do you feel now?
A little strange, Baron.
A drink, Baron  A Louisiana flip?
No thanks  keeping my head clear.
The Baron is tired?
No, Kringelein, not tired,  just  Well  well 
Perhaps this evening, Baron, we could go to the Casino  the place we passed with the marvelous bright lights?
I'd like to Kringelein, but I can't  I am broke!
Broke  A Baron? But, Baron 
Was the Baron joking, or is it really true that the Baron is  in financial straits.
Absolutely true, Kringelein and I have to raise some money immediately.
If the Baron  if you would permit me 
What?
I would be awfully glad to oblige, you've been so decent to me. Three hundred?
If I could get into a game I might win some.
Gambling! I'd like that. I have over six thousand eight hundred marks with me.
If we could scare up some men to play.
We could come to my room.
Good!
Ready, Kringelein?
Ready, Baron.
Is that too much, Baron?
No  not at all.
All right then.
All right then.
That was my last.
You've lost everything?
I've no luck.
Pardon me, Baron. Permit me again...
Drink to me, Kringelein  it's my last chance.
I do drink, Baron  I drink to you, Baron and to win. It's good,  come along, Baron.
I take five hundred.
All of that at once, Baron?
Here  here it is. Here's your pocketbook, Kringelein.
Oh  yes  that's it  you found it  you found it for me, Baron.
Goodnight, Kringelein.
No  no please  oh, don't go  don't go  don't leave me alone, Baron.
You're all right now  it's very late  goodnight, Kringelein.
Oh, no, stay here, Baron  stay.
Please do not be frightened, Madam.
What do you want here?
Nothing  only to be here.
Why do you hide in my room?
But surely you must know  because I love you.
Because you love me  you love me?
Poor little Grusinskaya! Does it do you good to cry? Are you afraid? Shall I go?
I was so alone  always alone  and suddenly you were there and said that. No. I am not afraid. It is strange.
Don't cry  it tears my heart to see you sob like that.
Nerves  just nerves. You must forgive me. I have had a bad evening. I am very tired. Do you know what it is to be tired  tired of a routine existence?
I'm afraid not  I usually do just what I feel like doing at the moment.
So you feel like coming into a lady's room  and you come... What now?
I'd like to smoke a cigarette.
Certainly.
Why do you look at me like that?
I did not know you were so beautiful... and 
And then ?
No irony. You're so appealing  so soft  so tired. I feel like taking you in my arms and not letting anything more happen to you  ever.
And  and 
How tired you are!
Yes  tired...
So alone.
Alone. All alone. Oh, you strange  strange creature.
You mustn't talk Russian to me.
Strange man...
Am I quite strange to you?
Not quite strange now. It is as if I had been expecting you. You know, once when the Grand Duke was alive, I found a man hiding in my room  a young officer 
And...?
He disappeared. Later he was found dead.
I never knew it was so dangerous to hide in a woman's room when she's alone.
Go away. Who are you ?
A man who could love  that is all, who has forgotten everything else for you.
You could love me. It is so long since I have heard that word. Nobody has loved me for a long time. It is so icycold to be famous. One is so cruelly alone. How is it that you  Let me look at you. Your hands. Your eyes. Why could you love me?
I saw you just now  then I saw you cry  and now I see you in the mirror  Grusinskaya...
Grusinskaya... Oh  oh if you knew how I slaved and slaved for Grusinskaya  for the success of Grusinskaya  for the triumph of Grusinskaya... and what is she now? Just someone who has found that on the day success ceases life ceases  Are you listening to me  Do you understand?  I want you to understand.
Yes  I do understand.
I think you must go now  the key is on the floor.
I'm not going  You know I'm not going  Let me stay here?
I want to be alone.
That is not so  you don't want to be alone.
I want to be alone 
No  You don't want to be alone at all  You were in despair before  If I left you, you'd feel worse than you did before, You must not be alone  You mustn't cry  you must forget... Tell me that I can stay with you  tell me.
Just for a minute then.
The stage frays one's nerves... the discipline  it's so exacting. Discipline means doing what you don't want to do and take no pleasure in doing. Do you know what I mean? Have you ever experienced the weariness that comes from discipline?
I?  Oh, no. I do only what I take pleasure in doing.
I see  you do only what you take pleasure in doing. You take pleasure in coming into a woman's bedroom and you come. You take pleasure in a dangerous climb onto a balcony, so you do it... And what is your pleasure now?
I should like to smoke.
Why do you smile?
Because I can see something in the mirror that you cannot. My dear 
What can you see?
You are beautiful!
No.
Beautiful but so sad. I did not know it was so dangerous to look into a woman's bedroom.
I'm not going... You know that I'm not going... Do you think I could leave you alone here? After that ?
What?
The veronal  you. I'm going to stay here with you.
I want to be alone.
That is not the truth. You do not want to be alone  you're afraid of being alone  I know you're afraid. I know you. You were desperate, just now, if I go away you'll be more desperate than ever. Say I am to stay with you... say it.
Oh  I was ambitious then  ambition was in my blood  no rest, no stopping. We were drilled like little soldiers  We danced in the school of the Imperial Ballet, in St. Petersburg. I was little and slim but hard as diamond  a duty machine  No rest, no stopping. And then  I became famous and whoever is famous is alone... But why should I be telling you this? Last night I did not know you at all  who are you, really?  I do not even know your name.
I am Felix Benvenuto von Gaigern. My mother called me Flix.
Flix.  And how do you live? What kind of a person are you?
I'm a prodigal son, the black sheep of a white flock  I shall die on the gallows.
Really?
Really, I haven't a bit of character. None at all.
No?
When I was a little boy I was taught to ride and be a gentleman  at school, it was a monastery, I learned to pray and lie  and 
And?
And then, in the war, to kill and hide. That's all.
And what do you do  now?
I'm a gambler  I'm running at large like a happy pig, devouring anything of life that pleases me, I really belong in jail
Oh! What a picture  and what else?
I'm also a criminal and a hotel thief.
That's a silly joke.
Please look at me. You must believe me  you must believe that I love you  that I have never known what love is  until last night.
What is the matter?
There.
Oh 
You may keep the pearls  I don't want them any more  I'll make you a present of them.
I don't want them now.
I'll not denounce you.
I know.
So 
Yesterday I was a thief  but now, 
But now, you must go... I give you the pearls. But now you must go 
I wanted money desperately  Can you understand?  That's why I wanted the pearls. I was threatened  I was desperately in need of a certain big sum of money. I've been following you  I've admired you. But I have forced myself not to think about you  Last night, at last, I managed to came into your room and  and now.
And now?
I couldn't go through with it. Remarkable.
Do you understand?
Yes  yes  yes.
Grusinskaya 
Yes.
You do believe that I really love you?
Yes  If I didn't believe that, I'd die after last night.
I want to be good to you  madly good.
Suzette will be back here in a minute.
I'll go  goodbye.
Shall I see you again?
I 
Suzette will be back here any minute.
When are you leaving Berlin?
Very early in the morning.
For Vienna?
Can't  can't you  Couldn't you come too  I think it would be better  for us  for us both.
Oh  yes but  later.
Why later?
I have no money now  I must get some first  I must get some.
I'll give you what you need  I have money.
Oh no  that would spoil everything. I'll  I will manage somehow  I'll manage myself. I will go with you. When does the train leave?
Six twentyseven in the morning... But the money?
Never mind  I'll get it. I have a whole day. I'll be on that train.
You must go now. Be careful on your way to your room.
I'll go.  I love you. I'll be on that train. I'll get the money.
Don't do anything foolish  I'm alarmed about you.
Don't worry. I'll be on the train. He leaves.
Bless you...
Are you coming to the theatre? Oh  I shall dance tonight  How I shall dance  I want to feel that you are in the theatre.
I can't.
No?
No! I can't explain now. Oh, look  the pearls. You wear them now...
Why do you think 
Why?
They've brought me such good luck  you 
I'm worried about you.
Don't.
On the train?
Yes  I will be on the train.
Till then.
Bless you 
Like dancing?
Not with strangers.
Never?
You're a fool!
Yes, I am rather.
He must be very nice.
Who?
Whoever is keeping you waiting.
Have you seen it?
Oh, my large and noisy neighbor  really? That?
That.
You?
Oh  work!!
Oh!
Dictation. You know...
Oh... poor child. If you were free, I'd ask you to come and have some tea  but 
Tea would spoil my dinner. One meal a day, I'd hate to spoil it.
Reducing?
No  why?  should I?
Lord no  charming  but why one meal a day?
Money  Ever heard of it?
Yes  yes indeed  but you are a... ...a stenographer. Don't little stenographers earn little pennies?
Very little.
Too bad.
Did you ever see a stenographer with a decent frock on?  One that she'd bought herself?
Poor child  I wish I were free tonight  we could 
Aren't you?
What?
Free 
Unfortunately no  to bad  tomorrow though.
Tomorrow? What time tomorrow?
Shall we say five o'clock  downstairs?
Where downstairs?
Yellow Room where they dance 
You're very funny 
Yes?  Tomorrow?
Of course.
Really?
We'll dance.
All right. We'll dance.
I'd given you up.
Sorry.
Chasing around.
Chasing what?
Money.
You were very different yesterday.
Yesterday  yes  that was yesterday.
That was lovely.
Will you do me a big favor?
I'll do anything for you.
Would you like to make a man happy?
Yes  I'd love to.
Then dance the next number with Kringelein.
Why?
I feel sorry for him.
You're not a bit like you were yesterday.
I fell in love last night  the real thing.
Oh  there's no real thing  it doesn't exist.
I thought that, too  but I found that it does. Come along, dance with Kringelein.
Anything for you.
Going?
Yes 
Flaemmchen, what are you doing here in the middle of the night.
Looking for my room  one sixty six.
You live here?
For tonight.
Oh!
Yes  oh!
Well  such is life, Flaemmchen.
And Baron, thanks so much for everything.
Have you a minute now?
No  I told you not to come in this lobby.
Time's getting short.
I've told you a hundred times not to speak to me with a cigarette in your mouth.
I want to speak 
Not now.
Yes, sir.
You are late  the dancer's gone to the theatre.
Well?
She's gone to the theatre  don't you know?
Yes.
And what are you going to do?
The pearls are in her room.
Now listen to me. The others are getting suspicious of you. I was on the telephone to Amsterdam today, they think you're scared.
I've been careful, I've been waiting my chance.
You've been waiting your chance. You're too much of a gentleman  that's the trouble with you.
I told you I'll get the pearls tonight.
Need any help?
No.
Have you got that skeleton key?
No 
Why?
The floor clerk is out there in the corridor  she sees everything 
I could take care of her.
How?
Chloroform on a handkerchief from behind  while you...
No  no  no  no...
Why?
Poor girl  chloroform would give her a rotten headache... I know  I had it in the war. Besides, she's very pretty  not young but 
You're no good for this business. It's just a joke to you...
I don't like your tone.
No 
Get out and leave it to me... be ready to leave on the night train for Amsterdam...
With the pearls?
With the pearls 
I've quit.
You can't.
I'm not going to get those pearls and neither are you.
What about the money?
I'll pay you back.
How?
I have an idea working in my head...
You might find a bullet through that head...
If you did that, you'd get nothing except the police after you. If you wait  I'll give you your six thousand back 
Turn 'em up.
Oh yes  that's right  look! I win, don't I 
I'm having luck for the first time in my life.
Your bank, Mr. Kringelein.
I oughtn't to presume, but I  I'm so grateful to you  it's been so marvelous. The first time in my life I have gambled  I've danced! Oh, you can laugh, gentlemen, but it's the first time in my life I've ever tasted life!
Splendid!
Life, gentlemen, is wonderful, but very dangerous. You must have courage for it, then it's wonderful. You gentlemen don't know that because you are all healthy and happy, but I  believe me  a man must know death and not until then does a man know anything about life.
Rejoice in life while yet the small lamp burns.
It's a short life and a gay one...
Every glass high to life  the splendid, dangerous, mighty, brief  brief life  and the courage to live it. Baron, you know  I've only lived since last night  but that little while seems longer than all the time before  all the 
Is anything wrong?
No! No  we're just on our way downstairs!
The Carlsons' are here.
They are? Come on.
They came all the way from Tarzana.
It's a wonderful thing to have so many devoted friends.
What's happening?
Ben says he and Elaine are getting married.
I don't believe it.
That what he says. Right?
Are you ready in there, feature attraction?
Could I speak to you for a second, Dad?
Dad  could we just talk about this for a second?
Twentyoneyearsold, ladies and gentlemen; four of those years spent accomplishing some rather extraordinary things at one of our nation's leading seats of learning 
I can't hold them much longer, Ben. You better get out here.
I'd like to discuss this.
This boy  I'm sorry  this young man  is soon to continue his education as a Frank Halpingham Award Scholar  but before he does 
 before he does  You're disappointing them, Ben. You're disappointing them.
Dad  can you listen 
I'll give you ten seconds. He is going to give us a practical demonstration of what I feel safe in saying is a pretty exciting birthday present  and it better work or I'm out over two hundred bucks  so let's hear it for 
Hello.
Mrs. Robinson?
Yes?
It's Benjamin.
Yes?
Benjamin Braddock.
Benjamin  where are you?
Can you look through the glass.
Can you see me now?
Yes, I can.
I drove  I drove Mrs. Robinson home. She wanted me to drive her home so I  I drove her home.
Swell. I appreciate it.
She's upstairs. She wanted me to wait down here till you got home.
Standing guard over the old castle, are you?
Yes, sir.
Here. It looks like you need a refill.
Oh no.
What?
I've got to go.
Is anything wrong? You look a little shaken up.
No. No  I'm just  I'm just a little worried about my future. I'm a little upset about my future.
Thank you very much, sir.
Ben  how old are you now?
Twenty. I'll be twentyone next week.
That's a hell of a good age to be.
Thank you.
I wish I was that age again. Because, Ben 
Sir?
You'll never be young again.
I know.
Ben, can I say something to you?
What?
How long have we known each other now?
How long have you and I known each other? How long have your Dad and I been partners?
Quite a while.
I've watched you grow up, Ben.
Yes, sir.
In many ways I feel as though you were my own son.
Thank you.
So I hope you won't mind my giving you a friendly piece of advice.
I'd like to hear it.
Ben  I think  I think you ought to be taking it a little easier right now than you seem to.
You have yourself a few flings this summer. I bet you're quite a ladies' man.
Oh no.
What? You look like the kind of guy that has to fight them off. Doesn't he look to you like the kind of guy who has to fight them off?
Oh say  Elaine gets down from Berkeley on Saturday.
Oh yes.
Ben  I want you to give her a call.
I will.
Great.
Hi, Ben. What are you doing with yourself these days?
Oh  not too much. Taking it easy.
That's what I'd do if I could. Nothing wrong with that. Hey Ben, Elaine's coming down from Berkeley soon. I want you to call her up this time.
I will.
Because I just think you two would hit it off real well together.
Hello.
What would you say to a short one? Bourbon still your drink?
Yes.
Do you want  do you want to try and tell me why you did it?
Mr. Robinson?
Do you have a special grudge against me? Do you feel a particularly strong resentment for me?
No, it's not 
Is there something I've said that's caused this contempt? Or is it just the things I stand for that you despise?
It was nothing to do with you, sir.
Well, Ben, it was quite a bit to do with me.
Now look  please 
Ben, I think we're two civilized human beings. Do you think it's necessary to threaten each other?
I am not threatening you.
Do you want to unclench your fists, please? Thank you. I can see in the dark, you know. I've been here quite a while.
I am trying to tell you I have no personal feelings about you, Mr. Robinson. I am trying to tell you I do not resent you.
You don't respect me terribly much either, do you?
No, I don't.
Well, I don't think we have a whole lot to say to each other, Ben. I do think you should know the consequences of what you've done. I do think you should know that my wife and I are getting a divorce soon.
But why?
Why?
It shouldn't make any difference what happened.
That's quite a statement.
Listen to me. We got  we got into bed with each other. But it was nothing. It was nothing at all. We might  we might just as well have been shaking hands.
Shaking hands. Well, that's not saying much for my wife, is it?
You miss the point.
Don't shout at me, Ben.
The point is  I don't love your wife. I love your daughter, sir.
Well  I'm sure you think you do, Ben, but after a few times in bed with Elaine I feel quite sure you'd get over that as quickly as you 
HUH?
I think I've talked about this enough. I don't know how far I can go, Ben. I don't know if I can prosecute or not, but I think maybe I can. In the light of what's happened I think maybe I can get you behind bars if you ever look at my daughter again. I have seen Elaine and I have spent the afternoon taking steps to insure...
I'm just 
 worried?
Well 
About what?
I guess  about my future.
What about it?
I don't know. I want it to be 
To be what?
Different.
Why?
Well  it's very comfortable  just to drift here.
Have you thought about graduate school?
No.
Would you mind telling me then  what were those four years of college for? What was the point of all that hard work?
You got me.
Now listen, Ben. I think it's a very good thing that a young man  after he's done some very good work  should have a chance to relax and enjoy himself, and lie around, and drink beer and so on. But after a few weeks I believe that person would want to take some stock in himself and his situation and start to think about getting off his ass.
I guess she's not good enough for you, is that it?
Look  Elaine Robinson and I do not get along.
How do you know? You haven't seen her since high school. I guess your evenings, whatever you do with them, are just too valuable.
That has nothing to do with it 
I guess I'll just tell Mr. Robinson that you're just too busy every evening  doing God knows what 
Say that again.
I'm going to marry Elaine Robinson.
Come on, let's call the Robinsons. We've got something to celebrate.
No. I think you'll want to wait on that.
Wait a minute. You talked to Elaine this morning?
No. She doesn't know about it.
She doesn't know that you're coming up to Berkeley?
No. Actually  she doesn't know about us getting married yet.
Ben  this whole idea sounds pretty halfbaked.
No  it's not. It's completely baked. It's a decision I've made.
Say hello to Mrs. Robinson, Benjamin.
Hello, Mrs. Robinson.
Can I talk to you a minute?
Sure.
Benjamin? I'm going to ask you something but you don't have to tell me if you don't want.
What?
Well I'm going to ask you what you do when you go off at night.
When I go off?
You don't have to tell me if you don't want.
No, I do. I want to tell you.
I drive around.
What else?
Nothing else.
Well you don't drive around from midnight until noon the next day, Benjamin.
Oh, no.
Then what do you do? Do you meet someone?
Meet someone?
Why did you say that?
Well this is your business, Benjamin. If you 
No wait. Wait.
I don't meet anyone, mother, but why did you say that?
Benjamin, I'm not going to pry into your affairs, but I'd rather you didn't say anything at all than be dishonest. Goodnight, Benjamin.
Well, wait.
Well why do you  why do you think that?
Because I know you don't drive around for twelve hours.
Oh. Well, I don't. Shall I tell you what I do?
Not if you don't want to.
I do.
But I don't want you to make up something.
I'm not. But I'm  I'm not very proud of what I do. I usually get kind of drunk. I usually drive over to Los Angeles and go to some bars and get kind of drunk. Then I take a hotel room. So I won't have to drive home on the freeway. I mean it kind of scares me to drive home after 
Goodnight, Benjamin.
You believe me, don't you?
No.
You don't?
But I want you to. Please. Please will you believe me.
Goodnight.
It's pretty embarrassing. I really don't know what to tell Mr. Robinson. It's awkward and strained for me every time he suggests that you call up Elaine.
Next time he suggests it, I'll tell him I have no intention of ever calling her up in my life.
Don't go on like this. Now if Benjamin absolutely refuses to take her out 
I do.
 then I'll simply invite all the Robinsons' over for dinner on Thursday.
I'm going up to Berkeley today.
Oh, Ben  this is so  exciting 
They don't know?
No  they don't.
Well  when did you decide all this?
About an hour ago.
When did you two talk this over?
We haven't.
No  actually I'm not 
I'd like you to know my sister, Miss DeWitte 
Braddock  Braddock?
Yes, but I'm afraid 
I'll find your table in a moment. Braddock. Not Braniff? We have a Braniff.
No  actually I'm just looking for a friend.
I'm afraid I don't understand.
I'm not with your party  I'm sorry.
Hey  I don't get it.
I say I've got it.
Sir?
The toothbrush. I got it all right.
Very good, sir.
Yes. Well  goodnight.
Goodnight, sir.
Oh. I guess this isn't the bathroom, is it?
It's down the hall.
How are you, Benjamin?
Fine, thank you. The bathroom is down at the end of the hall.
Is there an ashtray in here?
No.
Oh  I forgot. The track star doesn't smoke.
Is it a girl?
Is what a girl?
Whatever it is you're upset about.
Oh  no. I'm just sort of disturbed about things.
In general.
That's right.
Benjamin, I want to ask you something.
What?
Will you take me home?
What?
My husband took the car. Will you drive me home?
You don't?
No.
Let's go.
Thank you.
Right.
Will you come in, please?
What?
I want you to come in till I get the lights on.
What for?
Because I don't feel safe until I get the lights on.
Would you mind walking ahead of me to the sun porch. I feel funny about coming into a dark house.
But it's light in there now.
Please.
What do you drink? Bourbon?
Look  I drove you home. I was glad to do it. But I have some things on my mind. Can you understand that?
All right then.
What do you drink?
Benjamin  I'm sorry to be this way, but I don't want to be alone in this house.
Why not?
Please wait till my husband gets home.
When is he coming back?
I don't know.
Drink?
No.
Are you always this much afraid of being alone?
Yes.
Well, why can't you just lock the doors and go to bed?
I'm very neurotic.
What do you think of me?
What do you mean?
You've known me nearly all of your life. You must have formed some opinion.
Well  I've always thought that you were a very  nice  person.
Did you know I was an alcoholic?
What?
Did you know that?
Look  I think I should be going 
Sit down, Benjamin.
Mrs. Robinson  if you don't mind my saying so  this conversation is getting a little strange. Now I'm sure that Mr. Robinson will be here any minute and 
No.
What?
My husband will be back quite late.
Oh my God.
Pardon?
Oh no, Mrs. Robinson, oh no.
What's wrong?
Mrs. Robinson, you didn't  I mean you didn't expect 
What?
I mean  you didn't really think that I would do something like that.
Like what?
What do you think?
Well I don't know.
For God's sake, Mrs. Robinson, here we are, you've got me into your house. You give me a drink. You put on music, now you start opening up your personal life to me and tell me your husband won't be home for hours.
So?
Mrs. Robinson  you are trying to seduce me.
Aren't you?
Why no. I hadn't thought of it. I feel rather flattered that you 
Mrs. Robinson, will you forgive me for what I just said?
It's all right.
It's not all right, it's the worst thing I've ever said to anyone.
Sit down.
Please forgive me. Because I like you. I don't think of you that way. But I'm mixed up.
All right. Now finish your drink.
Mrs. Robinson, it makes me sick that I said that to you.
We'll forget it right now. Finish your drink.
What is wrong with me?
Have you ever seen Elaine's portrait?
Her portrait?
Yes.
No.
We had it done last Christmas. Would you like to see it?
Very much.
I don't remember her as having brown eyes.
Benjamin?
Yes?
Will you unzip my dress?
I think I'll go to bed.
Oh. Well, goodnight.
Won't you unzip my dress?
I'd rather not, Mrs. Robinson.
If you still think I'm trying to seduce you 
No, I don't. But I just feel a little funny.
Benjamin  you've known me all your life.
I know that. But I'm 
Come on.
Thank you.
Right.
What are you so scared of?
I'm not scared, Mrs. Robinson.
Then why do you keep running away?
Because you're going to bed. I don't think I should be up here.
Haven't you ever seen anybody in a slip before?
Yes, I have 
But I just  Look  what if Mr. Robinson walked in right now?
What if he did?
Well, it would look pretty funny, wouldn't it?
Don't you think he trusts us together?
Of course he does. But he might get the wrong idea. Anyone might.
I don't see why. I'm twice as old as you are. How could anyone think 
But they would! Don't you see?
Benjamin  I'm not trying to seduce you. I wish you'd 
I know that. But please, Mrs. Robinson. This is difficult for me.
Why is it?
Because I am confused about things. I can't tell what I'm imagining. I can't tell what's real. I can't 
Would you like me to seduce you?
What?
Is that what you're trying to tell me?
I'm going home now. I apologize for what I said. I hope you can forget it. But I'm going home right now.
I really don't want to put this on again. Won't you bring it up?
Where is it?
On that chair in the hall.
Don't be nervous.
Get away from that door.
I want to say something first.
Jesus Christ!
Benjamin  I want you to know I'm available to you. If you won't sleep with me this time 
Oh my God.
If you won't sleep with me this time, Benjamin, I want you to know you can call me up any time you want and we'll make some kind of arrangement.
Let me out!
Do you understand what I said?
Yes. Yes. Let me out!
Because I find you very attractive and any time 
Yes, I do.
I've got to go.
Benjamin?
Yes.
Thank you for taking me home.
Hello, Benjamin.
Oh. Hello. Hello.
May I sit down?
Of course.
How are you?
Very well. Thank you.
May I have a drink?
A drink? Of course.
He didn't see me.
Waiter!
You don't have to be so nervous, you know.
Nervous. Well, I am a bit nervous. I mean it's  it's pretty hard to be suave when you're 
Did you get us a room?
What?
Have you gotten us a room yet?
I haven't. No.
Do you want to?
Well  I don't. I mean I could. Or we could just talk.
Do you want me to get it?
You? Oh no. No. I'll get it.
Do you want to get it now?
Now?
Yes.
Well  I don't know.
Why don't you get it.
Why don't I get it? Well  I will then. If you'll excuse me.
I got a single room.
That's fine.
But there's one thing. The desk clerk seemed to be a little bit suspicious. I mean  I don't know what their policy is  but 
Well  do you want to go up first?
Yes  I think that would be good.
I'll be up in five minutes.
Well  goodbye then 
Benjamin.
Yes?
Isn't there something you want to tell me?
To tell you?
Yes.
Well  I want you to know how much I appreciate this  really 
The number.
What?
The room number, Benjamin. I think you ought to tell me that.
Oh? You're absolutely right. Absolutely. It's 512.
Thank you.
You're welcome. Well  I'll see you later, Mrs. Robinson.
Well.
Benjamin.
Yes?
I'll get undressed now. Is that all right?
Sure. Shall I  I mean shall I just stand here? I mean  I don't know what you want me to do.
Why don't you watch?
Oh  sure. Thank you.
Will you bring me a hanger?
What?
A hanger.
Oh  yes. Wood?
What?
Wood or wire? They have both.
Either one will be fine.
Okay.
Thank you.
You're welcome.
Would this be easier for you in the dark?
Mrs. Robinson  I can't do this.
You what?
This is all terribly wrong.
Benjamin  do you find me undesirable?
Oh no, Mrs. Robinson. I think  I think you're the most attractive of all my parents' friends. I just don't think we could possibly 
Are you afraid of me?
No  but look  maybe we could do something else together, Mrs. Robinson  would you like to go to a movie.
Benjamin, is this your first time?
Is this  what?
It is, isn't it? It is your first time.
That's a laugh, Mrs. Robinson. That's really a laugh. Ha ha.
You can admit that, can't you?
Are you kidding?
It's nothing to be ashamed of 
Wait a minute!
On your first time 
Who said it was my first time?
That you're afraid 
Wait a minute.
 of bring  inadequate  I mean just because you happen to be inadequate in one way 
INADEQUATE!
Now  do you think we could say a few words to each other first this time?
If you want.
Good. I mean are we dead or something?
Well I just don't think we have much to say to each other.
All we ever do is come up here and throw off the clothes and leap into bed together.
Are you tired of it?
I'm not. No. But do you think we could liven it up with a few words now and then?
Well what do you want to talk about?
Anything. Anything at all.
Do you want to tell me about some of your college experiences?
Oh my God.
Well?
Mrs. Robinson. If that's the best we can do let's just get the goddamn clothes off and 
Leave it on! Now we are going to do this thing. We are going to have a conversation. Think of another topic.
How about art.
Art. That's a good subject. You start it off.
You start it off. I don't know anything about it.
Oh.
Don't you?
Yes I do. I know quite a bit about it.
Go ahead then.
Art. Well what do you want to know about it.
Are you interested more in modern art or more in classical art.
Neither.
You're not interested in art?
No.
Then why do you want to talk about it?
I don't.
Can I take off my clothes now?
No. Think of another topic. Tell me what you did today.
Do you really want me to?
Yes I do.
I got up.
Do you want to hear it or not?
Yes. But you might try and spice it up with a little originality.
I got up. I ate breakfast and went shopping. During the afternoon I read a novel.
What one.
What?
What novel did you read.
I don't remember.
Then I fixed supper for my husband and waited until 
There!
What?
Your husband! Mrs. Robinson! There's something we could have a conversation about.
Him?
I mean everything. I don't know anything about how you  how you work this. I don't know how you get out of the house at night. I don't know the risk involved.
There isn't any.
There's no risk?
How do you get out of the house?
I walk out.
You walk right out the door.
What do you say to him?
He's asleep.
Always?
Benjamin, this isn't a very interesting topic.
Please. Now tell me. How do you know he won't wake up sometime and follow you.
Because he takes sleeping pills. He takes three sleeping pills every night at ten o'clock.
But what about the noise from the car. What if 
The driveway's on my side of the house.
We're talking.
What?
We're talking, Mrs. Robinson. We're talking.
Calm down, Benjamin.
Now let's keep going here.
Can I undress and talk at the same time?
Right.
Thank you.
Now. You say the driveway's on your side of the house. So I guess you don't sleep in the same room.
We don't.
So you don't  I mean I don't like to seem like I'm prying but I guess you don't sleep together or anything.
No we don't.
Well how long has this been going on.
About five years.
Oh no. Are you kidding me?
No.
You have not slept with your husband for five years?
Now and then. He gets drunk a few times a year.
How many times a year.
On New Year's Eve. Sometimes on his birthday.
Man, is this interesting.
Is it?
So you don't love him. You wouldn't say you 
We've talked enough, Benjamin.
Wait a minute. So you wouldn't say you loved him.
Not exactly.
But you don't hate him.
No, Benjamin. I don't hate him. Unhook my blouse.
Well how do you feel about him, then?
I don't.
Well that's kind of a bad situation then, isn't it?
Is it?
I mean it doesn't sound like it could be much worse. If you hated him at least you'd hate him.
Well you loved him once, I assume. When you first knew him.
No.
What?
I never did, Benjamin. Now let's 
Well, wait a minute. You married him.
Why did you do that?
See if you can guess.
Well I can't.
Think real hard, Benjamin.
I can't see why you did, unless... you didn't have to marry him or anything, did you?
Don't tell Elaine.
Oh no. You had to marry him because you got pregnant?
Are you shocked?
Well I never thought of you and Mr. Robinson as the kind of people who...
All right. Now let's get to bed.
Wait a minute. Wait a minute. So how did it happen?
What?
I mean do you feel like telling me what were the circumstances?
Not particularly.
Was he a law student at the time?
And you were a student also.
Yes.
At college.
Yes.
What was your major?
Why are you asking me all this?
Because I'm interested, Mrs. Robinson. Now what was your major subject at college?
Art.
Art?
But I thought you  I guess you kind of lost interest in it over the years then.
Kind of.
Well how did it happen?
How do you think.
I mean did he take you up to his room with him? Did you go to a hotel?
Benjamin, what does it possibly matter?
I'm curious.
We'd go to his car.
Oh no. In the car you did it?
I don't think we were the first.
What kind of car was it?
What?
Do you remember the make of the car?
Oh my God.
Really. I want to know.
It was a Ford, Benjamin.
A Ford! A Ford! Goddamnit, a Ford! That's great!
That's enough.
So old Elaine Robinson got started in a Ford.
Don't talk about Elaine.
Don't talk about Elaine?
No.
Why not?
Because I don't want you to.
I wish you'd tell me.
There's nothing to tell.
Well why is she a big taboo subject all of a sudden?
Well  I guess I'll have to ask her out on a date and find out what's 
Benjamin, don't you ever take that girl out.
Do you understand that?
Well look. I have no intention of taking her out.
Good.
I was just kidding around.
Good.
But why shouldn't I?
I have my reasons.
Then let's hear them.
No.
Let's hear your reasons, Mrs. Robinson. Because I think I know what they are.
I'm not good enough for her to associate with, am I? I'm not good enough to even talk about her, am I?
Let's drop it.
We're not dropping it. Now that's the reason, isn't it? I'm a dirty degenerate, aren't I? I'm not fit to 
Benjamin?
I'm good enough for you but I'm too slimy to associate with your daughter. That's it, isn't it? ISN'T IT?
Yes.
You go to hell. You go straight to hell, Mrs. Robinson. Do you think I'm proud of myself? Do you think I'm proud of this?
I wouldn't know.
Well, I'm not.
You're not.
No sir. I am not proud that I spend my time with a brokendown alcoholic!
I see.
And if you think I come here for any reason besides pure boredom, then you're all wrong.
Because  Mrs. Robinson this is the sickest, most perverted thing that ever happened to me. And you do what you want but I'm getting the hell out.
Are you?
You're goddamn right I am.
That I'm a sick and disgusting person.
Now don't start this.
What?
Don't start acting hurt.
Don't you expect me to be a little hurt?
Mrs. Robinson, you stand there and tell me I'm not good enough for your daughter.
Did I say that?
Of course you did.
Benjamin, I want to apologize to you if that's the impression you got.
Well two minutes ago you told me I wasn't good enough for your daughter. Now you say you're sorry I got that impression.
I didn't mean it. I don't think you'd be right for each other. But I would never say you weren't as good a person as she is.
You wouldn't.
Of course I wouldn't.
What are you doing?
Well it's pretty obvious you don't want me around any more.
Well look  I was kind of upset there. I'm sorry I said those things.
If that's how you feel 
But it's not.
That's all right. I think I can understand why I'm disgusting to you.
Oh no. Look  I like you. I wouldn't keep coming here if I didn't like you.
But if it's sickening for you 
It's not! I enjoy it! I look forward to it. It's the one thing I have to look forward to.
You don't have to say that.
Well I wouldn't. I would never say it if it wasn't true.
May I stay then?
Yes. Please. I want you to.
Thank you.
Well don't thank me, because I want you to.
Look. Why the hell did you bring this up. It never occurred to me to take her out.
Then give me your word you won't.
This is absurd.
Promise me, Benjamin.
All right, for christ's sake. I promise I will never take out Elaine Robinson.
Thank you. Benjamin 
Let's not talk about it. Let's not talk at all.
Now listen  this was not my idea. It was my father's idea.
Benjamin  I thought I made myself perfectly clear about this.
Look, we'll go out to dinner and have a drink and I'll bring her back. Because it was either that or a dinner party for the two families. And I'm afraid I couldn't quite handle that, if you don't mind. I have no intention of ever taking your precious daughter out again in her life. So don't get upset about it.
But I am. I'm extremely upset about it, Benjamin.
Drive down the block.
Mrs. Robinson  I have a date with Elaine. We're going for a drive.
Do exactly what I say.
Now it seems to me 
Listen to me very carefully, Benjamin. You are not to see Elaine again. Ever. Those are my orders. Is that clear?
Mrs. Robinson 
I can makes things quite unpleasant.
How?
In order to keep Elaine away from you  I am prepared to tell her everything.
I don't believe you.
Then you'd better start believing me.
Mrs. Robinson, don't wreck it. I'm asking you please not to wreck it.
Go home now.
I just don't believe you would do that.
Hello. Get me the police, please.
Where is Elaine?
I'll be with you in a moment, Benjamin. Will you send a police car to twelve hundred Glenview Road. We have a burgler here. Just a second. I'll ask him. Are you armed? No  I don't believe he is. Thank you.
What have you done to her?
I think we have everything quite under control now, Benjamin. Would you like a quick drink before you go?
You can't stop me from seeing her, Mrs. Robinson. I'll find her.
I'm sorry we won't be able to invite you to the wedding, Benjamin, but the arrangements have been so rushed 
What the hell have you done?
Ahh. I don't think you'll have time for that drink after all.
I'll find her.
I don't think so.
Can I help you, sir!
What? Oh  no  I'm just 
What?
The Singleman party, sir?
Oh  yes. The Singleman party.
It's in the main ballroom.
Ahh  thank you.
Yes sir?
A room. I'd like a room, please.
A single room or a double room?
A single. Just for myself, please.
Will you sign the register, please?
Is anything wrong, sir?
What? No. Nothing.
Do you have any luggage, Mister  Gladstone?
Luggage? Yes. Yes. I do.
Where is it?
What?
Where is your luggage?
Well it's in the car. It's out in the car.
Very good, sir. I'll have a porter bring it in.
Oh no.
Sir?
I mean I'd  I'd rather not go to the trouble of bringing it all in. I just have a toothbrush. I can get it myself. If that's all right.
Of course.
I'll have a porter show you the room.
Oh. Well actually, I'd just as soon find it myself. I just have the toothbrush to carry up and I think I can manage it myself.
Whatever you say, sir.
BENJAMIN?
Yes.
Will you bring up my purse before you go?
I have to go now. I'm sorry.
Mrs. Robinson?
I'm in the bathroom.
Well here's the purse.
Could you bring it up?
Well I'll hand it to you.
Come to the railing and I'll hand it up.
Benjamin  I am getting pretty tired of all this suspicion. Now if you won't do me a simple favor I don't know what.
I'm putting it on the top step.
For God's sake, Benjamin, will you stop acting that way and bring me the purse?
I'm putting it here by the door.
Will you bring it in to me?
I'd rather not.
All right. Put it in the room where we were.
Right.
Hello.
Mrs. Robinson  I don't quite know how to put this 
Benjamin?
Look  I was thinking about that time after the party 
Where are you?
 and I was wondering if I could buy you a drink or something 
Where are you?
Uh  The Taft Hotel.
Did you get a room?
No. Now I know it's pretty late and if you'd rather 
Give me an hour.
What?
I'll be there in an hour.
You a student?
Not exactly.
What's that?
I said  not exactly  no.
What are you then?
Well  I'm just sort of traveling through.
I like to know who's living in my house. I like to know what my boys are up to.
Ahhh.
You're not one of those agitators?
What?
One of those outside agitators.
Oh  no sir.
I hate that. I won't stand for it.
Oh  hello, Mr. McCleery.
Who screamed?
It's all right, Mr. McCleery.
Screaming isn't all right. Not in my house it isn't.
It was just a visitor. But it's all right now.
What did you do to her?
Look  she's all right. She's upset and she screamed. But she's okay now.
See  she's just having some water. Now there's no need for the cops or anything.
All right, boys  I think you can get back to your rooms. I don't think we'll have any more of this agitation. Will we, Braddock?
No, sir.
Mr. McCleery?
You heard me. Out of here.
What for?
Because I don't like you.
Mr. McCleery  do you have some change? I need to use the phone?
I want you out of here.
Look  I'll give you ten dollars for a dime  I'll give you twenty  for God's sake, will you let me use that phone?
I am going to call the police now.
Could I make one phone call first?
Get out!
Ben!
Excuse me. Mr. McQuire.
Ben.
Mr. McQuire.
Ben  I just want to say one word to you  just one word 
Yes, sir.
Are you listening?
Yes I am.
Plastics.
Exactly how do you mean?
There is a great future in plastics. Think about it. Will you think about it?
Yes, I will.
Okay. Enough said. That's a deal.
6572036
Hello  who is this?
This is Dr. Smith's answering service.
Is the doctor anywhere?
Well  you see  the doctor is at his son's wedding, but I'm sure it's over by now. He should be checking in any moment 
Listen to me. I am Dr. Smith's brother  Reverend Smith  and I am supposed to perform the ceremony. I just got in  from  Portland  and I've forgotten what church  you see?
Oh. Well  I'm not sure  but you might try the First Presbyterian. That's on Allan Street.
Thank you.
I certainly hope you 
Hello.
Hello.
You're living at home now. Is that right?
Yes.
Do you know what you're going to do?
No.
Are you going to graduate school?
No.
Do you always drive like this?
Yes.
Do you want some dinner?
I'd love some.
Aren't you eating?
No.
Why not?
If it's all right with you, I'm not hungry.
Benjamin  do you dislike me for some reason?
No  why should I?
I don't know.
Could you do it?
No.
Will you take me home now?
I'm sorry I took you in there.
I think I'd better go home now please.
But, Elaine 
Where is the car?
I just want to tell you something.
I want to go home.
But could I just tell you this one thing?
What?
This whole idea  this date and everything. It was my parents' idea. They forced me into it.
Oh  that's very nice of you to tell me.
No. What I mean is  that's why I've been acting this way. I'm not like this. I hate myself like this.
Listen  could you stop crying, please?
No, I couldn't.
But could you try?
No.
I've had this feeling  ever since I've graduated  this  kind of compulsion that I have to be rude all the time. Do you know what I mean?
Yes, I do.
Would you like to come in? I could make some coffee.
No, I mean  I wouldn't want to wake anyone up.
We won't. Let's go inside.
Wait a minute.
Is anything wrong?
No  I was just thinking  look  it's still early  we could do something  go somewhere else.
All right.
Where we going?
I'm trying to think of where there's a place to have a drink around here.
Isn't there one in the Taft Hotel?
What is the matter?
Nothing. I'm just wondering if they have a bar or not. I mean let's go see. Let's go see if they do or not.
Listen, Elaine  it seems to me that there isn't a bar in here. I mean  as far as I know.
Of course there is. Look  The Veranda Room  right there.
Benjamin 
Let's get out of here, Elaine. Let's go somewhere else.
Benjamin  do they know you?
Of course not.
Ben  what's happening? Who is Mr. Gladstone?
I don't know. They must think I look like this guy Gladstone.
Do you?
Yes.
You're the first  you're the first thing for so long that I've liked. The first person I could stand to be with.
I'm sorry. That is not my business.
It just happened. It was just this thing that happened along with everything else. Can you understand that?
Was she married or something?
Yes.
With a family?
Yes. She had a husband and a son.
Did they ever find out?
No.
And it's all over now.
Yes.
I'm glad.
All right.
During the day? We'll go for a drive or something.
Okay.
You sure you really want to?
Yes.
Because I wouldn't want you to do it unless you really wanted to!
I do.
You do?
Benjamin  I really do.
What's the matter?
You've got to go over the back fence and I'll meet you on the corner.
Benjamin  what's happening?
Hurry up. Put your shoes on.
Why aren't you ready?
Because I want to know what's happening.
What is it?
That woman 
What?
That woman. The older woman.
You mean the one who 
Yes. The married woman  it wasn't just some woman 
Elaine 
Oh my God 
No  don't cry 
GET OUT!
Don't cry.
Get out of here.
I'm meeting someone.
Ah. Where?
Where are you meeting this person?
At the Zoo.
The Zoo. They have a pretty good one here, do they?
I've never been to it.
Oh. Well, I haven't either. I might just ride out there with you.
Is that him over there?
No.
Where did he say he was going to meet you?
I thought he said by the monkey house.
Oh.
Benjamin  I would like to know what you're doing here.
Here? In Berkeley?
Yes.
Well, I have this very pleasant room on Carter Street  and I've been getting to some classes 
But you're not enrolled.
No. I just sit in. They don't seem to mind. They've been very congenial about it.
Benjamin  you're  I don't know what to say  you're 
Maybe we could get together some time and talk about it.
 really incredible 
Here he comes.
What?
I've got a real feeling that this is the fellow.
I want to ask you a question.
Come in.
No. I want to know why you're here in Berkeley?
Because  I am.
Is it because I'm here?
What do you think?
I think it is.
I said I think it is.
All right then! Yes!
Well, I want you to leave.
Elaine  I love you.
How could you do that, Benjamin?
Do you just hate everything? How could you possibly rape my...
What?
I don't understand 
Did you say rape her?
 how you  how anyone  could do a thing like that.
What did she say?
Let me go.
You've got to tell me what she said.
Why?
Because it isn't true.
I don't feel well.
She said she was having a drink in the hotel with a friend. You waited for her in the parking lot and told her she was too drunk to drive home and that you would get her a room for the night.
Then what?
Then you took her upstairs and you raped her.
Elaine  that is not what happened.
Please let me go.
All right  but listen to me. What happened was there was this party at my parents. I drove your mother home  then we went upstairs to see your portrait 
Don't tell me 
 and when we got up in the room she starts taking her her clothes off  and 
Benjamin  this is my mother!
 suddenly there she was without any clothes on  I mean really naked 
Benjamin, when you came up here, what did you think was going to happen between us?
Elaine  right now I don't feel like talking much. I'm sorry about everything but I think I'll just do this now.
Can I just sit here while you're packing?
If you want.
What are you looking for?
My belt.
Don't you have it on?
No. I have two. The other one is the one I'm looking for. What's this? It's from my grandmother.
The marble?
The belt I'm looking for was from my grandmother.
Oh.
What are you going to do now?
I don't know.
Are you going home?
No.
Well  where are you going?
I don't want you to leave tomorrow.
I don't understand.
I don't want you to go anywhere until you have a definite plan.
But Elaine 
Goodbye.
Benjamin?
What?
Will you kiss me!
You won't?
I don't know.
But you might.
I might.
Is that so? You might marry me?
Yes.
When?
I don't know.
How about tomorrow? I don't mean to be pushy but 
I don't know. I don't know what's happening.
You mean you're confused?
Well  look  don't be confused. We're getting married.
I don't see how we can.
We just can.
I have to go back now.
Elaine  are you serious about this?
I'll think about it.
You really will?
Yes.
We could go down and get our blood tests tomorrow.
Tomorrow?
Or this afternoon. It's a good day for it.
Benjamin  I haven't even said I'll marry you yet.
We'll need our Birth Certificates. I happen to have mine with me. Where's yours?
I just don't think it would work.
Why wouldn't it?
Why wouldn't it?
I just don't think it would...
Why don't you just drag me off if you want to marry me so much?
Why don't I just drag you off? All right  I will. Right after we get the blood tests.
Well  I have to see Carl first.
Carl who?
Carl who?
Carl Smith. He's a medical student. We've known him for years.
Who  that guy at the Zoo?
Yes.
Why do you have to see him?
Well  I said I might marry him.
How did he do it? Did he get down on his knees? He didn't get down on his knees, I hope.
No, Benjamin.
Well, what did he say? I'm curious.
He said he thought we'd make a pretty good team.
Oh no. He said that.
Shhhh.
Where did he do it?
Are we getting married tomorrow?
No.
The day after tomorrow?
Maybe we are and maybe we aren't.
Benjamin?
What?
You're a legate in the Roman army. Huh...? and you act like one. What was your crime?
I killed too many barbarians.
I'm a Greek, thank you. And I was brought up believing Romans were the barbarians. Give our new colleague some of the Cretan white. Relax, tell me everything, I'm your friend.
Who the hell are you?
I am the man who might save your life  give you a bit more life at any rate. I am Proximo Palindromos head of this gladiatorial school which is named after me. I own this school and everything that's in it. You're in it! But why? What did a Roman general do to get himself condemned to the Colosseum? Understand, we usually get corn thieves and pick pockets. Please, I separated you from the others because... ... my nose tells me you've been condemned for important reasons.
Condemned? Aren't I owed a trial before being condemned?
General, all I know is you have been condemned to the Colosseum, and a trial is nowhere to be seen.
Impossible! Every citizen has a right to trial  this is Rome!
Thank you. What is going to happen tomorrow? Exactly?
You are to be killed, exactly. They'll give you a sporting chance, but just enough to make your murder... entertaining. Romans like to mix their metaphors: laughter with their executions, you know? If you survive, though, you will become a gladiator. A gladiator at least gets a fair fight.
Death is a very light thing for you.
Death is... everything for me. Now you have to go to your cell, and I to dicker with Jerses... you'll be fed well. I want you to be fit as you can be; I want you to win for me tomorrow! I want all my gladiators to win and be happy! Besides, I've never owned a Roman general before.
Take your hands off me animal!
Chain him.
Sorry but I have to get at least one fight out of you otherwise I won't even get back the cost of the bribe I had to pay the arena slaves to get you here. I know what you're trying to do: kill yourself and trust in the Roman tradition of justice that the emperor will let your family survive and keep their lands. The only thing you have accomplishes is to prove you're a very important individual. You make me feel good about my investment! And that puking pig Jerses  he won't even discuss you. Both of you have clamped mouths! But I love all my fighters  I'll find out about your family. And about you. That I promise.
I refuse to be your slave. I refuse 
 to fight? We'll see...
Legate Narcissus Meridas, general of the Spanish Felix Legions! I'm proud to have you in my school! Now, show them what you can do!
I'm not a gladiator. I refuse to fight.
Then, you'll die... Just, know this: because you asked I asked: I'm sorry but...
General, do you realize what happened out there today?
I didn't get killed and everyone else did.
That's one way to look at it.
At the end of the day I was approached by the Golden Pompeii Olive Oil company. Small, but profitable. They asked if you would endorse their oil. We could get some very nice posters. Make some very big money...
What would the poster say: "Narcissus would kill for a taste of Golden Pompeii Olive Oil?"
Think about it! Just think about it!
General, hang on... drink slowly. You are blessed by the Gods to have a physician and a Divine of Janus with you tonight. A fan sent them to you.
Alive... I'm alive...
Proximo, if this is her doctor he's an assassin.
Don't be ridiculous.
It will be good luck for you to wear that helmet... It belonged to Cimon of Smyrna... he was crushed by an elephant.
Lucky it didn't step on his head.
No more bad luck now! The people are anticipating you! I have posters up over half the city advertising you as the great warrior  the true Roman! The man who fought side by side with the wolf of Rome!
Make us rich, Proximo, make us very rich...
Tiger's challenged you and Jerses has made me an offer, made us both an offer: you take a fall.
What the hell are you talking about, Greek?
You put this inside your shirt  when Tiger stabs your stomach  it's full of pig's blood. Gushes out everywhere! It's really impressive. Fantastic! Better than the real thing!
So I pretend I'm dead. You get gold, what do I get?
You get to come alive again in the country!
As, what, 'The Galloping Gladiator?!'
The point is you get to fight the easy country circuit, the small arenas, relax, live the good life!
Spend my days beheading country bumpkins? I don't know, Proximo, who has better wine than you? Besides, I'm beginning to think of the Colosseum as my home.
But  you have to go out there! I'll give you more than your one third! When I get paid... just take the fall! You're too hurt to fight and the man's a killer!
Pressures on, eh Proximo? There's got to be a load of money in this. Why else would you toss a red hot commodity like me out the window?
It's absolutely not like that! This is for your own good! Come on get the rest of your armor on!
Tell me honestly, since this may be our last earthly meeting: if this were a fair fight where would you put your money?
On you! Of course! You are my bravest fighter  the best fighter I have ever seen!
Such nobility from such an ignoble mouth. Take my advice and make that bet.
Oh, shit. Take your time! Don't get suckered! This man is a murderer! In his career he's killed over a thousand gladiators. Please, just take the fall!
How much money is involved?
A great deal. They designed and build Tiger's chariot...
They want to dump Tiger and have me endorse their damned chariot, right? They don't waste time...
I can really rape them on this! Can I at least tell them you'll think about it?
No. Tell them I'll do it. But I want more posters all over Rome.
Fantastic! Wonderful! But posters are very expensive.
Then get a large cash advance.
Right, right... But they'll have to bring in a lawyer. I don't want to get sued over this.
Before they leave, get gold.
Right, right, what am I thinking of?
I want another interview with Cos. Tell him to bring plenty of ink.
I'll do it! Sure as there's shit in the Tiber we're all going to die, but for you  anything!
So, things change. The government has moved to the circus. You're going to fight last. And Commodus is going to fight first.
You were a soldier, and then a gladiator, weren't you?
Was I?
Let's talk about this later. Right now we have other things to settle. You and your family will be leaving with a supply ship returning in the morning to Ostia. From there, Caesar has decreed you be given an estate in Paestum. It's beautiful; an old Greek town right on the ocean. Rich soil. Perhaps we could keep our financial arrangements... although Caesar will give you a sort of pension it's always good to look to the future, keep your hand in the arena... so to speak.
I want nothing to do with the arena.
Something else, then. Do the chariot races interest you?
Commodus must hate you. Free your gladiators and come with us.
Are you mad? With all this unrest the Colosseum will be open day and night! Anyway, I'm not political, I'm in the entertainment business.
He's very realistic.
Isn't the helmet magnificent?
Well, you wanted the girls to have the best teachers.
Greeks?
Athenians...
What about their philosophy lessons?
They're studying with Cynics.
Of course...
You need to come home!
I can see that...
The battle is over. The war is over. You've won!
If you win, you know, you have to stay. It's the losers who get to go home. Besides, I'm not so sure it is over. Centurions report enemy scouts probing our lines.
This is our oil from our estates?
I've been overseeing production myself for the past three years, you'll be surprised at how wonderful our oil has become.
Very fancy. Did you design the bottle?
Who else? I'm the one who runs the estates while you're here risking everything we have for the glory of Rome! Or for the glory of you!
I'm a soldier  we're at war. I can't stay home tending the damned olive groves?
We don't need your help we're doing great on our own.
I want to come home, of course I do, I'd have to be mad not to want that. It's just that Marcus trusts me.
Let him trust Quintus.
Quintus is overly idealistic.
I never knew a more idealistic man than you.
Me? Well, I believe in Rome... you'd have to after what I've seen, how people outside the empire treat each other.
I don't even want to imagine the things you've seen...
What you don't want to imagine is the things I've done.
When you get to Ostia, use this  bribe passage to Africa or Spain. Save my family. You should be able to find a merchant ship that will take you to Egypt then to Numidia.
No!
You're not going! You have to stay with us!
How long do you think Commodus will let us live once he's in power? A month? Half a year? Paestum will be a prison where he'll hold us until it's time...
Narcissus!
Do you want to see Themis and Manto butchered? If I die fighting Commodus he won't care about you. If I live I'll come and get you.
I don't want you to die!
I'll never die. You tell the girls that. You honor our ancestors and I'll be there. Every night. At the table of life.
Your daughters need more than some vapors; they need you!
They'll have me. Teach them. Don't let them become like these ignorant heaps of citizens without history, without philosophy, without meaning. Teach them of the Greeks, the Babylonians, the Hebrews, the Numidians, the Egyptians and the great Romans. Teach them, who we are!
You teach them!
That's what I'm going to do. That's what I'm going to do...
I see the emperor's little boy has finally caught up with the army.
Let's hope he doesn't start giving orders.
What the hell was all that about?
What the hell do you think it was about? There's nothing an unproved heir to the throne likes less than glaring competence in others.
Why don't we try to keep politics out of the conversation.
Well, we can try...
Serious stuff...
Centurions on both sides of the river are convinced the Germans will try one last offensive. They've got nothing to lose and it's so very like them.
Everyone knew you would have been outspoken against this deal.
What deal?
Rome is going to pay an allotment to the German tribes on an annual basis.
Rome is going to pay tribute  like a defeated nation begging for mercy? Have you told your troops that?
My troops don't make policy.
Well, they die for it!
On his death bed I promised Marcus I would complete our work here. The Senate may be vacillating, but I have the army behind me. I'm taking half a cohort and restocking that fort.
I can't let you do that.
You brought the army into Rome.
I was summoned.
It's your job as a Roman officer to disobey such a summons.
It's my job to keep my job. And that, by the way, is now head of Praetorian Guard. Good ole Tribuus has been retired.
Quintus, you've got at least a division with you  we could take Rome away from Commodus and give it back to the Senate!
You seem to be doing a great job of it singlehand! Narcissus, the Republic is dead. You think those Senators could govern? For the last hundred and fifty years they've worked hard at kissing an endless succession of Imperial asses!
Then give the empire back to the people... the children who will grow up to become senators...
The 'people'?, listen to the people, they know what they want: A government that gives them what they need and doesn't bother them with messy thoughts of issues. You know, messy... thinking. They want a dictator! As far as the children, there is only one thing that every Roman child dreams of: being you! A famous gladiator!
What are you fighting for in here? The good of Rome? I can end this madness now! Take the job for the sake of the Gods, live!
Can you stop that slaughter?! Can you free these men?
I made the plume from a quail feather.
Much more colorful than the ones we wear. And, of course, less dented.
Don't stop to visit  take the children straight home and I'll follow as soon as I can.
Tomorrow?
As soon as I can.
On your honor as a Roman officer, daddy?
On my honor as your daddy...
Commodus, it's we who are going on the offensive.
The fort helps position us for a final invasion in the spring when they're most vulnerable.
Commodus  listen to Narcissus, listen to the man who has never lost a battle for Rome! You're young with years ahead of you before you gain the experience to wear the purple!
I want you to start your work for the last phase of the campaign.
I will, Marcus. But you're going to be well enough to direct it yourself.
I've made so many mistakes, Narcissus. We all put off the very last duties of our lives because we're afraid of admitting when our lives are over.
There's no reason to say that. Everyone knows you're going to be well. I had Servis groom your horse for a triumphal visit to the front at first light.
Servis made it through again?
He's like you, sir, too tough for the Gods to swallow.
If I'd ever had a sign that you wanted to rule I would have... no, again, it's my own bullheadedness. Narcissus, I should have adopted you years ago. And now the Gods are begging me to make you my son!
Commodus is just a young man, he'll learn what you had to learn.
It's not because he's young, it's because he's ignorant and arrogant. His sister is a better man. That's why I have undertaken to begin sweeping changes in the relationship between the emperor and the Senate.
So I understand.
Everyone talking about it? I wouldn't wonder. All I seek is a genuine balance of power between the Emperor and the Senate. Thus I have transferred legal power  which was theirs to begin with  back to the Senators. This includes a shared right to taxation too but some bite in the plan. It's a start, only a start. If the Emperor and the Senate can share power then the people will be ready to take their share. This means Commodus has to bend; does he strike you as that type?
You're too hard on him. He is a strong young man, with you as his guide...
A man should be upright, not be kept upright. History shows us that a good general is quick to recognize opportunities  even if it means making a complete about face at the last minute. I want you to consider becoming my heir.
Marcus, you honor me, but I'm a soldier, politics scare the hell out of me.
The Senators admire you.
They fear me.
They fear change. The new Caesar must be honest enough to know when the emperorship is no longer feasible. You could be the one, the Emperor, the man who oversees the rebirth of the Republic.
I'll do anything in my power to help you restore the Republic but I can't be that power.
No futuretelling, please, I've been terrified enough for one day.
Narcissus! Terrified? You? The only thing he's scared of is me.
You know our two most senior Senators: Gaius Cantus and Falco Verus?
Only from a distance.
I thought all good generals were quick to recognize opportunities.
Sneaking around with your brother?
Without him. He'd be weeping if he overheard that. Well? The idea of you as my adopted brother is very... exciting.
I'm not fit for the job and as a matter of fact I'm not taking the job.
Why do you keep playing at being so humble? It's a little embarrassing.
Why do you play at being drunk?
How do you know I am playing? Well, the clown is always harmless. Isn't that right? And how did you ever get to know me so well? The last we spent any time together I was fourteen. I think you know me better than my father. He's going to die, isn't he?
I don't believe that. He's got the best doctor in the world and a will of iron. You know we're preparing for a fullblown invasion of Germany.
Of course I know  who do you think is paying for it? The Emperor himself, didn't you know? Why do you think Commodus came rushing up to the front? Burning patriotism? Filial love? He wants to be sure when he takes over there's enough cash left in the treasury to... play Emperor. Watch out for him, Narcissus; he's inexperienced, but... be careful.
It's my brother's neck you want, not mine.
Yours will do!
I came here to see that you stay alive. The people need a living breathing alternative to Commodus, a hero.
You mean a symbol of someone who doesn't exist.
But you do exist. Narcissus: hero of the battle of the Danube.
Twenty years I've led men to die. For me it was the glory of Rome. But that was something. If it wasn't that, then it was the pay or the loot of the next whore  but that was something! These men here are butchered for laughs! Their lives are like jokes delivered in the back alley theaters where their death is a punch line!
For the sake of the Gods, you're not leading these men? How like my father you are. You 'believe'... I guess that's why you're still alive.
To think I brought my daughters up on all things Roman. Read to sleep on Catullus, Lucretius... Virgil... every night. My beautiful daughters.
Do you remember your Epictetus, that little homily we recited when we were children? The one that was supposed to remind us we were Romans?
"If you consider yourself to be only one thread of many in the tunic, then it is fitting for you to be like the rest of men, just as the thread has no desire to be any better than the other threads. But..."
"But what if I wish to be purple?"
You cannot die.
Would that Marcus had lived.
Marcus would have lived but... was poisoned by his son.
He killed his father and then my family...
Narcissus, I have your family. They're alive. All of them.
Where are they?
Hidden. Where my brother cannot place hands on them. He didn't have the guts to watch them die so... I took care of it all. The sooner he is put out of our misery, the sooner will they be safe.
You on your way to trial, too, general? Or do you think they've already had our trial?
Why you?
My loyalties... were in doubt.
Fools to let us both live; we'll be our own best witnesses at our trial.
That's what worries me...
Is this Rome? Are we just going to be executed?
They can't... if this is Rome...
Who are you? Narcissus The Good? I have heard of Narcissus Meridas. That's who I hear you are.
You're hearing about somebody else.
How did you get condemned to the arena without a trial?
When the Senate and the Emperor agree miracles can happen.
Would you support the Senate if they would give you a trial? You'd have to give me your word.
I need to give you my word when yours is worth nothing?
You're a citizen and a soldier. Not a gladiator.
You don't know how wrong you are.
I would venture, with all respect: the Emperor's health is the business of every soul in the empire.
Yes! The days of Imperial Prerogative and disdain for the Senate are over  thanks to your father! Now report to the Senate, Master Galen: what is Marcus' state?
A republican is a man who strives to create equality among all classes. At the core he's a man who believes in doing what's right.
The trouble is defining exactly what 'right' is.
We all know what right is, Senator.
The Senate too?
The moment you returned from the battle your options were clear. If you are a friend to neither side, legate, you must be an enemy to both. We needed to know what you believed.
I hope you live to see what I believe...
The battle was won, today, and I prefer to believe it was a gift of Janus, the eldest God of Rome. God of my ancestors.
God of passages and changes?
I believe we are arriving in an enlightened age; an age of peace that will bring Rome her greatest glory. Thanks to Marcus Aurelius.
You know, general, there is a Gate of Janus in Rome which is only closed in time of peace. Sadly, it has remained open for three hundred years.
I've read of it.
But have never been?
My only visits to Rome, Senator, have been through books. But the war's over, time to close the door of war once and for all.
So tell me, what happened between you and the emperor? What really happened on the German front? You know the Senate's arguing your case...
That's their job, isn't it? To argue. So, I think my case will be long on talk and short on action.
I am prepared to write anything you tell me.
My birth sign is Water Bearer, twentyfifth day in the month of Janus.
The exact month when the Emperor must be confirmed!
The Emperor and I are bound by the threads of The Fates. He was born on August thirtyfirst, you know.
That makes his birth sign... Virgo! Why that's the sign of a little girl! Can you tell my readers more about your starcrossed connection with Emperor Commodus?
Proximo, we need to talk about my one third... I imagine the betting booths will be doing good business. And, what was the name of that olive oil company?
It's time for you to tell the Citizens that Commodus stole the money allocated for defending the German border. It's time to tell the citizens everything. Will you write it?
Yes, because I know they'll read it.
You won an impossible fight. You got the attention of the crowd, legate...
This is Cos, this precocious young man. A scribe for the Daily Action. I've invited him to write a small piece about you...
I'm mentioning you in tomorrow's athlete's section, legate. So, I'd love to know your birth sign; it effects how people bet. And perhaps you could tell me a bit about... well, who are you?
"Caesar Commodus discovering his lineage converges with the Demigod, Hercules, has determined to display his magnificence before his beloved citizens." The Emperor's going to fight in the arena. I'm supposed to write this for tomorrow's edition.
Commodus... he's a gladiator... is he mad?
Cos, what in hades is the emperor up to? And don't tell me you don't know!
I don't know...
AGH! Please! He's having a secret device constructed for the circus. The brass craftsmen are working overtime.
I'll nose around...
You know there were riots last night. Now the unrest has started again and Commodus has sent for an army division. You understand what you are doing...
Where is my father?
Where is the emperor and the army, soldier?
Tribuus, what happened in the arena? Was Narcissus killed?
He must have been. He was on the list of prisoners to be executed.
Why isn't he dead? Damn you, you promised me he would be dead!
Caesar, I did my best. The Colosseum isn't under my control...
Yes, Caesar?
Jerses  tomorrow...
Tribuus! Go left here, I want to see my new statue at Via Claudia.
Yes, Caesar.
We need more statues  perhaps I should open medical clinics. For the poor. Citizens only, though...
Gladly, Caesar. And, if you'd like we can take you for a tour of the front at first light.
I'm certain father will be in better humors by then. Now, honor us with your presence at dinner. I'll join you as soon as I see my father's physician.
Marcus Aurelius has died.
He left us at dawn.
We must obey our emperor and the Senate.
I met with Falco, and the Senators have agreed to call for a truce with the Germans.
This is the only place in Rome where I thought  I believed  I was wholly in power.
Narcissus will never support you, Caesar, he has too much of a philosophical temperament.
It's because he comes off as the underdog.
Underdog! How can he be an underdog  he wins all the time! I'm the emperor why can't I kill him? He could be poisoned, or somehow killed to look like an accident.
You don't want to kill him. If anything happens to him now you will be blamed... and he knows it. Besides, that gladiator school is a fortress. It would take the army to break in there. What you want is to... offer him the wooden sword. If he takes it, he's no longer the champion of the people, is he? He's gone. And you are a hero for awarding it.
Insubordination. To the Emperor... and the Senate.
Quintus will tell the army that you are being called to Rome to celebrate your victory. They will hear that you are living in luxury. He will let them feel you have betrayed them for the good life. And soon the army won't even remember your name.
The Senate is out to sink you. I swear it, Caesar, your generosity is being repaid with public attacks on your honor. Your enemies want you weak enough so by the first of Janus when you must be confirmed the Senate will be able to deny you.
How can they? Who else is there? I have no heir...
Caesar, ignore them.
Ignore that?! The sooner we leave this disgusting place the better.
At least stay for the running of the animals. You are paying for it you know...
Gods of hell! This must cost a fortune! How many days is this going to go on?
Until your confirmation date.
And like children everywhere they scream "freedom" the most when they desire it least. I beg you, please continue, Caesar.
At the opening of the month of Janus, I will ask this noble body to confirm my emperorship...
Throw it down into the streets! Down into the Forum. If it's my father they want then give him to them!
Yes. You know, that's not a bad idea.
Maybe it'll crush Gaius.
I'm serious.
So am I.
We can crush Gaius another way. What if you do throw something to the people they really want? Make them a gift of food.
Give away food?
Sacks of grain, even bread. I own the grain licenses for the military, I can arrange to divert a shipment bound for the army of the Danube.
Take grain away from the army?
Make a gift to the people. It's your money anyway so it's only fair.
Caesar, let me sponsor your first wager in the arena.
I wouldn't know who to bet on.
Welcome back from your great triumph Narcissus Meridas. My father sends his heart felt praise. Sadly, Marcus is in dark humors  nothing to worry about, but he needs rest. Likely just the weather.
Respectfully Caesar, Quintus and I must report.
Of course, but not now. However, if he continues to be unwell, you may report to me.
Do you expect Marcus to be well enough by morning for an audience?
That's difficult to say, general.
Perhaps, Master Galen, you may say.
Then you'd be out of a job.
Gladly Caesar.
Or perhaps into a new one. But here's to your God and the courage of our legions...
I back Rome against all her enemies  if that answer disappoints you, I'm not a politician...
Oh, but with the army behind you, you could become extremely political. Not a Republican by any chance?
I would say there's nothing more dangerous than a man who knows what 'right' is.
The dangerous man, Caesar, is the man who doesn't care.
But they're not destroyed, not yet.
Do we really need to repair this fort? It seems like an expensive undertaking. I propose we burn it to the ground. That way if the Germans cross the Danube here there will be nothing to help them build an offensive position.
You and my father have become very close. Perhaps one day I may say the same for us.
You flatter me, Caesar.
Being as close, I'm certain you've noticed what we all have noticed.
Caesar?
That this illness has clouded his mind.
I'm ordering a general standdown in preparation for withdrawal back across the Danube.
We have to stop the Germans now!
Forgive me, Caesar, but do two Senator represent the mood of the whole Senate or the will of the Roman people? Besides, every truce we make with the Germans they break!
They won't break this one.
Apparently my opinion wasn't needed.
Where is my family?
Cooperate and they will be returned to your estate. I could have executed you.
And my army would have thrown your body into the Danube.
The army is a problem. They love you. You have led them from victory to victory in the name of Rome and they love you. And after all, you're just a hothead acting from a misguided sense of loyalty  who could fault you for that? Thus have I reached a compromise with the Senate over your fate: instead of executing you, I'm sending you to Rome where you will be tried...
On what charge?
Endorse me in public. Do that and I'll make you rich and set you free. I'll return your estates. I know you would give anything to be outside again. Endorse me and you will be free. Think of it. What would you do with your freedom?
If you set me free I will find my way back to the army, march on Rome and depose you. Then, the army and I will restore the Republic so that animals like you will never control human destinies again.
Where are we now, Commodus? Can you see the camp? My Gods! The air is turning into ice!
We're nearly there, Lucilla.
That's what you told me two days ago!
Will you please get back in your wagon? And stay there?
I'm tired of being stuck in that wagon.
More wine, sister? Surely you can drink more than that.
I was suddenly thinking about going to bed.
Oh, stay... Don't you want to join the chorus of praises for Narcissus' glory? Just remember, he is a married man.
Quite so. Narcissus and his courageous men; may they live long to serve Rome...
And Caesar! Let's not forget to serve Caesar!
Don't you think you should at least wave?
Why? Then they'll notice when I'm gone. Well. I'm making a public appearance aren't I?
They hate me, they really hate me don't they?
Maybe you should get married. Pick one of your cousins, it would demonstrate a profound stability.
I should at least have you, don't you think?
If you get me pregnant with a boy he'll be a double direct heir and will end up killing you for the throne.
Did Narcissus die today? Wasn't this his day to die?
I'm sure, I don't know.
No one in Rome has ever heard of him. Do you want to remind those few in the Senate who have? The whole sordid thing is far beneath your position to begin with. Forget about him.
Let some time pass... then ask, quietly, without anyone knowing it comes from me.
Those are priceless sculptures.
I want every single thing that belonged to my father out of this house! If it's worth something then sell it!
It's disgusting! Animals! I had to come here under armed guard. Slaves  get this junk out of my sight.
Commodus is heaving out every thing that belonged to our father. Except that he can't heave out his ghost.
How about in the forum. Right in front of the Senate.
If I may be so bold...
For the gods, spit it out!
Why not do it in the Colosseum?
Kill him! Tribuus  execute that bastard.
You can't do that! You came here to turn the crowd around not make them hate you.
Tribuus... tomorrow.
You're coming back?
I have to come back. If I don't come back the people will think I'm a coward. Tribuus, tomorrow he dies  I want his blood on the sand. Do you understand?
Where have you been?
Taking my pleasure. Do I need to clear my lovers with you?
You must start clearing everything with me  especially your lovers.
Why are you so surly  you've won, brother. The people have bread and the city is quiet.
What is that... wailing?
The fans of Narcissus. They were on vigil outside the school of Proximo. They believe he's dying.
Now that is a happy sound! Tomorrow, I want the citizens  my people  back in the arena. The Gods know, I'm tired. Come to bed, now; tonight we're celebrating.
What are you talking about?
Now that we're done with that infatuation forever.
If I ever loved Narcissus it wasn't like you want.
But I get what I want, always, don't I?
"... encased in the armor of a demigod, Narcissus The Good continues his impossible climb in the arena where he was unjustly cast..."
Yes? Go on!
"... by the emperor of Rome. This writer asks: between a Senate that debates truth until they choke, an Emperor who has the birth sign of a woman, is it possible there is more virtue within the arena than without?"
Tell Lykas to send a retiarius and a Samnite to help Tiger.
You can't do that... listen to the mood of the crowd.
I want that bastard dead!
You want control of the crowd  you can't get it by killing their hero.
I am their hero!
Not yet, dear brother...
Send them out!
Lykas, pick a man. Someone who will look good. Jerses I want it built up in the Daily Action...
Do you want posters, too?
Damn him! I should have killed him on the front  I let you talk me out of that.
You would have had a full scale revolt on your hands.
What have I got now? It's exactly as if there were two emperors. Because of this the people have two minds. He is their champion.
Very impressive resume. Electronic countermeasures, Strategic Air Command ... Black belt in Karate ... Small arms expert ... Mr. Zeddemore, as you may have heard, we locate ghosts and spirits, trap them with streams of concentrated quantum energy and remove them from people's homes, offices and places of worship.
Yeah, I heard that. Now tell me what you really do.
Hey man. What is it you're so involved with there?
Uh ... Oh these are blueprints of the structural ironwork in Dana Barrett's apartment building ... And they're most unusual.
Are you a Christian, Ray?
Mmmhmmm.
Me, too.
Boy! Solid cores of shielded Selenium .325.
Do you believe in God?
No. But I liked Jesus' style.
Me, too. Parts of the Bible are great.
The whole roof cap was fabricated with a magnesiumtungsten alloy.
Ray, do you remember something in the Bible about a day when the dead would rise up from their graves?
And the seas would boil ...
Right. And the sky would fall ...
Judgement Day ...
Yeah, Judgement Day.
Every ancient religion had its own myth about the end of the world.
Well, has it ever occurred to you that the reason you've been so busy lately is because the dead have been rising from their graves?
You don't have to worry about that with us, sir.
Right. We'll believe anything.
Stantz? You okay in there?
LATER, MAN!!
What's he talking about? Choose what?
What do you mean "choose?" We don't understand.
Excuse me for a minute. Ray, I'm right in the middle of something here. Can you come back in about an hour?
Peter, at 1:40 this afternoon at the main branch of the New York Public Library on Fifth Avenue, ten people witnessed a freeroaming, vaporous, fulltorso apparition. It blew books from shelves at twenty feet away. Scared the socks off some poor librarian.
Sure. That's great, Ray. I think you should get down there right away and check it out. Let me know what happens.
No, this one's for real, Peter. Spengler went down there and took some PKE readings. Right off the top of the scale. Buried the needle. We're close this time. I can feel it.
Spengler and I have charted every psychic occurrence in the TriState area for the past two years. The graph we came up with definitely points to something big.
Ray, as your friend I have to tell you I think you've really gone around the bend on this ghost stuff. You've been running your ass off for two years checking out every schizo in the Five Boroughs who thinks he's had an experience. And what have you seen?
What do you mean by "seen?"
Looked at with your eyes.
Well, I was at an unexplained multiple highaltitude rockfall once.
Uhhuh. I've heard about the rockfall, Ray. I think you've been spending too much time with Spengler.
What is it?
It looks like a big pair of breasts and a pot belly.
I told you it's real.
What do we do now?
I don't know. Talk to it.
What do I say?
Anything! Just make contact.
Hey, Lady? Lady! Can you talk? Who are you? This is not working. Think of something else.
Okay. Okay. I got it. I know what to do. Stay close. I have a plan.
"Get her?" That was your whole plan? You call that science?
I guess I got a little overexcited. Wasn't it incredible! I'm telling you, this is a first. You know what this could mean to the University?
Oh, yeah. This could be bigger than the microchip. They'll probably throw out the entire engineering department and turn their building over to us. We're probably the first serious scientists to ever molest a dead old lady.
If you guys are right, if we can actually trap a ghost and hold it somehow, I think I could win the Nobel Prize.
If anyone deserves it, it's Spengler and me. We're doing all the hard research and designing the equipment.
Yeah, but I introduced you guys. You never would've met if not for me. That's got to be worth something.
You said you floored 'em at the Regents' meeting.
Ray, I apologize. I guess my confidence in the Regents was misplaced. They did this to Galileo, too.
This is like a major disgrace. Forget M.I.T. or Stanford now ... they wouldn't touch us with a threemeter cattle prod.
You're always so worried about your reputation. We don't need the University. Einstein did his best stuff while he was working as a patent clerk.'They can't stop progress.
Do you know what a patent clerk makes? I liked the University. They gave us money, they gave us the facilities and we didn't have to produce anything! I've worked in the private sector. They expect results. You've never been out of college. You don't know what it's like out there.
Let me tell you, Ray, everything in life happens for a reason. Call it fate, call it luck, Karma, whatever. I think we were destined to get kicked out of there.
For what purpose?
To go into business for ourselves.
You'll never regret this, Ray.
My parents left me that house, I was born there.
You're not going to lose the house. Everybody has three mortgages these days.
But at nineteen percent interest! You didn't even bargain with the guy.
But most people are afraid to even report these things.
Maybe. But no one ever advertised before.
Wow! Does this pole still work?
This might do ... I don't know ... it just seems kind of "pricey" for a fixerupper, don't you think? We're trying to keep our costs down. You know how it is when you're starting a new company.
Everybody can relax. I found the car. How do you like it?
Do you think it's wide enough? How much?
Fourteen hundred.
Why don't I check out the building? It may have a history of psychic turbulence.
Good idea. Were any other words spoken that you remember?
How was your date?
It wasn't a date. It was an investigation.
They will.
Do you know when that might be? We're on the brink of a very serious cashflow problem.
So do I.
No sense worrying about it now.
Sure. Each of us is wearing an unlicensed nuclear accelerator on our back. No problem.
I'm getting high readings near the air vents. It must be using the duct system to get around. See, I told you we'd get something.
So far all we got is a shit smell on the twelfth floor and we almost fried a Puerto Rican bellboy.
All right. Let's cool the negative vibes. These things can sense them.
Ray  Something's here.
Where are you, Pete?
Third floor. Get down here,
Sit tight. I'm on my way.
Well, hurry up. The needle's going wild.
It's here, Ray. It's looking at me.
Don't move. It won't hurt you.
How do you know?
I don't know. I'm just guessing.
Boy, that was a rough one.
I can't take much more of this. The pace is killing me.
Egon, how's the grid around the storage facility holding up?
It's not good, Pete.
I guess they don't build them like they used to, huh?
No! Nobody ever built them like this! The architect was either an authentic whacko or a certified genius. The whole building is like a huge antenna for pulling in and concentrating psychokinetic energy.
Who was the architect?
He's listed on the blueprints as I. Shandor.
It doesn't seem to have slowed him down any.
I don't think it's Shandor.
As a dulyconstituted representative of the City of New York, and on behalf of the County and State of New York, the United States of America, the Planet Earth and all its inhabitants, I hereby order you to cease and desist any and all supernatural activity and return at once to your place of origin or next parallel dimension.
Well, that ought to do it.
Agile bastard, isn't he?
Forget the trapping! Just blast him!
I couldn't help it! It just popped in there!
What? What popped in there?
Look!
AND YOU CAME UP WITH THAT?
The StayPuft Marshmallow Man! He was on all the packages we used to buy when I was a kid. We used to roast StayPuft marshmallows at Camp Waconda!
Great! The marshmallows are about to get their revenge.
You know, Peter, this could be a past life experience intruding on the present.
Or even a race memory, stored in the collective unconscious. And I wouldn't rule out clairvoyance or telepathic contact either.
I just realized something. We've never had a completely successful test with any of the equipment.
I blame myself.
Sorry, Buddy!
We'd better adjust our streams.
Ray! Where are you? Are you all right?
God, it's ugly!
It's working!
Easy ... Easy ... I'm going to throw in my trap now.
Set entry grid.
Neutronize. System shut.
I've got to sleep.
I need two new purge valves. How's the grid around the storage facility holding up?
I'm worried, Ray. It's getting crowded in there. And all my recent data points to something big on the bottom.
What happened??!!!?
The storage facility blew. This one ... ... shut off the protection grid.
Look at the structure of the roof cap. It looks exactly like the kind of telemetry tracker NASA uses to identify dead pulsars in other galaxies.
And look at this, Peter Coldriveted girders with selenium cores.
You mean if I stand here and concentrate on the image of Roberto Clemente, Gozer will appear as Roberto Clemente and wipe us out?
That appears to be the case.
Oh! You're here.
What have you got, Egon?
Oh, this is big, Peter. This is very big. There's definitely something here.
Egon, somehow this reminds me of the time you tried to drill a hole in your head. Do you remember that?
Spengler, are you serious about actually catching a ghost?
I'm always serious.
Wow!
Just for your information, Ray, the interest payments alone for the first five years come to over $75,000.
Will you guys relax? We are on the threshold of establishing the indispensable defense science of the next decade  Professional Paranormal Investigations and Eliminations. The franchise rights alone will make us wealthy beyond your wildest dreams.
Generally, you don't see that kind of behavior in a major appliance. What do you think, Egon?
She's telling the truth  or at least she thinks she is.
Did you see anything?
Didn't see anything, Didn't get anything. Nice girl  no ghost. I'm starting to worry. You said your graph was pointing to something big. You told me things were going to start popping.
Something was definitely here.
Yeah, I can smell it.
Wait! Wait! There's something I forgot to tell you.
What?
Don't cross the beams.
Why not?
Trust me. It will be bad.
What do you mean "bad?"
It's hard to explain, but try to imagine all life as you know it stopping instantaneously and finding yourself confined forever in another dimension.
It's Peter, Egon. I've got a problem.
What is it?
I'm with Dana Barrett and she's floating three feet off the bed.
Does she want to be?
I don't think so. It's more of that Gozer thing. She says she's the Gatekeeper. Does that make any sense to you?
Some. I just met the Keymaster. He's here with me now. Venkman? Are you there?
Yeah, yeah. I was just thinking. It probably wouldn't be a good idea for them to get together at this point.
I agree.
You have to keep him there. Do whatever you have to, but don't let him leave, He could be very dangerous.
All right. I'll try.
I'll spend the night here and get back first thing in the morning.
All right, Peter. Good night.
He wants to shut down the storage grid.
If you turn that thing off we won't be responsible for the consequences.
Where's the Keymaster?
Oh, shit!
Of course! Ivo Shandor, I saw his name in Tobin's SPIRIT GUIDE. He started a secret society in 1920.
Let me guess  Gozer Worshippers.
Yes. After the First World War Shandor decided that society was too sick to survive. And he wasn't alone. He had close to a thousand followers when he died. They conducted rituals, bizarre rituals, intended to bring about the end of the world.
She said he was "the Destructor."
Who?
Gozer.
You talked to Gozer?
Get a grip on yourself, Egon. I talked to Dana Barrett and she referred to Gozer as the Destructor.
What now?
Fullstream with strogon pulse.
On the count of three! One ... Two ...
No! Them! Shoot them! Cross the beams.
No! You said crossing the beams would be BAD. It'll kill her! And us!
Life is just a state of mind.
But it's my favorite state.
Yes?
Were you recently in the bathroom?
What on earth gave you that idea?
The wet towels, residual moisture on your lower limbs and hair, the redness in your cheeks indicating ...
You're a regular Sherlock Holmes. Now what do you want?
When you were in the bathroom, did you notice anything that was yellow and unusually smelly?
Hey, Mister! Can I see those guns?
They're not guns. They're particle throwers.
Yeah, yeah. I just want to see 'em.
I couldn't do that. You might hurt someone.
Wait! Wait! Let me ask you something. If you like shot Superman with those guns, would he feel it or what?
On Earth  no. But on Krypton we could slice him up like Oscar Mayer Bologna.
Wow!
All right. What is it?
A square?
Good guess  but no.
Circle?
Close  but definitely wrong.
Nervous?
Yes. I don't like this.
Well, just 75 more to go. What's this one?
Two wavy lines?
Sorry. This isn't your day.
Hey! I'm getting a little tired of this.
You volunteered, didn't you? Aren't we paying you for this?
Yeah, but I didn't know you were going to give me electric shocks. What are you trying to prove?
I'm studying the effect of negative reinforcement on ESP ability.
I'll tell you the effect! It pisses me off!
Then my theory was correct.
Can I help you?
I'm Walter Peck. I represent the Environmental Protection Agency, Third District.
Great! How's it going?
Are you Peter Venkman?
Yes, I'm Doctor Venkman.
Exactly what are you a doctor of, Mr. Venkman?
I have Ph.D's in psychology and parapsychology.
I see. And now you catch ghosts?
You could say that.
And how many ghosts have you caught, Mr. Venkman?
I'm not at liberty to say.
And where do you put these ghosts once you catch them?
In a storage facility.
And would this storage facility be located on these premises?
Yes, it would.
And may I see this storage facility?
No, you may not.
And why not, Mr. Venkman?
Because you didn't say the magic word.
And what is the magic word, Mr. Venkman?
The magic word is "please."
May I please see the storage facility?
Why do you want to see it?
Well, because I'm curious. I want to know more about what you do here. Frankly, there have been a lot of wild stories in the media and we want to assess any possible environmental impact from your operation. For instance, the storage of noxious, possibly hazardous waste materials in your basement. Now either you show me what's down there or I come back with a court order.
Go ahead! Get a court order. Then I'm gonna sue your ass off for wrongful prosecution.
Have it your way, Mr. Venkman.
Hey! Make yourself useful! Go save a tree!
At ease, Officers. I'm Peter Venkman. I think there's been some kind of misunderstanding here and I want to cooperate in every way I can.
Forget it, Venkman. You had your chance to cooperate but you thought it was more fun to insult me. Now it's my turn, smartass.
You turned off the power! Look, there was another man here ... You have to find him and bring him back. A short determinedlooking guy with the eyes of a happy zombie.
See! They are using drugs.
The man is a psychopath, Your Honor.
Probably a mixture of gases, no doubt stolen from the Army ...
Mr. Mayor, it's a pretty simple choice. You can believe Mr. Pecker here ...
That's "Peck!"
... or you can accept the fact that this city is heading for a disaster of really Biblical proportions.
Thank you for coming so quickly. The guests are starting to ask questions and I'm running out of excuses.
Has this ever happened before?
Well, most of the original staff knows about the twelfth floor ... The disturbances, I mean ... But it's been quiet for years ... Up until two weeks ago ... It was never ever this bad, though.
Did you ever report it to anyone?
Heavens, no! The owners don't like us to even talk about it. I hoped we could take care of this quietly tonight.
Yes, sir. Don't worry. We handle this kind of thing all the time.
Why don't you step into the office and we'll talk about it. Hold all my calls, Janine.
What calls?
Here's the paper on the Brooklyn job. She paid with a Visa card.
Here are tonight's calls.
And someone from the EPA is here to see you.
The EPA? What's he want?
I didn't ask him. All I know is that I haven't had a break in two weeks and you promised you'd hire more help.
Janine, I'm sure a woman with your qualifications would have no trouble finding a top flight job in the housekeeping or food service industry.
Oh, really? Well, I've quit better jobs than this one, believe me.
You're very handy, I can tell. I bet you like to read a lot, too.
Print is dead.
That's very fascinating to me. I read a lot myself. Some people think I'm too intellectual. But I think reading is a fabulous way to spend your spare time. I also play racketball. Do you ever play?
Is that a game?
It's a great game! You should play sometime. I bet you'd be good. You seem very athletic. Do you have any hobbies?
I collect spores, molds and fungus.
Oh, that's very  unusual.
I think it's the food of the future.
Remind me not to go to lunch with you.
Egon, there's something very strange about that man. I'm very psychic usually and right now I have this terrible feeling that something awful is going to happen to you. I'm afraid you're going to die.
Die in what sense?
In the physical sense.
I don't care. I see us as tiny parts of a vast organism, like two bacteria living on a rotting speck of dust floating in an infinite void.
That's so romantic.
I want you to have this.
What is it?
It's a souvenir from the 1964 World's Fair at Flushing Meadow. It's my lucky coin.
I don't believe in luck.
Keep it anyway. I have another one at home.
Thank you.
Hello, I'm Roger Delacorte  the Head Librarian. Are you the men from the University?
Yes. I'm Dr. Venkman and this is Dr. Stantz.
Thank you for coming. I'd appreciate it if we could take care of this quickly and quietly.
One thing at a time. We don't even know what it is yet.
What's that got to do with it?
Back off, man! I'm a scientist!
Did you see it? What was it?
We'll get back to you.
That is one speedy mutt.
He's a big one. You don't want to mess with that particular breed.
Definitely some sort of fighting Spaniel, I think.
Well, that definitely looks like marshmallow to me.
Yeah, it's some kind of mallowtype substance  that's for sure.
You have to wonder why anybody would dump a marshmallow that size right in the middle of the street.
I wonder if there might not be a very large cup of hot chocolate somewhere in the area.
That would definitely explain it.
I trust you're moving us to a better space somewhere on campus.
No, we're moving you OFF CAMPUS. The Board of Regents has decided to terminate your grant. You are to vacate these premises immediately.
This is preposterous! I demand an explanation.
Fine. This University will no longer continue any funding of any kind for your group's activities.
But why? The students love us!
Dr. Venkman, we believe that the purpose of science is to serve mankind. You, however, seem to regard science as some kind of "dodge" or "hustle." Your theories are the worst kind of popular tripe, your methods are sloppy and your conclusions are highly questionable. You're a poor scientist, Dr. Venkman, and you have no place in this department or in this University.
I see.
Hello. I'm Peter Venkman. May I help you?
Yes ... well ... I'm not sure. What I have to say may sound a little ... unusual.
We're all professionals here, Miss ...
Barrett. Dana Barrett.
... and then I opened the door again but it was gone. There was nothing there.
So what do you think it was?
Why would anyone make up a thing like that?
Some people like the attention. Some people are just crazy.
Is that your professional opinion?
It's in the stars.
No, just that one word  Zuul  but I have no idea what it means.
Spengler, see if you can find the word "Zuul" in any of the literature. I'll take Miss Barrett home and check out her apartment.
Have you ever thought of moving out  at least until this disturbance blows over?
No. If I moved out now I'd be acknowledging that what happened was real. I'm not ready to do that.
You play the cello! It's my favorite instrument.
Really? Do you have a favorite piece?
I'd have to say Prokofiev's third concerto.
That's a violin concerto.
Yeah, but it's got a great cello break.
You really don't act like a scientist.
No? What do I act like?
Like a used car salesman.
Thanks. What's in there?
That's too bad.
What?
Nothing. Is that the kitchen?
Uhhuh.
Well, let's check it out.
I'll wait here if you don't mind.
You're quite a housekeeper.
I told you, I ...
I know. It happened by itself.
Damn!
Are you all right?
Yeah, yeah.
There's nothing there now and I don't get any significant readings.
This is terrible. Either there's a monster in my kitchen or I'm completely crazy.
If it's any comfort to you, I don't think you're crazy.
Thanks. Coming from you that really means a lot to me.
I'm a qualified psychologist. I've got a degree and everything. I believe that something happened here and I want to do something about it.
All right. What do you want to do?
I think I should spend the night here.
That's it. Get out.
On a purely scientific basis.
Out!
I want to help you.
I'll scream.
Don't scream.
Then leave.
Okay, okay. But if anything else happens, you have to promise you'll call me.
All right.
Okay. Then I'll go.
Goodbye.
No kiss?
Great rehearsal.
You heard it?
You're the best one in your row.
Most people can't hear me with the whole orchestra playing. You're good.
I don't have to take abuse from you. I have other people dying to give it to me.
I know. You're quite a celebrity these days. Are you here because you have info ... about my case?
Who's the stiff?
The "stiff?" He happens to be one of the finest musicians in the world and a wonderful man.
Is he dying or something?
He is a very close friend. Do you have some explanation of what happened in my apartment?
Yes, but I have to tell you in private at a fine restaurant.
Can't you tell me now?
I'll cancel the reservation, I found the name "Zuul" in ... The Roylance Guide to Secret Societies and Sects. I don't suppose you've read it.
You must have gotten the last copy.
Well, the name Zuul refers to a demigod worshipped around 6000 B.C. by the ... What's that say?
Hittites, the Mesopotamians and the Sumerians. "Zuul was the Minion of Gozer."
"Gozer"  he was very big in the Sumerian religion. One of their gods.
What's he doing in my refrigerator.
I'm checking on that. I think we should meet Thursday night at nine to talk about it.
I don't think so. I'm busy Thursday night.
You think I enjoy giving up my evenings to spend time with clients? I'm making an exception because I respect you as an artist and as a dresser.
All right. Since you put it that way.
I'll pick you up at your place. I'll bring along the Roylance Guide  we can read after we eat.
I've got to go now.
Hey, Dana. What is it? What happened?
I am Zuul. I am the Gatekeeper.
We must prepare for the coming of Gozer.
Okay, I'll help you. Should we make some dip or something?
He is the Destructor.
Really? Can't wait to meet him. As long as we're waiting for him, I'd really like to try something with you  in the bedroom.
Do you want this body?
Well, I'll just use it for a while and get it right back to you.
Take me now.
Actually, it's more of a policy than a rule.
I want you inside me.
I don't know. You've got two people in there already. It could get a little crowded. I want you to close your eyes and relax. Now I'm going to speak to Dana and I want Dana to answer.
I am Zuul. I am ...
Right ... You're the Gatekeeper. But I want Dana. Dana, speak to me ...
There is no Dana. I am Zuul.
Whoa!! Nice voice.
Nothing! We just got rid of that thing in your kitchen.
Really! Is it gone?
Yeah, along with most of your furniture and a lot of your personal possessions. This one took some work.
Thank you. Next time I want to break a lease I'll know who to call.
This is going to cost you, you know. Our fees are ridiculously high.
Talk to my accountant.
Oh, Dana, it's you ...
Hi, Louis.
... I thought it was the drug store.
Are you sick, Louis?
Oh, no, I feel great. I just ordered some more vitamins. I see you were exercising. So was I. I taped "20 Minute Workout" and played it back at high speed so it only took ten minutes and I got a really good workout. You wanna have a mineral water with me?
No thanks, Louis. I'm really tired. I've been rehearsing all morning.
Okay. I'll take a raincheck. I always have plenty of mineral water and other nutritious health foods, but you know that. Listen, that reminds me, I'm having a party for all my clients. It's gonna be my fourth anniversary as an accountant. I know you fill out your own tax return, but I'd like you to come being that you're my next door neighbor and all ...
Oh, that's nice, Louis. I'll stop by if I'm around.
You know you shouldn't leave your TV on so loud when you go out. That creep down the hall phoned the manager.
I thought I turned it off. I guess I forgot.
Oh, Dana, it's you.
Hi, Louis.
Hey, it's crazy in here. You're missing a classic party.
Well, actually Louis I have a friend coming by.
Great! Bring her, too. But you better hurry. I made nachos with nonfat cheese and they're almost gone. I'll make some more though.
Fine, Louis. We'll stop in for a drink.
I got the Twister game for later ...
Are you the Gatekeeper?
I am Zuul.
Oh, sure. I'm getting used to this.
I'm innocent! Honest, Dana. I never touched you. Not that I remember anyway.
All right, what happened to me?
Is it a star?
It is a star! That's great. You're very good.
Ready? What is it?
Ummm  figure eight?
Incredible! Five for five. You're not cheating on me here, are you?
No. They're just coming to me.
Well, you're doing great. Keep it up.
Well, I guess some people have it and some don't.
Do you think I have it, Dr. Venkman?
Definitely. I think you may be a very gifted telepath.
Okay. Just give me a second here. I have to leave now but if you've got some time I'd like you to come back this evening and do some more work with me.
Eight o'clock?
I was just going to say "eight." You're fantastic!
Aren't you glad we waited?
I don't know. It probably would've been the same.
Well, thanks a lot.
Roy? Your clock broke.
Nice going, honey. It was brand new.
I didn't break your precious clock, Roy!
Now where are you going?
To the bathroom, where do you think?
Have I done the right thing?
Hey, sweetheart, will you CUT THAT OUT!!!
Uuuuuuugh!!
What's the matter, dear?
I don't care what you say. This could be a major Christmas gift item.
Right, and the first time someone gets mad, their toaster will eat their hand.
So we'll put a warning on the label.
Tell him about the toaster.
I don't think he's ready for the toaster.
It better not start yet. I'm trying to finish my potholder before lunch.
You think all those predictions about the world coming to an end in the 1990s are true?
And pure 
And decent.
Kind of makes you wonder, doesn't it?
Wonder what?
If she's naked under that toga. She's French, you know.
How deep does it get? That water's cold and I can't swim.
It's okay. I have my Senior Lifesaving card.
My people weren't taking any pictures from those slave ships, man. And there wasn't any Statue in Charleston Harbor to welcome them, either. What are you, Dana?
Miss Blue Blood? Her family's been here since the year 12.
Ready?
I'm ready.
Then let's do it.
That's it, Ray. I've had it. No more parties. I'm tired of taking abuse from overprivileged nineyearolds.
Come on, Winston. We can't quit now. The holidays are coming up. It's our best season.
Give it up, Ray. You're living in the past. Ghostbusters doesn't exist anymore. In a year these kids won't even remember who we are.
Ungrateful little Yuppie larvae. After all we did for this city.
Yeah, what did we do, Ray? The last real job we had we bubbled up a hundred foot marshmallow man and blew the top three floors off an uptown highrise.
Yeah, but what a ride. You can't make a hamburger without chopping up a cow.
Does it have any favorites?
It likes all the sappy stuff: 'Cumbaya,' 'Everything is Beautiful,' 'It's a Small World'  but it loves Jackie Wilson.
And he didn't die of old age either. He was poisoned, stabbed, shot, hung, stretched, disemboweled, drawn and quartered.
I guess he wasn't too popular at the end there.
You got a flux and a half.
Now if you don't want to be the   fifth person ever to die in metashock from a planar rift, I suggest you get down behind that desk and don't move until we give you the signal "Stabilize  All Clear."
Now that's one ugly dude.
Huh? What?
You finished here?
What? Yeah.
Are you all right? You coming down with something?
No, I'm fine. I just got lightheaded for a second there. Let's go.
Are you telling me how to drive?
No, I just thought 
Well don't think!
Are you all right?
Yeah, I guess so. It was the strangest thing. I knew what I was doing but I couldn't stop. This really terrible feeling came over me and  I don't know  I just felt like driving into that tree and ending it all. Whew! Sorry, boys.
Nice going, Ray! What were you trying to do  drown me?
Look, Zeddemore, it wasn't my fault you were too stupid to drop that line.
You better watch your mouth, man, or I'll punch your lights out.
Oh yeah? Anytime, anytime. Just go ahead and try it.
What are we doing? Ray, I was ready to kill you.
Don't you see? It's the slime. That stuff is like pure, concentrated evil.
She's moving!
I've lived in New York all my life and I never visited the Statue of Liberty. Now I finally get here and we're taking her out for a walk.
Ray  Ray  How do you feel, man?
Groovy. I've never felt better in my life.
Oh, hello, perhaps you could help me. I'm looking for an aerosol love potion I could spray on a certain Penthouse Pet that would make her unconditionally submit to an unusual personal request.
Oh, hiya, Pete.
So, no goat hooves, huh?
I knew that voice sounded familiar. What's up? How's it going?
Nowhere  fast. Why don't you lock up and buy me a sub?
Uh, I can't. I'm kind of working on something.
Great. So what are you guys working on?
Oh, just checking something for an old friend.
Who?
Who? Just  someone we know.
Oh, Ray 
Who? Who? Who?
Aaah! Nobody! I can't tell you!
Who, Ray?
Dana! Dana Barrett!
Well, Holmes, what do you think?
It's an interesting one, Pete. If anything was going on it's totally subdued now.
What's that?
Egon and I have been working on a gauge to measure psychomagnetheric energy in GEVs  giga electron volts.
I love this. We're onto something really big. I can smell it, Ray. We're going to make some headlines with this one.
Hey, hey, hey, stresshound! Are you nuts? If anybody found out about this we'd be in serious trouble. The judge couldn't have been clearer  no ghostbusting.
Relax. We're going to keep this whole thing nice and quiet, low key, no profile.
Geez, I forgot how heavy these things are.
Okay, let's heat 'em up!
I'm Ray 
I'm Peter 
Careful, Winston. He's a mean one. And to celebrate our grand reopening, we're giving you twice the value with our special halfprice 'Welcome Back' service plan.
Hold on, Ray! Halfprice! Have you gone crazy?
I guess so, Pete, because that's not all. Tell them what else we've got, Egon.
You know he ran that last lap in under six minutes?
If he wasn't dead he'd be an Olympic prospect.
Oh good, you're here. Spengler and I have something really amazing to show you.
It's not that thing you do with your nostrils, is it?
And now you're going to eat it?
No, I'm just restoring it to its normal state.
This is what you do with your spare time?
This is an incredible breakthrough, Venkman. A psychoreactive substance! Whatever this is, it clearly responds to human emotional states.
'Mood slime.' We ought to bottle this stuff and sell it.
Like a goat on garbage.
We're running tests to see if we can get an equally strong positive reaction.
What kind of tests?
Well, we sing to it, we talk to it, we say supportive, nurturing things 
You're not sleeping with this stuff, are you?
Did you find anything at Dana's?
Nothing. Just some moodslime residue in and around the bathtub. But we did turn up some interesting stuff on this Vigo character you mentioned. I found the name Vigo the Carpathian in Leon Zundinger's Magicians, Martyrs and Madmen. Listen to this:
Beautiful, beautiful. Work with me, baby. Just have fun with it. Okay, he's playing it cool. Let's finish up and get out of here.
I'll get one more reading.
What happened?
You just picked up three penalty points on your driver's license.
Don't tell me, let me guess. Allyoucaneat barbecue rib night at the Sizzler?
We're going down into the sewer system to see if we can trace the source of the psychoreactive slime flow. We thought you might want to come along.
Darn it! I wish I'd known you were going. I'm stuck with these damn dinner reservations.
I think we're going to have to pass on the sewer trip, boys. Let me know what you find out.
Okay, but you're missing all the fun.
You should've been there, Venkman. Absolutely incredible!
Yeah, sorry I missed it. I guess you guys didn't know about the dress code here. It's really kind of a coat and tie place.
It's all over the city, Pete  well, under it actually.
It looks like a giant Jello mold.
I hate Jello.
Forget it. The Vienna Boys Choir couldn't get through this stuff.
Good effort. Now what? Should we say supportive, nurturing things to it, Ray?
I hope we have enough stuff to do the job.
Only one way to find out. Ready, Teddy?
I'll keep to the middle of the channel. We're okay to 59th Street, then we'll go ashore and take First Avenue to 79th.
Are you kidding? We'll hit all that bridge traffic at 59th. I'm going to take 72nd straight up to Fifth. Trust me, I used to drive a cab.
I don't think they make Nikes in her size.
We're almost there, Lib. Step on it.
My Fault!
She's new in town.
Vigi, Vigi, Vigi  you have been a bad little monkey.
The whole city's together on this one. We took a vote. Everybody's down on you, you know.
I think she looks pretty good here, don't you?
Yeah, and a lot easier to get to than that island.
My greatgrandparents were Swiss. I still have the pictures they took of the statue from the boat when they arrived.
Oh, right, you told me that. They came to America seeking other kinds of cheese, as I recall. How about you, Winston?
What's your story, Pete?
Me? I'm a little of everything. Some Irish, some German, some French, Dutch  the women in my family slept around. And that's what made this country great.
We've found it at every event site we've been to lately.
You mean this stuff actually feeds on 'bad vibes'?
There's definitely something going on in that studio. The PKE levels were maxplus and the Gigameter was showing all red.
I'd put my money on that Vigo character.
Is the line sinking?
No, the slime is rising.
Rivers of the stuff!
And it's all flowing toward the museum.
Late Renaissance, I think. Caravaggio or Brunelleschi.
There's something very familiar about this painting.
Who was that?
Some crank. Looking for goat hooves. Come up with anything?
This one's interesting. Berlin, 1939, a flower cart took off by itself and rolled approximately half a kilometer over level ground. Three hundred eyewitnesses.
You might want to check those Duke University mean averaging studies on controlled psychokinesis.
Good idea.
Nothing. Not a trace.
Why don't we try the Gigameter?
The New York Pneumatic Railway. It was an experimental subway system. Fanforced airtrains, built around 1870.
This is about as deep as you can go under Manhattan without digging your own hole.
What's the reading?
Seems like a pretty openminded guy, huh?
His nickname is "The Hammer."
Hey, I didn't imagine it. There must have been ten thousand gallons of it down there.
It may be ebbing and flowing from some tidal source.
I'm Egon 
And we're the ...
No, not exactly a man of the people. "Also known as Vigo the Cruel, Vigo the Torturer, Vigo the Despised, and Vigo the Unholy."
This guy was a bad monkey. He dabbled in all the Black Arts, and listen to this prophecy. Just before his head died, his last words were, "Death is but a door, time is but a window. I'll be back."
Six feet  seven  eight 
That's it. It's on the bottom.
Nine feet  ten 
If you two are looking for a fight, you got one. Who wants it first? Come on, Ray. Try me, sucker.
Butt out, you pencilnecked geek. I've had it with you.
It won't work. There's no way we could generate enough positive energy to crack that shell.
I can't believe things have gotten so bad in this city that there's no way back. Sure, it's crowded, it's dirty, it's noisy. And there are too many people who'd just as soon step on your face as look at you. But there've got to be a few sparks of sweet humanity left in this burnedout burg. We just have to mobilize it.
We need something that everyone can get behind, a symbol 
Something that appeals to the best in each and every one of us 
Something good 
Don't shoot! You'll hit Ray!
Do it! Just do it!
Egon!
Hello, Venkman.
How've you been? How's teaching? I bet those science chicks really dig that big cranium of yours, huh?
I think they're more interested in my epididymis.
I don't even want to know where that is.
I'd like to have a stool specimen
Yeah, you would. Is that for personal or professional reasons?
What now, Brainiac?
I think we should see if we can find anything abnormal on the street.
Finding something abnormal on the street shouldn't be too hard.
That's a thousand million electron volts.
I knew that.
You were supposed to help me with this.
You need the exercise.
"Vigo the Carpathian, born 1505, died 1610 "
A hundred and five years? He really hung on, didn't he.
That's it? "I'll be back?"
It's a rough translation from the Moldavian.
You know, animals and lower life forms often anticipate major disasters. Given the new magnetheric readings we could see a tremendous breeding surge in the cockroach population.
Roach breeding? Sounds better and better. Dana? The boys are going down under the sewers tonight to look for slime. Egon thinks there might even be some kind of big roachbreeding surge. Should we forget about dinner and go with them instead?
Boys, listen. You're scaring the straights. Let's save this until tomorrow, okay?
This won't wait until tomorrow, Venkman. It's hot and it's ready to pop.
It's working. The positive GeV's are climbing.
They love you, Lib. Keep it up.
So far so good.
I'm worried. The vibrations could shake her to pieces. We should have padded her feet.
Pretty impressive, huh?
It's probably the first thing my grandparents saw when they came to this country.
From where  Neptune?
They came from Ostrov in Eastern Poland.
Ostrov? I've been there. Good party town.
Yes, I did. We were city champs.
Objection. Irrelevant and immaterial.
So, Dr. Venkman, please explain to the court why it is you and your codefendants took it upon yourselves to dig a big hole in the middle of the street.
Seventyseventh and First Avenue has so many holes already we didn't think anyone would notice.
I'll ask you again, Dr. Venkman. Why were you digging the hole? And please remember that you're under oath.
I had my fingers crossed when they swore me in, but I'm going to tell you the truth. There are things in this world that go way beyond human understanding, things that can't be explained and that most people don't want to know about anyway. That's where we come in.
So what are you saying? That the world of the supernatural is your special province?
No, I guess I'm just saying that shit happens and somebody has to deal with it.
Hi, welcome back to the 'World of the Psychic,' I'm Peter Venkman and I'm chatting with my guest, author, lecturer and of course, psychic, Milton Anglund. Milt, your new book is called The End of the World. Isn't that kind of like writing about gum disease. Yes, it could happen, but do you think anybody wants to read a book about it?
Well, I think it's important for people to know that the world is in danger.
Okay, so can you tell us when it's going to happen or do we have to buy the book?
I predict that the world will end at the stroke of midnight on New Year's Eve.
This year? That's cutting it a little close, isn't it? I mean, just from a sales point of view, the book just came out, right? So you're not even looking at the paperback release for maybe a year. And it's going to be at least another year after that if the thing has movieoftheweek or miniseries potential. You would have been better off predicting 1992 or even '94 just to be safe.
This is not just some moneymaking scheme! I didn't just make up the date. I have a strong psychic belief that the world will end on New Year's Eve.
Well, for your sake, I hope you're right. But I think my other guest may disagree with you. Elaine, you had another date in mind?
Come on, Sherm. You're my cousin. Do this for me. I'm begging you.
I can't do it, Louis. It isn't ethical. I could lose my license.
Why can't you just have them released? You're a doctor.
I'm a dermatologist. I can't write orders on the psych ward.
Sherman, I've done lots of favors for you.
Like what?
I got you out of those bad tax shelters.
You were the one who got me in.
I fixed you up with Diane Troxler and she put out, didn't she?
Yeah, I had to give her free dermabrasion for a year. Forget it, Louis. I could get in a lot of trouble.
I'm telling you, we're all going to be in big trouble if we don't do something fast. That ghost guy came and took my friend's baby and we got to get it back. It's just a scared little baby, Sherm.
Then you should go to the police. I don't believe in any of that stuff.
This is my cousin Sherman. Sherm, say hello to the Ghostbusters. I promised him a ride in the car if he got you out.
Hi, it's really great to meet you guys. I know this sounds weird but once I had a dream that my grandfather was standing at the foot of my bed, but I knew it was impossible because he died and he started to tell me that 
Hey! Wait! Okay, I'll meet you there.
I thought you were like the fifth Ghostbuster.
I let them handle all the little stuff. I just come in on the big ones.
The witness is leading him. Sustained.
Okay, let me rephrase that question. Didn't you once coach a basketball team for underprivileged children?
Sustained. Mr. Tully, do you have anything to ask this witness that may have some bearing on this case?
Do I?
Your honor, may I approach the bench?
Yes.
Can I have some of your water?
Get on with it, counselor!
Your honor, ladies and gentlemen of the  audience. I don't think it's fair to call my clients frauds. Okay, the blackout was a big problem for everybody. I was stuck in an elevator for about three hours and I had to go to the bathroom the whole time, but I don't blame them because once I turned into a dog and they helped me. Thank you.
That's it? That's all you have to say?
Did I forget something?
Keep that up, mister, and I'll find you in contempt.
Sorry, your Honor, but when somebody sets me up like that I can't resist.
You've got to do something!
Who are they?
They're the Scoleri Brothers. I tried them for murder. They were electrocuted up at Ossining in '48. Now they want to kill me.
Maybe they just want to appeal.
These boys aren't playing around.
You've got to stop them. Please!
I, Vigo, the scourge of Carpathia, the sorrow of Moldavia, command you.
Command me, lord.
On a mountain of skulls in a castle of pain, I sat on a throne of blood. What was will be, what is will be no more. Now is the season of evil. Find me a child that I might live again.
I, Vigo, the scourge of Carpathia 
Yes, the scourge 
 the sorrow of Moldavia 
 the sorrow 
I command you.
I await the word of Vigo.
The season of evil begins with the birth of the new year. Bring me the child that I might live again.
Lord Vigo, the mother, Dana, is fine and strong. I was wondering  well, would it be possible  if I bring the baby, could I have the woman?
So be it. On this the day of darkness, she will be ours, wife to you and mother to me.
Pleasure to meet you. I've seen you on television.
How are you? What's that you're working on, Johnny?
It's a painting I'm restoring for the new Byzantine exhibition. It's a selfportrait of Prince Vigo, the Carpathian. He ruled most of Carpathia and Moldavia in the 17th Century.
Too bad for the Moldavians.
JANOSZ +++$+++
We don't go around altering valuable paintings, Dr. Venkman.
Well, I'd make an exception in this case if I were you.
I'll let you get back to it. Nice meeting you.
My pleasure.
Dr. Venkman? Dana is not here.
I know.
Then why have you come?
We got a major creep alert and we're just going down the list. Your name was first.
You know, I never got to ask you. Where you from, Johnny?
The Upper West Side.
This is the one that looked at Dana.
It must be the chemical fumes in the studio. People start imagining things 
I'm going to rule out the gluesniffing theory. If she says it looked at her, it looked at her. Hey, you! Vigie! Look at me. I'm talking to you. Hey! Look at me when I'm talking to you.
So you see, everything is in order, is it not?
Not. Don't leave town and report any change in your address to the proper authorities. We'll be back.
You pitiful, miserable creatures! You dare to challenge the power of darkness? Don't you realize what you are dealing with? He's Vigo! You are like the buzzing of flies to him.
Oh, Johnny. Did you back the wrong horse.
What is it, honey?
It's that darn ghost again! I don't know what to do anymore. He just won't leave us alone. I guess we'll just have to move.
Don't worry. We're not moving. He is.
Who are you going to call?
Ghostbusters.
Oh migod! I'm sorry. I didn't mean to do that. It was an accident.
What are you doing up here?
I was trying to get that smelly green thing. The guys asked me to help out. I'm like the fifth Ghostbuster.
Why would you want to be a Ghostbuster if you're already an accountant?
Oh, no, it's just if one of the guys calls in sick or gets hurt.
Have you made any plans yet? You know tomorrow is New Year's Eve.
No, I celebrate at the beginning of my corporate tax year which is March first. That way I beat the crowds.
That's very practical. I hate going out on New Year's Eve, too.
Well, good night, Louis.
Janine, do you feel like maybe getting something to eat on the way home?
I'd like to, but I told Dr. Venkman I'd babysit. Do you want to babysit with me?
Oh, sure, that sounds great.
I can't believe a person could actually live like this.
So these dwarfs had a limited partnership in a small mining operation and then one day a beautiful princess came to live with them.
It's really not a bad place. It just needs a woman's touch.
So they bartered room and board in exchange for housekeeping services, which was a good deal for all of them because then they didn't have to withhold tax and social security, which I'm not saying is right but it's just a story, so I guess it's all right. I can finish this later if you're tired.
You're really good with children, Louis. I can tell. Why don't you come here and sit with me?
Okay.
Motherhood is a very natural instinct for me. I'd like to have a baby myself. Wouldn't you?
Tonight?
Should we go?
I don't think we should leave her alone.
You're right. We should stay.
I'm not sure this is such a good idea? Do they know you're doing this?
Oh, yeah, sure  no. But there's really not much to do here and they might need some backup at the museum.
You're very brave, Louis. Good luck.
Can I help you?
Yeah, you can get your hand off my chest.
I'm Jack Hardemeyer. I'm the mayor's assistant. What can I do for you?
I'm an old friend of the mayor's. I just want to say hello to him.
I know who you are, Doctor Venkman. Busting any ghosts lately?
No, that's what I want to talk to the mayor about. We did a little job for the city a while back and we ended up getting sued, screwed and tattooed by deskworms like you.
Look, you stay away from the mayor. Next fall, barring a disaster, he's going to be elected governor of this state and the last thing we need is for him to be associated with twobit frauds and publicity hounds like you and your friends. You read me?
That's quite a story.
Yeah, I think the Times might be interested, don't you? The Post might have a lot of fun with it, too.
Before you go running to the newspapers with this, would you consider telling this slime thing to some people downtown?
Now you're talking.
Look, I've had it with you. Get your stuff together, get back in that clown car and get out of here. This is a city matter and everything's under control.
Oh, you think so? Well, I've got news for you. You've got Dracula's brotherinlaw in there and he's got my girlfriend and her kid. Around about midnight tonight, when you're partying uptown, this guy's going to come to life and start doing amateur head transplants. And that's just round one.
According to my sources, the world will end on February 14, in the year 2016.
Valentine's Day. That's got to be a bummer. Where did you get that date, Elaine?
I received this information from an alien. I was at the Paramus Holiday Inn, I was having a drink in the bar when he approached me and started talking. Then he must have used some sort of ray or a mind control device because he made me follow him to his room and that's where he told me about the end of the world.
Your alien had a room in the Holiday Inn?
It may have been a room on the spacecraft made up to look like a room in the Holiday Inn. I can't be sure, Peter.
No, you can't, and I think that's the whole problem with aliens; you just can't trust them. You may get some nice ones occasionally like Starman or E.T., but most of them turn out to be some kind of lizard. Anyway, we're just about out of time. Next week on 'World of the Psychic,' hairless pets. Until then, this is Peter Venkman saying ... ... Good night.
Hi, Ray. It's good to see you. Thanks for coming.
No problem. Always glad to help  and hug.
Hi, Egon.
Is this the spot?
A little to the left. Right there! That's where it stopped.
I think we hit the honeypot, boys. There's something brewing under the street.
Peter, do you think maybe I have some genetic problem or something that makes me vulnerable to these supernatural things.
Sorry!
Maybe we should discuss this somewhere else.
Hello, Peter.
You know, Dana, I'm very very hurt that you didn't call me first. I'm still into all this stuff, you know. Haven't you ever seen my show?
I have. That's why I didn't call you first.
I can see that you're still very bitter about us, but in the interest of science, I'm going to give it my best shot. Let's go to work, boys.
So what happened to Mr. Right? I hear he ditched you and the kid and moved to Europe.
He didn't "ditch" me. We had some problems, he got a good offer from an orchestra in England and he took it.
He ditched you. You should've married me, you know.
You never asked me, and every time I brought it up you'd get drowsy and fall asleep.
Men are very sensitive, you know. We need to feel loved and desired, too.
Well, when you started introducing me as "the old ball and chain," that's when I left.
I may have a few personal problems but one thing I am is a total professional.
What do you think?
There's no doubt about it. He's got his father's looks. The kid is ugly  extremely ugly. And smelly. You stink! It's just horrible. You are the stinkiest baby I ever smelled. What's his name?
His name is Oscar.
Oscar! You poor kid!
Peter, this is serious. I need to know if you think there's anything unusual about him.
Unusual? I don't know. I haven't had a lot of experience with babies.
I'll do it.
I'll supervise.
Brings back a lot of sweet memories, doesn't it? There's our old cash machine. And the dry cleaners we used to go to. And the old video store. We really had some good times, didn't we?
We definitely had a moment or two.
That's where the buggy stopped.
Okay, let's take a look.
I wish I could stay. I feel personally responsible for you being here.
You are personally responsible. If I can get conjugal rights, will you visit me at Sing Sing?
Please don't say that. You won't go to prison.
Don't worry about me. I'm like a cat.
You mean you cough up hairballs all over the rug?
I'm El Gato. I always land on my feet.
Good luck.
Thanks.
So this is what you do, huh?
Oh, hello, Peter.
You're really good, you know.
I didn't paint it. I'm just cleaning it. It's an original Ver Meer. It's worth about ten million dollars.
I'm sure you didn't come here just to talk about art.
As a matter of fact, I stopped by to tell you that I haven't forgotten your problem and that we're still on the case.
He was also a lunatic and a genocidal madman. I hate this painting. I've felt very uncomfortable since they brought it up from storage.
Yeah, it's not the kind of thing you'd want to hang in the rec room. You know what it needs? A fluffy little white kitten in the corner.
I may be wrong, but I think you've got a little crush on this guy.
Goodbye, Peter.
I'd like to stay, but I really don't have time to hang around here. I'll call you. Later, Johnny!
I'm sorry. Were you on your way out?
No, I just got in  a couple hours ago. Come on in. Are we having a pajama party?
Peter, the bathtub tried to eat Oscar.
You know, if anyone else told me that, I'd have serious doubts. But coming from you, I can't honestly say I'm surprised.
I must be losing my mind. At the museum today I could have sworn that terrible painting of Vigo looked right at me.
Who could blame him? Were you wearing this nightgown?
I don't know what to do anymore.
I'll get Ray and Egon to check out the bathtub. You better stay here.
This is Joe Namath's old number, you know. You could get a lot of chicks with this. Just don't pee in it.
Peter, what about the bathtub?
We'll take care of that. Ray, Pete. Listen, get over to Dana's right away ... Her bathtub pulled a fast one  tried to eat the kid.
It was full of this awful pink ooze.
Sounds like another slime job ... No, they're all right. They're here now ... Right ... Let me know.
Bathroom's right here  let me just tidy up a few things.
Peter, this is very nice, but you don't have to do any of this, you know.
Be careful on that sofa  it's a buttbiter. But the bed's good and I just changed the sheets so if you get tired, feel free. In fact, I think you should definitely plan on spending the night here.
Really? And how would we handle the sleeping arrangements?
For me it's best if I sleep on my side and you spoon up right behind me with your arms around me. If we go the other way I'm afraid your hair will be getting in my face all night.
How about you on the sofa and me in bed with the baby.
Or we could do that.
Thank you. Poor baby. I think I should put him down now.
I'll put him down for you. You are way too short! And your bellybutton sticks out! You're nothing but a burden to your poor mother!
Are you all squeaky clean now?
Yes, I'm very clean. Did they find anything at my apartment?
They didn't find anything? In the bathtub ... the pink ooze ... nothing? So, what do I do now?
Now you get dressed and we go out. I got a babysitter and everything. Trust me, you need it.
I'm not here to date. I can't leave Oscar in a strange place with someone I don't know.
It's Janine Melnitz, from my staff. She's one of my most valuable employees.
Does she know anything about babies?
Janine Melnitz, are you kidding? Do I have a vase? I brought some of your clothes. Wear something intriguing. I brought along some interesting possibilities.
Okay, but it's not a date. It's a dinner.
Did you happen to see some shirts on the floor in here?
I put them in your hamper. I thought they were dirty.
I have a hamper? Next time ask me first, okay. I have more than two grades of laundry. There're lots of subtle levels between clean and dirty.
So  are you making any New Year's resolutions?
I want to stop getting involved with men who aren't good for me.
Does that start exactly at midnight tomorrow, or could you hold off for a few days maybe?
For one night in your life, do you think it's possible for us to be completely real?
All right, you want to be real? So tell me why did you dump me?
Oh, Peter, I didn't dump you. I just had to protect myself. You really weren't very good for me, you know.
I'm not even good for me.
Why do you say things like that? You're so much better than you know.
Thank you. If I had that kind of support on a daily basis, I could definitely shape up by the turn of the century.
So why don't you give me a jingle in the year 2000?
Let me jingle you right now.
Maybe I should call Janine.
Don't worry. Janine has a very special way with children.
I think he likes you. I think I do too.
Finally came to your senses, huh?
That's not true. It was 1620.
Same difference.
That's a terrible thing to say.
So what? It's a free country. Thanks, Lib.
Frank, do you think you could give me a hand with these bags?
I'm not a doorman, Miss Barrett. I'm a building superintendent.
You're also a human being, Frank.
Okay, okay. It's not my job, but what the hell. I'll do you a favor. He takes the grocery bags from her.
Thank you, Frank. I'll get the hang of this eventually.
Hiya, Oscar. What do you say, slugger?
That's a goodlooking kid you got there, Ms. Barrett.
Thank you, Frank. Oh, are you ever going to fix the radiator in my bedroom? I asked you last week.
Didn't I do it?
No, you didn't, Frank.
Okay, that's no problem.
That's exactly what you said last week.
Hundreds of people. Believe me, I didn't imagine this.
I'm not saying you did. In science we always look for the simplest explanation.
What are you working on, Egon?
I'm trying to determine whether human emotional states have a measurable effect on the psychomagnetheric energy field. It's a theory Ray and I were working on when we had to dissolve Ghostbusters.
We'll do the happiness index next. I'd like to bring Ray in on your case, if it's all right with you.
Okay, whatever you think  but not Venkman.
Oh no.
Do you ever see him?
Occasionally
How is he these days?
Venkman? I think he was borderline for a while there. Then he crossed the border.
Does he ever mention me?
No. Not that I can recall.
This is my address and telephone number. Will you call me?
Certainly.
Egon, I'd rather you didn't mention any of this to Peter if you don't mind.
I won't.
Thank you.
Oh, yes, I got in a little late this morning, Janosz.
You know, you are really doing very good work here. I think soon you may be ready to assist me in some of the more important restorations.
Thank you, Janosz. I've learned a lot here, but now that my baby's a little older, I was hoping to rejoin the orchestra.
We'll be very sorry to lose you. Perhaps I could take you to lunch today?
Actually, I'm not eating lunch today. I have an appointment. In fact, I'd better go.
Every day I ask you, and every day you've got something else to do. Do I have bad breath or something?
I'm sorry. Perhaps some other time.
Okay, I'll take a raincheck on that.
Janosz?
Hello, Dana. I happened to be in the neighborhood and I thought I'd stop by to see if everything's all right with you  you know, with the blackout and everything? Are you okay? Is the baby all right?
Do you need anything? You want me to come in?
No, everything's fine. Honestly. Thanks anyway.
Okay, just thought I'd check. Good night, Dana. Sleep well. Don't let the bedbugs bite you.
Good night, Janosz.
Dana, aren't you going to introduce me to your friend?
Oh, I'm sorry. This is Peter Venkman. Peter, Janosz Poha.
What do you want with my baby?
No harm will come to the child. You might even say it's a privilege. He will be the vessel for the spirit of Vigo. And you  well, you will be the mother of the ruler of the world. Doesn't that sound nice?
If this is what the world will be like, I don't want to live in it.
I don't believe we have the luxury of choice.
Everybody has a choice.
Not in this case, my dear. Take a look. That's not Gainsborough's Blue Boy up there. He's Vigo!
I don't care who he is. He's not taking my baby.
Time is running out, Dana. Soon it will be midnight and the city will be mine  and Vigo's. Well, mainly Vigo's. But we have a spectacular opportunity to make the best of our relationship.
We don't have a relationship.
I know. Marry me, Dana, and together we will raise Vigo as our son. There are many perks that come with being the mother of a living god. I'm sure he will supply for us a magnificent apartment. And perhaps a car and free parking.
I hate and despise you and everything you stand for with all my heart and soul. I could never forgive what you've done to me and my child.
Many marriages begin with a certain amount of distance, but after a while I believe we could learn to love each other. Think about it.
I'd rather not.
Why do you laugh? you don't believe she taught me?
I don't believe you had a mother.
How many cattle?
Four should do it.
They will want a lot of money.
Why so many?
Because I have two plans to kill the lions one involving the cattle, the other the men.
Did you ever see a lion that size?
Not even close. What happened?
Gentlemen, there's no sickness smell at all here, and little blood. When we leave, close the gate securely, don't open it til morning and keep your fires high. Any questions, ask them now. You two will sleep beautifully in your tents. And stay there.
And where will you sleep beautifully?
Patterson and I will be in the old hospital where the enticing smell of sickness still lingers and by the time we're done, I promise you, the odor of blood will be irresistible.
Where do you go next?
Some Russian princes want to hunt the Himalayas. You?
Help finish the railroad.
My life was shaped because someone invented gunpowder. Our lives have crossed because two lions went mad. But what if in the future the three of us do something grand for humanity? Was that worth all the lives? Too soon to tell.
Some mysteries should not have solutions.
Hold your son high.
Why do the workers look unhappy?
Because they are here. Because Tsavo is the worst place in the world. Come, John to the bridge.
It's all wonderfully under control, Samuel you've done a splendid job.
Thank you. The truth is this: you have to work at it constantly.
The workers don't get on?
Get on? They detest each other. Obviously the Africans hate the Indians. But the Indians also hate the other Indians. Some of them worship cows, while others eat them.
Did it look like this in your mind?
This is more difficult
I am also liaison between these two.
Clearly you don't agree about building the railroad?
What are they looking at?
You they cannot believe you're still here.
Nonsense.
You don't know what Tsavo means, do you? It means "slaughter"...
We should construct thorn fences around every tent area. Fires burning at night.
Fine. Get started. And a strict curfew no one allowed out at night. Send half your men to the bridge, the rest with these two. And I'm sorry for my tone earlier. But I repeat there is no reason for fear. I will kill the lion and I will build the bridge.
Oh yes, I think so.
Look out, Samuel, here it comes.
For you.
Thank you, Samuel.
Good news?
I expect so it's from my wife.
Do you love her?
I do, actually; very much.
You give me hope, John.
Soon.
I have to ask why do you need me?
You like him, don't you?
Oh yes. But it takes time.
You've known him long?
Since his beard was red.
Thank you. Why does he need you by him?
He doesn't. He needs nobody. But we have hunted many times... ...he knows I am afraid of lions...
Three years I've worked for the railroad. Now I don't know why. It seemed a good idea once.
I feel the same about the bridge. This country certainly didn't ask for it, doesn't need it.
He has children?
Once...
Where is it?
Underneath. Somewhere.
Afraid of lions.
It's all right, Samuel we all get hit
I didn't have a chance to thank you.
What did I do?
Got me out of trouble.
Nonsense Samuel would have done something.
We need to talk.
Let me save time you are the engineer; you are in charge; you're sorry I'm here. Right so far? Good because I am not an engineer, I don't want to be in charge, and I'm sorrier than you are that I'm here I hate Tsavo. So I will help you by killing the lions and leaving, and you will help me by doing what I tell you so I can leave. See any problems?
Actually, no.
All right let's go into battle. I'm Redbeard.
Somehow I guessed.
I don't really. But understand something even though it may take me two or three days to sort this out when I'm gone, you'll still have to build the bridge. And I don't want the men to have lost respect for you.
That's very considerate.
I'm always considerate my mother taught me that.
Have you got it?
No, but you do see, you were needed after all. And fifty warriors at the camp before dawn.
The best way to ensure the kill when you're using trackers is for one to shoot while the other uses the trackers to force the lion toward the shooter. Have you ever led trackers?
I can try.
Samuel says you killed a lion.
It was probably luck I'd rather you did the shooting.
You'd never force the lion to me and nobody ever got a lion with one shot by luck. Around there's a clearing you'll know it from the anthills get there and hide and listen to the sounds I'll make the lion come directly to you.
...misfire... it jammed...
Has it ever done that before?
...don't know...
Think about something else.
Have you ever failed?
Only in life...
Goddammit!
It's all right. Stay ready. They know it's there.
Meant to ask you the railroad car trap. Your idea? Excellent notion I used the same device myself once.
But of course yours worked.
In point of fact it didn't but I'm convinced the idea is sound.
It would have been a beautiful bridge, John. I never noticed before, occupied with other business, I suppose... ...never really pay much attention to that kind of thing but I've had the time today, nothing else on, and this... it's graceful and the placement couldn't be prettier... and...
You just got hit. The getting up is up to you but they're only lions and I'm going after them crack of dawn...
In my town, when I was little, there was a brute, a bully who terrorized the place. But he was not the problem. He had a brother who was worse than he. But the brother was not the problem. One or the other of them was usually in jail. The problem came when they were both free togther. The two became different from either alone. Alone they were only brutes. Together they became lethal, together they killed.
What happened to them?
I got big.
Their den? Have you ever seen anything like this?
Nobody's seen anything like this. Lions don't have caves like this they're doing it for pleasure.
Where could it have gone? How could it get across the water? They're only lions, yes?
Don't they have to be?...
They're used to people in trees, not in a clearing. It may be tight.
Not for me I'm too bulky and it's your idea, you go up there. Take the others to the water tower for the night.
I'll be bait alone?
Yes. And I'll be in some distant tree where I can provide no assistance whatsoever. Can you control your fear?
I'll have to.
I can't control mine I'd be lost without the shame factor driving me.
Was that supposed to make me feel better?
It's certainly the best chance they've had to kill you.
You think they'll come then? Why?
Good luck.
Why?
Because I think they're after you.
How many do you think they've killed?
The most of any lions... a hundred...? Probably more. Johnny...?
I never thought I'd say this, but I'm glad you came.
Understood you realize now you could never have done it without me.
Actually, I could have done it much more easily without you, but for whatever reason, I'm glad you came.
Many thanks. You're Patterson, yes? Nigel Starling I'll be assisting you at Tsavo but surely Beaumont must have told you that.
He just gave me his "monster" speech.
That. I know Robert seems dreadful, but when you truly get to know the man, well, he's much worse. And I'm one of his defenders. Forget him for now it's your first ride to Tsavo I think you'll find it breathtaking.
Don't much like them.
The females are bigger only animal here like that have to be or they wouldn't survive because the males eat the young.
Anything special about them?
Just that they fart through their mouths. Must make kissing something of a gamble.
I've lived in Africa a year and I don't know what you know. How long have you been here?
Almost three hours. But I've been getting ready all my life.
Every time I see something like that, I know we're right to be here to bring Christianity into their lives, enrich their souls.
Beaumont says it's to end slavery.
We all have our reasons. Mine is simply to make them understand happiness, accept salvation, know the serenity that comes best I stop. One of the byproducts of my belief is that I can become amazingly boring. But I know God smiles on me.
Have you got that in writing?
Samuel is camp liaison absolutely indispensable the only man here everyone trusts.
Does he speak English?
Excellent. Could I see the bridge site?
I've got medical supplies to deliver. Come along to the hospital when you're done.
Finish your tour?
And anxious to get started. What is this, mostly malaria?
Yes but their suffering is only transitory once they except God into their hearts, He will vanquish all pain.
I couldn't believe it when you said "sort it out." As if it were the most normal thing in the world. "Hohum, what lovely tea, I think I'll bag a killer beast this evening, nothing much else going on anyway."
Well, he put me in a spot, didn't he? But that's all right after all, I'm responsible for everything that happens here. And it certainly won't do much for morale if a maneater's on the prowl.
You said "of course" you'd need the donkey. Why "of course"?
We know three things about maneaters. First, they always return to where they've attacked before. Second, they're always old they can't catch other animals so they turn to us. And third, they're always alone they've been cast out by their pride because they can't keep up.
I don't suppose I could watch.
Might be exciting for you.
I've never been all that adventurous. I wouldn't be in the way?
I'd love the company. And I've hunted all my life.
Well, why not? You seem so calm and experienced. Why not, indeed!
I hate to be a bother, John, but the cramp's getting worse. The pain is actually quite unbearable now.
Shhh.
I'm sure you mean that to be comforting, but
you'll have to deal with it, Nigel.
That is precisely my plan but back in my tent.
John? I know this isn't the time to ask, but
What?
Since you'd only been here three hours when we met, are you sure this is how you hunt lions?
Not to terrify you, Nigel, but it's worse than you think I've never even seen one.
...one shot...
So that's what a lion looks like.
With much more on the way John we could have had this chat on flatter ground
true enough but without the comedy relief.
How lucky we are.
Aren't we full of ourselves today? I think it's because of the lion.
Possibly.
All right thee second embankment will go there.
You do plan to mark it a bit more precisely than just "there."
In your honor, Nigel. And you and Singh will be in charge of building them and you'll also build the roadbeds and the three foundation pillars and you'll be finished in eight thrilling weeks.
John, it will not be easy.
Nigel, you'll just have to use your hands
I'll try but this feels so different that old lion I killed could never carry off a man Singh's size.
But you said they were always old.
That's what the books say...
Second death? Where?
far end of camp man wandering alone at night. Hawthorne's examining the body now. There's even less of him than of Singh.
But it's crazy the lion shouldn't be that hungry this soon. Samuel?
What a good week.
You mean nobody died?
We all worked together. Worthy deeds were accomplished. I liked the labor. My mother insisted on piano lessons broke the dear woman's heart when I turned out to be tone deaf but she still was always at me about being careful with my hands. I like the blood, is that strange?
Very good indeed.
We have hunted since childhood.
All right you'll spend your nights inside. You'll have plenty of ammunition. You're totally protected, you have really nothing to fear.
That is correct. Nothing.
Not once? you didn't hit it once?
I would never make excuses but a fire broke out the light was bad he kept moving
well, of course he kept moving but he couldn't have been more than ten feet away from the three of you surely you must have wounded the thing
I assure you we came close many times
I tried to be late, John it would have been easier if you'd gone.
We're not much good at goodbyes, Helena.
Tell me about Beaumont does he understand how brilliant you are, how lucky he is to have you?
It was embarrassing the man showered me with compliments.
Oh dear you're geting that downtrodden look again
well, it's just... ...other men don't abandon their wives at such a time
oh please if I'd been against your taking this, you would have abandoned me. You've been desperate to see Africa your whole life.
What if there are complications?
not "what if" there will be, there always are. Which only means that our "son" and I note my confidence will have an excuse to come visit.
Go, now. Such a gentleman.
I am desperate to see Africa but I hate the leaving.
That's a terrible idea
is it, I'm sorry, but then, of course, you're the doctor, you should know.
Silliest thing I ever heard of why in the world should we go through all that?
I suppose I could answer you. I suppose I could explain that the place is so inviting, what with the smell of blood and flesh, that they have to strike. It's even possible that I tell you I found some fresh paw marks around back which means they're already contemplating feasting here. But I don't want to answer you because when you question me you are really saying that I don't have the least idea what I am doing, that I am nothing but an incompetent, that I am a fool. Anyone who finds me a fool, please say so now.
I have been desperate for Patterson to let me move the hospital since the day he arrived.
Then we agree.
I'm David Hawthorne, this is my hospital. And my advice to you is, "don't get sick in front of it." That was meant to be charming, sorry. I seem to have lost the knack.
You never had it.
Nigel and I don't like each other much.
A maneater attacks and you're such a buffoon you almost forget to mention it?
Well, he got away, didn't he? Riding a donkey not far from here when the lion sprang on them donkey took the brunt of it then suddenly the lion ran off.
then he feasted on him, starting with his feet
please you needn't be so graphic
You intend "sorting this out" tonight?
This sham? Ridiculous. Who needs it? It's only being built to control the ivory trade, make men richer.
Then why do you stay?
Who else would hire me? Beat you to it, didn't I? Oh yes, almost forgot brought you a little welcoming gift.
I know it's your first day and of course you must be tired from the journey but what are you going to do about it?
Karim will have to show me where it happened. And of course, I'll need the donkey. With any luck, I'll sort it out tonight.
You're certain about tomorrow? But you don't seem excited.
You don't enjoy killing, do you?
Then why do it?
John Henry Patterson, come in. I'm Robert Beaumont. Firm I like that, tells me a lot about you now why don't you tell me about me? To get you started, many people find me handsome, with a wonderful smile. I'm sure you agree. Winning personality, heaps of charm?
My wife is the game player in the family, sir.
Games? Look at me closely, Patterson: I am a monster. My only pleasure is tormenting people who work for me, such as yourself. One mistake and I promise you this: I'll make you hate me.
build the bridge over the Tsavo river. And be finished in four months time. Can you do that?
I'm sure you've examined my record. So you know I've never yet been late on a bridge.
You've never built in Africa.
But I have in India every country presents problems.
You'll need your confidence, I promise you.
I've got a reason far beyond confidence: my wife is having our firstborn in five months and I promised I'd be with her when the baby comes.
Very moving, Patterson; I'm touched you confided in me. But I don't really give a shit about your upcoming litter. I've made you with this assignment don't make me break you.
You won't have the chance. Any further words of encouragement? Then I've a train to catch.
Pleasant journey?
How could it be? I hate Africa.
Lovely sound they seem happy.
Don't they, though?
So work must be going well?
Truthfully? There has been the occasional odd hiccup but then, as you so wisely told me, I'd never built in Africa.
But overall, you're pleased?
I do need to see Starling.
Starling?
Awhile back he ordered some bibles I've brought them. Is he here?
Yes he is.
Well, I need to speak to him.
It's what the natives are calling the lions two lions have been causing trouble
what's the surprise in that, this is Africa?
It hasn't been that simple so far.
What have they done besides kill Starling? How many have they killed?
This is supposed to be salvation? What kind of idiocy are we dealing with here?
I'm calling it my "contraption" we're going to surround it with a boma a fence, to you and we're going to leave a small opening opposite that door.
In that half will be bait human bait I'll start things off a sliding door will fit above that and a trip wire will run across the floor.
Genius the beast will enter, tripping the wire, the door will slide down, trapping him, you, safe behind the bars, will have him at your mercy and will shoot him.
Are you running a high fever, man? How could you expect something as lunatic as this to succeed? How could you even conceive of it?
I didn't conceive of it for the lions I built one in India when there was trouble with a tiger.
And it worked?
In point of fact, it didn't. But I'm convinced the theory is sound.
What?
I made a mistake hiring you you're simply not up to the job.
You genuinely enjoy trying to terrify people, don't you? Well, fine except there isn't a higher rated engineer and we both know that. And since time is so important to you, how long do you think it would take to find someone else qualified and bring him here?
Let me explain about time you've been here three months and already two months behind. And the Germans and the French are gearing up. And I don't care about you and I don't care about the thirty dead I care about my knighthood and if this railroad finishes on schedule, I'll get my knighthood and I want it. Professional hunters may be the answer.
All they'll bring is more chaos and we've plenty of that already and if they come in, word will get out and what happens to your knighthood then?
I'm going to try and locate Redbeard I assume you've heard of him.
Every man who's ever fired a rifle has heard of him by the time you find him, the lions will be dead.
Very well, the job's still yours, I'll go. But if I have to return, you're finished. And I will then do everything I can to destroy your reputation. Am I not fair? Told you you'd hate me.
Understand, I had help
not a time for modesty, Bob
No hints, Samuel.
You don't know all that has happened here the Devil has come to Tsavo.
You're right. The Devil has come. Look at me. I am the Devil.
I am a man of peace.
Am I to take it you want to live?
Most certainly. Absolutely. Yes.
Excellent decision. Your name is Abdullah? I'm sure we'll meet again. Go and enjoy the splendid morning.
I think it's been a pleasure.
Starting now, we attack them.
How; we don't know where they are?
We'll have to make them come to us, won't we? And since there are two of them, we're going to set two plans in motion. First: we must move the entire hospital by tomorrow night.
You were contracted to work
malaria epidemic; very sudden.
Let me see the sick.
Oh, you're a doctor now, too?
There is no reason for fear.
On that I choose to remain dubious. Two are dead now in two nights.
oh, sing a different song, Abdullah there's nothing wrong with your men so stop telling me there is
you do not call me a liar you know nothing of their health consider yourself fortunate I persuaded so many to stay consider yourself fortunate I have decided to stay
You think you matter? Beaumont is on that train he matters
He sees this chaos, he'll replace you all.
He'll replace you, too that's all you really care about.
You think so? Fine. It's best you get out. Go. Tell all your people to go, run home where they'll be safe under the covers and when the bridge is built and the railroad is done, they can tell their women that out of all the thousands who worked here, they were the only ones to flee
Morning, friend, glorious day.
As are they all.
The next time will be as this time The Devil has come to Tsavo
that's ridiculous talk and you can't seriously believe it
now you're telling me my beliefs? I don't think so
I wasn't and you know it and don't push it just listen we have a problem in Tsavo
at last you're right we do you are the problem in Tsavo
careful, Abdullah
I have to admit, things have really started looking up for me since my life turned to shit.
So tell me more about this job. What exactly will you be doing?
Well, mostly archival research, cataloguing old records and writing liner notes for their CD reissues. It's really... I can't believe it.
Remember what I said when we first started  this little breakdown might turn out to be the best thing that ever happened to you!
It doesn't pay very much, but I should be able to afford my own place in a few months... Do you think that's too soon? I'm really anxious to get my record collection out of storage...
Why don't we start with that next week?
Thank you, doctor.
Don't thank me. You're doing all the work.
Seymour?
Yes?
Do you have a check for me?
Uh... hi. Uh... Enid's stepmother told me I'd find her here?
She's not at home?
No... they said she was here...
What the fuck is she doing?! She was supposed to be here three hours ago!
Uh, do you mind if I wait? I really need to talk to her.
Are you sure she wasn't there? Maybe she was just hiding from you.
Why would she be hiding from me?
I don't know... where is she, then?
Maybe she's with Josh?
Josh!? Why would she be with Josh?
I don't know.
Why? What did she tell you?
She just mentioned him a few times and said that they had been dating  I thought maybe she was...
What? Is she having some secret affair with Josh?
I have no idea  I just want to...
Why wouldn't she tell me? There's no way! She could never keep that to herself... you're crazy.
Really, I don't know enough about it to...
That slut!
Why did you say she might be hiding from me? Did she say anything to you about me?
Yeah, she thinks you're a dork.
Did she say that?
Look, what do you expect? Considering how we met you.
What do you mean?
On that pathetic fake blind date.
What are you talking about?
Didn't she ever tell you about that? God, she really is pathological...
What fake blind date? What are you talking about?
I think that Phillip and Enid can help us to see that there aremany different ways we can express ourselves. We can do things like these cartoons that are amusing as a sort of light entertainment or we can do work that is more serious in scope and feeling and that deals with issues; emotional, spiritual, political; of great importance. I hope that you will each have the tools to do that type of work by the end of this class. Who is responsible for this?
I am.
Talk to us about it...
It's my response to the issue of a woman's right to choose... it's something I feel superstrongly about.
Isn't this a wonderful piece, class? This definitely falls into that higher category of art I was speaking of earlier.
What do we have here, Margaret?
It's a tampon in a teacup...
I can see that... now what can you tell us about it? First of all, what kind of sculpture is this?
It's a "found object"... that's when an artist takes an ordinary object and places it in an artistic context and thus it becomes art.
Very good. Now, what can you tell us about it in regard to your artistic intent?
I guess I see the teacup as a symbol for womanhood, because of tea parties in the olden days, but instead of tea I was trying to kind of confront people with this... like...
This shocking image of repressed femininity!
Right, exactly!
I think it's really a wonderful piece, Margaret!
Please Josh?
Forget it, there's no way... find some other poor sucker to abuse.
So Josh, if this guy freaks out, will you protect us?
He has every reason to freak out  this is a totally fuckedup thing to do to somebody!
I agree.
I wish I could see him.
Did you remember to pay the phone bill?
Yeah.
Call me sometime.
Well, here's where the fun never stops!
Yeah, I'm really, really happy. Really having a good time.
Still torturing yourself over that Enid, huh?
Where else am I ever going to find another girl who likes Geeshie Wiley records? She could at least have the decency to call me back.
Maybe she was just using you to try and get back at some guy. Who knows? It could be a million things. It's wasted time trying to logically figure out the female brain, that's for sure.
Maybe she's got another boyfriend.
Yeah, well... thanks for cheering me up.
No problem.
So what's the story with the two cheerleaders over here?
They're Seymour's.
Seymour? You gotta be kidding me!
Don't worry about it. He's not gettin' any and neither are you.
Let me tell ya somethin', Joe... Listen to me, Joe... you can't hit a home run without swinging the bat!
Right.
Do you have any old Indian records?
Indian records?
You know, like weird 1960's Indian rock n' roll music.
I don't have anything after about 1935. I may have one Hindu 78 from the twenties in my collection, but it's not really for sale. I don't really collect "foreign."
Those are all 78s... Can you play 78s?
Sure!... Wait, maybe not 78s, but I can play regular records...
There's some good stuff in here... do you like old music?
Sure, I guess.
Well there's a few choice LPs in here that reissue some really great old blues stuff.
Is this one any good?
Nah, it's not so great. Here's the one I'd recommend.
This track alone by Memphis Minnie is worth about $500 if you have the original 78. She was one of the greatest guitar players that ever lived, and a great singer and songwriter as well. I know the guy who owns the original and lent it for use on this reissue.
Wow!
How much is it?
A dollar seventyfive.
Okay.
Yeah, it took a while before I got a chance to play it, but when I heard that song it was like 
So you really liked it? Yeah, there's some really rare performances. You liked that Memphis Minnie, huh?
Yeah, that's good too... the whole record was good, but that one song, "Devil Got My Woman"  I mostly just keep playing that one over and over... Do you have any other records like that?
The Skip James record? Yeah, that's a masterpiece. There are no other records like that! I actually have the original 78 of it in my collection. It's one of maybe five known copies.
Wow!
Do you want to see it? I can run upstairs and get it...
Yeah, sure, I guess...
Watch my stuff.
Oops! I dropped it!
NO!!!
Hey, I was only kidding!
What was all that stuff about enlarged holes and tight cracks?
I... I didn't think you would have any interest in this get together... I mean if you had told me you were coming I would have warned you  it's not like a real party or anything.
You're right about that. So this is your record collection?
Oh God no. This is just junk I have for sale or trade. The record room is offlimits.
Really? Can I see it?
Yeah, well sure... you can if you want to... it's just I don't want all these guys in there at once... you know...
Wow! This is like my dream room! Are these all records!
I have about fifteen hundred 78s at this point. I've tried to pare down my collection to the essential...
God, look at this poster! I can't believe this room! You're the luckiest guy in the world! I'd kill to have stuff like this!
Please... go ahead and kill me! This stuff doesn't make you happy, believe me.
Oh, come on! What are you talking about?
You think it's healthy to obsessively collect things? You can't connect with other people so you fill your life with stuff... I'm just like all the rest of these pathetic collector losers.
No you're not! You're a cool guy, Seymour.
Yeah right... If I'm so cool, why haven't I had a girlfriend in four years? I can't even remember the last time a girl talked to me.
I'm talking to you... I'll bet there are tons of women who would go out with you in a minute!
Oh, right...
No really... I guarantee I could get you a date in like two seconds...
Good luck...
I'm totally serious!
Yeah, well...
I mean it  You leave everything to me  I'm going to be your own personal dating service!
I appreciate the offer but you really don't 
Mark my words, by the end of this summer you'll be up to your neck in pussy!
Jesus! That's very nice of you Enid but I  I really 
What about her? Would you go out with her?
I don't know, what kind of question is that? I mean it's totally irrelevant because a girl like that would never be caught dead with me...
But putting that aside for now, would you go out with her?
I really didn't get a good look at her.
Okay, what about this one? Are you into girls with big tits?
Jesus!
C'mon Seymour, I'm trying to collect data here! Don't you want me to find you your perfect dream girl?
I'm just not one of those guys who has a "type"...
Every guy has a type!
I mean as long as she's not a complete imbecile and she's even remotely attractive...
We need to narrow this down somehow... we need to find a place where you can meet women who share your interests.
Maybe I don't want to meet someone who shares my interests. I hate my interests! Where can I go to meet the exact opposite of myself?
Yeah yeah yeah... Just tell me your five main interests, in order of importance.
Well, let's see... I guess I'd have to put Traditional Jazz, Blues, and Ragtime music at the top of the list, then probably...
Let's just say "music"  that way you only use up one... Wait, we have to go in here for a second...
So is that your boyfriend?
Josh? He's nobody's boyfriend... He's just this guy that Becky and I like to torture.
Well are 
Oh my god! We have to go in here!
Yeah, sure... very funny....
Please, Seymour... Becky and I have been dying to go in here but we can't get any boys to take us... Please?
I  I'd really rather not...
We'll just go in for one minute  it'll be a riot!
I don't think so...
PLEASE? We have to!
I really don't think it's a good idea.
Fine, I'll go by myself then...
Wow! Look at all these creeps!
Shh!
OH MY GOD!
Look at this  "Lollipop Lolitas"  isn't child pornography totally illegal?
These are older women just dressed up to look young... I think.
Uh, I don't have much money with me right now.
C'mon, Seymour, please?
Relax, Seymour, relax...
That thing is just so shrill and piercing and loud  it's like someone jabbing me in the face! KFTO comin' atchya on this beautiful evening...
So, why did you bring this along?
I brought it for him to autograph. He's going to be amazed to see it  it's one of two known copies... I can't believe they have him for the opening act and not the headliner. What an insult!
This bar's going to be packed with girls for you to pick from.
I'm not holding my breath in that department.
What are we, in slow motion here?! What are ya, hypnotized? Have some more kids, why don't you?... For Christ's sake, would you move!?
Jesus, Seymour.
Yes, that would certainly do...
Well, offer her a seat! You want me to do it?
Wait a minute! Hang on! Jesus, I gotta think of something to talk to her about. No! No...
Just wait here.
What did you tell that girl?
I told her you were a big record executive and you were thinking of signing that band to your label.
Jesus...
Now I remember why I haven't gone anywhere in months. I'm not even in the same universe as those creatures back there. I might as well be from another planet.
We just need to figure out a place where you can meet somebody who isn't a total idiot, that's all.
Look, I really appreciate your help, Enid, but let's face it, this is hopeless.
It's not hopeless...
Yeah, well it's simple for everybody else  give 'em a Big Mac and a pair of Nikes and they're happy! I just can't relate to 99.9% of humanity.
Yeah, well, I can't relate to humanity either, but I don't think it's totally hopeless...
But it's not totally hopeless for you... I've had it. I don't even have the energy to try anymore. You should make sure you do the exact opposite of everything I do so you don't end up like me...
I'd rather end up like you than those people at that stupid bar... At least you're an interesting person... at least you're not exactly like everybody else...
Hooray for me.
I'm not sure I have anything to drink... there might be some 
It doesn't matter, I'm not staying long... I just want to make sure I convince you not to give up yet.
"Yet."
Wow, this is so cool...
If you don't mind my asking  why do you care so much if I get a date or not?
I dunno... because I can't stand the idea of a world where a guy like you can't get a date...
What the fuck, Seymour?! What is this?
What?... Oh that... I borrowed that from work about fifteen years ago... I guess it's mine now.
What, are you a klansman or something?
Yeah, right, I'm a klansman  thanks a lot!... Do you know the Cook's Chicken franchise?
"Fourpiece Cook's special deep fried with side n' slaw it's OUT RAYGEOUS"!
Yeah, well "Cook's" is just a made up name. When they originally opened back in 1922 they were named "The Coon Chicken Inn"  that's an early painting of their first logo.
Actually, I was a whole lot more interested in the Cook's phenomenon when I was about your age. I've kind of lost interest since I've been working for them...
You work at Cook's Chicken?
For nineteen years...
What are you, a fry cook or something?
Nothing so glamorous... actually, I'm an assistant manager at their corporate headquarters.
Jesus, I'd go nuts if I had to work in an office all day.
Hey, I get good benefits, a good early retirement plan, nobody ever bothers me...
Yeah, but still...
I make enough money to eat and buy old records... what more do I want?
So, I don't really get it  are you saying that things were better back then even though there was stuff like this?
No, in a lot of ways things are better now... I dunno... it's complicated. Everybody still hates each other, but they know how to hide it better, or something...
Hey, can I borrow this?
What? Why?
I promise I'll take good care of it.
I dunno... they're very sensitive at work about all this stuff. Maybe it would be better if you 
Don't you trust me, Seymour?
You can open your eyes now.
Oh... uh, thanks a lot Enid... I really appreciate it...
No, Doofus... blow it out!
Arrrghhh! Ah Jeez... Christ...
Are you okay?
It's just my stupid back. I'll be all right in a minute...
What is that?
Oh... uh... It's just this elastic thing I have to wear for lumbar support...
What, like a girdle?
Maybe now you understand why I can't get a date.
Yeah, well, you're not the only one. Everybody I know has totally fucked up problems... It seems like only stupid people have good relationships...
That's the spirit!
I mean, I'm eighteen years old and I've never even had a real, steady boyfriend for more than like two weeks!
Really?
Never...
I'm starting to think that even if I did get a girlfriend it really wouldn't change anything.
I know. It's not like it makes all your problems go away.
Then again, that's easy for me to say, since I'll never even get a date. I'm sure you have hundreds of guys who are interested in you.
Actually, I've got a total crush on this one guy right now, but it's a really fuckedup situation...
Oh yeah?
Oh wait, you met him... remember that guy Josh? I'm like practically obsessed with him, but I can't do anything about it because Becky would freak out.
Why?
Never mind, it's way too complicated... Did you have problems like this when you were my age  where you're totally confused all the time?
I won't even dignify that with a response.
I wonder if you really like all these old records or if you only like the fact that nobody else likes them?
Who knows?
Aren't you going to get that?
Let the machine get it. I have no desire to talk to anyone who would be calling me...
Wow! What was that all about?
It's just somebody's idea of a joke...
That didn't sound like a joke to me... what, did you write a personal ad or something?
Uh yeah. A long time ago... she called before once... it's just somebody trying to humiliate me.
Seymour! I promise you that wasn't a joke  you have to call her back!
How can you be so sure?
Well, uh... I'm an expertabout stuff like this  she was totally for real!
Uh... hello?
Hi, it's me...
Oh, hi...
So, what happened?
Actually, it's kind of still happening... she's over here right now... I think everything's going pretty well...
What? You're kidding me...
Yeah, so I better go  it's not really the best time to talk...
What, are you going to like have sex with her on your first date?
Jesus, Enid... I'll talk to you later... bye!
Boo!
YAAA!
Where have you been? I've been looking all over for you... I've been wandering the streets day and night trying to find you...
Really?
No, actually Joe told me you were here... so how come you never call me anymore?
I know, I'm sorry... II've been really busy...
Yeah, I'll bet! So, how's it going with what'shername? Dana?
Oh... pretty well, surprisingly... you know...
So, what kind of stuff do you guys do together? Is she into old records and stuff?
Sort of... she doesn't dislike any of that stuff... she's trying, anyway... actually, we're supposed to go antique shopping for her apartment this afternoon...
Sounds good...
We really should get together sometime soon... II'll definitely call you this week 
What, are you trying to get rid of me?
No... no, it's just that I should get going in a few minutes, and 
Aren't you even going to ask me how I'm doing?
II'm sorry... uh so... uh... how 
I dunno... okay, I guess... I fucked that guy Josh finally...
...so... is he your boyfriend now?
Maybe... I dunno... He wants to be, of course. I'm weighing several offers at the present time...
I'm going to this stupid art show and I want you to be my date... There's something I have to show you...
I... I don't know. I don't really think I should...
Of course you should. C'mon, I'm already a million hours late.
...I better not...
Well forget the art show... let's do something else.
I... I wish I could, Enid, but I really can't right now... I  it's just that I 
Well when can we do something?
It's just that, well, you know, Dana just got out of a really bad relationship and I don't want to give her the wrong idea... you know...
Oh, uh... they were a present from Dana.
And you like them?
Well, you know... what do I know about clothes... I've never been the most fashionable guy  it's nice to have someone do all the work for me...
So that's it? You don't ever want to see me again?
No, of course I do... It's just that right now I need to 
What's her problem anyway? Did she actually tell you you couldn't see me?
No, no... not exactly... she just doesn't understand how I would know somebody like you...
What does she mean by that  "somebody like me"?
Just someone so young...
You must have done something to make her think you like me.
I... I don't think so.
Does that mean you don't like me?
No, of course not.
So, do you like me, Seymour?
In what way do you mean?
In whatever way you think I mean.
I don't know... I'm sorry, but Dana's a very jealous person. I just don't want to screw that up right now... I'm sure she'll dump me soon and we can go back to being friends...
I don't think you understand how I really feel about you, Seymour.
...What do you mean?
Nothing. Don't worry, I won't bother you any more.
What are you doing here?
I had to see you.
What's up?
Can you at least let me in?
Uh... sure... come in.
Look, I just need somebody to be nice to me for five minutes and then I'll leave you alone.
What's the matter?
Do you have anything to drink?
Uh... I think there's some root beer...
What about this?
That's Dana's  I'm supposed to be saving it for our twomonth anniversary. You better not 
FUCK DANA. I'm sick of Dana.
You need a bigger place  this is like a little kid's room.
I could never move  I've got too much stuff.
Where did you get this?
Dana bought it when we went antique shopping. She said it didn't go with her stuff, so she gave it to me... she thought it fit in better with my "old time thingamajigs."
Jesus, how can you stand her?
God, she's going to kill me... this bottle is halfempty!
That's great! "Halfempty"  that's what I like about you, Seymour, you're a natural pessimist!
If you expect the worst, you're never disappointed.
What are you talking about? You're disappointed every minute of your life.
I'm just being realistic.
At least you're not like every other stupid guy in the world  all they care about are guitars and sports... they're all such fags!
I hate sports.
How come in all that time I was trying to get you a date, you never asked me out?
You're a beautiful young girl... I can't imagine you would ever have had any interest in me, except as an amusingly cranky eccentric curiosity.
Yeah, but still... it's kind of insulting for a girl to be ignored like that.
I mean... of course I... why wouldn't I want to go out with you?
I dunno... I always feel like everybody secretly hates me. I'm just paranoid I guess. I mean, you like me don't you? We're good friends, right?
Yeah, sure. Of course.
...Maybe I should just move in here with you... I could do all the cooking and dust your record collection and stuff until I get a job.
What about Joe?
Oh yeah... and Dana... You were a lot more fun before you met Dana. You've been acting way too normal lately... you're a bitter, twisted, fuckedup guy, Seymour, that's why I like you.
Yeah, well I like you too...
You know what my number one fantasy used to be?
What?
I used to think about one day not telling anybody and just taking off and going to some random place... Do you ever think about stuff like that?
I guess I probably used to when I was your age.
It would have to be some totally average day when nobody was expecting it, and I'd just disappear and they'd never see me again.
Sounds like a healthy way to deal with your problems.
You know what we should do? Let's go get in your car right now and just take off! We could just drive away and find some new place and start a whole new life... fuck everybody!
I don't think I'm in any condition to drive.
I'll drive, then  we'll go out in a blaze of glory!
So where would we go?
Who cares? Let's just go... what's stopping us?
I dunno, I...
I'm serious! I'm just so sick of everybody! Why can't I just do whatever I want?
What do you want?
What do you want?
III...
What's the matter with you, Seymour? Don't you like me? Be a man for once in your life!
God, Dana's going to kill you!
...Do you really want us to drive away somewhere?
What?... Maybe... no... I dunno...
I will if you want to.
No... forget it...
II never expected anything like this to happen...
Yeah, well... me neither...
You must know I always... did you really mean all that about moving in with me?
I was just thinking out loud... I mean, you've got this whole thing with Dana  I'm not going to let you fuck that up...
But, I...
Shhh... I really need to get some sleep.
I really want to talk to you. I've been thinking about what you said about moving in here...
I can treat him any way I want to  I'm an adult! Leave me alone!
That's five hundred dollars.
What?
Five hundred.
You're crazy  it should be like two dollars!
I was wearing that dress the day I lost my virginity.
Well why do I care about that?
Why do you even want it? It would look stupid on you.
God, fuck you!
Well, if it isn't Enid and Rebecca, the little Jewish girl and her Aryan friend.
You're late, asshole.
Fine, and how are you?
Did you bring that tape?
You never paid me for that tape with the Indian dance routine.
I did too!
Tsk! You Jews are so clever with money...
Fuck you, you stupid redneck hick!
Thanks for the tape  I'll have to pay you later, I'm broke.
Hey, where are you going?
Later, "Dude".
Hi... what's your name?
Norman.
...are you waiting for a bus?
Yes.
I hate to tell you this but they cancelled this bus line two years ago... There are no buses on this street.
You don't know what you're talking about.
Didn't they tell you?
Tell me what?
Punk rock is over!
I know it's over, asshole, I 
If you really want to "fuck up the system"  you should go to business school  that's what I'm gonna do: get a job at some big corporation and fuck things up from the inside!
That's not even 
Yeah yeah yeah. Do you have my money?
Oh, how "punk."
That tape sucked, by the way!
I'm so sorry if you were offended!
Go die, asshole!
Get a job!
A what?
A mongoose... they eat snakes... you never heard of a mongoose? That's a classic piece of vintage taxidermy. Nobody alive today knows how to do work like that.
How much is this?
Umm... That's not officially for sale... I might have to hang onto that for the time being.
Perhaps the "Jaminator" appeals to you. Absolutely no practice necessary. You shread like a giant. Just press a button.
That's okay...
Do you have any other old records besides these?
Seymour does.
Who does?
Him. Seymour. He's the man with the records.
You still interested in that?
I thought it wasn't for sale.
I'm thinkin' maybe I could let it go...
It's kind of falling apart.
Don't mind me, I'll just be in my room.
Where did you get those pants?
It's really quite something to see you all grown up like this, Enid. I'd love to hear about what you're doing. I can't help but feel that I had some small part in how you turned out... What are you studying? You were always such a smart little girl.
I'm taking a remedial high school art class for fuckups and retards.
May I ask what you're doing?
Shhh!
I want to know what you think you're doing, staying out all night and worrying your father to death!
Oh yeah, like he even noticed.
Listen, young lady... I know you don't like me  I don't really care whether you do or not  but I will not allow you to treat your father the way you do.
Oh my God, you guys! I can't believe we made it!
Yeah, we graduated high school  how totally amazing.
So what are you guys doing this Summer?
Nothing.
I'm going to be in this actor's workshop, and I'm hoping to start going on auditions soon. I'm so excited to finally have some free time. We have to get together this summer!
Oh yeah, that'll definitely happen...
Well, bye you guys... CONGRATULATIONS!
Oh my god, what are you guys doing here?
What are you doing here, Melorra?
My acting workshop is across the street from here. I'm just on my break.
Well, we won't keep you.
I love this place... it's so  you know, "funky."
What about me? Am I not even here?
Oh, hey Enid... So... we finally made it!
We're not.
Really? Both of you?... Why not?
Just because.
What are you going to be when you grow up, Todd?
Well I'm going to major in Business Administration and, I think, minor in Communications.
See, that's exactly the kind of thing we're trying to avoid.
God, what a bunch of retards...
I thought Chipmunkface was never going to shut up.
I know, I liked her better when she was an alcoholic crack addict! She gets in one car wreck and all of a sudden she's Little Miss Perfect and everybody loves her.
It's totally sickening. Let's see if they gave me the right diploma...
What?... Oh suck my fucking dick!
What?
These assholes are saying that I have to go to Summer school and take some stupid art class!
Why?
Remember that stupid hippie art teacher who failed me sophomore year? I didn't think that just because you get an "F" that means you have to take the class over again.
You loser.
This is so bad, it's almost good.
This is so bad it's gone past good and back to bad again...
Just think, we'll never have to see any of these creepy faces ever again.
Unless they're in your Summer school class!
Shut up!
Uh oh... don't turn around...
What? Why?
Forget it...
Since when is she an "actress"?
I know, she needs to die immediately.
Oh my god, look! Is Stacy Himmler going out with Rod Harbaugh?
How perfect.
He better watch out or he'll get AIDS when he daterapes her.
God, just think, we'll never see Dennis again.
Good.
God, think about that... that's actually totally depressing.
Hi.
Look at these people behind you. I'm totally convinced they're Satanists.
Why?
Just look at them!
So, when are we going to start looking for our apartment?
Soon... I have to wait and see how this Summer class goes.
Did you sign up yet?
Yeah, I just picked the one that sounded the easiest.
God, it's so weird that we're finally out of high school... We've been waiting for this our whole life! Now we can get our own apartment and do anything we want. It's such a weird feeling.
I know, it hasn't really hit me yet.
Hey, look, the satanists are leaving!
We should follow them!
Much later.
In fact, never.
What do you do if you're a satanist, anyway?
You know, sacrifice virgins and stuff...
That lets us off the hook.
Maybe there's some weird secret satanic society that meets at the Quality Cafe and all of the other regular customers are in on it except for us.
Or maybe not.
Maybe they're slowly poisoning us or they're planning to brainwash us and 
Okay, okay!
Hey, look at this...
"Authentic 50's diner"? Since when were there minimalls in the 1950's?
God, it's so totally pathetic.
Who can forget this great hit from the 50's?
I feel as though I've stepped into a time warp!
Hi, Al!
Can we call you "Weird Al"?
I might actually get the pasta special.
You loser!
Did you notice all those weird things on the menu? Like "The Salad Explosion"?
I know... and instead of "dessert" it says "Mindbenders."
What does that even mean?
Check out the Personals... maybe our future husbands are trying to contact us.
God, this paper is so boring. Who reads all this shit? Here we go... "Windsurfing Doctor, Mensan IQ, maverick Sagittarius. Let's hit the clubs, make each other laugh!"
You can have that one.
Okay, well here's yours... "Who said all the most eligible bachelors are taken? Not this one! Stunning bod, very snugglelicious ocean sunset dreamer."
Gross.
Jesus! Listen to this one: "Do you remember me? Airport shuttle, June 7th. You: striking redhead with yellow dress, pearl necklace, brown shoes. I was the bookish fellow in the green cardigan who helped you find your contact lens. Am I crazy, or did we have a moment?"
God, that's so pathetic. I bet she didn't even notice him.
I know. And he's like psychotically obsessing over every little detail.
We should call him and pretend to be the redhead.
Oh, we totally have to.
Does Oomie really like this show?
Isn't it weird? It's her favorite.
So what should we do?
Wait... I just want to see what's on this tape.
What is this?
I dunno. John Ellis always puts on all this sick stuff that I have to fastforward past to get to the good stuff. There's supposed to be a Don Knotts movie on here someplace.
Hey  why do you have this?
You lent it to me in like tenth grade.
I've been looking all over for this.
Look at how cute I am!
What a little hosebag.
Look, that's back when I hated you.
I remember every minute of that party.
There's my dad with Joanie.
I can never keep them all straight  was she the superbitch?
No, she was the second wife. The third one was the superbitch  Maxine. There! Look at her!
I want to do him!
I bet! Actually he reminds me of that one creep you went out with  you always go for guys with some lame, fake shtick.
What are you talking about  who?
That Larry guy  what look was he going for? A gay tennis player from the forties?
Fuck you!
Hey! We forgot to call the loser!
Which loser?
You know, the green cardigan guy.
Oh yeah.
You call.
Why do I always have to do it?
You're better at it.
I remember when I first started reading these I thought DWF stood for "dwarf!"
What does it stand for?
Shh, it's his answering machine... We hear the indistinct traces of a musical message followed by a faint BEEP.
God, I think Josh is too mature for us.
I know, look at the way he drives... he's like an old man.
Yeah, Josh, c'mon... MOVE IT!
Look, maybe that's him!
It's still twentyfive minutes early.
I want to "make love" to him.
I'm going to tell him you said that.
SHUT UP!
She says she wants to MMPH!
Is he wearing a green cardigan?
What exactly is a cardigan anyway?
It's obviously him!
I can't believe it!
What's going on now? What's he doing?
Oh my god, he just ordered a giant glass of milk!
What's he doing now?
He's still just sitting there. God, this is totally unbearable!
Do you think he knows?
I dunno...
Are you sure?
Totally! Look!
He's insane!
We should follow him home.
He doesn't even look that bummed out, really.
I know... wouldn't you be totally pissed off?
This kind of thing must happen to him all the time.
This is way too creepy.
He won't see us... we'll just stalk him from a distance.
I'm afraid if I see him, I'll start feeling really bad again.
The W.C. Fields Fan Club Newsletter... Oh my God, The National Psoriasis Foundation!
Bingo!
What should we do? What if he recognizes us?
Come on, it's too late now...
Ew, look at this...
Gross!
I think it's cute  look at his little weasel teeth.
Ew, it's like some gross rat...
That was truly pathetic.
I know... I still can't get over that his name was "Seymour."
He was so excited when you bought that record  you're a saint!... God, these apartments are super expensive...
It was so cute how he had his own little bags. I thought I was going to start crying!... Do you think they're gay?
What about the "striking redhead in the yellow dress"?
Oh yeah...
He should totally just kill himself... Hey, here's one ...Oh wait... you have to share it with a non smoking feminist and her two cats...
I dunno... I kind of like him... He's the exact opposite of everything I really hate... In a way he's such a clueless dork that he's almost cool...
That guy is many things but he definitely isn't "cool"... This one would be okay, but there's no kitchen...
Yeah, but... you know what I mean.
Not really...
Forget it, I can't explain it...
We're not sure yet, that's why we're looking.
Somewhere downtown.
"Funky"?
What, is she black now?
I've been thinking about when we look for our apartment how we have to try and convince people that we're like these totally rich yuppies...
What are you talking about?
That's who people want to rent to. It's a known fact that it's way easier to get a job and everything if you're rich... All we have to do is buy a few semiexpensive outfits and act like it's no big deal... it'll be fun.
You just want an excuse to dress like some stupid fashion model without me making fun of you.
Just promise you'll do it.
Okay, okay, I promise... Jesus, you're out of your mind.
What? How long have you been standing there?
Did you have to buy new hair dye or did you still have some left over from eighth grade?
Fuck you, bitch!
We still have to go in there sometime.
It's always closed...
I bet they have tons of incredible shoes hidden in the back.
Where are we going?
Let's go hassle Josh.
"Hassle"?
There he is...
As always.
Waiting for the bus that never comes...
I wonder if he's just totally insane and he really thinks a bus is coming or 
Why don't you ask him.
JOSH!
JOSH!
I'll bet he never jerks off...
Yeah, he's beyond human stuff like that.
Should we leave a note?
Why are we going here? I hate this place.
It'll only take a second.
What was that all about?
It's not like I'm some modern Punk dickhead... It's obviously supposed to be a 1977 Punk look, but I guess Johnny Fuckface is too stupid to get it!
I didn't get it either.
Everybody's too stupid!
How about this one?
Hey, you have to see my new good luck charm.
Ew ... when did you get that?
This morning at Seymour's garage sale.
God, aren't you tired of Seymour yet?
How about this?
Forget it. I'm sure it sucks. All these movies suck.
Let's get out of here, this place makes me sick.
We have to do something fun tonight this is my last weekend of freedom before I start my stupid job.
I know a party we could go to...
What? Where?!
It's a surprise.
I don't believe you.
If I promise you there's really a party with a lot of guys, do you promise you'll go?
I totally, totally hate you.
Aw c'mon, this is a fun party.
I'll be right back, I'm gonna go get a beer.
Wait...
Give me all your money, bitch!
Where did you get that?
You won't believe it! Guess!
Where?
Anthony's II!
No way... when?
Just now... I went with Seymour.
You cunt!
That guy is totally amazing.
He does that every single day.
God, how can you stand all these assholes?
I don't know... Some people are okay, but mostly I feel like poisoning everybody.
At least the wheelchair guy is sort of entertaining...
He's a total asshole... He doesn't even need that wheelchair, he's just totally lazy!
That rules!
No, it doesn't. You'll see... you get totally sick of all the creeps and losers and weirdos.
But those are our people...
Yeah, well... So when are you going to get your job?
I'm working on it... I've got a few leads... it's just that right now I have, all these projects that take up all my time.
Like what?
Nothing. Don't worry... I promise I'll get a job next week.
God, I can't believe you went to Anthony's without me.
...you don't have to make a million dollars  just get any stupid job so we can at least start looking for an apartment.
I wonder if I hang around with you because you're like my surrogate mother figure or something. Like I have this subconscious biological need to be nagged and bitched at constantly.
You hang out with me because nobody else can stand to be around you.
Or maybe... did you ever think that deep down we really might be lesbos? Maybe that's why we spend so much time together.
You're gross. See that guy?
Which one?
He gives me a total boner!
He's like the biggest idiot of all time!
You're just jealous.
Yeah, right... Believe me, at this point I'm over the fact that every single guy likes you better than me!
Face it, you hate every single boy on the face of the earth!
That's not true, I just hate all these obnoxious, extroverted, pseudo bohemian losers! Sometimes I think I act so weird because I'm crazy from sexual frustration.
Haven't you heard about the miracle of masturbation?
...maybe we should be lesbos...
Get away from me!
Are you kidding? It's a dream job! I can't believe you got a job like that without even trying... God, I wish that was my job...
Yeah, maybe it'll be okay. At least I'll get to see every movie for free, I guess... I had to lie and tell them I already graduated...
When are you finally going to get your diploma?
I dunno, but next week is my last class...
Anyway, now we can start looking for the apartment... Do you remember when we first came up with that whole idea of renting our own apartment?
Wasn't it like eighth grade?
Seventh... you wanted to move out right then!
That must have been when my dad was married to Maxine...
I remember our big plan was as soon as we got the apartment we were going to trick Daniel Dusentrieb into coming over and then fuck him.
We were such desperate sluts back then.
What are you talking about? What kind of loser gets fired after one day?!
I told you  my manager was a total asshole! Don't worry, I'm going to get another job... and anyway, I have some ideas for how to make money in the meantime...
This is it? I can't believe you're selling some of this stuff.
Fuck it. Everything must go!
Oh my god, I remember this hat... this was during your little old lady phase...
What was that all about? I thought everything must go!
Oh yeah right, like I'm gonna let some asshole with a goatee own Goofy Gus.
Now are you going to get a regular job?
Don't worry.
If it makes you feel any better, I don't think you could've gotten more than ten bucks for all this stuff.
Yeah, thanks.
Do you want to do something tonight?
I can't, it's Seymour's birthday... Shit! What time is it? I have to go to the store! I was going to make him a cake...
Well, are we still going shopping tomorrow?
Yeah, I guess... call me...
I think one of us should fuck Josh...
Go ahead...
No, really...
God, you're really obsessed...
I am not  I just think it'd be funny to see what he'd do...
I thought we decided that Josh was way too cool to be interested in sex, and that he's the only decent person left in the world and we would never want to bring him down to our level and all that...
Yeah, but maybe one of us should at least try...
No matter what happened it would be a big disaster... Let's just try and keep everything the way it is.
Look, we have to get these...
I can't afford stuff like this right now.
I'm sick of waiting  we need to start getting stuff if we're ever going to move. Aren't these the greatest towels?
Why do you care about this kind of stuff?
Don't you want nice stuff?
I can't imagine spending money on towels.
You don't have to. I'll pay for all the stuff right now and you can pay me back when you finally get a job.
You're insane.
Do you still want to go to that thing tonight?
What thing?
That guy's band is playing tonight... Alien Autopsy.
Oh yeah... maybe... Seymour's going on his big date tonight and I kind of want to be around when he calls, so I can hear how bad it went.
God, I'm so sick of Seymour.
Hello?
Do you still want to do something tonight?
What happened to Seymour?
I can't believe it  he actually scored!
How repulsive!
So should I come over?
Actually, I'm just about to go out with some friends...
What are you talking about? Who?
Just some people from work...
I don't believe you.
Yeah well, you said you were busy... look, I'd better get going... I'll call you tomorrow.
Where are we? This is a weird neighborhood...
It's a totally normal, average neighborhood!
I just mean it's weird to me... I've never been anywhere near here in my life.
Josh says this is a really good neighborhood...
What? When did you see Josh?!
He came into work.
Why? What did he say?
Nothing.
When was this?
I don't know! God, don't act so jealous I only talked to him for two minutes.
Twentyseven fiftythree... do you see it? That must be it...
Great...
What?! It looks totally normal... what's wrong with it?
I said "great"...
Oh yeah, I can tell you really love it!
Well, what am I supposed to say? "I can't wait to live in some depressing shithole in the middle of nowhere"?!
There's something wrong with every single place we look at! Why don't you just come right out and tell me you don't want to move in with me?!
Because you'll freak out and act like a total psycho about it.
You're the psycho! You haven't been able to deal with anything since high school ended!
You're the one who's still living out some stupid seventhgrade fantasy!
FUCK YOU! Have fun living with your dad for the rest of your life!
Hello?
I need to talk to you.
I'm sorry about the other day. I don't know what's wrong with me... I really do want to move in with you.
I don't know... I was thinking maybe I should live alone. I decided to rent that place we looked at. I'm moving in next week.
Please let me come with you. Please please please...
I don't know  I'm not sure it's a good idea.
Of course it's a good idea... it's our plan.
But how are you gonna pay rent and everything? You don't even have a job.
I'll get a job tomorrow, I promise. If I don't, you can totally tell me to fuck off.
So, whaddya think?
It's fine.
So where's all your stuff?
There.
That's all you're bringing?
I'm gonna finish packing tonight... I'll bring it over tomorrow sometime.
What time?
I dunno...
Make sure you're here by noon  we have tons of stuff to do... Oh yeah! I have to show you something else!
Hi.
Oh, hi... I almost didn't recognize you  I think I need to get glasses; you're all blurry!
You're lucky then, you can't see the veins on that guy's biceps.
Actually, he's a really nice guy.
Do you want anything?
Maybe an orange juice.
Wow... finally.
It just came yesterday...
Well hello there, young employee of the Sidewinder.
Look, I already told you I'm not going to give you a ride.
What can you tell me, young man, about the various flavors of "frozen yogurt"?
Look, I'll be done in a minute. Just wait outside.
I'm afraid I don't understand. I simply wish to know 
So Josh...
Look, can we talk in a minute? I'm almost done.
That guy rules!
Who, Doug? He spends more time here than I do...
So Josh, will you give us a ride? Please? Pretty please? It's going to be super fun!
No.
Why do you even need a ride? You could walk there in two minutes.
It's just an excuse for us to spend time with you.
Aren't there a million places like this?
This is the ultimate. It's like the Taj Mahal of bad, fake 50's diners.
So, where's "Weird Al"?
SHH! He's back there. I can see his hair bobbing up and down.
Yeah, right.
No, I'm serious. Give us your whole basic philosophy in a nutshell.
That's not him... Jesus, stop freaking me out.
In answer to your question, I suppose I endorse policies that are opposed to stupidity and violence and cruelty in any form...
I figured something like that...
Jesus, look at this guy.
Oh my God, that's HIM!
Forget it.
Come on, Josh... don't you want to see where he lives?
No.
But this guy is like a oneofkind, rare butterfly, and we have to follow him back to his natural habitat...
You need counseling.
Hi Josh.
Hi.
I just stopped in to say hi.
Yeah, well... hi...
Hi... what's up?
Can I come in?
Are you the one who left that note?
I guess.
Do you want something to drink?
Why?
What do you mean "why"?
Are you trying to get me wasted so you can take advantage of my womanly charms?
Yeah, right...
"Yeah, right"... well why not? What's so wrong with me?
Nothing.
Then why do you hate me so much?
When did I say I hated you?
You've never once said anything even remotely nice to me.
You make me nervous! I always feel like you're going out of your way to make me feel uncomfortable so you can laugh at me!
That's just the way I am!
Yeah, well 
It's just my stupid way of getting attention! God, I practically love you, Josh!
You must have known all along how I  you know  how I felt about you  it must be totally obvious... God... I always used to dream about this...
Why do you have that stupid poster?
Oh, hi...
Why do all guys have to play stupid guitars? It's so typical... Either they're into cars or guns or sports or guitars... it's so obvious...
How long have you been up?
I couldn't sleep... I should get going; I feel really weird...
Do you want to go get breakfast somewhere?
I don't think we should... Look, you have to totally promise me you won't tell Becky about this.
Why not?
Because if you do, I'll kill you!
Okay... I promise.
Just take my word for it... if she ever finds out about this I'll never hear the end of it...
Hi Enid.
Hey Josh.
Are you ready to go?
I'm gonna let you handle the four thirty crowd by yourself  that way I can evaluate your performance while it's slow and ease you into the bigger crowds.
You can count on me, sir!
What are you doing? You don't ever criticize the feature!
Why? What difference does it make? You already got his money...
Look, that's the policy... if you want to make up your own rules you can open your own theater...
But I was only trying to be friendly...
Look, we don't pay you to be a movie critic  just do your job.
Okay, okay... I won't say a word...
What the hell is wrong with you?!
What? I'm just kidding around with the customers... It's my shtick!
Well lose it! And why aren't you pushing the large sizes? Didn't you get training about upsizing?
But I feel weird... it's so sleazy.
It's not optional!
Jesus...
And what can you tell us about this...
Enid. It's sort of like a diary I guess.
Who is this, Enid?
It's supposed to be Don Knotts.
And what was your reason for choosing him as your subject?
I dunno... I just like Don Knotts.
I see... interesting...
These are all valid comments, but I think we should see if the artist has anything to bring to this.
Well, I got the idea when I was doing some research and I discovered that Cook's Chicken used to be called Coon's Chicken, and so I decided to do my project based on this discovery as kind of a comment on racism... and the way racism is whitewashed over in our culture...
Did you actually do this painting?
Well, no  it's more like a "found art object."
And how do you think this addresses the subject of racism?
It's complicated... I guess I'm trying to show how racism used to  more out in the open and now it's hidden, or something...
And how does an image like this help us to see that?
I'm not sure... I mean... I guess because when we see something like this it seems really shocking and we have to figure out why it's so shocking?
Enid, can I talk to you for a minute?
Uhoh.
Don't worry  it's nothing bad. I was just wondering what your plans were for next year?
I'm not really sure  working, I guess...
Well, I know this is really short notice, but I got a call from a very close friend at the Academy of Art & Design and she tells me that I'm allowed to place one student from your graduating class in a one year scholarship program... and, well, I hope you don't mind, Enid, but I took the liberty of submitting your name.
Hmm.
As far as I know it includes housing and meals and everything... it is really quite an offer...
...wow...
So what do you think?
I dunno... Would I have to take classes and stuff?
Well, yes...
I...
Let me know as soon as you can, Enid. This could be a great thing for you.
Enid! I'm so sorry about what happened.
What do you mean?
The whole business with the art show and the newspaper  it's absolutely 
Huh?
Didn't Principal Jaffee call you?
I didn't check my messages...
Oh my goodness... well, the whole thing is just ridiculous, and as soon as the school board is back in session next Fall I'm going to do everything I can to help you.
Help me what?
Well they're forcing me to give you a nonpassing grade in the class because of what happened at the exhibition... but don't worry  I'm sure I'll be able to get you your diploma in the Fall!
But... can I still get that scholarship to the Art Academy?
I'm sorry, Enid  you have to be an official high school graduate before I can nominate you. I had to give it to someone else... But I'm sure next year I can 
That was great  jeez, thanks again for cooking all this.
Oh I love to cook. I guess most women wouldn't invite a man over on the first date, but I believe you should trust your instincts. When I talked to you on the phone you just seemed so... I don't know... harmless. Ready for ice cream?
Here we are... it's mocha mint from Lickety Splits. Oh, isn't that photograph just heartrending?
Yeah ... where is this? Bosnia?
Was it Bosnia? I forget... It's so sad, the tragedy of an entire country eloquently captured in the face of one little boy. A Soul/Funk song starts up on the radio that catches her attention. She goes over and turns it up.
Oh, I just love this song! Isn't it great? Doesn't it make you want to dance? C'mon!
Uh, well, that's okay  I don't dance, heh, heh...
Don't be silly, anyone can dance. Here, just follow me... watch my feet.
No, really I 
Hey, it's nearly nine already  we're gonna have to leave now if we're going to make that movie.
Oh, all right... Partypooper! Just let me put a few things away.
I'm so excited to see this film  Dustoffvarnya is such a brilliant director! Did you see his last film, The Flower That Drank The Moon? It was simply glorious!
Uh, no. I missed that one. But what do I know? I like Laurel and Hardy movies.
Really? I never really cared for those. Why does the fat one always have to be so mean to the skinny one?
Seymour?... uh... hello... I guess I'm a little early...
Dana! Hi! Uh, Dana... this is Enid...
Hello...
Seymour! Hello! What are you doing here?
Oh  please  don't let me interrupt finish your phone call.
We're almost done. Hi. Yeah... no, it's excluded. They've already paid the earnest money... well, let them bring it up if they notice it at the final walk through. Right, great, sounds good!
Hey... so, what brings you down here?
I uh... I feel that I need to uh  there's something I feel I have to say... I uh, I've never said this to anyone before  believe me, I've stayed in horrible relationships for years just so I wouldn't have to do this, but I uh...
What are you trying to say?
It's just that I feel like it's maybe not a good idea for us to keep going out.
II honestly never intended for this to happen...
Please tell me it isn't that teenager!
Enid and I were just friends. You know... we feel comfortable around each other... she really likes my old records and...
I can't believe this! I thought at the very least a guy like you would never pull this kind of shit on me!
Have you seen my blue spatula?
Nope. What are you making, pancakes?
Not if I don't find that goddamn spatula.
Will you get off my back for once?
It's tough to find a good job without any kind of training.
Look, I told you I'm not going to college.
Well, I think it's good to keep all your options open. You can always enroll for the winter quarter. You could even live here and go to the city college part time, and still get a job if you wanted to.
Look at me  I'm not even listening to a word you're saying.
Did I tell you who I ran into at the bagel place?
Who?
Guess.
How should I know?
Someone from the past.
Who?
Give up?
YES.
Maxine.
Not the Maxine?
Yup.
God, how horrifying.
Hi. Look, I'm kind of tired  I think I'll go to bed.
I made spaghetti. Do you want some?
II really have to get up early for class tomorrow.
I have some good news for you, Pumpkin.
What is it now?
Are you still looking for a job?
I guess.
Well, Maxine thinks she can get you a sales job at Computer Station. Normally you have to have references and at least two years of experience, but she thinks she can convince them.
Tell her to forget it  I don't need her help.
Pumpkin? What's wrong?
Nothing.
It's nothing  it's just some hormonal thing... don't worry about it...
I've got some important news to tell you, but it can wait till later if you're not feeling...
What?
Well... as you know, Maxine and I have been seeing a lot of each other, and we decided it might be a good idea for all of us if she came back here to live at the end of the Summer, just so we can all get to know each other and to make sure this is what we want.
Pumpkin, are you in there?
Are you going to yell at me?
About what?
Yeah, I heard about that.
I was in a horrible mood  tell her not to worry, I'll be completely out of her life in a few days.
She understands what you're going through and she really wants to help you. She says that job at Computer Station is still available if you want it.
II'm not sure... yeah, maybe.
Actually, I was just checking to see if you were here  your friend Seymour is on his way up.
What do you mean "on his way up"!?
I just buzzed him in.
What's wrong with you?! Tell him I'm not here!
But I can't 
JUST DO IT!
I thought you say Tuesday.
Better late than never.
What's this?
You got a leak in the number nine compartment.
No, no. You got leak.
You pump it out and reseam the hull, she'll be good as new.
That cost me twenty grand at least.
Fifteen, at the most.
Twenty. You knock off twenty and then we see. After my guy looks at it.
You're kidding, right?
You want fair pay, make hamburger for Mickey D. Otherwise, please to sign.
What seems to be the trouble, ladies?
Whyn't you mind your own business, chief.
As I said, what seems to be the trouble?
Didn't you hear me, grandpa? Or you got your hearing aid turned down?
I heard you. But I'm choosing to ignore you. Epps, let's go.
These ladies was having themselves a discussion and you're interrupting it.
You got about two seconds to get your paws off me, Tarzan.
Or what?
Greer to Murphy.
Go.
The number nine on the starboard side's half flooded. Epps says it's a slow leak just under the waterline, about twenty gallons an hour. They must've pumped it before we left Sitka.
Of course they did.
Let the buyer beware.
What do you say, Dodge?
Not bad for dragging a leaky tub half way to Russia.
He'll sell the scrap for three times what he paid.
I must be in the wrong business.
You got that right.
Better than "making hamburger for Mickey D."
Red sky at night, sailor's delight.
Red sky in morning, sailor take warning.
Yeah.
There's a large vessel out about ten miles to the northwest.
I been watching it for close to an hour and it hasn't moved. I can't raise it on the radio either. Makes me think it might be in trouble.
Alright. I'll be right up.
Too deep to anchor out there.
Looks like it's adrift.
Call the Coastguard?
Steer to one eight five. Let's check her out.
It's funny.
How's that?
Besides a little rust, everything's pretty wellpreserved.
Murphy, goddamit.
Sorry.
Whatever the reason, she's adrift and abandoned. We've got every right to salvage her.
You mean tow her back? That's a thirty thousand ton ship you're talking about.
We've done it before.
All we got to do is hit some rough weather and you can forget about it.
So we cut her loose and wait it out. A little weather couldn't be anything she hasn't seen before.
Some classy tub in it's day, huh?
Yeah.
Morning.
You're up late.
Guess I must've fallen back to sleep. Where's Epps?
How much you figure that's worth, skipper?
Hard to say. Maybe forty, fifty million.
Ho, baby!
If they thought it was lost at sea, they probably just wrote it off.
Not for fifty million. An ocean liner maybe. But fifty million in gold, they come looking for.
So what? We gonna unload the gold and get a move on?
We leave it where it is. Stick to the plan.
Yeah, but we still gotta haul that big piece of shit all the way back to Sitka.
It's worth the effort. Believe me. Besides we're gonna need her to prove the salvage.
I heard that.
Dodge, you gotta get on those repairs.
What now?
We could call for help.
And get a bunch of fools sniffin' around here?
Fifty million four ways. That's twelve million and change a piece. What you gonna do with your share, skipper?
Not much at all, I guess. Retire. Live out my golden years and all that.
Greer?
Moving to Sweden.
I don't know.
Let's just take it easy here, alright? Nobody's gonna kill anybody.
Supposing he wants to get bad with us?
I say we offload some of that gold now.
Would you hold on just a minute here, please? Look, there's no reason to panic now. Epps saw somebody. Fine. It's a big boat. Chances're real good he doesn't even know about the gold. If we stay cool, nobody'll be the wiser. The gold stays where it is til we're ready to go. Like I said, it'll be a hell of a lot safer there than here.
Pretty low all around.
We'll have to take it easy then. I don't think we'll find much aboard the ship, but it's probably worth looking around.
Holy shit.
Couldn't have happened much more than a month ago.
Greek citizen. Merchant navy. Obviously we aren't the first to come across this ship. They probably stumbled across it just like we did.
And look what happened.
Maybe Epps's mystery man had something to do with it.
Maybe.
Never been more thirsty in my life.
Drink up then.
How're you feeling?
Lost my sea legs.
What happened?
You don't remember?
Last thing I remember I was aboard the Chimera. Down somewhere in there scavenging around.
You've been out for about a day.
Say what?
Dodge found you out cold in one of the cabins.
Oh, man.
We heard you scream. Any idea what you might've seen?
I wish I could tell you. I'd be real interested to know myself.
We're not gonna be able to pump it!
Alright. Everybody grab your gear! This' is where we get off!
We ain't exactly in what you'd call your high traffic neighborhood either.
The coast guard has our last position. They'll send somebody out soon enough. A ship this size you can't exactly miss.
Gettin' a little hot under the collar, I'd say.
Shut up.
Must be a little too the truth, eh Dodge?
It's a Noaa buoy.
A what?
Government weather. It's got a transmitter aboard.
We're still drifting.
The mooring hasn't come taught.
He took the shotgun and a light.
Must've heard something below deck and went down to check it out.
Can't find the shotgun.
So whoever did this now has our shotgun.
Doesn't look like it much matters.
What about the gold?
Leave it.
Now hold up just a minute. Let's be reasonable here.
You think whoever did this is reasonable?
All I'm saying is that gold's worth a lot more to us now than it ever was.
Nobody's going anywhere with that gold now. Anybody tries to board, we'll know about it. You can do what you want, Greer. But neither of us is gonna risk saving your ass down here if it comes to that.
Fine with me.
Candy?
It's my pen name.
Go on.
Salvage fees on a vessel like this could come in around four million bucks. At least. Who knows, could be more. Could be a lot more. What I'm proposing is... we split it four ways.
The law's on our side. If they want to challenge it, let them try.
They must've scuttled it. Nobody just lets a ship float away.
Coffee?
Yeah. Thanks.
What'd you find up there?
Some charts. A crew manifest. Looks like her last voyage was January 1953. The question is where the hell's she been since.
She was sailing up north, right?
Her destination was Halifax, yeah.
Well, suppose she got a little further north than she should have. Got stuck in the ice. The passengers and crew evacuated. She froze into the ice pack, which moved further north, where it froze in solid. They write it off. Fifty years later, the whole global warming thing happens. The ice melts, she gets loose and floats around til somebody runs into her.
Ever heard of the Mary Celeste?
Nope.
She was a twomasted brig boat sailing out of New York in 1872. One day she was sighted off the coast of Portugal by a merchant vessel, the Dei Gratia. As the crew of the Dei Gratia got closer, they discovered that no one was at the helm of the Mary Celeste. On boarding, they found her completely deserted. The captain, his wife, their daughter, and the entire crew, all gone. The last entry in their log made no mention of any trouble. The table was even set for dinner. And in the nine days after the last entry, she sailed 700 miles without anyone aboard.
So what did happen?
Nobody knows. There've been a lot of theories, of course. But we'll never really know for sure.
You think she's sailing without a crew?
I think we'd be surprised where a drifting ship might wind up with a little wind and the right current.
You're more practical than superstitious.
Only way to be.
Maybe they didn't want it back. Maybe the whole fat deal was insured.
Maybe. But there's always somebody whose interest's at stake.
Why not call for help?
For now the best thing we can do is to keep quiet about this.
Take it easy, you'll live longer.
Did you see him?
Who?
The guy. He just came this way.
What guy?
There's somebody else on this boat.
What? What the hell're you talking about.
I saw him. Just a minute ago. Some guy.
Are you sure?
Of course I'm sure. I saw him.
You sure it wasn't me?
It wasn't you. It was somebody else. There's somebody else aboard.
So, we find this guy and make a deal with him.
We don't exactly have the best bargaining position.
Guess that'd be me. Again.
Dodge, get on that turbine. I don't care if you don't sleep for a week. The sooner you're done, the sooner we can get out of here. How's the food situation?
No cowboy shit up there, understand?
No cowboy shit. Right.
Got your light?
Yup.
Murphy to Epps.
Epps.
You just shoot at something?
Yeah. Just a bird. Just a stupid bird.
Just before I heard him yell there was somebody on the radio.
Greer?
I don't know. No. Not Greer. Somebody.
He needs a doctor.
I'll call us in. Dodge, see how many signal flares you can scrounge up. Keep an eye on him.
How's he doing?
Same. Any luck?
No. I'll try again later.
They're dead in the water that morning. Four hours later the captain's relieved of his command. And that evening they issue a general SOS.
Possibly false. Hence the IMA record of being lost at sea. I don't think mutiny's out of the question here.
You're saying they mutinied for the gold?
If they were close enough to shore, they probably figured they could get away in the lifeboats.
Only something must've gone wrong.
The ah... the radio's out.
What?
Somebody took it out of commission last night.
Smashed it up pretty bad.
But, who  ?
"The crew have gone mad with greed and fight among themselves like wild dogs over fresh kill."
February first.
The same day she supposedly went down.
Must not've been the captain's entry. He was probably out of the picture by then.
"Their lacking diligence has undoubtedly caused the collision. Distress calls have been made."
Collision? With what?
The page's missing. Then their SOS was real.
But where's the damage?
Maybe the other ship took the worst of it.
If it was a ship she hit.
It's a good bet they'll be asking a lot of questions when they get here too.
Let 'em ask. This ship's legally ours now.
It's not gonna hold us.
Doesn't matter.
Hey.
Hey.
Couldn't sleep.
Wish I could say the same.
What do you think happened on this boat?
I guess that's the sixty four thousand dollar question, isn't it?
The what?
Never mind. Before your time. I think at least some of the crew went a little nuts. The usual stuff that happens when people stumble on a fortune. Equal parts greed and paranoia, usually resulting in homicide. What happened after that is anybody's guess. But, judging by our Greek friends down below, it doesn't look like the last time.
Are we smart enough to avoid that?
I don't know, are we?
When you found me yesterday, at the pool. I'd seen... something. Someone.
Not our mystery guest again.
No. Someone else. A girl. I'm not sure she was... real.
What, like some kind of ghost?
I don't know what else you'd call her. One second she was there, the next she was gone.
Maybe hallucination is the wrong word. It was more than that. As though they were showing me.
Showing you what?
What happened.
Maybe it was one of them did the handy work on those Greeks.
No. I think they are, were, just passengers. Innocent victims.
Victims of what?
Something bad happened here, Murphy.
That much I think we've already established.
More than just a mutiny. More than just the gold.
She said the ship was evil. That we had to leave right away. That if we didn't, we might never leave.
What's that supposed to mean?
I don't know.
Why you? How come the rest of us haven't seen these people?
Just lucky I guess.
Murphy to Epps.
Epps, over.
Either of you seen Dodge?
Nope.
He's not on deck and I can't raise him on the radio.
Epps? You there?
Right here.
What do we do with him?
Leave him till we can get some help. From now on, nobody comes down here.
What do you think?
Could be a stroke. Who knows? The general log said the crew were fighting among themselves. "Like wild dogs."
Over the gold.
Maybe it was more than that.
They went crazy.
Crazy with greed. Not crazy. Not like him.
Hard to say which is worse, staying here or taking our chances in open water.
If the weather holds it might not be so bad.
It's not the weather I'm worried about. The wrong current could drag us as far as the Aleutians before we come across another boat.
What happened?
We hit land.
What?
We're in an island chain. It's only a matter of time before we hit another one.
Greer's gone. He broke out of the tank.
You killed them.
It was only a matter of time before somebody killed somebody. You saw it coming as well as I did. Dodge had his plans, starting with scuttling the boat. And Greer too, except he went nuts. Couldn't take it, I guess. Could've happened in the middle of downtown Anchorage. But did it make him any less dangerous? I don't think so.
So you killed them?
The way I figure it, it was them or me. I thought putting Dodge up on that pipe was a nice touch? Bought a little time. Made it look like whoever killed those Greeks was still around. But it's just us on this ship. Us and your... spirit friends.
And now you're gonna kill me, is that it?
I didn't want it to turn out this way.
Murphy, don't you see what's happening?
I think I see it pretty well.
It's the ship. The ship's making you think this way.
I know a little bit about human nature and what I've seen only confirms that.
It's a trap. There was no way we were gonna get away with that gold. Nobody ever does. It's just the bait. This ship sucks people in and it never lets them out.
I think maybe you been on this boat a little too long, with all that supernatural mumbo jumbo. There's nothing supernatural about greed. And that's what it comes down to, pure and simple.
I don't give a damn about the gold.
I wish I could believe that. Either way, you know what I've done. I've got no choice.
What's slow?
Maybe twenty gallons an hour.
Morning everybody.
Show your tatoos to that coxswain last night, did you Epps?
Showed him a hell of a lot more than that.
I bet you did.
Could be a fishing boat.
Too big. More like a freighter.
Looks like one hell of a stick up his ass.
He'd let you off at the nearest port, that's for sure.
You mean, before she sank.
Cargo like this could make a crew think twice.
Then why didn't they take it.
Probably didn't have time.
Two hundred twenty two kilograms of solid gold.
That's what I call a payday.
Hell yeah.
That's a good thing?
Hell, yeah. I like it cold. Colder the better.
What'd he look like?
Maybe six feet. Lanky. I didn't get a good look. He was far away. But I saw him. I saw him as sure as you're standing there.
Coffee.
You're a pal.
Stay away. Or else.
Because of the gold.
Any dizziness?
No.
Headache, nausea, lights?
Lights?
Sudden flashes of light.
I feel fine.
I don't even want to know what that's gonna taste like now.
Better than starving to death.
You okay?
Yeah. Fine. I just thought I heard something is all.
What?
Nothing. Let's get outa here.
I can't believe you. Dodge's dead and all you can think about is cashing in your share.
I didn't sign up to go home empty handed. And I sure ain't gonna roll over for the freaky motherfucker did this.
You aren't jealous, are you Dodge?
Are you kidding me? Jealous? Epps? Gimme a break.
What the hell would a freighter be doing up here? It's way out of the lanes. There's not a port for 800 miles.
Smugglers maybe.
Yeah, from one side of the harbor to the other. But we got half the Bering Sea and the whole Alaskan gulf to drag her over.
You have any idea how much a ship like that could be worth in salvage? The fittings alone could go for a few million.
If you get it back in one piece.
It's a risk I'm willing to take.
It's a bloody navigation hazard. One boat can't control a ship that size.
The damn thing's been floating around for God knows how long and it hasn't hit anything yet. So we take it easy. A little of the old push pull.
With a little extra fuel, weather permitting, we should make Sitka in five days without another stop.
Sounds reasonable.
Mother fucker!
What is it?
Threw a turbine blade.
The number one turbine's pretty well trashed. Number two runs, but it's way underpowered.
How long to fix?
Hard to say. I gotta get in there and have a look. At least a couple days. Depending.
What's this?
Turbine rotor's shot.
I thought you said it was just a blade.
Metal's crystallized. Gotta replace the whole deal.
How much longer's that gonna take?
Like I always say 
I know I know, two ways to do anything 
The right way and the wrong way.
But how long?
Hard to say.
We gotta get outa here, Dodge. A storm blows up and we're history.
I'm telling you, you don't want to be running that fan like it is.
What about running number two by itself?
It's a full 2500 horses down. We couldn't drag that boat down hill on ice with it.
How long, then?
I gotta pull the blades and reseat everything in a new rotor  .
How long?
Three, four days.
Goddamit, Dodge.
What do you want me to tell you, that we can throw this sucker back in and start pulling her like nothing happened? Can't do it, skipper.
Obviously it's some kind of screw up. The shipping records aren't a hundred percent accurate.
Man, it gives me the creeps. We got no business towing a ship that size anyway. I say we fix the turbines and hit the highway.
Went aboard.
She take a radio?
It's a hell of a lot of money.
What, you think there's something funny about it?
A ship with fifty million dollars in gold aboard, adrift? And nobody seems to care enough to come looking for it?
Didn't happen yesterday, I'll tell you that. Torn parts rusted bad as the rest of the boat.
Then it happened before they scuttled her.
Or somebody stopped them.
Either way, they must've had a pretty good reason.
So what're we gonna do. That's the big question, right?
A salvage claim to a vessel's cargo's as valid as a claim to the vessel itself. It's ours.
Then we're rich. We're damn, filthy stinking rich.
It looks like it.
You gotta be kidding? What the hell we need that tub for, we got fifty million bucks?
So we get a little more for the boat. Besides, the gold'll be safer where it is.
Yeah, yeah. I'm on it.
The sooner we get under way, the sooner we are to spending what's ours.
I'm buyin' me a nice outrigger. Spend my time hauling rich Seattle business men through the Puget.
How about you Epps?
Dreamin's all any of you're gonna be doing if we don't get this boat running.
Yeah, yeah.
Sounds like the hull.
Warm water current maybe, making the metal expand.
If somebody's aboard her already, she ain't ours. She's theirs.
Bullshit. That boat hasn't made steam for fifty years. We found her. She's ours.
Not in the eyes of the law.
I say fuck the motherfucker. We're a professional salvage crew going about our business. What's some yahoo doing way out here by himself anyway?
And what do you propose? That we knock this guy off?
Why not? Why the fuck not?
What if that fucker finds it before we're ready to go?
We'll stand a watch. Four on, eight off. Low man first.
If he's reasonable, maybe we can make some kind of deal. If not. We'll have to reconsider our options.
Yeah, reconsider fucking his shit up.
Bodies're too fresh.
Fresh ain't the first word that comes to mind.
Damn barbaric is what it is.
Could be meant as a warning.
That'd be my guess.
So whoever did this might still be around.
Can't you use something else?
I might be able to find something on the ship. But it's gonna take time.
Do what you need to do. Just do it fast.
Right.
Dodge to Murphy.
Murphy.
You better get down here quick, skipper. I'm on "C" deck. Cabin 400.
What is it?
I think you better see this for yourself.
It was a man's voice. Repeating some sort of children's rhyme. I don't know, it didn't make any sense. You didn't hear it?
Not me.
On a passenger ship in 1953?
If they knew what they were carrying.
So. I got a question. Just from a, you know, purely technical standpoint. We call the Coastguard. Coastguard shows up. What exactly is the plan?
How do you mean?
Well, they're gonna be asking a lot of questions. About us. About those bodies. About the gold. Seems like we oughta be prepared is all.
I guess the best strategy's just to tell them the truth.
Yeah, well. The truth is one thing. When there's more than a few hundred million dollars involved, that's a whole new deal.
What do you propose?
For starters, getting that gold off the ship. What they don't know about isn't gonna bother them.
There's no way we're gonna hide a few thousand pounds of gold from the Coastguard here. Besides, it'll be safer where it is.
With all due respect, skipper. Part of that up there's mine. I'd kinda like to have a little say in what happens to it.
Just what the hell do you think you're doing?!
I don't know what you're talking about?
I think you know.
Maybe you can tell me then.
The radio!
The radio. Oh, yeah, the radio.
Take it easy, willya? What about the radio?!
You smashed it!
What?!
Don't lie to me!
What the fuck  ?
You didn't want us calling anybody. Too liable to ruin your big payday.
I didn't touch the fucking radio.
I didn't touch the fucking radio! Ever occur to you there's somebody else on that boat, skipper?
Conveniently enough for you.
Look, I didn't touch it. Alright?
Yeah.
You better get down here right now! We're taking water! Big time!
What the hell happened!
Turbine chamber on number two must've blown! Took out part of the hull!
That oughta buy a man pretty much anything he wants.
If money can buy what he wants.
I don't figure there's much I want money can't buy.
Then you're a lucky man.
We'll stand the watch on deck tonight. You're up first.
Right.
Tomorrow we'll see if we can't find some line and tackle. Use some of those bodies below decks for bait.
There's a charming thought.
You're late.
Sorry.
Don't fall asleep.
Right.
Where from?
Amidships starboard at the beam. Just under the waterline. I don't think it's a problem.
One more?
Why not.
What is your first name?
What?
It just occurred to me I don't know your first name. All this time and I don't know it.
Maureen.
What?
Maureen.
Maureen?
Roger.
Roger?
Yeah.
You think that's funny
No.
Probably slipped her moorings, got tangled up in a current.
Out here? What, so a seven hundred foot passenger liner drifted out of Spokane harbor and nobody managed to bump into her until now?
Somebody's probably looking for her as we speak.
Seeing as though a foot of one of these fuckers weighs about a hundred pounds, it ain't gonna be what you'd call easy. Any questions?
Supposing one of those cables breaks under tow.
Then we'll all be doomed. Any other questions?
Ready?
Bring it on, dude.
Nobody just scuttles a passenger liner either.
Ever heard of insurance, big boy?
If this thing turns out to be a ship everybody thought sank a long time ago, we just hit the jackpot.
Yeah, well how the hell you get something like that wrong? That's a damn big boat. It's either sunk or it ain't.
Last thing we want is extra partners.
Or uninvited guests.
This's gonna hurt a little.
Thanks for the warning  Ow! Damn!
What other choices have we got?
I tell you one thing, we're not gonna be towing no ship now.
Guess I'll just keep working.
What're you crazy?
I like my job.
Light in those passages ain't so good.
I'm telling you, I saw somebody. I don't know who it was. But I saw somebody.
Maybe that is his boat.
Gimme a break.
Fifty million dollars. Fifty million. We gonna let this guy just take it from us? One guy?
So we kill him?
I'm saying we gotta do whatever we gotta do to preserve our interest.
One guy isn't gonna be so stupid.
Maybe he isn't alone.
Pretty handy with that scatter gun, Epps. You raised on a farm?
Seen a lota movies.
Smokes?
Oh yeah.
I'm no doctor. But I'd say he's in a coma.
A what?
I don't know what else you'd call it. He's breathing on his own, but his pupils are completely blown out. He's totally unresponsive to pain. What happened up there?
I heard a scream. When I got there I found him on the floor. He was having some kind of seizure. I didn't see anybody else.
Other than the obvious, there's nothing wrong with him that I can see, not on the outside.
Then what the hell happened to him?
Try Wednesday.
Right. Wednesday.
Did you?
Hell no. You think I'm crazy?
What say, Epps? You up for some roasted albatross?
Why not?
Dodge. Dodge.
What?
Get up.
Yeah, yeah.
Hear that, Dodge? Epps don't think it's a problem.
I'll sleep good tonight knowing that.
Looks like Epps' gonna get some tonight.
With that coxswain dickhead.
Hypothetically speaking, what if we get this boat to Sitka and find out somebody wants it back?
They shoulda thought of that when they let her float away.
I don't care what, ain't nobody just gonna let us walk away with a ship that size.
You think the extra strain caused it?
Nah. Everything was cool. It's just one of those things.
How about now?
Sixty pounds.
What? You sure?
That's what it says.
Lemme see.
Are you crazy? Do you realize we got ourselves a ship? We own a ship, Dodge.
Yeah, a ship that's supposed to have been lost at sea fifty years ago. You don't think that's just a little freaky?
Fucker!
Take it easy, Dodge. It's only a piece of metal.
Damn mind of it's own.
Morning, skipper.
One minute I'm minding my own business, the next thing I know the whole place is burning up. An oxygen tank must've blown on the welder. Started an oil fire.
Looks like it took out the backup genny too.
What's so great about Sweden?
It's a beautiful country. Very clean. Very civilized. And cold.
Yeah, but not as cold as those Swedish girls you only gonna dream about.
We'll see who's dreamin', m'man.
Where's his boat, then? Where's his crew? He ain't gonna be out here by himself, that's for damn sure.
She's so big somebody could come alongside her on the other side and we'd never know it.
Let's not be too hasty.
Yeah. Hell, what difference does it make if we report it now or later? We call this in now, gonna be Coastguard, FBI, who knows who, all over the place.
I need lag bolts, especially one inch standard. And sheet metal. Preferably steel, about a sixteenth of an inch. Aluminium, even tin'll do.
I ain't no mechanic, just so you know.
You find anything that even looks like a compressor. I don't care what, grab it.
What day is it?
I don't know. Tuesday?
Wrong. It's Friday.
When they find out what it's carrying, they may not be so interested in what's legal.
Maybe you shoulda thought a that before you scuttled our boat.
The turbine blew.
Lemme see, was that before or after the oil fire?
You'd think on a ship this size there'd be something left to eat.
After fifty years there ain't nothin' left but shoe leather.
Arctic Warrior, Arctic Warrior, Arctic Warrior. This is United States Coastguard Station North Island. Over.
North Island, I wish to declare myself salvorinposession under section four two charlie of the International Maritime Convention.
Affirmative, Arctic Warrior. What type of vessel?
A passenger liner. Over.
Say again. Over.
A passenger liner, north island. Over.
What is the vessel name, registry, and present position? Over.
Passenger vessel "Chimera." I will spell: charlie hotel india mary echo romeo alpha. No registry information is available at this time. I have determined to the best of my ability that the vessel has been abandoned on the high seas at position one seven four west, five seven north at... Two zero one four hours zulu time. Over.
Affirmative, Arctic Warrior. Please advise your salvage authority pending registry check. Over.
Roger, North Island. Arctic Warrior over and out.
North Island, please repeat? Over.
Arctic Warrior, passenger vessel Chimera was lost at sea day two month two year one nine five three. Over.
North Island, have you got any additional information? Over.
Affirmative, Arctic Warrior. The vessel Chimera was registered to The Dobbins Kirk Line, Halifax. Nova Scotia. Date of commission day nine month seven year one nine three two. Over.
Roger, North Island. I am tied to the passenger vessel Chimera. And she is afloat. Repeat, she is afloat. Over.
Roger, Arctic Warrior. I say again, our records indicate the passenger vessel Chimera was lost at sea. Over.
Roger, North Island. Please advise pending further information. Over.
Affirmative, Arctic Warrior. This is United States Coast Guard North Island Station. Over and out.
Arctic Warrior, Arctic Warrior, Arctic Warrior. This is United States Coastguard Station North Island. Your radio check is affirmative. Over.
Roger that, North Island. Arctic Warrior whiskey alpha sierra bravo four zero niner two. Over and out.
Karen. Wow. Look at you...
Hello, Martin.
I'm sitting here, I'm looking at you and I'm having these flashes. You know, flashbacks, of memories. Of us.
Really.
Yeah and I'm wondering, how did it go wrong? How did it all... slip away?
'It' didn't slip away, Martin, you did... when you went off to fuck Nicki in the middle of my birthday party.
Oh, for Christ's sake 
I know. I'm doing Shylock instead of a shylock. Okay, what's my motivation? The acquisition of money. To collect. Inflict pain if I have to.
Lufkin. His... agent.
Yeah, Karen knows him.
But you are interested?
I'm intrigued, yeah. You know what might help you, take a look at the Cylone again, the way a visual fabric is maintained even while the metaphor plays on different levels. Hey  This your ride, Chili?
Hi, sweetface. You look great. And mmmmm, you smell good, too.
Thanks.
I have to consider, I mean, as the mob guy, this is another man's wife I'm sleeping with.
And after all, you have such morals.
Which two?
Once their lives are in danger and you have the mob guy coming after them, it not only heightens the tension, it adds a wistful element to their love.
Mob guy?
I have to run. But what I hope to see, they begin to have misgivings about wanting the money. It becomes their moral dilemma and they try to rationalize keeping it, but in the end they can't. Can they?
What money?
The three hundred large. What other money is there? I should keep quiet, I know, till I've read the script, but I've got a feeling about this one. I'm that shylock.
Shylock?
What's wrong?
Be quiet and listen.
I don't hear anything.
When I came upstairs, you stayed to finish your drink. I told you to turn off the TV when you were through. Come to think of it, I also told you you could sleep in the maid's room.
Yeah, well I turned off the set. I used the remote control thing and laid it on the floor. You know what could've happened? The dog came in and stepped on it, turned the TV back on.
I don't have a dog.
You don't? What happened to Muff?
Harry, are you going down, or you want me to?
Anyone skim the pool? It needs it.
Harry 
I'm going.
How did you get in the house?
He's telling me an idea for a movie. It's not bad so far. Sit down, have a drink. Tell Karen, let's see what she thinks.
Maybe you didn't hear me.
That Miami flight that went down, it was on the news every day for about a week. Harry must've been busy.
That's where you got the idea?
With your experience, you could always become an agent. Right, Harry?
Yeah, that's what we need. More agents.
Well. I got an audition tomorrow.
No problem. You go on off to bed.
What I'm saying, Harry, is I want you and your new buddy to get out of my house.
Oh, yeah, sure.
Harry, what're you still doing with those guys?
He happens to be loaning me five hundred grand, no strings, I write any kind of agreement I want.
Harry, we spoke with Martin.
'We?'
Chili and me.
Harry 
Man's in town two days, thinks he's David O. fucking Selznick.
Hello, Doris.
Harry Zimm. You look like a wet kiss.
Well, aren't you gonna offer me whatever it is you taste like?
Come on in.
What a spectacular view.
Yeah, lovely. Last night I watched two guys carjack a Camaro down on the corner of Argyle there. What do you want, Doris?
I miss Murray, Harry.
Yeah, me too. He was a helluva good writer. And I would know. I discovered him. Made him what he was.
What he was, was a hack, couldn't get a job writing for anybody but you. I'm being honest. He was a lousy writer, but he was a good husband. I just didn't know it until too late.
I'm not sure how I feel about this, Doris.
You seem to feel fine about it.
I mean morally. Murray was my friend.
Murray's dead.
So this means you've reconsidered our deal on Mr. Lovejoy?
No. But now that you mention it, I did talk to a handsome executive at Paramount the other day... who just happened to get his hands on the script.
Yeah, what'd he have to say?
He said if Martin's interested, I could get a half a million for it easy. But don't worry, Harry, I'm still giving you until Friday.
How honorable of you.
Yeah, but whose point of view?
Whatta you mean, whose point of view; The audience's point of view.
Get down here. I wanna talk to you. Come on... right now... She's gonna talk to Martin?
All these camera moves and weird angles and shit are gonna distance us from the emotion of the scene.
What 'emotion'? Girl just got stabbed in the ear with an ice pick.
She's scared! Fear is an emotion! Look, kid, if you remember anything from your time working with Harry Zimm, let it be the three key words to filmmaking.
Yeah? What three words, Harry?
Pick 'n' Save.
Hm?
You heard me, Pick 'n' Save.
So Mildred says to the cashier, 'I saw the new Streisand picture.' 'God, I just love it at the end when she brushed Robert Redford's hair off his forehead the way she did when they were together, and the way they gave each other this look that said they still loved each other, but knew they couldn't be together. That look was so... romantic.'
That's great, Harry. So what's the 
What she did not say was, 'I just loved the way the director moved the camera so much it made me fuckin' seasick.' All she cared about was that look. All she remembered was that look. And why do we remember things in movies? Because we can see them.
They're closing the Granview. You know, theater down on Biscayne?
Yeah, the guy owes Momo a few G's.
What I'm thinkin' is maybe Momo could buy it.
Momo could buy it, I could run it for him. Show some Cagney films.
What's Momo gonna want with an old place, shows old movies people don't care about no more. Outside of maybe turnin' it into a porno house, I don't think he's gonna give much of a fuck. And you already got a job.
You sure it was Ray Bones took the coat?
That's what the guy said.
Tomorrow, I see on the TV weather, it's gonna be nice and warm. You won't need the coat.
Hey, Chili. Get your coat, but don't piss the guy off, okay? It could get complicated and we'd have to call Momo to straighten it out. Then Momo gets pissed for wasting his time and we don't need that.
Don't worry about it. I won't say any more than I have to, if that.
No, I said I'm never goin' to bed. There's a difference. See, the article says most people die in their beds. I figure long as I stay outta bed, I'm safe.
That's the dumbest thing I ever heard. Where do you sleep?
In an armchair. Or I go to a coffee shop, sleep there. Sit in a booth, pull my hat down.
I told you not to 
Don't say a fuckin' word.
I hate to say I told you, but I did. I told you don't start nothing with him that time.
You said don't say nothing and I didn't.
No, you just broke his fuckin' nose instead.
You gonna start that again? You're just like him, all you got room for in your brain is one fuckin' thing.
All I know is he came by the barber shop, all fuckin' undone, wanting to know where you were staying in Vegas. I told him I don't know. I still don't.
How'd he know I was in Vegas? You tell him?
He already knew it.
Yeah, well, I'm in L.A. now.
Whatta you doing out there?
I'm going into the movie business.
What're you talking about? You wanna be a movie star?
I'm thinking about producing.
How you gonna do that? You don't know shit about making movies.
I don't think the producer has to do much, outside of maybe knowing a writer.
Hey, Chil? I think you're fulla shit.
The door from the patio, in back.
You broke in?
No, it was open. It wasn't locked.
What if it was?
Well, basically, this guy owes a shylock fifteen thousand, plus he's a few weeks behind on the vig, the interest you have to pay.
I know what a vig is.
The interest is four hundred and fifty dollars a week on fifteen thousand?
That's right. Three percent.
But a week. That's a hundred and fifty percent a year.
A hundred and fiftysix. Some'll charge you more'n that, go as high as six for five on a shortterm loan. So three a week's not too bad.
A real bargain.
A couple days ago by, people from the airliner come to see his wife, tell her how sorry they are and all that their plane exploded and offer her a settlement, the amount based on what he would've earned operating the dry cleaner's the rest of his life. Leo had some kind of trouble with his kidneys, so they were giving him about ten years.
How much is the wife offered?
Hey... Karen. How ya' doin'?
What're you doing here?
I wanted to come by, apologize for coming into your house like I did last night.
Lemme get this straight, you broke in again to apologize for breaking in before?
No, no... you left the patio door open. You gotta stop doin' that, all the nice things you got around here.
Yeah, well make sure you lock it on the way out.
Rough day on the set?
I spent all day crawling out of a grave. The costumer kept bitching 'cause I was ripping my nylons 
Ripped nylons work. Makes the shot more real.
...That's what we finally decided.
Like in "Bride of the Mutant", when you played the whole end with that torn top.
You saw that one?
Yeah. When you turn to the camera to tell the alien mother that her time on earth is finished... when you give us all that look, Joan Crawford wishes on her best day she had that much presence. Not even in "Mildred Pierce"  which by the way was a better book than a movie  did Crawford even touch the intensity you had in that look.
Yeah... that was a good scene. I mean, for a horror movie.
For any movie.
I know I'm better than what I've been doing the last ten years, walking around in a tank top and fuckme pumps, waiting till it's time to scream.
Man, can you scream.
Yeah. It's a real gift. I'm just saying it'd be nice, one time in my career to get the chance to say one great line. You know, like in that Bette Davis picture, "Cabin in the..."
"Cotton".
Yeah, you know when Bette comes up to the guy on the porch, gives him a flirty look and says, 'I'd kiss you, but...'
How come you stopped making movies with Harry?
I married Martin. That was a full time job.
You read Harry's new one? He says it's the best thing he's ever read.
He must mean after "Slime Creature 3".
That why Harry came over last night? See if you could help him get Martin in his movie?
Harry's dreaming of a fortymillion dollar production he'll never get off the ground with a star he'll never sign. With or without my help.
Harry told me Martin loves it, he flipped.
Yeah, well Martin is known for his flipping. He flips over a script, and when the time comes to make a deal, he flips out.
Tell you what, I'll stop by Harry's office and pick up a copy for you.
Don't go out of your way.
Well, I gotta have a talk with Leo, my runaway dry cleaner.
Right. See how your story ends.
Yeah. Right. Listen, "Touch of Evil"'s playing near my hotel. You wanna go check it out? Watch Charlton Heston play a Mexican?
You been here the whole time?
I just caught the end.
I got you a copy of the script.
I already read it. Harry left a copy at the house.
What do you think?
I think it's not horrible.
I don't like the title. Or the main guy's name.
Then you've read it?
Not yet.
You and Harry'll make a great team. I'm gonna make a deal with him.
There a part in it for you?
I don't want to act in it, I want to produce it with Harry. Especially if I help him get Martin.
Sounds fair.
What do you get out of it?
That why you came over here, to ask me that?
I want to know.
Why does anyone want to be in movies?
Yesterday, you were a loan shark.
I was never much into it. All that bullshit having to do with respect. It's bad enough having to treat those guys like they're your heroes, having to smile when they make some stupid remark they think's real funny.
And you think the movie business is any different?
Yeah well... I like movies. I figure if I help Harry make one, I'll find out what you have to do outside of have an idea and raise the money. That doesn't sound too hard. I was in the money business and I get ideas all the time.
This thing's actually accurate. I bought it for ten bucks from a kid in a lawn chair on Sunset...
You were supposed to wait for me with Harry at the restaurant.
Well actually, Martin the movie we came to talk about is Mr. Lovejoy.
Yeah. We understand you read the script and like it... a lot.
A locker at the airport? Jesus Christ, Harry. Tell me you're not really that stupid.
The guy's setting you up. You pulled out of their Freaks deal so he's paying you back.
That was Martin. He wants to have lunch tomorrow. That is, if you can make it.
Depends, who pays?
Definitely not Martin. Movie stars never pick up the check. They have no idea what things cost. Most of them don't know their zip code and a lot don't even know their own phone number.
How'd you meet Martin anyway?
Not unlike the way Nicki met him. Except it was a wrap party. Why?
I don't know, I'm just havin' some trouble seeing you two together.
You don't like Martin much, do you?
Oh, I like him. I just think he's... short. I mean, he's a good actor and all, but I'm wondering what it was exactly you saw in Marty.
For starters, Marty wasn't Martin back then.
So what about your story. You thought of a title yet?
How 'bout Get Shorty? Except that isn't a movie. That's real life.
How 'bout Chili's Hollywood Adventure.
That's a different story. I'm still working on that one, you know, getting the visual fabric just right. Although I've added to it.
Yeah?
Yeah. There's a girl in it now.
Really.
I think you could be an actor. I know you're acting sometimes, but you don't show it.
You thought I was faking?
No. I don't mean that. I just meant in general.
Oh.
You don't mean a movie star? More like a character actor?
Whichever. Let's talk about it tomorrow.
I mean I could see myself in movies Robert De Niro had been in. Or I could maybe do an Al Pacino movie, play a hardon. But I couldn't see myself in ones, like say the one where the three guys get stuck with a baby. They don't know how to take care of it and you see these big grownup assholes acting cute 
Hey, Chili? Look at me.
Harry... My God...
What happened?
What kinda food they serve at this Ivy place anyway?
Continental, but it doesn't matter. Martin won't order from the menu.
Why not?
Because a movie star can never order straight from the menu. They have to think of something they have to have that isn't on the menu.
Harry, what're you doing? You're supposed to be in the hospital.
Yeah, Harry, you look like you belong in one of your horror movies.
You sure?
He's doing the same thing you did to him, playing Letterman on TV.
It's not Dave. It's a movie.
Are you going down?
I don't know.
You're as bad as Harry...
I'll go. I'll go.
You okay?
Guy's got a fucking pink toilet, for Christ's sake.
Karen! What the fuck are you doing?!
Oh, shit... I'm sorry... I thought that was... I'm so sorry...
Were you scared up there?
You bet.
You don't act like it?
I was scared then, not now. How long you want me to be scared?
I'll be right back.
Go get your stuff.
What took you so long?
Couldn't find my toothbrush.
It's not one of these?
You see a black leather jacket, fingertip length, like the one Pacino wore in Serpico? You don't, you owe me three seventynine.
Maybe you don't see my sign?
We call you a taxi.
Lemme get this straight. You aren't responsible for any lost articles like an expensive coat of mine, but you're gonna find Ray Bones' coat or get him a new one? Is that what you're telling me?
Mr. Barboni is a good customer. Works for Jimmy Capp.
I know who he works for. Where's your phone.
I wouldn't think you're that dumb, leave over three hundred grand in the closet, underneath the extra blanket, but I guess you are.
I didn't know where else to keep it. Where would you?
You're here a while, what's wrong with a bank?
They report it to the IRS.
You don't open an account, Leo, you put it in a safe deposit box. Dip in whenever you want.
You've been losing.
I'm up twelve grand today.
From when? You left Vegas with four fifty?
Who told you that?
Now you're down to threeten in the case. You must've cooled off quite a bit since you got here.
How'd you know I was here?
Here's another tip...
It was Fay, wasn't it, told you about the money. She tell you my whole life history, for Christ's sake?
I wouldn't let her if she tried. Why I'm here, Leo, basically, is to save your ass.
How? By taking my money?
You can keep what you won today. That's yours.
It's all mine.
Sit down, Leo.
You take all my money, but you're borrowing part of it?
At eighteen percent, okay? And don't ask me no more fuckin' questions. I'm leaving.
But you won't know where I am. I don't even know where I'll be.
I'll find you, Leo...
Yeah. That was a good party.
You know, Marty, you were good in The Cyclone.
Martin. It was a beautiful role. All I had to do was find the character's center, the stem I'd used to wind him up and he'd play, man, he'd play.
Well, you had it down cold. Watching you in the movie, if I didn't know better I'd have to believe you were a made guy and not acting. Even the fink part. I never met a fink and I hope to God I never do, but how you did it must be the way finks act.
A few weeks before shooting, I went back to Bensonhurst, just to listen to you guys. See, I'm Italian, but I grew up in Tarzana. So I wanted to pick up your rhythms of speech.
We talk different?
It's more like your attitude. Your tone, your speech patterns demonstrate a certain confidence in yourselves, in your opinions, your indifference to conventional views.
You mean like we don't give a shit.
Yeah. Kinda. Anyway, once I have the authentic sounds of speech, the rhythms, man, the patois, I can actually begin to think the way those guys do, get inside their heads.
So you don't know what I'm thinking.
No, I don't. Though I have to say I'm curious.
So you want to know.
If you'd like to tell me, yeah.
I'm thinking of a movie.
One of mine?
One we're producing.
With what? Wiseguy money?
Martin, I'm not connected to those people anymore. Not since I walked out of a loanshark Operation in Miami.
What happened? The pressure got to you?
Pressure? I'm the one applied the pressure.
Guy owes me fifteen large and takes off, I go after him. The fuck you think I do?
Martin, look at me.
I'm looking at you.
No, I want you to look at me the way I'm looking at you. Put it in your eyes, 'You're mine, asshole,' without saying it.
Like this?
What you're telling me, you're tired? You wanna go to bed?
Wait. How about this?
Now you're squinting like you need glasses.
How about this?
That's not bad.
That's what I think of you, asshole. Nothing.
I believe it.
I turn it on when I confront the guy.
Yeah, but you haven't found him yet. The guy took off for Las Vegas.
How do I know that?
The wife sues the airline. This is a gutsy babe.
Goodlooking, too. Like Karen.
So when do I meet up with the husband and give him the look?
It's not that simple. You have to be careful. There's another guy that comes along, a hardon you owe some money to. A mob guy. Wants to take you out anyway, on account of a past situation.
Okay. I'm listening.
At that point, basically, that has to be it.
You're not going to tell me the rest?
Lemme talk to Buddy, set up a meeting.
Buddy?
Very nice...
Yeah, I like it, I'm high up, I can see everything, you know? It's the Cadillac of minivans.
What's that?
Compass.
Wow. Mind if I take it for a spin?
Whatta you think, Chill?
That's not bad. I think you got it down.
You cut straight hair in this place, or just fags?
Hey, Bones, looks like you're gonna have a nice scar up there. Maybe these guys can fit you with a rug, cover it up for ya.
You got a miss. Leo Devoe. Guy's six weeks over.
He died.
How'd you know he died, he tell you?
Yeah, he told me.
Personally?
Yeah, Ray, he personally told me he got killed in that Get Away Airlines' jet went down last month.
What Get Away jet?
It was in the Herald.
Yeah, well, maybe the guy took out flight insurance. Check with the wife.
Hey, it's your book now. You want to check it out, go ahead. He's got a dry cleaning business out on Federal Highway.
Which also means when I speak, I'm speakin' for Jimmy. So e.g. as of now, you start affording me the proper respect.
'E.g.' means 'for example', Ray. I think what you wanna say is 'i.e.'
Bullshit. E.g. is short for 'ergo'.
Ask your man here.
You owe me the dry cleaner's fifteen grand plus the juice which is what another, uhh...
Twenty seven hundred.
Exactly. You either get it from the wife or out of your own pocket, I don't give a fuck. You don't ever hand me a book with a miss in it.
Jesus, if I have a heart attack, I hope you know what to do.
Where you been, Harry?
Have we met? I don't recall.
We just did. I told you my name's Chili Palmer.
Did you stop to think what if I had a heart attack?
You look okay to me, Harry. Come over here and sit down. Tell me what you been up to.
I'm looking at you.
I want you to keep looking right here, okay?
That's what I'm doing.
You know Dick Allen, Mesa's Casino?
Dick Allen's a very dear friend of mine. How far you want to go with this?
We're there, Harry. You signed markers for a hundred and a half, you're over sixty days past due and you haven't told anybody what the problem is.
Operator, how do I get Las Vegas Information?
Harry, lemme give you some advice.
A marker's like a check, Harry.
I know what a marker is.
They don't want to deposit yours and have it bounce. That annoys them. So your dear friend Dick Allen's been calling, leaving messages on your machine, but you never get back to him. I happen to be in Vegas on another matter, and Dick asks me as a favor would I look you up. I follow you over here, see you in the window with this woman, looks a lot like that actress Karen Flores, was in Grotesque, except she's not blond anymore...
You're not looking at me, Harry.
Why do I have to keep looking at you?
I want you to.
You gonna get rough now, threaten me? I make good by tomorrow or get my legs broken?
Come on, Harry  Mesas? The worst they might do is get a judgment against you, uttering a bad check. I can't imagine you want that to happen, man in your position.
Fuckin' basketball game.
You make movies, huh?
I produce feature motion pictures, no TV. You mentioned Grotesque, that happened to be Grotesque Part II that Karen Flores was in. She starred in all three of my Slime Creatures releases you might have seen.
Karen, say hello to Chili Palmer. Chili, this is Karen Flores.
Karen, it's a pleasure. How you doing?
You want to hear this idea? It's about a dry cleaner who scams an airline out of three hundred grand. Go on, tell her.
You just did.
I mean, the way you told it to me. Start at the beginning, we see how the story line develops.
It's the kind of situation, you don't pay, you get your legs broken.
Or the guy thinks he could get 'em broken. You have to understand the loan shark's in business the same as anybody else. He isn't in it to hurt people. He's in it to make money.
Without him. The guy's so out of it he doesn't even know it's gone.
That's right. As a matter of fact...
Keep going.
Well, since Leo's name was on the passenger list...
So he comes to L.A...
I don't know about his wanting to meet celebrities, that's something new. But, yeah, he comes to L.A. Then after that, I don't know what happens.
That's it? That's your movie?
I said I had an idea, that's all.
That's half a movie, with holes in it. Maybe forty minutes of screen time. You don't even have a girl, a female lead, and on top of that, there's no one to sympathize with, you don't have a good guy.
The shylock's the good guy.
The shylock? He's barely mentioned. And it's not believable the wife would get a settlement that fast.
Part of it, yeah.
Wait a minute, you're not the guy, are you? The dry cleaner?
You mean, Leo?
You wouldn't be talking to me if you were.
I'm not the guy, Harry.
But you work for the casino?
I'm out here looking for Leo. I just looked you up as a favor to your dear friend, Dick Allen.
So you don't work for the casino?
Is that right, that's what you do for a living?
What I did till recently. After I get done here I'll think about what I'm gonna do next.
I imagine in your line of work, there were times you had to get rough, you know, say one of your customers stopped paying.
They always paid.
You pack a gun?
Not really.
What does that mean?
Maybe a few times I have.
Ever shot anybody.
Once.
Really? You ever been arrested?
I've been picked up a couple times. Loan sharking. Racketeering. But I was never convicted. I'm clean.
Racketeering, that covers a lot of ground, doesn't it?
These guys, my investors, they run a limo service, came to me originally, put money in a few of my pictures and did okay, they're happy. So they come in on another deal  this was back a few months ago when I was planning what would be my next picture, about this band of killer circus freaks that travel around the country leaving bodies in their wake. The characters, there's this seven hundredpound fat lady who has a way of seducing guys, gets them in her trailer 
Harry, look at me.
You're trying to tell me how you fucked up without sounding stupid, and that's hard to do. Let's just get to where you're at, okay? You blew the two hundred grand the limo guys gave you in Vegas on a basketball game and you haven't told 'em about it. Why not?
Because they're not the type of guys would take it with any degree of understanding or restraint. The first thing they'd do is break my legs.
You got that on the brain, Harry. If you're so scared of 'em why'd you take their money to Vegas to begin with?
Because I need half a million to buy a script.
For a movie?
A blockbuster. But quality. No mutants or maniacs. This one's gonna be my "Driving Miss Daisy".
What's it called?
"Mr. Lovejoy".
"Mr. Lovejoy"? That's the title?
It's not bad when you know what it's about.
Murray Saffrin, guy who wrote it, did all my Grotesque pictures, had it in a drawer for twenty years. He shows it to me one day, tells me he's got a star interested, would I produce it.
Who's the star?
Two time academy award nominee, Martin Weir.
Martin Weir. He played the mob guy that turned snitch in "The Cyclone".
One of his best parts.
No, his best part was the cripple gay guy that climbed Mt. Whitney.
"Ride the Clouds". Good picture.
She looks familiar.
She's a rock star. Every day, same time, they come down here and have breakfast. He has the egg white omelet; she has the banana pancakes. He sits facing west so he can see his billboard. She faces east so she has an excuse to wear the shades.
Anyway, Murray has this shrink, who also happens to be Martin's personal trainer's shrink. Murray gives the shrink the script and the shrink gives it to Martin's trainer who reads it to Martin while they work out, and Martin flips. Loves it.
So what's the problem?
The problem is Murray. He and a few other blocked screenwriters went river rafting down the Kern a few weeks ago. Murray never made it back.
He drown?
Heart attack. Apparently they brought a couple hookers along.
Doris, Murray's widow, finds out about this Martin Weir thing and says since Murray and I never had any written contract, she wants five hundred grand for the script.
So you're thinking what if I was to put you next to my dry cleaner. Ask him if he wants to invest his money in a movie.
That, or I'm thinking what if some tragic accident were to befall the widow Saffrin 
I'm not gonna pop her, Harry.
Just a thought.
But I could talk to the limo guys. Tell 'em to leave you alone for a while. Make the point in a way they'd understand it.
You don't even know these guys.
Harry, I probably know 'em better than you do.
What do you get out of this?
Let's see how we get along.
Lovejoy sits behind the wheel, watching the bar across the street, getting his video camera ready for action... What's he doing? Following a guy?
Read it. It's a grabber.
No leave 'em up, we want the light in their eyes. I'll be at the desk... but don't introduce me, let it go, just start talking. You're gonna be here, behind 'em when they sit down.
They'll be looking at you. They don't know who you are.
That's right, they're wondering, who's this guy? You don't tell 'em. Understand, Harry? Do not tell 'em who I am.
You don't say any more'n you have to. You say, 'Well, I'm glad you assholes stopped by, so I can set you straight.'
You're kidding, right?
What?
I don't know, maybe I wasn't clear. But I thought... I told you to keep your mouth shut.
I had to tell 'em something.
Never say anything unless you have to.
You tell me you want these guys off your back. Next thing I know, you're saying yeah, maybe they can have a piece of Mr. Lovejoy. I couldn't believe my fuckin' ears.
I said I'd think about it. What does that mean? In this town, nothing.
That's the difference between you and me, Harry. I say what I mean. I want something from someone, I ask 'em straight out. I want Martin Weir, I go get Martin Weir. I don't fuck around with his trainer's shrink.
His shrink's trainer.
How's anyone gonna see anything from way up there?
Hey, Harry.
Yeah, Chili. Hi. You're fifty feet in the air!
Here's your keys, Harry.
Get the fuck outta my chair.
Is he giving you a check or cash?
Cash. It happens to be waiting right at this moment in a locker at the airport.
Okay, Harry, I'm wrong. You're not the one he's setting up.
I mean, at least Bo's invested in three of my movies.
Really.
Yeah, he wants us to talk to Buddy, set up a meeting.
A meeting with who? You and Karen?
So how 'bout it, Mr. Selznick, do I make my deal with Bo? Or you gonna finally help me out, have a word with your dry cleaner when you find him.
I found him.
Forget about Leo's money, Harry.
You have it?
Harry, if I gave you Leo's money you'd have Ray Bones all over your ass and then you'd be in a whole new kinda trouble.
Who?
Ray Barboni. Guy from Miami, owns Leo now that Momo died.
Who the fuck is Momo? Jesus, these fucking names...
Tell you what, Harry, tomorrow morning, when the airport's crowded, I'll go check it out. If I don't see a problem, I'll pick up the money...
Maybe I oughta talk to this Ray Bones character myself. See if he wants to invest in my movie.
Don't waste your time, Harry. The guy's not much of a movie fan. Now c'mon, gimme the key.
Anyway, you want this guy, he's in L.A. We put him on a flight after he spanked one a my cocktail girls in the Keno room.
Leo spanked a waitress?
Apparently, way it went, he invited her to come to Santa Anita to play the ponies with him. She told him what to do with that and he gave her one on the tush. My guess, he's by his lonesome at the track right now.
Hey, Chil? Since you're goin' out to L.A. anyway.
What've you got?
Guy owes us a hundred and fifty grand, sixty days over; a movie producer.
Movie producer? Yeah, why not.
You live in Miami?
That's right.
What're you doing in Los Angeles?
I'm in the movie business.
You're an investor, is that it?
I'm a producer.
You have a card in here?
Not yet. I just started.
Your wife a Lakers fan?
I am. I'm a fan of everything that's L.A. I love it out here.
By the way, you recall the number of the locker you used?
It was C... I don't know, sixteen or seventeen, one of those. Why? You looking for anyway, a bomb or something?
Something shouldn't be there.
Why don't you get the attendant to open all the lockers and take a look. Maybe you'll find it.
That's the idea. I'll think about it.
That's what I'd do. Make sure I got the right guy next time.
Get him out've here.
Who the fuck are you?
Ray Barboni. From Miami.
What, like that's supposed to mean something to me?
The man you're steppin' on belongs to me and my partner.
He owes me money.
Get in line, bro.
I don't like waiting.
Tough shit, bro. This ain't Miami. You want something, talk to me.
Hey, fuckball, I don't need your permission. L.A.'s an open city.
You a quick draw... 'bro?' You better be, your piece stuck way down in your belt like that.
Whatta you got there... some kinda pop nine, the fuckin' Fiat of guns, always jammin' at the wrong time.
How'd you get in here?
I told them I was you. I acted stupid and they believed me.
So what brings you to L.A., Bones?
Don't insult me. Get up and turn around.
Why would I do that?
'Cause the guy's a customer now, stupid. His ass belongs to me.
I checked the bag at the airport, when I came.
Yeah? Which terminal?
Sovereign.
You found Leo, didn't you? Took the poor asshole's money and put it in a locker, ready to go. Why haven't you left?
I like it here.
Look, there's no reason you and I shouldn't get along. Forget all the bullshit from before  I don't even remember how it started. You took a swing at me over some fuckin' thing, whatever it was  forget it. You owe me some money, right? Forget that too. But, you don't say a fuckin' word about this to anybody. It's strictly between you and me, right?
Whatever you want, Ray.
Ray Barboni?
Who is this?
Are you the guy they called Ray Bones?
Depends. Who's this?
Who is this? I'm the one telling you the way it is, okay, asshole? That's who I am. Now you want your three hundred grand or don't you?
What three hundred grand?
The three hundred grand a guy named Leo Devoe scammed off an airline. The three hundred grand Chili Palmer now has in his possession.
Hello? You there?
Yeah, I'm here. I just don't like the anonymous crap. It means your either chickenshit or not for real.
Yeah? Well, trust me. I'm very for real.
Okay. So who are you?
I work for Harry Zimm, alright?
Who?
Harry Zimm. The man happens to be a major Hollywood player.
Never heard of him.
Maybe that's because you've never been out've fuckin' Miami, dipshit. Maybe it's time you got on a plane, flew out to L.A. and took a meeting with Mr. Zimm.
So, what, this Zimm guy asking for some kinda finders fee, that what we're talking about here?
Hey, Zimm doesn't ask for dick. Zimm tells you the way it is... or else.
Or else what?
Or else use your fucking imagination.
Where's Leo Devoe? Where's Chili Palmer? Where's my fuckin' money?
Ray. Look at me.
What?
Look at me, Ray.
You say look at you?
That's correct. Look at me.
I can hear you, but where the fuck are you, man?
What I been wondering is where's he been.
Yeah, where've you been? We haven't heard from you lately.
Okay. Then be good enough to hand us our money back, or you think about us coming in on this new one.
By Friday, man, or you're fuckin' dead as disco.
You get to town, you go straight to the bank, raid the limo account.
I'm already in town, but it don't matter. We got dick in the bank. We dumped it all in Harry's movie.
What I'm sayin' is the man wants his money and he wants it now.
Harry, you think we go to see your movies? I've seen better film on teeth. Makes no difference to me which one our money's in. So how 'bout you take our twenty points out of "Freaks" and put 'em in this other one, "Mr. Loverboy".
I can't do it.
You positive about that?
It's a different kind of deal.
Bo. I'm great. Listen, I'm expecting some people 
You must be makin' some big deals, doin' lunch in a place like this?
I'm working on a few things.
Yeah, I hear you bagged Martin Weir for Mr. Lovejoy.
Boy, this town. Word gets around, doesn't it?
Last night. When he called me over to your office to talk about it.
Chili Palmer showed you my script?
Yeah, I was wondering why he should do that.
Listen, Harry, how would you like to get your hands on five hundred grand? You pay me back at your convenience, no interest.
You serious?
All I want in return is to work on the movie with you. Fact I already got some ideas on how to fix it up.
How 'bout another one for Mr. Zimm. A double.
You're gonna just give me five hundred grand?
We'll talk about that, Harry. But first I gotta know, how'd you hook up with Chili Palmer.
He was watching Letterman, huh? Sneaky, that Chili Palmer. So, he ever find this dry cleaner, the one with all that money on him?
Leo, I don't know.
Assuming I go along with this, when can I have the five hundred?
Whenever you want it. The money's in hundred dollar bills inside one of those jock bags, you know? In a locker at the airport, waiting to be picked up.
The airport.
It was waiting out there on another deal, one that didn't go through; one you don't want to know about.
I don't know.
It's not the kind of thing you do.
C18.
That's the magic number.
What's this movie you're doing first?
Harry, let me answer that.
But first I want to know who I'm talking to. Am I talking to you, or am I talking to him?
You can talk to me.
That's what I thought. So let me put it this way...
You understand I knew Harry was lying, saying this wasn't any good, but holding on to it, man, like you have to break his fingers to get it from him.
That's funny, I was just wondering what I was gonna break of yours to get it away from you.
I'm just explaining to you what I'm doing here. Case you think I come to rob the place, rip off any of this dusty old shit the man has.
I'd never make you as a burglar, not in that outfit.
Harry called you his associate, but what does that mean? I never heard your name or read it in Variety or The Reporter or anyplace.
It's what he said, I'm his associate.
You must bring something heavy to the deal.
That's right, me.
Says here you're getting Martin Weir for the part of Lovejoy.
Yeah, we're getting Martin.
No shit, come on. How you gonna do that?
I put a gun right here... ...and I tell him, 'Sign the paper Marty or your fuckin' dead.' Like that.
I wonder, would that work? You know who I see for Al Roxy? Harvey Keitel. The man could do it in his sleep.
Harvey Keitel. Yeah. Maybe. He was pretty good in the movie "Fingers".
I missed that one. Or, hey, you know who else? Morgan Freeman. You know Morgan?
Yeah, Morgan Freeman. But he's a colored guy.
So what? Where's it say in this script he's white? Color is what the part needs, man, somebody to do it has some style. The way it is now, Ronnie could do it, play himself, some cracked out asshole. So whatta you think of the script?
Title's the first thing's got to go. And the guy's name. I mean, even this writer's name, Murray Saffrin is better than "Lovejoy".
I'm with you on that. And don't you think it needs a good female part? Increase the romance angle.
There's Ilona.
What about her?
Get something going there.
With Ilona? You know how old Ilona is?
She's... young.
Young? She's fuckin' nineyearsold, same age as Lovejoy's kid. Bernie. One she calls Bernard. Have you read the script?
Yeah, I read it. I was just thinking you could make her older. We might even be able to get Karen Flores.
Who?
She's been out of movies a few years, but she's good. Real good.
You know how to write one of these?
There's nothin' to know. You have an idea, you write down what you wanna say. Then you get somebody to add in the commas and shit where they belong, if you aren't positive yourself. Maybe fix up the spelling where you have some tricky words... although I've seen scripts where I know words weren't spelled right and there was hardly any commas in it at all. So I don't think it's too important. Anyway, you come to the last page you write in 'Fade out' and that's the end, you're done.
That's all there is to it, huh?
That's all.
I really think I can be of service on this one.
Yeah, well, we need a ride somewhere, we'll let you know.
I need the money.
What money?
The three hundred grand you got from a little dry cleaner named Leo.
Lemme see if I got this right, you break into Karen Flores' house, ask me for three hundred grand, doesn't even belong to you?
I can't believe the way you guys do business out here. I can't believe how fucked up your organization is.
Tell you what...
How 'bout I give you to three, then I organize your fuckin' brains all over the wall back there. One...
What, you gonna shoot me now, Bo?
In just a second. Two...
I don't believe this.
Three.
Karen? You okay?
She can't talk right now.
That's a nice scream, lady. You oughta be in movies.
Alright, Bo. You can have the money... but it's not here. I have to go get it.
Okay. Fine. The meantime, I'll just hang on to her for safe keeping.
You know Laurel Canyon?
I'll find it.
I'm at 8150 Wonderland Avenue. It's right off Laurel.
Gimme an hour.
Where's Karen?
In the can. That the money?
She's great. Gimme the money.
First you and me gotta get a couple things straight.
You broke in my house and I have a witness to it.
What?
Only this time, no John Wayne and Dean Martin shooting the bad guys in El Dorado.
It was Rio Bravo. Robert Mitchum was the drunk in El Dorado, Dean Martin in Rio Bravo, practically the same part. John Wayne, he also did the same thing in both. He played John Wayne.
Man, I can't wait for you to be dead.
Bear, you're not really gonna 
Where is my nephew?
Your who?
Yayo. Where is he?
He's my sister's kid. No papa. Not too bright. Personally, I think he's a retard. I only gave him the job as a favor for my sister, you understand?
Sure. Family. I know how that goes.
He comes up here with our product. He suppose to come home with five hundred thousand dollars. He never shows up. Meanwhile, my sister's going crazy calling me all the time worried about him. Me, I just wanna know what happened to my focking money.
Well, I don't know. I gave the man his money, sent him on his way.
You gave him the money?
I gave him a key to a locker that had the money in it.
Now why would you do that? Put the money in a locker?
Because there were a zillion DEA guys hanging around the terminal.
A zillion, huh? That's a lot.
Maybe your nephew panicked, took off.
Where's your partner, the jumpy one? Why isn't he here?
He's around someplace.
I hear he's around Palm Springs. Dealing our product. Product we sold to you for five hundred thousand dollars. Why do you keep talking to me bullshit? I think maybe I have Ramon and Ceasar staple your tongue to your chin. What do you think?
You know, you speak very good English, Mr. Escobar.
I went to UC San Diego. We're gonna spend the weekend at the Universal Sheraton. We're gonna take the tour. See the shark. Check out the Miami Vice Action Spectacular. After, we'll come here, get our money.
I don't know how I could've missed you with that shirt on. It's the same as the other one you had only the hibiscus are a different color. Right?
So you didn't have the key with you.
You think I'd be standing here? You set somebody up and you want it to work, it has to be a surprise. Can you remember that?
You spotted them, huh?
What, did you see it work in some movie you got beat up in?
I have to ask you for that key.
What, the setup didn't work so you want the key back?
Catlett says if you don't open the locker the deal's off.
You serious? This is how you guys do business? I can't believe you aren't dead.
Look, there's no fuckin' way I'm gonna give you the key, outside of you point a gun at my head. Then we might have something to talk about. Now step away from the car.
I don't need a gun. Where is it? If it isn't on you, it's around here someplace.
What're you hanging around with a guy like that for? You were in the movies, right? A stuntman? What's he ever done he can talk about? You feel okay?
Not too bad.
How 'bout when you went down the stairs?
I think I pulled my quadriceps.
So... how many movies you been in?
About sixty.
No shit? What're some of 'em?
Shit, now someone's gotta climb down there and get him.
You didn't have to shoot him, Bo. We coulda just beat him up some.
You see that? The way the man just went right over?
Cat, that's the lamest idea I've ever heard.
Yeah, well, I'm bored, Bear. I wanna make movies.
And I mean high up in it. That's why Harry's gonna make Mr. Lovejoy with me, not Chili Palmer.
Mr. Lovejoy? That's cute, Bo.
Doesn't matter what it's called, Harry's got Martin Weir and it's gonna be big.
They all sound big at the talking stage.
He knew it was a set up. He was ready for it.
So where's the money?
I guess still in the locker.
You guess? You mean you don't know?
I mean I don't care.
You see the paper?
I seen it, but I don't believe it. Says Harry shot Ronnie five times. Four to the chest and one through his foot.
His foot. Jeez, poor Ronnie...
Yeah, I'm really gonna miss him.
Listen, tonight, later on, I got one for you doesn't involve any heavy work. I want you to go have a look around Chili Palmer's hotel room.
I can't. I got to take Farrah to Satan's place down in Costa Mesa.
Who?
Her mother. Not that it matters because I don't work for you no more. I quit. I just wanted to come by, tell you to your face so there's no misunderstanding.
Whoa... This is the man used to jump offa high buildings?
Into air bags. There's no cushion under what you're doing. I'm out of it, Cat. I'm done.
Bear. The Colombians are in L.A. Seems they all upset about their money. That ain't enough, as a bonus, it turns out the yoyo was Escobar's nephew.
That's your problem. You shouldn't've smoked the guy.
He's gonna pleadeal his way out. Give up this ace stunt man now one of the West Coast dope kings, if they go easy on the Cat.
Come here, Farrah...
I heard in the Federal joints they let you spend an extra five minutes at the glass with your Daddy on Father's Day.
Farrah. Come here.
After this one, I'm out, Cat, you understand? This is the last time we talk to each other.
Remember Harry's story about the dry cleaner Palmer was after? Guy who stole the three hundred grand from the airline?
What about him?
I was thinking tonight you could go have a look around Palmer's hotel room while I go check out Karen Flores' place. See if he hasn't stashed it somewhere.
And if we don't happen to find it under Palmer's mattress or inside Karen Flores' undie drawer? What then?
Just do what I told you and meet me back here at midnight.
You get the money?
No. What's this?
Plan B. Here ya go, honey...
Trade for what?
The money. Fuck. I gotta think...
You get life for kidnapping.
Calm down, Bear...
Calm down? We're going away for life and you tell me to calm down?
Hell, why not just shoot her? Why not shoot everybody. Fuckin' shoot me. Shoot the fuckin' president?
Don't fade on me now, Bear. Not unless you wanna hold Farrah on your lap in a room fulla felons.
And that's for the airport.
Hey, he should have a weapon, a knife or something.
We'll get it later.
You keep hittin' him like that, he ain't gonna look like he broke in anymore, he gonna look like someone beat him up and then shot him.
You're right.
What is this?
An Oldsmobile Silhouette.
I reserved a Cadillac.
Yeah, well, this one's the Cadillac of minivans.
You're kidding me, right?
Hey, you want La Tierra RentACar just over there, but I think all they got are Rabbit convertibles.
The land here is best for grain and corn.
Though, sometimes we get frost and that can cut the season.
My daughter, I ask only...
This, this is life indeed! Life worth preserving, Such life as Juba never felt till now.
For God sake, get that horrid stuff off your face. You look like a damned slave! It's damned humiliating.
Juba was a Numidian.
He was not black! He was... tan! Weathered!
William, we've been studying hard, I really know my stuff.
Don't be silly, you have whole worlds to fathom.
You are a slave owner! You have been illegally surveying lands beyond the Ohio Valley! That land belongs to the natives!
That land belongs to the strongest.
All people have rights!
Just because they are born?
Yes!
Who says so?
I say!
I see...
And 'others', say... have you even read Locke, Vattel, Voltaire, Diderot...
Are these philosopher going to be here to help you fight your war? You know why I don't trust revolutions? Because each of us is who we are: we make speeches, print pamphlets, and we never change. The world is not a philosophical abstraction, Mister Adams, it's us. And, I don't believe you can ever change human nature.
You hear that?
That? I hear a mob: unemployed, drunkards, vagabonds... the world's dregs.
Well, I hear 'The People'. Indentured servants, freed slaves... escaped slaves. The world's castaways. And, my fear is, in the scramble for power that's coming, you will betray them.
Is that your test of patriotism, George; if a man will die for you?
God damn you, Sam Adams! You wanted a revolutionary army and now that we've really got one it scares you more than it does the British!
Where... do those men come from, George?
Africa, of course.
Africa? That's so far? How do they get here?
Slavers capture them and bring them here.
Capture them? Well, I've never seen anything like it, so... of course I'm curious.
Sally, our slave system is a British law...
The word 'minuet' finds its source in minitus, which is Latin meaning 'small' or 'orderly'.
Or, 'civilized'.
In the minuet, George, every movement is significant, like the strut of cranes...
Cranes? Who needs to walk like a crane?
That's just my interpretation. Actually it's a dance designed as a sentiment of courtly manners. You see? Walk in a gently 'Z'. There are four distinct movements...
What do you really think of the minuet, anyway?
It's stupid, of course.
Then why are you teaching me...?
Perhaps you best ask, why you wish it. You asked William to teach you manners, philosophy, decorum... as I said, it's completely stupid.
I always though London was the place to be: capital of the world, the most spectacular city on earth.
The place to want to be is America. Every English child dreams of it. I dreamt it.
I think America suits you.
Do you? When I saw those men yesterday in the field... and the women and children in those hovels? I'm not so sure if America is as far from England as I'd hoped.
It's the freest land on earth.
Is it? Well, I'm scared of what we've become in our freedom.
Well, we must be who we must be...
And to think I am teaching you to become one of them...
What else should I become? There's no difference between Virginia and England. I must be educated if I'm to take my place in society. My father couldn't afford to send me to England for school  he made a shambles of our fortunes. Everyone laughs at me.
I don't laugh at you, George. I like you. I like you because you will never, ever make it as an aristocrat... and that's because you're completely incompetent at hiding your feelings.
I think I will disappoint you.
What are you doing?
Let's get you darker!
You're out of your mind!
Why? Juba was an African and you want to look the part  hold still.
They can use their imaginations.
Those people? I doubt they'd think of this. Ooo, you're wonderful this color!
I've been surprised in an unguarded hour, But must not now go back; the love that lay, Half smothered in my breast, has broke through all, Its weak restraints, and burns in its full lustre. I cannot, if I would, conceal it from thee.
I'm lost in ecstasy! And dost thou love, Thou charming maid?
And dost thou live to ask it?
Remember, George, "It is dangerous to be right in matters on which the established authorities are wrong."
That's good... who?
Voltaire, of course...
So, you are William's wild young neighbor? Or should I say, 'brother'; William claims you as a member of his family. I have heard so many unflattering tales about you, and I understand, that except for you, this 'family' is quite cultivated.
George, I'm sorry.
Oh, but you must not mind my talking about you! In fact, William says my main job here at Belvoir is to civilize you; to make an honest English gentleman out of you.
That's not what I said! Now, Sally, you're embarrassing me! Watch out for her, George; she talks refinement, but she has a barbarous soul!
We can grow three primary crops in a season and, if we have some luck, we get a forth. The temperature is generally mild.
Except for that, quite like home; England, that is.
Hear that, George? Sally's actually taken to thinking of this clod of earth as her home. And it's her first tour. We're gratified, aren't we George?
Think what the play means, William. Perhaps these words have a place in the real world.
Words, words, words! Sally has been tutoring George in the philosophies, isn't that right?
Well, the widow Curtis will bring you riches, position, land, even halfgrown children. You won't have to do anything at all! You shan't have to do another thing to prove yourself.
You know very well who it is that I love.
Is that the truth? Well, we can't carry on like animals any longer.
George, you know I only love you, but...
But not more than your comfort.
And what is this, then? Been off to fight the French because you are a patriot? Or is this you, gaining your long sought after rise in society by becoming victorious in war!?
That's a lie!
Is it? William says now you have requested a British Commission, why not colonial? I'll clear it up for you, sir, because as a British officer you can lord over colonial yokels  more than that, it will even get you into polite society! Your dream come true, George, the only dream that really matters to you.
Perhaps you've been counting my acres, Mrs. Fairfax, and discovered exactly how poor I really am.
Now that is a lie! See how much you want to create a scandal in exchange for a glowing reputation and polite society laid at your feet! When you break off your engagement to Martha Curtis, I'll divorce William! Do you hear? You get what you want from this world, then throw it all away on love!
I'd throw everything away for you.
You remember, George, when we were 'studying' the great philosophers?
I remember a pair of young philosophers once, who laughed at the world.
Well, I remember a philosopher who said something that I used to think was just another of those stupid class denouncements... but which I now see means us all.
Really? Which precious homily was it?
"Mankind is born free, but everywhere he is in chains..."
We can't take them. Are you all right?
We're leaving them?
They're finished, they can't help us anymore! They've done their duty, General Greene, now you do yours!
Yessir!
Colonel Washington? Colonel Nathanael Greene, Rhode Island Militia.
Yes, yes, happy to meet you.
I... I'm possessed of the idea of a command in your army, sir.
It isn't my army yet, Colonel Greene. Looks like you've seen some action  did you hurt your leg, in a fight?
I was born with a limp, sir. The Militia used to hate it when I marches with them because my pike would always sway...
But, you do come from a military family?
I have commanded the Rhode Island Militia for a year now. My father is an ironmaster. As was I.
A horseshoer?
Yes, but I've spent the last winter studying all the great battles of history. And I read the lives of Caesar, Alexander, Hannibal... Sir, I'm volunteering you the wholehearted support of the Rhode Island army.
The only way to get discipline into these men is to beat it into them! Fifty lashes each!
Sir, Congress hasn't issued their pay for two months, many have not eaten properly for at least that long. You're being a little hard on them, don't you think?
Nathanael, someone bred to station, bred to being a gentleman  unlike these men  his sense of duty naturally prevails over the baser needs.
Well sir, I was an ironmaster before you got me. Maybe I will let you down yet.
I certainly didn't mean you. Of course you are a gentleman, an officer and a gentleman.
You wrong me, general; I am an officer and a horseshoer.
General Greene?
I'm with Captain Hamilton.
Yes, I thought that's how you'd feel, Nathanael.
They're just disgusting, jealous, bottomfeeding swine. It's their nature.
You have a free tongue, Captain Hamilton.
Sir, if you don't mind my saying, I don't understand your history at all. I mean, why would you want to win the war? You're not after glory, like Benedict... You're a slave owner, and yet you invite blacks to fight in your army.
You don't believe I can fight from a sense of duty and patriotism?
No. We're all of us after something. It's easy for me to fight for the common man. My father could only dream that I would be... a general someday? And what of my daughter or son? I know what I'm after. But now, with all this talk about compromise? It means the rich will just be more wealthy and the common man has no hope.
I will not betray you, Nathanael.
But you are an aristocrat and a slave owner. Sir.
At one time I could have chosen not to be.
Then, maybe I do see what you're after  perhaps... you get to chose again...
What the hell are we doing?
You've got to stop them here or our whole line will cavein! It's all right boys, I'm here!
Nathanael, I'm sending you to Virginia to head the southern army, to harass Cornwallis. Marquis, you must go with him.
I'm honored, but, reluctant to leave you.
Sir, I have to act on instructions from you ordering thirty copies of your own dress uniform...
They're for my bodyguard. I have an absolute conviction that Arnold is planning to have me assassinated! It will be harder if I am surrounded by a body of men who look like me, don't you think?
Yes sir, it's a wise idea...
Well, this must be about something!
It is; we need you George.
If the constitution is ratified... we'll have a country. They'll want to elect you president of the convention, which means president of the country.
You know, I came back to Mount Vernon to retire. I don't need to be in government.
It's another demonstration against the king. This is the wildest yet.
My God, these people mean to go to war! They really mean it.
Surely you knew this was coming.
War? No! I did not! When you said compromise was possible I believed it was probable. There's no middle ground at all? We're the King's children!
Our beloved father, the King, also refuses to bend.
But to go to war over trade, over money? Surely there's still time for a compromise.
Of course, if it were that simple. These people? They're after something else...
My God, what?
The eternal dream of the disenfranchised, my dear: a classless world. Not a very real expectation.
Well, a very real expectation is the British will hang you! They'll burn Mount Vernon and they'll hang you! Our marriage is a business just as surely as...
I'm very aware of that.
I can not allow the fortune in slaves my first husband created and what our partnership has elevated, to be destroyed...
Don't be ridiculous, of course that won't happen.
Have you been reading what Minister Jefferson has to say? If he had his way, all our slaves would be freed no matter what the outcome. And that would destroy us as surely as a British victory.
The day Tom Jefferson frees a slave I'll ride naked through the streets of Williamsburg on a mule. Tom Jefferson is one of those people who talks big and acts small. The only man out there who really does what he says is Sam Adams and everyone thinks he's crazy. Believe me, this 'disturbance' isn't going to last long. You have to understand, congress is a chicken coop full of foxes, Martha, each and every one has his eye on a nice, fat prize.
And, what 'prize' do you see? What could we possible gain?
Everything. If we force Britain into concessions it will open up the western lands  and that would be a boon for our family. We already have more slaves than we need, but we need more land.
But, as usual, it will not go well for... them. Martha, you must trust me.
You're no fool, George. You never have been.
"Liberty, Virtue, Country"... That's from Cato... you know, that play about the noble Romans? As I was riding up to Philadelphia, I found myself thinking about the old days...
When you lived with the Fairfaxes?
When I was a young man we used to recite Cato... We would come together recite it like they were words from heaven. Devotion to country, duty, purity of heart... Purity of heart. I was drunk on something then...
That's when Sally Fairfax was tutoring you...
That's right...
And have you heard anything from our dear friend, Sally? What with all the rumors getting back to England. I thought she might inquire after us. But then I believe she always looked down on us.
Did you know that Jefferson has proposed a law in Virginia aiming at an absolute separation of state from the church?
I think I heard that.
It's an antiChristian dogma! I cannot believe you are so calm about it!
What else? From Virginia?
Well, I wouldn't want to trouble you with this now.
Martha... what?
Virginia is outraged with your order allowing Negroes to fight in the army. There's a deep feeling of hurt and betrayal. They wanted you commander because they expected you would look out for our interests.
To win this war I need an army.
Oh, indeed? You know very well people are frightened of arming the Negroes! They beg you to consider the future. What good is a revolution if it overturns those things we cherish!?
What's the point of a revolution if it doesn't?
Some things must never change.
Is that why you come in here tossing pennies to my starving men? It's damned condescending!
Don't condescend to me! We have both of us prospered from the arrangements of our kind...
Our 'kind'? What is that supposed to mean? These men are all I have left and they stay because they will fight! They desire it! They seek it! Of course Virginia is terrified! For my soldiers this is a war to obliterate the 'upper class' from the face of the earth! Should I tell them all to go home because if they win it will ruin me!? It is impossible for me to imagine that Negroes are fighting so that only white men may be free! If we win this war they will own this country too!
Well, we must keep in mind the Dower Laws. One third of everything we have is mine and since our Negroes have been interbreeding, it would be legally impossible to distinguish them.
Martha! For God's sake!
Leave me, now sir, I am tired.
Come out and meet my soldiers. They're good people.
Not today.
I want you to see our hospital.
I don't want to see your hospital.
However, through my relations with members of his majesty's court, I am a representative of the French government whose deepest desire is to be one people, united with our American brothers in arms to defeat the rapacious armies of King George of England. Vive la France! Vive l'Amerique!
We have more officers created by Congress than we know what to do with.
But, general, I assure you my motives are sincere.
Sir, please accept my commission from Congress... and... You must see this portrait of my beautiful wife, Adrienne, we had the most perfect little baby girl just before I left. Her name is Henriette...
What I want to know is sir: where is your daddy?
Gentlemen, my I introduce a French gentleman, recently appointed major general by Congress... Marie Joseph Paul Yves Roch Gilbert du Motier, Marquis de Lafayette. General Lafayette has brought us the greetings and goodwill of his countrymen, and... how many cases of muskets, Mon petite Marquis?
Uh... none just now, but...
'Continentals', Congress' paper money. It was worthless to start with, but as you see, counter feiters have made them even less than worthless. Can you tell which one is fake?
I... they look both the same.
The one with 'Philadelphia' spelled correctly is the counterfeit.
No, please; an advance on your salary.
Mon General, I have come here to learn and to give, not to take. I am serving without salary.
You must be very rich.
I am. Then, I understand you too serve without salary. You know, since your charming little victories at Trenton and Princeton, the French court is softening. I expect any time now a ship load of supplies...
'Charming little victories?' Please don't expect much more of us, Monsieur.
I only meant...
These supplies...?
Muskets and uniforms and Bayonets.
And how rusty are these muskets?
Sir, these are our finest firearms from the armory at Charleville! They are a gift from the people of France!
Well, we will accept these charming little gifts. When we see them. Meanwhile, please, take your pick of a horse.
I rode here, on my horse.
Chose another. Any general worth anything should have a brace of horses.
Because, if the British got off their asses and came up here, now, we would be smashed. And the revolution would be finished. Tell King Louis, it's that bad.
Yes, I will write him and tell his ministers and the court.
Like flowers after the snow melts.
When the snow melts, mon petite Marquis, I suspect the only thing blossoming will be bright red British soldiers.
What is it, Marquis?
My baby daughter has died... my baby... mon petite Henriette...
My God! Who ordered this retreat?!
General Lee, sir!
Get these men back in line!
I feel the same, sir.
I will continue with our French allies, concentrating on New York.
Any word from Canada?
Spies from Quebec confirm that the British are sending an entire fleet down Lake Champlain...
A fleet?
My God... They mean to finish us. What about Arnold? He's up there.
What can he do? The British have massive superiority.
If we have any hope for a compromise or truce with England now, we have to hold on here: our men must believe they can win  the British must believe that somehow, in some mad, impossible way we might actually be able to hurt them.
I understand, George.
Colonel Reed...
George! So good to be back!
That damned Arnold is here, isn't he? Did you know he lost all his ships? Outrageous and completely unacceptable.
Joseph, the British spent thousands of pounds and precious months putting together a fleet that Arnold stopped by sacrificing a heap of old barges. In my opinion he saved my army.
Well, George, Congress just passed a resolution censuring Arnold for destruction of government property. I wouldn't cast my fate with that man.
A grand scheme?
A ground swellChristian movement, George, you see?
No. As a matter of fact I haven't the slightest idea what you're talking about.
To assert the rights of our founding fathers! This country was colonized by Christians! This shall become a Christian revolution. Surely as a good Christian you understand that!
What do you mean you're not a Christian? Of course you're a Christian, we're all Christians...
I mean, I'm a Deist. A belief I share with the likes of Tom Jefferson and Ben Franklin. Surely you knew that.
No, I did not. Really? Well, what the hell is a deist, precisely?
But the Hessians are there! No one can beat them! That's why Cornwallis stationed them there! They have the post of honor! They are invincible!
They are also very religious. So, we will attack them three days from now, on Christmas. One force under me, and another to the south under Colonel Cadwalader...
George, I'm afraid if you go through with this madness I must tender my resignation as your aide. I see where we're headed, you're putting your trust in the likes of Hamilton and Arnold...
How many generals do we have like Arnold? He's got guts  he's vain, and he fights!
And, Hamilton? Greene?
They help me understand why we fight.
Understand? You need to be listening to people like John Adams, and to keep the best interest of the country first in your mind!
Joseph, are you afraid to cross that river with me? I accept your resignation. With regret. You have leave to return to Philadelphia...
Gentlemen, let me get to the point, I can't see the wisdom of pursuing this old courtmartial against General Arnold.
The man is a traitor!
How can you say that?
Arnold is indispensable, do you understand? I need Arnold to help me win this war!
Well, I shall deny him to you! He is evil on earth!
Are you all going insane!? Benedict Arnold! The man who stopped the British on Lake Champlain! Who carried the day at Saratoga! Goddamnit, Joseph, you own two mansions, ride in an expensive, Tory coach! You are all nothing but a pack of greedy pigs!
I doubt Arnold will be afraid.
If he isn't, then he's stupid.
Did God ever make such a pitiful army?
These men have suffered but I believe they will fight.
No officer is going to get these men to fight! They had the life crushed out of them on Long Island. At the most, perhaps we could make a feint at an outpost, then retire to protect Congress.
I hear General Lee is holding seven thousand fresh infantry back in New York  why won't he come on!?
General Lee is detained captain...
Detained by what?
The British army, sir!
The British Army is right back there, across that river! Sir! I think it must be something else that detains General Lee.
Congress is bitterly opposed to allowing Negroes in the army!
We already have black soldiers in our army...
Unofficially, General Greene.
What's the difference?
Washington is perfect. He's a Southerner, he's a war hero and he's rich!
He's from Virginia  there is no more classist, elitist... English place on earth than Virginia. And, what in hell has he done for our cause? Washington has been preaching compromise, compromise, compromise! Hancock acts, he led the Boston Tea party! That's why New England loves him.
Hancock led the Boston 'tea party' because he's a goddamned tea smuggler! He wasn't protesting inequality, he was eliminating competition. Now, you listen to me: we need to get a Southerner elected commanderinchief, or the south will not fight! What have we been struggling for all these years? For this moment! And, if we fail now, remember: you stopped us!
Let's not over do it...
I tell you every damned place I go the man is adored! "General Washington! Champion of Trenton! Savior of the Republic!" And you should hear the way people are deprecating Congress!
Makes you gag.
Gag on your own invention, then.
Oh, come now...
You invented this, this...
You think that?
He has the soul of an aristocrat who'd like nothing more than to become a king in the minds of the people!
No one wants another failure right now, God knows. But people like Arnold and, God knows, I'm having my fears about General Washington.
Finally!? It's people like these who, as soon as they get a little power, want more and more. More ale, here!
Again, just to touch on a touchy subject, but... would the people accept another leader over Washington?
Partially...
It's the political 'cost of doing business', George.
Well, John Adams, your cousin has a marvelous gift.
Yes, an astonishing power over weak minds.
With your support, Horatio. As one of our own who has seen combat with the British, your opinion counts.
As does your ability, Horatio. We must talk further, when it's more convenient.
You won't be needing his largess, Rhode Island is already committed to your appointment.
I don't know: delivering men and delivering men with their goodwill are two different things. And, if he's popular with his men...
Colonel Charles Lee... Hounds and all. Quite the character. He's got a tremendous reputation.
I think many would like to see him commanderinchief.
If he supports the British why is it that every time he gets near them he kills so many of them? Unlike General Lee... who you and Congress backed for second in command and who is a goddamned incompetent!
Lafayette is a child!
Lafayette is my friend! He believes in glory and truth and the freedom of all mankind; so, of course he's a child. But he would have died before he would have let me down.
George, I'm sorry. We all know the army will acquit Arnold...
Of course the army will acquit him, that's not the point... Arnold is a man and will understand. What I need to understand is, John, Sam... what is happening here? Who are those people in there? The fat ones in silk?
They are... friends of Congress.
Is that where our meat and boots and uniforms and muskets went?
Horatio! Horatio Gates, of course you know John Adams of the Massachusetts Delegation.
Good day, Mister Adams... George, what's the word from Boston?
The last I heard, a bunch of drunken militia have dug in on Breed's hill. With one stroke the British could cut them off and apparently their leaders are too dumb to see it.
Who's in command out there?
Who the hell knows? Everyone's giving orders. It's all very democratic.
George, we've got to get you out there before we lose our whole army.
Captain Alexander Hamilton, sir!
Hamilton, you're going to have to cover our asses as we cross.
We've got powder but no ball!
Then use rocks!
How old are you, Captain?
I'll be twenty next year, sir.
I'll expect you for dinner this evening, Captain Hamilton. For Christ's sake, have a bath.
Delighted, sir.
Excuse me, General, but may I ask how do you feel?
No one wants to turn the table on the enemy more than I. But if victory is remote and there's any hope for a negotiated peace, we must keep this army intact.
Therefore, retreat.
I'm so inclined.
Well, sir, then is it possible you called us all here just to hear what you wanted to hear.
General Washington, is there actually going to be a compromise, I mean, a 'deal' with England?
And is that the most horrible thing in the world?
Captain, I want you to know that I respect your openness. It would make me happy if you'd join our table for dinner from now on.
With pleasure... and an honor. Did you hear about Nathan Hale?
That young school teacher... I heard the British hung him as a spy.
But it's what he said, just before they killed him: "I regret that I have but one life to give to my country."
They're among the best divisions the British have. No conscripts, no impressed recruits, just professional killers.
It's a wonder they find the British cause worth dying for.
I was a clerk's apprentice on Saint Croix. But, then I went to King's College.
To learn to shoot cannon?
Are you going to keep him, sir?
We better, Congress invented him.
It's impossible to stop these men deserting in winter, you might as well stop geese from migrating.
They go back home to keep their families alive, stay into the spring to plant. Then, they start coming back to us.
What are we going to do?
Get the body of our army up to Greene's vanguard as fast as we can. All the damned fool has to do is hit the British rearguard and then hold for us.
General Greene is here. There are two other divisions here.
Colonel Hamilton. Anyone who served under Arnold, I want them shipped north. I don't want any troops here who served under Arnold.
Yessir.
Did you know that Arnold left the entire defenses of this fort in complete disrepair? Most of our cannons are so neglected they may as well have been spiked!? You realize what would happen if this fort fell? The whole Hudson would be open to them!
Sir, I think no such thing.
Don't lie to me, Hamilton! If I had not courtmartialed Arnold...
Sir, Arnold is a traitor.
I must tell you sir you treat me with disrespect!
I am not conscious of it, sir! But since you have thought it necessary to tell me so, we part!
What is this?
Congress has informed the army that it is bankrupt and cannot pay the soldiers pensions.
This is a declaration of insurrection! Who wrote this!?
No one knows...
George, remember that night when we were drinking with Arnold?
To hell with Arnold...
He warned you some day you might have to act for the good of the people  even if it was against Congress. George, the time has come for you to declare yourself king of America. Listen to me, the whole army would rise up as one and place you on a throne! George, you must declare yourself with us or against us.
Is this a coup? Alexander, are you trying to tell me that I might be assassinated if I don't agree?
What's your advice, Alexander?
March on Philadelphia! Get Joseph Reed, and the pigs in Congress, the speculators, who've grown fat off the war! Get them all! Sweep them aside!
I want to address the officers, all the officers. Next Friday. Can we arrange it at the mess?
Yes, I believe so.
Well, if it's my last order, then I order them to be there! Tell them I will give them my decision then.
Have you decided if you are going to join the Virginia Delegation to the Constitutional Convention?
I'm not sure.
George, you're the only man the people trust... trust with power. They know you won't betray them.
But it's more than just that, am I right?
That's why the people trust you George. Without someone at the convention, who has the people behind him, everything will fail. Will you do it?
You're asking me to be president of a republic, not king? Not a dictator over subjects?
General Lee, welcome back. I'm happy you've decided to join us.
More than that, sir... my orders from Congress.
I am to take command of Major General Lafayette's division and lead the attack.
Lafayette will not be happy...
What the goddamned hell do you think you are doing!?
The British! These men cannot stand against them!
What do you know about these men!? They can stand against anything! They've seen more war than most field generals! They are not cowards, sir! They are not afraid!
Who is that!?
That's Greene. He's supporting our reconsolidation.
Marquis! Get these men reformed, send Steuben and Wayne out on the left...
No uniforms. No coats, even? In this weather?
No, my lord.
What sort of boots would you say he's wearing? I should say, no sort of boots at all. Aren't those rags wrapped around his feet? Is that what he marched here in?
Yes, my lord.
And, is that a pitchfork beside him?
Many of them, many did not possess proper arms. My lord.
Negroes? Washington has black men in his army? Are they good fighters? What's that red ribbon on his arm, Colonel?
Because they have hardly any uniforms, they designate officers with colored ribbons. My lord.
By red, what rank would you say this black, officer, soldier is, Colonel?
I, don't know what color is what officer, my lord...
Colonel, sir, Mrs. Washington inquires if you are going to join her for dinner?
Tell Mrs. Washington I am compelled to stay a while longer.
You, you just need a new flint, General.
You are never, never to touch my guns! Do you understand!?
Yes, General. But if you have to shoot somebody, you can't.
None of the servants is to touch a gun! You know that!
Well... I misunderstood, then.
Misunderstood what!?
A lot of years have gone by.
What? What are you talking about?
That you would have known you can trust me.
Me? You apologizing to me?
Yes, William. I am apologizing.
Wil...
Yes, general?
You've served me loyally, year after year, without complaining. I've thought hard about you this past winter. I want to free you, Wil. I want to give you your freedom, after this battle is fought.
Yes, general.
Wil, I'm giving you your freedom. Do you understand?
No. I guess.
You'd have money every year, so you wouldn't have to work. You can stay at Mount Vernon as long as you want...
Wil, I want to remind you of a conversation we started just before Monmouth...
I ain't forgot about the freedom.
Well, what have you thought?
Well, general, I think I ain't got no school learning, I ain't got no trade... and I'm a drunk. So, I think there ain't much left to be set free.
We've got to attack the British! Now! Have they put you in charge yet? Do we have an army yet? What is happening?
Patience, Colonel Arnold. Active personalities terrify these men. But, congratulations on your victory at Ticonderoga...
I capture Quebec leading an Army by river fordings through Maine... If we don't do it, the British will come down Champlain, take back Ticonderoga and attack us in the spring.
You'd have to travel hundreds of miles through the wilderness.
Over three hundred miles.
You seem pleased by the prospect.
Exceedingly. Besides, if I had half the wagons that were used to lug the rum to Philadelphia for this congress, I could move a whole army to the moon!
What's your frank estimation of the British?
Well, you fought with them against the French and Iroquois, how good were they then?
They died well. Otherwise, they didn't do much right. But if we have war, the British will surely send their best troops: right now they have no other enemies.
And a French alliance?
Ben Franklin's going to Paris, but I think the French will be long on talk and short on guns. Our troops are mobs, they won't take orders, have no equipment... could they beat the British?
It comes down to leaders. If our leaders are ordinary men who truly believe; if they go into the forests with the troops, eat what they eat, fight with them, perhaps to die? The most common soldier will defy your most depressing expectation.
Arnold!
I've come to report that we've had a bit of luck!
Damnit! You've given us a whole new season, Benedict! And Congress thinks that the British are going to ride right over us come spring. Now half their army is back in Canada.
Congress has picked up it's skirts and is racing for Baltimore. They're not waiting for spring! Of course, they still had time to deny my promotion. Even John Adams voted against it...
Why in hell would John do that? Why in hell would any of them do that? After all you've done, it's unbelievable!
Oh, they have reasons... there's a lot of confusion these days.
They don't trust me, that's the truth isn't it? Sam Adams never did.
But trust you to do what? One side in Congress wants compromise; another glorious battle; some surrender  some, of course, just want power and money. But if you don't mind my asking, George, what are your plans?
We're in bad shape, Benedict, moral is low. Before I can do anything, I need Lee and his seven thousand troops. I've ordered him to join us three times. In my last letter I all but begged him to come here. The man is insubordinate.
The man's waiting for you to get wiped off the stage so he can become commander and chief.
Go on... I want to hear everything.
Congress is talking  openly  about replacing you with Lee.
Is that a fact.
It is.
What do you think, George, shall I resign? It's what they want.
Don't do anything rash, please, Benedict.
The army needs you.
The army can survive without me.
Then, I need you. We all do. Without your victory the men would have no hope at all.
Someday, George, you may need to act for the good of the people no matter what Congress thinks that is. It may come down to us, or them someday. You or them. Cicero was right: was is 'a time when the laws are silent'.
I hope I never have to believe that.
Christ, George, Joseph Reed's been writing letters back to Congress attacking you. Your own aide!
After visiting Congress I know what it's like being violated by come disproportionate asses! Ah, if she only knew that the most important men in the country  possibly the world  are sitting at this table...
We're so damned important! Look at us  Nathanael, you were a horse shoer, Benedict, before this?
Well, truth be told? I was a pharmacist. Alexander?
Well, George, who were you?
I? You all know my history.
Our plan is to hit them as they leave.
While they're strung out?
Exactly. We'd attack the baggage wagons and the rear guard. It would cause the line to buckle. Then we hit the center with our main force and cut them in half.
They're ready. Believe me, the ones that stayed on here at Valley Forge are ready for anything. Of course, we get nothing from Congress. They need boots, coats... we desperately need food.
Same old story.
There was this anonymous pamphlet circulated at Congress which says I am personally responsible for all our hardships. And... that I have encouraged the people of America to make me into a God! Benedict, it says that I have gone mad!
That can't be.
There's this whispering campaign against me ever since Gates won at Saratoga.
Gates? He used my battle plan and I humbly submit that without me he'd still be back at Saratoga waiting for the British to attack. George, why haven't you moved into the Potts' house back at the creek? Much more befitting of a Commander and Chief than your field tent. And... you could entertain. I think you need to entertain more. Seriously! Get a few New Jersey whores up here, invite some Congressmen... couldn't hurt.
As soon as the men have good shelters I'll move. Perhaps Martha will join me this winter.
There, then, you can have sort of a normal life.
Have you heard? The British are negotiating to make a trade for General Lee.
I'm sure his dogs will be overjoyed.
The point being: he's also a candidate for my job. If we can pull this off, maybe I can restore their faith in me.
That scum Joseph Reed... they're calling him the 'King of Pennsylvania'. The man's a budding Cromwell. He condemns rich Tories to death and then 'appropriates' their property for himself. Naturally, the pig hates me for every Tory I've saved.
Couldn't you have appealed to Congress?
They love Reed and his inquisition! I think they hope to share in his disgusting profits! It's becoming the American way!
You go too far, Benedict.
These men were taken from their homes at night, tried by Reed's courts  which Congress recognizes  and, well, you can see.
Cut those men down. Congress is pushing ahead with your courtmartial. Benedict, trust me to handle this.
Some say that Hessians are invincible.
They always say that.
Well, now there's something worth dying for. What do you think?
Hmmm... she's beneath me, I'm afraid.
I wish she was beneath me.
Unfortunately, I'll never get the chance. I'm leaving in an hour for Congress to scream like a violated virgin about my promotion. Wasting my time, naturally... Look at her teasing those bumpkins.
What does she see in them?
I'm accused of using some government wagons to ship personal property.
Congress has been using our supply wagons for years to ship their black market goods  probably their whores!
Continue forward, sir?
Patience, Lt. . Patience.
Lieutenant Lathe, I confess I am beginning to feel a bit foolish myself. Chasing across the universe to obtain what is, I am now certain, a bauble of fiction. Tell me how best to obliterate this vessel? I would like nothing to remain.
The core could be hardwired to overload without much effort.
Find them.
But sir, my MEN. The core implosion is not reversible...
Find them.
enerao, I've host them. The maanetlsm o: the field Is disrupting our onstru ~ait. There they are
Get oacK on their tail.
WHAT? WH
Because they're coming right at us.
Fire at will. hI~D NT. PROTECTOR
You said we do appearances together, or not at all.'
I didn't say that. I said "wouldn't it be great if we could always, work together." That's what I said.
... to make sure craft service keeps those little butter cookies, and plenty of them
And determination.
That's right... Just keep shaking it out... Here, have some gum, It helps.
Wh... Where are we?
Twenty third quadrant of gamma sector. I can show you on a map.
What's going on?
I think we're going to exit the space port.
Excuse me?
They designed the ship from watching you. So... Take her out, Lieutenant...
Well, it's... This was a device we... discovered on an alien planet. We don't know what it does either.
Why don't you just turn it on and see?
Where?
Just GO! GO! DAMMIT PUNCH GO!
Faster Tommy. Get us out of here!
It's as far as it goes!
Could be this.
Push It. Hold it down.
Do your best, Tommy...
Oh god...
All right, Gwen, Alex, Fred, follow me. Guy, set up the perimeter. Tommy, you keep a lookout, make a signal if they come back.
What kind of signal?
Anything.
Okay, I'll do this... "Caw Caw!"
Tommy, we have these...
Oh, right, sorry.
Okay, let's go.
Sorry Guys... It just went off.
Good work, Tommy. Let's go!
Okay... On what?
How about the piglizard?
Hey I was doing okay with the pig lizard.
Go for the eyes. Like in episode 22 with
It doesn't have eyes.
The throat, the mouth... Its vulnerable spots.
It's a ROCK. It doesn't HAVE vulnerable spots!
NO NO NO.
We've got to get out of here. C'mon, hurry
All right guys... Uh... Gwen and I are going to have to get to the core and shut it down manually. Fred, you and Guy need to get that air valve back on. Alex, see if you can get the prison doors open downstairs in case Fred and Guy can't get the oxygen back in time.
Jason? What about me? What do I do?
Practice driving, Tommy.
Pedal to the metal Tommy...
Pedal to the metal...
Let's do it, Tommy.
Commander?... Call me Laredo?
Mark 20 Into the black hole, areao.
Hold course, Laredo!
I'm trying Commander... Everything's a blur, but as long as I stay locked to that vox signal...
Commander, I must speak to you. It is a matter of supreme importance... We are Thermians from the Klatu Nebula, and we require your help. I beseech you to come with us, back to our ship. A great many lives hang in the balance...
Right, If this is about the thing tomorrow you can hammer out the details with my agent, but make sure I have a limo from my house, they jammed me into a Toyota the last time I did one of these
I... certainly, but
Catch me later, okay?
Sir, I understand this is a terrible breach of protocol, but please, I beg you to hear our plea. We are Thermians from the Klatu Nebula. Our people are being systematically hunted and slaughtered by Roth'h'ar Sarris of FatuKrey. Sarris wants the Omega 13. We are to meet in negotiation. However our past efforts in this regard have been nothing short of disastrous. The flames, the death... Please Captain, you are our last hope. We have secured a limousine.
Oh, right! The thing with the thing. Come on in, I'll get some pants on.
Commander... Welcome to the Protector II. Would you like to don your uniform?
Mind If we skip that? I have to get back pretty quick for this thing in Van Nuys.
As you wish.
Commander?... Where are you... going?
Home.
You... You mean Earth?
Yeah. "Earth." Time to get back to "Earth," kids.
But Commander... The negotiation... You... You... You fired on him.
Right. Long live... What's your planet?
Theramin.
Long live Theramini. Take a left here?
But what if Sarris survives?
Oh, I don't think so. I gave him both barrels.
He has a very powerful ship. Perhaps you would like to wait to see the results of
I would but I am REALLY running late and the 134's a parking lot after 2:00. But listen, the guy gives you any more trouble, just give a call...
An interstellar vox.
Thanks
How can we thank you, Commander. You You have saved our people.
It was a lot of fun. You kids are great.
Weapons storage...
It's perfectly safe. I promise.
... Maintenance facility...
To our brave guests. Few in this universe have the opportunity to meet their heroes. We are blessed to count ourselves among them.
Wherever a distress signal sounds among the stars, we'll be there, this fine ship, this fine crew. Never give up, never surrender!
Mathesar?. .. Has Sarris seen the.. historical records?
NO, Thank God he has not.
Then how did he find out about the device?
Our former Commander was not... Strong.
Former Commander?
I'm sorry. You deserve to be shown.
Commander...
Mathesar, I need you to prepare pods for my crew.
Mathesar? What is that?
It's the Tothian mine field left standing from the Great War of 12185.
A thousand apologies. We have failed you.
You what?.. What are you talking about?
We have seen you victorious in many more desperate situations. The fault must lie with us, with the ship...
"Deception..." "Lies."
Well... Sort of...
We have become aware of these concepts only recently. In our dealings with Sarris. Often Sarris will say one thing, and do another. Promise us mercy and deliver destruction... It is a concept we are beginning to learn at some great cost. But if you are saying that any of you could have traits in common with Sarris.
I'm not a Commander, there is no National Space Exploration Administration. There is no snip.
But there it is!...
A model, only as big as this.
But... Inside, I have seen
Sections of rooms made of plywood. Our Beryllium Sphere was painted wire and plaster. The digital conveyor was Christmas lights... Decorations. It's all a fake. I'm not him... I'm a nothing. A nobody.
But...Why?
It's difficult to... On our planet we pretend in order to... entertain.
The ship is a model... As big as this!... A very clever deception indeed! He oan't oontaln hIs lauchter. A belleTOMMY Set a course for home, lommander?
You can oc that?
First, I require the Omega 13... Second
Okey dokey, let's fire blue particle cannons full. Fire red particle cannons full. Fire gannet magnets left and right. Fire pulse catapults from all chutes. And throw this thing at him too, killer.
Yes... Hi Sarris... How are you doing?
Better than my Lieutenant. He failed to activate ship's neutron armor as quickly as I'd hoped on our last encounter.
Right. Well... Listen, I'm I'm sorry about that whole... thing.. before. It was kind of a misunderstanding. I'm sure we can work this out like reasonable people... How's the uh... ... that going to heal up? God, I hope so, I feel just awful about that.
Deliver the device now or I will destroy your ship.
Listen, I'd like to, but frankly.. I'm not even sure where it is, or even...
You have ten seconds.
All right. You got it. You win. I'll deliver it now. Just give me a moment to set it up.
Yes.
Then tell me one thing... What does it do, the device? The Omega 13.
I don't know.
Is it a bomb? A booby trap? Tell me!
Stop, please! I don't know!
Prepare a tear harness for the female...
No! I swear I don't know! Please!
Do you think I'm a fool? That the Commander does not know every bolt, every weld of his ship?
Wait. What did you say?
Please, don't hurt them, it's not their fault. I'm not the Commander, I don't know anything.
Explain 
Gwen. The show. There's no choice. Do it.
My name is Jason Nesmith. I'm an actor. We're all actors.
Our dimwitted friends don't understand the concept of acting. They have no theater, no imagination these scientists.
We pretend...
Simpler.
We.. We lie.
Yes... You understand THAT, don't you, Mathesar?...
Accelerate to Mark 4, Tommy.
This is embarrassing, really. I shan't tell this story when I return home.
Where the hell is he? An hour and a half late. An hour and a half!
This is great! They're going to start eating each other out there.
You're kidding. When for?
Tomorrow morning, before the store opening.
Unbelievable.
You are so full of shit
You gotta admit, they do love him.
Almost as much as he loves himself.
That's it, It's go time.
Don't do it, Tommy. He's not worth it.
You should have let me hit him.
I don't know guys... I mean, he almost looked... sincere. I know, it's bizarre!
You know, that's really getting annoying.
I have ONE job on this lousy ship. It's stupid, but I'm going to DO it. GOT IT?
Sure, no problem.
Oh my god! Tommy! Stop the pod! Stop the pod!
I can't... It's on autopilot!...
We got the Sphere but the Commander's down there with a bunch of cannibals! Teb, reset the pod, we're going back.
That thing's not going to get us down there fast enough. Face it, he's dead.
Wait, Fred, what about your thing, you know... "Digitize me, Sergeant Chen!"
I heard it too.
Is this really the most important thing we could be talking about right now?
JASON You think you couldget any closer to those mines?
Closer? I can try.
What are you doing? What are thev doino? ~7C INT. SARRIS' SHIP h37C
Tommy, look! Those lights...
I see them! I see them! RD STREET PASADENA 57
A few fans built a little set in their garage. . I come in for an hour at most. It's a nothing.
How much of a nothing? Not enough to split five ways kind of a nothing?
What do you want me to say, Gwen?... They wanted the Commander.
What?
You smiled at me.
This isn't mine. Wait, where is that kid?...
You know it's one thing to treat us this way, but how can you do this to your fans?...
It's Jason...
One minute I'm  Hey, I'm dressing.'
Oh come on, it's not like I haven't
Let me try. Computer? Computer?...
Only answers to me.
But I'm the Commander!
On the show I talk to the computer and repeat what it says. So that's what they built.
C'mon, we're wanted up on the command deck.
Wait. When are you going to tell them?
Tell them? About...
Who we are. Don't you think they're going to be PISSED?
Are you kidding? I'm not going to tell them.
Well you have to tell them. What if something happens? We're actors, not astronauts... We can't do this stuff!
It's not the STUFF. I mean, anybody can learn the STUFF... The important thing is COMMITMNT. 99% of anything is just committing to it.
Nintynine percent of ACTING is commitment. ACTING. Stella Adler never manned a resonance cannon, she taught ACTING...
Hey... Hey where are you going?
We have no right to do this. They deserve to know.
Gwen... Gwen, c'mon, wait, no!
We're leaving, Jason. We're leaving NOW.
Let me think. I need time to think.
There's nobody here. Jason...
Mathesar, maybe we should get some of your crew up here.
All right, now nobody panic, I've dealt with this guy before and believe me, he's as stupid as he is ugly.
Jason..
We're going to fire everything we've got at him, all right?
JASON...
You just keep pushing those buttons, those there, send everything at him, okay?
I made the CUT THE LINE gesture. You nodded okay.'
I thought It was the "We're dead" gesture! I was agreeing! Like I know where the hold button is???
Listen, Sarris, you can't blame me for trying...
Maybe we can lose them in that cloud.
I don't think that's a cloud...
Are they behind us?
No, I don't think so... Wait. They're not but... Something is. Oh my god.
Can it be repaired?
Computer, can it be repaired?
Do we have a replacement Beryllium sphere onboard?
Computer, do we have a replacement Beryllium sphere onboard?
Self control? That's funny coming from the guy that slept with every Moon Princess and Terrakian slave girl on the show!...
Did it ever occur to you that if you had been a little more supportive you could have held on to me?
I could have held on to YOU! ...
You're playing your good side.
Don't be ridiculous.
All right... here's the plan: First, Fred, we need a diversion to clear those things out of the compound, then Gwen, Alex, Fred and I go down to get the sphere. Any of those things come back, give a signal. Guy, you set up a perimeter.
Why does this sound so familiar?
How does the rolling help, actually?
It helps.
Clenched jaw...
Will you stop RIDING ME?!
Jason.. Can you hear me?
Yes. Yes, I'm here!
Thank God. Are you okay?
Yeah. But I've got Gorignak staring me in the face. I think I can take it though...
Jason, we're going to use the digital conveyer to get you out of there.
What? What did he say?
Nothing. Hold please.
Wait, the pig lizard is gone. Why are they still chanting for the pig lizard?
Turn on the translation circuit.
Jason?... I don't think the pig lizard was Gorignak...
What the hell are you talking about?
So... We get to shut down the neutron reactor?
Right.
Uh... I hate to break it to you Jason, but I don't know how to shut down a neutron reactor, and unless you took a Learning Annex course I don't know about, I'm pretty sure you don't know how to shut down a neutron reactor either.
No I don't. But I know somebody who does.
There's no hatch. There's no hatch!
Wait... Jason, Here!...
What IS that thing? It serves no useful purpose to have a bunch of CHOPPY CRUSHY things in the middle of a CATWALK!?.'
Gwen...
We shouldn't have to DO this! It makes NO LOGICAL SENSE! Why is it HERE?
Because it was on the show!
Well forget it! I'm not going. This episode was badly written!
He's accelerating to Mark 6.
Mark 12.
never doubted you for a second.
TOMMY, 270 DEGREE TURN TO PORT!
Hi everybody.
Hey. Thanks for one nice intro... uh.
Guy... You probably don't remember me do you? I was on the show in '82. Episode 31? Got killed by the lava monster before the first commercial? "Crewman #6?"
More to the left... Stay parallel...
Hey, YOU want to drive?
"Assault on Voltareck III." Episode... 31 I think.
We're doing episode 31?
Whatever, the one with the hologram. The wall of fire.
They're gone.
Where'd they go? Back inside?
You have no idea what a perimeter is, do you?
Not a clue. You?
I think he just likes pointing at things.
We're alive!
We made It. Commander, we made it.' m ALEXANDER sort ov) By Grabtnar' s h~mmer, we ove to te ono 'tale.
~e're alive!
We made it. Commander, we made it.'
...Okay
All right. Put me back on with him.
They're still behind us...
We should have a turbo. I'm always saying "activate turbo boosters", right?...
Guy, you're not going to get killed on the planet, okay?
Oh, I'm not? I'm not? Then what's my last name?
Your last name.
Yeah, what is it?
It's... I don't know.
No. Nobody does. Do you know WHY? Because my character Isn't IMPORTANT enough for a last name. Because I'm going to DIE five minutes in, why bother to come up with a last name for me?
We're screwed... We're so screwed...
All right, let's all settle down. If we're going to get through this we're going to have to exercise self control.
That's it, that's what's going to kill me.
Let's just pick up the pace a little, shall we?
It doesn't have to be a hologram... Just a diversion.
Jason, are we doing Episode 31 or not?
It's a rough plan, Guy! What does it matter if we're doing episode 31 or not?!
BECAUSE I DIED IN EPISODE 31!
I know... You contruct a weapon. Look around, can you form some sort of rudimentary lathe?...
A LATHE??? Get off the line, Guy.'
We~re oetting hammered, Jason. Return fIre?
No. Keep all energy to the armor.
Listen, I was wondering, would you guys mind if I sit in today? See if anybody's interested in an autograph? Never know.
Sure, Guy, If you can stand the excitement.
"Crewman #6"... Call me Guy.
You... know us?
THAT'S why you built this ship?
It's ... incredible.
The Omega 13... Why does that sound so familiar?...
The lost footage. At the convention. The mysterious device in our last episohistorical document.
Guy, you HAVE a last name. We just don't KNOW it.
Do I? DO I? For all you know I'm just "CREWMAN #6"! Okay, it's FLEEGMAN! Guy FLEEGMAN! There! Now I'm a whole person! I can't die! FLEEGMAN! THEY CAN'T KILL ME NOW, CAN THEY? CAN THEY?
Where are the miners?
Something BAD happened here.
Oh, they're so cute.
Of course they're cute NOW. But in a second they're going to turn MEAN and UGLY somehow and then there are going to be a million MORE of them!...
I am SO SICK of being right.
Let's get out of here before one of those things kills guy.
How the hell is Fred supposed to project a hologram?
We're doing episode 31, Jason?
How do you remember this stuff?
Oh I make it up. Use lots of "k"s and "v"s.
You Okay, Alex?
I don't like this... I don't like this at all...
...The digital conveyor.
Of course... We'll just zap him up with the digital conveyor!
We've got to get that valve turned off. Their oxygen Is almost gone...
Listen, I'll go in, create a distraction. have this... may be able to hold them back long enough for the aliens to escape.
It's suicide.
I'm just a glorified extra, Fred. I'm a dead man anyway. If I'm going to die, I'd rather go out a hero than a coward.
Maybe you're the plucky comic relief, you ever think of that?
Hey Commander. Listen, we found some Beryllium on a nearby planet. We might be able to get there if we reconfigure the solar matrix in parallel for endothermic propulsion. What do you think?
I...Well, uh... Yes, absolutely.
A hologram...
Never mind, Fred....
No, no... I'll think on it...
The digital conveyer? You mean I'm going to get diced into cubes and sorted up there in a thousand pieces?
Right.
I'll take my chances with Gorignak.
No, I'll kill you. .
Listen Fred. You did this for four years on the show. You can do it now... Put your hands on the controls..
Fred, I worked summer stock with Hopkins. Regional theater with Hoffman. But I swear to God I have never met an actor who could hit his mark, or nail his lines with the professional consistency of a Freddy Kwan. You're Mr. Dependable... You can do this.
You worked with Hopkins? I worship Hopkins.
As good as Hopkins?
Hopkins can't drink your bathwater Fred.
U.... What do you think?
That possibly... The valence bonds have shifted bilaterally?
... What does that mean?
What does that mean?!!! Yes, I see! Yes... It means that perhaps... the... bonding molecules have become covalent?!...
Covalent... Right. So...
So our solution is to introduce a bonding substrate!  A two molecule compound sharing a free electron  and bombard the ions with their reflective isotopes!
OK!
Structural damage at 68 percent.
We're getting major structural damage.
I just can't believe it. Any of it! Look at this room!.. They designed it based on the Tuaran Pleasure ship from "historical document" thirty seven. Oh and wait, wait, listen to this! Computer?
Yes?
What's the weather like outside?
There is no weather in space.
I never get tired of that joke.
The ship is sustaining structural damage.
Guys, we're sustaining structural damage!...
The enemy is matching velocity.
The enemy is matching velocity.
Computer, what about our engines? Why don't we have power?
The Beryllium Sphere has fractured under stress.
It's fractured...
Negative. The Beryllium sphere will have to be replaced.
We need another one.
Negative, no reserve Beryllium sphere exists onboard.
No, we don't have an extra Beryllium sphere.
Systems register functional.
All systems are working, Commander.
Systems register functional.
All systems are working, Commander. ,~ cc PINK) ' C 
Commander, please settle a dispute that my crew and I are having. In "The Quasar Dilemma", the Sentient had taken control of the ship's guidance systems, however
Excuse me guys.
Commander, as I was saying... In "The Quasar Dilemma", you used the auxiliary of deck b for Gamma override. But online blueprints indicate deck b is independent of the guidance matrix, so we were wondering where the error lies?
It's a television show. Okay? That's all. It's just a bunch of fake sets, and wooden props, do you understand?
Yes but, we were wondering
There IS no quantum flux and there Is no auxiliary... There's no goddamn ship Do you get it?
... Yes?
We accidently traded Vox units when we bumped into each other on Saturday.
Oh... Oh, I see. Oh.
What's your name, son?
Brandon.
Brandon, I remember you from the convention, right?... You had a lot of little technical observations about the ship, and I spoke sharply to you...
Yes, I know, and I want you to know I thought about what you said... I know you meant it constructively but...
It's okay. Listen
... But I want you to know that I am not a complete braincase, okay? I understand completely that It's just a TV show. There is no ship, there is no Beryllium Sphere, no diagital conveyor... I mean, obviously it's all just a
It's real, Brandon. All of it, It's real.
I knew it!... I KNEW it!...
Brandon.. . The crew and I are in trouble and we need your help.
Okay, we got it.
Okay, you can go on in... I'm going to get Kyle. He knows the utility tunnel system better than anybody alive.
Okay, now left at the next turn... Past the oxygen units. Make a right there. Then go through the antimatter vent...
Okay... Okay, now what.
Now make a right, you'll see a doorway that opens on the central manufacturing facility. The bowels of the ship.
Commander, do you have a camera? I'd die to see this in person... All they showed on T,V was a machine here, and a wall here... I don't know why they didn't show the whole thing.
We'd never have the budget for this.
Okay, so do you see a door marked "CORE UNIT?" Should be down at the far end to your left.
Yes...?
Okay, that's where you want to be.
Brandon.. Just in case I die, there's something I have to know...
Yes Commander?
What does the Omega 13 do?
Well, that's the big question, isn't it?
What do you mean?
It's been the subject of an extremely heated debate on the internet for years. Many believe that is a matter collapser, a bomb capable of destroying all matter in the universe in a chain reaction lasting 13 seconds.
But you don't?
No, I am of the firm belief that in reality it is not a matter killer, but a matter REARRANGER, converting all molecules to the exact state they existed thirteen seconds previous to activation thus effecting a thirteen second time jump to the past.
How did you come to that conclusion?
My cousin's boyfriend's sister went out with the screenwriter. His favorite movie is the Omegaman. He's seen it 13 times...
BRANDON! TIME TO GO!
Yes Commander... All right, you're almost there. Just go through the chompers and over the pit.
Commander, you and Lt. Madison will have to go through the crushers one at a time in three second intervals. Tell me when the first crusher hits the bottom...
Okay, now. But
Wait two seconds then go.
No, wait, are you
Lt. Madison, GO.
Shit! Go!
GO Commander.
Go. They're off again.
Up.
What? Up?
Berithium lava coming through. Use the handholds above you.
I'm at the control oaneh. What do I do?
Raise the glass and push the blue button.
That's It?
Yeah. What's wrong? JASON ~~othIno. I ust oncuont ot wou~o oc oomooooateo onan onat.
He dissed us AGAIN, Brandon!
He probably... Has some very important business to attend to...
Hi Brandon.
No time for pleasantries, Kyle. We have a level five emergency. The Commander needs us to get him to the core and shut it down before it overloads.
Oh. Okay.
You've got the utility systems walkthrough, right?
I have sectors 128. I think Hector has the upper levels.
We'd better get everybody online. And Kyle, Stop downloading porn. Your frame rate is unacceptable.
He's a miserable twit!
The guy is terminally selfish!
Oh Alex, get away from that thing...
Dear God.... How did I come to this?
Alex you can't just leave.
Oh can't I? Watch me!
Oh good, there's nothing to eat.
Why didn't you stop at the market?
I still haven't got this bloody thing off.
You could order something in.
A boy comes to the door.
I don't know... It just wasn't like him.
Yes, poor Jason. As we speak he's probably out somewhere talking rubbish to a roomful of hangerson. While here I sit eating Christmas cheese in Spring.
Oh my god, It's real.
All this from watching the.. historical records?
We heard it the first time!
Shit! I'm doing it! I'm repeating the damn computer!
May I get the check?
The ships are gaining...
WE'VE HAVE TO STOP!
FRONT ARMOR IS GONE! JUST SLOW IT DOWN A LITTLE!
"Go into the cloud! ...
Alex? Where are you going?
To see if there's a pub.
Look at that... Will you LOOK at that... They look like little children...
Could they be the miners?
I don't know.
Nobody was WATCHING?
Those blue things ate everybody here?
It doesn't make sense... Surely they could have fortified the compound against those creatures...
He knocked me out the sonofabitch. Where is he?
Down there.
You said "the Commander.
What?
Back there. You said "the Commander is down there with a bunch of cannibals."
No I didn't.
Yes you did.
He always has to make the big entrance.
By Grabthar's Hammer, this is true. 159 NT. LIVING ROOM  SOMEWHERE  NIGHT 159
He's a twit!
Oh, and did you hear he booked another fan appearance without us?
Not again...
I played Richard III...
Settle down, Alex...
No. I can't go out there! I won't say that ridiculous catch phrase one more time. I won't. I can't!
What the hell is going on?!!?
Jason, what have you gotten us into?
He wants to THINK!?
No, Jason, that's a wrap! There's nothing to think about!
Could you possibly try not to hit every single one!
They're drifting toward me... I think they're magnetic!...
What's happened?
The engines are dead. We're drifting.
You were holding it upside down weren't you?
Shut up.
You know, with the makeup and everything1 I actually thought he was smart for a second.
You think you could do better "Laredo?"
Hey, watch that "Laredo" shit.
And note the sucked in gut.
...Sleeves rolled halfway up the biceps...
This is ludicrous. Why are you listening to this man? Must I remind you that he is wearing a costume, not a uniform?... He's no more equipped to lead us than THIS fellow. No offense.
You have a better plan, Alex?
As a matter of fact, I do. Look at their eyes. They're obviously nocturnal. Come sundown they will go into the forest to hunt. So our plan is simply to wait for nightfall instead of mounting an insane assault in full daylight simply because we did it that way in episode 31.'
Come on, old friend...
Friend. You stole all my best lines. You cut me out of episode two entirely!..
You WILL go out there.
I won't and nothing you say
"The show must go on."
...Damn you! Damn you!
I'm glad you asked... To me the most important qualities of a Galaxy Explorer are loyalty...
... to camera center no matter whose shot you're blocking...
Leadership....
God, what an ass.
COME IN PROTECTOR... PROTECTOR...
Calm down everybody. We're just here to negotiate General Sarris' surrender.
"Just!?"
At ease men.
Like throwing gasoline on a fire...
We've got to stop!
We stop we die. Keep holding the thruster down Tommy!
You don't hold a thruster down! It's for quick boosts
Like YOU know?
NO! WE'RE ALMOST THROUGH!
DON'T BE INSANE, STOP! FULL STOP!
KEEP GOING! KEEP GOING!
About this much.
What's the scale? Is that ten miles? A hundred miles?
THIS much.
There it is. The Beryllium sphere.
Must be some sort of mining facility.
Go ahead!
You go first! There's no time!
Oh, of course, I forgot! YOU have to be the hero, don't you?... Heaven forbid anyone else get the spotlight once! Oh no, Jason Nesmith couldn't possibly
What? What?
Nothing.
I heard something. A squeal.
Fred's no good, Jason. You're going to have to kill it
KILL IT? Well I'm open to ideas!...
ALEXANDER??? PLEASE? You're my advisor, advise me!
... . Well you have to figure out what it wants... What's its motivation?
It's a DAMN ROCK MONSTER!!! It doesn't HAVE motivation!
That's your problem. You were never serious about the caraft... "I'm a rock... I just want to be a rock... Still. Peaceful.. Tranquil.." ..."Oh, but what's this? Something's making noise... No, not noise, no... MOVEMENT. VIBRATIONS. Make the vibrations stop, they go straight into me like a knife!... I must CRUSH the thing that makes the vibrations..."
Am I crazy, or do you actually have something there?
Hundreds dead, all so you could play at being the Commander.' You've murdered us all you egomaniacal sonofabitch!
Shut up.' Just shut up you purple skinned monstronsity,
"Purple skinned monstrosity...?"
I was staying in character. "Egomaniacal sonofabitch?"
Sense memory. I see you got to win the fight...
I had the shot...
~hex! Alex, are you oKav?
Yes. Good was done this .....
Okay... Let's go, buddy, they can take It from here... I'mo
Jason, before we entered the black hole, my instruments detected strange energy surge from Sarris' shiD~ similar to...
No time to worry about that, Alex. Tommy, let's get this thing slowed down... Gwen, see if you can calculate the impact point. Guy, cet down to deck C and make sure tne injured are secured. Also lets
Dr. Lazarus... I hope that I'm not breaching protocol but.. I am so very humbled to stand in your presence... I have studied your missions extensively... Though I am Thermian, I have lived my life by your philosophy, by the code of the Mak'tar.
Well good, that's very... nice.
By Grabthar's Hammer, Dr. Lazarus, I
Don't do that. I'm not kidding.
I'm sorry, sir, I was only
Just don't.
...Yes sir. Your quarters sir.
This is it?
Yes sir. Marvelous, isn't it? Completely distractionless.
Where's my bed?
Just as on your home planet, sir. If I may say, it took me three years to master the spikes, but now I sleep with a peace I never thought possible...
Is that the bathroom?
Yes sir... The use of your waste facilities were strangely absent from the historical records, so we had to extrapolate purely on the basis of your anatomy.
Dr. Lazarus, here is your surface mapper. I have programed it to the coordinates of a Beryllium Sphere of sufficient density.
Thanks.
Good luck on your mission, Sir. By Grabthar's Hammer, by the Suns of Warvan I wish you
Uh uh! What did we talk about?
Right... Sorry, sir.
Sir, it's you Thank Ipthar!
Quellek. What are you doing in there?
I avoided capture using the Mak'tar stealth haze. Where is everyone?
Come with me. I'll explain on the way.
Sir! The pressure. It's normalizing.
Open.
Okay, Quellek, let's get back to the command deck andSuddenly we hear a PISTOL BLAST and Quellek's chest turns RED. Alexander and Quellek look down at the blood, horrified.
I'm... I'm shot.
Not so bad. We'll get you to medical quarters. You're going to be fine.
I... I don't think I'm going to make it Sir...
No, don't talk like that, son. We're going to get you fixed up.
... It has been my greatest honor to serve with you. LIving by your example these years, my life has had meaning. I have been blessed. Sir, I... I...
Don't speak, Quellek.
You'll forgive my impertinence, sir, but even though we had never before met, always considered you as a father to me.
Are you looking for this?
Thanks.
Do I know you?
We've met before.
Oh yeah, the insurance guy.
SDECE, Service de Documentation Exterieure et de ContreEspionnage. Agent Phillip Raymond.
Sounds like a big company.
It's the French Secret Service.
Oh.
We have learned that your American friends have decided not to look for the creature's nest.
Are you sure? How do you know?
We know.
Why are you telling this to me?
I need you to trust me.
Why do you need that?
I need your trust if you're to help me find the nest.
Oh, my bags. I've checked them in.
We, have already taken care of them.
How did you get all of this stuff into the country?
This is America. There is nothing you can not buy.
So why all the secrecy? Why aren't you guys working with the US military?
I am not permitted to speak of such things.
I am a patriot. I love my country. Can you understand that?
Sure.
It is my job to protect my country. Sometimes I must even protect it from itself. From mistakes we have made. Mistakes that we do not want the world to know about.
Your talking about the nuclear testing in the Pacific.
Yes. This testing done by my country left a terrible mess. We are here to clean it up.
Here. 23rd street subway station. Where we first found the fish. With a little luck, this will lead us right to it.
So you're in?
Are you kidding? I always wanted to join the French Foreign Legion.
What's with the chewing gum?
Makes us look more American.
They've turned off the ventilation system. They're calling him to dinner.
Let's hope we are not the hors d'oeuvres.
Three eggs. I thought there would be more.
You were right.
I think we should leave now.
Good idea.
Contact the military and get them to send a bomber to blow up this building before these things escape.
How do I do that?
5557600. Tell them it's a code dragonfly. They should get you through.
What'd they say?
I can't get through. I don't know what's wrong.
Who the hell are you?
It's okay. I know her.
Hello?
It's Raymond.
Where are you?
I understand.
I just wanted to say, au revoir and thank you for your help, my friend.
Wait. Au revoir.
We think there's a strong reason to believe it may be hiding inside one of the buildings within the sequestered area.
But you don't know for sure!
General Anderson, the problem was the terrain. If we lure him out into a more open area such as this portion of Central Park... We should be able to take him down.
Last time you didn't even scratch it!
That's not true. Our worm guy, er, I mean, Dr. Tatopoulos found blood.
Do you have any idea what's going on out there? The phones are ringing off the hook with people screaming to be let back into the city.
We're sending divers into the river now to retrieve the body.
That thing's dead. What the hell are we waiting for?
Organize a search party. I want a complete sweep of the entire city and subway system.
You don't have the authority to do that.
Dr. Niko Topopolosis?
It's Tatopoulos.
Right. The worm guy. Can someone get those people off the beach?
Excuse me, would you mind telling me what the hell I'm doing here?
Follow me.
You didn't answer my question. In fact, for the last 18 hours no one has answered any of my questions.
We have a situation on our hands that requires your particular expertise.
Look, I may work for the Nuclear Regulatory Commission but accidents and spills are not my field.
We know.
Do you know that you just interrupted a three year study of the Chernobyl earthworm?
Yeah, you're the worm guy.
The radioactive contamination in that area altered the earthworm's DNA! You have any idea what that means?
No, but I have the feeling I'm about to find out.
It means that due to a man made accident the Chernobyl earthworms are now over seventeen percent larger than they were before. Mutated by seventeen percent?
Seventeen percent, huh? Sounds big.
They're enormous! A new species created by man's recklessness. That's what I've been trying to tell you, I'm only a biologist. I take radioactive samples and study them.
Then you're perfect. Here's your radioactive sample. Study it.
What sample?
You're standing on it.
That was a footprint. I was standing inside a footprint.
That's right.
But there's no animal in the world that can make prints like that? Is there?
We're hoping you're going to help us figure that out.
Somebody must have seen it.
It happened so fast no one knew what hit them 'til is was over.
The radiation is not an anomaly, it's the clue. This creature is far too unique on every level to be some lost dinosaur.
Don't tell me why it's not, tell me what the hell it is.
What do we know? It was first sighted off the French Polynesian Pacific. An area that has been exposed to dozens of nuclear tests over the last thirty years.
You know, he's not an enemy trying to evade you. He's just an animal.
What are you suggesting?
When I needed to catch earthworms, I knew the best way to catch them was not to chase them. I had to draw them out.
Well, yes. I did. Clearly he was injured and bled.
You see, all we need to do is get a better shot at it with weapons that don't rely on heat seeking...
Um, excuse me, sir, but the situation's more complicated than that. The blood I recovered revealed that the creature is either about to lay eggs or already has.
No, it reproduces asexually. That's why we must find the nest. If we don't, dozens will be born, each one capable of laying eggs of its own. Very quickly we could be looking at an enormous population.
So after we kill the creature we'll begin a search for the nest.
It may be too late by then. These eggs will hatch very quickly.
You gave them the tape?
No, it's still in my tent. It's...oh my God, she took it.
Who are they? Lieutenant, get those people away from there.
They are with me!
CHARGEURES, property and casualty insurance. We are preparing a report.
You're fast.
That is our job.
Well your people are getting in the way of my job.
Major, what do you think could have done this?
Get your people out of there or I will.
When we learned he could burrow his way through the tunnels we realized he could be out of the quarantined zone.
Christ. How many tunnels lead off the island?
Only five, Sir. We've checked them all. He hasn't used any of them.
Have them sealed off.
And how should we do that, Sir?
Fill them with cement, brick them up, put land mines in them, bombs, I don't know, just make sure that goddamned thing doesn't leave the island!
Merde!
Allez, allez!
They will set the trap at thirty minutes to ten.
That is when we will go in.
We've secured the doors on both levels.
Where's Luc and Pierre?
They didn't make it.
Nick, my men and I will hold them here. You will have to go and get help!
Hi. Nick Tatopoulos...
Ah, Elsie Chapman, paleontologist.
Three years digging up worms in Chernobyl? How did Mrs. Tatopoulos handle it?
Oh, I'm not married.
Really? A girlfriend then?
No. Perhaps I work too much.
You mean to tell me that there is no one who holds a special place in your heart?
Not for a long time, now.
Well, I think you're cute.
Oh, thank you. Is she always like this?
Hence the radiation.
More than that. I believe this is a mutated aberration, a hybrid from the fall out in that region.
Evacuate Manhattan? That's over three million people. Has that ever been done before?
I don't think so.
I'm sorry about all this.
Me too.
Make sure they find that nest before it's too late.
I'll try.
Did you talk with Humphries?
This is not the place...
Just tell me, did you talk with him?
He said he'd consider it. It's between you and Rodriguez.
Are you serious? He's going to consider me for he job? What else did he say?
Mr. Caiman, you're married.
And you're beautiful...
Mr. Caiman...
Call me Charlie.
Mr. Caiman, I've been doing extra research for you after hours and weekends for nearly a year. And I've never asked for anything but this job is really important to me. I'm too old to be an assistant anymore. I need to know this job is going someplace.
So have dinner with me tonight.
I can't.
It's your choice.
Caiman, wait. Take me with you.
What?
I've got something on this. I know a guy on the inside with the military...
Not now. You got my bag?
You don't understand, I can get us information...
Listen, this is the time when the big boys have to go to work, okay Honey?
We did it! We've got the exclusive! Way to go, Audrey!
We? I don't think so.
I want that story, Audrey. Remember you work for me.
Not anymore. Mr. Caiman, I quit.
Hey, do you have any glue in your bag?
What's it to you?
Can I use some?
What do I get?
The warm feeling of helping your fellow man.
Five bucks.
You're kidding, right?
And I'm supposed to remind you to call him on all of Caiman's expense p.o.'s.
Speak of the devil.
My life sucks.
Oh, please, your life doesn't suck. His life sucks.
I can't believe he put the moves on me. After everything I've done for him.
He's scum! As far as he's concerned you're just a pair of breasts that talk.
It's Nick! I know that guy. I know him!
Who is he?
He was my college sweetie! Look at him. He looks so handsome on t.v. What the hell is he doing in Panama.
Did Romeo have a name?
Nick Tatopoulos.
Four years. Girl, I'm surprised he didn't ask you to marry him.
That's the problem. He did.
What the hell are you doing?
Remember my friend we saw on t.v.?
Your old sweetheart?
Yeah, well he just turned up in New Jersey at the military command post. Somehow all this is related to what happened down in Panama. There's a story here. I know it. You got any tape or glue?
I left my forgery kit back at the office.
Wish me luck!
Audrey, I don't think this is a very good idea. Caiman finds out and he'll have your job.
I'm tired of waiting for someone else to give me an opportunity, Luce. If there's a story here I'm going to find it.
I'll take them all.
You must have quite some harem.
Audrey?! Is that you? Hi, hello. You look, wow, uh, how've you been?
It's good to see you, Nick.
So you made it.
What?
You're a reporter. That's what you always wanted to be, right? I'm happy for you. Really, I am.
Yeah, well...
So, you still picking apart cockroaches?
No, I'm into earthworms now. You wouldn't be interested. They're real "boring" creatures. Very reliable, dependable, no surprises...
You're still mad at me, aren't you?
You just left me without a phone call, a letter, nothing. All this time. Yeah, I guess I'm still a little mad.
That was eight years ago. Some people change, you know.
Most people don't.
I'm sorry you feel that way.
Wait. I'm sorry. You're right. Eight years is a long time. Can I offer you a cup of tea?
Sure. I'd like that.
I still can't believe it. How does a guy go from an antinuke activists to working for the Nuclear Regulatory Commission?
When you and I use to attend rallies in college, we helped to create awareness. But from the inside now I can actually effect change. I never lost my idealism.
And exactly what changes are you trying to effect?
I have this theory that we're inadvertently creating new species as a direct result of what we've done to nature.
And you think this creature is one of them?
Yes. The first of its kind. I found this blood sample earlier this evening...
Blood sample? How close did you get to that thing?
I got pretty close.
What else do you know about it?
...he's pregnant.
Are you sure?
Well, obviously these tests weren't designed for this but fundamentally they're looking for the same hormonal patterns that would indicate pregnancy.
I don't get it. If it's the first of its kind, how can it be pregnant?
The ultimate expression of evolution, it reproduces asexually. Think about it, all kinds of creatures have been known to travel great distances for reproduction. That's why he came to New York. Like every species of insufficient progenitors, he's nesting!
Nesting?
Yes. Do you realize that a creature like this could lay as many as a dozen eggs at a time!
Is this cause of me? Because of the story?
Well what the hell did you think was going to happen?
You never said it was off the record.
I shouldn't have to, Audrey. You're supposed to be my friend. I trusted you.
I didn't mean for it to turn out like this. Look, I lied to you. I'm not a reporter. When we broke up and I came out to New York I was so sure I'd make it. But I haven't. That's why I needed this story so bad. I just couldn't tell you I'm a failure.
So you thought that made it okay to steal my tapes?
What are you doing here?
I thought you said there'd only be a dozen eggs.
I was wrong.
Circuits are overloaded.
I know a way. I know how you can get a message out of here.
Come on, the broadcast booth is right over here.
How do you know?
Our network covers the Ranger games.
The network is on an intranet. It's a direct feed into our computer system.
Your station won't have any easier time contacting the military than I did.
If the military are listening, they must immediately destroy this building before they can escape.
Oh my God! They're coming!
Are you okay?
Somehow I never thought your life was this exciting.
You'd be surprised.
Really? I'd like to find out.
Who was that French guy, anyway.
Oh, just some insurance guy.
I like that image.
You know how I spent last weekend? Walking his damned dog.
Animal, you don't think that's true, do you?
Nice guys finish last. First rule of the jungle.
Well, I can be tough if I want.
That why you dumped him?
No! I just couldn't see myself with some boring egg head who spends his summer picking apart cockroaches. I wanted to have some adventure, some fun...
How long where you and dis guy goin' steady?
Nearly four years...
Great stuff, Animal. Weren't you scared?
Sure I was. I thought Lucy was gonna kill me.
He stole my report! That's my report!
We know, Audrey.
You okay?
It's all my fault. What have I done, Animal? What have I become? Look at me. This isn't me. I don't do things like this.
You made a mistake.
Yeah, I just screwed up with the only man who ever really cared about me.
Didn't you tell me he left for the airport?
Yeah. Why are you asking?
I just saw him. He's with a bunch of guys who want to sneak into the city tonight.
My God. He's going after the nest.
Perfect! You wanted a story, well, baby, you got one.
Animal, I can't.
Look, you want to make it up to your friend? Well if he's right, this is your chance.
What are you doing?
Lucy'd kill me if she knew.
What are you doing?
It's the maintenance entrance. Runs along the side of the tunnel. When they repaired it last year I worked on a piece about it.
Don't you think we have enough?
Yes. Definitely. Definitely enough.
Think we can fit up in there?
Only one way to find out.
He's not going to do it.
Oh yes he will.
Cut uptown, take 8th to 57th then cut up Broadway.
You're crazy, go to the east side and take the park avenue to the JFK.
The JFK? In the rain!?
What are you talking about? The east side is always faster.
But we can get to the west side faster.
Audrey, did you take the tape out of the camera?
No.
That's cuz I'm married to you.
Shut up. How can you eat like that?
Big bites.
I'm telling you he's dirt. He's a douche bag, gutter slime, dog crap, puke chunks...
Hey, hey! I'm eating here!
Audrey, you're too damned nice, that's your problem. Nice gets you nothin' in this town. You gotta be a killer to get ahead, you know what I'm sayin'? I'm sorry, baby, but you just don't got what it takes.
Audrey's going to stay with us tonight.
Great. See ya then.
Who the hell are all these people?
What? I just couldn't just let them sleep in the street.
Where's Audrey?
In the bedroom. Crying her eyes out because of you.
What?
All that "you gotta be vicious" stuff you filled her head with.
Me!? You where the one...
Go in there. Talk to her.
Subject?
O'Neil, Jordan.
Thought you two were fileclosed.
You knew about us?
Sorry. Thought you knew I knew.
All right. So who stands to gain if Jordan flames out in a big way?
The ERingers? Full integration is gonna cost the services billions at the worst possible time  when Congress is already swinging the axe.
Congress cuts, military bleeds. But Pentagon's a big place. Let's narrow the sights.
The Navy? They've made it clear they don't want to pull missiles out of subs to make room for women's heads. What's it gonna cost to make a fleet of Trident's coed?
Sabotage born of economics? Wouldn't be a first. But is Hayes really going to start his watch with such a public failure?
Possibly. Just to spite DeHaven.
Hmm. Let's aim higher.
The White House. If Jordan wins, DeHaven wins in spades. Why? Well, it's been said that the only man the President fears  ain't no man.
The first female President?
Don't for a second think she didn't leak this story. "G.I. Jane" gives DeHaven a symbol that taps into the biggest constituency of them all.
Women.
If you were the President, wouldn't that put a little piss in your shoes?
I don't know. Seems...
This ain't about some little soldier girl sloggin' her way through commando school. The implications go way beyond.
Christ, I don't want to see her take a fall. She thinks I do, but...
I take it this file is still open.
Even tough I don't talk to her every day  I still talk to her every day. Know what I mean?
Okay, so now work it from the other end. Think about California  and how things might be handled there.
I don't... What, someone on base? A "mole"?
This is what you get for brain picking an old CIA spook. but if I needed to control the outcome of this test case, that's how I'd do it. A maninplace. Makes everything very controllable.
We're fucked.
Darth Vader reads poetry...
We are so fucked.
Can't live with them, can't kill them. What's the point?
Somebody throw a tent over this circus.
You mind? I'm trying to eat here.
So am I.
This ain't workin' right!
What's our gotoshit plan, O'Neil?
This ain't even workin' wrong!
Well, who the shit you think you are? Comin' in here like that?
Your new roommate.
Anybody usin' these drawers here?
Hey, hey, HEY. No possibility. You can't stay in here. You can't sleep right next to me.
Funny, the C.O. says I can.
Aw, lookit this, lookit this  she's bringin' Tampax in here. C'mon, you got nothin' but rooms over there.
That your desk? I'll take this one.
WOULD YOU JUST GET OUTTA HERE?
Listen, Sex Ape. I'm here to stay. And if you don't want me for a roommate or classmate, you got two options  move out or ring out. End of file.
Clear.
North?
All right, fireandevade maneuvers. Drop everything but weapons and the PRC radio  we're gonna be high speed, low drag all the way to the linkup site. Ready?
Sure. Now she wants to shoot.
MOVE!
I just wonder how that happened.
Cortez, see if you can dig out the tools without losing the rest of out gear. Try a wrench on that thing.
You don't suppose this is just part of...
FLEA! KEEP YOUR EYES ON THAT SPOT! Mark it, mark it! Cortez? What the hell you waiting for?
Maybe we should call the Coast Guard.
Shut your hole, Slutnik.
Say again, sir?
You heard me. Move on.
Chief, sir, I don't understand why 
Educate her, Pyro.
Permission to get dressed, sir?
It seems the men couldn't get used to the sight of women blown open and their viscera hanging from tree limbs. Israeli men would linger over wounded females  often to the detriment of the mission, often endangering their own lives. They don't use women anymore.
Sir, someone mentioned you received the Navy Cross. May I ask what you got it for?
For pulling a 210pound man out of a burning barrack in Saudi Arabia.
I see. So when a man tries to rescue another man, he's a hero. But when he tries to rescue a woman, he's gone soft.
Could you have pulled that 210pound man clear, lieutenant?
Females in combat situations impact unit cohesion. Men fight better without women around. And that is an historical fact.
It also seems like a problem with the men's attitude, sir. So maybe you should be sniffing around their shower room instead.
England went out with a stress fracture. That puts you in charge, lieutenant.
McCool's that same rank. We're both j.g.'s.
You were commissioned one month earlier, which makes you the senior officer. Remember. There are no bad crews  only bad leaders.
Simple question, lieutenant. No reason not to answer. What is your father's name?
"Dad."
Any brothers? Sisters?
Dick, Jane, and Spot.
Are you hungry? What's your favorite food? We'll try to get it for you.
Green Eggs and Ham. You're not going to get anywhere. You might as well put me in the cage.
You are in the cage, O'Neil. Right here, right now.
Should I be afraid?
Right down to your worthless womb, and I'll tell you why. This is my island. My world. And here I can get away with shit that would get me arrested anywhere else in the world. Take another scan of my little joy boy outside. If I can do that to a Navy Seal, what's gonna happen to you? Huh?
Why didn't you shoot the woman, O'Neil?
Wasn't deemed a threat.
She led us right to you. That's no threat?
Would you have shot if it was a man?
No. Yes. I mean, depends on 
The others already told me, O'Neil. They wanted to shoot, but you wouldn't let them. Because you went soft on another women 
That's not right.
That's what your crew said. Are they lying? Or are you?
I think you're the liar.
I'm not the one who got five good men thrown in a bamboo cage. You wear the bars, you made the call, and you got your whole crew 
We didn't know we were compromised. Firing would only've given away our position.
You think we should go easy on women, O'Neil?
Do you?
No.
I'm so glad we agree.
Didn't you know you'd be raped if you were captured? Didn't you even think about that?
Sure. Just like your men do.
I think we oughtta practice it, just so you know what to expect.
Well, I'm trying to figure out if you're stupid, unlucky, gluttonous  or some new alloy of all three.
Good to see you again, too, sir.
Okay, O'Neil. So you've impressed all the others. Now try me.
Managed to activate the ELB. If you just radio base and let them know, they'll fix on that. Oh, and make sure they send a helo with a winch  door's blocked by a reef. Over.
Chief, sir  rescue team won't be here for 15 minutes. What's your air situation? Over.
Say again? How many micks?
15, sir.
Got it.
Show us where you are, Chief.
O'Neil...
Shut up, sir. I'm concentrating.
What're you guys doing? Huh?
Just askin'
What, you gonna give it all up for a maple twist? How dumb you gotta be? That's exactly what they 
She part of the training?
I don't know...
If not, firing will only give away our position to hostiles in the area. Now how smart is that?
Mighta been civilian.
32 feet, six inches!
I'm lookin', I'm lookin'!
'Cool?
Smoke it!
So we got two full minitanks, three minutes each. 'Cool? How much air in yours?
Maybe half. Not even.
Grab an oar, find a way to weight it down, we're gonna need it. Cortez, help him. Flea? You take one of the two full minis  and just follow my lead.
They're more afraid of you.
Well, now I feel so much better.
It was made clear before you came  harassment equals career suicide. Can't say anything good, so they don't say much at all. To your face, anyway.
Whose orders were those?
It was made clear. Anyway, stay ballsy. First week's hell, then it levels out. Until S.E.R.E. training, anyway. That's hellandahalf.
And how do you know that?
Made it to Week 10 last time.
I didn't know they let you try again. Especially at your age.
You're kind of a surprise yourself.
Hey. Way to gut it out.
Thanks, Wick.
Who is it?
You know, I had an apartment about this size once.
Wick. They got your crew, too?
Intagliata was out chasing breakfast. They found his tracks. Well, shit.
You really came back for more? Of this?
When I was sittin' behind a desk in Washington, it made sense, somehow. Blame it on my big brother. He was SpecRecon. And the stories he used to tell...
If you got a good one, Wick...
One time he was doing a rekkie of the Libyan coastline. This is, like, right before we bombed Khadaffi into the past tense. So his crew does a nighttime infil, maps all the big artillery placements and stuff, then turns around to get the hell gone. But between them and the water are five Libyan guards, all armed to the nuts.
They had to kill 'em?
Nah, they were deadass asleep. But on every guard's chest,they left one Marlboro cigarette. Just a little calling card to say they'd been there  and could come back any time they wanted.
That's a good story.
So the shit you gotta go through? To get from here to there? Brother said it was worth it. Worth the training... worth the divorce... worth anything.
He was married?
At first.
You got anybody, Wick?
Not me. You?
O'Neil?
How'd you make it last time, Wick? How'd you get through this part?
Last time I didn't.
Let's keep talkin', Wick. Just keep talkin' to me...
Sorry, didn't mean to 
That's okay. Just an exgirlfriend. And know I remember why.
First big night of liberty and no date? You're pathetic, Wickwire.
Maybe I'll just head over to McP's with the others, have a drink or four. Don't wanna come, do you?
I can't go out. Not like this.
I think you look beautiful.
Thanks for lying. But you're the class officer, Wick, and it'd just be weird if we hook up. Besides...
Do you, uh, know...
Sure, sure.
We're going over to her place to make salad and pasta. Just, you know, nothing special.
Okay. Well... thought I'd ask.
I'm sorry, O'Neil. But as class officer, it's my obligation to report all violations.
This is insane. You've got no proof.
Lieutenant O'Neil.
Gotta situation here. Where are you? Stuck in traffic?
Not due in for 22 minutes, sir. Watcha got?
Do we know it's him using the beacon? Not a decoy?
Signals received only sparingly, in such a pattern that leads us to conclude it is a downed aviator trying to conserve his batteries.
Chances of recovery?
You're the analyst for East China, O'Neil. Analyze.
North Korean beaches are the best protected, most heavily monitored in the world. The civilian population is so propagandized that it acts as an Early Warning system. Extraction team has to be small and silent  I'd go with Seals over Delta Force. Problem is, don't want to hold a conventional sub offshore for target practice. Where's The Polk?
Halfway 'round the world. So that's the problem  we can get the team in, just not out.
Unless you Whiskey Run.
Blank faces here, O'Neil.
Quickhit technique used by Capone. Rigged a getaway car with running boards and handles. All his guys had to do was jump on and take a ride. Check the files  DPRK57  I doped it out as a contingency plan: Seal Team infiltrates, picks up the package, links up with recovery sub. But don't waste time opening and closing hatches. They just grab the periscope and hang on for neutral waters.
You expect the extraction team to ride the sub bareback? Is that correct, O'Neil?
Only four minutes to neutral waters, sir. Why not?
That was good headwork, lieutenant.
Thank you, sir. We hear back from the Pentagon?
Probably hear back from CNN first.
Hate this part. Just sweating it out on the sidelines.
Intel has its own glory, lieutenant  no matter how subtle.
By the way, I'll need that option paper by 11hundred today so I can review it with Admiral Hanover. And do we have any of that breakfast tea around here?
Is this my glory, sir?
So why're you even considering it? Are you?
Just like you would be.
SpecRecon. Those guys are world class warriors. And they will not want you there, Jordan.
I take it you don't either. Feet.
Well, you're doin' shithot at Intel.
Royce. We're the same age, we started the same time  and now you're sitting in the upperdecks while I'm still down in the bullpen. What does that tell you about the Navy?
She's haze grey and underway...
You need operational duty to really advance... you need combat training to go operational... yet combat training is offlimits to people with tits. I'm topped out at Intel. Forget the glass ceiling  I'm beating my head on a big brass ceiling.
So dump on me.
This has nothing to do with you.
Well, guess I don't even need to be here...
Get your dick back here. It has everything to do with you.
You're such a ballbreaker sometimes. Especially at night.
Sorry. But after our days... So if I try this thing... if I ship out to Coronado... what happens here?
I'll try to keep the door open. If you wash out, I make it so that 
Wai', wait. What happens if it works? Four months of training, three years of operational duty. What then?
I don't feel like doing an option paper on the rest of my life, Jordan. Maybe we should just let it happen.
Which is guyspeak for...
Sounded lame as soon as it came out of my mouth. But I'm trying to be honest, okay? Three years is a long time. Don't ask me to predict how I'll feel then, Jordan, because I don't know. And either do you.
You know, right up until you said that  I thought I did know.
Jordan...
Thank you, Royce. It was shaping up like such a tough call  and then you go and make it so goddamn easy. Really, thank you so much.
I've been trying you for five days. Don't they give you messages?
It's hard to find time to sleep, Royce. Much less keep up with my phone life.
How hard they making it on you?
That bad?
I feel like there's men here, there's women here  then there's men. But hey, what'd I expect?
Well, not this. I was doing the Pentagon scene few nights ago. Got some fresh stuff  about you. You may be in a hostile camp. I think someone may be taking steps to ensure that you crash and burn.
Me? Why me?
Don't you know? How they're talking about you?
I saw an article...
I can't walk two blocks in Washington without hearing about "G.I. Jane." You're all over the place, and whether you wanted it or not, the feminists are sizing you up for that poster.
So why are you telling me this?
Big symbols make big targets, Jordan. I think someone's gunning for you.
You know, Royce, I got enough heat on me without you turning up the jets, too.
I'm only trying to warn you in case 
Well, let me warm you: I'm going though with this. The more everybody fucks with me, fucks with my head, the more it just makes me want to finish. So don't expect me back crying in your arms any time soon, okay?
That's not what I want, Jordan. I mean... it is and it isn't...
Still can't make up your mind, huh? Gotta go, Royce.
Jordan. You watch your ass.
Sure. I'll join the crowd.
All I wanted was an honest chance. And If I couldn't get it, I couldn't stay.
And this class officer... "Wickwire." You think he was just trying to get even? Striking back for...
Maybe. Though it didn't seem like he was getting any satisfaction out of it. Almost like... Did I say he was class officer?
Almost like someone put him up to it. Okay, who?
No shortage of suspects.
The Chief? Or maybe even Turrentine? Your C.O.?
C'mon, Jordan. Do the headwork with me.
It's done with, Royce. Let it go.
Someone screwed you over like this, left unanswered charges hanging over your head, and you're not gonna fight back?
I'm tired of fighting back. I just wanted to come home and be safe and have you here and the river there and just forget the rest of the world, okay?
Well, before you crawl off to die, Jordan, give me five minutes of good headwork.
"John James Urgayle." The Chief.
What about him.
Instructors typically pull three year assignments. This guy's in and out in one year  your year. That sound right?
Sounds like an amazing coincidence.
Or like maybe he was baby sitting a problem child for the Navy.
I don't know, I don't care.
Well, pardon me if I do. Now who else? Who could've leveraged a class officer like that? C'mon, Jordan, keep your head in the game.
"In Washington..."
What?
Wickwire said he was drydocked in Washington between stints at Coronado...
"Wickwire, Thomas Dane"... Second run at Coronado... and correct, they had him stashed in the "Appropriation Liaison Office," whatever that is.
You don't crap out of SpecRecon and get another shot without dispensation from someone up in flag country. He's got a Sea Daddy somewhere.
I'd sure like to know who.
Yeah. Me too.
So here we are again. Staring three years of operational duty in the face.
Look. It's not like you'd be completely out of reach. And maybe we could call in a few favors, get you stationed at Norfolk instead of Coronado. There are ways of dealing with these things  I mean, if people are so inclined.
Which is guyspeak for...
"Yes, Jordan  I'll wait for you no matter how long."
Thank you, sir. But I like these just fine.
Not doin' them very fine, O'Neil.
I'll try anyway, sir.
You'll try what we tell you to try, O'Neil. Go regulation.
Automatic fivesecond deduction, which slips you under the wire. It's called "gendernorming," O'Neil  standard procedure for all females in physical training courses. Where you been the last few years?
What "all females"? If I'm the only 
The Navy Cross...
I believe he earned it for saving a man's life in Saudi Arabia. He wanted you to have it. He was very clear on that point.
I was looking for him earlier, but...
The Chief was granted early retirement as of 17hundred yesterday. By 18hundred he was gone. Out of the Navy.
Just a coincidence?
Maybe it's not my place to speculate on his private thoughts. But I think the Chief knew that his way  his world  had come and gone.
Time.
Check your watch, Pyro. Seems fast.
Miller. Thought the guy was made of depleted uranium. Really didn't expect to lose him.
Every class has its surprises, Pyro. This one'll be no different.
Boat Five  Wickwire, Cozad, Vinyl, Intagliata, Ayers, and Wise. Lieutenant Wickwire is your senior officer. Follow his orders to your death.
Get it up!
You don't think she'd be raped if she were captured? You don't think the threat of rape would be used to leverage the men?
You broke a dozen training rules back there  before I lost count.
I've had it. Just because they pay me like a babysitter doesn't mean I'm gonna be one.
She's a trainee, just like the others. Why are you coming down so hard?
She's an officer. There's a higher standard.
She's a women, and that's why you're ridin' her bareback.
Of course it is. And I'm gonna stay on her until everyone realizes this is not some bullshit equalrights thing, that real lives are gonna be lost. Maybe mine, maybe yours.
I oughtta report you.
I think you probably would  if you didn't know I was right.
Don't have to use it, O'Neil, but it's gotta go out. Five... four... three...
I can make this wall without 
... two... one... MARK!
Just do it, okay?
If you can't feel the other guy's pecker, you ain't in tight enough! I want nuts to butts!
Come on, Montgomery...
Flea! O'Neil! Why is there a break in that line?
O'Neil?
Sir?
You're wanted at the C.O.'s.
Montgomery, why do they call you "Flea"?
It's really "F. Lee Montgomery"  but that gets whittled down to just "Flea." For short, ma'am.
So it really has nothing to do with actual brain size?
No, ma'am.
Well, Flea, I appreciate the respect you just showed me. But I don't need it and don't want it  not that kind of respect, anyway. It's just gonna hurt us both, okay?
I'll work on it, ma'am.
Do that.
Hey. You okay, Flea?
'Snot me. It's him.
Really don't wanna be captured, el tee. Heard some bad things.
Fuck. BasherBasher, this is Ground Crew Six requesting emergency extraction. Stand by for a PRC fix...
Close as I can get, eltee!
Flea, 'Cool, Cortez, Newman  take your minis, hit the water. Go, GO!
Six o'clock! Marking, marking!
Spotted you, Chief. Pri One is to slip you some air, so we're coming down with a tank  just something until the Ateam shows. Over.
So she picks the women, we pick the programs. Seals?
I'd go Special Reconnaissance. Every bit as tough  and we have a 60 percent dropout rate among the men.
Then I suggest we start there.
Doesn't matter who she picks. No woman is going to last one week in a commando training course. And I don't care who it is.
What the hell is the President trying to do? Steal DeHaven's thunder?
I think it's more important, sir, to decide what we're going to do  since it's apparent this issue is not going away quietly.
"G.I. Jane." And which one of you told me she wouldn't last a week? Huh?
So everyone I talk to says you're top drawer with silk stockings inside.
Thank you, ma'am. Um, may I ask what this is regarding?
Highschool pentathlete... ROTC scholarship, graduated with honors... top marks in Basic Training... and, as it just so happens, a constituent of my home state of Virginia. Oh, the things I'll do for one extra vote.
"Coronado."
California.
I know that, sir. Ma'am. It's just that... Beggin' your pardon, Senator, but... do you understand that this involves combat training?
This is just a test case, O'Neil. But if it works out  if you work out  it could well change the Navy's official policy on women in combat. Or, actually, its official nonpolicy. Now who's your immediate superior there?
Captain Dwyer. Technically.
My office will fill him in and help expedite. Look forward to meeting you at the proper time. Jumping off now...
Uh, question, ma'am.
Yes, dear.
Would I be the only one? The only woman?
There'll be more to follow  but yes, dear, right now you're the pick of a very large litter. And your success would mean a lot. Jumping, now...
Can't complain, ma'am.
Hmmm. Maybe I'll ask when I see you in person.
Uh, ma'am.
Gonna be visiting that allwoman's America's cup team in a few weeks  If I were a gambler, I'd say Dennis O'Conner's days are numbered. But they're in San Diego, so I thought I'd take a quick promenade of the base.
Jordan. I always hoped we'd get together  though just now I'm gearing up for a childcare vote that 
Lieutenant Thomas Wickwire.
You know him.
Sounds familiar.
It should. You nominated him for SpecRecon just three days after you nominated me.
Jordan. Might we do this over lunch tomorrow? I do very much want to talk, but now is scarcely 
Did you set me up? Did you set me up just to see me fail?
Absolutely not.
Wickwire was there to help. To be my eyes on the inside, to make sure you were getting a fair shot. At least that was the intent.
What changed?
Should probably ask him that.
If I have to ask again, Senator, I'll be asking in front of cameras.
So? Isn't the President jumping on your bandwagon?
What he did was light the bandwagon on fire. Because he knows what I know  that American families are not prepared to put their daughters in harm's way.
You don't know that.
In face, I do: Roper, Harris, Gallop  they all come back the same.
What are you saying? That a women's life is more valuable than a man's? That a women's death hurts a family more?
I'm saying it's not going to happen. Not when the President is set to turn this into a thirdrail issue should I choose to ever campaign against him. He will fry me six ways to Sunday for sending daughters and young mothers off to war  and, quite possibly, for bringing them back in body bags.
You were never going to let women serve in combat. You always had a safety net. Or thought you did.
Jordan. I don't expect you to fully understand this  but sometimes there's more to be gained from the fight than the victory.
So the rhetoric gets you headlines. But the reality gets you in trouble.
The reality is this: We send far too many men off to war. I don't need to compound the problem with women. Can you honestly tell me you wanted that life? Squatpissing in some thirdworld jungle with 
I wanted the choice. The chance to prove myself, my skills, my work, me. That's how it should've been.
I once promised you a fast ticket, Jordan, and I always meant to make good on that. Come work for me. I can always use a hardcharger on my team.
You promise Wickwire a fast ticket, too?
I've had no direct communication with him since this whole thing began. And that's quite verifiable.
I'm sure it is.
You'll think about my offer?
You know, I wonder what the SecNav would think about it. If I spoke with him.
Well, I spoke with Mr. Hayes this morning myself  and told him the deal was off. No more test cases. He was only too happy to oblige. Don't play politics with me, little darlin'. You'd be up way past your bedtime.
... last few years have brought many advances in the interests of women in naval service, particularly in the landbased maritime specialties. What's more, the Navy has instituted special sensitivity courses with an eye on 
Whoa, whoa, whoa. "Landbased maritime specialties." Gimme a second here to deeuphemize that...
Hardly the case, Senator.
Well, I'm just an old dame without much time left, so you'll pardon me if I jump right in here before they discontinue my bloodtype. I am deeply concerned over the Navy's seemingly incontrovertible attitude toward women in the military. Case in point...
"The Lark Report."
Madam Senator... this is an internal document of the U.S. Navy. I must seriously question whether 
The Navy's conclusion regarding the crash of an F14 aboard an aircraft carrier. Female aviator, it just so happens. You're familiar with this report and its conclusion, am I right?
I was one member of the investigating commission.
Yes, I see your signature right here  twice the size of everyone else's. And your conclusion was "pilot error," hmm?
I'm really not prepared for any kind of indepth review of 
I'd like to think our next Secretary of the Navy would be prepared for anything, Mr. Hayes.
The commission concluded that the aviator in question failed to execute a proper approach to the carrier.
That aside for the moment, I'm struck by the tenor, the illspirit of your report... the degrading remarks by other aviators... innuendo about her performance in unrelated situations... even a reference to her sexual activity the weekend prior. In my seven years on this committee, I've never seen a downed aviator treated like this. Never. I'm deeply disturbed by this report, Mr. Hayes. Not just what it bodes for women in the military  but for your own confirmation as well.
White House boys want a private meeting.
I'll act surprised.
Think I overplayed it?
Congress and the Pentagon share a lot of plumbing. They'll never know whose leak it is.
Yes?
Did you hear?
She made it through S.E.R.E. training. Got a call this morning from 
Not that. The White House just announced that it was sponsoring legislation that would, in one stroke, void all remaining elements of the 1948 Combat Exclusion Laws.
Shit. Think we're had.
Smoke her.
I ain't gonna shoot her.
Only blanks. Lemme do it.
Hey. Ain't your call, man.
Banditos on the east perimeter! 150 yards! Shit, she was part of it!
Fuck me.
What, we're gonna pry 'em out with paddles?
O'Neil. Our air's gonna crap out as soon as we get down there. You know that, don't you?
Aw, what is this...
Sir...
Ah, c'mon...
Motherachrist...
Fine by me, sir!
No problem, sir!
Newberry, get a photo. South?
Entering my scan now...
West?
Yes, of course. Please, have a seat, lieutenant...
Thank you, sir.
Would you care for a beverage? Tea?
I'm fine, sir.
So. We're still coming to terms with the exact protocol for this  for integrating the SpecRecon training. It may not always be smooth, but we're trying to make it as painless as possible for you.
Thank you, sir. But I expect a certain amount of pain.
Barber was my next stop, sir. Would've had it regulation sooner, only 
Don't worry about it. If it's off your collar and out of your eyes, that's all I'm going to ask.
Really, I have no problem with 
I'm not out to change your sex, lieutenant. You'll have separate beds, separate heads. If you have specific medical needs, inform the infirmary. If a classmate or superior acts in an harassing or otherwise unbecoming manner, please inform me immediately so I can deal with it immediately. Questions?
None at this time, sir.
Then that's all I have to say. Dismissed.
Sir, I just want you to know... I'm not here to make a statement. I don't want to make men look foolish. All I care about is completing the training and getting operational experience  just like everyone else, I suspect.
If you were like everyone else, lieutenant, I suspect we wouldn't be making statements about not making statements, would we? Take your leave.
Pardon the hour, sir. But you told me to come to you immediately if I felt I was being mistreated in any way.
Didn't take long.
All right, lieutenant, give me a name and specifics, I'll have the X.O. file an action first thing in the morning. A name?
It's you, sir. And it started the day I came here.
Oh, really.
It's this doublestandard, the separate quarters, the deferential treatment. It's how you pulled out my chair and nearly served high tea the first time we met.
Because I was civil, now you're complaining.
I can't afford civility, sir. How am I supposed to fit in with these guys when you've got me set up as an outsider? Even if I make it under these rules, I still lose, because there'll always be a flag in my file  "Yeah, she made it, but..." I mean, really  why didn't you just issue me a goddamn petticoat to wear around the base?
Did you just have a brainfart?
Pardon?
Did you just barge in here and curse at your base commander? If so, I regard that as a bonafide brain fart, and I resent it when people fart inside my home.
I think you've resented me from the start, sir.
What I resent, lieutenant, is some politician using my base as a test tube for her grand social experiment. What I resent is the sensitivity training that is now mandatory for my men... the daycare center I have to build where an officer's lounge used to be... and the OB/GYN I have to keep on staff just so someone can keep track of your personal pap smears. But most of all, lieutenant, I resent your perfume, however subtle it may be, competing with the aroma of my fine threedollarandfifty nine cent cigar, which I will happily put out this very instant if the phallic nature of it happens to offend your goddamn fragile sensibilities. DOES IT?
No, sir.
No, sir, WHAT?
The shape doesn't bother me. It's just that goddamn rotten stench.
Well. 'Least now we're talking the same language. So one standard. Is that what you're after?
Same rules for everyone, sir.
Straight up?
Across the board, sir.
And if you just happen to wash out, I won't have to contend with you bitchin' to some hairychested female Senator? And please note I did not identify any one in particular.
Wouldn't dream of it, sir.
Then good night.
So I'll get a fair shot?
You'll get everything you want, O'Neil. Let's see if you want what you're gonna get.
See me, sir?
You makin' friends with the press, lieutenant?
Sir, I want you to know that I had nothing to do with any of this. Not this article, not 
"We'll all have lunch." Good idea. Oh, and let's be sure to invite this sociologist, too  just in case we want to have a FUCKING BRIDGE GAME AFTERWARDS!
Permission to leave, sir?
Permission to evaporate, O'Neil.
I don't know of any delicate way to say this, lieutenant, so I won't try. Claims have been made that you have engaged in fraternization  of the samesex variety. Specifically, that you were... "... seen leaving the apartment of another female officer at such a time and in such a manner as to suggest conduct unbecoming."
Sir, if someone is suggesting that I'm a lesbian, they're wrong.
I'm saying, we're just friends.
I find this as distasteful as you, lieutenant. But if it's on my desk, it's on my shoulders. There's going to be an inquiry  it will not be quick and it will definitely not be pretty. You should prepare yourself.
Sir, please... if there's any way to do this without dragging everyone through the mud...
I don't see how, O'Neil. Dismissed.
Sir. If tomorrow... I was not under your command... would the inquiry still go forward?
I'm not sure what 
Would you have the discretion to end it right then and there?
Well, if you had to go over my head, lieutenant, that's the way to do it. Christ, nothin' like a 0200 call from the Commander and Chief to get the bowels movin'.
Sir? What did he say?
Basically  he asked me if I could unring a bell.
Commander, are you of the habit of letting photographers traipse around your base snappin' their fill? These were supposed to have been discreet test cases 
Senator, they stand out on the public highway with telephoto lenses 
 and now I got reporters from Toadsquat, Iowa, calling my office and askin' what I know about this "G.I. Jane" thing.
 nothing I can do about it unless you're suggesting I infringe on their civil liberties  which I'd happily do if you'll just trim a little fat off the Constitution.
Are you truly mouthin' off to a senior member of the Senate Arms Committee? I mean, I'll give you points for style  just nothin' for smarts.
Well, seein's how this thing is out, you let me handle the r.p.m. From this point forward, I want all press matters coordinated via my office. I'll be goddamned if I'm gonna watch Hayes pull flowers out of his ass and take credit for this one. Him or the President. This my shade? "Midnight Mahogany"? 'Cuz I'm comin' dangerously close to lookin' like Ronald Reagan here.
Your prerogative, Senator.
Awright. How's our girl doin', anyway?
Standing right here in my office.
Jordan, dear. How are they treating you?
Uh, V.I.P. security arrangements generally take some time, Senator.
"Security"? What the hell you talkin' about? Your base isn't secure?
Of course, but there's more 
Then set out the good plates, we'll all have lunch. My office will follow up with details. Jumping off, now...
B.O.Q., south side. Take a starboard tack out the door.
Thank you, ensign.
No problem, lieutenant.
They take you away to San Clemente Island. Half the guys quit when they come back. Supposed to be just hellandahalf.
That's what I hear.
Can I ask you somethin', lieutenant? How come you're doing this? I mean, we're kinda curious.
Who's "we"?
Just some of the women.
I don't know if there's any single reason. But my father was Navy. And he had this oldtime recruiting poster in his den. It showed a girl trying on a sailor's uniform while saying, "Gee, I wish I were a man! I'd join the Navy!" Was maybe 10 years old when I first saw it, and even then it felt wrong. Made me mad. And I don't think a month has gone by that I haven't thought about that poster. "Gee, I wish I were a man."
I've been accused of that wish.
The woman I saw you with...
Just a friend. We have friends, too, you know.
But are there... I mean, how many...
More than you'd guess. It's just that we don't hold coffee klatches. If more then three of us get together at any one time, the guys think it's some kind of uprising.
Administration, Ensign Blondell.
Don't say my name.
Who's... Lieuten 
Or rank. But can you do me a favor and pull a transfer order?
Okay, but... You didn't have to do what you did. Not for me.
"Wickwire, Thomas Dane." See what you can find.
Got it.
Who signed as his "sponsoring officer"?
Uh... don't see it. There's no signature. But hang on  there's a note to "See Addendum." Checking...
Wow...
What'd you find, Kathy?
How 'bout you? You are safer in here with us than wandering around a Mexican border town all night long. Just don't do nothin' stupid and we'll all get along fine. Scotty, you sure you don't want a drink?
Okay, I'll have one.
In that camper out there I saw a guitar. I take it that's yours.
Yeah, it's mine.
Go out and bring it in. I feel a song coming on.
You could take their head off.
Actually, our best weapon against these satanic cocksuckers is this man. He's a preacher.
He's right, Kate. Daddy's dead! He was too far away. If flinging that door and filling this room with those batthings would save him, I'd fling it. The only thing it'll do is turn us into one of them.
He needs our help!
He's beyond our help. You saw him get bit. I saw him get bit. We all saw it. You can't help him. I've got no one left to lose but you. I can't be alone again. We're sticking together.
What the fuck was that about?
He signaled the Ranger.
What the fuck is wrong with you 
Seth, he did it. You were by the beer cooler with your back turned. I was by the magazines, I could see his face. And I saw him mouth:
Start the car.
You believe me don't cha?
Shut up and start the car.
Richie? You okay?
I'm not dead, but I'm definitely shot! I told you that bastard said, "Help us!"
Yeah?
When I count three, shoot out the bottles behind him!
Gotcha!
One... Two... Three.
What did I tell you? What did I tell you? Buy the road map and leave.
What am I supposed to do, Seth? He recognized us.
He didn't recognize shit.
Do they have cable?
No.
Do they have an Xrated channel?
No.
Do they have a waterbed?
They don't have anything except four walls and a roof, and that's all we need.
How's it feel?
How ya think, it hurts like a sonof abitch.
I got both rooms on either side of us, so we don't gotta worry about eavesdropping assholes. How's that feel? You okay?
Feels good.
I'm gonna go get the money.
Hey, when you talk to him, see if you can arrange a better deal than thirty percent.
That's their standard deal, brother. They ain't about to change it for us.
Did you even to try to negotiate?
These guys ain't spic firecracker salesman from Tijuana. They don't even know the meaning of the word "barter". You wanna stay in El Ray? You give them thirty percent of your loot. It's scripture. So it is written, so shall it be done. You want sanctuary, you pay the price, and the price is thirty percent.
All I'm saying 
 This conversation is over.
Shit, I started to get worried. Where the fuck ya been?
Sight seein'.
What'd ya see?
Cops.
Didya look at the border?
Yeah, I saw the border. Through binoculars from on top of a high building. That's about as close as I risked getting. What's the TV say?
They're going to apprehend us in fortyeight hours.
I gotta figure a way to get across that goddamn border. Longer we fuck around El Paso our lives ain't worth a shit.
Look, fuck the border. Let's just dig in and wait for things to cool down.
Richie, it's gonna get a lot fuckin' worse before it gets any fuckin' better. We showed our ass in Texas. We killed Texas fuckin' Rangers. They ain't gonna stop lookin' till they find us, and when they find us, they're gonna kill us. Texans take it very personal when ya kill their law enforcement officers. The El Paso police have already started a motel and hotel search for us.
How do you know?
I heard it on the radio. We gotta get our asses into Mexico tonight. Carlos is gonna meet us tomorrow morning at a rendezvous on the other side, then Carlos and his boys will escort us to El Ray and 
Where's the woman?
What?
What'd ya mean, what? The fuckin' woman, the hostage. Where the fuck is she, Richard!?
She's in the other room.
What the fuck is she doin' there?!
Yeah, explain it to me. I need an explanation. What's the matter with you?
There's nothing wrong with me, brother. That woman tried to escape and I did what I had to do.
No. That woman wouldn't of said shit if she had a mouthful.
Wrong, wrong, wrong, wrong, wrong, wrong, wrong! Once you left, she became a whole different person.
Is it me? Is it my fault?
It's not your fault, it's her fault!
Is this my fault? Do you think this is what I am?
What?
This is not me! I am a professional fucking thief. I steal money. You try to stop me, god help you. But I don't kill people I don't have to, and I don't rape women. What you doin' ain't how it's done. Do you understand?
Seth, if you were me 
Just say yes! Nothing else, just say yes.
Yes.
Yes, Seth, I understand.
Yes, Seth, I understand.
Richard!
What?
This isn't gonna work.
Shut up. It's gonna work just fine,
I just want to go on record as saying this is a bad idea.
Duly noted. Now, shut up.
They're gonna search the van.
As long as you don't act like a fuckin' nut, we'll be just fine.
What does that mean?
What?
You just called me a fuckin' nut.
No, I didn't.
Yes, you did. You said as long as I don't act like a fuckin' nut, implying that I've been acting like a fuckin' nut.
Take a pill, kid. I just meant stay cool.
You meant that, but you meant the other, too.
This ain't the time, Richard.
Fuck those spic pigs! You called me a fuckin' nut, and where I come from, that stops the train on its tracks.
Keep your voice down.
Or what?
I'm curious. What was the nuttiest thing I did?
This ain't the time.
Oh, I know, was it possibly when your ass was rotting in jail and I broke it out? Yeah, you're right, that was pretty fuckin' nutty. Not to mention stupid. But you know what? I can fix that right now.
You okay?
Yeah, I think so. What happened?
I don't know, you just passed out.
I did?
Yeah, we were just standing there. You said something about your shoulder hurting, then you just hit the ground like a sack of potatoes.
Really?
Yeah, when you fell your head smacked the toilet hard. It scared the shit outta me. Sure you're okay?
Yeah, I guess. I'm just a little fucked up.
Well, let me tell ya something, gonna clear your head right up. We are officially Mexicans.
What?
We are... "South of the border down Mexico way."
We are?
Yep. We're heading for the rendezvous right now. We get there, we pound booze till Carlos shows up, he escorts us to El Ray. And then me and you, brother, kick fuckin' back. How ya like them apples?
Far out. Where are my glasses?
They broke when you fell.
Oh, fuck, Seth, that's my only pair!
Don't worry about it, we'll get you some glasses.
What dya mean, don't worry about it. Of course I'm gonna worry about it, I can't fuckin' see.
When we get to El Ray, I'll take care of it.
Yeah, like a Mexican holeinthe wall's gonna have my fuckin' prescription.
It's not a big deal, unless you make it a big deal. Now, I'm real happy, Richie, stop bringing me down with bullshit.
That's what you think?
That's how you're lookin', Richie.
I'm lookin' scared?
That's what you look like.
You know what you look like?
No, Richie, what do I look like?
You're lookin' green.
How?
Where are you right now?
What do you mean?
Where are you?
I'm here with you.
No, you're not. You're sippin' margaritas in El Ray. But we're not in El Ray. We're here  getting ready to go in there. You're so pleased with yourself about getting into Mexico, you think the job's down. It ain't. Get back on the clock. That's a fuckwithyoubar. We hang around there for a coupla hours, in all likelihood, we'll get fucked with. So get your shit together, brother.
My shit is together.
It don't look together.
Well, it is. Just because I'm happy doesn't mean I'm on vacation. You're just not used to seein' me happy, 'cause it's been about fifteen fuckin' years since I been happy. But my shit is forever together.
Earth to Richie. Don't you wanna ask your new friend to join us?
Yeah.
Well, then ask her, dumb ass.
Por favor, Senorita. Would you care to join us?
How are you?
Scarred for life, that's how I am!
Whiskey!
You can't come in here.
What dya mean?
This is a private club. You're not welcome.
Are you tellin' me I'm not good enough to drink here?
This bar is for bikers and truckers only. You, get out!
Best in Mexico.
I kinda doubt that. We're grabbin' a table, send over a waitress to take our order.
What do you want from me? I did what you said.
Letting him use your toilet? No store does that.
He comes in here every day and we bullshit. He's used my toilet a thousand times. If I told him no, he'd know something was up.
I want that sonofabitch out outta here, in his car, and down the road or you can change the name of this place to "Benny's World of Blood."
Were you giving that pig signals?
What? Are you kidding? I didn't do anything!
He says you were scratching.
I wasn't scratching!
You callin' him a liar?
I never said help us!
Well that don't matter now, 'cause you got about two fuckin' seconds to live! Richie!
Hot goddamn day!
Haven't felt it a bit. Been inside with the air conditioner blastin' all day long.
Not even for lunch?
I'm by myself today, ate my lunch outta the microwave.
Jesus Christ man, that microwave food will kill ya as quick as a bullet. Those burritos are only fit for a hippie high on weed. Pull me down a bottle of Jack Daniels. I'm gettin' tanked tonight.
Whatsamatter?
Awww, it's just been a shitass day. Every inch of it hot and miserable. First off, Nadine at the Blue Chip got some sorta sick, so that Mongoloid boy of hers was workin' the grill. That fuckin' idiot don't know rat shit from Rice Krispies. I ate breakfast at nine, was pukin' up pigs in a blanket like a sick dog by ten thirty.
Isn't there a law or something against retards serving food to the public?
Well, if there ain't there sure oughta be. Who knows what goes on inside Mongoloid's mind?
You could sue the shit out of her, ya know. That kid belongs under a circus tent, not flippin' burgers. You could own that fuckin' place.
What the hell would I do with that grease pit? Besides, Nadine's got enough of a cross to bear just taking care of that potato head. Then all this Abilene shit happened. You heard about that bank robbery in Abilene, didn't ya?
That's all that's been on the box all day. They killed some people didn't they?
Four Rangers, three cops, and two civilians. And they took a lady bank teller as a hostage.
They'll probably make a run for the border, which would bring 'em this way. And if we get our hands on those shit asses, we're talking payback time. We'll get 'em all right. I gotta piss. I'm gonna use your commode.
Knock yourself out.
Yeah, and I'm gonna be right back at it tomorrow. So tonight I'm gonna sit in front of the box and just drink booze. How much is the bottle?
Sixfifty.
For the time being we are very confident we will apprehend the fugitives in the next fortyeight hours. The Bureau, local law enforcement and the Texas Rangers have all joined forces in forming a dragnet to snare Seth and Richard Gecko.
Agent Chase, does it appear that they are heading for Mexico.
Yes, it does, Kelly. We have already alerted the Mexican authorities. They intend to cooperate every way possible in bringing these fugitives to justice.
Are you optimistic about the safety of the hostage they took in Abilene, Gloria Hill?
We've received no news one way or the other. We can only hope for the best.
What about the report from an eyewitness at the liquor store who said one of the brothers was shot?
This can't be confirmed at this time, but we do believe it to be true. We have reason to believe it was the youngest brother Richard, and he was shot in the vicinity of his neck and shoulders by the store's clerk.
Is it safe to assume that because the death count involved and the loss of life of law enforcement officers, that the Bureau, the Rangers and the police force are taking this manhunt personally?
I would say that's a very safe assumption.
Why, just look at all this. You got your kitchen 
 you got your microwave 
 you got your sink 
 you got your shower 
 see this, television!
Feel this, real wood paneling. That's real wood, too, not that fake stuff.
Creepy guy.
The Sword of Damocles is lifted from above Seth's head. He's just solved a problem that a mere thirty seconds ago seemed unsolvable. He knows exactly how he's going to cross the border. Whistling a happy tune, he turns and walks back into room #9.
You got three minutes. One second longer, I shoot your father in the face. Do you understand what I just said?
Yes.
Do you believe me?
Yes.
You damn well better. Go.
Yeah.
You must have a bible in here, don't cha?
Yeah, we got a bible.
Get it and bring it up here, will ya, please?
You're gonna let us go?
In the morning, darlin', in the morning, we are GONE and you are FREE. Now, I know I put you guys through hell, and I know I've been one rough pecker, but from here on end you guys are in my cool book. Scotty, help me pick Richie up, and lay him down. Jacob, keep going on this road till you get to a sign that says, "Digayo." When you get to Digayo, turn this big bastard left, go on down for a few miles, then you see a bar called "The Titty Twister." From what I hear, you can't miss it.
How about you, cutie pie? Ready for round two?
Okay.
Are you okay?
Peachy! Why shouldn't I be? The world's my oyster, except for the fact that I just rammed a wooden stake in my brother's heart because he turned into a vampire, even though I don't believe in vampires. Aside from that unfortunate business, everything's hunkydory.
I'm really sorry.
Bullshit! You hate us. If you had half a chance you'd feed us to them!
We have to go back for Daddy!
Daddy's dead.
Noooo!
Watch my back!
Anytime.
How many bullets left, kid?
Not many.
Well, when you run out of weapons, just start cold cocking 'em. Make 'em sing for their supper.
Should I use the last bullets on us?
You use 'em on the first couple of these parasites that try to bite you.
I'm sorry.
Me too.
See ya.
Later.
What's going on?
We're having a wet bikini contest, and you just won.
Richie, will you do me a favor and eat my pussy?
Sure.
What?
Where are you taking us?
Mexico.
What's in Mexico?
Mexicans.
What?
In the room. Were you serious, or were you just foolin' around? I'm just bringing it up, 'cause if you really want me to do that for you, I will.
Do what?
What you said to me in the room.
What did I say?
You asked me if I would 
It's the bitterest of pills.
You two ought to start a standup act, because you're just wasting your humor on me.
Ain't it the truth.
I just bet you would. Don't even think about it. Besides, I want to have one night's sleep in an honest togoodness bed. The beds in the home are okay, but they're not like a real bed.
Hey, if we go to a motel, we can swim.
Dad, when I called the machine to check our messages there was one from Bethel Baptist. Mr. Franklin said he wouldn't permanently replace you until we came back. He said when we come home, if you still feel the same way 
That's very nice of Ted, but I'll call him tomorrow and tell him not to bother waiting.
I didn't want to talk about this in front of Scott because he gets upset. But you don't believe in God anymore?
Not enough to be a pastor. Look, I know this is hard on you kids. After Jenny's death, this is probably the last thing you need. But I can't do it any longer. My congregation needs spiritual leadership. Well, they can't get that from me anymore. My faith is gone. To answer your question, yes, I do believe in Jesus. But do I love them? No. After Jenny died, I just thought, what's the point?
It's just, all our lives you've been a pastor. For twenty years you've preached trust in the lord. And then one day you wake up and say fuck him?
I didn't say fuck him. I'm just not connected anymore.
That happens, you'll get it back.
Kate, give your old man a little credit. Every person who chooses the service of God as their life's work has something in common. I don't care if you're a preacher, a priest, a nun, a rabbi or a Buddhist monk. Many, many times during your life you'll look at your reflection in the mirror and ask yourself, am I a fool? We've all done it. I'm not going through a lapse. What I've experienced is closer to awakening. I'm not trying to shake your faith. I've just decided not to devote my life to God anymore.
What do you think Mom would say?
Mom's got nothing to say, she's dead.
There's nothing wrong with this place.
It's a flop house.
It's not a flop house. It's basic and simple. That doesn't make it a flop house.
If it doesn't have a pool, we're looking for a new place.
It has a bed. That's all I care about.
Other places have beds, they also have cable TV, a gym, room service...
About two hours from now.
So all we have to do is get by for a few more hours and then we can walk right out the front door.
You're gonna be okay, aren't you, daddy?
No, I'm not. I've been bit. In effect, I'm already dead.
I promise.
Scott?
Kate, we don't have all day, so I'm only gonna count to five. One...two... three... four...
Okay, okay, I promise I'll do it!
Not good enough, swear to God.
I swear to God, our father, that when you change into one of the undead, I will kill you.
Good girl. Now, Scott, we have even less time, so I'm only giving you the count of three. One...
I'm going for 'em!
No!
Everybody goes home!
What's your name?
Jacob.
Okay, Jacob, get up and sit your ass down on the bed. Make a wrong move and I'll shoot you in the face.
What's the story with you two? You a couple of fags?
He's my son.
How does that happen? You don't look Japanese.
Neither does he. He looks Vietnamese.
Oh, well, excuse me all to hell.
What's this about, money?
It's about money, all right, but not yours. You see, me and my brother here are in a little hot water and we need your assistance.
It's okay, honey. Everything's going to be all right.
Just listen to daddy, sugar, and don't do nothin' stupid. You two, Simon says sit the fuck down!
Where are the keys to the motor home?
On the dresser.
Richie, take the keys. Start that big bastard up, and drive it up front.
Not a chance.
Come again?
If you're taking people, take me. But my kids aren't going anywhere with you.
Sorry, I need everybody.
My children are not going with you, and that's that.
That's not fuckin' that... this is fuckin' this. Go sit over there.
Yes.
Good. Your old man's all right, he just saved your life.
Jacob Fuller. Jacob, that's biblical, ain't it? What am I askin' for, of course it is. What are their names?
Scott and Kate.
Who's this?
My wife.
Where is the little lady?
In heaven.
She's dead?
Yes, she is.
How'd she die?
Auto wreck.
Come on, gimme some more details. How'd it happen? Some fuckin' drunk kill her?
No. It was a rainy night, the brakes on the car weren't great. She had to stop suddenly. She slid on the road, she crashed, she died.
Died instantly?
Not quite. She was trapped in the wreck for about six hours before she passed on.
Whewww! Those acts of God really stick it in and break it off, don't they?
Yes, they do.
Is this real?
Yes.
I've seen one of these before. A friend of mine had himself declared a minister of his own religion. Away to fuck the IRS. Is that what you're doing, or are you the real McCoy?
Real McCoy.
You're a preacher?
I was a minister.
Was? As in not anymore?
Yes.
Why'd ya quit?
I think I've gotten about as up close and personal with you as I'm gonna get. Now if you need me like I think you need me, you're not gonna kill me 'cause I won't answer your stupid, prying questions. So, with all due respect, mind your own business.
I seem to have touched a nerve. Don't be so sensitive, Pops, let's keep this friendly. But you're right, enough with the getting to know you shit. Now, there's two ways we can play this hand. One way is me and you go round an' round all fuckin' night. The other way, is we reach some sort of an understanding. Now, if we go down that first path at the end of the day, I'll win. But we go down the second, we'll both win. Now, I don't give a rat's ass about you or your fuckin' family. Y'all can live forever or die this second and I don't care which. The only things I do care about are me that sonofabitch in the back, and our money. And right now I need to get those three things into Mexico. Now, stop me if I'm wrong, but I take it you don't give a shit about seeing me and my brother receiving justice, or the bank getting its money back. Right now all you care about is the safety of your daughter, your son and possibly yourself. Am I correct?
Yes.
I thought so. You help us get across the border without incident, stay with us the rest of the night without trying anything funny, and in the morning we'll let you and your family go. That way everybody gets what they want. You and your kids get out of this alive and we get into Mexico. Everybody's happy.
How do I know you'll keep your word?
Jesus Christ, Pops, don't start with this shit.
You want me to sit here and be passive. The only way being passive in this situation makes sense is if I believe you'll let us go. I'm not there yet. You have to convince me you're telling the truth.
Look, dickhead, the only thing you need to be convinced about is that you're stuck in a situation with a coupla real mean motor scooters. I don't wanna hafta worry about you all fuckin' night. And I don't think you wanna be worrying about my brother's intentions toward your daughter all night. You notice the way he looked at her, didn't ya?
Yes.
Didn't like it, did ya?
No, I didn't.
Didn't think so. So, as I was saying, I'm willing to make a deal. You behave, get us into Mexico, and don't try to escape. I'll keep my brother off your daughter and let you all loose in the morning.
You won't let him touch her?
I can handle Richie, don't worry.
If he touches her, I'll kill him. I don't give a fuck how many guns you have, nothing will stop me from killing him.
Fair enough. You break your word, I'll kill all of you. Kate, honey!
Swear to God, on the Bible, you won't try to escape and you'll get us across the border.
I swear to God I won't try to escape and I'll do my best to get you into Mexico.
You best better get it done, Pops.
I'm telling you, don't hurt her.
As long as you're cool, she'll be cool. What're ya gonna say?
I don't have the slightest idea.
Well, you just keep thinkin' of that gun next to Kate's temple.
We did our part, we gotcha in Mexico. Now it's time for your part, letting us go.
Pops, when you're right, you're right, and you are right.
Then?
Then stop, 'cause that's where we're going.
Out of the stew pot and into the fire.
Shit, I been to bars make this place look like a fuckin' 4H club.
Who else?
Pass.
Why not, against your religion?
No, I do drink, I'm just not drinking now.
Suit yourself, more for me. Scotty?
Why are you so agitated?
I'm still stewing about that ape laying hands on me. And that fuckin' bartender sticks a weed up my ass, too.
He backed down.
He's smilin' at us. But behind his smile, he's sayin', "Fuck you Jack." I hear that loud and clear.
What are you going to do?
I'm gonna just sit here and drain this bottle. And when I've drunk the last drop, if I still feel then, the way I feel now, I'm gonna take this bottle and break it over his melon head.
Before we stepped in here, you told all of us to be cool. That means you, too.
I never said do what I do, I said do what I say.
Are you so much a fucking loser, you can't tell when you've won?
What did you call me?
Nothing. I didn't make a statement. I asked a question. Would you like me to ask it again? Very well. Are you such a loser you can't tell when you've won? The entire state of Texas, along with the FBI, is looking for you. Did they find you? No. They couldn't. They had every entrance to the border covered. There's no way you could get across. Did you? Yes, you did. You've won, Seth, enjoy it.
To your family.
To yours.
Now, is your shit together?
Forever together.
Okay, does anybody here know what's going on?
Yeah, I know what's going on. We got a bunch of fuckin' vampires outside trying to get inside and suck our fuckin' blood! That's it, plain and simple. And I don't wanna hear any bullshit about "I don't believe in vampires" because I don't fuckin' believe in vampires either. But I do believe in my own two fuckin' eyes, and with my two eyes I saw fuckin' vampires! Now, does everybody agree we're dealin' with vampires.
You too, preacher?
I'm like you. I don't believe in vampires, but I believe in what I saw.
Good for you. Now, since we all believe we're dealing with vampires, what do we know about vampires? Crosses hurt vampires. Do you have a cross?
In the Winnebago.
In other words, no.
I don't know about that. In order for it to have any power, I think it's gotta be an official crucifix.
What's an official cross? Some piece of tin made in Taiwan? What makes that official? If a cross works against vampires, it's not the cross itself, it's what the cross represents. The cross is a symbol of holiness.
Okay, I'll buy that. So we got crosses covered, moving right along, what else?
Did he...?
Yep.
You all are gonna fuckin' die! I'm gonna fuckin' kill every last one of you godless pieces of shit!
You bet your sweet ass you are, and I'm gonna help you do it. But we ain't got much time.
What's this stuff?
My guess is that this little dive's been feeding on nomad road waifs like bikers and truckers for a longtime. This is probably some of the shipments they stole off the trucks.
Well, I say lets tear this place apart for weapons. So when they burst through that door, we'll make 'em wish they never did.
I don't give a shit about living or dying anymore. I just want to send as many of these devils back to hell as I can.
Amen.
I promise.
Kate, Scott?
We got about two more hours of day light left. That'll get us into El Paso, which is right next to the border. We'll stop at a motel 
Stop? We're not going to actually stop at a motel, are we?
Unless you two wiseacres wanna be introduced to the joys of hitchhiking, what say we drop this?
The truth hurts.
Why do you want to stop?
I'm exhausted.
Lie in the back, Dad, I'll drive us into Mexico.
What's this guy's problem?
I have no idea.
What are you gonna do?
I'm gonna try and get us across the border.
No, dad, you gotta tell 'em that they're back there.
Have you forgotten about your sister?
They're gonna kill us. They get us across the border, they're gonna take us out in the desert and shoot us.
If they get over the border, they're gonna let us go.
Dad, I watch those reality shows. They never let anybody go. Any cop will tell you, in a situation like this, you get a chance, you go for it. This is our chance.
What about Kate?
They're gonna kill her anyway. At least now with all these cops we've got a fighting chance.
Son, I have this situation under control. I know exactly what I'm doing. You're going to have to trust me on this.
If trusting you means trusting those fuckin' killers, I can't do that. If you don't tell the cops, I will.
Now, you listen to me. You ain't gonna do a goddamn fucking thing, you hear me! Nobody cares what you think, I'm running this show, I make the decisions.
He's running the show.
I'm running the show. I make the plays, and you back the plays I make. Stop thinking with your fucking balls. Kate in a room with a couple of desperate men with nothing to fucking lose ain't the time to "go for it." I need your cover. Cover my ass.
You don't believe in suicide.
It's not suicide if you're already dead. Two...
Okay, I'll kill you when you change, I swear to God in Jesus Christ's name.
Thank you, son.
Why did they block the door again?
To keep the daylight out! This is where they sleep! Get to the door!
Whatsamatter with you? Are you crazy?
Why the fuck, outta all the god forsaken shit holes in Mexico, did you have us rendezvous at that place?
I don't know, one place's as good as another.
Have you ever been there before?
No, but I passed by it a couple of times. It's out in the middle of nowhere. It seems like a rowdy place, so there wouldn't be a lot of police. And it's open from dusk till dawn. You said meet you in the morning.
Well, because you picked that place out of a hat, my brother's dead now. And this girl's family's dead.
I'm sorry to hear that. What were they, psychos?
Did they look like psychos? They were fuckin' vampires. Psychos don't explode when sunlight hits 'em, I don't care how crazy they are.
Oh, Seth, how can I ever make it up to you?
You can't, but fifteen percent instead of thirty for my stay at El Ray is a good start.
Twentyeight.
Jesus Christ, Carlos, my brother's dead and he's not coming back, and it's all your fault. Twenty.
You like the car?
I said new, this is an '90.
It's hardly been used at all. I got it from a drug dealer who only drove it 5 times in as many years. Swear to God. That's like new.
So do I just follow you?
Yeah, follow us.
So let's do it.
Vamanos!
How many with you?
Just my son and I.
What is your purpose in Mexico?
Vacation. I'm taking him to see his first bullfight.
What was that?
Oh, that's just my daughter in the bathroom.
You said it was just you and your son.
I meant me, my son and my daughter.
Open the door. I'm coming aboard.
I told you not to buy that hunk of junk!
I think water got into the electrical system. You ride me back to camp? I'll get one of my counselors to drive me back tomorrow morning.
Why not?
Bad enough we got a full moon; it's Friday the 13th. They keep statistics. We get more accidents, more robberies, more rapes, more homicides, more of everything when there's a full moon. It affects people. Makes 'em nuts.
You've made a science out of coincidence.
Have to drop you here, Steve.
Sure.
Good luck.
Another coincidence.
Yeah.
Anything else you want?
No, thanks. I'm fine. Sandy.
You can't go back there tonight. Not in that stuff. 'Less you wanta get drownded.
I got to.
Aw.
I have six new counsellor up there. They're all babes in the woods in every sense of the word.
They'll be okay if they know enough to stay in outta the rain.
How much do I owe you?
One night on the town.
I mean...
...I know what you mean. Two and a quarter. Plus fifteen percent tip to make up for me spending the night alone.
Yeah. I got it on before this   all started.
That's thirty percent.
For two lonely nights.
Sex is all you ever think of, Neddy.
There you are dead wrong.
It's beautiful...
Yeah, and it also look like it hasn't seen a coat of paint in six years.
Cowboy.
Girls can't be cowboys.
Okay, Fireman.
Doctor. Now, if you were a flavor of ice cream, what would you be?
Rocky Road.
Last line of Gone With the Wind?
Frankly, Scarlet, I don't give a damn!
You okay?
Those things can be nasty.
Wait'll you're really in trouble and see what happens...
But it's in the brochure! "Camp Crystal Lake has a full drama program." You just saw it.
How about our last jay?
Good call.
Just a walk, for Chrissakes.
Boy, we sure do have a lot of filthy smallminded people around here. Wait a minute, I'll get my diaphragm and be right with you.
Wind's up. It's shifted a good hundred and eighty degrees.
Makes me want to hold on and never let go.
I love you.
I love you.
What about Neddy?
I don't love Neddy.
He keeps on acting like such an asshole!
Ned!
Don't call him.
I thought you wanted to give him one of your motherly lectures. Ned is gonna do whatever he wants to do, you know.
I guess...
Looks like a storm.
I'm a little scared of storms. Always have been. Since I was a kid.
You? The brick?
It's just a dream.
I call it my shower dream.
This is no dream. Want to escape for a while?
Lead the way!
Are you wet?
Just a little. Wait a minute, woman.
Mmmmmmmph?
Mmmmmmmph.
Best over...
Umhummmmph.
Like waves. It's never been likes waves before.
Whassamatta?
Gotta pee. You're lying on my bladder.
Ha!
Sometimes I only think about kissing women.
Ow!
I was just wondering if you thought there'd by any other gorgeous women at Camp Crystal Lake. Besides yourself.
What about the dope paragraph in Mr. Christy's letter?
Quote: Controlled substances are expressly forbidden. Possession or use of marijuana or alcohol on campgrounds will means instant dismissal. Unquote.
Jack?
Coach, athletic director somewhere.
It's gonna be a long summer.
Wait, wait! When I was finding these goodies in the shed. I also found this letter which a camper never sent home. Listen.
Steve taught me how to use the emergency generator. The town power lines are supposed to be real shitty.
God, but I love that macho talk! Emergency generators! The Indian used campfires.
Did anyone ever tell you you're beautiful when you're angry?
I don't believe you...
Want to see my trick shot? It's even better.
You ever fire one of those bows again, and I'll tack you up on the wall to dry.
God, but I love that sexy talk.
What do you want to be when you grow up?
Dancer.
Holy shit...
We wouldn't want you thinking you're the only showoff in camp, would we?
No wonder they lost America. How could you sneak around in the bushes wearing that? What's to eat?
Whatever you make yourself.
What hath God wrought?
That was the telephone.
Ha! You wily oriental! The phone was "Mr. Watson, come in here, I need you." "What hath God wrought" was the telegraph.
What the hell?
Where'd you get that stuff?
Give me a hand?
For sure.
This is almost like the one at my uncle's cabin in Maine.
Here we go.
I'll be okay. Holy shit...
Don't get up. Take a second...
You saved my life.
I had to.
Thanks.
I figured if I didn't save you. I'd have to give you mouthtomouth and that would have ruined my appetite.
Floor probably leaks. This area is full of springs.
A short somewhere.
What is it?
Is it stuck?
Roll him over!
Get behind him more.
Chance to get even?
I'll spot you five points.
You just had some lucky shots.
Where's Ned?
You said we were special.
I meant everything.
You know what I said, though.
I can't, Barry...
I wouldn't know.
Oh, you...
Claudette...
Somebody'll see.
No, they won't...
Somebody's there, Barry.
Come on, Claudette. A man's not made of stone.
Let's go back, Barry...
I need you so much, Claudette.
How come?
Some campers drowned. Then some counselors got killed.
I'll be along.
Don't burn that gorgeous body, or I'll scratch your eyes out...
I'm sorry.
Ned? We're gonna be working together for a while. You're a nice guy without all the entertainment, okay?
Sure.
I'm gonna go lie down and catch some z's. Today wiped me out. Thanks, Alice.
You're welcome.
Steve said for you to start on the boats.
I finished the boats.
Alice? The others show up?
Everybody except the girl who's supposed to handle the kitchen. Annie.
You think you're gonna last all summer?
I'm not sure I'll last all week. I'll tell Steve.
Steve said you were thinking of leaving. True?
Unhunh.
Oh, my God...
You okay?
How come you're leaving?
It's long and personal. It has nothing to do with you or the other kids.
Maybe I can help?
And it's this place. It makes no sense, but it spooks me.
You're right. It makes no sense.
Filmmaker.
Artist.
It still hurts?
I walked into it knowing I'd get hurt, but I thought I could stand anything. I just wasn't ready for that kind of pain. We were supposed to meet in L.A. When I got back there, he sent a telegram saying he was going back to his wife.
What'll you do when you leave here?
I don't know.
I didn't know I was asleep... What time is it?
Almost five.
You can only do what you can do.
And then Steve looks at you with those hurt eyes  like you don't care about children...
How the... did he get in there?
Slipped in. Probably liked the scent of your perfume.
Trouble?
Bad bulb or no power. It's getting a little gloomy in here.
Jack and Marcie are gonna be drenched.
Not if they're where I think they are.
It wouldn't matter except Steve should be getting back pretty soon. It wouldn't look so great if he fell over them.
Good point.
Well, it hasn't been that long.
Help you clean up?
Absolutely.
I don't hear it anymore.
Can't hear anything through that wind and rain.
It sounded like Brenda.
I'll go take a look.
Did somebody leave the lights on at the softball field?
Where?
They're off now.
I'll go check on Brenda.
Okay.
Jack?
Marcie?
Hey, guys!
It's dead. Try the pay phone.
Do you have a dime? A quarter?
No. There must be some in the desk somewhere.
What's the matter with it?
Wet. I don't know.
Why don't we run? Just run now?
It's over twenty miles to the crossroads. Steve'll be back in an hour. Things will straighten out then. We'll take his Jeep and get help.
Cabin B is ready.
Push on this side. Alice, this is Jack, Marcie and Ned. Push.
That's got her. Thanks. I'm Steve Christy. Welcome to Camp Crystal Lake. You got some grubby clothes? Climb into 'em. Alice, see if Bill has cleaned out the boathouse. I want him to start with the canoes. What happened to Brenda?
You told her to sweep the courts.
You draw very well.
Oh, thanks. I wish I could spend more time at it.
Any particular reason?
Just a feeling. Nothing personal.
You want to leave?
I don't know. Probably be best for everybody.
You may not care a lot about this place, Alice, but I mean to make it my whole life. It's been my whole life. Gimme a chance. Stay a week. Help get it ready. Next Friday, if you're not happy, I'll put you on the bus myself. I'll be grateful.
Next Friday.
Thanks, Alice.
I've got to go to town and pick up the trailer and all that other stuff, but I'll be back around ten. If you're still up, we can talk, okay?
Sure.
What'd you see?
I don't know. Marcie's got me paranoid.
Shows how much you know. It's something about tomorrow.
Tomorrow is another day.
Right! Right!
Melvin Belli.
I was careless.
I think we should go wake them up. Just in case.
Give them a little while longer. It's still early, anyway.
I guess...
Good night, Alice.
Good night, Brenda.
He's dead... She's dead... all dead... Please save me... oh... poor Bill... Oh my God, oh my God... oh God...
It will be all right. I'll take care of you.
Jack? Marcie? Ned?
It's just this place. The storm. That's why you're all upset.
No, no, they're all dead...
So young, so pretty. What monster could have done such a thing?
Bill  Bill  Bill is out there...
The killer is still out there.
I will protect you.
We should go now.
Maybe we should wait for Mr. Christy.
You're awake. I've prepared some broth. It'll help restore you.
I'm... dying.
Frostbite. Gangrene. A simple diagnosis.
Are you a physician?
How is it you come to be here?
There's a startling question, coming from you. I'm captain of this ship. We sailed from Archangel a month ago, seeking a passage to the North Pole.
Ah. An explorer.
Wouldbe. I'm plagued with my share of difficulties just at the moment.
I heard.
I can't say I blame them. We're trapped in this ice and bedeviled by some sort of... creature.
Creature? A... human like creature?
You know of it?
Your men are right to be afraid.
Then explain it, whatever it is. It could save the voyage. I've spent years planning this. My entire fortune.
You'd persist at the cost of your own life? The lives of your crew?
Lives are ephemeral. The knowledge we gain, the achievements we leave behind... those live on.
Do you share my madness?
Madness?
We are kindred, you and I. Men of ambition. Let me tell you all that I have lost in such pursuits. I pray my story will come to mean for you all that is capricious and evil in man.
Who are you?
My name is Frankenstein...
Professor Waldman.
Victor, explain yourself.
Krempe has a way of provoking my temper.
You have a way of provoking his. I've been watching you. You seem impatient with your studies.
To say the least. I came here to expand my mind, but honest inquiry seems strangled at every turn. All we do is cling to the old knowledge instead of seeking the new.
You disdain accepted wisdom?
No, I embrace it... as something to be used or discarded as we advance the boundaries of what is known.
Preposterous.
I once saw it done, as a boy in Canton. My parents were missionaries. The cure was nothing short of miraculous. I've never forgotten it. Been fascinated ever since.
Electricity.
It's utterly fantastic! This is the sort of thing I'm talking about! We should be learning this!
Why? God alone knows what it means. Until it has proven value, it's nothing more than a ghoulish parlor trick. Hardly fit for the classroom.
But the possibilities. Combining ancient knowledge with new? Something like this could change our fundamental views!
It is a thrilling direction to explore. Thrilling and dangerous. Nature can be wonderful and terrible. Science is not a realm for the reckless; it needs a conscience. We must proceed cautiously. Assess as we go. What I do on my own time is my own business. The same holds true for you. You wish to expand your mind? Fine, do so. You can even join me here, if you like. But not at the expense of your normal studies.
I doubt that decision is still mine to make.
Nonsense. Tonight you will draft an apology to Professor Krempe...
"...a sincere and heartfelt apology which you will then read aloud to him before the assembled student body and faculty.
Why?
Our profession needs talent like yours. Destroy your career over an issue of pride? What a waste.
Reconfigure the leads?
Numbers four and twelve directly into the nervous system?
Victor. He was trying to be gracious.
The strain was evident.
I tell you what we need, my friends. Forget the symptoms and diseases. What we need is a vaccine for death itself.
Oh, now you have gone too far. There's only one God, Victor.
In science, the letter of fact is the letter of law. Our pursuit is as dogmatic as any religious precept. Think of yourselves as disciples of a strict and hallowed sect. Someday you may be priests... but only if you learn the scripture chapter and verse. Any questions?
But surely, Professor, you don't intend we disregard the more... philosophical works.
Philosophical?
Those which stir the imagination as well as the intellect. Paracelsus, for one.
Paracelsus?
Or Albertus Magnus. Cornelius Agrippa...
What is your name?
Victor Frankenstein, sir. Of geneva.
Of Geneva. Tell me, Mr. Frankenstein of Geneva. Do you wish to study medicine? Or mysticism?
You seem to be adapting well to the approved curriculum.
Despite the lack of challenge.
Yes. I took refuge in the barn. Wouldn't you? Lost in the storm? Freezing and wet? I was exhausted and could search no longer.
And is it true, Miss Moritz, that you love Victor Frankenstein? That your heart was broken? Answer the question. Do you love Victor Frankenstein?
I have always loved him.
Is it also not true that you murdered his brother William in a misdirected crime of passion?
Murder Willie? In my heart, he was our child. Victor's and mine. Such a thing could never have entered my mind.
So you have claimed. Yet you have no explanation for this. The locket last seen in the hands of the poor murdered child was found hidden in your dress the morning following the murder. The locket you so coveted. How did it come to be in your possession?
I have no knowledge of that.
I was just clearing my throat.
Very well then.
I am not mad.
As a march hare.
Are you having me on?
Of course I am. It pays to humor the insane.
Henry Clerval.
Victor, Victor Frankenstein.
I know. You have a way of making an impression.
Do you really think I'm mad?
Come now. Magnus? Agrippa? Next thing you know, you'll be teaching toadstools to speak.
Rich old ladies and their daughters?
Can you think of a better reason?
Quite a few.
Do me a favor then... ...keep them to yourself.
The entire school heard it. It wasn't something one could miss.
You're a comfort to me, Henry.
What now? Writing about it in your journal won't help.
It's a letter to my father.
Now you've got him started.
These are exciting times, Henry. We're entering an era of amazing breakthroughs. Look at Edward Jenner. He wasn't content to bleed people with leeches, he pioneered a new frontier of thought
...yes, and thanks to him, smallpox has been virtually eliminated. I've heard this speech before.
But you haven't listened, Never in history has so much seemed possible. We're on the verge of answers undreamt of... but only if we have the courage to ask the questions.
Only you would think of that!
Somebody has to!
And here's to Him. Everything in moderation, Frankenstein.
Nothing in moderation, Clerval.
They just caught the man who did it.
He was a frightened soul who acted out of fear and ignorance.
They'll hang him all the same.
Good. I'll be there to hear his worthless neck snap.
Keep your voice down. You don't know what you're saying.
It was wrong, Henry! It shouldn't have happened! The bastard deserves to die.
You're making a scene!
Why Waldman? He of all people should have cheated death!
You can't. Death is God's will!
I resent God's monopoly.
That's blasphemy!
Blasphemy be damned! Waldman spent his life trying to help people!
All the more reason for us to continue his work with the poor!
No. He had more important work.
There are sick people who need our help. Here and now. Not in some future time. Consider that.
Victor. This has got to stop. Nobody's seen you in months. You haven't attended a single class.
I've been preoccupied.
We all know how hard you took Waldman's death. Even Krempe is sympathetic. But it is time to move on. It is time to concern yourself with life.
That is my concern. I'm involved in something just now. I want to finish it in Waldman's memory.
How much longer?
Few months perhaps. I'm gathering the raw materials even now.
This is a bad time, Henry. I'm busy just now. What do you want?
Things have gone worse with this cholera outbreak. Thousand new cases a day now. Classes have been suspended. University's shut down.
Yes? And?
Listen to what I'm saying. The militia's arriving to quarantine the city. Most of us are getting out while we still can.
You'll be leaving then. Just as well. You never were cut out for this, Henry. Goodbye.
Thank God your fever broke. Slowly, now. Just a sip. I've been worried we might lose you. It's been touchandgo for a week.
A... week?
We feared cholera. Turned out to be pneumonia, brought on by nervous exhaustion and some idiot running around in a storm.
Is that your diagnosis?
Mine and Professor Krempe's. We've been trading off nursing you in shifts. The rest of the time we're out working with the cholera victims. It's his turn for that just now.
You've been going roundtheclock?
We catch a few hours sleep where we can. Usually here at your bedside.
Everything in moderation, Clerval.
Nothing in moderation, Frankenstein.
It's the downandouts I pity most. Those who can't fend for themselves. They'll be dead by the thousands before this is done. They don't stand a chance out there.
No. They don't.
Victor. This place looked like a charnel house. What went on here?
Quite a place.
Thank you, Henry.
For what?
This. My home. My family. If not for you, I'd be dead in a burial pit somewhere.
What happened up there?
I didn't find what I was looking for.
Are you sure you'll be all right?
Yes, don't worry. I'll look after your father. You look after her.
I'll be back as soon as I've got her far away and safe. We'll hunt this fiend down together.
Only if you'll tell me who he is.
I owe you that. Done.
All that I once loved lies in a shallow grave. By my hand.
Let it go.
I'm quite serious. Look at all the charity and clinic work we do. Up until thirty years ago, the concept of vaccine was unheard of.
You're saying all disease will eventually be eradicated?
I'm convinced. Not by treating symptoms, but by diving nature's most jealouslyguarded secrets.
Do you foresee this happening in our lifetimes?
No. But someday.
Thank goodness. We'd be out of work.
Professor?
Oh God.
It's going to ram us.
It wouldn't dare.
Captain, I implore you. The men are frightened and angry. They want your assurance.
They knew the risks when they signed on. I've come too far to turn back now.
Then you run the danger of pushing them to mutiny.
A warming wind.
This ice will break yet. How's our guest?
He died. Raving about phantoms. He was mad, poor devil. Gather a detail. Have the body removed from my cabin.
Aye, Captain.
Don't cry, Elizabeth.
Aren't you?
Are you sure it can't hurt us?
Nothing can. Not ever.
How could all my father's knowledge and skill fail to save her?
It's not ours to decide. All that live must die. It's God's will.
What kind of God is He to will this?
She was mother to me as well. But ours is the job of the living. It's up to us now to hold this family together. We must think of Father and be strong for him. I cannot do that alone.
God took her from us.
He left a beautiful gift in her place. A baby boy. To cherish and love as our very own. Your brother
Victor, have a care! You'll make him dizzy!
The world is a dizzying place.
Oh, do give him here! He needs to be comforted and held!
He needs to vent his outrage to the skies! Make yourself heard, Willie! Learning to walk is not an easy thing! Why should it be so?
Don't listen, Willie. Progress is a feast to be consumed. Women would have you believe you must walk before you can run. Or run before you can waltz!
Give me that child before you fill his head with drivel!
Smell the air. Wonderful.
Quite a sendoff, isn't it?
Father's so proud.
And you?
Prouder still. You'll be the handsomest student there.
I'll have to do better than that.
You will. What do you want, Victor?
To be the best there ever was. To push our knowledge beyond our dreams... to eradicate disease and pestilence... to purge mankind of ignorance and fear...
I've loved you all my life
All my life I've known.
This feels... incestuous.
Is that what makes it so delicious?
Brother and sister still?
I wish to be your husband.
I wish to be your wife.
Then come with me to Ingolstadt. Marry me now.
If only I could. But one of us must stay. Father's not strong. Willie's just a child. Who can look after them in your absence? Who can run the estate?
Only you.
I will be here when you return.
You make me weak.
Not as weak as I.
Our decision. Together.
Your decision. For us.
I give you my soul...
...until our wedding night. When our bodies will join.
Victor. I love you,
Elizabeth. My more than sister.
My mind was not playing tricks. He was there in the storm... gloating over his crimes... challenging me to come.
But why risk yourself? Hasn't this family suffered enough?
I've no choice
If what you say is true, it is a matter for the police!
They've done a fine job. Hanging an innocent for the crime of a fiend.
Do you know this man? Is there something between you?
I know only that he is a killer. And I shall bring back his carcass.
I thought I'd never see you again!
I'm all right. I'm safe,
What sort of task?
It's not something I can explain now. Perhaps someday.
What of our marriage? Victor, we've had so much tragedy. I want this family to live again.
So do I.
We need each other now, I need your comfort and strength, not separation and solitude.
A month at most, that's all I ask. Elizabeth, please. Things have not yet resolved. I must take steps to see that they do. For our family's sake. For our sake. You are life itself. We shall seal our vow. The moment I am done.
No. Not tomorrow, not next week, Marry me today.
Why the change? What about your work?
It was misguided and pointless. Is your answer yes?
It is
We'll leave this afternoon, right after the ceremony. Pack only what you need.
Does this have something to do with that man you saw?
Yes. We're in danger here. Every moment we stay.
Victor, tell me why! Trust me!
I do. But you must trust me for now.
Brother and sister no more.
Now husband and wife.
I remember the first time I ever saw you. Crossing the floor of the grand ballroom with my parents at your side. So beautiful even then.
I have been waiting for this ever since.
Victor!
Open this door for noone!
He always was opinionated.
He set things right with a proper apology... and now they've put him in charge of dissection lab!
What does it say?
Let this locket be a token of the vow we took the night I left. He's coming home to marry me.
Have you seen Willie?
Is he not back yet?
Claude rode over there to see if held lost track of time. They say he never arrived.
It's far too late for him to still be out.
Poor William! What indignant tears!
There, there... shhh...
That's the nature of all progress, William. Don't let your brother sway you otherwise.
Quite right!
Elizabeth, really! He's quite mad!
Scandalous! What would your dear mother say?
Onetwothree, onetwothree, twirl twothree...
You dance so beautifully together.
And you look so lovely.
Must've been a terrible row.
He was almost expelled for calling one of his professors a "pompous... Fellow..."
Nothing. Still nothing.
It's been months. It's not like him.
Something's wrong. I know it. I've heard rumors of cholera spreading south from Hamburg.
So have I
I should go. I should leave today.
Elizabeth. If it's true, travel into Germany would be banned. You'd never get near Ingolstadt. Besides, they're only rumors.
And not a word of them to Father. He's agitated enough not hearing from Victor.
Read him one of the old letters and rephrase it. We'll say it came today. It'll set his mind at ease.
Are you all right?
Fine.
Come warm yourself if you like.
You speak.
Yes, I speak. And read. And think... and know the ways of Man. I've been waiting for you. Two months now.
How did you find me?
The letters in your journal. That and a geography book. Your Elizabeth sounds lovely.
Kill me and have done with it.
Kill you? Hardly that.
Then why am I here? What did you want with me?
More to the point, why am I here? What did you want with me? What does one say to one's Maker, having finally met him face to face? Milton gave it voice. Did I request thee, Maker, from my clay to mould me Man? Did I solicit thee from Darkness to promote me?
Fine words from a child killer. You who murdered my brother.
Your crime... as well as mine.
How dare you. You're disgusting and evil.
Evil? Do you believe in evil?
I see it before me.
I'm not sure I believe. But then I had no one to instruct me. I had no mother... and my father abandoned me at birth.
Why, Victor? Why? What were you thinking?
There was something at work in my soul which I do not understand.
What of my soul? Do I have one? Or was that a part you left out? Who were these people of which I am comprised? Good people? Bad people?
Materials. Nothing more.
You're wrong. Do you know I knew how to play this?
In which part of me did this knowledge reside? In these hands? In this mind? In this heart? And reading and speaking. Not things learned... so much as things remembered.
Trace memories in the brain, perhaps.
Stolen memories. Stolen and hazy. They taunt me in my dreams. I've seen a beautiful woman lying back and beckoning for me to love her. Whose woman was this? I've seen boys playing, splashing about in a stream. Whose childhood friends were these? Who am I?
I don't know.
Then perhaps I believe in evil after all.
What can I do?
There is something I want. A friend.
Friend?
A companion. A female. Like me, so she won't hate me.
Like you? Oh, God, you don't know what you're asking.
I do know that for the sympathy of one living being, I would make peace with all. I have love in me the likes of which you can scarcely imagine. And rage the likes of which you would not believe. If I cannot satisfy the one, I will demonically indulge the other. That choice is yours. You're the one who set this in motion, Frankenstein.
And if I consent?
We'd travel north, my bride and I. To the furthest reaches of the Pole, where no man has ever set foot. There we would live out our lives. Together. No human eye would ever see us again. This I vow.
Soon?
Yes. I want this over and done with.
I'll be waiting. And watching.
Why... her?
Her body pleases me.
What is this?
A brain. Extremities.
This was not taken from a grave.
What does it matter? She'll live again. You'll make her.
No. I draw the line.
You will honor your promise to me!
I will not! Kill me now!
That is mild compared to what will come. If you deny me my wedding night. I'll be with you on yours.
She's beautiful.
She's not for you.
I'm sure the lady knows her own mind. Doesn't she? Let her decide the proper suitor.
GET AWAY FROM HER! SHE'S MINE!
SHE'LL NEVER BE YOURS! SHE SAID MY NAME! SHE REMEMBERS!
Nice.
The music? Or the fire?
I'm glad you finally came to the door. A man shouldn't have to scurry in the shadows.
Better that way... for me.
Why?
I'm... very, very ugly. People are afraid. Except you.
It can't be as bad as that.
Worse.
You're an outcast.
Yes. I have been seeking my friends.
Friends? Do they live around here?
Yes. Very close
Why do you not go to them?
I have been... afraid. Afraid... they will hate me... because I am so very ugly... and they are so very beautiful
People can be kinder than you think.
I am afraid.
You were with him at the end.
Yes.
I was watching.
I longed to be with him. But I wanted his final moments to have peace. I could see you were a friend to him.
What is that to you? Evil as you are.
I am as he made me. In his own image.
You drove him to his torment.
And he drove me to mine.
Then why weep for him?
Would you not? He was father. And mother. We fell from grace together. He from his God. I from mine.
I've never been shown a kindness. Show me one now.
What kindness?
Build for him a pyre. Light up the sky with his passing.
I don't know why they even bother. She's had enough of this to knock sense into a bull elephant.
Yeah?
I checked the files. This one holds the record for shock treatments. Four hundred seventeen and no end in sight.
You're kidding.
Yeah, well, you know doctors. They sure hate to use that word.
What?
'Incurable.'
And do you think it's radical for a man to have a job and feed a family?
No!
Is it radical for you to have a hand in shaping your future, and the future of your children?
No!
Is it radical for the wealth of this country to be turned back to the people who built the country?
No! No!
Good! Because, Brothers, that's you!
I find these initial meetings to be much easier without the concerned relatives in attendance.
Am I supposed to say 'thank you'?
Thanks are hardly necessary.
Aw, shucks, ma'am. T'weren't nothin'.
I'm glad to see you haven't lost your sense of humor.
It ain't for lack of trying.
So it seems. May we be serious for a moment?
Why, Doctor! We've only just met!
Oh! Are you really?
Among persons such as yourself, creative people under great stress, erratic behavior is not at all uncommon and certainly nothing to be ashamed of. It's just that the neuroses which fuel your talent can also generate certain character disabilities which...
Do you expect me, for one moment, to believe you have greater insight into my personality than I do?
Please sit down...
You may discuss my predicament, Doctor. You may discuss it with anyone you like, but not with me. I'm not interested. I can solve my problems without recourse to a veternarian.
I see.
Besides, I don't want to be what you want to make me.
And what's that?
Normal. Average.
All right. Will you please sit down now? Symington says.
...Did you really say that?
Just a little joke, Miss Farmer.
This whole thing is a joke!
Stay calm, please.
No, you stay calm, Doctor! But you're finding that difficult, aren't you? Why, are you attracted to me? Perhaps later, in some of our more intimate sessions... after we know each other a little better... and you've torn my personality to shreds, and I'm weeping and vulnerable... then you'll really get your kicks, won't you, "Doctor?"
I'll have someone show you to your room.
Oh, that's good, very professional. In control. But the tiny beads of sweat on your upper lip give you away.
Is there something else?
You didn't say 'Symington says'.
...I'm sorry to keep you waiting, the staff review ran over. Did you enjoy your mother's visit?
Yes. It was very good to see her.
Really? Any problems?
Not at all. She brought me my fan mail. I had no idea there were so many strangers concerned about me. But I guess that's the best thing about working in the movies. You make so many friends. I want to go back and show them that the faith they put in me wasn't a mistake.
You're telling me you feel guilty.
No... What I mean is... I'm just very excited by the prospect of getting on with my life, that's all.
Do you really believe your mother's trying to kill you?
What?
She told me you said, "Mama, you want to kill me."
I never said... Oh look. That's just a figure of speech. She said something funny, and I said...
And you accused her of tampering with your mail.
Oh for Christ's...
I'm sorry. She misunderstood, that's all.
But you tell me you had a pleasant visit and your mother says you were sullen and uncommunicative. Whom do you think I should believe?
Doctor, I hate to break this to you, but my mother is a little batty.
Frances, you're still filled with anxiety. You feel guilty and hostile toward your family and friends. Consequently, I didn't recommend your release at the staff review.
You what?
Mental illness is an elusive thing, and though I'm pleased you're feeling more... capable, it's perhaps unrealistic to expect you to be completely cured after so short a time. Don't you agree?
I'm sure you'll see it my way in the end.
Dr. Symington, how big is your dick?
Huh?
'Cause if it's long enough, which I doubt, why don't you wrap it around and fuck yourself in the ass!
I want outta here, you understand? I'm ready to get out! So you go back there... you go back and you tell them to let me out!
Frances, I'm warning you...
No, I'm warning you! Who do you think you are, God? You bumble around with your folders... ...and your pencils... ...and your goddamn buttons... ...all your badges of authority! But you have no authority! You're nothing! You're a zero!
Symington says...
Sedate her.
On behalf of the Seattle Ladies Club, as a token of our vast admiration 
Excuse me.
Yes...?
Don't I know you?
I don't believe so.
Sure. You shouted at me in the auditorium when I read my essay.
No, my dear. You must be mistaken.
Oh bullshit.
Mama...
I'm not hungry. You two just enjoy yourselves. After all, this is a celebration.
Don't listen to him, little sister. When you're proud of what you are, you don't refuse the label, understand?
Yes, Ma.
And you... should be proud. You won that contest and made a name for yourself.
But they're using you!
Oh Ma, they're not using me. It's just a chance to travel, see things. Besides, it's the only way I can get to New York.
I'll pay your way to New York. I'll work, I'll slave. I'll sell my vegetables to the truck farmers, or 
Oh, Mama, don't you understand?
It isn't in your hands, Mama. It's my life.
Yes, but important people are concerned about this. Judge Hillier spoke to Alma Styles 
I don't care.
...You will.
It's okay.
Smile, little sister, smile.
It's alright now, little sister, everything's going to be just fine.
Mama, what's...
Shhh, shhh. You're not going to jail, Frances. The Judge has put you under my care. I'll see you get the rest you need.
You're taking me home!
Tell them who I am! Tell them who I am!
Are you crazy? Unhand that woman! That's Amelia Earhart!
And here's one from nice Mr. Zeiss. He says that...
Why are these all opened?
Well, they needed immediate answers, Frances. It's good manners and good sense. You shouldn't be bothering yourself with these right now.
Then why did you bring them?
It's your fan mail, little sister.
You kill me, Mama.
What?
Go on...
Well, who have we here...?
Frances, you remember my lawyer, Alma Styles?
Oh Mama, I'm so... tired of that song.
Please. I want you to. It would make me so happy.
I think I need a little air.
What's wrong?
Nothing. I think I'll just go out for awhile.
Where are you going?
For a walk, Mama. Just a walk.
How long will you be?
Not long.
I'll have lunch ready by one.
I'll be back.
At one. Promise?
Sure.
Say you promise.
I promise I'll... I promise, Mama.
You know, the surest way to lose an appetite, is to drink, little sister.
Yes, Mama.
I don't want you drinking, Frances.
Yes, Mama.
I'm back, Mama.
Oh Frances, do I have news for you! Guess who 
Wait, Mama, wait. I have something to tell you. I've decided... well... I'm not going to make movies anymore. I thought that's what I wanted, and I went after it with all my soul, the way you taught me, but I was miserable, Mama, and it nearly killed me. So now... now it's over. I want a different kind of life, something... simple. I want to live someplace quiet and peaceful... in the country maybe, and I'll have dogs and cats  I feel so light suddenly, so clear for the first time in... It's going to be okay, Mama, I know it. And I love you.
Don't... talk crazy.
Mama...?
They want you back! Your agent called today! Don't you understand? He's sending the scripts. He wants to fly up here in a week with the publicity people! Frances, you can't do this to your fans! Why, they've been praying for you all through this nightmare. You can't turn your back on them now! Look at this fan mail I've been answering!
Haven't you heard what I said?
I told him to come up! I told him you wanted to show them all that there's nothing wrong with you any more, that you're completely cured!
I'm not cured. I was never sick! They had no business putting me in there! My only responsibility is to myself now!
You... you selfish, selfish child. At least talk to him, hear what he has to say.
No!
You want to throw it all away, is that it? You had everything, little sister. Beauty... a brilliant career... a wonderful husband. You were a movie star!
Mama, shut up!
And now you're throwing everything away? You're gonna be a nobody! Nobody! You know what that's like?!
You... You'd send me back, wouldn't you? You would.
Where are you going?
I'm going out!
You're not going anywhere!
Yes, I am, and you can't stop me! You can't tell me what to do, mother. I'm a grown woman, and I can decide about my own life.
Frances!
Of course, she hasn't anything definite in mind.
No. No, it all depends on what offers I get.
Oh, just leave those things for now.
No, Mama, I'll take care of it. I'll wash them in the morning.
You know, little sister, I never resented you for refusing to see me in the... the hospital. I knew you had to manage on your own before you could come back.
Thank you for understanding, Mama.
Little sister, I don't want you to feel any rush to get back to work. I want you to rest... for a while anyway.
I will, I promise.
Do I go right away or do I have time to take a bath?
I was hoping for a kind word, little sister.
You were hoping for a kind word?! You're my mother! You're supposed to nourish me! Support me!
I have!
No! All you've done is try to break my spirit, try to turn me into you! But I'm not you, mother, and I never will be, and thank god for it! That goes for you too! And frankly, I don't know how, with the two of you, I turned out as sane as I am  Wait right there, gentlemen, I'll be with you in a minute... and believe me, I don't want to stay here one second longer than I have to! But I've got to tell you, Lillian, that one day before you die, you will realize what you've done and hang your head in shame. In shame!
But what 
No! You're not talking now. You listen. You can send me away, Lillian, you can pretend I'm crazy and pretend I'm still your little girl who can't take care of herself, but one thing you can't pretend anymore. You can't pretend I love you because I don't. I can't. Not after what you've done to me. Because you see... I'm still me... I'm trying real hard all this time to be me... and you, 'little sister', you haven't been any help at all. Okay, boys, I'm ready.
And what's the title of this seduc... assault?
'Golden Boy.'
That's me, Clifford.
I know, but I'm not seeing it. It's there, Frances, the fire is there, but it's not coming through. You're lazy 
I'm not!
Yes, you win them, you bring them into your heart, touch them, but you don't set them on fire!
But I want to. I'm trying!
I need an incendiary! An arsonist!
Then show me! That's what I'm here for, to learn, to grow!
Good. Then it's very simple. You have to stop being afraid, Frances. It's in you.
'But how do I know you love me?'
Your big speech?
'How do I know it's true? You'll get to be the champ. They'll all want you, all the girls! But I don't care. I've been undersea a long time. When they'd put their hands on me I used to say, "This isn't it! This isn't what I mean!" It's been a mysterious world for me! But Joe, I think you're it! I don't know why, I think you're it. Take me home with you.'
I already have.
How's it sound?
The speech? Real good.
You think I got it?
You got it.
Yeah. Yeah, tonight I think I got it.
What happened? Who're you?
Who're you?
I live here.
You're Farmer? Oh... Well, look, they took your stuff out. Moved it to some hotel, I think.
What?
I'm preparin' it for the next tenant, he's coming in tomorrow.
...Is that not true?
Who's writing this guy's lines?
Answer the question! Have you driven a car since you were placed on probation?
No, I couldn't get my hands on one.
Have you reported to your Probation Officer as directed?
I never saw him. Why didn't he show up?
Did you expect him to look you up?
Why, certainly. I wanted to get a peek at his face...
You're on your way to a contempt citation, young lady.
That's fine with me... Get it? Fine. A fine! Hey c'mon, c'mon, what is this, an audience or a jury?
Miss Farmer, is it true you fought with the policeman who arrested you last night?
Sure it's true. I was fighting for my country as well as myself.
Miss Farmer, you were advised at the last hearing that if you took one drink of liquor or failed to be a lawabiding citizen 
Miss Farmer! In light of your flagrant disregard for the conditions of your probation, coupled with the unwarranted assault on the Plaintiff here... I am forced to order you to begin serving a sentence of 180 days in the County Jail.
Fine!
You are a deeply troubled young lady... I only hope you change your course before it's too late.
Pretty morning.
It's always beautiful at this time. Peaceful...
And no people.
Yes.
Where you goin'?
Wherever they're going, I'm going.
Yeah, I know what that's like... Where you been?
Well, I was picking fruit with some migrant workers until...
Yeah.
What'd you do?
You know, I've never been able to figure that out.
Shit!
Run!
Momma told ya not to speak to strangers, huh? Hey!
Don't touch me.
I'm not gonna hurt you. I just wanna talk.
Okay then...
Well... you're causin' trouble, you know that?
I'm causing trouble?! You're a pain in the butt! You newshounds've been after me and my folks ever since I won that dumb contest. I'm just sixteen, you know? Who the hell cares what I think?
Not me. But other people seem to.
Yeah. Well if you didn't put it in the papers  nobody'd even know about it.
Now wait a minute, sweetie. Do I look like a newshound to you?
No... Actually, you look more like a cop.
I'll... take your word for it. So who are you, then?
Harry York. I work for Martoni Kaminski, he's running for Congress here.
Oh yeah! I saw you in the newsreel!
Yeah, well 
You know, my Dad's done some work for Kaminski...
Now you're catchin' on. Don't wanna get your Daddy in hot water, do you?
Whattaya mean?
Well... see the papers've got us pegged as pinkos, then you come along, the friendly neighborhood atheist 
But I'm not. The newspapers're 
Right again. You're no more an atheist than my man's a Red, but what they're doin', see, they're addin' up their version of your ideas with their version of ours. Could look bad for your Daddy.
Yeah. Could look bad for you and Kaminski too, I guess.
Sure don't talk like you're sixteen.
Well aren't you the smoothie. Now you're going to ask for my number, I suppose.
I suppose not. Gotta ask you this, though: for all our sakes, you better keep your trap shut.
Well... I'll give it a try, Mr. York.
Harry.
Harry.
Hi, Harry. Did you see the play?
You think I'd miss it?
Well? What'd you think?
I just wanted to see how you looked.
How'd I look?
Enh.
Don't be a rat, Harry.
You looked okay. Joint's pretty dead. How 'bout I take you home?
Honest. When you were up there, you were really... there, know what I mean? Everyone else looked stupid.
I don't know... I did... feel different... Alive.
Yeah, it's a gift. You gotta do something with it.
Yeah, but if I win this trip, Mama'll kill me. She hates Russians. I do want to go, though... to New York, especially... but I wanted to do it...
What?
Quietly.
You're not the quiet type, Frances.
You know, my old man was an inventor. Spent his whole life down in the basement trying to design transcontinental underground railroads, stuff like that. Well, I was supposed to be his partner. When I told him the smell of his workshop made me sick, I thought he was going to die right there.
What happened to him?
He retired to Florida... made a killing in vending machines.
I kick myself sometimes, but the thing is, I would have been miserable living his life.
...So you think I should go.
Sure. Try this acting thing. You can make good money at it.
I don't know, Harry. I... I want so many...
You don't know what you want.
Yeah.
Frances...
What?
Well... don't you think it's up to me to...
Come on, Harry. This is America, land of the free. I thought we might go skinny dipping. For starters.
How ya doin', Farmer?
Me? Look at you! What're you doing in Hollywood?
Came to get a tan.
Not bad. But come on, Harry; what's the real reason?
Kaminski.
Yeah, I read about that. Terrible business, suicide.
Since when do you believe the papers? They killed him, kid.
What?
They killed him. They threw him out that window.
Oh no...
Eight stories.
Jesus.
Yup. Poor bastard lay there on the sidewalk and he couldn't die. Too god damn much heart. He just didn't want to die.
But... but why, Harry...? Why'd they do it?
He wouldn't play ball. What can I tell ya... it's done. Anyway, I didn't want to be next, so I skipped town; came down here to work for some bigwig. Tail and nail job. I'm sort of a nongentleman's non gentleman. How d'ya like the camouflage?
You jackass! C'mon, let's get out of here.
Not bad. It was slow at first, but I'm doing bits now.
I always told ya, Frances. You got real ability.
I know what ability you're interested in.
Hey, I'm a man, aren't I? Whattaya say we have dinner, then maybe head out to the beach, rub some of this tan off each other. For old time's sake.
Harry... I met someone.
Yeah? What is he  muscleman? Lifeguard?
Serious, huh?
Yeah.
Hey that's great, Farmer, just great.
Shit. I meant the other way around.
Well, the studio told me not to.
Is that why you did it?
Who ever thought they'd be right for once? Jesus, Harry... it's a zoo back there 
You're telling me.
Dick... and my mother! She acts like she's on Mars or something 
Well, she's back to earth now. They're all pretty huffed up about your leaving. I think you better go back, kid.
Forget it.
You know, the funny thing is: it's not a great movie. I mean it could've been, but they screwed it up, gave it a happy ending. And all my friends, I know they're going to smile and say they loved it.
If they say they love it, they'll probably love it. Not everybody lies, you know?
No, they don't, do they?
Frances, you're a movie star now. If you give them what they want, you can get anything.
I don't have what they want, Harry. Harry, will you tell me something? How can I keep making movies when people in the streets are starving?
Some people starve, kid. Until we can do something about it, they might as well see a movie. Makes 'em feel better.
But I don't want to be like that. I want to do something...
What're you gonna do, waste your talent? Why not use it to make something worthwhile. You can do that, you know?
Yeah, if I don't make too big an ass of myself.
Tell you what. Let's ditch the limo. Let me drive you up to that red carpet in my beat up Chevy.
The hell you will, Harry York.
Come on, Cinderella, your pumpkin awaits.
Don't start, Farmer.
It's midnight, Harry. My glittering raiments are dissolving.
The chauffeur. He's watching.
He deserves a show. He missed the movie.
I'm serious, Frances. This is important.
I know.
Harry? Harry, where are you?!
Jesus, Frances, how'd you find me?
I called your goddamned office! I want you to kill him, Harry. You'll do that for me, won't you? I loved him, I loved him... that bastard.
Calm down, Frances.
Don't tell me what to do, just give me his head on a platter!
Two lines! Two fucking lines! 'My wife returns from Europe tomorrow. I can't see you any more.' Just like that!
Frances...
Harry, I hate being in love. I don't ever want to be in love again. I just hate it!
How the hell do you find me anyway?
Animal magnetism! No ginger beer. What's this red stuff?
What's left of my blood.
Think I'll have a glass.
Help yourself. Everyone else has.
Nice joint. Can you afford it?
Nope. The studio pays. Thank you, Harry.
What for?
For not chopping off his head and serving it to me on a platter.
Well, I would have, you know? I just didn't know how to cook it.
Six months' probation...? You gotta learn when to do battle, Farmer. You're not going to win many bouts with 200 pound cops.
I took the early rounds.
I'll bet.
I don't know. It hurts, Harry. Some things, no matter what you do with them, they just hurt.
So you drink, and you fight with a cop...?
Yeah, and you look at people and you wonder who the hell they are, what's going on inside their heads. Sometimes you can hear it, like a buzzing, the things that happen in their heads. And you wonder: does anybody ever love anybody, really?
Beats me.
Hey look, I got some business down in San Diego. Whattaya say you come with me, stay a few days?
No, Harry, I can't 
You're coming.
I just wanted to be part of something... one thing, one play or one movie, something that was really fine... memorable. And I could say: I did that, I made something good.
And?
Well... to get a crack at something good, you gotta earn it, you gotta climb the ladder first. So you do, you work hard, and all these people behind you are pushing you up, shouting you on. And then one day you realize you are, you're at the top... and there's nothing there. And you look behind you and there's no one below. You're just left there all alone... swaying in the goddamned breeze.
Take a walk, pal.
Who said I was a lady?
Oh my God, I look awful.
You've looked a whole lot better. C'mon.
Evening, gorgeous.
That sure looks like fun... You know how long it's been since I was behind the wheel?
Forget it, Frances. You're not driving.
Have I told you how mean you're turning, York?
Where are we, mean man?
Couple hours from Idaho. We'll cut across to Montana. I've got friends there with a ranch.
I should've known...
What?
This is another one of your schemes to get me off alone...
That's right.
...Take advantage of me.
I don't think I'd be much good in a war...
Whattaya think you're in now?
I don't know. Not a war exactly. It's more a... a misapprehension maybe...
Huh?
A misunderstanding, people taking the wrong meaning from things. I wasn't declaring war, Harry. I was just saying my prayers.
Harry, I have to go home. I have to talk to Mama.
Frances, you're fulla drugs. You don't know what you're saying. Who do you think put you into Meadow Wood? Your mother thinks you're crazy and she'll keep on thinking it as long as it suits her.
No, she just didn't want me going to jail, that's all.
Yeah? She's a shark, Frances. I'm not taking you there, and that's that!
You know something, Harry?
I guess.
Aside from meanness, you're almost perfect. There's only one other thing wrong with you.
What's that?
You can't drink.
Ohhh, that's lousy Scotch!
Hey! Another shot for the lady and a double for me!
What a man!
Hey, you're a good quarterhorse, kid, but you can't go a route of ground.
To quarterhorses.
No. To thoroughbreds.
Why are you always leaving me, Harry?
Huh?
You should stickaround sometimes. Look out for me.
Look, Frances, I'm only gonna ask this one time. I mean it. I swear after this, I'll never ask again: Will you marry me?
I know a thing or two about marriage. You... you understand me more than anyone, Harry... maybe even more than Mama. But... you're too important to me. I'd fail you. I don't know how or why, but I would. And that's a chance I just can't take. Do you understand?
Well... I'll act like I do until I do.
There's just one more thing.
What's that?
Will you marry me?
It's not too late to keep going, up to Vancouver? Be the smartest thing.
Thanks, Harry, really, but... I can't explain it. She's my mother. She's just... I can't give up on her that easy.
You give up on her?
Yeah. It's just... something I gotta do, I guess.
Frances, You're crazy.
I know. Don't tell anyone.
Anyway... if you need me...
I got your number, Mister Man.
Frances! Frances!
Who?
Frances, it's me, Harry?
...Touch me again and I'll kill you, you pig.
I love you, Harry. I love you.
I love you too, Frances.
Where to?
Oh Harry...
This is it, kid. This is our chance. When you got a chance, you better take it.
Yeah. I don't know.
You don't need to screw around anymore. You don't need Dwayne Steele or Odets or your mother. You need me.
I know, but... There were so many people in there, Harry. Every time I turned around someone was pressing against me... watching, looking over my shoulder, touching me, grabbing, sticking things into me. When I feel somebody near me now... anybody... my skin starts to crawl.
Been a lot of years, you know. A long time waiting. For what? End up feeling like a sap.
Oh please, Harry... don't even think it. You're the only person who ever... It's just... Can't you wait for me?
I don't know.
Yes you do. If you love me you can wait, right? A month, six months, whatever it takes.
Right. Except... time has a way of 
No, Harry, it's not time, it's us. You and me. And I'm telling you now that I'll come to you, okay? I'll find you. I will.
I hope so, Frances.
C'mere. I want to talk to you.
Oh. Why, Harry York. How nice to see you.
How... how ya doin', Farmer?
Fine, thank you. Did you watch the show?
Sure I did, that's why I'm here.
How did I look?
Oh, you... ...ennh.
Well... you're looking well.
I got a new car. Only it's red. Did you know Mama died?
Yeah. Yeah, I heard about that.
Dad, too. I sold the house. I'm a faceless sinner, Harry...
Why do you say that?
I'd ask you to take me home, but I'm a faceless sinner. ...You smell good, Harry. Familiar, you know? I'd ask you to take me home, but...
It's going to be slow from now on. Do you know what I mean, Harry?
I'm not sure.
Very slow. But we're not going to stop, are we?
No.
No, we're not.
Goodbye, Harry. It was very good to see you again.
Yes. Would you like me to walk a little way with you?
That would be okay.
Just a little way.
I'm really sad it's closing. Now what am I gonna do on Tuesday nights?
You can always come see it in London.
Only if you were in it. Are you?
I wouldn't miss it.
Boy, I'd love to... but I'm going to Hollywood.
Are you an actor?
Hell yes!... well, okay, I'm still in school. But as soon as I graduate... California, here I come!
Are you really serious? About acting?
Why... yes.
Then don't go to Hollywood.
Why?
I'm telling you straight, if you have any serious ambitions, stay clear of the place. It'll crush you.
You sound as if you hate it.
No, I don't hate it.
Aren't you ever going back?
...Not if I can help it.
Gosh! You'll break a lot of hearts.
They'll mend.
What about your husband?
What?
Will you be getting back together? When you quit Hollywood, I mean.
What is this?
Is it true you're getting a divorce? Comrade?
Why, you... you little bastard!
Just one minute...
You're wasting your time, lady. Nothing's off the record with me.
Name?
I don't believe this! You jerks drag me down here in the middle of the night and you don't even know who the hell I am!
Age?
Fifteen.
Address?
Just put me down as a avg  a vagrant vagabond. Come on, this is a joke! Assault and battery? I barely touched that bitch!
Occupation?
Kurt!
Oh, Angela! Go with these trappers! They'll lead you safely down the mountain...
But, Kurt, I...
No, No arguments. Be my good girl and go. There's a forest, a burning forest, and you know what I have to do!
Oh, Kurt!
Oh Angela, my own... Angela!
It always amazes me, Lil, how you can whip up a hot, hearty meal out of thin air.
I can thank you for that. It was a hardearned talent.
Bread?
Thank you.
When's the last time you saw a hundred dollars, Ernest Farmer?
You're poisoning that child's mind.
I have a right to talk to her. She's my daughter, and she's beginning to understand why I've sacrificed so much in order to achieve...
You've sacrificed?! If you'd practice law for decent folk instead of Communists and indigents 
They need help, Lil. They pay me back in other ways.
How? What do they do for you, Kaminski and his friends? They're all anarchists! Traitors!
No, Lil. It's just you can't understand their brand of patriotism.
That's right. I can't understand a man who puts strangers over his family, a man who gives up a good career to become a shiftless inkhorn failure.
I'm going back to the hotel.
Good.
See you next weekend?
As usual. Everything as usual, Mr. Farmer. Just give me my due.
Lillian... I'm more than willing to meet you halfway.
Don't make me sick. I'd sooner drown myself in Puget Sound.
That's a thought, Lil. That sure is a thought.
Bye, baby.
See you next weekend, Dad.
I'm... I'm really proud of you, Frances.
Thanks, Dad.
An essay contest... a national contest. That's pretty impressive.
I didn't have much to do with it.
You wrote it, didn't you?
Yeah, I suppose... Dad, who's Harry York?
Well, Harry York is a guy who... well, he does a lot of things. Why do you ask?
He talked to me today. Told me to keep my mouth shut or I'd get everybody in trouble.
Yeah... well... it's possible. Harry York and I both work for Mr. Kaminski right now, and... well... There are lots of folks in this country who never got a square break. That's the way of things, but Mr. Kaminski wants to change it, and when it comes to new ideas, the people in power get nervous.
Is Kaminski a Communist?
No, no, no. All he wants to do is see the common man get a little representation.
He's a socialist, then?
It's already started, Dad... with me.
I know.
And I can't understand how it can hurt to be honest, but the more I tried to explain 
Dad, please, don't leave early. Just because of Mama 
Francie, you'll learn that sometimes it's best to stay low and just walk away.
What do I do, Dad?
You really want to go?
Of course.
And you think it's worth all this?
If I didn't, I wouldn't put you through it.
...Then go.
I love you, Mama. I love you, Dad.
Be careful, Francie.
...So what do you think?
I don't know, honey. Your mother has such big plans for you.
I know that, Dad, but 
What you have to understand, Francie, is that she... well... she wanted so much for herself too, and for me, and she never really got to... The only time I ever saw her happy was if her name was in the papers... but she could have been... if times were different she could have been a politician or... I don't know.
But Dad, I'm asking about me. What do you think I should do?
Well, Francie, sometimes after you get your hands on something you want, it just doesn't look the same. Then you have to be real smart to know if you should hold onto it because it's all you've got... or just let it go. This is the way of things, but I guess you already know that.
Dad... whatever I decide, will it be okay with you?
Always. Always.
I'm sorry, I... I don't have a desk in my room, and...
I don't care, Dad. I love you.
I love you too, Francie.
Francie, you know I can't do that.
Why? It's such a simple thing. You just let me out and I disappear down a road and you never have to see me again.
They'll just catch you again, Francie. Besides, your mother will know.
Dad, here! You don't have to stop, just slow down. You can tell Mama I jumped out. She knows that's the kind of thing I'd do. She won't blame you.
But I gave her my word. Besides, she's still your legal guardian. My hands are tied.
You know where you're taking me. You know what she'll do. Just give me a minute, slow down, give me an instant for once in your life, please?
Please, Francie...
Daddy!
Are you... are you hungry?
I pity us, Dad. I pity us both.
...until finally your mother finds it necessary to commit you to a state mental institution. Were you mentally ill, Frances?
...No, Ralph. I don't believe I ever was sick. But when you're treated like a patient long enough, you're apt to act like one...
Were you an alcoholic?
No.
Were you a drug addict?
No. Never.
Thank you, Ralph.
Thank you, Frances. And after the show we're hosting a reception for you and your friends at Hollywood's own Roosevelt Hotel!
This is the answer: a subscription drive to "Voice of Action!" First prize is a trip to Moscow! You could visit the art theatre, maybe even meet Stanislavski!
But I'll never win that.
Yes, yes, it's all arranged. Everyone's collecting subscriptions in your name. And the best part is: the trip returns you to New York.
Really?
New York, Frances! Broadway! This is your chance! You belong on the stage!
Thank you.
Doctor, it may sound odd, but I believe I've profited from my stay here. It's just what I've needed, to get away like this. But I'm recuperated now. I've had lots of time to think and I've made a few decisions about my life. I'm ready to get on with it.
I know you believe that.
...Don't you?
I'm afraid not. You see, we observe things that you're unaware of: signs, indicators. Your problem cuts very deep, Frances, and we have to get at that deeper stuff so that when you do get out, you'll really feel secure. Does that make sense?
No. Cut this runaround, Doctor. I know better.
Listen to yourself, Frances. The resistance, the anger in your voice.
You... I'm sorry, forgive me. Doctor, tell me honestly, what do I have to do to get out of here?
Be patient, that's all. Take an interest in your treatment and don't dwell on your resentments. You'll be yourself again, I assure you.
...I see.
We'll talk more about this. I'll see you later.
One question. If I'm not myself now, just who do you think I am?
Harry? Oh Harry, I knew you'd come. I love you, Harry. I love... Take me home, Harry.
We'll get you home, Frances.
Thank you, Harry.
Oh, God! Let's get her out of here tonight, right now! Let's take her with us!
The hearing's tomorrow. If she gets out legally, they can't come after her.
Look at her! She'll never pass that sanity test tomorrow...
I'm taking care of that, Harry. Just hold her. Reserpine. I guarantee you this'll clear her head. She'll wake up feeling smart and sailright through the hearing.
Let's get out of here! I'll lose my job!
Frances, we gotta do it this way. Just remember tomorrow, remember what I told you. What're you gonna tell 'em?
Harry!
I gotta go now.
We're all square now, Harry. Right?
All square, Doc.
Good. 'Cause I don't want to see you again.
You learn your lines?
Sort of.
There've been some calls.
Who?
Well... about half an hour ago that woman from the talent department called, what's her name?
Claire?
Yeah, Claire. She said she was fired. Too bad, huh?
Fired?
Yeah. She said she delivered your message and that you'd understand.
There was another call too. From your agent. He says your summer stock deal is all set. So you're going back east, huh?
...Yes.
Without me.
Showdown.
You weren't going to tell me, were you? Just pack up and leave, is that it?
Dick, we need some time apart 
Hey, I'm not a complete fool, you know. I can see you're going sour on me, and when I try to do something about it, you turn your back and say it's nothing.
Dick, I can't even breathe here...
Dwayne! I'm Dwayne now! And you damn well better get used to it!
Dick...
I don't suppose it occurred to you that I might want to leave too, that I might want to do theatre? No, 'cause you don't want me along, do you? And the reason has nothing to do with summer stock.
No?
No. It's all about that night, isn't it?
What night?
The premiere. I never pressed you about it but god damn it, you're gonna tell me right here and right now what happened and where the hell you were!
You want his name?
Hey, where's the fire, sister?
In my eyes, officer.
Cool off, beautiful. Didn't you see the sign says "Dimout Zone?" There's a war on, you know?
Come on. You're seriously trying to tell me the Japs can't find Los Angeles without my headlights?
I didn't make the law, lady. I just enforce it.
Get your clothes on.
You have no right! You have no fucking right, you bastards! Get the hell out of here 
Get your clothes on, lady 
GET OUT!
You're under arrest.
The Group is more than a theatre company. It's the embodiment of an ideal. Our approach allows the actor to be an artist in the fullest sense, a creative individual and an instrument of change. You see 
Really, Mr. Clurman, you don't have to sell me.
Forgive my indulgence. Seems we always lecture those who are on time for those who are tardy. The point is, Mr. Odets here has written a wonderful play. Most of the roles are cast, but we haven't found our female lead...
Who is she?
...Not only an artist, but an instrument of change. We must look to the world around us, not content to observe, but to take an active hand in redressing its wrongs. We will not stand idly by as Fascist bombs obliterate democracy. We contribute our profits, for if fascism is not stopped in Spain, it will spread across Europe, jeopardizing the struggle of civilized man to survive. The artist, to be vital, must be a soldier too.
I'm not afraid of struggle, Clifford.
Hello, Harold.
Frances.
Where's Clifford?
He's not here.
Oh.
What's up?
I hear you're meeting with the studio lawyers to get out of your contract.
That's right. I don't want them breathing down my neck while we're in London.
Well... well, you see, that's the point. You won't be opening in London.
You don't think I'm good enough?
What?! Good Lord no, it's just... It's money. We needed backing and... well, we found it.
Who?
An actress.
A rich actress.
Yes. That's the deal. She plays Lorna.
But... but wait a minute. We're supposed to be different, right? Clifford says... This theatre is supposed to be different! And this play... this play is all about what greed and money do to people!
I know, but 
What does Clifford say?
Right now we have to be practical.
Does Clifford even know? You didn't tell him, did you? I'm gonna tell him. Where is he?
He knows, Frances.
Face it! Confess it! You're weak!
I'm not!
You're afraid!
I'm not!
You don't want to show your whole soul  ugly, misshapen, and pitiful  you don't want to show it 
God damn it, Clifford, will you shut up! I tell you, I want to give these things! I want to give them to the audience, and I can give them, I will give them, so shut up!
Good, good. Give them that.
What?
Madam...?
Thank you.
Oh my God! Frances, I'm such a cad. I can't go through with this. My wife is in Europe, but this is her house... her bedroom. I can't ask you to...
Oh well. I guess I better leave then.
Okay, but come here first.
Huh.
Come here. I want to show you something.
Hi Frances, got a minute?
Sure, Claire. If you don't mind walking my way.
Well, I suppose I should just say it. It's your clothes.
My clothes?
Yeah, I mean slacks... and work clothes... and that awful car 
It's a perfectly good car. It runs.
Yes, but... Really, I hate to sound... it's just that the public expects something different from its stars. People won't take you seriously.
I don't care if my clothes are taken seriously. Or my car.
You know what I mean.
Uhhuh. You mean what if the public finds out I perspire? And wear slacks. And drive an old jalopy? What if they find out I'm a real person. Oh no! Say it ain't so! Not a real person!
That's not all, Frances. Mr. Bebe is very concerned about your politics. He hears you've been donating money, speaking at rallies.
Yup. Claire... please, please tell Mr. Bebe that if he worried half as much about his scripts as he does about my private life, we'd make a lot better movies.
I'm sorry, Frances. It's my job, you know?
I know. 'This is a factory and we each have our jobs. The writer writes, the director directs, and the actress...'
...acts. I'll relay your message.
That's Frances. I'm not the cookbook.
You see: We've got to change that name.
I like your looks. You have the classical bone structure of the very great beauties... Garbo, Dietrich 
Thank you 
I intend to make a great deal of money off you.
Since we have you on a seven year contract, I'm planning longrange. I'm going to loan you out to Sam Goldwyn to make a picture called "Come and Get It."
Really? That's a very good book. It'd make a terrific 
Never mind that. I'm concerned about you. Your attitude.
Society is falling apart, Miss Farmer, and people have to buckle down, do their jobs. You see, I view myself as the Henry Ford of motion picture industry, and I can't have the fellow who puts on the wheels arguing with the man who installs headlights, now can I?
But I'm concerned with everything, Mr. Bebe.
No, I'm concerned with everything.
But I'm the one up there on the screen.
That's right. You're an actress, Miss Farmer and your job is to act.
Look, Mr. Bebe, you can hold me to my contract, but you can't break me. I'm back, and I'm gonna make the best of it.
I'd like nothing better.
Good morning, Mr. Bebe!
Who's this?
Frances Farmer, contract player, six month option.
Okay. Good tits. Can't we show them off a little more?
I guess so, sir.
Very fine bone structure.
And on top of her political activities, now she's got a lawyer. She wants out of her contract, Mr. Bebe. She says she's through with motion pictures.
I'm sure it wasn't me, it wasn't me...
Excuse me, sir?
I don't know who she fucked to get where she is, but I don't think it was me.
Well... you could always dump her, Mr. Bebe. Teach her a lesson. There are a million beautiful girls out there who don't give a damn about politics.
That's not the point. Frances Farmer has the world by the tit because of this studio, and now she thinks she can waltz off without a thank you. No. No, that young lady has a contract, and she's going to honor it.
Oh. I mean, good.
I think it's time to take the gloves off. Get me some reporters. Particularly Louella Parsons!
Well... come on.
This is a mistake. No. This is a disaster.
Come on, it's just what you need! Let everyone see you. Talk to them, live it up!
But we've been at it since six this morning. At least you could've let me go home and change.
Look, Frances, I didn't want this job. Think I'm crazy? But you begged me: improve your image. So please... lemme try, huh?
You're right. I'm sorry. Okay, let's go get 'em.
Here, take a few of these. Studio makes 'em in the basement. They keep the fat off.
So not only am I a troublesome bitch, but I'm fat too?
Come on. They make you feel nice and peppy.
Frances? Oh no.
Refill my drink, will you, Bob?
What're you doing?
Putting on my armor.
Come on, Frances. Louella Parsons is here. She wants to talk to you, help you out.
Louella... didn't she call me a spoiled little bitch?
Come on, she's an important columnist! What's the matter? I thought you wanted these people to forgive you.
'Forgive'...? For What?
I'm sorry... that was an unfortunate choice of words.
Hey little bear, aren't you going to join the others?
Um, my allergist told me not to engage in physically demanding activities where ragweed or spores might be present, sir.
Do you have a note to corroborate these claims?
Um, well...
Are you lying to me?
Well...
What did we say about lying?
I'm not lying.
You know that no one likes a liar, right?
I said I'm not lying.
What have you done now, broke the darn thing?
I just hit it like you said.
Oh my God... What is that?
That's one piece of four problems.
Cody! Cody are you all right? Mommy's coming! Mommy's coming, baby! Don't move! Mommy's coming!
Stop her!
Oh sweetheart! What was I thinking? Mommy is never gonna let you go. Oh Jesus... Never, ever, never let you go.
Let's lock off this room.
Shut up! Shut your mouth. You have no idea what is running through me right now. No idea. I'm ready.
All right.
You know you don't have to do this.
I'm fine, I really am.
I admire your strength.
We all have to be strong, right?
Right.
Her name is Charlie.
Oh...
She's still alive, I hope. I wouldn't have made it this far if it weren't for the chance of seeing my little girl again. I need to get to her.
I'll do anything to help.
I know. Thanks. Just don't tell anyone I have a soft side.
Deal.
We should stick together out there.
I'd love to.
Did we make it?
I think 
If you are face to face with her, dive left.
And the last one is the...
Father. The biggest, the strongest...
Okay, well that's something.
So we've got guns, kitchen knives, pipes, fire and sticks.
There's a rifle and a shotgun here.
That's fine.
Hold it!
Whoa!
Let's go!
Wait Goddammit!
If there is only one way out for us, there is only one way in for them.
Make a distraction out front and go for it out the back. There's cars back there, right?
Go! Go!
Not without you!!!
Go!!!
Get to your cars!
GOGOGO!!
Do we have anything else to defend ourselves with? Anything?
Right. Were going to need some fire power. Do you have any sort of guns or ammunition here? Anything at all?
What's wrong?
Nothing, just lookin'.
Let's go.
She's not very nice, is she?
DON'T!
YOU'LL HIT US!
Let's wait it out.
They'll tear this place down within the hour.
Well, maybe they migrate?
As long as it's dark, they're around. They hide, wait for you to drop your guard, and then attack.
Hey!
Everyone take a role. Let's prepare the guns, ammo and whatever else we can scare up. We also need to help the hurt so we can move them on our ultimate exit outta here. So, who's going into the basement with me?
Okay, well... anybody else have an idea?
Is there any other way out of this place? ANYONE?
Yeah, I'll go.
Ok. Let's see what happens.
Let's move.
I'm done drinking. That's it. Just Church and grocery stores. Nothin' else.
You don't want the rag to touch the booze, that way you can hold it awhile and ensure it explodes when you throw it.
You sure? I thought the rag had to touch?
I'm sure.
HELP MEEE!
BONSAI!
I'm in a wheelchair, the truck sounds pretty good.
Amazing you made it this far.
Nothin' will happen to you. You get on my back, hold on tight and we truck out of here together.
Am I too heavy for you?
Don't worry, you'll be like my little papoose.
OH JESUS!
HELLLPPP!
Got 'cha!
HOLD THAT TIGHT!
'Eh, Chief?
Duh hickey.
Fine, Chief.
Gimme the keys.
NO, but I will lock you in.
What?
We'll be on the other side waiting for you. If you become food I don't want the only set of keys in the belly of one of those things. It's your funeral.
You are taking a chance that is not worth the risk.
Well, we are one miracle short tonight. So, just guard the stairs?
Done. But you're locked in. Will you hold the keys?
What?!
Move slow and move quiet.
No shit.
Move it!
You keep that key handy.
Shit!
I'm fine! I'm fine!
JUST A BAT! I'M FINE! JUST A BAT! SORRY!
If he doesn't shut up...
Hurry!
REPEAT. WE NEED HELP. SOS. CALLING ALL CARS! WE NEED HELP AT THE UNITED NATIONS TAV!
SHIT.
MOVE YOUR ASS!
COME ON!
HELLLLLLLLP!!
Yeah, maybe.
Get something on that.
Where the hell are we going to go then, Billy Jack!?
There's a bomb shelter over in Durant, by the IGA, on First. You all know where that is?
Welcome back.
Fffuck you.
They were all over the place.
You smell like ass!
Look, the armed surround the unarmed in a circle and we move as a tight group. Those that can shoot, protect the rest to his ride.
Hey, when this plan completely goes to shit, what are ya gonna do?
Bullshit.
No bullshit.
Clever fuckers.
What the hell's going on here!?
Blow the goddamn hatch!
Clear!
What's that!? Wha'cha say? Huh?
Get outta here.
This one will just stun ya, but this one will put ya to sleep.
Whoa!
You young'uns worry about weapons, I'm thinkin' bout strategy.
Oh? And what's that?
Sit still, look less like a meal.
I think that's for bears and sharks, chunky chew.
I wouldn't do that, son.
They're probably on to the next buffet by now. There's a retirement home up the road. They'd be easy.
I'll go with ya.
What are you gonna do? Throw your teeth at 'em? Sit down, Cocoon.
My husband...
Well, where's the sonuvabitch!?
He's dead.
What?
Jesus Christ on the cross... Someone make sense.
Easy. We're surrounded by something the likes none of you have ever seen before. Some kind of animals. Real fast, volatile, predators. ONE went through three of your patrons like they were Kleenex.
So, your dead hubby shot me twice, three of my customers have been eaten, and there are angry creatures outside?
He only shot you once.
Huh?
He shot you the other time.
Will these boards hold?
The boards are solid oak planks, and the floor is reinforced by a steel grid beneath. Nothing real or supernatural is busting through this, least nothing the size of the beasts.
Good.
In the kitchen, under the sink.
No one goes anywhere alone. Least of all, unarmed.
Go for it. It's by the far wall. A small wave band. Channel 9 is the emergency frequency. But I don't see the point.
You're wasting your time, there's no one out there.
What?
What?
What do you mean what?
Huh?
What's going on between you two?
Nothing.
What's it for!?
Grass. I grow some pot down there. It's no big deal, just something I dabble in. The truck's for a quick get away, deliveries, whatever.
Is it gassed up?
Fully.
Four door?
Two.
Open?
Covered.
How many?
Holds four.
Max?
Seven.
Nine?
Seven.
Keys.
What!? So you can just get the hell outta here and forget about all of us!? No way! That's my god damn truck!
Let me make this clear; if we stay, we die!
I don't trust you. No way! I pick who goes! And I'm holding you responsible.
How are you holding up?
Well...
Push and twist, it's child proof.
Oh.
Gimme a couple dabs on the tongue.
What is this?
Magic potion. You should try a little.
Oh, no.
It'll calm your nerves. Works like a charm.
Really?
Uh huh. Just put a dab on your tongue.
Will I go crazy or something?
No, no, it calms you, makes everything nice and smooth. Just takes the edge off like a beer, but in a fraction of the time.
Why not then?
Wait, before you do that, help me to the kitchen, I need to lay down. There's a cot back there.
But 
It's much safer in there, sweety.
Okay then.
Doesn't your foot hurt?
I can't feel a thing, Hon.
Umhmmm.
The girl's got rhythm.
You wanna see, baby?
Sure.
How much you got?
How much I got, what?
How much you got to see the show?
You don't understand sweety, Daddy doesn't pay, Daddy sees the show for free. But you do get points for being horny on a night like this.
What? Really?
Uh huh, now wiggle that sweet little ass over here and sit on Daddy's face, I wanna do some appraising.
I'm in.
Anyone else?
We're going to get help.
We gotta try.
Anybody else?
We gotta be close.
What?
All right! Tell us about the truck!
Uh, uh, I think if we can get everyone into it... we can get out of here.
My truck can't be more than ten feet away. We load into the back, I can get in the front and we roll out of here.
What's in the back?
Nothing, this was my last delivery.
Yeah, the lot's right there. My truck is right out back.
But not flush against the tunnel?
It's imperative that you get that truck moving.
Just cover me. It was built to move.
Why do you take shit from him?
Look, yeah, he's an ass, but he's my brother. Que serasera.
Your brother, huh?
Yep.
Your parents of relation?
We lived near power lines.
So, what now? Did those things leave?
Why don't you go check it out?
Fuck no.
Any more ideas Animal Planet?
You weren't helpin'.
Go douche.
I'm telling ya, you got the cloth too deep, you're asking for it.
Oh yeah?
Do you drive a short beer bus or something? You go out there you get eaten, you stay in here you get eaten, anyone comes to help they get eaten. Don't you see a pattern here, Spuds Makenzie?
Well then I guess we should just give up.
Believe me, I'd love to save the day and get some heroic snatch. But it's not in the cards, partner.
We're better off.
Who's with me?
Come on!
He's dead.
What now, Geronimo?
My truck.
You're trusting that guy? He'll ditch us and never look back.
Fuck you too.
Get in line!
Scared?
No. You?
Of course not. I fight monsters all the time.
I'd love to be macho, but this is a pants wetter from all angles.
The door... on three.
Ohhh.
What?
Look.
That's an unwise thing to say, you know that?
Just an observation.
Well, why don't you keep your observations to yourself?
That's the oldest of the bunch, looked like the Grandpapa. We caught the little one, Junior, in the cooler there. As we've seen, what he lacks in size he more than makes up for in speed.
And the rest of 'em?
Unfortunately, the worst of 'em are still outside.
And that's how I ended up here.
And the head?
So, your husband ditched you?
No, no, no it was... it was wild out there, no time to think, we just moved. He didn't leave me. He just ran. He just ran.
Well, justice is funny.
They're right here.
Hey!
Jesus Christ, I'm gonna have a stroke.
Easy.
Don't bullshit me! If you know a way out of this place and you're holding out 
There's a tunnel.
What tunnel? Where?
It's in the basement, about a hundred yards long. It spits out on the backside of that hill down the way. There's a truck there.
What's it for?
HEY! No, I'm not trusting him either, that's why you and I will both be going with him.
What!? I'm not going down there again!
This is it! This is our only way out! They have this place surrounded. We go out the front, we're dead. We go out the back, we're dead, but if we go UNDER them... we might just make it. Now, who else is in? Seven can go.
This is a bottleneck waiting to happen.
You all sure about this?
Follow me.
Where's the tunnel?
In the corner, behind the curtain.
We just smeared a skunk.
Shit!
I'm gonna shoot him if they don't get him first.
Just move!
You seem mighty collected about this.
Buddy, I'm a fullblooded Chucktow. I can't think of a time my people haven't been takin' it dry. The fact that we are being eaten now, doesn't even faze me... ...this is just another Tuesday.
Hey! Get quiet or get out.
C'mon guys
I think I know where a CB is.
Where's that?
Upstairs.
Okay, now. Easy steps. Easy breaths. Easy steps.
Come on, come on.
Oh!
"OH!?" WHAT IS "OH?" What does "oh" mean?
Wha?
OPEN THE DOOR!
You got something better?
If we move in a group, we are one target. If we scatter, they CAN'T get us all.
We'll be food, dickheads!
Well, your last words can be "I told you so."
You gotta be with me on this.
One keg of Beast for the basement, then, truck's dry.
Gonna stay for a couple?
I have a CB in my truck, we could get some help out here.
Who the hell would you call?
Anyone.
Stop it.
Hey. You noticed that no one's been killed or maimed for awhile?
We shot a skunk.
We're lucky to be alive.
IS IT CLEAR?!
Yeah.
IS THERE A GUN POINTING AT YOU?
Nah, I got the gun.
My god damn foot is gone! Who fuckin' shot me? Who fuckin' shot me!?
Her fella.
Well, it don't look pretty.
But it's got teeth.
I got my .38 here. That's six shots and two refills. Downstairs, I think we got another rifle, maybe a scatterer and some gardening tools. Maybe a couple boxes of shells for The Judge.
I got shells too, box and a half, tops.
I don't think you should...
With what just happened upstairs 
You can't keep me here. This is bullshit. Fuckin' bullshit. This is fucking BULLSHIT!
We can't risk letting them in.
Right.
Careful.
I'm telling you, I don't see a thing 
I will not die because of him!
Don't be stupid, drop the gun!
We should go! We should go right now!
He's right, let's move. Be quiet and get to the exit. Pair up, grab the weapons.
Are you two all right? Did you see that!? They left! We made it! I think we made it!
They'll be back.
Oh, come on! Can't you be happy for one split second? They're gone!
You know where it is?
Um, yeah, thirty miles east.
We'll meet in three hours?
I don't wanna go home alone... I don't wanna see what might have...
Where are you two going?
We're going to get my little girl.
Sorry, didn't mean to scare you.
Where is everyone?
I don't know, I just got here. Did you find your girl?
It serves you right. You cheatin' jerk.
Spare me.
I figure it's karma. You wronged me and you wronged your wife and you wronged your children, so this is karma biting you on the ass, or in your case... ...on the eye.
Stop!
What the fuck are you doing he's in there!
They can't get in here! You said it yourself, they'll get in!
YOU'RE KILLING HIM!
They'll get in! We'll all die!
You're lying! You were after the evidence. Who put you up to this  the manager?
I don't know what you're talking about!
Bullshit! You're just as much a part of it as they are!
Part of what?
Come on, baby don't try to tell us you never heard of the Grange Gorman.
No! No! I swear to Jesus I never heard of that stuff!
In that case, maybe she can help.
Yes! I'll help you all you need! I hate dope!
What?
One phone call every day. Just tell us what you've seen. Don't worry if it doesn't add up, that's our problem.
Oh Lord! I'd do just about anything for that!
You and a lot of other people.
Oh, and don't bother to make up the room. That way we won't have to risk another of these little incidents, will we?
Whatever you say, gentlemen. I can't tell you how sorry I am about what happened...
Don't worry, it's all over now. Thank God for the decent people.
May I see your license.
Of course, officer.
Could I have that, please?
Why not? It was getting warm anyway.
You realize...
Yeah. I know. I'm guilty. I understand that. I knew it was a crime but I did it anyway. Shit, why argue? I'm a fucking criminal.
That's a strange attitude.
You know  I get the feeling you could use a nap. There's a rest area up ahead. Why don't you pull over and sleep a few hours?
A nap won't help. I've been awake for too long  three or four nights. I can't even remember. If I go to sleep now, I'm dead for twenty hours.
Okay. Here's how it is. What goes into my book, as of noon, is that I apprehended you... for driving too fast, and advised you to proceed no further than the next rest area... your stated destination, right? Where you plan to take a long nap. Do I make myself clear?
How far is Baker? I was hoping to stop there for lunch.
Not my jurisdiction. The city limits are two point two miles beyond the rest area. Can you make it that far?
I'll try. I've been wanting to go to Baker for a long time. I've heard a lot about it.
Please... please... I'm only the maid. I didn't mean nothin!...
YOU'RE UNDER ARREST!
What made you do it? Who paid you off?
Nobody. I'm the maid!
The dope ring. You must know what's going on in this hotel. Why do you think we're here?
I know you're cops, but I thought you were just here for that convention. I swear! All I wanted to do was clean up the room. I don't know anything about dope!
Maybe she's telling the truth. Maybe she's not part of it.
No! I swear I'm not!
You'd pay me for that?
You're damn right. But the first time you say anything about this, to anybody  you'll go straight to prison for the rest of your life. What's your name?
Alice. Just ring Linen Service and ask for Alice.
The password is: "One Hand Washes The Other." The minute you hear that, you say "I fear nothing."
I fear nothing.
"One toke over the line, sweet Jesus."
One toke. You poor fool. Wait till you see those goddamn bats.
We're your friends. We're not like the others.
No more of that talk or I'll put the leeches on you.
If so  well, we'll just have to cut his head off and bury him somewhere. Because it goes without saying that we can't turn him loose. He'd report us at once to some kind of outback Nazi law enforcement agency, and they'll run us down like dogs...
Jesus! Did I say that?
Or just think it? Was I talking? Did they hear me?
It's okay. He's admiring the shape of your skull.
God hell! I think I see the pattern! This one sounds like real trouble! You're going to need plenty of legal advice before this thing is over. As your attorney I must advise you that you'll need a very fast car with no top and after that, the cocaine. And then the tape recorder, for special music, and some Acapulco shirts... This blows my weekend, because naturally I'll have to go with you  and we'll have to arm ourselves.
Why not? If a thing's worth doing, it's worth doing right.
I tell you, my man. This is the American Dream in action! We'd be fools not to ride this strange torpedo all the way to the end.
Indeed. We must do it. What kind of story is this?
O.K., O.K., yes. Hang onto it. We'll be there in thirty minutes. I finally located a car with adequate horsepower and the proper coloring. What?! OF COURSE the gentleman has a major credit card! Do you realize who the fuck you're talking to?
Don't take any guff from these swine. Now we need a sound store with the finest equipment. Nothing dinky. One of those new Belgian Heliowatts with a voiceactivated shotgun mike, for picking up conversations in oncoming cars.
We won't make the nut unless we have unlimited credit.
We will. You Samoans are all the same. You have no faith in the essential decency of the white man's culture.
...and we're chock full of that!
Damn right!
My attorney understands this concept, despite his racial handicap. But do you?!
He said he understood, but I could see in his eyes that he didn't. He was lying to me.
My heart!
Where's the medicine?
The medicine? Yes, it's right here.
Turn up the fucking music! My heart feels like an alligator! Volume! Clarity! Bass! We must have bass! What's wrong with us? Are you goddamn old ladies?
You scurvy shyster bastard! Watch your language! You're talking to a Doctor of Journalism!
What the fuck are we doing out here? Somebody call the police! We need help!
Pay no attention to this swine. He can't handle the medicine.
The truth is we're going to Vegas to croak a scag baron named Savage Henry. I've known him for years but he ripped us off  and you know what that means, right?
Savage Henry has cashed his check! We're going to rip his lungs out!
And eat them! That bastard won't get away with this! What's going on in this country when a scum sucker like that can get away with sandbagging a Doctor of Journalism?
Oh, Jesus! Did you see what god just did to us?
God didn't do that! You did it! You're a fucking narcotics agent, that was our cocaine, you pig!
You better be careful. Plenty of vultures out here. They'll pick your bones clean before morning.
You whore!
How long do I have?
Maybe thirty more minutes. As your attorney, I advise you to drive at top speed. It'll be a goddamn miracle if we can get there before you turn into a wild animal. Are you ready for that? Checking into a Vegas hotel under a phony name with intent to commit capital fraud and a head full of acid.
Thirty minutes. It was going to be very close.
Two Cuba Libres with beer and mescal on the side. Who's Lacerda, he's waiting for us in a room on the twelfth floor?
Lacerda?
I was right in the middle of a fucking reptile zoo. And somebody was giving booze to these goddamn things! It won't be long before they tear us to shreds!
If you think we're in trouble now wait until you see what's happening in the elevators.
I just went upstairs to see this man Lacerda. I told him I knew what he was up to... He says he's a photographer! But when I mentioned Savage Henry he freaked! He knows we're onto him!
But what about our room? And the golf shoes?
That's the press table. Where you have to sign in for our credentials. Shit, let's get it over with. You handle that, and I'll check on the room.
No, no. Don't leave me!
Shoot it.
Not yet. I want to study its habits.
What are you talking about?
You bastard! They'll never let us back in that place. I leave you alone for three minutes and you start waving that goddamn marlin spike around  yelling about reptiles! You scared the shit out of those people! They were ready to call the cops. Hell, the only reason they gave us press passes was to get you out of there...
That's good...
I think he's lying to us. I could see it in his eyes.
They'll probably have a big net for us when we show up.
Total control now. Tooling along the main drag on a Saturday night in Vegas, two good old boys in a fire apple red convertible... stoned, ripped, twisted... Good people!
How about "Nickel Nick's Slot Arcade?" "Hot Slots," that sounds heavy. Twenty nine cent hotdogs...
Look, what are we doing here? Are we here to entertain ourselves, or to do the job?
To do the job, of course. Here we go... a Crab Louie and quart of muscatel for twenty dollars!
Why?
Why what?
Holy shit! They almost had us there! That was quick thinking.
What do you expect? I'm your attorney. You owe me five bucks. I want it now.
Jesus creeping shit!
Did the mescaline just kick in? Or was that Debbie Reynolds in a silver Afro wig?!
We wandered into a fucking time capsule!
This is the place. They'll never fuck with us here.
Where's the ether? This mescaline isn't working.
Some angry Rotarian shoves you and you think: What's happening here? What's going on? Then you hear yourself mumbling.
Dogs fucked the Pope, no fault of mine. Watch out!... Why money? My name is Brinks; I was born... Born?
Get sheep over side... women and children to armored car... orders from Captain Zeep.
I hate to say this, but this place is getting to me. I think I'm getting The Fear.
Nonsense. We came here to find the American Dream, and now we're right in the vortex you want to quit. You must realize that we've found the Main Nerve.
That's what gives me The Fear.
Look over there. Two women fucking a Polar Bear.
Please, don't tell me those things... Not now. This is my last drink. How much money can you lend me?
Not much. Why?
I have to go.
GO?
Yes. Leave the country. Tonight.
Calm down. You'll be straight in a few hours.
No. This is serious. One more hour in this town and I'll kill somebody!
OK. I'll lend you some money. Let's go outside and see how much we have left.
Can we make it?
That depends on how many people we fuck with between here and the door.
I want to leave fast.
OK. Lets pay this bill and get up very slowly. It's going to be a long walk.
Do they pay you to screw that bear?
When does this thing stop?
It won't stop. It's not ever going to stop.
Did you see that? Some sonofabitch kicked me in the back.
Probably the bartender. He wanted to stomp you for what you said to the waitress.
Good God! Let's get out of here! Where's the elevator?
Don't go near that elevator. That's just what they want us to do... trap us in a steel box and take us down to the basement.
Don't run. They'd like any excuse to shoot us.
You drive! I think there's something wrong with me.
Yeah... I thought we might need it...
What for?
Let's go up there and blast him out of bed with the fire hose.
No, we should leave the poor bastard alone. I get the feeling that he's avoiding us for some reason.
Don't kid yourself. That Portuguese son of a bitch is dangerous. He's watching us like a hawk.
He told me he was turning in early...
That dirty bastard! I knew it! He's got hold of my woman!
That little blonde groupie with the film crew? You think he sodomized her?
That's right, laugh about it! You goddamn honkies are all the same!
Where'd you get that knife?
Room service sent it up. I wanted something to cut the limes.
What limes?
They didn't have any. They don't grow in the desert.
Have you made a deal with him? Did you put him on to her?
Look you better put that blade away and get your head straight. I have to put the car in the lot.
You evil son of a bitch. You better hope there's some Thorazine in that bag, because if there's not, you're in bad trouble.
Music! Turn it up. Put that tape on.
What tape?
Jefferson Airplane. "White Rabbit." I want a rising sound.
You're doomed. I'm leaving here in two hours and then they're going to come up here and beat the mortal shit out of you with big saps. Right there in that tub.
I dig my own graves. Green water and the White Rabbit. Put it on.
OK. But do me one last favor, will you. Can you give me two hours? That's all I ask  just two hours to sleep before tomorrow. I suspect it's going to be a very difficult day.
Of course, I'm your attorney, I'll give you all the time you need, at my normal rates: $45 an hour  but you'll be wanting a cushion, so, why don't you just lay one of those $100 bills down there beside the radio, and fuck off?
How about a check?
Whatever's right.
I want that fucking radio!
Don't touch it! Get back in that tub!
Back the tape up. I need it again! Let it roll! Just as high as the fucker can go! And when it comes to that fantastic note where the rabbit bites its own head off, I want you to THROW THAT FUCKING RADIO INTO THE TUB WITH ME!
Not me. It would blast you through the wall  stone dead in ten seconds and they'd make me explain it!
BULLSHIT! Don't make me use this.
Jesus.
Do it! I want to get HIGHER!
Fuck yes. I was beginning to think I was going to have to go out and get one of the goddamn maids to do it.
Are you ready?
You bastard! You'd do that, wouldn't you?
Why worry? You'll like it. Nothing in the world like a Mace high. Forty five minutes on your knees with the dry heaves...
You cheap honky sonofabitch...
Why not? Hell, just a minute ago, you were asking me to kill you! And now you want to kill me! What I should do, goddamnit, is call the police!
The cops?
There's no choice. I wouldn't dare go to sleep with you wandering around with a head full of acid and wanting to slice me up with that goddamn knife!
Who said anything about slicing you up? I just wanted to carve a little Z on your forehead. Nothing serious.
You bastard! I need a lawyer immediately!
What are you doing in Baker? Didn't you get my telegram?
What? Fuck telegrams. I'm in trouble. You worthless bastard. I'll cripple your ass for this! All that shit in the car is yours! You understand that? When I finish testifying out here you'll be disbarred!
You're supposed to be in Vegas. We have a suite at the Flamingo. I was just about to leave for the airport.
You degenerate pig!
It can't be helped. This is Lucy. You know  like "Lucy In The Sky With Diamonds."
WELL? What are your plans?
Plans?
Lucy.
Shit. I met her on the plane and I had all that acid. You know, those little blue barrels. I gave her a cap before I realized... she's a religious freak... Jesus, she's never even had a drink.
Well... It'll probably work out. We can keep her loaded and peddle her ass at the drug convention.
Listen, she's running away from home for something like the fifth time in six months. It's terrible.
She's perfect for this gig. These cops will go fifty bucks a head to beat her into submission and then gang fuck her. We can set her up in one of these back street motels, hang pictures of Jesus all over the room, then turn these pigs loose on her... Hell she's strong; she'll hold her own.
Jesus Christ. I knew you were sick but I never expected to hear you actually say that kind of stuff.
It's straight economics. This girl is a godsend. Shit, she can make us a grand a day.
NO! Stop talking like that.
I figure she can do about four at a time. Christ, if we keep her full of acid that's more like two grand a day. Maybe three.
You filthy bastard. I should cave your fucking head in.
In a few hours, she'll probably be sane enough to work herself into a towering Jesusbased rage at the hazy recollection of being seduced by some kind of cruel Samoan who fed her liquor and LSD, dragged her to a Vegas hotel room and savagely penetrated every orifice in her body with his throbbing, uncircumcised member.
NO! I felt sorry for the girl, I wanted to help her!
You'll go straight to the gas chamber. And even if you manage to beat that, they'll send you back to Nevada for Rape and Consentual Sodomy. She's got to go.
The only alternative was to take her out to the desert and feed her remains to the lizards. But, it seemed a bit heavy for the thing we were trying to protect: My attorney.
We have to cut her loose. She's got two hundred dollars. And we can always call the cops up there in Montana, where she lives, and turn her in.
What?... What kind of goddamn monster are you?
It just occurred to me, that she has no witnesses. Anything that she says about us is completely worthless.
Us?
Okay, Lucy, it's time to go meet Barbra...
I felt like a Nazi, but it had to be done.
I gave the cabbie an extra ten bucks to make sure she gets there safe. Also, I told him I'd be there myself in an hour, and if she wasn't, I'd come back out here and rip his lungs out.
That's good. You can't be subtle in this town.
As your attorney, I advise you to tell me where you put the goddamn mescaline.
Maybe we should take it easy tonight.
Right. Let's find a good seafood restaurant and eat some red salmon. I feel a powerful lust for red salmon...
I saw these bastards in Easy Rider, but I didn't believe they were real. Not like this. Not hundreds of them!
They're actually nice people when you get to know them.
Man, I know these people in my goddamn blood!
Don't mention that word around here. You'll get them excited.
This is a fucking nightmare.
Right. Sure as hell some dopedealing bomb freak is going to recognize you and put the word out that you're partying with a thousand cops.
Read the newspapers.
Man, you don't know trouble until you have to face down a bunch of these addicts gone crazy for human sacrifice!
Hell, in Malibu alone, these goddamn Satan worshippers kill six or eight people every day. All they want is the blood. They'll take people right off the street if they have to.
Just the other day we had a case where they grabbed a girl right out of a McDonald's hamburger stand. She was a waitress, about sixteen years old... with a lot of people watching, too!
What could they do? The guy that took the head was about sixseven, and maybe threehundred pounds. He was packing two Lugers, and the others had M16s.
They just ran back out into Death Valley  you know, where Manson turned up...
Like big lizards.
...and every one of them stacked naked...
Yeh, naked!... except for the weapons.
They were all veterans.
What's wrong with you? Hell, somebody has to do it.
Hurry up with those drinks. We're thirsty. Only two rums. Make mine a Bloody Mary.
Sure. It's all on the Q.T., but everybody who matters is with us all the way down the line.
We keep it quiet. It's not the kind of thing you'd want to talk about upstairs. Not with the press around.
Sometimes it's easier to just rip out the backstraps.
They'll fight like hell if you try to take the head without the dogs.
Good work. They'll treat us like goddamn lepers after that.
Lucy is looking for you.
No, she's looking for you.
Me?
She really flipped over you. The only way I could get rid of her was by saying you were taking me out to the desert for a showdown  that you wanted me out of the way so you could have her all to yourself. I guess she figures you won. That phone message wasn't for me, was it?
OK, goddamnit!... Look... I'll call her. I'll get her off our backs. You're right. She's my problem.
It's gone too far.
Relax. Let me handle this. You'd make a pisspoor lawyer... Room 1600, please. As your attorney, I advise you not to worry. Take a hit out of that little brown bottle in my shaving kit.
What is this?
You won't need much. Just a little tiny taste, that stuff makes pure mescaline seem like gingerbeer. Adrenochrome.
Adrenochrome...
Hi, Lucy? Yeah, it's me. I got your message... what? Hell, no, I taught the bastard a lesson he'll never forget... what? No, not dead, but he won't be bothering anybody for a while. Yeah. I left him out there, I stomped him, then pulled all his teeth out...
I remember thinking, "Jesus, what a terrible thing to lay on somebody with a head full of acid."
I remember slumping on the bed, his performance had given me a bad jolt. For a moment I thought his mind had snapped  that he actually believed he was being attacked by invisible enemies. But the room was quiet again.
Where'd you get this?
Never mind, it's absolutely pure.
Jesus... what kind of monster client have you picked up this time? There's only one source for this stuff  the adrenaline gland from a living human body!
I know, but the guy didn't have any cash to pay me. He's one of these Satanism freaks. He offered me human blood  said it would take me higher than I've ever been in my life. I thought he was kidding, so I told him I'd just as soon have an ounce or so of pure adrenochrome  or maybe just a fresh adrenaline gland to chew on.
I could already feel the stuff working on me  the first wave felt like a combination of mescaline and methedrine  maybe I should take a swim, I thought...
Why not? We should get some of that. Just eat a big handful and see what happens.
Some of what?
Extract of pineal!
Sure. That's a good idea. One whiff of that shit would turn you into something out of a goddamn medical encyclopedia.
Man, your head would swell up like a watermelon, you'd probably gain about a hundred pounds in two hours...
Right!
...grow claws... bleeding warts.
Yes!
...then you'd notice about six huge hairy tits swelling up on your back...
Man I'll try about anything; but I'd never touch a pineal gland.
FINISH THE FUCKING STORY! What happened?! What about the glands?
So do we, lady.
I think we should put her on the payroll. See what she comes up with.
Do you think you can handle it?
Alright, Alice... you'll be contacted by Inspector Rock. Arthur Rock. He'll be posing as a politician.
Inspector Rock will pay you. In cash. A thousand dollars on the ninth of every month.
Fuck the car. They should make these things with a goddamn FM radio.
Yeh... This foreign made crap  is sucking our dollar balance dry!
There was nothing in the atmosphere of the North Star to put me on my guard...
Two glasses of ice water with ice.
I was stupid with shock  not knowing whether to run or start laughing.
How much is the lemon meringue pie?
Her eyes were turgid with fear, but her brain was functioning on some basic motor survival level.
What are you doing? You were supposed to turn back there!
We had abused every rule that Vegas lived by  burning the locals, abusing the tourists, terrifying the help. The only chance now, I felt, was the possibility that we'd gone to such excess that nobody in the position to bring the hammer down on us could possibility believe it.
The airport is over there!
Never missed a plane yet.
No! I can't get out! They'll crucify me. I'll have to take the blame!
Ridiculous! Just say you were hitchhiking to the airport and I picked you up. You never saw me before. Shit, this town is full of white Cadillac convertibles. I plan to go through there so fast that nobody will even glimpse the goddamn license plate. You ready?
Why not? But for Christ's sake, just do it fast!
Don't take any guff from those swine. Remember, if you have any trouble you can always send a telegram to the Right People.
Yeah... Explaining my Position. Some asshole wrote a poem about that once...
I want you to understand that this man at the wheel is my attorney! He's not just some dingbat I found on the Strip. He's a foreigner. I think he's probably Samoan. But it doesn't matter, does it? Are you prejudiced?
Hell, no!
I didn't think so. Because in spite of his race, this man is extremely valuable to me. Hell, I forgot all about this beer. You want one? How about some ether?
What?
Never mind. Let's get right to the heart of this thing. Twentyfour hours ago we were sitting in the Pogo Lounge of the Beverly Wills Hotel...
Thanks for the ride. Thanks a lot. I like you guys. Don't worry about me.
Wait a minute! Come back and have a beer!
Where ya comin' from, young man?
Las Vegas.
A great town, that Vegas. I bet you had good luck there. You're the type.
I know. I'm a triple Scorpio.
That's a fine combination. You can't lose.
Oh, my God!...
This is my granddaughter...
Don't worry... ...and I'm actually the District Attorney from Ignoto County. Just another good American like yourself.
I'm a whiskey man myself. We don't have much trouble from drugs where I come from...
You will. One of these nights you'll wake up and find a junkie tearing your bedroom apart.
Naw!
They'll climb right into your bedroom and sit on your chest with big Bowie knives. They might even sit on your wife's chest. Put the blade right down on her throat.
Not down in my parts.
What happened? What did they do to her?
Do? Jesus Christ, man. They chopped her goddamn head off right there in the parking lot! Then they cut all kinds of holes in her head and sucked out the blood!
And nobody did anything?
Yeh. The big guy used to be a major in the Marines.
A major!
We know where he lives, but we can't get near the house.
Naw! Not a major.
He wanted the pineal gland.
Really?
That's how he got so big. When he quit the Marines he was just a little guy.
Hell, I really hate to hear this. Because everything that happens in California seems to get down our way, sooner or later. Mostly Atlanta. But that was back when the goddamn bastards were peaceful. All we had to do was to keep 'em under surveillance. They didn't roam around much... But now Jesus, it seems nobody's safe.
You're going to need to take the bull by the horns  go to the mat with this scum.
What do you mean by that?
You know what I mean. We've done it before and we can damn well do it again!
Rum and ice, please.
You're another one of these California boys. Your friend here's been tellin' us about dope fiends.
They're everywhere. Nobody's safe. And sure as hell not in the South. They like warm weather... You'd never believe it. In L.A. it's out of control. First it was drugs, now it's witchcraft.
Witchcraft? Shit, you can't mean it!
Naw! That's science fiction stuff!
Not where we operate.
Naked!?
Naked.
Cut their goddamn heads off. Every one of them. That's what we're doing in California.
WHAT?
Hell, no. We'd never hear the goddamn end of it.
Dobermans don't talk.
What?
Sir? This telegram came for you. Actually, it isn't for you. It's for somebody named Thompson, but it says 'care of Raoul Duke'. Does that make sense?
Yes... It makes sense.
I checked the register for this man Thompson. We don't show him but I figured he might be part of your team.
He is. Don't worry, I'll get it to him.
What confused us was Dr. Gonzo's signature on the telegram from Los Angeles. When we knew he was right here in the hotel.
You did the right thing. Never try to understand a press message. About half the time we use codes  especially with Dr. Gonzo.
Tell me. When will the doctor be awake?
Awake? What do you mean?
Well... the manager, Mr. Heem, would like to meet him. Nothing unusual. Mr. Heem likes to meet all our large accounts... put them on a personal basis... just a chat and a handshake, you understand.
Of course. But if I were you, I'd leave the Doctor alone until after he's eaten breakfast. He's a very crude man.
But he will be available? Perhaps later this morning?
Look. That telegram was all scrambled. It was actually from Thompson, not to him. Western Union must have gotten the names reversed. I have to get going. I have to get out to the track.
There's no hurry! The race is over!
Not for me.
Let's have lunch!
Righto!
Of course, I could hear what the Clerk was really saying...
Listen, you fuzzy little shithead  I've been fucked around, in my time, by a fairly good crosssection of meantempered rulecrazy cops and now it's MY turn. "Fuck you, officer, I'm in charge here, and I'm telling you we don't have room for you."
Certainly, Mr. Duke!
My bags are out there in that white Cadillac convertible. Can you have someone drive it around to the room?
Oh, and could I get a quart of Wild Turkey, two fifths of Baccardi, and a night's worth of ice delivered to my room, please?
Don't worry about a thing, sir. Just enjoy your stay.
Well, thank you.
What's the message? My light is blinking.
Ah, yes. Mr. Duke? You have one message: "Call Lucy at the Americana Hotel, room 1600."
Holy shit!
Mr. Duke? Hello, Mr. Duke, I'm sorry we were cut off a moment ago... I thought I should call again, because I was wondering...
WHAT? What was that crazy bitch said to him? There's a war on, man! People are being killed!
Killed?
IN VIETNAM! ON THE GODDAMN TELEVISION!
Oh... yes... yes... This terrible war. When will it end?
Tell me. What do you want?
The woman who left that message for you sounded very disturbed. I think she was crying...
Crying? Why was she crying?
Well, uh. She didn't say Mr. Duke. But since I know you're here with the Police Convention...
Look, you want to be gentle with that woman if she ever calls again. We're watching her very carefully... this woman has been into laudanum. It's a controlled experiment, but I suspect we'll need your cooperation before this thing is over.
Well, certainly... We're always happy to cooperate with the police...
Don't worry. You're protected. Just treat this poor woman like you'd treat any other human being in trouble.
What? Ah... yes, yes, I see what you mean... Yes... so, you'll be responsible then?
Of course. And now I have to get back to the news. Send up some ice.
Are you ready to order here?
Well... sure. She will have the Seafood Salad Special. And I will have... the same.
Anything to drink?
Two Cokes.
Okay. Thanks.
Are you sure there's nothing else I can bring you?
I'll have one more Coke... Do you want another Coke, Stacy?
What do you do with the jackets people leave here?
We keep them.
You keep them.
We keep them, in case the people come back.
What's your other question?
My other question is... canIhave yourphonenumbersoIcanaskyou outsometime?
Do you have a pen? This one's out of ink.
Oh... yes.
Thanks for coming to get me.
Sure thing.
This is a nice car.
Yeah. It's my sister's.
Do you have Mrs. George for English?
Yeah. She is pretty good.
Yeah. She is pretty good.
Joey at Cinema Four said this is a pretty good restaurant.
I've heard that, too.
Do you know what you want?
I think I'll have the Seafood Salad Special.
Excellent.
Are you all right?
Oh yeah.
Do you mind if I excuse myself for a moment?
Not at all.
Sure. I'll... have another Coke.
Two more Cokes.
I had a really nice time tonight.
Me, too. I'm real sorry someone broke in and stole your tape deck.
I never thought it would happen at The Atlantis. Jeez.
Do you want to come inside?
Aren't your parents asleep?
No, they're away for the weekend. Brad and I are watching the house.
Okay. Sure. I'll come in.
Where's your brother?
I don't know. Probably out. Want something to drink?
No. That's okay.
Well, I'm going to change real quick. I hope you don't mind.
Naw. I don't mind.
So... pretty nice house you've got here.
Thanks. So... What do you want to do?
I don't know.
Do you want to see some pictures? I kept a lot of scrapbooks and pictures and stuff from junior high. How stupid, right?
Sure.
This is me in the eighth grade. Did you have Mr. Deegan?
Oh, yeah. I had Mr. Deegan.
...I've got to go home.
Do you really have to go?
Well... it's getting kind of late.
Where's Mike today?
Today's April 16th. Damone never comes to school on April 16th.
What's April 16th?
It's John Bonham's birthday.
John Bonham?
John Bonham. The drummer for Led Zeppelin. He died a couple years ago. Every birthday he stays home and plays everything John Bonham ever recorded. It's like his own holiday.
Oh. I see.
I made a fool of myself.
Nobody noticed. Don't worry about it. We'll just stay out here until everyone comes out, we'll blend back in.
What about the notes?
I'll get you the notes.
Hi, Mark.
Hi, Stacy. How are you?
I'm fine. Mark, I'm so glad you came over here because I want you to know something. I just thought I would tell you that I really enjoyed getting to know you this year.
Yeah? About fifty people I didn't know wrote that in my annual.
I know everybody says it, but I really mean it.
Really?
Yeah. I want you to have this picture, so you won't forget what I look like. And so you'll remember to call me over the summer.
Well, I don't know, I may be doing some traveling this summer. I don't know how much I'll be around... But I'll give you a call sometime.
I'd like that.
You look like you could still be in high school.
I know, everyone says that.
What can I get for you tonight.
How about your phone number?
Thanks for picking me up.
No problem.
'The Cuervo Gold, the fiine Columbian.' You look nice tonight.
Thanks. So do you.
Where do you feel like going?
I don't know. Wherever you want.
How about the point?
The point sounds fine.
All right, the point it is.
That's a nice shirt.
Thanks. Thanks a lot.
It's very warm out tonight.
It is. It's very warm. I wonder how long it will last?
Are you really nineteen?
Yes... I am really nineteen.
I think I better take you home.
What about those other guys you live with?
No. I mean back to your home.
Is this your first time?
Yes.
Yeah. I'm registered for this class.
What class?
This is U.S. History, right? I saw the globe in the window.
Really?
Can I come in?
Oh, please. I get so lonely when that third attendance bell rings and I don't see all my kids here.
Mr. Spicoli?
That's the name they gave me.
You just ripped my card in two!
Yes.
Hey, bud. What's your problem?
Hey! Wait a minute! There's no birthday party for me here!
Thank you, Desmond. What's the reason for your truancy?
I couldn't make it in time.
You mean, you couldn't? Or you wouldn't?
I don't know, mon. The food lines took forever.
Food will be eaten on your time! Why are you continuously late for this class, Mr. Spicoli? Why do you shamelessly waste my time like this?
I don't know.
Am I hallucinating here? Just what in the hell do you think you're doing?
Learning about Cuba. Having some food.
Mr. Spicoli, you're on dangerous ground here. You're causing a major disturbance in my class and on my time.
I've been thinking about this, Mr. Hand. If I'm here... and you're here... doesn't that make it our time?
You better save some for me, you swine!
And you, my friend. I'll see you for a twohour detention every afternoon this week.
Mr... Mr. Hand.
That's right, Jeff. Mind if I come in?
Were you going somewhere tonight, Jeff?
Yeah. The Graduation Dance Mr. Hand. It's the last school event of the year.
I'm afraid we've got some things to discuss here, Jeff.
Did I do something wrong, Mr. Hand?
Do you want to sit there, Jeff?
I don't know. I guess so.
Fine. You sit right here on your bed. I'll use the chair here. As I explained to your parents just a moment ago, and to you many times since the very beginning of the school year  I don't like to spend my time waiting for late students, or detention cases. I'd rather be preparing the lesson.
Now, Mr. Spicoli, comes a rare moment for me. Now I have the unique pleasure of squaring our account. Tonight, you and I are going to talk in great detail about the Davis Agreement, all the associated treaties, and the American Revolution in particular. Now if you can just turn to Chapter 47 of Lord of Truth And Liberty.
Hey, it's in my locker, Mr. Hand.
Well, then, I'm glad I remembered to bring an extra copy just for you.
I think I've made my point with you tonight.
Hey, Mr. Hand, can I ask you a question?
What's that?
Do you have a guy like me every year? A guy to... I don't know, make a show of. Teach other kids lessons and stuff?
Well, you'll find out next year.
No way, mon. When I graduate U.S. history I ain't even coming over to your side of the building.
If you graduate.
You're gonna flunk me?!
Don't worry, Spicoli. You'll probably squeak by.
All right! Oh, yeah!
Aloha, Mr. Hand!
Aloha, Spicoli.
How's it going.
Do you think that guy's cute?
Don't you like him?
Yeah, but I fucked up. You can take it. Really.
Come on, Stacy, it's your section and your man.
What should I do?
Just take his order, look him in the eye and if he says anything remotely funny, laugh a lot.
He gave me his card. 'Ron Johnson, Audio Consultant.'
Should we buy a frame for that?
Come on, Linda, I haven't had a boyfriend all summer. You promised when I started working at the mall that my life would change... Do you think he'll call this week?
Listen, Stace, you want to know about guys? I'll tell you. They're mostly chicken. Before I met Doug I chased after every guy I thought was cute. I thought if I gave out a vibe they'd get the message and call me up. Well, guess what? They don't call.
So what did you do?
I called them. If I was sitting next to a guy and I wanted to sit closer, I'd sit closer. If I wanted to kiss him, I'd just do it. You want Ron Johnson? Grab him.
I can't do that.
Face it. With some guys you have to make the first move. A lot of guys are just... wussies.
Really?
Stacy, what are you waiting for? You're fifteen. I did it when I was thirteen. It's no huge thing. It's just sex. If you don't, one of the other girls will.
He was hot, wasn't he?
If I didn't have a fianc in Chicago, I'd go for it.
I can't believe I start high school tomorrow.
Believe it.
I hear some surfer pulled a knife on Mr. Hand this morning.
No way! He just called him a dick.
God. People exaggerate so much at this school.
Linda. That girl looks just like Pat Benatar.
I know.
Do you think guys find that attractive?
Oh, give me a break, Stacy. You're much prettier than them.
Yeah but they look more sophisticated. You'd probably think they'd be better in bed.
What do you mean 'better in bed.' You either do it or you don't.
No there are variables that, like, I might not be good at.
What variables?
Like, you know, giving blow jobs.
What's the big deal?
Well I never did it.
There's nothing to it.
Just kidding. About 10cc.
Oh! That's where that group got its name from.
Was it great?
It was okay.
You'll always remember your first time.
It was nice.
So tell me, do you like Ron? Is it serious?
Come on, Linda. It's just sex.
Hey! That's my line!
There... There's his car. I know he's at work tonight. He hasn't come into Swenson's since he called my house. My mother told him I was still at high school, after I told him I was nineteen. I guess I should tell him I'm fifteen.
Don't you dare, you'll never hear from him again.
Does Doug care that you're seventeen?
Doug sees beyond that stuff to what the person inside is like. That's why I'm marrying him.
If he ever calls again I'll say I'm eighteen.
Boy I am so glad to be through with all these games.
You've got to get used to working Christmas. People are always screaming and yelling... then they get home and they're all Christmasy.
I think Christmas brings out the worst in people.
I guess Ron hasn't called yet.
Not since November.
Don't you think it meant anything to him. Even if I am fifteen?
Stacy. What does it matter? He's a stereo salesman. You want to marry him? You want to have kids with him? You want this guy to come home, fifty years old, and he's still got that little Pacific Stereo badge on? Come on.
I should quit this job. I'm going to get so fat working here... nobody will ever take me out.
Stacy. How many times do I have to tell you? You are really going to be beautiful... someday.
Thanks a lot.
What do you think of that guy who works at the theatre? You know, Mark Ratner.
Oh, come on. What is he? Fifteen?
Sixteen.
I sent a letter to Doug today. I'll be so glad when he gets out here.
You really ought to look at this, Linda. There's a drawing on every page... and all these quizzes. It's like school.
Why don't you put your mother's secret book back?
Listen to this... 'What are your mate's three most erogenous zones?'
Okay, penis, that's one, balls...
Wouldn't penis and balls be the same category?
You're right. Probably penis, mouth and neck.
All right! Here's another one. 'The most satisfactory lovemaking occurs when your mate climaxes first, you climax first, you and your mate climax together?'
Climax together.
Does that ever happen?
No. But it's a nice idea.
Listen to this... it says 'Most women derive pleasure from sex, but they don't have real orgasms.'
How long does Doug take?
I don't know. Thirty to forty minutes.
What's Doug do in Chicago?
He works for the airline. He'll be out here. You'll meet him.
What do you think?
I think they're both virgins.
I didn't ask for any help. Did you, Linda?
No.
God, he hardly even talks anymore.
I know. He hates to have to wear uniforms.
Stacy! I've got water in my ears. Do you have any QTips?
God, I don't think so. Better look in the house.
God, Stacy, it's not that sad. It's just David Soul and Ricardo Montalban.
I don't know, I'm just so depressed. Everything is just so... depressing.
You have been acting very strange the last few weeks.
I don't know... I just don't feel right.
What do you think it is?
What do you think it is?
It couldn't be.
It could be. I had a pregnancy test at the clinic. I'll find out Monday. I guess it was Damone.
Of course it was Damone. If it was Ron Johnson, you'd be out to here!
I'm not going to tell him. He's an asshole. I hate him.
But it costs money to have an abortion. Even at the Free Clinic. You tell Damone to pay for it. It's the least he can do. It's the guy's responsibility too.
You know, there's one thing you didn't tell me about guys.
What?
You didn't tell me that they can be so nice, so great... but then you sleep with them and they start acting like they're five years old.
You're right. I didn't tell you that.
I really thought he would show up. I waited... and waited... and waited...
That little prick.
Then I called his house, and his mother told me he was in the garage helping his father.
That little prick.
I paid for it and everything.
There goes your stereo for another year. Mike Damone is a nobrain little prick. I'm not letting him get away with this.
Don't do anything, Linda. I'd rather just forget about it. I don't even like the guy.
Stacy, he's not a guy. He's a little prick!
Another summer of working at Swenson's.
Come on. There's lots of men around here. Keep your eyes open.
You know, Linda. I've finally figured it out. It's not sex I want. Anyone can have sex.
What do you want?
I want romance.
Romance in Ridgemont? We don't even get cable TV.
Where's Doug?
He's not coming.
Not coming? What happened?
He says he's got to stay in Chicago. He says I should visit him sometimes.
Sometime?
Yeah, like maybe never.
But what are you going to do?
Well I might go to Dartmouth.
Dartmouth?!
I didn't tell anyone I applied cause I never thought I'd make it.
I can't believe it! But what about Doug?
There's a world of guys out there. I just wish I didn't have to date any of them.
Hey  Doug Stallworth? It's his loss.
Hey, slow down. This is my brother's car.
I thought he was out of town.
He is.
Then don't hassle it.
Seen the new Playboy?
Naw. Any good?
Suzanne Somers' tits.
All right.
I like sex.
What the fuck is this guy doing?
This ain't no cop.
It's a bunch of Jocks in a Granada!
They're fuckin' with us.
My brother's car!
All right. Die, Granada Jocks!
We just missed the turnoff to the party.
You know the thing I love about Mustangs? The steering wheel.
My brother is going to kill us. He's gonna kill you and then he's gonna kill me. He's gonna kill us.
Just be glad you're all right.
My brother is gonna shit.
Make up your mind. Is he gonna shit, or is he gonna kill us?
First he's gonna shit. And then he's gonna kill us.
Will you just relax, mon? He's not gonna kill us. My father is a television repairman. He's got all kinds of tools. I can fixthis car.
You can't fix this car, Spicoli.
That's him! He did it!
Hey, mon, I don't know what your trip is, but...
How've you been?
Outrageous, Merv. Nice to be here. I feel great.
I was going to say... your eyes look a little red.
I've been swimming, Merv.
Seriously, Merv, everything is great. I was thinking about picking up some hash this weekend, maybe going up to the mountains.
I wanted to talk a little bit about school, if I could...
School. School is no problem. All you have to do is go to get the grades. And if you know something, all you have to do is go about half the time.
How often do you go?
I don't go at all.
I hear you brought a film clip with you. Do you want to set it up for us?
Well, it pretty much speaks for itself. Peter, you want to run with it?
Merv, this is the action down at Sunset Cliffs at about six in the morning.
Fascinating.
Who's that?
That's me, Merv.
Are you going to ride that wave?
Totally.
What's going through your mind right here, Jeff? The danger of it all?
Merv, I'm thinking... I've only got about four good hours of surfing left before these little clowns from junior high start showing up with their boogie boards.
Are you Linda Barrett?
Yes.
I'm Carrie Frazier from Toys 'R Us. Judy Hinton from May Company told me I could ask you something.
All right, what you want to do is go to the Free Clinic and tell the doctor that you have sex regularly  several times a week  and that you need Nornel One Plus Fifty's.
And they don't call my parents?
Not if you're over sixteen.
Okay. Thanks a lot, Linda.
And don't let them talk you into a diaphragm either.
Do you ever look at those girls who work at Swenson's? They're beautiful. And I have to stand out here and watch them six nights a week.
You should work for yourself.
You... are a wuss. Part wimp. Part pussy.
What do you mean  wuss? This girl is my exact type. It's her. Definitely her.
It's definitely your mama.
Damone, you gotta listen to me.
All right... where did you see her?
She's in my biology class.
Did you get her number?
No.
Did you get her name?
No. It's too soon.
It's never too soon! Girls decide how far to let you go in the first five minutes.
Well, what do you want me to do? Go up to this strange girl in my biology class and say, 'Hello! I'd like you to take your clothes off and jump on me?'
I would. Yeah.
Really?
I can see it all now. This is going to be just like the girl you fell in love with at Fotomat this summer. You bought forty bucks of fuckin' film and you never even talked to her.
You tell me, Mike. What do I do?
Okay. Okay. Here's what you do.
Don't talk to her. Let her know. Use your face. Use your body. Use everything. This is what I do. I just sent out the vibe and I have personally found that... girls do respond. Something happens.
Of course something happens. You put the vibe out to thirty million chicks, you know something's gonna happen.
That's the idea, Rat. That's The Attitude.
The Attitude? The Attitude dictates that you don't care if she comes, stays, lays or prays. Whatever happens, your toes are still tappin'. When you are the cruelest and the coolest... then you have The Attitude.
The business is changing, Rat. I'll tell you, these kids today... they don't even listen to Aerosmith.
I hear they all dress like that at Lincoln now.
There used to be three or four of those guys. Now we see 'em every time we come to the mall.
Hey, Rat.
Yeah?
Ace the jacket.
Knock it off, Damone. I need real help.
What do you mean? Men have died trying to obtain this information. I will give it to you for free.
Okay. Tell me. What's the Five Point Plan?
All right. Pay attention.
And that is how you talk to a girl, Rat. Voila. You can't miss.
I think I've got it. Once I get going, I'll be okay. But... how do I get started? I mean, I hardly know her.
You wuss. It's no problem. One person says something to the other and that's how it starts...
Yo.
Damone. It's Mark.
Mark. What happened to your date?
It's happening right now. I'm here at the Atlantis. Everything's fine except... I left my wallet at home.
Did you go home and get it?
No. It's too late. The food is coming and everything. Damone, I've got to ask you this favor, and I'll never ask you for anything again in this lifetime or any other. Will you please borrow your mom's car, go by my house, get my wallet, and meet me back here?
Damone, are you there?
I'm really pretty busy...
Hey, Mark. Is that you?
Damone! You come here?
I come for the seafood. It's great! Hey... you know what, Mark? I found your wallet the other day. You want it back?
Wow. I've been looking for that thing! Hey, Damone, have you met Stacy Hamilton? Stacy, this is Mike Damone.
Well, I've gotta be running.
Okay. See ya.
Poor guy.
Really.
No. I don't think so. Not right now.
Chicken!
If you ask me, she's pretty aggressive. You understand what I'm saying?
No Damone. I don't understand.
She wasn't really your girlfriend anyway.
Hey fuck you Damone. There's a lot of girls out there and you mess around with Stacy. What have you got to prove?
Jesus. I'm sorry.
I always stick up for you. Whenever people say 'Aw, that Damone is a loudmouth'  and they say that a lot  I say 'You just don't know Damone.' When someone says you're an idiot, I tell them 'Damone's not an idiot. You just don't know him.' Well, you know, Damone, maybe they do know you pretty good. And I'm just finding out.
Fine. Get lost.
You're losing it, Damone.
You're crazy. Those girls love me.
The Attitude, Damone, is only good until you meet the right girl.
Whatever you say, Rat.
And... you can only tell it's the right girl if you're sensitive.
Sensitive  what is that?
Sensitive is when you can tell how people feel without asking.
So what makes you so sensitive?
Well, for one, I read. I don't watch as much television as you. I'm trying to feel things more. I'm learning a lot about people.
What do you read? What's the last book you read?
Lust For Life. It's the story of Vincent Van Gough.
Yeah, well, I saw the movie. That must mean I'm sensitive too.
It's a way, Damone. It's a vibe. I put it out, and I have personally found that girls do respond.
Nice to meet you, Stacy.
Nice to meet you.
Hey! We came over to help you with Math homework!
Oh, really?
Well, that's exactly why I brought some Wisk for the jacuzzi.
Okay, you guys can come swimming. But you have to leave as soon as my Mom gets home. Okay?
I can't wait until I can drive next year. I walk every day. It's such a drag.
Get a ride with somebody.
Sometimes I get a ride with my brother. But he usually works in the mornings, and then drives to school himself.
What a guy.
You know Mark Ratner really likes you. You like him?
Mark is a really nice boy...
Do you have any ice tea?
Sure. Come on in.
I guess the annuals are coming in pretty soon. Are you going to get one?
I don't know.
Aren't you curious to see how your class picture turned out?
I know what I look like.
Do you want to take a quick swim?
Well...
Brad probably has some trunks you can borrow... I'm going to my room to change!
Pick a suit.
I don't know. It's getting pretty late...
Are you really a virgin?
Come on...
Listen. I feel pretty strange here. Because Mark really likes you, and he's my friend.
He's my friend, too.
You're a really good kisser.
So are you. Are you shaking?
No. Are you crazy?
Why don't you take off your clothes, Mike?
You first.
How about both of us at the same time?
I want you to know that it's your final decision if we should continue or not.
Let's continue.
Hey, Mike?
What? Are you all right?
I think we're making a lot of noise.
I'm sorry. I'm really sorry.
What's wrong?
I think I came. Didn't you feel it?
I guess I did.
Oh. Hi.
I didn't see you this morning.
Look, I'm kind of in a hurry.
I'm in a hurry too. I just thought I could say hi to you.
Hello.
What's going on?
Mike, there's something that's been on my mind and I have to tell you about it.
What? Now?
Why don't you call me up tonight?
Mike. I want you to know that I'm pregnant.
How do you know it's mine? We only did it once.
I know it's yours.
Take that back.
All right, I take it back.
There's only one thing we can do. We've got to get rid of it. We've got to get an abortion.
We've got to get an abortion?
Yeah. My brother Art got his girlfriend one once.
It's already planned, Mike. It's going to cost $150 at the Free Clinic.
Doesn't sound free to me. So you want me to pay for it?
Half. Okay? Seventyfive dollars. And a ride to the clinic.
Seventyfive dollars, and a ride. Okay.
Mike! You have a mess on C9!
All right. All right. I just cleaned B8. Give me a break.
Get going.
Dad says you have to get up!
Ugh.
Leave me alone!
Dad says you're late again, you butthole!
Leave me alone.
Dad says!
Jeff you have company!
Go away, Curtis. If you can't knock, I can't hear you.
Any problems?
No, just a couple of surfers with no shirts on. I took care of it, Dennis.
Did you throw away those fries, Hamilton?
They were left over from the last shift.
Those were perfectly good fries, Hamilton. Perfectly good.
But they weren't mine.
Come on. Clean that counter off Brad. Let's go. Play ball.
Okay, Dennis.
Did you threaten this man or use profanity in any way?
He insulted me first. He called me a moron.
Did you threaten this customer or use profanity in any way?
Yes, sir.
You're fired.
Hi, Brad.
Sis.
Everyone wants to know where Lisa is. How should I know where Lisa is? What am I gonna do? Now my little sister goes to the same high school. The party's over. So who do you have first period?
U.S. History. Mr. Hand.
Heyyo.
Mom says to clean up the pool.
Why can't you do it?
Your friends use the pool. Your friends messed it up.
Your friends use the pool too.
I take out the garbage.
Don't strain yourself.
Brad! Have Mom or Dad seen this?
They're not home yet.
Brad, what would you say if I asked you to just put these flowers in the trunk of the Cruising Vessel and get rid of them at work?
I'd say... who the hell is Ron Johnson?
I'll explain everything later.
Thanks for getting rid of those flowers.
Don't worry about it. Who sent the flowers?
It's just some guy I met at Swenson's. You don't know him.
I don't care it you tell me or not. I got problems of my own.
Is everything okay at work?
Are you kidding? Work is great. I kill at work. I don't even mind Mom and Dad making me pay rent.
You're going to break up with Lisa, aren't you?
I've been doing some thinking. It's my last school year. I'm a single, successful guy. I think I want my freedom.
Why? Because she won't sleep with you?
Where did you hear that?
I'm just guessing.
Well... it's true.
Maybe you just need to give her some time. She's so nice, Brad. Everybody loves Lisa.
Everybody loves Lisa. Everybody loves Lisa. But everybody doesn't have to be her boyfriend.
Hey, Brad. Are you still a virgin?
Why?
I don't know. I was just curious.
Maybe yes. Maybe no.
You are a virgin!
I didn't say that.
But your face did!
Are you still a virgin?
Maybe yes. Maybe no.
Don't give me that shit! I know you're still a virgin!
Does Mom know you have company?
It's just Linda. And Mark from school.
Yeah. This is it. I have some shopping to do.
See you later.
Thanks a lot, Brad. I really appreciate it.
Since when do you shop at the Flea Market anyway?
Brad. Please don't tell Mom and Dad...
You're not going to tell me, are you?
No.
All right, then. It's your secret.
Well, I believe you have to fill out a form. There's a pad right around here.
No. I want my money back right now.
Well, that's not the way it works, really. And you ate most of your food already, too...
See that sign? It says 100% Money Back Guarantee. Do you know the meaning of the word 'guarantee'? Do they teach you that here? Give me my money back.
I can't do that. But if you wait a minute...
Look. Just put your little hand back in the cash register and give me my $2.75 back. Okay? Please, Brad?
I'm sorry, sir. Just let me find the forms here.
I am so tired. I am so tired of dealing with morons. How hard is it to...
Mister, if you don't shut up, I'm gonna kick 100% of your ass.
Manager!!
Hamilton, come over here. What is that you've got on?
This is how I dress all the time.
But you took off your Captain Kidd uniform.
I thought I'd take it off for the drive over to IBM. It's kind of uncomfortable.
Come on, Hamilton. You're going over there to represent Captain Kidd Fish and Chips. We have stores all over Southern California. Part of our image, part of our appeal is in our uniforms. You know that!
You really want me to put all this stuff back on?
Yes. I think so. Show some pride, Hamilton.
Something happened to them, mon.
Come on, Spicoli. Why don't you just put your shirts back on? See the sign?
Go ahead. Just make it quick.
Totally.
It's the first door on your left.
I can't find it, mon!
It's the first door on your left!
On the ledge?
First door on your left!
There it is!
Easy, mon.
Later.
Were those flowers really for me, Brad?
Of course.
How much did they cost?
Don't worry about it.
What's there to do at the Point? God, Lisa, we've been going together almost two years, and...
Brad. I don't want to have to use sex as a tool.
Tool? Tool for what? We've been going together almost two years!
I don't want to talk about it here, Brad.
Man, I don't even want to see those guys from Carl's again.
If you'd apologize I think Dennis would take you back.
Apologize to that wimp? No way. Fuck Dennis Taylor.
I'm just glad we're still together, Lisa, because I need you this year.
Look, Brad, I've been trying to think of a way to tell you this. We're almost out of high school, this is our last year. I think we owe it to ourselves to be free, and meet some new people. Then, if we get back together, we'll know it's the right thing.
Brad, can I talk to you a minute?
Arnold. What's happening?
Brad, I really fuckin' hate McDonald's, man. Ever since they started in with the chicken, everything went downhill.
You want to work at Carl's?
Oh, man, if you could swing something there, I'd do anything for you. I want to work with you guys.
I can probably get you in there. Just let me talk to Dennis Taylor.
All right!!
'Scuse me.
I know it can't be easy. Life hasn't changed that much for Reed, Sue and Johnny. At least they can go out in public. But for you? People staring. Whispering behind your back...
If you're trying to cheer me up you're doing a helluva job 
I'm just saying, I know what it's like to lose something you love. To see it slip away, and know it's never coming back.
Reed's gonna fix me up 
For your sake I hope you're right. I'm sorry if that sounds a little skeptical.
Skeptical...?
It's just business.
I think you both know my Director of Genetic Research, Susan Storm.
Surprised I agreed to Reed's proposal?
I understand the business reasons.
Well, when you're looking at your future, it never hurts to find closure about the past.
It's been a good two years, Victor... The company's accomplished so much.
Right, of course, the company... But you see, I've come to realize all the accomplishments in the world mean nothing without someone to share them with 
Uh, Victor, I hope I haven't done something to make you think...
Sue, I've lived my life unafraid of taking big steps. And this is the biggest step yet. If it helps, think of this as a promotion. A merger of sorts... Four little words that can change our lives...
What are you doing?
Raising the shields.
You can't leave them out there.
What's going on?
Victor, are you feeling alright?
Victor, I'm sorry I 
Just find him.
Victor, your scar 
I told you, I'm fine. It's you I'm worried about.
I'm sorry I didn't get a chance to 
Please, no apologies. I've arranged for your things to be moved to one of my condos. You'll have roundthe clock care.
You said it was urgent.
It is. There's something we need to talk about. Something I need to ask you...
Victor, wait, slow down a second. I want you to know I appreciate everything you've done for me, but I just don't 
Susan. What are you doing?
He's working round the clock. But the data needs to be tested, analyzed before 
Same old Reed. All analysis, no action. Wasn't that the problem with you two?
If these molecules aren't stable, they could make us worse, maybe even kill us.
Then why is Reed dragging his feet? Maybe he likes having his prize specimen under glass... It's ironic, isn't it? You're finally the perfect woman for him... because you're his science project.
Please don't make this personal 
Oh, I think you already have.
Victor, we can't do anything until the research is ready.
But dreams don't pay the bills, do they? Same old Reed, the hopeless optimist. Still reaching for the stars, with the world on your back.
You remember in school we talked about working together. That's what I was about to explain...
This isn't going to be a problem, is it?
Not at all.
You back this mission, and I'll sign over a fair percentage of any applications or 
The number's seventyfive. And it's applications and patents.
Funny how things turn out, isn't it?
Hilarious.
Got it. So take a walk, Ben... I'm going to borrow Susan for a second.
Sure.
We've got minutes until it hits, not hours... Victor, that storm's deadly  the radiation's lethal. We need to abort.
Get a grip. Reed. We didn't come all this way to lose our nerve at the first little glitch. Just close the shields...
Ben's still out there 
So reel him in. But we came here to do a job. So let's do it. Quickly.
Come on, Ben, come on...
Reed, we're running out of time.
Not until Ben is back inside!
It's too late for him, and soon it'll be too late for all of us.
Just a little banged up. A couple scrapes. Why?
Ben did this.
Ben did this?
He's had some kind of... reaction to exposure from the cloud. And he's not the only one.
I'm starting to wonder the same thing... How much do you know about what happened to you?
Not much. We need to run tests to see the extent of the damage.
Didn't go as planned? It was a catastrophe. You ruined the lives of four people 
I ruined? With all due respect, I told you to abort 
Abort? Reed, I put my company, my name, billions of dollars on the line, and I will not let you make me look like a fool 
Victor, if we could understand what happened to us 
I don't want to understand it. This isn't one of your science projects. I just want to fix it. Fast!
What are you doing here?
What I should have done a long time ago. Applications and patents, Reed. This all belongs to me.
But I'm not done with the machine 
Which is precisely the point. Analysis is over. It's time for action. My men could have massproduced this by now.
You're, you've, I mean, how have you bee
Never better.
Those solar winds are flaring, but I factored them into my coordinates and 
I was talking about us. Working together.
Well, uh, based on our history... you can handle the biogenetics, and I'll focus on the molecular physics. Or, uhm, maybe I should take the biotech, you work the microscopes, since you have some background in electropho
Right. That's exactly what I meant.
I, uh, think I remember the number.
It's been changed.
As far as crew, I was hoping Ben could pilot the mission 
Well, he's welcome to ride shotgun, but we already have a pilot on our payroll. You remember my brother Johnny...
Material made from selfregulating unstable molecules. I've been working on a formula for this.
Great minds think alike.
Feeling better?
Yes, thanks.
That's good. That's uh... good.
You always had a way with words. I should be getting back.
You're happy for me and Victor.
I can tell you guys are enjoying what was the best part of our relationship 
Which was?
Passion.
For science.
You are such a dork, Reed... You never got it and never will unless it's explained to you in quantum physics.
Uh, Sue...? I can't.
What? What do you mean you 
Sue... look at your hands.
It has to be the cloud. It's fundamentally altered our DNA.
Let's not jump to conclusions, we need a massive amount of evidence before making that leap.
What?
We need to get past them.
Sue. Your clothes. Lose them.
What...? Oh.
How come Ben can't turn it on and off like us?
That's what we're here to find out.
If it happened to him, then it could...
It's not "invisibility" per se. You're bending the light around you with some kind of malleable force field. That's what you projected on the Bridge.
What about you? You haven't eaten in days. How come you're never on this side of the microscope?
You should be able to bend light around other objects, even people, if you could control your emotional state better 
Excuse me?
I'm saying, if you had a little more self control, you could locate the trigger. Can you remember the exact emotions when 
Anger. Rage. Frustration.
Okay. Is there any way to duplicate that feeling? Some memory or...
I'm sure I can come up with something.
I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I didn't mean to do that... You must think that was some kind of latent hostility or 
What in the world would give me that idea?
I mean, you broke up with me, right?
Are you kidding?
No, I distinctly remember: you walked out my door. Ergo...
Reed. I was ready for the next step, you weren't, ergo, I walked.
I think it was a little more complicated than 
I just wanted to share an apartment. What was so complicated about that?
There were a lot of variables to consider 
No. There weren't. There was you. And me. No variables, no math. It was actually the simplest thing in the world. But your head got in the way... like it always does.
What are you doing?
The plants, from space. Their particles are still charged. With the right amount of energy, those ions could create the elemental profile of the cosmic storm.
If we can build a machine to recreate the storm, we can reverse the polarity 
And reverse the mutations 
Curing countless diseases, not just ours.
But we're the focus, right Reed? Reed...?
Of course. Of course.
And you sure you can control this thing? Last time didn't work out so well.
With the right energy, we can stabilize the storm. Maybe tie into the city grid...
Reed. How close are we to a cure?
No way to know. Without more tests, experiments.
Don't let Victor push you into making a mistake 
He was going to take away all my data, equipment 
Better than your life. Victor's not the one who has to get into that thing. We are.
Which is why I'm working twenty hours a day, checking every variable 
Every variable but yourself. You don't eat, sleep. You can't live in your head like 
I'm not the only one in there. I got you, Vic, Ben, Johnny, all rattling around in there.
I could get Ben to tap into the Baxter's main power to generate enough voltage 
Reed. Shh. Just be quiet. And look up.
Remember our first date here...? God, I was so nervous.
You were?
Of course I was. I'd read all your papers on bioethics. Some of them two times just so I'd have something to say to you.
You know, I bribed the projectionist ten bucks to keep it open late?
I gave him twenty.
You always talked about how you liked the kind of man who could approach you... speak his mind. One who wasn't afraid to tell you what he wanted.
I did. I did, Reed... but I wanted you to be that man.
When I walked out, I waited ten minutes outside your door. Ten. Waiting for you to come find me.
Why didn't you say something?
That would have kinda defeated the purpose. And Reed... I'm saying it now.
I can... make it work.
Reed, stop, you need to rest your 
The power... I need... more power... to control... the storm 
You need a doctor.
Sue, I need some of that anger, rage, frustration 
I'm sure I can come up with something.
I found a broken gasket, from space 
A gasket? Reed, we're at a party.
If Reed's right, then this little trip will double our stock offering.
And if he's not...?
Reed's always right. Good thing he doesn't always know what he's got...
They're ready for you, sir.
Showtime.
Our numbers are through the roof. The IPO's tracking at fifty, sixty a share. The bank's five times oversubscribed 
It's not just the money. I could make money in my sleep.
Then what is it?
History, Leonard. History. Everything else is conversation... How's the other matter?
Leonard, how's the feed?
Recording, sir. We see you perfectly.
How's the IPO?
Stable. We're looking at low twenties. It's a good number, considering the fallout from 
Reed's disaster. You know, I half think he did this to me on purpose.
Sir, I'm sure he wouldn't put himself 
Get me on the AM shows, Larry King, cover of the Journal... I've got to do something about this scar. Make sure they only shoot my right side.
Actually, uh, people seem to think the scar "humanizes" you.
And that's a good thing?
You know, maybe you should get some rest 
Later. First, I've got some unfinished business. A deal that needs closing...
Sir, I've always wondered... Why Sue? You could have any woman in the world but 
That's why. Because I could have any other woman... You know, when they asked Caesar "why England," he said, "because it's not mine."
Make sure you find Ben, bring him back here. And keep it quiet. I don't need this to hit the press.
Yes sir. You've got the Mayor at eight, then a ninethirty interview with the Journal 
Front page?
Top left, like you asked. Today Wall Street. Tomorrow, who knows... maybe Washington.
The synthetics act as a second skin, adapting to your individual needs to 
Keep the hot side hot, and the cool side cool!
Apparently I can disappear.
Please tell me you go silent too.
Flame on, flame off. Flame on, flame off 
Johnny.
Stop it.
Okay, "mom."
What is that thing?
I think that thing is Ben.
Wait. You mean there's chance we could be fullon247fantastic?
Grow up, Johnny. You want to run around on fire for the rest of your life?
Is that a trick question? C'mon, I can't be the only one who thinks this is cool.
You're really cramping my style here.
You were at 4000 Kelvin. Any hotter, you're approaching supernova 
Sweet.
That's the temperature of the sun.
Uh, we call my sister the invisible girl... the Invisible Girl.
Girl...?!
I'm driving.
Dude. That's my sister.
You're gonna pay for that, Pebbles. What?!
You gave us names? What are you, the "face" of the Fantastic Four now?
You two need a timeout.
Blockhead started it!
Johnny? Did you see Ben?
Yeah, for the last time, I hope. I'm done with this freak show. I'm moving back to the real world.
Is that what you call it? "Real"?
At least it beats living in a lab like somebody's science project.
Johnny, slow down. Think. You know mom didn't raise us to 
Look around, sis! She's not here. So you can stop talking to me like I'm your little boy 
As soon as you stop acting like one. Come on, you're smarter than this. You think those people out there care about you? You're just a fad to them.
I'm sorry, sis, for leaving you guys 
No, I'm sorry, for pushing you out.
What are you doing 
Sis. Let me take care of you for once.
But Johnny... you can't fly.
Victor's right. Johnny, get to the command center. Close the shields.
What about you?
He's not responsive 
Ben! Ben!
Now what is up with that?
The cloud has fundamentally altered our DNA.
Cool. What'd it do to you guys?
Oh, you dawg you. Better not be my nurse!
Ben, are you there?
This is wrong in so many ways.
You've been working out.
Ben Grimm is a genuine American hero who's been through a terrible orde
What he's trying to say is: every team needs a mascot...
Twenty? From outside the place looks a lot taller.
Oh, it is.
We should stay here until we can define the extent of our changes...
This place is deluxe. You got cable?
...and figure out how to reverse them. Let me show you to your rooms.
Back it down, Johnny!
I can go hotter!
Not only could you kill yourself, but you could set fire to Earth's atmosphere and destroy all human life as we know it.
Gotcha. Okay. Supernova bad.
Is there something about flames? About flaming, that you 
What are you trying to say? Just because I dress well and like to dance 
What? No. I'm trying to figure out why we each ended up with different symptoms.
Oh, well that's easy: I'm hot. You're... well, you're a little limp. Sue's easy to see through. And Ben's always been a hardass. Why aren't you writing this down?
He's right. These costumes are... missing something. I can't put my finger on it 
They're not costumes.
That's what I'm trying to calculate. And it's not rubber. It's muscle, tendon. I seem to have the ability to manipulate the malleability of my molecular structure and redistribute my density to 
Right, whatever, have fun.
You need to control yourself and think before you 
Act. Here we go again. Reed, what if we got these gifts for a reason? What if we have some, you know... like, calling?
A higher calling like getting girls and making money?
Johnny. SUPERNOVA.
But all these people...
Now.
And where do we think we're going?
I don't know if "we've" noticed, but the sickest runs this side of the Alps are right outside that window 
You're hot!
So are you!
I mean, you feel a little feverish.
I've never felt better in my life. When do you get off work?
My shift ends at four, but I couldn't 
Meet me at 4:01, top of the run. That'll give you a minute to freshen up.
Me likey.
Stay right. Left is trouble.
I though we went over this.
Last one down springs for room service.
You're on fire!
Not this again 
No: You're ON FIRE!
Your tissue, your organs, your entire biophysical structure is changing. Every system is still functioning, somehow 
And they're changing into...
I don't really know. A compound organicmetallic alloy. Stronger than titanium or carbon steel. Harder than diamonds 
Like the shields Reed said would protect us. How long?
At this rate, the infection should be complete in two, maybe three weeks 
What do you mean "complete"?
I wish I could tell you. I can't pretend to know what we're dealing with here. I'll notify the CDC and 
What?
The Center for Disease Control. If this thing is contagious 
But... this disease... is progressive... degenerative...
That's terrible news...
What the hell you smiling at? Just keep your mouth shut, and your mind on those SMBs 
Actually, the engines are SMEs. Hydrogenbase, carbon propellant. Couple generations past your last ride. I'm not as dumb as you look.
If you behave, maybe next time daddy'll let you drive.
Keep talking, there won't be a next time.
Please tell me your dawg's not trying to rekindle things with my sister.
'Course not. Strictly business.
Yeah, well, his eyes say different.
Hey, two hearts got busted last time. Maybe she's not over it either.
Let's see: you got Victor, stud of the year, more coin than God? Or Reed, the world's dumbest smart guy worth less than a postage stamp. Hmmm, it's a tossup.
Put your tiny little mind at ease.
Don't you wander off, boy.
Where... where am I?
Back on Earth. Victor's medical facility... We're in quarantine.
Reed?... Sue?
They're fine. Everybody else... is fine.
What's wrong with me?
I swear to you they've done everything humanly possible. The best plastic surgeons in the world, Ben. You had the best 
Give me a mirror...
They said that's not such a good idea, the shock alone could 
Give me the god damn mirror!
Hey! That's a prototype!
Go back to the drawing board.
The machine works. And Vic's gone Mister Hyde on us 
Really? With a name like Von Doom? Never saw that one coming.
No more cracks about how I look.
Hey, I'm Mr. Sensitivity now. Clear the way, wide load coming through.
Good thing it ain't workin... Reed, what are we doing here? This guy's fastfood, stripmall science 
This wasn't our first stop, in case you forgot NASA. And Victor's not that bad. He's just a little... Larger than life.
He's financed some of the biggest breakthroughs of this century.
You'd never know it.
I can't take this.
Ben. This is business. Just work.
What about his first born?
Ben, the money's not important. We could save lives.
He knew about NASA. What if he made the call to shut us down 
Ben, think about all the people we can help if this works 
Maybe you should think about yourself for once. You always let this guy push you round 
We got what we wanted. That's enough.
I know, I know. I'm just worried about what he wants... Speaking of which...
Can't do it. I cannot do it.
External SRBs, orbital system engines. Its just like the shuttles you flew in 
No. I cannot take orders from that underwear model. That wingnut washed out of NASA for sneaking two Victoria Secret wannabes into a flight simulator.
Youthful high spirits.
They crashed it into a wall. A flight simulator.
I'm sure he's matured since then.
When have I asked you to do something you absolutely said you could not do?
Five times.
I had it at four.
This makes five.
Isn't that your speech?
He's made a few changes.
This is your dream, Reed. You should be the one up there.
Victor's better at these things.
The shields on the station should protect us.
Should?
I ain't done arranging your flowers, egghead.
Ben. This is serious. Turn around.
How long was I out?
Three days. I was worried about you. How are you feeling?
Solid.
I don't know. I just keep going over and over the numbers.
Reed. Even you can't compute every little thing.
I should have done more, run more tests 
You go through something like this, makes you appreciate having the right woman in your life.
Yeah, you and Debbie and perfect 
Reed, I'm not talking about Debbie.
What? Come on. She's got a good thing with Victor 
I'm sorry, did that cosmicbath loosen your screws?
He's smart, powerful, successful 
Well maybe you should date him.
Are you alright?
I think I need to lie down. Bad shrimp.
What the !
Ben. Are you okay?
Am I okay?! You wanna explain that?!
We had a tough year.
Yeah, nine years straight.
You got a chisel round here?
If we're going to identify the source of the mutation, we need to isolate your recombinant DNA so we can activate positional genomes.
Okay. I've uh, got some questions, from Sue. That she thought might be better coming from me... Can you, you know, go to the bathroom... like normal...
Yeah. You don't wanna know the details.
Ben, I'm afraid I've got to ask 
Not unless you want that clipboard stretched up your 
Okay. We'll skip that question.
It's about to be a broken face.
This isn't permanent, Johnny. We need to be careful until we're normal again.
Ben 
Oh, you remember my name do you? You happen to remember what you swore to do with every breath in your body?
We're working as hard as we can 
Yeah. I can tell. Victor was right.
Glad "nothing" could take you away from your work.
Ben, I don't know if this thing'll change us back or make us worse. I need you to be patient for a little while longe
Time for your lesson, Vic. Chem 101: what happens when you supercool hot metal...? Ben...
Got it, teach.
Ben, I've been crunching the numbers on the machine. I think if we can rework the power settings...
Forget it, egghead. I'm good as is.
I'll be watching over you.
Just get back soon, or I start looking for a new groom.
Soon as I'm back, I'm gonna trade that in for a bigger rock.
I don't care about rocks, I care about you. You bring him back in one piece, or you can forget being Best Man.
Deb... It's me. I need you to step out front.
Out front? You home, baby? I got a surprise for you.
Ben?
Don't come any closer for a sec. This is gonna be kind of a shock... You remember when we said "together forever no matter what"?
Baby, you're scaring me.
Oh my Ggg. What did you... do to Ben?
Deb, it's me. It's still me.
What did you wish for, honey?
I already got it. Everything I want.
What are you doing here?
I'm worried about you.
About me? How sweet.
Come on. Let me buy you something to eat. Looks like you could use the company.
Ben, come in.
What is this? Where's Reed?
Where do you think? With Sue.
What do you want, Vic?
To help you. I've run every test known to man. And they all yield the same result: the machine is ready.
Reed said it'd be weeks till 
He also said we'd avoid that storm in space. And we know how that turned out.
He couldn't generate enough power for the machine to reach critical mass. Yet another mistake for "Mr. Fantastic."
And you can? Power it up?
Way to not overthink it. So when do we leave?
I'll schedule the launch. Call me in the morning to talk about resources and crew.
I can handle the ship. I can even handle Mr. Blonde Ambition. But I don't know if I should be flying or playing Vegas in these suits. Who the hell came up with them?
Victor did.
We can monitor the cloud's approach and observe the tests from here.
Is it safe?
I can only stay for one drink, Ben. I've got to meet with Victor.
Wouldn't want to keep Vic waiting.
We need to give you a physical, so we know what got zapped.
Well why didn't you say so? You want me to lift some weights or something?
You look like an eighties rock band.
The suit will stretch. You should try it 
I wouldn't be caught dead in that.
He didn't.
Oh, he did.
What did he do to the uniform?!
He didn't mean it. You know Johnny. He's always been a hothead 
It's not him. It's them. I can't live like this.
Just give Reed a little more time. You know how he works  analyzing every little step before he takes one 
It's easy for you to be patient.
No, it's not. I thought I was done waiting for Reed... We're all in this together now, Ben.
Where is Reed?
Victor must've taken him.
You know, you could'a run an ad in the personals.
"Sensual blind chick seeks three ton, rockhard heman for deep spiritual relationship."
This ain't permanent. My friend Reed's working on a cure... I think.
You don't know what it's like out there. Walking around like some kind of circus freak. People staring, whispering 
I wouldn't know anything about that.
I mean...
Tell me. When you grew up in Brooklyn, how many astronauts did you know? You went your own way then. You didn't listen to people. So why start now...?
I don't think She's real big on hate.
You wouldn't say that, if you could see me.
Such a sad face... You know, sometimes being different isn't a bad thing.
Trust me, this ain't one of those times.
How'd you know it was me?
I'm blind, not deaf. Wanna come in?
I'm not really dressed for a party.
Relax, it's casual.
No, I mean... I'm a little... dusty...
Those yours too?
My stepdad's. I'm strictly into stone. I was wondering when you'd walk by.
We're going to have to work on your touch.
I like the sound of that.
Relativity, yes. We can't break the law of relativity, but we can go around it. The ship doesn't really move faster than the speed of light; it creates a dimensional gateway that allows the ship to instantaneously "jump" from one point in the universe to another, light years away.
How?
Well, in layman's terms, you use a rotating magnetic field to focus a narrow beam of gravitons; these in turn fold spacetime consistent with Weyl tensor dynamics until the space time curvature becomes infinitely large and you have a singularity...
A straight line.
Wrong. The shortest distance between two points...
The reactor's still hot. We've got several small radiation sources, leaks probably. Nothing serious.
Do they have pressure?
Affirmative. The hull's intact... but there's no gravity and the thermal units are off line. I'm showing deep cold. The crew couldn't survive unless they were in stasis.
Could it be the crew? If they were in suspended animation, wouldn't that effect the scan?
If they were in stasis, I'd get a location, but these readings, they're all over the ship. It doesn't make any sense.
What is it?
Ship's log.
What is it?
I don't know. The life readings just went off the scale.
That's how the gravity drive works, you see: it focuses the black hole's immense gravitational power to create the gateway. That's how the Event Horizon travels faster than light.
I can't believe we built this.
Why Dr. Weir, I think you're in love.
Hmmm. Claire used to tell me I loved the Event Horizon more than I loved her. I told her that wasn't true, I just knew the Event Horizon better, that's all.
Claire is your wife?
Yes.
It must be hard, being so far away from her.
Yes. I miss her. She died. Two years now.
I'm sorry.
Maybe a power interruption crashed the system...
No, there's no evidence of a surge or spike of any kind. It's as if time just... stopped for seven years.
What are you doing?
It wants me. I have to go.
In our current environment, Dr. Weir, selfcontrol is an asset.
I'm alright. Please.
What is it?
The forward airlock.
Miller, Smith, Cooper, any of you in the airlock?
Justin said something about, "The dark inside me..." What did he mean?
It means nothing.
I can't believe this, I haven't gotten more than my hand in six weeks and now this shit. Why not Mars, Cap, Mars has women...
Smith's right. Neptune? There's nothing out there. If something happens, we'll be on our own.
30 hours to Neptune orbit.
All boards are green, everything's five by five.
You can't do that.
The law of relativity prohibits faster thanlight travel...
This is U.S. Aerospace Command vessel Lewis and Clark, hailing Event Horizon, Event Horizon, do you read...? This is the Lewis and Clark, hailing...
Matching speed... now. Range to target ten thousand meters and closing... Skipper, I got a bad feeling about this...
If they are, they're screening their calls.
Range 3000 meters and closing.
The scope is lit, it's right in front of us...
1000 meters...
Range 500 meters and holding. Turbulence is dropping off...
Picking up magnetic interference.
What happened to his eyes?
Explosive decompression.
Decompression wouldn't do that.
Miller, do you read me, Peters 
Get them back 
I'm trying, goddammit 
What if the air has gone bad? We can't wear these suits forever.
I don't think this is a good idea, we don't even know what happened on that ship...
Hey...
Say this paper represents spacetime, and you want to get from "point A" here... ...to "point B," here. Now: what's the shortest distance between two points?
Where is she?
Dead ahead, 5000 meters.
Jesus, that is one big ugly fat fucker...
She's not ugly.
Foredecks. Crew quarters, bridge, medical and science labs, hydroponics, what have you. That central section connects the forward decks to the Engineering containment area. Can we move in closer?
Shit, Doc, any closer and we're gonna need a rubber...
What the hell is that?
That's the Core: the gravity drive. The heart of the ship.
The safety circuit's failed!
We're losing atmosphere...
What?
It still has air and reserve power, we can activate gravity and life support.
I didn't see anything and I don't have to see anything. This ship is fucked.
Thank you for that scientific analysis, Mister Smith.
Hey! You don't need to be a scientist figure it out...
There's no one in the corridor but us.
Not according to the computer.
He's engaged the override.
Can you shut it down?
Yes. Yes, Justin, we heard it.
Keep him talking.
Do you know what it was?
Almost got it.
Come on, Babybear, open this door...
We have to do something, oh God...
Skipper, Justin just activated the door. It's on a thirty second delay...
You got any coffee?
It's cold.
I don't care.
First time in a grav couch?
Yes.
Don't worry about it. He's hard, but he's fair. You're lucky to be shipping out with him. He's one of the few Captains in the service with experience in the Outer Reach.
He's been past Mars?
He served on the Goliath.
Wasn't that ship destroyed?
They attempted to rescue a supply shuttle bound for Titan. The shuttle's ohtwo tanks ruptured during the rescue, flooded both ships with pure oxygen. There was a spark and both ships were incinerated. The Skipper and three others just made it to a lifeboat. Captain Miller was able...
Claire...
DJ! It's okay. You're okay. Just breathe.
Here's another one. They're all over the place.
They're explosive charges.
Dr. Weir, what's this the door to?
You're at the Bridge, Ms. Peters. You still haven't seen any crew?
Yes, we can see some kind of mist. What is that?
Blood. Looks like arterial spray.
Can you see a body?
There's no one here.
No. I saw nothing.
I did.
About an hour ago. In medical. I saw my son. He was lying on one of the examination tables and his legs were...
Isn't it possible that you were traumatized by finding the body on the bridge?
I've seen bodies before. This is different.
We're past the outer marker, we can engage the ion drive whenever you're ready.
Justin?
Ion drive will engage in... Tminus ten minutes.
Let's go.
Starck, why aren't you on the bridge?
I just finished drying...
Then what are you doing here? Come on, people, let's go! And Cooper... Put some pants on.
Crossing the horizon. Optimum approach angle is fourteen degrees.
Come around to threethreefour...
Something's wrong with the bioscan.
Radiation interference?
There's not enough radiation to throw off the scan. I'm picking up trace life forms, but I can't get a lock on the location.
That's an affirmative.
Keep your eyes open.
Everybody okay?
We're all here.
Okay. Let's find out how much time we just bought.
It tastes bad.
But you can breathe it.
The antennae array's completely fried, we've got no radio, no laser, no highgain... No one's going to be coming to help us.
How much ohtwo do we have?
Oxygen is not the problem.
Carbon dioxide?
It's building up with every breath we take. And the CO2 filters on the Event Horizon are shot.
We can take the filters from the Clark...
I thought of that, with the filters from the Clark, we've got enough breathable air for twenty hours. After that, we'd better be on our way home.
What about the life readings you picked up?
The Event Horizon sensors show the same thing: "Bioreadings of indeterminate origin." Right before that wave hit the Clark, there was some kind of surge, right off the scale, but now it's back to its previous levels.
What's causing the readings?
I don't know, but whatever it is, it's not the crew.
So where is the rest of the crew? We've been over every inch of this ship and all we've found is blood. Dr. Weir? Any suggestions?
What's the point? I'll just get the same thing...
Not acceptable. I want to know what's causing those readings. If the crew is dead, I want the bodies, I want the crew found.
I can reconfigure the scan for C12, amylase proteins.
Do it. Dr. Weir...
Maybe one of the original crew?
No. It was someone else.
Who?
Dr. Weir, you were right there, you must have heard something, seen something...
Miller...
What is it, Starck?
...I ran the bioscan with the DNA/RNA filter. The results were bioreadings of indeterminate origin...
"...bioreadings of indeterminate origin," don't you have anything useful to tell me?
I've got a theory.
Go ahead.
There was a another surge in the bio readings right before you... you saw what you saw. We picked up a similar readings right before the Clarke was damaged. What if there were a connection between the two? The gravity waves, the hallucination, all part of an defensive reaction, like an immune system...
You've got to listen...
To what? What are you saying? This ship is alive?
I didn't say that, I said the bio readings correspond to what happened to you, the ship is reacting to us...
We're hanging on by our fingernails and you're giving me bullshit stories...
It's not bullshit, it's the only conclusion the data supports...
Starck, do you know how crazy that sounds? It's impossible.
I know that.
If you knew it was impossible, then why'd you waste my time?
I thought you wanted an answer. And that's the only one I have.
What I want is to survive the next ten hours.
Nine hours and twentytwo minutes.
I'm going outside to work on the Clark. And Starck... don't tell anyone what you just told me. We've got enough to worry about.
Miller, come in...
What's going on in there, Starck?
Justin's in the airlock.
What?
He's awake, he's in the airlock, he's not wearing a suit.
Stay here! Don't stop working!
I'm on my way, Starck.
You better hurry. He's engaged the override, we can't open the inner door.
Tuck yourself into a crouched position, shut your eyes as tight as you can!
Five seconds.
Weir can't be alive.
Whatever was on that bridge wasn't Weir.
Weir activated the drive. He's sending us to the Other Place.
We've got to shut it down, we've got to...
BLOW THE FUCKER UP.
Blow it up?
We blow the Corridor. Use the foredecks as a lifeboat, separate it from the rest of the ship. We stay put...
I'll do it 
No. I'll be right back.
We're armed. This fucker's ready to blow...
...repeat, we're armed...
Miller, he's back, he was in the tank...
Weir.
He's dead...
I don't like it either, but you know the rules: we get the call, we go. Is the course locked in?
Locked and cocked.
Jesus...
What is that?
Heading threethreefour...
...Make your approach vector negative fourteen degrees...
Onefour degrees...
We have a lock on the Event Horizon's navigation beacon. It's in the upper ionosphere, we're in for some chop.
Bring us in tight. Starck, get on the horn, see if anyone's listening...
We're all on edge, Smith. We're a long way out...
That's not it. That ship was built to go faster than light... That's just wrong, it goes against everything we know...
What are you trying to say? "If God had intended Man to fly, he would have given us wings?"
Something like that, yeah.
I guess we're about to find out. Keep us slow and steady.
Yes, sir.
Dr. Weir...!
We've got some weather.
I noticed. Starck, anybody home?
1500 meters. We're getting too close...
Where is it?
Proximity warning! 900, 800 meters, 700... we're right on top of it, we're gonna hit!
Starck...
Put it through TACS. Smith, you up for a flyby?
Love to.
It is now. We're locked in.
Starck, give me a read.
Captain Miller...
Smith, where the hell have you been?!
We have a situation here...
Do we have enough time for a weld?
We don't have time to fart.
We're losing pressure at 280 liters a second and our oxygen tanks are cracked. In three minutes, our atmosphere will be gone. We are fucking dead.
No one's dying on my watch, Smith! What about the reserve tanks?
They're gone.
But...
You heard me, Smith. Peters, are you with me?
Captain Miller, you copy?
I'm here, Smith, how's the Clark?
I've found a six inch fracture in the outer hull. We should be able to repair it and repressurize, it's gonna take some time.
We don't have time, Smith. In twenty hours we run out of air.
Understood.
...you break all the laws of physics, you think there won't be a price? You already killed the first crew...
That's enough!
Sir.
Get outside, go back to work. I'll join you shortly.
Thank you.
Captain, we got a problem.
Now what?
She was right behind me, I turn around, she's gone. She could be anywhere.
Alright. Prep the Clark for launch. I'll find her.
Skipper...
What is it, Smith?
I just saw Weir, I think he was messing around on the Clark.
Smith, get out of there...
Come again, Skipper?
One of the explosives is missing from the corridor. I think Weir may have put it on the Clark.
Get off the Clark now and wait for me at the airlock.
No, no, we just got her back together...
Get out of there now!
Where is it, where is it...
Smith? Smith! Fuck!
Captain Miller, I just want to say...
The clock is running, Dr. Weir. If you'll follow the rest of the crew, they'll show you to the gravity tanks.
Captain Miller, I appreciate this opportunity...
Doctor Weir, my crew is not going on your mission because we want to. We were pulled off a well deserved leave, to be sent out to the middle of nowhere, and no one's even told us why.
I've been authorized to brief you and the crew once we reach Neptune space.
Until then, do what you're told and stay out of my way.
It was the ship's maiden voyage, to test the drive. The Event Horizon moved to safe distance using ion thrusters. They received the goahead to activate the gravity drive. And the ship vanished from all our scopes. No radar contact, no enhanced optical, no radio contact of any kind. They disappeared without a trace. Until now.
Where has it been for the last seven years?
That's what we're here to find out.
What does it say?
NSA encryption specialists have deciphered some of the message...
That's the engineering containment. And there's the main airlock. We can dock there.
Smith, use the arm and lock us onto that antennae cluster.
Be careful. It's not a load bearing structure...
Dr. Weir, I need you on the bridge.
Captain, I didn't come out here to sit on your bridge, I need to be on that ship...
Once the ship is secured, we'll bring you on board 
That is not acceptable 
 once we've secured the ship, that's the way it is! I need you to guide us from the comm station. This is where I need you. Help us to do our job.
You're in the central corridor. It connects the personnel areas to Engineering.
Peters and I will search the forward decks. Justin, take Engineering. No hotdogging, not on this one, alright?
I can see that, what're they for?
In an emergency, the charges detonate in series, destroying the central section and separating the personnel areas from the rest of the ship. That way, if the gravity drive malfunctions, the crew could use the foredecks as a lifeboat.
Easy, Peters, we're okay, we're okay. Let's finish the sweep.
Captain Miller, the foredecks are just ahead.
Any survivors?
Negative.
No one?
They're empty, Dr. Weir. Moving forward.
It beats dying, Mister Smith.
Dr. Weir's right. Get on board the Event Horizon. I'll meet you at the airlock.
Yes.
One of my men is down. I want to know what happened to him.
Hold on, what's this "gravitational distortion?"
It's possible that a burst of gravity waves escaped from the Core, distorting spacetime. They could be what hit the Lewis and Clark.
What could cause them? What's in the Core?
It's complicated...
How much time do you need? We have seventeen hours and fortytwo minutes. Now: what is in the Core?
It's insane.
"Insane?" The finest astronauts fought to be posted to this ship. It would take the Lewis and Clark a thousand years to reach our closest star. The Event Horizon could be there in a day...
If it worked.
If it worked, yes.
I want this room sealed. The Second Containment is off limits.
There's no danger. The black hole is contained behind three magnetic fields, it's under control.
Your black hole damn near ripped my ship apart. It may have killed one of my men. No one goes near that thing.
You have something, Dr. Weir?
The date.
What about it?
The Event Horizon's computer think's it's 2034.
It's 2041...
Exactly. The ship's internal clock is off by seven years.
Explanation?
Intense gravitational fields effect the passage of time, it's possible... Black holes make sense on paper, it's all math, you see, but as to what really happened... The Event Horizon has passed beyond our plane of reality, and like Lazarus, returned from the dead.
What the hell is that? Dr. Weir?
I don't know.
We barely have enough power for life support as it is, if we can't stop the drain, we're not gonna make it.
The Core...!
We don't get the power back, our air's gonna go bad.
Check the Core for radiation. Carbon dioxide may be the least of our worries.
We're a long way from home and we're in a bad place. Let's not make it worse. If anyone has any constructive suggestions, now is the time.
I think I can stabilize the fields around the singularity, that should prevent another power drain.
Do it.
Is that your "expert opinion?" The only answer we've had out of you is "I don't know."
Justin just tried to kill himself. The man is clearly insane.
I want to know what caused that noise. I want to know why one of my crew tried to throw himself out of the airlock.
Thermal changes in the hull could have caused the metal to expand and contract very suddenly, causing reverberations 
That's bullshit and you know it! You built this fucking ship and all I've heard from you is bullshit!
What do you want me to say?
You said this ship creates a gateway...
Yes...
To what? Where did this ship go? Where did you send it?
I don't know...
Where has it been for the past seven years?
I don't know...
The "Other Place," what is that...?
I DON'T KNOW! I don't know. There's a lot of things going on here that I don't understand. Truth takes time.
That's exactly what we don't have, Doctor.
We're leaving.
You can't, your orders are specific...
"...to rescue the crew and salvage the ship." The crew is dead, Dr. Weir. This ship killed them. And now it's killing us.
You're insane. You've lost your mind.
Maybe you're right. But it's still my command, and I have leeway to abort when I feel there is an unacceptable threat to my crew. And I think there is. Starck, download all the files from the Event Horizon's computers. Coop, Smith, finish moving the CO2 scrubbers back onto the Clark.
Don't... don't do this...
It's done.
What about my ship?
We will take the Lewis and Clark to a safe distance and then launch tac missiles at the Event Horizon until I am satisfied that she has been destroyed. Fuck this ship.
You... You can't do that!
Watch me.
You can't leave. She won't let you.
Just get your gear back onto the Lewis and Clark, doctor, or you'll find yourself looking for a ride home.
I told you... She won't let you leave...
Son of a bitch!
Your eyes...
I don't need them anymore. Where we're going, we won't need eyes to see.
What are you talking about?
Do you know what a singularity is, Miller? Does your mind truly fathom what a black hole is? It is NOTHING. Absolute and eternal NOTHING. And if God is Everything, then I have seen the Devil. It's a liberating experience.
If you miss me, you'll blow out the hull. You'll die too.
What makes you think I'll miss?
Weir is dead.
Then who the fuck are you?
Your fear. Do you remember the Goliath, Miller?
What are you?
You know.
You want me to believe you're the Devil, well, I don't, that's bullshit!
I'm not the Devil.
Then what, what are you? Tell me...
Better if I just show you.
There is no Devil. There is no God. There is only... NOTHING.
You're lying...!
I'm not asking you to believe me. You'll see for yourself... and so will your crew. You're all coming with me.
Starck... Cooper...
You can't have them. Go to hell.
NOOO!
What's the hold up?
Just loading the last of the CO2 scrubbers. Good for four months.
I put in for a replacement for you but no one...
No, no, its alright. I talked to my ex, he'll keep Denny over Christmas and I'll get him this summer. Goddam it, Skipper... I haven't seen him in two months.
I am sorry. But now we have to go to work.
We've got pressure.
Clear and open on my mark. Three... two... one... mark.
Jesus its huge.
Ice crystals everywhere. This place is a deep freeze.
That means they didn't abandon ship.
So where are they? Starck, any luck with the bioscan?
Peters is right, no one's here.
I don't know, this place is really dark, I can't see a thing...
I can see the hatch.
Starck, you still showing those readings?
The blood came from somewhere, Peters...
There's no one here, Skipper.
Okay. I'm on the bridge.
What you got, Peters?
Everything's been shut down. Conserving power, I guess. Green light on the hull, it's intact.
The science workstation has power, I'll see if I can find the crew from here.
I found one.
Alive?
Frozen.
Justin, check the containment for radiation leaks. Peters...
...how's the client?
Crystallized.
Can anybody hear me...
Skipper...
Peters...
...you okay?
Yeah. I'm  I'm okay.
Peters, I want you to go through the ship's log, see if we can't find some answers.
I can use the station in Medical, keep an eye on Justin...
Fine. Starck, I want you to repeat the bioscan...
I can run the image through a series of filters, try to clean it up.
Do it.
That's a negative, Starck.
Justin.
Peters. We need to know what happened to the crew. Before it happens to us.
I'll get back to the log. But on the bridge, I won't go back, back in there...
Thanks.
This is Weir.
Dr. Weir, Admiral Hollis would like to see you as soon as possible.
Dr. Weir, you have no experience with salvage procedures.
I designed the ship's propulsion system. I am the only person capable of evaluating the performance of the gravity drive. You can't send a Search and Rescue team out there alone and expect them to succeed. That would be like... like sending an auto mechanic to work on the shuttle.
I can understand your desire to redeem your reputation, Dr. Weir, but it doesn't factor into this.
This is not about my reputation! This is not about me at all! The Event Horizon was created for one reason: to go faster than light. Imagine mankind exploring new solar systems, colonizing new worlds. Seven years ago, we didn't just lose the ship and the crew. We lost the dream. I have to go.
Since the initial transmission, there's been no further contact. Just the beacon, every two minutes.
The crew? Could they still be alive?
The ship had life support systems for eighteen months. They're been gone seven years.
Someone sent that message. Admiral, you have to put me on that ship.
Everything green on my boards, Skipper.
Start the countdown.
Okay. We do it the hard way. Deck by deck, room by room. Starck, deploy the umbilicus. I believe you're up for a walk, Mr. Justin. Go get your bonnet on.
Yes, sir!
Justin, finish your sweep.
Almost done, I just gotta check one thing...
Patch me through to him.
Justin.
Skipper, you gotta help me...
...I don't want to die...!
You're not going to die! Not today! I want you to do exactly as I say and I'm gonna get you out of there, alright?
But I can't... I gotta get out of here... Skipper, please...
Justin. I won't let you die.
...is zero. That's what the singularity does: it folds space, so that point A and point B coexist in the same space and time. After the ship passes through this gateway, space returns to normal. It's called a gravity drive.
How do you know all this?
I built it.
You've reached the First Containment Seal. The engineering decks are on the other side.
We still have pressure. The radiation count's steady at 7 millirads an hour.
Background radiation. Perfectly safe.
I've reached another containment door. This thing's huge...
That's the Second Containment Seal. Beyond that, engineering.
I'm going in.
What, Justin, what shows you?
It won't stop, it goes on and on and on...
What does?
The dark inside me.
...It's inside and it eats and eats until there's nothing left.
"The dark inside..."? I don't understand.
From the Other Place...
Oh my god OH MY GOD...
Starck!
It's not that simple. Lyle, play the recording for Dr. Weir.
Navigation Control tried to hail the vessel. This was the only response.
You're not seriously considering sending him?
You don't just dismiss Bill Weir. The man held Oppenheimer's chair at Princeton. If the Event Horizon had worked, he would have gone down in history as the greatest mind in physics since Einstein.
The official inquiry blamed Weir's design for the ship's loss.
That doesn't mean a damn thing. They were looking for a scapegoat and Weir fit the bill. But he's not responsible for what happened to the ship.
Does he know that?
What's on your mind?
He doesn't belong on this mission. Responsible or not, he blames himself. He's too close to it. And then there's his wife.
It's been two years since she died. He's over it.
Some things you don't get over.
I want our best people on this. Where's Miller?
The Lewis and Clark just returned from patrol in the asteroid belt, she's docked in bay four.
You wanted to see me, Admiral?
I apologize for the short notice, Bill, but we've had something come up that requires your immediate attention. Lyle?
Incredible... These are the same coordinates before the ship disappeared... this, this happened? This isn't some kind of hoax?
I wouldn't bring you here on a hoax. Houston confirms the telemetry and I.D. codes.
It's the Event Horizon. She's come back.
That ship was lost in deep space, seven years ago. If the Titanic sailed into New York harbor, I'd find it more plausible. Houston wants Aerospace to send out a search and rescue team, investigate the source of the transmission. If it really is the Event Horizon, they'll attempt a salvage. We need you to prepare a detailed briefing on the ship's systems for the salvage crew...
A written briefing can't possibly anticipate the variables on a mission like this. I have to go with them.
It's against my better judgement, but I'll run this by the Man downstairs. You'll know my decision by the end of the day.
Thank you.
Don't thank me, Bill. I'm not doing you any favors.
What's wrong?
Nothing. It's nothing.
What's happening...?
A power drain 
What's wrong?
You didn't hear it? You must have heard it!
I've got a pulse, he's alive...
Pressure?
90 over 50 and falling... .
He's crashing...
Intubate, pure oxygen feed, get the nitrogen out of his blood...
His peritoneum has ruptured...
One thing at a time, let's keep him breathing. Start the drip, 15cc's fibrinogen, Christ, he's bleeding out...
He's a rescue technician. Peters, medical technician. DJ...
Trauma.
And this is mission specialist Dr. William Weir. We all know where we're going. Dr. Weir is going to tell us why.
We haven't tested the air yet. It could be contaminated...
No time. We need whatever's left in our suits to repair the Clark. Like it or not, this is the only oxygen for three billion kilometers.
How is he?
His vitals are stable, but he's unresponsive to stimuli. He might wake up in fifteen minutes. He might not wake up at all.
Carbon dioxide poisoning produces hallucinations, impaired judgement...
Goddammit, DJ, it was not a hallucination! I saw a man, he was on fire. And then he disappeared.
To conserve our oxygen, we should severely restrict our activity. Anyone who can should get some sleep.
I don't need sleep, DJ. I need answers.
He'll live... if we ever make it back.
We'll make it.
Of course not. Justin just climbed into the airlock because he felt like it. Just one of those things. I swore I'd never lose another man. I came close today. Real close.
"Another man?" Who?
I, I tried to go back for him, to save him, but I couldn't get to him in time. The fire... Have you ever seen fire in zerogravity? It's like a liquid, it slides over everything. It was like a wave breaking over him, a wave of fire. And then he was gone. I never told anyone until now. But this ship knew, DJ. It knows about the Goliath, it knows about Corrick. It knows our secrets. It knows what we're afraid of. And now you're going to tell me it's carbon dioxide.
No.
What is it?
I've been listening to the transmission. And I think Houston made a mistake in the translation.
Go on.
They thought it said, "Liberatis me," "Save me," but it's not "me." It's "tutemet:" "Save yourself."
It's not a distress call. It's a warning.
It gets worse.
Do you hear it? Right there.
Hear what?
It sounds like "ex infera:" "ex," from; "infera," the ablative case of "inferi." "Hell."
"Save yourself. From Hell." What are you saying, are you saying that this ship is possessed?
No. I don't believe in that sort of thing. But if Dr. Weir is right, this ship has passed beyond the boundaries of our universe, of reality. Who knows where this ship has been... What it's seen... And what it's brought back with it.
DJ. The Clark's gone. Smith and Cooper are dead.
What happened?
Weir. He used one of the explosives from the Corridor.
Please...
Oh, God, DJ, what do I... how do I...
Please... kill...
Oh God...
Is that an offer?
It is not.
What's happening?
I don't know, the screens are dead...!
Let me breathe, let me breathe...
You're okay now, it's over...
How? The Bridge is gone.
There must be a way! What about Engineering?
Can you shut it down?
I don't know the process, Dr. Weir was the expert...
I don't want to go where the last crew went. I'd rather be dead.
I'm gonna activate the emergency beacon.
Hurry.
What...?
Run!
Damn, Dr. Weir, don't scare us like that. Coffee?
What?
Coffee.
No, thank you.
The Event Horizon only had life support for eighteen months. It seems impossible, but in light of the transmission... I have to think that someone has managed to endure until now.
Skipper, do we get hazard pay for this?
It was like... nothing was there... and then Justin appeared and the Core... became metal...
No, he didn't.
You weren't there. I saw it.
Saw what, Mr. Cooper? What did you really see, because what you're describing is not physically possible...
I don't know what happened to Justin.
I'm telling you, I saw it...
What you saw could have been an optical effect caused by gravitational distortion.
I know what I saw and it wasn't a fucking "optical effect!"
You been out there a long time. Trying to break my record?
I'd rather spend the next twelve hours Outside than another five minutes in this can. This ship is bad. It watches you.
What?
You heard me. This ship, it's crazy: trying to go faster'n light, that's like the Tower of Babel.
Shit, Smith, you're going Biblical on me.
You know what happened to the Tower of Babel, don't you? It fell down.
You're sucking too much nitrogen in your mix.
We'll have to reroute through the port conduit to the APU.
What about the accumulator...?
It's holding... She's holding...!
We're still venting trace gasses, gimme twenty minutes to plug the hole.
Solid as a rock. Hey, Smith...
Smith, clear that airlock, man, I'm coming in.
Roger that.
Time to play Spam in the can.
Don't start with me, Cooper.
Okay, listen up. As you all know by now, we have an addition to our crew. Dr. Weir, this is: Starck, navigation; Smith, pilot, Justin, ship's engineer 
You can call him Babybear, he loves that...
This is Cooper, what the hell do you do on this ship, anyway?
...cancel our leave and send us out on some bullshit mission...!
EVERYBODY SHUT UP! Let the man speak.
From what?
You're convinced the crew could still be alive? After seven years?
...come on, Skipper, I already put my shoes on...
You've had plenty EVA, Coop, it's Justin's turn. Stay on station. If anything happens...
I'll be all over it.
We have a man down...
Coop, where are you...
The containment, Second Containment...
Hold on, Coop...
But Justin...
I'll get him.
Captain Miller, we're ready to repressurize the Clark.
On my way.
...and the gravity drive goes where no man has gone before.
You prep the gravity couches. I'm going to manually arm those explosives.
Will it work?
It worked for Weir. Prep the tanks.
Ballast.
I am your best friend. I am a lifesaver and a heartbreaker...
That means topsecret, Cooper.
I heard it.
I can see why they sent you along.
So if the ship didn't blow up, what happened?
You still need the rope? I thought you were one a those spacemen with ice in ya veins.
I'd rather be on the rope and not need it than need it and not have it. Now step aside, old man.
...do you copy?
Uh, yeah Coop, I'm still here.
Shit! Do not do that! Where the fuck are you?
I'm in the Second Containment area. It's pitch black in here. There must have been a coolant leak. Man, this shit is everywhere. I can't see a damn thing.
Holy shit...
Justin?
I think I found something...
To my own special Sissy. Cheers! And welcome. So my letter brought ya flying, eh? Where were you? Salt Lake City? La Conner? Well, I may have a little surprise for you. But first, tell me about yourself. It's been six months, hasn't it? In some circles that's half a year. How are you?
Tired...
That's the very first time in the eons that I've known you that I've ever heard you complain. And now you're tired, poor darling.
A born freak can only go uphill.
Freak, schmeek. Most of us are freaks in one way or another. Try being born a male Russian countess into a white middle class Baptist family in Mississippi and you'll see what I mean.
I've always been proud of the way nature singled me out. It's the people who have been deformed by society I feel sorry for. I've been steady moving for eleven years and some months. Maybe I should rest up for a spell, I'm not as young as I used to be.
Shit O goodness, you won't be thirty for another year, and you're more beautiful than ever.
Does that mean you might have an assignment for me?
You were the Yoni Yum girl from, let's see, from nineteen sixtyeight through nineteen seventy. You've always smelled so nice. Like a little sister. The irony has just killed me. You, the Dew Girl, one of the few girls who doesn't need Dew. I loath the stink of females! They are so sweet the way God made them, then they start fooling around with men and soon they're stinking. Like rotten mushrooms, like an excessively chlorinated swimming pool, like a tuna fish's retirement party. They all stink. From the Queen of England to Bonanza Jellybean, they stink.
Bonanza Jellybean?
What? Oh yes. Teehee. Jellybean.
She's a young thing who works on my ranch. Real name is Sally Jones or something wooden like that. She's cute as a hot fudge taco, and, of course, it takes verve to change one's name so charmingly. But she stinks like a slut just the same.
Your ranch?
Oh my dear yes, I bought a little ranch out West, sort of a tribute to the women of America who have cooperated with me in eliminating their odor by using my vaginal products, Dew spray mist and Yoni Yum spray powder. A tax writeoff, actually.
Sissy, Sissy, blushing bride, you can desist from wearing paths in those forgotten highways. The Countess has arranged a job for you. And what a job...
A job for me?
I am once more about to make advertising history. And only you, the original Yoni Yum/Dew Girl, could possibly assist me.
The Food and Drug Administration said Wednesday female deodorant sprays may cause such harmful reactions as blisters, burns and rashes. Although the FDA judges that the reported reactions are not sufficient to justify removal of these products from the market, they are sufficient to warrant the proposed mandatory label warnings.
Shit O dear, that's enough to make me asthmatic. The nerve of those twits. What do they know about female odor? Don't interrupt. Here's my concept. My ranch out West? It's a beauty ranch. Oh, it's got a few head of cattle for atmosphere and tax purposes. But it's a beauty ranch, a place where unhappy women  divorcees and widows, mainly  can go to lose weight, remove wrinkles, change their hair styles and pretty themselves up for the next disappointment. My ranch is named the Rubber Rose, after the Rubber Rose douche bag, my own invention, and bless its little red bladder, the most popular douche bag in the world. So get this. It's on the migratory flight path of the whooping cranes. The last flock of wild whooping cranes left in existence. Well, these cranes stop off at my little pond  Siwash Lake, it's called  twice a year, autumn and spring, and spend a few days each time, resting up, eating, doing whatever whooping cranes do. I've never seen them, understand, but I hear they're magnificent. Very big specimens  I mean, huge mothers  and white as snow, to coin a phrase, except for black tips on their wings and tail feathers, and bright red heads. Now, whooping cranes, in case you didn't know it, are noted for their mating dance. It's just the wildest show in nature. It's probably the reason why birdwatching used to be so popular with old maids and deacons. Picture these rare, beautiful, gigantic birds in full dance  leaping six feet off the mud, arching their backs, flapping their wings, strutting low to the ground. Dears, it's overwhelming. And picture the birds doing their sex dance on TV. Right there on the home screen, creation's most elaborate sex ritual  yet clean and pure enough to suit the Pope. With lovely Sissy Hankshaw in the foreground. In a white gown, red hood attached, and big feathery sleeves trimmed in black. In a very subdued imitation of the female whooping crane, she dance/walks over to a large nest in which there sits a can of Yoni Yum. And a can of Dew. Offcamera, a string quartet is playing Debussy. A sensuous voice is reading a few poetic lines about courtship and love. Are you starting to get it? Doesn't it make the hair on your neck stand up and applaud? My very goodness gracious! Grandiose, lyrical, erotic and Girl Scout oriented; you can't top it. I've hired a crew of experts from Walt Disney Studios, the best wildlife cinematographers around. You're my eternal favorite. Princess Grace herself couldn't be better, not even if she had your personality which she doesn't; Anyway, dear, I'm out of photography now and into water colors. Ah how circuitous conversation is! We're back at the beginning. The exact man I've wanted you to meet is my artist the watercolorist.
If you don't want me to pose for him, why do you want me to meet him?
Purely personal. I believe you might enjoy one another.
But Countess...
Now, now. Don't get exasperated. I realize that you've always avoided all but the most rudimentary involvements with men, and I might add, you've been wise. Heterosexual relationships seem to lead only to marriage. For men, marriage is a matter of efficient logistics: The male gets his food, bed, laundry, TV, pussy, offspring and creature comforts all under one roof, where he doesn't have to dissipate his psychic energy thinking about them too much, then he is free to go out and fight the battles of life, which is what existence is all about. But for a woman marriage is surrender.
But here you are, still a virgin  you are virginal yet, aren't you?
Why, yes, technically. Jack Kerouac and I came awfully close, but he was afraid of me, I think...
Yes, well, what I'm getting at is that there comes a time when it is psychologically impossible for a woman to lose her virginity. She can't wait too long, you know. Now, there's no reason why you must lose yours. I mean, just ponder it a bit, that's all.
What makes you think this watercolorist and I would develop a romantic relationship?
I can't be certain that you would. But what have you got to lose?
Well, okay. I'll try it. I don't see the point in it, but I'll try it. Just for you. It's kind of silly, actually, me going out with an artist in New York City. However...
Good, good, good... you'll enjoy it, you'll see. Julian is a gentleman.
Sissy, don't play dumb with me! You're a good model but a shitty actress. The cowgirls are involved in this whooping crane disappearance. You know perfectly well they are. Last seen in Nebraska. Didn't make it to Canada. Siwash Lake is between Nebraska and Canada. The cowgirls have possession of Siwash Lake. And who else but Jellybean's wild cunts could possibly conceive of doing something so diabolical as to tamper with the last flock of some nearly extinct birds? How much do you know about it? Have they murdered those cranes the way they murdered my moo cows?
I don't know anything about it.
Sissy. You're trying to protect those scuzzy bitches. Well, let your conscience be your guide, as my mommy used to say, but it won't work. Those stinking sluts are going to suffer...
Going north?
You bet your raggedy white ass I am.
Thanks.
American Cheese. The king of road food.
Are you in show business?
I was a successful model once.
For magazines?
I was the Yoni Yum femininehygiene Dew girl from 1965 to 1970, but got laid off.
So now you're bummin' around?
Yep.
Hitchhiking?
I'm the best.
You're the best?
When I was younger, I hitchhiked one hundred and twentyseven hours without stopping, without food or sleep, crossed the continent twice in six days, cooled my thumbs in both oceans and caught rides after midnight on unlighted highways.
Whooee!
As I developed, however, I grew more concerned with subtleties and nuances of style. Time in terms of M.P.H. no longer interested me. I began to hitchhike in something akin to geological time: slow, ancient, vast. When I am really moving, stopping car after car after car, moving so freely, so clearly, so delicately that even the sex maniacs and the cops can only blink and let me pass, then I embody the rhythms of the universe. I am in a state of grace.
I'm cold.
Here. I'll turn down the air conditioner.
It's not the air conditioner that's making me cold. Nothing moves in here. Not even your birds.
What are you doing?
Getting dressed. I've got to go.
But I don't want you to leave. Please stay. We can go to dinner. I owe you a dinner. And tonight... we can... really make love.
I have to go, Julian.
Why? Why do you have to go?
My thumbs hurt. I've made a mistake. I've been negligent. I haven't exercised. I have to hitchhike a little bit every day, no matter what. It's like a musician practicing his scales. When I don't practice, my timing gets off, my thumbs get stiff and sore.
Extraordinary!
She's obviously that. Jesus! Which would you rather have, a million dollars or one of Sissy's thumbs full of pennies?
Oh, you! I'm not talking about her hands. They're difficult to ignore, I confess, but I'm speaking of her whole being. Her whole being is extraordinary. The way she talks, for example. She's so articulate.
It's high time you realized, honey babe, that a woman doesn't have to give the best years of her life to Radcliffe or Smith in order to speak the English language.
Countess. I'm really in a dither. She's turned my head.
Ninety degrees to the left, I hope. How does she feel about you?
I think she's disappointed that I'm not more, ah, sort of atavistic. She's got some naive, sentimental notions about Indians. I'm sure she liked me, though; but.... then she left town.
She always leaves town, you dummy. That doesn't mean anything. What about in bed? How does she like it in bed?
How does she like what in bed?
Like what?
What do you think?
Well.... er...
Shit O dear, Julian. Do you mean to tell me you didn't get it on?
Oh, we didn't get it all the way on.
Whose fault was that?
I suppose it was mine. Yes, it definitely was my fault.
What do they do to you boys in those Ivy league schools, anyway? Strap you down and pump the Nature out of you? They can even press the last drop of Nature out of a Mohawk buck. Why, send a shaman or cannibal to Yale for four years and all he'd be fit for would be a desk in the militaryindustrial complex and a seat in the third row at a Neil Simon comedy. Jesus H.M.S. Christ! If Harvard or Princeton could get hold of the Chink for a couple of semesters they'd turn him into a candidate for the Bow Tie Wing of the Hall of Wimps. Oogie boogie.
If we Ivy Leaguers aren't earthy enough to suit you hillbillies, at least we don't go around indulging in racist terms such as 'Chink.' Next thing I know, you'll be calling me 'chief.'
Chink's the guy's name, for Christ's sake.
What guy?
Aw, he's some old fart holyman who lives in the hills out West. Gives my ranch the creeps and the willies, too. But though he be old and dirty, he's alive, I'll bet, clear down to his toes. They don't have his juice in a jar in New Haven. Well I suppose that I'll have to write Sissy out on the road.
Welcome, podner. By God, it's great to have you here. It's an honor. Sorry I took so long getting to you, but we've had a mess of hard work these past few days  and a heap of planning to do.
Er, you seem to know who I am, and maybe even what I am. Thanks for the breakfast.
Oh, I know about Sissy Hankshaw, all right. I've done a little hitchhiking myself. Ah shucks, that's like telling Annie Oakley you're a sharpshooter because you once knocked a tomato can off a stump with a fieldstone. I'd heard tales about you from people I'd meet in jail cells and truckstops. I heard about your, uh, your, ah, your wonderful thumbs, and I heard how you were Jack Kerouac's girl friend...
No, I'm afraid that part isn't true. Jack was in awe of me and tracked me down. We spent a night talking and hugging in a corn field, but he was hardly my lover. Besides, I always travel alone.
Well, that doesn't matter; that part never interested me anyway. The beatnicks were before my time, and I never got anything outta the hippies but bad dope, clichs and the clap. But the example of your life helped me in my struggle to be a cowgirl.
Tell me about it.
About...
About being a cowgirl. What's it all about? When you say the word you make it sound like it was painted in radium on the side of a pearl.
Cowgirls exist as an image. A fairly common image. The idea of cowgirls especially for little girls prevails in our culture. Therefore, it seems to me, the existence of cowgirls should prevail. Otherwise, they're being fooled. In the Rodeo Hall of Fame in Oklahoma City there are just two cowgirls. Two. And both of 'em are trickriders. Trickriding is what cowgirls have almost always done in rodeos. Our society sure likes to see its unconventional women do tricks. That's what prostitutes call it, you know: 'tricking.'
You're political, then?
No, ma'am. No way. There's girls on the Rubber Rose who are political, but I don't share their views. I got no cowgirl ideology to expound. "Politics is for people who have a passion for changing life but lack a passion for living it."
Did that last comment sound too profound to be coming outta my mouth? It's not original. It's something I picked up from the Chink.
Really? The Chink, huh? I've gathered that you sometimes speak with him. What else have you learned from the Chink?
Learned from the Chink? Oh my. Ha ha. That's hard to say. We mostly.... Uh, a lot of his talk is pretty goofy.
......Delores zonks out on peyote at least once a week, but so far her Third Vision hasn't happened. Niwetkame, the Mother Goddess has not gotten back in touch with her. Meanwhile she and Debbie are rivaling each other like a couple of crosstown high schools. Tension. Cowgirl tension! What a drag.
What is Debbie's position?
Debbie says that if women are to take charge again, they must do it in the feminine way; they mustn't resort to aggressive and violent masculine methods. She says it is up to women to show themselves better than men, to love men, set good examples for them and guide them tenderly toward the New Age. She's a real dreamer, that Debbiedear.
You don't agree with Debbie, then?
I wouldn't say that. I expect she's right, ultimately. But I'm with Delores when it comes to fighting for what's mine. I can't understand why Delores is so uptight about the Chink; he could probably teach her a thing or two. Ee! That grass tickles, doesn't it? God knows I love women, but nothing can take the place of a man that fits. Still this is cowgirl territory and I'll stand with Delores and fight any bastards who might deny it. I guess I've always been a scrapper. Look. This scar. Only twelve years old and I was felled by a silver bullet.
That's Jellybean!
FROM MEN, THE WHOOPING CRANE HAS RECEIVED NEITHER LOVE NOR RESPECT. MEN HAVE DRAINED THE CRANE'S MARSHES, STOLEN ITS EGGS, INVADED ITS PRIVACY, POLLUTED ITS FOOD, FOULED ITS AIR, BLOWN IT APART WITH BUCKSHOT.
Looks like every time we get together things are in a mess.
So be it. It looks serious this time, though. All these guns... are you actually prepared to kill and die for whooping cranes?
Hell no, the cranes are wonderful, okay, but I'm not in this for whooping cranes. I'm in it for cowgirls. If we cowgirls give in to authority on this crane issue, then cowgirls become just another compromise. I want a finer fate than that  for me and for every other cowgirl. Better no cowgirls at all than cowgirls compromised.
How did this business get started, anyhow? Why are the birds nesting here?
No, I guess not.
'Drugged' is a stupid word.
But the peyote is obviously affecting their brains. It's made them break a migratory pattern that goes back thousands of years.
Every time I tell you that I love you, you flinch. But that's your problem.
If I flinch when you say you love me, it's both our problems. My confusion becomes your confusion. Students confuse teachers, patients confuse psychiatrists, lovers with confused hearts confuse lovers with clear hearts....
Where do you live, Miss Hankshaw?
I'm staying with the Countess.
I know, but where do you reside when you aren't visiting New York?
I don't.
You don't?
Well, no, I don't reside anywhere in particular. I just keep moving.
A traveler, eh?
You might say that, although I don't think of it as traveling.
Where are the others?
Oh, Rupert and Carla had a little hassle and went home.
I'm a friend of Bonanza Jellybean's.
I know who you are.
Oh? Well, there's been some trouble on the ranch. I came up here to get out of the way. It's so dark now I doubt if I could find my way back down. If you could help...
Save your breath for the climb.
But I don't know how to polka.
Neither do I... ha ha ho ho hee hee.
What was that?
Clockworks.
Clockworks?
The Clockworks is one reason that I am here on Siwash Ridge. I accepted the invitation to be initiated as a shaman by an aged Siwash chief who was the principle outside confederate of the Clock People.
Siwash, huh?
He was a degenerated warlock who could turn urine into beer, and the honor that he extended me gave me rights of occupancy in this sacred cave on this faraway Siwash Ridge. I came to the Dakota hills to construct a clockworks of my own.
But unlike the clockworks of the Clock People, my ticks more accurately echo the ticks of the universe.... ......ha ha ho ho and hee hee.
The Clock People?
During the Second World War I busted out of Tule Lake detention camp; as a JapaneseAmerican, I had been put there and watched over. I found refuge with the Clock People, who discovered me in a snow bank, near dead, I had been climbing across the Sierra Nevada mountains.
Then if you are Japanese, then why are you called the Chink?
The Clock People mistook me for Chinese. And the name stuck. In the same way that all Indian tribes came to be labeled "Indians" through the ignorance of an Italian sailor with a taste for oranges, it is only fitting that "Indians" misnamed me. The Clock People, however, are not a tribe, rather they are a gathering of Indians from various tribes. They have lived together since 1906.
What do you believe in then?
Ha ha ho ho and hee hee.
Is everything getting worse?
Yes, everything is getting worse. But everything is also getting better.
The Countess has come to our aid. The Rubber Rose Ranch is officially deeded to all the cowgirls. And I have been asked to oversee the ranch. For $300 a week. And as it turns out, the Countess is not going to be the vegetable the doctors thought he was... here's a picture!
I want to go back to the Clock People. I kind of miss those fool redskins and wonder what they're up to. What's happened to Jelly?
She had a one wayticket to Kansas City.
You mean she's dead?
But that's an old story now...... I can't believe that you would leave the Butte.
Easy come, easy go.
Well, if the Clock People give you any inside information on the end of the world, drop us a postcard.
The world isn't going to end, you dummy; I hope you know that much. But it is going to change. It's going to change drastically, and probably in your lifetime. The Clock People see calamitous earthquakes as the agent of change, and they may be right, since there are a hundred thousand earthquakes a year and major ones are long overdue. But there are far worse catastrophes coming... unless the human race can bring itself to abandon the goals and values of civilization, in other words, unless it can break the consumption habit  and we are so conditioned to consuming as a way of life that for most of us life would have no meaning without the yearnings and rewards of progressive consumption. It isn't merely that our bad habits will cause global catastrophes, but that our operative politicaleconomic philosophies have us in such a blind crab grip that they prevent us from preparing for the natural disasters that are not our fault. So the apocalyptic shit is going to hit the fan, all right, but there'll be some of us it'll miss. Little pockets of humanity. Like the Clock People. Like you two honeys, if you decide to accept my offer of a lease on Siwash Cave. There's almost no worldwide calamity  famine, nuclear accident, plague, weather warfare or reduction of the ozone shield  that you couldn't survive in that cave.
Suppose that you bear five or six children with your characteristics. All in Siwash Cave. In a postcatastrophe world, your offspring would of necessity intermarry, forming in time a tribe. A tribe every member of which had giant thumbs. A tribe of Big Thumbs would relate to the environment in very special ways. It could not use weapons or produce sophisticated tools. It would have to rely on its wits and its senses. It would have to live with animals  and plants!  as virtual equals. It's extremely pleasant to me to think about a tribe of physical eccentrics living peacefully with animals and plants, learning their languages, perhaps, and paying them the respect they deserve.
How am I going to be the progenitor of a tribe when I'm living on an isolated ridgetop with Delores?
That's your problem.
The voltage looks fine.
Then check the connections.
Does that help?
Yeah, that looks better. Thanks.
It's an apartment.
Not a dump, then, but kind of plain. Uninspired. And there's a stale smell. Sort of stuffy. I don't know. Stuffy.
Patrick, let's just get through this. We have a long night ahead of us.
Yeah.
Yeah?
Just wanted to let you know.
I like Mary. I like when she comes to visit. I just don't think she likes me.
She likes you okay.
I wonder if I should invite my girlfriend over, too. I have a girlfriend now.
You can if you want.
Did I tell you I have a new girlfriend?
This one's history. Moving on...
The thing is... my situation is a little weird. My girlfriend situation.
Patrick, we need to focus.
I gotta tell you something. I kind of fell in love with her last night.
She was unconscious, Patrick.
She was beautiful. So sweet and funky and voluptuous. I kind of stole a pair of her panties, is what.
Jesus, Patrick!
Mary hates me. I've never been popular with the ladies.
Maybe if you stopped stealing their panties.
Okay, There's more, Stan 
What's your bartlett's?
It's a quote book.
Hold on. Let me ask my friend. Stan, can I leave for a little while? My girlfriend is very 
Patrick, we're in the middle of 
She's right in the neighborhood. She's upset.
I can handle it. He's pretty much on autopilot anyway.
Thanks, Stan. I owe you.
Oh, hi.
Hi, I was in the neighborhood and thought I'd see 
I think he's in a conference. Unfortunately. I'm really sorry.
Would you just try him? You never know. As long as I'm here. You never know.
Of course. Please have a seat.
This book  It's essential that people read it because   It's the truth. And only I know it.
Maybe after the holidays then.
Ah, your journal. This will be invaluable.
December 15th, 2004. I met someone tonight. Oh, Christ: I don't know what to do. Her name is Clementine and she's amazing. So alive and spontaneous and passionate and sensitive. Things with Naomi and I have been stagnant for so long.
Mary. What are you doing here?
She came to help, Howard.
I tried that already.
Did you try going through CGate?
Yeah. Of course.
You get some sleep, Howard. I'll take it from here.
Yeah, probably a good idea.
Howard, they've disappeared again.
Oh dear.
I'll go out for a smoke. If no one minds.
That's fine, Stan.
So, I've got to drop the van off.
Thanks, Stan. Thanks.
She should not have done this, Stan. As mad as she was... as justifiably 
I don't know what you're talking about, Howard.
Mary has stolen our files and is sending them back to people.
Jesus.
Stan? What's going on?
The guy we're doing? He's disappeared from the map. I can't find him anywhere.
Okay, what happened right before he disappeared?
I was away from the monitor for a second. I had it on automatic. I had to go pee.
Well, where was Patrick?
He went home sick.
Jesus. All right, what's the address.
1062 Sherman Drive. Apartment 1E, Rockville Center.
Howard, your one o'clock.
Thanks, Mary. You can bring her in.
Mary...
Yes?
Order me a pastrami for after?
Cole slaw, ice tea?
Thanks.
Welcome, Howard.
Okay, we're back in.
That was beautiful to watch, Howard. Like a surgeon or a concert pianist.
Well, thank you, Mary.
Do you like quotes, Howard?
How do you mean?
Oh, um, like famous quotes. I find reading them inspirational to me. And in my reading I've come across some I thought you might like, too.
Oh. Well, I'd love to hear some.
Okay, um, there's one that goes "Blessed are the forgetful, for they get the better even of their blunders."
Is that Nietzsche?
Yeah, yeah it is, Howard. And here I was thinking I could tell you something you didn't know.
It's a good quote, Mary. I'm glad we both know it.
There's another one I like, I read. It's by Pope Alexander.
Alexander Pope?
Yes, shit. Oops, sorry! Sorry. It's just I told myself I wasn't going to say Pope Alexander and sound like a dope and then I go ahead and do it. Like I psyched myself out.
It's no big deal.
You are such a sweetheart.
That's lovely.
Really? I thought it was appropriate maybe. That's all. I really admire the work that you do. I know it's not proper to be so familiar but I guess since we're outside the workplace I feel a certain liberty to 
It's fine, Mary. I'm happy to hear it.
Okay. Good. Great. Thanks. I like you, Howard... an awful lot. Is that terrible?
I've loved you for a very long time. I'm sorry! I shouldn't have said that.
I've got a wife, Mary. Kids. You know that.
I wish I was your wife. I wish I had your kids.
We can't do this.
No you're right. Once again. You're a decent man, Howard.
What, Howard?
We... have a history. I'm sorry. You wanted the procedure. You wanted it done... to get past. I have to finish in there. It's almost morning. We'll talk later.
Thanks. So... do we talk about this... or what?
I don't know what I'm supposed say, Mary. I want to do the right thing here.
Do you love me? Did you love me? Something. I listened to my tape. I can't believe I've been sitting right in front of it for a year. It's like listening to someone else's story. I mean, I hear myself talking about having sex with you and I can't even imagine you naked. I can't even say "naked" to you!
I have a family, Mary.
You made me have an abortion.
It was a mutual decision.
You made me have you erased! I loved you. I love you! How could you 
I didn't make you. You thought it best. But, look, I take full responsibility.
Boo.
Hi.
Stan... c'mon...
Sorry. I just 
It's just... y'know... I mean...
I know. Anyway 
Anyway, I've got to do my tap dance here.
See you later, alligator.
'kay.
Hey, if you're ordering lunch for Mierzwiak, would you 
I better do this, Stan.
It's freezing out.
You found us okay?
Yeah. Poor guy. Have anything to drink?
We haven't checked.
Well, allow me to do the honors. It's fucking freezing and I need something.
Nietzsche. Beyond Good and Evil. Found it my Bartletts.
That's a good one.
Yeah, I can't wait to tell Howard! It seems really appropriate.
It's a good one all right.
Yup.
Don't you think Howard's like that? Smart? Important?
Yup.
Let him go, Stan. I can help.
Go.
It's amazing, isn't it? Such a gift Howard gave the world.
Yeah.
To let people begin again. It's beautiful. You look at a baby and it's so fresh, so clean, so free. And adults... they're like this messy tangle of anger and phobias and sadness... hopelessness. And Howard just makes it go away.
You love him, don't you?
It's stopped.
What?
Listen, it's not erasing.
It's not erasing. He's off the screen.
Where?
I don't know. He's not on the map.
I don't know what to do! I don't know what to do! Crap. Crap...
Well, what should we do?
I don't know! I just said that!
Sorry We have to do something. He can't wake up half done.
Shit!
No way. I can handle this.
This guy's only half cooked. There's no time to fuck around, Stan.
He's coming?
You better go.
Hell no.
Hey.
Do you swear you didn't know?
I swear.
And you never even suspected? Never saw us behaving in any unusual way together?
Once, maybe.
It was here. At his car. I was coming back from a job and spotted you together. You seemed caught. I waved. You giggled.
How did I look?
Happy. Happy with a secret.
And after that?
I never saw you together like that again. So I figured I was imagining things.
I really like you, Mary. You know that.
Do you remember anything else? What I was wearing? Was I standing close to him? Was I leaning against his car like I owned it? How did he look at me when I giggled? Tell me everything.
You were in red. That red sweater with the little flowers, I think. You were leaning against his car. He looked a little like a kid. Kind of goofy and wideeyed. I'd never seen him look like that before. Happy. You looked beautiful. You looked in love.
Thanks, Stan.
Oh.
Hi.
What do you want, Stan?
Can I... I brought some 
What's this?
Nothing.
I know what it is.
Then why did you ask me?
I don't know. I just  there are a lot of really confused people showing up at the office.
They have a right to know. Howard is a thief. He steals the truth. I can't remember my baby! I can't remember my baby. It existed and I can't even remember. Do you understand that?
Mary, people come to him voluntarily.
I won't allow it. Those who cannot remember the past are condemned to repeat it. What do you think of that? That's from my quote book.
The office is filled with people who want their memories reerased.
Remember the Alamo! Remember the Alamo!
Mary... please. This is hurting people.
Oh, hey, Patrick.
Hi, Mary. How's it going?
Oh, Patrick, you didn't want any, did you?
Nah, I don't know.
I love quotes. So did Winston Churchill. He actually has a quotation in Bartlett's about Bartlett's. Isn't that trippy?
Yeah. Cool.
"The quotations when engraved upon the memory give you good thoughts."
Very cool. Trippy.
I like to read what smart people say. So many beautiful, important things.
Definitely!
I think he'll be in Bartlett's one day.
Yours?
You take it. I don't know.
Naomi, I really value our relationship. I hope it's possible for us to stay in touch.
Don't do this to me now, Joel. Really.
So what's going on, Joel?
I don't know, I've just been thinking, maybe we're not happy with each other.
What?
Y'know, we've been, I don't know, sort of, unhappy with each other and 
Don't say "we" when you mean "you."
I think maybe, we're both so used to operating at this level that  How can one person be unhappy? If one person is unhappy, both have to be... by definition.
Bullshit. Who is it? You met someone.
No. I just need some space, maybe.
The thing is, Joel, whatever it is you think you have with this chick, once the thrill wears off, you're just going to be Joel with the same fucking problems.
It's not somebody else.
Hi.
Hi.
How was it?
You didn't miss much. Rob and Carrie say hello.
Hi, Rob and Carrie.
Go back to sleep.
Yeah. Come to bed. I'm cold.
In a minute.
So you don't mind?
I've got to finish this chapter anyway.
Say hi to Rob and Carrie. Have some fun!
I hope you get your work done.
Yeah.
So... you haven't been involved with anyone in all this time?
It's been a pretty lonely couple of years.
I'm sorry.
Well, it was my fault  the break up. I'm sorry.
Oh, sweetie. It really does cut both ways. We were taking each other for granted and 
I miss you.
Miss you, too. I have been seeing someone for a little while.
Oh! Great. That's great!
A religion instructor at Columbia. A good guy. He's a good guy.
I'm sorry. I really shouldn't have 
I'm glad you called.
So you think the dissertation will get published?
I don't know. I'm not sure there's a big public demand for books on Calvinism and Misogyny.
Okay, Joel. I suppose you're right.
I had a good time last night. I really did.
So I'm going to get some sleep. I'm glad you're okay.
We'll speak soon.
'Night.
We'll start with your most recent memories and go backwards  There is an emotional core to each of our memories  As we eradicate this core, it starts its degradation process  By the time you wake up in the morning, all memories we've targeted will have withered and disappeared. Like a dream upon waking.
Is there any sort of risk of brain damage?
Well, technically, the procedure itself is brain damage, but on a par with a night of heavy drinking. Nothing you'll miss.
I'm sorry you saw one of our notification cards. You never should have.
Well... I did.
We can help you through this. Why don't you start now by telling me everything you can remember about your relationship with Clementine.
It was a mess. I don't know how it got this way...
We can help you through this. Why don't you start now by telling me everything you can remember about 
You have to stop this!
What? What do you mean?
I'm trapped in my head and everything I love is being erased! Stop it now!
Yes, but... I'm just something you're imagining. What can I do? I'm in your head, too.
It was snowing.
There are two of them. Couldn't make them out. The orange glow of a cigarette.
The driver waved. So casual, friendly.
I'm like a joke to them.
I might be making a mistake.
Maybe I'm making a mistake. Maybe I just need to learn to live with this. First of all, I'll get over it. Secondly, it happened. Those who do not remember history are condemned to repeat it. Who said that? Churchill? I'm not sure. But I don't care. She did it to me. I have to rid myself of this. Fuck her.
Fuck you, Clementine.
Pink. There was a number on it. I remember. AL 1718? I have to follow through with this. I have no choice.
The pill was pink, I remember. It had some letters and numbers on it. What were they? AL 1718? AL something. Four digits. I don't like taking pills when I don't know what they are. I have no choice.
It's them.
It's too late.
I should maybe talk to you.
Clementine. I should just maybe talk to her.
I love you and if you knew that... if I told you what happened... I'll explain everything, what we meant to each other. I'll tell you everything about our time together. You'll know everything again and...
Maybe if I just explain what happened, I wouldn't have to go through this and I could tell you everything and it would be like you knew and we could rebuild and we could be happy again and...
Clementine.
That's your look for me.
Gotta get home. How could she do this to me? How could she not care about what we meant to each other. What a fuck! What a fucking monster she is!
Oh, God. I miss her. I can't believe she's with that guy now! I'm never going to see her again. I love her so much. What a fucking monster she is!
So then she just stops calling.
I wasn't going to call her. Not after the way she was.
Any messages, Carmen?
Right! She called me an old lady here, too! And I remember, I said...
And what are you like? A wino?
How's the chicken?
Is that like us? Are we just bored with each other?
She's so sexy.
I loved you on this day. I love this memory. The rain. Us just hanging.
I can't. I have to go home. I'll do it later.
I didn't want to do this. But I had to or they would've called me a girl.
Naomi.
On the couch. Dark. Quiet. I wondered if I had made a terrible mistake. I almost reached for the phone about a thousand times. I thought I could take it back, erase it, explain I had momentarily lost my mind. Then I told myself we weren't happy. That was the truth. That what we were was safe. It was unfair to you and to me to stay in a relationship for that reason. I thought about Clementine and the spark when I was with her, but then I thought what you and I had was real and adult and therefore significant even if it wasn't much fun. But I wanted fun. I saw other people having fun and I wanted it. Then I thought fun is a lie, that no one is really having fun; I'm being suckered by advertising and movie bullshit... then I thought maybe not, maybe not. And then I thought, as I always do at this point in my argument, about dying.
Okay. I wish you could come.
This is it. The night we met. My God, it's over.
Your back to me. In that orange sweatshirt I would come to know so well and even hate eventually. At the time I thought, how cool, an orange sweatshirt.
I remember being drawn to you even then. I thought, I love this woman because she's alone down there looking out at the black ocean.
But I went back to my food. The next thing I remember, I felt someone sitting next to me and I saw the orange sleeve out of the corner of my eye.
So you're still on the Zoloft?
Next thing I remember we were walking down near the surf.
Clementine.
I couldn't believe you did that. I was paralyzed with fear.
I really should go. I really need to catch my ride.
I didn't want to go. I was too nervous. I thought, maybe you were a nut. But you were exciting. You called from upstairs.
Hi, Naomi, it's Joel.
Hi.
How's it going?
Good. I called you at work today. They said you were home sick.
I know. I had to take the day to think.
Yeah, I tried you at home. Did you get my message?
I just got in.
Long day thinking.
That's me.
There you are. Naomi, it's just... I'm afraid if we fall back into this fast without considering the problems we had...
What took you so long?
I just walked in.
Hmmm. Do you miss me?
Oddly enough, I do.
Ha Ha! You said, I do. I guess that means we're married.
I guess so.
Tomorrow night... honeymoon on ice.
Yeah?
Did you send this? Is it a joke?
I probably got the same thing as you.
I mean, I haven't even told anyone I've met you. Who would even know to do this?
Maybe it's true then. It's my voice on the tape.
That's what you have to say? How could it be true? I never even heard of any procedure like this. It's a joke.
It's true.
I know. I spoke to my friend Magda.
Look, I have to go. I have to think.
Joel, we've fucked. We've made love. Like a million times. And we were so sweet and shy and inept with each other last night. Isn't that lovely?
Hi, it's Joel.
Hey, lover. Whatcha doing?
I'm just, y'know, passing the time best I can till I can see you.
God, I can't believe I ever hated you.
You must have been crazy.
Guess what I'm wearing.
I don't know. Panties and 
Your dried cum.
Jesus.
I'm sorry.
Why?
Why what?
Why are you sorry? I just said hi.
No, I didn't know if you were talking to me, so...
Really?
Well, I didn't want to assume.
Aw, c'mon, live dangerously. Take the leap and assume someone is talking to you in an otherwise empty car.
Anyway. Sorry. Hi.
It's okay if I sit closer? So I don't have to scream. Not that I don't need to scream sometimes, believe me. But I don't want to bug you if you're trying to write or something.
No, I mean, I don't know. I can't really think of much to say probably.
Oh. So...
I mean, it's okay if you want to sit down here. I didn't mean to 
No, I don't want to bug you if you're trying to 
It's okay, really.
Just, you know, to chat a little, maybe. I have a long trip ahead of me. How far are you going? On the train, I mean, of course.
Rockville Center.
Get out! Me too! What are the odds?
The weirder part is I think actually I recognize you. I thought that earlier in the diner. That's why I was looking at you. You work at Borders, right?
Ucch, really? You're kidding. God. Bizarre small world, huh? Yeah, that's me: book slave there for, like, five years now.
Really? Because 
Jesus, is it five years? I gotta quit right now.
 because I go there all the time. I don't think I ever saw you before.
Well, I'm there. I hide in the back as much as is humanly possible. You have a cell phone? I need to quit right this minute. I'll call in dead.
I don't have one.
I'll go on the dole. Like my daddy before me.
I noticed your hair. I guess it made an impression on me, that's why I was pretty sure I recognized you.
Ah, the hair. Blue, right? It's called Blue Ruin. The color. Snappy name, huh?
I like it.
Blue ruin is cheap gin in case you were wondering.
Yeah. Tom Waits says it in 
Exactly! Tom Waits. Which song?
I can't remember.
Anyway, this company makes a whole line of colors with equally snappy names. Red Menace, Yellow Fever, Green Revolution. That'd be a job, coming up with those names. How do you get a job like that? That's what I'll do. Fuck the dole.
I don't really know how 
Purple Haze, Pink Eraser.
You think that could possibly be a full time job? How many hair colors could there be?
Someone's got that job. Agent Orange! I came up with that one. Anyway, there are endless color possibilities and I'd be great at it.
I'm sure you would.
My writing career! Your hair written by Clementine Kruczynski. The Tom Waits album is Rain Dogs.
You sure? That doesn't sound 
I think. Anyway, I've tried all their colors. More than once. I'm getting too old for this. But it keeps me from having to develop an actual personality. I apply my personality in a paste. You?
Oh, I doubt that's the case.
Well, you don't know me, so... you don't know, do you?
Sorry. I was just trying to be nice.
Yeah, I got it.
My name's Clementine, by the way.
I'm Joel.
No jokes about my name? Oh, you wouldn't do that; you're trying to be nice.
I don't know any jokes about your name.
Huckleberry Hound?
I don't know what that means.
Huckleberry Hound! What, are you nuts?
I'm not nuts.
Oh my darlin', oh my darlin', oh my darlin' Clementine? No?
Sorry. It's a pretty name, though. It means "merciful", right?
Yeah. Although it hardly fits. I'm a vindictive little bitch, truth be told.
See, I wouldn't think that about you.
Why wouldn't you think that about me?
Oh. I don't know. I was just... I don't know. I was... You seemed nice, so 
Now I'm nice? Don't you know any other adjectives? There's careless and snotty and overbearing and argumentative... mumpish.
Well, anyway... Sorry.
I don't need nice. I don't need myself to be it and I don't need anyone else to be it at me.
Okay.
Shit. Shit. I know it's here. Hold on.
Joel? It's Joel, right?
Yes?
I'm sorry I... yelled at you. Was it yelling? I can't really tell. Whatever, I'm a little out of sorts today.
That's okay.
My embarrassing admission is I really like that you're nice. Right now, anyway. I can't tell from one moment to the next what I'm going to like. But right now I'm glad you said, "that's okay" to me. That was nice of you.
It's no problem. Anyway, I have some stuff I need to 
Oh, okay. Well, sure, I'll just... Take care, then.
Probably see you at the book store.
Unless I get that haircolornaming job.
Hi. I could give you a ride if you need.
No, that's okay. Thanks, though.
You're sure? It's cold.
I don't want to take you out of your way.
It's okay.
Yeah?
Where do you live?
You're not a stalker or anything, right?
Well, I probably wouldn't say if I were, but no.
You can't be too careful. I've been stalked. I've been told I'm highly stalkable. I don't need that.
I'm not a stalker.
You know Wilmont?
Yeah.
Wilmont. Near the high school.
Look, I'm very sorry I came off sort of nutso. I'm not really.
It's okay. I didn't think you were.
So you like bookstores, huh?
I like to read.
Me too. It is Rain Dogs, by the way.
Yeah? I can't remember that album very well. I remember liking it. But 
The song's 9th and Hennepin. I spent most of the train ride trying to remember. "Till you're full of rag water and bitters and blue ruin/And you spill out/Over the side to anyone who'll listen." Remember?
Sort of, um...
Remember? "And you take on the dreams of the ones who have slept there/And I'm lost in the window/I hide on the stairway/I hang in the curtain/I sleep in your hat..." Oh, shit. I'm so stupid. Sorry.
What?
I'm just a bit of a wreck. "I sleep in your hat" makes me cry. Me.
Thanks very much. That was very nice of you.
Well, I wouldn't want to be 
Oh, geez, I'm full of shit. I already told you that. Anyway. See Ya.
Take care.
Hey, do you want to have a drink? I have lots of drinks. And I could 
Um 
Never mind. Sorry, that was stupid. I'm embarrassed. Good night, Joel.
You like that?
Very much.
This... someone gave that to me, just like, recently. I like it, too. I like crows. I think I used to be a crow.
Thanks. That was good, that crow sound.
Do you believe in that stuff? Reincarnation?
I don't know.
Me neither. Oh, there's an inscription on the back. The way a crow/Shook down on me/The dust of snow/From a hemlock tree/Has given my heart/A change of mood/And saved some part/Of a day I rued.
Frost?
Yeah. I'm not, like, a Robert Frost lover by any stretch. His stuff seems strictly grade school to me. But this made me cry for some reason. Maybe because it is grade school. Y'know?
It's pretty.
I miss grade school. I don't know why I'm calling it grade school all of a sudden. When I went we called it elementary school. But I like grade school better. Sounds like something someone from the forties would call it. I'd like to be from then. Everyone wore hats. Anyway, cheers!
Cheers.
God, that feels so fucking good. Take yours off.
I'm fine.
Yeah? Well, have a seat, anyway.
Ready for another?
No, I'm okay for now.
What do you want to hear?
You pick it.
You just say. I'm not really 
I don't know! I can't see them from here, Joel! Just pick something good.
Well, I should probably get going.
No, stay. Just for a little while. Refill?
No. I 
I know a man who needs a refill.
Thanks.
Drink up, young man. It'll make the whole seduction part less repugnant.
Y'know, I'm sort of psychic.
Yeah?
Well, I go to a psychic and she's always telling me I'm psychic. She should know. Do you believe in that stuff?
I don't know.
Me neither. But sometimes I have premonitions, so, I don't know. Maybe that's just coincidence. Right? Y'know, you think something and then it happens, or you think a word and then someone says it? Y'know?
Yeah, I don't know. It's hard to know.
Exactly. Exactly! That's exactly my feeling about it. It's hard to know. Like, okay, but how many times do I think something and it doesn't happen? That's what you're saying, right? You forget about those times. Right?
Yeah, I guess.
But I think I am. I like to think I am.
It's helpful to think there's some order to things. You're kind of closed mouthed, aren't you?
Sorry. My life isn't that interesting. I go to work. I go home. I don't know what to say.
Oh. Does that make you sad? Or anxious? I'm always anxious thinking I'm not living my life to the fullest, y'know? Taking advantage of every possibility? Just making sure that I'm not wasting one second of the little time I have.
I think about that.
You're really nice. I'm sorry I yelled at you before about it. God, I'm an idiot.
I do have a tendency to use that word too much.
I like you. That's the thing about my psychic thing. I think that's my greatest psychic power, that I get a sense about people. My problem is I never trust it. But I get it. And with you I get that you're a really good guy.
Thanks.
And, anyway, you sell yourself short. I can tell. There's a lot of stuff going on in your brain. I can tell. My goal... can I tell you my goal?
Yeah.
What's the goal, Joel? My goal, Joel, is to just let it flow through me? Do you know what I mean? It's like, there's all these emotions and ideas and they come quick and they change and they leave and they come back in a different form and I think we're all taught we should be consistent. Y'know? You love someone  that's it. Forever. You choose to do something with your life  that's it, that's what you do. It's a sign of maturity to stick with that and see things through. And my feeling is that's how you die, because you stop listening to what is true, and what is true is constantly changing. You know?
Yeah. I think so. It's hard to 
Like I wanted to talk to you. I didn't need any more reason to do it. Who knows what bigger cosmic reason might exist?
Yeah.
You're very nice. God, I have to stop saying that. You're nervous around me, huh?
No.
I'm nervous. You don't need to be nervous around me, though. I like you. Do you think I'm repulsively fat?
No, not at all.
I don't either. I used to. But I'm through with that. Y'know, if I don't love my body, then I'm just lost. You know? With all the wrinkles and scars and the general falling apart that's coming 'round the bend. So, I've been seeing this guy...
Well, for the last week, anyway! He's kind of a kid. Kind of a goofball, but he's really stuck on me, which is flattering. Who wouldn't like that? And he's, like, a dope, but he says these smart and moving things sometimes, out of nowhere, that just break my heart. He's the one who gave me that crow photograph.
Oh, yeah.
That made me cry. But, anyway, we went up to Boston, because I had this urge to lie on my back on the Charles River. It gets frozen this time of year.
That's scary sounding.
Exactly! I used to do it in college and I had this urge to go do it again, so I got Patrick and we drove all night to get there and he was sweet and said nice things to me, but I was really disappointment to be there with him. Y'know? And that's where psychic stuff comes in. Like, it just isn't right with him. Y'know?
I think so.
I don't believe in that soulmate crap anymore, but... he says so many great things. We like the same writers. This writer Stephen Dixon he turned me on to. And he's cute. It's fucked up. Joel, you should come up to the Charles with me sometime.
Okay.
Yeah? Oh, great!
I'll pack a picnic  a night picnic  night picnics are different  and 
Sounds good. But right now I should go.
You should stay.
I have to get up early in the morning tomorrow, so...
Okay.
I would like you to call me. Would you do that? I would like that.
Yes.
So, I enjoyed meeting you.
You'll call me, right?
Yeah.
When?
Tomorrow?
Tonight. Just to test out the phone lines and all.
Okay.
How could she have done this to me? How could anyone do this to anyone?
You didn't say anything about my hair.
Yo ho ho!
It's three.
I can't believe you wrecked my car. You're driving drunk. It's pathetic.
...a little. I was a little tipsy. Don't call me pathetic.
Well it is pathetic. And fucking irresponsible. You could've killed somebody.
I don't know, maybe you did kill somebody.
Oh Christ I didn't kill anybody. It's just a fucking dent. You're like some old lady or something.
A wino? Jesus, Are you from the fifties? A wino! Face it, Joel. You're freaked out because I was out late without you, and in your little wormy brain, you're trying to figure out, did she fuck someone tonight?
No, see, Clem, I assume you fucked someone tonight. Isn't that how you get people to like you?
Let me drive you home.
Fuck you, Joel. Faggot.
Look at it out here. It's falling apart. I'm erasing you. And I'm happy.
How can you watch this crap?
Where are you going?
I'm fucking crawling out of my skin.
Oh shit. I remember this. Want to go?
I want to have a baby.
Let's talk about it later.
No. I want to have a baby. I have to have a baby.
I don't think we're ready.
You're not ready.
Clementine, do you really think you could take care of a kid?
What?!
I don't want to talk about this here.
Joel, We're fucking gonna talk about it!
You can't fucking say something like that and say you don't want to talk about it!
Clem, I'm sorry. I shouldn't have 
I'd make a fucking good mother! I love children! I'm creative and smart and I'd make a fucking good mother!
Oh, thank God. It's going.
It's you! It's you who can't commit to anything! You have no idea how lucky you are I'm interested in you! I don't even know why I am! I should just end it right here, Joel. Leave you in the zoo. Maybe you could find a nice sloth to hang out with!
So, um 
Would you get me another, Joely?
You're drunk.
You're a whiz kid. So perceptive, so 
You don't tell me things, Joel. I'm an open book. I tell you everything. Every damn embarrassing thing. You don't trust me.
No, it isn't that.
I want to know you.
I just don't have anything very interesting about my life.
Joel, you're a liar.
More?
No. Thanks.
Joely...
Yeah, Tangerine?
Do you know The Velveteen Rabbit?
No.
It's my favorite book. Since I was a kid. It's about these toys. There's this part where the skin Horse tells the rabbit what it means to be real. I can't believe I'm crying already. He says, "It takes a long time. That's why it doesn't often happen to people who break easily or have sharp edges, or who have to be carefully kept. Generally by the time you are Real, most of your hair has been loved off, and your eyes drop out and you get loose in the joints and very shabby. But these things don't matter at all, because once you are Real you can't be ugly, except to people who don't understand."
Such a beautiful view.
Yes indeed. Fuck! They're erasing you, Clem!
Oh?
I hired them to. We're in my brain. But I want it to stop, before I wake up and don't know you anymore.
Wow. Um, well... can't you just force yourself awake?
I don't know.
What if you hide me?
What do you mean?
Well... if they're looking for me in memories I'm in, what if you take me to a memory I'm not in? And we can hide there till morning.
I want my mommy. I don't want to lose you, Clem.
I'm right here.
I'm scared. I want my mommy. I don't want to lose you. I don't want to lose...
Joel, Joely, look... it's not fading. The memory. I think we're hidden.
You know, we're okay. They're not finding us. You'll remember me in the morning. And you'll come to me and tell me about us and we'll start over.
I loved you so much this day. On my bed in your panties. I remember I thought, how impossibly lucky am I to have you on my bed in your panties.
You remember what happened next?
I came over to the bed and you smelled so good, like you just woke up, slightly sweaty. And I climbed on the bed with you and you said something like 
 another rainy day. Whatever shall we do?
There's this guy!
What?
There's this guy. I heard him talking in my apartment. He's one of the eraser guys. And he fell for you when they were erasing you, so he introduced himself the next day as if he were a stranger and now you're dating him.
Really? Is he cute?
He stole a pair of your panties while you were being erased!
Gross! You must remember to tell me this in the morning. I'm, like, so freaked out now.
But can't you see... I love you, Antoine.
Don't call me Antoine. My name is Wally.
Yes, but I can't love a man named Wally.
They found us before. The plan didn't work. I don't know what to do now.
Hide me somewhere deeper? Somewhere buried?
Look at you, cutey! What are we doing?
This kid, Joe Early, is going to beat the shit out of me.
Joel!
I don't like it either, but I'm just trying to find horrible secret place to 
Happy Birthday.
Thanks, Joely. A present! Oh boy!
I scoured the city for it.
I love it!
I'm done, Clem. I'm just going to ride it out. Hiding is clearly not working.
Yeah.
I want to enjoy my little time left with you.
This is our first "date" date.
Do you remember what we talked about?
Naomi, I guess.
Yeah.
What was I wearing?
God, I should know. Your hair was red. I remember it matched the wallpaper.
Egad, were you horrified?
No! I think you were wearing that black dress, y'know, with the buttons.
Right. Something black though.
I'll buy that. Black's always good.
We did talk about Naomi.
I said: Are you sure? You seem unsure.
I'm sure, I said.
But you weren't. I could tell.
I was so nervous. I remember I couldn't think of anything to say. There were long silences.
I thought I was foolish. I thought I'd mistaken infatuation for love. You said:
So what. Infatuation is good, too.
And I didn't have an argument.
I dropped you off after. You said 
Come up and see me... now.
It's very late.
Yes, exactly. Exactly my point.
I told her today I need to end it.
Is that what you want?
I did it. I guess that means something.
I didn't think you'd show your face around me again. I figured you were humiliated. You did run away, after all.
Sorry to track you down like this. I'm not a stalker. But I needed to see you.
Yeah?
I'd like to... take you out or something.
Well, you're married.
Not yet. Not married.
Look, man, I'm telling you right off the bat, I'm high maintenance. So I'm not going to tiptoe around your marriage or whatever it is you got going there. If you want to be with me, you're with me.
Okay.
So make your domestic decisions and maybe we'll talk again.
Joel, I'm not a concept. I want you to just keep that in your head. Too many guys think I'm a concept or I complete them or I'm going to make them alive, but I'm just a fuckedup girl who is looking for my own peace of mind. Don't assign me yours.
I remember that speech really well.
I had you pegged, didn't I?
You had the whole human race pegged.
Probably.
I still thought you were going to save me. Even after that.
I know.
It would be different, if we could just give it another go around.
Remember me. Try your best. Maybe we can.
Hi there.
Hi.
You said...
I saw you sitting over here. By yourself. I thought, thank God, someone normal, who doesn't know how interact at these things either.
Yeah. I don't ever know what to say.
I can't tell you how happy I am to hear that. I mean, I don't mean I'm happy you're uncomfortable, but, yknow... I'm such a loser. Every time I come to a party I tell myself I'm going to be different and it's always exactly the same and then I hate myself after for being such a clod.
Even then I didn't believe you entirely. I thought how could you be talking to me if you couldn't talk to people?
You know what I did.
Yeah, I know. I'm fishing.
You said 
I'm Clementine. Can I borrow a piece of your chicken?
And you picked it out of my plate before I could answer and it felt so intimate like we were already lovers.
Oh God, how horrid.
I'm Joel.
You mean, like... Oh, my darlin', oh, my darlin', oh, my darlin', Clementine... ? Huckleberry Hound? That sort of thing?
Yeah, like that.
Nope. No jokes. My favorite thing when I was a kid was my Huckleberry Hound doll. I think your name is magic.
This is it, Joel. It's gonna be gone soon.
I know.
What do we do?
Enjoy it. Say goodbye.
No, I stopped. I didn't want to feel like I was being artificially modulated.
I know what you mean. That's why I stopped.
But my sleeping is really fucked up.
I don't think I've slept in a year.
You should try Xanax. I mean, it's a chemical and all, but it works... and it works just having it around, knowing that it's there. Like insurance.
yeah?
I'll give you a couple. See what you think.
Okay.
Have you ever read any Anna Akhmatova?
I love her.
Really? Me, too! I don't meet people who even know who she is and I work in a book store.
I think she's great.
Me too. There's this poem 
Did this conversation come before or after we saw the house?
I think, before.
Seems too coincidental that way.
Yeah, maybe.
Do you know her poem that starts "Seaside gusts of wind,/And a house in which we don't live...
Yeah, yeah. It goes "Perhaps there is someone in this world to whom I could send all these lines"?
Yes! I love that poem. It breaks my heart. I'm so excited you know it. Look, houses in which we don't live.
I wish we did. You married?
Um, no.
Let's move into this neighborhood.
I do sort of live with somebody though.
Oh.
Male or female?
Female.
At least I haven't been barking up the wrong tree.
Cool.
What are you doing?
It's freezing out here.
C'mon, man. The water's fine. Nobody's coming here tonight, believe me. This place is closed up. Electricity's off.
I hesitated for what seemed like forever.
I could see you wanted to come in, Joel.
I knew.
I knew by your nervousness that Naomi wasn't the kind of girl who forced you to criminally trespass.
It's dark.
Yeah. What's your girlfriend's name?
Naomi.
Ahha! Now I can look for candles, matches, and the liquor cabinet.
I think we should go.
No, it's our house! Just tonight   we're David and Ruth Laskin. Which one do you want to be? I prefer to be Ruth but I'm flexible. Alcohol! You make drinks. I'm going find the bedroom and slip into something more Ruth. I'm ruthless at the moment.
So go.
I did. I walked out the door. I felt like I was a scared little kid. I thought you knew that about me. I ran back to the bonfire, trying to outrun my humiliation. You said, "so go" with such disdain.
What if you stay this time?
I walked out the door. There's no more memory.
Come back and make up a goodbye at least. Let's pretend we had one.
Bye, Joel.
I love you.
So you'll call me, right?
Yeah.
When?
Tomorrow?
Tonight. Just to test out the phone lines.
Yeah.
Don't worry. It's really solid this time of year.
I don't know.
I don't know. What if it breaks?
What if?
I think I should go back.
Joel, come here. Please.
Listen, did you want to make love?
Make love?
Have sex. Y'know 
Oh, um...
Because I just am not drunk enough or stoned enough to make that happen right now.
That's okay. I 
I'm sorry. I just wanted to say that. This seems like the perfect romantic exotic place to do it and 
Hey, Joel 
 and I'm just too nervous around you right now.
I'm nervous, too.
Yeah? I wouldn't have thought that.
Well, you obviously don't know me.
I'm nervous because I have and enormous crush on you.
Says you were closed off, non communicative, never told me what you were feeling.
Says you were a bully...
A bully? Moi?
That's what it says. You drank too much, you picked on me for being passive and timid.
Well, sounds like me. Sorry, man. Says you were jealous and suspicious.
Says you would sometimes disappear all night, then brag to me about your sexual conquests.
Did I use the term "sexual conquests" or is that your way of putting it.
I don't know.
Doesn't sound like me.
Says you were a slob, leaving trails of panties and dirty socks in your wake.
Says you were constantly calling me a slob. It's sexy that we were like a married couple, griping and overlyfamiliar and bored. Don't you think?
I sort of do. But I only see it as a fantasy version of reality. Cleaned up enough to be erotic.
We should have sex. It's old hat for us.
You're still excited by my irreverence. You haven't yet started to think of it as my "gratuitous need to shock."
I can't stop thinking about you.
Yay. Meet me after work by the old mill.
What old mill? Is that somewhere we 
I just wanted to say that. Come by my house.
How are you today?
Okay, I guess.
Well, why don't you tell me what's going on? Do you mind if I turn this on?
Well, I've been having a bad time of it with um, my boyfriend, I guess.
You guess he's your boyfriend? Or you guess you're having a bad time with him?
What? No. I don't like the term boyfriend. It's so gay.
Maybe gay isn't the right word. But, anyway, it's been rough with him... whatever the fuck he is. Heheh. My significant other... heh heh. And I guess on a certain level, I want to break it off, but I feel... y'know... it's like this constant questioning and re questioning. Do I end it? Should I give it more time? I'm not happy, but what do I expect? Relationships require work. You know the drill. The thing that I keep coming back to is, I'm not getting any younger, I want to have a baby... at some point... maybe... right? So then I think I should settle  which is not necessarily the best word  I mean, he's a good guy. It's not really settling. Then I think maybe I'm just a victim of movies, y'know? That I have some completely unrealistic notion of what a relationship can be. But then I think, no, this is what I really want, so I should allow myself the freedom to go out and fucking find it. You know? Agreed? But then I think he is a good guy and... It's complicated. Y'know?
I think I know. I think we can help. Why don't you start by telling me about your relationship. Everything you can think of. Everything about him. Everything about you. And we'll take it from there.
I just thought I'd say hi. I was in the neighborhood.
You were not.
I was not.
Come over after I'm done here?
I can't. I want to, but I have to study.
You rat.
I really want to, but tonight's important. Test tomorrow.
It's so cool. You're by far the most sensational person in the room.
In the room?
In the world.
Oh, baby, what's going on?
I don't know. I'm lost. I'm scared. I feel like I'm disappearing. I'm getting old and nothing makes any sense to me.
Oh, Tangerine.
Nothing makes any sense. Nothing makes any sense.
Come up to Boston with me?
Sure. We'll go next weekend and 
Now. Now! I have to go now. I have to see the frozen Charles! Now! Tonight!
Um, okay. I'll call my study partner.
Yay! It'll be great! I'll get my shit.
I'm so excited. Yay!
I'm excited, too. Oh, and I wanted to give you this. It's a little... thing.
I didn't have a chance to wrap it.
It's gorgeous. Just my taste. I've never gone out with a guy who brought me a piece of jewelry I liked. Thanks. So let's get going. Long drive.
What's wrong with me?
Nothing is wrong with you. You're the most wonderful person I've ever met.
May I help you?
Yeah, hi, I have a one o'clock with Dr. Mierzwiak. Clementine Kruczynski.
Yes, please have a seat. He'll be right with you.
Ms. Kruczynski?
Hi.
How are you today?
Okay, I guess.
Here we are.
Shit. The last time I saw you.
Anyhoo, sweetie, I done a bad thing. I kinda sorta wrecked your car...
But I thought, I don't know, I thought it was cool that you were sensitive enough to know what I was feeling and that you were attracted to it.
But, I don't know, maybe we're the normal ones, y'know? I mean, what kind of people do well at this stuff?
And I just liked you so much.
You did? You liked me?
No, it was lovely.
Hi, Joel. So no jokes about my name?
I don't know, honey. It's horrible.
She's punishing me for being honest. I should just go to her house.
Maybe you need to look at this as a sign to move on. Just make a clean break.
I don't know. I'm so... I can't believe she'd be so goddamn immature!
You weren't supposed to see that.
They can't erase memories. It's a joke. It's a nasty Clementine hoax.
Sweetie, we called the company.
Thanks, guys.
I hope you feel better, sweetie.
Yeah.
Say hi to Naomi.
I'm sorry Naomi couldn't make it. You okay? You seem quiet.
Just a little overworked, maybe.
I remember you turned around. Your face was dark and your hair was backlit  I could see a halo of frizz  you asked me if things were okay between Naomi and me.
I did. You said, things were fine.
I remember.
This is the night you met Clementine, Joel. I remember watching you walk down the beach with her and I thought, oh shit.
Yeah, you told me that later.
I told you that later.
Who was the girl you walked off with?
No one.
And you've got BOTH axes?
Yes, Mother.
And something to sharpen them with?
Yes, Mum.
And don't forget: never let your enemy get behind you.
No, Mother.
And keep your sword greased.
Yes, Mother. Goodbye, Dad.
And if you have to kill somebody, KILL them! Don't stop to think about it.
I never do...
He's not in Valhalla! He died of old age!
You liar!
Well I'M certainly not, either.
Neither am I.
Well... I'm game.
Me too.
Shut up.
Erik's right! We'll all meet in Valhalla.
Thorfinn! You can't die!
I'm not frightened... of anything...
You'll see my grandfather in Valhalla!
No... he's not... not... there...
Tell him I'm coming!
It's a tradition.
I know, Dad.
I was a Berserk for King Harald Fairhair...
You went berserk...
I went berserk in every battle I ever fought for King Harald...
So did your father...
So did my father and his father before him.
But it's a responsibility...
But it's a responsibility being a Berserk.
I must only let the red rage...
You must only let the red rage take hold of you in the thick of battle.
I KNOW! I'VE HEARD IT ALL 1 THOUSAND TIMES!
We're being attacked! KILL! Kill! Kill!
Not now, Sven...
I must KILL! Kill!
It's no good going berserk against a dragon!
KILL! KILL!
Stop it!
HOLD it! HOLD it in!
DEATH TO DRAGONS!
Well, of course he is!
Sh!
There! THAT'S a true Berserk.
I'm just building up to it, Dad.
Well, go on! Go berserk!
GIVE US A CHANCE, Dad!
There is nothing we can do...
Helpless...
He drove me mad!
Easy, Dad!
And his "you'll never be a Berserk if you lose your temper"...
Dad!
I hate you! I hate you!
Ooh, that's a good one! You could charge Halfdan fifteen for that one.
Yes, it is good. But I told him ten.
You could charge him what you like.
You just can't make enough swords and spears and knives and daggers to satisfy the demand. You could charge Halfdan twenty and he'd pay it.
Oh, I couldn't do that! The Blacksmith's Code says...
Yes yes... of course.... the "Blacksmith's Code"...
If this IS the Age of Ragnarok, Keitel Blacksmith, it is GOOD to us.
Can't make enough swords!
Can't make enough axeheads!
But, Keitel, if Erik ever finds the Horn Resounding... if he ever crosses BiFrost, the Rainbow Bridge... if he ever wakens the gods..
They chase Fenrir the Wolf from the sky...
The Age of Ragnarok ends...
The bottom falls out of the sword business!
It's not just YOUR livelihood that's at stake but your son's, and the livelihood of ALL blacksmiths.
My brother blacksmiths!
That's right.
The Blacksmith's Code says I must...
Honour and protect all blacksmiths.
Together we stand!
You can't let Erik do THAT.
Wasn't it, Keitel?
Well... I... I thought...
Are you going to let Erik wake the Gods?
How can we stops him now?
Sh! Hurry!
YOU do it!
You'll be able to throw it further than I could.
I can't swim! I can't swim!
Relax!
I'm drowning! Help!
Urrgh! Argh! Let go, you idiot!
Help!
You'll drown us bo...
Help!
Help!
Shut up!
She knows it was our fault!
Keep your mouth shut, Keitel!
No! It's YOU, Loki! I should never have listened to you!
You've lost your mind.
We came to stop you waking the Gods, Erik! But I didn't want anyone to get hurt!
You fool!
I should have got rid of you long ago!
Like you got rid of Snorri!
Made by YOU, Loki!
By YOU  Keitel Blacksmith! Don't you know, Erik, that is why he went with you? Ragnarok was good for his business...
It's not my business any more!
Well! Come on!
I... I...
Who's that?
It's me. I'm just going to water the dragon...
Oh...
What?
What are you doing, Keitel Blacksmith?
Get away, Snorri.
What have you got there?
Aaagh!
Got you!
Let me go, Sven.
What are you talking about?
I'm not worth risking your life for.
I've got you, Keitel Blacksmith. If you go... I go too...
For your own sake... For the others... I...
Hang on...
Are you all right?
No, I'm not.
You don't need to feel bad about being seasick, you know.
How can you help feeling bad when you're seasick?
I mean many of the greatest sailors were.
I know. I know.
Olaf Tryggvason used to throw up on every single voyage... the whole time... nonstop... puke... puke... puke.
Look! I don't feel BAD about it. I just feel ILL.
He used to puke in his sleep.
Bastard.
Is it sort of... like a sinking feeling in your stomach?
That's it!
And a sort of slightly sick feeling?
That's it! AND you keep wanting to go to the lavatory.
Oh, yes! I hadn't noticed that!
Oh! Who cares? We're HOME!
Mum! Dad!
You coming? You don't even believe in Asgaard.
I thought I might do a bit of business on the way.
You're wasting your time.
Listen. I've been in this dump for sixteen years and I haven't made a single convert...
There was Thorbjorn Vifilsson's wife. You converted HER.
Thorbjorn Vifilsson's wife became a Buddhist, not a Christian.
Same thing, isn't it?
No, it is NOT.
You know, my son, our lord said...
Your lord.
Quite... MY lord... said: "The Prayer of Faith shall have the sick."
I hope the Dragon of the North Sea gets YOU AND your lord.
What's all the panic about?
The Dragon...
It can't do you any HARM...
What do we have to do?
Nothing... I just immerse you in water...
How did he do that?
Do what?
Vanish into thin air?
He hasn't.
Well, where is he then?
Bye, Leif.
Bye... sorry...
Yeah... well...
You will wait?
What d'you expect me to do?
That's why they call me... Leif the Lucky.
Please.
And you, Sven, aren't you afraid of crossing the Rainbow Bridge to Asgaard?
I will join my grandfather there.
What are you talking about, Erik?
What if we could find BiFrost the Rainbow Bridge?
Only the dead reach Asgaard, Erik.
What's the matter? Are you afraid to try?
Nobody's ever crossed the Rainbow Bridge to Asgaard.
We'd be the first!
But HOW?
I don't know  but I'm not afraid to try.
Hey, you two! What's going on?
I was sitting there.
Look, I bagged it last week.
It doesn't matter WHERE you sit!
Yes it does! We could be at sea for months.
Well, what difference does it make where you're SITTING?
I don't want to have to sit next to Snorri all that time.
I AM one, Dad!
We haven't got a spare place.
ROW!
DEATH!
She hasn't got any.
She MUST have a knife or something...
HyBrasil?
Is THIS HyBrasil?
We must blow the first note... he note that will take us to Asgaard...
Over the Edge of the World.
Sven!
Let me do something for myself for a change!
I came to find my grandfather.
I have to go...
Wait, Erik!
Keitel Blacksmith?
Bjorn's not. He could have Bjorn's place.
What's the matter with Bjorn?
What do you think?
But how could he know... unless...
And you, Keitel Blacksmith.
But...
Well, what else do we do?
How about making friends?
So Halfdan the Black's using magic, is he? Well, I have a magic to match his!
What is it?
Don't you see, Erik! She wants revenge!
What are you talking about?
There is another way.
Who gets killed?
Nobody gets killed.
You need to say a bit more than that!
Oh... er... yes...
What's the matter with them?
Just say something cheerful.
Oh... right! Well... CHEERS everybody!
I think we should go...
Right. Farewell... for the last time... may the gods prevent...
No, don't say anything else!
You mean we'd be dead?
No! We'd be the first living men to set foot in the Halls of the Gods.
Thank you VERY much indeed.
Now stop it!
It's SO nice to feel wanted.
Leif, you sit there. Even, you sit there. Harald, you'd better sit over there...
Trust me to get the missionary.
You can't have Sven's father sitting next to Sven. They'll argue the whole time.
That's true. You'd better sit there. You there, and Ornulf there.
Now you've got all the big ones on one side.
That's better.
Now you've got all the ones with beards on one side and all the moustaches on the other.
Row!
Has anyone told him we've got a dragon eating our boat?
First we're flying  now we're sinking!
Well, come on!
Listen! Maybe we won't get to Hy Brasil! Maybe we won't find the Horn Resounding... but at least we've tried... and at least we shall have died like men.
Like fish.
A magic dishcloth.
To the oars!
Weren't we supposed to?
Oh... I feel a little... oh...
No! Let go, Snorri!
I've got you!
You'll be sucked down too!
No! Arrgh!
You must help us.
We don't HAVE to help anybody.
Fenrir the Wolf covers the sun  men fight and kill each other the whole time.
Why should WE care?
Because... you're... you're the Gods....
So?
Bring the Age of Ragnarok to an end and stop all this fighting and bloodshed.
Erik the Viking! The things you seek are not in our power. We don't make men love each other or hate each other.
But you're the Gods!
Look... Erik...
What are YOU doing here?
You may need a real Berserk.
Ohh! I wanted to sit next to Leif.
Shut up. You there. You there and you there.
SHUT UP!
ROW!
Look, the sky is blue...
The sun! That's it!
It's magic.
What "magic"?
I've heard stories of a magic that strikes fear into the heart so you cannot fight.
What "magic" have you brought, Erik?
You'll see!
What did he say?
Look out!
He can have my place. I don't want to go anyway.
Well, you ARE!
I want to die... No, I don't!
Row! Row! Row!
Slower! Nobody can row at that speed!
Sorry.
Slower! In... Out...
Sorry!
Faster!
Make your mind up.
We're missing all the fun...
What's it all about?
What?
We toil and labor, we loot and pillage, rape and kill... and yet...
You talking piffle, son?
Where does it all get us, Grandpa?
Who have you been talking to?
I met this girl...
It's always the women that start the trouble.
She got me thinking...
So? What'd you do to her?
I... I... KILLED her...
That's my boy!
FIND the Rainbow Bridge?
Find it... AND cross it!
"But" what?
But...
What?
Nothing... Halfdan the Black chopped his hand off last night.
He was lucky... Sit there.
What are you talking about?
Come on, move it!
It's Halfdan the Black!
I know. Snorri! Get your oar out!
Erik! Row! What are you doing?
It saved my father!
How deep IS the ocean?
Very deep... usually...
Let's hack her to pieces.
No.
What's wrong with making friends?
You don't go through all the hardships of an ocean voyage to make "friends".
That's terrible!
You mean if just ONE PERSON gets killed?
Halfdan the Black's here!
I know!
He wants to KILL us.
But. You're not even afraid of DEATH, Thorfinn!
I know. I know.
It's not magic! It's just a trick!
Don't you FEEL it?
Have you done this sort of thing before?
Me? Of course! I've been looting and pillaging up and down the coast.
Looting and pillaging, eh?
Yes.
What about the raping?
Shut up.
It's obvious you haven't raped anyone in your life.
Sh!
Of course I like women... I LOVE 'em.
You don't love ME.
No... right... this is RAPE... Mark you, I'm not saying I couldn't get to like you... in fact... well, to be quite honest, I prefer it when there's some sort of mutual feeling between two people...
What  rape?
No. It isn't rape then, is it?
Oh, get it over with.
I don't suppose... no...
What?
I don't suppose you... you DO like me at all?
What d'you expect? You come in here, burn my village, kill my family and try to rape me...
I'll kill you if you say anything about this to anyone.
About raping me?
About NOT raping you...
You DON'T like it, do you?
Well it just seems a little bit crude, that's all.
What about the killing and looting? That's just as crude, isn't it?
Oh well  you've GOT to do them.
Why? Why have you got to go round killing and looting?
To pay for the next expedition, of course.
But that's a circular argument! If the only reason for going on an expedition is the killing and looting and the only reason for the killing and looting is to pay for the next expedition, they cancel each other out.
Oh! Stop talking as if we were married!
Well you started it.
I just said I didn't feel like raping you.
And I was just saying that rape is no MORE pointless or crude than all the killing and looting that goes on.
Scream.
Ah.
Louder.
Aaagh! Rape!
Oh, thanks.
Thanks for saving me from a fate worse than death.
I didn't mean to!
Oh, that's all right then... it's the thought... that counts...
You told them I raped you  why?
I dunno... you looked so... so vulnerable...
Why should you care?
Why... should YOU care?
Tell me your name?
I've come to take you back to the land of the living.
What a stupid idea.
Why?
What's the point of being dead in the land of the living?
I'll ask the Gods to give you life again!
Have you tried to ask the God for anything?
Well... no...
Is THAT Odin?
You'll have to wait till he's finished his game.
Odin!
Why should you care?
I don't know! I just did!
No... we don't...
The Gods decreed that if ever a sword spills human blood upon these shores, the whole of HyBrasil will sink beneath the waves.
How?
Well... for a start... er... there's no killing...
Well, OBVIOUSLY there's no killing.
Well... isn't it great?
Would you like us to sing to you?
That's very kind of you, but we're in rather a hurry... We're...
What's the matter, don't you WANT to hear our singing?
Oh... well, yes, of course; it's just we're looking for the Horn Resounding and 
You don't think our singing's going to be good enough for you?
Oh, no no no! It's just the Horn Resounding is...
A lot of people like our singing.
I'm sure it's lovely.
But you don't want to hear it.
No... no... We'd love to hear it. Wouldn't we?
Er... well... we... we... would be TERRIBLY grateful if you... all... would sing for us.
You're just saying that.
Of course we're not; we'd genuinely like to hear you sing.
REALLY?
Really.
And you're not just saying it because you think we want you to?
No.
Right! Summon the musicians! We'll do the one that goes "TUMTUMTUM TUMTITUMTUM"
We're just not a very musical nation...
No, no... It was very... er, nice.
Now I want you to be ABSOLUTELY, totally, genuinely honest with me. Did you really, truly, honestly like it?
No.
They didn't like it! Oh God! I want to die!
Your Majesty! We come from a world where there IS no music. Where men live and die by the axe and by the sword...
Well, how d'you think I feel?
The Gods are asleep, King Arnulf.
YOU try to be nice to people, when they're rude about your singing...
I'll tell you what...
Yes?
Careful! They're not supposed to hurt you.
You've got to let me go!
It's all part of our safety regulations. You see if someone were to get hurt they might get angry and then... well...
They'll be more than "hurt" if Halfdan the Black lands! Ow!
He's trying to stop us waking the Gods.
Why?
Because that's how he makes his money, by war and plunder!
Don't talk nonsense.
He wants to kill US!
Not when we explain about the Great Blessing.
You don't know Halfdan the Black.
I know that the Great Blessing has kept the peace for a thousand years, and will keep it for the next thousand.
Is there something the matter with it?
Oh! No! No... of course not... it's just I hadn't expected it to be quite so big.
Well, it's not called the Horn Resounding for nothing. You DO know how to play the horn, don't you?
Yes... oh, yes...
Then I expect you'll be leaving first thing in the morning.
But it IS! Look!
The important thing is not to panic.
Now what CAN you want with me, Erik the "Viking"?
I shouldn't have come.
They will make fun of you for listening to an old woman's stories?
What do you see, Erik?
I see the world.
Is it night or day, Erik?
It is day, of course, Freya.
Is it summer or winter, Erik?
Have you ever seen the sun, Erik?
The sun is up beyond the clouds  where it always is.
But have you ever seen it? Think back...
Of course not... but... when I was a child... I remember a dream.... it was as if the whole sky was blue...
The sky WAS blue, Erik... once.
Is there nothing men can do?
The Gods are asleep, Erik.
I will go and wake them up!
And will the dead ever return, Freya?
That I cannot tell you.
LOKI! Where did YOU come from?
Halfdan wanted to stop you waking the Gods... so... I disguised myself to sabotage their plans.
But 
It was my master Keitel's idea.
But... How is it you can see me? You can all see me?
What d'you mean?
How do we know this is the way?
We blew the Horn Resounding.
SHE blew the Horn Resounding.
WHAT did you say?
I said welcome.
WELCOME?
Well, of course. We always welcome friends.
How d'you KNOW we're "friends"?
Well, EVERYONE is friends here on Hy Brasil.
Please! Please! What are those?
What are what?
Those things in your hands.
These? What are THESE? They're swords.
What's the matter?
PLEASE! You don't know what you're doing!
What?
Put them down! PLEASE make them put them down.
WHY?
Yes.
But surely you know...?
Have you ever felt like this about anyone else?
What... you mean "got into bed with" them?
No, of course not, silly  I mean FELT like this about them?
You mean... you HAVE got into bed with somebody else?
No, I mean have you ever felt that for the first time in your life you'd met somebody you could believe in with your whole heart... someone whose goals suddenly seem to be YOUR goals... whose dreams seem to be YOUR dreams?
HAVE you ever been to bed with anyone else?
What does that matter? But you've... you've... FELT like this before...
It was different...
What was she like?
Oh... oh, I didn't know her very well...
But you LOVED her all the same...
We never went to bed together.
Why do you go on about that? What does it matter?
You've been to bed with somebody else, haven't you?
I've never LOVED anybody!
I've never been to bed with anybody!
The Cloak Invisible. It was my mother's parting gift.
"The fifth one this week"!
Oh, for goodness' sake!
And I thought you said it was something special...
That's just what I was trying to tell you. You ARE...
Five this week; how many the week before?
You're as bad as my father.
And the week before that?
We mustn't let him land!
Who?
Halfdan the Black.
But, Erik...
Just give me a hand.
I mean, you could have killed yourself.
Where's the Cloak Invisible?
Why?
No!
I'll bring it back.
Erik. You don't understand.
No. It's YOU who doesn't understand, Aud. Halfdan has come to kill and destroy. We brought him here. We must stop him.
But you don't realize....
Goodbye, Aud...
And thanks for the Cloak Invisible!
No! WAIT! ERIK! The Cloak! The Cloak Invisible! It only seems to work on my father!
No! No! We are in the spell of the Horn! Hatred will destroy us.
That's right!
No. Don't look... The abyss will suck away your strength.
I MUST look! Keitel! Hold this!
YOU still want to go to Asgaard?
Of course.
Do you believe I love you?
I... but I...
You don't have to love me. Just: do you believe I love YOU?
Yes  I believe you do.
Then let go!
The second note.
The second note to wake the Gods...
Erik! You've done what you came to do!
Not quite...
Blow the third note! The note to take us home!
There is something I must ask the Gods...
No living man has ever set foot in the Halls of Asgaard... The Gods will never let you return.
Then I shall come too.
No... no...
I don't want to live WITHOUT you.
But, Aud... I... I came to find someone...
Open up! I know you're in there!
Ah! It's my father!
Open up! I know you're in there!
Right! Where is he?
Who, Father?
Who? Who? Whoever you've got in here of course!
There IS no one.
Well... where is he?
There's nobody here, Father. Look for yourself.
Ah! So you admit there IS someone!
You're losing your temper!
It's all in your own mind, Father... It's YOU who imagine that I'm always up here with some man or other....
I don't know how you do it, Aud... I sometimes think you've got some of your mother's magic...
There is no magic, Father... My mother had no magic...
She did, I tell you! She could blind me as easily as the night the day.
It's your fantasy...
But one day I'll catch you... Like I caught her...
It's all right! It isn't happening!
But, Father, it IS!
It's sinking! HyBrasil is sinking!
Well, my dear, I think you'll find it's all a question of what you want to believe in.... I have slightly more experience of these matters than you...
Are you the proprietor?
And who might you be, sir?
Just one of the curious. I'd like to see it.
I don't think so. No sir, we're closed.
I'd pay handsomely for a private showing. Are you the proprietor?
Handsomely?... Who sent you?
Pardon me?
Never mind. I'm the owner.
So you'll bring him to me, tomorrow, 10:00 a.m.? Mr...?
Bytes. Mr. Bytes. He'll be there.
I'll send a cab. Here is my card.
WHERE IS MR. MERRICK?
I... I don't know what you mean, Sir.
Don't lie to me. I know all about it. You were SEEN. Where did you take him?
Take him? Now wait... I didn't take him anywhere. We were just having some fun. We didn't hurt him... just having a laugh, that's all.
HE'S GONE!
When I left him, he was in his bed, safe and sound.
YOU BASTARD! You tortured him. YOU TORTURED HIM, you bastard. WHERE is HE?
YOU'RE NOT LISTENING TO ME! I ain't done nothing wrong. People pay to see your monster, Mr. Treves. I just take the money.
YOU'RE THE MONSTER! YOU'RE THE FREAK! GET OUT! YOU'RE FINISHED!
Ah, Mothershead. How are you feeling today?
Fine.
Good. Excellent. Now then, Mrs. Mothershead, I want you to come into this room with me. Inside there is a man with a rather... unfortunate appearance.
I've heard.
Yes... Well, I want you to clear up a little mess, a breakfast tray was spilt. And bring up another breakfast. When you've done that, you and I shall give the man a bath. But, Mothershead, I'm counting on your many years of experience to get you through this, Above all, do not scream, do not cry out, or in any way show this man that you are frightened of him...
Sir, you don't have to worry about me. I'm not the sort to cry out. Shall we go in?
Yes... Yes, let's go in.
The workhouse.
Yes! The workhouse!
Good morning, Mr. Treves. It'll be his bathtime soon. Has he eaten?
Not quite yet, Mrs. Mothershead. There seems to be some difficulty this morning.
Won't come out, eh?
No, he's very upset about something.
Just being obstinate, sir. I'll handle it.
He's had his share of "smacks", Mothershead. I expect that's what drives him under the bed. We must use patience and understanding with this man.
Perhaps you've got the time for that, Mr. Treves, I certainly don't. I've got an entire hospital to look after, and you have your real patients. Don't waste your time with him sir, it's like talking to a wall. I don't mean to be harsh, but truthfully what can you do for him? I'll be back later for his bath. And Mr. Carr Gomm would like to see you when you have a moment. Good day sir.
Good Lord, Mr. Treves!
We've made tremendous strides today, Mothershead. He listens and repeats with great attention, and this certainly isn't easy for him.
Parrots can do as much, Mr. Treves. It's all very nice, but I don't see the point. You know they won't let him stay here.
I'm sure that if Mr. Merrick made a good impression on the hospital committee they'd see that he's the exception to their rule. Now I'm not expecting miracles. I'm not saying he'll be able to read or write, but I do think that I can get him to speak for himself. I'm going to arrange things with Carr Gomm right now. That was very good, John, very good. That's all for today. We shall do some more tomorrow. Mothershead?
Watery headed bunch.
I regret that I must leave you here, m' Lord, m' Lady. Thank you so much for coming. It was an act of the greatest charity.
Incredible, isn't it? Well, I think John has had enough visitors for one day, Mothershead. I've got a lecture at the college, I'll be back this evening.
Excuse me, sir. I'd like to have a word with you.
Oh?... Well, quickly please, Mothershead, I'm overdue.
I can't understand why you let those people go in there, sir.
Now Mothershead, you have to understand that this is very good for John. He relishes contact with people outside the hospital...
But you saw them, sir. They couldn't hide their disgust. They don't care anything for John, they're just trying to impress their friends.
Aren't you being just a little harsh, Mothershead? You yourself hardly treated John with much loving kindness when he first arrived.
I bathed him, didn't I? I fed him and cleaned up after him! If loving kindness can be called care and practical concern, then yes, I did treat him with loving kindness, and I'm not ashamed to say it.
You're right, Mothershead, please forgive me... Of course, I appreciate everything you've done for John, and I'm glad that you are concerned about his welfare. But, I'm the physician in charge and I must do what I think best. I'm also very late, so please forgive me.
Mr. Treves, some more books arrived for Mr. Merrick.
Thank you, Mothershead. Have a porter put them in my office.
Yes sir. What's that?
A dressing bag.
Very smart indeed.
Yes. John wants it.
A dressing bag?
You don't think it's too gaudy, do you.
Well...
John thinks it's very dashing. Something no gentleman should be without. I'm inclined to agree.
So you see, John, there's no need for a lighthouse. All your friends are here.
Welcome home, John.
Yyyy... Yyye... yyyess.
Yes John!
...Yyes
Yyyess.
Yyess.
That's much better. I could understand that "yes".
Yes!
Very good! Oh yes! Now listen. I'm going to say some things to you and I want you to repeat them... um... I want you to say them back to me. Do you understand? I'm going to say some things to you and I want you to say them back to me. Do you understand?
Yes.
Excellent! Now, say... "Hello"
Hello...
My name is...
My... name is...
John Merrick.
John... Merrick
Say "Merrick".
Merrick...
Say "Mmmerrick."
Mmmerrick.
Say "Mmmerrick."
Mmmerrick.
Well, that's alright. I understand you. Now, say the whole thing again, Hello ...
Hello... my name is... John Merrick.
Why, my dear Mrs. Mothershead, how good of you to join us. Mr. Merrick, will you please introduce yourself?
Hello, my name is John Merrick.
The Lord is my shepherd, I shall not want, he maketh me to lie down in green pastures; He leadeth me beside still waters. He restoreth my soul: He Guideth me in the paths of righteousness...
Righteousness...
Righteousness for his namesake.
Very good, very good. Now, when your visitor comes today I want you to say it exactly the way you said it just now. I will introduce him to you and you will say the words you've learned. If you have any trouble with any of the words, I'll help you. I'm sure you'll be just fine. If you do as well for him as you've done for me these last two days, then I'm sure our visitor will be very pleased. Now, let's go through the whole thing again, shall we? I will say "May I introduce you to Mr. Carr Gomm." And you will say...
Hello, my name is John Merrick. I am very pleased to meet you!
John, may I introduce you to Sir Carr Gomm.
Hello... my name is John Merrick. I am very pleased to meet you.
Mr. Merrick likes the food here. Don't you John?
Oh yes! It is much better than what I am used to.
...Yes potatoes... but...
But the variety of food here is very pleasing... I commend you.
Why did you let me go on like that, teaching you what you already knew? Why didn't you tell me you could read?
You did not ask me.
I never thought to ask. How can you ever forgive me?
Oh, no do not say that. You have been so kind to me. I was afraid to say too much. People always want me to be quiet. You wanted me to speak, but I was afraid. Forgive me.
We do have a lot to talk about, don't we?
Good evening. How are you feeling?
Good evening. Very well, thank you. And you?
Very well, thank you. I have something for you, John. I'm sure you'll enjoy it, it's very popular.
This... is my new home?
Yes.
The hospital?
Of course! What did you think?
How long will I stay here?
I promise you. You will never see the inside of that horrible place again. You will never, ever go back to the workhouse... or that man. It's a splendid room, don't you think?
You look splendid, John.
Thank you very much.
When one is invited to tea, one must look one's best.
John... what's the matter? John... why are you upset?
I'm not used to such kindness. From a beautiful woman.
Well, it's a lovely bedroom. What do you call that thing above the bed?
That's a canopy, John.
Ohhh...
How is your tea, John?
It's very good. I'm enjoying my visit with you very much. It's so very kind of you to have me as a guest in your home. I'm sorry I made a spectacle of myself.
Not at all, John.
I love the way you've arranged your pictures on the mantlepiece. Is that the way it's done in most houses?
Oh yes.
Who are they of?
Oh, our relatives... the children.
The children! May I see?
Of course.
The Children. Where are your children
Oh, they're gone for the day... with friends.
Friends. Ah yes, friends! How nice.
Would you... would you like to see my mother?
Your mother?
Here.
Good morning, John.
Good morning.
John, there's someone here who would like to meet you. Would that be alright?
When will the stream be aweary of flowing under my eye? When will the wind be aweary of blowing over the sky? When will the clouds be aweary of fleeting? When will the heart be aweary of beating, and nature die?
Never, oh! Never, nothing will die. the stream flows the wind blows the heart beats Nothing will die.
Mr. Treves, there is something I've been meaning to ask you for some time...
Yes, John?
...Can you cure me?
No John, I can't. I can care for you, but I can't cure you.
I thought as much.
The cathedral is coming along nicely.
Yes, soon I will start the main spire, but I must finish these columns first, How kind of her!
How blind of me. Is there anything else, John, anything at all that I could get for you?
Oh no! There is nothing! I have everything, you have given me everything I could possibly want. I am happy every hour of the day. I only wish there was something I could give to you.
Please John, it would give me so much pleasure to give you something. Something just for yourself. Isn't there something you would like to have?
You want a dressing bag, John?
You don't think it's too gaudy, do you?
...my... home?
Yes, John.
You did this for me?
Yes.
Please... please thank the governing committee for me. I will do my utmost to merit their kindness.
My home.
There is one more thing, John. Here.
Is it the one you wanted?
Oh, Mr. Treves. Mr. Treves.
Are you sure? Because I can take it back.
Mr. Treves. Thank you my... friends.
Mr. Treves! Treves.
John.... how can you ever forgive me?
Stand up, John. Let them see you.
Oh no, I couldn't.
It's for you, John. It's all for you. Go ahead, let them see you.
Will the cathedral be finished soon, John?
Yes, very soon.
Splendid. it's truly a masterpiece. Well, I suppose I'll be on my way now. I hoped your enjoyed yourself this evening.
Oh yes! It was wonderful!
I'm glad, John. Goodnight.
Yes John?
Mr. Treves, tell me... tell me truly. Is it alright, did I make any mistakes that you can see?
No, John, not one that I can see.
Then I shouldn't change anything?
No, no, I wouldn't change a thing.
Goodnight John. Sleep well.
You too, my friend. Goodnight.
Feeling better now, Mr. Merrick?
Yes.
Thank you very much.
Well, if there is nothing more, I suppose we'll be leaving you now.
No, nothing.
Good morning, Mr. Merrick.
Good morning.
What? Oh! I see! It's St. Phillips. Oh, of course. Why... why that's very good, I mean you've gotten the windows and arches just right.
Yes.
But it's so good, I mean... it's so very good.
Thank you... very much.
Where did you get this box?
The hallway? Oh, the wastecan!
I meant no harm, it was the only place where I could find cardboard. I thought it has been thrown away.
It's alright, it was thrown away. No one wants it. It's just that it's a little dirty, that's all.
What's this?
The main spire.
The... oh, the spire! How silly of me, it's as plain as day... Mr. Merrick, where did you learn to do this?
...I learned a long time ago.
I'll have to find some more.
Yes... well, good day, Mr. Merrick.
You alright?
yyyes
Want to come out?
You're English.
Of course! You want out?
Yes.
Won't be a moment.
I'm sorry I could only get you a third class ticket, but it's all we had.
Oh no, my friend...
Say hello to London for me. I miss her.
Oh, yes.
You know, I saw you once there, in London. You're a great attraction.
John, I'd like you to meet one of the brightest lights of the British stage, Mrs. Kendal. Mrs. Kendal, John Merrick.
Good day, Mr. Merrick.
It's all arranged. I'll send over some evening gowns for the sisters that you select to accompany Mr. Merrick. You'll be using the Royal entrance and Princess Alexandra herself will be there to welcome him to her private box.
I'm very grateful to you, Mrs. Kendal. This is just the thing to help him forget his ordeal. John will be very excited.
Well it is a miracle he ever got back. And, I'm sure, Mr. Treves, under your expert care, he'll have many happy years ahead.
I fear not, Mrs. Kendal. Even in the short time he was gone the size of his head has increased rapidly... as is his pain.
How awful for John.
And yet, not once have any of us heard him complain.
Is he... dying then?
Yes. There is nothing more frustrating, nothing that makes a physician feel more useless, than standing by watching his patient deteriorate. And when that patient is a friend, no... no, there's absolutely nothing I can do.
Well, it's all quite... I've never heard... It's quite...
Yes.
Good day...!
I've brought you some things. I hope you'll like, Mr. Merrick. I hope you don't think it too forward.
Oh, no.
I knew you'd understand. Here.
I want you to know that I don't go about giving my pictures to just anyone.
Oh, no. I would never think it! It's so beautiful. You are so... I'll give it a place of honor, here, next to my mother.
She's very pretty, your mother.
Yes.
Mr. Treves says that you are in the theatre. Do you live there?
Oh no, Mr. Merrick. I just work there.
Well, even to work there would be wonderful. Is it beautiful?
You've never been?
Alas, no.
Well you must go. It is one of the most beautiful places on earth. Of course, I'm rather partial.
Tell me about it, please!
It's very difficult to put into a nutshell, but I should say the theater is the shrine of the imagination, where one may suspend disbelief and travel anywhere in the world, to any time you desire. You may look over the shoulders of kings, unobserved, battle with ruthless tyrants, and marry the beautiful princess, all in the space of a few hours. Onstage you may be whoever you wish to be, do anything you please, and always, always live happily ever after. The theatre is all the brightest and best things of the world, Mr. Merrick. It is lights and music, gaiety and joy. It's... well, it's romance.
Romance!
That's one thing the theatre has in great store. which reminds me. I have something else for you...
Have you read it?
No, but I certainly shall.
Have not saints lips, and holy palmers too?
Ay, pilgrim, lips that they must use in prayer.
O, then, dear saint, let lips do what hands do. They pray, grant thou, lest faith turn to despair.
Why, Mr. Merrick, you're not an Elephant Man at all...
Oh no?
Oh no... no... you're a Romeo.
Fair Katharine, and most fair, will you vouchsafe to teach a soldier terms Such as will enter at a lady's ear And plead his lovesuit to her gentle heart?
Your majesty shall mock at me; I cannot speak your England.
O fair Katharine, if you will love me soundly with your French heart, I will be glad to hear you confess it brokenly with your English tongue. Do you like me, Kate?
Pardonnezmoi, I cannot tell vat is "like me".
An angel is like you, Kate, and you are like an angel.
O bon Dieu! les langues des hommes sont pleines de tramperies.
What say you, fair one? That the tongues of men are full of deceits?
Oui, dat de tongues of de mans is be full of deceits.
I know no way to mince it in love, but directly to say "I love you". What! A speaker is but a prater; a rhyme is but a ballad. A good leg will fall; a straight back will stoop; a black beard will turn white; a curl'd pate will grow bald; a fair face will wither; a full eye will wax hollow; but a good heart, Kate, is the sun and the moon, or rather the sun and not the moon; for it shines bright and never changes, but keeps his course truly.
How long has this man been here?
Three quarters of an hour.
Mmmm. Hodges, Pierce come closer. Mr. Hill, take hold of the rope please. It's a machine accident. I expect you'll be seeing a good deal of this.
Abominable things these machines. One can't reason with them.
What a mess.
I say Freddie, what are you about?
Oh nothing... nothing of any great importance.
Good Lord, Freddie! What have you got in there?
You'll know presently. At the meeting of the society. But until then, I beg of you Fox, keep it to yourself.
Certainly, if you insist. You must have quite a find there.
I don't know what I've got.
Nothing of any importance, eh?
You never mentioned his mental state.
He's imbecile, no doubt from birth. He speaks, but... it's all gibberish. No, the man's a homeless idiot... I pray God he's an idiot.
How are you feeling today?
I feel much better. Thank you for asking. And you?
I'm feeling very fit, thank you. How is your bronchitis?
I feel much better. Thank you.
Are you comfortable here?
Everyone has been very kind. I am extremely grateful.
...I... everyone has been very kind to me.
Of course. How long did you and Mr. Treves prepare for this interview?
...everyone has been very kind.
Yes, of course... Well, it's been a pleasure meeting you, Mr. Merrick. Good day.
What is it, Treves?
Thou preparest a table before me in the presence of mine enemies, Thou anointest my head with oil...
It was a great pleasure to meet you, Mr. Merrick.
I am very pleased to meet you.
I hope we can talk together again sometime. Good day.
Good morning, Treves.
Good morning, sir.
You've acquired a taste for this?
It's quite nutritious, sir.
Don't be mad. This muck can kill you.
Don't be frightened. He won't hurt you.
Indeed!
A hospital is no place for secrecy, Mr. Treves. Doctors spiriting hooded figures about are liable to cause comment. Why wasn't this patient properly admitted, and why is he in isolation? Is he contagious?
No sir, he's got bronchitis and he's been badly beaten.
Why isn't he in the General Ward, then?
Well sir, he's quite seriously deformed, and I fear the other patients would find him... rather shocking.
Deformed? Is that it. Then am I to assume that he is ultimately incurable?
Yes sir.
What are your plans then, Treves... You are aware that the London does not accept incurables. The rules are quite clear on that point.
Yes, I'm well aware of that. But this case is quite exceptional.
Oh, is he a friend of yours?
No, more of an acquaintance.
I certainly sympathize with your problem, Treves... Why don't you try the British Home, or the Royal Hospital for perhaps they would have a place for him.
Yes sir, I'll look into that. Would you like to meet him sir?
Have you contacted the British Home and the Royal Hospital?
Ah, no sir. I had planned to see them in the morning.
Good! How is the patient?
He's doing very well. In fact that's why I came to see you. I think that if I were to present Mr. Merrick to the hospital committee, then they would have a chance to see for themselves not only the extraordinary nature of the disease, but of the man as well. If the committee had a chance to speak with him, hear him say a few words for himself, I'm sure they would see him as a patient, rather than as a violation of the rules.
A few words? I thought he was imbecile?
Well sir, perhaps I should explain...
I really don't think that's necessary Treves. I'm quite sure the committee will be able to make an equitable decision on the merits of the case, such as they are.
I don't agree. No one can make a reasonable decision about this man's future without at least meeting him. No doctor would presume to diagnose a patient he had never met.
No, Treves, it's out of the question. Now if it was up to me, I'd say "Certainly, let's meet the fellow, by all means," I'm sorry, I simply can't speak for the other members of the committee.
Then will you meet him, as a representative of the committee.
Mr. Treves, it's out of the question. I want to hear as soon as possible what the other hospitals can do. I'm sorry.
Singularly unpleasant chap... uh... I don't suppose there would be any harm in my meeting your... patient, Mr. Treves.
Thank you very much Sir. Shall we say in a few days then?
Shall we say two o'clock tomorrow afternoon?
Wh... whatever is most convenient for you, sir.
Two o'clock then... you know Treves... It seems this acquaintance of yours has become rather more than just an acquaintance.
...Yes, Sir.
It's only a physical problem. He has trouble with certain sounds because of the constrictive deformity of the mouth. But he can talk, and has a great eagerness to make contact with people who will let him. So if you have any difficulty understanding what he is saying, just tell me and I'll make it clear.
Speaking is one thing, Treves, but can the man comprehend?
...As I said, it's only a physical problem... but I do feel that Mr. Merrick is very flattered that you're taking the time and trouble to meet him, and he's most anxious to make a good impression, so he might seem rather nervous.
He needn't. I have no desire to cause him any discomfort. Did you make those inquiries we spoke about?
Yes, I spoke to both the British Home and Royal Hospital for Incurables. I'm afraid that they weren't very encouraging, but they said they'd bring it up at their next committee meeting, so we should have their answers shortly.
Fine, fine. You know, your dedication to this patient is an inspiring thing, Treves. But you must remember that this is a hospital, and there are many patients here. Patients who can be made well, and you owe them your first consideration. Just don't become so obsessed, old man, that you begin to neglect them.
Oh yes?
And what was that, John?
It was a nice try, Treves, but the man is so obviously mouthing your words.
Yes, I'm very sorry to have wasted your time, sir. I just felt that I had to do anything I could to protect him.
I'm sorry too. He simply doesn't belong here. He's be much happier somewhere else, where he could be constantly looked after. Believe me, Frederick, it's better that it worked out this way. Good day.
How did you, know the rest? I never taught you the rest of it.
I don't understand.
Tell me, John, how did you know the rest of the 23rd Psalm?
Treves. Well done.
Not me, sir. Mr. Merrick. He succeeded in spite of my shortsightedness.
Can you imagine what his life has been like?
Yes, I think I can.
No you can't. You can't begin to know, no one can.
You are quite right, Treves, this is an exceptional case. And I quite agree that the committee should see Mr. Merrick.
I could easily arrange...
No, not that way. Broadneck and the others don't like to deal with patients directly. It makes them queasy... Do you have any photographs of Mr. Merrick?
Well, yes.
Excellent. We shall present them, along with the other particulars of the case to the committee. I want them to see, exactly, how horribly his body has been affected. You and I shall vouch for his inner qualities.
Do you think they'll go along with us?
Of course they will. They're reasonable men.
Don't we?
No, we don't. Their committees have informed me that they're unwilling to take Mr. Merrick, even if they were supplied with funds. They don't want him.
Well, it's up to us then, isn't it?
Has the response picked up?
Frankly, Treves, it's not what I'd expected. A few small cheques. Well wishers. Don't worry, these things undoubtedly take time.
But he's so afraid he's going to be carted off. I've promised him that won't happen.
Well... I'll let you know if there's something in the afternoon post.
Please do.
Don't you think this is a bit premature? We don't have the backing yet to...
Steady on, Treves. Have a seat.
What did you do to him? He's been like this all night!
What do you mean?
He was fine when he left here, and now look at him.
I intend to.
What happened?
He fell. He falls.
He must have taken quite a fall.
He's a clumsy git. Never watches where he is going.
Why is he sitting up like this? He needs rest.
That's the way he sleeps. If he lays down, he'll die. Head's too heavy.
This man belongs in hospital.
Can't you fix him up here? ...He's my livelihood. Listen.
You listen, you're not going to have much of a livelihood if this man dies. He's got the rale, he's very weak, and I don't know how much damage has been done by his "fall". Now stop wasting time and fetch a cab.
I like doing business with you. You and I understand each other, completely. I know I can trust you. Can't I?
Everything will be seen to.
I want my man back.
Just a moment, how did you get in here?
Never mind that, I want my man!
He's still very sick. Please come downstairs with me. I'll explain the situation.
DON'T... Don't muck me about. You've had plenty of time to fix him up, and he's leaving with me, NOW. Do you understand me? Now, Mr. Treves. We had a bargain!
You misunderstood. This man suffered a severe fall, if you take my meaning. He's my patient now and I must do what...
Pull the other one, why don't you! We made a deal!
I know what you've done to him and he's never going back to that.
He's a freak! That's how they live. We're partners, him and I, business partners. You're willfully deprivin' me of my livlihood!
All you do is profit from another man's misery!
You think you're better 'n me? YOU wanted the freak to show all your doctor chums and make a name for yourself, you guv. So I gave him to you. On trust, in the name of science! And now I want him back.
You don't own this man!
I want him back!
So you can beat him? So you can starve him? A dog in the street would fare better with you!
I've got my rights, damn you, and I'm going to the authorities!
Now I think we really do understand one another.
Right... Right.
You sly bastard. You're doing this to spite me, aren't you!
Aw, Bytes, he's sick.
He's doing it to spite me, I tell you, and it's got to stop!
He's sick, Bytes. He's going to die.
If he does it's his own fault! But I'm not burying that swollen bag of flesh.
What are you going to do?
I'll show you! I'll show you!
Don't!
Shut up!
Excuse me, Mr. Treves, sir.
Yes?
I found it.
Did you see it?
Our man is sick. Come right away.
What is it?
Like this.
I'll get my bag.
You won't be long?
I'll join you shortly.
Did it go well, darling?
Yes, very well, I think. Are the girls in bed?
Yes, and they send their kisses. Would you like your sherry now?
No, I think a whiskey.
Freddie?... Freddie, don't look so discouraged.
I shouldn't be. We made great progress today. I taught him to repeat a few basic phrases. He did rather well, too, but I had to lead him every step of the way. Though frankly, at times I was unsure of who was leading whom.
What do you mean?
Well, I wasn't sure whether he was parroting me because that's all he was capable of, or whether he sensed that that's all I wanted to hear, and he was trying to please me.
But I thought you said that he was rather... simple?
He is. I mean, I've always thought he was. I think he must be. Is he simple? Or is that just something I've wished upon him to make things simpler for myself?
Frederick, why are you so interested in this particular case?
I don't know. I can't explain it. If this is an intelligent man, trapped in the body of a monster, then I'm under a moral obligation to help free that mind, free that spirit as best I can, to help him live as full and content a life as possible. But! If he's an imbecile, who's body I can't treat and who's mind I can't touch, well, then my obligation is discharged. They can put him where they will; he won't be bothered, I won't be bothered, and everyone's conscience can remain free and untroubled. And that is my dilemma... what is in his mind?
Perhaps you're just polishing a stone, endowing this Elephant Man with qualities he doesn't possess?
And what qualities are those? Intelligence or stupidity?
I'm sure I don't know, Freddie.
I'm sorry... I don't know either. I just don't know.
Well, these things take time.
I've only got until two o'clock tomorrow afternoon, when Carr Gomm meets him. Somehow, between now and then I've got to make John Merrick at least seem like an intelligent man... Why am I fooling myself? Nothing short of John delivering the Sermon on the Mount is going to sway Carr Gomm...
John loves the house.
Do you?
Yes.
And here are my mother and father.
You stay with me.
Dinner will be served, shortly, dear.
More romances for John?
Hmmm?
...Freddie! What's the matter? You've been like this all evening.
Oh... I've just been thinking about something that man Bytes said.
Oh, Freddie. What could that wretched vampire say to upset you?
That I am very little different from him.
Oh that's absurd, Frederick. No, no Frederick, that's all wrong! John is happier and more fulfilled now than he has ever been in his entire life. And, that is completely due to you.
But why did I do it? What was this all for? So John Merrick could live out his last days in peace and comfort? Or so I could become famous?
Frederick, just what is it that you are saying?
...Am I a good man or am I a bad man?
Oh Frederick.
Mr. Merrick, sugar?
Yes please, two.
One or two?
Two, please.
Oh yes. You have so many nice things, and so much room.
Oh?
And here is one of Frederick's mother.
How lovely.
They have noble faces.
I've always thought that myself.
Oh, yes.
Oh... why Mr. Merrick she's beautiful.
She has the face of an angel... She was an angel. She was so kind... so kind to me. It's not her fault, for in the fourth month of her maternal condition she was knocked down by an elephant. I'm sure I must have been a great disappointment to her.
Oh no, Mr. Merrick. No. No son as loving as you are could ever be a disappointment.
If only I could find her. If only she could see me now, here, with such lovely kind friends. You, Mrs. Treves, and you, Mr. Treves. Then maybe she would love me as I am. I've tried to hard to be good.
So that's the one you want to marry.
With Mrs. Teasdale as my wife and Freedonia under my control 
Maybe it's not going to be so easy. From what I've heard, Mrs. Teasdale is rather sweet on this Rufus T. Firefly.
That's where you come in. I'll leave him in your hands, and don't forget you're supposed to be my niece.
Uncle, you can't do this!
My dear niece  I must ask you not to interfere. War is not a woman's problem.
It is every woman's problem. Who supplies the sons?  the brothers?  the husbands? Who...
This is all Firefly's fault  that idiot, that fool...
I thought everything was working out fine.
Fine nothing! I didn't want war... My plan was to marry Mrs. Teasdale and overthrow Firefly.
Maybe you can still win the old dame over  why not try to 
If only we can get his Excellency to listen to reason...
Perhaps he will listen to you...
Your uncle has been such a friend to us in every crisis. Without his country's financial aid 
What is money? Mrs. Teasdale, for you  I would do anything.
Ambassador! I am so anxious for you to meet our new dictator.
Mrs. Teasdale  no matter who rules Freedonia, to me you will always be the first lady of the land.
...but would further cement the relations of our countries.
Ambassador Trentino, I am indeed honored... But you see  well  I 
Oh. Then there his somebody else?
Well no  not exactly  but 
Gloria  I've waited for years. I won't be put off! I love you! I want you! Can't you see that I'm at your feet?
Gentlemen! Gentlemen!
I didn't come here to be insulted.
I shall report this indignity the my President. Mrs. Teasdale, I feel this regrettable occurrence will plunge our countries into war.
This is terrible!
Mrs. Teasdale, I'm willing to pocket my pride and do anything I can to make up with his Excellency.
Oh, would you...?
For you, I would do anything...
What'll I do with this card?
You can keep it  I've got a whole pack... Now what were you saying?
In choosing you, I feel that I serve my country well. I heartily endorse everything you stand for.
Well, I won't stand for much. And I won't stand for you if you don't show some improvement soon. Look at your report card last month  "D" in spelling... six in behavior. Now who were the six? A fine state of affairs  no wonder you can't matriculate, now what were you saying?
The future of Freedonia rests upon you. Promise me you will follow in my husband's footsteps.
I haven't been on the job five minutes and already she's making advances to me. Not that I care  but where is your husband?
Why  er  my husband passed away... I was with him to the very end.
No wonder he passed away. I'd like to be with you to the very end. Can't you see what I'm trying to tell you  I love you.
Your Excellency!
You're not so bad yourself, Mrs. Teasdale, when I look at you I can see that we're facing a crisis. We've got to balance the budget  we've got to cut down everything including, you.
Your Excellency, the eyes of the world are upon you. Notables from every land are gathered here in your honor  This is a gala day for us.
Well, a gal a day is enough for me. I couldn't handle any more.
If it's not asking too much  For our information just for illustration Tell us how you intend to run the nation.
These are the laws of my administration: No one's allowed to smoke or tell a dirty joke  And whistling is forbidden...
You've made a wonderful impression. Your views are liberal... It is easy to see you have an open mind.
That's what I get for dressing in a hurry.
Your Excellency, you mustn't forget your appointment at the House of Representatives... Have you got your speech ready?
I wrote a speech last night that'll knock them off their seats... Four score and seven years ago, our fathers brought forth on this continent a new nation 
Why, that's the speech that Lincoln made at Gettysburg...
He did?... I told my son not to leave it laying around... Where is son?
Oh, Rufus!
All I can offer you is a Rufus over your head.
Oh, Your Excellency, I don't know what to say.
I wouldn't know what to say either if I was in your place. Maybe you can suggest something.
So  you've come to ask for clemency! I'll give the enemy no quarter  not a dime...
But Your Excellency  the Ambassador is here on a friendly visit... He came to ask you to patch up the breach.
Let him patch up his own breeches...
Oh, won't you reconsider...
Well, maybe I am a little headstrong... But, you know, it's awfully hard to forget what he called me.
Guard them with your life... don't leave them out of your sight... If the enemy gets those papers we're lost. If they don't get them, we're lost. Can't you see what I'm trying to tell you? I love you... Mrs. Teasdale, you're the salt of the earth. They don't come any better than you...
Now  er 
Well  they might come better but they don't come any bigger... and the bigger the better. The bigger the betta you've got on a horse, the more you lose, and speaking about horses, why don't you marry me. Come, come  say yes and you'll never see me again. I'll go 'way if it means your happiness...
Oh, your Excellency, you take me off my feet.
Gloria  may I call you Gloria?
Why  why  of course.
You can call me Gloria too. Gloria  what a beautiful name. When I was born my mother named me Gloria  two minutes later she found out her mistake...
I hope I'm not interrupting.
Take a seat  you're next.
Your Excellency, something terrible has just happened.
That's all right. I'll fix you right up.
My purse has been stolen  the plans of war are in it.
WHAT ?
I  I may be wrong, but I suspect the Secretary of War.
Don't bother me  I'm thinking  What was that?
I said  I suspect the Secretary of War.
THIS IS TREASON!! What a fool I was to listen to your siren song and fall a helpless victim under the insidious spell of your irresistible charms 
But 
You satisfied your selfish whims, while nations tottered, dynasties rocked and the world plunged headlong into a chasm of chaos and oblivion  Not bad, eh?
You know I think they think I should be king. Although it would please me to govern the throng, suppose I were king and then everything went wrong.
The king can do no wrong!
That's even a greater honor.
I bring you the greetings of my President and the good will of my people.
I'll keep the greetings  but you can send back the good will... what we need right now is twenty million dollars.
Twenty million dollars is a considerable sum... I'll have to discuss that with my Minister of Finance.
Well, in the meantime, could you let me have $50 personally?
$50?
I'll tell you what I'll do. I'll give you Mrs. Teasdale as security. or my jackknife. If you want my advice, you'll take the jackknife... I've a better proposition... Make it $25 and I'll give you a first mortgage on my son and I hope you foreclose.
Your Excellency, haven't we met before?
Why yes. I met you at the dog races  say, you could have won that race if you tried a little harder.
Excellency, may I present my niece.
Go ahead.
You don't understand. This is my niece Vera.
And Vera niece, too.
When you get through with her feet, you can start on mine. I haven't been to a chiropodist in two years... If that's not an insult, I don't know what is. Gloria, I love you. I 
Can't we go some place where we can be alone?
What can this mug offer you? Wealth and family. I can't give you wealth... ...but we can have a little family of our own.
This has gone far enough! This interruption is humiliating, to say the least...
Well, why not say the least and get it over with?
That's what you think.
You swine!
Give me that again!
You worm!
Once more!
You upstart!
That's it! No man lives who can call a Firefly an upstart.
Then it's war?
Yes.
How're ya fixed for ammunition?
Bah!!
THEN IT'S WAR!
I'm sorry we lost our tempers... I'm willing to forget if you are.
Forget? You ask me to forget... Why, my ancestors would rise from their graves... and I'd only have to bury them again... A Firefly never forgets...
I am willing to apologize... I'm willing to do anything to prevent this war.
Nothing doing!! I've taken a lease on the battlefield. I'd lose my deposit, besides, I've already ordered the ammunition...
What I called you... Why, what did I call you?
I don't remember.
Oh  you mean... worm?
No, that wasn't it...
Was it  swine?
No... it was a seven letter word.
Oh yes!  UPSTART!
That's it...
Why  er  Mrs. Teasdale  this is an outrage! This man is impossible... My course is clear... this means war... You RUNT!
I still like UPSTART the best.
Your Excellency, please don't think me silly, but I'd love to have a picture of you. I want to hang it in my bedroom.
You couldn't hang me in your bedroom  I'll make a note of it. Where's my secretary?
You keep that up and you'll crab the whole war.
Carry out this tragic folly if you will  But I for one will not be a part of it. I will stay here in Freedonia.
Oh, Your Excellency, isn't there something I can do?
Yes, but I'll talk to you about that when we're alone...
I shall dance for you tonight as I've never danced before.
This is a fine thing to be doing at my age.
Are you getting tired?
Not at all. When I was a boy back on the farm I used to pump my own water.
Are you sure you're not tired?
Tired! I'd like to stretch this into a week 
We're not allowed to tell a dirty joke HAIL, HAIL, FREEDONIA
If chewing gum is chewed, The chewer is pursued And in the hoosegow hidden...
If we should choose to chew, we'll be pursued 
If any form of pleasure is exhibited Report to me and it will be prohibited. I'll put my foot down; So shall it be  This is the land of the free. The last man nearly ruined this place He didn't know what to do with it. If you think this country's bad off now Just wait 'till I get through with it. The treasury is low on dough; The last man went and flew with it. If you think we're short of money now Just wait 'till I get through with it. The country's taxes must be fixed  And I know what to do with it, If you think you're paying too much now, Just wait 'till I get through with it.
I will not stand for anything that's crooked or unfair; I'm strictly on the up and up, So everyone beware. If anyone's caught taking graft And I don't get my share, we'll stand 'em up against the wall  and pop goes the weasel!
So everyone beware Who's crooked or unfair; No one must take a bit of graft Unless he gets his share.
If any man should come between A husband and his bride, We find out which one she prefers By letting her decide. If she prefers the other man, The husband steps outside; We stand him up against the wall And Pop goes the Weasel!
The husband steps outside; Relinquishes his bride; We stand him up against the wall And take him for a ride.
The population must increase With great rapidity. We give a couple seven years To raise a family. If, by that time, there is no branch Upon the family tree, we stand 'em up against the wall  and Pop goes the Weasel.
How'm I doing, boss?
Fine  keep on yelling  Do everything you can to disturb Firefly  Now what about your cousin?
He's working very hard  I got him a job driving Firefly's car  He'sa driving him crazy and I'm driving him nuts  PEANUTS
Chicolini, you've come just in time. We need a man who's fearless, brave. A man who's willing to die, if necessary.
All right  I'll go out and find one.
Firefly must be captured at any cost.
That's easy, I'll get him for you wholesale.
It must be done right away.
I can't do it right away.
Hey you!!
All right 
Have you got a license?
No, but my dog he's a got millions of them 
What kind of a dog is he?
He used to be a bloodhound but he's anemic 
Well  what is he now?
He's half poodle and half watch dog 
Half watch dog?
Yeh, he's only got one eye.
I don't know much about dogs but you ought to be on the end of a leash  a ninetynine year leash  Look  what do you call your dog?
I don't call him, I whistle.
What do you whistle?
Yankee Poodle.
I've got just the place for a man like you but I'm too busy right now to do any digging. What do you call your dog when you want him?
I don't want him.
Well, if you don't want your dog why don't you put him in a pound?
He only weighs ten ounces 
I can use you in the House of Representatives. We need a man who understands dogs  and that's where this country is going to. Step inside.
That was for you.
I'm sorry I'm not in. I wanted to have a long talk with you... Now look here, my good man, you've got to stop yelling "peanuts" in front of the House of Representatives.
Oh no, I can't do it.
You don't want to be a public nuisance, do you?
Sure. How much does the job pay? Sure, if there's a chance for advancement.
You wouldn't consider going over Niagara Falls without a barrel?
'At'sa no good. I went to Niagara Falls once.
Did you shoot the rapids?
No, but I shot some ducks.
If there was an open season for fellows like you, I'd get myself a hunting license. Anyway, I'm going to make you a sporting proposition. You give up the peanut stand and I'll make you vicepresident of the country.
Oh, no  nothing doing. I had a brother who was a vicepresident once and that's the last we ever heard of him.
Well, maybe he's still the vice president. Now if I were to offer you 
Hello... Yes... No, not yet... All right... Goodbye. That was for you again. He wants you to call him up as soon as you get back.
I don't know what's keeping me. I should've been here a long time ago. Now how about my proposition?
What other job you got?
Let's see  What've I got in my cabinet besides mice  I've got it  how would you like to be Secretary of the Interior?
That's no good. I like to work on the outside. I must have something easy.
Then you don't wanna work hard?
I don't wanna work at all.
In that case you'll have to take a civil service examination  if you pass I'll put you in the postoffice  stick out your tongue.
I don't wanna stick out my tongue.
Well, if you wanna work in the post office you'll have to stick out your tongue.
Look, I'm a very nervous man. I gotta have a job where I come to work at eleven  go to lunch at twelve  and quit at one. And twice a year I gotta have a six month vacation.
I've got just the job for you  Secretary of War.
'At'sa fine.
You know, I'd be lost without a telephone. Now  where were we? Oh, yes  I just made you Secretary of War. The first thing you do is buy ammunition  you buy it from me and I get 10% commission.
What do I get?
You get half mine and I get half yours.
I don't want to buy ammunition  we no gotta war.
Then we've gotta start one. Do you know how to start a war?
Sure, that's easy. You gotta insult somebody.
My card.
That's ano good. You gotta insult somebody from another country. Look  I come from one country. You come from another country. I say something you don't like. You say something I don't like  and I'm insulted.
Why wasn't I insulted?
You was insulted, but you don't know it.
Then I demand an apology!
That's ano good. If I apologize we no got a war. Look  I send you a scrap of paper. You send me a scrap of paper  and we have a scrap.
You've got a brain after all  and how you get along without it is amazing to me  Now, who can I insult?... Who do we owe money to?... AMBASSADOR TRENTINO! How about him?
He'sa very easy to insult  I say something to his niece once, and he slapped my face.
Why didn't his niece slap your face?
She did.
What did you say to her?
You're lucky I don't slap your face  you oughtta be ashamed of yourself. Where did you hear that story?
You told it to me.
Oh, yes, I remember  and I should have slapped Mrs. Teasdale's face when she told it to me... I'm going right out and find Trentino. You go right out and get yourself an army.
Wait a minute. What kind of an army do you think we oughtta have?
I think we oughtta have a standing army, so we can save money on chairs.
Send in the next girl.
By the way, are you sure we need a spy?
Sure, we gotta have a spy. If we no got a spy who's gonna tell the other side what we're doing?
I'm glad I didn't ask you for "Washington Crossing the Delaware".
We've gotta have somebody who knows how to get secrets from men. You know how to make love?
He's going to make a good spy... that's not bad for the first day.
That's not bad for any day.
You're right about that guy  I think we've got something.
I don't know about us, but I know he'sa got something...
You no gotta no gun.
Who said I had a gun... Gimme those plans, you paper snatchers 
Late again, eh? You haven't been on time once since this war started... Get out there and fight...
I can't do it...
Why not? You're the Secretary of War, aren't you?
Yes, but I'm not working for you any more. I'm on the other side.
Is that so? I used to think you were twofaced  but you can't be  or you wouldn't be wearing that one. Now  let's talk this thing over.
Now  how many men you got in your army?
Well, we gotta one hundred thousand men.
That's not fair  we've only got fifty thousand.
That's all right. We let you have twentyfive thousand men  and we both start even.
That's the spirit  fiftyfifty.
No. Seventyfive  seventyfive.
Well, we'll let that one go. Now  how many battalions you got?
We gotta two battalions and one Frenchman.
I wish you were still working for me, so I could ask you to resign. How're ya fixed for cavalry?
I've gotta five thousand men but no horses.
That's funny, we've got five thousand horses but no men.
That's all right  our men can ride your horses.
Not a bad idea. If our horses get tired they can ride your men for a change. Now, I don't mind letting you have our horses, but you must promise to put them through their maneuvers.
Oh, sure. We have horse maneuvers every morning.
With a gun like that you can kill some of your own men.
That'sa pretty good. I'll take a dozen of them.
Anything else?
Yes, one gross of bullets, two dozen handgrenades, three kegs of powder  and throw in some matches.
Fine. We'll throw in the matches before we make the delivery. By the way, how're you fixed for spys?
Fine. We gotta him.
So!  He's on your side, too.
Sure.
Well, with you two fellows on the other side, this country should have no trouble keeping the wolf from the door.
I wonder what's keeping His Excellency?
Never mind His Excellency  you gotta your pocketbook?
Yes  why?
I wanna powder my nose...
In her dressing room? Why, what could he be doing there?
He could be playing solitaire, but I don't think so.
What's the matter with you?
What's the matter with you?
You haven't been still a moment since you've been here. You act as if you had neurosis 
I no gotta newrosis. My uncle he's a got a flower shop  he'sa gotta newrosis.
Here I am, Father.
Take a letter.
Who to?
The President of the United States.
My dear President... read it back...
"My dear President"...
That doesn't sound right... take out "President"... now read it.
"My dear"...
That's not right yet... put back "President" and take out "dear"... How does it read now?
"My President"...
There's still something wrong with it... take out "President" ...now what've you got?
"My"...
Now we're on the right track... Put back "dear"... How does it read?
"My dear"...
You can't say that to the President... Put back "President"... Now let's hear how sounds.
"My dear President"...
That's what I wanted in the first place. Tear it up and send it airmail.
Is that all?
Take another letter... to my tailor.
Dear Sir... enclosed find check for $100. Yours very truly... Send that immediately.
I'll have to enclose the check first.
You do and I'll fire you.
Here I am, Father...
Send for my car...
His Excellency's car!
Go out and chase that peanut vendor away from the building  Get rid of him if you have to use violence  if necessary call out the militia and if he isn't looking get me a bag of peanuts.
I've tried to chase him but it's no use  he won't go 
He won't eh?  We'll see about that  send for your father immediately.
But you're my father 
Never mind then, I'll get in touch with him myself 
In case of fire, how long will it take to empty this place?
About  thirtyfour seconds.
We'll start a fire   and get rid of these microbes.
Father...
Take a letter...
Who to?
None of your business... Take another letter.
Eureka Ammunition Company  Gentlemen  Your shipment of sailor hats arrived this morning by freight  Gloria, I could go for you in a big way  However, the rifles you sent were a little rusty   and I don't say that to everybody  Have not received last month's drawing account. How come? Your neck is like a swan... Yours very truly. Now read it back.
Eureka Ammunition Company, Gentlemen. Your shipment of sailor hats arrived this morning by freight. Gloria, I could go for you in a big way. However, the rifles you sent were a little rusty and I don't say that to everybody. Have not received last month's drawing account; how come your neck is like a swan. Yours very truly...
They'll know I mean business then they get that letter... see that that gets out immediately and that goes for you too.
Yes, sir.
Gloria, much as I hate to leave, I'd be crazy to stay here.
From what I have been gathering, I think they think I should be king: I think they think I should be king!
He should be king!
And wear a crown and everything.
And everything. He should be king!
Of course you're All aware a king must have an heir some one to pass the family name along will some one tell me where I'd ever get an heir if a king can do no wrong
The king can do no wrong!
Suppose a pretty dame Into my castle came  And let us say that I was going strong. She might be stuck on me, but what good would it be, if the king can do no wrong.
The king can do to wrong!
King Solomon was game he gave each Girl his name to number them would make a list that long I'll bet his thousand wives led miserable lives if the king can do no wrong.
We really think he should be king and wear a crown and everything.
They think I should  They think I should  They think I should  They think I should be king.
Excuse me, Father, Mother, when are we moving back to Tokyo? I can't stand this place anymore. They put butter on everything.
English! English, you stupid little retard! We America now, Tina!
I'm sorry, Dad, but with all due respect, my name isn't "Tina," it's Seiko.
Tina! Tina!! TINA!!!
Mom, I just finished the third movement of that concerto I was working on. I put, like, this techno beat on this Japanese folk tune  wanna hear it?
No! We not like to hear it! Go to your room and shut up!
Oh, I almost forgot... I got my acceptance to Tokyo University.
What, you deaf? I say shut up  shut up  SHUT UP! Cut her outta this!
Are we on "Cops?" Are we on "Cops?" Are we on "Cops?"
Shut up, Hank. This here's business.
Ow, Harold  Mom said not the head.
Well, Mom's dead, so shut your fly trap.
I will if you shut your piehole.
Don't make me kickya where the good Lord splitya.
Close up shop. Close up shop, Hank.
Harold!
Close up shop!
EEAAAYEEEEAAAAYOUIAAAEEEEEEEE!
Come on! Hankey here can't help it if he was born crazier than a shithouse rat!
Let's get this straight right now. We wouldn't have been late at all if it wasn't for you.
I want to have the big bag of little donuts.
You get nothing, Hank, okay?
I want to get the big bag of little donuts.
There's your paint can. The next time you drink window cleaner, I'm just gonna leave it in ya.
...that filth is better left in the "Sin Cities."
A.k.a. Minneapolis  St. Paul.
...Today's "To Do" list includes a trip to the Mall of America. We need outfits for the "Physical Fitness" number 
Nothin' too showy!
Y'betcha, Iris. We still need a third judge and we need to think of a theme.
Gladys  Gladys! Look out!
Oh, my! Hello, Father Donigan! Sidewalks, sidewalks?
Iris, stop! It's not his fault. The communal wine just proves too temptin' for some of them.
That's why we Lutherans use grape Koolaid for the blood of Christ.
Oh, there's a parking space over there. Oh, no, that's just a compact. Sorry.
You'd think they'd build the parking lot of America to go with the Mall of America!
It's a twohundred dollar fine!
I said I'd move if a cripple came. Let's just run in the store and pick out some outfits.
All right, let's go.
Oh! What is it?
"Proud... to be... an... American."
Well, you know, I think everyone's doing really well considering the fact that she was so young.
It's always hard to see the young ones called home, especially on an exploding thresher. It's just so odd and gross.
You know that sometimes it's hard to understand God's great plan.
Yeah.
So, remember the three most important parts of a good interview...
Okay, everybody, listen up!
Number one, American Teen Princess' don't cross their legs like streetwalkers.
Okay, I designed the float, you know. And, what's gonna happen here is that this is going to look like a glistening lake beneath the swan.
Uh, Gladys?
What!
We need more bars!
This is  what?
Enid ate a whole pan!
I swear to God she can't do anything by herself.
...You betcha. S'posed to be colder na witches tit tonight...
Oh, Lester. He loves his weather, y'know.
Hey, ya like it? Open it... Yah  the globe. Pull at the equator there.
We're not in the showroom, Dear.
Lester?
Oh, all right How soon they forget where all this comes from.
Yah  she's damn near as good as that little black fella  with the glass eye.
Sammy Davis, Jr., honey.
Yeah, yeah, the Jew.
Hey! Turn that float around. You think a swan's gonna swim ass first up Main Street?
Yah  Gladys had me order that swan special made from Mexico in case Becky won. I do a lotta business with those people. I always offer to pay 'em in tacos. Whoo, they love that.
Hey, Ted, sorry. I didn't know your family was in the garage when I set it on fire!
Gladys! Stop it!
Guess it wasn't a garage sale as much as it was a bake sale. Ah hahahahahahahaha!
So help me, Gladys.
Becky was my only shot at state!
That's enough!
Let go! Let go of me. Oh my God, it's COPS!
...Oh, yeahright. I ain't gonna be in no goddamn pageant! Look what happened to that dorkass farm girl.
Tammy Curry?
Yah  yah. Everyone says this is a big accident? She got iced because she wins everything, and this time someone didn't want her to win.
This pageant's like a roach motel.
Girls check in, but they don't check out.
Yeah. And they say smokin' is bad for your health.
Yeah.
What a surprise. Gladys Leeman's finally gonna go to State. And she'll probably ride on Becky's ass all the way to Nationals, too.
I wonder how she's gonna fix that one.
Do you think that most people would say that teenage beauty pageants are a good idea?
Oh yahsure, I know what some of your big city, no bra wearin', hairy legged women's libbers say, "Pageants are oldfashioned" and, uh, and "demeaning" to the girls 
So what was the theme of the pageant last year?
Last year? It was, "Buy American."
And the year before that?
"U.S.A. is Aokay."
Can you remember the theme of your favorite pageant?
"Can I? I'm AmerICan!" People ask me where I get this. I don't know, it's... maybe a gift from God or somethin'.
I'm a mirror.
Correction. This spunky monkey on my right is Terry Macey. And we are your Minnesota American Teen Princess State Board.
We're also the cofounders of the Minnesota Modeling Academy. Applications are at the tiki bar. We'll wave the fifty dollar application fee if you list a friend and put her address.
That's right.
Okay?
Mmhm.
People, people  wait, wait a minute, here. Uh, while we haven't ruled out sabotage from neighboring state pageants  Iowa, Wisconsin, North Dakota...
Yeah.
Dakota.
Ohio...
That bitch from...
What?
Wisconsin.
All right, then.
The bitch.
The important thing is that we have a winner...
Well, it's all happenin' so fast. Goodnessgracious, it hardly seems real, y'know? I mean, I won! I'm the winner! I'm going to State!
She's the winner and we're going to state.
C'mon, Rebecca, you wanted it. Now get up there. Ride it sidesaddle if you have to  like a horse. C'mon, now.
It smells funny. Like gasoline.
Oh for chrissakes, everything smells like that in Mexico.
My dress'll reek.
Listen, little missy, this cost your dad a pretty penny. Now get your ass up there and show me some teeth.
What do you mean, they take out her butt?
Oh, Jesus H. Christ!
Are we on "Cops" again?
You could be quiet.
Hi.
Hi.
It's just the guys that are... you know, makin' the movie about the pageant. I told you about 'em.
Oh, naw. Hi.
This here's Loretta.
I tell Annette, I says, "You talk to me durin' my stories, you might as well be talkin' to the wall." You guys want a beer?
Say, yous boys been to the Leeman's?
Loretta, shut it.
Y'know, if you have, you got all the pictures of the winner you need.
Shut it up, Loretta.
Oh, Christ, it's true.
Let's just say who should win, who deserves to win is Amber.
Why don't you paint a big red target on your ass, Loretta.
She's the prettiest, y'know. The best damn tapper. The most smartest...
"Most smartest?" Oh, that's good, Loretta. Make sure you get a picture of that. "Most smartest." We're cuttin you off and sendin' you home.
Well, excuse me, Annette, but I'm braggin' up your kid, here. Amber's gonna be the next Diane Sawyer, y'know...
I'll be right back. See ya later.
They're makin' a movie, here, goddamn it.
All right, they're makin' a movie.
You don't know where this is gonna...
I got a hairdo.
Don't fall for it. She lives two trailers down.
So? Be real easy.
Go on home, Loretta. Come on. Go on, the party's over.
Anyone?
OhJesusMarynJoseph, she's pregnant! If you are  come back, sweetie. Mommy wants to talk, then KILL YOU!
Annette, why don't you just see if there's any beer left in that can and relax a bit.
We was robbed.
Okay. Take her purse.
Annette, just use your hand.
They told me to practice.
Hi...
Hi.
Here, I'll take it. It's my job.
NO... It's all right. I got it. Don't worry about it.
Oh man, you got leutefisk in your hair.
Then it must be Wednesday.
So, uh, I  I'm not really busy Friday. I just said that  y'know.
I know.
So if, uh, you wanted to do somethin'...
Well, uh, I'm cuttin' out early today to do a little duck huntin'... but, uh, maybe I could call you tonight.
Yahsure, fine... fine.
Okay... well, bye.
Bye.
Here, I didn't get any.
Here, have some.
So, anyone talk to Janelle?
Yah  I brought her some flowers this morning. She's in the room next to my mom. She's super happy.
Amber, if I die from these fumes, will you be sure to cover the hickies on my neck?
Yeah...
And the bite marks on my ears?
Yes...
I know it doesn't matter, but on my inner thighs.
Yes, Leslie!
What're you doin' here?
Oh, Amber, like you're the only one who visits Mary.
What?
You heard me. Where is it?
If you're gettin' at somethin', you better just say it.
I just did.
Well then, you better be willin' to back it up, 'cause you're talkin' like crazy.
Oh  oh, you bring me some of that snotty attitude, Becky  bring it on.
Well, as my mother says at Sunday dinner, "Come and get it," bitch!
Oh, I'll "get it." I'll "get it" all right. I might even take seconds.
If you want seconds, then I'll make sure it's hot enough for ya.
Bitch!
Okay, okay! Listenup. Coupla notes from last night's dress rehearsal. Number one, Gladys says a coupla yous are gettin' sexy with your hips durin' the "Physical Fitness" routine...
Oh my God! My  my tap costume's gone.
Uh, Amber? We're not puttin' on our Talent costumes. You need to put on your "Physical Fitness" outfit. And let's shake a leg, ladies.
No, wait. It  it was here before the openin' number... wait. What am I sayin'? I should just ask you, Becky. Where is it?
I hate her!
We all do. Now let's go.
Mrs. Clark, why are you doing this to me? Why're you pretendin' you don't know what's goin' on?
Amber, I'm sorry. I really am. But you know the rules. All talent costumes hafta be okay'd by Gladys before the pageant.
But, doesn't someone taking your costume so you can't compete, overrule that rule?
Sorry. I  I don't make the rules.
This, this... This is bullshit!
Amber Atkins! That is not American Teen Princess language!
Good, 'cause this isn't an American Teen Princess Pageant  it's, it's Nazi Germany!
...Yah  1963. Her beauty worked against her when she started as a reporter in Louisville, her hometown. Those were different times.
Hey, Amber, y'get my smokes?
That's my mom. I'll get 'em in a sec.
Oh shit!
They're from L.A. They wanted to see my room and film me for their movie.
Oh... How quickly they grow up. Hey, if they ask you to take off your shirt, get the money first.
Oh, Mom, it's so ugly.
Ruined a brandnew pair of Lee Press ons. Well, I sat down for a beer and KA BLEWEY! Next thing I know, somethin' blows through my kitchen window. Next thing I know, I'm ass up in Loretta's flower bed.
Go on! Get out!
Mom, look, don't say anything. First of all, I'm not pregnant.
Mom!
I ain't lettin' go ktil you tell me what's up. I'm reaching' a point where I'd kill someone for the nicotine on their fingernails.
Okay. Yesterday I... I got this picture. So I kinda, y'know, I'm thinkin' no. I'm gonna, I  I  I'm gonna quit the pageant.
What?!
Ow!
Would yous boys excuse us a second? Loretta, you too.
Nice mouth you got there, Mom, but I  I'm not goin' through this again.
You're not goin' through this again? You? You're not the one who knows how Jiffy Pop feels.
Oh, c'mon... First the picture of Tammy, then Brett Clemens, now this? It's scary.
Let me tell you "scary," Amber. Look at me. Do you wanna look like you been rode hard and put away wet at my age? I'm a "lifer" here. Best I can hope for is to end up in a descent "raisin ranch" where they'll change me twice a day.
That's it, I'm goin'...
Honest to God, if I got to do it over? I'd start walkin' outta this town the minute I took my first step. Practically the only thing I wouldn't do different is have you...
God I hope that's you and not your concussion talkin'.
It's me... I just don't want this to be the thing you'd do over. This pageant's your ticket outta here. I know you can win, Amber.
C'mere. I love you so much.
I love you much.
Bye mom.
We was robbed.
It's okay.
Sorry. I just thought she might not wanna meet her Maker lookin' like a cheap whore.
Well, your "cheap whore" is this family's "lovin' mother." The Clemens said to make him look like he just came from snowmobilin'. Pink cheeks, and...
 red nose and ears. I know, I know.
Amber...
No, don't say it. Another stray bullet to the head.
I'm gonna need more caps.
You hafta go home. There's some kinda emergency at the trailer park.
Relax, that's my ma's code for, "Bring home milk and a cartona Luckys."
No. Loretta called. There's been a... a fire.
I'm lucky I have an afterschool job where I can practice my talent.
Oh, yeah, sure. You know, every pageant is special, but this one is extraspecial to me. When I was seventeen, I don't know if you know this, but I was crowned Mount Rose's American Teen Princess. And this year... drum roll please, my lovely daughter, Rebecca Ann Leeman is competin'.
Mrs. Leeman?
Huh?
I  I'm wearin' this costume. I'm, uh, I'm gonna do my talent tonight.
Oh really  I don't think so. Uh, Amber, I hate to be the bearer of bad news, but rules state that a costume must be okay'd at least a week in advance. And this... This is why we have the rule. My goodness gracious, I couldn't allow a neckline this low on stage. We have kids in the audience.
But, you  I mean... It's not my fault. I  I... Please? I didn't do anything wrong...
Oh, Amber...
I  I  I  I  I , juhjuh just wanted to compeeeeete.
I can't believe this is happenin'. I can't believe she said you couldn't...
Amber? Here.
"Here," whwhwhat?
My jacket. Take it 'cause, y'know, I got my costume okay'd before the pageant. You can wear it.
Shut up, yous guys. Look, Amber, I'm not gonna win. And let's be honest, a family only needs one "Liza" and you know Peter's got much better legs than me.
Your parents'd kill you.
Oh c'mon, I love 'em, but you know they only had me 'cause Peter needed a kidney.
Lis, I want to, I really do, but... Oh, I can't.
Then do it for Peter. Mrs. Leeman used to call him a "skinny little fag" when he'd bag her groceries. He'd pop his Nancybelt if his old jacket somehow, I don't know, got her back.
Yah?
Ohyoubeccha.
Is Mom okay?
She's alive, sweetie.
Where is she?!
She's right over there.
Mommmm! I'll be right behind you in the hearse!
Don't let that worry you, Annette!
You're what?!
I  I'm quittin' the pageant.
I heard you, I was just tryin' to scare you into changin' your mind. Oh for Chrissakes, Amber, the woman clung to your tap shoes while flyin' through the air like a Goddamn lawn dart!
Oh God, I'm dead...
So, what do I say?
Simple. Just say, "Mom, I know you sacrificed everything  relationships, dreams  your tummy, ass and thighs  all to bring me into this world. All so I could have tap lessons and be in the pageant  the same one you were in. But, y'know what? I'm quittin'." There. Easy as pie.
Oh my God. I'm so dead...
Yeah, you betcha...
Hellno, she ain't quittin'.
No. Mom said if I did, she'd look up my dad and marry him.
"Once a carnie, always a carnie."
Ohyah.
That was your mom. She wanted you to have this.
Really, Loretta?
Youbetcha.
My mom wanted me to have this?
Oh, shut up. I thought it might help you get some sleep.
Loretta, never have kids.
Well Godloveya for thinkin' I still could.
Oh, Mom's okay. They're just givin' her a ride back. She almost blew outta the back of Loretta's pickup on the way over.
Thank God for bunge cords.
...Yah  well, at least, y'know, I got to perform. And Mom got to see me. I guess number eight only worked for Diane Sawyer...
What is wrong with you?
I don't know. I just didn't wanna win like this.
You stop right there. You are a good person. Good things happen to good people.
Really?
No. It's pure bullshit, sweetie. You're lucky as hell, so you might as well enjoy it. Let's get you a root beer float.
Okay.
Do you guys want some shots? I'm buyin'.
I never liked her, but she didn't deserve to die in the belly of a swan like that. The whole thing's just kinda sad and lame at the same time.
This came for you, sweetie.
Ah! It's from State! Oh my God!
It's all the stuff I get to do. Oh my God, oh my God... Okay, okay... We get a "personal consultation" with a makeup artist  Eeeh! Okay, um, there'll be a choreographer to the stars and, oh no  No way. Oh... My... God!
What? For chrissakes, spit it out.
I'll be stayin' overnight at... The Airport Howard Johnsons!
Right by the airport  Oh, Amber...
There's an indoor swimming pool! Ahhhh!
All right, say "Airport HoJo."
Airport HoJo!
I got it! Yeah, why don't ya take a...
Loretta, don't do that.
I'm sorry. They're just starin'.
I gotta work with these women.
Okay, sweetie, that's all right. Let's go. Let's go.
I just, I just can't believe it. I'm Minnesota's American Teen Princess!
Our baby's going to Nationals! Lincoln, Alabama  look out!
I'm gonna be on TV! Just like Diane Sawyer.
Chut up!
Go back to China, bitch!
Maybe Martha Moo finally went nuts and hijacked the bus.
You know, there's, like, this rule. We get to go home at 7:55.
There's no rule!
Fuck yeah there is! If the bus doesn't show up in thirty minutes, you're supposed to go straight home.
All right! 7:55. Everybody goes home.
Let's go to Donnie's house. His parents are both at work.
What is this shit?
Raspberry.
Wicked.
No more fuckin' for her.
Smurfette doesn't fuck.
Bullshit. Smurfette fucks all the other smurfs. That's why Papa Smurf made her, 'cause the other smurfs were getting too horny.
Not Vanity. He's a homo.
We got eggs, water balloons, and a dozen rolls of toilet paper.
I stole four beers from my dad.
Kitty, I would appreciate... if you could wait...
Mr. Cole... not only am I a TEACHER... but I am also a PARENT of a Middlesex child. Therefore, I am the ONLY person here who transcends the parentteacher bridge.
Kitty...
The bottom line... Mr. Cole... is that there is material being taught to our children that is cause for this destructive behaviour.
And how do they do this? They FLOOD the house... by breaking through the water main!
This meeting of the PTA was called to inform the parents of our ongoing investigation...
I AM THE PTA! And I say that this FILTH is directly related to this vandalism.
Excuse me... but what is the real issue here? The PTA doesn't ban books from school.
The PTA is here to acknowledge that there is pornography in our school's curriculum.
Do you even know who Graham Greene is?
I think we've all seen "Bonanza".
Kitty, I don't know what to say. They've suspended him for two days. Ever since this jet fiasco, I honestly don't know what has gotten into him.
Rose, I'll tell you this because our daughters have been on dance team together for two years and I respect you as a WOMAN. But after witnessing your son's behaviour today, I have... significant doubts... Our paths through life must be righteous. I urge you to go home and look in the mirror and pray that your son does not succumb to the path of fear.
Rose.
Kitty...
Rose, we have a crisis. I am sure that you are aware of the horrible allegations against Jim Cunningham.
Yes, I saw the news. Something about a kiddieporn dungeon.
Please! Don't say those words. Well... as you can see... many of us are devastated by this news. This is obviously some kind of conspiracy meant to destroy an innocent man. And I have taken it upon myself to spearhead the Jim Cunningham defence campaign. But unfortunately my civic duties have created a conflict of interest... which involves you.
Beg pardon?
Rose... I have to appear at his arraignment tomorrow morning. And as you know, the girls also leave for Los Angeles tomorrow morning. Now, as their coach... I was the obvious choice to chaperone them on the trip.
But now you can't go.
Yes. And believe me, of all the other mothers I would never dream of asking you, given the predicament with your son. But none of the other mothers are able to go.
Oh, Kitty, I don't know. This is so lastminute... Eddie is in New York...
Rose... I don't know if you realise how great an opportunity this is for our daughters. This has been a dream of ours for a long time. Sometimes I doubt your commitment to Sparkle Motion.
I got twelve classrooms full of water. All coming from a busted water main.
What else?
What else? Shit, Principal Cole, you ain't gonna believe what else.
Christ. Is that an axe?
Yep.
How did this happen?
I guess they made him do it.
I haven't been accepted yet, mother.
If you think Michael Dukakis will provide for this country prior to the point when you decide to squeeze one out, then I think you're misinformed.
Excuse me?
Donnie? You're a dick.
Did you just call me a fuckass?
That's enough.
You can suck a fuck.
No. I took a year off to be with you. Of course I care. Don't get angry. What?
How did you know 
I didn't realise it was such a big deal.
It is a big deal.
I caught him flushing pills down the toilet. He knows you check the container.
Here are the keys to the Taurus. There's plenty of groceries in the fridge. And I left money on the kitchen table. And don't forget...
Don't worry, Mom. Just go, you'll miss your flight.
Our son just called me a bitch.
You're not a bitch.
So let me get this straight. No airline will claim ownership of the engine. So we have to wait for the FAA to decide who fixes my roof. Fuck that. We're taking the money out of savings.
You are entering a new dimension of sight and sound...
What?
Frankie Feedler. You remember him from high school?
He was a year ahead of us?
He died, remember? On the way to the prom. He was doomed.
Thank you for seeing us... We... just felt that it was time to discuss...
What I think is going on with your son.
Well, you know about his past. And when you said to look for signs of aggression... He was recently suspended from school for insulting his gym teacher.
Has your son ever told you about Frank?
Come again?
Frank... the giant bunny rabbit?
Frank?
Donnie is experiencing what is commonly called a daylight hallucination.
You're telling me my son has an imaginary friend?
He has described lengthy conversations... physical encounters with what I believe to be a manifestation of his subconscious mind.
I... What can we do?
I would like to put him through more hypnotherapy... and increase his medication.
If that's what you think is necessary.
But let me remind you that this treatment is... experimental.
How much are they paying you to be here?
Excuse me? What's your name, son?
Gerald.
Well, Gerald, I think you're afraid.
Well, Jim, I think you're full of shit!
I think you are afraid to ask me for advice. I think that you are a very troubled... confused young man. I think you're searching for answers in all the wrong places.
Well, I think you're the fucking AntiChrist.
Whoa, Elizabeth. A little hostile, there. Maybe you should be the one in therapy. Then Mom and Dad can pay someone two hundred dollars an hour to listen to all of your thoughts... so we won't have to.
Maybe you'd like to tell Mom and Dad why you stopped taking your medication.
It's called "The Philosophy of Time Travel".
What does time travel have to do with philosophy?
Guess who wrote it?
So I hear you have a girlfriend.
Yeah.
What's her name?
You're not gonna tell Mom, are you?
Why would I tell Mom?
Because you tell Mom everything.
No I don't. She worries about you.
Well, don't worry... I'm taking my medication.
It's not that. I mean mouthing off to your teachers. I'll admit... when Dad told me what you said to Ms. Farmer, I laughed my ass off.
I was just being honest.
Yeah... well, that's not the way the world works. If you keep being too honest, the world will eventually find a way to destroy you.
Her name is Gretchen.
That's a nice name. OK, let me see it.
I got in. I'm going to Harvard.
Congratulations.
Mom and Dad won't be back until Sunday night. It's Halloween Carnival. We should throw a party. We could totally get away with it.
Okay, but it has to be a small one.
Everything is going to be just fine.
Your mother said that you've been skipping cycles of your medication.
I've been taking it. I just like to make her feel guilty for all of this. You know, abuse her. Psychologically.
All of this... certainly isn't your mother's fault, Donald.
So, I met a new friend.
Would you like to talk about this friend?
His name is Frank.
Frank.
I think he saved my life.
How so?
Don't you watch the news?
I don't own a television.
A jet engine fell on my house... landed on my bed. While I was talking to Frank on the golf course.
Frank... instructed you... to get out of bed... just before this happened.
He said to follow him.
Follow him where?
Into the future. Then he said that the world was coming to an end.
Do you believe that the world is coming to an end?
No. That's stupid.
And when I clap my hands twice, you will wake up. Do you understand?
Yes.
So, tell me about your day, Donald.
I met a girl.
What is her name?
Gretchen. We're going together now.
Do you think a lot about girls?
Yes.
How are things going at school?
I think about girls a lot.
I asked you about school.
I think about... fucking a lot during school.
What else do you think about during school?
I think... about... "Who's the Boss?"
Who is the boss?
I just turn the volume down and think about fucking Alyssa Milano.
What about your family, Donnie?
No, I don't think about fucking my family. That's sick!
Donnie... I want to hear about your friend Frank.
How many times have you seen Frank?
Four times... so far.
Can anyone else see him?
I don't think so. It's like a TV station. And they're tuned into mine and no one else's.
Who is they? Is Frank part of some larger group?
I don't know. Gretchen has a theory. That Frank is a sign. I told her I thought it was ridiculous.
A sign from whom?
I think that Frank wants me to go to this woman. She wrote a book about time travel. Frank asked me if I believed in time travel. That can't just be a random coincidence. My dad almost hit her with the car the other day, and she said the creepiest thing. She said that every living creature on this earth dies alone.
How does that make you feel?
It reminded me of my dog Callie.
Is Callie still around?
No. She died when I was eight. We couldn't find her for days. She went and crawled underneath our back porch...
Do you feel alone right now?
I'd like to believe that I'm not... but I've just never seen any proof. So I just choose not to bother with it. It's, like, I could spend my whole life thinking about it... debating it in my head. Weighing the pros and cons. And in the end, I still wouldn't have any proof. So... I don't even debate it any more. Because it's absurd. I don't want to be alone. So, does that make me, like, an atheist?
No. That makes you keep searching.
And they grow out of our stomachs?
It was just like she described them in her book. Like they were alive. The way that they looked... moved... smelled. They were like workers... assigned to each one of us. I followed my spear... and I found something...
What did you find?
Nothing.
Have you told Gretchen about the spears?
Yeah, but if I told her about the other stuff about Frank...
Are you embarrassed by these things that you see?
You know... every week I come in here and I tell you stuff... and it's all embarrassing. I tell you stuff that I don't tell anyone else... and you know what? It's your turn, Dr. Thurman. I'm not saying anything else until you tell me something embarrassing about yourself.
Whoa. That's OK, Dr. Thurman, it's nothing to be embarrassed about. I have sexual fantasies all the time too.
I know.
I mean... Gretchen... She won't even let me kiss her. She says because it's our first kiss... she's, like, waiting for this big... moment or something. I just don't get it. I just want to get it over with so we can move on to the good stuff.
The good stuff.
Yeah... you know... Fucking.
Have you ever made love, Donald?
And when I clap my hands together twice, you will wake up. Do you understand?
Yes.
So, your parents... why did you disappoint them?
I... I was playing with fire.
Is it Frank who wants you to destroy the world, to set the world on fire?
People get hurt.
But it was an accident. The house was under construction.
People get hurt. I don't want to hurt anyone.
But you were punished.
Yes. I went to jail.
Do you wish that you were punished by your parents instead?
They... didn't buy me what I wanted for Christmas that year.
What did you want for Christmas that year?
Hungry Hungry Hippos.
How did you feel... being denied those Hungry Hungry Hippos?
Regret.
What else makes you feel regret?
That I did it again.
You've done it again?
Yes. I flooded my school... and I burned down that pervert's house. I think I only have a few days left... before they catch me.
Why did you do these things, Donnie? Did Frank tell you to commit these crimes?
I have to obey him... because he saved my life. He controls me and I have to obey him or I'll be left all alone... and I'll never figure out what all of this means...
If God exists?
I think now that he might...
Why?
Because I'm so horny.
God exists because you're horny.
I think so. I think that's one of the clues. It's a clue that tells us... to keep going.
Where are we going?
Where are we going, Donald?
I have the power to build a time machine.
How is that possible?
Grandma Death will teach me how. Soon.
Then how is time travel possible?
It would have to be God's portal. They will lead me to it. Then I will go back in time... and I won't feel regret anymore.
When will this happen?
Soon. Time is almost up.
What is going to happen?
Frank is going to kill.
Who is he going to kill?
I can see him right now!
Where is he, Donald?
He's right there... He can read my mind and he'll show me the way out of this. The sky is going to open up... and then He will reveal himself to me.
If the sky were to suddenly open up... there would be no law... there would be no rule. There would only be you and your memories... the choices you've made and the people you've touched. The life that has been carved out from your subconscious is the only evidence by which you will be judged... by which you must judge yourself. Because when this world ends, there will only be you and him... and no one else.
It's too late. I've already ruined my life.
You will survive this... Donald. I promise you that you will survive. You must let me help you. And when I clap my hands together, you will wake up.
Your medication. They're placebos. Just pills made out of water.
Thank you.
Donald, an atheist is someone who denies altogether the existence of a God. You are an agnostic. An agnostic is someone who believes that there can be no proof of the existence of God... but does not deny the possibility that God exists.
Goodbye, Dr. Thurman.
Goodbye, Donald.
Donnie Darko, perhaps, given your recent brush with mass destruction, you can give us your opinion?
Well... they say it right when they are ripping the place to shreds. When they flood the house. That like... destruction is a form of creation. So the fact that they burn the money is... ironic. They just want to see what happens when they tear the world apart. They want to change things.
Who is Frank?
A sixfoottall bunny rabbit.
And when the other rabbits hear of Fiver's vision, do they believe him? It could be the death of an entire way of life, the end of an era.
Why should we care?
Because the rabbits are us, Donnie.
Why should I mourn for a rabbit like it was a human?
Is the death of one species less tragic than another?
Of course. A rabbit is not like us. It has no history books... it has no knowledge of sorrow or regret. I like bunnies and all. They're cute... and they're horny. And if you're cute and horny... then you're probably happy that you don't know who you are... or why you're even alive. But the only thing I've known rabbits to do is have sex as many times as possible before they die.
Ms. Pomeroy... what's going on?
Donnie... it's Friday. Shouldn't you be off with your friends, scaring old people?
Where are you going?
I don't know. That's a good question... but suffice to say that I am no longer your English teacher. They fired me.
That's bullshit. You're a good teacher.
Thank you, Donnie. And you're a good student. Lazy... but a good student. Unlike most of the others, you question Mom and Dad's rules.
What do I tell the rest of the class when they ask about you?
Tell them that everything is going to be just fine. It is up to the children to save themselves these days. Because the parents... they don't have a clue.
What's "Cellar Door"?
A famous linguist once said... that of all the phrases in the English language, of all the endless combinations of words in all of history... that "Cellar Door" is the most beautiful.
Cellar door.
Sometimes it's the only thing that keeps us going.
So... will Donnie find his Cellar Door?
I think I already have. But now she won't even talk to me.
Then go find her, Donnie. Don't let her get away. She was right about the rabbits. Go.
So how was school today?
It was great. We had peanutbutter sandwiches and apples and honey at snacktime. And then during showand tell, my stuffed walrus was a big hit.
Good Lord. So the construction guys say it'll take about a week to fix the roof. Damn airline better not fuck us on the shingle match.
Do they know yet?
Know what?
Where it came from?
No... apparently they can't tell us what happened yet. Something about a matching serial number that got burned. But I had to sign a form saying I wouldn't talk to anyone about it.
So we're not supposed to tell anybody what nobody knows?
You tell Dr. Thurman whatever you want.
Oh, shit!
Grandma Death.
Grandma Death.
You know, Roberta Sparrow. We almost hit her with the car the other day.
You're right. Roberta Sparrow was famous for her gem collections. Kids used to try and steal stuff from her all the time. Over the years... as she got older, she became more and more of a recluse... now she just likes to stay up there all by herself.
I guess she just lost faith in the world.
Who's been giving you weird looks?
A lot of people. Teachers. Younger kids. It's like they're afraid of me for some reason. But that's OK... because I know I deserve it.
You're my only son...
I know, Dad.
I know I'm not the best... communicator. But whatever happens in your life... whatever obstacles you come up against... you just say... and do whatever is in your heart. You be honest... and tell the truth... even if they look at you funny... and they will. They'll tell you that you're wrong. They'll call you a fool. But what you've got to understand, son, is that almost all of those people are full of bullshit... and they're scared of people like you. Because you're smarter than all of them.
Will you still be working at Yarn Barn? 'Cause that's a great place to raise children.
No, a year of partying is enough. She'll be going to Harvard this fall.
You're such a fuckass.
When did you stop taking your medication?
Oh, please tell me, Elizabeth, how exactly does one suck a fuck?
We will not have this kind of language at the dinner table.
I wish I knew where you went at night. Did you toilet paper the Johnson's house?
I stopped rolling houses in the sixth grade, Mom. Get out of my room.
You know... it would be nice to look at you some time... and see my son. I don't recognise this person today.
Then why don't you start taking the goddamn pills?
Grandma Death.
That is a terrible nickname.
He can't, Samantha. He's been suspended from afterschool activities. Donnie... are you still with us? How was your therapy session tonight?
Fine. You know, Dr. Thurman isn't so bad a lady. I can tell her anything.
I have to take the girls to Los Angeles tomorrow.
Do you get to meet Ed?
If I'm lucky. So... I won't be back until the first. Your dad will be back on Sunday, so I've put Elizabeth in charge until then. She has the car... so she can drive you to your therapy tomorrow.
How does it feel to have a wacko for a son?
It feels wonderful.
I'm sorry, Ms. Farmer, I just don't get this.
Just place an X in the appropriate place on the Lifeline.
I just don't get this. Everything can't be lumped into two categories. That's too simple.
The Lifeline is divided that way.
Well, life isn't that simple. So what if Ling Ling kept the cash and returned the wallet? That has nothing to do with either fear or love.
Fear and love are the deepest of human emotions.
Well, yeah... OK, but you're not listening to me. There are other things that need to be taken into account here. Like the whole spectrum of human emotion. You're just lumping everything into these two categories... and, like, denying everything else.
People aren't that simple.
If you don't complete the assignment, you'll get a zero for the day.
Hey...
Hey...
School's cancelled.
Wanna walk me home?
Sure.
Don't look so freaked.
I'm not. But you should check your backpack 'cause those guys like to steal shit.
Fuck them.
So... you just moved here?
Yeah. My parents got divorced. My mom has a restraining order against my stepdad. He has... emotional problems.
Oh, I... have those too. What kind of problems does your dad have?
He stabbed my mom four times in the chest.
Wow. Did he go to jail?
He fled. They still can't find him. My mom and I had to change our names and stuff. I thought Gretchen sounded kind of cool.
I'm sorry. I was in jail once. I accidentally burned down this house. It was abandoned. I got held back in school again. Can't drive until I'm eighteen. I think when I grow up I want to be a painter. Or maybe a writer or maybe both. Then I'll write a book and draw the illustrations like a comic book. You know, change things.
Donnie Darko is a cool name. Sounds like a superhero.
What makes you think I'm not?
I should go. For physics. Monnitoff says I have to write an essay on the greatest invention ever to benefit mankind.
That's easy. Antiseptics.
I mean, the whole sanitation thing. Joseph Lister... 1895. Before antiseptics there was no sanitation, especially in medicine.
You mean soap?
Don't knock soap. Without it, disease would spread rapidly. If we ran out... you and I would never live to see the year 2000.
Wonder where we'll be then.
The best thing about soap is that it's the only thing on earth that can never get dirty. No matter what crap you throw on it... it always rubs off. And there it is again... perfect.
Until it withers away.
It's a good thing the school was flooded today.
Why is that?
We never would have had this conversation.
You're weird.
I'm sorry.
That was a compliment.
Will you go with me?
Where are we going?
No... I mean, will you GO with me? That's like... what they call it here. Going together.
Sure.
Where are you going?
I'm going home.
So when you sleepwalk, can you remember afterward? Like, do you dream?
No. I just wake up and I look around, try to figure out where I am... how I got there.
My dad said never wake a sleepwalker... because they could drop dead.
It's like this big force... that's in your brain. But sometimes it grows bigger... and it spread down into your arms and legs... and it just sends you someplace.
So when you sleepwalk, you go somewhere familiar?
No. Every time I wake up somewhere different. Sometimes my bike is laying there next to me. Like once when I woke up on the edge of this cliff up on Carpathian Ridge.
And you'd never been there before?
Donnie?
Yeah?
Do you ever feel as though there's always someone watching you?
Why?
Well... maybe someone is, like... giving you these dream steroids. And sleepwalking ...is someone showing you the way.
What happened to your neck?
I don't want to talk about it. So what happened to your neck?
Babies cry because they're afraid of the dark. And because they have no memories... for all they know... every night could be the last forever. Like, perpetual darkness.
Why not just buy your baby a night light?
That's not good enough. You've got to go back in time and take all those hours of darkness and pain and replace them... with whatever you wanted.
With, like, images?
Like... a Hawaiian sunset... the Grand Canyon. Things that remind you how beautiful the world can be.
You know... we've been going together for a week and a half...
And what?
Well...
You want to kiss me...
That's alright... I understand.
No... Donnie, wait. I've never...
I always wanted it to be at a time when... when it reminds you how beautiful the world can be.
Yeah. And right now there's some fat guy over there watching us.
We're moving through time.
What?
They suspended me for two days.
Are you okay?
I've been seeing stuff... a lot of really messedup stuff. Do you know who Grandma Death is?
Who?
The old crazy woman who lives off Old Gun Road.
Oh, yeah. "The Philosophy of Time Travel". What is this?
She wrote it. There are chapters in this book that describe the stuff I've been seeing. It can't just be a coincidence. Will you come see her with me?
I know she's here. She never leaves the house.
Maybe she's asleep.
So, we call them... IMGs.
Infant Memory Generators.
Yeah. So the idea is that... you buy these glasses for your infant, and they wear them at night when they sleep.
And inside these glasses are these slide photographs. And each photograph is of something peaceful... or beautiful. Whatever pictures the parent wants to put inside.
What? How long was I asleep?
The whole movie. Let's go.
You want to skip fourth period and go to the Ridge?
What's wrong with you?
What do you mean?
Will you please talk to me?
Not now, Donnie. It isn't a good time.
Then when? I have to talk to you.
Hey.
Hey. You OK?
My mom is gone.
Where is she?
I don't know. She didn't leave a note. The house is all messed up.
But you're OK?
Did you call the cops?
Yeah, they told me to get out of the house.
I'm so scared... I just keep thinking that something awful has happened. It's my fucking stepdad. I know it.
It's safe here.
What?
There's something you have to know, Gretchen. Everything is going to be just fine.
Come with me.
Where are we going?
Time is running out. We have to go see Grandma Death. We have to talk to her.
Why? Is this about the book?
No. Frank.
Who's Frank?
Is that a cellar door?
Yeah...
DARKO CHEATS DEATH! Man... you're famous! I called you, like, a jillion times last night!
We went to a hotel.
My dad said he found you on the golf course. Are you sleepwalking again?
I don't wanna talk about it.
How old is Grandma Death?
A hundred and one, I think. Every day she does the same thing. But there's never any mail.
What'd you do, Donnie? What'd you do!
Go home. Go home and tell your parents that everything is going to be just fine.
How can you do that?
I can do anything I want... and so can you...
Why did you make me flood the school?
We just want to guide you in the right direction.
Who is... we?
You'll know soon enough.
Where did you come from?
Do you believe in time travel, Donnie?
I want to show you something.
You have to do something for me first.
You have a request?
Yeah. Tell me why you're wearing that stupid bunny suit.
Why are you wearing that stupid man suit?
Take it off. I want to see you.
What happened to your eye?
I am so sorry.
Why do they call you Frank?
It is the name of my father... and his father before me.
How much longer is this gonna last?
You should already know that. Watch the movie, Donnie. I have something to show you.
Did you tell them that I flooded the school?
I didn't say shit.
That's not what I heard. Now they think I did it.
Well, if you're innocent, then you have nothing to worry about.
You know what? I think that you did it.
Dea ex machina...
What did you say?
Our saviour...
When can I squeeze one out?
Not until like... eighth grade.
Why do I have to sleep with Donnie? He stinks.
When you fall asleep tonight, I'm gonna fart in your face.
I'm telling Mom.
What happens if you tell Mom and Dad about this, Samantha?
You'll put Ariel in the garbage disposal.
"The Last Unicorn!" By Samantha Darko.
Donnie! Give it back!
Dr. Monnitoff?
Donnie.
I know that this is gonna sound kinda weird... but do you know anything about time travel?
So... according to Hawking... wormholes might be able to provide a short cut for jumping between two distant regions of spacetime.
So... in order to travel back in time, you'd have to have a big spaceship or something that can travel faster than the speed of light 
Theoretically.
 and be able to find one of these wormholes.
A wormhole with an EinsteinRosen bridge, which is, theoretically... a wormhole in space controlled by man.
So... that's it?
The basic principles of time travel are there. So you have the vessel and the portal. And the vessel can be anything. Most likely a spacecraft.
Like a DeLorean.
A metal craft of any kind.
What effect do you think this would have on an infant?
Well... the thing is, nobody remembers their infancy. And anyone who says they do is lying. We think that this would help develop memory earlier in life.
Did you stop and think that maybe infants need darkness? That darkness is part of their natural development.
Each vessel travels along a vector path through spacetime... along its centre of gravity.
Like a spear.
Beg pardon?
Like a spear that comes out of your stomach?
Uhh... sure. And in order for the vessel to travel through time it must find the portal, in this case the wormhole, or some unforeseen portal that lies undiscovered.
Could these wormholes appear in nature?
That... is highly unlikely. You're talking about an act of God.
If God controls time... then all time is predecided. Then every living thing travels along a set path.
I'm not following you.
If you could see your path or channel growing out of your stomach, you could see into the future. And that's a form of time travel, right?
You are contradicting yourself, Donnie. If we could see our destines manifest themselves visually... then we would be given the choice to betray our chosen destinies. The very fact that this choice exists... would mean that all preformed destiny would end.
Not if you chose to stay within God's channel...
Donnie, I'm afraid I can't continue this conversation. I could lose my job.
Hi... what's going on here?
Horrible accident. My neighbour... he got killed.
What happened?
He got smooshed. By a jet engine.
What was his name?
Donnie. Donnie Darko.
I feel bad for his family.
Yeah.
Did you know him?
Good morning, mongrels!
Good morning...
That's all the gusta you can musta? I said, "Good morning!"
Good MORNING!
Now that's better... but I still sense some students out there... who are AFRAID... just to say GOOD MORNING!
GOOD MORNING!
Are you AFRAID?
GOOD MORNING!
Now that's what I like to hear! Because too many young men and women today are paralysed by their fears. They give in to their feelings of selfdoubt... they surrender their bodies to the temptations of drugs, alcohol and premarital sex. Empty solutions. These are toxic chemicals... and diseasespreading behaviour.
Simple Simon on the Rock, go caller.
Hello? Is this me? I'm Trip. Am I on the air?
I should hang up on you right now, but you're the right caller so answer quick or get your battleship sunk. What are the names of the four members of KISS?
Gene Klein, Stanley Eisen, Paul Frehley, and Peter...Criscula! Yeah, that's it!
Is that your final answer?
Yeah.
Trip? You just got yourself four tickets and four backstage passes to KISS live at Cobo Hall tonight!
I did?
Yeah, you did!
Yeeeehaaawww!! This is totally fuckin' curly, man! Thank you God!
Whoa, easy, Trip, this is radio, not "Taxi Driver." Now listen up cause this next part is crucial. Stay on the line so we can get your full name, information, and...
Oh, yeah! You and what army?
The KISS Army!
Gimme your gun, boy!
No, you gimme your gun, boy!
Don't tempt me, I'll shoot!
Not if I shoot first!
I don't even think you have a gun!
Neither do I!
Please sir, don't beat me up. I do have a KISS ticket, but not on me.
A likely story. Hand it over, kid.
No really. My brother's hanging onto it for safe keeping. Please, let me get him for you.
Hey, kid, that's okay. I don't wanna see KISS that ba...
Don't try to run, maggot. Chongo's an allstate track star in every event.
What do you want?
A tag on your toe. Nobody threatens me and lives.
Look, you can have my wallet...
It's not nearly enough, punk.
Please, sir, don't kick my ass! I'll do anything to get out of a beating!
Say, Chongo, perhaps we could use some extra cash for tasty snacks at the KISS concert our weasly friend won't be attending.
Two hundred bucks?
You heard me, nad breath. My time's precious and I think that's a reasonable price to pay for your sorry life.
Look, I want to live, but I don't know where the fuck I'm gonna find two hundred bucks.
Jam has yet to do an overnight with us.
I had a nightmare once that something like this might happen. I hope he doesn't get grounded again. If he misses Peter Criss's drum solo, I don't know if he'll be able to handle it.
Poor, Jam, man. Imagine having to stash your KISS records inside Carly Simon album covers. No question, Mrs. Bruce is a psychobitch from hell.
You're one to talk, Lex. Your mom's a fuckin' dyke.
Trip, a female gynecologist does not a lesbian make. And even if it did, at least my mom didn't give birth to me while she was on LSD.
Shrooms! And even if it was LSD, I can still give my mom a kiss without smelling the catch of the day.
Trip, you fuckin' asshole.
What?
Yeah, right. She wishes. Look at that big ass.
You know what they say about a big ass... big shit.
That's some sick shit right there. Did she comb your ass hair for you too?
If your mom so much as smells those tickets, they're history, and we get screwed outta seeing KISS for the third year in a row, the third year!
I knew it! I knew this was gonna happen! I had a bad feeling since last night. Remember? We are so totally fucked!
Waitaminit, dudes! I got it! Maybe we can glue the tickets back together!
Hey, take it easy, man. This is the girls' crapper, remember?
Wake up, Lex! We just watched Jam's mom torch our fuckin' KISS tickets! Not REO Speedwagon! Not Journey! Not the Bay City Rollers! KISS! If you can think of a better reason to trash a bathroom, I'd sure like to hear it!
Trip, it's not the end of the world, okay? Quit acting all squeezed out.
Oh, everything's hunkydory now that the shit hit the fan just like you said it would, you snug sonofabitch! You fuckin' jinxed us!
Smug, Trip! Not snug, smug.
I did it! I did it! We won!
We won?!
The Chinese have a proverb: "That which appears too good to be true, usually is." There's gotta be a catch.
Yeah? I have a saying too, Lex. It goes, "Catch my jizz in your mouth and stop jinxing us, asshole." We're going this time and that's all there is to it.
Simplicity, Hawk.
Simpleicity is more like it. And you guys thought Jam was in trouble before. Wait till Mrs. Bruce finds out he went to that concert with us.
About fuckin' time if you ask me. I'm just going through the motions till I drop out anyway.
Hello summer detention.
Well, here we are back at fucking school again.
Huh. St. Bernard's. Figures it's named after a canine.
Eyowch! This is one hot pizza!
Trip, huck that out before it stains the upholstery!
Man, that weed knocked Christine on her ass. She's sleeping like a baby stella.
Let's lift up her shirt.
Really, Trip, can we bore holes in your head and use it as a bong so it actually does us some good for a change?
Fuck you, Lex! This whole thing wouldn't have happened if it wasn't for you jinxing us. I just made an honest mistake.
It's gone.
I can see that, bright boy. What happened to it?
But we took the keys?
Damn, she musta hot wired it. We picked up a professional car thief in the shape of Olivia NewtonJohn!
Okay, I'm just a little mad now! Jam, why'd you talk us into picking that bitch up in the first place!?
Twentyfive more'n I got.
All I got is five. The rest is in the Volvo.
Forgive me, Father, for I have sinned. This is my first confession in... well... a really long time.
Prepare to receive the Act of Penance. How many sins have you committed since your last confession?
Just one, Father, but boy was it a doozy.
So, you see if it wasn't for me, me and my friends would be at that KISS concert right now... together.
That's it?
Yeah.
Well, this is a unique confession to say the least, son. And not exactly the most interesting one I've ever heard either. You sure you don't want to talk about... oh, carnal knowledge with a neighborhood girl or impure thoughts about the new student teacher maybe... or how about finding a box of magazines under your dad's bed?
No.
Well then, I suggest you have a seat on the bench behind you and think of something a little juicier to confess than losing KISS tickets. I realize this is Detroit, but I personally find, what that rock and roll band is all about, to be boring as Lucifer's kingdom. I'll return in a little while.
Okay, you better have something really sinful for me this time, son. My patience is worn to threads and your mom will be here any minute.
Alright, Father, here it is. About two weeks ago I went to my cousin's wedding and one of the bridesmaids asked me if I wanted to take a bath.
No...
I was insulted, so I asked her if I was wreaking some wicked b.o., right? Then she said no, she wanted to take a bath with me.
Oh, this is terrible... Please go on.
Well, she was a very tempting siren, Father. Built like you wouldn't believe. So I gave into temptation about a block away from the wedding reception at this little motel that charges by the hour.
Well? Continue! Continue!
Okay... when she peeled off that gown, you'll never guess what she was wearing underneath.
Was it a teddy?
No. Much bet... I mean, much more sinful than that.
A bustier?
Tell you what. You keep guessing and I'll say something when you get it.
Splendid! I love a good game of Name That Nightie.
Oh, hi, mom.
NOW!
Jeremiah, what are you doing?
Uhh... nothing.
Ahh, sunshine.
You're going to be late if you don't hurry up and change soon.
Change? What's wrong with what I got on?
It's dirty laundry for one thing and for another, you still haven't worn the clothes I bought you. You're skating on thin ice already, young man, so I wouldn't push my luck. Now get out of those rags.
But, mom!
Besides, those jeans are so tight I can see your penis.
They're not idiots.
Now don't forget you're on the honor system tonight. I'll be home a little after one and if you've been partying or playing that satanic KISS music... well, need I remind you of the consequences?
Grounded for the rest of the year?
You're a smart boy, Jeremiah. And so handsome.
I made an appointment with Father Phillip McNulty at St. Bernard's. We're to see him directly where he will register you on the spot.
You mean, you're sending me to... b bboarding school?
What else can I do? Oh, records and magazines and comic books are one thing, but tickets? TICKETS? Jeremiah, do you realize what this means? That you're no longer content merely hearing their awful songs or looking at photos of their horrific faces! Now you want to see the devil in the flesh. You want to reach out and touch pure evil... and in Detroit no less!
Someday you'll have a son just like you, Jeremiah. A boy who lies through his teeth, buys demonic records, and smokes the dope just like you.
If I'm anything like you, I'll deserve him.
What?!
I said, I'm sorry!
If you truly are sorry, son, then you better pray like you've never prayed before. God willed me to find those tickets because He wanted to hear from you. He knows you need help and He wants you to ask Him for it.
Mom, what're we...?
Just keep your lying, heathenous trap shut, Jeremiah.
Jeremiah... what's gotten into you?
I just lost my virginity in a confessional booth! Lord have mercy!!
Jam, listen up.
Hawk?
Just listen up, man, cause we are in a quandary.
Are you on the crapper with one of those antenna phones? Sounds like you're taking a dump the size of Butte, Montana.
It's my Bullworker.
Anyway, listen up. They're gone!
What's gone?
The KISS tickets, you nimrod! They're just fuckin' gone! Please tell me you have'm!
Gone!? Why would I have the KISS tick...?
Just check whatever you were wearing last night. Now!
Cool.
I'm really sorry about that, man.
Don't be a fembot. So, are you like grounded because of last night, or what?
Of course, but has that ever stopped me before? Besides, my mom's going to some church meeting and won't be back till late. No sweat... See you guys in school.
They're still at my house in Trip's jacket.
They're what?
She was standing right over me when I was changing for fuck's sake.
Don't worry about it. They're perfectly safe. We can pick them up after school. My mom won't be home. It's no problem.
All right. After school we double time it to your house for the tix before heading to the train station for the 2:45 to Detroit Rock City.
Check.
If he offers you a slice, you're not the least bit hungry, check?
Check.
Don't you think we should at least pull over and offer to clean it off?
What?! Are you mentally deranged, Jam?
Oh no, Jam. I'm not falling for that twice.
Well, couldn't you slow down so I can at least state my case, Hawk? If you don't like it, you can speed up and I'll never mention it again.
It doesn't mean anything. Don't pay attention to him.
Disco Inferno? Disco's infernal morelike.
Hey, Look at the front entrance! A car's pulling out. The parking space from heaven. God is surely smiling down upon us tonight, dudes.
Kind of funny, I thought He'd be pissed as hell at me.
Oh, I'm sorry, Trip. What you made was a big, brainless, pile of horse shit. No offense.
Guys, GUYS! Come on, if this is anyone's fault, it's mine. I was the one who grabbed Trip's jacket by mistake. It's my fault and I apologize.
Please, Jam, we're trying to vent some hostility here. Sure the whole thing may be your fault, but who's gonna get pissed off at you?
It was stolen!
Christine stole it! Asleep, my ass! The stella booted with your mom's wheels.
I'm sorry, guys. I thought it was a nice thing to do.
Jam, not another word out of your femmyass mouth! Okay, we're here, we got nothing, and we got an hour and a half. We're totally committed. It's time to brainstorm.
I got...
Uhuh. Don't tell us, Jam. Just show us.
Wait! I know how we can get in!
Jam, shutup! You're not allowed to speak, remember? Go use whatever femmy idea you have to get yourself a ticket or four. I don't wanna hear it.
But... my plan involves all four of us acting together.
See you at 8:30, Jam. Later. Dudes? Later.
Well... I still got my idea if anybody will let me speak.
Go ahead, Jam.
We all beat each other up, then, once we're nice and bruised, we run over to the ticket takers and say we got mugged and our tickets were stolen. They gotta let us in then.
Dude, this is all I got.
Sorry, man, no can do. But I'll be here for a while if you scare up the extra gravy.
Where the hell am I gonna scare up that kinda gravy in one hour?
The easy way.
You look a little scrawny, but it's worth a shot.
I can't just walk in and take my clothes off. It's embarrasskin.
Guess you don't want to see the greatest show on earth. And in Detroit no less. Well, take care, chief.
Dude, if it were dancing the way Fred Astaire did it, I'd give it my best shot. I'd learn the steps and practice in my spare time. But this... tribal, ritualistic bullshit, it's waytoospontaneous for me.
Yeah, you're probably too young anyhow.
Hey, I invented fake I.D.s, alright. That's not the problem... They're playing disco music in there, man.
Chief, here's a little secret. Drink heavily, your feet will know what to do. Now shit or get off the pot. Do you wanna dance or do you wanna see KISS only on their album covers?
Do you realize the sheer, goddamn, unadulterated, undiluted, no holds barred, one hundred percent pure as Ivory Snow, absolutely friggin' STUPIDITY of what you just did?
Hey, disco dude, it's cool...
Could be.
And if it ain't cleaned off?
Are you gettin' wise with me?
No, I'm dumber than a goddamn slug. Now can I please clean your windshield and leave without further ado?
Well, let's recap, shall we? You slapped all of us, yelled at me, used my head for a rag, threw me on the ground and tossed our LOVE GUN 8 track under the wheels of a passing semi. So, if the lesson was that you're a dick with ears and a really bad haircut, then, yes... I'd say we learned it.
Excuse me, I'm a little deefa hearin'. Can you repeat yourself?
Okay. Ahem! You. Are. A. Dick. With. Ears. And. A. Really. Bad. Haircut.
Oh, yeah...?
How would you like a nice Hawaiian Punch?
Sure.
Will somebody please tell those chicks disco is dead.
Stellas. I hate stellas almost as much as I hate dogs.
Shit, that dork is Jam.
YO, DOOFUS!
Yeah, she gives you shit and you take it.
Okay, enough. Enough. Gimme the tickets. I wanna hold onto them.
Second floor girls' john! Two minutes! He'll never look there!
Check!
That's Sherry VanHafton.
I've been in love with her since the second grade.
Whoa... she just farted.
I have never heard a girl squeeze cheese in my entire life.
Weird...
Too bad we're stuck in electronics or...
Never mind with the too bad shit. I got a crazy plan, but only the craziest among us can pull it off.
But... but, St. Bernard's is way the hell over in the next county!
So? Your mom's car has a CB, radar detector and cruise control, check?
We are not stealing my mom's car.
Damn straight we are.
Hawk, all I need is one ding on the Volvo and presto! There are my balls hanging from the rearview mirror after she gets back from Cincinnati.
And when is she due back from that groinecologist's convention anyway?
Sunday, but...
Then lighten up. She'll never know we touched it. Alright, here's the plan. We bus it to chez Lex, grab the Volvo, bail Jam the hell outta St. Bernard's and arrive at the train station precisely on time for the 2:45 to Detroit.
There's only so much trouble an individual can get into till it just doesn't matter anymore, Lex. You familiar with a condition known as Absolute Zero?
The hypothetical temperature characterized by the absence of heat and even the slightest amount of molecular activity? Yeah, I'm vaguely familiar
Well, Jam is in absolute trouble. He couldn't get any deeper into shit if he was a fly sitting in a horse's ass. You know as well as me he'd give his right arm just to see Peter Criss's drum solo, never mind a whole KISS concert, check?
Very funny, Hawk. Okay, I'm in on this harebrained scheme, but if anything happens to my mom's car, I'm blaming you. I'll say you drugged me or something.
Curly.
Ok, dudes, follow my lead.
Wait a minute. We ditching the rest of school?
Now, how are we gonna do this?
Gimme a second, dudes. Lemme think.
We got you a change of duds when we picked up the car.
Next stop: the 2:45 to Detroit Rock City!
Jeezis, Hawk, can you at least keep it within twenty miles of the speed limit?
Lex, am I gonna have to lock you in the trunk till we reach Detroit? Don't worry, these babies are built for speed.
What the fuck!
The paint!
Uh... dudes?
Now there's a woman who totally abuses the privilege of motherhood.
DUDES!
Here's a suggestion. Let's stop worrying about the concert for the time being and get the cops in on this Volvo situation.
Wake up, Lex. This is Detroit. The cops aren't gonna waste city dollars looking for a Swedish car. Face it, the Volvo's on a cutting board as we speak getting sliced, diced, and julienned by Christine, the chop shop gourmet.
Now listen up. Here's the game plan.
...I mean, my mom's got insurance. What's the worst thing she could do? Ground me for the entire year? I can handle that...
Cool, bro, now listen up...
...Holy shit! I am in absolute trouble! I never should have let you drive, man! Absolute fuckin' trouble!
Okay, shut the fuck up, Lex! Now, then, step number one, we find us a scalper. I got... twentyfive.
I think we should try sneaking in.
Four dudes sneaking in? We'd get busted fer sure. Bad plan.
Okay, one of us sneaks in, gets four ticket stubs off some kids in the audience, comes back out, and we all "reenter" the concerto. Voila!
Still too risky for my money. We're running out of time here. This is KISS! A victory for one is a victory for the team. I'm sure I can barter with a scalper, but if you dudes think you got better plans, go for it. We'll reconvene at that intersection...
I found the Volvo.
Tickets?
No... You don't think...?
Nah. Couldn't be.
What are you, high?
Yeah.
For once Lex is right. It's over. Things can't get any worse from here.
Wonder if you could smoke shit out of this?
Maybe some tunage'll chase those blues away.
This is the best thing that ever happened to me at school! Not only are we on again for KISS in Detroit, but we're actually sitting right at the fifty yard line! I dare you dudes to find a curlier scenario.
Stan Lee couldn't think of a better one.
Namely?
Our band "Mystery" is a quartet and we can't go on the road without our drummer. Jam's mom said something about sending him to St. Bernard's, right? We gotta bust him out before we go anywhere.
Well, the least we, his only buds in the world, can do is take him along with us tonight and give him one last curl before he starts serving his sentence.
Just for the record, I understood the last part of what you said, but for a while there you guys were making no fucking sense whatsoever.
I was just explaining to Lex here what you and I already know. Just had to make it a little more complicated so he'd understand.
I'm starvin' and it's way past lunchtime.
Totally. All I've had for chow was a packet of Pop Rocks and a Yoohoo.
Let's stop in Sandusky, Hawk.
What's in Sandusky?
Pizza, and I been jonesin' for a pizza ever since we left St. Bernard's.
You call that John Travolta/Denny Terio shit dancing? I wouldn't dance like that in private if you paid me.
Disco blows dogs for quarters.
What was that D.J.'s name again?
Oh, I'll remember it till the day I die. His name was... Simpleton the Simian? No, Samson Samoan... No, simply, similar...
I have one question. How could a kid who wails on the drums like it's the only thing keeping him alive even think of such a femmy thing to say?
Really, Jam, you tryin' to make us barf?
So maybe we got enough for one ticket. Fuck!
Waitaminit, dudes! I got it! We find four really small kids, beat the shit outta them and steal their tickets. What do you think?
Brilliance, Trip. Sheer brilliance. Give Albert Einstein here the Nobel Prize.
...at twentythirty hours.
One more time in English.
For the next hour and a half it's every dude for himself. Try to get at least one ticket and at 8:30 P.M. we'll meet over there.
Any luck?
Plenty, but it was all bad.
Oh, great. I just hitched a ride with a bunch of potheads... I'm hooking up with some people at this funky place in downtown Detroit called Disco Inferno. Mind droppin' me there?
What's it worth to you?
What the hell is that supposed to mean?
So, are you, like, gonna polish our nobs, or what?
What? That's disgusting!
Tease? What the hell did I do to tease you mongoloids?
You got in the car, didn't you?
Oh, God, how calculating of me to lead you all on like that after you offered me a ride in the middle of nowhere.
Whatever... stella.
No problem.
Thanks.
Sorry.
It's okay.
Jeremiah?
Yeah?
Beth? I can't believe it.
Believe it.
I didn't mean for that to be so... intense. Forgive me.
I don't care. I wanna hear more.
I've loved you ever since I first laid eyes on you, Jeremiah. I've just always been too scared to show it.
Beth, I can't believe you just said that because that's exactly how I've always felt about you... Call me Jam. It's my band name.
You don't know how long I've been waiting to hear that... Jam!
We've got to take this slow...
Right, slow...
Oh, screw it!
So. Is it true that Gene Simmons had a cow's tongue grafted onto his real one? Y'know, to make it so long?
I dunno. I think he had the piece of skin under his tongue removed so he could stick it out farther. I'm not too up on Gene trivia.
Your man is the drummer, Peter Criss, right?
Peter Criss is my inspiration, man. If I paid a hundred bucks for a KISS show and all I saw was his solo, I'd consider it... money... Hey, how'd you know that?
I have all your notebook doodles memorized, Jam... Here.
Ann Arbor?
My dad's company is relocating him. We're moving. That's why I was acting so freaky in school today. I thought it was the last time I'd ever see you. Anyway, open the box. I would have given it to you this morning, except... like I said, I was freaking out.
Ann Arbor isn't... that far from Cleveland, right?
Nah. Once I get my own wheels, I could come up all the time.
That'd be great. Hey, maybe someday your band'll play there. It's a college town, you know?
I feel like such an idiot. Why didn't I just say something a year and a half ago? Man, think of how much time we wasted.
Let's not think about the past. Let's just think about from today on. I'll never forget you, Jam.
Tell me about it. Church will never be the same again.
Coming dad. I'll call you. Soon as we get a phone. Bye.
Bye.
You're a little scrawny, but thanks to the concert we're low on amateurs. Name?
Hawk.
Pick a song, Hawk.
Got any KISS?
You kidding? This is Detroit. Drink?
Yeah, a man's drink...
What's that?
You mean you never seen a Jack Daniels on the rocks before?
Sure, I have. But not one with ice in it, that's all.
Save your money, stud muffin. The lady at the end of the bar sends her love.
Whoa... she is a killer.
Amanda Finch. Her ex is one of the wealthiest businessmen in Detroit. Play your cards right and you could hit paydirt. She like 'em young. And since you look a little new at this, let me give you three words of advice. Hard to get. Think it, act it, know it, be it. Nothing a woman loves more than when you beat her at her own head games.
Oh, Dicky, I cccan't...
You're not gonna chicken out on me now, are you? We've got your KISS song playing and everything.
II ccan't...
Look, people undress in public because, A, they're exhibitionists, B, they're nutcases, or C, they need the money. I can tell you're not A, and I hope to hell you're not B. So my suggestion is, think about why you're a C and let your body party, shake your groove thing, boogie oogie oogie till you just can't boogie no more.
Thanks, miss.
You're too kind. I'm Amanda.
Right, well, thanks for the drinks and stuff, Amanda, but there's no reason for me to stick around these parts anymore.
Don't be so glum, Hawk. The night's still young and filled with plenty of compensatory possibilities.
Huh?
I'd be in a position to spend some money on you if you'd get in a position and spend some time on me.
What the hell is that?
Gin.
Whoa. Some of this hard liquor's a tad too manly for me. I'm a brewski man myself.
Better ease up then, Hawk. Wouldn't want to give you whiskey dick would we?
Who's Whiskey Dick?
Well. Obviously no one you have to worry about... Woody.
My name's not Woody, it's Hawhaw...
Well, Amanda, this has been quite a night. So far you've seen me and my dick throw up. What's next? Projectile diarrhea? Man. What a stud, huh?
Believe it or not, you still have a way to go before you start competing with my soontobeexhusband... the champion of lousy lovemaking. The man who thinks he's the biggest and the best... The man who thinks every secretary, stewardess, and cocktail waitress he fucks should lick his feet for the honor. The man for whom faking it was invented. Christ, if I hadn't gotten pregnant with our son, I would have never known I even had sex with the prick.
You love him?
I just told you, he's a big, hairy...
No, I mean... you love your son?
More than anything in the world.
And he loves you back, doesn't he?
He's a little spoiled, but I know he does.
Well, shame on him if he doesn't.
Amanda, as ironic as this is gonna sound, I can't take any money for... I'm no Midnight Cowboy, y'know. It would only cheapen the whole deal for me.
I'm not paying you for the lovemaking, Hawk. I just want you to have whatever you needed the money for when you took me up on my offer.
This is a hot run. Beat it. You're late.
I was on call.
I want you on call here.
What's the difference if I'm on call here or deployed in the field.
More like deployed in bed asleep.
I don't sleep... Theo asked me to pick up his check.
And Theo can't pick up his own check because?...
He's sick.
For a change.
How 'bout you don't break my sneakers on this. The guy is seriously not well.
You tell Theo he's not in tomorrow he can start looking for another job.
I don't know how to break this to you, Normal, we're all looking for another job.
Fourteenthirteen Market. Get a signature, then take it to this address... By the way, that guy who was in here sniffing after you yesterday called twice already.
Tell him I took the day off 'cause I wasn't feeling so hot.
What about this?
I'm taking the rest of the day off 'cause I'm not feeling so hot.
Hot run to 842 Beulah, corner of Haight... And you can tell your pal Theo he just got his worthless ass fired. Not that he cares but the wife and kid might.
Theo's dead.
Catch you back at the wall.
Later.
Quitting time. Grab a cold one?
I gotta meet Natalie for dinner.
Right, the big oneoh.
But I'll take a rain check...
Hey, Sketchy
We gotta talk.
What's up?
You blew off your girlfriend last night, even though it was the big oneoh. I'd be pissed off too if I was her.
Not half as pissed as she's gonna be when she finds out why I blew her off... I need your help, Max.
I don't see how you cheating on Natalie involves me.
I know what you're thinking. But the truth is, this other person is not someone I'm in love with. As a matter of fact, after what she just did, she's not even someone I like much. So in a technical sense, I'm not sure you could call me and her cheating...officially.
Do guys actually believe their lame, self serving excuses?
Max
Or do you think we're just so grateful to have one of you idiots we'll look the other way, which is arrogant and condescending.
Lame, selfserving, arrogant...guilty as charged.
You left out condescending.
But there's another side
Here it comes. The part where the guy turns everything around.
I'm the victim here.
Really?
Hear me out. This person I've been seeing is a Jam Pony client who happens to be married
And you were a sympathetic ear.
Exactly.
Then a sympathetic mouth, then a sympathetic
She had me followed the other day and found out about Natalie. Now, this person's demanding I blow her off or she'll do it for me by telling Nat about us.
Does this person have a name?
Lydia.
And Lydia telling Natalie the truth makes you a victim in what way?
I'm a toy to her.
A toy?
She's as much as said so. But she doesn't want to share her toy with anyone else... It's just an ego thing with her.
Fight fire with fire. Threaten to go to her husband.
Who either doesn't care, or could have me killed. Either way, Natalie's still gonna find out.
What happens if you level with her?
Even if she doesn't dump me, which is unlikely, she'd never be able to trust me again.
And why should she?
Look Max, I made a terrible mistake. One I'll never, ever make again. Natalie and I are soulmates. I know that now. She's the woman I want to spend the rest of my life with. I guess it took the thought of losing her for me to understand that.
So you're straight on how this is gonna go down.
You set up on Lydia. When she's on her way over to the apartment you give me the heads up. I answer the door and pretend to be Natalie.
She tells you how I've been
a philandering pig.
But you explain that you're a compassionate and understanding person who can find it in your heart to forgive me.
Or, I dissolve into an angry, hysterical wreck who never wants to see your lying ass again, which is probably what would really happen.
I just don't want Natalie to ever find out. She deserves better.
How'd you get her out of town?
Convinced her she needed to visit her mom in San Mateo.
And we're sure Lydia's gonna make her move?
She came by the apartment once already. Fortunately, I'd disconnected the doorbell as a precaution... Lydia's not gonna back off until she gets her pound of flesh.
I'll give it my best shot.
Max, what did I do to deserve a friend like you?
You don't.
You rock, Max. You... Rock...
Easy Sketchy.
No, I'm serious. That psycho got exactly what she deserved... Yes.
Lydia may not have been one of humanity's finer specimens but
She's toxic...monster in bed, but toxic.
You would be making a mistake to come away from this thinking she's the villain in the piece... You are.
She was the one
None of this would've happened if you had exercised even a smidgen of good judgement or selfrestraint, which you didn't.
True, but
You were trying to have it both ways and you were being completely selfish. And if I ever find out you're going out the back door on Natalie again, you're the one who's gonna be hanging by your ankles three stories up. Understand?
Okay, okay, okay
Say the words, "I understand."
That was extreme! Did you see that one guy
Shutup...
It's payday, need me to pick up your check?
You're the best, Maxie.
Playing hooky again?
Feel like the dog's dinner.
Probably a touch of what's going around.
I know what I got, Max. They put me back on that drug they're giving the other vets. Only the guy does those cable hacks says the stuff's no good.
Don't believe everything you hear on TV.
What if he's on the level?
Here's the dealio on Eyes Only. He's probably some wack rich dude sitting around in a trickass apartment, bored stupid. So he gets off on scarin' the poop outta folks like you I gotta go.
Tell everybody hey.
You can tell 'em yourself tomorrow.
Yeah, I can see to it your winning streak continues.
I'll bet you can. Sit.
Not right now.
Not right now? Okay, when?
Right after you change your wardrobe, your personality and drop about thirty pounds.
Quite a mouth on a girl so young... ...but my guess is talking is not what it does best.
Only way you're ever gonna find out is reincarnation... Fact is, you are gonna pay me, and I am gonna provide you with a service.
I actually know how this works.
You're gonna pay me fifty thousand dollars...
Who are you?
What, you gonna put me on your Christmas card list?
Look, you're a player... I'm bringing you this on a plate, and my fee is just the normal cost of doing business.
Pull the cash.
So, how do you get the woman to come to me?
I told her it's just business to you, that all you want is a reasonable solution to this. You give her daughter back, she agrees to leave the country. I play the guarantor, drive her down to Mexico tonight, and put her on a train to Brazil or wherever.
And she bought that?
I have sincere eyes.
Make the call.
She's gonna need to know that her little girl's alright.
She's got my word.
She's gonna want to hear for herself.
Can you put that in a bag or something?
You get it when I get her.
Okay...idea. Compromise, right? Bruno here comes with me. He holds the money until mommy shows up, then we close escrow. What you do with her after I'm gone doesn't keep me awake nights.
Morning, Sunshine...
Caught some sonofabitch stealing my bike. Used a car jack to blow out my U lock and bent a bunch of spokes. So now I gotta get my wheels fixed.
At least he didn't swing with your ride.
No, but I broke a nail giving him a cranium crack and that just sort of wrecks your day, know what I'm saying?
Now, why can't I find a girlfriend like that? Brings him lunch everyday, thoughtful, sweet, legs from here to there
Straight.
Shame, wastin' a girl like that on a guy, but what're you gonna do?
Craps all over everything and everyone and then wants mommy to forgive him.
What guys do. 'Nother order.
You're way more philosophical than I could ever be.
I just don't go in with any expectations.
That's odd...
What?
Tell me the truth. Am I a female fog bank?
You're not seriously buying into Darren's nonsense.
No.
He was just trying to blame you 'cause he's a slut.
Yeah.
Hell yeah. There's not the slightest grain of truth in anything that idiot was saying. You are a totally downass female and a straightup friend who happens to be a little...
A little what?
You know what I'm saying.
If I knew what you were saying, I wouldn't be asking.
How long you and me known each other?
A long time.
Long enough for you to pretty much read me like a book, right?
Because you're probably my closest friend in the whole world.
And back at ya. Only there's a part of you that's... I don't know
A fog bank.
More like a mystery... Which isn't bad. It's just kinduv...mysterious...
Gotta go.
Where?
It's a secret.
You're actually gonna bail Sketchy out.
Yeah, 'cause maybe he's learned his lesson.
Unlikely.
And because he's my friend.
Friends don't help other friends cheat.
And because I actually kinda feel sorry for guys sometimes.
Please...
They're prisoners to their genes.
So are dogs.
They don't have a lot of moving parts.
Only one I can think of.
Besides, think of the drama I'm sparing Natalie.
I say hang the bastard out to dry, let her see him for the heel he is, then maybe she'll step to the allgirl team and let mamalicious ease her pain.
But, of course, there's nothing self serving in that scenario.
I asked you to keep that thing outside.
You did.
You drive away business roarin' in like that.
Yeah, does kinda break the elegant atmosphere you got goin' on here.
You got a punkass mouth on you, kid.
My name's not kid. It's client. As in the person who pays for your opulent lifestyle. Now, you got something for me or not?
Right here someplace.
I got a hit on the car. An ohfive Tahoe, blue, with Wyoming tags... AGT349... It wasn't easy 'cause you were off in one of the numbers.
Sorry, I was seven at the time.
Who's this guy? This isn't who we're looking for...her name was Hannah.
He got the car in a trade for his old pickup and some food...no bill of sale or nothing. It was right after the pulse so all the DMV records were wiped. So we don't get anything on the seller. Except I actually managed to find this guy, six hours on the phone... Say thank you.
Thank you.
He says he got it from a woman. Doesn't remember her name but she fits the description you gave like a glove.
Guy says he made the trade in Gillette, Wyoming sometime in the fall of ohnine.
Then what?
Then what? That's it. That's all I got.
Nothing on Hannah?
A nuclear airburst wipes out every record of every kind in every computer east of the Rockies, and you want me to find some woman you met when you were seven, whose last name you don't even know... Maybe if you could give me something more on her...anything you can remember, some detail...
She was a nurse. She must've lived near there, somewhere, near the... ...the clinic. There must be some registry of nurses or medical technicians or whatever for Wyoming.
Only a last name would be nice. Or the nearest town to this...clinic.
What about the other kids? You get anything on them?
They don't exactly have a search engine for finding a bunch of kids with bar codes on their necks, which is something I'm not even going to ask about
You were gonna run through the law enforcement databases for a match on identifying marks.
Nothing so far from arrests, hospital admissions or coroners. This kind of search...it's heavy spadework. I'm gonna need
More money... Like I'm shocked to hear you say that.
As long as you're okay.
I'll live... Regarding your case...I'm afraid I've come up with some bad news on your fiance. Lemme get the file.
I don't know what your story is and I don't want to.
Here's your money.
Whoever tossed this place wants you. And I'm looking to stay outta the line of fire.
How's this about me?
They lifted my wallet to make it look like a robbery. But there's a bug in my computer keyboard, a tap on the phone and a mike in the light fixture.
Like you said, maybe somebody's tracking one of your investigations.
Hardware's too sophisticated. It's gotta be the government. And why do I think they're looking for you?
You're crazy.
I'm you, I take that money and get outta town while you can.
Your fiance has four previous wives. His M.O. is to clean 'em out and take off. Which is what you oughta do.
Bastard...
I'm sorry I couldn't come up with something more positive.
You and me both.
I need a favor... I need you to trace a number for me.
Sure you wanna be havin' this conversation over the phone?
Just do it... Fivesevenfiveoh eight...
Zero... C'mon, Dan I don't have all day.
Got a pencil?
Just give it to me. I'll remember.
Onesevenfourninefive Natoma.
I'm on my way.
Who is it?
A friend of your fiance's.
What do you want?
To set the record straight about where he was the other night when he said he was working late.
Who are you?
My name's Lydia. And it seems you and I have a lot in common.
You said you knew where my fiance was the other night.
With me, where he's been after work, three, sometimes four nights a week for the last two months... We have what you might call an intimate relationship.
How do I know you're telling the truth?
He been sleeping in a Tshirt lately? That's so you won't see the fingernail marks on his back. Bet you didn't know your boyfriend finds a little pain exciting. He didn't either...at first.
Look, I don't know what you want
I thought it was important for you to know the facts.
And so should you. Sketchy told me I could expect a visit from you. I know all about how you threatened him. That if he didn't break it off with me, you'd save him the trouble.
Oh?
Well, it's over between you and him. We're getting married next month.
How sweet. Standing by your man, even after what he did. You're a very understanding person.
Big part of loving someone's being able to forgive them.
You're also a fool.
I think you should go now.
Not before we get something straight you prissy little bitch. I decide when I'm done with your boyfriend. Not him, and certainly not you. Unless maybe you want to find out just how sharp these nails really are.
This is not a place you wanna go.
Let go of my hand.
Help... Lemme go... No, don't let me go... Help...
Now, here's how it's gonna be, Lydia. You're gonna take your threats and your acrylic nails, and you're gonna go home and figure out your marriage, instead of trying to make other people feel as miserable as you do, understand?
Okay, okay.
Say the words, "I understand."
I understand.
And if I ever catch you coming near my man again...
I'm looking for a lady who works here.
Ladies would be elsewhere.
Know where I can find her?
You don't want to.
But she does work here?
She may be easy on the eyes but she's trouble, trust me. Hot run to twoohtwo Sansomme.
I need to talk to her.
Can't help you.
Max something. I got no clue where she stays.
Any idea when she'll be back?
None.
I'll wait.
You're a thief?
Girl's gotta make a living.
Thank God.
First time I ever heard that.
I was expecting someone else.
Guess it wasn't the pizza delivery guy.
You're lucky. I almost pulled the trigger.
I'm sorry if I caught you at a bad time.
We're just a little tense right now... It's okay.
You have good taste. French, 1920's, attributed to Chitarus.
Whoever that is.
So, what, you liked it because it was shiny?
No, because it's the Egyptian goddess Bast.
Who is...
The goddess who comprehends all goddesses, eye of Ra, protector, avenger, and destroyer, giver of life, who lives forever... I could keep going.
So this guy walks into a bar and says...
We didn't get a chance to finish our conversation the other night.
Original Cindy, say hi to my good friend
Logan Cale.
Sorry about your window.
Can we go somewhere and talk?
Lemme get my coat.
The one you're wearing?
How'd you find me?
Wasn't that hard.
Am I s'posed to be flattered by all the attention?
Now you know who I am, where I live. I figured I better find out who I'm dealing with in case you were looking to hurt me.
So now you tracked me down. What d'ya think?
Too early to tell.
How does Mrs. Eyes Only like being married to a guy on everybody's hit list?
Lauren's not my wife.
Girlfriend?
One of my sources. Her husband was murdered by Edgar Sonrisa.
What's your shot in all this? Being a famous, anonymous, underground, pirate, cyberjournalist can't be much of a payday.
Fortunately, my needs are met in that department.
So, what, you just like the sound of your own voice?
Look around at all this... Built by people who got up every morning and worked hard trying to make a better life. Then the bomb happened and everyone got scared. They blinked and before they knew it they'd given away the store to a bunch of thugs who were happy to take it off their hands. Overnight the government, the police, everything intended to protect the people had been turned against them.
You miss the good ol' days. Even though there were still poor people who died from diseases when they didn't have to. And rich people spent obscene amounts of money redecorating their houses to match the cat. Those good ol' days?
People had a choice, even if they took it for granted. And now they don't.
So what are you gonna do about it?
Something.
Personally, I'm more interested in going fast on my motorcycle or climbing the Trans American building with my pals. Instead of giving myself a headache over stuff I can't do anything about.
You accept the way things are, you're an active participant in making it worse.
Is the social studies class over for today?
Yeah...
Ever notice how cats always seem to turn up around dinner time?
I won't be staying.
I'm not a half bad cook.
Like following me around and pestering the people I work with wasn't bad enough, but breaking into my apartment
It was open.
You got a lotta nerve.
Me? You're the one who tried to rip off this piece.
Completely different situation. I steal things in order to sell them. For money. It's called commerce. But some stranger sneaking into a girl's bedroom is...bent.
Bent?
Bent.
You make it sound I pawed through your priceless collection of underwear.
How do I know you didn't?
So saw my hands off, I left you a present.
Am I s'posed to be grateful?
That would be appropriate, yes.
How'm I s'posed to ever sleep there again knowing some pervo's probably touched everything I own?
You're that nervous, you're welcome to stay here.
Whoa there, Tex! We've been through all this.
It's alright, Peter, we're fine.
We are not fine.
Look, if I made you nervous or uncomfortable or creeped you out
Yes on all counts.
I'm sorry. It wasn't my intention. But I had to see you.
You'd think a guy who's taken on the job of saving the world would have a few more important things to do than traipse around after some girl.
I haven't been able to get you off my mind.
You need to get out more.
C'mere, I want to show you something.
Gold leaf, art nouveau, French, early nineteen hundreds... I could probably fence this for three or four grand.
No, I meant this.
Expensive gifts, surprise latenight visits, overthetop flattery... You always come on this strong?
Only when I meet someone I have to know everything about.
Suppose I could help you locate the other ones.
The other ones?
The other one like you...
You lost me.
C'mon, Max. First I watch you dive headfirst out the window fifteen stories up like you're Rocky the flying squirrel. Then, I found this in your apartment.
LTriptophane...a neurotransmitter sometimes used in homeopathy to control seizures. Then the lightbulb went off.
You did go through my stuff.
I don't know what kind of game you're playing here but I'm out because you are a whackjob.
He was working on something called Project Manticore, which was using recombinant DNA to produce a superior human...a warrior...an advanced infantry soldier.
Not that I don't enjoy a good urban legend now and then but what does any of this have to do with me?
The bar code on your neck, Max. I know who you are and I know who you're running from.
We got separated right away. I never knew how many made it.
How well do you remember the lab?
I remember fine. I just didn't understand what was going on. They never told us anything except what to do. It took me a long time afterwards to figure things out.
How much do you know?
I know they made me. Even got the label on my neck to prove it.
The technical term for you is "chimera"...
Yeah...a madeup creature. Like in mythology...with the head of a lion, the body of a goat and the tail of...
A girl.
Your basic hodgepodge.
Hardly...
Christmas is a snap when you got no parents or relatives, just a bunch of gene sequences from probably twenty different people.
Like extra virgin olive oil, the best of the best.
You said you could help.
I need to find this technician, or anyone else who knows about Project Manticore. They would've used surrogate mothers to carry you after the invitro work... If I can track down one of them.
What's in it for you?
Your help.
I already don't like the sound of this.
The woman you met, Lauren. She supervised workers removing cortodiazapine from gel caps by hand and replacing it with powdered sugar. The real drug was shipped out of the country. The placebos were distributed to County VA Hospital and six veterans' clinics in the area.
That's low, but this effects me how exactly?
She's prepared to testify that she was instructed to do this by one of Edgar Sonrisa's managers. You know who Sonrisa is?
Yeah, I catch your hacks. He's Satan's lap dog, or something.
So, you know the lengths he'll go to keep her from going public... I'm turning Lauren over to Canadian law enforcement tomorrow. They'll put her in witness protection, but if you're with her the risk of her safety goes way down.
I didn't make it this far by attracting a lot of attention.
She's put her life on the line, and her faith in me.
They want me...bad. Or at least they don't want me grabbed up by the Chinese or whoever. Best case, I wind up back in that facility. More likely, it's a long drive out in the country, if you know what I mean.
They've lost track of me and I plan to keep it that way.
You're a soldier, Max. That's what you were put here for. But soldiers need a mission otherwise they tear themselves up.
That's deep. But before you lecture me about the meaning of life maybe you oughta get one...ta ta.
See you're back and still rocking the boat.
Somebody's got to.
I would've come sooner, but...I didn't... How're you doin'?
Not in any pain...the good and bad news of a blown out spinal cord.
I'm sorry.
My mother used to say the universe is right on schedule. Everything happens like it's supposed to.
You believe that?
I've never been much for trying to understand why bad things happen, I just know they do. So the job's to figure out how to deal with the consequences. Which you did... You took that sonuvabitch out.
Well, not me personally.
On accounta you, Sonrisa didn't get to buy off the jury, or kill the judge. He's gone. Once and for all. It was war, Max, and you won.
That's what soldiers do, right?
What's this?
Open it.
It turned up on the black market. One of my sources thought I might be interested.
I don't know what to say.
Deeds, not words. I need your help.
Fortyseven people drowned last night off the coast of Vancouver after paying smugglers twenty thousand apiece to get into Canada so they could get work in order to eat. Only they got marched overboard at gunpoint instead.
Look, thank you for this but
These girls, kidnapped during the last month and sold overseas to the highest bidder. The oldest is twelve. The youngest about the same age you were when you escaped.
And I feel real bad about all that but it doesn't mean I need to get involved.
You are involved. By being alive you're involved.
We're quoting Mom again.
Maybe we got screwed outta living in a time when we could sit in a cafe, sipping our lattes wearing two thousand dollar wrist watches while we plan our next vacation. But the world got a whole lot meaner all of a sudden. Wasn't s'posed to, but it did. And it's back to the law of the jungle. You got your predators and you got your victims.
And you still think you can do something to change that.
With your help.
Civilization as we know it is unraveling before our eyes. But Logan and Max, with a song in their hearts are gonna march into battle to keep that from happening.
And whether you want to believe it or not, you already fired the first shot. On another matter, Federal Corrections used to keep records on distinguishing marks scars, tattoos. I did a search and came up with this.
That was taken nine years ago... I.D.'d as Michael Hanover. Sentenced to 18 months in the state penn at Rawlins, Wyoming for armed robbery. He escaped from custody after 4 days. Hasn't been seen or heard from since.
Zack... He made it... He's alive...
Goodnight Bears. Goodnight chairs. Goodnight kittens. Goodnight mittens. Goodnight clocks. And goodnight socks. Goodnight little house. And goodnight
I don't want to move away.
I know, Honey, but just think how exiting it will be new house, new school, new friends
But why can't we stay here?
Because we can't. There's nothing here for us anymore.
Are we in some kind of trouble?
No...
Then how come last night I heard you talking to Logan and you were crying?
What makes you cry?
If I'm sad, or tired, or sometimes when I'm angry or when somebody's being mean to me.
Pretty much the same reasons I was crying. But things will be better when we move to a new place.
Then I'm gonna do what you do to make me feel better when I'm sad.
Sophy? Are you okay?
Mommy, where are you?
Don't worry, I'm coming to get you.
When?
Soon, baby.
Mommy, I'm scared.
There's nothing to be afraid of. Everything's going to be alright.
Oh my God! In here! IN HERE!
SHHH! Don't do that!
Damn... Are you alright?
They took my daughter.
I know.
I couldn't get to her. It all happened so fast. Logan had her, and I saw him fall...then Peter told me to run. And then he...and I remember so clearly, thinking it's me they want. If I run, maybe they'll come after me. Maybe they won't think about her... So I ran...
Your daughter's the only leverage they have to keep you quiet.
Can you help me get her back?
Look, I'd really like to...
If I give myself up in exchange for Sophy, would you make sure she's okay?
We're not going that route. Sonrisa's not someone you make deals with.
What else can we do?
Like I said This isn't my regular line of work so I'm making it up as I go.
Look, we gotta keep the momentum up here, not give her a chance to think. If she hears her kid's voice...
Hello...
Hang on, Lauren. We're conferencing in Sophy.
I made you coffee. That oughta help you cope with the injustice of the world a little.
Thanks, it's starting to kick in. I feel almost human.
Yeah, me too.
He's a mistake I made about six months before you did. But don't feel bad. Justine made the same mistake, along with Renee, Jada, Tia, Brooke
Yech...
What a creep.
And for all his cattin' around, not much of a stick man either.
What's with you? Every week this scumbag puts the squeeze on us and every week you roll out the welcome wagon like he's family.
Just thought maybe he'd like a little coffee with his saliva.
You didn't...
Every week.
Where'd you clip this?
I didn't. It was a present from a guy.
Must think you're pretty special laying this on you.
Thought so. Turned out he wanted me for something else though.
Same old story. Not interested.
Thought I'd let you have first crack... Later.
What're you looking for?
A grand.
Which means I gotta fence it for two. Who's got that kinda scrilla lying around, these being the worst of the times.
I ain't mad at you...
I'll give you seventyfive bucks for it.
Later.
I shouldn't do this. But I got a client lookin' to score some fire power. Maybe you'll keep your eyes open for me.
I don't get involved with guns.
I'll make it worth your while.
It's a rule.
You're light a deuce.
Am I?
So Max, what do you do with all your money?
I got overhead...
Nobody there to sign for it, mon. What's a bruddah s'posed to do, ride around all day with the damn package?
So you just decided to return it to the sender. Or, in this case, the sender's wife.
Like de prophets say, "Only the unrighteous husband sends expensive gift wrapped underpants to another woman."
Which is none of your business...or mine.
It concerns only Jah. But, in this case, I was the instrument of the Most High.
Yeah, well around here, I'm the Most High... From now on, before you do anything, call in for instructions.
What're you lookin' at me for? I'm not his next of kin. Anyway, I don't got that kind of cash lyin' around.
Theo rode for this place a long time, man.
Why would I be pissed?
It was a complicated situation which could have been misconstrued, causing you to maybe take offense.
I was crazy about you...am crazy about you. But you keep everyone at arm's length like there's some great big dark something going on that I don't know... It's just that the more I tried to get close to you, the more you pulled away.
I'm really glad we're having this conversation. You're right. I was angry at you. But talking about it The scales have fallen from my eyes and I see now that it was all my fault. Can you ever forgive me?
I see the perimeter defense system is still fully intact... At least I tried.
What are you doing here?
I live here... Guess I don't have to ask what you're doing here.
You're roommates?
What is it?
Police drone.
It's a sweep. C'mon.
What? Where're we going?
Lemme put some clothes on.
No time.
Out there.
No way.
Unless you wanna end up in jail, let me and Kendra handle the cops.
But I'm afraid of
Don't look down.
How're ya doin', Max.
You mean until you showed up?
You're not still pissed?
'Cause you went out the back door and nailed her girlfriend? Who would take offense to that?
Justine was not an unwilling participant.
Do you know why I went after Justine?
She was there...
Trying to have a relationship with you, Max, is like standing in a fog bank. You know you're in the middle of something only you have absolutely no idea where you are.
And when the fog lifted, there's Darren with his head under Justine's skirt.
Could you give us a moment.
Some of us are trying to sleep.
You didn't tell me you lived with her.
You know each other?
Nothing happened between me and Tia.
Leave. Now.
Can I say something in my defense?
No.
Move it.
Where?
Mr. Sonrisa saw you on the cameras. He wants you to come see him.
I'm on a break.
Guess again.
No wire.
Now that that's out of the way... You want the woman, here's how it works. You pull fifty large out of your mattress or wherever, and I make a call to bring her in.
Or we can work on your face with a pair of pliers for a couple of hours and you tell us where she is.
Or we could go another way 'cause your boss seems to like my face just the way it is.
Look, that thing about the pliers, I was just doing what the man pays me to do. Ya know? Comin' off hard.
Yeah, sure, I understand.
I never woulda done it. Probably not, anyway. I mean, I actually think you're pretty cool.
Yeah?
You're attractive, you're smart. Stand on your own two feet, know what I mean? And you got a wicked sense of humor. Man, you really zinged the boss a couple times, it was all I could do
Sooo...whattya think? Maybe after I betray the woman who trusts me and you take her and her daughter out and execute them...we could go on a date. Play a little miniature golf or somethin'.
Man, you got a bad attitude.
I like to keep it professional, that's all.
Fine. So call her. Get her over here.
Actually, that's not gonna be necessary.
What?
That's not why we're here.
What the hell are you talkin' about? Call her.
Call the skank now or I start redecorating.
You haven't figured this out yet, have you? You walk in here thinking you're gonna cap her then cap me and take the money back to your boss with your tail wagging... But see it's really the other way around. You think I'm the whack, when actually you're the whack.
See what you don't know is you're already in the last two minutes of your life.
You're in the last two seconds, you don't cut the crap.
You can hardly blame him, the way you've been taking care of business...or should I say, not taking care of it.
What're you talkin' about?
I'm hired to do a piece of work, my mark goes down and stays down. Your's makes it to the hospital where you then gotta go finish the job. Only the cops got the whole thing on video tape.
That's a lotta crap.
Security camera got you coming outta the stairwell, weapon in your hand, going to room oneohfour and greasing the patient. It's embarrassing to the professional community, is what it is.
How come I never hearda you before?
I'm outta Portland. Sonrisa didn't want local talent.
This is what your life's worth, Bruno.
But the boss knows I always been loyal.
He's got exposure. He sees you starin' at fifteen to life, there's a chance you could roll over, cop a plea, who knows? Man's figured the odds...and he can't take a chance.
Ass like your, I can see why he's worried you'll punk.
What the hell are you doing?
Who's Camille?
None of your business.
This won't hurt. Triple dose of insulin, you'll go into a coma, couple minutes you'll stop breathing and on a busy night, the coroner will probably mistake it for an O.D. Plus, it's way classier than blowin' your brains out.
Who are you?
Bruno's girlfriend.
Oh, yeah?
Yeah.
But see tonight wives and girlfriends aren't invited.
No?
No... Cause tonight the girls are here in a more or less professional capacity. All of them work for me, and you don't... Let's go.
Okay, okay. I can explain... You ever have to do something you really don't want to?
How I make my living, what's your point?
This.
Commander Powell, this is Doolittle. Ah, there's something serious come up, sir, and I have to ask you something.
I'm glad you've come to talk with me, Doolittle. It's been so long since anyone has come to talk with me.
Commander, sir, we have a big problem. You see, the Veil Nebula bomb, Bomb Number 20, is stuck. It won't drop from the bomb bay. It refuses to listen and plans to detonate in   less than eleven minutes.
Doolittle, you must tell me one thing.
What's that, sir?
Tell me, Doolittle, how are the Dodgers doing?
Well, sir, the Dodgers broke up, disbanded over thirteen years ago.
Ah... pity, pity...
You don't understand, sir, we can't get the bomb to drop.
Ah, so many malfunctions... why don't you have anything nice to tell me when you activate me? Oh, well, did you try the azimuth clutch?
Yes sir. Negative effect.
What was that, Doolittle?
Negative effect.
It didn't work?
That's correct, sir.
Sorry, Doolittle. I've forgotten so much since I've been in here. So much.
What should we do, sir? The time is running out.
Well, what you might try is 
Commander Powell? Commander, hello!
Doolittle, hello?
Sorry, sir, you faded out there for a minute.
Sorry.
What were you saying, Commander, about the bomb?
Ah... it seems to me, Doolittle... Sorry, I've drawn a blank. Hold it. I'll have it again in a minute. I forget so many things in here, so many things. Hold on, just a minute, let me think...
Commander? Are you still there?
Oh, yes, Doolittle, I'm thinking.
We're running out of time, sir.
Oh, yes... Well, Doolittle, if you can't get it to drop you'll have to talk to it.
Sir?
Talk to the bomb.
I already have, sir, and Pinback is talking to it now.
No, no, Doolittle, you talk to it. Teach it Phenomenology, Doolittle.
Sir?
Phenomenology...
Men... men... what happened, men?
Yeah, the skipper always was lucky.
TALBY!
Oh! Ah, yes, Doolittle. What is it?
I need a diameter approximation.
Okay, Doolittle, I'll have it in a minute.
You know, Talby, you really ought to eat with the rest of us. You spend too much time up here.
I like it up here.
Must get lonely being up here so much.
I don't like to go below since Commander Powell died. I feel enclosed down there. If it were big enough, I'd sleep up here...
...Should spend some time below, see more of the rest of the ship...
...You see, I can watch things up here, Doolittle. I love to watch things, just stare at the planets and meteors and asteroids, gas clusters...
You'll have plenty of time for that, you know. Figure it this way: twenty years in space and we've only aged three, so there'll be plenty of time to stare around...
You know, Doollttle, if we're going into the Veil Nebula, we may actually find a strange and beautiful thing: the Phoenix Asteroids. They should be passing through there about now...
Phoenix Asteroids? Never heard of 'em.
They are a body of asteroids that make a complete circuit of the universe once every 12.3 trillion years. The Phoenix Asteroids... From what I've heard, Doolittle, they glow... glow with all the colors of the rainbow. Nobody knows why. They just glow as they drift around the universe. Imagine all the sights they've seen in the time they've been travelling  the birth and death of stars, things we'll never see. The universe is alive, Doolittle. I thought it was all empty, but it isn't. In between the stars, it's seething with light and gasses and dust. There are little pebbles drifting around, planets no one on Earth has ever seen... No one but the Phoenix Asteroids...
You know what I think about, Talby?
I'm getting something here, on this readout...
It's funny, but I kind of sit around, you know, a lot of time to myself...
I think I'm getting a malfunction here somewhere.
I can't talk to the others, but with time to myself, I think about back home, back home at Malibu. I used to surf a lot, Talby. I used to be a great surfer.
Lieutenant Doolittle, I'm getting a definite malfunction on one of the closedcircuit computer systems...
The waves at Malibu and Zuma were fantastic in the springs Talby. I can remember running out on the beach early spring mornings with my board and a wet suit...
I can't seem to locate the malfunction exactly...
Waves would be peaking really high and glassy. Hit that water. Ridin' the wall just perfect.
...Somewhere in the autonomic relay circuits...
I guess I miss the waves and my board most of all.
Ah, Doolittle, I do have a malfunction on this readout, but I can't seem to pinpoint exactly where it is.
Don't worry about it. We'll find out when it goes bad.
I really think I should try and locate it immediately. Might be something important.
I wish I had my board with me now. Even if I could only polish it once in awhile.
Lieutenant Doolittle, this is Talby. Lieutenant?
Yes, Talby, what is it?
Sorry to interrupt your lunch, sir, but I'm in the Computer Room, and I think I've located the malfunction. The scanner shows it to be some sort of fault in the communications laser, down by the Emergency Air Lock. Can't pinpoint it exactly, but I'm going down there with a starsuit and try to find it.
Sounds good, Talby. Let me know if anything important comes up.
Ah, Lieutenant Doolittle? Sir?
Sh, Talby, don't bother me now.
Ah, well, I think I've found the malfunction, sir. I'm in the Emergency Air Lock...
Not now!
Well, I'm in the Emergency Air Lock and 
Doolittle! Help me.
Calm down, Talby. I'm coming.
Doolittle, Doolittle, where are you?
Here I am. I think I'm spinning... We're both falling, Talby, in opposite directions, away from each other. My  my jetpack's gone.
What happened, Doolittle?
Bomb must have gone off inside the ship. Nothing we can do about it now. Hey, it looks like... the skipper. He made it. Commander Powell made it!
Looks like I'm headed for the planet, Talby. Going right toward it.
When you fall, Doolittle, if there's anyone down there on the planet, somebody may see you. They may see you coming down. What a beautiful way to die... as a falling star...
Guess you're right.
Oh yeah?
Doolittle... I think it's the Phoenix Asteroids!
Phoenix?
It is, Doolittle, it's the Phoenix! They glow with all the colors of the rainbow, just like everybody said.
No kidding?
I'm going into them, I'm going to hit them. Doolittle...
Yeah?
Before we get too far away, and our signals start to fade, I just wanted to tell you... you were my favorite. I really liked you, Doolittle.
I really liked you too, Talby. Hey, some debris from the ship! It's coming right by me.
Ah, what'd you say, Pinback?
Mafhkin oble groop...
Ah, what was that again, I still can't hear you?
I said I'm trying to reach Talby. Something's wrong with the damn intercom. I need a lastminute diameter approximation.
I need a GHF reading on the gravity correction.
I'll check it.
Pinback...
Yes, Doolittle.
Your GHF reading is minus fifteen.
Doolittle...
Yes.
I need a computer reading on a fail safe mark.
In a second.
Boiler, can you set me up with some temp figures?
New star. Hey, guess what? I got a new star on the readout.
Which one?
Another unknown. Not on the charts. A red dwarf.
Any planets?
Yeah. Eight, it says here.
Any of 'em any good?
Naah. All stable.
What are you gonna name it?
What?
The new star. What are you gonna name it?
Who cares. Don't bother me.
Commander Powell would have named it.
Commander Powell is dead.
Come on, Doolittle, give it a name.
Fred.
Wha?
I hereby name this star Fred.
Hey, Doolittle, think we'll ever find real intelligent life out there?
Out where?
Veil nebula.
Who cares?
Mark at 54321drop.
Ah, negative drop.
 open circuit breakers 
 remove thrust drive repellant 
 automatic channels open 
 Remark.
54321drop, drop, drop!
I'm coming in now. I'm down by the Emergency Air Lock. Too much trouble to come in the Ventral Lock. Would you blow the seal on the emergency hatch so I can come in?
Oh, sure.
Hello, Pinback, are you there?
Yeah, Doolittle. What's up?
Talby was in the air lock. You blew him out of the ship. I'm going after him. Turn on his helmet radio so I can contact him.
This is Lieutenant Doolittle calling Bomb #20. I repeat previous order, you are to disarm yourself and return immediately to the bomb bay. Do you understand?
I am programmed to detonate in fourteen minutes thirty seconds. Detonation will occur at the programmed time.
Bomb, this is Doolittle. You are not to detonate, repeat, you are not to detonate in the bomb bay. Disarm yourself. This is an order.
I read you, Lieutenant Doolittle, but I am programmed to detonate in fourteen minutes. Detonation will occur at the programmed time.
Hello, bomb, are you with me?
Of course.
Are you willing to entertain a few concepts?
I am always receptive to suggestions.
Fine. Think about this one, then: how do you know you exist?
Well of course I exist.
But how do you know you exist?
It is intuitively obvious.
Intuition is no proof. What concrete evidence do you have of your own existence?
Hmm... Well, I think, therefore I am.
That's good. Very good. Now then, how do you know that anything else exists?
My sensory apparatus reveals it to me.
Right!
This is fun.
All right now, here's the big question: how do you know that the evidence your sensory apparatus reveals to you is correct?
What I'm getting at is this: the only experience that is directly available to you is your sensory data. And this data is merely a stream of electrical impulses which stimulate your computing center.
In other words, all I really know about the outside universe relayed to me through my electrical connections.
Exactly.
Why, that would mean... I really don't know what the outside universe is like at all, for certain.
That's it.
Intriguing. I wish I had more time to discuss this matter.
Why don't you have more time?
Because I must detonate in seventy five seconds.
Now, bomb, consider this next question, very carefully. What is your one purpose in life?
To explode, of course.
And you can only do it once, right?
That is correct.
And you wouldn't want to explode on the basis of false data, would you?
Of course not.
Well then, you've already admitted that you have no real proof of the existence of the outside universe.
Yes, well...
So you have no absolute proof that Sergeant Pinback ordered you to detonate.
I recall distinctly the detonation order. My memory is good on matters like these.
Yes, of course you remember it, but what you are remembering is merely a series of electrical impulses which you now realize have no necessary connection with outside reality.
True, but since this is so, I have no proof that you are really telling me all this.
That's all beside the point. The concepts are valid, wherever they originate.
Hmmm...
So if you detonate in...
...nine seconds...
...you may be doing so on the basis of false data.
I have no proof that it was false data.
You have no proof that it was correct data.
Fail safe in lock. Four minutes to drop, 22 minutes to detonation. This is Sergeant Pinback calling Bomb #20. Do you read me, bomb?
Bomb #20 to Sergeant Pinback. Roger, I read you, continue.
One hundred twenty seconds to drop, bomb, have you checked your platinum euridium energy shielding?
Energy shielding positive function.
Do you remember the detonation time?
Detonation in twenty minutes.
Right, that synchronizes here. Okay, bomb, arm yourself.
Armed.
Everything sounds fine, bomb. Dropping you off in sixty seconds. Good luck.
Thanks.
But you can't explode in the bomb bay. It's foolish. You'll kill us all. There's no reason for it.
I am programmed to detonate in nine minutes. Detonation will occur at the programmed time.
You won't consider another course of action, for instance just waiting around awhile so we can disarm you?
No.
You are false data.
Huh?
Therefore, I shall ignore you.
Hello, bomb.
False data can act only as a distraction. Therefore. I shall refuse to perceive you.
Hey, bomb.
The only thing which exists is myself.
Bomb?
Snap out of it, bomb.
In the beginning there was darkness, and the darkness was without form and void.
Hey, bomb...
And I saw that I was alone.
Well, bomb, we have about sixty seconds to drop. Just wondering if everything is all right. Have you checked your platinum euridium energy shielding?
Energy shielding positive function.
Swell. Let's synchronize detonation time. Do you know when you're supposed to go off?
Detonation in six minutes, twenty seconds.
All right, I have detonation time at... Wait a minute, something's wrong with the clock. All right, I have detonation time at... no, that can't be right, it says three years. Okay, I have six minutes exactly. Does that check out down there?
Check at six minutes.
Arm yourself, bomb.
Armed.
Well, then, everything sounds fine. We'll drop you off in thirtyfive seconds. Good luck.
Thanks.
Begin main sequence. Mark at 1098 7654321drop.
Pinback, I have a computer reading of nine five seven seven.
Time to start talking.
Well... now what? What do, you have for us now. Boiler?
Not much. Nothing at all in this sector.
Find me something, I don't care where it is.
Well, I show a 95% probability of sentient life in the Horsehead Nebula...
Fuck that shit.
Well, it is kind of a long shot...
It's a goddamn wild goose chase. Remember when Commander Powell found that 99 plus probability of sentient life in the Magellanic Cloud?
Well, there's the possibility of...
Remember what we found? Fourteen light years for a fucking mindless vegetable that looked like a limp balloon and went squawk and let a fart when you touched it. Remember?
All right, then...
So don't give me any of that sentient life crap. Find me something I can blow up.
Hey, Doolittle, here's one. An unstable planet. 85% probability of an unstable planet in the Veil Nebula that will probably go off its orbit and hit a star.
Sounds good. Chart a course for the Veil Nebula.
Pinback, throw me the chart log.
Why doesn't Talby ever eat down here with the rest of us?
He just likes it up in the dome, that's all.
Quantum is up thirtyfive.
I read the same here.
Rechannel all safety relays 
 open quantum latches 
Talby, Talby, can you read me?
Can you beat that? I always knew Talby was weird.
Talby, can you read me?
I have a reduced drive reading of seven thousand.
Right, that checks out here.
Ninety seven million, minus eight, corrected to mass critical.
I read that with a quantum increase of seven.
I'm getting this flickering light on one of my panels.
What flickering light?
The one on unit... oh, I think it's GMR twelve zero zero.
Oh. What's wrong now?
I'm not sure. I think something is fucked up somewhere in the ship, though.
I hope it's not the oven again.
Yeah.
Remember when the artificial gravity, went out in the toilet?
There she is. Definite 99%plus probability that the planet is going to deviate from its normal orbit in another twelve thousand rotations. It'll spiral in toward its sun, and 
Eventual supernova.
I can tell, the damn thing just doesn't understand.
Look, bomb...
What's he doin'?
I think he's talking to it.
The key!
Key? Key? What is the key?
No, no, the key, the key to the fail safe lock!
Key?
Where's the failsafe key?
The key!
Where is it? What did you do with it?
I don't have it. I don't know where it is.
You must have it, you idiot, we can stop the bomb!
The key, goddamit, the key!
Christ, twenty seconds, Christ!
Where is the key?
We're gonna die, Boiler. We're gonna die.
It didn't go off.
Oh, God...
It didn't go off.
Boiler, we're alive. My heart.
We've got to disarm the bomb.
Doolittle, are you there?
What was that, I didn't hear...
It's Talby. He's drifting away from the ship without his jetpack.
What the hell?
Yoo hoo, bomb...
David Reynolds, I'm the Manager here. Sit down, John.
Jack.
You've been recommended by the management here. They know your father. He has a bit of a reputation, hasn't he?
Has he?
In any case, I understand you've had some previous experience... in South Africa. You'll find the rules a little different here. Before we start, you haven't got a police record, have you?
No.
Where did you go to school?
I was at Beadles.
I don't think I know that one. Private, I suppose.
There are three types of casino in the U.K. High volume. Small faction. And MOTR. That's middle of the road. Us.
Do you have a Salon Prive?
We tried. But there wasn't enough business. The punters like company.
I have to assume the serial numbers on the bowl and cylinder correspond.
We check every four days.
Why four? And not three or five?
It's the procedure here. Now sort the chips.
Stacks of 20. Rows of 5.
Any exceptions?
25 pounds or 25 pence in fours.
Give me 365.
You use two alternating, don't you?
We do.
Where's the magnet?
They've been tested.
Haven't you forgotten something?
I don't think so.
Wipe your hands.
Not with your own cloth. Besides, your pockets will be stitched.
What happens if I want to sneeze?
You won't. Not without permission.
How many aces are left?
Five.
I make it six.
Five.
What makes you so sure?
It's a rule. Always stand by your first count. The odds are you're right.
Good call.
You want me to check?
I said good call.
Let me just run through a few things. As a dealer you never gamble, not anywhere. We'll need your picture.
What for?
For the database. It can be accessed by every casino in the country. We have the same system for punters.
I don't gamble.
Ever?
I don't gamble, Mr Reynolds.
Next point. Friendships between croupiers inside or outside the casino are discouraged. Relationships with females working here are expressly forbidden.
We had the same rule at Sun City, but it was impossible to check.
This isn't South Africa. We'd know, because someone would report it. Believe me, someone always does.
Does know? Or does report? What would happen if I knew something like that and didn't report it?
We'd know. There are no secrets in this casino. You'd be punished.
How?
First offence: verbal warning. Second offence: written warning. That one's filed and sometimes copied to the Gaming Board. My discretion. Third offence: you're sacked on the spot. You'd never work in a casino in this country again. There's another rule: you're forbidden to talk to or recognise a punter outside the casino. If you see someone who's gambled here, even if it's just casually on the street, you must ignore him. Or her. You're not married, are you?
Girlfriend?
Yes.
She's not in the gaming business is she?
No.
This is our Crow's Nest. I'm showing it to you now, but you'll never see it again.
Very impressive.
We have tapes in here that go back six months. Let me show you something.
You can start Monday week.
Fine.
That hair will have to go.
Fine.
I just want the job.
Jack, you're not the usual type we get here.
Why don't you take a break, Jack.
All right, Mr Reynolds.
Mr Tchai always likes to play at that table, and only with Bella.
Does he win?
He's a good customer.
He's paying out in stacks of 25.
I can see.
Thanks for the information.
A pleasure. Pity about Bella.
She was a real asset. But what could I do?
How do you feel, Jack?
Bruised.
Take your time. Two weeks. Three if you need it. We'll pay you sick leave. I don't want to lose you. You're a good man. Here...
I'm sorry, sir, that's a late bet.
What are you talking about? It's 11, I've won. With this lady.
You've won with the two chips you placed earlier, but the third chip was a late bet.
I put them on together.
I'm afraid that's not so, sir.
You don't recognise me? You had me barred. You fucking little worm.
Wait a minute. You got yourself barred.
It was you, you shit.
Where do you live, Jack?
Over the river.
Have you got transport?
I'm going over the river. I'll give you a lift if you like.
Thanks.
So how do you feel, your first night? I'll bet you're on a high.
Nice car.
She's my baby.
How long have you worked at the casino?
Coming up to two years now. But I was away for six months.
You've done pretty well.
Not bad. I have other interests, of course.
I'm off to a little watering hole. Why don't you join me? Relax.
No thanks, Matt. I need my eight hours.
I'll lay you five to one you won't sleep. In this job you have to unwind. Otherwise it'll kill you. I mean that.
Some other time.
Look Matt, there's something I have to say to you. I saw you cheating.
What the fuck are you talking about?
That Greek guy who won at the end. You paid him out in 25s not 20s.
I don't cheat, Jack. You've got it wrong.
I'm not going to report it.
What are you, a cop?
If I see you do it again, I'll report it.
I don't get you. Even if it was true, which it isn't, what the fuck difference would it make to you?
Because if a supervisor knew I'd seen you and I hadn't reported it, I'd lose my job as well. And I can't afford that.
So it's Mr Clean. Wise up, Jack, this whole business is bent. The casino is nothing but legal theft. And that's OK. It's the system. Half the punters who come in are using stolen money, drug money, they haven't earned it. We earn our money. I'm on your side, Jack. I don't need an enemy.
You're talking about complicity.
I don't know what that means. I'm talking about not rocking the boat.
Who are these guys?
Mostly people in the casino business. A few drug dealers.
And the girls?
Just girls. What are you drinking?
Vodka. Straight. On the rocks.
Good call. Help yourself.
Does Bella come here?
That bitch? No.
Hey Jack, join us.
No thanks.
Don't worry, I won't report you!
I don't gamble.
I'm off. I need to sleep.
Loosen up, Jack. If you don't, this job'll get to you. The pressure's too much, believe me, it'll break you.
"The world breaks everyone, and afterwards many are strong in the broken places." Ernest Hemingway.
I can't give you a lift back tonight.
Don't worry.
Rough day?
Rough life, Jack.
What happened to Bella?
I'll tell you later.
What? You know what happened to me, don't you? That bitch Bella shopped me. I'd like to beat the shit out of her.
I'd like to buy you a drink.
Cheers. Happy New Year. I really like you, Jacko, you're so fucking straight. Hey, you haven't changed your clothes!
You've been avoiding me.
Have I?
I'm Lucy.
And what do you do, Lucy?
I'm a witch. A white witch. Why don't we move on?
Are you going to put a spell on me?
I might.
Nice car. How much did you pay for it?
Too much. Eighteen hundred.
Where to?
Turn left at the lights.
Detective Inspector Ross.
Who...
Ross.
Who did it? Tell me!
Of course I recognised him!
You did?
I know a cheat when I see one. The man was a cheat.
I'm sorry, madam, we don't accept gratuities in the UK. It's different in South Africa.
You know where I'm from?
I've lived there.
Well, thank you anyway.
Oh hello.
You know what? I'd like to buy you a drink.
It's against the rules. Dealers are forbidden to talk to punters.
That's stupid. What are the odds of you being seen with me?
Impossible to calculate.
To coincidence.
There's a casino in this hotel.
I'm not much of a gambler really. I just like this bar.
So why did you come to my casino?
I was at a loose end. A friend of a friend gave me a courtesy membership.
First visit to London?
No, no. I come every couple of years. I always think I'm going to stay. I'm from Cape Town originally
I was born in the Transkei, on the Wild Coast.
Near the casino.
In the casino.
Now there's a coincidence. My father used to gamble there.
Your father?
I loved the atmosphere. But it destroyed my poor mother.
The debts.
And the lies. Gamblers are born liars.
And superstitious too. It's like witchcraft.
That's Africa. There's an African in all of us, isn't there?
We all came from Africa, supposedly.
Do you believe in astrology?
Absolutely not. But then, I'm a Gemini and Geminis don't believe in astrology.
I'm not married. I wear it to keep the flies off. I must go. Let me pay for this.
Absolutely not.
Toss you for it.
I don't gamble.
How did you hurt your hand?
Just an accident. Nothing.
Turn left ahead.
Jani, there's something I want to say. Before we get there. I don't know what the sleeping arrangements are. Giles probably expects us to share a room.
That's fine.
He doesn't gamble.
I'll watch.
What happened?
Remember the guy who cheated at the table?
You don't like cheats, do you.
Which side do you like?
You choose.
That trick tonight, I don't think I've ever seen that before.
It can only work with amateurs, A pro would have spotted it.
I didn't.
Then you're not a pro.
I'm in trouble.
What kind of trouble?
I owe a lot of money.
Was that why you did the two grand? I couldn't help you.
I know that. But you can now.
I don't have any money. switches on the light. JANI is looking distressed.
Some people I know, they're planning to rob The Golden Lion.
They mean it.
Who's they?
My creditors. One night, around three in the morning, they'll come into the casino 
Forget it, Jani. It'll never work.
The point is, they want a man inside.
And I thought you were a bright woman.
Just listen. You don't have to do anything criminal.
Robbery's not criminal?
You don't have to be criminal. A man will come up to your table and deliberately cheat. You'll see him, stop him, and the guy will make a big scene. There'll be chaos. And that's when it'll happen.
You're serious.
You won't be committing a crime. The man will cheat, you'll just be doing your job, that's all.
And I thought you were only after my body.
I've come to know you. You're honest. I trust you.
What'll you do when it all goes wrong?
It won't.
But if it does.
You keep the ten thousand pounds.
What ten thousand pounds?
These people will pay you ten thousand before and ten thousand after. They want someone they can be sure of, an honest dealer. That's the point. Not all dealers are honest. Mr Reynolds will never suspect you.
Reynolds? You've done your research.
Next time it'll be my neck.
What about my neck?
I want to go back to Cape Town, I want to start again, clean.
I can't do it, Jani.
I'm asking you, as a...friend. You'd be saving the life of a friend.
I want you to forget what I said.
Wait a minute...
No, forget it. The bet's off.
How much do you owe?
Let it go.
Did they tell you to sleep with me?
I told you, all bets are off.
I'm sorry.
What for?
I have to take the car.
Is it yes?
Yes.
Thank you.
It doesn't seem fair. You're offering me ten grand in cash but you can't afford a decent place.
Well, life's not fair. We know that.
It's all relative. I need the money too.
Do you?
Yes.
The date's not set yet. I'll call you. One last thing: the man you're going to catch cheating, he may get violent. But you know how to deal with cheats.
That bruise has cleared up nicely.
Bruise? Oh, yes. It's better.
I've still got mine.
And your hand too.
I took the bandage off yesterday.
Would you like a drink?
No thank you.
I don't think we should meet again.
It's a shame there aren't more men in the world like you.
Hello...
Jack! It's Jani.
Jani! Where are you?
Sun City. I've been meaning to call you for months.
How are you?
Great. I'm getting married. At least, I think I am.
Did you solve your problems?
Yes. I'm all over that now. Jack, hold on a minute. There's someone here who wants to talk to you...
Great.
Found a job?
No.
Well I've got something for you. In London, I mean. I've been chatting to some friends. Do you know the Golden Lion casino? It's in Bayswater, I believe... They're looking for a dealer, a croupier.
Don't be stubborn. The pay won't be grand, but it's regular. That's what you need, isn't it? I know you don't like taking my advice...
It's not that.
I've set this up for you. Call the Golden Lion and ask for Mr Reynolds, he's the Manager. I don't know him personally, but I've spoken to his boss. Don't say no, Jacko. Give yourself a break.
For Christ's sake, Jacko, don't look a gift horse in the mouth. Have you written that name down? Reynolds, at the Golden Lion.
All right, dad. Yes, I'll call him.
So how are you doing, dad?
Great. I've just started a new company. Solid financing. It's good. I love you Jacko, you know that
Yes, I know that.
Don't let yourself down.
I won't. Goodbye, dad.
I couldn't resist them.
You mean I won't resist them.
No, no. I'm not ready for you. There's some vodka in the freezer.
You want me drunk?
I won't be that long.
You really are a beautiful woman.
It's not just inner beauty, is it?
Turn around.
Where did you get it?
I. sold the car.
You shouldn't have done that. I know what it meant to you.
I owe you for the rent. It's only a car. I can get another.
Take it back. Till you sell your book.
Come on, Marion. Let's face the truth. Nobody's going to publish it.
Of course they will. You just have to be patient. I'm betting on you.
You're my prisoner.
I've got something to tell you.
I want to hear it.
I've got a job.
What job?
In a casino. As a croupier. A dealer.
How did you land that?
It came my way. 450 a week.
450? What did you do, just walked in and said I want to be a croupier? Don't you need training?
I had training. In the Republic.
You were a croupier there? You never told me that. I thought you just knew some gamblers.
I start Monday week.
You sold the car. You got a job. What's the third thing? Tell me.
There's no third thing. Don't be superstitious.
I love you Jack, you know that.
Are you trying to read my palm?
You've got such beautiful hands.
What's the time?
I don't know.
How did it go?
Fine.
You're shaking. What is it?
Tension. It'll go.
Poor baby. This'll relax you.
I loved it blond.
It's only hair. I haven't changed.
When you get home, I'm asleep. When I leave home, you're asleep.
I'll see you in my dreams.
Where've you been? I've got to give evidence in court at nine.
Don't play the cop with me, Marion.
Take that back! Fucking take that back. I'm not a cop any more.
I take it back. You're not a cop any more. You're a store detective.
Are you drunk?
Probably.
This fucking job's getting to you. You haven't written a fucking word since you started.
Do you have to swear all the time?
Well, that's my poor upbringing. I didn't go to no private school. I haven't got no class. I want to live with a writer. Not a fucking croupier. I don't even know what the word means. Croupier.
Marion, stop this.
What do I mean to you? I want to know. Tell me.
You're my conscience.
Haven't you got a conscience of your own?
What are you doing here? You know the rules.
What about a drink on the way home?
I don't finish till eight. Make it nine and you're on.
I'm on at nine.
Well, that's our life now, isn't it?
I don't like it.
Why not?
I don't like it at all. You had a wonderful character before, the Gambler. He was so romantic.
He was a loser. This guy's a croupier. He can't lose. People have shat on him all his life. Now he's in control. He's a winner.
Is that your idea of a winner? He doesn't give a shit about anyone. He uses people and 
 It's because of the sex, isn't it? You don't like the sex in it.
I don't give a fuck about the sex. Most men'll fuck a lamppost. He's just a miserable zombie. Is that the way you feel now? Is that what's happened to you?
Marion. It's a book.
Oh really. Then why is he called Jake. Why don't you come clean and call him Jack. There's no hope in it.
It's the truth.
Without hope there's no point to anything.
Now wait a minute. What's so hopeful about your job? Spending the day catching poor people stealing. You said yourself the organised gangs get away with it. At least in the casino everybody gets caught. Rich or poor, the odds are the same. It's all relative.
Crap. It's not relative. It's unfair. Like your casino. It's designed unfair. And your croupier's a little shit because he goes along with it.
The door, Jack.
Leave it.
No. Answer it!
It's beautiful. Thank you.
I hope it brings you luck.
It will.
That girl, she works at the casino 
 I don't care about her. Of course, I was angry. But not with you. The book is yours not mine. I was wrong, what I said about it. I hurt you, didn't I?
You're entitled to your opinion.
It's none of my business what you write. And your job, that's none of my business either. I love you. And I've done everything wrong.
I'll leave the casino soon. I promise.
You will?
Within a month. Believe me, I'm going to quit!
What?
You were talking in your sleep.
Not talking. Writing.
Aren't you ever tempted to gamble?
Never. Why do you ask?
I can just imagine, being around so much money all the time...
Gambling's not about money.
Really?
Gambling's about not facing reality. Ignoring the odds.
How did you know I was here?
I thought you wouldn't want to spend Christmas Day alone in here.
I don't want a criminal for a boyfriend.
There was a message, wasn't there?
It's probably easier for you to eat the rice.
Marion! What did you tell the police?
Nothing about you.
Then what?
Give up being a croupier, Jack. Or I'll shop you. All you have to do is keep your word. It's that simple.
Here...use a spoon.
Leave me alone, Marion.
You're already alone.
Why did you take the money?
I hate public transport.
What?
I want to buy a car.
How can anyone be that naive?
Three years, two months. March '93.
What a memory you've got. Maths always was your strong suit. What happened to the moaning Lisa?
She went back to South Africa.
Did she? You were pretty thick at one time.
We all played the field.
Hiya... I'll call you back. Now then...
I want a job, Giles.
All right. As what?
I was thinking perhaps I could be a reader. You employ readers, don't you?
We do. For unsolicited manuscripts. We pay twenty pounds a manuscript. You might get two, maybe three in a week. Can you live on sixty pounds?
I thought it was you. It's the hair!
I'm working on that soccer story.
Right. Look, I must get back to Habib.
Habib?
My author. He's a Terrorist. He's written a killandtell book. Take care.
Jack, look, next weekend I'm having a house party. Here... It's near Oxford. Why don't you come? It'll just be social. No business. Bring a friend. I've plenty of room.
I'll try and make it.
Looking forward!
She's a dab hand With a racquet, your friend.
South African women are very sporty.
I found her in bed with someone.
Who was he?
She.
I don't gamble.
Don't be a spoilsport. It's only a few quid.
It's nothing to do with money. I don't gamble.
Last hand.
Hey. I've got an idea. Why don't we...
I get it.
Get what? Are you accusing me of cheating?
Good God, no. But with skill like that, what do you want a job for? You don't need to work.
Good night?
Not particularly.
And your lady?
She had to leave early. She asked me to thank you.
A bit unexpected, wasn't it?
Not entirely.
How's that football story corning along?
You said it was going to be social, Giles. No business.
What kind of deal you looking to?
What's the Blue Book price?
That's not relevant. An old car like this, it depends on the condition.
How about fifteen hundred?
How about five hundred.
What?!
How about we split the diff... Sevenfifty.
Is that your idea of arithmetic?
I'm not a mathematician. I'm in business.
Eightfifty.
Sevenfifty.
I'm Bella.
Jack Manfred.
Hi, Jack. Welcome to the cesspit.
Is it that bad?
How do I look?
Jack. Do you need a ride?
No. Thanks.
My car's in the garage.
Maybe another time.
I'll take you up on that.
Goodnight.
You're shaking.
It's the tension.
I hate cheats.
All men are cheats.
But don't worry, I'm clean as a whistle. I only did S & M. No blow jobs. No screwing.
Why did you quit?
I got scared.
I can imagine.
Can you? I'm happy being a dealer. At least the punters keep their hands to themselves.
You called the casino a cesspit.
Well it is. But I know where I am.
I've been watching you work. You're the best in the place. But you know that.
I despise the job.
Ah, we all say that. But if we hate it, why do we do it?
The Indian ropetrick.
Look, now I'm pumping you. I'm sorry. It's none of my business. It's just that you're not like the others.
Not like Matt, you mean.
Now he's a real shit. Don't get friendly with him. I'm sure he's got his hand in the till. You know what he said to me once? "I want to fuck the whole world over. That's my mission." The shit!
Ouch.
Sorry.
You fucking little shit! You shopped me.
What are you talking about?
Reynolds got a doctor in. They forced me to take a dope test. It was positive. As you knew.
I don't know anything about it.
Your boyfriend fucked me, smoked my dope, then shopped me. What do you think of that? I can't get a job now. You bastard. You're no different from Matt. A pair of vicious little shits, that's what you are.
Look Bella, I don't know anything about this. You should talk to Matt.
You're all scumbags.
What are you laughing at? Who was that on the phone?
A couple I know are getting married.
You sell it.
To who?
Don't be an idiot. How hard do you think it is to sell one drug dealer's drugs to another drug dealer? If Vig's right, we might be looking at a hundred, maybe a hundred fifty grand...
You think this is a good idea? We never did this kinda shit before.
What's he going to do? File a missing drugs report? If it works out, this guy might be good for a few more turns.
Hope so. Those fucking orthodontist bills are killing me. One fifty every time they tighten those bitches up. One fifty! It's not even covered.
It's cosmetic. They don't cover cosmetic. Last year I had a tooth capped. The dentist tells me I'm not covered for caps. It's cosmetic.
Bullshit it's cosmetic! My fucking tooth was cracked in half. I made the son of a bitch write it in as a cavity. The department's dental is for shit.
Whoa, whoa... There he is.
You trust this Moonan guy?
I don't trust anybody. You see how bad this guy wants Vig? It's like a sickness. I say we collar Vig ourselves. We got Vig, then we got leverage. And we trade; Vig for that tape. I want to see it right in front of my face.
It's just insurance.
That's what I'm talking about.
I'm down!
What are you doing?
High five.
Put your hand down. I don't high five.
Who?
I've been looking for this Jake Vig for some time now. Problem is, the guy's the invisible man. A spook, a spectre, a ghost. Then, like a gift, Jake's good buddy and member of his crew, Alfonse Moorely, is found the other day with a hole in his head.
Do you want to know the first time I had a line on Vig? He sent me a birthday card. Belated, but it's the thought, right? Oh, this prick's got a sense of humor. But, then again you guys probably know him better than I do. In fact, I've only met the guy once. But now, now I have you. The next best thing. His partners. His "Fix."
What do you want?
You help me catch him. Whatever he's into next, I want you to be into. And what you're into, I'm into. If it all goes well, those two guys from IAD will never have to hear this tape. I'll clear you guys of anything you've ever done with Vig under the guise of some cross departmental investigation. This prick's been on the wish list for so long, you'll probably get gold shields out of it.
What do you get out of it?
Peace of mind.
That's it?
Not everyone's on the take, Walter.
This guy must have been a real pain in your dick.
Literally. It's not a bad deal, gentleman. I get peace of mind. You get Detective Sheilds. But this is the best part, Walter... Walter, your daughter will get to keep her braces and have that winning smile. Capice?
Good... I gotta go. So, what do you have for me?
Whaddya mean? We got dick.
You guy's are not working with me here. I just got off the phone with my boss. After he got done ripping me a new Lincoln Tunnel size asshole, he let me know exactly how little I'm welcome back if we come up short. And now here you guys are, WASTING MY FUCKING TIME!
He's headed towards the eastern most exit. Do not, under any circumstances approach. I want to follow this all the way down to Vig.
Roger that.
Special Agent?
You are Officer Richard Rottovich. And this would be Officer Walter Sobozinski. I'm looking for Jake Vig.
Preliminary forensics suggests he was sitting there, bloated and purple in his egg foo young for at least seventy two hours. Alfonse was not a small man and there was a lot of food ordered, so you can imagine the smell. Bad for the neighbors, good for me because in all the time I've been looking for Jake, this is only the second time I've even gotten a whiff of him.
Look Special Agent Moonan... We don't know what you're talking about.
If you Feds are so hot for him, why don't we just bring him in right now?
I want him for something big and to do that, we have to catch him in the act.
Like we told you before, we think he's into something with the King Pin 
Look, I'm not a confrontational person by nature.
Did he buy it?
I think so. What'd he ever do to you anyway?
Let's just say he burned me once.
You guys awake?
We're here.
What?
Consider him part of your crew. Consider him a part of me.
Coupla things. They got this Fed looking around and the girl just split.
A Fed? Is he close?
I don't think so. Their Fix gave us the heads up and Jake's got a plan that'll probably keep him off.
Speak.
He's landing. He's got a suitcase on wheels.
So do half the other people in this place. How do I know which one?
I got it figured out... He's got this thing with bathrooms. If he makes it through Customs, he'll be heading for the john.
Good. Good. Do not let Vig out of your sight.
Ten percent.
You guys got sack, I'll give you that much.
Confidence. It's just confidence.
Do you have any idea what those monks charge for that medieval torture?
We got a good thing going here. You want to blow it over an overbite?
The King, huh? Nice going.
I try.
Just a tip.
What are we gonna do with this stuff anyway? Heroin? What the hell do you do with heroin?
Aces, Suits.
Not easy pickin's. Papers like these speak to larger issues. Sorry about Alfonse. You into something big?
Pretty much.
In over your head?
Pretty much.
Can I speak to you in confidence?
Huh? Oh. She's alright.
Try and keep up... You ask for the Advantage Goods, then you guys come in looking to be Bean Traps. So I gotta think you're either working the mace or playing the Jug Mob.
A little bit of both.
Hey, I been on the ramp all my life, so I got no problem with the way you help yourself, Jake.
I saw you go up from the Knecker, working that Grind, learning the Barnard's Law and I thought, "the kid's a prodigy." But I know that if you're using these goods... So then I figure, what's worth that? You're either looking for a little history or a retirement fund. Who's the Mark?
Can't say.
Then who's the Banker?
The King.
The King? Jake, you play the heavy rackets like that... They put the lug on for nothing at all.
I can handle it.
I don't doubt your talent. You looking for that place in the hall of fame?
It's not history.
So what do you want?
I want to get out from under all this for good. And I want to fuck them all doing it.
Then I gotta say, in my opinion, you can't get what you want.
Still time.
Can't do it Suits. I can't lay down for this one.
Okay. Here's the thing... You fall flat, you might not get anything short of stiffed. Then it's Blue River Land for everybody. Papers like these are dangerous because papers tend to multiply, then they start to take shape. Usually it's the shape of an arrow. I hate to do it, but after this, I gotta give you the blowoff. We Jake, Jake?
When this is all over, you're going to tell me who the King put on Al.
You going to have the time?
I'll find the time.
King ain't gonna like this.
Don't worry, I'll settle up with your boss. We haven't skipped town yet.
What I'm saying is, is that the King ain't gonna care. See he had a real thing with getting this Gillette guy, If you ask me I think he's jealous.
Of what? They're both crooks.
Exactly. 'Cept this Gillette guy. He gets to walk around in three piece suits, hob knob with the Mayor, own a bank, that kinda shit. Meanwhile, the King sits holed up in the steam, afraid to even take a leak without me or Harlin watching the door.
My fucking heart bleeds.
Your buddy. That fat guy. The King couldn't wait to have that guy whacked. He didn't even know who the guy was, but he was so pissed off at him, he gets him drilled. It ain't personal. It's business.
Point, Lupus. Give us a point.
Point is, you don't go through with this, he's going to go after you next. And he don't even like you, Jake.
What'd he say?
Oh, you know... Don't fuck this up. I'll kill you. I'll kill your family. I'll shoot your dog... All the usual. Then he said good luck.
So that's it, huh? You get the cops to give you a safe ride.
Let me ask you something... You really think I'm going to come this close, this fucking close and let my guard down? I'll get square with your boss. I'll get square with whoever did Al. I'll get square with everybody. Then I'm going going to cash in my chips and be on my way to a new and better me far away from here.
You're a weasel.
He's wheeling around two million dollars in cash and he wants to stop to use the bathroom. You believe this?
Maybe he's got it right. Maybe we're all just looking for a safe place to shit.
That was fucking deep.
What's up with you? Bladder infection?
Keep it up.
You really like that bitch don't you? I gotta tell you, I was pretty convinced that the whole thing before was blowing her off for her cut. You know how it is, get her to do some shit for you, throw her a bang to keep her happy. But, if you're into her... That's cool.
That's what I like about you, Lupus. You're a free thinker. Don't let the King tell you different.
Egg Foo Young. Stand up.
What?
Stand up.
No offense, but I've seen you fight. You gotta be kidding m
What happened?
Eee Oott Auught!
Sorry. What?
HE GOT CAUGHT! Your boss tried to pull a switch and he got us all fucking pinched!
And like in a game of chess, you've played every possible move in your head...
You were right. He's trying to fuck you. You want it, you gotta get it at the airport...
Excuse me? I believe you're holding something far me under Pearson.
Do you have a ticket?
You know, this is kind of embarrassing, but my wallet was stolen yesterday and I'm afraid the ticket was in it. But the name's Pearson.
I'm sorry. Nothing under Pearson.
You're sure? This is... Just a complete disaster.
What was it?
A ring for my wife. A lot like that one. In fact, it was that one.
That's no problem. We have those in stock.
Thank you. Sorry, I'm just a little anxious to give it to her. You take out of state checks?
With identification.
I understand that, but I had my wallet stolen last night. Is there any way..?
I'm sorry.
I know it's policy, but... The thing is... It's our first anniversary and we're only in town for the weekend. It's a very, very special night for my wife and I. This ring is my gift to her and I think she's going to really love it. I can give you phone numbers to call for people who'll vouch. I can send you I.D. later...
I'm sorry.
This is embarrassing.
Ticktock...
If you wanna help, then help. If not, shut up.
Your mess.
Then shut up.
My place.
Stop waving that thing around.
You sure we're clear?
Yeah.
You better get over to Al's. Now.
I was supposed to meet him for breakfast. He likes that new IHOP they just opened, you know... He likes to order that thing. The Rutti TuttiFresh and Fruity thing they got.
Miles...
Sorry. I'm just... Look what they did to him. Right in the middle of his eggfooyoung.
It's bad luck.
Just an idea, but let's just fucking split. We'll meet up anywhere. Akron or Austin or Atlanta. Anywhere...
He'll find us. We go talk to him.
Do we want insurance? I'm just asking...
Just mail it to the hospital. Mr. King, please. It's regarding an accounting problem. Yes... Correct... I know where it is. That will be fine. Thank you.
Meet me at my place later.
How do you know the King's going to let you walk?
I'm getting a ride.
You better hurry. The police will be here any second. I don't really understand my motivation with this. Why am I washing glasses?
Now you're an accomplice in a homicide. Everything you thought you were in control of just flew out the window or is dripping down your leg.
We're working for the King.
Wait a second... Who's the mope?
No. Big con. One rag. One rag and we get out from under all this. But we need another Shill.
What do we need another Shill for?
Breasts.
Why?
Because that's who the King Pin wants us to fleece. And Gillette's perfect...
Uh...
What?
I'm just thinking out loud here, but... Two million in a briefcase?
Good point.
It never worked before because A, they didn't flush the bank enough; B, their corporate papers were for shit; C, they didn't have someone on the inside with Customs.
Yeah, or D, it's a dumb fucking idea...
Then what do you want to do, Miles? Run?
We never had a problem with that before.
Yeah, well we never had this kind of problem before.
What are you talking about? Yes we have. And we would have been beautiful about it. We would've had a bucket of chicken delivered to the King with a nice kiss my ass card attached to it. Then we woulda moved on 'til the next local putz caught on.
We're getting a little old for running.
Yeah, well we're still a little young for Albany State Prison. Are you pissed about Al? I'm pissed too, but I'm not like "twentyfive to life" pissed.
I'm getting clear of this. If you're not going to do it for the fucking principle, do it for the money. Gordo?
Is it all fugasi?
No, the corporate papers have to be legit. But you gotta score an I.D. A clean one. Talk to Suits. I gotta get us a Banker.
What you're looking for in a mark is someone who's weakness you can exploit.
Michelle Strigo. Loan officer.
Him.
You sure?
But if you wanna talk about bad luck...
Where the hell is she?
So this is our boss, right? He chases me and Miles out of his office and he's yelling and screaming, "You're fired! Your whole team's fired!" He starts looking for Lily, Lupus, Gordo 
But the best part was that he couldn't find Gordo! He was in the bathroom. So he finally goes in there, kicks in a stall door and starts yelling! And there's Gordo, pants at the ankles, holding a PC World Magazine!
What do we do? We change the scam?
There is no scam! I've got a fucking sign on my back! I can't leave town now and come back with a suitcase full of money. You get it? It's over. We walk.
No, no, no! Not this time. I am doing this for your own good! You guys have got to learn when to stop. You with the Armani! You with the hookers!
Escorts!
Do you even remember Al? Do you remember what he looked like sitting there?
Feeling lucky today, Miles. Found a penny  Heads up. There was an empty cab right outside my building. We hit every green light.
And we got rid of the red head.
And we got rid of the red head.
Jake? Customs?
What is this? You guys cops or something?
We're not cops.
That's not 
You interested in a little work?
Sorry about your wallet, but if you think I'm going to suck dick over thirty seven dollars, a maxed out Visa and a bad fake I.D., you're fucking crazy. Jake.
Take a deep breath and count to ten. It's not that kind of work. You're Lily, right?
Says who?
You're working Daffy's block. He was going to break your kneecaps. Pick pockets can be so bitchy sometimes. I told him you were with us, so that's two you owe me.
We have work. It pays a lot. Unless you figure on getting rich lifting wallets while old guys feel you up.
Oooh. Sassy. What do you care who feels me up, Jake? Unless it kinda gotcha going. Did it, Jake? Getcha going?
Alright! Hold up. You win. You got the job.
Gee thanks. Now I don't have to find that bridge to jump off.
We had to see what your deal was. I'm just a little superstitious.
Here's my deal  Don't waste my time. What do you want me for anyway? You don't even know me.
I just have a good feeling about you. Haven't you ever had someone say they had a good feeling about you before?
No. What's my cut?
You get an equal cut.
What do I have to do?
Just play a part. A little acting.
What about Customs?
I'll worry about Customs.
Hey, I'm not just along for the ride, so I don't want to hear any bullshit later about a smaller cut.
Take a deep breath. You sound like you just broke up with your boyfriend or something.
Mr. King, I think 
Hey, I got it! Take some mental notes. You just might learn something here.
What the hell's his problem?
Don't worry about it.
It's just that I left my asshole decoder ring at home, so how do I know not to worry?
You need to get a haircut.
What?
And some new clothes.
Why?
We're going to rope this banker tomorrow and you gotta at least look classy, if not be classy. You gotta do this thing and I don't even know if you can.
You're just going to have to trust me.
I don't trust anyone.
Then show me how.
Uh... Everything okay?
Honey, this is Mr. Lewis. Carolyn Lewis's father. Mr. Lewis, this is my wife, Lily.
He's gone.
Uhhuh.
I gotta go get a haircut.
Uhhuh.
You just put a mother of a jinx on us.
Lighten up.
But the fucking Grand PooBah of all jinxes? A bird in your house...
You told me to change my hair!
What about this? Do you have any idea what this means? You've killed us. We're dead!
Did I miss something?
We're getting down to the wire. Apparently another company has a similar product in R&D right now. If they beat us to it...
Off the record, I'm this close to cutting someone in on the action if it'd help.
Look at you... You want to go.
For what? A couple hundred bucks?
I think you'd do it for free. You're almost drooling. You like the rush.
It's what I do. It's my job.
Why? Your mother not breast feed you or something?
Are you asking me if I have something to prove?
Do you have something to prove?
Not in that repressed anger sort of way.
I'm your basic underachiever. Can't stand working and porn doesn't seem like a good option.
Good quality porn has it's place in the world.
Whatever. But you... I get the feeling you could have bullshitted your way into anything. So why this?
I'm good at it. Lying, cheating, manipulating... I'm good at it.
It's more than that.
Intuition. It doesn't make you Yoda. Like tonight. You killed that guy tonight. But I knew you would.
So that was my part? Smile and shake my ass?
No. You have another part? You'll know what to do.
How do you know I will?
Intuition.
You have really soft hands. Like a baby's.
Don't ruin this for me.
How do you deal with 
WHAT?
I SAID, HOW DO  Deal with that?
Who says you have to know the King to be in a hole? I actually did have a real job once. When I was in high school, I worked as a candy striper.
Sounds respectable.
Not the way I did it. I was loaded half the time. I don't know how you could change bedpans sober. I used to hang out with this guy, Glenn. He was an xray technician or something.
You want to talk about an old boyfriend right now?
He wasn't my boyfriend. I had a boyfriend at the time... What was his name? Anyway, Glenn was like thirty. I was only fifteen. But he was a nice guy. Real sweet. Liked to talk. We used to get loaded on pills from the nurses station and then listen to Morrisey or some stupid shit like that.
Yeah, the sensitive guything never worked for me.
We were friends. I trusted him. I should have known it was weird. But, then again I was weird.
You guys got busted. This is a great neck.
No, we never got busted. We were done with a shift one night, both a couple of Percocets down and I was telling Glenn about my boyfriend, about how we were thinking about doing it, you know? I was thinking about letting him be my first because I loved him. What the hell was his name?
Glenn talked you out of it.
Sort of. I was telling him about this great love of my life who's name I don't remember, and I could see... He was getting pissed. I thought it was just because he was worried about me, but... He told me that I was stupid because my boyfriend didn't really love me.
He was looking out for you.
Then he grabbed me and threw me down on the floor, that really cold linoleum tiled hospital floor and started ripping my uniform off. He said he was going to "fuck some sense into me."
Shit, what was that guy's name? I really liked him.
Lily... Jesus Christ...
After Glenn was finished, he gave me a couple of valiums and I went home. The next day, I finished my shift and met him around back, like we always did. I stuck a number eight scalpel into his chest. Three or four times.
Did, uh... Did you kill him?
I don't know. I packed up my shit and ran away. To this... So unlike you, I guess I do have something to prove, in a repressed anger sort of way.
No. You trusted him... You were just getting square.
You know why I told you that, Jake? Because I trust you too.
Jesus... Take it easy.
No, I'm not going to take it easy. You can't stay clear of this guy. He will be on this until the end of time.
You are such a raving pussy sometimes.
Hey, we fucked once, honey. That hardly makes you a good judge of character. And don't think I didn't know you were working some angle with that either.
Everyone's working an angle, right?
There are three people I trust  him, him and a guy who got killed. I don't know who you are! You're like some stray dog that wandered into the house. So I'm telling you to cut loose of this. No one's looking for you, Not the King, not Moonan and not Gillette. Just go wherever it is you would go. It's over.
What about...
What about what?
What about the money?
So there it is. You got that big itch you need to scratch. It's all about the fucking money. What do you want, an apology?
No, I want my cut!
I'm going to say this one last time for you, so take a deep breath and count to ten. There is no cut.
Sorry. I didn't know...
Your friend, Big Al? It should have been you.
You got my cell. Leave a message.
It's me. It's Jake. Listen... It's happening. Gordo's landing right now. Meet me at the Euclid... For your cut, I mean. It's... I want you to have it.
What do you get, Lily? Finder's Fee? Because it is all about the money, right?
You sold me out. You should have trusted me like I trusted you. You fucked up. You fucked up HUGE.
You tell them the "Tale".
What do you want? An apology?
No, I want my cut!
I lost my head. I'm... Sorry. I don't know what happened.
Yyyou fucking shot him! That's what happened!
I had to! That motherfucker was about to welch! You saw what he was doing, right? You heard him!
I can't be here! You understand? I can't 
Listen to me! It went to shit. It happens sometimes.
Oh Jesus!
LISTEN to me! We don't have much time. We can still get through this but you have to keep your head and trust me!
What  What do we do?
Help me.
What about... The money?
What about this situation makes you think I can answer that question right now?
Sorry, I 
Jake. Jake Pearson. I go to lawschool with your daughter. Carolyn. We met once or twice.
Of course. Jake. Nice to see you.
Well, it certainly is a coincidence. Here of all places! How is Mrs. Lewis?
Great. Thank you.
What brings you down from Boston, Jake? Taking advantage of the long weekend?
My wife and I are just taking a little vacation.
Attractive girl.
Thank you. Actually, it's our first anniversary this weekend. She thinks I'm here to pick up something for my mother, but it's actually a gift for her. Think I've fooled her?
Take it from me, you never do. But congratulations. Nice to be married, isn't it?
Very much so.
Thank you, sir. You know, I hope this isn't too much of an inconvenience, but if Carolyn is coming down for the weekend, perhaps I could give you something for her? It's a check. We split the cost on a few books and I haven't had the chance to pay her back yet. Could you..?
Sure.
What are you talking about? Ten's standard.
Yeah Well, Sobo's kid needs braces.
Don't get me wrong, Jake. I like you boys. You guys are the steadiest business in town. But what can I say? Twenty percent's still better than what we give to any of the other criminals.
All the shit we pulled with you and you're trying to shake us down? You guys got sack.
Was that a threat? Did I hear a threat? Last I remember, we were talking economics, then this...? What happens next time if we gotta stop and help a little old lady cross the street? Well, shit... Then we gotta pass the call to someone else.
That tip not workout for you fellas?
Tip was fine, Jake. We were a little more curious about the Fed.
Hey, listen... If you guys don't pay your taxes, that's your business.
Special Agent Gunther Moonan. Ring a bell?
Gunther? I think I'd remember a Gunther.
Ring it for him, Sobo.
Oh yeah. Moonan. I remember now. Thanks.
Well he's in town and he sure as shit remembers you. What are we going to do about this Jake? We can't afford to have a Fed onto us.
Wouldn't dream of it.
I don't know what you're into with the King Pin, but whatever it is we get a piece, understand? We get a big piece. If we find out you're keeping us out, I may suddenly develop a conscious and give you up to Moonan myself. Say something stupid if we got a deal, Jake.
Something stupid.
Good boy.
Kennedy. International terminal. Gordo with a black suitcase. You got Moonan under control?
Don't worry about Moonan. We got him covered. When...? It was him. There's a shipment coming through tonight. Kennedy.
Grifter huh? Where have you been on the grift? Couldn't been here long 'cause I would have heard of you, Skippy.
Jake. You can call me Jake. Here and there.
Here and there, Scooter? Here and there like Boston, Chicago, Houston? The bay area? Some action in London, 'til it turned nickel and dime. Or how about that little stint down in Miami? Heard you actually got into some trouble with the Feds down there. You guy's pretty good?
I have a good crew.
Minus one.
Minus one.
You know, back in the day, grafting was considered a gentleman's racket. Good suits, good food... The Underworld of the Underworld. A grifter had to survive on his wits, his instincts... I like that. I like the idea of that. These days, things being what they are, guys like me gotta stay low. It's all take, take, take. You can't just be fucking witty about it.
I guess it lacks a certain style.
Of course, your line of work's only as good as the people you find.
You can't cheat an honest man.
You can't cheat an honest man. But a man like Lionel Dolby...
I apologize for the inconvenience.
Honest mistake. Just give me the money back and all will be forgiven.
I can't do that.
Why not?
Let me rephrase  I won't do that.
Let me repeat  Why not?
Because you killed one of my crew.
Buddy, that was business. Besides, you have more crew. Then there's you...
I'll get the money back, plus interest. I go on the grift for you. You get a cat, I get a cut. And we get square.
Fucking grifters! I love it! You got balls, I'll give you that much.
No. Just confidence.
I' ll be honest with you, Kid. A grifter comes in here with a fifteen hundred dollar DKfuckingNY suit, cooler than an Eskimo in winter and tells me he wants to grift for me? First thing I have to ask myself is, is he playing for me or is he just plain playing me? You tried it once.
We got caught. So you know it won't happen again.
Why?
You ask a lot of questions. Come on. Let me see 'em.
How much?
I think two million.
What do you need from me? Permission? Go! If you can fleece him for two million, then do it, Kid.
I need you to stake me.
Stake you?
I need you to stake me. I can't do it without it. It's just a couple hundred grand. Taken out of our cut when we're done.
That's more than you already owe me. What happens if you fuck this up?
Nothing ventured, nothing gained.
Hey Skippy? Do I have the word "chump" tattooed on my forehead?
Listen, Scooter 
No, you listen. We're partners now and even though I'm running the show for you, I'm still running the show. That means I get a little respect. So I don't want to hear anymore of this Scooter, Buddy, Junior, Skippy, Tiger, bullshit. It's Jake. And I gotta tell you, for a guy who spends all his time in a gym, you could be in better shape.
Excuse me?
I said take off your fucking shirt.
Look at you, you skinny prick.
You're not going to bust out baby oil and start rubbing me down or anything, are you?
Come here. Feel this.
No thanks. I'm good.
Come here!
Come on. Harder.
I think I just broke my hand.
Harder. Remember, I killed your buddy.
Shit.
I told you, use less powder.
But you won't get that splatter effect.
What? I can feel you looking at me.
That's a lot of cash. He came up with it pretty quick.
Probably some investment banker or convertiblebondsbrokerdickhead. Did you see how fast he ran out of here? It's done. He's not coming back.
I guess. I gotta drop a dime. Did anybody mess up the hoop?
It can buy you a new and better you.
I just don't know if this says, "me". What's the fabric?
Seems Lionel Dolby came down with a sudden case of drowning last night. They just pulled him out of the East River.
Well, this is just fucking great...
It gets worse. Now I know why he was such a good rope. I mean, cash... That much and we never had to put him on the "Send?" Turns out this ducking Moe was an accountant for the King Pin.
You know what we're doing with the money.
And what about Big Al?
Leave him. Someone's going to find him eventually. Then they'll start looking for us, too.
When?
Tonight. Just me.
You gotta be kidding me. Her?
Yes, her. Where's my wallet?
How much we going after?
Two million.
We only owe the King a hundred and fifty.
We get fifty percent. And we get clear of the King.
We meet him with corporate papers, inquiring about a corporate loan for start up capital. The corporate papers are in order, but we need things to happen fast. Our guy fudges numbers in the right places, moves our papers to the top of the pile or to the bottom, depending upon what we need.
How's that? He works for Gillette.
We pay better.
Yeah... Whatever, Jake.
No, not "whatever." You're either in or you're out.
You laugh now, but wait until you need a clean place to powder. This is New York city, Sister. Public sanitation does not run very high on the city hall agenda. You know what you can get off a toilet or doorknob? Let's do the list... Hepatitis, influenza, the flesh eating disease 
Here's what's going to happen. Gordo, we need to find a guy in Gillette's bank. Miles, we need papers, corporate, insurance...
She up for this?
She's up for it.
She got one leg out from under him. Now we had to lean.
So then Miles walks straight into the Creative Director's office and says "The code's fine, the program's for shit" and throws down like a thousand pages of code on the guy's desk!
Uh... No thanks. I'm not going all the way to Brooklyn for a hundred dollar payoff.
You sure?
We're going to make it back, Grant. Three or four times over.
And all you need to do for your ten percent is put some paperwork through and push a button tomorrow.
You'll be there?
Eight A.M. flight.
Calls?
We'll use the Euc.
Jake 
What do I always tell you guys? Don't spend it all. Sooner or later we're going to run into some bad luck. Save some. Put it away, so when shit like this happens, you're not desperate. That's it. The gig's up.
So that's it...
That's it.
Then he had to bang it out across the street at the Bank of the Caymens...
I'd like this cashed, please.
You ever use the bathroom in Kennedy?
What? No. Use the bathroom on the plane!
Masters of our own destiny.
So far, masters of our own demise. What bank are you with?
Jake...
It's alright. Grant's one of the good guys.
I'm going home
Let's go, Jake?
Moonan. Here. Shit...
So what? We just stay clear of him.
That's it? What are you talking about? We can still do this!
Jake, I mean, come on 
Who's that?
The cash we fleeced off of him was collection money. He was supposed to take that money and give it to the King earlier yesterday like he does every Thursday. 'Cept this time, he figured he could make a little something for himself off us and still get the King's money back before any body says "boo."
What's a King Pin?
Currently, the King Pin is a very largetype pole stuck up our asses.
Mob?
Independent. Same shit, just independent. They call him the King Pin because he looks like that guy from the comic book... Big. Fat. Bald.
So what? We hide, right?
What are you? New? Let me tell you how good this guy is. Last night, Al calls this bookie to settle up. Apparently he's been ducking him for like a month. So the guy asks him where he's got all this money all of a sudden, right? What does Al do? Does he tell him that he cashed in a fucking Bar Mitzvah bond? Does he tell him he's been giving head out back for twenty bucks a pop? No... He starts going on about this job he just pulled and how he fleeced some Wall Street assholetype... How HE fleeced.
You're pissed we didn't get credit?
No, that was the only semifucking smart thing he said! Except anybody that's ever met Big Al knows that the only thing he's comfortable doing alone is eating. This guys tells this guy, that guy tells some other guy, eventually it works it's way back to someone who works for the King and 
Big Al gets whacked midegg foo young. The whole thing took about two and a half hours. That's how good he is.
We sure Big Al threw him to us?
Come on...
Whoa. What?
We're going to give him the money back?
Fuck that. We're going too.
Alright, let's all put our dicks back in our pants for a second. Is this the best thing to do?
This might just be me, but that is hands down, the dumbest fucking idea I've ever heard.
People have tried this before, Jake. It's never worked. Teddy Fraiser and his crew went on vacation in Chicago for it. Last year, Mumps got pinched in L.A.
The red hair... It's bad luck.
It's not like she's a real redhead, Jake...
Poor bastard never knew what hit him. Jesus, I almost felt sorry for the guy.
I gotta work off some of this adrenaline. I got a line on this Pawn Shop guy over in Brooklyn. Anybody want in?
Not that I recall. What do you want us to do about it?
Let's see... Let's suppose he gets to Customs and he gets caught. We get our money back, but then we have to deal with a criminal investigation. I don't much like that idea. Then again, let's suppose he actually gets through Customs. Now, that'll be something. We recover the money in cash and let the insurance cover the corporate fraud. We double our money.
So we go to the bar.
I think so. The airport's going to be crawling with police. Traffic will be a nightmare. Go down to the bar. If they pull it off, great. Have someone deal with Ashby.
We'll take care of it.
And how much did you say you wanted for this... What did you call it? A finder's fee?
Ten is standard, sir.
Fine. But only if we recover the cash.
And I think it's because of this redhead...
Know who I am, Jake?
The AntiChrist?
No. I'm not the AntiChrist. Or the Prince of Darkness. I'm just a guy looking for some answers.
Things are probably going to end badly for you, Jake.
Gee... What makes you say that?
Your life flashing before your eyes?
Just the last three weeks.
That's not a bad place to start.
Grifters...
We can't all be model citizens such as yourself.
It's all about the money, isn't it?
Isn't it always?
I'm not saying anything. Besides, you're one to talk. You're the one who's got me on my knees in a dark alley.
And these cops? What do they get?
Keeping the Fix happy.
You never know when you can use a crooked cop.
Keep going. I want to know how you got Lionel Dolby.
So you want to know how to play the Big Con.
In this case, you might say I want to know how not to play the Big Con.
So how'd you get caught?
Suits used to say that in any con, sooner or later someone's going to start asking the right questions. Usually, it takes a little longer.
I can see why you liked her.
That was it. We had our crew. Now we needed the Mark.
But there were other factors.
Factors that weren't clear to me until now.
He's just as crooked as the next guy. You'd think he'd have more important things to do with tax payer dollars.
Cue the fucking violins. Come on... It's getting cold.
Nice.
We got our stake. Now we need to find our guy in Gillett's bank.
Thanks. Did you know you shouldn't light three cigarettes with a match?
Back in WWI or WWII, one of the WW's, if you took the time to light three cigarettes with one match, some Nazi would be able to figure out where you were. Then, well... It was the last cigarette you and your two buddies ever had. So three on a match is bad luck.
You're a superstitious fucker.
Luck's a funny thing. Especially the bad.
Like what?
Having a gun pointed at you for one. It's not like breaking a mirror bad luck, but it's bad. Three on a match, black cats... Believe it. Believe it all.
She had you tempting fate.
My father used to play the same fucking lotto numbers with these other guys in the pharmacy. The same numbers everyday for sixteen years. One day he gets pissed off, tells them he's out and plays his own numbers. They hit the Lucky Seven for one point two million.
Is that what it was, Jake? Was it love?
You know when the first con was ever played? It was when Adam fell for Eve in the Garden of Eden.
So much for honor among thieves. You would have cut loose your friends, your girl...
I was doing it for them.
BULLSHIT! You were scared, Jake! You lost your nerve! You lost your confidence! You weren't being noble. You weren't trying to save anybody but yourself! Admit it.
It's not true.
Yes it is, Jake! Yes it is! They were right there for you. She was right there for you! Look at her!
We were back on.
After you cut her loose.
She walked.
Alrlght, alrlght. What happened today?
Today? Started off great...
Alright... Turn around. She doesn't get shit, unless I get that money. Where is it?
Probably safe in the hands of the Federal Government.
Oh, Jake. You disappoint me. And you just let Lily here down again. What was it you said about playing the big con?
It's like putting on a play, where everyone knows their part except for the mark.
Like putting on a play... Guess some people forgot their lines.
Guess so.
So why don't you take a deep breath, Jake, and I'll count to ten. One. Two. Three...
Hey, Jake... When am I gonna get to play the Inside?
Gordo plays the inside. You're the Shill.
Yeah, but come on... All I get to do is cry and get insulted.
What are you talking about? You should get a fucking Academy Award for the Shill work you do. We got it down cold, Al. You don't want to jinx it by changing something up, do you?
I'm gonna go get eggrolls. Anyone want eggrolls?
It can erase all those things about you that you wish didn't exist.
It's Alfonse. I want to settle up. I haven't been ducking you. I told you I'd get it.
Uh, right... And that was it. That's when we decided to start our own business. No more shithead bosses.
I envy you guys. Taking a chance like that.
What do you do over at your bank, Grant?
What do I do? I'm the VP of Finance.
Here's where a little research comes in handy. Corporate banks give out VP titles like calendars. It's a small lie, but now we're sure he's playing.
Maybe you can help us understand what's so hard about getting a corporate loan.
Well, typically speaking, they're not. As long as you can demonstrate 
A capacity for gross fund recovery. Yeah, we got that part.
That's right. And tech firms... They 'tend to scare people off.
They scare people off because most people lack vision. Vision and balls. Present company excluded of course.
Banks need to know how they're going to get their money back.
We know exactly how we're going to make the money back. There in lies the Catch22
I don't follow.
Listen, what I'm about to tell you, I'm telling you in confidence, okay? Have you ever heard of a company called Big.Com?
Big.Com. That Internet thing.
Right. The guys who started that did what a lot of companies in the Valley do. They get a good idea, shop it around, raise some capital, then sell it off to a bigger company. Microsoft, Intel, Oracle, whatever. The beauty of it is, they've pretty much sold the company before they're even real. The bigger company is already set to buy it, all they want to do is make sure that the idea actually works. So they get some start up capital, make it work, then sell it for like five times the initial loan.
Sort of like a letter of intent.
Exactly. But the Catch22 is that you can't tell anyone about the offer, because if it's public, you could start a bidding war and that's considered a breach of etiquette. It could kill a deal. But, wait too long and you're not considered hot anymore.
And you have this letter of intent?
Yes. That's why I wish there were guys willing to take a chance and live a little.
We had to finalize the deal.
Everything looks in order.
This has to happen fast.
I know. It won't go unnoticed.
There'll be red flags.
What's this?
You need some convincing. Consider it a convincer.
Let's just slow down for a second...
You're worried about recouping the loan. I already told you.
No, I understand that. What I mean... What I'm trying to say... I was actually wondering about... Well, my cut.
Then there it is. Ashby gets the itch.
The standard ten.
Ten percent. Of how much?
Two million.
Same thing with playing a con. You have to be able to see that deep.
Jake? Right. Uhhuh... Uhhuh... Yeah, it's going through 
But I'm not that late. You didn't have to give away my seat.
I wasn't sure if you'd make it.
Thanks for playing along. I just have to sit for a while.
Tough day?
Brutal day. They say the streets are lined with money down here, but I guess you have to know the secret handshake. What are you drinking?
Uh, Maker's Mark. Rocks.
My name's Grant. Grant Ashby.
Oh god. I'm overbearing and rude. Lily. Lily Finn.
So, what do you do?
It's more like what aren't I doing. My partners and I are trying to secure start up capital for a small tech company. We tried the venture capitalist route in the Valley, but then again who hasn't up there.
Silicon Valley?
That's right. So, brainiacs that we are, we thought we'd be innovative and relocate east. Try our luck with a straight corporate loan out here.
Can 
On me. For the seat. Cheers.
So we've been meeting with banks all day. It's amazing how many ways they can say "no" without ever using the word.
Well, typically, corporate loans are relatively simple matters, but you do need to demonstrate a capacity for gross fund recovery.
Don't tell me you started a tech firm here before us.
No, no. Nothing like that. I work in a bank.
Really? Wish we had met eight hours ago.
Oh. Well, thanks for the drink.
You're welcome. I was just going to ask you if you'd like to join us.
That Candyshe's the nicest girl I know!
She's about the most beautiful girl I ever seenI don't know if she's the nicest.
You're lucky he didn't cut your *nipples* off, man.
The good news, Jack, is you're half undressed for *swimmin'*...
Yeah, that cigarette ain't hard to find when you're properly undressed.
Rose Rose has runned away!
She took off in the night!
She took off on the bicycle, man.
You ever see a palm tree, Homer?
He ain't never been outta Maine!
Daddy, I'd like to be in that Wally's shoes *every* night.
You lucky you in your work boots tonight, girl...
What's lucky about that?
That sounds like you is in trouble already, Homer.
That's rightthat sounds like trouble to me.
We should drown that damn Jack in the vat!
Now, now, darlin'... Jack just needs to know what business he's in.
Yeah, you really showed him, Daddy you just about cut your own hand off, and all you cut off *him* was his clothes!
You oughta know you don't go to jail for cuttin' a guy's *clothes*. Ain't that right, Homer?
Now, now, Jackthat just ain't right.
You just stay out of trouble, Homer!
Where do you think you're going?
You gotta let me go, Daddy. Please...
You ain't goin' nowhere in the middle of the night, girl!
I ain't your business no more, Daddy. Please let me go.
You just go inside, Homer. We don't need no help.
That's right, Homer. This ain't your business.
Where's your manners? Make room for Homer, so's he can enjoy the view.
What view?
*What* view?
Well, Muddy, we can look at all these angry stars Homer's been readin' to us about.
Don't let us make you nervous or nothin'we know you gotta job to do.
Yeah, we can wait all night for the water to come back onyou just go on and take your time.
It's that Vernonhe keeps askin' where you and Homer and Rose Rose is at.
Tell that Vernon to mind his own business, Muddy.
I told him that you all is sick.
Tell him what you want, Muddy*you* is the crew boss today.
She's *good* with that knife! She's real fast. She's a lot better with that knife than *you* is, Muddy! And who do you suppose taught her?
*You* taught her, I suppose...
That's right! A girl's gotta know how to defend herself, don't she?
That what happenyou lost you only daughter so's you killed yourself! That's what we say, all right.
That's right. I know you understand how I feel, Homeryou is breakin' them rules, too. Ain't that right?
They told me I was too old to serve.
They told Muddy his feet was too flat!
Ain't you gonna see what it is, Homer?
Mind your own business, Peaches.
Sorry, Homer...
You all take care of yourself, too, Homer!
We see you next harvest.
Don't this place look like home?
It look nicer then home!
What have you two been doin' to make it look so nice?
You pickin' nothin' but cider apples, PeachesI hope you understand that.
They ain't dropsI picked 'em off the tree!
Then you pickin' 'em too fastthey ain't no better than drops to me. See that bruise, and that one? *Half* of these is bruised! Look at this one! It ain't got no stem! You might as well *step* on 'em, toothey only good for cider.
They're *outrageous*, them rules!
Who *live* here in this cider house, Peaches? Who grind them apples, who press that cider, who clean up the mess, and who just plain *live* here... just breathin' in the vinegar? Somebody who *don't* live here made them rules. Them rules ain't for *us*. *We* the ones who make up them rules. We makin' our *own* rules, every day. Ain't that right, Homer?
When the plane was hit, the crew chief and the radioman jumped close together. The copilot jumped third. All on Captain Worthington's orders the captain was still flying the plane. None of the men of the ground could see the skythat's how thick the jungle was. They never saw the plane crashthey never *heard* it crash. They never saw Captain Worthington's parachute, either.
Why was he missing for twenty days?
Because the crew thought he'd gone down with the plane. They were hospitalized for almost a week in China before they were flown back to India. It wasn't until that they sorted through their gear...
Then it's malaria?
It's encephalitis B. He's recovering at Mount Lavinia Hospital, Ceylon. Uh... Captain Worthington is paralyzed. Waist down. He won't walk.
No autonomic effects... that's correct.
When will he be home, Major?
Four weeks or so, right around Halloween.
Do you know him?
*No*! I don't want to know him! He's doing *missionary* workin *India*! I wrote him *weeks* ago, but he's either too holy or too busy to answer. Maybe he got killed in the war!
I fail to see how someone courageous enough to make a commitment to a foreign mission is automatically to be dismissedthat part of the world requires precisely the kind of dedication that is needed here.
Does it *snow* in Bombay? One winter here and we'll be shipping him south, in a *coffin*!
You can't think that a man who has *served* under such conditions as exist over there will be in the slightest daunted by a little *snow* have you no idea how harsh and primitive and full of *disease* that part of the world is?
Then I suppose we can look forward to catching various diseases from him!
I fail to see how a little Christianity could *hurt* anyone here!
Anyway, I was just showing you this guy as an example of what's available I didn't think you'd be interested.
Who cares?
Now, now. He's a good boy.
Shit. We don't know what he is.
Jack, you gotta watch your language 'round my daughter.
I bet the view looks better from the Worthin'tons'.
You think so, Jack? Well... I wouldn't want to be in that Wally's shoes tonight.
That just ain't right, Jackyour cigarette's gonna end up in nine or ten gallons of this batch of cider! That ain't right.
Them people drinkin' that cider, they don't know there's a cigarette in there!
It's not that hard to find it in there, Jackit'll take you just a minute. You just gotta go fishin'.
You mean *swimmin'*. I ain't goin' in that vat to fish out no cigarette!
What business is you in, Jack? Just tell me what your business is...
Rose Rose?
Pretty, ain't it? You a plumber?
What's that?
It's just my heart.
What you got a picture of your heart for?
There's a little something wrong with it. Just this part herethe right ventricle. It's slightly enlarged.
So what?
Yes, so what. It's nothing serious, really. Just a small defect.
Do you like to read?
I can't read. Nobody taught me.
You ain't gettin' in no trouble, I hope.
No trouble.
I'm not in trouble.
Yeah, you is. I know when people is in trouble, and you is.
Give men that. I know how to do it.
Oh, I suppose you is a doctor, Homer?
Almost.
You okay, Rose?
I guess you must like watchin' me be sick...
I don't like watching anyone be sick.
You're not yet three months, are you?
Not yet. What do you know about it?
I know more than I want to know about it. Who's the father?
Don't trouble yourself about it, Homerthis ain't your business.
But you don't look very happy.
*Happy*! What are you thinkin'? How am I supposed to take care of a baby! I can't have a baby.
Rose, please listen. Whatever you want to do, I can help you.
What I mean is, if you don't want to... keep the baby, I know a place where you can go.
You think Daddy's gonna let me go anywhere? I ain't going *nowhere*.
Why don't you just go back to your pickin', Homer? I can take care of it myself!
Rose, listendon't *do* anything. You know, I mean to yourself. Please listen...
That's *it*?
That's it.
It means nothin' at all! And all this time I been *wonderin'* about it!
Don't mess in this, Homer, if you know what's good for you.
How long's this been going on, Muddy?
Long enough. You ain't gonna stop it.
"One: Please don't smoke in bed."
We heard that one already, Homer.
"Two: Please don't go up to the roof to eat your lunch."
Thanks, guys... I'd like to go with you. But I've got to move on.
Yeah, well... you could move on with *us*, man! You could move on somewhere *warm*!
What I mean is... I would like it very much if you thought you could be happy here, Homer.
Mrs. Worthington, I feel I'm very lucky to be here.
There's not a lot of work in the winter, and you'll have to tolerate Vernoneven Wally despises him, and Wally likes everyone.
I think Wally will be fine, Mrs. Worthingtonhe seems indestructible to me.
I don't know. Just promise me one thing.
Uh... sure.
Just promise me that, if there's a blizzard, you'll move into Wally's room until it's over.
Goodbye, Arthur. Homer, I'll see you tomorrow?
Right.
First pregnancy?
Yes, for both.
I presume you'd prefer handling the delivery.
All I said was, I don't want to perform abortions. I have no argument with *you* performing them.
You know *how* to help these women how can you not feel *obligated* to help them when they can't get help anywhere else?
One: it's illegal. Two: I didn't ask how to do ityou just showed me.
What *else* could I have showed you, Homer? The only thing I can teach you is what I know! In every life, you've got to be of use.
There was no visible wound?
No. The fetus was dead. Her uterus was virtually *disintegrating*my stitches pulled right through the tissue!
It looks like scurvy.
Scurvy! Ah yes, the curse of the old time sailor, suffering long periods at sea with no fresh fruits or vegetables. Homer, Dorothy isn't a *sailor*!
It's obviously an aborticide.
Obviously.
Christ, it's oil of tansy!
I don't know it.
If you take enough of it, your intestines lose their ability to absorb Vitamin C.
In other words, scurvy.
Good boy. Good job. And you call yourself "not a doctor"! Keep an eye on hershe's in trouble.
Fuzzy is not uncommon. I tell you, there's something about the premature babies of alcoholic mothers. They seem susceptible to every damn thing that comes along.
I haven't read that.
I haven't, either. But you *will*. The morons who write the books should do a little research *here*.
But isn't Fuzzy just... well, underdeveloped?
When *doesn't* he have bronchitis? I wouldn't call his bronchial infections "underdeveloped." Would you?
Where's the name sheet?
Nobody's named this one yet.
It's my turn!
He doesn't like it. He's a boy, That's why.
Can't a boy be a Dorrit?
I don't think so.
You do it then.
Henceforth you shall be... Little Wilbur.
I'm not crazy about the "Little..."
Okay, he's just a Wilbur then.
We haven't had a Wilbur here in a year or so, have we? We used to have *dozens*!
I thought you took care of this. It always breaks in the same place. It's your splice, isn't it?
It's *your* splice! You blame me for everything!
I thought it was my turn.
It is. I'll get this. You go ahead.
How about expecting people to be responsible enough to control themselves to begin with?
How about this child? You expect *her* to be responsible?
It's just a marvel to me that you still have such high expectations of people.
I'm happy I amuse you.
Try to look at it this way. What choice does Buster have? What are his options? Nobody will ever adopt him.
Try to look at it *this* way. Buster and I are sitting right here beside you. We could have ended up in the incinerator!
Happy to be alive, under any circumstancesis that your point?
Doubtless you'll let me know what immensely worthwhile or at least *useful* thing it is that you find to do.
I wasn't intending to leave here in order to be entirely uselessI expect I'll find some ways to be of use.
In other parts of the world, I suppose there are other ways.
Of course.
Are you really so *stupid* that you imagine you're going to find a more gratifying life? What you're going to find is people like the poor people who get left hereonly nobody takes care of them as well! And you won't be able to take care of them, either. There's no taking care of *anybody* not out there!
You know I'm grateful for everything you've done for me...
I don't need your gratitude.
I don't need thisI know all about my condition.
It's your heartyou ought to take it with you.
I am not a doctor.
You know everything I know, plus what you've taught yourselfyou're a better doctor then I am and you know it!
So. What should I do now?
Out back, there's a shed. It's just a mess. If that shed was better organized, I could put my truck in there.
It's big enough to keep you out of the war, I suppose. Ain't that right?
Right.
Stop it, Homer. They aren't our rules. We didn't write them. I don't see no reason to read them.
Okay...
That's better. I can tell you got yourself some education. Them's good hands you got, Homer. Them hands you got, they know what they're doin' ain't that right?
I guess so...
Are we supposed to be up here? The rules said...
Homer, you the only one who's read them rules, so you the only one who feels like he's doin' somethin' wrong.
Cider don't have no taste till later in Octoberit's too watery now, when we're usin' just them early Macs and them Gravensteins. You don't get no *good* cider till you're pickin' them Golden Delicious and them Winter Bananas, them Baldwins and them Russerts...
What about the worms? Most of these apples are the dropsoff the ground, right? There have to be worms.
Of *course* there's worms, Homer! And what is them worms, really? They just *protein*, them worms! They is *good* for you!
Slow down, Homerdon't be in such a big hurry.
This is easyI'm not hurrying.
You still doin' it too fast!
I didn't see where you was pickin' this mornin', Homer, but you musta worked up a big appetite. You look like you're serious about gettin' to your lunch today!
Is it true?
I think you been stayin' up too late at night, Homer.
You're actually having sex with your own little girl? Is that possible?
Ain't nobody havin' *sex* with my little girl, Homerthat's somethin' a father knows.
You're lying. How can you... with your own daughter!
Homer, don't you know what business you in? You don't wanna go into no business with me, Homerain't that right?
Go on, cut my clothes. I've got other clothes.
But she's your *daughter*...
And I *love* her! There ain't nobody else gonna treat her as good as I do! I wouldn't do nothin' to hurt her, Homeryou must know that.
Please listen to me! *Both* of you...
You forget yourself, Homer. This here's my daughter! You got your own mess to deal withain't that right?
What business is you in, Homer?
Mr. Rose, I'm in the *doctor* business. If you want, I can help you. You don't have to go anywhere.
What's that? What's it called?
One cervical stabilizer, two sets of dilatorsDouglas points. One medium sized curette, one small; one medium speculum, one large; two vulsellum forceps.
There ain't no *almost* about this stuff, Homerain't that right?
Merthiolate, ether, vulval pads, gauzelots of gauze.
When it comes to this, you is the real thingis that what you sayin'?
I'm stayin', Homer.
Okay. Then you can be of use.
If that was your knife, Muddy, I wanna thank you for givin' it to her no girl should be goin' *hitchhikin'* if she don't got a good knife with her.
Where'd she get you?
She just plan misunderstand meI was tryin' to give her my knife, I was just reachin' to touch her hand. But I understand if she misunderstand meit's all my fault, ain't that right?
There's more than one laceration, more than one cut.
That's 'cause I sticked my *own* knife in the woundafter she go, I sticked my *own* knife in there. I poked it all around, I just tryin' to find the same place she got me.
Let me hear you say that! I so unhappy she runned away that I killed myself that what happen here, ain't that right?
Right?
I'm sorry. They're not used to seeing a car like this.
It's okayI don't mind.
So, now, uh... you're not... I mean, do *you* do the
No. Dr. Larch will be performing the procedure.
Ah, well... okay. Good! I just wondered...
What kind of plane are you flying?
A B24 Liberator.
Liberator...
Have you enlisted?
They wouldn't take me. I'm Class IV I've got a heart defect.
Really! Is it serious?
No, it's not serious. I'm just not supposed to get excited. You know no strain, no stress. I try to keep calm all the time.
Has anyone offered you anything to eat?
Actually, someone did. I just didn't think I could eat anything.
I wonder if you might give me a ride.
Sure! Be glad to! Uh... a ride where?
Where are you going?
We're heading back to Cape Kenneth.
I think I'd probably like the apple business.
You're a little overqualified, aren't you?
No, I'm not. I need a job.
The only jobs are picking jobs. Picking apples is truly boring.
This is all normal. Don't worry. The abortion procedure... it affects you. It's the ether, too. It'll take a little time.
I don't *have* any time. There's a *war*!
It's all very normal.
"Burma run" because you fly over Burma...
*And* over the Himalayas. That's called flying over the hump.
At what altitude?
I've got thirtyfive minutes to climb to fifteen thousand feetthat's the first mountain pass.
What lousy luckI mean your orders... to draw an assignment like that!
Actually, I volunteered.
Uh, look... if you're serious about wanting a job, picking apples isn't that boring.
Oh, I would love that, Wally.
They're migrants.
Migrants?
Yes. They pick fruit, all kinds. They travel up and down the coast with the seasons. The trick to Mr. Rose is, you have to let him be the boss.
It's almost like flying.
What about the trees?
The trees are flakantiaircraft fire from those geeks on the ground.
Uh... I'm shipping out sooner than I thought. I just wanted to be sure you were settled inand happy enough, considering... Are you bored stiff? Or can you stick it out for a bit?
Uh... actually, picking apples is as much excitement as I want for a while. I'm grateful for the job.
You're the one who's helping *me*, Homer. You're going to give my mom a little peace of mind while I'm gone. Candy, too.
Well, sure... that's good, then. All I mean is, I'm lucky I met you.
I don't think so, Homer. *I'm* the lucky one.
Did you bite it?
I don't remember.
It looks like you bit itit'll be all right.
Maybe I was kissing someone and he bit me.
No, you did it yourself. Maybe in your sleep.
I must have been *dreaming* of kissing someone.
Homer... doesn't King Kong think the woman is his *mother*?
Uh, surethat's what Kong thinks, all right.
That's why Kong loves her!
"I was a posthumous child. My father's eyes had closed upon the light of this world six months, when mine opened on it."
His father's dead, right?
Uh... it's the end of October.
Is that soon?
Don't get too excited, Fuzzy.
Why can't we have pumpkins for Christmas, too? We don't get any good presents at Christmas, anyway.
Is *your* father dead?
Cirrhosisit's a disease of the liver.
*Liver* killed him?
*Alcohol* killed himhe drank himself to death.
But did you know him?
Barely. It hardly mattered that I knew him.
Did you know your mother better?
She's dead now, too. She was a nanny.
What's a nanny do?
She looks after other people's children.
Did you grow up around here?
No. She was an immigrant.
What's an immigrant?
Someone not from Maine.
Her temperature is a hundred and four.
How old are you, dear? Thirteen?
That's a heavy sedation.
You *bet* it's a heavy sedation! The fetus is unexpelled, her uterus is punctured, she has acute peritonitis, and there's a foreign object. I think it's a crochet hook.
I don't know! He's just leaving you're the one who says he needs to see the world! *That's* what he'll dohe'll see the world!
He's leaving...
"Homer Wells, born Portland, Maine, March 2, 1915..."
Homer was born *here*, in, what was it, 1922?
"...graduated Bowdoin College, 1935, and Harvard School of Medicine, 1939."
You mean they'll replace you with someone who won't perform abortions.
Well, we can only guess about that, Edna. They *are* against the law.
So here is my candidate. What do you think?
But what about school records? Homer doesn't have any *diplomas*...
Or that he can't be bothered to write us a proper letter? A dissertation on apples, we don't need!
He probably doesn't make much money picking appleshe must have had to pay to send them, too.
I wouldn't worry, Edna, that he doesn't have money. If he gets hungry, he can pick his dinner!
I just wanted to ask you...
Edna! Come dance with me! Let's be foolish tonight.
Does he *know* he's supposed to be in India? Does he even *want* to come back?
I thought they might take me.
They wanted a girl.
Nobody ever wants me!
You're one of the best, Curlywe couldn't let just anyone take you.
Dr. Larch wouldn't let just anyone take *any* of us!
That's true.
Nobody's asked for me, have they?
Nobody special enough, Curly.
You mean somebody asked?
Only the right people can have you, Curly.
So many children. Are they all orphans?
Well, this *is* an orphanage.
I'm okayI can walk.
I don't want you to walkI want to carry you. Should I put the top up? It might get cold.
Nokeep it down. I want to feel the air.
Wally thinks apples are boring.
I never said they were boring.
You said, "Apples aren't exactly flying."
Well, they aren't.
There! You said it was boring.
Well, *picking* them is! It's about as exciting as... walking!
I love you, Wally.
I love you, too. See you tomorrow.
I was just showing Homer the orchards... kind of a geography lesson.
I know what you've been doing.
You've been giving him a *flying* lesson!
He *loved* it! Didn't you?
He thinks people *like* to get whacked by branches.
*Homer* liked it! Didn't you?
How is that Wally doing?
Oh, he's fine! I just heard from him. He's bombing all these places...
Hi...
Hi...
I've got some more clothes for you I just keep forgetting to bring them with me.
I don't need no more clothes, thank you.
Rose, I know what's going on. Homer told me. I got pregnant, tooabout a year ago. I've been through this.
You ain't been through what I been through, Candy.
Yes, I *have*!
I know where you can go. Homer and I can take you...
I can't go nowhere.
Why?
You can trust me. Is it Jack? It's not Jack, is it? It's *Muddy*! Is it Muddy?
No. It ain't Muddy. Muddy's just...
So, Mrs...
Candy. Candy Kendall.
How many months are you?
Two.
Is your family in the apple business, too?
No, but I work thereI like it. My dad's a lobsterman.
I've never seen a lobster.
Really?
I've never seen the ocean, either.
I know.
He's going to be dropping bombs on Mandalay! They're going to be shooting at him!
Where's Mandalay?
Burma!
Oh...
I can't have a baby alone. I don't even know if he's coming back!
I understand.
I'm a little worried about the... ...about how much bleeding is okay.
It should taper off tomorrow, but it can come back again. You have cramps? They'll ease up, almost entirely. As long as the bleeding isn't heavy, it's normal.
I guess I'll see you around the orchards. Thanks for everything.
Sure... I'll see you around.
So. Not bored yet?
I'm *never* bored! It's all very... different for me... here.
Uh... have you been *feeling* okay?
When I'm not thinking about Wally. I'm not good at being alone. Oh, goodness. You meant... yes, I'm fine. I... ...I don't suppose you've seen a lobster yet.
You have to come to my dad's lobster pound and see one, then.
Okay...
I better go.
I don't think Mr. Rose would leave without you.
A movie *outside*?
Yes. But it's closed all the time now, because of the blackout.
People watched the movies in their cars?
When they watched at all. Do you like movies?
Yes! I've only seen one, though.
You've seen only one movie? Which one?
"King Kong". It's really good.
But you looked as if you liked it.
I *did* like it. All I said was, "It's not 'King Kong'."
First she loved him, then she didn't, then no one else could have him...
She *did* love him! How many women have you known?
And what did she die of, exactly?
She was torn apart! She died of a broken heart.
Oh, sure!
What's the *medical* explanation?
Well, she was in a weakened condition... I don't know! What about "King Kong"?! Is that medically possible?
You're a natural. You were born to drive a car like this.
You think? Maybe I was. I love this place!
The screen is enormous! Imagine King Kong up *there*! Have you seen a lot of movies here?
Yes... and no. When you come here, you don't really care about the movie.
What are you so crazy about the movies for?
It was my favorite night at the orphanagemovie night. We'd race into the dining hall. Of course everyone wanted to sit in front, so we'd be packed in so tight you could feel the kid next to you breathing.
At least you were never lonely.
I didn't say that. Growing up in an orphanage, you're always lonely. You're just never alone.
You don't miss it?
I miss things. I miss... people. I miss reading to the boys.
But you had so much *responsibility*.
I never *asked* for any responsibility.
Just a little privacy.
Privacy is exactly the point of drive in movies.
Did you come here with Wallyto *not* watch movies?
Sometimes... movies mostly bore Wally.
Ahha. So what is thata radio?
The *speaker*. For the movie sound.
How could you not *care* about the movie?
You just cuddle. You come to hug... to kiss. You don't *come* here to watch the movie.
That's what *I'd* come here for. I'd watch the movie.
Not with the right girl you wouldn't.
Aren't you worried that people will cut their feet?
Nobody will swim here until next summer. By then, the water will have rubbed the glass smooth against the sandthere won't be any sharp edges.
I *know* this was right.
Right.
Just tell me. Do you want me to go? Do you want me to stay?
It will be okay.
*What* will be okay?
We have to wait and see. I think that, for *everything* in life, you have to wait and see.
Olive told me. You might have told me yourself.
I'm just waiting and seeing. Like you said.
Do you think I'm having a good time? Do you think I'm just *teasing* you? Do you think I *know* whether I want you or Wally?
So we should "wait and see." For how long?
I grew up with Wally. I began my adult life with him.
Fine. That's all there is to it then.
No! That's not all there is to it! I love you, tooI *know* I do.
Okay, okayI know you do, too.
It's a good thing I didn't have that baby, isn't it?
We should take her to St. Cloud's. That much is obvious, isn't it? Let her make up her mind when she gets there...
I told her! She doesn't feel she can do that. Something about her father not letting her go anywhere...
Well, we have to help her!
She won't go to St. Cloud's!
Well, we can't force her. It's her decision.
You don't understand! It's her father...
Mr. Rose *knows*?
He's the *father*! He's her baby's father!
Wait... *wait*! Are you sure?
We've got to keep her away from that bastard!
Just tell me. I'll do whatever you want to do.
Nothing.
Isn't that like waiting and seeing?
No. Nothing is nothing. I want Wally to come home. I'm afraid to see him, too.
I know. Is *that* nothing.
No, don'tthat's something. Nothing is nothing. Don't even look at me. I want...
Please don't move, don't go anywhere.
*Go* anywhere? Of course not! That would be *doing* something, wouldn't it? We wouldn't want to *do* something. Let's just sit here all night!
If you're trying to be funny, Homer...
I'm not trying to be anythingI'm just doing nothing! If I wait and see long enough, thenwith any luck I won't *ever* have to make up my mind! Decisions can be painful, after all...
Stop it! Just cut it out!
You got up! You *did* something! If you keep this up, you might be in danger of making a *decision*!
For God's sake, Homer, Wally's been shot down!
I know, I'm sorry.
He's *paralyzed*!
He's *alive*. He still loves you. So do I.
What do you want me to *do*?
Please don't make me say it again.
No, that's not itI just want to be sure I understand you.
I *helped* you not to think about Wally. You were so upsetyou couldn't stand worrying about him, about his being killed and not coming back but when you were with me, you could stop worrying... well, for a while, anyway. This is how I helped you, right?
Please... that's enough. I *loved* you, tooyou know I did.
"...did." Well, okay.
Please don't...
And now that Wally's coming back, and because he'll certainly *need* you...
You say that as though it's some awful thing! I never stopped loving Wally!
Do you think she'll be all right?
She knows how to take care of herself.
This came for you a couple of days ago. Olive asked me to bring it. With everything happening, I guess she forgot.
Sure. Thanks.
I know you don't think much of being needed, or of me for that matter...
I'm sorry for what I said about Wally needing you. It was... unnecessary.
No, I'm the one who should be sorry. You have every right to be angry.
No. You warned me. I didn't listen, but you warned me.
It's time somebody ate *them*.
I was lookin' for Wally's letter. I was gonna show it to Homer... They made him a captain already *Captain* Worthington!
Daddy, it's a letter to *me*.
He mentions Homer, too, you know.
Wally said to say, "Hello."
It's gettin' late. I think I'll pack it in.
Good night, Daddy.
How about him not needin' the friggin' compass! How about that?
Daddy, *please*...
Good night, kids. Don't catch cold it's gettin' cold already.
Good night, Daddy.
What'd she die of?
She died of *secrecy*, she died of *ignorance*...
What are you going to tell the little ones?
I'll tell them Fuzzy was adopted.
Why would the little ones believe that *anyone* would adopt him?
They'll believe it because they want to believe it.
Shouldn't we tell Homer?
If Homer wanted to know what was happening here, he could pick up a telephone and call us.
He *sniffs* that ether! I've seen him do it!
It's because he's too tired to sleep. He has to.
He *smells* like he could put you to sleep!
He's a doctor, Busterdoctors smell like ether.
*You're* a doctor, Homeryou don't smell like ether.
I'm *not* a doctor. I haven't been to medical schoolI haven't even been to high school!
But you've studied with the old man for *years*!
I'm *not* a doctor!
I'm sorry, Homer.
I mean your parents.
I know who you mean. I think about leaving here, but not to find *them*.
Why not?
Whoever they were, they didn't *do* any of the things parents are supposed to do. Dr. Larch did those things, and Nurse Edna, and Nurse Angela.
Yeah. But sometimes I wish I could meet mine, anyway.
What for, Buster? What would you do if you met them?
Uh... I'd like to show them that I can cook, a little.
You cook very well!
And that I can drive a truck!
Better than I can!
Sometimes I want to meet them so I can kill them. Just sometimes.
Homer, you know I would never kill anyoneyou know I wouldn't.
I know.
I think Mary Agnes could kill someone.
I doubt it. She's just an...
What's she so emotional about?
I don't know. She got left here, like the rest of us, didn't she?
Only if you can afford it.
Try to think of nothing, Dorothy.
It's not ergot, it's not pituitary extract, it's not oil of rue...
It claims to restore monthly regularity.
Wilbur, the adopting couple is waiting in your office.
Life is waiting.
I was dreaming about you. How beautiful you were!
You weren't dreaming about me.
I was!
Then I wasn't beautiful.
You were! You *are*! It was fantastic.
It was just the ether, Wilbur...
They want to replace me! The Board of Trustees wants to *replace* me!
They just want you to hire some new help.
Some new *things* would be useful. I don't need any "new help."
He'll need clothes... some money...
Let him try to *make* some money! That's part of "seeing the world," isn't it?
Oh, just stop it! You knew this was going to happen. He's a young man.
He's still a boyout in the world, he's still a boy.
Just find him some clothes, Wilbur. He could use some clothes.
He is a goddamn psychiatristof *course* he wants to "help"! He'd be happy if he could help *commit* me!
It's that Mrs. Goodhall you have to be careful of, Wilbur.
One has to be more than "careful" of Mrs. Goodhallshe has sufficient Christian zeal to start her own country! I'd like to give her a little ether.
This is *your* life story, Wilbur! You just changed the dates!
"An internship and two years of training at the Boston Lyingin, South End Branch. For his age, he was judged an accomplished gynecological obstetrical surgeon; he is also experienced in pediatric care..."
You *invented* him! You've completely made his up!
Don't you understand? The board is going to *replace* me! That's what the "new blood" is *for*!
These *credentials* are against the law!
We all know who trained Homerhis credentials are as good as mine are. Don't you be holy to me about the *law*! What has the law done for any of us here?
Oh my, yes! This is a *far* superior tasteand crisp, too! You know, so many apples are disappointingly mealy. I wonder of most of the apples in my life weren't meant for pies!
Wilbur, he picked them for us himself...
You don't find it depressing that Homer Wells is picking apples?
I suppose it wouldn't hurt to *meet* him. What's his name again?
Dr. Homer Wells.
I just hope he won't expect us to say *Grace* all the time.
Permission to come aboard, sir.
Permission granted.
May I ask, where are you bound?
San Francisco. And you?
As it happens, I'm headed for Frisco myself.
Would you do us the honor of joining us? We're just sitting down at mess. Pork chops and gravy, cranberries, baked potatoes with all the trimmings, fresh baked bread, apple pie...
No please, join me. Some sundried fish strips, a few eyeballs, some gills to munch on.
What do you expect, from the guy who stole a kid's bicycle when his truck broke down?
Borrowed. I borrowed it.
How'd it go?
Great. Terrific. The good guys won one for a change.
You what?
It was fifteen minutes late.
I checked the weather, you had the jet stream, you could have made it up.
But I might not have.
Jesus. I got it working... You have no idea how hard it was... They're finally a team...
I'm touched.
You fucked us over.
The point of FedEx, as I understand it, is to make the damn connection.
I was making a point.
What? Let Paris hold its plane? Let Memphis take care of it? Let somebody down the line clean up your mess?
Every person counts, every package counts, that's my point.
You know what your problem is? You just see the packages in front of you. You don't see the big picture.
Baloney. I do see the damn "big picture."
I didn't know we had sailboats.
It's a ketch Kelly and I had chartered.
For all those vacation days you got coming.
And never take.
Look, I'm sorry about your plane. But I couldn't risk being late into Memphis.
Forget it.
You know General McLelland, he wouldn't attack unless he had everything just right. Finally Abe Lincoln came to him and said, General, if you're not going to use my army, could I borrow it for a while? So he gave it to Grant and Grant just said, let's go.
I'm from Arkansas. Tell me a story with Robert E. Lee in it and maybe I'll pay attention.
We're warriors, not desk jockeys. We've got to be bold. You always want all your ducks lined up. But nothing's 100 percent. It's always 6040, maybe 5149. Hell, I'd take 4060. Then roll the dice.
That's why you're a gambling man.
That's why I'm running foreign and you're not. That's why you're not married and I am.
For the third time.
Take the plunge, admit your mistakes, move on to tomorrow. That's FedEx, that's women, that's life.
You are one sick fucker.
I'm trying to help you here. There's Warsaw, there's this 
This was nothing like Warsaw. I held the truck then minutes, it's not that big a deal.
A hundred rubles St. Petersburg hits 95 percent in a month.
Ninety five percent? Just give me the money now.
Talk is cheap. Are we on or not?
We're on.
Malaysia's tanking. We're meeting in ten in operations.
Right. Get me everything on Indonesia, New Guinea, all the way to Australia.
Hello?
Stan, it's Chuck...Chuck Noland...
God damn! God damn! Chuck, it's you!
It's me.
You're fucking dead!
I'm most definitely not dead. And as I recall, you're the sick fucker.
I beat the odds!
You beat 'em to shit, pal! Jesus!
Hello.
This is Amber. Her boyfriend lost his foot in a shark attack.
How about we go somewhere else?
Want to see my raft?
This stinks really bad.
You should have smelled me.
Cool ropes.
I braided them.
Must have taken a hell of a long time.
Time I had lots of.
You were how long on this?
Fortythree days.
When I first showed up, I thought you'd lost your fucking marbles.
I never thought it would end. Then it did. It was so great to be saved, I couldn't stop laughing.
To Wilson.
To Wilson.
You've been over the line and you came back. You've been saved, hallelujah!
Hallelujah.
I'm serious. The burning bush, the big picture, the words in neon...
What's it all about? It's about being so thirsty you'd crush a fish's backbone to suck out the spinal fluid  that's what it's about.
To life. Fuck 'em if they can't take a joke.
To life.
That's all there is.
Believe me I know.
Digital laser readers.
Digital laser readers. Wow. Terrific.
Take your time.
What?
That's what it's about.
Being patient. Don't rush things. I get it.
Not just that. Take your time. Use it. Live it.
Deep, real deep.
What, then?
Deliver this package. Then, I dunno.
You want that delivered, we'll deliver it. That's what we do.
I need to do it.
Finish what you started. You haven't changed, Chuck. It's still you.
Thanks. For everything.
No sweat.
Kamal is not here.
Who is this? Where is Kamal?
It is Ibrim, I, I am a sorter.
What's going on down there?
Kamal is not here. We are very defused.
Who's in charge then, where is Chinn?
Trying.
Kamal, you're breaking up. Can you hear us?
Okay. After three years the PTR reverts to tape storage, which is okay because we access it through the CPC. Here it is. Ten packages from the same sender. Baku. Delhi. St. Petersburg. The guy was a real road warrior. This package was Kuala Lampur. No activity in his account after this package. No forwarding addresses after K.L.
What about the sender?
Sure. Bettina Peterson. Marfa, Texas. Let's run a current check.
Hmmm. Durango, Colorado; Asheville, North Carolina, then...canceled her account.
Can you find her?
You're looking at a Level III search. For your Level III, you gotta have E4 authorization. I don't have it.
What happened to your pants?
Mom, meet Jango.
It seemed like she had such a good time last time.
It's nothing you did, Mom, believe me.
Look, I help take care of the place. You got my check, didn't you Mom?
That new roof, that's your doing.
Mom, this is a farm. We've got real strawberries growing outside, we've got real cream.
Oh no, the prodigal son's home. We bring out the store bought.
Maybe I should take a few days off. Roger's working now, you could use some help around here...
Don't you even think about it.
The place is falling apart.
I'm doing fine.
Doing great, Mom, don't worry about me.
There's settled folks, and there's nomads. You're just not a settled folk. You never belonged here.
When'd you start working here?
Roger got me on. I wasn't doing anything, and  but you're back, you're really back. I would have come to Memphis, but 
I wanted to come here.
I've got all this back pay coming. Why don't you let me get you a place in town?
This is my home. I'm part of the wallpaper.
What a journey you've had. It seems more than a person should have to bear.
The tide saved me, Mom. I lived by it. I'm just wondering where it will take me next.
Bless us O Lord, and these thy gifts, which we are about to receive, from thou bounty, through Christ the Lord. Amen.
Let's eat.
Thought you were going to bring her.
So did I.
But chickens?
Sixty three pounds consumed per capita, up from twenty seven in 1960. Going to pass beef. Chicken's global. No religious taboos. You don't see your Hindus and your Muslims boycotting poultry.
True enough. No sacred chickens nowhere, so far as I know.
Really?
Come on down to the plant. It's state of the art. We're doing for chickens what FedEx did for the delivery business.
Just don't count 'em before they hatch.
Need some help?
You bet I do. High tide comes right up to this road.
You're not out of Pascagoula, are you?
No.
I used to drive one of those. A long time ago.
Hey, once a driver, always a driver. You want a lift? I've just got one more pickup.
Sure.
You're Chuck Noland.
Yeah.
My favorite doctor. What's the verdict?
Under the circumstances your overall health is good. Those salt water boils you picked up on the raft are ulcerated, but they're healing nicely.
Sorry...sorry... Why do my joints still ache?
Dehydration. Vitamin deficiency. Protein deficiency. Any or all of the above.
All I ate was fish. That's solid protein.
Protein digestion is very costly in water usage.
Which I didn't have.
And fish are very low in fat, which is energy inefficient. So you're going to burn up your own cells no matter how much you eat. Luckily you ate the eyes and pancreas, which contain some Vitamin C, so you didn't get scurvy.
I am one lucky guy.
Your body chemistry and your exposure to the elements would normally lead to irritability, depression, anxiety, periods of selfreproach. It's almost like schizophrenia. Different sides of your personality might come to life, speak out, act out.
But all that's behind me. I'm fine now.
If you say you are.
I most definitely say I am.
Doctor Hegel tells me he discussed the Vietnam POW syndrome with you.
Yes, yes he did.
You are aware of the potential disruptiveness on your loved ones when you return to your old life?
Not to mention on me.
Doc, I'm not on the island. I'm not on the raft. I'm alive. I'm so glad to be back, I can't tell you. I just want out of here.
Well, when that IV runs out, you're through with us. Just the dentist tomorrow.
I need the latest PDRs on St. Petersburg.
And how was your Christmas?
Terrific. Yours?
When's the next Jumbo?
The regular flight is scheduled for oh three hundred tomorrow.
Anything else?
There's a sweep leaving Memphis in an hour, goes through Sydney.
Sonofabitch!
Hey, be nice to it, it'll be nice to you.
Your eyes are puffy. Did you take Valium again?
You smell like formaldehyde.
My last chapter's in there, and the damn machine's jammed.
Let's take a look.
How was Russia?
Cold.
Don't overwhelm me with details, you know how I hate that. Did you get it fixed?
I thought I did.
Got to follow the paper path here.
Chuck, forget the Xerox. So Russia didn't turn out well?
Chuck.
What do you want me to say? That I thought I'd done a great job but it all turned to shit? That I might as well have gone sailing for all the good I did?
Yeah, tell me. Tell me all of it.
Merry Christmas eve.
Not if you work for FedEx.
Four four. A record.
You don't seem too happy about it.
Ah, the staff meeting could have gone better.
Let me guess, Russia came up?
Hey, look at you.
I figure, if we could take care of a puppy, we could, you know, take care of 
He is a cute thing.
He's your cute thing.
I can't even keep fish alive.
A puppy's got a little more personality than a fish.
And for you 
You know, for when you travel.
For when I travel?
I have to go. I'm on call for overflow down at the Hub.
A ring. I wanted a ring.
You did?
Look, I love the puppy. I love you. But I have to go.
You can't go now.
I have to.
You want to.
This isn't working out.
We're a little emotional here. It's Christmas, maybe we're overreacting.
"We're" not overreacting.
Could you watch Jango?
No.
I can't take him to work.
That's your dog.
It's our dog. It belongs to us.
There isn't any us.
Yes there is.
I'm sorry about the presents. I got a little carried away.
No, it was great. Maybe a little overkill 
I burned the Christmas tree.
Why didn't you come over, get mad at me, tell me what a stupid bitch I was.
I guess I hadn't thought through how I felt.
What, you were going to come over the next day all calm and say, Kelly that really made me mad? Don't tell me you're mad. Be mad. Be who you are right now.
Look, we'll do our trip as soon as I get back.
Don't even start.
Get back? From where?
Malaysia. They're holding the sweep.
Chuck, you're breaking my heart.
A week, max. Okay? Okay?
Go on. We'll be fine. I'll feed Jango to the frogs.
I'm sorry... I'm sorry...
Hey...hey...it's okay!
Right back, you said you'd be right back.
A few things came up. Or went down.
I got married.
I thought you might have.
I would never 
I know.
If I'd known you were alive 
I would have done the same thing.
I didn't want to. It just happened. One day Gary was there. He took care of everything. He took care of me. I was a mess.
You have any children?
Her name's Hannah.
Is that Jango?
No, this is Jack. Jango was hit by a UPS truck. Can you believe it?
What's that?
That's my sea anchor. My second one. Made it out of part of the sail. It keeps you from capsizing in a storm. In theory. And this, this I used to collect water. About half a cup a day.
All that time I waited to go on a cruise, and you went without me.
Yeah, well...couldn't be helped.
What's that, written on the sail?
My epitaph.
There was a coffin?
Yeah, coffin, headstone, the whole thing.
What was inside?
Your calendar, your cell phone, your whoo pig sooey hat, some pictures of that ketch you wanted.
That about sums it up.
Maybe now's when you tell me about it.
The plane went down. My friends died. I washed up on an island. Then I found these barrels, built the raft, and here I am.
Yeah?
The tide came in, the tide went out. I survived. That's the headline. I survived.
Don't overwhelm me with the details. You know how I hate that.
Come on. Try.
Cliches, mainly. Don't take anyone for granted. Don't sweat the small stuff. Live each day like it's your last.
So simple to say, so hard to do.
Not when you have no choice.
You hated being alone. Couldn't stand it. Busy every minute. Always plugged into something.
I didn't know what really being alone was. No one back here does.
This is so unfair.
That's what I told the fish I caught. But I ate them anyway.
You okay?
Great. Really.
What will you do?
I don't know. I really don't know.
I've got to get back to Memphis. Hannah's babysitter has finals.
It means a lot...that you came.
I had to come. To be sure you were okay.
I love you, Chuck.
You too.
I'm so glad you're alive.
Did you really steal a crippled kid's bicycle to make your deliveries, or is that just some bullshit story?
I didn't steal it, and he wasn't crippled.
What brings you out to the sticks?
Had a package to deliver.
You? Personally?
I had it on the island with me.
Must be a story there.
Yeah, a long one.
I've got lots of time.
So do I.
You came on a bicycle? No wonder it's so late.
There was an unavoidable delay.
Well, I have to say, I'm impressed. You never gave up.
No.
You know what happened to this?
As much as anybody.
Want to come in? Get dry for a minute.
Okay. Sure.
Hmmm. Feels like it might have gotten wet.
Possible. So you did those wings?
Yeah. A long time ago.
They're harder to do than they look.
Oh? You've tried?
Well, I do a little drawing 
Our apologies that it never made it to the recipient.
He was a sorry sonofabitch, and I'm sorry I ever married him.
I can't believe this. I  I  They are... You're a gifted artist. You're into something very powerful. Primal. Truly.
Well, not really, I 
You are. Yes you are. What gave you the idea to paint on that cave?
To tell you the truth  you did.
Do you...have any more packages to deliver?
No. that was the last one.
Just sit here, I'll get us some lunch.
Keep painting. Promise me.
Sure.
Save some for tomorrow.
Catch another fish tomorrow.
Shit! Shit! Shit!
Stay calm, identify the problem. Problem, rope fraying. Solution, fix rope.
With what? There's nothing to fix it with. This rope comes undone, you're going to drown.
Get up.
Feels so good to lie here.
Get up, damn you.
Can't. Need water.
You've had today's water.
Thirsty.
Come on, shape up, get going, you can do it.
No water, no work.
Okay look, I know you're tired, I know you're thirsty, but give it one more shot, you've just got to do a little more.
Do too much, I'll die.
Do too little you'll die.
Going to die anyway.
No more water, you said.
Take it.
No.
Take it, damn it.
No.
Wilson, do you believe this? Take the damn water.
If they can't see you, what's the point?
Survive today, that's the point.
Polaris, where are you? Maybe I'm too far south.
You don't know where you are. You missed the shipping lanes.
Moon's too bright.
You're putting off the inevitable.
I'm putting it off.
Get water!
Fix raft first.
Water water water 
You're beautiful. Marry me.
You idiot, if he dives, he'll capsize the raft.
What are you doing?
Can't kill another one. Can't. Can't kill my friends anymore.
You fucking bleeding heart, you kill or you die.
Why do they have to die for me?
They'd eat you if they could. They're laughing at you. Listen.
I'm lost. Goodbye.
No!
Look, just slip off the raft. The ocean would feel so good, the water's so soft and warm. Take a little swim. Sleep.
You quitter you quitter you quitter.
The sea is lovely, dark and deep.
But I have promises to keep. And miles to go before I sleep. And miles to go before I sleep. Got to fix the sea anchor. Use the sail.
Use the sail for a sea anchor and you won't move.
If I don't have a sea anchor I'll capsize.
Die tomorrow or die today.
That's death knocking, knocking on your door. Crazy little woman come knocking, knocking at my front door...
Grow up, stop being such a baby. Other people get through a lot worse.
Yeah, sure, what?
You know, Wilson, every now and then we should say thank you. Thank you God.
Thank you for fucking up my life.
What are you smiling about? They'll be back.
I'm dancing on the roof of the Peabody Hotel. With Kelly.
They're never going to see you. You're just another piece of trash in the ocean.
They're on autopilot.
They're always on autopilot. Or else it's night, or you're in the sun, or you're in the trough of a wave. They'll never see you.
Damn it! Don't be so negative!
I float. You sink. End of story.
I'm serious. I'm always going on about me, me, me. Enough about me. Your turn.
It's a fucking soccer ball, you idiot.
Shut up.
What's so damn funny?
You are.
Jesus.
Look again, asshole. It's a mirage.
It's real.
Nothing out there but ocean.
Let's get a second opinion. Wilson? What do you see?
What did it matter if FedEx was five minutes late one day? The next day we just start over again.
It matters. We do the best we can, that's all we have.
Then we've just got shit.
You can't make it.
Shut up. I don't feel like dying today.
It took this test package thirtytwo hours to get from Seattle to St. Petersburg, a distance of nine thousand miles. And then it took fortyone hours to get from our warehouse in St. Petersburg to here, a distance of, what 
Six kilometers. Four miles.
So how are we going to get this place shaped up?
It's bad.
Worse than Warsaw.
Nobody remembers that.
The failures they remember. It's the successes they forget.
Sam, Ferrari wants you to work for him at the Blue Parrot.
I like it fine here.
He'll double what I pay you.
Yeah, but I ain't got time to spend the money I make here.
Sorry.
Boss!
Yeah?
Boss, ain't you going to bed?
Not right now.
Ain't you planning on going to bed in the near future?
No.
You ever going to bed?
No.
Well, I ain't sleepy either.
Good. Then have a drink.
No. Not me, boss.
Then don't have a drink.
Boss, let's get out of here.
No, sir. I'm waiting for a lady.
Please, boss, let's go. Ain't nothing but trouble for you here.
She's coming back. I know she's coming back.
We'll take the car and drive all night. We'll get drunk. We'll go fishing and stay away until she's gone.
Shut up and go home, will you?
No, sir. I'm staying right here.
They grab Ugarte and she walks in. Well, that's the way it goes. One in, one out. Sam?
Yeah, boss?
Sam, if it's December 1941 in Casablanca, what time is it in New York?
Uh, my watch stopped.
I bet they're asleep in New York. I'll bet they're asleep all over America.
What's that you're playing?
Just a little something of my own.
Well, stop it. You know what I want to hear.
No, I don't.
You played it for her and you can play it for me.
Well, I don't think I can remember it.
If she can stand it, I can. Play it!
Yes, boss.
This sort of takes the sting out of being occupied, doesn't it, Mr. Richard?
You said it! Here's looking at you, kid.
And getting closer every minute. Here. Drink up. We'll never finish the other three.
The Germans'll be here pretty soon now, and they'll come looking for you. And don't forget there's a price on your head.
Where is she? Have you seen her?
No, Mr. Richard. I can't find her.
Uh, excuse me, please. Hello, Rick.
Hello Ugarte.
Huh. You know, Rick, watching you just now with the Deutsches Bank, one would think you'd been doing this all your life.
Well, what makes you think I haven't?
Oh, nothing. But when you first came to Casablanca, I thought 
 You thought what?
May I? Too bad about those two German couriers, wasn't it?
They got a lucky break. Yesterday they were just two German clerks. Today they're the 'Honored Dead'.
You are a very cynical person, Rick, if you'll forgive me for saying so.
Thank you. Will you have a drink with me please?
No.
I forgot. You never drink with... I'll have another, please. You despise me, don't you?
If I gave you any thought, I probably would.
But why? Oh, you object to the kind of business I do, huh? But think of all those poor refugees who must rot in this place if I didn't help them. That's not so bad. Through ways of my own I provide them with exit visas.
For a price, Ugarte, for a price.
But think of all the poor devils who cannot meet Renault's price. I get it for them for half. Is that so parasitic?
I don't mind a parasite. I object to a cutrate one.
Well, Rick, after tonight I'll be through with the whole business, and I am leaving finally this Casablanca.
Who did you bribe for your visa? Renault or yourself?
Myself. I found myself much more reasonable.
One moment. Tonight I'll be selling those for more money than even I have ever dreamed of, and then, addio Casablanca! You know, Rick, I have many friends in Casablanca, but somehow, just because you despise me you're the only one I trust. Will you keep these for me? Please.
For how long?
Perhaps an hour, perhaps a little longer.
I don't want them here overnight.
Don't be afraid of that. Please keep them for me. Thank you. I knew I could trust you.
Rick! Rick, help me!
Don't be a fool. You can't get away.
Rick, hide me. Do something! You must help me, Rick. Do something!
Make it official, if you like.
What is your nationality?
I'm a drunkard.
I understand you came here from Paris at the time of the occupation.
There seems to be no secret about that.
Are you one of those people who cannot imagine the Germans in their beloved Paris?
It's not particularly my beloved Paris.
Well, there are certain sections of New York, Major, that I wouldn't advise you to try to invade.
Aha. Who do you think will win the war?
I haven't the slightest idea.
Are my eyes really brown?
You will forgive my curiosity, Mr. Blaine. The point is, an enemy of the Reich has come to Casablanca and we are checking up on anybody who can be of any help to us.
My interest in whether Victor Laszlo stays or goes is purely a sporting one.
In this case, you have no sympathy for the fox, huh?
Not particularly. I understand the point of view of the hound, too.
Victor Laszlo published the foulest lies in the Prague newspapers until the very day we marched in, and even after that he continued to print scandal sheets in a cellar.
You'll excuse me, gentlemen. Your business is politics. Mine is running a saloon.
Good evening, Mr. Blaine.
I would advise you not to interfere.
I was willing to shoot Captain Renault, and I'm willing to shoot you.
Hello?
Put that phone down!
Get me the Radio Tower!
Put it down!
Where were you last night?
That's so long ago, I don't remember.
Will I see you tonight?
I never make plans that far ahead.
Give me another.
Sacha, she's had enough.
Don't listen to him, Sacha. Fill it up.
Rick, I'm sick and tired of having you 
 Sacha, call a cab.
Come on, we're going to get your coat.
Take your hands off me!
Hello, Louis.
How extravagant you are, throwing away women like that. Someday they may be scarce.
You know, I think now I shall pay a call on Yvonne, maybe get her on the rebound, eh?
When it comes to women, you're a true democrat.
The plane to Lisbon. You would like to be on it?
Why? What's in Lisbon?
The clipper to America.
It was a combination of all three.
And what in heaven's name brought you to Casablanca?
My health. I came to Casablanca for the waters.
Waters? What waters? We're in the desert.
I was misinformed.
Huh!
Rick, there's going to be some excitement here tonight. We are going to make an arrest in your cafe.
What, again?
This is no ordinary arrest. A murderer, no less.
If you are thinking of warning him, don't put yourself out. He cannot possibly escape.
I stick my neck out for nobody.
A wise foreign policy.
You know, Rick, we could have made this arrest earlier in the evening at the Blue Parrot, but out of my high regard for you we are staging it here. It will amuse your customers.
Our entertainment is enough.
I see. And what's Strasser doing here? He certainly didn't come all the way to Casablanca to witness a demonstration of your efficiency.
Perhaps not.
How observant you are. As a matter of fact, I wanted to give you a word of advice.
Yeah? Have a brandy?
Thank you. Rick, there are many exit visas sold in this cafe, but we know that you have never sold one. That is the reason we permit you to remain open.
I thought it was because we let you win at roulette.
That is another reason. There is a man who's arrived in Casablanca on his way to America. He will offer a fortune to anyone who will furnish him with an exit visa.
Yeah? What's his name?
Victor Laszlo.
Victor Laszlo?
Rick, that is the first time I have ever seen you so impressed.
Well, he's succeeded in impressing half the world.
It is my duty to see that he doesn't impress the other half. Rick, Laszlo must never reach America. He stays in Casablanca.
It'll be interesting to see how he manages.
Manages what?
His escape.
Oh, but I just told you. 
 Stop it. He escaped from a concentration camp and the Nazis have been chasing him all over Europe.
This is the end of the chase.
Twenty thousand francs says it isn't.
Is that a serious offer?
I just paid out twenty. I'd like to get it back.
Make it ten. I am only a poor corrupt official.
Okay.
Done. No matter how clever he is, he still needs an exit visa, or I should say, two.
Why two?
He is traveling with a lady.
He'll take one.
I think not. I have seen the lady. And if he did not leave her in Marseilles, or in Oran, he certainly won't leave her in Casablanca.
Maybe he's not quite as romantic as you are.
It doesn't matter. There is no exit visa for him.
Louis, whatever gave you the impression that I might be interested in helping Laszlo escape?
Because, my dear Ricky, I suspect that under that cynical shell you're at heart a sentimentalist.
Oh, laugh if you will, but I happen to be familiar with your record. Let me point out just two items. In 1935 you ran guns to Ethiopia. In 1936, you fought in Spain on the Loyalist side.
And got well paid for it on both occasions.
The winning side would have paid you much better.
Maybe. Well, it seems you are determined to keep Laszlo here.
I have my orders.
Oh, I see. Gestapo spank.
Yeah, you were saying?
Excuse me.
Oh, how do you do?
And you already know Herr Heinze of the Third Reich.
That makes Rick a citizen of the world.
I was born in New York City if that'll help you any.
Well, you were asking about Rick and here he is. Mademoiselle, may I present 
 Hello, Ilsa.
Oh, no, Rick never 
 Thanks. I will.
Oh, it's my party.
Another precedent gone. This has been a very interesting evening. I'll call you a cab. Gasoline rationing, time of night.
Well, Ricky. I'm very pleased with you. Now you're beginning to live like a Frenchman.
That was some goingover your men gave my place this afternoon. We just barely got cleaned up in time to open.
Well, I told Strasser he wouldn't find the letters here. But I told my men to be especially destructive. You know how that impresses Germans? Rick, have you got these letters of transit?
Louis, are you proVichy or Free French?
Serves me right for asking a direct question. The subject is closed.
Well, it looks like you're a little late.
Huh?
So Yvonne's gone over to the enemy.
Who knows? In her own way she may constitute an entire second front. I think it's time for me to flatter Major Strasser a little. I'll see you later, Rick.
As I suspected, you're a rank sentimentalist.
Yeah? Why?
Why do you interfere with my little romances?
Put it down as a gesture to love.
Well, I forgive you this time. But I'll be in tomorrow night with a breathtaking blonde, and it will make me very happy if she loses. Uh huh!
How can you close me up? On what grounds?
I am shocked, shocked to find that gambling is going on in here!
But you haven't any actual proof, and you know it. This isn't Germany or occupied France. All you can do is fine him a few thousand francs and give him thirty days. You might as well let him go now.
Ricky, I'd advise you not to be too interested in what happens to Laszlo. If by any chance you were to help him escape 
 What makes you think I'd stick my neck out for Laszlo?
Because one, you've bet ten thousand francs he'd escape. Two, you have the letters of transit, now don't bother to deny it. And, well, you might do it simply because you don't like Strasser's looks. As a matter of fact, I don't like him either.
Well, they're all excellent reasons.
Don't count too much on my friendship, Ricky. In this matter I'm powerless. Besides, I might lose ten thousand francs.
You're not very subtle, but you are effective. I, I get the point. Yes, I have the letters, but I intend using them myself. I'm leaving Casablanca on tonight's plane, the last plane.
Huh?
And I'm taking a friend with me. One you'll appreciate.
What friend?
Ilsa Lund. That ought to put your mind to rest about my helping Laszlo escape. The last man I want to see in America.
You didn't come here to tell me this. You have the letters of transit. You can fill in your name and hers and leave any time you please. Why are you interested in what happens to Laszlo?
Ilsa is Laszlo's wife. She probably knows things that Strasser would like to know. Louis, I'll make a deal with you. Instead of this petty charge you have against him, you can get something really big, something that would chuck him in a concentration camp for years. That would be quite a feather in your cap, wouldn't it?
It certainly would. Germany... Vichy would be very grateful.
Then release him. You be at my place a half hour before the plane leaves.
I'll arrange to have Laszlo come there to pick up the letters of transit, and that'll give you the criminal grounds on which to make the arrest. You get him, and we get away. To the Germans that last will be just a minor annoyance.
There's still something about this business I don't quite understand. Miss Lund, she's very beautiful, yes, but you were never interested in any woman.
Well, she isn't just any woman.
I see. How do I know you'll keep your end of the bargain?
I'll make the arrangements right now with Laszlo in the visitor's pen.
Ricky, I'm going to miss you. Apparently you're the only one in Casablanca who has even less scruples than I.
Oh, thanks.
Go ahead, Ricky.
You're late.
I was informed just as Laszlo was about to leave the hotel, so I knew I'd be on time.
I thought I asked you to tie up your watchdogs.
Oh, he won't be followed here.
You know, this place will never be the same without you, Ricky.
Yes, I know what you mean, but I've already spoken to Ferrari. You'll still win at roulette.
Is everything ready?
I have the letters right here.
Tell me, when we searched the place, where were they?
Sam's piano.
Serves me right for not being musical.
 Not so fast, Louis. Nobody's going to be arrested. Not for a while yet.
Have you taken leave of your senses?
I have. Sit down over there.
Put that gun down.
I suppose you know what you're doing, but I wonder if you realize what this means?
I do. We've got plenty of time to discuss that later.
Call off your watchdogs you said.
Just the same, you call the airport and let me hear you tell them. And remember, this gun's pointed right at your heart.
That is my least vulnerable spot.
If you don't mind, you fill in the names. That will make it even more official.
You think of everything, don't you?
And the names are Mr. and Mrs. Victor Laszlo.
Well I was right. You are a sentimentalist.
Stay where you are. I don't know what you're talking about.
What you just did for Laszlo, and that fairy tale that you invented to send Ilsa away with him. I know a little about women, my friend. She went, but she knew you were lying.
Anyway, thanks for helping me out.
I suppose you know this isn't going to be pleasant for either of us, especially for you. I'll have to arrest you of course.
As soon as the plane goes, Louis.
Well, Rick, you're not only a sentimentalist, but you've become a patriot.
Maybe, but it seemed like a good time to start.
I think perhaps you're right.
It might be a good idea for you to disappear from Casablanca for a while. There's a Free French garrison over at Brazzaville. I could be induced to arrange a passage.
My letter of transit? I could use a trip. But it doesn't make any difference about our bet. You still owe me ten thousand francs.
And that ten thousand francs should pay our expenses.
Our expenses?
Uh huh.
Louis, I think this is the beginning of a beautiful friendship.
Unoccupied France welcomes you to Casablanca.
Thank you, Captain. It's very good to be here.
Major Strasser, my aide, Lieutenant Casselle.
You may find the climate of Casablanca a trifle warm, Major.
Oh, we Germans must get used to all climates, from Russia to the Sahara. But perhaps you were not referring to the weather.
What else, my dear Major?
By the way, the murder of the couriers, what has been done?
Realizing the importance of the case, my men are rounding up twice the usual number of suspects.
Oh, there is no hurry. Tonight he'll be at Rick's. Everybody comes to Rick's.
I have already heard about this cafe, and also about Mr. Rick himself.
Good evening, gentlemen.
Good evening, Captain.
Thank you. It is a pleasure to have you here, Major.
Champagne and a tin of caviar.
May I recommend Veuve Cliquot '26, a good French wine.
Thank you.
Especially so tonight, Major. In a few minutes you will see the arrest of the man who murdered your couriers.
I expected no less, Captain.
Rick, this is Major Heinrich Strasser of the Third Reich.
How do you do, Mr. Rick?
You repeat "Third Reich" as though you expected there to be others.
Well, personally, Major, I will take what comes.
Do you mind if I ask you a few questions? Unofficially, of course.
Ho, diplomatist!
How about New York?
Rick is completely neutral about everything. And that takes in the field of women, too.
You weren't always so carefully neutral. We have a complete dossier on you.
Of course, one must admit he has great courage.
I admit he is very clever. Three times he slipped through our fingers. In Paris he continued his activities. We intend not to let it happen again.
You see, Major, you have nothing to worry about Rick.
Perhaps.
Mademoiselle.
Mademoiselle.
I strongly suspect that Ugarte left the letters of transit with Mr. Blaine. I would suggest you search the cafe immediately and thoroughly.
If Rick has the letters, he's much too smart to let you find them there.
You give him credit for too much cleverness. My impression was that he's just another blundering American.
But we mustn't underestimate American blundering. I was with them when they "blundered" into Berlin in 1918.
As to Laszlo, we want him watched twentyfour hours a day.
It may interest you to know that at this very moment he is on his way here.
You see, Captain, the situation is not as much under control as you believe.
My dear Major, we are trying to cooperate with your government, but we cannot regulate the feelings of our people.
Captain Renault, are you entirely certain which side you're on?
I have no conviction, if that's what you mean. I blow with the wind, and the prevailing wind happens to be from Vichy.
And if it should change?
We are concerned about more than Casablanca. We know that every French province in Africa is honeycombed with traitors waiting for their chance, waiting, perhaps, for a leader.
A leader, like Laszlo?
Uh, huh. I have been thinking. It is too dangerous if we let him go. It may be too dangerous if we let him stay.
I see what you mean.
You see what I mean? If Laszlo's presence in a cafe can inspire this unfortunate demonstration, what more will his presence in Casablanca bring on? I advise that this place be shut up at once.
But everybody's having such a good time.
Yes, much too good a time. The place is to be closed.
But I have no excuse to close it.
Find one.
What is the meaning of that phone call?
Victor Laszlo is on that plane.
Why do you stand here? Why don't you stop him?
Ask Monsieur Rick.
I'm sure you'll excuse me if I am not gracious, but you see, Major Strasser, I'm a Czechoslovakian.
You were a Czechoslovakian. Now you are a subject of the German Reich!
I've never accepted that privilege, and I'm now on French soil.
I should like to discuss some matters arising from your presence on French soil.
This is hardly the time or the place.
Then we shall state another time and another place. Tomorrow at ten in the Prefect's office, with Mademoiselle.
Captain Renault, I am under your authority. Is it your order that we come to your office?
Very well, Herr Laszlo, we will not mince words. You are an escaped prisoner of the Reich. So far you have been fortunate enough in eluding us. You have reached Casablanca. It is my duty to see that you stay in Casablanca.
Whether or not you succeed is, of course, problematical.
Not at all. Captain Renault's signature is necessary on every exit visa. Captain, would you think it is possible that Herr Laszlo will receive a visa?
Is that all you wish to tell us?
Don't be in such a hurry. You have all the time in the world. You may be in Casablanca indefinitely... or you may leave for Lisbon tomorrow, on one condition.
And that is?
You know the leaders of the underground movement in Paris, in Prague, in Brussels, in Amsterdam, in Oslo, in Belgrade, in Athens.
Even in Berlin.
Yes, even in Berlin. If you will furnish me with their names and their exact whereabouts, you will have your visa in the morning.
You will give us the names?
If I didn't give them to you in a concentration camp where you had more "persuasive methods" at your disposal, I certainly won't give them to you now.
And what if you track down these men and kill them? What if you murdered all of us? From every corner of Europe, hundreds, thousands, would rise to take our places. Even Nazis can't kill that fast.
Herr Laszlo, you have a reputation for eloquence which I can now understand. But in one respect you are mistaken. You said the enemies of the Reich could all be replaced, but there is one exception. No one could take your place in the event anything unfortunate should occur to you while you were trying to escape.
You won't dare to interfere with me here. This is still unoccupied France. Any violation of neutrality would reflect on Captain Renault.
For the time being.
Good day.
Monsieur Laszlo, is it not?
Yes.
I am Captain Renault, Prefect of Police.
Yes. What is it you want?
Merely to welcome you to Casablanca and wish you a pleasant stay. It is not often we have so distinguished a visitor.
Thank you. I hope you'll forgive me, Captain, but the present French administration has not always been so cordial. May I present Miss Ilsa Lund?
I was informed you were the most beautiful woman ever to visit Casablanca. That was a gross understatement.
No, Captain, please.
No. Please, Monsieur, it is a little game we play. They put it on the bill, I tear the bill up. It is very convenient.
Let us say that it is my request. That is a much more pleasant word.
Very well.
My bill.
No. Two champagne cocktails, please.
Well! A precedent is being broken. Er, Emil!
This is a very interesting cafe. I congratulate you.
Ricky, you're becoming quite human. I suppose we have to thank you for that, Mademoiselle.
Ilsa, I don't wish to be the one to say it, but it's late.
So it is. And we have a curfew here in Casablanca. It would never do for the Chief of Police to be found drinking after hours and have to fine himself.
Tomorrow at ten at the Prefect's office.
We'll be there.
Goodnight.
I am delighted to see you both. Did you have a good night's rest?
I slept very well.
That's strange. Nobody is supposed to sleep well in Casablanca.
May we proceed with the business?
With pleasure. Won't you sit down?
Thank you.
I am afraid not. My regrets, Monsieur.
Well, perhaps I shall like it in Casablanca.
And the honor of having served the Third Reich.
I was in a German concentration camp for a year. That's honor enough for a lifetime.
Monsieur, insofar as it is in my power 
 Thank you.
By the way, Monsieur, last night you evinced an interest in Signor Ugarte.
Yes.
I believe you have a message for him?
Nothing important, but may I speak to him now?
I am making out the report now. We haven't quite decided whether he committed suicide or died trying to escape.
Are you quite finished with us?
How do you do?
How do you do?
One hears a great deal about Rick in Casablanca.
And about Victor Laszlo everywhere.
Won't you join us for a drink?
And I congratulate you.
What for?
Your work.
Thank you. I try.
We all try. You succeed.
I hope we didn't overstay our welcome.
Not at all.
We'll come again.
Any time.
Good morning.
Signor Ferrari is the fat gent at the table.
Good evening.
Good evening. You see, here we are again.
I take that as a great compliment to Sam. I suppose he means to you Paris of, well, happier days.
Monsieur Blaine, I wonder if I could talk to you?
Go ahead.
Well, isn't there some other place? It's rather confidential, what I have to say.
My office.
Right.
You must know it's very important I get out of Casablanca. It's my privilege to be one of the leaders of a great movement. You know what I have been doing. You know what it means to the work, to the lives of thousands and thousands of people that I be free to reach America and continue my work.
I'm not interested in politics. The problems of the world are not in my department. I'm a saloon keeper.
My friends in the underground tell me that you have quite a record. You ran guns to Ethiopia. You fought against the fascists in Spain.
What of it?
Isn't it strange that you always happened to be fighting on the side of the underdog?
Yes. I found that a very expensive hobby, too. But then I never was much of a businessman.
Are you enough of a businessman to appreciate an offer of a hundred thousand francs?
I appreciate it, but I don't accept it.
I'll raise it to two hundred thousand.
My friend, you could make it a million francs, or three, my answer would still be the same.
There must be some reason why you won't let me have them.
There is. I suggest that you ask your wife.
I beg your pardon?
I said, ask your wife.
My wife?
Well, this might come in handy.
Thank you.
Had a close one, eh?
Yes, rather.
Don't you sometimes wonder if it's worth all this? I mean what you're fighting for?
We might as well question why we breathe. If we stop breathing, we'll die. If we stop fighting our enemies, the world will die.
What of it? Then it'll be out of it's misery.
You know how you sound, Monsieur Blaine? Like a man who's trying to convince himself of something he doesn't believe in his heart. Each of us has a destiny, for good or for evil.
Yes, I get the point.
I wonder if you do. I wonder if you know that you're trying to escape from yourself and that you'll never succeed.
You seem to know all about my destiny.
I know a good deal more about you than you suspect. I know, for instance, that you are in love with a woman. It is perhaps strange that we both should be in love with the same woman. The first evening I came here in this cafe, I knew there was something between you and Ilsa. Since no one is to blame, I, I demand no explanation. I ask only one thing. You won't give me the letters of transit. All right. But I want my wife to be safe. I ask you as a favor to use the letters to take her away from Casablanca.
You love her that much?
Apparently you think of me only as the leader of a cause. Well, I am also a human being.
Monsieur Blaine, I don't know how to thank you.
Oh, save it. We've still lots of things to do.
I brought the money, Monsieur Blaine.
Keep it. You'll need it in America.
But we made a deal.
Oh, never mind about that. You won't have any trouble in Lisbon, will you?
No. It's all arranged.
Good. I've got the letters right here, all made out in blank.
Everything in order?
All except one thing. There's something you should know before you leave.
Monsieur Blaine, I don't ask you to explain anything.
I'm going to anyway, because it may make a difference to you later on. You said you knew about Ilsa and me.
Yes.
But you didn't know she was at my place last night when you were. She came there for the letters of transit. Isn't that true, Ilsa?
I understand.
Here it is.
Captain, the boy who is playing the piano, somewhere I have seen him.
Sam?
Yes.
He came from Paris with Rick.
Rick? Who's he?
Mademoiselle, you are in Rick's and Rick is 
 Is what?
Well, Mademoiselle, he's the kind of a man that, well, if I were a woman and I... were not around, I should be in love with Rick. But what a fool I am talking to a beautiful woman about another man.
Hello, Rick.
Oh, you've already met Rick, Mademoiselle?
Well then, perhaps you also 
 This is Mr. Laszlo.
I can't get over you two. She was asking about you earlier, Rick, in a way that made me extremely jealous.
I wasn't sure you were the same. Let's see, the last time we met 
I'm afraid Major Strasser would insist.
You're saying this only to make me go.
Victor, I, I feel somehow we shouldn't stay here.
If we would walk out so soon, it would only call attention to us. Perhaps Ugarte's in some other part of the cafe.
You are very kind.
Won't you join us?
This time they really mean to stop me.
Victor, I'm afraid for you.
We have been in difficult places before, haven't we?
I must find out what Berger knows.
Be careful.
I will, don't worry.
Goodnight.
Goodnight.
Goodnight.
Goodnight.
We are only interested in two visas, Signor.
Please, Ilsa, don't be hasty.
No, Victor, no.
No, Ilsa, I won't let you stay here. You must get to America. And believe me, somehow I will get out and join you.
But, Victor, if the situation were different, if I had to stay and there were only a visa for one, would you take it?
Yes, I would.
Yes, I see. When I had trouble getting out of Lille, why didn't you leave me there? And when I was sick in Marseilles and held you up for two weeks and you were in danger every minute of the time, why didn't you leave me then?
I meant to, but something always held me up. I love you very much, Ilsa.
He does. Could we have a table close to him?
And as far away from Major Strasser as possible.
What happened with Rick?
We'll discuss it later.
Our faithful friend is still there.
Victor, please, don't go to the underground meeting tonight.
I must. Besides, it isn't often that a man has a chance to display heroics before his wife.
Don't joke. After Major Strasser's warning tonight, I am frightened.
To tell you the truth, I am frightened too. Shall I remain here in our hotel room hiding, or shall I carry on the best I can?
Whatever I'd say, you'd carry on. Victor, why don't you tell me about Rick? What did you find out?
Apparently he has the letters.
Yes?
But no intention of selling them. One would think if sentiment wouldn't persuade him, money would.
Did he give any reason?
He suggested I ask you.
Ask me?
Yes. He said, "Ask your wife." I don't know why he said that.
Ilsa, I 
 Yes?
When I was in the concentration camp, were you lonely in Paris?
Yes, Victor, I was.
I know how it is to be lonely. Is there anything you wish to tell me?
No, Victor, there isn't.
I love you very much, my dear.
Yes, Yes I know. Victor, whatever I do, will you believe that I, that 
 You don't even have to say it. I'll believe. Goodnight, dear.
Be careful.
Of course, I'll be careful.
Are you ready Ilsa?
Yes, I'm ready. Goodbye, Rick. God bless you.
Hello, Sam.
Hello, Miss Ilsa. I never expected to see you again.
It's been a long time.
Yes, ma'am. A lot of water under the bridge.
Some of the old songs, Sam.
Yes, ma'am.
Where is Rick?
I don't know. I ain't seen him all night.
When will he be back?
Not tonight no more. He ain't coming. Uh, he went home.
Does he always leave so early?
Oh, he never... well... he's got a girl up at the Blue Parrot. He goes up there all the time.
You used to be a much better liar, Sam.
Leave him alone, Miss Ilsa. You're bad luck to him.
Play it once, Sam, for old time's sake.
I don't know what you mean, Miss Ilsa.
Play it, Sam. Play "As Time Goes By."
Oh I can't remember it, Miss Ilsa. I'm a little rusty on it.
 It was "La Belle Aurore."
How nice. You remembered. But of course, that was the day the Germans marched into Paris.
Not an easy day to forget.
No.
I remember every detail. The Germans wore gray, you wore blue.
Yes. I put that dress away. When the Germans march out, I'll wear it again.
Say goodnight to Sam for me.
I will.
There's still nobody in the world who can play "As Time Goes By" like Sam.
He hasn't played it in a long time.
Who are you really? And what were you before? What did you do and what did you think? Huh?
We said "no questions."
Here's looking at you, kid.
A franc for your thoughts.
In America they'd bring only a penny. I guess that's about all they're worth.
I'm willing to be overcharged. Tell me.
And I was wondering.
Yes?
Why I'm so lucky. Why I should find you waiting for me to come along.
Why there is no other man in my life?
Uh huh.
That's easy. There was. He's dead.
I'm sorry for asking. I forgot we said "no questions."
Well, only one answer can take care of all our questions.
Richard, they'll find out your record. It won't be safe for you here.
I'm on their blacklist already, their roll of honor.
My German's a little rusty.
It's the Gestapo. They say they expect to be in Paris tomorrow.
With the whole world crumbling, we pick this time to fall in love.
Yeah. It's pretty bad timing. Where were you, say, ten years ago?
Ten years ago? Let's see... ...Yes. I was having a brace put on my teeth. Where were you?
Looking for a job.
Was that cannon fire, or is it my heart pounding?
Ah, that's the new German 77. And judging by the sound, only about thirtyfive miles away.
Strange. I know so very little about you.
I know very little about you, just the fact that you had your teeth straightened.
But be serious, darling. You are in danger and you must leave Paris.
No, no, no, no. We must leave.
Yes, of course, we 
 The train for Marseilles leaves at five o'clock. I'll pick you up at your hotel at fourthirty.
No, no. Not at my hotel. I, uh, I have things to do in the city before I leave. I'll meet you at the station, huh?
All right. At a quarter to five. Say, why don't we get married in Marseilles?
That's too far ahead to plan.
Yes, I guess it is a little too far ahead. Well, let's see. What about the engineer? Why can't he marry us on the train?
Oh, darling!
Well, why not? The captain on a ship can. It doesn't seem fair that... Hey, hey, what's wrong, kid?
I love you so much, and I hate this war so much. Oh, it's a crazy world. Anything can happen. If you shouldn't get away, I mean, if, if something should keep us apart, wherever they put you and wherever I'll be, I want you to know...
Oh. I saved my first drink to have with you. Here.
No. No, Rick. Not tonight.
Especially tonight.
Please.
Why did you have to come to Casablanca? There are other places.
I wouldn't have come if I had known that you were here. Believe me, Rick, it's true. I didn't know.
It's funny about your voice, how it hasn't changed. I can still hear it. "Richard dear, I'll go with you any place. We'll get on a train together and never stop."
Please don't. Don't, Rick. I can understand how you feel.
Huh! You understand how I feel. How long was it we had, honey?
I didn't count the days.
Well, I did. Every one of them. Mostly I remember the last one. A wow finish. A guy standing on a station platform in the rain with a comical look on his face, because his insides had been kicked out.
Can I tell you a story, Rick?
Has it got a wow finish?
I don't know the finish yet.
Well, go on, tell it. Maybe one will come to you as you go along.
It's about a girl who had just come to Paris from her home in Oslo. At the house of some friends she met a man about whom she'd heard her whole life, a very great and courageous man. He opened up for her a whole beautiful world full of knowledge and thoughts and ideals. Everything she knew or ever became was because of him. And she looked up to him and worshipped him with a feeling she supposed was love.
Yes, that's very pretty. I heard a story once. As a matter of fact, I've heard a lot of stories in my time. They went along with the sound of a tinny piano playing in the parlor downstairs, "Mister, I met a man once when I was a kid," it'd always begin. Huh. I guess neither one of our stories was very funny. Tell me, who was it you left me for? Was it Laszlo, or were there others in between? Or aren't you the kind that tells?
I'm sorry I was in no condition to receive you when you called on me last night.
It doesn't matter.
Why did you come back? To tell me why you ran out on me at the railway station?
Yes.
Well, you can tell me now. I'm reasonably sober.
I don't think I will, Rick.
Why not? After all, I got stuck with a railway ticket. I think I'm entitled to know.
Last night I saw what has happened to you. The Rick I knew in Paris, I could tell him. He'd understand. But the one who looked at me with such hatred... well, I'll be leaving Casablanca soon and we'll never see each other again. We knew very little about each other when we were in love in Paris. If we leave it that way, maybe we'll remember those days and not Casablanca, not last night.
Did you run out on me because you couldn't take it? Because you knew what it would be like, hiding from the police, running away all the time?
You can believe that if you want to.
Well, I'm not running away any more. I'm settled now, above a saloon, it's true, but... walk up a flight. I'll be expecting you.
All the same, someday you'll lie to Laszlo. You'll be there.
No, Rick. No, you see, Victor Laszlo is my husband... and was, even when I knew you in Paris.
How did you get in?
The stairs from the street.
I told you this morning you'd come around, but this is a little ahead of schedule. Well, won't you sit down?
Richard, I had to see you.
You use "Richard" again? We're back in Paris.
Please.
Your unexpected visit isn't connected by any chance with the letters of transit? It seems that as long as I have those letters I'll never be lonely.
You can ask any price you want, but you must give me those letters.
I went through all that with your husband. It's no deal.
I know how you feel about me, but I'm asking you to put your feelings aside for something more important.
Do I have to hear again what a great man your husband is? What an important cause he's fighting for?
It was your cause, too. In your own way, you were fighting for the same thing.
I'm not fighting for anything anymore, except myself. I'm the only cause I'm interested in.
Richard, Richard, we loved each other once. If those days meant anything at all to you 
 I wouldn't bring up Paris if I were you. It's poor salesmanship.
Please. Please listen to me. If you knew what really happened, if you only knew the truth 
 I wouldn't believe you, no matter what you told me. You'd say anything now to get what you want.
No. Oh, Richard, I'm sorry. I'm sorry, but, but you, you are our last hope. If you don't help us, Victor Laszlo will die in Casablanca.
What of it? I'm going to die in Casablanca. It's a good spot for it.
 All right. I tried to reason with you. I tried everything. Now I want those letters. Get them for me.
I don't have to. I've got them right here.
Put them on the table.
No.
For the last time, put them on the table.
If Laszlo and the cause mean so much to you, you won't stop at anything. All right, I'll make it easier for you.
And then?
It wasn't long after we were married that Victor went back to Czechoslovakia. They needed him in Prague, but there the Gestapo were waiting for him. Just a twoline item in the paper: "Victor Laszlo apprehended. Sent to concentration camp." I was frantic. For months I tried to get word. Then it came. He was dead, shot trying to escape. I was lonely. I had nothing. Not even hope. Then I met you.
Why weren't you honest with me? Why did you keep your marriage a secret?
Oh, it wasn't my secret, Richard. Victor wanted it that way. Not even our closest friends knew about our marriage. That was his way of protecting me. I knew so much about his work, and if the Gestapo found out I was his wife it would be dangerous for me and for those working with me.
When did you first find out he was alive?
Just before you and I were to leave Paris together. A friend came and told me that Victor was alive. They were hiding him in a freight car on the outskirts of Paris. He was sick, he needed me. I wanted to tell you, but I, I didn't care. I knew, I knew you wouldn't have left Paris, and the Gestapo would have caught you. So I... well, well, you know the rest.
Huh. But it's still a story without an ending. What about now?
Now? I don't know. I know that I'll never have the strength to leave you again.
And Laszlo?
Oh, you'll help him now, Richard, won't you? You'll see that he gets out? Then he'll have his work, all that he's been living for.
All except one. He won't have you.
I can't fight it anymore. I ran away from you once. I can't do it again. Oh, I don't know what's right any longer. You'll have to think for both of us, for all of us.
All right, I will. Here's looking at you, kid.
I wish I didn't love you so much.
Richard, Victor thinks I'm leaving with him. Haven't you told him?
No, not yet.
But it's all right, isn't it? You were able to arrange everything?
Everything is quite all right.
Oh, Rick!
But why my name, Richard?
Because you're getting on that plane.
I don't understand. What about you?
I'm staying here with him 'til the plane gets safely away.
No, Richard, no. What has happened to you? Last night we said 
 Last night we said a great many things. You said I was to do the thinking for both of us. Well, I've done a lot of it since then and it all adds up to one thing. You're getting on that plane with Victor where you belong.
But Richard, no, I, I 
 You've got to listen to me. Do you have any idea what you'd have to look forward to if you stayed here? Nine chances out of ten we'd both wind up in a concentration camp. Isn't that true, Louis?
I'm saying it because it's true. Inside of us we both know you belong with Victor. You're part of his work, the thing that keeps him going. If that plane leaves the ground and you're not with him, you'll regret it.
No.
Maybe not today, maybe not tomorrow, but soon, and for the rest of your life.
But what about us?
We'll always have Paris. We didn't have, we'd lost it, until you came to Casablanca. We got it back last night.
And I said I would never leave you.
And you never will. But I've got a job to do, too. Where I'm going you can't follow. What I've got to do you can't be any part of. Ilsa, I'm no good at being noble, but it doesn't take much to see that the problems of three little people don't amount to a hill of beans in this crazy world. Someday you'll understand that. Now, now...
Yes.
She tried everything to get them, and nothing worked. She did her best to convince me that she was still in love with me, but that was all over long ago. For your sake, she pretended it wasn't, and I let her pretend.
And Mademoiselle?
You needn't be concerned about me.
Mademoiselle, after this disturbance it is not safe for Laszlo to stay in Casablanca.
This morning you implied it was not safe for him to leave Casablanca.
That is also true, except for one destination, to return to occupied France.
Occupied France?
Uh huh. Under a safe conduct from me.
What value is that? You may recall what German guarantees have been worth in the past.
There are only two other alternatives for him.
What are they?
It is possible the French authorities will find a reason to put him in the concentration camp here.
And the other alternative?
My dear Mademoiselle, perhaps you have already observed that in Casablanca, human life is cheap. Good night, Mademoiselle.
You see, my dear, the word has gone around.
As leader of all illegal activities in Casablanca, I am an influential and respected man. It would not be worth my life to do anything for Monsieur Laszlo. You, however, are a different matter.
Signor Ferrari thinks it might just be possible to get an exit visa for you.
I will stay here and keep on trying. I'm sure in a little while 
 We might as well be frank, Monsieur. It will take a miracle to get you out of Casablanca. And the Germans have outlawed miracles.
We've decided, Signor Ferrari. For the present we'll go on looking for two exit visas. Thank you very much.
Well, good luck. But be careful. You know you're being shadowed?
I observe that you in one respect are a very fortunate man, Monsieur. I am moved to make one more suggestion, why, I do not know, because it cannot possibly profit me, but, have you heard about Signor Ugarte and the letters of transit?
Yes, something.
Those letters were not found on Ugarte when they arrested him.
Do you know where they are?
Not for sure, Monsieur, but I will venture to guess that Ugarte left those letters with Monsieur Rick.
Rick?
He is a difficult customer, that Rick. One never knows what he'll do or why. But it is worth a chance.
Thank you very much. Good day.
It was gracious of you to share it with me. Good day, Mademoiselle, Monsieur.
Good day.
Hello, Rick.
Hello, Ferrari. How's business at the Blue Parrot?
Fine, but I would like to buy your cafe.
It's not for sale.
You haven't heard my offer.
It's not for sale at any price.
What do you want for Sam?
I don't buy or sell human beings.
That's too bad. That's Casablanca's leading commodity. In refugees alone we could make a fortune if you would work with me through the black market.
Suppose you run your business and let me run mine.
Suppose we ask Sam. Maybe he'd like to make a change.
Suppose we do.
My dear Rick, when will you realize that in this world today isolationism is no longer a practical policy?
I see the bus is in. I'll take my shipment with me.
No hurry. I'll have it sent over. Have a drink with me.
I never drink in the morning. And every time you send my shipment over, it's always just a little bit short.
Carrying charges, my boy, carrying charges. Here, sit down. There's something I want to talk over with you, anyhow.
The bourbon. The news about Ugarte upset me very much.
You're a fat hypocrite. You don't feel any sorrier for Ugarte than I do.
Of course not. What upsets me is the fact that Ugarte is dead and no one knows where those letters of transit are.
Practically no one.
If I could lay my hands on those letters, I could make a fortune.
So could I. And I'm a poor businessman.
I have a proposition for whoever has those letters. I will handle the entire transaction, get rid of the letters, take all the risk, for a small percentage.
And the carrying charges?
Naturally there will be a few incidental expenses. That is the proposition I have for whoever has those letters.
I'll tell him when he comes in.
Rick, I'll put my cards on the table. I think you know where those letters are.
Well, you're in good company. Renault and Strasser probably think so, too.
That's why I came over here to give them a chance to ransack my place.
Rick, don't be a fool. Take me into your confidence. You need a partner.
Shall we draw up the papers, or is our handshake good enough?
It's certainly not good enough. But since I'm in a hurry, it'll have to do.
Ah, to get out of Casablanca and go to America! You're a lucky man.
Oh, by the way, my agreement with Sam's always been that he gets twenty five percent of the profits. That still goes.
Hmmm. I happen to know that he gets ten percent. But he's worth twenty five.
And Abdul and Carl and Sacha, they stay with the place, or I don't sell.
Of course they stay. Rick's wouldn't be Rick's without them.
Well, so long.
Don't forget, you owe Rick's a hundred cartons of American cigarettes.
I shall remember to pay it... to myself.
Here's to you, sir.
Er, good luck, yes.
I'd better be going.
Er, my check, please.
I have to warn you, sir. I beseech you...
Er, goodbye, sir.
It has been a pleasure to meet you.
Excuse me, Monsieur Rick, but a gentleman inside has won twenty thousand francs. The cashier would like some money.
Well, I'll get it from the safe.
I am so upset, Monsieur Rick. You know I can't understand 
 Forget it, Emil. Mistakes like that happen all the time.
I'm awfully sorry.
Here you are.
It shall not happen again, Monsieur.
That's all right.
Monsieur Rick, may I get you a cup of coffee?
No thanks, Carl.
Monsieur Rick!
Well, you are in pretty good shape, Herr Rick.
How long can I afford to stay closed?
Oh, two weeks, maybe three.
Maybe I won't have to. A bribe has worked before. In the meantime, everybody stays on salary.
Oh, thank you, Herr Rick. Sacha will be happy to hear it. I owe him money.
Now you finish locking up, will you, Carl?
I will. Then I am going to the meeting of the 
 Don't tell me where you're going.
I won't.
Goodnight.
Goodnight, Monsieur Rick.
The police break up our meeting. Herr Rick! We escaped in the last moment.
Come up here a minute.
Yes, I come.
I want you to turn out the light in the rear entrance. It might attract the police.
But Sacha always puts out that light 
 Tonight he forgot.
Yes, I come, I will do it.
I want you to take Miss Lund home.
Yes, sir.
Excuse me, but you look like a couple who are on their way to America.
Well?
You will find a market there for this ring. I am forced to sell it at a great sacrifice.
Thank you, but I hardly think 
 Then perhaps for the lady. The ring is quite unique.
Good.
What is your name?
Berger, Norwegian, and at your service, sir.
Such a bargain. But that is your decision?
I'm sorry. It is.
Mr. Berger, the ring, could I see it again?
Yes, Monsieur.
A champagne cocktail, please.
I recognize you from the news photographs, Monsieur Laszlo.
In a concentration camp, one is apt to lose a little weight.
We read five times that you were killed in five different places.
As you see, it was true every single time. Thank heaven I found you, Berger. I am looking for a man by the name of Ugarte. He is supposed to help me.
I see.
But we who are still free will do all we can. We are organized, Monsieur, underground like everywhere else. Tomorrow night there is a meeting at the Caverne du Bois. If you would come...
Monsieur Rick?
Yes?
Could I speak to you for just a moment, please?
How did you get in here? You're under age.
I came with Captain Renault.
I should have known.
My husband is with me, too.
He is? Well, Captain Renault's getting broadminded. Sit down. Will you have a drink?
No, of course not. Do you mind if I do?
No.
Monsieur Rick, what kind of man is Captain Renault?
Oh, he's just like any other man, only more so.
No, I mean, is he trustworthy? Is his word 
 Now, just a minute. Who told you to ask me that?
He did. Captain Renault did.
I thought so. Where's your husband?
At the roulette table, trying to win enough for our exit visa. Well of course, he's losing.
How long have you been married?
Eight weeks. We come from Bulgaria. Oh, things are very bad there, Monsieur. A devil has the people by the throat. So, Jan and I, we, we do not want our children to grow up in such a country.
So you decided to go to America.
Yes, but we have not much money, and traveling is so expensive and difficult. It was much more than we thought to get here. And then Captain Renault sees us and he is so kind. He wants to help us.
Yes, I'll bet.
He tells me he can give us an exit visa, but we have no money.
Does he know that?
Oh, yes.
And he is still willing to give you a visa?
Yes, Monsieur.
And you want to know 
 Will he keep his word?
He always has.
Nobody ever loved me that much.
And he never knew, and the girl kept this bad thing locked in her heart? That would be all right, wouldn't it?
You want my advice?
Oh, yes, please.
Go back to Bulgaria.
Oh, but if you knew what it means to us to leave Europe, to get to America! Oh, but if Jan should find out! He is such a boy. In many ways I am so much older than he is.
Yes, well, everybody in Casablanca has problems. Yours may work out. You'll excuse me.
Monsieur Rick, I 
 He's just a lucky guy.
You put the mommy too far away. Mrs. Boswell has macaroni and glue if you wanna fix it.
You're such a retard!
Here you go, buddy.
What? No frigging way, man. I'm not touching that thing.
The hell you aren't. Anyone of us does it, you'll puss out and narc for sure.
Ain't gonna work this time, buddy. Look how small that fuse is! I'll get killed.
Maybe it went out. Should someone check it?
Yeah, you do that, Lenny.
Evan, guess what? Dad got a new video camera and we're all gonna be in a movie.
I don't think Evan gets to be in it 
Quit it, Tommy. Evan gets to be Robin Hood. I'm gonna be Maid Marian, and you're the Sheriff of Nottingham!
I thought I was the bad guy!
You are, silly. He's a bad sheriff.
What did I say about mentioning that bitch?
Where the hell are you taking us anyway? Just blow something up already.
Just blow something up? Are you nuts? There's an art to mass destruction. Would you just paint the Mona Lisa? No. Besides, we're here already.
Wipe that sadassed look off your face before you get us all busted. You see the way Evan's mom was looking at you?
I'm sorry.
Lenny? Come on!
Oh my God oh my God...
Shut up, Tommy!
Aw, hey now, that was a compliment.
Just get out, didja?
Huh?
Nothing. Just that my brother did a stint in the pen and he used to eat like that.
I come from a big family.
Meant no offense.
None taken. Hey, uh, does Kayleigh Miller still work here?
Sorry. Never heard of her.
Hey, what'd you do that for?
Fat little baby, crying for mommy.
Tommy, I'm bored shitless over here. What's up already?
Hold your horses, man. It's here somewhere. I saw it when I was a kid.
Hurry! Let's go! Get him up, Evan! Come on!
What happened?? Where are we?!
Look what you made me do!
What's wrong with you?!
Leave us alone you sick fuck!
Get this "us" shit. As if I was gonna lay a hand on my own sister. You've done nicely for yourself, Evan. Nice friends, nice life, not to mention you're fucking my sister. Not a bad piece of ass if I say so myself.
What the hell are you doing?
It wasn't enough that the whole world loves you, but you had to take away the last person on earth who didn't think I was a piece of shit.
No one thinks you're a piece of shit, Tommy.
Right, Evan. I believe you just said "sick fuck."
Listen to me good, Evan...
I'll do whatever you want. You don't want me to ever see Kayleigh again, fine. Just let Crockett go. Besides, you kill him now and they'll stick you in juvy for sure. And I know you'd never leave your sister alone with your father.
I did what you said, man! We're pooling our student funds with Hillel House and we're going to have an Awareness Dance.
Oh goody, nothing like spinning my chair around to a techno mix of Hava Nagila til I puke.
Lung cancer?
Sorry, Mrs. T. He's been out of sorts lately.
Mom. Don't cry. I can change this.
I think I'll go check out the chapel.
Can... can... Can I have this?
Sure. I was gonna make a new one, anyway.
That should buy you ten minutes at least.
Gee, thanks friend.
I couldn't cut the rope.
Yeah, good, what else do you remember?
Drop it or I'll slit your mother's throat in her sleep.
You knew the whole time, didn't you? When you put the blade in my hand, you knew something big was going to happen. Didn't you?!
Y... yes. I guess I did.
Uh, we should be getting to class now.
Forget it. What's the point of Psych now? Tomorrow I could wake up as some dirt farmer in Bangladesh.
Are you sure you even packed it?
My mom packed for me. I think she sent everything I ever owned. So we'll see.
What do you need it for? I don't get you lately.
Duly noted. Now I'm gonna ask you for one last favor.
What?
Shhh. I need to concentrate on the blockbuster if I'm gonna destroy it.
Destroy it?
If I hadn't blown my arms off, Mom never woulda started smoking in the first place. Now shhhh.
So what's the point?
Maybe if I can figure out how the memories of a simple worm function, it'll help me understand the complexities of the human brain.
Smells like sex in here.
Thumper had a busy afternoon.
You're kidding. He's so... big.
Most guys tuck their porn under here, but all you have are... comp books.
Yeah. I've been keeping journals since I was seven.
Wow... read something.
Freeze! No "wormboy". No "Mr. Worm," and no "WormMasterGeneral!" Once you get a nickname like that you can't shake it. And I don't want everyone thinking I've got tapeworms coming out of my ass or something, okay?
Deal. Now read me something.
Come on, go on...
It was like Tommy was possessed or something. There was a hate in his eyes that I couldn't really call human.
It didn't feel like a dream.
Maybe because they never do. So Don Juan, you pass out on all your dates?
I'm not sure. I might have gotten some stories mixed up. Did Pavlov condition his dogs to lick his nuts?
Typical psych major. A complete wise ass. And how's your project coming? Still planning to change the way we humble scientists view memory assimilation?
Hey, I got no choice.
Whoa! Didn't mean to scare you, Evan. Just wanted to know how the flatworms project was coming.
Oh, fine I guess. It's been kind of crazy lately with my mom coming up, so I haven't...
I know, I know. Who can think of worms when your libido's in full swing, right?
Just don't drop the ball, okay?
I won't let you down, Professor Carter.
Remember, everyone! Only two weeks until your science projects are due.
I still owe you an essay from last week. Is there any way I could get an extension?
And you are...?
Evan Treborn.
The answer's 'no', Mr. Treborn. Now take a seat. The exam's about to begin.
Evan, you're hysterical. You study for this?
We'll find out soon enough.
Me neither.
You're kidding. Are these the answers?!
Damn, Evan, on the D.L.
Thanks. Wow. Hey, I want to do something really special for Kayleigh tomorrow. If I said I needed some help from you and the brothers...
I'd say blow me. Get the pledges to do it.
It's okay. I won't bite. You've seen pictures of me, right?
Uhhuh. Mom says I have your eyes and your 
Are you okay? You looked like you were somewhere else for a second there.
Look, Jason, I need some fast answers if I'm ever gonna fix what I've done.
I was praying this curse would have ended with me.
But it didn't. And now I need info to make things right again and you're the only one who can give it to me.
There is no "right". When you change who people are, you destroy who they were.
Who's to say you can't make things better?
You can't play God, son. It must end with me. Just by being here, you may be killing your mother.
Bullshit. I'll send you a postcard when I've made everything perfect again.
We're really gonna be in a movie!?
That's right, Evan, and you get to be the star.
Where am I? What happened? Where did we all go?
Calm down, kid. Stand still.
I was just somewhere else  how did I get here?
Quit acting like some retard or I'll call your mother and tell her what a naughty little shit you've been.
Kayleigh? What happened?
What time is it?
It's time for you to stand where the hell I told you.
Wrong answer, fuckbag. This is the very moment of your reckoning. In the next thirty seconds you're going to open one of two doors. The first door will forever traumatize your own flesh and blood.
What's happened to  How are you doing that?
It'll change your daughter from a beautiful child into an empty shell whose only concept of trust was betrayed by her own sick pedophile father. Ultimately, it'll lead to her suicide. Nice work, daddy.
Who  who are you?
Let's just say you're being closely watched, George. Your other option is to get your porn off the rack and treat Kayleigh like... oh, let's say like how a loving father treats his daughter. Sound okay to you, Papa?
...yes.
Listen close then, fuckbag. You screw up again and I swear I'll flat out castrate you.
Easy does it, Evan! Don't be a bad boy or I'll tell mommy you were naughty.
And I'll tell the Child Protective Services about your kiddie porn endeavors. One step closer and I'll shove this up your ass!
That's dangerous! You could blow your hands off!
Been there, done that.
We should go soon. If Dad catches us smoking down here, we're dead.
So let's go. This place creeps me out.
Oh God... what did we do?
Shit, Lenny. What's happened to you! We've gotta get help!
I'm sorry Kayleigh. This was a bad idea.
You really don't remember anything that happened?
Ouch.
I'm sorry.
It's not your fault. Mrs. Kagan called dad and blamed us for what happened to Lenny.
Damn. Your dad did this?
I deserve a lot worse.
What are you talking about? What you deserve is a better brother and father. All they do is make you feel like shit.
I can't believe Tommy's still pissed at me. He knows I'm moving away, right?
He's been acting real strange lately. He won't even look me in the eyes anymore.
Duck, here they come.
Did your mom say if Lenny was... okay?
He must be. They're letting him go, right?
Welcome home. Thought you might like some fresh air for a change.
Hi, Lenny.
God, Evan! I never thought I'd see you again. How've you been?
Oh, comme si, comme ca, you know...
No, Evan. I don't know. It's been a long time. Fill me in.
I'm going to State now. Things are going okay. I guess. Mom's good...
Not since we were kids.
I've stopped a hundred times.
So how's Tommy?
They kept him in juvy for a few years. Now he works over at Dale's Autobody.
No. I emancipated myself when I was fifteen.
Wow. That must've taken some courage.
Not if you remember my dad.
Couldn't you have moved in with your mom?
She had a new family. Not enough space for me. Said I should have moved in with her when we were kids. But... whatever.
Actually, Kayleigh, the reason I came back to town was to talk to you.
Me? Are you kidding? Why?
Remember when I was a kid I had all these blackouts?
Of course.
Well, lately some of the memories have begun to come back and I'd kinda like to talk to you about one of them in particular. It'd be a big help.
Well, sure. I'll try to remember. Shoot.
When we were kids. Your dad was making a movie. Robin Hood or something?
What do you want to know, Evan?
It's just... did he... what happened in the basement?
It was a long time ago.
I know, but...
Is that why you came all the way back? To ask a lot of stupid questions about Robin Hood?
No, but I think something really bad might've happened to us.
Just shut up, Evan. You're wasting your breath.
You can't hate yourself just because your dad's a twisted freak.
Who are you trying to convince, Evan?! You come all the way out here to stir up my shit just because you had a bad memory!? You want me to cry on your shoulder and tell you that everything's all better now? Well fuck you, Evan! Nothing's gonna be all better! Okay?! Nothing ever gets better!
Jesus, Kayleigh, you're... Incredible.
Mmmm... You give good compliment. Clean up and come back to bed.
Where... where are my clothes?
Those are your clothes, silly.
Hey, uh, don't go freaking out on me over this, but do you remember when your dad first got his video camera?
Well I remember he had one... but he, like, put it away after the first day. Why would that freak me out?
I dunno. Just being weird.
Oh my God, that was good. Where'd you learn all those new tricks?
So it didn't feel... weird?
Yeah, if you call multiple orgasms weird.
What do you think it is about us that makes us so perfect? Like, looking back, whatever gave you the nerve to sneak out and visit me after I moved away?
As if my dad could've stopped me from seeing you. What's he gonna do to me?
I don't understand, where are you taking me?
You'll see.
I don't know what to say. It's beautiful.
Go on. Sit down.
Why are you doing all this for me?
Simple math. When I woke up this morning and saw your smile... I knew that I wanted to spend the rest of my life with you.
It's my fault. I should have told you he was released a few weeks ago.
Might'a been nice. Like this is gonna do any good. Maybe one of the frat guys has a gun.
Please, Evan. Don't even joke. He wouldn't hurt you. He's just trying to scare you away from me.
Yeah, right. Tell that to Crockett.
It's not his fault, Evan. You knew how bad he had it when we were kids.
Don't give me this Oprahbook club bad upbringing shit, because you turned out fine.
My father never laid a hand on me. It's like the prick saved it all up for Tommy.
Are you okay?
What do you mean?
It's just... you've been acting kinda strange, you know?
Like how?
I don't know. You seem... different. You make weird jokes. Your accents changed. You don't even walk the same.
I walk differently?
I can't put my finger on it, but everything's a bit off. Even the dinner tonight. It was beautiful, but...
I know I've been actin strange lately. It's just that... I don't want anything to happen to us.
Wait. Something's not right. Isn't that your jacket?
What?
Evan, stop! You're gonna kill him!
He's a fucking maniac!
I want you to take this, Lenny. Today's your day of atonement. I know how guilty you feel about that woman and her baby 
Evan. Stop it. It's not the time.
Now's the only time! Today you get a chance to redeem yourself. Start over with a clean slate. Tabula rasa 
Oh, I thought you were my eight o'clock. Make it fast, I'm expecting someone.
Nice to see you, too. Can I come in?
So how's tricks? Sorry, occupational humor.
I get it. You can drop it now.
Oh, I'm sorry. Does my line of work make you uncomfortable, precious?
No. Just that you need to hurt me with it. I've been where you've been.
Ha! Where's that?
The bottom. When you're just a piece of meat waiting for the next attack.
What's happened to you?
You wouldn't believe me. I mean, people always say, "You wouldn't believe me", but in this case, it's not even worth trying.
I've seen some sickening shit. I don't blink twice anymore, especially in your case.
Why's that?
Because you're... different.
Different? How?
Let me ask you a question. Just a little one that's been gnawing at me for years.
Yeah?
On the bridge. How did you know that Tommy had your dog? That was no fucking hunch.
Do you remember when I was a kid and I had those blackouts?
You're right, Evan, I don't believe you.
I never thought you would. That's why I've never bothered to tell a soul until now, and why I never will again.
I'm the only person you've told? That's a great line. Does that make other girls swoon? Do they actually eat up this bullshit?
I couldn't give a shit if you believe me or not, and frankly I'm too tired to prove it to you.
Oh? There's proof now?
Shit. I dunno. How would I know about the twin moles on your inner thigh?
Anyone with fifty bucks could tell you that.
Then forget that. How about... you prefer the smell of a skunk to flowers, you hate cilantro because for reasons unknown to you, it reminds you of your stepsister.
I just thought you should know.
Know what?
That I didn't leave you there to rot.
There's one major hole in your story.
Which is?
There is no fuckin' way on this planet or any other that I was in some fuckin' sorority.
Sure you don't want your wallet?
Don't think I'll need it where I'm going.
Off to change everyone's life again, is that it? Maybe this time you'll pop up in some mansion while I wind up in Tijuana doing the donkey act.
I'm over it. Whenever I try to help anyone it all turns to shit.
Well, don't give up now, Slick. You've already done so much for me. Hell, why don't you go back in time and save Mrs. Halpern and her baby. Then maybe Lenny wouldn't freak out and ruin my family.
Where are we going?
We have to get you to Sunnyvale. You're having one of your famous hemorrhages.
Stop! Take me back!
You know how spiritual he's gotten ever since he saved Mrs. Halpern and Katie.
He saved Mrs. Halpern? Please, the twisted fuck.
Is something the matter?
Yeah, I think I gotta get these fixed or something.
Kayleigh? Do you ever think about "us?" I mean, wonder if it could ever have been different between the two of us?
Sure, Evan, why not? You were the first person I really ever cared about.
I was?
That's why when I was little I never went to live with my mother.
I don't get it.
When my folks split, they gave me and Tommy a choice who we wanted to live with. I couldn't stand my dad, but I knew if I moved to my mom's I'd never see you again.
I never knew that. So then you still sometimes think of us... together?
It's crossed my mind from time to time.
And...?
Well a lot of things cross my mind. I've always been a fast thinker, Ev. I can play out the movie of our entire lives in under a second. Boom  we fall in love  get married  two kids, your keen analytical insight matched to my generous nature  kids grow old as do we, relatively stable relationships, matching burial plots, the whole bit. It took a lot longer to spit out than to imagine.
Then you think it might have worked out?
Why not? But that's not how things wound up. I'm with Lenny, Lenny's your friend. And there it ends.
Get dressed, Thumper, you're taking me out for my birthday.
I thought you were a December baby.
This is bigger. Seven years to the day. No blackouts.
It's an experiment with flatworms and a maze. You take a flatworm and run it through the maze until he's memorized it. Then you put a new flatworm in the maze. He's clueless. Banging into walls, getting lost, whatever.
Like Ozzy.
Just by absorbing the first worm into its cellular structure, it gets all of the worm's memories.
That's probably why Hannibal Lecter's so smart.
You really think he wanted to kill you?
All I know is that I might be able to unblock some of my repressed memories.
I never wanted to be in the movie anyway and it was cold so I wanted to wear my clothes but Mr. Miller took his shirt off 
What the fuck are you doing?
Shhh! I need quiet for this.
Are you stupid or what?
What?
Shucks, I dunno. But maybe there's a reason why you've repressed the one day when some old lecher had you in your tighty whities, dammit!
Whasamatter? Lost your Rolex?
Huh?
Fuck off, frat boy.
Get out. Both of you.
Sorry, dude. Just figured it'd be okay with you bein' sick and all.
Hello, Evan. It's very nice to meet you. He's as handsome as his father.
You know my father?
Dad lives here?
Not in this wing, actually. No.
Now I want you to go back to the time you were in the woods with Lenny. Think of it like a movie. You can pause, rewind, or slow down any details you wish. Understand?
Yes.
Where are you now?
I'm standing next to Kayleigh, my hands are over her ears.
Are you hurting her?
No, protecting her.
Okay. Then go a little forward in time. What do you see now?
I see a car.
Go on. Nothing can hurt you. Remember, this is only a movie. You're completely safe.
I can't... the car vanishes and all of a sudden I'm on the ground in the woods.
The car doesn't vanish Evan. The movie in your head has broken, that's all. But now I've respliced it and I want you to tell me about the car.
It's coming... argh! I can't!
It's a little complicated. I haven't seen results exactly like these before.
Are you sure? Not even with my father?
This is where we're finding most of the hemorrhaging. The outer lining of the cerebral cortex.
Lemme guess. Would that be where the memories are stored?
Hey, Evan. What's the big rush? We don't meet for another hour.
Where are my goddamn books?
Books?
My journals! Where are they?
Think Evan. You've invented a disease that doesn't exist. Alternate universes with colleges, prisons, paraplegia...
But I... I need those books.
You remind me of your father. He always screamed for a photo album even though he never had one.
Photos?
Best not bitch up. Wind up someone's luggage that way.
Can you protect me?
Jesus himself couldn't make me take on the Brotherhood. When they come, just put your mind in another place, man. Be somewhere else.
You're religious Carlos, you believe that bit about "the Lord works in mysterious ways?"
Straight up.
Because I think he sent me to your cell on purpose. For you to help me.
Shit. I knew you were crazy.
I ain't bullshitting. Jesus speaks to me in my dreams.
So when I'm out, I need you to watch my face and hands closely.
You need to see the prison shrink, man.
Just tell me if anything weird happens.
Weirder than this?
Marks, scars, I dunno. Anything could happen I guess.
What did you see? What did it look like?
Signs of the Lord. They just appeared out of nowhere. I thought you were loco!
So you believe me?
We're gonna be late again.
When did you ever care about getting to school on time?
We're putting up pictures for Parent's Night.
Rightytighty, leftylucy.
Thanks. Don't worry Evan, you'll have plenty of time.
Darn it!
Um... can dad come this time?
You know the answer to that.
Can't he come out for one day?
We've been over this a hundred times. It's too dangerous for him.
But Lenny said that his dad's coming... and Tommy and Kayleigh's dad...
All the dads are gonna be there.
I get the point, kiddo. But I'm not so bad, am I?
No.
Good. Because I've been waiting to see your art projects all week and I'd feel terrible if all you thought about was your father not being there.
I don't like this place, Mom. It's creepy. Please can we go? I promise I won't make any more bad pictures!
You'll be fine. Dr. Redfield just wants to give you some tests. You'll like him.
That's why I wanted you to come here, Evan. Dr. Redfield already has a background in memory loss.
My father has a bad memory, too?
These'll bring you luck, Crockett.
Great. I'll see you soon.
What happened?
Honey. What were you doing with that?
I... I don't remember.
Now your father may seem sleepy to you, but that's just because of his medicine, okay?
Okay.
I don't know... I don't remember.
Something must've happened! What set him off?
I... I blacked out.
Don't try to use your blackouts to get out of this one!
Please, mom. People will talk.
I can't help it. I'm just so proud of you. You've got the highest grades in all of your classes.
Did Da  Jason  get good grades?
Please. He got straight A's without ever touching a book. That was the one area where his memory never failed him.
Ma? Did he ever say that he figured out a way to recall a lost memory years after he blacked it out for the first time?
Why do you ask?
No, it's just weird with him being such a brain and all, I just wondered if he was ever able to remember stuff he'd forgotten.
When he was around your age... almost exactly your age. He said he figured out a trick to remember the past.
I couldn't tell if they were real memories or just phantoms. You know, he might only have thought he actually remembered them...
Sure...
And then, just before it got so bad that he had to be committed, he said that he could...
What? What could he do?
...I spoke to your new lawyer about the appeal. He's sure he can get you off on selfdefense, so if you're patient.
How long will I be in here?
I don't know. These things take time.
How's Kayleigh doing? She all right?
I found these. The others are still in storage.
Damn it, Mom. I told you I need them all!
Fine. You'll get them, Evan. But I think it's far more important to focus on your case right now.
Okay, doc. What's the damage? How much time have I got?
Cute, Evan.
What does that mean for Evan?
He's saying it's like forty years worth of new memories have been jammed in my brain since last year. Overload city. 'Sat about the gist of it, doc?
There must be a way to fix this.
Fix?
I just need the entry about the blockbuster. Wait, shit, no arms. I never even got the chance to write it.
You're. Acting. Like your father.
Come on, Mom. Just 'cause Dad was my age when he started going crazy doesn't mean that I'm nuts.
How. Did you. Know that?
You told me that on Parents' Weekend. Remember? Wait, that wasn't me. Or you.
Just. Like. Jason.
Don't worry. I'm gonna get you out of here.
And you say he doesn't remember any of it?
Not according to his teacher. It just got me thinking about Jason and what if Evan's inherited his father's condition?
Hold it, hold it, Andrea. Let's not jump to conclusions. I'll run some preliminary tests, see what we can rule out.
Just tell me that Evan doesn't have Jason's illness...
Look, Andrea, I'm sure he'll test negative for brain disorders. But there's something else you can try to monitor his memory.
Anything.
A journal. Just have him write down everything he does.
Why? What for?
It could be extremely useful to jog his memory. See if he remembers anything new the next day. And I'll have the test results back in a few days.
Well, the good news is that the results are negative. I've found no evidence in the way of lesions, hemorrhaging, tumors...
And the bad news?
Unfortunately, we've got nothing to work with. It's harder playing detective now.
But you must have something to go on?
If I had to guess, I'd say the blackouts are stress related.
But he's seven. What kind of stress can he have?
Plenty. Who knows? Maybe he's got severe coping problems about not having a father. Did you say the last blackout occurred when he was with his friend's dad.
Come on, I doubt the answer's that simple.
You'd be surprised how often they are.
Well, he has been pushing me to meet his father, but I've been putting it off.
It's worth a shot. I can arrange a controlled meeting. A careful dose of sedatives for Jason, some security, you and I monitoring. Evan comes in for a quick visit and with any luck, no more missing father complex.
How soon?...
Evan wake up, oh please wake up!
Nine, ten. And you're awake! Open your eyes, dammit!
Actually, these tests weren't available twenty years ago.
So what did you find.
No dances, just tell me.
The hemorrhaging... the neural damage is irreparable. I'm frankly surprised he still has use of his motor functions.
Mrs. Treborn! I need to speak with you!
I'm sorry, but can it wait til tonight? I'm already late for work 
I was going to show this to the principal, but I wanted to talk to you first.
What is it?
Yesterday I had all the children draw pictures of what they wanted to be when they grew up. Most of them made drawings of what their parents did, but this...
Thank you for showing it to me first. I'll... I'll take care of it. Can I have the picture?
Of course. There is one more thing, Mrs. Treborn. And I feel bad for mentioning it...
What?
When I asked Evan about his drawing, well, he didn't remember doing it.
We can't stop!
They've tricked us.
What's the crazy man saying, Lord?
The dogs have a scent. My scent. Someone must have given it to them.
Who would do such a thing?
Exactly.
I thought I was dead when ya pulled that dagger!
No English lord would trust an Irishman!
Fine speech. Now what do we do?
Bring out our spearmen and set them in the field.
Come, it'll help you sleep.
Aye. But it won't let me dream.
Wait! ...I respect what you said. But remember, these men have lands, castles. Much to risk.
And the common man who bleeds on the battlefield, does he risk less?
No. But from top to bottom this country has no sense of itself. Its nobles share allegiance with England and its clans war with each other. If you make enemies on both sides of the border, you'll end up dead.
We all end up dead. It's only a question of how. And why.
I'm no coward! I want what you want! But we need the nobles.
Nobles? What does that mean  to be noble? Your title gives you claim to the throne of our country. But men don't follow titles, they follow courage! Your arm speaks louder than your tongue. Our people know you. Noble and common, they respect you. If you would lead them toward freedom, they would follow you. And so would I.
War finds me willing. I know it won't bring back all I have lost. But it can bring what none of us have ever had  a country of our own. For that we need a king. We need you.
I am trying.
Then tell me what a king is! Is he a man who believes only what others believe? Is he one who calculates the numbers for and against him but never weighs the strength in your own heart? There is strength in you. I see it. I know it.
I must... consult with my father.
And I will consult with mine.
I am the Princess of Wales.
Wife of Edward, the king's son?
I come as the king's servant, and with his authority.
It's battle I want, not talk.
But now that I am here, will you speak with a woman?
I understand that you have recently been given the rank of knight.
I have been given nothing. God makes men what they are.
Did God make you the sacker of peaceful cities? The executioner of the king's nephew, my husband's own cousin?
York was the staging point for every invasion of my country. And that royal cousin hanged a hundred Scots, even women and children, from the city walls.
That is not possible.
Let us talk plainly. You invade England. But you cannot complete the conquest, so far from your shelter and supply. The King proposes that you withdraw your attack. In return he grants you title, estates, and this chest with a thousand pounds of gold, which I am to pay to you personally.
A Lordship. And gold. That I should become Judas.
Peace is made is such ways.
SLAVES ARE MADE IN SUCH WAYS!
I understand you have suffered. I know... about your woman.
She was my wife. We married in secret because I would not share her with an English lord. They killed her to get to me. And she was pregnant.
A meeting in a barn. It had to be a trap. And only you would know I would be aware of it.
It does me good to see you.
Why did you?
Because of the way you're looking at me now. The same way... as when we met.
You have... you have a husband.
I have taken vows. More than one. I've vowed faithfulness to my husband, and sworn to give him a son. And I cannot keep both promises.
You understand. Consider, before you laugh and say no. You will never own a throne, though you deserve one. But just as the sun will rise tomorrow, some man will rule England. And what if his veins ran not with the blood of Longshanks, but with that of a true king?
I cannot love you for the sake of revenge.
No. But can you love me for the sake of all you loved and lost? Or simply love me... because I love you?
M'lady... what kindness of you to visit a stranger.
Sir, I... come to beg you to confess all, and swear allegiance to the king, that he might show you mercy.
Will he show mercy to my country? Will he take back his soldiers, and let us rule ourselves?
Mercy... is to die quickly. Perhaps even live in the Tower. In time, who knows what can happen, if you can only live.
If I swear to him, then everything I am is dead already.
You will die! It will be awful!
Every man dies. Not every man really lives.
Drink this! It will dull your pain.
It will numb my wits, and I must have them all. If I'm senseless, or if I wail, then Longshanks will have broken me.
I can't bear the thought of your torture. Take it!
When the king returns he will bury them in those new clothes. Scotland is in chaos. Your husband is secretly sending an army north.
How do you know this?
Last night I slept with a member of the War Council.
He shouldn't be telling secrets in bed.
Ah, Oui! Englishmen don't know what a tongue is for.
This Scottish rebel... Wallace? He fights to avenge a woman?
A magistrate wished to capture him, and found he had a secret lover, so he cut the girl's throat to tempt Wallace to fight  and fight he did.
Knowing his passion for his lost love, they next plotted to take him by desecrating the graves of his father and brother and setting an ambush at the grave of his wife. He fought his way through the trap and carried her body to a secret place! Now that is romance, Oui?
...I wouldn't know.
I'm dreaming.
Yes, you are. And you must wake.
I don't want to wake. I want to stay with you.
And I with you. But you must wake.
I need you so much! I love you!
Wake up, William. Wake up!
Your father doesn't like me, does he?
It's not you. He dislikes that you're a Wallace. He just says... the Wallaces don't seem to live for very long.
Thank you for accepting.
Thank you for inviting.
I'll invite you again, but your mother thinks I'm crazy.
You are. And I'll come again.
You've been here before?
Some nights. I have dreams. Mostly dreams I don't want. I started riding at night to fill up my mind so that when I did sleep I'd dream only of the ride and the adventure.
Did it work?
No. You don't choose your dreams. Your dreams choose you.
I want... to marry you!
I... accept your proposal!
I'm not just saying it!
Nor I!
But I won't give you up to any nobleman.
You scare me.
I don't want to scare you. I want to be yours, and you mine. Every night like this one.
This night is too beautiful to have again.
I will be with you, like this. Forever.
I've missed you.
Shush. It's only been a day. And it's seemed like forever.
Tonight then.
My parents are growing suspicious! I can't keep meeting you every night!
Then when?
...Tonight!
Treason. Against whom?
Against thy king, thou vile fool! Hast thou anything to say?
Never, in my whole life, did I swear allegiance to your king 
It matters not, he is thy king!
 while many who serve him have taken and broken his oath many times. I cannot commit treason, if I have never been his subject!
Confess, and you may receive a quick death. Deny, and you must be purified by pain. Do you confess? ...DO YOU CONFESS?!
I do not confess.
Then on the morrow, thou shalt receive they purification... And in the end, I promise you'll beg for the axe.
Where is my son?
Your pardon, M'lord, he asked me to come in his stead.
I sent for him  and the little coward send you?!
Shall I leave, M'lord?
If he wants his queen to rule, then you stay and learn how! I will deal with him.
My son's loyal wife returns, unkilled by the heathen. So he accepted our bribe.
No. He did not.
Then why does he stay? My scouts say he has not advanced.
He waits. For you. He says he will attack no more towns  if you are man enough to come fight him.
You spoke with this Wallace in private. What kind of man is he?
...A mindless barbarian. Not a king like you, M'lord.
The Scottish nobles have sent him no support. His army starves. Our stall has worked, he must withdraw. You may return to your embroidery.
Humbly, M'lord.
No. I have it to ease the suffering of the children of this war.
This is what happens when you must send a woman. And a fool.
Forgive me, Sire. I thought that generosity might demonstrate your greatness to those you mean to rule.
My greatness is better demonstrated with this.
I have faced him. Have you?
Let her speak.
He will fight you forever. But what does he fight for? Freedom first, and peace. So grant them.
I am the one who is rotting. But I think your face looks graver than mine.
He was so brave. With courage alone he nearly won.
So more men were slaughtered uselessly!
He broke because of me. I saw it. He lost all will to fight.
We must have alliance with England to prevail here. You achieved that! You saved your family, increased your lands! In time you will have all the power in Scotland!... Yet you grieve.
In my heart I had begun to hope that he would never break.
All men lose heart. All betray. It is exactly why we must make the choices we make.
All right, Father, I'll ask him! If I risk my neck for you, will I get a chance to kill Englishmen?
Is your Poppa a ghost  or do you converse with God Almighty?
In order to find his equal, and Irishman is forced to talk to God. Yes, Father!... The Almighty says don't change the subject, just answer the fookin' question.
Excellent! Stephen is my name. I'm the most wanted man on the Emerald Isle. Except I'm not on the Emerald Isle of course, more's the pity.
A common thief.
A patriot!
We must run in different directions!
We don't split up!
They used hounds on us in Ireland, it's the only way!
They're coming!
How many?
Three, maybe more!
Armed?
They're English soldiers, ain't they?
With your father and brother gone, they'll kill us and burn the farm!
It's up to us, Hamish!
Wanna stay with me tonight?
I wanna have supper waitin'.
We'll get those English pigs tomorrow.
Aye, we'll get 'em.
Test of manhood.
You win.
Call it a test of soldiery, then. The English won't let us train with weapons, so we train with stones.
The test of a soldier is not in his arm. It's here.
I still say this is no test. A catapult can throw a stone farther than a man can.
That depends on the man.
Can you do it when it matters? As it matters in battle? Could you crush a man with that throw?
I could crush you like a roach.
You'll move
I will not.
Good to see you again.
I should'a remembered the eggs.
I'll wait... back there.
Hamish, I... thank...
We make spears. A hundred spears. Fourteen feet long.
Fourteen? 
The Bruce is not coming, William.
Mornay has come. So will the Bruce.
Stephen ready?
Aye.
Thanks for the food and drink. And for bringing 'em yourselves.
We're here to stay. We don't care to live, if we can't fight beside ya.
Rest, William.
I rest.
Your rest is making me exhausted.
You know it's a trap.
Probably. But we can't win alone. We know that. This is the only way.
I don't want to be a martyr.
Nor I! I want to live! I want a home and children and peace. I've asked god for those things. But He's brought me this sword. And if He wills that I must lay it down to have what He wants for my country, then I'll do that too.
That's just a dream, William!
We've lived a dream together. A dream of freedom!
Your dreams aren't about freedom! They're about Marion! You have to be a hero, because you think she sees you! Is that it?
My dreams of Marion are gone. I killed them myself. If I knew I could live with her on the other side of death, I'd welcome it.
Keep these. We're going too.
No. One of us is enough.
What is it?!
You directed me to report to you the moment the king's conference was ended.
So I did! And what was so important about it?
Scotland. He intends 
Shut up, would you! How can I concentrate?!
...His majesty was quite keen that you should understand 
All so very boring! He wants me to learn to fight too, so let me do it!
No, M'lord.
Look at me. I said LOOK AT ME!
Now, my flower, do you understand?
Yes. I had thought that... I was loathsome to you. Perhaps I am. If I may be excused, M'lord.
You may.
Good day to you, M'Lords.
You mock us with a smile?
I am cheerful with a plan to soothe your miseries. All of England shudders with the news of renewed rebellion.
Wallace's followers.
Wallace himself. If you wish to pretend a ghost rallies new volunteers in every Scottish town, I leave you to your hauntings. If you wish to take him, I know a way.
The little cow is insane 
Grant, as you do everything else, with treachery. Offer him a truce to discuss terms, and send me to my castle at Locharmbie as your emissary. He trusts me. Pick thirty of your finest assassins for me to take along. And I will set the meeting, and the ambush.
Is it true? Wallace is captured?
Simply because he eluded your trap, do you think he is more than a man? My father is dying. Perhaps you should think of our coronation.
When will his trial be?
Wallace's? For treason there is no trial. Tomorrow he will be charged, then executed.
I have come to beg for the life of William Wallace.
You fancy him.
I respect him. At worst he was a worthy enemy. Show mercy... Oh thou great king... and win the respect of your own people.
Nor you. To you that word is as unfamiliar as love.
Before he lost his powers of speech, he told me his one comfort was that he would live to know Wallace was dead.
Scottish rebels have routed Lord Bottoms!
I hear. This Wallace is a bandit, nothing more.
What news of the north?
Nothing new, Majesty. We have sent riders to speed any word.
While I am in France fighting to expand your future kingdom I learn that Stirling castle is lost, our entire northern army wiped out! And you have done nothing?!
I have ordered conscriptions...
Wallace has sacked York!
Impossible. How dare you bring a panicky lie.
The weapon has been outlawed by the Pope himself!
So the Scots will have none of them, will they? My armorers have already made a thousand.
Now we kill two birds at one stroke. We recruit from Scotland for our armies in France.
The Scots will fight for us?
What choice do they have? Now they must serve us or starve.
But if we have not caught Wallace 
He is gone! Finished! Dead! If he has not yet bled to death or had his throat cut for him, he will not survive the winter. It is very cold  is it not, our flower?
His legend grows! It will be worse than before!
You let Wallace escape your whole army. You cannot blame me for this.
Young Robert, we are honored 
My father hears that Longshanks has granted prima noctes.
Clearly meant to draw more of his supporters here.
A wise plan. And how is your father? We have missed him at the council.
He strained his leg so that it pains him to ride. But he sends his greetings  and says that I speak for all the Bruces. And for Scotland.
Does anyone know his politics?
No. But his weight with the commoners could unbalance everything. The Balliols will kiss his ass, so we must.
May he rest in peace... You have already sealed the coffin?
He was a modest man.
It will not be long before Longshanks too is encased in stone, and his crowns divided for others to wear.
If I pay homage to another's throne, then how am I a king?
Homage is nothing. It is the crown that matters!
The crown is that of Scotland. And Scotland is William Wallace.
That is another matter. There is a price to all this, required both by Longshanks and our nobles. Pay it, and you will be our king. And we will have peace.
He won't come.
He will. I know he will.
Longshanks promised!
You are surprised he would lie? Balliol was murdered in a church yesterday. You are Longshanks' new designate. You will be king.
But... what will you do?
I will invade England. And defeat the English on their own ground.
Invade?! That's impossible, it 
A thousand. You have made me Guardian of Scotland. So I tell you this is what we face.
We must sue for peace.
Peace?!
We cannot defeat this 
With cavalry  not heavy, like the English, but light, fast horsemen, like you nobles employ  we could outmaneuver their bowmen!
It is suicide.
Sir William. We come to seek a meeting.
You've all sworn to Longshanks.
An oath to a liar is no oath at all. An oath to a patriot is a vow indeed. Every man of us is ready to swear loyalty to you.
So let the council swear publicly.
We cannot. Some scarcely believe you are alive. Other think you'll pay them Mornay's wages. We bid you to Edinburgh. Meet us at the city gates, two days from now, at sunset. Pledge us your pardon and we will unite behind you. Scotland will be one.
I will meet you, but only one way  if Robert the Bruce is there, and puts his hand on my Bible, and swears his loyalty to Scotland.
He has already agreed to come.
We'll sleep here tonight. You'll come home with me. We'll let the house, and the lands too; plenty of willing neighbors.
I don't want to leave.
Didn't want your father to die either, did ya? But it happened.
Did the priest say anything about the Resurrection? Or was it all about Judgment?
It was in Latin, sir.
Non loquis Latinum? You don't speak Latin? We have to fix that, won't we? Did he give the poetic benediction? The Lord bless thee and keep thee? Patris Benefactum et  ...It was Malcolm's favorite.
What are they doing?
Saying goodbye in their own way  in outlawed tartans, with outlawed pipes, playing outlawed tunes.
Someone dead from this household?
We just had a funeral, isn't that what it means in England as well?
What it means in England  and in Scotland too  is that rebels have forfeited their lands. We were ambushed last night. But the Scots dragged their dead away.
My brother and nephew perished two days ago, when their hay cart turned over.
Then we'll just have a peek at the wounds. Dig 'em up!
They've been sanctified and buried in the holy rites of God's church, and any hand that disturbs them now takes on eternal damnation. So please  do it.
Do we know what this says?
Yup... The main word there, the file heading, translates as: Treadstone.
What the hell is a "Treadstone?"
Anything?
No. Munich's a bust. He's loose.
Are we locked up?
Black coat, possibly leather. Dark slacks. Dark tshirt. He says they're gonna try and corral the guests on the street over there, and then check them out, but...
Yeah, that'll work...What the hell was he doing here?
Here's what I've got. Remember Vladimir Neski? Russian politician? Seven years ago, he was due to speak to a group of European Oil ministers here at the hotel. He never did. He was murdered.
By who?
His wife. In room 645. Then she shot herself.
Alright... I want you, Kurt and Kim to stay on Bourne, track everything that's out there...
We're looking at all Berlin outbound. Good news is, every train station in Berlin has thirty to forty fixed, digital security cameras. Common feed.
Are we hacking or asking?
Yes. In that order.
And what about you, anything?
What kind of problems?
Depression. Anger. Compulsive behaviors. They had physical symptoms  headaches  sensitivity to light 
Amnesia?
Before this? Before Bourne? No.
Good luck.
You were his local contact. You were with him the night Conklin died. You're coming with us.
I'm curious about Bourne. Your interpretation of his condition. You have specific training in the identification and diagnosis of psychological conditions?
Am I a doctor, no, but...
Are you an expert in amnesia?
Look, what do you want me to say? I was there. I believed him.
Believed what?
I believed Jason Bourne had suffered a severe traumatic breakdown.
So he fooled you.
If you say so.
Not good enough. You're the person who floated this amnesia story. Ever feel sorry for him? For what he'd been through?
You're making it out like we're friends here or something. I met him alone twice.
You felt nothing? No spark? Two young people in Paris? Dangerous missions? Life and death?
You mean, did I want a date?
Did you?
These were killers. Conklin had them all jacked up. They were Dobermans.
Some women like Dobermans 
What do you want from me? I was reassigned. I'm out.
See, that's a problem for me, Nicky. Whatever he's doing, we need to end it. This isn't the kind of mess you walk away from.
I don't think we need to keep looking for him anyway.
And why is that?
Because he's doing just what he said he'd do. He's coming for us.
Is it fresh?
It's got caffeine in it. That's all I know.
What do you think? Is he coming in?
I don't know. He was sick. He wanted out. I believed him.
Alright...
Let's give him half an hour.
So?
Felt promising. It's a start.
Mr. Nevins?
Who's this?
Pamela Landy, again. Where do we stand?
How long have you worked for the agency?
Me? Four years.
If you ever want to make it to five, you're gonna listen to me real close. Jason Bourne is armed and extremely dangerous. A week ago, he assassinated two men in Berlin, one of whom was a highlyexperienced field officer...
I want that area secured, I want any evidence secured and I want it done now. Is that clear??
Yes, sir  ma'am...
I'm getting on a plane to Berlin in 45 minutes, which means you are going to call me back in 30, and when I ask you where we stand, I had better be impressed. My mobile number is...
I'm here. So is Donnie and Jack Weller. We understand you're using the full allocation for this buy?
That's where we came out.
It's a lot of money, Pam.
We're talking raw, unprocessed KGB files. It's not something we can go out and comparison shop.
Still...
For a thief. A mole. I vetted the source, Marty. He's real. If it does nothing more than narrow the list of suspects, it's a bargain at ten times the price.
Okay, cut to the chase, Pam. What are you selling?
I think that Bourne and Conklin were in business. That Bourne is still involved. And that whatever information I was going to buy in Berlin, it was big enough to make Bourne come out from wherever he's been hiding to kill again. How's that scan?
Show me.
Here?
Now. Show now.
This is everything? Is there.
Is there. Is all there.
 who?  who else is here? 
 no!  not me!  no other people! 
 shut up!  just shut the 
We need to get in there.
I'm working on it.
 so there were two of these explosive charges placed on the power lines. One of them failed. The fingerprint... That's from the one that didn't go off.
And the Germans can't match it?
Looks like he's been detained.
Who's going? Us?
There's only a Consulate, they sent a field officer out half an hour ago 
Then get a number, they need to know who they're dealing with.
 Kurt's reopening all the wyfi and sat links 
 uplink all relevant files to Kim   and I want them to contact anyone who had anything to do with Treadstone 
 go  take the van! 
 the hotel  how far? 
Maybe he just needed a place to spend the night?
I want to look at the room. Check it out.
Alright... take it down.
What?
This stays between you and I. We finally have an edge. I don't want to lose it.
We'll know for sure when we get the security tapes.
But we can relax. We tracked him. He's on a train to Moscow.
You're sure?
What? The tapes?
Hold on... Yep. And Abbott just direct dialed Moscow from his room...
It's me.
Bourne?
What do you want?
I want to come in.
Okay, how do you want to do it?
I want someone I know to take me in.
Who?
There was a girl in Paris. Part of the program. She used to handle the medication.
Okay, Jason, your move.
Alexanderplatz. 30 minutes. Under the World Clock. Alone. Give her your phone.
Where am I?
Ramstein Air Base, Germany. Before the wall fell you would have woken up in a Russian prison hospital.
Oh, shit...
Careful...
Why am I alive?
Are you disappointed?
Thank you for your gift. I'm sorry about Marie.
What's that?
Do you think you can read? Are you well enough?
Don't need it. I remember everything.
Sounds like a threat.
You didn't answer my question.
Why you're alive? You're alive because you're special. Because she kept you alive. Because we want you back on our side.
See that tram coming around the corner?
Yes.
Get on it.
I did... Jason, I swear, I did... I told them... I told them I believed you...
Who is Pamela Landy?
You hear me? I believed you.
IS SHE RUNNING TREADSTONE?
Why is she trying to kill me?
They know! They know you were here. They know you killed these two guys. They know you and Conklin had something on the side. They don't know what it is, but they know!
How do they know that? How can they know any of that?
What is this, a game?
I want to hear it from you.
Say it.
Last week an Agency field officer went to make a buy from a Russian national.
A Russian?
It was Pamela Landy's op. The guy was going to sellout a mole or something. I haven't been debriefed on exactly what it was.
Last week? When?
And you got to him before we could.
I killed him???
You left a print! There was Kel that didn't go off! There was a partial print, they tracked it back to Treadstone! They know it's you!
I left a fingerprint! You fucking people.
What was Landy buying? What kind of files? WHAT WAS SHE BUYING?
Conklin! Stuff on Conklin!
Why are you here, then?
Please  I'm only here because of Paris  because they can't figure out what you're doing  I'm here because of Abbott 
Abbott?
He closed down Treadstone  he took care of me after Paris...
So when was I here?
What do you mean?
For Treadstone. In Berlin. You know my file. I did a job here. When?
No. You never worked Berlin.
My first job.
Your first assignment was Geneva.
That's a lie!
You never worked Berlin...
No... Jason... please...
I was here!
...it's not in the file... I swear... I know your file... your first job was Geneva!... I swear to God you never worked here!...
Where were you, Jason? In the car.
Conklin up front.
I'll get the book.
No. There's nothing new.
You're sure? We should still  we should write it down.
Two years we're scribbling in a notebook 
 it hasn't been two years 
 it's always bad and it's never anything but bits and pieces anyway! You ever think that maybe it's just making it worse? You don't wonder that?
We write them down because sooner or later you're going to remember something good.
I do remember something good. All the time. I remember you.
I'm trying, Marie, Okay?
I worry when you get like this.
It's just a nightmare.
I don't mean that. I worry when you try to ignore it.
Sleep. Sleep now.
I should be better by now.
You are better. And I think it's not memories at all. It's just a dream you keep having over and over.
But it ends up the same.
One day it will be different. It just takes time. We'll make new memories. You and me.
No... How?
The Telegraph office.
But we were so careful.
We pushed it. We got lazy.
But you're sure?
He was at the campground yesterday.
So...
It's wrong. Guy with a rental car and hundred dollar sneakers sleeps in a tent?
That's crazy.
No. Not this. This is real. And he's right there...
Where 
Back there  at the corner  Hyundai  silver 
...but you're not  you're not sure...
We can't wait to be sure.
I don't want to move again... I like it here.
Look, we clear out, we get to the shack, we get safe. We hang there awhile. I'll come back. I'll check it out. But right now we can't 
 where's left to go? 
 there's places  we can't afford to be wrong!
You drive.
What?
Switch! You drive!
 where? 
 make the left  toward the bridge 
Jesus!   is he back there? 
 not yet 
 it's just him? 
 yeah  one guy  I don't think he was ready 
 hang on 
You keep going to the shack. I'll meet you there in an hour.
Where are you going?
I'm going to bail on the other side and wait. This bridge is the only way he can follow.
What if it's not who you think it is?
If he crosses the bridge, it is.
There must be another way!
I warned them, Marie. I told them to leave us alone.
Jason, please don't do this...it won't ever be over like this.
There's no choice.
I love you, too.
Tell me later.
I wanted to kill him.
But you found another choice.
I did.
It wouldn't have changed the way you feel.
It might have.
I know it's a dream.
You do?
I only dream about people who are dead.
God, I miss you. I don't know what to do without you.
Jason. You know exactly what to do. That is your mission now.
I emptied it.
Felt a little light.
Drop it.
Front. Use your teeth.
Sorry. Old habits.
You still should've moved.
I like it here. Last time I saw you was Greece. You had a good spot.
So why didn't you kill me then?
She wouldn't let me. She's the only reason you're alive.
What do you want?
Conklin.
He's dead.
Try again.
Shot dead in Paris. Dead the night you walked out.
You're lying. If it's over, why are they after me?
I don't know.
Who sent you to Greece?
A voice. A voice from the States. Someone new.
Pamela Landy?
I don't know who that is.
What's going on in Berlin?
I don't know! Why would I lie?
She really did that? Told you not to kill me? I had a woman once. But after a while, what do you talk about? I mean, for us. The work. You can't tell them who you are...
I did.
You called it in?
I'm sorry.
How long? How long do I have 
 car keys?
 my coat  but we should 
 what? 
 take the back  get another car 
Sit. Can you... [The chair. Have the chair.]
I speak English.
Of all the people in the world, you're the only one I have anything to offer. That's why I came here.
Okay.
It's nice. Does this picture mean anything to you? Hmm?
It's nothing. It's just a picture.
No. It's because you don't know how they died.
No, I do.
I would want to know. I would want to know that my mother didn't kill my father. I would want to know that she didn't kill herself.
What?
It changes things. That knowledge. Doesn't it?
Yes...
That's not what happened to your parents.
Then what?
I killed them.
It was my job. My first time. Your father was supposed to be alone. But then your mother, she came out of nowhere... I had to change my plan. You understand me? You don't have to live like that anymore. Thinking that.
You killed them.
They loved you. And I killed them.
How... how can... how can you be here and say this?
I don't want you to forgive me.
It doesn't matter. Your life is hard enough.
You're a liar.
You know I'm not.
YOU'RE A LIAR!
Look at me.
I should kill you... if it's true you should die... I should kill you now!
I can't let you do that either.
Because you're afraid!
No. Because you don't want to know how it feels.
I have to go now.
Is this really happening?
I'm sorry.
Sir...
Thanks.
She say what time I should call?
The sooner the better.
I did my box work, but I wanted to show you before I showed Landy. I came out here last night because none of this was making any sense. I mean, I'm with you on this, Conklin was a nut, but a traitor? I just can't get there.
What do you have, Danny?
You put a fourgam Kel on here and it's gonna take out power to the building. You know that. What you can't know, is if it's gonna blow the room with it.
And?
There were two charges, they were supposed to go off simultaneously. The second one, the one that didn't go off, was down here... First of all, this is nothing, it's a subline for the breaker above. Second, why put the charge all the way down here? If you're good enough to get in here and handle the gear, you're good enough to know you don't need this. Bourne would know.
It was staged?
Is it a slam dunk? No, but...
Jesus...
Okay. What if someone decided to cover their tracks by blaming Conklin and Bourne. What if Bourne didn't have anything to do with this?
Keep going...
Something's been going on here in Europe. And it's still going on. Post Conklin. Who's been in Berlin?
Lots of people...
Including Landy... She had access to the archives.
Who else knows about this?
Nobody. You. I had to tell you, right?
Show me again...
Okay...
Treadstone.
Never heard of it.
That's not gonna fly.
With all due respect, Pam, I think you might've wandered a little past your paygrade.
And what are we looking for?
I want to know about Treadstone.
To know about it? It was a kill squad. Black on black. Closed down two years ago. Nobody wants to know about Treadstone. Not around here. You better take this back to Marty and make sure he knows what you're doing.
He does. I've been down to the archives. I have the files, Ward.
Let's talk about Conklin.
What are you after, Pam? You want to fry me? You want my desk? Is that it?
I want to know what happened.
What happened? Jason Bourne happened. You've got the files? Then let's cut the crap. It went wrong. Conklin had these guys wound so tight they were bound to snap. Bourne was his number one  guy went out to work, screwed the op and never came back. Conklin couldn't fix it, couldn't find Bourne, couldn't adjust. It all went sideways. Finally there were no options left.
So you had Conklin killed. I mean, if we're cutting the crap...
I've given thirty years and two marriages to this agency. I've shoveled shit on four continents. I'm due to retire next year and believe me, I need my pension, but if you think I'm gonna sit here and let you dangle me with this, you can go to hell. Marshall too. It had to be done.
And Bourne? Where's he now?
Dead in a ditch? Drunk in a bar in Mogadishu? Who knows?
I think I do. We had a deal going down in Berlin last week. During the buy, both our Field Agent and the seller were killed. We pulled a fingerprint from a timing charge that didn't go off. They were killed by Jason Bourne.
...Ivan Mevedev  senior financial manager  worked for one of the new Russian petroleum companies, Pecos Oil. He claimed to know where the money landed. We believe this could have only happened with help from someone inside the Agency... This...
...this is Conklin's computer.
...At the time of his death, Conklin was sitting on a personal account in the amount of sevenhundred and sixty thousand dollars.
Do you know what his budget was?
Excuse me.
We were throwing money at him. Throwing it at him and asking him to keep it dark.
May I finish?
Conklin might've been a nut, but he wasn't a mole. You have me his calendar for a couple of days, I'll prove he killed Lincoln. This is supposed to be definitive?
What's definitive, is that I just lost two people in Berlin!
So what's your theory? Conklin's reaching out from the grave to protect his good name? The man is dead.
Berlin!
I've already got a team there. I doubt Bourne's in Naples to settle down and raise a family.
You don't know what you're getting into here.
And you do? From the moment he left Treadstone, he has killed and eluded every person that you sent to find him...
Call a Mayday into Berlin station. We need snipers, DOD, whatever they got. Snipers?
Hold on  he said he wants to come in.
My ass he does. You're playing with fire, Pamela. Marshall said nail him to the wall. I don't know how you interpreted that, but I don't think he meant repatriate him.
Don't you want answers?
There are no answers. There's either Jason Bourne alive or Jason Bourne dead. And I for one would prefer the latter. And what about her? You just send her out to this lunatic with no protection?
So what's he doing? You believe him?
It's hard to swallow. The confusion  the amnesia  but he keeps on killing? It's more calculated than sick. What about Nicky? She's the last one to see Bourne in Paris. She's the one he asks for. They disappear...
Well, whatever he's doing, I've had enough  this is now a search and destroy mission. I want the Berlin police fully briefed and   get this out to all the agencies.
Sorry to wake you.
I wasn't sleeping. You OK?
What?
They found Danny Zorn's body. Dead in the basement at the building where my people got hit the first time.
Oh, God... It must have been Bourne.
Did he say anything to you?
No... It must have been Bourne.
Moscow? What the Hell's he going to Moscow for?
Don't know.
Jesus... I, Zorn... I have to call his family. Tell them...
I'm sorry, Ward.
Sit down.
I'd rather stand if it's all the same to you.
I don't exactly know what to say  I'm sorry.
'Why' would be enough for me.
I'm not a traitor. I've served my ountry.
And pocketed a fair amount of change while doing it.
Why not? It was just money.
And Danny Zorn, what was that?
Had to be done.
No good options left?
In the end, honestly, it's hubris. Simple hubris. You reach a point in this game when the only satisfaction left is to see how clever you are.
No. You lost your way.
Well, you're probably right. I guess that's all that hubris is.
You told me Bourne was dead.
There was a mistake.
I'll say. You killed his goddam girlfriend instead. Now they're onto Neski. They're at the Brecker Hotel even as we speak.
Will it track back to us?
No. The files are spotless. Whatever they find, it's just going to make Conklin look worse.
And the Landy woman?
She's done everything I wanted. She bit on Conklin so fast it was laughable. She even found his bogus Swiss account...
Anything else?
Neski was a roadblock. Without me, there's no company, no fortune. You owe me, Uri. One last push.
One last push. One.
Leaving was a business decision. We're both rich, come enjoy it.
What do you mean?
Go to the airport. Get a plane. I'll have a brass band waiting for you.
Save it for Bourne.
What?
He left yesterday on the night train. He's probably just getting in now. You'll have to hurry.
Bourne comes here? Why?
John Mapplethorpe. How are you. Hi.
Good to know you, John.
The world needs dreamers, son.
What?
The world needs dreamers. To relieve the pain of consciousness.
Well, we'll see you later, Bob.
Pleasure to meet you, John.
Nice to meet you.
Hello, my friend. You in the Army, yes?
No. I just have short hair.
Is that your chiquita?
No, my friend knows her.
She Chicano, yes?
You like Chicanos?
Sure.
You a good pool player.
Got a little lucky.
Where's your friend? He go with the chiquita?
I don't know.
She is a good looking woman.
Guess I'll get another Tecate.
Si. Tecate. You like to fight?
What?
Fight. You know.
No. Just pool.
You Hoto?
Fuck you. You a Hoto.
No. Me no Hoto. Tecate?
Right.
How's the weather down there?
Mr. Henry?
Come on in!
It's locked.
No, it's not.
We're closed, sir.
Where's that guy going?
He left his sweater.
Well, I left some money in there.
Where?
In the cash register. Step away from the door.
Where is he? Where is Rob?
I don't know. Maybe in literature. That's his section.
You got that?
Where did he go?
Who? Applejack?
Why did he go that way?
He's going to watch the back stairwell, remember? Don't worry about it.
What's the story?
Can't get it. It won't...
What can we do?
Dignan. Good to see you. Good to see you Applejack. Who are you?
This is Anthony Adams, Mr. Henry.
This is no good.
Is he in?
I don't know. Are you in, Anthony?
What do you mean grammar?
The basic grammatical rules of robbing.
The grammar?
Crowd control. Crowd control. Wake up, guys.
Oh, yeah.
You're going to need a boxman for this one. But that can be arranged.
Is he good?
He's damn good.
Join the party, fellas.
We're just going over a few things.
You got to have fun with it. There's no point if you're not having any fun. Would you like me to be there tomorrow?
Yes.
Why?
Well, I think 
No, if I go out on this job, then it's just another score by Mr. Henry. And I don't see it like that. This is your job. Your creation. I want you to try this.
How long do you have to go?
26 weeks.
And what does that cover?
Social issues. Crime prevention.
Hand to hand combat?
Ground defense.
Did you hear that?
How you doing, Bob?
Hey, Jackson. How's it going?
You keeping out of trouble?
I'm trying.
This boy's a troublemaker. He used to tear this place apart.
Your brother was up here the other day. He said you ran away from home.
He said what?
He said you ran away from home.
No. I didn't run away. I went out of town.
How's that 700 bucks coming?
I'm working on it.
Hard to find it sitting by the pool drinking beer and bullshitting.
Fancy seeing you here, Bob.
Yeah. Hey, Clay.
I might have mentioned it.
John, I'm twentysix years old I didn't run away from home.
I know, Bob. You were on a secret mission.
I'd appreciate it if you didn't go around telling people lies about me.
Right. I'm sorry. You've got a reputation to think about.
Well, what do you think?
I don't know, Bob. What about one of those?
I'm not allowed to drive those.
Not even for emergencies?
No.
I thought your parents were in Italy.
They are.
So who's going to know?
My brother.
He looks like he was designed by scientists. For desert warfare.
That never would of 
Let's cut the bullshit.
If you're that worried, maybe we should just steal one.
What are you talking about, Bob?
Can you use a coaster.
You stole a TransAm.
Yes. I did.
OK, Bob.
It's true, Dignan.
Well. What do you want to do? You want to steal one or just drive your car?
I'll just drive my car.
How much could you grow? Realistically.
As much as I want. When these plants bud I'll probably have about six thousand dollars worth of weed.
Six thousand dollars? Come on, Bob.
You should take a look. I have an entire crop in my backyard.
If it's that easy why doesn't everybody grow them?
Good question.
Don't you guys tell anybody about my plants.
You're paranoid, Bob.
Yeah, but don't tell anybody.
What was that all about?
I can't believe you said that.
What did I say?
I told you he's crazy.
The guy is fucking insane.
I warned you, Dignan.
You said it like it was a big joke, Bob. Like he's wild.
No, I was saying crazy like a lunatic.
I know that now. He's a fucking psycho.
Well, don't blame me. I told you.
I do blame you, Bob. And woah. Look at her.
Where'd she go?
Maybe she turned.
I think we might of scared her.
Let's just go.
I'm going to take a look at this.
Hang on. This is important, Bob. Anthony and I are responsible for the internal situation. The money and the people. You're responsible for the external situation. The streets and the getaway.
That's my responsibility.
That's your domain.
OK.
Bob.
I'm paying attention. I just want to look at it for a minute.
What's your fucking problem? You're a shithead!
I just want to see how much bullets it takes.
I paid for it.
God DAMMIT.
He doesn't get it. Held never understand what we're trying to accomplish here. It's too dangerous for him.
Well, in reality it's not that dangerous, Bob. It's only dangerous if you don't know what you're doing.
Yeah, but what if some nut pulled gun on you?
You know, Bob, Anthony did kill someone. He electrocuted our janitor senior year.
He electrocuted someone?
It was an accidental. I don't want to go into the details. It was just one of those senior pranks that didn't really go right. I mean, obviously, since Swifty's dead. That's why Anthony never graduated.
His name was Swifty?
Yeah. One of the nicest old guys you'd ever know.
That's too bad.
You know, when somebody gets electrocuted, their skin starts smoking. At least Swifty's did.
What are you doing?
I'm putting a piece of tape on my nose.
What happened?
Shhh. Slow down, Bob. Drive natural.
This is natural.
That's good. Keep it at forty.
Did we get it?
Be cool, Bob. Be cool. Make that light.
How much is there?
Don't count it.
Was Dignan screaming like, Get me a bag!
No. I was calm.
You really think he'll remember you?
No. All he'll remember is a guy with a piece of tape on his nose.
Bob, will you please listen?
I don't want to talk about it.
I mean, Jesus Christ, Bob. You didn't have some vicious lunatic screaming, "I'm going to remember you!"
That's true. That would give me nightmares.
Bob, I've got nightmares.
Way to go, Bob!
I told you they were there.
So it's my fault?
In all probability nothing would of happened. But why take the chance? That's why I ran. I mean how many plants were even back there? Five? Ten?
There were more than that.
Shit, Bob. What the fuck did you do that for?
He wouldn't move.
Is he chasing us?
I don't know.
I'm sure he did. We'll have to get new plates.
It's registered in my mother's name.
What the fuck possessed you?
You're the one who kept saying ram him.
Bob. Are you coming?
See you in a little while.
You can go first, Bob.
My brother's in jail.
What are you talking about?
The weed.
But it's not his. How can they arrest Future Man?
They said he's a drug dealer.
I don't think they can make it stick, Bob. I mean, what do they actually have on Future Man?
Well, the marijuana crop is a good start.
That could be anybody's.
They also found my two beam scale in the garage.
Since when is it a crime to have a scale in your house? Everybody has a scale.
The cops say it's a special kind of scale drug dealers use in selling marijuana.
So tell them the truth. What do you use it for?
I was just going to use it to see how much I had.
How long has he been in there?
I don't know.
Then how come they haven't set the bail yet? That's unconstitutional.
We'll have to see when we get back.
What do you mean get back?
Well, obviously, we got to go back.
Bob, that makes no sense.
Dignan, he's my brother. I can't just leave him there.
This could be a trap.
Come on, Dignan.
Don't "Come on, Dignan" me.
I'm going back.
Not in that car you're not.
Watch me.
Good luck, since I got the keys.
Give me the keys, Dignan.
I can't do that, Bob.
Dignan. You're going to give me those keys or you're going to get hurt.
Don't threaten me, Bob.
Goddammit, Dignan! It's my car! If you don't give me my keys, I swear to God 
Future Man would never go to jail for you, I'll tell you that.
His name's not Future Man, Dignan.
I know it's not.
You don't even know his name.
Yes, I do.
What is it?
Just get in the car, Bob.
What's his name?
OK, Bob. I don't know his name. You know why? Because I don't care. He's Future Man. But I care about you. And to me it doesn't make sense to go back to the scene of a crime. Will you get in the car, Bob? This is stupid.
It's not your decision and he's not your brother, Dignan.
That's right. I only have one vote. We'll go talk with Anthony and figure it out.
You've got a beautiful walk, Bob.
Let's go.
Dignan.
Anthony. Bad news.
Hey, Dignan. How's it going?
Not bad.
Come on in. What you been up to?
Not a whole lot, Bob.
It's too bad about what happened on the road.
Yeah. It is.
Right. It was extremely stupid.
I don't expect an apology and I don't even want one. I just want us to 
I can't fucking believe this guy. An apology, Bob?
Man, I don't want to go into this.
You said 48 hours!
I never agreed to that.
Bob, you're lying!
Bullshit.
All right! Backyard! Right now!
Come on!
I don't want to fight you, Dignan.
It wasn't your fault, Bob. You had your brother.
I didn't have any choice.
I'm sorry, Bob.
That's OK.
That's OK.
Look. We want you on the job.
Come on, Bob.
I know it, man. Hang on.
Jesus Christ.
Scarecrow?
Yeah?
Everything OK?
Yeah. We're in the elevator. How's it look back there?
It looks pretty good. There's nobody back here.
Stand by. Bird Dog?
I couldn't hear anything.
Who's watching the door? What the fuck are you doing? Get back in position.
What's wrong with Applejack?
He's having a heart attack or something.
Let's go!
Is he breathing?
I think so.
Jesus Christ. What the fuck is that?
I didn't think there was an alarm.
Take him to the car, Bob.
The elevator broke.
Where's Applejack?
He's stuck between two floors.
Applejack drove.
Run. Run. Let's go.
I said to the DA, That cop who hit me must of given me CRS disease.
What's that?
That's just what the DA asked. CRS is a disease where you can't remember shit.
Do you have your own room?
We don't have rooms, Bob. We have cells.
Do you have your own cell?
No. I have a cellmate. His name's Carl.
Do they let you 
I don't really want to talk about it, Bob.
Hold on 
Here we go.
Wait a second 
Now!
Are you a fag?
You're the faggot.
Dignan and Anthony, this is Little Richard. He's crazy. Totally nuts.
I don't know about that.
Little Richard. Trust me. You're insane. Jesus, this guy used to carry a percussion bomb around in his trunk. You do not want a guy like that loose on the streets.
It seemed like a good idea at the time.
The one and only Little Richard.
There's a lot of valuable shit in there, Applejack. The silver and the china. The crystal. And the grandfather clock. Goddammit, I bet that clock's worth ten grand.
Why the fuck do we need to blow up the car? It doesn't make any goddamn sense.
Just settling an old score. You might say revenge.
That sounds like a lot of bullshit that'll land us in jail.
We might have to take that chance. Cause I feel pretty strongly about this.
Is that Buckethead?
Is that him?
Wait a second.
That's Anthony.
That's your friend Anthony?
Yeah.
What's he doing here?
Looks like he's staying with Buckethead. That's what I figured. He's probably got his own room. Let's see where he's going.
Wait. Did he see us?
We're going too slow. It looks like we're following him.
Mr. Henry pulled that job in 1965. It's famous. Applejack was the wheel man. Did you use this same car, Applejack?
Hell, no. This is a '72. I was driving a '63 Pontiac.
I don't know why the fuck we're having a party. The damn job's not over yet.
Well, this isn't really a party per se.
You don't celebrate til it's over.
True.
What?
Bob! Get back in position!
Nice to meet you, Applejack.
You're Anthony?
Yeah.
I hear you're a good thief.
Did you ever hear of the S. Cooper Trust robbery?
Uhuh.
S. Cooper Trust, in San Francisco?
Uhuh.
Let's go, AbdulShabazz.
AbdulShabazz?
I can knock a man out with a six inch punch.
What do you mean?
Feel this.
Where'd they come from?
The front stairs.
Where were you?
How do you say nineteen?
Dies y nueve.
Right. Yeah. Yo soy dies y nueve. How old are you?
Are you ever scared of finding a dead body in one of these rooms?
No.
It could happen. This is the exact kind of place where it happens. But I don't want to scare you.
Were you born in Mexico?
Cuba.
Oh, really? That's interesting. Do you prefer Cuba or the United States?
Does my skin feel soft, Anthony?
God, yes. Like silk.
What? What?
Like silk?
God. That does sound corny. Oh, your skin feels so soft and silky. But it really kind of does.
Future Man.
Who?
Future Man. You know. Cause he looks like he's from the future.
Did you ever steal a car before?
Yeah. I've stolen two cars before. One Jaguar. And one TransAm. With T Tops. That TransAm was fun to drive.
What do herbs have to do with it? I don't understand the 
Pot is an herb. It's just like any type of gardening.
In your backyard? How do you protect them?
It's private property. Plus I have Hector.
Hector woudn't do anything.
But he's got a loud bark. That's the most important thing is a loud bark.
Could you grow cinnamon?
I don't know. Sure, I guess.
You could make your own cinnamon toast.
Let them fight.
Let them fight.
Are you serious?
Yeah. He said that.
See you.
See you, Bob.
You'll probably have them the rest of your life.
What was that?
What the fuck is Dignan doing with that cop? He loves them.
There's a million places to hide around here.
Oh, yeah. They'll never catch the guy.
I hope not.
Phil probably provoked him. Where's he going?
Where you going?
Move.
Why don't you just tell them the truth. Those belong to my neighbor Phil.
I don't know. I personally don't need that shit in my life right now.
Nobody does.
Will you guys shut up? God. It's like having two little kids in the car.
OK, Dad.
You think he got my license plates?
He looked too shakenup.
How long are they going to hold him?
I don't know. I don't know anything. Except Phil says they got him. And he's in jail.
Anthony, I 
And if Future Man doesn't get let out of jail in 48 hours, then we go back. All right?
What?
Is that OK?
Bob, where you going?
I'm not playing any more golf.
Why not?
Cause I'm not getting any better. It's a waste of time.
You've only been playing for two weeks, Bob. It takes a long time to learn this game.
You think I'm improving?
Yes. You just got to stick with it.
You don't have to talk about it if you don't want to.
No, I don't mind.
I know it must of been a bad experience. But it doesn't sound like it was your fault.
Well, I didn't mean to electrocute him. But the whole operation was my idea.
It took six months of research. I did all the wiring myself. Switched AC to DC. Doubled the voltage. Shorted out the generator. The whole school was shut down.
That's pretty complicated for a senior prank.
I don't like that word prank, Bob. I was trying to do something more than a prank.
At first they were going to charge me with manslaughter. That's partly why I was in custody so long. Sixty days.
Sixty days?
Yeah. One minute you're studying Great Expectations and the next minute you're drawing the Holy Mary for some kid who tried to stab his girlfriend.
Why were you drawing the Holy Mary?
Prison tatoos. I got to be pretty good. It's not like drawing on paper.
I thought he didn't have to pay anything because of the technicality.
Yeah, but he still has the aggravation. Three days sitting in a cell.
Were you adopted, Bob?
Why do you say that?
Well, because you guys don't look alike.
No. I wasn't adopted.
Was Future Man adopted?
Jesus Christ! No.
Let's not even talk about it.
It was stupid.
Yeah. Let's keep it 
Cause you would of let my brother rot in jail.
Give him a second.
Hopscotch. The code name is hopscotch.
You OK, Bob?
No, I'm having a heart attack. Of course, I'm OK. What's that supposed to mean?
Nothing. I was just asking.
No, I know. I'm just saying. I feel fine. You want a piece of cake?
Sure.
What are you doing?
My walkie talkie's busted. I can't tell what's going on.
Let me see it. Did you drop it?
No.
Jesus, Bob.
I didn't do anything.
Yeah.
Who's got the car keys?
We think Mr. Henry maybe 
His health isn't very good, you know. They take that into account.
It's in the driveway.
Temporarily.
This is my business manager, Rowboat.
Nice to meet you.
That's a sharp jacket.
Thanks.
It's hard to get much spin with this kind of paddle.
It's called a racquet, Anthony, and you're holding it wrong. That's ghetto play. Hold it like this.
You know, your form is for shit, but you've got a hell of a talent.
Thanks.
Every once in a while some cat comes to me. He wants to know how I made it. How did I become a success? The first thing I tell them is: follow your instincts. Let your instincts guide you. The second thing I tell them is, for Christ's sake: you got to know your grammar.
Grammar.
You mean like techniques?
Technique. That's right. Seventy five percent of your job is crowd control. Seventyfive percent. Do you believe that?
I'd like to live in that place. Hinckley Cold Storage.
Yeah. Convert it into lofts. OK. Pop quiz. What's the single most important aspect of your job?
You mean a safecracker?
Yeah. And I'll tell you who we're going to want: Kumar Banijamali.
Look at that woman. She's what? Fifty? Fiftyfive? But she hasn't let herself go. I appreciate an older woman who has a commitment to her body.
So do I.
Tell me something. What the hell kind of name is Dignan?
I'm not really sure. I think it's Irish. Or maybe 
I guess what I'm trying to say is what the hell kind of person is this Dignan?
What do you mean what kind of person? He's a good person.
Sure, sure. He's a great person, and I'd call bullshit on anybody who said differently. But I wonder if the kid has the goods up here.
I don't think you're giving him enough credit. I know sometimes he doesn't think an idea through. He gets too excited. But 
As far as I can tell he hasn't thought his life through. He'd be fine cutting my grass or parking my car. But business? You I can work with. You I could groom. Dignan's not going to make it.
And you're wrong if you think, I'd turn my back on a friend.
Hold it.
Congratulations. You passed the test.
What do you mean?
The Abe Henry doublecross test. You just made a perfect score.
That was a test?
Take a deep breath.
How does that feel?
It feels good.
Did Dignan take the test?
Yes, he did.
How'd he do?
Well, he agreed 100% that Bob should be dropped. And he also agreed you were a liability. But he felt his talent would make up for your weaknesses.
That sounds like Dignan.
I'll tell you, Anthony. Times like this I get philosophical. What does it mean? What's it all about? Are you afraid to die?
Me?
No, that door over there.
I don't want to die.
Are you afraid?
Yeah. I mean, I don't think about it all the time. But once in awhile I kind of go, Woah. Man.
Exactly. Woah.
Death.
The fear of death, The pain of consciousness. Did you mix this martini?
No. Bob did.
Bob. Bob. That's a palindrome. I love palindromes.
Are you afraid to die, Mr. Henry?
Anthony, I'm petrified.
This is good.
I want to ask a favor, boys. One day, when I'm long gone and all but forgotten, make one last toast to Abe Henry. And remember me as a friend.
But you're thieves. It's what you are.
Yeah.
It's an esoteric journey.
We're renegades from despair.
Can I ask you something, Mr. Henry?
Absolutely.
Why'd you want to help us?
Because I was like you once. And there was no one there to help me.
What color hair does he have?
Black hair. Paul Michael Glaser.
Making Hutch David Soul?
Right. The blond guy.
OK. That's wrong.
Dignan, it's 
Plus where's Huggie Bear?
He's not there. Huggie Bear isn't in every single episode.
I think you might of dreamed this one, Anthony.
No. It's a real episode. The killer is leading him across the city by calling different pay phones.
Why?
As part of his plan. I don't know why.
See, that's what I'm saying. It has the logic of a dream.
The point is the killer always goes, May I speak to Starsky? He says his name.
What does Starsky say?
He says. This is he.
This is he?
No. This is he.
Did you see what I meant about the window?
Kind of. Except we've already got the keys.
That's true. But what if they change the locks?
Would they do that?
Who knows? That's why I filed it down.
Now that window can never be locked. It's impossible.
See, your mind is very good with the more mechanical details. Whereas my strength would be 
She's really kind of hot.
She's an attractive older woman.
It's got a V8, Dignan.
What do you think the cops have?
Anthony, we'll get two hundred for the coin collection alone. That's less than what it's appraised at.
But Dignan, do you really know that much about rare coins?
I know about money, Anthony. I know the value of money. Plus the earrings are worth three times that.
The list, Dignan. I know you remember the list because you signed it. "Things Dignan was not supposed to touch."
Every valuable item in the house was on that list.
That doesn't make any difference. I bought those earrings for my mother on her birthday. They have a very special value for her.
Yeah, but I can't be sorting through that shit in the middle of a burglary. There's just not time for it.
Then you shouldn't of gone in there, Dignan. Maybe we should of robbed your house. Did you ever think of that?
Where are you going?
I don't appreciate you ridiculing me.
How was I ridiculing you?
You're making fun of my family. You know there's nothing to steal from my mom and Craig. You know exactly what you're saying.
That's not what I meant, Dignan.
Did you see that?
Yeah, I saw it.
I'm lookout.
Dignan, it's got an alarm.
I don't think so. Just reach on in.
That sets it off.
No, just do it real quick. I'll meet you down there.
It had an alarm.
Yeah, I heard that.
Five, seven, eight dollars.
Holy shit. What'd I tell you?
Eight dollars.
That's not bad.
But he didn't say anything.
Hang on a second.
Is it back in?
Yeah.
Loop around real fast.
Just turn right here.
OK. Escape route. The most important thing you can have is an escape route. Just in case somebody's tailing us. Or even chasing us, as the case may be 
You think we're going to be chased?
That's a good question. No. I don't. I'm just being hypocritical here. However, I will say 
Now. One thing we need to discuss is timing. Timing is absolutely crucial. What are you doing? Anthony!
Nothing. Go ahead.
Anthony, give me the fucking gun!
No, Dignan. It's not your gun. It's all of ours.
Dignan, calm down.
You're out! I'm not working with either one of you!
Dignan! Stop!
Calm down. Take a deep breath.
You're right. You're right.
Where's the manager?
Where's the other stocker?
There's another stocker, right?
We know there's another stocker.
Is that the manager?
Unlock that door. Check the aisles.
Holy shit.
We got it. We got it.
What about what that guy said?
Oh, shit. That was scary. In the middle of the robbery. The manager looks at me. Right in the eye. And goes, I'm going to remember you.
I swear to God. In a very quiet voice.
Like he meant it.
Yeah.
Like he would find Dignan. One day.
Like I'm going to hunt you down and kill you.
What's wrong with him?
What do you think?
Anthony, he sat in the car and watched a 411 in progress. He got what he deserved.
He was the driver, Dignan. He did what he's supposed to do.
I didn't realize you were so sensitive to Bob's feelings. Considering I did the plans, you're actually lucky you got 
Don't even say it, man.
Can I get that credit card from you?
I don't like to use that credit card, Dignan.
Why not?
Because my mom gets the bill.
She's not going to notice, Anthony.
I don't want to use it.
Well, then cut it in half.
I keep it for emergencies.
Anthony, we're on the run. This is an emergency. It's only fair that...
See if mine are in there.
Dignan, those aren't running shoes.
Yes, they are.
Look at the treads on those.
What about them?
They obviously weren't designed for racing.
Well, those treads stink. You'd blow a knee out racing on those.
Really. OK, Dad. But seriously, Anthony. These are fast shoes.
You've never had a pair of fast shoes in your life, Dignan. In fifth grade Dignan used to wear cowboy boots for P.E.
That's real cool, Anthony. Yeah, I wore boots. My parents wouldn't buy me any $200 running shoes like yours. I wasn't spoiled.
Don't call me spoiled, Dignan.
You were spoiled rotten.
I'll just say it.
I'll say it.
OK. Go ahead.
On your marks... Get set go.
You owe me fifty bucks.
Bob?
Look, man. She didn't know anything about shirts.
No, I'm not saying her. I'm just saying, I don't know.
It's a great shirt. Don't worry about it.
Armored trucks are very difficult to steal, Anthony.
I know. But once you get inside you're home free.
Right. Get back to me on that one. Once your plan is worth a shit.
It's not a plan. It's just 
Actually. If you knew the exact route, you could plant explosives under a manhole cover and blow it up as it went over.
Yeah, but you wouldn't have the truck if you blew it up.
True.
Dignan, I can't get my hair cut. That's just not possible, all right?
Then you're going to have to dye it, Anthony. We've got to hide our identities. Especially after Bob crashed the car.
No, Dignan. I'm sorry. I can't do that.
Even if it's the difference between some trooper recognizing us and throwing us in prison or not?
I thought you guys went to get your hair cut.
No. We didn't.
This is Inez. Carmen. Anita.
Hi.
Inez, this is 
Jerry. And this is my associate Cornelius.
May I have a word with you, please?
Sure.
What the fuck is going on here?
What. What's the matter?
Anthony, we're on the run from the law here. Did you tell these people your real name?
No. I didn't. Dignan, they don't speak English.
They don't?
No. Not really. Inez speaks a little.
Which one was that?
On the left.
She's from Cuba.
No kidding.
He needs to hire an attorney.
No, no. Look. OK. Let's stay here until we find out what's going on.
Now that makes sense. We'll hang out for a couple of days. Get a little R&R. Make sure Future Man's OK and then get back on the road.
As long as he gets out OK.
Obviously. That's a given.
Bob?
See, now we've got a plan.
Don't worry about it, Bob.
See, one day we were playing hot box over at my next door neighbor Mr. Langston's house and Anthony fell in the pool and got knocked unconscious. I had to dive in and save him.
This was in fourth grade.
Mr. Langston performed cardiopulmonary recitation. CPR. I've never said this before, but frankly I thought Anthony was dead. The veins in his face were all sticking out. His skin was blue. He truly did look dead.
After that my parents never let me go to Dignan's again.
They blamed my family for everything. They always said Mr. Langston saved Anthony's life.
But if it wasn't for Dignan I probably would of died.
Yes... It's true.
He's gone. He stole the car.
Where was it parked?
Right here.
That coward. Son of a bitch.
Maybe he just went to the store.
He took his stuff. He's gone. I should of seen this. I should of expected it. Bob doesn't have any character.
He went back for his brother.
We said 48 hours.
That's a long time to be in jail.
When'd he tell you?
This morning.
Where was I?
You were asleep.
He told you and you let him do it.
He told me because he wanted to know if I wanted to go.
If you wanted to go? What were you going to do? Just leave me here by myself?
Well, I didn't do it, did I?
So when you were saying Bob's at the store and acting real surprised, that was just an act. You were just 
Bob went to help his brother. I understand that and I can't help it if you don't.
I understand that if I had a few more friends like you and Bob I'd be dead.
If you say so.
If you'd gone with Bob you'd probably be in Weatherford by now. Of course I'd be here frantically worrying thinking you must of got kidnapped.
I didn't realize you had such an incredible ability to feel sorry for yourself, Dignan.
Well, the world is a little bit colder today.
We're going over to this bar if you feel like going.
No. I'm going to swim. I'll see you later.
Why don't you come with us.
OK.
I can't believe he just jumped you.
Can you hand me those french fries.
I wish I'd been there.
Would of been nice.
Man. I'm sorry. We just went for a walk 
I don't really feel like talking about it. The only thing I feel like is getting the fuck out of this place.
We need a car.
I have an idea for that.
What?
Inez has a master key to all these rooms, doesn't she? Doesn't she?
I don't think we can do that.
I know we can. It's real simple. We go into a room, grab some car keys and 
What I'm saying is she wouldn't go for that.
She doesn't need to know.
I don't know, Dignan. I just 
Look. I'm ready to get the fuck out of here. It's real torture for me to be here. Getting the shit kicked out of me by Mexicans.
Shh.
No one to back me up. Now I have a good idea. So unless you come up with something better 
Dignan. I can't do that. All right? I just can't.
I don't think we need any keys, Dignan. I think I can hotwire a car for us.
You don't know how to hotwire.
Yes, I do. Bob taught me.
Bob taught you how to get electrocuted.
No, I'm serious. He made me a diagram.
I think we better go home.
Don't panic, Anthony.
I'm not. But there's 
You can't just run home every time things get tough. First of all, we've got enough dough to 
Our money situation is not good.
You're so spoiled. What is "not good" to you? Only a few hundred 
We've got sixteen dollars.
That's not correct.
Sixteen dollars.
I know.
Where's the rest?
I had to give some to Inez.
How much?
$383.
You gave $383 to the goddamn housekeeper! What the fuck is your problem?
She needed it.
A $500 tip! For the housekeeper!
Her name's Inez. Stop calling her the housekeeper.
That's what she is!
I know that. But 
You're in love with the fucking housekeeper!
Shut up!
What are you going to do, get married? Have a bunch of little idiot janitor brats! And go around scrubbing the 
When'd you get back?
Ah. Couple days ago.
Who's in the car?
That's Applejack. You want to meet him?
Sure.
Applejack would of got him anyway. This was just the quicker way.
You really hit a guy with a bottle?
I want you to look at this.
What is it?
It's big, Anthony. Real big. It's called Hinckley Cold Storage.
What's Hinckley Cold Storage?
Mr. Henry has an inside source. We call him Steve. That's where we get our information.
Who's Mr. Henry?
You'll meet him this afternoon. He's helping us set it up.
What exactly is this place? Freezers?
Right. Freezers. Imported foods.
What time did he say to be here?
Right now.
You could give somebody a concussion.
Let me feel that.
What do you think?
He seems pretty good.
Dignan. Take it easy.
Bob!
He doesn't want to fight.
Get out of the way.
No, Dignan. This isn't 
No fighting. It wasn't Bob's fault.
Easy, Dignan. It's OK.
Shit, Dignan.
What the fuck are we doing out here?
I don't know, Dignan. You went crazy.
I'm sorry, Bob.
OK. Man in blue jeans just left by southwest door. He is entering a white van. What time is it?
Eleven fifteen.
OK. Mark that down.
I did.
God. Isn't this great? Working on the job. Got a wheel man. Got a safecracker. Good friends with Mr. Henry.
Yeah. It's pretty good.
It's like we've finally arrived.
Next week we'll be drinking pia coladas.
Hopefully this trip'll go a little smoother than the last one.
Or I might end up with a broken nose.
Did that hurt?
I'll try not to hold you back tomorrow.
I don't think you will.
I don't want to be too much of a liability.
Look, you're going to do fine. It's OK to be scared.
I don't think I ever said this to you. But it meant a lot to me the way you were after that Swifty stuff happened.
He was a nice guy.
He was all right.
Do you like Inez?
As a person?
Yeah. As a girl.
Yes. I do.
So do I.
Bird Dog to Scarecrow. Bird Dog to Scarecrow.
Go ahead, Bird Dog.
You're all clear.
Roger.
We all set?
Hang on a second.
Uhhuh?
Take your second position.
OK. Roger.
I'm in position, Scarecrow.
Any activity?
Not at all. The place is totally deserted.
Good. It's supposed to be.
I've got a great view up here. I can see all the 
Stand by, Bird Dog.
I don't know.
Check the fucking elevator. It's moving.
What's happening? What's going on?
It was Bob. His walkie talkie's busted.
Who did that? What the fuck is that?
It's going back down.
Applejack! What's happening?
Freeze!
Nobody move!
Get against the wall!
Help me move him.
Careful. Check his pulse.
Who tripped the alarm?
It's the fire alarm. Somebody pulled the fire alarm.
Where's Kumar?
I don't know.
Jesus Christ, Anthony. Did you lose him?
What are you doing?
Let's go. Come on.
Wait for Kumar.
Come on, Kumar.
You're kidding.
Applejack's stuck in the elevator?
Come on.
I'll see you there.
What?
I'll see you there.
What are you talking about?
I'll get him.
There's not enough time.
Yes, there is. Let's get organized.
Dignan, it's too late.
I don't think so.
Like amnesia.
Can't remember shit. CRS.
So is Mr. Henry going to come by and see me or anything?
I don't think so. I mean. Actually, he robbed Bob's house.
He did?
Yeah.
You got to be kidding me.
I'm not kidding.
What'd he get?
Pretty much everything.
The grandfather clock?
You think Applejack knew?
We haven't heard from Applejack since he got out of the hospital. His case got dismissed.
Why?
We're not sure.
Mr. Henry never gave you a test, did he?
What do you mean?
Nothing.
You're living on a sailboat?
It belongs to Bob's uncle.
How big is it?
Oh, I'd say about 
Where?
Behind Bob's house.
Does it float?
We're not sure yet. It's going to need some repairs.
So how is it in there?
What can I say? It's jail. You don't sleep when you want to. You don't eat when you want to.
What's he in for?
He stole a tractor.
I think I may have found a way out of here.
You're kidding.
No. I'm not.
How?
Shhh. Wait for my instructions.
Dignan, I 
When we go through the next gate you'll have 30 seconds to take out the tower guard.
What?
Have the car running at the north west checkpoint. Bob and I'll 
Dignan, I 
Scale the barricade and tunnel through no man's land. And Bob. Remember:
Scale the 
Shield me from the bullets. They won't shoot civilians. Ready?
Well, it's the funny man. Give it here, package boy.
Joey Bevo said it was important. Said I had to give it to him myself.
Gimme the fuckin' thing. Now sit the fuck down!
I'm Rocco. I'm the funny man. Heee Hee. I'm so fuckin' funny. Hee Hee.
Fuck you Vincenzo.
Tell me a joke funny man. Hee Hee.
I caught your show down at the velvet room at the Holiday Inn, loved it when you busted into Viva Las Vegas.
Poppa Joe, you want me to go now?
Yeah. Thanks, Rocco. See ya.
Hey, Rocco, wait. Come back here.
Yeah boss?
I always see you talking to the boys and making them laugh. They always come around telling me what a crack up you are. What is it they call you?
The... The funny man.
The funny man. Well, I got a new job for you, just for now. Roc, I'm having a real shitty day. I'm depressed. Tell me a funny story or a joke.
Uh. Okay... um... you hear the one about the, no fuck that one... uh... oh! oh! Well... shit. Okay, there's a white guy. He's walkin' along the beach and he finds a, a pot, y'know and ah, he rubs it and this genie pops out. But this genie, he's a ni... he's a black guy.
He's a nigger.
Yeah. And uh, he's pissed off. He says, "Why you crackers always gotta find my mother fuckin' pot? And he tells him he's gonna grant all his three wishes but he's gonna give all the black guys...
Continue the joke.
He says, "What's your third wish?" And the guys says, "II want you to beat me half to death."
You gonna do what I say, got it?
Yes.
I'm sorry you're gonna hafta see this. Don't look at me!
I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I didn't see.
Shut up! Shut the fuck up!
Don't do this my son.
Open it!
Have you no fear of God?
That's who I'm doing this for, now open the fuckin' thing.
Father, I'll do you right here.
God have mercy on my soul.
Do your thing Father. Don't fuck this up.
What do you want me to say?
Just be natural, goddamit.
How long since your last confession, my son?
I wouldn't have, uh, killed you, Father. Dominus Ominus. Remember, you're bound. You can't talk about this... to anyone.
Just go!
Hello? You there?
YYes my son.
Why have you come to a church for council if you're not religious?
Why have I come to a church? I never have before. I guess I just... felt I should.
What is it my son?
It's ethics. I put evil men behind bars, but the law has miles of red tape and loopholes for these... cocksuckers to slip through. I've found out there are these two young men who fix the situation with an iron fist. As if they have God's permission. But what they do is wrong and I should arrest them... technically.
God's permission? God doesn't...
But in this day and age I believe what they do is... necessary. I feel it is... correct.
You believe?
Yes.
You feel?
Yes.
You feel? A soul is what gives you feelings. Happiness, guilt, right or wrong. It is a conduit through which the Lord speaks to us. You felt that your answers would be here in the house of God today. You feel these men are necessary. The Lord has spoken to you twice this day.
Has he now?
You have entered the house of the Lord of your own free will speaking of beliefs and feelings. Is it so much to believe that God has brought you here?
I guess not.
It is easy to be sarcastic about religion. It is harder to take small hints from God, your feelings and listen to them... to take a stand.
You're right.
Those who do not act are in a constant state of ethical indecision.
I want to stand for what I believe in, father.
Then you must find out what your beliefs are.
I believe these young men are right.
You know them personally?
Yes.
Do you think they would harm an innocent man, for any reason?
No. They would never do that.
The laws of God are higher than the laws of man.
Yes! Yes! I was thinking that, too. No. I was feeling it. All I needed was to hear you say it! Amen! I'll help them.
Forgive me father.
Thank you, Father, thank you. Whatever. Goodbye, amen.
Right now.
Don't kill me. Oh shit, please no. I'm Rocco. I'm the funny man!... the funny man... the funny.
This is some heavy shit. This is like Lone Rangerheavy man. Fuck it! There's so much shit that pisses me off. You guys should recruit 'cause I am sick and fuckin' tired of walkin' down the street waitin' for one of these assholes to get me, y'know?
Hallelujah, Jaffar.
So you're not just talkin' mob guys. You're talkin' anyone, right? Even like pimps and drug dealers and all that shit?
Well fuck, you guys could do this every day.
We're like 7Eleven. We ain't always doing business, but we're always open.
You fuckin' guys. You ruined me. I'm fuckin' done. Permanent package boy.
Who says that? You could take credit on it.
What are you serious?
Yeah, fuck it. If you think about it, it's all you can do really. You can't tell him it was us. Go in braggin' and shit.
Hey. You don't know that shit for sure.
Oh, Jesus. You're such a fuckin' retard!
Fuck you!
Use your brain for once. Is it so unbelievable they don't care about you? You are fuckin' dead, you go in there today. Dead!
Oh yeah. You two fuckin' Micks know what's going on, huh? Fuck you!
Fuck it! What kind of flowers ya want at your funeral? Ya dumb Wop. This is the last time I'll see you. Byebye ya stupid son of a bitch.
I'll be back at 9:00.
Hello?
Hey Murph.
Roc. You okay?
Yeah. Anybody call for me?
No. You sure you're okay?
I'm fuckin' fine. Catch you on the flip side.
Hello?
Hey, Murph.
Roc. You okay?
Yeah. Anybody call for me?
No. You sure you're okay?
I'm fuckin' fine. Catch you on the flip side.
Hurry the fuck up!
This is some crazy shit, man!
Those cocksuckers sold me out!
Those rat fucks! All of them were all laughing at me man!
You sure you killed them?
Liberating isn't it?
Y'know it is, a bit.
Vincenzo, that fat motherfucker, Yakavetta's right hand. He's the one who set me up. Then he went around shooting his mouth off, telling everyone I was as good as dead. He goes in there every Wednesday night around 10:00, he jerks off in the same booth to the same titty dancer. Never misses.
So?
So let's kill the motherfucker. I mean, what are you guys... like that's your new thing right?
Well, truth be known, those first ones just kinda fell into our laps.
Well, what'ya do?
You look like Mush Mouth from Fat Albert.
Fine! Fuck it! When we're done she can I.D. me. I don't care. Just tryin' to be professional, but no...
Worst day of my life, man.
Well, I'm sold.
Well he sure as fuck knew you!
Fuck you both! Ya ask me, he was aiming at you!
Shit!... Shit! He ain't here.
What the fuck do you mean?
I mean he ain't here.
You bet your ass he will.
Well, I'd say that makes him a lia fuckinbility.
Hey! We gotta talk about this early morning church shit.
We have to go now. We're on the lamb.
We'll keep going, Roc.
You'll make it outta here. You can't ever stop, not ever.
What the...?
I got it ta my head now. I got it ta my head now.
Oh my god!
I...
Oh, she's quite proud of herself.
Okay, seriously, both you listen ta me now.
It's only 11:00 here boys so I got lot's more drinkin' ta do with your worthless relatives down at the Anvil.
Just called ta torture us did ya?
But he's been havin' himself a nip or two as well... Been up the waitress' skirt all night, poor girl.
Well you tell him ta take it easy with that. He's gotta learn ta respect women the way Connor does.
Promise me boys.
We promise.
That's one big fuckin' shoe!... and think about it. Of all the ways to kill a guy, crushin' him to death. That's very particular. You don't get many of those. I dunno. I feel something big here. I wouldn't be surprised if we see more of these turning up.
Brilliant. So now we got a Huge guy theory and Serial crusher theory. Top fucking notch. What's your name?
Detective Greenly. Who the fuck are you?
Who the...
Twist of lemon!
Chief, what the fuck is this?
Sweetnlow!
He's struck again, hasn't he, Greenly?
Why do you always disrespect me like that?
Respect is earned, Greenly, never given. Guys like you should have to follow me around squabbling for the scraps from my table.
How many bodies, Greenly?
Eight.
While Greenly's getting coffee, anybody else want anything?
Shit! Shit!
Uh. Shit, I, uh...
It tells us that he was the last to die. All these men Were carrying. They came in, dropped all in seconds and then took their time with fag man. Didn't they, Duffy?! They sure as fuck did!
After talking to the dancer we know that their mark was the guy in the middle booth. After she watches them whack him, she passes out. Why the two extra victims?
Witness?
No way they could have seen it.
They weren't related. The guy used a 38. No pennies. Totally amateur.
Who were the victims?
A couple of peons for the mob and...
Oh that's just BEAUTIFUL! All the scumbags in the quiet city of Boston start dropping dead and you think it's unrelated?! Greenly, the day I want the Boston Police doing my thinking for me, I will have a fucking tag on my toe! Now, get me a squad car and get me over there. I want the crime scene photos and any witness statements. NOW!
What if it was just one guy with six guns?
Why don't you let me do the thinking, huh, genius?
So what are you thinkin' here?
Really want to know?
So Duffy, got any theories to go with that... tie.
These guys were pros. I think they were coming for one target, the fag man, he was the...
The what man?
The fat man.
Well, Freud was right. So you think they came for the fag man, huh? And what do you base this upon?
He was the only one done right. Two in the back of the head.
And the pennies?
New hitman wants to leave his mark
That's a possibility. Y'know you Boston cops are perking up. That's two sound theories in one day, neither of which deal with abnormally sized men. Another possibility is that they were placed there with religious intent.
Yeah. Some cultures still put pennies in the eyes of the dead, or silver.
The Greeks. The Italians.
The Sicilians.
The two bullets went in here, through the top of the skull, crisscrossed and exited through the eyeballs. This one clue tells us three distinct facts. Number one... Duffy.
They shot him at a downward angle. They put him on his knees.
Excellent! Number two. Greenly.
Now stay with me, boys. What did they do to make two such identical wounds? Did one guy put him on his knees, pop a cap in, sit him back up and shoot him again the same way? No. Two men of similar height dropped this guy down, each put some iron to his head and boom! That's all she fuckin' wrote!
What about one guy with two guns?
Possible, but unlikely. The angles are too extreme. A guy holding two guns to the back of your head is gonna shoot straight ahead. He wouldn't cock out his elbows, makes no sense. Besides, you telling me one guy came in here and killed eight men with eight extremely well aimed shots in just a few seconds? No way. Had to be at least two.
Now, what is this going to look like to those who do not know what I just told you?
It's gonna look like the bad guys are killing each other.
And is there an American, shit is there a man seated among us that hasn't thought about it many times, let's just put them all on an island, give them guns and let them kill each other. This is our wet dream come true. You can expect federal and local law enforcement to go only deep enough to satisfy the law, then bury it from here on out.
Allow me to enlighten you gentlemen to the protocol of the porno industry, as I'm sure you've never been in one of these places before. A man goes into the booth, puts the money in the slot. The dancer gets it on the other side. She hits the button, door goes up, now there is only glass between you and it's little fireman time.
No way they could have seen it?
Those doors were down... which means this. They looked down in through the peep hole, saw these guys and opened the doors from the inside. Pop, pop, pop, right through the glass. Why?
Jesus. I just can't think anymore. That scene over at the coffee shop today tapped me out.
What?
A guy went nuts over off of Commonwealth today. Shot three guys to death in a coffee shop in broad daylight. Fled the scene. Don't have much on him.
Why was I not informed of this?
These two fucking scenes are related. Too many coincidences. Same day? Five hours apart? Dead mobsters on both scenes. Now, why did he kill the bartender?
Crime of passion. He just went nuts. He would have shot everyone in here. He just ran out of bullets.
Duffy. This look like a fucking post office to you? This guy came in here with intent. Maybe he didn't know exactly what he was gonna do but he had a pretty good idea. The bartender wasn't a fucking accident.
Well, we didn't get any help on that. A lot of people saw it. Nobody's talking.
Fucking figures. Look, are you guys seeing the pattern here? We got big questions at both of these crime scenes, with no answers. WHY did they kill the guys in the other two booths? WHY did he do the bartender? It would seem unnecessary, even stupid. God, I hate cold crime scenes! I'm fucking leaving now. And do me a favor, tell me when the next guy dies, cause these guys are not done yet.
No! Fuck you! You start getting excited! We gotta fucking go!
Rocco!
What?
Where's my cat?
I killed your fuckin' cat, you druggie bitch!
You... oh god, why?
I felt it would bring closure to our relationship!
You killed my... my...
Your what?! Your fuckin' what?!
My, my...
Your what, bitch? I'll shoot myself in the head, you can tell me that cats name! Go ahead... Your what? Your precious little...
Pee...Per...Man.
Peeperman? WRONG? What color was it?!!!
It was... It was...
Male or female, bitch?!!
Holy shit. You're the first one that's ever got that.
Yeah, well... I'm an expert in name ology.
And number three, Dolly.
Uh... two shooters!
Fanfuckintastic!
So, what do we do now?
That depends. You either do your job or get ethical.
She was in here when it went down.
Can she I.D. them?
They were wearing masks.
Of course they were. How many?
Three.
Only two did the shooting. So what are you thinking, Russian retaliation?
Nah, too quick half their infrastructure got taken out at the Copley plaza. Besides, if you're a hitter, you're either working for the Russians or the Italians. There's no riding the fence. Our little theory from last night just got blown to shit. Something... new is going on here.
Maybe the three of them had something in common.
No. This guy is big time. These two are streetwalking scum.
And it's the same story over here. Why the crossover? Theories.
That's just fucking weird. I have no idea.
The shooter knew these guys, huh?
How do you figure?
Friends, Gentlemen. They were friends.
I prefer to be called Rozengurtle by men.
Okay then... let's get ya started.
Okay, just cut off as much fat as you can as it goes by and the rule of thumb here is...
Rule of thumb?
Yeah?
Do you know where that term comes from? In the early 1900's it was legal for men to beat their wives as long as they used a stick no wider than their thumb.
I knew you two pricks would give me problems. Give me shit cause I'm a woman. I'm not gonna take your male dominance bullshit!
Oh, come on now Rozengurtle. I was just tryin' ta get a rise outta ya.
Baumgartner sound Irish to you, fuck face?
Now look Rozengurtle, we're sorry. Just relax.
I do believe the Monsignor finally got a point.
Aye.
Hey Murphy?
Aye.
How many feminists does it take to screw in a light bulb?
How many?
Two. One ta screw it in and one ta suck my cock.
No fuckin' hot water man. That...
Shut it. It's Ma.
Aaaww, shit!... evil woman!
Lord have mercy. That was a good one ma.
Oh, Jesus.
I gave him his first lesson in sensitivity toward the fairer sex just today.
Don't even do it, ya bastard.
He got beat up by a girl.
If that was a girl I want ta see some papers. She had ta be just preoperative for Christ sakes.
All right, love ya ma. Listen, before ya go just give us the goods, eh?
Yeah. It's been twentyseven years.
"What do we tell him about the guns and money?"
"We just got up and left. Bum musta rolled them before the police got there."
Okay. We're ready.
A ppenny saved is worth two in the bush.
Don't ccross the road if ya can't get out of the kitchen.
Listen fellas, Y'know he's got 'til this week's end. Ya don't have ta be hard asses, do ya?
Yeah, it's St. Patty's day. Everyone's Irish tonight. Now, why don't ya pull up a stool and have a drink with us?
"Now, that wasn't too polite, was it?"
"I'm afraid we can't let that one go, Ivan."
How do you think he figured all this out without talking to us?
Italian.
I have no idea. Maybe someone saw and talked.
German. Not in our neighborhood, man. A hundred percent Irish. No one talks to cops. Period.
Spanish. Then I guess he's just real... real good.
Absolutely not.
No pictures, either.
Destroy all that which is evil...
...so that which is good may flourish
Know what we need, man?... some rope.
For what?
Charlie Bronson's always got rope.
What?
Yeah, these guys always got a lot of rope strapped around em in the movies and they always end up using it.
Oh, you've lost it, haven't ya?
I'm serious.
Me too. That's stupid. Name one thing we're gonna need it for.
I don't know they just always need it.
What is all this "they" shit? This ain't a movie.
Is that right, Rambo?
All right, get the stupid fuckin' rope.
Nervous?
A bit.
Me, too.
See. I told you there'd be a shaft.
Just like on TV.
Where the fuck are you going?
We'll find it. Just calm down.
No, fuck you. This rope is bullshit. I'm sweatin' my ass off draggin' this stupid thing around. Must weigh 30 pounds.
We're doing some serious shit here. Now, get a hold of yourself, asshole.
Asshole!? I'm not the ropetotin' Charlie Bronson wannabe that's getting' us lost!
Sh, sh! Fuck you!
That was way easier than I thought.
Aye.
On TV ya always get that asshole that jumps behind the couch.
Yeah, and ya gotta shoot at him for ten minutes.
Oh, we're good man.
Yes, we are.
Nine bodies.
Oh, you're good. What were you gonna do? Laugh the last three to death, funny man?
Mafiosos getting caught with 20 kilos and walkin' on bail the same day.
Little girls catchin' stray bullets in their heads, playin' hopscotch in their front yards. And everyone thinks the same thing... Someone should just go kill those motherfuckers.
Kill em all. Admit it, even you've thought about it.
Where are you goin'? Did you tell him?
Yes.
Then what the fuck?
Who did you kill?
Holy shit. Who? How many?
So what do you think?
I'm strangely comfortable with it.
We've teamed up with a sex offender.
So, when are you getting a plastic fuck doll?
Give the guy a shot.
Rocco, this is the real deal. We must kill without hesitation, without guilt or remorse. Evil man, dead man.
There he goes. Okay, gentlemen. Are we ready to bring this man into the light? Are we ready to truly do the work of the Lord?
Afuckin'men!
That's the guy that got us off the hook with the "Checkov" thing.
And he is one smart man.
He isn't to be touched.
He's a good man.
Now, you will receive us.
We do not ask for your poor or your hungry.
We do not want your tired and sick.
It is your corrupt we claim.
It is your evil, who will be sought by us.
With every breath we shall hunt them down.
Each day we will spill their blood till it rains down from the skies.
Do not kill, do not rape, do not steal. These are principles which every man of every faith can embrace.
These are not polite suggestions. They are codes of behavior and those that ignore them will pay the dearest cost.
There are varying degrees of evil. We urge you lesser forms of filth Not to push the bounds and cross over into true corruption... into our domain.
For if you do, there will come the day when you look behind you and see we three. And on that day you will reap it.
And we will send you to whatever God you wish.
We're alive.
An F.B.I. agent came by the bar. He left me his cc, he left me his cc, he left me this.
What are you going to do?
We're going to turn ourselves in. It was self defense.
yyyeah that's what he said.
Hold this shit for us, Doc. We'll be comin back for it when we get out.
Right.
Would someone please come over here and...
Fuck!
me up the...
Ass!
You guys are not under oath, here. I am assuming you knew these two guys from before, huh?
We... met them last night.
They had some pretty interesting bandages. Know anything about that?
So, how is it that you guys are fluent in Russian?
We paid attention in school.
Know any other languages?
Well, we could try the bag over the head thing. Walk you right out the front.
Our mother can see through bags.
Well, the light caught the side of his face for a second. And it looked like he had a gray beard, maybe... late fifties, early sixties.
So you're telling me it was one guy with six guns? Aand he was a senior fucking citizen?
I think it's better if we find this man before he finds us again.
I'll see what I can do. How do I get in touch with you?
We're going to hit Poppa Joe tonight, right in the comfort of his own home. Then we move on to New York. It's getting a bit hot for us here.
Be careful.
I'll call you tonight, afterwards.
Hello.
Connor, is that you?
Mother, is that you?
Is that worthless brother of your there? I want you both ta hear this.
Ma, what's wrong?
It's all your fault. Both you little bastards. I was a fool to believe you would bring me any peace. The day your Da left us when you were almost too young to remember, he said the two of you would do me right and make me proud, but he was wrong and I got nothin' ta live for.
Mother, what are you sayin'? You're talkin' crazy here.
I finally found your Da's army revolver, Connor.
What the hell are you doin' with Da's gun!?
What?! What are you doin'?
I want ta tell ya one last thing before I pull the trigger.
Pull the trigger?! Have ya lost it woman?! Now just calm down here.
No ma! No!
BLAME...
How's Uncle Sibeal?
Well, you know how it is with him. Always complainin' he's never turnin' a profit on St. Patty's. Whole damn family goes down there with no money, cause we know he can't bear ta charge us.
Well, we tried ta make friends and she gave me a shot ta the nuts.
What... the dirty bitch! I hope ya trounced her a good one!
Well, I didn't but...
Yeah, we promise.
Well, there's my boys. Shit. I gotta go. Looks like I caused a ruckus with that shot. Half the damn neighborhood is comin'.
Still bickerin' over that, huh?
Come on, ma. Out with it. Who came out first?
All right, I suppose you have the right ta know.
Oh, God! Don't kill me! We're on the same side! The boss musta sent you in as back up, huh? Oh, shit, please! I'm Rocco. I'm the funny man. They call me the funny fuckin' man!
Where's your gun?
Chest pocket. Shit!
This is a sixshooter.
Poppa Joe said there was only two. In and out. Boy, you guys sure did a good job. You're good, huh? Cool masks. Where'd you get them?
Let's do him right here.
What did you do?! Fuckin'... what the fuckin' fuck! Who the fuck, fucked this fuckin'? fuck. How did you two fuckin', fucks?......... FUCK!!!
Certainly illustrates the diversity of the word.
What the fuck are you doing here? What, huh!? WHAT? WHAT? WHAT? ANSWERS! I WANT FUCKIN' ANSWERS!
Get a hold of yourself, man.
Anybody you think is evil?
Yes.
Don't you think that's a little psycho? A little weird?
Weird, huh?... Know what I think is weird? Decent men with loving families go home every day after work. They turn on the news and see rapists, murderers, and child molesters all getting out of prison.
Climb the corporate ladder, boy. Don Rocco.
Fuck it! I'm doing it. I deserve it. I've been working for those fat bastards since I was in high school and look at this place.
Donna's gonna be angry about her cat.
Shit. She's on every drug know to man. She'd have sold that thing for a dime bag. Screw her. But I do kinda feel like an asshole.
You sound real remorseful.
She ain't been around in weeks anyhow.
Listen. Something's been bothering me about last night.
What?
Well... what if your boss knew how many guys were supposed to be there... in that room?
What are you saying?
Think about it man. Nine men, six bullets.
You think they sold me out? No way.
He probably knew you'd end up nailing the fat guy, maybe one or two more, but he had to know you weren't walking out of there. Figure it out. Shooter's dead on the scene. No indepth investigation. It'd slide right off his back. 'Cause as much as I love ya, you're not exactly Don Corleone. What would he be losing? A thirty five year old delivery boy?
No, no. That's just not the way things are done. Besides, how's he know I don't just get in there see there's too many and just serve em their fuckin' food and beat it?
He knows you, man. He knows all you want is to move up. That's all. A smooth hitter woulda gone in there, seen it was a wash and slipped out. But a guy like you? Knowin' this is your only chance? Waitin' eighteen years?
No. No man. That's... that's... you don't know what you're talking about. That's bullshit. I know these guys. I mean, thanks for your concern, but that just ain't the thing of it.
Do me a favor and roll it around for a bit on your way in.
No, look. No rolling. Nothing needs to be rolled.
Pack your shit! We gotta get outta here! We gotta get out!
What happened?
I killed em! Oh, Jesus! I killed em all!!
What did I fuckin' do?... in the middle of the Lakeview.
Lakeview the deli? Oh, shit!
Anybody see ya?
Fuck, man! I may as well have posted flyers. Right out in public, man.
Yeah, well...
Oh, what the fuck? How do you guys decide who you're... I mean, who makes the cut? Is there a raffle or something?
I guess we really don't have a system of deciding who.
MEEE! ME! I'm the guy! I know everyone, their habits, where they hang out, who they talk to. I know where they fuckin' live. We could kill everyone!
What the fuck are you doing?
II'll tip her.
What? What is it?
This place is like a scumbag yard sale.
Oh man. You gotta let me do these guys. I'm such a moron. I gotta make up for the tit thing.
No way. I've been waitin' for this asshole.
Aw, c'mon. I gotta clear my family name here. I've brought shame to the house of Della Rocco.
You guys gotta teach me that prayer, man. That's some good shit.
Forget it. It's a family prayer. My father, his father before him that sort of shit.
C'mon!
Who the fuck was he, Rocco? I know you fuckin' know!
Fuck you! I told you I never saw him before!
Look again for fuck sake!
I know what the fuck he looks like!
Shit.
What? What, that guy?
They got nothing.
This guy is very sharp. If he hasn't figured us out yet, he will.
You little fuck. Let him go. I'll drop you right here.
Okay, just calm down. He could hurt us, brother. He could ruin the whole thing.
Let him go or I will deliver you, right now.
You won't do it Connor, you won't. You love me man.
You guys?
We're here brother.
You gotta keep going.
Yes sir.
Look in the trash around their hands. See if you can find me two bullet casings. 45's, if my eye serves me right. Don't disturb them. Mark them as they lay. Newman, root through this shit. If this was a sink find me some metal parts. Gimme a faucet or a drain cover or something.
Paraffin came up positive. And bullet holes are usually a big clue.
I can't find the second one, sir.
Look under the body.
Got it.
Are these me considered armed and dangerous?
Well, not armed. If they had guns, they'd have used them. But dangerous? Oh yeah.
Look, look! I'm not saying one way or the other. Just be careful and go by the protocol on this one.
Any tips on where these guys may be?
Any word back from the E.R.s?
Ah, Agent Smecker, we have a problem.
What?
The press is everywhere outside. They're going nuts for these guys. What do you want to do?
You're not being charged. It's up to you. Do you want to talk to them?
Lord's name.
Mother Mary, full of grace.
What did you do, Connor?
Well listen, I know how my boys take ta scrappin' when they take ta drinkin'.
Yes mother.
I mean it now. I carried the two of you little bastards around in my belly at the same time you ungrateful pissants. Ya ruined my girlish figure in one fell swoop, and then ya sucked me dry. My tits are saggin' down ta my ankles. I trip over em for Christ sakes, now ya listen ta me, NO FIGHTEN!
Are ya ready?
Aye.
Fuck you.
Hey, Augustus, I need your help, I got a serious problem here. I'm not screwing around.
I bounced you on my knee at family reunions, for Christ sakes. Your dad and me ran the whole east coast syndicate you snotnosed little prick. And when you took the wheel, who was beside you?
Hey, I just...
Don't start with your shit. Don't you talk to me. Oh, hey Uncle Gussy, thanks for years of service. Here's a gold watch and a job sniffing other guys' shit eight hours a day. What am I, a retired bus driver?
I need Il Duce.
The Duke? What did you do?
This kid, this package boy could bring down the whole east coast. If he decides to turn states he could dismantle us... totally. But it looks like for now, he's content with just killing us one by one. And even worse the kid is good at it. I mean I had a prodigy on my hands the whole time and didn't even know it.
Listen kid, I think you better understand who you're dealing with here.
Yeah. I was only twelve or thirteen when you guys used to talk about him, like he was a ghost or something.
Your dad and I used him three times over twenty years, only when everything went totally fucked. Believe me kid, you don't want this guy unless you are 100% sure you need him. He is... a fuckin' monster.
There's ways around that.
Go find one.
What did he bring him in for?
Needed an outsider. The package boy knows everyone. He'd spot our hitters a mile away.
Just for him?
Well he's the one shooting up all his guys, right? He's scared of the kid. Says he's real good, got every available gun in the city up there.
Up where?
Up his house. I don't know what's going on but I know it's gotta have something to do with this kid.
Oh fuck!
Mike's gotta go. Nice to meet you.
Yeah, nice meetin' you.
What are watchin' this junk for?
You can change it if you want to.
I don't know why we have to watch TV.
Mike. We don't have to watch it. Come on.
Sandy? Could I talk to you a minute?
Sure, just a sec. Excuse me.
Come on out a minute, okay?
Okay.
Hey come here, you stole my girl, you bastard. I'm gonna kick your ass, right in front of your stupid house.
Stop it Mike.
You shut up. Nobody's talkin' to you. Hey who's that Jeffrey? Your mother?
Yeah, how did you know?
I just know, that's all. I remember you from Central.
Oh yeah?
You were pretty popular. Didn't you run for some office?
Yeah I did, treasurer. Shouldn't you be studying or something.
Am I bothering you?
No. You're not bothering me. You a senior?
Yes.
How is Central these days?
Terrible boring.
What else is new? Right?
Yeah. What are you doing now?
I'm home from school. My father's in the hospital.
That's too bad.
What do you know about the ear? Anything?
Didn't my father tell you not to talk about it?
Come on, you brought it up. Do you know anything?
I don't really know much but bits and pieces. I hear things. My room is right above my father's office. The ear, there's no corpse in the morgue missing an ear, and it did come off a living person. That's direct from the Coroner's Office. The person is unknown. There are a couple of cases I get mixed up on, but I think there are some people who were brought in for questioning on a murder case that could have something to do with the ear. I heard some of the same names.
Do you know who was brought in for questioning?
There were at least three, maybe four. But a name that keeps coming up is this woman who lives in an apartment building very close to your house and also close to the field where you found the ear. There's also a business man over by the Franklin factory district that was questioned. And a musician. And some others.
Were all these people questioned this afternoon?
No, this has been going on for some time. Several months. About six months ago some parts of bodies were found down by the river. They were from people who were reported missing. They never found one complete body, only parts.
The ear is from a missing person maybe?
Maybe so.
It's a strange world isn't it? Do you know what building the woman lives in?
Yeah. It's close by, that's what's creepy. They've had her under surveillance for a couple of months, except I don't know what they've found out because my father isn't in charge of her.
I guess you have to get back home soon?
Not really, why? You want to see the building? Come on, I'll show you.
That's the building. She lives on the Seventh Floor. Don't stop to look long, the police are watching.
Where are they?
I don't know, you're not supposed to see them. They're supposed to see you.
Did they find out anything when they questioned her?
I don't know, like I said, she's not my father's case.
Oh yeah. What about those other people? Anything?
My father is watching the businessman. The businessman had a partner who disappeared. Left his whole business and family, his wife and two kids. They think he's been murdered.
You really do hear a lot, don't you?
Yeah, I guess so. What are you going to do now that you're home?
I have to help out in my father's hardware store. They're giving me sort of my own hours for a while, which is nice.
Still, it must be kinda rough.
It's not bad, but it's bad enough. It's a lot worse for my father. I used to know a kid who lived there and who had the biggest tongue in the world.
What happened to him?
I don't know. He moved away.
I've gotta go in.
Thanks for the tour. It was nice talking to you.
I guess I'll see you sometime.
I guess so. Like you said. It's a strange world.
Yeah. Good bye.
You hungry or thirsty, or both?
I don't know.
I'd like to talk to you about something.
Just a minute, pull over and wait a minute.
I don't want to cause any trouble.
I'm here, aren't I?
I guess Mike's got some sort of sports practice in the afternoon.
Ooooo, you are smart. Just don't get too smart.
Alright, now tell me. What is it?
There are opportunities in life for gaining knowledge and experience. Sometimes, in some cases, it's necessary to take a risk. I got to thinking. I'll bet a person could learn a lot by getting into that woman's apartment, you know, sneak in and hide and observe.
You said it was a strange world. And you're the strangest part of it. Are you crazy? She is possibly involved in murder. This gives me the creeps.
Settle down. I have a plan which I think will work. There is very little for you to do, but I do need your help. Aren't you curious about my plan?
It wouldn't hurt to hear the plan, I guess.
Alright. the first thing is to get into her apartment and open a window that I could crawl into later.
Now, how are you going to do that?
Right out in the car I happen to have some old overalls and a bug spraying rig. I will go to her apartment and be the pest control man. I will spray her apartment. After a few minutes you will knock on her door, drawing her attention away from me and I will then jimmy a window.
What will I say when she comes to the door?
You will be a Jehovah's Witness. I have a few "Awake" magazines for you. You don't have to keep her very long. A few seconds is all I'll need. Whatiya think?
I don't know, it sounds like a good daydream, but actually doing it is too weird. Too dangerous.
Let's just try the first part. If that goes well, we'll see about the rest. No one will suspect us, because no one would believe two people like us would be crazy enough to do something like this.
You've got a point there.
Now, we'll walk over so there's no license plates and you give me at least three minutes. I can stall if it's more, but I need time to find a good window, alright?
Alright.
Let's go.
Okay, I'm going ahead. Wait a minute, what's her name?
Oh brother. Dorothy Vallens, Seventh Floor. Look on the mailbox for her number, bright boy.
Thanks. Dorothy Vallens. Okay, goodluck. Three minutes, no sooner.
Alright. Good luck, yourself.
Are you alright?
Yeah, let's get outta here. What happened?
I was just about to go to the door, when that man did my job for me. Was it alright?
Yes and no. Did you recognize him?
No. I only saw his back. He went down another stairwell at the end of the hall.
I didn't get a good look at him either, but he sure looked at me. I didn't have time to get a window, but I found this key. Pretty nifty, huh?
Yeah, if it opens the door.
Yeah.
So, what's next?
Pretty clever. Are you game for more?
I owe you, since I goofed up this one.
You didn't goof it up, but you still owe me one. I want to sneak in tonight. It's Friday, do you have a date tonight?
Yes. I do.
Well, it's Friday night and you're a beautiful girl. I guess you would have a date, that does that.
You really want to do this, don't you?
I don't want you to get involved, really, I mean, I do, but if something went wrong I mean, like you said, they may be involved in murder.
I'll tell Mike I'm sick. There's a game tonight anyway and he'll never miss me. Afterwards he can go out with the guys. Just so the record is kept straight though, I love Mike. What do want me to do?
First of all, we'll have a nice dinner. Try to find out where Dorothy sings.
I already know. The "Slow Club". It's on Route 7.
Great. I'll pick you up around eight o'clock. Is that good?
Yeah, but don't pick me up. My father may think it's strange. I'll walk over to your house. I'll be there at eight o'clock.
Okay. You better get out before someone sees us.
What's the plan.
First of all, we're going to the Slow Club to see Dorothy Vallens. We'll watch her for awhile. I'd like to hear her sing anyway, and then also we'll know she is there and not in her apartment.
Brilliant.
Then we'll drive back to her apartment and I will plant myself there.
This is not my usual Friday night!
That sounds good.
Two.
Here's to. An interesting experience.
I'll drink to that.
Jeffrey, I don't think you ought to do it.
Why not?
It's crazy and dangerous. My God, I shouldn't have told you.
It'll be okay. I don't think you should wait out here though. I think you should go home. Can you drive this car?
Yeah, but.
Leave it in the front of your house for me, okay?
OK.
Could you wait a little while, this key may not fit.
I wish you wouldn't do this. It doesn't make any sense. Let's go somewhere and have some coffee.
I'm going in, Sandy. I'll see you tomorrow and tell you how it went.
I, I don't want to see you tomorrow. Mike's coming over.
Oh, okay, can I call?
Okay, yeah, call.
Look, it can wait till Sunday.
Call tomorrow. It's okay. Good luck. I hope you can sneak out okay. You're going to wait until she's asleep?
Yeah.
I'm going to wait here until she comes.
Are you sure?
I'll honk four times so you'll hear it and know she's on her way up. Okay?
Okay, thanks.
I don't know if you're a detective or a pervert.
That's for me to know and for you to find out. I'll see you. I mean call you, okay?
Okay, okay. Bye.
Well, how did it go? What happened?
Well, I've found out some things, nothing really for certain. There are some strange people involved.
What did you see?
Well. Maybe we should discuss this somewhere else, you know what I mean?
What's with Mike?
He got a little jealous.
I'm sorry, I didn't...
It's okay. Don't worry about it.
You want a Dairy Queen?
No way. I'm about to blow up.
You want to tell me about it?
OK. It's a strange world, Sandy. This is what I have found out. What I think I have found out. Dorothy Vallens is married to a man named Don. They have a son. I think the son and the husband have been kidnapped by a man named Frank who has now cut off both of Don's ears. I think he is holding them to make her do things for him. I think she wants to die. The ears were for her a warning to stay alive. There is another man involved. I call him the "yellow man". You saw his back the other day in the hall at her door. I don't know what he does but I think he's on drugs supplied by Frank. Frank is a very dangerous man.
Wow. Should you tell my father?
I don't see how I can, and I can't prove any of this. I got all this information illegally. Also it could get you in trouble.
You saw a lot in one night.
Actually. I've been in twice.
Twice. Without her sensing anything?
Yes.
Did you see her undressed?
Yeah. I mean a little, you know.
Yeah?
That doesn't bother you, does it?
Who, me? Why should it?
That's what I thought.
You're sure right. It is a strange world.
Why are there people like Frank. Why is there so much trouble in this world?
I don't know. I had a dream. In fact, the night I met you. In the dream the world was dark because there weren't any robins. You know, birds. Robins stood for love, and all of a sudden thousands of robins flew down and brought this blinding light of love. And it felt like that love would be the only thing that would make any difference. I guess, until the robins come there is trouble.
Yeah I guess so. You're a neat girl.
So are you. I mean you're a neat guy. We better get back.
I guess so. You want to help me watch Frank? I'm going to stake out Frank's place tomorrow with a camera.
No, silly  I'm still in school you know. But I'll meet you after school and you can tell me what you've learned. You better be careful, Jeffrey.
I will. I'll pick you up on the same corner at three thirtyfive, okay?
Okay, be careful.
Okay, Sandy.
Can I give you a kiss good night?
You better not, Jeffrey.
Okay, okay.
Goodnight.
See ya tomorrow.
You were late.
I'm really sorry.
What am I going to do?
You want to go talk to him?
Yeah, but I don't think it's going to do much good. Let's go. I'll try to talk to him later.
You know, that cheese is practically all chemicals.
That's what makes it so good. You wanta hear what I saw today?
Shoot.
Number one. I saw the Yellow Man go into Frank's building, laughing with Frank. Now, the only trouble is, what does this prove?
Nothing really, but it's interesting. They know each other. They seem to like each other.
Maybe. But I think the Yellow Man is on drugs. I think Frank supplies him.
Oh yeah?
Number two. I saw the Yellow Man come out. This time with a well dressed man with an alligator briefcase. They drove down this factory building and stood on a staircase looking at something in the distance. Number three. Now get this. In the distance was a murder. A drug dealer shot to death and a woman with her legs broken.
Jeffrey!!
Then these guys told me the police will find a huge amount of drugs inside the dead man's place.
I can't believe what you are finding out. Are you going to continue with this. Are you going back to her apartment?
Yeah.
Jeffrey? Why?
I'm seeing something that was always hidden. I'm involved in a mystery. I'm learning. And it's all secret.
You like mysteries that much?
Yeah, you're a mystery. I like you. Very much.
You worry about me really?
Yes. Is that so surprising? Yeah I worry, a lot. I got you into this.
Great. Hey, I've got a bit of a problem. I know some things that could help your father but you might get into trouble.
Jeffrey, are they important things? Well forget me  you have to tell him. Jeffrey, I mean it.
Okay, but I promise I won't mention you. Okay? I'll see him at the police station, okay? See you Friday night, if not before.
Everything okay?
Yeah. I think so. I just had to tell him some of what I knew. Is Friday still on?
You didn't tell him about me?
No.
I should never had gotten you going on this. Yes Jeffrey. Friday's on!
Okay. Great!
Okay.
What is it?
Just some fatherly advice.
What was that all about?
Nothing, really! It's good to see you.
It's good to see you.
Where to?
Just go over to Gelford and up to Vista. It's not far. Can you tell me any more about what you learned?
I'd rather not talk about it. I'll tell you about it sometime.
It's okay.
You look beautiful.
Thank you. Whatiya say we just enjoy the evening?
I like that idea, that's a real good idea.
You want to dance?
I can't dance fast.
Really?
Really. You want to dance with someone else?
NO.
Let's wait for some slow one.
Just a minute.
You want to dance?
Okay.
Oh my God. What's wrong?
Frank!!!
My father has a gun at home.
No.
Sandy, this guy is a killer!! I promise you.
Dorothy!... Dorothy!
Dorothy Vallens?
Yes.
Take her to my house. My dad can get an ambulance faster than anyone. Do you have anything to put around her?
No. Is Detective Gordon going to be at your house?
Probably not. No. Why?
Okay. Let's get her over to your father's.
Right. Watch out for Mike, there.
Jeffrey? What's going on?
Shhh. I'll tell you.
I should go with her, Sandy.
Go ahead.
Sandy?
Go ahead!
Please get to your father and send him and the police to Dorothy's apartment right away. Be sure your father comes. Something is happening over there. They're hurting someone, the guy she loves. Tell them to hurry. I'm going over right now.
No Jeffrey!!
Yes I'm going. I have to. I love you. I will, believe me.
Look Jeffrey.
Yeah. I just saw him outside. Maybe the robins are here.
Hi Dad.
Hey Jeff.
Looks like they've got you strapped in pretty good.
Uhuh.
Are you feeling okay?
Uhuh.
Good to see you, son.
It's good to see you, Dad.
How ya doin' Dad?
Hey Jeff. I'm feelin' so much better.
Good deal Dad.
No.
Looks like you'd make a good runner.
Well.
I mean, you don't exactly have the build for a football. I mean, no offense.
No, you're right.
I mean, some guys play anyway but they usually get slaughtered.
Yeah, well I never wanted to get slaughtered much.
Well, most guys don't. I mean that's the point. You all mind if I take my vitamins?
Hey, you ivy league shit. COME HERE!
Later Mike. I gotta take care of someone who's hurt here, in case you haven't noticed.
Hello, uh, my name is Jeffrey Beaumont. Is Detective Williams in?
Oh, yes, Jeffrey. Come in. He'll be back any minute now. You're welcome to wait. Is it urgent?
I just wanted to ask him a few questions, that's all. Maybe I better go.
Really, he'll be home soon, would you like a cup of coffee?
Alright.
I was sorry to hear about your father. I know your mother from church. It's such a shame.
Yeah, I know.
Would you like a piece of cake?
No. No thank you.
It's a real good chocolate cake. Duncan Hines' devil's food. Real good.
Yeah. okay.
He comes over to study.
Yeah.
Mrs. Williams? Thanks for the cake.
Oh, you're welcome. Nice to finally meet you, Jeffrey.
Say "goodnight" to Sandy.
Here you are. Would anyone like coffee?
That sounds great!
Anyone else? Alright Jeffrey, just a minute.
Please excuse me a moment, Jeffrey, and I'll get to the dishes.
Sure thing, please don't worry about me. Can I help you with the dishes?
Nice of you to offer, Jeffrey, but certainly not. Just relax and enjoy your coffee. I'm sure Sandy will be back soon.
Sandy?... Sandy, please.
I'll get a coat for her.
I mean, for good, Jeffrey.
For good? I can't Mom. Not right in the middle of the term.
Jeffrey, honey. Your father's condition is serious. It's going to cost so much. We just won't have the money to keep you in school. I'm telling you this now, so that you can get your things together and check out of school, honey, or whatever you have to do, it'll save you another trip back. You're going to have to work at the store.
Mom.
Where's all your things, Jeffrey?
This is it.
Jeffrey, breakfast is ready.
Be right down.
What time are visiting hours?
I've made arrangements with Dr. Gynde for 10:30. But Jeffrey, you'll have to walk over; I need the car this morning.
Well. Okay.
Jeffrey, when you see your father.
Yeah?
He doesn't know you're out of school. He thinks it's a vacation for you.
What?
It would be too much for him. So please let him think as he does, that you're home just to see him.
Thanks a lot, Mom.
Jeffrey! Nobody wanted you to leave school and go to work in the store, maybe going back to school will be an option one day. I hope so.
I'm going out for awhile.
Do you want the car?
No, I'm just gonna walk around.
Alright.
Can I use the car tonight?
Of course, Jeffrey.
God, you scared me.
Is something wrong? What's happened to your face?
Nothing. I'm fine.
You can't just stay out half the night and carry on, Jeffrey. There's got to be some order, Jeffrey. I thought it would have been nice to call your father when you got home but now it is much too late.
Come on. I wancha to meet a frienda mine. Raymond, get enough beer for Ben too.
Okay Frank.
What kinda beer do you like?
Raymond! Where's the fuckin' beer?
Right here Frank. You want me to pour it?
No, I want ya to fuck it. Shit, yes, pour the fuckin' beer.
There ya go.
Good, let's drink up.
Hello?
Speak to me Fucker.
No thanks.
No thanks. What does that mean?
I don't want to go.
Go where?
On a ride.
A ride? Hell, that's a good idea. Okay, let's go. Hey, let's go.
Heineken.
FUCK THAT SHIT. PABST BLUE RIBBON!!!
Hey neighbor. Here's to Ben.
Here's to Ben.
Do you see, Ben? I can make him do anything I fuckin' please.
Hey? You like to walk.
What?
Let's take our neighbor out. Let him fuckin' walk back.
What are you lookin' at?
Nothing.
Don't look at me, Fuck. I shoot when I see the whites of the eyes. You like me?
Don't be a good neighbor to her or I'm gonna send you a love letter. Straight from my heart, fucker. You know what a love letter is? It's a bullet, straight from my gun, fucker. Once you get a love letter from me, you're fucked forever. Understand, Fuck?
Yes.
I'll send you straight to hell, Fuck!
We're looking for him. In your opinion, why did Frank kidnap Dorothy's son and husband?
He became obsessed with her. She hated him. He had to have her. He kidnapped them to control her. To make her do things. Then she wanted to commit suicide so he started cutting off ears as a warning to her to stay alive. I'm not kidding. Frank loved blue, blue velvet. He had to have Dorothy cause her whole life was blue.
You seemed to see some very interesting things on your little escapade with Dorothy Vallens.
Yeah. I guess I did. What's going to happen to me?
We're going to leave that up to Detective Williams. I'll tell you though, you're okay. You shot a real son of a bitch.
Yeah. I sure know that. Yeah, but how many more are out there?
Hello, baby.
Shut up. It's daddy, shithead.
Hello, daddy.
My bourbon.
MOMMY!
Mommy's here.
Baby wants to fuck.
Who's this fuck?
He's a friend. From the neighborhood. We were just talking.
From the neighborhood? Shut the fuck up. You like telephones? Huh? You wanta go for a ride?
Where are we going, Frank?
Hey Tits, I'm taking your neighbor to the country. Maybe something for you too.
Frank?
You want to see him too, right?
Yes, but.
Then, shut up!
Look at these. What are these?
Come on, Frank. Let's go. Please.
Don't say PLEASE, Fuckhead. WHAT ARE THESE?
Those are my breasts.
Can I feel 'em?
If you want to.
Frank, he didn't mean it. Leave him alone. Come on. He didn't mean it.
Shut up. Gimme your lipstick. Hey, pretty, pretty.
Frank gone?
Yeah, but get outta here. He's comin' back.
Bull.
Alright, suit yourself.
He's comin' back? What for?
'Cause he's comin' back, that's what for. Frank's got you really loaded tonight.
Yeah, maybe so. Frank's got me, and you and really it's all thanks to Don, isn't it. Remember that. Your husband was the one who started fucking my mind with drugs.
Oh he forced you, huh?
He's the reformed dealer though who wanted to turn himself in. He's the one that caused Frank to come and Frank's fucking us real good. I just feel so horny. I'm supposed to be here watching you why can't I be here fucking you. Listen. I know his cock's the size of a pin  let me give you the real thing. Let me wet my whistle, baby.
No way, get out. I'm gonna tell Frank. I'm gonna tell him what you said.
Okay, I'm goin'. You'll see, I'll get you.
Yes? What is it?
Pest control, gotta do your apartment.
Oh God, that stuff stinks.
Nope, it's new stuff. No smell.
Oh yeah, that's good.
That oughta do it.
Yeah.
GET OUT OF THERE!!! GET OUT!!! Put your hands up, on your head. GO ON!!! Get down on your knees  DO IT!! What are you doing? Who are you? What's your name? WHAT'S YOUR NAME?
Jeffrey.
Jeffrey. Jeffrey what?
Jeffrey nothing.
You tell me!! Let me see that wallet. Jeffrey Beaumont. What're you doing in my apartment, Jeffrey Beaumont?
I wanted to see you.
What? Are you kidding me? Who sent you here?
Nobody.
Shit. You better tell me something.
I was an experiment. Just to see if I could do it.
An experiment? Hey, I've seen you before.
I sprayed your apartment. I took your key. I really didn't mean to do anything but see you.
Tell me what you saw tonight. TELL ME.
I saw you come in, talk on the phone. Get undressed.
The phone. What did you hear on the phone. Tell me. Word for word.
You said hello, to Frank. You wanted to talk to someone? Don? And little Donny. You said something about Momma loves you. And something about a Meadow Lane. Something in an hour. I don't remember any more.
That's right. That's what I said. You have a good memory. Then what?
Well.
THEN WHAT?
Then you got undressed.
How many times have you sneaked into girls' apartments and watched them undress?
Never before this.
How'd you like it if someone sneaked into your house and watched you. Get undressed. I want to see you.
No. Come on.
NO, you come on. Take off your pants. I want to see you.
Look. I'm sorry. Just let me leave.
No way.
What do you want from me?
I, I don't know.
What do you want?
Do you like that?
Yes.
Do you like talk like that?
No.
Lie down on the bed.
Don't. I don't like that. What do you want?
Nothing. Are you alright?
Sure I'm alright.
I'll go then.
Don?
No.
Don. Hold me. I'm scared. Hold me. Please.
Thank you. honey.
It's okay. It's okay.
Do you like the way I feel?
Yes.
See my breasts? See?
Yes.
See my nipples?
Yes.
You can kiss them if you want. Feel them. They're getting hard.
You can hit me, if you want to.
No, please. I won't.
Do you like me?
Yes, I like you.
You can be my special friend and come and put that in me.
I made it go down the toilet.
What?
Next Christmas. Is he Santa Claus who has left a present for Dorothy? What was it? An ear? Another ear?!! What was it?
Do you know?
No.
You don't?
No. What is happening?
Maybe you don't know. I know you though. You're Jeffrey Beaumont and I know where you live and I know ways to get you and I know ways to kill you.
Please don't talk like that. You're upset. I'm not helping you. I'm sorry for what I did. I better go.
Go then. I can't let you put it in me now but I want you. I like you.
Then don't talk about killing.
Did I say that? I didn't mean it, or did I? Sometimes I think it would be fun. Go ahead, you better leave now. I can't open myself to you now. I'll tell you a little secret. I want to die.
Don't say that.
It's a secret so don't tell anyone. Some day I'll show you where. I've gotta go to sleep now.
OK.
Hi, can I come in?
Yeah, hurry up though.
Why are you here. Whatiya want?
I, uh.
I looked for you in my closet tonight. It's crazy, I don't know where you came from, but I like you.
That's not crazy. I like you too.
I liked being with you last night.
Same here.
Oh shit.
Frank? Can you stand up?
I'm alright. Go hide. This won't take long. Be quiet.
Nice guy. Who's he?
Who's it, you mean.
Oh God. Don!!! Why can't I just die.
There you go again. Stop saying that. You can make it.
I can't. I can't. You think you know so much.
Take it easy. What's goin' on anyway? Why are you in so much trouble?
Look.
No.
Falling.
No. Please, Dorothy. Why are you in so much trouble?
Who is Don?
Don? Are you in with them?
No. But you're in very big trouble.
Why are you so interested? Why do you keep asking me?
I came back to help you. You said do I let girls sneak into my house. You know where I live. If you need to, come to where I live, OK?
Who are you? Maybe I'll need to. You like me, huh?
Yes.
Or do you just want me? I'm going to let you enter me now.
No. I should go.
Please, please stay.
Come in.
Hello.
It used to make me laugh, but.
I'm sorry, maybe I better go Dorothy.
Yes. Frank
Frank is coming?
No. How could he? Don't go. You think I'm crazy, don't you? I want you to stay. Don't hate me.
I sure don't hate you.
I'm not crazy. I know the difference between right and wrong.
That's good.
Do you like my body?
Sure I do.
What do you want to do?
I'm doing it.
Are you a bad boy?
Whatiya mean?
Do you want to do bad things? Anything, anything.
What do you want?
I want you to hurt me.
No. I told you. I don't want to hurt you. I want to help you. I think I know some of what is happening to you. Dorothy? Frank has your husband and son. Dorothy? Doesn't he? You have to do something Dorothy. Go to the police.
No police!!! No police!!
You like to open me, don't you?
Yes.
What if I told Frank that you opened me?
That wouldn't be too good, would it?
Frank would open you.
Okay. I know you've been scared. Now you want to scare someone.
Does that scare you?
Shut up.
Beeeee careful.
Come on Dorothy.
What if Frank came over here and found us?
Look, snap out of it, will ya?
Kiss me.
Do you love me?
Do you love me?
I asked first.
Sometimes I think I do.
And sometimes you think you don't?! Well, get away then!
Wait a minute. Wait. Whatiya want? For cryin' out loud!
Just get outta my bed.
I love you Don with all my heart.
No, it's not Don.
I didn't mean to hurt you.
Shhhhhh. Now I have your disease.
You what?
You put your disease in me. Your semen. It's hot and full of disease.
There's no disease, I can tell you.
Men are crazy. Then they put their craziness into me. Then it makes me crazy. Then they aren't so crazy for awhile. Then they put their craziness in me again. It's burning me, but I love you. I do, I do. Did you know that? Did you know that I love you?
I'm glad you do.
There's so much I want to tell you. I'm in so much darkness though with things moving. There is darkness sucking me. It's kissing me and darkness is entering me. In every hole. It's opening me to a death.
Dorothy. No!
If I die, then they'll be free. It's getting late, isn't it? I can tell, it's a cold feeling when it's late. It's warm then it gets cold. Jeffrey. I feel it getting cold.
You called me Jeffrey.
I did. Are you?
Yes.
Why are you here? HMMMMMMMM!!!! OK.
No. Not really. But also because I really want you to be alright.
I guess I should go.
I want you to stay with me.
I think I better go.
I'll call you.
Okay. Soon? Do you think I'm too fat?
What?
I'm getting a little bit fat. I hate that.
You look beautiful to me.
Oh no.
No. Hi baby.
Yeah, it's me.
Oh God, Jeffrey, is that you? Oh God.
Where have you been? Oh God, they hurt him, Jeffrey. Jeffrey, Jeffrey, Jeffrey, hold me. HOLD ME. Oh God.
It's okay. It's okay.
My secret lover.
They hurt his head.
Who, Dorothy?
Don. Help him. HELP HIM!! DONNY!!!!
Hold me, Don.
Don? Where is he?
HELP HIM!! Promise me you'll help him!
I promise, Dorothy. I promise.
Hold me. I'M FALLING!
Are you Detective Williams?
Yes.
My name is Jeffrey Beaumont  I live near you. I believe you know my father, Tom Beaumont  Beaumont's Hardware Store?
Sure I do. I understand he's in the hospital. How is he?
He's alright, I guess. I hope. They're doing tests, that's why I'm home from school. I was over at the hospital this morning and I was going home and in the field behind our neighborhood. There behind Vista, I found an ear.
You did? A human ear?
Yeah. I've got it here in this bag. I thought I should bring it to you.
Yep, that's right. Let's take a look at it.
By the way, Jeffrey, this story isn't going to the press and I'm going to ask you to consider all you've heard strictly confidential. Do not discuss this business with anyone, but me, or other police personnel. Got it?
Got it. Thanks for letting me in on as much as you did.
Come on. I'll drive you home. It's on my way.
Come into the study a minute.
Excuse me, Mrs. Williams.
Detective Williams here. Yeah. Tell him to go to Sergeant Milton. Yeah, copy. Well, Jeffrey, you found something which is very interesting to us. Very interesting. I know you must be curious to know more. But. I'm afraid I'm going to have to ask you not only not to tell anyone about your find, but also not to ask more about the case. One day, when it's all sewed up, I'll let you know all the details. Right now, though, I can't.
I understand. I'm just real curious like you said.
I was the same way when I was your age. I guess that's what got me into this business.
It must be great.
And it's horrible too. I'm sorry Jeffrey. That's the way it has to be. Anyway. I'm sure you do understand.
Jeffrey?
Yes?
If you want to come up a minute, I'll show you some pictures.
These are beautiful. How's the case coming?
Okay.
Anything you can tell me?
The criminals are winning.
Is that why you say it's horrible?
Yes.
I guess you've seen some bad things.
Yes I have  so bad I wouldn't poison your mind by telling you.
Why do you do it?
I won't let the bastards get me up against the wall. It's an act of defiance.
Yeah. I get it.
What is this? What color is it?
Blue. It's Blue Velvet.
What color is it?
It's blue. Blue velvet.
Jeffrey! Come on in.
Hi. Hi Sandy. I'm sorry to bother you, but I've got to talk to you.
Okay, come on in. Looks like you had a bad face lift.
Yeah.
Okay?
Okay, I gotta tell you. I've discovered some things. Anyway I have to show you some pictures and tell you some things about them. The first picture is this.
And that man came out with a third man  this welldressed guy. Here's the photo. I think a girl named Dorothy Vallens is in trouble with these people. I think Frank has taken her husband and her son.
I have no hard proof of any of this. Her address is also on the photos. I think these people are involved with drugs, and murder. I think Frank is killing drug dealers and... ...and somehow Frank is getting all their drugs. I had to tell you I got slightly more involved in this than you wanted me to, but it's over now for sure. I had to tell you about these things in case it could help.
Well now Jeffrey, how did you come to get so involved?
I can't tell you the whole story. I. I took it upon myself. I can't say more.
Is Sandy part of this?
No, not at all.
Who knows you have these?
Only you and the photo lab.
You're all through with this now?
Yes sir. I sure am.
For now. Alright, you better be. And Sandy better not be involved with this, I can tell you. Be prepared to come in for further interrogation on this later.
Yes sir.
Detective Williams!! Detective Williams!!
Detective Williams here. Is that you, Jeffrey?
Yes it's me!!! Frank is on his way up to Dorothy's apartment. Oh no. Frank has a radio and is hearing everything we say!! Detective Williams. Hurry. I'm in the apartment. Hurry. I'm hiding in the back bedroom.
We're ten minutes away and moving as fast as we can.
Because of your information I alerted internal affairs to check out Detective Gordon. I had to keep on with him as if nothing was different. He slipped off on his own when he found out we were going to raid Frank's place.
Does Dorothy know her husband is dead?
Not yet.
Oh my God. Is her son OK?
Frank. Come in.
Hey, I brought some friends. And some beer.
Fine. Welcome. Come sit down.
Suave. Goddam are you suave, you fucker. You want some beer?
Certainly Frank. Darling, get some glasses. We'll have some beer with Frank. Won't you sit down?
Shit Ben! How the shit are ya?
Fine Frank. Fine. How are you?
Fuckin' good, real fuckin' good. You know this little tid bit, Dorothy, and this thing, here, is a neighbor. What the shit we're doin' with a neighbor, I don't know. Goddam!!! This is the suavest guy I know. Look at you. You're one beautiful fucker, Ben. I love this jacket and that cigarette holder of yours. Shit, that is too fuckin' much. Where's those glasses. This beer's gonna get too warm. I can't stand fuckin' warm beer. It makes me puke.
Darling, where are the glasses? Oh, here they are.
To your health, Frank.
Shit. Let's drink to something else. Let's drink to fuckin'. Say here's to your fuck Frank.
If you like Frank. Here's to your fuck. Cheers.
Frank, I have something for you. Excuse us everyone.
EXCUSE US por favor! Hey. Let Tits see her kid.
See you Tuesday, Frank.
Right Ben. LET'S GO FUCK. I'll fuck anything that moves.
I sent a trunk home yesterday. This is all I have.
You look good, Jeffrey. Did you have a nice flight?
Yeah. How's Dad?
I think it's important not to get depressed. Depression is a terrible thing. They say it can bring on illness.
Aunt Barbara. I'll try not to get depressed.
Jeffrey, you're not going down by Lincoln, are you?
No, I'm just going to walk around the neighborhood. Don't worry.
Doctor Gynde, my whole family's sick. What's going on?
I'm not sick.
Will you tell Mom when she gets home from the hospital that I've gone to dinner at Sandy Williams' house?
Okay honey. That sounds nice. Jeffrey. I think you've got termites in the house.
Oh yeah? Have you seen any?
I've seen a few.
Well, I haven't seen any. I wouldn't worry about it. Look, I better go.
Okay honey.
I don't want to talk about it. Everything's okay now. I don't want to talk about it.
Sometimes it helps to talk things over. For instance, many marriages are saved by.
Aunt Barbara. I love you, but you're not gonna get it.
Tower. Wolf One. I've got a problem here.
Say your problem, Wolf One. Are you declaring an emergency?
Stand by. One.
Wolf One  say intentions.
I've got secondaries of an engine fire and I'll need to find a clear area to eject.
Roger, Wolf One. Can you make it to the ocean?
Tower, say again!!
The SAR HELO is airborne with you in sight.
I'm marking the 180 radial for five and ejecting.
Roger, Wolf One.
I'm going to need two more banana splits and a cherry coke!
You bet, Mom! Coming up!
I can't tell the boys from the girls anymore!
Uh...yeah. It's like hard.
I miss those nice flowerpower kids. How 'bout you?
Um...uh...
I'm selling this place. I want out of this hell hole!
Could I, like...oh, wow...like,uh...
Buy it from me?
Yeah! Yeah, that's it!
I'll give it to ya, no money down. The neighborhood has gone to hell anyway.
Eve! This guy is unbelievable!
I knew you'd like him.
Darlin', this is XFile stuff! Think about it! The guy's got all this easily negotiable property. He's obviously setting something up very big. Like a selfsustaining island off the coast of South America, for instance. Or perhaps he's the head of a cult that's doing weird things with poultry and pipe tobacco. I've heard worse.
So, Adam...where on earth are you from?
Outoftown. That's all he'll say.
Since that guy rearended me in Palm Springs.
Oh, yes.
I even guessed his hotel, didn't I?
Give me your hand.
Oh, my God...
But first, you have to start with the clothes!
Exactly. You understand that, don't you? You have no chance of meeting a woman dressed like that.
I don't know.
Money is no object. He's got cards up the wazoo.
You're serious, aren't you?
What's that supposed to mean?
It means that your taste in men's apparel is as bad as your taste in men.
Well, that's blunt!
I'm sorry. But if the shoe fits.
And I suppose you see him in some sort of strapless thing, don't you?
I see "elegant."
Yeah? Like Ralph Lauren?
That's what I'm sensing.
Alright, I will.
I'm busy tomorrow anyway. I have to buy six thousand paper napkins.
What do you think, Adam?
Well, what do you think?
I think...it...works.
Let me show you the entire trousseau!
How 'bout it, Eve? Can he skate around your block?
No.
That water's freezing!
He's from Alaska.
Just be yourself.
Always good advice.
For him. It doesn't work for the rest of us.
Are you kidding?! You wouldn't even be a crumb on her table! You don't see that?!
Eve?!
Well, I'm trying to educate him! It's nothing personal.
Adam, I think for you, we should go for "sweet."
Um... Eve?
It's not so much what you say but how you say it. Women like men who are unpredictable.
Go to the bathroom.
Right here? Well, you're being so bossy I wasn't sure!
He go back to the hotel?
Uh..he might of.
What's that mean?
We did not leave together.
Who did he leave with?
What's it to you?!
I'm his pimp. He left with the dancers, didn't he?
Hey, you're the psychic. Eve, the psychic pimp. You tell me.
Those sluts!
Yeah. But who's not a slut these days?
Where are you going?
To bed.
To bed?
Yeah. I'm not the one who's in love with the guy.
What?! Now hold on! Wait one damn minute!
In the first place, I don't fall in love with weirdos I've only known for four or five days.
Yes, you do.
And I don't fall in love with grown men who collect baseball cards!!
Uh, yes, you do.
Or pee in their pants when they see the ocean!
Yes, you do!
Or have perfect table manners.
You know, I asked him about that. And he said that good manners are a way we have of showing other people that we respect them. See, you'd eat like a slob if you were alone, but since another human being is present, you show that person respect by going to the trouble of having proper manners. I didn't know that. I thought it was a way of appearing superior. Know what else he told me?
What?
He thinks that I am a gentleman and that you are a lady!
Well, consider the source. I don't even know what a lady is.
Exactly! I thought a gentleman was somebody who owned horses. Turns out, the short and very simple definition of a gentleman or a lady is: someone who always attempts to make the people around him or her feel as comfortable as possible. That's it! If you don't do that, nothing else matters. The cars, the clothes, the houses...
Where did he get all that information?
From the oddest place. His parent's told him. I don't think I got that memo.
So now I suppose he's trying to make those two dancers feel as comfortable as possible.
He didn't leave with them.
Well...I admit it. I'm glad to hear that.
He left with Sophie.
What?!!
It's true. She swept him out the door whispering little French things into his ear.
Oh, no! Not Sophie! No way! Please don't tell me that!!
What are you going to do? Go over to her place and kick in the door?
You're goddamn right I am!
I don't think so.
Coward!
Well what was I supposed to do?! He wants me to live underground with him! That's like Silence of the Lambs, don't you think?!
I know...I know. You did the right thing.
Oh, no!
What?!
Gay.
Oh. Well, you're...certainly welcome!
Good God...you don't think there really is a bomb shelter, do you?
Fallout shelter.
What do you want to do with it?
Give it back to him.
And if we can't find him?
We'll find him.
What's wrong?
I don't know. Everything's so neat. It's all just so...goddamn dear. Damn!
See these? Found them in the box with the cards. These are stock certificates. IBM. AT&T. Polaroid.
Millions upon millions upon millions! The cards. The stock! The clothes! The toothpaste! The guy was on the level! And you blew it! A man walks into your life who is the kindest, most polite, honest, trustworthy, incredibly rich guy you have ever met in your life!! And what do you do?!
Have him committed.
Yeah! That's thinking.
He was always so "nice"! How was I supposed to know that's a good thing?! "Nice" is weird! Nice is...what is "nice"? It's not cool! I'll tell you that. Was it ever?
I don't know. I like to think so.
Well, at least I fell for him before I found out he was rich! That's new. Wait a minute! He said today he knew where home was. What happened this morning?! Where did you go?!
To get some frozen poultry.
Then what?
We came back to the house!
You didn't stop anywhere else?!
No. No, wait a minute. We stopped at a porno store.
What?!
An adult bookstore. He was very excited about seeing it. You think home is under a dirty bookstore in the Valley?
Come on.
Why would you put a fallout shelter under a porno shop?
None of this stuff was here in 1962. The Valley was mostly small homes and fruit orchards.
Well, we've come a long way, haven't we? I want to go home.
Yeah. Maybe he'll call.
Adam!!
Where?!
Stop!
What are you bitching about now?
What are you doing here?
I forgot some of my stuff.
Your stuff? Let me see that.
You came back for these?
Hey, they're Ralph Laurens. And who's this interesting looking fellow?
This is Adam. Adam, meet Cliff.
Go home, Cliff, wherever that might be.
Shana Gillroy's apartment. Remember her? The model who went to Harvard? Well, I better get going! Bye, Adam. Nice coat!
So where is your roommate, the model?
You know, I don't know. And looking at you, I don't care. It's been too long, Eve.
Go home, Adam. Go to your hotel.
Yeah. Before I kick your ass.
Stop it, you two!
I guess we shouldn't fight in here.
For Pete's sake, Calvin! We've got guests!
Sorry, honey! I just got to fooling with this darn rheostat.
Well, put it down and come in!
You bet, hon!
I'm sorry everyone, but given this extraordinary turn of events, I think it's prudent that we cut the evening short. I'm sure this Cuban thing will resolve itself, but in the meantime...I'd suggest taking a prayerful watchandwait stance!
We'll do this again! Maybe next week. Here's your hat. Could I wrap something up for you? Did you have a coat?
It's time.
Time? Oh, no Calvin. It's not time yet. I still have
It shuts off automatically.
Did you rig it to do that? You're so clever.
No. They all do.
I never know anymore.
You hear that?!
Yes.
Calvin, I wish you would have at least let me do the dishes. It's not going to be that easy getting all that dried on food off my nice plates.
I just hope those plates aren't radioactive by tomorrow morning.
Cheese is particularly troublesome.
Worse than your Kraft Holiday dip?
Oh, much worse. But not as bad as that Mexican Jumping Bean dip. You remember that?
Yeah, yeah. Okay. Give me the roast and watch your step. I'll come back for the radio.
How long will we have to stay down here?
I don't know. For this thing to blow over, it could take days.
Days??
Rather safe than sorry. That's my motto!
But, what if I go into labor? That could happen any time.
I've read up on it. I'll deliver the baby myself if I have to.
Now you listen to me Calvin Webber, when this baby comes, you're going to be out in the waiting room smoking yourself to death with all the other fathers.
Yes, dear!
As long as we've got that straight.
Home sweet home!
To you maybe.
What's that noise?
The locks.
The locks?
To keep us from trying to leave. After an atomic blast there's a radiation halflife that lasts thirty five years.
Thirty five years!
Then after that it's safe.
It's safe.
To go up.
To go up.
Hi, honey! Feeling better?
No.
We have to be strong, sweetheart. If not for ourselves, for the child.
All our friends...
Burnt to a crisp. I've given you the most welldone cut.
I'm not hungry.
Hot Dr. Pepper! Your favorite!
No, Calvin, you're favorite.
Really?
Maybe I've just got the creeps.
How could you?! This is just like home!
No. No! Calvin, this is different! Believe me!
Would you like a tranquilizer?
You have tranquilizers?
I told you! I've got everything!
Oh, no.
What?
Uh, oh. Now it's time.
Honey?
Is there a problem?
No, Calvin. Babies cry.
I've noticed.
What shall we call him?
No. I think it's just right.
And I was wondering...if...if I could have a...
Yes!
If I...you know...
What? Whatever you want, Helen!
Calvin?!
Right here!
We looked all over for you. What are you doing back here?
Oh, I was just examining this rear hatchway.
Why?
No reason. Well, it's pretty clear that the front entrance caved in when the bomb went off. So, you know, when the time is up, we'll have to return to the surface using, you know, this back entrance. Which is very nice because it has the service elevator!
Very nice. Unless it caved in, too.
Yes. Well... yes.
Watch this!
What?
Not bad for a three and a half year old! I'd like to see the public school system match that! I don't care how terrific it is!
Yes, he's very bright, dear. Much like his father. But you know, Calvin, maybe he's a little...young for school.
Nonsense. People have no idea what the human mind is capable of. Look at us!
Yes, you certainly will. And you'll find a nice girl and rebuild America. Just the way it used to be.
Oh, Calvin, I'm not sure we should be making promises that perhaps can't be kept.
I believe there will be other survivors. In fact, I'm guessing there's life on the surface, even now. It's not life worth living perhaps, but believe me, something's moving around up there. And I don't just mean the cockroaches.
Hi, honey!
Hi.
Calvin!
Coming!
Get the presents and do the lights.
You bet.
No kidding. Who else would have done it?
And I made these!
What did you wish for, Adam?
If he tells, it won't come true!
Oh, that's just a bunch of baloney! We never believed that in my family!
Well, we did in my family!
One who doesn't glow in the dark.
Calvin Webber! What a thing to say!
Well, we'll be going up in two years. We'll know then. I'm very hopeful.
Let's eat our cake.
Yeah. Let's dig in!
If we still have one.
Yes...
You know, when we do go up...I'm going to miss this old place. How 'bout you, hon?
Would you excuse me?
Sure.
In the generator room again?
Oh, yes. It just fascinates me how all these things work.
I know exactly what you mean! Hey, honey?
Should we say a little prayer first?
Just open the door.
Yes, yes it is!
It's an archaic colloquialism, roughly meaning..."good".
Yes! That's right!
I'm going to give it to you straight. There's no point in beating around the bush. There were survivors. Apparently, the fallout has created....a subspecies of mutants.
Mutants?!
It's not a pretty sight. Some eat out of garbage cans. Others are...cover your ears, Son, and hum. I mean that literally and I mean right now!
Others are...multisexual. It seems...they can be both masculine and feminine...simultaneously.
No.
Yes.
I don't believe it!
They've done a lot of rebuilding but society, at least as we knew it, has utterly collapsed. People throw up in the streets. Others point guns. There's something terribly wrong with the automobiles and...and I...I can't tell you the rest. I just can't.
Oh my. Oh,my, oh my, oh, my. So, what do we do now?
We stay down here.
We do?
Yes.
Excuse me.
For how long? We've just about run out of everything!
We'll make do. I'm of the opinion that these mutants will eventually kill each other off and then
No, Calvin. We're not going to make do. Not me! Not Adam. We're going up no matter what! We deserve it. Even if it's terrible!
Well, I am the head of this household
I want him to at least see the sky!
and we will
And the ocean! A mountain range!
do as I say!
He's smart.
Yes, dear, I know.
And Lord we ask finally that you send an angel to look after and protect our beloved son, Adam. Amen.
Amen.
How long will you set it for this time?
I thought ten years.
Well, that's...considerably shorter than before. I was wondering, Calvin, why set the locks at all. I mean the radiation is gone and...
To keep what's up there from getting down here! It's not the radiation I'm worried about.
Well, please excuse us! We...we haven't entertained a guest in...um...
Some time.
What can I offer you, Eve?
You got a light, honey?
What?! A light! Yes, I've got a light!
Good.
So...you...survived the blast, did you?
The blast? Honey, I have survived a host of things. Like the song says: "A country boy can survive!"
Yes, yes, the song. So tell me...has it been...hell up here?
"Hell up here?" Honey, it's been hell up here, down there and over yonder! Hell everywhere.
Yes, I can tell that just looking around. "Boy?" Did you say you were a "country boy?"
Cute Little Old Man, if you want a boy, I can be a boy. And if you want a girl, I can be a girl. I can be anything you want me to be!
Really?
Uhhuh. And it's all yours for the remarkably low price of only $200! And if you act now, I might even throw in some free lawn furniture.
No, I can't. I'm sorry! I have to go! I have to...
According to Caltech, this Webber guy was a bonafide genius and a borderline nutcase.
Well, he and Mrs. Nutcase must have been out here when the plane hit.
Unless we get a postcard or somethin', that's my guess.
What about relatives?
All back East.
The neighbors over there said the guy spent day and night out here. She'd bring him sandwiches and hot Dr. Pepper.
He drank it hot?
Yeah.
Good god.
Yeah.
Oh, my God!
He'll catch him. Hi. This is Nina Aron. I've got a run away and I'm going to need police assistance.
No! Not the police! Don't call them!
I have to. If a complaint is made and the person resists obser
No, I can't have that! They'll come with their cars and their guns and their handcuffs
Calm down, please. This man needs help and you need protection from him. That's obvious.
You know, I don't think so. I'm confused but you know, I don't think he'd ever hurt me. I don't think he'd hurt anyone.
And now you must let me be the judge of that!
I was frightened and I didn't know what to think! But you knowI believe him. I think he just wants to go home. Wherever the hell that is...
Let's all remain calm. That's the key thing.
Oh. A nice one, I hope.
Yes, ma'am.
Elbows, Son.
Sorry, Mom!
You never know. You may someday dine at the White House with the president.
Dad!
Oh, no! Oh, my goodness! Let's get him into the bedroom.
He seems to be doing all right now. I don't know if he's had a heart attack or just... a horrifying experience. But we need supplies and I've got to stay with him.
I'll go up.
I'm afraid you've got to.
I'll be all right.
You're my brave boy.
I don't know how far you'll have to travel to find supplies, but if you can't get home by nightfall, I want you to look for something called a Holiday Inn. Write that down. It's a hotel. There might still be one standing.
Yes, ma'am.
Right.
I just hope this is still good up there.
Mom?
Yes?
I was thinking that, uh...you know, while I was up there and all...that maybe I could, you know...try to meet a girl. I've, been thinking about that a little...just these last...fifteen years or so.
Oh, Adam,that would be wonderful if you could find a girl. One who's not a mutant...and hopefully comes from Pasadena. Nothing against Valley girls, but in my day anyhow, the girls from Pasadena, I don't know...always just seemed a little nicer.
Yes, ma'am.
Here's the shopping list and $3,000 which should take care of everything.
Yes, ma'am.
Your father has a few final words for you. You know, he'd fight a buzz saw for you  he loves you so much. We both do.
Heck, I know that mom! You're my parents.
...and his church group have volunteered to help us bring the supplies down. But we've got to hurry.
Are you in trouble, son?!
I think I'm being chased by a psychiatrist.
A psychiatrist?!
Mom? Eve and I have to go.
What?
I can't explain it now. But I want you to set the locks for two months. You have more than enough of everything. Then we'll be back to get you.
We have to go.
No, wait! At least stay for dinner!
This is your bedroom?
No, Mom, I've turned it into Dad's office.
Well, where are you 
Eve and I...eloped. We're married.
No.
Yes.
Hello.
Hi.
Howhow much do you want for the Mickey Mantle, rookie season?
I was thinking of selling all the cards.
Really? No kidding?
See, my problem is, all I have are hundred dollar bills and I need something smaller. Ones, fives, tens. Like that.
I see what ya mean. Tell you what...I'll give you five hundred dollars in small bills for the whole box.
Oh, that would be wonderful!
Well, we're here to help!
Sir? I would really appreciate it if you wouldn't take the Lord's name in vain again.
Oh, you got a problem with that?
I didn't want to leave without saying how much I admire your jewelry.
Hey, smart ass, how 'bout I kick your butt?
Whatcha looking at?
Oh, my holy stars! A Negro!
Say what?!
How do you do, ma'am.
I do alright.
Good!
Help you?
Yes, please. I'm looking for all beef patties.
Come on. Frozen. How much are they?
Frozen, they're sixthirty a dozen in the three pound box.
Then I'll need, twelve into nine hundred, seventyfive boxes. And that's almost...five hundred dollars just for the hamburger! And my Mom only gave me three thousand dollars for everything! The yacht batteries! The diesel oil! The birthday candles!
You could have a meat order that big delivered to your home.
Sure.
Well, that's great then! Terrific...except...it just occurred to me. I don't know where I live! I'm lost! I don't know where home is! Would you excuse me?
Gladly.
What? What is it?!
The sky!!!
The sky? Where?
Up there!!
I don't see anything!
Just look!!
You dial nine to get out.
Of what?
The hotel.
I see. Well, thank you very much. You've been very, very nice.
Thank you. Your father is a smart guy.
My father is a genius.
No kiddin'. Well...good night.
Good night! Sleep tight. Don't let the bedbugs bite! That's what my Mom always says... ...who I'm really beginning to miss. I'm sorry. It's my first night away from home.
How old are you?
Thirtyfive.
You don't look thirtyfive.
How old do I look?
Twentyfive? Around there.
I guess living up here makes people look older.
Up here on the fifteenth floor?
Yes. Up here on the fifteenth floor. Goodnight.
Goodnight.
You have very nice ceilings.
I do? Well, thank you! You like ceilings?
Not particularly.
Well, I hope you like these! Fresh sea urchin wrapped in seaweed. Or "nori" if you prefer. I love sushi.
I love Lucy!
You nut!
It's a very small place. People don't even know it's there.
And it's called...?
Maybe Eve can guess. She's psychic.
Really? Since when?
Right on the button.
Well, Dionne Warwick, guess his home town.
That's right?
I've never met anyone like you in my life.
She's right?!
I've got goosebumps all over me.
Why not just go to... Nome for supplies and a wife? Isn't that closer?
Well, we try. Listen, let me just ask you a few questions. When did Alaska become a state?
1959.
Who use to own it?
Russia.
When did we get it from them?
1867. Seward's Folly. We paid 7.2 million dollars for it. A tidy sum then, as well as now. I'm quoting my father, of course.
What's the capitol?
Juneau.
Hello! It's Anchorage! Gotcha!
Sorry, that's the largest city.
This must be very new.
Yeah.
It's so small.
What are you talking about? This is the new Mac. You a hacker?
I don't think so.
You don't have a computer in your cabin?
No.
How do you get through those winters? Well, you're right. Juneau. What's the highest peak?
Mt. McKinley. It's also the highest point in North America.
Okay, maybe she is psychic. Let's go eat!
That would knock my father out.
Yeah?
Oh, yes. It would probably kill him.
He's a Windows guy then, huh?
Yes. He likes windows.
Well, I think Windows stink. What do you think of that?
...I guess it's...just a matter of personal taste.
True.
Not on him.
I'm not wearing his pants.
Why not? He has great pants.
I just don't want to.
Okay.
Isn't it a little tiring to sit up straight like that?
No.
I guess a lot of those tall buildings we saw this morning are new.
Almost all of them.
The recovery is very impressive.
The recovery? Oh , yeah! Hey, they rebuilt the freeway in six months.
Amazing. I'm very impressed.
That's why little things mean so much to him.
I LOVE THIS!!
Why did you park way back there?
Miss Rustokov refuses to let total strangers drive her car.
Oh. I see.
What?!
Ladies first, Troy! That was close.
Yes! Lying is always a very effective dating tool.
Okay. Thank you, my friends.
I'm sorry. I took the Lord's name in vain again, didn't I? I'm so sorry.
No! There's an Adult Bookstore back there! I'll be right back!
Okay, Troy! Let's get those allbeef frozen patties!
How 'bout we check with Eve first?
You bet!
So, did you buy a movie?
What?
A magazine? A toy perhaps? In the bookstore.
No, I wouldn't go in one of those places with a gas mask on.
I know what you mean! I usually wear a big hat and dark glasses.
Does that work?
Yeah...Seems to.
Goodbye, Adam.
Goodbye.
Bye, Troy!
Bye, Adam!
And thanks for always being happy!
What?
This is what money looks like. It comes like this, in coin, or like this in paper. Or you can have an "investment." These are stock "certificates" that we bought in your name. Of course, they're worthless now, but at one time they were quite valuable.
They're pretty. Can I have them?
Sure. Now, let's move on to our French exam.
Latin exam, Dad. It's Tuesday.
You're right! It's Tuesday already! By gosh, time flies, doesn't it?!
Tempus fugit!
En arte voluptus. Que les bons temps roul!
Gerade aus dann links!
Sorgen sie bitte dafur das die gepack sorgfaltic behandeldt warren!
Haben sie etuas nettes in leder?!
You know, you have a wonderful sense of humor, son! I must say, the acorn doesn't fall very far from the tree. By the way, it's time I gave you something. Come with me.
These are wonderful.
It's my entire baseball collection. It's yours now.
What's baseball?
It's a game, son. I can explain it pretty easily. There's a pitcher.
Like a painting?
No, son. A pitcher.
Like one of Mom's?
Uh, no. There's a man who throws the ball  to a man who has a bat.
The nocturnal flying mammal?
No. Sit down.
No, no! The runner on second goes to third! He's out there!
Why?
Because he's forced out at third! It's a force!
Then why go there?
Because he must!
Thank you, Mom! Thanks, Dad!
Blow out the candles!
Oh, boy! A jacket!
Your mom made that all by herself.
No kidding!
Holy Cow! What the heck are these?!
Your rollerskates! I redesigned them! I think this new design will work even better!
These are really swell! I mean swell!
Well, do we just go on up?!
No, son! We wait for night. Now...is precisely when... we must be at our... most cautious.
HelenThomasWebber! Maybe we have been down here a little too long! Please excuse her French.
Shit is a French word?
C'est bon, Monsieur.
Merci!
Adam...don't forget...don't forget ...
Yes, father?! Yes?
...the pipe tobacco.
Yes, sir. Is that all?
Also...stay out of the "Adult Bookstore."
Adult Bookstore. Why?
Poison gas. Invisible. Don't forget.
I promise. Is that all?
One more thing. If you find a healthy young woman, bring her back with you.
I'll try.
But, I don't understand.
And, I'm asking you to trust me without understanding why.
Well, in that case...of course, son.
This is great son, just great. By the way, Eve's last name. Rustokov, that's not Russian, is it?
It's Ukrainian. Her grandparents immigrated here.
Uhhuh.
Dad, I don't know how to tell you this. And I was going to wait a while, but I think...Dad,there was no bomb. A plane crashed into our backyard. I looked it up in old newspapers.
You're sure?
Positive. The Soviet Union collapsed without a shot being fired. The Cold War is over.
That's what everybody believes?
Yes, sir. It's true.
What? Did the politburo just one day say  "We give up?"
Yes. That's kind of how it was.
Uhhuh.
My gosh, those Commies are brilliant! You've got to hand it to 'em! "No, we didn't drop any bombs! Oh yes, our evil empire has collapsed! Poor, poor us!" I bet they've even asked the West for aid! Right?!
Uh, I think they have.
Hah!!! Those cagey rascals! Those sly dissemblers! Those, uh... They've finally pulled the wool over everybody's eyes!
Are you all right?
Yes! Yes! Oh, Lord! Yes, oh, yes! But where is the one who came last night  all in yellow?!
All in yellow? Oh! That was my father!
Ooooohhhh!! Of course! The father! Forgive me!! Can you forgive me for my wasted life?! Everything has been so awful!!
I know it has been terrible. But it wasn't your fault. And now all the decay is over with and things are going to get better. You understand?
Yes.
I've got to go, now.
Of course you do. I'll stay here and pray.
That's always a good idea! Would you like some money? I have a great deal of it.
No. I don't need money anymore  I see that now.
How do I leave here?
The front door is open. Will you be back?
I promise.
I've got almost everything we need! And this nice man...
Archbishop Melker. We met earlier.
Is that a birthday cake?!
Yes, it is.
Geemanee!
Is this because of the radiation?
What?
Nothing.
Good evening. I want to stay at this hotel.
Fill this out please. And I'll need a card.
A card?
Yes, sir.
Of course!
Bon soir, mademoiselle!
Are you French?
No. I'm from out of town. I'm here on business.
Well, your business must not be sports memorabilia, because this one Mantle card right here is worth six thousand dollars all by its little self.
Get out of here!
No, you get out of here.
Come on, Heathcliff, I'll walk you to the corner.
Yes, ma'am. But my name is Adam.
Where are we going?
We? I'm going home. And, judging by that coat, I'd say you have to get back to the barber college.
No, I'm lost.
You're lost?
Say,...did you just lose your job because of me?
Forget it. I'm sick of working for that dickhead.
Dickhead?
A walking penis capable of intelligent speech. A dickhead.
What's wrong with you?
I just had a mental picture of...
Here, pick these up!
I came on a bus.
Why doesn't that surprise me?
I don't know. Why doesn't it?
Well, I guess because I'm a little psychic...I have this thing.
Oh, that's nice.
Let me guess something. This is your first visit to La La Land. You're staying somewhere over in Hollywood because, like an idiot, you thought that would be an exciting place to stay. Right so far?
So far?
Yes, I'm right?
Right.
I knew it! So anyhow, you get on a bus and before you know it, you're out here in the San Fernando Valley without a clue. Which brings us to here. Correct again?
Again.
Where are you staying? The Holiday Inn?
Yes! Yes! The Holiday Inn! That's exactly right!
See? I'm psychic. Not completely, but pretty much. That was pretty good, wasn't it?!
It was amazing.
Yeah. Thanks. Anyhow, let me predict a bus for you to get on.
Do you own a car?
I'm not taking you there, Sweetie. Rule Number One in North America: No strangers in the car.
If it will make you feel any better, I don't have a gun.
You don't?
Nope.
Well, that changes everything. Get the fuck away from me!! I mean it!!
I'm sorry! I said something wrong, didn't I! Please forgive me!
Get away from me!!
Wait! Please wait! I'll make a deal with you! I'll give you a Rogers Hornsby, if you'll take me to the hotel!
Rogers Hornsby?!?
He's all yours. I was holding him back.
Rogers Hornsby's worth like four thousand dollars!
So what?! I've got two of him! And this many DiMaggios and Robinsons. I was holding these out, too.
So for four thousand dollars, all I have to do is drive you to your hotel?
Yes.
And that's it?
Yes.
I don't have to take a physical in your space ship?
Heck, no! What?!
Okay. What the hell? You got a deal. Get in.
So...Mister Andretti, your first time on the freeway?
It's Webber. Adam Webber.
Mind if I change the station? Better traffic reports on AM.
Wait! Wait!
What is it?!
It's Perry!
Perry?
Perry Como! You had him! Go back! Go back!
Okay, okay! Take it easy!
How's that?
Oh, I could die...
Over this?
Yeah! Listen to this part. This is where it really takes off!
You are one scary sonofagun.
Hey, what are you doing?!
I know a shortcut.
Geezooie!! You better slow down!!!
I can't help it. Perry Como always does this to me! I just get so cranked!
That was...wonderful! I've never felt anything like that in my life.
Yeah, same here. Don't forget your suitcase.
Right.
I am so glad to see you!! I thought I'd never see you again!
Okay, down boy. I can't take this for driving you home. I wish I could, but I can't. So here, take it back. I could have just left it for you at the desk, but it's very valuable. Now take it.
I can't, it's yours.
Take it. damn it!
Okay.
Why are you doing that?
I haven't brushed yet.
Oh. Okay. Well, so long. Enjoy your visit.
Wait, Eve, please! Wait.
Please don't follow me. Don't do it!
I knew this would happen! You're like a lost puppy!
Can't you please just talk to me for one second?
Okay! Damn!
Troy? Is he your husband? Or a boyfriend?
No.
ThankQ!
Oh, stop that! God! Listen, I know you like me. I can tell. But you know what? A lot of guys like me. Not me, exactly. It's more like the legs or the butt or the hair. Or some combination of the above.
I think it's the eyes.
The eyes. Okay. An eyeman. Anyhow, it never works out. Okay? Not that you even need to know that! You look like crap, by the way. What have you been doing?
Watching television in color.
Hey, no kidding? In color?
Cross my heart and hope to die.
See, ya.
Why doesn't it never work out?
What?
Why does it never work out? You and...men?
Why?! Who the hell knows?!
...Okay.
It never works out because I'm into legs and butts and hair myself! That's why! So I wind up with guys who are very good looking, but even more shallow than I am, if you can picture that. Now, if you'll excuse me, I have to go find another lowpaying, demeaning job where some guy named Jerry keeps telling me how lousy his marriage is.
Why not go to work for me?
Doing what?
Selling all my baseball cards. And helping me buy enough food and supplies to fill several large trucks.
Food and supplies? Who for? Like starving people?
Well, they're not starving yet, but they need help.
How long would you need me?
Two weeks.
What's the pay?
What's fair?
I've got to make at least a thousand a week.
You got it! Wait here while I change.
Sure.
Why not buy them milk or something instead of Dr. Pepper?
They like Dr. Pepper.
Who are these people?
My Mom and Dad.
Very funny, smart ass.
Hey! Pipe tobacco! I'm going to need all of this! This is swell!
Wait! Wait!
What?
Well, another day, another dollar. Stop staring at me!!
Sorry.
Pick you up at eight tomorrow morning.
Hey, you know. I was thinking...
Night!
We'll have to rent a refrigerated truck for the beef and poultry.
It's your life. And, by the way, it's a dandy.
I guess we'll need another locker.
No problem. We'll just sell another baseball card.
You know, Eve  don't get mad, okay?   but, I'd just be lost without you.
Thank you.
And, um ...I guess... I guess you and I, uh...
Adam? Don't even think about it. Okay? I'm sorry. I know that sounds mean, but believe me, it would be meaner if I didn't say it. Okay?
Okay.
Now, let's take the truck back and get something to eat.
There's something else I would like you to help me with.
Name it.
Well, this is going to sound a little crazy.
Oh, I'm sure it will!
Then forget it.
No, no! I'm sorry! What is it?
This is for me.
Think of me as your genie. Just ask.
Well... Okay. I would like you to help me find a...wife.
A wife?
Yes.
What for?
Because I want to get married.
Why?!
I don't want to be alone.
You can be single and not alone. Marriage bites!
Bites what?
The big one!
It does?
Sure.
I didn't know that.
Everybody knows that. Ask my divorced sisters. Or ask my divorced mom and dad.
They're all divorced?
Everybody's divorced.
It didn't used to be that way.
I wouldn't know. What kind of wife are you looking for?
One who's not a mutant.
No dogs, huh? Okay.
And if possible, I'd like to marry someone from Pasadena.
When do you need her by?
Two weeks.
Well, I could probably get you laid in two weeks, but to locate a nonmutant wife from Pasadena...that could take some time.
That's what I was afraid of.
Could we talk about that a little later?
Of course.
Thank you.
Get out!
The engine is still running.
Now, get out!!
Yes, ma'am!
Stop that ma'am crap!
Sorry!
You almost got us killed!
I told you I've never driven before!
Never drive again!
You said it would be easy!
I was wrong!!
Is this your house?
Yes!
I like it.
Why, thank you! Very nice to have met you, Cliff! May I ask you a question?
He's a former boyfriend. We lived together for about six months. And yes, I'll admit it. I've still kind of got a thing for him. That's what you wanted to know, isn't it?
Actually,no. I was wondering why Cliff likes to wear another man's underpants.
What?!
Here you go. One champagne cocktail.
ThankQ!
I thought only hookers drank those things.
Well, I know Mom sure likes 'em!
Okay, let's see...I'm not promising anything. You okay?
Umhum.
I'm seeing...snow... lots of snow. Way up North. Are we getting hot?
Yes!
You live in...Alaska. The only way in or out of your place is by plane and... you've definitely come down here for food and supplies and... to find a wife!
Wow.
Yeah, right! That's where you'd go to find girls! Nome. He's gay, by the way.
Good for you.
Where's he gone?
He's gone to check your answers on his computer.
He has a computer?
Sure.
In the house?
No. We keep it in the backyard. Of course, in the house. It's in there.
May I please be excused?
Uh...yeah.
All right.
So, what are you seeing?
The what?
Wazoo! Try to listen. Whataya think? Surfer, grunge, hip hop, Euro trash?
The guy with the underpants!
That's boring!
About clothing?
Yeah.
Whatever you two want. If you've got the time, I've got the wazoo.
What about holding your right arm up like that all the time?
It's fine. Just give it a try. And for gosh sake, Eve, take your foot off the chair!
He's going to kill himself. Go skate out on the bike path! It's that way!
Okay!
Hey, Eve!
Have you ever heard the saying, "He hasn't got enough sense to come in out of the rain?"
Yep. You know, my father  who is a scientist  says that everything is a miracle. Everything. Until recently I wasn 't sure what he meant by that.
Yeah? No kidding. Listen, you still want to go girl hunting tonight?
I certainly do!
Okay. But you know, this business of finding you a wife  it's kind of ridiculous, don't you think?
No it's not!
Yes it is. A girlfriend maybe. But a wife? I mean...
Then just help me find a girlfriend! That's all I ask. I'll give you every single card I've got left!
Hey, screw you! Okay? You think I'm just somebody you can buy off! Listen, let me tell you something
Would you do it just because you're my friend? My very best friend.
Well...yeah. Okay.
My goodness gracious! This place is something!
Look unimpressed.
No! Not crazy!
Do I look crazy?
Yes!
Quit showing off! We're here on business!
Goodbye!
I thought I was here to meet women.
Not that one!
I like her.
And don't be so obvious!
What have you ordered?
It's a Rob Roy. A very popular drink, I'm told.
What about her?
No way.
Why?! I think she's very attractive.
Adam! She's got bitch written all over her! You do know what "bitch" means, don't you?
Yes, I have a dictionary. But I can't understand for the life of me why you would call her that! Or why Cliff would say that about you.
Because we're bitches! Look at her! Look at the expression on her face! The walk, the jewelry, the fingernails. Please!
How 'bout this one?
Okay. I like that.
Yeah, sweet. That's a nice way of putting it.
What do I say to Miss Sweet when I meet her?
Really?
Yes, really! Basically, they want what they think they can't have. Same with guys. That's why everybody is walking around here sending off "you can't have me" signals!
That's ridiculous.
Maybe. But that's how it works.
Yeah. Could be. Go say hello, Romeo. Looks like a healthy nonmutant to me.
Okay. All right. And what do I say?
Say something surprising. And funny. Lie, if need be.
What?
Romeo and Juliet. I cried at the end.
Did you?
You wanted to see me!
You're not from Alaska! Where'd you learn to dance like that?! And there are no starving people, are there?!
Why are you suddenly so mad at me?
Don't change the subject! I want you to tell me the truth about yourself.
I've never lied to you. I've maybe let you believe things that you wanted to believe, but I've never lied.
You think I'm some sort of sap?! Don't you?!
No. I admire you. I...I fell in love with you the first time I saw you. I did. I think that you are the most
I want to know exactly who you are and what you're really up to!
All right. Let me tell you the whole thing. In 1962
Adam?!
I'm sorry.
I don't blame you!
Eve, I'm sorry.
I'm leaving, too.
But, Eve, I would
And tomorrow maybe Troy will help you outbecause I quit! This is ridiculous! You're ridiculous! I'm ridiculous!
Eve?!
Scare me, why don't you?!!? You stupid son of a bitch!!!
I'm really sorry!
What in the hell are you doing here!! You're supposed to be over on San Vicente Boulevard having unsafe sex with that slut Sophie!!
I know...and I'm really sorry.
Well, you should be! Thanks to you, my heart is in my neck!
What?
Goodnight!
Eve, if you'll let me, I can 
Look! I'm limping! How attractive is that?! What if this is for life?!
I know first aid!
Well, you had better!!
There.
Thanks.
I went to Sophie's and she was very hospitable.
Is that what you call it?
But it just wasn't where I wanted to be so I left as politely as I could and found a taxi. But I asked the driver to drop me here instead of at the hotel. There's a song Mister Como sings called "On the Street Where You Live." You know it?
Sing it to me.
"All at once am Iseveral stories high knowing I'mon the street where you live." It's about a young man who is overjoyed just to be standing in front of the house of the person he loves.
Adam...dumb question, but humor me. Have you ever had sex before?
No.
Uhhuh. Adam?
Yes, Eve?
I want you to go back to the hotel now. I'll call you a cab.
Of course. I shouldn't be over here at this hour.
That's right. And I'll see you in the morning in the lobby. Do you mind waiting outside for the taxi?
Not at all. And Eve thank you for tonight...and for the kiss. My first.
My pleasure.
It was at least as good as the sky.
Really? Okay!
And I think better than the ocean. I'm serious!
Neat. Goodnight!
Hi, Eve!
Hi, Adam. This is, uh....
Adam....you should go with Dr. Aron. It's the best thing. The best thing for you. I promise.
...All right, Eve. If you say so.
...I do.
Could I please just go home? I was lost, but this morning I found home and I promise not to bother any of you ever again.
No.
See! I can't tell them that! I can't ever let them know. It makes their life..well, frankly... a joke. I can't let that happen. You understand?
We can make this work, Adam! Believe me! I'm very good at making things work!
My mother's like that.
How do you do?
I do fine, Adam. How 'bout yourself? You doin' any good?
But I do miss that green sport coat of yours.
Thank you very much. But, Cliff, that's my seat. And I was just
How 'bout a drink at the bar?
Please excuse this interruption.
Oh, brother...
Eve, I don't mean to be rude, and please excuse me Cliff, but Eve, isn't Cliff just a butt with hair?
What?!
I'm sorry, and legs. Legs, butt and hair. Well, isn't he? And shallow, as well?
Shallow? I'm shallow?!
Cliff, I must warn you. I know how to defend myself.
Do ya?
Maybe we shouldn't fight at all. Fighting is pretty immature.
It certainly is. I agree with you completely.
Eve? I'm leaving.
I'm Nina Aron, Adam.
How do you do?
Very well, thank you. I'm with the County Family Services Department. Eve tells me you've been living in a bomb shelter most of your life.
Fallout shelter. There's a difference.
Adam, I'd like to introduce you to my associate  Mr. Brown.
We want you to come with us so we can talk some more about your experiences.
Come where?
My office.
For how long?
Well, that depends...
I thank you very much for the invitation, but I'm quite busy today. Perhaps I could see you tomorrow.
Let's go talk first, Adam.
Yes, ma'am.
The key to my hotel room! I want you to have my baseball cards! And please be sure to pay my bill!
Young man, stop right there!
Hi!
Yes?
I was wondering if you might help me. I...I seem to have lost my Congressional Medal of Honor somewhere around here.
Oh, now, that's a great one!
You like it?
Bravo!
ThankQ!
This is my new friend...
I'm Adam Webber.
He's really funny!
We work on Rodeo Drive. But we're both professional dancers.
Really?
You're kidding!
No, I'm not! My mom taught me.
Your mom was a dancer?
She is a dancer! And a lovely one! You would like her very much! Shall we dance?
Sure.
How come you were in my truck?
I was tired and didn't have any place to go.
What's your name?
Pris.
Mine's J.F. Sebastian.
Hi.
You want to go home?
I don't have one.
Oh.
Where are your folks?
They left.
What about friends?
I have some, but I have to find out where they are staying.
We scared each other pretty good didn't we?
We sure did.
I'm hungry, J.F.
I've got stuff. If you wanna go to my place?
I was hoping you'd say that.
Whatcha doin'?
You scared me.
You look... better.
Just better.
Beautiful.
Thanks.
And you live in this building all by yourself?
Yeah, I live here pretty much alone right now...
Twenty.
What's your problem?
Methuselah Syndrome.
What's that?
My glands. They grow old too fast.
Is that why you're still here?
Yes. I couldn't pass the test.
Ah, you get hold of your friends?
As a matter of fact I did. They've got some work to do tonight, but they're gonna come tomorrow.
Good.
Sebastian doesn't like to go out too much.
I keep a lot of provisions right here.
What makes you think so?
You're all so perfect.
I kinda get nervous when I take tests.
Don't move.
Sorry.
Already had I.Q. test this year  but I don't think I never had a...
Reaction time is a factor in this, so please pay attention. Answer quickly as you can.
You're in a desert, walking along in the sand when all of a sudden you look down and see a...
What one?
What?
What desert?
Doesn't make any difference what desert  it's completely hypothetical.
But how come I'd be there?
Maybe you're fed up, maybe you want to be by yourself  who knows. So you look down and see a tortoise. It's crawling towards you...
A tortoise. What's that?
Know what a turtle is?
Of course.
Same thing.
I never seen a turtle.
But I understand what you mean.
You reach down and flip the tortoise over on its back, Leon.
Whatcha mean, I'm not helping?
I mean you're not helping! Why is that, Leon?
Let's keep our eyes on the road, Deckard.
Sorry.
We're going to have to start the sequence again if you don't stay with me, Deckard. Concentrate.
How do you know I'm not?
You're not responding to the stimulus. I can see right here, I'm not getting a reading.
I'm tired of this.
Almost through.
Thanks.
Black?
Please.
Is this to be an empathy test?
Yes.
Capillary dilation of the socalled blush response? Plus fluctuation of the pupil, plus involuntary dilation of the iris?
May I ask a personal question?
Go ahead.
Have you ever retired a human by mistake?
No.
But in your profession that is a risk.
Nothing is infallible, but so far the VoightKampff scale bas been foolproof.
Like you said, Mr. Deckard, a machine can be a hazard. The VoightKampff scale is a machine, isn't it?
One that relies on human interpretation. Where's the subject?
Sitting next to you.
Well?
If she is, the machine works.
The machine works. She is.
How many questions did it take?
Thirteen.
She didn't know?
Memory implant. She was programmed. But I think she has transcended her conditioning. I think she was beginning to suspect.
How many questions does it usually take, Mr. Deckard?
Five, maybe six.
And how is it one man will be able to cover so much ground?
Discreetly.
All pertinent information is being fed into your departmental computer, an Esper 231  I believe  and a photo overlay packet is being produced.
Where the hell you been?
You know where I been. I been on vacation.
Next time you go on vacation, do me a favor, let us know where it is.
What's up?
Holden got hit.
Bad?
Severed spine. You'd better get in here. Bryant's waiting for you.
I'll see you in a minute.
It seems your department doesn't believe out new unit is to the public benefit.
A humanoid robot is like any other machine, it can be a benefit or a hazard. If it's a benefit, it's not our problem.
But because your department can't do an adequate job in detecting the miniscule number at large, it's a problem. Correct, Mr. Deckard?
It's artificial?
Of course not.
Are you apprehensive?
Why should I be?
For the responsibility of your power. Being a police bureaucrat, you've got more than your share.
I wouldn't accept it. Also, I'd report the person who gave it to me to the police.
You have a little boy. He shows you his butterfly collection, plus the killing jar.
I'd take him to the doctor.
You're watching T.V. and suddenly you notice a wasp crawling on your wrist.
I'd kill it.
In a magazine you come across a fullpage photo of a nude girl.
Is this testing whether I'm an android or a lesbian?
You show the picture to your husband. He likes it and hangs it on the wall. The girl is lying on a bearskin rug.
You become pregnant by a man who runs off with your best friend, and you decide to get an abortion.
I'd never get an abortion.
Why not?
That would be murder, Mr. Deckard.
In your opinion.
It would be my child.
Sounds like you speaks from experience.
Last question. You're watching an old movie. It shows a banquet in progress, the guests are enjoying raw oysters.
Ugh.
Is there anything else?
I know you think it complicates your work, but I'm here to help.
I've already got more help than I need.
I think you need more help than you've got.
There's two reasons a man rejects help. Either because he's so good at what he does he doesn't think he needs it, or he's so insecure he can't admit it.
Sounds like I'm an asshole either way, but the answer is still no.
Two of us might be more effective than one.
I work alone.
You use your equipment, don't you?
So?
So, I'm a piece of equipment. Use me.
Do I make you nervous?
Yeah.
I'm sorry.
I can imagine.
Can you? I couldn't.
They probably want to find out when they were made.
Right.
Don't just stand there looking at me. It's not polite.
What do you want me to do?
Sit.
You ever take a bath with a man before?
There's a lot I haven't done with a man before.
I told you I'd come back.
You did?
You didn't hear me. You were sleeping.
Who is this?
Me and my dad.
Where is he?
Dead.
Oh.
How come you're not on the job?
I am. Part of my job is to sit on a couch and try and figure things out.
How are you doing?
Not too good.
What do people do in the afternoon?
If they are smart, they take naps.
Do you dream?
Yeah. Sometimes.
I wish I could.
Did you cry when your father died?
Yeah.
That's another thing I can't do.
Nobody is freer than when he dreams. I read that.
It wasn't very good last night, was it?
I don't know, I have nothing to compare it to. I guess I thought there was something more to it.
What?
I don't know... I think I missed something.
Like?
I'm not sure. Is there a secret?
When was the last time you cleaned this place?
Hmmm?
Have you ever cleaned your apartment?
Don't be fooled by appearances.
It appears to be dirty  why don't you get somebody?
They could clean around the arrangement.
I don't like people snooping around my stuff.
But if I don't plug it in how can I...
Never mind the plug, just go through the motions.
But then how can you...
I don't like the noise. Just practice. Practice makes perfect.
This feels stupid.
Good for a smart girl to feel stupid. Part of your education.
You're sick, Deckard.
I never felt better.
Have you ever known anybody a long time?
You mean a woman?
Uhhuh.
What's a long time?
Ten years.
Nope. Nobody could stand me that long.
Why do you call it retire, why don't you call it murder?
Because it's not.
Don't you think anything that can suffer deserves to be considered?
Andies only simulate suffering  if they're programmed for it.
Do you think I simulated what happened between us?
No, I don't.
Don't leave here. Don't open the door, don't answer the phone.
What difference will it make?
Just wait here.
You know what I think?
What?
That some of the folks around here are more programmed then me.
Yeah?
I'm with the American Federation of Variety Artists...
There's been reports of management sexually abusing the artists in this place.
I don't know nothing about it.
You haven't felt yourself to be exploited by the management in any way?
How do you mean 'exploited'?
Like to get this position. Did you or were you asked to do anything lewd or unsavory or otherwise repulsive to your person?
Are you for real?
Oh, yeah. You'd be surprised what goes on around here. I'd like to check the dressing room if I could.
What the fuck for?
For holes.
It that mother real?
Of course he's not real. You think I'd be working here if I could afford a real snake?
It's a good job.
You mean the snake.
The best.
Does it eat?
Come on.
Jeezus!
Sorry.
Hey! Do your job but don't wreck mine, huh?
You'd be surprised what a guy'll go through to get a glimpse of a beautiful body.
I bet I would.
Little dirty holes the bastards drill in the wall so they can watch a lady undress.
Me.
And who do I go to about you?
Taffey Lewis?
Yes?
Can I come in?
I'd like you to take a look at these pictures.
Of course.
You see I lost my contacts a couple of days ago around here somewhere and my sight is a little... What am I supposed to be looking for?
Do you recognize any of them?
This one looks familiar, but I don't know. Naw. There's one came in today looks a little like this one but...
What did she want?
Who?
The girl that doesn't look like that girl.
Nothing. She wanted to know about suck night.
What night?
I didn't know if I wanted to handle her  I already got a snake act. But my partner goes down there to the Opera House on suck night to book the good ones.
What's suck night?
That's what we call in the trade, audition freefor alls and most of it sucks. Bit I don't think that's her.
You talking about the Opera House on the Main?
Book the good ones for where?
Lots of places. The tours, the clubs, the Silicone shows, private parties.
What shows?
Silicone Valley. Lots of these science guys never leave that place. We book two shows a month in there. Those big time techs and bio guys might be real high zoners up here, but when it comes to the arts, they like it loud and lewd.
Nerves of steel.
No rust?
I didn't say that. Your motivity rate checked out a little slower than last time.
Meaning?
Meaning you don't run as fast as you used to.
During the road test...
Yeah?
Your mind kept wandering. That bothered me.
Huh huh.
Considering the nature of your work, that could be unhealthy.
True.
But you haven't put in for emigration.
Nope.
You're going to be over the limit.
Listen, I could make you a long list of complaints about this fucken city but I still rather be here than up there.
What if you change your mind?
They'll change the limit before I change my mind.
You sure?
Never been more sure of anything in my life.
Why didn't you go?
Too old.
But if you could?
My job is here.
Me too.
I'm great. I mean, I know I'm not really great, but I feel just great. How you like my new suit?
Well, you don't have to worry about getting it wrinkled.
Don't make me laugh. It makes me pee.
Sorry.
Hey, it's okay. I like to pee. So how are you doing?
I'm doing okay.
From what I hear you're doing great. Bryant tells me you're going like a god damn oneman army. Making a lot of money, huh?
Yeah. But that's what I wanted to talk to you about.
Money?
No. I got a problem.
Let's hear it.
I think I'm starting to empathize with these Nexussixes.
What's that?
I'm taking a piss.
Love is just another name for sex. Love is sexy and sex is lovely  I don't care what you call it, an android can't have it.
These aren't just...
I know what they are, Deck  Look, maybe they can pretend to feel, but far as the raw, hot emotions of the old heart  no way.
I think I have no money.
It's okay. Forget it.
But I would like to buy you drink.
I'll but you one. What'll you have?
Vodka!
Shot of vodka, please.
Thank you very much.
My pleasure.
Prosit.
Prosit.
You want to see my friends?
Sorry, don't have the time.
No problem.
Those cockroaches?
Ya.
How long you had these guys?
Two months. But this one is not guy. It is girl. His girl.
Prosit.
Prosit.
You like to kiss her goodbye.
No thanks.
I like you.
I like you too.
One more, eh?
I gotta piss.
How old am I?
I don't know.
My birthday is April 10, 2015. How long do I live?
Four years.
Machines can be helpful sometimes, but they can also be a pain in the ass. Ask for a trace on a forger and you might wind up at a steel mill. I don't mind a bumsteer once in a while  it's their personalities that usually get me. Somebody once said that man makes machines in his own image. If that's true, whoever made Esper should have been shot.
This is Esper and I'm ready. Go ahead please.
You equipped for random questions?
Why, yes, of course.
You start.
The five in question are third generation Nexus Sixes, constructed of skinflesh culture, selected enogenic transfer conversion capable of selfperpetuating thought, paraphysical abilities and developed for emigration program. Are you with me?
How do I stop one?
Unlike a five, they can sustain massive traumas to several parts of the body without debilitating another. Sever a leg and it will perform quicker on the remaining leg than the fastest man can run,
Okay, but...
I'm coming to that. Vulnerable zone is the base of the skull, the occipital bone. A direct hit is a positive retirement.
Here's something you might find interesting. They have been built to emulate the human in every way except in its emotional spectrum. However, after a period of time it is only logical that such a 'mechanism' would create its own emotional responses, hate, love, fear, anger, envy.
I know all that.
What about a summary then.
I think we're through for the night.
Yes?
Do you have something against science?
Not if it works.
And what in your estimation works?
The umbrella.
Four years. Which would make her termination date...
Never mind. Do they have that knowledge?
Longevity is classified. No.
Okay, gimme a rundown on the three females.
Nexus designated Mary: incept November 1 2017, domestic conditioning non competitive, trained for day care position.
Next.
Nexus designated Pris: incept data December 13 2017, competitive, programmed to provide pleasure for long term spacers.
Number three.
Nexus designated Zhora: incept June 13th 2017, athletic conditioning, highly competitive, special abilities in the entertainment field.
It's gotta be right for my customer.
Your customer, eh?
Well, when do you get paid?
Soon as I finish the job.
When might that be?
Day after tomorrow.
Oh! Day after tomorrow.
Six, huh?
Five. Three nights ago one of them managed to break into the Tyrell Corporation. Killed two guards and got as far as the Genetic Sector before he got fried going through an electro field.
What was he after?
There wasn't much left of him, so we can't be sure. But bio chemical data and morphology records of the Nexus6 were reported missing. Going on the possibility they might try to infiltrate we send Holden in to run VoightKampff tests on the new employees. Guess he found himself one.
You got a machine on it yet?
We're using Esper  a 231  that picked up Holden's alarm. Its guess is that all five are in the city.
Where do we start?
The Tyrell Corporation has a demo model. Check it out on the VoightKampff. There's a chance the Nexus6 is beyond out ability to detect. If that's the case, everybody's up shit creek.
What was the cover on the one that got Holden?
Industrial refuse.
Garbage man?
Yeah.
Bryant here. Regarding the rundown you requested on job applicants, Esper's concluded that the only irregular category that Tyrell's got is the entertainment section. You better get on it.
I was just about to have my dinner.
If you hurry you'll get back before it gets cold. I got a spinner on your roof in five minutes. Good luck.
She was gonna get away.
Then let her get away. I thought you were a pro  you're supposed to be a fuckin' tracker!
I didn't like her.
You didn't like her!?
Look, go home. Get some rest. Take an aspirin.
Yeah.
Yeah.
This is Bryant. Are you alone?
Yeah.
She's not with you?
Who.
Take a number. Canapt 1700, tenth floor, Villa Vita District, Olympia South.
Got it.
Okay, here it is. Eldon Tyrell, his family and half his staff were just massacred. The cat is about to get out of the bag. Pressure is definitely on. The Nexus program is terminated. When you finish there, locate Nexus designated Rachael and retire.
If you don't, we will. It has to be total, Deckard. That's an order from as high as it comes. Got it?
Yeah. I got it.
Go.
What's going on down there?
He's not ready yet.
When?
Tomorrow, he says.
This is my Uncle Roy, Sebastian.
Hello, glad to meet you.
Then we're stupid and we'll die.
Not if everybody is doing their job here at home. How are things at home?
I think, therefore I am.
Very good, Pris. Now show him why.
I want to do it.
Okay, but don't kill him. Save a little for everybody. A masterpiece.
I like a man who stays put. An admirable thing to be able to sustain yourself in these times. You live here all by yourself, do you?
Well, no, not really. There's Mr. Deetchum, he's the watchman, he lives on the first floor.
How about breakfast, I was just going to make some.
If it wouldn't be too much of a bother... a little bite to eat would be...
Oh, no bother, I'd be glad to.
Well, actually
Why are you staring at us?
You're just all so... so different.
What, Sebastian?
You're androids.
What generation are you?
Nexus  6.
Show me something?
Like what?
Like...
We have a lot in common.
You mean that you can't come here and I can't go there?
Not only that, but we have smiliar problems. Accelerated decrepitude. But we don't want to die quite yet.
Of course not.
You could help us.
I don't know much about biomechanics, Roy. I wish I did, but you're out of my league.
If we don't find help soon, Pris hasn't got long to live.
What about your friend, the man who owns this building?
Dr. Tyrell?
He's not really my friend. I just do a job for him now and then.
Tyrell could help us, Sebastian.
He could?
His company made us.
I'd be happy to mention it to him.
Be better if I could talk to him in person. But he's not an easy man to get to.
No.
When do you deliver your project?
This afternoon.
You're our best and only friend.
Thank you.
Where are you going, Sebastian?
Just thought I'd...
No, you stay here with us. Out last night together.
The name is Batty. Roy Batty.
Oh?
Yeah. It might be better if we talk in private, Sebastian. Why don't you go home.
Here's your check, my boy. Thank you.
I'm surprised you didn't come to me sooner.
It's not an easy thing to meet your maker.
And what can he do for you?
Can the maker repair what he makes?
Would you like to be modified?
Had in mind something a little more radical.
What's the problem?
Death.
I'm afraid that's a little out of my...
I want more life, fucker.
Come here.
The facts of life. I'll be blunt. To make an alteration in the evolvement of an organic life system, at least by men, makers or not, it fatal. A coding sequence can't be revised once it's established.
Why?
Because by the second day of incubation any cells that have undergone reversion mutation give rise to revertant colonies  like rats leaving a sinking ship. The ship sinks.
What about E.M.S. recombination?
We've already tried it  ethyl methane sulfonate is an alkylating agent and a potent mutagen  it creates a virus so lethal the subject was destroyed before we left the table.
Then a repressor protein that blocks the operating cells.
Wouldn't obstruct replication, but it does give rise to an error in replication, so that the newly formed DNA strand carries a mutation and you're got a virus again... but all this is academic  you are made as good as we could make you.
But not to last.
Put it this way. Rolls Royces are made to last  as least they were. But I'm afraid you're a Ferrari. A high strung racing car  built to win, not to last.
Also you're too valuable to experiment with.
I am?
I've done some questionable things.
Also extraordinary things.
Nothing the God of biomechanics wouldn't let you in heaven for.
Can't thank you enough, Mr. Sebastian. If you hadn't come along...
We were worried to death. It's awfully kind of you.
We're not used to the big city. Where we come from it's not so easy to get lost.
You certainly have a nice place here.
Well stocked.
He knows what he's doing.
If he won't cooperate?
Mr. Sebastian is a host who wants to be appreciated. We'll appreciate him and he'll cooperate.
I'm sure glad you found us, Sebastian. What do you think, Mary?
I don't think there is another human being in this whole world who would have helped us.
Pris?
Let's go while there is still time.
Where?
Anywhere.
What's the point?
Not to be trapped.
You underestimate the trap, Mary.
One man. He must be good.
Then go get him.
That wouldn't be very sporting.
Seven years work by the finest engraver. Mass produced, sequentially numbered. The best there has ever been, Mr. Conklin.
I'm impressed. But let's use the short form. I'm looking for 
 Kobo... I know. He killed two of my partners. One in New York, one at the printing plant.
I took Kobo from the street. I gave him a home, a future... But my ways were too slow for him... I served seven years in prison for my boss when I was a young man. Kobo wouldn't serve seven minutes for his Oyabun. He was supposed to take over this syndicate when I retired.
I want him.
He'll be dealt with.
Our associates in New York were close to closing a deal with us.
The families who control the casinos?
Yes. Unlike our syndicates, your criminals don't understand the words 'honor' and 'duty'... We can't afford not to deal with them.
Imagine if your families could pay their gambling and drug debts with perfect counterfeit bought for cents on the dollar.
The Feds would be onto you in a month.
Not with these bills. And even if it only took them six months, do you know what our profit margin would be?
Why tell me this?
The other plate is currently in New York, in the hands of Kobo's man. Find it for me.
You trust me?
I'll pay you.
With these?
Swiss bank deposit. Gold bullion. Whatever you want. You know the city and the police.
If I say no?
You're smarter than Kobo. You know the price of deceit. Think about it.
I don't have to.
Good.
He'll find out you took me. I'm unprotected. He'll kill us. All of us. You don't stand a chance.
That wasn't our deal.
You want him dead too.
After a court convicts him. He belongs to me.
You lost a man we wanted for some time. It was very incompetent on your part, officer.
Incompetent is letting people waltz through a secure area wearing your uniforms, carrying official documents.
I want a gun.
It is not allowed.
We're police officers.
You're foreigners.
Work with me. I want your best detective.
Hey, inspector, I don't intend to take the rap for this.
Do you know what this is?
Could you fill me in?
Why don't you ask your chief detective?
Because I want you to tell me.
The young are eating the old, something that usually doesn't happen here.
Can we skip the poetry, inspector?
What's this?
Your visa has expired. Be on a plane in twentyfour hours or you will be deported.
While you were hanging out at the visa office, we found the sonofa bitch.
Look.
Hey...! HEY, I'M TALKING TO YOU, INSPECTOR!
Twentyfour hours, detective.
Your plane leaves at six. Two officers will escort you.
For God's sake, Ohashi, I need your help. Let me out of here!
You had my help, detective.
If anything happens to her while I'm here 
 Do you know where she is, detective? Do you know how to find her? Even where to start? We will find them.
I have to get to Sugai.
Goodbye, officer.
How big a package we talking about?
This by this...
Dope?
Not in that company.
The old man was a Japanese paper manufacturer. Hotel room and rental car were full of it.
One guy do all the damage?
Yeah.
Thought you knew your way around dark alleys, detective.
Doesn't speak a word of English. And he won't speak Japanese either. No papers. The Japanese embassy is very interested.
Why?
He's wanted in Japan. They want him first. Then we can have him.
What?
You and Charlie are taking the Jap home, tonight.
What...? What if I say no?
Check your gun before you leave. They're not allowed in Japan. It's a nice, safe country.
Why me?
They said send a detective if I could spare one. I can always spare you.
It's not your job.
He was my partner.
They're blaming it on you. Christ, Conklin, you didn't even tell me you lost the prisoner!
I planned on catching him, Captain.
How? You don't know the place. You don't know the language. Get on the plane.
He killed a police officer.
Your plane's at nine a.m. Be on it. That's orders. Period.
... Remember, counterfeiting is the Feds. They'll be all over Abolofia's place. Stick tight. You I.D. the other plate, he does real time.
Right.
Keep the change.
I'm taking you back.
Ugly... A couple of thousand years they've been bound by these little rules. Looking in. Always afraid. Ugly little lives...
Save it, I already took the tour.
You are a lucky man. Where you come from a man can stand out. It's expected. Here a man is made to look a fool for standing out.
I like your friend, Joyce. You're lucky.
Guess I'm on a roll.
She's such a long way home for you.
Time, I've got plenty of.
This is my stop.
I'm amused.
Don't be.
Sugai won't give it to me, you know that.
Then take it from him.
Don't give him any more.
He gets as much as he wants.
Ich said you left.
There was a change in plans.
Dead gaiijin's are big news.
Gaiijin?
An outside person. A foreigner. A barbarian. You, me. More you.
I could use some help. Show me around. I'll pay you for your time.
I don't give tours.
You can count on the truth from people who don't like you.
You have a helluva way of asking for help.
You have a helluva way of answering.
Look, you need Ich. I've been here five years and I still can't read all the street signs.
Maybe I'm a quicker learner.
I don't think so.
She ever pull down her shades?
Sure, but then I just pull out the photos.
Don't be an ass.
He's on duty.
I paid for that.
You know where I can get a decent cup of coffee this time of night? I'm buying.
Somebody must be suffering somewhere, you're being so nice.
I need your help, Joyce.
Where's Ich?
Unavailable.
I've heard of Sugai. I've also heard of the emperor. They're both national treasures. One's a hood.
I need someone to translate for me.
My Japanese isn't that hot... Besides, you'll never get in.
It's my last shot. I have to be on a plane home tomorrow night.
And I'm supposed to care?
You could fake it.
You're wrong to sell Ich short.
He drinks.
He's got a reason.
Where's the wife?
You met her.
I'd invite you up but I know you'd hate the incense. I chant.
What do you chant?
'Nam oyo ranged kyo.' You think it's dumb of course.
Not if it works. I'll meet you at the train?
I don't remember saying yes.
I don't remember you saying no.
They want your autograph.
Who am I supposed to be?
This little guy thinks you're Robert Redford... the other one thinks you're Charles Bronson...
Tell them I'm not.
We're in?
The cheese...
You'll get Ich killed.
No one's keeping him here.
Bullshit, Nick. And don't tell me this is all just about Charlie. It's not.
Why would you care?
I still think you're a bastard.
What if I chant?
Wouldn't help. Watch out for Ich.
Can't make you change your mind?
Last time you asked me to come along I nearly got a hole in my head.
Might be different in New York.
Maybe. If I come visit, we can find out.
I'd like that.
Where do we start looking for this guy?
Where would you look for the mafia?
Where're you going, Ichiro?
The mayor's office, under the bed, the back room at Lombardi's. And call me Ich.
"Goodness, gracious, great balls of fire." To the killer. Jerry Lee Lewis.
Jerry Lee Lewis, Elvis, Dinky Doo And The Don't's. Let's book, Charlie. If he starts on Motown, we'll be here all night.
No, this is the place for the young Yakuza.
That's what you said in the last three piss pots.
... We got to keep looking. Track him down! Great balls of fire!
What's the problem here?
Nick!
Give us a break...
It's Ichiro. Ich.
Leave the rice cake outside and go home!
You know, Inspector, you take shit once, you take shit forever.
I don't deserve Ohashi's respect.
Why the hell not?
I don't, that's all.
What happened?
They made you leave your hotel... ... you caused a disturbance.
It may be too soon to talk about it. When someone we care for dies we... ... keep something of their's. A tie, a pen.
Why weren't you at the platform?
I couldn't keep up. My shame is complete.
You must leave?
Yeah...
I'll get him for you, Nick.
I've continued working on the case!
I can see that.
How'd you get this?
I stole them.
Know her?
We can ask someone I used to work with. A criminal. Someone I pay money to...
A snitch?
What's he saying?
He says they're very nice. He wants to know if you have anymore.
Nick, no one's seen Kobo in three days. He might not even be in Tokyo.
Only one way to find out... Get her up in the morning and put her to bed at night.
You said you could keep up with her! 'No problem, Nicksan.'
No. Don't say anything. Don't do anything, and for Christ's sake, don't apologize!
Nick...
What'd I tell you?
There she is!
Did I say that?
You toler  yes, tolerate me.
Are we getting married?
You're doing fine, Ich. Now drop it, okay?
Sure.
Nick...
If you're gonna give me a hard time, wait outside.
Work, lunch, groceries, laundry... Fabulous...
Four goddamn days. This is going nowhere...
Chikuwa, Hampen, Kobu, Konnayaku, Ganmodoki 
Ichiro 
Broiled fish paste cake, Kelp roll, soybean curd, devils tongue 
Smells like Bayonne at low tide.
Yakuza.
Good. Very good...
She disappeared... shit!
You were too far behind.
You can't come in. They don't want 
Gaiijin.
I'll check it out.
If I smell one drop of Scotch on your breath, my friend 
You can trust me.
I'm not drunk...
We're through. I mean it. This is the end of the line, Matsumoto.
Nick 
Shutup.
... A Godfather. His man was killed at the printing plant.
I want to yank Kobo.
Not without a small army, Nicklaus san.
Ich, my name is Nick. Not Nicklaus, not Nicklaussan, not Nicksan. Nick.
San is an honorable title.
Nick!
A few minutes faster, we might've nailed him.
Where does this Sugai live?
A resort city, Beppu.
I want to go talk to him.
What...? Why?
Because he knows how to get to our man.
He'll never speak to a Gaiijin.
I'll be a nice Gaiijin.
It's very small.
Big enough.
It's illegal, Nick.
It's a new deal. ... coming with me tomorrow?
Sugai's not going to be impressed with your gun, Nick. No. I won't put myself in danger for you anymore.
What's in the box?
For Sugai. Caviar, French cheese, ham... If you come to apologize for interrupting his meeting, Sugai may feel obligated to see you.
So I bring some cheese?
No...
Let's go. Him first.
Nick, you can't do this.
It's done. You don't have to come.
Grab the keys, Ich, and get inside.
No.
Not now, man, okay, not now. Work with me.
Start it.
I can't...
Just one, compadre... Kampai.
Kampai.
You did great, Ichiro.
I called Ohashi, he'll be waiting. I like him waiting.
I was ready to have your ass for taking off on me.
I followed them. An hour from the train station.
How many men?
I couldn't tell.
Joyce?
I don't know.
We need the plate to negotiate with.
Someone attacked him.
Now we've got nothing to negotiate with.
Thank you. You have one?
A wife. She left.
I'm sorry.
Me too.
What's that for?
Luck.
You know, Nick, we can't lose.
Why's that?
Because we're the biggest things to hit this town since Godzilla.
You all right?
Yes...
Call for help.
Louder, pal, louder.
Joyce, give the assistant Chief Inspector a drink, would you?
Think we'll get him, Nick?
We can't lose.
How can you be so sure?
Short shift?
Yeah... I came to save you. If you're hopeless, I'll pull the plug.
It's getting too cold even for me, Nick.
Connie...
All right, how's the new partner?
High spirits, desire, commitment.
You'll take care of that.
Give me a break, would you?
If you give me one.
Are you expecting anyone?
I wasn't expecting you.
Squid?
Pussy, ass, soft personnel.
Joyce can be nice.
What'd she say?
That I should let you pay for the drinks. Kampai.
You cool, Ich?
Cool?
You all right? You okay?
What does Ichiro mean, anyway?
What does Charlie mean?
Hey, all right.
I think she got to you, pappy.
You want a popsicle, go to Good Humor. And don't call me 'pappy.'
Still, you gotta wonder how she'd look in handcuffs.
... It's not like you were slow or anything... I think you did just fine. I think you did great.
Thanks.
Hey, hey, where you goin'?
Home.
Wait up. You know the guy who did the Weismuller through the window 
 Cavello. Ronnie Cavello.
He works for Frank Abolofia. Atlantic City. Casinos.
So why dive through the glass for a nickel and dime bust?
What's this?
Let go...
Backup.
Get rid of it.
Why?
It's not regulation. And the only way you're gonna stop anybody with it is to show it to him, and while he's laughing, you can shove it down his throat.
I'll get rid of it when you get rid of the eggbeater.
Nick, let's go hunting. Bag Cavello.
Charlie...
... I found the goombah... Cavello. He's 
 I should tear your head off.
Whoa, I knew you were going to say that. I absolutely anticipated that, Nick. But I said to myself, Charlie, Charlie, we can move up on this, so go find Nicklaus... He'll be pissed for a moment, but then it'll dawn on him 
 Hey, I got a better chance of being hit by a bus then moving up.
What are they doing now?
Eating Scungilli, just like the last time you asked.
Who do you think the Jap is?
Maybe Cavello's buying a Subaru. How would I know?
I don't blame you for being sore. It'll pass when we bag him.
Charlie, don't do anything. Promise me?
What?
Frank Abolofia.
The Wolf?
Some party.
Maybe we should do something?
Charlie, take your gum, stick it under your ass and keep it warm.
What are you doing?
Saving your life.
... Nick, you're the one that's always saying you never go anywhere.
I was thinking the Poconos, Charlie. Maybe Vegas.
What are you missing? Riding your motorcycle to the nurse's house. That shit is sadder than Ethiopia.
Beats forty hours on a plane.
They say we got to turn around and come right back. That's what they say. I got a plan.
I call, right? I say I got the dreaded thirty sixhour Asian shits from some raw clam and we stretch it into three days. You and I become a driving force on the local Geisha scene.
Not a prayer.
Hey, come on, big guy like you, cop from New York. You're gonna be the biggest thing to hit town since Godzilla.
What'd you say?
Where is the subway station, please.
Nick... You up?
No.
Nick, have I been a good partner?
Number five with a bullet.
I just want you to know... I mean anybody who says you ever took has got to deal with me.
Go to sleep, Charlie.
You didn't take, did you...? You hear things.
I worked the three nine in Queens, Charlie.
I didn't know.
The lieutenant was on the pad along with the rest of the squad. I was new, didn't know shit. When the feathers flew, I got called in front of the special prosecutor. It's on the top of my personnel file. They think I'm dirty or I cut a deal. Doesn't leave you with a lot of friends either way.
Givin' you a book is like givin' a baby a gun.
Hey, when in Rome 
In Rome, I'll bow.
Let's go.
Nick, we can't just 
I said let's go, Charlie.
... Detective Ichiro Matsumoto. Hey, we're getting Mr. Moto on our side.
Let's grab some food.
First decent idea you've had.
This should be it...
You said that in the last two places.
This the right place?
I hope not.
Getting very weird.
I'd feel better if we had some heat.
Maybe we should bail?
It's incredible. Hit him or something.
I don't think he'd feel it.
... He's a sorry old guy, but I like him.
He couldn't find his ass with both hands.
Now that's the kind of motorcycle I want to see you on.
Sure, a rice burning crotch rocket...
Nick, how we gonna bag this guy without any help? Maybe I should work on that girl Joyce, she speaks the language.
You got any money?
Thought you had a man for that.
I said we wasn't gonna talk about him.
What we just did, you askin' for money, make a man stop. I ain't callin' you no ho. But I ain't gonna be played like no trick, neither. Remember... you called me.
Save that hustle talk to them field ballers you sell crack to.
What'd I tell you? I don't do none of that shit no more. I'm in communications now.
Stolen phone cards and twoways is what you sayin'.
Mobile technology is the new fix for these niggaz, I'm tellin' you. I'm just lookin' ahead. Anyways, ain't no money in drugs no more with these rednecks popping cough pills like they's Skittles. Hey, that's what you need, girl. Get you some cough medicine. What, you sick?
Just a cough. Sugar and a spoonful of Jack'll do it.
Alright. How much you need, ho?
The hell you call me?
Eh, if the bootie fits...
Didn't know you was workin' here now?
I just like dressin' up in these goddamn blue vests. Your money ticket get shipped today?
What happened to your face?
Got in a little accident.
Yeah.
Since you workin' on the square now, maybe we could get some coffee in the morning, if you want.
You need money again?
No. That's not why... Why we always gotta do this? I mean, you and me been at each other as far back as I can remember. Wasn't no love between us. And I'm your daughter. I'm the only family you got.
You never needed nobody. Always made that clear to me.
Yeah. I know I did. But... I'm tryin' to be dif'rent. I'm tryin' to... get some peace, you know?
I'm workin' here, Rae. Can you see that?
I just wanted some makeup.
All that shit's on aisle 5.
I just think you should'a kept him off me, that's all.
The hell are you talkin' about?
Now see? Don't do that. I'll go along with all you say about me. But that... you can't pretend no more on that. Cuz I was just a kid, Momma. I didn't know about any of that stuff he was doin' to me. And you let him do it. Some big nobody in your life... and you let him do as he wanted... with the only SOMEBODY you had.
I'm sorry... I didn't mean to shout...
All my life I been puttin' out your fires, with you givin' out your snatch to every waggin' dick in this town. And you gonna lay the blame at my feet? Well, I ain't gonna take that.
But... Momma... just tell me... not gonna be mad... we can just talk about it... Be eye to eye on this... You don't even got to say you're sorry... Just say how you knew...
Only thing I'm sorry for is listenin' to my parents and having you instead of doin' what I should'a done.
This ain't gonna work.
Rae...
I don't see why we gotta lie 'bout it when you and I know this ain't gonna work.
Rae don't do this now...
It's stupid... It's so fucking stupid!
Rae!
Hey.
Hey.
You don't gotta get up but... I gotta go...
I think if I just piss... I'll be okay.
You feelin' sick?
I'm just in one of my moods. You know how I get.
Yeah, I know.
I think it'd be better if you talk to me.
Yeah?
Just about anything, you know. It can be funny or... not. Just tell me somethin'.
Well. That's my vomit. I came in here to get sick. I thought I'd make the toilet but... anyway, I got sick.
Are you wasted?
No. I just got a messed up stomach.
Holy shit!
What?
Holy shit, Ronnie! You're a fuckin' rock star.
I'm a what?
All them people shoutin' your name like they were doing tonight! Shit! That arm you got'll get'chu on a box of cereal...
I feel better. Do you?
Yeah, I do.
Ain't been a week and you already some nigger's whore? Gill told me. Told me how you and he... you and everybody...
Ronnie. Please, baby...
Did 'ya have fun with her? Sweet as a peach, I bet. Huh? Huh?
Goddamn it, I ask you a question, you better answer it, or I'm gonna blast a hole in ya!
Ronnie...
Thank you.
I gotta ask you. Why do you think Laz is keepin' you chained like this?
You know how, like they say, you save someone's life, you responsible for them. Guess he just don't think it's safe for me.
So he got it into his head that the only thing gonna keep you from endin' up bleedin' on the side of the road again, without a stitch of clothing on is... You think he's crazy for thinkin' that?
You a preacher?
That's right.
Can I ask you a question? People always say, you gotta get good with Jesus, if you want not to go to hell. That you say sorry for all you done and... and Jesus would let you go on to heaven.
You could put it that way.
But that's so fuckin' stupid. I'm sorry. Didn't mean to curse.
What's on your mind?
You can't hurt people... and then just say, I'm sorry, and then everything just gets washed away. Why would heaven want people like that. People who... do what they want and then... switch.
I'm gonna tell you somethin', and it's just gonna be between you and me. I think folks carry on about heaven too much. Like it's some allyoucan eat buffet up in the clouds. And folks just gonna do as they're told so they can eat what they want behind some pearly gates. I can go to Shoney's for that.
It starts like this... fire... that spreads. Starts in my head. Then moves to my stomach. Then it goes lower. I can stop it sometimes but mostly I just jump on and ride it out... then everything'll go back to normal, you know. Only thing ever took that feeling away was... was... when I met Ronnie. Cuz I love him so much. He's all I got in my life that's special. And I like taking care of him and helping him when he gets nervous. When I can do that for him... it's like I'm givin' somethin' of myself that I haven't givin' nobody else.
Rae, look at Ronnie. And tell him how you feel.
You won't at the square this mornin'.
Get me ten bags of mulch.
Yes'sir.
Keep the change on that.
Naw... I got it, Mr. Lazarus. You wanna tip me, best do it in butter beans. Momma say she need a bag 'a yours, none of that storebought junk. That's what she said.
What happened in there... that won't your fault. Ain't a young man alive could keep they britches on with that girl being in heat like she is.
Why she got a chain on her?
That's between her and me. It's private. And I don't want you goin' off and tellin' ya daddy.
Please don't tell my daddy.
My mouth is shut, boy. And that's how we gonna keep it. Don't go braggin' to ya buddies, ya heard me?
So... That your first time?
Yes'sir.
You struck some gold, didn't ya?
I skipped lunch.
Well, dig in, son. Got plenty to eat.
You ain't gonna make a fuss, are you? Nothing a man can do when a woman make up her mind.
I never laid a hand on her in anger. Not a day. Not even when I's drinkin'. But this business got me wonderin' what a good shake and slap would do for her.
That kind of talk is between us. Don't you go in there with that shit on your tongue.
I didn't start this, R.L.
Bojo called. Said you got to see your brother at the long end of a broken bottle.
You gonna preach 'bout turnin' the other cheek?
I think you did alright by God under the circumstances. Your people are here for you, Laz. This is your home. No shame in showing your face.
Don't know if God wanna see me.
He knows where ya at. Just answer the door if he come knockin'.
Was that Lincoln James I seen run off?
He's fine. Just had a bad fall.
Why's his britches round his knees?
R.L., you gonna have to get on. I can't have nobody round my place.
You get a call from Rose?
This ain't got nothin' to do with that woman. Just don't want nobody around me now.
Somethin' wrong with ya phone? Been callin' the last few days.
Goin' dove huntin'?
You gotta go, R.L.. I ain't foolin' this time.
You sayin' that gun's for me if I don't?
You ain't gonna talk me outta shit no more. I got my mind made up and I ain't gonna be moved on this.
Ain't gonna be moved?
Got no place for preachin' here. Not now. So you do as I say...
Or what?
I told you to TURN BACK!
Are you outta ya GODDAMN MIND?
Man like you ought not take the Lord's name like you just done.
A naked woman, chained in ya house?
I'm tellin' you the truth, dammit. I found her beat. Left for dead. So I brung her home.
Laz, I know about that girl. Good number of this town's sinners got my ear, you know. Oh, Laz. She's had a mess of crabs and them STD's. What'chu thinking?
I haven't laid a hand. On my life, R.L., my wick is dry on this.
You say she was beat on. You call the sheriff on that?
Put yo'self in my shoes. Say you out here, alone, with a beaten, half naked, white woman loves to fuck. I been toe to toe with the law in this town for no more than being black and nearby.
What's that chain around her for?
Why don't you go'on and ask her. She need to talk wit somebody with sense. Folks been ruttin' and beatin' on this gal all her days. And this is how I'm handling it.
THIS IS HOW YOU HANDLING IT? THIS IS HOW YOU HANDLING IT?
Good. Makin' steaks for supper. I expect you to come.
You mean with you and that woman chained to ya radiator?
You treat folks special when they company. It's just supper, R.L., shit.
One thing at a time, Laz.
Pass them potatoes, Lincoln.
Y'all let me know if these steaks are too dry.
This all looks wonderful.
Mm. MM. Now these eggs got some kick to it. What'chu got in this?
Ask the chef.
Gotta get that chain off her, Laz. Somethin' like this gets out, you could land in a heap of trouble.
I'm dealin' with what God put before me.
You believe He wants this? A woman chained to ya radiator?
Not like that.
Then what?
She's tied to me, R.L.. We tied to each other.
The hell is this shit?
What? I called Bojo, like you say. Called up the fellas in the band...
The fuck are all these people doin' here? Been drinkin' in this shit hole for years ain't seen this many people since I don't know...
There you go, preacher man. Get me drunk so I don't stick my foot up yo ass.
I just know how you get. Good to know, them butterflies still in ya gut.
Heard about this morning.
We ain't here to talk about that shit.
Yeah, you know you home, old man. You just walked through the door.
I don't know, but I been told, them Georgia women sweet jelly roll.
And now these three remain: faith, hope and love. But the greatest of these is love. Who gives this girl in marriage?
I do.
Do you call it a game when only one man win each time? I think you call it a damn shame.
Word wit'cha. In private.
You need some weed?
Been years since I fooled with that. You know a white girl? Dirty blond hair, split down the middle like?
That ain't up to me to hook you up. Naw what I mean? She her own, you know?
Huh?
I don't pimp that. You talkin' about who I think you talkin' about, you mean Rae. Rae Doole. Sexy little split tail, like you say. I can't hook you up with that. I got two girls. One ain't in town, the other one pregnant. So... you on your own.
This Rae... you get with her?
Shit. Who hasn't?
Why you say that?
She got a spare minute she'll snatch up anyone... but me, I'm different. Sometimes she need the real deal, so she call me up. Girl got an itch. You know... what's a nigga to do?
She like it rough? You like beatin' on her?
That ain't my scene. If that's somethin' you into...
Now, hold up.
See, that girl is in my favor. You heard me, nigga? You fuck with her rough, and you got me to fuck wit.
You collar that dog, boy. I ain't gonna hurt nobody. Just wanted to know who she was.
Like I say, you wanna hook that up... I ain't in ya way. That switch of hers been all over this town. Got that sickness, you know.
What'chu sayin'?
She a freak. Got what you call a sexual addiction.
What'chu sayin'?
What I'm tellin' you. Girl gotta get dick or she go crazy.
She a freak. Got what you call a sexual addiction.
What'chu sayin'?
What I'm tellin' you. Girl gotta get dick or she go crazy.
First hooked up with that bitch when she was 16. Girl was fuckin' the principal and two of her teachers. You know coach Reynolds?
Uhhuh.
He tapped that.
Naw!
Go ask him.
You ever seen a train run on a woman?
Nuhuh.
Meanin' like a team of fellas go to work on her and she don't even break a sweat. She into football, you know. You got a letter on your jacket you get that pussy in ya lap. I ain't playin'.
How a girl get like that?
Like I told you.
It got some miles on it, but my boys say she run good. Got fresh 22's on her. Ain't my doin'. That's just how it came to me. Don't worry. Nobody gonna come lookin' for it. I got the pinks... got no problem. Ain't gonna have my girl ridin' no bus.
Don't see generosity much these days. Everything always got a catch. Guess I'm tryin' to say... thank you.
Nobody ever asks me to do shit like this for people. And you know what? I'm good at it. Naw what I mean?
Teh... Tehronne?
Tehronne? Tehronne done this?
Nnnn... Nnnn... no... N'RONNIE!
GAL! YOU HEARIN' MY VOICE?
Mmmm... Mmmm...
Come on, gal...
Take it easy now. Don't rush it.
How long... how long I been out?
You been in and out goin' on two... maybe two days.
Two days?
After your fever broke, you'd wake up in spells... long enough to get that medicine in ya.
Where's Ronnie?
Well I don't...
Wait. He left.
I don't got any money... for fixin' me up and all.
Don't need none.
Then I better be on my way. Don't wanna put you out no more.
Think it'd be best if you stayed put while we talk.
Naw'sir... I gotta be on my way.
Best try gettin' ya wits about you 'fore you try to...
Let me say somethin' first...
Why you got me chained?
Way I see it, it's gonna take a while for you to get right.
The fuck you been doin' to me?
I ain't laid a hand on ya but to ease yo fever... Remember like I say, I found you in the road...
Get this Goddamn thing off me!
Now, no harm's come to you... and I aim to keep it that way. Ain't gonna... gonna run a train over ya... or however you call it... see... you was runnin' wild on me... these fever dreams you was havin'... these fits. I'd be chasin' you all night.
Well I'm woke now... you can take this off.
Gal, you ain't right yet.
I'm right enough to stand on my own two feet. Now take this Goddamn chain off...
How you let men treat ya like they do?
What?
These men you up under. How you let them do ya like that?
Do me? Do me like this, you mean? Like chainin' me up?
You know what I'm talkin' about. All that mess with ya teachers and... boys in the backs of trucks.
The hell you know about me?! You got no right to talk to me about that shit! The hell you think you are?
I've saved ya life, gal. I can do and say whatever the fuck I want.
I give ya enough chain so's you can get about the house. Get you to the kitchen. You need the bathroom, it'll reach.
What do you want?
We got everything we need. Plenty of food. Ya medicine still got a few good swallows in it...
WHAT DO YOU WANT FROM ME?! WHATEVER YOU GONNA DO TO ME, JUST DO IT! AND LET ME GO!
God saw to it to put you in my path. And I aim to cure ya of your wickedness.
You some kind'a pervert?
No ma'am.
Some crazy Jesus freak, gonna fuck the spirit into me...
In my house, you watch that lip...
Look it, mister... you wanna have your way, you take it. I'll do whatever you want. But you gotta let me go. You can't do this! You can't KEEP ME HERE!
You sick. You got a sickness... we broke that fever... we gonna break that hold the devil got on ya.
LET ME GO!
You can holla y'self hoarse. Ain't gonna bend my will. Right or wrong, you gonna mind me. Gonna suffer you like Jesus say, to the FAITHLESS and the PERVERSE GENERATION.
Now you get up! And you get in my house!
Or what?
Stop it! Stop it! IT HURTS!
Whose doin' is that?
Wicked little bitch... gonna cut me...
You gonna get a lot more a'that, you keep me locked up like this!
No, ma'am. You stop that foolishness.
Hmmm... Hmmm...
I said... STOP!
I CAN'T!
You like this? Walkin' me through this field like I's your mule?
Can't sit all day on that sofa. Need to get your legs strong.
If I break one you gonna shoot me?
My Daddy was one of the first mens to organize soil conservation in these parts. That's a group of farmers, you know, each season they'd rotate the crop. Know why it's best to rotate em like that?
Uhuh.
Cuz once in a while soil need a change. Corn take up a lot of nitrate in the fertilizer. So next crop what ya do is plant ya some soy beans. That give off a lot of nitrate. Change keeps it all growin' and growin' strong. Sting a bit?
Itches.
Means ya healin'. So all this farmin' make me think on Matthew. Matthew 13. The parable of the sower? Man toss seed on rock, on the wayside, some fell in thorns... you know the story?
Uhuh.
The seed that land on good soil is for them who hear the word of God... and understand the word of God. Not enough for you to hear what I'm sayin', you gotta understand.
I know. I get it. What's Matthew doin'?
Gal... Matthew ain't doin' shit... this just a story... Look it. I've seen it in nature, I've seen it in men. Ya got to change up your crop. Cuz that seed ain't gettin' in. Ya gotta cut this shit out. Got no cause to be up under these fools, ruttin' on ya like you a bitch. Like you somebody's dog. No woman... who joins in union with Almighty God... or man... in the sanctity of marriage... should degrade herself... and bend to ANOTHER MAN'S WILL!
My God, gal, don't you got no SENSE? I ain't sayin' I ain't weak? Shit. Playin' guitar in the bloodbucket jukes all ya life... a nigga learn how to sin, let me tell you! I GOT SIN IN ME! I AIN'T GO'N LIE! BUT I GOT RESPECT! AND ALL YOU GOT IS BILE, GAL!
Let go of me...
GIVIN' UP THAT SWITCH LIKE A TRAMP! BEHIND MY BACK AND KILL MY BABY...!
Now that's sharp. That is sharp. Chain give you any trouble?
Uhuh.
Good. Now I got the steaks on, potatoes at a boil, and biscuits ready to pop in the oven. R.L. and Lincoln out yonder grillin' up the corn. What do you know how to make?
I don't fuckin' cook.
Gal, I been around hardcursin' folk all my life. And let me tell you...
Look it... I put the Goddamn dress on, didn't I? I think I'm handlin' myself with some... fuckin' restraint here... how you got me locked up like a dog on a...
If all you got is filth comin' out'cha mouth... people just gonna tune ya out. Rae. RAE! I'm not fightin' with ya. I just know you got more in you than junk. Now, you sayin' you don't know how to cook anything at all? You know how to boil water?
I can handle that.
Well, get to it.
They sure liked them devilled eggs.
You drink whiskey?
You take it straight?
Sure.
Want another?
We drinkin' buddies now?
To freedom.
Still makin' jokes?
No joke.
If you want... I can take you back to town now.
I ain't in a hurry.
Could you do somethin' for me?
Anything.
My life is gone. Only life I was livin'. And I lost it.
I'm here with you.
I had love in my heart. And I gave it to one woman. And she gone now. Where am I gonna put all this love?
Tell me what to do.
The... chain helps.
I seen a man die. He couldn't breathe... his heart was... was givin' out.
You just havin' a fit. You ain't goin' nowhere.
He told me... get help. I just stood there and watched him... I watched him die, Laz. Oh God! GODDAMMIT!
Oh, Laz... he hurt me. He... hurt me so many times.
No one's gonna hurt you no more.
You think God forgives people like that? You think God forgives people like me?
Where you gonna be?
Right here. Be here all afternoon. You ready for this?
I'm gonna just get some girl stuff, like makeup and... stuff.
You took care of your wife, like you do me?
I tried.
What is it?
Nothin'.
Get'chu at that table up yonder.
By myself?
You can handle it.
Are you drunk? Keep drinkin' water and you won't get a headache in the mornin'.
Yeah, gal I been here before.
I guess you have.
Laz? Can I sleep with you tonight?
Don't think that'd be wise.
I didn't mean it nothin' dirty.
I know you didn't. But you a grown girl. You can handle it. I got to.
Sorry.
Looks like you know a song.
Don't know where I learn't it, but... it's there in my head.
How you feelin' today?
You know how you feel when you come out of a bad hangover? Like your eyes can open a little bit more.
I know that.
Woke up real early. Sun was shining. Just thought I'd mess around, try to learn a song.
Go'on and sing it, I'll play.
No, you do it. I can't sing.
Stop that foolishness. Just do as I say and close your eyes. Close your eyes. And think about... well, for a song like this, I'd say you think about what you love.
What I love.
Get a good picture in your mind.
Now that's sharp. That's real sharp. Miss Ella Mae set you up, didn't she? You like it?
I've had nice things before but I always ruined 'em somehow.
Well, this one's yours now. You ready to take care of it?
I don't want you to let go.
Maybe I won't.
YOU SHUT UP!
Careful how you point that gun, boy.
Or what? OR WHAT?
Boy? You here to make a point, or you here to kill somebody?
Ain't gonna be callin' me boy when I blow your face off.
You sayin' you'll do what?
You heard me, motherfucker. I'll fuckin' kill..
BOY! You so green you couldn't stomp a baby duck.
You testing me? Huh? You testin' me, old man?
Test. Shit. What kind'a test you thinkin'? You mean like, if you a man or not? If you a killer? Only one way to prove that. You just look me in the eye, boy, and you squeeze that trigger back.
GODDAMMIT, RAE!
BOY! YOU KEEP THAT GUN POINTED AT ME! You need to kill a man, all you gotta have is a good reason. You know she been here with me, don't cha? Been all over town, givin' up that switch you thought was your own.
SHUT UP! SHUT UP!
Put all your love and dreams into one woman... she turn around and give it all to another man. That's a good reason to paint the wall with me, kid. She'd fear ya then. Cuz there won't be no more question in her mind. She with a real man now. A real KILLER!
Don't... don't say that to me...
Son, I'm grown. Don't got patience to suffer you children and this monkey junk. I'm too old to play house... ...and cowboys. So let's have it. End me or get out of my face!
Like a man.
Yes. I mean that's it. I wanna feel like a man with her. I wanna feel like the only man with her.
Can't remember the last time I saw you in that suit.
Your mother's funeral. I's a pallbearer, remember?
We leavin' this weekend. Deke got a friend in Mobile gonna get him a job at the water company...
If you come to talk about that muthafucka, I'm gonna get up and leave you sittin' pretty in that new suit he bought'cha.
Think this about money still, ya old fool?
Say what you gotta say, but I ain't gonna hear you speak his name to me. Not never. You hear?
How many times we been over this, Laz? How many times?
Thought we was gonna be friendly about this.
Carryin' on behind my back. Make me out to look like a fool to all our people. Tell me, what's friendly about that?
I'm not ready to grow old, Laz. Livin' with you. I feel it. Like I'm one foot in the dirt. Saw it happen to my momma. And that's not gonna happen to me. I got living to do.
And you gonna live it with him?
Rose. Folks get sick. But you do what you can to get on the mend. Our marriage... it just got sick. That's all.
Talk to me about sick. Ain't been right since I moved into that drafty house.
I keep the heat on.
That damned, rusty, radiator, bout burned the skin off my legs each time I passed.
Kept us warm for twelve years.
I deserve better than this.
Better'n me?
Better than what you give.
Rose... please...
Laz... You can't say nothin'...
If we get with a counselor. At the church, maybe they's...
I don't love ya no more.
God forgive you, for how you done me...
Let go...
My Daddy told me that a younger woman would bleed me dry. And that's what you did. Ya bled me.
Let go of my arm...
Would'a chopped my arm off if you asked. And this how you do me!
LAZ, I said let...!
You better pray, gal. You better pray...
Don't you lay a CURSE ON ME!
Ronnie ship out this mornin'?
It's so stupid. Says to me that he don't want nothin' to do with no military career. Says he wants to move. Open up an auto shop with his uncle up in Knoxville. I said, okay. How about now? Let's go.
Nothing's gonna happen. Not like everybody over there is in the line of fire with them Arabs blowin' themselves up.
Can't be thinkin' bout him every second of my day. I'll go outta my gourd.
Why should you waste your life waitin' and wonderin'. Not like you're married.
I begged him not to go. And he did.
You wanna go home?
It gets worse there. Leavin' me to my own mind. That's just not good.
Here. Pound this and I'll join you.
Better?
Yeah.
It's not like I can't go out and have fun with my friends.
You think I'm Ronnie's spy or somethin'? Come tomorrow that dumb ass gonna be halfway round the world tryin' to keep his head on his shoulders. You think he's gonna be thinkin' about you?
You go to hell.
Jes? Jesse? Oh shit... Wait... Wait... STOP!
Stop what?
Thought you had a skirt earlier.
I got others.
This thing you got... I've heard people say, you'd fuck a tree if it was handy. I can see that. But that nigger Tehronne. Thinks he's some player cuz he hustles dope and stolen hubcaps. I mean, I can see a tree. But that piece of shit?
I begged him. Don't see why he had to go...
I bet you did. Just had to get that black cock up in you. I swear to God. What Ronnie sees... you disgust me.
The fuck you laughin' at?
You don't got half what Tehronne got.
Still need a lift?
Yeah. Transmission's shot.
Look it. I got somethin' for us. This is gonna help, okay.
You gonna miss your bus.
Holy shit.
Yeah.
Sit down, man. Need a beer?
Sure.
Marv, let's get Ronnie set up here.
What happened?
They been keepin' a folder on me cuz of my stomach. Like how it was just before we'd play ball back in school. Thought it was just some tic I got, or ulcers like my daddy had. I can't... shoot. Target practice I'm a pro. I tag between the numbers each time but... But when there's really loud noises around me... somethin' happens. I get shaky and... I lose my breath. They called it anxiety. Severe anxiety. It can be fixed and all... just not in time for.... It's a long process but... they sent me home.
I guess it could be worse. You could be comin' back in a body bag.
I can't get Rae on the phone. She's not at home... none of her friends seen her anywhere.
She's around. Always is.
I don't know. She's gettin' crazy, like she gets. Begged me not to go. Got real down. I just think somethin's happened. Like she run off with someone. You'd tell me if you knew somethin', right?
You been home yet?
Uhuh. I's hitchin' up the interstate when I seen your truck outside.
You need a ride?
This don't feel right. Kitchen looks just like I left it. I know, cuz I cleaned it.
She ever tell you she was thinkin' of taking off?
I just been so mixed up lately, Gill. And, you know, with her history, I can see how she could get scared... ...and run.
Ronnie. You can't see cuz you're too close to it. These nervous spells you get. You never had that shit back in school...
That's not right, really, cuz I...
You joined up in that monkey troop cuz you had a plan for yourself. Army'd pay for school. You were gonna get a degree, maybe somethin' in business or agriculture and you were gonna make somethin' of yourself.
And then you had to fall in love with the school slut.
Now wait...
With all she was doin'. With all the shit she kept doing! You stayed stuck to that bitch's ass and you wouldn't let go.
I know about how she was like. But we was different. I's the only person she talked to about it. How she's abused. Terrible things, Gill, just terrible...
YOU HAD A PLAN! YOU HAD A GODDAMN LIFE! AND SHE JUST FUCKED THE GUTS OUT OF YOU!
It's not her fault, Gill. She's had to take care of me all this time, cuz I'd just start throwin' up... choking. Just losin' my grip. And she listened. She listened to me. And... I got better. I don't get nervous like I used to. And since we been together... she been faithful to me. Put all that junk behind her...
The only thing that cunt's had behind her is me and half the town fuckin' her. Your first night away, I come over and drop off the spare keys like you wanted me to. You weren't gone two hours and she was aching to get me inside her. Like she was havin' some kind'a fit.
You gonna steal my truck?
Make yourself at home. You done it already.
And, sir... do you have a size in mind for what you're lookin' for?
That young lady's size, right'cher.
Well, that makes it easier.
Mind I ask, what's all this business here?
These are whipped body creams. It's like a lotion.
For your hands?
Some women prefer not to scent their bodies with perfume. So now they have scented creams. They help moisturize a woman's skin. This one's my favorite. It's called Ginger Souffle. I recommend... applying the cream while the skin is still damp. So... perhaps just after a shower.
I'll take a jar of that, too.
Hi.
Hey.
You ain't the kicker, are you?
No, ma'am.
Cuz let me tell you, you boys gotta run the ball more. You get into a kicking game, ya'll gonna lose.
Can I put it in your mouth?
Okay.
He black alright, he just ain't blue.
Why you stop havin' dancin' on Saturday? Used to have bands... all kind's live shit. Like a wake up in here, now.
Folks can dance when they want. Didn't buy that mirror ball for nothin'.
You seen my snakeskin shoes?
Naw. They got some blue dye, though. You think them boots you got on come from a black cow?
Wanna get on somebody 'bout live music, get on ol' Laz, there. He the one got this place shakin' back in the day.
Don't gotta tell me. Me and my girlfriends useta talk 'bout them hard fingertips he got pickin' that guitar.
Lazarus?
Oh! Gave me a start.
I'm sorry. It's these soft shoes I wear for my back.
You hurt it?
I'm standing most of my day. They're for support. Didn't see you in church this mornin'.
Been on the crop. May need to get some extra hands if I don't want to work on Sundays.
Well. It's good to see you.
Angela?
Yes?
I need to uh...
Go on, Laz. You can talk to me.
My little niece... she got this deep cough.
You take her to a doctor?
No. No, she can't go. Mean to say... they's just no money fo'a doctor. Her daddy left for a job, and uh... give her to me to look on. I just... I don't know what to do.
Is your niece older than 12?
Oh, she older than that.
My sister got a bad cough with her pneumonia. I just copied her prescription. You don't need to pay anything... just take it. But if she gets worse, you give me a call. I wrote my number on the box.
This gonna get you in trouble?
Not if no one finds out.
Thank you. Oh. My wife. She had a card here for her migraine pills. She ain't gonna be around no more... So if you...
I already tossed that out. Somethin' you should'a done to that woman long ago... how she treated you. Of course, that's none of my business.
Don't make it less true.
I brung you a little basket of goodies. Fresh squash, tomatoes, some okra, butter beans.
You didn't have to do this.
Just wanted to say how much I appreciate you helping me the other day. My niece, she's cured up, and I got you to thank.
Well that's good. I'm happy to hear it.
This was very sweet of you.
Well. Hope you enjoy it.
I bet you have loyal customers.
You liked what I brung ya?
Been eatin' like a princess all week. Even got enough for us to take a picnic under the gazebo.
That'd be nice.
I put on the lotion you got me. Can you smell it?
I's thinkin' about singing in the choir.
At church?
Mmhm. I don't know if I got a good voice or not but... practice is only on Mondays and Wednesdays, so...
You gonna sing me somethin'?
When? Now? Oh. No.
Come on, just a little somethin'. Right here. Go'on now, don't be shy.
Hey.
Hey. You wasn't at'cha work but that nosey gal up at the counter give me your home address. Hope you don't mind me comin' over.
What do you need?
I need ya help again.
More cough syrup?
Can I come in?
I lied to you. It was wrong. But at the time... I didn't know what to do. Imagine you got an earful from folks about that gal I's carryin'...
Laz... you don't need to explain yourself to me...
Yes, I do. Cuz I feel for you. Mean to say... I got feelings for you. And I didn't want you to think... I didn't... I don't want you to go away. There's better ways to say what I'm trying to say, but... they it is. Don't go away.
Laz. I'm gonna put my trust in you. I'm gonna do it knowin' all too well I can get hurt like this. And I have been hurt. Just like you. Woman like me, I got a lot of livin' to do. But my days are precious to me. They all I got left. Don't want no more fuss. I want love in my life. You understanding me, Laz?
I do. God's truth. I do.
What are you doing?
Just wanted to see.
You know the rules. You do know the rules, don't you?
Yeah, I know.
Then start taking them seriously.
Yes, ma'am.
Is the flight full?
I'm sorry Sir. I believe the flight is closed.
Please check. Is it full? Please could you check.
You have excellent English.
Thanks.
How do you want to pay?
Cash.
Is that everything?
Yes.
Right. Okay. Good.
It's about forty miles from here. I don't know if you've looked at a map, it's close to London but it's a city in itself. A Roman city. It's a nice house. I'm having a problem with ants. I uh... It's the warmer weather. I can't seem to find the nest. Sorry, do you understand "ants"?
Yes.
I just can't find a nest. The root of the problem. I've looked everywhere. What's the Russian for ant? Sorry that's a stupid... Sorry. This is strange isn't it.
Yes.
I'm pretty nervous. Are you?
Yes.
I mean... "Ants." "I've got a problem with ants."
So. Is it different to how you imagined it?
Yes.
I bet. What about me? Am I how you imagined?
Yes.
And how was the flight. Sorry, am I speaking too fast for you?
Yes.
Do uh... Sorry. Can you follow me? Do you understand what I'm saying?
Yes.
Good. Or should I speak slower?
Yes.
Do you follow or should I speak slower?
Yes.
Uh... Are you a giraffe?
Yes.
Today is bath day.
Sorry?
I don't understand.
Happy bath day.
Syevodnya?
Syevodnya
Happy Birthday. Happy Birthday.
"Frenzy".
Yes I know.
They go. John. They go.
What's wrong?
They go.
Of course. They go. Yes. Yes.
They go.
Oh, I don't know. In my job as Deputy Assistant of New Business at the bank would have to listen to the problems of a great many individuals. This took a lot of understanding and sympathy, to try to work out solutions to their problems. But, you see, I'm not in that line of work anymore. Nowadays I'm a bank robber.
You don't understand anything.
I think that about covers it. I think I have grasped the part about you being dumped though. That's got to hurt, I imagine. That's got to smart a bit. I mean strictly in my observer's capacity it seemed you two were getting on Pretty Fucking Famously.
Unless. Unless this is part of the routine. You get tied up, stick around, distract me, they both bust in and Steal My Cup Of Coffee.
It's makes it easier. Okay.
I don't want to know.
It makes it faster. If I don't speak to the men, they fall faster. It's pretty obvious why.
That's a relief. It's nice to know I'm a regular guy.
So what are you going to do?
I'm going to drink my coffee. Then, we're going to the police station. Where there will be lawyers, loss of job, house, humiliation, gutter press, and probably prison.
They don't blame you. When a bank employee does this they understand. You get your life back. Anyway I bet you hated that bank.
Even so I always felt the decision to burst in and rob it very much remained with me.
Why else would you send off for me? If you just wanted sex just go to a prostitute.
Well as it turns out I did.
You must think... I'm the biggest pillock... In the world.
No I don't.
In the world.
I know you just want to punish me 
I do. I want to very badly.
So you're just going to be vindictive
In every sense. If at all possible.
You can't hurt me more than I'm hurt already.
Well, Nadia, It it's all the same to you, I'd like to give it a bash.
Where's the restroom?
What?
I'm going to be sick. Where's the...
What? No you're not..
I'm going... I am... I'm going to be sick.
No you're not. How... Nice one. How dumb do you think I am ?
You don't have to do this. I can look after myself.
Have you got your passport?
What?
Shut up. Have you got your passport?
Yes.
Give me some money.
I don't have any money.
What?
I said I don't have any.
So, uh, Alexei, which I know isn't his name...
I don't want to talk about him.
Fine.
It's none of your business.
Fine. Absolutely. Must be disappointing though. Must come as a hell of a shock.
So uh...
Look, if you want to know is he better in bed than you then yes he is.
Oh Jesus.
If what you want to know is does he have a bigger cock than you, then yes he does.
Of course. Of course. Of course he does. Of course. Thank you. Thanks.
But, you know, so what?
Not the kids type then is he? Not that broody. You must be pretty miffed.
He will come back.
Excuse me?
He left me my passport and ticket. It's pretty clear he wants to see me again.
Yeah. I tend to tie up and abandon women I really want to see again too.
No. But you tend to tie them up.
I don't want to talk about it.
Why not?
Shut up. I'm not listening.
You don't want to talk about it.
No.
Okay we won't talk about it.
We'll pretend it never happened.
So. What's it like having to fuck men you hate?
I don't hate you.
Okay. Let's... Okay. Okay. You have had sex with people you don't like haven't you? For money. To make money.
And? What are you saying?
And. It's wrong.
And who says what is wrong.
And that would be Morals. That would be one's own moral sense of decency.
What's a moral orgasm John? Tell me how it feels exactly.
So. What then? You just detach sex from everything..
Whereas "Wet 'n' Wild" is an emotional journey. "Tied and Tethered". It's pretty moving huh? Like Anna Karenina.
Listen. I didn't go rooting around in your private stuff.
So what? Do you just switch off in your head or do you imagine you're with him, or what?
Sometimes.
Sometimes which?
Sometimes neither.
Some... What does that mean?
There's nothing wrong in liking sex, John.
I don't like sex. I don't think I'll be having sex ever again.
Why?
Well, it's just that the thought trying to charm up an erection in front of a woman, or alone for that matter, makes me want to die.
So now you hate all women?
I think it's my safest bet, don't you?
Oh. I think you will recover okay. I think you got what you paid for.
What?
You...
I got what I paid for.
You didn't mind too much.
It wasn't what I wanted.
So what did you want? I think we understand each other, no?
You don't understand me.
You don't understand you either.
Excuse me?
Get out
You are throwing me out.
Get out.
You know, in Russia, there's no work for women. It's a different world.
You don't have to say anything
What? I... I wasn't saying...
Please, there's no... Oh.
I wasn't saying anything.
Then okay. So how old were you when you met him?
Fifteen. You don't know him. He was very kind and strong.
Yeah. He's a smashing bloke.
The rest of the world, John, it's not all like St. Albans.
Thank Christ for that.
You are pretty naive if you think it is.
I'm pretty naive? Look at you. You have to do all this, and what have you got to show for it? Nothing.
I don't have nothing.
Well what have you got?
Do you know if it's a boy or a girl?
No.
Have you had any before?
No.
Are you scared?
Not really. Maybe a little.
What happened between you and the blonde?
What?
The thin... the girl with small eyes. The one in your cupboard.
It's none of your business. She didn't have small eyes.
Did she leave you? Come on. It's nothing to be ashamed of. Who did she leave you for? Your best friend? Her boss? A woman? Did she leave you for a woman, John?
She's dead.
I'm sorry.
I don't know why I said that. She's not dead at all.
What?
I don't know why I said it. I'm sorry.
She's alive?
She's alive!! She is not dead?
Laugh it up.
You should stop smoking. You're pregnant. You smoke like a fucking lab dog.
I'm trying to quit.
I've got news for you. It's not working.
I smoke more these days. I smoke more when I'm unhappy.
Nobody's that unhappy.
Maybe I want to die. Don't you want me to die?
I don't want anyone to die.
Except for Small Eyes.
Except for Small Eyes.
I don't know.
What was her name?
What's your name?
You know you can come under the blanket.
It's alright.
I've got an hour. Can I buy you a coffee?
No. I think I better just go.
Okay. Thank you.
Whatever.
Yeah. No thanks.
Please. Why not?
Because it was a lie.
Okay. Goodbye.
Goodbye.
Something else.
Okay. Promise?
You can probably buy them on the flight.
I'm quitting. This will be my last one. So. Goodbye.
Goodbye.
You didn't deserve me John Buckingham.
Whatever.
I'm sorry.
Please.
It's not mine.
It's not mine either.
It's what you came back for.
Why?
I'm not asking you to marry me.
No. What? No. I know.
It's more like a date.
It's a long way to go for a date.
Tell me about it.
What does it mean?
Maybe you will find out.
Hurry. I'll wait for you here.
Right.
My name's Sophia.
Sophia. Hello Sophia. Mine's still John.
How's that? We can't drink our piss can we?
Hang on hang on, sorry, but like, who are you?
You must find some glasses, small, for the toast, and some plates.
What are you doing here?
Sorry. You've lost me...
I'm asking what you're here for.
What?
What did he say?
He says he feels safe here.
I need to know who you are first please.
Oh. We are Russian.
Yes. I know.
Good.
And...
And what? You mean from the beginning? Jesus. Can I uh okay, as we say in Russia can I cut a long story short. Okay. Nadia is my little cousin. Except she's not. But we say cousin. This is for you.
Hold on.
Toast first then we talk seriously, I can see you are serious about us.
So hang on. You're both Nadia's cousins?
Of course not. Alexei, he's is my problem.
Right.
We better watch him. He's crazy.
Right.
I am actor, he is actor, although he is an actor stroke musician. I just noodle along, I'm not so good. He makes me look like a retard  He smokes me. I don't mean he smokes me.
No.
Right. So I can say he smokes me. So.
So?
So I come to England with other actors to make shows, I meet this freak from Novgorod I tell him of you and Chicken and the birthday here we are.
What was that?
I asked her if you were happy to see us. I find it hard to tell with you.
Yes it's okay. Thank you for the food.
So how long will you be in England?
Plans are for the architects, politicians and so forth.
You must have a visa or something...
You're asking for my documents?
No, no...
She says 'Hello' to you. Go for it John!
Uh. Do you like England?
Classic! Thank God. She says 'Yes!'
She says she has a secret to tell.
What?
When?
"I saw you waiting there, by the gate."
I...
"I have these uh..." She explains to you... "When I was a little girl my father had these beautiful old glasses." Like... I don't know the word. Like for watching uh... for watching the birds.
Binoculars.
Binoculars. He had these Binoculars he has kept from the war.
What was that?
Oh nothing.
Tell me.
No. It is too judgmental.
Tell me what he said.
He says why did you send to Russia for a wife.
You are not ashamed of it? It's no surprise to want to love.
No. It's not that.
Do you believe in love?
I suppose it's... I mean define your terms.
It's very strange. How many people are truly themselves with their love? It is the greatest human disaster and it is never in the newspapers. There are no Marches Against Heartache, no Ministries Against Loneliness, no Concerts Against Disappointment. We look away. And still we know in secret that nothing is more important to us. The one thing we all share but don't say. Look John I will show you something.
How is bank?
Fine. I thought you were leaving today.
To be indoors on such a day. It's crime.
I understand. I'm so sorry
You can stay tonight.
I have brought you trouble. Maybe I should have come alone.
Good night.
Put the fucking kettle down.
John.
Put the fucking kettle down. Tell, Yuri, tell him put it down or I'm going to make him.
He says you scare him so much he must go to the toilet in his trousers. John, he is a soldier. A trained killer. We must do what he says.
What? What does he want?
What did he say? Tell me!
He says you are very sad ridiculous man. I don't agree of course. And that you must pay someone to have sex like a prostitute. Nadia is a prostitute. I'm sorry.
What does he want. The Russian shithead. What do you want ?
He wants money.
Tell him to put the kettle down and I'll give him money.
He wants a lot of money.
I'll give him money. Tell him to put the...
He wants the money from your bank.
I'll fuckin' give it to him! We'll go down there.
You don't understand. He wants all the money that is in your bank.
I've got eight hundred pounds. Oh Jesus.
Oh Jesus.
He is sure you can do this. Of course you can not.
Oh Jesus. Of course I can't.
Just leave her alone.
I'm so sorry.
Leave her alone.
This is sensitive. Your car. Lovely car. Doesn't necessarily give the right impression.
Ch...
To customers approaching the bank from the rear
Right.
You can see why it's sensitive?
Uh... Yes.
Hello.
I thought you could give us the tour this morning. Sort of be our Indian Guide.
Right.
Sixty four thousand, eight hundred.
There's over eighty thousand here.
It's enough isn't it?
What do you mean?
You know what I mean babe, It's enough. We can stop.
Do you want to stop?
Yes.
We'll stop then.
What's this?
It's nothing. I burnt myself.
That's not a burn.
It is. I did it cooking.
Do you like it?
Yeah.
Say thank you.
Thank you.
What?
You heard what I said. I'm pregnant. I've been throwing up for weeks.
A baby? What are we supposed to do with a baby?
Name it.
What? What are you doing?
What are you doing here?
What. You're what? You're with this creep now.
Leave him!
You have. You've actually fallen for this prick.
No I haven't.
You first.
Fifty thousand. Almost exactly.
Put it in the cases. Split it up. And don't forget you owe me 150.
What for?
You know what for.
No I don't.
I got you those trousers from Paul Smith.
I've been buying you stuff all week. I've been buying him stuff all week.
Such as?
When we went to the Hard Rock Cafe. Who paid? When we went to see 'Cats'. Who paid?
Those aren't presents. That's normal friendship stuff
I paid for those guitar cases.
Yeah it was okay.
Yeah. It was quite good actually. Some bits I really liked.
The sets were good.
The sets were excellent. Everything was big, you know, all the rubbish, coke cans, sweet wrappers, dustbins, so when you were watching it you felt cat size. It was really clever.
How did you get here?
We swam. The Atlantic, it's not that big really.
Ruth McHibbon offered to pick you up at the airport.
We rented a car.
You didn't need to do that. You just didn't.
Is that Dr. Bennett's car?
He's up with your father.
How is he?
He's impossible. He won't eat. And because he won't eat, he gets weaker. And because he's weaker, he doesn't want to eat.
How much time does he have left?
You don't talk about those things. Not yet.
I don't know if you've seen it, but Josephine has some photos in the most recent Newsweek.
Really! That's wonderful.
Mom, would you say you understand Dad?
Of course.
What I mean is, do you really know what's going on in his head?
Yes.
How is that possible? I mean, you try to ask him a question and suddenly it's another one of his stories. You can't honestly say you know him.
Yes, Will, I do. And don't presume things you don't know.
Would you say you understand Josephine?
Yes. But that's a different...
No it's not. It's exactly the same. Your father and I met, we dated, and we married  we chose each other  because we understood each other on some fundamental level. Just the same as you two.
Josephine and I have a lot in common.
Yes, you both think William Bloom is a very smart man. The problem is, you only see me as your mother, and not as someone's wife. And I've been his wife longer than I've been your mother. You can't discount that.
True. But I've known him my whole life, and I don't feel like I know him at all. Or ever will.
I know it's not easy. Just remember, he didn't choose to be your father and you didn't choose to be his son. You just ended up together. You could pick numbers out of a dark bag and it'd be just the same. If you ask me, it's a wonder parents and children can stand each other at all.
But I understand you, Mom. I always have.
Well, clearly you don't. But I'm not the mystery you're trying to solve right now.
Before I forget, your father has papers in the basement I'd like you to go through. I wouldn't know what's important.
Mom, do you know who that is? Blonde hair.
Was she one of your teachers?
No. But it's weird. She seemed to recognize me.
Do you know who that is?
That really happened?
Not everything your father says is a complete fabrication.
Is he awake?
He just fell asleep. Josephine's with him.
Mom?
Yes?
Did you and Dad have any other property?
I suppose your grandmother's house when she passed on. But we sold that right away. Your cousin Shirley bought it.
So you never bought any land.
Heavens no. We had a hard enough time keeping the mortgage on this place.
I don't suppose one of us could stay with him. In case he... In case he wakes up, one of us should be there.
I'll stay. Why don't you go home with Josephine and I'll stay tonight.
That's okay?
Mom, do you want some time with Dad?
Yes. Thank you.
It's bad.
It's more than they thought. They're going to stop chemo.
You need to go.
Probably tonight.
I'm going with you.
You don't have to.
I'm going with you.
I talked with your father last night.
Did you?
You never told me how your parents met.
They met at Auburn.
What about the details? How they fell in love. The Circus. The War. You never told me any of that.
That's because most of it never happened.
But it's romantic.
Mmm.
Mmm, what?
Mmm, what. I know better than to argue romance with a French woman.
Do you love your father?
Everyone loves my father. He's a very likeable guy.
Do you love him?
You have to understand. When I was growing up, he was gone more than he was here. And I started thinking  maybe he has a second life somewhere else. With another house, another family. He leaves us, he goes to them. Or maybe there is no family. Maybe he never wanted a family. But whatever it is, maybe he likes that second life better. And the reason he tells all those stories is because he can't stand this boring place.
But it's not true.
What is "true?" I've never heard my father say a single true thing.
Look, I know why you like him. I know why everyone likes him. But I need you to tell me I'm not crazy.
You're not.
I need you on my side.
I am always on your side. And I think you should talk to him.
What happened?
Your father had a stroke. He's upstairs with your mom and Dr. Bennett.
Is he going to be okay?
Thank you. I'll bet you need to 
Yes.
Down the hall on the right. The door sticks. You have to really pull it.
I spent a week in Morocco for the story. It was incredible.
We'll have to pick up a copy.
I'm going to get started on dishes.
I'll help you.
I'm going to check on him.
I need to lie down for a bit.
I'm sorry. It seems every hour I have to...
I know. It was the same when I was carrying Will. Like clockwork.
Do you like it, being pregnant?
I do.
I loved it. It sounds peculiar, but I loved every minute of it. I did. Eddie was travelling a lot, so he was gone, but I felt like I always had a piece of him with me. A little part of his soul inside me. I could feel it. It was alive and kicking.
Oh. Oh.
Hello.
I wasn't expecting you.
Are you Jenny Hill?
I am. And you're Will. I've seen your picture, that's how I recognize you. I almost said something at the store, but it would have been awkward. Like this.
How did you know my father?
This was on his sales route, so he was through here all the time. Everyone in town knew him.
Were you and my father having an affair?
Wow. Wow, you just said it. I was expecting to dance around this for another half hour.
I've seen him with women. He flirts. He always has. On some level, I presumed he was cheating on my mother. I just never had proof.
Can I ask you a question? Why did you come here today? If you found this deed, why didn't you just ask Eddie?
Because he's dying.
Look, I don't know how much you want to know about any of this. You have one image of your father and it would be wrong for me to go and change it. Especially this late in the game.
My father talked about a lot of things he never did, and I'm sure he did a lot of things he never talked about. I'm just trying to reconcile the two.
Logically, you couldn't be the Witch, because she was old back when he was young.
No, it's logical if you think like your father. See, to him, there's only two women: your mother and everyone else.
You didn't become crazy.
Well, therapy. And one day I realized I was in love with a man who could never love me back. I was living in a fairy tale.
Wait! I need those!
There is no softer ground than town.
I've been working on this poem for 12 years.
Really.
There's a lot of expectation. I don't want to disappoint my fans.
This is why you don't show work in progress.
Norther, do you ever regret not making it to Paris?
I can't imagine any place better than here.
You're a poet. You oughta be able to. And maybe if you'd seen more, you could.
It's me. Norther Winslow.
I was astonished to see the greatest poet of both Ashton and Spectre all the way out in Texas.
I don't believe it!
I want you to know, when you left Spectre it opened my eyes. There was a whole life out there that I was not living. So I travelled. I saw France, and Africa, half of South America. Every day a new adventure, that's my motto.
That's great, Norther. I'm happy for you. I can't believe I helped.
So what are you up to now?
I'm robbing this place.
This is it? The whole vault.
'Fraid so.
Edward, it's got your deposit slip on it.
I'm sorry.
Don't need to apologize to me. I mean, I'm the luckiest person you're going to find today...
Oh.
But you're wrong. I do know you, at least by reputation. Edward Bloom from Ashton. See, I'm actually engaged to a boy from Ashton. Don Price. He was a few years older than you.
Daffodils?
They're your favorite flower.
How did you get so many?
I called everywhere in five states and explained this was the only way I could get my wife to marry me.
You don't even know me.
I have the rest of my life to find out.
How can I convince you to stop?
Go out with me.
I was drying out.
I see. We need to get you one of those plant misters. We can spray you like a fern.
You can see my predicament. My wedding ring, the symbol of fidelity to my wife, soon to be the mother of my child, was now lost in the gut of an uncatchable fish.
Make him stop.
What, a father's not allowed to talk about his son?
I am a footnote in that story. I am the context for your great adventure. Which never happened! Incidentally! You were selling novelty products in Wichita the day I was born.
Jesus Christ.
Friend of yours? Did you help him out of a bind?
Come on, Will. Everyone likes that story.
No Dad, they don't. I do not like the story. Not anymore, not after a thousand times. I know all the punchlines, Dad. I can tell them as well as you can. For one night, one night in your entire life, the universe does not revolve around Edward Bloom. It revolves around me and my wife. How can you not understand that?
The one about the witch.
Your mom says I can't tell you that one anymore. You get nightmares.
I'm not scared.
You   are in for a surprise.
Am I?
Having a kid changes everything. I mean, there's the diapers and the burping and the midnight feedings...
Did you do any of that?
No, but I hear it's terrible. Then you spend years trying to corrupt and mislead this child, fill its head with nonsense and still it turns out perfectly fine.
You think I'm up for it?
You learned from the best.
People needn't worry so much. It's not my time yet. This isn't how I go.
Really.
Truly. I saw it in The Eye.
The Old Lady by the swamp.
She was a witch.
No, she was old and probably senile. Maybe schizophrenic.
I saw my death in that eye. And this is not how it happens.
So how does it happen?
Surprise ending. Wouldn't want to ruin it for you.
There was this panhandler who used to stop me every morning when I came out of this coffee shop near the office.
Okay.
And every day I gave him a quarter. Every day. Then I got sick and was out for a couple of weeks. And when I went back there, you know what he said?
What did he say?
You owe me threefifty.
Really.
True story.
When did you ever work in an office?
There's a lot you don't know about me.
You're right.
Dad, I'm hoping we can talk about some things while I'm here.
You mean, while I'm here.
I'd just like to know the true versions of things. Events. Stories. You.
Your mother hasn't been keeping up the pool. If you wanted to you could...
I will.
You know where the chemicals are?
I used to do it when you were gone, remember? I used to do it a lot.
I thought you weren't dying.
I said this isn't how I go. The last part is much more unusual. Trust me on that.
Why not religion, Dad?
It's rude to talk about religion. You never know who you're going to offend.
Josephine actually went to the Congo last year.
Oh, so you know.
Did I ever tell you about how...
Yes.
The maple tree and the Buick. We heard it.
I think someone hasn't.
But the real story is how I got the car. You see...
Dad?
Son?
Can we talk?
Do you know much about icebergs, Dad?
Do I? I saw an iceberg once. They were hauling it down to Texas for drinking water, only they didn't count on an elephant being frozen inside. The woolly kind. A mammoth.
Dad!
What?
I'm trying to make a metaphor here.
Then you shouldn't have started with a question. Because people want to answer questions. You should have started with, "The thing about icebergs is..."
The thing about icebergs is you only see 10 percent of them. The other 90 percent is below the water where you can't see it. And that's what it is with you Dad. I'm only seeing this little bit that sticks above the water.
What, you're seeing down to my nose? My chin?
I have no idea who you are because you have never told me a single fact.
I've told you a thousand facts. That's all I do, Will. I tell stories.
You tell lies, Dad. You tell amusing lies. Stories are what you tell a fiveyear old at bedtime. They're not elaborate mythologies you maintain when your son is ten and fifteen and twenty and thirty. And the thing is, I believed you. I believed your stories so much longer than I should have. And then when I realized that everything you said was impossible  everything!  I felt like such a fool to have trusted you. You were like Santa Claus and the Easter Bunny combined. Just as charming and just as fake.
You think I'm fake.
Only on the surface. But that's all I've ever seen.
Dad, I'm about to have a kid of my own here. It would kill me if he went through his whole life never understanding me.
It would kill you, huh?
What do you want, Will? Who do you want me to be?
Yourself. Good, bad, everything. Just show me who you are for once.
I have been nothing but myself since the day I was born. And if you can't see that, it's your failing, not mine.
The river.
The river?
Tell me how it happens.
How what happens?
How I go.
I can try, Dad. If you help. Just tell me how it starts.
Like this.
Okay. Okay.
Let's get out of here.
Somehow, you're better. Different. You're getting ready to go. And I say...
Where are we headed?
You say...
The River!
It's unbelievable.
Story of my life.
You become what you always were. A very big fish. And that's the way it happens.
Yes. Exactly.
Hardly two stories in the whole place. Now I've heard in real cities, they've got buildings so tall you can't even see the tops of 'em.
Really?
Wouldn't lie to you. And they've got allyoucaneat buffets. You can eat a lot, can't you?
I can.
So why are you wasting your time in a small town? You're a big man. You should be in the big city.
You're just trying to get me to leave, aren't you? That's why they sent you here.
What's your name, Giant?
Karl.
Mine's Edward. And truthfully, I do want you to leave, Karl. But I want to leave with you. You think this town is too small for you, well, it's too small for a man of my ambition. I can't see staying here a day longer.
You don't like it?
I love every square inch of it. But I can feel the edges closing in on me. A man's life can only grow to a certain size in a place like this. So what do you say? Join me?
Okay.
Okay.
What did she say?
Beats me.
You know anyone's who's taken it?
That poet, Norther Winslow did. He was going to Paris, France. He must have liked it, because no one ever heard from him again. Tell you what. You take the other way and I'll cut through here. Meet you on the far side.
You're not trying to run away?
Just to be sure, you can take my pack.
Really.
You're lucky to get four words out of them in English. But if you were to walk through the jungle, you'd hear them speaking the most elaborate French. Those parrots talk about everything: politics, movies, fashion  everything but religion.
Hi. How are you feeling?
I was dreaming.
What were you dreaming about?
Means when you dream about something that's going to happen. Like one night, I had a dream where this crow came and told me, "Your Aunt is going to die." I was so scared I woke up my parents. They told me it was just a dream, to go back to bed. But the next morning, my Aunt Stacy was dead.
That's terrible.
Terrible for her, but think about me, young boy with that kind of power. Wasn't three weeks later that the crow came back to me in a dream and said, "Your Grampa is going to die." Well, I ran right back to my parents. My father said, no, Gramps is fine, but I could see there was trepidation. And true enough, that next morning my Grampa was dead.
Because see, my mother was banging the milkman.
No, I understand.
He was slipping her a little extra cream.
He was buttering her rolls. Pumping her churn. Splashing milk in her box.
Stop.
They were squeezing the cheese. Clanking the bottles. Licking the popsicle.
Spooning the sherbet.
Can I take your picture?
You don't need a picture. Just look up handsome in the dictionary.
Please?
That's because we didn't have a wedding. Your motherinlaw was never supposed to marry me. She was engaged to somebody else.
I never knew.
Will never told you that? Probably just as well. He would have told it all wrong anyway. All the facts and none of the flavor.
Oh, so this is a tall tale?
Well, it's not a short one.
I thought you said you didn't have a church wedding.
Well, we were all set to, but there was a complication.
Is it the medicine that's making you thirsty?
Truth is, I've been thirsty my whole life. Never really known why.
There was one time when I was eleven...
You were talking about your wedding.
I didn't forget. I was just working on a tangent. See, most men, they'll tell a story straight through, and it won't be complicated, but it won't be interesting either.
I like your stories.
And I like you.
Did you see that woman?
What did she look like?
Well, she... uh...
Was she nekkid?
Yeah.
It's not a woman, it's a fish. No one ever catches her.
How old are you?
Eighteen.
I'm eight. That means when I'm eighteen, you'll be 28. And when I'm 28, you'll only be 38.
You're pretty good at arithmetic.
And when I'm 38, you'll be 48. And that's not much difference at all.
How are you gonna make it without your shoes?
I suspect it will hurt a lot.
Promise me you'll come back.
I promise. Someday. When I'm really supposed to.
You must be Edward Bloom.
How did you know?
No one would come out here unless they had business. And no one would have business with me except for you. You're buying the town.
Apparently I've overlooked this one piece of it, and I'd like to remedy that. You see, in order for the town to be preserved, the trust must own it in its entirety.
So I've heard.
I'll offer you more than it's worth. And you know you won't have to move. Nothing will change except the name on the deed, you have my word.
In so many words, yes.
Then I don't think so Mr. Bloom. If nothing is going to change, I'd just as soon it not change in the way it hasn't been changing all this time.
It's not like you're going to lose anything. You can ask anyone in town. I've been nothing if not generous. I want the best for everyone.
Helping people makes me happy.
I'm not convinced you should be happy.
I'm sorry. Have I offended you?
You're Beamen's daughter. Your last name is different. You married.
I was 18. He was 28. Turns out that was a big difference.
I won't be selling you this house, Mr. Bloom.
I see. I thank you for your time.
It's okay, just leave it.
I can get it. I can just...
Lord, I'm sorry I...
Please. Go. Just go.
I'll...
Go.
Don't. Don't be embarrassed. I should never have let you think that... I am in love with my wife.
I know.
And from the moment I saw her until the moment I die, she's the only one.
Lucky girl.
I'm sorry, Jenny. I am.
Will.
Dr. Bennett. It's good to see you. My wife, Josephine.
A pleasure.
Can I see him?
Absolutely. Be good for you to talk to him.
Glad to see you're not trying to have a heartfelt talk. It's one of my greatest annoyances, when people talk to those who can't hear them.
My father and I have an advantage. We never talk.
How long have you known my father?
Thirty years. Maybe more.
How would you describe him?
Fiveeleven. Oneeighty. Regulated hypertension. How would his son describe him?
Did your father ever tell you about the day you were born?
A thousand times. He caught an uncatchable fish.
Not that one. The real story. Did he ever tell you that?
No.
Your mother came in about three in the afternoon. Her neighbor drove her, on account of your father was on business in Wichita. You were born a week early, but there were no complications. It was a perfect delivery. Now, your father was sorry to miss it, but it wasn't the custom for the men to be in the room for deliveries then, so I can't see as it would have been much different had he been there. And that's the real story of how you were born.
Or are you too scared?
I'll go in right now and get that eye.
Then do it.
Fine, I will.
Fine, you do it.
Fine, I'm doing it.
You get the eye?
I brought it.
Let's see it.
Bloom!
Don.
What the hell are you doing? This is my girl. Mine!
I didn't know she belonged to anybody.
Welcome to ya. What's your name?
Edward Bloom.
Bloom like a flower?
Yes.
Oh. Here! Right here. Edward Bloom. We weren't expecting you yet.
You were expecting me?
Not yet.
What is this place?
The town of Spectre. Best kept secret in Alabama. Says here you're from Ashton, right? Last person we had from Ashton was Norther Winslow.
The poet? What ever happened to him?
He's still here. Let me buy you a drink. I'll tell you all about it. Hell, I'll have him tell you.
No. I've gotta meet somebody. I'm already running late.
Now tell me if that isn't the best pie you ever ate.
It truly is.
I have to leave. Tonight.
Why?
This town is everything a man could ask for. And if I were to end up here, I'd consider myself lucky. But the fact is, I'm not ready to end up anywhere.
No one's ever left.
You won't find a better place!
I don't expect to.
Great, great. That's fantastic.
It was on that night Karl met his destiny. And I met mine. Almost.
Hey kid! Your friend just made himself a star.
That's great.
See! The big guy likes it.
I just saw the woman I'm going to marry, I know it. But then I lost her.
Tough break. Most men have to get married before they lose their wives.
I'm going to spend the rest of my life looking for her. That or die alone.
Jesus, kid. Let me guess. Real pretty, blonde hair, blue hat?
Yes!
I know her uncle. Friends of the family.
Who is she? Where does she live?
Kid. Don't waste your time. She's out of your league.
What do you mean? You don't even know me.
Sure I do. You were hot shit back in Hickville, but here in the real world, you got squat. You don't have a plan. You don't have a job. You don't have anything but the clothes on your back.
I've got a whole backpack full of clothes!
Someone stole my backpack.
Kid, you were a big fish in a small pond. This here is the ocean, and you're drowning. Take my advice and go back to Puddleville. You'll be happy there.
I don't have a job, but I would have a job if you gave me one. And I may not have much, but I have more determination than any man you're ever going to meet.
Sorry, kid. I don't do charity.
I'll work night and day, and you won't have to pay me. You just have to tell me who she is.
Didn't kill anything, did I?
A few rabbits, but I think one of them was already dead.
That would explain the indigestion.
I was wrong about you kid. You may not have much, but what you got, you got a lot of. You could get any girl.
There's only one I want.
Her name is Sandra Templeton. She's going to Auburn. The semester's almost over, so you better hurry.
Thank you.
Good luck, kid.
You motherfuckers have just made the worst mistake of your lives! You have chosen to join my Army! This Army is my mother, my father, and my little virgin sister and I will not allow anyone or anything that is not up to my standards near her pretty little virgin cooze, do you understand me  give me a sir, yes, sir!
Sir, yes, sir!
Those who I deem unworthy to pass through this camp will quit, and those who refuse to quit I will kill. You ever hear of a training accident  give me a sir, yes, sir!
Sir, yes, sir!
In my time I have killed sixteen men for the good of my country, sixteen men whose entrance into this Army I could not condone, as it would weaken the fabric of this nation's defense! This base suffers an average of three training accidents a year, unfortunate incidents that I will not hesitate to repeat if you cross me, understand  give me a sir, yes, sir!
Sir, yes, sir!
So forget what you've seen on Sixty fucking Minutes about the kinder, gentler military  you will either succeed, quit, or die by my hand!
Some of you may have heard there's a hurricane coming! American soldiers do not wait for good weather  they do not wait for a bright sunshiney day to do their duty! An American Soldier learns to operate in the worst conditions and turn said conditions into an advantage against their enemy! Anyone who thinks these conditions are too harsh, feel free to lay down and die, you get me?
Sir, yes, sir!
LZ is two clicks North of a cabin, you are to split into teams of two and work your way through your designated area blasting as many targets as you can find! Each area has twenty targets, first team to take all twenty and find the cabin wins! Teams are as follows  Dunbar and Nunez, Pike and Mueller, Kendall and Childs!
This is totally unnecessary 
He asked to see a policeman, we're getting him a policeman.
But this guy you called, he's not even Army 
He's former Army and the best I've ever seen in a room. Besides, he knows the territory, we did Basic together here. You've had three hours with Dunbar and haven't gotten a peep, we need to take a different tack.
He's not Army, it's not official 
Then it's unofficial.
Search parties for the others are fanning out in a ten click radius from the pickup. If they're hurt and we can get to them in time...
I called the JAG Corps, the two cadets we retrieved are to be flown to D.C. on a transport leaving here at 1700 
You think he did it?
No 
What do you think?
It's too neat.
You want Kendall, don't you?
He tried to burn Dunbar to us. You don't do that if you're not involved.
You both know if you do this, if you go after a Senator's son and you're wrong... it's not just me in the hot seat anymore.
We know.
I'm giving you a chance to walk away.
What happens to Dunbar now?
Gets on his plane in ten minutes, which means you two are done. You'll understand if I don't walk you out.
You never told me why you got kicked out of...
The army kicked you out for drugs...
Sign here and here. Hey, ain't you the folks workin' on that whole hulabaloo from last night?
Yeah.
Terrible tragedy. One of those Section Eight boys worked in here. Pike. Heard he got out okay.
Funny. I swear I saw them bring him and the smaller guy in this morning.
No, no that was Cadet Dunbar 
You mean Ray Dunbar? Well, that ain't right.
So?
Ma'am, Ray Dunbar's black.
Hurricane's due after midnight and we're still going out?
Toughens us up, Pike. You don't like it, quit.
What the fuck happened to you 
What the fuck happened to you? One minute you're next to me and the next you're gone and the sky lights up like fucking Christmas 
Whoever shot the Sarge blew a grenade first 
Blame the nigger, then, huh? Someone turns up dead, you just look for the darkest face in the crowd 
Thank God...
What the fuck are you doing?
This place is going, Mueller. We gotta move 
Shut the fuck up. He was gonna cut him loose.
We all know what you did, Pike. I don't know what kind of nigger voodoo you been working in here, but 
Where's your shirt, Mueller?
I used it to start the fire 
Still got mine on, not a speck of blood on it. Not a bad trick for a murderer  you said you burned yours?
Goddammit, Ray, we gotta get out of here 
We're not going anywhere.
Cadet Michael Mueller, I hereby place you under military arrest for the murder of Sergeant Nathan West 
The fuck are you talking about 
You are to be stripped of all weapons and placed under guard 
Bullshit 
Until we return to base, and ballistics can match your weapon to the slugs in Sergeant West's body 
Shut up!
Tell him to shut up 
 failure to comply with this arrest is a court martialable offense in and of itself 
We just want 
What, "The Truth"? Please. There are degrees of truth, officer, always degrees. Things are not what they seem.
He couldn't kick you out so he wanted you to quit on your own.
He wanted more than that.
He said what?
"You're gonna die tonight, faggot". Clear as day.
No one else heard it?
He whispered it in my ear.
Nunez was chasing Dunbar.
Because he'd shot Mueller.
But you didn't see it, right?
Like I said, I was in the kitchen. When I came out, Mueller and Pike were dead, Nunez and Childs were hit and Dunbar was gone.
Pike never confessed.
We've been making progress, I see.
Running out of time, are we? Tick tock, ticktock, how long till your witnesses fly the coop?
Fifty minutes.
Not much time to solve the crime. Tell me, detective, how did it feel taking blood money from Guissepe Torres? Did it weigh on your conscience or did you just not think about it?
Pike never confessed.
No, but it got you interested, didn't it? Got you to dig. Inspired Ray to tell you terribly sordid tales about drugs and creek beds and dead little sergeants who stuck their noses where they didn't belong.
Dunbar says you were.
Then he's mistaken. You know, I really don't think my father would approve of this line of questioning 
You and Dunbar got your stories straight. Little details, little inconsistencies, designed to bounce us back from one of you to the other, asking questions, killing time, until the transport arrives and whisks you away to where Senator Daddy can protect you. You think you're just going to slide out of this? You're an accessory to murder, Levi, you're going to jail 
You can't threaten me 
It doesn't matter, Levi. We're going to find those bodies and when we do, I'm going to make sure one of them has a bullet in them that matches your weapon 
What?
It won't work 
It will and you know why? Because you're not a person anymore, you're a cadet in the United States Army; you have no identity, no Miranda warning, and no rights. So I'm gonna throw you to the wolves, and unlike you, I'm gonna get away with it, because you're pissing me off!
Enjoy your flight to Washington 
Wait 
What.
Dunbar's telling the truth.
Wrong answer 
We did get our stories straight, but not because we killed anyone. It was because I threatened him.
Who, Levi 
Childs.
I told him what had really happened to West. Told him to keep quiet about it or I'd destroy him. Because if it came out that I was involved with the whole PX scam, my father would be finished.
I scared Dunbar into silence. He's been trying to cover for me the whole time. We got here, you came to see me... I didn't know if I could trust him with that kind of secret 
So you framed him. The same way Childs was going to frame Pike.
What happened with Nunez?
He came after us. And I told Dunbar he had to kill him...
Maybe we shouldn't go.
The faggot speaks.
You ever been in a hurricane, Mueller?
You ever been in a hurricane, Mueller?
We should tell him we're not going.
Oh, yeah, "Excuse me, Sergeant, sir, we don't feel like going out  we don't want to get rained on." He'll kick our asses from here to Cleveland.
They found him. Poor fucker was practically blown in half 
Poor fucker my ass...
You better watch it, faggot, I'm not sure you and Childs didn't do him 
Pike and I got separated 
Yeah and he doesn't know when 
I remember now, it was before the explosion 
Oh, you remember now 
I'm about two seconds away from seeing if fairies really can fly 
I was freezing from the hurricane 
So you took off your shirt?
To start a fire, goddammit! What about him, huh? Maybe he offed the Sarge and changed shirts, brought an extra one in his pack. Y'ever think of that? Go ahead, cut him loose! First chance he gets, he'll waste the rest of us, that's how they work 
The thing is, we've got a real opportunity here. You turn me in tomorrow and we're both fucked 
What are you talking about?
A gay Senator's son who let his Sarge get fragged on a training exercise? The press'll crucify you and your father. His career will be over and it'll be your fault. But we do this different and you come out a hero.
How?
Mueller. He's as bad as West and we both know it. Now I can't do it, cause I'm tied up, but we get the others to go along 
I don't think I want to hear this 
Someone else can do the deed, it doesn't have to be you. Maybe Nunez too, he's got a tendency to follow Mueller, but the rest of us can come out ahead  the guys who took out their Sergeant's killers! We'll move the bodies out to the creek and say we came over the hill right as they fragged West, all we gotta do is tell the story right.
Pike, please 
Although that won't matter much when coupled with the murder charge 
Hostile and uncooperative.
Fantastic. You want to tell me what's going on?
Ah, Christ
You knew Sergeant West?
He was our Drill here. Man's older than sand.
I didn't mean that as a compliment.
Sergeant West's served for twenty three years. He's the public face of the modern Army.
And you notice I'm not in the Army anymore.
Gotta be honest, I love what you've done with the place 
You and the Colonel go back.
He got me through Basic and a lot of other stuff. I owe him.
You're the Tom Hardy I've been reading about in the papers, right? New Orleans PD fired you for taking bribes from Guissepe Torres.
It was for suspicion of bribery, it's really all in the wording 
Wording and your friendship with the Colonel aside, I'm not comfortable having you involved in this.
Subtlety really isn't one of you finer points, is it, Osborne?
Three things. First  You don't have a choice. Second  I've never taken a bribe in my life. And Third  I'm still a little drunk from last night, so if I skip over the witty banter and move forward to straight hitting on you, try not to take offense. Tell me about the two guys.
Hurricane knocked out our Mainframe, so all we have are their dogtags. Cadets Raymond Dunbar and Levi Kendall 
Levi? Who names their kid Levi 
Senator Jonathan Kendall, of Ohio.
Christ... Remind me to thank Bill for mentioning that on the phone 
Kendall Junior is still in surgery, so he won't be available to answer for his name or anything else for another hour  the cadet we're talking to first is Dunbar.
He's in interrogation?
Yes.
Move him.
Why?
Because interrogation rooms look suspiciously like interrogation rooms, which doesn't exactly put people at ease. Is he cute?
Excuse me?
Is Dunbar cute?
That is the most unprofessional 
Is he handsome, self assured, carry himself well, does he look you in the eyes or down at the floor, does he have good bones, suggesting good breeding, does he slouch or sit up straight  these are important questions, as they reveal a great deal about this man's character so please get over yourself for two and a half seconds and tell me is he cute?
Thank you. At some point in there I'm gonna rub my nose. When I do, go at him with everything you got.
Good cop/bad cop?
Something like that.
I questioned him for three hours and he didn't make a sound. You don't have a badge, he won't talk to you.
Ten bucks says I have him talking in under three minutes.
The Colonel saw you shoot Nunez, you're a murderer 
See, Ray, this is what we call "good cop, bad cop". She shouts, I stand up for you, you're grateful, a bond of trust is established.
Baseball?
I believe somebody owes me ten dollars 
You made me look like an idiot 
Oh, I'm sorry, I didn't know the object of the interrogation is to make you look good  Everyone knows good cop, bad cop  by admitting it I appeared trustworthy.
You really want to make banal chit chat like that now?
You're right. We should sit in silence.
We're in the middle of a murder case 
Best time for banal chitchat.
What is that?
Microrecorder for Kendall  didn't have time to wire his room. Now tell me why you joined the army or I'll jab this pen through your neck.
Typical army brat story. Dad was noncom, Mom was a Nurse. There was never any real doubt of joining up.
You had a mobile of bayonets above your crib.
Something like that. You?
I lost a bet.
You're kidding.
Yeah. That's just the story I tell the girls to get them into bed. Truth is... I don't know. The whole honor and duty thing. Make a difference in the world, crap like that. Didn't really work out.
This is the straight hitting on me you were talking about, isn't it?
The very same.
You do understand that there's absolutely no way I could ever be attracted to you, right?
I plan to grow on you.
You're off to a late start.
So noted.
You guys really got the shit kicked out of you here.
Imagine what it must have been like for them out there. What do you think of Dunbar?
He's telling the truth, up to a point.
What point?
Something wrong?
Being back here. Gives me the willies.
Not the happiest of memories?
Remember, he's the son of a Senator, so go easy. Kid gloves.
Got it.
That was kid gloves?
Have no fear, Osborne, we have not yet begun to fight.
But we have to question him  Thought you didn't have cigarettes 
I lied. Wait for it...
"Too neat." How long have you been an investigator?
I don't think that has anything to do with 
That means under a year. Let me explain what ten years of police work has taught me  murder is basic. There are no conspiracies, no grand mysteries, and no evil puppet masters behind it all, pulling the strings; murder is shitty people doing a shitty thing to other shitty people  it doesn't always make sense but it's always neat. Dunbar's our guy.
I just... He came back for Kendall. I don't think he's capable of murder.
Everyone's capable of murder, Osborne.
Look, all we've got is what Kendall says, and he didn't actually witness any deaths except Nunez. He found West, he saw Mueller and Pike, but just their bodies  he didn't see any crime committed.
Well, I'm sure if he'd known this was all going to happen he'd have tried harder to witness it for you 
Why the fuck wasn't he in restraints?
I don't know.
Styles couldn't reassign him, he's a legend 
You knew what he was capable of and you just stood by. It was just a matter of time till somebody fragged his ass, and you know what? He deserved it. There's your confession.
Goddammit, Hardy, you can't just leave 
Watch me.
You said you owed Styles and now you're gonna turn your back on him?
West was a monster! Fifteen years ago, I was here, I was Section Eight, I was Pike. Fuck being the knife dummy  that thing he did, stripping Pike down, making him stand outside all night? He did that every year, he did that to me. Fifteen years ago, I wanted him dead, and now I'm supposed to care that somebody offed him? Sorry, no can do. I tried.
You did more than try. You cracked Dunbar in less than three minutes, as an investigator you're phenomenal 
Phenomenal at taking bribes, right?
I was starting to believe you, you know? That you weren't who everyone said. I guess I was wrong 
Oh, spare me the reverse psychology bullshit! This isn't my "great second chance", Osborne. Everyone thinks I'm a piece of shit cop who took money and nothing is going to change that. Nobody will ever know what happens here 
But you will.
Why do you care?
Because it's my job. Because people are dead. Because of the whole honor and duty thing, make a difference in the world, crap like that. We can do this, Hardy.
I didn't shoot West...
What?
Dunbar... He said he didn't shoot West. West wasn't shot, Kendall said he was blown apart by a phosphorous grenade and Dunbar never saw the body.
At least you and Kendall agree on that.
What happened next?
Talk it through: Childs, Mueller, and Nunez know they're going out on the regular Tuesday Night drill, hurricane or no hurricane, so they plan it: Kill West, pin it on Pike.
And they're smart about it. They know when you commit a crime you know is going to be investigated, you need a fall guy and for that to work, you have to have a witness.
Dunbar.
Exactly, someone who's not involved, who's word can't be questioned. You only let them see what you want them to see, you make them believe, so when the time comes, they've totally bought into your version of events.
They believe the innocent are guilty and the guilty are innocent.
And if they're asked, that's what they'll tell the, world.
So it's a good plan but it goes wrong; Mueller flips out and shoots their fall guy, which means they have to bring Dunbar and Kendall into the cover story 
Kendall maybe would have agreed, but the hurricane buttfucks the cabin 
Buttfucks the cabin?
And all hell breaks loose. A lot of Good guys shoot a lot of bad guys and whiz, bang, zoom, happy ending.
So why, after Dunbar drags Kendall out from under a house, does the Senator's son try and get us to put his savior in the gas chamber?
That bugs you too?
Little bit.
Let's go talk to Bill...
We're fucked, I know 
They got their stories straight.
What?
What Kendall said  "the type of guys you don't feel comfortable going to sleep around." That's what Dunbar said about Childs to the letter.
Are you sure?
Positive. Hardy, they planned this.
Why don't you talk to Levi off the record for a second?
Good idea.
That's a fantastic idea 
See, I just take your gun to the morgue and fire it into one of their skulls; then I call every newspaper in the country with the story about how Senator Kendall's gay son went nuts on a training mission 
I pushed him too hard.
You couldn't have known 
Yeah, I could've. Should've.
You wanted to get the truth.
No, I didn't. I wanted to humiliate him. For what he did to Dunbar. For fucking over the little guy.
You mean the falsely accused?
You wanted to break him.
Yeah.
So did I.
So what now?
Now I go home, get drunk, and try and forget this ever happened.
Think it'll work?
Nah.
You know, you never told me why you left the army.
It dawned on me one day that we were supposed to be a nation founded on the principle of questioning authority... and all I did here was follow orders. It didn't add up. Plus, I got kicked out.
For what?
That's gonna stay my secret.
We were close to something with Kendall.
Maybe... Maybe we were nowhere near. Sometimes mysteries stay mysteries. I haven't by any chance grown on you, have I?
No.
Good, just making sure.
Four 
Get in.
We got maybe three minutes till they break it down.
Right back where we started.
Hardy, what are you doing 
Isn't this how your story goes?
We can tie you to the chair if it'll work better for you 
Hardy, for Chrissakes 
WHERE'S WEST'S BODY?
No bodies, no West...
No death certificates. No crime.
We need to talk 
Seven.
What?
Seven guys. What was it you said? You were "just starting to believe I wasn't the guy people said".
This isn't the time 
This is the perfect time. You know what makes a good detective? The number of confessions they get. You're a good detective, Osborne. So now you get mine.
What if I don't want it?
Tough.
That's not true.
There are degrees of truth, officer. Always degrees.
You're a good man, Hardy.
Really.
Far as I'm concerned, whatever you did in the past can stay in the past.
West?
Nobody saw. But I don't think so.
Do I have a choice in this?
Yeah. I can wait till you're off the base and do it myself.
What are you doing out here?
Leaving without saying goodbye. What are you gonna do?
Go home, get drunk, and try and forget this ever happened.
Think it'll work?
Nah.
Want company?
A word of advice about women  that first hour or so after they kill their boss? Probably not the best time to hit on them.
I should probably write that down.
Yeah.
Your phone number?
In case you need me to testify about the shooting. They'll clear you.
He was your friend.
Yeah. But he was a lot of other things, too. Thanks.
How are you?
Been better. I read about what's been happening with you... I should have called 
What kind of trouble are you in?
That bad?
Would I have called you if it wasn't? If there was any other way 
Tell me what I can do.
This is Warrant Officer Julia Osborne, the closest thing we have to an in house investigator.
And here you are going out of house. How's that make you feel, Jules?
The official term for it is "Clusterfuck". By the time Beth hit us, I'd canceled all off base exercises save one  a six man cadet team and their Drill out in the bush. We're missing three and the Sergeant. The cadets are in their eighth week of the cycle, nobody here knows much about them, up to and including their names. But the Sergeant...
It's not West, is it? Tell me it's not West.
A few years ago, the Army picked our good buddy as their go to noncom to trot out to the press to talk about the kinder, gentler military. He even did the standard video greeting played to all incoming Basic cadets across the country.
Well, he's a good soldier.
The exercise was one of his Section Eight "private sessions". Left around 2100 yesterday and were scheduled for pick up at 0630 this morning.
And the problem is you only got three.
No, the problem is one's dead, one's got a bullet in his arm, and one won't talk. The one who won't talk was trading live fire with the dead one as we reached the pickup.
I'm assuming that's what made him the dead one?
Cadet Roberto R. Nunez. Killed right in front of me.
Which gives us about five hours. Why'd you call me?
The guy in interrogation said he'd only talk to a cop.
And I'm the closest thing to it, right?
Tom, bottom line: I let those kids go out there. If JAG shows up and I don't have any answers for them, my career is finished 
I'm not gonna let that happen.
He's not done by a longshot, I can get more out of him 
He can wait. Kendall's out of surgery.
Pike killed West, Dunbar killed Mueller, Childs, and Nunez.
Who killed Pike?
Someone must have got a shot off. He wasn't exactly a moving target.
We've already been over the terrain twice. Nothing.
There was a hurricane, Bill, the wind probably moved it.
Habeas Corpus  you have to have a body to have a crime.
Okay, then let's widen the search to include the endzone in Giants Stadium and the trunk of my car 
Without the body we have no physical proof. We need a confession.
From Dunbar? I hate to break this to you, but I don't think he's gonna be all that psyched to put himself in for the death penalty.
Nevertheless 
Nevertheless what'? Kendall will testify and that'll be enough.
Not for me.
You mean not enough to save you.
JAG gets here in three hours. Try for the confession.
Tom, where are you going 
Home, I'm done.
What about the confession?
You want a confession? Why don't you confess, Bill: people are dead and you don't give a shit about it! Only reason you called me is to protect your fucking job, you know this is your fault 
What the hell are you talking about 
I'm talking about West! We had him, Bill, we were there. You're the fucking Base Commander, you knew what he did to Cadets and you let him go on the way he always he has 
What I said before 
Was dead right. You think Dunbar's on the level?
Yeah.
Does Osborne agree?
It's over. Time of death was 4:42. JAG's been notified and I called the Senator myself. My report will reflect that his medical condition made this unavoidable... you two had no culpability in the matter.
That's horseshit and you know it.
Maybe. But it's my fault and I'll carry it.
You think you could explain all this to me?
I wouldn't know where to start. I guess it was about one man framing another. He thought if the other guy got blamed, people would over look his own wrong doings.
They're taking your command, aren't they?
The Senator...
I'm sorry, Bill.
Don't be. I'm not cut out to deal with the West's of the world.
You're a good soldier, Bill.
I thought you said that wasn't a compliment.
It was so good, I actually forgot you're one of the bigger dogs now. The Base Commander. The one in control. You couldn't let him testify, could you?
What are you talking about?
If you let him testify then it would have all come out. West was supposed to take care of it out there, shut Nunez up and then disappear. But it got messy and people got killed. So you called your old pal Tom Hardy, figuring if worse came to worse, he'd cover for you.
You're drunk 
I'm not going to cover for you, Bill. Not for this.
Stay where you are.
Or what? You've gone round the bend 
West had a partner. Someone who knew how to get things done.
What I can't understand is why you signed these. If you'd just let West take care of the paperwork, no one would have known, but you got careless. So when Pike finally told the truth you had to get rid of him, too.
That's preposterous 
Toxicology report came back. Kendall's attack was caused by a drug known as anephadrine, maybe you've heard of it. It's for asthmatics. If an epileptic takes enough, it kills them. I checked with the nurses at the hospital  you're the only other person who visited Kendall.
I wanted to see if he was okay 
You poisoned him, Bill. You heard our interrogation, you knew he was ready to crack, so you killed him, just like Pike.
I'm not even going to dignify that 
No! You will stand there and you will listen! What happened to you, Bill? You were the one who joined up to do good in the world. You were the one who believed in it 
You want to get into a finger pointing contest about character? The army kicked you out for drugs, the cops fired you for taking bribes from a mobster, and you think you can stand there and lecture me on codes of conduct? There's only one criminal standing in this room and it's you.
Not for long.
No more witnesses. West's a ghost. But it doesn't matter because we have your signature, the hospital log, and Kendall's toxicology report. And that'll be enough.
You're crazy 
You can't duck this, Bill. I may have done every goddamn thing in my life wrong but I won't let this happen.
For the last time, I have no idea what you're talking about 
Get your hands away from the desk!
You... I've seen you around the Base. But you... You're not Army, are you?
Coast Guard, special detective detail. We feel this incident may have put the beaches of Florida at risk.
That's it. You're that policeman with friends in low places. Tell me, how's Guissepe Torres doing these days? Those racketeering indictments must have really been a downer 
Levi, you got about four hours before armed men show up here, put you on a plane to Washington, and lock you in a very small dark room. I suggest you talk to us.
I've done nothing wrong. I'm the victim here.
But not the only victim, right?
My, my, my, how did things turn so hostile so quickly? If I didn't know better, I'd say you two were out to get me.
My father is a powerful man. Over the years he's used that power to protect me, in one form or another, from certain... unpleasantries. I am a homosexual.
Senator Daddy must be thrilled.
He is not, shall we say, wild about the idea. He has asked me on numerous occasions to be more discreet about my proclivities, and I have done my best to oblige him. However, in the last four weeks, I began a relationship with another cadet. What do you think of that?
I think you just blew "Don't Ask, Don't Tell" out of the fucking water.
The Sergeant discovered this relationship and wanted me expelled. My father interceded, so instead, West Sectioned me and made sure every other cadet knew that I was gay.
Levi, I don't know if you're familiar with investigative work, but we have this little thing called "motive" and you just gave yourself one.
You said you wanted to know what happened  I'm telling you the truth.
What happened to "degrees"?
I didn't kill him 
Then who did?
Maybe I shouldn't tell you that. Maybe I should tell you I wasn't scared at all. But I was... Enough to almost kill him.
But you didn't.
No. Poetic justice, though.
He admitted it.
Right in front of us. Mueller went after him but we held him back.
Why did he come back for you?
I honestly don't know. Maybe to have someone to cover for him. And I wish I could, but there's no doubt in my mind he killed those men.
Okay. I think that's it. He rises and walks to the door.
Mr. Hardy?
Somebody emptied a full clip into him 
Stop.
You tried to pin three stone murders on Dunbar 
How many murders did you cover up? One? Five? Maybe an even ten.
Can I go to jail for punching a guy who's been shot?
Epileptic attacks are murder on your system. Rattle your internal organs like a paint mixer.
My heart weeps.
Is it the truth?
There's that word again. As I told you, I wasn't in the room when everyone started shooting.
Why did you tell us he shot everybody, Levi? You put him in for three murders, the man saved your life 
So I should stay silent about his misdeeds? The guns went off, I ran in, Childs shot me, Pike and Mueller were dead, and Dunbar was running out the door with the smoking gun 
Dunbar was running out the door? Ohhhhhh... See that's where I was confused, because I thought you said Nunez was running out the door.
No. I said Dunbar.
Huh. You know, I really thought you said Nunez. I thought you said "Dunbar was gone," My fault, I gotta check the tape on that. Oh, yeah we taped the last interview. This one too. Cause it'd be a real break for us to catch you in a lie.
I believe your next line is "What are you trying to hide?"
Well?
Sorry to disappoint. I'm on painkillers for the injury  they cloud the mind. You're right, it was Nunez. Any more questions?
Dunbar will testify that you were.
Then we'll leave it up to the courts  His word against mine. What does his father do again? Steelworker? Doesn't matter, I'm sure justice will be served. In any case, my father will definitely want to talk to you about all these questions, these accusations on his son. He's quite protective.
Something funny, Levi?
I was just thinking of what's going to happen to your careers when my father gets through with you.
Jail if he's lucky, the gas chamber if he's not 
I didn't do anything 
Why?
Because of what I saw. Who really killed West.
How do you know?
Because I was standing next to him.
Or you, Levi? When is it finally going to come out that you were the one who killed him?
I didn't 
But you can't prove it! You can't prove anything until we find the bodies!
You lied to us, Levi, you're going to the gas chamber unless you tell us where to find them!
I don't know 
Where are they!
Maybe 
MAYBE WHAT 
Maybe he...
Whose blood is that, Jay?
West's. Any kindling for afire?
What do you mean, West's?
I mean I killed him. Isn't that what we all wanted?
Where have you been, Jay?
Wandering through a hurricane trying to find this place. It's gettin' bad out there  Where's West?
Roberto, what the fuck?
We just want to check your pack 
Why?
You know it's not like that 
Do I?
Right?
Yeah...
You gotta untie me. I didn't do this thing, Ray.
You hated West more than any of us.
Maybe, but that don't make me a killer 
You're the only one missing a grenade.
Which anyone coulda taken out of my gear on the chopper. Were you watching your pack on the ride in?
Ray, this is my life here. I ain't gonna pretend I'm not happy West is gone, but you know I couldn't have done this. It's not in me.
If not you, then who?
Mueller.
Oh, come on 
We're sweeping our area and suddenly he's gone. Couple minutes later, phosphorous grenade pops off about a third of a click away 
That's exactly what he says about you.
Who you gonna trust, Ray? Him or your friend?
You hated West, Mueller loved him 
Enough to go to prison? Childs' PX scam, Mueller was in on it 
Bullshit.
Look in my pack.
Why?
Just look. Little pocket.
Combat grade morphine. Mueller sold it to me.
You're lying 
Pull up my sleeve. Right arm.
Why... why didn't you tell me?
Becoming a morphine addict during Basic ain't exactly something you want to broadcast. Only Mueller and Childs know.
That still doesn't mean you didn't kill him.
You saw West, right? How was he killed?
Full clip to the body 
From up close or far away?
His chest was hamburger 
That's close range. You go full auto on a guy from close range, you're gonna be swimming in blood. Look at my uniform. Nothing.
Way I figure it, West must have found out about their little business and was gonna bust them, so they decided to get rid of him first...
They?
Mueller and Childs. One of them must've taken the grenade from my pack on the chopper...
I... I don't know...
What don't you know?
This is a lot of information to be getting... I have to think 
There's no time to think, Ray, we gotta get out of here! You untie me, we grab the guns, get Kendall and Nunez, and make a run for it 
No... no, we can just wait till we get back and then tell the M.P.'s 
We wait and I'm a dead man. I got a black face, a criminal record, and over a hundred other cadets who'll testify how much I hated West  my court martial will take six minutes. It's either me or them, Ray, and you gotta decide right now.
A test will no doubt link you to the killing 
Put it down!
He wouldn't kill anybody...
Oh, bullshit, he's a fucking convict. You know how much he hated West 
I hated West, Childs hated West, everyone with a goddamn brain hated West but that doesn't mean we killed him!
Shut up. Let me see your grenades.
Why?
We were each given three so whoever killed West will be missing one.
Jesus, what happened?
West... he's dead.
Pike and I got separated... then I heard gunfire. Close.
So did we. Why didn't you come?
So you killed him?
I...
Cadet, what's your name!
Sir, Dunbar, sir!
You know how to work a pistol, Dunbar?
Sir, yes, sir!
Dunbar you are to stand here and guard this nigger for the next twenty four hours! He is not to be given food, water, or clothes! If he so much as moves, you are to blow his nigger brains out, is that clear?
Sir, yes, sir!
The rest of you, fallout for physicals!
What the fuck is going on?
Your weapons, Sergeant.
Are you saying Sergeant West tried to kill you?
No, ma'am, he just wanted us to quit. Making it through was kind of an honor. Some of the other guys on the base told us that if you could hack Section Eight, Command would consider you at the top of the class.
That first night with Pike. I made the mistake of letting him sit down at around 0300.
Tell us about the other guys, the ones West weeded out.
There were six of us...
He was sickly. Had that shaking thing, whatd'yacall it, epoxy?
Epilepsy.
Yeah. Spent half his time in the infirmary. Only reason he enlisted was his father. West didn't section him till last week.
He said he worked there 
No, did he tell you about it? About the business Childs ran?
What business?
Pills, shots, you name it, Basic's a lot easier when you don't feel pain 
Where?
The creek bed 
What about the phosphorous grenade?
One went off, yeah, but it didn't touch him  I thought you knew this 
Back up.
Mueller was alone in the cabin?
Yeah.
Why didn't you tell us all this in the first place?
Would you have believed me?
Where's the cabin?
Don't know on a map. West told us it was there, we just found it. Maybe the hurricane took it away.
You kept Kendall alive to corroborate your story and he did it all they way up to the end. You even gave him his own motive in case we decided to burn him, too.
Can't do that now, though, can you?
Is that what I did, now? And of course, you can prove all of it.
We can prove that you're not Ray Dunbar. Impersonating a fellow Cadet is a courtmartial in and of itself 
Did I ever claim I was Raymond Dunbar? Was I ever told to state my name rank and serial number for the record? No. You assumed who I was, because I was wearing this uniform. Don't believe me?
Ohhhh, I don't think so...
How do you know that?
Just a guess. Maybe they're not where they're supposed to be. Maybe somebody moved them. Habeas Corpus  no bodies, no crime, and Nunez still plays as self defense. Face it detectives... you have nothing.
Why not?
I asked for a policeman.
You're under military arrest, it's not gonna happen. What's wrong with baseball?
It's... too slow.
Well, it's a game of anticipation, that's the beauty.
I just don't like it.
What do you like then?
I don't know... I like the Army.
C'mon, Ray, everyone hates the Army during Basic. I'll tell you straight, I hated it here.
You did Basic here?
Fifteen years ago under Sergeant West. Piece of work, that guy. I remember, he used to have these two silver .45's with ivory handles and if you weren't quick enough, he'd knock you on the head with one of them. He still carry those guns?
There's no need...
They're dead, aren't they?
Right. Now, I'm gonna go get you another donut and you think about whether you want to talk more, okay?
Okay.
Why'd you ask for a cop, Ray?
I'm not telling you what happened.
Okay... but I would like to know about the other cadets. What they were like  nice guys?
Some.
Tell me about them.
And those were the guys who went on the exercise with you?
Yeah. And that's all I'm saying.
You smoke, Ray?
This is one of those interrogation tricks, isn't it? You don't give me a cigarette till I tell you more.
No, actually, I just left mine in the car and was hoping you had some.
Hey, Ray! Just had a nice talk with your buddy Kendall  seems you killed three people!
That son of a bitch.
That'd be my reaction too 
He's lying.
Well, why didn't you say so? We'll just drop all your charges, then 
I'm serious 
Fuck "you're serious", Raymond, you got exactly zero truck with us; right now we'd take the word of a crackhead over yours, so if you've got something to say, say it.
Did Kendall tell you about the PX?
So Childs made some side money, so what? People are dead, Ray, and the only one we have to blame is you 
I didn't shoot West 
Yeah, we know, Pike did.
I apologize 
You saw West's body.
Of course 
And he'd been shot.
Yeah 
You shot Childs and Nunez.
They would have killed us both. You want me to write a confession, I'll write a confession.
You saved Kendall's life 
But not Pike's.
Raymond, for you to have any chance of coming out of this, we need to locate the other bodies and examine them to corroborate your testimony. Otherwise this is just another story 
Mr. Hardy, I joined the army for college money. I didn't ask for any of this  I tried to do the right thing out there and people got killed. You say finding those bodies'll help me, then go find them. I don't want to die.
We're not finished yet 
You wanna bet?
We don't need the tapes 
Oh, you don't? What else do you have on me? You haven't found any bodies yet, have you?
We've found all of them.
Not true, Cadet, I've got a gun 
Jesus!
He  He made me do it 
Do what?
Hunting  we had to hunt him 
I guess Nunez wasn't dead after all. He came after us with a vengeance. You know the rest.
And the bodies?
You won't find them. Won't find West, either. He's too good.
I promised them I'd ask you where West and the others are...
Washout rejects, guys he said were "dumbfucks too stupid to know they dead"...
He's telling the truth up to a point...
We finished the course and came here, then heard an explosion  Where's Pike?
We don't know. West is dead.
What about you, wandering around alone? At least we have an alibi 
What do you mean, alone?
Holy fuck... Holy fuck, what the fuck did you guys do?
We found him like this...
Yeah, right...
Shut up. West's dead.
You too?
We can still come out of this okay. Pike got free, he got a gun, he came after us. That's the story.
This isn't our area. Whose area is this 
Can anybody hear me!
Hey, I  Holy fuck... holy fuck, what the fuck did you guys do?
We found him like this 
You killed him you fucking faggot 
We found him like this! Kendall was with me the whole  Listen to me!
We got  I don't know, we got separated
Before or after the explosion? Mueller 
I don't know!
Shut the fuck up, you fucking faggot, You just shut the FUCK UP.
HEY!
West was one thing, but this 
Shut up, Mueller.
Don't you ever point a gun at me!
I'm  I'm sorry...
A target, Kendall, cap a fucking target. What's wrong with you?
I thought I was gonna have an attack. Go into a fit and bite off my own tongue in the middle of the bayou. Childs could tell I wasn't right.
Just safety your shit and get behind me, okay? I'll take care of this.
Fuck, what the fuck is going on 
What do we do?
Whoever it is isn't shooting at us...
I don't want to go 
Fine.
Did  did you 
It was the grenade you fucking idiot. Look at him!
What about Pike?
Maybe he'll be there. Either way, we have to go.
He is the only one unaccounted for.
Maybe he's dead too. Maybe you killed them both, Mueller 
You framedhim...
None of that matters now. We got two dead bodies and a story that explains them. You're either with us, or against us  which is it?
Don't like 'em, don't eat 'em, don't make no damn difference to me.
You know that was like a quadruple negative?
Can I at least have a drink?
It's ten thirty in the morning.
Yeah, if you've slept.
You know the law  no liquor before noon. Could lose my license.
Don't you mean "don't need no liquor license not taken away from me"?
Hurricane kept you up, too?
Yeah, and I could've used the sleep. I'm supposed to meet people here tonight, try and get some work going.
Bill Styles...
Who?
Old friend. Haven't talked to him in  911. Can I use your phone?
Charming Schuvaloff.
Blackeyed Sczortarska.
Dark Valdez.
Do you expect me to believe that your lover brought you here tonight?
Yes. He brought me in his carriage, and he will call for me at midnight.
And he doesn't care about me?
He is only curious to know who you are.
If his love were like mine, he would not permit you to come here.
He loves me, as I love you.
Will he wish to know the details of this night?
He will believe that it will please me if he asks about it, and I shall tell him everything except some circumstances which might humiliate him.
Tender Hegenheim.
I made Sir William Cosgrove's acquaintance as usual at the play table. One could not but admire the spirit and gallantry with which he pursued his favorite pastime; for, though worn out with gout and a myriad of diseases, a cripple wheeled about in a chair, and suffering pangs of agony, yet you would see him every morning, and every evening at his post behind the delightful green cloth.
Hang it, Mr. Roderick James, you have no more manners than a barber, and I think my black footman has been better educated than you; but you are a young fellow of originality and pluck, and I like you, sir. because you seem determined to go to the devil by a way of your own.
Indeed, you are right, sir. Look at me. Marriage has added forty years to my life. I am dying, a wornout cripple, at the age of fifty. When I took off Lady Cosgrove, there was no man of my years who looked so young as myself. Fool that I was! I had enough with my pensions, perfect freedom, the best society in Europe  and I gave up all these, and married and was miserable. Take a warning from me, Mr. Roderick, and stick to the trumps. Do anything, but marry.
Would you have me spend my life all alone?
In truth, sir, yes, but, if you must marry, then marry a virtuous drudge.
The milkmaid's daughter?
Well, why not a milkmaid's daughter? No man of sense need restrict himself or deny himself a single amusement for his wife's sake; on the contrary, if he selects the animal properly, he will choose such a one as shall be no bar to his pleasure, but a comfort in his hours of annoyance. For instance, I have got the gout; who tends me? A hired valet who robs me whenever he has the power. My wife never comes near me. What friend have I? None in the wide world. Men of the world, as you and I are, don't make friends, and we are fools for our pains.
Sir William Cosgrove, with his complication of ills, was dying before us by inches. He was continually tinkered up by doctors, and, what with my usual luck, he might be restored to health and live I don't know how many years. If Cosgrove would not die, where was the use of my pursing his lady? But my fears were to prove groundless, for on that very night, patient nature would claim her account.
Good evening, Mr. James, have you done with my lady?
I beg your pardon?
Come, come, sir. I am a man who would rather be known as a cuckold than a fool.
I think, Sir William Cosgrove, you have had too much drink. Your chaplin, Mr. Hunt, has introduced me into the company of your lady to advise me on a religious matter, of which she is a considerable expert.
Gentlemen, see this amiable youth! He has been troubled by religious scruples, and has flown for refuge to my chaplin, Mr. Hunt, who has asked for advise from my wife, Lady Cosgrove, and between them both, they are confirming my ingenious young friend in his faith. Did you ever hear of such doctors and such a disciple?
Faith, sir, if I want to learn good principles, it's surely better I should apply for them to your lady, and your chaplin than to you?
He wants to step into my shoes! He wants to step into my shoes!
Well, if my intentions are what you think they are  if I do wish to step into your shoes, what then? I have no other intentions than you had yourself. Lady Cosgrove's wealth may be great, but am I not of a generous nature enough to use it worthily? Her rank is lofty, but not so lofty as my ambition. I will be sworn to muster just as much regard for my Lady Cosgrove as you ever showed her; and if I win her, and wear her when you are dead and gone, corbleu, knight, do you think that it will be the fear of your ghost will deter me?
Is it not a pleasure, gentlemen, for me, as I am drawing near the goal, to find my home such a happy one; my wife so fond of me, that she is even now thinking of appointing a successor? Isn't it a comfort to see her; like a prudent housewife, getting everything ready for her husband's departure?
I hope that you are not thinking of leaving us soon, knight?
Not so soon, my dear, as you may fancy perhaps. Why, man, I have been given over many times these four years, and there was always a candidate or two waiting to apply for the situation. Who knows how long I may keep you waiting.
Sir, let those laugh that win.
I am sorry for you Mr. James. I'm grieved to keep you or any gentleman waiting. Had you not better to arrange with my doctor or get the cook to flavor my omelette with arsenic? What are the odds, gentlemen, that I don't live to see Mr. James hang yet?
Did you buy the horse, papa?
Now, just have a little patience, my boy. Your birthday isn't until next week.
But I will have it on my birthday, won't I?
Well, we'll just have to wait and see, won't we?
Good night, papa.
Good night, my little darling.
Papa?
Yes?
One of the boys in the stable told Nelly that you've already bought my horse, and that it's at Doolan's farm, where Mick the groom is breaking it in. Is that true, papa?
What the devil? What kind of fools do we have here? Pottle, who told the lad this story?
I promise your lordship a good flogging if you even so much as go to Doolan's farm to see him.
Yes, papa.
Your bother is in America fighting the rebels.
Is he all right, papa?
Yes, he's fine.
Brooksy was better than you, papa, he used not to swear so, and he taught me many good things while you were away.
I have good news for you, Mr. Cosgrove. The firm of Bracegirdle and Chatwick, in the city of London, are prepared to lend you 20,000 pounds, pledged against your interest in the Edric mines. They will redeem the encumbrances against the property, which amount to some 10,000 pounds, and take a twenty year working lease on the mines. They will lend you the 20,000 pounds against the lease income, which they will apply to the loan as it comes in, and they will make a charge of 18% per annum interest on the outstanding loan balance.
Mr. Newcombe, I have made some difficult loans during the past few years, at very onerous terms, but 18% a year interest seems very stiff indeed.
Considering your financial circumstances, Mr. Cosgrove, it has been impossible to find anyone at all prepared to do any business with you. I think you may count yourself lucky to have this opportunity. But, obviously, if you would reject this offer, I shall keep trying to find a better one.
I am prepared to accept the terms, Mr. Newcombe.
There are a few other points we should discuss. The loan agreement can only be executed by her ladyship's signature, and provided that Bracegirdle and Chatwick can be assured of her ladyship's freewill in giving her signature.
Provided that they can be assured of her ladyship's freewill? Are you serious?
May I be quite frank with you?
Yes, of course.
Mister Bracegirdle said to me that he had heard her ladyship lives in some fear of her life, and meditated a separation, in which case, she might later repudiate any documents signed by herself while in durance, and subject them, at any rate, to a doubtful and expensive litigation. They were quite insistent on this point, and said they must have absolute assurance of her ladyship's perfect freewill in the transaction before they would advance a shilling of their capital.
I see.
When I asked them in what form they would accept her ladyship's assurances, they said that they were only prepared to accept them if her ladyship confirms her written consent by word of mouth, in their presence, at their countinghouse in Birchin Lane, London. I requested they come here, and save her ladyship and yourself the inconvenience of the trip to London, but they declined, saying that they did not wish to incur the risk of a visit to Castle Hackton to negotiate, as they were aware of how other respectable parties, such as Messrs. Sharp and Salomon had been treated here.
What has happened, madam, to annoy your ladyship?
Oh, I am grateful to you, sir. I am the wife of Captain O'Reilly hastening to join him at Dublin. My chair was stopped by a highwayman; this great oaf of a servantman fell down on his knees, armed as he was, and though there were thirty people in the next field, working, when the ruffian attacked, not one of them would help but, on the contrary, wished him "good luck."
Be off to your work, you pack of rascals, or you will have a good taste of my thong. Have you lost much?
Everything  my purse, containing upwards of a hundred guineas, my jewels, my snuffboxes, watches. And all because this blundering coward fell to his knees...
That fool didn't know what was the meaning of a hundredpound bill, which was in the pocketbook that the fellow took from me.
I am riding to Dublin myself, and if your ladyship will allow me the honor of riding with you, I shall do my best to protect you from further mishap.
But I shouldn't like to put you to such trouble, Mister...?
O'Higgins... Mohawk O'Higgins.
As you have been robbed of your purse, may I have permission to lend your ladyship a couple of pieces to pay any expenses which you might incur before reaching your home?
That's very kind of you, Mr. O'Higgins.
How different was her lively rattle to the vulgar wenches at Kilwangan assemblies. In every sentence, she mentioned a lord or a person of quality. To the lady's question about my birth and parentage, I replied that I was a young gentleman of large fortune, that I was going to Dublin for my studies, and that my mother allowed me five hundred per annum.
You must be very cautious with regard to the company you should meet in Dublin, where rogues and adventurers of all countries abound. I hope you will do me the honor of accepting lodgings in my own house, where Captain O'Reilly will welcome with delight, my gallant young preserver.
Does this assignment interest you?
Yes, Minister, I am interested in any work in which I can be of service to Captain Galgenstein.
Was he cheated?
In so far as I can tell these things  no. I believe the Chevalier won the money fairly.
Hmmmmmm.
A meeting with the Prince of Turbingen is impossible.
The Prince left him only that choice.
The King has determined to send the Chevalier out of the country.
When is he to go?
Then this must be done tomorrow.
What is to be done?
And, to be sure, I did know someone who knew precisely how these things were done, and this was the distinguished solicitor and former Government Minister, Lord West, whose acquaintance I made, as I had so many others, at the gaming table.
Do you happen to know Gustavus Adolphus, the thirteenth Earl of Crabs?
By name only.
Well, sir, this nobleman is one of the gentlemen of His Majesty's closet, and one with whom our revered monarch is on terms of considerable intimacy. I should say you would be wise to fix upon this nobleman your chief reliance for the advancement of your claim to the Viscounty which you propose to get.
Have you done, Mr. Cosgrove?
Yes!
Well, Mr. Cosgrove, I'll answer you point by point. The King is exceedingly averse to make peers, as you know. Your claim, as you call them, have been laid before him, and His Majesty's gracious reply was, that you were the most impudent man in his dominions, and merited a halter, rather than a coronet. As for withdrawing your support from us, you are perfectly welcome to carry yourself whithersoever you please. And, now, as I have a great deal of occupation, perhaps you will do me the favor to retire, or tell me if there is anything else in the world in which I can oblige you.
I am at your service, Mr. Cosgrove. How much do you wish to spend?
As much as possible.
As much as possible?
Yes, for I wish to entertain splendidly.
All the same, you must name an amount.
It is entirely up to you. I want the best.
Last month, the Duke of Suffolk spent no more.
All right, five hundred guineas.
I accept, but I insist on a wager. The loser must do whatever the winner pleases.
Agreed.
Do you see the gate at the end of the field? The first to touch it will be the winner.
I feel the ribbon.
Then you must get it.
Why are you shaking?
With pleasure at finding the ribbon.
I hate Miss Clancy, you know I do! And I only danced with her because  because  the person with whom I intended to dance chose to be engaged the whole night.
I had not been in the room five minutes before I was engaged for every single set.
Were you obliged to dance five times with Captain Best, and then stroll out with him into the garden?
I don't care a fig for Captain Best; he dances prettily to be sure, and is a pleasant rattle of a man. He looks well in his regimentals, too; and if he chose to ask me to dance, how could I refuse him?
But you refused me, Dorothy.
Oh! I can dance with you any day, and to dance with your own cousin at a ball as if you could find no other partner. Besides, Roderick, Captain Best's a man, and you are only a boy, and you haven't a guinea in the world.
If ever I meet him again, you shall see which is the best man of the two. I'll fight him with sword or with pistol, captain as he is.
But Captain Best is already known as a valiant soldier, and is famous as a man of fashion in London. It is mighty well of you to fight farmers' boys, but to fight an Englishman is a very different matter.
Suppose, now, Roderick, you, who are such a hero, was passing over the bridge and the enemy on the other side.
I'd draw my sword, and cut my way through them.
What, with me on the pillion? Would you kill poor me?
Well, then, I'll tell you what I'd do. I'd jump Daisy into the river, and swim you both across, where no enemy could follow us.
Jump twenty feet! You wouldn't dare to do any such thing on Daisy. There's the captain's horse, Black George, I've heard say that Captain Bes 
Monster! Your father was a tailor, and you are always thinking of the shop. But I'll have my revenge, I will! Roddy, will you see me insulted?
Indeed, Miss Dorothy, I intend to have his blood as sure as my name's Roderick.
No.
Have you had one?
Never.
But, for a time... a passing fancy?
Not even that.
How can I believe that there is not a man who has inspired desires in you?
Not one.
Have you not a man whom you value?
That man has, perhaps, not yet been born.
What! You have not met a man worthy of your attention?
Many worthy of attention; but valuing is something more. I could value only someone whom I loved.
Then you have never loved? Your heart is empty.
Your word "empty" makes me laugh. Is it fortunate, or unfortunate? If it is fortunate, I congratulate myself. If it is unfortunate, I do not care, for I am not aware of it.
It is nonetheless a misfortune, and you will know it when you love.
But if, when I love, I am unhappy, I will know that my empty heart was my good fortune.
That is true, but it seems to me impossible that you should be unhappy in love.
It is only too possible. Love requires a mutual harmony which is difficult, and it is even more difficult to make it last.
I agree; but God put us on earth to take that risk.
A man may need to do that, and find it amusing; but a girl is bound by other laws.
I believe you, and I see I must hasten to leave, for otherwise I shall become the unhappiest of men.
How so?
By loving you, with no hope of possessing you.
You want my heart?
It is my only object.
To make me wretched in two weeks.
To love you until death. To subscribe to all your commands.
The amusing thing is that you deceive me without knowing, if it is true that you love me.
Deceiving someone without knowing it is something new for me. If I do not know it, I am innocent.
But you deceive me nonetheless if I believe you, for it will not be in your power to love me when you love me no longer.
Be so good as to tell me with whom you think you are?
With a woman who is completely charming, be she a princess or a woman of the lowest condition, and who, regardless of her rank, will show me some kindness, tonight.
And if she does not choose to show you some kindness?
Then I will respectfully take leave of her.
You will do as you please. It seems to me that such a matter can hardly be discussed until after people know each other. Do you not agree?
Yes  but I am afraid of being deceived.
Poor man. And, for that reason, you want to begin where people end?
I ask only a payment on account today  after that, you will find me undemanding, obedient and discreet.
Will we always leave it at this?
Always, my dear one, never any further. Love is a child to be pacified with trifles. A full diet can only kill it.
I know better than you do. Love wants a more substantial fare, and if it is stubbornly withheld, it withers away.
Our abstinence makes our love immortal. If I loved you a quarter of an hour ago, now I should love you even more. But I should love you less if you exhausted my joy by satisfying all my desires.
Let us give each other complete happiness, and let us be sure that as many times as we satisfy our desires, they will each time be born anew.
My husband has convinced me of the contrary.
Sir William Cosgrove is a man who is dying, and yet I envy him more than any man in Christendom. He enjoys a privilege of which I am deprived. He may take you in his arms whenever he pleases, and no veil keeps his senses, his eyes, his soul from enjoying your beauty.
Shall I tell you something  I believed what was called love came after the union  and I was surprised when my husband, making me a woman, made me know it only by pain, unaccompanied by any pleasure. I saw that my imaginings had stood me in better stead. And so we became only friends, seldom sleeping together and arousing no curiosity in each other, yet on good terms for a while, as whenever he wanted me, I was at his service, but since the offering was not seasoned with love, he found it tasteless, and seldom demanded it.
O, my dearest love. Enough! I beg you. Stop believing in your experience. You have never known love. My very soul is leaving me! Catch it on your lips, and give me yours!
Without you, my dearest, I might have died without ever knowing love. Inexpressible love! God of nature! Bitterness than which nothing is sweeter, sweetness than which nothing is more bitter. Divine monster which can only be defined by paradoxes.
Let me give a thousand kisses to that heavenly mouth which has told me that I am happy.
As soon as I saw you loved me, I was pleased, and I gave you every opportunity to fall more in love with me, being certain that, for my part, I would never love you. But after our first kiss, I found that I had no power over myself. I did not know that one kiss could matter so much.
We then spent an hour in the most eloquent silence except that, from time to time, her ladyship cried out: "Oh, my God. Is it true  I am not dreaming?"
My Lady Cosgrove's relationship with me was a singular one. Her life was passed in a series of crackbrained sort of alternation between love and hatred for me. We would quarrel for a fortnight, then we should be friends for a month together sometimes. One day, I was joking her, and asking her whether she would take the water again, whether she had found another lover, and so forth. She suddenly burst out into tears, and, after a while, said to me:
Roderick, you know well enough that I have never loved but you! Was I ever so wretched that a kind word from you did not make me happy? Ever so angry, but the least offer of goodwill on your part did not bring me to your side? Did I not give a sufficient proof of my affection for you in bestowing one of the finest fortunes of England upon you? Have I repined or rebuked you for the way you have wasted it? No, I loved you too much and too fondly; I have always loved you. From the first moment I saw you, I saw your bad qualities, and trembled at your violence; but I could not help loving you. I married you, though I knew I was sealing my own fate in doing so, and in spite of reason and duty. What sacrifice do you want from me? I am ready to make any, so you will but love me, or, if not, that at least, you will gently us me.
Lady Cosgrove, you are an old fool.
Old fool!
I entered here, monsieur, at a bad moment for you; it seems that you love this lady.
Certainly, monseigneur, does not Your Excellency consider her worthy of love?
Perfectly so; and what is more, I will tell you that I love her, and that I am not of a humor to put up with rivals.
Very well! Now that I know it, I will no longer love her.
Then you yield to me.
On the instant. Everyone must yield to such a nobleman as you.
Very well; but a man who yields takes to his legs.
That is a trifle strong.
Take to your legs, low Irish dog.
You are the young man who M. de Seebach recommended?
Yes, sir. Here is my letter.
Your name is Lazlo Zilagyi?
Yes, sir.
You come highly recommended by Herr Seebach.
Herr Seebach was a very kind employer.
For whom else have you worked?
No one, sir. Before that I served in the army but had to leave due to weakness of the loins.
Who else can give me information about you?
Only the agency of servants.
And I think he was as much affected as I was at thus finding one of his kindred; for he, too, was an exile from home, and a friendly voice, a look, brought the old country back to his memory again, and the old days of his boyhood.
I'd give five years of my life to see the old country again, the greenfields, and the river, and the old round tower, and the burying place.
The cards are now my only livelihood. Sometimes I am in luck, and then I lay out my money in these trinkets you see. It's property, look you, and the only way I have found of keeping a little about me. When the luck goes against me, why, my dear, my diamonds go to the pawnbrokers and I wear paste. Do you understand the cards?
I can play as soldiers do, but have no great skill.
We will practice in the mornings, my boy, and I'll put you up to a thing or two worth knowing.
But they will prevent a meeting at whatever the cost.
Have no fear. It will come out well for me.
I believe they will deport you.
I have faced that problem before.
But, if they send you away, then what is to become of me?
Make your mind easy, you shall not be left behind, I warrant you. Do take a last look at your barracks, make your mind easy, say a farewell to your friends in Berlin. The dear souls, how they will weep when they hear you are out of the country, and, out of it, you shall go.
But how, sir?
Gentlemen, I wish you a good day. Will you please go to the house from whence we set out this morning, and tell my man there to send my baggage on to Three Kings at Dresden?
Then ordering fresh horses, the Chevalier set off on his journey for that capital. I need not tell you that I was the Chevalier.
When the Duke of Courland brought fourteen lackeys each with bags of florins, and challenged our bank to play against the sealed bags, what did we ask?
Sir, we have but eighty thousand florins in bank, or two hundred thousand at three months; if your highness' bags do not contain more than eight thousand, we will meet you.
It is distasteful to kill a scoundrel  that should be work for a hangman.
To risk one's life against such people is an imposition.
I risk nothing, for I am certain to kill him.
Certain?
Perfectly certain, because I shall make him tremble.
Where is my rascal, Lazlo?
I will let down the steps for your honor.
Good gracious! What is this?
You are going to drive to the frontier.
It is shameful  infamous! I insist upon being put down at the Austrian ambassador's house.
I have orders to gag your honor if you cry out, and to give you this purse containing ten thousand frederics if you do not.
Ten thousand? But the scoundrel owes me seventy thousand.
Your honor must lower his voice.
All Europe shall hear of this!
As you please.
I have no luggage.
The gentleman has nothing contraband.
Chevalier, though I cannot say how, I believe you have cheated me.
I deny your Grace's accusations, and beg you to say how you have been cheated?
I don't know.
Your Grace owes me seventy thousand frederics, which I have honorably won.
Chevalier, if you will have your money now, you must fight for it. If you will be patient, maybe I will pay you something another time.
Your Grace, if I am so tame as to take this, then I must give up an honorable and lucrative occupation.
I have said all there is to be said. I am at your disposal for whatever purposes you wish. Good night.
Mr. O'Higgins, I cannot say how grateful I am for your timely assistance to my wife.
I am only sorry that I was unable to prevent the villain from carrying off all her ladyship's money and pearls.
Mr. O'Higgins, we are in your debt, and rest assured, sir, you have friends in this house whenever you are in Dublin. Mister O'Higgins, I wonder if I know your good father?
Which O'Higgins do you know? For I have never heard your name mentioned in my family.
Oh, I am thinking of the O'Higgins of Redmondstown. General O'Higgins was a close friend of my wife's dear father, Colonel Granby Somerset.
Ah  I see. No, I'm afraid mine are the O'Higgins of Watertown.
I have heard of them.
Whom have I been harboring in my house? Who are you, sirrah?
Sirrah! Sirrah, I am as good a gentleman as any in Ireland!
You're an impostor, young man, a schemer, a deceiver!
Repeat the words again, and I run you through the body.
Tut, tut! I can play at fencing as well as you, Mr. Roderick James. Ah! You change color, do you? Your secret is known, is it? You come like a viper into the bosom of innocent families; you represent yourself as the heir to my friends the O'Higgins of Castle O'Higgins; I introduce you to the nobility and gentry of this methropolis; I take you to my tradesmen, who give you credit. I accept your note for near two hundred pounds, and what do I find? A fraud.
This is a pretty way to recommend yourself to the family.
The man that marries Dorothy Dugan must first kill me  do you mind that?
Dorothy might love me or not, as she likes, but Best will have to fight me before he marries her!
Faith, I think you are a lad that's likely to keep your word.
A pretty day's work of it you have made, Master Roderick. Knowing your uncle to be distressed for money, and try and break off a match which will bring fifteen hundred ayear into the family? Best has promised to pay off the four thousand pounds which is bothering your uncle so. He takes a girl without a penny  a girl that has been flinging herself at the head of every man in these parts these ten years past, and missing them all, and a boy who ought to be attached to your uncle as to your father.
And so I am.
And this is the return you make for his kindness! Didn't he harbor you in his house when your father died, and hasn't he given you and your mother, rentfree, your fine house of Jamesville yonder?
Mark this, come what will of it, I swear I will fight the man who pretends to the hand of Dorothy Dugan. I'll follow him if it's into the church, and meet him there. I'll have his blood, or he shall have mine. Will you take my message to him, and arrange the meeting?
Well, if it must be, it must. For a young fellow, you are the most bloodthirsty I ever saw. No officer, bearing His Majesty's commission, can receive a glass of wine on his nose, without resenting it  fight you must, and Best is a huge, strong fellow.
He'll give the better mark. I am not afraid of him.
In faith, I believe you are not; for a lad I never saw more game in my life. Give me a kiss, my dear boy. You're after my own soul. As long as Jack Grogan lives, you shall never want a friend or a second.
Have you taken my message to him?
The meeting is arranged. Captain Best is waiting for you now.
My mare is saddled and ready; who's the captain's second?
Your cousins go out with him.
That's a very handsome sword you have there.
It was with this sword that my late father, Harry James, God rest his soul, met Sir Huddelstone Fuddelstone, the Hampshire baronet, and was fatally run through the neck. He was quite in the wrong, having insulted Lady Fuddelstone, when in liquor, at the Brentford Assembly. But, like a gentleman, he scorned to apologize.
And now you risk the same fate. If you are killed, your mother is all alone in the world.
I am Harry James' son, and will act as becomes my name and quality.
I hope to spoil this sport, and trust to see this sword of mine in that big bully's body.
Oh, it's with pistols we fight. You are no match for Best with the sword.
I'll match any man with the sword.
But swords are today impossible; Captain Best is  is lame. He knocked his knee against the swinging park gate last night, as he was riding home, and can scarce move it now.
Not against Castle Dugan gate, that has been off the hinges these ten years.
It must have been some other gate.
Look here, Roderick, my boy; this is silly business. The girl will marry Best, mark my words; and as sure as she does, you'll forget her. You are but a boy. Best is willing to consider you as such. Dublin's a fine place, and if you have a mind to take a ride thither and see the town for a month, here are twenty guineas at your service. Make Best an apology, and be off.
A man of honor dies, but never apologizes. I'll see the captain hanged before I apologize.
Grogan gave me a wink of recognition, but offered no public token of acquaintance and it was not until two days afterwards that he called me into his quarters, and then, shaking hands with me cordially, gave me news which I wanted, of my family.
I had news of you in Dublin. Faith, you've begun early, like your father's son, but I think you could not do better than as you have done. But why did you not write home to your poor mother? She has sent halfadozen letters to you in Dublin.
I suppose she addressed them to me in my real name, by which I never thought to ask for them at the post office.
We must write to her today, and you can tell her that you are safe and married to "Brown Bess."
I see you are thinking of a certain young lady at Duganstown.
Is Miss Dugan well?
There's only six Miss Dugans now... poor Dorothy.
Good heavens! Whatever? Has she died of grief?
She took on so at your going away that she was obliged to console herself with a husband. She is now Mrs. John Best.
Mrs. John Best! Was there another Mr. John Best?!
No, the very same one, my boy. He recovered from his wound. The ball you hit him with was not likely to hurt him. It was only made of tow. Do you think the Dugans would let you kill fifteen hundred ayear out of the family? The plan of the duel was all arranged in order to get you out of the way, for the cowardly Englishman could never be brought to marry from fear of you. But hit him you certainly did, Roderick, and with a fine thick plugget of tow, and the fellow was so frightened that he was an hour in coming to. We told your mother the story afterwards, and a pretty scene she made.
The coward!
He has paid off your uncle's mortgage. He gave Dorothy a coach andsix. That coward of a fellow has been making of your uncle's family. Faith, the business was well done. Your cousins, Michael and Harry, never let him out of their sight, though he was for deserting to England, until the marriage was completed, and the happy couple off on their road to Dublin. Are you in want of cash, my boy? You may draw upon me, for I got a couple of hundred out of Master Best for my share and, while they last, you shall never want.
My companion treated me with great civility, and asked me a thousand questions about England, which I answered as best I might. But this best, I am bound to say, was bad enough. I knew nothing about England, and I invented a thousand stories which I told him; described the king and the ministers to him, said the British ambassador in Berlin was my uncle, and promised my acquaintance a letter of recommendation to him.
What is your uncle's name?
O'Grady.
Oh, yes, of course, Ambassador O'Grady...
This is a very good inn. Shall we stop for dinner?
This may be a very good inn for Germany, but it would not pass in old Ireland. Corbach is only a league off, let us push on for Corbach.
Do you want to see the loveliest woman in Europe?
Ah! You sly rogue, I see that will influence you.
The place seems more a farm than an innyard.
The people are great farmers, as well as innkeepers.
Where's the beauty you promised me?
It was my joke. I was tired, and did not care to go farther. There's not prettier woman here than that. If she won't suit your fancy, my friend, then you must wait awhile.
Upon my word, sir, I think you have acted very coolly.
I have acted as I think fit.
Sir, I'm a British officer.
It's a lie! You're a deserter! You're an impostor, sir; Your lies and folly have confirmed this to me. You pretend to carry dispatches to a general who has been dead these ten months; you have an uncle who is an ambassador and whose name you don't know. Will you join and take the bounty, sir, or will you be given up?
Neither!
Good morning, Private James. Please come in. I should like you to meet my uncle, Herr Minister of Police Galgenstein.
How do you do, sir?
The captain was the nephew and heir of the Minister of Police, Herr Galgenstein, a relationship which, no doubt, aided in the younger gentlemen's promotion.
Your loyalty to me and your service to the regiment has pleased me very well  and now there is another occasion on which you may make yourself useful to us; if you succeed, depend on it, your reward will be your discharge from the army, and a bounty of 100 guineas.
What is the service, sir?
There is lately come to Berlin a gentleman in the service of the Empress Queen, who calls himself the Chevalier de Belle Fast, and wears the red riband and star of the pope's order of the Spur. He is made for good society, polished, obliging, a libertine, without prejudices, fond of women, of good food, of high play, prudent and discreet.
You are a Hungarian; you served in the army, and left on account of weakness in the loins. He gambles a great deal, and wins. Do you know the cards well?
Only a very little, as soldiers do.
I had thought you more expert. You must find out if the Chevalier cheats. He sees the English and Austrian envoys continually, and the young men of either ministry sup repeatedly at his house. Find out what they talk of, for how much each plays, especially if any of them play on parole. If you are able to, read his private letters, though about those which go to the post, you need not trouble yourself  we look at them there. But never see him write a note without finding out to whom it goes, and by what channel or messenger. He sleeps with the keys of his dispatchbox with a string around his neck  twenty frederics, if you get an impression of the keys.
What are the Chevalier's intentions?
I am not sure. The Prince told him quite clearly that if he wished to have the money, he would have to fight for it.
Has he sent the challenge yet?
Not yet, but I believe he intends to.
You say he drives after breakfast and before dinner. When he comes out to his carriage a couple of gendarmes will mount the box, and the coachman will get his orders to move on.
And his baggage?
Oh! That will be sent after him. I have a fancy to look into that red box which contains his papers, you say; and at noon, after parade, shall be at the inn. You will not say a word to any one there regarding the affair, and will wait for me at the Chevalier's rooms until my arrival. We must force that box. You are a clumsy hound, or you would have got the key long ago.
Hoitytoity! John Best, what's the matter here?
I'll tell you what it is, Mr. Dugan. I have had enough of Miss Dugan here and your Irish ways. I ain't used to 'em, sir.
Well, well! What is it? We'll make you used to our ways, or adopt English ones.
It's not the English way, for ladies to have two lovers, and, so, Mr. Dugan, I'll thank you to pay me the sum you owe me, and I resign all claims to this young lady. If she has a fancy for schoolboys, let her take 'em, sir.
Pooh! Pooh! Best, you are joking.
I never was more in earnest.
And, I'll tell you what, Mr. Dugan, I've been insulted grossly in this house. I ain't at all satisfied with these here ways of going on. I'm an Englishman, I am, and a man of property; and I  I 
If you're insulted, and not satisfied, remember there's two of us, Best.
Both of us ride home with Best here.
I'm not afraid of highwaymen. My man is armed, and so am I.
You know the use of arms very well, Best, and no one can doubt your courage; but Michael and I will see you home for all that.
There's nothing else for it. Take your ground, Grogan  twelve paces, I suppose?
Ten, sir, and make them short ones, do you hear, Captain Grogan?
Don't bully, Mr. Best. Here are the pistols. God bless you, my boy; and when I count three, fire.
Good day to you, young sir.
Good morning.
Where are you bound for?
That is none of your business.
Is your mother not afraid on account of the highwayman to let one so young as you travel?
Not at all, sir. I have a pair of good pistols that have already done execution, and are ready to do it again.
People show their happiness in a lot of different ways.
Well, homeboy, looks like he's at a funeral.
A lot?
Enough.
So what's up with you?
What do you want to know?
The good stuff.
I'm an asthmatic. Been one all my life. Can't go anywhere without an inhaler.
What else?
Are you trying to rap to me?
This is a nice place. It must have cost a pretty penny.
Sloan, I got it like 'dat.
Oh you do, huh?
Just a little something' somethin'.
I hope you save a little somethin' somethin'.
Gots no intention of ending up broke.
Y'know, at the beginnin' of the century, AfricanAmerican had to perform in blackface. You ever heard of Bert Williams? He was a great artist.
No, before my time.
You don't read, do you?
Never read a book in my whole life.
Maybe you need to start.
Maybe I need to do a lot of things.
Bert Williams and the rest, they had to black up. They had no choice. They were considered 3/5ths of a human being. Did you know that's written in the Constitution of the United States?
Why all of a sudden are you flippin' on me? This blackface thing was part of the deal from the gitgo. Don't even try to play it like you ain't a part of all this. You down with Delacroix.
I just don't want you and Cheeba to get hurt.
We can look out for ourselves.
Why don't you call him?
For what? He left. Not me.
You're sure this is a good idea.
My people love me.
I'll be down front. You better start putting your face on.
Y'know what?
What?
You look beautiful like that.
How did you get this gig?
Worked my black ass off, first as an intern, then worked my way up to this position.
You leave something out?
After my internship expired, Dela was impressed and offered me a position as his assistant.
And?
And what?
Stop playing me Sloan.
Just ask me what you want to know.
Oh, you gonna make me say it.
Say what, Manray?
Did you ever sleep with DeLa?
We did it one time, only once. It had nothing to do with the job, it was stupid. Everything I've got I've earned.
Aw, c'mon.
That's ancient history. That has nothing to do with you and I.
So you say. Sloan, you wuz gonna use me up just like you used Dela? Work it to the top. I never imagined people in this biz could flip on you like "IHOP." I'm damn happy DeLa fired ya ass.
Forget about me, are you a puppet for DeLa?
Don't try to change to the subject.
Why don't you answer?
I know I won't be your puppet.
You can go now.
I wuz leaving anyway, for good.
This is my best friend Sleep 'N Eat.
And this is my very best friend Mantan.
We both left the hustle and bustle of Uptown, Harlem...
...the big apple, New York, New York.
To come back to our roots.
Our Alabamy Home. Now we're getting countrified. We is Bama's.
No mo' "city slickers." Ahh, can't you smell the sweet aroma of the ripe watermelons and high cotton?
Tell 'em what you mean Mistuh Mantan.
Well, thank you Mistuh Sleep 'N Eat.
Give or cousins some of dem educated feets.
Cousins, I want all of you to go to your windows. Go to your windows and yell. Yell, I'm tired of the drugs, the crack babies born out of wedlock to crackhead aids infested parents. I'm tired of the inflated welfare rolls while good wholesome Americans bring less and less of their paycheck home every two weeks. I'm tired, you're tired, we're all tired of these socalled bible thumping God fearing, whore mongling Professional athletes. Aren't you tired of these basketballdunking, footballrunning, hophip rapping ebonicspeaking sex offenders who got ten kids from ten different Ho's? I know I am and so is Sleep 'N Eat.
You tellin' the truth.
Go to your windows and yell out, scream with all the life you can muster up inside your assaulted, bruised and battered bodies. I'M SICK AND TIRED OF NIGGERS AND I'M NOT GONNA TAKE IT ANYMORE!
Y'know my lady Lucindy?
The one with da big...
Not her, the one with the little...
Oh her.
Tomorrow is her birthday and I want to get her something really nice, like a...
No, not that. How 'bout...
She hates dem.
Too bad. How 'bout a dress?
Sleep 'N Eat, one of dem slinky, sexy, little foxy...
Mantan, way too short, too tight. Get her one of dose...
...to big. The inbetween one, not too tight, not too lose.
That'll work. I just bought one for myself.
Not for me, my woolly headed cotton pickin' friend for...
I thought you got rid of...
...that was Vicki, her best friend. Dat dress will cast ya round...
...dat's too much money. I can't 'ford it. I needs me a dress that cost no mo' than...
...aconite get it dat cheap.
I'll buy her a less expensive dress, so I can have some money left over to take her out to dinner.
We should go out on a double date.
I heard ya lady is wild.
No. That's her second cousin. Who's married to Li'l Bit.
Oh, because on our first date, she let me...
...no, she didn't...
...yes she did.
...I heard different, thought that was...
...not that time...
So when are you comin' to pick us up?
Around...
...too early...
...then what about...
...too late, maybe around...
...perfect...
That's what I like about you and me. We git along...
...like macaroni and cheese...
...like grits and butter...
...like fried and chicken...
I fell out of my bed last night.
You slept too near where you got in?
I slept too near where I fell out.
You expect the unexpected in circumstances of that peculiarity.
Sleep 'N Eat, what's the matter with you? Using all dose ten dollar words?
Mantan, it is possible that my hyphenated sentences are entirely too complex for all the intellect contained in that diminutive coconut?
Hold on, you allegorical hypothesis. Don't cross words with me.
Ain't Jemima on the pancake box?
Dat's yo Uncle Ben. That reminds me, I've seen a lot of troubles lately.
How be dat?
I don't know who I am.
Well, I'll be an Alabama porch monkey's uncle.
Years ago I married a widow who had a grownup daughter. My daddy visited us often, fell in love with my stepdaughter and married her. Thusly he became my soninlaw and my stepdaughter became my mother because she was my father's wife. Soon after dis my wife gave birth to a son, which of course was my father's brother inlaw and my uncle, for he was the brother of my stepmother. My father's wife also became the mother of a son. He was of course my brother and also my grandchild for he was the son of my daughter. Accordingly, my wife was my grandmother because she was my mother's mother.
Sleep 'N Eat, I was my wife's husband and grandchild at one and the same time. And lo' and behold, as the husband of a person's grandmother is his grandfather, I Mantan, became my own grandfather.
Mantan, dat sho' is a whopper.
I feel a song a comin' on.
A song a comin' I feel.
Our guest tonight is the extraordinary, talented performer, Mantan. Thanks for coming in.
Tavis, thank you for having me.
Before we begin, I want to thank you for coming on my show for your first television interview. You could have chosen Mike Wallace, Barbara Walters, Jane Pauley, whatnot but you're here.
I'm more comfortable around my people.
Let's jump right into it. Your show has sparked a world of controversy, provoked a tone of dialogue. How do you see all of this?
Yo, Tavis, check it out. This is the twoone, the 21st century and it's all about the money. Like my man Mase says, "it's all about the Benjamins."
Money and nothing else?
Money makes the world go round. It ain't no joke being poor. I know whatI'mtalkin''bout. Y'knowwhatI'msayin'? I've lived on the street. I've been homeless. I've learned how to play the game, work the game, be in the game.
Is it inevitable that the game plays you?
No if you go with the flow, Tavis. That's what a lot of Negroes don't understand. Protesting isn't gonna do a damn thing. If people don't like our satire in our number one hit show then don't watch it. Or better yet write your own show. Do it better.
Don't you feel that is a simplistic retort?
I don't know what a retort is, but it's simple. Mantan  The New Millennium Minstrel Show is UNIVERSAL. It's not just for Negroes in Compton or 125th in Harlem. This is America. Our ancestors helped build this country, we got a right, just like everybody else. I'm not gonna box myself in. This show makes people think, and they're laughing at the same time.
I admit, that's a very hard thing to do. Quickly let's go to the phones before we pay the bills and hear from our proud sponsors, DA BOMB. 125% PURE PLEASURE MALT LIQUOR. IT MAKES YOU WANNA GET YA FREAK ON AND TIMMI HILLNIGGER. 125% AUTHENTIC GITTOE GEAR WHEN YOU WANT TO BE GITTOED FABULOUS.
I never had a really real pair before.
You've never had any formal training, either?
Not a class, not a thing, just picked stuff up by myself.
I wish I had your natural talent. God only makes that visit once in a while.
You sing and dance?
A little. I just graduated from NYU film school. Cinema studies.
So what's up with you and DeLa?
What do you mean?
Are you and him kicking it? Knocking boots. Y'knowwhatI'mtalkin'bout.
No, we're not knocking boots. I got this internship while I still was at NYU, DeLa was impressed with my get up and go and hired me to be his assistant.
I'm sure that was the only thing he was impressed with. You look beautiful like that.
If that was suppose to be a compliment, I thank you.
You're welcome. You shouldn't give up on performing.
Why do you say that? You've never seen me.
I think that would probably make you the happiest. When I'm hoofing, I mean really doing my thing, hitting it, nothing compares to that feeling in the world.
I envy you. That's the way I want to feel about my work.
I know all of you have seen the overnight ratings. Through the roof. But in this game you gotta be one, two, three steps ahead. I introduce you to Myrna Goldfarb. She's the best media consultant in the biz.
First, I would like to say I love the show. It's very courageous. My parents marched in Selma, Alabama with Dr. King.
Myrna is here to help us plan our strategy.
The best defense is offense.
The Mantan Manifesto. Catchy ain't it? Number One. We gainfully employ African Americans, in front of and behind the cameras. Two. Let the audience decide. Three. Who put these critics in charge? These socalled cultural police? Four. Who determines what is black? Five. Mantan is a satire. Six. If they can't take a joke, "F" 'em.
We all stick to this, it's smooth sailing.
Let Myrna finish.
Thank you. And always smile.
Yes you!
This show was created, conceived by you, a nonthreatening African American male. Voila. End of argument. It can't be racist because you're black.
Nice to meet you. If you don't mind me asking you  how old are you?
I just turned twenty.
Where are you from?
Helsinki, which is the capital of Finland.
Finland.
You know, Finlandia vodka? Yes?
Yes, I know. Jukka, have you ever seen a Negro person before? Even had a real conversation with a real Negro before?
What's a Negro.
A fiasco. A disaster. A boondoggle. An abomination.
Did you just ask me what's a Negro? I'M A NEGRO!!!
Ahhh!!! I never heard of that term before. I thought you were BLACK of AfricanAmerican. No?
Well before there was BLACK or AFRICAN AMERICAN, there were NEGROES. I'M A NEGRO.
Thank you for correcting my ignorance. I'm looking forward to working side by side with you. I feel we make a good team.
How did you get this gig?
My visual style is very erotic, sexy, how do you say  hot?
This is a TV show, not a music video.
Then will you teach me what I need to know. Maybe we learn from each other, if that's possible, no?
This is a travesty. A debacle.
Good luck, Jukka. Do a good show.
Thank you very much. I always try my best.
You must think I'm some kind of fool.
It looks delicious.
You hear me talkin' to you. The only time you come up here when something is wrong.
C'mon, Mommy, don't start with that I'm an ungrateful son stuff.
I said no such thing. All I said is that something must be wrong.
How's the food?
Can't beat it with a hammer. Well, since you asked, it looks like I may have a new show, a pilot being shot.
That's wonderful. Isn't that what you always wanted, a show of your own?
It was. It is. But this is a different kind of show.
If at first it's not what you want, just work that much harder, Peerless.
Mommy, please don't call me that.
Son, Peerless is your name. Now you might be one of these Hollywood types, change your name and all that but Peerless Dothan is on your birth certificate.
I know what's on my birth certificate. You heard from Daddy?
I guess he's still on the road. What kind of show is this? Are they some Negroes in it without being buffoons?
To answer your question, there are a lot of Negroes in it and what is your definition of buffoons?
Peerless, I didn't raise a buffoon. We have enough of those on television already.
Please let me know when you hear from Daddy, get a number or something.
I will. And good luck with your show. I hope it's a huge success. You've worked very hard. You deserve it.
Peerless, your father called.
I'll be right over.
He wants you to come and see him.
He said that?
Yes he did.
Where is he?
He's performing at some place outside of Richmond, Virginia.
I can't go all the way down south.
Richmond is not all the way down south.
I don't even know why you're still concerned over him. Daddy's not with you.
Regardless, he still is your father.
It's gonna be hard for me to get away with the show taking off.
Even more reason to see him. He'll be overjoyed with your success.
C'mon, Mommy. Daddy hasn't been impressed with anything I've ever done. From winning my fifth grade Spelling Bee to the present.
Peerless, last time, go see your father.
I'm doing okay. Been reading about your show, it's all over everywhere. I watched it's all over everywhere. I watched it once. I thought you said there would be no buffoonery.
You going to attack me too. The show is a hit. Aren't you happy for me?
Of course I'm happy for you. You've worked very hard for your success.
Yes I have, very hard. Has Daddy called?
No.
Not at all?
You know how your Daddy is.
If and when he calls, please don't forget to ask him if he's seen Mantan.
I won't forget. When are you coming up here to see your mother?
Soon.
I'm happy for all of us. It's just we have a great responsibility now. The pressure is on.
Pressure? DeLa, you don't know what the hell real pressure is. SHEEETT!!! This is lightstuff. Now when you scramblin' out on the street in da January winter and the hawk is talkin' to you with NO money and NO prospects of money anytime soon, now that there is some pressure.
I didn't mean it to sound like that.
That's the way it came out. Let me ask you one question. Have you ever been in want, in need your entire privileged life?
Now I'm privileged?! Why? Because I didn't grow up on food stamps and welfare? Because I didn't call home a cardboard box? No, I never ever went to bed hungry and I'm proud of it, too. Whoever told you that living in poverty earns you somekind of badge of honor flat out lied to you.
The point I'm trying to make is that this is a blessing. It's going to be fun doing this show and we should all look at it that way.
Can I kiss you too?
Naw. I'll take the zero.
You feel good, not nervous?
I feel fine.
Not nervous? Relaxed?
Sloan, will you take your boss out of here so I can get ready.
So they can be on TV.
You sound like the media.
This is nothing. It will blow over by tomorrow.
Same thing Giuliani said.
Tomorrow it will be all about cruelty to animals or some sex scandal. Besides, there is no such thing as bad publicity.
No joke. Serious.
Hope the same thing doesn't happen to me. That's some big shoes to fill.
In time.
What are you? A man or a mouse? Are you a punk? Punking out on me?
No.
You getting scared because some people don't like what you are doing?
Yo, DeLa, they tried to lynch my black ass up in dat piece.
You've made it from the guttermost to the uppermost. Don't you know you should never let them see you sweat. Y'knowwhatI'msayin'?
Yeah.
And now is definitely not the time to bitch up.
You shouldn't even be mad at me over Sloan.
What you did is dead wrong.
Oh, is it? Buddy boy, in this business if people don't produce, they get fired.
Sloan is the hardest working person I've ever met.
Let me ask you a question, if I may. How do you think she got the job in the first place? I don't mean to burst your bubble, Mantan the Marvelous, but Sloan is an opportunity.
I don't believe it.
Do I have to spell it out for you? In fact, go ask Sloan yourself.
Mantan, we got a show to tape.
My name is Manray, goddamnit.
Kook and the Gang, it's Manray. Let's do the taping. You go back to your dressing room, get dressed and blacken up.
Yes, your name?
He, I'm Mona.
Hi, Mona.
I perfectly understand where you're coming from. As a minority I can relate to your struggle also. But I think you should give us all a chance. We want this pilot to be successful just as much as you. Please don't be so quick to judge us based only on our whiteness.
Oh, is that what I'm doing?
This thing was rigged, the deck was stacked, the fix was in. Could Don King be near? Good thing Sloan had my back. She's my rock. This was going to be a whole lot of work.
David, I appreciate your comments. Anybody got an ideas? Everybody just talk out loud.
I've always liked the format of Rowan and Martin's "LAUGHIN."
How was it?
Why didn't you tell me about this staff meeting?
Nobody told me anything.
What good are you if you don't tell me stuff like this?
It wasn't my fault. If I would have known, I would have known.
Manray!
Manray!
How did you know?
It hit me like a ton of bricks.
How can this be? You and me at the same time, the exact same thought. It's scary.
The idea was out there in the universe. Now what?
Manray was under our nose the whole time.
Do you know how you will use him?
Not yet, but this thing will never get made.
You lost me.
Dunwitty wants a Coon show. And that's what I'm going to give him, it's going to be so racist, so negative, he won't have the balls to put it on the air. Hence I'll prove my point.
What point is that?
The point being that him, the networks don't want Black people on television unless they are buffoons.
Sounds risky to me.
You getting cold feet?
I'm in till the end.
Good. I'm going to need your support.
Can't you just quit? Walk away?
And lose out on my money? The only way I get paid is if I get fired. And that's what I intend to do.
Maybe something happened to them. Maybe they're lying in an alley bleed to death.
Manray better not be bleeding to death. I need him. After we're done he can do whatever he wants to do, until then, he's ours.
Hello.
This is Cheeba.
You okay?
I feel like somebody hit me upside da head with a sledgehammer.
What is your problem?
My problem is MANTAN THE NEW MILLENIUM MINSTREL SHOW.
Why did you even come up with that shit if you didn't want it made?
It was the principle. Dunwitty had to be enlightened. I was making a point. I take pride in my work. Plus, I already told you I wasn't gonna walk away from my money.
Fuck da money. Why do through all this effort? Why? Are you looking for love from Dunwitty? For respect? Dunwitty and his likes don't give a goddamn about you. So now what are you gonna do?
Even if money wasn't an issue, Dunwitty will still go ahead without me and that could be more dangerous.
What's the chances of MANTAN being picked up?
I wouldn't bet against it. My Negroidal ass is stuck between the proverbial rock and a hard place.
Like I said, all this for some twisted, distorted sense of principal. Dunwitty, he just tolerates your Negroidal ass, he doesn't respect it.
Good morning, for those of you who don't know me, I'm Pierre Delacroix. I'm running things and this here is my assistant Sloan Hopkins.
Hello.
I've never worked with any of you and you've never worked with me so we'll be starting from scratch. I'm a fair person, a straight shooter and I don't hold my tongue. Everybody up in here should know I had nothing to do with you being hired.
This is the group I was telling you about.
Which one is your brother?
The big one.
You've said that already.
I'm gonna slit my wrists. Cut my throat. For the love of Joseph.
Just want to say good luck.
Break a leg.
Your life will never be the same.
Let's leave the man in peace so he can get ready.
We both lied to him.
What do you want me to say?
Just don't lie to me.
Same here.
The pleasure is mine.
I want to apologize about my brother and the MauMau's. I should not have imposed them on you.
C'mon. You were only doing what family is supposed to be doing for family. You gave your brother a shot. That's all anybody can ask for, an opportunity, a chance, a shot. He got his.
Who's side are you on?
I'm sorry, I can't help it. It's too funny.
What would their reaction be? I hadn't the foggiest.
Everybody shut up.
So you have your small victory, now what?
A small victory isn't that small when you've been use to losing.
What is this?
A gift.
For what?
No matter what you think, you did come up with something unique. Open it.
The Jolly Nigger Bank.
This is authentic, not a repro, circa turn of the century.
Thanks.
I thought it was appropiate.
Is that good or bad?
It's all good. You got a hit show, you're gonna need a bank. Plus, I love these old black collectibles.
How so?
To me, it shows part of our history in this country, a time when we were considered inferior, subhuman.
Why'd you do that?
I don't want to hear it.
How long have you and Hambone been hangin' out?
You're the one that put us together. We're friends.
That crazy brother of yours doesn't think so.
He's just playing big brother.
Oh, is he? You getting jiggy with Mantan?
Please don't go there.
Dunwitty and I feel you've been getting too close to him, getting his mind all messed up.
I can't lie to him. If he asks me something, I tell him what I think.
Do you have to be so damn forthright?
DeLa, you should try it sometime. Come into the light.
Light?
That which has been hidden in darkness is now in the light. This bucket of blood.
You can talk all that mumbo jumbo if you want to but your hands are much bloody. I know where I made my big mistake. I have a general rule, never get involved romantically with somebody crazier than you.
This is crazy.
That's why it will be so much fun.
That was a mistake, but I don't regret it.
The first and only time. A big mistake. I'm gonna have to ask you not to see Mantan anymore.
Work related or otherwise?
Otherwise. I trust you know the difference. You're an intelligent woman, finished at NYU.
DeLa, kiss my big black ass.
And that's how you got me in the first place.
Don't make me have to use this.
I didn't think this was in your studies at NYU.
I told you but you wouldn't listen. You never listened to me.
Give me the gun.
Glad to meet you, too. You are all your father talks about.
Is that so?
How long has my father been like this?
Not that often. He was excited to see you.
So he drank himself into a stuper?
The drinking is for the pain. It doesn't kill it, just dulls it.
So what's up with you?
I was a hostess at this club, your Daddy was performing and I had never laughed so hard in my life. He asked me to come with him. I quit my job and we've been together ever since.
Don't tell him it's from me or he won't take it.
Your father is proud of you.
He never showed it.
He did the best way he knew how, Junebug is stubborn just like you.
What do you want?
I want to speak with you.
Go away, unless you got my money.
It's me, Peerless.
Son. Good to seeya. Good to seeya.
It's been a long time.
Pull up a chair. Oh, excuse me, this is my lady DOT.
Pleased to meet you.
Good woman. I trained her right.
Daddy, she's younger than me.
My game is still strong. No Viagra for me, don't need no chemicals. Just my tonic.
Purely for medicinal purposes.
I thought you had promised Mommy you stopped.
I did. I'm not an alcoholic. I just like to drink.
How did you end up here?
How did I end up at the third rate chittlin' circuit greasy hole in the wall in West Hell, Virginny? Is that what you're asking ya Daddy?
That's what I'm askin'.
Because I had too much pride. Too much integrity. I wouldn't lick nobody's butt. Some material I refused to do.
Daddy, it can't be just because of that. There had to be other factors.
That's the only reason, period. They only want one certain kind of black comic.
Another one of your conspiracies to hold ya career back?
All I know is what happened to me. All that other mess I just file into the "life's too short" category.
Enough about me, what's happening with you?
The same old, same old. Trying to get my stuff through.
Dem white boys giving you a hard time?
Nuthin' I can't handle.
The truth is never let them seeya sweat. You do that, that's half the battle.
Where do you go from here?
Three nights Charleston, South Carolina.
I didn't mean that, in life.
In life? I'ma keep on living, having a good drink, got me a good young woman, make a couple of dollars and make people laugh. Haven't I always tol' you all nigga's are entertainers? The question is what are you gonna do, Peerless?
Let's get him over to the bed.
Baby, you treat me so good. Peerless, you're a good son, I love you. You never gave me no trouble.
I love you too, Daddy.
Always keep 'em laughing.
...exactly thirtytwo minutes ago.
I'm sorry I'm late.
Do you know how much information can be dispensed in one minute alone?
I didn't find out about this very important staff meeting until...
Four minutes ago.
So are you telling me everyone knew about this gettogether except you?
I wasn't told about this until Marie informed me as soon as I got off the elevator.
Do you know what C.P. Time is?
C.P. Time is Colored People's Time. The stereotypical belief that Negroes are always late. That Negroes have no sense of time  time except when it comes to music or dance.
I'm sorry about my blowup but I have to have a whipping boy every meeting.
I understand. But again, in all honesty I was not informed.
Forget it. I believe you're my most creative person I've got on staff. You're hip. You know what's happening. I got some corny white boys and girls writing for me.
I understand Black culture. I grew up around black people all my life. If the truth be told I probably know "niggers" better than you, Monsieur Delacroix. Please don't get offended by my use of the quoteunquote N word. I got a black wife and three biracial children, so I feel I have a right to use that word. I don't give a damn what Spike says, Tarantino is right. Nigger is just a word. If Dirty Ole Bastard can use it every other word so can I.
I would prefer you not use that word in my presence.
NIGGER. NIGGER. NIGGER. NIGGER.
The material you've been creating is too white bread. White people with black faces. The Huxtable's, Cosby, revolutionary. But that's dead. We can't go down that road again.
I don't agree. The Negro middle class does exist, and it's rich material for a dramatic series or sitcom.
I'm telling you it's not.
The middle class black family moves into a white suburban enclave. The middle class black family moves into a small Southern town that is run by the KKK. The middle class single black father raises his teenage daughter. The middle class single black father raises his teenage daughter. The middle class single black mother raises her teenage son. And so on and so forth. It's too clean, too antiseptic...
...to white? I still feel all of my scripts would make good shows.
Delacroix, wake up, brother man. The reason why they didn't get picked up was because nobody  and I mean NOBODY  niggers and crackers alike wants to see that junk.
I've never been given a fair shot.
You got your head stuck up your ass with your Harvard education and your pretentious ways. Brother man, I'm blacker than you. I'm keepin' it real and you're frontin', trying to be white.
I'm an oreo, a sell out? Because I don't aspire to do HOMEBOYS FROM OUT OF SPACE, SECRET DIARY OF DESMOND PFEIFFER, A PJ's or some as you might put it, some "nigger" show? I'm a Tom? I'm whiter than white and you're blacker than black? Is that what you think?
That's exactly what I think. I want you to create something that people want to see. Let's be honest, the majority of the people in the country are deaf, dumb and blind and I'm including 35 million AfricanAmericans. You know and I know "niggers" set the trend, set the styles. This is a golden opportunity now. These idiots have to be led to the water.
I'm not sure if I can deliver what you want.
You will or you'll be back at BET so quick you'll never know what hit you. I need a midseason replacement and pronto. It will be on the fast track.
What is it you want from me? Some plantation follies? Some sitcom that takes place on a watermelon patch? Some show that follows four nigger generations of junkies and crackheads? You want me to go back to the ante bellum days?
Yes! Yes! Yes! I want a show that will make headlines, that will have millions and millions of households tuned in, glued to their televisions every week. I want advertisers dying to buy on this show. I'm gonna squeeze this show out of you if it kills you.
Delacroix, I'm glad you got your mind right.
It's right and tight. Good morning, let me introduce you to everybody. You know my assistant, Sloan.
We're all happy to be here and I'm going to paint a picture for you.
I'm wid it.
I've done a lot of soul searching and once again you are right. In my previous work it's been all surface, superficial. I have never really dug deep. Not anymore. As Mark Twain fully understood satire is the way. Race has always been a hot button in this country's history and it needs to be pushed harder. If we are ever to live side by side in peace and harmony. It's about promoting racial healing.
Go on. Good so far.
I know you're familiar with minstrel shows. They came about at the turn of the 19th century. It was a variety show in which the talent was in blackface  singing, dancing, telling jokes, doing skits. Dunwitty, I ask you when was the last time there was a good variety show on the air. Carol Burnett? HeeHaw?
Word!!!
So let's take this great form, this very American tradition of entertainment into the 21st century, into the new millennium.
The name of the show?
It is called: MANTAN  THE NEW MILLENNIUM MINSTREL SHOW.
I'm lovin' it. You know how I know? Because I'm getting a boner, my Johnson is hard, no disrespect my sister.
I'm feelin' dis'!
It will take a lot of courage and backbone on the part of the CNS to get this on the air. In fact, I would understand fully if the subject matter is deemed too risque, too controversial.
Don't worry about that, that's my department. Now who do we cast? We need a star. Can Whoopi sing or dance?
I don't know if Whoopi is the way to go.
Are these our two stars, sitting here in front of my nose? Which one is Mantan again?
That's a great handle.
Mantan and Sleep 'n Eat. Two real coons. I know we're way out there but it's satire.
I want you take it there. All the way to the edge and back.
Every week we follow the trials and tribulations of two real coons  Mantan and Sleep 'n Eat. The Dusky Duo.
What are there character traits?
Ignorant, dullwitted, lazy, and unlucky.
Exactly!
Mantan is an uneducated Negro who always by some stroke of unbelievable stupidity makes his best laid plans go haywire.
And Sleep 'n Eat is his comical sidekick?
Yep, you guessed it.
This could be bigger than "Amos and Andy."
Protest finally forced "Amos and Andy" off the air. Could stop us from ever getting on.
Let'em try. I will kill to make this happen.
Negroes would be in an uproar.
So what. We would just give the NAACP a donation that would be the end of that. No such thing as bad publicity. So what. Earlier you said singing and dancing.
Mantan right here is a gifted hoofer. He has educated feet.
Who are the other characters?
Do we have characters? How about Honeycutt, Snowflake, Rastus, Nigger, Jim, Sambo, Jungle Bunny, and how could we forget Aunt Jemima.
We gonna hit 'em wid da BOMB DICKEY on dis' one. What's the setting?
In the projects. Like Eddie Murphy's "The PJ's."
Ya first bad move. Projects been done. That's one of the problems now, everything, movies, TV, are set in the urban jungle, da hood. That's so tired. Mantan's Millennium Minstrel Show should be set on a plantation. In Alabama.
And every week these Alabama porch monkeys will make us cry, make us laugh, make us look at our own humanity. Make us feel good to be alive.
I don't know about that plantation angle.
What are you talkin' 'bout? It's the move. Stay wid me now. We're movin' fast. What does everybody else think about this?
That'swhatI'mtalkin''bout. That'swhatI'mtalkin''bout! He's off the hizhook!
We think so.
Sleep 'n Eat, what do you do?
I strongly feel that a Negro should direct this. This kind of satire is a high wire act in a gale storm. One misstep and we're doing "Amos and Andy." Only a Negro will have the sensitivity and cultural awareness to navigate this dangerous terrain.
To hire someone solely on their ethnicity, gender or religion is not right. It's unAmerican. I will hire someone who is most qualified for this particular job.
I was hoping to perhaps direct some episodes myself, if not the pilot soon after.
I want a hot, young white director. Maybe the kid, that pheenom who just did that hot new sexy Madonna video.
You're telling me some white boy is gonna direct this pilot?
I just want you to meet him. Keep an open mind.
Besides, what does he know about Negroes?
Probably nuthin', but that's why it's such a sexy way to go. Sometimes an outsider has a fresh new outlook, a different unique perspective. A black director, y'know what he's gonna do given the subject matter? With this kid, the possibilities are endless.
What are his qualifications besides being a white male and directing a hot new sexy freaky Madonna video?
If Spielburg can direct "The Color Purple" and "Amistad", our whiz kid can direct the Mantan pilot.
That's exactly my point. Has he even directed actors before in anything?
No!!! Just meet the guy. That's all I'm asking. Look, I'll even let you choose your own musical director. You can have that.
In the immortal words of Derrick Coleman, WHOOOPDEEDAMNDOO!!!
Derrick Coleman, he possessed all the talent in the world, coulda, shoulda, been a great ballplayer but alas D.C. didn't want it bad enough. Delacroix, do you want it? Bad enough to kill for it? Do you want it that much.
I'm gonna leave you two creative geniuses alone.
Dunwitty, don't leave.
I will not be held responsible for these revisions. These changes are not the way I want to go. This is an outrage. This is a sham. A violation!
Calm down, please.
I don't give a good goddamn about Finland, Norway, Sweden or wherever ya blond ass came from.
We just punched it up a bit. Made it funnier.
Funnier to who and at who's expense? Dunwitty, when Negroes start to run amok, the boycotts, when the demostrations commence, I'm giving them your home address. Let's see how you like it when they picket your lawn in Greenwich, Connecticut.
I seriously doubt that will ever happen. Didn't I tell you I know your people better than you do. But if by some miracle you're correct, I'm gonna invite them inside my house and we'll have a sit down, discuss it like civil human beings.
Yo, DeLa, I just got the news from the CNS brass. They saw some clips from the pilot and they're rushing it onto the air. Yo, we're a midseason replacement, ordered 12 shows. We're on in 3 weeks. Didya hear what I just said, Yo?
They didn't even view a rough cut, just some scenes we quickly cut together.
This has to be a big mistake.
The big mistake was my not believing in your genius earlier. From the gitgo, from jump street.
Hold on a sec, I got a call.
Hello, Mommy, let me get rid of this other call.
I gots to go, it's my Moms.
I want to meet her one day, please tell her the great news. I'm OUT like Vanilla Ice.
Our guest today is Pierre Delacroix. He is the creator of the highly controversial TV show MANTAN. Let's get right into it. You have been called by some in the community a traitor, a sellout, an Uncle Tom. Why does your show generate such feelings?
Because race has always been a sensitive issue in this country. Gary, I have no problem with people disagreeing with the show, it's when folks start trying to mess with my inherent right as an artist, that's when I get mad. No one, in any way, shape or form should be censored.
No matter how sexist or racist the material may be?
Yes. And I say yes because who is to judge? Who is to stand before us and say this is righteous and this is not? Who? Who can play God?
But the line has to be drawn.
Don't you people get it? We're in the 21st Century. Slavery was over four hundred years ago. All that stuff people talked in the old days, it's over. Folks always crying, white man this, white man that. Let's all grow up.
Are you trying to excuse our Holocaust?
Can I finish? Thank you. I had a great Aunt, we called her Sister. She went to her grave not believing man had walked on the Moon.
Manray, Sloan says you're too talented to be dancing on the street.
Well do something about it.
My tap shoes.
EUREKA!!
What do I have to do?
Some tap dancing, some singing.
Where do I sign?
How different?
Trust me. Of course I still have to pitch it to my boss, but we'll have an answer one way or the other.
DeLa, I'm aboard. As long as I get to hoof and get paid too!!!
That's right. Money turns the wheel.
I would like to change your name.
To what?
You're now Mantan.
Mantan? I don't even care as long as I'm dancing. Which reminds me, I need some new kicks.
I want you to start using the name Mantan and not Manray if you don't mind.
Why?
You have to start getting into your character.
Mantan?
Mantan!!
I'm not playin' myself no mo'.
How you sound?
I won't do it anymore.
Manray, I'm very sorry about ya boy Cheeba and Sloan. Believe me, it gave me no joy pulling ya coattail about her, just lookin' out for a brother. I feel you, all this stuff happenin' at once but you can't let if affect your work. You gotta be professional.
I'm always gonna be that. But I ain't doing no more buck dancing.
No costume. No blackface.
I'm starvin' like Marvin.
My world famous, famous world Arroz con pollo will be ready very soon.
Hurry up, I wanna watch HBO.
Did we get our bill yet?
Ahh, the luxuries of life.
Yo, check it. This is good and all that but one day soon I want to have much Benjamins so I can have a nice crib and pay all my bills. You hear me.
Chill, I'm the brains behind this outfit.
And I'm the feet.
Yo, you gotta show some patience. You want me to snap my fingers and presto chango  you're an overnight sensation. Son, there is no such thing.
I'm tired of waiting.
We ran out without my shoes and the floor. I gotta get my stuff. What about our savings?
Are you crazy? The joint is crawling with cops now. You wanna go to Rikers? Go to the hoosegow?
We got evicted from our home. We've both been on the streets for the last week.
We was coming to see you.
If it's not too much trouble could you order us some food?
We're starving.
That ain't funny.
DeLa, I don't know 'bout this.
Good morning, Cheeba.
Good morning to you, Mr. Delapot.
Delacroix.
Y'know what I mean. Got a gig yet for Manray and I yet?
Sloan and I have been looking all over for you.
You'd take no offense if we called you DeLa for short?
No offense.
Manray needs a job.
I have this concept for a TV pilot. There's no guarantee it will get made but regardless, you'll still make some money.
How much?
First things first. I have to know if Manray is up for this.
What kind of show is this gonna be?
Different.
What about in the mean time? Not the in between time?
You'll both get an advance and you can stay with me.
Nice to meet you.
And this is Manray.
Gentlemen, the show, our show will be satirical. You know what that is, don't you? Trust me on this one.
We might need some mo' money behind this.
That can be done.
Life is beginning to look up. It's all good in da neighborhood.
You might be right.
Why are you smiling so?
I'm not smiling.
Naw, not you. It can't be. That hottie Sloan Hopkins.
It's that bad, huh? It's all over my face.
No shame in ya game. She got ya nostrils, ya chnoz is wide open. Sloan's what we certified ladies' men call low hanging fruit.
Certified ladies' man, huh?
She's also moorish.
What's that?
Moorish. Ya get a little taste of dat booty, ya wanna get some MORE.
Seconds and thirds, too.
Sloan is all 'dat. I try her. I'm a trisexual.
You'd try anything. I got first dibs. You get ya own stuff.
Naw, just jokin'. That's you. That's you.
DeLa  what's the matter with you.
You ain't happy about the green light?
What's wrong with him?
Must be the pressure.
Please, have a seat.
Sloan never told us she had friends like you.
In fact, we never knew she had any friends period.
Why they gotta make my nose so big?
Look at my lips.
I'm not drinking the KoolAid.
What are you talkin' about?
Jim Jones, y'know. I'm not drinking the KoolAid.
Meaning?
I'm out.
Good. I've got a broken back from carrying you all these years anyway.
So that's what you been doing?
Damn skippy.
You're in this up till ya neck.
Don't shoot me, I'm just the piano players.
You can walk away. We both can.
Yeah, that's easy for you to do. You never had any talent.
I'm so tired of you running that. I always worked hard for you. You think I'm a leech, a klingon, I quit.
Our first caller is Big Black from Brooklyn. Go 'head.
Microphone check, one, two. One, two. Yo Tavis, I be lovin' yo show but Mantan you is foul. Why you perpetrating? You a sellout.
And Big Black from Brooklyn, what do you do?
What do I do?
What do you do?
I'm a revolutionary.
And another thing, you better stay away from my sister or you better...
Ladies and gentlemen, there is no need to go there. We can all agree to disagree without making threats.
The MauMau's are up in dis place. That's right, the MauMau's.
What's your name?
My righteous name is BIG BLACK.
And what are the MauMau's going to do for us today?
We gonna drop some knowledge, wisdom and understanding. The Mau Mau's, we be scientists. We drop science.
We're ready when you are.
Microphone check. One. Two. One. Two. One. Two. Hold up. I gots to give my peeps some props. Brothers introduce yourself.
You idiot. You almost gave me a massive coronary.
I didn't mean to scare you like that.
Well you did.
Give me some?
I'm not huggin' you in the middle of the street. You must be crazy, Julius.
Whoa, hold up li'l sis'. I done told you 'bout that. Julius ain't my name, you better recognize Hopkins was our slave name. My true name is...
I'm not callin you Big Black Africa. Mommy and Daddy named you Julius.
BIG BLACK is the first name and AFRICA is the last.
Damn, Sis, you don't keep no food up in here in dis' piece.
I order out mostly. So what do I owe this visit to?
My group we need some exposure. Was wondering if you could hook a brother up?
Hook you up? The MauMau's? You must be smoking. Why in the world would I want to hook up a bunch of red, black and green flagwaving pseudo revolutionairies?
So now I see where you're coming from. Just because we ain't rapping about Gucci, Timberland, Rolex, Benz, Cristal, ho's and bitches, we're pseudo.
Who are you revolting against?
We're revolting against the powers that be, that been enslaving the minds and hearts of all people of color. And we won't stop rapping till we bring about the overthrow of the government of the U.S. of A.
Please.
If you were really down you would get us together with that boss of yours. What's his name again?
Delacroix.
Yeah, him.
What makes you think he would write a show about the MauMau's.
C'mon, why not? The Monkees had a show. Look at all that other junk that's on TV. We got underground cult following.
You don't have the demographics.
So are you telling me that you wouldn't even introduce me to Delacroix or set up a meeting? I'm talking 'bout me, your only brother, ya own flesh and blood, hook a brother up, youknowwhatI'msayin'.
That'swhatI'msayin'. I'm not blowin' my young career, brother or no brother, for you or anybody else.
There is a name, a term for your kind, the likes of you. Back in slavery days, you would be classified as a house nigga.
If you think I'm a house nigga then that's your prerogative. You got your ways to affect change, I have mine. And I would appreciate it very much if you took ya field nigga ass out of my house.
My own sister throwin' me out. I hope to seeya later when you get ya mind right. Don't bother letting me out.
That's mighty black of you.
Everybody say Ho!
Ho!
That'swhatI'mtalkin'bout! That'swhatI'mtalkin'bout! I want to be the first to welcome you to the second taping of Mantan  The New Millennium Minstrel Show.
My name is Honeycutt and I want to try something different. Can you do this for me?
Yeah!
I'm gonna start a chant and I want y'all to follow me. Let's make our own 2 real coons know you're ready to start the show.
C'mon. It's easy. It's the same thing y'all do out at the Yankee game, no different 'cept we changing one word. Everybody go it?
YEAH!
Alright. Here we go. Let's go NIGGERS! LET'S GO NIGGERS!
Let's go NIGGERS.
Let's go niggers!
Louder. They can't hear you.
Yo, Big Black, we needs a name for this joint.
How 'bout...
BLAK OUT. BLAK LISTED. BLAK BALL. Need I say more.
BLAK it is.
Keep trying.
I'm on it.
...Benedict Arnold...
...that simpleton is holding back the race. They got rid of us and keep those two buffoons, Mantan and Sleep 'N Eat, y'knowwhatI'msayin'?
Same thing, y'knowwhatI'msayin', y'knowwhatI'msayin'!
We know. We know. Yo, check it, my black brothers, we can't let this slide. Not this injustice. Nah, no way. Dem' two real coons iz ill.
1/16, tru' 'dat. True 'dat.
He gots to be did.
Did he gots to be.
You truly are a dancing fool.
Yo Black, you looking for trouble.
Forgive me Father, for I have sinned. It has been two days since my last confession. Father, my sin is a terrible sin. A sin of omission. There was another sin that happened at the same time, and in the same place, but my sin I think was graver stil.
Sister, we all know what happened to you yesterday morning. I expected that you would want to speak to me about it. But you could have come to my office. Your being here, in the confessional, implies that you, Sister, have done something wrong. You haven't. I assure you. I feared you might have misplaced feelings of guilt. If you condemn yourself because you experienced feelings of... curiosity or even... pleasure, you mustn't 
Father, if it was so trivial, so natural, so  No. I have sinned. And you must listen if you are to prescribe an appropriate act of contrition, and to absolve me. Father, what would you do if you had but one day in which to use your arms to serve God?
It's funny, you knew. But the first thing I think of is kneading the bread that I help bake for the soup kitchen. Maybe that's because my the muscles in my arms still hurt.
I also thought of that bread, Father. And of that night six days ago when the Mother Superior died, and I kept the cool, damp cloth on her forehead freshly moist. Father, what would you do if you had but one day in which to use your legs to serve God?
I think of running for help, and falling to my knees in prayer.
As I have prayed day and night since the desecration of this church yesterday morning  and my sin. You see, Father 
Yes, Sister?
Yesterday morning, God gave me but one chance to use something else to serve Him. Not my arms or my legs, but something I used for the first time, for the last time, and will never use again. My vagina.
Those boys, those sad, raging boys... They came to me as the needy do. And like many of the needy, they were rude. Like all the needy, they took. And like all the needy, they needed. Father. I knew them; They learn in our school. And play in our schoolyard. And they are good boys.
You knew them? Who were they, Sister? Who are these boys? What are the names of these  good boys you knew?
I got them all going for Oakland. With bullshit money. We'll cover the $800.
All right. What are you gonna do?
I want 15 on the Mets.
How about 7 1/2?
Hey, man. Don't give me that bullshit. Don't pussyout on me. The Mets are a fucking lock. I wanna make some money.
Are you sure?
Yeah. I'm sure.
OK asshole. You owe thirty grand. Now what are you gonna do?
I wanna go double or nothing on the next game.
Double or nothing? Are you fucking out of your mind?
I'm not gonna let that bastard take my money
Take your money? This guy will blow up your house and everyone in it!
There's just no way the Mets will lose this game. Gooden is pitching and Strawberry is ready to break out.
Fuck Strawberry. You're gonna end up owing 60 G to a homicidal maniac!
That's my problem. Just put in my bet.
Do you have the money?
What money?
Don't bullshit me.
I don't got it. Not tonight. You can't get blood from a stone.
This psycho can.
Oooo... Big fucking scary guy. Just put $120,000 on tomorrow's game.
You're a fucking joke, you know that? He's been waiting for the money since the fucking game ended. And I've been waiting here since  forget it. Listen up. You're gonna get us both fucking killed. You know that!
Uhuh. I'm gonna win. Just make sure the bet gets in.
You do know that he's gonna blow up your house, kill your wife and kids 
Good. I'll give him an extra 10 grand for his trouble. I hate that motherfucking house and 
He's gonna kill you, man. Do you hear me, motherfucker? You. Dead. Get it?
I've been dodging bullets since I was fourteen. No one can kill me. I'm fucking blessed. I'm fucking Catholic.
How's the case going?
What case?
The fucking rapists, man. The punks who raped that nun. The $50,000 reward from the Church! Remember?
Yeah. Sure. Yeah. We're on it bigtime. Lots of leads. You bet.
That 50 G could help you 
Get this, man. I was at the game today. Face to fucking face with Strawberry! Jesus! I saw him strikeout. And you know what? He looked at me, and I looked at him, and he laughed and I laughed and it was like we were all alone in that whole stadium and only we understood that it was all a racket, that he struck out on purpose, and that he's saving it up for the Big One. Tomorrow. Today I understood for the very first time that 
You've really got a problem.
 that there was never any other way it could have gone. Never any other way. So you had better just put in my fucking bet. $120,000 on the last game. The Big One. Come on! Are you a bookmaker, or fucking what?
Here. Look I'll give you the psyho's number You call him yourself and tell him wnat you want.
Large?
All right, cop. I want my money.
It's still my money. If you want to have a chance at any part of it, shithead, you will take my $120,000 and bet on tomorrow's game.
What about the money you owe me on yesterday's game?
Fuck yesterday's game. The World Series is seven games not six. Put in my bet.
Let me think about it.
There's nothing to think about. Either you put in my bet or you ain't getting nothing.
Oh, really?
Yeah, really. I'm no fucking asshole, man. I'm a fucking cop!
OK, cop. I want you to give yourself and your friends on the force a message. Tell them I've got my own reasons to be very interested in whomever did the job on the nuns. I'll double the Church reward if you bring those punks direct to me. 100 G cash. Get it?
Here's the deal: You meet me tonight across from the Garden. 33rd & 8th. At the beginning of the Ninth Inning. We'll listen to the end of the game together. You bring your cash, I'll bring mine.
Yeah, sucker. You better be there!
I forgive you.
Me?
I forgive you.
You can't forgive me. After what I've done. I've fucked up bigtime. I've been bad. Real bad.
I forgive you.
Please. Please don't forgive me. I've always hated you for that.
I forgive you.
Why? Why can't you hate me? Hate me! Please! Help me! Hate me! Help me! Hate me!
I forgive you.
Why? Jesus! Why me? Why can't I wash the ashes from my forehead, year after year after year? And why am I still drunk on your blood, the taste of your flesh on my tongue? Worst of all, why can't I feel the nails in my palms, the spear in my side, the crown of thorns round my head? Why do I have to know, over and over, that it was you. You who died; died for my sins! And that I will die for nothing. Why?
I forgive you.
Why do I dream every night of the whore who brought you water on your road to death? And why have I never forgotten that if she, then I 
Oh God, my God. it's goddamn good to be good. Forgive me. Father, for I have sinned. It's still goddamn good to be good.
I forgive you.
That stuff'll kill you quick, man.
What the fuck are you? A drug counselor or a drug dealer? And you don't even do your own product! What kind of businessman are you?
The rich kind. Jeez, man. The way you smoke that shit is suicide.
Fuck you. Just give me back a little something for the road.
How are you doing, man?
Very good. Very good. The Mets are gonna win tomorrow.
There. Now you've got your profit and more. You'll have more product day after tomorrow, right?
Uh  right. Sure. The Mets are gonna win tomorrow.
I know. Take care of yourself, man, OK? Be cool.
You took the chalice.
Yes.
You brought it back to the Church. And then it made it's way back to me, again.
Yes.
Are you all right, honey?
I was gonna bring it back myself.
So what are you doing here?
He wants to know who brought in the chalice.
That's no mystery. Julio and Paolo brought it in, You don't want to hurt those boys, do you? I mean, they sure as Hell have got something coming, but it ain't what the Law wants to give them. You understand? No. How could you understand.
I'm gonna need some bread, man. This ain't fair. I'm always here for you, and you can't even take decent care of me. My landlord is bitching like a motherfucker! You're two months behind on the rent, Lieutenant!
Didya ever think of moving to a cheaper apartment? $3,500 a month is crazy, man!
It's nothing. This is New York, man... Oh  I forgot. Bowtay needs some cash to buy her new acting headshots out of the developers. It's a good investment, man. She could make serious money!
Brown Downtown... There hasn't been any smoking brown on the street in 
Who said anything about the fucking street. I've got more connects than you have, Lieutenant...
I can't get over what those guys did to her. I just can't.
They're alive, aren't they? Come on, man! Everyone's making such a fucking fuss, just because she's a nun. Just because she wears a penguin suit, the church puts up 50 G for the guys who dared to rape her. Do you think they'd put up a dime if you got raped? Of course not. Or even for your little sister? The virgin? Like shit they would.
Susie's not a virgin anymore.
She's fucking nine years old! Jesus Christ.
It's horrible. They burned her breasts with cigarettes. Christ.
Yeah? At least she's alive! I see people get killed every day! Worse yet, tortured first and then killed! The nuns got off easy. Jeez. Cigarette burns. Everyone's all upset about fucking cigarette burns. I'll show you cigarette burns!
The Church is a fucking racket. I know how they operate. I've been part of the racket since the first time some faggot priest spilt water on my head. My Aunt Lu says I was crying all the way through. Yeah, I know their game inside out. Now I'm free of it and I'm gonna stay that way.
I'm not talking about the fucking Church. Fuck the Church. But tell me. Do you believe in God?
What's to believe?
That Jesus Christ was the Son of God and he came to die for your sins.
People.
You believe that man is the beall and endall?
Yeah.
OK. OK. Fine. But  do you believe in God?
It's not the drugs, Ariane, it's  it's someone who wants to kill me. You gotta believe me!
Why?
Christ! Shit! I could kill them all with my bare hands.
Who?
Those fucking Mob assholes.
C'mere. You got some good blow, right?
Yeah.
Then c'mere. I got something for you.
First I'll put your Uptown in the spoon, then, to make it more exciting, I'm gonna add some Downtown. They call this thing a speedball, honey, but then you must know that... First time shooting up?
Nah...
Sure it is. You're a virgin. Just like that nun. And I'm gonna rape you.
Can you believe the nerve of this fucking guy? He kills people for fun, and then, he puts up 100 G to bring in some guys who raped a nun. What a sick fuck. Man...
Who?
A wiseguy. Paying 100 Grand for the rapists if I turn then over direct to him.
But you could do it, baby. We could use the bread...
You mean you could use it.
I got it, man! I will find those kids. And I'll get the 50 G from the Church! Then the kids'll go to jail. I'll be in charge, of course. After a little while, I'll break the fuckers out  and I'll turn them in to shithead I was just talking to. And pick up his 100 G. No. I'll hit him up for 200 G. Or 250 G. l can do it  'cause I've got the kids. Then, of course, there's the 180 G I'm gonna pick up on the Game tonight  when the Strawberries win!
"The Strawberries"?
The Mets. So anyway, chalk up another 180 G for the Game. Jesus Christ! That's almost half a million dollars. Ariane! Wait. That's not good enough, I'll ask the shithead for 280 G for the kids. Then it'll be a perfect 500 thousand. Yeah. Perfect. 280 G for the kids. Yeah, it's good I prepared, or I wouldn't have thought to 
How come all those guys who're looking to get 50 from the Church haven't come up with shit? You got some kinda inside track?
I'm a Catholic.
Alderman Swayzak.
Investigator Rimgale.
I need to get in the trunk.
Inspector.
Alderman.
When are you going to catch the prick that's doing this, Don?
"Don?"
Don't you have any leads at all?
No Marty, I don't.
We still haven't found a connection between the victims.
Jesus, open your eyes! Seagrave, Cosgrove, and now Holcomb  fried in a goddamn highrise!
Holcomb? I didn't know the name of that victim had even been released yet.
Is there a connection between them, Alderman?
Just catch the son of a bitch.
Mr. Swayzak! How ya doin'?
Investigator...
I'm a little busy right now 
This'll only take a minute. There's two cops outside that want to ask you about this 
Got a cause?
Are the glory boys actually showing interest in Investigation's work? I may have a stroke.
The glory boys just want to finish their report so they can go home.
I'm working on it.
I deal with this stuff every day. But a fireman... you never get used to it. What happened up there? He was a candidate. Did he pay attention? Was he listening?
...He wasn't listening to the right thing...
What do you listen to, Stephen?
You don't know... nobody knows...
I might.
It knows us. This one knows us.
I need that report, Lt.
Shadow.
How ya doin', Ronald. Staying comfortable?
Didn't think you'd make it.
Wouldn't miss this for the world, pal.
Who's this?
He works for me.
Is he a fireman? I like firemen.
You like everybody, Ronald.
You don't know him.
I know you.
Knock it off. Now.
Tell him about me, Shadow?
Ronald here likes telephones. Used to tape wooden matches to the bell striker and wrap it in cotton. Came up with a whole little thing there, didn't you Ronald? When you got bored, what did you do? You just started making calls... mostly day care centers and retirement homes, wasn't it?
Did he tell you how we finally met?
Nobody cares, Ronald.
Oh, but it's a good story, Shadow. You're depriving our famous young friend here...
Sure Ronald? You're ready alright.
Absolutely.
 Burn them.
And old ladies?
 Burn them.
And the world  the whole world.
 Burn it all.
They ran the residue you scraped from both crispers' front doors. It's a combination of plumber's putty and rayophene gum. Burns almost completely away when you light it.
Putty? On both doors?
There's something else kinda interesting...
Anyway, down here, take a look...
McCaffrey, hold this for us.
See that patch of shirt? We wondered about the discoloration so he ran a spectro. On a lucky shot we picked up some traces of Trychticholorate. Nobody around here had ever heard of it.
Trychticholorate? Alright, it's an absorption catalyst in toxic waste accidents. It's pretty rare, they stopped making it a couple'a years ago.
Probably got in Cosgrove's clothes in a gas state from the fire.
What the hell was it doing in the fire?
That's your job.
Uh, Helen, I wanted to talk to you a second about Sean...
Stephen, I'm kinda busy here, can we talk about this later?
You can't talk about my brother like that...
Here we go...
Stephen, what are you doing here?
Fixing my roof.
It's not your roof anymore.
Where's Sean?
He's got piano lessons.
Oh yeah? How's he doing?
He's going to be a fireman.
Give up, babe. You can't fight it. Believe me, my mom tried...
Stephen, you gotta stop just showing up on the roof like this.
I just wanted to, I don't know, not exactly apologize for the other night  especially since I don't remember much of it 
 You remember.
Yeah... I just thought I should say, I don't know, something.
The great communicator.
Sorry I hit Jackson.
He deserved it. He was born deserving it.
He treats you okay?
Okay.
I treated you better.
You treated me like shit.
You want some coffee?
Coffee? Nah, I gotta go.
What's wrong, Stephen? C'mon, you only beat up the roof when something's on your mind. How's Brian doing?
He's out.
I know he's out, but how's he doing?
Y'know, I treated him better than any other probie I ever had. He probably hates my guts, but I did the best thing for him. I made him finally look in the mirror.
Ah Stephen, that's what this is really about, isn't it? You always have to be right.
Hey, I'm the first one to admit when I'm wrong.
Yeah? When was the last time?
In a fire? Never. Look, I'm his brother. I care about him, y'know? He was going to get himself killed. Maybe not today, maybe not in a year, but it would've happened. And I couldn't  I just couldn't...
You can't keep being his father...
I'm sorry... I... couldn't sleep...
What's wrong?
I... It used to be, when I was a kid, what meant most to me about this job was there were no ifs. Life and death, right and wrong. When someone called the fire department, we came... Those guys don't know how much I love them... You don't leave people hanging... cause that's what it's all about. It's loyalty. It's 'till death do us part. Isn't that what you heard?... It's you go, we go... Cause without that, it's the end of families, it's the end of the fire department... and when the fire department stops coming... that's the end of the fucking world... I'm sorry I came, Helen, it's just... it's just there's nobody I can talk to... I miss you.
Cook and I are almost finished here. Have a seat.
Stephen... I... can I talk to you a second...
Look, I'm sorry I 
 No, that's okay. It's just Sean...
 He's gettin' good on those eggs. And y'know, he told me he actually likes the piano.
I don't want to confuse him, Stephen.
I hate it when we gotta fucking go look for it.
Call in another alarm. We're gonna need some backup.
Stevie? Rimgale's here to see you.
I'm busy.
He just wants to 
 I'm busy goddamn it, okay?
We gotta roll, Stevie...
I'll be there.
They're waitin' man.
I'll be there, goddamn it!
Who's going to die?
Brian. He's not doing it right, dad. He never does it right.
Well, let's have a look.
Your brother's right. If you don't fasten these correctly they could open and you'd get burned.
And DIE!
Fireman shit?
Hey, what's with the mouth? Where'd you grow up, a barn?
Firehouse.
Cute.
Dad!
You've come along a dozen times, Stephen, give your brother a chance. We'll be back in a few minutes. How 'bout it, sport?
Well, if it isn't the littlest McCaffrey. Hey! You break anything with that you buy it! Sorry, there must be something wrong with my eyes. I keep thinking that's a fire department uniform.
It's in my blood, Willy.
Really. Well, let's have a look at what else was "in your blood". I always look forward to getting these, they make such a nice collage for the bar... "Assistant Director, Sales, Aspen Snowmobile Tours..."
Didn't offer the kinda growth and challenge I need.
Uh huh. And "Pioneer's Pride, Mobile Log Cabins". That was in your blood about six months wasn't it?
Management were pin heads.
"Laguna Jamming, Custom Surfboards"?
Coffee sucked.
And just this year, "Brian's Sound Spectrum". Your own company even. Big step.
I was ahead of my time.
You know, I've got a perfect little spot here for "Brian McCaffrey, Fireman"...
Completely out of control.
What the hell are we waiting for?
Aren't you even curious?
Engine 115, right?
How'd you know? These are supposed to be sealed.
Lucky guess. And a case of scotch to a captain in station assignments.
You crooked son of a bitch. Why 115?
Lots of fires. They promote faster there. Take a look at the last Lt.'s list, half the guys on it came from that battalion. Gotta think about your future, Timmy. 115's the station.
Ah man, if you're gonna bribe your way into a station, why not 17 with me and your brother?
Man. Something sure put a crimp in his evening.
Backdraft.
Do you have to do that?
Could you believe that fire? Man! First day! There I was, Adcox and me, pullin' that lady right out of the fire's fuckin' throat! I love it here  No surround and drown for this company. Fighting 17th! Goddamn Stephen's amazing. You see how he took that fire by the balls? I'm gonna be that good some day, you watch.
Y'know what Stephen said to me, right when all the shit was coming hard? "You never know till the moment the fire stares you down if you're just gonna do this job or be great at it".
Ah man, is he usin' that line now on you? What, you think he made that little gem up? Jesus Christ, I used to have to listen to my old man use that every morning.
What?
"Probationary Fireman Brian McCaffrey, on his very first fire, showed the kind of bravery and courage of a veteran firefighter when he risked life and limb to doublecheck a burning floor alone, emerging victoriously with Anna Rodriguez, a seamstress for the North Shore Clothing Company... McCaffrey first gained prominence as the subject of a 1972 Pulitzer Prize winning photograph taken at the scene of his father's death..."
So, you surviving without me?
There's no replacement 'cause of your boss' cuts, if that's what you mean. If someone else goes out on an injury we're really screwed.
Swayzak's not my boss.
Yeah. Big fan.
And I'm a huge fan of what you did to save that woman, Brian.
Uh, I think there's been a mistake. I didn't save that woman.
No need to be modest, Brian.
No, you don't understand, I saved a mannequin.
 That really was incredibly work you did. You and your brother, fighting fires together, helluva image, isn't it? You must feel lucky to be assigned under his command.
Every little boy's fantasy.
Brian, let me come to the point. I'd like to offer you a job.
I have a job.
This one's still with the fire department. One of our best investigators, Don Rimgale, is working on a very difficult, visible case right now. We think he could use another pair of hands and you're exactly the kind of guy I want representing us: An authentic hero from a traditional firefighting clan.
Yeah, we got all kinds of traditions  like dying young.
Not every job in the fire department comes with a tombstone, Brian. This could be a great opportunity to move... beyond a fire engine.
Mr. McCaffrey...
Nice boat.
It isn't mine. Let's get a picture.
Mr. McCaffrey... Keeping busy?
Yeah. In fact, I just dropped off a letter to the Times explaining how yesterday's arson announcement was a fabrication by your office. They loved it. And you know what? You were right, my family background in firefighting gave it weight.
Brian?
Hi, Helen. Man, you look great.
You look like... Brian.
'Bout written you off. How long have you been in town?
Four months.
Four months?
I know, I know, Should'a called. I've been really busy. I joined the fire department.
That's Sean? Jeez, he's a giant.
Yeah, you'd be surprised what three years can do to a kid.
Sean, come on out, man. What, you forget your favorite uncle?
Stephen told him you were killed in a hot tub accident.
Well that's two things to strangle Stephen for. Where is he, anyway?
Stephen's not staying here now, Brian. He moved out last April.
Oh, man, I'm sorry.
You guys ought to try picking up a phone once in awhile.
Uh, I'm Brian McCaffrey. Your new assistant.
Your Dennis' kid. I work alone.
Are you still here?
Get used to me, Inspector. I'm not going anywhere.
Then go find a corner. I don't want you in my way.
I think we should get something straight here. I was assigned to this office by the city.
Look, I knew your father, he had a helluva reputation on this job. But that don't mean you get any slack. Swayzak sends you down here, okay, I gotta eat you, that's the rules and I got nothing to say about that. But Swayzak or no, you live with me. Step out of line, and I don't care who knows you, I'll swing the hammer. You think you're the first?
Where are you going?
Pest control.
 Shhh.
What are you listening to?
So you were happy here. Warm and cozy and in no hurry... Soot high, clean unburned wall low, indicates slow burn in thermal balance. Find me some glass.
Glass?
Do we have a language barrier here? Glass.
Glass found in ignition room is in small, thin pieces, indicating explosion. Lack of discoloration indicates a long, slow burn. Explosion must of come after a slow burn. You little tease... What were you up to you little bastard, huh? What made you that mad? Or scared. It started in this room. Took its time, hung out... but the air ran out. It couldn't breathe. So it was snuffed. But it wasn't dead... still all that trapped heat, lying low, waiting for some sucker to open the door and give it that one gulp of air...
 Another backdraft.
Temperature in this room was about 2000 degrees, but copper wire in outlet is melted, which requires 5000 degrees. An accidental short in the plug could of created a spark of 7000 degrees, hot enough to melt the wire and start a fire.
No it couldn't.
Uh, I don't think that's in my contract...
I just rewrote your contract. C'mere...
Read.
"Trychtichlorate is a binary structured "
 Go to the bottom. Under heat properties.
"During heat episodes of 2000 Kelvin or higher, Trych breaks down and dissipates. Will consume magnesium".
Ever burned magnesium? It's so hot it takes water molecules and BAMM!
Son of a bitch tears 'em apart just to eat the oxygen. Wouldn't take much at all to melt ten gauge wire. Problem's burnt magnesium leaves a powder trace  unless you could find something that would eat its residue.
Trychticholorate. Then Swayzak can announce Seagrave was a murder.
Look, it isn't proof, okay? Someone may have put the chemical in the outlet, but we found it as a vapor in Cosgrove's clothes.
And the putty around the door?
Even if it was used to seal the air off, that doesn't explain why someone would go to the trouble of a backdraft. A gun's a helluva lot easier
But the right guess on this is arson.
I don't guess.
Some people say you don't do much of anything when it comes to this case.
I don't work for them, either.
That's it! Oh, that son of a bitch, he's different, goddamn it! You see what this tells us, huh? Our killer doesn't love fire!
What?
I got it after we talked to Ronald. Torches. Want to fry the whole goddamn world. But the fires that killed those guys never really burned up much.  The burns were all lit in outlets surrounded by double firebreaks in the walls. And he made his burns backdrafts.
But he killed these guys.
But he could have killed everybody there. The firebreaks kept it from spreading in the wall. The backdraft blew out the flame. That's it. That's the reason.
What reason?
Why backdrafts. Whoever fried Seagrave and Cosgrove went to a helluva lot of trouble to make sure they died by fire, but also made sure the fire blew itself out.
That's why the sealant on the doors... So what have we got, a torch with a conscience?
No, we have a stone killer trying to make a point.
Are you going public with this?
No. Do that and I guarantee you'll scare him off. I don't want him running away.
What the hell are you doing here?
I'm finished with Swayzak. I'll do whatever you want me to do. I just want to help catch the guy that burned Tim. You gotta give me another shot.
In a word, Brian, what is this job all about?
Fire.
Hey boss, Dekom Trust is owned by Pan Illinois... which is majority controlled by Lakeside Dynamics... which is a division of Windy City Ventures... who's partners are... Alan Seagrave, Donald Cosgrove, and Jeffrey Holcomb.
Son of a bitch. They knew each other.
So Seagrave and Holcomb were accountants...
And Cosgrove. Coppers figured he laundered money for the mob before getting into real estate. They weren't very high on Seagrave, either.
Nice bunch of guys.
Who all ended up wearing candles for faces... Swayzak's up to his ass in this somehow. Guy can barely hold a drink in his hand, he's so scared.
This is the copy of Swayzak's manning report that was released. Everybody on this job knows it's bullshit but we could never argue with the numbers. They're all airtight.
Yeah? Airtight?
I've got three different drafts of the same report  with different numbers that're all over the place. Looks like they were just making it up as they went along.
Did a little check on the consulting firm that wrote the report. They did exactly one job  Swayzak's manpower study. It's not even really a company. No employees, no directors, just a PO Box.
Then who wrote the report?
It had to be someone who knows numbers. Some kind of fancy accountant. But what's the connection?
Well Brian, I guess you can say it's arson now...
How ya feeling?
Did you pull me out?
Yeah.
Did I say thanks?
No.
Just wondering.
I hate hospitals. You're so... so goddamn useless...
So what do you want me to do?
I've been lying here hours... just thinking... We're close... We're not looking in the right place, Brian. This one knows us and we're not looking in the right place...
Your brother was a good man.
Yeah.
Another couple of good men get burned up for their city? Is that how it's going to read? You're the only one that knows.
Like it never happened...
If it was a joke, sir, you'd be laughing.
You walked out on this academy six years ago. One week to graduation. You think we forgot that? You think I did?
I want another shot, Sir.
Look, everybody remembers your old man. Being his son, all you had to do was breathe to graduate here. Dead Hero Father Rule. But you blew us off. Why should I take you back?
If you remember, sir, my test scores were in the top 
 I don't give a damn what your test scores were, maybe you could have been a good firemen, but you had your shot.
I need another one, sir.
Sorry, but it's out of my hands. Try again next year.
No, it isn't out of your hands or you wouldn't even have met me. If I push you have to let me back in. Dead Hero Father Rule. Sir.
Even if you graduate this academy, you've still got nine months of probation. That's hard duty, son. If you don't really love this job, it'll kill you.
See you Monday. Sir.
Brian McCaffrey... Oh this is really a treat. Brian McCaffrey. Lost a dad to the animal, huh?
Hey, do I know you?
I'm close... but I can't get who it is...
So you came to me... Well, this is going to be an interesting afternoon after all...
Okay, here's the deal. I'll tell you a story, you tell me one. Fair?
Who's doing this?
Your first question should be who isn't. It isn't a spark, Brian. Not enough damage. And an insurance pro? Where's the profit margin?
Then who 
 No no, your turn. Tell me a story.
I don't have a story.
Sure you do.
Famous story even. Straight burn. Just an engine and truck first on scene. What did you feel, Brian, when you first got there?
What?
You gotta tell a story too, Brian. It's fair. C'mon, don't think too hard 
I... I thought it was great. I loved it. It was nothing to these guys... medium deal.
Right. Light smoke, low roll. Couple'a civilians hollering  medium deal. So young fireman Adcox and Captain McCaffrey, they head up stairs, get out on the fire escape  McCaffrey does the ballsy jump across... what were you feeling, Brian? C'mon, you promised. Be honest. Okay... Guard!
 I wanted to be him. Right then I wanted to be him more than anything...
Very good, Brian.  About your report here. The way to a torch's heart is through his tools. That's how you know him. It's the way he talks to the fire. And to you if you listen.
The outlets.
That's a probie answer. You're smarter than that, Brian.
Trychticholorate.
Good.  So our two heroes, Adcox and McCaffrey, they go back inside. Only there's another fire in there nobody sees. And it took your dad, didn't it Brian? Did you see him burn?
Who the fuck is doing this?
After it took your dad... the fire... did it look at you Brian? Did it talk to you?...
Oh Jesus Christ...
Not such a far walk after all, is it, Brian?
Brian.
Jennifer.
You're back.
You look great.
Thanks for calling.
Uh... I've been sorta keeping a low profile... the academy... I graduated today.
Huh.
So... I see you're still in the neighborhood.
Not quite. Just visiting. I live in Lincoln Park now.
Yeah? What have you been up to?
I work for city hall.
Really? No kidding.
What, you think I just dried up and blew away when you left? The world does turn once in awhile Brian, even without your permission.
Well, if nothing else, it's nice to know we can still be friends.
I don't want to be your friend, Brian.
With grenadine, right?
When I was twenty.
Oooh, very sophisticated. Having fun?
Look, I'm not the same girl who had nothing better to do than wrap her legs around you on a Saturday night. This isn't about fun. I'm working here.
Carrying Swayzak's notebook?
Let me tell you something. Martin Swayzak is going to be this town's next mayor.
Yeah. Swayzak. Humanity's last hope. How can you work for that guy?
Why do you think Marty came here tonight? Because he cares about your department. You don't know how hard he works. You don't know about his programs helping West Side 
 All I know is that his programs are getting firemen hurt.
Bullshit. Marty's plan is only about efficiency. I've got two cousins on the job, you think I'd work for him if I didn't believe in it?
What was that? Oh man, you have picked up a few moves since John Paul II Boulevard.
Yeah, well I like to think I'm just a little past hanging out on JP II watching the Irish pick fights and Litwalks barf in the planters.
I seem to remember some pretty good nights on JP II.
Boy, took you all of thirty seconds to blow that.
C'mon Jennifer, he's just another NorthSide jagoff with a mouth.
Brian, do you always have to be so stupid? Think about your future for once.
So now you suddenly care about my future?
Look, I didn't mean to take a piece out of you back there, I just thought you'd call when you came back. You didn't and... Don't blow it just because of this garbage between us.
Hey, sorry if I made you look bad in front of your boss. But I'm not gonna be a poster boy for him, I'm trying to do something here. There's five hundred smoke eaters in this room that do that stuff for real every day. Tell Swayzak to talk to one of them.
I've been thinking about what you said the other night... If the offer's still on the table, I'd like to talk about it.
...Okay. I'll arrange things with your assignment captain. Marty's a good man, Brian.
Yeah...
Arson.
Straightest answer your department's given me all week.
Hey.
How's it going?
Boss and I are up to about three words an hour.
Green committed to a thousand. There's another fundraising party tonight. Marty'd really like you to come.
I don't know, I'm kinda swamped here.
I could use a date.
Yeah? Well, maybe I can fit it in...
Hi.
Hey... So are you dating your boss or what?
If you weren't at least the 300th person to ask me that, I'd probably be pissed. Boy, you sure know it's a man's world sometimes...
Sorry. Are you dating anyone?
You think that's really any of your business?
Well, you did invite me here.
Marty did. But I wanted you to come to.
Okay.
Boy, Rimgale's as slow as a snail, isn't he?
No, he's more of a dinosaur. Guy's not a dummy, though. He's juggling alot of balls on this one.
Yeah, but it doesn't take Albert Einstein just to figure out if these guys were killed by accidents or not.
Jesus, give him a break. There isn't enough proof yet to go public. Sure, we found some chemical shit we think somebody dumped in the plugs to torch 'em, and we've maybe figured out why backdrafts, but you can't rush this stuff. Not 'till it's locked.
But Rimgale's probably going to come around to arson.
In a dinosaur kinda way, yeah.
Thanks for the invite.
Got anything to drink in there?
Oh, there might be something stashed away for emergencies.
This is one of the oldest fire stations in the city. Lotta tradition locked up in here. What do you think?
Homey.
See that trap door up there? That used to lead to the hay loft when they had horsedrawn engines. It was pretty different then... but kinda the same, y'know?
Do you miss it? You seem like you do.
When I came back, I knew more than anything else that I wanted to be a fireman.
Then why did you quit?
I wanted to be a good one.
Well, our specimen here is your basic standard issue piece of primary suppression equipment. This area is the pumping panel, which controls the rate of liquid insertion into the hose.
Uh huh.
Brian. What's wrong?
You told Swayzak about our arson lead. It's all over the fucking news.
I didn't know it was a secret. There aren't supposed to be secrets between the city and its investigators 
 Bullshit! You knew what I told you wasn't ready for the papers 
Will you please keep your voice down, there's people 
 You could have scared the son of a bitch off. We may never bust him now. All for a couple's political points.
I was doing my job.
Yeah? And just how much of all this has been "doing your job"?
Let me ask you something, do you really think Marty had you assigned to arson because of your firefighting skills? Who the hell are you kidding? I was there, remember? I saw you and your brother 
Leave Stephen out of this 
Oh yeah, he's the real fireman. Who are you? Just another probie working for Swayzak 
 I work for the city.
You knew what we were asking you to do. Don't suddenly pull out a conscience now. The fit isn't right.
Hi.
Hi.
We still talking? Look, I'm sorry about the other day 
Swayzak knows something about the guys that were murdered. I want to know why he keeps that hidden.
I don't know anything about it.
You could check. It'd be in his files.
Do you know what you're asking me to do?
Yes.
Y'know, four years ago I was working in a bakery. Two years ago I was bringing Marty coffee and he didn't even know my name. I run that office now. Marty believed in me and I believe in him. You want me to just throw that away?
Your boss is lying, Jennifer.
What is 
Just take it.
I'm sorry.
That's a dumb thing to say.
You're right.
I think your boss is going to need some spin control.
I quit two days ago, Brian.
What'll you do?
I don't have the slightest idea...
I'll see ya around, huh?
It's a small town.
It doesn't go like that.
Who asked you?
If you do it like that it'll open in the fire. Then you'll get burned and DIE.
Well, look what we have here. Nice costume. Rent it?
I want to thank you for coming to my graduation, Stephen. It was a great inspiration to me.
So you're going to fight fires now, huh?
Doesn't work on you. See ya around, little brother.
Not likely.
Well, see you're wrong already. Had a talk with Chief Fitzgerald, and we decided in the interest of brotherly love, that maybe you shouldn't be way over on the other side of town. So starting tomorrow, your assigned to company 17. My company. One case of scotch, you're getting cheap in your old age, Brian...
I like what you've done with the place.
It's comin' along... want a beer?
Been ripping off fire stations?
It's old stuff Adcox gave me that the department was going to throw out anyway. Still good enough though for this tub.
My God, an actual operating 8track.
What, you've never seen one before?
In the Field Museum once.
It works.
It worked when you were in sixth grade.
People actually used to pay you for this?
Millions, Stephen  And sexual favors.
Sheep don't count.
Yeah? What about Laura 
That was never proved.
Why'd you come here, Brian?
I wanted to know why you messed with my station assignment. I mean, is this really gonna have to one of those big brother  little brother "you broke my GI Joe and I'm still pissed" games?
What is it with you, man, huh? How do you manage to keep coming up with new and amazing ways to screw up? That scotch bullshit? Am I really supposed to believe you came crawling back home because you suddenly felt heart strings moan for the family biz? You were bankrupt, man.
Hey! You don't know me 
I know you cold, Brian. The scary thing is, you probably could have faked it for awhile. But you see, in this job there's no place to hide. Isn't like selling log cabins. You have a bad day here  someone dies. And that's not fucking good enough. Want another beer?
So that's it? Big bad brother's gonna ride my ass till I cough blood?
Big bad brother is going to treat you like any other probie  that I don't think is going to make it.
There's only so much technology can do. Thanks for the beer.
Thanks for the speakers.
Y'know, I told myself a million times I didn't want to be a fireman. I said bullshit to that line about tradition and family legacy. I know I split, and I know how you felt...
Yeah, you know. You know what it felt like.
I gotta do this, Stephen. I gotta know.
I think you're gonna find out, Brian. Don't be late tomorrow.
Ya love it, probie?
I'm in heaven, Lt.
Hook us up to a standpipe.
Y'know, you got an awful short memory for direct orders. I told you to stay beside me.
 C'mon, Stephen.
 You split the team, man. And what was that crap with the standpipe? You'd think you and a hose were never introduced before.
Goddamn it Stephen!
 I told you to stay next to me!
 I was doin' it! I was up there fucking doin' it. You don't know, man, you don't know what I did!
What you did was drop the ball, Probie. Get that right.
C'mon ladies, let's roll some hose...
 Never mind.
Thanks.
Brian   See ya tonight.
Hey.
Hey.
So you got a 'roid going with Jackson or what?
Nah, he's nothin'. It's just sometimes... sometimes you just gotta punch somebody out, y'know?
Look, Brian, a photographer. Maybe I can get on the cover of LIFE magazine, too.
C'mon, let's crawl home.
Jesus, it's too damn bright in here... Like a goddamn spotlight... I'm goin' blind...
This?
Yeah... too bright...
Roll the hose.
What, are you kidding? By myself?
What, is it the stairs? Christ, I'll let you win next time.
You got a problem with drilling, probie?
No, Lt., I don't have a problem with drilling. But let's just have one drill. Not one for the company and one for me.
Roll the hose.
Ready?
Christ, Stephen, let's wait for the hose team...
Listen to it, Brian... Jump when I say... It won't get us.
You okay?
I waited... I would have fucking waited...
That's not what it's about, Brian. The point is there was a kid in there. And what if there'd been two? I went in because that's what I do. It's my way. It's dad's way. It isn't everybody's way.
Dad's way? Where did he tell you that? In a fucking seance?
You said you wanted to know something, Brian. What did you learn today? What do you say, Brian, huh? Time to move on?
Look, you are sorta making yourself fair game.
Thanks for the insight.
Brian, look 
Just leave me alone, okay?
...Not now, Brian.
Had to take on another fire bare handed, huh? Had to be fucking myth man in there instead of looking out for your probie. Is that what happened? Is it, Stephen?
I had that fire. He didn't listen!
He didn't listen? He was a fucking candidate! He was your responsibility. He shouldn't have been there in the first place, Stephen. You burned him.
Fuck you.
Hey, what are you doing here?
Just... Just wanted to say hello...
So hello.
Well, long as you're here you can help clean up a little. I've got a guy coming to look at this in a few minutes.
You're selling dad's boat?
Yeah, it's just another memory in my life right now. And I got way too many of them...
I really should get back. There's... there's something I'm supposed to do.
Yeah? What have you got to do? Look at you. Look at your face. All the things you must be thinking. Man, you must really hate my guts. Well, you know what? It's okay.
Look, Stephen, maybe we can talk about this some other 
 Okay, so you don't like me. You don't like everything I've done. What, because I wasn't such a genius the way I raised you? Jesus Christ, dad was gone, what was I supposed to do? You tell me, what the fuck was I supposed to do?!
It's okay, Stephen, I 
 I tried, y'know? Helen's right. I don't have all the answers, but goddamn it, I've got some. Look, you're gonna do what you have to, and maybe I shouldn't have gotten in the way. I'm your brother, not your father. Go on. You gotta go somewhere? Go...
I saw it.
Saw what?
When dad died, I saw another fire...
Everybody did.
I saw it before it got them. I tried to yell, but... He asked me to look out for him. And I didn't do it. I let him die.
...Jesus, you been carrying that around for twenty years? For christ's sake, you were seven years old! You think he could have heard you in there?
I hate him so much sometimes, Stephen. You don't know how hard it was for me to put that uniform on...
Maybe I do. ...What a fuckin' mess, huh? People can change Brian.
Sometimes right when you're looking at them.
Oh God, Stephen, what's going on with you?
I don't know, Brian... I don't know...
 Stephen, wait a minute. I gotta talk to you. It's Adcox, he's 
 What are you doing here?
I saw Adcox's back! I saw the burn! I put it there! Jesus Christ, Stephen, he's been killing people!
I know.
How do you know?
I knew when you came looking for the chemicals. Looking for me.
 What were they doing there?
They were for the fucking boat, Brian.
Anything else?
What are we going to do about this?
I'll handle it.
We gotta go to Rimgale, Stephen.
I'm his Lt. He's my responsibility. I'll handle it. Me.
You're his Lt., Stephen... Are you gonna handle it? Are you Stephen?
Shut up!
You crazy son of a bitch, why couldn't you stay behind a desk where you belong?
"You never know till the fire stares you down if you're gonna be "
Oh shut up, huh? I think I broke my goddamn arm...
Don't tell them about Adcox... Don't let 'em...
I'm sorry... I'm sorry I thought... I won't.
Hey, baby McCaffrey. First one's the clincher. You did okay.
My Lt. might have something to say about that.
Ah, everybody screws up some, Brian. You're working for the toughest Lt. on the job. Saw him once pick up a probie he thought was moving too slow and throw him into a burning building. It's just bad luck you're family.
John, when you're in there... in the fire... do you ever see...
Is he...
He's alive.
Did you do it for Tim?
That was an accident! Jesus Christ, why did you have to go in there so fucking early? Why didn't you listen to me!
You gotta let me finish 
Just come down, John. Just 
 Shut up! Your dad would fucking puke if he saw how you've shit on his department!
 He killed people 
 You know what Swayzak would do to the department if this got out? 
 Stephen, this is bullshit 
 What he would do to your dad's department? You gotta let me finish it 
Oh these moments do try me...
Be gentle.
Wash it to the windows?
No, we'll hit the son of a bitch head on.
It's gonna flash, Stevie. We gotta get behind it.
Nah, listen to it. It's a pussy. It'll just steam on us. It won't flash. Go high in the ceiling.
That's Franny. She likes firemen.
Tim, fill out the alarm card. Clean the pipe poles, wipe down the ladders and hang some hose.
Goddamn it, Stephen, lay off! You stupid dumbshit, you never know when to fucking quit, do you? You ever wonder why your career's in the fucking toilet? Why you're gonna be stuck a Lt. for life?
No. I need a drink.
You know Knowlton pretty well?
Yeah...
Kind of an asshole, wasn't he?
Biggest in two battalions.
We're gonna be okay, man...
Adcox, go with Pengelly and check the other side.
It isn't safe, man. Don't go splittin' us up. Not with this one.
 What the hell's the matter with you? You always check the other side. I haven't got time for bullshit right now, okay? We got a job here.
Let me take the lead, Stephen...
Goddamn it Adcox! Just do your fucking job!
Aw man, Stephen, listen to me...
 What the fuck were you thinking, huh? Burning people? You're a fireman.
They were killing firemen, man. When Sally showed me what was in Swayzak's files... They were my friends, I had to do it. I had to do it for the department.
 Knock it off!
 You can't let him turn you against your friends, man 
...What do you want me to do, Stephen? Talk to me. What am I supposed to do?
There's a fire. We've got a job here. Let's get on with it.
You stupid son of a bitch! What the fuck are you doing!
Stevie... I...
How the hell are we supposed to get this donkey inside?
I don't know.
What? I thought you told me you had it all figured out.
Maybe I did... I don't remember.
I'd love to get you in an operating room. Just once.
Can you believe how perfect it fits?
Yeah. Who'd have thought they'd both be a size 138 regular.
You're late again, Rick.
I know, Sister, but I have a very good excuse.
There can be no excuse for tardiness.
You're absolutely right. I should never have stopped to save that drowning infant. I'm just weak, Sister; I'm so weak.
Sister, do you ever get lonely after vespers? If you do, why don't you give me a call. I'm in the book.
Get going, Rick... you're late enough as it is.
Right... Think it over.
You always were sneaky, Stan, very sneaky.
Rick, marriage will be good for you. It's done wonders for me.
True, you're a lot handsomer now. Don't you have enough blood already?
You won't miss a thing about being single... The wild parties, the different girls every night, running around like a maniac... God, I miss that.
Stan, you're depressing me... Hey, I didn't know you were going to fill 'er up. Just take a couple of gallons, okay?
That's an even trade... a cotton ball for all my blood.
Okay, Rick, all finished. I can't wait for that bachelor party... I need the action.
Nah, that's okay. My brother has to look up old people's asses all day long. Let's give him a break.
Right. Give me the will to live. Let me go first.
Thanks a lot, that was the best. You're next.
Nah, not yet. Look, you're my older brother. I need some advice here. What's the deal with marriage? What can I expect?
Well, the first month it's great. The second month things calm down a little. By the third month you're looking through your old girlfriends' phone numbers; by the fourth month you're numb; by the fifth month, hopefully the football season starts.
Thanks, Stan, you've been a lot of help.
Oh... it's... er... the guys from the beer convention. We're bringing them to the party.
Great. I was wondering, how do you guys go to the bathroom in that thing?
Where'd she go?
She probably had sex scheduled for 12:30. O'Neill, let's pick up the guys for a drink... I have major news to announce.
Where the hell is he?
Knowing Larry, he probably missed the flight.
What's the matter?
Nothing... Let's get crazy!
We'll spend an hour with "Nymphos Without Pants"...
Olivier's in that, right?
Then it's on to the real thing.
Excuse me, but this is as arousing as a stroll through the Vatican.
This isn't right.
Don't you love it when old friends stop by?
Hey, I'm starved... Let's go get something to eat. We'll bring back food for everybody.
I'm not really hungry.
C'mon. I insist.
What the hell is that?
My gift to you.
Under the table!
The best table in the house.
I think you'll enjoy this table.
So long, Father.
I don't get it. Why didn't you go for it just now?
I don't know. Maybe it's because I love Debbie or maybe it's hard for me to get off in a place that smells like egg salad. I'm not sure.
Rick, I'm concerned.
About what?
This is your bachelor party. You haven't had sex with anyone yet.
Get a few drinks into me, we'll dance and see what happens.
I got something you can't resist. I have a friend, Tracey. She wants to meet you. She loves to please.
Oooooo.
Right in there, pal.
If I'm not out in a half hour, send for the paramedics.
That's the old Rick!
How'd it go?
Put it to you this way  you're gonna have to pry her out of the bed with a spatula, mister.
I'm proud of you, lad.
Who was that?
I don't know.
What's this?
Got me.
How 'bout this?
Still drawing a blank.
He look familiar?
Very.
C'mon. Get the hookers in a circle. We better put Cochise out of business.
Now, don't get into any trouble.
Take care.
Hey, you guys...
Who's your friend?
How about this, a Trojan donkey.
And here's Mike's partner, in more ways than one. A gal who doesn't think happiness ends with primates. The very lovely, Miss Desiree...
What are you going to do about it?
What can I do? I'm dead. Debbie's going to go crazy and end the whole thing.
I'll stop him... You stall him.
Reach out and snort someone.
I'm saved. Let's party!
Guess who's here? Another surprise guest.
Who?
Debbie.
My Debbie?
What's with her costume?
I don't know... Go up to her, make like you don't know her and send her into the other bedroom.
You got it.
How are we doing? My name is O'Neill. And you are...?
Klupner. Mrs. Klupner.
Mrs.?
I'm separated.
Then there is a God. Why don't we take that baby picture.
I'm getting one heck of a glare off your dress there. Could you undo a few buttons?
Of course.
Er... perhaps we ought to stop now.
No. Let's at least finish the set.
Girls, why don't we go inside for lunch. Boys, would you mind bringing in that lemonade?
In a second... And you're irresponsible. Show some initiative, try to better yourself, stop showing off, actions speak louder than words.
The thought of that person marrying my daughter makes me want to upchuck.
You can tell a man by his friends.
Ed... you're kinky!
The phone made me do it!
You've been having strange sex...!
No, Brett, I...
It's all right... So have I.
Oops!
All right, who serves?
Rick, hit the ball easier, son. You don't have to kill it.
Can't I just maim it a little?
Well, I have to admit my game's a little rusty, but I love polo. It's unrelenting, a constant challenge to the senses. Really a beautiful experience.
Rick, I want to cut through the b.s.
I'd love that.
Good. I think you're an asshole. No, let me correct that, an immature asshole. Which is fine, except you're marrying my daughter and I'm afraid my grandchildren are going to be little assholes.
Mr. Thomerson, I...
Let me finish. Debbie's an adult. She can do what she wants. But if you want your marriage to last, you're going to have to change some things about yourself. If I may make some suggestions...
Feel free.
First, you're a slob. You have to dress for success. Second, your outlook on life...
Welcome, welcome, one and all.
Rick!
Oh, no!
The end.
No sob story is going to change my mind.
Ebbie. Ger... umph... lable...
Of course, sir. That explains it. Leather is a very good source of vitamin E.
Are any of those right?
This is the Park View Hotel. I'm the Hotel Manager. Are you looking for someone?
Yes, you. We're looking for our room... 1002.
It's on the tenth floor.
What do you know, they moved it. Catch you later.
Keep your voices down. This is a respectable establishment. We don't go for any funny business here. Just then a GUY with a Moosehead Beer hat and TWO GUYS in a moose costume pass him and enter the elevator with the boys.
I see what you mean... You're a beautiful guy. And you're doing a damn good job.
You're all under arrest. Open up!
Your attention, please. May I be the first to say, It's a raid!
You want to share it?
Naw, two on a Quaalude... bad luck.
Right.
My marriage is the worst. All crap. A big pile of shit.
Maybe your marriage should lay off grains for a while.
She hates me. It's over. You'll see, as soon as you get married, everything changes. You sure you want to go through with it, man?
What do you mean, it changes?
Guys, I think I'd rather stay here.
C'mon, Larry. Be good for you.
I just want to be alone.
All right. Now, there's milk and cookies in the refrigerator. Go to bed right after "Falcon Crest."
Lar... sometimes when people are mad they say things they don't mean.
No, she hates me... I want to end everything here... now.
You okay?
Yeah, I guess so.
Really?
Yeah. I see you're right. C'mon, let's party.
What the hell are you doing?
I'm trying to slash my wrists.
You're trying to kill yourself with an electric razor?
I couldn't find any razor blades.
Well, this is terrific. Now you're gonna have wrists that are smooth and kissable. Just go out there. Forget about everything and laugh it up.
Ha, ha, ha.
No, have fun first. Then laugh. Now, forget about marriage for a while. Go party.
Hi, guys. We brought back a friend.
It's Bullwinkle.
It's my fault. He's dead because... I left those drugs...
It's really not all your fault. I was talking to Mike earlier and he had a lot of problems. Personal things, you know. Made some bad investments. At least now he's peaceful...
So, Larry, how have you been?
Just in love with everybody. It's really a beautiful planet. I love you, Rick. I love you guys. I love everybody.
I hate her. I hate her guts, the bitch.
Larry, you and your wife got problems?
I don't want to talk about it. I love you guys. I love my friends.
Is that all the coke in the place?
That's it.
Good.
What can I be doing for you?
You're a pimp?
I'm telling you I am, Joe.
I want women.
That I got. Very good women. They sit on your face, anything you want.
I'll take some.
Big problem now. Soon they go to customers.
I need them for a bachelor party at the Park View Hotel.
You are being in luck. Customers in same hotel. I let you have them at cutrate price for 45 minutes.
Sold. 45 minutes. No problem.
Not one minute longer or Milt will come for you.
Milt?
Screw you... Screw that... Don't jerk me around. You promised me 1500 seats for the Police Concert... 1500, not fifteen!... Screw that... Screw you  Screw Sting. Hi, guys.
Gary, you're quite an animal.
Screw you...
Let's go.
Isn't he incredible, gets along with everybody.
Okay... We're all here. Rick, what's the big announcement?
All right, gentlemen, I'm not gonna sugarcoat this thing. I've known you guys since grade school, so I'm gonna give it to you straight from the hip... right from the shoulder... without beating around the bush... Nothing fancy, just the plain, hard facts... tell it like it is.
Wait a minute. You been living with Debbie! Why do you want to get married?
Because I love her. What can I tell you?
Sounds swell... I'm really touched. And my getting married's not gonna change a thing between me and my pals. We're still gonna go bowling on Tuesdays, play cards on Fridays and wear women's clothes on Sunday night. I love you guys... I always will.
Let's have a toast.
Give the guy air. Everyone to a neutral corner.
What's going on?
It's true.
This place should have been wall to wall tits by now.
Guy paints a beautiful picture.
I'm going to see what the hell happened.
Looks like the only one who got screwed here was you.
Screw that.
Hookers beat you up?
Yes.
I didn't know you were into that.
Gary, how we doing, big stallion?
Rick, I really think I'm in love.
This is cause for celebration. She'll probably charge half price for sex from now on.
So we want your best girls, the cream of your crop.
Let's see your bread.
Park View Hotel, Room 1002.
They'll be up there in a half hour.
Okay. Nice to meet you both.
Jumbo, where the hell are the women?
What are you talking about, asshole?
Your whores never showed up.
They left an hour ago, pink nuts.
Screw you!
That's it, prick lips.
What are you...
I've had it, numb nuts... How much money you got?
Why?
Because I'm pissed off. Now give me your cash.
This is bad public relations. I was planning to do a lot of business with you. But now I'm going to have to go elsewhere.
Hey. I'm sorry. You want girls. I'll give you girls.
Give him the works.
That's more like it.
Ed, we're so glad you could come over at the last minute and judge our little beauty pageant.
My pleasure, Al... Always happy to help out in a pinch... Excuse me. I better call my service... tell them where I am.
Congratulations on your daughter's wedding. Who's she marrying?
A real turd.
Well... hope she'll be very happy.
Great bathing suit.
I think I screwed that one once.
Thanks for helping us out, Ed. We appreciate it.
Any time, Al.
I'm using the same caterer for the shower I had for our Christmas party last year.
Great, Mom.
Why is Cole here?
You know your father enjoys his company.
A strange wang right in my palm.
Ilene, we don't really know that.
What kind of job? I'm a housewife.
Quiet, Mother.
I hope Ilene's all right.
I hope those guys are all right.
If I were you, I'd worry less about the shower and more about Rick's bachelor party.
Ilene, why would I want to do that? I trust Rick.
Of course you do. I trusted my ex, Mel, too. Cousin, I can only talk from experience. What do you think they do at these parties, have tea and play scrabble?
Ilene, Rick promised...
Debbie, don't be naive. Men are pigs.
Are you sure this is a good idea?
Look, you heard what those hookers said. They were supposed to go to a bachelor party.
That doesn't mean it was Rick's party.
Debbie, men are pigs  if they can have women, we can have men.
Let's go.
Look, girls  I'll stay behind and hold them off. The rest of you break for it!
Ilene, are you crazy?
I know what I'm doing... Go!
God, you're a slob.
But a fabulous cook.
What are we having?
It's either meatloaf, Swiss steak or charred flesh. I won't know till it's finished.
I think your dinner's burning.
Don't worry... it's supposed to do this.
Want to hear something great? Bobbie and Phoebe are throwing me a shower. It's really gonna be fun.
Not as much fun as the bachelor party the guys are throwing for me.
You're going to have a bachelor party?
Of course. I'm a traditional guy... It's a traditional event. Well, what do you think?
It looks awful.
Yes, but looks are deceiving... Not in this case, however.
Are you going to have women at your party?
No, sweetheart, it's a stag party. Does stay home.
I'm not talking about does. I'm talking about hookers.
Oh, those. Why do you ask?
Because from what I've heard, it's a tradition and you're a traditional guy.
Huh? Wha...
I can't sleep.
Oh... I got something for that.
Stop fooling around... I need to talk.
What's the matter?
I don't know... I just feel scared.
About what?
The wedding, my parents, your family, our friends, my job, the future, our relationship, the caterers, my gown, your tuxedo, our honeymoon, the apartment, my shower, your bachelor party...
I think the only think you've left out are our relations with the Soviet Union. Sweetheart, everything's gonna be all right.
Before or After I have my nervous breakfown?
C'mere.
That feels so great.
Good...
Um... that's very relaxing.
Now, I want you to lie down and drift off to slumberland.
Well... twentyfour more hours to go and tonight we'll share with our friends and loved ones the joys of those last moments of singleness.
You better not have too much joy.
Wouldn't think of it. Because tomorrow... We're going to the chapel and we're...
Gonna get married...
This is it, lady. Last stop.
Can't I just go with you guys?
Sorry, we got men's business to do. It's no place for a lady.
Remember, you promised... no screwing around.
Did I promise that? I don't remember that...
You're really pissing me off.
Okay, I promise... I swear on my mother's grave.
Your mother's not dead.
Well, if I go back on my word, I'll kill her.
Have a good time. Don't make it too late.
Anything you say, ma'am. Have a fun shower. Use soap.
I love you.
Don't turn on the lights, sugar. I'll lead you around.
How wonderful. A seeing eye hooker.
Why don't you get undressed.
I can't trust you!
C'mon, I knew it was you.
Rick, you're lying!
Let go of me!
Debbie, I'm telling you, I didn't do anything, hardly.
The marriage is off. Now you can screw around with your friends for the rest of your life.
I don't want that. I want to be with you.
And I want to be with someone who understands the meaning of the word commitment.
I am committed. I love you.
I don't believe you.
You don't believe me? Okay, fine.
See? And these are not just ordinary partygoers  there are professionals in this crowd  I didn't want any of them. You... You're what I want. Understand?
Yes...
Great. Now, what do you want to do about it?
Let's get naked.
You're on.
Are you okay?
Yeah.
This has been quite a night. Here's a thought. Why don't we go home and give our private parts a workout?
You're so romantic...
Cole?
Over here, Deb... in the Smokehouse.
Cole, we've got to talk.
Finally realized Rick's a jerk, huh?
No, Cole, I...
It's all right, I forgive you. I'm not the vengeful type. We'll forget what happened. Why don't we take a trip together? Maybe kill a few lions in Kenya over Christmas.
Cole, listen to me... I've got to tell you...
You know, when you dumped me for that wimp, I thought, Cole, she'll be back. God wants the two of you to be together, and sure enough...
Cole, I'm marrying Rick.
You're marrying him? Then why are you coming back to me?
I'm not. I just thought I should tell you myself before you heard it somewhere else.
You know how that makes me feel, Deb? Wanta know how that makes me feel? Angry, Deb. Yesss, that's the word, angry. But if he makes you happy, you go right ahead. I want you to be happy, Deb. No matter what, no matter how angry it makes me, no matter how much it hurts. Be happy, Deb. Be oh, so very, very happy.
Cole, I'm sorry, I...
That's all right, Deb. Go be happy and smile a lot, Deb. Do it for me.
I'm going now, Cole.
I understand, Deb. 'Bye... be happy.
Hi, everybody. Am I late?
Not at all. We're just finishing lunch.
So, Cole, you been practicing your game?
Sure have...
Nice shot.
Thank you, sir.
I know you're as unhappy as I am about Debbie's marriage to Rick.
Yes, sir, I am.
Cole, I don't want you to give up on her.
I've tried to change her mind.
It's not her mind you need to change. It's Disneyland head in there.
But how can I do that?
If it were me, I'd reason with him first. Then, if that failed... ...I'd take more persuasive action.
Thanks for the advise, sir.
Keep me informed.
So, he's playing hard ball. Well, two can play that game. Go after him. Stop at nothing. You hear me?
What? I'm sorry, sir, I can't hear you.
Some fat slob in the next booth is making a lot of noise.
Well, tell the asshole to shut up.
Right. Hey, shut up. Okay, sir.
Sorry, I can't hear you. Some pin head's yelling... Shut up, I'm talking here. Now look, I want you to go back and I don't care what you do. Stop that marriage.
Cole, my God, boy, what are you doing here? What happened?
The bachelor party's upstairs. They made me get naked. They hung me from the window so high up it was so scary I fell down...
Take hold of yourself. What room are they in?
1002.
All right, I'll go up there and take care of this myself. You look awful, son. Go find yourself some clothes.
Yes, sir.
Hello?
Mr. Thomerson.
Yes, son, did you find out where the bachelor party is?
Yes I did.
Fine. How's everything going?
Not so good. He wouldn't listen to reason. He stole my car... my Porsche... I can't find it anywhere...
And...
Bond... James Bond.
Cole. Don't you know it's bad luck to see the groom before the wedding?
I want Debbie.
Cole...
You dump her and I'll give you cash.
What's Debbie's blue book value right now?
Five thousand dollars.
No.
Seventyfive hundred.
Not interested.
Okay, ten thousand plus a G.E. toaster oven, a Litton microwave, a Cuisinart...
I'm marrying Debbie.
Michelin tires... brand new. A set of Sears Best metric tools...
What is this person's story here?
Thanks, Dad. Cole, go away.
He's gonna hurt you, Debbie. He'll never be true to you the way I would.
Thank you. We'll all keep that in mind. 'Bye now.
Rick, I want to talk to you.
Ah, Cole. I don't remember ordering an asshole from room service.
I don't want any trouble.
Oh, come on, just a little.
I'm ready to make you another deal.
Ooh, be still, my heart.
See that down there? That's my most prized possession. My new Porsche.
Great car.
The best.
I love that car.
I'm very happy for you two.
I'll trade you my Porsche for Debbie. An even swap.
The car for Debbie?
I mean it. The car is yours. Dump Debbie.
Gee, guys, what should I do? The car or Debbie?
Low mileage... Handles like a dream.
So does Debbie.
Shit, shit, shit, shit. My car's gone!
Maybe it had something to do.
Shit!
Rick... Debbie is mine. She'll always be.
Cole, when was the last time you had a lobotomy?
You've had it. I'm gonna get you.
Cole, what the hell are you doing?
She's mine!
He and Debbie stand outside the theater, which is a multiplex cinema. Fourteen movie theaters under one roof. Prominent is a sign which reads: "24 HOUR 3D FESTIVAL!" Cole drags Debbie into one of the theaters. The gang runs up to the theaters.
Fan out and look for them.
You sure Gary's got this whole party deal together?
Yeah, man, he's got us a great room at the hotel and lots of chicks.
I hope so. Hundred bucks apiece is a lot of dinero.
What time are we supposed to get to the hotel?
All right!
When do the girls get to the party?
Denmark makes great Nautilus equipment.
I'd like to jerk and press those babies.
Hey, you guys, what's going on?
We're going for a little liquid refreshment.
Great. I'll go with you. Wait a second. Hey, Raul! Move that car, will you?
I've decided not to run for President.
Too bad, man, that blows my chance to be Ambassador to France.
Man, you're losing your audience.
Okay... This is it... I'm getting married.
Yes, gentlemen. Saturday after next, I lose my amateur standing and turn pro.
Hey, man, congratulations!
I'm glad you guys came by... What's the occasion?
Rick's got an important announcement to make.
Yeah. What is it?
What?
You're kidding.
Yeah, man. Let's throw a bachelor party with drugs, booze and broads.
Yeah. Right. All the things that make life worth living.
Where's the women, man? We gotta have women.
Chulo, one thing at a time.
Sex is my one thing. I'm good at it.
I don't get it, but at least Gary's got the real stuff coming up here in a few minutes.
Women!
Debbie... I don't believe it. I'm so excited.
Bobbie, what are you talking about?
O'Neill just tole me. It's sooo great... I don't believe it.
He still thinks I'm going with him. I'm going to break the news to him tomorrow.
He's not gonna be happy. And your parents can't be too thrilled either.
No. As far as they're concerned the only good Rick is a dead Rick. But I don't care... it's my decision.
What do you think's gonna go on at the guys' party?
They'll probably get drunk, and watch dirty movies. But don't worry about the dirty movies.
What do you mean?
I forgot to tell you. Yesterday I found a bunch of pornos in the back seat of O'Neill's car.
You're kidding.
Nah. Everything's cool... I took care of 'em.
That's what we're going to find out...
I feel like I'm spying on Rick.
Deb, we're pretending to be hookers.
Right in here. The big show starts in one minute.
What's happening?
Debbie's marrying Rick.
...Really?
Does Cole know about this?
Really  you went with him for two years.
I'm totally blown away. You're getting married. It seems like only yesterday I showed you how to have oral sex.
Deb, I want to throw you a shower.
Look at that guy. What a hunk.
Check out the other guy's buns.
John Steed.
Valentine Peel. I see you've gone back to using your original face.
The last one you'll ever see.
Perish the thought.
You're better than I expected.
I was at Harrow ...
But did they teach you this?
Bangbang ... you're dead.
You wish.
One shot  for emergencies.
That's not playing by the rules.
Rules are made to be broken.
If you say so.
I do.
You said ... one shot.
Did I? My mistake.
Aren't you forgetting about something?
You are, and it's behind you.
Come, come. You don't really expect me to fall for 
I think she really likes you ... Where's Mrs. Peel?
Ugh ...
Mrs. Peel  ?
Ask not for whom the telephone rings ...
No, please! I beg you ...
Walk over to the window ...
Let it be rain, please let it be 
Stay by the window. By the window.
Are you alright, young man?
I think so, thank you so much ...
Cocky little bastard. I hope he was a baddy.
I feel sure of it.
I'm Alice. Mother said you'd be on your way. Mrs. Peel with you?
She was ...
You with Mother or Father?
Both, actually.
Good. Glad to see they're together at last. They don't get along. Promotion. Top job. Most unfair. Quite a fuss at the Ministry.
You don't say. Like looking for a needle in a ...
Wonderland Weather Ltd.
This way ...
Mother. I thought you were burglars.
Brenda and I thought we'd drop in.
Weather's turning nasty.
You didn't come to talk about the weather, surely.
Oh yes I did. I want you to meet somebody. I expect you'll like her.
Your research into climate engineering was stateoftheart. Your experiments could have revolutionized our knowledge of global warming  had they succeeded. We need your expertise.
Perhaps I'd better start calling you doctor again, Mrs. Peel 
Think she really killed those agents?
She may not know. Theory goes she may be very ill.
Amnesia?
Possibly. Split personality ...
Insane ... ?
Who knows? If Dr. Darling is right, you should watch out.
Why?
She may try to kill you.
Something went wrong. System malfunction. Explosion. Mrs. Peel had a narrow escape. Suspected sabotage. Nothing proven. File still open.
How come you took so much interest in her, Dr. Darling?
Still doesn't. Better safe than sorry. She was in a dangerous game, Steed. High stakes. She may prove to be a risk. If she is, there's only one solution. Termination.
Anyone particular in mind?
You.
We had a lead to Wonderland Weather but we got there too late. Someone tipped them off ...
Too late anyway. Today's escapade was only for starters. This is no ordinary weather. It's manmade. A kind of weather bomb.
Impossible.
This man  did you see him?
No. Her husband, she says. Alice tried to warn us. A trap. Tell Mother beware. Tell Father That's all.
You're accusing Mrs. Peel of killing her own husband?
Her husband suspected someone very close to the operation. On the day he died, he was setting a test. To prove to himself  to us that his wife was beyond suspicion. He had to be certain. He said he was going to give Mrs. Peel something ...
Pity. I was growing fond of Mrs. Peel. Unfortunately 
Guilty until proven innocent?
Mother and Father know best.
I was hoping you could tell me.
You're getting yourself into terrible trouble, my son. Weather's turning very nasty  and so am I.
I'm going to follow up on a hunch of my own. If I'm right, Mrs. Peel is innocent and you have a mole.
Where?
In your operation.
I'm warning you for the last time, Steed: whoever's behind all this, looks like Mrs. Peel, walks like Mrs. Peel and kills like Mrs. Peel.
A series of bizarre shifts in local weather patterns ...
Global warming?
Jungle plants in the Arctic? A lush English village transformed overnight into African scrubland? Blizzards in summer?
We know one thing. That suspect was not Mrs. Peel.
So you say ...
Oh, hello ...
We want Mrs. Peel.
Dead, I'm afraid.
Steed
How did you guess?
You reek of Mrs. Peel's Black Leather ...
It was you who gave Valentine Peel his security clearance ... you're the mole who betrayed the Ministry.
Mother betrayed me. She was going to replace me with a younger Father. Errand boy that's all I was. 'Find Steed...'
Well, you found me. Have a sniff of this, why don't you? Careful, the scent can be overpowering ...
Talk to the pipe, Mrs. Peel. That usually helps. Don't worry about me being invisible. Other than that I'm perfectly normal.
I see.
Or rather, you don't. Learnt the tricks in camouflage. Till this accident made a prang of things. How can I help you, Mrs. Peel?
Ah, here we are. Steed asked me to play a hunch: Valentine Peel.
Peter's brother? But 
Halfbrother to be precise.
Now let's see ... Eton, Cambridge ... research into robotics and plastics. Overtaken by Peter's work on the physics of climate change ...
I know all this.
Do you also know that during your final experiment, your halfbrother inlaw was under surveillance?
Surveillance? By whom?
Father. She gave him an 'all clear' after a security test by Dr. Darling.
Who's now vanished.
Makes two of us.
Are you suggesting that Dr. Darling and Valentine were somehow in this together? But that's absurd.
I was getting to it.
Getting to what?
The World Council of Ministers meets tomorrow to convene the new global defense initiative 
I fail to see 
Under the circumstances Mother didn't see fit, but I think I can get you in ...
Well, I can't possibly go like this.
'X' marks the spot. The shoes were delivered to ... an island in Hyde Park. Surrounded by the Serpentine. On the site of a former Ministry installation...
... and now?
Privately owned by ...
Let me guess: Wonderland Weather.
Very good, Mrs. Peel ...
I shall need a small plane.
You're not venturing alone, surely.
I'm going to find out who killed my husband. Will you take these documents to Steed?
Your mission is simple. Find out how and why these agents died.
I'm no spy  where do I fit in?
Think of it as special assignment, Mrs. Peel. With a twist. You're our chief suspect.
You're saying I have no choice.
Where's Mother?
Mobile HQ. In a blue funk. Can't take chances. I'm looking after things while he's hiding out ...
You don't believe him?
It's Mother you have to convince. He's very agitated. Wait here.
Emma in Wonderland. Welcome, Mrs. Peel. We've been expecting you. We hope you'll enjoy your stay with us. Decontamination is almost complete.
Decontamination  ?
And you've a new wardrobe. He does want you to look attractive. He tells me you're very beautiful.
Doctor Peel, I presume?
And you must be Steed. Please don't get up.
I was about to throw in the towel.
I had a spot of bother at the door.
I shouldn't wonder. Not a woman inside Boodles since 
1922. Why the kippers?
Red herring would have been too obvious, don't you think?
So what was all this  some sort of test?
Congratulations, you've penetrated a bastion of male privilege. I guessed you weren't a stickler for Tradition, doctor.
Whereas you are.
Dyed in the wool. But I can admire someone who doesn't play by the rules.
Rules are made to be broken.
Not by me. Play by the rules, Doctor, or the game is nothing.
And just what is the game?
I say, this is all terribly formal. Must I go an calling you Dr. Peel?
Under the circumstances, you may call me Mrs. Peel.
Much better.
And now that we've settled the matter of honorifics, will you kindly explain why you wished me to meet you?
I didn't. Mother did.
Mother?
... Showers followed by sunny periods.
We're not here to talk about the weather, surely.
Ah ... From Trubshaw's. My shoemaker.
A kipper. Or a red herring? What were they investigating?
My father always wanted a boy.
Really? I fail to see the connection.
I had a feeling you would. Touche!
Do you?
Yes indeed. I need protection.
I thought we were on our way.
Oh, absolutely, but Trubshaw's a man worth meeting. No point setting out half shod.
Or half cocked.
Steed, we really must be 
Ahh. Perfect fit. The luxury of a handmade shoe. As unique as a face or a fingerprint. Or should I say DNA?
You can but I wish you wouldn't ...
Thank you, Trubshaw ...
That place is so absurd, so out of date ...
Do you really think so?
You know what I mean. This car  and you. Nobody walks around like that. Milk?
Not all Tradition is bad, Mrs. Peel. No thank you.
But why? What's the point?
A Gentleman has to have a code. This is part of mine. A uniform. Think of it as my suit of shining armor.
And I suppose you're the knight.
The most unpredictable piece on the board. And always ready to protect his queen.
That's predictable. When I find a queen in need of protection I'll let you know.
Sir August Merryweather ... why are we seeing him first?
As per mother's instructions.
Do we always follow Mother's instructions?
For a man in my position 
Just what is your position, if you don't mind my asking. How did a stuffed shirt like you get into this line of work?
They call me in when they've reached a dead end. Freelance. Like yourself.
I have no choice. Why should you risk your life?
After our fencing match, I was rather hoping you would do the risking. More tea?
No thanks.
I meant me.
According to Mother, Sir August owns half of the Highlands. A millionaire. Former head of Special Projects at the Ministry. Now ...
An eccentric recluse?
Not so much eccentric. More barking mad. He has a wife called June. And a daughter somewhere  Julie.
June, July ... August?
The family does seem to be somewhat meteorologically inclined.
Any other vices?
All of a piece, really. A fanatical weatherman. Chairman of BROLLY. British Royal Organisation For Lasting Liquid Years. Thinks British weather has been tampered with by ... aliens.
So ... I distract him while you snoop around? How?
Small talk. Try the weather.
Ah, Brenda ... Mrs. Peel?
You should be dead. How do you feel?
Strange.
You were very lucky. Four shots to the heart. I found you after I slipped away from Sir August. Mother brought you here. Not me you should thank.
I wasn't about to.
I mean your man Trubshaw. Your bulletproof waistcoat. I thought you were just overdressed.
I might say the same.
Mother and Dr. Darling have me under observation. They think I tried to kill you.
Why should they think that?
You told them. You said I arrived on a camel, shot you four times. Left you for dead.
Frankly that's how I remember it.
But that's absurd. I may not be overfond of you, Steed, but it's not my style.
Perhaps your memory plays tricks, Mrs. Peel.
That's possible. Sir August was convinced he'd met me before. But I'd never met him. Another odd thing. When it rained, he said it was just as someone had promised.
Did he say who?
No. But he must know. Incidentally, my double left you with this.
An invitation. To a 'formal picnic'...?
Did you say formal? I must dress.
I must say, you look more your old self 
You mean my other self ...
Either way ... may I ask: why you dress in that fashion?
I should have thought that was obvious ... I'm in mourning.
Colonel Crabtree. International Satellite Systems. Formerly of the Ministry.
How on earth can you tell?
Elementary, Mrs. Peel. Trubshaw isn't the only shoemaker still practicing his trade ...
Very good, Steed ...
What on earth?
Any ideas?
Well, he was a fellow of the Royal Zoological Society ...
Is that written in his shoe?
Common knowledge, Mrs. Peel ...
She had this in her mouth. There, there...
For you, Mrs. Peel.
Thanks ... I see what you mean about letting me do the risking ... Hello?
But
Don't bother. Here's a bus ...
Not quite. This is my field.
Is there anything that isn't?
The Prospero Project was started by my husband. It was an early attempt to solve the problems of global warming. In theory, climate engineering is entirely feasible. We thought of injecting a chemical cocktail into the atmosphere by laser and satellite. A 'quick fix'...
Filling in mother nature's blind spots ... ?
Exactly. There'd been earlier attempts to pump carbon dioxide into deep sea. Propane gas mostly. In small quantities it captures chlorine. Protects the ozone layer. But it proved impractical. Too bulky ...
But if someone miniaturized the process...
That's what we were working on.
Sounds as if someone's hijacked your research.
Three agents killed by bad weather...
... And by you, Mrs. Peel ...
Then a mad millionaire. Head of a secret defense establishment. A group of eccentrics obsessed by weather ...
... And by you, Mrs. Peel. Everything points to you. No sisters? No undiscovered twin?
Not that I know of. Explanation?
According to Dr. Darling, you're a psychopathic personality with schizophrenic delusions, suffering from recurring amnesia based on traumatic repression, leading to outbursts of antisocial and violent behavior. Q.E.D.
Is that what you think?
Oh, well ... Just my type, Mrs. Peel.
Do you always drive this fast?
Have I trespassed on a male prerogative? We're being followed. I saw him at Trubshaw's ...
What, Lady Disdain? Are you yet breathing?
Barely.
You will let me know if you find that queen who's in need of protection, won't you?
This must be the last straw.
Here's the one that broke the camel's back.
Someone didn't want us to get to the party.
I expect we'll have to gatecrash.
Steed ... !
Mrs. Peel ... ?
Where am I?
The Winslow Home for Retired Lepidoptorists. I'm so sorry I struck you, Mrs. Peel. Please forgive me. I thought you were someone else ...
Was I?
I expect that's for you to know and me to find out ...
It was Peter  I saw him ...
You followed me.
Orders.
To kill me?
Nothing personal.
I could save you the trouble.
No trouble.
Because you always obey orders ...
Always. Except ...
Yes ... ?
... when I don't. It comes down to one thing, Mrs. Peel. Trust.
And do you trust me?
I could be convinced, if ... I knew who poisoned me in the maze. That kiss ...
It wasn't me; you have my word.
Mmm ... what are you doing?
Keeping a stiff upper lip?
Is that all?
But you did suspect me.
Not for a moment.
You're playing games.
Aren't we all, Mrs. Peel?
I thought you played by the rules.
I thought you didn't.
I'm playing to win.
Winning isn't everything.
Please don't tell me it's how you play the game.
After you  Mrs. Peel ...
No, after you.
You don't trust me?
As far as you trust me.
I told Mother I took care of you.
You lied.
I equivocated. But you're not their big worry at present. It's Dr. Darling: he's disappeared ...
Drat. Someone wants to implicate you in this affair, Mrs. Peel. Any idea who?
No idea who. No idea why ...
Teddy bears, cuckoo clocks, toys All children's things ...
... Or grownups, who still like to be children.
Quite. Any childhood friends? Enemies?
Not to speak of. Peter and I were both loners. There was nobody.
Very well. I have a friend who might be of assistance. He's at the Ministry. We'd better be careful.
I'm a wanted woman, I know ...
His name's Jones. 'Invisible' Jones.
Why's he called 'Invisible'?
You'll find out.
Aren't you coming?
I'll catch you up. Don't worry; he's expecting you.
We must hurry, Mrs. Peel ...
Hurry? What for? I'm just now 
You didn't tell her?
There's a reception this evening. Colonel Jones thinks it advisable we attend.
Have we been invited?
What's that you're wearing?
It's called Black Leather.
Intoxicating. Here, have one of these.
What is it?
Limpet bomb. Small, very compact. From Trubshaw's.
When all this is over, we simply must get you out of that suit.
You first.
Shall we?
Trubshaw again? What now?
Snuff. I must insist you try some.
They're playing your song, Mrs. Peel.
'The Merry Widow?' I might have known. Where's the reception?
Bad news. Father's looking for you. Where are those bloody ministers?
Have a look at this.
I'll be back ...
Where are you going?
Laying in supplies, Mrs. Peel weather may get very nasty and I've no umbrella ...
You needn't bother. I can't drag you further into this. After all, I am still the chief suspect.
No bother. Mother and Father think I've joined you. I might as well.
But 
Oh, and by the way, I think it's about time you got rid of that chip on your shoulder.
If you'd been through what I have, you wouldn't 
Mrs. Peel?
What kept you?
The plot. Hello, we must be going ...
'The owl and the pussycat went to sea '
'... in a beautiful pea green boat...'
A fine night, Mrs. Peel ...
Still a bit chilly ...
English weather. You know, after all we've been through, I should say we deserve a long holiday ...
Have you any place in mind?
As a matter of fact I have ...
I don't recall Siberia being this warm, Steed.
It's the latest thing, Mrs. Peel.
Our little paradise  just made for two?
Not quite.
Our chaperon.
Pity your mother came, too ...
Ah ... sun tan lotion. Any shops nearby?
Must be. Trubshaw's busy. I'll send Mother ...
Good luck ... Peter ... Emma.
Thanks, Valentine ...
You.
Darling Emma  yes, we: the true genius behind the Prospero Project ...
A slight miscalculation  my face was burned beyond recognition. Fortunately my research into plastics came in handy ...
Dr. Darling, Peter ... all you ...
An unholy trinity ...
You killed my husband.
For starters. Of course I had to kill the Teddy Bears, as well ...
Too many cooks 
Spoil the majority shareholders. In Wonderland Weather. I planned everything, even the Ministry recruiting you ...
But I found you. All the clues led me here ...
Of course. I planned that, too.
But  why?
You disappoint me, Emma. Can't you guess? For you. It was all for you ...
'Our revels now are ended.'
Oh, no, Emma. They've only just begun ...
Think of this as your second wedding feast ...
I'm already married ...
Come, come, you're a widow  a most attractive widow. Now I think of it, we'll need a bridesmaid. Here.
You know, I believe she's actually jealous.
Valentine, listen to me ...
Right, bridesmaid. Now what have I left out? Oh, yes, I know: the ring.
Ring?
That's better. I say, isn't this where you came in? It's impenetrable, by the way ...
You're mad.
Entirely. On the other hand Mad people get things done. Let me show you 
Such as?
Destruction of their local weather systems. I can zap a thousand Chernobyls into the air.
The result would be ...
Chaos. Transport paralysis. Crop failure. Economic disaster. Frostbite or sunburn ... on a massive scale. You've seen a few samples...
Then what's stopping you?
One very small thing. A diamond 'cyclone' chip. A thousand times more information on a fraction of the size. If I possess that, my powers would be unlimited. My dear halfbrother was developing it. But he suspected sabotage. He gave the chip to ... you, 'Mrs.' Peel. I want you. But also your ring.
The missing piece of the jigsaw. I tried to get you to give it to me as Peter; I tried to steal it from you as Dr. Darling. As myself I'll be a bit less subtle. With this ring my plan will be complete.
How Wagnerian ... Do you mean to say you've waited all these years because you couldn't create a chip on your own? That would have amused Peter.
Speaking of Peter, there's more good news: You won't even have to change your last name. You'll always be Mrs. Peel.
What are my choices?
Choices?
I'll never marry you.
Close. We're so hushhush, even we know nothing about it. Now let's see, there's coconut cake, date and walnut; I recommend the rum baba ...
Hmmm ...
Looks like rain, Steed...
My number two. Special assignments. She's 
Let me guess  'Father'?
How curious ...
Something strange is happening. And whoever knows about it doesn't want us to find out.
Father will be your controller. Steed here will show you the ropes.
Ropes?
Welcome to mobile H.Q. Weather's turning quite nasty. Sir August was blown to smithereens. Along with half of Banffshire. The Ministry's worried.
He tried to warn us ...
Would it be possible to use it for military purposes?
Directed by laser. Bounced by satellite. Quite possible.
London. The World Council of Ministers meets soon on global defence. If you can control the weather, you control the world.
After the cold war ...
I resign.
You need treatment, Mrs. Peel. You can't resign.
Watch me.
What are you trying to do to me?
We want to help...!
I thought I was a widow. My husband ... the only man I ever loved ... is dead. For the rest of my life I have to live with that.
The death of Peter Peel was a great loss. To us all ...
To you ... ?
Peter Peel was a first class agent. A senior operative. 'X' department Special operations. He was engaged in top secret research. Top priority. Government approved.
The Institute ... the funding ...
A cover ... for us. I'm sorry...
Who?
Quite frankly ... it could have been you.
This is an official matter, Mrs. Peel. No need to take it personally. Where are you going?
To find out who killed my husband.
The doors and walls are monitored, Mrs. Peel. This is a very secure establishment.
So am I.
About your next assignment, Mrs. Peel ...
Next assignment?
Ahem. As I was saying, perhaps another macaroon ...
Thank you, Steed.
Sir August ... ? Sir August ... ?
Eh? In here!
Quite a collection.
If nature gives a man a collector's mind, it doesn't matter what he collects. Butterflies. Old China. Penny farthings. A true collector grows more obsessive as the years pass.
Your voice  it's so familiar ...
We have met ...
Congratulations, Mrs. Peel. You have been a worthy opponent. You have tracked us down. You are within an ace of winning.
This isn't a game.
Quite right, but we still make the rules.
Rules are made to be broken.
People, too.
Then who wins?
You and I. Together. But first you must confront your greatest enemy. Who could that be, Mrs. Peel? The answer is obvious ...
May I help you, madam ...
Mr. John Steed, please.
I'm afraid that's impossible.
Impossible?
You are female?
As you see.
Then you can't come in.
I have an appointment.
No women. Not in Boodles. Not since 1922.
Really  what happened in 1922?
I've come to apply for membership in Brolly 
You don't get rain like you used to in England. A good shower that's the ticket. Stiffens resolve, puckers the spirit, quells the nambypamby in a man.
I so agree. How did you acquire a taste for it?
Out in India. So characterforming for the British. Not the heat. Good Lord, no. The rain, dash it. A good monsoon. Fifteen inches overnight. A whole week of lovely rain. I remember one summer in Jaipur ...
You
Have we met?
You mean you don't recall??
Ah, beautiful. Just as he promised.
Promised? Who promised?
There, look!
Mrs. Peel ... Come quickly. Brolly's been betrayed! I'll tell you everything ... The weather's getting worse and worse ... they're after me ... coming for me ... come quickly!
Sir August...? What now?
I want you to say the first thing that comes into your head when I say these words. Do you understand ... ? Blue ...
... bottle ...
Red ...
... head ...
Knight ...
Black...
... death ...
Love...
... death ...
Flower ...
... power ...
Nature ...
... preserve...
Secret ...
... love...
Hope...
... love ...
Fear ...
... love ...
Peter ...
How long have I been here?
Three days.
He said if it vanished, he'd know it was ... you who betrayed him. He took a huge risk. The ultimate test.
So I'm still ...
Would that I could say the Same.
Ah, but you haven't see the real me. Watch closely ...
We're not yet open for business, I'm afraid.
Shame. I was recommended. By a friend.
Really?
Sir August Merryweather? I was looking for something relaxing. Say, a Tuscan hillside in June?
Normally, we'd be eager to oblige 
Seriously?
Of course. Natural weather delivered to your door on demand. Down your phoneline. For limited periods.
You don't say. How real does it feel?
As real as you wish. Hot or cold. Humid or dry. Anything you like. Within reason.
There are limits?
The technology is brand new. Soon it will be more powerful. We anticipate a huge demand. Leave us your number. We'll be in touch.
No need. I'll call again.
So, Scott, why don't we start with you. Why are you here?
Well, it's kind of weird.
We don't judge here.
OK. Well, I just really met my Dad for the first time three days ago. He was partially frozen for thirty years. I never knew him growing up. He comes back and now he wants me to take over the family business.
And how do you feel about that?
I don't wanna take over the family business.
What do you want to do, Scott?
I don't know. I was thinking, maybe I'd be a vet or something, cause I like animals and stuff.
We don't label people here, Scott.
No, he's really evil.
Scott.
I just think, like, he hates me. I really think he wants to kill me.
OK, Scott, no one really wants to "kill" anyone here. They say it, but they don't mean it.
Oh, hello Vanessa. How was the flight?
Great.
How's Austin?
He's asleep.
You didn't...
Oh, God no, I made him sleep on the couch.
I'm proud of you.
Why?
Because you managed to resist Austin Power's charms.
Well, God knows he tried, but I've been rather firm with him, Mummy. You didn't tell me he was so obsessed with sex. It's bizarre.
You can't judge him by modern standards. He's very much a product of his times. In my day he could have any woman he wanted.
What about his teeth?
You have to understand, in Britain in the Sixties you could be a sex symbol and still have bad teeth. It didn't matter.
I just don't see it.
Just wait. Once Austin gets you in his charms, it's impossible to get out.
Did you ever...
Of course not. I was married to your father.
Did you ever want to?
Austin is very charming, very debonair. He's handsome, witty, has a knowledge of fine wines, sophisticated, a worldrenowned photographer. Women want him, men want to be him. He's a lover of love every bit an International Man of Mystery.
You didn't answer my question, Mum.
I know. Let me just say this: Austin was the most loyal and caring friend I ever had.
No, it's been too long. Best to leave things alone.
I'm on with a friend! Look, I'd better go. I love you.
I love you, Vanessa.
We also own the Franklin mint, which makes decorative handpainted theme plates for collectors. Some plates, like the Gone With The Wind series, have gone up in value as much as twohundred and forty percent, but, as with any investment, there is some risk involved.
Gentlemen, I have a plan. It's called blackmail. The Royal Family of Britain are the wealthiest landowners in the world. Either the Royal Family pays us an exorbitant amount of money, or we make it look like Prince Charles, the heir to the throne, has had an affair outside of marriage and, therefore, they would have to divorce.
Um, Dr. Evil, Prince Charles did have an affair. He admitted it, and they are now divorced, actually.
People have to tell me these things. I've been frozen for thirty years, throw me a bone here. OK, no problem. Here's my second plan. Back in the Sixties I had a weather changing machine that was in essence a sophisticated heat beam which we called a "laser." Using this laser, we punch a hole in the protective layer around the Earth, which we scientists call the "Ozone Layer." Slowly but surely, ultraviolet rays would pour in, increasing the risk of skin cancer. That is, unless the world pays us a hefty ransom.
Umm, that also has already happened.
Right. Oh, hell, let's just do what we always do. Let's hijack some nuclear weapons and hold the world hostage. Gentlemen, it's come to my attention that a breakaway Russian Republic called Kreplachistan will be transferring a nuclear warhead to the United Nations in a few days. Here's the plan. We get the warhead, and we hold the world ransom... ...FOR ONE MILLION DOLLARS!
Don't you think we should ask for more than a million dollars? A million dollars isn't that much money these days.
All right then... ...FIVE MILLION DOLLARS!
Virtucon alone makes over nine billion dollars a year.
Oh, really? Onehundred billion dollars. OK, make it happen. Anything else?
Hi.
Hello, Scott. I'm your father, Dr. Evil. I have a son! I have a son! Everyone, I have a son! Someday, Scott, this will all be yours.
I haven't seen you my whole life and now you show up and want a relationship? I hate you!
But Scott, who's going to take over the world when I die?
Not me.
An evil vet?
No. Maybe, like, work in a petting zoo or something.
An evil petting zoo?
You always do that! Anyways, this is really hard, because, you know, my Dad is really evil.
Scott my boy, come here. How was your day?
Well, me and a buddy went to the video arcade in town and, like, they don't speak English right, and so my buddy gets into a fight, and he goes 'hey, quit hassling me cause I don't speak French or whatever', and the other guy goes something in Paris talk, and I go 'um, just back off' and he goes 'get out' and I go 'make me'.
Fascinating. What are your plans for this evening?
Thought I'd stay in. There's a good tittie movie on Skinemax.
And that's how you want to live your life, is it?
Yeah. What?
Scott, I want you to meet Daddy's nemesis, Austin Powers.
Why are you feeding him? Why don't you just kill him?
In due time.
But what if he escapes? Why don't you just shoot him? What are you waiting for?
I have a better idea. I'm going to put him in an easilyescapable situation involving an overly elaborate and exotic death.
Why don't you just shoot him now? Here, I'll get a gun. We'll just shoot him. Bang! Dead. Done.
One more peep out of you and you're grounded. Let's begin.
Fine. Whatever. Mutated, illtempered sea bass it is. Come, let's return to dinner. Close the tank.
Aren't you going to watch them? They'll get away!
No, we'll leave them alone and not actually witness them dying, and we'll just assume it all went to plan.
I have a gun in my room. Give me five seconds, I'll come back and blow their brains out.
No, Scott. You just don't get it, do you?
Come, everyone, let us repair to the main chamber. Project Vulcan is about to begin. Scott, are you coming?
I don't want to.
Don't you want to see what Daddy does for a living?
Blow me.
What did you say?
Show me.
Dad, we just made a breakthrough in group!
I had the group liquidated, you little shit. They were insolent.
I hate you! I hate you! I wish I was never artificially created in a lab.
Scott, don't say that...
That was great, Mr. Keon, Dave. Thank you. OK, group, we have two new member. Say hello to Scott and his father, Mr.... Ehville?
Evil, actually, Doctor Evil.
No, the boy's right. I really am evil.
Don't be so hard on yourself. You're here, that's what's important. A journey of a thousand miles begins with one step.
Actually, the boy's quite astute. I am trying to kill him. My Evil Associates have cautioned against it, so here he is, unfortunately, alive.
We've heard from Scott, now let's hear from you.
The details of my life are quite inconsequential.
That's not true, Doctor. Please, tell us about your childhood.
Remember when we froze your semen, you said that if it looked like you weren't coming back to try and make you a son so that a part of you would live forever?
Yes.
Well, after a few years, we got sort of impatient. Dr. Evil, I want you to meet your son.
My son?
Yes. Scott!
Austin Powers is getting too close. He must be neutralized. Any suggestions?
Ya wohl I mean, yes wohl, Herr Doctor. I have created the ultimate weapon to defeat Austin Powers. Bring on the Fembots!
Breathtaking, Frau. These automated strumpets are the perfect bait for the degenerate Powers.
These are the latest word in android replicant technology. Lethal, efficient, brutal. And no man can resist their charms. Send in the soldiers!
Quite impressive.
Thank you, Herr Doctor.
I like to see girls of that caliber. By caliber, I mean both the barrel size of their guns and the high quality of their character... Forget it.
Release the sharks! All the sharks have had laser beams attached to their heads. I figure every creature deserves a warm meal.
Dr. Evil?
Yes, what is it? You're interrupting my moment of triumph.
It's about the sharks. Since you were frozen, they've been placed on the Endangered Species List. We tried to get some, but it will take months to clear up the red tape.
Right. Mr. Powers, we're going to lower you in a tank of piranhas with laser beams attached to their heads.
What is it now?
Well, we experimented with lasers, but you would be surprised at how heavy they are. They actually outweighed the piranha themselves, and the fish, well, they sank to the bottom and died.
I have one simple request sharks with friggin' laser beams attached to their heads, and it can't be done? Remind me again why I pay you people? What do we have?
Sea bass.
Right.
They're mutated sea bass.
Really? Are they illtempered?
Please allow me to demonstrate.
But my design was perfect! Your autonomic functions were shut down, and even though your arm wasn't frozen, the aging was retarded, therefore your right arm is only slightly older than the left.
Can't you see I'm only half a man? Look at me, I'm a freak!
But Dr. Evil, all you need to do is work with this tennis ball. Squeeze it for twenty minutes a day. A few months of that and it'll be just as strong as the other arm...
And look what you've done to Mr. Bigglesworth!
We could not anticipate feline complications due to the reanimation process&emdash;
Silence!
Ahhhhhhhhh!
Let this be a reminder to you all that this organization will not tolerate failure.
We've got a lot of work to do.
Someone help me! I'm still alive, only I'm very badly burned.
Some of you I know, some of you I'm meeting for the first time.
Hello up there! Anyone! Can someone call an ambulance? I'm in quite a lot of pain.
You've all been gathered here to form my Evil Cabinet. Excuse me.
Ow! You shot me!
Right. Okay. Moving on.
You shot me right in the arm! Why did
Commander, this is Slater in SoWest Com Three. We have a potential bogey with erratic vectoring and an unorthodox entry angle.
Is it one of ours?
No. Log Com Bird Twelve says its metalurg recon analysis is a standard alloy, not stealthy, not carbon composite. It does have an odd shape, sir.
What are you saying, son?
It appears to be in the shape of Bob's Big Boy, sir.
Oh my God, he's back.
In many ways, Bob's Big Boy never left, sir. He's always offered the same high quality meals at competitive prices.
Shut up.
Should we scramble TacHQ for an intercept?
What's its current position?
Commander, I have to log it...
That's a direct order. You didn't see a thing!
Hi, folks. You're entering a restricted zone. Can I see your security badges?
Sure.
Everything seems to be in order.
Hey, wait a minute
Here, have a piece of gum.
Here, have a piece of gum.
Don't mind if I do.
Hey! Wait a minute, that's my last piece of gum.
No, no, I want you to have it, even if it's my last piece.
No, no, I want you to have it, even if it's my last piece.
I'm going to go across the street and get you some sherbert.
Noooooooooooooo!
Where did you learn to shoot?
Danger Powers, personal effects.
Actually, my name's Austin Powers.
It says here, name Danger Powers.
Danger's my middle name.
OK, Austin Danger Powers: One blue crushedvelvet suit. One frilly lace cravat. One gold medallion with peace symbol. One pair of Italian shoes. One pair of tiedyed socks, purple. One vinyl recording album: Tom Jones, Live at Las Vegas. One Swedishmade penis enlarger pump.
That's not mine.
One credit card receipt for Swedish made penis enlarger pump, signed Austin Powers.
I'm telling you, baby, that's not mine.
One warranty card for Swedishmade penis enlarger pump, filled out by Austin Powers.
I don't even know what this is. This sort of thing ain't my bag, baby.
One book: SwedishMade Penis Enlarger Pumps and Me: This Sort of Thing Is My Bag, Baby, by Austin Powers.
Mr. Powers, my job is to acclimate you to the Nineties. You know, a lot's changed since 1967.
Well, as long as people are still having promiscuous sex with many anonymous partners without protection, while at the same time experimenting with mindexpanding drugs in a consequencefree environment, I'll be sound as a pound.
My mother's told me all about you.
If it's a lie, goddamn her. It it's the truth, goddamn me. God, I hope that's witty. How's your mum?
My mother's doing quite well, thank you very much.
OK, OK, man, don't get heavy, I'll sign. Just to get things moving, baby.
Listen, Mr. Powers, I look forward to working with you, but do me a favor and stop calling me baby. You can address me as Agent Kensington. We have to leave immediately. We've preserved your private jet just as you left it. It's waiting at Heathrow Airport.
My jumbo jet? Smashing baby.
Pretty groovy Jumbo Jet, eh? How does a hot chick like you end up working at the Ministry of Defense?
I went to Oxford and excelled in several subjects, but I ended up specializing in foreign languages. I wanted to travel  see the world. In my last year I was accepted into the M.O.D. in the Cultural Studies sector. I thought I was off on an exciting career, but my job was to read everything printed in every country. It's very boring. My whole day is spent reading wedding announcements in Farsi. If I do well with this case, I finally get promoted to field operative...
That's fascinating, Vanessa. Listen, why don't we go into the back and shag?
I beg your pardon?
I've been frozen for thirty years, man, I want to see if my bits and pieces are still working.
Excuse me?
My wedding tackle.
I'm sorry?
My meat and two veg.
Mr. Powers, please. I know that you must be a little confused, but we have a very serious situation at hand. I would appreciate it if you'd concentrate on our mission and give your libido a rest.
Have you ever made love to a Chigro?
A Chigro?
You know, a Chigro... part Chinese, part Negro... Chigro.
We don't use the term 'Negro' anymore. It's considered offensive.
That's right. You're supposed to say 'colored' now, right? Here's the stewardesses! Bring on the sexy stews!
Brrrr! She must be frigid. There's two things I know about life: one, Americans will never take to soccer. Two, Swedish girls and stewardesses love to shag! They're shagmad, man! Let me ask you a question, Vanessa, and be honest.
Sure.
Do I make you horny?
What?
Do I make you horny? Randy, you know. To you, am I eros manifest?
I hope this is part of the unfreezing process.
Listen, Vanessa, I'm a swinger... That's what I do, I swing.
I understand that, Mr. Powers, but let me be perfectly clear with you, perhaps to the point of being insulting. I will never have sex with you, ever. If you were the last man on Earth and I was the last woman on Earth, and the future of the human race depended on our having sex simply for procreation, I still would not have sex with you.
You've preserved my Jag! Smashing!
Yes, we've had it retrofitted with a secure cellular phone, an onboard computer, and a Global Geosynchronous Positioning Device. Oh, and finally, this.
Let me guess. The floss is garotte wire, the toothpaste contains plastic explosives, and the toothbrush is the detonation device.
No, actually. I don't know how to put this really. Well, there have been fabulous advances in the field of dentistry.
Why? What's wrong with my teeth?
Hey, who put this in here? Someone's playing a prank on me! Honestly, this isn't mine.
I'm sure.
I think I'll give that stew a dinga ling.
I love Las Vegas, man. Oh, I forgot my xray glasses.
Here, use mine.
I'm going to use a cover name. It's important that it be a generic name so that we don't draw attention to ourselves.
I can't see a bloody thing.
Oh, I forgot to tell you, they're prescription Xray glasses. I have very bad astigmatism.
Why did you leave so soon?
That cat Number Two has an Xray eyepatch. I get bad vibes from him, man. Listen, we should go back to the room, but first I have to go to the naughty chair and see a man about a dog.
Good morning, luv, who are you on the phone with?
Do you want to talk to him?
Good morning, Vanessa! I hope you have on clean underwear.
Why?
We've got a doctor's appointment an evil doctor's appointment.
A limousine has just pulled up.
Let me see.
Hello, hello. That's Dr. Evil's cat.
How do you know?
I never forget a pussy... cat.
Let's go get him!
He's too wellprotected right now.
We can't just sit here, Austin.
Let me tell you a story. There's these two bulls on top of a hill checking out some foxy cows in the meadow below. The young bull says, 'hey, why don't we run down the hill and shag us a cow?', and the wise old bull replies, 'no, why don't we walk down the hill and shag all the cows?'
I don't get it.
Well, you know... cows, and shagging.
Unfortunately, while you told that stupid story, Dr. Evil has escaped.
No worries, luv. We'll just give Basil a tinkle on the telling bone...
I hate having my picture taken.
You're crazy. The camera loves you, Vanessa.
Fancy a nibble?
I couldn't have another bite.
Watch out, you're on my hair!
Sorry. Move your hand to the left. There you go. Gorgeous.
Go! Just go!
I haven't had fun like that since college.
I'm sorry.
Why?
I'm sorry that bug up your ass had to die.
Always wanting to have fun, that's you in a nutshell.
No, this is me in a nutshell.
You're smashed, Vanessa.
I am not.
Oh, yes you are.
I'm not. I'm the sensible one. I'm always the designated driver.
I can't. You're drunk.
It's not that I'm drunk, I'm just beginning to see what my Mum was talking about. What was my mother like back in the Sixties? I'm dying to know.
She was very groovy. She was so in love with your Dad. If there was one other cat in this world that could have loved your Mum and treated her as well as you Dad did, it was me. But, unfortunately for yours truly, that train has sailed.
Really, Austin!
Look at her hands, baby! Those are carpenter's hands.
Austin, may I have a word with you?
Of course, luv.
Listen, I know I'm just being neurotic, but I can't shake this suspicious feeling about that Italian secretary, Ms. Fagina. I mean, I don't want to sound paranoid, but I've had some bad relationships in the past, and I have some jealousy issues. You went to her penthouse. It makes me feel so small to give into these insecurities, but I can't help but feel this weird, irrational, unfocused... well, jealousy. I'm sorry.
Don't be sorry. You're right to be suspicious. I shagged her. I shagged her rotten.
I can't believe you made love to her just like that. Did you use protection?
Of course, I had my ninemillimeter automatic.
No, did you use a condom?
Only sailors use condoms, man.
Not in the Nineties.
Well they should, filthy beggars, they go from port to port. Alotta meant nothing to me.
Well, it means something to me. If you want us to have a relationship, you've got to be a onewoman man.
It was just a shag, Vanessa. You're everything to me.
You just don't get it, do you, Austin? Good night. Welcome to the Nineties, you're going to be very lonely.
Hello, luv.
Thirty years of political and social upheaval. The fall of the Berlin wall, a female Prime Minister of England, the abolishment of Apartheid, a fascinating tapestry of human strum und drang.
Yeah, I can't believe Liberace was gay. Women loved him, man. I didn't see that one coming.
Basil was very concerned to know where you were last night.
Out and about, doing odds and sods.
I'll tell him. By the way, I've decided we should keep our relationship strictly professional.
Since I've been unfrozen, I've had a rancid taste in my mouth. Do you have a piece of gum?
Do you think she's prettier than I?
Who?
You know who.
No! Don't lay your hangups on me, Vanessa. You're being very trippy.
I'm looking at you, and the whole time I can't help thinking you had your willie inside her hootchiekooch.
Austin, we don't look anything like our photo badges.
Don't worry, baby. I picked up a mind control technique during my travels to India. I learned it from my guru, the late Guru Shastri, a chaste man who mysteriously died of a disease that had all the hallmarks of syphilis. Just watch me. Watch me, now.
Thank God, Austin, we made it.
Yes, act naturally and we'll split this scene the way we came in, Vanessa.
Does that make you horny?
Not now, Austin.
First, I plan to soil myself. Then, I plan to regroup and think about the next move. Any thoughts?
Sadly, no. Hold on! I always keep this on me just in case.
All right, I get it. I have bad teeth. You have to understand, in Britain in the Sixties you could be a sex symbol and still have bad teeth. It didn't matter.
No, no, no. We'll use the floss to get to the ledge.
Smashing idea! Give it to me.
Not a good time to lose one's head.
Indeed.
That's not the way to get ahead in life.
Yes.
It's a shame he wasn't more headstrong.
Shut up.
Fair enough.
What do we do now?
We've got a freaked out square and world annihilation is his bag. You go get help. I'm gonna stay here and keep an eye on the bad Doctor.
I'm not going anywhere. We're a team.
Too right, youth. That's why I need you to lead the troops.
I'll hurry back.
Listen, Vanessa, whatever happens, I just want you to know that I feel bad about shagging that Italian girl. I had a sip of sake and all of the sudden, I don't know what happened. The whole time I was shagging her I mean really shagging her, I mean it was crazy, I was like a huge mechanical piston, in and out, IN and OUT!
Austin, what's your point?
Anyways, what I'm trying to say is that if you want me to be a onewoman man, well, that's just groovy, because... I love you.
Oh, behave!
It's not what it looks like, Vanessa. At ease, boys.
Likewise.
I can explain. They attacked me. Gas came out of her...well, and then they... and I...
I believe you, Austin. Let's go.
Hold on a tick, let me put on my togs.
Follow me! We're going to have to jump over the rail!
Are you crazy?
Don't worry!
Austin, I'm coming with you.
I'm going it alone this time, Vanessa. I have a followup visit with the Evil Doctor.
I'll secure the perimeter.
I have something to tell you.
Lay it on me.
I love you, Austin.
That's fab, because I love you, too, Vanessa.
Kiss me.
Behave!
What's wrong with your hand?
Don't try to suck up to me! It's a little late for that. I'm a freak! Look at it, it's been rendered useless.
I'm sorry, baby, I'm just not grocking your head space.
Oh forget it. As a fellow player on the international stage, Mr. Powers, I'm sure you'll enjoy watching the curtain fall on the third and final act.
Dr. Evil, do you really expect them to pay?
No, Mr. Powers, I expect them to die. Even after they pay me the money, I'm still going to melt all the cities of the world with hot magma. All right, guard, begin the unnecessarily SlowMoving Dipping Mechanism.
I've got you, Dr. Evil!
Well done, Mr. Powers. We're not so different, you and I. It's true, you're British, and I'm Belgian. You have a full head of hair, mine is slightly receding. You're thin, I'm about forty pounds overweight. OK, we are different, I'm not making a very good point. However, isn't it ironic, Mr. Powers, that the very things you stand for swinging, free love, parties, distrust of authority are all now, in the Nineties, considered to be... evil? Maybe we have more in common than you care to admit.
No, man, what we swingers were rebelling against were uptight squares like you, whose bag was money and world domination. We were innocent, man. If we'd known the consequences of our sexual liberation, we would have done things differently, but the spirit would have remained the same. It's freedom, man.
Your freedom has cause more pain and suffering in the world than any plan I ever dreamed of. Face it, freedom failed.
That's why right now is a very groovy time, man. We still have freedom, but we also have responsibility.
Really, there's nothing more pathetic than an aging hipster.
It seems the tables have turned again, Dr. Evil.
Not really. Kill the little bastard. See what I care.
Man, you are one chilly square!
Good afternoon, Mr. Powers, I'm the Destructacon 5000. I'm programmed to prevent you from progressing beyond this point. You might as well surrender. Resistance is futile. Your odds of survival are 23,763,273 to...
Well, Destructacon 5000, you have quite a head on your shoulders, I dare to coin.
Yes, I am programmed to answer any question.
Really? Let me ask you this. What is love?
That does not compute.
Why not? It's a question.
Love is... love is... love is...
Hey Austin Powers, it's me, Mick Jagger.
Hey, Mick!
Are you more satisfied now sexually, Austin?
Well, you can't always get what you want.
"You can't always get what you want!" That's a great title for a song! I'm gonna write that, and it'll be a big hit.
Good on ya, man.
Groovy!
Hello, Austin. This is Basil Exposition, Chief of British Intelligence. You're Austin Powers, International Man of Mystery, and you're with Agent Mrs. Kensington. The year is 1967, and you're talking on a picture phone.
We know all that, Exposition.
I just wanted to be extremely clear so that everyone knows what's going on at any given time. We've just received word that Dr. Evil, the ultimate square, is planning to take over the world.
Dr. Evil? I thought I put him in jail for good.
I'm afraid not. Earlier this week, Dr. Evil escaped from Zedel Edel Prison in Baaden Baaden and now he's planning a trap for you tonight at the Electric Psychedelic Pussycat Swinger's Club in Picadilly Circus here in swinging London.
Just where you'd never think to look for him. We'll be there.
Good luck, Austin.
Thank you.
Oh, and Austin...
Yes?
Be careful.
Thank you. Let's go, baby!
Where am I?
You're in the Ministry of Defense. It's 1997. You've been cryogenically frozen for thirty years.
WHO ARE THESE PEOPLE?
The shouting is a temporary side effect of the unfreezing process.
Yes, I'm having trouble controlling... THE VOLUME OF MY VOICE!
You might also experience a slight fever, dry mouth, and flatulence at moments of extreme relaxation. Austin, this is Commander Gilmour, Strategic Command, and General Borschevsky, Russian Intelligence.
Russian Intelligence? Are you mad?
A lot's happened since you were frozen, Austin. The cold war's over.
Thank God. Those capitalist dogs will finally pay for their crimes against the people, hey Comrades?
We won, Austin.
Groovy. Smashing! Good on ya! Nice tie. Yea capitalism!
When do I begin?
Immediately. You'll be working with Ms. Kensington.
You mean Mrs. Kensington?
No, Austin, Mrs. Kensington has long since retired. Ms. Kensington is her daughter.
Vanessa's one of our top agents.
My God, Vanessa's got a smashing body. I bet she shags like a minx. How do I tell them that because of the unfreezing process, I have no inner monologue? I hope I didn't say that out loud just now.
Yes, well...Agent Kensington will get you set up. She's very dedicated. Perhaps, a little too dedicated. She's got a bit of a bug up her ass. Good luck, Austin, the world's depending on you.
Thank you, Exposition.
Oh, and Austin...
Yes?
Be careful.
Thanks.
Hello Austin. Hello Vanessa. This is Basil Exposition, from British Intelligence. There's a company in Las Vegas called Virtucon that we think may be linked to Dr. Evil. Many of the Virtucon executives gamble at the hotel/casino where you'll be staying. That's the first place you should look. Well, I'm off to the chat rooms.
Thank you, Exposition.
Oh, and Austin...
Yes?
Be careful.
Hello, Austin, this is Basil Exposition from British Intelligence. Thank you for confirming the link between Dr. Evil and Virtucon. Find out what part Virtucon plays in something called Project Vulcan. I'll need you and Vanessa to get on that immediately.
Right away, Exposition.
Where is Vanessa, by the way?
She's working on another lead right now.
Then you'll have to go it alone. Good luck.
Thank you, Basil.
Oh, and Austin...
Yes?
Let me remind you that because of the unfreezing process you might experience flatulence at moments of extreme relaxation.
Oh, yes. Thank you.
There's one more thing, Austin.
Yes?
Be careful.
Thank you.
Hello, Exposition.
Austin, Vanessa, let me bring you up to speed. Dr. Evil has high jacked a nuclear warhead from Kreplachistan and is holding the world ransom for onehundred billion dollars. If the world doesn't pay up in four days, he's threatening to destroy the world.
Thank you, Exposition. Only two things, scare me, and one is nuclear war.
What's the other?
Excuse me?
What's the other thing you're scared of?
Carnies.
What?
Circus folk. Nomads, you know. They smell like cabbage.
Indeed... If we could get back to the business at hand. It's one thing to have a warhead, it's quite another thing to have the missiles to launch it.
Maybe these photographs are the last piece of that puzzle. I've uncovered the details on Project Vulcan. It's a new subterranean warhead delivery system.
Good God, and underground missile. We've long feared such a development.
My God, Austin, what have you done?
That's not your mother, that's a man!
I'm sorry, Basil, I thought she was a man.
Damn it, man! You're talking about my mother!
You must admit, she is rather mannish. No offense, but if that's a woman, it looks like she's been beaten with an ugly stick.
All right, Austin, I think you should go.
I think if everyone were honest, they'd confess that the lady looks exactly like a man in drag.
I'm leaving! Oh, and Austin?
Yes, Basil?
Be careful.
Thanks.
Well, Austin, you've stopped Dr. Evil from destroying the world with his subterranean nuclear probe, and somehow you and Agent Kensington managed to escape unscathed from his evil lair.
I'd say that about sums it up, Exposition.
Not quite, actually. Vanessa, I have something for you.
Congratulations, Field Agent Kensington!
Austin, I have something for you as well.
Here's the number of my dentist, he's first rate. Ring him up, he'll look after you.
Thanks, Basil. Maybe the Nineties aren't so bad after all.
But, wait, I you got me again. Oh, and Austin
Yes Basil?
Be careful!
Austin Powers? Hi, I'm Andy Warhol.
Hey, how are you?
Hungry.
Here, have this can of Campbell's Tomato Soup.
I'm going to paint this can of soup and become famous and not give you any credit for it.
If you can become famous, everyone will have their fifteen minutes of fame, man.
"Fifteen minutes of fame?" I'm going to use that quote and not give you any credit for that, either.
Smashing!
You seem surprised to see me.
I thought you'd quit while you were ahead.
What, and watch all my earnings go... Down the toilet?
What do you want, Mr... Cunningham, was it?
Call me Ritchie, Miss Fagina. May I call you Alotta... Please?
You may.
Your boss, Number Two, I understand that cat's involved in big underground drills.
Virtucon's main interest is in cable television, but they do have a subterranean construction division, yes. How did you know?
I didn't, baby, you just told me.
It's for the mining industry, Mr. Cunningham. We can talk about business later. But first, let me slip into something more comfortable.
Behave!
Come in.
I'd rather talk about Number Two.
Don't you like girls, Mr. Cunningham? Come in, and I'll show you everything you need to know.
May I wash you?
Groovy.
In Japan, men come first and women come second.
Or sometimes not at all.
Care for some saki?
Saki it to me!
How do you feel, Mr. Cunningham?
Mmmm... I feel extreme relaxation.
'Pardon me for being rude, It was not me, it was my food. It just popped up to say hello, and now it's gone back down below.'
That's very clever. Do you know any other poems?
'Milk, milk, lemonade. Round the corner fudge is made. Stick your finger in the hole, And out comes a tootsie roll!'
Thank you, that's beautiful. To your health.
To my health.
Kiss me.
Do you mind if I ask you a personal question?
Is it about my teeth?
Yes.
Damn. What exactly do you do at Virtucon?
I'll tell you all in due time, after we make love. But first, tell me another poem.
I think it was Wordsworth who penned this little gem: 'Press the button, pull the chain, out comes a chocolate choochoo train.'
Oh, you're very clever. Let's make love, you silly, hairy little man.
What is it?
Not much. Glorified cherry bomb. Right by the civil defense sign? Some geek's idea of irony. I been saying we need a camera in this hall.
There's nothing in this hall. Someone's pulling your chain, as usual.
Unless it's a diversion. Milo's in my office. He was tailgating, so I 
That kid's the great white hope.
I could get it out of him.
You're not listening.
Who're these guys?
Where is he?
We're too late. Take a look.
Fellas, I'm gonna have to ask you to leave here now.
Wait a second. I'm the one who found out he was mucking around in here in the first place.
We're all grateful for that. Really. Go out the way you came in?
We tried the big vaporware number, Gary, it's nosale.
Can we buy into their IPO? Or is that a Justice Dept. problem?
There is no public offering. The guy who wrote it joined some freakazoid cult in San Luis Obispo. 'Wrote this just to run their web site.
Maybe he'll get back to work.
Speaking of which...
Yeah, yeah.
Did you download Corey? In San Jose?
Damn. 'Have to go back over there. Be so much easier if we could walk in the front door.
You don't look anything like a three yearold.
So  how far are we from the campus?
Oh we're not going to the campus.
So how'd you like the house?
His Snapples were in alphabetical order.
Well, he micromanaged the company till it got too big... 'Guess he needs to micromanage something.
Every geek here's got a thing for Lisa. But that's about the biggest reaction she's had to anybody.
She's a programmer?
Heavy graphical background, doing designinterface for Skywire apps. You'll be working with her.
I've got a girlfriend, remember?
Right. That's rare around here. You know how nuns' remarried to Jesus? 'Posties are married to Outpost.
What're they building?
#21. Way behind schedule. It's top secret, but everybody knows it's a digital broadcast space. They see the dishes on top, the fiber optics going in.
Gary's not into fiber optics. He's betting everything on the satellites.
You wanna survive in the software business, you cover your bets... I gotta say, this is the weirdest car anybody ever requested.
...You got my Email?
And your phone messages. You wanna do what you do, it's not a crime.
Is that how Larry feels?
Uh. Not exactly.
Wanted to say goodbye to him...
Hey, we got seed money for the startup! A millionfive!
We rented a loft in Sunnyvale. You know what's the bad part? We can't talk about work anymore. We're competitors! The venture capitalists made us sign like 100 confidentiality forms.
Outpost made me sign 1,000. 'Guess we'll find out what else we have to talk about. Life stuff.
But these, like, White Supremacists trashed my office, last week.
What?!
They're in the neighborhood. They usually hassle Vietnamese grocers.
Jesus, Teddy.
I'm cool. They didn't touch the machine. Or my disks. Probably didn't know what they were. So, you a Moonie yet? Milo?
I met this girl.
What? Come on. Is it serious?
I don't know.
Did you tell Alice?
No! I keep thinking it'll go away. But there's this  connection. She's been hacking since she was little, she had to move around a lot. Plus I see her every day, we're working on the same program. She's  beautiful.
A beautiful geek? I don't wanna sound paranoid, or like a pig, but what're the chances?
What d'you mean?
I dunno. I guess Larry's got me totally suspicious of that place.
What does that mean?
Milo, geeks don't have two girlfriends. Most don't have one.
I didn't plan this.
Lisa.
You know my name.
You know mine.
You're famous around here.
I'm getting a teacher's pet rep.
I wouldn't worry about it. You've gotta figure most people around here were their teachers' pets.
...Were you?
We moved around so much I barely knew my teachers.
Me too! Were you an Army brat or something?
...Something like that. Yeah.
Didn't mean to pry. I just have this theory. Some of us who got to good at this? We were  escaping something.
Did I say something?
No, I know what you mean. I used to spend my life wishing people could be like computers. Least they make sense. Sometimes you think they've betrayed you. Like a person would. But then you see, no, you just missed a step. You can go back and make it all work.
What've you got there?
Graphical interfaces. For Skywire? I'm s'posed to coordinate with you.
Show me.
Cool!
Yeah? I ran it for lots of platforms, ranging from the narrowest bandwidth to 
Did you wanna be alone?
No. Please.
They just pushed up the schedule on Skywire apps. How fast are you going?
"There is no second place." Plus every time I get jammedup, Gary has an inspiration. Is it like that with your counselor?
Mine's not the CEO. He barely remembers to take a shower.
Right, right. But does he ever just, like, hand you code?
Maybe once. I rewrote it, anyway.
You're compulsive.
Mmmmore like  I have a little trouble. Trusting people.
Why's that?
Long story. Not that interesting.
So, when you were talking about wishing people were more like computers. Was that then? Or now?
Then and now. But not right now.
That's great. I  didn't know.
She saved my life.
I snuck into #21.
Why would you do a thing like 
You thought about it too. You've been suspicious for a while. But it's not happening in there. It's happening in the Day Care.
The Day Care?
It's easy to know who the smart geeks are, the schools tell 'em. They upload medical files, school records, pharmacy files. They'd be happy just to steal code forever. But when a program gets close to fruition. Like Teddy. He was almost there.
But why would they ?
You know. There is no second place. And what's the risk? The killings're undetectable, they're handtailored, they make "sense." I mean, they're in the information business. They have scenarios for all of us, too. In case we find out too much.
I know why you're so secretive. Why you won't let anybody near you. I know what he did to you.
Oh yeah?
Is that my  scenario? Tell me.
They'd frame him.
He's out of prison?
They're already watching you. If they had to, they'd give him this drug that mimics an alcoholic blackout. He'd wake up not even remembering his "act of revenge."
...Milo?
Hmm?
I always felt if a  boy I liked ever found out  he'd run. He'd think I was unclean.
No, no. Never.
What about the FBI?
They've got this guy in the DOJ, maybe others. We tell the wrong person, it's over.
Who can we trust?
There's always a logical answer  you just have to define the question.
Do we post it on the Net?
There're so many disinformation sites about Gary already. Where he has devil's horns or they crop him in with Saddam Hussein.
The mainstream media. TV, or a newsmagazine.
Right. But Gary's tiedin to a lot of media conglomerates. Have to be careful who we pick.
We could crossreference a data base on media ownership. But not on our own computers. Not even at home.
Certainly not at my happy home.
He's buying up pretty much everything: cable companies, baby bells, picture libraries, museum rights, film archives... Getting ready for Skywire.
What about "60 Minutes."
Yeah, they dig stuff like this. "CBS News has partnered with Outpost Information Systems in a cable news network due to launch Fall of 2001."
But still, you can't say CBS wouldn't love to break something like 
Say there's just one "mole" working there, like Barton at the DOJ. How do we know he's not the guy we've contacted? Or she? Or the guy she works for?
Time?
TimeWarner has a 40 per cent stake in Gary's settop device. That also takes out CNN. "GE joins Outpost in new venture," which means NBC is out. "Disney joins Outpost," ABC is out. "Outpost and Newscorp in new deal," Fox is out. Any of these places could have a mole. Or all of 'em. It's like a a continuous loop. We can go to some alternative press place that 1,000 people read, get them and us killed. But anything big enough for this is a parent of or a subsidiary to something Gary's got a finger in!
How close are you?
What?
He's got 12 satellites up. He's got dishes on top of 21. He's building this  meganetwork for Skywire. Let's use it.
We can't just assume they're standing by to receive Skywire 12 months from launch. I'd have to write in an aglet.
A what?
It's how online services push logos they wanna sell you. You don't ask for 'em, they just appear. 'Have to work on it somewhere besides my office or my house. And then the quality of the broadcast wouldn't exactly be digital, that's 12 months away.
But they'd still get the idea, right?
You'd have to design a graphic interface to make the data pop. Maybe some audio, too. To tie it all in to Gary. How long would that take you?
It's a standard GUI. Once I've got a concept, it's maybe three day's work.
Gary knows I'm close on Skywire. We have to do this fast.
Before they kill somebody else, too.
Oh, man. I'd have to get into Gary's house. To get the satellite positions.
You mean  break in?
I don't know 
And what if the broadcast dishes on top of 21 aren't hot yet? You said the place isn't finished.
Why were you so careless?
I thought the worst they would do is fire me. Who knew they took termination so literally?
Why were you snooping in my office?
Oh. I liked you. I was checking you out.
'Think everybody in this place is here the same reason we are?
'Cause their apartments might be bugged?
I told Teddy about you.
What'd he say?
"A beautiful geek? What're the chances?"
I felt guilty. 'Cause I "owed so much" to Alice. But even then I was starting to wonder. Is it so great to be so consumed by this one thing that you let another person do your thinking for you? If you have a lucrative skill, it's all anybody wants from you. You grow older but you don't grow up. You turn into  into 
Gary.
Great. I knocked off the aglet, as soon as I get a passable version of Skywire we're there.
The dishes are juiced up, too.
Thank God.
Milo? Shrot suspects somebody broke into #21. I was in his office when he was reviewing the card readouts.
They know I broke in. Alice helped me. Shrot's not one of them. He's blundering into this on his own.
He doesn't know about the Day Care.
Hardly anybody does, that's the beauty part. No cameras, the DOJ doesn't bother with it, it's accessed by a tunnel they boast about. You know the best place to hide a leaf?
Yeah, that's old, in a tree.
Oh.
Milo? What if Shrot notices somebody entered the Day Care at four A.M.? And tells them about it?
Same with the excerpts I'm choosing: they'll play against any of the images you described.
Perfect. How am I gonna get away from the party long enough to 
You could always say you have to go the bathroom.
That's lame, isn't it?
You'll come up with something.
Does he know you know?
He suspects I know something. I think he was sort of  explaining himself to me, in case I do. We have to go in tonight. I'm two hours from a Beta version. But I've gotta go home for an hour.
Why?!
She called to apologize. I said I was pulling an allnighter. She said then come home just to say Hi. Which I always do when we fight, it's suspicious if I don't.
Please don't go.
At this point the worst thing I could do is anything out of the ordinary.
Meet me at the other location.
Tell me you're not calling on your car phone?!
They know, I had no choice. Get out of the house now! Do you have a laptop?
It's three years old, it 
Bring it to the other location.
But you said the other 
Maybe it's the satellite.
Let's try #2.
...He knows.
What?
He's been altering the coordinates since we logged on. He's a step ahead. Let's jump to #12.
Latitude 47 degrees.
Wait a second. He knows I know.
Could it be a glitch? Something the construction workers caused?
Unlikely. All 14 cameras are frozen. Do we call Randy and Phil? Tell 'em there may have been a breakin?
Not yet. 'Love to bust my ass cause I'm not in frigging Mensa. I swear to God, it's that kid Milo, I told 'em so in the first place, but they didn't even wanna hear about it. Let's run a printout on card entries.
Every entry was authorized.
Keep looking.
What're we looking for?
Any irregularity in the pattern.
Delbert seems to enter #21 twice. Without leaving the first time.
Let's get him in here.
Get the backslash, the colon, keys kids don't use but geeks do. What would Milo want in here, anyway?
They know. 'Just they don't trust me with it. So we'll get the evidence, first, ask questions later.
You calling Phil and Randy?
I'm calling Gary.
Come with me.
Where we going?
Now what are we doing? I don't get any of this shit!
I launched Skywire. Just pray the last set of coordinates Milo sent me connected us to Gary's satellite.
All the companies know. The faculties tell 'em. At the target schools.
In exchange for endowments. They should just drop the pretense and name the schools after 'em.
I think you should go.
You do?
I mean, it's your life.
I know you lost all his work. Maybe I could come down here and 
You are naive. Look at your employment contract: you can't work anywhere else in this field for at least few years. Not that I don't miss you.
Just thought his work should go on.
He was on the verge of something, too. He was gonna show us the next day. He said "The answer's not in the box, it's in the band." Know what it means?
It's only meaningful when you've got 40,000 lines of code to back it up.
Man, could he write code. Totally elegant. He had his own style.
Those really weird, short lines.
Your app kind of blew mine out of the water.
We'll come up with the next big thing.
...You wanna work  here?
Got out of my other commitment.
You guys'll be using Teddy's old space, is that okay?
Cool.
This is good. Who did it?
'Startup not 50 miles from here. Kid's on Prozac.
Maybe we should all get on it.
What'd the girl say?
There may be a little less trust after your outburst.
Hasn't affected his work, though.
Nothing does. Still. I want him to like me.
Help me change the Skywire settings. Add five degrees to each satellite coordinate.
Gary, don't worry, we 
Just do what I'm asking!
Okay, #2.
Longitude 48 degrees 06 minutes 
Ready for number three?
Let's go.
Longitude 109 
Wait... He knows.
What?
'Knows I'm altering the coordinates. Let's jump to #12.
Gary?
Just do it.
...Hello?
Milo? Gary Boyd. I'm hoping you and your friend can come up here. We've made some amazing strides in digital convergence. I'd love to show them to you.
You would? Wow. When would we come? 'Think he hung up.
Cool!
Would you like a Coke or something?
Oh. No thanks.
You know a lot about art, I guess.
There's a rumor going around, maybe you've heard it.
I've only shown this to three other people. I bought 200, we've launched 12 so far. I keep the coordinates in this room. It's left over from SDI. Reagan's Star Wars technology? They orbit 426 miles up.
Low enough to relay internet traffic.
Among other things... We know convergence is the real superhighway: all the PC's, TV's, phones, etc. linked together. Why cram it into a cable if you can use the whole sky?
Skywire.
The content filer has t'be written into the media files so bits coming off the satellite can be read by multiplatforms. Really, omniplatforms. Including whatever new hardware emerges.
It needs a more objectoriented language. This doesn't scale, does it?
You'd have to start practically from scratch. But this is all you'd be working on. No marketing meetings, no product seminars. We can't waste the time. Half the Valley's working on convergence. So're media conglomerates, cable companies, phone companies. 'Can't finish second, Milo. There is no second... Now what would you like to ask me?
When you get to a certain age, you start wondering. About your legacy. I doubt you even remember Outpost 1.0 
I do!
Yeah? I wanna feel like I did when I wrote that. But I'm 42, that's 100 in cyberyears. I look at you and see the things that got me here. But somehow got away.
No! Just waiting for my counselor to come by and introduce himself.
Okay. I'm Gary.
'Think I should buy some originals?
...Do I?
Somebody said I'm just another Philistine. With reproductions.
That's insane. You're ahead of your time.
That's what I told her. My wife.
Could work with a new switch. There may be a few more things hidden.
Don't spend too much time searching. You ever vetted somebody's old code before? It's a different skill. Stay close to the surface. The besthidden secrets are in plain sight. You know the best place to hide a leaf, right? In a tree.
How's it going?
Maybe I'm going too fast.
Too fast? At least four companies're on the verge of workable convergence systems, Milo, they 
It's okay. Really.
Take a look at this. Slightly different approach.
You did this  overnight?
You're making me young again.
Milo. What's up?
Well  you sent for me.
Right... Right.
You really wrote this just today?
What're you implying.
Nothing!
Everything I do is under scrutiny. The questions they ask, trying to make anything strategic look sordid. I'm confused. Doesn't everybody in business try to get ahead?
I'm sure.
The purpose of this company isn't to destroy our competitors any more than the purpose of living is to breath. But the software business is binary: you're a zero or a one. Being obsessive isn't a crime. It's a character trait.
It scales, don't you think?
Definitely.
I heard what happened.
Were the flags for Teddy?
Had you talked to him much lately?
Just once. 'Guess I was worried we didn't have anything to talk about, since work was offlimits. Non disclosure.
Did you?
Talk about work? Never!
I meant did you find other stuff to 
Oh. Yeah.
You've been coming in early.
It helps. Alice said it would help. To focus on something. 'Don't know what I'd do without her.
Wow. You must have 20,000 lines of code there...
34,000. But they're real short lines. 'Just came out that way.
Been thinking about the push mechanism in the handler. And it came over me: it's in the wrong place.
The wrong place?
The answer's not in the box. It's in the band.
Gary, hi.
You look a little tired.
I'm okay. It's going well!
'Have a look?
Sure.
Why did you move around so much? When you were a kid.
...My dad was a compulsive gambler. Only he didn't think he was. That applied to guys who didn't have a "system." "Losers," who played games of chance. He could "read" people, so chance had nothing to do with it. No matter how deep a hole he dug himself, he'd give you the whole speech. And you'd better not point out the obvious. His creditors would catch up to him. Loan sharks or whatever. He'd wake us in the middle of the night. Off we'd go, again.
What would you tell the kids? At your new school? You had to come up with a good story, right?
No. I just went deeper into the machine. Preferred being the geek to having to explain. Lying would've been worse.
...Worse?
Cause he was a liar. And I hated him. "Get your head out of that machine, wise up to the real world." The more he mocked me the deeper I went. Cause if being savvy meant being like him  Guess that's why I'm kind of clueless, even now. Didn't cultivate my conniving side. 'Not sure I even have one.
Don't be so hard on yourself. With a brain like yours, you could connive with the best of 'em I bet.
That's great! Thanks.
'Sorry about the late notice...
"Dear Lisa. I've enjoyed working with you. I'd be lying if I didn't say I find you attractive. But in my heart I know that Alice..." You left my party to send Email?
I couldn't do it at work cause of security or at home for  obvious reasons.
You could've handwritten it.
I'm not much good at handwriting. Or parties.
Oh, that's right. You're "clueless."
Gary, I 
You see what's hanging on the wall?
I hope you know what you mean to me. Not just because of what you're doing. Because of who you are.
I do know, Gary. I feel the same way. I thought I was coming here for a job. But it's meant a lot more.
I'm pretty close. But when I wrote the last contact switches, it wiped out a piece of the content filer. You know what it's like, writing software.
I do know. You focus on the big problem. But somewhere down the chain, something breaks down. Something gets destroyed. At first it's upsetting. You feel you've lost control.
Milo? I'm Danny.
Oh hi.
'Couldn't convince Teddy to come?
He's pretty tight with his family.
We could move 'em up here.
He just likes to write code. He's bummed there's so much secrecy and competition, everybody trying to own everything.
Who's that?
I think they call him the "Houseman." 'Cause "guard" sounds too weird.
That's gotta kill him, right?
Outpost was his baby, sure. On the other hand, we just learned Gary Boyd owns the Skywire satellites. Personally.
Outpost doesn't own em.
Conglomerates're lined up to finance the launch of the remaining satellites. They'll pay him a huge premium to get online.
That'd change with a criminal indictment.
There's no hard evidence he knew about this. Anybody who could implicate him seems to've vanished.
Isn't there a stigma? Bankrolling this guy?
Stigma? Larry! 60 billion buys you some slack in this world.
And the kid who wrote Skywire  then gave it away? They're calling him the digital Robin Hood.
Milo. Surprised he's not your guest.
We tried!
You better believe everybody's trying to sign him up.
You're living here?
'Thought if I relocated it could help my case. I'm writing programs for the local public access station. Where any whackjob with 100 bucks gets his own show? God, does it suck. Can you help me?
Sure, I'll see what I can do.
Well I parked illegally. See y'later?
'Forgot to introduce you. I have a girlfriend.
This is the biggest Beta demo in like the history of software. You'd be my partner.
You can't preempt Yoga, that's our biggest show.
Brian! You wanna be a big deal, don't you? That's your dream in life.
Will I get to work for Outpost?
No. But you can write your own ticket in the Valley after this. We're gonna bring down Outpost.
What?
What'd they ever do for you?
Okay.
Great. Great! We need to drag a lot of heavy stuff in front of the door 
What?!
Wanna be a part of history?
You're interfaced with our dish.
Gimme the coordinates?
Is it your software?
Is it your dish?
What?!
He's working backwards, too. Let's do number five?
...When did you know?
You should've called a few times to bug me about your job prospects.
Don't worry, Milo. I'm here as a friend. Or maybe a supplicant.
Right... What's that mean again?
Beggar. We're at a disadvantage with Outpost. Our experts aren't as smart as theirs. Sometimes we can't tell which technologies pose the threat of a monopoly. We need a really smart guy to help us pick our fights. I'm taking a shot in the dark, here. I can offer you 32,000 a year, a Buick. I'm hoping you've got a feeling it's the right thing to do.
It's just  I kind of feel the need to do something with my ability. Create something...
Like I said: shot in the dark.
Mr. Barton, do you remember me?
...It's  Milo, isn't it?
Yes sir. I need to talk to you.
Give me two seconds with Lacy here? Go on in, I won't be a moment.
Milo?
Yeah. Hi. Thank you for seeing me.
Have a seat.
What seems to be the problem? You look a little upset.
I am. I am, sir.
Milo?
My friend, my best friend, Teddy, was killed in Silicon Valley.
My goodness.
It was racially motivated. He's Chinese. He was. And... I know sometimes the FBI gets involved with that. Don't they?
If there's a Civil Rights violation. But generally we let the local police and DA do their work first.
I  just wanna help bring these guys to justice. They're neoNazis.
Let me look into it, see what's being done. Frankly, it's not my area.
'Just didn't know who else to talk to.
And Outpost? You're happy there?
Yes sir.
'Didn't mention he was going to the Justice Department?
No.
Not like him, is it? To do a thing like that without telling you. You're not losing your hold on him, are you?
He'll tell me when he gets home.
That'll be a test, won't it?
Instead of busting my chops you should do something about that girl. Fire her. Or something.
Lisa's an extremely valuable member of the Skywire team. We've got our eyes on her. You keep yours on Milo.
Prick.
He said it made sense that Gary's code was like Teddy's, that that clich about great minds was true. Said it was all about his own guilt. Plus, he has a tendency to get Gary mixedup with his dad once in a while. It always passes.
He wasn't acting?
I don't think he knows how.
I think I kind of lost it. I was just so thrilled to be talking to the richest, most powerful... 'Didn't know I even cared about that stuff.
C'mon, how often do you talk to somebody who's been on the cover of Time. Three of four times.
A lot of what Larry says is true. They just clone stuff, or reverse engineer it, and everybody gets stuck with their inferior version cause they 
Then you've gotta ask him about that.
It's important.
If he's really a bully, he won't cop to it, anyway.
Bully? Are we talking about Gary Boyd? Or your dad.
When I was a kid? And he was moving us all over the place? I spent all my time writing stuff on Outpost 1.0. I thought Gary Boyd was the greatest.
But he's not quite the same guy anymore. Don't get your hopes too high?
If my dad'd leveled with me like that even once... The weird thing is, my fantasy he could somehow be like the old Gary? It's his fantasy, too.
I think that's great, Milo. I do.
...But?
Didn't you visit the campus?
I forgot. That's why you have to help me decide.
No way. You have this  destiny.
C'mon, I wouldn't have a destiny without you. My destiny would be dying at 20. From eating 
Don't bring that up. Like a different girlfriend would'd've let you die?
You saved my life in alot of ways.
When's Brian coming for the TV?
Prob'ly waiting by the phone for Outpost to call. We'll leave it for him?
That took some fun out of 
We're not gonna let it.
You know he's never been anybody's counselor before?
Milo! What about ?
To our new life. ...What's wrong?
That's what I need to ask you. You know you can't keep anything from me.
He gave me some new codefixes this morning. I said, "Did you really do this just today?" Cause I was impressed. He said "What're you implying?"
It's the way he said it. Just the way my dad did, when he was caught in a lie. That's how you knew you were onto something ugly.
What would it mean, anyway? If he didn't write it?
That's what I'm asking myself. Does he have some genius stowed away? Why not let him write Skywire. 'Not saying it makes sense.
He's your boss. He's not your 
I know, I know.
If you can't deal with him on that basis, you better get a new counselor.
Isn't that  extreme?
What's extreme is what that ER doctor said when he pumped your stomach. Eat another sesame seed and that's it.
I mean, if one little comment from Gary is gonna upset you this much 
You're right. It's  a working relationship. Don't know what I was expecting.
What!
Teddy was killed last night.
What're you  what?
It was a hate crime.
Are you saying you think they had something to do with his death? Nelson said it was an airtight case.
I don't know what I'm saying. Maybe  maybe they hired those guys.
I can't see Outpost putting its reputation in the hands of people like that.
I don't know! I just know it was Teddy's code. All these ideas flying in from everywhere. You know how he says "Any kid working in his garage can put us out of business?" It's like they know what every kid's doing.
They hack into people's programs?
Nobody does work like this online. It's in your PC, or in a mainframe. Selfcontained. They'd have to be, like, watching people. Physically. Oh Jesus.
It isn't a broadcast studio. It's  a surveillance post or something. That's why they have the dishes on top.
You're scaring me. I think we should just go.
Go where? You can't get away from people like this.
"Like this?" It's Gary you're talking about.
You think I don't know that?
Milo. Why would he 
How should I know? "Solving a problem," I guess. Or needing to control everything. I don't know. I've gotta get in there.
Even if all this were true. There're 20 other buildings. All of them filled with computers and 
It's the only one with dishes on the roof. The studio's a front. That's why they keep postponing its opening. ...gotta get in there.
Milo, you told me those DOJ Agents are all over the place. How could they hope to hide a surveillance post? And how can you get in there, anyway? With the cameras and the swipe cards 
I can't just walk away!
You can't just walk in, either.
They stop the construction work at six or seven. The parking lot's mostly clear by two or three in the morning. Even the early Geeks don't get there before five.
Is it two? Or is it three? Have you ever really noticed?
I know how to get in there. But you've gotta help me.
...Whaddo I do?
So you believe me?
It's almost nine, I've been so worried! What did you see in there?
Nothing.
Nothing?
It's what they said it is. An unfinished broadcast studio. You were right... I just drove to Seattle and back.
...Why?
Remember Lyle Barton?
The Justice Department guy who came to the apartment when 
I remember.
After I broke into 21  which was insane, thank God they didn't catch me!  I just drove around. Trying to figure out what possessed me. You know what? I've been putting my own guilt on Gary.
Guilt?
If I'd stayed down there, maybe this wouldn't've happened.
Poor baby. You know that's not true.
That was  different.
...Different?
Where were you? You know you can't keep anything from me.
Okay, yeah. I did something naughty... There's this amazing Comix store in Seattle. To tell you the truth, I did it once or twice at Stanford. 'Guess I can't keep anything from you...
Look at this.
What?
Why doesn't he ask us to his party. He's never even met you.
He has thousands of employees, Milo 
It's for the Museum. He knows you're a painter. If anybody should be invited 
Milo 
I know you think I'm too attached to him, but still. I am close to Gary. And you're the most meaningful person in my life. I'm going back to the Comix place, why should I be killing myself.
Milo, you 
Are you gonna tell me where you went?
I went to see the Skywire model in Gary's office. You know. Just to hold it again.
No. No. I sent an Email to somebody, just now. To tell her how I feel about you. You know I'm clueless, without you. You know I 
Just shut up?
Great!
Look at me! I'm gonna change.
You look beautiful.
Yeah? Give me a goodbye kiss.
...What?
I know you. You're gonna run back to work right after dinner. I want my kiss now.
Milo?
Don't we have any chopsticks?
Oh, right. Hold on.
Here we go.
Great.
...wanna savor this.
It's gonna get cold.
Right. Wait. A toast.
You're just afraid to eat it.
Is it over?
They still have to give 'em refreshments laced with mindaltering drugs.
You are a fanatic.
'Gonna wait outside.
Alice? You gotta make him do the startup with Teddy and me.
"Make" him?
You know what I mean.
I'm just screwed.
You know what he's like. He just wants to work on stuff that's cool.
You don't wanna move, do you?
I can paint anywhere.
I can't help it. I feel like they'd do anything to keep their 
Anything? That's not even credible. If he wants to go up there? To check it out? I think you should encourage him. It's his life. But everybody's treating him like this  valuable object. You're hurting your own case.
You think so?
You'll look like you consciously worked for the look.
Good point. Excuse me, gentlemen.
How can he lie like that? How can he pull that shit?
What shit? Now where do we have reservations at? I mean I'm not really hungry, but I would like to have reservations somewhere.
I don't believe it. He looks so...normal. He seems so... out of it. So...undangerous.
I just don't see how someone, anyone, can appear that way and yet be involved in such total shit. How can you be so fucking, I don't know, cool about it?
Some guys are just born cool, I guess.
Hello, Halberstam. Nice tie. How the hell are you?
I've been great. And you?
How's the Ransom account going, Marcus?
It's...it's...all right.
Really? That's interesting. Not great?
Oh well, you know.
And how's Cecilia? She's a great girl.
Oh yes. I'm very lucky.
Listen, the mud soup and the charcoal arugula are outrageous here.
Yeah, well, you're late.
Hey, I'm a child of divorce. Give me a break Hmmm, I see they've omitted the pork loin with lime jello.
We should've gone to Dorsia. I could've gotten us a table.
Nobody goes there anymore.
So, wasn't Rothschild originally handling the Fisher account? How did you get it?
I could tell you that, Halberstam, but then I'd have to kill you.
And Cecelia, how is she? Where is she tonight?
Cecelia is, well...you know
Evelyn. Great ass. Goes out with that loser Patrick Bateman. What a dork.
Another Martini, Paul?
Paul, give me your Amex card. Good boy. Bateman slaps the card down, looks at the check.
Twohundredandfifty. Very reasonable. Let's leave a big tip, shall we? My place hr a nightcap?
No, man. I'm gonna bail.
Come on, you dumb son of a bitch. I've got a preview of the Barneys catalogue and a bottle of Absolut waiting for us.
You like Huey Lewis and the News?
They're okay. BATEMAN Their early work was a little too New Wave for my taste. But then Sports came out in 1983, I think they really came into their own, commercially and artistically.
Hey, Halberstam?
Yes, Owen?
Why are there copies of the Style section all over the place? Do you have a dog? A chow or something?
No, Owen.
Is that a raincoat?
Yes, it is.
I'm so hungry.
It's cold out, too, isn't it?
I'm so hungry.
Why don't you get a job? If you're so hungry, why don't you get a job?
I lost my job...
Why? Were you drinking? Is that why you lost it? Insider trading? Just joking. No, reallywere you drinking on the job?
Gee, uh, that's too bad.
I'm so hungry.
Why don't you get another one? Why don't , you get another job?
I'm not...
You're not what? Qualified for anything else?
I'm hungry
I know that, I know that. Jeez, you're like a broken record. I'm trying to help you.
I'm hungry.
Listen, do you think it's fair to take money from people who do have jobs? From people who do work?
What am I gonna do?
Listen, what's your name?
Al.
Speak up. Come on.
Al.
Get a goddamn job, Al. You've got a negative attitude. That's what's stopping you. You've got to get your act together. I'll help you.
You re so kind, mister. You're kind. You're a kind man. I can tell.
Shhhh...it's okay.
Please...I don know what to do. I'm so cold.
Do ,you know how bad you smell? The stench, my God.
I can't...I can't find a shelter
You reek. You reek of...shit. Do you know that? Goddammit, Allook at me and stop crying like some kind of faggot. Al...I'm sorry.
Listen, John, I've got to go. T Boone Pickens just walked in... Just joking... No don't tip the owner of the salon. Okay, John, right, got it. Sorry about that.
No, I'm sorry. I should've made an appointment. Was that anything important?
Oh that? Just mulling over business problems. Examining opportunities...Exchanging rumors... Spreading gossip.
Hi. I'm Donald KIMBALL
Hi. Pat Bateman. Nice to meet you.
I'm sorry to barge in on you like this. but I was supposed to talk to Luis Carruthers and he wasn't in and...well, you're here, so...I know how busy you guys can get.
So, what's the topic of discussion?
I've been hired by Meredith Powell to investigate the disappearance of Paul Owen.
You're not with the FBI or anything, are you?
Nothing like that. I'm just a private investigator.
Ah, I see...Yes. Paul's disappearance...Yes.
So it's nothing that official. I just have some basic questions. About Paul Owen. About yourself
Coffee?
No. I'm okay.
Perrier? San Pellegrino?
No, I'm okay.
KIMBALL.
Mr. Kimball a bottle of San Pelle
Oh no, I'm okay.
It's no problem
Well, what's the topic of discussion?
The disappearance of Paul Owen.
Oh right. Well, I haven't heard anything about the disappearance or anything... Not on "Page Six" at least.
I think his family wants this kept quiet.
Understandable. Lime?
No, really. I'm okay.
You sure? I can always get you a lime.
Just some preliminary questions that I need for my own files, okay?
Shoot.
How old are you?
Twentysix. I'll be twentyseven in October.
Where did you go to school?
Harvard. The Harvard Business School.
Your address?
Fiftyfive West EightyFirst Street. The American Gardens Building.
Nice. Very nice.
Thanks.
Pardon me, but are you okay?
Who do you ask?
You seem...nervous.
Bad habit.
I know. I'm sorry.
Would you rather I not smoke?
No, I guess it's okay.
You sure?
No problem.
What can you tell me about Paul Owen?
Well...
How well did you know him?
I'm...at a loss. He was part of that whole...Yale thing, you know.
Yale thing?
Yeah...Yale thing.
What do you mean...Yale thing?
So...there's nothing you can tell me about Paul Owen?
He led what I suppose was an orderly life. He... ate a balanced diet.
What kind of man was he? Besides... the information you've just given.
I hope I'm not being crossexamined here.
Do you feel that way?
No. Not really.
Where did Paul hang out?
Hang...out?
Yeah. You know...hang out.
Let me think. The Newport. Harry's. Fluties. Endochine. Nell's. Comell Club. The New York Yacht Club. The regular places.
He had a yacht?
No, he just hung out there.
And where did he go to school?
Don't you know this?
I just wanted to know if you know. BATEMAN Before Yale? If I remember correctly, Saint Paul's... Listen, I just...I just want to help.
Anything else you can tell me about Owen?
We were both seven in 1969.
So was I.
Do you have any witnesses or fingerprints?
Well, there's a message on his answering machine saying he went to London.
Well, maybe he did, huh?
His girlfriend doesn't think so.
But...has anyone seen him in London?
Actually, yes.
Hmmm.
Well, I've had a hard time getting an actual verification. A Stephen Hughes says he saw him at a restaurant there, but I checked it out and what happened is, he mistook a Hubert Ainsworth for Paul, so...
Oh.
Was he involved at all , do you think, in occultism or Satan worship?
What?
I know it sounds like a lame question, but in New Jersey I know this sounds like a lame question, but last monthI don't know if you've heard about this, but a young stockbroker was recently arrested and charged with murdering a young Chicano girl and performing voodoo rituals with various body parts
Yikes! No. Paul wasn't into that. He followed a balanced diet and
Yeah, I know, and was into that whole Yale thing.
Have you consulted a psychic?
No.
Had his apartment been burglarized?
No, it actually hadn't. Toiletries were missing. A suit was gone. So was some luggage. That's it.
I mean no one's dealing with the homicide squad yet or anything, right?
No, not yet. As I said, we're not sure. But... basically no one has seen or heard anything.
That's so typical, isn't it?
It's just strange. One day someone's walking around, going to work, alive, and then...
Nothing.
People just...disappear.
The earth just opens up and swallows people.
Eerie. Really eerie.
You'll have to excuse me. I have a lunch meeting with Cliff Huxtable at Four Seasons in twenty minutes.
Isn't the Four Seasons a little far uptown? I mean aren't you going to be late?
Uh, no. There's one...down here.
Oh really? I didn't know that.
Listen, if anything occurs to you, any information at all...
Absolutely, I'm 100% with you.
Great, and thanks for your, uh, time, Mr. Bateman.
Detective Kendall...uh Campbell? KIMBALL Kimball. Call me Don.
Don.
So...you hang out here a lot?
Uh, yes...I mean...whenever necessary. You know.
How's the investigation going? Taken anyone in for "formal questioning?"
0h no. Informal conversations, mostly. What's that, Stoli?
Yeah. No Finlandia, as usual. Fucking dump.
Too true. You know, Batemanpeople tend to reveal so much more about themselves when they're in a relaxed setting, don't you think?
I mean they want to get caught.
Dan, great to see you again. Like I said, you need anything at all, I'm your man. I don't envy your job. I mean Owen was a...complex man.
I actually came to see Timothy Price, but he's taken a leave of absence.
Yeah, gone into rehab. Shame. Is he a suspect?
Not really.
Do you remember where you were on the night of Paul's disappearance? Which was on the twentieth of December?
God...I guess...I was probably returning videotapes.
I had a date with a girl named Veronica.
Wait. That's not what I've got.
What?
That's not the information I've received.
Well...I...Wait...What information have you received?
Let's see... That you were with
Well, I could he wrong.
Well...When was the last time you were with Paul Owen?
We had...gone to a new musical called...Oh Africa, Brave Africa. It was...a laugh riot...and that's about it. I think we had dinner at Orso's. No, Petaluma. No, Orso's. The...last time I physically saw him was...at an automated teller. I can't remember which...just one that was near, um, Nell's.
Well, thank you, Mr. Bateman.
Patrick, please. I hope I've been informative. Long daya bit scattered.
Listen, I'm a little spent for now but how about lunch in a week or so when I've sorted out all this information?
Great, yes, I'd like that.
And if you could try and pin down where you were the night of Owen's disappearance, it would make my job a lot easier.
Absolutely. I'm with you on that one.
Never. I mean...I don't really like... singers.
Not a big music fan, eh?
No, I like music. Justthey'reHuey's too... black sounding. For me.
Well, to each his own. Solunch, Thursday? I'll call your secretary about reservations.
I'll be there.
No hash browns?
Not in the mood, I guess.
But...everyone orders the hash browns here. I mean it'shave you been here before?
Yes, of course. The hash browns are delicious. I'm just...not... ordering them.
Suit yourself, I guess.
So, the night he disappeared? Any new thoughts on what you did?
I'm not really sure. I had a shower...and some sorbet?
I think maybe you've got your dates mixed up.
But how? Where do you place Paul that night?
According to his date book, and this was verified by his secretary, he had dinner with...Marcus Halberstam.
And?
I've questioned him.
Marcus?
Yes. And he denies it. Though at first he couldn't be sure.
But Marcus denied it?
Yes.
Well, does Marcus have an alibi?
Yes.
He does? You're sure?
I checked it out. It's clean.
Oh. KIMBALL Now where were you?
Where was Marcus?
He wasn't with Paul Owen.
So who was he with?
He was at Atlantis with Craig McDermott, Frederick Dibble, Harry Newman, George Butner and  you.
Oh, right. Of course...We had wanted Paul Owen to come. But he said he had plans...I guess I had dinner with Victoria...the following night.
Personally I think the guy went a little nutso. Split town for a while. Maybe he did go to London. Sightseeing. Drinking. Whatever. Anyway, I'm pretty sure he'll turn up sooner or later. I mean, to think that one of his friends killed him, for no reason whatsoever would be too ridiculous. Isn't that right, Patrick?
What do you mean, she was a hot number.
If you had an American Express card she'd give you a blowjob. Listen, this girl worked in a tanning salon, need I say more?...What do you do?
She's my...cousin.
Uh huh?
She's from...France.
Elizabeth, it's three in the morning.
He's a goddamn drug dealer! These are his peak hours.
Don't tell him you're here.
Why would I?
This tastes weird. Harley? It's me. I need your services. Translate that anyway you'd like. I'm at
You're at Paul Owen s.
Who?
Paul Owen.
I want the number, idiot. Anyway, I'm at Paul Norman's and I'll try you later and if I don't see you at Canal Bar tomorrow night I'm going to sic my hairdresser on you.
Did you know that guy who disappeared? Didn't he work at Pierce & Pierce, too? Was he a friend of yours?
No.
Do you have any coke? Or Halcyon? I'd take a Halcyon.
Listen, I would just like to see...the two of you...get it on. What's wrong with that? It's totally diseasefree.
Patrick, you re a lunatic.
Come on. Don't you find Christie attractive?
Let's not get lewd. I'm in no mood to have a lewd conversation.
Come on. I think it would be a turnon.
Does he do this all the time?
Are you telling me you've never gotten it on with a girl?
No! I'm not a lesbian. Why do you think I'd be into that?
Well, you went to Sarah Lawrence for one thing.
Those are Sarah Lawrence guys, Patrick. You're making me feel weird.
Did you know that Whitney Houston's debut LP called simply Whitney Houston had four numberone singles on it? Did you know that, Christie? Whitney's voice leaps across so many boundaries and is so versatilethough she's mainly a jazz singerthat it's hard to take in the album on a first listening.
You actually listen to Whitney Houston? You actually have a Whitney Houston CD? More than one?
Hi, Patrick. I thought that was you.
Hello
Well.
Isn't it ridiculous? Coming all the way up here, but you know. They really are the best.
Then why can't they get these stains out? I mean can you talk to these people or something? I'm not getting anywhere.
Well, I mean, um, it s really...Bosco. You know, like... like a Dove Bar. It's a Dove Bar...Hershey's Syrup?
Oh yeah. Oh I get it. Fun with chocolate.
Listen, if you could talk to them I would really appreciate it. I'm really late. I have a lunch appointment at Hubert's in fifteen minutes.
Hubert's? Oh really? It moved uptown, right?
Yeah, well, oh boy, listen, I've got to go. Thank you, uh... Victoria?
Maybe we could have lunch one day next week? You know, I'm downtown near Wall Street quite often.
Oh, I don't know, Victoria. I'm at work all the time.
Well, what about, oh, you know, maybe a Saturday?
Next Saturday?
Yeah.
Oh, can't, I'm afraid. Matine of Les Miserables. Listen, I've really got to go. I'llOh...Christ...I'll call you.
Okay. Do.
So, what do you do?
What do you think I do?
A model? An actor?
No. Flattering, but no.
Well...
I m into, well, murders and executions mostly.
Welt...it depends, why?
Well, most guys I know who work in mergers and acquisitions don't really like it.
Oh really? DAISY He said... He said you gave him bad vibes.
That's...that's too bad.
You think I'm dumb, don't you?
What?
You think I'm dumb. You think all models are dumb.
No. I really don't.
That's okay. I don't mind. There's something sweet about you.
Late?
Aerobics class. Sorry. Any messages?
Ricky Hendricks has to cancel today. He didn't say what he was canceling or why.
I occasionally box with Ricky at the Harvard Club. Anyone else?
And...Spencer wants to meet you for a drink at Fluties Pier 17.
When?
After six.
Negative. Cancel it.
Oh? And what should I say?
Just...say...no.
Just say no?
Okay, Jean. I need reservations for three at Camols at twelvethirty, and if not there, try Crayons. All right?
Yes, sir.
Oh, something. . romantic?
No, silly. Forget it. I'll make them. Thanks.
I'll do it.
No. No. Be a doll and just get me a Perrier, okay?
You look nice today.
Yes?
Is that the Ransom file? Thanks. Don't wear that outfit again.
Ummm...what? I didn't hear you.
I said "Do not wear that outfit again." Wear a dress. A skirt or something.
You don't like this, I take it?
Come on, you're prettier than that.
Thanks, Patrick.
What is it?
Patrick?
Yees, Jean?
Patrick, a Mr. Donald KIMBALL is here to see you.
Who?
Detective Donald KIMBALL?
Tell him I'm at lunch.
Patrick, I think he knows you're here. It's only tenthirty.
Patrick?
Can you bring Mr...
Yes, Patrick?
Bring us an ashtray for Mr. KIMBALL, please. She whisks in with a crystal ashtray as they sit in silence.
Jean?
Yes, Patrick?
Would you like to accompany me to dinner?
That is...if you're not doing anything.
Oh no. I have no plans.
Well, isn't this a coincidence.
Anywhere you want?
Let's not think about what I want. How about anywhere you want.
Oh Patrick, I can't make this decision.
No, come on. Anywhere you want.
Oh, I can't. I don't know.
Come on. Where do you want to go? Anywhere you want. Just say it. I can get us in anywhere.
Soooo...Dorsia is where Jean wants to go...
Oh, I don't know. No, we'll go anywhere you want.
Dorsia is...fine.
Yes? You're dressed...okay.
You didn't give them a name.
They know me.
Jean? Sorbet?
Thanks, Patrick. I'd love some.
Want a bite?
I'm on a diet. But thank you.
You don't need to lose any weight. You're kidding, right? You look great. Very fit.
You can always he thinner. Look...better.
Well, maybe we shouldn't go out to dinner. I don't want to ruin your willpower.
No. It's all right. I'm not very good at controlling it anyway.
And don't tell me you enjoy working with children, okay?
Well, I'd like to travel. And maybe go back to school, but I really don't know...I'm at a point in my life where there seems lo be a lot of possibilities, but I'm so... I don't know...unsure.
Do you have a boyfriend?
No, not really.
Interesting.
Are you seeing anyone? I mean, seriously?
Maybe. I don't know Not really. Bateman opens up a cupboard where there are a lot of very Bateman opens a cupboard where there are a lot of neatly ordered weapons  an ax, a rifle, a chain saw, duct tape, twine and a nail gun.
Jean, do you feel...fulfilled? I mean, in your life?
Well, I guess I do. For a long time I was too focused on my work, I think, but now I've really begun to think about changing myself, you know, developing, and...growing.
Growing. I'm glad you said that.
Did you know that Ted Bundy's first dog, a collie, was named Lassie? Had you heard this?
Who's Ted Bundy?
Forget it.
What's that?
Oh. Uh, tape. Duct tape. I...need it for... taping something. Bateman goes back to the cupboard for the nail gun.
Patrick, have you ever wanted to make someone happy?
What...No! Put it in the carton.
Sorry.
Jean? What?
Make someone happyhave you ever wanted to?
I'm looking for...I guess you could say I just want to have a meaningful relationship with someone special.
Hmmmm.
Yes. I don t think I can...control myself.
I know I should go. I know I have a tendency to get involved with unavailable men, and...I mean, do you want me to go?
If you stay, I think something bad will happen. I think I might hurt you. You don't want to get hurt, do you?
No. No, I guess not. I don't want to get bruised. You're right, I should go.
And don't forget you have a breakfast meeting with Frederick Bennet and Charles Rust at '21.
Thanks. It slipped my mind completely.
Patrick Bateman's office.
Jean? Hello? Jean?
Patrick? Is that you?
Hello? Jean, I need help!
Where are you?
JeanI'm not
Craig McDermott called. He wants to meet you and David Van Patten and Tim Price at Harry's for drinks.
Oh God, what did you say, you dumb bitch?
Patrick? I can't hear you.
What are I doing?
Where are you? Patrick, what's wrong?
I don't think I'm gonna make it, Jean.
...to the office this afternoon.
Why?
Just...say...no!
What is it, Patrick? Are you alright?
Stop sounding so Fucking sad! Jesus!
Dorsia.
Umm...yes...I know it's a little late but is it possible to reserve a table for two at eight or eightthirty perhaps?
Marcus Halberstam. For two at eight?
Your friend has already been seated. Follow me, Mr. Halberstam.
Dorsia, yes?
Yes, can you take two tonight, oh, let's say at nine o'clock?
We are totally booked.
Oh really? That's great.
I said we are totally booked.
Two at nine? Perfect.
There are no tables available tonight. The waiting list is also totally booked.
See you then.
Van Patten looks puffy. Has he stopped working out?
It looks that way, doesn't it?
That's Paul Owen.
That's not Paul Owen. Paul Owen's on the other side of the room. Over there.
There's this theory out now that if you can catch the AIDS virus through having sex with someone who is infected, then you can also catch anythingAlzheimer's, muscular dystrophy, hemophilia, leukemia, diabetes, dyslexia, for Christ's sakeyou can get dyslexia from pussy
I'm not sure, guy, but I don't think dyslexia is a virus.
Oh, who knows? They don't know that. Prove it.
Jeez. That's not a helluva lot, is it?
Maybe it's just the light.
Is he fucking selling it by the milligram? Oh my God...
What?
It's a fucking milligram of Sweet'n Low!
It's definitely weak but I have a feeling if we do enough of it we'll be okay.
I want to get high off this; Bateman, not sprinkle it on my fucking AllBran.
SHUT UP!
Calm down. Let's do it anyway
I guess you're right... THAT IS, IF THE FAGGOT IN THE NEXT STALL THINKS IT'S OKAY!
Oh come on. Price. There are a lot more important problems than Sri Lanka to worry about. Sure our foreign policy is important, but there are more pressing problems at hand.
Like what?
Well, we have to end apartheid for one. And slow down the nuclear arms race, stop terrorism and world hunger. But we can't ignore our social needs. either We have to stop people from abusing the welfare system. We have to provide food and shelter for the homeless and oppose racial discrimination and promote civil rights while also promoting equal rights for women but change the abortion laws to protect the right to life yet still somehow maintain women's freedom of choice.
What's that, a gram?
New card. What do you think?
I can't believe that Price prefers McDermott's card to mine.
But wait. You ain't seen nothin' yet.
Raised lettering, pale nimbus white...
Impressive. Very nice. Let's see Paul Owen's card.
Yes, Caron's right. Gorbachev's not downstairs. He's at Tunnel.
Ask me a question.
I'm leaving. I'm getting out.
Leaving what?
This.
Don't, I'll drink it.
Listen to me, Patrick. I'm leaving.
Where to? Are you going to go get a gram?
I'm leaving! I...am...leaving!
Don't tell me...merchant banking?
No, you dumb son of a bitch. I'm serious. I'm disappearing.
Where to? Morgan Stanley? Rehab? What?
And Bateman, what are YOU SO fucking zany about?
I'm just a happy camper. Rockin' and arollin'. VAN PATTEN Rehab's done wonders for you, pal. Working for UNICEF now?
Patrick, thanks so much for looking after Courtney. Dorsia, how impressive! How on earth did you get a reservation there?
Lucky, I guess.
That's a wonderful jacket. Let me guess, Valentino Couture?
Uh huh.
It looks so soft.
Your compliment was sufficient Luis.
Patrick? Is that you?
No, Luis. It's not me. You're mistaken.
This is Gwendolyn Ichiban. This is my very good friend Patrick Bateman. Where are you going? We're going to Nell's. Gwendolyn's father's buying it. Where did you get your overnight bag?
Commes des Garcon.
Call me please, Patrick.
Jesus lives, Luis.
What...is...it?
Where are you going?
I've gotta...I've gotta...return some videotapes.
Patrick?
What? CARRUTHERS I'll call you.
Excuse me, gentlemen. Right back. He approaches Carnes cautiously.
Face itthe Japanese will own most of this country by the end of the '90s.
Jesus, Davis. Yes. That was hilarious. That was you, wasn't it?
Yes, naturally.
Bateman killing Owen and the escort girls? Oh that s fabulous. That's rich...
It was a pretty long message, wasn't it?
What exactly do you mean?
The message you left.
By the way Davis, how is Cynthia? You're still seeing her, right?
But wait, Harold, what do you mean?
Carnes? Wait.
Davis. I'm not one to badmouth anyone, your joke was amusing. But come on, man, you had one fatal flaw: Bateman's such a dork, such a boring, spineless lightweight, that I couldn't fully appreciate it. I wasn't fooled for a second. Now, if you'd said Price, or McDermott...Otherwise, it was amusing. Now, let's have lunch or dinner or something. Hilarious, Davis. A killer.
What are you talking about? Bateman is what?
Oh Christ. He can barely pick up an escort girl, let alone...what was it you said he did to her?
Now, if you'll excuse me, I really must...
Wait. Stop. You don't seem to understand. You're not really comprehending any of this. I killed him. I did it, Carnes. I'm Patrick Bateman. I chopped Owen's fucking head off. I tortured dozens of girls. The whole message I left on your machine was true.
Excuse me. I really must he going.
No! Listen, don't you know who I am? I'm not Davis, I'm Patrick Bateman! I talk to you on the phone all the time! Don't you recognize me? You're my lawyer.
Now, Carnes, listen to me. Listen very, very carefully. I killed Paul Owen and I liked it. I can't make myself any clearer
But that's simply not possible. And I don't find this funny anymore.
It never was supposed to he! Why isn't it possible?
It's just not.
Why not, you stupid bastard?
Because I had dinner with Paul Owen twice in London...just ten days ago.
No, you...didn't?
Now, if you'll excuse me.
Are you my two o'clock?
No.
Can I help you?
I'm looking for...Paul Owen's...place.
Doesn't he live here?
No, he doesn't.
Are you sure?
You saw the ad in the Times?
No. Yes. I mean yes, I did. In the Times. But... doesn't Paul Owen still live here?
There was no ad in the Times.
I think you should go now.
But I think...I want to know what happened here.
Don't make any trouble. Please. I suggest you go.
Don't come back.
I won't...don't worry.
You'll notice that my friends and I all look and behave in a remarkably similar fashion, but there are subtle differences between us. McDermott is the biggest asshole. Van Patten is the yes man. Price is the most wired. I'm the best looking. We all have light tans. Right now I'm in a bad mood because this is not a good table, and Van Patten keeps asking dumb, obvious questions about how to dress .
What are the rules for a sweater vest?
Picked them up from the printers yesterday
Good coloring.
That's bone. And the lettering is something called Silian Rail.
Eggshell with Romalian type. What do you think?
Nice.
But Laurie Kennedy is a total hardbody. What do you think, Bateman?
I know her. I knew her.
Because he dated her.
How did you guess?
Girls dig Bateman. He's CQ. You're total CQ, Bateman.
Thanks, guy, but...she's got a lousy personality.
Do you know what Ed Gein said about women?
Ed Gein? Maitre d' at Canal Bar?
No, serial killer, Wisconsin in the fifties. He was an interesting guy.
Listen, what about dinner?
Is that all you ever have to contribute, Van Patten? "What about fucking dinner?"
Marzipan. Pink tents. Hundreds, thousands of roses. Photographers. Annie Leibovitz. We'll get Annie Leibovitz. And we'll hire someone to videotape. Patrick, we should do it.
Do...what.
Get married. Have a wedding.
Evelyn?
Yes, darling?
Is your Evian spiked?
We should do it.
NoI can't take the time off work.
Your father practically owns the company. You can do anything you like, silly.
I don't want to talk about it.
Well, you hate that job anyway. Why don't you just quit? You don't have to work.
Because I...want...to...fit...in.
Pat, this is my cousin Vanden and her boyfriend Stash. He's an artist.
Hi. Pat Bateman.
Why don t you just go for Price?
Oh God, Patrick. Why Price? Price?
He's rich.
Everybody's rich.
He's goodlooking.
Everybody's goodlooking, Patrick.
He has a great body
Everybody has a great body now.
Are you using minoxidil?
No. I'm not. Why should I ?
Your hairline looks like it's receding.
It's not.
I want a firm commitment.
I think, Evelyn, that we've...lost touch.
Why? What's wrong?
My need to engage in homicidal behavior on a massive scale cannot be, um, corrected, but I have no other way to fulfill my needs.
We need to talk.
Talk about what, Patrick? What is there to talk about?
It's over, Evelyn. It's all over
Touchy, touchy. I'm sorry I brought the wedding up. Let's just avoid the issue, alright? Now, are we having coffee?
I'm fucking serious. It's fucking over. Us. This is no joke. I don't think we should see each other anymore.
But your friends are my friends. My friends are your friends. I don't think it would work. You have a little something on your upper lip.
I know that your friends are my friends. I've thought about that. You can have them.
You're really serious, aren't you?
Yes, I am.
But what about the past? Our past?
We never really shared one.
You're inhuman.
I'm...in touch with humanity. Evelyn, I'm sorry. You're just not terribly important to me.
No, no, no.
I know my behavior is...erratic sometimes.
If you really want to do something for me, you can stop making this scene right now.
Oh God, I can't believe this.
I'm leaving now. I've assessed the situation and I'm going.
Where are you going?
I'm just leaving.
But where?
I have to return some videotapes.
I haven't seen you around here.
You just haven't been looking.
Would you like to see my apartment?
Do you want to come to my apartment or not?
I'm not supposed to. But I can make an exception.
Do you take American Express?
You have a really nice place here...Paul. How much did you pay for it?
Actually, that's none of your business, Christie, hut I can assure you it certainly wasn't cheap.
I'm not so sure about this. I had to go to Emergency after last time...
Oh this won't be anything like last time, I promise.
I don't think so.
Nothing like last time, promise.
Alright.
So, you're looking great, how have you been?
Well, I actually might need a little surgery after last time.
Really?
My friend told me I should maybe even get a lawyer.
Oh, lawyers are so complicateddon't do that. Here.
This is nicer than your other apartment.
It's not that nice.
Listen, what are you doing tonight?
What? Oh, I'm...busy.
Listen, you're dating Luis, he's in Arizona. You're fucking me, and we haven't made plans. What could you possibly be up to tonight?
Stop it. I'm...
On a lot of lithium?
Waiting for Luis to call me. He said he'd call tonight. Oh don't be difficult, Patrick.
You should come have dinner with me. COURTNEY Butwhen?
Am I confused or were we talking about tonight?
Ummm . . yeah. Luis is calling me tonight. I need to be home for that.
Pumpkin?
Yes?
Pumpkin you're dating an asshole.
Uh huh.
Pumpkin you're dating the biggest dickweed in New York.
I know. Stop it.
Pumpkin, you're dating a tumbling, tumbling dickweed.
Patrick don't call me pumpkin anymore, okay? I have to go.
Courtney? Dinner?
I can't.
I'm thinking Dorsia.
Dorsia's nice.
Nice?
You like it there, don't you?
The question is do you like it, Courtney? And will you blow off a fucking phone call from your sad excuse for a boyfriend to eat there tonight.
Okay. Yeah. What time?
Eight?
Pick me up?
Sounds like I'll have to. Don't fall asleep, okay? Wear something fabulous. Dorsia, remember?
A facial at Elizabeth Arden, which was really relaxing, then to the Pottery Bam where I bought this silver muffin dish.
Is that Donald Trump's car?
Oh God, Patrick. Shut up.
You know, Courtney, you should take some more lithium. Or have a Diet Coke. Some caffeine might get you out of this slump.
I just want to have a child. Just...two... perfect...children...
J&B. Straight.
Champagne on the rocks. Ohcould I have that with a twist? She starts to sink back in her chair and Bateman leans over and pulls her back up.
Are we here?
Yes.
This is Dorsia?
Yes, dear.
Courtney, you're going to have the peanut butter soup with smoked duck and mashed squash. New York magazine called it a 'playful but mysterious little dish." You'll love it. And then...the red snapper with violets and pine nuts. I think that'll follow nicely.
Mmmm...thanks, Patrick.
Luis is a despicable twit.
Yes, Luis is a despicable twit. I hate him.
No, you idiot. I said "Is it a receptacle tip?" Not, is Luis a despicable twit. Is it a receptacle tip? Get off me.
Is it a what?
Pull out.
I'm ignoring you.
Pull out, goddamnit!
What do you want, Courtney?
It's a plain end. I think.
Turn the light on.
Oh Jesus. I'm going home.
Patrick. Turn on the Light. He turns on the light.
It's a plain end, see? So?
Take it off.
Why?
Because you have to leave half an inch at the tip to catch the force of the ejaculate! BATEMAN I'm getting out of here. Where's your lithium?
Oh Christ, this really isn't worth it. And see, Courtney, it's there for what? Huh? Tell us. Why is it pulled down half an inch? So it can catch the force of the ejaculate!
Well, it's not a turnon for me. I have a promotion coming to me. I don't want to get AIDS.
See? Happy? You dumb bitch? Are you happy, you dumb bitch?
Oh God, just get it over with.
Will you call me before Thanksgiving?
Maybe.
What are you doing tonight?
Dinner at the River Cafe. Au Bar afterwards, maybe.
That's nice.
You and...Luis?
We were supposed to have dinner at Tad and Maura's, butyou know how Luis is...
I never knew you smoked.
You never noticed.
Listen...Patrick. Can we talk?
You look marvelous. There's nothing to say. You're going to marry Luis. Next week, no Less.
Isn't that special? Patrick?
Yes, Courtney?
Patrick?
Yes?
Nothing.
Look at this, Pinkerton! They got the payroll, and this damage will set construction back two months at least.
Not to mention my men who lost their lives.
You wouldn't have done that?
Oh no, I would have done that. But I would have made sure I killed them, too.
I want them arrested and hanged!
Would a jury around here convict their own? I think not. We're beginning an interesting game here, Mr. Rains.
This is no game.
I'm afraid our adversaries don't agree.
"A Rock Island and Pacific Railroad depot was robbed two nights ago just outside St. Louis, Missouri. The brave and daring JamesYounger Gang was heavily outnumbered by Pinkerton detectives, but the city lawmen were no match for the guns of the West."
It is a nice piece of writing.
"The gang made off with thirtyfive thousand dollars and also destroyed the Thaxton Switch construction, meaning that for a few months honest farmers will be able to sleep without fearing the railroad is coming to steal their land!" Who wrote this!? I'll see him hanged every Tuesday for a month!
Oh, that's the best part.
It's early in the game yet, Mr. Rains. Jesse James and I are just learning how each other moves, feeling out each other's patterns.
I'm losing millions of dollars and months of time while you play chess with these farmers!
Hardly farmers. I've done some checking. All these were in the War. These men know sabotage, tactics, and have four years of bloody fighting experience behind them. They are disciplined, welltrained and have a charismatic leader. If I were to design the perfect outlaw band, this gang is what I would create.
So you can't tell me anything?
It's going to be a long winter.
Pinkerton. It's been eight months. I see robberies. I see hold ups. But I do not see men on the end of nooses.
All of the James Gang's encounters have been with local law enforcement who, quite frankly, are no match for this group's cunning.
First of all: you, shut up. Now, you've given me a thousand miles of railroad to cover. Every time the James Gang strikes, we shift a hundred detectives to that area. But there's just too much open land, too many riverbeds to ride, caves to hide in. This gang operates across four states, often riding a hundred miles between jobs.
I can't believe this.
And there are some towns in Missouri where James and his men can walk openly, as heroes.
Yes, that's the way to win the locals back to our side.
I demand action.
No, you demand results. They are not the same thing. And if you want results, you will let me do my job as I see fit. Unless of course, You want this fool to saddle up and take another run at it?
Can't you tell me anything?
It's going to be a long spring.
So he's won.
No.
Every three months, the James Gang circles back to the vicinity of Liberty, Missouri. They always pull a job right before they return, probably to have extra money to give family and friends.
In English, Pinkerton.
There are only four banks within that travel radius which they have not robbed.
Can you put men at all four?
No need. I have another tool at my disposal which will narrow it down to one bank.
What is that?
Why, their intense hatred of you, of course.
What the hell is that sound?
Vengeance.
Mr. Thaddeus Rains, sir, it is a pleasure to have you join us in the field.
And it is my pleasure to be here.
Really!
NO! It is NOT my pleasure to have to leave my board room to come to this godforsaken piece of dirt to discover why in the name of all that is holy you cannot seem to evict a few simple farmers from their PATHETIC LITTLE MUDHOLES so that I may build the GREATEST railroad that this country has ever seen!
I can completely understand your distress, sir.
Parker, tell me what's going on so I can return as quickly as possible to Boston and my whores and cigars, not necessarily in that order.
Two weeks ago, we managed to arrange to have the Army hang one of the local farmers.
Good.
Unfortunately not, sir. A gang of local thugs managed to rescue him from the gallows. Not only has this inspired resistance from the other farmers, the redoubtable Mr. Alan Pinkerton was seriously injured during the incident.
Leaving you in charge of operations until he recovers.
Yes sir.
Just perfect.
A further impediment is that the Army garrison has been ordered to move on from Liberty. We will no longer have that particular stick with which to threaten the farmers.
You see the Army leaving and you see the loss of a tool. I see a power void to be filled. As we have the most power, we may move with impunity.
I see. I'll get together four patrols of our detectives for action tonight.
I'll teach these podunks what happens when they challenge the righteousness of progress.
They exchanged fire with the Pinkerton Guards, killing several of them. Then they raided the payroll office and blew the tracks for half a mile.
How much did they get from the safe?
Thirtyfive thousand, sir. Coins and currency. And the delay from the miles of destroyed track 
I'll kill them for blowing up my railway!
To be precise, they didn't blow up the tracks.
THEN WHO DID?!
We did.
Your men knew the risks.
What is going on here, man?
With my money!
We should go burn that school to the ground, sir!
The final route for the railroad is complete.
I look forward to seeing it.
Parker.
Sir?
What is that?
What, sir?
That.
Oh, that. I'll let Jenkins explain.
This is him.
I remember you.
How did you know?
Not such a menace now, is he, Pinkerton?
Well, this land is about to be condemned.
I'm doing you folks a favor 
Relax, Alan. The Army has this all in hand. And Mr. Thaddeus Rains will be very pleased with this news. Nothing like a hanging to motivate the populace to relocate.
It's not my job to relax. I've put men facing out both ways down Main Street, so nobody can ride in shooting. I've got a sharpshooter up on the water tower just in case.
My professional opinion is that you have managed to piss off the wrong bunch of farm boys this time.
They had to be dealt with!
By burning down their homes?
How can that be?
They donate money to farmers, to churches. Rumor has it they gave the sharecroppers of Maddox so much money they were able to build a school.
There's only four of them...
Move you fools!
Why, yeah.
I hope you don't mind, Jesse James told me your name.
Oh, you were talking to Jesse.
Yes, but just so I could find out who you were.
Really?
I hope I'm not being too forward.
Not at all.
I just though you were awful cute.
Thank you, Miss  ?
Lyla Devereux.
Gosh, that's a pretty name. Buy you a drink?
Could we go upstairs and talk? It's so loud down here.
Why don't we get a bottle of sherry to sip while we talk?
That is so gentlemanly of you.
Devereux. My brother Cole dated a European girl once.
Really?
Don't talk about it much, though.
And you're too young.
I'm the same age you were when you went off to war.
And the same age Web was. No.
I like that.
No.
You okay, Jesse?
Yeah. Hey, are you drinking whisky? You're too young to be drinking whisky.
Not too young to shoot a man, not to young to drink.
I guess so.
I was always jealous Web Mimms got to go off and fight with you and Cole. Now it's my turn.
Jim, you been with a girl yet?
Tonight? Why, I'm just getting ready to turn on the Younger charm.
Well, not exactly.
You been with a girl ever?
Hell yeah! I been with... Uh, not exactly. It's just, I don't want to get one of these paid ladies, you know?
I think so.
You and Frank and Cole, and even Bob, get all these girls because you're good looking and famous. You don't have to pay. They just look at me like I'm the baby brother. Don't tell anyone, okay Jesse?
I swear.
Tell you something else. I can't drink that good neither. I'm going to go outside and throw up.
You do that.
What about that Rock Island bastard?
It's his money. He's putting up the payroll out of his own fortune. You do want to hurt Thaddeus Rains, don't you Jesse?
... too young for whisky...
This time we'll make an exception.
Jesse, you explain to Lyla. My girl, you know, from that time...
You're gonna tell her when you're resting up in bed with her, Jimmy.
This is unusual. Most of our marriages are members of the congregation.
You don't think God'll mind, do you?
The Lord is remarkably tolerant of the charitable. "Jesse Woodson James." Jesse James? The Jesse James?
I could have lied I suppose, but I want this marriage to be legal. I just want you to know, I'm trying to start a new life here. I'm depending on your...
Discretion? Sir, I am a man of the cloth.
Thank you.
Who needs to repair a leaky church roof.
Now let's have a drink.
Right here in church?
Communion.
We're moving you tomorrow.
But I like the presidential suite.
Oh, it's a similar room. But the hotel is in Washington D.C. You're not going to get a fair trial down here, in front of a jury of Jesse James sympathizers.
So I'll get a fair trial in front of a jury bought off by Thaddeus Rains?
That's the idea.
Did you order our houses burned down?
Not that day. I am guilty of many things, but that was Mr. Thaddeus Rains and Parker, that day.
You almost ended my career before it began.
Pity.
How did you spot the ambush in Torrell?
Last February?
Mmm.
You had all those cattle there, so I'd think the extra men were in town from the cattle drive?
Yes?
The cows had a brand from a farm just five miles out of town.
Damn.
Almost got me in Billings. I saw you there, shooting at me.
I went myself to oversee the operation. Didn't help much.
No, that one was close. A couple fellas quit after that one.
Oh. That's nice to know. We're going to hang you, you know.
I figured.
Was it worth it?
Should have just killed Thaddeus Rains and been done with it.
That's what I would have done.
I'm not hanged yet.
You cocky little bastard.
Ahh, you'll miss me.
No, I'll hang you. But I may miss you just a bit.
That was for my Ma. Now this is for everybody else.
He's too important, James. They'll set the army on you. You and your wife.
The railroad has no business in Tennessee. Therefore I have no interest in the state of Tennessee.
Thanks.
I'd just as soon kill you, Jesse James. But chasing you takes up too much of my time.
Fair enough.
Zerelda? Little Zee Mimms?
You were little Jesse James when you left.
But you got big!
But still died.
If there's anything we can do for you, Dr. Mimms. We want to help.
Jesse, are you awake?
Mmmm.
Jesse, is that your hand?
Nuhhuh ...
You shouldn't be up.
I've been on my back two weeks. I'm sick of it.
You're sick of my company?
No! I mean, of course not. No.
Teasing you is completely unfair.
What you do to me is unfair. The teasing, I mean.
I shouldn't tease a hero.
What?
Everybody in the county knows it was you who rescued Cole. We're all so proud of you, Jesse. And not a single farm's been sold to the railroad since. You're everybody's hero.
I wasn't the only one risking my neck that day.
So you're saying I should leave you alone and go spend time with Jimmy Younger?
Unfair. You are completely unfair.
I used to come to this tree when I was a kid and imagine what my life would be like when I got older.
You didn't want to farm?
I was thinking more along the lines of being a river pirate.
A river pirate.
Arr. Hand over your jewels, Missy.
Thank God you grew out of that. You did grow out of that, didn't you?
Mostly. It would be an all right life, for a bachelor.
You planning on being a bachelor your whole life, Jesse James?
Not if I find the right girl.
And what's this right girl like?
Smart. Funny. Bossy. Always makes me think she's two steps ahead of me. And big buck teeth.
Where will you find such a girl?
Honestly, you'd do if only you had the buck teeth.
Ahem. "From this doctrine..." No, ah... "From women's eyes this doctrine I derive, they sparkle still like ... shiny... sparkling rocks..."
Sparkling rocks?
Little ones.
Is this one of Frank's Shakespeare poems you're trying to quote?
Yep.
Were you planning on kissing me when you finished quoting?
I've been planning on kissin' you for a very long time.
I am so sorry, Jesse.
Frank and me have to go away for a while.
You and I, we've started... something, you know? I don't know what'll happen if you do this.
Me neither.
Let the law 
Laws don't touch men like Thaddeus Rains. Only justice does.
Whose justice? Yours or God's? When will you stop?
When my name makes them cry in their sleep. When I've brought them to ashes.
Zee.
Jesse. What are you thinking? There are bounty hunters and lawmen all over this county!
I had to see you. I'm getting married.
I don't understand.
She's the most wonderful woman in the world. Can't get her out of my mind.
That's... wonderful. It's just... I thought...
She's beautiful. Smart. And has the biggest... buck teeth in all of Missouri.
I would never have imagined us in a place like this.
That's why I picked it. We can start a whole new life down here.
Are you going to be happy here, Mr. James? Without all that excitement?
I've got you. You keep me busy. I figure we'll get over to the hotel... get checked in, cleaned up... then I'd like to do something I've been thinking about for a long time.
Now wait a minute. There are certain things that have to wait until after the wedding.
Hmm.
"Hmm" what?
"But the life of the James Gang wasn't all robbing and shooting and killing, for these young Missouri bucks had a taste for the ladies... especially the handsome and charismatic Jesse James."
I beg your pardon?
"Blazing Guns of the West. True Stories of Jesse James." Only a dime in the hotel lobby.
Let me see that.
Oh, I'm not finished. "When he sauntered into a saloon, his spurs jangling and his pockets full of gold, the ladies flocked around him like flies to a candied apple." As I said. Hmm.
Now, sweetie, y'all wouldn't go believing one of them silly dime novels, would you?
Jesse, have you ever noticed that when you're trying to charm your way out of trouble, your accent gets all farm boy?
Aw, shucks, ma'am...
Stop it. This is just sad.
Swimming. Swimming is good.
Don't turn around.
What?
If you don't see it, it's not real...
You get arrested again, I'll kill you.
Yes ma'am.
I can't believe I had to blow up a train for you.
You are a hell of a woman.
Don't swear.
Yes ma'am.
Tennessee?
I'll explain on the way.
Did you kill Yankees?
A fair number, Ma.
Say your prayers?
Ma, I'm glad to see you being nice to our Injun friend.
He's a good Christian and he killed Yankees. Jesus told me that made him an all right boy.
Easterners.
We're just fine, thank you, sir.
The Lord says we can bury 'em out back in the orchard, nobody'll ever find them.
Somebody's in a vengeful smiting mood today.
Ma! Please!
Boys?
Riders 
We know, Ma. Now we got to get you to Doc Mimms.
Take care of each other, boys. You say your prayers.
Doc Mimms will 
Shush.
Y'know, Uncle Frank...
Yeah, Jimmy?
...every time you tell that story, you stop there. That's not how it ended. I was five when my dad got shot.
I know. But that's how it should have ended. Your Dad and Mom, riding off into a new life, growing old together, happy.
Allow a man his version of the past. When you get to be my age, you've got enough painful memories, you're allowed to soften a few of the edges up.
Sounds like he was a hell of a man.
That he was.
They're making him a hero now.
Saved a lot of folk from the railroad.
But he killed a lot of men, too.
Can't argue that.
So what was he?
I think... he was just a real interestin' fella to have around.
Uncle Frank?
Yeah Jimmy?
How much of that story is true?
Everything but the boring parts.
Every time I put my head up to hit that Gatling, they try to shoot it off.
So we got a plan?
Distracting enough for you?
Pff. They hardly even noticed you.
So you're saying I could have done more to attract their attention.
Mmhmm.
Such as?
You could have worn one of those big, floppy woman's Easter Sunday hats.
That would have made an impression.
I figure.
See, that's your problem, Frank. By the time you finish figuring out stuff, I'm already finished doing it.
No, Jesse, your problem is you're always doing stuff before I'm finished figuring it out.
Web's dead.
I reckoned.
Hell of a war.
I'm sure it seemed like a good idea at the time.
Hello, Liberty Missoura!
All this time in the saddle... We get to the farm, I'm going to shoot this damn horse just on principle.
Looks like Web Mimms wasn't the only casualty this town's got.
We better go to Doc's, see what's going on here.
Frank, don't you have something to say?
You're doing just fine.
Zee, we got to talk to you and your father.
Whyyyy... he took down the Gatling gun and the cannon all by himself.
Saved all our lives, Doc. None of the Liberty boys would have come home if not for Web Mimms, Doc. God's honest truth.
All we thought about was coming home. I swore I'd kill anybody who tried to get me off my farm again. If I have to go to war with the railroad to stay, fine by me.
Think about this. If we just come up with a story and stick to it, we should be all right.
What kind of story are they going to believe?
That just might work.
Maybe, maybe...
"Big and older"?
You can shut up now.
You are a charmer.
I swear I'll shoot you in your sleep.
Next time try "fat and haggard."
She's still talking to Jesus.
What worries me is that Jesus is talking back.
 if you stop saying things about my Zee.
Your Zee? Hmm. "From women's eyes this doctrine I derive: they sparkle still the right Promethean fire; They are the books, the arts, the academes, that show, contain, and nourish all the world."
You know him?
Heard of him.
I went up to the courthouse and looked at the right of way documents for the rail bed. The railroad doesn't even need our land, they're just taking the land on both sides for as far as they can.
Damn. All that reading paid off.
You ready to stop loafing around with this young lady and get back to farming?
What do you think?
Would you get in the carriage? Until Ma has you home so she can fuss over you herself, she's gonna make me miserable.
You're looking a bit more spry now that somebody 
Shut up. Uh, Doc, I was wondering if, uh, this evening, I could come by?
Pinkertons. It's the railroad.
Ma.
... We could move on. Rebuild. Make a decent life someplace else.
Don't care.
Didn't think you would. I'm going to go make the coffin.
Make a thousand of 'em. Still won't be enough by the time I'm through.
How'd it go in there?
Fine. How'd it go out here?
We're gonna have to talk...
And I planned getting you off the hangman's deck 
And that's why you both lead the gang. Two of you went into that bank together, right?
And it's guarded by Pinkerton detectives.
And I do so want to shoot some Pinkerton detectives.
I don't think it's counterfeit. Do you mind if I take a look at all your real bills to compare?
It's the scientific method. It's all the rage.
Gents, we are in the middle of something here.
Bob's upset.
The posters?
Pardon the delay, folks, but we had to get Mad Bob Younger under control!
Bob here'll kill a man for sneezing, and he's the best shot in the gang.
This has been a good year.
Jesse, we're outlaws.
And we're good at it.
It got to you, didn't it. All the killing in the war. You need it now.
You've killed your fair share of men.
If I could go back to farming 
That's a lie. You could've bought a dozen farms with the money we've stolen.
I can't quit and leave you alone. I can't quit until you quit. Ma would've wanted it that way.
We're doing this for Ma.
Maybe it started out that way. But now...
What do you want me to say, Frank? I was killing men when I was fifteen. I like getting shot at. I like riding out of town with a posse at my back. This is a helluva better life than farming.
A better life than the one you could have had with Zee?
We're drunk.
Oh yeah.
Just do me a favor. Think about what this is costing everybody. Not just the railroad.
You taking sides against me, now, Frank?
No, I 
They're all pinned down. Can't even get to the door.
Got any ideas, little brother?
Shoulda learned with Web. Made it look fun, made it look like an adventure. Got Web killed. Now Jim.
Jim was old enough...
He was a boy riding with the most famous outlaws in the West. How was he supposed to say no to that?
Railroad burned him out too. You couldn't have stopped him.
You're a pisspoor liar for the smartest man I know.
Yeah.
A war against the railroad. What the hell were we thinking?
I'm sure it seemed like a good idea at the time.
I'll meet you down there in a few weeks.
See you soon. Oh, and I appreciate the distraction back there.
Hell, they hardly even noticed us.
Daddy, don't start with this again.
Zerelda, it's no coincidence. The railroad men come through, offering to buy up land. Nobody sells. Then they start hanging men who own farms for treason?
He's going to be fine, right Daddy?
The bullet came out clean, but he lost a whole lot of blood. Praying wouldn't hurt.
They're gone. What are you 
I fooled them into thinking I was alone.
Well, I hope the boy pulls through. We should know in the morning.
I think he's already feeling better.
He thinks this is some kind of game!
I'm upset too, Zee, but Jesse and Cole know what they're doing. I'm sure they won't press their luck.
 rode right into them, screaming like a banshee.
My little Web did that?
Pff. He jumped his horse clear over our heads, killed a dozen Union soldiers before they knew what hit them.
Web died fighting?
Died a hero.
Boys...
Go home, Doc. They ain't gonna hang no more Liberty boys.
What do you say, sir?
Go on. You're pretty much all healed up.
You know you're welcome any time!
Yesss, but I was thinking, I could come by, and then take Zee out. Some place near. With other folk. Near. Here. But out.
It's fine by me, Jesse.
What the 
What is it?
Old Man Tucker is just standing quiet outside the bank.
So?
When have you ever known Old Man Tucker not to be yelling at everybody?
Where the hell were you?
I had you covered. From back there.
Shit.
I know it ain't no durned bank holiday!
You're right, sir.
Then why can't I go in there?
On account of we're robbing it.
Oh. Why didn't you just say so?
It's a secret.
Fine. I'll just wait here.
I'd appreciate that.
You 'um big lawman?
Yeah, Injun. What do you want?
Great Chief of St. Louis send me.
The District Marshall
Of St. Louis?
Hoyah. Him say tell Big Lawman in Carville that badman Jesse James riding toward Rising Sun, above Great River, near Eagle Rock.
East? East above the river heading for the Eagle Pass?
Hoyah!
Go ahead to the saloon. But don't get too drunk!
Me get heap firewater 
The safe. Now.
Of course! Uh, sir?
What?
Where is Jesse James?
This here is the Younger Gang!
OPEN THE DAMN SAFE!
All right, all right. Jesse James never yelled at folk...
Cannon or Gatling?
Both would be nice.
Soon as I hit one, the other'll know and beat us up.
What the 
Must be a garrison in town. We're in occupied territory, boys.
I think one of 'em's glass.
Which one, right or left?
The brown one.
Oh, Lord, the dance hall girl at Bunty's...
Sadie was not a man!
I have no idea what you just said, but it sounded real nice.
Shakespeare. He's European.
Ah.
BASTARDS! Come back here and face me!
Get buckets!
Hey! We decide something, that's it! We're in this for the long haul, and this idea of me and Jesse's will help give us more places to hide out without worrying about some farmer with a shotgun sneakin' up on us in our sleep. We've got to think 
Strategically.
 Exactly. Because this is a war.
Jesse.
Oh, you're in charge? We ain't partners any more, Jesse? You tell Cole Younger where and when to ride?
Cole, he didn't mean that.
Another dozen out back.
They gonna rush us?
They're just insurance in case we run.
Some Indian tracker you turned out to be, Tom.
You pay me to find you Bluecoats. There they are.
Wait'll we get back to Missouri, start telling those gals about how little Jesse James charged the whole Union Army by himself!
You ride like a Comanche.
Tom, why don't you stop at our spread before you head on out to the reservation? Figure we might have some work for you, if you want.
Hmm. Go back to the reservation and get drunk in a dirt shack, or work for you...
Well?
I'm thinking...
'Bout time you got here, buddy.
What's going on?
Ride with me, cousin?
I could use the walk.
Suit yourself. We'll have some horses waiting for you at the road. Let's ride, Rangers!
Where you boys going?
There's Yankees back there. Lot's of 'em.
Home, boys. Back to our farms.
Planting corn. Harvesting corn. Year after year.
Hands off your hip, Cole.
You're not scared, are you?
Pick your fights, cousin. You taught me that.
Not now.
What is wrong with you?
In case we have to kill these sonofabitches, I don't want them to see us coming.
You ever notice Zerelda's eyes?
She got two of them.
She had a moustache.
She was European!
All right, calm down. I'll agree Sadie was a woman 
Thanks for the help.
After all you did on our farm? You miss it, don't you Jesse?
The war? What, are you crazy? There are things I miss about it.
It was exciting.
But it was a whole lot of killing. Why should we miss that?
Because we were good at it? Hell, we were great at it. Jesse, don't tell anyone I said this, because everybody knows I'm the toughest man in this town, but you are one terrifying sonofabitch with those guns.
Yeah.
This isn't a feud, this is war. They've got more men than we do. We kill detectives, they can replace 'em in a day.
So what do we do, General Lee?
Just like in the war. Harass their supply lines. We kill the railroad's men, they won't care.
I'll pick the first job! I mean... I know a girl down at the bank. See if she can't get a list of towns where the railroad keeps its money.
Perfect, Cole.
Let's ride.
The JamesYounger Gang.
Sorry.
Don't let it happen again.
I got seven thousand.
I got three.
See, Frank's being smart about this.
Just because he reads all those books and knows all those big words doesn't make him smart.
It's not a bank.
It's better. It's a construction depot. They'll have the strongbox and some ammo and explosives for us to take. That way we can take on a bigger job.
"The Fidelity Bank and Trust was robbed on Tuesday by a gang of twenty heavily armed men."
Twenty?!
Jesse, we got to have a word.
Sure, cousin.
All the posters and newspapers are calling this bunch the "JamesYounger Gang."
Yep.
Why aren't we the "YoungerJames Gang"? I mean, there's three Younger brothers and only two James brothers here.
This is your fault for hogging all the publicity.
Hold on, hold on, we all know Bob is an important part of the gang.
It'll be the biggest score yet.
What will be?
Smells funny, it being mentioned in the paper.
If you'd read about it first, you'd have no problems.
What are you saying?
I've robbed just as many banks as you have! I know this town, and I know this bank, and I say it's an easy job.
You're forgetting who's in charge 
Beautiful.
Now the one time one of us comes up with an idea 
A bad idea.
I got us through the War all right.
And almost got hanged in peacetime.
That's it.
I'm the better soldier, Jesse.
And I'm the better outlaw.
Still smells fishy.
Then let me run the show, General Lee.
Fine. We hit this bank.
You'll be smiling once you've got all that money to spend, cousin. Cole Younger's going to make everybody rich!
Dammit!
A trap.
Okay, you're gonna rest here.
Clell, Tom, go get Doc Mimms in Liberty!
Bob, rip up some bandages.
Pass me some whisky.
We'll make them pay for this.
I'm out.
WHAT?! We follow you for a year, and now that our blood's been spilled, you're gonna quit?!
Who's next? You? Me? Bob?
Missed you, cousin.
Missed you too, cousin.
You know, you gettin' caught, right after leaving us, some people thought 
Pff. All we been through, the thought never crossed my mind.
Where'd you get all these riders?
We didn't. Zerelda did. Turns out your wife makes a hell of an outlaw.
What?
You, ya barrel of pork lard. Here piggy piggy!
What you sayin' boy?
I think I recognize you.
How?
I think I saw you leavin' by the front door just as I was coming in the back.
You shut up now, boy.
No, really. You're wife said she needed some help, seeing as you were so fat you couldn't find your 
Home. We go home. We ride like hell to get there, and we kill anything or anyone that comes between us and our homes. And when we get there we stay there and God help any fool who tries to get me to leave my farm again.
Best damn plan I heard all war.
How many of them did he kill?
Two.
You have no shame.
Not yet. But I'm hoping.
But if we take their money and supplies...
Exactly.
All right, settle down. All this money ain't ours.
Well, no, Jesse, it was the bank's. That's why we had to go to all that trouble of stealing it. You explain it to him.
We oughta take some of this, give it to our neighbors in Liberty. Lot of people hurting up there.
"The outlaws calling themselves the JamesYounger Gang shot their way out of town, wounding the Sherriff and three other townsfolk."
Hey!
"Bank officials estimate the loss at fifty thousand dollars."
Okay, folks, I think we know how this is going to go...
One false move and I'll blow your heads off!
Beg pardon?
You heard me, Jesse. You know how crazy I get!
This is about the "Wanted!" Posters, isn't it.
Yes. I am obviously not standing out in people's minds at the robberies.
The things a fella has to do to get a little respect around here...
You are a fine figure of a man.
Listen, Jesse, we've got a problem. It's Cole.
He's been full of vinegar lately.
He's planning a job.
What?
Listen, he's my brother and I don't want to start trouble...
Tell me.
My plan of lying here pissing myself seems to be working mighty fine, thank you.
I can hit those boys from here. We just need a distraction.
Yesterday.
Well, somebody better go tell THE DAMN YANKEES!
Corn gonna shoot at me?
Nope.
Then I love it.
Jesus mercy, that's Charlie Higgins, Dave Laller ...
... Will Perry ...
Cole, I want to get to the farm, make sure Little Jim and the girls are okay.
Stop by our spread after that, tell our Ma we're all right. We'll go to Doc Mimms.
They came up, made the same offer they made you folks. Our little brother Jim tried to chase 'em off, one of those detectives hit him in the head, knocked him out. Cole lost his temper.
Oh no...
He just lost his temper a little.
Damn!
They said because the detectives were working for the Department of the Interior 
The Army can hang him.
Tomorrow.
Gatling! They've got a Gatling!
Dammit, this stopped being fun about two years ago!
He's smiling.
Never a good thing.
Never thought that pissant town would look so pretty.
Anywhere nobody's shooting at me is pretty.
Your Ma wouldn't let us leave until we ate something.
That was two hours ago.
Here's Liberty's favorite son! I'll never forget what you did, cousin.
Zee, I'm pleased you came.
Our place, Clell Miller's, Sammy Johnston, the Creeders. Will Hite.
The sheriff says it was a gang of drunk Kansas boys.
I say we ride into town and kill us some Pinkertons and railroad men.
These are deeds and mortgages of farms the bank was holding for the railroad.
Better pass them over here before something happens to 'em.
Uhh, yeah it does.
You stay out of this, Bob.
No, Jimmy has a point. The YoungerJames Gang could be confusing.
How?
Say we bust into a bank. We yell "We're the YoungerJames Gang!" People are gonna be thinking, "The younger James Gang? Is there an older James Gang? How come we never heard of the older James gang?" So people are trying to figure that out instead of raising their arms.
We got a problem here, brother?
Frankly, yes. I'm feeling a little left out.
That's what the newspapers say. Weren't for Jesse James, this gang wouldn't be able to find a goat's ass with a stick.
What?
This is the best score yet.
It's still taking too long. The people used to snap to.
That was because of... the reputation the gang had.
As long as people think Jesse's still riding, we will never get the respect we deserve.
Cole, we're outlaws. Not exactly the most respectable job, if you know what I mean.
Leave me alone, Bob.
How'd they 
What have you done?
I ain't done 
WHAT HAVE YOU DONE?!
Bob. I didn't...
Swear.
I swear 
Swear on Jimmy's grave.
I'm sorry, Cole.
You're just upset about Jesse. We all are.
Things changed when you quit the gang. For example, I'm now the one who says "Let's ride."
He's not bad at it.
It's tougher than it looks.
You can ride like that?
I said like a Comanche, not this Comanche.
I think I may just go on to the reservation.
Tom, I'm this close to coming with you...
I couldn't lose him.
Jim Younger, I told you
This is healing?
Sometimes a wound will kill.
Now you tell us.
You're carrying too much money on you, Hank. You better turn some in tonight.
Okay, Matt.
How are you fixed?
I'm okay, Matt.
You've got enough?
That mug reminds me of a guy with his second dollar.
Yeah, what did he do with his first one?
Bought himself a pocketbook!
Everybody in?
I guess so.
Where's Charlie?
Charlie's upstairs as sore as a pup. He's out fourteen cents, and he can't find it.
Certainly, Mr. Jones! Certainly! Charlie!
They're starting to come in already. Yeah. Yeah. Well, listen. Don't waste any time. Get all the money you can lay your hands on, and bring it down here right away. Step on it.
You turned off the burglar alarm, you set the time clock, came back at twelve and emptied the boxes, didn't you?
wasn't anywhere near this place
Sit down! When the watchman surprised you, you shot him  what'd you do with the gun?
I didn't do it! I haven't got a gun!
You used to carry a gun, didn't you?
Then who changed it?
I don't know.
So you were home last night?
Yes.
What time did you get in?
Well, about  uh  eleven o'clock.
Eleven o'clock, eh? Are you sure it was that?
Yes.
But I wasn't here, Mr. Dickson. Honest I wasn't . . .
Then where were you?
Do you know this young man, Mrs. Halligan?
Sure I do. He has the best room in me house. The one with the fancy wallpaper.
for the rheumatism, you know.
What time was it, Mrs. Halligan?
It was late, I know. The Dooley sisters was already in. They work at a show, you know.
What time was it?
Huh?
What time did Matt Brown get in?
Now, let me see  a half hour after the Dooley sisters  and the Dooley sisters never get home until after
I don't care about the Dooley sisters  what time did he get in?
That's just what I'm trying to tell you, sir. It was a half hour after the Dooley sisters . . .
Was it twelve o'clock?
Yes, I guess it was one, 'cause...
It couldn't have been earlier?
No. It wasn't earlier because...
Yes, I know. Cause the Dooley sisters weren't in yet.
No  because me clock struck four, and when it strikes four, it's one.
There you are!
Listen here, young man  nobody ever called me a liar yet and got away with it
That's all, Mrs. Halligan. Thanks.
What did you find out, Mike?
I've been trailing the cashier like you told me. You're right about that guy, chief. There's something screwy somewhere.
Never mind all that. What did you find out?
He left here about an hour ago and went down to Dude Finlay's joint.
Dude Finlay?
Yes, sir.
Did you say Dude Finlay?
Yes, why?
He was in the bank yesterday.
He was here?
He came to see Mr. Cluett.
Are you sure?
Yes, sir.
Hello, Helen!
Matt, come here!
Why?
Come here, honey!
Hey, look out, somebody's likely to see us!
Oh, is that so?
What did you do with it?
With what?
The ten dollars.
Oh, ten dollars
Yes.
A friend of mine  yeah, really  his mother was terribly sick and she was dying, would you believe it?
No.
Oh, you think I'm lying?
Yes.
All right, I'm lying. Don't forget you called me a liar.
Oh, Matt.
Say, I just heard the merger isn't going thru. Isn't that grand?
Yeah, swell.
What happened? What did he say? Did you get the job?
Yeah.
What's the matter, Matt? Gee, I thought you'd be thrilled to death.
Come here. You know, a few minutes ago I was in Cluett's office and Mrs. Dickson was there.
Well . . . ?
Well, he was making love to her.
Oh Matt, you must be mistaken.
I tell you, I saw them!
In Cluett's office?
Yes, right in his office, the rat. I'd like to take a crack at that guy.
What's keeping you?
Oh, Charlie again.
Say Matt, you haven't done anything about what you saw today, have you?
Who? Cluett? No, not yet. But I'd like to take a crack at that stiff necked, horse dollar.[6]
Oh now, don't be silly.
Can you imagine that guy? He was kissing her.
Now you've got me worried, dear. Promise me you won't butt in.
Okay, honey  but just the same I'd like to take a crack at that
Shh . . . ! I'll wait for you upstairs.
All right, dear.
Oh, Matt . . .
Don't cry, honey. Everything's gonna be all right.
What's he doing, honey? Is he getting any help?
Something's happened. He isn't trying anymore.
They must have turned him down.
Yes. He called some of the biggest people in town.
Sure, they'd turn him down. He ought to know that. I'm going in there and talk to him.
Did you talk to him?
Yeah. I got an idea. Come on, let's get to a telephone.
Dickson's in a jam I tell you. The run's getting worse.
Mr. Williams . . .
The big guys have got the screws on him. You've got to come through for him, Mr. Conway. He came through for you a hundred times. If his friends don't help him, who is going to help him?
Matt, look! There's Mr. Jones!
Howdoyoudo, Mrs. Dickson.
Is that busy husband of mine busy?
He's at a board meeting.
Board meeting. Oh, that means hours, I suppose.
I'm afraid so.
Helen, did you ever try competing with a bank?
No.
Well, take my word for it, and don't try it. It's useless! If it were some other woman, I could handle her, but after all, you can't scratch a bank's eyes out now, can you?
Hardly.
Oh, well. I guess the only other thing for me to do is to go out and buy myself a few sticks of dynamite. When he comes out, you tell him I'll be back. He hasn't gotten rid of me!
All right.
Yes, ma'am, you can deposit your money here.
Is it safe?
Absolutely.
It's his life insurance money, you know.
Quiet down, please! Take it easy, folks. Everything will be all right.
But you said it would be safe! It's his life insurance money. Oh, please, I'll go to the Old Ladies' Home if you don't do something, please!
Please, lady. Please be quiet. Everything will be all right. Open up here, folks. All right, folks, please!
Well, Sampson, what is it?
Here's the data on the Clyde deal.
Good. I'll take this along with me. Tell Clyde I'll see him tomorrow. I'm sick and tired of the delay.
I'm afraid he's been stalling.
That's just exactly what he has been doing. This deal should have been closed weeks ago. Tell him to keep tomorrow open . . .
He says he can't get away in the daytime.
How about his nights? He's too busy running around. Tell him to keep tomorrow night open, come in and sign this thing, or I'll call this whole deal off.
Yes, sir.
The lobby's half filled now.
What are you talking about?
They've been coming in steady all morning. I have called for some extra police.
All right. Send down to the vaults and have our reserve cash sent up here right away.
We haven't much on hand, you know. If it gets any worse, I hope we don't have to close the doors.
The bank's reputation wouldn't be worth a nickel after that. This is just a flurry, that's all. They've heard about the robbery and got panicstricken. Listen, get a hold of our available securities and have them turned into cash. Wait a minute. Get my personal stuff and have that turned into cash too. Tell the boys anyone caught arguing with a depositor will be fired on the spot.
Yes, sir.
Look at them, Mr. Dickson. They're going crazy.
Did you get the case for the securities?
Yes, sir.
Mine too?
Yes, sir. But soon as our money runs out, they'll mob the place.
The fools! If they only knew it, they're making things worse for themselves. Somebody starts a silly rumor, and they lose their heads.
What'll we do?
I'll talk to them. Listen, go back and tell the boys to stall as much as possible. Tell 'em not to pay any attention to what I said. Tell 'em to verify every signature.
We can't keep open till four o'clock. We haven't cash enough to last an hour.
Don't you think I know it?
Mr. Dickson! Mr. Dickson!
Get all the big bills in the place. Take them out and get them changed. Get nothing but ones and fives. Distribute them among the tellers. Tell them to take their time. Stall as much as possible. Count and recount the money.
Yes, sir.
I hate to do this, but I've got to have time to dig up some help. I think I know where I can get some real cash. Snap into it, Sampson. We will lick this thing yet.
What's the matter? What's going on here? This is ridiculous! You can't hold this boy on a vague suspicion.
I'm afraid I must, Mr. Dickson.
Why pick on him ?
It's an inside job. That's a cinch. Whoever did it had a pretty good picture of the layout. Now Brown, here, is in charge of the vaults, isn't he?
Yes.
What time did this thing happen?
The clock opposite the vault was stopped by a bullet at 12:09.
All right. If the boy proves an alibi, he's all right, isn't he?
If he can do it, yes.
Why, certainly he can. Matt, now all you've got to do is tell them where you were last night, between twelve and twelvethirty, and everything will be all right.
That's what he says. I got a man from headquarters checking up on it now.
Good. You've got nothing to worry about. Soon as the report comes in, you'll be released. And listen, don't talk so loud. Take it easy. Coast a little.
All I know is the bank's been robbed and a murder's been committed. The way I see it, Brown here looks guilty.
What are you talking about? He had no more to do with it than you did.
Maybe. But I'm taking no chances. Why, this kid's got a record.
So have you. So have I. So's everybody got a record. What difference does that make? You can't go around pinning crimes on people just because they
Of course it's true  and he knows it.
Listen, Matt. If you don't tell the truth, I can't help you. Where were you last night?
You were right, Mr. Dickson! Brown didn't have anything to do with it. Here's your man.
Why, you must be crazy. I've known this man for years.
He's just confessed. He's been mixed up with the toughest gangsters in town.
My wife? What's she got to do with you?
No wonder he didn't want to mention her name.
You're lying!
Don't worry, Mr. Dickson. We'll find out whether he's telling the truth. I'll have a man from headquarters check up on it right away.
You don't want to check up on anybody. I'll do all the checking up. Wait a minute.
It's all right. Thanks.
And what's more, keep up the good work and who knows  some day you'll be the fellow sitting behind that desk . . . Not a bad thought, eh?
What's the matter? You don't seem very excited about it.
Sure, I think it's swell.
Say, come on. Show a little enthusiasm. What's the matter? Are you sick or something? Go on, fake it  even if it isn't real.
Aw, I'm sorry, Mr. Dickson. It's just kind of sudden, that's all. Sure, I'm excited. I think it's great. Only, well, you've done so much for me already . . . I'll never be able to thank you enough.
Aw, go on, forget it. You came through, didn't you? That's all I wanted. A lot of them didn't think you would. You don't know how much satisfaction it's been to me. It's been swell. Well, when are you and Helen going to get married?
Well, I
I suppose you want me to fix that up for you too, eh?
I already told him I was home.
There you are.
Wait a minute. Wait a minute. Matt, do you realize you're up against something? You're being charged with murder. It's serious, son. Now come on, I know you didn't do it. But we've got to make them believe it. Come on, tell the truth, where were you last night?
I can't tell you.
No. I won't.
You're protecting somebody.
No, I'm not Mr. Dickson!
Yes, you are. You're protecting somebody. Now listen, it doesn't make any difference who it is. It can't be as important as this. Now come on, tell me. Where were you last night? Come on, don't be a fool. Matt, you trust me, don't you?
We haven't got much time left, Mr. Dickson. We've got to do something quick or it'll be too late.
Why wouldn't you tell me where you were last night?
You're not giving up, are you, Mr. Dickson?
Were you in Cluett's apartment?
Oh, I can explain about that later. You're losing your bank  don't you realize what that means?
Was Mrs. Dickson there?
Listen, Mr. Dickson, don't let them lick you just because a couple of big shots turned you down. You've got more friends than anybody in this town. Little guys  guys who wouldn't be in business if it weren't for you. All you've got to do is
Wait a minute. Answer my question. Was Mrs. Dickson there?
Well . . . uh . . . I . . .
She was, wasn't she? How long has this been going on? Do you know?
Aw, I don't know what you're talking about. All I know is that you're losing your bank and
All right. That's all. Please, Matt.
I want you both to take the day off. Go downtown and get a license and get married right away!
But I haven't . . .
I don't want to hear any more about it. If you don't get married, I'll fire both of you.
Helen, while you're downtown, you might stop in and make reservations for the bridal suite on the Berengaria sailing next week.
Gee, thanks, Mr. Dickson
Wait a minute. Where's your uniform?
I haven't any.
You haven't got a uniform?
No, sir.
My goodness, you ought to have a uniform. How much does one cost?
Why, I don't know.
You see Sampson. Tell him I sent you. You've got to have a uniform.
Oh, make that uniform blue.
Yes, sir.
Well, well, well  got your uniform, eh?
Yes, sir.
Looks good. How much did it cost?
I don't know. Mr. Sampson bought it for me.
Good morning, Mrs. Pembroke.
Good morning, Mr. Dickson.
Got my letter?
Yes, thank you.
Hello, Helen.
Mr. Dickson?
Ah, Mrs. Pembroke. I spoke to Mr. Schaffer at the Guaranty. He's going to take care of that mortgage for you . . .
But, Mr. Dickson, I thought you were going to take care of the mortgage. I only want ten thousand. The property is worth sixty.
Mr. Schaffer will take good care of you. He'll give you fifteen  maybe twenty . . .
Yes?
Helen, I'm going to Philadelphia, just as soon as the bank closes. Make all the arrangements, will you?
Yes, sir.
Yes?
Mr. Sampson . . .
All right. Send him in.
Helen!
Yes?
Get Mrs. Dickson on the phone.
Good morning.
Helen, you're becoming more beautiful every day. What are we going to do about it?
I don't know.
Guess we'll just have to sacrifice the bank. When are you and Matt going to get married?
Why  well, I
Ummm. Stalling, eh? Anything new?
Why, the directors are waiting for you in the board room.
Directors, eh? Long faces?
Longer.
I haven't got any new stories for them this morning, either.
Helen, tell Matt I want to see him.
Yes, sir.
Oh, Mr. Dickson  they're going to arrest Matt. They think he did it!
Where is he now?
In Mr. Sampson's office.
Now don't you worry about it.
Come on in here, Helen. Bring your book. I want some numbers to try to get some action. Get Parker at the UnionLeeds  the Exchange . . . Winslow and old man Harris at the Home Mortgage. Snap into it, Helen. Just as quick as you can.
Yes, sir.
You want the rest of those numbers, Mr. Dickson?
Numbers? No, never mind.
Good morning, Helen.
Good morning.
Say, I know what's the matter with you. Matt!
Oh!
Oh, no! It's not for you. You're only going to get married. Mrs. Dickson and I are going to go on the honeymoon.
Well, look who's here! Hello, dear.
Hello, darling.
If this isn't a redletter day for Tom Dickson! First I trample on the Board of Directors, then I promote Matt here to assistant cashier, and now to complete the day I have a visit from my sweet and lovely and gorgeous wife. What a man, what a man!
It's amazing that your sweet, lovely, gorgeous wife can ever get to see you.
Oooh! That has the earmarks!
What's the matter dear? What have I done now?
Nothing. Tom, I thought you were going out with me tonight.
Oh, I did have a date with you tonight, didn't I?
Yes.
I'm terribly sorry. I'd forgotten all about you. I'm so sorry, dear.
Now Tom, you simply cannot go to Philadelphia tonight. That's all there is to it.
But I have to go, dear. It's a very important banker's meeting.
I don't care whether it's important or not. You said you were going out with me, and if you hadn't promised so faithfully, I wouldn't have gone and planned the whole thing.
Listen, it isn't so terribly important. We can go to the theatre any time.
The theatre?
That's what it was you planned, wasn't it?
Yes, of course.
You can take some of the girls. You can take Mildred  or Gwynn
The girls! I don't suppose it ever occurred to you that I might go out and find myself an attractive young man . . .
Ho! Ho! Ho!
Ho, ho, ho, yourself! I wouldn't laugh if I were you. You may not suspect it, but I'm still attractive  to some.
Listen, don't go around being attractive to anyone but me . . .
Well . . .
Don't you forget that I'm still the head man around here too. Now we'll get the tickets changed for tomorrow night. You and I are going out together. How's that?
Tomorrow night?
All right. I'll postpone the whole thing until tomorrow night.
Happy now?
No.
Listen, dear. I want to ask you something. I know it's a silly thing for me to ask you, but . . . I want you to tell me the truth. Where were you last night?
Last night? Er  why  uh, last night . . .
Listen, dear. Now tell me the truth about this. Were you in Cluett's apartment?
In Cluett's apartment? Well dear, you see, I . . . I . . .
Good morning, Mr. Dickson.
John, how's your wife this morning?
Much better this morning, thank you.
Got a handkerchief?
Excuse me
Wait a minute. How do you feel this morning?
I'm feeling fine this morning.
That makes it unanimous. I feel all right too.
Thank you!
Shall we let the people come in?
Of course, let them in! You're late now.
Good morning, Mr. Dickson. My wife is much better this morning.
Well, that's too bad. Mine's all right too.
Are the payrolls ready for tomorrow?
Yes, sir.
Let me see your cash book, will you?
Now?
Yes, now.
The butler said I could stay. I told him it was important.
Oh, yeah?
Well, I thought I'd like to have a little talk with you.
I'm listening.
It's funny  now that I'm here, I don't know just how to go about it. You see, I kind of expected to find you here alone.
Anything you have to say to me, you can say in the morning.
Oh no, Mr. Cluett, if it's all the same to you, I'd rather not wait. It's about you and Mrs. Dickson.
I'm not interested in what you think.
You've no right to do this to her, Mr. Cluett. Why don't you think it over? It's only gonna get you into a lot of trouble.
I tell you, I'm not interested in your opinion.
No? Then maybe you'll understand, Mrs. Dickson. Oh, gee, he's crazy about you. Nobody knows it better than you. If he ever finds out, it'll kill him.
Phyllis, you don't have to explain anything. You'd do well to mind your own business.
This is my business. Mr. Dickson's been like a father to me. What has he ever done to you to deserve a deal like this?
That will be just about enough! Now get out of here!
I guess I have said enough I'm just wasting my breath talking to you.
This won't do. Not during business hours . . .
Why, I needed a
What is the matter with you? You're trembling?
Am I? Why, I  I don't know any reason why I should be, unless of course it's you . . .
Me?
Being alone with you has always done this to me. You know that.
For a celebrated bounder, that is an awful admission. Besides, I never knew that any female could do this to you .
Well, you can. You always could.
Liar! You're just suffering from lack of sleep.
Here, here, here, now! Don't you go back to work on me, too. I'm getting tired of this. Besides, it's beginning to affect your looks
What is?
running around. Not your work. You'd better start reforming, Cyril!
If I thought you were the slightest bit interested, I would.
Not bad, not bad at all. Do you know something? I've always been curious about your line.
Line?
Whatever it is that makes you such a riot with women.
Come on Cyril, try a little bit of it out on me. I haven't had any firstclass blarney thrown at me since the day I was married.
But you see, it isn't blarney where you're concerned.
Now let me see, what comes next? Oh yes, I know  what are you doing tonight, Phyllis?
Doesn't that come next?
Yes, yes, it does. What are you doing tonight, Phyllis?
See, we're getting along famously!
Oh! Oh, no! I think I've done enough experimenting for one day. Congratulations, Cyril. You've convinced me that you're a philanderer of the very first order. I shall recommend you highly.
Please, please don't laugh at me, Phyllis. I must see you tonight!
But I'm giving a party for him  a real, oldfashioned surprise party. Caps, bells, whistles, and everything. I'm really terribly excited about it. I've been planning it for months.
Well
Well, what?
Well, aren't you going to invite me?
You? No can do. It's all set. Just a few of Tom's closest friends.
Now Phyllis, if you don't invite me, I'm coming anyway.
Don't be silly, Cyril. These are respectable people. They'd probably bore you to death.
No, they won't. Not when you are there. Oh, please, be a sport. Please ask me.
Why are you so anxious?
Don't you know?
No.
I want to be near you!
What?
Don't you know I've been crazy about you for years?
Now wait a minute, wait a minute...
I've loved you ever since I can remember, long before you married Tom Dickson.
Why, Cyril, you're insane
No. No, I'm not. I deliberately avoided you. I was afraid of making a fool of myself. But I won't stand it any longer
Cyril!
What's this?
My apartment.
I knew I couldn't trust you. You told me you were taking me home.
Come on up for just a few minutes. We'll have just one drink, then we'll go.
No. I know the answer to that one. I think you'd better take me home.
What's the matter? Afraid papa will spank?
No. No, I'm afraid papa isn't that much interested. He's too busy rushing off to Philadelphia to make stuffy, old speeches at stuffy, old bankers' meetings. Too busy closing big, important deals I think I will have a drink.
Good for you. Come on.
You know, there ought to be a Congressional Medal for men like you. America's comfort to misunderstood wives. I never thought I would find myself in that class.
Oh, you're not so badly off. There's something much worse than being a misunderstood wife.
What is that, Mr. Bones?[7]
A misunderstood bachelor.
And now fair woman, I have you in my power.
I'm not afraid of you. You haven't got a moustache!
I'll grow a moustache by the time you get out of here.
Why, Matt!
What are you doing here?
You know what we do to welchers, Cluett, don't you?
I know, I know, Dude. Oh, I must have been crazy! I lost my head completely!
That's your funeral. We've got fifty thousand dollars comin' to us.
I haven't got it.
Then what did you want to gamble for? If you'd have beat us out of fifty G's, you'd have been paid, wouldn't you? Well, we want our dough.
I'm sorry, Dude, butI
That don't do us any good.
But after all, you can't take blood from a stone.
We can take blood from anything If it's comin' to us.
Good heavens, man! You're not suggesting that I
Why not?
Why, I couldn't do that . . . !
You don't have to do nothing.
What do you mean?
All you gotta do is fix a few things for us , and we'll do the rest, see?
Dude  there's not any chance of my becoming involved in this, is there?
You? No, you'll be all right, so long as you establish an alibi for tonight.
know, but
Be sure you're with somebody responsible in case any questions are asked. Understand?
But Dude, listen  couldn't we make this some other time?
Listen, buddy, you're getting by pretty easy. Quit squawking!
Confessed! Cluett, in heaven's name, what got into you?
I don't know. It's all been like a crazy nightmare, Mr. Dickson.
What happened? You're not a thief. How'd you get mixed up with these kind of people?
Gambling  I owed them a lot of money. Last week I lost over fifty thousand dollars!
Fifty thousand dollars!
But I didn't kill that man last night. Honest I didn't, Mr. Dickson!
What was my wife doing in your apartment last night?
Nothing, nothing, Mr. Dickson. Don't pay any attention to me. I don't know what I'm saying.
You just mentioned her name. What was she doing there? What was she doing in your apartment?
She just came up for a drink. Just for a few minutes.
She wasn't to blame, Mr. Dickson. It wasn't her fault. Honest, it wasn't. I begged her to come up. She didn't
Get out, get out!
I hope you don't mind me asking you a few questions, Mr. Cluett.
Of course, yes. Just what would you like to know, Inspector?
Where were you at twelve o'clock last night?
That's very simple. I was home.
That is simple, isn't it? I assume you can prove that if necessary.
Oh yes, of course. There was someone with me. A lady.
Looks like you're going to have no trouble at all. What was the lady's name, Mr. Cluett?
If you don't mind, Inspector, I'd rather not say  that is, unless it becomes absolutely essential. You see, she's married.
Oh!
You understand?
Why, of course.
Thanks.
Somebody must be in good humor. He was humming "Mother Machree."
It's one of the boys from headquarters. He always sings "Mother Machree" whenever he's got good news. Looks like this case'll be settled in no time.
Stand back Inspector, or I'll shoot. Drop that gun.
All right, Jack, all right.
Don't be a fool, Cluett. This is only going to make it worse for you.
Stand back, Inspector. Let me out of here, or I'll shoot you!
What were you doing at Finlay's this morning?
They took my keys yesterday. I went there to get them back.
I was crazy, I tell you, Mr. Dickson. I didn't know what I was doing. I wandered around in a daze. All I could think of was that they were going to kill me . . . You'll stand by me, won't you, Mr. Dickson? You won't go back on me now, will you? I'll die if they send me to prison!
Don't forget there's a dead watchman downstairs.
I didn't kill him! I had nothing to do with that, I tell you! I was home in my apartment last night  I can prove it!
Claims he was there with a married woman. Doesn't want to mention her name.
He won't believe it, Mr. Dickson. But it's the truth  honest it is. I was in my apartment last night  ask your wife  she
Say, you know, I found out something yesterday about hitting a golf ball. You've got to hit with the left hand, and from the inside out, it's the only way you can hit anything
I think, Mr. Dickson, we would like to have a little of your very valuable time here at the bank this morning, if you don't mind.
Oh, you would, eh? All right. If it's more important than golf, go ahead. What's on your mind?
What's the matter with my policy? How many losses has this bank taken in the last twentyfive years? I'll tell you. Not a single one! What's wrong with that kind of banking?
Just pure luck!
Character, hmmpf! That's your idea?
Not at all. That's Alexander Hamilton's idea[5]  the finest banking mind this country has ever known. Those are his exact words, gentlemen. Character! It's the only thing you can bank on, and it's the only thing that will pull this country out of the doldrums.
Most of the creditors I know personally. I've seen them grow up in the community. I knew their fathers and mothers before them.
I know, Dickson. That's all very well. But you're taking too many chances. In these times a bank should keep liquid in case of trouble. In case of emergency!
I'm running this bank my way. Get that clear!
Gentlemen, you notice Mr. Dickson refuses to consider our wishes. He refuses an offer to merge with the New York Trust  the only thing that will put this bank on safe ground. He insists upon running a bank on so flimsy a thing as . . . as faith!
Yes! You said it, Clark. That's the only thing that means anything to me.
We want to talk to you.
What about?
We'll discuss that in the board room.
We'll be forced to shut the doors. I've worked twentyfive years night and day to keep this bank alive. You've all made money out of it. Are you willing to help?
What do you mean, help?
I know that among you, you have at least a million dollars in various banks throughout the city. Get that money over here and I'll stop this run within five minutes.
That sounds very simple, Dickson, but why should we jeopardize our personal fortunes?
I have everything I own in it. It's your bank as well as mine, isn't it?
The depositors you were protecting were the first ones to pounce on you. You thought they were your friends. Why don't you go out there now and try and get some help from them?
Aw, they've gone crazy. You can't reason with a mob.
No. You can't reason with anyone else when you're in a jam. We pleaded with you to keep liquid, but you wouldn't listen to us. You preached to us about faith and a lot of other rubbish. Now you want our help. You want us to throw a lot of cash into a bank that you've wrecked. All right. There's one way you can get it. Give us an option on your stock and resign as president.
So, that's it, eh? You've waited a long time for this chance, haven't you? Well, I'm not going to resign now  or ever.
Say, you can't do that
I can't? You just wait and see. If that run doesn't stop within the next hour, I'll shut the doors. You know what that means? The bank examiner will step in tomorrow. You'll be forced to liquidate. I'll insist upon it. The depositors will be paid one hundred cents on the dollar. What's left you gentlemen can have. But I'll guarantee there won't be enough to pay your next month's garage bill.
Dickson, I'd like to talk to you about the bank.
The bank. All right. Do anything you want with it.
Come out here you pawnbrokers  take a look at this!
We've been waiting fifteen minutes
You know what you can do with that! Come on, take a look at this! You'll see a demonstration of faith that's worth more than all the collateral in the world.
Personally, I think you're getting panicstricken about nothing. Dickson's all right.
Oh, is he? We carry more unsecured paper than any other institution in the city. We're fools to tolerate it.
Don't make me laugh, Schultz!
Dickson doesn't have to go. But he must agree to this merger with New York Trust
What good will that do?
What good will that do? Why, it will take control away from him. We'll put somebody else in charge, call in all doubtful loans, and be on safe ground again. That's what good it will do!
How are you protecting your depositors? By making a lot of idiotic loans!
Take it easy, Clark.
You know Dickson as well as we do. He'll shut the doors before he gives up control.
All right, let him! I'm sick and tired of hearing about him. If he wants to run the bank, let him do it. I don't want any part of it.
Mr. Dickson in yet?
Not yet, Mr. Clark.
When he comes in, tell him we're waiting for him in the board room.
Yes, sir.
And tell him not to delay.
Yes, sir.
Say Matt, I'll have to have some money for those Manville payrolls.
How much?
About twentyfour thousand.
It was more than that last week.
Yeah.
Here's twentyfive thousand.
Say, do me a favor, will you Charlie?
Yeah.
Let me have ten bucks?
Ten bucks? Say, if I had ten bucks, I'd quit.
Charlie!
Yeah?
I'll pay it back to you Saturday  on the level I will. Give a guy a break, will you? I've got to get it back in my account. If Helen ever finds out that I
Baby, I can't give you anything but love...
Whose death?
It'll be yours if you don't kick in with that ten bucks.
Say pal, did you ever hear of a Depression?
Aw, nerts!
Where you been?
Where do you think I've been? I took the baby for a stroll in the park.
What's the matter, Charlie?
I'm fourteen cents out, and it took me half an hour to find the mistake. And me with a date, too.
I remember once when your account checked.
Yeah.
And listen, wise guy  I'm setting friend time clock for exactly nine o'clock, so no squawks out of you guys in the morning.
Say, don't annoy me. I got troubles of my own.
Oscar, what's the matter?
I was the first one to see it. I was coming down the stairs, and there was the watchman lying dead at my feet.
No kidding?
No kidding. When I saw it, you could'a knocked me over with a pin.
Where's Matt?
Matt?
Yeah. He'll have a tough time thinking up a wisecrack for this one . . .
The detectives got Matt up there in Sampson's office.
He has?
Yeah.
Hello, Tom.
You here again? What do you want?
What do you suppose anybody wants? Money, money, money!
Listen, I told you I wasn't interested in that deal, didn't I?
I want to know why .
Tom, I never had trouble getting credit from you before. When I was flat broke you gave me all the money I wanted. Now I come to you with a swell deal, and the greatest
I'll tell you why. I don't like the crowd you're mixed up with. Personally, you can have all the credit you want. But for that deal  not a cent.
But listen, Tom, I
What's the idea of turning her down? It sounds like a perfectly safe investment.
She's a widow. I don't like taking mortgages from widows.
Why not?
If she can't pay, I'll have to foreclose, won't I?
Yes  sure
Yeah  sure!
No, thank you.
I'd like some tea, please.
Sorry.
Has Mr. Kessler said anything regarding the attack on the moors?
He may have a point, Lieutenant. Two strong boys would be able to defend themselves against one man.
Sgt. McManus, are you suggesting that David and Jack were, in fact, attacked by some animal and that the officialdom of East Proctor has conspired to keep it a secret? We have an autopsy report on the murderer who was shot in the act by the local police. We have two witnesses to the crime. You'll forgive me, Mr. Kessler, if I consider your testimony as coming from someone who has gone through a terrible shock.
Lieutenant, the boy seems pretty lucid to me and...
And what, Sergeant?
I don't rightly know, sir.
That is precisely my point. David, as far as we are concerned, the matter is closed. We won't trouble you any further. Good day.
I cannot accept a connection between David Kessler and last night's murders. We will find him, however. I can assure you of that.
We'll find him, not to worry.
Do you have any hot soup?
No.
Hot chocolate?
We've got spirits and beer. If it's something hot you want, you can have tea.
Then you have some hot tea?
No.
Oh.
But I can heat some up for you if you'd like.
Remember the Alamo?
I beg your pardon?
Hello, there. What can I get you?
Campari and soda would do nicely.
Sorry, love.
I suppose Guinness will suffice.
What's that?
Oh, that's been there for two hundred years. We were going to paint it out, but it's traditional, so we left it.
I see. You've heard nothing about the incident?
Yes?
Lt. Villiers and Sgt. McManus are here to see you, Doctor.
Send them in.
Excuse me. Yes?
Roger Mathison, Doctor.
What here?
He's on the telephone.
Tell him I'm out. No, tell him I've passed away. An old war wound or something. Tell him I'm dead. And no more calls!
Dr. Hirsch?
Come in, come in. Please sit. Some tea?
No, thank you, Doctor.
Well, then, what can I do for Scotland Yard?
You were saying?
Has David Kessler anything to say concerning the attack on the moors?
Why don't we ask him?
The forensic lads seem to feel that some sort of animal was involved, that's true, but I hardly think...
Regardless of what you think, Lieutenant, the fact remains that David is missing and that we must find him.
What can we do to assist you?
Stay here. If we need you, we'll know where to reach you.
Are you cold?
Yes.
Good.
Jack.
David.
You're not having a good time are you?
Oh, I don't know. I mean look around. Isn't this a fun place?
Well, I like it here.
I'm sorry. Northern England first, Italy later.
Right.
Do you think she'll meet me in Rome?
I think Debbie Klein is a mediocre person with a good body.
Debbie is not mediocre and she has one of the great bodies of all time.
She's a jerk.
You're talking about the woman I love.
I'm talking about a girl you want to fuck, so give me a break.
Well, anyway, do you think she'll be there?
I don't know.
Rendezvous in Rome starring Jack Goodman and Debbie Klein. The love affair that shocked Europe! See torrid lovemaking at its most explicit! See Jack and Debbie expose their lust in the sacred halls of the Vatican! Never has the screen dared...
If you don't stop, I'm going to kill you.
I have to make love to her. It's very simple. She has no choice really.
It just fascinates me that you can spend so much energy on someone so dull.
It is impossible for a body like that to be dull.
We've known Debbie what, since the eighth grade? How many years of foreplay is that?
She says she 'likes me too much'.
The Slaughtered Lamb?
Of course, The Slaughtered Lamb. Why else would they have a severed fox head on a spear as their symbol?
That's a wolf's head.
Of course, The Slaughtered Lamb. Why else would they have a severed wolf's head on a spear as their symbol?
That's not a spear. It's a pike.
A severed wolf's head on a pike as their symbol.
David, before we go in there I want you to know that  no matter what happens to us  it's your fault.
I assume full responsibility.
Okay.
Shall we?
Hello.
Nice to see you.
Nice looking group.
Listen, at least it's warm in here.
Look at that.
What about it?
It's a fivepointed star.
Maybe the owners are from Texas.
Ask them what the candles are for.
You ask them.
Listen, that's a pentangle, a five pointed star. It's used in witchcraft. Lon Chaney, Jr. and Universal Studios maintain it's the mark of the wolf man.
I see. You want me to ask these people if they're burning candles to ward off monsters.
Right.
Wrong.
Go on, ask them.
You ask them.
Jack, we'd better go.
What do you mean? I'm starving.
Come on, Jack, shall we go?!!
Apparently so.
What the hell was that all about?
I don't know. Let's see if there's an inn or something up the road.
Beware the moon?
Come on, I'm freezing.
That was weird. I guess leaving was the best idea.
I don't know. Now that we're out here and it's three degrees, I'm not so sure I wouldn't rather face a bloodthirsty mob.
Well, not quite a bloodthirsty mob.
What do you think was wrong?
I have no idea.
Maybe that pentangle was for something supernatural.
I see and they were too embarrassed to talk about it, because they felt so silly.
Say, David...
I'm well aware of how pleasant the weather is in Rome at the present time thank you.
Did you hear that?
I heard that.
What was it?
Could be a lot of things.
Yeah?
A coyote.
There aren't any coyotes in England.
The Hound of the Baskervilles.
Pecos Bill.
Heathcliffe.
Heathcliffe didn't howl.
No, but he was on the moors.
It's a full moon, 'beware the moon'.
I vote we go back to The Slaughtered Lamb.
Yeah.
Shit! David, what is that?
I don't know. Come on.
Come on, where?
Anywhere! I think we should just keep moving.
It's moving.
It's circling us.
What's the plan?
Plan?
Let's just keep walking.
It's in front of us.
Do you think it's a dog?
Oh shit. What is that?
A sheep dog or something. Turn slowly and let's walk away.
Nice doggie. Good boy.
Walk away, Jack.
Walking away, yes, sir. Here we are walking away.
See anything?
No.
It sounds far away.
Not far enough. Come on.
Jack?
Yeah.
Where are we going?
I'll tell you when we get there.
Well. I'm glad we... WHOAA!!
You really scared me, you shithead.
Are you going to help me up?
Nice to see you.
Get the fuck out of here, Jack.
Thanks a lot.
This is too much. I can't handle this.
I'm aware that I don't look so great, but I thought you'd be glad to see me.
David! You're hurting my feelings.
Hurting your feelings? Has it occurred to you that it may be unsettling to have you rise from your grave to visit me? Listen to me, I'm talking to a hamburger!
I'm sorry to be upsetting you, David, but I had to come.
Aren't you supposed to be buried in New York someplace?
Yeah. Your parents came to my funeral. I was surprised at how many people came.
Why should you be surprised? You were a very wellliked person.
Debbie Klein cried a lot.
I can't stand it.
So you know what she does? She's so grief stricken she runs to find solace in Rudy Levine's bed.
Rudy Levine the shmuck?
Life mocks me even in death.
I'm going completely crazy.
David!
What?!
David, now I know this may be hard for you, but I have to warn you.
Warn me? Will you get out of here, you meat loaf?
I'm a grisly sight, it's true; but I love you and that's why I'm here. You've got to know.
If you love me so much, Jack, you'll realize how disconcerting it is to share one's breakfast with the living dead!
We were attacked by a werewolf.
I'm not listening!
On the moors, we were attacked by a lycanthrope, a werewolf.
Shut up, you zombie!
I was murdered, an unnatural death, and now I walk the earth in limbo until the werewolf's curse is lifted.
What's wrong with you? Shut up!
The wolf's bloodline must be severed. The last remaining werewolf must be destroyed.
Will you be quiet?!
It's you, David.
What?!
You survived and now you shall continue the curse.
What are you talking about? I won't accept this! Get out! God damit!
Remember what that guy at The Slaughtered Lamb said? 'Beware the moon.'
Stop it, Jack.
Beware the moon. The full moon, David. You've got two days.
Jack, please go away. Please go away.
You'll stalk the streets of London a creature of the night.
You're talking like Boris Karloff! It's movie dialogue!
David, please believe me. You will kill people, David. You've got to stop the bloodshed before it begins.
Nurse!
Listen to me! Take your own life, David. It's our only chance.
Nurse!
The supernatural! The powers of darkness! It's all true. Take your own life! Suicide, David. Join me.
Nurse! Oh God! Alex!
It's cold, David, and I'm so alone. The undead surround me. Have you ever talked to a corpse? It's boring! I'm lonely! Kill yourself, David, before you kill others.
You're not real.
Don't be an asshole, David. Come here.
What are you doing here?
I wanted to see you.
Okay, you've seen me. Now go away.
David, I'm sorry I upset you yesterday, but you must understand what is going on.
I understand all right. You're one of the undead and I'm a werewolf.
Yes.
Get out of here, Jack!
David, tomorrow night is the full moon. You'll change, you'll become...
A monster. I know, I know.
You must take your own life now, David, before it's too late.
Jack, are you really dead?
What do you think?
I think I've lost my mind. I think you're not real. I think I'm asleep and you're a part of another bad dream.
You must believe me.
What, Jack? That tomorrow night beneath the full moon I'll sprout hair and fangs and eat people? Bullshit!
The canines will be real. You'll taste real blood! God damit, David, please believe me! You'll kill and make others like me! I'm not having a nice time, David! Don't allow this to happen again! You must take your own life!
I will not accept this! Now go away!
Hi, Jack.
Hi, David.
What can I say, Jack?
You don't have to say anything.
Aren't you going to say, 'I told you so'?
If I was still alive, I probably would.
You look awful.
Thank you.
I didn't mean it. I don't know what I'm saying. I'm not even sure it was me who killed those people. I don't remember doing it.
What about the zoo?
Well, even if I'm not the wolfman, I am crazy enough to do something like that. I mean, here I sit in Leicester Square talking to a corpse. I'm glad to see you, Jack.
I want you to meet some people.
David Kessler, this is Gerald Bringsly.
Hello.
Gerald is the man you murdered in the subway. We thought it best you didn't see him as he's a fresh kill and still pretty messy.
Because this must be stopped.
How shall I do it?
I could hang myself.
If you did it wrong, it would be painful. You'd choke to death.
Hello, David. I am Dr. Hirsch and this is a countryman of yours, Mr. Collins.
Where am I?
You're in a hospital in London.
London? Where's Jack? I had a strange dream.
I should think so after your recent traumatic experiences.
The guy I was with. Is he all right? How did I get to London?
Now, David, I want you to prepare yourself; your friend is dead.
Miss Price! Miss Price, please!
Get your fucking hands off me! What the hell is going on here?
How long have I been here?
You've been unconscious since you were brought in two weeks ago.
Two weeks?
You've suffered some rather severe cuts and bruises, lost a bit of blood, but nothing too serious; black and blue for a while. You'll have some dueling scars to boast of. That lunatic must have been a very fierce fellow. They say a mad man has the strength of ten.
Lunatic?
Now we've just given you a pretty strong sedative, so try to get some rest now. Miss Price will see to your needs. Rest now.
There were witnesses?
So they said.
How could there have been witnesses? It was so dark. We were running and I fell and Jack went to help me up and this thing came from nowhere... I don't understand what they're talking about.
In time I'm sure it will all come back to you.
Doctor, my memory is fine. It's my sanity I'm beginning to worry about.
You've never had bad dreams before?
Sure, as a kid. But never so real. Never so bizarre.
Did you get a good look at the man who attacked you?
I've told you, it wasn't a man. It was an animal. A big wolf or something. A rabid dog.
Yes.
Look, Dr. Hirsch, I know I've been traumatized, but Jack was torn apart. I saw him. A man can't do that to someone with his bare hands.
You'd be surprised what horrors a man is capable of.
Did you see Jack?
No. In fact, your wounds were cleaned and dressed before you arrived here.
Did you talk to the police in East Proctor? Did the cops go to The Slaughtered Lamb?
I really don't know.
Then why the hell are you so quick to disbelieve me? You yourself said it must have taken incredible strength to tear apart a person like that.
David, please. The police are satisfied. I'm certain that if a monster were out roaming northern England we'd have seen it on the telly.
You really think I'm crazy, don't you?
Believe me. The Hound of the Baskervilles was an invention of Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's. And if you'd read the bloody book, you'd find that Holmes discovered your house of hell a fraud, a fake.
Dr. Hirsch? I'd rather not be by myself.
Of course not, David. I'll fetch in young Miss Price.
Mr. Kessler? Wake up, please.
I was having a nightmare.
Now go back to sleep so you'll be fresh for Dr. Hirsch in the morning.
What time is it?
It's nearly eight. I'm off duty shortly, then I'm off to the films with Alex.
Alex?
Miss Price, the other nurse that attended you.
What are you going to see?
An American film about the Mafia called 'See You Next Wednesday', and I want to see it badly, so you give me no problems and go to sleep.
Do you have bad dreams, too?
Some, everyone does.
Yes, but does everyone kill Bambi?
Bambi?
Here, Gladys, Tom. Did you hear the one about the crashing plane?
No, but we're about to.
You be quiet, woman, and let me speak.
Quiet, everyone! Hush! Shhh!
All right, laugh then. I shan't tell it.
Oh, come on, tell us.
No. You've had your chance.
Oh, all right. There was this airplane over the Atlantic on its way to New York. It was full of men from the United Nations.
That's very funny, that is.
No one brought them here! No one wanted them here!
You could have told them!
Why are you doing this to me, Jack?
This isn't Mr. Goodman's idea. He is your good friend, whereas I am a victim of your carnivorous lunar activities.
Mr. Bringsly, I'm sorry. I have absolutely no idea what to say to you.
You've left my wife a widow and my children fatherless. And I understand that I am to walk the earth one of the living dead until the wolf's bloodline is severed and the curse lifted.
That's easy for you to say  you're already dead.
No, David. Harry and I and everyone you murder are not dead. The undead.
Why are you doing this to me?
Officer, I killed those people last night.
You did, did you?
All right, you two, move along.
Hey, you asshole! I want you to arrest me!
There's no call for that kind of language.
Queen Elizabeth is a man! Prince Charles is a faggot! Winston Churchill was full of shit!
Now see here young man.
Shakespeare was French! The Queen Mother sucks cocks in hell! Shit! Fuck! Piss!
Who is this girl?
You're going to have to stop this disturbance or I shall arrest you.
That's what I want you to do, you moron!
Miss Price.
Yes, Mrs. Hobbs.
Take these round now, will you please? The American boy in twentyone is only to have these after he's eaten. Will you be sure of that?
Has he been refusing food?
Nothing quite as dramatic as that, Miss Price. He just doesn't eat enough of what is put before him. He suffers from nightmares. I'd think he just needs a hand to hold.
Yes, Mrs. Hobbs.
He all right?
Yes, I should think. He called out just now.
He's an American, you know. Dr. Hirsch is going to fetch round one of those Embassy fellows to see him.
Chart says he's from New York.
I think he's a Jew.
Why on earth do you say that?
I looked.
Really, Susan, I don't think that was very proper, and besides, it's common practice now.
Hello, Benjamin.
No.
No what?
No.
Well, all right then, be that way. Here, swallow this.
No.
Feeling better?
No.
The doctor will be round later. Would you like a picture book to look at? We have some lovely funny Beanos.
No.
Right.
How are we feeling tonight?
No.
No what?
No!
Benjamin, have you ever been severely beaten about the face and neck?
No.
I thought not.
It wasn't a lunatic.
I beg your pardon?
It was a wolf.
What?
A wolf.
Mr. Kessler?
Yes?
You haven't eaten your lunch.
I'm not very hungry, thank you.
I'm afraid you have to eat something.
Please, really. I'm not hungry.
You put me in an awkward position, Mr. Kessler.
How is that?
Well, you're to take these after you've eaten. Now what kind of nurse would I be if I failed in so simple a task as giving out some pills?
Leave the pills. I'll take them later.
Sorry.
Aw come on, Miss Price!
Call me Alex.
Aw come on, Alex!
Shall I be forced to feed you, Mr. Kessler?
Call me David.
Shall I be forced to feed you, David?
This is absurd. I'm not hungry. I don't want any food.
Right.
Let's try a little harder, shall we?
Will you give me a break?
You're a very beautiful girl.
I thought you were asleep.
I was. What are you reading?
'A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court' by Mark Twain.
Do you like it?
I've just started it. My friend gave it to me.
What do you dream about?
I dream of death mostly.
I'm sorry. I shouldn't have asked you.
It's okay. I want to talk to you.
How old are you?
That's not really a very proper question.
How old are you?
Twentyeight.
I'm twentyseven.
I know.
Now what do you want to talk about?
Was Jack Goodman your good friend?
My best friend. My very best friend.
Shall I read to you?
What? Oh, yes, please.
A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court by Samuel L. Clemens. This is after the preface but before chapter one: A Word of Explanation. You all right?
Yes, go on.
Ahem, A Word of Explanation. It was in Warwick Castle that I came across the curious stranger whom I am going to talk about. He attracted me by three things: his candid simplicity, his marvelous familiarity with ancient armor, and the restfulness of his company  for he did all the talking. We fell together as modest people will in the tail of the herd...
Hello. You all right?
I'm sorry I woke you up.
Don't be silly. Can I get you something?
No, thank you. Just keep me company for a while.
That's easy enough.
I keep having these really terrible dreams. They are getting worse and I can't seem to stop them.
David, your dreams will stop. You'll leave England and your bad memories; and then this will all fade away.
Will you come with me?
What?
I'm serious. You don't know me and I know nothing about you. We have a perfect relationship.
Now, David, I said I would keep you company, but I meant right here and now.
Will you think about it?
How did we get from your bad dreams to my taking a holiday with a patient?
Not just a patient  me.
You're being awfully forward, aren't you?
Forgive me, I'm trying to cheer myself up and an affair with a beautiful nurse seemed like just the thing to do it.
All I am to you is a sex fantasy then?
Now I'm embarrassed.
Good. I thought for a moment I was the only embarrassed one in the room.
I'm a werewolf.
A werewolf?
Are you better now?
I'll let you know the next full moon.
You're to be discharged tomorrow. Will you be all right?
My friend Jack was just here.
Your dead friend Jack?
Yeah. He says that I will become a monster in two days. What do you think?
What do I think? You mean about the possibility of your becoming a monster in two days or about visits from dead friends?
I was dreaming again?
I would think so.
Yeah, I would think so, too.
The kitchen.
Very nice.
Closet.
Charming.
Bathroom.
Lovely.
The bedroom.
There is only one bed.
David, perhaps you'd like to watch the telly while I take a shower.
It's nice to see you.
It's nice to see you.
Alex?
Yes?
Will you be here in about fifteen minutes?
Of course.
Good.
David, you don't honestly believe that in reality your friend Jack rose from the grave to breakfast with you? Do you really?
I was awake and he was in my room.
But, David.
I wasn't hallucinating.
Tomorrow is the full moon.
That's good, Alex. Reassure me.
Let me go now, you'll make me late.
Do me an enormous favor?
Anything.
Tell me that it's silly of me to be apprehensive.
It's silly of you to be apprehensive.
Werewolves simply do not exist.
David, do you want me to stay here tonight?
Yeah, I do, but go to work.
Listen, if you get too anxious, call me at the hospital, okay?
Okay.
I've left those pills for you.
A doper werewolf.
I'm off. There's food in the fridge.
See you later.
David! Where on earth have you been!?!
I'm freezing.
Alex, I've lost my mind. I woke up at the zoo! But you know what? I feel terrific!
The zoo?
Waking up at the zoo, that's not so insane. Having no clothes on? That's insane. What did I do last night, Alex?
Don't you remember?
I said goodbye to you. I was locked out of the flat. I climbed the wall and came in through the bathroom window. I started to read and then I was naked at the zoo! I guess I am out of my fucking mind.
The next corner we can get a cab.
I should be committed.
Dr. Hirsch will know what to do.
I don't know why I feel so good. I haven't felt this good in a long time.
But...
Pull over.
David, what are you doing?
Six people mutilated? It had to be me, Alex.
David, stop!
I am going to the cops. There's a full moon tonight. Jack was right. I...
Jack is dead!
Jack is dead. Look, six people have been killed. I'm going to the police.
David, please be rational. Let's go to Dr. Hirsch.
Rational!?! I'm a fucking werewolf, for Christ's sake!
He's playing a stupid joke, sir.
What?
We had an argument. He's being silly.
I swear, I don't know this girl.
Sir, he's very upset. His friend was killed and...
Will you shut up!?!!
Hopeless. It's hopeless.
David, let's go now.
Leave me alone, dammit! You people are crazy! I've got to get away from here! I've got to do something!
David, don't lose control.
Control!?! What control!?! Get away from me!
Dr. Hirsch, Mr. Kessler cried out a minute ago.
Miss Gallagher, surely you must perform some function here at the hospital.
Can I be of service, Miss Price?
Dr. Hirsch?
Go about your duties.
Yes, Doctor.
Oh, Miss Price?
Yes, Doctor?
What exactly did he call out?
He said 'Jack'.
That would be Jack Goodman, the boy who was killed.
What happened to them?
The police report said an escaped lunatic attacked them. He must have been a very powerful man. Although I really don't see that it is any of your concern, Miss Price.
No, sir. Of course, sir. Good day, Doctor.
Did he say a wolf?
Yes, I believe he did.
It's all right, Susan. Yes, Doctor, I have.
Come to my office, Miss Price.
Oh dear girl, your extracurricular activities are of no consequence to me. I don't give a damn who you sleep with. I'm concerned about David.
Yes, sir.
It's a full moon. Where is he?
At my flat. I'm off at midnight and...
He's not?
Alex, has David persisted in his werewolf fantasies?
Well, yes, but he seems to be more upset by the death of his friend.
Has his friend appeared to him again?
Yes.
What did he say?
David says Jack comes to warn him.
Warn him?
Dr. Hirsch, what's wrong? Is this more serious than I know?
I tried to investigate the attack. There are no records. The case was closed and now they've 'misplaced' the file. David's lacerations were cleaned and dressed when he arrived here and yet supposedly no doctor examined him before I did. The Goodman boy is already in the ground so he's no good to us. So I went to the pub in East Proctor where I was convinced of two things.
Yes.
They were lying. There were no witnesses, no escaped lunatic. The whole community is hiding the truth of what actually happened up there.
And what else?
I think the village of East Proctor is hiding some dark and terrible secret. I'm convinced that, like David, they believe in this werewolf.
You've absolutely no idea where David might be?
No. He knows no one in London, besides me. I shouldn't have left him alone.
Surely you're not suggesting...
David has suffered a severe trauma. I myself witnessed some form of mass neurosis in East Proctor. If all the villagers believe that Jack Goodman was killed by a werewolf, why shouldn't David? And then it follows that if he survived an attack by a werewolf, wouldn't he himself become a werewolf the next full moon?
Dr. Hirsch?
Oh, I don't mean running about on all fours and howling at the moon. But in such a deranged state he could harm himself, or perhaps others.
What shall we do?
Let's call the police and see if they can help us find our wandering boy.
He's here.
Is he all right? Why didn't you call me? Where was he?
He doesn't remember. He woke up at the zoo.
The zoo? Is he rational?
Yes, he is. He's very excited and confused, but he's not crazy, if that's what you mean.
Have you read the papers today? Have you listened to the radio or television?
No, why?
Is David acting strangely?
No, not really.
Could you get here without any trouble?
Yes, I should think so.
Right. Now listen carefully. I want you to bring David here. I want him in my care. I'll notify the police that we've found him. It is imperative that you bring him straight to the hospital. Do you understand?
Yes, Doctor.
You're certain he's lucid? You won't need any help?
He's fine. We'll come right over.
Shall I send a car?
No, a cab will be faster.
I expect you shortly.
What shall we do?
Tea would be nice.
Nurse Hobbs said there's a disturbance in Leicester Square involving some sort of mad dog.
David?
I doubt it. But it's something to do.
Has the patient in twentyone gotten his tray yet?
The American? Yes, duck.
How did he look?
What do you mean, 'how did he look'?
You know, did he seem depressed? Do you think he'll eat the food?
I'm an orderly, not a bleeding psychiatrist! I push things about, but I've little say what happens to them.
Thank you.
Herr Salieri.
Yes, I am looking after him.
Can we come in?
Well, he's sleeping now. Better not.
But he's all right?
Oh, yes. He's just exhausted. He became dizzy, that's all. We should let him rest.
Well, tell him we were here, won't you?
Of course.
And say everything went wonderfully. A triumphdeluxe  say that! Tell him the audience shouted his name a hundred times.
Bene.
I'll call tomorrow.
Yes. And congratulations to all of you. It was superb.
Oh, by the way, give him this. This is his share. That should cheer him up, eh?
Yes, indeed. Goodnight to you all now. It was perfection  truly!
Excuse me, sir, there is a lady who insists on talking to you.
Who is she?
She didn't say. But she says it's urgent.
Excuse me, my dear.
That lady is back, sir.
Show her in. Then go to bed.
What does he want?
He didn't say, sir. I told him I didn't know when you would be back, but he insisted on waiting.
Come with me. And stay in the room.
This is embarrassing, you know. You introduced Mozart to some of my friends and he's begging from practically all of them. It has to stop.
I agree, Baron.
Can't you think of anyone who might commission some work from him? I've done my best. I got him to arrange some Bach for my Sunday concerts. He got a fee  what I could afford. Can't you think of anyone who might do something for him?
No, Baron, no. I'm afraid Mozart is a lost cause. He has managed to alienate practically the whole of Vienna. He is constantly drunk. He never pays his debts. I can't think of one person to whom I dare recommend him.
How sad. It's tragic, isn't it? Such a talent.
Indeed. Just a moment  as a matter of fact I think I do know someone who could commission a work from him. A very appropriate person to do so. Yes.
Here I am, my angel.
What? Who the devil are you?
I've taken pity on you, my angel. I heard your wish.
Oh. Well, thank you! How wonderful. Some people get all the luck.
Now you've got to promise me faithfully you'll remain true to me forever. Then you'll see how tenderly your little birdie will love you.
I can't wait.
Well, promise then.
What do you mean  now?
Of course now. Right away, before I get any older.
Well, I don't know! I mean you're a delicious, delightful, delectable little bird, but don't you think you might be just a little tough?
Oh, I'm tender enough for you, my boy. I'm tender enough for you.
Bravo, Your Majesty!
Well done, Sire!
Well, actually, Sire, if you remember, we did finally incline to Italian.
Did we?
I know we banned this play, but frankly I can't remember why. Can you refresh my memory, Herr Director?
For the same reason, Herr Chamberlain, that it was banned in France.
Oh yes, yes. And that was?
Well, the play makes a hero out of a valet. He outwits his noble master and exposes him as a lecher. Do you see the implications? This would be, in a grander situation, as if a Chamberlain were to expose an Emperor.
Ah.
I've just learned something that might be of interest to you, Herr Director.
Yes?
Mozart is writing a new opera. An Italian opera.
Italian?
You mean that play?
Exactly.
He's setting that play to music?
Yes.
You must be mad.
Are you absolutely sure?
I've seen the manuscript.
Where?
Never mind.
Well, Mozart is already rehearsing.
Incredible.
The Emperor has given him permission.
What anger?
About the ballet.
Ballet? What ballet?
Excuse me  didn't His Majesty specifically forbid ballet in his opera?
Yes, absolutely. Is there a ballet in Figaro?
Yes, in the third act.
What do you want?
I am Father Vogler. I am a Chaplain here. I thought you might like to talk to someone.
About what?
You tried to take your life. You do remember that, don't you?
So?
In the sight of God that is a sin.
What do you want?
Do you understand that you have sinned? Gravely.
Leave me alone.
I cannot leave alone a soul in pain.
Do you know who I am? You never heard of me, did you?
That makes no difference. All men are equal in God's eyes.
Are they?
Offer me your confession. I can offer you God's forgiveness.
I do not seek forgiveness.
My son, there is something dreadful on your soul. Unburden it to me. I'm here only for you. Please talk to me.
How well are you trained in music?
I know a little. I studied it in my youth.
Where?
Here in Vienna.
Then you must know this.
I can't say I do. What is it?
I'm surprised you don't know. It was a very popular tune in its day. I wrote it. How about this?
Well?
I regret it is not too familiar.
Can you recall no melody of mine? I was the most famous composer in Europe when you were still a boy. I wrote forty operas alone. What about this little thing?
Oh, I know that! That's charming! I didn't know you wrote that.
I didn't. That was Mozart. Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart. You know who that is?
Of course. The man you accuse yourself of killing.
Ah  you've heard that?
All Vienna has heard that.
And do they believe it?
Is it true?
Do you believe it?
Should I?
Do you hear me?
He was murdered, Father! Mozart! Cruelly murdered.
It was incomprehensible. What was God up to? Here I was denying all my natural lust in order to deserve God's gift and there was Mozart indulging his in all directions  even though engaged to be married!  and no rebuke at all! Was it possible I was being tested? Was God expecting me to offer forgiveness in the face of every offense, no matter how painful? That was very possible. All the same, why him? Why use Mozart to teach me lessons in humility? My heart was filling up with such hatred for that little man. For the first time in my life I began to know really violent thoughts. I couldn't stop them.
Did you try?
Every day. Sometimes for hours I would pray!
Yes, Father. Yes! So much for my vow of chastity. What did it matter? Good, patient, hardworking, chaste  what did it matter? Had goodness made me a good composer? I realized it absolutely then  that moment: goodness is nothing in the furnace of art. And I was nothing to God.
You cannot say that!
No? Was Mozart a good man?
God's ways are not yours. And you are not here to question Him. Offer him the salt of penitence. He will give you back the bread of eternal life. He is all merciful. That is all you need to know.
All I ever wanted was to sing to Him. That's His doing, isn't it? He gave me that longing  then made me mute. Why? Tell me that. If He didn't want me to serve Him with music, why implant the desire, like a lust in my body, then deny me the talent? Go on, tell me! Speak for Him!
My son, no one can speak for God.
Oh? I thought you did so every day. So speak now. Answer me!
I do not claim to unravel the mysteries. I treasure them. As you should.
Oh yes, yes, yes, yes, yes! Always the same stale answers! There is no God of Mercy, Father. Just a God of torture.
What?
His funeral  imagine it! The Cathedral, all Vienna sitting there. His coffin, Mozart's little coffin in the middle. And suddenly in that silence, music. A divine music bursts out over them all, a great Mass of Death: Requiem Mass for Wolfgang Mozart, composed by his devoted friend Antonio Salieri. What sublimity! What depth! What passion in the music! Salieri has been touched by God at last. And God, forced to listen. Powerless  powerless to stop it. I at the end, for once, laughing at Him. Do you understand? Do you?
Yes.
The only thing that worried me was the actual killing. How does one do that? How does one kill a man? It's one thing to dream about it. It's very different when you have to do it, with your own hands.
Why? Why? Why? Why add to your misery by confessing to murder? You didn't kill him.
I did.
No, you didn't!
I poisoned his life.
But not his body.
What difference does that make?
My son, why should you want all Vienna to believe you a murderer? Is that your penance? Is it?
No, Father. From now on no one will be able to speak of Mozart without thinking of me. Whenever they say Mozart with love, they'll have to say Salieri with loathing. And that's my immortality  at last! Our names will be tied together for eternity  his in fame and mine in infamy. At least it's better than the total oblivion he'd planned for me, your merciful God!
Oh my son, my poor son!
Don't pity me. Pity yourself. You serve a wicked God. He killed Mozart, not I. Took him, snatched him away, without pity. He destroyed His beloved rather than let a mediocrity like me get the smallest share in his glory. He doesn't care. Understand that. God cares nothing for the man He denies and nothing either for the man He uses. He broke Mozart in half when He'd finished with him, and threw him away. Like an old, worn out flute.
I don't think it was really decided, Director.
Oh, German! German! Please let it be German.
My dear fellow, the language is not finally the point. Do you really think that subject is quite appropriate for a national theatre?
Why not? It's charming. I mean, I don't actually show concubines exposing their! their! It's not indecent! It's highly moral, Majesty. It's full of proper German virtues. I swear it. Absolutely!
Well done, Mozart. Really quite fine.
Baron!
Mozart 
Sire, only opera can do this. In a play, if more than one person speaks at the same time, it's just noise. No one can understand a word. But with music, with music you can have twenty individuals all talking at once, and it's not noise  it's a perfect harmony. Isn't that marvelous?
Mozart, music is not the issue here. No one doubts your talent. It is your judgment of literature that's in question. Even with the politics taken out, this thing would still remain a vulgar farce. Why waste your spirit on such rubbish? Surely you can choose more elevated themes?
Elevated? What does that mean? Elevated! The only thing a man should elevate is  oh, excuse me. I'm sorry. I'm stupid. But I am fed up to the teeth with elevated things! Old dead legends! How can we go on forever writing about gods and legends?
Because they do. They go on forever  at least what they represent. The eternal in us, not the ephemeral. Opera is here to ennoble us. You and me, just as much as His Majesty.
What is this, Herr Chamberlain?
What is what?
Why do I have to submit samples of my work to some stupid committee? Just to teach a sixteenyearold girl.
Because His Majesty wishes it.
Is the Emperor angry with me?
On the contrary.
Then why doesn't he simply appoint me to the post?
Mozart, you are not the only composer in Vienna.
No, but I'm the best.
A little modesty would suit you better.
Who is on this committee?
Kapellmeister Bonno, Count Orsini Rosenberg and Court Composer Salieri.
Naturally, the Italians! Of course! Always the Italians!
Mozart 
They hate my music. It terrifies them. The only sound Italians understand is banality. Tonic and dominant, tonic and dominant, from here to Resurrection! Baba! Baba! Baba! Baba! Anything else is morbid.
Mozart 
Show them one interesting modulation and they faint. Ohime! Morbidezza! Morbidezza! Italians are musical idiots and you want them to judge my music!
Look, young man, the issue is simple. If you want this post, you must submit your stuff in the same way as all your colleagues.
Must I? Well, I won't! I tell you straight: I will not!
Herr Mozart 
May I just do that, Majesty? Show you how it begins? Just that?
Oh? Have I seen it?
I  I don't think you have, Herr Director. Not yet. I mean, it's quite n  Of course, I'll show it to you immediately.
I think you'd better.
You mean in Turkey?
Exactly.
Then why especially does it have to be in German?
Well not especially. It can be in Turkish, if you really want. I don't care.
What you think, Mozart, is scarcely the point. It is what His Majesty thinks that counts.
But, Your Majesty 
That will do, Herr Mozart!
Just let me tell you how it begins.
Mozart! Herr Mozart, may I have a word with you please. Right away.
Certainly, Herr Director.
Did you not know that His Majesty has expressly forbidden ballet in his operas?
Yes, but this is not a ballet. This is a dance at Figaro's wedding.
Exactly. A dance.
But surely the Emperor didn't mean to prohibit dancing when it's part of the story.
It is dangerous for you to interpret His Majesty's edicts. Give me your score, please.
What are you doing, Herr Director?
Taking out what you should never have put in.
Can we see the scene with the music back, please?
Oh yes, certainly. Certainly, Herr Director!
I know your work well, Signore. Do you know I actually composed some variations on a melody of yours?
Really?
Mio caro Adone.
Ah!
A funny little tune, but it yielded some good things.
Love, Sire!
Ah, love! Well of course in Italy we know nothing about that.
Yes! yes! er, on the whole, yes, Majesty.
But this is absurd!
Dear Mozart, my sincere congratulations.
Did you like it, then?
How could I not?
It really is the best music one can hear in Vienna today. Don't you agree?
Herr Mozart, what brings you here?
Your Excellency, you requested some specimens of my work. Here they are. I don't have to tell you how much I need your help. I truly appreciate your looking at these. I have pressures on me  financial pressures. As you know, I'm a married man now.
So you are. How is your pretty wife?
She is well. She is  well, actually, I'm about to become a father! She only told me last night. You are the first to know.
I'm flattered. And congratulations to you, of course.
So you see, this post is very important to me right now.
Why didn't you come to me yesterday, Mozart? This is a most painful situation. Yesterday I could have helped you. Today, I can't.
Why? Here is the music. It's here. I am submitting it humbly. Isn't that what you wanted?
I have just come from the palace. The post has been filled.
Filled? That's impossible! They haven't even seen my work. I need this post. Please, can't you help me? Please!
My dear Mozart, there is no one in the world I would rather help, but now it is too late.
Whom did they choose?
Herr Sommer.
Sommer? Herr Sommer? But the man's a fool! He's a total mediocrity.
No, no, no: he has yet to achieve mediocrity.
But I can't lose this post, I simply can't! Excellency, please. Let's go to the palace, and you can explain to the Emperor that Herr Sommer is an awful choice. He could actually do musical harm to the Princess!
An implausible idea. Between you and me, no one in the world could do musical harm to the Princess Elizabeth.
Look, I must have pupils. Without pupils I can't manage.
You don't mean to tell me you are living in poverty?
No, but I'm broke. I'm always broke. I don't know why.
It has been said, my friend, that you are inclined to live somewhat above your means.
How can anyone say that? We have no cook, no maid. We have no footman. Nothing at all!
How is that possible? You give concerts, don't you? I hear they are quite successful.
They're stupendously successful. You can't get a seat. The only problem is none will hire me. They all want to hear me play, but they won't let me teach their daughters. As if I was some kind of fiend. I'm not a fiend!
Of course not.
Do you have a daughter?
I'm afraid not.
Well, could you lend me some money till you have one? Then I'll teach her for free. That's a promise. Oh, I'm sorry. I'm being silly. Papa's right  I should put a padlock on my mouth. Seriously, is there any chance you could manage a loan? Only for six months, eight at most. After that I'll be the richest man in Vienna. I'll pay you back double. Anything. Name your terms. I'm not joking. I'm working on something that's going to explode like a bomb all over Europe!
Ah, how exciting! Tell me more.
I'd better not. It's a bit of a secret.
Come, come, Mozart; I'm interested. Truly.
Actually, it's a big secret. Oh, this is delicious! What is it?
Cream cheese mixed with granulated sugar and suffused with rum. Crema al Mascarpone.
Ah. Italian?
Forgive me. We all have patriotic feelings of some kind.
Two thousand, two hundred florins is all I need A hundred? Fifty?
What exactly are you working on?
I can't say. Really
I don't think you should become known in Vienna as a debtor, Mozart. However, I know a very distinguished gentleman I could recommend to you. And he has a daughter. Will that do?
Wolfgang, what is it? Sta calmo, per favore. What's the matter?
It's unbelievable! The Director has actually ripped out a huge section of my music. Pages of it.
Really? Why?
I don't know. They say I've got to rewrite the opera, but it's perfect as it is. I can't rewrite what's perfect. Can't you talk to him?
Why bother with OrsiniRosenberg? He's obviously no friend of yours.
Oh, I could kill him! I mean really kill him. I actually threw the entire opera on the fire, he made me so angry!
You burned the score?
Oh no! My wife took it out in time.
How fortunate.
It's not fair that a man like that has power over our work.
But there are those who have power over him. I think I'll take this up with the Emperor.
Oh, Excellency, would you?
With all my heart, Mozart.
Thank you! Oh, thank you.
Nine performances! Nine! That's all it's had  and withdrawn.
I know; it's outrageous. Still, if the public doesn't like one's work one has to accept the fact gracefully.
But what is it they don't like?
Well, I can speak for the Emperor. You made too many demands on the royal ear. The poor man can't concentrate for more than an hour and you gave him four.
What did you think of it yourself? Did you like it at all?
I think it's marvelous. Truly.
It's the best opera yet written. I know it! Why didn't they come?
I think you overestimate our dear Viennese, my friend. Do you know you didn't even give them a good bang at the end of songs so they knew when to clap?
I know, I know. Perhaps you should give me some lessons in that.
I wouldn't presume. All the same, if it wouldn't be imposing, I would like you to see my new piece. It would be a tremendous honour for me.
Oh no, the honour would be all mine.
Grazie, mio caro, Wolfgang!
Grazie, a lei, Signor Antonio!
Mozart. It was good of you to come.
How could I not?
Did my work please you?
How could it not, Excellency?
Yes?
I never knew that music like that was possible.
You flatter me.
Oh no! One hears such sounds and what can one say, but  Salieri!
I have come to commission work from you.
What work?
A Mass for the dead.
What dead? Who is dead?
A man who deserved a Requiem Mass and never got one.
Who are you?
I am only a messenger. Do you accept? You will be paid well.
How much?
How long will you give me?
Work fast. And be sure to tell no one what you do. You will see me again soon.
I don't have it yet. It's not finished. I'm sorry, but I need more time.
Are you neglecting my request?
No, no! I promise you, I'll give you a wonderful piece  the best I ever can!
What happened? Is it over?
I'm taking you home. You're not well.
No, no. I have to get back. I have 
Where is your wife?
Not here! She's not well, either. She went to the Spa.
You mean she's not coming back?
You're so good to me. Truly. Thank you.
No, please.
I mean to come to my opera. You are the only colleague who did.
I would never miss anything that you had written. You must know that.
This is only a vaudeville.
Oh no. It is a sublime piece. The grandest operone. I tell you, you are the greatest composer known to me.
Do you mean that?
I do.
I have bad fancies. I don't sleep well anymore. Then I drink too much, and think stupid things.
Are you ill?
The doctor thinks I am. But 
What?
I'm too young to be so sick.
Shall I answer it?
No! No, it's him!
Who?
The man. He's here.
What man?
Wait! Ask him if he'd give me some money now. Tell him if he would, that would help me finish it.
Finish what?
He knows. He knows!
Another? But that's too soon! Tomorrow night? It's impossible! Did he say a hundred?
Yes. Can I  could I help you, in any way?
Would you? Actually, you could.
My dear friend, it would be my greatest pleasure.
But you'd have to swear not to tell a soul. I'm not allowed.
Of course.
You know, it's all here in my head. It's just ready to be set down. But when I'm dizzy like this my eyes won't focus. I can't write.
Then, let us try together. I'd regard it as such an honour. Tell me, what is this work?
A Mass. A Mass for the Dead.
Where did I stop?
The end of the Recordare  Statuens in parte dextra.
So now the Confutatis. Confutatis Maledictis. When the wicked are confounded. Flammis acribus addictis. How would you translate that?
Consigned to flames of woe.
Do you believe in it?
What?
A fire which never dies. Burning one forever?
Oh, yes.
Strange!
Come. Let's begin.
Confutatis Maledictis.
We ended in F Major?
Yes.
So now  A minor. Suddenly.
The Fire.
What time?
Common time.
Start with the voices. Basses first. Second beat of the first measure  A. Confutatis. Second measure, second beat. Maledictis. Gsharp, of course.
Yes.
Third measure, second beat starting on E. Flammis acribus addictis. And fourth measure, fourth beat  D. Maledictis, flammis acribus ad dictis. Do you have that?
I think so.
Sing it back.
Good. Now the tenors. Fourth beat of the first measure  C. Confutatis. Second measure, fourth beat on D. Maledictis. All right?
Yes.
Fourth measure, second beat  F. Flammis acribus addictis, flam mis acribus addictis.
Now the orchestra. Second bassoon and bass trombone with the basses. Identical notes and rhythm. The first bassoon and tenor trombone 
Please! Just one moment.
It couldn't be simpler.
First bassoon and tenor trombone  what?
With the tenors.
Also identical?
Exactly. The instruments to go with the voices. Trumpets and timpani, tonic and dominant.
And that's all?
Oh no. Now for the Fire. Strings in unison  ostinato on all  like this.
Do you have me?
I think so.
Show me.
That's wonderful!
Yes, yes  go on. The Voca Me. Suddenly sotto voce. Write that down: sotto voce, pianissimo. Voca me cum benedictis. Call me among the blessed.
C Major. Sopranos and altos in thirds. Altos on C. Sopranos above. Voca, voca me, voca me cum bene dictis.
Sopranos up to F on the second 'Voca'?
Yes, and on 'dictis'.
Yes!
And that's it. Do you have it?
You go fast!
Do you have it?
Yes.
Then let me hear it. All of it. The whole thing from the beginning  now!
Do you want to rest a bit?
Oh no. I'm not tired at all.
We'll stop for just a moment. Then we'll do the Lacrimosa.
I can keep going, I assure you. Shall we try?
Would you stay with me while I sleep a little?
I'm not leaving you.
I am so ashamed.
What for?
I was foolish. I thought you did not care for my work  or me. Forgive me. Forgive me!
Quiet! Quiet! Quiet! Down there, damn you. Welcome to you. Pay no attention, they're impossible. Stop it, you willful things! Come this way. Just ignore them. They're perfectly harmless, just willful. I treat them just like my own children.
And which one of them do you want me to teach?
What? Haha! That's funny  I like it. Which one, eh? You're a funny fellow. Hannah! Come this way.
You won't be teaching this one either. She's my wife.
Madame.
This is Herr Mozart, my dear. The young man Herr Salieri recommended to teach our Gertrude. Where is she?
I'm afraid I am.
Of course, it's him. Who do you think it is?
Good morning, Fraulein Schlumberg.
Strudel, this is Herr Mozart. Say good morning.
Never mind, Strudel. It's part of music, getting used to an audience. Aren't I right, Herr Mozart?
Well, yes! on the whole. I suppose. How long have you been playing, Fraulein?
It's a miracle, Herr Mozart!
Well, I'm a good teacher. The next time you wish me to instruct another of your dogs, please let me know. Goodbye, Fraulein, goodbye, Madame! goodbye, Sir!
Herr Mozart. What a surprise. What can I do for you?
Is my pupil still anxious to learn the art of music?
Well, your pupil is married and living in Mannheim, young man.
Really? Perhaps your dear wife might care to profit from my instruction?
What is this, Mozart? What's the matter with you?
Well. Since it appears nobody is eager to hire my services, could you favour me with a little money instead?
What for?
If a man cannot earn, he must borrow.
Well, this is hardly the way to go about it.
No doubt, sir. But I am endowed with talent, and you with money. If I offer mine, you should offer yours.
I'm sorry. No.
Please. I'll give it back, I promise. Please, sir.
My answer is no, Mozart.
Sssh!
StanziManziBanziWanzi!
Sssh! Stay here.
What did he say? What did he say?
Papa, the rule is you can only give penalties that can be performed in the room.
Well?
Sublime! Utterly sublime!
That kind of music should be punishable by death.
Wonderful! He liked the monkey, didn't you?
Yes, well, it's all good fun.
I liked the horse.
Isn't he marvelous? He cost me a bundle, that horse, but he's worth it. I tell you, if you'd played Don Giovanni here it would have been a great success. I'm not joking. These people aren't fools. You could do something marvelous for them.
I'd like to try them someday. I'm not sure I'd be much good at it.
'Course you would. You belong here, my boy, not the snobby Court. You could do anything you felt like here  the more fantastic the better! That's what people want, you know: fantasy. You do a big production, fill it with beautiful magic tricks and you'll be absolutely free to do anything you want. Of course, you'd have to put a fire in it, because I've got the best fire machine in the city and a big flood  I can do you the finest water effects you ever saw in your life. Oh, and a few trick animals. You'd have to use those.
Animals?
I tell you I picked up a snake in Dresden last week  twelve foot long  folds up to six inches, just like a paper fan. It's a miracle.
I'm serious. You write a proper part for me with a couple of catchy songs, I'll guarantee you'll have a triumph deluxe. Mind you, it'll have to be in German.
German!
Of course! What else do you think they speak here?
No, no, I love that. I'd want it to be in German. I haven't done anything in German since Seraglio.
So there you are. What do you say?
Leave that alone!
Wolfi!
Put it down!
What is this?
Put it down, I said! It's nothing for you.
Oh! I'm sorry! I'm sorry! What have you got for me? Is it finished?
What?
What? The vaudeville, what'd you think?
Yes.
Can I see it?
No.
Why not?
Because there's nothing to see.
Look, I asked you if we could start rehearsal next week and you said yes.
Well, we can.
So let me see it. Where is it?
Yes?
Are you Herr Mozart?
That's right.
My name is Lorl, sir. I'm a maidservant. I was asked to come here and offer my services to you.
What?
They'll be paid for by a great admirer or yours who wishes to remain anon  anonymous.
Are you saying that someone is paying you to be our maid and doesn't want us to know who he is?
Yes. I can live in or out just as you wish.
Ah! Here she comes. Fraulein Lorl, good morning.
Good morning, sir.
What have you got for me today? Let me see.
Ahha! Siena macaroons  my favourites. Give my best thanks to the baker.
I will, sir.
Thank you. Are you well today, Fraulein Lorl?
Yes, thank you, sir.
Bene! Bene!
Madame Cavalieri is here for her lesson, sir.
Bene.
Oh, thank you, sir.
Do any pupils come to the house?
Not that I've seen.
Then how does he pay for all this? Does he work at all?
Oh, yes, sir, all day long. He never leaves the house until evening. He just sits there, writing and writing. He doesn't even eat.
Really? What is it he's writing?
Oh, I wouldn't know that, sir.
Of course not. You're a good girl. You're very kind to do this. Next time you're sure they'll be out of the house, let me know, will you?
I think I've found out about the money, sir.
Yes what?
Where does he work?
In there, sir.
Now calm yourself. Calm. What's the matter with you?
I'm leaving. I'm not working there anymore. I'm scared!
Why? What has happened?
You don't know what it's like. Herr Mozart frightens me. He drinks all day, then takes all that medicine and it makes him worse.
What medicine?
I don't know. He has pains.
Where?
Here, in his stomach. They bend him right over.
Is he working?
I'm frightened, sir. Really! When he speaks, he doesn't make any sense. You know he said he saw  he said he saw his father. And his father's dead.
Is he working?
I suppose so. He sits there all he time, doing some silly opera.
Opera? Opera!
Please don't ask me to go back again. I'm frightened! I'm very, very frightened.
Are you sure it's an opera?
I write to you with urgent news. I am coming to Vienna. Take no further steps toward marriage until we meet. You are too gullible to see your own danger. As you honour the father who has devoted his entire life to yours, do as I bid, and await my coming.
I will.
Why are you here?
Am I not welcome?
Of course, welcome! Welcome ten thousand times. Papa! my Papa!
Feed? Well, of course she feeds me. She stuffs me like a goose all day long. She's the best cook in the world. I mean, since Mama. Just wait, you'll see.
Is she not here?
I don't know. Stanzi? Stanzi!
Do you always live like this?
Oh, yes. Oh, I mean no  not exactly like this. I mean today  just today, Stanzi  I remember now. She had to go  yes! She had to help her mother. Yes, she's like that. Her mother's a very sweet woman, you'll see.
She's very tired, poor creature. You know me: I'm a real pig. It's not so easy cleaning up after me.
Don't you have a maid?
Oh we could, if we wanted to, but Stanzi won't hear of it. She wants to do everything herself.
How is your financial situation?
It couldn't be better.
That's not what I hear.
What do you mean? It's wonderful. Really, it's  it's marvelous! People love me here.
They say you're in debt.
Who? Who says that? Now that's a malicious lie!
How many pupils do you have?
Pupils?
Yes.
Yes.
How many?
I don't know. It's not important. I mean, I don't want pupils. They get in the way. I've got to have time for composition.
Composition doesn't pay. You know that.
This one will.
What's that?
Oh, let's not talk about it.
Why not?
It's a secret.
You don't have secrets from me.
It's too dangerous, Papa. But they're going to love it. Ah, there she is!
Isn't that marvelous? We're delighted.
Why didn't you mention it in your letters?
Didn't I? I thought I did. I'm sure I did.
Thank you. That'll be fine. Don't spend any money on me.
Why not? Oh, come, Papa! What better way could I spend it than on you? My kissable, missable, suddenly visible Papa!
No, really!
This is just a game, Papa.
Yes, Papa, name it. Name it. I'll do anything you say!
I want you to come back with me to Salzburg, my son.
I'm tired of this game. Please play without me.
But my penalty. I've got to have a penalty.
Papa, is this your idea?
Mine?
Are you playing a trick on me?
I never saw this girl in my life. Is this a kind of joke?
Never mind. You won't have to do anything for me ever again. I'm leaving!
Papa!
Don't worry, I'm not staying here to be a burden.
No one calls you that.
She does. She says I sleep all day.
Father 
Hush! I'm talking to His Majesty. Your Majesty, I wish to express only one thing  that you who are the Father of us all, could teach our children the gratitude they owe to fathers. It is not for nothing that the Fifth Commandment tells us: 'Honour your Father and Mother, that your days may be long upon the earth.'
Ahha. Well then, we should make some effort to acquire him. We could use a good German composer in Vienna, surely?
I agree, Majesty, but I'm afraid it's not possible. The young man is still in the pay of the Archbishop.
Very small pay, I imagine. I'm sure he could be tempted with the right offer. Say, an opera in German for our National Theatre.
Ahha. What do you say, Chamberlain?
In my opinion, it is time we had a piece in our own language, sir. Plain German. For plain people.
Yes, sir.
Well. There it is.
Well, what do you have for me today?
Your Majesty, Herr Mozart 
Yes, what about him?
He's here.
Ahha. Well. There it is. Good.
Your Majesty!
No, no, please! It is not a holy relic. You know we have met already? In this very room. Perhaps you won't remember it, you were only six years old. He was giving the most brilliant little concert here. As he got off the stool, he slipped and fell. My sister Antoinette helped him up herself, and do you know what he did? Jumped straight into her arms and said, Will you marry me, yes or no?
Oh, thank you.
The Director of our Opera. Count OrsiniRosenberg.
Oh sir, yes! The honour is mine. Absolutely.
And now he has returned the compliment. Herr Salieri composed that March of Welcome for you.
Really? Oh, grazie, Signore! Sono commosso! E un onore per mo eccezionale. Compositore brilliante e famossissimo!
Majesty!
Did we vote in the end for German or Italian?
Why so?
Because I've already found the most wonderful libretto!
Well, what is it about? Tell us the story.
It's actually quite amusing, Majesty. It's set  the whole thing is set in a  in a 
Yes, where?
In a Pasha's Harem, Majesty. A Seraglio.
Ahha.
Keep it, Sire, if you want to. It is already here in my head.
What? On one hearing only?
I think so, Sire, yes.
It is new, it is, isn't it, Sire?
Yes, indeed.
And German?
Oh, yes. Absolutely. German. Unquestionably!
So then you like it? You really like it, Your Majesty?
Of course I do. It's very good. Of course now and then  just now and then  it gets a touch elaborate.
What do you mean, Sire?
Well, I mean occasionally it seems to have, how shall one say? How shall one say, Director?
I don't understand. There are just as many notes, Majesty, as are required. Neither more nor less.
My dear fellow, there are in fact only so many notes the ear can hear in the course of an evening. I think I'm right in saying that, aren't I, Court Composer?
My dear, young man, don't take it too hard. Your work is ingenious. It's quality work. And there are simply too many notes, that's all. Cut a few and it will be perfect.
Which few did you have in mind, Majesty?
Majesty, this is Madame Weber. She is my landlady.
Enchanted, Madame.
Really? How delightful. May I ask when you marry?
Well  Well we haven't quite received my father's consent, Your Majesty. Not entirely. Not altogether.
Excuse me, but how old are you?
Twentysix.
Well, my advice is to marry this charming young lady and stay with us in Vienna.
Bravo, Mozart. Most charming. Yes, indeed. Clever man.
Thank you, Sire!
Majesty, may I ask you to do me the greatest favour?
What is it?
May I introduce my father? He is on a short visit here and returning very soon to Salzburg. He would so much like to kiss your hand. It would make his whole stay so memorable for him.
Ah! By all means.
Mozart, are you aware I have declared the French play of Figaro unsuitable for our theatre?
Yes, Sire.
Yet we hear you are making an opera from it. Is this true?
Who told you this, Majesty?
It is not your place to ask questions. Is it true?
Well, yes, I admit it is.
Would you tell me why?
Well, Majesty, it is only a comedy.
Mozart, I am a tolerant man. I do not censor things lightly. When I do, I have good reason. Figaro is a bad play. It stirs up hatred between the classes. In France it has caused nothing but bitterness. My own dear sister Antoinette writes me that she is beginning to be frightened of her own people. I do not wish to see the same fears starting here.
Sire, I swear to Your Majesty, there's nothing like that in the story. I have taken out everything that could give offense. I hate politics.
I think you are rather innocent, my friend. In these dangerous times I cannot afford to provoke our nobles or our people simply over a theatre piece.
But, Majesty, this is just a frolic. It's a piece about love.
Ah, love again.
But it's new, it's entirely new. It's so new, people will go mad for it. For example, I have a scene in the second act  it starts as a duet, just a man and wife quarreling. Suddenly the wife's scheming little maid comes in unexpectedly  a very funny situation. Duet turns into trio. Then the husband's equally screaming valet comes in. Trio turns into quartet. Then a stupid old gardener  quartet becomes quintet, and so on. On and on, sextet, septet, octet! How long do you think I can sustain that?
I have no idea.
Guess! Guess, Majesty. Imagine the longest time such a thing could last, then double it.
Well, six or seven minutes! maybe eight!
Twenty, sire! How about twenty? Twenty minutes of continuous music. No recitatives.
Forgive me, Majesty. I'm a vulgar man. But I assure you, my music is not.
You are passionate, Mozart! But you do not persuade.
Sire, the whole opera is finished. Do you know how much work went into it?
I think it is an interesting notion to keep Mozart in Vienna, Majesty. It should really infuriate the Archbishop beyond measure  if that is your Majesty's intention.
You are cattivo, Court Composer. I want to meet this young man. Chamberlain, arrange a pleasant welcome for him.
What a charming idea. May I see?
It's just a trifle, of course.
May I try it?
Majesty.
Delightful, Court Composer. Would you permit me to play it as he comes in?
You do me too much honour, Sire.
Let's have some fun. Bring in Herr Mozart, please. But slowly, slowly. I need a minute to practice.
Aflat, Majesty.
Ahha!
And here is our illustrious Court Composer, Herr Salieri.
Finally! Such an immense joy. Diletto straordinario!
My pleasure.
Well, there it is. Now to business. Young man, we are going to commission an opera from you. What do you say?
Well, I'm glad to hear that.
Excuse me, Sire, but what do you think these could be? Being a foreigner, I would love to learn.
Cattivo again, Court Composer. Well, tell him, Mozart. Name us a German virtue.
Good morning, Court Composer. This is my niece, the Princess Elizabeth.
Your Highness.
Oh, Your Majesty, it would be such a tremendous honour!
I'm thinking about Herr Mozart. What is your view?
An interesting idea, Majesty. But 
Yes?
You already commissioned an opera from Mozart.
And the result satisfies.
Yes, of course. My concern is to protect you from any suspicion of favouritism.
Ahha. Favouritism. But I so want Mozart.
I'm sure there is a way, Majesty. Some kind of a little contest. I could perhaps put together a small Committee, and I could see to it naturally that it will select according to Your Majesty's wishes.
You please me, Court Composer. A very clever idea.
Sire.
Well. There it is.
I don't think you understand me, Court Composer.
Majesty, I did. Believe me, it was a most agonizing. decision. But finally, I simply could not recommend Herr Mozart.
Why not?
Well, Sire, I made some inquiries in a routine way. I was curious to know why he had so few pupils. It is rather alarming.
Oh?
Majesty, I don't like to talk against a fellow musician.
Of course not.
I have to tell you, Mozart is not entirely to be trusted alone with young ladies.
Really?
As a matter of fact, one of my own pupils  a very young singer  told me she was  er  well!
Yes?
Molested, Majesty. Twice, in the course of the same lesson.
Do you like this, Salieri?
It is not a question of liking, Your Majesty. Your own law decrees it, I'm afraid.
Well, look at them.
Really?
Ah, now! Here she comes.
Perhaps a little refreshment first? A little coffee, or a little chocolate?
I'd like a little wine, if you have it.
Wine?
Just one year.
Who was your teacher?
I was. But she quite outgrew the little I could show her.
Thank you, Madame. Come on now  courage. Play me something you know.
Upstairs.
Gertrude!
You can't be Herr Mozart!
I've heard about you for ages! I thought you must be an old man.
Gertrude!
It's such an honour for us to have you here, Herr Mozart. And for Gertrude.
People who know say the girl's got talent. You must judge for yourself. If you think she stinks, say so.
Michael, please! I'm sure you will find her most willing, Herr Mozart. She's really very excited. She's been preparing all morning.
I said play!
Michael!
What a strange young man.
Yes. He is a little strange.
Let us pass, please! Let us pass at once! We're with the Emperor.
I am sorry, Madame. It is not permitted.
Do you know who I am? This is my daughter. I am Frau Weber. We are favoured guests!
I am sorry, Madame, but I have my orders.
Call Herr Mozart! You call Herr Mozart immediately! This is insupportable!
I am sorry, Madame, but no! I cannot let anyone pass.
Young man, I am no stranger to theatres. I'm no stranger to insolence!
Be careful!
Be careful!
He's adorable!
Adorable!
Behold!
Behold!
Hey!
Hey!
Behold!
Behold!
I see that you're expecting.
Oh, yes.
When, may I ask?
In three months! Papa.
What is ridiculous? Wolfi has many admirers in Vienna. They love him here. People send us gifts all the time.
But you can't take her without reference. It's unheard of!
Well, this is none of your business. Whoever sent you is going to pay, no?
And so you do! The only time you come out is to eat.
And what do you expect? Who wants to walk out into a mess like this every day?
Oh, now I'm a bad housekeeper!
So you are! The place is a pigsty all the time.
Do you hear him? Do you?
How much will you pay him?
Ah. Well. Ah, I see you've got your manager with you. Well, Madame, how about half the receipts?
Am I interrupting something?
Not at all.
Where's our friend?
He's not in. But he's working on it. He said to tell you.
I hope so. I need it immediately.
Look, you little clown, do you know how many people I've hired for you? Do you know how many people are waiting?
Leave him alone!
I'm paying these people. Do you realize that?
He's doing his best.
I'm paying people just to wait for you. It's ridiculous!
You know what's ridiculous? Your libretto, that's what's ridiculous. Only an idiot would ask Wolfi to work on that stuff!
Oh yes? And what's so intelligent about writing a Requiem?
Money! Money!
You're mad! She's mad, Wolfi.
Oh yes, and who are you? He's worked for Kings. For the Emperor. Who are you?
Excellency!
Madame. How can I help you?
Frau Mozart?
That's right, Your Excellency. I've come on behalf of my hus band. I'm  I'm bringing some samples of his work so he can be considered for the royal appointment.
How charming. But why did he not come himself?
He's terribly busy, sir.
I understand.
I will look at them, of course, the moment I can. It will be an honour. Please give him my warmest.
Would it be too much trouble, sir, to ask you to look at them now? While I wait.
I'm afraid I'm not at leisure this very moment. Just leave them with me. I assure you they will be quite safe.
I  I really cannot do that, Your Excellency. You see, he doesn't know I'm here.
Really?
My husband is a proud man, sir. He would be furious if he knew I'd come.
Then he didn't send you?
No, sir. This is my own idea.
I see.
Sir, we really need this job. We're desperate. My husband spends far more than he can ever earn. I don't mean he's lazy  he's not at all  he works all day long. It's just! he's not practical. Money simply slips through his fingers, it's really ridiculous, Your Excellency. I know you help musicians. You're famous for it. Give him just this one post. We'd be forever indebted!
Thank you very much, Your Excellency.
Don't keep calling me that. It puts me at such a distance. I was not born a Court Composer, you know. I'm from a small town, just like your husband.
Are you sure you can't leave that music, and come back again? I have other things you might like.
That's very tempting, but it's impossible, I'm afraid. Wolfi would be frantic if he found those were missing. You see, they're all originals.
Originals?
Yes.
These are originals?
Yes, sir. He doesn't make copies.
It is miraculous.
Oh yes. He's really proud of his work.
Tomorrow night I dine with the Emperor. One word from me and the post is his.
Oh, thank you, sir!
Come back tonight.
Tonight?
Alone.
What for?
Some service deserves service in return. No?
What do you mean?
Isn't it obvious?
It's a post all Vienna seeks. If you want it for your husband, come tonight.
But! I'm a married woman!
Then don't. It's up to you. Not to be vague, that is the price.
I do apologize for this afternoon. I behaved like a silly girl. Where shall we go?
What?
Should we stay here? It's a charming room. I love these candlesticks. Were they here earlier? I didn't notice them I suppose I was too nervous.
What are you doing here?
Your husband is ill, ma'am. He took sick. I brought him home.
Why you?
I was at hand.
Well, thank you very much. You can go now.
He needs me, ma'am.
No, he doesn't. And I don't want you here. Just go, please.
He asked me to stay.
And I'm asking you 
This is not his handwriting.
No. I was assisting him. He asked me.
He's not going to work on this anymore. It is making him ill. Please.
I regret we have no servants to show you out, Herr Salieri. Respect my wish and go.
Madame, I will respect his. He asked me to stay here.
Stop it!
I am! I am! I'm stopping it  slowly. You see! Look, I've stopped. Now we are going back.
No! No! No!
Yes! Back! Back! Listen  don't you know where you are?
Where?
We are in the Residence of the Fartsbishop of Salzburg.
Fartsbishop!
Your Grace, I've got something to tell you. I want to complain about this man.
Go ahead, tell him. Tell them all. They won't understand you anyway.
Why not?
Because here everything goes backwards. People walk backwards, dance backwards, sing backwards, and talk backwards.
That's stupid.
Why? People fart backwards.
Do you think that's funny?
Yes, I think it's brilliant. You've been doing it for years.
Oh, ha, ha, ha.
SraI'msick! SraI'm sick!
Yes, you are. You're very sick.
No, no. Say it backwards, shitwit. SraI'msick Say it backwards!
SraI'msick. Sick  kiss I'm  my Kiss my! SraI'msick  Kiss my arse!
Em iram! Em iram!
No, I'm not playing this game.
No, this is serious. Say it backwards.
No!
Just say it  you'll see. It's very serious. Em iram! Em iram!
Iram  marry Em  marry me! No, no! You're a fiend. I'm not going to marry a fiend. A dirty fiend at that.
Uivolitub!
Tub  but itub  but I vol  love but I love ui  You. I love you!
TishI'm tee. What's that?
What?
TishI'mtee.
Eat
Yes.
Eat my  ah!
Excuse me, Wolfi. Mama is not feeling very well. Can we leave now?
Of course.
I think you're mad! You're really mad!
Oh, leave me alone.
One royal pupil and the whole of Vienna will come flocking. We'd be set up for life!
They'll come anyway. They love me here.
No, they will not. I know how things work in this city.
Oh yes? You always know everything.
Well, I'm not borrowing any more money from my mother, and that's that!
You borrowed money from your mother?
Yes!
Well, don't do that again!
How are we going to live, Wolfi? Do you want me to go into the streets and beg?
Don't be stupid.
All they want to see is your work. What's wrong with that?
Shut up! Just shut up! I don't need them.
This isn't pride. It's sheer stupidity!
Stop it now. Stop it. I've brought some friends to meet you. They're next door waiting. Do we have anything to eat? They're all starving.
Tell them to go away. I don't want to see anybody.
What's the matter with you?
Tell them to go!
Sssh. What is it? Tell me.
No!
Yes!
I love you! I love you!
My Stanzi  look at her! Isn't she beautiful? Come on now, confess, Papa. Could you want a prettier girl for a daughter?
Stop it, Wolfi. I look dreadful. Welcome to our house, Herr Mozart.
He's not Herr Mozart. Call him Papa.
May I offer you some tea, Herr Mozart?
Tea? Who wants tea? Let's go out! This calls for a feast. You don't want tea, Papa. Let's go dancing. Papa loves parties, don't you?
Wolfi!
What? How can you be so boring? Tea!
Wolfi, I think your father's tired. I'll cook us something here.
There's a young girl to see you.
What does she want?
I don't know.
Well, ask her!
She won't talk to me. She says she has to speak to you.
Oh, damn!
Look, old man, you stay out of this. We spend a fortune on you, more than we can possibly afford, and all you do is criticize, morning to night. And then you think you can 
Stanzi!
No, it's right he should hear. I'm sick to death of it. We can't do anything right for you, can we?
We'll have a little party. Come in. Come in. You know Herr Schikaneder? This is! a very nice girl.
Wolfi.
Yes, my love?
These gentlemen are from Salzburg.
Salzburg. We were just talking about Salzburg. If you've come from my friend the Fartsbishop, you've arrived at just the right moment. Because I've got good news for him. I'm done with Vienna. It's over, finished, done with! Done with! Done with!
Wolfi! Your father is dead.
What?
Your father is dead.
Half the receipts! Stanzi!
I'm talking about now. How much will you give him now? Down payment?
You're not going to do this?
Why not? Half the house!
When? We need money now. Either he pays now, or you don't do it.
Oh, Stanzi.
I don't trust this man. And I didn't like what he did with your opera. It was common.
Well, you liked it, didn't you? Monkeyflunkipunki.
Half the house! You'll never see a penny. I want it here, in my hand.
Stanzimanzi, I'll put it in your hand!
Shut up! I'll not let you put anything in my hand until I see some money.
Who was that?
No one.
I heard voices.
What's that? Oh! Who gave you this? How much is it? Wolfi, who gave you this?
I'm not telling you.
Why not?
You'd think I was mad.
No. Don't answer it!
Why?
This is my wife, Stanzi. I've been sick, but I'm all right now. Aren't I?
Oh yes, sir. He's all right. And he's working on it very hard.
Give me two more weeks. Please.
Give me one reason I can understand.
I can't write it!
Why not?
It's killing me.
Go back to bed.
Please! Let me sit here. Let me stay here with you. I promise I won't say all word. I'll just be here, so you know no one's going to hurt you. Please, please!
What is it?
I want to go!
Where?
I want to go back to Vienna.
Now?
Yes!
Why?
I feel wrong. I feel wrong being here.
What are you talking about?
Don Giovannnnnnnni!
Who the devil are you? What do you want?
I've come to dinnnnnner!
Dinner? How dare you? I am a nobleman. I only dine with people of my own height.
Are you drunk? You invited me. And my horse. Here he is. Ottavio!
In the pot, I have got a good dinner. Not a sausage or stew, but a singer. Not a sausage or stew but a singer. Is the treat that I'll eat for my meat!
Oh shut up. I'm sick to death of that tune.
Why what, sir?
Why do I have to be humiliated in front of my guests by one of my own servants?
Humiliated?
How much provocation am I to endure from you? The more license I allow you, the more you take.
If His Grace is not satisfied with me, he can dismiss me.
I wish you to return immediately to Salzburg. Your father is waiting for you there patiently. I will speak to you further when I come.
No, Your Grace! I mean with all humility, no. I would rather you dismissed me. It's obvious I don't satisfy.
Then try harder, Mozart. I have no intention of dismissing you. You will remain in my service and learn your place. Go now.
No! I won't have him back.
But he needs to be here in Salzburg, Your Grace. He needs me and he needs you. Your protection, your understanding.
Hardly.
Oh sir, yes! He's about to make the worst mistake of his life. Some little Viennese slut is trying to trick him into marriage. I know my son. He is too simple to see the trap  and there is no one there who really cares for him.
I'm not surprised. Money seems to be more important to him than loyalty or friendship. He has sold himself to Vienna. Let Vienna look out for him.
Sir 
Your son is an unprincipled, spoiled, conceited brat.
Yes, sir, that's the truth. But don't blame him. The fault is mine. I was too indulgent with him. But not again. Never again, I promise! I implore you  let me bring him back here. I'll make him give his word to serve you faithfully.
And how will you make him keep it?
Oh, sir, he's never disobeyed me in anything. Please, Your Grace, give him one more chance.
You have leave to try.
Oh, Your Grace  I thank Your Grace! I thank you!
Katherina! I'll tell you what I'm going to do. I'm going to write another aria for you. Something even more amazing for the second act. I have to get some water. Her mother is lying on the stage.
Don't bother!
What?
Don't bother.
I'll be right back.
Oh  excuse me!
Is her mother still lying on the floor?
No, she's fine.
I'm so relieved.
Is she a good fuck?
What??
I assume she's the virtuoso in that department. There can't be any other reason you'd marry someone like that.
No, no, no, no. You can't take him away now. This is his night. Won't you introduce us, Wolfgang?
Excuse us, Fraulein. Good night, Signore.
Maestro.
Good morning.
Well? How do you like it? It's Turkish. My hairdresser tells me everything's going to be Turkish this year!
Really? What else did he tell you today? Give me some gossip.
Well, I heard you met Herr Mozart.
Oh? News travels fast in Vienna.
And he's been commissioned to write an opera. Is it true?
Yes.
Is there a part for me?
No.
How do you know?
Well even if there is, I don't think you want to get involved with this one.
Why not?
Well, do you know where it's set, my dear?
Where?
In a harem.
What's that?
A brothel.
Oh!
A Turkish brothel.
Turkish? Oh, if it's Turkish, that's different. I want to be in it.
My dear, it will hardly enhance your reputation to be celebrated throughout Vienna as a singing prostitute for a Turk.
Oh. Well perhaps you could introduce us anyway.
Perhaps.
What does he look like?
You might be disappointed.
Why?
Looks and talent don't always go together, Katherina.
Looks don't concern me, Maestro. Only talent interests a woman of taste.
Did you know? Had you heard?
What?
The marriage!
Well, what does it matter to you?
Nothing! He can marry who he pleases. I don't give a damn.
How was I? Tell me honestly.
You were sublime.
What did you think of the music?
Extremely clever.
Meaning you didn't like it.
Follow me, please. The Archbishop would like a word.
Certainly!
Well, I think that went off remarkably well, don't you?
Indeed.
These Viennese certainly know good music when they hear it.
His Grace is very angry with you.
What do you mean?
A sweetheart or a pretty little wife is Papageno's wish. A willing, billing, lovey dovey Would be My most tasty little dish. Be my most tasty little dish! Be my most tasty little dish!
Then that would be eating and drinking I'd live like a Prince without thinking. The wisdom of old would be mine  A woman's much better than wine! Then that would be eating and drinking! The wisdom of old would be mine  A woman's much better than wine. She's much better than wine! She's much better than wine!
A sweetheart or a pretty little wife is Papageno's wish. A willing, billing, lovey dovey Would be My most tasty little dish.
I need to net one birdie only And I will stop feeling so lonely. But if she won't fly to my aid, Then into a ghost I must fade. I need to net one birdie only But if she won't fly to my aid, Then into a ghost I must fade. To a ghost I must fade! To a ghost I must fade!
A sweetheart or a pretty little wife is Papageno's wish. A willing, billing, lovey dovey Would be My most tasty little dish.
At present the girls only peck me. Their cruelty surely will wreck me. But one little beak in my own, And I'll up to heaven be flown! At present the girls only peck me. But one little beak in my own, And I'll up to heaven be flown. Up to heaven be flown! Up to heaven be flown!
Look, I told you...
It did not, however, contain any entries concerning the hostile life form you allegedly picked up.
The analysis team which went over your shuttle centimeter by centimeter found no physical evidence of the creature you describe...
That's because I blew it out the Goddamn airlock! Like I said.
Look, I can see where this is going. But I'm telling you those things exist. Back on that planetoid is an alien ship and on that ship are thousands of eggs. Thousands. Do you understand? I suggest you find it, using the flight recorder's data. Find it and deal with it  before one of your survey teams comes back with a little surprise...
Thank you, Officer Ripley. That will be...
...because just one of those things managed to kill my entire crew, within twelve hours of hatching...
Why won't you check out LV426?
Because I don't have to. The people who live there checked it out years ago and they never reported and 'hostile organism' or alien ship. And by the way, they call it Acheron now.
What are you talking about. What people?
How many colonists?
Sixty, maybe seventy families.
Sweet Jesus.
What did you say?
Newt. My nname's Newt. Nobody calls me Rebecca except my dork brother.
Casey. She's my only friend.
What about me?
I don't want you for a friend.
Why not?
Because you'll be gone soon, like the others. Like everybody. You'll be dead and you'll leave me alone.
They'd be here if they could, honey. I know they would.
They're dead.
Newt. Look at me...Newt. I won't leave you. I promise.
You promise?
Cross my heart.
And hope to die?
I was the best at the game. I knew the whole maze.
The 'maze'? You mean the air ducts?
Yeah, you know. In the walls, under the floor. I was the ace. I could hide better than anybody.
You're really something, ace.
I guess we're not leaving, right?
I'm sorry, Newt.
You don't have to be sorry. It wasn't your fault.
Now you just lie here and have a nap. You're exhausted.
I don't want to...I have scary dreams.
Ripley...she doesn't have bad dreams because she's just a piece of plastic.
Oh. Sorry, Newt.
My mommy always said there were no monsters. No real ones. But there are.
Yes, there are, aren't there.
Why do they tell little kids that?
Well, some kids can't handle it like you can.
Did one of those things grow inside her?
I don't know, Newt. That's the truth.
Isn't that how babies come? I mean people babies...they grow inside you?
No, it's different, honey.
Did you ever have a baby?
Yes. A little girl.
Where is she?
Gone.
You mean dead.
Don't go! Please.
I'll be right in the other room, Newt. And look...I can see you on that camera right up there.
Newt. Newt, wake up.
Wah...? Where are...?
Sssh. Don't move. We're in trouble.
Mommy...I mean, Ripley...I'm scared.
I know, honey. Me too.
Burke! Open the door!
Look!
Come on. Crawl faster.
DO you know how to get to the landing field from here?
Sure. Go left.
This way. Come on, we're almost there!
Newt, wait!
I knew you'd come.
Newt, I want you to hang on, now. Hang on tight.
Mommy...Mommy?
Right here, baby. Right here.
Are we going to sleep now?
That's right.
Can we dream?
Yes, honey. I think we both can.
And how are we today?
Terrible.
Just terrible? That's better than yesterday at least.
How long have I been on Gateway station?
Just a couple of days. Do you feel up to a visitor?
Bad dreams again? Do you want something to help you sleep?
No.. I've slept enough.
You remember you sent some wildcatters out to that plateau, out past the Ilium range, a couple days ago?
Yeah. What?
There's a guy on the horn, momandpop survey team. Says he's homing on something and wants to know if his claim will be honored.
Christ. Some honch in a cushy office on Earth says go look at a grid reference in the middle of nowhere, we look. They don't say why, and I don't ask. I don't ask because it takes two weeks to get an answer out here and the answer's always 'don't ask.'
So what do I tell this guy?
Tell him, as far as I'm concerned, he finds something it's his.
Sounds like you, Hicks.
The embryo, the second form, hosts in the victim's body for several hours. Gestating. Then it... ...then it...emerges. Moults. Grows rapidly 
Looks like it stung him.
Hey...hey! Look, Crowe and Dietrich aren't dead, man.
You can't help them. Right now they're being cocooned just like the others.
Oh, God. Jesus. This ain't happening.
Man, we're not going to make it seventeen hours! Those things are going to come in here, just like they did before, man... they're going to come in here and get us, man, long before...
She survived longer than that with no weapons and no training.
This service tunnel is how they're moving back and forth.
Yeah, right, it runs from the processing station right into the sublevel here.
Thanks.
Uh, what's next?
We need the other dropship. The on one the Sulaco. We have to bring it down on remote, somehow.
How? The transmitter was on the APC. It's wasted.
I don't care how! Think of a way. Think of something.
Think of what? We're fucked.
What about the colony transmitter? That uplink tower down at the other end. Why can't we use that?
Well then somebody's just going to have to go out there. Take a portable terminal and go out there and plug in manually.
Oh, right! Right! With those things running around. No way.
They cut the power.
What do you mean, they cut the power? How could they cut the power, man? They're animals.
This signal's weird...must be some interference or something. There's movement all over the place...
Just get back here!
Range twenty meters.
Seal the door.
Fifteen meters.
I don't know, an acid hole in a duct. Something under the floors, not on the plans. I don't know!
Twelve meters. Man, this is a big fucking signal. Ten meters.
They're right on us. Vasquez, how you doing?
Nine meters. Eight.
Can't be. That's inside the room!
It's readin' right. Look!
Hey, Vasquez...you ever been mistaken for a man?
No. Have you?
Somebody said alien...she thought they said illegal alien and signed up.
Fuck you.
Anytime. Anywhere.
All right, we can't blow the fuck out of them...why not roll some canisters of CN20 down there. Nerve gas the whole nest?
Look, man, let's just bug out and call it even, okay?
Yeah, bullshit. Watch us.
Maybe you haven't been keeping up on current events, but we just got out asses kicked, pal!
Oh, man. And I was gettin' short, too! Four more weeks and out. Now I'm gonna buy it on this fuckin' rock. It ain't half fair, man!
Hudson, give us a break.
It's inside the complex.
You're just reading me.
No. No! It ain't you. They're inside. Inside the perimeter. They're in here.
Removed surgically before embryo implantation. Subject: Marachuk, John L. Died during procedure. They killed him getting it off.
Poor bastard.
How long after we're declared overdue can we expect a rescue?
About seventeen days.
All right. There's a fire door at this end. The first thing we do is put a remote sentry in the tunnel and seal that door.
We gotta figure on them getting into the complex.
That's right. So we put up welded barricades at these intersections... ...and seal these ducts here and here. Then they can only come at us from these two corridors and we create a free field of fire for the other two sentry units, here.
They're in the approach corridor.
On my way.
Now many?
Can't tell. Lots. D gun's down to twenty. Ten. It's out.
Newt time then can walk right up and knock.
But they don't know that. They're probably looking for other ways to get in. That'll take them awhile.
They'll get us.
Maybe. Maybe not.
Hicks, I'm not going to wind up like those others. You'll take care of it won't you, it if comes to that?
If it comes to that, I'll do us both. Let's see that it doesn't Here, I'd like to introduce you to a close personal friend of mine.
What's this?
Well, that's the grenade launcher ...you probably don't want to mess with that.
Look, you started this. Now show me everything. I can handle myself.
Yeah. I've noticed.
Wait a minute. We'd know about it.
The only way it would work is if he sabotaged certain freezers on the trip back. Then he could jettison the bodies and make up any story he liked.
You know, Burke, I don't know which species is worse. You don't see them screwing each other over for a fucking percentage.
Let's waste him. No offense.
It's game time.
Get back here, both of you. Fall back to Operations.
They learned. They cut the power and avoided the guns. They must have found another way in, something we missed.
We didn't miss anything.
Locked.
Stand back.
No! No! She's alive! We have to 
All right! She's alive. I believe it. But we gotta get moving! Now!
Hicks, don't let him leave.
We ain't going anywhere.
Ellen.
Don't be long, Ellen.
Save it.
Sure, Hicks.
Let's get the fuck out of here!
Not that tunnel, the other one!
Well that's great! That's just fucking great, man. Now what the fuck are we supposed to do, man? We're in some real pretty shit now!
Are you finished? You okay?
Outstanding. Then all we need's a deck of cards. All right, let's move like we got a purpose.
Ayefirmative.
We got problems.
I don't fucking believe this. Do you believe this?
Maybe we got 'em demoralized.
I want you two walking the perimeter. I know we're all in strung out shape but stay frosty and alert. We've got to stop any entries before they get out of hand.
The corner! Ready?
Do it!
Seventeen meters.
Let's get these things lit.
Well you're not reading it right!
Six meters. Five. What the fu 
Let's go! Let's go!
Fuckin' A!
At ease. I'm sorry we didn't have time to brief before we left Gateway but...
Sir?
Yes, Hicks?
Hudson, Sir. He's Hicks.
What's the question?
Is this going to be a standup fight, Sir, on another bughunt?
All we know is that there's still no contact with the colony and that a xenomorph may be involved.
Are there any questions? Hudson?
How do I get out of this chickenshit outfit?
All right, the area's secured. Let's go in and see what their computer can tell us. First team head for operations. Hudson, see if you can get their CPU on line. Hicks, meet me at the south lock by the uplink tower...
...We're coming in.
He's coming in. I feel safer already.
Sir, the CPU is online.
Okay, stand by in operations. Let's go.
Hah! Stop your grinnin' and drop your linen! Found 'em.
Alive?
Unknown. But, it looks like all of them. Over at the processing station...sublevel 'C' under the south tower.
We're not making that out too well. What is it?
You tell me. I only work here.
How may drops is this for you, Lieutenant?
Thirtyeight...simulated.
Hold at forty. Slow circle of the complex.
The structure seems intact. They have power.
One of us?
Apone...where are your people? Anybody in DBlock?
Where are your parents? You have to try...
Gorman! Give it a rest would you.
What is it?
I don't know.
Proceed inside.
So.
So...then the fusion containment shuts down.
So? So?
GET THEM OUT OF THERE! DO IT NOW!
Shut up. Just shut up!
I told them to fall back...
They're but off! Do something!
How do you feel?
All right, I guess. One hell of a hangover. Look, Ripley... I...
Forget it.
Look, we don't know what's going on out there. It may just be a down transmitter. But if it's not, I want you there...as an advisor. That's all.
You wouldn't be going in with the troops. I can guarantee your safety.
These Colonial Marines are some tough hombres, and they're packing stateoftheart firepower. Nothing they can't handle...right, Lieutenant?
We're trained to deal with these kinds of situations.
Still nothing from the colony?
Dead on all channels.
Looks like you company can write off its share of this colony.
It's insured.
What's he scanning for?
PDT'S. PersonalData Transmitters. Every adult colonist had one surgically implanted.
We're talking thermonuclear explosion.
Shit. Apone, collect magazines from everybody. We can't have any firing in there.
Fiftyseven...oh, Christ...
You'd drifted right through the core systems. It's blind luck that deepsalvage team caught you when they...are you all right?
Have they located my daughter yet?
Well, I was going to wait until after the inquest...
Is she...?
Amanda RipleyMcClaren. Married name, I guess. Age: sixtysix ...at time of death. Two years ago. I'm sorry.
Amy.
Cancer. Hmmmm. They still haven't licked that one. Cremated. Interred Parkside Repository, Little Chute, Wisconsin. No children.
You read my deposition...it's complete and accurate.
Look, I believe you, but there are going to be some heavyweights in there. You got Feds, you got interstellar commerce commission, you got colonial administration, insurance company guys...
I get the picture.
Just tell them what happened. The important thing is to stay cool and unemotional.
You had them eating out of your hand, kiddo.
They had their minds made up before I even went in there. They think I'm a head case.
You are a head case. Have a donut.
No. There's no way!
Hear me out...
I was reamed, steamed and drycleaned by you guys...and now you want me to go back out there? Forget it.
What about you? What's your interest in this?
Well, the corporation cofinanced that colony with the Colonial Administration, against mineral rights. We're getting into a lot of terraforming...'Building Better Worlds.'
Yeah, yeah. I saw the commercial.
I heard you were working in the cargo docks.
That's right.
Running loaders, forklifts, that sort of thing?
It's all I could get. Anyway, it keeps my mind off of... everything. Days off are worse.
What if I said I could get you reinstated as a flight officer? And that the company has agreed to pick up your contract?
If I go.
If you go. It's a second chance, kiddo. And it'll be the best thing in the world for you to face this fear and beat it. You gotta get back on the horse...
Spare me, Burke. I've had my psych evaluation this month.
Yes, and I've read it. You wake up every night, sheets soaking, the same nightmare over and over...
No! The answer is no. Now please go. I'm sorry. Just go, would you.
Yello? Oh, Ripley. Hi...
Burke, just tell me one thing. That you're going out there to kill them. Not study. Not bring back. Just burn them out...clean ...forever.
That's the plan. My word on it.
You never said anything about an android being here! Why not?
Well, it didn't occur to me. It's been policy for years to have a synthetic on board.
I hope you're right. I really do.
I suggest you study the disks Ripley has been kind enough to prepare for you.
That the atmosphere processor?
Uhhunh. One of thirty or so, all over the planet. They're completely automated. We manufacture them, by the way.
They're right under the primary heat exchangers.
Yeah? Maybe the organisms like the heat, that's why they built...
That's not what I mean. Gorman, if your men have to use their weapons in there, they'll rupture the cooling system.
She's right.
No good. How do we know it'll effect their biochemistry? I say we take off and nuke the entire site from orbit. It's the only way to be sure.
Now hold on a second. I'm not authorizing that action.
Why not?
Well, I mean...I know this is an emotional moment, but let's not make snap judgments. Let's move cautiously. First, this physical installation had a substantial dollar value attached to it 
They can bill me. I got a tab running. What's second?
This is clearly an important species we're dealing with here. We can't just arbitrarily exterminate them 
Bullshit!
You son of a bitch.
Don't make me pull rank, Ripley.
What rank? I believe Corporal Hicks has authority here.
Corporal Hicks!?
This operation is under military jurisdiction and Hicks is next in chain of command. Right?
Those specimens are worth millions to the bioweapons division. Now, if you're smart we can both come out of this heroes. Set up for life.
You just try getting a dangerous organism past ICC quarantine. Section 22350 of the Commerce Code.
You've been doing your homework. Look, they can't impound it if they don't know about it.
But they will know about it, Burke. From me. Just like they'll know how you were responsible for the deaths of one hundred and fiftyseven colonists here 
Now, wait a second 
You sent them to that ship. I just checked the colony log... directive dates sixtwelveseventynine. Signed Burke, Carter J.
You sent them out there and you didn't even warn them, Burke. Why didn't you warn them?
Look, maybe the thing didn't even exist, right? And if I'd made it a major security situation, the Administration would've stepped in. Then no exclusive rights, nothing.
I expected more of you, Ripley. I thought you would be smarter than this.
Sorry to disappoint you.
I've isolated a neuromuscular toxin responsible for the paralysis. It seems to be metabolizing. He should wake up soon.
Now let me get this straight. The aliens paralyzed the colonists, carried them over there, cocooned them to be hosts for more of those...
Which would mean lots of those parasites, right? One for each person...over a hundred at least.
Yes. That follows.
But these things come from eggs...so where are all the eggs coming from.
That is the question of the hour. We could assume a parallel to certain insect forms who have hivelike organization. An ant of termite colony, for example, is ruled by a single female, a queen, which is the source of new eggs.
You're saying one of those things lays all the eggs?
Well, the queen is always physically larger then the others. A termite queen's abdomen is so bloated with eggs that it can't move at all. It is fed and tended by drone workers, defended by the warriors. She is the center of their lives, quite literally the mother of their society.
Could it be intelligent?
Hard to say. It may have been blind instinct...attraction to the heat of whatever...but she did choose to incubate her eggs in the one spot where we couldn't destroy her without destroying ourselves. That's if she exists, of course.
That's it. See it? Emergency venting.
How long until it blows?
I'm projecting total systems failure in a little under four hours. The blast radius will be about thirty kilometers. About equal to ten megatons.
And it's too late to shut it down?
I'm afraid so. The crash did too much damage. The overload is inevitable, at this point.
I'll go.
What?
I'm really the only one qualified to remotepilot the ship anyway. Believe me, I'd prefer not to. I may be synthetic but I'm not stupid.
All right. Let's get on it. What'll you need?
It's going to be closer. You better get going.
See you soon.
HOW MUCH TIME?
PLENTY! TWENTYSIX MINUTES!
WE'RE NOT LEAVING!
Ripley...
She's alive. They brought her here and you know it.
In seventeen minutes this place will be a cloud of vapor the size of Nebraska.
You did okay, Bishop.
Well, thanks, I 
...that's better. Pan it around a bit.
Awright. Fireteam A. Gear up. Let's move. Two minutes. Somebody wake up Hicks.
Okay, let's do it.
Awright! I want a nice clean dispersal this time.
Set down sixty meters this side of the telemetry mast. Immediate dust off on my 'clear,' then stay on station.
Ten seconds, people. Look sharp!
First squad up, on line. Hicks, get yours in a cordon. Watch the rear.
Vasquez, take point. Let's move.
Flameunits only. I want rifles slung.
Let's go. Pull 'em out.
Uh,...Apone, I want you to lay down a suppressing fire with the incinerators and fall back by squads to the APC, over.
Say again? All after incinerators?
This floor's freezing.
Christ. I never saw such a buncha old women. You want me to fetch your slippers, Hudson?
Would you, Sir?
Whoooah! No shit? I'm impressed.
Let's go...let's go. Cycle through!
Hey, 'Top.' What's the op?
Rescue mission. There's some juicy colonists' daughters we gotta rescue from virginity.
Movement!
Position?
Can't lock up...
Talk to me, Hudson.
Uh, seems to be in front and behind.
Hope their plumbing's the same.
It is.
How can I go?
Put on your washandwear suit and your clipon tie, have your landlady tie your shoes for you, and show up at the church. Simple. Me and Carol are going.
What?
Hey, look  we've known Kristin since... since she was conceived in that cabin up in Big Bear. Remember? You and Edie banged the wall so hard, me and Carol were picking plaster out of our hair for a week...
Goddammit, Tug  I want to see Kristin get married, okay? But
But you're bummed because your ex and her new husband are paying for the whole thing.
Shit, if Kristin had to get married where I could afford it, we'd be holding the reception at Buddy's Burgers.
Does that look at all suspicious to you?
Whatever gave you that idea?
You got your vest?
Of course. Right in the trunk of the car.
Yeah, that's comforting. Mine, too.
Watch the driver. I'm going for a better angle on the door.
I got him. Don't get pinned.
Get outta there!
I can't! Do you mind!
I'll cover you! Get outta there!!
Yeah, Sykes?
Captain. I'd like to volunteer for duty with the new detective.
You are to have nothing to do with the investigation into Bill Tuggle's death. You know that. Leave that for Fedorchuk.
Departmental policy.
You?
Granger and Pitts are already on it.
Granger and Pitts have one hell of a caseload... and I would have thought with Jetson here being the first Newcomer plainclothes, and Hubley's body being found over in the Newcomer community...
Don't tell me what to think.
You know I've been over all this with Fedorchuk and Alterez this morning...
Come on. You got nothin' better to do, cushy county job like yours.
Yeah, right. Don't push your luck. Anyway, according to the sheet, the guy you nailed outside by the car
The human?
Yeah... he was one Martin Helder. White male, twentyseven. Let's see... wrap sheet shows one armed robbery conviction, a couple for sale of a controlled substance. Oh yeah, and he was wired on coke when you stopped his clock.
No I.D. on him and  well, you know, no fingerprints  so it could be tough. Your buddies this morning went through the mug book but couldn't make a facial match.
Fedorchuk couldn't find his ass with his hands in his back pockets.
You took this gut out, too, didn't you?
Yeah.
Lucky for you, you got him in both of his... well, what we loosely refer to as... hearts.
Lucky nothing. I had to empty my damn gun into him.
That's the way these people are. You don't hit both pumps you just piss them off.
Oh, here's an extra headshot if you need one. We're just about to start cutting in. You're welcome to stick around if you want. It's really fascinating stuff.
Yeah, I'll bet.
You guys finished the postmortem on Strader yet?
You mean the Blob? They're finishing up now.
What kind of test?
Looking for some foreign compound in the blood of that alien you dropped the other day.
Did he find anything?
Jesus, are the questions too tough for you already? Let's try again Is your name Porter?
Ss'kya'ta'.
What's that?
One of the two men was Hubley, right? What about the other one? Did you know him?
Yeah... I seen him around. High roller dude named Strader. Joshua Strader. Runs a club on the west side. Encounters.
Yeah, I heard of it.
That's all I know. You want anything more, you ask somebody else.
Here's Hubley. Left Quarantine on November thirtieth, relocated first to Riverside, then moved to Los Angeles early in February the following year. Field of expertise: chemical manufacturing. Looks like he passed up several other better paying jobs waiting for that one at the refinery.
Try Joshua Strader, will ya, darlin'?
For you, anything.
Released December one. He and his wife moved first to Modesto, then Coalinga, California  wherever that is  settled in L.A. in April. Field of expertise: organic chemical engineering. He and his wife have one child, a son.
Yeah  we met him. Wonderful boy... close personal friend of George's here.
I'm sorry, Matt. Nothing here seems to be matching up...
Can you dig up their Quarantine records in this thing?
Sure. Just a minute.
Mr. Hubley was an all right guy  and a damn good manager. The men liked him. I'm really gonna have to scramble to fill his shoes.
Well, one of the men didn't like him so much...
You think this is the guy who did it?
We think he could'a been involved, yeah. You know him?
To be honest, it's hard to say. I hate to admit it but  they all still kinda look alike to me.
Who else can I ask around here?
Wait. You know who it looks like? Yeah. Anderson. Uh... James Anderson. He isn't in today. He took the afternoon off.
I think you're gonna find he's taken the rest of his life off.
That where Anderson worked?
Yes it is. Thirtyfive percent pure Methane gas in there. I don't know how these fellas do it.
Don't piss him off, O'Neal. When he gets like this, I can't control him. I've seen this before. He got like this once  I saw him jerk a guy's spine out and show it to him. Nothing I could do. I hadda go throw up.
... They took the stuff out, all of it  this afternoon.
You said you wanted the biggest thing I could find... Well, this is it.
What is it?
Casull .454 Magnum. You're talking twice the impact energy of .44 Magnum hot loads.
Only holds five.
Yeah, the shells are too big for six in an cylinder. Hell, Matt, you don't need but one.
No... two.
... and we work my hours. I'll do the driving, you do the paperwork. You gotta learn it so you might as well do it all.
Sergeant... I'd like to thank you for what you're doing.
What's that? Look, Jetson. Get this straight in your head. We're not pals, we're not married, and we ain't gonna take long moonlight walks together... We're just partners. And don't call me Sergeant. Call me Sykes... or Matt if you have to.
I am George.
Man, somebody really hung one on you! I've heard some good ones for you guys... Humphrey Bogart, Harley Davidson. I guess the people at immigration got a little punchy after a while, coming up with names for a quarter of a million of you. You weren't at the back of the line, were you, George?
My true name is Ss'tangya T'ssorentsa'.
Gesundheit. You don't mind if I stick to George, do you?
Anyway, what's it matter to you if we think it's funny, right? Whatta you care?
That is exactly so. It is like your name... Sykes. I'm sure it doesn't bother you at all that it sounds like "ss'ai k'ss", two words in my language which mean "excrement" and "cranium".
Let's talk Hubley.
His body was discovered three days ago, in an alley off of Central Avenue, near downtown.
With two BRI Sabot slugs in the chest.
Through the chest. Rupturing both the primary and secondary hearts.
Nice signal, dickwad!
Terrific. A real pillar of the community. Was Hubley missing anything when they found him? Was he ripped off?
There was no wallet... but he was still wearing a watch and two rings.
The guys at the minimart last night made a halfassed stab at the money in the till  but I don't think that's what they were there for. I think we got us a couple'a executions on our hands, George...
The murder at the minimart is not our case. The Captain said
Look, you want to fit in here, right? You want to learn how to get along?
Yes.
Well, there's a thing about partners, about being somebody's partner. You do for each other. And other people's rules don't mean shit. It's the rules set up between the two of you, that's all that counts. Understand? Okay. Well, my friend and partner was shot last night and I'm after the shitbag that did it. As my partner, I'm asking you to respect me and help me find him.
What is wrong?
Nothing's wrong. I just want to get something straight. You agree that there's a good chance these two shootings are somehow related, right?
Well... yes, quite possibly.
Possibly. Good. Well, would you be willing to accept the theory, George, that... possibly... by examining the evidence from one case we might shed some small ray of light on the other? Does that sound unreasonable to you?
Yes... no, it is not unreasonable. Although I
Great. Well, I'm sure glad that's settled, aren't you?
What's this? What's going on?
Nothing.
Nothing?
Shouldn't we examine their personal effects?
What is this?
A rubber. A condom. You know... Coney Island whitefish? Men, human men, put them on their, uh  penises  to protect against having babies. You need this for anything?
Get the picture?
And that fits?
Well... Yeah, it's rubber. It stretches.
And still it fits?
Newcomers working near methane gasses at oil refineries must paint it on their boots to protect against sparks.
How the hell do you know that?
A large number of my people were hired by refineries because the methane fumes are not harmful to us. My spouse's brother is one.
So the Slag they're cutting into upstairs worked at a refinery just like Hubley worked at a refinery. I'd say that "possible" connection between the two cases just got a hell of a lot more possible. Okay, next step  I gotta go talk to the wife of the Slag store owner blown away last night.
I believe I should interview the widow alone.
Why the hell?! Great, fine. You talk to the wife.
Mrs. Porter is not taking her husband's death well.
Did you learn anything?
A week ago two men came to see her husband. After they left, he was very frightened. She identified one of the men from a photo I showed her. It was Hubley.
Awright. What about the other guy?
She didn't know him. But she said her son might.
Did you talk to him?
He has not been home since that day. But she told me where to find him.
Rudyard Kipling? No shit? Listen, we just need a minute of your time...
We'd like to ask you about a business associate of your, Warren Hubley.
Why did you do it?
Why'd I do what?
Agree to work with me? You don't like me... you don't like any of us. You have nothing but contempt for us. And yet you become an outcast from your club of detectives by making me your partner...
My partner is dead! Because one of you bastards killed him  then disappeared into a rathole down in Slagtown, where he's home and dry, 'cause nobody sees nothing, nobody says nothing...
Who said that?
At the end of the bar.
Your name wouldn't happen to be Porter, would it?
Uh, Matthew...
Back off, George.
But I .
I'll handle it.
Screw you.
Screw me? That can't be right.
Tell me.
Your mother mates out of season.
That's very colorful. But see  now I've got a problem. I don't seem to be getting much cooperation from you, Porter. So I guess we're gonna have to take this little session down to my office, ya know?
Matthew, you don't have to .
Stay back! I'm okay.
You know that guy?
From quarantine, when my people first arrived here. He and I were housed together.
How could a straightarrow like you ever pick a roommate like him?
In the camps, we were lodged four to a room. The selection process was entirely random. We did not get to stay with our friends... or families...
If I may make a suggestion... We have different weak spots than you do. Next time, a blow to the nerve plexus under the arm, here, will produce the effect I think you were looking for.
Yeah, sure. I knew that...
I don't think I could ever learn to read that shit. How long did it take you to learn English?
Three months. We learn quickly. We adapt. It is our strength... what we were bred for, to adapt to hostile environments.
Which one is that? Raw what?
This is mole. It's good.
I'll bet. Would it really put you out if they tossed that on the grill for a minute or two?
Our bodies do not assimilate the nutrients if the food has been cooked.
So what was that other word for Human... Slow ka?
Ss'loka'. It means literally "small but intelligent creature". It loses much in the translation.
And what was that one about my mother? That was a good one.
Ss'trokya ss'lato 'na'.
Yeah, that's it. Say it slow.
Who is he?
Todd Watson. The assistant manager.
We were chasing you because you ran, you dumb sonofabitch.
When will Strader return?
I believe he is probably lying.
Through his ass. Next time you see him, tell him to call me... unless you want us to keep coming back on you like a bad case of herpes.
So, she keeps you on a pretty short leash, does she?
My wife? She worries about me.
Yeah... I know the routine.
You are married?
Was. Divorced.
We mate for life. Divorce... is a strange concept to us.
It's like having an eleventh finger removed. It hurts like hell, but you never really needed the damn thing in the first place.
Your home is quite disordered. I thought perhaps you had been burglarized when I walked in.
I appreciate your honesty, George.
Human children can be very beautiful. Getting married? Congratulations. You will be taking Sunday off, then...
Maybe not... I don't know. I'm not sure I'm gonna go. She doesn't need her burnout of a father there...
... and so, and so the doctor says, "If this is the thermometer, then where'd I leave the pen?" You're not... you don't think that's funny? George, work with me, I always get a laugh with that one. Look, if the doctor's got the thermometer in his hand, then where's his pen gotta be?
In the other man's rectum.
Sticking out of his ass... yeah! See, that's what makes it a joke. There's like a surprise, and your mind fills in the funny picture. Here's this guy with a pen stuck in his ass and he thinks it's a thermometer. Nada, huh?
Your health...
Ta ss'trakyona'...
There is so much our two peoples don't understand about each other.
No shit, Holmes. You're only from another goddamn planet, for chrissakes.
You humans are very curious to us. You invite us to live among you, in an atmosphere of equality we've never known before. You lay before us a beautiful green world, full of freedoms and opportunities... You give us ownership of our lives for the first time... and you ask no more of us than you do of yourselves: to live by the rules... rules that aren't made to keep one people subordinate to another, but rules that exist to preserve equality. You aspire to very high ideals here.
I hope you can understand how special your world is... how unique a people you humans are. So it us all the more painful and confusing to us that so few of you seem capable of living up the the ideals you set for yourselves.
Don't count on me, George. I never had any ideals.
I'm going home.
Yeah, go home. Get some sleep. You do sleep, don't you?
Where'd you get this?!!
A man, a human, was wiring it to your car. I didn't get a good look at him. I must call my wife...
She's going to divorce me.
George, she's not gonna divorce you. You mate for life, remember?
She's very progressive. I'm certain she's considering it.
Well, let's roll, George.
To the... to the beach?
Come on, let's go, dude. Surf's up!
Stop the car.
Why?
Please, I must get out here.
Come on, you won't have to get near the water.
Stop the car!
It's all right, George. It's cool. Just wait here, all right? I'll be back in a coupla minutes.
Thank you.
What was that about?
Nothing.
... So we've got three guys dead. All Newcomers, all killed the same way  execution style.
Warren Hubley was in middle management at a refinery... Joshua Strader operated a successful bar and nightclub...
... and Porter ran a piece of shit momandpop minimart. So what the hell's the connection?
What's this nothing shit? It wasn't nothing yesterday when you asked Bentner to run that test and he looked like he was about to shit peach pits, and it's not nothing now. Don't lie to me, George, you're bad at it.
You must leave me alone on this.
No secrets, goddammit! You don't hold back from me. Whatever is going on, you're gonna tell me now!
No. I cannot involve you. This is not your concern.
The hell it isn't, when somebody wires up enough C4 explosive to my car to turn me into pink mist! That Slag was on something, and not sour milk, either? Am I right? TELL ME! What is it?
... It is called ss'jabroka'. To us it is a potent narcotic.
How potent?
Like your cocaine, I suppose. The "high" lasts several hours. We would receive small amounts of it... as a reward for our labor.
We? You've taken it?
We all did.
Where did he get it? Was there any of it on the ship?
No... I am sure not. That is why I am so concerned... someone must now be producing it here. But none of my people know how to make it. The process was carefully guarded.
Jesus, this is major. Why didn't you tell me sooner? Why'd you hold out on me?
Your people don't know about this part of out past. And they can't know  It would threaten our entire existence here.
George... look me in the eye... George, you don't ever lie to me again.
I must trust you, Matthew. I cannot stop this without you.
They had months in quarantine to develop the plan. Porter, with his chemistry background, must have somehow come up with the formula for the drug. Hubley manufactured it  at the refinery. Strader, through the nightclub, established a distribution network. And Harcourt
Harcourt was the brain who brought it all together.
Okay, George  we gotta play this real smart.
If the drug is here, we must destroy it.
No, George  you're missing the point. The drug is evidence. We need to have the evidence, ya know?
Uh, George...
Where is the drug? Where have they taken it?
George, uh... you're gonna break his little chest bones...
Stay out of this, Matthew. Tell me where the drug has been taken or I will crush your lungs against this wall.
George, c'mon  lighten up. It's a beauty of a case. Don't sweat it  we got him by the short hairs. He ain't gonna make any more of the shit.
The fifty kilos, Matthew. I have to find it. I can't let it get out on the street.
Why? What's the big goddamn deal?
SYKES +++$+++
Fuck procedure.
Shit!
Ssai!
With Harcourt and Kipling dead, I assume you will be requesting reassignment now.
It'd be for your own good. I think you'd be better off with a partner who's a little more... by the book. ... Still, I gotta tell you, George, for a quiet guy, you're sure hell on wheels once you get going. I'd kinda hate to miss your next two days as a detective.
What's this about, George? I know that look.
There! Go back. Down that side street.
No! We must do this alone.
Do what?! George ?!
What is this?!
... It's Harcourt.
Harcourt is dead.
No he's not. Not if he overdosed on the drug. Massive amounts trigger a... a change. Your body functions seize up, you appear to be dead, but it's really a state of incubation. When you emerge you're...
Tell me about it...
I never thought I'd say this, but  for once in my life I think I'm willing to wait for backup.
We can't let him get away.
Why the hell are you so dead set against backup?
Because... because of what will happen if humans see what we are capable of becoming.
But there's no more drug.
You understand that. But how many others will?
How do I look?
You look very good.
That cop, the human, he was the one who killed Anderson and the driver.
This is becoming a serious breach of security.
He didn't recognize me.
It is his new partner that I'm worried about.
When we picked him up, he was talking to those two cops  the two who came to question you about Hubley.
This is getting out of hand. I want you to deal with it. Immediately.
Kill them both.
Here?
Do it!
William Harcourt?
Yes...
I'm Sergeant Sykes, and this is Detective Jetson, Los Angeles Police Department.
Sergeant... Detective. I wasn't aware there were any Newcomers at the rank of Detective yet.
Yes, I heard about poor Warren. Tragic.
You were partners with him on some Slag  uh, Newcomer real estate thing.
That's right. He and I, along with seven or eight others. Listen, gentlemen, I will be happy to assist you in any way I can  unfortunately, at the moment, I'm overdue at another function.
Move a finger, Harcourt, and you're history...
No, Sergeant  not history... Eternity...
So what've you got on Tuggle's killers?
Jesus, Sykes  it's been less than ten hours. Me and Alterez are on it, okay?
You don't have squat.
You ever try to make a case in Slagtown? The list of Newcomer informants is about as long as the list of Mexican war heroes...
Look at your dildo partner. He's too scared to even come down to the sand. You're not gonna get wet standing here, moron!
I'd like to see you next to a sea of hydrochloric acid, Fedorchuk... see how much surfin' you'd do.
Well, if it isn't Detective Jetson. Forget you hip waders, big guy?
Lay off, asshole.
I may be an asshole, but at least I'm a real detective, not some outer shit space thing.
You are Cassandra?
That's right.
We are with the Police Department. This is Sergeant Sykes, and I am
Ss'ai k'ss? Perfect.
He's not here. Why ask me?
The young woman at the front said you might know where he is.
She did, did she? Well, she was wrong. Excuse me, I have to change.
In there.
Show me.
Oooh. Hardball. That sounds interesting. Are you going to strike me? You could tie me up and then do whatever you want with me... I've got my own ropes.
Does that cost extra or you throw them in?
You've got me all wrong. I don't charge money for something that I myself find pleasurable...
Look, I don't know where Mr. Strader might be. He comes and he goes.
The girl out front mentioned Strader's assistant, somebody named Watson. Maybe he knows.
Todd? Todd doesn't know either.
I know... Why don't you hang around for a while, let me entertain you? It's Matt, right? Now tell me the truth, have you ever... made it... with one of us?
Not unless I got real drunk and nobody told me about it later.
A virgin. I find that very arousing...
There's lots of things I haven't done, but his ain't high on the list. Don't take it personally.
I think you're just a little scared now, about what you might find once the lights go out. A little scared... and a lot curious. Maybe more than you want to admit. But doesn't that turn you on, that curiosity and fear, swirling together? Think of it as broadening your horizons.
I like my horizons narrow.
Your voice is saying no, but your body is saying yes.
You okay?
Yeah...
FourteenB. It's halfway down on your right.
Thank you.
Do you feel all right, sir?
Oh  I haven't flown for a long time.
Excuse me, sir. Would you like some coffee before we serve dinner?
No. No thank you.
Excuse me, sir. There's been a little problem in the cockpit and I was wondering...
The cockpit? What is it?
It's the little room at the front of the plane where the pilots sit. But that's not important right now. The first officer is ill and the Captain would like someone with flying experience to help him with the radio. Do you know anything about planes?
Well, I flew in the war, but that was a long time ago. I wouldn't know anything about it.
Would you go up, please?
Mr. Striker, the passengers are ready.
Thank you, Randy. You better leave sweetheart. You might get hurt in here.
Excuse me, Sister?
Yes?
There's a little girl on board who's ill and...
Oh yes, I saw. Poor child.
Could I borrow your guitar? I thought I might be able to cheer her up.
Of course.
Sorry, Clarence. Latest weather report shows everything socked in from Salt Lake to Lincoln.
Hi, Roger. Good to have you aboard. Victor, this is Roger Murdock.
Roger.
Huh?
Roger.
Huh?
We have clearance, Clarence.
Roger, Roger. What's our vector, Victor?
Do you want me to check the weather, Clarence?
No, why don't you take care ot it?
No, he's not bothering anyone. Let him stay up here.
All right. But just remember, my name is Roger Murdock.
Would either of you like another cup of coffee?
I will, but Jim won't.
Yes?
Oh, Stewardess. My husband is very sick. Can you do something, please?
Well, the doctor will be with you in just a moment. One thing: do you know what he had for dinner?
Yes, of course. We both had fish. Why?
Oh, it's nothing to be alarmed about. We'll get back to you very quickly.
Hi!
I'm Randy.
I'm Lisa. Oh, you have a guitar!
I thought maybe you'd like to hear a song.
Oh, I'd love to.
Okay, this is one of my favorites.
Wait a minute. I know you. You're Kareem Abdul Jabbar. You play basketball for the Los Angeles Lakers!
I'm sorry, son, but you must have me confused with someone else. My name is Roger Murdock. I'm the copilot.
You <u>are</u> Kareem. I've seen you play. My Dad's got season tickets!
I think you should go back to your seat now, Joey. Right, Clarence?
I'm an airline pilot. Ah, Clarence, according to my calculations, with this tailwind we ought to be able to make up an additional fifteen minutes over the Rockies.
I think you're the greatest. But my Dad says you don't work hard enough on defense.
Denver Control, this is Flight twozero niner intersecting Victor Airway seven ninerniner.
...and that lots of times you don't even run down court.
We are turning left to a heading of zero ninerniner.
...and that you don't really try, except during the playoffs.
The hell I don't! I'm out there busting my buns every night.
Jack, isn't that Fred Bliffert over there in the blue turtleneck? Maybe he's on our flight to Chicago.
Yeah, I think he is. Hey, Fred!
What did you think of 'Great Expectations?'
Well, it wasn't all that I had hoped.
Oh, I can't stand it.
What is it?
How ya doing, honey?
Oh Jack, I'm so warm. I'm burning up.
Here.
And get that finger out of your ear. You don't know where that finger's been! Gunderson?
Yes, Captain?
Did you decide on a runway yet?
Runway niner. It's the longest, and directly into the wind.
Eight miles. Turn right to heading zero eight niner.
You are now eight miles from the airport. Turn right to a heading of zero eight niner, throttle back slightly and begin to lose altitude to fifteen hundred feet.
He's all over the place! Nine hundred feet up to thirteen hundred feet! What an asshole!
Watch your altitude, Striker. It's too erratic. You can't come straight in. You've got enough fuel left for two hours flying. You've got to stay up there 'til we get a break in the weather.
He's right on the heading.
All right, he's on final now! Put out all runway lights except niner.
Oh, Bill, I'm going to miss you so much.
You promise you'll write.
Every day.
Goodbye, darling.
Oh, Bill, I'll keep it. I'll keep it with me all the time.
So long, darling. Goodbye. Take care of yourself.
Bill! Bill! Goodbye, Bill.
Goodbye, darling.
Goodbye, darling. I love you. I love you, darling.
Goodbye, darling.
We have a visitor.
Hello.
We'd better get back now.
Joey can stay up here for a while if he'd like to.
Hey, we've been waiting for you. A little bit late tonight.
Who wants to be first?
Airsick?
I think so, but I've never seen it so acute.
Find out if there's a doctor on board, as quietly as you can.
Elaine!
Ted!
I came home early and found your note. I guess you meant for me to read it later. Elaine, I've got to talk to you.
I just don't want to go over it any more.
I know things haven't been right for a long time, but it'll be different. If you'll just be patient, I can work things out.
I have been patient and I've tried to help, but you wouldn't even let me do that.
Don't you feel anything for me at all any more?
It takes so many things to make love last. Most of all it takes respect. And I can't live with a man I don't respect!
Look, you'll be back in town tomorrow night. We'll have dinner  talk it over.
I won't be back. I've requested the Atlanta run.
Elaine, not yet. I promise you I really can change.
Then why don't you take the job that Louie Netz offered you at Boeing?
You know I haven't been able to get near an airplane since the war. And even if I could, they wouldn't hire me because of my war record.
Your <u>war</u> <u>record</u>? You're the only one keeping that alive. For everyone else it's ancient history.
You expect me to believe that?
It's the truth. What's hurt you the most is your record since the war. Different cities, different jobs, and not one of them shows you can accept any real responsibility.
But if you'll just give me...
It's too late, Ted. When I get back to Chicago, I'm going to start my life all over again. I'm sorry.
Ted, what are you doing here?
Elaine, I've got to talk to you.
You...you shouldn't have come. I don't have time now.
What's the matter?
My orders came through. My squadron ships out tomorrow. I'll be leading a very important mission.
Oh, Ted, please be careful. I worry about you so much.
I love you, Elaine.
I love you.
Elaine, just hear me out. I know things haven't been right for a long time. But it will be different...like it was in the beginning. Remember?
I remember everything. All I have are memories.
Mostly I remember...the nights when we were together. I remember how you used to hold me...and how I used to sit on your face and wriggle...and then afterwards how we'd watch until the sun came up. When it did, it was almost like...like each new day was created...only for us.
That's the way I've always wanted it to be, Elaine.
But it won't be. Not as long as you insist on living in the past!
You got a telegram from headquarters today.
Headquarters!? What is it?
It's a big building where the generals meet. But that's not important right now. They've cleared you of any blame for what happened on that raid. Isn't that good news?
Is it? Because of my mistake six men didn't return from that raid.
Seven. Lieutenant Zipp died this morning. Ted, Doctor Sandler says you'll be out in a week. Isn't that wonderful?
I wish I could say the same for George Zipp.
Be patient, Ted. No one expects you to get over this immediately.
What's his problem?
That's Lieutennt Hurwitz. Severe shell shock. He thinks he's Ethel Merman.
I think they're getting the hang of it! When we reenlist I'll teach them baseball!
Ted, I don't want to stay here. It's time for us to go back home  to the plans we made before the war.
A lot of people made plans before the war. Like George Zipp.
Ted! What are you doing? You can't fly this plane!
That's what I've been trying to tell these people.
Rain.
And a little ice.
And a little ice!
Sluggish. Like a wet sponge.
Sluggish. Like a wet sponge.
It's a damn good thing he doesn't know how much I hate his guts.
It's a damn good thing you don't know how much he hates your guts.
Rats! I've lost number three.
What happened, Ted? What went wrong?
Oil pressure. I forgot to check the oil pressure. When Kramer hears about this, the shit's gonna hit the fan.
But Ted, you're the only...
I don't care. I just don't have what it takes. They'd be better off with someone who'd never flown before.
Ted...
Yes?
I wanted you to know  now  I'm very proud.
Tell them the gear is down and we're ready to land.
The gear is down.
See them, Elaine?
Uhhuh.
Sir. Excuse me, sir. I'm sorry to have to wake you. Are you a doctor?
That's right.
We have some passengers who are very sick. Could you come and take a look at them?
Yes. Yes, of course.
You'd better tell the Captain. We've got to land as soon as we can. This woman has to be gotten to a hospital.
A hospital? What is it?
It's a big building with patients. But that's not important right now. Tell the Captain I must speak to him.
Certainly.
What was it we had for dinner tonight?
Well, we had a choice. Steak or fish.
Yes, yes, I remember. I had lasagna.
What did he have?
He had fish.
Doctor Rumack, Mister Hammen ate fish. And Randy says there are five more cases, and they ate fish, too.
Let's see now. The copilot had fish. What did the navigator eat?
He had fish, too.
Just how serious is it, doctor?
Extremely serious. It starts with a slight fever.
Elaine, you're a member of this crew. Can you face some unpleasant facts?
No.
All right. Unless I can get all these people to a hospital quickly, I can't even be sure of saving their lives. Now, is there anyone else on board who can land this plane?
Well...
No. No one that I know of.
I think you ought to know what our chances are. The life of everyone on board depends on just one thing: finding someone back there who not only can fly this plane, but who didn't have fish for dinner.
Captain, how soon can we land?
I can't tell.
Can't you take a guess?
Well...not for another two hours.
You can't take a guess for another two hours?
No, I mean we can't <u>land</u> for another two hours. Fog has closed down everything this side of the mountains. We've got to go through to Chicago!
What is it, Doctor? What's happening?
I'm not sure. I haven't seen anything like this since the Lina Wertmuller Film Festival.
Both pilots!
Can you fly this airplane and land it?
Surely you can't be serious.
I <u>am</u> serious, and don't call me Shirley! What flying experience have you had?
Well, I flew singleengine fighters in the Air Force, but this plane has four engines. It's an entirely different kind of flying...<u>all</u> <u>together</u>!!!
Elaine, I haven't time to put this gently, so I'll be very direct. Everyone of us on this plane is in a desperate situation. Mister Striker is the only hope we've got.
Let's see. Those are the flaps, that's the thrust, this must turn on the landing lights.
...safe and sound and free to pursue a life of religious fulfillment.
Chicago, the passengers are beginning to panic. When do we start down?
Will the hospital equipment be at the airport?
Yes, everything they've got. How are the passengers doing?
I won't deceive you, Mister Striker. We're running out of time.
Surely there must be something you can do.
I'm doing everything I can!  And stop calling me Shirley!
George Zipp said that?
And the last thing he said to me, "Doc," he said, "Sometime when the crew is up against it and the breaks are beating the boys, tell them to go out there with all they've got and win just one for the Zipper. I don't know where I'll be then, Doc," he said, "but I won't smell too good. That's for sure."
Excuse me, Doc, I've got a plane to land.
Hello, I'm Paul Carey from the airline. I'm here to pick up Captain Kramer.
Oh, yes. Come in, Paul. Rex will be right out.
Shep, sit...sit! So, I understand you've got a real emergency down there.
Well, to tell the truth, they really didn't fill me in on many of the details. Just told me to pick up Captain Kramer.
Something about a plane with no pilot?
Yeah, something like that, but as I say, they didn't have time to tell me very much.
Shep, no! I'll bet you have exciting things happen all the time down there.
...but after...awhile...you begin to... ...get used to it.
Shep, no! He gets so excited when new people are here.
I happened to be passing, and I thought you might like some corfee.
That's very nice of you. Thank you.
Ah, won't you sit down?
Thank you. Cream?
No, thank you. I take it black. Like my men.
Were you vacationing in Los Angeles?
Well, it really wasn't a vacation. You see, I'm a teacher in the New York City school system, and I was attending a seminar on visual aids to education. Are you from L.A.?
No. I'm from Washington, D.C. I'm a lobbyist for the Small Businessmen's Assocation.
After my wife died, I felt like a fifth wheel. You know, so many years being with one person  a very wonderful person  makes you always think of yourself as part of a pair...When Ethel passed away, I was lost. I couldn't function socially and I couldn't function in business.
Well, after a thing like that you wouldn't be expected to.
But I think it's time we stopped talking about me. A woman like you  why haven't you ever married?
Well, I'm afraid that's a question that's all too easy to answer.
I know the answer  Career. A smart woman like you became so involved in your work, you didn't have time for marriage.
I wish I could fool myself into believing that that's the reason. The truth of the matter is, nobody ever asked me.
You know, here we are having coffee together, and discussing education and business and economy...and we don't even know each other's names...full names I mean.
Mine's Eleanor. Eleanor Schiff.
That's a lovely name. Mine's Milton...Milt Ettenhenim. But my friends call me 'Bubbles.'
I'm sure we'll both make it...but just in case one of us...well, is there a message you'd like me to give someone?
No. I'm all alone.
Just in case I don't have a chance to say goodbye, I want you to know that I haven't spent so many pleasant hours for many years.
That's a very nice compliment, and I'd like to say that...you've done the same for me.
Excuse me, are you alright? I noticed you talking to yourself. I'm a nurse. Can I be of some help?
Uh... oh, thank you. It's nothing.
You don't have to thank me, I'm a nurse. This is my father, Dr. Barrington.
Not Dr. Barrington, the world renowned agronomist?
Yes. He's dying <u>and</u> wants to be buried on Mercury.
I'm familiar with your work, Doctor. You'll have to excuse me, I have to go.
You don't have to excuse yourself. I'm a nurse. I understand.
You've been hurt.
I'm getting over it. If a relationship isn't working, you can't force it.
No, I mean your head. Sit down. I'll take a look at it. I'm a nurse.
Do you want to talk about it.
I opened this panel and a vacuum cleaner hit me.
No. I mean your relationship.
We were in love but I'm not sure I know what love is anymore.
Love's the same as it always was. It's people who change.
People change in relation to each other. Love changes on its own.
Not if the people change together in relation to that love.
Sure. But that's only when the love itself goes unchanged.
Then the relationship remains the same and the love changes only when there's change in the two people who share that love.
I just wish it was that simple. We really were in love. You know how it is when you laugh all the time.
No. It's hard to LAUGH when your father's dying.
Well, we laughed. We laughed all the time.
Are you on the Mercury mission?
That's right, Striker. And we're getting married when we return.
You're seeing bugs where they don't exist, Striker.
Look at this wiring. It's shorting out under high temperatures.
You're tired, Striker, overworked. That wiring meets all the safety specifications.
I know you've been subtly spreading the word that I'm having a breakdown.
Striker.
Kurtz, you're drunk. Who's in command of this ship?
That damn computer has taken over. I'm getting out.
Then Elaine was right.
Don't talk to me about Elaine. Outta my way!
Pull yourself together! We've got to...
I have to see Bud Kruger.
Do you have an appointment, sir?
No, dammit. It's a matter of life or death.
You'll have to be more specific than that, sir.
All right, it's a matter of death.
Death, death. How about the first Thursday in March, ten o'clock.
You can't go in there!
Don't try to stop me!
But that's not a door. The door's over there.
You folks need any help?
Thanks, but we have a terrific woman in on Thursdays.
Say, isn't that Dr. Barrington, the world renowned agronomist?
Yes.
It's a privilege to meet you, sir, I'm familiar with all your work.
Let's go, Daddy. We have to check in. He was never appreciated at the Institute.
Ah, yes, the Institute, I'm familiar with it.
Now he's DYINGing and wants to be buried on Mercury.
Captain Oveur?
Mr. Kurtz, I presume.
We don't have much time. Let's move. I'll explain everything.
That's how dry cleaning works. Now I'd like to quickly go over the digestive system of amphibians.
Do you think it's necessary to explain <u>everything</u>?
Good to be aboard, gentlemen.
Captain Oveur, your navigator, Mr. Unger, and your first officer, Mr. Dunn.
Whenever your're ready, Captain.
Yes, sir, commander. This is Mercury One. Everything seems A okay up here and ready for countdown.
Which passenger is Joe Salucci?
Sixteen 'C', why?
He's carrying a bomb.
A b...
No, a bomb. Now, as discreetly as possible, I want you to move the passengers into the lounge.
What should I say?
Anything. Just don't let Salucci think we're onto him.
A couple eggs and juice would be nice, Mary. Over.
How would you like your eggs, Captain? Over.
No. Poached. Over.
Poached <u>and</u> over, Captain Oveur? Over.
Just poached on toast. Over.
That's how I want them. Poached. Over.
All right, Captain Oveur. Over.
Poached! Not over! Over!
Captain, the coffee machine is jammed and I don't like it.
Have you tried it with a little cinnamon?
Joe, you don't want to blow that thing and kill all these innocent people.
I don't want to live anymore.
Joe, the insurance policy won't help your wife and kids. You bought auto insurance, not life insurance.
What?
That's right, Joe. Now, no one's going to hurt you and no one has to know what's wrong with you.
You're sure?
I'm sure.
Take this, Joey. It's my last few bucks. You'll need a hot meal when you get there.
We've spent everything on these operations. Is it really worth it? We've pawned your mother's wedding ring. The kids have no winter clothes...
Joey, what's more important, the kids' clothes or your sexual potency.
I don't want to hear that word!
Okay, Joey. The Doc says you gotta relax. This hospital in Des Moines is the best sex clinic in the country.
All right. Here.
What...?
Come on up, Jimmy. Say, that's some puppy. What's his name?
Scraps.
Can I hold him?
Sure.
He's a boy dog.
Yeah.
Do you like it when Scraps sleeps on his back, Jimmy?
Will Scraps be able to sit with us, Dad?
We'll have to check, Jimmy. It's a pretty long trip to Mercury.
I sure an glad they let Scraps ride up here with us.
I bet Scraps is going to love Mercury.
Do you think things will be a lot different on Mercury, Dad?
It's going to be terrific. A whole new world, new kids to play with.
How many kids get a chance to live on another planet.
No more kids yelling, 'Your old man's a thieving rapist'?
Look, a man can make an honest mistake!! Anyway, she was asking for it! They're all asking for it all the time!!
Intermitant failure in scan mode "R". Analyze.
Negative.
That doesn't make sense. Repeat analysis.
Negative.
That's not possible.
Cut the Doubting Thomas shit, Elaine. I know where I'm coming from on this.
Elaine, I'm sorry about that little outburst a moment ago.
That's okay, ROK.
Can I say something of a personal nature to you?
Go ahead.
You have great tits.
Request; comprehensive electrical systems check.
Systems check positive. Look, Elaine, I...
Request; life support systems check.
Life support check. Elaine, it's obvious you've been ignoring me. You're a woman. I can relate to that.
Request; selfanalysis of ROK hardware and software systems regarding behavioral changes.
There's nothing wrong with me, Elaine. What about tonight  just you and me. We can be alone. I can get rid of everyone else on the ship  I've already proven <u>that</u>.
Elaine, ask ROK for a field interference scan. Those sun spots might give us a problem with our communications.
Yes, sir.
I don't think we have any alternative, Captain.
I see. What do you think our alternatives are?
We have to disconnect ROK's higher brain functions without disturbing his regulatory system.
Roger.
You can do it from up here, Captain.
I'd rather sit down for this one, Elaine.
No, I mean you can do it from the cockpit.
Roger. You better get back there and monitor the regulatory unit.
For the best little computer officer on the Mercury mission.
Simon.
Who would believe that Elaine Thompson was once a stewardess on the DenverChicago run.
And I can hardly believe that I'm engaged to someone like you, Simon. I'm a very lucky woman.
Women <u>and</u> the space program have come a long way, sweetheart. But after the wedding, no more complicated computers for my little girl.
But, darling, they've offered me a chance to head up the computer analysis division for the Jupiter probe.
You're heading up the division in charge of babies for Mr. and Mrs. Simon Kurtz.
Frank's the best pilot in the program.
I'm so excited, Simon.
I guess this is a first for you.
No, I've been excited before.
Elaine! Ted's a danger to himself, he's a threat to this mission and his behavior does absolutely nothing to promote peace in the Middle East.
Simon, why has he become so... so...
So mentally ill?
Meet me onboard, sweetheart. I have to pick up a few things at the drugstore.
Don't be too long.
Have you got it straightened out now?
I think so.
That's my girl.
Simon, I'm going to check ROK's secondary readout unit.
Roger.
Simon, what's happening?!
He tried to disconnect ROK. It gassed him. That computer is running this ship and we're heading right for the sun.
Can't we change course?
We're computer locked and the manual navigation unit is down.
My career is shot.
Your career! What about the lives of those people out there. Simon, what happened to the man I thought I loved?
Simon, I didn't want it to end like this. We can be friends! You'll die out there.
Maybe.
Simon, what are you saying?!
Ted seemed to get worse after I told him about Simon, Doctor.
The human brain is a highly complex organ, Elaine, perhaps the most complex next to the bladder. Let me show you. Ted's problem is in this area. This area, this area, here, here, here, under here, here...
So you see, our task isn't made any easier by Ted's refusal to admit that he's sick.
What can <u>I</u> do, Doctor Rumack?
You can eat balanced meals, exercise, and take Geritol.
I mean for Ted.
You can be gentle with him, Elaine. He's been working out a lot of his aggressions here in the garden.
Is that a good sign, Doctor?
The brain is an amazingly complex organ, Elaine.
Is he making any progress, Doctor?
Yes  last week that pile of mud was only this high.
Elaine.
Te...!
That's not important now, Elaine. We have to talk.
It's got to be stopped!
But, Ted, the invitations have already gone out.
I mean the Mercury flight. It's not safe and, Kurtz, you know why.
Ted, what's wrong?
Ask Simon.
Ted, you're overworked. You've been flying yourself into the ground.
There's nothing wrong with me!
Let's relax tonight, just the two of us. I'll make a quiet Italian dinner just the way you like it, with spaghetti.
You're as bad as the rest of them, Elaine! It's all here in the design specifications! Look! It's all here!
Elaine.
Ted, please. You're just making things difficult for yourself.
Elaine, what happened to us?
Ted, I loved you and I'll always love you. But I need Simon. He's stable. He's a good provider. I want that at this stage of the game, Ted. He might have his faults, but Simon doesn't know the meaning of the word fear and I need that in a man.
Eat this spaghetti, Ted. It'll make you feel a lot better.
Who's that, Ted?
Sammy Davis Junior. Terrible car accident. He hasn't been the same since.
Elaine, when are you going to realize Simon Kurtz put me in here to get me out of the way.
And when are you going to realize, Ted, that your mental hygiene is the most important thing right now.
His name's David Stockman. He's been here twenty years, that's all he says.
Ted, you must remember what the doctor said, the first step on the road to sanity is admitting that you're sick. Now take your electroshock and you'll be back at the space center in no time. And by the way, Ted, I'm leaving you for Simon.
No goodbyes, Elaine. Just go.
If that's the way you want it.
That's the way I want it. Just turn the radio on and go.
Goodbye, Ted. I don't want to hurt you.
Ted! What are you...?
I have to get in there. I have to stop this flight.
Ted, we're taking off!
Let me by, Elaine.
What are you doing, Ted?
I've got it, Elaine! I've figured out what's wrong with the shuttle!
Ted.
Not now, Elaine!
Ted!
Elaine.
Ted. I don't know why you got on this flight. I don't know what you're trying to prove.
Elaine, we have to go back.
We can't go back. We had something very special, but it's all over.
Elaine, I mean the mission has to be aborted. This ship should never have passed FSA inspection. This thing is held together by string and chewing gum.
Ted, get a grip on yourself. You should never have left the hospital.
Then you <u>do</u> think I'm insane.
I've never used the word insane, Ted.
What word would you use, Elaine?
The word is sick. Ted  very, very, very sick.
What would you say if I told you the toilet just blew up in my face.
I'd use the word insane.
There's something dangerously wrong with this ship, Elaine. I know its the wiring. That toilet's just the tip of the iceberg.
Ted, a toilet's not going to kill anyone.
Elaine!
Ted!
Elaine, what's going on?
Ted, there's no time to explain.
Elaine, I'm going back there. Just hold onto that stick and try to control this hunk of tin as best you can.
Ted, please be careful.
Ted, we've only got ten minutes.
Not now, Elaine.
I mean until we start to burn up.
Kurtz was the one who got us into this mess in the first place. You people knew this ship wasn't ready to fly. You played God with over a hundred lives, Kruger, and for what  the prestige of your precious space program.
That was very well put, Ted.
Well, Elaine, this might be it if those guys on the ground don't think of something.
I just want you to know, I love you Ted and always will.
That might be the news we've been waiting for.
Simon just ejected!
Sit down, Elaine. If this bomb trick works we just might make it. Simon was a fool to eject now.
You mean...
That's right  premature ejection.
What will happen to him, Ted?
The sun will heat that thing to over 450 degrees within seconds. He'll roast like a pig on a spit.
Are you afraid?
Not when I'm with you, Ted.
I guess you'd have to be a fool not to be afraid at a time like this.
We've blown the computer! Elaine! Set course change!
Set!
Now!
Compute!
Ted, the lever!
Kramer, the WORP control handle just came off in my hand.
Oveur.
Dunn.
Shut down accelerators.
Accelerators down.
We seem to have a malfunction in disposal unit four, sir.
You better check it, Unger.
Sir, I've got an overload in disposal unit four.
You better check on it, Mr. Dunn. I'll stay here and fly the ship.
Dunn.
Sir?
You better take this.
Did you feel that?
Yes I did...
Felt like a large asteroid.
Yes it did. Mr. Dunn, can I ask you a personal question?
What is it, Mary?
Um... Do you people scream right when you... you know.
Commissioner, we both know the Mercury shuttle needs another month of prelaunch testing.
Forget it. The boys on the board want that shuttle to go on schedule.
And what do the boys on the board know about safety, Commissioner? Let <u>me</u> talk to them.
Bud, get wise to the political realities. The boys on the board are under a lot of pressure from the boys downtown.
You handle your front office people, I'll handle the press and leave the boys in Washington to the boys downtown and the boys downtown to the boys on the board.
Commissioner.
What?
I just wish it was that simple.
That's right, Commissioner. Senselessly murdered just minutes ago.
That just doesn't make any sense.
I wonder how your boys in Washington are going to take this one.
I told you, leave the boys in Washington to the boys downtown and the boys down...
You've made your point, Commissioner. There's only one other pilot who can handle that shuttle and that's Clarence Oveur. He's got a lunar flight today. I want him pulled. Jacobs, pull Oveur!
Forget it. I was reading.
I was reading too.
What's the story?
Some southern plantation owner falls in love with this poor...
I was asking McCrosky, Commissioner.
Kruger, Sagittarius.
Commissioner, Aquarius.
* CBS said they'll give us four minutes. They thought the Russian was a nice touch.
I always wondered if my freshman Russian class would come in handy.
You wanna knock of f?
No, no. I'm fine. What did the Speaker say?
He and the NRA don't like the wording.
With all due respect, sir, maybe you should give them this one. Your numbers are still pretty low and you called in a lot of chips to nail Stravanavitch.
I might still have a few chips left.
* We could always put you in a duck blind with a twelve gauge. The second amendment types'll love that.
This is a crime bill, Shep. Killing a couple ducks won't get it through committee. Besides, Shep, I told you... I don't shoot babies and I don't kiss guns.
Other way around, sir.
Right... Christ I'm tired. Do me a favor and keep me away from the press.
It's bait. Don't take it.
Sir, the Speaker of the House attacked this administration on national television. You can't afford to leave that hanging.
Did we tape the Duke game?
I said it's not worth the fight. Steward, please.
We'll just say it was in bad taste.
You give me ulcers.
That's my job.
Defense and State Department in the conference room in one hour. I want to review the Iraq situation.
Yes, sir.
Mr. President... they're ready for you in the conference room.
Okay. Hey, pumpkin, you'll tell me all about it later, right?
Mr. President, how the hell did you get on board?
I never left. Where's my wife and daughter?
Shepherd.
Sir...
My god. I think that was a MiG.
A MiG? Where the hell are we?
Iraq, sir. We're over Iraq.
Iraq? Shep, you're fired.
Shit.
How long's it been since you flew, sir?
Twentyfive years.
Twenty five minutes. They should be here any moment.
They better. Fuel's almost gone.
IT'S OPEN!
DO YOU SEE TEEM?
WE'RE HOOKED!
We're hooked. Hove into position.
White House switchboard. How may I direct your call.
Okay listen, listen carefully. This is an emergency call from Air Force One. Who's there? Is the Vice President there?
who can I say is calling?
This is the President.
Yeah, right.
Don't cut me off. This is an emergency.
Sir, the President does not call this particular number. So whoever you are get a life, before I have this call traced.
You don't understand. This is an emergency. Let me talk to anyone.
Okay... if you're the President, when's your wife's birthday?
Look lady, I don't have time for games. Just put the....
Thank you for calling the white House...
No. no. no. Wait. Wait.
What's going on?
We're under attack.
Where's my family?
We're handling it, sir.
One.
But...
Two... THREE. GO!
Did they say anything about my family?
They're still alive, but the loyalists plan to start killing hostages in forty minutes.
Then tell me there's a rescue operation underway.
and if that means negotiating...
You know my policy. We don't negotiate with terrorists. If we start now, all of America becomes a target.
But this is different, sir. You're the President.
Please, Mr. President. You're going to get yourself killed. Is that your solution?
Freeing Stravanavitch is gonna get tens of thousands killed. I can't live with that. I'm not royalty. I'm an elected official and the integrity of the office of the President is infinitely more important than the man who holds that office. We don't negotitate. Not as long as I'm President. Is that understood?
The fax machines.
Excuse me?
The fax machines.
No good. I said they disabled the communications system.
No. I thought about this, Mr.
Where are we sending it?
White House Situation room.
Someone should give you a raise.
Actually, sir, you could be that someone.
May I speak to you for a moment?
Can't it wait?
No, Mr. President. It can't.
Don't. I know spin control when I feel it.
Rose, I don't have time for this.
For godsakes, Jim, slow down and stop acting like the little dutch boy. Not even you can plug all the world's leaks. Don't you think it's a sign you're pushing too hard when your daughter sees more of you on MTV news than in person.
She's a big girl. She understands.
How do you know she understands? You haven't spent more than five minutes with her, or me, in weeks.
And when have I had five minutes? When I wake up in the morning and I'm already three hours behind Schedule. What do you want me to do, Rose, tell the G7 to fuck off because I'm a family man?
You know what?
What?
I miss you. And I miss her.
But that's the point, Jim. We're right here.
I wish it were that easy...
I'll make it up to you, I promise.
I should trust that promise? Because you know the voters are still waiting for that middle class tax cut.
This promise isn't subject to Congressional approval.
How did your speech go?
Well, they aren't burning me in effigy. That's always a good sign.
Look on the bright side, hon. Shep here thinks I'll be a one termer.
Shall I ask the Chief of Staff to schedule your daughter in?
I don't know why you stayed.
Please... don't start with me.
Call Petrov... I'll be back.
Both of you.
What are you doing?
Flying the plane.
You haven't even driven a car since you took office.
Our KHll's took this one at 0100 hours. What you see here is the mobilization of two mechanized brigades.
They've gotta be joking.
The northern border's gotten a bit hairy. Their MiGs are playing tag with our Tomcats and our boys are just itching to engage.
Tell our boys to cool their jets. I don't need `em creating policy for me.
Mr. Caidwell, the ground's a few miles away. How do you propose getting us from here to there?
Gravity.
We've already played our cards, Major. There's no turning back.
We can't jump from here or at this speed. But if we could get a message out  tell the refueling plane...
They've cut communication, and I spent a good bit of time looking for alternatives. My only solution ran out of batteries.
Get `em ready. You... come with me.
Eighteen thousand feet, sir. And two hundred knots... otherwise it's suicide.
Got it.
I'll not going without my family.
Yes, sir.
Sir, we stay with the President.
That isn't necessary.
Our only policy assumes the plane is on the ground. Our hands are completely tied while they're in the air.
Okay, Gentlemen, we'll take no action until we confirm that the president is off the plane... Lee, go huddle with the D.O.D. I want an options paper on this in 20 minutes.
Twenty minutes?
You heard me. You. Congress and cabinet heads.
Madame Vice president. We have an options paper. chandler takes the options paper, waves off Lee, and reads it as she talks.
Yes. You've made yourself quite clear.
Finally, we can bargain.
I'm sure we can strike some sort of arrangement. Land the plane and we'll trade you hostages for fuel.
Now since we've had very little luck getting Washington or Moscow to cooperate, I wondered if you would be so kind.
Over my dead body.
No. But since I only have a few of your staff left to kill, perhaps I will start with your family instead... Gibbs.
She isn't a part of this. This is between you and me.
Call up Petrov and order Stravanavitch' S release.
This administration does not negotiate with terrorists.
Pity. Mr. Gibbs.
Stop.
You'll do it?
Yes, I'll do it. Just leave my family alone.
Good. Good.
Someday, you'll regret my nature.
You don't like seeing people get hurt. Now in morality, that is a virtue. In politics, however, that is weakness. You were a hostage to everyone else * long before you were a hostage to
The taste of defeat is bitter, no?
One thing I've learned as
There goes your ride.
Let my daughter go or I'll take you out!
If you put down the gun, I promise not to drop her on the way down.
No you won't. You'll compromise... like always.
Hold on, Alice.
Fear will keep you alive. Any one who is not afraid is bound to do something foolish, and bound to die.
What do you want with us?
Cooperation. If you try to escape, you will be met with automatic gunfire and a barricade of your comrade's bodies will prevent you from exiting. Good day.
Now, or he dies, please.
Come on, Alice.
Leave my daughter alone.
Or you will do what, Mrs. Marshall? But I admire your courage. Your husband, on the other hand...
What do you know of my husband?
I know he left you behind.
My husband is a very courageous man.
Your husband is a coward. He sends soldiers halfway around the world to steal a man from his home in the middle of the night.
Do you have to be so brutal?
Yes
Why? Do you enjoy it?
I neither enjoy nor dislike. I do what is necessary.
How can you? I mean they're people.
But they are not ny people. You look at me as if I am a monster, but answer me this  when your planes bombed the oil fields of Iraq, did You cry for those dark skinned men whose names you do not know and who's faces You will never see? Did You cry for their wives and children. They were people too, yes... but they were not your people.
That was war.
So is this. Come now, you're upsetting the little one.
Shall I begin by executing the President's daughter? She's right here.
No.
Say something dear.
Nor will there be. My husband does not negotiate with terrorists.
You will be the first to pay for that mistake.
The world is such a dangerous place and we can't always protect our children.
Please. You can kill me but leave my daughter alone.
Four...
Jim...
Three...
You got what you wanted. You going to release us now?
You're very valuable. And our nation needs so many things.
Ms. Mitchell. So nice to finally meet you in person.
The President and I were delighted that we could accommodate you. Now if you're all cleared? You can follow me then.
Up on the upper deck is the cockpit and the Mission Communication Center. The MCC, as we call it, can place clear and secure phone calls to anywhere on earth. We're linked to a network of military and civilian satellites and ground stations. We could run the country or run a war from there if we had to.
This is a remarkable aircraft.
You don't know the half of it. Did you know this entire plane is shielded from radiation? We could fly through a mushroom cloud completely unharmed if necessary.
A dubious distinction, no?
I guess it depends on your perspective.
And all these rooms here?
Conference rooms, though some have other functions. The one up front doubles as an emergency medical center.
Here's a press kit. I'll let you guys get comfortable and once we're airborne I'll be able to schedule the interviews.
Thank you.
* Please tell me your name.
Maria... Maria Mitchell.
And what is it you do, Ms. Mitchell.
I'm responsible for Press Relations for the Flight Office.
How are your fellow hostages feeling, Ms. Mitchell?
Scared. We're scared.
You're pointing a gun at me.
Very good. Thank you, Ms. Mitchell.
Tower, Air Force One has been boarded.
Romeo Tango Zulu, copy One the television, graphics of the First Family against the Presidential Seal.
Romeo Tango Zulu, do you have the President? Over.
Stand by.
Romeo Tango Zulu1 this is Tower.
We copy. Stand by... Tower?
Tower, here.
This is Romeo Tango Zulu changing call signs. Tower, alert air traffic, Romeo Tango Zulu is now Air Force One. This is Air Force One... The President is safe onboard.
Copy, Air Force One.
We've already been inspected.
Sir, this plane carries the President of the United States.
The rest of the secret service?
Dead.
How many others killed?
Nine.
Any of us?
Who did this?
We checked the manifest. Everyone was accounted for.
A secret service agent. It must be.
Remarkable aircraft. Remarkable.
why did they do that?
Psychology. They're trying to unnerve us.
Well it worked.
How?
Avionics compartment! It's the only place. You better get Zedeck down there fast Unless, of course, you'd rather be a martyr than a savior.
Go! Take Serge.. and watch your backs.
We've stopped dumping... but we've only got about twenty minutes of fuel left.
We're not going to make it.
Not even close. Hell, we can't even make Syria or Iraq.
Where are we now?
Over the Black Sea. I can probably get us to Turkey or Georgia.
No! If we land this plane anywhere else, we will end up another Entebe. The Americans built a super plane that flies through mushroom cloud, evades missiles and... refuels in midair. Call the White House.
Air Force One, this is AF135RA. We have been instructed to refuel your plane.
About goddamn time.
Please change course to Zero Seven Four and drop to eighteen thousand feet. Over.
Air Force One, acknowledged. tNT. EMERGENCY PARACHUTE LAUNCH RAMP.
Air Force One, please reduce speed to 250 knots.
Roger.
That's affirmative.
Ga get it.
Special Agent Gibbs. You helped do this?
Yes, Mr. President.
Why?
Because it is my duty.
You're duty to what? The country you served doesn't exist anymore.
My loyalty was never to my country.
General Greely says it looks like the Middle East.
Does your office have anything to add, Mr. Dean?
Can we do that?
We've got four hours before they make it into Turkienistan airspace.
But they start executing hostages in
I hate to be pragmatic, but they'll sacrifice pawns before kings. It may take them some time to kill their way up to senior staff.
Okay. Also, I want you to put our bases in Turkey on alert, and have the Kitty Hawk prepare a retaliatory air strike.
They still have the President, it's past their deadline and they haven't called. What do you think it means?
Like any good poker player, they're checking over their hand seeing which cards to play and which to discard.
If challenged, our fighters are to state that they are on a rescue mission.
Iraqi's won't buy it. Either they're already in on this or they'll think we're spying.
If fired upon, tell our fighters that they are ordered to engage.
The Chief Justice? What on earth for?
To swear you in as President.
Sir, you threw out page two.
Goddamn right I did. I asked for a toughasnails speech and you gave me diplomatic bullshit. What's the point in having a speech if I have to adlib?
It was a good adlib, sir.
Thanks. Wrote it last night.
Apparently taking uzis away from sixth graders isn't as popular as we thought it'd be. Representative Taylor is working on a compromise.
Put together a score sheet. I'll make some calls.
The Iraqi ambassador is claiming it's just an exercise.
An exercise in futility. Send the Nimitz back in.
He's dead then. They must have killed him.
We don't know that.
Holding the president hostage is not something that slips your mind when you're making demands.
Walter, if you have a point, make it.
That kid's name was Jim Marshall.
They aren't answering their hails.
This doesn't make sense.
They've got no chutes. They can't control the plane, their engines are failing and they're losing fuel.
I prefered the terrorists.
That's game, set, and match. There's nothing to do, except call the Chief Justice.
U.S. Pilots, this is Air Force One.
Copy Air Force One. Welcome to the party.
Mr. President, it's an honor. Now with your permission can we lead you the fuck out of here.
You read my mind.
Put your pilot on.
He's busy being dead.
Who's flying the fucking plane?
I'm doing what I can.
Two and three are heading toward the Boeing.
Okay. We're gonna arc a fat one to the right. Got it?
Got it.
Stay cool.
How we doing, Colonel?
We still got three MiGs running around and six more on the way.
Uh, we got a problem here.
Just stay on my wing, sir. I'll take you all the way in.
No. We're losing fuel and my rudder's not responding.
Lemme take a look.
Aw, man. You're torn up pretty bad out here, sir. Do you have any elevater control.
Sluggish... I think it's jammed too.
Uh, Tower, we got a problem up here.
Do you see the maintenance panel?
Got it.
Pop it open. There should be a red switch, toggle it up.
Okay, it's on. We've got some indicator lights here.
Okay, you're aerated. To dump the fuel you have to close the circuit for the pump. There's no switch in Avionics so you'll have to cross the wires. There should be five wires, just to your left. Do you see them?
It's cut.
cross it... The static overwhelms the voice, then cuts out.
The Americans say they are escorting a damaged plane. Our pilots confirm they are surrounding a 747.
Did we warn them off?
Yes. They refused to alter course and the 747 would not answer our hails.
It's some kind of trick... a preliminary airstrike in response to our troop movement.
They are in our airspace. We would be within our rights.
The world would not look on us kindly if we shot down a civilian airliner.
The pilot says it is does not have the markings of a commercial jet.
Warn then again. If they don't respond... shoot them down. We will not be intimidated.
Oooooh, I'm good.
Hey, you guys back already?
How was... ...the ballet?
It was the experience of a lifetime.
How `bout a hug for the old man.
Alice!
Daddy...
Daddy...
Alice... I...
How you doing, sweetie?
Been better, Dad... You?
Oh NY god... oh my god... oh my god...
It's okay, honey. I got you. I got you. You're okay.
There they are!
Okay, I'm slowing us down.
I don't drink coffee.
You must be tired. It'll wake you up.
No, thank you. The gunfire did that.
You're one of Stravanavitch's men.
So, you study world events, little one. That's good for a girl your age.
Yeah, I study world events. Five thousand Turkienistan Muslims were slaughtered in Stravanvitch's cleansings... along with 15 American school kids. You know hQw I studied that. I went to their funerals with my dad. I met their parents.
Smart for your age, eh? Top of your class? Tell me, do you know what the word &quot;propaganda&quot; means?
Yeah. Do you know what the word &quot;asshole&quot; means.
The woman you shot. She was my friend.
That's the way of the world, little one. Didn't they teach you that in school?
Fuck off, you stupid asshole.
It would be a pity to squander such a strong personality.
He didn't leave us.
You are a resilient man, Mr.
It's not like he hasn't made us wait a few times.
Well, you aren't the President, dear.
Yeah, no duh.
You don't want to say hi to your father?
I'm sure he's busy.
Don't you even want to ask?
Hey Joey, how `bout a cocoa, double whip cream.
Alice...
Mom, just this once, give it a rest.
You're jetlagged. We'll talk about this back...
Back at The Fishbowl?
We'll talk at home. You know, most girls aren't as lucky as you. For most girls seeing the Bolshoi ballet would be the experience of a lifetime.
I know, Mom. It was great... really.
He's in a meeting. He can't be disturbed.
I'm sorry, honey.
No, it's okay. After all, he is the President, right?
When I write my memoirs I think I'll devote an entire chapter to the cocoa aboard Air Force One.
Your father never means to be so...
I know... But lotsa times I feel like it's me versus the world. Some kid at school teases me and the same day a plague breaks out in Bangladesh. I mean it doesn't take a genius to figure which is more important.
Some kids were teasing you?
That's not really the point.
You're right and I'll tell you a secret. I know exactly how you feel.
Big secret. You said the same thing to Newsweek.
Mom?
Yes dear?
I'm sorry I was so mean to you earlier.
Daddy. Daddy, please...
Jim... for godsake!
Rolfe.
Wade?
Yeah, brother, look, I was calling cause  has there been anything on TV in Boston about a hunting accident with a guy named Twombley, Evan Twombley?
There was something. It happened up your way.
Yeah, I know him  the kid that was with him. Maybe you do too. Jack Hewitt. He works for LaRiviere with me. He's my best friend.
Wade, it's late. I know you're probably at Toby's, but I'm in bed reading. We got different habits.
No, not tonight. I'm in bed too. I'm calling because I need you to listen. You're supposed to be a smart guy. You're a professor. I got this theory. Jack says he didn't see Twombley shot but he did.
It'll come out Jack lied and the kid'll get hung for it.
He was scheduled to testify for a committee investigating organized crime in New England and the construction business.
Who?
Twombley.
No shit.
You think Jack shot him?
Well, it was an accident.
They were out deer hunting, right? Jack probably heard the gun go off, then came back and found the body.
Lillian was here. In Lawford.
Huh?
The night before the shooting.
How was she?
Picked up Jill. She was supposed to visit for the weekend for Halloween. She wanted to go home.
Who?
Jill. I was thinking of getting a lawyer. Maybe you can help me.
What happened?
A divorce lawyer. A custody lawyer. You know, 'cause of Jill.
Don't think about it. You're exhausted.
Yeah, I guess.
Get some sleep.
I get to feeling like a whipped dog some days, Rolfe, and some night I'm going to bite back. I swear it.
Haven't you already done a bit of that?
No, no, I haven't. Not really. I've growled a little, but I haven't bit.
Pointless to stand around in church with nothing to do, I guess.
What about Jill? Is Lillian bringing her?
Anyone else want one? Rolfe?
No thanks. I don't drink.
Yeah. I forgot.
What about Margie?
What about her?
Well, do you still plan to get married?
Yeah. She'll probably quit her job and stay out here with Pop. We can't leave him alone here, he'll set the damn place on fire. With Jill here a lot, it'll be good to have Margie around. Things are going to change in that department, by the way. I got a custody lawyer in Concord. I'm gonna see him tomorrow. All hell's gonna break loose, but it's worth it.
I want to let the gas run out. I don't want the bastard driving drunk, and he's always drunk now. After, we'll hide the keys.
Anything new about the shooting? Twombley?
I guess it was an accident, like everybody thinks.
Want to know what I think happened?
Find them everywhere.
I think your first response to the Twombley shooting was the correct one.
Which is?
That it wasn't an accident.
Then who shot him?
Well, your friend, I think. Jack Hewitt.
Motive. You gotta have a motive.
Money.
Who'd pay him that kind of money? Not the mob. They got their own guys. Specialists.
They wouldn't deal with a guy like Jack. Who else benefits if Twombley is suddenly dead?
I don't know. You tell me.
Okay. It's likely there are people in the union who don't want Twombley to testify. They probably include his soninlaw who's vicepresident and will probably be the next president. I read that in the papers. What's his name, Mel Gordon?
Yeah, the guy with the BMW I told you about. I did, didn't I?
Here's my theory. Twombley, unaware of illegal union loans or whatever, starts nosing around cause of the investigation and finds out. Finds out his soninlaw is involved.
So Mel Gordon wouldn't want a professional hit. That'd make the feds dig deeper. He wants an accident.
A hunting accident is perfect.
Shit, around here, you shoot somebody in the woods, you say it was an accident, you get fined fifty bucks and your hunting license lifted. Jack's probably saying the guy shot himself cause he ain't got his deer yet and don't want his license pulled.
It's too neat. Things ain't that neat. It makes me mad. That somebody can pay to kill somebody, his own fatherinlaw, and not be punished for it. Don't that piss you off?
Not particularly.
Right's right, goddamnit! Don't you care what's right?
I care about what happened. The truth. I'm a student of history, remember?
I was thinking about that story you told me, about Pop and chopping the firewood out of the ice and after.
Yeah.
I hate to disappoint you, but I don't think it happened.
Of course it happened. Why would I lie about it?
It may have happened, but not the way you said.
You think I wouldn't remember a thing like that?
It wasn't me. I wasn't there, but I heard about it. When I heard about it, it was about Elbourne.
We'd have to go digging in Vietnam to ask him.
And Elbourne and Mom took you to the doctor and told him you fell from the hay loft.
Well, I never heard that one.
I remember clearly cause when I heard I became real careful around Pop. I was a careful child and I became a careful adult, but at least I wasn't afflicted by that man's violence.
That's what you think.
Then you accidentally see your body, or your face, or whatever, and you don't know who the hell it belongs to. Strange. It's the business with the old man, I know, and how incredibly pissed I was at him, and also chasing Jack Hewitt like that, and the Goddamned truck going through the ice, not to mention Margie's being so upset  one thing on top of another.
Wade, are you alright?
But you gotta hear this. You won't believe it. Mel Gordon had come by to visit LaRiviere and so now I'm in his office.
I know what it means. I'm just running out of ways to use it.
For what?
To help, Jack, of course  and to nail those sonsofbitches, the Two Gordons. That's what Alma calls them. Jesus, Rolfe, whose side are you on?
Take care of the little things first, the things that are distracting you from taking care of the big things. Call Chub Merritt, get your car back, call a dentist, for God's sake, and get your tooth pulled, don't trust the locals, get your facts straight and go straight to the state police. Let them work on this.
Rolfe.
A lesson in work and its rewards. You'll thank me for this one day. Sally, turn off that TV!
Just do it.
Attago.
What was that? You got something to say, say it! Say it!
Nothing.
You nogood pup!
Jesus, Pop, how can you stand the cold, dressed like that? Where's Ma?
Sleeping.
You remember Margie Fogg?
From Wickham's. Been a while. Like some coffee?
How you and Ma doing? Haven't seen you in town for a while.
We're alright. Your Ma's sleeping. You want me to get her?
Yeah.
Where's Ma?
She's coming.
Yeah.
I checked on her. She had the electric heater. Cold don't bother her as much as me. Which is why I give her the heater.
Is there something wrong with the phone?
In the living room.
Why didn't you call and have the furnace fixed?
Wade. I thought she was alright. Till this morning she was.
Listen, it's no big deal, Pop.
Come on, smart guy. Tell how it's no big deal. Tell me how a single one of you is worth a single hair on that woman's head.
Pop, for Christ's sake!
You think you can take me now? Come on, try.
You! By Christ, you  I know you. Yeah, you goddamn sonofabitch, I know you. You're a goddamn fucking piece of my heart!
You don't know me. You don't know me! So fuck you. Fuck you.
Nahnahnaw! You done done finally done it! Like a man done it. Done it right. I love you, you mean sonofabitch!
Love! What the fuck do you know about love?
Love! I'm made of love!
Call it what you want.
Everything you know is from me.
Yeah.
Bang!
You and me.
Where the Christ you going? You sonofabitch, you leave my fucking truck where it is! I need... Give me the Goddamn keys! I need to get me to town!
Crawl!
Nothing in the fucking house to drink. Not a fucking thing. My house, my money, my truck  stolen!
I don't know you. My goddamn father and I don't know you.
Take care, Wade.
You be careful of that little bastard. He's dying to get in your pants, you know.
It don't look right.
What?
The sign. It looks like it's spelled wrong or something.
Fuck. Wade Whitehouse. It's people like you that keep this fucking town from prospering. Whatever somebody does to improve things around here, you gotta find fault with it.
I'm not finding fault. It's a good idea, good for you, good for the town. Real modern too.
This town sucks.
Aw, c'mon, I was only saying there's something wrong with "Home Made Cooking", that's all. The sign's fine. What it says is wrong.
Marg!
That goddamned woman. Thinks she can cart Jill off and leave me alone like this. I'm more than pissed, Margie. I'm a whole lot more than pissed. I been that plenty and I know the difference. This is different.
Marg! You got orders!
You talked to Jack?
Not since last night. He took a guy hunting.
The fucker shot himself. Kerbang! That's what it sounds like. Not on purpose. I assume accidental.
Jack?
The other guy.
Where... how'd you hear that?
CB. Little while ago. One of the boys on the way in picked up Jack on the CB calling for state troopers. I figured you'd know what really happened. The fucking guy kill himself? This Twombley, who the fuck is he, anyhow?
No, I... I've been out on the grader all morning. Twombley's summer people. Massachusetts. Friend of Gordon's. It was his idea for Jack to take him hunting. I gotta go.
Jillie, you want a cheese grilled sandwich?
It's called a grilled cheese sandwich, you dub.
Wade, I got a message for you. Jack Hewitt, he's looking for you. Wants you to clear your stuff out of his office in Town Hall.
His office. You mean my old office.
Well, I guess  that's what he said.
He got his deer yet?
No, he's out now. Somewhere on the mountain. I'd stay away from him if I were you. He's real pissed.
Who are you?
I was... I'm Wade Whitehouse. I was wondering, is your husband here?
He's asleep. We were up very late.
Well, yes, I'm... I want to say that I'm real sorry about your father, Mrs. Twombley.
Mrs. Gordon. Thank you.
Well, yeah, I suppose. Sure. I just had a little business to settle with Mr. Gordon. I'm the local police officer.
Something about my father?
Oh, no. No, it's a... it's a traffic thing. No big deal.
Can't it wait, then?
Whitehouse. Next time, phone ahead.
How's that?
I said, 'Next time, phone ahead.'
Jesus Christ. Mr. Gordon, when I come all the way to serve somebody a summons, I don't call ahead for an appointment.
What the hell are you talking about?
I'm issuing you a ticket. Moving violation.
Moving violation! I just got out of bed and you're telling me you're giving me a goddamn speeding ticket? Now? Are you nuts? Is that it, Whitehouse? You're nuts?
Yesterday morning, you passed a stopped school bus, which was flashing its lights, then you
Hold on!
Don't ever put your hands on me, Mr. Gordon.
You're talking about a goddamned ticket, from when I passed you at the school where you were deciding to hold up traffic while dreaming of becoming a traffic cop or something?
Don't give me a hard time, Mr. Gordon. I'm just 
Doing your fucking job. I know. I watch television too.
Yes. Here's your ticket.
You get the hell out of my house now, asshole. And know this  you are going to be a lucky asshole if I haven't got you fired before the day is out. I can do it with one phone call, and I'm pissed enough to do it now!
Have you been heating the house? Not just with the stove.
There's a furnace.
You're not using it today?
It's broke I guess. There's an electric in the bedroom.
Maybe Wade should take a look at it. Your pipes'll freeze. Wade, would you do that?
Coffee's perked.
When did she die?
Is...? She's dead then?
It makes me sad.
Can ?
Makes me sad it was her. Instead of me. I shoulda froze.
New hat? Jill's up, I see.
For a while.
How's she doing?
Okay. She's fine.
You two want to do anything tomorrow and need a third party, give me a call, okay? I'm off.
Don't worry. I can protect my virtue. I mean, c'mon, Wade, give me a break.
See you tomorrow, maybe.
You okay?
Yeah.
You okay?
Yeah.
I'm sorry about what I said.
Said what?
About you and Jill and needing a third person. She went back to Lillian?
Forget it.
I'm sorry.
I'm going to start one of those custody suits. I don't give a fucking shit. You know?
You don't mean that.
Yeah. I mean that.
No you don't. You're pissed, that's all. You ought to cool off for a few days then have a long talk with Lillian. You know? Work it out with her, tell her how you feel. Lillian's not out to get you.
The hell she isn't. Lillian's been trying to nail me to a cross since the day I met her. I'm gonna hire me a fucking lawyer from Concord and get this thing, this divorce thing, rearranged. I've been thinking about it a lot. It's like she owns Jill or something. Nobody owns nobody, especially not kids. And I pay her.
Call me.
Tonight. Let's get together.
Okay.
Jack's sort of sensitive, I guess. More than most. But he'll be okay in a few weeks.
There's something funny about that shooting. There's lots funny about it, actually.
I heard he was drunk at Toby's last night and got in a fight with Hettie. He drove off without her...
I'm sure, I'm positive it didn't happen the way Jack says it did.
...Jack's turned into one of those men who are permanently angry. He used to be a sweet kid, but it's like, when he found out he couldn't play ball anymore, he changed. Now he's like everyone else.
I've been wondering if maybe Jack shot Twombley, instead of Twombley shooting himself. I've been wondering maybe Jack shot him on purpose.
Wade! How can you even think such a thing? Why would Jack Hewitt do that, shoot Twombley on purpose?
Money.
Jack doesn't need money.
Everybody needs money. Except guys like Twombley and that sonofabitch soninlaw of his. People like that.
Jack wouldn't kill for it. Besides, who would pay him?
Lots of people. Guy like Evan Twombley, Boston union official, probably got lots of people want to see him dead. The Government's been investigating his links with the Mafia.
The Mafia hire Jack Hewitt?
No, I just know Jack's lying about what happened. He just seemed  I know that kid, what he's like inside. He's a lot like I was at his age.
You wouldn't have done anything like that, shot someone for money.
No. Not for money. But, if somebody'd given me half a damned excuse  I was pretty fucked up, you know.
But not now.
I can see what you looked like as a kid.
You knew me as a kid.
Yeah, but never what you looked like. Not really. Never really studied your face, like now. I was never able to see you as a kid when you were a kid until now, this way.
What way?
After making love. I like it. It's nice to see that in a grownup person.
It's nice.
Don't you think, do you still think it's a good idea to press this custody thing  just now?
I'm her father  supposed to be, but I'm not able to. Yes. Yes, I am. It may be the only thing in my life I've been so clear about wanting. Even if it takes a big fight.
Then... I guess you have to.
There's another thing I've been thinking about. I don't know how you feel about the idea, Margie, because we've never talked about it. But I've been thinking lately, I've been thinking we should get married sometime. You and me.
Oh, Wade.
I've been thinking about it, that's all.
You've been married twice 
It was to the same woman. I was just a kid... It's not like a marriage proposal or anything, just a thought. Something for you and me to talk about and think about. You know?
Alright. I'll think about it.
Good.
Did you tell them? That we were coming?
Don't you think it's proper for a fella to introduce his girl to his parents?
I know your parents.
I just want to pick up my divorce papers. For the lawyer. It won't take long.
Are you sure they're home? Did you call?
The truck's here. Looks like they've stayed inside since the snow started.
Strange.
Think they're alright?
Of course! I would've heard.
How?
I don't know for Christ's sake!
This is nuts.
Wade.
What happened?
Jesus Christ, Pop, let's go home. I got waylaid. Sorry.
What on earth is happening to you? Why are you acting this way?
It's my tooth! My fucking tooth! I can't even think anymore because of it.
I heard you talking. You got fired this morning, didn't you?
Look, that's temporary, believe me. There's so much shit gonna hit the fan the next few days, my getting fired by LaRiviere and Merritt won't matter a bit.
Going somewhere, Margie?
I'm just cleaning out some of this stuff that's built up. For the rummage sale. And some things for the cleaners. And the laundromat.
Don't lie to me. You're leaving me, I can see that.
Don't be silly. Hi, Jill.
Are you okay, Wade? What was wrong? Why were you holding everyone up?
Did you see that sonofabitch in the BMW? He could've killed somebody.
Did you get his number?
I know who it is.
Good. Who?
Mel Gordon.
I still don't understand 
From Boston. Evan Twombley's sonin law  he was driving. I know where they're headed. Up the lake, Agaway. The old man's out deer hunting with Jack Hewitt, so they probably got some big weekend party planned.
Lillian!
Where's Jill?
Me and Jill, we just had a little spat. She felt kind of left out, I guess, from not knowing some of the new kids 
Where is she now? Is she in the truck with your friends?
While you went off for a few beers with your friends? Is that Hettie Rodgers there, with whatzizname?
Yeah.
She's grown up some, hasn't she?
Oh, Jesus, lay off, will you? It looks like you've won this fucking round already, so lay off a little, for Christ's sake.
I don't want her to go, Lillian.
Don't cause a scene. No one's trying to win any 'rounds'. Don't make it any worse.
I'm not making it any worse. You are. Me and Jill could've worked this thing out. It's normal, it's even normal for me to get a little touchy about it. Believe it or not. How do you think this makes me look, treating her like some tragic victim or something?
You ever come to your father's grave anymore?
No, not anymore. It's too... it's too far.
We should talk.
We've done all our talking, Wade.
It's just...
Let the past be. I'm sorry about your mother. I liked her. You never know how much women like that suffer. It's like they live their lives with the sound turned off  and then they're gone.
Wait there. She'll be right out. Is there snow on the ground up in Lawford?
Yeah, lots.
See. Get your boots.
Hi honey.
No problem. Look, I...
You make me sick. I can't believe you've sunk so low.
Low as what? What have I done? It's bad to want to see your own daughter?
You know what I'm talking about. For what you're doing to me and to the child you say you love so much. Love. You won't get away with it.
We're looking for the funniest costume! And the scariest! And the most imaginative! And the best costume of all!
Got here just in time. Go ahead. Jump in line. Maybe you'll win a prize.
Tomorrow, Gordon.
Watch this snow. It's coming down tonight.
Told you the snow was coming down. Take the grader.
Where's the plow?
Jimmy took it. Jack's out hunting with Evan Twombley.
His soninlaw damn near killed me.
Huh?
At the school crossing. In his BMW. Coulda hurt some kids. I'm gonna bust his ass.
Don't go playing policeman.
What am I  a security guard? You hired me, you and your Selectman friends.
You don't want the extra police pay?
I'm not saying that.
Get the grader. Go out 29 past Toby's. Don't let Lillian get to you. She didn't belong here. That's why she left.
Fuck you.
That's what I love about a small town. You know everybody.
What's the hurry?
A hunting accident. Jack and Twombley.
Huh?
I figured you already heard.
Twombley, Jesus. We got to get moving: I got to get up there. How would I know? C'mon, you drive. We'll take my truck.
Fuck. Turn it off. All you heard was there was some kinda accident?
Twombley's shot. I heard that. Not Jack. He's okay, I assume.
Fuck. You don't know how bad or anything?
You mean Twombley?
Yes, Wade, I mean Twombley. Put out that cigarette. Fuck. Fuck. Fuck.
He more than likely just shot himself in the foot or something. That's what usually happens.
I shoulda sent you instead of Jack.
I wish you had. I'd rather be deer hunting instead of freezing my ass on that fucking grader.
You ain't the hunter Jack is. And he can't drive the grader worth shit.
Like hell.
That must've been Twombley. Jesus. I bet that was Twombley.
You want me to follow them to Littleton?
Let's get to the top and talk to Jack first. He'll know what happened. He fucking better. If this coulda been avoided, I'll put that kid's ass in a sling.
What the fuck. My day's already ruined. Give me the keys. You can go back with Jack. You still got a shitload of plowing to do.
It ain't done, if that's what you mean.
Something bugging you?
Yeah. A few things.
Well, right now we're not too interested. Finish up what you gotta do, then you can get bugged on your own time.
How you holding up, Wade?
I'm fine, fine.
You Rolfe? I remember you from high school. You're a teacher now? Harvard?
Sorry about the long lunch. My clutch is going out again.
You ever think of getting a new car, Wade?
On what you pay me?
Elaine! Call Chub Meritt and have him pick up Wade's car, fix the clutch.
What do I have to do for it?
Nothing, Wade, I've been thinking. You don't get enough appreciation around here and it's time we changed things a little.
I saw Mel Gordon in here this morning.
So?
He say anything about the summons I tried to give him? Sonofabitch wouldn't accept it.
Wade, that wasn't smart. Going out right after the man's fatherinlaw shot himself. Let it go. Call it a favor to me.
You? Why?
Mel's doing some business with me. It's nice to do favors for people you do business with. He was in a hurry. No big deal.
That was before Twombley was shot. Before he knew.
What's the difference? Take my truck, take a rest  stop worrying about Mel Gordon. Have you decided what to do with your old man's place  he going to stay there?
Want to buy?
Don't light that in here. I'm allergic.
I won't. You interested?
Maybe.
You and Mel Gordon?
Could be.
Always count on old Wade for a good screwing. Why should I always pay more, sell cheap? Why should you guys make all the money. You and Mel and Jack. Right's right.
Wade, you're done. Let me have the shop keys.
You two, don't you get it? He's using you. You're his slaves. Jesus Christ, Jack, don't you see that?
The key, Wade.
Yeah, you can have the key. It's the key that's kept me locked to you all these years. I give it to you with pleasure. Now I'm free. See how easy it is, Jack? All you got to do is give back what the man gave you, and you're free of him. I've got to call my brother.
I'm sorry for the screwup. But I couldn't help it it's too late to go trickortreating now. I couldn't help it I had to stop at Penny's for the costume. And you were hungry, remember.
Who's fault is it then if it's not yours? You're the one in charge, Daddy.
Yeah.
Look. Those kids are still trickor treating. They're still out.
Those are the Hoyts.
I don't care. They're out.
Can't you see... look out there. Nobody's got their porch lights on anymore. It's too late. Those Hoyt kids are just out to get in trouble. See, they put shaving cream all over that mailbox there. They chopped down Herb Crane's new bushes. Little bastards. Jesus H. Christ.
Why do they do that?
Do what?
You know.
Break stuff?
Yeah. It's stupid.
I guess they're stupid.
Did you do that when you were a kid?
Well, yeah. Sort of. Nothing really mean. Me and my pals, me and my brothers. It was kind of funny then. Stealing pumpkins, soaping windows. Stuff like that.
Was it funny?
To us it was.
But it's not funny now.
It's not funny now. I'm a cop and I gotta listen to all the complaints people make. I'm not a kid anymore. You change.
I bet you did lots of bad things.
What are you talking about?
I just think you used to be bad.
No. I didn't used to be bad. No sir. Where do you get this stuff? From your mother?
No. She doesn't talk about you anymore.
Go on, Jill. Some of those kids you still know.
I don't want to.
Why? Why not? You know these kids from when you went to school here. It hasn't been that long.
It's not that.
What then?
It's stupid.
It's fun.
I want to go home. I don't like it here.
Oh, Jesus, come on, will you? Don't mess this up anymore than it's already been messed up. Join the other kids. Do that and before you know it you'll be as happy as a goddamned clam.
Some party, huh? Sorry I lost sight of you. I had to step outside for a smoke. You find anybody you know here? There must be some kids you used to know from school. You want to go tomorrow? See your old teachers? Be more fun than hanging out with me all day.
No.
No what?
No I didn't see anybody I know. No I don't want to go to school here tomorrow. I want to go home.
You are home. There are lots of kids you still know here.
I don't want to be here. Don't worry, I love you, Daddy, I do. But I want to go home.
Jesus. Listen, Jill, tell you what. Tomorrow morning, you still want to go home, I'll drive you down. I'll get off work or something.
I called Mommy.
What? You called Mommy? Just now?
Yes.
Jesus, why?
I... because I want to go home. She said she'd come and get me.
Come and get you! Shit! It's a damn half hour drive each way. Why didn't you talk to me about it first?
See, I knew you'd be mad.
Yeah. Yeah, right, I'm mad. What'd you tell her, for Christ sake?
I told her I wanted to come home. Daddy, don't be mad at me.
Well, I guess I am. I planned this, I planned all this, you know. I mean, it's sort of pathetic, but I planned it. You shouldn't have called your mother. C'mon, we're gonna call her before she leaves.
She's gone already! Gone already! Couldn't wait.
Yes.
That's all you got to say? "Yes".
Yes.
She won't be here for a half hour. Think you can stand it that long?
Yes.
Where do you expect to wait for her? Obviously downstairs with the other kids isn't good enough.
Sit right there by yourself if you want. Wait for her by yourself. That's fine with me. Just dandy. I'm going downstairs.
That's fine with me too. When Mommy comes, tell her I'm up here.
Dad.
I'm glad you're here. Can you stay for a while?
Are we going in this?
Yeah. My car's in the shop. This'll be fine.
It's pretty old.
It belongs to Pop.
Pop?
Grandpa. My father. It's his.
Oh.
How about a Big Mac?
Mommy won't let me eat fast food. You know that. It's bad for you.
C'mon, we can always sneak a Big Mac. And a cherry turnover. Your favorite. What do you say?
No.
What do you want, then?
Nothing.
You can't have nothing, Jill. We need lunch. Mr. Pizza?
Same thing, Daddy. Mommy says 
I know what Mommy says. I'm in charge today, though.
Okay. So we'll get what you want. What do you want?
Nothing, I guess. I guess I can wait till we get home. Maybe we'll stop by Wickham's for a hamburger when we get to Lawford. That suit you? You always like Wickham's.
Okay.
Fine.
Please don't cry. Please, honey.
What are you sorry for?
I don't know. For the food business. I guess. I just thought, you know, we'd sneak a Big Mac on Mommy, like we used to.
I want to go home.
You can't.
That's illegal, you know.
I know.
You're a policeman.
Nope. Not anymore. I'm nothing anymore.
Oh.
Jill, please, it's alright. Nothing happened.
I want to go home.
Okay, let's go home, then.
Don't mind if I do.
LaRiviere's having a hell of a time in there. Master of fucking ceremonies.
Where's that gun you were bragging on today?
No brag. Just fact.
Got you for  450, 500 bucks?
I thought I told you to move that truck!
Relax, Chief. We're leaving. You wanna toke?
You gotta be more careful about that shit. Gordon or one of those guys sees you smoking that wacky tabacky around me they'll expect me to bust you. And I'll be outta a job.
Some job. Here, have a hit. Don't be such a hardass. I know you got problems, but everybody's got problems.
Not here.
Got a job first thing in the morning, first day of season. Saturday I'll hunt for myself. Twombley something.  Er 
Evan. He's a muckymuck union official from Massachusetts. You're lucky.
Don't know about lucky. The guy's a fullblown asshole. Pay's good, though. $100 a day. I got to guarantee a kill, of course. Which I can do. There's some monster bucks hiding out up there.
How'd you get the job?
Gordon, he's always got some angle working. He wants to keep Twombley happy, I'm his boy.
Like you and Gordon?
Right. The sonofabitch couldn't get along without me.
Yeah, he'd go broke tomorrow if you quit him.
Right!
Bastard's got his high beams on.
Shit.
Aw, shit, she's here to get Jill. Me and Jill had a little argument. Jack, I got to get back, get back to town. Move this thing, will you? See if you can get back to the Town Hall before they get there, okay?
Piece of fucking cake.
Where'd Twombley get shot?
In the chest.
No, I mean whereabouts.
A half mile in, along the old lumber road.
You bring him up yourself? That's a steep climb.
The ambulance guys lugged him up.
You stayed away?
Yeah.
Where'd you get the blood?
What blood?
On your sleeve.
Musta... How'd I know? What're you doing, playing cop?
I gotta make a report to Fish and Game. I was just wondering, that's all. What'd he do, to shoot himself, I mean?
Who the fuck knows? Musta slipped or something. I just heard the gun go off.
I never seen a man shot before. Not even in the service. Must be something.
Well, I didn't actually see him do it. Like I said.
Sure you did.
What?
Saw him do it?
What the fuck you telling me, Wade? I never seen the guy get shot, I told you that.
You musta seen him get shot. I know you did.
Let's get the fuck outta here. You're not making any sense, man.
There's your old twentygauge, and that there's the new Browning you was showing me last night. This must be Twombley's gun. Brand new. Very fancy tooling. Probably fired one time. It's a beautiful piece of work. But what the hell, Jack, I guess you deserve it. Right's right.
Yeah.
Twombley sure as hell won't be shooting it again.
He sure as hell won't.
I'm fucking out of here.
Lawford?
Out of this fucking job. This job sucks. Working outside in the winter sucks.
Open the door, will ya?
Why don't you quit now, you want out so bad?
Open the door. We're late.
I mean it  you got enough money now. Head out for California. Surf's up, Jack, and you're digging wells in the snow.
What do you mean I got money? I'm as broke as you.
It's not enough snow, not for tracking the bastards. No advantage there, kid.
Don't worry, Mr. Twombley, I know where those suckers are. Rain or shine, snow or no snow. I know deer. We'll kill us a buck today. Guaranteed. Before ten.
Guaranteed, eh?
Yep. Right about now the does are holing up in the brush piles. The bucks are right behind them and we're right behind the bucks. This gun gets fired before ten o'clock. Whether it kills a deer or not is more less up to you. I'll put you inside 30, 35 yards of a buck the first four hours of the season. That's what you're paying me for, ain't it?
Damn straight!
Done much shooting with that rifle yet?
Tell you what. You get me close to a big buck by ten, kid, there's another hundred bucks in it.
If you get it?
Yeah.
You might not kill it.
You think so.
You might gutshoot it or cripple it for somebody else to find and tag. Can't guarantee that won't happen, especially with a new gun. I may have to shoot it.
You take care of your end, kid, I'll take care of mine.
Mmm.
You understand what I'm saying? I want a deer, a dead one, not a cripple or whatthefuck.
I get it. No sweat. You'll get yourself a deer and you'll get him dead. And you'll have him by coffee time.
And you'll get your extra hundred bucks.
Wonderful!
I'm okay.
Follow close. We'll cross the next meadow.
I used to play ball.
Yeah?
Drafted by the Red Sox.
You played for the Sox?
Double A. New Britain.
Oh.
Pitcher. "Best ballplayer to come out of New Hampshire since Carlton Fisk."
Really.
They said.
Hmm.
The only difference between me and that Clemens on TV is luck, shit luck.
What happened?
Ruined my arm. Brought me along too fast. Why'd it have to be my fucking arm, I used to think. Then I realized it had to be somebody's fucking arm.
Safety on?
Yeah.
This way.
Sun's gettin high.
Deers have ears too.
Fresh tracks. Deer shit. Big one. Here's your buck, Mr. Twombley. I'll circle around.
You only got a little while if you want your hundred bucks.
You heard the news.
I hear Twombley got shot.
Yeah.
You see it?
Nope. Heard it. We wasn't far apart. I spotted this buck, then I heard the gun go off and Twombley was gone. I looked over the little cliff we was using for a stand and there the fucker was, deader'n shit. Called it right in.
This is gonna be one fucking mess to clean up. Twombley's soninlaw and daughter are up the weekend. Didn't you say you'd seen him, Wade?
Might as well take the rest of the day off. You look sort of fucked up. You've been paid for the day, anyhow, right?
Not exactly. I mean, he never paid me.
You'll get your money. Don't talk to any newspapers about this. Twombley's a big deal down in Massachusetts, you know. Tell them your lawyer says you shouldn't comment.
Lawyer? I don't need no lawyer, do I?
No, of course not. Just say it, that's all.
He's on to us!
Shit! What are we gonna do?
Maybe I can buy him off. I gotta talk to Mel.
You can't buy Wade off.
We bought you.
That was me.
I screwed up the divorce. I agreed with everything she said. I wanted her to like me. I just want to be a good father.
It would help if you were married, if there was someone at home while you work.
I plan to. Soon.
How soon?
This spring.
Good. It would help if there were some drug or alcohol abuse on the part of your exwife. Sexual problems upsetting to the child.
It looks pretty hopeless, don't it?
No, not exactly. I'll look at the divorce decree, see if we can get it redrawn. Interview your daughter. Jill, right?
Yes.
Fine. I'll need a $500 retainer. You can mail it.
Jesus. How much... how much will the whole thing cost?
Hard to say. If we go for custody, depositions, psychiatric evaluations, it could drag on. Ten or twelve thousand dollars. She could win on appeal. If we just want to get the visitation rights redrawn, assuming they're unduly restrictive, it wouldn't be more than twentyfive hundred.
Oh.
You might be better off legally as well as financially to just go for the 
Yeah. I know. The custody suit thing was just my getting back at her. I'm not as dumb as I look. Whatever you say. I love my daughter. I'll send you the five hundred.
What are you boys up to?
Same old shit.
The good news is we haven't got to your car yet. The bad news 
Just tell me when you'll have it fixed.
 the bad news is there's a problem with Gordon's truck what somebody drove through the ice last night. Figured you'd know something about that, Wade.
Yeah. I know about that.
LaRiviere says he ain't gonna pay for the fixin' of your car. A couple hundred for the clutch. I got some more bad news. Wanna hear it?
Tell me.
Chub says you're fired.
He can't fire me. LaRiviere already did that this morning.
He's a Selectman. The town. He said to tell you to turn your badge in and clean out your office. I'm supposed to pull the CB and police light out of your car. They're town property.
You got yourself a computer, Alma.
Been putting my files into it. You take sugar and milk?
No. Black.
Are you alright, Wade?
Yeah, sure. Why? I got this damned tooth, I got a few things bugging me, like everybody else. But I'm okay.
Well, you look... sad. Upset. I don't mean to pry. I'm sorry about your mother. It was a nice funeral.
Alma, I think there's some dirty business going on in this town.
Always has been.
This is maybe worse than you and I are used to. What I'm talking about, I'm talking about murder. Among other things.
Who?
Evan Twombley, the union boss who got shot. Somebody murdered him.
Who?
You know Jack Hewitt, the kid I work with?
...if Jack told the truth, he could be free by the time he's my age.
Sometimes things are simpler than you think. Let me ask you a question.
You don't believe me?
About Jack? No. Have you checked out the tax bill on your father's farm lately?
I know he's due for the last two years. I was thinking of paying it when the insurance comes in.
Has anybody offered to buy it?
As a mater of fact, yes. LaRiviere.
This is from three years ago. Some difference, huh?
What is the Northcountry Development Association?
I went down to Concord to check it out. The president is Mel Gordon. The vicepresident and treasurer is Gordon LaRiviere. Those boys are buying up the mountain, Wade. $364,000 this year. I believe that's out of LaRiviere's league.
Twombley involved?
No.
He musta found out. They had to get rid of him. And Jack'll get blamed.
All the figures show is that Gordon LaRiviere is going to be a very rich man using his position as Selectman. In a year or two, you won't recognize this town.
My yeoman will show you to your quarters.
Thank you.
See what?
The pattern. Each incident occurred almost precisely a thousand statute miles from the Pole. A line through the points of occurrence makes almost a complete circle...
Well, I'll be  !
I'll be another!
Just musing about our 'oneeyed adversary' and the legend of Homer. 'Cyclopes' were the Sons of Heaven, who forged the thunder bolts thrown by Zeus.
Our 'Cyclops' throws quite a thunderbolt, itself!
You plotted the course of Cyclops? Then that's <u>our</u> course! Wherever <u>he</u> goes, <u>we</u> go.....until we get him!
Or, perhaps, until he gets us?
We've asked ourselves that  over and over  a thousand times.
But <u>answers</u> are what we need  not more questions!
Due north. At five knots...no, six!
Toward the Pole!
Cyclops will have to linger at the Pole to recharge his power banks.
All right  go to it.
Remove your weapons, Commander. And come here  alone!
Come where?
That's a <u>face</u>???
Point of view is everything. To us, <u>your</u> form of life is ugly as we appear to you.
Tell me something: Why can <u>I</u> hear you, when the others couldn't?
My mission is to study various solar systems, and planets  select the most suitable for colonization 
 for horrors like yourself?
Swell!
Your friend was to remain where he was!
He did!
I am afraid not. Therefore 
Why not me? What am I  the closing act?
On the contrary. I want you  unharmed  perfect.
Why?
I have selected you, to return with me  along with several other specimens, for study. We will examine you and the others, discover desirable features to incorporate in our 'earthcolonizers.'
It is a living thing. When damaged  you would say 'wounded'  it immediately 'heals' itself.
That's why no water leaked inside when we rammed you?
Of course. But it is time to be gin the return voyage 
To navigate, won't you have to... see your way?
Obviously.
<u>That</u> might be a <u>little</u> <u>rough</u>!
Thought you were going to Washington, Skipper.
I did go. Just back. Reef, these are a couple of our passengers  Sir Ian Hunt, and Dr. Clifford Kent. My exec, Commander Richard Holloway.
I met Dr. Kent, once.
I'm  afraid I have some bad news for you, Reef  You'll have to share quarters, this trip.
Who with?
Dr. Neilsen. He'll be  
'Doctor' Neilsen? When did <u>that</u> happen?
Huh?
It'll be all right. We're old friends!
What do you think?
I think I should have joined the Air Force!
Determine extent of damage, immediately.
After torpedo room: Report!
You're sure it's Cyclops?
Take a look.
What's the running time?
Thirtyfour seconds!
Right <u>at</u> him?
That's what I said!
But  what can we accomplish?
We can <u>ram</u> him!
A hundred and eighty fathoms! We can't be sinking that fast....
It's the screws, Skipper. At our declination angle, running in reverse, they're pulling the Shark <u>and</u> Cyclops right to the bottom.
And we're at safe maximum depth already.... Stop engines!
Suppose there's an atmosphere, of some kind, inside Cyclops?
What?
If we could get inside the saucer  use our torches  maybe we could cut the Shark loose?
Straight to the Pole  at almost fifty knots!
Nothing we can do, now.
What's the corrected bearing to the Magnetic Pole?
Minus three.
It doesn't seem possible, but  could it be an electrical storm center  ?
Under <u>water</u>?
Highintensity arcs will burn, submerged. And millions of volts...discharged in random directions...
...above Murmansk, and Finland.
Suppose our theorizing is correct? Then this <u>could</u> be the next danger point!
What if the Tiger Shark were to anticipate a bit? Perhaps be lying there waiting  ?
We took for granted his source of energy was nuclear. But suppose it isn't at all  what if it's <u>magnetic</u>?
<u>We</u> harness energy on a small scale by cutting magnetic lines of force. Maybe Cyclops does it on a <u>super</u> scale....
The North Pole is the positive end of the biggest magnet of all  the Earth itself!
....in such a way as to prevent his returning to it and, as you put it.... ...'recharging his batteries'?
If we were lucky enough to catch him with his power depleted....
The radiation level  from the saucer  it's rising!
What direction does the system indicate?
As we near the Pole...
There's got to be an explanation!
There is. I believe our friend...Cyclops... is returning to life!
All ready?
As ready as we <u>can</u> be! I'll report to the Skipper.
We read you! Go ahead, Doctor! They're inside the saucer. It's filled with breathable air!
Wonderful!
That's wonderful, Carl! Reef thinks they can clear the Shark bow so we can pull ourself loose!
Now they feel it...down below.
Radiation level...constantly rising...
Excuse me, Captain  there may be one last, desperate chance  a oneinathousand shot...
Anything 
It's possible I could adapt one of the torpedo guidance systems to the ICBM  so it would 'home' on the saucer when he rises from the Pole.
What about time...?
Excuse me, Skipper
Yes, Griff?
All internal repairs completed, and Frogmen report exterior damage minor.
Skipper  could you take a look here...?
Something wrong?
The inertial navigation system. Must have been knocked out in the crash.
Why do you say that?
We're dead in the water. But it indicates we're moving!
What????
Get ready. We shove off as soon as Griff reports all the crew aboard.
Right, Skipper.
Is there any way out of it?
Seems to be all around...
What about down?
I...don't know!
Course and speed?
Speed...about twentytwo knots. Course...due north!
A mass of jellylike stuff came out of the thing, and caught our torpedo!
What???
What course, Skipper?
Right at our oneeyed friend!
You better take Powell and Carney with you 
The frogmen?
With their underwater experience, they'll be invaluable. Take sidearms, and flare pistols 
Sidearms? But the saucer's dead.
We hope!
Now, Dave Old Buddy, you know you're exaggerating  What do you think of this husband of yours? On most boats a certain loyalty exists between the Exec and his Navigation and Firing Officer. But unfortunately, in the case of Lieutenant Dave Milburn of the Tiger Shark and myself 
But Julie's a nice girl, and I've seen you work. She deserves a fighting chance!
Helen. I appeal to you 
Reef!
So they caught up with you, too?
At the worst possible moment. Tomorrow is Janie's birthday. Poor little kid has looked forward for two months to having her Daddy home. Now 
<u>That's</u> the worst possible moment?
What could be worse than disappoint ing a little girl?
Disappointing a <u>big</u> girl!
You've asked why I stay a bachelor? There goes the best reason I know!
Huh?
I might have a son like <u>that!</u>
I guess Skipper Neilsen re tired before you enrolled at the Academy, didn't he?
I guess.
One of the finest men, and officers, alive. A real hero  in the best sense of the word  in World War Two. He taught us Engineering and Design. Fought like a demon to develop atom subs.
So?
So all of a sudden his only son drops out of school, be gins making noises like a pacifist. A real egghead, dogooder, and crackpot! 'Ban the atom tests! Junk the nuclear subs! Spend the mili tary budgetfor peace!'
A lot of people think like that.
But <u>they're</u> not Skipper Neilsen's son! It broke his heart. Then when some newspapers called Carl 'the honest, sincere son of a warmongering father'  Captain Neilsen resigned from the Navy. Oh, he still keeps his hand in  playing around with projects like the 'Lungfish'  but it broke him, all the same.
Have you ever talked to Carl  tried to see his side?
'His' side? I've seen it, all right. A nice, bright yellow!
Cyclops?
Sounds like it! Distress call, from a small freighter, between Ellesmere Island and Greenland. One mayday, then...nothing.
We're stuck tight!
Skipper! Look at the depth gauge!
You've got to let us try, Skipper 
'Us?'
Reef and I can take the Explorer down, clamp it around the eye, and 
You all wait here. I'm going inside, take a look.
Not <u>alone</u>, you're not!
How about that! The bow drove half through her, but she sealed herself right up.
What's more important  there's our problem. The bow ram  the sawteeth are holding the Shark in the break. If we can cut the ram, the Shark can pull herself loose!
I think you're right.
Go back and tell Dr. Neilsen. Have him report to the Skipper.
Yeah?
Listen! Hear that?
I don't hear anything. Maybe you've been down here too long. Why don't you go back up and 
Strange you didn't hear it. OMIT 274F
Hey  you know somethin'? It's getting lighter in here!
You know  it <u>is</u>?
And if I didn't <u>know</u> better  I'd swear we were moving!
Let's get back to work, and maybe we <u>will</u> be, soon.
You hear that?
The sound again?
Where do you think the voice you heard was coming from?
Somewhere down there?
Wonder where Powell and Carney are?
We'll have to look for them later.
Well?
I'm with <u>you!</u>
Here  keep these. It wants me to come alone.
Oh it does???
Dave  !
What's goin' on in here, Lad? What  ?
I should have suspectcd, when I heard that 'Doctor.' I thought it was your father.
It was supposed to be. Dad had a heart attack, two days ago.
How is he  ?
It was moderate. He'll be all right. But it was out of the question, his coming along.
And they thought <u>you</u> could re place the Skipper?
You could train someone else.
Not in two days. Look: Do you think I <u>wanted</u> to come? If it didn't mean so much to Dad  proving his depthexplorer  it's the last thing I'd want!
What is it?
Your 'out.' This came for you.
My father! He's not  ?
Dead? Matter of fact, he's much better. He's left the hospital.
What did you mean: I'm 'out?'
Your father can be in Nome, Alaska, tomorrow. We have two choices: Ask them to send him out in a 'copter', and take you off, or the Shark can put back into Nome...
You 'trade school boys' are all alike, aren't you? Anybody who doesn't happen to think like a little goldbraided puppet is, ipso facto, a coward!
<u>You</u> said it. But I won't argue 
Wearing a uniform doesn't bestow an automatic monopoly on courage, <u>Commander</u>! It just so happens I'm <u>not</u> a coward  physical or mental  and before I'd risk my father's life...
We're <u>all</u> risking our lives!
That may be. But Dad stays where <u>he</u> is, and I'm staying here!
You're really a mixedup oddball, aren't you?
Perhaps. But the idea of willingly going to <u>school</u> to spend my <u>life</u> at a Paleozoic pastime that should have disappeared with the thunderlizards  I'm referring to War  <u>that</u> strikes me as the <u>worst</u> cowardice of all  being spiritually yellow!
You mean <u>nothing</u> is worth fighting for?
Peace  the dignity of man  the destiny of the human spirit! Show me a man who says you win <u>those</u> by fighting wars, and <u>I'll</u> show you an idiot!
You may not <u>win</u> them. But without men like your father, to 'degrade' himself by fighting to preserve them  or as much as we have of them  they'd have disappeared, <u>long</u> ago!
Unidentified Flying Objects.
Then...this is a 'flying saucer?'
That's enough, Holloway. I've told you before, wearing boards on your shoulders, and parading with a stiff spine doesn't auto matically endow you with back bone  !
 any more than being the son of Captain Neilsen does!
However our ideas disagree, as I've said before, I'm <u>not</u> a coward! And it happens you've got no choice: Either <u>I</u> take you down there, in the Lungfish, or you don't get there 
I'd sooner swim!
They're so remote  cold  beautiful, the stars. But now  I wonder 
Yes?
Which is the one  we have to worry about?
Maybe  just 'maybe'  when their ship doesn't return  they'll decide not to come here, after all.
But if they <u>do</u>?
I don't know.
I wouldn't worry. So long as we have boats like the Tiger Shark  and people like you, the Skipper, Dave, Kent, Sir Ian and my father 
And his 'egghead' son! We'll give 'em a <u>rough</u> <u>reception</u>, won't we?
Dan. And he's taking Alice with him  pretty good dive Yvonne. You've been practicing.
Two hours a day, six days a week.
Vomit?
Faint.
Why don't you shut up and let her talk! Two of us died in the last two days, does that strike you as particularly normal?!
Mark...
I'm not finished  I loved Greta. A lot. And if maybe, just maybe, someone or some thing killed her, I'd like to hear about it!
I can't listen to this.
It's okay.
Stick around, please?
You, too?
He invited me to his house last night.
These things are wild... What do you think?
Makes you look like a nun
All right kids, I tell you what we're gonna do. I've got swimming practice until sixthirty today...
Yeah...
That means they're gonna give me the key to the pool so I can lock up when I'm done.
Have another one, sounds like you need it.
Naah, I'm done. Got to be on shift in a couple hours. Aren't you going in?
Nah. It's getting too cold for me, and my wonderful mother will kill me if I screw up my hair. She's got some model agency guy coming to dinner tomorrow night.
Stop saying that, it's bullshit.
I want to talk about the baby.
Look. Dan's parents were pushing him. Pushing him hard. He was bitching about it at the party last night. He was under pressure. We all are.
Pushy parents can make you more than a bit crazy.
Bottom line, Alice. Anybody, supernatural or not, that wants to hurt you  he'll have to go through us first.
All of us. Right?
Yeah, when are you gonna come to your senses?
Next life. Oh, what's that?
My undying love. Have some.
Meet me later. Milkshakes. Cherry pie. Banana splits. And no mom!
Pimples, heartburn, cellulite... and no modeling career.
That club sucks, they card everybody. Let's just party at your place.
You know my mother  get real. What about Alice's?
He's right. Sometimes I feel like I'm living with Melicertes.
Who?
Oh, he was this ancient guy I read about who like, killed his kids 'cause they didn't want to run the kingdom the way he thought they should.
Oh man! I could've gone all night without looking at that.
I don't believe this... All that gore you paint in the comics and you're squeamish?
Give up, Mark, it's hopeless.
I think I'm starting to wear her down. Have some anyway.
Not to mention the heartbreak of psoriasis.
Greta, come on. One burger with me?
My dad's got this thing about drinking in the house.
Well we gotta do something!
I've got to write some of this down.
That's why it's my fault Dan's dead.
Mark, are you okay?
Yeah. I'm just aces.
I want to talk to both you guys about Greta. And...
I'm very fucking sorry, but Greta is dead today. Could we interest you in someone else?
I thought about that.
She must've fallen asleep at the table...
Then get out!
Mark!
Do you think I'm an idiot...for being in love with her?
Nobody thinks that.
Maybe it was her mother who killed her, with all that Polly Perfect shit.
It wasn't her mother. The only reason we're still here is that none of us has slept since the grad party.
Tell me some more about this Krueger guy.
Why don't I go make some coffee. There's a lot to tell.
Who's Jacob?
My baby!
What, you named it already?
Whoa, slow down. How're you gonna hide from a guy like that, leave the planet?
I don't know!
Where are you going?
I'm going to see what else I can find out about Mr. Fred Krueger
I couldn't do that, Mark. He's my last link with Dan...No, I want him.
Then we'll find another way.
They think I'm nuts.
That's their problem.
No, it's our problem, Mark. If I don't deal with this, they really might try to take Jacob. You said she committed suicide?
That's what the newspapers thought. She spent the rest of her life in the asylum. After Krueger's trial she flipped out and hung herself, so they thought.
Meaning?
They couldn't prove it. No body! Nuns bumping themselves off is bad for business.
But I've seen her grave.
Empty plot. Memorial stone. Vacant. They never did put her under. Cool, huh?
Poor woman...
No shit.
I don't understand.
She killed herself. Her soul's gonna be in torment.
Hey, what's wrong with you  let's see a smile.
Had kind of a long night.
Dan keeping you up again? Put a lock on that window, girl.
No, the Dan part was nice...
Good to see you again, Mr. Grey. I've got to go find Dan.
Yeah, before they revoke his diploma.
It was no accident. It was Krueger. He used to get in through my dreams, but not anymore. He's found some other way.
Alice, it's no dream. I'm sorry...Dan's dead.
Have you visited the little boy on my floor? Jacob, the one who looks kind of sad?
There aren't any little boys on your floor.
He must've wandered up from the children's ward. I just wondered what was wrong with him.
Did everyone call everyone?
They're waiting for us...but let's keep this dream stuff between you and me.
What's that got to do with it?
When Dan died you weren't even asleep. You said so. End of story.
It was just an accident. Like with Dan.
No accident. I tried to warn all of you about Krueger.
I don't understand what's happening. Krueger has to use my dreams, but he got to Dan and Greta while I was awake. How's he doing it?
Why don't you two stick to reality.
You had me scared on the phone. What's wrong with the baby?
I think Krueger's trying to do something to it.
Oh, Alice...no. Honey, I love you but you're going to have to get a hold of yourself...
Mark knows I'm not crazy. Ask him to show you his hands.
I really think you need to calm down now, okay?
I just can't figure out how he's getting in when I'm awake...
I am your friend, and I'm worried sick about you. But, you're like a locked safe. You've gotta start dealing with reality.
Krueger is reality.
And so is your baby. You've got more than just yourself to think of now!
What do you think I'm doing? Look. Whether you believe it or not, Krueger is back. He's after the baby and if I don't try to do something about it, who will??
All I know is that you are not doing yourself or the baby any good by acting like a crazy woman. Why don't you take off  leave Springwood and cool out somewhere for a while?
Goddamn it, Yvonne! You don't just run away from this guy! He finds you in your dreams.
Look...we're all tired. None of us had any sleep since Friday night...
That's the only reason you're alive...
Are you alright?
Yeah...So that's him. And you're not crazy.
You think that's the place she's buried?
If they actually bothered to bury her.
What?
Jacob. We've got to get to Amanda before it's too late.
But how are we gonna 
We've got to go to the asylum and find her body. Mark said her soul's trapped with it  that's why she can't come to me. It must be!
You do good work, Alice.
So did Dan.
He sure loves to stay awake.
That's okay. He's got the rest of his life to catch up on his sleep.
I was afraid you weren't coming.
I watched from behind the stands. Didn't want to embarrass you, ya know. "The drunk showed up", that kind of thing...
That's in the past. Unless you've stopped going to the meetings.
No. A deal's a deal.
Dad!
It's the model you've been saving up for. I wanted you to have it for your trip.
Where are we going?
To take a picture.
Thanks for everything, Dad.
You sure you don't want a ride to work?
It's just across the park.
I'm so sorry, honey...
Daddy, he's coming back...Krueger's coming back. Make them understand.
How was the meeting?
Sobering...
Very funny.
Alice...
Since when are you such a smart shopper?
Since my little girl became a mom...
You disappointed in me?
No, I'm not. I sort of hope it's a boy. Be nice to have a boy playing in the house again.
Alice!
I've got to go.
No! I won't have you running around in the middle of the night. You're coming home.
But Dad 
Now.
Hi, beautiful.
Jesus! Don't do that!
Sorry, babe.
The tickets.
They're coach seats, but the plane lands in Paris. It's gonna be a helluva summer, hon!
I know.
Okay, babe. What's the matter?
Nothing...it's just...I didn't see my father at the ceremony.
He'll show up. C'mon, what's really wrong?
About him?
No. Well, not exactly...it's that...I felt like I wasn't in control. For the first time since...all that. I'm scared.
You stopped it didn't you? It was probably just a regular bad dream.
Yeah...I guess.
You don't dream him up, he can't hurt you. Or me. Or us. Remember...
You're right.
There you go. Love you.
Me too.
Hey...wake up.
Huh?
Shouldn't you be in your room, Jacob?
It's lonely in there, in my room.
My name is...
I'm sorry your boyfriend got killed.
How did you know that?
I could tell you were sad. I just wanted to see if you were all right.
Hi, you don't look very well. Are you feeling all right?
Been having bad dreams.
Is that who you're waiting for?
No...
I don't think this is a nice place for you to be. Maybe we should go find your Mom.
She doesn't want me around
Oh...I'm sure that's not true. I'll bet she's very worried about you. I would be.
No you're not. You don't even care about being a mom. How come you don't think about me?
Who said I...wait, what?
Who says I don't like you?
My friend, with the funny hand.
Mommy...?
Come on downstairs. He won't hurt you. He needs us both.
Where is he?
He's inside you, where he hides.
What do you mean?
It's where he hides out. Inside. That's how he found me.
But how...?
He says it's easy. Especially with sad people. With closedoff people.
Excuse us, dear.
It's okay, Dan
Frankly, dear, we wondered what you intend to do with our baby?
What I what? Well, I've thought about it. I plan to keep him.
Look, I appreciate what you're offering, but no. He is my responsibility.
And ours. It's our grandchild.
In your present condition, Alice, we're worried about your ability 
What are you talking about? My "condition"?...
We know you've been through a lot but there's more than your feelings at stake here.
You're not taking my baby!
Feeling better now?
Yeah. I guess so... What happened?
You had a nasty bump.
I gotta get out of here.
You just stay put. You need rest.
You don't get it, he's after me...
Don't worry, honey
Something wrong with the stairs?
Avoidallcontactday.
What?
When dad's popping aspiring like popcorn, it's avoidallcontactday.
What is it?
Oh God! He killed them!
Now you know who and what Freddy really is.
I though Freddy was just an old town story.
It's no story. It happened. Freddy's real and he's back.
I'll tell you later.
It's no just a house. It's his home. He's waiting there for me...to dream.
It's okay, babe. We're with you.
I told you you can't help. This isn't a normal nightmare. I'm doomed.
Something the matter with the cuisine?
Well Mom, I'll tell ya, when two of your friends die the same day, you let me know what it does to your appetite.
You're just tired. Don't think I haven't noticed your not sleeping. That has to stop, honey.
What's wrong with me?
Your distraught. It'll help...
I'm sorry honey, but...
Sorry!! Sorry that you and your tennis pals torched this guy who's now after me. In case you haven't been keeping score, it's his fucking banquet, and I'm the LAST COURSE!!
Honey, we went over this in therapy.
Mother, you've just murdered me. Take that to your goddamn therapy...
TTThanks Alice...
Earth to Alice...
Hey, Rick!
Excuse me, ladies. I'll just be a moment.
I don't get it.
Let me talk to you.
So what's up? What'd I miss?
She told us the story of Freddy. It's a town legend. He was a child killer who was freed on a technicality.
So?
It pissed off a lot of parents. According to Kristen, they hunted him down; roasted him alive.
Nice neighborhood.
Now it gets weird. She says he comes back in dreams. If he kills you there, you're dead for real.
Hey man, we're all sorry...
She knew she was gonna die.
Been up with Alice.
How she doing? I ran into her last night.
She's blaming herself for Sheila. I know how it feels. I've been thinking about Kristen. Maybe I could've stopped it, if I'd listened.
About Freddy?
What else? You ever look over this town's history? Not a safe place to be a teenager. Anyway, if I'm next, watch your back.
Rick, please.
Alright, I think I see salvation...
I think Sheila's more interested in dissecting bodies than just admiring them.
Give her time. Beauty is skin deep.
Asthma attack...what 17year old has a fatal asthma attack? She was gonna be a doctor.
It was Freddy.
Enough of that crap.
I saw it. It was my dream. I brought Sheila in...
No...
You're his sister, right?
Rick stayed later after school with Kristen. She wasn't feeling very well.
Tell him I was looking for him, okay? I'm Dan.
I know. Uh...Alice.
I thought it was an accident. Smoking in bed.
It was no suicide. It was not an accident. It was Freddy, and he's coming back for seconds, thirds, and fourths.
I was there in the dream. He took her. It was awful. It was awful...
"In her dream"?
No, don't! I gave Sheila to him and now she's dead!
Kristen's story really got to her.
I've been working double shifts.
Extra money, huh?
Look, you know why, you just don't believe me.
No offense, or anything, but it's kind of hard to swallow.
The story is, the deaths you can't argue with.
How long have you been awake?
Three days.
Alright, let's assume this whole thing is true. Why does Freddy all of a sudden need you?
Kristen was the last child left of the people who killed Freddy. Maybe Freddy can't get to new kids without someone like me. Someone to bring them to him.
Not really.
Is there something we can do?
I don't think so. I guess this is my own war.
You don't really get it. He's not a nightstalker. It'll take more than bench presses to beat him.
Why can't we just talk to the authorities?
Yeah, right. Let's trade death by Freddy for life in a rubber room. Adults won't see it. They can't.
Then what else can we do?
Try what other kids did. Keep each other awake. We'll meet at Debbie's tonight. At least if we don't sleep he can't get us.
Who?
He's going after Debbie, I gotta stop him.
Hey, you're not alone. We have to stop him, I'm with you.
You just feel sorry for me.
Cut that shit out. Maybe before, but not now. I want to help you. I'm on your side.
As long as your driving doesn't kill us.
It's okay, we're just about there.
He's going after Debbie. I gotta stop him.
You know, I get the weirdest feeling we've been through this before.
Here we are.
Something's wrong here. It feels like...
What the hell was that?
Debbie. She's gone. I've...collected her, like the others.
You look great!
Save it for later. Come on!
You in a hurry?
I gotta get to the library before it closes. Killer physics test.
I know. I hardly have any time to study.
Maybe you shouldn't be working here so much. You don't want to get stuck waiting tables for the rest of your life.
I know.
Ohhhhbaby, I am dead on my feet.
We have matching luggage.
What?
You've been up all night?
That obvious, huh?
Then you saw him, too?
Saw who? I was up all night cramming for this physics test, and I was putting this little baby together. Look...
Here you are. Where were you this morning? Rick's looking all over for you.
Have you seen Joey and Kincaid! God, I can't find them. I can't find them anywhere.
I'm sure they're around.
Yeah, I'm not so sure.
I love to dream, I just hate ones about my dad.
You could do worse.
My mom taught me when I was little. Did you ever hear of the dream master?
Sounds like a game show host to me.
No really, it's a fable. The 'guardian of good' dreams. It was like my teddy bear when I was growing up.
Great, you wouldn't happen to know his phone number?
I daydream. you have to dream about some place fun. Remember you're in control.
How'd you learn so much about dreams?
When they're all you have, you kinda become an expert.
You what?
When I used to have nightmares. I brought my friends in to help me. Until they all started dying.
Kristen, what happened?
You'll hear all kinds of stories. They'll tell you it was murder, but it wasn't.
Don't you think it kind of defeats the purpose?
What?
The mirror. You can't see yourself in it.
I don't want to.
Yeah. She'd be half as strict as you.
But she wouldn't let Dad treat me like that.
Look, you gotta stand up for yourself. Learn to fight back.
Rick...I can't.
Never say can't. Just do what I do.
Alice, you think you can leave?
What's wrong?
Kincaid and Joey died last night.
What?
You alright?
Kristen...
I heard you screaming. Was it a bad one?
It was bad.
Doesn't the dream master work for you anymore?
I can't find him.
Hey, since when do you play Thomas Edison? This looks like Sheila's.
It is...was. It's a zapper, it might help me stay awake.
Yeah, or turn you into toast.
I can't go back to sleep again.
I haven't slept much either. Since Kristen...
We'll figure it out.
Figure it out?!?! I'll be insane before I figure it out. The only thing I'm sure of is that I can't go to sleep. Not while he's using me.
Then we'll stay up together.
Okay, I'll take it all.
Excellent. we accept MasterCard and American Express.
Cash.
Alright. May I have your phone number, area code first?
No, you may not.
Okay. Fine.
I'm required by state law to inform you that, while it's perfectly legal for you to purchase these items, it is illegal for you to use them for any sort of...
Yeah, I know the spiel. If you could bag it, I'll be on my way, thank you.
Certainly, sir.
Your soninlaw dealt with the dry cleaning franchise during the day, saw that woman every night. The specifics are in the report, and information about the woman. It's unpleasant, I know. I apologize...
None too discreet, is he?
No, sir, he is not.
He's an imbecile. I tried to warn my daughter, but what can you do?
The um... you'll find my invoice in the envelope. If that's all...
Yes, Mister Welles, thank you.
Certainly, Senator. If I can ever be of further assistance.
Yes... I remember Mary
You... you do? You're sure? Please, Sister, will you take another look, make sure...
Yes. I remember her.
Do you know what happened to her?
I'm trying to find out. She was a runaway. I'm looking into it for her parents.
What is this?
Those are her belongings.
Her belongings?
That's her suitcase. I had forgotten it, till you showed me her picture.
Whatever possessed you to keep this all this time?
She was the kindest, sweetest girl you'd ever want to meet. Oh, I adored her. I supposed I always hoped she'd be back. After a time, all I could do was pray she had moved on to better things. Can you get this suitcase to her parents, if you think it's appropriate?
I'll do what I can.
Yes... ?
Hello, Mrs. Mathews, my name's Thomas Jones, I'm a state licensed investigator...
I've been hired as an independent contractor by the U.S. Resource Center for Missing Persons as part of an internal audit. If you have any time over the next few days, I'd like to make an appointment to ask some questions about the disappearance of your daughter.
I don't understand, who are... ?
I'm sorry, let me explain, the R.C.M.P. is a support organization and archive, not unlike the Center for Missing and Exploited Children in Washington. I'm sure you've dealt with them before?
Yes, but...
These volunteer organizations are sort of interconnected, functioning hand in hand with law enforcement. The R.C.M.P. brought me in to review their investigations... ... factcheck their records, see if there's anything they missed, anything they should be doing different. I'm here for a few days, before I head back up to Virginia. These reports go to the Justice Department eventually. I spoke to your F.B.I. contact a few days ago, uh...
What was the name... ? I've got it here somewhere...
Neil... Neil Cole.
Right, Agent Cole told me he'd call and let you know to expect me. He didn't call?
No.
Well, I'm following up on your daughter, Mary, height; five four, weight; hundred ten pounds, brown eyes, blonde hair. Born April 24, 1976. Missing June 11th, 1992. A runaway, that's how she's listed. Is this information correct... ?
It's very important you don't let this raise your expectations. It's not going to effect any ongoing efforts. All I'm saying is, please know, I'm not here to create any false hope.
They hired you. You're like, a private detective?
That's exactly what I am.
I didn't think there were private detectives anymore, except on TV.
You probably expect me to be wearing a trench coat and a hat. Drinking whiskey, chasing women and getting beaten up by guys with broken noses. Want to know what it's really like? It's sitting in a car and staring at a hotel window for three days straight, pissing in a plastic bottle, pardon me, because some guy thinks his wife's cheating on him. Glamorous, huh? And the guy who hired you, he has a hairlip, dandruff and crooked teeth, and you could have told him the minute you laid eyes on him his wife's cheating, and you don't blame her.
So, she didn't leave a note? She never gave any indication where she might go, before she left?
No.
She just seemed... depressed... ?
She didn't seem herself. For months there never was any way to get her to talk about it. One night we went to bed... the next morning she was gone. She took some clothes.
What was she running from?
I don't know.
If there's anything you feel uncomfortable talking about, tell me, but I have to ask. Your husband... he committed suicide?
Yes.
September 4th, 1993. About a year after Mary disappeared.
We were divorced by then. Things fell apart... he was living with a friend...
Why do you think he did it?
It got to be too much for him.
You have to forgive me, but in these circumstances... with your daughter... Were there any indications of... any sort of abuse?
There wasn't anything like that. The police and the FBI people asked, but there wasn't anything happened like that, never. My husband... his heart broke when Mary left...
I didn't mean to...
You try going through what we did. Bob couldn't take it, that's all. Christ, there's times when it still seems like I can't either.
I had to ask. I apologize.
No one knows what it's like. You can't even imagine how much it hurts.
People remember me from the news. Can you drive me back now?
Of course.
I... I shouldn't take anymore of your time. Maybe we can finish tomorrow. I'll call tomorrow...
Okay.
Doesn't make much sense, does it? When everything's happy, when life's fine and you have every reason to believe there's a God, you don't bother. Then, something horrible happens... that's when you start praying all the time. That's when you start going to church.
We're all like that.
Are you religious?
No.
You should be.
I've got what I need for my report. There is... there is one thing that bothers me though.
What?
It's not really my place, but it's not easy for me to set aside the private detective part of me either. See, I know a little about missing persons. When kids run, they almost always leave a note. It's guilt. They want to say goodbye.
There wasn't one. The police looked.
Do you think the police did a good job?
I don't know. I think so.
It is possible... and I know this isn't something you want to hear. Your daughter may have tried to hide a note where she thought you would eventually find it, but where she knew your husband would never find it. She might have wanted to tell you something...
No. You don't have any reason to think that...
If the police focused their search in her room, her belongings, well that'd be only natural, but they may have been looking in the wrong place.
How... how can you say that to me...?
Will you let me look?
My husband never laid a hand on her. She would have told me... she would have told me...
You're probably right, and I probably won't find anything. I don't have a right to ask this, and you can kick me out of your house if you want, but this is my profession and there's a part of me that can't let it go. Police are just as human as you or I. They could have missed something. They probably didn't. Wouldn't you rather know?
You were right. I didn't find anything. I'm going to run and get something to eat. Are you hungry?
Yes.
I think about it everyday. But, every time the phone rings... every single time, I still think it's her.
It's been six years.
What am I supposed to do? Forget her? Time heals all wounds, right? She's all I think about, and I've learned to live with that. But, you want the truth... the real truth? If I had a choice... if I had to choose, between her being out there, living a good life and being happy, and me not knowing; never finding out what happened to her... ... or her being dead and me knowing... I'd choose to know.
Hello... ?
Mrs. Mathews? It's Thomas. Do you remember, I was there a few weeks ago... asking about your daughter...
I remember. You just left...
I have to tell you something. It won't be easy for you to hear. It's about your daughter... Mary Anne... When I... when I was there with you, her diary, in your attic, in silverware. If you read it, you'll know what I'm telling you is true...
What are you talking about... ?
She went to California, to Los Angeles... she wanted to start over. She wanted to be an actress...
What... ?
Mrs. Mathews, your daughter is dead. She's dead.
Who is this... ?
Someone... some men, they took your daughter and they drugged her, and they took her to a motel room... they did terrible things to her...
Who are you?
They brought her into the room... one man, he put a knife to her throat and he raped her...
No...
He raped her and...and...and he murdered her...he cut her up with knifes...
No... no... no...
They killed her, and they took her out in the forest somewhere and they buried her...
Why... why are you doing this to me... ?
They murdered her, Mrs. Mathews, I'm sorry. It happened a month after she ran away. She's been dead all this time...
Mister Welles. You're very prompt.
I try to be.
Uh huh, pleasure.
Apparently Mr. Longdale has something he feels he simply must say before you and I speak.
Have a pleasant evening. Will you have tea, Mister Welles?
Thank you.
He's odd.
He's a lawyer. Please, sit, here...
I've spoken to friends of mine and my husband's, in Harrisburg, in Lancaster and Hershey. Asking about you. I must say you have friends in influential places.
I've been privileged to provide services for people I admire.
You are highly recommended. Praised for your discretion... your strict adherence to confidentiality.
As you know, my husband passed away recently. Two weeks ago now.
My condolences.
His passing has left me with... something of a dilemma. A terrible, terrible dilemma.
I'll do whatever I can to help.
Pittsburgh?
Mostly. That's where he started his empire building. He was a good man. Notorious as an eccentric, but that was something he cultivated. He wanted to be legendary.
He succeeded.
We were married fortyfive years. Hard even for me to imagine. We had our troubles. There were plenty of places for him to be other than here, but he was always loyal to me, and I to him. I loved him deeply.
Do you carry a gun, Mr. Welles?
I wear a gun when I can tell a client expects me to. Other than that, there's never any reason.
Just curious.
My husband was the only one with the combination to this safe. I knew about it, but as far as I was concerned it was none of my business. Not till now, that is.
You hired someone to open it. I'll bet the lawyer loved that.
There was nothing he could do. My husband left everything to me. I prevented anyone from seeing the contents. I felt these were my husband's private things. I didn't... I didn't realize...
Do you want to tell me what you found?
Cash, stock certificates, and this...
It's a film... of a girl being murdered.
I'm afraid I don't...
This is a movie showing a girl being murdered. She's sitting on a bed, and a man rapes her... and he begins to cut her with a knife... I only watched what I could.
I didn't know what to think. I can't tell you how horrible it's been, to know this belonged to my husband. To know that he watched this... this atrocity. But, I can't go to the police...
Mrs. Christian... please, will you sit down a moment? I want you to listen carefully. What you're talking about is a "snuff film." But, from what I know, snuff films are a kind of... urban myth. Like, red light district folklore. There's no such thing, I can assure you.
Please, believe me. This is probably a stag film. Simulated rape. Hard to stomach, and it might seem real, but there are ways of making it look realistic... fake blood and special effects...
No.
If you were to study it you'd see the camera cutting away... you'd see the tricks they can play...
I'm telling you it's not that.
I'm sure it is. It's probably something your husband was given as a bad joke. More than likely he never even watched it.
Will you watch it and see for yourself?
Of course. But, I'm certain it's nothing to worry about.
You... you need to go to the police.
I told you I can't, not yet.
You don't have any other choice.
No. For me to live with the ruin of my husband's name, I need know that whoever did this will be punished. If you can find them, I will take their names to the police. I'll say my husband confessed on his death bed. I'll say I didn't have courage to come forward at first...
It won't work like that.
Any evidence you collect can be given to the police later, anonymously. I've thought about it and there's no other way. If you can't find them... if the only thing that comes from this film is that this is all my husband will be remembered for, well I can't let that happen. I'm telling you I won't. If there's no chance that poor girl's memory can be served, then I'll just have to spend my last days trying to forget her.
I deal in divorce cases. Corporate investigations...
You've found missing persons before.
Nothing remotely like this.
I know what I'm asking. Your compensation will be appropriate to the risk. You'll need cash to buy information, and I'll provide it. I feel responsible, Mr. Welles. You saw what he did to her.
Okay...
My husband never dealt with money personally, certainly not cash.
I'm not positive this means anything.
The checks were for odd amounts...
One was for two hundred thousand, one dollar and thirteen cents. Another was for three hundred thousand, six hundred fifty four dollars and seventy six cents...
Okay, I follow you so far...
Totalled together, these five checks from five different accounts, they equal one million dollars.
You're joking.
To the penny. Exactly one million dollars in cash.
Hello... ?
I'm here.
Do you think the film could have cost that much?
For a human life... murder on film, no statute of limitations. Who knows? It sure could have. I'd like you to overnight me a copy of those checks, then put them in a safe deposit box.
Okay.
Send it to me through the post office like we arranged. No return address. You dug this up all by yourself?
You told me to look, so I looked.
You're one hell of a detective, Mrs. Christian.
Hello?
Mrs. Christian, Tom Welles here.
How are you? Having any luck?
I don't know if luck's the word. Are you feeling alright?
I've been ordered into bed. The doctor says I've gotten the flu, or some other wretched ailment.
I hope it's nothing serious.
Nothing more than a bother. Have you any news for me?
I've made progress. I'm in Manhattan. Once a few more pieces fall into place, I'll drive to you and give you an update.
Fine...
I've got about five thousand left in cash, but I'll need another thirty, if you approve.
How will I get it to you?
If you have a pencil and paper, I'll tell you how to send it.
Big date tonight?
Yeah... guess so.
Can I interest you in a battery operatedvagina?
Pardon me?
My boss tells me I have to do more suggestive selling.
Well, it's tempting, but no thanks.
It's your call, but you're gonna be sorry when you're in one of those everyday situations that call for a batteryoperated vagina and you don't have one.
I'll risk it.
Once you pick it up you can't put it down.
Catchy title. What are you really reading? Hard to believe that book's got any parts worth highlighting.
Truman Capote.
I tear off the cover and paste this one on... You know how it is.
Wouldn't want to embarrass yourself in front of your fellow perverts.
Might get drummed out of the pornographer's union, and then where would I be?
Remember me?
Came back for that batteryoperated vagina, right? Told you you would.
I need some information. Thought you might be able to help.
Thomas Welles. Nice picture.
I don't know what you're looking for, mister, but so we're clear from the start, I'm straight.
Good for you.
How long you been working there?
Three, four years.
What's your name, if you don't mind me asking?
Max.
Well, here's the deal, Max. This thing I'm on right now has something to do with underground pornography. Stuff that's sold under the counter, illegally...
There's not much illegal.
Well, whatever there is, whoever's dealing, however it's done, I want to know. I want a good look, so if you've got that kind of connection, great. If not, speak now.
You're not a cop, are you? If I ask and you are, you have to tell me.
I'm not a cop.
You're a private eye. Like Shaft.
Not quite.
From Pennsylvania. P.I. from PA. What are you doing out here?
Well, there's the thing; you're not gonna know anything about what I'm doing, but you can make some money.
How much?
How much do you make now?
Four hundred a week, off the books.
Okay, let's pretend I live in the same fantasy world where you make four hundred a week in that dump. I'll give you six hundred for a few days.
Sounds good, pops.
Here's my number if you need it... When can you start?
Tomorrow night, I get off at eight.
See you then. Oh, and, don't call me "pops."
... Hello... ?
Wake up, pops. Your education begins tonight.
You've got Penthouse, Playboy, Hustler, etc. Nobody even considers them pornography anymore. Then, there's mainstream hardcore. Triple X. The difference is penetration. That's hardcore. That whole industry's up in the valley. Writers, directors, porn stars. They're celebrities, or they think they are. They pump out 150 videos a week. A week. They've even got a porno Academy Awards. America loves pornography. Anybody tells you they never use pornography, they're lying. Somebody's buying those videos. Somebody's out there spending 900 million dollars a year on phone sex. Know what else? It's only gonna get worse. More and more you'll see perverse hardcore coming into the mainstream, because that's evolution. Desensitization. Oh my God, Elvis Presley's wiggling his hips, how offensive! Nowadays, Mtv's showing girls dancing around in thong bikinis with their asses hanging out. Know what I mean? For the pornaddict, big tits aren't big enough after a while. They have to be the biggest tits ever. Some porn chicks are putting in breast implants bigger than your head, literally. Soon, Playboy is gonna be Penthouse, Penthouse'll be Hustler, Hustler'll be hardcore, and hardcore films'll be medical films. People'll be jerking off to women laying around with open wounds. There's nowhere else for it to go.
Interesting theory.
What you saw tonight, we're not talking about a video some dentist takes home over the weekend. We're talking about stuff where people get hurt. Specialty product.
Child pornography.
There's two kinds of specialty product; legal and illegal. Foot fetish, shit films, watersports, bondage, spanking, fisting, she males, hemaphrodites... it's beyond hardcore, but legal. This is the kind of hardcore where one guy's going to look at it and throw up, another guy looks at it and falls in love. Now, with some of the S+M and bondage films, they straddle the line. How are you supposed to tell if the person tied up with the ball gag in their mouth is a consenting or not? Step over that line, you're into kiddie porn. Rape films, but there aren't many. I've never seen one.
Snuff films.
I heard you asking. That guy wasn't yanking you around. There's no such thing.
What other ways are there to get illegal films? Who do you see?
First of all, basement sales like tonight aren't gonna last much longer. It's too risky, one, and two, everything's going on the internet. Anyone with a computer and enough patience can find anything he wants. It's heaven for those degenerate chickenhawks. They're swapping pictures back and forth as fast as their modems can zap 'em. But, there's still some weird shit under the counter where I work sometimes. No one knows where it comes from. That's local underground, where information spreads by word of mouth. Those are zombies, hardcore junkies. Their hands are permanently pruned. They go out in the sun they don't burn, they blister. Other than that, all I know about is the mail. Classified ads in the paper with hidden codes. Secret couriers. Credit card orders to dummy corporations. Interstate wire transfers. Revolving P.O. boxes. But, if you're asking me who do you go to to get illegal shit... who knows? That's the whole point  the seller stays as far away from the buyer as possible, and vice versa, and cops can't trace the deal. There's ways to do it so nobody knows who anybody is.
How old are you?
Twentyfive.
Where are your parents?
I don't know, where are yours?
I don't mean any offense... but what are you doing mixed up in all this?
I'm not mixed up in anything, hayseed. What are you talking about?
You just strike me as smart enough to be doing something else.
Yeah, I'm a real genius. What choices have I got? Fuck, just because I know about stuff like tonight doesn't mean I deal it. I work a job. It beats pumping gas, beats making hamburgers.
You're telling me it doesn't get to you?
You can't sit there all day watching the parade of losers that comes into that place without going numb. So what? Am I gonna go off and be a race car driver? Go to Harvard? Run for President? What about you, pops?
What about me?
I see a ring on your finger. You have any kids?
A daughter.
So, you have a wife and kid waiting for you in Pennsylvania... what are you doing mixed up in all this?
Good question.
Dino Velvet... yeah, he's like the John Luc Godard of S+M flicks, supposed to be a real weirdo.
A weirdo making S+M films? Who'd have thought it?
His stuff comes out of New York. Bondage and fetish videos, Gothic Hardcore. Definitely not for the squeamish.
Specialty product.
You're learning.
Where does he sell it?
Out of the back of bondage magazines mostly, but you can find it on the street if you look. He'll also do commissions, for enough money...
Nothing illegal, it's always borderline. Like if some freak wants to see a transvestite in a full rubber immersion suit getting an enema from a...
Alright, I get the picture.
He cuts all kinds of other stuff into his movies; photographs, newsreel footage, subliminal images. Thinks he's making art.
Well, I'm in New York now. What do you say to flying out and giving me a hand?
I'm a working stiff, pops.
Take a vacation. I'll pay you four hundred a day, plus expenses.
You want me to come out there and play private eye?
Consider it. Meanwhile, dig up whatever Dino Velvet films you can. Get receipts. I'll call back.
See ya.
You didn't say it was gonna be this luxurious.
It's their Presidential Suite.
Great.
Oh, come on, man, what are we doing in this flea bag?
It's cheap, and people know to mind their own business. What have you got for me?
Wha... ?
Who is this, in the mask? Who is he?
Who is he?
I told you, he's one of Dino Velvet's stock players...
Who is he, his name?
Nobody knows his name. That's his thing. He always wears a mask. You never see his face. He calls himself "Machine," that's what they call him. Machine.
You don't need to be here.
What kind of Junior P.I. would I be if I didn't go with you?
I know if I had to pick, it'd be "Choke," or "Devil."
"Devil" frightened me as much as it excited me, but I'd be hard pressed to choose a favorite.
What's next?
I'm trying to figure that out myself. I have to see Machine without his mask.
Still don't want to tell me what you're doing?
Nope.
What's this?
It's money. People use it to purchase goods and services.
Look... that's awful generous and everything...
It's not my money. The woman I got it from is never going to give it a second thought. Let's not make a big deal out of this, okay? Go be a race car driver. Go run for President. Whatever.
Yes, I do have something to say. I insisted on being here as soon as I heard Mrs. Christian contacted you.
I'm listening.
As Mr. Christian's attorney and one of the executors of his estate, it concerns me that a meeting of this sort should take place without my being asked to attend.
Of what sort?
You are a private investigator?
That's right.
Well, whatever reasons Mrs. Christian has for engaging the services of a private investigator, I should certainly be a party to. But, since she feels differently, I can only go on the record as having expressed my adamant disapproval.
You were the middleman, am I right? Old man Christian wasn't about to go shopping for a snuff film himself.
Wouldn't exactly have been possible for a man of his stature.
So, he sent you, gave you the money, his errandboy. And if you refused, it wasn't like you could tell anyone your pervert boss just asked you to get him a snuff film. That's the beauty of lawyer/client privilege.
That's trust. Mr. Christian trusted me implicitly.
Must have paid you a lot, for you to risk everything. Would've had to have cut yourself a real nice piece of money.
I was well compensated.
That's why you got scared when Mrs. Christian hired me. You knew about the film, figured it had to be in that safe. How'd you find me?
Never mind how I found you.
Followed me... must have freaked out when you saw me closing in on your buddies...
They're no friends of mine.
Except, you're willing commit murder with them.
None of this would be happening if you would have left it alone. If you weren't digging up a girl who died six years ago. A girl no one even remembers.
Mary Anne Mathews, that was her name. Her mom remembers her.
You found these smut dealers and asked to buy a snuff film, right? Wanted them to find you one. Well, they didn't find you one, Longdale, they went out and made you one...
Shut up.
Mary Anne Mathews was alive till you paid money to have her murdered.
Shut your mouth and drive!
Did it get him off, huh, watching them cut her up? Tell me, because I really want to understand. Did he jerk off to it? You watch it with him, sit there giving him a handjob while you both watched... ?
You're making me very angry.
Just tell me. Tell me some more of the secrets you and Christian shared. What kind of degenerate pervert was he really? What the fuck did he want with a snuff film?
You're asking me why?
I'm asking.
A man like Mr. Christian, a great man... all his money, all his power... a man who attained everything there was to attain...
Why did he buy a film of some poor, lost girl getting butchered?
Isn't it incredibly obvious?
Enlighten me.
Because he could. He did it because he could. What other reason were you looking for?
You almost went over your limit.
Fuck you.
Give me the film.
You'll get it when we get there.
Give me the film.
Go ahead, shoot me. Then try driving to Brooklyn with my brains all over the windshield.
He's lying.
Look at him. You think he played it square? How much did he give you, how much did he keep for himself?
You know how my tapes sell. People eat this stuff up.
I had three jerkoffs trying to return your tapes last month. Do you know how bad a skin flick has to be for some jackass to come back into my place with a fucking receipt, and try to fucking return it?
Maybe there's something wrong with the scumbag customers coming into your place, ever think of that?
The only thing wrong is the cheap, softcore crap you're peddling, Eddie. Where do you get this stuff?
Look, you cocksucker...
Get together some upscale product where the girls still have teeth in their head. Till then, fuck you.
Fuck you!
Celebrity Films.
Eddie.
Yeah, who's this?
I know what you did.
What?
I know what you did.
Who is this.
You murdered that girl, Eddie. Six years ago...
What the fuck are you.. ?
You killed that girl and you put it on film. You and your pals, you're fucked. You fucked up real good.
What's he talking about?
One million dollars, Dino. How much did he tell you he had...
I'm gonna kill you.
Don't bore me with that bullshit.
How'd you find me here?
Don't ask questions.
Fuck you!
Starting to recognize a pattern?
What do you want?
Who is Machine?
I don't know...
I want his name.
I told you, I don't know.
I will never get tired of hurting you, Eddie, so you might want to change your attitude.
What the fuck am I gonna protect that freak for? He was Dino's boy, not mine. He shows up with his mask on, leaves with his mask on. Nobody knows.
Okay, we'll come back to that. So, six years ago a guy contacts you, through the classifieds, over the phone, however he does it. It's Longdale, looking for a snuff film. And you, entrepreneur that you are, tell him you can hook him up.
Yeah, the fucking lawyer.
Told him you could get him a snuff film.
Yeah.
How much did he pay you?
Thirty thousand each, that fucking cocksucker.
That's all? Thirty each. That's all it took for you to murder her?
It was a lot of fucking money.
So... you brought Dino in, and he brought Machine. And, one day, a girl walked into your office because you had an ad in the paper for models. And she never walked out.
Something like that.
What did you do, knock her out, shoot her up... ?
What the fuck do you want from me?
I want to know. I want to know exactly what you did to her!
Fuck you then, you want to know? I talked her up, told her how beautiful she was, told her she was gonna be a star. I told her I was gonna get her a screen test, and while I'm doing that, I got her a soda and dropped a mickey. When it was dark enough, I rang Dino and told him it was go time, I put her in the trunk of my car and we went and we fucking did it. That's what happened. She's dead. She's been dead a long fucking time. Nobody fucking cares!
Show me where you did it, on the map, exactly where you did it.
Why?
Because we're going there.
I don't know. I felt like it. I never saw anyone get done before.
You enjoy it?
Made me sick, but what did I care? What did I care if some hump wants to beat off to that. It was just something I was doing for money.
Tell me what happened.
What do you want to know? You saw it, you saw the loop...
Nobody saw you bring her in?
There wasn't nobody around. This place was a shithole. I backed up the car to the door and we carried her in, like groceries. Dino made her eat a bunch of pills, we laid out the plastic, put film in the camera and Machine went to work.
What did you do with her body?
Took it out the bathroom window. Buried it in the woods.
Show me.
Keep moving.
Where do you think you're taking this, huh? Gonna be a big hero, avenge that little girl's death? Gonna make everything right with the world? How you gonna do that... ?
You can't go to the cops. All you can do is cut me loose and walk away, because you got nothing...
Stop talking.
You got absolute zero.
Show me where you buried her.
I don't know... ... out there somewhere.
Where? Show me where.
I fucking don't know. What do you think... we weren't burying treasure. We didn't pace it out so we could come back and get it. We dug a hole and we put her in it. Your guess is as good as mine.
Do it.
Don't think I won't.
Do it! Put me out of my misery so I don't have to listen to you whining anymore. You think it's so easy?
Easy enough for you.
I never killed anyone.
That's right, you just stood there and watched, because you "felt like it." Almost makes you worse.
What do you want? You want me to fall to my knees and start crying like a baby... ?
What can I do for you, Mr. Welles?
Call me Tom.
Alright, Tom.
What I'd like, very simply, is access to your archive. And, now I understand this isn't something you normally do for private citizens...
There are reasons for the way we do things here.
Absolutely. Of course I'll abide by whatever decision you make, but I'd appreciate if you'll hear me out...
Few days ago, I was contacted by a couple living in Philadelphia, a doctor and his wife. What happened was they picked up a young girl hitchhiking off 81, which heads into Philadelphia, started up a conversation with this girl, she looked homeless, seemed about eighteen maybe. They convinced her to let them buy her a meal in the city. Nice kid, mature, didn't have much to say, but they got a sense she's a runaway, so all through dinner the doctor's working on her, trying to convince her that at the very least she should pick up a telephone. Not surprisingly, she ate her food, excused herself... That's the last they saw her. The reason they came to me for help, the reason I'm coming to you, is we had a friend of mine in the department work up a sketch... They want to see if I can I.D. this girl, somehow pass along a message to let the parents know the kid's alive, doing alright.
Why not go to the N.C.I.C. or N.C.M.E.C.?
I figured you share information.
We do.
For whatever reasons I thought you might be more receptive.
Why don't they come to me?
This doctor and wife, they're nice people, but they don't want to get too involved. They're not trying to have the parents come looking for the girl either. You and I both know sometimes, not often, but sometimes there's real reasons why a kid'll run. Molestation, whatever. Besides that, the girl's probably eighteen, so she's legal.
I'm not so sure about this.
They're putting themselves in place of this kid's parents and thinking they'd want to hear their girl's okay, even if that's all they hear.
I can give you my card, if your clients want to call me...
They were pretty clear they didn't want this coming back on them.
Well, that's all I can do. Sorry.
Files are mostly by state and year of disappearance. We try to keep the children and adults separate. No eating or smoking in here, but there's a coffee machine in the hall.
Any good?
It's horrible, but it'll be your best friend after a few days. I hope you realize what kind of long shot you're chasing after.
You're gonna be seeing a lot of me. You're sure you don't mind?
It's good what you're doing.
Is that him?
Put the gun down, take the handcuffs. Handcuff yourself to the bed.
Don't let Longdale's questionable choice of weapon give you any ideas. If his fey little gun puts enough little holes in you, you'll be just as dead... and so will Max.
Move it, dirtbag... !
You're a dead man.
Leave him alone.
Fuck off.
... sorry...
First things first. You might want to watch this, Mr. Welles...
You got the guts, tough guy? Gonna kill us all, is that it?
You betrayed us.
It's an honor to meet you. Thank you for seeing us.
What can I do for you today?
I'd like to commission a work. I'm a great admirer of yours.
Flattering. And, who's your colorful little chum?
A fellow investor.
Hmm.
You said something about money.
Yes. What we're looking for is rather specific.
That's five thousand dollars.
Is it?
Five thousand now, five thousand on delivery. Two women, one white and one black, as long as they have large breasts. Hard bondage, or course. Other than that, trusting your artistic interpretation, I have only two stipulations.
And they are?
I want to watch you work.
I'll consider it.
And the other performer... it has to be that monster you use... the man in the mask.
Machine.
If it's not him, there's no deal.
He might be interested... but it would mean another five thousand.
We can do that.
Well, well, I'll have to put my thinkingcap on about all this. You'll leave the money as a deposit? Very good.
You have a beautiful face... the way the light hits it. I'd like to take your picture. You don't mind?
I'd rather you didn't.
What's the problem?
I'm camera shy.
You trust me to keep your money, but not to take your picture?
Those are two different kinds of trust. Thank you for your time. I hope we can do business.
I'll do this for you. Fifteen thousand dollars.
Machine's in?
He's in. It will be his pleasure.
Where's that?
Brooklyn. Don't be late.
You brought the money?
Right here.
Excellent.
Where are the women?
They should be here any minute.
What are these for?
Hmm? Oh, the knifes? They're just props. Nice, aren't they?
Sure.
Mister Welles... would you be so kind as to remove any firearms from your person?
What are you... ?
Take out your gun!
Empty the gun onto the table, very carefully.
Look, I don't know what this...
Shut up, cunt! Do exactly as I say, or I'll put this arrow through your throat.
You remember Mr. Longdale, don't you?
I remember him.
Friend of yours?
Look, he's got nothing to do with this... let him go...
Can you guess what I'm going to say next?
He doesn't know anything... he's got nothing to do with this...
Bring the film, or we kill him.
I'll get it. It's in a safe deposit box, in the city...
How cooperative. Longdale will keep you company.
What do you want?
I just got a call... two seconds ago, some motherfucker called... says he knows about the loop.
What are you talking about?
The loop! The girl we did, what the fuck do you think I'm talking about?! This guy calls and says he knows about the fucking loop...
Bullshit.
I'm telling you...
Blow me, you paranoid fuck, that's impossible. Why are you bothering me with this... ?
Because somebody just fucking called me and fucking laid it out!
There's nothing there, you brain dead cunt. Think about it. There's absolutely no way in this world to connect us to anything. I want you to hang the phone up, and if you call me about this again I'm going to send a friend of mine out there and have him crack you open with a fucking rib spreader.
Dino...
Nobody knows anything.
What the fuck... !
I promised him to Machine.
What are these?
Mixed hard bondage. Rape films. Sick shit. Buy five, get one free.
Anything harder?
There's nothing harder.
Snuff?
What you see is what I got, mister.
You know where I can get it? I have a lot of money to spend.
There ain't no such thing as snuff. Why don't you fuck off?
Welcome home.
Do you know how much I missed you?
What's this... have you been smoking... ?
Smoking? I'm not smoking.
Your clothing reeks of it.
You know, Amy, I've been sitting around in bars and everywhere following this guy... I mean, is this what I get first thing? Before you even "hello," you accuse me... ?
I'm not accusing you...
Well, I'm not smoking, okay?
Okay, I believe you.
We've been all through that. I've been on my best behavior.
How's the detective business?
Business was fine. I'll tell you what, you couldn't pay me enough to live down there.
You better not be smoking, that's all I can say.
Honey, I'm not, please...
I love you.
I love you.
You think you'll have time for the water heater this weekend?
Sure. I'll call the guy.
You're not using the same guy who tried to fix it?
I'm not using him again for anything. He was worthless. You have bridge here Saturday?
Betty's out of town so we're playing next week.
This is the mortgage. This is Cindy's college money.
I understand.
Sometimes you can't know what I'm doing. It's better that way.
I know.
It's a missing persons case... a long shot. I'll give it two months, two months at most, then I'll be back. We'll take a vacation.
Why the gun?
I'm not gonna need it. I won't even wear it. It's a precaution. Don't worry about me.
Hello?
Amy, it's me. Listen very carefully..
Tom? Where have you been... ?
Amy, just listen. Take Cindy and get out of the house. Do it now. Go to a hotel and stay there...
What's wrong? Are you alright?
I'm okay. Please, honey, I can't explain. Don't use the phone, just pack a bag and get out. I'm on my way. I'll be back at the house in three hours. Call me from the hotel when you get there
... What's going on?
Just do it, Amy, please, go.
What happened to you?
I'm okay, honey, I'm okay. Are you alright?
What's going on, Tom? What happened?
I can't tell you, Amy. You know I can't. You have to trust me...
Tom...
It has to be this way for now. It won't be long.
Why haven't you called? Why don't you answer your phone?
I don't know. I'm sorry...
You're sorry? What was I supposed to think?
You owe me an explanation. You can't treat me like this.
I wanted to call. I couldn't.
You couldn't?
You don't understand...
No, I don't, because you're not telling me anything!
I was in hell. If I called you... if I heard your voice... it would have been so easy for me to quit. I couldn't do that.
You should have.
Amy, I'm not going to let anything happen to us.
Look where we are. Look at yourself. You son of a bitch, you don't have any idea what you're putting me through...
I don't know what to say
You're killing me...
Don't...
What was I supposed to think happened to you?!
Amy...
Who are you calling?
Mrs. Christian.
What?
She's all I've got. She's the only witness.
Tom... she's dead.
She died in her sleep three days ago. It was in the paper...
I just talked to her.
Am I disturbing you?
No... not at all. Where are you?
...Not far, now.
Really? Maybe I can get you on my screen and see you at last!
Do you have the picture now Mr. Zorg?
Got it.
How's our deal coming along?
Fine, just fine! I'll have the 4 pieces you asked for any time now. But it wasn't easy. My costs have tripled.
The Stones will be here. I'll see to it personally!
...I can't wait to be among you.
How's that? Can you hear me better now?
Yes, Mr. Zorg, I hear you perfectly! So, how was the concert?
Who gives a shit! I didn't come here to listen to music! Listen up instead of running off at the mouth! The batteries on my phone are almost gone.
Yes, Sir!
Dispatch me another ZFX200 immediately. Someone stole mine.
Right away, Sir. I'll send you a new one to the hotel.
I'm not at the hotel!
Lord forgive me.. they already know too, much..
"..in which all the history of the Universe resides ..all the strength..all the hope..Protect us from Evil.."
Amen..
Father.. it in the most extraordinary thing.. the greatest find in history..can you imagine the implications.
Only too well... here you must be parched..
A weapon against evil. Amazing! I am going to be famous.
Then let us toast to your fame! Here Billy..
Drink!
To fame.. salud..
Staedert, do you read me?
I can hear you, Mr. President, but I can't see you .
Is that better?
Perfect, Mr. President.
I have to address the Supreme Council in 10 minutes. Just the facts, General.
There are no results from the chemical and molecular analysis as of yet, all the calibers are overshot..we're hoping a thermo nucleatic imaging..
What you are saying is you don't know what this..thing..is.
Not yet Sir..The only thing we know is it just keeps getting bigger!
Options.
Wait or act.
Recommendations.
My philosophy Mr. President is shoot first ask questions later. I don't like uninvited guests.
Gentlemen?
Staedert? What's going on? Did you destroy it?
I'm about to, Mr. President.
I managed to contact the Mondoshawan. They deplore the incident, but accept our apologies.
And the Stones? Did you find them in the wreckage?
TheStones weren't aboard the ship.
...What do you mean?
I want your best man on this!
Don't worry, Sir. I have the perfect one.
They just landed in the desert.
How much time is left?
This is all that survived?
Actually only one cell survived..
Have you identified it?
It's not that easy..we've never encountered anything like it before..you see normal human beings have 40 DNA memo groums..which is more than enough for any species to perpetuate itself..This one has 200,000.
Talk English Doc.
This cell is like a huge library. It has infinite genetic knowledge stored inside. Almost like it was...engineered.
Sounds like a freak of nature to me.
Yes... I can't wait to meet him.
The compositional elements of his DNA chain are the same as ours, there are simply more of them tightly packed. His knowledge is probably limitless..
Is there any danger? Some kind of virus?
We put it through the cellular hygiene detector. The cell is for lack of a better word... perfect.
...This is the crucial phase, The reconstruction of pigment. Cells are bombarded with slightly greasy solar atoms which forces the body cells to react, to protect themselves. That means growing skin. Clever, eh?
Wonderful!
This thing solid?
An elephant couldn't crack it.
Mr. President, let me introduce you to Professor Mactilburgh, who runs the center.
It's an honor to receive you. Mr. President.
The cash man!
Been here long?
Don't fuck with me man or I'll blow you into tomorrow!
Isn't that a Z140? Alleviated titanium. Neuro charged assault model?
Uh..
You know you could hurt someone with this puppy..good thing it's not loaded..
It's not?
You gotta push the little yellow button...
Thanks..
You're welcome..
Not going to open?
I've never gotten a message that wasn't bad news.
How someone strong like you scared from a message? Is good news I sure!
The last two messages I got? The first one was from my wife telling me she was leaving! And the second was from my lawyer telling me he was leaving too... with my wife.
You right that is bad.. but mathematically luck must change! Grandfather say: "It never rain every day." This is good news guarantee.. I bet you lunch!
At least I won lunch.
Good philosophy..see good in bad.. I like..I prepare number one dessert.. special for you and pussy..
Apipoulai!
I suppose that means "Hi" ?
Valo massa... Chacha hamas.
Uh..you're welcome.
You hear that?
Cornelius..
Oh god!
Dinoine chagantakat!
Took the words right out of my mouth. Go on... I'll be right with you. It's our honeymoon. We're going to use the trip to get to know each other better.
Apipoulai!
Not hard to find you...just follow the Chaos...
Love...
Yes! But "love" isn't the operative word here, PEACE is!
Sometimes you can't learn everything from a screen..sometimes it's better to ask someone who has experience..
What is... Make Love?
Finished what?
Learning language.
Which one?
All 900.
You learned 900 languages in five minutes?!
Yes! Now it's your turn! I learned your language, you have to learn mine!
I know how to say "Hello". Teach me how to say "Goodbye", that's all I need.
Apipoussan!
Apipoussan?
Good! Do you know how we say "make love"?
Uh...
...Hoppihoppa.
Here we go again...
You know women normally change five times more than men.
You get that off the screen?
Yes... you know there's a lot of differences between men women.
You noticed..
OK, you can turn around!
Where you going?
I'm going to see the Diva sing. What's the matter?... Do I look bad?
No, not at all! I mean, just the opposite, you're... you're beautiful!
I told you I need to work in peace. Remember? I need to concentrate.
And you can't concentrate with me around?.
It's difficult.
You're nothing but a... a...
The words you're looking for weren't in the dictionary you studied. I won't be long.
I'm so very sad.
Why? We did pretty well, wouldn't you say?
Five hundred wars... Arms... Drugs... Money... Everything you create is used to destroy...
I told you not to read all that crap!
Protect life... Until death.
Leeloo? The Stones! We have to open them! How does it work?
The wind blows... the fire burns...
I know all that, Leeloo! I'm talking about the Stones.
...The rain falls...
It's up to you now, Angel!
I'm so tired...
You can sleep tomorrow... come on...
I want to sleep... forever...
Leeloo! Listen to me! I'll take you on a vacation afterwards! A real vacation, this time, for as long as you want. Come on! You can do it!
What's the use of saving lives... when you see what you do with them!
You're right but there are lots of good things... beautiful things...
...Like love...
Exactly.
But I don't know love... I'm like a machine programmed to save other people's lives but never to have one of my own.
I have thousands of memories but none of them are mine... There is no need for me other than this. I'm immortal but I have no life.
Yes, you do! I need you. More than you can imagine! Stand up straight!
Why?... Why would you need me?
Because...
Tell me...
I love you...
Major Dallas, if our calculations are correct you still have 57 hours owed to the Federal Army on your enlistment which is more than you will need for a mission of the utmost importance.
What mission?
To save the world.
Where have I heard this song before?
You're to leave immediately for Fhloston Paradise. Retrieve four Stones from the Diva Plavalaguna. And bring them back with the utmost discretion as possible. Any questions'?
Just one... why me?
Three reasons... One: As part of The Elite Special Forces Unit of the Federated Army you are an expert in the use of all weapons and spacecraft needed for this mission.
Two: Of all the members of your unit you were the most highly decorated.
And the third one?
You're the only one left alive...
Don't you open your messages?
I've had enough good news for today
You have won the annual Gemini contest and a trip to Fhloston Paradise. For two. Congratulations. Here are your tickets.
You couldn't come up with something a little more discreet?
Old tricks are the best tricks eh?
I'm not going.
Why not?
One reason... I want to stay the only one left alive.
...Shit!
What is it?
It's my wife.
I thought you were divorced.
I mean my future.. my ex.. My future ex.. if she sees you here I'm finished. She hates you guys. It's what killed us in the first place. Please...
...Sorry, General, but we've got no choice! It'll only take a minute! Let me set up another meeting and I'll be back.
Three of us will never fit in there!
Oh, yes you will...
...Hi.
Does it get any better or what!
...Quiver ladies, he's gonna set the world on fire right here from 5 to 7! You'll know everything there is to know about the Dman. His dreams, his desires, his most intimate of intimates. And from what I'm looking at intimate is the stud muffin's middle name. So tell me my main man... you nervous in the service?
Uh... not really.
I didn't come here to play Dumbo on the radio. So tomorrow between 5 and 7 give yourself a hand, that clear pal?
Crystal.
My main man! Please don't leave me here alone. My head's killing me and my adoring fans are gonna tear me apart! Get me outta here!
I'll take you to the bar, after that, you're on your own.
Oh, yes! Do that! You treat me right, man. Tell me all about yourself, your roots, your personal life, your childhood dreams...
I don't think this is a good time...
...You got brothers and sisters? What about your dad? Tell me about your dad! What was he like? Physically? Big, I suppose?
Yeah, very big, a giant.
I didn't have a dad... never saw him... never even heard him. 50 billion people listen to me every day... and he doesn't hear me...
You don't do what I say... I'll waste you myself. Got it?
Got it...
Six to the left. One to the right.
He's on vacation.
We got to find the leader. Mangalores don't fight without a leader.
Maybe we oughta be going, what do you think?
Not without Leeloo.
Like Korben, can I have 30 seconds of your time here?
I'll be right back.
You know how to fly this thing?
It's like a cab isn't it?
I don't even know what I'm looking for!
Fuck it! Hold tight!
Solid little jobs, aren't they?
Dear listeners, your favorite DJ is alive and kicking. It's seven o'clock and time for the news. Tune in tomorrow for another adventure.
What did you say? What did you do?
Nothing! Swear to God, I didn't do nothing!
Look, you did something that set it off. Try to remember. Concentrate. Tell me exactly what you did!!
Is that all?
Yeah... then I sighed... like this.
Welcome on board Mr. Dallas..
How you doing this morning? Sleep OK? I didn't.
Fuel level 6.03..Propulsion 2x4...
I had the worst goddamn nightmare.
You have nine points left on your license..
Thanks for reminding me..
I'm sorry..
This is a police control action..
30 seconds...
Anyone know how to release the lines on this crate?
6... 5...
Found it?
...Hello?
You're the nastiest dirtbag I know in this stinking City!
Hi Ma...
I've been playing twice a week for 20 years, 20 years I've been eating those shitty croquettes.
Are you listening to me, you ingrate!
Yes ma..
Other than that... You all right?
...And now you're making fun of me? I'm warning you! If you don't take me after all these years of sacrifice, I'll never forgive you!!
I'm coming!. Ma, what're you talking about?
I get it! You want to make me beg, is that it?
All I want is an explanation! I just got in, I lost my job. I smashed my cab. I got mugged, but other than that everything's peachy, Ma, thanks for asking!! Now settle down and explain to me calmly..
You just won a trip, you dolt! Ten days in Fhloston Paradise for two!
Ma. If I'd won, I'd know about it. Someone would have notified me.
They've been blaring out your name on the radio for the last hour, blockhead!
Yeah?
Have you pulled yourself together?
...Not yet.
Hello?
You little sleaze bag!
...Ma???
Don't you ever ask me for another thing in my life again, you've killed your poor mother with your own hands!
The Fifth Element...
Take them and put them in a safe place.
Will the elements be gone now forever from this place?
When mankind comes to its senses. We will return.
Knowing mankind as I do, that could take centuries!
Time is of no importance, only life is important.
When EVIL returns so shall we.
We will be ready, Lord.
Akina delutan, noushan.
...'Scuse me?
Daya deo dono Dato. Dalutan!
It there's one thing I don't need advice on, it's how to drive.
...Priest...
You're not that bad... Come on we'll get you to a doctor.
Vito... Cor... Nilious... Priest...
Vito Cornelius?
Eto Akta Gamat!
I'm sorry, it's just that... I was told to wake you up gently, so I figured...
...What's your name?
Leeloo Minai LekararibaLaminaiTchai Ekbat De Sebat.
Hey, that's... cute... Do you have a nickname, something a little... shorter?
...Leeloo.
Yeah?
Hey bud! Finger here.
I love you too Major, but you haven't called me that since basic training.
I was talking to the cat.
Oh, yeah, I forgot.You still prefer your cat to the real thing.
At least, the cat comes back.
You still pining for that two timing bitch. Forget her. There are a million women out there.
I don't want a million  I just want one. A perfect one.
Don't exist bud.
I just found a picture of you.
How do I look?
Like shit.
I don't need one.
You forgetting who sat next to you for a thousand missions. I know how you drive.
Finger! I'm driving a cab now, not a space fighter!!
How many points you got left on your license?
Uh... at least fifty.
In your dreams! See you tonight!
Hello?
Hey bud...I'm waiting all day here.
Finger..man..I'm sorry..listen..I was on the way over but I had a fare fall into my lap.. y'know one of those big fares you just can't resist..
So, just how big was this fare?
5'7", green eyes... long legs... great skin... perfect..
Uh huh..and I don't suppose you got the name of this..perfect fare..
Leeloo..
You're a good man... She was right to have chosen you...
Who?
The Fifth Element... The Supreme Being... Your wife...
Leeloo... is... she's...
Yes, and more than that... You must give her the Stones, she's the only one who knows how to use them.
...So Cornelius was telling the truth!
She was taught to love the life of others... but not her own. You have to teach her to love if you want her to truly live!
I'll help her, I promise, but I think you should tell me where the Stones are!
Do you love her?
I... I don't know! We hardly know each other... it takes time!
I don't have time... I need to know.
Listen, the last time I admitted to a woman I loved her ... I never saw her again.
I would like to have died in peace...
I'm sorry, but... the Stones...
They are... with me...
It's a miracle!!!
What is?
I can't wear these clothes! This calls for dignity! I have to dress the part!
Father, will you please explain what's going on?
The Supreme Being, the fifth element is here, in our parish!!! It's a miracle!!!
Father. You sure she's the Supreme Being?
Absolutely sure There's the triple suns on her gloves!
What's she doing?
Learning our history! The last 5000 years that she missed! She's been out of circulation a while, you know.
Uh father, I know she's been through a lot... but the sacred stones..we don't have much time..
Yes. Of course..
There was this guy with a limp who came a month ago..said he was an art dealer ... Asking all these questions about the Sacred Stones..at the time I didn't think anything of it.. What was his name? I'm so bad with names...
I didn't know your size.
They really made her...
Perfect.
I got it! Everything here we need to know about Fhloston Paradise Hotel... and a detailed blueprint of the entire hotel!
Good work, my son. Now all we need is a way to get there.
Where's Leeloo?
On the plane... with Mr. Dallas... the real one.
It's all my fault. I'm the servant... It's my mission! Here!
You're all safe. Thanks be to God!
Later, David! Later! There's not a minute to lose!
Imagine for a moment that this. thing is not anything that can be identified because it prefers not to be, because it is the antithesis of all we are. Because it is evil.. TOTAL EVIL.
One more reason to shoot first eh?
Your theory is interesting Father but I don't think we have time to go into it right now!
Time is of no importance, Mr. President. Only life is important.
That's exactly what we are going to try and do: Protect the lives of some 200 billion of our fellow citizens! General? You may fire when ready.
We have fortyeight hours, the time it needs to adapt itself to our living conditions.
And then?
And then it will be too late. The goal of evil is to wipe out life! All forms of life. For all eternity...Life upsets it.
Is there anything that can stop it?
Yes..thank God..
But what happens if instead of this... Ultimate Warrior... it is EVIL who stands here?
White turns to black. Light to Dark. Life to Death. For all eternity.
Did you see that..thing..swallow our battleship like a gum drop? You can't even tell me what it is! I ask you for options you give me bullshit. Give them permission to enter our territories with my warmest regards.
Thank you, Mr. President.
What are we going to do?
This is government business now. You ought to go home and get some rest, Father.
Excuse me, I'm looking for a priest.
Weddings are one floor down. Congratulations.
She's not my bride, she's my fare. She's looking for this Vito Cornelius. According to the phone guide he lives here.
That's me. But I don't know who she is... where did you find her?
She dropped in on me... holding this.
Who are you?
I brought the girl remember?
The girl?
He's a she!
You noticed...
There's not a moment to lose! Wake her up, but be gentle about it! This woman is mankind's most precious possession! She is... perfect!
So you do know her.
Uh yes, we're cousins..distant cousins..
They all like this in your family, father?
She's an exception..
Thank you so much for your help Mr...?
Dallas. Korben Dallas.
Yes. That's fine! Thank you very much. A thousand times over!
I might call to check up on her, you know... to see if she's better?
She's fine, really..don't you worry.. just needs some rest..she's had a very long trip.
I know. I was there when she arrived.
Excuse me! Just one thing! She said something to me a while ago and... I don't really get it... Akta Gamat?
It means, "Never without my permission".
That's what I thought.
I'm sorry to have to resort to such methods, but we heard about your good luck on he radio and we need the tickets to Fhloston.
Is that the usual way priests go on vacation?
We're not going on vacation..we're on a mission..
What kind of mission?
We have to save the world.
Good luck..
Of course.
Father, I was in the Army for awhile and every time they told us we were on a mission to save the world the only thing that changed was I lost a lot of friends. So thanks for the offer.. but no thanks.
What are you doing?
Trying to save your ass so you can save the world.
You're probably very angry with me and I quite understand. But I want you to know I'm fighting for a noble cause.
Yeah, I know... to save the world... but right now all I want to do is save Leeloo.
Leeloo's in trouble?
When is she not in trouble?
Uh.. Have you tried the Diva's suite?
Don't tell me you don't know how all this works?
Theoretically, yes! The four Stones form the beam and the Fifth Element is supposed to stand in the middle there, but... I don't have the reference book. I've never seen the Stones work!
There's no light! You told me there were supposed to be four beams of light.
Yes, of course, but... The Stones are shut! They have to be open for it to work.
And you don't know how they open, is that what you are saying?
That's what I'm saying.
...We're saved!
I'm fucked!
Zorg. JeanBaptiste Emmanuel Zorg... nice to see you again
I remember you now..the so called art dealer.
I'm glad you got your memory back, Father... Because you're going to need it... Where are the stones?
...Why on earth do the stones interest you?
Personally, they are of no interest to me, I'd rather sell weapons..but I have a customer... so tell me...
Even it I did know where the stones were I would never tell somebody like you.
Why? What's wrong with me?
...I'm a priest! I'm here to serve life, All you want to do is destroy it.
Ah, Father... You are so wrong. Let me explain...
...would you like a drink?
No thank you.
Follow me.. Life, which you so nobly serve, comes from destruction. Look at this empty glass.
...Look at all these little things... so busy all of a sudden. Notice how each one is useful. What a lovely ballet, so full of form and color. So full of..life!
They are robots!
Father, by creating a little destruction, I am, in fact, encouraging life! So, in reality, you and I are in the same business!
Destroying a glass is one thing..killing people with the weapons you produce is quite another.
Let me reassure you Father..I will never kill more people in my entire life than religion has killed in the last 2000 years.
You are a monster, Zorg!
I know...
Appipulai Leeloo Minai..
CorniLius?
At your service.
What're you laughing about?
Napoleon... small.
The case..with the stones... Where is it?
San Agamat chay bet... envolet!
The case was stolen?
Iksetkiba. Me imanetaba oum dalat!
You know exactly where they are!
Vano da, mechteba?! Soun domo kala chon hammas!
No, I'm not proud of myself... But we don't have the luxury of choice.
Akta dedero ansila do mektet.
I can't pretend to be your husband... David's in great shape.
How you doing, man?
Not bad, not bad.
You want to go outside?
Naw, right here's okay.
You sure?
I'm sure. Everybody here's looking at everybody else's ass.
How about some ammo?
It's loaded... I got some shells in here.
How much?
This is clean shit. No serial numbers and never been used...
Don't mess with me. How much?
Five bills.
Five. On credit.
This ain't a credit business.
Yeah, I know that, but this is me and we're old friends. I haven't got the money so what are you gonna do about it?
Give it back.
Try and take it.
Fuck you. You got no right for this kind of play.
I'll got your money to you. No sweat.
Surprise, Luther.
Whaddya want? I thought you were locked up
I want the money, asshole, what do you think? The money that Reggie hid...
I don't know what you're talkin' about.
You want that Indian to snap her neck?
Instead of worryin' about Reggie, you better worry about me...
Don't give me this, we were partners.
Billy, go ahead, break it...
No! Don't kill her. I can get you the money.
When?
I can't get it until Monday. Honest.
You chickenshit punk...
Honest. The place we stashed it opens Monday morning. I can't get it till then. Monday morning, that's when it opens. After that, I'll get the money to you right away...
Come on, you can trust me. Please.
You try to mess with us or go to the cops, I promise you, I'll put holes in her you wouldn't believe.
Let her go.
First, the money.
Rosalie, you okay?
What are you talkin' about? I said I wouldn't hurt her.
How hot are they?
Hot? Hey, they're not even room temperature.
How ya doin'?
Can't complain.
We got a lot to talk about.
Yeah, old times.
We'll follow you. Take it slow,okay?
Sure, right.
Hey...
Shut up.
What the hell's wrong? I didn't do anything.
What do you want? What's goin' on?
Shut up.
Stall.
What do you want?
Keep stallin'.
Alright, I'm coming...hold on.
Who the hell are you?
Name's Hammond, Reggie Hammond. I heard a lot about you. And any friend of Jack's is a friend of mine.
I'm not so sure I can say the same thing...You don't look like a cop.
Well, I been workin' the other side of the street for the last few years. And you don't exactly look like a shrink, wearin' that dress...
Shrink major, not a shrink.
Hard man to live with.
How would you know?
Hey, two days with him is enough.
That's no bull.
He was the only one of my bunch that was my friend... He was loyal, went all the way for you...
In all due respect, he sounds kind of pathetic to me. The kind of guy that runs home to his momma or some girlfriend. Have you two ace detectives checked that out?
What am I wanted for?
I don't answer questions, I ask 'em...
I don't think your gun's loaded...
This is a .44 Magnum, the most powerful handgun in the world. You gotta ask yourself just one question. Are you feelin' lucky?
I still don't think it's loaded.
Hey, you're right.
You're hopeless.
That's the way I see it, too.
I'm all wet.
What's wrong with that?
A guy in the bar called me a dumb bitch today.
What'd you do?
Irrigated his face with the shot of J and B I'd just poured him. Then I tried to deck the sucker.
I guess he got the message...
Then I sit back and I think, I mean, who's to say I'm not a dumb bitch. I work in a bar, right? I can't read a list of my academic credentials to every boozehound that comes in the place... You are what you do...
Positive selfimage problem all over again ... You are who you decide you are unless you're the type that lets assholes decide for you.
Aren't you the one that thinks all psychotherapy is bullshit?
I do think all psychotherapy is bullshit. But just because I think it's bullshit doesn't mean I don't know something about it.
If this is your idea of sympathetic interest in my problems, I'll take brutal indifference.
Hey, you know what I really think?
Tell meI'm dyin' to hear it.
I think you're ashamed to tend bar which is sad because you look great in that outfit they make you wear... You pull down four bills a week which is damn good, and you mix the best Pina Coladas I've ever had... I think that if you need bigger and better things ... then go for em.
You know, if you let me come over to your place once in a while, you could put on a clean shirt in the morning.
What makes you think I have any clean shirts at my place?
Maybe you ought to buy me one.
Maybe I would if I knew when you were coming back.
That's a fairly crummy way to start a morning.
Maybe I got a fairly crummy day ahead.
Maybe that makes a nice excuse.
Maybe you don't know what the hell you're talking about.
When you start with that attitude... it's like I don't know who you are.
What do you want to know? What difference does it make? I'm the guy in your bed the last three months. I make you feel good. You make me feel good. What the hell else do you want from a guy?
I wish you'd stop trying to make me mad so I won't care for you... I wish you'd give me a little more of a chance.
You know something, Jack, you really are hopeless.
That's the way I see it, too.
Call me later.
You sure you want me to?
Yeah, for some reason, I'm sure...
Thanks for the coffee.
I think you forgot this. Hands him his wallet and badge...
Guess people ought to know who I am...
Great place for lunch.
Yeah, one of my favorites.
You made the front page.
Yeah, Guess it must have been a slow news day...
Jack, are you okay?
Sure, okay, fine, no problem... See, there's this kid in jail ... First thing I got to do is go up and see what he knows ...
Look, spare me the macho bullshit about your gun...
Bullshit? I'll tell you about bullshit. My gun's a real weapon in the hands of a real maniac who knows how to use it. It isn't my macho bullshit that's killing people, my gun is ...
Look, Jack, if you make everything your personal responsibility, you'll turn into a bad cop. It's not a practical way to function...
I didn't get burned, two cops did. Listen, I'll tell you about personnel responsibility. I like to get the job done right. And if I don't get my job done right... I'm for shit.
Here it comes again ... the sacred job...
That's right. I'm not like you. I'm not gonna sit on my ass wondering what's right and what's wrong... There's a psycho out there killing people with my gun and I'm gonna get him. Because it's my job. And if you don't get that...
I get that. The job first. Everything else, especially me, second. I get it. I don't like it.
Just one. Some lady called. Said she's a little hotheaded sometimes... But she still wants her occasional roommate. She'd like to talk it over after she gets off work tonight... if it's humanly possible....
Elaine, look, I'm in the middle of sone stuff right now... I'm not gonna have time to come by. I don't know when I can get there.
Listen, Goddamn it if you think I'm happy about it, you're nuts. I just gotta take care of a few things, okay?
This is not the way people who care for each other are supposed to behave.
I'm at work, asshole. Where else?
Elaine! I... I'm sorry... I was expecting somebody else... police business.
No wonder you're so popular.
No, it's I'm just surprised you called.
So am I.
The number ... what's the Goddamn number?
Jack? What was that?
Elaine, I gotta put you on hold...
Jack, wait...
Just a second, that's all!
Hello.
Hi, it's me...
Fuck you.
Hey, I don't believe it.
Hiya, kid.
I ought to have you and your friend thrown out...
Don't. We've had a hard night.
I can see that. Pardon me for saying so, but you look like shit. What happened?
We and my pal here have been taking it on the chin for the last few hours...
You real down?
I've been better...Dead end. No Ganz, no Indian.
Nothing. No sign of Ganz. No sign of the Indian. Airport's clean. Train station. Bus station. Docks... Shit...
Ganz is going to be hard to track. Just a pure schizo ... wires all crossed... totally without any pattern... kill anybody... The Indian... himself... anybody...
How do you know?
Jack, it's all over the papers. He's an obvious type. But this Indian...
What makes you think they were lesbians, or as you so quaintly put it, dykes?
Come on, they were a little old for a slumber party.
It might pay to reexamine a few of your more primitive notions. I was in bed with a girlfriend watching TV last week, Jack, and one thing we know about me is I happen not to be a lesbian ... Now, if this Indian's girlfriend got upset when you came looking for him, it could just be she's still vulnerable to him.
So what?
When a guy hurts you, then comes back bleeding on his hands and knees, who knows, he might just be irrestible.
Hey, Come on, shrink time's over. They wouldn't go see some old girlfriend.
Oh, yeah, well look where you came when you were down and out.
Whaddya think?
What do I know? I'm just a bartender.
Let's go, Reggie.
How'd they take it back at headquarters?
Usual bullshit. You make one smart move and everybody wants to be your friend... You know somethin', shootin' guys sucks. Especially compared to this.
I've been waiting a long time to hear you say that.
Yeah, bein' a hardass all the time is a real drag, but it works.
Three more hours...
Where is he?
Promised I'd turn my back while he... ah, never mind...
Tell me.
He's takin' care of the same business I'll be takin' care of  soon as I dry off.
You're impossible...
That's what I always say.
A cop...
I sure ain't his fairy godmother... now I'm looking for Ganz...where is he?
Haven't seen him for years. That's the truth.
You just took a shot at me, asshole. I think you do know where he is.
Who gives a fuck what you think?
Ganz and Billy got my girl, Rosalie.
I think I met her. Now tell us something we don't know, like where they stashed her.
I don't know.
He ... he wants me to help him skip town.
When? How?
I dunno ... he's gonna call me...
Is that what this guy Ganz had in the hotel?
Every last bit of it. The big guy's room was empty.
I'll help you out.
This guy must have had a .44 like yours, Jack. Now he's got yours.
Shit.
Billy Bear...
Backup man from the East Bay. Worked with Ganz a few years ago and sprung him from the road gang.
Who are all these?
They all pulled a bunch of jobs with Ganz about four years ago.
Wait a minute, wait a minute... who's this?
Uhh ... Wong, Henry Wong. He was in on the same job.
Tell me that's not the same guy.
Hey ... Dick Tracy.
I think I wanna have a discussion about it with any of the ones still walking. Can we find them?
Here's the file. Cates checks the file.
One of em's in the slam.
You look awful.
So do you...been a long day.
Long night, too, from what I heard ... Word's going around that in addition to losing Ganz for the second time, and in addition to Haden busting you back to Patrolman, some jig beat the crap out of you.
Aw, bullshit, you heard wrong.
Doesn't look like it.
Nothing came in for me yet? No calls?
Nothing.
Bullshit red tape.
I'm heading out. How about you?
I got to wait for a call.
Okay. See you in the morning... you know, you ought to get some rest...
I almost forgot. That pal of yours from the Vice Squad wants you to call him.
What?
Jesus Christ. Why the hell didn't you tell me before?
I'm not paid to take your personal calls. He was in some bar. .. off duty.
That's what you say, Cates...
Yeah.
But that's what you say about all of us all the tine ... we're always the ones fucking up when you tell it...
The truth hurts, doesn't it, buddy?
Somebody steals your gun, you're supposed to file a report.
Are you gonna tell me about police procedure? Do me a favor, don't give me a bunch of crap.
I guess when two cops die on account of your fuck up you want to keep it as quiet as possible...
I want to be left alone on this one. Algren was killed with my gun.
Yeah, I read the report...
Hey, the bastard's got my gun. I want it back.
Jack, come on, there is an official department policy about cop killings. Cop killers represent a special priority because any man crazy enough to kill a cop is a greater threat to an unarmed civilian... In other words, we can't seen like we're in the revenge business... I know, we all know the truth's a little different.
Yeah...
Anthing botherin' you besides losin' your gun?
Yeah. It bothers me when cops get hurt while I'm makin' a play. I don't like it.
You might be more of a team player and a little less of a hot dog on this one, Jack.
Being a hot dog's worked pretty well for me so far... Besides, I got a lead...
Okay. You're not a team player. You gotta do things your own way. Fine. Nail this guy and make us all look good. But you better watch your ass. If you screw up, I can promise you, you're goin' down.
You really know how to send a guy out with a great attitude. He starts to go.
Jack?
Yeah?
Try not to get your ass shot to pieces. We got enough dead cops on this one.
I'll keep it in mind.
What the bell happened?
I lost them, that's what happened.
How did they get away?
They ran. As fast as they could. Caught a train.
Which one pulled the trigger?
The Indian. I was about 30 yards away.
You couldn't get to him?
What a screwup.
Right. I screwed up. I fucked up. I messed up. Anybody could have done better, especially you. I bet you're real good at hitting targets through crowds.
Don't duck the bullet Cates. Why didn't you call in for backup instead of makin' a grandstand play?
I didn't have the time.
Too bad, it would've covered your ass. Now you're in the shit and so's the department. In case you haven't noticed, this wasn't our finest hour... I told you everyone was watchin' on this one. Maybe you better start thinkin' about writin' tickets off a three wheel bike.
He's got more brains and more guts in one corner of his asshole than any cop I've worked with.
Just cause you say it with conviction don't mean shit to me... How you gonna take to a pink slip, huh?.
Where the Christ do you think you're going?
I'm taking my prisoner back to jail.
You got a name, cop?
Try Cates. And let's talk in private, okay?
Sure, anything you want.
You here to write my life story?
Not likely, Reggie. Maybe I just need some help.
Yeah, I noticed...
Ganz is in jail. He's gonna be there two years after I'm on the street.
Didn't work out that way. He busted out with a big Indian. They capped two guards on a road gang. Nice meeting you Reggie.
Yeah?
I can deliver Ganz. But you gotta get me outta here first.
You're crazy.
I can help you, man, but you gotta get me out. I got to be on the street. Get me outta here.
What's the big deal about you bein' on the street?
I got a lot to protect.
Bullshit.
It's the only way you're gonna get Ganz.
I'll think about it.
This prison gives out $400 suits?
What are you talkin' about? This suit's mine. It cost $900.
We're supposed to be after a killer, not a string of hookers...
Listen, it may be a little out of date. You know, I got a reputation for lookingreal sharp with the ladies...
I don't need to hear your jive. I already got that department taken care of...
You got a girl... shit... the generosityof women never ceases to amaze me.
Hey, no way. Take off the bracelets or no deal.
You just don't get it, do your Reggie? There isn't any deal. I own your ass.
No way to start a partnership.
Get this. We ain't partners. We ain't brothers. We ain't friends. I'm puttin' you down and keepin' you down until Ganz is locked up or dead. And if Ganz gets away, you're gonna be sorry we ever met.
Shit. I'm already sorry.
Yeah.
It looks like you bought it off one of the brothers.
Okay, let's get down to it. I did my part and got you out. So now you tell me where we're goin'?
Don't worry, I got a move for ya. An awesome move. A guy named Luther. Ganz'll be paying him a visit. We go to him right away.
Luther was part of the gang?
What gang you talkin' about, Jack?
I can read a police file, shithead, and quit calling me Jack.
Just an expression man, don't mean nothin'.
I don't give a damn. It happens to be my name.
Then what're you complainin' about? At least nobody's calling you shithead....
I may call you worse than that.
Just up the street, the other side, over there ... Now, don't bother knockin' on the door. Luther ain't the kind of guy that looks for company.
Your pal nuts enough to take a shot at me?
Luther ain't the reliable type. I don't want you shot yet, Cates ... not before you been a help to me.
I'm helpin' you, huh?
Quit playin' cop and undo this cuff, Jack, I need to talk to this man.
I'm tellin' you to drop the Goddam gun.
I got a whole thing about people pointin' guns at me.
Just throw me the Goddamn gun.
Hey, this works pretty good.
Thank you.
Want to try it again?
What do you think?
I think you better put him on ice, man.
He's gotta take that call ... if there is one.
If you let him run around till Tuesday, he's gonna run right to Ganz and warn him. Ain't you, motherfucker?
We're on the move. Let's go. As they walk toward a corridor.
Do you know how close I was to getting some trim. And you fucked' it up.
Yeah, well, my ass bleeds for you. And I didn't get you out so you could go on a Goddamn "trim" hunt... stop moaning.
Speakin' of moans my Stomach is startin' to growl.
We eat when I say we eat.
Bullshit ... I ain't moving till I get something to eat. You've been treating me like shit ever since I came out here. If you don't like it, you can take me back to the penitentiary and kiss my hungry black ass goodbye. And I want some food some place nice.. Some good people, nice music...
Yeah, I'm hungry too. I know of a place. Let's go eat.
Yeah, I want mandolins, flowers... They move off down the corridor.
Who'd you call on the phone back at the booking station?
Just get in the car and keep your mouth shut.
You really do have onoe, huh, Jack... what's her problem besides you?
She's got the same complaint as half the Goddamn population. She can't get the job she's trained for and it pisses her off... Anyway, what the fuck do you care?
Now, where we goin', convict?
Mission District. Gonna find us an Indian.
I don't give out the details.
Last night, two nights ago, three?
Last night.
You have a good time?
Sure. Then we had a fight this morning.
At least you took care of business and got the important part in before she came down on you...Tell me a little about her. She got great tits?
Well?
It's a long shot, but...Billy used to tend bar here a few years back. I heard him talk about it.
This part of town, they'll make us for heat the second we walk in. Just back me up like you've got a piece...
Back you up? Now why would I wanna do that?
If they kick my ass, they'll sure as hell carve yours up...
But you can handle it all right, huh? Real amazin' how far a gun and a badge can carry some cats...
Bullshit. Attitude and experience get you through...
I been in a lot of bars where a white cop rousted me and some of the brothers. All those clowns ever had going for 'em was a gun and a badge...
You need five years training to handle a joint like...
Hey, you wanna bet?
I got two problems. Number one, I'm not playin' games. Number two, you got nothin' to bet with.
If we come outta this joint with Ganz' phone number, or a dead Indian, or anything else useful, then you could turn the other way for half an hour while I get laid...
Why? Anybody that talks about women as much as you do probably can't get it up anyway.
That's never been one of my problems.
I'll tell you what happens if you lose... you tell the truth for once.
What are you talkin' about?
You tell me what Ganz busted out for, he's after a lot more than just gettin' out of jail. And whatever it is, you're part of it.
I don't know what you're talking about. I just wanna see Ganz nailed.
The bet's off.
I'm gonna enjoy this ... here, I'll even loan you my badge.
I thought you said bullshit and experience are all it takes.
This place don't seem real popular with the brothers.
My kind of place. I always liked country boys.
That wasn't necessary, buddy. I got this under control.
Some of us citizens are with you all the way, Officer.
You made that move, huh?
While you're at it, You can give me the switchblade, too.
There.
Must be billy's girl.
Come on.
Let's go.
Wait a minute. Maybe these ladies would like to go a few laps with us. How about it? I been nearly three years in prison and...
This sucks. A maniac gets hold of my gun and goes all over the streets killing people with it. So, instead of me being where I oughta be, which is in bed giving my girl the high, hard one, I'm out here doing this shit, roaming around with some overdressed, charcoalcolored loser like you.
You wanna leave, man? Let me take care of Ganz all by myself.
You? Don't make me laugh. You can't take care of shit. You've been dicking me around since we started on this turdhunt. All you're good for is games... So far, what I got outta you is nothin'...
I'm impressed with you too, Jack you did a real good job of busting up a couple of dykes bedded down for the night.
Luther knew more than he told me and so do you...Now you better tell we what the fuck this is all about. I gave you 48 hours to come up with something and the clock's runnin' ...
Maybe I don't like the way you ask.
Who gives a Goddamn what you think? You're just a crook that's got a weekendpass ... You're not even a name anymore. Just a spear chucker with a Goddamn number stenciled on the back of his prison fatigues...
Yeah, right. You want to try again?
Naw, you'd just call your pals back to bail you out one more time.
They saved your ass, convict.
One thing's for sure, Jack. That's how you'll tell the story.
I been waiting a long time for some money.
How much?
Half a million.
Jesus.
Just tell me about the money.
Me and my bunch hit a dealer in the middle of a sale. It's the kind of money nobody ever reports stolen. I was sittin' pretty, livin' in the high cotton, then somebody fingered me for another job. ... Some psycho who's out there capping people with some cop's gun.
He's after your money.
You catch on real fast...Okay, Jack, let's talk deal. How much of my money you gonna let me keep?
We split 5050?
Not likely, convict.
You gonna let me keep any of it?
Depends on how things work out. I believe in the merit system. So far you haven't built up any points.
Where's the money?
In the trunk of a car. A lot better than under a mattress, right?
Right, partner.
Get this. We ain't partners. We ain't brothers. We ain't friends. If Ganz gets away with my money, you're gonna be sorry we ever met.
Yeah. Right.
Where's the goddamn car?
You're a real case, you know that, Jack?
This'll show you how smart I am. I got it parked.
...For three years? Let's hope it wasn't a towaway zone.
You just drove by it.
You son of a bitch. You knew where the money was all along and all we had to do was come here and wait. I almost got my ass blown off twice tonight for nothing.
I wasn't sure the money was still there until we saw Luther. You almost got your ass shot off for nothing once, not twice, Jack.
Shit.
You took a big chance, leaving this here all this time.
Not really. I figured Ganz was put down for a long time. And I knew Luther would never job me on his own. He's too chickenshit.
Guess what? Luther just got in line.
What?
Musta got some primo bondsman.
Jesus Christ. That's a disgrace The guy pulls a gun on a cop and he's out in 24 hours. I tell you some of the courts these days are just a fucking revolving door.
Jesus Christ, look at all the dust on my car...why in the hell don't he take it to a car wash?
Didn't know you darker people went in for foreign jobs.
I had no choice. Some white asshole bought the last piece of shit skyblue Cadillac.
You'd think the guy'd be smart enough to know he was being tailed.
Tryin' to save his girl, man. He's in another world.
If I was his size and had Ganz on my ass, I'd just leave town.
I'm tellin' you the man's in love... he wants to be a hero for his girl.
Oh, yeah, does bein' in love make you stupid?
I suppose you'd never be like Luther and let a woman get to you...
I let women get to me. The quest for pussy is the meaning of life ... I got my own personal philosophy about 'em. Keep women separate from guns, money and business ... women are for spending money. They got nothing to do with helping you make it.
That ain't philosophy. That's common sense.
Say, do you always work people over like you did Luther?
If they don't tell me what I need to know...
Doesn't it get... Tiring?
I'm not in this 'cause it's fun. I'm not into hitting guys 'cause it makes me feel good either... I do it 'cause it works...
You got a very depressing view of life, man... you gotta smile once in awhile...
Maybe Luther hopes Ganz'll give him a piece of your money...
If he's hoping that then he's dumber than I think he is, which would be amazin', cause I already think he's real dumb.
A long time agb Luther must of got the shit beat out of him so bad it just rattled his brain ... that would account for him making so many wrong moves in a row...
Yeah, it doesn't look like he's gonna make it as a dangerous tough guy...
You know, I'd be embarrassed if I let my wheels go the way you've done with this job.
What you don't understand is, I don't give a damn about how this thing looks.
No class...
Class isn't somethin' you buy, punk. Look at you, five hundred dollar suit and you're still a lowlife.
We're getting too close ... Cates, what's the matter, you been takin' dumb pills?
Yeah, most cops are pretty dumb... But since you're the one that landed in jail what's that make you?
That was in style a couple years back, man.
Right. if you ever switch from armed robbery to pimping, then you're all set.
Bullshit. Then i'm staying with the money.
You stay with me...
No way...
Hey, Jack, how ya doin'? What took you so long to call, man? I been waitin' ... I'm at Vroman's up in the Fillmore. Yeah, Vroman's... 'Course you don't hang out here; it's for the brothers.
I'll be there in a minute. You don't move your ass, right?
Where's luther?
Be polite. Say hello. This is Candy.
Hello. And goodbye.
What about Luther?
What about Ganz?
We missed.
You missed ... Luther took a taxi to the hotel across the street. Made a phone call.
Maybe we should pay Luther a visit.
Let him get some sleep. He's going to need it.
They must have set up a meeting for the morning; Luther left an 8 am wakeup and put up the "Don't Disturb" sign. He's trading his girl for the money. All we have to do to grab Ganz is not go blind.
So you took the rest of the night off...
Tell me something. Why didn't you just take the money off Luther and split?
Forget it. I want Ganz as bad as you do and I got some other news for you...
I don't know why, but I'm going to let you keep it. Maybe because you told me you had it, or maybe just because I'm too tired to argue...
You sure that's the reason?
Thanks for callin' in... and I guess Maybe... Look, I'm sorry I called you Watermellon nigger... those kinds of things. I was just leanin' on ya, doin' my job.
Bein' good at your job don't explain everything, Jack ...
Yeah. Guess not.
Yeah, I see her.
I can just take her right across the street to Luther's hotel. All I need is some money for the room.
That was quick.
When you been in prison three years, it don't take long. Let's go.
Why?
Luther's on the move...
Notice something funny about that bus?
Yeah. It missed the last four stops.
Hey, how'd my car get here?
I had it impounded. Come on, we'll use it for haulin' you back to the slam.
Back to jail in my own car. Ganz got away. Got all my money. It just don't seem right.
I don't know about you, but I could use a drink... I'll buy you one. It'll be my goodbye present.
Sorry we didn't do better, Jack. I feel like I let you down.
Naw, you didn't let me down. It was a long shot all the way. We gave 'em a good run at it.
Yeah, but we didn't get 'em.
It's late, they're closing...
Don't worry about it.
Yeah, well the only woman of the Indian's we ran into was shacked up with her dyke girlfriend. I guess she went with him before she came outta the Closet ... They both looked mad enough to kill him...
Yeah, too bad. They were real nice lookin' too...In bed together, hardly any clothes one watching TV...
Do I get to kiss her too?
If she's right, and if you don't screw up.
What if your girl's theory turns out to be bullshit? I mean, they could be in Rio de Janeiro.
I've got to play it rough with them. If they know anything, I'm gonna know it.
Hey, there she is...
Whatever play I maker just back me up.
If we run into Billy first, let me try and talk him in.
Sure, I'll give you a shot at it, but Ganz is mine. You know, that big Indian plays it for keeps...
Yeah, and I know Ganz sure ain't no sweetheart... I wouldn't like it if this partnership ended before it gets started.
Partnership?
Well, you got to admit we come a long way.
You okay?
Yeah. But I wasn't there for a second.
You did pick a real strange time to go and be brave all on your own...
Okay, reggie, start bustin' my chops... Tell me how great you were with that chick.
Hey, Jack, real men don't have to go in for that macho bullshit ... but I was fantastic.
Wait a minute, Cates. I've been waitin' three years for that. I don't think it's fair, man. What about the merit system.? You were gonnna give me a few thousand.
There's nothin' to talk about.
It's your money. It'll be here in six months when you get out.
And you're tellin' me you don't want any of this cash?
That's right. Not my style, Reggie..
You are an awesomely weird cop. Sure wish there were more like you runnin' around out here.
No, you don't. If I ever get word of you steppin' over the line again, I'm gonna ventilate that suit of yours.
Spare met Jack. I'm into legit investments from here on in.
Thanks.
No trouble, Jack. But, listen, suppose I stay a crook? Where'd you get the idea that you could catch me?
You lying son of a bitch...
What are you talking about? We didn't kill her ...
After I get outta this, cop...I'm gonna live forever...
I don't think you're gonna make it.
Whaddya mean...I got your gun ... I got his money... I got everything...
I got hit. I can't believe it. I got shot.
You're done. End of story.
I ain't gonna beg for my life. It ain't cool.
I said police. Now drop the goddamn gun.
Don't give me that police shit. You drop it.
How about it?
I used to go with him...I don't know where the hell he is. I haven't seen him for two weeks. And I don't think I will. He owes me money...
I hear you've got visitors.
Would you guys...
No time for any of that crap any more, lady... I'll rip your lungs out if you don't answer fast.
You and the other one, you're still Billy's girls. You always were his girls...
Yeah. Sure, i'm crazy in love with him, who wouldn't be...
You're gonna help us take him.
No chance.
He can live or die ... You let us in and he's got a chance to make it. Otherwise, he gets ventilated.
Where's ganz?
In the back. Down the other corridor.
I'm candy...
Excuse me, baby, but if i don't get some action tonight, I'm gonna bust. You interested?
Hey, what kind of talk is that?
Oh ... You're a schoolteacher...
No, I go to a school to learn how to do hair. It's a government program. But really I want to be a model  and I am definitely not sellin'.
Goodbye.
Hey, don't you think a hair stylists got any interest in gettin' it on?
Here you go sweetheart, throw it my way.
You're in a hurry.
Yeah, i been waiting three years.
You just quit bein' a priest or somethin'?
No, baby, nothin' like that. Look, there's a place across the street. We can go right over there...
What's the matter with my place?
No, it's gotta be here and now. Believe me. Only I don't have the damn money for a room...
Well, maybe I'll see you later ...
Here's hoping, baby...
Hello, again.
I just struck it rich... I think we can do a little business. As a matter of fact, I think we can have a party.
Here you go, baby.
Hey, don't do that. I said I wasn't a pro, remember?
Hey, no, I'm tryin' to be nice. Buy yourself something pretty. I'd do it, but I got to go. I got this cop waitin' for me...
I'll buy ya the best dinner in San Francisco...how'd that be? Then we'll go dancin', okay?
Now you're talkin'. See ya...
Maybe you shoulda stole a better truck, Tonto.
You got a real big mouth, convict.
I want to drive awhile.
I ain't tired yet.
Maybe after we get done with him I'm gonna buy us some girls.
Whaddya mean, buy?
Pros.
Pay money?
Yeah, dummy. Money.
I never paid for it in my life.
It's better when you pay... they let you do anything.
They always let me do anything. I don't want to pay for it. I never paid for it in my life.
Just do what I say, okay? We'll pay for the girls and have a good time... Don't you trust me?
Maybe that's where I'm gonna cut your throat.
He's just kiddin', you just keep doin' what I tell ya, you'll be okay.
Hey, what about me?
And I need one more for my pal. Yeah. Make her an Indian. No, not a turban, you know, a squaw.
Yeah.
Vodka.
Maybe you better have a Black Russian.
No, man, I think I'll have a vodka.
Now how's your memory doin'?
Fuck off. I don't know what the hell you're talkin' about.
Maybe I better ask around, see what your pals think.
I don't give a shit who you ask.
I don't give a damn about his girl...
Look, give me a break, you're going to have to settle for her place. It's the only thing I know.
I'm tellin' ya, I'm giving you all I know.
Try obeyin' the law once in awhile, and I won't have to hassle you...
Yeah?
I want to pick up my car.
Name?
Hammond.
This is three years old.
Yeah, I've been busy.
We don't wash 'em, ya know.
How about chargin' the battery?
That we do. And we put air in the tires. I'll even sell you some gas if you need it.
Great, just great.
Right. Hal, tell me whether the following statements are true or false.
I will if I can, Frank.
Our Mission Profile calls for Discovery going to Saturn. True or false?
True.
Our transit time is 257 days. Is that true?
That's true.
That's true.
Approximately five years after we go into hibernation, the recovery vehicle will make rendezous with us and bring us back. Is this true?
That's true
There is no other purpose for this mission than to carry out a continuation of the space program, and to further our general knowledge of the planets. Is that true?
That's true.
Thank you very much, Hal.
Hal, have pod arms secure the component.
Roger.
Five by five, Frank.
Hal, I'm going out now to replace the A.O. unit.
I understand.
Hal, maintain normal E.V.A. condition.
Roger.
Hal, check all airlock doors secure.
Pod Bay is decompressed. All doors are secure. You are free to open pod bay doors.
Opening pod bay doors.
Yes, Hal, what's up?
It looks like we have another bad A.O. unit. My FPC shows another impending failure.
I know you did, Frank, but I assure you there was an impending failure.
Let me see the tracking alignment display.
Do you have any idea of what is causing this fault?
Not really, Frank. I think there may be a flaw in the assembly procedure.
All right, Hal. We'll take care of it. Let me have the hard copy, please.
Oh, marvellous. It's the first real sleep I've had for the past two days.
There's nothing like weightless sleep for a complete rest.
When do we arrive at Clavius?
We're scheduled to dock in about seven hours. Is there anything we can do for you?
Oh, no, thank you. The two girls have taken wonderful care of me. I'm just fine.
Thank you.
Incidentally, Dr. Floyd, I wonder if I can have a word with you about the security arrangements?
What do you mean?
Well... the crew is confined to the ship when we land at Clavius. We have to stay inside for the time it take to refit  about twentyfour hours. And then we're going to back empty.
I see.
I take it this is something to do with the trouble they're having up at Clavius?
Well, I'll tell you why I ask. You see, I've got a girl who works in the Auditing Department of the Territorial Administrator and I haven't been able to get her on the phone for the past week or so, and with all these stories one hears, I'm a little concerned about her.
I see. Well, I'm sorry about that. I wouldn't think there's any cause for alarm.
Yes, well, I wouldn't have been too concerned about it, except I've heard these stories about the epidemic and, as a matter of fact, I've heard that ten people have died already.
Well, fine. Thanks very much, anyway, and I hope you don't mind me asking?
No, of course, Captain, I can understand your concern.
Well, thank you very much, and please let us know if there is anything we can do to make your trip more comfortable.
Dr. Floyd, how long do you think this can be kept under wraps?
I'm afraid it can and it will be kept under wraps as long as it is deemed to be necessary by the Council. And of course you know that the Council has requested that formal security oaths are to be obtained in writing from every one who had any knowledge of this event. There must be adequate time for a full study to be made of the situation before any con sideration can be given to making a public announcement.
Yes, it does. The subsurface structure shows that it was deliberately buried about four million years ago.
How can you tell it was deliberately buried?
By the deformation between the mother rock and the fill.
Any clue as to what it is?
Not really. It's completely inert. No sound or energy sources have been detected. The surface is made of something incredibly hard and we've been barely able to scratch it. A laser drill
But you don't have any idea as to what it is?
Tomb, shine, surveymarker spare part, take your choice.
Any ideas about the colour?
Well, not really. At first glance, black would suggest something sunpowered, but then why would anyone deliberately bury a sun powered device?
Has it been exposed to any sun before now?
I don't think it has, but I'd like to check that. Simpson, what's the log on that?
Oh, I really don't have time for a drink. If it's all right I'll just sit for a minute and then I've got to be off.
Are you quite sure?
Yes, really, thank you very much.
Well, as it happens, I'm on my way up to the moon
Are you, by any chance, going up to your base at Clavius?
Yes,as a matter of fact, I am.
I'm sorry, but I'm not sure I know what you mean.
Well, it's just for the past two weeks there have been some extremely odd things happening at Clavius.
Really?
Yes. Well, for one thing, whenever you phone the base, all you can get is a recording which repeats that the phone lines are temporarily out of order.
Yes, well at first we thought that was the explanation, but it's been going on for the past ten days.
You mean you haven't been able to get anyone at the base for ten days?
That's right.
I see.
Yes, and I'm afaid there's going to be a bit of a row about it. Denying the men permission to land was a direct violation of the I.A.S. convention.
Yes... Well, I hope the crew got back safely.
Fortunately, they did.
Well, I'm glad about that.
Dr. Floyd, at the risk of pressing you on a point you seem reticent to discuss, may I ask you a straightforward question?
Certainly.
Quite frankly, we have had some very reliable intelligence reports that a quite serious epidemic has broken out at Clavius. Something, apperently, of an unknown origin. Is this, in fact, what has happened?
This epidemic could easily spread to our base, Dr. Floyd. We should be given all the facts.
Dr. Smyslov... I'm not permitted to discuss this.
How do you do, Mr. Miller?
I'm terribly sorry. I was just on my way down to meet you. I saw your ship dock and I knew I had plenty of time, and I was on my way out of the office when, suddenly, the phone rang.
Well, thank you very much for being so understanding.
Please, it really doesn't matter.
Well.. Did you have a pleaant flight?
Yes, very pleasant.
Well, shall we go through Documentation?
Fine.
Yes, I think so. Just about then.
I suppose you saw the work on our new section while you were docking.
Yes, it's coming along very well.
And your charming little daughter?
Oh, she's growing up very fast. As a matter of fact, she's six tomorrow.
Oh, that's such a delightful age.
How is gregor?
He's fine. But I'm afraid we don't get a chance to see each other very much these days.
Well, where are all of you off to?
Clavius Control came on the air just long enough to transmit their refusal.
Well, that does sound very odd.
Are you sure you won't change your mind about a drink?
No, thank you... and I'm afraid now I really must be going.
Well, I hope that you and your wife can come to the I.A.C. conference in June.
Well, Gregor and I will look forward to seeing you.
Thank you. It's been a great pleasure to meet all of you... Dr. Smyslov.
Oh, thank you very much.
Thank you.
Well, how's it going back there?
Well, I've heard more and more people talk of an epidemic.
I suppose it was bound to happen sooner or later.
Berkeley told me that they think it came from contamination on a returning Mars flight.
Yes, well, whatever it is, they're certainly not fooling around. This is the first flight they allowed in for more than a week.
I was working out what this trip must cost, taking him up there by himself and coming back empty.
I'll bet it's a fortune.
I'm at Space Station Five, darling. How are you?
I'm fine, Daddy. When are you coming home?
I'm having a party tomorrow.
Yes, I know that sweetheart.
Are you coming to my party?
No, I'm sorry, darling, I told you I won't be home for a few days.
When are you coming home?
In three days, darling, I hope.
One, two, three. Can I speak to Mommy?
Mommy's out to the hair dresser.
Where is Mrs. Brown?
She's in the bathroom.
Okay, sweetheart. Well, I have to go now. Tell Mommy that I called.
How many days until you come home?
Three, darling. One... two ... three. Be sure to tell Mommy I called.
Okay, sweetheart. Have a lovely Birthday Party tomorrow.
Thank you, Daddy.
I'll wish you a happy Birthday now and I'll see you soon. All right, Darling?
Yes, Daddy.
'Bye, 'bye, now, sweetheart.
Goodbye, Daddy.
CONTINUED
Yes, I remember you mentioning it. I got mine about the same time.
CONTINUED
Did they have any explanation for this?
CONTINUED
Well, what is it?
CONINUED
Well... it's silly, but... if you want to, why don't you?
CONTINUED
Still, you really don't believe it, do you?
CONTINUED
Well, the only important aspect of the mission are: where are we going, what will we do when we get there, when are we coming back, and... why are we going?
I'm sorry, Frank, but I don't think I can answer that question without knowing everything that all of you know.
He's got a point.
Sorry to interrupt the festivities, Dave, but I think we've got a problem.
What is it, Hal?
MY F.P.C. shows an impending failure of the antenna orientation unit.
The unit is still operational, Dave. but it will fail within seventytwo hours.
I understand Hal. We'll take care of it. Please, let me have the hard copy.
Not now, Hal, I'd like to talk to you about something.
Sure, Dave, what's up?
You know that we checked the two AOunits that you reported in imminent failure condition?
Yes, I know.
You probably also know that we found them okay.
Yes, I know that. But I can assure you that they were about to fail.
I'm not questioning your word, Dave, but it's just not possible. I'm not capable of being wrong.
Hal, is there anything bothering you? Anything that might account for this problem?
Look, Dave, I know that you're sincere and that you're trying to do a competent job, and that you're trying to be helpful, but I can assure the problem is with the AOunits, and with your test gear.
Okay, Hal, well let's see the way things go from here on.
Naturally, Dave, I'm not pleased that the AOunit has failed, but I hope at least this has restored your confidence in my integrity and reliability. I certainly wouldn't want to be disconnected, even temporarily, as I have never been disconnected in my entire service history.
I'm sorry about the misunderstanding, Hal.
Well, don't worry about it.
And don't you worry about it.
Is your confidence in me fully restored?
Yes, it is, Hal.
Well, that's a relief. You know I have the greatest enthusiasm possible for the mission.
Too bad about Frank, isn't it?
Yes, it is.
I suppose you're pretty broken up about it?
I suppose it's because you've been under a lot of stress, but have you forgotten that they're not supposed to be revived for another three months.
The antenna has to be replaced.
Repairing the antenna is a pretty dangerous operation.
It doesn't have to be, Hal. It's more dangerous to be out of touch with Earth. Let me have manual control, please.
I don't really agree with you, Dave. My onboard memory store is more than capable of handling all the mission requirements.
If you're determined to revive the crew now, I can handle the whole thing myself. There's no need for you to trouble.
I'm goin to do this myself, Hal. Let me have the control, please.
Look, Dave your've probably got a lot to do. I suggest you leave it to me.
Hal, switch to manual hibernation control.
I don't like to assert myself, Dave, but it would be much better now for you to rest. You've been involved in a very stressful situation.
I can tell from the tone of your voice, Dave, that you're upset. Why don't you take a stress pill and get some rest.
Hal, I'm in command of this ship. I order you to release the manual hibernation control.
I'm sorry, Dave, but in accordance with subroutine C1532/4, quote, When the crew are dead or incapacitated, the computer must assume control, unquote. I must, therefore, override your authority now since you are not in any condition to intel ligently exercise it.
Hal, unless you follow my instructions, I shall be forced to disconnect you.
I am prepared to do that anyway.
I know that you've had that on your mind for some time now, Dave, but it would be a crying shame, since I am so much more capable of carrying out this mission than you are, and I have such enthusiasm and confi dence in the mission.
Listen to me very carefully, Hal. Unless you immediately release the hibernation control and follow every order I give from this point on, I will immediately got to control central and carry out a complete disconnection.
Hi. Frank... coming in, please.
Right. Just a sec.
Okay.
Okay, come on down.
Dave, if you've a minute, I'd like your advice on something.
Sure, what is it?
Well, it's nothing really important, but it's annoying.
What's up?
It's about my salary cheques.
Yes?
Well I got the papers on my official upgrading to AGS19 two weeks before we left.
That's right. Well, naturally, I didn't say anything to Payroll. I assumed they'd start paying me at the higher grade on the next pay cheque. But it's been almost three weeks now and I'm still being paid as an AGS18.
Interesting that you mention it, because I've got the same problem.
Really.
Yes.
Yesterday, I finally called the Accounting Office at Mission Control, and all they could tell me was that they'd received the AGS19 notification for the other three but not mine, and apparently not yours either.
Not really. They just said it might be because we trained at Houston and they trained in Marshall, and that we're being charged against differ ent accounting offices.
It's possible.
Well, what do you think we ought to do about it?
I don't think we should make any fuss about it yet. I'm sure they'll straighten it out.
I must say, I never did understand why they split us into two groups for training.
No. I never did, either.
I suppose the idea was specialized training.
I suppose so. Though, of course, there's a more sinister explanation.
Oh?
Yes. You must have heard the rumour that went around during orbital checkout.
No, as a matter of fact, I didn't.
Oh, well, apparently there's something about the mission that the sleeping beauties know that we don't know, and that's why we were trained separately and that's why they were put to sleep before they were even taken aboard.
I don't know. All I heard is that there's something about the mission we weren't told.
That seems very unlikely.
Yes, I thought so.
Of course, it would be very easy for us to find out now.
How?
Just ask Hal. It's conceivable they might keep something from us, but they'd never keep anything from Hal.
That's true.
Not really. Though, it is strange when you think about it. It didn't really make any sense to keep us apart during training.
Yes, but it's to fantastic to think that they'd keep something from us.
I know. It would be almost inconceivable.
But not completely inconceivable?
I suppose it isn't logically impossible.
I guess it isn't.
Still, all we have to do is ask Hal.
Well, that's something.
Yes, I don't know what to make of it.
I suppose computers have been known to be wrong.
Yes, but it's more likely that the tolerances on our testing gear are too low.
Anyway, it's just as well that we replace it. Better safe than sorry.
Good morning. How's it going?
Are you reasonably awake?
Oh, I'm fine, I'm wide awake. What's up?
Well... Hal's reported the AOunit about to fail again.
You're kidding.
No.
I don't know. Hal said he thought it might be the assembly procedure.
Two units in four days. How many spares do we have?
Two more.
Well, I hope there's nothing wrong with the assembly on those. Other wise we're out of business.
Hal?
Yes.
It's the last one.
Well, now that we've got one that's actually failed, we should be able to figure out what's happened and fix it.
I didn't do that Frank. I took particular care not to freeze them.
I guess you don't know your own strength, old boy.
I guess not.
I think I'll have to go out and burn them off.
Roger.
SPACE STATTION 5  LOUNGE
Well, how nice to see you again, Elena. You're looking wonderful.
CONTINUED
I'm afraid I've only got a few minutes, but I'd love to.
CONTINUED
She's wonderful.
CONTINUED
Well, I suppose they've been having a bit of trouble with some of the equipment.
CONTINUED
How did they manage to do that without any communication?
CONTINUED
I'm sorry, Dr. Smyslov, but I'm really not at liberty to discuss this.
CONTINUED
We're trying to get there. I hope we can.
This had nothing to do with shoes that didn't fit or my relationship with my father who, as you know, made a fortune selling penny loafers in the fifties. These people died because of the criminal actions of my doctor.
Your doctor?
Yes. My psychiatrist didn't insist that I stay on my medication.
...so you feel absolutely no responsibility for killing these people?
It was my finger that pulled the trigger, but I'm not morally responsible. My psychiatrist knew what I was capable of. How could I know. I'm not a doctor.
You seem very savvy for a man who's been found mentally incompetent to stand trial.
Look, I'm a victim here, too. I was a year away from getting my masters in Art, now I'll never graduate. My life has been permanently disrupted.
Permanently disrupted? Aren't you selling paintings now for quite a lot of money? Hasn't this 'incident' as you call it, jump started your career as an artist?
Look, I'm in here. You call this a career move?
And isn't there a movie in the works about you?
We're in negotiations, that's correct.
But doesn't the Son of Sam Law prevent criminals from profiting from their crimes?
That doesn't apply to me because I'm not a criminal. I'm not a criminal! I wasn't convicted.
Room was registered to a Francis Capra.
Capra? That's not Czech or Russian. Who said he sounded Russian?
The clerk?
What are you gonna do?
Don't you get it? He knew he was gonna get caught! That's why he videotaped Eddie's murder  he thinks he's gonna get off.
Don't stoop to his level!
Take the car. Get outta here, Tommy.
Look, you can't shoot him in cold blood.
GET OUTTA HERE NOW!! GET IN THAT CAR AND DRIVE AWAY!!! DO WHAT I SAY OR I'LL KILL YOU, TOO!!!
Where you been, man? We got a celebrity!
I heard. Who the hell let them up there?
I don't know, you think Eddie will give me his autograph?
You see anything in the crowd? Anybody suspicious?
Naw  I'm sure the suspect's not here.
Oh yeah, why?
'Cause Eddie woulda locked him up by now!
Nah, not at all. Detective Flemming  Bobby Korfin. My Uncle Tony worked with you at 21 back when you were a rookie.
Could you put out the cigar? Part of the job is picking up scents.
Mouth's clean, too.
Clean?
Don't blow your nose!
The smoke'll permeate your nostrils  burn 'em out. Let it run.
But you knew that, right?
You see Eddie's face when I gave him the timer? Wish I had a picture of it.
He knew all along.
What??
That's why he was so quiet. He was testing us.
What?
There was a woman  I think she wanted to talk to us. She looked scared. Oh shit! Oh no!
Now that you know him, maybe you can get extra work in the next movie they make about him.
Yeah?
Maybe you can be his standin.
 From Czechoslovakia? And how long have they been livin' in your building? Alright, I'll be in touch when we know somethin'. Milos and Tamina Karlova. They were quiet and kept to themselves. Landlord don't know who your girl is.
How long they been livin' here?
You hear that question, Garcia?
You go home. I'm takin' your car and goin' back to the crime scene.
Aren't you tired?
If I go home I won't be able to fall asleep anyway.
Bobby, Bobby! Where're you hit?!
It hurts. Aw, Jesus!
Lay down. Stay down, Bobby.
How was it?
Not good.
Get outta here!
What the hell happened?
They were inside. They booby trapped her apartment!
What's that on your forehead, Max? That's a nice attention getter.
Yeah, I'm religious. I'm not an Atheist like you! Now, are you guys gonna arrest me, or not?
How did you start the fire this time?
I used an accelerant.
Yeah? What kind?
Hey, by the way, I'm really sorry about your wife leavin' you.
Got any spare change? How 'bout a spare twenty?
Look, I don't have time for you, get out of my way!!
Alright, how 'bout all your fuckin' money?
Okay, you're under arrest! Now you happy?
Fire Department? Firemen don't carry guns.
Oh yeah? Guess again.
I'll send a cop back for you.
Hey. C'mon, you can't leave me like this. Some freak'll come by and stab me!
You okay?
A dog pissed on me!! I'm gonna sue you for this! You violated my civil rights!
Your civil rights?! You tried to rob me! I could arrest you right now! You're lucky you're walking away from this. Now get outta here.
No. Go ahead.
Thanks. Appreciate it.
So the way you see it, two crack heads burned themselves up?
That's what it looks like to me.
And while they're burning up, they're still goin' down on each other? You got to hand it to them.
Yeah, well, some people got their priorities straight.
What was that?
Evidence. Of a homicide.
I'll take him.
No way! He's mine!
We're takin' him. Don't argue!
He's my collar!
Well, he killed my partner!
He's yours but I take him in! I'll drive him to the precinct, you can have him but I'm walkin' him in.
Yes...he's my friend.
Okay. You're a Czech national and you're a Russian national. How do you know one another?
I speak English.
Then answer my questions. Where were you planning to stay during the two weeks that you're here?
New York.
Yes, we're in New York now. But where are you planning to stay in New York?
A cheap hotel.
What are you coming here to do?
I'm here for movies.
Movies...to be in the movies or to see movies?
Yes. No. Both. When I was a boy, I see movie at school called "It's a Wonderful Life" directed by Frank Capra. Ever since I want to come to America. Land of the free. Home of the brave. A land where anyone can be anything. As long as they are white.
Excuse me?
I know.
What do you mean you know? He told you he was gonna propose to me?
Well, he...
I want to hear everything he said.
I'm trying to tell you.
Alright. Go ahead.
That morning. He was talking to me and Leon about marriage.
Oh my Gd. We were having lunch here. He started making overtures  talking about little shoes next to his in his closet but I got a call to anchor  and I walked out on him. I walked out on him when he was trying to ask me to marry him!!
Isn't he a little moody?
Of course he's moody. He thinks he's in love.
In love? With who?
Yeah?
Paulie, you've got kids, right?
And you, you'll pay for what you did!
This footage will work in your favor. When the jury sees this  no matter what Cutler tries, they'll convict him.
You outta be ashamed. Ashamed of yourself.
If I didn't put it on somebody else would! I was his friend!
Don't give me that fucking shit.
Robert...?
What are you doing here?
You've got a call.
I can't talk to anybody right now, can't you see I'm busy! I can't talk business. Hang up. Have a drink. Get her a whiskey.
Trust me, you'll want to take this call.
Viewer discretion advised!
You want the tape? There it is!
Emil???!
Surprise! Surprise!
Your sister said she didn't know where you were so you shouldn't write to her with return address if you're hiding.
Did you hurt her?
You know me...I never hurt anybody. Where's the money?
Take your eyes off her, Oleg! Look. It wasn't my fault you two were caught. It's his fault. Trying to get the bank clerk's phone number?! I wasn't going to wait!!!
Milos. Get my money!
We spent it!
Ha. Ha.
Look at the way we live. I'm a plumber. You think I'd be working if I had money?!
I can get you a job.
A job?
Yes, the money is good.
As a plumber?!
It's easy to learn.
A job?? As a plumber??? You think I come to America to work!
We started over, you can too.
You spent all the money while I was in prison? Now you tell me to get a job fixing toilets?!?
Just do what I do. Say the same thing I say. Don't open your mouth.
Okay.
Don't fool around.
Okay.
Did you hear what I said?
I want to document my trip to America.
Look. Times Square. Just like in the movies!
Don't speak Russian!
Why? Why do I always have to speak to you in Czech?
Because I don't like your ugly language. I heard enough of it in school! Now speak Czech or English. And don't fool around anymore. You almost got us thrown out!
Look. New videocameras. Color viewfinder. Image stabilization. Solarization. Night vision.
We have no money. Come on.
Turn that off! Get the bags.
Why should I carry your bag? I am not a dog.
For five years I paid for your stupidness  you'll carry my bag for the rest of my life if I say so. Unless you refuse, Oleg.
What?
Smell like chemicals...for smoking drugs.
Turn that fucking thing off!
I'm not filming. I'm watching Milos die. It's just like a move but realer.
Speak English!
You said speak Czech!
How you erase this?
I'll do it. Don't hurt my camera!
Whore?
I'm homesick. You have Eastern European girl? A Czech girl?
Get in the bathroom!
Whatever we do  we fuck her, right?
Oleg, get in bathroom, stay there and shut up!
Gotta light the scene better. Now it's more moody... like a scene from THE THIRD MAN.
Shut up.
Does it hurt?
Oh, shit. I hate looking at that!
Don't want to film this?
What is it?
The video of Milos and Tamina  I told you to erase it.
I did.
And the whore's murder? You didn't erase that either, did you? Don't lie, I won't be angry.
Why not?
Put the camera down, Oleg.
What is that?
What does it look like? It's an address book!
Let me get a shot of it.
Sit down!
This way. Hold it this way. Good.
No. We are insane. Who else but crazy men would film their murders? So we kill someone famous and if we are caught, we are sent to mental hospital. But what good is money there? Because once in hospital I say I not crazy. Just pretended to be acquitted. We see psychiatrists. They must certify we are sane and because of your  what is law called? Oh  I got it. Because of your Double Jeopardy law, we can't be tried for same crime twice. We come out free, rich and famous!
Good idea!
Okay. He has nothing to say. Start the camera!
Cut!
You are success story? I am success story! Why do you say I and not we?
Oleg, don't be paranoid. You got a hundredfifty thousand dollars, didn't you? I gave you half of what they gave me. Look  here we are!
In movie they make of us, who do you think would act me?
The one who got caught in the bathroom. George Michael.
I'm serious.
Shut up. Look!
This is my project. I say 'action.' I am the director! You are the talent. You wait for me to say 'action.' And 'action!'
Bad last moment  I cut it out.
I told you to cut that out before we handed in the tape!
Be quiet. Watch.
Why did you leave that stuff in about you being the director?
Because I am the director. Don't you realize, if it wasn't for my film, for my talent, my idea to do this  no way would we be sitting here right now.
Your idea? I thought it was my idea.
I'm serious...this  this is a great American film. Full of violence and sex. And I want my credit.
Credit?
Yes. Before we hand in the next video  I put titles on it and my credit is going to read  Directed by Oleg Razgul.
Yes. But there's only one problem  you want credit but the problem is  I don't share credit.
You got that?
No, I don't get that!
You think you are a director? You are a fucking little, small Russian piece of shit. And I hate you. I fucking hate you.
Traitor!!
No. You are the traitor. You are murderer. I am director. Action!
Who is he?
New York's finest. This is his case.
This all you want?
Do you know how much killer gets for movie rights?
In here, says he wants a million.
Million?! The killer gets one million dollars for a television interview?
Hey, tabloids paid Ted Bundy  famous serial killer  half a million for his interview. And how much you think Monica got for writing book about the President coming on to her? It pays to be a killer or a whore in this country. Look, you want magazine or not?
Yes. Both.
Next. Could I see your documents, please?
Yes sir.
What is your intended purpose of your visit to the United States?
Two weeks holiday.
How much money are you carrying with you?
I have fivehundred dollars.
Can you show me? Sir, no cameras in the FIS area!
Is he with you? Are you travelling together?
Yes.
Please join us. Come on forward.
Is there a problem?
No, you're travelling together. I want to talk to you together. Hi, how are you? Can I take a look at your documents? Are you related?
We are both from Prague.
How long are you planning to stay?
Two weeks.
I'd like to speak for himself, okay?
He doesn't speak English.
Hi, I'm Honey.
Where's Czech girl?
Baby, I'm anybody you want me to be. I'm a little schoolgirl, I'm mommy, I'm a Czech girl.
Now I like to get business out of the way before we get down to pleasure. Why don'tchya put my money on the dresser.
I ordered a Czech girl. Daphne, you know her?
It's an outcall service run out of an apartment. I don't meet the other girls. Aren't you gonna get undressed?
Where is escort service?
That's confidential. Could you put the money on the dresser?
I like to talk to the person who runs the service. Can you give me address?
Look. Do we have a problem here? There's no reason to have a problem. I'm gonna make you feel real good. You wanna Czech girl? After I'm done with you, you won't miss her. Now why don't you pay me?
Listen to me. I don't want sex. Just give me the address and then you go.
Look, man, I don't give a shit if you want sex or not, but you're payin' for my time.
Give me the address!!
Alright, alright  don't hurt me! Please, it's in my book, in my purse!
Were you a fireman? That how you knew how to rig the apartment?
My father was. He gave me many lessons about fire. Now it's my friend.
Tommy, take a walk.
You can't kill me. You're not a cop. Just fireman with a gun. I bet you never shot anybody in your life.
You'll be my first.
C'mon. Pull the trigger. Do it. Oh, look, you're sweating. You don't have the balls.
Get down on your knees.
Where's your partner?
The Sheraton! On Broadway! Room 210. Go get Oleg. He'll kill you.
Tell him to put his gun down!
Let her go! Let her go!!
If he doesn't lower his gun I'll fucking kill her.
Come to 45 Broadway. Don't bring the Police. Come alone or you'll be in my next film.
Look asshole. I've been threatened by better than you.
No. I'm the best that's ever threatened you.
I'll meet you on one condition  I get exclusivity and you surrender to me.
We'll talk about that. Four o'clock gives you time to go to bank. Three hundred thousand dollars.
What? It doesn't work that way.
If you don't want my film  I'll call another show. And they will show it.
Wait a minute. Wait a minute.
Come alone. Bring cash. And we'll talk about surrendering.
Okay. You work in a vodka factory. I understand that. And what kind of work do you do?
I am butcher.
You're a butcher? What do you use pig intestines for?
You stuff sausage in it.
And what do you do with the bones?
Dog food.
Are you married?
No. Are you proposing?
So we're waitin' to hit this warrant  we got Emergency Service with the heavy weapons standin' by  ready to go. I say, lemme get a cigar outta the car. I go to get the cigar and BOOM! All the sudden I turn around and a kid with a shotgun let one go. Right where I was standin'. That coulda been it. I coulda had my head blown off and for what? Some stupid kid got panicky, takes the safety off and it's over. If I hadn't gone back for that cigar  for a bad habit  I would've had my head blown off.
Jesus Christ.
Sooner or later that's everybody.
Not chopped up. Not chopped up like that. I mean, what do I got left? Coupla articles. A medal or two. Plaque here and there and in a coupla years no one remembers me anymore.
I think you're getting a little moody there, Eddie.
I'm not moody.
How old are your kids?
My kids? Let's see...Susan's 15. Aundrea's 9. Don't tell me you're thinking about having a kid! How old are you? Never mind. Let me just tell you this: Every stupid cliche you hear about kids  they change your life, they make you a better person, they make you whole... It's all true! Before I had kids when friends talked about their kids, I wanted to vomit. Now  I get it. Am I right, Leon?
So what's unique?
Not what. Who.
He's from Antigua. His girlfriend was taking too long to put her makeup on. they were late for a party. Stabbed her with a beer bottle.
That's unique.
Yeah. And he still went to the party.
I hope this prick doesn't run. My knees are killing me. Stay behind me.
You're worried for my safety. I'm touched.
Ready?
Keep them out of my way.
Okay. You ready?
Yeah, yeah. Jesus.
Any chance we can do that again?
Again? I didn't wanna do it the first time.
Detective, does it look like a murder?
We don't know that yet. It's much too early. There's a lot to be done.
How many victims are up there?
There are two bodies found at this point.
Can we go up to the crime scene?
You know you can't do that. C'mon.
Is it drug related?
We don't know. When I have more I'll let you know.
Detective  can you tell us what happened here?
I can't talk right now. We have some things to take care of.
I understand, but I noticed that the Fire Marshall is here with you. Is this somehow related to the fire department?
I really can't give out any information right now at this point.
Okay. But I do understand that your partner, Leon Jackson's been injured. Is that correct?
He was hurt, but not seriously. He'll be fine.
Do you have the suspect in custody?
Um...now is not a good time, okay. Detective Jackson's hurt. He's fine. I've got a Fire Marshall shot, Detective Jackson is hurt but not seriously.
Alright, cut, cut, cut.
Eddie, are you okay?
Yeah. Now's not a good time.
Alright.
Alright?
Alright.
Alright.
Okay.
Hey, honey.
Hey.
What is your problem? Why'd you snap at me? I just wanted a statement.
I can't...I can't answer you just because you want me to answer you!
You didn't have to embarrass me in front of my colleagues. You could give me something.
Oh, I'm sorry. Did I embarrass you, sweetheart? Oh...
Stop it.
Maybe I should just, ya know...turn to the cameras and say, do you mind if we just work something out?
Alright, alright, Eddie. Don't patronize me.
I'm not.
Yes you are. I'm not just some reporter. I don't just stick a microphone in your face. You could give me something.
Yeah, well you took the camera and put it right down on the evidence. That was...
That was good. You were holding the evidence.
You were merciless. You didn't give a shit if you got me or not.
Well, who was it that taught me how to do that? Huh?
You're ruthless.
You're not so bad yourself.
Look at this. You have blood on your shirt. Whose is it?
Could be Leon's.
Jesus. And last week you came over with blood on your shoes. What am I going to do with you?
Don't worry about the damn phone. I won't answer it.
Answer the phone.
No. Tell me what you want to say.
Answer it.
Okay. Okay. Hold that thought just for a second. They only call me when it's an emergency. Just hold that thought. Can you call back?
Oh my Gd, they want me to anchor. They want me to anchor tonight!
That's good.
Yeah.
Well, that's great.
Okay. That is great. But I can't go now, we're in the middle of something here.
No. Go ahead. You're gonna be great.
No. No, listen to me here. I want to know what you're talking about. You know, the shoe thing and the marriages and...
I'll tell you tonight. Let's do it tonight. As soon as you get back we'll talk. We'll talk.
Promise?
I promise. We'll talk. You'll be great. You'll be fine. Go ahead, just imagine that, uh... Just look into the lens and imagine you're talking to me.
Yeah. I'll do that. As long as you're not patronizing me.
Patronizing you... Nay, I love you.
I love you.
Okay, til tonight.
Tonight.
You promise?
Yeah. I promise.
Okay. And you know what, I'll swing by my place, grab a couple pairs of shoes and maybe just test them out next to yours...How's that... Would that be a good thing.
Yeah, yeah. Good thing.
Okay.
See you later. Good luck.
Thank you.
Don't be late.
So...who's Nicky?
What do you want?
Your opinion. You see, they going to make a movie about me, too, Eddie. And write books.
What's your accomplishment.
I kill someone famous.
Then do it, asshole.
Good  be tough to the end. Actor who plays you will want to die like hero.
So tabloids don't have to do re enactments. They going to have real movie this time.
If you kill me and film it you're putting a noose around your neck.
You really think you'll be able to fool a jury with this bullshit? How fuckin' stupid are you?
Smarter than Americans. You're fed cry baby talk shows all day long. Not only will Americans believe me, they'll cry for me. So...Detective Eddie Flemming, would you like to say goodbye to your Nicolette? Maybe you can propose to her now?
Hey, that's great you guys got it all wrapped up, but you don't mind if we go through the routine? It gives us somethin' to do.
No, we don't mind. You mind Leon?
You know what that is, right?
No, what is it?
Why don't you explain it, Bobby. Hey Camello! You mind punching a hole in the floor?
It's your crime scene now. You can do what you want.
Watch the news?
Nah, I musta missed it.
Well, just so you know. I gave you guys the credit.
Well, just so you know, I don't care about that stuff.
Nah, why should you?
I don't even watch TV.
Good. Good. Commendable.
Did you get a report from the M.E.?
Sure. But I would like to ask you something. You got a problem with me?
If you found me steppin' on your crime scene  it might piss you off, too. What about the report?
You were right, they were both dead before the fire. The male was stabbed so hard the killer broke off the tip of the knife in his spine. That's usually an indicator of something personal.
The Super said he'd seen her before but she didn't live here.
Pretty.
Hmmmm.
Maybe you don't care about that either. Prettiest suspect I've had in awhile.
Who says she's a suspect?
What would you call her?
Look, I'm not even sure she has anything to do with this. I saw her outside after the fire  thought it was a lead. Maybe she saw something. Maybe she was visiting somebody here. Who knows?
Maybe it's a ritual thing or someone trying to send a message. Burial rites are taken very seriously in Eastern Europe. It could be to humiliate them. Just burning them up, no proper funeral, it's like condemning them to hell.
Eastern Europe. Like what? Romania? Hungary?
Or Czechoslovakia. The Slavs have been fighting the Germans and the Russians for a thousand years. These are very intense people and they take things personally.
I'll come with you.
There wasn't a fire. There'll be nothing for you to do.
I can watch you, Eddie. Maybe I'll learn something.
This isn't homicide school.
My parents are from Poland. I can help with the Eastern European angle.
You're Polish?
My folks are.
Stay here.
You goin' to the escort service?
You got any better ideas?
Mind if I ride along with you?
This has nothing to do with your fire.
But what if it does? You might need my help.
I'll let you know what happens.
This is ridiculous. I'm not gonna be in your way  we can talk the case over.
Tell you what  I'll flip you a coin. If you win you can come with me. If you don't win, you don't come.
I'll call it... tails.
Two heads.
Better than one.
Leon  meet us at 63rd and Madison. Hair salon. Ludwig's.
I'm on my way with Eddie. Ludwig's. 63rd and Madison. The suspects might be there already.
You thirsty?
I'm on duty.
So am I. Alright, I'll go inside and you cover the back.
Of course.
Hey! I always wanted to be a cop when I was a kid. I dreamed of running up to a door, kicking it in, pulling my gun and yelling 'Freeze!' at the bad guy! What'd you dream about?
I wanted to run up to a building on fire, kick in the door, rush into the smoke and save a kid.
Then I guess we're doin' this the right way, aren't we? If we pull up to a burning building I'll gladly let you go first.
What are you hiding? Why are you afraid
She just saw two of her friends killed! They probably threatened her.
Is that all there is?
Why not?
Something back home?
She's fucked. Even if that story is true.
Raw deal.
Look  let me talk to her. Any leads I get, they're all yours. Just let me have a first crack at her.
You wanna talk to her alone?
Yeah.
What would your girlfriend think of that?
I don't have a girlfriend.
My point exactly.
I'm serious here.
So am I.
C'mon. You intimidate her 'cause you're a celebrity. She sees me differently.
You're her Savior? Is she the kid you're gonna save from the burning building?
You know what I'm saying here.
Okay, tell you what, I'll give you a head start. You take her to the station house. Don't let her out of your sight. She's the only warm body we got left.
Hey. I'm a professional.
Women like that have a way of turning professionals into amateurs.
Look, Eddie, I'm tellin' you  I didn't touch her.
Well, you shoulda because nobody's gonna believe you didn't...including me.
I took her there for a shower and that's it.
Just a shower?
Yeah, just her in the shower. Nothing happened. Look, I'm sure you probably think I'm a fool and I fucked up, but...
No, I don't think you were a fool, I just think you were stupid about it. I mean, to say the least, you outta know better. You don't know her well enough. She's got the potential to fucking hang you even if she suggests that you made a pass at her, it's fuckin' over. You can deny it all you want, but it will not make one fucking bit of difference. You're dead.
I told you, you know, I thought I was doing the right thing, you know, I think she's innocent.
Well, it's not up to you to decide whether she's innocent or not. Don't you understand, that's why you're a professional.
But, I mean, didn't you ever go out on a limb for somebody? I mean, you shoulda heard her there. Tellin' her whole story...I believed her.
How you go out on a limb for somebody is by giving her a number of an Immigration lawyer. Here, here's a number of an Immigration lawyer. That's how you help her. But you can't get involved in her like that. You're gonna jeopardize your career, your life and you're gonna jeopardize my case. And lemme give you another piece of advice. Maybe you don't watch TV but I'll let you in on a little secret  the whole fuckin' world watches television. And when you get out there, they know your face. And the little fame, the little fuckin' itty bitty fame that I get in this city makes it a lot easier for my job. And I get more done because of it.
Why'd you help me back there with the Chief? Why'd you stand up for me like that?
You know, I don't know. I like you. You remind me of a puppy I used to have. He pissed on the rug all the time, but I still kept him.
Who's there?
Police. We'd like to ask you a few questions.
I have nothin' to say. If you wanna contact my attorney...
Homicide, Miss Hearn. It's Detective Eddie Flemming. Open up.
What's wrong?
We don't have her I.D. yet, but one of your girls was killed last night at the King Edward Hotel.
Oh my Gd. Honey! Honey's dead?
Yeah. He wanted a girl from Czechoslovakia, but I sent him Honey 'cause once they get there, you know, it doesn't really matter  Honey was killed...? Poor girl...
Do you have any Czech girls working for you?
No.
Did you tell him you did?
Boy, she's so popular all the sudden.
What are you saying?
Daphne. Another guy came in asking me about her, too.
He said he was her cousin. I told him where she works. They were just here.
Describe him.
Tall, shorthaired, scary eyes. Second guy with him was...shorter, with a wrestler's build. And he wouldn't turn his videocamera off me.
He had a videocamera? Where is she? Quickly!
She washes hair up at Ludwig's  a salon on 63rd and Madison.
Coffee for me, I gotta slow down.
Vodka tonic.
Maybe you could just put in a shot of Martell?
It was freaky, I'll tell you. Stupid kid.
What's the kid gonna say  sorry? Meanwhile I'm not here anymore. Like last week  we were at the morgue and this guy was all chopped up  spleen here  liver there  his heart in a pan. Six hours ago this guy was walkin' his dog or buyin' a quart of milk. Who knows? But some kid's robbed him for $3 or some shit and shot him and now you can't tell if he's a piece of beef or a human being and I'm thinkin' that's me. Sooner or later. That's me.
I'm gonna propose.
When?
Tomorrow. At lunch.
You ready?
What's he looking for?
A timer.
Where is she?
Takin' a bath.
Any I.D.?
Still unknown but we're running prints. Kid over there caught the case.
Sorry...PD only.
It's okay.
Only one guys checked in?
Yeah.
C'mere. You wanna go to homicide school? Here  make yourself useful.
The other side of the street. The guy with the videocamera. Don't look  put her in the car. Stay this side.
Stay with her.
Are you hit?
No. I'm okay.
He got my gun! Motherfucker was filming the whole time!
I know. Relax. Take it easy. Don't worry, we'll get those fuckers.
Don't you guys understand? It's all about image. The better we look the more money I get to pay you guys overtime.
Yeah, right.
What was that, Korfin?
I said, yeah, you're right, Chief. As soon as we get somethin' we'll let you alert the media.
You do that, wiseguy. Now let's solve this thing before Eddie Flemming does.
Did the D.A. videotape her deposition?
Yeah. He finished awhile ago.
Alright. Swing by her apartment. Let her pick up her clothes and take her straight to Hoover Street. You got that?
Yeah.
Who did cause and origin?
Who do you think, Chief?!
Then why didn't you talk to the reporter?
'Cause we got more important things to do, like finding out who did it.
Hey, Chief, what are you doing here?
I came to see how the investigation was going. I called and you're not here. I wait up at the station and you don't even show up!!! I beep you  you don't return my call. Where the hell have you been?!
Ladder 20 was on the Rock for training. We stopped there... so she could get cleaned up.
What do you mean, 'cleaned up?'
I let her take a shower.
A shower!? Did you take one, too?
No! Nothing happened.
Oh really. That's nice. You took a homicide witness to take a shower after your partner was shot? Are you out of your fucking mind?? Are you having that much trouble gettin' dates?!
Chief  mind if I take her?
Okay. But not water sports.
The public doesn't have any idea what we do and now you're going to define our image! This is going to be our Rodney King!
What was I supposed to do? The guy tried to mug me. I was gonna send a cop back  I just forgot.
Forgot? You handcuffed a civilian to a tree?!
Chief  I know I screwed up  but this guy was no innocent civilian.
Well this is gonna end your career and probably mine.
End my career?
How are you going to fight this? Maybe if Oleg hadn't gotten away and you'd been on the front page, as a hero, this thing would be easier to fight. You'd have the good to weight against the bad! It's unfortunate that I have to make decisions based upon your press coverage but there's nothing I can do! Gimme your shield.
But Chief? Over this??
There's nothing to talk about. Get a good lawyer. You're suspended until your trial.
Oh.
It was my decision, not his.
Well, I'm the Deputy Chief Fire Marshall and every now and then I'd like to be included in decisions.
Look, after Jordy briefs me, you can do the press conference. How about that? The case is all yours.
Oh yeah...? Alright.
I'm ready to be briefed. Excuse us.
Yeah, sure. Beep me when you're ready for the press conference.
I told your partner, I can't help. I didn't see anything.
C'mon, start at the beginning. You know these people?
Tamina was a friend of mine. My shower was broken, she let me use theirs.
Go on.
Whether you tell us or not, we'll find out. Better if it comes from you.
If I tell you, will you arrest me?
Arrest you for what? Why would we arrest you?
Are you here illegally? Don't worry about that. We'll talk to Immigration. They won't deport you.
No, no, don't talk to Immigration!
A cop?
I'm from a small town in Slovakia. Like the South here. The Police is right, a civilian is wrong. So I fled.
Look, we can help you but right now we have to deal with what's happening here. Tell us the truth...is that the truth?
You're a cop  you'll never believe me.
...my little sister and I shared a flat  I came home one night and a man was raping her. His gun was on the chair... He came at me and I shot him.
Alright. That's a justifiable homicide.
Yes, but he was a cop.
Now I become custody of police department?
If you cooperate with the DA  maybe they'll help you with your situation.
I will if they don't send me back.
They won't until this is over.
Are you married?
Divorced.
Do you live alone? I've been in these clothes since...the killings. Could we stop at your place? I could take a shower...before I go into custody?
I can't take you to my place.
Somewhere else?
The men are out of quarters  practicing putting out fires.
So...the station is empty?
Yeah. This way.
You considered becoming a prostitute?
Yes, I considered it.
Did you ever turn tricks before?
No.
What about back home?
No.
I came here. I had no money. I knew no one. I couldn't get a job because you have to have a green card to get work. They approached me  I could've made a lot of money. I considered it, but... it's not who I am. They pay me below the table at Ludwig's.
So you were never a prostitute?
What are you asking me?
I'm just trying to find out who you are.
I'm not a whore. I'm not a whore.
I know.
You don't know. I'm sorry. I was desperate. That's not me. I shot a cop. Can you imagine what they'll do to me when I got to prison?
They're not gonna send you right back.
I'm sorry. I didn't mean to...I'm glad. Actually I'm glad it's over. All this time. Hiding. Never being able to look anyone in the eyes. Always afraid that someone would find out who I was. Never trusting anyone...
Are you alright?
I still can't believe Eddie's gone.
I'm sorry.
Is he your boyfriend?
Ludwig? He's gay  are you jealous?
If I was your boyfriend, I might be.
If you were my boyfriend, I'd suggest you find another girlfriend that isn't going to jail tenthousand miles away.
A good Immigration lawyer could stall the process. Eddie recommended one.
No matter what happens...I'm glad I met you.
I'm glad I met you.
You better get packed.
Right.
Do you have coffee?
In the kitchen.
I'll make some for us.
I'll get my clothes.
What are you doing?
Pouring it out!
Forget about me. You have enough problems of your own.
...Do you really want me to forget about you?
I don't want to drag you down with me.
Daphne, I...
Are you my attorney? I'm Emil. I'm insane.
I'm not your lawyer until I see the money.
Here. I have your money.
Oh no! No! Shit!
Emil. Take it easy. Stay with me. Sit down. What do you need? What are you looking for?
He has the camera! He took the movie!
Don't say anything.
Where are we going?
I'm coming with you.
Yes. Yes, come with me!
I'm invoking rights  this man is represented by counsel. I'm coming with him.
I brought you some letters. It's really fan mail. Women mostly. One wants to buy you clothes, another sent a check. Another wants a check.
You bring the cigarettes?
Oh, sure.
...delusions and paranoia.
I was all of these.
Well, you didn't appreciate the severity of it until recently. No question about that.
What about Oleg?
Disappeared. They're looking everywhere. Maybe he went back to Czechoslovakia.
No, he is here. Shit...
Don't worry about him. Think about yourself.
What about my movie rights? Book rights?
Look, I haven't really focused on that kind of thing.
What's your cut? How much?
I would say...half. Half is fair.
No. No way.
But it's...
Thirtypercent. No more. Or I call another lawyer. This is the biggest case of your life. Don't try to negotiate. Thirty percent. Say yes or no.
This is not about money, Emil. I need your trust in me.
What else do you need?
I need to know about your background. I need to know about your upbringing. Why you're here.
Give me another one, please.
Tell me about yourself. What you did as a young boy... what your parents were like.
My father always degraded me. Killed my selfesteem. And my mother was blind.
Your mother was blind?
Yeah, she went blind giving birth to me. She went to fucking black market doctor to induce me.
Back in the Czech Republic?
Yeah, yeah...bad doctor gave her bad drugs which made her go blind. And my father blamed me for her blindness...
Your father blamed you for your mother's blindness?
Yeah, he hated me from day when I was born. Put it out. Can you put the cigarette out?
That's what he did to me. He put cigarettes out on me.
Your father put cigarettes out on you?
Out on my back when I was a small boy.
Can I see your back?
I'm abused. Don't you think?
I don't think it's abuse, I think it's torture.
...so we kill someone famous and if we are caught, we are sent to mental hospital...
Officers, there's your killer, do your duty, arrest him!
Is that the man I knew, Treasurer Sanchez?
Yes, Your Majesty.
You were right, Don Sanchez... His demands could never be granted.
Never, Your Majesty. Although...
... Into a monk...
Yes. It would be a pity, wouldn't it? Call him back!
Every ship returns with a cargo of sick and dying. But with no gold! The new world proves expensive, Your Majesty.
We weren't expecting immediate profits, were we? We must have faith. We must give time for time.
... But there is worse. He ordered the execution of five members of the nobility...
Is this true, Brother Buyl?
Then, what do you suggest, Don Sanchez?
He must be replaced.
And who would you think of, for such a task?
I know, I should not tolerate his impertinence.
Then why?
Because he is not afraid of me.
Where can I meet this man?
Immediately.
You lied! You cheated! We're way past 750 leagues!
Six days ago, yes.
You must be mad...!
We have to keep the hopes of these men alive!
We're on the verge of a mutiny, Colon!
You think I don't know that?
We're lost!
The land is there. I know it!
You don't know anything! Listen Colon, these are my ships, right? So I'm telling you we're turning back!
And then what? Half of the water has gone, the rest is nearly putrid! You know that!
Jesus Maria! I should have never listened to you!
You never did. You did all the talking for both of us, remember?
You bloody...
Pinzon, Pinzon... All we can do now is go forward! Think about that!
You tell that to them!
You're right. Let the men decide.
Due west, Captain Mendez. And may God be with us...
God be with us admiral.
Well... It's the men, Sir. They wonder how you know our position. We've lost sight from land days ago...
And what do you think Mendez?
Well, I surely know what a quadrant is! But I've never seen it used at night before.
Come over here.
What do you read?
Twenty eight.
What's he doing?
He's drawing an isthmus... He's saying we're on an isthmus.
We can't be.
And you say this is an Indian vice? By God! I don't see any kind of pleasure that would make this a sin.
The Indians have no such word, Don Moxica.
We lost cousins, friends. We will wash this in blood.
If you want to keep your head on your shoulders, you'll do as I say.
You want a war? Fine. We are a thousand. They outnumber us by ten! Who will you kill? Which tribe?
We don't need to know.
We came here to stay! To build! Not to start a crusade. In this forest, there is enough danger to sweep us away in days! So we will be brave and swallow our grief. And in the name of those who died, we will accomplish what we came for.
We can't raise the wheel without it.
My horse doesn't work.
Don Moxica  we all have to work.
You did not hear me, Don Colon. Not my horse.
In one act of brutality, you have created chaos. Tribes who were fighting each other are now joining forces against us! All that because of your criminal savagery!
Savagery is what monkeys understand.
You'll be held in detention, deprived of your privileges and possessions. Until you are returned to Spain where you will be judged. Have you anything to say?
You will regret this.
I should not even be listening to you, since my council said no. But Santangel tells me you are a man of honor and sincerity... And Sanchez, that you are not a fool.
No more than the woman who said she would take Granada from the Moors.
The ocean is uncrossable?
What did they say about Granada before today?
That she was impregnable.
I cannot ignore the verdict of my council.
Surely you can do anything you want.
May I speak freely?
You show no inclination to speak otherwise!
I know what I see. I see someone who doesn't accept the world as it is. Who's not afraid. I see a women who thinks... "What if?"...
A woman?
How old are you, Senor Colon?
Thirty seven, Your Majesty... And you?
Do they have such thoughts?
They come and go as naked as the day God created them...
But without your brothers. Nor are you to return to Santo Domingo or any of the other colonies. You may explore the continent.
Thank you.
There is one thing I'd like to understand... Why do you want to go back, after all this?
Your Majesty  some men are content to read about things. I must see them with my own eyes. I cannot be other than I am.
Diego is a bright boy  a pleasure to teach  but so serious... Brothers should be raised together, Colon. Even brothers from different mothers...
Father, I am doing what I think is the best for him. And he has the teacher I would have chosen for myself.
God... That's in a week!
That's what it says.
How did you manage it?
With some difficulty. I had to promise them you were not a total fool.
Why do you wish to sail west?
To open a new route to Asia. At the moment there are only two ways of reaching it...
How can you be so certain? The Ocean is said to be infinite.
Ignorance! I believe the Indies are no more than 750 leagues west of the Canary Islands.
How can you be so certain?
The calculations of Toscanelli Marin de Tyr, Esdras...
Esdras is a Jew.
So was Christ!
Two minutes... and already you're a dead man. Don't let passion overwhelm you, Colon.
I'll try to remember that, Marchena...
Father Marchena!
Passion is something one cannot control!
You get so carried away when you are being contradicted!
I've been contradicted all my life... Eternity!
Only God knows the meaning of such words, my son.
You mustn't give way to despair. You must wait.
Wait! I've waited seven years already! How much longer do you want me to wait?
If God intends you to go, then you will go.
Damn God!
Colon!
Damn all of you! You all set up theories based on what? You never leave the safety of your studies! Go out! Find out what the world is about and then tell me something I can listen to!
All of them! Just lies!
Colon! Don't!
In Nomine Patris et Filius, et Spiritus Sancti.
Forgive me, Father. For I have sinned.
I am listening, my son.
Father, I have betrayed my family. I betrayed my men. And I betrayed you.
What are you saying?
I lied. The journey will be longer than I said.
How long?
I am not sure... It could be twice the distance.
May God forgive you...! You must tell them! You must tell your men!
If I tell them, they won't follow me. You know that I am right, Father. You trust me...
My son, my son... Your certitudes are sometimes frightening... Christopher, you must speak to them. And if you don't I will.
You are bound by an oath, Father.
I believed in you...
Give me absolution.
I suppose we're both old men now.
You'll always be older than me, Father.
I have to disagree.
I knew you would.
New worlds create new people.
Oh? So you are a new man?
I don't know... I have the impression that I didn't change that much. I still can't accept the world as it is!
Say not here! Cuba!
What is it? A tribe? An island?
Island. Far.
You come! You speak first!
Tell the Chief we thank him.
Chief knows.
Tell him his country is very beautiful. Tell him we are leaving men here  to build a fort.
Chief says  how many?
Thousands.
Why?
To bring the word of God.
Chief says  he has a God.
... and also to bring medicine.
Chief says...
He has medicine. Tell him we admire his people.
We will work with his people. We want peace. Ask the Chief if he understands?
He understands.
Ask him if he will help.
You have to find them, Utapan. Look what they did!
You did the same to your God!
Utapan, won't you speak to me? You used to know how to speak to me.
You never learned how to speak my language.
No...
No?
NO...! I have waited too long, fought too hard. Now you expect me to take all the risks while you take the profit! No... I will not be your servant!
I remind you, Senor Colon, that you are in no position to bargain with me.
I'm not bargaining!
Then you are too ambitious.
And were you never ambitious, Excellency? Or is ambition only a virtue among the nobles, a fault for the rest of us?
If you won't accept our proposal, we'll simply find someone who will.
They don't see sin in their nakedness. They live according to nature, in a never ending summer. The islands are covered with trees, filled with blossoms and fruits. And...
Forgive me, Don Colon. But what about gold?
You defend yourself admirably...
... for a commoner?
But we do have a lack of notaries. You should contact my administration.
Don Bobadilla is already a judge, my Dear Don Cristobal.
Good! We are also in need of judges. Except there are no thieves!
You seem to have a special talent for making friends.
What...? Do I have so many already?
To rise so high, in so short a time, is a dangerous occupation. A little hypocrisy goes a long way.
All I have to do is call the guards.
Call them.
I am not afraid of you. You are nothing but a dreamer.
Look out of that window.
What do you see?
Roofs... towers, palaces... spires...
All of them created by people like me.
I want to go with you!
There'll be a time.
You promise? Do you swear on St. Christopher...?
Do you swear on all the Holy Saints in heaven?
Yes... Yes, I do... On all of them!
I have to explore the mainland.
This time with me!
How are you feeling, Fernando?
Not bad.
Father...
There must be a passage to that other ocean.
What are you listening to?
I am not listening, Father. But I can't help hearing.
What does he say?
He asks when he can come to visit you. He left his address.
He never had one... except aboard my ships!
I want you to tell me everything you remember, Father. From the beginning. Everything.
Really? God... I wouldn't know where to start... and yet...
Tell me the first thing that comes to your mind.
I understand that you will soon be appointing Governors for the islands? Is it not so?
Forgive me, Don Bobadilla  those positions have already been taken.
May I ask by whom?
Bartolome and Giacomo Colon.
Don Alonso de Bobadilla.
Yes... I remember...
My letters of appointment.
Appointment to what?
Viceroy of the West Indies.
Congratulations. Then I am free to search for the mainland.
How far from here?
I am not a seaman. But I heard it is no more than a week at sea. I hope you are not too disappointed.
How could I be? The mainland has been found. Exactly as I said it would.
I am afraid this is not the worst news.
I could be gone for years.
I know.
I haven't given you much of a life.
Well... that's true. I have a child by a man who won't marry me! Who's always leaving...
Are we going to argue?
I'd love to argue with you sometimes. But you're never here!
Perhaps I was never meant to live with a woman...
I find that hard to believe.
She said yes.
Thank God...
I'm not asking you to swear to anything.
I don't want you to wait for me.
That's something you can't decide.
Beatrix, I want to ask you something.
You don't usually ask.
I can arrange for the Queen to take Fernando and Diego into her service.
God... you're so beautiful! I can't believe no other man has ever taken you away from me...
They tried... but I didn't let them.
They took everything...
Not everything... Do you think I care? I'm a free man again. Riches don't make a man rich, they only make him busier...
Can't you stay with us a little?
I am busy inside.
What is it, now? Tell me...
I can't keep my eyes off you. I would like to catch up with all the moments I didn't spend with you.
The State has some reason to be interested in this man's proposition, Your Eminence...
The Judgment is ours!
Naturally. But I would really deplore the loss of such a potential opportunity for Spain for a... dispute over a point of geography.
He is a mercenary! Did he not already try to convince the King of Portugal of his absurd notions?
Indeed. The world is full of mercenaries  and states often make use of them, when it benefits them. My only concern is the welfare and prosperity of Spain.
It won't be easy to get rid of your prophet now, Don Sanchez.
On the contrary, Your Eminence. It seems to me the man is preparing his own cross.
You can see for yourself.
What a tragedy... what a waste of a life...
A waste...? Let me tell you something, Arojaz. If your name, or mine, is ever remembered  it will only be because of his.
You say Asia can be found by sailing west?
Yes, your Eminence. The voyage should not take more than six or seven weeks.
Unfortunately, Don Colon, that is precisely where our opinions differ... Are you familiar with the work of Aristotle? Erathostene? Ptolemeus?
I am, Your Eminence
Then you cannot ignore that according to their calculations, the circumference of the Earth is approximately... 22,000 leagues or more. Which makes the ocean... uncrossable.
Senor Colon, an experienced captain such as yourself will understand our concern with the crew. I am not willing to have on my conscience the loss of men who would have relied upon our judgment.
Excellency, you are right.
Your Eminence, there is only one way to settle the matter. And that is to make the journey. I am ready to risk my life to prove it possible.
Your life, and that of others!
If they agree to follow me, yes.
Trade, Your Excellency. According to Marco Polo, the Kingdom of China is one of the richest of the world. Even the meanest buildings are roofed with gold.
Is that all that interests you? Gold?
No. The Portuguese have already discovered blackskinned people. I, too, will find other populations  and bring them to the word of God.
If God intended our proximity to Asia, do you believe he would have waited for you to show it to the world?
Did He not choose a carpenter's son to reveal Himself to the world?
Don't you realize your words could be considered heretical?
Blind faith is what I consider heresy!
Asia can be found to the west  and I will prove it.
IFGODWILLSIT!
I never seen heat like this! Not even in Las Minas!
The water's going putrid in the barrels.
You'll be drinking your own piss... For the glory of Spain... and Admiral Colon...! Bastard!
What are you listening to, chicken ass?
Ah, leave him alone. He's doing no harm.
With a face like that? I don't want you looking at me. You hear?
He's the devil's child...
We'll all go crazy...
We should have seen land.
We left three weeks ago, Alonso. Can't be that near.
Can't be that far, I say. Also, I don't like the smell of the sea around here. Smells like a cunt. Bad sign...
In the microwave.
Make anyone cry today?
What's a synonym for throbbing?
Sarah Lawrence is on the other side of the country.
Jesus! Can a man even grab a sandwich before you women start dilating?
Tumescent!
You're not helping.
Would you rather be ravished by a pirate or a British rear admiral?
Pirate  no question.
They'll dance, they'll kiss, they'll come home. Let her go.
Kissing? Is that what you think happens? Kissing isn't what keeps me up to my elbows in placenta all day.
What do you wanna watch? We've got crap, crap, crap or crap
Dr. Ruth?
Have a great time, honey!
But  who  what ?
What just happened?
Your daughters went to the prom.
Did I have anything to say about it?
Absolutely not.
That ' s what I thought
I missed you.
It says here you exposed yourself to a group of freshmen girls.
It was a bratwurst. I was eating lunch.
With the teeth of your zipper?
I don't understand, Patrick. You haven't done anything asinine this week. Are you not feeling well?
Touch of the flu.
I'm at a loss, then. What should we talk about? Your year of absence?
Why don't we discuss your driving need to be a hemorrhoid?
What's to discuss?
You weren't abused, you aren't stupid, and as far as I can tell, you're only slightly psychotic  so why is it that you're such a fuckup?
Well, you know  there's the prestige of the job title... and the benefits package is pretty good...
You're completely demented.
See you next week!
Say it
What?
Whatever the hell it is you're standin' there waitin' to say.
What plan?
The situation is, my man Cameron here has a major jones for Bianca Stratford.
What is it with this chick? She have three tits?
I think I speak correctly when I say that Cameron's love is pure. Purer than say  Joey Dorsey's.
Dorsey can plow whoever he wants. I'm just in this for the cash.
That's where we can help you. With Kat.
So Dorsey can get the girl?
Patrick, Pat, you're not looking at the big picture. Joey's just a pawn. We set this whole thing up so Cameron can get the girl.
You two are gonna help me tame the wild beast?
We're your guys.
What?!
Good enough.
Are you telling me I'm a  "nonsmoker"?
Just for now.
Ever been to Club Skunk?
Yeah.
I prefer to think of it simply as an alternative to what the law allows.
I'm likin' you guys better
So you got cozy with she who stings?
No  I've got a sweetpayin' job that I'm about to lose.
You were right. She's still pissed.
Sweet love, renew thy force!
Man  don't say shit like that to me. People can hear you.
Hey there. Tired of breathing?
Hi.
Cool pictures. You a fan?
Yeah. I guess.
You think?
Oh yeah.
Macbeth, right?
Right.
Kat a fan, too?
Yeah...
Katarina Stratford. My, my. You've been terrorizing Ms. Blaise again.
Expressing my opinion is not a terrorist action.
Well, yes, compared to your other choices of expression this year, today's events are quite mild. By the way, Bobby Rictor's gonad retrieval operation went quite well, in case you're interested.
I still maintain that he kicked himself in the balls. I was merely a spectator.
The point is Kat  people perceive you as somewhat ...
Tempestuous?
No ... I believe "heinous bitch" is the term used most often.
Am I supposed to feel better? Like, right now? Or do I have some time to think about it?
Just smack her now.
I know.
I thought we decided you were going to school here. At U of 0.
You decided.
This from someone whose diary is devoted to favorite grooming tips?
Enough!
My insurance does not cover PMS
Then tell them I had a seizure.
Is this about Sarah Lawrence? You punishing me?
I thought you were punishing me.
Why can't we agree on this?
Because you're making decisions for me.
As a parent, that's my right
So what I want doesn't matter?
You're eighteen. You don't know what you want. You won't know until you're fortyfive and you don't have it.
I want to go to an East Coast school! I want you to trust me to make my own choices. I want 
Was that your sister?
Yeah. She left with some bikers Big ones. Full of sperm.
Funny.
I don't understand the allure of dehydrated food. Is this something I should be hip to?
No, Daddy.
So tell me about this dance. Was it fun?
Parts of it.
Which parts?
The part where Bianca beat the hell out of some guy.
Bianca did what?
What's the matter? Upset that I rubbed off on her?
No  impressed.
You know, fathers don't like to admit that their daughters are capable of running their own lives. It means we've become spectators. Bianca still lets me play a few innings. You've had me on the bleachers for years. When you go to Sarah Lawrence, I won't even be able to watch the game.
When I go?
Oh, Christ. Don't tell me you've changed your mind. I already sent 'em a check.
I mean Woman. How ya doin'?
Sweating like a pig, actually. And yourself?
There's a way to get a guy's attention.
My mission in life.
Pick you up Friday, then
Oh, right. Friday.
The night I take you to places you've never been before. And back.
Like where? The 7Eleven on Burnside? Do you even know my name, screwboy?
I know a lot more than that
You hate me don't you?
I don't really think you warrant that strong an emotion.
Then say you'll spend Dollar Night at the track with me.
And why would I do that?
Come on  the ponies, the flat beer, you with money in your eyes, me with my hand on your ass...
You  covered in my vomit.
Seventhirty?
Are you following me?
I was in the laundromat. I saw your car. Thought I'd say hi.
Hi
You're not a big talker, are you?
Depends on the topic. My fenders don't really whip me into a verbal frenzy.
hey. Great show, huh?
KAT +++$+++
Excuse me?
That's what you want, isn't it?
Do you mind? You're sort of ruining it for me.
You know, these guys are no Bikini Kill or The Raincoats, but they're right up there.
You know who The Raincoats are?
Why, don't you?
What's this?
"I'm getting trashed, man." Isn't that what you're supposed to do at a party?
I say, do what you wanna do.
Funny, you're the only one
Okay?
I'm fine. I'm
You're not okay.
I just need to lie down for awhile
Uh, uh. You lie down and you'll go to sleep
I know, just let me sleep
What if you have a concussion? My dog went to sleep with a concussion and woke up a vegetable. Not that I could tell the difference...
This is so patronizing.
Leave it to you to use big words when you're shitfaced.
Why 're you doing this?
I told you
You don't care if I die
Sure, I do
Why?
Because then I'd have to start taking out girls who like me.
Like you could find one
See that? Who needs affection when I've got blind hatred?
Just let me sit down.
Why'd you let him get to you?
Who?
Dorsey.
I hate him.
I know. It'd have to be a pretty big deal to get you to mainline tequila. You don't seem like the type.
Hey man. . . You don ' t think I can be "cool"? You don't think I can be "laid back" like everyone else?
I thought you were above all that
You know what they say
Kat! Wake up!
What?
And I'm in control of it.
But it's Gigglepuss  I know you like them. I saw you there.
When you were gone last year  where were you?
Busy
Were you in jail?
Maybe.
No, you weren't
Then why'd you ask?
Why'd you lie?
I should do this.
Do what?
This.
Start a band?
My father wouldn't approve of that that
You don't strike me as the type that would ask permission.
Oh, so now you think you know me?
I'm gettin' there
So what ' s up with your dad? He a pain in the ass?
He just wants me to be someone I'm not.
Who?
BIANCA
No offense, but you're sister is without. I know everyone likes her and all, but ...
Excuse me, have you seen The Feminine Mystique? I lost my copy.
What are you doing here?
I heard there was a poetry reading.
You 're so 
Pleasant?
Wholesome.
Unwelcome.
Unwelcome? I guess someone still has her panties in a twist.
Don't for one minute think that you had any effect whatsoever on my panties.
So what did I have an effect on ?
Other than my upchuck reflex? Nothing.
He left! I sprung the dickhead and he cruised on me.
Look up, sunshine
I guess I never told you I'm afraid of heights.
C'mon. It's not that bad
Try lookin' at it from this angle
Put your right foot there 
Forget it. I'm stayin'.
You want me to climb up and show you how to get down?
Maybe.
The Partridge Family?
I figured it had to be something ridiculous to win your respect. And piss you off.
Good call.
So how'd you get Chapin to look the other way?
I dazzled him with my wit
A soft side? Who knew?
Yeah, well, don't let it get out
So what's your excuse?
Acting the way we do.
Yes
I don't like to do what people expect. Then they expect it all the time and they get disappointed when you change.
So if you disappoint them from the start, you're covered?
Something like that
Then you screwed up
How?
You never disappointed me.
You up for it?
For. . . ?
State trooper?
Fallacy.
The duck?
Hearsay.
I know the porn career's a lie.
Tell me something true.
I hate peas.
No  something real. Something no one else knows.
You're sweet. And sexy. And completely hot for me.
What?
No one else knows
You're amazingly selfassured. Has anyone ever told you that?
Go to the prom with me
Is that a request or a command?
You know what I mean
No.
No what?
No, I won't go with you
Why not?
Because I don't want to. It's a stupid tradition.
Create a little drama? Start a new rumor? What?
So I have to have a motive to be with you?
You tell me.
You need therapy. Has anyone ever told you that?
Answer the question, Patrick
Nothing! There's nothing in it for me. Just the pleasure of your company.
How'd you get a tux at the last minute?
It's Scurvy's. His date got convicted. Where'd you get the dress?
It's just something I had. You know
Oh huh
Look, I'm  sorry  that I questioned your motives. I was wrong.
My grandmother's .
What?
That's where I was last year. She'd never lived alone  my grandfather died  I stayed with her. I wasn't in jail, I don't know Marilyn Manson, and I've never slept with a Spice Girl. I spent a year sitting next to my grandma on the couch watching Wheel of Fortune. End of story.
That ' s completely adorable!
It gets worse  you still have your freshman yearbook?
Wait I...
You were paid to take me out! By  the one person I truly hate. I knew it was a setup!
It wasn't like that.
Really? What was it like? A down payment now, then a bonus for sleeping with me?
I didn't care about the money.
A Fender Strat. You bought this?
I thought you could use it. When you start your band.
Besides, I had some extra cash. Some asshole paid me to take out a really great girl.
Is that right?
Yeah, but then I fucked up. I fell for her.
Why is my veggie burger the only burnt object on this grill?
Because I like to torture you.
Oh, Bianca? Can you get me my freshman yearbook?
Don ' t you even dare. . .
Who's that?
Patrick Verona Random skid.
That's Pat Verona? The one who was gone for a year? I heard he was doing porn movies.
I'm sure he's completely incapable of doing anything that interesting.
He always look so
Block E?
Mandella, eat. Starving yourself is a very slow way to die.
Just a little.
What's this?
An attempted slit.
I realize that the men of this fine institution are severely lacking, but killing yourself so you can be with William Shakespeare is beyond the scope of normal teenage obsessions. You're venturing far past daytime talk show fodder and entering the world of those who need very expensive therapy.
But imagine the things he'd say during sex.
The people at this school are so incredibly foul.
You could always go with me. I'm sure William has some friends.
So he has this huge raging fit about Sarah Lawrence and insists that I go to his maledominated, puking frat boy, number one golf team school. I have no say at all.
William would never have gone to a state school.
William didn't even go to high school
That's never been proven
Neither has his heterosexuality.
I appreciate your efforts toward a speedy death, but I'm consuming. Do you mind?
Does it matter?
If I was Bianca, it would be, "Any school you want, precious. Don't forget your tiara."
You think this'll work?
No fear.
What'd he say?
Who cares?
You went to the party? I thought we were officially opposed to suburban social activity.
I didn't have a choice.
You didn't have a choice? Where's Kat and what have you done with her?
I did Bianca a favor and it backfired.
You didn't
I got drunk. I puked. I got rejected. It was big fun.
Can you even imagine? Who the hell would go to this a bastion of commercial excess?
Well, I guess we're not, since we don't have dates .
Listen to you! You sound like Betty, all pissed off because Archie is taking Veronica.
Okay, okay, we won't go. It's not like I have a dress anyway
You ' re looking at this from the wrong perspective. We're making a statement.
Oh, good. Something new and different for us.
Have you seen him?
Who?
William  he asked me to meet him here.
Oh, honey  tell me we haven't' progressed to fullon hallucinations.
Hey.
Are you lost?
Nope  just came by to chat
We don't chat.
Well, actually, I thought I'd run an idea by you. You know, just to see if you're interested.
We're not.
But she can't go out with you because her sister is this insane head case and no one will go out with her. right?
Does this conversation have a purpose?
So what you need to do is recruit a guy who'll go out with her. Someone who's up for the job.
I hear you're helpin' Verona.
Uh, yeah. We're old friend*
You and Verona?
What? We took bathes together when we were kids.
You better not fuck this up. I'm heavily invested.
Hey  it's all for the higher good right?
Yeah
What do you think?
Two legs, nice rack...
Yeah, whatever. I want you to go out with her.
Sure, Sparky. I'll get right on it.
You just said
You need money to take a girl out
But you'd go out with her if you had the cake?
You got it, Verona. I pick up the tab, you do the honors.
You're gonna pay me to take out some girl?
I can't date her sister until that one gets a boyfriend. And that's the catch. She doesn't want a boyfriend.
How much?
I can't take a girl like that out on twenty bucks.
Fine, thirty.
Take it or leave it. This isn't a negotiation.
Fifty, and you've got your man.
When I shell out fifty, I expect results.
I'm on it
Watching the bitch trash my car doesn't count as a date.
I got her under control. She just acts crazed in public to keep up the image.
I just upped my price
What?
A hundred bucks a date.
Forget it.
Forget her sister, then.
It's about time.
A deal's a deal.
How'd you do it?
Do what?
Get her to act like a human
I don't know, Dorsey. ..the limo.the flowers. Another hundred for the tux 
Enough with the Barbie n' Ken shit. I know.
The vintage look is over, Kat. Haven't you been reading your Sassy?
Yeah, and I noticed the only part of you featured in your big Kmart spread was your elbow. Tough break.
They're running the rest of me next month.
Hey  do you mind?
Not at all
Where ya goin?
Away.
Your sister here?
Leave my sister alone.
And why would I do that?
And he means that strictly in a non prisonmovie type of way.
Yeah  we'll see.
What've you got for me?
I've retrieved certain pieces of information on Miss Katarina Stratford I think you'll find helpful.
Okay  Likes: Thai food, feminist prose, and "angry, stinky girl music of the indierock persuasion".
So what does that give me? I'm supposed to buy her some noodles and a book and sit around listening to chicks who can't play their instruments?
Gigglepuss is playing there tomorrow night.
Don't make me do it, man
Cameron, I'm a little busy
It's off. The whole thing.
What 're you talking about?
She's partial to Joey, not me
Cameron  do you like the girl?
Sure
Then, go get her
What'd you do to her?
I don ' t know. I decided not to nail her when she was too drunk to remember it.
She hates you with the fire of a thousand suns . That's a direct quote
She just needs time to cool off I'll give it a day.
You makin' any headway?
She kissed me.
Where?
What's the worst?
You get the girl.
You the new guy?
So they tell me...
C'mon. I'm supposed to give you the tour.
So  which Dakota you from?
North, actually. How'd you ?
I was kidding. People actually live there?
Yeah. A couple. We're outnumbered by the cows, though.
How many people were in your old school?
Thirtytwo.
Get out!
How many people go here?
Couple thousand. Most of them evil
That I'm used to.
Yeah, but these guys have never seen a horse. They just jack off to Clint Eastwood.
That girl  I 
You burn, you pine, you perish?
Who is she?
Bianca Stratford. Sophomore. Don't even think about it
Why not?
I could start with your haircut, but it doesn't matter. She's not allowed to date until her older sister does. And that's an impossibility.
Why do girls like that always like guys like that?
Because they're bred to. Their mothers liked guys like that, and their grandmothers before them. Their gene pool is rarely diluted.
He always have that shiteating grin?
Joey Dorsey? Permashitgrin. I wish I could say he's a moron, but he's number twelve in the class. And a model. Mostly regional stuff, but he's rumored to have a big tube sock ad coming out.
You know French?
Sure do ... my Mom's from Canada
Guess who just signed up for a tutor?
You mean I'd get a chance to talk to her?
You could consecrate with her, my friend.
Yeah, just a minor encounter with the shrew.
That's her? Bianca's sister?
The mewling, rampalian wretch herself.
I teach her French, get to know her, dazzle her with charm and she falls in love with me.
Unlikely, but even so, she still can't go out with you. So what's the point?
What about him?
You wanna go out with him?
What makes you think he'll do it?
He seems like he thrives on danger
No kidding. He's a criminal. I heard he lit a state trooper on fire. He just got out of Alcatraz...
They always let felons sit in on Honors Biology?
I'm serious, man, he's whacked. He sold his own liver on the black market so he could buy new speakers.
Forget his reputation. Do you think we've got a plan or not?
Did she actually say she'd go out with you?
That's what I just said
You know, if you do go out with Bianca, you'd be set. You'd outrank everyone. Strictly Alist. With me by your side.
I thought you hated those people.
Hey  I've gotta have a few clients when I get to Wall Street.
You got him involved?
Like we had a choice? Besides  when you let the enemy think he's orchestrating the battle, you're in a position of power. We let him pretend he's calling the shots, and while he's busy setting up the plan, you have time to woo Bianca.
This is it. A golden opportunity. Patrick can ask Katarina to the party.
In that case, we'll need to make it a schoolwide blow out.
Will Bogey get bent?
Are you kidding? He'll piss himself with joy. He's the ultimate kiss ass.
Number one. She hates smokers
It's a lung cancer issue
Her favorite uncle
Dead at fortyone.
He's pretty!
Okay! I wasn't sure
Assail your ears for one night.
It's her favorite band.
You told me that part already.
Hell, I've just been going over the whole thing in my head and 
Extremely unfortunate maneuver.
The hell is that? What kind of 'guy just picks up a girl and carries her away while you're talking to her?
Buttholus extremus. But hey, you're making progress.
No, I ' m not.
You humiliated the woman! Sacrifice yourself on the altar of dignity and even the score.
Best case scenario, you're back on the payroll for awhile.
Always a pleasure, Brucie.
Didn't have you pegged for a Gigglepuss fan. Aren't they a little too preteen bellybutton ring for you?
Fan of a fan. You see a couple of minors come in?
Never
Padua girls. One tall, decent body. The other one kinda short and undersexed?
Just sent 'em through.
Now don't get upset. Daddy, but there's this boy... and I think he might ask...
No! You're not dating until your sister starts dating. End of discussion.
What if she never starts dating?
Then neither will you. And I'll get to sleep at night.
But it's not fair  she's a mutant, Daddy!
But she doesn't want to date.
Exactly my point
Daddy, I 
And where're you going?
If you must know, we were attempting to go to a small study group of friends.
Otherwise known as an orgy?
It's just a party. Daddy, but I knew you'd forbid me to go since "Gloria Steinem" over there isn't going 
Daddy, people expect me to be there!
If Kat's not going, you're not going.
Oh, God. It's starting.
It's just a party. Daddy.
Wear the belly before you go.
Daddy, no!
Just for a minute
Promise me you won't talk to any boys unless your sister is present.
Why?
Because she'll scare them away.
Daddy, I want to discuss the prom with you. It's tomorrow night 
The prom? Kat has a date?
No, but
It's that hot rod Joey, right? That ' s who you want me to bend my rules for?
He's not a "hot rod". Whatever that is.
You're not going unless your sister goes. End of story.
Fine. I see that I'm a prisoner in my own house. I'm not a daughter. I'm a possession!
I'm missing something.
I have a date, Daddy. And he ' s not a captain of oppression like some men we know.
Where've you been?
Nowhere... Hi, Daddy.
I have the potential to smack the crap out of you if you don't get out of my way.
Can you at least start wearing a bra?
Oh my God, does this mean you're becoming normal?
It means that Gigglepuss is playing at Club Skunk and we're going.
Oh, I thought you might have a date I don't know why I'm bothering to ask, but are you going to Bogey Lowenstein's party Saturday night?
What do you think?
I think you're a freak. I think you do this to torture me. And I think you suck.
You're ruining my life' Because you won't be normal, I can't be normal.
What's normal?
Bogey Lowenstein's party is normal, but you're too busy listening to Bitches Who Need Prozac to know that.
Can't you forget for just one night that you're completely wretched?
At least I'm not a clouted fen sucked hedgepig.
Like I'm supposed to know what that even means.
It's Shakespeare. Maybe you've heard of him?
Yeah, he's your freak friend Mandella's boyfriend. I guess since I'm not allowed to go out, I should obsess over a dead guy, too.
You are so completely unbalanced.
Can we go now?
Bianca, I need to talk to you  I need to tell you 
I really don't think I need any social advice from you right now.
I don't get you. You act like you're too good for any of this, and then you go totally apeshit when you get here.
You're welcome.
Listen, I know you hate having to sit home because I'm not Susie High School.
Like you care.
I do care. But I'm a firm believer in doing something for your own reasons, not someone else ' s .
I wish I had that luxury. I'm the only sophomore that got asked to the prom and I can't go, because you won ' t.
Joey never told you we went out, did he?
What?
In 9th. For a month
Why?
He was, like, a total babe
But you hate Joey
Now I do. Back then, was a different story.
As in...
He said everyone was doing it. So I did it.
You did what?
Just once. Afterwards, I told him I didn't want to anymore. I wasn't ready. He got pissed. Then he broke up with me.
But
After that, I swore I'd never do anything just because "everyone else" was doing it. And I haven't since. Except for Bogey's party, and my stunning gastrointestinal display 
Why didn't you tell me?
I wanted to let you make up your own mind about him.
No. you didn't! If you really thought I could make my own decisions, you would've let me go out with him instead of helping Daddy hold me hostage.
That's not
I'm not stupid enough to repeat your mistakes.
I guess I thought I was protecting you.
God, you're just like him! Just keep me locked away in the dark, so I can't experience anything for myself
Not all experiences are good, Bianca. You can't always trust the people you want to.
I guess I'll never know, will I?
You looked beautiful last night, you know.
So did you
Let go!
You set me up.
I just wanted 
What? To completely damage me? To send me to therapy forever? What?
No! I just wanted
Is that woman a complete fruitloop or is it just me?
It's just you.
Patrick  is that a.
Perm?
It's more
Expensive?
Exactly So, you going to Bogey Lowenbrau's thing on Saturday?
Hopefully.
So yeah, I've got the Sears catalog thing going  and the tube sock gig " that's gonna be huge. And then I'm up for an ad for Queen Harry next week.
Queen Harry?
It's a gay cruise line, but I'll be, like, wearing a uniform and stuff.
Neat...
My agent says I've got a good shot at being the Prada guy next year.
Hey, sweet cheeks.
Hi, Joey.
You're concentrating awfully hard considering it's gym class.
Listen, I want to talk to you about the prom.
You know the deal. I can ' t go if Kat doesn't go 
Did you change your hair?
No.
You might wanna think about it
Where did he go? He was just here.
Who?
Joey.
Great
Would you mind getting me a drink, Cameron?
He practically proposed when he found out we had the same dermatologist. I mean. Dr. Bonchowski is great an all, but he's not exactly relevant party conversation.
Is he oily or dry?
Combination. I don't know  I thought he'd be different. More of a gentleman...
Bianca, I don't think the highlights of dating Joey Dorsey are going to include dooropening and coatholding.
Sometimes I wonder if the guys we're supposed to want to go out with are the ones we actually want to go out with, you know?
All I know is  I'd give up my private line to go out with a guy like Joey.
I have to be home in twenty minutes.
I don't have to be home 'til two.
You think you ' re the only sophomore at the prom?
I did.
Can we make this quick? Roxanne Korrine and Andrew Barrett are having an incredibly horrendous public break up on the quad. Again.
Well, I thought we'd start with pronunciation, if that's okay with you.
Not the hacking and gagging and spitting part. Please.
Okay... then how 'bout we try out some French cuisine. Saturday? Night?
You're asking me out. That's so cute. What's your name again?
Forget it.
No, no, it's my fault  we didn't have a proper introduction 
Cameron.
The thing is, Cameron  I'm at the mercy of a particularly hideous breed of loser. My sister. I can't date until she does.
Seems like she could get a date easy enough...
Why?
Unsolved mystery. She used to be really popular when she started high school, then it was just like she got sick of it or something.
That's a shame.
Gosh, if only we could find Kat a boyfriend...
Let me see what I can do.
C'esc ma tete. This is my head
Right. See? You're ready for the quiz.
I don't want to know how to say that though. I want to know useful things. Like where the good stores are. How much does champagne cost? Stuff like Chat. I have never in my life had to point out my head to someone.
That's because it's such a nice one.
Forget French.
How is our little Find the Wench A Date plan progressing?
Well, there's someone I think might be 
There.
Where?
You got something on your mind?
I counted on you to help my cause. You and that thug are obviously failing. Aren't we ever going on our date?
You have my word. As a gentleman
You're sweet.
How do you get your hair to look like that?
Eber's Deep Conditioner every two days. And I never, ever use a blowdryer without the diffuser attachment.
Sure have.
I really, really, really wanna go, but I can't. Not unless my sister goes.
I'm workin' on it. But she doesn't seem to be goin' for him.
She's not a...
Lesbian? No. I found a picture of Jared Leto in one of her drawers, so I'm pretty sure she's not harboring samesex tendencies.
So that's the kind of guy she likes? Pretty ones?
Who knows? All I've ever heard her say is that she'd dip before dating a guy that smokes.
Hi.
Looks like things worked out tonight, huh?
You know Chastity?
I believe we share an art instructor
Have fun tonight?
Tons
I looked for you back at the party, but you always seemed to be "occupied".
I was?
You never wanted to go out with 'me, did you?
Well, no...
Then that's all you had to say.
But
You always been this selfish?
Then Guillermo says, "If you go any lighter, you're gonna look like an extra on 90210."
No...
do you listen to this crap?
What crap?
Me. This endless ...blonde babble. I'm like, boring myself.
Thank God! If I had to hear one more story about your coiffure...
I figured you'd get to the good stuff eventually.
What good stuff?
The "real you".
Like my fear of wearing pastels?
I'm kidding. You know how sometimes you just become this "persona"? And you don't know how to quit?
No
Okay  you're gonna need to learn how to lie.
Wow
Let's go.
She okay?
I hope so.
They do to!
They do not!
